the half ling book one in the fall of igneeria series kaylee soderburg copyright 2013 kaylee soderburg all rights reserved .
isbn 1492913731 isbn 13 978 1492913733 for my family , who encouraged me to never stop fighting for my dreams chapter 1 summer vacations supposed to be fun , right ?
i wish i had a better answer to that question .
starlings , new york is not the place youd expect much to happen .
its a small quiet town , the kind where everyone knows your name .
its a place where your parents wouldnt even care if you stayed out late biking with your friends .
only because everyone felt so safe , so comfy .
they dont know the half of it .
but i do .
i know it all and starlings is not the place where you want to be after dark .
the only reason why no one knows this is because jason , emily , seth and i have kept it that way .
i walked along the empty road alone , occasionally waving to passing kids on bikes .
my backpack was slung over my shoulder , filled with my writing books and sketchpads .
i kept my eyes on the shadowed road , watching my every step .
usually i was more aware of my surroundings , but today i was tired and didnt care if i rammed into a tree .
i kicked a rock into the grass .
the sun was starting to set , painting the sky in brilliant oranges and reds .
it slipped down the sky , allowing the first stars to peek out from behind the bright curtain .
the remaining light cast shadows over everything , creating the illusion that there was double of everything .
the world prepared to go into its hours of unreal silence that made it seem magical , and it really was .
my phone buzzed and i awoke from my trance .
i thumbed the keypad and opened the message seth had sent me .
it read whatcha doing ?
i flipped open the pad and wrote walking home .
i shoved it back in my pocket and continued walking .
the sun was almost gone and shadows were starting to appear behind everything .
i looked at my own shadow , that danced behind me .
the phone buzzed again as seth sent me a reply .
see anything ?
do you want me to meet you ?
i glanced at the nearby woods .
my ears heard nothing and i didnt see any movement but my hands shook slightly as i typed , nothing , im fine .
i didnt open his reply because i knew what it would say .
i already knew that it was strangely quiet .
maybe i could stay home and sleep one night .
or maybe i could finish a painting tonight and watch mom do origami .
i turned the corner , and my house came into view .
i started to climb the hill when i froze .
out of my left eye i saw the outline of a creature .
it was heading through the woods in the direction of my house .
i swore under my breath and took off for the woods .
my feet crunched on the fallen branches and leaves .
i could see the creature ahead of me .
i didnt have much time .
i placed my bag on the ground and crossed my legs .
i started to grab my phone but stopped .
i didnt need to tell the others , it was just one .
and if i was lucky , it would be an easy take down .
i closed my eyes and began my mental countdown .
the wind picked up around me , as if a wind current had just appeared out of nowhere .
5 my body started to feel hot , like i was being hugged by the sun .
i hated this part .
4 power surged through me as i was freed from my human self .
shivers ran down my spine .
3 i felt cold , like being dipped in ice water .
the breeze picked up even harder .
2 i was hollow and could probably see my own body if i opened my eyes .
but i could never get the courage to do that .
1 the wind died .
my body felt normal except it was different .
i opened my eyes and looked over to where i just had been or still was .
my human body slightly glowed as it sat in meditation under the tree .
it didnt move .
i could see the monster clearly now that i had stepped into its world .
it was hunched over , occasionally touching the ground with one of its curled front paws .
dark saliva dripped out of its mouth .
the beady black eyes made it no less scary .
i knew exactly what it is .
a thrasher !
a shiver ran down my spine .
thrashers were probably one of the most feral and nasty monsters ive ever encountered .
they sometimes travel alone or hunt in packs .
theyre awful in packs , extremely hard to take out without their knowledge of your presence .
i placed an arrow in my bow , and aimed for the head .
i couldnt let the creature reach my house .
i pulled back the string , and then stopped .
i couldnt take out one of these like , this unless i set it on fire .
but emily wasnt here .
i could take it out with a few arrows but its best to kill thrashers before they realize youre there .
instead i lowered my bow and slowly crept up to it , until i could see the hideous claws on its hands and the hatred in its eyes .
thrashers hate everything and sometimes i wonder how they tolerate each other .
i aimed for the head again and released the arrow .
it whizzed silently into the thrasher and it howled in pain as the arrow dug into its fur .
it whirled around , facing me .
a low growl sounded in its throat and it charged .
i ducked as it slashed my side and i winced .
my shirt slowly turned blue from the trickling wound .
yes , blue , my blood is blue .
it turned back around and threw its self at me .
this time i was prepared .
i pulled out my hunting knife out just as he landed on me .
he yelped and went limp .
i pushed him off and grabbed my fallen bow , the familiar feeling of the wood boosting my confidence .
i turned back around and started back where i left off , but then a body slammed into me .
i just had enough time to see the thrasher , before the fur and dirt filled my vision .
i spit out the clump of wiry hair that had somehow found its way into my gasping mouth .
i felt a searing pain as the thrasher raked my left leg .
i closed my eyes against the pain , trying to focus myself against the dull throb in my shin .
then the thrasher went limp against me .
it was hauled off of my body and i found myself looking up into the face of a very unhappy dark blue haired boy .
his sword was gripped tightly in his clenched fingers and a look of amusement , or many it was anger , shone on his face .
i swallowed and collected my weapons from the ground , not daring to look at my leg .
hi seth , this is unexpected .
seth glared at me and pulled me up .
he was definitely angry at me .
i tried to place weight on my leg but winced as pain shot up it .
he kicked the dead thrasher one more time before sheathing his sword .
you know better jazell then to take on a monster by yourself .
you never know what kind it is until you have already changed , he scolded me and i could feel a lecture coming .
i looked down at leg .
claw marks ran up my shin and my blue blood was soaking my pants .
i had to seth it was heading for my house .
that made me panic a bit .
i dont care jazell if i hadnt been here i would have found you shredded to small pieces .
all you had to do was send me a quick text and i would have showed up to help .
but you didnt .
i sighed in annoyance , not in the mood for this right now .
seth was like this sometimes , strict and serious , but he was normally a jokester .
hes strict on the fact that we attack in groups , mostly for the reason that he didnt want anything to happen to our group .
i started to slowly limp back to my body but seth just disappeared from my side .
he has this annoying skill to be able to just return to his body without having to be near it , which wasnt fair when he wasnt the one injured .
i , however , had to stiffly make my way to my dormant human body .
once i was near it , i closed my eyes and the wind picked back up .
my body felt hot and cold simultaneously as i returned .
i reopened my eyes and stood up , stretched , and grabbed my bag .
my back sent a chorus of cracks cascading upwards as i straightened myself .
i raised the side of my shirt to find the thin , red scratch marks .
any injuries i get in my hunter form i have when i become human again , just not as severe .
i quickly ran my fingers over the darker , thicker marks on my shin , the skin sore and purple .
i quickly checked myself for any other injures i might have acquired from my tangle with the thrasher , but all i found was a bunch of bruises .
seth seemed to have disappeared , so i trudged down the road to my house .
its cozy familiar blue paint and white shutters helped to relax me as i pushed open the door .
my house wasnt very big and fancy it was actually pretty plain but thats why i loved it .
it had two floors , with a fair sized kitchen and a mini living room .
my room was just up the stairs , and it beckoned to me even though i was more interested in dinner .
my mom was cooking in the kitchen and my dad was sitting at the kitchen table going through his usual paper work .
he looked up as i entered , pushing his glasses back up his face .
hi sweetheart , finally home ?
he asked giving me a warm smile .
i kissed his cheek and my moms before heading toward the stairs .
yup .
dinners ready in a few minutes , jazell !
my mom called as i climbed the stairs , eager to collapse on my bed for a few minutes .
got it !
i called back .
my room was painted a light green , with a bed shoved in the corner and a bookshelf overflowing with books .
i had a small desk to the left of my bed that was piled up high with homework and random drawings .
i threw my bag on my bed and took off my shoes .
then i headed back down stairs to help set the table .
my mom handed me some dishes and utensils .
i set a plate down in front of my dad .
he frowned and pointed to my scratched shin .
what happened ?
he asked , and studied my leg .
i tripped on a crack and scraped my leg .
i said flatly , the lie rolling off my tongue easily .
i placed my last dish down and sat in my chair .
dad chuckled .
youre so clumsy .
i wouldnt be surprised if you tripped on your own feet .
yup , thats me , clumsy .
i pulled my leg close to my body .
my parents had believed for a long time that i was a klutz .
that was the only way to explain the million of cuts and bruises i gained from fighting creatures .
the truth is that i have really great balance , which i had gained from so much fighting .
i was a little klutzy when i was small , so it was easy for my parents to believe i still was .
mom placed the food on the table .
dinner !
after dinner i went straight up stairs to go to sleep .
and hopefully my phone wouldnt stop me like it did most nights .
monsters loved to come out at night and cause trouble .
they never seem to rest , much to my annoyance .
i sighed and rolled over , burying my face in my pillow .
i managed to think about something other than creatures that go bump in the night as i drifted off to sleep .
in the morning i changed and ran down stairs and left a note saying i was going out to eat with jason , emily and seth .
it took me minutes to speed down to the small breakfast restaurant in town .
i chained up my bike and walked over to the plastic blue table my friends had occupied .
i slid in next to emily , who was talking about some book she had read recently .
jason , who sat next to her , was pretending to be fascinated by her rant .
emily stopped in mid sentence when she noticed me sitting beside her .
jazell , youre here !
she exclaimed .
is it true , did you take on a monster by yourself yesterday ?
i sighed , shooting a look at seth .
yes it is .
thanks tattle tale seth .
well you did and i thought the group had a right to know that .
seth said sharply .
how could you jazell ?
you could have gotten seriously hurt .
plus i bet all of us want a shot at them too .
she huffed and shook her head .
the light brown curls that framed her pretty face bounced around playfully .
im fine emily , seriously .
jason was silent .
he never talked much like emily , who was easily the most talkative , friendly person i knew .
jason was more of the silent , watching type , who said little but noticed much .
i traced in a puddle on the table , avoiding everyones eye contact as they stared at me .
emily patted my arm .
its okay .
we arent mad at you or anything .
right seth ?
she glared at him .
he shrugged .
i guess .
emily perked up .
you see , everyone makes mistakes .
seth grunted to himself .
emily rolled her eyes .
hey seth , its not like you havent done something stupid .
we all remember the swamp troll .
seth frowned and jason snickered .
seth punched his arm .
hey dont make me nag you about the time you almost took off my head with your throwing knifes .
jason stopped dead and narrowed his eyes .
it was an accident .
i didnt know youd run that way .
alright , we understand that weve all done stupid , foolish things .
so lets just add this accident to my list , okay ?
i said quickly before the two started something .
they nodded but shot each other smirks .
i sighed , wondering why those two buffoons had been granted this power along , with emily and me .
its not like they werent foolish enough already .
the day when it all changed was still a mystery to us .
a lot of things happened that didnt quite make sense .
the four of us were already best friends .
we were walking through the woods , rambling on about how halloween was almost here and that ms. stecher was still giving us too much homework .
then all of a sudden an invisible object slammed into me .
i shrieked and couldnt move .
it had me pinned to the ground .
seth ran forward and grabbed a branch to protect me .
it should have gone right through the air but it collided into something and snapped in half .
seth dropped it in amazement .
emily ran over to me but was plowed to the ground .
she screamed , spitting out dirt , twigs and leaves .
seth stood watching , terrified .
he didnt have a clue as what to do to fight these invisible creatures .
none of us did , at that time , because we didnt know what was going on .
the world was still a normal place to us at the time .
something grabbed seths legs and pulled him against a tree .
he kicked and punched but couldnt find the right place to hit his attacker .
hold on !
jason yelled .
i opened my mouth to say that we already were when he vanished .
dragged away was my guess .
my legs shot with pain .
i heard emily yell the first curse words ive heard her say in a while .
i spotted her red arm just before my body felt like fire .
i closed my eyes and blacked out .
i didnt really black out but thats what i thought at the time .
i opened my eyes to find i was sitting on the ground next to my sleeping body .
i saw emily sitting there , saying nothing for once .
something fell off my back and i picked it up .
it was a wooden bow , and when i reached behind my back i felt a quiver full of feathered arrows strapped there .
i ran a finger over the smooth , dark wood and turned to see seth crashing out of the woods .
i smirked at him and pointed at his head .
you have dark blue hair .
i giggled , not knowing why i was giggling after what had just happened to us a few minutes ago .
he frowned and pulled a piece or two out of his head .
his eyes widened , and i laughed at the shock on his face .
if we were dead , which was my best guess , why not poke fun at him ?
seth smiled at me .
well , yes but you have green hair .
its bright green , like neon green .
i shoved my hair in front of my face .
it was bright green all right .
i stood up and examined myself .
i was wearing light brown hunting boots and tight black pants made out of some sort of light cloth .
a thick woven jacket was shielding me from the october cold .
when i looked back at seth , i realized he had also made an outfit change .
he was wearing black leather boots and dark blue pants .
his top was a short , brown cloak with a hood and leather belt .
a beautiful steel sword with an ornamental hilt was swinging at his side from a woven sheath .
oh well , i guess i have green hair .
its not that bad .
i like green .
i rambled as i examined the short hunting knife that was resting in a small sheath on my hip .
i ran a finger over the blade before putting it back .
how seth and i had acquired such dangerous weapons was anyones guess .
i certainly had no clue .
i heard footsteps and turned to see emily running over .
she was wearing a close fitting , long robe .
it was a stunning deep blue with a trim of gold embroidery .
she had no weapons dangling from her body were visible from where i was standing .
i have pink hair !
isnt it cool ?
she spun around so we could take in all of its bubblegum pink color .
she looked at the bow slung over my shoulder and seths gleaming sword .
hey , i dont have anything cool and deadly .
why do you both get something like that and i didnt ?
its not like you can trust jazell with something sharp or dangerous .
hey !
we cant trust you either .
i pointed out , crossing my arms .
arming you is as scary as giving a kindergartener a knife .
she gasped .
yeah , well , im ignoring you now .
she huffed and turned around .
there you are !
jason exclaimed as he crashed out of the trees , panting .
his wavy hair was a deep red that framed his eyes but he didnt seem to have noticed its color change or to care .
he was wearing an all black layered tunic and pants with boots that looked as light as mine .
if i didnt know it was jason , i would have taken a huge step backwards at his assassin like appearance .
whats going on ?
he demanded , eyes flickering from each of us as he took in all of our strange appearances .
dont know jason , were as stumped as you .
i said .
he bit his lip and then smirked .
oh , i almost forgot .
look at this .
he gestured at his belt , grinning mischievously .
hanging there were a multitude of thin , dangerous looking knives .
he pulled up his sleeve so i could see another one strapped there .
cool , huh ?
emily had turned to see jason appear .
she spotted his knives and groaned , stomping her foot .
aw come on !
jason whispered behind his hand to seth and i. whats up with her ?
seth shrugged .
i dont know .
girl issues ?
i heard that !
emily said angrily .
thats when suddenly a hideous creature appeared in front of us .
it was hunched over , with thick furry skin and wicked claws that shot out of its curled paws .
we would soon know them as thrashers , beasts we would get used to seeing .
i dont know who screeched louder in fear , but im pretty sure it might have been me .
seth pulled his sword out but his hand shook like mad .
i clumsily pulled an arrow out of the quiver on my back and struggled to attach it to my bow .
how the heck did those people in movies make this look so easy ?
i exchanged a look with seth , but he looked as clueless as i did .
none of this felt real .
i swear , the creature laughed at us .
or maybe my fear was making me see and hear things .
jason moved silently to stand beside us , one of his throwing knives in his hand .
what do we do ?
were dead so it cant hurt us right ?
i asked .
i dont feel dead .
jason whispered .
i didnt either .
in fact , i realized that my whole body was aching from the strange attack i had experienced .
and if i was dead , i wouldnt need to breathe so heavily .
my heart was racing so fast that it might explode right out of my chest .
jason threw the knife he had been holding and it stuck into a tree .
he grinned at me and i guess it hit exactly where he wanted .
on the count of three , we attack with everything weve got .
okay ?
seth looked at jason and i .
we nodded at him .
one , two three !
when seth hit three , he charged with his sword .
i pulled back and released my arrow .
it hit the thrashers front paw .
before i could think , i had notched another one on the bow and drew back the string .
it was like i had been an archer my whole life .
jason threw knife after knife , hitting its mark every time .
when the creature went down , seth stood and took a breath .
then another tackled him to the ground .
i didnt know what to do and jason didnt either .
emily ran forward and pointed to seth who was clawing toward his weapon .
do something !
she screamed .
before i could reply , fire shot from her finger .
the thrasher yelped and jumped off seth and ran toward emily .
she smiled wickedly and held both hands out , pelting the creature with fire .
i pulled seth up in time to see the thrasher buried entangled by roots shooting from the dirt .
jason threw a knife in the pile to make sure it was really dead .
you okay ?
i asked seth , and congratulated emily on her new found talent .
im fine .
he said and limped over .
i gasped and pointed to his leg .
seth , youre bleeding blue !
he just blinked at him , glancing down at his leg .
he didnt answer as he tugged at me to start walking back towards where we had last seen ourselves .
we could still see our bodies sleeping peacefully , but this time i noticed that we were all faintly glowing blue .
i could see the rise and fall of my chest as i breathed .
so i really was alive , which made this situation even creepier and stranger .
i had two bodies !
how was this even possible ?
what do we do ?
seth , do you any ideas ?
she frowned when he didnt answer .
seth ?
emily spun in a circle but seth was nowhere to be found .
seth walked out from behind a tree .
but he was normal seth .
he had his dirty blonde hair back and was wearing his dirty jeans and shirt from school .
no dark red hair , no glimmering sword , no bleeding wound .
his warrior self was nowhere to be seen .
seth howd you do that ?
i asked .
he whirled around .
whos there ?
me , you idiot !
i snorted .
he stared at the place where i was standing , but his eyes werent focused on me .
jazell ?
obviously , are you blind ?
i can hear you but cant see you .
arent you back ?
where are you ?
no .
i said frustrated , now tell us how you got back .
he closed his eyes and sat down .
i imagined myself in my body , and what is was like to be back .
and then i was back to normal .
wait .
the wind picked up around him and then suddenly he was back , blue hair and all , standing beside his sitting , normal body .
wow how did you do that ?
emily gasped .
i imagined what it was like to fight that creature .
and then my body took over .
he explained , but i dont think he even understood .
then he was gone again and the real seth stood up .
try it .
i closed my eyes and thought of school and all of ms. stechers homework that i needed to do .
then my body was doing the rest .
i felt hot and cold , as the winds seemed to pick up .
i shivered and opened my eyes .
i was lying on the ground .
my hair brown hair flopped in my face as i sat up , seeing emily dash over to me .
seconds later jason walked through the trees , rubbing his face .
seth grinned at all of us we were back .
thats how it all started .
i dont know how we got the gift to become these different people , but we did .
thats the mystery and hopefully well solve it one day .
we were chosen for some unknown reason , but that reason doesnt matter .
all that matters is that we protect this town .
jasons eyes flashed .
i stood up and leaned over to him .
what jason ?
monsters , a whole bunch of them .
i saw the movement near the pond .
he pointed to the pond that was just nestled in the woods .
and with that , we were off .
running towards the pond to do what we do best , destroy monsters .
only this time it was different .
chapter 2 we ran and ducked behind a large boulder , huddling together .
we all sat down , closed our eyes , and concentrated .
i felt a shiver run through my body as i left it and entered my hunter form .
i followed emily , jason , and seth as we crept silently over to the monsters , splitting up to surround them .
i counted two thrashers , which surprised me .
i swear we saw more before .
the thrasher turned before we could execute a surprise attack .
seth marched over , swinging his sword .
jason threw knives calmly at the other monster while emily casted fire by his side .
i , however , was jumped on by something entirely new .
they were small and stubby , the size of dwarfs or gnomes .
their skin was shriveled and grey , and hung off their bodies like cold clothing .
their eyes were a bright yellow that matching their teeth and their fingers looked like gnarly old trees .
and the smell it was awful .
they grabbed my feet , back and tugged at my hair .
why does everything always happen to me ?
i complained .
no one heard me .
the ugly creatures continued tugging at me like annoying two year old , which made me get really annoyed .
get off me ugly looking toad dwarfs .
hey , thats what ill call you , toad dwarfs .
i smiled at my quick thinking .
i could be clever sometimes .
take that seth .
silly girl , were already called toad dwarfs .
the one on my leg croaked .
aw darn , never mind then .
so much for being clever .
the one on my back grabbed my hair .
he yanked it back .
ow !
it may be green but i still value it !
i grumbled , trying to pull my head free .
i also had no desire to be bald at 16 .
hes rising , hes rising !
the dwarf said excitedly .
his voice cracked at the last word .
who the heck is rising and why does it require pulling my hair out !
i snapped .
hes rising , hes rising !
he repeated , full of crazed excitement .
i swear i could feel him shaking from exhilaration .
whatever , youre now an official maniac .
i pulled out my hunting knife .
maniacs get destroyed by me .
no maniacs are allowed to exist except for me and emily .
he jumped off as i stabbed the one on my arm .
i grabbed my bow and shot him with an arrow before he his little legs could he him very far .
he fell to the ground , the arrow sticking straight up at the sky .
now the forest was maniac free .
i killed the others and looked up to find the thrashers dead too , probably courtesy of seth .
a few dwarfs were also lying dead in front of emily .
i walked back to my body and closed my eyes .
when i reopened them , i stood , stretching my legs .
the four of us headed back to the restaurant together , adrenaline still pumping through my veins .
i told emily and the boys about the freaky dwarves .
crazy right ?
i asked , running a hand through my hair .
no one said anything and emily produced a pencil out of her bag .
i need a piece of paper , jazell .
i ripped one out of my notebook and handed it to her .
we sat at the table and emily titled the page warnings .
i didnt know why .
okay , jazell , what exactly did he say ?
emily asked , pencil poised in the air ready to write .
he said , hes rising , hes rising .
i have no idea who he meant or if what he said means anything .
emily scribbled down , toad dwarf said , hes rising , hes rising .
whos coming and is he important ?
i stared at the paper , the question swirling in my mind .
who did he mean ?
now what did the dwarf tell you , seth ?
she asked .
he said , you wont stop him , little warrior .
he frowned at the last part .
emily added , toad dwarf told seth , you wont stop him , little warrior .
does this mean hes powerful ?
did you have to add the little warrior part ?
it makes me sound weak .
seth complained .
i did because we need all the facts .
its obvious the dwarf was trying to make you sound weak anyway .
now what did he tell you , jason ?
he said , he will destroy all half lings .
whats that supposed to mean , anyway ?
jason said .
she added the last bullet toad dwarf said to jason , he will destroy all half ling .
what does half ling mean ?
did the dwarfs tell you anything ?
i asked , taking the paper .
none of what she wrote on the paper made any sense to me .
she shook her head .
no and if they did , i was too busy trying to burn them to hear them .
she took the paper back .
well i think the only thing weve established is that toad dwarves are crazy .
seth said .
i noticed a thin , red line on his cheek where a thrasher must have scratched him .
emily wagged her finger at him .
never dis facts .
they might save you later in life .
seth just snorted .
jason punched him in the side .
listen to emily .
shes actually right sometimes .
thank you , jason .
she said cheerfully , huh wait , sometimes ?
she raised an eyebrow at him .
jason scowled at her .
im admitting youre sometimes right so dont push it .
point taken .
she tucked the paper in her drawstring bag .
you guys want to go to the park ?
they both half nodded , half shrugged , which she took for a yes .
so we got up and mounted our bikes .
i threw the bike lock in my bag , clipped on my helmet , and followed the others .
the three of them raced each other , but i kept my bike behind them .
what the dwarf had said was still troubling me and i didnt know if anyone else was feeling the same way .
i saw seth slow his bike down and glide next to me .
hey , he said .
hey .
then a question popped into my head , what were you doing alone in the woods yesterday ?
he was silent so i yelled to emily , hey , seths lost for words !
emily appeared by me and chuckled .
whats wrong , seth ?
thrasher got your tongue ?
before he could reply i said , i asked him what he was doing in the woods yesterday and he didnt have an answer .
we all know what this means .
yup , hes hiding something .
seth , why were you yelling at jazell for being out alone in the woods when you were doing the same ?
i wasnt hunting down monsters alone .
jazell was doing that , he grumbled , clearly annoyed .
but you were still out alone and you yelled at me for doing the same thing .
the same thing could have happened to you .
do you think youre stronger than the rest of us ?
my voice rose slightly at the end of my question .
no .
he went quiet and tried to avoid our eye contact .
now whos keeping secrets ?
youre breaking your own rules .
why were you out ?
emily can be very demanding sometimes , i actually felt a little bad about involving her in my interrogation .
just a little .
he mumbled something under his breath .
i cant hear you .
emily snapped .
i was out scouting !
he shouted , now can you hear me ?
yes , and now youve made me deaf !
emily yelled back .
why were you out scouting in the first place ?
i asked calmly , trying not to shout it out like emily .
seth gripped the handlebars and i knew he was losing his temper .
i was being cautious so we didnt have to worry last night , he said through gritted teeth .
he was lying and both of us knew that .
i glared at him , nice story seth , now what really happened ?
he didnt say anything and he rode ahead to get beside jason , who was in the lead .
the park slowly came in view .
it was a huge grass circle with a small play set in the middle covered in kids .
the woods surrounded it except for the side that faced the street .
a fountain was near the entrance along with a bike rack .
thats where we parked our bikes .
i clicked the lock together and grabbed my bag .
emily was fumbling with her bike lock , which was old and rusted and usually refused to work without a fight .
i walked over and tried to help her .
why do you think seth wont tell us what he was doing ?
i asked , watching her because she had refused to let me help .
pride purposes ?
he was yelling at you when he broke his own rules .
he just doesnt want to admit he did she said through her wild hair .
her lock finally clicked and she stood up .
the boys were walking side by side towards the play set .
it wasnt actually that small but it looked that way from the street .
there were six swings and a tower with four slides attached to it .
i ran after them with emily right behind me .
i slowed down next to jason and put my arm on his shoulder .
hey jason , do you know seths a liar ?
i asked and seth shot me a bad look .
jason frowned at me , what are you talking about , jazell ?
he broke his own rules .
he was out scouting without telling us .
i smiled and jason stiffened .
what ?
he growled .
are you two trying to create trouble ?
seth cut in .
emily put her arm around my shoulders .
no , we just want the truth , emily said sweetly .
yeah okay , whatever .
seth shoved his hands in his pockets , and glared at the ground .
i sat on one of the swings next to emily .
i traced the sticky metal rings and sighed .
emily was on her phone .
i saw seth and jason arguing off to the side .
everything was back to normal .
there was even a dwarf climbing the slide .
wait , hold on .
a dwarf ?
i elbowed emily in the arm , uh emily , is a dwarf using a slide a normal thing ?
i nodded in the direction of the dwarf and her eyes widened in surprise .
she jumped off the swing and grabbed me by the arm .
she ran over to jason and gripped his arm with her free hand , pulling us both after her .
seth frowned but had no choice but to follow .
wheres the dwarf ?
she asked quickly .
climbing the slide .
weird huh ?
i almost tripped but i caught myself .
she pushed us into the woods , we got to move fast before someone gets hurt .
make sure no one is around .
in a matter of seconds , i had an arrow in my bow , seth had his sword in his hand and jason had his hands full of knives .
the dwarf was sitting on the edge of the slide , looking like an ugly version of a toddler , and a few more came out of the woods to join him .
we tried to sneak up without being spotted but one of the dwarves turned his head and saw us .
he immediately launched himself onto emily .
she screeched and i thought i saw one of the kids turn around .
he crawled up to her ear and whispered something that i couldnt hear .
she froze , but i saw her place her hands on his wrinkled skin .
fire flared from her fingertips , scorching his skin .
he let out a screech and vaulted off her , running as fast as his legs could take him .
i held an arrow out and emily set it ablaze .
i drew back , launching the arrow , and watching it as it hit the dwarf in the back .
the fire charred its dying body and i looked away to face my new attacker .
one jumped on my head and i swung with my knife .
it yelled into my ear , the one will rise , the one will rise !
he will destroy you !
i stabbed at him again , who ?
youre being too vague !
he jumped off me and ran into the woods .
he disappeared before i could notch an arrow and shoot him .
soon we were alone again .
emily made us all meet by the fountain .
i guess we all heard some weird dwarf talk .
okay ill start this time .
he said , kill all the dwarfs you like , but kojas will rise .
at least we have an idea of who they might be talking about .
she added to her list toad dwarf said , kill all you like but kojas will rise .
is kojas the person theyve been talking about ?
who is he ?
he told me , the one will rise , the one rise !
he will destroy you !
thats almost the same thing as last time .
i tapped the fountain .
she scribbled , toad dwarf said , the one will rise , the one will rise !
he will destroy you !
is kojas rising ?
seth , do you have anything ?
emily clicked her pencil .
seth shook his head , but jason spoke up , he said , the king will rise .
then he left .
emily added one last bullet toad dwarf said to jason , the king will rise .
her list was toad dwarf said to jazell , hes rising , hes rising .
whos coming and is he important ?
toad dwarf told seth , you wont stop him , little warrior .
does this mean hes powerful ?
toad dwarf said to jason , he will destroy all half ling .
what does half ling mean ?
toad dwarf said to emily , kill all you like but kojas will rise .
is kojas the person theyve been talking about ?
who is he ?
toad dwarf said to jazell , the one will rise , the one will rise !
he will destroy you !
is kojas rising ?
toad dwarf said to jason , the king will rise .
she placed her notes in the middle so we could read it .
what does this all mean ?
i asked her .
she was silent , i guess the person theyre talking about is kojas , but we dont know who he is , or if hes important .
well , im thinking hes important because these weird dwarfs keep talking about him .
maybe hes their idol or something .
i said .
well , seth stated , maybe we should ask the dwarfs where he is .
thatll be hard .
emily pointed out .
they hardly tell us anything as it is .
you try squeezing out information from one of these pests .
i did .
whatever guys , were getting nowhere .
hey emily you want to sleep over tonight ?
i asked .
emily frowned , its my turn , jazell , and youre coming over my house .
honestly , em , just come over no , she said and crossed her arms stubbornly .
i sighed and ran a hand through my hair , knowing it was useless to argue with her when her mind was made up .
fine , ill call my parents .
but next time youre coming to my house .
she nodded , her curls bobbing .
fair enough .
okay then , see you two later .
jason turned around with seth on his heels .
wait a minute you two .
its only , i popped open my phone , 3pm .
we still have the rest of the day .
i shoved the phone back in my pocket .
hey , dont take this personally , but we want to hang out alone .
sobye !
jason said and jumped on his bike .
seth unchained his bike and rode off with him .
i realized then that seth had barely said anything the whole time , but he was already out of sight .
id have to question him later .
i sighed , well , at least we can hang out early .
well , while you were arguing with the boys i called home and they said you could come over now .
emily flashed me one of her million watt smiles .
great !
i piped .
ill call home quickly to check with my parents .
i called home and my parents said i could go , which wasnt much of a surprise .
ive been to plenty of sleepovers at emilys , so my parents didnt mind .
plus , our parents were close and emilys family was practically an extension of our own .
we rode over to her house and parked our bikes in the garage .
we knocked on the door and a woman answered .
emilys mom was short , small and bony .
her light brown hair was almost blonde without any gray in it .
the woman definitely did not look her age at all , and she was still as beautiful as i imagined she was in her youth .
she smiled warmly at us , her smile a reflection of emilys .
hello girls , come in .
emily , dear , can you put your laundry away ?
after you do that , you can hang out in your room .
emily nodded and disappeared inside .
her mom moved aside so i could walk in .
i unlaced my sneakers and walked up the stairs , looking at the flower paintings hung along the wall that her mom had painted in her spare time .
i pushed open emilys bedroom door to see her stuffing her clothes in the drawer and flopping onto the bed .
she pulled out my bag and threw it to me so i could set up my sleeping bag on her rug .
her mom called us downstairs , hopefully for food .
she held a box of pizza .
you two can eat upstairs or down here .
she already knew our answer and handed us paper plates .
i took three slices of pizza and ran upstairs .
emily and i sat on the floor , eating pizza and doodling nonsense in her notebook .
the time ticked by to one oclock in the morning .
we sat side by side on her bed near the window , and i played with the fridge on the edge of one of her pillows .
i looked down at emilys pajamas , which were covered in sun tanning penguins .
typical emily .
nice pjs emily .
i chuckled .
she stuck her tongue out , what do you have against sun tanning penguins ?
nothing !
i smiled to myself .
i shouldnt be talking i was wearing pajamas covered in little pigs .
emily leaned back to turn off her desk light .
it clicked off and i gazed outside one more time before turning around to go to bed .
night emily .
i yawned .
emily didnt reply because her face was pushed up against the window .
her body was ridged and she didnt move .
i crawled over to the window .
what is it , em ?
i whispered , a nervous feeling creeping into my stomach .
she backed away from the window so i could see .
i saw nothing at first but then i spotted movement .
the recognizable lines of toad dwarfs marched around the trees , and i could tell they were up to no good again .
they were really starting to get on my nerves .
looks like i wasnt sleeping after all .
chapter 3 sneaking out after hours isnt easy , especially at emilys house .
her parents arent sound sleepers .
if we werent really careful , theyd wake up and then wed have some answering to do .
and i dont think theyd understand our reason .
i followed emily down the stairs , in our pajamas , to the door .
we were careful not to make a sound but i listened closely to the sound of her dad snoring .
when the snore rang clearly through the house , i breathed a sigh of relief .
we threw on our sneakers and snuck out the door .
the summer night air was cool but a little sticky and clammy , making our bodies feel damp .
i followed emily down to the back of the garage , where we sat down and entered the monsters world .
i pushed my green hair back and hid behind a tree beside emily to watch the dwarfs .
there must have been more than ten of them gathered together .
they were parading around a blazing camp fire , mumbling and talking about things i couldnt hear over the flames .
some more emerged from the woods and joined them , their shadows dancing behind them .
then all of them suddenly broke out into an ominous song he will rise to the heavens , from the very pits of hell .
to take control of our world , and the gift less ones as well .
he will rule with a flaming torch , and save those who are worthy .
and for those who arent , well , you better watch out !
they all broke out in crazed laughs , which gave me the impression that each and every one of them was mad .
hell , i knew they were already mad .
they threw dirt at the fire and continued their wild laughs .
emily shuddered by me as they lifted their voices in another chorus .
he will rise to the heavens , from the very pits of hell , to crush all half lings and to take their very souls .
for the king will rule all , with his cruelty and rage .
i wouldnt want to be that half ling , that he spears through the head !
this time they were rolling on the floor , howling in laughter .
well , i didnt think this was very funny at all .
what was funny about getting speared through the head ?
i had a feeling the king they were talking about was kojas , and i really didnt want to be around to meet him , especially if it meant my head was going to become well acquainted with a weapon .
that is , if i was even a half ling like the dwarfs claimed i was .
they laughed and sat in a tight circle mumbling things i didnt catch .
my hand slipped to my knife but emily grabbed my hand to keep me from drawing it from its leather case .
no jazell not yet , maybe we can learn a little more from them .
her voice was a hoarse whisper .
but emily , its awful to listen to .
cant we just destroy the camp ?
i went for my bow instead .
no , she said a little more clearly .
we have to wait and see what happens .
plus , we cant just randomly attack them .
i didnt really care .
the song was repeating itself in my head , like a taunt .
without thinking , i aimed and shot the nearest dwarf .
as soon as he went down , the whole camp was facing our direction .
i was standing up now where everyone could see me .
there was no point in hiding anymore .
emily stayed hidden behind the tree , and i could feel her glare trying to burn me into ashes .
youll wish you never shot one of his loyal servants .
a dwarf seemed to laugh at me .
kojas will destroy you , half ling .
that is it , im sick of your riddles !
give me a darn straight answer or ill shoot every single one of you , i spat angrily , leveling my bow .
kill all you like half ling , but that wont help you in the end .
you will pay heavily in a terrible death worth all the loyal lives youve slayed , the dwarf proclaimed , and his friends bellowed out an agreement .
i dont care what the heck you say about dying because nothing will stop me from killing all of you !
youre making no apparent sense at all , and i dont care what stupid message youre trying to send me !
i hissed so bad i think that i spit .
gross .
oh but you will care , half ling .
the dwarf was now whispering and all the others had fallen silent so they could hear .
you will care because in the end , he will destroy you once hes done using you .
my arms were still tense and my muscles whined in protest as i held my arrow back in full draw .
use me to do what ?
i spoke , using the same tone as him .
the dwarfs eyes were twinkling in happiness .
he seemed happy to tell me the answer .
to take over the gift less ones world , why else half ling ?
youre the connection between igneeria and your world .
he needs you and he has made that clear .
the world had fallen to silence .
i spoke in barely a whisper , igneeria , thats your world isnt it ?
what does kojas want ?
the dwarf seemed to be getting extremely excited now , he wants your world and all other worlds because he is a mighty king who wishes to expand his kingdom .
so how would we help him do that ?
i asked , stalling .
we just exterminate the pests .
youre a half ling !
youre the bridge to our world .
now if you dont mind we would like to finish you now , and bring you to the king .
the dwarf said politely and snickered , approaching me .
i backed up slowly .
uh , i mind a lot actually .
i said quickly but i guess they didnt really want my opinion .
emily jumped out from behind the trees and lifted a flame .
she twirled it around with the movement of her hands and shot it at the nearest dwarf .
that started what seemed like a war .
all the dwarfs scrambled towards us and i simply shot them and emily fried them .
then jason and seth dissolved from the shadows and entered the clearing .
what are you two doing here ?
i yelled across to them , annoyed that they hadnt made their presence known earlier .
seth fought his way over to me , why do you need to know ?
because you just randomly appeared and i would like to know what youre doing in emilys backyard in the middle of the night .
i pointed out and took down the last dwarf .
we gathered around the barely burning embers , after we had re entered our own world .
emily and i quickly summed up what we had learned from the dwarfs .
jason listened and didnt speak , like usual , and for once seth didnt interrupt .
when we were finished nobody said a word as they soaked up everything that had happened .
it seemed like it was just too much for all of us to take in .
all of a sudden seth spoke up .
why are you wearing sun tanning penguin pajamas , emily ?
emily glared at him , what do you have against penguins ?
and why cant i wear pajamas ?
its the middle of the night you know .
seth wasnt bothered by her glare .
so it wouldnt have been hard to change .
seth should have realized that he was pushing emilys limited patience too far and that he should shut up .
she reached down and grabbed a small stick .
then she smacked seth across the head with it .
live with it seth .
emily said every word apart and wacked him again .
seth made a small , ow .
every time she hit him .
he grimaced and said , stop hitting me already !
alright , she made a motion to put the stick down and hit him again in the head .
he glared at her and she threw it on the floor , now im done .
so jason , i faced him and he looked up at me , since seth wont tell me ill ask you .
how did you guys find us ?
we followed a dwarf that was running here .
if we didnt get lost , we would have been here faster , jasons face turned the color of his red igneerian hair .
its okay , at least you answered me , i shot seth a look .
well if its okay with you boys , we would like to get to bed .
its almost 1 30 in the morning , and i would like to get home before my dad wakes himself up , emily said , and walked towards her house .
i waved quickly and followed .
the rest of the night was quiet and didnt include singing dwarfs .
before we went to bed though there was a lot of furious writing as emily tried to write everything down .
after that , was all sleep .
in the morning , we ate pancakes that emilys mom had made us and set off for the park .
we happened to run into jason and seth half way and at the same time watched a pole freeze in the middle of july .
you dont get to see that every day , which usually meant there was a monster involved .
jason , seth and emily saw it too because i was chasing after them as we all ran for the few trees ahead .
in a few seconds i had a complete view of the culprit .
and strange enough it was a frost beast .
frost beasts are the cutest monsters youll ever see .
theyre the size of medium dogs and their pelts are a light , icy blue .
they may be cute but if you dont watch out , they could easily be the most dangerous monsters around .
dont let them breath on you , or youll freeze to death .
literally .
the frost beast whimpered at me , showing me the cutest eyes imaginable .
i wanted to melt and hug him but i knew better not to fall victim to its trick .
i drew a single arrow and aimed it at its throat .
i didnt want to kill it , but i knew if i didnt , it would kill me without a second thought .
frost beasts dont appear until the end of fall and into winter .
they love the cold and cant stand the heat .
thats why i knew something was wrong right away , because it shouldnt have been here .
it was against its nature and when nature goes wrong , thats a big sign .
i pulled back on the string but emily ran forward and shot fire .
the beast simply opened its mouth and breathed .
what was a shot of fire was now a single icicle that landed on the ground in front of it .
instead jason came forward and attacked with his knives .
the beast froze the first few into harmless ice cubes but finally went down when one got past its defenses .
behind his body appeared seven thrashers and many more frost beasts .
it was like a monster reunion .
ive never seen so many in one place before .
a thrasher pack had at least six or seven but there must have been more than ten monsters total .
it was scary .
right then , right at that very moment , i knew something was terribly wrong .
they all stopped in front of us , all those pairs of angry eyes staring at us .
they made me confused , from the warm feeling the frost beasts gave me to the cold feeling the thrashers inflicted .
they exchanged some sort of signal , including grunts and yips , and slowly advanced on us .
the dogs stalked toward the four of us looking like a animals about to attack their prey .
the cute look was gone and all that was left was hunger .
the dog nearest to me jumped at my chest and landed on my stomach .
i managed to push it down before it breathed on me .
my legs froze in place .
emily i need some defrost .
i called to her as the cold seeped through my pants and bit at my skin .
emily turned her head and was about to reply when the dog caught her robe .
she spun around , shooting fire and completely forgetting my cry for help .
at the same time my dog attacker pushed me to the ground , freeing my legs for me .
get off me mutt .
i growled at his face .
he stared down at me , debating whether or not to freeze me right away .
that was his mistake because while he was waiting , i had brought my hunting dagger down on him .
i stood up and shook the heavy body off .
i didnt even have time to breath before one of the thrashers decided that they would like to have a taste of me .
i decided that i didnt want to be shredded like some old rug , so i moved out of his path .
that was the worst mistake i made , without even realizing it .
at the same time another thrasher was heading in my direction , and by moving out of the way from the first one , i had placed myself in the path of the second one .
it slammed into my side at such a great force i tasted blood in my mouth , when i hit the ground .
then i felt pain , saw blood , and then nothing at all .
chapter 4 i heard muffled voices around me as i regained consciousness .
my head throbbed slightly , and so did my side and my tongue .
that explained why i had tasted blood i must have bitten it .
for a second i thought i had returned to my human self when i heard a blast of fire that probably came from emily .
seth when will she wake up ?
a voice said .
then i realized it was emily .
shes alive and shell wake up soon .
stop nagging me , a different voice said that was obviously seths .
he was really close to me because i could feel his breath on my face and his voice was very loud .
which wasnt helping my throbbing head at all .
but when ?
i dont like just staying here , when more monsters might come .
we cant do two things at once .
emily nagged anyway .
i could just picture her bouncing up and down on her heels , full of tension .
i felt rush of hot air near my left side .
seth was probably sighing , we cant move her emily .
if we could , we would .
i opened my eyes to see seth face hovering above me .
emily was pacing in the background and jason was standing off to the side , looking very uninterested in the current situation .
seth smiled at me and i felt myself blush .
it was kind of embarrassing to get knocked out when no one else did .
welcome back , zombie hunter girl , seth teased .
how long was i out ?
i asked , blushing brighter .
except i couldnt pin down the reason why .
seth frowned , i dont know but it seemed like forever .
you scared us , jazell .
especially seth , emily piped up behind him .
he was the one going crazy to bandage you and was worrying more than the rest of us .
seths face reached a new undiscovered level of red , i didnt want to lose a friend .
right emily trailed off and smirked at him , wiggling her eyebrows .
seth squirmed slightly and avoided her gaze .
i started to laugh but in morphed into a cough instead .
i clutched my midsection to find it was covered in bandages .
what exactly happened ?
i questioned .
seth glanced at emily and back at me , i dont really know .
we turned around to see you being mauled by a thrasher .
before either of us could do anything , some light appeared out of nowhere .
when it died down , we found you lying on the ground unconscious .
thats basically it .
we dont know what the light was .
emily added .
but whatever it was , it saved your life .
uh i have a feeling i should thank it , but i dont know how you thank light .
i muttered .
you thank it like you would thank anyone else , a voice said .
i almost jumped to the moon in surprise .
out of nowhere someone , or something , appeared beside jason .
i think jason was more scared because he actually jumped into the air .
as it came into view , it became obvious that it was a girl .
she in a yellow cloak and had dazzling red hair .
she smiled warmly at us with her chocolate brown eyes and i realized she had pointed ears .
so i basically made the conclusion that she wasnt human .
uh okay i said slowly .
she giggled , wow i never thought id scare a bunch of half lings but i guess i did .
you didnt scare me , jason said quickly .
yeah okay , jason , emily said sarcastically .
i sat up and leaned on seth because i would fall if i didnt , and emily and jason were too busy giving each other looks to help me .
what and who are you ?
i stared at her .
she rolled her eyes , a light pixie , duh .
i blinked , a light pixie ?
yes , a light pixie .
are you deaf ?
she retorted .
uh , no , im not .
i dont know what a light pixie is or why you saved my life , but thank you i said , trying not to snap back .
well you are a half ling and we need as many of them as we can get , she pointed out .
plus im not evil , so why shouldnt i help you out ?
uh thanks i guess .
this situation was extremely awkward to me .
she winked and disappeared in a flash .
i limped over to my body ignoring seths yells to tell me to sit down .
i felt the wind pick up and was whisked back to my normal self .
i felt fine except for the fact it hurt to stretch my left side .
i would probably be extremely stiff and sore tomorrow morning , but i was used to that feeling .
we began to walk back towards the park when jason stopped us .
hey can seth and i catch you guys later ?
we have something to do .
jason grabbed seth and they took off .
emily raised an eyebrow , should we be concerned ?
nah theyre boys , let them do what they have to do , i said with a quick sigh .
while we were walking the boys appeared in front of us , holding something behind their backs .
they seemed to be fighting giggles which usually meant they were hiding something .
or they were about to do something that fell under their category of funny .
hi guys , seth said still fighting a smirk .
hi , i replied cautiously .
what are you guys hiding ?
jasons face twisted up and a snort of laughter fought its way out of his nose .
nothing .
right emily gave me a look that said , is this good or bad ?
i didnt really have an answer for her but i knew that whatever was coming , it wasnt going to be good .
so jason , we have a question for you .
i nodded towards emily .
jasons face grinned in a seriously weird way that screamed , weirdo !
he shifted his hands and said , what ?
emily stepped forward , we want to know what youre but she never finished .
she had triggered it all .
jason had been hiding two blue , full , water pistols behind his back and was now shooting them at emilys face .
she was holding up her hands and letting out some sort of squeal .
seth had been hiding a full two handed water gun behind his back and the end was pointed at no other than me .
you wouldnt , i said , my voice dark .
seth gave me a maniacs grin , you already know the answer to that .
then he shot me right in the face .
i blocked most of the spray from my face but water still leaked through my fingers .
i felt the cold water seep through my clothes and onto my skin as seth continued to soak me .
crap jason , shut it off !
emily hollered but it didnt work because i heard her yell again as he sprayed her hair .
i couldnt see anything because my eyes were half shut and i was afraid seth would wash my eyes out .
seth seriously , stop .
you cant command boys to do anything and to prove that , seth shot my butt .
eventually they stopped , only because three water guns can hold only so much water and emily and me looked like we could kill .
we were both completely soaked to the bone and even though in was the middle of summer , we were shivering .
the boys looked completely satisfied with how we looked .
after emily and i gave them a look , they tore down the street and disappeared .
emily squeezed the bottom of her shirt , i hate them so much right now .
water gushed onto the street .
i wrung my hair out .
i agree and if we didnt need them , id be planning their funeral .
emily smiled , id be helping you .
do you think they would like pink coffins ?
totally , i laughed and grabbed my dry bag .
lets go home .
want to crash at my place ?
emily flipped open her phone , her fingers danced on the keys and paused .
then they clicked and she shoved it in her pocket .
yup i can .
youre always one step ahead .
always .
so what do you think we should do ?
emily asked from my bed later on .
i swallowed the bit of strawberry that had been in my mouth .
i dont know , ambush them back ?
they might see that coming , she pointed out , and its really obvious .
well , they think we wont do that because that is exactly what they would be expecting , so by actually doing it , we can trick them , i rambled on and grabbed another strawberry .
emily tapped her lip with her pencil and straightened her pink pajamas .
i have no clue what you just said jazell .
i laughed , what i meant was that we should ambush them .
give them a piece of what they did to us .
emilys eyes lit up , you mean use water guns and water balloons i added .
and a trebuchet to launch the balloons !
emily scribbled furiously on her paper .
i can build one easily .
sweet , but when do we do it ?
all four of us hang out every day .
i can solve that problem .
we just tell them we want a day to do girl things and theyll butt right out , she slid onto the floor and snatched a strawberry .
i grinned , this is going to be some fun revenge !
you can say that again .
okay , i said , this is going to be some fun revenge .
she wacked me in the head with my pillow , youre so weird .
well thats the way i am , deal with it , i wacked her back with my own pillow .
no i will not deal with it , she walloped me in the head one more time .
i need you for team penguin , and i dont need a smarty pants .
how come you get to name the team ?
i asked .
because i was the one who got shot first .
early the next day , which wasnt that early because we got up around ten oclock , we gathered my old water gun and some water balloons .
emily brought down the trebuchet shed spent all night building and we took off on our bikes .
emily led the way to jasons where she was pretty sure the boys would be .
we hid our bikes in the trees and snuck up to their backyard .
jason and seth appeared to be setting up some airplane that they built from scratch .
they were muttering to each other and assembling a table they would use for a launch pad .
i grabbed my water gun and emily took out her trebuchet , with her balloons , and we snuck up on them .
i held my hand up to stop emily , waiting until jason and seth were grabbing the airplane out of a box and lowered my hand .
revenge !
i yelled , and ran out from behind the trees , with emily following .
the looks on their faces were priceless .
they spun around just in time as emily launched a balloon right at jasons face .
i aimed at seth , who i soaked in minutes .
their faces looked like they had seen a dinosaur come back to life .
jason scrambled away from emily but she nailed him so many times it didnt matter , he was already soaking wet .
the last of my water leaked out the back of the gun and we just stood there .
jason smiled but you could see he was hiding the anger in his face .
seth was emotionless he didnt give any sign on what he was feeling .
so you felt like getting us back ?
jason asked .
emily glared at him , you deserved it because you soaked us too .
so , he rolled his eyes , you thought you could just ambush us .
have you learned nothing and that we might want revenge now .
then you will and so on .
youve started a really long war .
who says the penguins cant win a war , huh ?
we just won right now , emily said .
the penguins ?
does that really matter ?
she hissed .
youre on .
jason smirked , alright then , penguins , if you want a water war , you got one .
youre on too !
this whole time seth didnt say a word , which was strange .
usually seth did all the talking while jason stood watching but now jason was doing all the talking and seth was the one watching .
he stood there and seemed unmoved from being soaked by my water gun .
his face was blank and he was staring at nothing .
it wasnt the seth i was friends with .
while emily and jason were bickering i said , seth ?
seth didnt answer .
he acted like he didnt hear me .
seth ?
hello earth to seth , i repeated .
no answer again .
seth is there something wrong ?
i whispered .
he didnt answer me again .
he continued to stare at the woods as if he expected a flying deer to leap out , wearing pink socks .
what the heck seth , are you deaf now ?
i waited for a sign that he heard me to appear on his face , but it remained blank .
emily huffed loudly , expect something from jazell and me soon jason .
were out of here .
see you around .
she grabbed my hand and pulled me away .
seth turned to see me leave and the look gave me a dark feeling inside .
his face was masked with one emotion , one that made me vow to myself that i would find out what he was hiding , what he was keeping a secret .
that emotion was not seth , not the one i knew .
it made me feel the same way and i didnt know why .
fear .
chapter 5 the water war continued with us getting them and them getting us .
we attacked them with a pool , and they threw water balloons at us while we were on bikes .
it was pretty simple , but the whole time all i noticed was seth .
he wasnt the same to me anymore he always had this mask on his face , hiding himself from the rest of us .
i had to find out what was wrong , and soon .
jazell , are you paying attention ?
emilys annoyed voice broke my day dreams .
i snapped back to attention , uh yes , i am emily .
just for the record , what are we talking about ?
jazell youre hopeless !
were talking about what to do next , she scowled .
wait , an idea jumped into my head , how about we meet under a truce .
emily stared at me .
a truce ?
seriously ?
that is the complete opposite of what were doing .
i know but trust me we need to meet under a truce .
what about monster fighting and this whole puzzle with the dwarfs ?
did we just forget all about it or are we not going to do our job anymore ?
were still fighting , jazell .
were all just having some fun because its summer and not school .
well get back to it later .
listen , why dont we meet once and then go back to this water war .
at least we should think about this a little bit .
i pushed the paper of warnings in front of her face .
fine , she snatched the paper out of my hands .
well meet jazell , okay ?
are you happy now ?
then well go back to soaking each other randomly .
yes , im happy .
i didnt call a truce for the warnings .
i did it because thats when id talk to seth and get his secret out of him .
then maybe i could help him and stop having to watch his miserable face .
emily made a face and left the room to dial jasons number and tell him about the meeting .
i waited patiently for her to come back in my room .
i cant wait long because i have a tendency to go crazy , so i walked up to my window sill and looked at the sky .
i stared it and turned around to see emily come back in .
but not before my eyes caught a flash of blue .
emily and i parked our bikes and headed into the woods and towards the clearing .
we stepped into it , and i took in the familiar feeling .
out of all the places weve all been , this place felt the safest , as if it were surrounded by a good force , not bad for once .
we often met here when we werent all together .
i sat down next to emily on a log .
minutes later jason and seth emerged from the trees .
they werent smiling or doing anything suspicious so i figured we were safe , for now .
they sat down across from us .
i noticed that seth was avoiding my eyes .
so whose crazy idea was it to meet under a truce when were having so much fun wreaking havoc on each other ?
jason asked .
emily sighed and pointed at me , this crazy person right here .
so what do you want ?
he continued and eyed me .
i took a small , quiet breath and said what i had planned , i want to work on the dwarf problem .
i nodded towards emily , signaling her to take out her paper .
she groaned and pulled the folded piece of paper out of her pocket .
she unfolded it and placed it in front of us .
while we studied it , i tried to catch seths eye , but he didnt look at me .
i felt something boil deep within me the anger at him .
we were his best friends , we told each other everything and now he was keeping something from us .
i could see it was eating at him , so why didnt he tell us what it was ?
that was the question that was making me steam .
seth out with it !
i didnt know why i shouted .
i startled him and he looked up at me .
what do you mean , jazell ?
i mean tell me what youre hiding !
i yelled at him .
he stood up , im not hiding anything .
his voice was level but it shook slightly .
i stepped towards him and gave him a hard shove .
he stumbled back and fell on the ground .
he looked up at me , waiting for what i would do next .
why are you keeping a secret from me ?
i repeated , my voice as cold as an icicle .
seth didnt answer me , instead he did the most cowardly and annoying thing you can do .
the idiot ran off .
seth pushed himself up at a surprising speed and raced off into the woods .
i did the crazy thing that people like me would do and followed him .
i looked over my shoulder to see if emily and jason were coming but both of them stared at me , baffled .
their faces disappeared as i was swallowed by the trees .
i skidded to a halt and scanned the trees .
i didnt see any trace of where seth could have ran .
that shows how much i know about asking questions .
i dont get the answers and boom i lose it and become a demanding person .
i walked more slowly , watching the trees .
i sent a silent prayer that seth hadnt entered igneeria , because then i would never find him .
what bugged me the most was that seth didnt fight me when i pushed him down .
he just sat on the ground not saying anything at all in his own defense .
now , i couldnt find him anywhere and i would never get my answer .
i heard a large snap to my right and i whirled around .
i heard another crack and i slowly crept towards the noise .
another snap sounded , louder this time , to my left .
i changed direction and hid behind a tree .
i peeked around it .
seth grabbed another stick and slammed it into a tree .
it hit the tree with a loud crack and broke in half .
he picked up another and rammed it again .
he went to grab another one but his fingers couldnt grasp it .
they shook so hard he dropped it and he sunk to the ground .
i saw him place his head under his arms and he curled himself in a tight bundle .
he shook and i heard him do something that i thought seth never did .
he cried .
i stepped out from behind the tree and walked over to him .
he didnt hear me , or look up .
i wasnt mad at him anymore for not telling me what i wanted to know .
now i felt bad that i had nagged him so hard that he was breaking .
i walked over to him and wrapped my arms around his body .
he stopped crying and i felt him squirm .
seth grunted and then mumbled , get off me .
no , not until you tell me whats going on , i said .
he groaned .
seriously jazell , nothing is wrong .
now get off me .
i rolled my eyes but he couldnt see that .
youre a horrible liar seth .
i know , i felt him sigh .
please jazell its nothing you need to worry about , okay ?
just leave me be , i will deal with it .
i let my arms fall and seth lifted his head .
his eyes were red from crying but something in his eyes showed he was still seth .
the same darn stubborn and annoying seth i was friends with .
that let me relax a little .
he faced me , you should go back to the others .
i bet theyre probably wondering no way , i cut in .
im not leaving until i get my answer .
seth traced the dirt with the end of a stick .
you say im stubborn i laughed and he continued , listen , i dont even know if its true or not .
theres no need for me to worry any of you .
thats why i didnt say anything .
i still dont care , seth .
i said .
he made a face , jazell i really dont know if i should say anything i interrupted him again , seth just give up trying to talk me into not listening .
its a waste of breath .
i took my own stick and threw it at him .
he ducked , of course , and it landed on the ground .
what if whatever youre not telling us happens and we never knew ?
how would that help anyone ?
he looked down and mumbled something that sounded like , you couldnt help .
when he looked back up he said , fine you win , ill tell you .
he didnt sound happy about it .
im waiting .
you know , when emily asked for any warnings that we were given ?
yeah .
i had a bad feeling where this was going .
i lied .
i blinked in amazement .
you lied to emily ?
shes going kill you .
he smiled faintly .
she doesnt need to know .
so a dwarf told you something ?
why didnt you tell us ?
i asked .
seth looked away .
it didnt actually include you or anyone else , so i did n't say anything .
he paused .
they said that i would betray you all and be kojas ' servant .
i would be the key to the downfall of igneeria .
i do n't know what to do jazell i do n't even know if those things are true .
they wo n't attack me and i swear , if you gave them a minute , i bet they would help me .
he was talking so fast the words almost blurred together .
i do n't know what to say seth , i said .
maybe you should n't worry , maybe they 're wrong .
you can control what happens .
if you say it wo n't happen , it wo n't .
i hope you 're right , he said .
me too .
the mood was perfect .
i saw seth relax a little and the look on his face was more like himself .
i was perfectly happy with the way everything was right now until i saw the small outline of a toad dwarf nearby .
uh seth i do n't think this is the best time to mention this but i think we have company .
i pointed to the shape .
he swore under his breath , and we both entered the dwarf 's world together .
sure enough , it was a dwarf but there was something strangely different about this particular dwarf .
he just walked toward us as if he was n't afraid that i might put an arrow through his head .
just as i was about to release my arrow , the dwarf cried , please stop !
i dont know why i listened to him but i didnt pull the string .
the dwarf was acting different than the others its pudgy eyes were filled with fear at the sight of my arrow .
why ?
seth growled .
your kind has done nothing good to us except make us confused and our lives more complicated .
the dwarf looked startled .
oh youll have to excuse my brethren they have a tendency to be rather annoying .
he took a long frightened look at seths sword .
good sir , before you try to slay me , i have a message to deliver from her majesty .
i lowered my bow because i had a feeling i wanted to know what this message was .
if it was a lie , seth and i could kill him anyway in a blink of an eye .
seth , maybe we should hear what he has to say .
ive had enough of listening to dwarfs , seth hissed .
all they bring me is bad news .
the dwarf was trembling .
oh please , sir , listen to the good lady !
i do not bring news that will cause you pain , but i bring news of the pain of others .
you must listen , it is my task !
seth looked at me and i nodded .
he sighed and lowered his weapon to the ground , its tip digging into the dirt .
the dwarf relaxed a little , but its body was still full of tension .
thank you , sir !
he squeaked .
her majesty requests that i tell you about youre real destiny .
she believes youve been in the dark long enough .
what do you mean ?
i questioned .
our real destiny ?
yes , he said , a little more relaxed , it must take place in igneeria , where you are truly needed .
my brow furrowed in confusion .
but wait , arent we in igneeria right now ?
the dwarf gave a quick , half hearted laugh .
no miss , you are far from igneeria .
youre in the half way , the place between earth and igneeria .
the half way can act as a gate , or passage into earth .
it seals off the two worlds and if a monster were to make it as far as the half way , it would have a truly difficult time completing its journey because it wont find a way in or out of this place .
so let me get this straight , i said slowly , were not in igneeria right now but some half way ?
the dwarf nodded , happily .
so wheres igneeria ?
the dwarf rubbed his stubby chin .
the entrance changes but its current location is in your town .
thats how i got here .
but dont get the half way confused with igneeria , miss , for they are quite different .
especially now , with all the dark events that have been occurring because of his rising .
you mean kojas ?
i asked .
shh !
not here , not anywhere !
he said quickly .
never say his name unless youre sure hes not around .
his name can summon him or others .
you understand , do not say his name !
alright , alright i get it !
i said .
i dont have to be told a million times .
now what else do you need to tell us about our destiny .
i included air quotes around destiny .
he stared at me happily .
oh you have to come to igneeria , miss .
wow wait , hold it !
i held my hands out .
buddy , you just show up talking about some destiny that we dont know about and then you say that we have to come to some place thats not here , and you expect us to go ?
what about our families and people whod ask questions , if we disappear .
what do we say , oh sorry about that everyone , we just felt like leaving earth to go to this magical place called igneeria to do something that we dont know about .
well of course , there will be some minor difficulties , he said .
minor ?
i squeaked .
seriously , did you not hear a word i just said ?
he placed his pudgy hands on his small hips .
miss dont you think that her majesty would have this all planned out ?
you dont have to worry .
seth twirled his sword .
why not , we have to tell our parents something .
sir , dont worry about a thing .
all you need to do is go home .
everything has been arranged .
what do you mean , arranged ?
seth asked sharply .
the dwarf seemed to bounce up and down .
it has sir , but i dont know what her majesty did .
all i know is that all of you have to go home to get ready .
my mind whirled with all this new information .
wait , why do we have to go ?
what is this destiny ?
the dwarf gave a feeble smile .
all of you must free our world from darkness , from him .
seth and i walked back to our clearing , both our brains not thinking .
it was too much to take in at once .
destroy kojas ?
we could barely take on a mass of monsters without dying , so how were we suppose to take down an evil , powerful demon ?
as the trees parted away to show the empty ground , i spotted emily and jason looking like they were about to go to war with a bunch of sticks .
when they saw us appear , both dropped their weapons and smiled at us .
typical cover up .
hey seth , it looks like jazell didnt kill you after all , emily said and flashed me a grin .
what was that all about anyway , jazell ?
i opened my mouth to spill the whole truth when seth glanced at me .
i sighed at his expression , knowing that i couldnt tell anyone if seth didnt want me to .
i didnt want to make it worse by revealing what i knew .
when i didnt reply , she covered her mouth with her hand to try to cover her chuckles .
oh then , she giggled , i hope you two had a nice chat .
stop it emily !
i snapped and felt my face burn .
she snickered .
okay whatever you say , jazell .
we have to tell you guys something , i told her and jason about how the dwarf had showed up and what he said about igneeria .
emily listened quietly but when i got to the part that we were supposed to go there , her mouth fell open .
thats completely crazy !
emily gasped .
were supposed to just leave and go there ?
what about our parents ?
he told me , and i quote , miss did you not think that her majesty would have this all planned out ?
you dont have to worry .
i personally think its all a little skeptical , dont you ?
yes , she said , digging for a pencil and paper from my bag , i do .
we dont even know who this majesty is and if this information is reliable .
i understand the half way part , that makes sense , but the destiny part doesnt .
i sighed and sat down on the log .
the dwarf said to meet him tomorrow morning near the thorn that reaches the sky .
what does that mean anyway ?
jason stepped over and spoke instead of emily , who was furiously writing everything down , as if shed forget in a couple of seconds , it could be a description of something in town , maybe a building or a landmark .
i suddenly got an idea and took another piece of paper out .
hey jason maybe you could draw what you think it might be and that would help us .
ill try my best , jazell , he said .
i knew that his drawing would probably help us .
he was the best artist i knew , his artwork was almost real .
hey guys , emily piped up from her paper , i think we should get home and speak to our parents .
i want to see what this dwarf was talking about when he said that everything was already arranged .
i agree .
i grabbed my backpack .
wait , are we going to go ?
seth and jason grinned at me and said together , you bet .
that is if we can find the place , emily reminded them .
i turned the door knob and walked into the kitchen .
my mom and dad were sitting in the living room looking extremely excited .
before i even had a chance to say hi , my mom jumped up and rushed over to me .
you never told us that you applied for a summer camp !
my mom squealed happily .
you also didnt tell us that you were to be picked from the best .
congratulations !
she hugged me .
um , i choked out in surprise as i was squeezed , i wanted it to beuha surprise .
i managed to get the words out and seem intelligent .
my mom released me from her clamp like hug , well i am surprised , and very proud !
thank you ?
i said slowly .
this must have been the dwarfs plan .
would have been nice if he had warned me , i thought bitterly .
my dad got up and glowed happily behind my mom .
we are very proud , jazell .
youre supposed to leave tomorrow , so you better pack .
im going to go do that .
i said quickly , while i backed up towards the stairs .
as soon as i reached them , i shot up so fast you would think i was running for my life .
i closed the door , locking it behind me and then dialed emilys cell phone as fast as i could .
i sat on my bed as the phone rang three times before i heard it click .
jazell you wouldnt believe what my parents just told me .
they say i signed up for some camp and i know the same thing happened to me , i interrupted her quickly .
i hear her breathe heavily , this is crazy , its just happening too fast .
we have to go or well be in big trouble with our parents .
but the thing is we dont know where this meeting place is and she was cut off by the ringing of my phone .
wait a minute emily , ill have to put you on hold .
she huffed in reply so i pressed a button and said , hello ?
its me , jazell , jasons voice said breathlessly .
i know where the meeting place is .
great jason , where is it ?
i asked .
a shuffle of paper sounded as jason moved around .
its at the art statue , the one we call the rising hill .
its in the park , remember ?
of course , when we were younger , we used to try to climb it .
i replied .
i heard jason chuckle .
who could forget ?
so i guess ill see you there ?
of course , jason , ill tell emily .
ill tell seth then .
see ya .
emilys voice came back .
well , who was it ?
it was jason , he found the meeting place , i said .
its the public art piece we use to climb .
that makes sense .
she paused .
i have to go , dinner .
bye emily , i whispered .
see you tomorrow .
bye .
she clicked off .
after dinner i was laying in bed , my mind spinning .
i still couldnt believe where i was going tomorrow .
to igneeria .
chapter 6 i opened my eyes the next morning , the suns rays shinning through my bedroom window .
i didnt roll out of bed for a minute instead i lay staring at the ceiling trying to prepare my brain for the day ahead .
i heard my mom and dad walking downstairs , talking excitedly about where they thought i was going to go today .
i rolled off my bed and walked sleepily over to my dresser to pull out a pair of jeans and a shirt .
after i had pulled the shirt over my head , i grabbed my half empty traveling bag and headed down stairs .
i dropped my bag near the door and walked over to the kitchen table .
my mom had placed a full plate of eggs and toast on the table i sat down and started to eat .
my mom hurried over and glanced at her watch .
you have about a half an hour until you have to leave .
eat up .
i responded with a quick shovel of food .
within 25 minutes , i was standing by the door with my stomach all queasy .
my mom rushed forward and gave me a quick hug .
be careful now and enjoy yourself !
right i will i said uneasily .
no doubt that i was going to be very careful indeed .
i stepped outside and the door closed behind me .
my mom and dad watched from the window , waving happily to me .
i returned a slow , uncertain wave and hurried off towards the park .
as i entered the park , i spotted the rising public art statue .
the shape twisted and stretched towards the sky , trying to touch it .
now that i really thought of it , it did look like a thorn .
i dropped my bag and leaned my back against the statue , closing my eyes .
i wondered what igneeria would be like .
maybe the place would be pretty decent jazell ?
emilys voice scattered my thoughts and i opened my eyes to see her walking briskly towards me .
she too had an empty bag slung over her shoulder .
she dropped her bag next to mine and leaned against the statue .
nobody spoke for awhile .
finally emily opened her mouth and said , what are you thinking about ?
what ?
the question had caught me by complete surprise .
what are you thinking about ?
she repeated .
surely you must be thinking something were going to some other world !
i closed my eyes .
i was just wondering what it would be like in igneeria .
what about you ?
well , she said thoughtfully , i was thinking about kojas emily dont say his name , i dont feel like being yelled at again .
i interrupted her .
fine , she said , a little annoyed .
i was thinking about him , if i must call him that , and what hes like .
i rolled my eyes .
emily isnt it obvious hes evil for crying out loud .
thats why we have to go and stop him .
i know that jazell , gosh , but i was wondering what he looks like .
i dont want to know , i said .
emily twirled her hair , i know but im just curious .
i bit my lip .
if we do end up fighting this guy , youll get your wish .
minutes later , jason emerged from the trees and dropped his travel bag on the ground .
he leaned against the statue next to emily , giving us both feeble smiles .
so , he said , trying to sound happy , travel day today , huh ?
we didnt answer .
okay looks like ill do the talking , jason said .
you two excited ?
emily shook her head .
no , jason were both jumping for joy , but its so deep down that instead we both look like we want to slug you , i said sarcastically .
jason sighed , okay , you would say something like that .
i thought in a mood like this you would be lessannoying .
as soon as he finished his sentence , i wacked him as hard as i could .
seth showed up after that , placed his bag on the ground , leaned on the statue next to me , and didnt say a word .
we all stood there waiting for the dwarf to show up .
right as i was about to give up and say we had the wrong place , he appeared .
jason saw his blurry outline first and signaled us to enter the half way .
the wind whirled around me , and i walked over to the dwarf with the others .
the dwarf was breathing heavily , trying to catch his breath .
all four of us stood there waiting and when he got his breath back , he spoke .
i am glad that you accepted my message , he said to seth and me .
then he turned to emily and jason and said , ah , its great to meet the other two .
he beamed at all four of us .
hi , emily said , looking a little freaked out .
so now that youre here , are we going to get a move on or what ?
oh of course , follow me please .
he shuffled off and disappeared behind the statue .
jason raised an eyebrow .
where is he going ?
emily sighed .
theres only one way to find out .
she walked behind the statue .
seth , jason , and i followed her .
as soon as i was on the other side , i gasped at what i saw .
in front of me was an archway .
two entwined hooks were mounted on the top .
each side was twisted metal that ended in the ground .
in the center , two pieces spun together and ended holding a pulsing , black crystal .
you should have been able to look right through the archway but there seemed to be a sheet of transparent black glass in the way .
this is the door to igneeria , the dwarf pronounced proudly .
i fought the urge to say , no duh !
jason looked up , mesmerized .
epic .
epic ?
seth scoffed .
thats all you can say ?
this , he motioned to the dark archway , ca n't be described by one word .
i smiled to myself .
the old seth seemed to be coming back , which was great .
i was getting really tired of quiet , watching seth .
then how about the coolest thing on earth ?
jason asked .
seth shook his head .
no , its not even a part of earth .
try creepy , but cool .
emily rolled her eyes .
boys , i still dont know how they find this interesting .
she pointed to jason and seth , who were continuing to guess random names to describe the arch .
i mean , who cares !
am i right about them ?
yes , completely , i said and fought a laugh .
dont try to understand or youll get lost in the complicated labyrinths that are their brains .
i think this is the most thinking the two have ever done , emily said with a sigh and shook her head , making her pink curls dance .
its just sad .
i was about to say something else when the dwarf gave a loud cough .
jason and seth fell silent , outlined by the eerie glow of the arch .
you must know a few things before you enter , the dwarf said , pacing back and forth .
he reminded me of a teacher instructing a class .
first of all , once you enter , there is a chance that you wont be able to leave for a while .
my heart fell at this .
second , igneeria is wild and offers little protection .
especially at a time like this .
he gave us a hard stare .
you might get seriously injured , or you might almost die .
you must be ready for this .
i felt my stomach do sick flip flops .
i wasnt ready .
anyway , the dwarf said quickly , obviously seeing our surprised faces , i think all of you can deal with that .
shall we go ?
seth shrugged , i guess .
the answer to that question doesnt really matter .
the dwarf held his hand out , shall we go then ?
i shrugged , lead the way , shorty .
the dwarf gave me an annoyed look and walked towards the arch .
i expected him to go right through but he disappeared in a swirl of black mist .
jason shrugged and ran in after him .
wait jason , emily called .
dang , never mind .
she disappeared too .
i went to follow her and hesitated .
seth walked up to me , you nervous ?
why shouldnt i be ?
i said , shaking .
is going to a different world supposed to be vacation relaxing in the sun easy ?
he smirked , i never said that .
you implied it , i said , with a roll of my eyes .
he sighed and pushed me into the doorway , the dark , swirling mist swallowing me up .
i felt his hands leave my back for a second and then they were back .
the chilly feeling welcomed me , like a long lost friend .
as soon as the mist cleared , i was standing in a forest clearing .
the sky was hazy and dreary , making me want to run back to earth .
but when i turned around , the door was gone .
emily looked terrified , her eyes bigger than the eerie moon above .
jason was frozen next to her , eyes darting around at the shadows .
the dwarf stood perfectly calm in front of us .
no one spoke because there was nothing to say .
i heard rustling in the trees and dozens of creatures came thundering out .
i noticed thrashers , frost beasts , swamp trolls and many others i have never seen .
they lumbered towards us , teeth flashing in the moon light .
seth whirled around on the dwarf .
you set us up !
he hissed , sword drawn .
this was all a trap !
the dwarf 's eyes widened in alarm , i swear , sir , that i knew nothing of this !
i warned you that you must be prepared for anything .
seth , i said slowly , placing a hand on his shoulder , do n't attack him , we need him to help us get through igneeria .
i felt his shoulder muscle tense under my fingers but he lowered his blade .
he did n't sheath it though , because he would need it in the fight .
he glowered at the dwarf , do n't think that i trust you , dwarf , he said angrily .
you 're only alive because jazell makes a good point .
but if i find that you are lying to us , he sliced the air , you 're going to have a lot more problems than you think .
the dwarf gulped and looked away .
i gripped seth 's shoulder and he turned around to face me .
i saw distrust flash in his eyes but he gave me a weak smile .
we turned to face the monsters heading for us .
seth charged ahead , slicing thrashers and frost beasts .
i notched an arrow and released it .
it soared into a swamp toll 's head , making it shout out in agony .
seth spun around and plunged his sword into the troll 's side .
it gave a screech and fell to the floor , dead .
emily raised her hands and vines shot from the ground and wrapped around a troll that had tried to crush seth .
i aimed an arrow at its chest and the troll fell to the ground next to the others .
the last beast fell , dead from jason 's knife , and we all took in a deep breath .
seth sheathed his sword and i slung my bow back on my back .
emily sat on the ground next to jason , seth and me as the dwarf stood in front of us .
sadly , he started , i can not be with you all anymore .
i must leave and go back to her ...
wait a minute !
seth exclaimed , jumping up .
you 're leaving us ?
you little ... seth !
i protested and stepped in front of him .
do n't you dare think about killing him .
he got us here and he 's leaving us here in some random place when we have no clue what to do or where we 're going , seth interrupted me .
the dwarf shook his head .
i 'm very sorry , sir , but her majesty told me to bring you here and then to report back .
i must tell her about the ambush , someone knew i was bringing you here .
do n't you have to bring us to her ?
seth asked .
the dwarf cocked his head .
no , she will see you when she believes you are ready , he turned around and disappeared into the woods .
wait !
i yelled and ran after him .
wait , jazell , seth called after me and i heard him follow .
the trees parted and the dwarf stood in front of me .
he gave me a small smile .
i do wish you luck , miss .
i hope you survive .
please help us , i begged .
we need your help .
he shook his head .
i 'm very sorry , miss , but i ca n't .
he gave me another smile and was gone .
jazell , i heard emily say .
i turned around to see her smiling at me .
we 'll be fine .
emily 's right , seth said .
we do n't need him .
if he does n't want to help us then it 's his fault if we do n't get where we need to go .
we should find somewhere to stay for the night , jason suggested .
seth nodded and we followed him deeper into the dark woods .
i walked beside emily as the trees passed us .
things seemed to watch us from the shadows and i felt like some poor little kid who was afraid to be a victim of a halloween jump out of the bush scare trick .
i shivered in silent fear .
emily studied me , are you cold ?
do you need to get warmed up ?
a little flame of fire flickered to life in her palm .
i gave a shaky laugh .
no , i 'm not that kind of cold .
she put the little flame out .
ah , i know what you mean , she said and hugged me .
i 'm feeling the same way .
but do n't worry , they , she motioned to the boys , do n't have to know .
they 'll find out eventually , i mumbled .
but that does n't have to been now .
i bet they must have some kind of fear themselves .
i shivered .
it 's like going throw the bogey man 's home .
he must not get a lot of visitors , emily commented .
i 'm defiantly not coming over anytime soon .
emily laughed and the boys stopped walking .
the trees parted to reveal a rock ledge .
i spotted a small cave , the entrance covered in thick , twisted bramble .
the sky was getting even darker and more ominous when seth turned around to face us .
we 'll head for the cave and stay there for the night , seth said .
then we 'll set off .
emily crossed her arms .
who made you in charge ?
you have a better idea , emily ?
seth snorted .
or maybe you 'd prefer to sleep in the open .
uh i think i 'll stay with that plan , she said quickly .
but you 're a grump seth .
she pushed past him and headed the path to the cave .
you are , seth , i said .
i followed emily , with jason and seth on my heels .
when we reached the blocked cave entrance , seth drew his sword and sliced the vines apart .
they fell to the ground and the cave was revealed .
we walked inside the dimly lit space and i sighed in relief at some safety .
the air smelled musty and i had a feeling no one had ever been here .
i sat on the floor next to emily and the boys sat on the opposite side of the floor .
we should all get some rest , seth said with a yawn .
we can figure out what to do next when we wake up .
i nodded sleepily and laid down on the hard ground .
i closed my eyes , feeling a strange tiredness come over me .
i barely heard seth mumbled , i do n't like our situation at all .
that night , i had the weirdest dream .
i was standing on a dark cliff , the eerie moon high in the sky .
the wind whipped at my hair , causing me to see the green strands in front of my eyes .
the cold nipped at my cheeks and nose , which i tried to rub back to warmth .
i stood at the edge of the cliff and gasped when i looked down .
underneath me , hundreds of monsters gathered around a fight .
i couldnt see who was fighting inside because a swamp troll blocked my view , but i knew it was brutal the way they whooped at a screech of pain .
i wanted to close my eyes and look away , but i was so curious to see what was going on , that i couldnt .
the crowd parted to reveal the scariest and most hideous thing ive ever seen .
it must have been some type of faery because i could see long , pointed ears sticking up from the sides of its head .
long , black hair was stuck out in all directions on top of its head looking slimy and dirty .
sharp , twisted horns sat on top of its head , gleaming in the dark .
a long , billowing black cloak spiraled out behind it , completely covering the rest of its body .
its eyes shined red and full of hate , although there was a terrible smile that danced on its face .
victory !
it boomed in a chilling voice .
the crowds of monsters roared in applause and excitement .
the trolls banged their clubs on the ground , on their chests , and even on each other .
the howl of a frost beast rose into the night , making me feel even more chilled .
i wanted to wake up .
but i couldnt .
i needed to find out what that thing was and what it had killed .
i also had a horrible feeling , deep down that made me know that this wasnt a dream but some type of vision .
this was happening in real life , right now in igneeria .
that proved that igneeria had worse things to hide than what we thought was bad .
the thing walked forward and the crowd parted to make it a path , falling silent .
i find myself creeping back until i could barely see the scene below .
i was afraid that it would see me .
then i got a glimpse of what it had killed and i had to hold back my tears .
the poor body of the dwarf who had brought us here was lying in a contorted heap , limbs twisted in all directions .
the scene was awful and i had to prevent myself from throwing up .
then i knew why they beat and killed him .
all the other dwarves were on kojas .
this dwarf must have betrayed kojas to bring information to whoever her majesty was and to help us into igneeria .
i suddenly knew that this dwarf was much braver than we had given him credit for .
i suddenly felt awful because i knew who the thing was .
kojas .
chapter 7 the little traitor thought he could fool us , kojas announced , but he was wrong .
his death does not matter to me but what matters is what he could have said and done against us .
he may have spilled too much .
but it does not matter !
he continued , his voice flowing with reassurance .
i have knowledge that the half lings have entered our world and our grasp .
the dwarf may have done us a favor , bringing them here , without knowing it .
my help , my prize travels with them .
he will bring us to victory , the half ling boy !
the crowd roared louder than ever , fueled by the thought of victory .
anger rose inside me with every word kojas said .
seth would not help them and the dwarf did n't make a mistake .
the only one making the mistake was kojas .
the crowd fell silent as he said , we will find them and kill them .
than nothing will be in our way !
my disbelief grew and a single howl sounded above all .
i felt the ground disappear underneath me as i woke up to the safety of the cave .
i opened my eyes and had to squint because the light was so strong .
i sat up and leaned against the wall , looking around .
the sun shone brightly through the cave 's entrance , making dirt particles appear in the air .
seth was leaning on the wall , twirling his sword in the dirt , not appearing to notice that i was awake .
emily and jason were sitting in the center of the cave , playing some kind of hand game .
jason hit emily in the arm and she started yelling at .
so , this is typical thing to wake up to .
i stood up and walked over to seth .
he looked up from the ground and saw my troubled face .
what 's wrong , jazell ?
i need to speak to you , i said in a low voice , alone .
seth nodded in understanding and i followed him out of the cave .
we stood off to the side near the edge of the cliff where emily and jason could n't see us .
for a minute , i did n't say anything because i did n't know what to say .
i hesitated , but knew that if i told anyone about the dream , it would be seth .
so what was the point in waiting ?
i had a dream last night , i began .
only it was n't really a dream , but more of a vision .
seth nodded .
what was it about ?
i told him about the cliff and how kojas had killed the dwarf .
i hesitated but told him what kojas said about him too , and i saw him stiffen .
i 'm sorry , i found myself saying .
seth shook his head .
it 's not your fault that he said those things about me .
i 'm happy you did n't try to keep it from me .
what should we do ?
i asked desperately .
well we know that the dwarf is dead and that kojas knows we 're here , seth said .
we also know he 's going to be looking for all of us .
so ?
so ?
seth mimicked and smiled .
we do what we always do .
we 'll just step up our game and do a little more running than we 're used to .
no problem , right ?
ya , i said , feeling the fear creep up again .
no problem .
jazell , it 's okay to be scared , seth looked me in the eye .
i 'll admit to you , only you , that i 'm scared too .
no , i said with mock surprise .
you ?
scared ?
never .
he gave me a light shove .
hey smarty pants do n't be sarcastic with me .
i just gave you a huge secret .
i laughed and shoved him back , do n't tell me what to do , bossy .
well , he teased , at least i 'm not going around making fun of friends who are scared .
i opened my mouth to say something smart when i heard a small , ahem , at the cave entrance .
i looked over my shoulder to see emily standing there , leaning against the rock wall , smiling in a way that made you happy ... but scared .
i mentally braced myself for whatever was coming from my eavesdropping friend .
so , she said casually , what are you guys talking loudly about ?
uh ... was all my brain could compute .
luckily seth saved me .
what 's wrong with two crazy , half ling kids going outside in the morning because they 're both tired of listening to their other two friends bicker while they play hand games ?
well , you know it 's weird that you two are talking alone , without letting the rest of us know what it is , she shot back .
unless you two are hiding something from us ?
nice save , seth .
um ...
i said .
why would we hide anything from you two ?
emily put her hands on her hips .
i do n't know , but you two are acting like you are hiding something .
she stopped and gave me a wicked smile .
unless you two were not talking god no , emily !
i interrupted her .
no way , we were just trying to get away from you two because i just woke up and you guys are really loud first thing in the morning .
she sighed .
fine , do n't bite my head off jazell , i was just asking a question .
then she turned and disappeared back in the cave .
seth let out a huge breath .
wow , i 'm glad she left .
i had the feeling that she knew we were hiding something .
he hunched over me .
because we are .
do you think we should tell them about my vision ?
i asked .
he chewed his lip in frustration .
maybe we should , but not include the parts about me .
seth , i said slowly hoping he did n't get mad at me , we should tell them what 's going on with you eventually .
what if kojas comes for you and they have no clue why no !
he said sharply , and the tone of his voice surprised me .
i ca n't jazell , i would n't have told you if you had n't ran after me demanding to know what i was hiding .
but you 're happy i did , right ?
i asked .
he looked away .
yes i am .
it 's a lot better than hiding this on my own .
the secret just keeps getting bigger .
i rolled my eyes .
emily will find out eventually , and when she does , she 'll kill you for keeping a secret from her .
let 's hope it is n't until you and i figure this thing out .
i nodded and walked back into the cave .
emily and jason watched us enter and i swallowed nervously .
seth gave me a small nod , signaling me to start telling them about my dream .
listen guys , i had a dream , i said and repeated my dream again , minus the part about seth .
emily and jason listened to every word i said .
when i got to the part about kojas , emily 's mouth made a small o and jason 's eyes widened .
my voice shook as i recalled the dwarf 's dead body .
that 's awful !
emily said , her voice shaking .
she hopped over and gave me a small embrace .
i 'm sorry you had to see that .
uh ... thanks emily , i said and allowed myself to be hugged .
she bounced back over to jason 's side and waited for me to continue but there was nothing else to say .
i had told her everything i needed to tell her .
did she somehow know that i was n't telling her the whole story ?
i looked at seth out of the corner of my eye and saw him doing the same .
we needed to talk longer and more in depth about the situation we were sharing .
so , emily said and tapped her fingers on the cave wall , is that all ?
yes .
well then , she looked us in the eyes , what are we waiting for ?
let 's get a move on and leave this small , damp cave .
i shrugged and followed her out .
the sky was lit but still had a gloomy feeling mixed in with the warmth .
i felt a sense of dread as we entered the never ending forest again .
a few rays fought their way through the thick canopy of trees , making it possible to see what was around you .
seth led the way as we followed a faint path through the unknown .
i was bringing up the rear of the line , emily in front of me .
i watched her cloak swish around her ankles , the rhythm surprisingly soothing to me .
the silence was unnatural , and i felt like there should be some kind of sound .
i should n't have thought that .
out of nowhere i heard a single rattle .
then it suddenly stopped .
a feeling of unease rose inside of me but i kept walking .
then another rattle that did n't end sounded , vibrating all around us .
another seemed to join it , then another and another until the noise was unbearably loud .
sick , quiet laughter sounded all around us .
it giggled and laughed in amusement , shrieking at us .
the laughter stopped , but the rattle did n't .
but whatever it was , it surrounded us .
the four of us pressed together .
this is the prey ?
a rake like voice cackled .
this is nothing !
i saw seth draw his sword and the rest of us readied our weapons .
i gripped my bow so hard that i was afraid it might break in two .
i heard more screechy laughter .
easy kill , another agreed .
no challenge , something else piped up .
the king under estimates our abilities .
it laughed .
a voice hissed , we will show him .
this was seriously starting to freak me out .
it was like the dead were talking to me , and i shivered .
then i saw them .
they slithered from the shadows of the trees and bushes .
there hundreds of them , each easily my height .
they were covered in black , grey green scales that were each the size of my hand .
they were layered on its body like plated armor .
their beady dark , red eyes sent shivers down my spine .
i slung my bow back over my shoulder and grabbed my hunter 's knife from its sheath on my side .
one stopped and raised its head up towards me .
it opened its mouth to reveal rows of sharp , yellow fangs .
a chuckle escaped its mouth .
what are you going to do with that , half ling ?
it said with a voice that sent needles into my skin .
a knife wo n't do a thing against something like me .
i almost listened to the thing and started to lower my weapon but i caught myself .
my hands started to shake .
its eyes glistened with hunger .
you ca n't even hold a weapon .
so how are you going to save your friends ?
i did n't know what it was talking about until i looked over .
seth was stiff and frozen , his eyes following one of the snake creatures that was climbing its way up his leg .
it twisted itself around his arm and brushed onto his neck .
seth swung his sword at the back of the snake but there was a flash and it sliced his arm instead .
he winced and dropped his weapon .
the snake had wrapped around his neck and was squeezing .
i gripped my knife but stopped when the creature snickered from the ground .
i would n't do that if i were you , it said .
that would n't be wise .
why ?
i demanded .
it would n't be right to help seth ?
it hissed in laughter .
no , half ling .
if you have n't realized it yet , we change our shapes .
your friend already hurt himself learning that .
seth was n't looking so good .
he was bent over and was grabbing at his neck .
i then realized that the snake was now a smaller brown colored snake and had its whole body wrapped completely around his neck .
i had an awful feeling that i could n't help seth without hurting him .
i was helpless .
emily and jason were farther off fighting their own swarm .
i could see from here that they were slowly losing too .
emily continued to try to fry the creatures or knock them away with air , but it was n't really working .
i kept seeing jason 's knives fly off into the woods , or sink into the ground , instead of hitting their mark .
and now half ling , it whispered with joy , you die .
it lunged up at me .
i had a sudden feeling inside and i stabbed at the creature .
it tried to change forms to avoid the knife 's path but somehow my knife stabbed it anyway .
it withered and then went still .
i gasped as the body fell to the ground and even some of the creatures , around stopped .
they murmured among each other , she killed a syphon !
she killed one of us .
so the awful creatures were called syphons ?
what did they want ?
i made a mental note to tell emily about this .
that is , if all of us didnt die first .
they screeched in anger and i felt their eyes on me .
every single one was full of burning hatred .
but i ignored the feeling and focused on seth .
his eyes locked on mine as he wheezed and he sent me a clear message , help .
not that i needed his permission anyway , it 's just seth never asked for help .
i , again , suddenly knew the syphon 's weakness but i did n't know why or how .
i could sense some dark black area on the neck just like a target dot .
i stabbed it and the creature gave a dying hiss , falling to the ground too .
seth rubbed his neck and grabbed his sword .
thanks jazell .
no problem , i said .
want to rescue the others ?
seth grinned , sure , jason is n't going to be happy about me saving his butt .
well he can deal , i said and walked quickly towards emily and jason .
we better hurry .
i reached emily in a few , quick strides , stabbing some syphons that were trying to attack her .
she looked up at me and opened her mouth to ask me how the heck i did that but i shook my head .
i 'd explain the unexplainable later .
aim for the neck !
i shouted to the both of them .
it 's their weak point .
they both nodded in agreement .
jason spun around and began to stab them as i suggested .
he ducked and i say their number start to drop because of his quick reflexes .
the swarm 's size was reduced to half .
the syphons were starting to look uneasy , hesitating before they flung themselves at us .
it did n't matter to me .
retreat !
one of the voices yelled .
fall back !
they gave one more angry hiss at us and disappeared into the woods .
the bushes and trees rattled and then the woods were silent .
i could hear everyone 's heavy breaths as we turned to face each other .
well , actually everyone turned to me .
so , i said and wiped the sweat off my knife 's handle , that was something , was n't it ?
emily put her hands on her hips .
jazell , how the heck did you know how to kill those things ?
she shook her head .
what were those things ?
syphons , i said .
i do n't know how i knew where to stab them .
i just did , alright ?
it was weird .
seth shook his head and leaned against a tree .
how come you get some random power when the rest of us do n't ?
he gave me a fake pout .
it 's not fair .
i leaned against the tree next to him and rammed my elbow into his side .
he winced and i grinned .
i did n't ask for the power , seth .
but it did save our butts so i 'm happy , i magically gained it .
well i hope i get some cool power too , emily said and stretched .
whatever , jason said and twirled a knife in his hand .
he seemed to go back to say a few words and then say nothing which drives everyone crazy .
emily made a face at him .
wow , thanks so much for the support , jason .
that speech was incredible .
jason stuck his tongue out .
you 're welcome .
one day , she mumbled .
one darn day ... emily , are you okay ?
i asked .
her head shot up and she gave me a big smile .
yup , never better .
i 'm just having a minute to myself .
okay ...
i trailed off .
seth walked over to join us .
we should get moving and find somewhere else to stay .
if we stay and argue in the forest , something worse is bound to find us .
right , lead the way , i said and pushed off the tree .
seth nodded and i walked beside him as he led us , once again , through the woods .
emily and jason were talking quietly about something which gave us both the opportunity to talk .
you think kojas sent them ?
i mumbled to him and pushed a branch away .
he looked at me from the corner of his eye .
obviously , why else would they say that the 'king ' would underestimate them ?
you make a good point , i said .
why did the syphon attack you ?
i lowered my voice so only he could hear me .
i thought you said they would n't attack you .
he looked uneasy .
the syphon said he would be rewarded for grabbing me .
i think he was n't trying to kill me but trying to knock me out .
so he could bring you to kojas .
he nodded but he seemed somewhere else .
he sighed and said , i hope they wo n't go too far to achieve that , or it 'll get harder to hide this from emily and jason .
i crossed my arms .
i told you that we should tell them .
but you still refuse to let me no , he said sternly .
no and that 's that .
fine , i said and threw my arms in the air .
i give up .
at least i tried but you 're just too stinking stubborn .
seth flashed me a smile .
it 's what you love the most about me .
i punched him in the arm .
who said i loved anything about you .
maybe i like puppies more .
at least they listen , mostly .
ow , that hurts , he said and clutched his side .
i laughed and felt the world brighten a bit .
you 're so annoying .
you can add that to the list .
you just love to insult me , seth grinned .
is it your new hobby ?
it will be if you keep annoying me , i fought the urge to punch him again .
he just rolled his eyes at me .
he really is the most annoying person i 've ever met besides emily and myself .
wow , he was going to have us both beat .
i 'm sorry to interrupt your playful banter , but are we actually looking for a place in particular or just some random cave ?
emily 's annoyed voice asked us from behind .
yes , just a random cave or a place to stay .
why ?
seth asked , just as annoyed .
well , she said , a cave wo n't be found in a forest , so should n't we be finding a way out of the forest ?
i know that , emily , he said and pointed to the trees .
can you find a way out ?
it just goes on and on .
i 'm hoping that we find a clearing soon .
fine , she said and crossed her arms , i 'm sorry i interrupted your conversation .
then she started talking to jason again .
seth made a cat noise and clawed the air , someone 's a pussy cat today .
be quiet seth or she 'll hurt you , i said and looked over my shoulder .
emily seemed to have heard that and she winked at me .
i smiled and winked back .
seth i 'd be really careful .
seth snorted , i 'm not scared of her .
i would be , i said and had to fight another smile .
i could tell it was getting past noon because the air started to get cooler .
i was suddenly really jealous of emily 's long robe .
i also was getting hungry and wondered if there was any way to get food in igneeria .
a huge rumble startled me and i looked up at the sky .
we were in a clearing and i could see the sky clearly .
dark clouds covered the sky and a rumble shook the air again .
a single drop of water landed on my cheek .
oh no , i breathed .
another drop landed on my forehead and then on my chin .
then they started to pick up speed and i covered my face with my hands .
the rain streaked through my hair , soaking it to my head .
seth looked extremely annoyed as he stood there , his blue hair plastered to his face .
his eyes were half covered by his hair and his eyes locked onto mine .
he rolled his eyes and looked away .
jason had his arms over his head , trying to keep the rain off his red hair but i already saw dark spots all over it where the rain had escaped his arms .
emily 's pink hair was dry and safely under a hood .
wait , what ?
emily , how come you have a hood ?
i had to shout over the rain .
she gave me a dazzling smile .
i 'm always prepared .
this is just great , seth shouted .
we better find some shelter because the rest of us are getting soaked to the bone .
i 'll take the lead , i said and ran in front of him .
you 'll lead us into a dragon 's cave if you take the lead .
seth rolled his eyes again .
fine !
i walked through the trees and took a right .
the trees parted and the trees ended .
right ahead of me was a cave .
found a cave , that was n't too hard seth , i said .
right , he said .
so what are we waiting for ?
let 's go !
i ran towards the cave , eager to get out of the rain and into somewhere dry .
i stopped in front to catch my breath .
emily , jason , and seth ran up behind me and we stared into the cave .
i took a deep breath and started to enter the cave .
all of a sudden , a roar made me freeze .
two nostrils and eyes popped up from the cave .
my blood stopped .
it was a dragon .
chapter 8 i stood , frozen in fear at the sight of the dragon .
it stalked towards me .
the piercing green eyes bore into mine and i was more scared than i had ever been in all 15 years of my life .
jazell move !
seth yelled and pushed me behind him so hard , i almost fell over .
i caught myself and pulled out my bow , notching an arrow .
we all tensed , prepared for a fight .
all of a sudden , emily walked towards the dragon .
seth yelled at her to get back but she ignored him .
she stood right in front of its head and opened her mouth , bizarre sounds started coming out .
we all stood there mesmerized as she grunted , growled , snorted and hissed at the dragon .
i expected it to just take a huge bite out of her , but it seemed as surprised as we were .
emily , what 's going on ?
i shouted to her and started to walk over .
seth reached out and grabbed my arm .
i spun around , suddenly annoyed .
he shook his head and nodded over to the dragon .
i looked and to my surprise it was bending down to let emily stroke its head .
she patted its head and it curled up outside the cave .
she bent down to whisper something in its ear and then stood up again .
well , she said looking at us , what are you waiting for ?
she disappeared in the cave .
then she poked her head out .
come on !
we walked slowly into the cave .
i glanced over at the dragon , which was now asleep and making small puffs of smoke in the rain .
i sat on the cold stone floor , shivering .
i was soaked to the skin and my hair was completely plastered to my head .
seth sat next to me and i could see he was shivering too .
jason slid down the wall across from us with his eyes closed .
i never want to walk again , he mumbled .
never .
you 're going to have to , dude .
we have a lot of walking left to do , seth said wearily .
jason groaned and circled up against the wall .
emily pulled her hood off and examined herself .
she mumbled something and squeezed her sleeves .
i feel so heavy and gross .
jason 's eyes popped open .
why are you complaining ?
you 're freaking dryer than all of us and you got some awesome power , too .
you ca n't complain .
language jason , she scolded .
i hate even being a tad wet so i feel like complaining .
i just do , so deal .
jason scowled and closed his eyes again .
i 'm sleeping and if anyone wakes me up and it 's not to kill something , i 'll stab them with my dagger .
wow you 're just a sparkly rainbow today , i said .
emily shook her head .
he 's just a fat crab .
maybe i am , jason said , deal .
emily sat near the entrance of the cave .
i heard jason 's breathing slow down which met he was sleeping .
i found myself pressing my shoulder to seth 's , trying to find warmth .
heat flowed into my shoulder but it was n't much .
oh well , you ca n't always be satisfied .
emily , how did you keep that dragon from attacking us ?
i asked .
you were making funny sounds that made no sense to me .
she looked puzzled .
what do you mean , i was speaking english and so was the dragon .
i shook my head .
no you were n't , you were making grunting and growling sounds .
that 's odd , i did n't think i was , she said .
i told the dragon that we were four half lings who needed shelter from the rain .
then he asked if we were against kojas and i said yes , that he was hunting us .
then he told me that he would let us use his cave because he was on our side .
then i thanked him and here we are , inside the cave nice and dry .
maybe that 's your power , you can speak to dragons , seth suggested .
but i do n't understand how you two get powers and we do n't .
be patient , i said .
yes , emily murmured and stifled a yawn .
girls first , seth .
have a problem with that ?
all right then , he said and leaned against the wall .
sweet dreams to you two .
yup sweet dreams to us , i said and closed my eyes .
goodnight emily .
goodnight jazell .
i drifted off , feeling surprising comfy against seth 's shoulder and hearing jason softy snore .
i opened my eyes to see myself standing in the woods .
the sky saw clearer and it was n't raining anymore .
it was eerie quiet and as i stood there it felt like i had never left the woods .
i heard a voice whispering one word over and over again .
jazell ... what ?
i called .
what do you want ?
jazell ... the voice whispered again .
jazell .
what ?
i screamed into the trees .
what do you want ?
why do you have to repeat my name over and over again , it 's creepy .
jazell , beware , it whispered again .
beware .
i stomped my foot in frustration and yelled , beware of what ?
beware , it mumbled back .
beware of the shadows .
what ?
i said , startled .
i know how scary shadows are and i do n't need you to tell me that .
jazell ... that 's it , i said angrily .
i 'm getting an answer for once .
i ran towards the voice , which was hard because it sounded like it was everywhere .
a bright light flashed and i saw a ghost like girl disappear in the darkness .
my eyes widened as i saw seth and then darkness .
but not before the voice said one more thing .
beware of each other .
i opened my eyes and shot up so fast my head collided with seth 's .
i clutched my head and said , ow .
seth stretched his arm to rub his eyes .
what 's wrong ?
he asked .
i shook my head .
nothing .
i looked at the beads of sweat on his forehead .
what 's wrong with you ?
nothing , he said .
i 'm just hot because when someone sleeps on someone else , that person kind of gets hot .
what do you mean ?
he shook his arm .
you fell asleep leaning against my arm .
were you cold ?
my face went red .
i did n't mean to , sorry .
it 's not a problem , at least no one was cold , he said .
i need to tell you something , i said .
i had another dream and i saw you in it .
it was kind of spooky , actually .
really , he said .
you were in my dream too .
there was a voice calling my name , i said , remembering the creepy dream .
it was saying to beware of the shadows .
then i saw this ghost like girl before i saw you .
then i woke up .
seth nodded .
mine was calling my name too and said to beware of the shadows .
but i saw a ghost like boy instead .
then i saw a glimpse of you and then i woke up .
who do you think they were ?
i asked .
the ghost kids .
i do n't know but i have a feeling that they were n't on kojas ' side , he replied .
i glanced over at emily and jason , making sure they were still sleeping .
why do you think they were in our dreams ?
was the 'beware of the shadows ' that important ?
does any of this ever make sense to us ?
seth asked with a shrug .
we just wait it out like we always do .
emily groaned and stretched .
she opened her eyes , squinting at the two of us .
morning .
good morning emily , sleep well ?
i asked , wondering if she had the same type of dream as we did .
she shrugged .
i slept soundly , why ?
nothing , just curious .
okay , she stood up and tip toed towards jason .
now the best part , waking up the grump .
she bent over close to his ear .
she took in a deep breath and then yelled at the top of her lungs , pie !
jason jumped up so fast that emily had to jump back to avoid getting hit in the head .
he almost fell backward but he steadied himself against the wall .
one of his knives slid into his hand but by the time he realized what was going on , we were all laughing hard i was getting the hiccups .
jason panted out each word , that ... is ... not ... funny !
he glared at emily so hard she must of thought that he had laser eyes .
emily was holding herself and trying to stop laughing so she could speak .
i 'm sorry jason ... but you were such a grouch yesterday ... we had to get you back !
i will get you back , jason said angrily .
i will .
okay jason , i hiccupped .
but you 're going to have to wait a while .
dude that was hilarious , seth choked out and had a smile on his face the size of the cave .
i 'm surprised you did n't scream like a little girl .
but you did jump like one .
jason 's face went red .
i thought i 'd get some support from you , seth .
he crossed his arms .
you might be next , you know .
seth shrugged .
maybe , but i do n't care .
we all need a good laugh to keep our spirits up and if that means scaring the crap out of me , i 'm fine with it .
so you 'll be fine with me dragging you outside while you were sleeping and leaving you in the rain ?
emily asked .
seth narrowed his eyes .
no , i 'd be cold , wet and annoyed .
you can do that if you feel like having me be grouchy all day .
nah , emily said .
i do n't think it would be worth it .
are we just going to sit here and talk or are we going to get a move on ?
i asked .
alright then , emily said and walked out of the cave .
if you want to go in the dreary woods so bad , we 'll go .
jason walked after her , shoulders hunched .
i went to follow him when seth said , we should tell them about our dreams .
i turned around and faced him .
we should , they need to know in case they have ones like ours .
seth nodded and followed me as we joined everyone else outside .
emily waited for us and then headed into the woods .
she waved to the dragon and we disappeared once more .
i stared off into the trees , waiting for seth 's cue to tell them about the ghost kids .
seth raised his hand , signaling for us to stop .
he put a finger to his lips and pointed in front of him .
i crept up and peered at where he was pointing .
a bunch of dwarves and tall , muscular men crowded around something .
the men had double swords sheathed on their back , long ears , and long black hair .
they were wearing some type of combat boots and thick coats .
one of them moved and i saw a tied dragon staked to the ground .
it continued to try to stand but it seemed to weak and fell back down .
i heard emily gasp in horror and i felt the same way .
one of the men poked it in the side with the butt of his sword and the dragon grunted in pain .
i looked over my shoulder at emily .
she looked like she was about to start crying any second .
seth drew his sword and crouched down .
he shuffled forward and motioned for us to follow .
we slid through the trees as quietly as we could .
i kept my eye on the faery men , waiting for one of them to turn around and notice us hiding in the trees .
i ducked behind a tree and looked over just in time to see emily trip and fall out of her bush .
the faery and dwarves looked at her in surprise .
i guess theyve never seen a teenage half ling girl fall out of a bush before .
am i interrupting something ?
emily asked with a gulp .
the faery men drew their double swords and charged at her .
i released an arrow and it buried itself in one of their necks .
it fell backward and they turned to my hiding spot , searching for me .
two knives flew and a dwarf and man collapsed on the ground .
i saw jason hide behind his tree again .
one dwarf got too close to emily and she raised her arms , dousing him in flames .
he screeched and fell to the ground , withering and then went still .
seth ran from the trees , brandishing his sword .
he swung it around and clashed with one of the faery 's swords .
the faery brought the other around and seth twisted to avoid it .
he grabbed the blade and flung it out of the man 's arms .
he roared angrily and threw his sword down on seth , who raised his up to block it .
seth pushed back , but i could see him shaking .
right when i thought he was winning , my mouth dropped open .
time seemed to slow as one of the other faery guys ran over to seth and the one he was locked with .
the faery raised one of the hilts of his sword and brought it down on seth .
it collided with his head and seth dropped his sword .
he crumpled to ground and did n't move .
seth !
i screamed .
he did n't move and one of the faery men reached down to grab him but i screeched , leave him alone !
and sent an arrow into the guy 's neck .
i heard jason yell in rage and they started to drop like stones .
emily raised her arms and the ground shook under a faery .
roots twisted upward and wrapped around one of the five faery men that were left .
the other four fell dead from my arrows and jason 's knives .
i ran out from behind the tree and stormed over to the squirming faery man .
or i should to call them faery jerks now .
i grabbed his coat and forced him to look at me .
he smirked and i could n't hold back the urge to slap him .
i slapped my hand across his face so hard it left a mark on his cheek .
start talking , i snarled .
who are you guys and what are you doing ?
the faery jerk smirked again .
we 're part of kojas ' personal guard .
we were sent to look for you half lings .
well i want you to know something , i said and got closer to his face .
we will win this fight , mark my words .
kojas is going down , way down if you know what i mean .
well , he said , if you let me go i 'll give him your message .
i do n't think so , i whispered .
you can tell him when he joins you .
i rammed my knife into his stomach and pulled it out .
the faery 's eyes rolled upward and he went still .
i wiped my knife on my pants and sheathed it .
i ran over to jason , who was crouched over the unconscious seth .
jason looked up and i saw his face was full of concern .
can you help emily , she 's trying to release the trapped dragon , i whispered to him .
jason nodded .
will do jazell .
he stood up and walked over to emily .
i sat on the ground next to seth .
his eyes were closed and he looked dead .
his blue hair was ruffled up in all directions .
i was so sure that he might be dead that i placed a hand on his chest , feeling for a heartbeat .
i felt the steady thump under my fingers and i sighed in relief .
i removed my hand and looked over at emily .
they had freed the dragon and they both were petting its head .
it stretched its wings and they both had to duck to avoid being hit .
seth , i whispered , this is what i meant when i said things would get bad if we did n't tell them .
i looked back at my two friends , who were laughing .
i mean they are our friends , best buds , you get my drift .
i understand that you 're scared and worried but so am i. i 'm scared that if i 'm the only one who knows about this , i wo n't be enough to help you .
jazell , i understand now .
i 'm sorry i was such a jerk , i should have listened to you .
i turned back around to see seth 's eyes watching me .
he was clutching his head and groaning .
i gave him a hand and he grabbed it .
i helped him sit up and handed him his sword .
he laid it across his lap and looked at the ground .
i 'm glad that you 're okay and that you 've finally through your stubbornness , i said and gave him a small smile .
i just do n't know what to tell them .
well , tell them everything , i said .
start in the beginning and do n't hold anything back .
if you do , i 'll tell them the rest .
seth !
jason said and ran over .
you 're awake , man !
yes and i feel like crap , he said .
i think that if i try to stand up i 'll either pass out or throw up .
will you be okay flying ?
emily asked .
what ?
i asked .
flying ?
what do you mean 'flying ' , emily ?
our new dragon friend offered to fly us out of the woods region and towards more of the mountains .
i said yes , of course , because i do n't want to walk the whole way there , she explained and walked towards the dragon .
i guess ... seth said and stood up .
he paled and started to sway .
jason grabbed his shoulder to steady him .
thanks jason , he panted .
take it easy , seth .
we can wait a minute if you need to rest , but seth shook his head .
no let 's move now .
emily , tell us what to do .
alright , boss , she said sarcastically .
everyone come over .
we walked over to her and the dragon with seth leaning on jason .
the dragon was lying on the ground , watching us closely .
its long , leathery wings were tucked neatly on each of its sides .
it snorted as emily climbed onto its back .
i stared at her , starting to think she was a little crazy .
come on !
she said and patted the dragon 's back .
do you think that you 're too heavy ?
well , you are n't , so get on his back .
i walked over and climbed onto the dragon 's back .
jason half hauled seth on the dragon 's back , and seth almost fell on me .
he grunted a sorry and pushed himself up in sitting position .
jason hopped on last and gave emily two thumbs up .
alright , she called .
lets move !
the dragon stretched up and i bounced around for a second .
it opened its huge wings and launched itself into the air .
if youre thinking of trying dragon riding as a hobby , i wouldnt .
i fell backwards and landed on seth who snapped at me to get off .
i couldnt move because we were still going up and if you paid attention in science class , this is usually when you cant move .
its called gravity .
the dragon righted itself and i scrambled back into sitting position .
we were gliding high up in the eerie sky and the view was actually beautiful .
the trees looked like an endless sea of lush green and the sun peeked out from behind the clouds .
i felt the urge to hold my arms out like they do in those movies so i could feel the wind on my arms .
it was already making my hair flap all over the place .
i heard seth huff out and i turned .
he gave me a face and said , your hair keeps getting in my face .
i turned back around .
deal .
we turned in the air and i could see the mountains in the distance .
they were small but were growing fast as we neared them .
i could feel the dragons muscles pump underneath my legs .
small gusts of air rolled off the dragons wings that blew emilys hair in her face .
i smiled as she raked the pink strands out of her mouth .
we dipped down and i felt the stomach in your chest feeling you usually get from rollercoasters .
i closed my eyes and tried to ignore it but i couldnt .
i hated this feeling just as much as i hated puking , and the chills that liked to run up my spine at random times .
then all of a sudden , the dragon stopped .
my eyes opened in horror as i saw the small trickle of blood fall from a hole in the right wing .
then we started to fall .
chapter 9 i screamed so loud that my ears felt like they were going to pop .
we plummeted to the ground , falling closer and closer oh man , i thought and closed my eyes .
dont look , dont look , dont look really !
seth yelled at the sky .
this brings new meaning to things cant get any worse !
i gripped furiously to the limp dragon .
i was falling to my death so this is how it was going to end .
i never pictured it this way i thought i would die a little more heroically , not screaming like a little girl .
not now seth , emily screamed at him .
everyone think !
how can i think , i screeched back , when the ground is rushed towards me at full speed ?
i dont know jazell , just think if you want to live , she said quickly .
i let out another scream as my body tipped towards the edge of the dragon .
i felt someone wrap their arm around me and i gave a grunt as i was pulled upright .
seth held me , his arm stiff and somewhat uncomfortable .
i was frozen in fear , realizing that i hated falling .
this was worse than my fear of rollercoasters .
calm down , seth said to me .
youre not going to fall what do you mean , seth ?
i said in a panicked voice .
were freaking falling right now !
emily looked at us and she tried to hide the fear in her face .
the dragon is going to pull its wings around us to protect us from falling but its going to make us fall faster .
make sure you hold on to something or get in the center .
seth pressed himself against me and we leaned closer to the dragons back .
jason tucked his arms under him and emily pressed next to him .
then , as if on cue , the dragon tucked its great wings over us , blocking out the sky and we began to really fall .
i screamed louder and sunk deeper into seth , trying to forget that we were falling at about 90 miles per hour without a parachute .
every second felt like an hour .
i squeezed my eyes in an effort to make it all go away .
make it stop , make it stop seth gave me a comforting squeeze but it didnt help .
i tried to think of something else , like penguins or llamas .
anything , i didnt care what i thought about , it could be underwear , as long as i wasnt thinking about what was actually happening to me right now .
llamas , i thought urgently .
llamas are furry and they spit at you when theyre mad .
theyre the joke of most middle school kids , theyre talli think .
you can see them at parks or zoos .
they tend to try to steal your dads hat at the zoo .
they can be black , brown , and white .
i dont think there are pink or purple or green llamas out there unless you dye them .
i saw a llama once when i was , six at the zoo , and it stole dads hat .
they had to send a park ranger to get it back because dad really liked that hat a bone shaking bang scattered my thoughts .
pain shot through my side .
we rolled over and i fell on top of seth and then we both landed on jason .
emily landed on us and we all tumbled onto hard ground .
i didnt move .
instead i stared at the sky trying to understand how i wasnt dead .
i just was hurting all over and my back felt like i was run over by a car .
i sat up and my back cried out in protest .
i pushed myself into sitting position and crawled over to seth .
he had his arms behind his head and was staring at the sky .
he smiled at me when he saw me .
you okay ?
you freaked out before , he asked , his voice full of concern .
i nodded and answered shakily , you know that i hate falling .
you must have been scared too .
he hesitated .
yes , i was , but i think i was more concerned that you would wake the dead with your screams and they would attack us too .
i smacked him lightly on the arm and laid down next to him .
i stared at the sky .
so where are we ?
well , our winged friend managed to get us out of the woods and near the mountains .
you can see them over there .
he pointed off in the distance and i spotted the mountains towering above everything else .
thats good , at least all of this wasnt for nothing .
he sighed and closed his eyes .
yes , i did n't lose my hearing for nothing , because i had to listen to you scream .
are you ever going to drop that ?
i asked .
seth smirked .
nope , it 's going to haunt you for the rest of your life .
he made ghost sounds .
wait , i said suddenly , were n't you going to tell emily and jason about you know what ?
what ?
seth asked lazily and plucked at the grass .
i sat up and glared at him .
what do you mean , 'what ' ?
you said you were going to tell them !
i 'm going to tell them if you are n't .
i stood up , but seth was faster .
he grabbed my arm .
i stood there and stared at him .
please jazell , let me tell them myself , he begged .
i waited for him to let go , but his grip stayed firm and strong .
i stared at him .
fine but i 'm tired of waiting , seth .
i know , i promise i 'll tell them , he stood up , his grip still tight .
i just do n't think now is the right time .
after something like falling out of the sky , i do n't want to bring more bad news .
i sighed .
alright , i 'll leave this to you .
but i swear ...
i will , i promise you !
he interrupted me .
i believe you , seth , i whispered .
now are you good and clear ?
seth stared at me , looked down at my arm and let go .
he brushed his dirty hair away from his eyes and looked around .
i blinked and shook my head .
jazell !
seth !
i turned around and waved .
emily was running over with jason on her heels .
she slowed down and hugged me tight .
jason slapped seth on the back and bent over to catch his breath .
hey , where were you guys ?
i asked .
we were looking around to see if it was safe , emily said .
we thought you two were doing the same .
she put her hands on her hips .
i guess not .
are you going to get mad at me ?
i pouted .
she play punched me in the arm .
no , i 'll let it slide .
she winked at me .
i looked over at seth , trying to catch his eye but he avoided my gaze .
jason started talking to seth and the two whispered so we could n't hear .
emily rolled her eyes .
so did you find anything ?
i asked and traced the dirt with my foot .
emily shook her head .
nothing , we 're alone .
maybe we can try to get somewhere without bad guys jumping out at us .
we should move , before something does find us .
whatever knocked us out of the sky is n't going to be friendly if they find us again , i pointed out .
let 's move boys , we have a lot more walking to do .
jason groaned .
why ca n't they have cars in igneeria ?
or maybe a motorcycle , i 'm even fine with a golf cart .
because , i said and walked past him , not looking back , igneerians are n't lazy jason 's .
i heard him huff and emily ran up beside me .
good thinking , she said .
the girls should take control .
i shrugged .
i guess if that 's what you want to do .
thankfully , there were no trees anywhere except one .
the ground was mostly dirt and rock , easier to walk on .
the mountains loomed ahead of us and something tingled down my spine .
something was going to happen in those mountains , i just knew .
the sky was clearer here and also more windy .
the wind tugged at my hair and clothes as i walked .
i had to keep squinting to see through my hair .
i felt a tap on my shoulder and i looked over .
emily held her hand out .
here jazell , use this to keep your hair out of your face , she opened her hand and dropped something in my palm .
i held it up .
it was a thin , vine that was about a foot long .
it felt like a ribbon to me and i shrugged .
i do n't usually wear ribbons and bows that was emily 's style .
i pulled my hair back and tied the vine .
it kept my hair out of my face and acted like a rubber band .
thanks emily , i said .
she finished tying her hair back .
no problem .
we should look for somewhere to stay for the night .
i looked around , but everywhere was bare ground , hill after hill .
i do n't see any caves .
we 'll just have to sleep in the open , she stated and pointed to a huge tree .
we 'll sleep under that tree .
okay , i said , a little disappointed .
seth , jason , we 're going to sleep over here .
jason sighed in relief and we all gathered around the bottom of the tree .
i stretched and leaned against the trunk of the tree , happy for the silence .
but , of course , that never lasts around here .
hey , did n't we stop the water war ?
emily asked .
we never got to finish it and see who would win .
jason laughed .
yes , we did , that 's right !
it does n't matter though seth and i would have won anyway .
no , she said , staring him down .
we would win because we 're awesome .
no we would win because we 're awesome !
jason argued .
oh boy , what did the two start ?
i asked seth .
this is going to go on and on and on and on ...
i get it , he interrupted me .
this is never going to end .
we 'll be up all night .
unless you interrupt them and tell them about your secret , i said .
seth looked down .
you want them to kill me ?
maybe i 'll tell them in the morning when they are n't so crabby .
you better , i snapped and stared at emily and jason .
they were still bickering .
i felt something on my hand and i looked down .
seth had wound his fingers in mine .
his touch was gentle and cool , kind of reassuring .
my mind blanked .
i was holding hands with seth .
i never thought that would happen .
seth smiled sheepishly .
jazell , you should just relax .
let them bicker all they want we do n't have to be a part of it .
get some sleep .
my mind was still slow , trying to process why he was holding my hand .
i blinked and nodded .
alright but if it starts getting crazy , wake me up .
wake you up ?
he asked and laughed .
i 'm sleeping too .
if it gets crazy , they 'll wake us up .
okay , i said and yawned .
i leaned my head against the tree and closed my eyes .
the world seemed to fade around me , along with the bickering and seth 's hand , as i fell asleep .
i opened my eyes to see that i was in a cave .
i peered at the entrance of the cave to see that outside it was dark .
i walked toward the entrance when something stopped me .
do n't go into the shadows , jazell , a familiar voice said .
it was the voice from my last dream .
i whirled around in a circle , looking for the source of the voice .
there was nothing here .
who are you ?
i asked , trying to calm down .
can i trust you ?
trust me like your shadow , the voice said again .
but you said to beware of shadows , i said .
so does that mean i ca n't trust you ?
you know your shadow , there is a difference , the voice said again .
i shook my head .
this is confusing , why do n't you understand that ?
there was a pause .
i do understand i hated it too .
all the annoying riddles but that 's the way it 's supposed to be .
then the voice said stronger , look behind you .
i turned back around to see the inside of the cave .
a girl was walking towards me , the same one i saw last time .
she didnt like it because i was staring at her , but i could n't help it .
she stopped in front of me .
you 're not supposed to see me yet , she said and sighed .
oh well , i never was one to follow the rules .
who are you ?
she shook her head .
i ca n't tell you yet .
that 's one rule i 'm not going to break .
i opened my mouth but she shook her head .
do n't ask what my name is or why i 'm talking to you , because i ca n't answer either of those questions .
what can you tell me then ?
i can tell you that i 'm not an enemy , she said .
i can also tell you to be careful about kojas he 's tricky and will use your emotions against you .
he 'll find a way to get you to come to him instead of him coming to you .
she huffed , coward .
how do you know ?
she smiled sadly .
let 's just say i know what i 'm talking about .
be careful and keep your friends close .
the four of you were chosen because of your unbreakable bond , but even that can be broken .
you are strongest when you are together , so dont let yourselves be separated .
would n't it be called 'an breakable bond ' , then ?
i asked her .
she laughed but then grew serious .
be very careful .
we all know that we picked the right four , but it would be a shame if something happened to all of you before you could complete your goal .
that got my attention .
you know how we became half lings ?
you know who attacked us that day ?
i 've said too much already , she said and backed up .
i must go .
wait !
i called .
wait tell me what 's going on !
tell me what we 're supposed to do !
but she was already gone .
i opened my eyes and the cold of the morning bit at my cheeks .
seth was fast asleep next to me , his blue hair covering half his face .
emily was curled up a few feet away from me .
jason turned in his sleep , mumbling something unintelligent .
i needed to talk to someone , but everyone was sleeping .
i pushed seth over and his eyes flew open .
his hand went to his sword but he saw me and he relaxed .
what was the point of pushing me over , jazell ?
well , it seemed better than punching you in the side .
were you dreaming ?
i asked .
he shook his head .
just a bunch of nonsense i do n't even remember .
why , did you get another vision ?
yes , i said .
it was with the same voice that was in my last dream .
only this time , i talked to the ghost girl .
you did ?
what did she say ?
she hinted that she knew who made us this way and who attacked us that day , i said .
she also said that kojas would use our emotions against us and try to get us to come to him .
something dark crossed seth 's face .
she also said that we were chosen because of our strong bond , but she said , not to test it , i continued .
she also told me not to go into the shadows .
seth stretched .
so the usual confusion ?
i got more this time , seth .
anyway , do you have any information to offer here ?
i asked with an edge to my voice .
seth put his arms in surrender .
hey , do n't start yelling at me .
we were getting a long pretty well last night , let 's keep it that way .
i felt my face flush when i remembered last night .
yes , you 're right .
i was eager to change the subject so i said , are you going to tell them when they wake up ?
yes i will , jazell .
i promised .
i sighed in relief .
good ...
i heard a loud yawn and emily stretched her arms in the air .
she stood up and walked the couple of feet over to me and stopped .
i pushed myself up and leaned against the tree .
emily gave me a light smile .
good morning !
she said and twirled around .
hello bare ground that has no forest !
you seem to be in a good mood today , i mused and watched her twirl .
she stopped and her face crinkled up in thought .
i think it 's because i did n't wake up to be in a never ending forest .
plus , last night jason got so sick of arguing with me he just gave up .
i think i won .
great , i said half heartedly .
that 's only because i was too tired to keep arguing with you , jason said and he sat down next to seth .
if it was morning , it would have been different .
emily sighed and shook her finger .
excuses .
listen guys , seth said , i have something to tell you .
he looked at me and i nodded .
emily twirled her hair .
hm ?
what is it seth ?
i 've been hiding this from you for a long time , seth began .
only jazell knew what it was because she found out that i was hiding something , and demanded to know what it was .
so i told her , and ever since i did she 's been bugging me to tell you too .
but i did n't want to , i was afraid that i would get you worried about nothing .
so far it has n't turned out to be nothing .
the incident with the faery guard showed that clearly .
i walked over to him and sat at his other side .
i gave him a smile .
he smiled back and continued .
the faery could have easily stabbed me through the heart but he did n't because he wanted me alive to give to kojas .
emily gasped and covered her face .
why , what would he want with you ?
seth closed his eyes .
he 's saying that i 'm going to be his key to success , in taking over igneeria and earth .
he wants to use me , i do n't know how yet .
they 're going to do whatever they can to bring me to him i 'm going to have to be extra careful .
i do n't know seth , jason interrupted him .
seth looked up at his best friend .
seth , jason repeated , you are n't alone .
kojas is n't going to get a chance to use you because he 's going to have to get through me first .
and me , emily added .
do n't count me out .
i stood up and faced seth with emily and jason .
and he 's going to have to get through me too .
seth smiled and stood up .
he sighed in relief .
well , that 's a load off .
i do n't know whether i should be mad at you for not telling us or be happy that we 're all on the same page , emily said thoughtfully .
but you better not keep anything else from us or kojas wo n't be your problem .
she winked at him and set off with jason on her heels .
i think they were going to start arguing about the water war .
great job seth !
i said and hugged him .
his eyes seemed to widen in surprise but he did n't tell me to get off .
i pulled away , blushed , and started to follow emily 's tracks .
seth followed behind me and there seemed to be a new spring to his step .
i could n't even keep the smile off my face .
everything seemed a lot better to me .
at the top of the hill , emily and jason were waiting for us .
a shadow formed behind them and i screamed for them to turn around .
what the heck ?
seth shouted and pointed .
oh snap .
chapter 10 emily and jason dashed back to our sides as the shadow became a body .
it was bigger than the dragon we had rode .
it had the body of a huge cockroach but its tail was a giant stinger .
large , bat wings were holding it up in the air .
what is it ?
i asked .
i turned to emily and said , emily , you know anything about this creature ?
she looked pale .
it 's saying , 'kill half lings , kill and eat . '
well , you better tell it that it 's going to have to starve this time because it 's not going to be eating anything , seth said confidently and held his sword out .
she shook her head .
there is no way that i 'm going to say that .
jazell , can you see its weakness ?
seth called to me .
i squinted at the creature , and saw a dark circle under its belly .
it 's under its belly , but you have to get by the stinger first .
that might cause us a problem .
no problem , seth replied and swung his sword in an ark .
well just cut off the stinger .
seth its not that simple i said but he ignored me .
ug , the nerve of that boy .
jason , try to hit its face , he instructed .
emily , knock it off balance .
can i skip while i do it ?
emily asked .
he gritted his teeth .
fine .
he turned to me .
jazell , youll aim for the belly while we hold it off .
if you cant get an arrow in before i can cut off the stinger , then ill have to do it myself .
fine boss dude , i said with a snort .
seth ducked and charged the creature , his sword held out behind him .
jason flicked some knives into his wrist and flung them at the creature .
some hit their mark , which was signaled by the creature roaring out in pain , others fell into the dirt .
emily danced close to it , spinning fire from her fingertips .
the creature raised a leg and swatted at her but she just twirled away .
the stinger narrowly missed seth , and i saw him stumble back in surprise .
he swung his sword at the stinger .
it sliced through and the creature screeched so loud i was afraid everyone would hear it .
the stinger fell on the ground and dark blood oozed from the cut .
now jazell !
seth yelled to me .
i notched an arrow and took aim at the thrashing belly .
i pulled the string back and released it .
the arrow whizzed through the air and sunk into the creatures belly .
it shook and fell to the ground .
seth ran from underneath it right before it crushed him .
he turned around and studied it .
then there was a horrible sound , like ripping metal .
the belly of the creature seemed to open up and winds picked up .
seth threw down his sword as the wind sucked at him .
he tried to keep himself from being pulled in .
i ran up to him with emily and jason right behind me .
the winds were so powerful i started to slide toward the body , before i was even close enough .
seths knuckles were white in the effort to hold himself down .
get back , he ordered .
get back or well all he didnt get to finish his sentence because his sword came loose and we all were sucked into the black void of the creature .
i hit the ground so hard my breath was knocked out .
i laid there , sucking in painful breaths and staring at the sky .
there was something different about it , even though it was gloomy .
there was more than gloom and sadness in the air this time , it was something cold , like death .
i shivered because the ground was so cold and hard that it chilled me to the bone .
seths head blocked out my vision .
hey , you alright ?
i sat up and seth helped me up .
i rubbed my sore back and looked around , taking in the dead looking trees and shadows .
where are we ?
i dont know , jazell .
the creature must have been a setup to bring us here , he replied .
i think i know who did it .
it doesnt take a rocket scientist to figure that out , seth , i pointed out .
i looked around .
where are the others ?
seth went pale .
i dont know jazell , they arent here .
theyre just gone .
my stomach twisted into a knot .
we had always been a group of four and now it was just the two of us .
the ghost girls words came back to me .
the four of you were chosen because of your unbreakable bond , but even that can be broken .
you are strongest when you are together , but dont let yourselves be separated .
kojas had separated us because he already knew that .
the girl had warned us for a reason .
she had known that kojas was going to try to split us up into groups so that we would be weak .
i watched seth pace back and forth , nervously running his fingers through his hair and drumming the hilt of his sword .
i can also tell you to be careful about kojas he 's tricky and will use your emotions against you .
he 'll find a way to get you to come to him instead of him coming to you .
the girl had told us more than we had thought .
maybe kojas thought we would both imagine that he did something to the other two so that we would come running to him .
i had a feeling that emily and jason were okay and just as confused as us .
that also meant that kojas knew as much , and maybe more than us .
emily pushed herself into sitting position , ignoring the sharp pains in her elbows and knees .
jason was leaning against a tree nearby , tossing a knife from hand to hand .
she saw a deep , red scratch on his left cheek and the way he winced every time he moved his right arm , she could tell she must have injured it .
do you know where the others are ?
she asked him .
he shook his head .
no , theyre just gone .
were separated ?
she said nervously .
yes , he replied .
what do we do ?
why are you asking me ?
she demanded .
youre the one who comes up with plans .
emily paced back and forth , trying to think .
where were seth and jazell ?
were they okay ?
more importantly , where were they ?
i dont know , she said finally .
i just dont know .
oh no , jason said nervously .
when emily doesnt know , the world ends .
do you wish now that you were at home , curled up with a book ?
yes .
seth , i said , calm down and think .
we cant stay here forever , and pace.seth didnt stop and he started mumbling under his breath .
i walked up and pushed him around .
seth , you have to think .
kojas did this on purpose , hes trying to weaken us by splitting us up .
he wants us to go running to him .
i know what hes trying to do , its driving me crazy .
the nerve of this guy .
faery , i corrected him .
hes not a guy , hes some demon faery .
calling him guy makes it sound like hes just a normal human .
does it matter right now ?
he asked , through clenched teeth .
i looked away .
i guess not .
we should move , he said .
i want to find out where we are and where the others are .
were going to find them and i swear by the bible , if kojas hurt them , im going to kill him myself .
seth !
he shrugged .
its too late now jazell , i just swore by the bible .
kojas means business and if he wants this to be a war , ill give him a war .
then he stormed into the trees and disappeared .
wait , seth !
i yelled and ran into the trees .
i scanned the trees .
seth !
seth where the a hand clamped down on my mouth and i spun around , knife in hand .
seth dropped his hand and pushed past me .
stop yelling my name , jazell , or youll tell the whole world that im here .
my arm dropped and i slid the knife back in its sheath .
i followed seth through the trees .
this time there were less of them and the only ones that around us looked half dead .
the bark was peeling off and i could see the tree branches leaning towards the ground .
the air was cold and heavy , like a mound of snow on your shoulders .
the trees parted to show a cliff .
we walked up to the edge and the wind whipped at my face .
a feeling of dj vu came upon me .
i knew where we were because i had been here before .
seth , i was here in my dream , the one with kojas and the dwarf , i said .
his eyes widened and he looked down at the ground below , obviously trying to imagine what it had looked like .
i had seen it and i was seriously scarred for my life .
you sure ?
he asked .
you know that this means that kojas was here , so he cant be too far away .
dont get your hopes up .
i saw him once and i have no intention of being near him anytime soon .
he sat on the edge , the wind tossing around his hair .
it was going to be seriously wind blown later .
i sat down next to him and i was trying to forget the dwarfs mangled body .
i shook and hugged myself .
are you cold ?
he asked , his voice full of concern .
i just shrugged and squeezed my eyes shut .
i saw kojas glowing eyes and sword , the dwarf , his armies , the ghost girl , the dark woods and her haunting voice .
it all crashed down on me , the weight of the whole situation .
we were being hunted , i could die .
oh boy , this is what happen when i think things out .
you are cold , he stated .
dont deny it youre shaking like a leaf .
wait i dont like that analogy , youre shaking like a mole rat .
do mole rats shake ?
i asked .
he rolled his eyes and wrapped an arm around my shoulder .
we sat there in silence and i leaned on his shoulder .
we both stopped shivering as we stared at the sky .
seth , im scared , i whispered .
what happens if something goes wrong ?
nothing will go wrong , he said fiercely .
i wont let it happen .
i closed my eyes .
i keep seeing what happened that night .
itll go away , he said .
there was a long silence .
this is too awkward and i dont like the silence .
its not normal for us .
i laughed .
someone make a joke quick !
okay , he said .
this feels like those weird movies where the boy puts his arm around the girl and then something comes out of nowhere and eats them both .
i laughed so hard i gagged .
ive never seen that kind of movie .
i did and it was lame .
i smiled and twirled a leaf in one of my hands .
maybe everything was going to be okay after all .
hurry up jason , youre so slow !
emily yelled at him .
jason walked the rest of the way up the hill and bent over to catch his breath .
we 've been walking all day and you 're not tired ?
nope , i 've got dancer muscles .
jason sat on the ground .
well , i have artist muscles and those are in my hands .
emily rolled her eyes .
then walk on your hands .
no way !
he said .
fine , then do n't complain .
she climbed into a small tree that was near the cliff she had spotted .
she leaned back and let out a sigh of relief .
her legs were killing her but she was n't going to tell jason that .
he got up and sat at the base of the tree .
you had to take the good tree ?
she motioned around .
there are plenty of trees to pick from jason .
so pick one .
he mumbled something and closed his eyes .
emily shook her head .
he was too stubborn sometimes .
emily stared at the sky and then she knew what he had said .
she looked down to say something but jason was fast asleep .
he had said he was n't going to leave her alone .
jazell , maybe we should try to go down there , seth said and nodded to the ground below .
i shrugged .
why ?
it might lead up somewhere .
plus , if jason and emily see it too , they might go down .
it 'll be easier to find each other .
okay , i said and stood up .
i brushed the dirt off my pants and followed seth , who was walking off to the side .
he went down to the left of the ledge and followed a steep path .
i walked behind him and had to dig my heels in to avoid from slipping down .
the path ended and seth had to jump down to reach the bottom .
he landed gracefully but almost tripped .
i walked up to the edge of the path and jumped off .
i flung my arms out to steady myself .
seth grinned at my clumsiness and waited for me to walk up to him .
i wacked his head with the back of my hand , making his hair stick up .
he smoothed it down and we walked across the flat ground .
the ground had spots of grass sticking out of sand and rock .
luckily , there was no wind down here to toss up the sand and dirt .
i think i passed the spot where the kojas had stood in my dream .
i threw the thoughts out of my head and tried to think of something else .
like , where this flat plain of flatness ended .
where are we going , anyway ?
i asked and stared at the sky .
it was going to get dark soon .
he looked up at me through his hair .
i could see the curved end of his lip , which met he was smiling .
do we ever know , jazell ?
good point .
emily could n't sleep .
she kept closing her eyes but it did n't seem like a time to sleep .
she wanted to do something , just to occupy her busy mind .
she watched a strange creature fly over to her tree and hook itself on a branch near her .
it looked like a butterfly with only one set of wings , which were transparent and seemed to glow .
it had a tail and curled around the branch so it could rest its middle .
emily watched it and its beauty she did n't think that something this pretty could be found in a place so dark and full of death .
hello , it said .
emily propped herself up on her elbow .
hi , what are you ?
an augothas .
it replied and fluttered its wings .
are you a half ling ?
yes , how did you know ?
is it that obvious ?
the augothas seemed to cock its head .
well you ca n't be a faery because you do n't have the ears and you ca n't be a pixie because they 're always giggling around .
how can you understand me ?
emily shrugged .
i do n't know , it 's this new power i have .
my friend has one too .
that sounds like the other one .
what do you mean ?
she asked .
the augothas uncurled its tail and took off in the air .
i must go , friend .
good luck .
it took off into the sky and emily could n't see it anymore .
she sighed and leaned back .
this was getting too complicated .
who had the augothas meant ?
the sky had turned gray and the sun , which was still hiding behind the clouds , seemed to drop .
i was still walking and walking and walking and walking and walking ... you get my point .
i was so sick of walking i could n't explain it in words .
maybe in a song , here i go lalalala !
so sick of walking !
lalalala !
my legs are gon na come off !
lalalala !
i want a golf cart !
that 's how much i was sick of walking i was making a freaking song up in my head .
i never do stuff like that , never .
but i guess my mind was tired of seeing the same thing over and over again .
i wish it would get interesting .
oh , it was going to get really interesting .
the ground rumbled and we both stopped dead .
i looked at the earth and cracks appeared .
then dirt started to cave in .
i screeched as the ground gave way under me .
can my life get any worse ?
emily , jason said , i heard something .
emily 's head jerked up and then she remembered that jason was below her and she looked down .
jason was staring at the plains below the edge .
emily climbed down the tree and ran over to him .
she could see a puff of dirt that was tossed up in the distance .
emily squinted her eyes .
what is it ?
i do n't know , he said .
should we head out there ?
i think we should , she replied .
we have nowhere else to go .
chapter 11 jazell !
seth yelled , but his voice was muffled by the dirt flying everywhere .
i grabbed at something , anything , but there was no hold .
seth , where are you ?
i thought that he said something but , i could n't hear him .
all i could hear was the blood pounding in my ear and my racing heartbeat .
dirt fell into my mouth and i coughed , trying to get rid of it .
my vision was closing , getting dark .
i 'm tired ...
i closed my eyes as i fell into darkness .
seth opened his eyes and curled up , retching .
he took in deep , shaky breaths and laid back , staring up .
he narrowed his eyes and saw a small spot of light .
what the heck ?
he was underground , in a cave .
he groaned and sat up , his back throbbing .
his head was pounding so hard he had to close his eyes to keep from passing out .
he felt worse than he did when the stupid faery smashed his sword into his head .
he looked around the dimly lit cavern and spotted jazell , sprawled out on the floor .
he crawled over to her .
i couched and gagged , turning over .
dirt fell to the ground from my dry mouth .
i looked over to see seth fall back on the ground , breathing heavily .
i looked around the room and up at the sky , but i could n't really see it .
seth , where are we ?
i asked , my voice hoarse .
he sat up .
i think we 're in some underground cave .
when the ground collapsed , it must have carried us here .
that stinks , i said .
are we stuck here ?
not unless you know a way to grow wings with nothing but dirt .
i stood up and tried to rake the dirt out of my hair .
we 're stuck here .
seth sighed in frustration and brushed his blue hair .
he fluffed it up but the dirt was still stuck in globs .
i rolled my eyes at his attempts .
i turned around to see an entrance .
i walked over and bent down .
there seemed to be some kind of sign or symbol .
it was two circles with a sword through the center of both .
seth , look !
i said and pointed to it .
he came over and bent down , tracing the sign with his finger .
i waited and finally said , well , do you know what it is ?
seth dropped his finger .
it means , 'slayer of worlds ' .
does that ring a bell ?
how do you know that ?
i asked .
he shrugged .
i do n't know how , i just do .
maybe that 's my power .
well , i want to go this way , i said and pointed to the entrance .
if something like that is on the entrance , i want to know where this goes .
i agree but are n't we supposed to be trying to find emily and jason ?
i have an idea , i said and pulled my bow off my back .
i removed one of my arrows and put my bow on the ground .
i walked over to seth and pulled his sword out of its sheath .
he grabbed for it but i already had it in my hands .
i put the tip against the arrow and carved the same sign as the one on the wall .
then i tossed seth 's sword back at him , which he caught without a problem , and picked up my bow .
i notched the carved arrow and released it .
it whizzed up and out of sight .
there , now they 'll know how to find us .
seth whistled .
that 's a good idea .
he gripped his sword and walked through the tunnel .
follow me .
i followed his steps as we .
when you tell someone to follow you , it usually means that you know where you 're going .
not this time , he said over his shoulder .
the tunnel ended and opened up to the sky .
for a second i thought we were back on the plain , but we were n't .
the sky was blood red and a crescent moon was rising up .
from the feeling of the air i knew we were n't underground anymore but i did n't know where we were .
skeleton trees were scattered to the sides .
there were long hills ahead , the grass a light gray .
this place looks like its from a book about hell , seth said .
where are we now ?
i asked .
he shook his head .
do we ever know where we are ?
i shook my head and he sighed .
exactly , we never do .
you really got to stop asking that question .
he started to hike the hill .
were trying to find out .
i walked up behind him , my leg muscles cramping .
when we got to the top , i fell on my knees and breathed heavily .
seth looked over his shoulder , his eyes twinkling in amusement .
am i too fast for you , jazell ?
no way , i huffed .
i just need to catch my breath .
i stood up and looked around .
the hill was pretty high and i could see better .
the land was hill after hill , tree after tree .
it didnt seem to end .
hey , im king of the hill , seth joked and reached for the sky .
i walked over and pushed him gently .
he fell backward on his butt and i laughed .
more like goof of the hill .
he stuck his tongue out .
youre just jealous .
of what ?
i asked .
what do you have that would make me jealous .
uh he stumbled .
i dont know , thats what you usually say in this type of situation .
i laughed .
then what happens ?
i dont know .
seth whipped out his leg and tripped me .
i landed with an oof , and got dead grass all over me .
he chuckled as i gave him a deadly glare .
oh !
he said .
youre jealous because im not covered in grass .
not yet , i said , my voice dripping with sarcasm .
i lunged at him and he rolled to the side .
i kicked dirt at his face and he spit it out .
i kicked at his legs but he moved , and i kicked his arm instead .
the whole time we were laughing like two crazy six year olds .
who knew that you could have fun in a place like this ?
life is full of happy surprises .
emily was seriously freaking out .
jason and her had run the whole length of the plain and found a giant hole in the ground on the way .
yes , a giant hole .
it sounded crazy to emily but her eyes didnt lie .
and what made it worse was jason found one of jazells arrows sticking out of the ground .
but there was no jazell .
an arrow without its shooter was never a good sign .
emily twirled the arrow in her fingers while jason paced back and forth .
emily had offered to be the one who paced but jason had waved away her offer and started pacing .
so all emily could do was sit there and twirl the arrow in fear because right now it wasnt looking good for jazell and seth .
what i dont get , jason said , is how the arrow managed to stay in perfect shape when the ground collapsed .
the arrow should be broken and not sticking out of the ground a few feet away .
maybe she shot it after , emily suggested , because that meant that she was alive .
jason rubbed his eyes .
i guess thats a possibility .
jazell and seth were always too stubborn to die anyway .
he stopped pacing .
but why would she shoot it up here ?
maybe she wanted to show us that she was alive , emily said .
a sign , jason muttered and snapped his fingers .
thats it !
jazell likes to leave clues , check the arrow .
emily turned the arrow and saw a sloppy line drawn through two squiggly circles .
she squinted closer and saw that jazell had tried to make the line some sort of sword but epically failed .
emily showed jason and he nodded .
thats what i thought .
now we have to figure out what it means .
emily walked up to the edge of the hole and looked down .
i have a feeling that we have to go down there .
jason sighed .
i guess were jumping down .
why would we do that ?
because , he said and sat on the side , we dont have a rope .
then he jumped .
life is good when you dont have to worry about anything and everything is calm and peaceful .
well thats not my life .
my life isnt peaceful by any standards .
it involves lots of smart remarks and bad decisions involving life or death .
it also involves a bad choice of a place where you roll around pretending like your life could be normal for a second .
yeah seth sat up quickly and looked around .
he must have heard it too .
the ground rumbled in the distance and i didnt know if it was an earthquake or a stampede of elephants .
whats going on ?
i asked .
seth crawled back to the edge and i joined him .
we peered over and i spotted a bunch of monsters stomping their way across the hills .
seriously , do these guys know how to walk ?
great , seth hissed under his breath .
company for us .
whoo i mumbled .
he rolled his eyes and shifted his gaze back to the monsters .
where are they going ?
uh , we follow them , i said .
i think .
yup , we just follow a bunch of monsters that would like to smash us to pulp and serve us for dinner , seth said and started to slide down the side of the hill .
brilliant idea .
i followed him down , feeling the grass and dirt scrape the bottom of my leg .
my pants started to scrunch up causing this slide to be very annoying .
i decided to ignore it because i had my bow in my hands and had more important things to worry about .
we crouched behind a rock and watched the group walk off .
seth started to stand up and signaled me to wait for him .
he jumped over and ran out into the open .
he leaned forward and narrowed his eyes , probably trying to see the disappearing bunch .
he held his hand out , signaling me to wait .
then he beckoned me and i stood up .
then someone tapped me on the shoulder .
i bit back a scream and whipped out my knife .
but i dropped it in surprise as i spotted emily standing over me , rocking back and forth on her heels .
i squealed and hugged her tight .
jason was limping over with a grim expression on his face .
what i dont get a hug too ?
he asked .
i jumped down a deep hole for you .
uh i said , feeling awkward .
seth walked over and patted jason on his back .
tell you what , when we defeat kojas , ill give you a hug .
uh , fine dude , jason said and whispered in seths ear .
seths eyes widened and he smacked jason on the head .
dude , youre crazy , he said as jason rubbed and smoothed his hair back down .
i shook my head and said , anyway , emily how come you two didnt destroy each other ?
hey youre right , she replied and her brow furrowed .
i really dont know .
jazell , we better move or well lose them , seth reminded me and started to walk up the hill .
emily raised an eyebrow .
loose who ?
well explain later !
i said and ran after seth .
right now we have to move !
we dashed up the hill in the direction the monsters were going .
when we reached the top , seth stopped and stared down .
emily and jason looked confused but joined us .
we looked down at the ground and i gasped as i saw all the monsters gather around in a semi circle , waiting .
what are they waiting for ?
emily asked in a hushed voice .
seth squinted down .
i dont want to know .
do you think it could ?
i asked .
lets hope not , seth interrupted me .
oh course being ourselves , we dont have any luck at all .
the sky darkened even more , not that i thought that was possible .
the mist swirled and a cold chill that ran shivers down my spine ascended on us .
and out of the mist stepped a dark figure .
kojas .
again .
this time for real .
not in a dream vision .
my heart stopped and my blood froze .
kojas red eyes gleamed in the darkness and his cloak snapped at the wind .
he looked up and his red eyes stared at me .
me of all people in this horrible world .
he smiled in triumph .
seth stared stone faced at kojas as he slowly walked towards us .
with every step , seths hand inched closer to his sword .
emily cracked her knuckles quietly and held them stiff at her sides .
her face was determined , but i saw her eyes flicker .
jason flicked out his knives and held them so tightly that his knuckles were white .
if he gripped any harder , i was afraid he would snap his fingers off .
and , me ?
i pulled an arrow out faster than you could say oh my god theres a hideous monster coming to whip our butts .
and then i launched it .
the arrow shot at kojas , speeding through the air .
but what did kojas do ?
he whipped out his sword and slashed the arrow in half right before it hit him .
the pieces fell on the ground .
holy tamale .
i stared at the cracked pieces of my arrow and my flare of determination went out with a poof .
great , now what do i do ?
that was a fail , i scolded myself .
a fail !
nice try , seth whispered and i think he really meant it .
or maybe he was teasing me .
its hard to tell in these situations .
seth brandished his sword .
my turn .
really , warrior ?
kojas said and laughed .
his laugh was like a bunch of spiders running down my back .
you think your sword will do any more than the pathetic archer girls arrow ?
hey , i shouted , im not a pathetic archer girl !
oh course , the two ignored me .
i swear the air sizzled with the tension between kojas and seth .
seth stood ridged and i was pretty sure that it was taking all of his will power not to jump at kojas , sword flying .
i believe it will , seth said through gritted teeth .
kojas laughed again but i dont think any of us saw what was so funny .
emily leaned towards me .
i think you were right , when you said that i wouldnt want to meet kojas .
uh huh , i said but didnt really pay attention .
i would like to see you try with that sword of yours , kojas said and smiled wickedly at seth .
i knew he was baiting him .
seth narrowed his eyes .
you cant trick me into fighting you , kojas .
yeah , were not stupid , i said and stepped next to seth with my hands on my hips .
i mean , if youre so smart , than why is your name so stupid .
i giggled .
kojas sounds like toe jazz , whatever that is .
i heard emily laugh and jason say , burn !
kojas eyes flamed but he formed a tight smile .
let me inform you , jazell , that you are outnumbered five to one ?
man , this guy is good .
um , well weare cooler than you , i stumbled .
really jazell ?
emily hissed from behind me .
i turned my head to her .
well , you come up with something to top that and well see how well you do .
nah , im good , she said quickly .
kojas laughed again .
seriously , was this faery guy crazy or something ?
you are mistaken , he said .
i am cooler than you because i hold all the cards .
then he turned to the army and yelled , attack !
chapter 12 the monsters surged up the hill , blocking out kojas delirious laughter .
seth shouted , stay together , dont get separated !
a troll charged at me and i jumped to the side .
i looked up and saw that emily , jason , and seth had been swallowed by the rushing creatures .
so much for that plan .
emily !
i yelled but my voice was drowned out .
i saw a flash of fire off to the side .
emily was fine .
i twisted around so that the troll charged past me .
i turned and plunged my knife into its back before it could respond and it fell to the ground .
i felt pain flare in my right foot and looked down to see a frost beast with its teeth in my leg .
when i tried to pull away , in bit down harder .
ow , i yelped .
ow , ow , ow , get the heck off me !
i slashed downward and the frost beast let go of my leg .
it zipped between my legs and launched itself at my left leg .
i stepped to the side and slammed my foot on the beasts back .
it yipped and went still .
i raced through the crowds , jumping and ducking .
i looked over my shoulder and up the hill , wishing i could escape all the bodies that were pressed together in combat .
then i rammed into one .
what the heck ?
i fell on my butt and blinked as jason picked himself off the ground .
sorry , i said and stood up .
watch where youre going jazell , look out !
jason suddenly yelled .
i dove onto the ground and felt the monster brush past me .
i looked up to see jason rolling on the ground before jumping on the faery jerks back .
he yelled at jason right before i saw the knife disappear somewhere in his neck .
the faerys yells turned to screams and then nothing .
he fell to the ground and jason brushed himself off .
you okay , jazell ?
he asked me and held out a hand .
i took his hand and he pulled me up .
yup , im just peachy .
at least you can use sarcasm in a time like this , he said and started to fight his way through the crowd .
i followed him quickly .
i had no desire to become separated again .
when cant you use sarcasm ?
i asked loudly .
he didnt reply to me because he had spotted emily .
she was slowly backing up with her palms out .
fire danced from her fingertips and twisted towards the troll and frost beast .
the beast breathed and ice sprayed from its mouth .
emily moved her hand over and the ice evaporated into mist .
she was holding up fine but i didnt know how much longer .
i strung my bow and released an arrow .
it pierced the frost beasts pelt and it fell to the ground .
emily turned to me with huge , confused eyes .
she mouthed the words , thank you .
i nodded in response .
jason threw his knife at the troll and it landed in its leg .
the troll collapsed on the ground and emily raised her hands in the air .
the ground rumbled and the troll disappeared in the dirt .
i ran over to her and hugged her .
thank goodness we found you .
i looked at her pale face and frowned .
are you okay ?
she nodded vigorously .
yes , its just hard work to use my magic .
i need a lot of concentration .
we all ducked behind a half dead tree to escape from the swarms of monsters .
we were breathing heavily .
i leaned my head against the trees cold bark , wanting to disappear from it all .
wheres seth ?
emily asked .
i raised my head .
we havent found him yet .
her eyes widened .
what do you mean , you havent found him yet ?
i crashed into jazell , who was doing , like , forty , jason pointed to me .
then we both found you fighting beasts with your fiery fingertips of death .
she raised an eyebrow .
fiery fingertips of death ?
hey , he shrugged , jazells sarcasm is contagious .
anyway , we better find seth before he gets into some serious trouble , i said , and walked off .
i went farther down the hill and the fighting spread out more .
i tripped on a dead root and cursed as i stood back up .
the slope started to even out more and the trees popped up again .
be careful .
i stopped .
the voice had come out of nowhere .
the time is near .
the voice whispered as faintly as the breeze .
what , i thought , was that ?
you must stop it .
i gritted my teeth in annoyance .
im sick and tired of your riddles , whoever you are .
just give me a straight answer or i cant do anything .
it all comes down to this .
what is coming ?
i cried out in frustration .
it didnt reply to me again , so i continued to walk down the hill .
what did i have to stop ?
what was so important ?
why wasnt i allowed a straight answer in this stupid world ?
i heard a faint clang ahead .
i walked faster and with ever step the noise got louder .
when the ground became completely flat , i stopped at the scene in front of me .
seth spun around , bringing his sword up to block kojas swords .
kojas pulled his swords back and slashed through the air .
seth ducked and stabbed at his opponents middle .
kojas brought his sword down and swiped seths .
it twisted out of seths grip and fell to the ground .
i wanted to scream , but i couldnt .
i was frozen in fear .
seth dashed to his sword , hand out stretched .
then kojas raised a hand and something dark shot out of it .
it slammed into seths side and he fell to the ground .
no !
i wanted to scream .
no , seth !
i saw seth squirm as kojas walked towards him .
i heard him chuckle .
seth , kojas said .
seth , oh when will you learn ?
seth groaned and grabbed at his sword , but kojas kicked it away .
then he slashed his sword across seths face .
i saw the thin blue line well up on his cheek .
kojas laughed .
you cant beat me you can never be safe .
seth pushed himself up and dove for his sword , which was off to the side .
kojas flicked his sword down and i saw seth flinch .
he looked at his arm in amazement where a deep cut had sliced through his clothes .
he pressed his fingers on his arm to stop the blood and continued to scoot towards the sword .
kojas stepped to the side and blocked his path .
seth gazed up at him and i saw his eyes blaze in hate .
what do you want ?
he snarled .
seth , i think you know what i want .
never !
the faery chuckled and i saw his greasy hair bounce up and down .
you seriously think that i assumed you would walk away with me ?
oh , i had no intention of it being this simple .
i knew what he meant , and i yanked my bow off .
i pulled my arrow out and notched it , aiming it at kojas back .
jazell , wait !
i didnt turn around as emily and jason skidded to a halt behind me .
i didnt drop my bow either .
wait jazell , she panted .
i tightened my grip .
why ?
hes going to try to take seth .
we have to stop him .
then i released my arrow .
its an understatement to say all hell broke loose .
in my opinion , it was way crazier than that .
kojas sidestepped my arrow and it disappeared somewhere in the trees .
emily raised her hands and roots twisted upward , trying to encase kojas but he kept slashing them away .
jason attempted to distract him by running around throwing knives at him but i think jason was too busy ducking the black stuff that shot out of kojas hands .
i ran right past all of them and towards seth .
i knelt down and smacked him across his good cheek .
ow , what was that for ?
he grunted .
i dont have enough bruises for your liking ?
thats for being a jerk and not telling us you were going to fight kojas on your own , i said angrily .
hey in my defense , he found me first .
i opened my mouth to say something smart , but i hear emily scream .
i turned around to see jason crash into a tree and not move .
seth jumped up and grabbed his sword from the ground .
he ran for kojas .
kojas turned around and looked like a kid on christmas morning .
he raised his sword to block seths blow .
seth pulled back and parried kojas swing .
emily , is he okay ?
i yelled .
she looked up and nodded to me .
i turned back around to see kojas slash seth across the stomach .
thats when i screamed .
seth fell to his knees , holding his midsection .
his sword fell out of his grip and to the ground .
kojas grinned in triumph and kicked seth to the ground .
i screamed again , when he didnt move .
at last , kojas breathed .
monster !
i cried .
youre a monster !
he didnt answer me .
i looked up the hill to see a bunch of faery jerks running down the hill towards us .
emily stood in front of jason and raised her hands .
i notched an arrow and aimed .
dust kicked up everywhere as i aimed blindly .
i heard one of them shout out in pain .
i shot another and another , anger burning through me .
stop him .
i turned around and saw seths body through the dust .
he looked up at me and mouthed , jazell .
seth !
i yelled .
then the dust and darkness swallowed him up until i couldnt see him at all .
epilogue i padded silently through the long , dark halls .
emily and jason walked wordlessly by my side .
no one spoke because there was nothing to say , and so much to say , at the same time .
it had been almost a day since seth disappeared .
a day since kojas took him .
i had told him , when he had first said that kojas wanted to use him that he didnt have to worry .
i should have known that kojas would do anything to get him , and now seth was gone .
after he had been taken and jason had awakened , the faery jerks had scattered .
then a light pixie had showed up , the same one who had saved my life a while ago , and led us all the way to her majestys place .
she was apparently the queen but she was nothing like a stuck up royal leader .
she was more like a warrior who lead igneeria in the good times .
she was really nice but when we had met her , i was in an awful mood .
no one blamed me i had just watched one of my best friends get beat up and taken right before my eyes .
her majesty said to return in the morning when i would hopefully be in a better mood .
so jason , emily and i walked to her throne room .
emily pushed open the door and queen crystalla turned to us .
she wasnt someone who youd expect to be named crystalla .
she was more of the tough type .
jazell , emily and jason !
crystalla beamed .
im so happy you can finally join us !
crystalla was dressed in a hunting jacket with a dark blue top underneath .
she had dark green pants with simple brown boots .
a gleaming sword was slung on her back .
my heart ached because she somewhat resembled seth .
man , i missed his stubbornness .
yup were happy too , emily said with a sigh .
so , um , what did you need ?
i asked .
she nodded .
right , you must meet your destiny .
its a shame the other one couldnt be here right now .
she looked upset but she wiped it away with a small smile .
follow me , please .
we followed without any words .
we went outside and past some light pixies that were milling around the very small garden .
one waved to me and i raised my hand in greeting .
crystalla walked into a small , dark building and i followed .
it opened into a room with a high , glass ceiling .
ahead of us were four doors , each with a symbol i couldnt see from here .
crystalla stopped and faced us .
find the door with your symbol on it .
uh , jason raised his hand sheepishly , how do we know which symbol is ours ?
she smiled .
you will know .
she motioned for us to move up to the doors .
i walked slowly and leaned forward to see the symbol .
amazingly , i walked right up to the one with an arrow on it .
i looked to the left and saw a door with a sword on it .
i sighed and pushed open my door .
the small room also had glass ceilings but they were dimmer .
the room was dark and cold , with dust in the air .
i was wondering when you would get here , a familiar voice said .
i jumped and looked into one of the corners .
the girl from my dreams walked out , shimmering .
she smiled and i then noticed the bow hanging on her back with a quiver of arrows .
you know how you asked for my name before ?
i can tell you now , she said .
actually , i can tell you a lot .
great , im all ears .
she laughed .
my name is june and like you , i was once a full human .
youre a half ling ?
i asked in amazement .
i was a half ling. , june corrected me .
im dead now .
but i can still speak to you because you have to complete the job i did before with my friends .
wow , back up a second , i said quickly .
youre dead ?
she tapped her foot impatiently .
do you know how long ago i defeated kojas ?
it must have been over one hundred years ago .
wow , that was a long time ago , i said .
you defeated kojas ?
june sighed in frustration .
did you pay any attention to anything ?
mackenzie , david , mark and i beat kojas the first time he appeared .
it wasnt easy let me tell you that right now .
how did you die ?
mark died of a wound after we beat kojas .
he was too weak to live .
david and i died in an ambush of what was left of kojas army .
mackenzie died from a fatal fall , i dont remember how .
oh , i said and rubbed my neck .
i dont want to be rude , but do you need to tell me anything else ?
i have to try to come up with a few explanations for back home .
a lot of explanations .
june walked towards me until she was standing right in front .
i could almost see through her body , which was really starting to freak me out .
you have to get back seth , she whispered .
i know david was supposed to see him right now and i know hes disappointed .
you cant beat kojas without the four of you .
you cant unleash the nights circle without all of you .
and without the nights circle , you can not destroy kojas forever .
i started to shake with the intensity of it all .
if the nights circle destroys kojas forever , why is he still here ?
june backed up a bit .
we think that our nights circle wasnt strong enough because mark was seriously injured .
but no problem , you guys have to destroy him now .
she must have seen me shaking because she added , no pressure .
no pressure ?
i practically squeaked .
you just put the fate of both worlds on my shoulders .
no , she said , i put the fate of both worlds on all four of your shoulders .
alright , is that all ?
i asked , eager to leave .
june nodded and i turned to open the door .
i was just about to turn the handle when she said , jazell , dont be scared to bring out your emotions .
they make you stronger .
i looked over my shoulder to see june standing stiffly .
thanks , i whispered .
thanks june .
good luck , jazell .
i opened the door and saw that emily and jason were also coming out of their rooms .
emily looked a little shaken but she gave me a thumbs up .
good luck , junes voice whispered one more time .
yeah , i was going to need it .
big time .
seth , im coming , i thought , and i meant it .
hold on .
then i walked out to face my destiny .
dont miss book two in the fall of igneeria series !
fall of igneeria the nights circle prism story of ci prism story of ci copyright 2010 rachel moschell published by rachel moschell at smashwords third edition the prism table of contents 0 gilded 1 purple 2 gaudy gold 3 electric blue 4 mocha 5 aquamarine 6 emerald 7 white plaster 8 scarlet 9 silver 10 midnight blue 11 coffee 12 hazel 13 olive green 14 beet red 15 pale 16 canary yellow 17 brick red 18 dark 19 transparent 20 red white and blue 21 cinnamon 22 sickly pink 23 bittersweet 24 sea green 25 crimson 26 pale blue 27 sapphire 28 fiery 29 turquoise 30 blond 31 plaid 32 white 33 grape 34 lilac preview of reverb story of ci 2 0 gilded the silvery branches of the molle tree whispered in the shade , sprinkling soft leaves in the dirt of the boy 's path .
the sky shone sapphire behind the lacy branches , and the only other life along this back road were two tawny cows grazing in the silver white grass of the ditch .
behind them ran the same crumbling adobe wall the boy saw every day as he walked this way out of town for the afternoon session at the christian school his parents sent him to .
today was tuesday , and that meant bible class .
in one coffee colored hand , the boy clutched his fat black bible with gilded letters , a present from his parents on his last birthday , fourteen .
he shuffled slowly along the road , feeling the bible burn into his fingertips , trying not to free the furious tears scalding the back of his eyes .
he should leave the bible here in the ditch by the cows .
because now the boy knew none of it really mattered .
oh , he was quite sure there was justice and virtue in the world , and he intended to find it .
but it was not here .
not in this book , and not in anything that his parents had ever taught him about it .
he had finally told them what had happened and they did n't care .
they had n't moved a finger to help .
the boy 's hazel eyes narrowed and his lower lip quivered like a baby 's .
what in the world was he supposed to do now ?
and then he saw the blackened fingers rising from the silky grass in the ditch .
the boy 's mouth opened in slow motion and his whole world congealed to frozen then he lurched forward towards the horrible sight , heard his heavy bible thump to the dirt .
the fingers were a child 's , even darker than his own , blackened by dirt .
the boy fell to his knees on the sharp stones of the road and flung the grass aside , shaking so badly he could hardly breathe .
another boy was sprawled face up in the ditch , face bloodied and swollen , unmistakably dead .
the fingers had n't belonged to a small child , but to someone the boy 's own age , dressed in torn navy sweat pants and lying here dead in the ditch on the road to the christian school .
oceans of bile rose up in the boy 's throat and he collapsed into the white grass , emptying his stomach into the weeds until he felt himself heave , insides scraped dry .
it was him , the boy 's best friend .
the one no one cared about .
the boy forced himself to stand up , tears dripping off his chin and onto the embroidered gold cross of his white school uniform .
his friend was dead , and he had n't been able to stop this .
wiping his chin on one sleeve , the boy began to march back towards town , stepping over the muddy , crumpled bible .
he would take his stuff from his parents ' house and leave .
if he never saw them again , that would be just fine .
the bible would be staying here .
1 purple bolivia 2017 when pastor martir mentioned that the quechua bible conference was a ways out in the bolivian countryside , he certainly had n't been kidding .
by her calculations , eight hours had gone by since they left the vibrant garden city of cochabamba , climbing higher and higher into the clouds .
wara cadogan slit her eyes open and squinted around the darkened interior of the jeep .
the windowpanes had frosted now that the sun hid behind the jagged peaks of the andes .
an elbow jabbed her side and wara heard her friend nazaret martir yawn , a squeaky , muffled sound that caused her father , pastor martir , to glance at both girls in the rearview mirror .
we 'll be there any second , '' he told them , much too chipper after being cooped up in the jeep all day .
i know it 's freezing now , but soon we 'll get you warmed up .
it 's a long hike . ''
wara stuffed her numb hands into the sleeves of her alpaca sweater and bit her lip .
why had she let herself be talked into this ?
she loved the martirs , and their large family had basically adopted wara during the six years she 'd been a missionary here in bolivia .
as a linguistics major , wara usually jumped at any chance to travel out into the countryside and practice speaking quechua .
so when pastor martir said he needed her to translate from spanish to quechua at this conference in potosi , wara had enthusiastically answered , why not ? ''
bad idea .
a very bad idea .
a bible conference , wara ?
what were you thinking ?
pastor martir steered the jeep into a cavernous rut , and wara felt her jaw snap at the impact .
the turquoise knit cap she wore slid over one eye .
she pushed the hat back into position as a low moan came from the back seat .
if she were n't so stressed , wara would have grinned .
her best guy friend noah was waking up from his perch back with the luggage .
where are we ? ''
she heard him mutter under his breath .
this place looks like the twilight zone . ''
one long arm brushed wara 's ear as he reached up to clear frost from her window .
not a single light outside , and the murky sky tossed off thick shadows .
the skeletal remains of a tree rose up out of the gravel path , beckoning the jeep forward .
noah was right it looked downright freaky out there .
pushing back her nervousness about the whole bible conference thing , wara turned towards the back seat .
despite the rough ride , noah was looking content , emerald green eyes glinting in the moonlight .
his sandy , shoulder length hair was littered with straw and the poor guy really had to hunch over to fit his frame in the tight space on top of the luggage .
at first glance , noah hearst might give off the aura of surfer dude , but he was n't really full of muscle .
and he was n't fat .
noah was just a big guy .
plus , there were n't really a lot of surfers in ohio , where noah was from .
did you have a nice nap back there with the potatoes ? ''
she asked .
noah tried to stretch , then grimaced and gave up .
yeah .
i guess . ''
he glanced around the car , took in pastor martir and two skinny quechua speaking bible school students in the front , wara and nazaret in the middle seat .
i guess i 'll be the one carrying this stuff up to the conference for our lunch .
seriously , that 's about all i 'll be good for .
nazaret 's dad must be thrilled he got you to translate , though .
word on the street is you speak quechua like a native . ''
true .
despite the cold , wara felt her armpits prick .
she used to be good at this .
the first year wara lived in bolivia , she worked teaching bible lessons to ladies in quechua and helped at a ton of children 's bible clubs around the city .
but then everything happened .
she left the country for four months to try to get things together , and when she came back she was teaching literacy classes to quechua women .
and volunteering at the home for children with aids that the martir family ran .
she did n't teach about the bible anymore , because that would just make her a hypocrite .
and noah , good friend that he was , never asked .
i can never get over how lucky you are , '' noah was going on .
sounding so bolivian , and looking it too .
can you imagine anyone ever mixing me up with a bolivian ? ''
uh , no . ''
wara raised an eyebrow and him and stifled a smile .
i would be seriously worried about anybody who thought you were bolivian . ''
in addition to being tall and blond with skin that crisped red in the strong cochabamba sun , noah had studied spanish in spain .
whenever the guy spoke spanish , it came out with a lisp that , to bolivians , sounded really silly .
noah had good reason to be jealous of wara .
besides teaching her quechua from the time she was a baby , wara 's quechua grandmother from peru had passed along some of her color .
wara 's skin was a light tan that bronzed in the sun .
behind trendy maroon glasses , her eyes were honey brown .
and her brown hair , now sporting an uneven cut with burgundy highlights , let her fit right in with her bolivian friends .
i think i 'm getting a cold , '' nazaret announced smally from wara 's side .
wara turned back to her and took in her friend 's pale , heart shaped face framed in dyed blond ringlets .
she was sheathed in a puffy pink coat , mounds of pink scarves , and a snow white knit hat with pale pink sparkles .
the jeep hit another hard rut just as nazaret sneezed , a cute , shrill little sound that was all but muffled in tiny pink alpaca mittens .
i hov i can still help you wif de kids , '' she sniffled , bleary hazel eyes turned on noah , who patted her on the white knit cap with a few encouraging words .
they all jerked to attention as the jeep braked to a halt in a sudden spray of gravel .
when the group piled out of the car , they discovered the air outside the car was even colder than inside .
even though it would look ridiculous , wara almost wished she was wearing snow pants , just like when she was little growing up in montana .
the frayed jeans and hippie tunic she had on under the alpaca sweater were not doing anything to keep her warm .
frozen fingers brushed lazily over her cheeks from the hulking mountains all around them .
off in the distance , something howled .
nazaret covered her nose with one mitten to muffle another sharp sneeze and it echoed off the mountains in the night .
'scuse me . ''
noah cheerfully pushed past wara , carting a gigantic burlap sack of potatoes .
coming through , '' nazaret 's father followed him , hauling a second bag of something edible .
wara huddled next to nazaret for a minute , watching as the guys hefted the food and sleeping bags onto a haggle of scrawny burros .
a few quechua guys in black jackets and slacks had materialized from an adobe hut and were helping to arrange everything on the donkeys by the light of a shimmering bonfire .
pastor martir , who came every year to preach at this rural bible conference in potosi , said that it was best to climb the mountain at night , when it was cooler .
right now , wara really hoped he knew what he was talking about .
they still had a seven hour hike ahead of them , up the forested granite .
she stifled a heavy yawn and fixed her gaze on the diamond stars .
in the morning , she woke up to scruffy feathers and a beak .
a chicken scratched through the pebbles right outside the crumbling adobe wall of the community school house where she and the others had crashed for a few hours after the hike .
the local christians had gone to all the trouble of fixing up wooden pallets with woolen blankets here at the school , so their guests could have a private place to stay .
wara knew they had gone to a lot of trouble and hated to admit that it honestly had n't been worth going to sleep .
a well organized army of fleas had taken up residence in the wool blankets long before she had , and she , noah , and nazaret had scratched and grumbled for a few hours before pastor martir coated their beds with raid .
maybe that was why now , with daylight streaming through the holes in the schoolhouse wall , it was so darn hard to move .
could you overdose on raid ?
wara kicked off the sleeping bag , grabbed her glasses from the dirt floor , and pulled herself to sitting .
pastor martir was already gone , probably outside at some morning prayer vigil with the quechua christians .
nazaret curled on her plank bed , still snoring .
noah 's long legs stuck out the end of his unzipped sleeping bag , leaving his filthy socked feet sprawled in the dirt near giant maroon nike tennis shoes .
when she moved to stand up , the powdery remains of dried up fleas shifted on the navy fleece of the sleeping bag .
eeww .
wara had to grin at the sight of those dried bugs .
she really loved these kind of trips .
she dusted her bare feet off on the edge of her jeans and stuffed her sockless feet into doc marten boots , hoping to find someplace outside to use the bathroom before everyone else got up .
a waist high cluster of boulders overlooking the valley below turned out to be the best option for privacy .
she brushed her teeth with water from a dented bottle of pura vida and spit off into the deserted valley .
trailing wisps of clouds slithered around boulders below .
the only structures visible were the schoolhouse where she had slept and two sturdy adobe houses a little way down the rounded path .
a quechua lady with a huge smile was waiting in the school with a breakfast of sweet purple corn drink and boiled eggs .
she wore a knee length circle skirt called a pollera , this one a soft sage green .
despite the morning chill , her mahogany legs were bare and she wore scuffed black plastic ballet flats .
she did have on a warm cardigan over the lacy white blouse quechua ladies always wore .
the lady bringing breakfast introduced herself as doa petronia and patted wara on the forearm in greeting , telling her how happy she was that god had brought wara to this conference .
wara smiled back wanly , even though it was a lot of fun to be speaking quechua up in the mountains again .
she still did n't feel good about the idea of her being part of this bible conference , acting like she was all sweet and good here with pastor martir , noah and the bible school students .
she felt like a fake .
still queasy , she mumbled something appropriate and tried to get down the purple api and an egg .
they assigned her to help noah , who was in charge of the kids while their parents attended bible classes .
wara had already seen him in action many times during the five years they 'd been friends , teaching bible stories to kids at the martirs ' aids center or hanging out with a little homeless kid in downtown cochabamba .
within minutes , noah had the group of kids sitting on a grassy knoll and captivated by bible songs with actions .
then he made wara come stand next to him to translate a story into quechua , one about jesus calming the stormy sea .
she grew up in church and could rattle off this story by heart , in english , spanish , or quechua .
but there was no way she could keep a group of kids glued to her every word the way noah did .
she ignored the sick feeling in her stomach and stood next to noah , feeling little and insignificant at five foot five next to his six foot three .
all she had to do was tell noah 's story to the kids in quechua .
her own failings could n't ruin the moment for the kids .
noah deserved to be listened to .
when the story was over , she could see in the kids ' eyes that they had imagined every peal of thunder , felt the shuddering of the splintered wooden boat on the open sea .
noah asked the kids to come up and stand at his side , one by one , to tell him what they were afraid of .
that we wo n't have enough to eat if hail destroys the crops , '' mumbled one almond eyed little boy in a jade chullu cap .
i 'm afraid of the terrible goat that lives down the hill . ''
several muffled giggles scattered across the group .
of the thunder when it storms . ''
one short boy in a tattered soccer jersey trudged to the front when it was his turn and recited gravely , i 'm scared that my other brothers will become one of the missing , like my brother antonio . ''
wara scrunched up her face .
she had never heard anyone refer to someone who died as the missing '' before in quechua , but maybe it was a regional idiom .
she was going to have to ask around later to figure out if that was really how that phrase should be used .
i 'm such a nerd .
she blinked away thoughts of quechua grammar and brought her attention back to noah , who was beaming at the children , then her , waiting for her to translate .
you know , when i was little , '' he told the kids , there was this dog that lived a few houses away from mine , and he had really , really big teeth . ''
suddenly , strangely , noah slung an arm over wara 's shoulders , leaving the two of them facing the children together .
i want you to know kids , if jesus is with you , you do n't have to be scared of anything .
he 's stronger than anything in this world . ''
just as mesmerized by noah 's words as the kids , wara felt herself leaning into his side .
then the lesson was over .
thanks for translating , '' noah told her , then dropped his arm and smiled .
wara felt her heart do a very weird pitter patter and she stared after him as he jogged off to chase some of the kids in a game of tag .
that attraction you 're feeling ?
she chided herself warily .
that 's just because noah is your friend .
you would never think of noah as anything more than a friend .
right ?
wara blinked , then squinted at noah , who was grabbing a giggling little kid around the shoulders and swinging him in the air .
she would be crazy to let herself think of noah as anything other than a friend .
he was much too goofy for anything else .
wara was always studying and was sometimes really grouchy .
noah was always so happy go lucky and watched way too many cartoons .
not exactly prince charming .
plus , he did n't really know her .
wara shook herself back to reality and headed back down towards the house , thinking she should probably help the ladies fix lunch .
the cloud covered valley writhed with mist , licking the emerald grass at her feet .
it was hauntingly beautiful .
in the rocky dirt outside the main house she found a circle of quechua women squatting in their wide velvet pollera skirts around a plastic tub of potatoes .
the ladies skillfully attacked the miniscule purple and yellow veined potatoes with paring knives , leaving the spuds without peel in seconds .
wara hunkered down next to the smiling lady from breakfast this morning , doa petronia .
wara had tried so hard to learn to peel potatoes like a respectable quechua woman should , but she usually ended up desecrating the potato , scraping half of it off into the scrap pile .
she fiddled around a little with the knife and a bumpy yellow potato , then decided to put her grammar question out there .
i was wondering about something one of the kids said .
if you say that your family member is the missing , does that mean that person died ? ''
doa petronia 's long blade faltered mid peel and she reached up with one work roughed hand to flip a braid behind her back .
everyone fell silent .
you must have heard my son edgar talking , '' she finally nodded .
he 's only six but he is so worried about his older brother . ''
or maybe it was my juan marco talking about his older brother , '' interjected a more portly woman in a royal purple pollera .
a thick layer of fat rolled out of the waist of her skirt , blanketed with the silky white undershirt the ladies wore under their short lace blouses .
she jerked her chin towards doa petronia .
she and i both have older sons , teenagers .
three months ago , the boys both went away , never to be heard from again . ''
went away ? ''
wara frowned .
we call them 'the missing ' . ''
doa petronia looked wara directly in the eye .
the boys went into llallagua to sell some potatoes , but on completely different days .
we never heard from them again .
we do not know where they could have gone .
that is why we call them and the other boys 'the missing ' . ''
what other boys ? ''
the two women eyed each other soberly .
from all over the mountains , many different communities .
all missing . ''
wara did n't know what to say .
how could these women 's sons , and boys from other communities too , just be gone ?
the pain in the women 's black eyes was evident , and wara felt horrible .
how many of the people here at the bible conference had a son or brother who had just disappeared ?
i am really glad nazaret is still off teaching somewhere .
i hope she has n't already heard about this .
the martirs were a busy household of six kids , but once upon a time there had been seven .
wara knew nazaret 's older brother had run away when he was a teenager , and she knew the serious , skinny oldest martir only from his faded photograph in a frame on nazaret 's dresser .
talking about missing kids was always enough to start nazaret weeping .
wara really hoped her friend would n't hear about this .
it would only make her think of her brother , the missing boy who was probably never going to come home .
she could identify a little with that kid in the picture , because sometimes , when she thought too much about things , wara just wanted to run away from here and start over .
except the past always follows you .
noah was running up the hill panting , with a hundred screaming quechua kids close on his heels .
even if she wanted to be with noah , she would never deserve him .
there were some things that even time could n't erase .
2 gaudy gold peshawar , pakistan 2017 alejo perched above the ancient labyrinth that was old city peshawar , counting down the seconds until he would take a man 's life .
the tri colored apartment complex where he waited soared to the cloudless sky , cream , cinnamon , and pistachio .
a giant block of neapolitan ice cream , sizzling under the peshawar heat .
in a dusty courtyard with solid walls below , the three men who marched between grave pakistani police were mere specks to alejo .
gabriel was at the scope , reporting the details of the scene below benjamin lay prone as alejo did , both of them one with the black rifles propped on sandbags .
so , they just entered the courtyard , '' gabriel said softly .
sweat poured down his pale face from the tightly wrapped black turban .
they were alone on the cement rooftop high over peshawar , and abandoned the pashto language for their native spanish .
the paki police are pretty nervous .
ok !
here come the americans .
they 've all got bullet proof vests . ''
gabriel 's bony fingers tightened on the scope and his voice rose with excitement .
not surprising .
the u.s. army would n't want any crazy talibs to take out their precious little prisoners before they get to justice '' now , would they ?
but how many years would the young soldiers get for murdering afghan children across the border and posting bloody trophy pictures on the internet ?
three years in a comfy cell with three meals a day ?
that was more than most afghan children could dream of .
security was tight around that little compound with the courtyard , as the whole surrounding area would like to see the american soldiers in pakistani custody mutilated and dead .
but no one would expect a shot to come from this distance .
a cacophony of horns blasted from the matchbox cars snaking along below .
the sound would cover the shot perfectly .
alejo shifted one leg , ever so slightly , letting blood flow back into one of his thighs that had been riding a rock for the past half hour .
targets are moving towards the mark , '' gabriel said calmly .
he rolled into place in the line of three men on their stomachs and positioned his gun on the sandbag .
the three of them gazed through the gun scopes now at the american prisoners , blond and thin inside their bullet proof vests .
alejo evened his breathing and willed his weak arm still .
he drew a slow lungful of air , then held it , finger exact and deathly still on the trigger .
he heard each beat of his heart echo in his ear , steady and slow .
he waited until one heartbeat had just drummed , then murmured in the space between , now . ''
below in the old city , the timing was perfect .
an ornately painted bus lumbering around the corner of the compound honked and belched black smoke , just as alejo 's bullet entered the medulla oblongata at the base of the middle soldier 's skull and he slumped to the dirt in a crimson mist .
the other two collapsed on top of him , the part of their brains that controls involuntary movements effectively destroyed .
it took a full five seconds for all hell to break loose in the courtyard as mustachioed policemen and high up american officials all turned up dust diving for cover .
alejo could tell there was no need to take a second shot .
he felt cold , and lowered the rifle from his eyes , staring at the dim outline of the mountains encircling the city .
still lying low , he pulled a small gray cell phone from his pocket and punched a button .
ishmael khan , recruiter from the prism and alejo 's handler , would be pacing the floor in his mansion until he heard the soldiers were dead .
alejo set his jaw , then motioned to benjamin and gabriel .
they slunk into the tri color apartment building and into a room filled with grimy shalwar kameezs , ammunition , and cigarette butts .
afghan made cigarettes .
this was the kind of hole taliban fighters always frequented , and whoever one day discovered this place alejo had set up would not be surprised to see a slew of rifles on the kitchen table next to the moldering rice and half eaten naan bread .
everyone in peshawar packed lead .
slick with sweat and fine concrete dust , the three men dumped their soiled shalwar kameezs with the rest of the filthy clothes on the bathroom floor and pulled on jeans and t shirts , the clothes of upper class pakistani students .
with bronze skin , wavy black hair , and perfect pashto , alejo never had problems passing as a pakistani on his many trips to the country .
the other two guys on his team were also from bolivia , a little lighter skinned than alejo but they still passed as pakistani or afghani .
death to the infidels , '' gabriel grinned , stuffing wads of tattered rupee bills into a bag around his thin chest .
benjamin and alejo rolled their eyes .
goodness , i 'm just kidding . ''
gabriel flashed merry eyes at them and winked .
let 's get out of here . ''
the throbbing wail of a siren cut through the heat outside the apartment building , racing towards the murdered americans .
the white orb of midday sun still blazed through the murky haze of pollution over the city .
and less than twenty blocks away , three lives had just been extinguished .
they were getting away .
the three of them would walk through this entire maze of a city , get to the khan 's house , and report a successful mission .
alejo tried to tell himself he should be happy .
at least a little .
that night , the feast at ishmael khan 's house was bounteous .
alejo and his team sat on burgundy and ivory carpets , faced with silver platters of seared roti bread and lamb curry .
milky tea simmered in bone white porcelain , rich with sugar crystals and cardamom .
the rest of his team was having the time of their life in the marble hall of the khan 's mansion , but alejo needed to get out of there .
he made his excuses to the entire clan of khan relatives and navigated peshawar 's labyrinth streets back to the apartment that was always waiting for him here in pakistan .
alejo slammed and locked the heavy wooden door and pulled a couple of guns from under his clothes .
he tossed them onto the red silk bedspread , next to the heavy religious book with ornate golden swirls .
for a second the image shocked him , and he blanched , turning to scan the familiar studio style apartment .
he was caged in by ornate , gold painted furniture in the seventeenth century style , including a giant gilded wardrobe that could have doubled as a coffin for king tut .
feeling sick and angry , alejo collected the two weapons and the gilded arabic book and stuffed them in his black suitcase in the corner .
the suitcase was basically empty , ready to head back to bolivia after the trip to pakistan 's tribal area khan had insisted on the day after tomorrow .
peshawar 's bazaar was full of beautiful things , but alejo 's suitcase was empty because , honestly , there was no one to bring anything home to .
in the morning his team would meet here early .
it was time to plan the next job after pakistan , something that called from alejo 's native bolivia and refused to be laid to rest .
he really hoped that killing salazar after so many years would give him some kind of peace .
it probably would n't .
alejo tossed himself onto the silk bedspread fully dressed and forced his eyes closed in the darkness , fully expecting a reunion with nightmares .
and his dreams did n't disappoint him .
the first stabs of light through the golden curtains were a welcome relief .
alejo could always sleep through anything , a habit you learned fast when you spent your time doing the things he did .
but last night had been awful .
he dumped a bucket of cold water over his head in the shower , then exercised for a couple hours til his team arrived .
by the time the knock came on the apartment door , alejo felt like he 'd been awake forever .
asalaam alaikum , '' the guys greeted him in the traditional muslim way one by one , pushing past him into the apartment in pale cotton shalwar kameezs .
they were all muslims , having converted at different times in their lives high school , university , graduate school .
benjamin , a doctor in bolivia , greeted alejo now with a droll smile and watchful eyes behind wire glasses .
he wore a little brown goatee , some kind of homage to the muslim tradition of big thick beards .
alejo never even tried to grow a beard , because the scattered stubble that appeared on his chin when he did n't shave for a week was really , really pathetic .
gabriel ambled into the apartment , grinned , and gave alejo one of those manly , back clapping hugs just inside the door , the kind only latin guys can share .
gabriel was the skinny , fair skinned guy who could make something from anything , a regular macgyver .
only twenty three years old , he came from an arabic background family in bolivia .
lzaro strode in next , wearing a deep blue shalwar kameez and a wool irish cap .
he was the newest guy on alejo 's team and had been sent over from puerto rico .
lzaro was one of those guys with a permanent tan from hours of camping and rock climbing and starting fires with nothing but sticks .
last came stalin , wheezing like a badger in the hazy peshawar pollution .
stalin was pasty , with round glasses and straggly lion colored hair parted down the middle .
the guy was a phd in philosophy and comparative religions , so he came in handy , instructing new recruits in religion .
he also was n't a bad shot .
and yes , stalin 's parents , student revolutionaries , had actually named their infant son stalin lenin gomez .
this was his team .
the organization was called the prism , because they wanted to bring god 's light to the world .
like a prism scattered light into different colors , everyone in the organization had different talents , brought the light in different ways .
by the time alejo closed the door , his team was already making themselves comfortable .
the ghastly hue that hung over the golden room after the nightmares was no match for the aroma of the expensive colombian coffee gabriel was dumping into the coffeemaker .
benjamin produced fresh roti bread and goat cheese from a paper sack , and stalin was already stretching his legs out on the bed .
those socks looked like they had seen a good week of adventure in peshawar without a wash .
this was life in pakistan .
alejo felt a grin coming on , and he plopped down at the table , pushing aside an ugly vase of melon colored , gold coated roses .
the coffee smells strong today , '' gabriel nodded proudly .
just how we like it . ''
benjamin was quietly spreading goat cheese on a piece of bread , leaning his chair up against the wall next to alejo .
you seem to be in an especially good mood today , gabo .
have n't seen ambrin again , have you ? ''
gabriel 's green eyes took on saucer form and steaming coffee sloshed over the edge of his cup , wetting the top of his sandal on the way down .
stalin frowned and stopped stuffing grapes into his mouth from yet another sack of food the guys had carried in .
oh come on you guys !
leave poor gabriel alone !
you know he does n't like to be teased about ambrin . ''
gabriel had by now managed to get a grip on his coffee , but his usually pale neck was now stained scarlet .
yeah you guys , we should n't even be talking about her .
you know i ca n't see her ? it would n't be right .
we 're not even engaged .
she knows i did n't mean to see her without a veil that one time . ''
but that 's when you fell in love , is n't it ? ''
benjamin commented without looking up from the cheese .
the whole team knew it was .
walking in the garden at the khan 's mansion one day , gabriel had run into ishmael 's niece , ambrin ? without a veil .
all the guys knew the story by now sapphire eyes , and gabriel was instantly in love .
he was trying to get up the nerve to ask for her hand in marriage .
alejo let them go on about it for a while , because he really was dreading the thing he was about to bring up .
stalin , mouth still full of food , beat him to it .
so , '' he asked , polishing his little glasses on the tail of his long kameez shirt and spewing crumbs , who 's up to be the next speaker at our retreat ? ''
by speaker , he meant the next target .
lzaro , who always seemed to have an opinion about everything , set his feet apart on the floor and leaned forward to eye them all intensely .
i would nominate the southern baptist mission house back in cochabamba .
the world could n't be a much worse place without them , right ? ''
a grin stretched his tanned face and benjamin seemed to agree with him .
alejo fought a sour expression .
was the guy never going to let it go ?
he 'd only known lzaro for six months , and had already overdosed on the guy 's hatred for americans .
and missionaries .
word on the street was that lzaro had dated a cute missionary girl who later dumped him , thus the dislike of anything missionary or american .
alejo thought that lzaro just wanted an excuse to do whatever he wanted .
i 've already lined up the next speaker , '' alejo shook his head .
he tried to sit up straight but felt the three cups of coffee he 'd just downed settling in his gut like cool acid .
sweat trickled down his ribs and he saw blackened fingers through tall white grass , fought the urge to gag .
well whoever it is , i think it would be a lot more beneficial to get rid of all those missionaries preaching pie in the sky while letting the world we live in go to hell . ''
lzaro again .
stalin was grinning , amused .
this was getting ridiculous .
it 's franco salazar , '' alejo said , cutting them off .
one of gabriel 's blond eyebrows rose .
the politician ?
what has that fat old dude done ?
everybody seems to like him back in bolivia .
he 's fashionable , drives a swell red sports car , and , they say , even has gold teeth . ''
his chipper grin died away at the look on alejo 's face .
tell us about him , '' benjamin pushed away the plate of bread and cheese .
guys , alejo knows what he 's talking about . ''
benjamin always respected him they had been friends for years , since they were both recruited into the prism together while getting masters degrees in london .
alejo knew his expression had morphed into something pained , but he could n't control it .
he felt the sun baking his neck again , like it had that day , while the breeze whistled through the tall white grass .
the smell of death threatened to engulf him here , fifteen years later .
i do know what i 'm talking about , but i would give anything not to know .
i do n't know if i can say this .
alejo did his best to focus , felt his face darken .
i 'll tell you .
and when i 'm done , you 'll know why salazar has to die . ''
his team leaned forward and , stuffing the nausea that came whenever he thought about ruben , alejo told them .
but he did n't tell them about ruben .
even without ruben , it was enough .
when alejo was finished , benjamin 's face burned .
stalin chewed on his lip , and gabriel looked ready to vomit .
he 's our next speaker , '' lzaro managed to croak .
it 's a good choice .
3 electric blue the city sat in the bowl of the andes , climbing up the foothills to the lavender peaks beyond .
cochabamba was sunny and bustling , infused with a rainbow of flowers and the smell of smog .
this city was her home for six years , and wara cadogan loved it .
back in downtown cochabamba a week after the trip to the mountains , wara entered caf amara wearing a green hippy dress over jeans and beat up leather sandals .
the air was infused with coffee and cinnamon and vanilla icing and noah was already up front , tuning his honey colored taylor guitar .
every friday he and a group of friends did live music at the downtown coffee shop his church owned .
noah threw wara a wave and she plopped down into a chair , ready to drink lots of coffee and rest after long day at the aids center with nazaret and her mom , noly .
a swish of fabric drew her attention to the tiny quechua lady at her side , holding a tray of empanadas .
wara 's mouth started to water at the sight of browned pastries , perfectly crimped edges embracing a center of melted cheese .
doa filomena , you know i ca n't resist empanadas , '' she told the older lady in quechua .
thank you .
how are you doing these days ? ''
doa filomena had a bent back and wrinkled skin that crinkled like parchment , especially around the eyes .
wara had never seen her without two thin gray braids twisted into a bun at the back of her head , and filomena always wore a thick navy blue cardigan over her lacy white blouse .
she was always thrilled to talk with a foreigner in her native quechua .
just fine , i 'm doing fine . ''
filomena patted wara on the shoulder , grasped her forearm delicately , and then patted again in the traditional quechua greeting .
i tell you , the lord is healing me of my arthritis .
i just pray , i 'm always praying , and i know that the lord is helping me feel better every day . ''
o kay .
wonderful .
wara fought not to arch an eyebrow .
the lady 's faith was ? nice .
but she knew about the gigantic megachurch doa filomena was a part of , and all the speaking in tongues and mad tambourine playing that went on in that place honestly freaked wara out .
but who was she to judge , right ?
i 'm glad you 're feeling better .
and thanks for the empanada . ''
the older lady nodded with smiling , crinkly eyes and headed back towards the kitchen .
just as tiago pushed his way through the caf door , sending little chimes dinging .
tiago was a guy of maybe nineteen with a boyish smile and black baggy jeans with chains .
he was skinny as a rail and wara wondered when the kid ever ate .
the reason she knew tiago was because he was usually found smoking with a boyfriend outside the door of the neighboring coffee shop , caf paris , known for catering to homosexuals .
he grinned at her when he saw her , showing off the metal stud in his tongue .
another guy wara had never seen before was trailing tiago into caf amara , and the two of them stopped in front of wara 's table .
hey , there , '' tiago drew out the greeting with a sly smile .
noah meandered over to say hi to the guys too , still carrying his taylor guitar .
this is my new friend rudolf , from germany , '' tiago grinned .
he 's over here studying spanish , and i told him you guys were nice .
how 's it going noah ? ''
tiago shook noah 's hand and wara took in the new guy .
rudolf had a very clean shaven german jaw and wore a preppy gray sweater and dark jeans .
he also shook noah and wara 's hands with a grin , going on about what a great city cochabamba was .
and one of the coolest coffee shops here is where you 're standing right now , my friend , '' tiago jumped in .
this girl right here , wara ?
she is always making me up free food from the kitchen .
nachos , little pizzas ? her quesadillas rock . ''
he punched wara in the shoulder , then turned his attention to noah .
so , we 're hanging out next door , but we thought we 'd come over and see if you wanted to have a drink with us .
you 're not singing til later , right ? ''
noah blinked .
uh , sure .
we could have a drink .
it 's only 9 now , right ? ''
alarm bells were going on in wara 's heard .
noah 's eyes were friendly and clueless , and he probably would n't be able to tell if someone was flirting with him to save his life .
i 'll come with you , '' she offered , trying not to grit her teeth .
sure , wara , that 'd be great . ''
noah smiled at her so warmly her knees actually went weak .
but then she caught herself and angrily kicked herself into reality .
noah thought she was a nice girl , just another missionary with a pure heart for serving the lord .
what if he ever found out ?
she could never be with someone like him .
yeah , i 'll definitely come with you guys , '' she repeated morosely as she followed them out the door .
i could use a good drink . ''
for a moment the relative silence of the darkened street shocked wara as the door to caf amara thudded closed behind them .
she crossed the pavement with the guys , towards the blue toned beehive that was caf paris next door .
just inside the door , the throbbing techno music reverberated inside her chest and the dim lighting confused her .
noah leaned back and spoke into her ear .
we 'll just stay a little while , be friendly , go back .
thanks for coming .
i was feeling a little awkward . ''
no problem , '' wara hissed back , rolling her eyes .
some of the guys scooted over to make room for them on the electric blue barstools , and wara noticed that rudolf somehow switched seats with another guy next to him , ending up next to noah .
oh great .
wara had never actually been inside this caf before , and she took in the antique plaster ceiling with low hanging bulbs covered in blue glass squares , sending an eerie , ghostly light around the long room .
the bar , sporting neon signs for mostly european beers , was by far the busiest area of the caf .
oh , '' she twisted around , realizing that the bartender was asking her what she wanted , i want a taquia . ''
she plopped down on the empty barstool next to noah , who turned away from rudolf as he heard her order for bolivian beer .
i did n't know you drank . ''
hardly ever do , '' wara answered coolly , flushing as she heard the solid clink of her glass mug of taquia hit the bar .
she knew this was going to be a bad idea , just knew it .
but she had n't had a beer in five years , and if there ever was a time for it , it might be now .
are you gon na have anything ? ''
i 'll get it , '' rudolf jumped in , offering to pay for noah 's drink .
you like taquia ? ''
wara hoped her grimace was discreet , and she tried to hide it by downing a good half of her beer , quickly followed by the other half .
noah , rudolf , and the other guys were talking away , covering everything from rudolf 's spanish studies here in cochabamba to what kind of music noah liked .
i have got to get noah out of here , wara thought as she ordered a cuba libre .
just got to watch for my chance ?
she already felt the effects of the alcohol as the rum with coke went down , but all in all , she felt pretty good .
if noah was n't in danger of being picked up , this would actually be kind of fun .
another fifteen minutes went by , which wara filled with another cuba libre and a whole lot of moody thoughts .
and then she heard noah 's voice .
hey , no .
i 'm not ? i just came here to hang out . ''
wara realized noah was stammering .
she whirled around to see rudolf leaning way , way too close .
noah 's neck had turned absolutely crimson , and his fingers twitched on the edge of the bar stool .
all right , that 's it !
that 's my friend there !
she shot up from her seat and slid onto noah 's lap , wrapping her fingers around the back of his neck .
wara to the rescue !
that 's right , '' she snapped , facing the other guys and then meeting noah 's eyes .
i think you 're a little confused about my noah here . ''
she pulled him closer , feeling the hot flush of her friend 's face .
he 's with me . ''
noah 's face was just inches from hers .
she kissed him , and maybe it was the shock , but noah did n't pull away .
then she broke away and looked rudolph right in the eye .
no boyfriend stealing tonight .
ok ? ''
silence dropped around the bar like chloroform , and then tiago cleared his throat , cheeks splotched maroon .
oh , man .
this is really awkward .
we 're , uh , really sorry .
did n't know you , uh ? were with her . ''
tiago let his eyes shoot to wara , who slid away from noah 's body onto one of his knees and was eyeing the guys with one eyebrow raised .
yeah . ''
rudolf had stood and was apologizing .
i just thought , i mean , you knew we were gay and you were so nice to us and no one ever is so ? ''
yeah , man , '' tiago rushed on .
i did n't know why you were always talking to us and stuff .
everyone else that is n't ... you know ? always treats us like trash . ''
tiago swore and took a deep breath , smiling nervously .
anyway , i 'm sure you wo n't want to hang out with us anymore . ''
noah unexpectedly burst into laugher and ran his fingers through his hair .
you know what guys ? ''
he said .
it can happen to anyone .
we all make ? assumptions sometimes .
and i 'll see you around .
just so you know not to try to , you know , hook me up .
someday , if it 's all over ? ''
noah jerked his chin over wara 's way , i 'll let you know so you can introduce me to any eligible sisters you may have .
c'mon , i think it 's time for us to be going for today , '' noah announced to wara , a little too loudly .
he threw tiago and company one last red faced smile and headed for the door .
noah remembered to hold the door open for her , and then they began a brisk walk towards the closest major street .
it was obvious that neither of them felt like going back into caf amara .
the cool night air hit wara full in the face and the fire rose from her belly to scald her cheeks as she realized what she had done .
did i actually just kiss noah ?
she had , and in front of witnesses .
oh god , i ca n't believe this !
noah was quiet for nearly a block , and wara nearly suffocated with shame .
i am the worst missionary in the world !
what if the mission heard about this ?
just one more thing to add to her list of awful indiscretions .
then she heard a soft chuckle .
she jerked her head around to look at him , still not quite meeting his eye .
the cobblestones shimmered a little in front of her , and wara was starting to feel a little queasy .
well , wara , that was a little unconventional , '' noah nodded , but you really saved me there .
i do n't know what else to say , so i 'll just say , 'thank you . ' ''
that was really dumb , '' wara mumbled .
i should never drink .
i never learn . ''
noah was silent a minute more , and then he put a hand on wara 's shoulder .
can we sit down here for a sec ? ''
he asked evenly .
sure , fine , '' she answered too hurriedly .
she plopped down on a bench in the plaza they had been passing through , in the shadow of a darkened colonial cathedral that was hidden away in the heart of downtown .
she crossed her arms tightly across her chest and waited to hear whatever noah had to say .
this was n't going to be pretty .
the quiet continued as noah sat down a comfortable distance away on the bench , and stared off towards the stone pillars at the plaza 's center .
finally he spoke .
so , that was my first kiss . ''
wara jolted .
she could n't help glancing over at him to see if he was serious .
the way his lashes were lowered , that twist of his lips ? wara suddenly realized she knew noah too well .
he was serious .
memories flooded her heart , unwelcome , and she swatted them away in anger .
it was n't fair !
ok , yes it was .
it was no one 's fault but her own .
but sitting here watching noah , she could tell that he still cared for her as a friend , even though she 'd totally humiliated herself .
and she felt just destroyed .
even if she really loved him , noah would never , ever , be able to be with someone like her , not with her past and his ? his first kiss ?
look , this was a huge mistake , '' wara groaned out loud .
i just felt bad and wanted to help you ? and i did n't think . ''
oh yeah , and i 'm drunk , she thought angrily .
i think i should go home and you should go ? back to the coffee shop .
and just please , do n't tell anybody . ''
as if he would .
wara felt the slow burn spread across the bridge of her nose .
what a disaster !
i wo n't tell anyone , '' noah promised her .
and really , while tonight has been a little ? weird , i think it worked really well to save me from rudolf .
i do n't know what i would have done without you . ''
wara sighed and blew her bangs out of her eye as she stood up , tottering unsteadily .
hey , wait a sec . ''
noah frowned at her .
i 'm not letting you go home by yourself !
you , my dear , are totally wasted . ''
he stood up and held out his arms to steady her , just as nausea surged and the night began to spin around in circles .
i 'll take you home , send the guys a text that they can sing without me .
and do n't worry , '' he said seriously , kindly .
i wo n't tell anyone .
4 mocha after deciding how franco salazar would die , alejo 's team took the rest of the day off .
alejo spent most of the time wandering the crooked lanes of the peshawar bazaar , staring at gold jewelry to die for and reams of cloth embroidered with a river of color .
if he were gabriel and in love with a girl with amazing sapphire eyes , would he buy her that one gold necklace with wreaths of fairy tale leaves and bottomless blue stones ?
alejo blinked at the shop window , realizing he had no idea what he would do .
during high school back in bolivia , the girls were more interested in his whiter , richer friends .
since then he 'd been too busy trying to save the world .
stalin found him sweltering under the sun in front of the jewelry shop , clapped him on the shoulder and steered him towards a coffee shop , one of the few modern one in this city .
do n't tell me , i can already see it in your eyes , '' stalin said when they 'd taken a seat on the sleek red benches .
you 've been reading that book again .
and that means questions , big life and death questions .
go ahead .
ask them all .
i am an expert on the document in question , after all . ''
alejo glanced behind them , checking that they were still alone here in the corner .
a young couple sat at the opposite extreme of the coffee shop , he wearing jeans and she a short white kameez top , wide bottom black pants , and a leopard print veil .
they both giggled at each other and sipped something fruity from glasses with paper maiche umbrellas .
the drinks stalin had ordered for them arrived , something with a ridiculous amount of whipped cream and caramel on top .
does this even have coffee ? ''
alejo frowned at the stuff suspiciously .
you do n't like caramel mochas ? ''
stalin grinned .
whatever .
could n't be worse than that luke warm fermented mare 's milk he 'd choked down on assignment in uzbekistan a few years ago .
i do n't think i do have more questions , '' alejo narrowed his eyes at stalin .
and that 's the scary part .
we both know you love to be right , and i 'm giving this one to you .
your arguments convinced me the texts are authentic .
he really said it .
and if i believe that , i ca n't be muslim anymore . ''
alejo felt his brow lower saying it out loud .
stalin swore under his breath across the table .
you seriously believe it ? ''
a bead of sweat popped out of his forehead and he slurped caramel and cream .
this time , i 'm not sure if i should have allowed my extreme intellect to be so convincing . ''
i do , '' alejo crossed his legs and leaned back .
i ca n't help it , i just do .
i believe jesus is the son of god . ''
and that means you ca n't be a muslim anymore , '' stalin conceded glumly .
it 's just not possible .
allah has no son .
if gabriel finds out , he 's going to have a cow . ''
yeah , gabriel was really religious , more than anyone else on alejo 's team .
but the one alejo really dreaded telling was ishmael khan .
the khan loved alejo like a son , and in the pashto culture that kind of love should never be broken .
he was going to take it hard that alejo had to leave islam ? and the prism , besides .
but it 's just not right for me to stay where i am , '' alejo told stalin , if i 'm not a muslim .
i 'll have to tell them . ''
alejo felt relieved it was all decided .
but stalin 's eyes had gone all buggy behind his tiny round glasses .
he chewed on one chapped lip and stirred the mess of coffee and cream left in his cup with the straw .
alejo , i do n't think you can just tell them , '' he said worriedly .
stalin licked a film of whipped cream off his upper lip and sighed .
do n't you remember what happened to marco ? ''
marco , until a year ago , was the prism leader for colombia and venezuela .
the poor guy was murdered in a horrible break in , along with his sister and some young nieces the whole thing had been really hard for alejo and his team .
stalin was watching the memory cross alejo 's face and he nodded grimly .
it happened right after he retired .
did n't it ?
i mean , alejo , you are the best of us , always busy exercising , studying other languages .
but the lazier of us have time to sit around and listen to rumors .
marco leaves the prism to take up agriculture .
or pottery .
or something , i do n't know .
then weeks later , he 's murdered , along with his entire family .
the scary thing is , the 964 did n't seem the least bit surprised . ''
the 964 was the group of incredibly wealthy people who financed the prism .
and why would n't the 964 be surprised ?
because they were behind the whole thing , that 's why .
frost crept into alejo 's veins as it all came together .
the picture shoved under the door of his house in bolivia , a bunch of little kids arriving home from school in uniforms and overstuffed backpacks .
a house number clearly visible over the door .
stalin had also gotten a really weird picture of his parents wearing matching lime green t shirts at a rally for world peace .
alejo had been so obsessed with salazar he 'd paid no attention to the prism funders ' reaction to marco 's death .
he 'd felt the surprise at seeing that picture show up but never figured out the hint .
they 're telling us they know where our families are , '' he stated the obvious .
alejo 's tone turned bitter .
if we leave , people we care about die . ''
four o'clock came early the next morning , when the khan came to pick him up for the trip to the countryside tribal area .
a sleek black hummer glided to a stop in front of the apartment , purring in the early morning chill .
a man in a shalwar kameez that was cotton candy pink held the hummer 's rear door for alejo mateen , an employee of the khan that a guy would be wise not to mess with , despite the pink clothes .
mateen nodded wordlessly at alejo and deferentially closed the hummer door behind him .
the leather seats were freezing .
alejo crossed his arms across his chest and greeted two of the khan 's burly body guards , wearing the round woolen caps that were traditional pashto garb .
each held a well cared for automatic weapon very comfortably between their knees .
asalaam aleikum , '' they grinned back at him over thick , unkempt beards .
ishmael , '' alejo nodded at his boss , who , eerily , was impeccably dressed even at this ungodly hour of the morning .
ishmael khan was a philanthropist , giving away a lot of his wealth to build hospitals and schools here in pakistan as well as in bolivia .
the broken hand of two year old jamila was what ishmael khan fought for .
this was what alejo 's handler saw every time he heard about another child killed by the americans in afghanistan the tiny , coffee colored hand of his niece , protruding from the rubble of her home in the mountains .
she 'd been crushed by a stray american missile back in 2008 , massacred in the same day as her five siblings .
the americans had apologized .
the khan had n't accepted .
now ishmael khan was alejo 's handler in the prism , this muslim organization dedicated to fighting against injustice for allah .
alejo was the prism leader for all of south america , excluding colombia and venezuela , where marco 's replacement now worked .
the chill from his conversation with stalin yesterday still sat in alejo 's bones .
the khan was a strict muslim , but would he really react so strongly to alejo 's moving on as stalin had implied ?
maybe only the 964 really cared , because they were the ones who invested all the money in training alejo .
or maybe stalin and alejo were just painting themselves scary pictures from nothing , like campfire ghost stories under the moon .
gabriel cleared his throat from the third row of seats behind alejo .
the rest of alejo 's team had stayed behind in peshawar .
i thought we might have to drag your butt out of bed , '' he chuckled .
for the first time ever .
you were looking pretty down yesterday . ''
alejo was irritated .
they did n't know why he personally hated salazar so much .
to them he was just another scumbag who was about to be offed .
and , except for stalin , they absolutely did n't know a thing about the decision alejo was trying to make .
the roads outside of peshawar were cut into dry , dusty mountain faces , and incredibly sheer drop offs framed their narrow edges .
eventually the hummer left the peaks and jolted across a stony field where the rutted tracks were barely visible in the weak light of dawn .
everywhere , mud brick houses sprung up out of the rocky dust most were shattered from missiles , empty shells of the family life that must once have filled them .
small children sometimes lined the road , staring with huge , kohl lined eyes as the impressive hummer roared past , clouding their ragged bodies in billows of thick dust .
sometime around noon , the armored hummer arrived at a run down village , consisting of a cluster of houses around a stone well .
mangy , skeletal donkeys wandered about , tethered to fraying ropes .
scrawny chickens had free range of the dusty central courtyard .
a baby cried franticly from inside one of the single room homes .
a piece of burlap hung over the small window stirred , a dark form peered out , and the baby was immediately hushed .
somewhere in the near distance , the dull echo of a missile launcher pounded against the surrounding mountains .
alejo started , and realized they were near the current battle zone .
with a cool hiss , the metallic doors of the hummer unlocked and opened .
mateen took a long drink from a two liter bottle of luke warm coca cola .
the pashtun guards leapt out of the car , weapons gripped tightly in their rough hands .
settle down , settle down , '' the khan barked in pashto , appearing amused .
there 's nothing to be afraid of right here , in this village .
it 's still ours .
our commander is in constant contact with me , by sat phone . ''
ishmael patted the pocket of his gray wool jacket from a posh london shop .
you all stay here and guard the car , '' ishmael instructed his guards and driver .
keeping a sharp eye out towards us , of course , as a precaution . ''
the khan cleared his throat , spit a wad of hashish on the ground and turned towards alejo , all smiles .
and as for you , your hour has come .
did i not tell you i had a surprise for you ?
forgot to mention it , eh ?
well , i have a little something i want to show you , and i think you will be very surprised .
pleasantly . ''
alejo hid his displeasure behind a passive mask .
yeah , he was surprised .
what could be here , so near the battle zone , that the khan wanted him to see ?
there was nothing here but run down huts .
and people who needed help .
come on , alejo , '' the khan was saying , heading towards a larger , low slung mud building that was on the close side of the courtyard .
alejo 's leather sandals sucked at the mud as he followed ishmael .
a thin plume of smoke snaked from the chimney of the building into the slate gray of the sky .
alejo halted impatiently outside the splintered wooden door as the khan called into the building in pashto , a curt answer came back to him , and the khan motioned happily for alejo to open the door .
features impassive , alejo pushed his way cautiously into the darkened building and found , more or less , what he had expected a room tightly packed with mud caked , exhausted mujahedeen , taking an early morning snooze by the fire before heading out to fight the enemy combatants .
most wore grimy shalwar kameezs and the traditional pashtun hats , with a ring around the bottom , bulging like a wool muffin on the top .
the men looked thin and under fed and much too young to be here .
many had body parts wrapped up in dirt encrusted , ratty bandages mottled with dried blood .
around one hundred pairs of brown , battle weary eyes stared back at alejo as his vision adjusted to the dim lighting .
he felt the khan push past him , forcing him further inside the room .
well , come see your surprise ! ''
alejo was confused , but did n't let it show , only cocking an eyebrow at ishmael .
he was n't interested in radical fighters and all their petty battles over slight differences in religion or generational blood feuds .
what was he doing here ?
asalaam alaikum ! ''
ishmael greeted the men enthusiastically , and they , obviously knowing who he was , made an effort to sit up straighter with respect and returned the pashto greeting .
this is the man i told you about , the man i told your commander i would bring to you . ''
the khan motioned widely towards alejo , as pleased as a kindergartner presenting his newest coloring page to his favorite teacher .
please greet our visitor . ''
alejo was perplexed to see grins spreading across the chapped faces of many of the men in the room .
an unexplained feeling of dread crept across his chest as he watched them .
and then the men opened their mouths and spoke .
5 aquamarine pakistan if gabriel shara were any happier , he might just die .
it had happened .
his dream had finally come true !
he .
was .
going to marry .
ambrin ! ! !
gabriel had never thought it would all happen so soon .
but while alejo was chatting with the mujahedeen warriors in that town with the mangy donkey , ishmael khan had pulled gabriel aside and said the best words of the century gabriel my son , i 've heard you have noticed my niece . ''
it was all going to be arranged , next year when ambrin finished nursing school .
and though marrying ambrin was about the most awesome news gabriel could imagine , the khan had n't been finished .
there was a client , a super important client , hiring for a super important mission .
and the khan wanted gabriel to take the job !
you 're the one , gabriel shara , '' ishmael had smiled warmly outside under the blazing pakistani sun .
think about it and let me know . ''
but gabriel did n't need to think about it .
he 'd pretend to for a few days , just to negotiate the price a little .
but why should he even do that ?
this mission was a dream come true , a gigantic victory in the cause of justice .
for goodness sakes , he should just do it for free !
gabriel 's brain was doing cartwheels by the time they stopped for a bite to eat in a one horse town along the road back to peshawar .
absolutely everyone along the village 's single road stopped to gawk as mateen pulled the black hummer over next to a ditch of raw sewage , then ducked after the khan into the village 's only eating establishment .
the bodyguards were talking loudly about some tv show , but alejo was lost in a world of his own , ever since they had left the tribal area .
he got like that sometimes .
gabriel had found if you just left him alone , he would come out of the funk before you knew it .
he tried to catch alejo 's eye with a smile as they entered the restaurant .
grimy aquamarine walls dominated the small eating place with their shocking color , and cheap plastic mats spread across the floor .
several groups of men were already eating their lunch , one leg folded up to support their right arm , the other bent cross legged on the woven mat .
with their right hand , the pashtun men scooped up cooked spinach with torn pieces of oven roasted naan bread .
along one wall lay a scattered pile of black plastic sandals in varying states of muddiness .
several of the men 's blackened , bare feet twitched only a few inches away from the food .
bon apetit .
before digging in , gabriel slipped his cell phone out of one pocket to check the time .
yep .
time for prayers .
around twenty other men in the room began to unroll tattered prayer mats from a special corner of the restaurant , working as one man to spread them out in rows in the middle of the uneven concrete floor , facing mecca .
the town 's mosque must have been very near by , judging by the volume of the haunting call to prayer that suddenly cut through the air over a loudspeaker .
the customers who were already here for lunch would simply pray together here .
a small spigot of water just outside the door in a concrete courtyard provided a place for the men to perform wudu , ritual washing for prayers .
gabriel waited his turn at the trickle of water and began to focus his mind on allah as he washed all the parts required by the prophet .
alejo took gabriel 's place at the faucet and began washing , quiet and morose .
gabriel 's bare , wet feet made a sucking sound as he padded back inside across the now muddy concrete , his large , moist footprints mingling with the others to create a mosaic of darkened patches on the restaurant floor .
frigid rivulets of water formed crystal drops like sweat down gabriel 's face , from his wet , spiky hair to his chin .
kneeling down next to alejo , gabriel prostrated himself on his mat and began to pray to the one who , alone , could reward him with eternal life .
he had to wait another week , but gabriel finally got some time off .
the rest of his team had flown back to bolivia the day after that legendary trip to the tribal area , the one where gabriel 's dreams of ambrin began to come true .
since then , gabriel had been back , training a new group of recruits in the tribal area .
he knew how to make stuff molotov cocktails , pretty good bombs , electronic bugs for picking up conversations .
and he was a really good sniper .
he 'd had to learn this stuff when hezbollah trained him in iran , along with alejo , benjamin , stalin , and a bunch of other guys .
he 'd gotten a scholarship in bolivia to go to university in iran , and been recruited into the prism there .
the training had been excellent .
and now gabriel was just passing it all on .
hard work , but today i get a reminder that in the end it all pays off .
literally .
sitting in the middle of one of the khan 's gilded apartments , gabriel flushed , glancing at the fat pile of cash gripped tightly in his hand .
his salary for the next few months .
gabriel , it 's not about the money !
he scolded himself .
it was all about doing what allah wanted .
a knock thudded against the apartment door , and gabriel opened to find ishmael 's employee mateen .
the huge pashtun guard was clad in a cotton candy pink shalwar kameez , but the muscles bulging under mateen 's shirt convinced gabriel that the color somehow did n't make the man look any less respectable .
mr. khan sent me to tell you i will pick you up at eight for a little good bye dinner , '' mateen announced .
a smile twitched above mateen 's bushy black beard and he bowed deferentially , then glided back towards the silver bmw idling outside the door .
you mean at ten , gabriel raised an eyebrow at the departing guard .
people accused bolivians of always being tardy to everything , but really , they had no idea .
pakistanis had them beat .
seeing the beard reminded gabriel of his own pathetic attempt to grow a beard in order to be a good muslim .
the few inches of reddish , peachy fuzz dusting his chin at least showed that he had made the effort to be pious .
i will never be able to wear a pink shalwar kameez like mateen , gabriel thought .
the door to the apartment pounded shut , and he sighed as he was left alone .
a shiny , distorted image of himself glimmered back at him from a mirror in the golden wardrobe on the opposite wall , and gabriel scowled at his measly beard pack .
i 've got to pack .
them maybe i can settle down and watch a sermon from one of the mullahs on tv .
his trusty hiker backpack was propped up next to the bed , and gabriel opened the huge gold wardrobe and pulled out a stack of folded shalwar kameezs , sweaters and jeans .
now , on to his babies .
first , he carefully lifted his favorite quran , inside its black leather quran case , from its position of respect on the highest table in the room and gently placed it inside the backpack .
then came the hard shelled black case from under the bed .
gabriel fondly clicked the case open , revealing the smooth , honey wood of his violin .
this guy had been with him since his parents had given it to him for his sixteenth birthday , and the violin always came with gabriel to anywhere he went that was important .
he carefully placed the small case inside his backpack .
there .
now that the violin is here , wherever we go i 'll be home .
that left the money .
he understood the reasons , but sometimes really wished his boss did n't have to pay him in cash .
debit cards existed for a reason , did n't they ?
gabriel decided to deposit all this cash in the bank , one of the many banks close to the apartment where he had an account .
he pulled a fraying gray sweater over his long shalwar kameez and headed to the bank .
thirty minutes later , having disposed of the cash , gabriel strolled lazily down one of peshawar 's main thoroughfares under a thick haze of ochre smog and pollution .
bordering the sidewalk , heavy buses painted like kaleidoscopes rumbled by next to wooden donkey carts .
a chorus of a thousand horns blared .
two female shapes , heavily shrouded in black veils that fell to the ground , glided in front of gabriel and began to weave their way across the street .
though modestly covered , the girls ' huge dark eyes were exposed and gabriel could tell they must be young , maybe about his age .
then he realized what he was thinking , and his face began a slow burn .
he was ashamed for even noticing them .
oh allah , help me !
here i 've been offered this great mission , and i 'm so unworthy .
you 've got to make me pure and clean .
please !
still praying , he ducked past a street vendor and a sizzling vat of curry into a winding alleyway , already shadowy in the approaching night .
a crunching sensation of angst in his belly came at the same moment as gabriel 's eyes told him he had erred and let his mind wander away from his surroundings .
he barely registered the shadowy shapes of three men who had suddenly surged from behind into his peripheral vision , then came the flash of adrenaline .
the force of their bodies propelled gabriel face first against the coarse concrete wall .
feeling true panic , gabriel swore in spanish .
two of the men gripped his arms tightly behind his back , while the third tore off gabriel 's cap , threw it on the ground , and grabbed his hair so that he could not turn his face toward either side .
what are you doing ? ''
gabriel gasped in pashto .
maybe they had mistaken him for someone else .
with his light skin , he did look a lot like an afghani .
shut up !
if you look at us , you 'll die ! ''
yelled one of the men in a voice that sounded like a traffic accident .
they yanked gabriel 's head back by the hair , exposing his neck and scraping his nose and chin painfully across the pock marked wall .
and then he felt the prick of a very wicked knife pressed against his throat .
i i 'm not looking ! ''
gabriel stammered , hating himself for not being able to control the tremor .
if i were alejo i would fight these guys ?
something hot and tangy oozed off gabriel 's bloodied lip onto his tongue .
the taste of his own blood made him want to gag .
give us all the money you got from the bank . ''
the demand came from one of the men , shadowy in the darkness of the back alley way .
or we 'll cut your throat , dirty afghan . ''
gabriel swallowed hard and took a steadying breath .
of course .
i have the money right here in my pocket .
the left one .
all my money is there , in my wallet . ''
a hand thrust violently into the left pocket of gabriel 's long kameez , causing him to totter and the knife at his neck to bite into his flesh .
gabriel gasped and told the men , but i did n't get any money at the bank .
i went there to deposit . ''
you filthy liar ! ''
one of them yelled , twisting gabriel 's arm so hard behind his back that his eyes watered from the pain .
we saw you go into the bank .
if you 're hiding the money , we 'll slaughter you like a pig . ''
they had followed him from the bank !
how had he not noticed ?
you 've been a fool , gabriel .
a fool .
how could you get so lost in your thoughts ?
but ? look in my wallet .
you 'll see . ''
gabriel swallowed hard , felt his adam 's apple rub raw across the concrete wall .
there 's the deposit receipt there .
you can see that i left a deposit there in the bank .
all the money i have now is there in my wallet . ''
sweat ran down gabriel 's face , along with the blood .
he knew that there were only around two hundred rupees in his wallet , a paltry sum , enough to buy some potato chips and a coke .
thank god he had nothing in his wallet to identify him as a westerner , as usual .
there was only his afghan identity card , thanks to the khans .
a snarl and several pashto curses told gabriel that , indeed , the thieves were not pleased with the pittance in his wallet or the rumpled slip that told them twenty thousand euros had been deposited before their victim left the bank and they began to follow him .
the man holding the blade at gabriel 's throat swore violently in his ear .
hold him ! ''
rough hands dug into his upper arms .
someone else pulled on his hair , forcing gabriel 's face towards the sky .
the knife slashed his throat like the sting of a thousand wasps and his eyes rolled back into his head .
everything hazed over midnight , and the world was black before gabriel shara even crumpled at the thieves ' feet next to the graffiti covered wall .
it was terribly strange to be aware that the world was passing by around you , but yet to feel yourself immobile as a stone , limbs heavy as petrified wood .
drifting in and out of awareness , gabriel finally reached a point of realizing that he could move his lips and try to speak , and what he tried to say was , help . ''
he was in a dirty room filled with ivs , a few cots , and a chess board on a little table , pieces paused mid game .
the ivs mean doctors , a hospital .
what 's with the chess game ?
i 'm not dead .
gabriel felt his heart beat slow and cold .
this could n't possibly be some kind of freaky afterlife filled with rusting metal cots and eternal games of chess ?
am i dead ?
gabriel attempted to roll over to one side , morbid curiosity winning out over sluggishness .
something stabbed through his neck and chest with the movement , and he yelled , suddenly remembering the alley and the thieves and the knife slitting his throat .
and then he saw alejo , materializing in this strange room , followed by a short little doctor in a dirty lab coat .
take it easy , gabo , '' alejo said hoarsely .
do n't move .
you 're safe now . ''
gabriel forced himself to relax back into the pillow , weak with relief at the sight of his friend .
was alejo looking about to cry ?
over him ?
they had to sew you up pretty quickly , '' alejo said , then cleared his throat .
someone found you .
in the alley .
they did n't cut your windpipe .
do you remember what happened ? ''
if he held really still , the pain of talking was manageable .
yes .
they wanted ? money . ''
the doctor had moved to the side of the bed and was checking stitches on gabriel 's neck .
stitches he really did n't even want to imagine .
you must realize , my friend , how lucky you are , '' the short doctor clucked at gabriel .
it is truly a miracle you are still here .
and you have such a good friend , this man who flew here all the way from the americas when he heard what happened . ''
alejo was crying .
he was trying to pretend it was just a piece of dust he had to scrub from one eye , but the ruse was n't working very well .
gabriel felt his face spread into a grin .
a very sad looking , lopsided grin , but a happy one nonetheless .
allah has chosen you , my friend , '' the doctor patted gabriel on the shoulder .
you must never forget it .
your life belongs to him now . ''
that was supposed to be comforting , was n't it ?
but gabriel felt the smile drain from his lips .
what if he messed up ?
allah had saved him by a miracle .
and gabriel knew how it worked .
now he had to pay allah back .
6 emerald coroico , bolivia wara shifted positions against the worn gray upholstery of the minibus , managing to win an extra half inch or so for her left leg .
she hooked one dusty converse tennis shoe through the straps of her purple backpack , a habit she had developed to be able to drift off to sleep while traveling without the possibility of someone sneaking off with her bag .
nazaret was fast asleep next to her , blond curls plastered to wara 's shoulder .
on wara 's other side , through the window , soaring peaks of emerald contrasted with sheer drop offs , mere inches from the edge of the dirt caked road .
nazaret and wara were on their way to coroico , sleepy tropical tourist town in the mountains , for a four day weekend vacation .
this was the first time pastor martir had let his daughter go away for so long , even though nazaret was the same age as wara , twenty seven .
latino fathers tended to be extra protective of their daughters , more so than american dads .
the bennesons from wara 's mission had let her take some time off from helping at the aids center , and her literacy classes for quechua women were only twice a week anyway .
as the distance between wara and cochabamba grew , she allowed herself to think of that disastrous night she 'd been trying to forget for the past month the electric blue glow of caf paris , several drinks too many , kissing noah next to the bar .
even now , wara felt her cheeks flame at the memory of that really ill advised kiss .
in the plaza outside the caf that night , while still feeling the effects of the alcohol , wara had felt crushed with the realization that noah would never be able to love her .
a dilemma that never would have bothered her before .
but since sobering up , wara found that her feelings of dismay over the situation with noah had n't changed .
of course , she felt ridiculous for having embarrassed herself in front of him .
but it was more than that .
that night she had seen how noah still looked at her with kindness after that stupid moment in the bar .
she knew , now , that she really did love him .
at least it felt that way .
wara closed her eyes against the smooth glass , heart sinking all the way down to her toes .
but he could never love me .
a jolt from underneath the minibus began at the flimsy metal seat and rode up wara 's spine , rattling her cheek against the glass .
she opened her eyes and felt the bus brake solidly , pebbles exploding along the pavement .
the rear end of the vehicle fishtailed towards the sheer cliff at the edge of the road .
soft shrieks and muted curses rose from the other bus passengers , and wara 's heart flew to her throat as nazaret jerked wide awake .
a skidding bus anywhere near the edge of this mountain road was ample cause for alarm .
the road that led down from la paz to coroico was no ordinary road it was booked in most tour guides as the road of death , the most dangerous road in the world .
cut at unbelievable angles into the emerald heart of the andes , the road boasted drop offs of 1800 feet at some points .
nazaret gasped loudly at wara 's side , clutching her little rolling suitcase covered in pink poodles and eiffel towers .
then the minibus drew to a halt , engulfed in a fine mist of pewter colored dirt .
they were still on the road , but wara 's knees were shaking .
five seconds later , the dust glided away , leaving the bus passengers a view of metal debris and a gutted , blown out tire splayed over the pavement .
a bus went over the mountain ! ''
a man called from a few rows back .
wara took a deep breath and knit her shaking fingers together in her lap .
a plump quechua woman on the other side of nazaret answered loudly , it 's the accident from two days ago .
the one from the news . ''
old accident or not , the bus passengers were curious .
the door of the minivan slid open with a hollow whine and everyone spilled out , cautiously tiptoeing over to the cliff .
a humid breeze whipped at their hair from across the ravine and the sunshine seared their shoulders .
the road of death , living up to its name , '' a woman muttered .
a chorus of gasps rose upon viewing what was once a large , sleek tour bus , belly up in a tangle of trees a thousand feet below .
horrified , wara could make out the tiny stick forms of what appeared to be bodies sprawled on the way down to the crash .
good heavens , '' an elderly man stammered .
they 're just going to leave them here ? ''
the rescue teams have been working since the accident , '' replied a skinny kid in a hoodie .
they find the survivors first , then bring up the bodies .
they 'll probably be back tomorrow .
it 's getting late . ''
as wara stared wide eyed down the precipice , the magnitude of rappelling down that sheer cliff to attempt a rescue effort hit her .
her head spun and she backed away , hurrying to the minibus where the driver was ordering them all to return .
nazaret never made it back to sleep during the remaining hour ride to coroico , and wara did her best to focus on the primitive beauty of the living mountains and not the valley below .
the first tinges of dusk were just beginning to paint the expanse over the mountains when coroico came into view , all coral tiled roofs jutting out over an emerald mass of vegetation , like a man riding a foaming wave into the thin air over a precipice that dropped into the valley below .
the bus followed winding roads and soon arrived at coroico 's main plaza , a square affair surrounded by touristy restaurants and tour guide offices .
the rubber wheels of nazaret 's suitcase bounced over cobblestones as she and wara walked towards their hotel .
the hotel bella vista was four blocks from the plaza , and wara sagged with relief as she entered its cream colored hall and spotless wood parquet floor .
a beautiful brick fountain gurgled in the atrium , splashing water across smooth pebbles .
it 's good to be back , '' she muttered , heading towards the room she always reserved at the back of the hotel .
it was really good to be anywhere , after seeing the fate of that bus down in the valley .
inside the room she and nazaret had reserved , a giant plate glass window was framed by crimson and gold curtains .
though the sun had sunk a little more behind the mountains , the amazing spread of the valley below was still visible in muted tones , proving why this hotel was called the beautiful view .
beyond the crimson curtains , tangled tropical life stretched out far below them as far as the eye could see , blanketing the soaring mountains in emerald array .
a winding river cut through the middle of the valley , and wet salmon colored clouds clung to the tops of the mountains that were still lower than the town of coroico .
wara and nazaret fell asleep right after dinner from a tiny pizza restaurant , and did n't move again til morning .
she and nazaret spent the next day exploring the tiny tourist town horseback riding over the emerald mountains , lunch at the little german caf , then a walk over towards casa bonita for homemade organic ice cream .
crashing for a while in coroico 's main plaza under the stars seemed to be the perfect ending .
wara and nazaret collapsed on a bench and stretched their legs out next to a tinkling stone fountain .
groups of fair skinned tourists , wearing khaki shorts with hiking sandals and socks , sat around the plaza laughing too loudly and munching pringles and snickers bars that the local stores kept on hand for the healthy flow of foreigners brought to their town by the adventure tourism industry .
a young bolivian couple strolled by with their son and a pair of mickey mouse balloons , munching hamburgers wrapped in plastic sacks .
and near the tinkling fountain , a group of women in dark islamic robes stood quietly , passing out pieces of paper to anyone interested .
looks like islam is growing here , too . ''
nazaret had also noticed the muslim girls , trying to share their faith here in coroico with people passing by .
not just in the big cities .
next year they finish that huge mosque in cochabamba , you know . ''
wara did know that during the last decade , bolivia and iran had become close friends .
with more muslims coming to bolivia for business or study , some bolivians were converting to islam .
and the iranians had built many hospitals and schools in needy parts of the country .
there was probably one here outside of coroico .
boo ! ''
wara nearly jumped out of her skin as two rough hands covered her eyes , blinding her .
she panicked and tried to lean forward but could n't break away .
she felt a body come over the back of her bench into the space between her and nazaret as the hands disappeared .
annoyed , wara realized that the bony shoulder pressing into hers belonged to tobin , the wiry , blond australian friend of noah 's .
tobin ! ''
wara scolded .
what ? ?
you really freaked me out ! ''
she paused , frowning , wondering what tobin was doing here .
wara leaned around tobin and saw that eduardo sejas , the good looking bolivian who sang with noah at the cafe , was sitting on the edge of the bench next to nazaret , wearing cargo pants , a dirty t shirt , and a heavy duty backpack .
nazaret 's lips were turned up into a smile , and wara followed her gaze to see tobias , the other australian , and noah .
standing in front of her bench , smiling down at her .
wara gulped .
and paled .
what were they doing here ?
aww , we 're sorry we scared you guys ! ''
a quick glance over at eduardo showed white teeth flashing against his tan jaw .
we did n't know it would freak you out . ''
he paused and waved his hand as if to erase the past .
so , hello !
nice to see you ! ''
tobin kissed a still frozen wara on the cheek , and the other guys leaned in to give greetings .
noah was wearing khaki shorts with leather hiking sandals , and his tanned legs were covered in powdery dirt .
a t shirt with cut off sleeves left the tattoo of blue celtic symbols around his upper arm clearly visible .
wara dared to meet his eyes and saw no sign that he was thinking of the last time they 'd hung out , in caf paris .
noah leaned forward to give her a bolivian cheek smooch , and wara felt her face go hot .
what are you guys doing here ? ''
she asked much too sharply .
how could we have ended up coming to the same place for weekends away ?
i never heard noah or any of the guys talking about this !
well , she had also been avoiding him .
well , '' tobin said cheerfully in his lovely accent , we 've been planning this for quite a while , right guys ?
today and tomorrow we are doing 'adventure tourism ' here around coroico , and then monday we are heading out for the hike to the cotapata nature reserve .
what is it , eduardo , a 24 hour hike ? ''
eduardo confirmed , and noah sat down on the concrete edge of the fountain , stretching out his legs .
awesome surprise to find you guys here , too , '' noah smiled at wara and nazaret .
wara swallowed hard .
yeah , i ? ca n't believe it . ''
the surprise of having him show up here in the plaza in coroico , just like that , had still not worn off .
she had to think of something normal to say .
i remember ? last week your parents were supposed to come , right ? ''
the last time wara ran into noah at the martirs , he had mentioned his parents were going to come to bolivia .
his parents were wealthy and did not believe in god .
they were really not happy their son had decided to study social work and come to one of the poorest countries in the western hemisphere .
hurt glinted in noah 's eyes when he told her they were thinking of stopping by cochabamba .
briefly .
on their way to a beach resort in brazil .
now , noah set his jaw and looked away .
nope .
they did n't come .
decided they just could n't do it .
hotels here are n't up to their sky high standards . ''
noah quickly changed the subject .
we 're going to rent a jeep to drive us down to the waterfalls tomorrow .
you guys want to come with us ? ''
but wara 's heart was going crazy .
noah should despise her after how she 'd acted the other day , but he was still smiling .
and so ? nice to her .
could it really just be a coincidence that she and noah had both showed up here , at the same place , at the same time ?
she did n't think so .
maybe there was a chance noah could love her .
because maybe god was behind this .
the idea nearly made her cry .
she knew nazaret would n't be thrilled about hanging out with the guys all day tomorrow noah was already like a brother to her , always over at the martirs ' wrestling with her little siblings or mowing the lawn .
and wara did n't think she was ready to hang out with noah yet .
she needed time to think about this .
to squash the hope that right now was blooming to life .
uh ? thanks .
but we should just let you guys have guy time , '' wara said .
yeah , tomorrow wara and i were going to spend some time alone , '' nazaret grinned at them .
set our priorities straight .
mediate .
all that . ''
suit yourselves , '' tobias waved them away , pretending to be offended .
your loss .
you miss seeing us without our t shirts in the waterfall . ''
tobin , ever the clown .
wara could barely compose herself enough to cheek smooch all the guys goodbye and make it back to the hotel .
there must be some reason god was doing this .
and it had to be something good ?
right ?
7 white plaster alejo shut the metal door of the orange three story house he shared with gabriel and benjamin and stepped out onto the lazy peaceful street only a thursday morning in coroico could deliver .
and only in coroico could one have a view such as alejo and the guys had every time they stepped out their front door .
their front steps lowered to a street with a steep downward slope , rushing down the mountain and leaving a breath taking view of jade mountains peaks and scarlet flowering trees in the distance .
their street was just a narrow lane of stone stairs , really , used only for foot traffic .
a corridor of tangerine and violet flowers grew wild in the dirt , forming a living rainbow along the center of the staircase .
gabriel sat on the second step from the top , elbows propped on his knees , staring at the clouds misting up over the trees in the distance .
he wore a turtleneck , as he had every day since the attack in pakistan a month ago .
his pale green eyes reflected the weak rays of the early morning sun , glazed , vacant , and bleak .
alejo sighed and covered the few steps to slide down onto the cool concrete step next to him .
'morning , '' alejo croaked , then cleared his throat .
i think we 're late to breakfast . ''
gabriel half turned towards him and parted his lips , tried to think of something to say , then gave up .
his gaze went back to the mist in the distance .
you sure you want to come along this weekend ? ''
alejo pressed his lips together .
you can take more time off , you know . ''
after alejo got the call from ishmael in peshawar , the twenty hour trip from here to gabriel had seemed to take forever .
gabriel had recovered well since that day , but the playfulness seemed to be gone from his eyes .
most of his free time was spent praying or playing really melancholy music on the violin his parents gave him .
i know , '' gabriel nodded .
he swatted at a mosquito that was whining its way around his ear .
i rested a lot last week though , at mom 's house .
she about had a heart attack when you called her and told her about the skiing accident in france .
stupid person who installed barbed wire on the slopes . ''
his mouth twitched and some of the old sparkle glowed in gabriel 's eyes .
i mean , what a freak accident , right ?
running into wire at neck level while skiing ? ''
now even alejo almost laughed .
that 's where gabriel 's family thought he went when he disappeared with his friends for weeks at time skiing in france .
it felt good to smile .
gabriel seemed happy thinking about his mom , and the week at her house had fattened him up a bit .
it 's just , i feel weird , you know , '' gabriel sighed , still batting at the stupid mosquito .
like i should n't be here .
i mean , i see how pretty everything is here in coroico , and i am so happy to be alive .
but i should be dead . ''
one of his hands drifted to his throat and gabriel 's adam 's apple bobbed .
god gave me back my life , but now i feel that my life has to totally belong to him , you know ?
and what if i do n't do what he wants ?
what if i mess up ? ''
gabriel paused , and wrinkled his nose .
does that make any sense ? ''
god would n't save your life just so you can feel all tortured about it , '' alejo frowned .
he saved you because he loves you , not so you can be his slave the rest of your life . ''
gabriel looked at alejo , one sandy eyebrow raised .
yeah , but imagine how ticked off he 'll be if after he saved my measly little life i sit around living for myself instead of doing everything i can to serve him . ''
did ishmael talk to you about all this ? ''
alejo asked , suddenly feeling cold as he remembered the trip with the khan to the tribal area .
he 's not trying to tell you to go spend the rest of your redeemed life as a taliban fighter or something , right ? ''
no ! ''
gabriel actually smiled now and stood up , dusting off his sweat pants .
can you see me with all those tough guys , wearing a turban ?
i ca n't even grow a beard ! ''
alejo had to laugh at the image of gabriel wielding an ak 47 and smoking opium in the middle of the desert .
who knows ? ''
gabriel put his hands on both hips , and stretched a little , leaning to one side .
whatever allah has for me might even be good . ''
and it might even include ambrin . ''
gabriel scoffed , but seemed quite pleased by the thought .
let 's go over to the caf , '' he grinned .
i 'm starving . ''
gabriel and alejo joined the rest of the team in the caf attached to the side of the modest kory tours office , which at present was sealed shut by a padlocked , roll down metal door until office hours began .
the tour agency was their cover here in coroico , keeping them all employed in the eyes of this lazy tropical town .
benjamin also worked as a doctor in a little clinic sponsored by the government of iran .
stalin spent his mornings at the local elementary school , teaching , of all things , morality and ethics class .
the two of them now sat at one of the caf 's small tables , leisurely spreading jam and margarine onto fresh bread from the corner store .
lzaro hummed behind the counter in the food prep space , sporting a white apron and pouring steaming organic espresso from coroico into glazed ceramic mugs .
hey , good morning ! ''
lzaro called cheerfully .
he kicked the mini refrigerator door closed after replacing the milk .
come on and have breakfast !
fresh marraqueta bread , and i 'm letting you all have some of my brownies . ''
alejo grinned and he and gabriel scraped some chairs over to the tiny table with the others .
lzaro had learned to make awesome brownies and cheesecake from his mom back in puerto rico , and his desserts made the caf really popular with tourists .
sure , i think i could choke down one of your brownies today . ''
gabriel casually nodded his thanks as lzaro plopped down a mug of strong creamy coffee in front of him .
or two .
depends on how much i think you need to have your self esteem improved today by me eating your food so you wo n't , you know , think it 's gross or anything .
oww ! ''
a stale circle of bread flew through the air from where lzaro had returned behind the counter and thumped gabriel in the side of the head .
gabriel rubbed his head in mock pain as alejo jerked crossly towards lzaro .
hey !
he 's got to be careful , you know . ''
alejo knew that the worst of gabriel 's injury was healed , but he still felt protective , maybe guilty that something so awful had happened to a member of his team and he had n't been able to stop it .
so , '' stalin mumbled around a large mouthful of bread smothered in jelly , we 're gon na meet our clients half way up the trail , right ? ''
alejo made a face at the sight of crumbs spewing across the table .
yeah , all eight of the paraguayans are going to meet us up there . ''
they would meet on the trail up to uchumachi , the mountain top where kory tours led the wilderness survival tours that were completely booked every other week by prism trainees .
everyone down here in coroico thought the kory tour guys were up there teaching survival skills to tourists from all over south america .
uchumachi was isolated , perfect for alejo and his team to train others .
this weekend would be extra busy , because there would be a special guest ishmael khan , all the way from pakistan .
it had been a year since the khan had attended one of their trainings , but he claimed that it was long overdue , that he had missed bolivia and missed them all .
alejo suspected that he mainly wanted to check on gabriel , his nephew '' , who had given him quite a scare .
as the junior member of the leadership team , lzaro was staying behind to man the caf and kory tours .
lzaro did n't mind terribly much , well aware that the gringa girls who came to the caf for organic coffee thought he looked hot in the irish tweed hat he always wore and that white apron .
the caf would n't have any business without his brownies , anyway , so it was a logical choice .
so , we 'll be back on monday afternoon , then . ''
alejo clasped hands briefly with lzaro , and swung one of the streamlined north face backpacks full of supplies they had prepared last night onto his back .
tuesday we 'll start getting everything ready for the crusade . ''
alejo and his team had already picked the spot for the operation against salazar , a greasy sandwich kiosk in cochabamba 's market where the man met his old college buddy every second friday of the month .
the street was packed and hemmed in by tall buildings .
no one would ever know where the sniper 's bullet had come from .
call me with any news , '' alejo instructed half way out the door , then turned back to snatch another brownie off the table .
thanks for breakfast . ''
anytime ! ''
lzaro called , tipping the brim of his hat to them all .
as they left , alejo could have sworn he saw lzaro checking his reflection in the bamboo framed mirror along the wall , flicking off stray bread crumbs with a satisfied smile .
it was 8 30 in the morning on sunday when alejo 's sat phone buzzed with a call .
the group had just finished a discussion called ethical questions related to justice '' and were now lounging around debating and munching granola bars for breakfast .
he pulled the phone out of the leg pocket of his pants , glancing at the screen for id .
lzaro . ''
alejo wandered from the clearing and entered the relative coolness of the forest at the top of the uchumachi mountain .
a thick cloud of mist still hung over the tops of the tangled foliage , not yet burned away by the mid morning tropical sun .
alejo .
i 've got news . ''
lzaro 's voice twitched with excitement .
the speaker for the crusade we 've been planning ? .he 's down here .
i saw him . ''
alejo blinked , suddenly at a loss for words .
uh , he 's there ?
in coroico ? ''
was n't that what lzaro had just said ?
do you know why ? ''
yeah , you 're going to love this .
it appears the guy is some kind of amateur sculptor and he entered that contest here in coroico this weekend .
i saw the guy walk by on the sidewalk this morning , when i was setting up the caf .
he 's with five staff members , and i followed them over to henrich 's for breakfast .
i got a table close to theirs out on the porch and heard , like , everything they said . ''
a long , long pause .
he 's going to thailand again , '' lzaro said .
after her leaves coroico , the day after tomorrow . ''
alejo clenched his teeth , hard .
ok , i 'm not sure you really want to hear the rest , '' lzaro rambled on , but you 're going to anyway . ''
gabriel appeared next to alejo and alejo punched the sat phone 's speaker button since they were away from the others and a thousand feet above coroico .
lzaro 's voice blared distorted out of the phone 's miniature speakers .
after they finished breakfast , i took a little stroll through the plaza to check out the sculpture exhibition , which i had not done since i 've been so darn busy at work this weekend .
i found , unfortunately , the statue that s ? that the speaker entered in the exhibition and i am just sad that i 'm the one who had to see it and be here describing it to you . ''
i need to get back to the group .
can you hurry this up ? ''
i 'm getting there , '' lzaro insisted crossly .
so the guy made this humongous statue out of white plaster or something .
i think it 's supposed to be himself as some great benefactor .
he 's got himself sitting on a chair , and then around him are four little boys on the ground , looking at him .
there 's an older boy , like maybe twelve , sitting on the guy 's lap .
there 's a lot of detail in this thing , so i go closer and see that all the kids have either a little notebook or backpack with their name engraved on it .
like i said , wish you were here . ''
alejo rubbed his temple and spoke before allowing himself to think .
did any of them say ruben ? ''
there was a long pause , and then lzaro said , cautiously , now that 's freaky .
how did you know ?
that 's the kid on the guy 's lap . ''
alejo 's head reeled but he managed to focus , fingers digging into the phone .
rage filled him , and he let it , anything to keep away the tears he really did n't want gabriel seeing .
gabriel leaned against a fat banana plant , visually disturbed .
what are you going to do , che ? ''
i 'll call you back . ''
alejo flipped the phone shut and jammed it into his pocket .
he and gabriel stared at each other for a moment , and then alejo whirled around and began to pace .
fallen eucalyptus leaves perfumed the air as his sandals crushed them into the ground .
we have to move the crusade up , '' he told gabriel , still pacing .
i agree .
we have to do it before the trip to thailand . ''
alejo slammed a fist into the trunk of the banana plant , swearing loudly .
ruben !
to think that after all this time , salazar still remembered , was still gloating .
and why should n't he ?
no one cared , no one was going to make him pay .
where was justice ?
apparently , hiding her eyes .
no , god is justice , and his eyes are always on the earth , to reward the righteous and punish the wicked .
and right now , i 'm his hands .
god help me if i just sit here and watch without doing something .
gabriel was trying to calm him down .
listen , che , i 've got all the equipment we need at boris ' house .
i can hike into town and find a new spot .
i do n't need a lot of time to do calculations . ''
alejo narrowed his eyes at gabriel , feeling possessed .
he tried to concentrate , running through the same arguments he had had with himself on too many occasions .
are you really thinking of killing the guy ?
murder is a sin .
yeah ? but so is allowing the innocent to be hurt or killed .
are there other options ?
let the national authorities punish him according to the law ... that really had n't gone so well in the past .
salazar and anyone with the power to do anything were constantly scratching each others ' backs .
a total indifference to his activities had only made salazar more bold in breaking the law , knowing no one would care .
no . ''
alejo stopped in his tracks and held up one hand .
in cochabamba the sniper could easily get away .
it ca n't work here in coroico . ''
gabriel seemed crushed .
coroico is too small , '' alejo continued , too nosy .
everyone sees everything , and the population here is too small for us to avoid suspicion in the investigation .
but i have an idea .
tell me honestly if you can do this . ''
he explained his idea to gabriel , whose lips twitched into a smile , then broadened into a genuine grin as he received the challenge to put his considerable talents into action now .
gabriel let out a low whistle and looked at alejo .
sounds great , but there 's always the possibility of more people being onsite besides just the speaker .
the staff , for sure , would be collateral . ''
of course , '' alejo said .
let them be collateral .
they know , i 'm sure of it .
they 're with him almost 24 7 . ''
oh , this is going to be fun ! ''
gabriel 's eyes were shining again , and he pounded alejo on the shoulder before turning back towards the clearing .
i 'll get some stuff from boris ' place .
then , i 'm going to mail a package . ''
gabriel marched happily back towards the khan and the other guys , probably to share the good news that they would get to be part of the operation as a bonus to the weekend .
alejo slowly slid down against the trunk of the sleek banana plant and buried his face into his arms .
8 scarlet this would never , ever happen back in ohio .
noah stood on the edge of a jagged black boulder , wet from bare feet to shoulder with icy spray from a nearby sixty foot waterfall .
two sapphire butterflies slowly flapped their powdery wings as they rested on noah 's right bicep , inhaling droplets of water from his exposed skin with their thin black tube mouths .
a dozen more butterflies soared through the spray near him , dodging clouds of crystalline mist tossed off the roaring waterfall .
they formed a living rainbow of jade , coral , buttercup yellow , and scarlet , flitting in circles around noah 's body , landing on tobin 's and tobias ' legs .
lzaro from kory tours , who was working even late sunday afternoon , waited for them down below next to a basket full of fresh picked mangos and oranges for a snack before they headed back to coroico .
it was may , nearly winter in bolivia , but here the earth was still full of butterflies and tangled flowers .
if noah were home in ohio , he would probably be sprawled on the couch in sweats , watching american idol reruns and eating doritos .
thank you god for letting me be here .
bolivia is beautiful .
this waterfall was the third noah and the guys had visited this afternoon with lzaro in the hired kory tours pick up truck .
noah now stood next to the foaming pool that formed the base of the waterfall .
the climb around the edge of the pool , grabbing frigid rocks for support , had been awesome making it to the back of the roaring waterfall , staring through the rushing water from the darkened cave behind it , had been unbelievable .
now the sun was beginning to drop behind the forested mountains , and the chill of wet clothes caused noah to sigh and admit that it was time to change and head back to town .
for a huge dinner , hopefully .
with all the hiking and rock climbing they had done today , he felt that tonight he would eat like a horse .
and sleep like a baby .
c'mon , i think we should go . ''
eduardo had worked his way back from behind the falls and now stood ankle deep in swirling water next to noah .
he leaned close to be heard over the pounding of water upon water .
it 's getting late . ''
sure , ok , '' noah mouthed , and gently flicked the blue butterflies off his arm , sorry to see them go .
the two australians had already begun to climb down the wet , slippery rocks high above the truck , baseball caps dripping water down their sun burned faces .
noah slipped into the cold water , feeling the push of the uneven pebbles at the pool 's bottom against his feet .
being tall was an advantage in this case , and he did n't find it too difficult to discover all the handholds and make it safely back to the flat ground close to the road .
all of the guys pulled on the t shirts that they had left strewn across some scrubby plants near the truck , and then sat on dry boulders in silence , eating juicy mangos , letting their soaked shorts and legs dry a little in the sun .
it was good they had brought kory tour 's truck instead of the jeep .
at least now they would n't have to get the seats of the jeep wet and squishy with their behinds .
noah smiled to himself , wiped his sticky fingers on the sides of his shorts , then got up and followed the guys to the truck .
they made sure everyone had their cameras , phones , and was wearing shoes , then swung themselves up into the bed of the rusted white pickup , sitting on the sides .
tobias went up front to keep lzaro company , and as soon as he had slammed the pickup door , they bumped their way back onto the road , headed to coroico .
so , what did you guys think ? ''
lzaro turned around to look at them through the open back window of the truck 's cab , hands casually gripping the wheel .
the guy 's english had a funky british accent going on lzaro told them he had gotten his masters in england .
are n't the falls awesome ? ''
oh my gosh , yeah , '' tobin said , practically yelling to be heard over the noise created by speeding over the uneven road .
that was the most fun i 've had in a long time .
kayaking yesterday was cool though , too . ''
lzaro is the man for kayaking ! ''
eduardo said loudly .
this guy taught me everything i know about camping . ''
noah and eduardo had come to coroico before and spent the day kayaking with lzaro as their guide last year .
it was great that lzaro had been available this year , because the guy was a lot of fun and knew everything about the great outdoors .
he even had a workshop in town where he brought people in from little villages around coroico and taught them how to promote the cool things in nature right in their towns for when the tourists came .
so you guys are going to cotapata tomorrow , right ? ''
lzaro asked , adjusting a pair of dark shades over his eyes and pulling his wool irish cap down against the glare of the setting sun .
his pearly teeth shone against his tan as he grinned at them in the rearview mirror .
yep , '' eduardo said .
we 're really pumped for this hike . ''
cotapata national park was going to be amazing .
a diverse ecosystem , filled with species that ranged from the giant condor to the spider monkey .
lzaro let up on the gas a little bit now , as coroico was getting closer and a higher speed could be risky with more vehicles on the road .
spiky bushes laden with tiny red coffee beans lined the road , and behind them glossy banana plants sprouted , bundles of ripening violet bananas clustering from their stalks .
the citric aroma of the three oranges noah had eaten wafted to his nostrils , still on his skin , and he inhaled deeply .
this was tropical paradise .
the pickup slowed down even more as they rounded a curve in the gravel and came across a girl walking along the edge of the road .
the long indian skirt and maroon bandana tied over her hair caused noah to stare for a second before he realized they were familiar because he was looking at wara , walking back into coroico .
hey , stop the truck ! ''
he called to lzaro , leaning forward to bang on the outside of the cab .
tiny pebbles skidded as lzaro calmly slid the truck to a stop , still to wara 's back .
noah leaned over the side of the truck .
tu , mujer ! ''
he called out in his most booming voice .
you , woman ! ''
eduardo , also realizing it was wara , crossed his arms and looked down at the ground , laughing .
wara whipped her head around with startled eyes , then her face spread into a smile when she saw who was in the back of the truck .
hey , guys ! ''
she said in english , waving .
you scared me !
again .
are you heading back into town ? ''
yeah , '' noah said .
can we give you a ride ? ''
she shrugged .
ok , sure .
i was taking a walk , but i 've been gone for a long time now and it 's staring to get dark . ''
she walked over to the truck and climbed up into the back before tobias could even get out of the front to offer her the more comfortable seat .
go up front ! ''
eduardo smiled at her , motioning for tobias to be a gentleman .
it 's dusty back here . ''
it 's fine , '' wara waved away his concern .
we 're , like , almost there . ''
eduardo and tobin were taking up most of the space on one of the small pickup 's sides , so wara came and sat down next to noah , tucking the fabric of her pretty skirt between her knees .
thanks , man !
we can go now ! ''
noah called to lzaro , and the truck zoomed to life , sending gusts of wind flowing around their bodies again .
little strands of wara 's dark hair were tickling her face , and noah leaned forward to kiss her on the cheek and say , hola ! ''
hola ! ''
she said back , seeming a little nervous .
wara 's probably not used to riding in the back of pickups .
i should have made tobias get out of the front .
so , what have you been doing today ? ''
he asked her , casually balancing one of his arms on the side of the truck close to her back in case they hit a bump .
would n't want to lose her .
oh , well , mostly just exploring , enjoying time by myself since nazaret left this morning .
the martirs came to pick her up on the way to another bible conference in caranavi .
i just came from that really cool restaurant , villa bella .
ever go there ? ''
yeah , . ''
noah remembered .
that place run by the hippy lady and her family .
yoga classes upstairs .
in the middle of the jungle .
their homemade ice cream rocks ! ''
uh huh , and it 's all organic . ''
wara smiled , apparently distracted from fears of falling out of the truck enough to look into noah 's eyes .
i had pineapple ice cream , and then , '' a dramatic pause , i got some henna tattoos .
just because i 'm too much of a chicken to get a real one . ''
her eyes twinkled , and noah realized she was n't wearing her glasses today .
the thought struck him that wara cadogan really was beautiful .
why had n't some guy snatched her up ?
wow , do we get to see , wara ? ''
tobin asked loudly , then flushed and cleared his throat .
i mean , depending of course on where you have them ? ok , never mind . ''
wara raised one eyebrow , seeming to enjoy tobin putting his foot in his mouth .
noah could n't help but laugh .
they 're just on my hands and feet . ''
wara shook her head and held out a hand and a sandaled foot for viewing .
that 's where henna tattoos work the best . ''
before noah 's eyes could focus on the designs wara had on her feet , lzaro 's voice came from the front of the truck wara cadogan ? ''
noah glanced over to see his tour guide friend staring at them in the rearview mirror , jaw hanging , eyes still hidden behind the glasses .
lzaro knew wara ?
waiting for wara to answer to her name , noah turned back to her , about to say something until he saw her face .
she looked as if she had just seen a phantom appear at the foot of her bed at midnight , while wide awake .
wara ?
eres tu ? ''
lzaro kept driving , but turned around to see wara himself , staring longer than was healthy when at the wheel .
is that you ? ''
lzaro slid off his shades , and noah heard wara gasp , audibly .
lzaro ? ''
she said , unsteadily .
yeah , it 's me . ''
lzaro sounded unnaturally cheerful , and his eyes were glued to wara in the mirror .
imagine seeing you here . ''
his gaze flitted to noah , and then to noah 's arm behind wara on the truck bed wall .
lzaro 's face blanched , and then , after a long pause , noah heard him say , well , dude , i 'm not sure if i should congratulate you on your choice in women .
i did n't know you two were together or i could have warned you about her .
fun for one night , you know .
not quite the good little missionary girl you might expect.
noah felt his neck begin to burn , shocked by the words coming from lzaro 's mouth .
he whipped around towards wara and saw her cheeks painted scarlet .
why are you doing this ? ''
she squeaked .
lzaro ignored her .
she 's pretty though , is n't she , noah ? ''
he winked into the mirror and then slid his dark glasses back on .
enjoy . ''
stop the truck ! ''
wara 's hoarse voice broke into noah 's pounding head , just in time to see that they were about to pass the hotel bella vista , where the girls were staying .
i 'm getting out ! ''
the brakes slammed to a halt in a billow of dust and lzaro muttered , fine . ''
wara was out of the back of the truck before noah could even process what had just happened .
she jogged into the hotel without even looking back .
wara ! ''
noah called after her , absolutely furious , shivering with anger .
lzaro had already hit the gas , but noah stood up just as the truck jerked into action and he vaulted over the side onto the gravel .
the momentum threw him down onto one knee with a skid , and he leaped up and raced after wara into the hotel .
how could he ? what is lzaro 's problem ?
wara !
wait ! ''
noah saw her disappearing down a hallway at the back of the hotel , and he slid on the tile past a fountain and managed to stop just outside the door to her room , which slammed shut in his face .
muffled , gasping sobs came from inside the door , and noah froze .
he was angry .
really angry .
trying to compose himself , he knocked loudly on the door .
wara ? please .
i ca n't believe he would say that .
do you want me to go beat the jerk up ?
we actually ? he was our tour guide .
i know where he lives .
i 'll go ? ''
noah , just go away ! ''
wara wailed from inside , voice muffled through the thick wooden door .
i 'm going home , to cochabamba !
right now ! ''
i 'll ? ''
i 'm sorry ? i ca n't .
go away ! ''
she 's really serious .
but i 'm not letting her get on some bus or taxi alone , like this .
noah glanced around the empty hallway , dripping all over the hotel 's wooden parquet floor and staring at the turquoise grout in between the red tiles on the wall .
i 'll go back with her .
i do n't need to go to cotapata with the guys .
wara was n't going to be in the mood to discuss this at the moment in fact , noah could imagine her inside the hotel room , angrily throwing clothes into her purple backpack , ready to leave this place forever .
breaking into a run , noah bounded down the hotel 's steps three at a time and spun out onto the street .
he sprinted across the plaza towards his hostel to get his stuff , face still burning , images of his fist connecting with lzaro 's jawbone flashing through his mind .
he had better be done dropping the guys off by the time i get to the hostel , or i may have to do time in a bolivian jail for assault , noah raged .
what happened ?
i thought lzaro was a nice guy , and suddenly he turned into a lying idiot .
bolivian jail was n't on the menu today the white pickup truck was nowhere in sight when noah burst through the door of his hostel , panting like some rabid tourist from the wild .
he jammed the key into the lock of his room and stuffed his few clothes , in various states of muddiness , into his backpack .
pulling on his last pair of dry pants , noah slammed the door of their room shut and half ran down the hall again , while dialing eduardo 's number on his cell .
eduardo , and the australians in the background , protested from the mexican restaurant where they had been dropped off that noah should n't miss out on their trip to cotapata just because lzaro had suddenly become a moron .
thanks guys , but i 've got to go with her , ok ?
sorry .
i 'll catch you later . ''
alright , sure .
we 'll miss you , man .
it wo n't be the same without you . ''
noah flipped the phone shut just as he rounded the corner into the plaza , right on the street where all the buses parked before they took off for la paz .
wara would need to get to la paz first , then take another bus to cochabamba .
at the moment , the street was dark and empty under the glowing street lamps .
the pharmacy where he knew they sometimes sold bus tickets when the agency was closed on sundays still had its door open , and noah could see that a man in a white lab coat was rearranging bottles behind the counter .
he jogged over and burst in , gasping , buenas noches !
are there any buses to la paz tonight ? ''
no , no buses tonight , '' the elderly man answered his inquiry .
the scent of mint pomade and syrupy orange made noah 's head buzz .
the agencies do n't want to take passengers out this late , you know .
not safe on that road . ''
oh yeah .
the road of death .
but buses do leave at night sometimes , do n't they ? ''
noah really hoped he could help wara out .
i think i rode a bus to la paz after dark one time . ''
there is that one bus , parked down there by the store . ''
when noah looked lost , the man came around the glass display counter and walked with noah over to the door , pointing a block to the north .
that 's a chartered bus that some group is going back to la paz in tonight .
the driver is over there , smoking , just outside the door .
maybe you could talk with him . ''
thank you very much . ''
noah shook the man 's leathery hand , and backed out of the pharmacy , destination medium sized bus near the store .
just like the pharmacy guy said , the driver was sitting on a rubber step of the bus , smoking , wearing a cheap brown sweater and scuffed leather shoes .
can we buy a ride on this bus ? ''
noah asked him , trying not to appear crazed and breathless after so much running around .
for me and one other person .
do you have room ? ''
the man took a drag of his cigarette and sized noah up .
we have lots of room .
this bus was hired to take a certain group of people back to la paz tonight .
but the tickets would be expensive , so we do n't have many other passengers . ''
that 's fine , '' noah said , willing to shell out the few dollars more .
he could n't forget wara 's white face when lzaro had said all that crap .
how much ? ''
eighty bolivianos , '' the driver said , after a pause .
each . ''
noah peeled the bills out of an outer pocket of his backpack that was still dry .
what time does it leave ? ''
he realized he should have asked first .
right now , '' the man said , though no one else seemed to be around .
the bus driver shuffled up the stairs into the bus and reappeared with a ticket book , where he made noah print the two passengers ' names and identification numbers .
he scribbled his passport number , and then totally made up a number for wara , since he had no idea what her passport number was and at the moment really did n't care .
eight o'clock .
en punto , '' the driver said , carefully ripping the tickets off and passing them to noah .
on the dot . ''
sure , '' noah replied distractedly , wondering if wara would show up by then .
what if she did n't come ?
he should get back to the plaza so he would n't miss her .
noah walked back to the plaza , ignoring the tempting aroma of frying hamburgers from a silver food cart on the corner .
a group of well dressed people , laughing together in muted tones , passed him , headed towards the bus .
noah felt a moment of panic .
what if the last bus out tonight left without them ?
right then , like magic , wara came towards him across the plaza , nearly flying .
she was wearing jeans instead of that beautiful skirt and noah would have recognized that light blue alpaca sweater anywhere .
how long had wara had it , three , four years ?
noah slid down onto an empty bench right in her path , feet planted on the ground , really hoping she would n't be angry .
hey , '' he said , as wara stopped cold in front of him .
she looked devastated , red eyes visible even in the dim lighting of the plaza .
please do n't be mad , but i got some bus tickets for us .
it was n't easy , cause , like , no buses were going out tonight , but i found a special one that i think will be really nice .
it 's leaving right now . ''
wara 's mouth opened and then snapped shut .
she stared at the two tickets noah clutched in his hand .
i 'm gon na go back to cochabamba with you , '' he added , just in case he had forgotten to mention that part of his plan .
i just did n't want you to go all alone . ''
he paused , noticing her lip was quivering .
are you mad ? ''
wara burst into tears , and then tried to hide it by taking a deep breath .
but ? your trip ? ''
who cares ? ''
noah shrugged .
another time . ''
he got up and held out his hand for wara to hand him her backpack .
c'mon , i think i saw the guys who hired this bus heading over there , so we 'd better hurry up . ''
amazingly , wara allowed herself to be led over to the bus , whose engine was now purring lustily , and they climbed up the steps into the darkened interior .
inside , the bus was only about a third full , most of the people sitting towards the back in a group , settling in for a nap on the way back to the capital .
the men wore slick jackets with dress shirts , and most of the women seemed to be wearing pantsuits of some kind .
probably the group who chartered the bus .
not very comfortable clothes for traveling .
noah squinted at their tickets , and then found the seat numbers on the right side , pretty near the front .
he put wara 's purple backpack under the seat by the window , and then he waited , a little nervously , for wara to get into her seat first .
she 's not talking to me .
is she mad ?
of course she 's mad the stuff lzaro said !
that idiotic jerk .
why would he spout off like that about wara ?
noah felt his face get hot again as he slid into his spot next to the aisle and he wondered how wara could be so quiet .
why are you doing this ? ''
he heard wara 's broken voice echo in his brain , and he leaned back into his seat with a sigh .
oh god , i really need some help right now , cause i 'm really angry .
help me to love my enemy that 's who our psychopathic tour guide has suddenly morphed into and make this sudden turn of events work according to your plan .
noah turned his eyes to wara , and saw , with a twist of his heart , that she had leaned forward to rest her forehead against the velvet seat back in front of her , tears sliding silently down her cheeks and dripping onto the floor .
9 silver never before had wara truely understood the expression i wanted to crawl into a hole and die . ''
noah sat next to her , and she wanted to die , just die .
what was he even doing here ?
nothing was ever going to be ok between them ever again .
she barely noticed as the last of the passengers filed onto the bus , sitting somewhere behind her and noah .
good .
her eyes were so bloodshot and swollen from sobbing in the hotel room that she could n't even pretend to be civil to anyone in the mood to talk .
wara stared out the window , nervously winding her foot up in the strap of her backpack under the seat , again feeling her eyes sting .
she 's a lot of fun for one night .
not the good little missionary girl you may imagine ? enjoy ! ''
his voice ran through her head without her permission , and wara blinked away the tears , truly wishing for that dark hole and covers to pull over her head and hide forever .
with a soft hiss , the bus door closed and the vehicle rumbled to life .
she sat in a daze as the bus began to crawl its way along the narrow , darkened streets , leaving coroico behind .
the hum of the highway enveloped them and wara slumped forward against the seat back , miserable .
she knew he was there and was going to say something eventually , but she actually jumped when noah 's voice broke the silence .
i ca n't believe lzaro would just make up all that stuff about you , '' he spat .
she glanced at him for a millisecond and saw that his jaw was squared , eyes stormy .
i mean , what is his problem ?
this is the second time we used his tour group to do stuff here in coroico , and i thought the guy was cool .
how in the world did he ? ''
the look on wara 's face must have cut him off .
noah thinks lzaro made it all up .
her heart broke then and she felt herself staring at him , pale in the moonlight streaming through the window .
it was n't a lie . ''
she nearly gagged on the words .
i used to date him . ''
huh ? ''
noah blinked .
wara felt her face crumple .
oh , noah !
why did you come with me ?
you should have stayed ? do you want to go back ?
we 're barely out of town . ''
now she was blubbering , but the memory of everything was taking over the things lzaro said .
things that had happened that first year .
no .
there 's no way i 'm letting you stay on this bus yourself . ''
noah still seemed a little stunned by what she had just said .
you used to date lzaro ? ''
for like six weeks .
the first year i lived in cochabamba .
we met at a church youth thing . ''
this breath , this space in the universe she now occupied next to noah , who she loved and had to confess these things to , was without question the worst moment in her life .
if she could just say what had happened , she might curl into the seat and die in peace , next to noah .
so one night , '' she mumbled , i had too much to drink . ''
like the other night .
for a little while , wara had totally forgotten about that lovely scene at caf paris .
new waves of shame washed over her .
her hands twisted the hem of her sweater into a pulp .
and it was like he said .
that night was the last time i saw him ? because i could n't handle seeing him after what happened . ''
she was telling all this to the velvet pattern on the back of the seat , terrified to look at noah and see his disgust .
he was n't looking at the girl he thought he knew , and now he realized the truth about her .
wara , '' he started , but she cut him off , laughing breathlessly .
and that 's not everything !
the morning after it happened , we were supposed to fly to puerto rico together for his brother 's wedding .
he made such a big deal about it , because he said he 'd never had a 'nice ' girlfriend before to take home to meet his family and he knew his mom was going to be all proud of him .
lzaro 's parents even paid for our tickets . ''
wara felt dizzy , and she squeezed her eyes shut .
had she really done all this ?
she 'd spent so long trying not to think about it , pretending she was the kind of person who would never act this way .
but it was all true .
she licked her lips , determined to finish the story .
so , the last night i saw lzaro , he gave me five thousand dollars for the trip , just to keep for him because in the morning he had to stop in the market and get a present for his mom and he did n't want to get robbed there on the way to the airport .
and ? he also gave me the diamond wedding ring for his brother 's wife .
she had him buy it in bolivia , because it was cheaper than in puerto rico .
that was at dinner .
but later , i felt so horrible about everything that i never showed up to go to puerto rico in the morning .
i just stood lzaro up at the airport .
i went to montana for four months and never talked to him again .
when i came back to cochabamba he was gone .
i just ran away from him , because it was easier to just not think about it .
never gave him back the money and the ring .
he definitely hates me now . ''
there , she 'd told him everything .
there was a giant split somewhere inside her heart this adventurous girl who loved languages and jesus and living here in bolivia .
and then , on the dark side , this liar who had slept with a guy while working as a missionary and never had the guts to face him afterwards .
she felt like she had just turned herself inside out , here on this bus in front of noah the rotten inside she always kept hidden from the world was now revealed , stinking up this bus , her entire life .
noah was speaking , but focusing on his voice was a struggle .
but you repented . ''
the tone was a statement , not a question .
and god forgave you . ''
yes . ''
wara shrugged weakly .
but it does n't feel like it . ''
noah pulled wara 's chin up with one finger , until her face was tilted towards his .
c'mon , look at me ! ''
he insisted .
wara tried , but abject humiliation would n't let her eyes connect with his .
in that story jesus told , '' he said , the father took his son back after he spent everything in wild living , like we all do . ''
noah took both of wara 's hands in his and leaned in closer .
but when the son came back , the father did n't just let him slave away as a servant .
he threw a party .
he loves you , wara .
you 're back . ''
noah 's adam 's apple bobbed and he paused , gazing out the window behind wara , seemingly lost in thought .
a moment later his eyes rounded and he jerked his gaze back to her .
his grip on her hands tightened .
and he was staring at her .
wide eyed and staring .
i have something to give you , '' he finally said , releasing her hands hastily and digging around in his pocket .
wara 's gaze spiraled to the floor , still dizzy with shame in spite of noah 's reminder that she was forgiven .
nice words , yeah .
god could forgive , but how could he ever feel same about her , seeing what she had done ?
it was one thing to not punish her for her sins , and quite another to still like her , to want to spend time with her .
the same for noah .
he was witness to her worst moment .
maybe several worst moments .
he could still be nice , but he would never look at her without thinking about ? that .
her heart was aching when she felt noah slide closer , wrapping one long arm around her shoulder .
wara inhaled sharply and met his eyes , completely confused .
noah was touching her ?
he was supposed to be repulsed .
he sat like that in silence for a full minute , eyes flickering , obviously running through something in his head .
then he slid his arm from her shoulder and scooted back to his own seat , fist tightly closed around something in his left hand .
i have something to ? to ask you , '' he announced , and the goofy grin that began to spread across his face caused wara to blink .
now might not be a good time .
in fact , you just might kill me .
but we 've known each other for a really long time now , so i just ? ''
noah 's voice faltered and wara sniffed , completely mystified .
he better not be about to ask me advice about some sin problem he has , now that we 're on the subject and he happens to have a friend here who is quite familiar with sinfulness !
? i just have this ? for you , '' noah was going on .
feel free to laugh at me , as long as it makes you feel better . ''
wara 's eyes focused blankly on a silver ring engraved with arabic letters that noah was holding out towards her , glimmering in the faint light from the front of the bus .
wara , i ? ''
noah shot her a lopsided smile and murmured to himself , you 're doing this all wrong . ''
he leaped to his feet , almost banging his head on the bus 's dark ceiling , and managed to get down on one knee in the aisle .
wara 's eyes popped and flashed between the silver ring and noah .
what ?
had he gone crazy ?
ok , now i 'm sweating , '' noah said , rubbing a hand across his face and sucking in a deep breath .
i 'm kind of messing this up .
this ring is something i got in egypt when i studied there for a semester when i was twenty .
i kept it for a while , to give to the unlucky girl i will attempt to trick into dating and then marrying me .
it says , '' noah held the ring out towards wara again , on one shaking palm , 'my beloved is mine and i am his ' .
i wanted to ask you if you would consider thinking of me like that ? if you would like to be with me ? get to know me ? think about marrying me someday !
if you did n't get sick of me while we 're dating , you know . ''
noah 's hands were shaking , though he tried to smile , and he actually seemed on the verge of tears .
wara 's jaw went slack as noah quickly added , i mean , you do n't have to decide right now , but i would like us to get to know each other .
i want to be with you , wara ! ''
what ?
you ca n't .
how could you ? ''
wara tried in vain to think of something to say , jerking around in her seat as scattered applause broke out from the back of the bus .
they were watching !
why was noah on his knees ?
he 's crazy !
he said he wanted to be with me ?
is this a joke ?
it 's not a joke he 's sweating and waiting for me to answer !
he looks like he really ? still likes me ?
in reality , noah 's eyes said that he still loved her .
of course , i love you , '' wara blurted .
but how could you ? ''
ssshhh ? ''
noah hauled himself out of his scrunched up position in the aisle , laughing but looking stricken .
are you serious ?
you actually love me ? ''
noah sat down next to her again , and wara gaped at him , dumbstruck .
she nodded .
ok then , '' he said nervously .
for a moment no one spoke , and wara 's heart pounded in her ears like a tom tom .
we , my dear , have a lot to talk about .
but not now .
let 's just rest , ok. come here ? just rest . ''
noah put his arm around her tentatively , watching her to make sure it as ok. as he pulled her close , he slid the silver ring on her finger and squeezed her hand .
all wara could do was lean against him in an amazed stupor , thinking this could not be real .
everyone in the world is desperate for grace . ''
the quote from a book wara had read this year exploded in her mind like sparkling firecrackers .
this is what 's unique about christianity grace .
no other religion has a god who gives grace . ''
her heart was thudding against her ribs , but her eyelids drooped .
wara leaned back against the seat , noah 's arm around her , and her heart slowed until she finally fell asleep .
she came to consciousness as if in a dream .
a roaring heat swallowed her and something solid and icy smacked her in the head .
wara 's eyes flew open as wide as they had ever opened in her life , and what she saw was a mountain of writhing silver flames .
and then it was gone .
she tried to grab on to something , but it was like a nightmare catapult flung her into space .
the flames spiraled overhead again and she opened her mouth to scream , hearing only a sickening crunch of metal and glass shattering around her like crystal rain .
the flaming bus lifted off the ground over her head and hurdled away with a whoosh of fire and wara realized she had fallen out of the window of the bus onto her back .
just like that , there was nothing but the star studded sky overhead and the most awful sound wara had ever heard in her life metal punching against boulders as the bus rolled down the ravine .
screams echoed for a few seconds , and then another explosion battered the ground and all was deathly quiet .
wara began to shake .
she did n't know if she was dying , but this had to be what dying felt like .
there had been an accident , and ? where was noah ?
she had to see if she could get up , because noah had been right beside her , and he had to be right beside her still .
she tried to roll onto one side and was terrified to feel her head weighed about a hundred pounds .
she could barely move .
gasping for breath , wara forced her eyes to the drop off where the entire bus had disappeared .
to her left was an expanse of flat ground and spiky , clumped grass .
she struggled to turn her head to the right and laid her cheek against the cold gravel .
shadowy trees bent over the ravine , dipping low in the wind towards death below .
there was no one there .
wara sprawled on the edge of the cliff , eyes unseeing , until everything faded into darkness .
10 midnight blue alejo was stretched out on the floor of the tent on his stomach , trying to ignore stalin 's noisy snoring , eyes boring into the darkness and having absolutely no success at sleep .
the sat phone 's glowing display said it was nearly midnight , and the clearing that held their tents buzzed with cicadas and singing frogs and the forest 's pulsating hum .
a snap cracked above the quiet chorus , and alejo jerked his head up .
he recognized the raucous voices that floated into the clearing as belonging to the paraguayans and bolted to his feet .
he unlatched the opening to the tent and jogged across the darkened clearing towards the group who was just exiting the forest .
gabriel and some of the guys had made the hike down towards the spot where the bus should have gone over , anxious to see the results of the hastily planned operation .
it was too early for any news on the radio they had stashed with the supplies the heavy tropical growth down the sides of the mountain was so thick that no one passing by would even notice the bus had crashed , unless the explosion had left a pile of debris next to the highway .
gabriel had n't wanted any tell tale signs left over that the accident had n't really been accidental , and so had moved in to check the scene .
hey . ''
alejo made out gabriel 's pale face at the front of the line .
he was relived to see that his friend seemed pleased .
two questions is he dead , and does it look like an accident ? ''
99.9 probability , and yes , check , '' gabriel said merrily .
some of the others , william and marco , drew up next to gabriel , laughing too loudly , and snickering something to the guys behind them .
alejo finally made out the dark forms of christian , daniel , and osmar strolling casually out of the forest , hauling something between them .
something that had the shape of a human .
frowning sharply , alejo opened his mouth just as they dropped their burden to the dewy grass .
the person rolled over , moaning , and a head with long tresses turned to one side , revealing a white face streaked with blood .
alejo swore , immediately understanding what was going on .
he glared at all of them , including gabriel .
what were you thinking , bringing her here ?
she survived ? ''
yeah , she was on the bus , '' gabriel explained , happiness slightly subdued .
alejo noticed gabriel was carrying a purple backpack that obviously did n't belong to him , which he carelessly slung to the ground .
the girl moaned again and then her eyes slit open .
she thrashed one way and then the other , then flew up to a sitting position with a loud gasp and yelled , noah ! ''
noah ?
not a bolivian name .
she 's american , '' christian grinned , crooked teeth visible in the darkness .
passport in her bag . ''
alejo 's heart took a nose dive .
not one of salazar 's staff .
how many others ?
yeah , this is cool , huh ? ''
william continued the jittery prattling from alejo 's left .
we just thought you might want to share in the spoils of victory . ''
a few lewd comments rumbled from around the circle of men , and the american girl looked up sharply , terrified .
i w w was in a bus accident , '' she managed to say , in perfect spanish .
where am i ?
my friend was also on the bus did you see anyone else ? ''
she looked around frantically , trying to get up but obviously lightheaded .
you were n't in no bus accident , sweetheart , '' william drawled , reaching out to touch her dark hair .
your bus has been bombed ? ''
basta ! ''
alejo snapped , pushing william back hard .
enough . ''
bombed ? ''
the girl 's voice faltered .
alejo clenched his fist and fought the urge to knock william out .
they should have left any survivors on the road , so they could get to help .
now , instead , the girl was here , in the hands of some very unsafe men , himself included .
alejo 's plans had n't included this possibility .
how could anyone have survived the explosion ?
this girl did n't even seem to be burned .
stalin , long hair fuzzy around his very sleepy face , had by now joined the rest of the guys , who stood leering and making savage jokes .
he rubbed his eyes , then slowly grinned , offering a hand to help the girl up from the dirt .
come on , '' he said , helping her stand up by his side .
you guys should n't talk that way around a lady .
it 's not her fault she ended up here with all of us .
was n't supposed to happen . ''
oh , cut it out , stalin ! ''
christian grinned .
always such a gentleman .
she 's going to die anyway .
she 's a witness .
we thought we might as well bring her up to join us for the party in honor of our last night in coroico . ''
alejo 's mind seemed full of sludge .
there were n't supposed to be other people on the bus .
only salazar and his staff .
but you did n't know that for sure , did you ?
an accusing voice bit back at him .
there could have been children on that bus .
your own family could have been on there .
acid scalded alejo 's stomach and he took a deep breath .
the girl was on the point of tears , looking all around , trying to find something .
or someone .
alejo 's mind cleared and he decided what he was going to do .
marching over towards stalin , alejo motioned for him to move out of the way .
he looped an arm under the girl 's arms and dragged her smoothly to her feet , anchoring her back against his chest .
her weight sagged against him , so weak she could barely protest .
with his free hand , alejo forced the girl 's face to tip backwards so he could see her .
he could feel her lower jaw trembling in his palm , and large honey colored eyes with thick lashes met his , runny with tears .
alejo allowed himself to grin wolfishly .
then he glared at the guys who were still leering at their prisoner .
if anyone 's having any fun here tonight , it 's me .
sadly for all of you , i am in charge , and unless you want to have your salaries cut off by the khan himself i need all of you to get your rears back to your tents and sleep now .
we 'll start tomorrow at six .
last session before it 's over . ''
alejo felt the girl 's rapid breathing as he set his jaw and pulled her back tighter against his chest .
a chorus of complaints arose around him , which he ignored , turning towards gabriel with a wink .
good work everyone .
especially you , gabo . ''
gabriel was staring at alejo slack jawed as the rest of the guys gave up and whirled around to head towards their tents , muttering bitterly .
alejo motioned towards the purple backpack with his chin , and said , pass me that , will you , gabo ?
she and i are going to retire . ''
gabriel picked up the backpack and passed it over .
sorry , '' gabriel barely whispered as he leaned closer .
the other guys made me bring her .
but she would have had to go anyway .
she 's a witness . ''
yeah , i know .
everything 's going to work out . ''
alejo winked again and then said a little louder , you did it .
it worked . ''
thanks , '' gabriel said , glowing expression admitting he enjoyed the praise .
the girl began to squirm feebly against alejo .
what are you guys talking about ?
please , my friend might still be around and i have to go back ? ! ''
alejo plugged the girl 's mouth tightly with his hand and started towards his tent , dragging her in front of him and really hoping she would n't bite .
good night ! ''
he called to gabriel , then raised his voice as he approached the tent .
stalin !
get your butt out here with your sleeping bag .
bad news you 're going over to bunk with benjamin . ''
alejo ripped open the entrance to his large tent as he heard a low moan and awww , man !
alright . ''
grumbling , stalin gathered up his sleeping bag and pillow , then grabbed his bottle of antacids and the ridiculous stuffed snoopy that he insisted on bringing along on every trip .
alejo and the girl ducked inside his tent , which was lit by a camping lantern perched on a box they always left up here in the clearing .
still keeping her tightly in his grip , he cautiously slid his hand off her mouth , waiting for stalin to leave .
she sucked in air with a shudder , still sagging against alejo .
stalin passed by them on his way to the door .
he managed to free one hand from his mass of possessions and held it out to the surviving girl , rather sadly .
the guys say your passport says you 're a missionary , senorita .
i admire the way you missionaries share what you believe , far away from home . ''
stalin sighed dramatically and then ran a finger down the girl 's bloodied cheek , almost guiltily .
i do n't think you 'll be here much longer , but if anyone ever deserved to go through those heavenly gates , i think it would be you . ''
wait !
please ? ? ''
wara tried to reach after stalin as he darted out the door .
wait ! ''
she screamed again , and alejo clamped his hand over her mouth and growled lowly into her ear .
i 'm not going to hurt you , ok ?
stop yelling .
i need everyone else in their tents , where they wo n't be paying any attention to you . ''
he removed his hand from her mouth , then scooped her up and carried her , kicking and struggling , towards his rumpled sleeping bag .
you 've got to lay down ! ''
he insisted , inwardly kicking himself because he knew he was scaring her to death .
you were in an accident , ok ?
i 've got to see how badly you 're hurt .
you probably have a concussion , so you need to hold still . ''
he tried to keep his tone calm , because the usual way he barked out orders was probably not going to make this girl stop kicking .
she stiffened , then curled up on the sleeping bag , eyes squeezed shut .
in the light of the tent 's lamp , alejo took in his captive 's dusty jeans and sweater .
her dark hair , coated with a fine film of dust , was streaked with burgundy highlights and scattered around her shoulders .
with tan skin and light brown eyes , she did n't look like the typical north american girl .
alejo slid to the floor of the tent , one knee in the air , and let out a long sigh .
after deliberation he finally said , i 'm sorry for the crudeness outside , but i just wanted to get you in here to keep you away from the other guys .
ok ? ''
she slit her eyes open and searched his face , as if wanting to believe him , then gave up and curled back up in a ball .
he did a double take , noticing the girl had coffee colored , indian style tattoos on her palms .
henna .
what 's your name ? ''
wara , '' she muttered .
alejo was surprised to hear a bolivian name .
aymara language .
means star . ''
a gold star ring twinkled in the america girl 's nose .
why do you have a name from bolivia ? ''
he saw her swallow , hard .
my grandpa was a missionary , too .
in peru .
he married a quechua lady .
my parents let my grandma name me and she gave me a native name . ''
are you hurt ? ''
alejo felt himself staring .
the girl 's explanation of her name had suddenly brought it home she was very real , with a very real family somewhere who would miss her if alejo just killed her here in cold blood .
i have a medical kit , '' he said hoarsely .
cuts from broken glass ? ''
he sounded like an idiot .
his team needed him to kill this girl .
for the mission , he had to kill this girl .
and he was asking her if she needed band aids .
she glared at him then , jaw clenched with anger .
why do you care ? ''
she hissed .
my best friend was sitting right next to me , and if you did n't find him he could be dead .
what have you done ? ''
her tone rose frantically , and she curled up tighter on his sleeping bag .
alejo 's stomach burned at her words the others on the bus had almost certainly been taken out , but he could n't think about if salazar was gone or not until he heard the news that the body was found .
if they ever found a body .
alejo stared at this girl with the nose ring in his tent and saw a life he had just utterly devastated .
who else was on the bus ? ''
he asked against his better judgment .
his mouth was bone dry .
wara stared at the olive wall of the tent , obviously exhausted by her tirade .
i was ? with noah .
i did n't really pay attention .
there were a bunch of people in the back in suits and then some more people came on at the last minute . ''
alejo felt sick .
more people possibly unrelated to salazar .
and this girl in front of him .
wara .
uncontrollable nausea welled up in the pit of alejo 's stomach , and he knew there was no holding it in .
excuse me , '' he told the girl briefly , then ripped open the door to the tent and ran outside into a nearby cluster of banana plants .
he threw up until there was nothing left , then wiped his chin on his t shirt .
alejo sank down onto the ground with a clear view of his tent , still feeling sick and undone .
thankfully , it looked like everyone was in their tents snoring .
no one had seen him out here vomiting .
sucking in a slow breath , alejo tried to clear his mind and think .
if he helped the girl leave this place alive , he would have to leave the prism .
forever .
the guys could even be sent after him to kill him .
and then look for his family .
she would have to leave and never come back , always look over her shoulder .
and she would tell the authorities everything .
thank god the khan is gone .
lzaro had met him in the jungle near boris ' house tonight , and the two were driving to la paz in lzaro 's chartreuse brasilia .
ishmael was off to peru , then home to peshawar .
if ishmael were here , she 'd be dead already .
this time alejo felt he had no plan .
there was always a price to pay , he 'd learned , for doing what was right .
this time , the payment might have to be wara , the american missionary girl .
11 coffee she must be shock .
she had to be , because how else could she keep breathing , how else could she even think , when noah might be dead .
she was sprawled on a sleeping bag in some tent , captured by some dangerous guys who had probably made her bus crash and killed noah .
no !
she forced herself to erase that thought , scrub the eraser madly across the pencil lines on the page until it was gone altogether .
that could n't be right .
noah had to be just fine .
and it was good he was n't here , with these awful guys who had threatened wara outside .
she closed her eyes against the cool material of the sleeping bag , feeling sick and dizzy , but surprisingly , not in pain .
the thought crossed her mind that she could just get up and walk out of here , but she was sure they would catch her .
thoughts of noah in the bus at the bottom of the ravine paralyzed her , filling her body with lead .
the door of the tent rustled and the guy came back in , brooding and dangerous looking , with stormy hazel eyes .
she blinked , noticing he was n't wearing a t shirt anymore .
the guy looked about her age , maybe five ten , wearing khaki pants with pockets everywhere and leather sandals .
wara cringed , because she knew whoever these guys were , this one was the leader .
she 'd heard how he 'd ordered the guys around outside , sending them away mumbling with muted curses .
and now she was stuck here with him .
who in the world were these guys , and where was she ?
what happened ?
the haze in wara 's mind suddenly drifted away and she dragged herself to sitting .
the guy with coffee colored skin stalked over to a backpack in the corner , yanked out a gray t shirt and pulled it over his head .
he eyed her , then lowered himself to sitting at the other end of the sleeping bag .
my name is paulo , '' he said .
you should sleep . ''
there was no way she felt like going to sleep right now .
in this tent , with him .
someone said something about a bomb , '' she blurted out , needing to understand what kind of situation she was in here .
please at least tell me what 's going on . ''
paulo pressed his lips together and folded his arms across his chest , looking even more dangerous .
wara fought not to shrink back .
there was a bomb on the bus , '' he said finally .
it was in a package that we mailed freight to la paz .
you and noah had nothing to do with it .
you were an accident .
you were n't supposed to be there . ''
wara stared , dumbfounded .
but , why ?
why would you ? what ? ? ''
how could she say , why did you do this to us ?
paulo sighed .
there are a lot of things i ca n't explain to you .
you were n't supposed to be there , but you were .
and now you 're a witness . ''
icy fingers ran down wara 's arms .
so , what ?
they were just going to kill her ?
so you 're just planning on killing me too .
like right now ?
what are you waiting for ? ''
that came out sounding much too hysterical , but wara was really scared .
paulo 's eyebrows lowered even more and he uncrossed his legs and rested his forearms on raised knees .
i would have had the guys just leave you on the road , for someone to find and take to the hospital .
you never would have known a thing . ''
was it her imagination or did he actually wince hearing his own words ?
but you got brought here , '' he continued , and so now everything is more complicated .
if we let you go , that causes some major problems for us .
i 'm going to do the best i can to think up a solution for this , ok ?
but no promises . ''
she just then noticed that this guy called paulo had a water bottle in one hand , which he held out to her .
take these . ''
wara felt her eyes narrow in suspicion at the sight of two huge white pills on his palm .
it 's ibuprofen , '' he said , mouth twisting wryly .
she took the medicine silently , draining half a bottle of water .
she was so thirsty .
you 're sure you 're not bleeding ? ''
the question made her furious as she thought about noah where he was , if he was hurt right now .
bleeding .
she was just fine .
for now .
but when paulo pulled on a sweater and stretched himself out on the tent floor as if to sleep , claustrophobia set in .
i 'll have to wake you up every hour , '' he informed her .
since you could have a concussion .
and just so you know , we have motion detectors around our camp .
do n't try to escape .
we 'll catch you . ''
and paulo switched off the camping lamp .
it was pitch black in the tent , but she heard his even breathing , imagined him already sleeping , not affected at all by the way he had just destroyed her life .
sorrow gripped her chest like a vise and she let herself sink back into the sleeping bag .
she twisted the silver ring on her finger , feeling she was really in a dream .
in the real world , girls like her did n't survive bus crashes and get dragged off by a bunch of crazy guys as their prisoner .
in the real world , nice guys like noah did n't still love girls like her when they found out who they really were .
or give them silver rings .
noah .
oh noah .
how could you do that ?
she felt herself sinking into the ground , asleep in the tent somewhere under the stars , and in her dreams she was back in cochabamba in caf amara with noah .
it was three in the afternoon a few months ago , and the caf was nearly empty .
bittersweet chocolate and coffee from coroico scented the air , fairly dripping from the lime green silk plastered on the walls .
sweet corn mixed with white cheese and anise wafted from the kitchen , where dona filomena , the quechua lady who wore perpetual smile creases around her obsidian eyes , was boiling humintas in an enormous dented pot .
wara always imagined her in there , praying under her breath in tongues while she cooked or washed dishes , wide velvet pollera skirt swaying against the counter .
across from wara at a smooth wooden table , noah looked up from his toshiba tablet and said , so , how did it go on tuesday ?
did you get in trouble ? ''
huh ? ''
wara frowned at him , glancing up from the quechua book she d been reading while waiting for nazaret to show up .
the two girls were teaching a group of ladies to read in quechua at a church downtown , close to caf amara .
wara saw the twinkle in noah 's eye and suddenly got what he was talking about .
her face spread into a grin and she lay the book on the table , right over half of che guevara 's face that some local artist had painted in pastels .
she leaned back into the chair , raised an eyebrow at him and fingered the little gold star on the side of her nose .
about this ?
well , i do n't think they liked it , but i 've always been a little weird .
the bennesons are nice missionaries they did n't say anything .
plus , c'mon , my name means star .
in a bolivian language . ''
she peered at noah over the top of her maroon glasses , still grinning .
it 's you you should worry about .
just cause you did n't go to prayer meeting on tuesday does n't mean the rest of the team is n't gon na find out next time . ''
you got me . ''
noah ran a hand through his straggly sandy blond hair , pushing it aside to reveal a little silver hoop in his right ear .
they might be mad .
but i 'm not sure what the big deal is .
half the bolivian guys i 'm friends with here have an earring .
or a couple earrings . ''
he let the hair fall back over his ear and they both sat there , smiling , enjoying the moment of feeling like naughty missionaries .
well , at least one of them was n't really naughty .
noah was just a nice guy who wanted an earring .
clay dishes clinked from the kitchen and the aroma of lemon bubbles joined the coffee floating around them in the empty coffee shop .
footsteps scuffed on the pavement outside the open caf entrance and tiago slouched by under a black backpack covered in skull patches , wearing baggy black jeans with chains as usual .
noah and wara threw him a wave , and he grinned back , revealing a silver stud in his tongue wara did n't remember seeing before .
noah and i have a ways to go before we beat tiago in the piercing count , she thought , still smiling .
noah had stretched his legs out under the table and was back typing furiously at his little tablet .
he was squinting at the thing with extreme concentration , like a successful young stock broker in an armani suit instead of a missionary in cut off khaki shorts that really needed a haircut .
ok , so , look at this , '' he told wara , whirling the screen around so she could see .
remember last week when we saw all those muslim ladies passing out tracts in the plaza ? ''
sure she did .
wara had been with noah and nazaret , and they had come upon a big group of women in veils , right in the plaza colon .
most of them were bolivians who had converted to islam through the influence of the small but growing muslim community here in south america .
the ladies had been passing out tracts about islam , and the whole scene had been kind of surreal because back in the day , christians used to be the only group you would see doing things like that .
wara scooted her chair closer to noah and planted an elbow right in che guevara 's eye as she positioned herself to squint at his tiny screen .
so i was checking online a little about islam , '' noah said , cause i was kinda curious about how it 's growing so much around here .
look at this website i found.
wara 's eyes fell on something like a powerpoint presentation , all in spanish , with photos of dramatic mountain backdrops fading away around the large letters .
islam is the only hope for latin america , '' the title proclaimed .
the following screens explained how islam really is the heritage of spanish speaking peoples and they should return to it with all their hearts .
islam is the only light for latin america .
and islam gives us a common cause as brothers fight against injustice and western imperialism .
that 's a little bit freaky . ''
wara bit her lip while meeting noah 's eyes .
the part about fighting against western imperialism .
the way so many people feel about western imperialism in bolivia these days , that seems like a great reason for a lot of people to join islam.
noah cocked his head to one side and shrugged .
she could see the earring again , and he looked kind of cute with it .
the thought occurred to her that there must be a ton of bolivian girls in love with this guy , and it almost made her laugh .
did n't your parents want you to be a stock broker ?
or something , '' she asked him , totally changing the subject .
noah blinked , then settled back slowly into his chair .
yeah , something like that .
they made me study international business .
and they are not too happy with me right now , as i 'm sure i told you before .
maybe if i wore a tie to work it would help.
they both snorted , then burst into laughter , tears leaking out of their eyes as they looked at themselves .
noah in the cut off shorts and a wrinkled t shirt with giant hawaiian flower flip flops .
wara was wearing frayed jeans and yet another hippy shirt , this one a pumpkin orange with purple tie dyed rings and little brass bells hanging from the sleeves .
yeah , maybe noah should start wearing a pinstripe silk tie with that outfit , when he went to play with the kids at the martirs ' aids center and give them their medicine .
or when he sang here at the caf .
tobin and tobias could get one too .
they both laughed and swiped tears from their eyes until nazaret came to get wara for their class .
12 hazel a hard whisper jerked her awake , cutting violently through the darkness .
the memory of where she was crushed her .
she and noah were n't laughing in the caf together .
they had been in a bus accident , and she did n't know where noah was .
she was here in a tent somewhere , captured by some really dangerous guys .
wara froze on the sleeping bag , praying that if they thought she was still asleep , they 'd leave her alone .
the guy who 'd kidnapped her , paulo , had woken her up a few times in the night , just to make sure she was still alive .
before they killed her .
hey ! ''
the insistent whisper came again .
time for prayers , che . ''
wara cracked her eyes open in the direction of the tent door and saw a thin , pale face with a little goatee leaning inside , calling paulo .
nylon fabric rustled as paulo staggered up off the floor , shivered , then pulled a second black sweater over his head .
ya voy , '' he whispered , and the light skinned man disappeared , leaving the tent flap hanging open .
i 'm coming . ''
paulo turned his morbidly serious gaze on wara and she tensed and did her best to appear fast asleep .
she slit her eyes open as she heard him padding towards the door , saw that he was leaving in khaki cargo pants and bare feet .
after a minute , she slipped from the sleeping bag and crawled to the door of the tent , where a star studded sky and crescent moon gave the only light .
was it almost early morning ?
or what were these guys doing up in the middle of the night ?
time for prayers , '' the man who came to get paulo had said .
wara frowned and bit her lip .
around six men were gathered in the clearing , close enough that she could pick up what they said .
six more men suddenly appeared out of the darkened forest , dripping water from their hair and sleeves .
the other six , including paulo in his black sweater , walked together into the trees and disappeared .
wara settled in cross legged , watching the strange scene with bleary eyes .
when paulo 's group came back , also glistening with drops of water in the moonlight , all of the men lined up facing the same direction , now silent , without the excited chatter .
everyone bowed their heads , and then wara heard the soft rumble of them all chanting together allaahu akbar allaahu akbar ashhadu allah ilaaha illa lah ashhadu allah ilaaha illa lah ash hadu anna muhamadar rasuulullah ash hadu anna muhamadar rasuulullah wara 's pulse surged , knowing what she was listening to .
as a linguistics geek , she could definitely recognize arabic .
god is great .
i bear witness that there is none worthy of worship except god .
i bear witness that muhammad is the messenger of god .
they 're saying salaat , wara thought , absolutely stunned .
these guys are muslims .
the men , still standing , all hooked their hands behind their ears , turning their palms forward , and repeated , allah akbar '' in a flat monotone .
crossing one hand on top of the other in front of their bellies , they prayed more in arabic , though wara only caught a little .
the main gist seemed to be glory and praise to allah , and at the end she heard something about satan .
she then recognized the opening lines of the first surah or chapter of the quran .
all of the men outside bowed in unison , backs straight , gaze lowered .
wara shivered , hearing again , allah akbar ! ''
and realizing that most of the praying men wore long knives hanging from their belts in leather sheathes .
her attention span suddenly fizzled and she weakly crawled back to the sleeping bag , not quite sure what this new revelation meant for her .
she was being held captive by a group of muslims .
who had put a bomb on her bus .
for the first time she wondered where she was .
under the white star light outside the tent , wara had made out the shadowy bulk of mountain peaks .
the men must have carried her , unconscious , from the road after the accident .
they could n't have carried her far , could they ?
we could be up on one of the peaks above coroico .
the perfect hiding spot for terrorists , apparently .
who would ever guess that islamic terrorists would be lurking around coroico , adventure tourism capital ?
coroico , with its stunning scenery , picturesque small town charm , thick with plantings of coffee beans and oranges ?
feeling rather sick , wara uncapped the bottle of luke warm water paulo had given her last night and drained the rest .
she really needed to use the bathroom , but was n't about to ask .
yet .
right now she really needed a distraction , something to keep from thinking about muslim terrorists outside her tent and noah possibly being dead .
wara dropped the empty plastic bottle onto the sleeping bag and let her eyes wander around the tent .
the olive green tent was big enough for paulo to stand in at the center , just barely .
six people could possibly sleep in the thing side to side , but right now the tent only held the one sleeping bag , a rust colored hiking backpack , the lantern , and leather sandals .
and a fat golden book .
swallowing hard , wara reached towards it , thinking maybe she could work on deciphering some of the arabic lettering in this quran to keep herself from crying .
she flipped through the gold leaf pages of the book , then frowned at the page and blinked .
because the book was n't a quran at all it was a bible .
the scrolling letters shimmered in front of her , and wara closed the book to see the cover , unable to believe what was in front of her eyes .
this guy , paulo , had a bible here in his tent ?
the same paulo who was holding her captive and had tried to kill her and noah on the bus ?
something fluttered out of the arabic bible pages , swishing to the nylon tent floor .
it was a dated looking five by seven photograph of a happy family seated at a restaurant .
wara immediately recognized the bright colors and elephant logo of dumbo ice cream parlor in cochabamba .
the entire family in the picture was gathered around a square table with a canary yellow tablecloth , eating sundaes in tall , frosty glasses .
footsteps padded outside and wara jumped as paulo ducked in the tent .
he saw her sitting there , then paused .
droplets of water still clung to his temples and curly black hair .
how are you feeling ? ''
he finally said .
what ? ''
wara blinked at him .
how was she feeling ?
was she really supposed to be feeling anything other than awful ?
paulo 's eyes flitted between her face and the photo she was holding between two fingers .
it occurred to her that maybe snapping at him about how she was feeling would n't be the best way to keep this guy from killing her .
maybe she should talk to him , try to at least seem sympathetic .
it was n't very likely he would care , but worth a try .
dumbo , '' wara remarked , studying the picture again and trying to keep her voice from shaking .
i love this place .
i go here all the time in cochabamba .
who 's this in the picture ? ''
paulo lowered himself onto the floor next to her and held out one hand , palm up .
that 's my family , '' paulo said , obviously wanting the picture .
but wara kept staring at it , suddenly fascinated with how the family of an evil man who bombed buses would look .
they should be dysfunctional to the core , lounging together at a seedy bar while the kids ran wild in the streets .
what were they all doing eating ice cream at dumbo like decent people ?
two normal appearing adults who could be the parents were both looking off in another direction , as were a few of the children .
looks like you have a nice family , '' wara said , thinking that it was actually true .
closest to the camera sat a plump teenage girl with curly ringlets , a mickey mouse sweatshirt , and huge gold hoop earrings .
a skinny , good looking kid with dark hair had an arm around her , wearing a red soccer jersey , grinning at whoever was snapping the picture .
the shock started small , somewhere at the bottom of wara 's spine .
but by the time it raced up her back , she nearly choked , sucking in a horrified gasp .
please give me the picture , wara , '' paulo was saying with a tight smile , but wara had frozen , realizing that she knew the face of the girl with ringlets in the picture .
in fact , she knew that face so well she felt it was part of her own family .
paulo snatched the picture away and wara felt the tent wall shimmer around her in waves of hot and cold .
you 're alejandro martir ! ''
she croaked .
she stared at the face of the guy in front of her square , coffee colored jaw , pretty hazel eyes .
those were the eyes !
all seven of the martir kids had them , inherited from their mother , noly .
wara 's jaw dropped , then snapped back shut .
paulo was blinking at her , obviously shocked .
your sister , nazaret , '' she forced herself to say numbly , is my best friend in cochabamba . ''
paulo 's clear hazel eyes widened and then closed , very slowly .
his face confirmed everything .
13 olive green it ca n't be .
wara really could n't believe it , could n't wrap her mind around this being anything other than the worst nightmare ever .
you 're the brother ? ''
she forced herself to say the awful words out loud .
the one who 's been missing . ''
she could see it now , that faded photograph on nazaret 's white dresser , surrounded by threadbare teddy bears and little jeweled vials of nail polish .
it was him , that skinny kid from the missing brother picture .
he was the same guy sitting next to nazaret in the ice cream shop , arm slung around her shoulders .
and here with wara in this tent , holding her prisoner .
alejandro .
she could n't believe it .
one of the martirs was a criminal ?
or a muslim terrorist ?
paulo no , alejandro was looking at her with deliberation , as if deciding whether it was worth insisting on the previous lie about his identity .
then he erased his pained expression and scooted closer to her .
actually i go by alejo .
how is my sister ? ''
wara was furious , horrified .
why do n't you find out yourself ? ''
she snapped at him , voice bordering on hysterics .
your family has , like , adopted me in cochabamba .
they pray for you all the time .
they 've been wondering for years where you 've been ! ''
now wara was sputtering , and she tried to calm down .
her nerves were beyond frayed , and her hands trembled on her lap .
nazaret 's brother looked stricken , a marked change to his former aloofness .
nazaret has been doing really well , actually , '' wara glared at him .
until now , because she 's going to find out that two of her best friends are dead !
the good thing is , though , that it looks like she 'll never find out that her brother killed them .
so i 'm sure that someday , she 'll go back to being 'fine ' ! ''
tears filled wara 's eyes , and she felt furious for crying in front of this man .
but she was also afraid .
nazaret 's brother or not , this guy had kidnapped her and bombed the bus .
he had n't contacted his family in all these years .
the fact that wara knew the martirs was n't going to keep alejandro from killing her so she would n't give away information about whatever he and his fellow terrorists were doing .
it was n't the first time she 'd let that word float through her mind .
wara swiped at the tears with her sleeve and tried to control herself .
are you a terrorist ? ''
she asked warily , fixing her runny eyes on nazaret 's brother .
alejandro actually had the gall to draw back in surprise , screwing up his face as if offended by her insinuation .
what ?
no ! ''
he insisted , waving his hand at her .
we are not terrorists , ok ? ''
it could have been wara 's overactive imagination , but alejandro did not appear completely convinced of his own words .
brief memories crossed wara 's brain of various news articles she 'd read online recently , accusations from the united states that bolivia was harboring fundamental muslims and allowing them to use their country as a base for radical islam 's cause .
in fact , one of bolivia 's former presidents had foreseen something similar when he commented , bolivia is going to be the next afghanistan . ''
she remembered the web page noah had found that day in the coffee shop , the one about islam being the only hope for latin america .
i 'm not sure i believe you , alejandro , '' she said .
alejandro watched her guardedly .
actually i go by alejo .
i really hate alejandro .
that would be what my father called me . ''
what could alejandro martir possibly have against his father ?
pablo martir was a good man , a far cry from what his son had apparently become .
this was a nightmare .
wara 's eyes ran over alejo 's face again nazaret 's father 's jaw .
his mother 's eyes .
it was awful .
being kidnapped and nearly killed by someone bearing the image of her bolivian parents '' was really freaking wara out .
she could n't handle it .
wara crumpled down into the sleeping bag and pulled the top over her head .
she squeezed her eyes shut , even after she heard alejo leave the tent , close the flap behind him .
alejo martir left her alone for a long time , just stopping back once to remind her that the tent was surrounded by motion detectors so she 'd better be sure not to escape .
he asked if she needed the bathroom or food , but she did n't even acknowledge him , still curled up under the sleeping bag .
alejo and the other guys were close by in the clearing , having some kind of meetings .
probably terrorist stuff .
maybe about noon he came back and caught her staring blankly at the cover of the fat golden bible brought you some granola bars , '' he said grimly .
and some more water .
but before you eat , there 's a stream close by in the forest .
i thought maybe you 'd want to go down there ... '' he squatted and picked up a bag from behind his backpack in the corner , which he held out towards wara .
she blinked , realizing it was her purple backpack .
how did that get here ?
i do n't remember . ''
alejo shrugged , one foot tapping on the floor , probably anxious to get back to whatever he was doing outside .
i 'm going to have gabriel and stalin take you down to the creek , '' he informed her .
noting a look of protest about to spread across her face , alejo raised one hand and said , most of the guys have already gone back home .
the ones that are left i trust .
they 're going to take you there and bring you right back .
ok ? ''
fine . ''
wara shrugged helplessly .
what choice did she have ?
she was his prisoner , right ?
thanks for the food , '' she said in a small voice , glad right now for any small kindness .
alejo nodded curtly and eyed her again before turning to stride out of the tent .
she heard him giving instructions to someone outside , and then the tent flap pulled aside and two faces poked in the pale goatee who woke alejo for prayers this morning and the pudgy guy who last night had told her that when she kicked the bucket she deserved to go to heaven .
ready ? ''
they asked politely .
wara stood up warily , racking her brain to try to remember if these two had been among those making nasty comments upon her arrival last night .
as far as she could recall , the stringy haired guy had only been standing and staring and she remembered him giving her a hand up and telling the guys to stop with the lewd jokes .
and the skinny guy now it was all coming back .
he had leaned close when alejo had his arm practically around her neck and whispered , i did n't want to bring her , but the guys said i had to . ''
so far so good .
ok , sure . ''
wara shrugged and tried to pick up her rather heavy backpack .
the bulky guy stepped forward hesitantly and held out one arm for her bag .
she handed it to him without a word and followed the two of them outside .
after a few steps in blinding sunlight , they entered the shade of the trees .
a chorus of cicadas and tropical birds was rising above the canopy .
wara jumped as a reedy voice said , so , i 'm stalin .
in coroico i 'm a professor .
i teach kids morality and ethics class . ''
uh , hi . ''
morality and ethics class ?
is he serious ?
my name is gabriel shara . ''
wara noticed that the taller , thin guy had a baby face with kind looking greenish eyes .
i 'm wara cadogan , '' she said , wondering if they really cared .
yeah , we know . ''
gabriel was starting to cheer up .
we read your passport .
you 've been here in bolivia for a really long time . ''
six years , '' stalin remarked , stepping carefully over a very tall rock , slippery with the morning dew .
wara felt the dampness soak through her canvas shoes and into her ankle socks , and decided that whatever time left to her in life she would live barefoot .
just a second , '' she said , stopping in the middle of the forest and beginning to peel off her soaked shoes and socks .
my shoes are all wet . ''
but we 're almost to the stream ! ''
stalin insisted , seemingly shocked by the sight of a gringa stripping off her footwear in the middle of the cloud forest .
you 're going to get cut on the rocks ! ''
well apparently i might die today anyway , so i might as well enjoy my last day , right ?
am i supposed to be afraid of dying with a few cuts on my feet ? ''
she wadded the damp socks up into her shoes and began walking again , picking her way over broken sticks and squishy moss .
stalin and gabriel walked alongside her in morose silence , until the gurgling of water told wara that stalin had been right .
a shallow , rushing stream cut its way through a dirt patch of the forest just ahead , tripping over small stones in its path .
stalin set her backpack down on a flat rock by the stream , and then motioned to gabriel .
ok , so we 're going to leave you here for a while , but do n't do anything foolish because we 'll be close by . ''
stalin cocked his head to one side and then said , we wo n't be peeking , though .
i mean , we 'll be far enough away ? ''
gabriel looked mortified and glared at stalin , who grinned lopsidedly and let gabriel lead him away .
gabriel turned back towards her with a cool grin .
do n't even think about disappearing , ok ?
i 've got equipment up here you 've never even heard of , and i 'll find you like that . ''
he snapped his long fingers , and then whirled back to continue off to some point in the banana plants where they would be waiting .
shivering in the coolness of the mountain air , wara quickly unzipped her backpack and dug out a change of clothes .
she pulled on black pants and a green tank top , then knelt next to the stream to try to wash the dried blood from her cheek and hair .
still there ? ''
a masculine voice hollered from somewhere in the bushes .
yes ! ''
she answered , biting her lip .
just a second , ok ? ''
just making sure ! ''
a different voice called back .
the frigid water burned her scalp and she realized she probably did have some cuts .
she remembered the side of her head smacking against something in the bus as she saw the wall of silver fire go spinning over her like a ceiling .
i must have gotten thrown out the window , she realized with a shiver .
but i hardly have any cuts .
maybe the explosion blew the glass away first .
nausea filled her as she imagined noah , arm ripped away from her shoulder as he was thrown further into the fiery bus by the explosion , while she was tossed out the window in the opposite direction , to safety .
i know women take a long time , but we really have to get back . ''
wara thought the too cheerful voice was skinny gabriel 's .
she slogged across the spiky grass on her bare feet and scooped up her backpack .
ok , you can take me back now , '' she called sadly .
in a way , she wished they would just tie her up out here instead of bringing her back to the clearing .
here , sapphire blue butterflies were flitting across the racing surface of the stream , licking up crystal drops , dipping their spindly black legs into the water .
stalin and gabriel crunched their way out of the foliage , staring at her standing there in bare feet .
obviously deciding not to mention the feet again , stalin wordlessly took her backpack and motioned for her to follow them back to the camp .
sunshine hit her damp hair with a welcome warmth as she stepped out of the shade and into the clearing .
the sight of all the olive green tents quickly brought the chill back .
alejo was sitting on a rock , talking to a short guy with wire rim glasses and a little brown goatee .
take care of things for me a while , will you benjamin ? ''
alejo told him and wara was not happy with the way alejo 's eyes ran over her as stalin and gabriel passed her over to him .
alejo 's lips curved into a wry smile and he grabbed her arm , half dragging her with him towards his tent .
she really had to focus on keeping her feet under her as alejo marched her along , then pushed her through the door of the tent .
inside , her dropped her arm and latched the tent door shut .
bad news , '' alejo frowned at her , then immediately began to pace .
wara blinked , noticing the bead of sweat that had popped out on his forehead just then .
what was going on ?
she started to ask , but alejo held up a hand to cut her off .
let me think , '' he ordered crossly .
wara bit her lip and sank down onto the sleeping back , hooking her hands around her raised knees .
a few loud shouts rang out in the clearing , and alejo muttered a very bad word .
animated conversation drew nearer outside the tent .
you did n't have to come back here , sir , '' someone said cheerfully .
we have everything under control no worries . ''
a pause while a lower voice rumbled something .
then , yeah , she 's in there .
alejo 's been keeping her .
of course we understand that .
he just wanted to wait until the paraguayans were gone , not make a show of it . ''
alejo swore , glanced at the tightly closed tent door , and then swore again .
he pressed one hand against his temple , and then fixed his eyes on wara , taking a deep breath .
i hope you can forgive me for this , '' he muttered , then swung down to yank her to her feet , pulling her against his chest .
panicked , wara tried to pull away , but alejo 's fingers dug into both of her wrists .
when he let go , she could n't bring her arms around from behind her back .
something thin and biting dug into her flesh , pricking her hands .
alejo had bound her wrists together .
she barely had time to register this fact before alejo threw an arm around her and dragged her tighter against his chest .
her rib cage slammed into his and he hooked a leg around the back of hers , preventing her escape .
before she knew it , he was kissing her , the scarce stubble of his chin like sandpaper against her cheek .
appalled , wara struggled against him , trying to free one of her legs to kick him hard .
it was no use she was caught like a worm on a hook .
heavy footsteps sounded outside , and sunlight flooded the tent as someone flapped open the door .
alejo took his time finishing the kiss , then finally let wara draw back and turn towards the door .
her vision swam as she took in the familiar figures of stalin and gabriel , along with two new faces watching them from just inside the tent .
a shower of sparks shot through her skull as alejo grabbed her hair and tilted her face upward towards his .
his eyes were glinting with a thousand specks of green fire , and she felt her face burn , absolutely humiliated .
alejo winked at her , then turned towards the guys at the door .
what is it ? ''
he grinned .
we 're a little busy right now .
i told the guys i 'd be right back , ishmael . ''
wara shivered at his mocking tone .
alejo released her hair and she turned to see the newcomers , face still flaming .
standing next to stalin stood a tanned figure , jaw hanging open as he gaped at her and alejo .
it was lzaro .
14 beet red sharp purple stars exploeded in front of wara 's eyes .
this could not be happening .
lzaro ? ''
she struggled to push away from alejo , all the while unable to take her gaze off lzaro in the doorway .
he was wearing the same kind of irish cap he had always worn , along with a casual sweater , jeans , and hiking boots .
his eyes were hidden behind the same sunglasses he had been wearing in the truck in coroico .
wara gasped loudly .
lzaro ripped the sunglasses from his eyes and gaped at alejo .
wara ? ''
lzaro said dumbly , gaze dashing back and forth between wara and alejo .
you 're the one they found ? ? ''
wara 's eyes were torn away from lzaro as alejo 's hand forced her head against his chest .
she tried to pull away angrily , then froze , weak kneed , as she heard him unsheathe the hunting knife from his belt and saw its blade out of the corner of her eye .
remembering her position as captive , wara let herself hang limply against alejo as one of his hands continued digging into her cheek .
with the other , he pulled at the plastic ties around her wrists and cut her hands free .
through his t shirt , wara could hear the steady , slow tempo of alejo 's heart , totally composed , completely devoid of the fear that caused her own heart to race .
she hated him for it .
by now , the bridge of lzaro 's nose had turned beet red , and his fists clenched at his sides .
that 's my girlfriend , you idiot ! ''
he growled .
alejo started with surprise and a moment of silence rang over the tent .
your ex girlfriend , is n't it ? ''
he finally said coolly .
this is the missionary you used to go out with ?
well you should thank me then for doing you a favor .
her boyfriend is dead , along with salazar .
do n't get your knickers all up in a knot .
c'mon , let 's take this outside ! ''
alejo 's fingers dug into her arm as he dragged her through the tent door .
the others drew back to make room .
lzaro , apparently not satisfied in the least with alejo 's calm explanation , swore foully and then rushed him , slamming into him from behind .
wara felt the momentum of the push twisting her off her feet .
an arm caught her around the shoulders , yanking her back up to standing as alejo released her .
she saw alejo land on both palms just before hitting the ground and release a lightening backwards kick that caught lzaro under the chin , spinning him around with a grunt .
wara struggled to look behind her and realized that the man now holding her was benjamin , the one with the wire rim glasses .
one forearm clamped tightly around her neck , threatening to cut off her airway if she moved .
wara was trapped , watching as lzaro and alejo flew at each other again in some kind of martial arts stance , each taking a few violent punches .
like alejo had said earlier , most of the guys who had been up here on the mountain were already gone .
an older guy wara had n't seen before had appeared , however , watching the scene with displeasure , arms crossed in front of his chest .
the man was actually much older than the others , wearing olive green pants with multiple pockets , a t shirt , and one of those khaki vests full of zippers and flaps favored by foreign journalists in a war zone .
a neatly trimmed beard peppered with gray gave the impression that he could be a kindly grandfather , except for how his eyebrows were now knit into the perfect v , scowling first at her , then at the fight .
confused and numb by all the blows and shouts , wara 's mind finally registered that alejo had launched himself from the ground with a somersault and brutally knocked lzaro to the dirt with a kick to the ribs .
spinning in a half circle , lzaro fell with a thud , swore at the attempt to rise , then gave up .
enough ? ''
alejo panted , sweat running down his back .
i like you , che , and i really hope that 's enough .
i did n't know , i promise you .
just for you , i wo n't touch her again . ''
yes , i think fun time is over . ''
the authoritative voice of the grandfatherly newcomer carried over the group .
asalaam alaikum , ishmael . ''
wara saw alejo grin at the older man .
then nazaret 's brother began speaking a different language , clipped , as if reporting facts .
lzaro was painfully picking himself up off the ground , a bloody gash running above his right eyebrow .
he walked gingerly towards the rest of the group , keeping a wary distance from alejo , listening .
from time to time he threw a guarded glance at wara .
soon after their little conference , the older guy turned his beady gaze back on wara .
she was still pinned against benjamin , eyes barely slit open , for the first time ever not trying to figure out what language everyone was speaking .
sweat dripped down her back and she was terrified .
i am so sorry , '' the older guy was saying with a smile in smooth spanish , that this has been allowed to drag on this long .
i 'm sure you are a nice girl.
the smile died away , and he unsheathed a long , curved hunting knife with a smooth whine , turning his gaze towards lzaro .
my son , it 's time for us to move on , '' he explained patiently to lzaro in accented spanish .
apart from being a witness to the bus accident , she can identify you . ''
a trickle of blood from the wound alejo left was slowly winding down lzaro 's face like a shiny maroon caterpillar .
he gaped dumbly at the knife that the man now extended towards him lzaro , '' wara stammered , heart slamming against benjamin 's arm .
the fact that lzaro , too , was here , part of this , was absolutely surreal .
how could you do this ?
noah was your friend , was n't he ?
how could you want to kill him ?
he never did anything to you !
lzaro just stared at her , possibly realizing for the first time that noah too had been on the bus .
he glanced at the old guy , nervously , and his hand closest to the offered knife twitched .
wara took in that gabriel , standing next to lzaro , appeared ready to vomit , one hand clutching his throat , staring at wara 's neck .
feeling faint , wara realized that they were going to slit her throat .
lzaro stumbled a slight step back , and at that moment wara saw the flash of the knife against the sun as the old guy moved straight towards her , impatient .
she felt benjamin 's grip on her tighten as he said , i 've got her , mr .
khan . ''
and then , from the side , alejo was moving forward , marching towards her with a face full of calm fury .
the fist that connected with her face shot white hot rays of pain through her head , splattering her vision with colored lights .
benjamin must have released her just as alejo 's punch slammed into her nose .
wara twisted around backwards on lifeless knees , then crumpled to the ground with a jolt of fire .
evil lights flashed in front of her eyes , and she wanted to pass out , die , anything .
no such luck .
wara shrieked in agony as someone grabbed her hair and pulled her to her feet , wrapping an arm around her shoulders to secure her against them because it was obvious that there was no way she could stand .
oh god , please help !
get me through this part ?
stand up ! ''
a voice grated into her ear , and wara 's heart sank as she realized it was alejo she heard herself breathing loudly , vision swimming with the pain .
alejo yanked her hair back and wara saw the silver of a razor sharp knife blade , only an inch away from her exposed neck .
we have extenuating circumstances here , sir , '' she heard alejo say calmly .
gabriel should n't have to watch this .
i 'll take her into the forest . ''
he dragged her in front of him so her bare feet skimmed the grass , then barked into her ear , walk ! ''
to the other men he called , we 'll meet in town ! ''
alejo pushed her ahead of him into the cover of the mossy forest , dragging wara along as he stomped through the grass .
her vision had cleared enough to make out the trees , but everything still shimmered and she was sure if alejo were n't holding her up she would have just dropped to the ground .
she absently realized the salty stuff dripping across her lips was blood and that her nose was probably broken .
may nazaret never hear about this , about what her brother has done .
they pushed quite a ways into the forest , ducking under hanging tree fronds and circling giant banana plants .
then wara 's foot hooked on a big root and she went hurdling towards the forest floor .
the vision of the flashing knife waving near her neck told her alejo was going down with her .
wara 's breath pumped out of her chest with a sharp gasp as his body slammed on top of hers , pushing her face into the raspy grass .
a rough hand clamped across her mouth , sending rays of pains surging though her skull .
do n't scream , '' he whispered lowly in her ear .
whatever you do , do n't scream .
i 'm not going to hurt you . ''
breathing heavily , alejo rolled off of wara and sat listlessly on the ground by her side , one arm propped up on his knee .
in a daze , wara rolled over onto her back painfully , unable to stop shaking .
her eyes were beginning to swell .
she gingerly wiped her sleeve across her face in an attempt to clear away some of the blood that was still flowing from her nose and stifled a sob at how much it hurt .
god , what is happening ?
you 're going to kill me later , then ? ''
even though alejo had told her to be quiet , she had to know .
he had been staring off into the jungle , but now his gaze jerked sharply back to her .
wara winced and raised her arm , cringing .
he did n't hit her again , and she opened her eyes in time to see alejo hurl the knife off into the forest as if it were a deadly scorpion .
he turned away from her and threw up onto the prickly tropical grass , gasped for breath , and then threw up again .
finally he lifted his head , white as a sheet , and wiped his mouth shakily on his sleeve .
i 'm so sorry , '' he choked .
i told you i was n't going to hurt you .
oh god , i 'm so sorry .
nothing 's going to happen to you now , ok .
i 'm gon na take you where it 's safe . ''
wara started to feel everything around her fading away .
maybe she was dying .
the giant pine tree branches overhead were starting to sway as if a lazy breeze ran through them .
no , that was ridiculous .
she could n't be dying from a broken nose .
but she felt so dizzy , and simply could n't move .
what was nazaret 's brother saying ?
that he was sorry he had broken her nose ?
why ?
he had n't looked sorry a few minutes ago when he did it .
and what was with the puking ?
everything is spinning around so fast .
wara vaguely realized that she had been scooped up and was moving through the trees .
alejo must be carrying her .
she slumped against his shoulder , and the sounds of crickets singing among the banana trees and grass crunching underfoot slowly faded away .
15 pale she felt herself gently swaying back and forth , face hugging something scratchy and warm .
for several minutes she drifted blissfully between semi awake and half asleep , trying to pry her eyes open but at the same time being quite sure she did not want to wake up .
she remembered passing out , and that alejo had hit her , and yeah , the pain was definitely still there .
wara gasped and jerked wide awake , rolling into a sitting position and looking over her shoulder .
he was still here , sitting with arms propped on his knees .
wara grabbed her head as black and silver flashed across her eyes in a violent parade .
the sunlight was blinding .
they were in the back of a truck , surrounded by high wooden slats .
alejo was staring off to one side , watching the road through gaps between the rough boards .
he turned towards her when he heard her groan , but wara could only close her eyes and take deep breaths , trying to keep the world from spinning around backwards .
freakily , alejo 's expression had completely changed from the way he had looked at her with remorse in the jungle for those few minutes after he had thrown the knife away into the wild .
now , his face had settled into such a serious mask that wara was glad she was too dizzy to look at him .
those intense hazel eyes were just plain scary .
she moaned again and weakly flopped back into a fetal position in the straw of the floor of the truck , her back to nazaret 's brother .
he had given her a concussion she was sure of it .
against her closed eyes , she saw again the scene in the clearing of the camp , alejo 's face as he swung at her in rage .
the rest of the blank faces as they simply stared .
why did n't you kill me ? ''
wara barely recognized the croaking voice that came out of her own mouth .
she cleared her throat slowly and curled up tighter in her corner of the truck bed , too weak to do anything else but wait for his answer .
after a long pause , alejo answered her , voice detached but non threatening .
i never wanted to kill you .
i just could n't let you know that , or you would have given away the escape plan . ''
what ? ''
wara squeaked .
my friends are very smart .
they would have been able to tell if you trusted me .
i never meant to have to hit you '' his voice faltered for a second there '' but it was the only way to get you out of there with what i had to work with .
i was in charge of the rest there at the camp .
but that man who showed up with lzaro is ishmael khan , our handler .
he 's our boss , and as soon as he arrived , i knew that you were as good as dead . ''
wara frowned as alejo went on .
ishmael was already coming at you with the knife , because lzaro would n't do it .
i had to stop him cold in his tracks , and hitting you was the only way i could think of .
two more seconds and he would have cut your throat .
gabriel was robbed and had his throat slit in pakistan a month ago , and lzaro was involved with you , so i had a good excuse to take you out of their sight and eliminate you .
they could n't have handled it .
and because you were ? incapacitated , benjamin and the khan assumed they did n't need to come with me to keep you from escaping .
thank god they did n't . ''
there was a long pause as wara tried to focus on the details of what alejo had just said .
he had to break her nose to save her life ?
you broke my nose ! ''
she blurted out , then gasped at the nausea waves produced by the effort of shouting .
i wo n't be able to tell if your nose if broken until the swelling goes down , '' alejo said , still maddeningly calm .
if it 's broken , i can set it .
i 've set a lot of broken noses , including mine . ''
there was no way she was letting alejo touch her swollen nose .
she dared to raise a hand to her face and realized that there was n't nearly as much dried blood as she remembered .
had alejo cleaned blood from her face while she was sleeping ?
the thought made her frown .
she just lay there , slumped into the straw , not knowing what exactly she was allowed to ask in the presence of a terrorist who was also the brother of her best friend .
how did she address the man who had broken her nose and then saved her life ?
wara found she did n't care anymore everything had become much too confusing .
so , who are you ? ''
she finally asked , slowly working her way over onto her back .
a painful blush spread across her face as the memory of alejo kissing her in the tent played across her mind .
she supposed it was part of his lovely escape plan , but she still did n't like thinking about it at all .
you have a handler ?
are you , like , a hit man ? ''
sitting cross legged next to her , alejo snorted , a frustrated , annoyed kind of sound .
no , i 'm not a 'hit man ' !
i work for a muslim organization that works for justice by fighting against the bad guys , wara . ''
but you have a bible .
a really big one .
do you even read that thing ? ''
of course he did n't read it .
he was a muslim .
and a murderer .
we fight against the bad guys , wara , alejo had said .
well , wara was pretty sure nazaret 's brother was confused about the definition of bad guy . ''
alejo sighed and pressed his lips together .
i 'm not a muslim anymore , '' he finally said .
wara glanced at him , blinking away the confusion .
alejo looked away at the wooden truck slats .
i was , but now i 've decided to follow jesus '' wara did n't think she could have been more shocked if he had proposed marriage right then and there .
this guy was a nutcase !
how can you follow jesus and ? go around killing people ? ''
she demanded .
she tried to scoff , but the effort just hurt her nose .
she settled for scowling at him .
alejo turned towards her sharply .
we do n't just go around killing people .
i have high level training from hezbollah 's militant wing , and i take advantage of that to get rid of the guys who hurt the poor and oppressed .
i do things that i know are wrong , but it 's worse , wara , to just sit around and do nothing while you watch innocent people suffer .
we 're not terrorists . ''
wara was n't convinced .
so you follow jesus by killing people . ''
alejo cut her off .
a couple weeks ago , my good friend gabriel was robbed and they slit his throat .
a few seconds later , a pakistani man came along and found him lying there .
he could have just left him alone it was really inconvenient for him to help .
but he did help him and he saved gabriel 's life , like in the story jesus told about the samaritan . ''
alejo played absently with the fringe on a canvas bag of oranges that was part of the truck 's cargo .
what if that pakistani guy had come along while gabriel was still being attacked ?
should he , or the good samaritan , have just politely stepped aside and waited until the thieves finished , before stepping up to see if the victim was still alive and they could help ?
or if they were stronger than the thieves and had a gun , should they have saved the man from being robbed and nearly killed in the first place ? ''
wara frowned , remembering gabriel with the friendly green eyes who had taken her down to the creek and how he had one hand to his throat as he watched them about to kill wara .
jesus said to love your enemies , '' she finally managed .
no matter how much using violence seemed to be justified , the results could never be worth it , could they ?
what about noah ?
i know . ''
alejo was still frowning darkly .
but he also said he came to set the captives free , and to show love to everyone .
as horrible as it is , sometimes those two commands just ca n't both happen at the same time . ''
alejo was morosely silent for a moment , and wara squinted up into the streaked sky .
they were driving under the leafy branches of clustered palm trees now , and the sunlight flashed onto her face , then disappeared behind the temporary shade of their latticed leaves .
he could have killed me , but instead he saved my life , wara realized .
she would like to think alejo was just insane , but some of what he said made sense .
she just lay there , squinting against the bright sky , trying not to think about how much everything hurt .
what about you ? ''
she finally asked to break the unpleasant silence .
you were in charge .
are n't you going to get in big trouble for this ? ''
she tried to meet his eyes , hoping he would see that she was grateful , despite the possible broken nose , several unwanted kisses , and the fact that he was the one who had nearly killed her on the bus in the first place .
but wara found alejo staring off at the pile of blue canvas orange sacks , looking much more serious than she had hoped .
actually we are in big trouble , '' he answered a little mechanically , eyes not meeting hers .
i 'm going to keep you safe , i swear it .
but first there 's something i have to do .
i think that ? i 'm pretty sure that ?
alejo stopped and swallowed hard .
in punishment for me betraying the group , i think they 're going to try to kill my family . ''
wara suddenly could n't breathe .
what ? ''
she croaked .
a wave of ice engulfed her .
his family .
the martirs .
i know they 're going to look for them . ''
alejo shook his head bitterly .
i was a leader i know everything .
there 's no way the khan is n't going to be furious .
he saw me as family and i betrayed him . ''
nazaret ? ''
wara whispered .
a shiver ran from her toes to her scalp .
they would hurt them ?
what are we going to do ? ''
if we can warn them first , they can run . ''
alejo 's voice was flat and a sheen of sweat painted his forehead .
wara was horrified .
but ? how much time do we have ? ''
when you heard us talking in pashto , ishmael was telling us to kill you right away and throw your body in the waterfall that 's about a half hour walk into the forest .
the body would have drifted down into the main river , which runs through the canyon near the bus ? accident .
i told them i 'd meet them down in coroico .
i say we have two more hours before they start to wonder , three before they realize what i 've done . ''
alejo rested his arms on his knees and hid his face .
oh god , '' wara heard him whisper raggedly , shoulders slumped with despair .
what have i done ? ''
16 canary yellow bajamos ! ''
alejo 's no nonsense voice boomed as he banged on the side of the truck through the slats a few minutes later .
whoever was driving must have heard his announcement that the people in the back wanted off , because the truck 's gears shifted down and the heavy vehicle scraped to a stop .
wara 's head hurt even more now , thanks to the shocking news about the martirs .
the rusty back gate of the truck clanged open revealing a young guy with a che guevara baseball hat and greasy black ponytail waiting for them to get out .
alejo hauled wara to her feet , and for a moment everything shimmered violet and green .
her legs were n't feeling so weak anymore , and she took a few shaky steps across the filthy truck bed , avoiding the giant sacks stuffed full of tropical fruit .
alejo passed the driver a red hundred boliviano note , then lowered wara onto the ground and jumped out behind her .
wara heard the truck grind into gear and chug away behind them .
i can walk now . ''
wara realized alejo 's arm was around her waist .
she shrugged away from him and began to pick her way carefully through the tangled mass of plants .
ya , '' alejo said .
the spanish equivalent of fine . ''
wara glanced at him and saw he was still sweating bullets , the weight of the world on his shoulders .
could it really be possible that his family could die because he had become part of this group ?
she wrinkled her nose painfully .
where are we going now ? ''
she whispered , not sure if there might be bad guys lurking about in the wild .
alejo seemed startled by her sudden question , but he did n't slow his stride .
there 's an airplane here .
we can take it to get to cochabamba and warn my family . ''
wara struggled not to stumble at the reminder that someone could hurt the martirs .
is there a pilot ? ''
i can fly it . ''
alejo 's answer was clipped but not impatient .
wara frowned and shifted her gaze over to him , not sure what to think .
alejo apparently read her thoughts because his mouth twisted wryly and he said , i fly the plane for work , wara .
this is the only airplane that brings tourists in and out of coroico , so we make good money .
it 's not because i 'm plotting to fly the thing into a building like 9 11 . ''
before she could answer him , they came into a little clearing holding a squatty adobe house half shaded by a thick mass of arching orange trees .
a battered blue motorcycle leaned against a sleek banana plant , and a gaggle of scraggly chickens pecked lazily in the powdery dirt .
there appeared to be a larger clearing beyond the house , and sure enough , a straw colored airplane was sheltered under a structure made of corrugated tin sheets .
and in the distance , a spacious , cleared area with dirt tracks down the center a runway .
alejo hollered out a greeting in spanish and a stout , balding guy wearing a stained white undershirt swaggered out from behind a sheet fluttering over the house 's open door .
alejo ! ''
the man 's ample face instantly spread into a grin .
he covered the distance between himself and his visitors quickly , clasping alejo 's hand firmly in his own beefy one .
there was a tattoo of a mermaid with red scales and a set of panpipes on his upper arm .
wara knew she should be wondering who this guy was , but thinking about the martirs made her feel dizzy .
her face still hurt .
a lot .
che , how 's it goin ' ? ''
the guy with the mermaid tattoo slapped alejo on the shoulder .
you gon na take helda up ? ''
he turned to greet the girl at alejo 's side but stopped short of the kiss on the cheek when he saw the condition of wara 's face .
the balding man took her hand carefully instead and held it , frowning back at alejo in concern .
che , what have you been doing to this woman ?
i hope it was n't you , eh ? ''
he was trying to joke , but the alarm in the guy 's eyes said he suspected it was indeed alejo who was responsible for the condition of wara 's nose .
she suddenly felt ashamed , standing there with bare , filthy feet and dried blood caked on her tank top .
alejo laid a hand on her shoulder , and she cringed , stepping away .
boris , i 'm taking her to the doctor . ''
alejo saw her glaring at him and smiled tightly .
since i 'm going into cochabamba anyway on business . ''
well , good . ''
the fat , mermaid tattoo guy named boris nodded , shooting another worried glance at wara .
do n't forget .
you 'll bring me back helda tomorrow ?
maybe bring some tourists back ? ''
sure , if we 're lucky .
but now i 've got ta fly like a bat outta hell .
do you think we could get her up in five minutes ? ''
why not ? ''
boris shrugged and his belly jiggled under the white undershirt .
on the way back we can have a beer .
i wo n't tell the khan .
just sign the log please , and i 'll get her ready . ''
boris winked and pulled a tattered notebook sporting the fading image of the incredible hulk out of his back pocket .
alejo pulled the lid off a ballpoint pen with his teeth , scribbled something in the notebook , and flipped the pen and notebook back towards boris .
the portly airplane owner whipped around with amazing agility and started towards the airplane , shouting instructions into a small black radio he had somehow produced and now held up to his mouth .
boris ! ''
alejo yelled after him .
boris turned around distractedly as he dictated what appeared to be flight coordinates to someone across the radio waves .
let your daughter lend some clothes to this poor girl . ''
wara wanted to sink into the ground as alejo motioned towards her with a sheepish grin .
c'mon !
i 'll bring her something new back from the market in cochabamba when i come . ''
boris must have nodded his approval , because wara heard alejo holler gracias '' , then motioned her forward towards the ramshackle house .
he yanked the blue checked sheet draped over the doorway aside so wara could enter the house .
she clenched her fists as she squeezed past alejo 's sweat soaked t shirt .
the room just inside the door was cramped , graced with a burnt orange couch with torn upholstery and a few armchairs .
an antique wooden shelf holding a murky fish tank and an army of porcelain clowns and teddy bears was stuffed in a corner .
with the low glass coffee table in the middle of the room there was barely space to turn around .
a wicker ceiling fan swirled above , lop sided and losing the battle to cool the room from the tropical heat .
a chubby teenage girl with deep red lip liner and a black brittany spears tank top with rhinestones stuck her head out of the doorway of one of the back rooms .
hey , alexis , '' alejo greeted the girl .
what 's up ?
say , your dad said i could ask you a big favor .
my friend here would like to borrow some of your clothes .
i told your dad i 'd bring you something new back from the market in cochabamba . ''
alexis kissed alejo on the cheek but looked skeptical about his offer .
she raised one plucked eyebrow and took in wara 's bloody face and disgusting appearance .
my dad said that ? ''
wara squared her jaw , determined to get through this , to get to the martirs and make sure they were safe .
alejo tried his most convincing smile .
c'mon , i bet i 've got good taste . ''
fine , no problem , alejo . ''
alexis shook her head and rolled her eyes .
she took one last glance at wara but did n't seem to be concerned as she sauntered into the back room .
apparently boris ' little adobe house was the kind of place bloodied strangers could show up and no one would blink an eye .
wara was feeling weak again and wished she could sink down into the faded orange sofa .
a sudden thought halted her midstride towards the couch .
i know the numbers of all your family 's cell phones .
we can call them .
good old alexis must have a phone we can use , right ? ''
nope , '' alejo shook his head firmly .
i 'm not about to use the cell phones here could be tracked afterwards .
my sat phone stayed with stalin , since he had it on him when i went into the tent to ? talk with you right before the khan showed up . ''
what about internet ? ''
wara was feeling desperate , like she was trying to run through quicksand , not able to move a single step forward .
there had to be some way to warn nazaret 's family , before alejo and wara could make it to cochabamba in the plane outside .
yeah , there 's internet . ''
well , i can catch your sister on facebook .
she 's online like all the time .
she 's got to be online right now . ''
my sister still uses that ?
are n't there social networking pages that are a little more ? modern ? ''
yeah , well .
some of us still use it . ''
alejo led wara into the first side room , where , sure enough , there was a very sleek , cobalt colored computer sitting atop a battered bamboo desk .
do n't we have to ask ? ''
wara looked up at him .
alejo was opening a little black fridge in the corner of the office .
he pulled out a bottle of very cold water , twisted off the lid and handed it to wara .
here .
drink this .
nope , me and my friends kind of half live here . ''
alejo was already flipping on switches and in a few seconds wara was sitting before a picture of alexis in a canary yellow bikini , along with several swarthy teenage boys , next to one of the cascading waterfalls just outside of coroico .
nice .
she gulped half the water bottle , then signed into facebook while alejo drank the rest .
yes !
i knew it ! ''
she hissed triumphantly .
the little green icon blinked back at her , telling her nazaret was signed in , as usual .
that girl was always on facebook .
alexis came in , winked at alejo and tried to strike a sultry pose .
bring me a pair of really tight jeans , ok alejo ?
you 'd better take a good look so you can remember my size . ''
she unceremoniously dumped a pile of clothes on the desk , posed again , then scoffed and stalked away when alejo did n't even look at her .
wara was typing furiously .
nazaret , are you there ? ?
please , let me know if you are there , quickly .
it 's urgente ! ''
ten eternal seconds passed , and then the reply message blinked , wara ? ? ?
are you ok ? ''
by now , nazaret must have heard about the accident .
eduardo and the australians must have told the martirs that she and noah had been on the bus .
but there was no time for beating around the bush .
i 'm ok. you could never guess who is here with me right now .
i am here with your brother .
alejandro . ''
more time clicked by , and wara could n't even begin to imagine the look on her friend 's face .
finally a single word came back from nazaret .
what ? ? ? ? ? ''
there 's no time to explain it to you right now , but i 'm here with your brother , and he was involved with some people ? .anyway , he knows you are in trouble .
some really bad people are going to come looking for your family to kill you .
you have to run .
now ! ''
tell them to go to the hostel salta , '' alejo whispered , leaning over wara and gripping the edge of the desk .
alejo says to go to the hostel salta now ! ''
wara 's fingers flew across the keys .
do they remember where it is ? ''
you know where it is , right ? ''
apparently the martir family had experience with the place , maybe knew the owners .
a pause .
yes , i remember . ''
wara could almost see tears slipping down nazaret 's cheeks .
they need to register as the rojas family , '' alejo told her .
well meet them there . ''
as wara typed , she heard the airplane being fired up outside and wished she was already in it , soaring towards cochabamba .
they have to turn their cell phones off and leave them behind or they will be tracked , '' alejo whispered lowly , and she passed along the instructions .
tell my brother i love him . ''
wara glanced down and saw that nazaret had left one final message , and that she was gone .
for once , her status was listed as offline .
it looked very final .
alejo was staring at what his sister had typed .
he slid his hands over to the keyboard and nudged wara 's out of the way .
i 'm erasing this conversation , '' he said .
they 're going to come here when they realize i 'm gone . ''
one last click of the keyboard , and then alejo scooped up the clothes alexis had left and laid them on wara 's lap .
put these on in here , '' he instructed .
i 'm going to help boris ready the plane . ''
wordlessly , wara gripped the pile of clothes and forced herself to rise from the computer chair as alejo closed the door behind him .
the windows in the small room were covered by rickety bamboo blinds .
alexis had been so kind as to donate a pair of gray jogging pants that had sparkly pink lips on the rear and said diva .
the shirt was orange with a koala , or wombat , or some such thing cheerily stuffing a stalk of bamboo into its mouth .
wara managed to put everything on and slipped into a pair of white rubber flip flops with large silver jewels lining the straps .
this is a lot of bling .
underneath the jewels , her smudged toes wiggled back at her , adorned with a myriad of henna flowers .
wara clamped one hand on the bamboo desk unsteadily as her memory flashed back to the pickup truck and noah sitting at her side , just about to see her henna tattoos when lzaro began to speak .
go outside , she ordered herself , gritting her teeth .
get on the plane and find the martirs .
just find them .
17 brick red the white toyota corolla taxi squeezed into a spot along the curb , directly in front of an elderly man with his wooden cart full of sea green chinese fingernail clippers and long tubes of colgate toothpaste .
alejo paid the taxi driver in a hurry , then nearly took out the corner of the elderly man 's decrepit cart as he yanked open the back door on wara 's side and tried to help her out .
she stared at his outstretched hand as if it were a poisonous millipede and he staggered back , nearly tripping on the cart 's metal wheel .
wara frowned at him and eased herself out of the taxi , obviously in pain and very angry .
they both headed for the steps of the hostal salta .
the place was just as alejo remembered it , back when his dad 's friend from church used to run it .
three unlit stars sagged on a brick red wall splattered with graffiti .
the hostel was six skinny floors , straight up , smack dab in the center of the market .
it was now sundown , and despite the chill , alejo felt feverish .
if something happened to his family , he would never forgive himself .
inside , wara veered off towards the sofas in the waiting area , just like he 'd instructed her in the taxi .
they needed to not call attention to themselves , and walking into a hotel with a swollen , purple nose was a good way to make someone remember you .
alejo signed the check in papers and got the key , making animated conversation about the latest soccer game with the kid at the counter , all the while dying inside .
got the keys , honey , '' he called to wara , throwing her one of his best grins .
ready to go upstairs ? ''
the guy behind the counter must think he was the cheapest guy in the world , bringing his date to a dive like this .
but cheap hostels did n't ask for copies of your id .
alejo slung an arm around wara 's shoulder and pulled her into his side as they made for the stairs , hoping it looked romantic instead of like he was trying to hide her .
wara panted right behind him up three flights of stairs .
he had gotten them the room right next to pablo martir .
alias pablo rojas .
his family had made it here .
and he was going to have to face them .
alejo stopped in front of room 303 and rapped on the door , blinking away a bead of sweat that ran through his lashes and into his eye .
a hurried grinding noise sounded inside as the door quivered .
si ? ''
wara whispered loudly through the door , shoulders sagging with relief .
it 's me .
we 're here . ''
the door opened with a soft whoosh , revealing an entire clan of people , gathered behind alejo 's father in a nervous cluster .
alejo blinked .
and stared .
pablo martir looked the same , except for the sprinkling of silver in his jet black hair .
he was a little shorter than alejo , but the square jaw that the pastor clenched as he stared at alejo was the same one alejo saw in the mirror every day .
hello , '' he stammered .
then , c'mon , we should get inside '' .
head spinning , he guided wara by the arm through the doorway as his parents and all the children scuttled out of his way .
alejo closed the door with one foot and slid the deadbolt into place .
his mother stood there , older but still beautiful .
had he really not seen his mother in so many years ?
noly martir was staring at him as if she were seeing a ghost .
i i 'm glad that you 're here , '' he said hoarsely .
next to him , wara sunk onto one of the room 's many beds .
the room was large and lined with about eight single beds , all with pink pinstriped sheets .
alejo paced to each of the windows , making sure they were secured and not easy to open .
anyone following you on your way here ? ''
he asked them .
any strange cars outside your house ? ''
everyone shook their heads no , staring at him with wide hazel eyes that mirrored his own .
everyone left behind their cell phones ? ''
alejo was relieved that they all nodded .
he had a couple of implanted tracking devices , in case anyone needed to track him when he was on assignment .
they would n't be a problem now , though , because the things had to be activated at close range by whoever was going to track him .
the teenager who must be his little brother nathaniel watched him with something like awe , never leaving his mother 's side .
when alejo left cochabamba to live with his uncle , nathaniel had been two and toddling around the patio in soiled pampers .
nareth , nadia , nestor , and naveli huddled on one of the beds , not recognizing him even a bit .
they had all been little babies when he stopped by his parents ' house for the only time after running away .
he only went home to get some of his clothes and cds .
just a quick stop before he headed back to santa cruz and his uncle on the bus .
no time to spend with a preachy old preacher and a mother who constantly prodded about how he was doing and a house full of raucous little martirs who kept multiplying like rabbits .
naveli had been born several years after he had last seen his family .
now he picked her out right away , a little seven year old hanging on one of pastor martir 's legs , whimpering .
alejo sank down onto one of the unmade beds and planted his feet firmly on the floor , determined not to be sick .
there are definitely some things you need to know , '' he swallowed hard , now that i 've gotten you in this mess , but first ? ''
he stood up stiffly from the bed and fought the urge to pace .
we need to get wara to a doctor , '' pastor martir interrupted with concern , staring at wara and surely thinking about the fact that she had been in a near fatal bus accident .
alejo held up one hand .
i know that she 's in some pain , but she 'll be fine .
i asked the guy downstairs to have a taxi sent over with some anti inflammatories from the pharmacy .
the nose is probably broken , but i wo n't be able to tell for forty eight hours if it needs to be set .
the swelling has to go down first . ''
noly and nazaret audibly gasped as they swung around toward wara , noticing for the first time her puffy , bruised face .
crusty patches of blood had dried around her violet and yellow nose .
alejo felt low as a dog , knowing everyone was looking at wara and assuming this had happened to her in the bus accident .
the accident that he had caused .
before punching a girl in the face and knocking her to the ground , then dragging her away with a knife to the throat .
oh dear lord !
the accident ! ''
noly gasped , catching her hand over her mouth .
i still ca n't believe ? we heard on the news that everyone was dead , even though sar search and rescue has just begun to bring up the bodies .
and then you chatted with nazaret ? ''
noly 's pale face flashed back towards alejo .
and she said you were with alejandro .
wara ? ''
nazaret 's mother hesitated , then tentatively asked , noah was with you .
do you know ? ? ''
i do n't know ? what happened to noah , '' wara said , expression clearly saying she wished alejo would slither away like the snake that he was .
i was thrown out of the bus .
he was sitting right by me , but i could n't find him . ''
her lip shook , and she visibly forced herself not to cry .
these guys , '' she jerked her chin over alejo 's way in the bolivian style of pointing , say that no one else but me survived .
i passed out , and then was picked up , by the killers . ''
nazaret 's blond ringlets appeared next to her mother , eyes full of tears .
alejo remembered her , the sister closest to him in age .
and suddenly he knew he 'd missed her .
wara ? ''
she said , they say on the news it will take at least another day to continue the search for survivors and ? bring up the rest of the bodies . ''
her voice choked and she grabbed onto her mother for support .
the bus fell more than a thousand feet down the ravine , and then it it exploded .
i just ca n't believe you 're alive ! ''
nazaret was sobbing now , and alejo felt as if he were in another world , a twilight zone that could not be reality .
never in his worst nightmares had he imagined being reunited with his family like this .
wara , '' noly martir 's tear stained voice continued , a man from noah 's mission told me today that noah 's parents will be in la paz by tomorrow night .
your parents were still waiting to see what happens .
the sar search and rescue have n't ? found any one who survived the crash .
everyone from the bus is presumed dead . ''
alejo felt his fists clench hard at his sides , the words hitting him like a load of bricks .
franco salazar must be dead .
and wara and noah paid the price for the man 's sins .
everyone was crying , well at least it seemed like it .
his mother , his sister nazaret , several of the little kids whose faces he did n't even recognize .
alejo 's chest began to constrict , and he tried in vain to be rational .
he had thought this out .
salazar needed to die , whatever the cost .
of course it was possible there could be other casualties .
i am a murderer .
alejo . ''
the broken voice of his father sliced through his heart .
alejo turned towards him as if in daze .
pablo martir 's eyes were red rimmed as alejo managed to meet them , steeling himself to do the right thing and give whatever it took of himself to make this right , as much as possible .
i , alejandro benjamin martir , am a murderer , and it 's time to pay .
son , '' pastor martir began , wara said that she was found by the killers . ''
alejo 's father placed one protective hand on his wife 's shoulder , moving in front of her and nathaniel as he spoke .
and that she was with you . ''
the unspoken question hung in the air , surrounded by children 's shuddering sobs .
as if in slow motion , one by one , the other members of the martir family moved up next to their father , warily , staring at him with those hazel eyes .
the little one , naveli , sniffed loudly and cried , noah ! ''
i 'll tell you everything , '' alejo promised hoarsely .
but not in front of the children .
18 dark alejo led his parents up to the roof , followed by nazareth and nathaniel .
his heart ached as he left wara with the youngest children in the room and pushed open a door that led to the flat concrete roof of the hostal salta .
a high brick wall held together with globs of roughly formed gray mortar provided privacy .
a few threadbare , freshly washed sheets flapped in the breeze in one corner of the roof , drying in the fading sunshine .
alejo trudged to the center of the roof , where rusty metal chairs circled a wobbly table .
he absently stared at the surrounding buildings , praying yes , praying that there would n't be any problems with security at their present location for at least the next few hours , until he could explain to his parents how it came to be that he had set assassins on the trail of his baby sisters .
a squeaking of metal told him that his family had taken seats in the awkward silence , unsure of what to do .
my parents may have done many things that were wrong , but they and the kids did n't deserve this .
the silence suffocated , and alejo needed to escape it .
i work with a group that partners with hezbollah , '' he finally said , avoiding nazaret 's teary gaze .
with a start , he wondered if he should use the past tense .
everything is happening so fast ?
until this afternoon . ''
for the first time in a very long while , alejo found himself struggling for words .
how could he explain who he was , when his family had not known him for fourteen years ?
and who are you now ?
alejo thought .
do you even know ?
nazaret was staring at him , white face stricken with shock .
you 're a muslim ?
hezbollah ?
they 're terrorists ! ''
no , hezbollah has renounced terrorism , '' alejo insisted .
you 're thinking of hamas .
or al qaeda . ''
alejo paused , trying to come up with words .
i was a muslim .
i ? am not anymore . ''
he could n't even bring himself to mention the name of jesus in this discussion as his reason for leaving islam .
the weight of what he had done felt as if it could never be erased .
alejo cleared his face of emotion and tried to state the facts clearly .
i was the leader of a team in an organization that kills evil men .
my team put explosives on the bus that left coroico on sunday night .
it was supposed to contain only the targets , but noah and wara apparently got on the bus at the last minute .
the men from my team brought wara to me , after they found her by the road , alive .
they would have killed her too , and i left with her to avoid that .
so i suppose my membership in the organization has been canceled . ''
alejo 's mouth flattened into a wry , grim line .
wara 's bus ! ''
pablo martir 's face flooded red .
his knuckles tightened violently around the edge of his chair .
you ? you did that ? ''
nazaret squeaked .
everyone else seemed too horrified to even speak .
not only that , '' alejo 's voice was strained , but when i left the organization , i put your lives in danger .
they do n't like traitors and as soon as they found out i left with wara , i 'm sure they started to look for you .
i was a leader , and the punishment for leaving is death for my family . ''
now alejo leaned back into his chair , hating the looks on their faces , hating that he was the one who had caused all this .
wara said they have prayed for me for years , that i would be safe and following jesus , he remembered bitterly .
and now i show up , a muslim , a criminal , who has ruined their lives .
oh god , '' noly martir whispered , covering her mouth with her hand .
for a second no one could speak .
then alejo 's mother stood up unevenly from the iron chair , a look of intense sadness quivering on her face .
alejo , those are your little brothers and sisters below us in that room .
are they safe sleeping here , with you ?
what is going to happen to them ?
oh god , '' she repeated , her voice breaking .
you never even knew them , and already you have made their lives forfeit . ''
noah ! ''
nazaret cried , breaking into sobs as well , dropping down onto her knees on the concrete floor .
and wara ? why ?
what have you done to them ?
alejo , do n't you know how much i loved you ?
how much i missed you ? ''
wara told me , '' alejo muttered , struggling to meet his sister 's weepy eyes .
he turned towards his mother and held out a hand towards her , then dropped it to his side .
i will do all that i can to keep them safe while they 're sleeping , '' he promised gravely .
alejo felt that until now his father had been ominously silent .
dropping down on a stack of concrete blocks facing his family , alejo watched him out of the corner of his eye , struggling against his will with all the ancient bitterness that welled up in the presence of pablo martir .
was the pastor shocked that his son had been living as a muslim ?
well , i was happy as a muslim , dad .
did you really , honestly expect me to want to be a christian ?
did you ever realize what you had done , when you heard about ruben ?
apparently , if ruben had affected his family at all , they had recovered just fine .
word was that pablo martir was still a pastor .
not much appeared to have changed .
alejo 's father leaned back in his chair with a firm , metallic clink as the legs shifted against the uneven concrete .
alejo jerked his head around to look at him , eyes blank , ready to be verbally decimated .
he was almost looking forward to it .
amor , '' pablo began , in a deep , only slightly unsteady voice directed at his wife .
please go back downstairs with the kids and stay with wara .
i need to talk with our son ? alone . ''
fine , alejo steeled himself .
man to man .
alejo was glad his father appeared sufficiently cool headed and rational , even after alejo 's horrifying revelation .
he needed to talk with his father about a plan to save their lives .
it was a heavy first conversation , all in all , after fourteen years .
noly and nazaret still could n't speak , and the two of them made their way unsteadily towards the black door that led back to their room .
nathaniel followed them slowly , eyes dark , glancing back at his long lost brother with a mixture of morbid curiosity and fear .
he gently closed the rusting door with a slight clang behind him .
alejo opened his mouth to speak as pablo abruptly pushed one of the wrought iron chairs across the concrete with his foot , causing a high pitched scraping sound .
please sit down . ''
alejo 's father motioned towards the chair , directly across the table from himself , with his chin .
alejo sat down in the chair , hiding his uneasiness .
are your brothers , sisters , and your mother safe downstairs ? ''
pablo asked first .
his voice was even and low , but alejo noticed a bead of sweat riding his father 's forehead .
for now .
i have to get all of you out of here as soon as possible .
it 's ? not safe for you here anymore , and you 'll all have to ? leave the country . ''
alejo winced as he heard his own words , suddenly realizing how crazy they sounded .
i have n't seen them in years , and now i show up and tell them they have to leave the only country they 've ever known .
now .
you need to explain this to me again , '' pablo sighed seriously .
you were involved with a muslim organization that you have become uninvolved with , and because of that they are after us , to kill us ? ''
alejo nodded , miserable .
yep , they as in some pretty well trained , smart guys .
if i do n't get you into hiding , they will find you . ''
now a little of his father 's composure crumpled and he swallowed hard before getting out the next question .
you ? killed noah ?
the bus ? you ?
did that ? ''
had he not believed it before ?
bile rushed into alejo 's stomach and he curled his fingers around the chair 's sharp armrests with an iron grip to avoid once again emptying his stomach .
he had never seen the man , but noah had been one of his sister 's best friends .
in the taxi , wara had told him how noah had been in charge of getting his sister home safely every night they worked until late at a caf in downtown cochabamba .
franco salazar was on the bus , heading back to la paz , '' alejo managed .
he was an evil man , and the bomb was meant for him . ''
alejo 's father 's face looked very pained , and he searched his son 's eyes carefully .
alejo felt sick , not at all ready to get into a discussion of the past with his father .
his father 's face , however , was unreadable .
did you only come back to warn us because we are your family ? ''
alejo nearly shot out of his chair .
no !
i told you , i 'm not a muslim anymore , and i have left the organization !
i knew i needed to leave for a while , when i realized that i believe what jesus taught , not islam .
but i found out that if i left , they would come after you ! ''
rambling and stammering , alejo 's statement about believing jesus obviously came as another shock to his father .
surely the last thing that makes any sense right now is to hear that his son has just left islam , after committing murder , and is now declaring himself to be a follower of jesus .
alejo groaned and leaned back heavily in his chair .
i did n't want anything to happen to you , '' he ground out flatly , but they were about to slit wara 's throat .
i had to leave with her . ''
thank god you did ? ''
pablo muttered , appearing to be still trying to take it all in .
so , you kill people as part of your job , but you decided to help wara .
and now you left that job ? ''
dad . ''
alejo cut him off , his whole body tense .
i ca n't talk about all this now .
i just ca n't .
i feel bad it 's been a long time , and i just show up and ruin your lives .
for that , you do n't know how sorry i am .
now , unfortunately , we 've got to talk about getting you all out of here .
i have more than enough money , and i 'll do whatever it takes . ''
pablo seemed hurt by alejo 's tone , and he stared at his son , maybe trying to find the skinny fourteen year old boy who had left his house in anger .
alejo shifted his eyes uncomfortably , refused to let his gaze ride to the floor .
son , '' pastor martir finally said , voice breaking a little , where have you been ?
your mother thought you must be dead .
or working for drug dealers , in prison ? ''
well , '' alejo clipped , stomach tight , as you can see , everything is so much better than you imagined . ''
he immediately regretted his sarcastic words as his father looked away .
dad , '' alejo said with a sigh , there 's nothing i can do to make this reunion a happy one for you . ''
his father looked dazed , then asked , so this was all about franco salazar ? ''
alejo felt his heart leap into his chest , and the acid that rushed into his stomach told him that there was no way he could talk about this with his father , not now .
i told you , dad , i just ca n't talk about it , '' he insisted , eyes dark .
pablo martir 's face looked so pained that alejo tried to soften his tone , ignoring the nausea .
maybe someday we can talk .
but not today .
right now the only thing that is important is getting you all out of here , so you can live . ''
the strong shoulders of alejo 's father finally slanted as he crumpled back into the chair , desolate .
alejo 's footsteps dragged as he trudged down the narrow stairs , leaving his father alone on the hostel roof .
seeing his parents again still had the sheen of unreality .
a dark , nightmare ish unreality , in light of the situation he had put his entire family in .
his mother was right .
he was still confused about half of the kids downstairs , which face went with what name .
he did n't know them .
but they were his brothers and sisters , for goodness sake !
alejo loosed a heavy sigh and waited outside the hostel room door , fighting the urge to find cigarettes and do some serious smoking .
he 'd quit years ago , after finding that wheezing while trying to outrun danger and bullets could be pretty inconvenient .
and now , suddenly , that life was over .
he , alejo martir , was no longer employed by the prism , and he might never see his team , who were like brothers , again .
and if he did ever see their faces , it could be behind the muzzle of a gun .
alejo blinked , startled , as the wooden door jerked open and he found himself facing nazaret .
you should n't have opened to me , '' he scolded softly .
ask first .
you did n't know who i was . ''
nazaret 's round face waned exhausted .
she met his eyes sadly , shattering him with a million memories of blanket forts under the dining room table and licking popsicles on the front porch .
i still do n't know who you are , '' she said , then left him standing at the door and returned to flop onto an unmade bed .
alejo carefully closed the door then turned to his youngest siblings , trying a reassuring smile .
your dad will be down in a minute , '' he told them .
they 're probably worried i left him dead up there on the roof .
what kind of brother am i ?
alejo forced his gaze from the wide eyed little martirs to his mother and wara , sitting wearily together on one of the beds he was glad to see pills on the bedside table the stuff he had ordered must have arrived from the pharmacy .
wara and noly had obviously been in deep discussion just before alejo interrupted them and his heart sunk three notches lower , easily imagining that little chat .
there would be the part about how alejo had smacked her in the face , then nearly slit her throat .
and before that , how he had handcuffed her and kissed her .
alejo felt his face heat .
no matter how highly he thought of himself and his problem solving abilities , there really was no fixing this situation , was there ?
alejo suddenly felt very tired and sank down onto a bed across from wara .
we should call your family , '' he said .
wara speared him with reddened eyes .
i already did .
from the street .
i called the bennesons , who work with my mission , too . ''
alejo nodded once , admiring how she seemed to make good decisions even in stressful situations .
they must want you to come home , right away . ''
noly martir lowered her brows at her son , expression a mixture of love and annoyance .
of course they do , alejandro .
their daughter almost died .
but she wo n't go . ''
alejo eyed wara , whose jaw was set firmly .
she wo n't go until she finds out if noah is still alive . ''
alejo remained silent , removing his gaze from his mother and sister and folding his arms across his chest .
his mother and sister must think him a psychopath .
and maybe i am .
keys jingled in the lock and alejo tensed , then relaxed as pablo martir entered the room .
it was time to leave this room , and quickly .
he and wara would be just on the other side of the thin wall , definitely within his ear shot in case of danger .
basically ignoring his wayward oldest son , pastor martir walked among his younger children , forcing a smile and patting them each on the head .
noly pulled little naveli onto her lap and kissed her .
i 've been talking with your brother , '' pablo addressed the whole family , and he has some very good ideas of how to help us , which we 'll talk about tomorrow .
now it 's time for all of us to sleep , but first we 're going to pray .
no matter what happens , god is always with us , and he keeps us all in the palm of his hand . ''
strangling on the need to escape this little moment of martir family prayer , alejo quickly stood up and moved towards wara .
excuse me .
i 'll get out of your way so you can take care of your family . ''
you sound so cold .
as if they were n't your family too .
but it had been so long , an entire lifetime .
naveli peeped at alejo from long lashed hazel eyes , lips purple around a giant lollipop .
alejo stared at her , then tore his gaze away and motioned to wara .
i 'm sorry , but you 'd better come with me . ''
everyone started , and alejo faced his parents .
i registered us downstairs together .
besides , i told her i 'd take care of her .
i 'm not letting her out of my sight . ''
alejo was surprised when wara rolled out of bed without arguing and prepared to follow him .
the zombie like expression in her eyes , along with her lack of protest , actually worried him .
wara looked ready to collapse .
equally as worrying was the fact that no one in his family protested his orders , at least not with words .
after all , i suppose you do n't argue with a man who 's just confessed to being a killer , even if he is your own son .
wara stumbled next to him towards the door .
alejo left his family locked in the room , more disgusted with himself than he had been in a long , long time .
19 transparent the door slid open before wara and alejo with a mute whine .
alejo flipped on the light switch and wara pushed past him into the room , identical to the martirs ' except that it held only two single beds .
past the point of absolute exhaustion , wara stumbled over to one of the beds and kicked off her white flip flops .
the wool blanket covered worn , striped sheets , and she ripped back the covers and fell inside .
she forced her breathing to even , willing herself to sleep , just sleep .
she was lying here in a hostel room with the man who tried to kill her and noah .
only sleep would bring the blessed unconsciousness she craved .
but sleep would n't come .
her frayed mind whirled around a single thought , faster and faster , polishing it to a weighty obsession .
finally , she flipped herself over on the lumpy bed to face alejo , still visible in the dim light of the small bedside lamp .
he was hunched over on the edge of the other bed , wearing the same gray t shirt and cargo pants , head in his hands .
for some reason , the thought crossed wara 's mind that those were now his only clothes nazaret 's brother had literally left his old life with only the clothes on his back .
he frowning , wara realized that he could probably never go back and get any of his stuff from wherever he had lived , because now he was in big trouble .
because he had saved wara 's life .
why did you do it ? ''
she wondered out loud .
alejo twisted to face her , hazel eyes rimmed in red .
the bus ? ''
no i mean yes .
but first why did you leave your group ?
you believed so much in what you were doing you were willing to even kill . ''
the words tasted bitter , like copper .
why would you leave ? ''
alejo drew in a breath , and it was sharp , hurried .
he took his time , swinging his legs over to the other side of the bed so he could face her , eyes flickering back and forth .
the guy looked tortured .
he raised his eyes to hers , slowly closed then opened them .
it started because of jesus , '' he said .
i realized that i ca n't believe what i believe about him and be a muslim .
my group is made up of muslims .
but then there is ishmael , our boss . ''
he hesitated , eyes flickering again as if seeing some painful scene across the back of his eyelids .
wara saw the exact moment he decided to go ahead with whatever it was he was going to tell her .
ishmael and other powerful men do n't want the word to get out about what i saw in pakistan , '' he said .
on my last trip there , ishmael took me to the tribal area near afghanistan .
that 's a place ? ''
i know where that is . ''
ok. '' wara enjoyed the moment of showing him she was n't as dumb as he might think .
alejo nodded with respect and continued .
we were way out in the middle of nowhere , visiting a five house town near the fighting .
and huddled inside one of the buildings where fighters crash when they 're not out shooting rockets at each other , i found about one hundred bolivian teenagers , dressed like mujahedeen , waiting to go back to the skirmish . ''
wara frowned , confused .
what ? ? ''
that 's how i found out , wara , that ishmael 's foundation has been recruiting among the native peoples , especially in bolivia .
he explained to me that the recruiters visit small towns in the countryside and talk to the young guys .
they recruit them for islam , but in reality they exploit them , only telling them about an islam that they can join to fight together against a common cause western imperialism .
they tell these converts that they are getting an expense paid trip overseas to study for free .
but they end up in the tribal area , or god knows where else . ''
the missing ! ''
wara repeated the term the quechua women had used on that trip to the bible conference with noah .
in the countryside , a lot of women told me that their sons have disappeared . ''
alejo 's mouth pressed together in a firm line .
i do n't know how many bolivians are over in pakistan right now , or how many have already been killed .
their families will never know . ''
he shook his head and then sat up straighter .
anyway , believing what i do about jesus and finding that out meant it was just a matter of time til i left the prism .
when you ? when i saw you ? i had to leave right away . ''
alejo 's voice faltered , and he cleared his throat .
but ? ''
wara found she could n't say the thought that had just run through her head .
all she could come up with was , why did you have to kill us ? ''
do you really want to know ? ''
alejo was quieter than wara had expected .
it 's not going to make you feel any better , you know .
i ca n't fix it . ''
yes , i want to know .
how could you do this ? ''
she crossed her arms tighter across her chest and shivered .
alejo closed his eyes , then looked away .
the reason we targeted the bus you were on is because it was chartered by a guy named franco salazar .
salazar is ? was ?
alejo winced but kept going ? not only a government official for the state of cochabamba .
he was also a child molester , and ran the largest child pornography ring in bolivia and paraguay . ''
wara fought to keep her jaw from dropping and stared back at alejo .
that guy had been on her bus ?
he was going to leave for thailand , wara , today , from la paz .
did you know thailand is a major center for child prostitution ?
this is not the first time salazar has been to thailand . ''
alejo 's eyes radiated hurt and horror .
despite herself , wara felt her heart twist with disgust for franco salazar if all of this were really true .
why should i believe anything he says ?
the police would never touch him , '' alejo continued , because of bribes , high up friendships .
the man was protected from every angle you can imagine .
how many more children would have their lives ruined , while i sat , a 'good ' man , doing nothing ? ''
alejo raised his hands to make sarcastic quotation marks in the air around the word good '' , lips twisting cynically .
he paused , then asked distractedly did my parents ever tell you about ruben mamani ?
no , of course not . ''
alejo caught wara 's blank look and heaved a sigh .
they probably forgot .
anyway .
before franco salazar worked for the national government , he was the mayor of quillacollo . ''
a medium sized town on the outskirts of cochabamba .
and before my family lived in cochabamba , they lived in quillacollo , where my dad pastored a really big , popular church . ''
wara vaguely remembered hearing that years ago pablo martir had been senior pastor of a huge church in quillacollo , with its own radio station , seminary , and everything .
alejo was still telling his story .
my best friend ruben was a year younger than me , and he was from a poorer family , quechua .
he loved to come over to my house because we had cable and a big yard , and he lived in a little house with one room .
we always played cars and war and everything you can imagine .
and , '' alejo 's eyes darkened dangerously , we also went together to play basketball at the community center , which was set up so nicely for the boys from the neighborhood by the friendly local mayor , franco salazar . ''
wara 's gut began to tell her this story was not going to have a pleasant ending .
when i was thirteen , '' alejo said in a strangled voice , ruben told me that salazar had been abusing him for three years .
i told my parents , because i thought they would do something .
my dad had a lot of influence in the community .
they had a school , and three or four hundred people coming to their church .
my dad even had his own radio program .
i told them , thinking they would tell the police , that they would help my friend and put salazar in jail .
i was thirteen ? i did n't know what to do without their help .
well , my parents listened to me , and then they looked at each other with this look .
my father told me that we had to keep this to ourselves .
and , of course , my mother agreed .
biblical submission to your husband and all that . ''
alejo 's tanned face had paled in the light of the lamp , and wara frowned deeply , scandalized .
alejo was saying the martirs told him not to report child abuse ?
my parents told me that if we put ourselves on salazar 's bad side , '' alejo said , we would lose our permission to have the church in the town .
and who would be the light of the gospel to the community then ?
they said , if they got involved in this situation , they would lose all their influence for christ . ''
a long pause and then , in a more composed voice , one month later , ruben ended up in a ditch , dead . ''
alejo shrugged , as if all he had said were suddenly of no importance .
i went to live with my uncle , in santa cruz and went to a high school built by the iranian government .
life as a pastor 's kid suddenly just did n't seem palatable to me anymore . ''
alejo finished the last sentence of his story in a rush , and then jumped up from the bed , uncomfortable .
whatever has happened in the past , it ca n't bring back the people who died , '' he was saying , knuckles white , when wara thrust herself up on one elbow and hissed , not 'people ' .
it was n't 'people ' who died .
they had names !
noah hearst died !
may have died ! ''
wara ignored how alejo looked away miserably , probably because she did n't want to give up hope that noah could still have survived .
they all had names , '' wara found herself rambling , while at the same time thinking about ruben mamani , alejo 's little friend , thrown away like trash into the mud .
by a horrible man who abused little children while pretending to be a leader who cared about the people , a benefactor .
who built a beautiful community center for desperately poor children to come play basketball , only to lure them into his clutches .
it was good he was dead .
but why could n't only he be dead !
wara felt like sobbing .
now alejo did look physically sick , and he turned towards the door as if to go , then stumbled trying to turn around to again face wara .
salazar was a monster , wara , but what i did is still wrong !
i am a murderer .
but i did what seemed right in the moment .
i had to stop it ?
it was the best i could do ! ''
with actual tears running out of the corners of his eyes , alejo whirled away and was at the door of their hostel room in two steps , out of it in three .
alejo martir had left the room crying .
wara covered her head with the blanket and cried too , for noah .
and maybe for ruben .
20 red white and blue sometime while alejo was still up on the roof , wara fell asleep under the faded sheets and heavy blanket .
she was startled , when her eyes cracked open , to see that the hostel room was filled with gray light , filtering through the sheer fabric of the cream curtains .
a few fiery rays of sun poked out from behind a tall red brick building .
it was morning .
wara jerked into a sitting position , flipping her gaze over to alejo 's bed , half expecting it to still be empty .
his body was tucked under the covers , however , back towards wara .
at the sound of wara 's movement , alejo inhaled sharply and shot up on one elbow , rolling over onto his back at lightning speed .
he seemed relieved to see it was only her .
alejo groaned and sank back onto the pillow on his back , black hair sticking up wildly in all directions .
he scrubbed both fists across his eyes , then swung his legs over the side of the bed , sitting up to look at her .
hey , '' he said grimly .
feeling the awkwardness , wara did n't respond .
after the emotional encounter of last night , she did n't know what to say .
if his story were true , it made more sense how he could actually believe god would support killing a man like franco salazar .
but the truth was , wara still did n't feel as if she could trust alejo martir at all .
he could change personalities in an instant , one minute serious and morose , the next charming and convincing , seemingly able to manipulate anyone into doing what he wanted .
she was n't about to trust his story about salazar until she had talked with the martirs and confirmed some facts .
wara threw off the covers and headed for the bathroom in alexis ' wrinkled sweat pants and wombat shirt .
when she came out of the bathroom , he was waiting , pacing by the window , staring down at the alley outside .
could you come over to the other room ? ''
he asked .
we really need to talk about some stuff . ''
ok. '' wara shrugged .
she felt a little better than yesterday , after a quick shower .
soaking off the dried blood had hurt a lot , and she had washed her face without looking in the mirror , afraid of what she would see .
alejo had got her some ibuprofen , but she still felt like some foreign object was lodged on her face , twice the size of her own nose .
at least the throbbing had died down .
fighting the depression , wara trudged after alejo to the hall and the martirs ' door .
it was cracked open , and alejo pushed the deadbolt into place after they slipped inside .
dad . ''
alejo 's voice sounded unnatural saying the word .
can you come here for a second ?
i need to run this by you . ''
pablo martir looked as if he had n't slept a wink all night and he was staring out the window at the mountains .
alright , '' he said , and he and his son moved to one of the beds in the corner , each cautiously sitting down at the furthest extremes possible and beginning a hushed , strained conversation .
wara plopped down on a bed next to nazaret and noly at the other side of the room .
the kids were huddled on the beds , munching half heartedly on cheesy empanada pastries and sipping chocolate milk from flimsy plastic cups .
the thought of food made wara want to gag .
have you heard any more news ? ''
she asked nazaret 's mom .
she was terrified they might have heard more news .
as long as there was no news , there was still hope .
noly yawned and covered her mouth with one hand .
no , '' she said , and wara closed her eyes in relief .
i made a call really early from the street , of course .
alejandro says no cell phones .
the bennesons from your mission say they still have n't identified the body of any foreigners .
so far , the confirmed dead are a government guy from cochabamba and three of his staff two women and one man . ''
she was so glad they had n't found noah .
dead .
but a pang came along with it , because those people who died had been on the bus with her .
shed seen them whispering and laughing as they got on the bus .
when noah decided to get on his knees in the aisle and give her the ring , the people in the back had clapped .
she searched for the right words , and finally said , i made alejo tell me why he did what he did .
he was trying to kill the man who used to be mayor of quillacollo .
he said that you guys used to know him . ''
ah . ''
noly 's eyes grew sad , and she glanced over at nazaret .
franco salazar ? ''
yeah , '' wara nodded , snatching a watermelon bubble gum from the bedside table and popping it in her mouth .
her body seemed to float inches above the bed , and she felt a desperate need for the sugar .
alejo said that franco salazar was involved in all kinds of horrible stuff .
and that he killed a friend of his from when they were little ruben . ''
nazaret 's face went pale .
i just heard last night .
i mean , i remember when little ruben died , but i did n't know ? ''
she did n't know anything about salazar possibly being involved , '' noly murmured .
that part of our history is a painful memory that marked our lives forever .
the kids were so young they did n't know what was really going on .
her father told her last night , because salazar came up when he was talking with alejo . ''
noly pointed her chin towards nazaret , who looked conflicted .
did he tell you we did n't report what happened to ruben ? ''
wara rolled her eyes and nodded , waiting for noly to say that idea was ridiculous .
but instead , noly 's eyes crinkled as she said , we 've regretted that decision , made out of pride and reluctance to lose our place in the community , ever since . ''
wara was stunned .
she blinked and turned her head towards alejo , deep in discussion with his father .
alejo ran the day ruben was found dead , just after he turned fourteen , '' noly continued , swallowing hard and swiping at mascara running down one cheek .
it took years for us to understand how wrong we were .
we started the children 's center in villa candelaria to try to repent , somehow .
it 's all true , wara .
i know why he wanted salazar dead . ''
wara was still in a daze when alejo 's voice cut into their conversation .
you guys are involved with the children 's center in villa candelaria ?
i 'm ? surprised .
and glad .
i 've heard of that place it 's famous all over the country .
i just did n't know ? that you were involved . ''
we are , son , '' pastor martir said from behind him , and alejo nodded slowly , seemingly confused by this new development .
i talked with ? dad , '' alejo said .
the word still seemed to taste bitter in his mouth .
he thinks it would be good for you all to try to go to the united states .
to visit aunt wendy .
i have plenty of money , and i 'm going to go get as much as i can out of the bank now , before you go . ''
alejo 's family all stared at him with expressions of disbelief that clearly said go ?
you mean like right now ?
wo n't they be watching the bank ?
all your buddies ? ''
wara demanded , imagining gabriel and scary benjamin staking out the bank with rifles from a crumbling apartment window across the street .
alejo shook his head .
there are ten branches of my bank here in cochabamba , and they do n't have enough manpower to watch all of them at the same time .
today i can get enough to take care of you all for quite awhile , and the rest is in a cayman islands account only i have access to .
i 'll get all that to you later . ''
pastor martir stood frowning at his son , burly arms crossed in front of his chest .
alejo grunted and turned to wara .
none of the family have passports , except dad .
i want to see if the u.s. will give them visas and put them in protection , in exchange for the information i have .
we also need to let the embassy know you 're alive . ''
he took wara back to their room , and alejo dialed the embassy number on a brand new cell phone he had picked up across the street .
wara took another handful of ibuprofen from the bedside table and forced herself to sip water while alejo talked with someone for quite a long time .
by his frustrated expression , wara could tell the conversation did n't go well .
so ? ''
she asked as he punched the end button a little too hard and slammed a fist into the bedpost .
they agree with you , '' alejo scowled at the little gray phone .
i do n't think they bought most of what i said , but from the little i told them now , they have decided that i am a terrorist .
and , '' alejo hurled the phone onto the bed , obviously using less force than he would have liked , the u.s. government does not help the family of terrorists . ''
what ! ? ''
wara squawked .
they wo n't help them because you 're a terrorist ?
but that 's why they need help ! ''
alejo 's mouth twisted into a grim smile .
i guess you 're right .
robert cole at the embassy told me to tell you that you should contact them so they can pick you up immediately to send you home , by the way .
they are going to call your family right away and confirm that you are alive and well . ''
both alejo and wara flinched at that expression .
they have n't found the bodies of any americans , '' he added after a while , then looked away .
wara 's heart revved .
they had n't found noah 's body .
which meant he could still be alive .
he had to still be alive .
so now where will you send the martirs ? ''
she asked shakily .
since the good old u.s. of a has been so helpful ? ''
alejo grimaced and massaged his temple , feet planted on the tile floor .
everyone i know who could be any help in hiding them is connected to the prism .
without all those contacts , i ca n't get passports , visas , anything . ''
he let out a frustrated breath and then sat up , looking at wara .
we 'll go to plan b , '' he announced .
i 'll put them on a bus to lima this afternoon .
they wo n't check passports at the border , since they do n't look like tourists .
we 'll take a taxi to sacaba , that little town outside the city , and take a bus from there .
the guys , hopefully , will only be watching the main terminal here in the city .
they can get passports at the embassy there and take a flight to another country .
it 's all so sudden , but we have enough money and i can make a new life for my family . ''
alejo sighed slowly , watching wara .
you should call the embassy to come pick you up , '' he said .
wara 's mind was reeling .
those guys she had seen on the mountain they would forget about her soon though , right ?
she could go home , see her parents , find a new place to live and work ?
come back to bolivia someday ?
at the moment , wara did n't care at all what she did or where she lived .
only two thoughts consumed her mind seeing the martirs safe and out of this nightmare , and finding noah hearst .
i ca n't go without noah . ''
the words slipped out before wara realized it .
alejo looked at her sharply , mouth open as if about to protest but she cut him off .
i wo n't leave bolivia until i know . ''
his mouth snapped shut , and he got up quickly and paced to the other bed , lowering himself down cross legged on top of the unmade covers .
he closed his eyes and massaged his temples even harder .
i 'll stay with you until they know , '' alejo said finally .
my family can go on ahead , and we can meet them .
i 'm not going to leave you alone . ''
but ? ''
wara tried to protest , but could n't come up with anything reasonable to say .
no , you go on .
i 'll just ward off all of those killers myself .
i did such a lovely job of it last time .
alejo 's very presence in the room caused a veritable host of unpleasant sensations in wara 's brain .
so why did her heart flood with something like relief at his plan ?
thank you , '' was all she finally said , fighting hard not to cry .
21 cinnamon the hostal salta seemed lonely and depressing after the martirs left .
when alejo and wara pulled up in front of the hostel in a white taxi , the street lamps were already gleaming upon the darkened sidewalk , though people still hustled by in both directions .
wara supposed it must be around seven o'clock one hour after she had waved good bye to the family who had been like her own .
she had barely been able to make out each face , peering through the tinted windows of a sleek double decker bus about to depart for lima , peru .
alejo had convinced his family to follow his plan , then had them call a friend from church to bring clothes from the market and food for the trip .
all of the kids ' clothes and toys stayed behind .
the faded photograph of missing alejandro from nazaret 's dresser .
anyone who brought things from the martirs house could be followed back here to the hostel .
the younger kids climbed onto the bus at sacaba with huge tears in their eyes .
silky gray rain clouds swirled across the evening sky , threatening a downpour as the entire martir family boarded the bus that would take them away from bolivia .
nazaret sobbed as she hugged wara , hesitated , and then threw herself at her brother , weeping against his chest .
alejo 's back had been towards her , but wara had seen him put his arms around nazaret until she pulled away .
now , wara stepped out of the taxi and slammed the door , facing the unlit stars of the hostel .
she and alejo , who had tried to kill her , were alone here together , and wara had never felt so strange .
the faded pinstriped sheets and lumpy pillows were still waiting .
wara felt even more depressed as she entered their hostel room , realizing that alejo was now her only company .
maybe she could call nazaret on her long bus trip later , just to hear the sound of a known voice .
alejo had picked up several more cheap little prepaid cell phones from the viva shop , and given three to the martirs , plus one to wara .
wara had made one call to the bennesons , to ask them to call her on this number as soon as there was any news about noah .
explaining why they should n't give the number to anyone else had been tricky , as was trying to tell them why she was n't at home in the apartment below theirs , and could n't come back for safety reasons .
why am i here with alejo , instead of letting the u.s. embassy pick me up and take care of me until i know about noah ?
after hanging up with the bennesons , the question had bothered her .
because the embassy does n't even seem to believe what is going on , wara realized .
you do n't know them .
alejo is a martir and you know him .
that 's crazy !
wara had scolded herself .
he 's one of them !
alejo closed the door and turned on the light .
thirty seconds of silence filled the room , as both of them sunk down onto one of the beds , listless .
then he sighed and asked do you want to go to la paz ?
the search and rescue efforts are working from there , and it 's the closest major hospital . ''
wara stared at him , feeling very weary , having a hard time understanding what he was saying .
did she want to go to la paz ?
of course !
if they find noah that would be where they would take him , the best major hospital .
noly said that noah 's parents were going to be in la paz , waiting .
but wara could n't decide what she wanted to do at all , except that she wanted to see her best friend who she loved again .
i do n't know , '' she finally said hoarsely .
what do you think ? ''
alejo looked away .
they 've been searching for two days now , and they should be done soon .
noah lived here the funeral will would be in cochabamba .
i think you should stay here . ''
his words hit wara like a punch in the gut .
everything alejo said sounded so logical , but the cold reality of making such a decision based on the fact that the funeral would be here ? for a moment she could n't breathe .
it took her a long time to collect her thoughts and say , weakly , ok. '' all day she had waited with bated breath , feeling that any phone call could bring news that noah had been found , alive .
but hearing alejo say that he expected the news would be about the funeral brought wara back down to reality with a very painful crash .
after a long while she heard alejo say , i told danny downstairs that we 're checking out tonight .
we need to move to another place it wo n't be that hard for the guys to show our picture to reception at all of the cheap hostels in cochabamba , and the longer we stay in one place , the more time they have to do that . ''
his voice sounded tight , but calm , not as bone weary as wara herself felt .
alright , '' she managed .
her eyes were closed , and she felt her breathing slow , suddenly so relaxed she felt almost one with the sagging mattress underneath her .
she cleared her throat and mumbled , right now ? ''
the thought crossed wara 's mind that if she never got up off this bed again , that would be perfectly fine .
yeah , right now , '' alejo said , almost sounding apologetic .
we need to get going .
and besides , now 's a good time .
we 'll be going under cover of darkness . ''
wara cracked open her eyes and raised one eyebrow at him .
his hazel eyes were watching her , expression unreadable .
fine , '' she answered him , sliding her eyes back shut .
but i think you 'll have to pack my bag for me . ''
a joke , since her belongings consisted of two changes of clothes the martirs ' friend had brought her from the market , along with a toothbrush and shampoo .
alexis ' shiny reared sweat pants and wombat shirt had found their final resting place in the bathroom trash can .
wara realized that alejo had actually gotten up and was bringing her toothbrush from the bathroom .
he made sure it was inside the brown plaid bag that had also come from the market , and then slung that and a black backpack that had been brought for him over his shoulder .
ready ? ''
he asked , standing near the door .
i promise you can sleep when we get to our new place . ''
wara sighed loudly and rolled off the bed , hanging on to the side until she was steady .
her bleary gaze fell on alejo , and she thought he did n't look quite as threatening now that he was no longer wearing the military style cargo pants and sweaty gray t shirt from up on the mountain .
he actually looked rather normal now in dark jeans , a hunter green hoodie , and leather tennis shoes .
are they going to find them ? ''
she asked groggily , as she followed alejo out the door into the hallway .
without turning around , he answered carefully , i do n't think so .
i would never forgive myself . ''
their taxi sped along the highway towards sacaba , the same route they had taken to say good bye to the martirs .
not even halfway to sacaba , alejo directed the taxi driver to veer off the highway towards a gravel covered incline .
with a sharp tap of the brakes , the driver darted in front of oncoming traffic on the highway 's opposite lane and bumped onto the more uneven road .
he then punched the gas , letting the shiny , newer taxi climb up towards wherever their final destination would be .
spanish pop music filled the clean , gray interior of the taxi , and the young driver , wearing a peach polo shirt , tapped a muscular forearm against the steering wheel to keep rhythm .
this under maintained road took them higher and higher up one of the mountains at cochabamba 's northern edge , the bumps and ruts jolting the taxi with more violence the farther along they went .
three iridescent cds hung from the top of the windshield on gold cords , dangling and swaying with each jolt of the car .
a los moteles , no amigo ? ''
the taxi driver 's eyes met alejo 's in the rear view mirror .
yep , '' alejo nodded to him , mouth turning up .
el cupido . ''
wara glanced over at alejo sharply .
they were entering an area where the dusty road was pock marked with rocks and shaded by eucalyptus trees .
on either side , brightly painted walls rose up , sporting neon signs with names that did not appear to be those of respectable hotels safari , the oasis , the park drive in '' , and lover 's paradise .
wara stared in disbelief , and then her eyes fell upon a towering sign of a glowing cupid , complete with heart tipped arrows .
and underneath , a giant closed gate painted the color of red hot candies with an enormous pink heart .
oh , this was not good .
someone had once made a comment to her that in some part of cochabamba there were motels '' where one could pay for rooms by the hour , usually for romantic encounters .
the taxi that held alejo and wara had pulled up in front of the looming hot pink heart , which now filled the entire windshield .
their taxi driver honked twice merrily and waited , still tapping the steering wheel to the rhythm .
you have got to be kidding me , wara gaped , then snapped her mouth shut and whirled towards alejo .
what is this ? ''
she hissed .
he tried to appear unfazed , obviously having known wara would react this way .
this is the only place where you can stay without having to show id , '' he whispered in her ear .
alejo scooted closer and slung an arm around her shoulder .
just act natural , ok ?
i had to lie through my teeth to get danny back at the salta to let you stay without id , and he only did it because he 's a nice guy .
we 've got these nice , dark tinted windows .
that 's why i picked this taxi . ''
alejo motioned fluidly towards one of the windows , as if waiting for wara to take in how they were invisible to prying eyes outside the taxi and stop being angry that he had brought her to a motel called el cupido .
then he continued , squeezing her close against his side for the taxi driver 's benefit .
probably just some kid will come out to take our money , and then we 've got a room .
if the guys from my team would come here , no one has got our id .
plus , this place is pretty secretive .
i 'm sure you can imagine why '' wara swallowed hard .
she closed her eyes and counted to ten , mortally embarrassed , doing her best not to rip herself away from alejo 's grip .
just when she thought she could n't stand it a moment longer , the huge wooden door of love swung open by some invisible hand and the idling taxi drove inside .
the courtyard they entered was grassy , shaded with trees , and mostly dark .
off to the right , wara could see a long row of motel rooms , each sporting a pair of hearts painted on the red hot , numbered doors .
stifling a groan , wara leaned her head back onto the seat back .
alejo winked at the driver , who seemed to be enjoying this .
you 'll talk to the boy for us , right ?
just slit the window so no one 'll see us . ''
no problem , '' the guy in the peach shirt nodded , and with one touch of a button the cobalt glass glided a few inches lower , revealing a brief glimpse of a young boy with chocolate skin and a tattered green hulk t shirt .
si , amigo ? ''
he said into the taxi , and wara was shocked by the squeakiness of the kid 's voice .
he could n't be more than ten years old .
what was he doing in this kind of place ?
ask him how much for two days , '' alejo told the driver .
five hundred bolivianos , '' the taxi driver announced after consulting with the boy outside .
he raised his eyebrows at alejo in the mirror .
alejo pulled out a fat wad of red one hundred boliviano notes from the pocket of his jeans and peeled five off .
the driver passed them through the cracked open window and the kid counted the money , crisping the bills in his hand with the efficiency of a los vegas casino employee .
number six , '' the kids squeaked , and passed something metallic and jingly into the interior of the car .
alejo snatched the item from the driver 's burly fist , and wara saw it was a single silver key , attached to a key chain with a cherry red , puffy , lace trimmed heart .
alejo started to hand her the key , saw her face , and then lowered his eyes , stuffing the key into the pocket of his hoodie .
the driver sealed the window shut with a soft hiss , and then slowly pulled across the grass to leave them closer to the heart doors .
without a word , alejo opened the car door for wara , then paid the driver .
do n't look behind you when you get out , '' alejo breathed into her ear , and wara 's cheeks flamed as she exited into the cool night .
she gathered her composure and followed alejo , forcing herself to stare at the double hearts ahead instead of behind her , where she thought the boy who had taken their money might still be watching in the darkness .
but then again , the kid was probably already back inside watching cartoons , so used to this life that there was absolutely nothing exciting about the arrival of yet one more couple .
see , that was n't too bad , '' alejo said under his breath as he jammed the silver key into the lock .
the plush heart bobbed around wildly as he turned the key to motel room number six .
the wooden door swung open , immersing wara in a warm glow of cinnamon red .
the entire interior of the room was varying shades of red .
lit , neon red christmas lights ran around the ceiling , and the walls were cherry red and white stripes , crisscrossed with painted cupids , arrows ready to fly .
shaggy , worn crimson carpet blanketed the floor , cushioning wara 's ankles as she warily stepped inside .
and in the center of the room sat a double bed , fire truck red satin comforter shimmering under a gaudy gold headboard in the shape of a heart .
alejo gingerly closed the door behind them and flipped on the light , causing wara to gasp .
a monstrous , cheap crystal chandelier exploded with light above them , and every diamond shaped light bulb was red , spreading a rosy scarlet hue across everything in the room , including alejo 's face .
what do you think ? ''
he had the audacity to ask with a crooked grin .
wara did n't know whether to laugh or run out the door .
of course you can have the bed .
i 'll take that couch . ''
wara followed his gaze to the wall , where a plush couch , the color of cinnamon red hot candies , snuggled against the wall .
next to it , a wicker chair with a matching footrest was adorned with cushions to match the couch .
it was all just too much .
i hate it ! ''
wara responded to his question , turning in a slow circle around the room .
i have never seen anything so ugly in my entire life .
it 's ? indescribable . ''
i 'm sorry i had to bring you here , '' alejo said , seemingly feeling bad for her .
it 's just that it really is the best spot to hide ? ''
yeah , your reasoning does make a twisted kind of sense , '' wara sighed .
noah would have chuckled at this , and for sure he could have written a hilarious song about this room with this taylor guitar .
nazaret would have been shocked , then dissolved into a fit of giggles .
wara missed both of them so much , and felt awfully , terribly alone .
alejo hauled the wicker chair over under the room 's only window , a long , rectangular shaped opening that ran higher than the level of their heads next to the door .
he pulled aside the gauzy red curtain and peered outside , probably checking for any bad guys .
the gaze he fixed on her as he stepped down from the fuzzy red couch was so like nazaret 's that for a moment she blinked , forgetting he was really so different from the other martirs .
were you really good friends with all those guys i saw up there ? ''
she asked .
alejo dragged the wicker chair back to the corner and sat down , considering how much he was going to tell her .
finally he said , most of the guys that were there at first the guys that carried you up from the road were only there for the weekend , for training .
i was n't only in charge of my team , but of training all the guys in most of south america .
that 's why they 're going to be so mad . ''
that last sentence was muttered .
four of the guys were on my team we were like brothers .
gabriel , stalin , benjamin , and lzaro .
well , not lzaro .
he 's new .
but gabriel and benjamin and i shared a house together in coroico .
and stalin and i have been friends for ten years . ''
the memory hit her , leaving a sour taste in her mouth alejo worked with lzaro .
back when she knew him , lzaro had said he was a christian .
wara did not even want to think how he had reached the point of becoming a radical muslim who was about to cut her throat .
and she really did n't want to talk with alejo about it .
she wandered over to the bed and collapsed on it with slumped shoulders .
she felt sick and weary to the bone .
wara twisted noah 's silver ring on her finger , her only comfort in this awful place .
22 sickly pink wara was exhaused .
she was suffering , and alejo had done this to her .
he watched her , sitting there on the horrible bed in this place he 'd brought her to , playing with a silver ring on her finger .
her eyes were ringed in dark circles , glazed over and in another world she shivered and absently scrubbed at her bare arms , trying to get warm .
alejo 's heart hurt .
he got up and walked over to her backpack by the door and found a black sweater his mom 's friend had brought for wara .
its cold in here , '' he offered it to her .
it was dark outside now , chilly and menacing in the shadow of the darkened andes .
she looked into his eyes as he handed her the sweater and her face was bathed in red from gaudy chandelier .
her nose was a sickly violet and yellow , puffy under her reddened eyes .
it had to hurt .
a lot .
alejo closed his eyes slowly , then opened them .
i think we should try to rest . ''
he dragged his feet over to the couch .
the ugly thing was three cushions wide , good enough for a decent night 's sleep .
he curled up facing the wall and stuffed a small , hard red pillow under his head .
whenever you 're ready , you can turn out the lights , '' he told wara .
i can sleep anywhere , with lights or without , so do n't worry about me . ''
as if she would .
alejo grimaced at the back of the couch .
he had no idea what else to say .
wara switched off the light and covers rustled behind him , then everything fell silent .
way too silent .
suddenly , the horror of the day pressed into him with a vengeance and it hurt .
franco salazar was dead , and he could n't say he was sorry .
he believed what he 'd told wara , that he could n't just sit by and watch while thieves attacked the man in the story of the good samaritan ? or while franco salazar abused kids .
but he 'd never really thought about other people who could be hurt in the middle of delivering justice to the bad guys .
he 'd never laid eyes on noah , but alejo had seen his sister 's tears , heard how the guy played with his little brothers and sisters and made sure nazaret got home safe late at night .
for all alejo knew , that silver ring wara was always playing with was a gift from noah .
it was obvious she cared about him , a lot .
always before , when alejo killed , he had been sure the man who died was scum and deserved whatever he had coming to him .
now , for the first time , someone innocent had been taken out along with the bad .
alejo knew the reason wara 's presence was undoing him she was the incarnation of a person simply caught in the crossfire .
he felt guilty for the other innocent people on the bus , but he had never seen them .
when he looked into wara 's eyes and realized what he had done , there had been no going back .
the combination of leaving islam , leaving the prism , and trying to figure out why , if he had done god 's will , he could still feel so wrong , spun alejo 's world upside down .
a half hour or so went by , and wara 's even breathing seemed to indicate that she was asleep .
a slightly hellish glow filtered into the dark room through the sheer red curtains from a street lamp in the courtyard outside .
alejo closed his eyes but he just could n't sleep .
and then there 's my family .
who he had avoided in anger for years , then dragged into the very path of death .
he kept thinking about his father , and the few words they had had just before the martirs went to sacaba to take the bus away from bolivia .
pablo martir told alejo he wanted to speak with him up on the roof again , alone , and alejo had steeled himself for the conversation .
he really hoped his father would understand that there was n't much that could be added to what had already been said .
there was nothing alejo could say that would make it right .
there was nothing his father could say that would make alejo feel more acutely how badly he had messed up , getting his entire family into this situation .
there was no other solution that alejo could see to the problem even if he would walk right back into coroico and show up at the doorstep of his old house so the prism could shoot him , the 964 would still be angry , and they could still go after his family .
and wara was still a witness .
alejo had trudged up the concrete steps to the roof , following the broader form of his father .
all these years , he had imagined that his father was still occupied as a pastor , preaching that jesus saves while letting the world go to hell .
somehow , finding out that he had been directing the only center for children with aids in the country , which would now be left without leadership because of alejo , made alejo feel even more depressed .
the faded sheets were still drifting lazily on the line in the afternoon breeze on the hostel rooftop .
alejo 's father turned to face his son squarely .
son , i ca n't tell you how sorry i am we ca n't have more time together .
there is so much more i 'd like to talk about , but as you said , now is not the time ? ''
his voice cracked a little , and alejo felt his shoulders tense .
so much time lost , '' pablo continued , and now i do n't even know what will happen , what you ? ''
he stopped and sighed , obviously thinking something along the lines of , ? if you are going to continue being a criminal , because that really complicates our relationship . ''
the one thing i want to ask you before we leave , though , '' alejo 's father said after the scowl had faded , is about what you said before , about jesus .
you said that you have been a muslim ? ''
yep , i 've been a muslim since i was eighteen , '' alejo confirmed dryly , wondering where his father was going with this .
but you told me that you are no longer a muslim , that you are a christian . ''
alejo hesitated , the term christian still racking him with unpleasant sensations of long sermons with too many amens .
people pretending to praise god while peeking to see whose hands were raised the highest .
little boys dead in the grass so that no one would disrupt the worship of god in the church building every sunday .
alejo exhaled loudly .
i guess so ... dad .
i do n't want to be a christian like i was taught .
i 'm sorry .
when i read the bible and saw what jesus said ? it was like i had never heard most of it before .
and i wanted that .
i want that .
it 's him i want , not a religion . ''
pablo sighed deeply , eyes boring into his son 's .
then he actually stepped forward to clasp alejo 's shoulder , tears in his eyes .
we all need a lot of grace right now , '' he said hoarsely .
pablo martir let go of his son and turned as if to go , then paused .
without looking back he said , noah had jesus living in him .
he would have forgiven you , alejandro . ''
alejo had shivered , staring at the back of his father 's head as he walked towards the metal door that led back downstairs and disappeared .
then noah was a better man that i am , he thought .
alejo , who usually could sleep like a baby even with a rock for a pillow , finally drifted into a fitful sleep on the soft red couch .
he jerked upright at a foreign sound filling the room .
a cell phone !
slapping around in the darkness , he got a hold on the metal chain of a pink floral lamp next to the couch and yanked it , flooding the motel room with sickly sweet light .
wara had already flown across the room towards her bag and was throwing out clothes , looking for the phone that kept drilling its tinny tune into the night .
realizing it was n't there , she dove back for the bed , crawled over it , and grabbed the phone vibrating across the nightstand .
her hands were shaking so hard she could hardly flip the thing open to gasp a breathless , hello ? ''
alejo sank back into the couch , hoping the call was his sister in need of a midnight conversation .
the odds were against that , however there really was n't a good chance a call in the middle of the night would bring good news .
yeah , it 's me . ''
wara 's voice quivered .
she waited , then waited some more .
alejo exhaled as her entire body crumpled and sank back into the sheets , seemingly buried in the mass of fluffy pillows and thick satin bedspread .
when ? ''
silence , and then she choked out , th thank you . ''
the cell phone shut with a near silent click , and then alejo saw wara pull the covers up over her head .
you can go back to sleep , '' she finally said in a voice that did not sound like herself .
the bennesons just wanted to let me know that the funeral will be tomorrow at ten . ''
they found him .
alejo 's blood chilled , and he pulled the lamp off quickly , as if afraid to sit any longer in the light when he just found out he had caused a funeral .
rubbing his temples , alejo rolled back onto the couch , slowly , staring up at the ceiling .
his brain told him he should say something .
what kind of man just sat there without saying anything when a woman finds out the guy she loved has died ?
alejo did n't even need to run through the possible options in his mind , however , to know that finding something adequate to say to her would be impossible .
taking a deep breath , he shivered , eyes fixed on nothing in the darkness until it was nearly morning .
a morning in which alejo would go to a funeral .
23 bittersweet the morning passed by as if in a dream .
after somehow getting ready , wara followed alejo out of el cupido and waited a few blocks away on a shaded corner for a missionary family , the paulsons , to come pick them up .
alejo had said something about the prism finding them , so they would need to try to sneak into the house where the funeral would be held .
he insisted she call someone with a van so they could hide out lying on the floor .
the paulsons had quickly agreed to pick them up .
corban and misty paulson had been good friends with noah no one said a word during the entire ride to the house where the funeral would be held .
a solemn metallic clanging and the stilling of the purring engine told wara that the van had finally arrived inside the gate of the bennesons ' house .
she picked herself up off the floor , brushing crumbs off her pants in a daze .
she followed alejo and the paulsons across the wide lawn with its spiky green grass , around a multitude of assorted land cruisers and brasilias already parked inside the house 's walls .
the zip of cool air inside the shade of the white walled house hit her face , along with the unnatural hush emanating from within .
everyone turned to stare as she slipped through the door .
wara swayed on her feet , overcome by the sight of all of her friends , noah 's friends , gathered here , because noah was actually dead .
wara ! ''
tobin was folding her into an embrace against his bony shoulders .
i ca n't believe this happened to noah .
we were so worried .
about both of you . ''
wara pulled away from him numbly , only to find herself hugged by person after person from her mission .
from noah 's church .
tobias , the other australian , was scrubbing reddish eyes , obviously trying not to cry as he gave her a quick hug .
she saw tobin 's gaze ride up to where alejo stood somewhere in the background , probably looking dangerous and out of place at a funeral with his uncut curly hair and jeans .
wara wondered for a brief moment if she should feel like a traitor for daring to come to noah 's funeral with the man who was responsible for his death .
but then she realized she could n't feel anything , not yet .
wara , '' tobias was saying , we brought a guitar for you .
they want you to sing something for noah just one song .
can you do it ? ''
wara gulped , then nodded without thinking .
of course she would sing , if it was for noah .
it was her last chance .
thanks , '' tobias nodded and sniffed loudly , laying a hand on her arm .
then he was off in the direction of the living room .
she did n't know what to do , so she just followed him , practically floating in the sea of people milling around here at noah 's funeral .
it was unreal .
wara really , really wanted to cry .
as she moved to go into the main living area , a huge , arched room painted in bold colors , rough fingers brushed her arm .
wara looked up to find eduardo sejas , the good looking bolivian guy who had been in coroico with noah .
his usually twinkling eyes were red rimmed behind black trendy glasses , and he wore a dark suit and tie .
wara , '' he started , and then his voice choked .
you 're still alive .
we were so worried ? ''
is he here ? ''
wara heard herself say , glancing towards the living room .
yeah , '' eduardo said , and sighed .
i mean , he 's not really here , he 's with god , but ... the casket is in there . ''
wara bit her lip and reached up with one hand to push a stray piece of hair out of one eye .
as she did , eduardo 's gaze followed her hand , and his mouth opened into a round o '' .
they gave you noah 's ring ? ''
he asked , staring at the shining silver on her hand .
wara frowned , not sure who he was talking about .
eduardo grabbed her hand quickly and examined the ring .
is n't that noah 's ring ? ''
he lifted his eyes to hers again , blinking behind the trendy glasses .
did you find it after the accident ? ''
no , '' wara said , realizing dully that eduardo , as one of noah 's best friends , must have seen this ring sometime before .
she had never seen noah wearing it .
eduardo sniffed loudly , but his face lit up .
he gave it to you ? ''
yeah , '' wara said hesitantly , not sure where this was leading .
why did it really matter ?
that 's awesome ! ''
eduardo was actually grinning .
what ? ''
in her present condition , wara was obviously missing something .
noah saved that ring for a really long time , '' eduardo explained slowly , as if revealing a delicious secret .
he said that he did n't want to just casually date someone , but that when he started a relationship he wanted it to be serious .
well , a lot of the guys , we used to always tell him , 'well , start a relationship then !
what are you waiting for ? '
but noah would always say that he thought maybe god wanted him to be single , since god had n't brought the right girl along yet .
i told him so many times that that was a bunch of hogwash .
he knew several great girls .
noah was just plain scared of commitment !
he told me that his parents always fought like cats and dogs , and that they never loved each other a day in their lives . ''
wara swallowed hard and circled the ring around her finger .
she knew that noah 's relationship with his parents was n't the best , mostly due to his decision to be a missionary instead of pursuing a career that would make lots of money .
he had never mentioned anything about his parents ' relationship with each other .
so , last weekend , when he was going to coroico , '' eduardo was going on , noah told me that he was taking the ring along , since god supposedly was n't bringing any girls into his life that he could give it to and he had reached the ripe old age of twenty eight .
he was just going to ceremoniously throw it out the side of the bus , over the road of death .
to put to death the idea of marriage and living happily ever after . ''
eduardo 's eyes were swimming but the twinkle was back but it looks like he did n't throw the ring over after all .
he gave it to you ... right ? ''
wara just stared at him , because her throat hurt too much to try to speak .
she gave a curt nod , not even trying to pretend she was n't about to cry .
eduardo looked very satisfied .
thank you , '' she finally whispered , wanting to ask more before she had to go into the living room .
but then she saw the couple dressed in black , standing at the back of the room through the wide double doors , weeping .
wara had never seen their picture , but the look of utter desolation on their faces and the way their gaze shifted uncomfortably around the room as if they were in a strange land they had never before imagined they would see , told her that these were noah 's parents .
his mom and dad . ''
eduardo touched wara 's arm , following the direction of her gaze .
we 'll talk another time , ok ? ''
wara nodded , and glanced at alejo , who was standing , tight lipped behind her , pale face revealing that he had heard who was in the next room .
she turned her back to him and forced herself to walk through the open double doors , completely ignoring the small , hushed groups of people clustered around the room , whispering .
her mind registered that the music she heard was noah , one of the cds he had recorded with the guys for fun at the studio on espaa .
his voice cut her to the heart .
why could n't that really be you ?
a long table was set up in the corner with punch and refreshments .
ridiculous .
who could eat now ?
along the burgundy wall at the opposite side of the living room was an espresso colored casket , lying on a curled metal stand , closed .
wara 's knees felt weak .
before she could think she threw herself across the tile floor and drew up to the edge of the long , dark casket , spreading her hands out along the smooth wood .
a tear dripped off her chin onto noah 's casket , and wara pressed her forehead into the cool wood , eyes closed .
if the world ended now , that would be just fine .
the shaky voice came from a woman just behind wara .
were you one of his friends ? ''
she reluctantly raised her head and stared at the speaker through bleary eyes .
it was noah 's mother slim and fashionable , wearing a short black suit dress and a string of platinum colored pearls , bobbed hair dyed blond gave her the appearance of being much younger than she must be .
wara 's gaze shifted behind her and saw the portly , balding man that must be noah 's father .
he seemed at home in an expensive black suit with a sky blue tie .
drops of perspiration trickled down his forehead despite the coolness of the room .
yes , '' wara heard herself answer .
the overweight father shuffled uncomfortably forward , glancing around the room as if he would give his entire fortune to be anywhere but here .
he took his place at his wife 's side and tried to focus his attention on wara .
wara ignored the trail left by the tear down her right cheek .
are you noah 's parents ? ''
yes , we are ? were ? his parents . ''
noah 's mother had mascara smears under her emerald green eyes , and wara 's heart flipped , recognizing noah 's eyes in hers .
with a stifled sob , his mother covered her mouth with one manicured hand and wiped away a stray tear with the other .
and you must have been a good friend , '' she sniffed .
wara blurted out , i was ? me and noah were ? i loved him .
i was his girlfriend . ''
yes , for a few minutes , but what did that matter now ?
she had noah 's ring , and she knew that he had wanted to be with her .
noah 's father looked shocked , and his mother burst into tears .
wara could n't miss mr. hearst 's disparaging look that traveled over wara 's rumpled clothing , henna tattoos , nose ring , and bruised face .
surely she did n't look fit to be at a funeral , much less to be the girlfriend of their precious son from a wealthy family .
but noah 's mother just waved her hand at her husband and held two slender white arms out toward wara for an embrace .
mrs. hearst delicately pulled her forward for a hug , and while wara was pressed against her shoulder she noticed a framed photograph on top of the casket .
a clean cut young man wearing a blue dress shirt and a silk tie smiled confidently from the picture , looking for all the world like a slick lawyer or a successful salesman .
with a gasp , wara realized she was looking at a younger noah , long hair clipped off , clean shaven and wearing a tie .
what would noah 's parents think if they had seen him how she had known him , with the tattoo and terribly not cool clothes , playing soccer in the dust with school children ?
this is how they wanted him to be , she thought miserably .
this picture must be from when he was studying international business .
next to the larger photograph were two smaller ones , also in gold gilded frames .
one was a blond boy , about six years old , wearing a star wars t shirt and grinning at the camera while missing both front teeth .
wara had never seen a photo of noah as a kid .
the other frame showed a chubby baby with bright emerald eyes , stuffed into a starched white suit and staring at the camera while a trail of drool escaped from one side of his rosebud lips .
mrs. hearst let her go , again swiping at tears under her painted eyes .
i did n't know he had a girlfriend she rasped .
he never told us .
oh , we wasted so much time ? ''
noah 's mom broke off , bit her lip , then tried to compose herself .
of course i do n't know your parents , but i would like to tell you , on behalf of noah 's parents , whose hearts are broken ? ''
the woman dissolved into tears again and her husband put one hand stiffly on her arm , obviously embarrassed by how his wife was carrying on .
mrs. hearst 's lip curled with anger and she yanked her arm out of his grip .
what was your name , dear ? ''
she asked crossly .
wara told her .
wara . ''
noah 's mother pronounced the foreign name and then drilled wara with her bereaved eyes , voice shaky and tight .
for your parents , leave this awful country and go home .
there 's nothing for you here .
look what comes of all this supposed 'doing good ' !
for the love of god , leave this terrible place ! ''
wara felt shaken by the woman 's emotion , and she wanted to back away , get out of this conversation , go back where she could be closer to noah .
she wondered briefly if the embassy had listened to alejo at all when he told them that the bus had been attacked , and if they had told the hearsts about it .
no one 's here from the embassy , trying to find me to get more information .
the hearsts seem devastated but not furious .
they must not know .
then another hand touched her arm , and she jerked around to see an athletic looking guy with a pock marked face and mahogany skin .
a crisp white dress shirt was tucked into worn jeans , and his hair was slicked back with way too much gel .
he addressed noah 's mother .
i 'm so sorry , ma'am .
you do n't know me , but my name is hector villanueva and i 'm a volunteer with the sar search and rescue team . ''
he paused , obviously noticing the three confused gringo faces .
i was part of the team that went down to the bus accident , '' he clarified , expression grave and serious .
this accident ? upset me so much .
i 've been a volunteer for ten years , but this one really got to me .
i 've been going to the funerals of nearly all of the victims , and i just wanted to tell you , the parents , how sorry i am . ''
mr. and mrs. hearst were staring blankly at the man , and wara realized with a start that they did n't understand a word he was saying .
she numbly translated most of what the sar volunteer had said into english .
mrs. hearst nodded , barely looking at the man , but noah 's father 's face had gone crimson and he lumbered forward , bearing down on hector villanueva .
now listen here , '' he growled , swiping at a drop of sweat about to run into his eye .
there 's a woman from the embassy here with us , i suppose as a babysitter , but the embassy does n't appear to have any information about anything .
we 've tried for days to get information about the rescue efforts , progress , anything .
and guess what , no one knew anything !
well '' mr. hearst cut his tirade short for a moment as he noticed that wara was translating for the sar worker .
then he ranted on , last night , with no warning , we get a call from some missionary who knew our son that he is dead !
well , you were there can you tell us what has been going on since that accident ?
why did n't they find our son until last night ?
and if they found him before , why the heck did n't anyone tell us anything ? ''
noah 's father 's voice cracked , and he fell silent , swiveling his gaze over to the silent coffin along the wall .
wara felt faint , but translated the general gist back to the man who had been there on the side of the mountain cliff .
looking for noah 's body among the twisted vines and jungle thorns .
noah 's parents wanted to know what they had found .
i ca n't do this . ''
she trembled from head to toe , backing away from the three others in the conversation .
i ca n't translate this , how he was ? ''
a tight hand clapped her on the shoulder , and wara lifted wild eyes to meet alejo 's , deadly serious and morose .
you 've been standing up too long , '' he told her in spanish , and then the grim line of his mouth softened .
i 'm going to translate for them .
go sit over there . ''
without waiting to be told a second time , wara hurriedly slipped away from the conversation that had suddenly turned gruesome and found refuge in a tan swivel chair a few feet behind noah 's parents .
she collapsed into it , pulling her feet up to sit cross legged , and buried her face into her hands .
of course from here she could still hear everything that was said , but at least she would n't be the one to translate it .
wara focused on the sar worker 's spanish instead of alejo 's clipped , perfect english as he translated .
hector villanueva had already launched back into the conversation , seriously stating the facts to answer noah 's father 's questions .
he was describing the process sar , the bolivian volunteer search and rescue department , had used to scale down the rugged terrain , then systematically search for bodies .
they had started , of course , with the charred remains of the bus .
we were able to identify all but three of the bus ' passengers from the remains inside the bus , '' the man said , and wara cringed .
she closed her eyes tightly , refusing to allow her imagination to get ahead of the conversation in whether noah had been one of those burned figures trapped inside the vehicle .
verifying the identity of these bodies took until yesterday .
the first day we found one of franco salazar 's assistants several hundred meters uphill from where the bus came to rest .
she had already passed away from severe trauma .
the other two missing bodies were not found until yesterday around six p.m. , when the volunteers were just about to go home for the day .
we had been combing the area for two days , but it was n't until we reached a spot nearly a kilometer away from the bus ' exit point from the highway that we found both of them .
obviously they had been thrown from the bus while it was still pretty high up the mountain , to have landed so far away .
one of the men had been dead since approximately early monday morning , according to the autopsy , but the autopsy of the other man , your son , showed that he had passed away about twelve hours before we found the body .
they just called me with the autopsy results . ''
wara 's whole body shook and she pressed her fingers into her forehead .
there was a deathly silence , and then mr. hearst 's indignant voice gasped , are you saying that for twenty four , no for nearly a day and a half after that accident , our son was alive down there in the jungle ? ''
yes , sir , that is what the autopsy report showed , '' hector reported , stiffening as if just now realizing that the giant man in front of him was simmering with rage .
b..b..but you 're saying that because your 'search and rescue ' team did n't find him sooner , our son died ?
he was alive for nearly two days !
if you had been more competent and found him sooner , he would still be alive ! ''
no , sir , i can assure you ? ''
hector 's voice trailed off and he sighed .
i was there when we found him .
there were too many broken bones . ''
wara moaned and slumped forward in the chair , feeling hot tears slipping through her fingers .
a death filled scene flooded her vision noah , bloodied and broken , lying on the cold jungle floor in the dark , unable to move , with no one to help him .
he had died all alone .
but then a different picture swallowed that one up .
noah , lying on his back , in the middle of an emerald forest clearing , staring up at the tropical birds and butterflies flitting around the peaceful sanctuary .
he could n't get up , but he was singing , quietly , and the songs he sang were only between him and his god , on his way to meet him .
wara forced herself to swallow , then straightened in the chair .
the last scene of noah in the jungle was one she could live with .
a man had started speaking from somewhere in the room , inviting people to come take seats on the folding chairs .
gripping the edges of the chair with both hands to steady herself , wara rose to her feet , ready to sing a last song for noah hearst .
many people went up front to talk about noah , including the bolivian pastor of noah 's church .
the bennesons sat up front , along with the rest of the people from the mission .
dona filomena was there , wearing a dark pollera and cardigan with her signature gray braids .
even tiago showed up , nearly unrecognizable in black dress pants , a starched white dress shirt , and red weepy eyes .
wara sat numbly through it all .
eventually she realized that someone had asked her to come up and sing , and she made her way towards a folding chair off to the side , tripping once and nearly planting her face into the floor before she caught herself , grabbing another chair .
barely noticing her near accident , wara sat down and pulled the guitar that was propped next to the chair onto her lap .
her fingers curled tightly around the neck , metal strings biting into her flesh .
it was noah 's honey colored taylor .
they had brought it from the caf .
wara bit her lip , then strummed a chord .
the guitar was perfectly tuned .
she started a song she knew by the band mercy me , that began talking about how everyone says you '' are in a better place .
as the chords vibrated out of the taylor , she moved on to the chorus , singing what may have been the truest thing she had said all day i 've never been more homesick than now .
i close my eyes , and i see your face , if home 's where my heart is then i 'm out of place , lord , wo n't you give me strength to make it through somehow , i 've never been more homesick than now . ''
her fingers fell across the strings one last time , sounding the last open ended chord , and then she rested her forehead on the smooth wood of noah 's guitar .
after a moment , without looking at the many faces who had gathered here to remember her best friend , wara forced herself to put the guitar back in its place .
what she really wanted to do was sling the black guitar strap over her shoulder and walk away , never looking back .
eduardo was coming up front to sing something , however , and she knew he would need the guitar .
wara somehow managed to make it to an empty chair .
if home 's where my heart is , then i 'm out of place . ''
the chorus she had just sung rang in her head , even as eduardo and tobias began to sing amazing grace .
oh god , i can feel that so much right now .
why do i have to stay here any longer ?
if noah is with you , i want to be there too , at home .
i do n't think i can stay here one more minute .
leaning heavily forward against the metal back of an empty chair , wara 's sideways gaze fell upon alejo , standing in the back of the room , arms folded across his chest .
she had nearly forgotten about his existence .
his face was red and puffy , and he looked really , really miserable .
she was glad .
he should be miserable .
forever .
because thanks to alejo martir , i surely will be miserable forever .
as wara heard eduardo sing the last line of the hymn , a cold feeling crept over her chest , as if she had put on a sweater that had been sitting outside all night in a montana blizzard .
the feelings of anger she had just been tempted with were gone .
the grief seemed to be gone .
all wara could feel was ? nothing .
nothing except the desire to go home .
24 sea green everyone else had left the house , and alejo was left in the echoing entryway of some missionaries ' house .
he hunched miserably on a polished wooden chair , listening to the rhythmic tick of a clock from the kitchen off to the left .
wara lay curled up on a black leather sofa in a smaller family room , and she had n't said a word since the rest of the funeral attendees had left .
she seemed to sleeping .
one more hour and we can leave this place and get back to the motel .
alejo groaned and clunked his head against the cool plaster of the wall , envisioning red silk and painted cupids .
as if that 's going to be any better than being here .
knowing the chances were fair to good that the guys had found out about the bus victim 's funeral and would be lurking about outside , alejo had told wara they needed to wait here at the house for two hours after the rest of the people had gone .
then maybe they could sneak out with no one following .
the bennesons ' house was in an upscale neighborhood , across the street from a long , shady park .
pretty soon , alejo would call a radio taxi with dark windows to take them back to their hideous quarters .
the clock kept ticking and alejo closed his eyes , remembering the face of noah 's mother as she and her husband left with the woman from the u.s. embassy and the crew from a funeral home .
alejo had listened in enough to know that the hearsts were going to ship the body back to the united states for burial , and that the embassy was helping them with all the necessary arrangements .
wara 's haunting voice when she sang with the guitar had cut him to the heart .
he had n't been around so many christians since he was a kid , and the experience had been overwhelming .
he thought about what his father had said back at the hostal salta noah would have forgiven you .
it did n't seem realistic to imagine noah just punching him in the shoulder with a , hey man , do n't worry about it .
it 's all good .
but he was supposed to believe god would forgive him , just like that ?
another comment wara had made sometime during their last few days flashed through his mind jesus said to love your enemies . ''
that was very true jesus had even said to turn the other cheek when someone hits you .
but did that mean standing there and watching while someone hit a helpless woman or child ?
god , i need help , alejo groaned out loud .
i 'm a mess .
i do n't even know how to talk with you .
i keep thinking i need to go wash the right way before praying and prostrate myself on the ground .
but here i am , without washing , not facing the right direction , just talking to you , slouched on a chair at some gringos ' house .
i need help .
but the chances of alejo meeting someone soon who could help him figure out who he was and why were pretty slim , since he and wara were in the middle of running for their lives .
the funeral was over , and it was time for them to leave bolivia and go to alejo 's family , so they could all start their lives over .
just like that .
alejo realized that the phone was ringing somewhere in the house , one of those annoying , electric sounds that beeped through the air in waves .
it finally shut up , and alejo leaned forward in his chair to peer into the room where wara had collapsed on the couch .
she was still there , facing the wall , huddled inside the long sleeves of her black sweater .
the phone started ringing again , only seconds after it stopped , and it was annoying as heck .
when the caller rang a third time , then a fourth , alejo 's adrenaline picked up .
he rose from the chair on the balls of his feet , doing a quick sweep of vision around the windows of the house .
nothing appeared to be out of the ordinary in the empty yard .
he had already made sure all the doors of the house were locked .
when the sixth , seventh , then eighth call came in , alejo had a sinking feeling that the caller might possibly not be someone looking for the bennesons .
all the phones downstairs appeared to have been disconnected for the funeral , as the only ringing came from somewhere upstairs .
just to be on the safe side , alejo decided to answer the phone .
maybe he could just give some poor gringo directions and put an end to this .
with a last glance at wara , he bolted up the stairs , two at a time , and across a parquet wood floor to where a cordless phone was flashing on a desk .
alejo marched towards the desk and snatched up the receiver , punching the talk button .
alo ? ''
oh , good , thank goodness ! ''
the cheerful voice on the other end appeared to be speaking around a mouthful of food .
alejo , i 'm so glad you finally did me the favor of answering , che .
i was beginning to think i was going to have to come over the walls and risk getting bit in the rear by that yappy white dog in there .
those little poodle things can be quite mean . ''
alejo 's blood chilled as he recognized the voice of gabriel .
che , '' he said calmly .
where are you ? ''
alejo moved in a crouch towards a plate window overlooking the quiet cobblestone street in front of the house .
a small dog , white curls graying where its belly scraped the grass , was trotting calmly around the spacious front yard .
nothing else in sight was moving .
oh , just outside the wall , having a snack .
here , let me move a little bit , there , ok , do you see me ? ''
a pale hand waved into alejo 's line of vision from above the thick concrete wall surrounding the house , and then all of gabriel came into view , backing up farther across the road so he was n't hidden by the wall .
a cell phone was plastered to one ear , and he squinted up at the window where alejo stood .
i figured it might take you guys a while to come out , '' he said with a grin , but i really did n't feel like waiting any longer .
it took me a little bit to get this number , though . ''
how 'd you know the funeral was going to be here ? ''
alejo needed to kill time .
facebook , '' gabriel answered , matter of factly .
you would n't believe how many friends this guy had .
makes me feel kind of bad .
i only have 167 . ''
so how did you know we were in here ? ''
was only gabriel outside ?
if that were the case , a dozen ways he and wara could get out of here ran through alejo 's head .
they surely would n't be so stupid , though , as to send only gabriel over to capture him .
my thermal imaging goggles . ''
gabriel 's voice was light .
there 're all kinds of poky plants in that park across the street .
i think they never cut the grass over there .
great hiding spot .
i can see up to 1000 meters with these things , so that was plenty close enough . ''
alejo saw gabriel , down below , pointing off to the park across the street , darkened with shady trees and deep green vegetation .
anyway , i saw two people hiding on the floor of a van that drove in , and figured that was n't the usual way guests arrive at funerals .
the rest , as they say , is history . ''
so , '' gabriel continued , blithely , this is the way this is going to go down .
benjamin is over at the hotel diplomat , where the deceased 's parents are in their room right now .
there 's an empty office space right across from their big plate glass window , which has the drapes wide open , and benjamin has got all the equipment set up .
if you do n't come out with the girl and come with me , he 'll have to take the guys ' parents out . ''
alejo swore under his breath .
now that he had chickened out about killing wara , they assumed he would n't let noah 's parents die in the middle of this mess , either .
and he would n't .
i 'll come out , but i ca n't let you have wara , '' he told gabriel .
i 'll go with you and talk to the khan .
she does n't know what 's going on .
leave the parents out of this they have nothing to do with it .
what 's gotten into you guys ? ''
downstairs , something hissed , smooth wood scraping across tile .
alejo jerked , glancing out the window where gabriel was still on the street .
the sound of a door banging echoed throughout the house and alejo panicked .
wara was going outside !
the phone receiver crashed to the floor as he raced to the stairs and leaped down them , skidding at the bottom and sprinting towards the door .
metal grated and he saw that wara had already opened the door that led to the street and was walking out like a zombie .
the space between the house and the outer wall was wide , and alejo yelled , wara , shut the door ! ''
as he ran across the grass to try to reach her .
what was she doing ?
wara disappeared from view out the door , onto the street , and alejo dug up clumps of dirt racing after her .
he pulled up at the open door in the outer wall and took in gabriel and wara , several yards away from the house next to a white delivery truck , staring at each other .
gabriel seemed startled to see her , but then his eyes narrowed when he saw alejo .
wara turned around so her back was facing him , holding out her hands to what alejo saw was a pair of handcuffs in gabriel 's hands .
within two seconds , less then it would have taken for alejo to cross the space between him and his friend , gabriel had the cuffs around wara 's wrists and pushed her inside the delivery truck .
he slammed the heavy door shut with a clang , then alejo heard a beep as gabriel pushed something near the door latch .
numb , alejo started towards gabriel , unable to believe that wara had just disappeared into the truck while he just stood there .
we 're friends , che , are n't we ? ''
gabriel looked at alejo and shook his head sadly .
or at least we were .
what happened to you ? ''
his eyes flickered as if trying to read alejo 's expression , and then he sighed .
because we 're friends , you know that i have the door set to blow up if anyone but me , with the appropriate code , tries to open it .
did you hear that ? ''
gabriel called louder , banging on the metal side of the truck .
yes . ''
wara 's single word answer came flatly from inside .
then she added , do n't do anything to noah 's parents .
please . ''
i have to take you back now , che , '' gabriel told alejo , and his voice was really pained .
if we 're not there in another hour , benjamin gets to do his little op .
so do n't try anything on the way , ok ?
do i have to cuff you so you 're not tempted ?
i know you could take me out like a fly . ''
let 's go , '' alejo ground out , stalking to the passenger side of the truck and ripping open the door .
he slid inside and closed it , waiting for gabriel to come around and stick the key in the ignition .
without a word , gabriel revved up the truck , guided it around the corners of the peaceful neighborhood , then circled a round about to merge onto a main avenue .
i did n't want to leave all of you , che . ''
alejo decided to start the conversation .
there was probably not much time until they got to wherever the khan and the rest had hidden themselves , and there was so much he wanted to say .
i always did what i believed was the right thing , what god would want .
so have you .
well this time , i could n't let her die . ''
alejo knew gabriel understood who he was talking about .
it was an accident that she was there .
the right thing was to let her live . ''
that 's where i think you are wrong , '' gabriel stated firmly .
when we were up there , i told you there could be people on site who were unrelated to salazar , and you said , and i quote , 'then let them be collateral . '
unquote . ''
gabriel cleared his throat and jerked the steering wheel to the right , leading them along a less traveled road towards the outskirts of town .
i kind of freaked out a little , too at the idea of slitting her throat not a pleasant idea for me , you understand .
but there was no other acceptable option , che !
you know what you 've done . ''
gabriel 's voice turned dark and alejo saw that he was gripping the wheel with white knuckles .
she knows everything .
if she 's not dead , she 'll tell .
we do n't even know if you have already tattled and gotten us in a heap of trouble . ''
i do n't want all of you to get into trouble , '' alejo said quietly .
yeah , well , then you should have not let your emotions get away with you and let ishmael take care of her .
now he 's mad as a hornet .
he ca n't trust you and you 're the most important cog in the prism in the continent !
i do n't even think i could trust you anymore . ''
gabriel turned his eyes on alejo for a moment , and they flashed the anger of betrayal .
gabo , there 's a lot i have to tell you , and since this seems like it could be my last chance , knowing the khan , let me talk , ok ? ''
alejo sank back into the vinyl of the seat and waved one hand as he said , i assume you still remember our trip to the tribal area ?
all the bolivian guys , huddled up there near the skirmish zone ? ''
yeah , '' gabriel nodded , with all that ?
happened before i came home from pakistan , we never really talked about that .
i thought it was amazing , so many guys ready to follow god . ''
well i thought it was just plain wrong .
the khan is offering these poor guys scholarships to study , and then they 're just being used as fodder for religious wars .
they 're being blown to pieces , and their families will never even know where they went !
allah loves the poor , so do n't you think it 's wrong to offer the poor a version of islam that will only get them fired up so that someone can send them off to be mujahedeen ? ''
gabriel frowned , opened his mouth , then snapped it shut .
finally he said , i ca n't criticize the men who know a whole lot more about our religion and pleasing god than i do , che .
besides , what could be more pleasing to god then doing what those poor guys from the countryside are doing ?
if they stayed here , they 'd live out their lives in poverty , never making a difference at all , not knowing god .
but now they 're getting a chance to make their lives really count .
god 's going to reward them for that .
what 's the big deal if they die ?
they 're going to paradise . ''
alejo glanced sharply at his friend and then back at the road .
well , i ca n't just accept what others tell me about religion , because i 'm responsible to god for what i do .
me .
the last few months i 've been reading the bible , and i 've decided it 's not corrupted .
i 'm going to live like what it says is true , and that means following the teachings of jesus . ''
gabriel hit a pothole in the worn gravel road they were following and swore , not even looking at alejo .
you ca n't do that . ''
i am , '' alejo said evenly .
if you believe all those books say , you are not a muslim anymore , '' gabriel sighed .
adobe brick houses with scrawny chickens pecking the grass outside passed by the window , and overhead the truck was shaded by rows and rows of eucalyptus trees , lacy branches swaying in the wind .
gabriel shook his head and then drilled alejo with a serious stare .
you 're an apostate ? ''
alejo exhaled and leaned his head back into the seat .
listen , che , you are like a brother to me .
i wanted to tell you , but i knew if i said too much i 'd get kicked out of the prism and i might never see you again gabriel bit his lip and looked over at alejo , annoyed .
che , i 've heard all this christian stuff before , ok ?
i do n't need some man who made the insane claim that he was god to bring me close to god .
that 's blasphemy , anyway i ca n't believe you would even ? whatever . ''
gabriel wrinkled his nose , then said , the quran tells us everything we need to please god .
and i 've been doing it all .
we are the best of the best , che .
why would we need some person to take away our sins ?
we are serving allah every day .
we 're not unbelievers who do n't follow his laws .
he 's got to accept me . ''
alejo 's heart felt heavy as he heard the last statement come out as an unsure hope .
a picture flashed through his mind of gabriel and himself , lounging lazily on some park bench in the plaza on a sunny coroico afternoon , licking mocha ice cream cones and grinning at the little quechua girls who sang for coins in their red plastic buckets .
alejo was going to lose one of his best friends .
the chances of alejo surviving this next encounter with the khan were slim .
would he ever see gabriel again ?
alejo 's head buzzed , and his throat tightened as he turned to stare at the cows and tall white grass whizzing by outside the van .
gabriel was silent , then jerked the steering wheel hard to the right , veering the delivery truck off the gravel road onto a narrower dirt path under a thick canopy of lacy trees .
alejo knew where they were pairumani , a country estate that had belonged to simon patio .
patio had been one of the wealthiest men in the world during world war ii , making his fortune through tin .
this house and its gardens and lands were his retreat from his mansion in cochabamba .
farther along the path , a low waterfall gurgled along the edge of the road , running over mossy boulders .
the tree canopy suddenly dropped away , opening up to the breathtaking sight of a spacious field under a sapphire blue sky , white fluffy stalks of wild grain waving in the gentle breeze .
towering over the crops , two stately rows of ponderous palm trees lined a neat dirt road against a backdrop of mountain peaks , right up to an ornate metal gate that was the entrance to the pairumani estate .
alejo raised an eyebrow at his friend , who only turned the truck towards the gate , frowning unhappily .
when alejo had visited this place once before , the fields had been dotted with various volunteer students working on experimental agricultural projects sponsored by patio 's charitable foundation .
a few mornings a week , the caretakers of pairumani opened its gates , with permission from the patio family who now lived outside bolivia , for tourists to visit the beautiful grounds .
now no one was in sight .
the fields were empty and seemingly overgrown and abandoned no uniformed guard waited near the gate .
wait ? there is a guard here .
inhaling sharply , alejo recognized those glinting eyes , malicious when they needed to be .
sauntering over to open the gate , dressed in the olive uniform of a private security guard , was benjamin torres .
what have you guys done ? ''
alejo raised an eyebrow , bracing himself as gabriel floored the accelerator and the truck raced inside the gate .
oh , no one uses this place anymore , '' gabriel shrugged .
they have n't worked on those agricultural projects here in a couple of years , and the patio family is n't scheduled to come stay here for two more months .
you know the khan always likes to stay in style .
it was either this or some dumpy hostel .
believe me , this is better . ''
gabriel glanced in the rearview mirror as benjamin shut the gate .
looks like benjamin is back .
he made good time . ''
the guards ? ''
alejo was peering out the window , looking for any sign of the rest of his team .
they 're fine , '' gabriel waved away his concern .
there were only three , and they 're tied up in a nice cozy room .
we bring them food .
they did n't see our faces , so after a few more days we 'll let them go and they 'll chalk it up to armed robbery .
we 'll take a few little treasures with us to make it look authentic . ''
alejo sighed and put one hand on the door , really anxious to get out of the car .
his mind raced back to wara , still handcuffed in the back of the truck , and he tried to think how he was going to get her out of this mess ? again .
he deserved to be here after all , he had broken the rules and it was only fair to have to pay .
panic wanted to mess with his head , however , about wara .
alejo tapped his foot compulsively against the floor of the truck , waiting for gabriel to park .
benjamin had latched the gate behind them , and he and stalin stared solemnly at the truck as it drove slowly across the manicured lawn .
alejo 's visions of gaining the advantage through his fighting skills died down as he saw what benjamin and stalin gripped casually by their sides .
two silver guns with silencers , glinting in the afternoon sun .
alejo 's shoulders tensed and he waited as gabriel parked the truck in a cluster of a pomegranate trees .
how did everything come to this ?
a few months ago the khan loaded me with presents and i was an honored guest in his house .
last thursday , the guys and i were eating brownies in the caf together , ready for another day at work .
images of the thousands of times alejo had prostrated himself to allah on the ground , barefoot , filled his mind , and he found his heart repeating the prayer , you are great , lord , you are great .
please let me honor you , oh god .
he heard gabriel yank the key out of the ignition and saw him reach for the door .
his friend hesitated , then turned to alejo with a pained look in his eyes .
i shot wara back along the road , ok ?
in a little while , i 'm going to have to take this truck out again .
ok , che ?
she can get out and run away . ''
alejo could n't help himself .
he grabbed gabriel 's skinny shoulders and pulled him into one of the manly bear hugs that only true latino men can share , then let him go .
reaching back to rip open the tiny sliding door between the back of the truck and the cab , alejo said , wara !
do n't make any noise , ok ?
you 're gon na be alright . ''
then he pushed the little door closed and climbed out of the truck to whatever was waiting for him .
stalin and benjamin were standing behind the truck , weapons obviously loaded and pointed casually in alejo 's direction .
neither of them looked particularly happy in fact , stalin looked downright miserable .
alejo nodded in greeting , then looked beyond them to where ishmael khan was waiting , sitting on a bronze colored bench in the center of the garden , shaded by a lilac flowering tree .
the rest of the neatly trimmed lawn was dotted with giant bushes that were trimmed to be absolutely round in form , like ridiculous sea green pincushions .
behind the front yard , the imposing country house rose to the sky , painted cream with an opaque golden trim , windows framed by intricate colonial plaster designs .
a stone path began near the house , leading to a shimmering pond with emerald waters and a circular wooden hut with thatched roof in the center of the pool .
stately snow white swans glided on the surface of the water , skimming the scales of mammoth orange goldfish .
the khan was calmly flipping through a book , which alejo recognized as his bible .
of course ishmael had found it in alejo 's tent .
in light of alejo disappearing with wara , the bible must have only given the khan one more clue as to the reason for alejo 's desertion .
and the american ? ''
benjamin 's eyebrows were raised at gabriel .
gabriel waved away his concern and put one hand on his hip , crossly .
if the khan wanted her here you should have told me beforehand , because it 's a little late now .
she 's in lake alalay with a couple holes in her head . ''
i told you it was n't about her , '' benjamin said to stalin , shooting an amused glance at alejo .
there 's something else going on here besides just a sudden case of true love .
he does n't seem to be too disturbed that she 's dead . ''
stalin sighed , glumly , and alejo felt bad for him .
he wants to talk to you . ''
stalin jutted his chin in the direction of the bench where the pashto man sat , and gripped his gun tightly , still pointing it at alejo .
then , quieter , he hissed , how could you do this , che ?
of course you know what you 've done ? ''
alejo saw benjamin shake his head , face unreadable as usual , hand pointing the gun steady .
so , you left the gringo couple alone ? ''
alejo asked calmly , meeting his eyes .
as promised , '' benjamin 's mouth tipped up in a dry smile .
that would n't have been an extremely pleasant experience for me .
you 're the one who 's in trouble . ''
gabriel 's voice cheerily interrupted them .
i 'm coming in a sec , guys .
i 've got ta get my gun out of the truck . ''
thank god he said he 'll let her go .
alejo let stalin and benjamin frame him and walk him towards ishmael khan .
he kept up the quick pace gladly , because every step took them farther away from the white truck that held wara .
what about lzaro ? ''
he asked .
have n't seen him around . ''
he asked for time off , '' stalin said tightly .
he would n't admit it , but this whole thing had him upset .
she being his old girlfriend and all .
you 're an idiot to do this to us , you know that , che ? ''
stalin continued , whispering , sweat trickling down his temple .
you compromised everything . ''
then he fell silent as the three of them pulled up in front of ishmael khan , waiting with the bible across one knee and a gun and silencer resting on the other .
25 crimson wara was trying to muster the will to raise herself from sprawled on the truck floor in handcuffs to sitting , when a little window at the front of the truck slid open with a whoosh .
do n't move , wara , '' alejo 's voice ordered .
you 're gon na be alright . ''
then , just as quickly , the little door closed again , followed by two slamming vibrations of the truck as gabriel and alejo apparently left it and shut the doors .
her mouth was left hanging open , never having the chance to respond to alejo 's hurried instructions .
his words rang in her head and she let her mouth snap shut , trying to relax and not make a sound from where she lay sideways , arms twisted behind her in the cuffs .
wara could make out the sound of male voices outside , but they were muted and the sound did n't carry well through the metal truck .
she ignored the burning in her arms , watching the dented white metal door .
she expected the men to come bursting in any second , this time to kill her for sure .
the truth was , at the moment the whole idea did n't scare her as it should .
wara had just come from noah 's funeral , where she had seen his parents weeping over his coffin she was too numb to resist .
the voices died away , followed by a few electronic beeps .
something that sounded like rusting metal scraped painfully across both of the doors , and then a crack of daylight breached the darkened interior of the truck .
squinting , wara made out gabriel 's narrow face , framed by a halo of light .
he climbed into the truck , pulled the door mostly closed behind him and marched towards wara .
she cringed , but gabriel just squatted on the truck bed next to her and put a finger to his lips .
ssssshhhhh ! ''
he cautioned , throwing her a warning look .
then the bombshell i 'm letting you go . ''
immediately on his feet again , gabriel strode to the back of the truck and grabbed a black duffel bag , which he unzipped .
wara blinked at him , wondering if he was serious .
she twisted her head to follow gabriel 's movement and then froze as she saw him yank a gun out of the bag .
hands steady , he lifted a handful of oblong bullets from one pant pocket and began stuffing them into the gun .
i ca n't believe i 'm doing this , '' he muttered , then whirled the gun 's chamber shut .
gabriel bent down next to her again , glanced at the truck door , then whispered crossly , i told them i already killed you , so do n't make any noise unless you want me and of course , you to be blown away like poor alejo is about to be . ''
wara 's head spun and unexplained panic filled her chest .
i 'll be back pretty soon , i assume .
when we come back , hide under those tarps over there if you want to live .
i have to leave the door open or they might suspect . ''
he grabbed wara 's wrists and unlocked her handcuffs .
th thank you , '' she stammered .
gabriel looked down at her from where he stood , face slick with sweat .
do n't thank me .
alejo is in charge , but i 'm the one who put the explosives on the bus .
alejo does n't know how to do that stuff . ''
lifting his chin , gabriel turned his back on her and stomped back to the door of the truck , causing the whole vehicle to sway .
wara felt sick , watching him go out of the corner of her eye .
gabriel left only a small crack of light shining into the truck , and with the doors no longer tightly sealed , she could make out the voices from outside , louder and more intense .
wara crawled at a snail 's pace over to the crack of light and pressed her nose gingerly against it , trying to judge how far away she was from the other men .
the truck seemed to be parked under a bunch of trees , and through the leafy branches she could make out a group of four men standing maybe fifty feet away .
she recognized the three with guns from before stalin , benjamin , and gabriel , who had just shocked her by saying he was not going to kill her .
lzaro was nowhere in sight .
alejo , in the center of them all , was the target of all of the guns ' aim .
sitting peacefully on a bench in the beautiful garden of pairumani sat the older guy with salt and pepper hair , wearing a navy cardigan sweater and pressed khaki pants , like the perfect gentleman .
what are we doing at pairumani ?
are n't there any tourists around ?
she had been here a few times on the weekend with friends , once with noah .
the little wara could see of the pristine garden surrounding the mansion was empty , except for the small group of muslim men .
she realized that she felt relief the martirs were out of the country , away from all this danger .
but then her joy tempered as she thought , if they kill alejo , who will make sure these guys do n't find nazaret 's family ?
wara blinked and everything in front of her shimmered .
god , are they really going to kill him ?
her hands shook and she kept them away from the open door , eyes glued to the scene unfolding outside .
the man with the grandfather face ishmael was speaking accented spanish .
stalin has been trying to tell me that this was a case of youthful indiscretion , that you were attracted to this girl ? ''
alejo shrugged , appearing no more concerned then if they were discussing what color to paint the foyer .
it could have been true , but that 's not what happened . ''
his strong voice carried across the garden .
i just did n't think it was right to kill her when god obviously let her survive .
it was n't what god wanted .
i caused something , and i 'm willing to pay the penalty for it .
i had to do what 's right and try to help her . ''
well , now that 's all useless anyway , since the end result is that she is dead and the rest of us have all been quite inconvenienced .
ah , alejo ! ''
ishmael 's voice sounded sad and he stood up , walking to stand directly in front of nazaret 's brother .
wara saw that the flash of metal in ishmael 's hand was a gun .
you were a nephew to me , my own family !
i took you in ? ''
the older man 's voice cut off as he glanced away , dramatically .
in my life i have seen so much betrayal , so many that i could not trust .
how can i stand this , that i ca n't even trust you , who have been like my own nephew ?
you must tell me the truth , son . ''
ishmael sighed audibly .
have you really betrayed us ?
have you told others about the prism ?
about my work ? ''
i have n't told anyone anything the least bit useful to them at all , ishmael , '' alejo replied calmly , as if trying to reason with the other men .
you are all like family to me .
i do n't want anything to happen to any of you .
all i did was try to take the girl away so you would n't kill her .
i simply saw a situation where i had to do what i thought was right . ''
this seemed to make ishmael very happy , and he raised both arms in the air , a smile plastered on his face .
excellent !
i do n't know why i should believe you , but i have known you since you were almost a child , alejo .
i believe you .
so then , even now , we could talk , we could find a way to bring you back .
you know all the ways of islam .
allah will forgive you . ''
then gabriel stepped forward , both hands steadying the gun wara had seen him take from the truck .
his pale face was twisted but his eyes narrowed with determination .
he 's an apostate , ishmael .
he told me himself .
he ca n't come back . ''
the change was astonishing .
wara watched as ishmael 's face crumpled , then darkened , until he was left glaring at alejo with fury .
whirling around , he grabbed an object from a bench nearby and the sound of ripping pages knifed through the air .
a book .
wara squinted to see better , then realized it was the same arabic bible she had seen in alejo 's tent that night .
the onion skin pages were fluttering to the grass , torn by ishmael 's furious hand .
is that necessary ? ''
alejo asked grimly .
you would destroy a book that even the quran calls holy ? ''
ishmael tossed the destroyed book over his shoulder and glowered at alejo , breathing heavily .
when i heard you say you did n't mean us any harm , i assumed that my suspicions about you leaving our religion could n't be true .
we found this in your tent , but i told the others that it could n't mean anything . ''
the older man 's voice was hurt and angry .
i wo n't believe it until i hear it from your own lips .
are you a christian ? ''
i believe jesus is the son of god , the savior , '' alejo said .
stalin looked up at the sky , as if in defeat , and benjamin shook his head .
gabriel kept his grip tightly on his gun , staring at alejo , pallid .
ishmael khan took three clipped steps forward and rammed the gun he held against alejo 's forehead with an echoing click .
even with this betrayal , i wanted to take you back , alejo martir .
say the word , and i 'll take you back again , to be one of us .
say you will leave this blasphemy , that god has a son .
say you will return to islam and no longer follow jesus . ''
alejo looked back at him for a moment and then loudly said , no . ''
wara had never seen one moment pass so quickly .
alejo was on the ground seemingly before the shot even roared .
wara stared in horror at the sickly crimson mist that hung over his body , crumpled on the grass .
ishmael had n't even had time to lower the gun , and alejo was gone .
oh no , oh no , oh no ! ''
wara looked one way , then the other , whispering frantically .
she forced herself to focus on the scene outside again .
alejo martir was still sprawled on grass that was a deep crimson .
he was dead .
she had seen a man die .
and they are coming back here , to the truck , with his body .
that next thought beat urgently against her dazed brain , and she tried to focus .
gabriel and stalin were pulling alejo onto a gray wool blanket .
ishmael khan wandered off towards a more shaded part of the garden .
gabriel and stalin began to haul the blanket slowly across the grass towards the truck .
something foul tickled the back of wara 's throat and she choked down the urge to gag .
feeling faint , she crawled in slow motion under the canvas tarps gabriel had pointed out and tried not to move .
but she was shaking .
with every breath she felt like she was making the whole truck tremble .
the truck doors clanged open and someone grunted as the truck swayed .
they were going to put his body in here .
with her .
stalin 's voice echoed around her , crackly and breaking .
i ca n't believe this .
how could he be so stupid ?
i do n't think i can do this . ''
the worst is over , '' gabriel said , sounding quite sick as well .
it 's our job .
we just do what we have to do , stalin . ''
it 's alejo ! ''
stalin hissed , tone suggesting he wanted to yell .
wara heard a fist slam against the inside wall of the truck near the door .
the floor bounced as they stepped to the ground and both doors slammed shut , leaving the truck 's interior in utter darkness .
the sound of the two voices moved around the front of the truck , obviously still in heated discussion , and then the muffled sound of a door shutting and the truck roared to life .
gabriel , or whoever was at the wheel , was driving like a bat out of hell , nearly throwing wara into the corner of the truck every time they took a skidding turn .
she supposed they were driving away to get rid of the body , and the thought was horrible .
she had n't liked alejo much , but he was nazaret 's brother .
somehow , in the middle of all this mess , he had saved her life .
her stomach churned , complicated by the wild motion of the delivery truck .
she kicked the heavy tarps off her body , desperate for fresh air .
it was really dark inside the truck , and that was probably a good thing , because the thought of looking over and seeing alejo covered in blood next to her was terrifying .
but finally she could n't resist .
she slowly turned her head to one side and made out a still form next to her .
very , very still .
they had left him there on his stomach , eyes staring at her in the darkness .
his curly hair was wet and sticky and blood splattered over one ear and ran down his chin to pool on the wool blanket .
she shivered and turned her eyes back to the darkened ceiling , breathing deeply .
the sound of her gasping breaths echoed in slow motion around the interior of the truck , slow and rasping .
then wara 's skin crawled as she heard a low moan , and the tickle of breath across her cheek sent her scrambling into the corner , arms wrapped around her knees .
was someone else here ?
the shallow breathing continued , shuddering in slow puffs of air around the truck , and wara knew it was n't hers .
she was holding her breath , heart in her throat .
the truth came to her all of a sudden and she crashed forward onto her knees , palms spread out on alejo 's back .
his shoulder blades shifted upwards , then fell .
he was breathing .
she waited for what seemed like an eternity until alejo 's back rose and fell again , a rasping , choking sound that sent millipedes racing up her back .
he 's still alive .
wara threw herself down on her stomach next to alejo and whispered , can you hear me ? ''
no answer .
she forced herself to feel for the wound on his head , but could n't find any place where blood seemed to be spurting , nowhere that she could put pressure on the stop the bleeding .
alejo , can you hear me ?
it 's wara ! ''
she was confused to find that she was crying .
how could alejo have survived that ?
i saw him shot point blank in the head !
she had to tell the guys up front .
alejo needed a hospital .
wara paused , imagining herself kicking the wall of the truck 's cab like a madwoman to get gabriel 's attention .
stalin does n't know i 'm alive back here , and i do n't know how badly he wants me dead .
and if either of them finds out alejo is alive , they could come back here and just finish the job .
sweat pricked wara 's armpits .
the vehicle spun to a skidding stop and two doors slammed .
wara braced herself next to alejo , waiting like a deer caught in the headlights for the truck doors to open .
time was up for any kind of decision they were coming back here .
a scraping of metal , then the truck filled with shafts of light , filtered through shadowy eucalyptus branches waving over the truck outside .
wara saw that they were stopped near the side of the road , still in the countryside .
the two guys peered into the truck , expressions grim .
he 's still alive ! ''
wara blurted out , holding out a hand towards alejo and realizing it was smeared with blood .
she scrubbed her hand frantically on her black pants .
he 's your friend !
take him to the hospital .
there 's still time ! ''
gabriel regarded alejo with pinched lips stalin 's mouth gaped open , taking in first alejo lying there , then wara next to him .
i told stalin that you were back here , '' gabriel clipped .
he 's a nice guy anyway , kind of a pushover .
i thought maybe he would help me .
he noticed that alejo was still alive on the ground at pairumani . ''
thank god he 's still ? we 've got to hurry , wara . ''
stalin 's voice was heavy .
we 're taking him to univalle hospital it 's close to the lake where we 're supposedly leaving him , and then the khan is waiting for us at the airport .
we 've got to hurry , or he 'll suspect .
and it 'll be too late . ''
stalin blanched and turned away from the sight of his friend covered in blood .
wara . ''
gabriel snapped his long fingers , calling her attention back .
when we get to univalle , we ca n't stay .
we 're going to drop him and you and get away as fast as we can .
you 've got to run , ok ?
invent something to tell the doctors , but do n't tell them the truth .
if you tell anyone about us , the authorities and media will find out .
and if they find out , the khan and everyone else will know you and alejo are not dead .
you understand . ''
gabriel had been speaking quickly but concisely .
he suddenly slowed down and his shoulder sagged .
please help him .
he did this for you . ''
gabriel waved his hand unsteadily at alejo 's lifeless form , then looked back at wara once more with tortured eyes .
hurry up ! ''
stalin said loudly , and then slammed one of the doors .
the other reverberated like thunder as it too was shut heavily , and then footsteps running on gravel sounded outside .
with a gentle jerk , the truck sprinted back into motion , towards cochabamba and life for alejo .
an eternal fifteen minutes or so dragged by as wara braced herself in the pitch darkness , trying not to be thrown on top of alejo by the urgent driving maneuvers of his friends .
she left a palm on alejo 's back .
finally , the delivery truck careened around a last corner and came to a screeching halt , causing wara to bang a shoulder against the metal side .
running footsteps , and then the doors to the truck were opened , letting in florescent light from an overhead street lamp .
the sun had already disappeared , and the sky was deep blue .
univalle , '' stalin 's scratchy voice said , face etched with stress .
he and gabriel leaped into the truck and began to carefully pull the blanket with alejo 's prostrate form towards the door .
still breathing ? ''
stalin asked wara .
she nodded and scrambled up after them , leaping out onto what she saw was the sidewalk of the hospital .
she had heard of this university teaching hospital , located near the poorer south of the city .
five tan , modern looking stories rose out of an adobe house neighborhood , and the truck had stopped right in front of the main entrance .
no one was visible at this time of night , but a guard shack just inside the entrance told wara that someone might soon appear to see what was going on in front of the hospital .
gabriel and stalin heaved alejo and blanket to the ground as gently as they could , then whirled to face wara .
go with god , '' stalin muttered , covering his eyes with his hands .
then he dashed to the passenger side of the truck .
gabriel was already half in the driver 's side , but leaned back to whisper , go !
run ! ''
the truck pealed away in a cloud of dust , rounding the corner at the end of the short street at break neck speed .
alejo 's ribcage rose shakily , then he gagged and shuddered into the wool blanket .
here in the dim street light , wara could see the blood already starting to dry , plastered along one cheek , matting his hair .
his eyes had closed .
a hospital guard in a navy uniform stepped questioningly toward her from the shack , eyeing the form on the ground .
wara ran .
please , help me ! ''
she cried to the guard , then ran past him into the near empty waiting room where she saw a door with large red letters emergencias .
help , somebody help , please ! ''
yelling to anyone in sight , wara pleaded for help for the man who had caused noah 's funeral .
26 pale blue the pillow beneath her head was prickly with feathers , the pale blue cotton blanket meant to be soft and comforting .
but wara shivered on the narrow hospital bed all night , sleeping barely a wink between nocturnal nurse visits and the constant beeping of the blood pressure machine .
alejo was alive .
he was lying nearly motionless on the other bed in the hospital room , chest faintly rising and falling under a matching pale blue blanket .
a thick ream of gauze was plastered around his head , covering the wound where the doctors claimed the bullet had narrowly missed his brain .
but that was impossible wara had seen the gun pressed point blank against the center of alejo 's forehead , then fire .
he should n't be alive .
and he might not be for much longer .
for now your fianc is stable , but in a coma , '' dr. ortega had told her seriously last night , wadding used latex gloves in the pocket of his lab coat after emerging from the emergency room .
remembering gabriel 's ominous words of warning not to let anyone find out she and alejo were still alive , wara had told the doctor she was engaged to the man who 'd been shot in the head .
they were tourists here from the u.s. , and had been robbed at gunpoint in the country near pairumani .
dr. ortega looked at her over gold rimmed glasses and rubbed the bridge of his nose with thick , hairy fingers .
we 're not out of the woods , yet , by any means .
the bullet 's shock waves could have serious repercussions .
i 'm going to be honest with you .
if your fianc would need brain surgery , there 's no way we can do it here .
an airlift to chile or argentina would take too long .
stay with him tonight in the extra bed in the room if he 's going to pull through we should know by the morning . ''
and now it was morning crisp white light filtered in through the blue checked curtains of the hospital room .
a matronly nurse in a tri cornered hat and thick stockings was shoving a glass thermometer under alejo 's tongue and smoothing the covers over his shoulders .
as if he would have been able to mess them up somehow nazaret 's brother was as motionless as he had been sprawled there on the ground at pairumani .
but he 's still alive .
dr. ortega had said that if alejo made it til the morning , his chances were better .
wara sat up groggily on the bed and turned toward him , eyes stinging as she took in the bloodied bandage above one closed eye .
i have to call the martirs , she realized .
the idea brought a new chill of shock .
how could she tell them what had happened , that the son they had just found as a killer had been shot and could die ?
and that she had seen the whole thing ?
feeling sick , wara ignored the matronly nurse with clogs and staggered wordlessly into the hall .
clean white tiles spread before her , and the air was ripe with the scent of clorox and chamomile tea cooling on breakfast trays .
wara stumbled to the silver elevator and punched a button to head down , desperate to get some fresh air .
in the pocket of her black pants , she fingered the fat wad of boliviano bills she had removed from alejo 's pants before the nurses carried him into the emergency room .
it should be enough to last for awhile for sure it was enough to make a call to the martirs ' cell phone in lima .
the doors dinged open on the main floor , but as soon as wara 's eyes hit the lobby she nearly doubled over , remembering the scene last night when she ran across the tiles screaming for help .
without stopping , wara did a one eighty and headed down the hall , towards the back of the hospital and away from the lobby .
plastic olive chairs lined the scuffed walls , filled with women in polleras and children licking suckers .
wara eyed them all blankly , forcing herself to put one foot in front of the other , really hoping there was going to be a back exit to this hospital .
and outside the exit , some quiet , grass covered spot where she could curl up and wail , possibly until next week .
it was still early the call to the martirs was going to have to wait just a little bit more .
the creaky voice calling to her in quechua took her totally unaware .
imajnaya kasanki ?
how are you , wara ? ''
wara planted her flip flops in the center of the hall and whirled around , eyes wild .
who knew her here ?
she was supposed to be dead .
the navy cardigan sweater and thin gray braids were nothing out of the ordinary in this row of quechua women awaiting the doctor , but the crinkled black eyes regarding wara immediately flashed familiar .
doa filomena , the elderly lady who worked at caf amara !
wara felt her shoulders slump with relief and she took the few faltering steps over towards the older woman , overwhelmed to see someone from her old life .
her old life , before the trip to coroico , before disaster .
wara slowly leaned forward to grasp doa filomena 's forearm , mumbling the usual quechua greeting .
the woman smiled , dispersing a legion of crow 's feet across her copper cheeks .
i have been needing to have some tests done for a while , '' she was saying in quechua , and since the caf is closed today i am taking advantage of the time . ''
wara swallowed hard .
caf amara , vestiges of another dimension .
the caf is closed ? ''
she repeated .
her voice faded to a whisper as she asked , why ? ''
you do n't know ? ''
doa filomena 's rheumy eyes flickered , then she cocked her head to one side .
of course you know !
they said you were on the bus as well , that bus that had the accident .
this whole week we prayed for you , and that boy .
we prayed for you so much .
what am i thinking , how could i forget that !
they said that you had been found and that you were all right .
but then yesterday i went to work , to peel potatoes and make the humintas , and they said that the caf was closed until next week , because they found that poor boy had died and gone to glory . ''
wara 's words stuck in her throat .
i ca n't talk about noah , or i 'm going to throw myself into her arms and cry .
her knees trembled beneath her .
and then she heard herself say something she never would have expected .
doa filomena , can you please pray for another friend of mine ? ''
the word 'friend ' was spoken rather tightly .
he was shot in the head .
the doctors think he might not live . ''
oh , that is serious ! ''
doa filomena shook her head slowly , thin gray braids scratching her worn sweater .
we must pray for this poor boy , too .
sometimes , when i am not working , i come here to the hospital to pray for people .
and if i can not come , i will remember to pray for your friend at church . ''
wara felt some kind of relief that filomena would probably be waving her hands around and praying for alejo , because right now , she could n't .
all she could do was sit there and watch him , to see if he would live or die .
fighting back the bitterness stinging her throat , wara said goodbye to doa filomena and made a beeline for the back door of the hospital .
an ample concrete square shaded by a balcony preceded the hospital 's delivery area , currently completely empty .
filomena 's words echoed through wara 's head they found out that poor boy had died and gone to glory . ''
barely stifling a cry of grief , wara flopped to the ground behind a huge clay planter and curled into a ball .
sometime in the afternoon , wara forced herself up from the ground .
she wandered the dusty neighborhood and called the martirs on the brand new cell phone alejo had bought for them .
she could n't call them on her own new cell phone , because the thing only worked for local calls .
by the time she left the viva call center across from univalle , dusk had darkened to full blown night .
few people passed the hospital on the unlit sidewalks .
wara sighed deeply and headed across the street to the hospital , resigned to spend one last night here before joining the martirs in lima .
yes , she felt bad for alejo he was up there all alone , life hanging in the balance .
but he was n't hers to care for , not by a long shot .
she needed some time , needed to be close to people she actually liked .
the roll of red boliviano bills she had pilfered from alejo were more than enough to make it to lima .
with her dark coloring , she 'd likely make it across the border on the bus without showing id .
she had also called her parents again from the call center , and they would wire money to lima for her and arrange for a plane ticket back to the u.s. home .
but not really .
this had been her home .
i loved this city .
i never wanted to leave .
but now cochabamba seemed full of unknown stalkers and haunted memories .
for the first time since she arrived in bolivia five years ago , wara wanted to go home .
chest still tight with emotion , wara exited the elevator upstairs and turned towards the room she shared with comatose alejo .
the halls were dim and empty and a faint , urgent beeping drilled the walls .
from the direction of alejo 's room .
wara swallowed hard , just as the buxom nurse from this morning pushed past her , practically tearing up the tiles in her white clogs .
wara froze , then hurried after her with clipped steps , as the nurse dove into the open door where wara had left alejo .
she ducked inside to find alejo convulsing on the bed and the blood pressure machine going wild .
dr. ortega had his back to wara , punching a syringe into the plastic of alejo 's iv bag .
five or six nurses in white were framing the bed , grim and sober .
every single set of eyes flickered to wara as she entered , and none of the gazes were friendly .
what 's happening ? ''
she asked stupidly , knowing they all must hate her for disappearing the whole day while her fianc was hovering between life and death .
he 's dying ! ''
the nurse with the clogs snapped , then turned back to alejo .
it 's the swelling . ''
dr. ortega 's face shone slick with sweat above a bushy black beard .
it 's gotten worse , making him convulse .
his heart 's racing .
it 's like i told you , seorita .
the only way to relieve the swelling is to operate .
we ca n't do that here . ''
wara wandered closer , ignoring the cool glances of the nurses .
alejo had stopped shaking and lay flat on the bed , face the color of white clay .
he 's dying ? ''
she repeated , moving so close one hand touched the edge of the bed near alejo 's elbow .
the bullet did n't enter his brain , '' the doctor said , speaking loudly over the frantic beep of alejo 's heart rate .
but the impact still caused this swelling .
it 's much worse than we thought .
his heart ca n't keep this up much longer .
i 'm sorry . ''
wara did n't even look at the doctor , but her face crumpled as she watched alejo .
i should leave .
just leave .
i do n't have to watch this .
but her heart surged to her throat , vibrating with what she realized was compassion .
she clutched the bed sheet with white knuckles .
alejo 's heart rate accelerated further and his back arched .
and then his eyes flew open , leaving wara absolutely shocked , staring into a sea of hazel .
he was sitting , suddenly , gasping and leaning forward onto the pale blue blanket .
the monitor 's beeping dove from a constant beep to deep electronic thuds .
and stayed that way .
dr. ortega had flown to the bedside and was leaning over alejo 's shoulder , trying to support him .
behind the gold rimmed glasses , the doctor 's eyes were round and about to pop .
his heart rate 's normal , '' he stammered .
where did it ? what happened to the tachycardia ? ''
the nurses had drawn back and were gaping at alejo sitting up on the bed .
and then they jumped .
because alejo grinned .
at wara .
it was weak and lop sided , and looked out of place on his pale face .
but the smile caused his eyes to spark , and he glued his gaze on wara , who gawked back at him , knee propped against the side of his bed .
you ! ''
he croaked .
then coughed and tried another grin .
he told me i would n't remember your name .
does n't matter .
they 're coming for us .
two of them .
and he said we 're just supposed to go , and do whatever they say .
come with me ! ''
and then the grin faded and alejo hunched farther over , as if just now feeling the pain traveling down the nerve pathways from his head .
what hospital is this ? ''
he moaned , leaning over onto his knees with head in his hands .
i remember everything .
i ca n't believe i 'm here . ''
the nurses rushed towards him , firm hands admonishing the patient to lie back down .
wara forced her mouth to shut and backed up a few feet from the bed .
she ripped her gaze away from alejo towards the doctor , who was still watching wide eyed and incredulous .
i ca n't believe ? i was sure he was ? dying . ''
as if realizing he had just said that out loud , dr. ortega snapped his mouth shut and rubbed his temple .
this is really unusual .
we 'll have to run some more tests .
i 'd say we 're not out of the woods yet , after that little speech our patient just made .
he 's obviously delirious .
it 's to be expected with the brain trauma . ''
delirious .
of course .
they 're coming for us ? ''
that had sounded like a line out of terminator .
a skinny nurse butted into wara 's line of sight , cutting off the conversation with the doctor .
doctor , '' she clipped nervously .
the patient he ? ca n't see . ''
wara blinked , staying where she was as dr. ortega moved towards alejo and tried to check his sight .
you ca n't see ? ''
the doctor asked with concern .
alejo was lying still on the rumpled pillow , eyes opened narrowly .
i ca n't see anything , '' he answered .
there you go . ''
dr. ortega turned his head towards wara .
it 's still the swelling .
considering the loss of sight and that delirious talk , i 'm going to have the lab come up and do some more tests right away . ''
but he looked right at me .
when he woke up , wara thought , stunned .
that grin , half crazed but out of his mind with delight about something .
he knew she was there .
and now he could n't see .
it 's late , '' the doctor told wara .
why do n't you try to get some rest , while we draw some blood for the tests . ''
everyone shuffled out into the hallway , leaving wara alone with alejo , lying still and pale in the bed .
staring at the ceiling and seeing nothing .
get some rest , '' the doctor says .
tomorrow could n't come fast enough .
wara needed to escape to lima .
27 sapphire gabriel shara forced himself to eat breakfast that morning purely out of habit .
his stomach was full of butterflies with razor wings and his hands tingled as he sat at the table near the large picture window in the kitchen .
he was waiting for manuel , and manuel was not coming .
gabriel realized that the hot water in his ceramic mug was getting cold , and he distractedly unscrewed the red plastic lid of the nescafe jar and scooped a generous heap of instant coffee into the water .
he added two tiny spoons of sugar and a stream of cream , stirring it around without thinking .
a tightly sealed bag of crusty marraqueta bread had been delivered this morning and was sitting on the middle of the white lacquer table .
gabriel extracted one of them , sliced it open with a serrated knife from the table , and began to spread regia margarine and strawberry jam on each side .
as he bit into the chewy , warm bread , the thought crossed his mind these are exactly like the ones my mom used to make , in the clay oven in the back yard .
gabriel 's mouth twitched into a smile at the image of his fashionable , upper class mother , standing in the backyard in a pink apron and huge oven mitts , waiting for the crust of the marraquetas to reach just the right texture so she could snatch them from the steaming mouth of the oven in the corner of their backyard .
the shara family had maids and servants to do every kind of manual labor , but baking bread had been his mother 's hobby .
gabriel thought it was in her blood , passed down from her arab ancestors who had baked flat bread in outdoor ovens in palestine .
he sighed deeply at the memory of his mom .
it stunk that she could n't know about his work , and especially about the assignment gabriel was on today .
it was such an honor that the khan had thought of him for this job .
his mom would be so proud .
but she would probably never find out .
gabriel frowned in frustration and slowly chewed his bread , then glanced nervously out the window , watching for manuel .
gabriel was waiting in a large , newly constructed house on a high slope at the north of cochabamba , one of many rented by the khan 's foundation .
no one else was here besides gabriel , and that fact was beginning to make gabriel sweat .
he swore silently as he took a swig of nescafe and stood up again to try to see over the concrete wall surrounding the house and down the hill where a car could be coming up the cobblestone street .
nothing .
the morning was silent , except for the sound of a few song birds flitting around the coral and white flowering trees in the neighborhood .
where was manuel ?
after the disastrous scene with alejo at pairumani and the subsequent rush to univalle , gabriel and stalin had made it just in time to the jorge wilstermann airport to meet benjamin and ishmael .
until the moment that the men were to check in for their flight to asuncion , where they would meet lzaro after his three day sabbatical and regroup , only ishmael had known that gabriel would be staying behind .
as he clapped all his friends on the back good bye , gabriel had casually explained that he had a contract for a job , and would meet them in asuncion after the weekend , inshallah .
allah willing .
okay , so gabriel would n't carry out the actual mission today , of course .
that was where manuel came in .
gabriel was the mastermind behind the whole thing , providing all the technical support .
the client who had hired him was going to pay him a cartload of money .
last night gabriel had stayed up much later than he should have , playing the violin much too fast while dreaming what he would buy for ambrin with the money .
he was thinking maybe a trip to europe for the honeymoon , because what girl did n't want to go to europe ?
in two more months , ambrin would graduate from nursing school and ishmael had said the wedding could happen after that .
the whole idea was enough to make gabriel downright delirious .
but he really did n't feel at peace .
of course he wanted to marry her !
but that was just the problem .
allah had given gabriel back his life that night in peshawar when his throat had been slit .
what right did he have to just marry ambrin and go on honeymoon to paris and live happily ever after ?
the world was full of people suffering , their daily lives full of misery .
a good example was the people of palestine , where his grandparents had lived before immigrating to bolivia .
he probably still had relatives there , whom he had never met , trapped in what many considered the world 's largest jail .
conditions there were abject poverty , as the palestinians had been forced off their land by the israelis and left with nowhere to go .
they belonged to no country , thus had no passport and could never leave that place to study overseas or work .
and in palestine , there was no work .
would n't allah be more than a little mad if gabriel just married ambrin and sat around drinking coffee with her in the mornings and laughing about all their kids ' cute little antics ?
the thought caused gabriel 's stomach to churn .
what if allah was n't pleased with his decision to live out his own desires and marry ambrin ?
what if he would n't let him into paradise ?
the taste of the fresh bread soured in gabriel 's mouth and he gulped down the last inch of coffee , then glanced once more at the window .
the brick colored stones of the street were still silent .
he carried his dishes over to the sink , where later they would be washed by someone the khan hired to keep this place up .
he dropped the margarine and cream off in the refrigerator , carefully tied up the bread in its bag with a perfect little knot .
all the rooms of the huge house were absolutely silent , and the slapping of gabriel 's bare feet across the shiny black tiles echoed loud .
he pulled a cell phone out of his jean pocket and punched in the number for manuel , holding his breath .
he 'll probably answer and say that he is just pulling up to the gate any minute .
he would n't be late for this , would he ?
not after all the time we 've spent .
manuel choque 's family lived in a one room hut of adobe out in the mountains around potosi his father had not been home since he was two .
somehow , while packed into a classroom of seventy kids out in the countryside , he 'd been picked out as having musical talent .
manuel had been given a full scholarship to attend the iranian bolivian conservatory , founded five years back in cochabamba .
the short , swarthy seventeen year old was now a beautiful classical violin player , as well as a devoted muslim .
when he was n't studying , he made a small amount of cash playing at concerts and parties .
he also took occasional jobs playing at upscale restaurants , who requested musicians from the conservatory .
today , beginning at 12 00 , manuel was to play at a luncheon .
on his way to the job , manuel was to stop here at the house , to take care of some vital matters with gabriel , who had prepped him for this day in several important meetings .
manuel was supposed to arrive at 9 30 .
as the cell phone kept ringing , gabriel pulled the phone away from his ear to check the time .
9 42 .
how could he be late , today of all days ?
there was so much to do .
manuel knew what today meant .
he 'd said he wanted his life to mean something .
sighing crossly , gabriel hung up and redialed .
as the ringing began again , he padded across the wide entryway into a room that lay behind a heavy wooden door .
he pushed it open and strode over to a thick table , glancing for the hundredth time that morning at his creations from the past twenty four hours of work .
in the corner of the room , boxes of explosives and electronics were scattered , like a kids ' legos dumped out onto the tiles .
the contents of gabriel 's tool boxes were sprawled across the dusty black tile of the floor , signs that a madman half genius had been at work , putting together things from raw ingredients with the inspiration of an artist .
but the most important item for today 's mission was laid out on a crude wooden workbench , awaiting the arrival of manuel .
gabriel 's violin was also resting on sapphire velvet in its case on a clean work table .
he almost choked up , seeing the instrument and remembering last night , how he 'd played for ambrin and dreamed of europe .
i 've slept in so many strange places like this house , that are home to no one full of generic dishes , fresh instant coffee , and beds that are always mysteriously made up with clean sheets by some unknown hand .
but as long as i 'm with my violin , it feels like home .
things are n't so bad .
gabriel pressed his lips together as the cell continued ringing , now for the fifth time .
he felt a little faint as it occurred to him that manuel was not coming .
no !
how could he do this ?
how could he not understand how important this is ?
ok , yes , it 's a little scary .
but he said he was prepared !
everything depends on him !
gabriel slammed a fist into the wooden doorframe and leaned against it , breathing heavily .
manuel , how dare you chicken out on me !
there was n't much time , and he really needed to think .
the only way near the targets was as the musical entertainment , sent by the conservatory .
and the iranian bolivian conservatory had lined up manuel , per gabriel 's instructions .
i ca n't believe this !
this is so important i was so sure this is what allah wanted !
how can we let this opportunity slip away , just because manuel did n't show ?
we are so close !
but without him , there 's no way to get close enough to the targets .
gabriel blinked as his eyes fell upon the honey colored wood of his violin , resting on top of sapphire velvet .
of course there 's a way .
i can replace manuel , tell them the conservatory sent me .
when they hear me play , there wo n't be a single complaint .
for a moment he felt a little woozy , the only thing holding him back a memory of deep , sapphire blue eyes framed by a lilac veil in a beautiful garden in pakistan .
but there really was no other way .
steeling himself , gabriel knelt , then prostrated himself on the ground , feeling dirty and unclean , knowing he had not washed himself properly for prayer .
if only allah could forgive him this one time , in this hour of greatest need .
unbidden , the scene from pairumani flashed through his mind alejo , who had always cared about him , dead because he had refused to return to allah .
the bile of that betrayal threatened to rise up gabriel 's throat , along with crazy sorrow over losing his friend .
but greater than that was the concern that squeezed gabriel as he remembered his own betrayal he had lied to the khan and let that girl go , out of pity .
she could cause all kind of damage to the cause of allah .
and allah knew all about it .
gabriel turned his hands up towards heaven , supplicating , then closed his eyes .
there was no more time .
he waited there on the floor , hoping for wisdom , feeling the burden of pleasing allah pressing him into the ground .
then he clenched his jaw , sure , and climbed to his feet , staring at the workbench .
i should never have trusted manuel to do this .
i will go .
with deliberation , gabriel unbuttoned his shirt and threw it on the floor , feeling the chill of the morning air on his bare chest .
time to get dressed .
the violin would be going with him , just as it always did to every place he called home .
this would n't be so bad .
28 fiery wara woke in the morning to luke warm anise tea on a breakfast tray next to her bed .
she slit her eyes and saw alejo martir sitting cross legged on the other bed in the hospital room , staring at nothing , wearing sweat pants under a blue plaid hospital gown .
she really did n't want to open her eyes .
alejo could n't see .
last night the doctor had ordered a lot of tests , but of course it was because of the gun shot to the head .
it was unbelievable he was even alive .
the only thing that convinced wara to sit up in bed was remembering that today she would get away from this place and be on her way back to see the martirs , then to the u.s. she tried to swing her legs over the side of the bed but her head spun like a ballerina practicing pirouettes .
her eyes felt like sandpaper and her nose still felt like it was stuffed with cotton .
thank god , dr. ortega said it was n't actually broken .
wara slapped at the cooling mug of tea on her tray and gulped it down , shuddering at the sickly sweet brew .
alejo heard the clatter of ceramic on the table and turned towards her , expression pained .
she needed to say something to him .
after all , this was good bye .
or good riddance .
are you ? are you ok ? ''
she asked tentatively .
of course he was n't ok .
he was blind and rather out of his mind .
wara frowned and slumped back into the headboard , remembering the silly grin of yesterday and alejo 's rambling about two something coming for us .
had it been two people ?
or aliens ?
alejo sighed and tried to smile towards her , but it was a sad smile .
the tests from yesterday show the swelling is down .
dr. ortega came in while you were sleeping .
he could n't believe it .
guess it 's supposed to take three or four days for the swelling to die down .
i still ca n't see though .
for that , he said just wait and see .
he said maybe my sight 'll come back .
from the way he said it , i think he 's just trying to be nice . ''
wara winced and forced herself to eat two round maria cookies from the white china plate next to the anise tea .
she was wiped out , barely keeping herself together .
what was she supposed to say ?
i 'm sorry this happened to you ? ''
it sure was awful watching your blood splatter everywhere , and i 'm sorry all your friends just sat by and watched ? ''
she had already talked with alejo a tiny bit last night , when just the two of them were left alone in the room after all the lab tests .
he remembered being shot and was obviously relieved that wara was alive and well .
wara filled him in on how stalin and gabriel had saved his life by dropping them off here at univalle .
there really was n't much else to say , was there ?
oh yeah .
i 'm going to lima , to see your family , '' she announced , watching his reaction while breaking another maria cookie up into tiny little bits .
tonight .
yesterday i found out the bus is leaving at six . ''
alejo 's face was impassive as he said he agreed with her decision .
wara slowly fed herself bites of cookie , willing the day to go by quickly .
they spent the next three hours watching tv .
or listening to tv , in alejo 's case .
the afternoon news began by the time a nurse brought a late lunch of white rice and chicken .
alejo fumbled with his fork at his plate , then froze and snatched the remote off his lap , stabbing buttons to turn up the volume .
look ! ''
he ordered , straining to hear the blaring voice of a female announcer .
wara turned her eyes to the small tv and nearly spit out a mouthful of sticky rice at the sight .
it was a building on cochabamba 's prado avenue , and it was burning .
alejo was leaning towards the television , knuckles squeezing the life out of the remote .
? at around 12 30 today , '' the announcer was saying .
there have been reports of an explosion , followed by these images of fiery destruction you are now seeing at the hotel diplomat . ''
the screen cut to the picture of burning building again , towering over the busy prado avenue , flames licking the clouds .
boiling black smoke poured towards heaven .
wara gaped at the tv , not able to believe that the sleek hotel she had passed hundreds of times was now this burning wreck .
noah 's parents had stayed there , but were scheduled to leave the night following the funeral .
wara felt sure they had n't stuck around a single minute longer than necessary .
on the news they said it was an explosion .
she cut her eyes over to alejo , whose lips had condensed into a grim , pale line .
the female announcer was back again , in a low cut mauve suit coat and braided gold earrings that hung to her shoulders .
smoky eyeliner made her eyes pop from a flawlessly tan face with salmon colored cheeks .
many of the hotel guests , '' she continued gravely , were able to escape the building through stairs at the back , and the hotel bar and restaurant seems to be the hardest hit .
while we will have to wait for a final count , there is sure to be a great number of lives lost in this tragedy .
initial estimates for the death toll are between sixty and seventy . ''
wara 's stomach clenched and she saw the silver fire again , spinning over her head as the bus hurdled down the ravine , taking noah with it .
she staggered to her feet , bumping the lunch tray and sending cool tea splashing over the rice .
i 've got to get out of here , she thought in a daze .
even the bus station was sounding preferable now than staying here and watching this .
the news reporter was receiving a note from an off screen hand and continuing in all her mauve , low cut glory .
she drew back and frowned at the small note , then raised dark eyes to the camera .
we are just receiving word that we have confirmation of the identities of two of the men who were killed in the hotel diplomat this afternoon .
their names will be released later , but we do know they are a deputy minister in israel 's ministry of defense and the israeli ambassador to the united states . ''
wara 's eyelids fluttered as alejo muttered under his breath .
he did not sound happy .
but the news story was n't over yet .
the israeli men had come to bolivia for negotiations with the government to reopen diplomatic relations .
bolivia and israel have had no diplomatic relations since 2008 , when president evo morales cut off relations over the actions of israel in the gaza strip during the 2008 2009 war .
israel has stated that the nature of the explosion at the hotel diplomat is believed to be consistent with that of a suicide bomber , '' the young news reporter faltered a moment , and then looked at the camera , puzzled , and that a team of experts from tel aviv will be sent to examine the remains of the scene , to arrive at their own conclusions about what happened here in this very tragic situation . ''
alejo 's face was drawn and severe .
he knew about this , did n't he ?
who else would do something like this ?
did you ? did you do this ? ''
she stammered , eyes searching his even though she knew he could n't see her .
i know nothing about this , '' he stated each word slowly and clearly .
but it was obvious that something about the bombing had him upset .
wara lowered herself back onto her bed shakily .
she yanked the blanket over her head and curled up in the bed , trying to block out the sounds of the news reports about flames and death .
29 turquoise the bus station was packed , a writhing mass of bodies and battered suitcases .
wara filed outside through the appropriate gate , trying not to hyperventilate at the sight of the red double decker bus she was supposed to board .
steady , she reminded herself .
this is n't the same bus .
this is your ticket to the martirs .
she climbed up the bus steps and easily found seat 22b , weak kneed with relief that it was nowhere near where she and noah had sat on the bus from coroico .
wara smoothed her finger over noah 's ring , then leaned back into her seat and closed her eyes .
she had left alejo sitting morosely on the hospital bed .
he had refused to say anything else about the hotel diplomat , but the way his jaw was set announced that the news was n't good .
from somewhere inside wara 's pocket , her cell phone rang .
startled , she dug around and managed to pull out the small , cheap phone alejo had bought her at the hostal salta .
nazaret , calling to see what time i 'll be arriving , she assumed .
i 'm sure they 'll come to meet me .
hello ? ''
but it was n't wara 's friend 's voice that answered on the other end .
wara ? ''
the voice was male .
alejo ?
the only other person who has my number .
sigh .
wara !
where are you ? ''
his voice sounded urgent .
her heart sank .
was something wrong ?
could they '' be after her again ?
i 'm in the bus . ''
she covered the mouthpiece of the phone with her hand .
we 're about to leave . ''
wara , i , uh ? . ''
alejo 's voice faltered , and for a second wara thought he might cry .
then he said what she never expected i can see .
god made me see again . ''
wara nearly dropped the phone , astonished .
fumbling for words , she finally managed , you mean your vision came back ?
the doctor said it might .
that 's ?
great . ''
no , no it did n't just come back .
wara , god did this . ''
alejo 's voice was racing , and his sentences all ran together .
a woman , an old quechua woman , came here an hour ago , to pray for me .
she said she knows you , and you told her to pray for me . ''
doa filomena ! ''
heat spread down the base of wara 's neck .
yes !
well she came to pray for me , in quechua .
and then i blinked , wara just the blink of an eye .
i opened my eyes , and there in front of me was this wrinkled old quechua lady in a pollera , praying her heart out for me .
i could see it all !
i could see her , the hospital room with the blue curtains i can see again , wara . ''
wara gawked at the cheap gray phone in disbelief .
she heard a loud bang beneath her as the baggage compartment door was slammed shut .
any minute now , the long bus would be pulling out of the station and wara would be headed to lima .
wow , '' she muttered , but alejo did n't even seem to hear her .
his voice was still shaking , and he was obviously elated .
the other day , when i woke up , i saw something , '' he said .
someone .
he told me that he was sending two people for us , and we should go with them . ''
yeah , i remember that .
i thought you were crazy .
he talked to me about you , too , wara . ''
alejo hesitated , surely knowing that his chances of convincing wara of this were very slim .
there 's something god 's going to show us .
please come back . ''
this was alejo martir talking .
she did n't really like him , and she did n't really trust him .
but he was claiming to have had a vision from god , that two people were coming to show alejo and wara something .
and he had a miraculous healing to back it up .
but i ca n't just ? i need to go to lima . ''
the excuse sounded weak in wara 's ears .
we 'll go to lima .
or you can go without me , wara . ''
alejo was insistent .
just please come back here now .
go tomorrow .
please . ''
wara felt a quiver as the bus began to back up , inching its way out of its narrow parking slot , curving backwards .
a crazy urgency filled her chest and she stood up , nearly smashing her head on the ceiling .
god is calling for you .
god is there , with alejo .
he gave him back his sight .
and he wants you to go .
i 'm coming back , '' wara said into the phone , then closed it tightly .
she staggered down the aisle , ignoring the curious glances of the other seated passengers .
there was just one thought ransacking her brain the whole time , speeding her heart into overdrive .
who is coming ?
wara exited the silver elevator on alejo 's floor at univalle , tiptoeing across the polished tiles .
the nurses ' station was silent and empty a phone rang insistently on the desk , but no one ran to answer it .
she inhaled raggedly and pushed open the heavy wooden door to the room she had left just a few hours before .
wara immediately noticed that doa filomena was gone , but two strangers clustered around the hospital bed .
one was a tall , lanky guy with broad shoulders and a narrow waist , buzzed sandy brown hair , and a hooked nose .
at the other side of the bed stood an attractive lady , older than wara , with two short black braids and fair skin .
they were both dressed in cheap clothes and black rubber flip flops with a healthy coating of dry mud .
as wara drew up next to them , the woman was pulling off the last of alejo 's bloodied bandages .
his hazel eyes flickered towards her as she entered , and she immediately knew he could see her .
that crazy grin spread across his lips as he said , i can see you , wara . ''
she gaped back at him , still not quite believing this .
you can really see .
did you tell dr .
ortega ? ''
well , i was about to , but then i got some more visitors .
i think it 's time for check out . ''
alejo 's eyes shone , and wara stared , speechless .
the two people who were making themselves at home in the room seemed as happy about alejo getting his sight back as he was .
the two just stood there , nodding and grinning as if there were nothing strange about a man getting his sight back by the power of god .
suddenly wara 's knees buckled .
there were two of them ?
there is n't much time . ''
the man with the wide shoulders and military haircut clapped alejo 's shoulder with slender fingers .
his eyes drooped slightly , but the corners of his mouth were lifted in a smile .
you must be wara . ''
wara nodded dumbly , still struck by the fact that there were two of them .
these were the messengers alejo had been told about ?
who were these people ?
we would like you and alejo to come with us , '' the strange man was addressing wara .
there 's someone who would like to talk with you .
alejo told me that both of you are believers in jesus ?
well then , rest easy .
the man who wants to see you is a believer as well , your brother .
but if you will come , we have to hurry .
there is n't much time . ''
the stout woman with the two braids turned towards wara , and she found herself looking into deep eyes the color of chocolate , rimmed at the edge with a touch of turquoise .
will you come with us ? ''
wara noted that her spanish was accented , as was the man 's .
something she could n't place .
instinctively , wara 's gaze flew to alejo .
it was because of him that she was standing here in the middle of this craziness .
he nodded at her and winked .
o ok , '' she agreed in a daze .
i 'll go . ''
the two visitors grinned a little , and the woman motioned towards alejo .
quick , come see this ! ''
wara took a few steps forward and saw that she was pointing to the spot where alejo 's bandages had been , the wound from the bullet .
wara 's eyes popped to see that where alejo 's curls were shaved away there was only healthy , mocha colored skin .
no trace of a scar .
is this the first time you 've seen a healing ? ''
the man asked , turning towards wara with that lazy half smile .
she nodded mutely , and he nodded back at her kindly , as if to say , we all have to start somewhere .
alright , then .
time to change , '' the woman ordered , guiding wara forward with one hand on her back both of you , in the bathroom .
we paid about ten patients to keep the nurses busy , but we should hurry . ''
wara felt very hot , sure sweat was dripping down her backbone under her t shirt .
into the bathroom ?
you , over here , '' ms. braids motioned wara towards one of the bathroom corners .
we 're going to get you into some clothes like ours , so we wo n't stand out on our little trip away from here . ''
glancing behind her , wara saw alejo pulling off his shirt to change in the opposite corner of the bathroom .
neither of you turn around , '' braids snickered at her .
face the wall . ''
wara obeyed .
at lightening speed , the short woman helped wara strip out of her old clothes and pull on faded sweat pants , a bulky , worn beige sweater , and black plastic sandals caked in mud .
with crisp efficiency , she then bundled wara 's hair on top of her head under a floppy brimmed white hat with an attached black braid that tickled wara 's waist .
there you go , '' braids said .
no one will recognize you . ''
hands gripped wara 's shoulder and spun her around to face the men .
surreally , alejo was sporting a greasy baseball hat , ratty dress pants , and the ugliest homemade sweater wara had ever seen .
he did a double take , then blinked at her a couple times .
you look like mariana condori ? she used to sell us fruit in the quillacollo market when i was a little kid , '' alejo said .
i used to have a crush on her . ''
i think it 's the braid . ''
wara bit her lip .
you look like a nice couple of working class folk , headed home after a long day at the market , '' the tall guy said .
he followed them out of the bathroom , stuffing their discarded clothing into his ripped plastic market bag on the way .
time to go .
grab anything you need . ''
wara did n't need anything .
she jogged after the rest of them , feeling the long fake braid slapping her back .
she followed the three others into the hallway , which was still eerily silent .
with each step , her cheap plastic sandals squished noisily across the tiles .
at the end of the hallway , a fat metal door blocked their path , secured with two golden padlocks .
keep your face turned to ten o'clock , '' said broad shoulders .
wara started , then noticed the security camera in the corner facing the door .
patients in bolivia were n't allowed to leave the hospital until the bill was paid in full , a process that could take a full afternoon of paperwork .
wara drew a deep breath and followed the others in approaching the door while facing the opposite corner , away from the camera .
out of the corner of her eye , wara saw braids extract something from her pocket .
she jammed it into the lock , wiggled , and the padlock released with a soft pop .
the other one yielded to her touch within another thirty seconds , and broad shoulders removed the two padlocks and slung them over a bar on the door .
and now we go out , '' he said , and wara followed him outside into the cool darkness of the andean night .
ok , take the stairs on your seats , '' braids instructed , and wara sat on the cold concrete steps , eyes wide , imitating the others as they scooted down three flights of stairs hidden from the front hospital patio by the concrete wall .
the murmur of conversation and screech of guard whistles rose around them .
wara pressed her lips together , really beginning to wonder why they were scuttling down a side stairway of univalle as if this were some sort of jailbreak .
stop , '' shoulders whispered , and wara froze in place next to alejo near the bottom stair .
he glanced at her in the darkness , and she saw a flash of red light reflect off his irises , then bounce on the concrete wall opposite the last stair .
a siren beeped , then hushed , and alejo 's eyes narrowed .
a police car ?
wara began wondering if she should be worried .
it could n't be here for us , right ?
they wo n't recognize the four of us together . ''
braids turned around , crouching on the stairs .
the police car is parked just around the corner . ''
she eyed wara firmly .
we 're just people who came here to visit sick uncle marco after a long day of work in the market .
we belong here .
on three , we all stand up and walk towards the street .
slowly .
one , two , three . ''
heart drumming in her chest , wara tried to rise quietly to her feet and follow alejo and the two , trying to imagine what someone might possibly be feeling who had n't just picked two padlocks and escaped from a bolivian hospital with two complete strangers .
they rounded to the front of the hospital and past two olive green police vehicles , red lights periodically flashing in the night .
no one tried to stop them as they passed through the hospital gate and onto the dimly lit street .
the two strangers broke pace next to dented white toyota corolla .
climb in , '' shoulders said .
you two newbies in the back . ''
wara slid in next to alejo , disturbed as she suddenly remembered that less than forty eight hours ago alejo had been sprawled on the gray blanket , bleeding , in front of this very hospital .
it was very weird that he was now outside , leaving , in a car with total strangers .
so , you can see now , '' she eyed him nervously .
but are you sure you 're ok to leave the hospital ? ''
i 'm absolutely wonderful , '' alejo flashed that white smile that could only remind her of pastor martir .
god healed me did you see ?
it 's as if i 'd never even been shot ! ''
wara had seen .
she leaned back into the gray vinyl seat , gripping the fraying edges as shoulders leaped into the driver 's seat and whipped away around the corner , braids riding shotgun .
are these real people , or could they actually be angels ?
wara 's thoughts were running wild as she stared at both of them in the front seat .
and where are they taking us ?
30 blond they ditched the white corolla at a gas station and continued on motorcycles , the mysterious strangers , wara , and a guy who an hour ago had been blind .
for thirty minutes they rode out of the city , then turned off the main road to follow a rugged path cut through a cornfield .
the motorcycles ' headlights cut through the heavy darkness of the cornfield under the stars .
just when wara was afraid she would n't be able to hang on to alejo 's back any longer , the wispy tendrils of chaff fell away quickly from their background against a slate blue sky .
they had arrived in a clearing , and in the pale moonlight wara could see a large , two story house , built completely out of wood .
sometime along the way , the tall man with the hooked nose had introduced himself as tabor , and the woman as sandal .
tabor parked his motorcycle next to a giant eucalyptus tree near the house and he and sandal climbed off the bike in exact synchronization .
alejo pulled up next to them and turned the key , leaving the four of them in the shadows of the tree , in silence .
wara slid off the cycle first , hiding a wince at how her legs ached after having been bowed for so long .
alejo was still wearing that half loony grin , ecstatic at being able to see again and having his vision come true .
he sobered a little at the sight of her pinched face , as if just now realizing she might possibly be scared half to death .
you 're brave , '' he said to her , startling her into a slight smile .
he waited for her , and the two of them walked side by side after sandal and tabor towards the looming house .
the rough , unvarnished door was made of a blond wood and had been left cracked open , as if expecting visitors .
wara shivered , staring at the house and the wood door .
come on .
i 'm sure he 's really anxious to meet you , '' sandal said , waiting for wara to walk past her through the door .
she met wara 's eyes with the hint of an encouraging smile .
the spacious room inside the house was a stark contrast to the blurry darkness outside .
this room was filled with light , blazing from a small chandelier formed from deer antlers .
in the far corner , several brown leather couches clustered under woven tapestries with the familiar designs of quechua children and snow peaked mountains .
with a start , wara realized that there was a fifth person in the room , nearly camouflaged against a plain wooden wall to her left .
he was wearing brown slacks and a tan button down shirt , with wool slippers .
he looked about sixty , a little paunchy , with balding brown hair and a bushy mustache .
ice blue eyes observed alejo keenly , then drifted over to wara .
welcome to my home . ''
the man 's voice was deep and calm .
there was no accent to the man 's spanish , despite his very un bolivian appearance .
i am really very glad you came . ''
alejo remained standing close to wara , on a coral colored rug in the center of the room .
hello , '' he said , hands loose at his side .
both men watched each other for a moment , sizing each other up .
then alejo asked , who are you ? ''
a very good question . ''
the older man 's cool blue eyes crinkled around the edges .
my name is rupert cole , and this is my home .
you have arrived at an ostrich farm . ''
mr. cole seemed to expect the surprised looks on their faces , and he chuckled .
if you decide to stay awhile , in the morning i could give you a tour .
but for now , my job is to make sure you are n't spooked and run away .
you already met sandal and tabor . ''
mr. cole looked over towards the door , but the two who had come to the hospital were already gone .
oh , they 'll be back , '' mr. cole assured wara in a tone that told her he had read her mind as she wondered if they had been angels and disappeared into thin air .
i 'm sure they just went to change out of those clothes .
i do n't have your names , '' mr. cole told them quietly .
i 'm alejo . ''
alejo held out his hand as mr. cole reached forward to shake it firmly .
it 's a pleasure to meet you , mr .
cole . ''
please call me rupert . ''
rupert 's eyes crinkled slightly again .
my father was mr .
cole . ''
rupert 's gaze fell on wara , and she slowly pulled the hat and fake braid off her head , leaving her own hair falling in disarray around her shoulders .
i 'm wara cadogan , '' she told him smally , shaking one thick , rough hand with her own .
rupert motioned them towards the brown leather couches .
please do n't run away just yet .
the reason you 're here is because i have a job offer for you , which i 'll tell you about when you 're ready .
but for now , i really want to help you , however i can .
i know things are a little up in the air right now , to say the least .
i work for an organization that can help . ''
wara followed alejo in taking a seat on the couch , across from rupert cole .
alejo regarded the older man calmly , face giving nothing away .
how do you know about us ? ''
he asked .
rupert 's cool blue eyes flashed .
i had a dream about you , alejo .
now before you laugh , it 's not like this happens all the time .
this is only the third time god showed me something in a dream . ''
another dream ?
wara crossed her arms and leaned back into the cool leather of the couch , feeling a little out of her element .
alejo did not appear at all fazed .
after all , he had known they would be coming here .
with tabor and sandal .
rupert was continuing .
so , what i saw was a man with a gun against his forehead .
the gun fired .
i assume that was you ? ''
alejo nodded a little uncomfortably , probably remembering the scene at pairumani .
and yet here you are , '' rupert waved one burly forearm , at my house , safe and sound .
i saw you being carried into the hospital , and a girl with dark hair and a star over her head was standing near the door , crying .
i saw the sign on the hospital univalle .
it was as clear as day .
i was about to follow you inside , alejo , when a man grabbed my arm and said , 'they will look for him because of what happened to the bus . '
now in my dream , i understood exactly what he was talking about the death road bus accident .
which may not have been an accident .
am i right ? ''
rupert 's calm gaze searched alejo 's face , which had grown very serious .
it was n't an accident , '' alejo admitted in a low voice .
how did you know ? ''
my brother robert cole works at the embassy , and took a call from a man who talked about that bus , and told him the american girl was still alive and with him .
in my dream i saw her with a star .
and here you are . ''
rupert nodded at wara .
wara .
aymara for star . ''
listen , '' he sighed and continued lowly , the truth is , the both of you are in a heap of trouble , and i believe i 'm supposed to help you .
from the little i know , you , '' he jerked a thumb in alejo 's direction , are in a lot of trouble .
you 've broken bolivian law and , i assume , have people from your organization after you .
and you , '' rupert looked at wara steadily but kindly , are in trouble because you know things you should n't know and have seen things that no civilian who was just riding a bus should have to see .
neither of you can just go back into your old lives , just show up in society as you were .
i think you both understand that . ''
wara felt hot tears prick her eyes .
rupert heaved a sigh and then said , there 's a reason i sent tabor and sandal to get you out of that hospital so quickly after my dream .
i was relieved to see your faces here in my living room , because i wondered if i would get to you in time .
come with me , both of you there 's something i have to show you . ''
alejo and wara wordlessly padded after rupert cole across the hardwood floor and through a darkened doorway .
the older man flipped on a light , revealing an office with blond wood walls and multiple low bookcases painted a very ugly burnt orange .
a tiny black computer desk sat under a picture window that really needed washing .
rupert plopped down on a chair in front of the extra wide flat screen .
have a seat there , '' he told them quietly , motioning to two comfortable looking plaid swivel chairs a few paces behind him .
they obeyed , and wara watched as rupert pressed his thumb against the blank computer screen and said a few numbers out loud .
immediately , the computer whirled and came to life , showing a background with a gray generic windows drawing and two small rows of icons .
sandal and tabor were back , having changed out of the tattered clothes from the hospital .
they waited in silence at the back of the office , arms crossed in front of their chests .
i apologize in advance , in case this is upsetting . ''
wara assumed rupert was talking to her .
i know about this video from my brother who works at the american embassy , robert .
it was posted on youtube , but of course has already been taken down .
but the embassy has a copy , i have a copy ? who knows who else has this . ''
rupert scooted his chair to one side , glanced back at alejo with very serious eyes , and then the pixels of color on the wide computer screen came together in the image of a young guy with a reddish goatee wearing black against a background of a large black , white , and green stripe with a red triangle .
the flag of palestine , was the first thing wara thought as she frowned at the large flag .
then her blood ran cold as it registered that the lanky , blond guy standing there was wearing a long sleeve black shirt underneath a layer of explosives and wires encasing his chest .
a suicide bomber .
the young man stood in front of the flag in a black woolen sailor 's cap , wearing the explosive vest in a very matter of fact fashion .
instead of brandishing a long machine gun , as was the typical image wara had seen of suicide bombers , he was gripping a violin over one shoulder , standing still for the camera .
wara started when she heard alejo fly out of his chair , biting back a loud curse .
his face was contorted , and he kicked at the swivel chair with one violent motion , clenching his fist .
gabriel , you idiot !
do n't do this to me ! ''
heart spiraling down to her toes , wara turned back to the man on the screen and realized that it was the same pale gabriel who had left her at the hospital .
she gripped the armrests of her chair tighter .
gabriel was repeating a prayer or verse from the quran in arabic .
when he finished , he looked into the camera almost curiously and said , first i would like to send a message to my parents .
dad , you were wonderful , and i thank you for your example .
you were always a faithful believer .
mom , i pray that allah will grant you the grace to continue to be a faithful believer despite all the trials .
please do n't be angry at me for this .
you know that allah will reward me with paradise , and i will be there , waiting for both of you .
mom , i will especially be waiting for your good cooking . ''
at this point , gabriel 's lips twisted into a wry smile , and his green eyes searched the camera .
i do this as my jihad against the cause of injustice , against those who maim and kill god 's people in palestine and around the world . ''
gabriel looked at his violin a moment , reflectively , and then continued , i am not a tough warrior or a soldier .
but with this my weapon , my talent that allah has given me , i fight for his cause in the world and thus win his favor for paradise . ''
gabriel quoted a verse from the quran , in spanish allah has bought from the believers their lives and their money in exchange for paradise .
thus , they fight in the cause of allah , willing to kill and get killed .
such is his truthful pledge in the torah , the gospel , and the quran and who fulfills his pledge better than allah ?
you shall rejoice in making such an exchange .
this is the greatest triumph . ''
no , no , no ! ''
alejo was back in his chair , leaning forward , pleading .
he slammed one fist into his knee .
gabo , do n't do this ! ''
but of course everyone realized that he already had .
i have always been a faithful muslim , '' gabriel 's eyes bored into theirs from the screen , except for a few indiscretions where i allowed my heart to get ahead of my faithful service to allah .
for that , i offer my life now in jihad , against the injustices of the world and against the unrighteousness in my own heart .
i pray allah will purify me by fire and accept me into paradise . ''
wara struggled to inflate her frozen lungs .
had gabriel thought he disobeyed god by letting her and alejo go ?
i know that certain people will be very ticked off that i did this . ''
gabriel 's mouth twisted wryly again , and he lowered the violin to his side .
but please know that i really cared about you all , all of my friends , and am thankful to have enjoyed so many good memories together .
i 'll miss the brownies , the trips , all our conversations over coffee .
but then again , i may not miss them at all .
i think that in paradise all those things will fade into memory , because i 'm sure that life there is pretty good . ''
gabriel lowered his lashes , then looked up and started to walk towards the camera .
this was a very strange video of this type , i know .
i have always been a very quirky guy .
i 'll be waiting for all you guys , so please do n't disappoint me , ok ? ''
he disappeared to the side of the screen , leaving for one moment the view of the huge palestinian flag , hanging in silence .
then the video was cut , and the only thing visible was an advertisement from youtube .
alejo was bowed over onto his knees , sobbing .
wara was stunned to see stern alejo sitting there , crying like a baby .
rupert obviously had expected his .
i thought that you might know him , '' he said in a gravelly voice .
of course , this is what happened to the hotel diplomat this afternoon .
i also have a video taken from a camera phone found in the rubble , of the actual detonation , which you will not be allowed to see . ''
wara sucked in a deep breath , fighting nausea .
the embassy was n't really investigating anything after the phone call you made , not yet .
but with these videos , the investigation starts for real .
the u.s. , bolivia , and israel will be combing every corner to find out who the man in the video is , and who is connected to him . ''
it could have been wara 's imagination , but rupert 's blue eyes seemed a little misty and his face wore the look of a man who had lost many comrades in his day .
i i think i need to go to lay down , '' wara stammered , standing up shakily and facing sandal .
can ? is there a room here where i can sleep ? ''
of course , '' sandal understood perfectly .
i 'll take you to your room .
we will all be here tomorrow . ''
feeling faint , wara left the office and the sound of alejo 's tears .
31 plaid alejo woke the next morning with a cool breeze rustling the gauze curtains and caressing his face .
he was lying on his stomach on a single bed with thick wool blankets in a room with walls that smelled of cedar .
his limbs felt like lead and his heart torn to pieces , but he forced himself to sit up on the edge of the bed and breathe .
the man wara loved was dead , thanks to alejo gabriel had blown himself to pieces in jihad , trying to make allah love him .
alejo still remembered the scoffing tone of his friend 's voice in the delivery truck when alejo told him his decision about jesus the quran tells us everything we need to please god .
and i 've been doing it all .
we are the best of the best , che .
why would we need some person to take away our sins ?
we are serving allah every day .
we 're not unbelievers who do n't follow his laws .
he 's got to accept me . ''
what better way to earn allah 's favor than as a suicide bomber , making the ultimate sacrifice to do allah 's will ?
except man ca n't earn god 's favor .
alejo resisted the urge to sink back down onto the bed , depressed .
only the savior of the world can atone for the sins of men .
everyone is dead , alejo thought .
my life is a mess .
god , i ca n't think about anything but wara 's tortured eyes as she misses noah , or gabriel , shouting allah akbar and pulling the detonation cord .
alejo groaned and leaned forward onto his knees .
last night , after alejo had composed himself , rupert told him that , from the camera phone video , it was clear that gabriel had entered the restaurant in a tuxedo , apparently hired to play the violin in the restaurant of the hotel diplomat during lunch .
he had simply walked over to the table of the two israeli diplomats while playing a violin piece and detonated the explosives .
the early estimates were in favor of a death toll of over seventy .
i have to do something , or i 'm going to go crazy in here .
alejo stood up suddenly .
tabor was about his size and had left him a mound of clean clothes on top of a cedar chest in the corner .
alejo got dressed and padded out of his room on bare feet , towards the bathroom on the first floor where he and wara had been given rooms .
leaving the bathroom , alejo could hear the soft clink of silverware coming from the kitchen , around the corner from the end of the hall .
he found rupert cole , along with tabor and sandal , breakfasting on pancakes and coffee .
rupert was lounging in a worn , khaki bathrobe with the same woolly slippers on his feet .
sandal was wearing a tight red sweat suit that no one over twenty five should be caught dead in , covered in jewels and large silver letters .
her jet black hair was tied back in a messy ponytail , dark circles under her eyes .
she slowly nursed a chipped mug of black coffee , eyes flitting to alejo with a bare acknowledgement of his entrance .
alejo immediately pegged her as not a morning person .
tabor wore running gear and seemed chipper and alert .
he nodded at alejo and gulped the last of something that looked like a protein energy shake .
ru really wants you to stay , '' tabor said , languid eyes twinkling .
he made you pancakes .
the guy is a great cook . ''
alejo slid into a chair across the table from tabor , where an empty place setting seemed to be waiting .
he assumed that tabor and sandal must be some kind of agents in the organization rupert worked with , the job offer '' he had mentioned last night .
if he had to guess , he would say sandal was from iran or iraq , and tabor from israel .
rupert ducked into the kitchen and reappeared with a glass carafe of french press coffee , which he emptied into alejo 's mug .
good morning .
i assume you like strong coffee , '' he said in an even tone , then placed a platter covered with tinfoil in front of alejo .
the ones with nuts are banana mango .
then there are the german chocolate ones , too .
honey and butter are right there . ''
wow .
thanks . ''
alejo looked up at him and offered a tight smile .
he was actually glad that rupert was holding off on the job offer until after breakfast , because alejo felt like dirt .
i 'm impressed .
is wara up yet ? ''
no , she 's still sleeping , '' sandal croaked , looking up groggily from her coffee , which i would still be if certain people had n't insisted i go running with them . ''
tabor scoffed .
i do n't know why you did n't just stay in bed .
you only ran like a hundred meters with me , anyway . ''
you know i do n't do mornings . ''
sandal glared at him , then forked a bite of pancake rather violently .
she speared alejo with her bleary gaze , about to speak when rupert dumped two pancakes on alejo 's plate and clapped him on the shoulder .
you need to eat , '' he said calmly , but the tone left no doubt it was an order .
alejo reluctantly forced himself to eat and gulp down coffee .
when he had emptied his plate , rupert scraped his chair back and said , come walk outside with me . ''
glancing towards the hall and still seeing no sign of wara , alejo nodded curtly .
let me get some shoes . ''
i suppose i should change out of my bathrobe , '' rupert sighed , glancing down at his plaid pajama pants , fuzzy robe , and slippers .
he shuffled up the winding wood staircase , where alejo assumed her slept .
by the time alejo had retrieved his sandals and washed up a little , rupert was waiting outside the door on a narrow stone path that cut through the grass of his lawn .
beyond the lawn , a dusty area began where rings of tall barbed wire fences circled ostrich pens .
this is where you live ? ''
alejo shoved hands in his pockets as the two of them fell in step on a slow walk around the lawn .
this is my home , yes , '' rupert said thoughtfully .
i 'm gone of course , often , for my work . ''
your brother works at the embassy .
and you live here , in the bolivian countryside , and have an ostrich farm .
why would a gringo want to live all the way out here ? ''
rupert scoffed and raised one eyebrow .
do n't let my pale face fool you .
my parents were american , but i never applied for my american citizenship after the age of eighteen . ''
where did you grow up then ? ''
rupert grinned and raised one fuzzy eyebrow at alejo .
would you be at all shocked if i told you my parents were missionaries in morocco ?
the man you are looking at is one hundred percent moroccan , heart and soul . ''
alejo looked over at him and whistled .
wow .
a missionary kid .
morocco .
it 's a very nice country .
so , would you be at all shocked if i told you i 'm a pastor 's son ? ''
rupert 's calm eyes did , indeed , widen .
he recovered quickly and cleared his throat .
uh , yes , actually , i would ! ''
a grin spread across his face .
we make a fine pair , hmm ? ''
yeah , well you at least have been following the path of your parents .
the example my parents gave me when i was young was not one i wanted to follow . ''
there was a long pause , and then rupert said , i have n't always been on the straight and narrow path , walking in the light .
i 'm sure you would n't be shocked if i told you i used to be cia .
i worked at the top levels for ten years , with the cia for a total of twenty five years .
i was mean , ornery , and i would do anything to get the job done .
by the time i was fifty i was on my third wife . ''
alejo pressed his lips together , staring straight ahead .
ten years ago , the lord found me and called me into his kingdom just like that , from right in the middle of the places of power of the kingdom of this world .
i became his disciple and everything changed .
i had a new boss , and i could no longer do whatever the powers that be above me ordered me to do , when it was against the orders of jesus .
you know what i mean ? ''
alejo nodded , seriously .
well , alejo , i realized i could n't continue in the cia and follow jesus .
when i emptied out my retirement account to give to the poor , my third wife , ellie , left me .
so now , here i am , alone and with all the time in the world to do what the lord brings my way .
for now , it is this organization . ''
rupert 's voice drawled lazily , but his tone was intense .
they had reached the far corner of the property now , and rupert led them into a small grape arbor .
he lowered himself with a grunt onto the grass under the tangled mass of vines , and alejo followed him , sitting cross legged on the cool ground .
he now knew about rupert 's past missionary kid from morocco , cia , three failed marriages .
what he did n't know was what was going on now , in the present .
what am i doing here ?
i guess you brought me here for the recruitment speech , '' he said , measuring rupert with his eyes .
rupert smiled lazily .
i guess i did .
like i said , i want to help you .
but the fact you were recommended to me in a dream makes me think god brought you here for the recruitment speech . ''
alejo scrunched up his face , surprised by the thought .
we 're called ci , '' rupert told him .
short for cole , inc , the shipping company here in morocco my grandfather owned and gave to me .
we 've transformed the company into something a little different .
the agents who work with us are called lukes .
there 's a verse in the bible we believe in , and it says , 'the spirit of the lord is upon me , because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor , to bring liberty to the captives . '
we believe in that , bringing god 's kingdom to earth . ''
so rupert wants me to work with him and become a luke .
most of us in ci may not have come by our special skills in the best of ways , '' rupert continued explaining .
but now that we belong to jesus we want to use our talents to obey him , not give power and riches to the kingdoms of this world .
we work to save those who are in prison or in danger for their belief in jesus or their defense of human rights . ''
alejo 's temple throbbed and he felt himself grimacing .
of course , this was what he wanted to do .
when he worked with the prism , had n't it been to bring justice to the world , to help those in need ?
he could do this , work with rupert in ci .
but now ?
now alejo barely even knew who he was .
so much had changed .
i 'm ? really messed up , rupert .
what you 're saying is all i want to do .
but i need help . ''
i know , '' rupert said simply .
these are hard times .
what would you say if we prayed , right now ? ''
alejo blinked .
ok. '' when rupert had finished praying , alejo felt too weak to get up just yet .
i just need some time ? ''
he started to say hoarsely , but rupert was already heading out of the vineyard .
take a half hour , '' he said , eyes sparkling .
then i 'll be back .
we have plenty of time to discuss details about ci later .
there is one thing we have to talk about now , though .
it 's going to be good , son . ''
alejo could n't be sure , but he could have sworn that , just before rupert turned to go , he had winked .
the half hour alone under the grape leaves was intense , and alejo prayed and thought , trying to get his bearings .
he felt so relieved , being forgiven by jesus .
but there were so many things that were still messed up , other people he had hurt .
right now , i 'm thinking mainly of wara and my family .
an image of noah hearst 's very pale , grieving parents flashed through his mind and he sighed .
there did n't seem to be much he could ever do to make it right with them .
alejo closed his eyes , listening to the sound of songbirds in the fruit trees outside the grape arbor .
fallen grapes fermenting in the sun gave off the essence of sweet red wine .
rays of sunlight filtered through the leaves and warmed his face .
i can see .
it amazed him again , and he remembered the despair he had felt in univalle , when he woke up and realized everything was black .
alejo thought about the cool steel of the khan 's gun against his temple , the hurt of betrayed love in the pashto man 's red eyes as he stared alejo down .
he could n't remember the actual shot , but he was sure it should have been lethal .
god had let him live , and brought him here , to this place , to another follower of jesus who seemed to understand everything he was going through .
a dry crunching sounded outside the canopy of grape leaves the hanging greenery parted , and rupert ducked inside , downing something from an ancient olive green thermos with golden paisleys .
another red plaid thermos was in his other hand , which he held out towards alejo .
coffee , '' he said briefly , taking another swig .
you might as well know , i 'm an addict . ''
thanks . ''
alejo unscrewed the lid of the thermos and took a drink of the bitter liquid .
rupert really did make strong coffee .
another perk of working with him along with the fact that he had dreams of the future and seemed to hear directly from god .
rupert downed more coffee , then stiffly sat down in the grass at a comfortable distance from alejo .
ah , what are we doing here hiding out under the leaves and sitting in the muck like kindergartners ? ''
alejo grinned .
i have a slew of chairs over on the porch .
but it is kind of nice in here , is n't it ?
all shady ? ''
rupert settled in a little , then faced alejo squarely .
the time is coming to ask all your questions , but i want you to work with me .
if you accept , i would like to propose a time of discipleship here , at the farm .
what that means is learning to follow jesus , to be a disciple .
we would spend three months together , along with the other guys who come in and out of here , and i 'd teach you everything i 've learned over the years .
do you think i would drive you batty ? ''
maybe . ''
alejo paused .
but i need it .
i 'm kind of starting from scratch .
even if you find out later i do n't meet your requirements to work in ci , i think i really need to stay here .
since you 're offering . ''
he felt his mouth tip into a lopsided smile .
rupert seemed pleased .
i 'm offering .
after the three months , you would go on an exploratory trip with some of my lukes , to open your eyes a little to what we do and help you decide if you want to join .
i want you to know , too , that we can help your family .
i 'll tell you about that later , some very nice options of places they can settle .
i would love to meet them .
but , about wara ? ''
i really messed her life up , too , '' alejo muttered .
his relief was intense at the idea of someone helping him resettle his family and wara somewhere safe .
can you get a new id and passport for her , too ?
we could ask her where she 'd like to live , maybe close to my family ? ''
you saved her life . ''
rupert held up his hand to stop alejo .
and , sending her to live with your family is n't what i wanted to talk to you about .
last night in my office , you mentioned her a lot .
you talked about how she has great linguistic skills , makes even keeled decisions under pressure , and has good tactical decisions for a civilian , you understand .
so , son , i was thinking that wara should also stay here with us .
we need more female lukes , and with her coloring she would be able to pass as native in many places that a lot of the other women ca n't .
wara could work with us , '' rupert repeated , and you can help train her . ''
alejo felt his jaw drop .
umm , i do n't ? i do n't ? sir . ''
he paused , trying to think of something rational to say .
she does n't know anything about ? all this kind of life . ''
neither did you , when you started , '' rupert shrugged , taking a large swallow of coffee .
she can learn .
listen , son .
when we prayed today , we talked about god 's forgiveness .
what i wanted to talk with you about now is the issue of forgiveness from others who you have offended .
wara is a woman who has been hurt .
because of you .
unintentionally , but i still believe that god would have you make it right . ''
this was a totally unexpected turn of events .
he had envisioned his new connection with rupert helping his family and wara to a safe location , to happily start their lives over .
not wara in close proximity to him , who she did n't care for at all .
besides , being close to him was dangerous .
alejo , i have a sort of penance for you , '' rupert continued explaining to a dumbfounded alejo .
not to be forgiven by god , but to make things right and restore what you have destroyed .
because of what happened , wara 's safety , work , and the man she loved were taken away .
if wara joins ci , you can protect her and watch out for her .
you can help her use her talents for the kingdom , by sharing what you know so she can work with us .
and you can try to give back what you took away the man that she loved . ''
now alejo truly gaped .
what ?
i 'm sorry .
i do n't know what you 're talking about . ''
i 'm assigning you to love wara , and be the man that she loves in return .
i want you to take noah 's place . ''
alejo cringed .
he swallowed against a throat that was dry like sandpaper , then sputtered .
uh , that is a very bad idea .
wara ca n't stand the sight of me .
i 'm the man who blew up her bus and killed noah . ''
alejo felt sure that rupert would see the craziness of what he had just suggested .
yes , you did tell me about that , '' rupert remarked calmly , seemingly unfazed .
this is what i propose .
it 's pretty simple .
i think we should explain all this to wara about ci , the exploratory trip , and see if she accepts .
if she feels called to join and agrees to go on the trip , then it 'll be all settled .
you will do what i say , train her , and be the man she loves . ''
alejo had to really work to compose himself enough to speak .
sir , i would like her to work with you , because i think she would be good at it , and i know she can learn .
i 'd feel a lot better knowing i could keep an eye on her .
but i 'm 100 sure she would never accept , not if she knows i 'm here .
and would be her trainer ! ''
alejo could just see the look on her face now repulsion at the idea .
it 's never going to happen , '' he repeated .
why could rupert not see this ?
she might accept being a luke , but she would never love ? .me . ''
rupert waved one hairy hand at him .
it 's really not that complicated , alejo , '' he continued slowly , as if explaining something to a small , particularly dull child .
who was noah to wara ?
he was a man who loved the lord .
he was her best friend .
he loved her unconditionally .
you can do all this . ''
alejo 's mouth opened , then snapped shut .
he unscrewed the lid to his thermos with a vengeance and took a long gulp of hot , strong coffee .
besides , '' rupert was pressing on , i 've spent quite a few years in my day around guys like you .
i can read you pretty well , even if no one else can .
i know you 're interested .
in her . ''
coffee spewed from alejo 's lips onto his muddy knees as he nearly choked .
i think you 're already a little attracted to her .
c'mon , i 'm not asking you to crawl on your hands and knees from here to the vatican with a belt of nails around your waist , or live for a year on locusts and honey .
just a little penance , a little making things right .
you 'll be fine . ''
rupert heaved himself up from the ground with a loud crack , clumps of dirt clinging to his worn jeans .
alejo was still stunned , and he wiped coffee from his chin with one sleeve , watching rupert warily .
we should tell her tonight , at the latest , '' rupert said , walking towards the edge of the arbor .
apparently noticing alejo draw back like a deer in the headlights , rupert turned around and crossed his arms , annoyed .
i did n't mean we should tell her tonight that you 're proposing marriage !
jeepers !
for that , i 'm giving you some time .
all i meant was that we should talk with her about ci and see what she says . ''
alejo got up from the muddy grass , rather shakily .
you said that wara was in the dream you had , did n't you ? ''
he asked , feeling a headache coming on .
she was . ''
rupert seemed much too delighted .
god sent her to me , too , and i think we are just beginning to discover the reason . ''
with another wink , rupert disappeared into the yard , leaving alejo alone , standing in the arbor .
with a deep groan , alejo shoved his hands in his pockets and began walking towards the house .
32 white on wara 's fifth day at the ostrich farm , she allowed herself to admit that rupert 's pancakes really were delicious .
that morning , he had cooked up one pile with fresh raspberries and cream , and the other with bittersweet chocolate and dulce de leche .
the day before it had been orange butterscotch and strawberries with a wine sauce .
wara still could n't remember what she had had for breakfast the first morning she had come here it was all still a blur .
the night had been filled with violent dreams about noah and gabriel , and wara had woken up late , without the strength to talk to anyone .
on day number two , at night , rupert had sat down , with a very silent alejo , and presented the crazy plan in which she , a flabby linguist from montana , would become part of the organization rupert worked with , called ci .
she truly could n't imagine she would be any use she did n't know anything about all this spy style business .
but it seemed obvious that god wanted her here , and honestly , she did n't have the strength at the moment to spend hours analyzing why .
day number four was the day she had sat in rupert 's office and told him she would go on a trip to learn more about ci .
when she informed rupert that the answer was yes , she had been sitting in one of the plaid swivel chairs in rupert 's office , trying not to look at the blank computer screen where she had seen gabriel 's suicide video .
rupert stood behind alejo 's swivel chair , and his teeth flashed in a grin under his bushy mustache as he punched alejo in the shoulder .
so it begins ! ''
he crowed , obviously quite pleased .
there you go , che . ''
alejo smiled weakly at rupert 's words .
rupert walked over to wara and clasped her hand , shaking it warmly .
i swear i will take care of you like my own daughter .
of course , you can still change your mind after your exploratory trip , but if you 're who i see when i look at you , i know you wo n't . ''
now it was wara 's seventh day at rupert 's little ostrich farm , and tomorrow she would be leaving to fly to lima .
she would spend a few days with the martirs , then fly home to bozeman to spend three months with her family .
alejo would go to see his family after wara left them , and help them get settled in a new location that he and rupert had worked out .
then alejo would come back here to the ostrich farm to stay for the time until their exploratory trip .
i need time to heal , wara thought as she leaned back into one of rupert 's chocolate leather sofas and stretched her bare feet out on the coffee table .
her laptop was open next to her on the couch and she was alone in the living room , listening to the sound of noah 's voice .
until a few days ago , she had n't remembered that her laptop contained two albums of music noah and eduardo sejas had recorded in cochabamba at a studio .
maybe it was n't professional quality , but to wara noah 's voice was beautiful .
a door scraped across the wood of rupert 's living room and she saw the older man and alejo standing in the office .
wara , dear , could you come in here for a minute ? ''
rupert was grinning , as if he and alejo were in the middle of a joke .
alejo , however , had the pained grimace of a man who had just escaped the dentist after a root canal .
what plots had they been hatching in rupert 's office ?
wara reluctantly muted noah mid song and slid her bare feet to the floor .
she headed towards the office , where rupert motioned towards a swivel chair .
we 've already covered a few things for your upcoming trip , '' he addressed both of them .
and the rest we 'll talk about later , after you 've had more time .
wara 's flight 's leaving tomorrow , though , so it 's about time to put the finishing touches on her passport .
of course i have to make your docs with different names , since you 're both supposed to be dead .
now , '' rupert fought off a yawn and leaned into the swivel chair with a heavy squeak , i 've got you down as paulo . ''
he fixed his eyes on alejo , who grimly nodded .
paul , the man who , like you , was healed from blindness by god .
now what about you , wara cadogan ?
are you ready to change names ? ''
she had known rupert was going to ask her this he had warned her at breakfast this morning .
after pancakes , she had taken a walk and thought if alejo is paul , then i am peter .
once again she had seen noah beside her on the bus , holding her hand with eyes full of grace and saying those words you 're back .
at the seaside , after jesus rose again , he brought peter back .
peter swore with a curse he did n't know jesus and jesus forgave him .
jesus brought him back .
unfortunately , peter was not a good name for women .
thankfully , wara knew quite a few languages .
i 'm thinking about ? petra , '' she said carefully , trying out the sound of the name on her lips .
you know , greek for 'rock ' . ''
rupert 's eyes glowed .
it 's good , '' he said simply .
i love it . ''
the living room was dim as they left rupert 's office , closing the door on him as he powered up his spy computer to make some skype calls .
a single , white porcelain lamp with a scuffed shade was shining from the corner next to the sofas .
tabor and sandal were nowhere in sight .
preferring to say goodnight here rather than in the pitch black hallway on the way to their rooms , wara turned towards alejo , the words on her tongue .
but alejo was gone .
then she noticed him crouching on the floor in front of her , head bowed towards the floor .
he was crying .
wara , '' he said gruffly , i 'm so sorry . ''
he did n't remove his gaze from the floor and his hands shook .
i can never pay you for what i did to you .
please , forgive me . ''
wara took an unsteady step back and swallowed hard .
alejo was asking her to forgive him .
i 'm petra now .
i 'm here because he forgave my huge debt .
and now it 's time for me to follow in his footsteps .
the words formed very slowly in her brain .
alejo , it 's ok , '' she said , then slid down to the warm wood floor in front of him .
it 's all taken care of . ''
starting visibly , alejo lifted his head and peered at her with reddened hazel eyes .
but i ca n't ? ''
i know .
i accept that you ca n't pay .
i forgive you . ''
he let his head roll back towards the ceiling , then faced her again .
thank you . ''
he lowered himself down to sit cross legged as she was , not even bothering to swipe away the raw tears matting his eyelashes .
thank you . ''
she struggled to know what else to say to him .
it was one thing to forgive him .
trusting him was quite another .
but what good is forgiveness if it 's only words ?
one day at a time .
and it had to start somewhere .
there was something she still had n't said to him , and it was important .
thank you , '' she told him honestly , searching his face .
you saved my life .
you gave up a lot to save me .
thank you . ''
alejo blinked , then his face found a hint of the famous martir grin he shared with his father .
they sat there staring at each other for a few minutes , letting the moment sink in .
then alejo broke the silence , voice thick with relief .
so , we 'll meet in three months , then .
you 're going to see your parents ? ''
wara paused to consider , then decided to blaze forward .
yeah .
maybe you can call sometime , just , you know , to make sure that none of the bad guys have hauled me away . ''
she pressed her lips together and tried to match alejo 's small smile .
you are going to be pretty hard to get a hold of out here on the farm with rupert . ''
alejo blinked fast , obviously pleased with her idea .
should i give you the phone number to my parents ' house ? ''
she asked .
now alejo 's mouth flickered into a full blown smile .
naw .
do n't worry , wara . ''
the warm white light of the lamp glinted off his eyes as the two of them sat facing each other , she with a spark of curiosity , he with eyes making a solemn promise .
i 'll find you . ''
33 grape after the ostriches had been fed and all the fences repaired and in working order , alejo carried a wooden porch chair into the luxuriant grape arbor .
he plopped down in the chair , slinging his feet up on an overturned five gallon bucket he left inside the arbor for the times he was too lazy to bring a chair .
it had been two months since alejo had visited his family in lima , then flown with them to a medium sized city in italy , where they would make their new home .
since he had come back to rupert 's farm , alejo had been busy studying the bible with rupert and doing odd jobs around the property .
usually he was done feeding the huge birds by about five .
it was now winter in bolivia , leaving him an hour before sundown to sit out here and think .
it was crazy , but a lot of the time he thought about her .
he had talked to wara a few times at her parents ' house , short , uneventful conversations that still made him really happy .
in only three more weeks , he would see her face to face , and they would take a trip together to decide if they would work with ci .
as to the destination of the trip , rupert had kept silence , not even wanting to hint .
in reality , there were only nineteen days left until alejo would talk with wara in person .
less than three weeks .
alone behind the grapevines , alejo could n't pretend that he had n't counted the days a few times .
besides wara , no one should have the number of the nondescript little cell phone alejo carried in his pocket .
so when it rang now , he startled .
the number was n't hers , though .
alejo warily punched the talk button and pressed an ear to the speaker .
alejo ?
is that you , che ? ''
the hairs on alejo 's arm stood on end .
stalin ? ''
who else ?
oh my goodness , it 's been so long ! ''
alejo was stunned .
how did you get this number ? ''
relax , che ! ''
stalin 's tone was not cautious at all .
i 'm not with them anymore .
i 've run away , to join the circus , as they say .
as to how i got this number do n't ask .
let 's just say since i 'm the only living member of the prism who knows you 're alive , i 'm the only one who thought to have a look around for you . ''
you left the prism , '' alejo stated warily , crossing one leg over the other on the five gallon bucket .
yeah , che , i should have listened to you earlier .
after you told me what was going on about the poor kids being recruited and going over to do holy war well , i just did n't feel right .
and gabriel ? man , i ca n't even talk about that .
i still ca n't believe gabo 's gone .
but then that day , you know , at pairumani ? ''
stalin 's voice cracked and he swore softly .
alejo , i was a loser and a coward .
i just stood there .
i let ishmael shoot my best friend for being an infidel . ''
alejo found himself grinning , despite the contrition in stalin 's voice .
it was so good to hear from a friend .
yeah , well , there was n't much you could do , '' alejo said .
we would have been a pretty pair , both lying there with holes in our heads .
you did the right thing in the moment .
and from what wara tells me , you saved my life later , dropping me off at the hospital . ''
alejo could n't bring himself to mention the fact that gabriel had also been there .
yeah , so what happened to her ? ''
stalin asked curiously .
she go off back to usalandia to live happily ever after with some gringo ? ''
alejo snorted .
yeah , something like that .
she certainly was n't about to stay here with me to live happily ever after . ''
stalin may be out of the prism , but there 's no way he 's going to get any info out of me about wara .
so you got out ... what about lzaro and benjamin ? ''
both sent to another country in south america .
they 'll stay out of bolivia for a while , i assume . ''
and ishmael ? ''
alejo asked .
i have absolutely no idea . ''
alejo could picture stalin shaking his head , scraggly hair dragging over his bulky shoulders .
i hightailed it out of there after we got to asuncion , and took my parents with me .
they 're safely tucked away in japan ? i know you wo n't tell . ''
the conversation cheered alejo up more than he could have imagined .
stalin was alive and well , and possibly dining every evening on sushi and rice .
alejo assumed that ishmael khan would n't be showing up in bolivia for some time , after an anonymous call alejo had made explaining that the khan foundation was spiriting away bolivians to fight as mujahedeen , in the name of scholarships and higher education .
surprisingly , stalin kept in touch a week after his phone call , alejo 's cell shimmered with the alien sound that announced an arriving text from his old friend .
guess where i am ? ''
the little screen read .
alejo was debating between las vegas '' and disneyland '' when a second wave of sound announced stalin 's answer .
alejo clicked the sound off and read at mass .
yes , that 's right .
i 'm sitting here in spain at mass with about five little old ladies . ''
then , following quickly , and they 're all dressed in black .
is that creepy , or what ? ''
alejo pulled out the side keyboard , which he had used maybe once , and keyed in , despite the creepiness of black , are you finding what you 're looking for ? ''
the image of stalin , probably dressed in a t shirt that accented his beer belly and ratty old jeans , kneeling on the thin wooden rail at the back of the cathedral pew was extremely amusing .
it was also fascinating , given the fact that stalin believed he already knew everything about god and had said he would rather have his carnal pleasures .
alejo was sure the fact that he was nervously repeating mass along with five wrinkly , age encrusted spanish women meant that stalin was rethinking whether he was going to pay the price .
not yet ? there 's something here , but i still do n't know if i 'm ready .
but che , i 'm thinking about it . ''
another message came .
i was very impressed with you , willing to die for what you believe . ''
alejo hoped this was a good sign .
but then again , so was gabriel , '' stalin added .
i 'm still looking , che .
god have mercy ? he knows i 'm looking , but the women here in spain are so beautiful ? ''
alejo typed , do n't you want to talk on the phone ?
my fingers are cramping . ''
ca n't .
time to sing .
the priest is giving me the eye .
talk to you later , alejo . ''
alejo slid his phone back in his pocket with a smile and leaned his head back towards the sunshine .
34 lilac a country had never seemed so empty and hollow as spain did at that moment to stalin gomez .
while mom and dad had their hearts set on a little house in japan , stalin had known immediately upon arriving to get them settled in that japan would never be for him .
creepy , very creepy '' were the only words that described for him the temples with dull golden statues smiling pacifically at him as he passed .
the mlange of slippery sea creatures tacked to wooden planks with wicked looking nails would have been eerie enough at some sort of taxidermy for water creatures display .
the fact that it was in a part of the market meant for grocery shopping had given him the heebie jeebies .
with all the money he had pilfered from his bank account , stalin bought his parents a three bedroom house in a cozy neighborhood full of foreigners , a shiny silver lexus , and hired two servants to clean , cook , and fill the house with furniture .
then he had gotten back on the plane to a more pleasant destination , planning on sending his parents tickets to come visit .
they were n't that old yet , after all .
spain seemed like a perfect pick to settle down and hide .
it was warm , they spoke spanish , and rumors were that bathing was topless .
at first , the city of cordoba , where stalin had rented a nice flat , had seemed very cosmopolitan and smacked of europe .
all the excitement soon died away as he found himself lumbering down the gray sidewalks day after day , with no job , no steady girlfriend , and no friends to speak of .
the conversation he had with alejo that day in the coffee shop about jesus kept ringing in stalin 's ears , ever since he had realized that for alejo , the whole jesus thing was more than just an intellectual debate about which religion was right .
the exact moment stalin had realized this had been when alejo did n't flinch with a gun to his head and had said he would n't change his mind about jesus being god .
that had been a very , very heavy day .
today , stalin 's heart felt heavy as well , and as he left the massive cathedral where he had been at mass he bought a strawberry ice cream cone from a vendor on the sidewalk .
then he turned down one of the ancient , narrow side streets to meander his way in the general direction of home .
there really was no hurry in spain , no one went to bed before midnight , and at the moment it was just after seven .
stalin took a large lick of the sickly sweet ice cream , the tried to clean a sticky drop of pink off his lips with the paper thin napkin wrapped around his cone .
all of a sudden , he stopped , eyes falling upon a little sign with a picture of a white dove that said libreria la paz .
below , in smaller letters , it said , libreria evangelica '' .
a christian bookstore .
and a non catholic one .
something about the store drew stalin towards its rugged stone steps like a piece of lint up the funnel of a vacuum cleaner , but he hesitated .
he imagined himself walking into that store to browse books and finding himself swarmed by a pack of hunchbacked crones in black dresses and head coverings , who would then drag him over to a gold crowned image of the virgin and force him to recite the rosary until he was born again .
the glass door squeaked quietly and a little girl wearing a hot pink short set skipped down the steps , followed by a middle aged guy in a polo shirt who could have been her father .
there you go ? people younger than eighty come to this store .
maybe it has something for me .
realizing he had been holding his breath , stalin drew in a gust of air and then nearly shrieked , feeling the cold drip of melting ice cream soak his fingers .
he hurriedly licked all the way around the cold cone , then each finger one by one , glancing around guiltily to see if anyone was watching .
finally , stalin pulled himself together and clumped up the stairs to the bookstore , some part of him praying to god that there would be some books here worth reading that could explain to him more about what it was that would n't let him just put jesus at the back of his mind .
a bell over the door jangled softly as stalin entered , and he was relieved when the man behind the counter only waved politely at him , then turned away to let the customer browse the shop in peace .
it was a small bookstore , with white wooden shelves filled with different titles lining the walls and a small section for music and t shirts .
ignoring everything but the books , stalin began at one end , noticing right away that the volumes seemed to be rather thin .
remembering to keep up on licking his ice cream so it would n't flood the bookstore 's red carpet , stalin cocked his head sideways to better scan the titles , getting more disgruntled as he went along .
in one section , he found books with titles such as a new you in forty days !
, god can control your diet '' , and exercising for jesus '' .
puzzled , he moved on to the next rows of books and saw several covers featuring blown up photos of people with white smiles with flashy clothes .
god wants you to be rich ! ''
proclaimed one book with the image of a slick hispanic man in an expensive purple suit .
stalin 's brows drew together as he read , the ten day plan to secure wealth '' and plant the seed and it will grow '' .
a thin rivulet of strawberry ice cream escaped down the side of stalin 's cone and over his hand , splatting onto the carpet below .
a curse was on the tip of stalin 's tongue , until he remembered where he was and gulped , glancing over at the man behind the counter .
seeing the guy safely reading , paying no attention to stalin soiling his store and cussing , stalin turned back to the books , pretty confused .
he had studied christianity in depth during his masters and phd , of course , along with all the other religions .
they may not have been the most exciting reading in the world , but he remembered a plethora of thick volumes about theology and christian thought .
those books were not just a little weighty they were the kind you could use for weight lifting around the house , if you ever did such a thing .
where were those kinds of books here ?
the shiny books stalin saw lined up around this bookstore seemed to be about anything except christianity .
was n't there anything here that just told about jesus ?
plop !
stalin stared in horror as the mushy pink mound that was left on top of his cone slid onto the floor with one fluid motion , falling with a soundless whoosh onto the cherry red carpet .
now he did swear , albeit under his breath , then jerked his head up as he heard a soft chuckle , coming from nearby .
spiky , white high heels turned into long legs , then a flowery skirt and a tight , lilac colored jacket .
in front of stalin stood the most beautiful woman he had ever seen and that was saying a lot .
her hair fell to her waist , and was chestnut brown with shimmers of red .
with twinkling eyes , the woman was regarding stalin with amusement first his face , which he intuited must be a shade between lobster and beet red , and then the flattened pile of melting ice cream staining the carpet .
too hot for ice cream today , '' she remarked , and then twisted her waist gracefully to pull a packet of tissues out of her purse .
do n't worry this carpet is so worn no one will ever notice . ''
and just like that , she scooped up the fallen ice cream with a wad of tissues and tossed it into a trash can standing against a pillar in the middle of the small room .
stalin felt his mouth hang open as she raised her hand and he saw long , perfectly manicured nails painted lilac and silver .
most importantly of all , he saw no wedding band .
i 'm shannon , '' the amazing creature said , holding out one perfect hand towards stalin .
my father always loved ireland so he gave me an irish name . ''
her accent told stalin she was all spanish , however .
he forced himself to close his mouth and reached out to shake her hand with one of his own sticky ones .
many smooth things to say flooded stalin 's mind at the moment , but unexpectedly , all of them seemed out of place here in the middle of this christian bookstore , surrounded by the surreal sound of churchy music floating from a stereo .
instead , he said , do n't they have any books here that talk about something ? serious ?
i feel like i 'm in the self help section of some bookstore .
where can i find books about something like ? the atonement , for example .
or the theological arguments for why jesus was divine . ''
stalin found himself taken aback when shannon chuckled again , a deep , full throated laugh .
you wo n't find anything like that in here , '' she said in a conspiratorial tone .
if that 's what you 're after , the man you want to talk to is my father . ''
stalin blinked in surprise .
he 's the pastor of an evangelical church here , '' she explained , but he 's also quite a scholar .
my daddy has written three books , and he has a whole room for a library with all kinds of fat books about everything you can imagine .
there are a lot about the atonement . ''
stalin felt himself staring .
have you ever read any of them ? ''
a few , '' shannon flicked her hand dismissively .
ok , quite a few .
i 'm working my way through them .
i 'm getting my phd now and my thesis is quite ? theological .
so i get some studying time in , yes . ''
shannon pulled a purple cell phone out of her purse and glanced at the time .
daddy 's waiting for me at home now , so i 've really got to go . ''
heart sinking , stalin pressed his lips together so his jaw would n't hang open again , gawking at shannon .
then , in a magical , wonderful moment of awe , stalin saw shannon 's full lips open again and the words that she said were why do n't you come home for dinner tonight ?
a guy like you , interested in learning more about jesus and theology ? my daddy would love to talk to you . ''
stalin felt as though the flaming arrow of cupid had pierced his chest .
i 've really got to run , though , so make up your mind quick . ''
shannon placed the phone into her purse and half turned towards the door , beginning to walk out .
stalin took in the skirt , the legs , the high heels , and one millisecond was all it took for him to propel himself forward , like a dog hooked to a leash , towards shannon and her daddy the pastor who would tell him all about jesus .
the end s 0 cotton candy sky tehran , iran , 2017 to sami , the white hot explosion of sun that staggered him as the blindfold was ripped from his eyes was more brilliant than the glory of any starry spotlight where adoring fans screamed his name .
a rubber boot connected with his back as the rush of light hit his wide open eyes , slamming him to the pavement .
rivers of radiant colors stormed his vision as sami lifted his head , and he vaguely made out the city park and the crowds gathered , absolutely silent .
his life had been lived surrounded by multitudes , but today no one reached frenzied hands towards him in the hope that his own fingers would briefly connect with theirs between wild chords strummed on the electric guitar .
no one was rapturously snapping photos of him with their cell phone camera , plotting to show the blurry concert images to their friends .
sami 's eyes cleared enough to realize that he was encircled by uniformed police bearing the thick plexiglas shields that were synonymous with riot control .
they formed a writhing barrier between him and the crowd , an ominous warning to anyone who tried to capture the scene on a cell phone camera .
but still the crowds stayed , fixed eerily in place behind the police line , silent .
for nearly ten years sami had heard his fans ' hysteric screams and cheers , accorded to him as the lead singer of iran 's most popular rock band , ashavan .
today , under a baby blue sky sprayed with cotton candy clouds , the last sound sami would hear from those fans , warily planted behind the police in the park , was their silence .
today , while children raced up the slide in the distance and the ice cream man with his cart strolled by gaping , sami would be publicly beheaded .
kneeling on the asphalt , sami closed his eyes and felt as if he were watching himself from the sky , only a spectator to this gruesomely comic event a thirty year old literature major turned rock star , sentenced to beheading in the park for a list of unpleasant crimes .
but sami knew why he was really here .
something rustled behind him and sami snapped back to reality .
a guard yanked on the cuffs around his wrists , checking if his arms were secured .
sami 's ankles were also chained together , as they had often been in the four months he had spent in the maximum security prison .
get up , '' the guard ordered , dragging him to his feet .
a slimy smudge of perspiration marred the young guard 's right eyebrow as he avoided the prisoner 's eyes .
it was more than obvious he did n't want to be here .
over there . ''
a dozen feet away , circled by a dreary ring of hoary stones , a cement block protruded from the park square .
a murky stain began at its heart , spreading snaking tentacles across the surface of the block and down its sides lifeblood , spilled here under the sun after afternoon prayers in the past .
sami stumbled to his bare feet , barely aware of the sensation of his soles on the burning pavement .
once he had worn trendy italian leather shoes and jeans from paris that had cost three hundred euros .
today , sami 's feet were bare and bleeding .
he wore tattered cotton pants , stained from the floor of his cell , and a simple white t shirt .
the shirt hung loosely over his frame , muscles wasted away from days of doing nothing but praying in his cell instead of working out at an elite gym club .
even so , he still towered over the two guards at his side , tall and broad shouldered .
a collective gasp rise up from the myriad of dark eyes staring at him in the park and sami thought that probably the people gathered here today barely recognized him .
sami did n't mind .
the old sami was gone , and he was a different person now .
the new sami did n't mind standing barefoot in dirty white , sans ray bans and without beautiful women following his every move .
in a few minutes he would be dressed in pure white , screaming the name of the one who had made him able to sing in the first place .
c'mon .
i 'm sorry . ''
the young , sweaty guard who had a death grip on sami 's arm was named hourmazd .
they 're waiting , '' hourmazd said reluctantly .
you have to come now . ''
sami felt his feet slap across the hot , soiled square in slow motion .
next to the chipped concrete chopping block , the executioner waited in a crisp black uniform and aviator ray bans , gripping a saudi arabian scimitar .
at attention a few steps behind , two doctors in white coats stood watching the proceedings .
one of them held a dove gray tarp , folded neat and square this would be to wrap sami 's body .
at the prison , it had been explained to him that after the beheading his body and head would be carried off by the doctors , who would then reattach the two items and bury sami in full accordance with islamic burial laws .
none of sami 's family had any intentions of burying their wayward relative in the christian manner .
at the moment , whether his dead body would be laid in the ground facing mecca or not was the last thing on sami 's mind .
standing before the executioner 's block , sami 's eyes blazed across the gathered crowd one last time , not surprised to see neither his mother nor his father here to witness the gory sight .
several feet behind one of the policemen 's opaque shields , a pale face peeped out from under a nondescript black chador veil .
she came .
sami 's heart surged within him and he stared at her , taking in the last beauty he would ever see in this place called earth .
he met her weeping eyes calmly , intensely begging her not to cry and give herself away .
i 'll see you again , my sister .
and then time for scanning the solemn crowd was up hourmazd and the other guard forced sami to his knees .
hot fingers grabbed his temple like a vise , twisting his head to one side , plastering one cheek against the icy concrete .
a filmy coating of dust and pebbles had settled onto the block , and sami 's hand instinctively jerked forward to swipe the scratchy debris off his cheek , then pulled up short against the biting metal cuffs .
urgent hands still held him down , kneeling , and sami realized he was facing the crowd , saw that ava was looking up towards heaven .
i could have married you .
sami swallowed and his adam 's apple grazed the abrasive stone .
we could have gone away to germany or canada together .
we could have had six or seven little iranian babies , who would have grown up hearing about jesus every day and playing whatever kind of music they wanted , for him .
you would end up wide hipped and disheveled from all those children , and i would get bald and wrinkly .
but we would sit together by the fireplace every night with our children , singing with the guitar and loving each other .
a ream of black cloth descended in front of sami 's vision and cinched in a hard knot behind his skull .
the blindfold pressed his lashes tightly against his cheeks , leaving him blind , each beat of his heart echoing slowly in the darkness .
the pressure of the hands against his head and back disappeared and an unearthly hush descended upon the park .
the charges against him were read out loud , a list of things sami could never imagine becoming .
rape .
treason .
worship of satan a mullah began to pray loudly in arabic , and sami waited with his temple to the icy block .
in prison he had been warned if he moved , the blade could miss and he would n't be killed at the first fall of the scimitar .
a dove cooed overhead .
heart pounding in his chest , sami waited in the darkness , knowing that in just a minute more he would see the light .
1 karate gone bad she laid the guitar case on the smooth tree stump among the pines and cried , knowing only the trees would hear .
a few tears later she stopped , scrubbing her face on her soft tiered skirt , never one for prolonged weeping .
she let her eyes run over the battered case , balanced on the ancient stump like an offering , then carefully opened the dented clasps .
the honey colored taylor guitar still nestled in emerald velvet .
this had been noah 's guitar .
wara sniffed loudly and smiled , remembered him grinning from the stool at the front of the caf , playing this guitar and singing his heart out .
she cradled the taylor across her lap and began to pick her way through a few chords .
it had been three months , and it still hurt .
his arm had been around wara when the bus went over the ravine , but she was thrown out the window to safety .
noah had n't made it .
since then she had been here in montana , living with her parents on the ranch that was her childhood home .
life as a missionary in bolivia was over , dreams smashed to pieces with the shattered glass of the bus where noah died .
a new chapter was about to begin , and honestly , wara really did n't think she was ready .
staying here on the bench in the little sheltering circle of trees on the ranch was sounding better and better all the time .
a sharp crack sounded in the foliage .
wara tensed and huddled into the comforting familiarity of the guitar , totally aware that her reaction to the sound was overkill .
this was a ranch , after all .
squirrels and birds did live in the trees that surrounded her , and yellowed leaves were constantly crunching their way to the ground now that fall was in full swing .
but after the bus accident in bolivia she had been kidnapped and nearly killed by the muslim group who had bombed her bus .
so unexpected sounds made her a little nervous .
that was ok , was n't it ?
holy cow ! ''
she shrieked without meaning to , nearly dropping the guitar on her toes .
because all of a sudden , defying her expectations that the little noise would end up being a stray squirrel scuttling around in the trees , a solid male figure emerged from the shadows .
she fizzled with adrenaline , vision full of a broad shouldered man , skin the color of a mocha latte , wearing a black shirt and brown corduroys .
holy cow ! ''
she gasped again , less fear and more irritation lacing her voice now .
the intruder was now out of the shadows , holding up two tan hands in a gesture meant to calm her down .
the dark curls that had hung around his collar were gone , but those clear hazel eyes were unmistakable .
all the seven martir children had them .
wara .
it 's me , '' he said , only adding more fuel to the storm of adrenaline and annoyance lashing her insides .
alejo martir .
was here .
at her house in montana .
the ex leader of the prism , the group that tried to kill her .
he had been behind the bomb that killed noah on the bus .
and then he had left everything to behind to save wara .
you ? you scared the beejeebers out of me ! ''
she managed , feeling herself scowl .
she had never imagined she would see him here .
sure , in bolivia they had both been recruited by a man named rupert to work with an organization called ci .
wara had known she would see alejo again , next week when they set off on an exploratory trip to make their final decision about working with ci in the future .
but for goodness sake , she was supposed to have the weekend still to deal with this before seeing alejo again !
what are you doing here ? ''
she demanded .
yes , this was the friendly midwest , but wara recognized not the tiniest hint of welcome in her voice .
now , she was just plain irate .
and scared .
some of the spark in alejo 's hazel eyes faded .
last week we said we 'd meet up on the trip , since we 're both headed the same way .
and in bolivia i said i 'd find you .
and here you are .
in montana . ''
well .
because alejo had asked her to forgive him , they 'd talked on the phone for a few minutes every couple weeks since bolivia .
it gave wara the opportunity to say something decent to the brother of her best friend nazaret , instead of simmering with anger and resentment towards him for what he had done .
see you soon , then , '' alejo had said over her cell a week ago .
i i 'm sorry , '' wara exhaled slowly and closed her eyes .
they opened to alejo crossing the space between them tentatively , then offering a hand in greeting .
they cheek smooched mechanically , bolivian style , and alejo cautiously took a seat on the other extreme of the bench .
he looked younger with his hair shaved , face smoothed of many of the tortured lines that had marked it three months earlier .
the light in his eye flickered , begging wara to let it come back to life as she had promised him through forgiveness after what he 'd done .
she could let the light live , or blow it back out .
her heart hurt as she crossed her arms over her gray henley top and tried the hint of a smile .
i 'm ? really sorry .
i just really was n't expecting you . ''
i know , '' alejo 's lips twisted into a smile .
i just thought i 'd drop by so we could take the trip to morocco together .
i could carry your stuff .
and i , uh , thought i could see where you live , maybe meet your parents . ''
wara fought for polite words , all the while nearly swallowing her tongue .
meet my parents ? ''
she blinked hard against the memory of alejo 's first connecting with her face , the sudden gravity as she spun into the dirt and collapsed .
alejo pressing the hunting knife to her throat and dragging her into the forest .
this guy was a killer .
and her best friend nazaret 's brother .
and , insanely , her possible future co worker .
a little panicked , her gaze flitted around her little sanctuary of trees , the cedar bench that had been there as long as she could remember .
beyond was the house she had always known , her childhood bedroom , the living room where she 'd ripped open presents on christmas and drank coffee over a good novel .
ok , '' she blurted .
my parents are n't here now , though .
they 're both still at work . ''
fine . ''
alejo leaned back into the bench , seemingly content just taking in the shades of changing autumn leaves .
wara suddenly felt smothered , faced with the prospect of the next several days of his company .
what in the world were they supposed to talk about ?
she eyed him sideways , but he just sat there with that zen like tranquility , meditating on nature .
it was making her crazy .
i 've been taking karate .
per your instructions , '' she informed him just to break the silence .
alejo 's eyes lit up in surprise and he tore his gaze from the nearly naked trees .
good .
i hope you never have to get in a fight , but i feel better knowing you 're learning some tricks to keep up your sleeve . ''
alejo raised one eyebrow and grinned dangerously as he eyed wara 's long plaid skirt .
think you can show me some of what you 've learned ?
in that ? ''
why not . ''
wara frowned .
right now ?
like , fight with you ?
are you serious ? ''
sure .
i 've got to see if you 've been slacking . ''
his tone softened , and wara suspected he did n't really think she had learned anything but had only assigned her to learn martial arts to keep her mind off the unpleasant past .
besides , '' alejo 's tone was quiet yet challenging .
i do n't think you 'll turn down the chance to give me a few good kicks . ''
suddenly he was off the bench and a few feet away , feet planted firmly on the ground .
c'mon , do n't be nice . ''
arching an eyebrow that said she really did n't plan to be , wara slowly stood up , pulling a rubber band off her wrist to twist her hair into a rough ponytail .
in the three months since she had left bolivia , her dark hair was growing long and straight , looking a little more polished than the uneven cut she had sported before .
now , '' alejo was grinning solemnly , i do n't want to be too mean to you , either , since this is our first fight .
so for today i 'm just going to use beginner skills .
just show me what you 've got . ''
with that , alejo sidestepped around towards her back so fast she barely had time to register that he was going to try to grab her from behind .
whoa !
not ready !
wara 's eyes widened as she racked her mind for what she was supposed to do in this situation .
she had been going to classes every stinking day , after all .
even if alejo had told her to do karate to make her feel better , it had worked .
whacking and kicking things had ended up to be a very entertaining way to spend the last there months .
the correct kick flashed into her mind as she was already beginning to execute it out of instinct .
she managed to twist away from alejo just in time , feeling the thickness of his arms brush by her cheek .
ha ha !
apparently all the hours of practice were paying off !
but now alejo was coming at her again , ready to take a swing at her head .
moving easily , wara ducked to the left just in time , then rolled to the ground and shot a strong kick upward , barely missing alejo 's belly .
it appeared her muscles really were stronger from all those hours spent at okinawa karate studio .
man ! ''
he eyed her with something she could almost call appreciation .
you 're fast .
you could hold me off for a while with those lightning kicks .
unfortunately , because i 'm bigger , i can do this . ''
before she even knew how it happened , he had hauled her to her feet and had her against a near by tree .
there was no way she could escape his weight , and his steely grip on her elbows tightened painfully if she even attempted to move .
no , no ! ''
she shrieked , feeling the rage of losing and the powerlessness of not being able to do a thing about it .
blame it on being an only child , but wara hated losing .
get off of me ! ''
she grunted , and flung her head backwards just where she imagined alejo 's eye socket should be .
she actually saw a few white stars as her skull connected with his face , but the satisfaction of hearing him swear under his breath was more than worth it .
but that was her last move .
the hold on her elbows tightened even more , and alejo pressed her farther into the tree , his cheek plastered against hers .
ok , you win , '' she pronounced , speaking carefully since her lips were only centimeters from the tree bark .
you did really well , though . ''
the hiss of alejo 's breath in her ear was quite annoying .
i 'll show you how to do this hold i 've got your arms in .
someday , i hope you 'll be able to kick my rear in a fight ? well , at least if i have the flu . ''
wara glared , hoping he could see her scowl from the side as he pulled away from her and released the death hold on her arms .
a sharp crack sounded in the clearing .
wara 's gaze jerked upward as a flurry of dust and bark rained down on her head with the dull whap of an object slamming into the tree above her .
down ! ''
alejo growled into her ear .
her knees buckled as his weight slammed into her and they crashed to the ground .
her first thought was it 's a bullet .
someone is shooting at us !
alejo remained on top of her , and she flipped her head towards the source of the sound , more than a little frantic .
surreally , alejo had whipped out a gun and was in position to shoot anything that came into sight from behind the trees .
but instead of another bullet , a low voice cut through the clearing .
get away from her , or you 're a dead man .
next time i wo n't miss . ''
wara 's mind fuzzed over , unbelieving .
this could not be happening .
alejo 's forearm tensed around the gun as a lanky man in a denim jacket appeared , half sheltered behind a golden oak tree .
his eyes narrowed and he trained an unwavering shotgun exactly at alejo 's head .
do n't shoot ! ''
wara screamed at the man holding the gun .
it 's ok ! !
do n't shoot ! ''
she elbowed alejo roughly , face sizzling with chagrin .
get off ! ''
she gasped .
i ca n't breathe !
he wo n't shoot us ? it 's just my dad . ''
rachel moschell met and married her husband , eduardo , in cochabamba , bolivia .
they have three adorable children and currently live in beautiful cochabamba .
rachelmoschell hotmail.com im not crazy !
christopher david petersen copyright 2011 christopher david petersen smashwords edition climbing on longs peak the diamond , estes park co im the dark spot 1500 ft above the valley see that photo above thats just before all hell broke loose while climbing on longs peak in estes park , colorado .
now , i hate to be one for over drama , but when i say all hell broke loose , im talking fire and brimstone kinda hell .
some quick background first at the point in the photo that my friend isaac had taken the picture , we had been climbing for nearly twelve hours and were now roughly 1500 feet above the valley floor .
we had started up a steep snow face well before dawn and after day break , the skies looked clear and the winds were light .
it was really a beautiful day .
by mid morning , that had all changed .
the skies clouded over and with it , brought winds , plummeting temperatures and light snow .
no biggie , right ?
you say for most mountaineers , a few flurries normally wouldnt increase the pucker factor .
i wont go into the definition of pucker factor but trust me , a high pucker factor really is not good .
as it was , we were looking at a low pf , so i really wasnt too worried , but i did keep a watchful eye on the deteriorating conditions .
shortly after that photo , all hell broke loose .
the skies became angry and violent .
the temperatures hovered around zero and the light snow opened up into a full blown blizzard .
as the snows accumulated in the upper reaches of the mountain , huge pockets of that light fluffy white stuff would break loose and race down the cliff in the form of spindrift avalanches .
aside from the obvious death , spindrift avalanches really suck because all too frequently , they pour off the upper face above you and down the back of your neck .
has anyone every dropped an ice cube down your back ?
well , that would be a welcome relief to a pile of snow .
fortunately , due to my superior intellect , i was able to recognize the repetitive event after only being caught in them five times .
before the sixth dowsing of snow , i pulled my hood over my head .
i know , i know pure genius .
isaacs and my plan for the climb was simple .
we had planned to traverse the cliff a hundred feet more from that point in the photo , then climb the upper rock face of the diamond for fifty feet or so , then climb onto a steep snow slope above .
once we reached that snow slope , it would be easy but dangerous climbing to the summit .
no problemo right ?
or so we thought .
i have to admit .
by the time we were making that traverse to the diamond , i was tired .
i hadnt worked on my conditioning as well as i should have prior to the climb and the higher elevations were really wearing me out .
to make matters worse , i didnt bring enough food or water , so my energy reserves were pretty low .
to my relief , isaac led the traverse while i hung back and paid out the rope .
it felt good to hang off the cliff by a bunch of tiny slings instead of making that dangerous traverse , out on the sharp end of the rope as its called in climbing .
i hung under a large block that sheltered me from the spindrift avalanches above , while i watched isaac pick his way across the cliff .
little by little , he alternated his hands and feet as he moved sideways , relying on the hand and footholds to hold him to the steep cliff .
hanging there in the cold , the winds howled .
i could feel the energy draining from my body by the minute .
i shivered uncontrollably now and shook out each hand to knock some warmth back into them .
time seemed to move so slowly as i watched isaac cross that traverse .
every so often , isaac placed a piece of climbing gear into the rocks and threaded the rope through it .
if he fell , hed only drop the length past the climbing gear instead 1500 feet below .
halfway across the traverse , isaac stopped .
he was now at a point called the notch couloir .
the notch couloir was a wide break in the cliff that ran nearly to the top of the mountain .
it was far less steep and if viewing it from a distance , it could even be considered a mini valley carved at the top of the cliff .
i watched isaac stand like a statue , far out in front of me .
he didnt move .
he didnt look up .
he didnt look around .
he just stared straight ahead .
come on , sally .
grow some balls and move .
im freakin freezen here , i remember thinking to myself as i watched him stand idly by .
just then , the world went white before me .
an enormous spindrift avalanche careened off the cliff face above me and completely blocked my view of isaac .
holy mackeral , i yelled out only i didnt say mackerel .
no sir , that was a lot of snow , enough to fill up a couple of very large houses .
i felt the rope go taut and pulled hard to take up the slack .
i was scared .
i could feel that sickening feeling in the pit of my stomach as i envisioned isaac being swept over the cliff by the avalanche .
a moment later , as the last of the snowy dust floated on by , i could see him .
there was isaac still standing where i saw him last .
the rope had only gone taut due to the weight of the snow as it rushed over it .
isaac had not been swept away .
dude , you see that ?
i yelled out to isaac , but he never heard me .
i saw isaac look up toward the notch couloir , then shuffle quickly across .
facing the mountain , he moved his right foot to his right , then moved his left foot over to match it .
over and over , isaac repeated the sequence , shuffling across the cliff as he continued to stare up toward the top .
as he moved , i paid out the rope , holding him in case he lost his footing and slipped off the edge of the cliff .
i was his lifeline , but i had no idea if i could hold his weight in the event of a fall .
watching him cross , i looked down the full length of the 1500 foot cliff .
we were high .
due to the deteriorating conditions , we needed to move faster and place less gear on the route for protection during a fall .
i hadnt really thought about it before , but having time to analyze the scene , i now realized that a fall over that cliff could almost certainly rip me from my stance .
i felt damned scared , but buried my fears and concentrated on my job .
moments later , isaac made it to the other side of the snowy slope .
suddenly , i heard a loud whooosh .
isaac was gone again .
i pulled hard on the rope and locked off my belaying device .
then i saw it through the falling snow .
the mother of all spindrift avalanches creating a white cloud of snow that rushed down the snowy face and over the cliff .
oh crap !
i remember saying in my mind , but again , i didnt say crap .
i braced myself again for the tug that i figured would be isaac .
seconds later , the rope went slack .
as the snow clear out , there was isaac , still clinging to the rocks on the other side of the snow slope and he was grinning ear to ear .
duuude , did you see that ?
isaac yelled across the cliff face to me .
the rush of beating the tempest had his adrenaline pumping .
i could see he was scared , yet invigorated .
ok man , youre up next , he yelled out to me .
a sick feeling swept over me .
it was indeed my turn to run the gauntlet .
i looked around me in a futile attempt to avoid the inevitable , but finally isaac yelled back over to me again .
duuude , you got ta hurry .
lets go , he yelled out to me with deep impatience in his voice .
quickly i dismantled the anchors holding me to the mountain and started my way across the rock and snowy cliff .
hand over hand , i reached for anything that i could grab , each time , double checking that isaac was taking up the slack .
the rocky face was cold and now had a light dusting of snow on it .
my thin polypropylene gloves were great when the temps were in the forties , but now the temps were hovering around zero , rendering the gloves almost useless .
my fingers were so cold , they were cramping as i reached for my next handhold .
i was now become increasingly worried i wasnt going to be able to hold on much longer .
my survival instincts kicked in and i dug deep .
throwing caution to the wind , i decided to make risky moves across the cliff face , hoping my hands wouldnt fail before reaching the snowy slope of the notch couloir .
i moved quickly and deliberately , but with awkward lunges that continually held me off balance .
my heart was pumping and i could feel the anxiety building as i closed the distance on the snowy slope to my right .
a minute later , as my hands were giving out , i made my final step onto the snow slope where i fell forward and rested .
good job dude , now cross the couloir , i heard isaac yell to me as i lay and rested .
as if in a dream state , i heard him yell to me , and you got ta time the avalanches .
what ?
i yelled out in disbelief .
up till that moment , i hadnt realized the amount of snow that had been falling .
at some point out on that cliff , the snow increased in intensity from heavy to savage .
the snowflakes were large and accumulating at a rate of nearly two feet an hour .
with that much unstable snow above us , the spindrift avalanches were now rolling down the notch couloir every fifteen seconds .
crossing the 50 feet wide couloir would take all of that fifteen seconds , if you moved fast .
if you didnt , the result could be disastrous .
that much snow could easily sweep you off and over the cliff .
perfect , i remember saying to myself .
no sooner than i wisecracked , i watched a wall of snow barreling down at me as it roared through the snow slopes narrow valley above .
quickly , i dug my hands and feet into the snow and hung on .
i watched for only a moment , then just before impact , i buried my head down into my shoulders and braced myself for the terrifying wave of snow .
at first , the snow flowed over me like a gentle stream of water , but that didnt last long .
a split second later , i felt the full force of the wall of snow that raged over the top of me .
it taunted me , laughed at me , mocked my insignificant strength as it pushed and dragged me lower from my dug in position .
i could feel my hands and feet being ripped from their anchors and i focused all my energy on them , trying to embed them further in the hard packed snow .
as i began to slide , i felt the unmistakable tug of the rope on my climbers harness yanking me sideways as isaac fought to keep that malevolent force from dragging me off the cliff .
nooo , i remember screaming in my mind as my feet broke free of solid land and floated in space .
i was going over the cliff edge the cliff edge that perched 1500 feet above the world .
this was really going to suck .
suddenly , all went quiet .
as quickly as the avalanche came , it went .
i immediately crawled higher and leapt to my feet .
i gave a cursory glance at the cliff edge just inches below me , then over at isaac .
he was smiling duuuude , you almost cratered , man !
he yelled to me .
then he added , lets go , now !
i knew i had only seconds before the next wave of snow came .
isaac pulled hard on the rope , snapping me out of my foggy state and i started off across the open snow slope .
the snow was deep now , almost past my knees and i dug deep into my reserves to plow through the heavy mess .
forty feet , thirty feet , twenty feet i powered across the slope like a steaming locomotive , focusing only onmy destination .
i saw isaac look upward and i knew disaster was on its way .
harder and more determined , i plowed across the last feet steps .
twenty feet , ten feet , then i heard the roar of the wave from above .
i looked up and saw the next wall of snow roiling as it charged down the snow slope .
suddenly , i felt a hard jerk on my jacket , only it wasnt from above it was sideways .
isaac reached out , grabbed my jacket and hauled me into safety .
i looked back and watched my deep footprints vanish in a moments blink as the heavy wall of snow obliterated any signs of my existence .
dude man , you were almost a statistic pretty cool , huh ?
isaac yelled to me over the roar of the avalanche .
yeah cool , i replied grimly .
isaac had set up a bomber anchor system and for the moment , i felt fairly secure .
i looked over to isaac and he was now looking at a rock wall behind us .
ok man , we got ta climb up this rocky face , then step around the corner to the diamond .
thats where it gets a little sketchy .
well do that short pitch of rock , then step off that and onto the snow slope above .
sound ok ?
i remember isaac asking me .
i remember in my mind saying , hell no , its not ok. im cold , tired , scared and im pretty sure i need a new change of under britches .
yup , i replied dryly through gritted teeth .
what were we thinking ?
the freakin diamond on longs peak in the middle of winter what were we , insane ? ! !
whats the diamond you ask ?
only the mother of all rock faces in colorado .
its nearly 2000 feet of sheer and overhanging rock , that only the best and most skilled climbers attempt to climb .
fortunately , we were only planning on doing the very last fifty feet of it .
at least that was the plan .
that last section was supposed to be relatively easy climbing , but now , it was getting dark and the snows were really accumulating on the rocky surfaces that we were depending on for handholds .
hold me , i want to check out the diamond , isaac said to me .
i paid out the rope as he worked his way lower toward the cliffs edge .
once there , he grabbed a rocky handhold and extended himself out over the 1500 foot drop off .
he looked down for a moment , then to his left to survey the upper face that we were about to climb .
he stared at it for what felt like an eternity .
well ?
i shouted out over the howling winds .
isaac pulled himself back over land and worked his way back up to me .
no way , man it aint happening .
that whole face is covered in snow , isaac said .
we got ta find another way up .
any suggestions ?
yeah , sh t my pants , then use my ice axes to climb up the snowy mess in front of us , i suggested .
isaac looked up at the wall of snow , rock and ice that stood between us and the upper snow slope twenty feet higher .
if we could just get above it , the summit would only be a few hundred feet more of easy snow climbing .
isaac turned to me and said , ok , after sh tting your pants , go for .
i done sh tting you got me , i replied dryly .
i took out my ice axes , looped the lanyards around my wrists and approached the mess in front of me .
for those who dont know what an ice axe is , it is a miniature pick axe .
you swing the pick into ice and pull on the handle to climb higher .
its that simple .
i brushed the heavy snow off the rocks and searched for a handhold .
as i placed my hand on a nice blocky surface , it quickly slid off .
ice a thin layer of ice had now glazed the rocks surfaces .
it was no use .
using my hands alone just wasnt going to work .
undaunted , i decided to use the pick of my ice axes to try to climb higher .
i placed the front point into a tiny crack and pulled hard .
it held .
i pulled on the axe handle and moved higher as isaac paid out the rope .
this was scary climbing , with a pf pucker factor of about an 8 .
ice axes are used for thick ice where the front point of the axe sinks deep into ice , giving you a secure hold .
now , my axes front points were only held to the rock by shear gravity .
if i moved the wrong way , they could easily just pop off the rock and id fall not good .
i moved up a few feet to the outer corner where the blocky face above met the face of the diamond .
gingerly , i placed my axes on the glazed rocks and pulled hard , trying to get them to stick .
i then peered out around the corner .
isaac was right .
that diamond was literally covered in snow .
i looked up at the corner i was now climbing .
a few feet higher , it appeared that the texture became more blocky and easier to climb .
the problem was that id have to straddle the corner with one leg on the blocky face and the other on the face of the diamond .
id be hanging , literally , 1500 feet above the valley floor by only the tiny points of my axes .
got me ?
i yelled to isaac over the winds .
isaac must have seen the fear in my eyes .
he smiled encouragingly and yelled , youll be ok. my stomach churned as i looked down through the falling snow .
it was almost dark and i could barely see the large blocks of snow on the valley floor , far below .
my hands sweated even while they froze to the axe handles .
i was scared damned scared !
pf 10 i reached up and scraped off some snow above me , looking for a good placement .
feeling around , i located a tiny crack and slipped the point of the axe into it .
as i weighted it , i moved my right foot out onto the diamonds face .
with half my body hanging out over 1500 feet of air , i was now straddling the hairy edge of my raging fear .
i didnt want to look down i couldnt really .
something in my subconscious mind wouldnt allow me to do it .
suddenly , a wild blast of arctic wind slammed into my body , rocking me from my stance .
my feet skidded momentarily , then one popped off its placement .
quickly , i found another foot hold , but then again , another gust of wind slammed into me , knocking both feet loose .
in an instant , i was now dangling from my ice axes over the 1500 foot cliff , swinging wildly in the wind .
fear roiled inside me .
i lost my breath as i frantically searched with my feat for any type of purchase .
fumbling , freaking and fatiguing , i was running out of strength and running out of time .
i needed a miracle .
bam !
another gust broadsided me .
my left axe wobbled and popped out of its feeble placement .
oh my god !
i remember saying to myself .
is this it ?
is this how im going to die ?
i felt a tug then another .
isaac anticipated my fall and was now doing his best to reel in what little slack in the rope he could find .
i felt my body lunge sideways toward him .
he was nearly pulling me off the cliff .
as i flailed in the air , i made a desperate attempt to hook my axe on anything that would hold .
isaac tugged again and drew me in from the corner .
i reached for the blocky face and i scrambled my feet to find something to stand on below .
suddenly , my foot found something a nob , a tiny nob .
i stepped on it and immediately pushed hard forcing me closing to isaac .
for a moment it held then it didnt .
i sprung from the cliff once more , dangling again , wildly thrashing in the wind .
i could feel the veins in my neck pulsating with savage fear .
what felt like hours were mere seconds but it was enough to drain me of all mental and physical strength .
i could barely hold on any longer .
isaac tugged hard .
i made another desperate lung with my free hand .
the axe caught an edge and stuck .
my feet found a stance .
for a moment , it was over .
i found a respite .
isaac had somehow hauled me off the face of the diamond , pulled me around the corner and i was now standing a few feet from him on the blocky face above .
out of breath , out of strength and out of my mind , i jump backward and dropped to the snow slope next to isaac .
i collapsed in my tiny crater and rested .
duuude , watch out man , avalanche !
isaac hollered out .
moving on instinct alone , i rolled onto my stomach and dug my frozen hands into the deep snow as i planted my boots in below me .
i buried my face in the snow and waited .
the thick violent wave , rolled over the top of me as isaac stood firmly and held me with the rope .
i fought hard for my position , but was no match for the forces of nature .
with very little strength left , i was ripped from my position and dragged down slope toward the edge of the cliff .
abruptly , my slide came to a stop as the snow fought to push me further .
i felt the wave of the avalanche dissipate and i looked up to investigate my predicament .
there , standing with teeth clenched , stood isaac .
with his arms outstretched , he hauled back on the rope and prevented my slide off the cliff .
you just going to lay there lollygagging all night ?
isaac shouted over the wind .
quickly , i jumped to my feet and plowed through the deep snow , ascending the short distance between us .
so , what do you think ?
wan na give it another shot ?
isaac asked , grinning ear to ear .
if i wasnt so tired , id kill you right now .
so what ?
now youre gon na wuss out when were so close to the summit ?
isaac teased .
yes , i replied bluntly .
good call lets get the hell out of here , isaac responded in grave tone .
at that point , i was too tired to do anything but belay him back across the snow slope .
darkness had finally come and the snows were raging now , reducing the visibility to near whiteout conditions .
isaac ascended higher on the slope and waited for the next avalanche to pass through .
even before the rush had dissipated , he started off to the other side .
i paid out the rope through frozen finger as he plowed his way through the deep snow .
forty feet , thirty feet , isaac moved with determination .
he was nearly to the halfway mark , when i heard him scream over the wind .
hold me !
just then , isaac was caught in an avalanche .
the blizzards intensity had heightened , dumping even greater amounts of snow onto the upper regions above us .
the resultant snow created spindrift avalanched in greater quantity and ferocity .
isaac jumped to the ground and burrowed in as quickly as he could , but it was too late .
the wave of snow rolled into him , knocking him backward and dragging him down the mountain .
hold me , hold me !
i heard him scream out , now barely audible twenty feet from him .
i pulled hard and watched in desperation as he continued to slide toward the edge of the cliff .
as his slid , isaac rolled over onto his stomach and pounded his hands and feet into the snow , desperately trying to anchor himself to the slope .
downward he slipped twenty feet , fifteen feet , ten feet toward the edge of the cliff .
his boots seemed mere feet from going over .
as the wave slowed , so did isaacs descent .
he jumped up and tried to swim higher up the slope .
seconds later , he jumped back down once more and buried his limbs into the snows around him .
i pulled hard on the rope , holding him against the inevitable .
like a malevolent entity , the snow raged over the top of him again , threatening him , punishing him for his presence on the mountain .
as isaac fought for his life , he began his downward slide toward the cliff .
fifteen feet , ten feet , five feet .
i watched in horror as his feet broke through the crust of snow that defined the cliffs edge .
isaacs feet were now dangling in air .
like a man swimming through mighty river rapids , isaac flailed his arms and nudged his knees higher .
then , as quickly as the avalanche struck , it was gone .
isaac leapt to his feet and lunged through the snows as he fought his way to the far side of the snow slope .
he was safe .
its a cake walk !
your turn dude !
isaac yelled from the other side .
the gods of nature smiled down upon me .
i timed the avalanches correctly and sprang across the snow slope like a gazelle .
i remember the look of relief in isaacs eyes as i stepped beside him , barely making it past the next avalanche in series .
nice night for a walk , eh ?
he asked lovely , i replied in pleasant tone .
for the next five hours , isaac and i worked our way back across the mountain , then down the long and steep snow slope that lead to the valley floor .
fortunately for us , the blizzard slowed quite a bit and the spindrift avalanches all but disappeared .
by the time we got back to our camp , it was after midnight .
we had been climbing for almost 20 hours straight .
ive told this story before and usually receive the same reactions head shakes and the standard verbal remonstrations , why would you do that ?
are you freakin crazy ?
well , all i have to say is that a crazy man wouldnt have dangled from a solitary ice axe , 1500 feet above the ground , petrified beyond comprehension .
nope , a crazy man would have let go .
im not crazy .
ps years later , my friend isaac , tangled with another avalanche while climbing alone .
sadly , he never made it out alive .
thanks for reading .
if you enjoyed the short story above , please read the following sample chapters of tear in time tear as in torn .
tear in time christopher david petersen copyright 2011 christopher david petersen smashwords edition tt chapter 1 chattanooga , tennessee alton park region june 8th , 2005 life and destiny stood for one last moment , perfectly synced in time .
never again would the world see the past as they remembered , as one death would change the worlds destiny forever .
trae williams leaned to one side as he sat on his mothers decrepit front porch and watched his sister play in their front yard .
lena williams , an energetic eight year old , raced back and forth across the worn lawn as she chased after tiny moths that had hidden themselves on the blades of grass .
with each swipe of her hand , she expertly snatched the tiny white targets out of midair , then released them back to the world safely .
oh yeah !
trae , did you see that ?
lena asked proudly .
damn le , youre like a ninja or something , trae replied .
beaming with pride , lena replied , too bad mom cant see my skills .
shes working , le .
shell be home in a couple hours .
maybe you can show her then , trae answered .
moms always working , lena said disapprovingly , then added , too bad we dont have a dad like sharices , next door .
then mom could stay home too .
le , you do have a dad .
he just dont come around no more and sharices mom dont work cause shes lazy , trae replied as delicately as he knew how .
lena stopped running and sat down next to trae .
do you ever see your dad , trae ?
lena asked sincerely .
not for a long time .
not since before he went to prison .
that was before you were born , trae replied .
oh , lena said simply .
do you miss im ?
nah .
he wasnt around much , even before he got sent up , trae answered .
well , i miss my dad , lena replied .
damn , le , you never even seen im before .
how could you even miss im ?
trae blurted out in quick reaction .
i just do , traeim sure he misses me too , lena replied .
trae knew his sister was hurting from her fathers rejection .
hoping to take her mind off her pain , he searched for anything to distract her .
hey , le check out those moths over by the street .
bet you cant catch em all , trae said , with a challenging smirk .
bet i can , lena replied , laughing .
immediately , lena sprang to her feet and darted to the edge of the road , both hands sweeping through the air as she lunged for more moths .
trae watched her for a moment , then became distracted as an older buick with faded paint slowly drifted toward the stop sign at the beginning of their street .
unremarkable at first , the long length of time spent at the stop sign made the old sedan a conspicuous sight .
trae focused more of his attention on the car .
something just wasnt right .
he squinted hard as he tried to see through the darkened , tinted windows , but it was of no use .
the occupants remained a mystery .
trae began to feel uneasy .
the old buick was literally parked at the stop sign for what now felt like an eternity .
he glanced over to lena , then back at the suspicious car .
a knot in the pit of his stomach began to grow .
le , come here for a minute , trae said in nervous tone .
just a minute , trae .
i almost caught em all , lena replied , indifferent to the world around her .
trae saw the brakes release from the old buick , then quickly stop again , almost as if by accident .
he looked up the street to see if the vehicle had intended on pulling out but reconsidered due to another passing car .
strangely , there were no other vehicles in sight .
lena , come here , trae said .
hearing trae use her full name , lena stopped and stared at her brother for a moment .
she could see the peculiar look spread across his face as he turned back toward the mysterious buick .
trae , whats the matter ?
lena asked innocently .
dunno .
that cars been there a while .
maybe you should go in the house for a minute , trae replied , now feeling the anxiety of the moment .
ahhh , lena sounded out in protest .
i dont want to go inside .
its just a car , trae .
besides , i can take care of myself , lena stated proudly .
uh huh , sure you can just get in the house , trae responded bluntly .
just one more m. lena began , but was cut short by the revving of the buicks engine .
lena , get in the damn house now !
trae shouted loudly .
suddenly , aggressively , the old buick released its brakes and stormed around the corner .
with tires squealing and smoke billowing from behind the car , the old sedan charged up the street toward them .
oh no , trae murmured to himself , almost in sobbing tone .
with little time to react , trae sprang to his feet and hurried toward his sister .
lena stood paralyzed in confusion .
she knew something was wrong , but was too young and naive to fully understand traes actions .
trae watched in horror as the buicks dark tinted windows began to lower .
in seconds , his worst fears were realized as the occupants extended their guns out from the windows .
with deafening sound , their automatic weapons came to life .
as bolts of white light streaked from the ends of the gun barrels , trae lunged for lena , knocking her to the ground .
he instinctively rolled on top of her to protect her as a hail of bullets tore up the ground around them .
as the faded buick roared past , trae and lena lay motionless on the front lawn , their minds and bodies unable to react .
as time seemed to slow , trae could almost count the bullets as they exited the guns .
one by one , each bullet miraculously missed it mark .
trae looked into his sisters eyes .
she had not been hit .
suddenly , he realized they both were alive and had made it through the drive by shooting .
quickly , trae leapt to his feet , pulling lena up with him .
the sight of the two still alive spread quickly to the driver of the car .
in an instant , he slammed on his brakes and brought the old buick to a quick halt .
throwing it in reverse , he immediately roared backward down the street toward trae and lena .
seconds later , the driver slammed on the brakes once more and brought the heavy vehicle to a quick stop .
trae grabbed lena around the waist and sprang from the edge of the road .
like the stride of a gazelle , he bounded across the front lawn with amazing speed and agility , his adrenaline pumping at full capacity .
as the faded buick came to a stop , all its doors were flung open and four young men exited the vehicle quickly .
with their guns still drawn , they wasted no time in continuing their task .
trae leaped to the top step of his front porch and felt a sharp razor like object strike his left side .
before the first bullet could even register , a second bullet struck him in the right shoulder , rendering his arm useless .
instantly , lena dropped onto the porch , trae collapsing beside her .
an eerie quiet spread over the neighborhood as the four thugs reloaded .
knowing this was their only hope of survival , trae crawled to the front door and tried to wrap his fingers around the lower corner .
with his hand covered in blood , they slipped off the edge of the door .
le , get in the house stay low , trae ordered .
lena , scared and crying , lay beside her brother , unable to move .
lena , get moving now !
trae shouted .
im scared , lena whimpered .
ill block you .
go now hurry up !
trae assured confidently .
nodding reluctantly , lena quickly stood up and pulled the front door open as trae moved to shield her from the four men nearby .
instantly , a roar of bullets unleashed a swath of destruction across the front of the house , breaking windows and knocking shingles from the siding .
as lena began to enter the house , another bullet entered traes lower back , knocking him forward against the door , closing it momentarily across lenas body .
trae rolled to his side and dropped down onto the deck of the porch once more .
trae !
lena cried out in fear and disbelief .
lena , get inside .
go , now !
trae said , his voice now barely audible .
no , i can help you , lena replied with determination .
before trae could protest , lena reached down and grabbed him by his shirt .
she pulled with all her might as trae pushed with his feet .
suddenly , lena exhaled abruptly and sounded a guttural moan , as a bullet struck her in the chest .
immediately , she slumped to the ground , then rolled over on top of trae .
with both victims down , the four thugs ran back to the waiting car and sped off .
once again , an eerie quiet swept over the neighborhood as the neighbors , one by one , ventured out into the warzone .
further south , along signal mountain , dr. phineas morgan stood on his wooden deck .
perched high above the valley floor , he stared out toward northern chattanooga and tried to shut out the images of carnage that had just taken place.from his location a few miles away , he could not see the muzzle flashes , nor did he hear the gunshots but strangely , he knew exactly where the shots were fired and who they were fired upon .
sadly , he checked his watch 10 30am .
in a moment of solemn respect , he uttered a few simple words , forgive me lena .
your death will save thousands .
turning away , he stared out over the city and spoke .
the dominoes of destiny are now tumbling ... godspeed , david .
t t chapter 2 chattanooga , tennessee , june 7 , 1862 8 30am the tennessee river quietly flowed south and west as it made its way past missionary ridge , toward the city of chattanooga .
the april rains were now a month past and the wild and raging torrent that threatened to breech the swollen banks was now a gentle lazy river that quietly meandered its way through the valley .
the muddy water that had angrily lapped the rivers banks receded some , leaving heavy , waterlogged brush and debris drying in the morning sunshine.soft and tranquil , the water trickled past the fallen branches that scraped the surface of the river , catching any unsuspecting object that dared to tempt its grasp .
flowing placidly south into the city , the river touched the edge of civilization , then abruptly changed course and headed north , past signal mountain .
several miles later , changing course once more , it looped around the mountain and continued its previous direction south , carrying with it the tiny bits and fragments of an industrialized city hard at work .
sitting patiently on an elevated boulder , a young boy hung his makeshift fishing pole over the water in an attempt to catch his breakfast .
looking toward the city , he could see the tall smoke stacks that emitted the evidence of men toiling at work .
a light , gentle breeze blew across the valley of high plains grasses , carrying with it the fragrance of fresh cut hay and wildflowers .
the breeze brushed past his face , filling his tiny nostrils with the scent of nature , and sending warm contentment throughout his body as the sun shined down upon him .
he reveled in his independence as he envisioned other boys suffering through school while he enjoyed his day of truancy .
further up river , leaving the city limits , a raft made from hastily hewn logs of birch were haphazardly strung together with cord and vine , creating an unstable , yet functional mode of travel .
dirty and bedraggled , the two aged trappers floated downstream , extending into the water , long poles made from pine saplings , skillfully placed to navigate the many bends in the river on the way to their next destination .
inside the city limits , at the sharpest bend in the river , a small force of confederates guarded the main dock and prepared to unload supplies .
in the morning sun , under the direction of the regimental captain , the men formed a human chain that led from boat to horse drawn wagons .
hand over hand , they passed the goods and ammunition from one soldier to the next in sequence , until the final soldier arranged and stacked the supplies neatly in the back of the wagon .
at this hour of the day , the sun sat lower in the cloudless sky , warming the temperatures to a comfortable seventy degrees .
if it were not for their thankless duty to task , the soldiers would normally have enjoyed the balmy climate .
as it was , their heavy labor created torrents of salty sweat that streamed down their faces , and soaked through their cotton shirts and heavy gray uniforms .
when the wagon had been completely filled , the driver snapped the reins to the team of horses and started off to their encampment , whereupon the next driver in line took his place for loading .
beyond the dock , a local merchant swept off the elevated wooden walkway in front of his general store .
a small cloud of dust rose in the air as he briskly cleared away the caked mud that had collected between the wide spacing of the wooden boards that ran the length of the street .
at the rear entrance , a young man helped load heavy sacks and other supplies into a waiting wagon to be delivered to a local resident .
further up the boardwalk , the blacksmith and livery were hard at work , attending to the needs of the community as well as those of the confederate officers that had entrusted their belongings to their care .
at the center of the industrious town , off the open green , the one room schoolhouse bustled with activity and the sound of childrens voices , as they recited passages pulled from the important authors of the day , such as twain , thoreau , dickens and blake , each childs voice as distinctive as the passage they read .
beyond the main thoroughfare , on the secondary and tertiary roads , tiny houses dotted the roads leading out of town .
hung on public display , tiny diapers , socks , shirts , dresses and other freshly washed articles of clothing were draped over the makeshift clotheslines and pinned in place with wedges of wood , and allowed to dry in the brilliant sunshine as the matron of the home moved through her chores of the day .
this day began as any other day monotonous and routine , men , women and children alike , functioning in their singular importance while contributing to the whole of their society .
unsuspecting and mostly indifferent to the violent world beyond their borders , they went about their lives , contented in their own daily struggles .
on the opposite side of the river , hidden in the dense thicket and underbrush , several companies of union sharpshooters lay in wait .
quietly and undetected , they had moved to the rivers edge , sneaking in under the protection of darkness .
perfectly concealed , they laid on their stomachs and waited for their signal .
they watched in anxious fascination as the confederates on the opposite side of the river worked to unload their delivered supplies .
with their rifles aimed at their targets , they whiled away the time by calculating windage and elevation .
time seemed to slow as they waited on their signal of death .
at two hundred yards away , they were well aware of their ability to hit their mark .
spread out shoulder to shoulder , they presented a menacing sight .
the wait seemed to go on forever .
shifting their weight from side to side , they tried to alleviate their discomfort .
as their arms and legs fell asleep , they shook them out , recirculating the blood through their extremities , gaining the feeling in their hands and feet once again .
for an unlucky few , insects presented more of a distraction than the lack of feeling in their limbs .
with regularity , ants returning to their nest would find their passage blocked by the hulking mass in blue .
upon investigation , the ants angrily attacked any bare skin , biting and pinching in a futile attempt to drive away the enemy .
their feeble assault was met with equal aggression as the soldier swatted and crushed his irritating attackers .
time was their enemy .
waiting quietly in the underbrush , each soldier pondered his own fate .
any attempt to push the morbidity from their minds proved fruitless , as they watched the enemy in their sights , reminding them again of the possibility of their own forthcoming violent death .
searching for solace , they turned to their companions , whispering inquiries about families and future.in return , they received warm reassurance as the sound of their comrades whisper helped to sooth their deep worry .
having sat through the bite of cold as they crawled in under darkness , hunger pangs from lack of food , and the contemplation of death , the union volunteers of the 79th pennsylvania were ready and determined to complete their task .
up in the foothills , away from the edge of the river , the union artillery waited on their orders from gen. james negley .
high on his horse , barrel chested and confident , he posed an impressive figure .
he sat pensively and observed the scene below .
lifting his spyglass to his eye , he continued to look for weakness and opportunity .
with an authoritative voice , he redirected cannons down the line to specific targets as he developed his impromptu battle plan .
as the union soldiers manned their stations of artillery , they looked out over the valley at the confederate soldiers drilling in formation in an open field far on the opposite side of the river .
several cannons were already directed toward them , but with a quick nod of his head , gen. negley ordered additional cannon support on that location .
feeling somewhat detached from the confederates impending doom , they obeyed their orders and indifferently aimed the deadly weapons at the center of the field .
standing by their designated cannon , each soldier mentally prepared himself for the battle .
at their elevated position , and protected by the river , they all felt relatively safe that is , safer than their comrades below by the river .
they had survived the previous years battles , and were well seasoned in their trade .
they knew there would be casualties , but felt relatively sure that with the element of surprise , the battle would be fairly one sided .
they looked down at their comrades who had crept up to the river 's edge just before dawn .
a sense of sadness and anxiety come over them , knowing they were in harms way .
any retaliation by rebel forces would start with them .
well hidden in the thickets , the confederate soldiers would have a tough time distinguishing the exact locations of each union soldier .
the confederates would hear the sound of the union rifles and fire in that direction .
most of the boys in blue would be lucky , and escape the wild and harried volleys of lead .
some would not .
the previous day , june 6th , dr. jeb morgan prepared one of the supply wagons as a makeshift operating table in preparation for the impending battle .
as a commissioned medical officer in the regular union army , he held the rank of captain .
serving in the military for most of his life , he was no stranger to the horrors that warfare could bring .
his battlefield experience was extensive , having served in the mexican american war of 1846 1848 , various indian campaigns , and now the war between the states .
dr. morgan was a short , stout , older man of sixty , with a full head of white hair , a long , white , flowing beard , and piercing blue eyes .
having dodged mexican bullets and fought hand to hand with indians , he possessed an inner strength and courage , as well as intelligence , that were uncommon for most , distinguishing himself for his skill with a firearm as well as a scalpel .
recognized for his abilities , he had been offered lofty positions at comfortable hospitals of his choosing , yet rejected the honor , preferring instead to remain in the field , saving a greater number of lives much to his superiors dismay .
far behind the union front line , the doctor had searched for a suitable location to operate .
in a protected grove of birch trees , he found a large flat area with lush green grass .
as the principal surgeon for the brigade , it was his job to ensure a site that was far enough from the action to allow for undistracted work , yet close enough to the front lines for quick evacuation and treatment .
ordinarily , dr. morgan preferred the protected confines of houses and barns , commandeered from private citizens at the onset of battle .
with the battle for chattanooga started from a location far removed from civilization in order to preserve the element of surprise , the wooded clearing would have to suffice .
the previous day , while gen. negley prepared his battle plan , dr. morgan scoured the foothills near signal mountain on horseback .
as he rode up through the rolling terrain , the trees and vegetation became less dense , allowing him to catch glimpses of the city .
leveling off , he rode through the forest of white birch , weaving a path around the denser areas until he found the clearing.immediately , he recognized the qualities of the find .
he deduced the small field would allow for bright light to operate by , and the trees at the clearings edge would provide comfortable shade to the wounded as they recovered .
it wasnt perfect , but he felt he had worked in worse conditions while fighting in the west .
this would certainly be more tolerable as long as the good weather held .
after locating the medical encampment , dr. morgan quickly summoned a wagon to be used as an operating gurney and prepared his instruments .
with the canopy removed , he neatly arranged his supplies on the right side , along the length of the wooden side bracing .
within arms reach , he placed his instruments first a basin and canteen of water next then cotton batting and other bandages last .
at the head of the wagon , he arranged the necessary supplies for the assistant , such as chloroform , bandages , and morphine in powder form , as well as opium as an analgesic .
with the preparation for surgeries in place , he rejoined the front lines , offering his assistance where he could , leaving an assistant to watch over their makeshift hospital in his absence .
the following day , june seventh the day of the battle dr. morgan woke early after a restful night 's sleep under one of the many cannons aimed at the city .
he was offered a tent for accommodation , but declined special privilege , electing to rough it under a cannon instead of putting others out .
a selfless man , he figured the boys that were fighting and dying should at least be granted the small pleasure of the comfort of a tent .
after years of adapting to the rigors of warfare , he learned to sleep wherever he laid his head .
the dawn of the new morning created cool dew that had soaked through the unprotected parts of his body , mainly his legs and boots , producing mild discomfort .
by 8 30am , his clothing had dried out completely and he focused on his duties of the day .
filling up on hardtack , a hard , flavorless cracker , and some water , he administered various remedies to the soldiers that had reported for sick call while he ate .
of the thirteen men reporting various symptoms , only one was deemed incapacitated.suffering from acute dysentery , he was given a mixture of quinine and dover 's powder , and sent to the medical encampment for recovery .
dr. morgan was a compassionate and sympathetic older man , but tough nonetheless .
his private philosophy was , if you can walk , you can fight . ''
with his duties accomplished for the moment , gen. negley ordered dr. morgan to his station with a reverent nod .
no words were exchanged .
they both were seasoned military men who understood each other implicitly .
with a respectful salute , the doctor turned and walked past the soldiers readying themselves at their own stations .
he could now see the woeful anxiety on their faces as he made his way past , and he flashed them a courteous smile , trying to ease their worry .
locating his horse , a dark brown canadian stallion called bill , named for an old friend that had died at the hands of an indian ambush years before , he mounted the saddle , adjusted his boots in the stirrups , and with a quick snap of the reins , turned and rode off toward safety .
fire !
with his sword lifted to an exalted position above his head , gen. negley roared the order to commence firing .
loud and with great authority , he repeated his simple command over and over as he rode up the line .
instantly , his men responded and lit the fuses to their cannons .
like violent demons , the cannons came to life as they reported with a thunderous roar , shaking the ground under them .
instantly , the fresh and clear morning air became a heavy cloud of smoke that stung their eyes and seared their nostrils with the foul stench of sulfur , as the powder quickly burned and discharged through the breech of the cannon.the deafening cacophony of cannon and soldier startled the birds and jarred other wildlife from their morning routine , instinctively sending them scrambling for cover .
the well trained soldiers began their work .
in groups of three , one loaded the powder and wadding , one loaded the shell or heavy ball , and the third lit the charge .
they were as a machine , working in perfect sequence and timing to efficiently deliver unto the enemy , their deadly payload .
whistling through the air , the shells and cannonballs picked up particulates of dust and small flying insects as they arced across the valley toward chattanooga , killing anything in their path before reaching their final destination .
the valley below became awake .
the loud cannon fire from above signaled the sharpshooters below to unleash their own deadly volley of destruction .
in reflex , they pulled their triggers and sent the tiny , yet deadly pieces of lead on their individual paths of doom , as they quickly reloaded their weapons with practiced speed .
they had only a second to think .
with a startled jolt , the town and the confederate soldiers both stood in place as their minds tried to quickly process the disbelief of their forthcoming death .
unable to move , they heard the whistle of air as the projectiles hurled toward them .
those with their backs to the volley waited and listened as the whistle grew quickly louder , into a thunderous rush of air .
those facing the volley watched in disbelief as they quickly trained their eyes on the direction of sound , watching the heavy ball and tiny bullets disrupt the air in front of them just before impact .
as fate and misfortune collided , so did shell and flesh .
in the group of drilling confederate soldiers , the first volley hit its mark with deadly accuracy .
one unlucky private watched in horror as a shell found its mark in the chest of the unlucky companion marching in front of him .
the shell tore through his uniform , flesh and ribcage , instantly killing him even before the shell 's internal mechanisms sensed the pressure of impact .
with a great explosion , the canister fragmented into thousands of tiny projectiles , completely disintegrating the whole of the soldiers existence .
there would be no burial for him , as there was not a remnant left of his body .
continuing on their way , the fragments of the now exploded shell found their next victim in the watching soldier .
as the hot pieces of metal tore through his body , it severed his extremities , as well as buried molten metal into his own chest .
deflected , yet still deadly , the fragments found other victims all around the location of impact , sending blood , torn limbs and other shredded body parts into their fellow soldiers .
for a lucky few who escaped the initial impact , the concussion from the shockwave of the explosion ruptured their eardrums , disorienting them and rendering them useless .
as other shells exploded into and around the stunned , helpless soldiers , the same gory results affected the devastating loss of the entire company .
along the waterfront , the confederate soldiers that were unloading supplies met with the same fate as their drilling comrades .
shells fell around them , exploding into thousands of fragments and tearing through their bodies , killing the closest to impact while maiming and impairing others further away from the epicenter .
cries of agony could be heard as they fell .
as the union sharpshooters unleashed their hail of shot , balls of lead sailed through the air with an awful shrill , telegraphing their intentions .
the bullets found their mark , tearing through gray cloth , violently ripping through flesh and bone , and creating large , gaping wounds for germs and disease to enter the body unrestricted .
collapsing to the ground , many screamed out in agony , clutching their bleeding wounds in a desperate attempt to relieve the pain as death quickly overcame them .
others lay in torment as hypovolemic shock quickly enveloped their bodies from the loss of blood .
all around the city , that first barrage of munitions inflicted devastating damage .
not only was the confederate encampment targeted loading docks on the river , telegraph offices , livery stables and blacksmith shops were also targeted .
anything that could be used to further the confederates cause was targeted in the first volley of union fire .
within seconds of the first discharge from the union rifles and cannons , another round quickly sounded , followed by a third and fourth volley .
the murderous fire seemed unrepulsed at first , but slowly , the confederate soldiers that had not been wounded , and others that had not been targeted withdrew and regrouped to form a defensive line at various points around the city .
with determined anger , positioned behind a breastwork of wagons and supplies , a band of confederates located both sources of gunfire coming from the opposite side of the river and higher up in the foothills , and unleashed their first of many volleys of retaliation and repel .
as union soldiers lay on their stomachs and reloaded , they heard the sound of lead crashing through the branches and thickets above them as the confederates searched for their targets by trial and error .
with the next round by the union sharpshooters , more confederates lay dead and wounded , but with this volley came a pinpointing of the unions exact positions .
with orders to aim low , the confederates returned fire into the lower banks of the river .
cries of pain and agony testified to the confederates skill , as several union soldiers now lay dead and permanently maimed , slowly reducing their effective force .
just as with the confederates , the union soldiers now were on the defensive , and scrambled for a moment , regrouping into a smaller fighting force .
unbeknownst to the union command , out beyond the city limits , the confederates loaded several cannons .
tucked away in a grove of tall oaks for protection from the elements , they were easily missed by their opposing force .
quickly , the three man teams loaded their cannons and took careful aim at the union battery .
with the command to fire at will , the confederates opened up on the union forces staged in the foothills of signal mountain .
with visibility drastically reduced by the repeated cannon fire , the union forces struggled to see targets .
by the time the union artillery brigade saw the heavy smoke from the confederate volley , it was too late .
as the scream of the fragmentation canisters telegraphed their arrival , the union soldiers could only stand and watch in horror as the tiny projectiles grew larger in their vision , the speed leaving them little else to do but stand and watch their impending death .
the first of the four canisters roared into camp and impacted the ground between two cannon batteries , immediately exploding into tiny shards of twisted and molten metal .
instantly , the thousands of fragments traveled from the point of impact and found the first of their victims in the two union soldiers that stood between the two cannons .
within a blink of an eye , their bodies absorbed most of the fragments , nearly obliterating any proof of their existence .
blood and bone splattered the two cannons in a characteristically horrific pattern of death and destruction .
as the fragments deflected and ricocheted off objects human and metallic , their destruction was devastating , in all , killing and maiming nine union soldiers .
a split second later , two more canisters roared in after the first , these two impacting the bluff just below the union 's cannoning .
although the projectiles embedded in the earth and exploded , their destructive intention would not be denied .
the soil heaved and broke apart , sending large amounts of fast moving granules of dirt and pebbles toward the union battery , ripping into flesh , maiming several union men hard at work , the force knocking them to the ground in agonizing pain .
the last canister rocketed over the heads of the union soldiers and hit a birch tree high up in its trunk , exploding and instantly amputating its upper half from the lower .
the crash of the tree as it hit the ground went unnoticed as the union forces turned their destructive force onto the cloud of confederate smoke far out beyond chattanooga .
with a wave of his sword , gen. negley bellowed the order to silence the cannons at the far edge of town .
quickly , the teams of three jockeyed their cannons toward the fading confederate smoke , calculated the angle of trajectory , and lit their charges .
the repositioned cannons came to life as their muzzles spewed fire , smoke , and metallic death , the recoil sending them reeling backward against their restraints .
seconds later , far out beyond the city proper , primary explosions could be seen as the shells hit their targets , followed by several secondary explosions , signaling the destruction of enemy ammo caches that had ignited as a result of the primary detonation .
violently jolted from his lazy stare up river , the young boy sitting on the elevated boulder fishing for his breakfast nearly fell into the water in reflex to the loud explosions .
he quickly gathered his things and jumped from rock to rock , desperately fleeing for cover .
still at the bank of the river , he found two large boulders to hide behind , giving him safe cover during the violent exchange .
closer to the action , the two bedraggled trappers , upon hearing the deafening explosions that were killing their countrymen , quickly deduced that their only safe escape was to continue their poling down river .
any attempt to make land might expose them as combatants and draw fire from either side .
they grabbed their poles even harder and strained to push the tiny raft faster down river .
hand over hand , they pushed on the flimsy poles , nearly breaking them as they rushed to evade harms way .
painful blisters formed and quickly broke , leaving fresh blood along the length of the poles as they continued to push for their lives .
standing on the left side of the raft , without warning , a single stray bullet whistled through the air and impacted the back of the first trappers head .
the lead ball mushroomed and shattered his skull , propelling bone , brain and blood down the front of his tattered clothes and into the river .
instantly , he fell overboard and floated downstream .
in shock from witnessing the death of his companion , the remaining trapper cried out in anguish as he helplessly watched his friend floating away , trailing behind him a path of red water .
reality snapped him back into focus as another bullet embedded into one of the logs of the raft , fracturing it and sending tiny splinters into the water .
he looked back at the pelts of beaver and muskrat he and his now deceased friend had toiled over for the previous two months .
he hesitated for a moment , then grabbed a handful of beaver pelts , his rifle , and a tiny strongbox of money , then quickly jumped into the water .
struggling to stay afloat with the weight of the rifle , he kicked his boots wildly under the water .
as his head dipped below the surface , he was about to let go of the rifle when his feet touched bottom .
he pushed off the muddy floor of the river and popped his head above the water , took a gasp of air and sunk below the water again .
finding the bottom of the river once more , he launched his waterlogged body above the surface and gasped for another breath of air .
as he sank back into the water , his head now was above the water line .
he had managed to move close enough to shore to now wade toward land with his handful of belongings safe .
spotting a large boulder at the rivers edge , he made his way toward it , keeping his head mostly submerged for cover .
at the boulder , he threw his pelts and strongbox onto higher ground and positioned his rifle for defense .
with the powder wet and useless , he still aimed his weapon , hoping he would not be called on to bluff .
shaking and scared , the young boy huddled close to the rock , having just witnessed the drama of the trappers unfold further upriver .
at the tender age of seven , he had never seen a man killed before , and the sight of the old trapper 's violent death shook him to his core .
his world had changed in an instant , the graphic vision imprinted in his memory forever .
he openly wept as he watched the remains of the old man drift slowly downstream past him .
union corporal amol fletcher , part of a three man team assigned to artillery , had been standing at his post when the first of the four confederate shells exploded .
fighting two cannons away , the blast sent shrapnel through his team , decapitating one private and missing the other , while he himself took a large fragment to his lower leg , nearly severing his calf from the bone .
instantly , he dropped to the ground in agony .
as he cried out in pain , he clutched the dangling flesh , irrationally trying to reattach it to the bone .
in his delirium , his world seemed to slow .
no one noticed him as he lay sprawled on the ground between the cannons .
as bullets passed over his head , he heard their whistle , and for a moment forgot about his injury as a sense of self preservation overtook him .
he rolled on his belly and began to crawl .
pulling with his arms and pushing with his uninjured leg , he slowly worked his way through cannon and soldier , dragging a trail of blood behind him .
as hypovolemic shock began to develop from the loss of blood , the pain from his gaping wound became less noticeable .
he moved faster and with more determination .
suddenly , a soldier lay in his path , face down .
corporal fletcher grabbed his shoulder to roll him over as he felt the sting of hot lead graze his forearm and impact the back of the soldiers head .
instantly , the soldiers skull exploded , covering corporal fletcher 's face with blood , bits of brain and bone .
he jerked away in reflex and cried out in fear , only to feel the mind numbing pain of his own injury .
as fear enveloped him further , he quickly crawled around the deceased soldier and continued on his path .
up ahead , several yards away , he spotted a boulder for protection .
fear and anxiety coursed through his veins as he struggled to stay alive .
desperately , deliberately , he stretched his hands out in front of him , clawing at anything he could use to further his escape .
as he crawled , the elevation dropped off slightly , allowing him more protection from the bullets passing above .
with grass and mud embedded in his fingernails , he reached the larger boulder and pulled himself around it to safety lying on his stomach , he rolled over and sat up against the smooth granite rock .
he heard the sound of bullets ricocheting off the boulder and deflecting into the trees around him as he instinctively ducked from the sound .
with his adrenaline pumping , he reached down to his grass and dirt stained shirt and ripped off a strip from its bottom edge .
taking the strip in both hands , he lifted the hanging flesh and secured it to the bone with the cloth , tying a loose knot to hold his calf in place as the pain caused him to scream in reflex .
a short distance away , a private pulling a horse drawn ambulance heard the painful shriek of corporal fletcher over the thunder of war .
this was his first pass through as he searched for casualties .
hearing the horrific screams , he snapped the reins to the team of horses and quickly located the suffering corporal , barely conscious but still feeling his agony .
he leaped down from the buckboard and ran to his side with a canteen of cool water .
kneeling , he placed the canteen to the corporal 's lips and slowly poured a few swallows into his mouth .
corporal fletcher , in his grave state , choked and coughed as the water entered his mouth , causing him to cry out in pain once more .
instinctively he pushed the privates hand away and opened his eyes .
in a weakened voice , he said , they 've killed me .
the rebs have killed me .
looking down at corporal fletcher 's blood , which had pooled under his leg , the private quickly realized the gravity of the situation .
as he reached to lift the fading corporal , he replied , nonsense .
doc morgan will have that leg off in no time .
you 'll be good as new in a just a few days .
he smiled as he spoke , hoping to lift the corporal 's spirits .
even in the corporal 's deteriorated state , he knew the grisly torture that awaited him once back at the makeshift hospital .
he stiffened a moment and looked down at his maimed appendage .
he envisioned the painful procedure , then the disfigured remnant that would be left as a sad reminder of the reality of war .
disheartened , he slumped into the arms of the private , who struggled to lift him into the waiting ambulance .
moments later , laying in one of the hard , wooden gurneys , he was reminded of his agony as the private snapped the reins , abruptly jarring the wagon , sending excruciating pain through his gaping wound and up his spine .
sorry , the private responded sincerely , although there was little he could do to improve the comfort of the wounded .
moments later , through his own screams of agony , he heard the cries of another wounded soldier being loaded into the wooden ambulance .
he glanced over to see a young boy of sixteen , thin , with wavy yellow hair , being roughly hauled into the gurney on the opposite side of the wagon .
with the ghastly wound in his stomach , he did n't have long to live .
his blues eyes were sunken and dulled from the loss of blood , a good deal of which completely saturated his shirt and pants , as well as his hands , as he had tried in relieve the pain with pressure to his wound .
lying there in his agony , he cried out to god to end his suffering .
corporal fletcher could almost feel the young boy 's despair as he irrationally waited in vain for a higher power to answer his dying prayer .
with the realization that he was all alone , he retreated into the far recesses of his mind , his last haven for solace .
rolling his head from side to side , he murmured under his breath , mama , mama . ''
at the end of his consciousness , unable to speak , corporal fletcher mustered the last bit of his strength as he stretched out a weak , shaking hand , and gently laid it upon the privates shoulder .
the young privates eyes widened a moment as he quietly spoke in a receiving tone , mama .
i love you . ''
as the corporals world went black , he slipped into unconsciousness , having brought some measure of relief to the poor dying boy beside him .
it was all he could do , and it was enough .
shortly after losing consciousness , the young boy quietly died beside him , passing beyond the horrific end into peace .
dr. jeb morgan paced back and forth by the operating wagon , envisioning the dead and wounded with each report of the union cannons .
with each crack of a twig or an unusual sound of the wind , he craned his head to listen more intently , hoping for any advanced warning of the ambulances delivering their wounded .
the minutes felt like hours as he reached into his pants pocket and pulled out his elgin pocket watch .
he pressed the tiny button of the gold timepiece and popped the cover , exposing the hands of time .
huh , only 10 30 , he said aloud , frustrated at how slow time felt during moments of anguish .
he snapped the cover closed and shoved the watch back into his pants pocket once more .
returned to his pacing , he gazed through the grove of birch trees , trying to view the battle at his protected location .
barely visible , columns of smoke and debris could be seen rising off the valley floor .
the sight made him wonder how the confederates were faring , and if their own surgeon was also nervously pacing .
it started as a low clicking sound , barely audible .
at first dr. morgan thought it might be cannon echoes reverberating off the mountains , but as the sound persisted , he recognized the distinctive repetitive sound .
it was the hooves from a team of horses as they trotted .
he strained his eyes in the direction of the sound , but still saw nothing .
he spun on his heels and ran toward the operating wagon .
ok , men were on , dr. morgan called out in a deep authoritative voice .
fetch my smock , he ordered a nearby private , who was sitting on the ground , sunning himself .
yes sir , the private quickly responded , hopping to his feet .
moments later , the screams of pain could be heard as the driver hauled the wounded over rocks , logs and uneven ground as he made his way through the birch forest to the makeshift medical camp .
he pulled into the clearing and rolled to the waiting operating wagon .
standing in their clean white smocks stood dr. morgan , assistant surgeon george fowler , pvt .
douglas , who had been resting earlier , and pvt .
cleveland .
the horses came to a halt with the rear of the ambulance just past the operating wagon .
immediately , dr. morgan ran to the wounded and began his assessment .
there were three soldiers lying with their feet toward him .
he quickly saw corporal fletcher 's leg and the pool of blood that had collected under it .
as he climbed up into the ambulance , the private driving the wagon met him in the middle .
pointing to the young boy of sixteen , he shook his head sadly and moved his gaze to the private laying at the bottom of the wagon between the two gurneys .
the young private was still conscious and suffering terribly due to a bullet that had penetrated his leg just below the knee and smashed through the bone , leaving a gaping wound and shattered fragments embedded into the raw , mangled flesh .
assessing the situation , dr. morgan quickly pronounced the young boy dead , and turned his attention to the two men still living .
feeling corp. fletcher had the gravest injury , he motioned to the two privates to carry him to the operating table .
immediately , the two lifted the gurney out of the ambulance and over to the other wagon .
as dr. morgan cut away a portion of the corporals pant leg , asst .
george fowler prepared the chloroform .
dr. morgan looked up while cutting and said , abruptly , save it .
he 's unconscious .
i 'll have his leg off well before he ever wakes up .
asst .
fowler stowed the chloroform and replied , you think he 'll ever regain consciousness after this ?
i do .
dr. morgan replied simply , then added , once i tie off those arteries , i think he 'll be ok that is , if we can control the infection .
asst .
sgt .
fowler just nodded as he jumped down off the wagon and came around to the back .
he stood for a moment and awaited further orders .
looking at the gruesome sight , asst .
fowler watched as dr. morgan placed the mechanical tourniquet just above the knee and over the femoral artery .
with the strap wrapping around the leg , he pulled hard to tighten the cloth band around the skin .
he then turned a large lever on the tourniquet to take in the excess slack .
moments later , the blood that oozed from the wound slowed to a slight trickle .
dr. morgan 's hands were already covered in blood as he reached for his scalpel .
with his pant leg gone , corporal fletcher 's right leg was fully exposed .
starting at the top surface of the leg , dr. morgan began the amputation as he explained the procedure to asst .
fowler while he operated .
right , i know this is your first time , so i 'll try to explain as much as practicable .
first we determine the point of incision closest to the wound .
we always try to leave as much of the amputating limb as possible .
i 'd say we could safely amputate about an inch or so behind the wound , dr. morgan said as he placed the scalpel on the top of the leg .
looking up at his assistant , then up to corp. fletcher to ensure he was unconscious , he was now ready .
right then .
start at the top , here , he said , pointing with the scalpel .
we pierce through the upper integuments skin , that is cutting through the fascia and just into the muscle .
this really should be quite simple with him unconscious .
as he explained , he pierced through both layers of skin and into the muscle as he sliced from the top and worked his way around to the bottom , blood and fatty yellow tissue immediately oozing from the laceration .
at the bottom , he reached around the leg , coming up from underneath on the opposite side and continued to make his incision up the other side , ending at his first point of incision .
the two incisions were so quick , asst .
fowler barely had time to comprehend .
ok , i need you to pull back the first layer as i cut down to the bone .
just be careful of your fingers though .
i 'm moving pretty fast here and we do n't want an accidental amputation of any of your digits , ok ?
dr. morgan asked .
asst .
fowler nervously nodded his head and placed his unwashed fingers into the incision and began to pull back on the skin , opening it wider for dr. morgan .
as he did this , he asked a question .
sir , why do n't we cut right down to the bone on the first pass ?
would n't it be faster ?
looking up at his assistant , dr. morgan replied , good question , lad .
we could do this in one pass , but we lose the precision as we slice deep into the muscle .
the remaining stump usually ends up grossly disfigured , more so than is acceptable , frequently leaving the appendage quite painful for use .
the accepted practice is the double incision , as we are doing now .
we will produce a stump that will retain more muscle tissue covering the bone , making it a less painful , as well as a more useful appendage .
asst .
fowler nodded , then turned his attention to his fingers as he pulled the incision open .
dr. morgan reached for a longer bladed scalpel .
he inserted it into the bloody tissue at the top , then angled the blade so that he would be cutting several inches up and underneath his assistants hand , effectively cutting out a cone shaped piece of muscle down to the bone .
the first pass , the doctor sliced deeply into the flesh , slicing though vein , muscle and tendons , hitting the bone and increasing blood flow onto the table .
as he was instructed , asst .
fowler pulled back the freshly sliced muscle as the doctor worked quickly .
reaching over the leg once more , the doctor continued his conical shaped incision from the bottom and worked his way to the top .
with his hands saturated in blood , he reached for a long strip of cloth a few inches wide .
he worked around the bone , then pulled up on each end of the strip , lightly suspending the leg for a moment .
he then pulled the cloth up the leg , which pulled the muscles higher up the bone .
ok , we 've pulled the muscles higher up the bone .
i 'll cut through the bone as close to the cloth as i can without cutting through it the cloth , that is .
when we release the cloth , the muscle will spring back to its original position , covering the bone by a couple of inches , allowing for greater cushioning after healing , dr. morgan elaborated .
he reached for his saw and placed his thumb on the bone as a guide .
resting the saw against his thumb , he pulled two times toward himself , leaving a small pilot slot to start the cut .
he then began to aggressively saw through the bone .
in seconds , he was nearly through the bone , as he began to slow .
at the end , he only pulled the saw toward himself , insuring that the bone would not splinter .
with the last pull of the saw , the lower leg completely detached from the upper leg .
at the end of the table , the top heavy foot rolled to one side under its own weight , and fell from the table into the grass below .
the blood pooled around the end of the stump as the assistant released the cloth holding the muscle .
quickly reaching for a pre threaded needle , the doctor began to tie off the various blood vessels , starting with the femoral artery .
right then .
see those strands that look like tiny pieces of twine ?
they are the various blood vessels that supplied the lower leg with blood .
those all need to be tied off or he 'll bleed to death , the doctor said as he worked .
with the bleeding completely stopped , he slowly released the tourniquet and watched for leakages at the end of the stump .
seeing none , he then began to sew up the exposed wound .
he quickly pulled the extra skin over the muscle and began to stitch across them .
the ligatures should not be too close , as there needs to be room for drainage of any excess blood and pus while the appendage heals , the doctor said as he stitched , his assistant looking on in fascination .
when he was done suturing , he allowed asst .
fowler to bandage the end while he rinsed off his tools and threw the bloody foot into a basket to be carried away later .
turning to his assistance , he said dryly , let 's hope there wo n't be too many of these today .
asst .
fowler just nodded .
the whole bloody experience was almost too graphic for him as he tried to process the procedure in his mind .
right , let 's have a look at the other fellow , shall we ?
the doctor asked rhetorically .
bandaging the corporals amputated leg , he looked up to see that dr. morgan was already cutting away the other soldiers pant leg , presaging the next operative process .
moments later , the sound of distant gallops could be heard as more teams of horses began to arrive , pulling their wooden ambulances as they rushed the wounded to safety .
faster than they could operate , the privates carried more wounded union soldiers to the operating wagon .
the basket of amputated limbs mounded over as the doctor disposed of the useless appendages , throwing them unceremoniously onto the bloody pile of flesh and bone that had already began to rot in the heat of the day .
as each mangled limb landed on the bloody mound , swarms of flies darted away , escaping the falling limb , then quickly returned and continued their forage of filth and disease on their newly found real estate .
as the wounded flowed in , they were helped to the shady edges of the grassy clearing to wait their turn under the knife.disheartening moans of agony could be heard everywhere as the injured men left one horrific world and entered another .
working quickly to overcome the numbers , dr. morgan set up another operating wagon for asst .
fowler .
working side by side , dr. morgan monitored his assistants work .
at first , the doctor assigned simple amputations to dr. fowler , but as the number of wounded mounted and dr. fowler began to grow into his newly acquired skills , dr. morgan allowed him to take on more complex surgeries .
with two doctors working , the basket used to dispose of the limbs had long since disappeared under the carnage .
the stench of iron hung heavy in the air from the blood that spewed from the wounded .
through blank and pallor faces , some stared out into nothingness as shock deadened reality .
others winced and grimaced with each breath they took , and still others cried out in agony , each time dying a thousand deaths .
hearing the suffering of their countrymen only served to stiffen both doctors resolve to save more men .
throughout the day and into the night , the two surgeons worked frantically to save the injured and the dying .
as their exhaustion set in , and hysteria and despair overwhelmed them , they searched within themselves for the strength to continue .
eventually , their own bodies and minds began to fail them .
they had pushed themselves to the limits of human endurance .
with the battle not yet complete , they both knew that tomorrow would bring further death and pain .
if they were going to be of service to the young men risking their lives for their country , they both would need some much deserved rest .
with the last flicker of light from the nearly spent oil lamps , the blood soaked surgeons made their way across the other side of the clearing to their two canvas tents .
with a quick change of clothing , they laid down on their cots and fell quickly asleep .
tt chapter 3 june 8th , 2005 elanger hospital was a bustling modern hospital with four branches spread out on each side of the city of chattanooga north , south , east , west , and one at the center of the city , accounting for five in total .
regarded as a teaching hospital , they developed and performed the latest cutting edge medical techniques , producing some of the finest medical staff in the country although all too often the advancements came as a result of the gang related violence that erupted within the inner city , many times catching the innocent in its crossfire .
dr. david warner burst through the swinging wooden double doors and headed to the scrub station .
ok , what do we have ? ''
he asked as he turned on the water and pulled on the soap dispenser , releasing a large dollop into his hands .
vigorously he scrubbed from his fingertips to his elbows as he listened to his supporting staff inform him of the emergency .
doctor , we have a gunshot victim with an entry and exit wound between the seventh and eighth rib , entry through the abdomen .
her belly 's distended , must be filling up with blood .
her vitals are low , about eighty five over sixty .
her foley output is bright red and shes hypovolemic from the blood loss .
triage has intubated her and already infused 2 liters of plasma , '' replied surgical resident kerry stadler , as he too scrubbed in for emergency surgery .
so she 's prepped ? ''
dr. warner asked .
yes , doctor .
prepped and ready , '' dr stadler replied .
films ? ''
dr. warner asked in abbreviated speech , a function of his occupation .
before he could receive an answer , surgical nurse jill edwards burst through the door .
pulling her mask from her face , she anxiously reported , doctors , you 'd better hurry .
her vitals are dropping fast .
bp is eighty over fifty five , pulse ox is eighty five . ''
without hesitation , dr. warner quickly responded , gloves and gown , now !
and set up a thoracotomy tray , along with a laporatomy just in case . ''
both doctors washed the soap from their hands and arms quickly as the pressure and anxiety of the situation worsened .
should we get an ultrasound in here ?
dr. stadler asked as he started to tie his gown .
yes , stat !
dr. warner replied urgently .
as the two doctors quickly donned their attire , nurse edwards pulled on her protective mask and rushed back into the or to prep the ultrasound equipment and set up the thoracotomy tray .
moving through the double doors , dr warner heard the sounds of alarms as the medical equipment coldly reported a patient in crisis .
he scanned the various devices as the patients levels continued to drop into the danger zone .
as he rushed to the patients side , dr. warner 's eyes widen in disbelief as he realized the age of the tiny victim .
my god , shes just a baby .
how old is she ? ''
eight years , '' nurse edwards replied , her voice sadly exposing what her mask disguised .
whats her name ?
dr. warner asked .
the chart says lena williams , nurse edwards replied .
shaking his head in disgust , he listened as the cardiac monitor sounded slower beats and become erratic .
immediately , he reacted out of instinct .
she needs volume now .
hang another two on the rapid infuser , he said , his voice showing the strain as the youth of his patient weighed heavy in his mind .
bp 's seventy over fifty and dropping , pulse ox is eighty two , dr. stadler informed his mentor and colleague .
i just lost her pulse , nurse edwards cried out as the cardiac monitor sounded the unmistakable tone of flat line .
push an amp of atropine .
charge the paddles to fifty , dr. warner retorted back .
nurse edwards quickly wheeled over the defibrillator and programmed the setting to pediatric , while charging the external paddles to fifty joules .
she quickly handed them to dr. warner , then injected an amp of atropine into the patients iv .
as dr. warner prepared paddles , dr. stadler scanned the young patients belly with ultrasound .
rotating the small metallic wand at various angles , images showed on the monitor , confirming their suspicions of the hidden trauma .
having applied conductive gel , dr. warner placed one of the paddles to the upper right clavicle , and one just below and to the left of the young patients left nipple .
clear , dr. warner called out .
dr. stadler broke off his examination just as dr warner depressed the buttons on the paddles , delivering a charge to the heart as well as other nearby organs .
the patients body convulsed from the current coursing through her .
her chest heaved and expanded , then fell and contracted back onto the table .
the three medical personnel focused on the cardiac monitor for signs of activity .
they held their breath in vain the monitor continued to report a single monotone sound of flat line .
still in v fib , dr. stadler cried out .
desperation could be heard as he spoke .
fifty again , dr. warner called out once more .
he replaced the paddles in the previous locations and delivered a second charge .
again the tiny patient 's body convulsed .
as the three waited for the electrical shock to dissipate and reset the heart , the cardiac monitor registered a single beep , then another and still another as the young patient 's heart began to return to its singular function , pumping life 's blood once again through her tiny body .
sinus tach , dr. stadler cried out in relief .
dr. warner roughly placed paddles back on tray .
ultrasound ?
he asked dr. stadler , who had now resumed his examination , nervous sweat beading up on his brow .
belly 's full of blood .
looks like some major hemorrhaging where the bullet hit the spleen , pancreas and kidney .
eighth rib is broken too .
replied the dr. stadler , now regaining his composure .
ok , eight blade , dr. warner requested .
instantly , nurse edwards handed him a scalpel from the tray of stainless steel instruments , butt end first , taking care not to slice her own hand as she pulled away .
even with years of experience , the thought of slicing into the poor little girl that lay in front of him felt offensive .
dr. warner strengthened his resolve and made his incision , cutting through the various layers of tissue as blood flowed freely from the opening .
immediately the unmistakable stench of blood and fecal matter wafted through their protective masks .
he finished the incision and called , clamp .
nurse edwards placed the clamp in his hand .
dr warner positioned the clamp , holding open the incision as he tried to examine the damage through the draining blood .
suction , dr. warner called out .
dr. stadler inserted the probe into the incision and began to suck out the excess blood .
careful watch the trauma .
work around the transverse colon .
clean out as much of that fecal matter as possible , dr. warner cautioned as dr. stadler worked .
got it , dr. stadler replied , carefully sucking up the blood and debris from the abdominal cavity .
with a better view , dr. warner could now see the damaged organs more clearly .
it was apparent the spleen , pancreas and colon , as well as the left kidney had some form of trauma .
i need a 4 0 prolene and an r.b. 1 needle , now .
anyone know the caliber of bullet ?
dr warner asked , as nurse edwards handed him the needle and suture .
does n't look small , that 's all i know , replied dr. stadler , still suctioning the colon .
looks like about a .22 , dr. warner informed .
small entry wound , but heavy internal trauma from the shockwave as it passed through at the high velocity .
shockwave ?
asked nurse edwards .
while dr. warner worked to repair the damaged spleen , dr. stadler answered nurse edward 's question .
as a bullet travels , it pushes the air out of the way , creating a field of turbulent air around the bullet .
that air around the bullet , the shockwave , has almost as much destructive force as the bullet itself so instead of a quarter of an inch bullet causing damage , you have to add the inch of shockwave to the problem too , dr. stadler said .
awful , just awful , nurse edwards replied sadly .
stats !
dr. warner called out as he quickly worked .
bp seventy five over fifty , pulse ox eighty , replied nurse edwards she 's bleeding everywhere , dr. warner complained .
he turned to dr. stadler and instructed him to repair the transverse colon .
looks like we have a small puncture in the transverse colon .
can you repair it while i attend to the spleen ?
i 'm on it .
eight blade with suction , and a 4 0 and an r.b. 1 standing by , dr. stadler rattled off in quick succession to nurse edwards .
like a gentle father teaching his son , dr. warner delicately cautioned dr. stadler , one thing at a time , he said , then added , work frantically in control .
gotcha , dr. stadler replied , slightly embarrassed by his over zealousness .
as they both worked frantically to repair the damaged organs , the flow of blood went on nearly unabated .
nurse edwards kept a careful eye trained on the monitors as well as the doctors , anticipating their needs before their requests .
doctors , bp is dropping again , sixty five over forty eight .
pulse ox is very low seventy seven , nurse edwards announced .
dammit , where is she bleeding from ?
dr. warner asked rhetorically .
we 're working the areas now , dr. warner , dr. stadler replied .
no , no , with this much blood loss there has to be a much larger source , like the vena cava or the aorta , dr. warner speculated .
we 're nowhere near those areas .
the bullet exited out her back , through the kidneys , dr. stadler replied .
i know , but this much blood loss is n't adding up .
the bullet missed the renal and spleenic veins and arteries .
this ca n't be from just the organs , dr. warner replied .
the two doctors worked feverishly to repair the damaged and bleeding organs as the patients vitals continued to fall .
having repaired the spleen and the transverse colon , the two moved onto the pancreas and left kidney .
more suction , kerry , dr. warner instructed dr. stadler .
he then glanced up and asked nurse edwards , how 's our supply ?
she taking blood faster than we can give it , she retorted back instantly .
hang another two units , dr. warner requested anxiously .
dr. warner , do you see this ?
asked dr. stadler .
would you agree that the bullet entered the abdomen , broke the rib and continued through the spleen , pancreas and out the kidney ?
it appears that way , why ?
dr. warner asked as he worked on the kidney .
there seems to be an abrasion heading up into the upper posterior peritoneum , dr. stadler said , as he lifted the pancreas slightly and pointed to an abrasion that angled up toward the middle of the patients body instead of down and through it .
dammit , you know what that is ?
that 's another entry wound , dr. warner replied .
eight blade and sternal saw , stat !
he said to nurse edwards .
two bullets ?
but theres only one entry wound , dr. stadler replied in disbelief .
i know .
two bullets entered through the same location , dr. warner responded as he accepted the scalpel from nurse edwards and began to make a long incision down the patients breastbone .
i knew something was n't right .
a .22 caliber ca n't break a rib , then have enough energy remaining to tear through all these organs .
there had to be more than one bullet , and i 'm betting its also the cause for the massive blood loss , he explained as he finished his incision .
what are the odds of that happening ?
i mean , two bullets with the same entry wound ?
dr. stadler asked rhetorically , shaking his head now in further disbelief .
stenal saw , dr. warner asked next , then added , i never would have guessed it if i hadnt seen it with my own eyes .
quickly , nurse edwards handed dr. warner the saw .
placing it at the base of the sternum , he began to cut through the breastbone , the smell of bone and blood penetrating through their masks and into their nostrils .
moments later , he was done .
rib spreader , dr. warner requested .
anticipating his request , nurse edwards handed him the instrument immediately .
inserting it directly into the incision , he turned the lever and separated the ribs enough to view the upper chest cavity .
probe , dr. warner requested from nurse edwards .
he then called to dr. stadler to begin suctioning the open areas .
as he did , dr. warner examined the cleaned areas .
more suction .
i need more suction , dr. warner asked with frustration .
oh man , we have trauma to the inferior vena cava .
i need a 4 0 and an r.b. 1 , stat !
working feverishly to repair the profuse bleeding , the needle contacted something hard .
at first he thought it was a rib fragment , but upon closer inspection dr. warner realized it was the second bullet .
there it is .
forceps , dr. warner requested with an almost frantic tone .
he inserted the forceps into the cavity , gently pushing aside the still bleeding vena cava and gently extracted the deformed and mangled bullet .
wow .
the edges are like tiny razor blades .
they sliced through the veins on contact , he announced .
there must be a dozen fissures to repair .
as he unceremoniously tossed the clamped bullet and forceps into a stainless steel container , he continued to suture the tears to the damaged vein and surrounding organs .
moments later , dr. warner watched as the heart began to slow .
just then , the cardiac monitor sounded .
he quickly placed his gloved fingers around the heart and began to squeeze , attempting manual heart compressions even before nurse edwards could speak .
doctor , she 's in pea , nurse edwards announced .
push another amp of epi and charge the internal paddles to fifteen , dr. warner demanded .
handing him the paddles , they watch as he inserted them into her chest cavity and placed them on the still heart .
clear , dr. warner called out he depressed the button and sent the shock directly into the young patients heart.as they listened for signs of life from the cardiac monitor , reality set in .
there were none to be heard .
charge to twenty .
another 6 milligrams now .
clear !
dr. warner frantically called again .
he shocked the heart , sending the current deep within , but to no effect .
the cardiac monitor continued to report its menacing tone flat line .
asystole god dammit .
dr. warner shouted out loud .
as he continued with manual compressions he called out once more , charge to thirty .
inserting the internal paddles again , he delivered a massive jolt to the patient 's heart .
in horror and sadness , they watched the monitor register no change .
dr. warner frantically searched his mind for a solution as he continued manual compressions .
even with his years of education and training , the damage was too extensive for him to overcome .
he pulled his hands from her chest and stood back .
with his gloved hands dripping fresh blood onto the floor , he hung his head low .
call it , he mumbled quietly .
as nurse edwards called the time of death , he stood motionless as he watched the lifeless body of the young girl .
his mind raced as he stared at the carnage in front of him .
he thought about the smiles she must have displayed just a few hours before .
he thought about the hugs her mom must have given her that morning , and the pain the parents would be feeling forever .
he thought about her violent death and the injustice of it all .
deeply saddened and sickened by the grievous sight , he could stand no more .
he turned and walked out the or doors , oblivious to all , in a state of shock and disbelief .
with his gown soaked in blood and his gloves dripping a red path behind him , he made his way down the corridor toward the elevator .
in a blurred and confused state , he was unable to hear his name being called as he walked .
standing in front of the elevator , he pushed the button .
instantly , the doors sprung open .
he looked back up the hallway to nurse edwards , who was calling his name , but heard nothing .
as if in slow motion , he stepped in and the doors slowly closed behind him .
dr. warner !
dr. warner , stop !
nurse edwards called as she ran down the corridor toward the elevator .
too late .
she watched as the doors closed behind him .
as she stared at the bloody footprints that seemed to vanish through the elevator doors , she caught a slight movement with her peripheral vision .
looking up , she watched with sadness as a droplet of blood pooled , then slide down from the elevator button .
reaching into her pocket , she pulled out a tissue and reverently wiped off the sad remains of the young victim , imprinting in her memory , forever the pain of the senseless tragedy .
in a daze , dr. david warner stood in the middle elevator and stared through an old photo hanging on the back wall .
as the metal doors closed behind him , he felt a small shudder , then a slight drop as he momentarily became weightless as the elevator began to descend .
ignoring the fact that he had not pressed a floor to descend to , he felt any place but the or was a good place .
he just wanted to forget .
slowly the elevator descended .
as david struggled to free his mind of tragedy , his eyes began to focus on the picture in front of him .
slowly at first , then more detailed as he descended , the photo came into focus .
he was no longer staring through the photo , but directly at it .
somehow it helped to soothe the pain that gnawed away at his soul .
the photo was an antique , a reflection of the past a unique display of history that showed how elanger hospital came to pass .
the photo was of a group of civil war doctors standing over a patient after a recent amputation .
at its center was the patient , laying on a makeshift gurney built from an old wooden wagon , sedated and bandaged , with his lower right leg , a stump , resting and on display as a testimony to the doctors abilities .
standing behind the patient , dressed in uniform with their bloody smocks still fastened to them , several military doctors stood proudly for the photo .
hardened and determined , their faces were devoid of all expression , save for one pride .
at the left side of the photo sat an old man on a rickety stool .
with his white flowing beard and hair , he looked much older than his more distinguished looking colleagues .
he too wore a bloody smock , and his face also carried the expression of pride .
yet something else shone through in the old mans eyes wisdom .
while the others looked into the camera , he looked beyond it , as if deep in thought and oblivious to its presence .
he appeared somewhat accidental to the photos purpose .
at the bottom of the photo , david read the inscription original site of elanger hospital , 1862 .
david gazed upon the doctors in the photo .
he looked at the bandage , bulbous and barbaric on the poor soldiers leg .
a feeling of contempt swept over his body .
huh .
a hundred and fifty years of progress and we still cant save em , he shouted out irrationally , his fists clenched in anger and still encased in bloody gloves .
then , in a fit of rage , he punched the picture on the wall , the glass shattering and dropping to the floor of the elevator , cracking the cheap plastic frame .
the sound of shattering glass and cracking plastic snapped him back to reality .
he bent over and picked up the old photo , leaving the broken shards of glass still at the floor of the elevator .
he began to replace the picture on the bent hook when he felt his knees begin to buckle slightly as the elevator began to slow to a stop .
a moment later , david heard the sound of a bell as the elevator settled into its floor .
suddenly , he saw his gloved hands , sticky with drying blood , holding the framed picture held out in front of him .
he looked down at his gown and realized he was covered in blood , a fact that had escaped his attention moments before .
as the mechanized sound of the heavy metal doors signaled their opening , he felt a light balmy breeze brush by his neck .
the air suddenly felt dense , as if the relative humidity dramatically increased .
a strange yet familiar odor drifted from behind him and penetrated his nostrils .
turning around to investigate , he stiffened and froze in place .
as his eyes took in the sight before him , his mind struggled to make sense of the scene beyond the doors of the elevator .
his heart began to pump wildly and his whole body shook .
he felt he was dreaming but never before had a dream felt so real .
hey , you .
come here .
i need you to hold his leg , david heard just outside the door of the elevator .
david squinted at first , then rubbed his eyes and refocused on the vision before him .
there , several yards away , he watched as a man dressed in a blue military uniform stood over another man laying on a wooden gurney .
the man standing looked familiar to him , and he searched his mind to make the connection .
hey , come here .
i need your help now .
im almost finished , the voice called again from beyond the elevator door .
david looked around inside the elevator , then over to the control panel .
at the bottom of the panel , a circular button labeled g was highlighted .
he thought it strange that he ended up at the ground floor , as he had not pushed any of the buttons on the panel .
he turned back to the scene that was unfolding in front of him .
the light , balmy breeze was still blowing in his face , and the strange odor , now foul and offensive , still penetrated his nostrils .
david watched in fascination as he realized the military man beckoning him was , in fact , a doctor performing crude surgery on the other man laying unconscious on the wooden gurney .
suddenly it dawned on him .
the man standing before him was the same man in the picture .
david looked at the picture in his hands , then back at the man beyond the elevator .
he was indeed the doctor the older looking man with a white flowing beard and hair .
wow .
this is one strange dream , david said out loud .
he felt confused by the vision .
whoa , im seeing color in this dream .
how is this possible ?
he asked of no one in particular .
are you just going to stand there or are you going to help me ?
the old doctor called out to david in frustration .
david thought about answering him , but thought it to be silly .
its just a dream , he thought to himself .
then , reconsidering , he rationalized to himself , what would be the harm ?
david called to the old man , what do you want me to do ?
tear that cloth into strips , the old doctor responded immediately , pointing to a mound of cloth on the grass at the foot of the wagon .
at first , david hesitated .
something in his gut was telling him not to go .
he felt paralyzed with indecision , but then , throwing caution to the wind , he stepped forward .
as he passed through the doorway of the elevator and stepped out onto the grass , time seemed to slow for a moment .
he heard voices and sounds as if they were being played to him at half speed .
he turned and looked back into the elevator , but strangely , he saw only its interior the hospital he expected to see housing it was not there .
david turned and took a step onto the grass .
time seemed to resume its normal speed .
he suddenly heard the deafening sounds of thunder and recognized the foul stench of rotting flesh .
he turned to look back at the elevator , but it was no longer there only grass and birch trees , which partially obstructed the war that raged off in the distant valley .
what the hell ?
david said out loud , as a wave of fear and confusion spread through his body .
son , i really need your help here , david heard , as the old voice shouted from behind him .
david turned and looked at the old doctor , then back at the spot of grass that used to be the elevator .
suddenly , a loud clap of thunder sounded just beyond the birch trees , shaking the ground under his feet .
he heard screams of agony and realized that the sounds hed been hearing were not thunder after all , but were in fact artillery explosions .
instinctively , david ran toward the old doctor , frantically searching for cover as he closed the distance .
the old doctor , seeing the intense fear in davids eyes , quickly recognized the developing problem .
he pulled away from his patient and moved quickly to intercept david in flight .
whoa , son !
steady .
youre in no danger , the old doctor called to david as he ran to him and grabbed his arms , reassuring him of his safety .
those are bombs .
theyre trying to kill us , david replied , almost hysterical .
the doctor casually looked beyond david at the raging war , then back into his eyes , and replied , well , i suppose they are , but we 're out of range of their artillery . ''
he scratched the top of his head with his bloody fingernails and continued , i guess a wild bullet could accidentally find us up here , but it 's not likely , '' he then took a long look at david 's clothes .
a confused expression crossed his face as he spoke .
that is quite an unusual uniform you have on .
what outfit are you from ? ''
outfit ? ''
david replied , still in a deep state of shock .
outfit , lad .
what outfit are you from ?
who 's your commanding officer ? ''
the old doc questioned with a bit of suspicion , then added , do n't tell me you 're gray ? ''
david was about to speak when another shell hit a bank just beyond the birch trees , startling both he and the old doctor .
with a quick look over david 's shoulder , then back to his patient on the wooden wagon , the doctor refocused on his duty .
this way , lad .
we have work to do , '' the old doctor said , as he extended his hand in the direction of the patient as an invitation for david to follow him .
quickly , they walked back to the wagon , with the doctor leading the way .
once at the patients side , the old doctor instructed , i need you to tear those rags into thin strips so i can finish bandaging this poor lads stump before he comes to .
lord knows he 'll be suffering enough when he wakes without us fidgeting with his bandage , so be quick with your work . ''
david pulled off his rubber gloves and tucked them into his pocket .
with his mind struggling to make sense of the situation , he reached down and begin to tear the cloth into strips in an effort to buy himself time to sort through the complexities of his dream .
his mind raced from one topic to the next , never answering his questions as each problem became a pandoras box of other unanswerable questions , distracting and derailing him from solving anything .
as he looked around , he could hear the cries of agony , the sounds of war , the smell of death , and suddenly he realized that this was no dream .
this was real .
he was now existing in another era in time the civil war the 1860s .
as he tore off each strip of cloth , he handed it to the old doctor , who used it to secure the amputee 's bandages in place .
as he worked , the old doctor began to interrogate his new assistant .
i see you 've been in surgery already .
i do n't recall another medical unit around here .
where did you come from ? ''
the old doctor asked casually as he worked .
david searched his mind for an answer that would be suitable for the old man .
he knew he could n't say he was from the future .
quickly he devised a cover story until he could make sense of his dilemma .
i have medical training and thought i could be of use , david replied , hoping his answer would suffice .
uh huh , and where did you come from ?
allow me to be more direct .
are you gray or blue ?
the old doctor asked without breaking his concentration .
doctor , i am neither .
i am just a medically trained individual who wants to lend a hand to these poor boys , david replied .
young man , are you a deserter ?
the old doctor asked bluntly .
no , sir .
i am not in the military , david responded .
he knew the questions would keep coming and that he needed to find a better reason for his presence .
he then had an idea .
doctor , the truth is i need a job .
id like to join the military to in order to practice medicine .
i am a very skilled practitioner and feel i can be of real use here , david finished , hoping he hadnt overplayed his abilities .
hmm , skilled practitioner you say ?
where were you trained ?
are you a doctor ?
the old doctor said , continuing his interrogation .
yes , i am a doctor .
i was trained in new england at harvard university .
have you heard of it ?
david asked , unsure if his ivy league alma mater wouldnt raise even more suspicion .
harvard you say ?
hmm .
we are short staffed here , to be sure .
my assistants mean well but are bumbling country boys , if you understand my inference , the old doctor said as he winked at david .
completely , doctor , david replied back with a smile of understanding .
well , doctor , do you have a name ?
the old doctor asked , now warming to david a bit .
yes sir .
my name is dr. david warner .
may i ask what your name is ?
david responded in kind .
certainly .
my name is jebadiah morgan , dr. morgan replied , his modesty eliminating fancy titles from his name .
he tied the last bandage and lifted his head .
with piercing eyes , he stared directly into davids .
slowly , he extended his hand in greeting .
im pleased to make your acquaintance , david .
now , if you will indulge me a while , id like to see your abilities .
i have a young man waiting amputation id like you to attend to .
if you prove your skill , i will consult with gen. negley regarding employment .
is this accord satisfactory ?
dr. morgan asked with blunt sincerity .
where 's the patient ?
david replied , trying to contain his confidence .
dr. morgan signaled to the private to bring up the next patient .
as they waited , he showed david to his station , pointing out the instruments he 'd be operating with , as well as suturing materials and bandaging .
david viewed his crude operating environment with shock .
he had n't thought about it until that moment , but he was trained to operate in a highly technical environment .
this was as primitive as he could imagine .
he was n't sure he could do it .
dr. morgan sensed davids apprehension and said , son , are you sure you 're up for this ?
it 's a bit more primitive than i 'm used to , but i can manage , david replied .
son , i do n't want you to manage .
i want you to perform as a trained operator .
these young men deserve more than a butcher or a charlatan .
if you are either , please speak the truth , dr. morgan stated boldly and with conviction .
doctor , i can assure you my skills as a surgeon are more than adequate .
i just need a moment to acclimate myself to an environment i 'm not accustomed to , david replied with a bold and confident tone , in an effort to reassure dr. morgan .
as the assistants laid the next patient on the wooden wagon , david could see the agony of the young soldier and immediately began his assessment .
without the basic equipment to understand the patients vital signs , david could only make limited observations .
he quickly took the patients pulse and determined it to be weaker than normal .
next , he checked pupil dilation and reaction with a match .
satisfied , he then examined the patient 's mouth , tongue and skin for dehydration and color .
he observed that his skin color was pale and felt clammy .
in addition , the young man seemed somewhat withdrawn and lethargic .
trying not to move the traumatized leg too much , he moved it only slightly , cutting away the pant leg .
he observed that a large caliber bullet had indeed passed through the calf , but had left a gaping wound upon exiting .
david determined that with careful cleaning and repair , the leg could be saved , although without antibiotics , the post treatment would be problematic .
david immediately bent the young man 's undamaged leg at the knee , leaving the traumatized leg laying flat .
he then moved to the front of the wagon , grabbed a blanket , and draped it over the patient .
dr. warner , what is your assessment ? ''
dr. morgan questioned with concern .
the patient is suffering from mild hypovolemic shock .
i am making some effort to stabilize him before invasive surgery .
the large bore bullet has indeed left a great deal of trauma to the calf , but i believe i can save the leg . ''
david recalled from his courses in school that the anesthesia of choice during this period was chloroform .
he continued , do we have the chloroform ready ? ''
david asked .
doctor , i must protest .
his leg is too badly damaged .
we must remove it before gangrene develops , '' dr. morgan said .
i 've examined the wound and feel it is relatively clean , thanks to his pant leg protecting the trauma .
after a proper cleaning , i can repair the muscle , veins and arteries , but will need a strong cleansing solution and freshly boiled water .
i believe he will have some degree of infection , but the chance of gangrene is much lower than you might think , '' david replied .
repair the veins and arteries ?
is this possible ? ''
dr. morgan asked incredulously , then added with great concern , and what if the infection spreads and gangrene develops ? ''
we 'd amputate , but then he 'd be no worse off than if we had amputated now .
at least we give him a chance to save the leg , '' david reasoned .
hmm .
you really think you can do this ?
save his leg ? ''
dr. morgan asked , now intrigued by david 's plan .
i can only assure you he wo n't die under my care , though saving his leg under these conditions is n't going to be easy , '' david responded .
dr. morgan coifed his long white beard as he contemplated the procedure .
he looked over at the patient , then back at david , deep in worry as he struggled to trust this mysterious doctor who appeared just minutes before .
david could see the old man 's forehead furrow as he thought .
a moment later , david saw the worried expression leave the old man 's face .
he now began to smile a bit as he came to grips with his decision .
ok , son .
tell me exactly what you need , '' dr. morgan finally replied .
two pots of boiling water , distilled or grain alcohol , soap , and clean dressings , '' david replied .
it 's going to take some time to collect these things .
is every operation like this ? ''
dr. morgan asked .
keeping the water boiling is the only time consuming consideration , '' david responded .
a fire had already been smoldering from early morning usage , so dr. morgan tossed more wood on the coals .
twenty minutes later , two pots of water boiled wildly as david sorted through dr. morgan 's limited instruments required to perform the surgery .
resigned to his selection , david placed the instruments into the boiling water for sterilization .
he then poured off some of the boiling water into third pot and began to scrub his hands and arms with the soap , as well as the rubber gloves he had in his pocket .
satisfied with his cleansing , he slowly washed away the soap .
dr. morgan looked on ill amused with the display by this strange doctor .
a man of medicine for more than thirty five years , he regarded the prep work as shenanigans reserved for roadside carpetbaggers as a means to disguise their lack of content .
david looked over and could see the contempt in dr. morgans eyes .
he knew the old doctor was losing his patience , and with that lost , he too was losing what little credibility he might have had .
quickly , david set up next to the young soldier .
with the help of the old doctor , the patient was anesthetized in a matter of minutes .
with the patient out , dr. morgan looked on closely .
david put on his now sterilized gloves , and then applied a generous amount of the moonshine he obtained from the old doctor to the area around the wound in an effort to sterilize it .
ok , doctor as you can see , the patients leg is torn up pretty badly .
im going to make an incision through the back of the calf to inspect and then repair any damage i might find , david started .
with the patients legs bent at the knees and rolled to one side so he had a clear view , he made an incision across the entry wound large enough to view inside when spread apart .
as if on cue , dr. morgan moved in for a closer look .
david then brought out a pair of retractors used to hold open an incision .
he delicately placed the instrument in the incision and expanded it , giving him a good view of the wound .
next , he rinsed out the incision with a salted water solution he had prepared before the surgery .
dabbing the excess blood , he was able to see the damaged muscle tissue and a torn vein .
using his scalpel , he cut away the torn and mangled muscle tissue .
again , he rinsed out the interior of the wound with moonshine and his makeshift saline solution .
with the smallest needle from the old doctors bag of instruments , david began to sew the reconstructed muscles as well as the arteries , using very few sutures to accomplish his task .
now , the sutures will remain there forever , but the body will adapt to them .
i believe this should take care of this side of the wound , david replied softly , completely engrossed in his work .
he closed the entry wound and move onto the more extensive damage on the other side of the calf .
dr. morgan looked on in total fascination .
never before had he seen or even heard of surgery so delicate and so complicated performed with such ease and skill .
eagerly , he waited for david to attempt the more difficult area of the operation .
after watching the first phase of the operation , david had indeed proven himself to be a quite gifted surgeon .
dr. morgan now watched as any spectator would watch a professional in his element .
he was in awe and excited to observe even greater feats of medicine .
once again , david did his best to rinse and clean the wound with the salted water solution , and then sterilize it with the distilled alcohol .
pulling the scalpel from the hot water , he began to work the damaged muscle tissue on the exit wound .
the damage was much more extensive , but manageable .
as he removed tissue , he would temporarily close the wound to ensure the proper shape of the reconstruction .
working quickly , he then began to suture the arteries and muscle as he had done on the previous side , using very few stitches to accomplish the task .
he then closed the wound as he had done on the other side .
when completed , he rinsed again and sterilized the entire area with the alcohol .
with the operation over , he began to bandage the wound .
a few minutes later , as the patient was gaining consciousness , david had tied the last bandage .
the operation was now over and david felt confident he had done his best to inhibit infection .
in a days time , the results of his work would be evident .
all he could do now was to wait .
for continued reading , please purchase at smashwords.com http www.smashwords.com books view 48854 night of the assassin russell blake smashwords edition .
copyright 2011 by russell blake .
all rights reserved .
no part of this book may be used , reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means , electronic or mechanical , including photocopying , recording , or by any information storage or retrieval system , without the written permission of the publisher , except where permitted by law , or in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews .
for information , contact books russellblake.com .
published by table of contents rave reviews for russell blake books about the author a note from the author night of the assassin chapter 1 chapter 2 chapter 3 chapter 4 chapter 5 chapter 6 chapter 7 chapter 8 chapter 9 chapter 10 chapter 11 chapter 12 chapter 13 chapter 14 excerpt from king of swords rave reviews for russell blake books for the geronimo breach '' the best thriller ive ever read .
how often do you hear a review say that ?
well .
thats what im saying .
other reviews describing it as near perfection and incredibly well written arent lying .
russell blake is on par with the biggest names in the business .
and i mean grisham , turrow , ludlum , forsyth , brown .
the plot is intricate and completely unexpected at every turn .
al ross is a hateful , extremely well written character with believable complexity and nuance , plunged into a global conspiracy nightmare hes ill equipped to survive .
dont want to spoil the end , but its a barn burner .
overall , the best read ever . ''
jennifer989 the artistry in this work as the brush strokes build layers , brings you to wonder if something like this could be true !
thats the work of a true artist .
many works of fiction have a main character that is so scrubbed up that he no longer resembles a human male .
no problems with this one .
you start out despising him , then start to feel sorry for him , until finally you almost like him and wish him well although that outcome seems unlikely , the way the story develops .
this is almost a how to.. for budding writers .
how to write without one word or one sentence that could be edited out !
tight narrative , great story , scary scenario .
i almost never give five stars , but this has earned it ! ''
k. mcdicken russell blake is fast becoming my favorite new author .
take an unlikely main character , a scarily probable conspiracy , a government run amok , cocaine dealers , commandos , whores , a burro , and a tightly meshed action intrigue plot , and you have what to me is the most original thriller of the year .
i dont want to spoil the ending but it completely blew me away , and how the suspense was sustained to the last few pages as a surprise was great .
i loved fatal exchange and had tears of laughter running down my face for how to sell a gazillion ebooks , and now spent a big chunk of my night reading till 4am to get to the end of geronimo breach .
highest recommendation for a highly original and entertaining novel . ''
semi used okay , im from the other side of the pond you can find most of my reviews and on the uk site and im not a patient forgiving reader if the writer confuses me or dawdles in their narrative .
i was pleasantly surprised to find myself going along with the easy style and broad strokes of the narrative .
the plot is very skillfully contrived but the real art i found was in the affinity i found myself unable to resist with the down on his life main character , al .
i also love burros after following als steady transition as he encounters hurdle after hurdle .
i laughed aloud in some scenes i wont spoil it when al is , lets say ... compromised .
i loved the ending but also wished the story hadnt ended so for that reason im taking the trouble to recommend it . ''
write into print for the zero sum trilogy '' blakes latest is absolutely amazing .
i literally could not put down my kindle until i finished all three books in the trilogy !
russell blake has a very unique talent at painting a beautiful story with words , and the zero sum trilogy practically reads like poetry .
5 stars arent enough to rate this wonderful trilogy 10 stars would be more accurate ! ''
amber norrgard russell blakes zero sum trilogy is truly amazing .
i initially downloaded book 1 because it was free and before i was done i had purchased the book 2 3 bundle .
this is my first time reading a book from russell blake and i felt privileged to have found a book written so intelligently with such a powerful impact .
nicolas griffen is a character that you will grow to despise .
a wall street financier associated with organized crime and government agencies using the stock market to make huge amounts of money to the detriment of others .
dr. steven archer is determined to stop this activity by publishing a website to expose griffen and his associates for what they really are .
when he is discovered to be the owner of the website life is forever changed as he is now the target to be destroyed .
this trilogy will take you on a extremely fast paced and unexpected roller coaster ride of the fight between good and evil .
zero sum is an addicting complex thriller that you will not be able to put down .
i highly recommend this book , it is writing at its best .
i look forward to reading more from russell blake . ''
marilou george the kindle book review i read a review of the zero sum trilogy on steven konkolys blog , and then several reviews here , so i took the plunge .
i mean , i dont know a put from a call though i did get a short lesson from mr. blake when i mentioned that but that didnt stop me from enjoying this thrill ride .
i was recuperating from a medical procedure , so i read all three books over the weekend .
i even kept a map of one of the locations open on the computer and that made the story all the more vivid .
the hero was smart , made good use of his resources , yet still kept a bit of naivete that had some almost disastrous results .
there was a bit of irony at the end , but it worked .
id like to see more of steven archer ... '' ms. nancy l. barth for fatal exchange '' fatal exchange is a page turning roller coaster ride of action , adventure and thrills .
i cant tell you how much i enjoyed this presumably debut offering from russell blake .
its an awesome read .
i couldnt put it down , and stayed up all night to finish it , no exaggeration .
six stars , if they had that high a review ! ''
katherina j .
this is a book that took me completely by surprise .
i thought id give it a shot based on the amazon description and 5 star reviews , and it quickly became a page turner i couldnt put down .
the plot is complex , sort of like a forsyth or ludlum , and the characters are gripping .
its a real novel .
cant wait to see what blake does next . ''
anthony m. fatal exchange is a gritty , '' edge of your seat '' thriller by first time author russell blake .
the author cleverly combines a well paced , csi styled crime thriller , with a no holds barred '' , plausible international conspiracy .
i can honestly say , that if i could find more books like fatal exchange , i would be left with absolutely no reason to read some of the brand '' name authors on the market today . ''
steven k. this book is in a class by itself .
the main plot of the book is exciting and scary and maybe a little graphic .
the pacing is fast , the descriptions are visceral and the twists are unexpected . ''
stacy k. for king of swords '' russell blake is no stranger to the thriller genre .
his previous thrillers have turned the headlines inside out , with gritty , no holds barred , edge of your seat plots .
with king of swords , russell blake has clearly taken the best of his previous novels and combined them into an honest , often brutal , heart stopping thriller that left me gasping for air and squirming on my couch .
i know this sounds overly dramatic , but in reader speak ... this book kept me glued to the kindle screen .
in king of swords , the reader is taken on a journey through drug cartel ruled mexico , where violence often trumps hard cash as the dominant cultural currency .
blake clearly draws on his own knowledge of the political and cultural climate in mexico to present a realistic and stark backdrop to a thriller in the fast paced , intelligent tradition of frederick forsyths , day of the jackal . ''
steven konkoly , amazon bestselling author of the jakarta pandemic and black flagged king of swords is a great read for anyone who enjoys thrillers like those by forsyth and ludlum .
forsyths first , and best , book , day of the jackal , is one of my favorites .
ive read it at least five times over the last thirty years , and it always gets my pulse quickening .
king of swords has the same effect and reads much faster , with surprises that keep you guessing right to the end .
you want to just turn the pages as fast as you can push your kindle forward button .
i have a feeling king of swords will be one of the books i come back to again and again .
its that good .
i like the authors other books , having read most or all of them , and their all good , but this one is in a different league .
this is a no excuses heavyweight you could put up against any of the big names , and theyd be in trouble .
whatever kind of tequila hes drinking id say keep it up , because with novels like this pouring forth , ive got no need to read any of the big traditionally published names anymore .
russell blake is an example of an indie author who is surpassing many of the best of the name writers , and kos should put him right in the same ranks as them . ''
david a ive read a few of blakes novels and found them diverse in voice and message therein .
my favorite was the geronimo breach but this latest has a kind of will of its own .
the reader cant help but respect the bad guy along with the mc .
if i read the subtext right , then i realized who the real bad guys are im not spoiling the plot , so youll have to decide for yourself on that score .
if you like your plots quick , deep and faithful , id give it a read ... '' write into print an excerpt from russell blakes novel king of swords follows night of the assassin king of swords by russell blake king of swords is an epic assassination thriller set in modern mexico against a backdrop of cartel violence .
captain romero cruz discovers an assassination plot to kill the mexican and u.s. presidents at the g 20 conference in cabo by el rey a super assassin responsible for some of the worlds most shocking killings .
visit russells website for more details about the author russell blake lives full time on the pacific coast of mexico .
he is the acclaimed author of the thrillers fatal exchange , the geronimo breach , zero sum , the delphi chronicle trilogy the manuscript , the tortoise and the hare , and phoenix rising , king of swords , night of the assassin , the voynich cypher , revenge of the assassin , return of the assassin , blood of the assassin , silver justice , jet , jet ii betrayal , jet iii vengeance , jet iv reckoning and jet v legacy .
non fiction novels include the international bestseller an angel with fur animal biography and how to sell a gazillion ebooks while drunk , high or incarcerated a joyfully vicious parody of all things writing and self publishing related .
capt .
russell enjoys writing , fishing , playing with his dogs , collecting and sampling tequila , and waging an ongoing battle against world domination by clowns .
visit russells salient website for updates a note from the author night of the assassin is the prequel to king of swords , which chronicles the story of the super assassin , el rey and his plot to execute the presidents of the u.s. and mexico at the g 20 summit in san jose del cabo , mexico .
during the chaotic and breakneck writing of that epic tale , i was constantly struck by fleeting insights into the mind of the killer , some of which i captured in glowing detail in that tome .
but even as i put king of swords to bed , i couldnt shake the sense of unfinished business .
id go to sleep and have vivid dreams , and they were always the same about the characters in my book .
specifically , they were about the assassins past .
it was like a disease .
i couldnt stop thinking about him .
thats unfamiliar to me , for the most part .
i had the same general sense when i got done with al , from the geronimo breach , but i had no compulsion to write another book about him , fascinating as his character is .
i felt closure at the end of that work .
id told als story , as well as i could , and there wasnt more i felt i could add .
there were no more words that needed writing .
but i no sooner finished king of swords than i started making notes for a prequel .
which is really the wrong way to go about it .
im a simple man .
when starting a story , i always like the once upon a time part at the beginning , and the end at , well , the end .
but thats not how it panned out for me this time .
i felt driven to write about the assassin some more , and to delve into his background .
what created a man who could dispassionately terminate peoples lives for a living ?
what drove him to do the unthinkable ?
was he a monster in the traditional sense ?
did he kick dogs or swerve to hit them in the road ?
did he put his socks on before or after his underwear ?
it was fascinating to me , because el rey was alive in my head .
you see , i knew the answers to the questions i was asking , for once in my life .
and so it came to pass that i have the opportunity to share with you what i gleaned from him .
night of the assassin is a somewhat shorter work , written to flesh out the making of the beast , and is best read as a companion piece after king of swords .
it can certainly be read first , but i suspect it will be more satisfying and resonate more if the reader digests king first , night second , then the sequels .
thats how i envisioned it , but youre free to do as you like .
even if read as a stand alone or first , night should entertain and satisfy .
id just recommend it after king .
night of the assassin is a classic prequel , in that it doesnt repeat information already memorialized in king of swords so there may be some gaps that dont seem to make sense until both novels are read .
nights purpose , other than to thrill , is to explain , to afford illumination into one of my most fascinating characters yet .
el reys past , or at least the highlights of it , are alive on the page .
if ive done my job right , youll be hurtled along on a ride like no other , to be at times shocked , titillated , revolted , sad , and ultimately , swept into a dark world of cartel killers and violence , drug deals and paid executions , love and loss .
enjoy this humble offering , with my compliments .
your servant , russell blake night of the assassin chapter 1 midnight , five years ago , manzanillo , mexico the lights from contessa , a 160 foot christensen super yacht , glowed off the calm surface of the harbor below the grand bay hotel in barra de navidad , twenty six miles northwest of manzanillo the primary deep water port on the pacific coast of mainland mexico .
it was a calm spring night , the air heavy with the scent of the ubiquitous tropical flowers , beaded with moisture from the cloudbursts that had sulked over the hazy , humid day .
crickets trilled their mating mantras beneath the broiling heavens , the only sound on the water besides the dull thumping of the disco beat emanating from the massive boats salon , which lay beneath the superstructure that supported a four passenger helicopter and a complement of jet skis .
the creaking lines of the yacht strained as the tide rolled in and the moons perennial pull drew higher the water level in the marina the heavy ropes that secured the ship to its long concrete dock keened in futile protest .
armed security men clad in black windbreakers patrolled the concrete walkway that curved the length of the exclusive private marina , the unmistakable outline of heckler koch ump submachine guns a silent testament to their intent .
the battle hardened men chartered with the safety of those aboard the yacht were dead serious , resonating a constant state of readiness against threats from any approach .
the drug cartel skirmishes had escalated over the past two years the guards had been in some blistering firefights with rival groups and seen more than their share of blood .
these were men for whom killing was routine , and they drew their pay with the understanding that any day might be their last .
a radio crackled as the group members checked in with one another , each confirming that all was calm .
the routine was to monitor everyones status at fifteen minute intervals throughout the night .
if danger came , it often did so in the wee hours , and the groups leader was keenly sensitive to possible fatigue or boredom a luxury that could prove fatal on that detail .
peals of shrill female laughter pierced the night as the salon sliding door opened to allow three scantily clad young mexican women onto the rear deck , where the ashtrays were located near a well stocked bar and a sumptuous oversized hot tub .
the girls were regular company for the owner of the boat , sylvio contreras , the number one warlord in sonora and the head of the zapata cartel .
not one was older than nineteen , the youngest seventeen papi contreras liked his meat fresh and tender , the more so since hed celebrated his fiftieth birthday the prior week .
he could certainly afford the best , and there was a constant stream of eager girls interested in exchanging their charms for his largesse contreras controlled a significant chunk of the colombian cocaine and mexican methamphetamine traffic that made its way through sonora to the united states , and his annual personal take from the trade exceeded one billion u.s. dollars per year .
contessa was one of three yachts papi owned the larger ones were on the eastern shore of mexico and in costa rica , one docked in cozumel and the other bouncing around central american ports as its owners whims dictated .
contessa was more of a weekend getaway destination , a quick hop from home , whereas the others were good for several weeks aboard .
papi burned roughly twelve million dollars a year keeping his boats in the water before even starting the engines .
they were ready for him at any hour , staffed with full time crews consisting of captains , chefs , deckhands , mechanics , maids , bartenders and masseuses .
security travelled with him at an extra cost .
then again , papi wasnt price sensitive , and couldnt have told anyone precisely what he spent on his lifestyle .
he knew that his plane had cost forty million , and this boat a hundred and twenty , with the others roughly a quarter billion , but when you were rolling a billion or more bucks a year , what did it matter ?
the total hed lavished on toys amounted to what he would clear by june , so it had long ago ceased to have any meaning .
the girls were in high spirits , fueled by a combination of tequila and cocaine , which was one of the other reasons why a place by papis side was coveted you had access to all the high grade chemical supplementation you could want , in addition to the lavish financial generosity afforded to his female companions .
they blew smoke and chatted about clothes and their favorite television programs , taking a break from the fiesta that was winding down inside .
contreras had begun his birthday bash several weeks earlier and had decided to make it a month long event , hopping from destination to destination with his entourage , which consisted of his brother and a group of five or six girls , accompanied by a security detail of two dozen mercenaries .
they flew in a 727 hed acquired for next to nothing when it was put out of service by an american airline and , after ten million in refurbishments at a friends factory in costa rica , it served as his flying army headquarters .
tensions were high between the zapatas and the gulf cartel , as well as the sinaloa cartel , and the outbreaks of violence had escalated until the death toll reached into the hundreds each month .
as with most of the disagreements that resolved in bloody skirmishes , this one had to do with power and money .
the sinaloa cartel felt that sonora was making too much from its relatively insignificant place in the food chain , and was trying to dis intermediate contreras in order to increase its net .
the gulf cartel was more personal contreras had butchered the family of one of the gulfs ranking captains over some real or imagined slight , and that had ignited a blood feud between the two organizations .
all of which was just humdrum business for contreras , who was one of the oldest of the living cartel bosses .
hed invented many of the tactics that were now standard in settling disputes , including beheadings , mass executions with bodies left in prominent places as a warning , the murder of judges and cops , and grenade attacks in densely populated urban areas .
contreras was a maverick in the trade , an innovator , who more than most understood that if you didnt have someone trying to kill you every moment , you were doing something wrong .
contreras had sent the staff and his brother away to stay the night in the hotel perched above the marina so he could enjoy his debauched party with just his companions .
he enjoyed his privacy immensely , even though in his line of work it was a commodity rarer than gold .
as a cartel head , he was constantly surrounded by security personnel so part of the appeal of his boats was the ability to enjoy at least the illusion of seclusion .
the door to the salon slid open again and a heavyset hirsute man with a bushy graying moustache and tousled curly black hair , wearing a versace silk bathrobe and lambskin slippers walked out onto the deck , gesturing to the girls with an unlit cohiba in his right hand .
the youngest , veronica , leapt to her feet with a lighter and rushed to attend to their host .
contreras smiled at her as he puffed on the hand rolled cuban cigar , and playfully slapped one of her perfectly sculpted buttocks after fondling it through her white mini booty shorts for a few moments .
oh , papi !
she exclaimed with a giggle , faux indignation and petulance dripping from every syllable .
eh , so how you girls doing ?
you ready to make a party with your papi ?
come on .
you know how i like it , contreras rasped in his distinctive sonoran accent .
the girls extinguished their cigarettes and exchanged glances .
it was show time .
veronica moved to her two new friends and they began kissing , then caressing each other .
contreras stood by , watching impassively as the action moved from tepid to hot , and clothes began shedding along with any remaining inhibitions .
smooth , creamy brown skin rubbed against the cushions of the semi oval exterior seating area , and soon the girls were largely naked , other than a captains hat the oldest , ana , kept perched precariously on her head even as veronicas probing tongue demanded her attention .
papi opened a small eighteen carat gold box and quickly tapped out two small piles of white powder on the glass exterior bar behind him .
he snorted the heaping lines of cocaine laced with levitra with gusto as he leered at the mnage a trois .
he shook his head and stamped his foot against the teak deck in what he imagined resembled a wild bulls mating display before throwing his head back and grinning crookedly at the moon as it struggled to break through the gathered clouds .
it was a good life he was a lucky man .
this had been a fantastic birthday so far and whoever had said that life began at fifty wasnt lying .
he reached below the bar and extracted a bottle of herradura seleccin suprema tequila and poured a healthy slug of the amber promise into a tumbler before returning his attention to the nubile entertainment .
yes indeed , a great birthday .
he studied the face of his platinum rolex masterpiece and noted the time a little after midnight .
another day older and closer to death .
ah , well .
what was one to do ?
hed try to enjoy himself nonetheless .
ladies .
youre shameless .
move inside and let the games begin .
and save some love for papi !
the security team studiously avoided looking up at the transom of the huge ship , preferring to scan the periphery for signs of intruders .
papis love for the high life was well known and by now the men had seen everything .
it was all fun until he couldnt perform or things turned nasty after too many drugs and the girls ended up begging for forgiveness .
theyd had to bury their fair share of young strippers who had failed to judge his moods correctly .
he was infamous for being mercurial .
a career as a playmate for a narcotraficante was a high risk , high reward proposition in a world where the men were inured to violence and thought nothing of snuffing out life on virtually any premise , including because it amused them to do so .
a pelican rustled its feathers at the waters edge before taking flight , swooping low over the water as it searched out more tranquil surroundings .
two of the sentries swung around at the sound , ready to engage whatever enemy presented itself .
they exhaled with relief when they saw the huge bird lumber into the night air .
everyones nerves were raw from the prior weeks duty , moving from danger zone to danger zone while contreras partied without a care .
they were in friendly territory but that counted for little when he was exposed like this .
every moment held the possibility of an attack by enemies who were every bit as vicious and determined as papi , and when he wasnt in his fortified compound back home , the risk factor went through the roof .
the men were working in shifts , eight guards each shift , four hours on , eight off , so they could steal some rest and stay alert .
after four hours of high intensity patrolling , acuity fell off markedly and human error became more likely .
the cartel game was one where you only got to make one mistake your last .
papi was paying the highest rates in the world for his security they wanted for nothing , but in return , he expected them to keep him safe no matter what , and if that meant every member of the team taking a bullet for him , so be it .
that was the gig .
the sound of the party from the boat was a headache for them , although no one would dare mention it to papi .
but he might as well have painted a big bulls eye on the super yachts bow for any hostiles in the area .
the head of security , alberto , clenched his jaw as the women laughed , each squeal of ecstasy an invitation to disasterin his mind .
the old pervert ought to restrict banging around with his doped up teenagers inside the goddamned boat , not out in the open .
why did he need to make such a public display of it ?
it was recklessly endangering them all .
he sucked down his frustration and concentrated on the job at hand , eyes scanning the surrounding dock area and the buildings for any hint of latent danger .
theyd be back at contreras home compound tomorrow afternoon , and so far there had been no attacks with any luck theyd make it back without incident , where the routine drill would be executed in a more controlled environment where they knew everyone and owned the town .
this was making him nervous exposed on the water , a million miles from nowhere with the boss kite high on powder and bellowing into the night sky as though he was safe in his own living room .
a cat scurried after a large rat on the slick wet concrete path by the shops at the far end of the marina , setting albertos nerves further on edge .
he didnt want to think of how wound up his men must be after almost ten days of constant vigilance .
all he needed was a trigger happy lapse and theyd have the police and military landing on them , which would be a little awkward given that papi was the number four most wanted man in mexico .
money obviously bought selective vision where he was concerned , but it would only go so far .
gunfire at a six star hotels exclusive marina could raise the wrong eyebrows and the last thing alberto needed was an all out gun battle with the military in the dead of night .
he silently cursed contreras for being so careless , then exhaled a sigh of relief when he heard the drug lord call his whores back inside the boat with him .
alberto had six men on land , two on the boat , and one on each side of the bridge superstructure keeping watch for any potential menace that they might miss from the dock .
it would be impossible to sneak up on the yacht from the water in the still of the night a boat would be immediately detected , even if it was being rowed .
but he wanted to ensure that all avenues of attack were covered , so even the waterside was being watched .
contessa was docked on a side tie , her port side fastened to the pilings and the starboard side facing the harbor opening , beyond which the bay stretched into a black nothingness .
if there was going to be an assault it would have to come from the land because theyd have enough warning from the ships radar to take positions on the waterside and cut any encroaching vessel to pieces .
theyd covered all possible approaches yet he was still worried .
maybe it was the place , or maybe because it was the last night of papis latest binge .
but alberto had an ugly feeling in his guts and it wasnt something hed eaten .
his primeval senses tingled as if there was something out there coming for them .
and whatever it was , it meant them harm .
he called to his men for their radio check in everyone responded immediately , sounding alert and precise .
they were the best .
seasoned professional killers from a half dozen countries , making thirty five grand a month each to lay their lives on the line .
he didnt like the odds of anyone foolish enough to take them on in the dead of night .
but his gut still told him they had a problem .
the assassin checked the luminescent face of his stopwatch , noting with satisfaction that he was on schedule .
he listened for the sound of the party at the marina , which was still some distance away .
faint gusts of music muttered a vague cadence over the water .
the target was making it almost too easy for him .
perhaps it was just providence calling time on papi .
but whatever the wheels within wheels of cruel nature , he thanked his lucky stars that hed taken this contract one of the largest hed ever been offered , at a million and a half dollars .
hed planned the attack to the second and researched everything from the marina layout to the surroundings , even going as far as locating blueprints and a schematic for the ship and committing them to memory .
this was his specialty the impossible to carry off execution of untouchables was his stock in trade .
it had made him infamous in a relatively short time .
but this would be the most difficult sanction yet , due to the heightened vigilance of the security team he knew would be on edge the final night of their rough duty , which concluded in a vulnerable location .
hed thought through all possible ways of terminating contreras , and when hed decided on his final plan , even he was impressed at the ingenuity of it .
now he just needed his contractors to be on time and to do their job , and papi was better than dead .
he slipped below the surface of the water and submerged to a depth of fifteen feet .
that would be sufficient for his purposes .
the small waterproof gps unit hed programmed with the coordinates of the dock radiated an orange glow that was readable from three feet away .
by his calculations , he would need ten minutes to swim to his starting position before the plan engaged , though hed allowed himself fifteen , just in case .
better safe than sorry on a night like this .
his tank held sufficient air to breathe for an hour , which he hoped would be far more than necessary .
it had been difficult arranging for all the pieces hed need to end the life of the brutal cartel boss expensive too , but sometimes cost was key .
hed learned through harsh experience not to pinch pennies or cheap out .
by the end of the night hed be far richer , so in the end , whatever his sunk costs were would have paid for themselves .
he was nothing if not pragmatic about the job .
his easy , practiced stroke propelled him smoothly through the warm water as he neared the private marina .
he sensed he was close when he felt a current heralding the mouth of the harbor , as the surging tide pulled him through the broad opening .
visibility was zero in the inky darkness so he was flying entirely by his instruments , which told him he had another hundred and fifty yards to go .
contessa was berthed at the dock closest to the harbors entrance , commanding the entire length , so there was no cover or alternative to doing the dive .
this was the only way to get close .
a commotion from the sea bed startled him with a cloud of muddy sediment .
a large stingray rose from the muck and glided by him , nudging his neoprene encased legs with one of its wings .
more sensing the creature than seeing it , he was momentarily caught off guard .
his respiration increased as he flailed in alarm , causing a rush of bubbles to hurtle to the surface .
battling for control over his breathing , he struggled to slow his heart rate after a few seconds of inward composure , he had it back to beating at a moderate pace .
he didnt pause long to dwell on the near miss , beyond musing that it would be ironic if his meticulously plotted assassination fell apart due to surface froth from a panicked brush with a bottom dwelling myliobatoidei .
another glance at his watch confirmed that he still had five minutes to go .
by his reckoning he should be sixty or so yards from the front of the boat , and ninety from his targeted position .
after a few more moments of swimming , he dimly registered the hull of the massive ship above him an opaque outline floating on an already dark surface , faintly illuminated by lambent swirls of the surrounding marina lights .
carefully calculating the distance , he moved to the spot his schematics told him would be the correct one for his purposes .
from a mesh sack attached to his dive belt , he fished out a suction cup with a handle on one end , which he affixed to the hull .
the assassin could feel the vibration of the big generators that provided all the power when the massive twin mtu turbo diesels were at rest .
as expected , all systems were operating at full bore on the luxurious yacht .
he extracted a waterproof battery powered drill , and after taking one final confirming look at his position on the hull , he jammed the bit against the fiberglass and depressed the trigger .
the diamond tipped steel shredded its way through hard , fibrous material almost five inches thick .
the bit was six .
two minutes later he was through .
he dropped the drill back into his sack and extracted a small gas canister with a rotating valve on the end , where it connected to a custom fabricated seven inch tube that would be a snug fit in the hole .
he jammed it up into the new opening and twisted the valve , wishing he could hear the satisfying hiss that would terminate the target .
hopefully .
that was where part two of the plan came in .
the assassin depressed a button on the suction cup and it dropped away from the hull .
he swam to the far side of the ship that was facing the bay and cautiously poked his head out of the water , right next to the section where the engine vents drew in air .
another glance at his watch confirmed that he had a hundred and forty more seconds before it was show time .
he groped in the sack and , after re submerging , drilled another hole , this time where the central air conditioning units were situated .
he repeated the procedure with a second gas canister and returned to the surface again , hurriedly extending a telescopic tube akin to a car radio antenna .
the assassin fitted a third , larger canister onto the end of the extension and , now in position and prepared , waited for the fireworks to begin .
alberto was the first to hear the big choppers rotors .
by the time he had radioed to his men , the sound of the aircraft had increased to a chattering roar .
a searchlight stabbed through the night , racing over the buildings and then towards the marina , tracing over the assembled boats until it finally alighted on contessas towering mass , blinding the two armed sentries in the top level bridge .
alberto screamed into the radio to his men to hold their fire nobody from the helicopter was shooting .
the piercing light slowly moved along the concrete path , locking onto the armed men and freezing each in place before it moved on to the next .
eventually , satisfied that there was no unusual mischief going on at the marina , the beam shut off and the chopper rose , hovering for another twenty seconds before banking and moving back towards its home base in manzanillo .
alberto swore to himself .
that had been way too close .
it was one of the navy copters , no doubt sent over to check on reports of armed men on the waterfront .
the army and the navy chiefs in the area had been paid off , so there shouldnt have been any problem .
it likely took a couple of radio exchanges before they called off the dogs .
few things in life scared alberto , but the prospect of taking on a contingent of armed mexican marines was one of them the army wasnt a problem , but the marines knew their shit .
they were the equivalent of the american green berets , the toughest of the tough , and they generally meant business .
alberto should know he employed three ex marines who were genuine , authentic hard cases even in a world where blood was spilled casually on a daily basis .
the unexpected fire drill over , the patrols commenced again .
everything returned to a fragile calm .
the night was still , and contessa gently rocked against the swell of the incoming tide , the music from within still booming its siren song into the deep .
the assassin made his way through the cabin to the main stateroom , his silenced pistol at the ready .
hed brought it in a waterproof bag , in which he kept anything that shouldnt get immersed during the dive .
he didnt think hed need to use it , but better to be prepared .
hed pulled his flippers off and set them on the rear deck , where he could grab them in a hurry .
worst case , he could always swim without them , although it would be much rougher going .
that wasnt his most pressing problem now , though .
he needed to memorialize his success and get the proof back to his clients so he could collect the second half of his fee and build his reputation in the process .
he pushed the door to the master stateroom open and encountered a tableaux straight out of hell .
papi lay naked in the center of the bed , surrounded by his three young playmates , also naked .
all were dead .
the nerve gas hed bought from the russians had done its work , circulating via the three zoned air conditioners .
hed been guaranteed that the gas would kill within ten seconds of inhalation , but he needed to be sure .
thats what made him who he was .
he was the man who made sure .
the sight of the female corpses , bloody foam caked around their mouths and noses , already cyanotic , had no effect on him .
this was his job , his chosen profession .
collateral damage was regrettable , but part of the deal .
the girls would have likely been dead within a few years anyway , either at the hands of these goonsor their rivals .
it was a fast money life , which didnt come with a retirement plan .
breathing through his respirator , the assassin studied the dead cartel boss , then fired a single shot through his forehead , more for effect than anything .
he inspected his handiwork dispassionately before reaching into the watertight gun bag for a cell phone and a laminated rectangle .
approaching the man , he positioned the card almost tenderly on his exposed throat before snapping a photo with the phone .
the figure on the card seemed to watch the proceedings without interest , his medieval regal gaze unblinking in perpetuity , the double edged blade of his clutched sword forever pointing at the heavens .
satisfied with his handiwork , the assassin dropped the phone back into the sack and sealed it before placing it into the web bag hanging from his dive belt .
a noise from above jolted him .
he heard movement from up on the bridge heavy footsteps that carried down into the mid ship stateroom , which could signal either a problem or a shift change .
the one part of the plan he hadnt been able to nail was a detailed agenda for the security team .
there was just nobody he could find that could be paid off , so hed had to wing it .
he hoped that wasnt a fatal flaw tonight .
hed know soon enough even though his work was done , he still needed to complete phase two of the sanction , which was often the hardest part the part where he got out alive .
alberto called his men to an area near the dock and briefed the new arrivals .
they would be on shift until four twenty , at which point theyd be relieved by a new , fresh set of eight .
the men handed the replacements their weapons and spare clips , then moved in a group toward the hotel , a wing of which had been booked for the security detail and boat staff .
alberto debated going with them , having already been on for eight hours , but he couldnt eradicate the twisting in his stomach that something was amiss , so he knew there was no way hed be able to sleep .
he held up a pair of night vision goggles and studied the rocks of the jetty that protected the harbor , slowly and carefully scanning every foot of them .
nothing .
a cry from the bridge interrupted his reconnaissance , and he looked up to where one of the new arrivals was waving .
what an idiot .
why didnt he use the radio ?
thats what they were for .
alberto turned the volume up on his handheld and called to the man .
what is it ?
iwas papi or any of the girls swimming earlier today or this evening ?
ive been gone for eight hours .
no .
i dont think so .
why ?
alberto asked , honestly puzzled by the question .
theres a pair of without warning the radio went dead .
the hair on albertos arms stood up as he peered through the goggles up at the bridge .
he couldnt see either of the men who were stationed there as sentries .
bridge .
come in .
repeat .
come in .
do you read me ?
alberto hissed into the radio , his hopes sinking even as he called .
the body of one of the two guards sailed over the side of the bridge , landing in a formless mass four stories below on the concrete surface of the dock near albertos feet .
alberto stared at the body in disbelief , a stain of thick , dark blood quickly pooling around the corpse .
moments later a second corpse hurtled over the security men all rushed toward the yacht , now in full scale attack mode .
the two men on the bridge had been in unassailable positions , with the only access from the rear deckand the salon , where papi had last been seen leading his friends below to his palatial zebra wood paneled stateroom .
the night abruptly exploded into an inferno , temporarily blinding alberto .
from inside the boat , the whump of an incendiary grenade illuminated the interior with a white hot flash before the ensuing blaze erupted from the side windows , shattered from the scorching blast .
a figure in black wearing scuba gear swung from the bridge over the waterside of the ship , dropping the forty feet into the harbor even as alberto hazily trained his weapon on him and opened fire with a hail of bullets .
burst after burst of sizzling lead seared into the water where the diver had submerged , and albertos men quickly joined him , shooting point blank into the surface in the hopes of hitting something .
the assassin allowed himself to sink to the bottom , twenty five feet below the surface .
he kicked a few feet and took cover beneath the gargantuan hull , the bullets tearing harmlessly through the deep where he would have been if he was stupid enough to try to swim out of the harbors mouth .
hed give it a few minutes and let the gunmen exhaust their wrath before doing so he still had sufficient air .
even the most dedicated mercenaries would tire of emptying weapons into the bay for no reason , so it would only be a few more moments before they stopped and began thinking about evacuating before the military arrived to check on the blaze .
it would be a long slog across the bay without the swim fins hed been forced to leave on the aft deck .
that was regrettable .
he made a mental note in the future to bring an extra set with him to attach to the hull , where they would be safely waiting for him if he was forced to make a hasty departure .
he checked his watch and peered through the gloom at his regulator gauge , which he illuminated using the dim glow from the gps .
he had forty five percent left , which would get him out of the harbor and at least halfway across the bay before he needed to jettison the tank and switch to using his snorkel .
with any luck at all he would be on the far side , on the banks of the little fishing hamlet of barra de navidad , within an hour and fifteen minutes , where a battered toyota tacoma sat waiting on a dark , deserted street by the water .
it would be the least expected escape route given it was the farthest point from the ship .
if the security detail still had any fight left in them after losing their meal ticket , theyd deploy to the more obvious areas closer to the yacht , although any pursuit would be hurried due to concerns over the arrival of the marines .
the odds of there being any serious hunt for him were about zero , he knew .
theyd be far more interested in clearing out before they had to explain their heavily armed presence to the military .
from the town of barra , he could be in manzanillo within forty minutes , or better yet , at one of the big hotels just north of town .
they were showing their age , but he still liked las hadras resort as a place to lay low for a few days while waiting for the wire transfer to hit his account .
when he got to shore he would e mail the photo of papi , with his distinctive calling card in glorious display , using his cell phones internet capability .
the client would be suitably impressed , given yet another impossible execution in his notorious string of accomplishments had gone off without a hitch .
the gas had been a novel touch and hed been delighted with the results .
it was short duration and would have blown off within five minutes of entering the air filtration and conditioning system , so the only trace any investigators would find would be the empty canisters wedged into the hull .
at that stage it would be pretty obvious that something in the atmosphere had killed the passengers , so the discovery would have zero effect on anything .
the vendor had done well with the choice the assassin grinned behind the heavy glass mask hed use him again .
reliability in the assassins game was key to sustaining rewarding long term relationships .
rousing himself from his reverie , he began swimming slowly away from the boat , hugging the bottom so as to avoid any telltales to the flashlight beams playing across the surface .
they were wasting their time but he wanted to take no further chances .
he resolved to hold his breath for the two minutes it would take to make it to the harbor entrance and to safety there was no point in increasing the odds of more shooting by leaving an unnecessary bubble trail up top if he didnt have to .
by the time the flames were extinguished there was little left of the ships upper salon or staterooms , other than the main bedroom used by the owner .
when alberto made his way down the shattered stairs to the companionway that led to that area , he already knew in his heart what his eyes would confirm .
his boss , his sacred charge , was dead .
still , nothing could have prepared him for the vision of a naked papi with the tarot card sticking out of his bloody , froth caked mouth , surrounded by the cold blue naked flesh of his nubile companions who had obviously died in excruciating agony .
his blood ran cold when he saw the image of the seated regent protruding from papis face .
hed heard the stories , the rumors of the ghost that came to kill , but had never believed they were true .
until now .
until hed witnessed the handiwork with his own eyes the handiwork of the king of swords , or el rey as he was known in mexico .
he was every heavily protected targets worst nightmare the man who could walk through walls or up the sides of buildings , and from whom no one was safe .
seeing the assassins calling card was a loss of any innocence or hope hed ever had .
because now , alberto knew that there was indeed a boogeyman , a devil that danced in the darkness , a stealer of things precious for delivery to hell .
alberto could say with assurance that there was something that scared him more than the mexican marines , more than torture , more than the prospect of death itself .
he , a man for whom slaughter and killing was mundane , had seen the face of true evil , and it had stared back at him , unflinching .
el rey had come during the night and stolen papis soul .
chapter 2 twenty five years ago , sinaloa , mexico the flames leapt up into the night sky , their eerie flickering the only evidence that anything man made had existed in the deserted field of marijuana plants .
the shacks were ablaze , sending embers shooting into the air as they carried the captives hopes of survival to heaven with them .
the little girl sobbed , terrified of what was to come .
her mother , helpless beside her , howled an incoherent , primal sound into the ground next to the mutilated corpse of her youngest , while futilely struggling against the crude plastic ties that bound her bloody wrists .
this had been the worst night in the toddlers short , harsh life , and it seemed surreal to her .
she hoped it was a nightmare .
the dead form of her father lay sprawled next to her mother , his life extinguished in an unspeakable manner .
she didnt understand any of it .
she wanted to live .
she had so much to do her life was just starting .
true , it had been a difficult existence so far , as the daughter of a dirt poor farmer in the hills of rural mexico another mouth to feed in a hard environment where money was non existent and the family lived off the land .
but , as with most children , she loved her parents wholeheartedly , no matter what the circumstance they were her universe and she had just begun viewing the world as a thing apart from them .
as the seasons came and went , the familys time was spent working their meager patch of land a plot of several acres that had been in the family for over a century .
they survived without any creature comforts , their power provided by an ancient gas powered generator which was used only in emergencies gasoline being far too precious a commodity to waste on luxuries such as lights .
there was no plumbing their water came from an artesian well .
still , it was a life , her life , and the only one shed known in her four years on the planet and like most organisms , she wanted it to continue as long as possible .
then the unthinkable had happened .
the men had arrived in their huge truck , and soon the shack the little family called home was ablaze and her sister and father were no longer of this world .
and now she kneeled , crying while she murmured the only prayer she knew , hoping it would work as a talisman to keep the bad men at bay .
our father , who arth in heaven , she lisped in a soft , tremulous tone .
she swiveled her head and watched as an older man , who had just arrived after their field had been set alight , walked slowly back to his vehicle holding the hand of a young boy her brother .
one of the remaining two men moved beside her and grabbed her mothers hair , lifting her to her knees , her grief shrieking in gasping sobs even as she trembled in shock and fear .
her shoulders shook the shabby sleeves of her torn peasant dress , now bloody and filthy from the abuse shed received at the hands of the animals who stood by them with their pistols and cowboy boots .
a gunshot rang out , deafening the little girl her mother fell forward onto the bloody dirt , her suffering ended , gone to join her husband and baby .
the little girl cried to the silent god who had abandoned her , an innocent , even as she continued to recite the words shed been assured would protect her through anything .
thy king done come she closed her eyes against the horror of the scene and imagined a place where she would be forever young , playing in a beautiful grass field with puppies and ponies her father , young , healthy and vibrant running beside her as her mother tossed her baby sister into the air , eliciting squeals of glee from the delighted tike .
she sensed the cold menace of the gun barrel against the back of her tiny head , and redoubled her efforts to send her maidez to her creator .
thy will be the lead ripped through her cerebrum , abruptly terminating her brief sojourn on earth .
her frail body tumbled lifelessly to the ground .
for her , the ordeal was over .
the men watched as the cannabis caught fire , fed by the gasoline that had been so frugally saved for the familys power , their butchery merely another days work in their brutal world of enforcement of their absolute power .
both would sleep well that night , their consciences long ago having been discarded as impediments to their working for the group that would later become the sinaloa cartel the most powerful and ruthless of the mexican narcotraficantes .
the nights drama had been another in a long line of horrors theyd inflicted on their fellow men in order to solidify their jefes control over the region .
the citizenry only understood and respected one thing , and that was brute force .
they were the delivery system for that primal justice , and they knew that nobody would ever miss the peasant family or question the events of that night .
it was all business as usual nobody wanted to have the men visit their home if they were too inquisitive about what had happened or where the farmer and his family had gone .
the events would remain just another footnote in the slaughter that was an ongoing part of the drug traffic in mexico .
there was nobody to defend the innocents , and so they perished , as countless others had before them in brutal episodes that determined nothing .
mexicos soil was steeped in the blood of the helpless the men knew that nobody would mourn them .
they had no power , no clout , and so were disposable .
the enforcers returned to their truck , which started with a roar , and they tore off into the night , down the dirt track that led to civilization , such as it was .
twenty years ago , sinaloa , mexico horses whinnied as they galloped around the periphery of the open field .
the men gathered in the center whistling at the ponies as they celebrated their temporary equestrian freedom .
a sprawling mission style hacienda sat imposingly in the distance easily twenty thousand feet of interior space built on a bluff overlooking a river which burbled softly below it as it carried fresh water from the mountains , so vital for the irrigation of the regions crops , which were mainly tomatoes and marijuana .
the majority of the cannabis grown in mexico came from sinaloa , and it had been this harvest that had been instrumental in the creation of the modern cartel system .
originally , only a few families engaged in the trafficking of marijuana to the u.s. , along with heroin of moderate quality and purity produced in modest , local fields .
it had been a small business , operated like a cottage industry , tightly held with a minimum of violence other than turf wars over growing and distribution rights .
then , in the late 1970s , the dynamics had shifted the smuggling networks that had been engaged in this relatively benign trade took on the burden of moving cocaine through mexico for the colombian cartels , and then the money got much bigger as the cali and medellin cartels grew increasingly reliant on their mexican smugglers to get the product to the u.s .
this naturally led to a situation where the mexicans began getting paid in product , versus cash , driving them to become distributors , as opposed to transporters and the money involved took another quantum jump .
by the early 1990s , the mexican cartels were handling much of the trafficking for the colombians , whose cartels had disintegrated in the late 1980s with their survivors now focused mainly on manufacturing .
within a little over a decade , a small business had become a multi billion dollar industry and the various factions fought it out for the rights to their geographical areas .
by 1990 , the sinaloa cartel was the most powerful in all mexico in all the world , in fact primarily because the godfather of the mexican drug trade , miguel angel flix gallardo , was from culiacan , the capital of sinaloa .
it was he who ran a hundred percent of the trade through mexico during the seventies and eighties , and he who had the relationships with the colombians .
in the mid eighties , he decided to divide up mexico into regions , so the power that was naturally concentrated in sinaloa remained there , with the other cartels acting as satellites to that main central group .
that changed when gallardo went to prison in the late eighties , which created a vacuum in the leadership and opened the door for the smaller , less important cartels to assert a better foothold .
in particular , the tijuana cartel and the juarez cartel had jockeyed for greater sway and a larger chunk of the profits , leading to often bloody wars with their sinaloa brethren .
the group of men watching the horses laughed easily together , cans of tecate tempering the worst of the mid day heat .
it was fall , the storm season was largely over , but the temperatures could still reach the high nineties during the day , bringing with it substantial humidity .
the oldest of the men , don miguel lopez , a tall , lean man with the leathery complexion that came from a lifetime outdoors , had his left hand resting on the shoulder of a ten year old boy , already lanky from the summers growth spurt that had left him all arms and legs , an alien in an unfamiliar body .
it was his birthday and , at ten , it was time for him to begin learning the skills hed require to survive in an ever competitive world .
in mexico , with a head of the household who was one of the original ranking members of the sinaloa cartel , that translated into more than reading , writing and arithmetic .
don miguel , the elder statesman of the group , smoothed his mustache and lifted his cowboy hat , wiping away the sweat from his brow with a soiled red cloth handkerchief he carried for that purpose , and then patted the boys shoulder .
its time for you to learn about the way of the world .
as part of your birthday , im handing you over to emilio here , who will teach you everything youll need to know about maintaining a healthy body and mind , as well as about horses and weapons .
and who knows maybe when youre older , he can even teach you a thing or two about women , don miguel joked .
the surrounding men obligingly laughed at his playful sense of fun .
my business will be demanding an increasing amount of my time and ill be traveling much of the year , so im entrusting you to emilios capable hands .
youre to treat him with the same respect you would afford me .
are we clear on that ?
hes your mentor , which is a position of honor , but its also one of responsibility , and if you fail to apply yourself it will reflect poorly on him .
the boy nodded his understanding .
he didnt talk much had never seen much point to it .
even at his tender age hed discovered that it wasnt what people said , it was what they did that counted , so engaging in what he viewed as meaningless banter served no purpose .
he looked up at emilios wizened face , battered by the cruel vagaries of a fickle universe , and fixed the man with his gaze remarkable in its intensity , especially given that he was just a boy .
emilio regarded him and then grunted , gesturing with his head for the boy to follow him .
the pair walked toward the stables and , once out of view of the men , emilio got down on one knee so as better to get his point across .
my job is to make you a man .
i know your history , and im here to tell you nothing matters but the present and the future .
where youve been ?
thats meaningless .
nobody cares .
the only reason the past matters is so you can learn from it .
thats the whole reason making mistakes and surviving them matters .
experience is what we call the mistakes we survive .
emilio grinned , and tussled the boys hair .
and ive got a lot of experience .
so youre going to stick with me , eh ?
every day , before you go to school , we will spend an hour together learning how to discipline your body .
every afternoon after school , youll spend three hours with me , learning how to discipline your mind .
once you have both under total control , well proceed to the fun stuff learning how to shoot , ride , swim , hunt , and how to stay hidden .
but i cant teach you anything until you have control over yourself .
the boy glared at him dubiously , his dislike of the situation and his new mentor obvious .
emilio swatted him on the side of the head , just enough to get his attention .
you see ?
you dont have control .
you cant hide your emotions , so youre an open book to anyone who wants to read you .
you dont like me , and its obvious so i now have power over you .
youve given me that power by failing to contain your feelings , and i can use it to hurt you .
so your first lesson is to control your emotions .
if not , theyll control you , and youll be blown around like a leaf , always reacting to whatever storm is taking place in your brain .
even at ten years old , the boy had learned to listen .
emilio could see the wheels turning in his small head as he absorbed what the older man had said .
it doesnt matter to me whether we do this the easy way or the hard way .
either will work .
if youre interested in proving youre stubborn , save your energy for something that matters .
you want to prove something , show me youre determined youll have plenty of chances .
my job is to build you into a leader , a man others will look up to , who makes smart decisions with a level head , and who never , ever loses his cool .
youll soon figure out that its better to put some effort into learning what im teaching rather than fighting it .
in the end , resisting the lessons will just be delaying the inevitable , which is getting to the fun parts .
so decide .
make a choice , then eliminate all other possible outcomes .
that will be your road .
i hope you select a good one , emilio concluded , and then opened the barn door and moved inside to the bales of hay .
he studied the pile and motioned with his hand to the old pitchfork leaning against the far wall .
happy birthday .
starting today , and every day until i tell you that you can stop , i want you to move the hay from these bales , over to this pile by the feeding trough .
spend one hour per day doing it , every morning before school .
emilio glanced at the boy , who now regarded him impassively .
the old man reached into his pocket , and produced a new stainless steel wrist watch , tearing off the tags as he examined the clasp .
he looked at the time and then tossed it to the boy , who snatched it out of the air with ease .
thats my birthday gift to you .
its always important to give , in order to get .
i see youre right handed by your catch .
that can be a liability over time .
well work together so that you can do any task with either hand , equally comfortably .
if youre ever wounded in one arm , you can use the other , and that edge could be the difference between you living or dying on the floor .
everything i do has a reason .
but for now , start on the hay .
do you know how to read a clock ?
how to tell time on that watch ?
the boy nodded his head in the affirmative .
another lesson .
never tell me you know something if you dont .
i dont mind it if you dont know not knowing if you havent been shown isnt your fault .
not knowing because you werent shown because you pretended to knowthats stupidity , emilio cautioned .
i know how to tell time how to read a clock .
im not stupid , the boy declared angrily .
ah , so he speaks .
very good .
but you still havent learned my first lesson .
by showing me how youre feeling , either with your voice , or eyes , or body , youre giving me an advantage over you .
and i can use that to destroy you .
so well work on you learning to control your emotions , to be cool and collected at all times .
its the first lesson ill teach you , and probably the single most valuable .
emilio studied the boys features , the dark brown eyes radiating a quiet intensity .
once you master the ability to manage your inner domain , you will have power over others , instead of them having power over you .
learning to do so is a matter of practice .
the more you practice , the more composed youll become , and the faster youll progress .
its not just about hiding your emotions from others its about arresting your state .
if you lose control , you lose .
its that simple .
if nothing else , always remember that .
you lose .
emilio glanced at the pitchfork , then back at the boy .
and something tells me you dont like losing , eh ?
well , heres another piece of experience from a lifetime of mistakes winning takes work usually a lot of it .
and practice .
and commitment .
which is where i come in .
so , happy birthday , treat your watch with care and it will function well for many years and get to the hay its not going to move itself .
emilio turned and strode out of the building and onto the dirt riding path , leaving the boy to his thoughts .
emilio could tell he was one tough little bastard , that was for sure .
it wouldnt be easy reining him in .
it was the same with the horses .
you had to break their spirits sufficiently so that they could learn how to behave in a productive manner , but not crush them entirely you wanted a thoroughbred that desired to winor it became a plow horse .
don miguel was a smart man , and he had been clear that he expected the boy groomed to be a suitable heir to his rapidly expanding fortune .
the next five or six years would be the ones that forged the boys character and made him into whatever he would ultimately be .
tough was good .
so was stubborn .
and smart .
don miguel had stressed how intelligent the boy was , devouring every book he could get his hands on .
that could be a powerful combination of character traits .
emilio would steer him in a direction where he had an outlet for his obvious simmering anger .
the don didnt have time to raise him and teach him what hed need to know .
every day brought more and more threats to the dons survival the truth was , he would be in hiding much of the time , directing his affairs from a safe distance .
don miguel was now a major player in the mexican trafficking scheme , but with the spoils came the risks .
there was a constant and never ending supply of enemies who would cut his throat for the slightest advantage .
the danger was very real and immediate .
so he would leave his beloved estancia , his horses , and become a general in the ongoing war , coming home only for brief visits when he deemed it to be safe .
it was an unforgiving existence that could end at any moment , but it was the life hed chosen , and now he ran things in much of northern sinaloa he was becoming a fabulously wealthy man , even by cartel standards .
in the dons business , there was no retiring , no quitting to pursue other interests .
the trade operated according to the law of the jungle you kept killing until something killed you .
if you were the meanest and smartest predator , perhaps youd have a long life .
so far , don miguel had proved to be up to every challenge .
that could change in a blink , but emilio didnt think so .
he was one in a million easily a genius , as well as utterly ruthless and clinically calculating .
that combination of traits was rare , especially in a business that boasted more testosterone than a boxing club .
but the don was also looking to the future .
he realized that the boy would always be a target , no matter what pursuit he chose as an adult .
which meant that he needed to be equipped with skills that would enable him to survive in a world filled with enemies .
even if he didnt become a predator himself , he would need to learn the lessons that would keep him from showing his soft underbelly to those that would cheerfully rip out his entrails .
emilio was the boys best shot at survival .
he would teach him the lessons he would need to learn well in order to stay alive , and hopefully to flourish .
he would make the boy into a man .
starting today .
chapter 3 sixteen years ago , sinaloa , mexico the boy had grown considerably over the thousand days since emilio had taken over his care , and had mastered all of the tasks hed been assigned .
he was remarkably self possessed , excelled in his studies , and had worked diligently on his exercises .
emilio had transitioned him from hay to a real workout , in order to keep up with his rapidly developing physique .
his upper body was sculpted by a series of isometric exercises , culminating in chin ups and push ups his lower body was conditioned with increasingly longer runs .
even as he approached his fourteenth birthday , he could easily be mistaken for two years older and his gait had taken on the measured confidence of an athlete .
don miguel had occasionally stopped by and each time hed been surprised by the boys development .
gone for six months at a time , it seemed that with each visit , the boy was a few inches taller and sporting a few more pounds of muscle .
don miguel was pleased with the metamorphosis and indicated his satisfaction with generous increases in the boys allowance , as well as in emilios remuneration .
the boy was now easily half of emilios workload because the number of skills to be learned increased with his age .
he was already an accomplished horseback rider and swimmer , and had shown considerable aptitude for archery .
it wasnt unusual for the boy to spend hours each day patiently firing at targets with his hunting bow , gradually increasing the distance as he mastered a given range .
that was how he approached things methodically , analytically .
hed quickly taken emilios counsel to heart and worked at controlling his emotions no matter what the stimuli .
emilio had taught him any number of tricks to help him remain detached and calm in any situation .
on his fourteenth birthday , don miguel was nowhere to be found , but had sent a substantial financial stipend to be lavished on the boys newest tier of training weapons .
emilio had received instructions to teach him to become proficient with handguns and rifles , and had sourced a variety of guns of all shapes and sizes .
by this point , he knew the boy would practice until he excelled at whatever the challenge was and he wasnt disappointed with his firearms progress .
within a year , the boy was a crack shot with any weapon you handed him , firing either right or left handed .
hed become ambidextrous through discipline and application , and spent three to four hours every afternoon at the private shooting range emilio and he had constructed for his use .
firearms were illegal in mexico , but out in the country , with no neighbors for miles and with all the local police on the payroll , nobody seemed to mind the constant volleys of shots that echoed through the trees for hours on end .
nobody was being hurt , no harm was done and everyone was getting bountiful christmas bonuses each year , so there was no reason to rock any boats .
it was live and let live as far as law enforcement was concerned , which worked out in everyones best interests .
the boy quickly grew comfortable with any guns provided to him .
as his fourteenth year transitioned into his fifteenth , he was exceeding all expectations emilio had of him .
one afternoon , shortly after the boys fifteenth birthday , emilio performed the ultimate pistol test , bringing with him a smith and wesson .357 magnum revolver and a ruger 9mm semi automatic .
he set up two coffee cans thirty yards away from each other , paced off forty yards with the boy and held out both handguns .
the target on the left , shoot with your left hand using the revolver .
the one on the right , use the ruger .
fire as quickly as you can while maintaining accuracy , emilio instructed .
the boy hefted both pistols , getting a feel for their weight .
he knew from hundreds of hours of experience that firing a big bore revolver required different skills than a smaller caliber automatic .
besides the difference in recoil , which was considerable and had to be adjusted for , a revolver used each trigger pull to rotate the cylinder that held the bullets , requiring significantly more pressure and causing a reflex that would make most shooters fire high , pulling up from the target .
firing a revolver with both hands in a military crouch was hard enough , but doing so with his weak hand while adjusting for the low recoil of the ruger was an almost impossible challenge .
how many pounds of trigger pressure on the ruger ?
the boy asked .
i wonder , if youre in a situation where you have to use someone elses weapon , whether theyll be able to answer that for you ?
my guess is , not , emilio replied .
the boy shrugged .
never hurt to ask .
he calculated the distance and then began firing , alternating weapons , rapidly , but not in an uncontrolled manner .
the pair of cans , which theyd filled with water , sprouted leaks .
after emptying both weapons in their direction they walked over to inspect the results .
of six possible hits from the revolver , five had found their mark .
all nine that emilio had loaded the ruger with found theirs .
heh .
not bad .
i would have guessed you wouldnt have hit any with the revolver .
the only problem is that the one you didnt hit it with might have been the one you needed to save your life .
well need to practice this more , switch things up on you .
and i want to start practicing shooting while running or riding in a vehicle soon .
once you master being able to hit anything using whatever youre handed from a still position , well kick it up a notch and have you simulate real combat situations where youre not stationary .
this was high praise from emilio , who was grudging with his accolades .
the boy smiled .
he understood his performance was extraordinary .
nobody he knew could have done it .
but emilio was right .
there was no room for error , and no satisfaction to be had from being almost great .
emilios only concern as the boy matured was the inevitable interest that he showed toward his daughter , jasmine .
she was a year younger than the boy but already a beauty , thankfully reflecting her mothers genes rather than emilios .
also highly intelligent , she was every bit the boys match when it came to anything intellectual , and there had been a simmering kind of sibling rivalry between them since theyd first met .
jasmines mother had died when she was five , leaving emilio to shoulder the burden of raising her , assisted by his sister and mother .
one of the benefits of being a breadwinner of secure means with a generous employer like don miguel was that you could help support family members , and emilio did his fair share .
in return for which , the ladies , as he called them , raised jasmine while he was working .
it wasnt a perfect situation but it had done well enough by her and shed blossomed into a gorgeous , charming example of classical mexican beauty , all gleaming black hair , white teeth and coffee kissed skin .
the only quirk shed shown was a deep interest in the occult , driven no doubt by a frustrated desire to somehow relate to her departed mother .
she was catholic , of course , as was everyone in sinaloa they knew , but shed grown restive with the faith and had taken to reading tomes of dubious virtue , on divining , and psychic powers , levitation and transmutation , and all manner of arcane , esoteric disciplines .
jasmine had of late been sneaking out and spending time with an old woman who claimed to read fortunes in ones palm , as well as through studying tea leaves all for a price , of course .
emilio had been worried , but the ladies had assured him that it was just a phase a way to appear more mysterious as she came of age .
hed never understood women , having found them all equally inscrutable and impossible to read , so in the end hed decided to take the advice of his mother and sister and let the fascination run its course .
emilios days consisted of working with the boy and the horses .
once both children were home from school , his attention focused almost exclusively on the boy , leaving jasmine to be trained by the ladies in the feminine ways of the world .
this wasnt because of any lack of love on emilios part .
on the contrary , he lived for jasmine .
it was just that as shed grown from a child into an adolescent hed felt out of his depth , and now that she was thirteen , and moody , her body sprouting the curves that would attract members of the opposite sex like bees to honey , he had no idea how to deal with her .
he rationalized that this was natural , and would hopefully also pass .
she just needed to be around other women , to learn whatever it was they learned while he taught the boy how to do masculine things .
one friday before easter , the boy had come home from school with a bloody nose and some abrasions on his face , which after some hard questioning turned out had come about from a fight with an older bully who had been bothering jasmine during recess he had grown increasingly abusive and insulting as the day had worn on .
the boy had rushed to defend jasmines honor , only to be pummeled by the larger student , whose two years of seniority was enhanced by growing up in a household with three brothers who had taught him to fight .
the boys education hadnt yet moved to manual self defense , but , looking at his bruised face , emilio decided it was time to teach him how to use his fists .
as with most things , the boy learned quickly and , within a few weeks , had mastered the basics of the primitive form of martial arts emilio knew really just a combination of rudimentary boxing and street fighting techniques .
but the boy was a sponge , and once hed exhausted emilios capabilities he lobbied for more advanced training and given that it was emilios job to provide him with the fullest possible education , they researched alternatives and quickly found a plethora of options .
culiacan was the nearest large city , a half hour drive from the ranch .
it had a number of martial arts schools specializing in judo , karate , and kung fu .
the boy convinced emilio that his development warranted three classes a week .
he added the stylized moves and holds he learned to his exercise routine , striving to perfect those as he had so many others .
there were no more incidents at school after the next altercation when the boy knocked the older punk unconscious within a few seconds of the fight starting , the bully abruptly lost his taste for hassling jasmine or picking on either of them .
his classmates treated him with polite and cautious deference from that point on .
he didnt mix with the rest of his peers and showed no interest in friendships beyond casual greetings in passing in the halls .
that was more than enough interaction for him he viewed his fellow students as inferior in every way not because he was arrogant , but rather because hed run an equation and found them wanting and immature .
they were children , given to excitement or emotional flights , whereas he was almost an adult , always restrained .
he was quiet and withdrawn and tended to keep to himself , preferring to limit his mingling to jasmine during recess .
they had grown close by virtue of their shared male authority figure .
it was a brother sister relationship , for the most part , but the ladies had cautioned both emilio and jasmine that things would have to change once they both matured .
shortly after he turned sixteen and she fifteen the inevitable occurred the two became inseparable in spite of admonitions from the adults .
jasmine was gorgeous by then , and at an age when many mexican girls in past generations were married and having their first children , so it was foolish high hope on everyones part to expect that the two wouldnt find each other , living out in the country as they did , and in the same compound .
the boy had grown from a gangly colt into a self possessed young man with looks that made females glance at him twice , and jasmine radiated a beauty that was dazzling to behold .
one afternoon after school they had been hanging around the corral , the heat of the approaching summer heavy in the air , and the boy and jasmine had spied each other across the field and gravitated to the fence , the horses within the enclosure prancing as they trotted around and around , two ranch hands minding them with watchful eyes .
so , what are you up to ?
jasmine asked , her furtive glance taking in the boys glistening chest , a thin sheen of perspiration lingering from his afternoon workout .
nothing .
same as ever .
last days of school for the year , and constant practice with your father .
ah , yes , the practice .
thats got to get old after a while , she said , offering a gleaming smile .
everything gets old after a while , the boy said , his voice sounding more mature than his years , the timbre having changed that spring from the higher pitch of an adolescent .
she took a sidelong glance at him and noticed that hed begun shaving recently , his upper lip darkened by a dusting of stubble , and something in her lurched at the sight of his chiseled profile .
they watched the horses , and then a third ranchero approached leading a large brown stallion , the proud creature tossing its head side to side as it trailed the man .
the other two ranchers drove the remaining ponies out of the corral and towards the barn , the way familiar to them from countless days of training , leaving only one tan mare , still frisky with the energy of youth .
a fourth cowboy entered the corral , and clicking his tongue , moved to the mare and quieted her , feeding her sugar as he murmured in her ear and stroked her head , her flanks quivering from her earlier exertions .
jasmine sucked in her breath as the stallion was taken to the mare , and her complexion flushed as the stallion mounted the female and the two horses mated a not uncommon occurrence on the ranch , but one that had increasingly drawn her interest of late .
the boy eyed the proceedings with marginal interest , his attention drawn more by jasmines smooth skin and flashing eyes than anything equestrian related .
when the show was over , electricity seemed to crackle between jasmine and the boy , unspoken but as powerful as a lightning strike .
come on .
i want to show you something , jasmine said , her voice tight as she brushed back her glossy black hair with slender fingers , revealing a perfectly sculpted neckline and delicately formed ears , wisps of black curls framing each , small gold studs catching the sun .
the boy nodded , swallowing hard , his mouth suddenly dry , and they walked to the edge of the clearing and then into the heavy woods surrounding the ranch .
where are you going ?
he asked , but she didnt answer with anything but a shush as she led the way .
eventually they reached a stream they had both spent many summers enjoying , its cool clear water flowed down from the nearby mountains , the rushing of the current over the time worn rocks musical to their ears .
the heat of the day had built to the low nineties , muggy before an approaching storm , and the change in the atmosphere near the water was palpable .
i just wanted to get away for a while .
its so damned hot at the house , and theres nothing to do .
im bored , she complained , her lips flashing the hint of a smile as she took in the stream .
how about you ?
dont you get tired , every day the same thing , never anything new ?
its driving me crazy he moved to the edge of the bank and picked up a small flat stone , then tossed it into the swirling current .
sure .
who wouldnt ?
he admitted , and then they both fell silent , contemplating the streams gentle surge .
jasmine sat down near the water and then lay back on the grass , considering the configuration of the sparse , puffy clouds overhead as though they held some sort of secret .
she shifted her gaze to his face , and when she caught his eye the boy sat next to her , another rock in his hand , his repertoire of small talk exhausted .
hed always been easy in her presence , a familiarity bred from years of proximity , but now , suddenly , everything felt different , and he couldnt think of anything to say .
a warm breeze stirred the surrounding trees , and for a moment , time stood still , the perfection of the instant lingering as though it could last forever .
jasmine rolled towards him and reached up with a trembling hand , then pulled him down to her , no words required .
he hesitated for a brief instant and then he was lying next to her , her scent vaguely floral , as inviting as anything hed ever dreamt of .
his lips found hers and his eyes closed even as hers remained open , a faraway look in them neither would have recognized .
the boys tentative gentleness gradually shifted to a more aggressive confidence , and soon an urgency was building in him that dictated its own pace .
her rhythm matched his , a new , unfamiliar hunger now in control of her , a need that had been little more than a smolder suddenly flaring up to become an out of control blaze .
they were both breathless when she pushed him away and sat up , seeming to arrive at an important decision as his awareness returned to the present from whatever miraculous destination hed found in her arms .
she rose , his puzzled gaze trailing her as she peered at the water , then fixed him with a playful look as she smoothed her dress , her hands lingering on the white cotton a little longer than normal .
im hot .
lets cool off , she said , and then , surprising him as much as anything ever had , jasmine pulled the light summer dress over her head and kicked off her sandals , her perfect youthful curves clad in only a straining bra and a pair of pink cotton panties .
the boy was speechless at the nearly naked immediacy of her nubile body , but before he could regain his composure she had turned from him and slipped her bra off , then taken a tentative step into the water , and then another , the sight of her tan skin and flawless back mesmerizing until she was immersed to her neck in a deep pool ten yards upstream .
come on .
its wonderful , she invited , and he glanced down at his shirt and pants , the evidence of his arousal obvious .
he grinned and shrugged , then stripped off his shirt , the hardened slabs of muscle chiseled from his relentless exercise regimen riveting jasmines gaze as he stepped out of his shoes , and then he pulled off his jeans and tossed them on top of her dress .
when he made it to jasmine , in the pool where they had taken their refreshment countless times as children , she welcomed him in a decidedly more mature way , her legs wrapping around his waist as she kissed him again , this time deeper , a low moan escaping from her recesses as their lips and tongues met , and for a fleeting moment he felt like he ruled the world , was capable of anything , a man , now , finally , who had found his elusive meaning in life .
the day passed in a fog of desire , their appetites finally unleashed , the forbidden secrets of each others bodies now an accessible wonder to be explored .
when they returned to the compound three hours later , he first , in order to avoid any suspicion from the staff , followed by jasmine a short time later , both knew something important had forever changed , and no matter what anyone said , they belonged now , and each answered only to the other , the outside world an annoyance that would never understand what theyd shared .
the couple found time to sneak away even while under near constant watch , as young lovers often do , confounding the best intentions of their guardians .
theyd spend long hours in each others arms , in the barn , or hidden away in one of the recesses of the main house , or at their original rendezvous spot at the stream .
once theyd fully discovered their passion they were like prisoners whod crossed a long , dry desert and found themselves at an oasis .
their coupling soon became a daily event and for the first time in his life , the boy found himself enraptured by another human being .
his attraction to jasmine was magnetic and primal , and before long he was hers , body and soul , willing to go to any lengths to be with her or make her happy .
the boy was even willing to entertain jasmines quirky ideas about the nature of reality , and indulged her penchant for spirituality and the paranormal , which had gradually developed into a borderline obsession .
every other utterance from her was regarding what fate , or the stars , wanted , which the boy attributed to her exotic nature and bored intellect .
but she was deadly serious about her belief that there was more to the universe than what could be proved or seen , and so it was that three months after his sixteenth birthday he found himself agreeing to accompany her to the lair of an old woman who claimed to be a medium , so she could divine his future .
that morning , they set off down the road on their bicycles , followed by a pick up truck carrying three men wearing cowboy hats and toting assault rifles .
even though don miguel was hardly ever in evidence , he insisted that the boy be protected at all times as though an attack on the ranch was imminent .
this was just another way in which he was different than his cartel brethren he was a meticulous planner and left nothing to chance .
that had stood him in good stead throughout his life he was ever vigilant to possible threats to his family or entourage .
when they reached the clapboard hovel where the woman lived and conducted her dubious business , marked with a battered roadside sign ringed with crudely painted moons and stars proclaiming madame sirena to be a medium extraordinaire , the truck pulled to a stop a discreet distance from the dwelling .
the young couple leaned their bicycles against the front of the house and , hand in hand , ascended the three rickety steps .
jasmine knocked on the door , and flakes of sun bleached paint dusted her knuckles , the sound of their arrival echoing off the cinderblock walls .
after a considerable pause , the weathered door was opened by an ancient gray haired woman wearing a red gauze gypsy shawl trimmed in small gold coins .
she fixed them both with a one eyed stare the vision in her other eye having been lost long ago .
the boy felt momentary revulsion when he saw her milky white pupil , but hid his reaction and braved a tentative smile .
ah .
so this is the young man !
welcome , jasmine , mi amor .
welcome .
look at him .
hes a strapping one , yes ?
handsome , you were right about that , and strong as a bull , id wager .
come in , come in , madame sirena insisted , gesturing at the gloomy interior with her claw like hand .
the boy noted in passing that she smelled like hastily applied cheap rose water , and sweat a thoroughly objectionable combination that would stay with him as a reminder of unpleasantness for the rest of his life .
here .
sit at the table .
lets see what we have , eh ?
first ill look at your palm , and see what the gods have written for you in terms of love and lifeand then ill do a reading .
she peered at them in the gloom , a crafty expression on her wizened face .
its customary to leave a tribute for the spirits divine cooperation in producing an accurate reading , young man , she hissed at him , in what he presumed she imagined to be a sly manner .
jasmine nudged him with her elbow and the boy fumbled in his pocket and fished out a hundred peso note , placing it in the straw bowl the woman had balanced near the tables edge .
the bowl and the money quickly disappeared and then the madame moved around the room , lighting candles and incense .
she pushed the button on a portable stereo sitting on a decrepit book shelf vaguely asian music began to drift from the tiny speakers , low volume , atmospheric dissonance to create a mood , more than anything .
the boy studied the walls and noted with amusement that there were countless photographs of mediums and sances and spooky looking scenes , interspersed with turn of the century posters depicting supernatural events and expositions .
the overall effect was somewhat clumsy , but effective for the local peasantry , he supposed .
what jasmine found so fascinating about it all was beyond him , but if it made her happy , so be it .
accepting her fascination without judgment seemed a small enough price to pay to find heaven in her embrace .
the crone approached the table and switched on a dusty yellow hanging lamp with an intricate brocade shade that directed most of the light to the center of the table .
she sat across from the boy and gestured at him .
give me your hand .
the right hand .
palm up .
just relax .
this wont hurt .
much , she assured him , then cackled .
he wondered whether shed gotten her act out of central casting for a c level horror film , the kind that were popular at the local cinemas with badly dubbed spanish or blurry subtitles .
still , he played along , and dutifully placed his hand on the table .
the woman took it in hers and made a variety of sounds intended to signal deep thought , no doubt .
hmmmm .
mmmmyesssss .
oh .
i see your love line is clear .
you will only have one real love in your life , and it will be early in your time here .
hmmmm .
your lifeline is different .
its long , but has many breaks , signaling something unusual .
maybe illness , maybe brushes with death .
but it continues , so you will prevail through it allhmmmm .
this went on for a while and he feigned polite interest in the ambiguous generalities about his possible future .
of course , with jasmine sitting there listening , love would be early and intense and genuine , which held an element of truth .
when he was with jasmine , he felt like an eagle soaring above the clouds .
the intensity of his feelings for her was almost scary .
it gave her power over him , which his training advised him to recoil from .
still , hormones were not to be denied , and he was smitten , that was for sure .
the palm reading finished , the old woman trundled over to a cabinet and withdrew an ancient deck of cards , placing it on the table after shuffling the tattered rectangles for several minutes .
this is the tarot .
it knows all , and tells all .
nobody can hide the truth from the tarot , and its words possess the wisdom of the ages .
sure they do .
a hundred of my pesos worth , to be exact .
including the cheesy canned tunes and the gypsy act .
he wished shed get on with it .
he could think of a dozen different things hed rather be doing with jasmine just now , all of them involving nudity and not one of them included an old crones hackneyed ramblings .
the woman began her ritual , and paused at the end after shed revealed all the cards .
the boy was absently studying the photos on the stained wall behind her , his attention caught by a photograph of a raven , or perhaps a crow , perched on a barbed wire fence .
something about it chilled his blood , but he didnt know why .
hed tuned out her prattle as his gaze had roamed over the images , thinking thoughts worthy of his energy rather than listening to superstitious mumbo jumbo .
his awareness grudgingly returned to the table , pulled from the photo of the crow , as the putative madame contemplated the meaning of the cards .
she pointed at several with a trembling finger .
this is death .
its placement in the reading is ominous .
it can signal many things , but in this sequence , it hints that you will be constantly surrounded by death .
the woman continued droning , but the boy was zoning out again .
gee , good guess .
living in culiacan , with don miguel as your protector and benefactor , youre going to be surrounded by death .
what a stretch , and a surprise to one and all .
the nonstop weapons and survival training that jasmine had no doubt chatted with the woman about couldnt have been a tipoff or anything .
hell , all he had to do was close his eyes and he could bring death to the surface , fresh as though it had only occurred just yesterday .
incredibly insightful so far .
he was getting his moneys worth .
what was next ?
danger ?
uncertainty ?
and this , the defining card , is the king of swords .
but its inverted .
which is a negative sign .
it can mean many things , most of which involve destruction and selfish consequences inverted ?
the boy asked , finally interested in something shed said .
its upside down , the medium explained in a tremulous voice .
not to me , the boy observed .
he was sitting opposite her .
they were both correct .
the tense reading drew to an uncomfortable and abrupt close , the woman seeming suddenly anxious to be rid of them .
no doubt she felt shed done enough of her shtick for the hundred pesos and was hoping for more revenue for the day .
the boy couldnt believe anyone would buy her laughable song and dance and he was annoyed when jasmine lingered , murmuring with the old biddy , as they both flicked furtive glances at him .
once theyd cycled back home , the afternoon sun blazing through the drooping trees that sheltered the road from the worst of the heat , jasmine had seemed withdrawn and distant , showing no interest in a romantic interlude .
she hadnt responded well to the boys mockery of the reading as theyd pedaled , taking it as a personal affront to her sacred beliefs .
in retrospect , he could have chosen his few words with more kindness .
baffling bullshit could be misinterpreted , as could superstitious idiocy .
whatever the womans ability to divine the future , one thing changed forever , from that afternoon on .
jasmine and he were never the same , which he directly attributed to the vicious old witchs black predictions .
the old crone had the ability to foretell the future , all right , in that shed initiated a subtle campaign to undermine their relationship , for who knew what reason .
but he learned quickly that the power of superstition could be significant a lesson he would carry forward with him into life .
and he vividly remembered the final card that seemed to have such an effect on the venomous old faker the oldest of the tarot face cards , the reversed king of swords .
the previous months had passed with the topic of how to deal with the romantic fait accompli aired often among the elders in the compound .
it was a constant sticking point between emilio and the ladies .
emilio was of the opinion that if the boy was going to be sampling his precious hothouse flowers bounty , he should plan on getting married , the sooner the better .
the ladies argued against any sort of confrontation , partially because of who he was , as well as mitigating their youth .
neither jasmine nor the boy had been aware of the seething disagreement their trysts caused , not that either of them would have been particularly interested in the older adults opinions .
the arrogance of youth inevitably believed in its supremacy , and the young were typically convinced that the aged had little grasp of how the modern world worked .
emilio and the ladies were terrified that the boy would use jasmine for his pleasure and then break her heart , and so it was with considerable surprise that emilio found the boy to be increasingly moody and dejected as his sixteenth summer wore on .
when emilio confronted him , the confession that the couple had been intimate came as no shock , but his complaint that jasmine had become uninterested in him and had decided that they werent compatible did .
emilio didnt know whether to be angry or relieved , but the boy was suffering , as only those experiencing the tender cuts of young love can , so he redoubled his training and poured on the challenges .
the boy lapped it up , growing more adept each day , and eventually moved beyond his infatuation with jasmine , even as she showed no further appetite for him .
it was as though a switch had been thrown shed swung from being obviously enamored to wanting nothing to do with him , confounding not only the boy , but also the adults .
still , emilio sensed that there was unfinished business between the two , and got the impression from the boy that his passage to other girls would be a bitter one , tainted by jasmines memory .
from the boys perspective , jasmines rejection was an abandonment , serving to remind him how foolish it was to trust others or allow them into your emotional life .
it was during that sixteenth summer that he made the mental resolution to be an island , impenetrable and aloof , using others for his convenience but nothing more .
the pain of the only thing he cared about in his life casting him aside was a fork in the road for him , where one possible future had involved love and trust , and the other led down a path where he was alone , suspicious and always on guard .
for the first time in his life hed opened up and entrusted jasmine with his heart , only to be repaid by her spitting in his face for his trouble .
his rigid training provided the solution never allow anyone to get close , never reveal your true self , and never care .
and so it was that he found a philosophy that was useful , that afforded him some relief in his time of confused pain .
others had no innate value for him beyond what they could do to further his agenda or meet his demands .
they were objects that only existed as minor planets orbiting his solar system , in which he was the sun the giver of life and the destroyer of worlds .
his narcissism wasnt unusual for isolated youths who found every task or challenge laughably easy , but the combination of his violent past and jasmines snubbing of him , transformed him into the very character that the old medium woman had described when articulating the meaning of the reversed king of swords a selfish megalomaniac who would go to any lengths to satisfy his needs , even if it resulted in the destruction of others .
the boy had slim interest in considering the ramifications of his chosen worldview .
his training now consumed all of his free hours as he sought to exceed even the highest bars emilio could conjure as challenges .
hed increased his dojo sessions to five times a week and had quickly mastered most of the offered techniques .
his high school had graduated him early due to his advanced academic performance so he set about studying engineering and architecture in earnest , mainly as a guide to understanding how things operated or were built .
he had a ravenous intellect unlike any his instructors had ever seen a young man who could do or be whatever he wanted .
the future was beyond bright for him and he soon discovered that there were many willing young females who sought his attention and so , in time , jasmine became a distant memory , or so he told himself even as every new conquest brought a reminder of her .
the remainder of his sixteenth year was spent in rigorous pursuit of excellence , whether they were intellectual , physical , or defense related endeavors .
his teen years were a defining period , where he honed his proficiency to a razors edge .
never before had emilio seen someone who could shoot as well or expertly disappear into the woods without a sound and become untraceable , or swim as athletically , or remain inscrutable through any circumstance .
the discipline emilio had sought to instill had yielded incredible dividends .
the boy was almost superhuman in his commitment and self possession .
it was as though providence had blessed him with a surplus of fitness and acuity .
by the time he was due to turn seventeen , emilio was satisfied that his work with the boy was done .
hed made the transition from boy into young man , and the world was now his playground , to do with as he liked .
which made it all the more surprising when he vanished without a trace on the morning of his seventeenth birthday , don miguel dead , and the boy who was like his son gone without a trace .
chapter 4 eleven years ago , veracruz , mexico the navy base in veracruz was expansive , crawling with personnel and equipment .
this was the primary headquarters for the gulf region and was where the specialized training for the countrys equivalent of the seals took place the fuerzas especiales , or special forces .
this elite team of fighters had just been created after a reorganization of the navys marine infantry the marines .
the brass had decided it needed a special response organization that was trained to far higher standards than the already elite marines , and so they formed a group of five hundred specialist commandos , to be trained in explosives , parachuting , military diving , sniping , urban combat and vertical descent .
they would be mexicos ultimate ninja squad , to be used in the most dangerous of circumstances , on the most hazardous of missions .
after the young man had abruptly departed sinaloa hed floated around mexico for a few months , creating the appropriate paperwork so that he could join the navy using a virgin identity .
he quickly impressed his commanding officers with his supernatural weapons capabilities and was placed on the fast track for the new group .
he was the dream candidate for the job young , athletic , a prodigy with guns , smart , fearless , and extremely tough .
if there had ever been a vocation specially made for him , being one of the new navy commandos was it .
even the motto resonated with him fuerza , espiritu , sabiduria .
force , spirit and wisdom .
he had all three in abundance and hed arrived at the perfect place to continue the education hed begun with emilio .
much as hed liked his mentor , it was clear to him that hed learned all he could and needed to go somewhere designed to produce professionals if he was going to progress as he wanted .
hed signed up a few months after his seventeenth birthday , although his new paperwork put his age at eighteen and a half .
that was a necessary artifice , as was his selection of a name so that he could start anew , without any baggage from his past .
the young man was now calling himself raul terenova , which was as good as any other , he supposed .
names were unimportant to him .
they were disposable , as was most everything in his life .
raul excelled in the brutal training conditions , which truth be told were kinder and more relaxed than the ones hed imposed upon himself for years .
but he learned a lot , especially on the explosives side .
there was nothing like the military to proffer the kind of training you just couldnt get in civilian life , no matter what you did .
his goal was to be an expert in every aspect of combat the special forces could teach him , and with his tenacity and discipline , hed quickly climbed to the top of his class and established records .
he became the model for all men who would follow , demanding more from himself than anything his trainers could have mustered .
young raul was far more motivated than any of his classmates to get all he could out of his service years .
he viewed his time with the military as a stepping stone , whereas his peers would go on to be career soldiers .
becoming a naval commando had been an idea hed grown fixated with when he was sixteen , after reading about the services plans to create a group of super soldiers .
he didnt have any burning desire to become a marine but if he was going to excel in the field hed been contemplating , the more skills he had , the more valuable he would be .
none of which he told his recruiting officer .
to the navy , hed presented himself as a fiercely patriotic young man who wanted to escape from a dull existence at home in rural chiapas and don a uniform that would get him instant respect and a life of adventure and action .
during basic training , he had stood out as far above the quality of the other green recruits .
his scores on the written exams had floored the instructors .
here was a candidate who was blisteringly smart , who could swim like a fish , shoot like a marksman , and had the physical prowess of a professional athlete .
there had been no question about moving him ahead of the queue and putting him into the specialized marine training and from there it became obvious that he should be one of the new elite commandos .
today , they were working on specialized sniping long range , which was considered to be anything over a thousand meters , or almost thirty three hundred feet .
at such extreme distances , a variety of elements came into play , including wind strength and direction , humidity , temperature , elevation , and rate of movement if it wasnt a stationary target .
while there were recorded instances of snipers successfully killing from more than twenty four hundred meters , those were considered anomalies .
at sixteen hundred meters , the target was a mile away .
to hit that distance with accuracy was considered virtually impossible for any but an impossibly small group of expert marksmen , although advents like laser rangefinders and computer software that would calculate the various elements had improved the odds .
the days exercise was on targets at a confirmed distance of a thousand meters , or roughly three quarters of a mile .
the rifle they were using for the exercise was an american manufactured barrett m82 , a .50 caliber rifle with an effective range of eighteen hundred meters , although accuracy became iffy after nine hundred to a thousand meters .
sixteen hundred meters was considered acceptable if you were trying to hit a bomb or something larger than a human torso , but there were too many variables that could affect accuracy .
many snipers preferred the smaller .338 caliber rifles for precision , and the official sniper rifle for the marines was the heckler koch psg1 firing a 7.65 millimeter round .
the problem was that the weapons accuracy dropped off at eight hundred meters , so special forces had secured fifteen of the much larger payload barrett rifles as a trial for standardization a substitute for the smaller psg1 .
each sniper cadet had been assigned a coach , who gave the firing order and then received a report from down field .
accuracy had dropped off markedly once the seven hundred meter threshold had been crossed , and there were few who could deliver precise hits at over eight hundred .
what does your nose tell you ?
the coach asked raul .
moderate humidity .
guesstimate on wind speed and direction ?
seven to ten knots , out of the north east , raul replied .
temperature ?
thirty degrees celsius .
were going to do this without the computer .
purely based on your observations .
if youre confident in your observations , adjust your bearings accordingly .
good luck , the coach said , and then stepped back , leaving the young man to himself .
raul concentrated on controlling his breathing , and soon his entire awareness was synthesized into the tiny world within the scope .
he made some minor corrections for his wind speed guesstimate then gently massaged the trigger until the weapon fired , slamming into his shoulder with its considerable recoil .
hed long ago learned never to pull the trigger , as it could throw off accuracy .
a deliberate squeeze was best .
the radio crackled and the report came back .
a bulls eye .
good shooting .
they repeated the exercise for ten shots , all of which landed within a ten inch grouping .
i think were done here , young man .
that was impressive shooting .
raul looked up at the coach .
he was emboldened by his success , and wanted to try for a personal best .
he got along well with the man , so he floated his idea .
why dont we try it at fifteen hundred meters ?
just to make it interesting ?
raul suggested .
the coach looked at him like he was crazy .
pretty cocky , huh ?
thats an impossible range with that weapon and that ammo , not to mention that scope .
you want to put money on it ?
the coach asked .
fifteen hundred meters was just under a mile away , and was near the absolute maximum of the rifles range for a human sized target .
two hundred pesos says i nail it three out of five .
although i agree that this ammo is crap for that distance .
id prefer to load it myself for better consistency , but hey , raul said .
fine .
but three misses , we go home and im two hundred richer .
the coach got on the radio and issued the instructions to the man downrange , who obligingly moved the target to the farthest point on the field before taking cover .
its your funeral .
fire when ready , the coach said .
raul took his time , made further adjustments to the scope , then repeated his meditation process where he became one with the weapon .
the discharge almost startled him , so focused was his concentration .
there was no need to wait for the radio to report .
he knew what it would say .
bulls eye , twenty centimeters off center , the radio crackled .
to the right , or the left ?
or low or high ?
tell him to be specific , would you ?
raul groused .
wide eyed , the coach studied raul like he was from another planet , then posed the question .
the response came back .
to the right .
thats what i thought hed say .
winds died down a hair in the last thirty seconds .
tell him to clear , raul said .
once he got the go ahead , he repeated the impossible shot .
four more times .
all shots grouped with under a foot of variance .
the coach gladly handed over the two hundred pesos for the single most astounding display of marksmanship hed ever witnessed .
youre a fucking monster , you know that ?
thats superhuman voodoo shit right there .
ive never seen anything like it , and ive been teaching for over ten years .
before that , i was one of the top three marksmen in mexico , the coach acceded , studying him with a kind of wonder .
those that can , do both men laughed together , in spite of a twenty five year age difference .
raul would never again shoot with that accuracy at that distance , preferring to limit his performance to more average expectations .
it wouldnt do to show off , or to develop too much of a reputation .
better to have had a one in a million day and then graduate in the top third of the class than at the top .
he remembered emilios sage counsel from when he was just a sprout .
never show too much of your hand .
to give your enemies information is to make a gift .
and friends can become enemies .
so know how good you are and then take private pleasure in that accomplishment .
becoming celebrated makes you a target .
better to be in the middle of the herd when the hunters come than at the head .
into the evening , raul enjoyed his place in the spotlight amongst his peers , as news of his exploit circulated .
as much as he enjoyed the adulation , a part of him knew that the hubris that came from being the best was a fickle charm , so he resolved to enjoy it for now , because it would be the last time he allowed others to get a glimpse of what he could actually do .
information was power , and allowing , no , inviting others to understand his capabilities was foolhardy .
his goal was to drain what experience he could from the service and then slip away like a ghost .
it would serve no useful purpose to be noticed any more than he already had been .
from that point on he would adopt a lower profile and continue to accumulate the pearls of experience until his work there was done .
he calculated that another three months of training and perhaps six months in the field would be sufficient , making for a total of a year and a half of his life devoted to the pursuit of excellence with mexicos finest .
that night , as he lay his head upon his bunk , he began a silent mental countdown .
to when he could begin his new , new life .
patience , he told himself , was a virtue that would pay enormous dividends it became his bedtime mantra .
he needed to maximize his learning while he was still in school .
thats how he viewed his life to the point hed arrived at it was his education .
the time would soon come when the pupil proved himself to be the master , but for now , he had lessons to absorb .
he still wanted to learn special operations parachuting not jumping out of planes and controlling his descent , but rather precision guiding his drop to within a meter of his target point , from both high altitude and low , which required different skills .
and he still needed more hours of scuba time , as well as some orientation on flying planes and helicopters .
the latter two werent on the curriculum , but he was lobbying to get them added .
you could never know too much .
with visions of his future cascading through his awareness , he slowly drifted off to sleep , his days toil finally at an end .
chapter 5 ten a half years ago , veracruz , mexico the battered , rusting hull of the freighter ground against the old tires fastened to the concrete dock at one of the more remote cargo offloading piers on veracruz harbor .
flying a panamanian flag , caruso was at least forty years old , and had made the long trip from south america countless times .
the dark green paint on her dented steel sides bubbled at the rivets from underlying rust .
she looked to be on her last legs , as did many of the freighters that made their way into the busy deep water port .
the old ship was manifested as delivering coffee and bananas from colombia , which was largely true , although the money making haul was the ten tons of cocaine stashed in the specially constructed compartments in her lower hold , which to cursory inspection appeared to be the floor of the cargo area inside the hull .
even if a nosy customs inspector had cared to pry open one of the scarred hatches , all he would have found was what appeared to be the slimy metal lining of the waterlogged bilge .
it was an ingenious design the modifications had taken place at a discreet shipyard in colon , panama while other refits were being attended to .
a veteran of the ongoing , frequent trade between south america and mexico , caruso was just one of thousands of vessels that offloaded cargo each year in veracruz , the principal importation hub for eastern mexico .
under normal circumstances she would have rendezvoused with a commercial fishing boat out in the gulf of mexico to transfer her illicit wares , well away from prying eyes , but the shrimper that had been the scheduled drop off had experienced engine problems eighty miles en route , so the hook up had been cancelled .
that had left the captain with two choices toss ten tons of cocaine overboard and lose the shipment and his tidy slice of the profits , or hope that the receiving group could arrange for an alternative offloading plan while the ship was laid over in veracruz for two days .
worst case , she could steam out , supposedly empty , on her way back to colombia for more fruit and java , and meet with another boat but every minute caruso sat in the harbor she was in jeopardy .
particularly tonight , when la familia , a rival splinter faction of the gulf cartel , had decided to use the mexican marines as a vehicle to cause their competitors grief , by tipping law enforcement off to the shipment .
it was not unusual for the cartels to exchange information with the military or the police to create problems for their enemies most of the drug seizures that took place did so because of the constant infighting and jockeying for advantage that was a routine aspect of the trade .
it was far more ergonomic to use the militarys muscle instead of your own , and if the rivals got into a firefight in the process , so much the better .
the marines had long been considered the only incorruptible branch of the military .
the army was notoriously riddled with rot but the marines , for whatever reason , couldnt be bought off , and so were the most feared of the law enforcement branches .
in mexico , the army and navy worked alongside the police and federales for internal security , which included battling the drug cartels , especially since the recent reorganization into more specialized groups .
it hadnt been broadly publicized , but since 2000 , when vincente fox became president of mexico , the country had been embroiled in a de facto civil war , with the cartels having far greater resources than the army and navy .
the total budget for the army was less than a percent of gdp , which put it at considerably under a billion dollars .
contrast that to the over fifty billion dollars per year in wholesale value of cocaine that moved through the cartels .
at an eighty to ninety percent margin , that left the narcotraficantes with vastly greater resources than the army .
since the mexicans had taken over cocaine trafficking for the colombians , and begun manufacturing methamphetamines in earnest , the money had gotten crazy .
mexico found itself in much the same situation colombia had faced in the 1980s and 1990s , when it was routine for judges , police chiefs and army generals to be executed en masse by the colombian cartels , or rather their armed enforcers the myriad purportedly revolutionary groups that controlled half the country and increasingly acted as private armies for the drug lords .
the lions share of the profits had shifted from colombia to mexico as colombia contented itself with the far lower risk and less violent business of production , leaving the transport and distribution to their better positioned mexican associates .
the profits in colombia were still significant , with one to two hundred percent markup to the mexicans , but the margin in trafficking internationally was five to tenfold .
a kilo of cocaine that cost the mexicans twenty five hundred to three thousand dollars in colombia would fetch twenty five thousand a kilo wholesale across the u.s. border , and that was usually significantly cut with buffering agents in order to dilute the nearly pure cocaine , thereby increasing the apparent quantity once repackaged for the states so in actuality it was more like an effective thirty to thirty five thousand sale price for that original kilo by the end of the day .
the incredible margins were a direct function of the illegality of the substances in the target market the united states .
as with alcohol margins during the ill fated experiment of prohibition in the 1930s , criminalization of drugs turned what would have been a five percent profit business into a thousand or more percent trade , which created windfall profits for everyone in the supply chain and also created a situation where every aspect was worth killing for .
there were no open gun battles over cigarette or alcohol profits because once a substance was legal , the efficiencies of the distribution chains kicked in and it became a boring commercial enterprise .
but keeping the substances illegal , especially since they were in huge demand , caused profits to go through the roof .
and so it was that a group of provincial , unsophisticated mexican farmers became the most powerful narcotics trafficking empires in the world , commanding the sorts of budgets that were the envy of many medium sized countries .
mexico bore the brunt of the violence that ensued from the power struggles , principally because it was the geographic gateway to the largest market for drugs in the world the united states .
the harbor was quiet at three a.m. , and the wharf area where caruso was tethered was deserted , save for two men smoking cigarettes on the concrete pier , and an uninterested security guard at the massive docks entry point , where it connected to land .
the marines had taken position in the surrounding buildings , having been told that there was a complement of at least a dozen heavily armed men on board , guarding against any incursions to steal their precious cargo .
the leader of the commando team made a series of hand signals , and the men fanned out , while raul set up his rifle tripod and adjusted his scope .
range was six hundred meters at the closest point , which would be a cakewalk for him were it not for the twenty knot gusting breeze hed need to factor in .
this was his first active operation since graduating from the special forces course so he felt a tingle of anticipation before finally testing his skills in a real world environment .
shooting at paper targets or silhouettes on a range was one thing , but being in the thick of it with enemies who were shooting back was quite another .
this operation would be a tricky one , in that the commander didnt want to get into a gun battle if he didnt have to .
his first plan was to use subterfuge and approach the vessel with several plain clothed men under his command , subdue the two lookouts with stun guns , and then move the bulk of the commandos swiftly down the dock to the gangplank , boarding the old scow before anyone knew what had happened .
raul had questioned the logic involved but didnt say anything .
if it had been his operation he would have approached with a half dozen well armed divers from the waterside , and used lines to climb up the side of the ship , or alternatively , taken out the two smoking sentries from the harbor end of the dock , firing from the waterline and killing them instantly before moving his squad onto the pier from the water , where nobody would be expecting any attack .
if he was one of the smugglers on the ship , and the marines intelligence on the number of armed men was correct , he would have had at least two lookouts , one with a night vision scope , surveying the dock for the slightest hint of trouble .
if there was going to be a gun battle , youd want to pick the distance at which you engaged wisely , in order to be able to hold off any assailants while you made an escape .
hed have had a high speed tender secured to the ships stern as a get away contingency , and would also have had a man watching the water approach , just in case .
because you never , ever really knew you had to expect the unexpected .
but it wasnt his place to second guess his superiors and he was interested to see how the exercise would play out .
he gave the marines a less than twenty percent chance of taking the ship without a battle , which meant that hed see some real action .
finally .
albeit from a distance but , in truth , that was preferred .
hed long ago concluded that it was far safer to be sniping from afar than to be a hero rushing into a hail of slugs .
leave that to his peers .
hed pick off his targets with surgical precision before they knew what hit them .
two large norwegian wharf rats scurried down the dock , away from the ship and the two smoking men .
these were big rodents their bodies were a good eighteen inches long , with tails to match scavengers the size of small dogs .
the pier area was infested with them and the city had long ago given up on trying to bring the population under control .
poison had been only moderately effective , and one genius had the idea of releasing a horde of hungry felines which had resulted in a feral cat infestation in addition to the rats , which were large enough to go ten rounds with a cat without breaking a sweat .
slicks of oil floated on the surface of the water from leaking bilges the port had a pervasive odor of decay and long dead fish , and the particular petroleum stink common to industrial waterfronts the world over .
raul studied the battered ships bridge for signs of life , scanning slowly over the superstructure and taking his time at each of the helms reinforced windows .
those would pose a problem , as theyd be at least inch thick glass , designed to withstand the pressure of the massive waves that could surge over the four hundred feet of bow and ship and slam into the tower .
he knew from his reading that oceangoing vessels were designed to withstand seas up to sixty feet in height , the theory being that waves didnt get any larger than that .
of course , the hundred foot rogue waves that had been recorded with some regularity were ignored by the industry because if you built ships that could survive those , they would be too expensive .
so everyone pretended that sixty was the maximum , and when hundreds of boats were lost in any given period , it was shoulder shrugs and profit statements that everyone focused on .
his night vision scope illuminated the bridge in an eerie green .
there were two armed sentries visible on the superstructure , one outside on the bridge walkway , and the other inside .
he could just make out the gleam of binoculars from the interior , so in rauls opinion the chances of the commanders scheme working had diminished to less than zero .
he was glad it wasnt his ass on the line for this one .
perhaps , instead of the sea approach , raul might have had a flight of four to six men parachute in , touching down on the rear of the ship , taking out the sentries as they descended .
virtually anything other than a direct assault down the dock .
no wonder the military casualties in the drug wars were so high .
with operational plans that amounted to brandishing a saber and screaming , charge !
there could be little expectation of anything but a blood bath .
he didnt envy his fellow commandos their duty tonight .
there was no way this would go well .
he adjusted his scope to compensate for the stiffening wind , and calculate the distance with his laser rangefinder .
six hundred seventy four meters .
like shooting fish in a barrel , he thought , allowing himself the private luxury of a small smile .
his face , like those of his fellow commandos , was blacked out with camouflage paint so as to avoid giving off any shine , lending his profile an evil glint akin to that of an escaped demon .
the smile was anything but reassuring .
the commander gave the signal and the two undercover men exited the building , one holding a bottle of mescal in his hand and talking loudly in an inebriated slur .
given that there was no way they wouldnt be spotted , the bright idea was that they were to be friendly , drunken dock workers , and once the two smoking guards were dispatched , they would pretend to engage in a scuffle and some security guards would come running to break up the fight .
when there were six men in total by the gangplank theyd breach the ship , and more would pour out of the building and reinforce them from there .
in addition to the stun guns , the men on the dock would be equipped with grenades and machine pistols , as would the bogus security guards , so the presumption was that they could take the ship by surprise and keep the foe engaged until the main body of commandos made it down the dock .
they had two vehicles waiting to race out , filled with armed men who could be at the gangplank in fifteen seconds from the time the signal was given .
it seemed like suicide to raul , but it wasnt his job to craft a better plan .
he was only there to shoot , which he was now perfectly positioned to do .
this may have been his first assault but he had enough common sense to understand that even when the commandos prevailed , and they would prevail eventually due to vastly larger numbers , the cost in human life would be high on both sides , whereas a surgical strike could have accomplished much the same result with minimal special forces casualties .
it was inefficient , which offended his sense of symmetry more than anything .
he watched as the two men staggered their way down the pier and then returned his full attention to the bridge .
the pair of undercover operatives , by the time they made it to the two sentries , would be out of sight of the bridge due to the angle of the hull .
unless of course , the two guards moved , in which case the plan would be a disaster , or alternatively , would need to be aborted .
walking headfirst into a killing zone was generally bad strategy anywhere in the world , not just in mexico , and he couldnt see the commander barreling forward if the plan was doomed to failure .
at least he hoped not .
the sentry on the exterior of the bridge was carrying a machine pistol of some sort it looked like an uzi to raul .
that meant limited useful range and accuracy .
the uzi was an antiquated design with an effective range of two hundred meters , which was fine for typical close quarter urban combat , but lousy for applications requiring accuracy at a distance .
a better and more popular choice as far as raul was concerned was the kalashnikov akm , the modernized version of the venerated ak 47 , which had double the effective range in single fire mode , or at least three hundred meters when fired full auto or probably the best weapon , and his personal favorite for dependability and accuracy in a mid range assault rifle , the american built m4 .
its five hundred meter effective range and extremely high muzzle velocity made it the ideal choice for assault applications , which more than compensated for its relatively small slug size .
hed fired all three with emilio for years and could disassemble and reassemble any of them in a matter of seconds , so he knew whereof he spoke .
their luck wasnt going well so far .
the two smoking sentries on the dock moved toward the men , so any engagement would take place in plain sight of the bridge .
that would mean a full blown firefight with no cover , likely with a very high toll on the special forces side .
he exhaled , stilling his mind in preparation for the imminent attack , and zeroed the barrett m82 sniper rifle in on the bridge sentrys upper torso .
the .50 caliber m1022 slug would tear a hole through him the size of a baseball at that range so there was no question in his mind that it would only take a single trigger pull to dispatch him .
it would be a few more seconds before the shit hit the fan so he slid two more full magazines next to the rifle , where he could quickly change them out once he was empty .
the man in the bridge was still his biggest concern .
he made a mental note to always carry one magazine of full jacketed armor piercing rounds in case he needed to slice through an inch of metal or reinforced glass .
it was show time .
he fixed the bridge target in the crosshairs and waited for instruction .
the commander was watching the approach and not liking what he saw .
he , like raul , understood that if the bridge sentries werent caught unawares , the assault would become a slaughterhouse , with his men taking heavy casualties .
after struggling with an internal debate , the commander murmured into the com system .
one of the two men on the dock had an earpiece , and upon hearing the commanders instructions , grabbed his friend and turned him around , as if only now noticing the two smoking men cautiously approaching them .
the mission had been aborted .
shit , the commander hissed , and began pacing , mulling over his choices .
now theyd probably have to just pull up in armored vehicles and do this the hard way , shooting it out with no element of surprise .
raul bit his tongue , but then decided to advance his idea , purely in the interests of keeping his role in the assault interesting and getting some more practical experience .
taking out a single sentry from almost a thousand meters wasnt really much of a challenge .
it was a single shot .
maybe two , if they would send someone to find some armor piercing rounds .
sir .
might i have a word ?
raul asked .
the commander regarded him with surprise .
raul was one of his best men , but he never spoke .
he was a loner , with no close relationships within the corps .
this isnt a great moment .
yes , sir .
i know , sir .
i just had an observation that came to me as i was watching the target that may be of some use to you , sir , raul explained , sucking up his pride and taking the expected supplicant tone .
very well .
make it quick , the commander barked .
we need to coordinate a frontal assault before this goes on much longer .
permission to approach , sir ?
get on with it .
raul moved to the commanders side , and spoke in a low , calm tone , explaining his ideas and arguing for an amphibian assault .
the commander listened carefully , and then cut him off after forty five seconds .
that would require far more stealth and luck than weve had tonight .
its a good strategy , and i appreciate your sharing it with me , but i dont think we can afford to waste two more hours preparing it .
no , i think well do a good old fashioned frontal assault and take our punches .
in the end , wed have to do one anyway if your plan failed , so my call is to just cut to the chase , the commander declared , summarily dismissing the idea .
raul considered arguing the point and then decided that he didnt care that much .
hed still get to shoot a couple of bad guys , at least , and what did he care in the end if half the squad got mowed down ?
yes , sir .
thank you for hearing me out , sir .
if were going to do a frontal , could i please get a magazine of armor piercing rounds ?
theyll come in handy to take out the gunman inside the bridge , raul requested .
the commander nodded and called on the com to one of the team members waiting in the next building .
twenty minutes .
youll have em .
well move in thirty .
the commander spun around and began issuing orders in preparation for a brute force assault .
theyd need a couple of armored personnel carriers enough to carry forty men .
he ordered up two unimog armored trucks and two btr 70 armored carriers eight wheeled vehicles that could accommodate seven commandos each , along with a three man crew to operate the turret mounted 14.5 mm heavy machine gun and smaller 7.62 mm machine gun .
the fallback plan was much more straightforward .
drive up to the ship .
deploy men if no firing takes place and seize the ship .
if the sentries or crew decided to shoot it out , blast away at everything in sight and shoot their way through the ship until the crew either surrendered , or was dead .
it was inelegant and would result in a lot of bullets flying but it had the benefit of simplicity .
twenty five minutes later , a young commando approached raul and handed him a magazine with five rounds of armor piercing .50 caliber bullets , apologizing that they couldnt find any more at such short notice .
raul thanked him , and emptied half of one of the spare magazines , counting out five shells and replacing them with the five armor piercing rounds .
he ejected the current bullet in the rifle and chambered one of the new armor piercing cartridges , then returned to watching the sentries through his night vision scope .
the commander checked his watch , and at precisely three forty a.m. ordered the assault , after which everything happened quickly .
the two gray btr 70s , which resembled small tanks more than anything else , rumbled around the corner and out onto the pier , followed by the two hulking trucks .
the sentries on the dock froze , staring in numb disbelief at the apparition , and then hurriedly scuttled up the gangplank and disappeared up into the ship .
one mans head reappeared for a few seconds and then the gangplank collapsed onto the concrete pier below .
the crash was almost immediately followed by the steel watertight door slamming shut with a boom .
as it was barred from within , the grinding of the cogs was audible halfway down the dock , even over the baritone growl of the vehicles .
it was going to be considerably harder to take the freighter now because the traffickers were forewarned .
the easy access to the ship from the gangplank was gone and the commandos on the dock would be in a siege situation against a ship whose hull rose easily four stories above the pier , with no obvious entry point available .
the commander watched in a kind of frozen frustration , and then the shooting started gunmen emerged from the interior of the ship , moved to the edge of the hull and began firing from behind the protection of the heavy steel from which the hardy old vessel was built .
raul took in the situation for a few moments , waiting for the right instant , and squeezed the trigger .
the guns boom was deafening .
ears ringing , he watched with satisfaction as both the sentry standing outside the bridge and the man inside collapsed .
hed timed it so that he fired when the outside man was directly in front of the man inside the bridge , effectively killing two birds with one armor piercing stone .
no reason to waste his precious ammo , after all .
he swiveled his attention to the hull , where he could just make out heads popping up here and there , like a nocturnal version of whack a mole at a fairground stall .
a man wearing a baseball cap leaned over the railing and fired his weapon at the vehicles below .
raul caressed the trigger again and watched as the shooters head vaporized .
moving down the line , he waited for an opening and took out another .
he was now four down with three shells , which he felt was a fair contribution to the ensuing train wreck of an operation .
raul peered through the scope , trying to find any other obvious targets , but the gunmen along the side of the ship had figured out there was a sniper at work , and had retreated into the superstructure , barring the watertight deck entry door in the process .
the gun turrets on the btr 70s opened up with their armor piercing rounds , but quickly discovered that their shells , which could easily penetrate up to a one and a half inch steel plate , were just denting the massive hull , which had been fashioned from considerably thicker material .
that left the commandos and the traffickers in a classic mexican standoff .
shooting from the ship had stopped other than from a lone gunman who hadnt made it inside in time , but was behind the bulk of the bridges tower and so out of rauls line of sight .
firing from the two btr 70s had also stopped , though the entire waterfront area still resonated with receding echoes of gunfire .
the commander barked orders into the radio and the men emptied from the personnel carriers and took up position to mount an assault .
the men below flung three grappling hooks affixed to black nylon rope over the hulls edge .
the four pronged hooks all found a purchase .
the problem was that any men on the ropes who got caught in the fire from the remaining gunman were dead meat , so nobody wanted to be the first to climb four stories up onto the deck .
raul decided to shift his position and moved down the row of warehouse windows until he was more symmetrically placed and could see down the entire length of the ship .
he set his rifle tripod down , careful not to jar the weapon , and resumed peering through the scope .
there , at the farthest end of the ship , right near the stern , was the gunman , taking cover below the three foot high lip of the boats deck edge .
raul calculated the distance and added an additional forty yards and adjusted accordingly , then waited for the mans head to pop back up .
it was just a matter of time , he figured correctly , as it turned out and his vigilance was rewarded by the mans arms and head coming into view as he prepared to empty his weapon at the commandos below .
raul took his shot , and the mans head dissolved in a bloody spray of fragments .
the deck was now empty , although it would still be ugly fighting through the ship .
not his problem .
the commander gave the squad the all clear signal , and within seconds commandos were moving swiftly up the ropes to the ship above .
raul had shifted his attention to the bridge windows again , figuring it would just be a matter of time until some bright lad figured out that he could shoot from the portholes that stretched another four stories above the ships deck , picking off soldiers as they climbed over the rail .
sure enough , one of the glass hatches on the side opened , and a gun barrel poked out .
he waited patiently because the angle of the shooters barrel wouldnt allow him to hit the deck , and sure enough , more of the weapon slowly emerged from the window until raul also saw the arm that was holding it .
the first commandos were only a few feet from the edge so he only had a second before theyd be exposed to the gunman .
raul fired , and the assault rifle tumbled harmlessly to the deck below , taking three quarters of the mans still attached arm with it .
that would give the rest inside something to think about .
from there on out it was a textbook incursion .
they had to use explosives to blow the doors open , and for fifteen minutes , bursts of gunfire echoed throughout the boats hull .
eventually the commander got an all clear call from the men inside , and a status report .
theyd taken out six hostiles , no survivors , and lost nine men in the process .
raul listened to the recitation impassively , his face betraying nothing .
the commander glanced at him as he heard the casualty assessment , but raul was busy packing up his gear , his work for the night finished .
the commander approached him and stopped a few feet away , studying the silent sniper as he finished stowing his weapon into a long padded case .
great shooting .
you saved a lot of lives tonight , the commander said .
raul bit his tongue , didnt blurt out his natural reaction , which was that if hed been allowed to lead an amphibian team they would have likely lost only a few men , if any , thanks to the element of surprise , and that the commander had killed those commandos with his lack of flair and imagination just as surely as if hed pulled the trigger himself .
instead , he nodded and stood , shouldering the rifle case and hoisting his bag .
thank you , sir .
i had some lucky shots tonight .
we were all fortunate .
there being nothing more to say , he saluted with his free hand before descending the stairs to join the remainder of his team .
it would be a long stretch of duty as the bodies were recovered and the drugs inventoried and he wanted to get out of the commanders sight before his contempt for the man leaked through his veneer .
it wasnt worth it .
most of the world was composed of idiots the commander was simply one dolt of many , and nothing raul said or did would change things .
it was that night , on his first live operation , that he realized hed probably already learned everything he was going to from the military .
the time had already come , after little over a year in the service , to reconsider his options .
chapter 6 ten years ago , sinaloa , mexico eighteen months after joining the marines , raul disappeared without a trace , leaving nothing behind to be remembered by except his assumed name , which hed quickly grown to despise .
hed participated in seven more operations after his first one , and with each mission he became more convinced that his talents were being wasted and he wasnt progressing any further .
to make matters worse , he witnessed countless acts of bumbling bureaucracy by the ranking officers , costing the men under their command casualties for no good reason .
if anything had ever convinced him that he wouldnt do well working for someone else , his half year of active duty after completing his boot camp and all the specialized training had done the trick .
when he walked off the base for the last time , ostensibly on two days leave to go visit his fictional family in chiapas , it was with an audible sigh of relief .
raul had saved almost all of his meager pay and still had a few thousand dollars from the money hed left home with , after selling his weapons to convert his assets into cash .
his identity papers had cost him six hundred dollars in mexico city , and hed done some odd jobs before joining the navy , but he would need to put the next part of his grand plan into operation fairly soon if he was going to avoid having to work as a day laborer .
fortunately , the cartels hed been battling were generous employers , able to pay far more than the navy , so he could pretty much choose which cartel he wanted to approach as an ex marine theyd be eager to have him as part of their enforcement team .
although he had different ideas about how he could be of service to them .
he was now three months shy of his nineteenth birthday and free to do as he pleased .
yet there was some unfinished business he needed to attend to back in sinaloa before he moved on to the next phase of his life .
his departure had stuck in his craw , and he felt a pull to return while hed told himself that he was completely over jasmine , the truth was that a part of him had always assumed that her rejection had been some sort of youthful power play , and that shed get over it and see reason in time .
whether or not that was deluded wishful thinking , he needed to put it behind him once and for all , and with time on his hands and a more mature perspective , he decided to return to his old haunts and see for himself how things now sat .
hed learned to trust his judgment on these things , so he hopped on a bus and began the long trip from veracruz to culiacan .
wearing the uniform of a special forces commando , he was afforded privilege by the bus company so thankfully it cost him almost nothing to cross the nation .
two days after hed left his naval career behind , he descended the stairs in culiacan , blinking into the bright sunlight of an early spring day .
after forty two hours cramped on buses , eating whatever junk he could get at the irregular stops , his first order of business was to have a decent meal .
he set off in search of a restaurant that had been his favorite , back in the day .
outside the terminal , he hailed a cab , reciting the address from memory to the driver as he slid into the back seat .
the young man had changed since hed last been in town , as had the city itself , growing by leaps and bounds .
his carefully trimmed goatee and closely cropped military haircut ensured nobody would recognize him , which wasnt much of an issue considering his long absence .
hed developed into a hardened combat veteran since leaving as a teen boy and his bearing and additional muscle weight filled out his uniform , lending him a formidable presence .
the boy had left and had returned a man .
the taxi arrived at the restaurant , la chuparrosa enamorada , nestled on the banks of the canal rosales .
the young man paid the driver and stepped out onto the pavement , hoisting his duffle as he studied the restaurant faade .
it was a tuesday , so the breakfast business was thin , which wouldnt have been the case had it been the weekend .
the place typically had a standing room crowd on saturdays and sundays , due to the generous portions of mouthwatering food and the soothing waterside ambiance .
he had been there a few times with emilio on special occasions and it was one of the things that had been on his mind since boarding the bus in veracruz .
when he entered the large dining room , his boots thumping on the saltillo tile floor , the waitress approached and invited him to an outdoor table overlooking the water .
after a cursory glance at the familiar menu , he ordered a glass of orange juice and a plate of chicken chilaquiles in red sauce a local favorite and one of the restaurants signature dishes .
while he waited for his food to come he thought about his next move , glancing around absently as he remarked to himself on how little things had changed there in the last twenty months .
in this sleepy area , things seemed to always remain the same , even as the city grew at an unprecedented rate .
the waitress arrived with a heaping platter of breakfast , and as he tucked in he ran down his mental list .
the first thing he would need to do was secure reliable transportation .
taxis werent going to be an option for what he had in mind , so hed need to get some sort of conveyance sooner rather than later .
with his bankroll being as thin as it was , that meant stealing something , or probably several somethings , depending on how far he decided to travel .
he munched on his food , savoring the rich , spicy sauce , and cleaned his plate as efficiently as a dishwasher would .
stuffed , he paid the bill and strolled out onto the rural road , scanning the surroundings for something he could liberate opportunistically .
it took him half an hour to spot a suitable vehicle that was easy enough to break into and hotwire , but he eventually found a thirty year old chevrolet truck with a broken wind wing .
within seconds , he was in the cab , scanning the surrounding street to ensure that he hadnt been detected .
it took him ten seconds to find the ignition wires and soon he was meandering down the familiar road that led to don miguels estate .
the landscape was still verdant and wild , nature seemingly impatient to encroach on the slim progress man had introduced .
when he was a quarter mile from the turnoff to the ranch , he pulled the old truck onto a dirt track that led into the wilds and parked where it couldnt be seen from the road .
he had no idea what he would find at the hacienda when he made it to the estate , but hed learned to be cautious about everything and considered it best to err on the side of prudence .
he moved stealthily through the woods until he found one of the myriad game trails that ran through the immense tract of don miguels property , and soon was jogging along as he had in the old days .
it was cool in february so he barely broke a sweat as he moved effortlessly through the foliage .
before long , he was in the cluster of trees that ran along the side of the property , near the horse barn where hed so long ago been set to move hay as the commencement of his training .
he paused momentarily , ears straining for any hint of habitation , but he detected nothing .
the main house was deserted , with none of the security men that were everywhere when hed been living there .
no matter he hadnt come for anything in the house .
he wanted to see his mentor , emilio , and of course , his daughter .
for all his efforts jasmine had survived in the place shed carved out of his psyche , and he wanted to bring closure to a door that bulged , and threatened to burst open in his recurring dreams .
the young man continued along the perimeter and down the track until he reached the caretakers house that reposed several hundred yards into the woods .
he knew that trail like hed been on it only yesterday , the loosely placed flagstone that served as a driveway all too familiar under his feet .
surprisingly , he felt a buzz of anxiety in the pit of his stomach as he neared the front door an altogether alien sensation for him .
there , sitting as it always had , was the modest colonial home , deliberately styled in a rustic , sponge painted manner to mirror the design sensibility of the larger main house , but absent the more flamboyant frills .
pausing on the front porch , he registered that there was something different about the home than the last time hed seen it , almost two years ago .
it seemed quiet , as though nobody was living there much like the main estate had appeared from a distance .
shaking off the sense of foreboding , he knocked on the door , and when he heard nothing from inside , he walked around the side to where emilio parked his big navy blue ford lobo crew cab truck .
there it sat , unchanged , next to the small chevy econo box emilio had bought for jasmine with his bonuses from don miguel .
he moved back onto the porch , and knocked again .
emilio .
jasmine .
please .
open the door .
its meim back he yelled .
from inside , he heard a faint rustling , and then jasmines distinctive voice .
go away .
theres nothing for you here .
jasmine .
please .
open the door .
i need to talk to your father .
its important , he tried again .
hes dead .
everyones dead .
don miguel , my father , his sister and his mother .
theres only me left now , and i dont want to see you .
please .
just leave .
go now , and stay away , jasmine warned .
dead ?
how ?
how is that possible ?
whats happened since i left ?
tell me , jasmine .
please .
just open the door .
i dont want to have this conversation through a slab of wood .
i just travelled over a thousand miles to see youplease , jasmine .
im begging you .
i need to see you .
no you dont .
you left without a word to anyone , and now death has come to the valley , and its only me left alive and you .
do yourself a favor , and leave now , while you can , jasmine implored him .
if you dont open the door , ill break in .
you know i can find a way .
jasmine , please .
this has gone on long enough .
open the damned door so we can speak like adults .
i need to know what happenedand i need your help , he finished , hoping the appeal would stir something in her .
he could understand that she might not want to see him , but there were too many unanswered questions for him to take no for an answer .
after a seemingly eternal pause , the lock rattled and the door creaked open .
it was dark in the small living room , all the drapes pulled , he saw as jasmine padded in bare feet back to the chair in front of the television and sat .
she was wearing a nightgown even though it was close to noon .
it was so dim that he could hardly make her out .
can we turn on a light or open a window ?
i cant see my own hand in front of me .
iim comfortable with it like this .
this is my house now , so i keep it the way i like .
if you have a problem with it , leave , jasmine advised in a monotone .
what the hell was going on here ?
even after two years , people didnt change that much .
what had happened ?
jasmine .
no problem .
you want it dark , i like it dark .
can we start over ?
tell me what happened to your father , emilio .
please .
start at the beginning .
i havent had any news since i left .
i see you have a uniform .
marines .
is that what happened to you ?
you ran away and joined the navy ?
thats classic .
a total clich , she exclaimed with a bitter laugh .
its a little more complicated than that .
but tell me about your father .
jasmine let out a long sigh , and sank further into the large , padded reclining chair one of emilios few luxuries a place he could relax at the end of a long , hard day and watch some television in peace .
when you left , you got out just in time .
someone executed don miguel , as well as one of his lieutenants , either that same day or the day after .
i dont really remember now , so much happened so quickly .
anyway , nobody knew what to do , and it was chaos here .
but word traveled fast , because before don miguel was in the ground , his rivals where fighting over how his empire would be divided up .
it quickly escalated into the usual blood feud , and soon culiacans streets were littered with the dead , jasmine explained .
only the young man knew what had transpired between himself and don miguel before leaving the state the event hadnt been witnessed by anyone , and nobody had any reason to suspect the quiet boy who was like his son .
after the drug lord had disappeared , in the chaos that followed no one had much cared what had happened to the boy .
and your father ?
one night , several trucks showed up at the house , and we heard gunfire .
the main contender for the dons position , armand altamar , had decided to eliminate anyone who was still loyal to the don , in a bid to seal his position as the new jefe for this region .
he executed the few remaining staff at the houseand then he came for us .
my father had several guns and he tried to defend us , and even killed three of altamars henchmen , but in the end it was for nothing .
there were too many of them , and they shot him to death , out in front of the porchlike a dog .
he died there for no reason other than for loyalty to his boss altamar had no reason to kill him , but he did anyway , without as much thought as stepping on an ant .
papahe wasnt even in the business .
he just ran the horses , and raised you , her voice trailed off .
jasmine , im so sorry .
ii dont know what to say theres nothing to say .
after killing him , they broke down the door , dragged my grandmother and auntie outside and shot them in the head .
good god .
ithank god you escaped but i didnt , dont you see ?
i tried to shoot them but i was shaking too much , and my first shot missed .
so then they came for meand the restis history , she said flatly .
what happened , jasmine .
you can tell me .
he didnt know how to react to the horrible story and was afraid to hear the rest but he couldnt help himself .
what happened ?
what happened ?
with nobody here to protect me , with you gone and my family killed ?
they took turns raping me , is what happened over and over , for half the night .
i passed out , and when i came to , they were raping me more .
it went on for hours .
ijasmine .
i know nothing i can say or do will make anything better .
but ill find these men and punish them for what they did to you .
theyll pay , with interest added .
just go .
i dont want your help .
my life is over before it had a chance to really begin .
its not your fault but i dont want to see you ever again .
you remind me of beforewhen i had hope jasmine , listen to me .
theres still hope .
i know what happened was horrible and will stay with you forever but theres always hope .
always .
ill make this right , or at least avenge your family and you , the young man promised .
no you wont .
and no , theres no hope .
trust me .
none .
theres always hope , jasmine youre an idiot .
for you , maybe there is , but not for me .
i didnt finish the story .
you didnt let me .
after they were done with me , every orifice brutalized and bleeding , the leader , altamar , went into the barn and got some of the acid they used on the glass tiles in the fountain to remove the calcium deposits , as i remember .
theyd always wear gloves , and mix it fifty parts water to one part acid .
it was the only thing that would remove the buildup .
altamar didnt wear gloves , and he didnt mix it .
he just poured it on my face , laughing as my skin fizzed with screaming agony .
last thing i remember was trying to make it to the kitchen to rinse it off my face with water .
that probably saved my life .
she stopped and peered at him through the gloom .
i wish theyd killed me .
ive sat here many times , ever since they released me from the hospital , wishing i was dead .
id kill myself but it would damn my soul to hell forever , according to the priest who stops in occasionally to mitigate my torment .
so i sit in the dark , and pray to an unlikely god to end my misery .
so far , hes ignored me , just the same as he ignored my familys cries for mercy .
jesus theres no jesus here .
theres only what they turned me into .
what they did to me .
theres only this .
jasmine leaned forward so that he could see her face in the dim light .
one side was the jasmine he remembered .
beautiful , serene , now with tears streaming freely down her cheek .
the other side of her face was an abomination .
the acid had seared off her living flesh , blinded her , and so ruined it that it more resembled something that had been dragged down a road for miles , or trapped in a fire , than something human .
the tendons and ligaments were exposed and , even two years after the horrific event , it was a suppurating wet sorea picture of hell on earth incarnate .
the young man had seen plenty of death and savagery in his life but even he was shocked , and he automatically recoiled from the sight .
it was the most horrible thing hed ever seen .
he felt his gag reflex triggering as the pit of his stomach dropped out .
oh oh god , jasmine there was nothing to say .
no words anyone could say to make it better .
jasmine had been right .
there was no hope .
chapter 7 the cantina lights twinkled in the softness of the spring night air the bouncing beat of lively banda music floated out from inside , along with raucous laughter and peals of glee from inebriated women .
it was saturday night and the party was in full swing on the outskirts of culiacan , a rough and rural area populated by hard men with dead eyes and females who were looking for a fast luxury ride to nowhere .
this was cartel country and the bar was a cartel bar , so if you hadnt grown up in the area and didnt know the owners , you didnt go inside unless you had a death wish .
it was one of the few places in mexico where armand altamar could let his hair down and relax .
he wasnt at war with anyone for the time being so he had little to fear .
things were prospering under his iron rule and everyone was making a ton of money since hed taken over most of don miguels duties .
hed had to give up some of the meth and heroin traffic to diego up north , and had to cut in aranas , the head of the sinaloa cartel , for a fifteen percent larger slice of his cocaine traffic but even so , business had grown to the point where he didnt even feel the dilution he was pocketing fifty million dollars a month , on a bad one .
not so bad for a forty year old ex enforcer who had come up from the streets , fighting tooth and nail for anything he ever got .
hed been born in one of culiacans worst barrios , a desperate den of poverty and filth that few walked away from .
now he was running things after someone had taken out the don .
it was like a dream come true and he was making the most of it .
every weekend , he would hire one of the most popular banda groups in sinaloa to play for his de facto private party at his bar .
every friend he had would attend , as well as some of the most beautiful examples of mexican femininity in the country all to pay homage to him and celebrate his success .
not that winning the spoils had been easy , by any means .
for a few months after the don had passed on to his just reward , culiacan had been a death zone .
five or six different factions fought it out for his turf , and the streets had literally run red with their blood .
the only way altamar had emerged victorious was through a combination of epic brutality , stealth , deceit and , surprisingly , a willingness to compromise with his rivals .
after several of his competitors had been found beheaded , along with their entire families including newborn babies , aged relatives and even household pets the notion of doing a deal to end the madness had been appealing to even the most battle hardened contenders .
and so a cautious truce had gone into effect .
the killing stopped , prosperity returned and everyone went back to doing what they were supposed to do making money a lot of money .
maybe not as much as if one man ran it all , as don miguel had , but , then again , more than anyone could spend in a hundred lifetimes , just the same .
altamar had introduced the idea that you had to be alive to spend it , and had been utterly ruthless in driving home the point that , unless you cooperated and stepped out of the way , your life wasnt worth anything .
over four hundred and seventy people had lost their lives in the two months following the dons passing , at least according to the official count .
the actual number was more like double that , many left rotting in hidden fields for the carrion birds to pick apart , or buried in shallow graves .
one particularly brutal week , the rivers had been chocked with bodies floating down from the marijuana fields .
it finally got to the point where even those accustomed to incredible violence and brutality had been through enough , and so they worked out a truce .
hed proved his point .
if you crossed him , you , your family , your servants and their families would all be slaughtered without a seconds hesitation .
it had been a stunningly effective campaign .
by its short but bloody end , he was in charge of a coalition of former rivals who were all still alive to spend their money .
true , hed made lifelong enemies due to his tactics , but he wasnt worried .
nobody dared move against him .
the price of even the slightest thing going wrong was the extermination of everyone you knew , of everything you held precious .
the stakes were just too high , so he settled into his position of power with confidence , while always sleeping with one eye open .
his entourage were the most dangerous and violent killers in the region he made a huge point of advertising that fact .
they were men who drank baby blood for breakfast and killed priests over coffee .
by cultivating the reputation as the devil walking the earth , hed climbed to the pinnacle of his world the view from up top was better than hed ever expected .
he had his pick of the most gorgeous young women , he was literally awash with cash and every comfort and toy he desired .
he was feared and revered for his ruthlessness and his absolute power .
it was as close as you could get to being a demigod .
and it was good .
tonight , hed been drinking tequila with his cousins , who were never far away from his side .
he surrounded himself with family and made sure they also wanted for nothing .
blood was their bond , hed repeat over and over when drunk .
altamar made sure that they understood he was a hundred percent loyal to his family , and he expected nothing less in return but the same .
the threat was as clear as the reward .
stick with altamar , and you would live a happy and prosperous life .
get it into your head to betray him and hed erase you from the earth .
the combination of carrot and stick was highly effective .
inside the club , the air was thick with a haze of cigarette and marijuana smoke .
the police avoided the building like it was radioactive , so there were no rules when within its four walls , the interior of which were covered with cowboy regalia .
lassos , bridles , photos of prize bulls and horses , horseshoes .
myriad related paraphernalia adorned every inch of the place , giving it an air of a themed junk shop .
booths ringed both of the longer sides of the room , which featured an elaborate stage on one end and a long wooden bar on the opposite .
girls in cowboy hats and microscopic jean shorts or miniskirts and cowboy boots weaved their way between the small circular tables that cluttered half the floor the remainder of which was left to the many dancers .
the fifteen piece band barely fitted on the stage but neither the musicians nor the celebrants seemed to mind as the caterwauling of the dissonant horn section battled with the strident tenor of the singer , who was belting out a song begging apology for a series of indiscretions with other women because this time , hed be faithful due to having changed .
straw was scattered about the floor in an effort to create a more authentically rustic experience .
the overall tone of the establishment was a rowdy rural roadhouse , albeit fifteen minutes from the edge of a cosmopolitan city of over a million in population .
most of the men wore jeans or slacks with cowboy boots and hats their female companions wore little but smiles , their modesty cloaked by strategically donned tops that struggled to contain their charms , with shorts or pants that looked like theyd been sprayed on .
many of the girls were in their late teens to early twenties with a fair mix of professionals and those looking to find a generous narcotraficante sugar daddy .
it was a playground for men who lived at breakneck speed , for whom the light of tomorrow was not guaranteed , and who denied themselves nothing .
outside the building , four discreetly armed men loitered a few feet from the entrance , providing the obligatory muscle should anyone be so foolhardy as to interrupt the fiesta with unpleasantness .
they were in their mid twenties , with a palpable air of menace and dispositions that indicated their willingness to kill you just as readily as bum a smoke .
two were ex marines , the other two survivors of a lifetime on the street the four of them had tallied between themselves at least ten times their number in killings .
the area around the club was dense brush that had been cleared to create the mammoth dirt parking lot .
a custom built neon sign atop a metal column blinked the image of a highly stylized devil wearing a cowboy hat and leering suggestively at new arrivals , its oscillating illumination lending a carnival air to the tightly parked cars .
occasionally , another vehicle would pull off the main road and brave the hundred yards to the club , headlights briefly shining on the front of the establishment before finding a spot among the rest of the patrons .
inside , altamar slammed his fist down on the scarred table top of his favorite booth , having just finished telling another tale of one of his conquests , and threw back his head and laughed with delight .
the girls on either side of him were all smiles .
another round of tequila and beer hastily arrived , altamar having waved down a waitress moments earlier .
the service staff didnt need to ask what kind it was always the same .
negra modelo and cazadores .
altamar liked the familiar , and he was a veritable drinking machine every friday and saturday night .
his cousins invariably struggled to keep up with him as the hour got late , which deterred him not one iota .
hed be having a private party later with the pair of youthful minxes accompanying him .
his two cousins eyed him with envious admiration even as their vision began to blur .
they had their own girls , but not much was going to be happening by the end of the night , when theyd fall dazed into bed with the room spinning while their companions did their best to entertain them .
altamar , on the other hand , had a reputation for being insatiable , more than likely helped by the plentiful chemical supplementation he lavished upon himself .
he looked around after delivering the hysterically funny punch line to his latest story , and delivered it again , louder , for emphasis .
no doubt it would be even funnier the second time .
so i tell the fucker , what , you think youre superman ?
all right , asshole , so youll have no problem flying .
and then i threw him off the roof of the building .
you know , in the end , he didnt fly so good !
he pounded the table again , killing himself with his wit .
his company tittered drunkenly , the girls beaming toothy smiles , but he quickly lost interest in the ladies as nature called .
altamar stood up unsteadily and , after stabilizing himself with the table , woozily moved to the rear of the club , where he had an office with a private restroom .
he grappled with his keys and unlocked the door before entering and turning the deadbolt , ensuring he wouldnt be interrupted while conducting his important business .
altamar flicked on the overhead light and leaned against the wall for a second , as though the act of walking forty yards had sapped his energy .
maybe hed had too much tequila too fast , he thought , and then he stumbled over to his desk , slid the center drawer open and extracted a small vial .
he fiddled with the top , and after tearing it free tapped out two fat lines of cocaine on the glass desktop .
he rolled up a hundred dollar bill and snorted them with gusto , wincing at the delicious burn as the drug hit his septum .
augmentation complete , he moved to the bathroom and opened the door .
he failed to notice the shadow in the dark room or the quiet rustle before excruciating pain lanced through his head and everything went dark .
fifteen minutes later , his cousins realized that altamar had been gone a long time and staggered back to the office to check on him .
the door was locked , which wasnt unexpected .
the men pounded on it , calling to him .
after getting no response to multiple efforts , they went and found two of altamars security detail , who swiftly broke the door down , guns drawn .
the office was pitch black .
when they turned on the lights , they were confronted with an empty room .
the most sober of the cousins went to the window and pulled the blinds up , then yelled at the two guards , pointing at the opening .
three of the iron bars over the window had been cut , either with a welding torch or some sort of acid , and were bent out at right angles , creating a space just large enough for a body to fit through .
the music stopped two minutes later .
the fiesta was abruptly terminated .
armed men milled about , uncertain as to what to do until the cousin who had discovered the window issued instructions and they raced for their vehicles .
altamar faded in and out of consciousness , unsure what was happening to him .
he was bouncing against a hard surface , felt cool air blowing over him and a sense of motion .
he struggled to move but his wrists and ankles were bound and he had tape over his mouth .
he opened his eyes wider but couldnt make anything out something was blocking his vision .
his arm hurt in the upper bicep like hed been shot , and the last thought he had as he faded again was that someone had injected him with something to knock him out .
eventually , altamar returned to full awareness and this time he could see , albeit without much clarity .
he blinked his eyes in a futile effort to clear his head , which was splitting from the blow .
he tried to reach up to touch the tender spot and discovered that he could only move his arm a few inches from where it was extended slightly above shoulder level .
he tried the other arm , also extended , and met with the same resistance .
now fully alert , his respiration increased and he was flooded with a sense of panic .
when he tried to move his legs , he encountered the same problem he was immobilized , spread eagled , his arms and legs stretched wide .
his nose registered the musty odor of long abandoned horse stalls , and when his vision returned to near normal , he could see that he was indeed in an old barn , chained to the floor .
he continued to struggle for a few minutes until blood began tricking from his wrists where hed torn most of the skin off from pulling against the chains .
dim light came from a pair of headlights outside the closed barn door , where slim illumination crept through from around the sides and the base .
altamar screamed , more a hoarse croak than anything , largely due to the effects on his vocal cords of whatever hed been dosed with .
he paused after several seconds and heard a sound from the far end of the space .
he was able to move his head and crane his neck and he saw a young man dressed entirely in black turn to face him from the area by the stalls .
the young man sauntered over unhurriedly and smiled humorlessly at altamar , causing his breath to catch in his throat and his blood to run cold .
he knew that look , and knew what it meant .
he needed to take the initiative or this could get far worse .
you fucking cocksucker .
ill cut your balls off and force you to eat them in front of me .
do you have any idea who i am ?
altamar rasped at him .
a good defense was often a strong offense .
the young man smiled again , almost blithely , and without responding , opened the barn door and sauntered out to the truck that was parked outside , returning after a few minutes with a lit kerosene lantern .
he placed it carefully on a stall ledge so it brightened the area where altamar was chained and went back to the truck , extinguishing its headlights and shutting off the motor .
altamar heard the mans footsteps grow louder and then he was blinded by a blue white flash .
his vision gradually returned , and he was blinded by another .
the young man was taking photographs of him .
a spike of fear ran through altamar .
he decided to try a different approach .
im very , very rich .
i can get you whatever you want , eh ?
anything .
how much money do you want ?
whats it going to take ?
altamar sensed that threats werent going to have any effect , so hed appeal to greed , which was a constant in all humans .
it wasnt a question of if , it was a matter of how much .
the man just smiled again , shaking his head as if dealing with a child .
did you hear me ?
i can get you anything .
millions of dollars .
in cash .
whats your number ?
what do you want ?
a million ?
two million ?
fine .
i can get you two million dollars with a phone call .
the young man considered the idea , and then nodded .
i think id like to be a millionaire .
that sounds like it would be fun .
so you get me two million dollars , and then once i have the money and im safe , ill release you .
ill unlock your chains , and youll be free to go .
you dont know me , so im not worried about being found by your thugs .
how do we do this ?
the young man asked .
now youre thinking .
in my pocket .
i have a phone .
get it for me , and ill give you a number to call .
let me talk , and well set up getting you your money .
but how ?
how will i get the money and know im safe , and that your men arent watching me or following me ?
he asked .
we can do it like ive done some of my deals .
we pick a remote location youre familiar with .
at a predetermined time , a man will come and put a bag with the money wherever you like , and then leave .
you wait as long as you want , and then retrieve the money .
its a standard drop .
we do it all the time , altamar explained .
ah .
good thinking .
i think i can improve on that .
i have an idea that will work .
and then he explained what he wanted .
altamars eyes widened .
very smart .
ive never heard of anything like that before .
i see what youre trying to do .
it will be impossible to follow you that way .
okay , make the call .
we have a deal .
you get your money , you unchain me and let me go , right ?
im a man of my word .
how will i know youll do as you say ?
i went to a lot of trouble to get you out alive .
if id wanted to kill you , youd have been dead an hour ago .
i want something else .
so make the call , and lets get this over with , the young man replied .
altamars features clouded something about the interaction was off .
he didnt know what , but he didnt believe his captor .
you know what ?
fuck you .
i think youre lying , and youre going to kill me anyway , he hissed .
fair enough .
i guess ill kill you now .
and youll never find out if you were wrong .
the young man shrugged , apparently uninterested in which way the transaction went .
from the back of his pants , he pulled a semi automatic pistol and approached altamar .
the drug lord struggled to maintain his composure , but his eyes widened at the sight of the gun .
wait .
heres my proposal .
you get the two million , but you hand me over in exchange for the money when you get it .
the young man smiled again with genuine amusement .
i must not be very convincing , or you must be very stupid .
this isnt a negotiation .
you either give me two million dollars on my terms , and i release you , or you fuck around and i blow your brains out .
or maybe i gut shoot you and watch you lie in your own shit and blood for a few hours while you beg me to end the agony .
he considered that mental image .
you really think im going to let your men pick me off with a sniper rifle the second youre safe ?
im disappointed .
i was sure you were smarter than that .
maybe ill blow your kneecaps off , and youll be walking around on prosthetic limbs for the rest of your miserable life , just so you know im serious .
do you need me to do that ?
show you im serious ?
altamar hesitated , calculating , and then his shoulders slumped .
no .
i believe you .
fine .
well do it your way .
make the call .
the young man dialed the number altamar gave him , and then held the phone up to the ear of the cartel kingpin .
when the other end of the line answered , altamar explained hed been kidnapped , but that it was okay , and to gather two million in cash and have it ready to go at four a.m. in two more hours .
he then gave instructions on how it was to be delivered .
altamar had many millions in cash stashed in multiple places in town , so getting two million was the least of his problems .
altamar listened to the response and then barked angrily into the phone .
dont argue with me .
just do it .
my life is at stake here .
do it precisely as i explained , and dont fuck around or try anything clever .
i dont want to die because you got smart , altamar warned , before the young man terminated the call and pocketed the phone .
all right .
i did my part .
so now you go get your money , and then you let me go .
you better move a long way away from here , because its not going to be very healthy for you after this , you know ?
altamar couldnt resist the threat .
he had a good sense for people , and he believed that the young man would release him .
i dont intend to stay very long .
now , if youll excuse me , i have some things to attend to , the young man apologized , turning to leave .
altamar was startled by a sound of scurrying from out of his field of vision , above his head .
what the fuck ?
whats that ?
he hissed .
that ?
oh , thats probably the rats , i expect .
i remember the place was infested with them last time i was here , the young man said conversationally .
rats ?
then you cant leave me here on the ground .
get me up , altamar demanded .
the young man appeared to consider it .
no , youll stay where you are .
besides , youll soon have bigger things to think about than a few pesky rats , he reasoned , and moved to grab the bottle hed placed on the ground near the door .
whats that ?
altamar asked , his voice catching .
youll know soon enough .
i wanted to leave you something to reflect upon while im off picking up my money .
you may not remember , but you hurt someone i care deeply about and im here to return the favor .
that was why i wanted you alive , although once you made the offer of the money , i felt it would be poor manners to turn it down , the young man explained , carefully unscrewing the top of the glass bottle .
altamar stared up at him , horrified , as the young man approached .
he renewed his struggle against the chains .
no .
you promised youd let me go , altamar protested .
i did .
and i will .
but i never promised youd want to be let go , he said , and then poured a small amount of the acid on the cartel boss face , careful to avoid splashing any on his own clothes or shoes .
altamars skin began to bubble and smoke , and his eyes immediately ulcerated as the fluid seared through the lids .
altamars agonized shrieks were bloodcurdling , but had no effect on the young man .
they were in the middle of nowhere , the big house abandoned and jasmines home a quarter mile away .
there was no one to hear the screams , which gradually died as some acid entered his mouth and cauterized his tongue and throat .
the young man resealed the bottle and placed it on the stall next to the lantern , and then turned , unbuckling his pants .
id rape your sorry ass as well , but im afraid id catch something .
so instead , ill leave you to the rats .
theyll come soon enough , he disclosed as he urinated on altamars face , rinsing off most of the acid so the man would remain alive .
he wanted the agony to last as long as possible , and he didnt want the scumbag to get off lightly by dying after a few minutes of unspeakable pain .
ill be back after i get the money you so generously offered .
i should have held out for five , but since its not about the money , two is more than enough no point in being greedy , and it would be harder to carry .
when i get back , if the rats have left anything of you , ill release you just as i promised .
without a face , but then again , youve done as bad or worse , so you cant really complain , he reasoned .
altamar gurgled , choking .
it was now hard to tell given the condition of what had been his face , but the young man thought he might be choking , the acid having removed his nose along with most of his skin and tendons .
he reached into his back pocket and withdrew a pocket knife , which he opened as he approached the drug boss .
kneeling down , he stabbed it into the mans windpipe just above his clavicle , and then stepped back to study the wound .
blood frothed forth , and he turned and trotted out to the truck , returning a few seconds later with a pen .
he used his teeth to pull out the ballpoint mechanism , leaving a slender tube , which he first blew through , and then jabbed through the bloody opening .
he listened attentively , and was rewarded with the sound of air moving in and out through the pen , albeit labored breathing but beggars couldnt be choosers .
there .
youll live .
although youll wish you hadnt .
ill be taking the lantern .
the rats seem to prefer the dark for their work .
they seem emboldened by the night .
have a nice rest , he said , and then grabbed the light and walked out of the barn , taking care to shut the door securely behind him .
the big ford lobo engine started , and the last thing altamar registered as the wheels crunched on the gravel outside was the sound of the exhaust disappearing in the distance .
then the rats came .
chapter 8 a green ford explorer pulled into the darkened lot of the little restaurant .
a man got out , carrying a backpack with two million dollars in it , carefully sealed in ziploc freezer bags .
after surveying the road and verifying he was alone , he swung the rear of the suv open and withdrew an inflated tire inner tube .
he strapped the backpack securely to the tire using two bungee cords and stuck a cheap plastic flashlight into the exterior flap of the bag , the lens sticking out partway .
he gingerly carried the ensemble down the banks to the edge of the canal rosales , and scanning the area again , flicked the switch on the flashlight before putting the inner tube on the waters surface and pushing it out towards the middle of the moving current .
he watched as it floated slowly away from him to the middle of the fifty foot wide canal , the little light bobbing as it made its way downstream .
once it was out of sight , he returned to his truck and drove away .
the young man spied on him from a hundred yards downstream through binoculars , noting the passage of the floating treasure as it moved slowly by him , and watched the mans tail lights disappear down the road .
once he was satisfied that he was alone he ran down the overgrown bank as far as he could make it , before diving into the canal .
within a few minutes his powerful strokes had carried him downstream , and he caught up to the tire .
he switched off the flashlight so he would be completely invisible in the dark , moonless night .
he made for the shore , and once close began moving against the current to a concrete embankment hed drifted forty yards beyond .
after reaching the bank he exited the chilly water , pausing to remove the backpack from the contrivance before lashing the flashlight back in place on the tube , switching it back on , and pushing it out into the stream again , on the off chance theyd been stupid enough to position someone further downstream at the bridge that spanned the canal a quarter mile away .
he moved into the brush and located his black army boots exactly where hed left them , with a change of dry clothes .
he quickly stripped off his soaking black t shirt and pants and wrung them out before stuffing them into the bag with the cash .
after slipping into another black shirt and a pair of jeans , he pulled his boots on and was ready to move within two minutes .
he edged silently through the brush and found the path at the end of which hed left the truck , and debated his next move .
there was more to attend to .
hed need to keep his word and deal with altamar .
he started the engine , and then had a thought so evil it surprised even him .
there was a sense of poetic justice to it , really .
he put the big truck in gear and pulled off into the night , tapping his fingers to the faint latin rock beat playing on the radio .
so this was what it was like to be rich .
sort of cold and wet , but it would do .
by the time he made it back to the barn it was five thirty in the morning , and dawn would be shining its rays onto the valley within forty five minutes .
he wanted to make short work of his remaining chores , so he sprang from the truck and moved to the barn entrance , carrying the lantern with him as he whistled a happy tune .
when he opened the door he was greeted by angry squeaking from a mass of rats that were feeding on altamar , most of which scurried away in fear when he swung the lantern at them .
he inspected the feared cartel chiefs ravaged torso and face , checking for signs of breathing , and was rewarded by his chest laboring to draw air through the tube .
he shook his head it was truly amazing that hed made it .
the scumbag had the constitution of an ox .
the young man crouched down , unlocked the padlocks that secured the chains on the drug lords feet and hands , and left them by his side .
he stood , surveying the barns interior , and saw that there was still abundant desiccated hay on the floor .
altamar emitted a groaning sound from where his mouth had been , but where now there were merely gums and teeth , his lips having been neatly removed by the acidand then the rats .
the young man fished the camera out again and took another photo , ensuring that the time stamp wasnt on .
im back .
a deals a deal .
i released you .
i think that its a safe bet that with a mug like that you wont be doing the cover shot for telenoticias any time soon , but maybe you can get some part time work scaring kids for halloween .
youre free to go , so thanks for the memories and have a nice life .
oh , and i know youll need some light given the condition of whats left of your eyes , so ill be a nice guy and leave the lantern burning for you .
hope you make it out before the fire gets out of control .
thats got to be a horrible way to die , the young man said in a kind , soft voice , before tossing the lantern against the ground and watching the kerosene splatter onto the dry hay from its broken reservoir .
the fire immediately spread and began to roar , and soon the entire barn was ablaze .
inspecting his work with quiet satisfaction , the young man spun and walked to the door , pausing to kick altamar in the groin as he moved past him .
it wouldnt do to have the filthy parasite passing out .
hed want his full attention for this phase of what remained of his short life .
the fire licked from the barn door and windows as he started the trucks engine .
after a few moments it was obvious that altamar wasnt going to make it out .
a shame , really .
it would almost be better if he somehow managed to survive .
a life in that mangled condition would be fitting punishment for what hed done to jasmine and her family .
but a deal was a deal , and hed kept his word .
he slid the transmission into reverse and pulled away .
there was nothing left to see .
the truck approached the small house and rolled to a stop , the engine going silent as the driver side door opened .
the young man moved to the homes entrance and expertly picked the lock .
once inside , he crept soundlessly to the main bedroom , where jasmine was sleeping .
hed been tortured since hed seen her face .
even after getting revenge for the vicious brutality , he knew her life was going to continue to be a miserable nightmare .
nobody could help her .
hed gladly leave her the two million dollars if he thought for a second that medicine could fix her face to anything resembling normalcy , but he knew that was an impossibility .
it was just another example of a cruel and unpredictable universe punishing the innocents and making their every moment a tortured farce .
he watched as she lay , breathing fitfully , her ravaged profile a constant reminder of the pain shed endured , and then he pulled his pistol from his belt and shot her in the head .
ten minutes later he sat on the hood of the truck , watching the house burn , embers blowing into the pre dawn as they carried his jasmines soul with them .
he reasoned that if there was such thing as hell , he would be going anyway , so he was more than willing to carry the burden of ending her suffering and doing what she couldnt do for herself .
he winced as the roof collapsed , the propane for the stove having provided ample fuel to get the blaze started .
a single tear trickled its way down his cheek his lonely offering to a world that brutalized its children and savaged its meek .
his shoulders shuddered as he cried for what could have been , and what jasmine could have had , at the unfairness of it all and the pointlessness of everything .
eventually , his sorrow exhausted , he gruffly rubbed the moisture from his face with his shirt sleeve before getting behind the wheel and driving away .
there was still much to be done , and he could bemoan his existence later .
solomon valiente sat in the office of his furniture store , ranchero music humming forth from the showroom speakers in an attempt to lure pedestrians in , wondering what the gimmick was in this overture from an unknown .
hed gotten a strange call an hour earlier indicating that a stranger wanted to speak with him on an important matter of urgency .
he rubbed his neck , absently fingering the heavy gold links that held the crucifix he never removed .
he gestured to the two men standing by his door to allow the young man to enter his office .
valiente was one of the main rivals to altamars iron hold on his empire , and it was well known that he hated the drug lord , furious over some close family members who had been killed by altamars goons when the power struggle over don miguels holdings was underway .
in the interests of prosperity theyd made their fragile pact , but valiente held a grudge , and he was a dangerous and powerful adversary in his own right .
the young man had approached him through a street level enforcer that morning and requested a meeting .
he claimed to have something of tremendous value to offer valiente , which had naturally piqued his interest valiente was a man best avoided , so he wasnt accustomed to being solicited for anything .
three security men had frisked the young man upon his arrival , verifying that he had no weapons and wasnt wearing a wire before allowing him near valientes office so there could be no trickery or immediate physical threat always a concern in the cartel game , where you could routinely expect attempts on your life on virtually any pretense .
valiente leaned forward in his reclining chair as the young man entered and sat in one of the two chairs in front of his desk , a stern , armed enforcer bracketing him on either side , ever mindful of the slightest wrong move .
so , you want a meeting .
here it is .
tell me what it is you have thats of such value to me , valiente started , sipping his coffee while appraising the young mans face .
im an ex marine .
i want to begin a career as a specialist in contract executions for your cartel .
ive been trained in every sort of weapons and demolition , and i have a years worth of combat experience with over thirty six confirmed kills , the young man began .
thats interesting , but its not of that much value to me .
dont get me wrong , i can always use good men , but theres a difference between coming looking for a job , and bringing me something of value , valiente observed .
i know .
and im not looking for a job .
im offering my services as a contractor .
and what i have to offer you , i believe , is significant .
as a good faith token , take a look at this .
it was taken seven hours ago .
he removed the small digital camera from his pants pocket , powered it on and thumbed through the photos until he reached the desired one .
he handed the device to valiente .
valiente peered at the screen and blinked , and then his eyes narrowed , taking on a vaguely reptilian cast .
both of you .
get out , he instructed his bodyguards .
the two hulking men exchanged glances , and then with distrustful glares at the new arrival , obediently left the room .
i could have you killed for this , and altamar would reward me with anything i wanted .
no .
he wouldnt .
he cant give you what you really want .
only i can .
today .
because you dont want to live in his shadow forever , and i have the ability to make him disappear , now , and never give you any more problems .
you and you alone would know he was gone , enabling you to consolidate power and take steps ahead of any of your competitors , ensuring that youd replace him .
heres what i propose .
you pay me three hundred thousand dollars and he disappears effective immediately .
valientes eyes tracked the young mans unblinking gaze as he spoke .
you pay me two hundred thousand dollars each for as many of your rivals you want dispatched within the next seventy two hours , and ill make it so .
its a guarantee that you will take over altamars business at that point , which will make you that amount of money in a matter of minutes .
i have him right now , so you havent attempted anything .
i have .
as i see it , you have nothing to lose and everything to gain .
the young man had spoken in a calm , soft voice , with measured inflection , laying out the options in a methodical manner .
valiente sank back into his plush chair and considered the proposition while eying the young man .
he weighed the options and then rose .
if you can do this , we have a deal .
what payment do you propose ?
the three hundred i want now , and before the days end i will bring you a photo of your enemy dead .
the others , half up front , half upon successful completion .
its actually a bargain , but im anxious to make a name for myself and earn your support , the young man said .
valiente nodded .
it was indeed a bargain .
they both knew it .
he was being handed the keys to the kingdom for a song .
i have to say , this comes as a complete surprise .
if you can pull this off , youll be very , very busy carrying out jobs for me .
valiente stared into his empty cup .
and what is your name ?
what shall i call you , my young mystery killer who comes bearing gifts ?
the young man didnt hesitate .
hed already decided on his professional moniker .
he would be named after the cursed card that had ruined his life , and had freed him at the same time .
el rey .
after the tarot card , the king of swords .
you can call me el rey .
chapter 9 later that evening , after catching a few hours of sleep , el rey returned to valiente with the photo of altamar after the acid facial scrub , having collected his fee before departing the office earlier in the day .
the cartel boss was both fascinated and repelled by the after image of altamar and this was a man who saw death on an almost daily basis .
jesus christ .
what did you do to him ?
valiente exclaimed .
el rey shrugged .
acid .
damn , kid .
youre one sick bastard , ill grant you that .
i never want to piss you off , valiente admitted .
i figured youd want something that would make a statement .
you can download the photo or i can e mail it to you for circulation purposes if anyone ever decides to test your power .
i imagine it would deliver a considerable deterrent value , el rey said .
this will stop anyone that doesnt have a death wish in their tracks .
valiente slid a folder to him , along with a black garbage bag .
i have three primary rivals i need executed in the next two days .
their details are in the folder .
half the money for the first contract is in the sack .
come back when youve done the first one and ill pay you the balance and give you a payment for the second and third contracts .
but i need this handled quickly , because once they get wise to altamar being missing for any significant period of time theyll be coming for me .
then i better get going .
i could use some help locating a few things for the jobs , though .
i figure youd know where to find these .
he handed valiente a small piece of notepaper .
the sooner i can get them , the sooner i can fulfill these contracts .
valiente studied the precisely detailed list .
the m4 is no problem .
weve got a bunch of those .
dont know if any have a night scope on them , though .
let me make a call .
the remington we also have , or can get within a few hours .
same for the beretta with a silencer .
pretty standard issue , that .
valiente looked up from the list and el rey nodded approvingly .
lot of the marines bring those remington 700s with them they love their sniper rifles .
i see youre okay with the .308 .
that will make it easy .
oh , and plastique and grenades ?
how messy do you plan to make this ?
i dont want to be associated with public bloodbaths in crowds .
you need to be surgical .
i intend to be as discreet as possible , but its better to be prepared , than not .
for now , ill get busy on the first contract while you source that gear .
how can i contact you at night ?
ill want to pick up the weapons as soon as you have them .
valiente scribbled a cell number on the back of a card .
call me in two hours and well arrange a drop off .
dont worry about the cost theyre on me .
im presuming youll want , what , five hundred rounds for the m4 and maybe fifty for the remington and the beretta ?
valiente confirmed .
el rey nodded .
make it a hundred for the beretta .
valiente grunted .
he was already imagining how it would feel to be sitting on altamars throne .
okay , then , were set .
and you , my friend , can call me any time .
he looked at the image on the little camera again .
im glad youre on my side el rey .
so am i .
both men smiled , any humor never reaching their eyes .
el rey had checked into a high end hotel in town and now sat at the small rectangular table in his room going over the details of the three targets .
he didnt see a problem taking them out but it would get progressively harder as word of a purge spread .
ideally , he would do all in the same night but the logistics wouldnt accommodate that , and he reconciled himself that hed be lucky to get two , with the third on the schedule for the following day .
he jotted the addresses down and decided to go for a drive to reconnoiter the neighborhoods and see what he would be dealing with .
valiente had supplied plentiful information on the targets security , so there would hopefully be no surprises there , but he wanted to determine if there was anything valiente had missed .
he would need a different vehicle than the truck , so he would have to buy something , preferably with an alarm and dependable , considering that he would be driving around with over two million in cash .
it was a thursday evening , so he headed to the part of town where all the new car dealers had lots , before they closed .
some lucky salesman was about to get a dream handed to him .
el rey drove to the toyota dealer , and after an hour emerged with the keys to a shiny new black 4 runner with a factory alarm .
that would more than do .
he could do the reconnaissance in the plate less toyota and then use the big ford for the actual hits .
his days with the ford were numbered in hours , so it would be best to use it , rather than the toyota , for operational purposes .
he drove to the first targets ranch in a neighborhood on the outskirts of town , five acres with a nice colonial style single level house , a modest seven bedrooms per the information hed been given .
he knew from the photos and the file what to expect on the layout , and found several obvious holes in the security setup just driving by .
the first target , manuel remarosa , would be a piece of cake .
the second hit wouldnt be so easy , he knew .
the man lived an hour outside of culiacan on a large parcel of land with only one entry a heavily guarded private road .
there was no point in driving out there before he picked up the weapons , so he returned to the hotel and called valiente , who confirmed he had everything .
they agreed to meet in half an hour at a restaurant in town and the hand off went uneventfully .
valientes security men kept a watchful eye out for threats as they chatted over a snack , before el rey transferred the golf bag with the weapons in it to the lobo .
after heading out to look at the second and third targets homes , he confirmed his instinct that he could only do two of the three that night , at best , and modified his strategy accordingly .
by the time he made it back to the hotel it was ten at night and he was tired , so after checking the weapons and loading them , he took a two hour cat nap .
the slumber did him a world of good , and by one a.m. he was parked a quarter mile from manuel remarosas opulent home .
he would use the beretta and the m4 for this exercise , and hoped hed be able to get in and out without having to fire the assault rifle .
the pistol would be relatively silent but opening up with an automatic rifle would draw considerable undesired attention .
el rey was dressed from head to toe in dark gray army surplus camouflage , nearly invisible as he slid silently through the brush on the periphery of the estate .
he could make out the silhouettes of the armed guards sitting at their assigned points near the primary entry areas , but even so , he didnt anticipate any problems getting in and out .
the one out on the breakfast patio was out of sight of the rest , so he was the weak link .
el reys plan was to neutralize the man and then simply walk into the house , make his way to the targets bedroom and do the deed .
it would be over in no time , before the gunmen had any idea what had happened .
the hurdle was how to cross the expanse of open space between the brush and the house without being detected .
hed need to time it perfectly so as to avoid getting into a firefight .
this kind of spur of the moment operation depended entirely on the element of surprise .
he preferred to plan his future hits carefully but hed been handed the means by which to begin his career with a bang , so hed do what needed to be done on these .
the problem was that , as he watched the house , he couldnt see any means to reach it without alarming the guard and bringing the full wrath of four armed men down on him .
it sucked , but he would need to modify his plan to reflect reality .
hed thought that one of the angles would keep him hidden until he was almost right on the guard , but once he was in the brush he discovered that was illusory .
calculating his next move , he hunkered down to wait , figuring it would be a long night .
manuel remarosa stretched on his four poster bed , and rolled over so that the morning light from the window wouldnt wake him up anymore than he already was .
sadie , his golden retriever , had other ideas and , hearing her master shift on the bed , decided it was time to send him a message of undying love in the form of sloppy wet kisses on his face .
she jumped up onto the mattress between manuel and his wife , gloria , and firmly deposited herself , lavishing her beloved master with affection .
manuel swatted at her halfheartedly before rolling over again towards the window , resigned to his fate .
he couldnt really get too angry with sadie shed been sleeping on the bed with him since a tiny puppy of six weeks , and it was only since she turned one year old a few months ago and was now an adult that shed been relegated to the terracotta tile of the floor .
she loves you , amor .
and youre the one who wanted a dog , gloria murmured from her position on the bed , her voice thick with sleep .
i know , i know .
dont get up .
ill take her out for a little exercise , manuel replied sarcastically .
gloria ignored the jab , already drifting back to dreamland .
manuel slid his slippers on and trundled across the floor to the bathroom , sadie locked to his side in anticipation of going for a walk .
he stood at the toilet going about his business , sadie obediently waiting for him on the other side of the threshold to the forbidden area , and yawned loudly , stretching his arms over his head and finishing by rubbing his hand across the coarse stubble on his cheeks .
he was fat , he knew , but not dangerously so maybe forty or fifty pounds .
but he could always lose it that was his daily mantra before going for a half hearted morning jog , which inevitably terminated with a huge breakfast loaded with cholesterol , carbs and cheese .
manuel scratched his bottom as he considered shaving , then decided hed forego that chore today .
he entered the huge walk in closet and donned his workout outfit a green america soccer tunic and basketball shorts before turning to sadie , whose eyes twinkled with anticipation .
who wants to go for a walk ?
he asked innocently .
sadie danced back and forth , her tail whipping the air in a frenzy , doing everything in her power to convey to her master that it was she , indeed , that wanted to do so .
if only i could find someone who wanted to go for a walk !
manuel exclaimed , and sadie began whining as she pranced in the doorway , occasionally leaping into the air and twirling completely around in a canine display of balletic prowess .
manuel decided to give the dog a break and not torture her any more , although he knew she enjoyed the buildup as much as he enjoyed her reaction .
together , they moved to the bedroom door and made their way down the hall , a wholly unlikely pair .
he stopped in the kitchen and greeted maria , their cook , who was already simmering something heavenly smelling on the expansive viking stove top .
whats that ?
he asked .
machaca , don remarosa , she replied softly .
maria was sixty , from los mochis , north of culiacan on the sea of cortez , and was a remarkably talented cook .
shed been with him for a quarter of his forty years , and he still looked forward to her meals every day .
make sure its low fat .
remember im on a diet , he chided , rubbing his ample belly with a grin .
always , don remarosa , maria assured him .
manuel was a brutal killer who had executed twenty competitors over his two decades of ascending the cartel ladder in sinaloa , but he loved his mother , his four children , his dog , his wife and his two mistresses .
and marias cooking .
it never occurred to him to question his lifestyle hed come up from the streets , where hed started out as a collector for one of don aranas cells , and had worked his way up to his current position as one of altamars trusted lieutenants , and was now making ten million dollars every year .
this , for a boy from the slums who had terminated his education at the age of twelve to live by his wits on the streets of culiacan .
the cartel game had made him a rich man , and he wanted for nothing .
if he had to get his hands dirty , so be it .
hed murdered his first man when he was thirteen , using a bread knife , and had never looked back .
his life had been relatively tranquil under the reign of his new boss , and he had hardly had to kill anyone so far this year an anomaly for the business .
it was a time of peace , and he was happy to be reaping the rewards of altamars rule .
he still remembered the bad time a few years back when don miguel had been executed , the streets running red with blood .
hed had to pack his family and send them off to lake chapala during the worst of it .
for months , hed lived like a terrorist commander , hiding for his life in different anonymous locations as he waged a guerilla war against his competitors each day .
it was like anything else , he supposed .
there were good times and the not so good times .
it wasnt perfect , but then again , nobody got rich in mexico without getting bloody .
hed made his choices and had prevailed .
he couldnt complain .
manuel lumbered to the entry door with sadie springing alongside him and stepped outside to the crisp air of a bright new morning .
he loved this time of day .
it was cool enough so you werent sweating through your clothes , and the rainy season hadnt started yet .
spring was a perfect time to live in sinaloa , and he relished the season with the joy of an alcoholic with a full bottle .
his morning shift of bodyguards was dutifully waiting outside for him , two of them on all terrain vehicles , with their weapons cradled in their laps , ready for the jog at whatever time it would begin .
hola , chicos .
you up for another good one ?
manuel greeted his men .
no reply answered him .
none was expected .
these werent his friends , no matter how warm and fuzzy the don acted , and they understood their role was to protect him , not chat with him .
sadie whined and nudged his hand with her nose , anxious to get underway .
manuel began stretching , using the columns of his porch for support , smiling at his beloved dog barely more than a puppy .
searing lances of white hot pain shot through his upper body as his chest exploded .
blood splattered sadie and his men as the burst of gunfire from the brush pounded into his torso .
the men froze momentarily before taking cover wherever they could , shooting haphazardly at the area where the gunfire had come from .
the two on atvs gunned their motors and went tearing off in the direction of the sniper , until first one and then the others head exploded , the vehicles slowing and turning aimlessly now that their operators were dead .
the two guards by the porch had taken refuge behind the heavy stone columns , firing without conviction into the dense foliage at the propertys perimeter .
manuel stared blearily up at the complex herringbone pattern of the brickwork in the dome built into the roof over his porch , the cupula , his breath gurgling from the holes in his chest as his life ran out onto the rustic stone floor .
sadie approached and nosed his face with her own , licking the flecks of blood from his chin in an effort to comfort him , her warm tongue the last thing he would ever register .
his eyes met hers for an instant and then grew wide as he noisily exhaled a long groaning rattle before shuddering into stillness .
sadie lay beside her master , then stood and circled him .
she nudged him again with her nose , and then , as dogs had done since the time theyd joined humans as companions in caves , she sat and pointed her head to the heavens and let forth a baleful howl , filled with all the sadness and pain of the world .
her beloved master was gone .
she was now alone , as only the surviving can be .
chapter 10 what do you mean altamar is missing ?
what the fuck does that mean ?
missing ?
jorge encarlo screamed into his cell phone .
does that mean he decided to disappear and bang a fifteen year old for a few days , or does that mean hes mulch in a tomato field ?
jefe , im telling you everything i know .
i heard from a friend of a friend that he went missing yesterday and his organization is scrambling to find him .
doesnt sound like young love to me , the voice on the phone advised .
encarlo was a bulldog of a man , heavily muscled with a buzz cut and a closely cropped four day shadow .
is there anything else ?
god damn it , get some more information .
i dont care what you have to do .
this could be really big if someones taken the cocksucker out , encarlo snarled .
i know .
im on it .
but you know how this goes .
nobodys going to talk if they think they could wind up beheaded for doing so .
right .
i get it .
the problem is that if altamars been taken out , we need to move rapidly or well all be as good as dead , encarlo warned .
im doing everything i can .
really .
give me some more time and ill find out more .
this just came in , and its not easy getting anyone on his crew to talk .
theyre not chatty types , if you remember .
encarlo silently counted to three .
look .
im not paying you to tell me how hard it is to do your job .
im paying for you to do it .
so do your fucking job and get me some intelligence , or ill find someone who can .
encarlo was fuming and had nobody to take his anger out on .
he stared at his little motorola flip phone , the latest model , and snapped it closed in frustration .
what the hell was going on with altamar ?
if he was really missing in a way that suggested he would never be reappearing except as pieces floating in the river , then encarlo needed to get positioned to take action against the other lieutenants .
that was how it worked .
if the king was dead , long live whoever was left once the smoke cleared and they hosed the blood off the sidewalks .
he didnt make the rules , but he was a survivor , nonetheless .
at thirty one , he was already reputed to be a mover and , even by cartel standards , was utterly ruthless .
hed learned early that shock and awe went a long way towards moving you up the food chain , and so he was prone to violent outbursts of slaughter at the slightest provocation .
that was his modus operandi and it had served him in good stead .
encarlo owned a recycling plant that shipped its product to the united states once it was processed , which had provided excellent cover for shipping other items north as well .
his operation was one of many responsible for the growing methamphetamine traffic that was slowly displacing crack cocaine in many areas of the u.s .
it was a booming market with a rock bottom production cost , so the profits from trafficking in the synthetic drug were swelling his accounts .
it made the cocaine trade seem like small potatoes , if the growth curve kept up .
he picked unconsciously at a scabbed area above his left ear .
it was a nervous tick , one of many hed developed from the constant pressure to stay one step ahead of the rest of the wolf pack .
encarlo used his own products and consumed a fair amount of both meth and cocaine in a cocktail of stimulants that enabled him to sleep only four hours at a stint .
he firmly believed that much of his success was thanks to the long hours he worked , in addition to an innate cunning born of the streets .
those traits , combined with a relentless sadistic bent and a sociopathic streak that would have been the envy of any serial killer , made him the perfect mid level cartel functionary .
his men and his competitors were terrified of him , for good reason the chemical supplementation often resulted in erratic mood swings he could be set off on a bloody tirade by virtually anything .
right now , his antennae were picking up the vibrations of opportunity from the early news of altamars mysterious disappearance .
he knew that if he could confirm that the man was actually gone for good , hed be perfectly positioned to capitalize on the situation and take out his rivals before they knew what had hit them .
it only got dangerous if all facts were known by all the lieutenants at the same time thats where it became a killing field until only one was left standing .
hed gone through that multiple times and there was never any guarantee that you would make it through the next one , no matter how much of a badass you were .
the idea of creating a loose coalition like altamar had never entered his head .
why would he look to his weaker competitors for cooperation when he could simply eliminate them and claim their networks for his own ?
the outreach approach had worked for altamar , but in encarlos opinion it was the flawed plan of a weak man , which would be evidenced by his having been taken out after only two years at the top of his little hub .
he needed to know what was going on , and he needed to know now .
the anxiety was building and he knew from harsh experience that he had to do something salient .
anything .
sitting waiting for feedback was too reactive for his tastes .
restless , he tapped out a line of cocaine to help him focus , and quickly snorted it using a gold tube he carried for the purpose .
he brushed a little on his gums , and shook his head , as if to clear it .
the drug now coursing through his system , encarlo resolved to see if he could shake loose some information himself .
hed hit the street and see if anything came back from his personal contacts .
he had confidence in his men but he couldnt just sit still and wait .
glancing at his watch , he noted that it was already nine thirty in the morning .
time to move .
he stabbed at the keypad of his office phone and barked orders into it , calling for his car to be brought around .
he next dialed his second in command and told him to get three men , packing heavy heat , to meet him at his vehicle in five minutes .
encarlo opened his file cabinet , retrieved a glock 26 9mm pistol and slipped it into his windbreaker pocket .
it was a small gun but packed a decent wallop , and he hated having to wear a shoulder holster like some undercover cop .
hed tried an ankle holster , but it had bothered him it was easier to carry the thing in his pocket .
encarlo made his way downstairs to the ground level and strode through the office doors , past the heavy industrial equipment in the yard , toward his truck a silver fully loaded lincoln navigator with custom rims and steel armored plates welded into each of the four doors .
three men joined him , all toting a variety of submachine guns .
he didnt like to screw around when he went out on the town , and believed in being prepared for an assault at all times .
it wasnt so much paranoia as occupational hazard , and it had kept him alive so far .
his driver nodded at him as he climbed into the passenger seat , the three enforcers climbing in behind him .
one of the reasons he liked the big suv was because it had enough room for three grown men in the back .
the truck moved toward the front gates , which opened via a configuration of hydraulic pistons activated by the security guard in a booth by the street , and then exploded in a blossom of orange fire .
the concussion from the plastique affixed to the gas tank shattered the windows in the nearby buildings as pieces of the truck spiraled through the mushroom cloud of black smoke above it , before inevitably dropping like icarus back to earth .
nothing survived that sort of a blast , and the men that came running did so with slim hope of salvaging anything .
el rey took several snapshots with his little camera from across the thoroughfare .
he put the ford lobo into gear and pulled away down the road to his final destination for the day the third target , who at this point was already as good as neutralized .
the lushly green acreage around the luis barragan inspired mansion in the hills outside culiacan was still in the late morning doldrums , the absence of breeze a seasonal effect that made being outdoors in the swelter unpleasant even for the most seasoned natives .
armed sentries prowled the immaculately manicured grounds around the house , jittery from adrenaline and sweating from the heat .
since early morning theyd been on guard , in a state of high alert .
ricardo pilar sat with his inner circle at a square mesquite table in his dining room .
the five men who were his closest counselors had serious demeanors , and the air was thick with cigarette smoke and anxiety .
hed gotten several frantic phone calls alerting him about the explosion at encarlos plant , and he was troubled by the implications .
pilar sensed that a move was being made , but he wasnt sure who was behind it , and hed dispatched a group of armed men to see what information they could get from the network of lower level cartel soldiers that acted as the informal communication channel on the street .
the preliminary reports that had come back werent good .
two of his four rivals had departed the earth that morning under violent circumstances .
there could only be one explanation , and it warranted swift and decisive action .
pilars nemesis , valiente , was making a play for the leadership position that altamar had held , now that the cartel underboss had been officially missing for a significant enough time .
that could only mean war to pilar , a seasoned veteran of countless purges and fights .
pilar was educated , having attended the university in monterey , and held a degree in business administration that had served him well when creating and managing his network .
hed studied and taken to heart the lessons of business school , and fancied himself to be superior to the ignorant thugs whod ascended to equal footing through sheer brutality and the barrel of a gun .
while he understood the place for bloodshed , he liked to think of himself as above knee jerk reactions involving indiscriminate slaughter .
but he was no fool , and he sensed that it was time to put down the diploma and strap on the pistols .
his captain , eduardo , was arguing passionately , and his lieutenants were nodding approval .
this is our chance .
weve been patient , but its foolishness to sit here waiting for the war to come to us .
if valiente is on the offensive , our best chance to avoid a bloodbath is to make a pre emptive strike .
cut the head off the snake , and the body stops moving .
pilar considered the counsel , and then nodded .
i agree with eduardo .
the explosion that killed encarlo , when combined with news of remarosas execution , is ominous .
i have a bad feeling , and i think its safe to conclude that valiente is making a major offensive , which would mean we are next .
but its not like we can just waltz in and start shooting to solve the problem .
valiente is far too smart to be taken that way .
pilar pushed back from the table , stood , and began pacing compulsively while he spoke .
while i sympathize with everyones passion , id argue that its misplaced .
yes , we need to act , but we also need a coherent plan .
right now , all we have is bluster and talk .
lets finish with the discussion about whether removing valiente is a good idea .
it is .
now i want to hear some ideas about how we do so , pilar said , gesturing with his bottle of pelgrino to emphasize his point .
his men looked at him , none daring to advance an idea that he would shoot down .
heres what we are going to do .
i want you to talk among yourselves and think through how best to eliminate valiente by the end of the day .
then we can put the proposals on the table , and come up with something that makes sense .
but dont waste your time arguing for something thats decided .
i need ideas , not passion .
and my instinct says that were running out of time , so its time to get busy .
pilar glanced at his watch and sighed .
i have some commitments i need to attend to .
but make no mistake , valiente must die before the sun goes down , and i am relying on you to come up with how we achieve that .
pilar fixed each man in turn with an intense stare that bristled with quiet menace .
he may have had a veneer of civility from his education , but he was as dangerous as a cornered pit viper , and his men were quick to remember how hed made it to the top of his group .
ill be back shortly .
make good use of your time .
pilar strode from the room , shaking his head .
this was a classic turf battle , and he needed to get on top of it before valientes goons showed up with machine guns .
he wasnt afraid of that his compound was well equipped with all the latest alarms , electronic sensors and advance warning devices , and he had enough firepower to stop a battalion .
he felt safe at his home , and he was confident that if an attempt against him was going to be made , it wouldnt happen there .
the dense foliage that extended for miles created a natural barrier , and there was only one road in .
so for the moment , at least , he was safe .
pilar had thought through valientes likely next step , and he wasnt overly concerned about a frontal assault .
but he was vulnerable in ways besides the obvious .
if this power struggle lasted very long , business would be negatively impacted , and that would cause disruption among the lieutenants , which could be as dangerous as a shooting war .
it was bad enough that pilars rivals were homicidal psychopaths without him having to worry about younger , more junior aspirants to the throne cutting his heart out while he slept .
he moved to the pocket doors that separated the great room from the rear deck and took in the beauty of his grounds .
it was times of extreme adversity that defined leaders , and even though he fancied himself a civilized man , he understood that it was necessary to be swift an unequivocal in his response to this threat .
pilar had no problem killing it went with the territory .
but hed always tried to keep the violence at arms length , which while not always successful , enabled him to maintain his presumption of superiority .
something in the tree line caught the sun , and pilar squinted to make it out .
the hair on his arms bristled as he detected movement and a flash , and the neurons in his brain were ordering his body to drop to the floor as the high velocity partially jacketed round blew his cheekbone apart , taking the better part of his cerebrum with it .
by the time the guards had a chance to respond to the single shot from the perimeter , the shooter had long since departed , the sound of the dirt bike hed pushed silently for a half mile a noisy memory in the woods .
mexico citys sky was laden with hulking , dark clouds when el rey pulled over the hills and into the infamously dangerous metropolitan traffic .
the toyota had run like a champ , was a pleasure to drive , softening the blows of the rutted patches between culiacan and df , or distrito federal , as the locals referred to mexico city .
hed gotten the contact information of a man valiente , his new patron and sponsor , had known since childhood .
valiente had made a phone call and proposed a relationship that his friend couldnt possibly refuse .
the man owned a pawn shop but hed fallen into leveraging his contacts in the underworld and being a facilitator for extermination work the human kind .
it was a difficult role for him because he was basically a good and decent man , but the money was simply too attractive to turn down for a no risk proposition .
he had three contractors who handled domestic disputes and business disagreements , and he took twenty percent of the contract price to handle the money and vet the clients .
el rey needed someone trustworthy to launder his money and deal with the payments .
if he was going to do this professionally , he needed a front office , so to speak and professional representation .
he could handle sourcing the jobs but he couldnt haul around several million dollars in hundreds and be effective .
he needed a banker and an accountant .
valientes contact seemed ideally suited for the role .
and valiente had warned his friend what he was dealing with , lest he get the bright idea to take el reys money and run for the hills .
in the cartels , if you vouched for someone and made an introduction , and then that someone screwed the person youd introduced , you could expect to be held accountable for your recommendations actions .
valiente had seen more than enough of el reys handiwork in a short period to know he didnt want that coming after him .
the narcotraficante chief had become el reys biggest admirer and had promised to spread the word of his prowess in return for a commitment to never accept a contract on him .
that seemed reasonable to el rey , and valiente was an up and comer in the most powerful cartel on the planet , so as sponsors go , he could do worse .
his plan was to limit his activity to a few hits a year , but to steadily increase the fee he charged as well as the level of difficulty of the sanctions he accepted until he became the highest paid killer in the world .
mexico was the right place for that , given the amount of money flowing through the cartels , although hed heard good things about russia , too .
problem there was that he didnt speak the language .
hed studied english in school and , of course , there was his spanish .
but that was it .
so he wouldnt be doing any work in st. petersburg or vladivostok .
he merged toward the right lane and took an off ramp from the clogged freeway into an even more congested area of the city .
after circling around for half an hour , he eventually located the pawn shop and managed to find a parking spot .
he threw his black duffel bag over his shoulder and made his way two blocks to the store .
the neighborhood was sketchy even by mexico city standards , which was saying a lot , but then again , money lenders of last resort didnt tend to be located in the ritziest areas .
at the glass door to the shop , he noted bars everywhere , providing security against night incursions , as well as a roll up metal awning that would completely seal off the storefront .
with all the bars it seemed like overkill , but el rey liked that it hinted at a man who took precautions , and who over engineered them .
that was a careful man , which is what he needed .
the establishment itself was modest by any measure , which suggested a lack of braggadocio or hubris .
again , strongly positive from el reys position .
he pushed open the entry door and walked into a small , somewhat shabby showroom with a few inexpensive glass cases showcasing the tarnished treasures of the impoverished and downtrodden .
silver infant cups , cheap watches , scarred gold chains , obsolete cameras .
el rey was liking this guys style more and more .
this was the last place in the world he would expect to find a man who handled the affairs of high end contract killers .
nothing about the shop spoke of money or success or high rolling , which were usually hand in hand with cartel related businesses .
this just said boring .
el rey liked boring .
he approached the barred window , which was fabricated out of inch thick bullet proof glass , and pushed the button next to it , listening as the buzzer echoed in the rear , behind the heavy steel door to his right .
he studied the door it was built like a banks , although it was probably heavier by the looks of the four massive hinge plates welded in place .
he rapped a knuckle against the wall next to it at least foot thick reinforced concrete .
a meager enterprise with security like a vault .
interesting .
footsteps approached , and then a small man with a beret and a graying goatee appeared at the window .
yes ?
he asked by way of greeting .
im here for an eleven oclock meeting , el rey said .
ah .
of course .
the steel door buzzed and el rey rushed to grab the handle before it stopped .
he swung it open and noted that hed been correct .
the steel slab was very heavy indeed , and the locking mechanism was industrial grade .
nice door .
mmmm .
two one inch steel plates with a titanium core .
custom made in austria .
cost a bit , but worth it , the little man said .
he extended his hand .
jaime tortora , at your service .
please .
come back to my offices .
would you like anything to drink ?
water ?
coffee ?
beer ?
el rey shook his hand .
no , thank you .
i dont drink coffee or alcohol .
ill follow you .
tortora walked down the dimly lit hallway and opened the door of his office .
the two men entered and tortora gestured to one of the chairs in front of his desk .
he took his seat behind it and leaned forward , both hands on the surface , visible at all times .
el rey noticed this reassuring stance , and nodded almost imperceptibly as he sat , placing the duffle on the chair next to him .
a mutual friend of some distinction called and indicated there was an opportunity for us to help each other , tortora began , then hesitated .
you may speak freely .
i have eavesdropping detection equipment in place , and if you were wired , id know .
i also sweep the office once a week .
vocational paranoia , you could say .
el rey fixed him with a tranquil gaze .
i am looking for someone who can help me act as a back office and clearing system for my payments and due diligence on clients , el rey said .
ah , yes .
well , thats what i do .
i take twenty percent if i source the clients , or ten percent if you do .
i can deal with cash , although thats an additional ten percent right off the top for the bank to handle .
i prefer wire transfers or bearer instruments , and have an extensive infrastructure to accommodate those .
austria and the caymans , with a second set of accounts in panama and lichtenstein .
all owned by dummy front companies out of hong kong or latvia .
tortora reached over and took a sip of water from a glass near his computer monitor .
i can assist in setting up a structure for you , if that is necessary .
my only advice if you intend to do so yourself is to hire a professional .
the money trail is often the weak link .
id be interested in having you set up a mechanism .
i want money to wind up in uruguay or belize .
ive read about setting up companies there , international business companies , where the ownership can be held via bearer shares , which are untraceable , el rey observed .
yes , but there are some problems with that .
id advise a more involved structure , where we first create a trust whose beneficiary is a swiss corporation , and then have the trusts attorney set up the ibc and the bank account .
do you need papers ?
passports ?
identity documents of any kind ?
tortora asked .
now that you mention it , yes .
ill need a spanish passport , a mexican birth certificate and passport , and a third passport , maybe from el salvador or peru .
id like them all in different names and , if possible , legitimately issued not forgeries .
that can be done .
but it will be expensive .
probably a couple of hundred thousand dollars .
it would be way cheaper to have high quality forgeries created , tortora advised , glancing at the young man .
but fakes are not as bullet proof , no pun intended .
the money isnt a concern .
how long will it take ?
for legitimate documents ?
a month or two .
i can get the mexican paperwork faster , so if you have pressing travel plans , figure two weeks for that .
the rest are more complicated , tortora explained .
all right .
get the mexican one as soon as possible .
now lets talk about how this will work .
i have a large sum of cash i need washed so it can be transferred into a bank account once you have the structure set up .
why the ten percent for cash ?
thats what i have to pay to circumvent the anti money laundering laws at the bank .
its the going rate .
how much cash are we talking , anyway ?
tortora asked .
two million dollars , mas o menos .
and likely two hundred fifty thousand per job , couple of times a year .
to start .
tortora didnt blink .
i can handle that .
do you have any questions for me ?
how many other contractors do you handle ?
three .
but smaller scale than what youre doing .
fifty grand here and there .
id like you to drop them .
how much would i need to bring in to replace their income ?
el rey asked .
depends .
will you be sourcing your own clients ?
absolutely .
all youll be doing is handling the money .
ill even collect it most of the time , unless theres a wire transfer , which is doubtful , given my clientele .
tortora considered the question carefully .
one of the issues is that if youre killed , i have lost my business and will have to start over .
tortora said , then quickly punched some numbers into his desktop calculator .
im not planning on getting killed .
nobody does .
but its a risk that needs to be adjusted for .
i think that if we went fifteen percent up to the first million of income per year , then ten for anything above , i could cut my other contractors loose .
but id need to see at least half a million gross per year of income to make it worth my while .
thats a lot of contracts , tortora said .
not to brag , but soon that will only be two contracts a year , and then only one .
so not that many .
the assassin sat back and studied tortoras face .
i accept your proposal .
fifteen of the first million , ten above that .
bank fees to come off the top , pre split .
he lifted the duffel and placed it on the desk .
this is two million five hundred thousand dollars .
take the paperwork money and the fees to create the structure out of it .
what will the structuring run , anyway ?
el rey asked .
not that much .
maybe fifty by the time everythings set up .
fifteen for the company formations , and the rest for lubrication and consultants and attorneys .
then maybe ten grand a year thereafter for filing fees .
okay .
so call it two point two million cash after deducting for that .
minus ten percent for the banks , leaves us at an even two .
ill give you fifty of that for your time , given that you havent done any heavy lifting beyond opening some accounts .
cut your other operators loose within six months .
by then , ill be back and working , el rey instructed .
do you have any questions of me ?
guarantees about the safety of your money ?
our mutual friend must have explained a little .
i know you have an apartment upstairs and a home , with a daughter in university .
i know everything about you .
i can find you wherever you are , no matter how deep you think youve gone , so , no , im not too worried .
then again , youd be stupid to try it , because over the next few years youll make a lot of money as my fee increases .
and it will .
im already at two hundred grand a hit , and that will move to two fifty on the next ones .
el rey wasnt bragging or threatening .
his calm , soft voice was merely stating fact .
tortora appraised him anew .
i believe you .
my friend indicated that youd done the impossible in no time .
and hes not an easy man to impress .
if hes singing your praises , youll have your hands full with work whenever you want it .
they discussed more details , such as names for the passports and logistics of contacting each other , and after an hour , concluded their meeting .
el rey liked the little man .
he was perfect .
avaricious but old enough so he wouldnt be a runner .
morally neutral on the issue of the business , and not squeamish .
a good combination .
the money would all accumulate in accounts only el rey had signature authority over , using his new passports and names , so it would be in no danger once it hit his banks .
as to the cash , he wasnt worried about that disappearing .
there were some things that just werent worth doing , and he got the sense that the pawn shop proprietor had quickly figured out that fucking him over was one of them .
he had a spring in his step as he returned to his toyota , one more problem dealt with .
this was shaping up nicely , perfectly following the plan hed had in mind since he was seventeen .
he would become the highest paid assassin in the world within a few years , famous for meticulously planned sanctions that defied belief .
he would become a sort of miracle worker .
el rey would be a name that cartel bosses used to frighten their kids at night , and it would be synonymous with a ghost , a phantom who could do the impossible .
in a world where nobody got scared , an environment where violence and death was daily currency , there would be something that even the most hardened veterans would fear .
the name of the beast .
el rey .
chapter 11 the jungle was everywhere .
that was el reys impression of costa rica , if anyone were to ask him .
it was everything hed always imagined when he heard the term rain forest , right down to the toucans and monkeys .
and even though everyone spoke spanish it was as different from mexico as he imagined south america would be .
he had arrived in the tiny central american country to learn how to fly .
specifically , how to operate prop planes and helicopters , should he ever need to be able to do so .
rather than resting on his laurels , hed made a personal commitment to continually learn new skills , expanding his abilities as well as the likelihood of survival .
in the end , he hadnt been able to convince the mexican special forces to teach him how to operate a plane , so the first stop after hed gotten his new papers was to find a place off the beaten path where he could master the discipline .
and costa rica was well off any radar while it had a decent amount of infrastructure , even by mexican standards it was backwards , as were its neighbors , nicaragua , el salvador and honduras .
hed considered each of those in turn , but decided on costa rica after researching the alternatives the others were too unstable , with a considerable cartel presence he would rather avoid unless working .
the flight school in the capital city of san jose had been more than willing to teach him everything he wanted to know for certification of fixed wing , and he had clocked almost all the required hours he needed .
helicopters were a different story , but hed been able to find a pilot who was willing to unofficially give him lessons and explain everything about the mechanics of the crafts .
el rey had now been in costa rica for three months and was about ready to get the hell out and back to what he considered civilization .
for his money , san jose couldnt hold a candle to guadalajara or monterrey or mexico city , but it has served its purpose .
one thing he was sure of was that he wouldnt likely be back unless he lost a bet .
he pulled up to the hangar at the edge of the runway and got out of his rental car , and after greeting his flight trainer , they moved to the small cessna 172 prop plane to undertake their pre flight checklist .
el rey was now certified , but he wanted to clock as many hours as possible while he was in central america so he was completely confident in his abilities .
just as they were getting into the cockpit , his cell phone rang , and he excused himself for a moment and took a call .
it was tortora .
our friend called me .
he has an urgent matter for you .
thinks it could be a real opportunity .
how soon can you be in sinaloa ?
tortora asked .
el rey considered the question , eyeing the surrounding airport as he did so .
tomorrow , at the latest .
i have to look at flight schedules .
worst case i can charter a plane .
ill check in later to let you know what my timing looks like .
did he indicate how urgent ?
he didnt go into detail .
said hed prefer to discuss it with you in person .
shall i tell him youre en route ?
tortora asked .
please .
but dont tell him from where .
thats our little secret .
of course not .
call me when you know more , tortora said , and then the line went dead .
el rey returned to the little plane .
sorry , roger , got to cut out .
tell me .
just for the sake of conversation how much would it cost to hire a plane to get me to mexico city if i needed to leave in the next few hours ?
my mother isnt well , el rey explained .
im sorry to hear that .
whats the distance ?
fifteen hundred miles ?
a little less .
more like twelve hundred .
boy .
i dont know .
you want me to make some calls and find out ?
not too many prop planes could make that without setting down at least once .
you care if its a jet or prop ?
not really .
but i need to get going by one oclock on the outside .
el rey checked his watch .
it was nine in the morning .
i know a guy who has that king air over there .
he might be into it .
but it would probably be ten to fifteen grand make the call .
an hour later , and theyd gotten nowhere , so el rey went to the passenger terminal and checked with taca .
they had a five oclock flight that would get him into mexico city a couple of hours later , and then he could get a plane to culiacan in the morning .
he booked it , paying in cash , and returned to his leased condo to pack .
he didnt have much a rucksack with his clothes , thirty thousand dollars in hundreds , and a credit card in the name of one of his companies , with a fifty grand limit .
in his line of work , hed found it paid to travel light .
he set his bag by the door and then retrieved a rag and a bottle of ammonia based cleaner , and began the tedious but necessary process of wiping down every area he might have touched .
the cleanup took an hour and a half , but he had time to kill , and nobody had ever gotten caught by being overly careful .
when he was done , he took a final look around the small condo and nodded , then wiped down the doorknob and deadbolt , twisting it open using the rag , and then repeated the process after closing it .
he sauntered down the stairs to the front foyer and eased the steel and glass entry door open , then dropped the rag into a scarred garbage can at the end of the block .
the flight to mexico city was tiresome , and once he landed he exhaled a sigh of relief .
for all its exotic charms , costa rica hadnt been his cup of tea and he was glad to be back on home turf .
he checked the flight schedules to culiacan and found one that departed at eight a.m. , which would put him in culiacan with time to spare for an afternoon meeting with valiente .
he booked a room at one of the large hotels connected to the airport terminal that catered to business travelers and settled in for the night , preferring to order room service than venture into town .
the next day , he touched down in culiacan and rented a car at the airport .
now that he had a variety of ids it made life much easier .
he could change around who he was whenever he felt the urge , avoiding any chance of there being a pattern in his coming and going .
an admittedly expensive set of precautions , but ultimately worth it to him .
when he arrived at valientes office , the cartel honcho greeted him warmly and invited him to sit .
after some cursory pleasantries were dispensed with , including el reys congratulations on valiente becoming the new regional chief for the sinaloa cartels northern operations altamars former role they got down to business .
valiente slid a grainy black and white photograph of a swarthy man across his desk to el rey , who studied it before looking up at the narcotraficante , his face devoid of expression .
thats german coriente .
known as el chilango .
he used to be one of the ranking members of the jalisco cartel , valiente explained .
el rey waited patiently for more .
he disappeared a year ago , after a contract was put out on him by the head of our sinaloa cartel , don aranas .
the contractor who took the assignment failed to execute him and was never heard from again .
we assume that el chilango stopped him somehow , and extracted information from him on who hired him to do the hit .
shortly afterwards , el chilango disappeared , and it has taken a full year for us to find him , valiente continued .
where is he ?
australia .
he got a chilean passport and moved to sydney , where nobody knows him .
hes hired several mercenaries for security , and bought a wine exportation company to establish residence there .
el rey nodded .
sounds like he got as far away from mexico as you can get , and hes out of the game .
so why go after him ?
not to talk myself out of work , but rather so i understand the motivation , el rey said .
what do you care why ?
we offer a contract , you take it .
thats how it works , no ?
el rey held valientes gaze and shook his head .
if i need to fly halfway around the world to kill someone , i need to know everything .
thats one of my conditions .
otherwise , respectfully , hire someone else .
although it sounds like your last experience with a contractor on this guy didnt work out so well .
so again , tell me , why go after a player whos taken himself off the table and is living on the other end of the planet ?
el rey asked .
valiente initially looked annoyed , but then remembered who he was talking to .
el rey was a dangerous man , even by cartel standards .
not someone you wanted to make an enemy of .
its personal .
the hit is personal .
unfinished business .
personal ?
with aranas ?
what could el chilango have possibly done to bring that upon himself ?
now el rey was genuinely curious .
its a long story .
apparently , the two men knew each other from many years ago and then when sinaloa went to war with the jalisco cartel , things escalated out of control .
that was almost a decade ago , and it went on for years , with heavy casualties on both sides .
theyre still enemies to this day , no ?
el rey asked .
yes .
and theyll always be enemies .
too much blood spilled to ever build bridges .
what happened was that , during the worst of the war , el chilango sent an execution team to take out aranas .
but they botched it .
you can probably guess how that went down .
four killers from veracruz with ak 47s playing cowboys .
anyway , turns out aranas wasnt where they were told he would be , so when they shot up the car he was supposed to be traveling in , it wasnt him .
it was his twelve year old daughter , imelda , on her way to ballet class .
valiente paused to allow that to sink in .
she was apparently a rare talent .
and beautiful .
they tell me she lived for almost a month on machines before the injuries were too much for her .
so its personal .
every day el chilango breathes is an affront to aranas , and he wants the man erased .
which brings us to why you are here , gracing our town with your presence .
the assassin nodded .
what are the details ?
the most important thing to understand is that aranas doesnt just want a hit .
he wants el chilango to suffer .
a lot .
i had mentioned to him how adept youve been in handling our transactions , and he authorized me to reach out to you .
so here i am .
and now , here are you as well .
whats the contract price ?
el rey was curious how badly they wanted him dead .
two hundred fifty thousand dollars .
el rey shook his head , holding valientes gaze .
too low for the risk involved .
a foreign country , likely many unusual expenses , a police force that cant be bought , foreign mercenariesi dont mean to sound like an ingrate , but that wont cover it , el rey explained .
valiente sat back , exasperated .
then whats the right number for you to take this on ?
i know i can get any of a dozen men who would jump at doing this for fifty .
you tried that once .
these arent the kinds of situation where you look to save money .
if you want the best and you want a guaranteed result , you will pay more than hiring someone who will try , and fail .
sounds like if you blow it one more time , hell disappear on you for good .
im not sure id want to have to deliver that news to don aranas .
el rey studied a point on the wall for a few moments .
my number is three hundred thousand .
done .
plus expenses , which will probably come to another fifty to a hundred .
i wont know until i get over there and see the lay of the land .
valientes eyes narrowed to slits .
fair enough .
and ill need specialized gear once im in country , so youll have to find a local who can get hard to find items for me .
i wont know what they are until im on the ground , but it could be specialized weapons , or explosives , or gas .
dont know .
do you have any contacts there ?
el rey asked .
theres nowhere in the world we dont have contacts .
ill find someone .
valiente smiled .
is there anything else ?
i expect you to pay for the travel , too .
ill bet first class tickets to sydney arent going to be cheap .
el rey rose to his feet .
i can leave tomorrow .
ill need half the money in advance , as usual , and an atm card set up so i can withdraw up to a hundred thousand dollars on it from anywhere in the world .
that way i can pull money out as necessary .
el rey paused , thinking .
no , better yet , give me fifty in cash , and fifty on an atm .
do you have a package on him ?
valiente pushed a manila envelope across the table .
el rey opened the top , glanced at the contents and nodded .
valiente reached below his desk and retrieved a slim briefcase .
heres two hundred and fifty , cash .
call that two for you , and fifty for expenses .
ill have a card for you within a few days and will send it to you by dhl .
that way youll have it within a week , on the outside .
my guess is youll want to spend some time lining things up before you do this .
am i right ?
el rey ignored the question .
so you would have paid five hundred ?
we think very highly of your talents .
but it sounds like youll wind up costing four by the time this is done , so you can make it up on the next one .
and if you pull this off for aranas , there will be as many next ones as you want .
valiente grinned .
its only money , right ?
you have a point .
ill look into hotels and flights .
timeframe for the hit ?
if you can bring it in within ten days that will do .
shouldnt be an issue , if hes only got a couple of bodyguards .
do you have dossiers on them ?
el rey asked .
its in there .
ones south african , the other british who saw a tour in afghanistan .
not pushovers , thats for sure .
they all die the same .
too true .
you need anything else from my end ?
just get in touch with someone who can get me whatever i need in australia .
ill get a cell phone once im there and touch base for the contact info .
el rey stood , and hefted the briefcase .
hate to leave a hundred on the table , but it is what it is .
i have a feeling if you make it ugly enough for el chilango , theres a chance of a bonus .
aranas isnt that price sensitive .
tell me .
does he have any other children ?
el rey asked .
valiente looked at him strangely .
i think hes got two sons .
im not sure , though .
we arent that close , valiente admitted .
his only daughter .
no , i imagine hes not price sensitive at all .
he held up the briefcase and moved towards the door , hesitating before he left .
when he turned to face valiente a final time , even the hardened cartel drug lords stomach lurched when el rey offered a diminutive smirk .
ill get creative .
chapter 12 sydney was unlike any place el rey had ever been .
from the time he got off the plane , his qantas first class experience a welcome luxury on the fifteen hour flight from los angeles , he was struck by how clean everything was .
it was as if someone had scrubbed every surface right before he got there but the entire town , as far as he could see wandering around the downtown area , was like that .
he took a cab from the airport to his hotel a few blocks from sydney harbor and stowed his gear , locking his cash in the hotel room safe and unpacking his hygiene kit .
after a few hours of sleep to get adjusted to the seven hour time difference , he set out to explore the town so hed understand the layout .
a four minute walk to the ferry terminal at circular quay quickly convinced him that the town was filled with tourists , so one more from mexico wouldnt stick out , which had been one of his fears .
he never wanted to be memorable anywhere he went but there would be no such problem here judging by the host of accents and languages he heard as he moved along the waterfront from the quaint shopping area called the rocks toward the opera house .
el rey approached the iconic theater , which sat on a point at the waters edge , its aggressive shape unmistakable from almost every photo and postcard hed seen .
he kept walking towards the ocean and soon found himself in a verdant , well groomed park , where he passed young lovers reposing on the grass , stealing moments together after school .
the weather was the equivalent of late autumn in australia , the seasons being reversed from the northern hemisphere , but it was still relatively mild and sunnier than hed expected .
and so clean .
being used to mexico , sydney was a shock to his system in that it was so aseptic .
even as he made his way out of the park into an area that was supposedly seedier , it was as nice as some of the best neighborhoods back home .
he stopped at a long pier with a sign out front that announced it as finger wharf and looked in at a hotel built over the harbor the w sydney and felt immediately comfortable in the dimly lit , soothing , minimalistic contemporary lobby .
it was deserted , save for a young woman working behind the desk and , based on the ambience and the solitary location , he decided right then and there that hed be moving to the w the following day .
walking away from the harbor , he explored the area inland from the hotel .
it quickly degraded into a run down industrial district with warehouses alongside shabby lower income housing .
a few of the buildings looked as though they were about to undergo renovation but much of the area was desolate and he found himself the only person on the streets mid afternoon on a weekday .
he made a mental note this was perfect for what he had in mind .
hed begun the outlines of a rough plan on the plane , purely conceptual , but if everything panned out it could work well .
after another hour meandering the streets adjacent to the waterfront he made his way back to the hotel , where he hailed a cab and asked the driver to drop him two streets away from the address where el chilango now lived .
they drove into an upscale area fifteen minutes from the city center , and the cab stopped in front of a small market a block from the harbor .
the neighborhood was eclectic , exhibiting a hodgepodge of architectural styles coexisting in a dissonant manner .
everything from elegant multi story turn of the century victorian mansions to post modern contemporary could be found .
it was certainly a prosperous area , judging by the cars and the trim on the houses .
el rey knew that waterfront homes anywhere in the world were always the most expensive he figured that australia would be no different .
he bought a bottle of water from the bored shopkeeper and then strolled towards the targets address , relieved to find that the sidewalks were empty .
when he reached the t junction that dead ended into the target street he deliberately avoided el chilangos house , preferring to make a left on the street that ran along the waterfront homes rather than a right .
he knew that the former cartel chiefs home was four down on the right from the intersection where he made the turn , and he didnt really need to see much more than he did by glancing down the street as though he was a stray sightseer whod wandered into the area .
he knew from the report hed read on the plane that it was a two story , five bedroom waterfront home on a double lot , with security lighting at night activated by motion sensors on the sides of the house , as well as the street .
comfortable with the feel of the neighborhood , he walked six blocks until he came to a major artery , and had a coffee shop call him a taxi while he enjoyed a cup of pungent green tea .
once back at his hotel , he did a quick calculation of the time back home before going downstairs to ask the concierge where he could get a cell phone .
the pert young woman directed him four blocks away , and soon he was paying for the latest model nokia with a three month prepaid service plan .
as soon as it was activated , he fished a matchbook out of his pocket and dialed the country code and phone number hed jotted down .
valientes voice answered .
im here .
do you have anything for me on a local contact ?
el rey asked .
valiente gave him a sydney cell number .
youll want to ask for victor , valiente said , then terminated the call , there being nothing more to discuss .
he did as instructed , and a gravelly , australian voice answered .
el rey told the man he was from out of town , and used valientes name by way of entre .
they arranged to meet an hour later at a caf immediately in front of the ferry terminal .
victor would be wearing an orange t shirt with a blue windbreaker and tan cargo pants .
el rey watched from his vantage point across the busy common as a man dressed as described entered the caf and sat down by the window .
after five minutes of scanning the quay to ensure there was no surveillance , el rey strolled in and took a seat opposite him .
victor was in his mid forties and rail thin , with a heavily lined , sun damaged face boasting the perennial flush of the habitual hard drinker , spectacularly crooked teeth , and thatches of salt and pepper hair pointing in all directions .
he looked like nothing so much as an absentminded professor with a boozing problem .
gday , mate .
names victor .
i was told to give yah whatever yah needed , and mums the word , victor started .
el rey couldnt really make out what the man was saying , so instead began speaking in his quiet , calm voice .
his english was passable from years of study , but still heavily accented with spanish inflection .
i will need a boat with a captain tomorrow to take me around the harbor so i can look over some places .
i have also made a list of items i will require .
and i think ive found an area with some industrial space you can rent inexpensively .
if not , i need a small warehouse in a quiet neighborhood where it will have no neighbors , good for privacy , yes ?
el rey handed him the neatly hand written note with his requirements .
victor studied it , and nodded .
no worries , mate .
good as done but itll run yah dear .
my guess is twenty grand american at least , plus the boat tour .
how many rounds you need for the rifle and the pistol ?
victor asked .
a hundred for the rifle and its magazines , and fifty for the pistol and its spares .
will the night vision equipment be a problem ?
mate , none of its a problem .
just a matter of money .
give me two days and ill have the whole lot sorted , victor assured him .
now in the meantime , what about yerself ?
need any company ?
interested in the ladies ?
seeing the vacant expression on the assassins face and intuiting a lack of interest , he tried again .
or maybe the boys ?
a little cage aux follees , if yah catch my meaning ?
whatever yer flavor , victors the man just the items on the list , some warehouse space with no neighbors and a boat with a captain .
nothing fancy .
something that will blend in .
id like to use it tomorrow for around four hours .
and make sure its got some fishing equipment onboard .
ill call you in the morning .
will that work for you ?
el rey asked , ignoring victors offer .
victor assured him that it would , and they quickly parted ways , victor to procure the necessary hardware and el rey to have an early dinner and get some sleep .
the following day , victor had made arrangements for a cabin cruiser to pick el rey up at the pier marina that hosted the w hotel and the adjacent condominiums and restaurants .
he checked out of his current hotel and walked over to the w , taking a waterfront room for a week on the third floor .
once hed unpacked , he grabbed a quick bite downstairs before heading out to meet the boat , a heavy set of binoculars around his neck .
it was a thirty eight foot riviera sports fisherman with twin diesel engines , and soon they were cutting through the chop at a fair clip .
el rey gave the captain gps coordinates for the portion of the harbor he wanted to anchor in and fish .
the man looked at him as though he was crazy .
wont catch much there but muck suckers , mate , he advised .
thats okay .
i just like being on the water , enjoying the scenery and looking at all the beautiful houses , el rey explained .
they motored to the designated spot and dropped anchor .
the captain dutifully got out two light tackle salt water fishing rods and a bag of frozen bait .
el rey played along and allowed the man to drop a line into the water for him , then went inside the salon , where the heavily tinted windows blocked anyone from seeing in .
he raised his binoculars and scanned the house , noting the neighbors homes , searching for anything that could afford him an advantage .
he paid special attention to the shore area and the distances between the homes , which wasnt much .
fortunately , el chilango had built tall walls on either side for security and privacy , so he wouldnt have to deal with neighbor issues once inside .
as they sat there , bobbing in the wake of the boats cruising past them , he noted that there were three security men nosing around , not just the one the report would have led him to believe .
so either the house had received some sort of warning , or the surveillance had been sloppy .
instead of a day man and a night one , there were six total three and three .
they spent two hours at anchor , the boat rocking gently , with el rey mainly watching the house .
by lunchtime , hed seen enough .
the target had been visible several times in his living room and bedroom , and it would have been a cinch to take him out with a single shot .
unfortunately , that wasnt what he was being paid to do .
reconciling himself to the unpleasant reality that hed have to do this the hard way , he announced to the captain that it was time to leave .
just then one of the two rods screamed as line tore off the reel the skipper ran to tighten the drag .
he set the hook and then offered the pole to el rey , who shook his head he had no interest in trying to fight the fish .
after a few moments the line went limp when the captain reeled it in , the leader had been bitten through .
probably a shark , he said .
are there a lot of them around here ?
el rey asked , curious .
in the harbor , yah get some sand sharks and a few larger ones .
out in the ocean , theres great whites , ya know .
frightful big buggers .
one of em gets ya , yer days pretty much ruined .
dont want to mess with one of those , ill tell yah , he warned .
no .
id imagine not .
that evening , el rey had a phone discussion with victor , and they arranged a meeting for the next day to look over the industrial space hed gotten and inventory the hardware .
in the morning , a blue ford sedan pulled to the curb by the original hotel el rey had stayed at .
victor grinned from behind the wheel , inviting him to get in .
soon they were motoring to the deserted area near the w , and after a few turns , they arrived at a bleak strip of old industrial warehouses .
victor got out and opened one of the heavy steel doors and they stepped into a dilapidated twenty by forty brick space that reeked of stale air and urine .
el rey tried the lights two fluorescent bulbs flickered above as if struggling to stay lit , and then with a flash , suddenly illuminated .
the assassin studied the shabby interior , his arms crossed , and then nodded .
this will do .
glancing around the dank room a final time , el rey dictated an additional list of items hed need , based on his surveillance of the target and his appraisal of his new workspace .
victor scribbled furiously in a small notebook as el rey ticked off the requirements .
finished , they eyed the overhead steel beams that supported the roof , before el rey made two more requests .
victor nodded , and assured him that within forty eight hours he would have the space outfitted , and then went to the car and removed a long duffle with the requested hardware and brought it inside the space .
el rey inspected each item carefully and nodded in approval .
perhaps victor resembled a buffoon , but hed gotten everything right on the first try .
that was good .
he hoped victor did as well on the second round of stuff .
none of it was that specialized , so he was confident the man would be able to get it all .
three days later , they returned to the warehouse .
it had been completely transformed .
el rey was impressed .
hed spent parts of the last few days in the targets neighborhood , driving around with victor , studying the layout , and had a watcher confirm the number of guards at night , as well .
el chilango rarely left the house , so whatever his wine business was , you could apparently run it from home .
that would make things somewhat harder it would be far easier to stage something while a target was in transit , but you played the cards you were dealt , and el rey was confident .
tomorrow would be show time , and he would either justify the considerable money hed been spending over the course of his antipodean vacation or die trying .
chapter 13 stiff gusts of wind blew through the tall oak trees near the waters edge , occasionally eliciting a moaning lament at the airs harmonic passage through the branches .
it was a partially cloudy night with only a sliver of a moon peeking through the overcast .
the lights from the surrounding homes on the harbor twinkled and danced as the roiling surface of the water reflected them up , moving in time with the swell from the harbor mouth as it surged against the outcropping shore of point piper , as the upscale neighborhood was called a nub of land thrusting into the water , creating double bay on one side and rose bay on the other .
three tough looking guards prowled the grounds of the targets home , two stationed front and back , with one circulating around .
it was a lot of security for a relatively modest home in a safe area .
the neighbors had to wonder who the occupant was .
the men did their best to appear discreet but they were obviously trained killers with military bearings and the tell tale bulges of handguns under their windbreaker jackets .
this was the easiest duty any of them had ever had .
endless hours of nothing guarding a nobody from imagined threats that never materialized .
theyd gotten complacent over the nine months theyd been working the gig , which was understandable given the uneventful nature of the job .
but if it made the man happy , it was his money to spend as he liked and they werent going to complain .
for fifteen thousand american dollars a month apiece , theyd put on a trapeze performance or ride unicycles on a tightrope every evening if thats what their patron wanted .
it was quiet at one a.m. on a weeknight , with very few cars winding their way along the new south head road that tracked the coastline .
sydneys suburbs were asleep , the citizenry enjoying its well deserved rest in the privileged enclave .
a small black inflatable dinghy moved towards the shore , slicing through the small swells as it made its silent way through the night .
a hundred yards off the point , the operator dropped an anchor into the water before cutting the little electric motor .
he sat , rising and falling with the waves , getting a sense for the amplitude and acclimating himself .
the waterside of the targets home glimmered through the luminescent green of the night vision scope .
el rey could easily make out the sentry , sitting on the rear deck , smoking a cigarette and reading a book .
very unprofessional , but then again , given that the biggest threat the security team thought they were likely to encounter was an enraged koala on a eucalyptus fueled rampage , he could appreciate their lackadaisical attitude .
it would be the last mistake any of them ever made .
but still , it was understandable .
the crosshairs of the modified m4 assault rifles night scope bounced up and down from the waves , the weapon made ungainly from the additional weight of the long flash suppressing silencer affixed to the barrels end .
the surface movement would decrease the likely accuracy , but hed spent a few hours in a rural area out of town sighting it in with victor yesterday for exactly the required distance and the margin of error was acceptable down to a variance of two inches .
an additional factor would be the brisk breeze , and he automatically made a mental adjustment for it .
it was blowing from the harbor mouth toward the point at his back , so shouldnt have a huge effect .
hed spent the prior morning loading twenty shells with a special blend of a more powerful charge to compensate for the velocity difference the silencer introduced , which had proved worthwhile when he was sighting it in .
the higher powered payload attenuated any distortion introduced by the device .
hed flattened the tips of each slug a little and carved an x into the top before filling the indentations with solder and filing them so there would be no danger of a jam .
nothing could ruin a well planned assault like a faultily loading weapon , and so hed spent hours on the task before taking the gun out and putting it through its paces .
he watched as the roaming sentry approached the seated guard , presumably to ask for a cigarette , because the seated man reached into his breast pocket and offered him one from his pack .
el rey regarded the two sentries through the scope , taking care to close his eyes while the seated man lit the others smoke .
it wouldnt do to ruin his night vision with the matchs flare .
as the pair chatted lazily on the rear stone patio of the darkened house , el rey gently squeezed the trigger .
the standing man crumpled next to the seated guard , his chest exploding outward and onto his stunned partner the fragmented slug having torn through his back , the shards exiting his front along with chunks of his pulmonary system and heart .
el rey caressed the trigger again , gently , as a lover might the receptive lips of his mate , and the seated mans throat blew onto the heavy stucco houses rear faade .
that left the guard in front , who would be getting a little apprehensive within a few minutes when the roaming man didnt return on his appointed rounds .
el rey waited patiently for the inevitable , and was rewarded after seven minutes by the sight of the third sentry rounding the corner of the house .
another well placed shot took him down before he could draw his weapon .
the assassin checked his watch and smiled to himself in just ten minutes , the threat from the security force had been neutralized .
he watched the grisly tableau for a few moments to ensure nobody was moving , then placed the rifle in the bottom of the boat before shrugging into a scuba harness .
he double checked the waterproof bag for the cell phone and two pistols before propelling himself backwards with a dull splash into the cold water of the bay .
it took him three minutes to swim the distance , and when he pulled himself onto the shallow beach in front of the house , he paused to unclasp the tank and remove the scuba rig , dropping it where he stood on the sand , along with his flippers .
they , like the boat , would be recovered later that night by victors clean up men , so he wasnt worried about leaving any traces .
he padded in his neoprene dive booties to the grass that separated the patio from the beach and extracted a silenced beretta 92fs pistol from the bag .
quickly gliding to where the corpses lay , he put a muffled slug into each mans head , purely out of professional diligence .
there was nothing more disruptive to a well planned operation than a wounded man with a gun exhibiting second wind heroics .
the niggling housekeeping chores concluded , el rey studied the locking mechanism of the rear pocket doors before fishing out a foot long stainless steel strip that looked much like a ruler , which is what in fact it was , albeit modified with a jagged hook ground out of one end .
he slid it carefully through the center section , and with an abrupt pull , opened the lock .
back into the bag it went , and he fished out the second pistol an odd looking gas powered gun that fired a horse tranquilizer dart .
the house blueprints victor had sourced from the building department were still fresh in his mind as he stealthily ascended the stairs to where he knew the master bedroom was located .
the neoprene soles of his booties made his steps silent a fortunate by product of his unfashionable outfit .
as he drew nearer to the partially opened master bedroom door , his ears pricked up , listening for any tell tale warning signs .
satisfied that the house was still , he pushed the door open , only to be rewarded with a creak from the hinges , corroded by the salt air .
the figure on the bed stirred at the sound and then lunged for the dresser .
el rey fired the dart gun left handed at him the dart missed by a scant few inches and embedded itself into the pillow .
the target swung around at him with a silenced pistol and began firing even as el rey made a split second judgment call and charged him rather than shooting him .
he ignored the white hot stab of pain that lanced through his upper leg as he hurled himself through the air at the prone , firing el chilango , and within a heartbeat had dislodged the gun and was grappling with his left hand for the dart as he slammed his beretta butt into the mans head with his right .
the struggle was over in a matter of seconds , and the former cartel boss slumped into the mattress as the darts soporific venom , stabbed into the side of his neck , found its way into his bloodstream .
el rey lay still on top of the target for a few moments , assessing the throbbing pain from his thigh .
he felt blood seeping from the wound but it wasnt spurting , which meant the projectile hadnt hit an artery .
still , it was bad , and the pain was significant .
after looking around the room , he rose and limped to the master closet and flicked on the light .
his eyes scanned the rows of neatly hanging clothes until they alighted on a bathrobe with a sash for cinching the waist .
he pulled the fabric strip loose , then pulled drawers open until he found some white cotton undershirts , all folded in neat little parcels .
he grabbed one and tied it in place using the sash , studying the makeshift bandage with acerbic satisfaction .
it would do until he could get medical attention .
he returned to the dark bedroom and reached into the waterproof bag dangling from his dive belt to retrieve the cell phone .
peering at the targets inert form on the bed , he pressed a speed dial number .
victors voice answered .
front door .
two minutes .
ive been hit , so ill need a medic as soon as possible , el rey whispered .
hit ?
how bad ?
small caliber pistol clipped me in the leg .
be here in two minutes , and send the cleanup crew to get the gear and the boat .
ill have the lads push the bodies into the bay as well , if yah dont mind , victor suggested .
no worries , el rey answered , in the ubiquitous manner hed heard used countless times by the locals since his arrival .
gimping over to the bed , he lifted el chilango by both arms and dragged him roughly into the hall and then down the stairs .
the man would be out cold for two hours , he knew , and when he awoke his head would feel like someone had hammered it with a board , which wasnt far from the truth , given the gashes the pistol had left , the blood already coagulating and crusting where it had streamed down his face .
on the ground floor , he slid the inert body to the front entrance foyer and watched through the side window for the vehicle .
twenty seconds later , he saw an outline pull up .
he swung the door open , to be greeted by the sight of victor trotting from the black delivery van theyd arranged for the evenings festivities .
he took a hard look at el rey , standing in the doorway with blood oozing through the t shirt affixed to his leg , and then wordlessly went to el chilango and began dragging him to the back of the van .
el rey limped over , helped get the target into the back , and climbed in after him .
get me a doctor .
i think the bullet passed clean through , but i need to get cauterized and stitched up , he instructed .
ive got a call in .
should hear back any minute .
lets do that before we hit the warehouse , shall we ?
i can secure our friend here so if he wakes up in the interim he cant get up to any mischief , victor said .
good .
lets go .
victor closed the back doors and ran around to the drivers seat .
in the blink of an eye they were headed down the carefully manicured street , bound for the main road .
victor was just turning onto the larger artery when his cell rang .
yeah .
i need it now .
ten minutes out , maybe fifteen .
your shop ?
no worries , victor said , and hung up .
he leaned towards the rear compartment .
well swing by his office .
hes pretty good for this kinda thing , victor assured el rey .
they drove through sydney until they reached a rough looking section , the buildings shabby and tattooed with graffiti .
victor pulled to the curb in front of a small storefront featuring photos of yellow labrador puppies bounding about in a grassy meadow .
a short , bald , overweight man stood in the doorway , fumbling for keys to open it .
el rey looked up when victor eased the rear van doors open and gingerly slid himself out and onto the sidewalk , waving off the unspoken offer of assistance .
he looked at the little man and then at the shop window , then glared at victor .
a veterinarian ?
he whispered .
blokes top shelf .
have you running marathons in no time .
does all my sensitive jobs .
no worries , mate .
nigel , come over and lets get our man here inside , victor called out .
i can make it .
lets just get this over with , el rey hissed through clenched teeth .
he limped to the door , which nigel had finally opened after locating the correct key .
names nigel .
doctor nigel to you , he said , offering his hand .
im shot in the leg .
lets clean it and sew it up , el rey said , moving inside .
they walked to the back of the shop , where there was a small exam room with a stainless steel table in the center .
nigel flicked on the lights while victor returned to the van to shackle their captive .
best get you up on the table , then .
lets see what weve got here , nigel said , donning a disposable surgical apron and mask .
he turned to where el rey now lay and peered at the wound .
ill have to cut away your party dress , if you can deal with the loss .
do what you have to do .
nigel expertly untied the dressing and snipped away the neoprene , cutting the entire wetsuit leg off just below the groin and pulling it off .
blood seeped slowly from the holes on both sides of el reys thigh .
nigel moved to the medicine cabinet , filled a syringe with novocain and injected it carefully on the edges of the wound , finishing by squirting some directly in .
the pain receded , replaced by sweet numbness .
nigel swabbed the bullet hole and then used a pair of forceps to examine it .
you got lucky .
missed the bone , and nothing major hit other than muscle .
itll smart for a bit , but i can stitch you up and youll be a new man in no time , he assured el rey .
the slug passed clean through so ill just dump some antiseptic in , give you some antibiotics , some orange juice , and do a bit of sewing .
job done , mate .
give me two more syringes of the anesthetic , too .
i need to do some more work tonight , and its helping .
too right , then .
couple of sticks of feel good to go .
can do .
now lets close you , shall we ?
fifteen minutes later , the wound had been tended .
nigel sprayed both stitched areas with a metallic silver spray and stood back to admire his handiwork .
el rey sat up and began drinking a bottle of orange juice nigel had brought him .
the vet handed him two bottles of pills and two full syringes .
that theres iron , for rebuilding your red blood cells , and thats doxycycline .
take one every eight hours for ten days .
the numbing juice should be good for an hour or two each go .
id remember to use alcohol to sterilize the area before you inject , and lose the syringe after using it once .
dont want to introduce any more germs than you need to , right ?
now , if youll take down your suit , i need to give you a shot in the bum so you dont die of sepsis .
el rey pulled down the zipper at the front of his neck and obliged .
the injection in his ass hurt almost as much as the gunshot had .
the pain subsided after thirty seconds , and he realized it was hot in the suit , so he left it unzipped when he pulled it back up .
are we done ?
victor asked , coming back in after eavesdropping on the discussion .
yep .
he should rest for a few days .
call me if theres any complications , like high fever or obvious signs of infection .
nigel gave a wan smile .
he fixed el rey with a good natured gaze , his eyes twinkling with merriment .
youll have a little pucker there , once you heal , to show the ladies .
cut out the stitches in seven days .
could do it in four , but sevens better if youre going to be walking around on it , which i imagine you will .
thanks , doc .
youre a dream , victor said , shaking nigels hand .
el rey silently walked out of the room towards the front of the store , anxious to deliver his captive to the warehouse and fulfill his contract .
he was ready to get to work .
chapter 14 outside the warehouse , the streets were empty , save for a mottled , scrawny cat nosing its way down the sidewalk in search of edible bounty .
it paused at a rubbish container thirty yards from the sliding metal door , sniffing for anything to feed on .
it looked up , startled by the van swinging round the corner , and quickly darted off in search of safer pickings .
victor got out of the van and slid the door open before driving inside .
he killed the engine , then returned to the door to close it .
el rey stopped him .
lets get him out of the back , and ill take it from here .
ill call you when im done .
victor eyed him .
its your party .
you can play whatever music yah like , he said , strolling to the rear of the van and opening the doors .
el chilango lay , still unconscious , with duct tape over his mouth , his legs bound with it and his wrists cuffed together in front of him .
victor rooted around in his pocket and wordlessly handed el rey the key to the cuffs .
they dragged the ex cartel chief out and dumped him unceremoniously onto the floor .
victor took a quick scan of the workspace .
everything yah asked for is here .
theres some clothes , the sony , and all the rest .
he grinned , looking cadaverous under the harsh fluorescent lighting .
just ring me , and ill be by in ten .
i hafta go attend to making sure the clean up boys did their job and didnt miss anything .
good luck , mate , he said , then climbed into the drivers seat and started the van .
it swung back out onto the street , and el rey closed the large door behind it , latching it in place so they wouldnt be disturbed .
he took a good look at his prisoner and hobbled to the table in the corner , unfolding the clothes hed left there before changing into them .
once he was done , he studied the items scattered around the table and moved to a wickedly sharp combat knife and a pair of surgical scissors .
hed set the camera up later .
he wanted to get everything right for his performance art debut , and he had a very specific idea about how his project would begin .
el chilango came to with a start and instantly began shivering as he registered the cold cement floor against his naked body .
he shook his head in an effort to clear it , tried to move his arms and legs .
it was no good .
hed been bound .
out of the periphery of his vision , he made out movement , and he craned his neck to see what fresh hell hed fallen into .
a young latino man stepped into view .
i see the smelling salts worked .
how are you feeling ?
el rey asked in spanish .
what are you doing ?
what do you want ?
money ?
i have a lot of it , el chilango said .
im glad to hear that .
hopefully you have a current will , too .
it would be a shame if it all went to waste , no ?
el chilango grimaced .
i can make you rich .
anything you want , i can give you .
thats an attractive offer .
really .
its not every day someone offers to make all my dreams come true , el rey mused , walking over to a tripod where a small video camera was positioned .
he looked through the screen and adjusted the height a little and then , satisfied , pulled a balaclava from his pocket and pulled the knit mask over his head .
he depressed the record button and verified that it was operating correctly before moving back to el chilango .
what the fuck are you doing ?
did you hear me ?
i can give you any amount of money you want .
any .
a million dollars .
five million .
ten .
anything .
just say the number and i can make it so el chilango was panicking after seeing the mask he realized what was happening .
please .
you dont have to do this .
i can make you rich for life his protestations were cut off by the clanking of chain feeding through an overhead electric winch mounted to one of the crossbeams .
the motor whined , and he felt pressure on his ankles as it slowly started lifting him off the floor .
oh god , no .
please .
name a number .
anything once he was suspended upside down , he began shrieking and howling in stark fear , squirming and struggling in a futile effort to get free .
the motor stopped when his head was three feet off the floor .
he spun gently in a circle from his efforts , slowly returning to the central position , his face looking in fear at the camera .
el rey checked the image through the viewfinder one last time and nodded , satisfied with the composition .
its so hard to create an interesting film .
sustaining the drama , capturing the pathos , making the audience feel like theyre involved , el rey lamented .
let me down .
you dont have to do this .
please , the cartel boss whimpered , saliva flecking from his mouth with every word .
el rey moved to the table and donned a clear plastic raincoat , taking care to snap up the front of it .
when he turned to face el chilango , he looked at his watch and ignited the tip of the welding torch he held in one hand with the long handed fireplace lighter he held in the other .
el chilangos eyes grew wide .
so you can give me any amount of money i want ?
el rey asked .
yes .
anything .
youll be rich .
i can make you rich .
millions , he pleaded , beginning to cry as he saw the blue flame and understood the implications of the camera and his complete nudity .
tell me .
what does it cost to bring a twelve year old ballerina back to life ?
how much is a little girls life worth ?
whats the going rate ?
el chilango struggled to process the question , to make sense of what was being asked , and then awareness dawned on him .
nooooooooo urine streamed down his bare chest as he lost control of his bodily functions out of raw terror .
el rey set the torch on the table , pushing the surgical rotary saw aside to make room , and picked up a red suede muzzle designed to keep victims silent that victor had gotten from a bondage store .
with a final glance at his victim , he approached el chilango , humming a song hed heard that morning .
waltzing matilda .
for whatever reason it had stayed with him , the melody catchy in an odd way .
shortly thereafter he began his first film appearance in earnest .
three hours later , victors phone rang .
its done .
dispose of the remains and hose down the shop .
thanks for everything , el rey said , before hanging up .
hed settled up with victor earlier , so there were no worries in that respect .
he studied the three small video cassettes and labeled them one through three with a fine tip marker , then slipped them into his pocket before turning off the work area lights .
he was glad he wouldnt have to clean up after the mess it was all hed been able to do to avoid getting soaked with blood in the end .
the dismemberment and cauterization had been gratuitous , but then again his little cinematic epic was intended for a very specific audience .
he suspected what it lacked in finesse would be made up by the subject matter .
hed stretched things out as long as they would go and , fortunately , el chilango had been healthy and strong .
it was amazing the amount of abuse the human body could take and still keep functioning .
still , when all was said and done , nothing lasted forever .
el rey limped down the street , still humming , his leg starting to throb but still largely numb from the two injections .
hed get out of town in the late morning and be back home within twenty hours of taking off , with any luck at all .
a few minutes later , he saw the lights of his hotel and exhaled with relief at the thought of a few hours of rest .
it had been a long day .
the qantas first class lounge was mostly empty so el rey had the area he was sitting in all to himself .
he nibbled on some cashews and drank some more orange juice while gazing through the window at the huge airplanes landing as he waited for his flight to be called .
his leg hurt like hell , but hed be fine .
he didnt want to take any pain medicine but reconciled to perhaps availing himself of the expensive free alcohol that flowed like water in the first class cabin .
it wasnt like he would need to be in total control while thirty nine thousand feet over the pacific ocean .
it would be safe to violate his prohibition against alcohol in cases of emergency .
it was , after all , for legitimate medicinal reasons .
fortunately , his seat pod folded flat into a bed , so he would be able to sleep for much of the way if he had any luck at all .
the trip over had been relatively smooth and he was hopeful that it would be equally uneventful on the return across the pacific as well .
his english was more than good enough to follow the dialogue in the in flight films , so he could catch a movie or two while waiting to drift off .
he never watched tv or movies back home , so it was a guilty pleasure he planned to indulge while aloft .
the el chilango contract would be the last of the year for him .
he wanted to recuperate from the shooting , and also not be overly available to any of the cartels preferring to select the assignments he accepted with care .
he wouldnt get to the point where he could command millions for a hit by being open to every job thrown his way .
he intended to only take the truly challenging sanctions , thereby creating a reputation as a man who could do the impossible the court of last resort when only the best would do .
that would take as much stagecraft and pomp as it would competent execution .
everything in the end was a performance , and if he managed his career correctly he would soon be the star of center stage when it came to headline making assassinations .
the loudspeaker announced his flight and an attractive young redheaded australian woman came to assist him with the wheelchair that sat waiting in a corner .
hed told the airline that he was disabled , a diving accident , and the staff had been more than accommodating .
as the perky airline worker pushed him to the gate , he again remarked at how clean everything was in sydney .
it wasnt home , of course , but australia certainly had its charms .
he could understand the appeal as a retirement destination , although for the life of him he couldnt figure out what the people were saying half the time .
once onboard , he stowed his overnight bag and settled in for the long journey ahead .
he had booked a seat at the very front of the 747 , with nobody in front of him , and he hoped the section would be only a third full , as it had been on the way over .
eventually the door closed and he saw , with satisfaction , that nobody else was in his row .
thankfully , hed be left in peace .
el rey plugged his headphones into the center console and adjusted the channel to the classical station , then thumbed through the onboard magazine to see what had been selected for his viewing pleasure by the attentive entertainment concierge at qantas .
a grinning stewardess came down the aisle and offered him a glass of veuve clicquot champagne , which he gratefully accepted while returning the womans smile .
she brought it promptly , along with a porcelain bowl of warm , mixed nuts , and reminded him to simply ask if he had any other requests or needs .
he leaned back in his seat with a weary sigh as he sipped the bubbly ambrosia from the glass flute , and peered through the window while the plane backed away from the gate .
shaking out an iron pill and antibiotic , he washed them down with the last of the elixir , and before long the massive aircraft was lumbering down the runway and up into the cold morning light .
excerpt from king of swords a thriller by russell blake 2011 copyright 2011 by russell blake all rights reserved .
no part of this book may be used , reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means , electronic or mechanical , including photocopying , recording , or by any information storage or retrieval system , without the written permission of the publisher , except where permitted by law , or in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews .
for information , contact books russellblake.com .
foreword king of swords is a work of fiction .
any resemblance between the characters and real people , living or dead , is coincidental .
having said that , the backdrop and historical context of the novel is based in fact .
the drug war in mexico has been an ongoing confrontation between government forces and the ever strengthening cartels now the largest illegal drug trafficking network in the world , whose primary target market is the united states .
thousands of police and soldiers have been killed over the last ten years , as the war has intensified due to a crackdown by pro u.s. administrations .
cartel members slaughter one another by the thousands each year , as well as huge numbers of innocent bystanders .
the brutality of the turf wars that are a constant and ongoing facet of the trade is stunning well over a thousand children have been butchered during the last decade , as have countless family members of traffickers , killed in retribution or as a deterrent .
the last two secretaries of the interior for mexico died in suspicious air crashes .
the sinaloa cartel is real .
the knights templar cartel is also real , as is the gulf cartel , the tijuana cartel , and los zetas cartel .
new cartels pop up when the heads of the old groups die , and the names change with some frequency .
the only constant is the bloodshed the natural consequence of the economics of trafficking in an illegal substance that generates in excess of fifty billion dollars a year , wholesale , for the cartels in mexico a country where the average person makes a hundred and sixty dollars a month .
a description of the tarot card , the king of swords in full regalia , the king of swords sits proudly on his throne with a long , upward pointing , double edged sword clutched in his right hand , and his left hand resting lightly on his lap .
a ring adorns his left saturn finger representing power and commitment to responsibility .
the kings blue tunic symbolizes a desire for spiritual enlightenment his purple cape symbolizes empathy , compassion and intellect .
the backrest of his throne is embellished with butterflies , signifying transformation , and crescent moons orbit around an angel situated by his left ear , positioned , perhaps , to lend a delicate guidance .
the backdrop of the sky has very few clouds , signifying pragmatic mental clarity .
the trees dotting the landscape stand still , with not a rustle reflecting the king of swords stern judgment .
king of swords reversed the reversed king of swords depicts a man who is ruthless or excessively judgmental when reversed , the king of swords suggests the misuse of mental power , authority and drive .
the reversed king of swords can represent manipulation and persuasion in order to achieve selfish ends .
he is a very intelligent character who likes to demonstrate to others his superiority , either verbally or through actions .
it is best to be wary of this type of person because , although he may be charming and intelligent , he is remorseless and can do only harm .
he has only his personal interests in mind and will do whatever necessary to achieve those interests , even if it means destroying others .
introduction three years ago , pacific coast , mexico armed men lined the perimeter of the large contemporary home on the secluded stretch of seashore just north of punta mita , twenty three miles north of puerto vallarta .
the stunning single level example of modern mexican architecture sat overlooking a cove , where the heavy surf from the pacific ocean flattened out over the shallow offshore reef a hundred yards from the beach .
nine foot high concrete walls ringed the compound , protecting the occupants from prying eyes and would be intruders .
not that any were in evidence .
the property and the coastline for a quarter mile in each direction belonged to the houses secretive owner julio guzman salazar , the jalisco cartels chief and the eighth richest man in mexico , although his name didnt appear on any roster other than the governments most wanted list .
the buildings ricardo legorreta design boasted thirty eight thousand feet of interior space , with nine bedrooms in the main house , separate servants quarters adjacent to the twelve car air conditioned garage , a full sized movie theater with a floating floor , its own solar and wind power generation system , and a full time domestic staff of eleven .
an olympic sized swimming pool with an infinity edge finished in indigo mirrored glass tile created the illusion of water spilling into the deep blue ocean .
the white cantera stone pool area deck took on a pale cosmic glow as the last sliver of sun sank into the watery horizon , making way for the dark of a late november night .
the armed men encircling the house were hardened and efficient , exuding a palpable air of menace as they roamed the grounds , alert for threats .
the security detail , which traveled with salazar everywhere he went , consisted of eighteen seasoned mercenaries who were proficient with the assault rifles they held with nonchalant ease .
motion detectors provided an early warning system outside of the walls , where infrared beams crisscrossed the expanse between the beach and the house , ensuring that nothing could penetrate the elaborate defenses undetected .
salazar could afford the best security money could buy , and his private army comprised not only mexicans and nicaraguans and colombians , but also two south africans and a croatian .
all had seen more than their share of combat , either of the civilian variety in the ongoing drug skirmishes between rival cartels , or in full scale armed conflict in the balkans or africa .
at seven p.m. precisely , the bright halogen headlights of expensive vehicles began making their way down the long road from the coastal highway that connected puerto vallarta with mazatlan , and through the enormous gates of the opulent home .
each car was allowed inside to drop off its passengers after undergoing scrutiny from the guards charged with salazars protection , who inspected the suvs inside and out .
during the next hour , seven humvees and escalades discharged their loads before pulling back out of the compound and parking in a brightly lit area designated for the purpose .
two armed gunmen patrolled the flat expanse , weapons cocked and loaded .
in the constant drug battles that were the norm on mainland mexico , every minute held the possibility of instant death for those in the trade , and so the men on the security team were in a constant state of readiness for attack .
their vigilance had paid off many times over the past decade , when rival factions had attempted to challenge salazars stranglehold on the jalisco trafficking corridor .
hed emerged victorious from that series of ever escalating brutal engagements , the last of which had culminated in nineteen corpses beheaded or shot execution style in culiacan over a three month period .
the sinaloa cartel was one of the most powerful in the world , and for some time had nurtured aspirations of expanding its lethal tentacles into jalisco , the neighboring state to the south salazars home turf .
the sinaloa cartel controlled much of the marijuana produced in mexico and had grown to be the largest cocaine and heroin trafficking entity in the world , handling over seventy percent of all colombian product that made it into the u.s. salazars operation was considerably smaller , but the brutality of his tactics made him a difficult adversary to encroach upon after ten years of unsuccessful attempts to execute him , an uneasy truce now held sway .
the lush , planted areas of the compound were lavishly appointed .
the beachside pool decks verdant landscaping was circled with the flicker of tiki torches placed there for the big event that was just getting underway .
an eighteen piece mariachi band in full regalia had assembled by the massive palapa over the hotel sized outdoor pool bar .
the musicians aired their traditional music for the guests , who were almost exclusively children and their mothers .
it was salazars oldest sons seventh birthday the party was an important event .
attendees had come from as far as mexico city to honor julio juniors big day .
there was a giddy sense of privilege and wealth in the festivities the boy had been presented with a pony , along with every imaginable video game and technological miracle a young man could wish for .
clowns and acrobats japed and tumbled around the sidelines , performing astounding feats of dexterity and contortionism amid long bursts of yellow flame from a troupe of fire breathers .
peals of adolescent laughter punctuated the melody of strumming guitars and blaring horns and violins , while the women circled the childrens area clutching pia coladas and daiquiris in their lavishly bejeweled hands .
all the guests knew one another salazars social circle was small and exclusive .
off to the side , salazar and a handful of his closest male friends and associates stood beside a fifteen foot diameter fire pit , smoking cuban cigars and drinking five hundred dollar tequila from brandy snifters as they discussed business in hushed tones , occasionally glancing a watchful eye over their wives and offspring .
salazar was easily distinguished from the group due to his height and distinctive facial hair he was barely five four , and sported a lincolnic beard in the fashion that his father had affected until hed died in a car crash when salazar was nine years old .
two female dancers in traditional folk garb approached the specially erected stage with a male dancer in the classic mexican vaquero outfit , who executed a series of exhibition tricks with a lasso , dancing with the whirling rope to the delight of the assembled children .
when he was finished , the trio remained on the stage .
a spotlight flicked on .
from a newly pitched tent adjacent to the pool , a man in a black suit emerged , flamboyantly brandishing a large sombrero .
he bowed to the arc of enraptured kids before finally placing it onto the head of the birthday boy .
the crowd laughed and clapped in mutual surprise this was one of mexicos most beloved singers , popular for two decades before salazars son had been born .
he swiveled and moved onto the performance area with a practiced ease and began singing one of his most famous ballads , a perennial favorite with young and old alike .
the adults sang along and clapped , as did the children , who were captivated by the theatrical production numbers and the pomp of the event .
a small prop plane meandered along the coastline at an altitude of nine thousand feet , its lights extinguished , its radar off and its radio silent .
the pilot held up a hand with two fingers extended , and then watching his digital timer , made a curt gesture , signaling to the man in the rear that it was time .
the passenger , dressed head to toe in black and with a balaclava covering his face , nodded and gripped the lever of the sliding door on the fuselages side , twisting it and forcing it open .
he was instantly buffeted by a blast of warm air which tore at his clothes and burned his eyes , until he pulled a pair of night vision goggles into place and hurled himself into the dark , rushing void .
the wind clawed at him as he tumbled through the night sky , the planes droning engine inaudible over the howl of the wind .
after counting to twenty , he pulled the handle of his specially configured parachute harness and whumped to a near halt , the straps straining at the arrest of his descent .
a black rectangular glider parachute billowed above him as he manipulated it with two handles , until he quickly got his fall under control and directed himself at the glowing patch of coastline where the party would now be in full swing .
he glanced at the luminous hands of his oversized military blackened panerai watch and smiled under the woolen mask .
so far everything was going according to plan .
a few minutes later he could make out the flat roof of the main house , where three armed sentries watched the proceedings by the pool and scanned the beach for threats .
he was now barely fifteen hundred feet above the compound .
even at that altitude , he could hear the music and singing , and make out the shrieks of glee from the children as they chased each other around the party tables to the bouncing melody of the band .
as hed hoped , the volume of the musicians drowned out any hint of flapping from his chute .
the rooftop security men were engrossed with the show , so were unlikely to look up .
he connected the right control cable handle to a clasp on the harness , which made steering more difficult but was essential to momentarily freeing his hand .
from a strap on his chest , he grappled with the grip of an mtar 21 compact assault rifle a small , evil looking weapon with a silencer and flash suppressor .
the gun was affixed to the harness with a three foot nylon rope to prevent an inadvertent loss during the nocturnal descent .
he groped until he felt the familiar pistol grip and trigger guard , and flipped the safety off .
he was now two hundred feet above the roof at the far end of the house the three sentries were still on the beach side of the roof , watching the entertainment and scanning the surf line .
when he was twenty yards above the men , his weapon belched three short bursts , catching all three guards unawares and ending their lives before they could register any surprise .
his feet alighted on the waterproofed concrete surface next to them , and he immediately reeled in the chute , securing it in place with one of the guards guns after shrugging out of the harness .
eighty feet away , on the far end of the roof , a gathering of gulls stood with a black bird a raven or crow in their midst , silently observing the new arrival from the sky .
a sound from below startled them , and the gulls scattered into the evening sky .
the black bird remained , as if undecided , and then with a squawk also flung itself into the night .
the assassin stole his way , catlike , to the corner of the house nearest the beach and carefully unpacked the contents of his backpack , extracting two spare 32 round magazines for the gun , a black nylon rope with a grappling hook , three grenades and four smoke grenades , a fiber optic scope on the end of a black aluminum telescoping rod , a heavily modified sniper rifle with a collapsible stock , a silencer and ten round magazine for it , and a waterproof camera .
he slipped one of the magazines into a pocket on the side of his pants , along with the camera , and turned his attention to the sniper weapon .
inspecting the rifle and confirming it was intact , he drew several deep breaths , preparing himself for what was to come .
he carefully threaded the silencer onto the barrel and unfolded the carbon fiber stock , then inserted the magazine and silently eased back the precision machined bolt , chambering a round .
ready now , he flipped the night vision headgear up and out of his line of sight and peered through the telescoping fiber optic lens at the festivities below .
he quickly located the group of male guests and confirmed salazar was among them .
satisfied that his quarry was in his kill zone , he surveyed the rest of the deck and spotted three security guards unobtrusively standing in the shadows at the base of the portable lighting towers that illuminated the party .
returning his attention to salazar , he calculated the distance and the strength of the light breeze not that it would make much difference on a shot that was no more than sixty yards it was force of habit .
one of the fallen sentries radios crackled as a coarse voice intruded , demanding a status report .
he reached over and turned the volume down , then returned his focus to the celebration , this time peering over the edge of the roof through the scope of the rifle .
salazar was gesturing at the famous singer like an orchestra conductor , singing along with him , obviously well on the road to inebriation , when the top of his head blew apart , speckling his entourage with bloody shards of bone and brains .
he crumpled soundlessly , his limbs slack , dead before his brutalized head slammed against the ground .
a second ticked by as the shocked group registered what had happened , even as the band continued playing , unaware that the party had just come to an abrupt end .
the farthest security guard lurched backwards , dropping his gun as he died , and then the screaming from the crowd began .
the other two sentries swiveled around with weapons in hand , searching for assailants .
a slug tore the second guards throat out as it sheared through his spine , and the third guards chest erupted blood even as he wheeled around to his fallen associate .
pandemonium reigned as the women ran crying towards the house with their terrified children in tow .
the band fell silent and hurriedly made for cover behind the concrete pool bar , instruments clattering against the deck stone as they took flight .
a large exhibition light on the periphery exploded in a shower of sparks , then the other three quickly followed suit , and finally the spotlight shattered , leaving only the torch flames and a few indirect wall sconces on the house .
salazars friends had rushed to their families and were herding them to safety inside , leaving the expansive pool deck empty save for the band and the trembling entertainers .
on the roof , the uninvited guest tossed the rifle onto a dead guards chest and methodically lobbed the grenades over the front of the house , not looking to see where they landed , their detonations ample evidence theyd found a mark where the rest of the guards had been stationed .
he raced back to the beach side of the roof , pulled the pins on the smoke grenades and threw them onto the right side of the pool deck , allowing the breeze to waft a dense fog over the area .
satisfied with the effect , he wedged the steel hook into the concrete roof lip and tossed the line down to the ground .
he scanned the walkway that ran along the walls edge to confirm there were no armed assailants immediately proximate , and swung his legs over the side , sliding down the rope to a flagstone , where he landed in a crouch .
from the plants at the side of the deck , the dead guards radios crackled with panicked orders as he moved through the smoke to the fire pit , where salazars corpse lay sprawled face down on the white cantera in a pool of blood .
he hauled on a shoulder and flipped the body onto its back , then fished in his pants for the tarot card that was his signature .
carefully balancing the image of a crowned man holding a sword on the cartel kingpins mangled face , he took two pictures with the little camera before returning it to his pants pocket , then reached down and stuck the card in salazars gaping mouth so that he could be sure it wouldnt blow away during the ensuing action .
peering through the billowing clouds that largely obscured the house , he pulled the tab on his last smoke grenade and tossed it onto the sand , enveloping the beach with an impenetrable haze .
a hail of bullets tore a chunk of stone from the deck a few feet from him he swiveled in a crouch and fired a few short bursts from his silenced assault rifle in the direction of the barking male voices .
another bullet ricocheted off the fire pit , signaling that it was time to make his departure .
the surviving guards from the front of the house were closing in , and even he was reluctant to take on over a dozen armed men in a wide open gunfight .
he unclipped a final grenade from his backpack chest strap and pulled the pin , flipping it roughly thirty feet towards the house , and then unclipped the mtar 21 , emptied the magazine in the direction of the approaching guards and tossed it aside , satisfied with the screams of pain from their direction .
he wrenched the night vision goggles off his head and threw them as far as he could before turning to run for the beach .
the grenades concussion delivered yet another delay for his pursuers the shrapnel from the explosion would stop any chase long enough for him to get a thirty second lead , which was all he needed .
he sprinted to the water line across the luminescent sand and without hesitation dived into the mild surf , swimming energetically as he strained towards the mouth of the cove .
a beam of light played across the water from the beach , and he sensed bullets shredding through the waves around him as he plowed further from shore .
counting to himself , he swam submerged for twenty seconds at a time , coming up for gulps of air before plunging into the safety of the deep .
once he was past the partially submerged spit of land at the mouth of the cove he angled to the right , and within a few moments reached a slimy outcropping of rocks a hundred yards from the angry killers on the shore .
he fumbled around in the dark until he found the smooth fiberglass side of the black jet ski hed secured there the night before and hurriedly tore the camouflage fabric from its sleek hull and freed it from the barnacle covered stones .
the tide had risen to the point where the small watercraft slid easily onto the waves , and within seconds the engine fired and he tore off into the sea , jumping easily over the surf that roiled atop the reef line .
a few bursts of distant rifle fire chattered across the water but he was already out of range the shooting was little more than a lament from the thwarted security .
savoring the adrenaline rush as he flew over the small swells at fifty miles per hour , he reached beneath his chin and pulled the soaking balaclava over his face , jettisoning it into the pacific as he plotted a course south , where a vehicle waited on a lonely stretch of beach for his nocturnal arrival .
tonight would be the stuff of legends , he knew .
in a business where money flowed like water , hed just pulled off the impossible in a spectacular and flamboyant manner .
after this , hed be able to command whatever fee he wanted , and there would be an international waiting list of eager clients .
hed left the card in salazars maw to seal the deal and continue to build his reputation .
it had started years ago , as an idea hed gotten from an article hed read about the american war in the middle east , where the kill squads assigned playing cards to each target they were hunting .
hed liked the idea , but had taken it one step further with a unique flourish .
when hed begun his career as contract killer , hed made a point of leaving a tarot card with a depiction of the king of swords on it the significance of which was known only to him and hed adopted a nickname that now struck fear into the hearts of those he targeted .
king of swords .
el rey de espadas .
or as the press had taken to calling him , el rey .
it might have been a little melodramatic , but nobody was laughing now that his legacy of impossible kills was the stuff of front page headlines .
not since the exploits of carlos the jackal had an assassin gained such notoriety , and hed carefully selected the contracts hed taken for maximum publicity value , in addition to the money .
hed quickly developed a reputation as a phantom , an invisible man a contract arranged with him was as good as putting a bullet in the targets brain at the time the deal was negotiated .
el rey was a star , a legend , and even his clients approached him with a certain trepidation when they required his services .
these were generally men who butchered whole communities to make a point , but who deferred to el rey out of respect .
hed earned it the hard way , by taking the sanctions that were considered impossible and then delivering .
in his circles , respect was won at the edge of a knife blade or the barrel of a gun .
it was blood currency .
and now , he could name his price .
tonights logistics had cost him just under a hundred thousand dollars the contract price had been two and a half million .
not a bad evenings work .
but after this , his rate would start at four million and quickly increase from there , depending on the level of difficulty .
off to his left , the lights of punta mitas expansive coastline sparkled in the overcast night .
some of the homes along that stretch of beach cost well over five million dollars , he knew .
rich gringos and successful narcotraficantes were the only ones who could afford them , and with a little luck , soon he would be part of the elite that called the area home .
but hed need to do a few more jobs before he could hang up his tail and horns and call it quits , and he was in no hurry to retire .
el rey loved the adrenaline rush of the kill the more planning involved and the greater the level of challenge , the better .
he glanced down at the dimly illuminated compass hed mounted beneath the handles and made a small adjustment to his course , musing at the direction his life had taken as he sliced through the inky water , effortlessly making his escape into the warm tropical night .
prologue two years ago , puebla , mexico the central square in downtown puebla was typical of larger mexican towns a cultural hub for the community as well as a gathering place .
tourists from all over the country traveled to visit the cathedral adjacent to the square the area was one of the most picturesque in the region .
a steady procession of cars cruised around the city center , although traffic was kind in the early afternoon .
a light breeze rustled through the trees that sheltered picnickers from the harsh sunlight as they languished on the freshly trimmed grass , the faint aroma of delectables from the nearby restaurants wafting across the common like a gastronomic siren song .
rosa sat at one of the quaint cafs with her daughter , cassandra , eating fresh fruit sorbet .
it was summer , so school was out , and they were visiting rosas parents for a week a refreshing break from the press of humanity in mexico city , which was among the largest cities in the world , and the place she reluctantly called home .
the weather was hot , but not punishingly so , and free from the oppressive pollution that hung like a blanket over the valley where mexico city resided .
some of the air quality problems were a function of geography , and some were due to the virtual absence of any emission control on cars until recently .
the capital of mexico was surrounded by hills , which prevented the thermal layer of un breathable toxins from dispersing .
it was one of natures cruel tricks that so many people lived in an area where breathing the air was the equivalent of smoking a pack of cigarettes a day .
she wished that they could move , maybe to guadalajara , where the weather was usually nice and the verdant region of lake chapala was little more than an hour away , but her husbands job wouldnt allow for that .
she hated that they were locked into living in their little three bedroom row house in toluca , near the airport , in a neighborhood that seemed chronically victimized by crime but life wasnt always fair or easy and they were doing the best they could .
rosa had a decent career as an insurance agent for her own small agency , and between her income and her husbands they did as well as they could expect , but sometimes she was affected by a sense of melancholy , especially as she watched her eight year old daughter growing up in less than ideal conditions .
cassandra had been a kind of miracle rosas doctor had convinced her that she would never be able to carry a baby to term due to a host of chronic immuno deficiencies , but a strong faith in god and skilled care at the hospital had brought cassandra howling into the world , where shed been rosas pride and joy ever since .
glancing at her daughter , rosa brushed cassandras hair out of her eyes , and using a corner of her napkin , wiped away a smudge of strawberry from the little girls upturned lips .
cassandra cass gave rosa a look of embarrassment and hastily rubbed her forearm across her face .
rosa smiled at the gesture .
that was another way to do it , she supposed .
a policeman on patrol tipped his cap to the pair as he strolled by she returned his smile out of courtesy .
a striking example of classical mexican beauty , with flashing eyes the color of espresso and black hair that shimmered like silk against her caf au lait complexioned skin , she was accustomed to admiring attention from men , even though shed long ago pledged her heart and soul to her husband the love of her life .
cass had inherited her stunning features , but with an unexpected twist of dirty blond hair a testament to her fathers partial german lineage several generations back .
even now , barely an adolescent , she was a gorgeous child , and rosa knew she was destined to break hearts when she blossomed .
it was not out of the question that she could be a model once she hit her teens a few of rosas friends had already said as much .
as they watched the cars go by and the kids playing on the square , both mother and daughter felt happy to be relaxed in a place that was safe and relatively unspoiled .
theyd just finished lunch at a small restaurant at the base of one of the old hotels facing the church , enjoying the best chicken mole poblano rosa had tasted in years .
mole sauce was more of an art than a recipe , and each region had its own take on the dish .
in puebla , the sauce was nearly black , as thick as liquid tar , redolent of chocolate and clove and thirty something other spices and ingredients .
it was a rich and heady dish , and few restaurants could pull it off as well as the one theyd dined at .
puebla was one of the meccas of mexican culinary accomplishment , and mole poblano was a signature pueblan specialty .
cass had busied herself naming the pigeons that paraded and strutted across the street in the square , and one particularly unctuous example of male avian belligerence had captured her attention .
shed announced to rosa that his name was el guero the pale one .
the bird was almost blindingly white and had a remarkable presence a swagger in each step and with chest puffed out , he fanned his wings and tail feathers in a display of mating finery .
the smaller gray females were clearly impressed with his moves , as was cass .
back and forth he swooped , cooing loudly as he pranced , the bird king of the puebla park holding court for his admiring subjects .
finished with their post prandial treat , mother and daughter left the vicinity of the square and made their way to the parking lot where theyd left their car a peugeot that had never seemed to run correctly since the day theyd bought it new , on payments that amounted to twenty percent annual interest .
rosa hated the little blue beast , and was counting the days until it was paid for so they could sell it and get something more reliable .
two blocks from the square , an ivory ford expedition pulled to the curb beside them , and two men who had been following a few yards behind abruptly grabbed the pair and forced them towards the rear door .
rosa screamed , as did cassandra , who also kicked and tried to bite her assailants arm .
one of the men punched rosa hard enough to break her nose in an effort to stop the yelling , before he manhandled her to the vehicle .
there was sparse pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk , but the few people who saw the altercation stopped walking , frozen in place .
kidnappings were an unfortunate and all too regular feature of some larger mexican cities , and the armed gangs that specialized in it were not to be trifled with .
shootouts were not uncommon , because those drawn to the profession were typically violent and desperate , with nothing much to lose .
the man who had punched rosa pinned her on the rear seat while the other man lifted the struggling , screaming cassandra and stuffed her next to her mother .
one kidnapper got in back with the pair the other climbed into the front passenger seat .
the truck roared off down the street in a cloud of exhaust and a squealing of tires .
it had no license plate , a not particularly rare occurrence for those who didnt want to pay registration fees , so there were no immediately identifying marks other than a description of a large white ford suv .
the man in the rear seat slapped duct tape over cassandras mouth , then reached over and did the same with rosa .
the abductor in the passenger seat trained a pistol on rosas head , convincing her quickly that creating further havoc could be a fatal miscalculation .
cassandra sobbed into the tape , terrified of what was happening and what was likely to come .
twenty five minutes after being snatched off the street in broad daylight , their assailants threw rosa and cassandra down a flight of stairs into a basement with a filthy mattress and a broken sewer line evacuating into one of the corners .
the stink was overpowering , and once the tape had been torn from their mouths , cassandra vomited all over herself , infuriating the four men who descended the stone stairs a few minutes later .
the largest of them slammed her against the far wall and issued angry instructions to one of his subordinates , who quickly returned with a hose from the garden immediately outside the basement entrance .
rosa attempted to shield her daughter , but the large man grabbed her by the hair and punched rosa in the stomach , knocking the wind out of her and crippling her with pain .
she collapsed on the floor , helpless , and two of the men alternated kicking her with their pointy toed cowboy boots .
after a few blows , she mercifully slipped into unconsciousness .
even so , the men continued to rain kicks on her until they tired of the sport and turned their attention to the young girl .
a stream of cold water struck cassandra in the face .
the men laughed as she screamed in fear and rage at the shock , as well as the vision of her mothers inert form in the filth on the dank basement floor .
once the vomit had rinsed clean , the large man approached her huddled shape as she shivered , soaked and terrified , and tore her dress off , ripping the thin fabric as though it was tissue .
grunting , he lifted her like a rag doll and threw her onto the stained mattress .
stunned , she cried in panicked horror as the men circled her in preparation for the afternoons diversion .
the large man fumbled with his belt , and the others smiled in anticipation as cassandras unholy shrieks reverberated off the uncaring walls of her private hell .
two days later , a package arrived at rosas husbands work with his name written carefully on the label in black felt pen , with a return address in puebla that of rosas parents .
a local courier brought the box in and the receptionist signed for it , then instructed the mail boy to take it to his office , where he was preparing for a staff meeting with his immediate subordinates .
no one working that day would ever forget the screams of horror and grief that emanated from his office when he opened the special delivery .
inside , wrapped in plastic and surrounded by crushed newspaper , were cassandras and rosas heads , neatly severed at the third cervical vertebra , with their eyes crudely sewn shut .
each had the brand of a scorpion seared into their foreheads , and the tail of a scorpion protruded from their mouths , where the predatory arthropods had been lodged as calling cards .
four months ago , durango , mexico the crowd broke into a rousing cheer as hector de la silva took the podium at the rally .
long one of the more popular governors in mexican history , his term had passed without him seeking re election his aspirations for the presidency as the likely successor to mexicos highest office quite obvious .
hed already begun the convoluted and colorful campaigning that made mexican elections something of a spectacle the fiery rhetoric and accusations vivid and damning , the promises lofty and inspiring .
nobody actually believed anything the candidates said history had shown that no matter who was in power , the campaign promises were immediately forgotten as soon as the voting was over , but the process was celebrated for the showmanship and sense of theater .
hector , or el gallo as he was known the rooster was in his element a consummate performer from decades of holding political office , he knew how to play to a crowd like a virtuoso .
he was famous for slamming his forehead into the podium when his speech reached its climax , underscoring the sacrifice he was prepared to make on behalf of his constituency the head banging routine was now as popular and expected as the flip off the top rope in the mexican wrestling matches the lucha libre , where masked wrestlers cum gymnasts performed amazing feats of physical dexterity as they pretended to fight each other .
nobody believed that was real , either , and yet it was hugely popular , trailing only soccer for entertainment value .
the assembled spectators waited in quivering anticipation as el gallo mounted the stage , clad in an everyman ranchers shirt and sporting a cowboy hat .
this was a man of the people , a member of the masses , he assured them , even as his four hundred dollar ostrich skin boots gleamed in the sunlight .
never mind that his brothers were among the wealthiest landowners in the region , or that his father had been a household name in building low income housing .
forget all that , his demeanor seemed to demand .
here was a humble , simple man , who reluctantly would shoulder the considerable burden of steering the nation back onto the path of righteousness , having somewhat lost its way though certainly not because of the actions of his political party , which was also the current presidents .
no , the country was in mortal peril because of a crisis in morality , exemplified by the surge in popularity and power of the drug cartels .
he cleared his throat and began to speak , a deep baritone long bent to the artifice of holding an audiences attention , well modulated , passion and intensity obvious in every syllable without any evidence of stridency .
this was a mans man , a visionary , a leader capable of finally , after centuries of oppression , delivering to the mexican people the promise of their legacy .
look at the prosperity mexico has enjoyed over the last few years .
under the partys leadership , a new , burgeoning middle class has been created , and poverty has been eradicated in many of its most pervasive forms .
our economy is the eleventh largest in the world , strong and resilient , like the mexican people , who have triumphed in the face of adversity and built a better future for our children !
el gallo proclaimed , emphasizing points by stabbing at the air with his hat .
the crowd burst into well choreographed spontaneous applause , led by party agitators who were in attendance to galvanize cheering at the appropriate points .
the television cameras tracked over the thronged celebrants one could hardly watch the outpouring of enthusiasm without being moved .
i love my children , and i have taught them to love god , and mexico .
i like to think ive shown them the difference between right and wrong , between good and evil , between a road with promise and one that leads to purgatory .
children are the countrys future , and so we must do everything in our power to build a safe environment where they can excel .
they shouldnt have to worry about drug cartels shooting up the streets , or pushing their poison in our schools .
we can not give in to their terrorism .
not because its the right thing to do .
not because its the easy thing to do .
but because of the children .
we must do what it takes , for the children , for mexicos bountiful harvest of talent and hope !
a hunched figure adjusted the tripod of the high velocity rifle , watching as the oration hit full stride and the gathering of citizens applauded again .
the actual words were lost on him because he was behind the speakers , in the tower of the church five hundred yards from the optimistic assembly .
he was invisible to the security forces in place around the rally , the rifle recessed in one of the small rectangular openings of the towers pinnacle .
the gunman watched the red balloons that framed the stage for clues as to the amount and direction of any wind .
he was in luck .
the late spring gusts were nowhere in evidence .
it would be an easy shot .
he was startled by a car backfiring on the road below .
several security men ran in the direction of the percussive blast , accompanied by six soldiers .
they watched as an ancient farm truck rolled down the street , straining under its load of hay .
at the next intersection , the engine backfired again the group of gunmen exchanged relieved looks , laughing with merriment at their defense of el gallo from a poorly tuned v8 .
the sentries returned to their positions as the great man continued to paint his verbose vision of a bright new future .
a crow landed on the balustrade of the tower and fixed the man with its beady stare .
for a reason he couldnt define , he was momentary chilled the hair on his arms standing erect .
he wasnt a believer in omens or symbols , but lurking somewhere in his schooldays the crow was deemed a foreteller of bad luck .
an impression from his past nagged at him , tried to surface , but he shrugged it off he didnt have time to waste on being spooked by a bird .
the man grinned at his own imagination allowing a crow to throw him .
it would be a day of bad luck , all right , but not for him .
the crow bobbed its head several times , then pecked at the stone it was standing on before giving up on its project and flying away .
he reached into his pants pocket and extracted a pair of dense foam earplugs before setting them in front of him , along with a digital watch displaying the time .
he had thirty seconds .
checking to ensure that everything was in place , he compressed the plugs and inserted one into each ear before returning his attention to the florid man pontificating on the stage .
he seemed to be reaching a crescendo , and the gunman couldnt help but smile again .
this was going to be a funny one , if there ever had been .
he couldnt wait to see the papers tomorrow .
el gallo was building his intensity , railing against the cartels as the embodiment of satan crawling over the planet in human form .
the words were powerful , and the emotions high as his voice increased in volume .
these scum are a cancer on the body of the state they are toxic purveyors of poison and suffering .
they accommodate the demands of the rich gringos , who buy their products even as their own country collapses from the weight of its own excesses .
they have turned mexico into their whore , and its children into their slaves .
we suffer so that pimps and rich socialites can snort the devils dandruff during their orgies .
i would send a message to these traitors who suckle at the tit of the false god to the north .
i would send a telegram .
the message is , no longer will we be your burros or your lapdogs .
no more will you use our blood to lubricate your war machine .
we are mexican , and we are tired of being the back yard where you dump your problems , where you come to turn our daughters into prostitutes and our sons into groveling peasants .
your time is over , and we will now reclaim the bounty that is our birthright !
we are strong and proud .
and most of all , we are mexican .
we are family and we will be free !
the bells of the church began ringing , announcing the arrival of the noon hour , and el gallo , in fever pitch , slammed his head forward onto the podium in his now famous trademark move .
the crowd burst into a spirited and hearty applause .
it was only when he slumped to the floor with blood spreading over the back of his hand stitched white silk cowboy shirt that the screaming began .
the young novitiate moved with easy determination to the doors of the church as the pealing of the bells trumpeted gods grace and presence in everyday life .
an ancient woman crossed herself as he passed , her weathered face momentarily glowing with a devoted smile .
he turned when he reached the door and genuflected , his cassock brushing the ground as he crossed himself before the vision of an unfortunate savior crucified so that humanity could be saved , movingly depicted in the statue that dominated the wall above the altar .
the sun streaked through the elaborate stained glass windows over the door , bathing the interior in a dazzling multi colored glow the nearly empty chamber radiated a tranquility that was regrettably absent from the cruel world just outside the doors .
with bible in hand , and fingering his rosary , he exited the house of worship and crossed the street a pious man on a mission to save the world .
twenty minutes later , the bodyguards and soldiers crept up the stairs to the tower top , guns at the ready as they strained their ears for any hint of threat .
the huge bells had fallen silent , and the only sound besides the scream of the sirens from the square across the wide boulevard was the cooing of amorous doves taking refuge in the tower rafters .
the leader of the team held up a hand in warning when he spotted the rifle , still on the tripod , a single spent shell casing lying by its side .
he grudgingly inched towards it the blood drained from his face as he saw the item held in place by the votive candle .
the stern countenance of the highly stylized rendering of the royal presence seemed to sneer at the intruders , the brandished sword proclaiming to one and all the regal superiority of the seated man .
he approached the card as if in a trance , then reached down and retrieved the tattered rectangle , holding it up for his men to see .
the king of swords had struck again .
visit russells website for more details go back to table of contents adventures in reading for kids 8 12 by debra chapoton copyright 2011 by debra chapoton all rights reserved www.bigpinelodgebooks.com smashwords edition this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
this is a sampler collection of the first 5 chapters of several childrens books by author debra chapoton .
these samplings are brought to you by big pine lodge books .
all books are available on smashwords for 2.99 or .99 as well as in paperback form .
the samples are from the following books nick bazebahl and the forbidden tunnels http www.smashwords.com books view 108514 the secret in the hidden cave http www.smashwords.com books view 30483 a tick in time http www.smashwords.com books view 32518 bullies and bears http www.smashwords.com books view 32152 bigfoot day , ninja night http www.smashwords.com books view 32976 nick bazebahl and the forbidden tunnels chapter 1 the giant dryer i dont know how i got into this building .
sometimes that happens to me in this place .
i dont think its memory loss or anything magical .
it just is .
when i say i suddenly found myself outside , well , thats really what happens .
my name is nick bazebahl .
yup , youre right , it sounds like a sport and i can live up to my name , no problem .
my dad thinks im the star of little league .
but back to the building i found myself in .
there were a lot of kids , mostly older than me .
taller , for sure .
they were busily moving around .
i saw a couple of guys step out of the giant round openings of what looked like room sized washing machines .
front loaders .
i peered into one after some middle school kids turned the corner .
clothing was stuck to the far inside wall of the machine and had to be peeled off like velcro .
i know because thats what i did .
i peeled off some nice jeans and a dark blue tee shirt .
i needed a new disguise .
stealing someones freshly washed laundry would have to do .
after all , i was pretty noticeable in this bright orange shirt and torn jeans .
but before i could change i suddenly found myself outside .
i walked around the building looking for an entrance and finally found one at the walk out basement level .
a line of people stretched twenty feet or so with each person pushing a wheeled laundry basket .
you know the kind prisoners escape in them all the time on shows i watch when the babysitter is over .
just so you know , the babysitter is watching my younger sister , gracie .
anyway , i didnt think this was the way i had entered the first time .
darn , i knew there would be challenges when i came here .
i cut in line behind a woman with a skirt the size of my uncles pole barn .
no one complained that i took cuts .
they probably couldnt see me .
i took the first set of stairs up two flights and followed the woman as she went to the right .
it was habit , i guess , from following my mom not that my mom has a big butt , she doesnt .
this lady i was following went into a room with a swimming pool .
it was huge !
as she went to the changing room i took off the orange shirt and holey jeans right there .
i was glad to see i was wearing some fairly new underwear .
i wrapped myself in one of the softest white towels i had ever felt .
then i went looking for the giant washing machines again .
a towel disguise wouldnt be the smartest thing to run in , i know , but .
.
.
well , at least i wouldnt stand out .
strange as it seems almost everyone i passed was wearing a white towel .
i followed the winding hallway .
a hint of dryer lint and fabric softener in the air was guiding me .
then suddenly an announcement blared from speakers in the ceilings .
the monitors were here !
i didnt just need clothes now .
i needed a really quick escape route .
chapter 2 running down the hill i followed a woman that looked a lot like my mom smaller butt , long brown hair .
i watched her pull armloads of pants , shirts , underwear and sheets from one of the machines .
she heaped them in a pile on a long folding table and then went back to the giant machine .
she crouched and entered it .
it was really big .
i guess she had to peel off the stuff that got stuck to the back .
i took my chances and i grabbed what i wanted from the table .
i wanted anything blue , not pink .
not purple .
then i ducked into an open machine to change .
thats right .
these machines were bigger than the closets at our old apartment .
i was fast .
fast like you have five minutes , nick , before we have to leave for your ballgame not fast like the school bus will be here soon , you dont want to miss it , do you ?
i hurried to one of the small windows that looked out toward a fading sunset .
huh ?
this was weird .
i wasnt the only sloppy dressed kid trying to escape this place .
dozens of other kids were jumping out .
they were landing on the loose dirt and sand surfing down the steep hillside .
most were in clothes too baggy or too tight .
lots of pink among the girls .
i wiggled through the opening and did the same surfing run down the hill .
my arms flapped at my sides as i tried to keep my balance .
everyone was running away from the building .
no one was yelling or screaming , not even the girls .
super weird .
it felt just like something was chasing us , but when i looked back all i saw was the red wall of that strange place .
suddenly , everything was dark .
chapter 3 the cliff i was in the woods now and the lights from the building didnt penetrate into the forest .
my eyes adjusted pretty quickly , though .
as i followed the others i noted that they were veering off in three separate directions .
a pair of kids , teenagers probably , were heading left followed by several moms , all plump .
im not allowed to say fat .
down the center trail went a bunch of girls .
now , finally , they were making noise , giggling .
i felt i better stick with the guys so i went right .
that meant i had to follow a guy in a soccer uniform .
good disguise , dog .
but i could barely see who he was following .
one last look behind and i knew i had just made it out of there in time .
the spotlights were scanning everywhere .
i turned and fell .
straight .
straight down .
straight down a slippery tube .
if i wasnt so scared i would have laughed and enjoyed the ride .
it lasted a full minute sixty microwave seconds and i felt hotter and hotter .
the sliding slowed as the tunnel evened out .
i had to crawl out the last three feet .
bazebahl , over here , someone whispered .
who could know my name ?
weve got a hard case here , she said .
she was an ageless woman , maybe thirty five , maybe sixty .
she looked a lot like every teacher at my school .
her nametag said mabel jackson and i glanced down at my own chest to see that somehow i had a stick on nametag , too .
it said nick bazebahl and had my picture , too .
it was my school picture , the retake from last spring with my hair about as short as its ever been .
when i looked up again i realized that the lady had just said something about a case .
a hard case ?
i echoed .
i dont know what youre talking about .
i couldnt imagine what she meant .
oh , yeah , thats right , youll have a little trouble with your memory for a while .
thatll pass .
just follow me for now , she said .
its almost midnight , we dont want to be late .
memory thing ?
well , that sort of made sense .
i could not in a million years figure out how i got here or what i was supposed to do .
i must be experiencing some kind of memory blackout .
cool .
i started following her .
i wondered what we were going to be late for .
and midnight ?
it was almost midnight ?
awesome .
i hope its a school night .
the sky got more black .
suddenly there was a boom of thunder and lightning and the rain poured down in sheets .
miss jackson led me to a high , rocky bluff and we crouched down and looked over .
the straight river below held a steamboat trapped on a rock .
with every flash our eyes registered the progress of a small raft that was heading directly toward the boat .
thats jim !
i shouted to miss jackson , as i wiped my eyes and face clear of the cold rain .
i wondered how i knew it was jim .
jim who ?
of course , she answered .
and were here to save him and the little guy with him .
chapter 4 the growling i should have been confused by mabel jacksons statement , but , oddly , i knew she was right and we were definitely here on this bluff about to save two poor people on a raft .
double awesome .
i must have grown some new memories to replace the old or something .
but how were we going to save this jim and this little guy ?
we had no tools , no equipment of any kind .
at least i didnt .
i looked toward this nice lady and waited for the next flash of lightning .
and there it was .
flash !
ka boom !
an image of her was burned into my eyes with hot redness .
her hair was plastered to her head .
there was a strap across her shoulder and a large bag under her arm .
whats in your bag ?
i asked , turning my attention back to the flickering boat lights below .
i could just make out the square shape of the raft entering a circle of light .
the usual , she said , ipad , knives , guns and for back up paper and pencils .
did i hear right ?
oh , and a flashlight , of course , she added as she shined a narrow beam in my face .
then she fanned the light over my body and asked , wheres your bag ?
didnt you pick it up ?
my hesitation must have made her think i was somebody else , maybe , even though i had the right nametag .
are you nick ?
who are you ?
and then her flashlight glowed over the larger duffel bag behind me .
only a few scattered raindrops were splish splashing on it now .
oh , there it is .
open it , would you ?
the zipper stuck every couple of inches , but i managed to force it open .
inside was another flashlight .
there was also a rope and a ton of rock climbing gear .
cool .
i could rock climb .
i went twenty feet up the rock wall at the indoor center .
higher than even matt jennings and it was his birthday party .
oops , i had to hurry .
the sound of the raft cracking up below was not the only reason i rushed to pull the supplies out .
the growling close to my left ear was louder than any mean german shepherd ive ever heard .
chapter 5 another tunnel as the growling grew louder and the snorts produced some foggy , and stinky , hot breaths , i slipped over the side of the cliff .
old miss or mrs. jackson was already below me , going down faster than youd think an old lady could go .
the crash of the waves below told me when i was near enough to look down .
its not a good idea to look down before youre still far enough to break a bone .
i caught some good footing and finished the drop by swinging into a cave .
yes , convenient , i know .
watch out , miss jackson said as she grabbed me around the waist and kept me from landing in , or rather diving through , the hole in the cave floor .
now listen .
the language we heard coming from the steamboat and the raft was really , really old fashioned .
kind of like the black and white movies my grandparents think we like to watch with them .
there was cussing and a whole lot of the n word .
i was really shocked , but miss jackson just kept scribbling notes .
my cousin has some really nasty rap stuff he let my brother and me listen to .
that is , until mom walked in .
anyway , this sort of sounded like that , but i didnt think my mom or grandma would have minded this as much .
it wasnt said mean like or nothing .
somehow it fit .
start writing !
they trust us .
were doing good here .
miss jackson hissed , thrusting her paper and pencil at me .
she turned on her recording device and started capturing the dialogue .
i didnt see the point in my taking notes .
i couldnt write near as fast as she had been , or as well .
still , i got myself out of the tangle of the ropes and gave it my best shot .
it seemed to take hours and when i looked up we werent outside at all .
we were standing in an old fashioned farmhouse bedroom , peering out from a crack in the nearly closed closet door .
an old woman with a bonnet on her head was shaking her finger at a boy coming out from under the bed , another boy was huddled under the sheets .
enough , jackson whispered , dropping her device into her bag .
she held it open for me to toss in the paper and pencil .
then she stepped back and disappeared through a hole in the floor .
but not before she grabbed my ankle .
i flew after her , bumping against the smooth sides of yet another tunnel .
you have finished the first 5 chapters of nick bazebahl and the forbidden tunnels .
this book is available in paperback as well as in digital e book form .
the tunnels series continues with nick bazebahl and the red tunnels , nick bazebahl and the wormhole tunnels , nick bazebahl and the mining tunnels , nick bazebahl and the cartoon tunnels , nick bazebahl and the fake witch tunnels , and more .
if youd like to purchase any of these books please go to the authors page at http www.smashwords.com profile view debrachapoton or her website http www.bigpinelodgebooks.com please continue reading samples .
next is the secret in the hidden cave chapter 1 the key .
it was suddenly very clear that the key in missys back pocket wasnt an ordinary key .
the rock ledge that she and jessica were on , wide enough for several more people but still high enough to make their stomachs jittery , wasnt an ordinary ledge either .
the rock ledge seemed artificially formed , although from a distance it would be impossible to detect that .
all of the gouges and pockmarks were actually impressions of different keys large , small , thin , thick .
some indentations were deep , some were shallow , and all were spaced unevenly over the entire false rock face .
give me the key , missy , jessica panted , still out of breath from their climb , this has to be the way in .
well be able to save kevin and get out of here before they know were missing .
missy carefully took the key out of her pocket , this was not the place to be accidentally dropping things , and handed it to jessica who reached as high as she could to compare the key to the top left impression .
what do you think will happen if it fits ?
missy whispered .
think it will just automatically open ?
its worth a try .
jessica had dismissed the first several impressions and was slowly moving her hand down the rock , comparing the tiny indentations with the strange pattern of the key .
she held it between her thumb and first finger so she could find the match just as if she were doing another 500 piece puzzle , looking for the partner to the piece in her hand .
this is going to take a while .
there must be a thousand possibilities here .
suddenly both girls froze as they heard a rustling in the underbrush twenty or thirty feet below them .
missy needed to swat a mosquito but was afraid to move .
perched where they were they knew that from below they were invisible , but their voices would give them away .
had they been whispering too loudly ?
the mosquito that had been buzzing missys face had now moved to her knee and landed .
she glanced down and saw the tiny insect glistening gold in the afternoon sunlight .
she stared .
the mosquito really was golden and it was not about to bite her , but instead it seemed to be leading her to look to the last key mark near her foot .
pssssst , missy motioned to jessica and pointed out the key mark where the false rock met the ground .
jessica passed her the key and held her breath .
there was another sound below , a sort of humph , like someone clearing his throat .
missy bent down , crossed her fingers on her left hand and pressed the key hard into the rock outline with her right hand .
there was a whooshy sound , an inhuman sigh , and the false rock started to slowly open .
but it was pushing outward and missy had nowhere to step to from her crouching position .
she started to stand and move toward jessica who was stretching out her hand .
the rock door was pushing out and slowly upwards , too , but she wasnt sure if she could reach jessica or duck under the opening before it pushed her off the ledge .
what a stupid place to put the keyhole , she thought , there should be a better entrance !
she decided to try to cling to the bottom of the rock door as it swung out and up .
she grabbed at the indentations some were deep enough to provide a handhold .
her left hand seemed to have a good hold but her right hand scraped down and dislodged the key .
instinct made her grab for it before it fell forever lost below .
jessica gasped , look out , missy !
missy was losing her balance even though the door was no longer pushing outward only upward .
there was a loud mechanical grumble below them in the underbrush as well as a hoarse voice , definitely human , rasping gotcha !
missy had heard stories about people whose whole lives flashed before their eyes when they thought they were about to die .
time seemed to slow way down but it wasnt her whole life that flashed before her .
she thought of march .
last march , when this unbelievable adventure had begun chapter 2 march missy had been doing her favorite thing watching reruns and eating chips .
not potato chips , chocolate chips .
she didnt have any friends , not here anyway .
she had friends back home but it wasnt home anymore since her mom and she had moved from the nice warm south to this cooler state .
cold actually .
when they arrived in january it had been snowing and a blizzard had closed school on the first day she was going to go .
she probably shouldnt have complained so much about the cold and snow to her new classmates , or rather , she shouldnt have bragged about the 75 degree weather she had just left .
she had gotten off to a bad start but a few of the girls were starting to be friendlier , now that her tan had started to fade .
she was just thinking how her life was like this rerun she was watching , boring , predictable , when her mom came into the den and sat down next to her .
missy , this weekend were driving up north to visit someone , her mom said .
you mean theres someplace more north than here ?
yup , dont you want to know who were going to see ?
who ?
your fathers grandfather .
missys father died when she was four and she only had warm , fuzzy memories of a big , strong , nice smelling man reading her stories .
she had met her grandparents lots of times but she didnt even realize that she had a great grandfather .
he must be ancient .
very , her mother replied , he must be almost a hundred , but he still lives all by himself .
your dad didnt get to know him because your grandfather had had a big fight with him a long time ago and they quit speaking .
thats stupid .
i know , but anyway , your great grandfather got in touch with me after your father died and ive been meaning to take you to see him for the last eight years .
it was always too far and we couldnt afford the trip , but now its just a four or five hour drive away .
well leave very early saturday morning .
sound like fun ?
not exactly , missy said and then saw the disappointed look on her mothers face .
she quickly added , but im sure it will be interesting .
yeah , right , she thought , some hundred year old stranger relative is going to be interesting and fun .
early saturday morning they ate breakfast and packed sandwiches and drinks for a picnic along the way .
missy looked over her mothers shoulder and they both studied the road map that was unfolded on the kitchen table .
the majority of the trip would be mostly expressway but the last forty miles or so it was going to be tricky .
not all of the smaller roads names appeared on the map .
there were lots of lakes , state forests , and campgrounds .
there were other odd looking symbols on the map and missy was just about to ask her mom what they meant when her mom said , well , i have a general idea of where were going , and he does have a telephone , so we can call if we get lost .
he may live in the sticks but its not like someone in the area wouldnt know where big pine lodge was and who mr. stark is .
mr. stark ?
missy just realized that she hadnt even considered that her fathers grandfather would of course have the same last name , a name that had caused her a little bit of grief when some older boys had teased her and called her stork .
hey , stork , what long skinny legs you have .
hey , stork , deliver any babies recently ?
name calling could be so mean .
what was , i mean , is , his first name ?
and what do i call him ?
great grandpa ?
his name is john washington stark and i guess you can call him great grandpa .
youll have to ask him .
i really cant tell you much more .
ive talked to him on the phone a couple of times .
he seemed nice , not a crotchety old geezer .
he said he especially wanted to give you something .
what ?
he didnt say .
hmm .
a mystery .
what would an almost hundred year old person have to give to a twelve year old girl he had never met ?
money ?
that would be good .
jewelry ?
maybe the lodge itself !
no , it was probably some dumb worthless heirloom like his wifes wedding ring .
sentimental value only .
missy sat staring out the car window trying to think of any other possibilities .
she was so completely lost in thought that she didnt even notice it had started to snow .
her mother laughed and said , i should have checked the weather report for up here .
we might need boots and warmer jackets .
missy came out of her trance and gasped , my gosh , i didnt know it would still be snowing in march !
its so pretty .
large fluffy flakes swirled down and started to cover the brownish green shoulders of the expressway and the median between the north and southbound lanes .
no flakes stuck to the highway , though , they just seemed to dodge away from the tires of the cars in front of them , as if they were playing a flying game of tag .
missy was hypnotized by the sight and soon fell asleep , her head bobbing forward until her mother applied the brakes and slowed the car to exit .
ow , my neck hurts .
how long have i been sleeping ?
half an hour .
wow , there must be two inches of snow .
where are we ?
we are at the hard part .
spread the map on your lap so i can see it .
missy opened the map and found the exit number her mother had marked .
looks like you turn right here and we go about a half an inch to gunther road , missy said .
half an inch , huh ?
whats that , about two or three miles ?
no , the legend says one inch equals ten miles , so its about five miles from here .
they drove on slowly over the now white and slippery country roads .
they had no trouble finding gunther road or the next six turns but they both agreed that it was taking too long and they were hungry .
since they hadnt seen any other cars for the last ten minutes they simply stopped and ate their sandwiches in the car with the engine running .
the snow stopped and the sun came back out .
there was a sign on their right that they couldnt read before because it was covered with sticky , wet snow .
suddenly it all slid off and revealed a startling truth welcome to starkville , population 125 .
starkville !
missy proclaimed .
mom , theres a town named after us !
after your ancestors , i guess .
i had no idea .
its too small to be printed on this map .
they looked at each other and laughed .
it was only five more miles but they missed the last turn and had to double back .
there was a sign at an unmarked lane that said , seasonal road , not plowed by road commission and they both agreed that this was most likely their last turn .
the car moved slowly down what seemed to be a disappearing road with heavy woods on either side .
they couldnt see very far ahead because the road would either dip or turn .
the snow clinging to the evergreens gave it a very picturesque and christmassy feel but missys mother seemed more than a little nervous about driving on the snow .
if another car came toward them there was nowhere to go but backwards .
missy , however , was thinking that she would like to come back in the summer and explore the woods .
look !
a fort !
at the side of the narrow road was an old wooden structure .
real logs had been set vertically into the ground and their tops had been cut into points .
there were small slit like window openings on the two sides that could be seen from the road .
missy was enthralled with the crude structure .
it was about the size of a kids playhouse .
it would be a neat place to spy on visitors , she thought .
and just as that thought crossed her mind she noticed footprints in the snow at the far side of the fort .
she looked again at the small windows .
she couldnt see anyone there but she was sure that she felt someone looking back at her .
they made a sharp right then a sharp left turn and saw a large brown sign with green lettering big pine lodge .
the sign was very rustic and yet seemed to missy to be promising something very special ahead .
one more turn through thick pine trees and the promise was revealed .
big pine lodge was enormous .
it was a dark brown log building three stories high .
it looked like paul bunyan had used giant lincoln logs to build it .
there was a huge porch across the entire front with two large porch swings to the right and the left of the double front doors .
the swings were gently swaying and the snow had blown little piles of downy drifts onto the seats .
the windows on the second and third floors were evenly spaced and the steeply pitched roof guaranteed an attic .
missy jumped out of the car and ran up the four wide steps to the lodges porch .
the front doors were larger than normal and carved with a scene of fish jumping out of a lake .
there was a large old fashioned keyhole .
there was no knocker or doorbell so missy started pounding on the door .
she even jiggled the doorknob and tried to look through the keyhole but something was stuffed in the other side .
i dont think anyone is going to answer , missy , her mom said .
look .
missy turned to see her mother pointing off to the left .
now that she was on the porch she could see a dozen small cabins nestled in the pines at the side of the lodge .
it looked like the lodge had had twelve identical babies .
they were cute little mini lodges , same style , same color .
each one had a stone chimney but only the first two had smoke , and , she now noticed , footprints .
her mother motioned for her to follow and said , he probably lives in the cabin during the winter and closes the lodge .
missy intently followed exactly in her mothers footprints in the snow but out of the corner of her eye she thought she saw a flash of red .
she stopped still and turned her head .
she only saw more pine trees and leafless oaks and maples .
it would be impossible to see very far into the woods when all the trees leafed out in the summer , she thought .
a person could really sneak around then .
but where would someone hide now ?
behind that fat pine ?
maybe .
her eyes followed the lines of the bark up the tree .
there were no lower branches to climb on but there was what looked like a platform on the strong upper branches high up .
another flash of red up there !
she was definitely being spied on .
missy ran to the base of the fat pine tree and circled it .
on the back side there were pieces of two by fours nailed at one foot intervals making a ladder up the old tree .
but from this side the platform above wasnt visible .
missy , come on !
her mother yelled .
missy crossed back over to her moms side , determined not to give the spy the satisfaction of a backward glance at the tree fort .
she kept her eyes straight ahead and was surprised to see that the lodge and all of the cabins were facing a beautiful little lake .
she could see a stone house on the far side but that was the only other residence on the lake .
they came around to the front of the cabin and knocked on the door .
they could hear a tv set go from loud to mute and then the door opened .
missy was half expecting an old santa claus or else a gruff old scrooge type but what she noticed first was a big grinning smile .
his teeth were white and probably false but the smile was so genuine and happy that she couldnt help but grin back at him .
you must be kimberly , he said to missys mother .
yes , im kim , mr. stark , and this is my daughter , your great granddaughter , missy .
oh , call me john .
and you , little missy , you can call me great grandpa .
or just great for short .
ha , ha , ha , ha !
his laugh was as infectious as his grin and missy liked him immediately .
his eyes , behind large glasses , were watery but friendly .
he had two hearing aids that were half hidden by a fringe of silver gray hair .
the top of his head was bald but he had a long gray beard and no mustache .
he had been a big man once but now he was a little bit stooped over .
such an old person should have a walker or at least a cane , but he moved away from the door and gestured them into the cabin quickly and smoothly .
they closed the door behind them and sat down on a green loveseat that was facing the fireplace .
the room was cozy but cramped .
besides the loveseat there was an old rocking chair , an easy chair , a tv , a computer desk and a hutch .
the room was open to the kitchen , which was just a wall with a stove , refrigerator , sink and a short counter .
a coffee pot , microwave , and toaster limited the workspace on the counter .
a small table and four wood chairs divided the kitchen and living room .
there was a door that led to the bathroom and bedroom but it was closed .
can i get you some coffee or hot chocolate ?
its already made .
i just have to stick it in the microwave .
he was already moving toward the kitchenette so they both agreed to hot chocolate .
they spent a half an hour getting acquainted and missy was actually thinking that this was fun and interesting .
she had learned that her great grandfather and great grandmother had built big pine lodge sixty years ago .
the original lodge was much smaller and had burned down many years ago but they had rebuilt it and added the cabins .
there was an owners apartment in the lodge that her great grandfather used when the lodge was open , april to september , but he said that as soon as the weather turned cold he would always move into the first cabin for the winter .
he got very sad sounding when he spoke of her great grandmother whom he referred to as the mrs. missy was curious to know what her name was and so she asked .
i called her missy , he said with a smile , but her real names a mystery .
he laughed that funny laugh of his again and missy laughed too .
she turned to her mom and asked , was i named after her ?
her mom looked puzzled and answered , maybe .
your dad and i had an agreement that i would get to name you if you were a boy and he would name you if you were a girl .
i always thought that maybe he had an old girlfriend by that name but i never asked .
old mr. stark just chuckled and said , another mystery .
we have lots of mysteries and secrets around here .
ill tell you a secret ill bet you never knew .
i knew your dad pretty well .
even though i havent spoken to my own son , your grandfather jacob , in forty years , his mother would bring him here when jacob went out of town on business .
sometimes they would stay for two weeks at a time but we would have to keep it a big secret .
it was hard to deceive jacob but your grandmother felt really strongly that your dad should know us .
now dont you go getting your grandmother into trouble by spilling the beans .
i never knew this , kim stark said .
missys dad sure was a loyal secret keeper .
yes , and when he was missys age he had a boxful of secrets , he laughed again and leaned forward in the easy chair , his beard nearly touching his lap .
he looked at missy and said , i want to talk to your mother a bit but you can go and explore the lodge if youd like .
ill get kevin to show you around .
without waiting for a reply or explaining who kevin was mr. stark eased out of the chair and opened the front door .
there was an old black triangle on a stand just outside the door and he took the metal gong rod and with a circular motion hit all three sides of the triangle a couple of times .
it was quite loud and echoed across the lake and back .
it wasnt ten seconds before a boy in a red jacket and jeans appeared at the door .
mr. stark introduced him as kevin jackson whose parents he employed as the lodges managers and general caretakers .
chapter 3 kevin , give missy the grand tour of the lodge , he said as he reached into his pocket and took out a large silver key .
it was on a chain with a penlight .
he handed it to kevin who nodded and turned to go out the door without waiting for missy .
she grabbed her coat and quickly followed .
kevin had stopped just outside the door and missy bumped into him .
im sorry , she said but he just smiled and started to walk toward the lodge .
he was slightly taller than missy and had dark brown curly hair .
hes either shy , stupid , or mute , missy thought .
she tried to think of something to say to start a conversation .
should she ask him if he was the one at the little fort spying at them ?
should she say something about the tree fort ?
no , no , instead she just asked , so , where do you live ?
we live past the last cabin , through the woods , and in back of the stables .
its a two bedroom cottage .
weve lived there as long as i can remember .
my mom runs the lodge pretty much , handles the reservations , oversees the maids , the cooks , and the waitresses and my dad takes care of the grounds and maintenance stuff .
i work , too , he said proudly , i run the snack shack on the beach .
well , she thought , hes not shy , stupid , or mute .
he had rattled all that information off so fast that she had to think a minute before she could get her questions out .
they had reached the covered porch of the lodge but he was leading her around to a side door , much smaller and less ornate than the main entrance .
he turned the key in the lock and opened the door , then walked through first and flipped on the lights .
they were in a small entryway .
missy closed the door and said , wait , wait , slow down .
there are stables here ?
horses ?
not anymore .
but the stable used to have a dozen horses that the guests could rent .
at least thats what mr. stark told me .
the stable is empty now , just some old tack and stuff in there and junk .
and you said there were cooks and waitresses ?
yeah , theres a huge dining room for the guests to have breakfast , lunch and dinner in .
come on , ill show you .
he led the way down a short passageway that opened into a large restaurant style kitchen .
he turned on more lights that reflected off the stainless steel of the sinks , counters , and refrigerators .
they walked by several empty bins and then kevin pushed open the double swinging doors that led to a wonderful dining room .
there were four chandeliers made from deer antlers and several wall sconces but kevin didnt turn on any lights since there was plenty of light coming in through six large picture windows facing the lovely lake .
there were eight round tables with their chairs placed upside down on top .
missy walked over to the windows and looked out .
the lake was the central focus of the view but to the left there was a swing set and slide and to the right there was a small building with a sign that said snack shack .
thats where you work ?
yeah , kevin answered .
i sell soft drinks , candy , and ice cream in the afternoons .
mr. stark lets me keep all of the profits .
you cant tell now but all of that space there without trees is a really nice sand beach .
the guests love it , and this summer were going to hire a lifeguard .
missy was beginning to think that this would be a really great place to spend the summer , or at least two weeks , like her dad did .
come on , ill show you more .
kevin gave her a little tug on the sleeve and started toward the other end of the dining room .
there were two sets of french doors on either side of a two sided stone fireplace .
they went through the doors on the left and entered another room the same size as the dining room .
it was a combination lobby living room .
there was a counter for customers to check in at near the front doors .
there was one grouping of couches and chairs around the fireplace and another grouping around a big screen tv .
a wide staircase led to a landing and turned to continue on up .
off that way is the owners apartment that mr. stark lives in but my mom thinks hes going to let us live there this season .
down the other hall are the employees bedrooms , two to a room like a college dorm .
and check this out over here .
kevin walked straight to the bottom of the stairs and opened a small , three foot high door to a small space under the stairs and landing .
a little light went on automatically , like opening the refrigerator , and there was a string to pull to switch on another brighter light bulb .
missy peered in .
it was full of pre school toys , a tiny table , and two little chairs .
cute , she said .
it hides the rug rats .
thats not all it hides , kevin said with a little smirk on his face .
you want to see the guests rooms ?
sure .
they backed out of the small space and kevin bounded up the doublewide staircase two steps at a time .
there was a large landing with a bench , a bookcase , and a brightly lit wall sconce and then the steps continued up to the second floor .
it was rather dark in the hallway with all of the rooms doors closed .
kevin went to the first door and pushed it open .
it was charming .
the carpet was a forest green but there were throw rugs with bright , colorful scenes .
the walls were paneled in light knotty pine .
the dresser was made of pine , too , and the drawers handles looked like small branches .
the two double beds were separated by a pine table with a deer antler lamp .
there were a table and two chairs near the windows which were framed by heavy green drapes .
behind the door on the left was a bathroom .
missy walked to the window and looked out .
she could see the little cabins , the lake , the snack shack , the stone cottage on the other side of the lake and something else off in the distance to the right .
whats that ?
she pointed .
good eye , kevin responded , its the closest thing we have to a mountain around here .
we call it mount rocky .
ive gone there climbing a bunch with my dad .
its pretty cool .
kevin looked shyly at her and said , maybe you could go with us when youre here for the summer .
missy was confused .
im not going to be here for the summer .
my mom works hard but i know we couldnt afford to stay here .
kevin had that smirk on his face like he knew something that she didnt know .
all he said was , well see .
he turned and headed for the door saying over his shoulder , the rest of the rooms on this floor are pretty much like this one but the third floor rooms are really nice .
she followed him again and this time she took the stairs to the third floor two at a time , too .
he didnt open the first room they came to but instead walked to the end of the hall and opened the second to the last door .
it was a two room suite , much larger and brighter .
the ceiling seemed higher , too .
again missy went to the window and looked out .
now she could see the mountain better .
it would be so cool to stay here and explore , she thought .
kevin was pointing to the left .
see that trail past the last cabin ?
that leads to the stables and where i live .
oh , she paused , well , anything else to see here ?
whats behind that last door ?
it didnt seem like theres enough room there for another suite .
its a linen room .
.
.
and the way to the attic .
whats up there ?
ghosts .
missy rolled her eyes .
yeah , right .
you afraid ?
kevin wasnt about to be teased by a girl .
he reached for the knob but it wouldnt turn .
its locked .
so open it , youve got a key .
this was the key to the side door , it wont open the linen closet .
he jangled the silver key and penlight in front of her face .
how do you know if you dont try ?
she grabbed the key from his hand and stuck it roughly in the keyhole .
she wiggled it back and forth and pushed on the door .
it flew open .
she wasnt about to tell him that the door was still locked , it just hadnt been closed all the way .
there were shelves and shelves of sheets , blankets , towels , soap , and toilet paper .
looking up they could see that they would have a big problem getting into the attic .
there was no cord to pull on to lower the fold down ladder .
they would need a pole with a hook on the end to catch the metal ring on the attic door .
darn , missy said , i really would have loved to explore an old attic .
well , kevin paused , if you really want to get in there , there is another way .
but its kind of scary .
he hesitated , and i dont know if i should show you .
its a secret mr. stark showed me .
my parents dont even know .
now missy really wanted to know .
she said , but im family .
he wouldnt mind .
well .
.
.
okay .
he laughed and challenged her to a race down the stairs .
she bounded after him but it was no contest when he leaped onto the banister and slid to the first landing .
hey , no fair !
she hollered .
she hopped onto the banister and slid , much more slowly , after him .
when they reached the lobby living room he went back to the little room under the stairs .
in here .
he lifted a poster of snoopy and revealed a narrow door .
it was latched at the top where a toddler couldnt reach , but kevin easily unhooked it .
this is where the penlight comes in handy .
he switched it on and started up a steep circular metal stairway .
it was like a long firehouse pole with narrow steel steps bolted to it .
there was no railing and missy went up only three steps before she started grabbing the next steps with her hands and sort of crab crawled upwards .
after a few more feet she looked up at kevin who had stopped and was looking straight down on her between the steps .
scary , huh ?
he smirked .
the light from below didnt reach much past his head and she couldnt see the top but there were two pinpricks of light coming through the wall about one third and two thirds of the way up .
she wasnt sure if she went up she would be able to get back down .
she thought she would have to come back backwards on her hands and knees , as there was no way she could walk forward and twist and turn around the pole .
yeah , this is pretty scary , she confessed .
i dont know if i want to do this anymore .
kevin switched on the penlight and shined it at the wall .
see that hole ?
that light is coming in where the lamp on the wall is at the first landing .
you can spy on people , listen to them , see what theyre reading .
its kind of fun .
come on .
missy wasnt tempted .
maybe if there had been someone to spy on she would have found the courage but she just plain felt scared .
her mother had drilled into that if she didnt feel right about something , she shouldnt do it .
trust yourself , her mom would say , people have instincts just like animals .
i dont think so , was all that missy said .
luckily kevin wasnt the sort of kid who would bully someone and he seemed to understand her fear .
okay , you go back and take the stairs .
ill go up this way and open the trap door ladder from the attic .
missy inched her way backwards and managed to turn herself around for the last few steps .
she ran up the first flight and a half and stopped at the second landing to see if she could find where the light was coming through .
kevin !
she yelled .
can you hear me ?
she knocked on the wall .
his muffled voice came back , yeah , look through the hole under the bottom screw on the light .
she put her face up to the wall and pressed her right cheek to the metal .
it was dark and she couldnt see a thing through the wall when suddenly kevin shined the penlight directly into her pupil .
she jumped back .
hey !
she could hear kevin laughing on the other side .
on the third floor she went to the end of the hall where they had left the door to the linen room open .
she could hear his footsteps above her and then the attic door swung open and the ladder came down .
it was a lot easier to climb than the spiral stairs and she scampered up them easily .
kevin had moved to the side and was reaching for a string that turned on a light bulb overhead .
then he walked past her to the other side and turned on another one .
a small amount of light was coming in through some vents .
this is a good time to explore , he said , because its about a hundred degrees up here in the summer .
show me where you came up the hidden staircase , missy said .
he led her over to the front middle of the large expanse and pointed the penlight at a trap door in the floor .
there was no handle , just a knothole in the wood that served as a finger hold to lift the door .
i can see why its a secret , she said .
its practically invisible .
missy turned and looked around the attic .
she saw a lot of big boxes , two trunks , a crib , four mattresses , and some old furniture .
near the far wall the floor and several shelves were littered with odd looking mechanical things , some quite large .
the trunks looked the most interesting , however .
one was gray with a big keyhole but it wasnt locked .
inside she found a fur coat .
genuine muskrat , the tag said .
this is cool , she said .
she put the coat on and knelt back down at the trunk .
there was a packet of papers tied with a string , a small metal box full of medals , an old photo album and some yellowed newspapers .
she thumbed through the album and put it back .
one newspaper was dated thirty years ago but she didnt check the other ones .
she put everything back except the muskrat coat and turned her attention to the other trunk .
kevin had already opened it and was taking things out a dress , two hats , some strange looking pants .
ooooo , missy said , i know what those are .
those are old fashioned riding pants .
theyre kind of puffed out at the sides and tight below the knees .
must be from when they had the stables filled with horses .
they rode english style not western .
there were more articles of clothing in the trunk and at the bottom they found nicely framed pictures of people .
some were in color but most of them were in black and white .
they didnt recognize anyone in the pictures but missy suspected that the tall gentleman with the black beard was probably her great grandfather , which would mean that the lady next to him was her great grandmother .
she was very pretty and mysterious looking .
they put everything back and closed the trunks lid .
missy was thinking that this weekend had turned out pretty fun after all .
she liked kevin and he seemed to be easy to get along with even though a few times he acted like he knew more than she did .
she smiled to herself and ran her hands up and down the arms of the fur coat .
it was so soft .
there were big pockets on the sides and she reached her fingers into them .
she could feel the silk lining in each but the left one had a small tear in the seam .
she slipped her arms out of the coat and took it off .
she folded it in half like it had been and put it back in the first trunk .
as she patted it down to fit into the trunk she felt something hard in the hem .
she pressed the object between her fingers trying to determine what it was .
hey , kevin , she called , come here .
kevin got up from the floor where he was looking through a box marked comic books .
feel this , missy said and held up the bottom of the coat .
feels like a key .
i think it was in the pocket and slipped through a hole .
i wonder what it opens .
she had already reached one hand into the pocket and was working the key towards it with the other hand .
there !
i got it !
she pulled out a most strange looking key .
just then they could hear that clanging sound made by the triangle on mr. starks porch .
oh , oh , kevin said , wed better get back .
he ran over to the lights and pulled the strings to turn them off .
missy went down the attic ladder first .
when kevin reached the bottom he gave the ladder a push and the whole thing sprang back up .
it banged loudly .
oh , well , kevin said , no big deal .
when they got back to the cabin they were red faced and panting .
kevin kept on trotting past the cabin and yelled , bye !
see you this summer !
missy didnt know what to say so she just waved and said , see ya .
she still held the strange key in her hand when she entered the cabin .
mom , wait till you see the lodge .
it is awesome .
she removed her shoes and jacket and held out her hand to reveal the odd key .
look what we found in an old fur coat in the attic .
her great grandfather grinned .
finders keepers , he said .
maybe youll want to keep that in this treasure box .
it was your fathers when he was a boy .
he was holding out a wooden puzzle box about the size of a large shoebox .
missy reached out her hands and took the box .
may i keep it ?
she asked .
of course , he answered .
but ive got to warn you , ive forgotten how to open it .
your dad and i made that together a long time ago .
i have no idea what treasures or secrets he had in there .
you have to move the pieces in just the right sequence or it wont open .
good luck .
missy was intrigued .
she wanted to start working on the mystery immediately but her mother was saying something about getting their bag out of the car and settling in to the second cabin .
they were going to spend the night .
thank you so much , great grandpa .
and i really like your lodge .
this is a cool place but dont you get lonely in the winter ?
he chuckled .
i dont have time .
im always busy making something , tinkering with something , inventing something .
.
.
making more secrets and mysteries .
he laughed again .
and ive really gotten attached to that computer there , too .
pretty good for an old man , huh ?
yeah , missy agreed , i didnt think hundred year old people used computers .
missys mothers face looked stricken and the old man seemed not able to suck in any air .
then suddenly he laughed the most uproarious laugh of all .
is that how old you think i am ?
maybe i should shave this beard and stick it on top of my head !
ive got more than a dozen years before i see one hundred .
but thats okay .
did kevin tell you to say that ?
he was still laughing but missy was embarrassed .
she didnt mean to offend him .
well , at least he didnt seem offended but she couldnt get an apology out of her mouth or even a word in defense of kevin .
her mother rescued her by blaming the misunderstanding on something she had heard about how old the lodge was .
she managed to turn the whole thing into a compliment about how he must have been a really smart businessman at an early age to have been able to afford to build the lodge .
actually that wasnt so far from the truth .
apparently he had been , and maybe still was , a gifted inventor .
something he had patented as a young man was still bringing in money .
they stayed that night in the second little cabin and had a nice breakfast with mr. stark on sunday morning .
she didnt see kevin again but shyly asked her great grandfather a few questions about him .
oh , ill just let him answer your questions when you come back in june , he said .
missy looked quickly at her mother who was smiling and nodding her head .
you can stay a week , two weeks , the whole summer if you want , her mom was saying .
its up to you .
your great grandfather and i discussed this yesterday .
but you have to work in the kitchen some mornings and help the maids , too .
what do you think ?
would you like to spend the summer at big pine lodge ?
youll stay in one of the maids rooms , her great grandfather added .
are you coming , too , mom ?
she asked .
weekends and one week in august .
great !
missy hooted .
great !
this will be really fun .
chapter 4 the rest of the school year went quickly for missy .
she wore the strange key on a silver chain around her neck as if it were a pendant .
she worked on trying to open the puzzle box everyday after her homework was done .
after three weeks of getting nowhere with it she went to the public library and started researching puzzle boxes .
she found a book on antiques that showed many beautiful examples but no clues on how to open them .
the head media specialist helped her search the internet and they found a site that offered a book of instructions on how to construct your own .
the specialist was so intrigued that she ordered a copy for the library and put a hold on it in missys name .
missy had to wait impatiently another three weeks before it came in .
it was a warm day in early may and missy had unsuccessfully compared almost all of the construction plans to her fathers box when she came upon one that seemed similar .
she looked at the end product and worked backwards through the assembly to visualize the sequence to open the box .
she took out a notebook and wrote down the steps as she moved and turned and twisted and lifted the individual pieces .
slowly the box seemed to be opening and she had a dozen pieces spread out on her bedroom floor , but the final piece would not slide or budge .
she sat staring at it until it occurred to her that if her crafty great grandfather had been an inventor he probably would have made this box to be unique .
the last piece wouldnt slide or turn or twist or lift off so she did exactly what you wouldnt expect she pushed the piece in hard .
wow , she thought , i got it !
pushing in the last piece triggered a tiny mechanism to release a hinge on the side of the box .
it literally fell open like the trapdoor leading to the lodges attic .
she poured the treasured objects out onto the carpet .
her father had thought that these items were precious enough to hide away in a box almost impossible to open and this was a moment that she could feel really connected to him .
there were seven things .
first there was an old photo of a girl about thirteen or fourteen .
it was a school picture and on the back was written ill never forget how scared we were in the caves !
see you next summer , mary .
this was interesting .
it was hard to think of her parents ever being her age , having friends , even being scared .
she wondered if her dad had liked mary in a special way and if they had seen each other the next summer .
the next item answered that question .
it was an old newspaper clipping about a drowning .
the victims name was mary gowen and the picture of her was the same school photo .
how sad !
her father must have felt really bad .
the article said that her body was never recovered .
the next four items in the puzzle box seemed sentimental a badminton birdie , a broken wishbone , a perfectly round skipping stone , and a tiny silver hat from a monopoly game .
the last thing was a swiss army knife full of all sorts of gadgets .
she had never held one in her hand before though she had seen her uncle use one to help open packages at christmas .
she turned the knife over and over in her hands and pulled out all the little tools one by one .
she couldnt identify a few of the thingamajigs but she thought that she could ask her great grandfather all about the knife and about the girl who drowned when she spent the summer at the lodge .
it was still a month away but missy was getting more excited with every passing day .
she carefully returned all of the articles to the puzzle box and closed the side hatch .
she followed the directions she had written out to put the box back together .
every day she practiced opening and closing the box until she could do it without the instructions and do it fast .
on the night before the drive up to big pine lodge she took the key from the chain around her neck and added it to the treasures in the puzzle box .
she hardly slept a wink that night .
chapter 5 the long drive up to the lodge seemed to be shorter this time as missy and her mom chatted nonstop .
they would both miss the other a lot and they were doing all of their summer talks at once .
missy poured her heart out about the school year that had just ended and her mother gave her the appropriate sympathies .
missy hadnt shared the knowledge of the contents of her fathers treasure box with her mom yet so while her moms eyes were fixed on the highway she opened it .
she read the newspaper clipping aloud and her mom glanced over at the photo of mary .
her husband had never told her anything about the lodge so she wasnt surprised that hed never spoken of this friend .
she laughed when she saw the other items and told missy that when they were dating they used to play monopoly and he had always insisted on being the hat .
they both were silent for a while as each wished that she could talk with him now .
missy put everything back into the box and closed it up just as they exited the highway .
the scenery was certainly different from that snowy day in march .
when they saw the starkville sign they knew they werent far .
there was a new sign at the last turn announcing big pine lodge , open may to september , turn here .
the road seemed even narrower than it did before since all the ferns along the side leaned into the lane as if they wanted to touch every visitors car .
mrs. stark was nervous again about meeting up with another car but missy was in awe of the surrounding forest .
the pine trees that had been so prominent in march were less visible now that the maple and oak trees had completely leafed out .
as they passed the fort it was half obscured by the two foot high ferns .
missy rolled down her window and breathed in the warm mid june air .
there was a distinct aroma to the woods that was very appealing and the songs of the birds were amazing .
one in particular sounded so haunting that she thought it was warning her off .
just then her mother stepped hard on the brakes .
three deer darted across the lane and disappeared instantly in the thick woods .
wow .
that was close .
and i was worried about hitting another car , her mom said .
they drove up to the front of the lodge and parked .
kevin was on a porch swing waiting and immediately jumped up and waved .
he scampered down the steps and greeted them with a grin , hi !
come on .
ill take you to your great grandfather .
he hasnt been feeling well .
ill show you your room .
youre going to love it here .
wait til you see what we made .
he had so much to say he rattled it out faster than they could hear it all .
hi , kevin .
whats wrong with mr. stark ?
missys mom asked hi , kevin .
whatd you make ?
missy asked at the same time .
kevin slowed down and answered mrs. stark first .
hes been having some trouble breathing but the doctor said not to worry , it was the stress of opening for another season .
hes in the dining room now .
he looked at missy and said , you wont believe it .
mr. stark helped me make an elevator for the tree house .
and its invisible so you have to know the secret to work it .
sounds cool , missy smiled .
kevin helped them with their bags and led them first to missys room .
it was in the servants wing on the first floor .
youre sharing with angela , kevin said , pushing the door open .
she left it unlocked for you .
shes finishing up in the kitchen now .
they set the bags on the second twin bed and said , youll like angela .
she just finished her freshman year at college and shes the nicest one of the five maids .
but youll like them all .
theres danielle , lindsay , courtney , and alicia .
they wait tables , clean rooms , and make beds .
they rotate chores .
theres a schedule right there .
he pointed to a paper on the nightstand .
they all have the afternoons off until 5 oclock when they help with the buffet .
so youll be able to meet them in a little while .
missy picked up the schedule .
her name was on it , too , but her duties ended before noon .
it didnt look too hard and she felt good about earning her keep free meals and room and freedom for the summer .
it occurred to her at that moment that she was going to be as independent as one of these college girls .
her mother must have been reading her mind .
you still have a bedtime , missy .
ive already talked to mrs. jackson , kevins mom , on the phone and you are to check in with her throughout the day .
okay ?
without waiting for an answer mrs. stark looked at kevin and asked when they could meet his mother .
kevin jumped off the end of the wooden footboard of the twin bed he had been perched on and motioned for them to follow him .
shes probably going over receipts with your great grandfather .
theyre in the dining room .
they followed him down the hallway and through the lovely reception area living room .
mrs. stark hadnt seen it before and slowed her pace down to take in the detail of the quaint lodge .
they entered the dining room where there were still a few people finishing up lunch .
at the table nearest the kitchen sat mrs. jackson and john stark .
mrs. jackson was a nice looking lady with medium length brown hair .
she was wearing khaki pants , a red shirt with the name of the lodge on the front , and a belt that held a beeper , a phone , and a huge ring of keys .
she had the same smile as kevin and stood up to greet them .
after the introductions were completed they all sat around the table and chatted for a while .
missy thought that her great grandfather looked paler but he acted the same as before .
his beard was trimmed up quite a bit , though .
he seemed as excited as kevin to show her the tree fort elevator so the three of them left the two mothers and went outside .
youre not going to believe this , said kevin .
he and missy had run ahead of mr. stark and were at the base of the tree .
missy walked around and around the tree .
she could see the platform high above and the steps on the one side .
the steps had rope coming down along each side , but where was the elevator ?
all right , she said , i give up .
whats the joke ?
mr. stark joined them and was coughing a little bit but smiling .
show her , kevin .
kevin pointed to the bark at the bottom of the tree .
look really close .
missy knelt down in the thin grass and got close to the ground .
now she could see that the bark appeared fake .
she reached her left hand out and felt up and down the bark of the tree .
she could feel a difference .
stumped ?
kevin asked .
ha !
mr. stark laughed .
kevin you made a joke !
yeah , im stumped .
whats the trick ?
i can feel a difference , though , missy said .
mr. stark steadied himself on the tree trunk while kevin pressed two spots on the left of where missys hand had been and two spots on the right .
suddenly a one foot by two foot section of false bark popped free of the tree and the ropes along the steps swung out .
kevin stepped onto the tiny platform and held the ropes .
the elevator started to ascend .
missy , open mouthed , stared upward , this is so cool !
kevin reached the top and called down , your great grandfather knows everything about pulleys and weights and levers and mechanisms .
this project only took us two weeks this spring .
he was on his way back down now and missy was eager to try it out .
you better sit on it like a swing the first time , legs out away from the tree .
missy rode it several times sitting down and then dared to go up standing , facing the tree .
that way she could step out onto the fort above and check it out , too .
she felt just a little dizzy but swallowed hard and took a deep breath .
the view from the fort wasnt what she expected .
there were so many leaves that she couldnt see much , but then no one could see her either .
she realized that it was really pretty nice of kevin to share this place with her .
maybe he didnt have any more friends than she did .
she heard them laughing below and then the sound of her great grandfather coughing .
the coughing seemed to get fainter and fainter as if he were heading back to the lodge .
suddenly kevin appeared .
he had climbed up the steps .
oh , you startled me , missy said .
sorry , but you didnt send the elevator back .
im thinking we should get rid of the steps so no one can sneak up .
what do you think ?
missy was pleased that he was asking for her opinion .
they sat up there and talked about forts and spying , her duties , his snack shop job , school , parents , and just about anything that came to mind .
missy learned a lot more about her great grandfather and the lodge .
the stark land , woods , lodge , lake and all , covered two square miles .
she started to ask about swimming and boating in the lake when kevin got a funny look on his face and said , oh , oh , ive got to open the snack shack !
he helped her into the elevator then took the steps .
he showed her how to press the bark platform back into its hiding place then waved as he hurried around the lodge to the beach .
missy smiled to herself and then looked all around at the beautiful surroundings .
when she looked up at the lodge she saw a face in one of the windows looking down at her .
he was maybe a high school boy , fifteen , sixteen .
his hair was longish and he didnt look pleasant .
he was squinting at her from the third floor and she felt very uncomfortable .
had he seen the elevator ?
you have finished the first 5 chapters of the secret in the hidden cave .
this book is available in paperback and online in digital e book format .
it is the first in big pine lodge series and is followed by mysterys grave and bullies and bears .
next up is a sampling of the first 5 chapters from bullies and bears .
bullies and bears chapter 1 at the side of the narrow road leading in to big pine lodge was an old wooden structure .
real logs had been set vertically into the ground and their tops had been cut into points .
there were small slit like window openings on the two sides that could be seen from the road .
missy was enthralled with the crude structure .
it was about the size of a kids playhouse .
it would be a neat place to spy on visitors , she had thought the first time she had driven by with her mother last march .
there had been snow on the ground then and she had seen kevins tracks .
he had turned out to be a good friend to her when she had moved up to big pine lodge in june , but he had been spying on her back then .
right now she and kevin were settling into the little fort with a picnic lunch of sandwiches , cheese , and bottled water .
kevin had warned her that the guests arriving for the fourth of july week included a bunch of teenage boys that werent exactly nice and they were watching for their arrival from the fort .
missys great grandfather owned big pine lodge .
it was a quaint resort on a small lake and boasted a large lodge , several smaller cabins and lots of fun things to do .
there were caves that ran under the lake , old indian graves and settlers ruins , and , to missys great delight , a stable of horses that she was in charge of .
kevins parents ran the lodge as employees of mr. starks and kevin earned spending money by selling snacks and drinks on the beach .
the two twelve year olds had already this summer been involved in two adventures .
first they had discovered ancient pictographs in the caves and found hidden entrances to the caves themselves .
later they had helped capture wild bobcats that were scaring the lodges guests .
missy had made several friends this summer , but after a week or two their vacations were over and they would go back to their homes .
missy was glad she got along so well with kevin or she would have been very lonely staying with just her great grandfather .
her mother was back in the city working and would visit occasionally .
missys dad had died when she was four , but he had grown up coming here .
for missy , working here in the summer was a way for her to kind of get to know him .
she had already learned a lot about him from a diary her great grandmother had left as well as a secret puzzle box that her father had used to hide things that were special to him .
hey , kevin said , can i borrow your swiss army knife a second ?
missy pulled it out of her pocket and handed it over .
it was the most useful thing that her dad had left in the secret puzzle box .
the other items had been more sentimental a school picture of a friend , a newspaper article , a round skipping stone , a badminton birdie , a broken wishbone and a tiny silver hat from a monopoly game .
she had taken the items out often and thought about her dad .
it was weird to think of him being her age , but it was an interesting change to just knowing him through her moms wedding photos .
kevin used one of the gadgets on the knife to pry off the plastic seal on his bottle then passed it back to missy .
this fort would be really cool if it had a roof , missy said as she unwrapped her sandwich .
my dad uses it in the fall as a deer blind .
he got a six point buck last year , kevin said .
missy was a little upset to think that people could shoot those beautiful animals , but kevin seemed proud and added , next year im taking a hunter safety class so i can hunt , too .
missy just nodded and kept her feelings to herself .
she took a big bite so she wouldnt have to answer and swiveled on her pine stump perch to glance out one of the little spying windows .
a car was coming .
they could hear the crunch of gravel as it turned onto the little lane that led to the lodge .
a second crunch indicated that another vehicle was following the first .
kevin pulled up two large ferns and thrust one at missy .
they held the ferns in front of their faces as camouflage as they peered out at the passing cars .
the first one held two sets of parents , none of whom even glanced at the fort .
the second car bounced along with its windows open and four boys laughing and cursing inside .
the one in the front passenger seat pointed at the fort and from the back seat another boy stuck first his head out the window and then his hand .
he flicked the butt of a cigarette toward the fort and yelled , we see you !
missy ducked down and dropped the fern , but kevin stayed steady .
the car rambled on and the noise of the boisterous teens faded .
kevin scolded missy , you shouldnt have moved , missy , they couldnt see us .
they were just guessing that id be here .
they yelled that last year , but i was in the tree on the other side of the road .
theyre such jerks .
rob had his license last summer and now it looks like dave does , too .
dave was the one driving ?
missy asked .
i couldnt see him .
who was the one who threw out the cigarette ?
that was lonnie .
hes not too bad , but his brother dave is mean .
and the other two brothers , rob and rick , are just plain weird .
i dont trust them .
theyll do whatever dave tells them to do .
like what ?
like the first summer both families came up together they tied me to a tree and piled up campfire wood around me .
they would have lit it , too , but dave had kept the matches in his pocket and had gone swimming earlier so they were too wet to light .
what did your parents do when they found out ?
i didnt tell them because dave said hed get me if i did .
missy thought about that for a minute and glanced back out the little window toward the road .
oh , no !
she screamed .
she leaped up and grabbed kevins open water bottle and ran out the back of the fort .
she skirted around it and stopped where the cigarette had landed and started pouring the water on the small fire that had started in the dry leaves .
that was close !
she exclaimed as kevin reached her .
they both stomped around on the ground until they were sure there werent any sparks left that would start another fire .
man , that would have been a disaster , kevin said , brushing back a lock of his curly brown hair that had fallen in his eyes .
were going to have to watch those jerks all the time .
no telling what theyll do .
lets be sneaky about it , missy said , i dont want to get tied up and burned .
right .
the adults were unloading the luggage from the trunks of both cars while the four boys , dave and rob in the lead , headed around the lodge to the beach .
no way were they going to help by carrying stuff in .
they got out of earshot as fast as they could .
dave pointed at a couple of girls on the beach and made a rude comment about one to rob who laughed loudly .
lonnie and ricky pushed past them and ran for the canoes .
i dont think so , little brothers , dave yelled .
he punched rob on the arm .
come on .
lets beat them .
the older boys quickly outpaced the younger ones and reached the pair of canoes first .
they shoved one canoe out then jumped into the second one and started paddling .
as they came along side the first canoe dave reached out and tipped it over with the paddle .
they laughed as they watched it fill with water and sink .
hey , im telling dad youre not wearing life jackets , lonnie hollered .
his older brother , dave , just looked back and raised up one finger .
jerk , lonnie muttered .
ricky had already removed his socks and shoes and told lonnie to do the same .
come on , he said , we can still get the canoe .
its not deep there .
from the back porch of the lodge old mr. stark stood shaking his head .
he dreaded seeing these two families return to the lodge each year .
the boys were nothing but trouble and the parents were loud partiers and never disciplined their sons .
already he could see people near the shore picking up their beach towels and relocating to a quieter spot .
kevins parents , the jacksons , would have to smooth things over with the other guests when the complaints started coming in .
if things didnt improve this year he would just have to double the rates for them , though getting twice as much money might not be worth it .
hi , great grandpa , missy said as she and kevin came around the lodge .
hi , mr. stark , kevin added , then stopped to stare out at the boys in the canoes .
hey , theyre not wearing life preservers .
should i go get dad ?
old mr. stark made a grunt like sound then said , dont bother , kevin , ill go say something to their parents .
he reached out and touched missys shoulder affectionately and smiled at her as he turned toward the door .
then he muttered , not that itll do any good with those rapscallions .
after the door closed kevin asked missy , whats a rapscallion ?
she just shrugged her shoulders .
guess its something bad .
out on the lake ricky was holding onto the canoe , which was now floating upright , while lonnie was retrieving the paddles from the shoreline .
the older boys were almost halfway across the small lake heading straight for the little stone cottage on the other side .
lonnie and daves mother , mrs. gilbert , came out of the lodge holding four life vests and shouting in a shrill voice , you boys get back here and put these life jackets on !
the younger boys protested that they could swim just fine and didnt need them .
rules are rules , now you behave .
put these on and take the other two out to your brothers .
lonnie and ricky looked at each other and mumbled something that kevin and missy , who were watching intently , couldnt hear .
mrs. gilbert hurried toward the lake and hollered to the older boys out on the water .
we cant hear you !
they hollered back and kept paddling .
she shouted louder and they just kept paddling away .
kevin rolled his eyes at missy and said , man , would i be in trouble if i lied to my parents like that .
me , too .
the younger boys pulled the canoe onto the beach and dropped the paddles .
were gon na check out the trails , mom .
see ya , lonnie said and he and ricky slipped their shoes and socks back on and raced off towards the woods .
mrs. gilbert just stood there for a moment debating whether or not to keep yelling at the older boys .
finally she turned around and carried the jackets back to the lodge .
what do you think theyll do in the woods ?
missy asked kevin .
i dont know , but im more worried about dave and rob .
theyre headed for the stone cottage and the entrance to the caves .
theyre such jerks that theyd probably love to ruin the ancient drawings that are down there , once they find out about them .
kevin glanced toward the trail along the beach .
i bet i know where the younger brothers are going .
if they run they can beat the canoes to the other side .
come on , lets go follow them .
without a seconds hesitation missy took off after kevin .
the hard packed earth on the trail was easy to run on as long as they didnt trip on any of the roots or rocks that littered the path .
they slowed down every time the trail took a sharp turn , but otherwise they kept a pretty fast pace with kevin in the lead .
there were several other trails that forked off and led to various destinations such as the indian graves and the old settlers ruins , but they kept taking the left fork , staying close to the lake .
tell me again which one is which ?
missy said .
kevin took a moment to think of the best way to describe them then told her that she could remember easiest by linking the first letter of their names to a feature .
dave was dark .
he had dark hair and eyes and a dark personality .
his brother lonnie was little .
he was the shortest of the four .
his hair was more of reddish brown and he actually looked like he belonged in rob and rickys family instead .
rob and ricky had the same first initial and were both red heads , but ricky , the younger brother had freckles and was still a little pudgy .
okay , missy said , i think ive got them straight .
they almost caught up to lonnie and ricky when the trail opened up to the yard around the stone cottage .
kevin slowed down before they reached the open area and he and missy ducked down behind a big boulder that was wedged between two large oak trees .
they could see the seventeen year olds just reaching the shore in the canoe while the fifteen year olds were standing at the door to the cottage yelling at their older brothers .
man , are you slow !
lonnie shouted .
yeah , you row like girls , ricky added .
you row a boat .
you paddle a canoe , you a holes .
dave yelled .
yeah , youre the little girls here , you morons .
just wait till we get you !
rob added .
he and dave tossed the paddles on the shore after they beached the canoe and started racing to the cottage .
lonnie and ricky ducked inside and ricky opened the trap door to the cellar , but lonnie grabbed rickys sleeve and pulled him away from the opening .
he motioned for him to follow him and they slipped around the corner and hid in what was once a small bedroom .
they were quiet and motionless when they heard their brothers barge into the front room and scramble down the ladder into the cellar and the access to the caves .
lonnie looked at ricky and whispered , lets put something heavy on the trap door so they cant get out .
what if somebody else is down there ?
so ?
is there another way out ?
who cares ?
somebodyll come along sooner or later .
shhh .
wait .
i think i heard something .
missy and kevin creaked the front door open and tiptoed into the cottage .
they were whispering , too .
kevin checked the box of flashlights that they kept there and counted how many were left .
theyre all here , he whispered .
they didnt know about the flashlights .
theyll probably use their cigarette lighters or one of the candles that are in the cellar .
he handed missy a small flashlight and she tucked it into her back pocket .
i dont think i want to go down there , she said .
im not scared .
i just dont think its a good idea .
kevin picked up a large flashlight and was about to whisper back when ricky and lonnie stepped around the corner .
well , well , well , lonnie said , if it isnt little mr. jackson , son of big mr. jackson .
look , ricky , the little snot nosed kid got himself a girlfriend .
down the hatch , you two , ricky said , gesturing toward the trap door .
lonnie reached out and grabbed the flashlight out of kevins hand then pushed him toward the opening .
ladies first , he said , still pushing kevin ahead of missy .
missy followed , but was able to keep facing them so they couldnt see the flashlight in her back pocket .
she said nothing as she climbed down .
she didnt even dare to look them in the eye though she was mad and scared and her heart was fluttering faster than a hummingbirds wings .
when she reached the bottom she backed away from the ladder and bumped into kevin just as the trap door was closed above them and they were thrust into darkness .
chapter 2 a large black bear waded across a shallow stream a mile northeast of big pine lodge .
two cute and playful cubs followed her into the water , snapping at each other and biting at the water as well .
the mother bear never checked to see if her babies were following her .
maybe she knew from their sounds or their scent or maybe she just knew because they hadnt been more than a hundred feet away from her since they came out of hibernation four months ago .
she had traveled farther from her cave than ever before in her quest for more and more food .
something was drawing her southwest , perhaps a whiff of wild blueberries reaching the end of their ripening in this warm july weather .
or perhaps she could smell the rotting fish guts that mr. jackson regularly threw out for the raccoons after he cleaned fish caught by the lodges guests .
whatever the reason , the mother bear was slowly and surely heading for big pine lodge as if she were a regular guest with a standing reservation .
missy and kevin stood like statues listening to the two jerks above them struggle to drag a rusty old wood stove over the trap door .
ricky and lonnie laughed loudly and made a point of stomping out of the cottage and slamming the door .
they laughed their way to the shore where they picked up the paddles and helped themselves to the canoe .
they took their time returning to the lodge , paddling slowly along the shore instead of cutting across the lake , glancing back at the stone cottage from time to time and laughing their heads off .
theyre gone , kevin said , but their stupid brothers are down here .
now that our eyes have adjusted to the dark maybe we can see the glow of their lighters and know which tunnel they took .
missy nodded though kevin could not see that , then she whispered , i still have the little flashlight .
we can take the tunnels under the lake and come up through the trapdoor in the lodges playroom .
they had discovered this entrance the first week of the summer .
though kevin had shown missy the secret staircase to the attic , it was missy who had found a strange key in the attic .
that key had opened the playrooms hidden trap door down to the caves .
the cave tunnels ran like a maze under the lodge and the lake and the high hill beyond .
there were two other ways out up through mount rocky , as they called that high hill , but that would mean a longer walk home .
kevin started moving forward out of the cellar and into the dank dark cave .
he felt his way with his hands on the cold stone walls .
missy held one arm out in front of herself , her fingertips brushing against kevins back , and her other hand against the stone walls .
they took baby steps and rounded the corner .
at first it was darker still .
there had been a little light seeping through the slats of the trapdoor , but now it was total and complete blackness .
they kept up the baby steps .
kevin had impressed missy the first time they came down here with how well he knew the caves .
he never seemed to get lost .
once he had been trapped down here by some awful people who were trying to keep the valuable pictograms undiscovered .
he had made his way through the tunnel maze , marking his path choices so he wouldnt keep going in circles , until finally he reached one of the mount rocky exits where missy and her friend , jessica , opened an invisible door and rescued him .
but now their first concern was avoiding the two older boys who would certainly be meaner than their brothers .
rob and dave had entered the caves in a rush to catch their younger brothers and had not seen the box of flashlights .
as soon as they had turned the first corner into the tunnels the light from above had vanished and rob had whipped out his cigarette lighter .
dave cursed when he remembered that his brother hadnt given him back his lighter when he was smoking in the car .
theyve got my lighter .
theyre probably way ahead by now , he said in a low voice .
give me your lighter .
ill lead .
dave grabbed robs hand and almost burned himself taking possession of the lighter .
he moved out in front and started the chase , stopping every little while to close the lighter to try to see another glow and to listen for voices .
they were well out of earshot when missy and kevin entered the caves , but that would change because they had taken a tunnel that led under the lake , exactly where missy and kevin needed to go .
out on the lake lonnie and ricky were having second thoughts .
they didnt care about imprisoning the little kids , but their brothers were going to beat them up bad if they figured out that they were responsible for trapping them .
maybe we should go back and move the stove , ricky said .
we can tell them that we were trapped , too , and some other lodge guests let us out .
lonnie thought about that for a while .
nah , he said , theyd figure out that was a lie , cuz how did we get out and the stove is still there ?
they paddled some more .
ricky was thinking that lonnie didnt make a lot of sense and his own idea was all right , but he didnt want to get into an argument with him .
though lonnie was small he was a mean little fighter and if ricky challenged lonnies reasoning lonnie might just tip the canoe over in anger .
the sun shone down intensely , not a cloud in the sky .
a crow cawed loudly and flew from one tree top to another before ricky ventured another solution what if we say that we found another way out and then when they make us go down to the tunnels to show it to them we just act stupid and lost and cant find it again .
yeah , but theyll want to know where it came out up here .
oh , yeah , well .
.
.
ricky thought some more .
he stopped paddling and stared at the clear blue sky then he looked across the lake at the lodge and all the little log cabins .
i know !
well say that we came up through a trap door in one of the little cabins and ran out .
they wont dare go in somebody elses place .
yeah , lonnie agreed .
well say it was the first one , the one that old mr. stark lives in .
yeah , theyll believe that .
they began to paddle again , faster , and headed toward the lodge .
kevin finally decided that it was safe to turn on the flashlight .
he got his bearings and they turned down the tunnel that ran under the lake .
one of the first times he brought missy on this tunnel he had turned out the light to show her just how black it was down here .
he knew that if the older brothers were down here they would have to have matches or a lighter to have any chance of finding their way .
they walked without talking .
every time they came to a turn or a fork kevin stopped and motioned to missy to listen .
then he turned off the flashlight and they both strained to see any glimmer of light that there might be .
they became more and more confident that the older boys had not come in this direction .
hey , rob said , were gon na get lost down here .
we didnt take any string like we used to , to find our way back .
what are you ?
a sissy ?
dave teased .
ooo , were gon na get lost .
havent you noticed the little glow in the dark reflector arrows ?
yeah , but they were all pointing the way we came from .
right , you moron , so we can find our way out .
dave laughed loudly and called rob several humiliating names .
come on , little baby , well head back .
lonnie and ricky must have taken a different tunnel .
theyre probably out and in our canoe by now .
shh , kevin said , i hear laughing .
he switched off the light and when their eyes adjusted they could see a faint shimmer .
kevin gave missy a little push and whispered , get back around the corner .
theyre coming this way .
they stumbled and felt their way around the corner then flattened themselves against the rock wall and waited .
missys heart started its hummingbird flapping again .
dave held the lighter high and illuminated the little reflectors that mr. jackson had recently posted .
no way would they get lost as long as the lighter held fluid .
with that thought he jiggled it a bit and figured it was at least half full .
he was kind of glad that he was wasting robs lighter and not his own .
if his little brother was using up his lighter he would just make him get another one , that is , steal one from his mom or dad , who both smoked .
is that you breathing so hard , moron ?
dave asked .
he looked back at rob who had stopped and had clamped his hand over his own mouth .
rob pointed with his other hand first to his ear and then down the tunnel .
dave heard it , too .
that little bit of noise must be coming from their brothers , probably they were hiding around the corner .
dave motioned to rob to stay put then he closed the lighter and waited .
missy and kevin stayed absolutely still .
missy willed herself to breathe quietly .
rob and dave were just as still in the total darkness .
no one moved .
two , three minutes passed .
turn the lighter back on , rob finally said , and lets go .
yeah , youre right .
nobodys down here , dave agreed , but he turned the lighter on and mouthed to rob theyre right there .
they noisily entered the next tunnel and pretended to head on .
missy and kevin slinked around the corner and headed away from the boys and farther down the tunnel under the lake .
when there was no more glow from the others lighter kevin switched on the flashlight .
lets hurry , he whispered .
you were right , rob said , and i think theyve got a flashlight .
where did they get that ?
lets get those little snots .
they jogged in pursuit as fast as they could without the flame blowing out .
dave kept yelling , were gon na get you !
oh , no , missy whimpered , go faster , kevin .
they were what would have been more than halfway back across the lake only underground , changing tunnels based on the color of the little arrow reflectors .
kevin knew exactly which way would lead to the end of the tunnels and the secret escape that he and missy and their friend jessica had discovered a few weeks ago .
if they could just reach the large cavern they could duck behind the drapery .
it hung over the opening completely and hid the entrance .
lettering that had been painted on the cloth announced the end of the caves .
congratulations !
that ought to stop the boys .
they would think that they had taken a different route and would keep on searching .
dave stayed in front of rob by a couple of feet , but it was hard to follow the faint glow of the flashlight ahead with the lighter in front of his eyes .
you go first , rob , he said , unwilling to give up the lighter .
rob passed him and his eyes adjusted to following the fainter glow a dozen yards ahead .
we almost got you !
he shouted and then tripped on some loose gravel and sprawled headlong on the cave floor .
dave stumbled over robs legs and fell , his right knee landing hard on his friends back .
he reached out his hands to break the fall and the lighter flew to the side and went out .
ow , get off me , rob grunted .
dave rolled to the right and searched blindly for the lighter .
help me search for the lighter .
theyre getting away .
dave stretched out on his belly and extended his arms out moving them side to side as if he were making a face down snow angel .
he inched forward and repeated the action two more times before his fingertips felt the smooth side then the hot tip of their only hope of seeing in this cool black darkness .
found it .
he got up , lit the lighter and handed it to rob , who had a smudge of blood on his chin .
you hold it , miss tripsy , and ill go in front .
they quickly resumed their pursuit .
did you hear that ?
missy whispered .
sounds like they fell down .
yeah , maybe we can get far enough ahead that they wont know which tunnel we took .
kevin kept up a steady jog , but they couldnt go too fast or they would end up like their pursuers , sprawled on the hard rock floor .
he thought about ducking into one of the little caverns and turning off their flashlight , but the idea of hiding in what would amount to a dead end closet did not seem wise .
it sounded like the guys thought they were chasing their own brothers , but if they caught missy and him instead , it still wouldnt be good .
they came to a fork in the tunnels .
the left tunnel was a maze of interconnecting routes that looped around without any other exit .
the right tunnel would take them to the cavern with the hidden way out .
kevin didnt hesitate in choosing the right tunnel .
missy stayed close on his heels and they arrived at the cavern without a sound behind them .
kevin hurried to the drapery that hung over the exit .
he held it out and missy slipped under it and reached up for a handhold .
the tunnel up and out was a couple of feet above the floor of the cavern .
the drapery that hid it didnt reach the ground .
no one would suspect that the tunnel was even there since all the other tunnels were at the same level .
if the older boys found this cavern and saw the drape with its end of the caves message it was unlikely that they would guess it concealed a get away .
kevin gave missy a boost and up she went .
she turned and reached for the flashlight and kevin easily jumped up and into the narrow passageway .
behind him the curtain fell back into place , quivering a little before settling back into its stillness .
they emerged from the tunnel into a smaller cavern that had stalactites and stalagmites .
they knew they were just below the lobby of the lodge and all they had to do was climb the ladder and pop through the trapdoor .
you have the key ?
kevin was still whispering .
missy pulled out a chain from around her neck on which hung two very distinctive keys .
she climbed the ladder first and unlocked the trapdoor .
she eased it open slowly , praying that no children were playing in this cute little area under the stairs where toys were stored .
rob and dave almost reached the fork in the tunnels when dave stopped and grabbed something off a niche in the cave wall .
hey , rob , look , i think i found a candle .
he held out a small votive candle , slighter larger than the ones his mother used to freshen the bathroom , and rob held the lighter to the wick .
great , now we dont have to waste any more lighter fluid .
dave said and rob closed the cap .
he almost stuck it back in his pocket then decided to wait until it cooled a bit first .
dave handed the candle to rob and reminded him to hold his hand in front of it so it wouldnt blow out .
dave turned to continue the hunt though there was no longer any ghost of light to follow .
they reached the fork and stared intently down each path , straining their eyes and ears .
im pretty sure theyd have to come back this way to get out .
we could just wait here , dave said .
or we could split up and you take the candle and ill use the lighter .
rob held the candle up high then down low .
i may be wrong , he said , but i think they took the right passage .
see how its scuffed up here ?
dave agreed and they followed the tunnel to the large cavern .
what the heck is this ?
rob said and he went right up close to the drapery and read the message by the flickering light .
dave cursed and blamed rob for making them go down the wrong tunnel .
theyre probably half way back by now !
he cursed again .
he wanted to throw something so he picked up a handful of loose stones and hurled them at the drapery then he plucked the candle from robs hand and led them back through the tunnels .
lonnie and ricky reached the lodges beach and dragged the canoe up next to the one they had earlier rescued .
we forgot one thing , ricky said , theyre gon na want to know how the canoe and paddles got put back .
we can shove it back out now , sink it , maybe .
um , i see your mom coming out the back door .
they ran across the beach and ducked into the woods out of her sight .
think of something else , ricky said .
okay , lonnie swatted at a mosquito , i know what we can say .
well tell them that we saw mr. jackson bringing it back .
they wont talk to him .
ricky agreed .
okay , lets go check out our room .
im glad our folks are letting us share .
my brother snores .
the boys laughed .
lets stay out here some more , lonnie said .
ricky usually let lonnie have his way so they headed deeper into the woods .
missy and kevin were in luck .
no little kids were in the playroom and they could emerge , relock the trapdoor and cover it up with a small rag rug .
missy peeked out of the playroom door and found the lobby empty , another bit of luck for them .
they dashed through the lobby and cut through the dining room .
when they reached the back porch a lady was heading out the screen door and they could see beyond her to the beach where lonnie and ricky were stepping out of the canoe .
they watched the boys glance toward the lodge then scurry off to the woods .
wow , missy said , we beat them back here .
yeah , kevin answered , which means that we cant beat the brothers back to the stone cottage to move the stove off the trap door .
i dont want to be there when they find out theyre trapped .
maybe its time to tell your dad how mean these guys are .
how mean what guys are ?
old mr. stark said .
he had come up behind them without a sound .
kevin and missy looked at each other first and when kevin shrugged his shoulders missy went ahead and told her great grandfather what the two sets of brothers had just done .
well , the old man said , scratching at his beard and chuckling , serves those boys right to be trapped down there for a while .
a little punishments not a bad thing .
i dont suppose the younger brothers would go back and move the stove .
no , hmmm , he paused , ive got an idea .
since we wouldnt want their parents to panic when they dont show up for dinner , heres what you can do .
he bent closer and explained his solution .
chapter 3 lonnie and ricky explored the trails for a long time before sitting down on some mounded earth at the indian gravesite .
i heard theyve got horses here this summer .
can you ride ?
ricky asked .
no , can you ?
no , but it cant be hard .
i wonder where the stables are .
you dummy , lonnie said , dont you remember the barn and corral over there , he pointed , on the way to the cemetery ?
oh , yeah .
lets go check it out .
he didnt like being called a dummy but he let it go .
okay , but what about rob and dave ?
and the jackson kid and the girl ?
you want to go back and let them out already ?
ricky rolled his eyes .
i thought we agreed on our story .
right .
lonnie stood up .
lets see the stables .
the mama bear and her cubs had stopped to chomp on some berries .
when the patch was thoroughly destroyed they found some soft earth and started digging for grubs .
the fur on their backs was filthy with leaves and spider webs , dirt and broken pine needles .
their claws were sharp and their digging was fast and methodical .
they sifted through the dirt straining away all but the juicy , squirming grubs , centipedes , millipedes and an occasional earthworm , tasty protein to complement their vegetarian diet .
when the digging got harder one of the cubs started to wander away and the second cub chased after him .
soon mama bear finished her last morsel and turned her attention toward her offspring .
she meandered after them , still heading in the general direction of big pine lodge , but a good ways off yet .
one cub scratched at the bottom of a large leafy oak tree before climbing straight up .
the other cub followed closely .
what a scare they gave to a bunch of birds that had been resting in the upper branches .
the flock rose as one and noisily flew off .
it was still late morning , but in the afternoon kevin would have to open the snack shack , a little hut near the beach where he sold candy and chips and got to keep the profits .
missy had her duties , too .
she took care of the stable and guided the guests on horseback rides .
she had already cleaned the stable early this morning and no one was scheduled to ride until later so the two of them still had a couple of hours of free time .
they liked mr. starks idea .
for a very old man in his eighties he was smart and fun .
the two friends headed down the path to the stables , but stopped for a minute to pet a couple of the horses in the corral .
blackie was the smallest and friendliest and always available for a nose rubbing .
keno stuck his head over the fence , too , but the other two horses stayed in the center of the corral nibbling on some grass .
missy called their names and tried to coax them over but they ignored the kids .
i feel like i sort of lied to my dad , kevin admitted .
mr. jackson had agreed to let kevin and missy take the six wheeled vehicle around the lake only after kevin had told him they were doing a favor for mr. stark .
im glad he didnt ask what the favor was .
well , i would have told him it was a surprise .
you know we better have an answer ready when we come back .
your dadll probably ask you tonight .
think , kevin said as he scratched keno behind the ears just like a dog , why would we need the six wheeler ?
missy stared at the sky for a moment and watched one fluffy cloud change shape without moving on .
i know .
well pick some wildflowers .
well get enough for a bouquet and you can tell your dad that great grandpa wants to give them to someone special .
okay , kevin said .
he gave keno one more pat and moved off toward the house and garage where he and his family lived when the lodge wasnt open .
missy followed him feeling a little bad herself for coming up with lies so easily .
the six wheeled vehicle used to be kept in the stable before mr. stark surprised missy with four horses .
now it was kept in the garage .
its army green color made it look like a small tank .
there were three wheels on both sides , a front seat wide enough for two people and two small back seats facing each other .
instead of a steering wheel there were two handlebars that had to be pulled toward the driver to work the right and left brakes independently .
speed was controlled by a gas lever in the right handlebar .
kevin threw something in the backseat and then the kids hopped in and kevin started it up .
he sat on the right side to work the handlebars and missy , on the left , leaned forward and hung on to a smaller stationary handle with her left hand and put her right hand on the bar that ran along the back of the seat .
she was ready for what she knew kevin would do first and , sure enough , as soon as he was out of the garage he did it .
by giving the vehicle a lot of gas with the right handlebar and pulling forward hard with the left handlebar the little tank spun wildly in a tight circle .
then he reversed the spin by letting up on the left handlebar and pulling the right one back .
they spun clockwise and missy would have flown out if she hadnt been holding tightly to the bars .
they both laughed hard and he did a couple more spins and a crazy eight before they headed off down the horse trail and around the west side of the lake .
the path was sometimes bumpy and missy kept a firm grasp with one hand or the other all the time .
kevin had to hold on to both handlebars , but even though , he still bobbed out of the seat once in a while .
dave and rob reached the cellar of the stone cottage and struggled to open the trapdoor .
those little jerks mustve put something heavy over this .
they both shouted swear words and warnings and threats to their brothers who they were sure were just above them .
they stopped and listened and when they couldnt detect even a chuckle from above they decided that the boys had gone .
they sat down on the cold dirt floor by the ladder and discussed all the terrible things they would do to them when they got their hands on them .
shhh .
did you hear that ?
rob said .
they listened as the motorcycle like roar of an engine got louder and louder then stopped .
they could hear footsteps on the plank floor .
sure that the people above werent their brothers they started yelling for help .
no one answered .
kevin and missy walked in to the stone cottage and stared at the stove deciding how best to do what old mr. stark had suggested .
when the boys below started yelling for help missy gasped and kevin smiled .
he thought about the time these same boys had tortured him and he was glad that they were feeling helpless .
quietly they took the rope that kevin had thrown in the backseat and tied it around the stove , then kevin looped it around the stove two more times so the stove would slide away and not tip over , just as mr. stark had instructed him .
missy followed him out the door as he unwound the rope , laying a trail from the cottage to the vehicle .
my dad taught me a whole bunch of sailors knots last winter , kevin explained as he fastened the end of the rope to the seat bar .
when were sure that weve moved the stove off the trapdoor , you pull this end .
see ?
then ill give it a lot of gas and hopefully well make it to the woods before those goons come out and see us .
missy nodded .
are we just gon na leave the rope ?
yeah .
i figure theyll be too angry to take the time to unknot it from the wood stove .
well get it later .
they climbed into the six wheeler and kevin slowly gave it some gas .
missy watched the rope tighten up and lift off the ground .
she felt the tug when it lost all of its slack and began to pull the stove .
she was distracted for a second when a flock of birds flew right over them and landed in the trees nearby .
listen , rob said , its that motor again .
theyre leaving .
they started yelling help !
again then stopped when they heard a scraping sound above .
whoever it is , theyre moving something up there , dave said .
he started pushing up on the trapdoor .
it still wouldnt budge .
get up here and help me , dave ordered .
it was tight , but rob managed to stand on the rung below dave and reach up with his hands and push .
dave had his back hunched up and he was using his shoulder for leverage , his face looking down at the top of robs head .
above them the stove was slowly moving , leaving deep scratches in the old wood floor as it circled toward the front door .
harder !
dave demanded and before the stove was completely out of the way they forced the trapdoor up and toppled the heavy wood stove .
the thud was loud enough for missy and kevin to hear outside .
dave leaped through the opening just in time to see the rope go slack and hear an engine roar off .
he bolted for the door and , for an instant before they disappeared down the trail , he saw two people in a little green tank .
rob joined him .
who was that ?
dave snorted .
remember mr. jacksons utility vehicle ?
the one he wouldnt let us ride in ?
rob nodded .
well , his son and somebody else just drove away .
i think maybe they were the ones who trapped us down there .
ricky and lonnie may still be down in the caves .
rob turned and looked back at the open trapdoor .
dave met his gaze .
you thinkin what im thinkin ?
rob shut the trapdoor and helped dave upright the stove and scoot it back over the opening .
they high fived each other and laughed hysterically .
i think he saw us , missy said .
he was probably the one you said was so mean , the one that was driving the car .
dave with dark hair .
kevin had to slow down now that they were in the woods , but he was still going faster than he had ever gone on this trail .
they bumped and knocked around on the seat , missy holding on for dear life , until kevin took a side trail out to the main road .
im not supposed to drive this on the road , kevin said , but theres never any traffic here and this is an emergency .
the smooth road was a relief and it would take them back to the house and stables much faster .
rob and dave were still laughing about pranking their brothers when they got down to the shore .
you idiot !
dave scolded rob .
you didnt beach the canoe .
its floated out somewhere .
what are you talking about ?
rob yelled back .
we beached it together and we threw the paddles right here .
somebody took it .
how long were we down there anyway ?
dave was scanning the lake and except for a fisherman in a rowboat there wasnt anyone else out beyond the swimming area across the lake .
i see both canoes over there .
what the .
.
. ?
maybe ricky and lonnie did get out first and they took the canoe back .
im gon na kill em , dave growled .
he started jogging toward the woods where the little utility vehicle had disappeared a few moments before .
wait , why are you going that way ?
its longer .
we can catch that tank , thats why .
come on .
kevin turned into the driveway and drove up to the garage .
he parked and turned the key off .
hold your ears , he warned .
they both clamped their hands over their ears and waited for the loud bang that often came after a wild ride .
the little vehicle seemed to protest harsh treatment by backfiring like a canon .
sure enough the earsplitting sound came seconds after he turned the key .
was that a gun ?
ricky looked at lonnie .
whod be shooting in the summer ?
maybe somebodys poaching out of season .
shooting a nice buck or doe , lonnie surmised .
look , theres the stable and theres four horses in the corral .
the boys started clucking and calling the animals over , but all four horses , even blackie , stayed out of reach and ignored them .
lets check out the stable since nobodys around , lonnie said .
they went into the tack room and ran their hands over the smooth leather of the saddles , handled the halters and reins , and thumped the riding helmets .
lonnie picked up a riding crop .
look at this little whip , he said and started flicking ricky with it .
ricky grabbed another one and they dueled as if they were having a sword fight .
when they got bored with that they tossed the crops on the ground and explored the rest of the stable .
there were a dozen stalls but all were empty except for four , which had mounds of straw on the floor and full water buckets .
as the trail became harder and harder to run on dave and rob gave up the chase and just walked .
they hardly talked at all .
off in the distance they heard a bang and started thinking about guns and hunting and deer and pheasant .
they didnt think at all about bear hunting .
we could go for a trail ride , have lunch and then go swimming before i have to open the snack shack , kevin suggested .
who do you want to ride ?
keno or johnny ?
missy always had dibs on misty .
misty was the tallest horse , totally black except for a white mark between his eyes .
keno and johnny werent quite as big and they were brown .
keno also had several lighter spots and he was the fastest and most obedient of the four horses .
blackie , small as a pony , was usually ridden by children .
ill ride johnny .
i like how calm he is and his trot is smoother .
kevin headed to the tack room while missy grabbed a couple of lead lines and climbed over the fence .
she walked toward johnny first talking softly and soothingly , calling his name .
before she reached him she turned and headed back to the hitching post , still encouraging johnny and expecting him to follow her .
sure enough , when she got there he was right at her shoulder and she clipped the two ends of the lead line to his halter and the post .
then she used the same trick on misty .
kevin came straight out into the corral from a door in the stable with one saddle , pad and bridle .
missy grabbed the saddle pad and threw it on johnnys back then held the bridle while kevin saddled him .
he would tighten the cinch before he mounted , but if he did it now it would just be too loose .
they had found that all four of the horses had a trick of bloating their stomachs up when they were saddled so the cinch wouldnt feel so tight .
it was dangerous for the rider because the saddle could slide over and pitch the rider to the ground when they were cantering around a corner .
hey , he said , the riding crops were on the floor in there .
thats weird .
missy was ready with the bridle and kevin slipped the halter down but kept the rope around johnnys neck while missy eased the bit into johnnys mouth , then she tied the reins to the hitch and he put the halter on a peg on the wall .
they both went back in to get the other tack and the helmets .
they sat on the bench and changed from sneakers to riding boots .
lonnie and ricky had heard the kids talking in the corral and spied around the corner on them .
they whispered back and forth .
how did they get out of the caves ?
there really must be another way out after all .
i want to know how they did it .
i feel like being nice .
lonnie smirked and ricky knew that they were going to scam the younger kids somehow .
they set their sneakers where the boots had been then strapped on their helmets .
this time missy grabbed a saddle and kevin carried the bridle and pad .
two steps to the door and .
.
.
what do we have here ?
lonnie said as he and ricky blocked their way .
getting a couple of horses ready for us ?
are you signed up ?
missy asked .
she was scared , but not as much as before because this stable was her responsibility .
sure are , lonnie lied .
have you ridden before ?
lots , he lied again .
something about that one little syllable made kevin think that maybe these guys had never ridden a horse .
he decided to test it .
do you need us to guide you on the trails ?
lonnie and ricky looked at each other and ricky shrugged his shoulders .
lonnie nodded his head .
yeah , i think so .
weve never ridden here , so your expert guidance would be greatly appreciated .
he smiled as nicely as he could .
missy thought that they should be yelling at them for being so mean to them before and trapping them in the caves , but it was her job to manage the stables and help out the guests who wanted to ride .
it seemed that all four of them were going to pretend that the trapping incident never happened .
come on , kevin said as he pushed passed them .
missy followed next and the two bullies trailed after .
they stood off to the side while misty was saddled , then kevin returned for more tack while missy got blackie and keno .
ten minutes later all four horses were ready and kevin handed out helmets .
he cinched up blackie and asked , okay , whos first ?
im not riding no pony , lonnie said .
ricky stepped forward , i dont mind , he said .
i hear ponies are fast .
hes not a pony , missy said .
hes just small .
she looked straight at lonnie and added , like some people .
ricky easily mounted and missy adjusted his stirrups for him before handing him the reins .
lonnie felt a bit angry by the girls remark and pointed at the tallest horse and said , ill ride him .
missy and kevin exchanged a look .
are you sure youve ridden before ?
kevin asked .
that horse , misty , can be hard to handle if you dont know what youre doing .
i know what im doing , lonnie huffed .
he walked up to the horses left side , put his foot in the stirrup and reached up for the saddle horn .
he pulled himself up hard and fell flat on his butt as his weight made the saddle slide around the horses belly .
if you knew what you were doing , youd know to tighten the cinch first , kevin said .
he burst out laughing and so did missy .
even ricky had to laugh .
stupid horse , was all that lonnie said .
he got up and walked over to johnny .
he figured out how to tighten the cinch then pulled on the saddle first to see if it would hold his weight .
he mounted the horse then realized hed have to ask one of them to untie the reins .
gim me the reins , he ordered .
missy handed them up and asked him if he wanted the stirrups adjusted .
theyre fine , he said , lets go .
the stirrups on johnnys saddle would have been fine for kevin but lonnie was three years older and six inches taller .
kevin and missy shared a secret smile as they fixed mistys saddle , opened the gate and then mounted their horses .
missy went through the opening first followed by lonnie on johnny .
blackie automatically started following since he was used to being on a lead line behind either misty or johnny .
kevin was last .
he had wanted to ride johnny , but keno was obedient and fast .
he could leave those two bullies in the dust any time he wanted .
missy led them down the trail she and kevin had taken earlier in the vehicle intending to split off onto the wider open path that missed the cottage and circled around mount rocky .
it wasnt actually a mountain just a really big hill that happened to hide the most clever entrance to the caves .
missys great grandfather and her father had worked on a project to make it invisible and it had remained so for thirty years until missy had discovered the key to opening it .
she would never ever take these older boys up that particular path even if the horses could manage to duck under all the overhangs and make the tight twisted turns .
she looked back over her shoulder and smiled to herself when she saw how tightly the fifteen year olds were clasping the saddle horns .
hey , loosen up on the reins .
youre riding western not english .
lonnie just gave her an ill do what i want look , but ricky tried to make an adjustment .
blackie stumbled over a root and pitched ricky forward onto his neck .
ricky let out a yell but succeeded in regaining his seat .
from behind him kevin chuckled .
lonnie and missy looked back in time to see the surprised look on rickys face .
that sounded just like my brother , rob said when they heard a yell coming from the direction they were headed .
he started to speed up , but dave pulled him back .
check out these trees .
easy climbing .
if its our brothers we can scare the crap out of them .
if its some other people , well stay hidden .
rob agreed and they climbed trees across from each other and perched themselves above the trail .
misty , missys horse , gave a little nicker and snort as they rounded a bend in the trail .
he had done that a couple of times before this summer and it always warned missy of hikers on the trail .
her first thought was of the older boys they had freed from the caves .
it would make sense that they would follow them back on this trail .
she was mad at herself for not thinking of that sooner and her head was racing with ideas of what to do next .
there was no room to turn the horses around right here .
she could just stop and wait , but theyd still be stuck with nowhere to go .
her only option was to start to trot .
the boys would have to jump into the woods to avoid being run over .
when the riders reached the open path then they could canter and put more distance between them .
okay , were gon na trot now , she hollered back over her shoulder .
she clucked at misty and squeezed her knees .
trot !
she ordered .
he obeyed her immediately .
johnny and blackie followed at a trot , bobbing their untrained riders up and down .
keno waited for kevins command then trotted smoothly behind blackie .
dave and rob heard the girls commands and thought that they would just stay hidden .
they had no idea how many people were heading their way or who they were for sure until they heard daves brother complaining to slow down , that this was killing his butt .
the first horse passed beneath them snorting and tossing his head .
then came their brothers .
dave and rob let out warrior like hollers and swung down from the branches .
johnny whinnied and sidestepped , scraping lonnies leg against a tree trunk .
kevin halted keno as soon as he saw the two goons drop from the branches .
he could see missy having a hard time reining in misty who probably wanted to gallop away .
surprised to see us ?
dave shouted .
that was just enough to send johnny over the edge .
he pushed into mistys left flank and tried to pass .
the bigger horse stopped paying attention to his rider and ran up the tight path until it opened into the wider trail .
johnny stayed on his tail with lonnie gripping the saddle horn and the horses mane .
little blackie was just as spooked and he chased after the others with ricky clinging like a monkey .
that was hilarious !
dave laughed .
he looked back at kevin .
what about you jackson ?
is that nag too old to run or what ?
rob started after the others , just a little worried about what could happen to his brother and how much trouble hed be in if his parents found out .
dave , however , was feeling a lot less sympathetic .
come here , jackson .
get off that horse .
kevin was glad he was on the obedient gelding and instead of being intimidated by the seventeen year old , he crouched down and gave keno a definite command .
the rumble of horses hooves was only audible to the sharpest of ears in the forest .
the young bear cubs couldnt have been less interested .
it was all fun and food for them .
their mother was pushing them onward now .
something else was in the air .
some scent that alerted her taste buds and persuaded her to pick up the speed .
they were still headed southwest .
missy let misty have her head .
she knew that the frightened animal would calm down after a little run .
after the wide path there would be an open area then it was back to tight trails and her horse would have to slow down by then .
she could hear the boys shrieking behind her and wondered how long before she heard a thud and one or both of them would be on the ground .
at least they were riding the slowest horses they wouldnt be hard to catch later .
lonnies stirrups were too short and hed lost hold of one of the reins .
he was shouting for help , but that stupid girl was just galloping her horse farther away .
he couldnt even think about looking behind to see where the others were .
ricky was starting to like blackies canter .
he had stopped bellowing for help when the trot had smoothed into a canter .
at first clods of dirt were flying in his face from the horse ahead , but in this wider area blackie had moved over and now he could see where they were headed .
he didnt hear the jackson kid behind him , though , and he briefly wondered if his brother and dave were torturing him .
keno bolted up the trail and kevin hollered at the older boys to look out .
they jumped off the trail just in time .
kevin and keno zigzagged until they rounded the last bend and opened up speed on the wide straightaway .
the others were out of sight .
kevin urged keno into a full gallop and then slowed to a regular canter when he caught a glimpse of blackies rump .
by the time kevin joined the group everyone was back to a trot and they continued at that speed until missy was satisfied that her horse was over its fright .
when she finally stopped they were at the bottom of mount rocky .
missy couldnt help but scold the bullies , your brothers are jerks !
we could have broken our necks !
they could have been trampled !
dont they have any brains ?
lonnie and ricky silently agreed but they werent about to join her in her contempt .
but kevin was .
yeah .
what morons .
they should be banned from the lodge .
and so should you , he thought .
lonnie wanted to find out about how the kids got out of the cave .
now that dave and rob were out , too , maybe they had learned the secret for themselves .
there was no way the older guys would ever let them in on it so their only hope was to coax the information out of kevin and the girl .
he swallowed his pride and said , hey , we never found out your name .
im lonnie and this is ricky .
missy didnt smile .
im missy stark .
my great grandfather owns big pine lodge .
her horse started to pull the reins as he stretched his neck down , trying to reach some light green foliage that must have looked tasty to him .
missy pulled his head up and straightened around in the saddle .
lets finish your ride .
she signaled for a walk and led the group on .
wait , lonnie said , trailing behind her .
tell us how you got out of the caves .
we know theres another way out , isnt there ?
our brothers must have found it .
we let them out !
kevin hollered from the end of the line .
he patted kenos neck and felt the heat radiating off the animals hide .
but how did you guys get out ?
ricky piped up .
if its a secret , you can trust us .
wed never tell our brothers .
yeah , right , missy thought .
instead of giving a false answer she just didnt say anything .
come on , lonnie begged .
were , uh , were sorry we trapped you down there .
it was just a joke .
we were gon na let you out in five minutes .
i swear .
missy continued to ignore him and kevin stayed silent , too .
chapter 4 dave and rob were sweaty and hungry when they finally reached the lodge .
there were sandwiches set out in the dining hall and they helped themselves .
they sat down at a small table next to their moms who were halfway through their lunches .
where have you two been ?
daves mom asked .
around , dave answered .
his mother didnt press for a better answer and took another bite .
robs mother brushed her bleached blonde hair out of her eyes and patted her mouth with her napkin .
i dont want any trouble this year , she warned .
theyve got horses here this summer and i want you and ricky to keep away from the stables .
rob glanced at dave and raised an eyebrow .
rickys already riding , ma .
what !
she started to rise from her chair then sat back down .
oh , just wait till your father gets back from golfing .
then daves mother looked at dave .
i suppose your brother is riding , too ?
yup , dave said , last we saw of them they were galloping through the woods .
we tried to stop them , but they wouldnt listen to us .
the two mothers looked at each other then one of them said , oh , well , boys will be boys .
they both laughed , finished their food , picked up their beach bags and headed out .
daves mother turned back a second and handed dave two room keys .
here , she said , we unpacked your suitcases .
your room is 212 and the other key you can give to your brother .
he and ricky are in 214 .
rob yelled after his mother for his key and she told them that the second keys were on the dressers in both rooms .
two more people came in to the dining room after the women left so the boys kept their voices low as they planned out a little surprise for lonnie and ricky .
daves mom never should have trusted him with lonnies key .
lonnie and ricky were starting to get sore bottoms .
every time missy trotted her horse their horses followed suit and they bumped up and down without control .
ricky glanced back at kevin once and saw that he seemed to being sitting the trot like a cowboy .
he couldnt figure out how to do it .
they circled around half of mount rocky before reaching a two lane road .
missy stopped her horse and held up her hand .
we can go back to the stable now or cross over onto state land and ride in there for another half hour .
the trails are wider and smoother and theres a nice meadow we can canter through .
lonnie looked back at ricky who gave his head a little shake .
he was aching and hungry .
another time , lonnie said .
we have to get back for lunch .
whatever , missy said .
she looked up and down the road .
there were rarely any cars that went by here .
she led them in a circle , but as she looped by kevin she motioned with her head for him to cut in behind her .
as they backtracked on the trail now kevin and missy were together with the bullies behind them .
payback time , she whispered to kevin .
she gently urged misty into his slowest canter and kevin did the same with keno .
the two horses kept pace and the kids sat on their saddles as comfortably as if they were on the merry go round .
johnny and blackie , however , kept up by trotting as fast as they could .
they wouldnt change their gait into a canter unless instructed to do so by their riders .
lonnie and ricky had no idea how to make the horses change gaits .
it was all they could do to hang on and bounce up and down painfully .
at last they reached the area where dave and rob had attacked them and the trail narrowed .
missy slowed to a trot and finally a walk .
the last stretch was long enough for the horses to all cool down .
she had already decided that she was going to make these jerks rub down their horses themselves , a job that she always did .
her great grandfather wouldnt object , she was sure .
dave and robs room was actually connected to 214 by two interior doors that could be locked from one side only .
apparently their mothers had left the doors open when they unpacked everything .
they checked out their room , nothing fancy , two twin beds and a bathroom , then looked at the other room .
it was exactly the same .
on their way out of the dining room they had each sneakily made off with a handful of little ketchup packets .
now the plan they had hatched seemed kind of lame .
they were going to put ketchup in all of their brothers underwear or in the pockets of their jeans .
think of something else , dave said .
this is stupid .
he tossed his handful of ketchup into the wastebasket .
squeeze out all their toothpaste ?
lame .
t.p .
their room ?
dumb .
you think of something .
dave walked over to the window and looked down at the beach .
i know .
sand .
just a little sand in their sheets .
theyll be itching all night .
he went into the bathroom and took the two plastic wrapped drinking cups that were provided and tossed one to rob .
a cupful ought to do it .
missy rode into the corral and dismounted .
she quickly tied misty to the hitching post and hurried over to the gate in order to close it as soon as the last horse and rider were in .
kevin had tied up keno and was already unsaddling him , but johnny and blackie had headed straight for the water trough and lonnie and ricky had no control .
get me off this nag , lonnie muttered .
he tossed the reins over the horses head and into the water .
he started to swing his left leg over the horses rump and accidentally kicked ricky in the knee .
hey !
watch it !
ricky scolded , then he laughed as lonnie tumbled to the trampled earth , his weak knees giving way as soon as his feet hit the ground .
ricky was afraid the same thing would happen to him so he was extra careful as he dismounted .
he didnt let go of the saddle until he was certain his legs would hold him .
missy and kevin had already put their saddles away and were coming back out just in time to see lonnie get up and brush himself off , all the time cussing out the poor horse .
okay , thats enough water .
bring them over here , missy commanded .
you have to unsaddle them and then rub them down .
fat chance , girlie .
i dont think so .
lonnie huffed and spit on the ground .
he walked as steadily as he could to the gate and let himself out .
come on ricky .
lets go eat .
ricky stumbled after him and was just nice enough to latch the gate behind himself .
missy and kevin watched the two boys walk bow legged off toward the lodge .
impulsively missy called after them , too bad !
we would have told you about the other cave entrance !
the boys kept walking .
the lodge had two cooks who prepared all the meals for the guests in the lodge .
today they had baked several fruit pies and had set them all on the kitchen windowsills to cool .
the delicious aroma wafted out toward the beach where several adults commented on the smell , the ladies all delighting in the luxury of a week off from cooking and cleaning .
the same appetizing scent reached the sharper nostrils of three bears still wandering in the forest .
dave and rob pulled back the bedspread and top sheet of each twin bed then spread the sand on the lower half of the bottom sheet .
they remade the beds with more care than they had ever done their own in the past then high fived each other .
they slipped back into their own room and locked the adjoining door from their side .
they hoped that their brothers wouldnt think to bolt their side so they could sneak back in whenever they wanted .
they changed into their bathing suits and grabbed a couple of bath towels .
okay , dave announced as he ran his fingers through his hair , time to check out the beach and the available female flesh .
rob grabbed his key off the dresser and stuck it in a little zippered pocket on his suit .
ready , he said .
lonnie and ricky stopped near the kitchen windows and gaped at the pies .
i hope those are for lunch , lonnie said .
probably not , ricky said .
oh , i dont know about that , lonnie said as he glanced around to see if anyone was watching .
he took two steps toward the window when he heard the porch door creak open and saw his brother and rob step out .
he cursed and said , yeah , i guess well have to wait for dinner .
come on .
dont let them see us .
they back tracked around the side and circled the lodge .
they entered through the front door and cut through the lobby to the dining room .
luckily there were a few sandwiches left .
they didnt even sit down to devour them they stood at the window and watched their brothers try to flirt with a couple of high school girls .
when they finished their food they searched out their mothers to get their room key .
they werent very happy to find out that theyd have to ask dave for their key .
it took missy and kevin a half an hour to get all four horses rubbed down .
missy was glad for kevins help since she usually had to do it all by herself .
she didnt mind the work , but today she was starving for lunch and wanted a little time to take a dip in the lake before she had to take a couple of lodge guests out on the trails this afternoon .
kevin wasnt opening the snack shack until 3 oclock so hed have plenty of time to swim , too .
when they finally made it back to the lodge all of the lunch items were cleared away .
kevin coaxed one of the cooks into making them grilled cheese sandwiches and they ate them in the kitchen , sitting on a couple of stools at one of the prep stations .
missy kept eying the pies on the windowsills while kevin talked to the cook about her son who kevin knew from school .
ill be right back , missy said , getting off the stool and heading toward the lobby .
she munched the last of her sandwich and wiped her hands on her jeans .
there was a small office in the lobby where kevins mom , mrs. jackson , could often be found .
missy wanted to check the sign up sheet for horse back riding that was kept on the counter there .
hi , missy , mrs. jackson greeted her .
she was always so friendly and happy .
everyone liked mrs. jackson .
missy loved the story about how mr. and mrs. jackson had met at the lodge when they both worked here when they were off from college in the summers .
that was like forever ago , when the lodge had another wing before it burned and also when they had lots of horses .
mr. jackson had been a stable boy and mrs. jackson had been a maid .
now they managed the place and were in the process of buying it from missys great grandfather .
they would get all the property , too , except for the little stone cottage across the lake , which mr. stark had said that missy would inherit .
hi , mrs. jackson .
are there any more people signed up to ride ?
she asked .
no , honey , youve just got the one couple .
nobody tomorrow , of course , since its sunday , but monday and tuesday are full .
looks like youll be riding all day long .
i dont mind .
i love it .
missy looked at the list and was happy to see that the bullies names werent under monday or tuesday .
hey , she said when she noticed that their names also werent written down for today .
whats the matter , dear ?
oh , nothing , well , yeah .
these boys said they were signed up and we took them out riding , but , she paused and turned the sheet toward mrs. jackson , they werent signed up .
let me guess , dave and rob ?
mrs. jackson scowled , raising one eyebrow for a question mark .
no , their brothers , lonnie and ricky .
mrs. jackson shook her head and thought for a moment .
tell you what .
if they try that stunt again , ask them for a riding coupon .
i was already thinking of typing up a form people would have to sign releasing us from liability .
liability ?
that means so they cant sue us if they fall off and get hurt .
they ride at their own risk .
ill have a tear off portion at the bottom where ill write in their names and the time of their ride .
they can hand that to you .
that will be the riding coupon .
okay ?
okay .
give us our keys .
lonnie and ricky came up behind their brothers just as the pretty girls they were talking to started to laugh .
the girls were more likely in the same grade as the younger boys , but dave and rob got there first .
they both stood up blocking the boys from getting a closer look at the bikini clad blondes .
here , dave shoved a key at lonnie , get lost .
wheres mine ?
ricky asked his brother .
on the dresser in your room .
adis , hermano .
because he knew it would bug his brother , lonnie peaked around him and smiled at the girls .
hi , im lonnie , he said , and this is ricky .
see you at the campfire .
they quickly made their exit , jogging up the beach , across the grass and into the lodge , anxious to find their rooms and get changed into swimsuits .
the rest of the afternoon was fun for everyone .
lonnie and ricky dove into the water , swam past the dock and continued on across the lake .
they were hoping to better their time of thirty minutes , a goal they had set for themselves last summer and only achieved once .
missy and kevin swam out to the dock and played underwater tag with three kids , one of whom kevin knew from previous summers .
dave and rob never got into the water .
they succeeded in talking the two girls into walking around to the front of the lodge and sitting on the front porch with them , out of sight and earshot of all of the adults .
later , kevin opened the snack shack and sold a dozen sodas , four bags of potato chips and six candy bars for a profit of 8.80 , his slowest day so far this summer .
missy guided a newly married couple on the trails and into the state forest and back .
they saw a doe and her two spotted fawns and this prompted the couple to ask questions about the wildlife .
the wife had heard a rumor that there were mountain lions around .
missy assured them that the rumor was false .
she did tell them , however , that they had recently trapped and relocated a couple of harmless bobcats .
the rumor probably started because of that .
missy guaranteed them that there were no dangerous animals at big pine lodge , no mountain lions , bobcats or bears .
the wife seemed relieved .
when they got back to the stables the husband gave missy a five dollar tip .
chapter 5 it was a perfect july evening , warm , not too humid and with very few mosquitoes .
the sun was due to set in half an hour and kevin and mr. jackson were getting the wood ready for the bon fire that was a lodge tradition .
it was always exciting on saturday nights because most of the guests stayed for just one week and this would be their first bon fire .
everyone would gather at dusk and anyone who hadnt already met that afternoon would get acquainted at the fire .
the kids would roast marshmallows , someone would sing a song or two , mrs. jackson would bring out popcorn , and after it got really dark , there were always scary stories told .
missy had showered before dinner and then spent a few minutes on the phone to her mother who had to work in the city and only came up to the lodge a few times during the summer .
missy ate dinner with her great grandfather and a family from georgia who had been coming up to the lodge for over twenty years .
the conversation was sometimes boring and sometimes interesting .
the two daughters were in high school , at least four years older than missy and not likely to be friendly with her because of the age difference .
they were very pretty blonde girls who talked with an accent that reminded missy of the characters in an old movie about the civil war , one that she had watched with her mom last winter .
the girls , melanie and tara , kept smiling over at dave and rob throughout dinner .
as soon as she finished her dessert missy headed back to her room .
she shared one of the first floor lodge rooms with angela , a college girl who worked here summers as a maid .
angela had skipped dinner to go out with the other maids to a pizza place twenty miles away .
missy flopped on the bed and let out a big sigh .
she wanted to be pretty like the georgia girls and have boys flirt with her .
whats the matter ?
angela surprised her , popping out of the bathroom , a hairbrush in one hand .
oh , i thought you were gone already , missy sat up .
not for another ten minutes , courtneys the slowest person to get ready .
angela pointed the brush at missy , so , tell me , what are you sighing about ?
kevin ?
no , missy answered quickly , its just , well , i wish i could wear make up like you .
angela started to laugh .
wait a sec , she turned and went back into the bathroom .
a moment later she came out with a pink bag with a bow on the side .
your mother gave me this to give to you if you ever got sick or sad .
she handed it over .
what is it ?
missy was suddenly very excited .
it wasnt even her birthday .
it was so unexpected to get a gift .
she had the best mother ever .
open it and see .
she wasted no time and poured out the contents onto the bedspread .
it looked like her mother had bought something from every shelf in the cosmetics aisle .
now dont go overboard , angela warned , less is more , as they say .
try one thing , like the mascara , and save the rest .
work into growing up gradually .
trust me , youll be old before you know it .
mr. jackson usually let kevin light the fire and tonight was no different .
kevin was fascinated by fire and mr. stark used to call him sparky when he was smaller .
the pet name stuck for a few years , but now mr. stark just called him kevin , not wanting to take a chance of embarrassing him with the nickname .
kevin had used small sticks , dead leaves and some birch bark as his base , then placed larger dry branches in a teepee formation around the tinder .
it took only one match to get the flames going .
he steadily added more wood from the pile they had nearby .
his dad set up lawn chairs in a circle around the fire .
one by one families came out and settled around the blaze .
kevin took two water buckets to the lake and filled them up .
they liked to have them close by for drenching the coals later .
the sun set and the cloudless night sky was a wonder of constellations .
without the competing lights from big cities the stars were bolder in their sparkling glory and the adults commented over and over about how bright the stars were in the country .
one dad was pointing out orions belt and the big dipper .
a three year old started singing twinkle twinkle little star and everyone clapped when she finished .
everyone except lonnie and ricky , who were standing at the dark edge of the circle whispering to one another .
kevin looked around for missy who hadnt shown up yet .
it wasnt like her to miss a bonfire .
he also didnt see the older brothers .
what could they be up to ?
maybe they were bothering missy .
he glanced at mr. stark and then decided to check on things himself .
he threw one more branch in the fire and walked into the woods as if he were gathering more wood .
he skirted around behind lonnie and ricky and saw one of them pushing something under a ladys chair with his foot .
a rock , maybe .
he couldnt tell , but they were chuckling about it and moving sideways , away from her .
last year they had set off a bunch of firecrackers at the bonfire and there had almost been a fight between some of the dads and the boys parents .
it would be incredibly stupid of them to repeat that , especially at the first campfire .
theyd be asked to leave for sure .
kevin looked toward the lodge and picked his way along the path .
his night vision was pretty good and he didnt have any trouble going along .
the sounds of the group around the fire faded and he could pick up some new sounds laughter , giggling and whispering .
he swung his head in the direction of the voices and saw four silhouettes down at the shore .
it looked like there were two people sitting in one beached canoe and another couple on the sand .
he stopped and stared until he was sure it was dave , rob and the two pretty sisters he had waited on in the snack shack .
spying ?
missy startled him .
hey , where have you been ?
kevin answered .
just doing stuff in my room .
missy batted her eyelashes , but it was too dark for kevin to notice anything different about her .
well , come on .
i already started the fire .
looks like those two jerks arent going to be joining us , but their brothers are there and theyre acting pretty suspicious .
last year they let off some firecrackers .
i kind of hope they do that again so my folks and your great grandpa will kick them all out .
kevin turned and led the way back .
dave and rob were trying their best to win points with melanie and tara .
though all four of them had been coming to big pine lodge for many years they didnt remember being there on the same week , though melanie admitted to seeing the boys leaving last year on the same day they were arriving .
secretly , dave was relieved that they didnt remember four summers ago when he and rob had chased several girls off the swimming dock .
he was pretty sure that melanie and tara were among the ones they had splashed and teased and called names .
they hadnt been interested in girls back then especially not skinny little giggling girls who screamed at spiders , snakes and toads .
i can see the bonfire , melanie stated , but she made no move to get up .
yup , same old bonfire , dave answered .
we should have our own .
what ?
here on the beach ?
tara looked around .
rob shook his head .
nah , theyd make us put it out .
lets go through the woods over to the old settlers ruins .
theres an old fireplace in the cabin ruins .
melanie and tara looked at each other and seemed to come to the same conclusion .
sure , why not ?
they said together .
missy and kevin skirted around behind lonnie and ricky and stood just outside the circle of golden light thrown off by the roaring blaze .
someone else had been adding logs to the fire and it was as high as a man .
parents were keeping their smaller children back and , in fact , were scooting their own chairs away from the heat .
missy glanced over at lonnie and ricky and saw that one was nudging the other .
suddenly there was an embarrassing farting noise from one of the ladies .
the little kids laughed out loud while the grownups tried to act like nothing happened .
lonnie and ricky bent over double , laughing their heads off .
as soon as they straightened up the loud farts began again .
the lady stood up .
its not me !
she said and picked up her chair to move away .
ricky moved into the spot she had left and motioned for lonnie to join him .
they stood there with their hands in their pockets trying not to laugh anymore .
as soon as everyones attention turned to a father who was grabbing a burning marshmallow stick from his son , lonnie bent down and picked up a dark object .
he stuffed it under his armpit and folded his arms .
whats he doing ?
missy whispered to kevin .
they had looped around to the beach side of the fire and had a good view of the boys .
i think i know , kevin said as he put two boards across the water buckets , cleverly making two seats for them .
they sat down carefully and kevin put his hand in front of his mouth , leaned toward missy and whispered .
watch what lonnie does with that thing under his arm .
just then mrs. jackson appeared with two huge bags of popcorn and last sundays newspaper .
help me , kevin .
please .
she set one bag down next to mr. stark , a safe place , she assumed , and handed the papers to kevin .
he gave half to mr. stark and the two of them began to fold pages of newspaper into cones .
missy jumped up to help and as mrs. jackson poured popcorn into the cones missy took them and handed them out to everyone around the fire .
she started at her left and went clockwise around , but when she got to lonnie and rickys spot they had moved over to mr. stark .
that was strange , she thought , because now theyd be last to get any .
she watched to see if they were just helping themselves to the second bag , but no , mrs. jackson was pouring from that one now .
when she finally handed them their popcorn they took them without a word and walked back to where they had been .
missy and kevin got theirs last and sat down on their makeshift seats to eat .
the campfire was burning down some now since no one wanted to feed the fire .
people were throwing their unpopped kernels into it hoping theyd pop .
a few of them did and if they exploded and flew out of the fire everyone would laugh .
one by one each person crumbled up his or her empty newspaper cone and tossed it into the bonfire .
the flames were blue or yellow and everyone seemed mesmerized and hypnotized by the dancing curls of flame .
there were a few moments of complete silence and then it was broken .
a long disgusting eruption of farting sounds came from mr. stark .
this time no one laughed and mr. stark just reached under his chair and brought out an object about the size of a deck of cards .
okay , he said , you can all laugh .
its just a remote control farting machine .
he waved it above his head and then he pressed a button on its side several times and the same noises came forth in short little bursts .
everyone laughed as he flicked another switch off and stuck the box in his jacket pocket .
kevin leaned toward missy .
thats what i thought .
look at lonnie and ricky .
theyre sneaking away .
good .
i hope my great grandpa keeps it till their last day here .
it was kinda funny , though .
yeah , and at least it didnt hurt anybody .
that was hilarious , ricky said .
yeah , until that old fart found it .
who would have thought such an old man would have known how to turn it on and off , lonnie said .
were gon na have to steal it back now .
or , ricky thought for a second , we just torture a certain little someone into retrieving it for us .
lonnie chuckled .
yeah , i like your thinking .
they came out of the path near the back of the lodge and looked around for their brothers .
they checked inside and made a pit stop in the bathroom .
while lonnie waited for ricky he looked out from their second floor window .
if he stood to the right he could angle his view to the left and see the large bonfire .
straight ahead the moon was now reflecting off the lake which was as still as a mirror .
he moved left just as he heard ricky flush .
hey !
he hollered .
come here .
check this out .
ricky came out and crossed the room .
what ?
lonnie pointed to the right and scooted back so ricky could take his spot .
ricky put his cheek up against the screen and let his eyes adjust to the darkness .
yeah , so ?
looks like somebody has a fire over near the settlers ruins .
who do you think , dummy ?
i didnt see our brothers or those two girls from the beach at the bonfire , did you ?
ricky looked at lonnie .
quick .
lets change into all black clothing .
whats your idea ?
just spying ?
catch them at an embarrassing moment ?
ricky looked thoughtful .
he glanced around the room and his gaze settled on the extra blankets and pillows on the shelf .
turn the lights off , he ordered .
he grabbed a blanket and threw it over his shoulders while lonnie headed for the light switch .
by the time lonnie hit the switch and turned around ricky was on the floor with the blanket covering his head as well .
he let out some low growls then asked , well ?
am i a bear or what ?
lonnie flicked the switch back on and laughed , well , you probably wouldnt fool a real bear , but i think a couple of girls would fall for it .
especially with some snorts and some leaves rustling .
he pulled the second blanket off the shelf , thinking how lucky it was that both blankets were dark blue .
ricky got up , rolled his blanket up and the two of them started out the door .
well , hello , boys .
both sets of parents were just arriving .
did we miss the bonfire ?
we didnt mean to stay at that bar quite so long .
lonnies father patted them both on the shoulders .
you didnt miss anything , lonnie said .
we were just there .
same old , same old .
marshballows , popcorn , fire .
oh , lets make an appearance , dear , lonnies mother said .
she smiled and added , after a little bathroom break , that is .
the adults all nodded at each other and disappeared into their rooms without one question to the boys about why they were carrying blankets .
lonnie and ricky slipped down the staircase .
you have finished the sampling for bullies and bears .
this book is the third in the series and is available in paperback and digital format .
if youd like to find out how to purchase this or any other of debra chapotons adventure books for kids , please go to smashwords at http www.smashwords.com profile view debrachapoton or visit the website http www.bigpinelodgebooks.com please continue the sampling with the first 5 chapters of a tick in time a tick in time prologue a glimpse of the future out of nowhere two hairy arms reached around noelles waist and locked tightly pulling her backward .
she screamed for tommy to help her as she dug her heels into the rocky path and scratched at the arms squeezing her middle .
tommys face registered disbelief as he reached for noelle and struggled to free her .
he gripped her hands and pulled her toward him .
he felt encouraged as she seemed to move forward , her head dropping down , long blonde curls hiding her face , but she collapsed over on herself like a clam as her stomach was pulled back into nothingness and her feet actually lifted up and off the ground .
tommy still couldnt see anyone other than the hairy arms magically coming out of thin air .
he dug in his heels and yanked his friend with all his might .
their hands slipped apart and incredibly noelle was sucked through the air with a whoosh and disappeared .
tommy fell on his butt , mouth open in shock .
it was as if noelle had been captured through a rip in reality .
now what would he do ?
he had escaped this strange land once before , but how could he go back without noelle ?
how could he explain this ?
surely they would lock him away in a dark and scary mental institution , a loony bin , a coo coo cage , a padded room , never to return to 6th grade , never to make it to junior high .
tommy slapped his hands to the sides of his head .
he squinted his eyes tightly shut and was about to holler as loud as he could when another idea smacked him on the forehead .
of course !
he breathed aloud .
she must have been taken to the dungeon !
he pushed himself up off the rocky path and looked at the spot where noelle had disappeared .
he felt around blindly with his hands , feeling for something , anything , where she had been .
he circled around to stand behind the spot and reached up and down and patted the air .
he looked like a circus mime trying to find his way out of an invisible box , but when he pressed the air in one certain spot his finger disappeared .
oh !
he jerked back then realized how stupid he had been .
he searched the air again until he located the spot .
it took twice as long to find it again .
this time he used both hands and tried to enlarge the opening .
there was nothing he could see , he had to work by touch only and his muscles strained to gain some kind of advantage over the rip .
it wanted to close back up around his fingers , but slowly he widened it enough to poke his elbow through and get more leverage .
tommy had started at chest level , but now the hole seemed to be higher up .
with his elbow thrust through he tried to force the hole down , but although it was widening , it was also pulling him upwards .
he kicked up off the ground and plunged his head and chest through .
a stranger sight was never seen for on the doldale side hung a boys torso and legs , kicking wildly , while on the luruss side tommys hands had found a round hairy object that was letting out screams and yelps of utter fear .
it was dark , pitch black , blind , and tommy screamed , too , trying to winch his way back from where he had come .
but at that moment the other screams stopped and noelle grabbed his arms and pulled .
chapter 1 new friends tommy mcarthur and his little brother billy would usually spend a month at his grandparents place each summer .
grandma and grandpa gustafson allowed them to bring their pet dog , noodle , along .
grandma said a dachshund wasnt much trouble and that was true for noodle who hardly ever , ever barked .
billy and tommy , on the other hand , could be big trouble .
they didnt usually play together at home since they were more than four years apart , but at grandma and grandpas they didnt have anyone else to play with so they tended to do everything together .
of course that led to trouble , which led to fights , which led to yelling and , for billy , crying .
this year , though , grandpa gustafson had promised to take each boy camping alone for a week if they could promise to behave .
it was the first saturday in july when they arrived at the big old steep roofed house that grandpa gustafsons father had built sixty or seventy years ago .
maffett street was a beautiful tree lined street where most of the houses were white , two story homes with front porches and detached garages out back .
there was an alley that ran behind the houses where the garbage cans sat and you could pull your car into your garage from the back and drive right on through if you wanted to .
along side of the garage grandma had planted a patch of tomatoes and beans and cucumbers .
the earth smelled wonderful there and tommy liked to sit in one of the big white wooden chairs , there were two of them , and watch her weed the garden .
he wasnt afraid that shed ask him to help .
she had asked for his assistance when he was billys age and he had pulled up half of the vegetables instead of the weeds before grandma noticed .
she just laughed , though , and replanted them , but she never asked him to help again .
now , while their mom and dad were putting their bicycles in the garage , tommy and his brother were lugging their suitcases up the front steps and into the tiny foyer .
their rooms were straight up the stairs and tommy didnt hesitate .
he always claimed the larger room , first come first served , hed tell billy .
his room , on the right , had another door behind a drape that let you walk right into the attic .
the treasures there were fascinating , but it got so hot in that space that he had to remember to explore first thing in the morning before the sun did its work .
billy hadnt discovered the attic yet and tommy wasnt about to tip him off .
the room on the left was billys and he would complain that he always got the smaller room , but really he didnt mind .
he thought that this room was special .
the laundry chute was in his closet and he could shout down to grandma in the kitchen or grandpa way down in the basement where his workshop was .
grandmas laundry room was down there , too , as well as what the boys considered a playroom .
it was a room of extra furniture and keepsakes , books , games , and toys .
the boys settled in quickly and joined their parents and grandparents in the kitchen for a large luncheon and about an hour of conversation before their parents left .
mind your grandma and grandpa , boys , their mother said as usual , and remember not to run past the big clock in the living room .
she always said that whenever they visited as if they needed even another reminder .
tommy waved goodbye until their car was out of sight then asked for permission to walk to the drug store .
it was only three blocks away and no busy streets to cross .
he was allowed to go alone , but he usually had to drag billy along .
if he were lucky billy would already be into the toys in the basement and not want to go .
he got his wish when he went inside to get his money .
he could actually hear billy rummaging through the stuff in the playroom .
he darted up the stairs and got the first of several five dollar bills he had brought .
he planned to spend the money on candy .
grandma thought he would buy books .
even comic books , she said , were good purchases .
she encouraged him to read a lot and he did , probably more than any of his friends back home who were undoubtedly spending the summer practicing and playing soccer .
tommy loved soccer and played on a spring team and an indoor winter team , but his parents declared that summer was for reading , relaxing , and resting , the three rs , and besides he would miss too many games the month he spent at his grandparents .
oh , well , what grandma didnt know was there was a stash of comic books and old classics in the attic that had been his mothers .
he would buy candy at the drug store and get a book from the attic to read on the back porch .
this was his plan and it seemed to be the best use of his allowance , at least it seemed that way to him .
he put the bill in his pocket and pushed aside the drape that hid the attic door .
a wall of hot air greeted him as he entered .
he could hardly breathe the dry heat .
it seemed to cover him from head to toe like a suffocating wool blanket .
he rushed to the old train trunk and opened it .
he had restacked the books last summer so the ones he hadnt read would be on top .
he grabbed the top two , a book and a comic book , closed the trunk and hurried out , careful to close the door quietly .
the stairway in this old house was narrower and steeper than most and he had taught billy to slide down the treads on his rump .
tommy could do it so expertly that billy had taken to calling him waxy butt or ski rump .
tommy sat on the top step and began the bumpity ride .
he was half way down when he stopped , deciding that he had finally outgrown this little trick .
he took the last six steps two at a time and raced through the living room , slowing down a little as he passed the big old grandfather clock , then he cut through the dining room , went into the kitchen , and out the back door onto the porch .
he hid the books under the metal lounge chair in the corner of the screened in porch then burst out the screen door .
be careful crossing the street , his grandmother hollered from the garden .
he could see his grandfather tinkering with something in the garage while noodle sniffed around the corners and he waved before turning down the driveway and out to the sidewalk .
too bad there arent any kids on this block , he mused .
he noticed a for sale sign on the house across the street .
it would be nice if a boy his age moved in there by next summer .
suddenly he tripped on a couple of large stones in the middle of the sidewalk .
he looked down and saw chalk marks , the beginnings of that stupid hopscotch game that girls played .
he wasnt interested in playing with girls , though he did glance up at the house next door .
the large front porch had two bikes sitting side by side on it .
there was a small doll carriage , too .
oh , no , girls .
he vaguely remembered meeting some little girls who were visiting there years and years ago .
he looked away and concentrated on checking each and every house he passed for signs of male inhabitants .
he crossed the street and turned the corner .
he reached the corner drugstore in no time and pushed through the heavy glass door .
the candy aisle was two aisles over and he made a beeline straight for the candy bars .
this would take a bit of thought he might even spend ten or fifteen minutes contemplating just the right combination of flavors .
first he picked out a few of the large chocolate bars , then some tart candies , followed by licorice and gum .
he did the arithmetic in his head and knew he had just enough left for one more thing bribe candy .
he always kept a box of something that billy liked so he could dole out one candy at a time to get billy to do things for him , like get out of his room , like not tell on him , like do him a favor .
sometimes , though , he had to resort to threatening billy with a little pounding on the arm .
tommy suspected that fighting was going to be more common as they got older .
he had noticed how his dad and his uncles still threw a few punches at each other .
playfully , they said .
anyway , tommy would start with bribe candy for now he didnt think his grandma appreciated any roughhousing .
he paid for his purchases and left the drug store with a weighty bag of sugary delights .
he leaned against the side of the building and peered into the bag .
what to start with ?
he opened the box of sweet and tart candies and popped a purple one into his mouth .
he listened to the sounds of summer birds , traffic , a plane up above , and , somewhere , the sound of kids laughing .
probably little kids , he thought , or girls .
he headed back to his grandparents house , but stopped as he rounded the last corner and saw his little brother playing in the neighbors yard .
billy had short brown hair in a crew cut just like tommy , but not now he was wearing a curly red wig and had an apron tied around his waist .
he was leaning over a dolls baby carriage and pushing down on something .
a little girl about the same size as billy was standing on the other side of the carriage with her hands busy working on whatever was in the carriage .
they laughed again and tommy recognized it as the sound he had heard a block away .
what was his little brother doing ?
he was acting like a girl .
this had to stop and it had to stop right now .
tommy marched purposefully up to the yard and stood on the sidewalk with his hands on his hips , candy bag dangling down .
billy , he startled them , what are you doing ?
hi , tommy , look , billy lifted his hands and up jumped a large black cat from the carriage .
the little girl grabbed at it and pushed it back down .
the poor thing was wearing a baby bonnet and a diaper and was meowing frantically .
were playing house , billy announced .
this is tracy , shes nine , and her sister , noelle , is your age .
billy jerked his head toward the front porch indicating a pretty blonde girl who was sitting on the floor of the porch between the bikes .
tommy was momentarily stunned .
he wasnt shy around girls , he had lots of friends at school that were girls , but he just wasnt aware that she was sitting there watching him .
it took him a moment to change from the accusing older brother act to a friendlier greeting .
hi , tommy said .
both sisters answered at the same time .
tommy changed his tone and asked his question again as noelle came down from the porch .
whatcha doin ?
billy was quick to explain how tracy would use her cat as a real baby and once they got it calmed down they could push the stroller up and down the sidewalk .
whats with the wig ?
tommy asked .
oh !
billy tore it off his head and handed it back to tracy .
its hers .
we er i was just keeping it out of the way while she fixed the cat .
his name is boots .
hes almost bigger than noodle , but that probably wont stop noodle from chasing him , tommy said .
billy answered , he did .
noodle did chase boots .
i put him in the back porch , though , and then i helped tracy get boots out of the tree .
noelle joined them and asked tommy if he wanted to go bike riding with her .
why not ?
he thought .
ill just put this in my room , he said , indicating the bag of candy .
she nodded and tommy took off at a run for the back of the house .
grandma was still in the garden and he told her his plans then he went in through the back porch and was greeted by a very slobbery noodle and the sound of the big clock in the living room .
it was just chiming the first of the four notes it always rang on the quarter hour .
tommy was going to leave his bag under the chair with the books , but noodle would sniff it out in a microsecond .
better hide it up high in his bedroom closet .
first he fished out the gum and put two packs in his pocket .
then he headed toward the kitchen .
in his hurry he raced through the old house not bothering to slow down as he passed the large old grandfather clock .
his left foot landed hard right in front of the old timepiece and the door to the pendulum box swung out .
tommy had a sudden fear that the whole thing was going to topple over on him and he dropped the bag of candy and reached for the door to push it back closed again .
he must have slammed it too hard because the clock wobbled and rang once more , then the pendulum ticked when it should have tocked and tommy slipped through a hole in the floor and landed with a thud in the basement .
chapter 2 not the basement !
only it wasnt the basement .
tommy had fallen on his butt as soon as his feet hit the ground .
soft ground , luckily .
there was clumpy grass under him and his heels were resting on a rock .
but the rock was spongy .
that was weird .
it looked like a rock but it felt like a pillow .
maybe this was all a dream , he thought .
he pinched himself and it hurt .
he looked all around and everything was clear as day .
this definitely was not a dream .
he stood up and felt a little dizzy so he leaned over and rested his hands on his knees .
he blinked his eyes several times and just stared at the ground .
little blue ants were scurrying every which way around the soft rock .
then he realized that the clump of grass he had been sitting on was also an interesting shade of blue , like the color of noelles eyes .
then he laughed at himself for thinking such a silly thought .
he straightened up again and the dizziness was gone .
he had the strange feeling that he had been here before and he knew the way home .
it was just over that hill .
the hill that boasted two very tall blue spruce trees .
very tall .
very blue .
now that he really looked around he saw that all the trees were blue .
blue leaves on every branch .
tommy should have been scared , but this place felt comfortable .
he started up the path toward the spruce trees but stopped when he neared the top .
he could hear voices .
just to be on the safe side he decided to step off the path and hide behind the tree .
the voices sounded friendly but you never knew .
tommy peered around the blue branches and watched .
step lightly , miss gwinn , said a tall red haired man as he passed a pretty young woman .
step lightly , mr. zerd , she responded .
tommy frowned at the greetings , wondering what had happened to the traditional good morning or good afternoon .
neither of the two people headed his way .
miss gwinn went right toward a two story building while mr. zerd went left toward a pen holding several pink sheep .
at least tommy thought they were sheep , the sounds they were making sounded less like bleating and more like meowing .
this was a most interesting place , tommy thought , as he noticed two more people coming from behind the building .
he heard the same greetings but then they lowered their voices and spoke in whispers .
one of them pointed toward tommys hideout and the other two looked quickly .
then miss gwinn went inside the building , but not before telling her friends to step lightly as if that were a goodbye .
if they were aware of him maybe he should step out into the open , he thought , then decided against that .
he turned and headed back down the hill and then took the path in the opposite direction .
it wound around several blue trees and into a forest of blue .
there were several rocks littering the path , but every one that he stepped on was soft and springy .
he began bouncing his way along from rock to rock .
suddenly a voice stopped him cold .
step lightly there , young man !
the tall mr. zerd stood before him holding a pink sheep on a leash .
the marns wont take kindly to your stepping on the backs of all their young .
tommy could see the man was concerned but not quite angry with him .
the marns ?
tommy asked .
oh , youre a visitor , arent you ?
he said the word visitor with more stress on the last syllable visitor .
the marns are the soft rocks .
theyre very sensitive .
tommy looked down at the path then back at the man and the animal .
dont step on them , visitor .
always take the left fork and pay for what you eat .
mr. zerd reached down to his sheep and grabbed a handful of the pink wool .
he stretched his hand out in an offering of the pink stuff and tommy didnt know what he should do .
gingerly he reached his own hand out palm up and mr. zerd deposited the fluffy stuff in the middle .
tommy stared at it and mr. zerd could see he was confused so he put his own two hands around tommys and squeezed the pink wool into his fist .
when tommy opened his hand he was surprised to find a hard round pink coin .
mr. zerd abruptly turned and spoke over his shoulder , step lightly .
tommy said , thank you , and then more softly , step lightly , you too .
he watched the man and sheep go back up the right fork of the trail .
the sheep was meowing as it followed .
it , too , was stepping lightly around the marns .
tommy turned the coin over in his hand and held it up closer to his eyes .
there was an inscription that made no sense to him .
he could only make out the last three words land of doldale .
so , im in doldale , he thought , and i have to keep taking the left fork , stay off the marns , pay for what i eat , and eventually ill get back to grandmas , cuz here im just a visitor .
he chuckled to himself and took off down the left trail .
he walked for what seemed like hours and hours , miles and miles , without seeing another human being or animal .
his stomach started to growl and he thought of the gum in his pocket .
it might help to chew , he thought , but he would have preferred a sandwich or the dinner that he knew his grandmother was probably making right now .
he unwrapped a stick and rolled it into a ball before putting it into his mouth .
he crumpled the wrapper and tossed it away .
suddenly there was a loud roar and a huge lion like creature appeared from behind a large marn .
its head had the typical lions mane , but the body was fat and pig like with a curly short tail .
the mane was white and framed a very dark brown face while the body and tail were a gray tone .
tommy stood frozen to the spot as the beast sniffed at the gum wrapper and intermittently roared .
maybe the penalty for littering in doldale was death .
tommy finally got the feeling back in his legs and he started to run back the way he had come .
the roars of the lion behind him grew fainter and tommy dared to glance back to see that he was not being followed .
there was a group of marns ahead that looked like boulders .
he was breathing heavily and getting a stitch in his side that ached .
as he slowed his pace he headed toward the marns intending to sit down on one and rest .
it was very comfortable sitting on a large marn .
quite soft and , he noticed , there was a sweet scent wafting upwards .
if he wasnt so hungry he could imagine himself taking a nap on one of these soft creatures .
he heard a burbly sound and smelled more of the aroma .
he breathed it in deeply .
it smelled like nothing in particular but everything in general grandmas garden , moms perfume , dads cologne , apple pie , fresh cookies , flowers , the meadow , cinnamon pancakes .
it was making his stomach growl more but his eyes grew heavy .
the scent was drugging him and he put his head down on the next marn and stretched between them .
it was an odd yet comfortable bed and the second marn began to softly burble as well .
more aromas arose hot chocolate , fudge , popcorn , roses , tangerines .
tommy sank deeper into the marns and closed his eyes .
he mouth fell open and the gum slipped out .
he slept hard .
chapter 3 step lightly ! boy !
tommy awoke with a start from the hard ground .
what did you do ?
angrily a woman scolded him .
get off the marns !
theyre almost dead !
why , theyre flatter than a doldale coin .
what were you thinking ?
step lightly , now .
she was fat and sweaty , with her face all scrunched up and puckered like a prune and she was stomping the ground with a thick walking stick .
tommy rolled off the flattened marns onto his hands and knees and the coin he had in his pocket fell at his fingertips .
the old womans eyes fixed on the pink coin and her face changed into a near approximation of a smile .
a pink .
you have a pink , i see .
are you a visitor ?
she pronounced it just like zerd .
tommy got up and nodded .
are you hungry ?
ill give you a whole dinner for that pink coin .
a whole dinner and two blue coins in change .
tommy had no idea what a pink or a blue coin was worth , but he sure was hungry and dinner sounded great .
he passed over the pink coin and the old woman gave him two blue coins from her pocket .
then she cracked off the rounded top of the walking stick and bit into it as she shoved the rest of the stick in tommy face .
there you go , boy .
enjoy and step lightly , she said as she chewed noisily , crunching on another bit of the piece .
she mumbled under her breath , cant have a visitor eating the best part .
wait a minute , tommy began , but the old woman was fast .
she jumped over a marn at the side of the trail , bent down and grabbed a handful of the blue grass , then disappeared behind a humongous tree trunk .
tommy was stunned .
he had just bought a walking stick for dinner .
he looked at it .
it appeared to be a giant pretzel .
the top part where she had broken off the rounded head was flaky and warm .
he smelled the top .
hot pretzel .
he bit off a tiny portion and rolled it around on his tongue before chewing it up .
yum .
he broke off a bigger piece and stuffed it into his watering mouth .
delicious .
this wasnt a bad deal after all .
and he had two blue coins left .
perhaps zerd and the old woman were nice , generous citizens of doldale .
he looked around for a place to sit and eat .
the flattened marns were starting to puff back up he hadnt killed them after all , but maybe he shouldnt stick around here .
there was that lion to worry about up the trail and apparently the marns had parents that could crush him .
he didnt want to go back down the trail and walk hours and hours back to where zerd and gwinn were .
he stood and ate and thought .
the walking stick was changing flavors now .
the center was meaty and juicy and a bit salty .
tommy was just beginning to worry about getting thirsty when he broke off a piece and saw that the hollow center was filled with liquid .
he drank down the cool refreshing fluid in mighty gulps , following it with a satisfied belch .
the bottom of the stick was dessert , sort of like a peach cobbler with a crunchy sugary crust .
not bad .
as he ate he made a decision to follow the old woman and not stick to the trail .
though zerd had told him to always take the left fork he didnt think that was possible with the lion up the way .
maybe the old woman would help him if he gave her back the blue coins .
he stepped over the marn and followed the crushed blue grass that marked the old womans steps .
he noticed where she had pulled up a handful of blades and wondered why she had done that .
then he moved around the giant tree and stepped in front of a welcome mat .
a likeness of the old womans face was embroidered on it in the middle .
above it said lorlynn and below in fancy script was written step lightly .
there was a door on the tree with a glass window .
he put one foot on the mat and reached forward about to knock .
as he put his second foot on the mat he began to descend , his outstretched hand scraping the knuckles on the bark .
then before he could jump off there was a sudden swhoosh sound and the welcome mat elevator landed ten feet below and he fell down at the feet of the old woman .
how rude , boy !
dont you know to knock before you enter ?
terkling visitor .
she mumbled that last part under her breath , obviously cursing him .
im sorry , tommy stuttered , i just wanted to ask you for help .
he stood up and as he did the welcome mat shot upwards .
help ?
what kind of help ?
youve already done your sleeping , and on the marns , too .
and youve eaten your dinner , i see .
so what could i do for you ?
im busy , visitor , i have to make another dinner .
she turned away from him and took two steps to a large cauldron that was tipped on its side .
tommy could see it was full of blue grass and there was half a walking stick being used as a stirring spoon .
the old woman , lorlynn , grabbed the end of the stick and made two stirs in one direction and two more in the other .
the stick grew longer .
i just want to get home .
how do the other visitors , i mean visitors , get home ?
tommy slumped his shoulders and tried to look pathetic , hoping she would take pity on him .
please , miss lorlynn , please help me .
i cant show you or well both be in the dungeon .
better you ask mr. zerd .
she turned her back again and stirred some more .
mr. zerd told me to always take the left fork and pay for what i eat .
he gave me the pink coin that said doldale that i used to pay for the dinner you gave me .
but i cant take the left fork because theres a lion or some kind of beast up that way .
he paused for breath but lorlynn answered .
if youve already talked to zerd then you know all you have to know .
i dont know what a lion is , but if theres some kind of beast on the left fork path , then it was left there by another visitor and it shouldnt do you any harm .
just ignore it .
now climb up the tree there and be gone , she nodded toward a series of rungs that ended at the door with the window .
and jump over the terkling mat , dont forget .
tommy started climbing and reached the door , which automatically opened .
he leaped over the mat and looked back as the door closed .
the old womans face was in the window smiling .
how did she climb up so fast ?
tommy smiled and waved and lorlynns face disappeared .
he went around the tree and found his way back to the path .
the marns he had slept on were puffed back up to their original size , but something was different .
a tree was growing between them now .
it hadnt been there before .
curiously tommy felt the bark and ran his hand up and down the trunk .
he reached up and put all his weight on a branch .
how could such a thing happen so quickly ?
time was all screwed up here .
the leaves of this incredible new tree were as blue as every other growing thing .
but as he looked up into the branches he could see pink rectangles scattered throughout .
they looked just like sticks of gum .
tommy remembered that he had been chewing gum before he fell asleep on the marns .
could this tree have grown from the one piece he had chewed ?
he jumped up and threw his leg up over the limb , nimbly climbing the new tree .
he reached for a stick of gum and smelled it before plunging it into his mouth .
yup .
it was gum , all right , the same flavor he had been chewing .
maybe he should drop his coins , he thought , and start a bank .
he dropped to the ground and started down the left fork .
tommy had gone just about as far as he thought he had gone before and he expected to encounter the lion at any moment .
he started to tiptoe just in case the beast was sleeping and he could pass unnoticed .
then he saw it .
it was sleeping in fact it was snoring loudly , under the shade of a new blue paper tree .
all the paper looked like gum wrappers .
it almost made sense , the gum tree , now the gum wrapper tree , but what about the lion ?
what had some visitor left to create such a monster ?
a stuffed animal ?
he kept creeping on , following the path , stepping lightly around the smallest of marns , chewing his gum , thinking and wondering .
what would happen next ?
chapter 4 marn rocks crysta lins the path ended abruptly at a wall of rock .
there was no going left or right around the mammoth rock without leaving the safety of the path .
there were boulder sized marns everywhere and he didnt dare step on those .
he would have to climb up and have a look around .
this couldnt be the parent marn , tommy hoped , as he started to climb .
it was hard and scratchy , but it was odd that it would just suddenly show up blocking his path .
he found another foothold and heaved himself higher up onto a ledge .
he looked back down at the blue landscape below and thought how fuzzy the things in the distance seemed .
maybe he needed glasses he had been squinting a lot at the blackboard last year .
he climbed straight up and came to a flat top that was somewhat spongy to walk on .
he reached down and pressed his fingers into the rock .
it was as soft as the small marns he had stepped on when he first arrived in this strange land .
the rock began to vibrate and tommy lost his balance .
he tumbled forward just as the rock , or perhaps mother marn , started to roll down the path .
at first he leaped up and started walking upright just to stay on the top , but then he realized that the marn was gathering speed and was going in the direction he had just come from .
he quickly scrambled forward and down the backside .
it was as hard as going down the up escalator back at the mall .
he kicked off and landed with a thud on the path right about where he had first been blocked by the giant marn , but now the marn was behind him .
tommy hurried along , stepping lightly of course , and glancing back from time to time to be sure the angry rock wasnt rolling this way to crush him .
the two blue coins jingle jangled in his pocket and kept rhythm to his speed .
the smaller marns in his way seemed to be spaced in such a way that he had to hop and skip in patterns .
it became a game and he got better and faster , but he was not paying attention to anything around him other than the trail .
a peal of thunder clapped loudly nearby followed by three more bangs .
tommy watched for lightning , but there was not a cloud in the sky .
strangely the sky was turning from a normal blue to a sunset of greens .
there were all shades of green , but none of the usual sunset colors .
he thought again of the crashing sound of what he had assumed was thunder .
when he replayed it in his mind it reminded him of the grandfather clock he wasnt supposed to run past .
four dongs close together it must be quarter after something .
the path was sloping downwards now and the going was easier as there were fewer and fewer marns to avoid .
the green sunset spread before him like a picture and he could see the outline of a cityscape beneath the bottom shades of green .
but the path was veering to the right and would soon disappear into a forest of blue .
tommy was hesitant to enter the darkening woods , but since he had no better option he continued on .
the forest immediately enveloped him , not only with sights and sounds , but also with strange smells .
bad smells , skunky smells , burnt rubber smells , ashtray smells .
the sounds were better songbirds and owls .
the sights were strange .
each tree was twisted and grew in unexpected directions .
he sometimes had to crawl or climb over and under limbs in the way of the trail .
the skunky smell pursued him and seemed to grow stronger in his nostrils until he thought he would burst from the stink .
he breathed through his mouth and found that he could taste the stench .
chewing his gum faster didnt help .
the trail grew narrower and harder to follow because of the trees .
ahead of him he saw a flock of small birds darting from tree to tree singing madly .
an owl flew straight at him and nipped his ear .
he burst threw the tangled branches of a blue spruce and scattered the songbirds .
when he did tommy was stunned to find that the path split into two sets of forks .
there was a sign between the two right paths that said luruss , 1,388 steps .
the sign between the two left paths said doldale , 1,979 steps .
it wasnt a hard decision for tommy he chose the far left path to doldale .
only one thousand nine hundred seventy nine steps and maybe he could get out of here .
with the dark blue forest behind him and the green sunset once again in front of him he knew he had to hurry to make it before dark .
he spit out his gum and started counting his steps out loud , running a little , half jogging .
there was not a single marn to get in his way , but he kept his eyes on the path not looking up at all until something bopped him in the head .
he stopped short and was hit again from behind .
as if suspended from golden threads , there were large diamond shaped crystals floating in the air above his head and in front of him across the trail .
a small silver sign at the side of the path warned of this latest phenomenon .
beware the crysta lins .
breathe heavy or stay in doldale .
tommy pondered the message .
obviously these beautiful objects were crysta lins , but since the sign said to beware of them they might be dangerous or poisonous or something .
he felt his forehead where the first one smacked him .
he wasnt bleeding but there was a bump there and it itched .
the back of his head also sported a lump and he scratched around the spot .
they felt like giant mosquito bites .
what could the sign mean ?
breathe heavy ?
he blew at the first crysta lin and it withered before his eyes .
he heard a pathetic cry and he instantly felt sorry .
the beautiful object puddled at his feet and melted .
then two more , much larger , crysta lins blocked his way .
he pushed them aside with his hands and moved forward a few steps .
his hands began to itch dreadfully .
more crysta lins of all sizes , very beautiful and sparkly , hovered around him .
he had no choice but to breathe heavily on each one watching them drop and disintegrate sadly into the ground .
he continued on in this way until he was quite light headed from all the huffing and puffing and he feared he would pass out before he reached doldale .
he had lost track of the number of steps he had taken but surely it was over a thousand as the city seemed twice as close as before .
he was elated when abruptly there were no more crysta lins to block his way , however , a gate closed the path from further progress .
pay the toll , visitor !
screamed a childlike man from behind the gate .
pay the toll !
how much do you have ?
two blue coins , tommy obediently answered .
the man looked harmless enough .
are they doldale or luruss ?
he demanded .
tommy didnt have the slightest idea .
he emptied his pocket and held the blue coins up to the fading light .
he assumed they must be doldale coins but he could just make out the letters l , u , and r. i guess theyre luruss , he answered .
the small mans eyes gleamed , toss them over .
tommy did and the little man ate them like candy then screamed even louder , not allowed !
no luruss coins allowed here !
to the dungeon with you !
he pulled a lever by the gate before tommy had a chance to react and the ground opened up and for the second time tommy dropped down , down .
chapter 5 the dungeon the dungeon was dark , naturally , although there were fiery torches on each of the four walls that illuminated the cave like room .
tommy hit the hard ground faster than he had a chance to even scream a word of surprise .
he needed a moment to process this new experience so he sat dumbfounded for a few minutes .
he had been astonished to see the little man eat the coins .
why would he do that ?
and if luruss coins werent allowed here why had the old woman given them to him ?
he thought he knew .
he was a visitor and he could be tricked .
well , he thought , he had gotten himself out of every other predicament here he would just have to figure his way out of this problem , too .
he rose up and took the torch from the closest wall .
he held the flame close to the floor , the wall , the ceiling , then moved around and slowly examined his prison .
when he had thought he had made a complete circle he realized that there were still four torches on the walls plus the one he had in his hand .
he couldnt be sure that he had checked all the walls .
they seemed identical .
he removed another torch and stood staring at the empty wooden torch holder half expecting another torch to magically appear .
nothing happened .
with a burning torch in each hand he made the circuit again , glancing back at the empty holder from time to time to keep his perspective .
but instead of examining four walls he found that there were five walls this time and the room was much larger though there was still no door , no window , no hole , no escape .
tommy decided he had made a mistake the first time .
the dungeon couldnt have grown .
he glanced back toward the empty torch holder , but another flaming torch was burning there .
he shook his head and counted all the torches along the walls .
now there were six plus the two in his hands .
the room was larger yet , but no brighter even with the extra torches .
he wondered just how big he could make this place .
he set the two torches down in the middle of the area and ran from wall to wall collecting and pitching the flaming sticks into the center .
he counted as he circled the great room .
eight , nine , ten , eleven , twelve .
the pile in the center was beginning to grow larger than any bonfire he had seen at camp .
thirteen , fourteen , fifteen .
he was getting tired and running out of breath .
sixteen , seventeen .
so much fire now and smoke , too .
he couldnt throw the torches all the way to the middle anymore it was too far .
tommy stood at torch number eighteen and looked .
what once had been a small square room was now huge and almost round .
flames from the far opposite walls looked like matches .
tommy rested his hand on the base of the eighteenth torch , but didnt lift it up out of the holder .
i wish i hadnt done that , he mumbled aloud .
whos there ?
someone demanded .
tommy stiffened .
his eyes searched the dimness madly , but there were only flame shadows .
just me .
whos me ?
where are you ?
the voice softened .
it sounded like another boy his own age .
im tommy .
tommy mcarthur .
im in the dungeon .
oh , the dungeon .
well , why are you there ?
what did you do ?
tommy felt silly talking to thin air but he replied just the same , i tried to pay the toll at the gate with two blue coins , luruss coins , that werent allowed .
the gate keeper pulled a lever and sent me here .
oh , are you from luruss ?
no , im not from anywhere around here .
i kept taking the left fork trying to get back home somehow , but stuff keeps happening .
the left fork , you say ?
are you a visitor ?
tommy didnt want to lie though he wasnt sure telling the truth would help him .
he hesitated then decided on the truth .
yes , i am .
then i want to meet you .
come out of the dungeon at once , the young voice ordered .
but how ?
thats easy .
blow out one torch and theyll all go out .
thats silly , tommy thought , but he obeyed anyway and took a deep breath .
the eighteenth torch withered and faded as he blew , as did all the rest of the torches .
in an instant the dungeon went black .
open your eyes , visitor .
tommy did and found himself in a lavish palace chamber .
he was standing as he had been in the dungeon , only his hand now rested on a lovely glass sconce that shed a pink light about the room .
he could hardly take it in .
the furniture was plentiful and luxurious .
the floor was covered with furs and on the walls hung tapestries and great paintings .
the high ceiling was golden with beams the size of oak trees .
a voice behind him made him jerk his head around .
there !
you see .
youre out of the dungeon .
and even i cant send you back .
well , i could , but now you know how to get out so , well , uh .
.
.
the two boys stared at each other .
they were opposites .
tommy was thin .
the other boy was stocky .
tommy had short , short hair .
the other boys hair was long and curly , down to his shoulders .
for an instant tommy was confused .
the voice had sounded male , but the long curls shouted female .
he had to at least ask for a name .
hi , like i said , im tommy .
whats your name ?
i am hackley , prince of doldale .
he swept a large feathered hat off his head and bowed deeply .
tommy wanted to laugh as the princes curls dangled over his face .
the whole gesture , the look , the hat , everything reminded tommy of the three musketeers .
but tommy politely bowed , too , and said , pleased to meet you .
the prince waited expectantly then prompted , well , do you have a gift for me ?
tommy thought quickly then pulled a package of gum out of his pocket .
this is for you , prince hackley .
the prince frowned at such a small and simply wrapped gift .
then he brightened , what is it ?
is it magic ?
tommy explained about gum then added as an afterthought , it is a type of magic in that you can chew it for just about forever .
try one .
the prince gently drew out a stick and pulled the wrapper off .
he sniffed it a bit and licked one side before setting it on his tongue .
finally he started to chew .
he seemed pleased and tommy relaxed .
you can blow bubbles with it and make a loud popping sound , too .
that really annoys teachers , tommy added .
what are teachers ?
the prince asked .
teachers , you know , the grown ups who teach you stuff .
at school , tommy answered .
school ?
the prince echoed .
what is school ?
oh , man , tommy looked admiringly at the young prince , you probably dont have to go to school .
you probably have tutors to teach you stuff like history , geography , english , and math .
oh , and science .
the prince chewed slowly on the gum and eyed tommy suspiciously .
i dont know many of these words youre using .
answer my question .
what is school ?
tommy thought a moment then gave the most basic explanation he could think of , starting with the building itself , the classrooms , the kids , and each subject .
as he gave more and more details the prince sat down on a large round ottoman and gestured to tommy to sit on the fur on the floor .
prince hackley asked for more particulars and tommy felt obligated to enlighten him on the finer points of a public education , like recess , art , music , and gym .
it took quite a while and tommy hadnt even properly thanked him for releasing him from the dungeon yet .
this is fascinating , the prince proclaimed .
i shall have to ask my father to institute a school for all the people in doldale , young and old .
you might not be too popular after a while , tommy warned , only girls like school .
for a moment he was afraid that the prince was going to ask him what a girl was , but the princes strange look was not about that .
my jaws are tired , prince hackley announced .
he took the gum from his mouth and stared at the glob .
can i save it for later ?
yeah , but itll get hard .
just throw it away and get a new one .
to tommys surprise the prince threw the gum straight over his head toward a wall where it smacked onto a colorful tapestry and stuck .
tommy thought to himself that he would have to be more careful of what he said .
prince hackley , tommy began again , id really like to thank you for getting me out of that dungeon .
will you tell me how to get home ?
the prince shook his curls and got up from the ottoman .
visitors always take the left fork .
its as easy as that .
hackley looked down at tommy and asked , do you ride ?
yeah .
tommy assumed he meant bikes .
come with me .
i have a new zeebian and you can ride my old one .
tommy didnt protest and followed the prince out of the lovely room and through one hallway and down another , past several large sitting rooms and through what must have been a ballroom .
then they stepped outside into a pink and blue garden .
a winding path took them past several strange fountains that looked like prehistoric animals spitting up .
tommy kept close behind the prince while still trying to take in all of his surroundings .
the palace grounds were like none he had ever read about or imagined .
just ignore the williants , the prince said .
dont even answer their stupid questions .
tommy had no idea what he was talking about .
williants ?
questions ?
he neither heard nor saw anyone else , but he decided not to admit that to the prince .
soon they arrived at a round enclosure much like a rodeo ring .
though the dirt was like blue dust the rest of the scene seemed familiar .
a red barn , taller than most , stood at one end of the ring .
a very tall door was closed and barred .
at the other end of the ring was a gate that opened to a walled maze , only the beginning of which tommy could see .
the ring itself was enclosed with a very high fence , easily climbable by a boy such as tommy .
the prince was already three feet up and continuing .
tommy followed .
at the top both boys swung a leg over and balanced .
the prince removed his feathered hat and held it out at his side .
here , willie , take this hat and bring me two riding hats .
instantly the hat disappeared and tommy felt the rails wiggle as if someone were climbing down .
he braced himself against the jiggling and noticed a series of footprints appear and disappear in the blue dust below .
then the tall barn door opened , but only at the bottom , like a pet door .
a moment later the little door closed and tommy spotted the footprints returning .
again the rails moved and suddenly there were two strange , pointy hats in the princes hands .
he handed one to tommy and explained , queens orders .
we cant ride without these .
tommy took one and put it on .
he no longer expected to be riding bikes but expected maybe something in the category of horse .
okay , willie , let the zeebians out .
and with that the rails rattled again , the blue dust quaked as the tiny footprints hurried along toward the barn , then the whole tall door slowly opened and tommy had the surprise of his life .
you have finished reading the first 5 chapters of a tick in time .
this book is available in paperback and digital e book format .
if youd like to find out how to purchase this or any other of debra chapotons adventure books for kids , please go to smashwords at http www.smashwords.com profile view debrachapoton or visit the website http www.bigpinelodgebooks.com please continue the sampling with our last selection from bigfoot day , ninja night .
bigfoot day , ninja night chapter 1 pooped out yeah , im one of the cool kids .
but i dont think im cool .
really .
its just that all the other kids at jayno adams elementary school think so .
i guess its cause im tall .
kids call me morning as a nickname cause my initials are a.m. thats cool .
anyway , i hang with the cool kids .
like austin michaels , hes my best friend .
i tell people hes like a brother to me .
they always laugh .
and we play , i mean hang , with mostly cool girls like sydney lock .
and callie stone .
they are way cool .
but cool wont help you against bigfoot .
okay , i know you dont believe we saw bigfoot .
but we did .
this is what happened it was saturday and we were having our annual school fair .
you know , bouncy house , face painting and the other usual stuff .
our school backs up to a humongous woods and that woods borders a marshland and another state forest .
so its like really wild and we used to climb over the fence at recess and dare each other to play hide and seek .
the fourth grade teacher , mrs. buckley , caught us once and we missed a week of recess .
anyway , its spooky in there and my grandpa told me about hobos that used to sleep there .
i didnt know what a hobo was .
it was some dirty , stinky homeless man who would ride the trains for free and beg for food and then steal chickens and stuff from farmers .
i told austin and sydney and callie about the hobos and then i would yell , hobo !
and everybody would run for safety .
anyway , we were at the school fair and the four of us decided it was pretty lame and we headed for the fence intending to mess around in the woods a while .
sydney was the first one over and she took off running like a horse and yelling , not it !
then she stumbled and fell smack into something that was brown and gooey and smelled really , really bad .
the thing about sydney is you never see her not smiling .
this was probably like the first time i ever saw her without a grin on her face .
eeuuy , callie said when she reached her .
austin and i just stared and covered our mouths and noses .
sydney got up and looked around for some big leaves to wipe herself off with .
the leaves she used just crumbled and she ended up smearing the brown stuff on her shirt and legs even more .
callie handed her some wet wipes she kept in her back pocket .
you could always count on callie for a tissue or a bandaid or anything .
dont just stand there , morning , sydney said to me .
move .
i didnt get why she was telling me to move until i followed her eyes down to my feet and saw that i was standing on her cell phone .
i had ignored the wobbly feel of the hard object along with the equally wobbly feel of the larger rocks i had been balancing on .
sorry .
i picked it up and handed it over .
she checked and of course it didnt work .
our parents had this rule that at least one of us had to have a cell on us when we werent home .
no problem .
usually we all had them with us .
except at school .
jayno adams new principal was mean about it .
no cells phones at school !
it was just habit that we didnt bring them to school so i , for one , didnt even think of grabbing mine to come to the fair .
syd gave me a smile and was cool about the phone .
i mean , really , why get your panties in a bunch ?
the brown stuff that was drying on her legs was more panty bunchable .
i really wanted to get my nose out of the whiff zone .
what do ya think that stuff is ?
austin was curious .
he kept staring at the enormous dung pile .
its more loose and puddly than dog doo .
there arent any cows in the woods , i dont think , so its not a cowpie .
what kind of animal leaves a turd that big and wet ?
austin was our resident expert on the types and colors of droppings .
i once saw him scrape white bird droppings off a fence post with his fingernail and sniff it .
he claimed he was making sure it wasnt bat poop .
like who cares ?
maybe its from bigfoot , callie offered .
shes probably the most timid and easily scared of the four of us .
this is where i should have made some growling , scary sound and gotten everybody freaked out and running back to the fair .
so i guess its my fault that instead of going back and having a normal day we went deeper into the woods .
its a quest !
sydney turned and started leaping over logs and ferns and leading us followers on .
lets find mr. bigfoot poopy pants .
i dont believe that girl .
most girls would have been horrified to have a soda spilled on their clothes let alone some you know what .
i couldnt imagine callie or me or austin in her place .
so , we followed her .
and let me tell you , we could have followed her blindfolded , just by smelling her .
it seemed like that stuff was getting stinkier as it dried .
i swear i could see lines of scent waving back from her like in a cartoon .
and here we go , off to find mr. bigfoot poopy pants .
brother !
if one of the not cool kids had said that , well , we would have been rolling our eyes .
but sydneys funny .
i half smiled to myself , but then i frowned as it seemed like the forest got darker around us .
we all stopped at the same instant .
we couldnt believe our eyes !
chapter 2 back tracking what in heavens name is that ?
callie exclaimed .
shes really into church stuff and heaven comes up a lot .
thats cool .
its not poop .
austin was proud of his comment .
we circled around as if we were going to join hands and do some silly folk dance .
but we were all looking down at the gigantic , enormous , super sized two toed foot print that had smashed a dozen ant hills .
for once i didnt have anything to say .
sydney crouched down and stretched her hand across the imprint .
i think each toe was as big as her hand .
is this bigfoot ?
sydney whispered .
i wondered why she wasnt trembling cause i was .
no such thing , callie was shaking her head , my mom said so .
callies mom was like one of the smartest grown ups any of us knew , smarter than our teachers , for sure .
no ants , austin stated .
i thought that was a little off the subject until he added , guess the ants havent had time to rebuild their little mounds .
guess that means mr. two toes just made this footprint like a minute ago .
so then it was like everybody did that bobble head thing with their necks as we all looked around in every direction .
something big , something not human , something with just two toes was out there in the darkening forest .
probably close by .
lets get outta here !
i said in a hoarse whisper .
i was first to move and i headed off in what i thought then was the opposite direction of mr. two toes , based on the way the toes were pointing .
my fault again .
but how was i supposed to know that this creature , this humongous sasquatch , had been walking backwards ?
chapter 3 blood okay , so we were running in a straight line , jumping over logs and stuff and brushing spider webs out of our eyes .
i managed to stay in front .
longer legs , you know .
it wasnt that i was any more scared than anyone else .
wait , you guys !
callie was calling from the back of the pack .
hey , morning , slow up .
i cant run in these sandals .
i did a quick glance back .
austin was right on my heels with sydney a few feet behind him .
callie was lagging .
sandals or not , she had better put a move on , hustle , put the pedal to the metal , get the lead out .
oh my gosh , i was starting to sound like old mrs. buckley , the fourth grade teacher .
she was a font of knowledge , a treasure trove of information , a .
.
.
oh , there i go again .
morning !
stop !
i think were going the wrong way , callie was just trying to make me stop .
well , yeah .
i glanced back again and syd and austin had already halted and were doing that swivel head thing again .
up and around , looking everywhere , eyes and heads moving in every direction at once .
so i stopped , too .
might as well .
no sense in me getting separated .
what makes you think were going in the wrong direction ?
i asked .
callie pointed up at the sky .
the sun .
now i know that callie gets good grades .
we all do .
but it just wasnt fair how she would know some stuff and could do some stuff that just didnt fit for kids our age .
like always know what time it was without a watch .
like know when the car was going north or east without looking at the compass on the dashboard .
like look at an outdoor photo in my moms family album and say what time of year it was taken because of the shadows and mom said she was right .
so when she said , the sun , i was instantly in agreement with her .
right .
okay .
which way should we go , callie ?
she spun around and pointed pretty much back the way we had just come .
but what about the monster ?
austin said .
yeah , the monster , sydney echoed .
callie simply shrugged her shoulders and reached down to tighten her left sandal .
okay !
i hollered .
i wasted absolutely no time at all in refocusing my single minded quest for the way out of these woods .
again austin was right on my tail , in front of the girls .
ill have to teach him about manners sometime , you know , ladies first and all that , but for now it was everybody for himself .
sydney waited a bit for callie and then it was the four of us pounding through the underbrush .
it still seemed to be getting darker and the trees were taller and the ferns were thicker and the spiders were bigger and now the mosquitoes were buzzing our faces .
watch out , morning !
austin warned me , but it was too late .
i had been swatting frantically and i missed seeing the fallen branch across the trail .
my long legs took the impact in the middle of my shins and i went sprawling .
i was cool , though .
i did one of those tuck rolls we learned in gym and for the first time ever i sort of popped up like it was a planned acrobatic move .
must have been some natural ability i didnt know i had .
you okay ?
sydney bent lower and inspected my legs .
callie , more wipes .
she popped out two more wet wipes and i soaked up the blood that was running down my shin and into my shoe .
i tossed the bloody wipes on the trail and callie instantly scolded me .
i wasnt thinking .
callie is like the neatest person ever .
theres no chance of getting away with littering when shes around .
i retrieved them and stuffed them into my back pocket something fun for mom to find when she does the laundry .
youre still bleeding , sydney said .
callie , band aid .
now , this is where the world gets really scary because callie checked every pocket and she didnt have even one band aid .
and then she got real pale .
its okay , i said , its not like im going to leave a trail of blood for the two toed giant bigfoot creature to follow .
its almost dried .
but callie wasnt thinking about that and she wasnt pale because she got another whiff of sydney either .
it was something else .
i cant tell which direction to go now .
i cant see the sky .
chapter 4 sounds so there we were .
lost .
deep in the dark forest .
monsters lurking .
mosquitoes buzzing .
spiders watching .
blood dripping .
dried poop stinking .
or something else .
.
.
okay , who let one ?
not me .
not me .
it wasnt me , either , and its different from this stuff thats dried on me , sydney smiled as she said this .
nothing gets to that girl .
i think shes happy to be lost .
maybe its the creature .
callie said this like she knew the creature personally and , well , its just the creature .
yeah , thats all , the creature just had a little gas , no biggy .
i wasnt falling for it .
i made a face .
i turned .
i sniffed .
i turned again , sniffed again .
i picked a direction .
there was nothing stinky to the left so that was going to be our new path .
the others followed like the little lambs they are .
hey , lets sing .
we just ignored sydney on that one .
way to not be cool .
i dont get why its so dark , callie said as she stumbled along , last in our miniature parade .
its only a little bit after one .
maybe .
i think .
yeah , austin agreed .
we just had lunch before we came .
we havent been out here that long .
he really stretched out the word that when he said it .
we havent been out here thaaaaaaaaaaaaat long .
i wouldnt be making a big deal about how he said it , but it was just that when he was stretching out the word i heard another sound .
a sound that could have been someone else trying to mimic him .
not an echo exactly .
just the aaaaaa sound , like a sheeps bleat or a bubble stuck in your throat or the witch in the wizard of oz before she says my pretty .
aaaaaaaaaa .
there it was again .
what was that ?
i asked .
i glanced back and again everyone was swinging their heads all around .
i knew that they had heard it , too .
i could imagine all their arm and leg hairs popping out straight with goose pimply fright .
our parade line was tightening up fast as austin crowded up closer to me and sydney reached for austin and callie closed in on syd .
the bigfoot , austin breathed .
mr. two toes , sydney said at the same time .
callie was a second behind , mr. poopy pants .
well , we all had to laugh at that .
callie comes out with some good ones all the time .
she just slides in a comment that may be only a few words , but she makes us all burst out laughing .
thats what we did .
we started to laugh and we couldnt seem to stop .
my sides started aching and austin was clutching his stomach .
this is what i found out later is called hysteria .
you start laughing and then you cant stop yourself and you change to crying or you start crying and the opposite happens and you start laughing .
its really weird .
we were still at the laughing stage , but i could see that there were tears in syd and callies eyes .
and sure enough , the next thing i knew they were crying like babies .
i might have been , too .
austin punched me and then he started yelling at us all to be quiet because he thought he heard something .
chapter 5 predator aaaaaaaaaaaaa .
rrrrrrrrrrrrr .
we huddled .
we cuddled .
we trembled .
the bushes were shaking and something was definitely moving closer .
we all started screaming and then the bushes started screaming , too .
and then natalie broke through some dense pine boughs , still screaming .
okay , back to the hysteria thing .
should we laugh or cry ?
what a relief it was that the noise we had heard , that aaaaaaaa , was just natalie making her usual grumbling expressions .
after youre around her for a while you start to understand her grunts and growls .
she can talk , of course , and her last book report in class was like the best one ever , but her family likes to engage in what i would call caveman language .
her dad can actually tell a joke without using any english .
so , it was natalie .
austin was the first to speak real words , natalie , awesome , we thought you couldnt make the fair or we would have waited for you .
natalie gave one of her typical half smiles , a teeny little smirk , a slight upturn of the left side of her mouth , a semi sneer .
gee , maybe i learned a lot from mrs. buckley in fourth grade after all .
natalie dropped the mini smile and said , we got back from evans thing in time .
evan is her older brother .
hes high school cool .
ive been following you guys since you got to the fence .
i saw you climb over and i was yelling , but i guess you couldnt hear me .
she gave a little hhmmff sound that we all knew meant she really believed that we hadnt heard her and werent trying to ditch her and she was cool with trying to catch up with us .
yeah , really , one little sound from her says that much .
theres a big animal monster bigfoot thing in the woods , sydney informed her , and hes got diarrhea .
she waved her fingers in front of her stained shirt and shorts .
natalies lip curled up toward her nose .
sydney tripped in it .
and ive got blood on my legs from when i tripped , i said and looked down to check if the bleeding was still stopped .
it was .
did you see the footprint ?
callie asked .
natalie just shook her head no .
two toes this big .
syd held her hand out , fingers spread wide .
natalies eyes widened .
i guess she used all her words up when she first spoke .
austin , i just noticed , was still bobbing his head all around , checking the branches above and looking around and behind us .
that got me nervous .
maybe he was still hearing things .
maybe the creature was tracking natalie .
you know , a victim alone .
one small girl .
cute .
helpless .
making little noises that would attract a predator .
predator was a spelling word we had last month .
cool that i get to use it in a sentence .
i think we should go , austin said .
natalie , do you know the way back ?
hhkkm .
i guess not .
we looked at callie .
she shrugged her shoulders .
her internal compass was still broken .
lets vote , sydney grinned .
everybody close your eyes and point in the direction you think we should go .
then well open our eyes and see which direction most of us are pointing .
okay ?
we all nodded .
close your eyes and point .
now one , two , three , open your eyes .
in the couple of seconds our eyes were closed i was sure that , even though there are four basic directions , when i opened my eyes id find out that five hands would be pointing in five different directions .
i think everybody had the same thought , but youll never guess what i saw when i opened my eyes .
you have finished the final selection preview .
want to find out what happens next in all of these stories ?
go to the authors smashwords page http www.smashwords.com profile view debrachapoton or the website http www.bigpinelodgebooks.com to read summaries , watch video trailers and find out more about how to purchase these kids adventure books .
thank you for taking the time to check out these fine books .
below is a list of all books by debra chapoton .
chapter books the secret in the hidden cave mysterys grave bullies and bears a tick in time bigfoot day , ninja night nick bazebahl and the forbidden tunnels nick bazebahl and the red tunnels nick bazebahl and the wormhole tunnels nick bazebahl and the mining tunnels nick bazebahl and the cartoon tunnels young adult edge of escape dragonfoot non fiction crossing the scriptures johnny b .
fast the super spy part 1 by tom doganoglu this novel is a work of fiction copyright 2011 tom doganoglu covert art mike motz all rights reserved .
no part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without written permission by tom doganoglu .
smashwords edition contents chapter 1 super spies chapter 2 trouble at school and work chapter 3 department x chapter 4 second chance chapter 5 responsibilities to you , the reader for sharing this world with me .
chapter 1 super spies johnny clunker was a normal and average boy .
he was about average height and average build , he had average short brown hair , and a generally nice and normal average smile .
except that he wasnt too normal or average as far as those words meant .
he went to school , tried to do his homework , and did his best to fit in socially during the day .
but at night , shy , weak , and timid johnny clunker became something else entirely .
he became a super spy .
he became johnny b .
fast .
he went on important missions to save the world , and they usually went better than the way this one was going right now .
what a mess .
the entire warehouse was surrounded by united order spies with top of the line gadgets and weapons .
it was a rundown , abandoned warehouse , probably used for some type of heavy machinery in the past .
there was a partial second floor that looked down on a massive layout of scattered crates and boxes , forming makeshift hallways and rooms .
perfect places for hiding .
nevertheless , this was going to be harder than usual .
johnny looked through his night vision goggles , trying to find all the spies patrol routes .
it was his birthday .
johnny clunker , or johnny b .
fast now that he was undercover , had just turned fifteen years old .
this was not a good thing .
johnny didnt like birthdays , they were filled with bad memories about bad things that happened to him when he was thirteen .
johnny b .
fast tried to push the thought out of his head .
he forced himself to pay attention to the sentry posts and their routes around the building .
maybe he had been wrong , this shouldnt be too hard .
but they sure had a lot of spy agents guarding the warehouse tonight .
it would probably take only one of the best spies in the world to be able to snatch the united orders super chip right out from under their noses .
it would take a super spy to get this super chip .
super was an important word in his business .
when you got as good as johnny was , they didnt just call you a spy , they called you a super spy .
and when you were after a chip as powerful as the one johnny was after tonight , it wouldnt do the chip justice to call it a regular chip .
johnny sighed he hoped he could live up to the name super .
what a mess .
the radio in his earpiece went off with a burst .
b .
fast ?
you okay ?
johnny whispered back , the microphone in his ear would pick up his words .
why wouldnt i be okay ?
he hissed , with a bit more nervousness than he wanted to admit .
you havent moved from your position in ten years .
that was agent ackers , the most sarcastic field operative anyone could ever hope to have helping them .
he was assigned to be johnnys ears , eyes , and nose when he was on missions .
and if you asked ackers , he would also add brain to that list .
agent ackers was in his early twenties , and always stayed back at base where he was safe .
he was really skinny , and constantly seemed to have a bunch of pimples sprouting up all over his face .
he was very sensitive about his skin condition , and claimed that was why he always stayed back at base .
but still , ackers was in his twenties , so at least he had somehow survived fifteen .
something johnny hoped to do tonight .
are you still there ?
ackers hissed in again .
im just checking out where all the sentries are .
thats my job its your job to get the chip .
now there should be two more guards in front of you , and three directly below them on the next level .
i would recommend being highly stealthy , or taking them all out with a loud bang , ackers advised .
those two options are completely opposite from each other !
how can you recommend two choices that are so different ?
its my job , ackers informed .
it was his job to be annoying , thought johnny .
now which one is it going to be ?
ackers continued .
i think ill choose the stealthy option , johnny said .
after all , that was the more spy like thing to do .
hey !
you there !
what are you doing ?
from out of the corner of his eye , johnny could see that he had allowed a guard to sneak up on him while he was talking with ackers .
that type of thing usually didnt happen to him .
its just great having a birthday , he thought .
the guard was wearing all black , covered from head to toe in a shadow guard uniform .
there was a circular insignia on the left side of his uniform that meant the united order , which also meant bad and evil .
the shadow guard uniform had a unique ability to bend light and make the wearer appear to be invisible , but it drained a lot of resources and was generally not used , making the shadow guards stand out more than they intended to blend in .
johnny always wanted to point out the irony of the uniform to the guards , but he didnt think now was the best time .
guarding the chip , johnny said instead , trying to answer the guards question .
johnny wasnt wearing their uniform , so his response was a little suspicious .
ive never seen you before , the guard responded , raising his gun and pointing it at johnny .
johnny slowly got to his feet .
im with the second division .
youve probably never heard of us because its our job to not only guard the chip , but also to make sure the first division , which is you guys , are doing their job properly .
we do our job best by making sure that you guys dont know were doing our job when youre doing yours .
the guard got lost in johnnys rambling .
what second division ?
ah , you see ?
johnny said triumphantly .
youve never even heard of us .
we wouldnt be very good at our job if everyone in the first division knew the second division was watching their every move .
there is no second or first division !
the guard said angrily .
johnny looked distraught .
you mean you dont even know youre in the first division ?
what division did you think you were in ?
johnny asked .
the guard wrung his hands in frustration .
there are no divisions !
he hollered back .
johnny winced at how loud the guard was being .
he was pretty sure that he could take down one guard pretty easily .
he could probably even take out two , three with the help of some of his gadgets .
okay , maybe even four or five with the help of some of his really advanced spy gadgets .
johnny had a really high opinion of himself , but he wasnt sure if he could take down every guard in the warehouse singlehandedly .
at least not today it was his birthday , after all .
there are always divisions , johnny instructed .
the guard looked confused .
for instance , johnny continued his lecture while the guard kept the gun pointed at him , right now you are on one side and i am on the other .
its a good thing you have a gun , because that at least helps johnny stopped talking .
lightning quick , he stepped in close and to the side of the gun , karate chopping a specific nerve on the guards neck .
johnny caught the gun as the guard dropped it .
to try and even the odds , johnny continued .
the guard fell to the ground , stunned , but still conscious .
see ?
without the gun you would have had almost no chance .
you talk too much , ackers chimed in through the ear piece .
i wasnt talking to you .
i cant help but hear every word you say .
its one of the hardest things about my job , and the source of my extremely large therapy bills , ackers informed him with an exaggerated sniffle .
you dont have to pay for your therapy bills , johnny said .
still have to make the time , ackers quipped back .
dont blame your skin condition johnny tried to add , but ackers beat him to it .
cant talk about that .
off the record .
how come you get to pick whats always on or off the record ?
johnny asked .
thats also my job .
right , thought johnny .
he kneeled down beside the still conscious guard .
anyway , the moral of the story is you were right the first time , there is no second division , johnny informed the guard as he knocked him unconscious .
did you knock him out with that neck nerve pinch thing ?
asked ackers .
yup , johnny lied .
one day youre going to have to show me how you do that .
nope , super spy secret , replied johnny .
im going radio silent now .
johnny ran down the stairs leading to the first floor and the area where the chip was to be exchanged .
the united order was paying a lot of money to get a computer processor chip from a group of scientists who claimed that they found a way to make cpu chips faster without burning out from the heat build up .
if the united order was able to duplicate this chip before anyone else , they would have the fastest computers on the planet .
not that they even needed to do that , it sounded like just having one of these chips would be enough to dominate the entire worlds technological resources .
there were a lot of guards on the floor , seven to be exact .
that was supposed to be a lucky number , thought johnny .
the guards patrolled the floor with a bored and sloppy demeanor , none of them were expecting anything to happen .
that would be johnnys biggest weapon , the element of surprise .
he slowly snuck around a few crates until he could get a good view of the center of the warehouse .
there were three scientists speaking to someone in the united order , not a guard , someone who actually looked important .
the man turned and johnny got a good look at his face .
he had a big scar that ran down from one side of his face to the other .
he was also very , very tall , towering over everyone near him .
the three scientists all seemed very nervous around him .
and the man , johnny decided to call him scar , loomed over everyone , intimidating them with his ugly glower .
let me see it , scar demanded .
the scientists all motioned to each other nervously .
finally , one of them , the one at the very back of the group , shook his head .
scar raised his eyebrows in warning .
we would like to see the money first , the brave scientist spoke with a scared and squeaky voice .
please , he added , taking away much of his show of strength .
of course , scar replied .
scar raised his hand , palm out , towards the brave scientist .
his colleagues around him instantly parted , leaving the brave scientist standing all by himself .
a blinding white light shot out of scars hand and completely enveloped the brave scientist .
johnny was forced to look away from the brightness , but he heard the scream that followed .
when the light finally died down , johnny looked back and saw a steaming skeleton lying on the ground where the brave scientist used to be .
johnnys mouth hung open in shock .
the rest of the scientists looked from their dead partner and slowly back to scar .
i hope , for all your sakes , that he was not the one carrying the chip , scar boomed .
no , no , i have it right here .
one of the scientists held up the super chip .
without a word , scar snatched it from his hand and examined it .
scar brought out what looked like a small , green lens .
he looked through it at the chip and was able to see the chip magnified hundreds of times .
as you can see , the scientist continued , the chip uses light as registers , being able to withstand heat and process computer instructions at speeds of up to ten times or more than the best modern computers .
with this chip you would have a huge advantage over the rest of the world .
scar checked the connections and the registers as the scientist blabbed on until he was satisfied that he was holding the right processing chip .
this is the one , he said at last , lowering the magnifying lens .
and now our payment ?
another scientist asked .
scar motioned to the seven guards around him , who instantly surrounded the scientist and brought up their guns .
butwe brought you what you asked for , and we didnt try to double cross you , stammered a scientist in protest .
you did , admitted scar .
how very foolish of you .
with an icy cold stare at the scientists , scar nodded his head .
the seven guards instantly fired white beams from their guns , similar to the beam that came out of the device on scars palm , but without nearly the amount of brightness or power .
the scientists shrieked as they were melted down to their skeletal form , and then they all fell over each other to form a pile of bones .
it was too late to save the scientists , but johnny b .
fast had to act fast before scar got away with the super chip .
peeking out from his hiding spot , johnny planned his attack .
all the guards were standing very close to each other , which was the perfect time to strike .
still , he waited until scar started to walk away .
there was something about him that johnny didnt like .
it wasnt that he was scared of him , johnny b .
fast wasnt scared of anyone , but still , it didnt hurt to be safe rather than sorry .
once scar was far enough away , johnny bolted .
he came running out of his hiding spot , throwing out what looked like a yo yo as he ran .
the guards all yelled in surprise , but before they could mobilize , the yo yo shot out and wrapped around three of the seven guards .
as the string started to go around them , it grew in length and stuck to their clothes , creating a sticky web that kept their arms pinned to their sides .
the other four guards would be more of a problem .
they were far enough away that johnny couldnt use a similar gadget to stop them .
they brought up their laser guns and aimed them at johnny .
johnny slid to the ground and threw an egg at the floor .
as soon as the egg hit the ground it exploded into a strobe of multiple colors , flashing and blinding everyone in the immediate area except for johnny , who had kept his eyes closed when the egg burst .
lasers shot randomly over his head .
johnny stayed low to the ground as he quickly ran toward the nearest guard .
when the lights stopped , johnny figured he would be taking down the four guards before they would have a chance to recuperate and figure out what happened .
he just had to position himself to be at the right spot at the right moment .
thats what being a spy was all about .
the strobe light stopped , and johnny was ready to take down the five guards ?
six ?
where did that other one come from ?
seven , no eight guards .
plus the two in the back .
johnny wasnt sure what happened .
there were only supposed to be four guards , and now he had to deal with ten ?
things were not turning out as they were supposed to .
if johnny could get out of this in one piece , he would have to strongly consider taking a year off the spy business .
the ten guards , who could now see , brought their laser guns up in johnnys direction .
he had to think of something , fast .
really fast .
johnny froze .
uh oh , he managed to say .
it looked like turning fifteen wasnt going to work out very well for johnny b .
fast .
but then she appeared out of nowhere .
dropping down on the first guard from the half floor above , she knocked him out and instantly sprang toward the second .
before johnny or any of the other guards knew what was happening , the young girl had already knocked down four of the ten guards .
they looked to be unconscious , and johnny wasnt exactly sure what she was able to do to knock them out so fast .
the girl was wearing a black outfit and her brown hair was tide back in a ponytail .
she moved so gracefully and quickly that none of the guards had a chance to react .
reaching into a pouch at her side , the girl threw out a rubber ball at the group of six guards that were left .
the ball hit one of them right in the chest and then exploded out into a net that covered them all .
one of the guards managed to get out as the net fully caught and then electrocuted the remaining five .
johnny and the guard looked at her in awe .
are they dead ?
johnny asked .
just unconscious , she replied .
johnny and the last guard looked back at the net .
it was at that moment that they both realized they werent on the same team .
the guard brought up his laser gun , but johnny quickly knocked it aside and punched him out .
nice move , the girl commented as she looked at the nine guards she had taken out all by herself .
thanks .
um , you too , nice move , i mean moves , because you did more than my one .
the girl laughed at him it was a nice melodic sound , but johnny didnt like the fact that it was directed at him .
the warehouse was now empty , both scar and the chip were long gone .
the girl got a closer look at him .
youre that boy from school , johnny somethingclunker !
johnny clunker .
johnny hated his real name .
what kind of a name was clunker ?
it was the sort of name that guaranteed you wouldnt get picked for teams , or get to hang out with the cool kids .
it practically begged teachers who saw it on test papers to try and find any way they could to give him a failing mark .
no matter which way you looked at it , clunker was not cool .
which is what he capitalized on in school to keep his super spy identity secret , but that didnt mean he had to like it .
thats not my real name !
he blurted out before he could really think about it .
why did she make him so nervous ?
no , it is my real name .
but its not the name im going under right now , he tried to correct himself .
whats the name youre going under right now ?
she asked the obvious question , her eyebrow arched up in an amused glance .
im johnny b .
fast , he said , holding out his hand .
and im a super spy .
the girl looked at him for a moment and then burst out laughing again .
johnny felt really foolish holding out his hand for her to shake while she was laughing at him .
he slowly retracted his hand .
thanks , he mumbled .
she quickly composed herself .
im sorry .
i never met a spy who introduced themselves as a spy before .
maybe i admitted i was a spy to throw you off and make you think the last thing i was was a spy ?
johnny tried .
she looked like she was going to laugh again .
he had to get a hold of himself why was he so nervous ?
forget it , that just sounded terrible , he admitted .
she could see he was suffering , and her heart went out to him , i didnt mean to laugh , she offered .
yes you did , he shot back .
i guess no one ever means to laugh when they laugh .
thats the whole point of laughing , it takes you by surprise , she reasoned .
what a strange girl she was .
still , johnny couldnt deny the fact that she had flawlessly taken out ten guards by herself .
nine !
johnny had taken care of the last one , even if he was preoccupied at the time , it still counted .
trying to make up , she held out her hand for him to shake .
my real names nancy korrins , but you can call me seventy seven .
seventy seven ?
johnny asked .
yup , she offered back , her hand still stuck out between them .
what kind of a name is that ?
its my spy name , she replied , taking back her hand .
thats not a very cool spy name , johnny said .
spy names arent supposed to be cool , they just are .
johnny shook his head .
whats the point of having a spy name if it isnt going to be cool ?
thats just guy talk .
guys are always trying to look cool , or be cool , or have cool names , she reasoned .
besides , the whole point of it all is to save the world from evil .
i think the world would rather be saved by johnny b .
fast than by seventy seven , johnny shot back .
i dont think the world cares who saves it , as long as its saved , nancy , or seventy seven , replied .
as they were talking , a lone guard , the last one left in the warehouse , crept slowly toward them .
he had a laser gun in his hands , and he made sure to keep it lowered as he approached .
both johnny and nancy were too involved in their argument to notice .
spy names arent even supposed to be known , theyre supposed to be a secret !
nancy argued .
the guard got closer .
he could have taken the shot then , but he wanted to get even closer so that he couldnt miss .
maybe he could even take both of them out in one shot ?
you know , i didnt ask for your help , johnny stated .
but you needed it .
no , i had everything under control , johnny replied .
im sure thats what you thought , before you jumped in the middle of that group of , was it ten people ?
she asked , feigning not knowing how many guards there had been .
i was right about to take care of them .
im sure you were .
i had several ways of doing it !
he practically screamed at her .
id like to see one of them , she stated coolly .
and until i do , im going to assume that i saved you and that you need to thank me .
the guard was in position , he wasnt going to get a better shot than this .
he raised his laser gun up high , set it for an explosive blast , and aimed it at the two of them .
well , for one thing , i could have done this .
in one quick movement , johnny leaned sideways and threw a handful of marbles past nancy .
at the same time , nancy turned around and brought a whistle to her lips , letting out a sharp trill that caused the guard to drop his laser gun and grab his ears in pain as he was lifted off his feet from the blast .
meanwhile , the marbles johnny threw reached the guard and exploded , drenching him in a kaleidoscope of multicolored extra sticky paint .
the guard passed out .
johnny and nancy turned to look at each other .
i got him first , johnny stated .
you did not , nancy replied .
the moon cast a soft glow on the perfect looking neighborhood street .
the houses were all lined up in an orderly fashion down a straight road , and even the sidewalk was immaculate , with no cracks or chips that could be seen .
large , overgrown trees dotted the landscape , creating dark leering shadows over the houses .
johnny and nancy walked along the sidewalk .
every third house they passed was the exact same model , leaving only three distinct types of homes in the neighborhood .
most of the houses on the street had their lights off , hinting at the lateness of the hour .
that one is mine , johnny pointed to a house that looked mostly like all the others .
looks like dads asleep .
your father lets you stay up this late on a school night ?
nancy asked .
im a spy , staying out late is part of the job description , seventy seven .
he used her spy name in a mocking tone , trying to get back at her for making fun of his own .
besides , he usually goes to sleep early .
lots of stress at work gets him tired .
as soon as he had said it , a light went on in the house .
guess hes up going to have to sneak in again , said johnny .
what about your mom ?
she asked .
johnny looked down at the ground as they walked , suddenly getting quiet .
nancy realized that something was wrong , and thought it would be wise to give him his space .
they stopped walking and stood in front of his house .
johnny looked over at it .
the house was small , as houses go , but it looked comfortable and cozy .
my mom passed away a couple of years ago , johnny finally said .
when i was thirteen .
im sorry , nancy reached out her hand and placed it on his shoulder .
its been me and my dad since then .
he does what he can , but sometimes he doesnt really know how to be a mom .
especially at dinner time , johnny said as he watched his house .
nancy finally took her hand back .
does he know what you do ?
johnny almost laughed out loud .
no way .
if he found out id never be able to keep doing it .
being a spy isnt exactly a normal thing for someone still going to school .
johnny turned to look at her .
do your parents know ?
no .
well , i dont really know who my real parents are , nancy admitted .
how can you not know who your real parents are ?
i was adopted , she informed him .
theres no way they would be able to sleep at night if they knew i was out fighting crime .
johnny nodded in silence .
i guess were a lot like each other , johnny thought out loud .
in your dreams , she informed him .
i was trying to make you feel better .
like you could almost be in the same league as me , johnny shot back .
we didnt do that great tonight , the super chip got away , nancy said .
dont worry , well get it back .
besides , its just a little super chip , no big deal .
it is a big deal if you consider that with something that powerful , a normal computer could hack into and overrun any security network on the planet , giving the user access to funds , secrets , weapons , even nuclear weapons , nancy said , a worried expression coming over her face .
like i said , its no big deal , johnny tried to lighten the mood .
she smiled uneasily back .
it was such a small thing , the super chip .
it couldnt outright attack anyone , or be used to physically harm anything .
it was hard to believe that it presented much of a danger at all .
but that only increased its deceptive threat .
the super chip would act like a cancer , starting small and unnoticed , and slowly growing and tightening its hold until there was no way to separate it and no way to stop it .
from a small nothing to a world shaking monster , the united order would use the chip to make all technological security obsolete .
they would be in every corporation , every network , and inside every home .
they wouldnt be hacking into the system , they would be the system , and everyone else would be at their mercy .
nancy stepped away , getting ready to leave .
hey , where are you going ?
johnny asked .
home .
where do you live ?
he asked .
just a few streets down , she motioned with her hand .
johnny looked down the street , at the shadows and the swaying tree branches .
its late , i should walk you .
i walked you home today , you can walk me home next time , she informed him .
but its late , and youre a girl , its not safe , he pressed the issue .
you mean its not safe around me .
are you already forgetting how i saved you back at the warehouse ?
she asked .
i would have taken care of all of them , johnny started .
you would have , im sure of that beyond any doubt , but you didnt have to because i was there , nancy stated boldly .
she reached behind and pulled out an odd looking device .
it had a small handle , with three tubes extending out of it , and a large trigger just off the handle .
that looks like a cool gadget , johnny stated , his eyes instantly drawn to the technological wonder in her hands .
being a spy isnt about cool gadgets and names , she said again .
its half of it , or most of it anyway , johnny insisted , never taking his eyes off the device .
how does it work , what does it do ?
let me show you , she leaned in close , very close , johnny noticed as he felt a flutter in his stomach , and showed him the device .
she then pointed it at the trees and said , go go gadget she stopped short , noticing the look on his face and burst out laughing .
actually , you just push this button , she managed to say , after she got control over her laughter .
thats what i thought , johnny returned , doing his best to look and act as cool as possible after she was done laughing at him , again .
she pointed the small , hand held device at the branch of a nearby tree .
she pushed the button and a small grapnel shot out of the three tubes and attached itself to the tree trunk .
see you at school , johnny breakfast .
with a whoosh , nancy zipped up off the ground and disappeared into the depths of the trees .
its b .
fast !
johnny called after her .
johnny quietly opened the door to his room and slipped inside .
his room looked like an average enough room , in keeping with his secret identity there was a desk , computer , chair , and all his clothes dumped wherever there was a spot on the floor .
his walls were all white , and there wasnt a single thing on any of them , and his bed was up against the wall directly opposite from the door , nothing you would expect from a super spy .
johnny quickly changed out of his spy clothes and into a t shirt and a pair of jeans .
he picked up his cast off clothes from the floor and rummaged through them .
johnny pulled out an assortment of spy gadgets and weapons .
he put them down in a drawer in his computer desk , removed the ear piece out of his ear and tossed it in with everything else , then slid the drawer closed .
johnny looked at the computer and sighed .
it looked like it was older than he was , with a monitor so small that laptops had bigger screens .
the computer was turned off .
he leaned over and started typing on the keyboard johnny is the best spy in the world !
as soon as he hit the exclamation mark , a small humming noise came from all over the room .
panels in the wall slid up to reveal multiple display screens , the ceiling opened up slightly and a projector slipped out , turning on and displaying a holographic display of even more screens and a keyboard , all hovering in the air before him .
johnny walked over to the floating keyboard and started typing in midair with furious speed .
one of the monitors against the wall lit up with an image of an irate agent ackers .
pimples covered his entire face .
im going radio silent now , ackers started mimicking johnny with heavy sarcasm .
gee , that was only , i dont know , a million years ago !
we werent alive a million years ago , johnny said .
ackers froze him with a look .
johnny glanced apologetically at ackers face .
there was a two way video connection with them , so they could both hear and see each other .
im sorry ackers , something came up , johnny explained .
something is supposed to come up !
ackers explained .
youre on a mission , things are supposed to come up and im supposed to help you deal with them .
i know , it was an oversight .
oversight ?
whats that ?
i think it was more like an over mind , as in it was over and out of your mind to think about keeping me in the loop .
how am i supposed to help you if you dont let me help you ?
johnny shrugged .
if it wasnt for this , ackers gestured to the pimples all over his face , id be out there with you in the field .
instead , im locked up here in a basement , nurturing my skin condition and wondering what happened to the agent im supposed to be backing because he put me on radio silence !
johnny had to lean back and listen to ackers yell .
ackers didnt mean to get so upset he was really a good guy .
johnny could understand the frustration he must have felt at not knowing what was going on .
still , johnny didnt understand why pimples on a face would keep someone from being out there in the field .
johnny suspected it had more to do with ackers courage than his pimples .
ive been thinking , ackers continued .
they shouldnt even allow you to be able to put me on radio silence .
it shouldnt even be an option that you have .
im supposed to advise and guide you during missions , and if i think you not being advised or guided by me is a bad thing , then you shouldnt be able to do it .
his rant should be coming to an end soon , thought johnny .
they usually lasted a certain amount of time , and johnny could tell that ackers was beginning to slow down and run out of things to say .
i think i will put in a request for having that option removed before your next mission , but ackers kept going .
maybe he had a bit more left to complain about .
johnny liked ackers .
how could he not ?
he knew ackers meant well .
there was a knock at the door .
it was his dad !
johnny sprang into action .
he couldnt let his dad see all the computers and gadgets .
sorry ackers , have to go .
johnny had two choices , he could type in his password into the old keyboard lying on the desk , or he could hit enter and put the whole system into sleep mode .
son , can i come in ?
his father asked from behind the door .
there wasnt any time to type in the whole password .
just a moment dad !
i suppose youre going to go radio silent again ?
ackers asked sarcastically .
johnny didnt even bother to reply , he slammed the enter key on his old computer as hard as he could .
all the panels slid down covering the monitors , the projector from the ceiling turned off , killing the holographic displays .
the projector then slid up , allowing the hole in the ceiling to close .
within moments johnnys room looked just like an ordinary room again .
johnny jumped onto his bed and grabbed a comic .
okay dad , come on in , johnny called .
the door opened and his dad , henry clunker , walked into the room .
johnnys dad was about medium height and slightly pudgy .
his hair always looked a bit uncombed , and his glasses were always a little crooked .
he was easy with a smile and quite clumsy , getting into accidents more often than he cared to admit .
what was taking you so long ?
henry asked .
i had to clean up my room a bit , johnny answered .
henry looked around the messy room there were clothes still on the floor and things still out of place .
henry would have hated to see what it looked like before johnny cleaned .
dont worry , ill get to it , johnny said , seeing his dads bemused look .
oh , of course , henry said .
henry wasnt big into discipline , so he usually made a small attempt , and then ended up giving in with an , oh , of course , to whatever reason johnny had for not doing what he was supposed to be doing .
its kind of late , isnt it ?
henry asked .
yeah , i was just going to do some homework before going to bed , johnny offered , before realizing he was holding a comic .
he quickly shoved it aside .
henry nodded and beamed .
that was his son , always staying on top of his school work .
thats great to hear son , im so happy you take your school work so seriously .
johnny smiled weakly .
he was going to have to put more time into some of his subjects .
truth be told , being a super spy was a difficult business , and he didnt always find time to fit school into his schedule as much as he liked , especially when it came to ms. sniders and her english class .
i just got this note from school , henry continued , reaching into his pocket and pulling out a paper on school letterhead .
its from ms. sniders .
i believe shes your english teacher ?
johnny swallowed uneasily .
how bad could it get ?
he thought of the woman , and she somehow reached out from across space and time to torment him .
uh , yeah , shes my english teacher , was all johnny could say .
are you having some trouble in her class ?
henry asked , a concerned look on his face .
johnnys dad would believe anything he said , and it was because of that very reason that johnny hated lying to him .
i just dont get some of the things she teaches very well , johnny said .
he didnt tell his dad the part about her being a lousy teacher who couldnt teach a newborn baby how to breathe if she had to .
or the fact that she could suck all the happiness and motivation out of a classroom just by giving students her evil glare .
henry leaned back against johnnys computer desk and accidentally hit the enter key on the keyboard as he was settling down to read the note .
instantly , all the panels slid up , the projector came down from the ceiling and projected the three dimensional keyboard right behind where johnnys dad was leaning .
ackers angry and impatient face came up on the screen at the far end of the wall on a screen almost as big as the wall itself , magnifying every aspect of his pimples and his disgruntled scowl .
henry missed all of this as he was studying the note .
yes , it says here that you havent been handing in all your assignments , and that you dont do very well on some of the essays , henry continued .
johnny had to do something !
he couldnt let his dad see all the super spy equipment that johnny had installed in their house .
ill try harder dad , johnny started to say as he tried to move , without drawing too much attention , to get near the keyboard with the enter key that would hide all the advanced technology .
she just doesnt explain some of the concepts of english very well , like all those words and sentences and things , johnny wasnt even thinking about what he was saying , he was just trying to find a way to get to that keyboard .
henry put the note down and looked at his son .
johnny froze .
i just wish you would have come to me sooner about all of this .
im pretty good at english .
i used to do well back in the day before we had all these computers to do our spellchecking and thinking for us , henry patted the monitor of the ten year old computer he was leaning beside .
johnny looked from the old , antique computer beside his dad to the three dimensional keyboard and super flat monitors behind him , not to mention the larger than life display of ackers on the far wall who was still glowering and scowling and looking generally put out and neglected .
henry put his hand on his sons shoulder .
son , well do what we can to bring your mark up .
dont worry about this , your dad is on the scene now , and together we can do anything !
henry was always super optimistic about everything .
not that that was a bad thing , but sometimes johnny felt that his dad , as much as johnny loved him , was a bit nave about how the world worked .
johnny felt guilty as soon as he had the thought .
his dad was just trying to help .
well start studying together tomorrow , henry said as he turned to walk away .
dad !
johnny cried out .
henry turned back in alarm , having just missed seeing the advanced computers behind him .
the giant display of ackers shook his head in the background , and slapped a supersized hand against his supersized head .
it made a small noise and henry almost turned around again .
johnny grabbed his dads shoulders and spun him around to face him again .
what !
what is it son ?
henry asked in alarm .
i just wanted to let you know that i appreciate what youre doing for me .
and that i wont let you down .
math might be a hard subject for me , but i think that with your help ill be able to get through it .
as johnny spoke , he slowly made his way around to get closer to the keyboard of his ten year old computer .
are you having trouble in math as well ?
henry asked .
i meant english , johnny corrected himself .
ackers just shook his head in the background , exasperated .
it makes me really proud to hear you say that , henry said , beaming .
i know that if your mother could see you and your dedication , she would be proud too .
johnny finally made it to the keyboard and quickly hit the enter key .
all the computer screens were instantly covered with a panel sliding down .
ackers opened his mouth to say something , but he was shut out before he could make a noise .
the projector in the ceiling retracted up and out of sight , the three dimensional display of the keyboard disappearing along with it .
johnny let out a sigh of relief .
his father turned around then , to see what had troubled johnny so much .
seeing an ordinary looking messy room , henry turned back to face his son .
dont worry yourself so much , you dont have to clean your room tonight .
i can see that this is a big commitment from you , henry said , holding up the letter , not knowing the truth of johnnys distress .
well start first thing tomorrow morning .
dont you worry , well get a tutor , several if we have to !
this seems to mean a lot to you , and i wont let you down !
henrys father clamped a hand down on his sons shoulder , giving it a reassuring squeeze .
now its late , get some sleep , henry turned and made his way out of the room , but not before he ran into the desk and door on his way out .
excuse me , henry said as he exited .
johnnys dad was very clumsy it somehow fit with their last name clunker .
johnny fell back on his bed and closed his eyes in despair .
he hated english class .
in a darkened room with a single light source sat a woman with jet black hair .
the widow black was her spy name , and she was watching a computer monitor which showed the fight at the warehouse over the super chip .
she was dressed all in black , with a single zipper that ran up the front of her skin tight suit .
the widow black moved her hand in the air , and the monitors changed to show a different perspective of the fight .
she was wearing a glove on her right hand with blinking lights all over it .
with gestures from her hand , she was able to control the computers in the room .
she was in her late forties , but it was almost impossible to tell her exact age because of her extreme beauty and wild , flowing hair .
her face resembled a classical statue it was both beautiful and cold .
her lips made a determined , thin line as she watched footage of johnny and nancy fighting the guards .
poorly executed .
sloppy , she commented .
it was hard to tell whether she was talking about the guards , or the way that johnny and nancy were able to beat them .
the widow black watched as johnny and nancy talked .
never speak to the enemy , and never during a hot zone , she said to herself .
she waved her hand in the air , and the image froze on johnny .
the widow black stared at the image , studying it .
you are in over your head , and there will come a time when you will regret these actions .
she lingered on the image a bit , before finally tilting her finger and allowing it to continue playing .
the widow black brought her other hand up to her ear and pressed a button on a device .
a voice came through on the other end it was scars .
yes ?
you have the chip , the widow black told as much as asked .
we have it .
good .
i will meet with you .
i will give you the coordinates .
there was a measure of malice in the widow blacks voice .
dont let anything happen to that chip .
chapter 2 trouble at school and work the school looked just like a regular school , so naturally johnny didnt feel like going inside .
it wasnt that he disliked school , he just felt that he didnt apply himself enough , which usually brought up feelings of guilt .
he wanted to apply himself more , but with his regular spy job it was becoming harder and harder to sleep , let alone study .
still , as johnny went through his usual excuses in his head , he knew that he had no one to blame but himself .
school was important , and it was doubly important to a super spy who had to know everything he could about the world .
ill do better , he promised himself .
a passing kid heard him say it and turned to look .
seeing that there was no one else around , the kid realized that johnny was talking to himself .
slightly embarrassed , johnny gave him a weak smile .
the kid looked away and shook his head .
i have to make sure no one thinks im crazy while i do better , johnny thought , wanting to avoid any further stares and head shakings .
at least it helped with his identity , making it even more likely that he was unlikely to be a super spy .
he also wanted a chance to try and talk to nancy .
johnny was interested in how she became a super spy , and found out about the chip and where it was being traded , and how she learned how to fight like that , and where she got all those cool gadgets .
his mind thoroughly off of his school subjects , johnny headed into the school without much prospect of doing better at it .
nancy !
johnny whispered as loud as he could while still being able to call what he was doing whispering .
she sat just ahead of him , and currently had her back to him while she was listening to their english teacher talk about english .
nancy , johnny tried again .
ms. sniders , their english teacher , swooped her beady eyes around the room from the front of the class .
did i hear someone talking ?
she asked .
johnny lowered in his seat and kept his eyes down .
ms. sniders was an old , strict woman .
she liked her class to be absolutely silent while she taught .
she had been known to throw students in detention , make them write extra essays , and even create entire extra projects just because they were found talking in class .
johnny did not want to have to write any essays or create any projects .
he waited while she passed by his desk , looking for another sound from the culprit .
she was a tall , thin woman .
every single student in her ninth grade class had to look up to her , and every single student was also scared to death of her .
she had really thick glasses that looked like they went out of style sixty years ago , and the dresses she wore always had polka dots on them .
i know i heard talking .
you might as well come clean now before it gets worse for you , she said as she stalked down the aisles of desks .
if theres one thing we all hate , its talking .
ms. sniders always included the entire class in on what it was she hated .
she passed by johnnys desk again , adjusting her glasses as she stared in his direction .
johnny kept his eyes down to the ground .
she must have developed very strong neck muscles by having to keep her head up with those really heavy glasses on .
johnny bet that if she took off the glasses , her head would whip back with the tremendous force of years of straining muscles .
if the culprit refuses to come clean , if they insist on hiding , in spite of how much we all hate cowards , then i have no choice but to continue the lesson .
that didnt sound like much of a threat to johnny , in spite of the fact that he hated her lessons .
she turned her back to them and began to write on the board .
it didnt seem like ms. sniders liked being a teacher .
nancy !
johnny tried again .
nancy turned her head back to look at him slightly .
are you insane ?
she asked .
i wanted to ask you some more questions about last night .
now ?
nancy hissed back .
even though they were both super spies , neither one of them wanted to mess with ms. sniders .
i wanted to ask how you became a spy , johnny pressed .
no , well talk later , nancy turned around and faced the front again .
but johnny wasnt finished .
dont worry , shes old and probably as deaf as as deaf as what ?
boomed ms. sniders voice .
johnny froze .
she was standing directly beside him , hands on hips , stern glare directed straight down on him .
johnny thought she had still been at the front of the class he hadnt even noticed her make her way over to his desk .
he tried to answer her , his mouth moved , but for some reason no sounds were coming out .
out with it mr. clunker , we all want to hear what you have to say .
johnny looked around the room .
all of his classmates , including nancy , were looking at him .
it certainly seemed like they all wanted to hear what he had to say .
johnny wanted to hear it also , because he had no idea what it was that he should say .
i was just thinking , johnny started .
what else should he say ?
that he was wondering how someone else managed to become a super spy ?
i was just wondering , johnny stammered .
yes mr. clunker , you were thinking and wondering what ?
the condition of my deafness ?
ms. sniders leaned down and sneered in his face , waiting for his answer .
her breath smelled foul and old , like the air from a long sealed tomb .
johnny actually had an experience with a tomb and mummy , so he knew exactly what that smelled like .
he could do this .
just think of something to say that would get her far away from him .
the problem was that her breath was so bad that it was driving out any other thought that johnny might have had .
his eyes strayed to the board .
ms. sniders was writing the chapter homework for the week .
it was all johnny had , so he grabbed it .
i was just wondering , just thinking if we could move on ahead , beyond the assigned chapter , and do extra work for the week .
it wasnt great .
it wasnt even good in fact , it was pretty bad , but at least johnny had thought of something .
ms. sniders looked at him a moment longer .
johnny had to put up with that foul breath for just a few more seconds and then he would be fine .
he wondered what it was in her mouth that could take normal smelling air and turn it into such a brutal weapon in the time it took someone to inhale and exhale .
finally , after what seemed like an eternity , ms. sniders straightened up .
johnny breathed in fresh air .
he hadnt noticed , but he had started holding his breath .
you were thinking , using all your little brain power to ask me if you could do extra work ?
ms. sniders asked as she stalked down the aisle and back to the front of the class .
johnny couldnt understand it , but a lot of the other students were looking at him with a grim attitude .
why ?
what had he done ?
as you know class , i dont believe there is such a thing as a stupid question .
you have to learn , the government pays me a meager salary to make sure that you do , so questions are part of your expected job requirement , she continued .
johnny had a nagging feeling in his stomach , like he had just done something that he was going to regret .
and then , it slowly came to him .
he realized what he had done .
asking me if you can do more work is , in fact , a stupid question , ms. sniders proclaimed as she looked straight at johnny .
not only is more work encouraged in most classes , it is expected in mine .
so thanks to mr. clunker , we are all going to do three chapters , instead of one , for the week .
we are all very grateful for mr. clunkers insight .
johnny started sinking down in his chair .
there she went using that we word again .
johnny was pretty sure she wouldnt be doing any chapters at all .
the grim faces around him turned to angry glares .
johnny tried to smile back weakly .
nancy just looked at him blankly , and then shook her head .
he didnt feel much like a super spy at that moment .
johnny stood glumly in line at the cafeteria .
he stared at the cold looking food waiting for him when he finally got to the end .
johnny always tried to remind himself to make his own lunch at home , to spare him the fake looking and tasting food that the school always offered , but he never found the time to make it when he remembered .
next time for sure , he promised himself .
the line shuffled forward .
the cafeteria lady plumped a nice helping of fake mashed potatoes and gravy on the next students plate , not looking too happy while she did it .
no one at the school really knew her name she never looked at anyone and never initiated or responded much to conversation .
because of that , she was just known as the cafeteria lady .
next , she droned in her bored , tired voice .
the line shuffled forward again .
the cafeteria lady plunked the next helping of fake food down onto nancys plate , weighing it down considerably and forcing nancy to compensate to keep her tray up .
thank you , nancy said .
next , replied the cafeteria lady .
johnny really wanted to talk to nancy , but he didnt want to give up his place in line .
he looked behind him and saw how far the line stretched back .
johnny would have to start all over again if he lost his place .
no one in the line behind him looked very happy they were probably all thinking the same thing about making their lunches next time .
maybe missing lunch wasnt the worst thing in the world ?
nancy weaved her way around students and tables , looking for a place to sit .
johnny decided he had to talk to nancy .
he left his place in line , much to the dismay of the student behind him who would now be served his lunch that much faster .
johnny trailed nancy , trying to quickly dodge the students faster than she was so he could catch up to her .
he wasnt really looking in front of him and ran straight into a student who purposely moved to block his way .
the student was really big it was like running into a soft wall .
johnny looked up , way up , to see bob looking down , way down at him .
bob didnt look very happy either it must have been something that was contagious at school that week .
two other students appeared on either side of bob frank and jim .
the three of them were always around each other because no one else in the school was big enough to survive their rough behavior .
you werent watching where i was going , bob said to him .
a mistake i will never make again , johnny quickly replied as he tried to side step bob , frank and jim .
the three of them all shifted over to block his way again .
johnny had completely lost sight of nancy now , but then again he pretty much lost sight of everything except the three of them at the moment .
you made the mistake again , bob leered down at him .
johnny didnt understand .
he never really did anything to bother bob in the past , and while he always saw the three of them picking on other students , johnny was never one of their targets .
he always felt guilty that he never helped those students stand up to these bullies , and he pretty much knew without a doubt that no one would be coming to help him now .
it served him right for turning a blind eye .
looks like youre surrounded by the fourth wall , said frank while he hit his fist into his palm .
johnny almost laughed out loud .
they called themselves the fourth wall because they thought they were all so big that if they had one more member they could hold a roof over their heads .
at least thats what johnny thought they meant .
it was hard to tell when each one of them was already as big as a house .
i dont have time for this right now , johnny tried as he moved to the right to slide past them again .
predictably , the entire fourth wall shifted with him , once again blocking his way .
johnny was nervous .
worse , he couldnt understand why he was nervous .
he was a super spy , and could take out entire platoons of guards , sneak past high tech security , and single handedly save the world from evil .
yet here he was being confronted by three bullies and he was at a loss as to what to do .
hed like to think it was because now he was johnny clunker , and clunker kept a low profile , stayed out of peoples way , and didnt save the world on an almost daily basis .
you just made time , bob said .
by now all the students in the cafeteria were watching them .
johnny looked uncomfortably around at everyone , trying to remember how he got into this mess in the first place .
it seemed that every time he wanted to talk to nancy , he was running into people trying to stop him .
johnny looked bob in the eye .
i dont want to hurt you .
bob laughed .
several people in the cafeteria laughed along .
some of them were laughing because , johnny had to admit , it was genuinely funny .
bob must have weighed three times more than him , and johnny could only imagine how odd his warning must have looked .
but some of the other people were laughing out of relief because they were usually the target of the fourth walls attacks .
this johnny didnt find so funny .
people should stick up for themselves .
johnny was going to show them how .
somewhere in the back of his mind , johnny knew he wasnt acting in the best way to protect his secret identity .
im serious .
if you continue to get in my way , im going to have to put you in your place , johnny said with an icy cold stare .
wham !
bob punched johnny hard in the stomach .
johnny instantly fell to his knees and tried to get some breath into his lungs .
he hadnt seen that coming must have been a sucker punch .
some super spy he was turning out to be .
i think you hurt my fist with all your skin and bones , bob laughed .
leave him alone !
johnny looked up through the pain to find that nancy was standing beside him .
he tried to tell her to get out of the way , but he still couldnt remember how to breathe .
looks like your moms here to save you , frank laughed .
this was slowly turning from bad to worse .
it was bad enough that he couldnt take out the fourth wall , but it was worse that he might be rescued by a girl .
again !
enough was enough .
johnny struggled to stand up and face down his bullies .
walk away , right now , johnny said , a calm inner strength radiating from him before he ruined the effect by coughing and trying to get more air into his lungs .
still , the bullies did pause for a moment , and momentarily looked at each other and wondered what they should do .
but then they remembered that they were the fourth wall , and they backed down from nobody .
im scared , bob said sarcastically , and he took another swing at johnny .
dozens of thoughts raced through johnnys mind .
first , he started thinking about the quickest way to take down all three bullies , but then he began revising his plan to try and keep his secret identity a secret by not revealing his skills to all the people that were watching the fight .
but there simply wasnt any more time to think .
johnny intercepted the swing near his face , making it look like he got hit , and shifted slightly , redirecting the hit toward frank while pretending to stumble forward .
frank caught the punch right in his face .
johnnys back was towards jim and jim wasted no time in taking advantage of an unfair situation .
he swung at the back of johnnys head with all his might .
but before his fist could get there , nancy dropped down on one leg and swung out with her other one , kicking jims knees out from under him .
jim fell to the ground in a large heap .
johnny looked over at jim , and then back at nancy .
youre welcome , she said .
before bob knew what was going on , he had lost two of his accomplices .
looks like youll have to be the first wall now , johnny commented , before realizing that he was screwing up his secret identity again .
i mean , please dont hurt me !
bob didnt understand what was going on , was clunker joking ?
what had just happened to frank and jim ?
i am going to hurt you !
bob declared , his simple mind latching onto the last thing he had heard and going with it .
with a yell , bob charged at johnny .
bob was a very large kid , and once he got moving there was almost nothing that could stop him .
johnny waited until the last possible moment , and then spun and rolled out of the way , throwing himself sprawling onto the ground to look like he tripped .
bob watched him go out of the corner of his eye , but like a freight train he just kept moving forward , unable to stop .
the crowd of spectators had a moment to look on in horror before bob plowed right into them , knocking at least a dozen students to the ground and managing to land on a good number of them .
nancy looked on in amazement at the carnage spread out all around them .
hands and feet tried to poke out from under bobs massive form , there were muffled cries for help and groans of pain .
bob just looked dazed .
what do we have here ?
an icy cold voice asked from behind johnny .
johnny cringed .
he knew that voice he dreaded that voice .
slowly he turned around to see ms. sniders disapproving look spread out to all of them like a lighthouse beam , slashing back and forth to include everyone in the area .
she reached down with each hand and clamped her fingers on franks and jims ears .
they yelped in pain .
she pulled them up .
they struggled to stand up as fast as they could before she could yank their ears off of their head .
she did it with machine like precision , and it looked like she would have been able to pick them up all by herself if they didnt cooperate .
we dont like disruptions in the cafeteria , do we now ?
she asked everyone .
johnny could see the crowd start to quietly disperse as the students tried to slink away before they were singled out by ms. sniders .
he and nancy had no chance to do that ms. sniders had already focused her intense , cold , half smile on him .
johnny had no idea how someone could show so many outward signs of emotion without seeming to feel them .
for some reason her eyes always looked lifeless and cold .
it was the worst when she smiled .
do we ?
she asked again , directing the question to frank and jim beside her .
no !
yelped frank .
we dont , pleaded jim .
johnny forgot what the original question was .
she smiled that cold , hard smile at them and released their ears .
then she turned to bob , who was just then struggling to get off of the people crushed under him .
bob looked up , saw ms. sniders looking at him , and froze .
im sorry , he squeaked .
she nodded a cold , grim nod .
finally , ms. sniders turned her gaze on johnny and nancy .
this is quite a ruckus you have caused , isnt it , she told them .
they started it , johnny tried to explain .
it seems perfectly obvious to everyone who was the instigator here , ms. sniders continued .
detention , today , for both of you , she declared .
what ?
nancy all but shouted .
ms. sniders looked at nancy .
nancy froze under that gaze as if ms. sniders was medusa .
do you think , perhaps , that we are being unfair ?
perhaps one detention is not enough , you may need more time to think about what you have done .
nancy and johnny looked down at the ground .
ms. sniders continued to glare at them , almost daring them to say anything else .
finally , satisfied , her face broke into a thin smile , but her eyes were still cold and lifeless .
ms. sniders turned and walked away from them .
henry clunker was frantic .
he was hunched over his desk , shifting through piles of paperwork and tossing it around with abandon , creating a bigger mess than he had before .
the desk was filled to overflowing with paper , pens , clipboards , used coffee mugs , and a large , old computer .
not finding what it was he was looking for , henry dumped the massive pile back onto his desk and started opening his desk drawers , banging his elbow on the cubicle wall behind him .
henrys cubicle was in the corner of the fifth floor , barely bigger than his desk , giving him almost no room to move the hard , wooden chair he sat on .
other people around him had more space , with newer computers and more comfortably shaped chairs .
i know its here somewhere , henry said out loud .
it had to be there because henry never threw anything out .
his entire cubicle was one large deposit of paper waste .
he kept digging , accidentally knocking over a large pile and then watching in dismay as the entire stack tipped over and fell to the floor .
henry dove to his knees and starting picking up the paper , resigning himself to a long and difficult day , when he found himself staring at a pair of expensive shoes right in front of him .
the shoes were attached to legs , and the legs were attached to mr. underling , his boss .
henry , down on his hands and knees , slowly looked up to see mr. underling glaring down at him .
mr. underling was an old man , with chalk white hair and eyebrows .
he had a white mustache that looked out of style , and complemented his entire look with a white button up shirt and a black tie and pants .
it looked very much like mr. underling hadnt yet discovered color .
henry , by comparison , had a mixture of browns and grays that didnt seem to go together very well .
he never spent as much time figuring out what to wear as he should , but then he spent even less time thinking about what people thought about his appearance , so it all worked out rather well .
when he heard other people talk about the black and white drabness of mr. underlings outfits , henry would support his boss by saying that at least his color scheme made it easy to pick him out in a crowd .
people always thought that henry was joking it was what saved him from being a complete social outcast .
have you found that sales report yet , clinker ?
his boss boomed .
its clunker , henry corrected .
his boss scowled at him .
almost , ive narrowed it down to the right side , henry said triumphantly as he stood up and gestured to the city of paper buildings that were on his desk .
we are in a meeting right now , and we cant go on until you present the sales report .
ive almost got it , henry stalled for time .
mr. underling shook his head as he looked at what henry would have to search through .
why dont you just get it off the computer and print it out again ?
mr. underling said .
my computer is still booting up , henry explained .
i turn it on first thing in the morning , and then its up and running just before lunch time .
mr. underling shook his head again .
just get me the report , and then get into the meeting to give it to me !
mr. underling stormed off before henry could respond .
henry tried to explain to mr. underlings back that he was just in the process of doing that very thing when he realized at the last moment that it might look like he was being sarcastic .
still , he had to say something to let his boss know that he was hard at work trying to fulfill his wishes .
okay !
henry called out after him , yelling it out loudly enough that mr. underling would hear him from the distance he had traveled .
mr. underling stopped , turned , and glared at him again .
a few other heads popped up from cubicles to stare at henry .
henry waved weakly and then sat back down on his hard chair .
maybe he shouldnt have yelled quite so loud ?
maybe he shouldnt have said anything at all ?
maybe he should have come in early to give his computer a head start in booting up ?
what was he supposed to be doing again ?
looking for the sales report !
henry started sorting through the piles of paper with renewed energy , like he was digging for buried treasure .
henry knocked weakly on the closed door of the conference room .
hello ?
he practically whispered to the door .
he tried knocking again , and then he waited .
henry could hear voices on the other side , but he wasnt sure if anyone could hear him .
he certainly didnt want to yell out again , once that day was clearly enough .
hello , i found it , henry whispered again , clutching several pieces of paper in his hand as he knocked again .
henry was going to have to assert himself a bit more he was going to have to open the door and go in boldly .
didnt mr. underling say he needed this report ?
henry could picture it now .
mr. underling was probably at the front of the room stalling for time , waiting for henry to swoop in and save him with the report .
henry turned the knob of the door as slowly and quietly as he could .
the door creaked open and henry started tiptoeing into the room .
he kept his eyes down and tried to move as slowly as possible so as not to attract any attention .
now he just had to locate mr. underling and slide him the report without anyone noticing .
he could do it at a time when the presentation was getting loud , and everyone had their attention diverted .
henry kept his eyes on the ground .
he had managed to walk inside , but he was still standing by the door .
he was going to have to look up if he was to find where mr. underling was .
but he didnt want to look up because , to henrys way of thinking , by looking up he would attract attention .
unfortunately , the presentation didnt seem to be getting louder .
now that henry thought about it , he couldnt hear anything at all .
the voices that he heard from outside the door had completely stopped since he opened the door .
henry listened , and began to realize that there were no voices at all .
everything in the room was quiet .
henry looked up .
he saw twenty people , all in expensive business suits , looking back at him .
every single person in the room , including his boss mr. underling , had stopped what they were doing and were focusing their complete attention on henry .
henry wanted to pass out .
he noticed that he was still clutching the door knob with a straining hand .
henry smiled weakly and let go of the door .
he had been hunched over , trying to make himself smaller when he had gone into the room , and now he straightened up and gave a small wave to everyone .
no one waved back .
mr. underling was still angrily staring at him from the front of the room .
henry had interrupted whatever presentation he was giving by trying to enter as quietly as possible .
well ?
mr. underling finally asked .
well ?
well what ?
what was henry doing here again ?
he looked down at his hand and saw the sales report clutched in a shaking , life threatening grip .
the sales report !
he cried in relief as he held up the papers which were in danger of being crumpled up in his hand .
well ?
mr. underling said again , holding out his hand for the papers .
henry looked confused at mr. underlings outstretched hand before he realized that mr. underling wanted henry to give him the papers .
henry hated when he got this nervous it was a wonder that he remembered how to breathe under the stress he felt .
yes , here is the sales report , henry tried to say with an air of authority as he put the slightly crumpled papers in mr. underlings hand .
youll find everything you need is there for the numbers to make sense , henry continued , when he really should have just stayed quiet .
mr. underling didnt respond he just looked over the reports silently .
henry looked out to all the other people in the meeting , who were looking blankly back at him and mr. underling .
henry didnt want to keep looking at all those people that were looking at him , so he went back to staring at the floor .
mr. crinkle .
henry kept studying the floor .
crinkle !
henry looked up with a start to see mr. underling fuming at him .
its , uh , clunker , sir , henry tried to explain .
mr. underling shoved the papers back in henrys hands .
henry was confused .
arent all the papers here ?
henry asked weakly as he started going through them .
they are there all right , theres only one small problem , mr. underling was talking in a really calm voice , which was scaring henry more than if he were yelling at the top of his lungs .
and then henry saw the month beside the date on the sales report .
oh no , this is last months sales report , henry stated with fear .
it gets better than that , mr. underling said in his deadly calm .
it is last months and last years sales report !
henry slowly moved his eyes back up the page to see the year beside the month beside the date column .
there it was , plain as day .
henry had just delivered a sales report to his boss that was over a year old .
slowly , he looked back up at his boss and tried to smile .
it looks like the company did well last year , henry tried .
no one laughed .
johnny hated detention .
he didnt have it yet , but sitting in the office waiting to speak to the principal , he knew he was going to get it .
technically he did have it , because ms. sniders had already given it to him , but he knew that students could get these things overturned if they said the right things to the principal .
nancy opened the door from the principals office and came and sat down beside him .
at least he was finally going to get a chance to talk to her .
can you believe it ?
we got blamed for starting the fight !
johnny started complaining instantly .
we have more important things to worry about , nancy said .
like getting the super chip back .
we never even had it in the first place , johnny said .
you know what i mean , she returned hotly .
in the short time johnny had known her , he got the distinct impression that nancy liked to lecture him on things .
maybe it made her feel like she was better than he was ?
or maybe she felt because she knew some things better she knew everything better ?
relax , well get it , johnny replied casually , trying to be a bit condescending to get back at her for lecturing him .
it didnt work .
do you know what the super chip does ?
nancy said in her most perfectly annoying lecturing voice .
of course i do , everyone does , johnny replied , trying to deflect her question .
it didnt work .
what does it do ?
she asked him point blank , the look on her face clearly suggesting that she didnt believe he knew .
it does the same thing a regular chip does and more , johnny replied vaguely .
wow , nancy replied , pretending to be impressed .
you really are a super spy .
johnny threw up his hands in resignation .
fine , i dont really know what it does .
so tell me already , again , for the second or third time , because you know you want to and theres nothing i can do to stop you .
im glad to see youre finally learning , she said .
johnny tried to think of something to say , but then just waved the thought away .
go on , he said .
just try to be less annoying than usual .
the super chip is faster than any other processor in existence .
its actually ten times faster , and has built in power for circumventing other computer bottlenecks .
it can run circles around other computers , it can steal passwords , break encryptions , discover hidden security backups .
with this chip , there is no defense against computer hacking .
they could steal money from bank accounts , break into important military installations , and hold the world for ransom .
nancy took a deep breath , waiting to get a reaction from johnny .
she didnt get one .
thats pretty much exactly what you said the first time , he told her .
but it doesnt seem to be sinking in .
you dont seem to fully realize the danger .
i get it , super chip plus bad guys equals super bad guys , he tried to assure her .
nancy looked like she was going to hit him .
youre very sure of yourself , arent you ?
she asked .
johnny leaned over , looking around the office as the people around them went about their work , oblivious to the importance of what the two of them were talking about .
i think its time to introduce you to the rest of the team .
from there we can formulate where the united order is most likely to meet to try and use the super chip .
you have a team behind you ?
nancy asked .
johnny shrugged , yeah , sure .
how else would i have learned my skills ?
or got a hold of the really cool gadgets ive got .
for the first time since johnny started talking to her , he could tell that nancy was really impressed and at a loss for words .
dont you have a team ?
he had to ask .
nancy looked away , studied the floor a bit .
you dont , do you ?
johnny pressed .
sure ive got one , an organization anyway , she answered flippantly .
but johnny wasnt fooled .
but then who trained you ?
or gave you those gadgets ?
johnny asked .
nancy thought he was getting really irritating , and was beginning to question whether working with him was such a good idea .
who needed a team ?
nancy had her handler , field operative , and trainer all in one person .
and as far as nancy was concerned , that was the only person she needed .
johnny simply wasnt as good a spy , in her mind , if he needed an entire team to help him .
the principal stuck her head out of her office , johnny clunker , i will see you now .
before johnny could respond she had disappeared back into her office .
its your turn , nancy pointed out , even though it was obvious .
dont think youre getting away from answering the question that easily , johnny smirked .
he could be so irritating sometimes !
you can ask me as much as you like , but im not going to tell you , nancy replied .
why not ?
because , its secret , nancy said defensively .
of course its secret , were super spies .
but im trusting you , you can trust me a little too , johnny said .
mr. clunker , are you coming or not ?
the principal asked again with an irritated voice as she stuck her head back out .
its your turn , mr. clunker , nancy said , putting the emphasis on his last name , which she knew he hated .
fine , johnny huffed , getting to his feet and preparing to enter the principals office .
just let me know one thing before i go in there how much detention did you end up getting for the cafeteria incident ?
none , nancy replied .
none ?
johnny couldnt believe it .
not a single day , nancy replied smugly .
johnny brightened up a little .
maybe this wasnt going to be so bad .
the principal probably knew that this wasnt their fault , and that the fourth wall ended up starting everything , like they usually do .
were you asked anything ?
johnny inquired .
she asked me what happened , i told her , nancy replied .
so it was going to be that easy , johnny thought to himself as he turned to head into the principals office .
still , from johnnys experience he knew that nothing usually went that smoothly .
he looked back at nancy before he went in .
what , exactly , did you tell her ?
he asked .
i told her it was all your fault , nancy answered .
chapter 3 department x two weeks of detention !
johnny cried for what must have been the millionth time .
nancy rolled her eyes as she had to hear about it again .
do you know how long that will take to serve ?
johnny asked .
two weeks ?
nancy replied .
hardly !
johnny paced away from her in the small cramped confines of the steel elevator they were in .
before she could breathe a sigh of relief , he walked back over and started up again .
they might say its two weeks , johnny continued , but every day feels like a year .
and since i have to serve ten school days of detention , it will feel like ten years of time !
but it will still be over in two weeks , nancy offered .
johnny squinted his eyes and gave her a look .
werent you listening ?
he asked .
i was trying not to .
it was all thanks to you , he declared .
you dont have to thank me .
believe me , i wont !
he yelled .
johnnys yell reverberated off the walls of the quickly descending elevator .
they were traveling down , deep into the earth , where johnnys secret spy group , department x , had one of its main operations centers .
nancy was quite impressed already , but she tried to appear nonchalant about the whole thing .
johnny had taken her to a garbage dump .
and in the garbage dump was a cast off shipping container .
there had been a lock on the container that looked too expensive for it to be there .
johnny had entered a code and they had stepped inside the container .
the next thing nancy knew she was in a super sonic elevator traveling at high speeds .
a screen came up on the elevator wall with ackers face on it .
nancy was a little taken aback upon seeing all the pimples all over his face , but she did her best to hide her reaction .
ackers was watching her closely he hated when people looked at his pimples .
what are you looking at ?
ackers jumped right to the point .
nancy looked away , trying to appear casual , before acting surprised that the question was directed at her .
johnny knew exactly what was going on .
whatever you do , dont say anything about the pimples , he whispered to her .
or ill be in even more trouble .
what did you say ?
ackers asked johnny .
nothing , johnny also looked around the elevator , trying to look casual .
the two of them made an odd couple , with both johnny and nancy looking everywhere but at the large wall sized screen with a close up on ackers face .
ackers wasnt very good at social interaction .
he looked back and forth between them , trying to figure out what was going on when it should have been obvious .
part of him must have been acting subconsciously , trying to provoke them into responding .
why else would he have projected such a large image of himself ?
how far does this elevator go ?
nancy finally had to ask .
far , agent ackers responded from the screen .
it wouldnt be much of a secret base if anyone could dig a small hole in the ground and find it , now would it ?
ackers turned his attention to johnny .
and i told you not to bring her down here .
its supposed to be a secret base .
secret , as in we dont introduce everyone we meet to it , as in we do our best to keep people from finding out about it , as in we dont let people in !
i dont suppose im being clear ?
very clear , johnny said , biting back remarks that would only lead to having to listen to ackers talk more .
ackers was always very condescending .
using his exceptional brilliance , which unfortunately everyone had to admit he had or they would hear about it for days , ackers tended to put on an air of entitlement .
it made him hard to get along with most of the time .
after what seemed like an eternity of silence , mostly because ackers was scrutinizing them from the view screen , the elevator finally came to a stop with a sudden lurch .
nancy lost her balance and johnny caught her .
they held that pose for a moment before she broke free and johnny started coughing to hide his embarrassment .
i didnt need any help , she said , looking anywhere but at johnny or ackers .
of course not , he agreed , trying to get past the moment as quickly as possible .
the doors of the elevator opened to show agent ackers standing before them .
he was skinny and tall , easily a head above both of them , and he had even more pimples in person than he had on the view screen .
as he spoke , the large image on the wall of the elevator continued to broadcast his image even though he was standing right in front of them .
the effect was more than a little unsettling .
welcome to department x , ackers said .
nancy mouthed the words without saying them out loud .
a dreadful name , i know , ackers confided .
i petitioned to get them to change it .
i tried going for department z , thats the last letter in the alphabet , and i also tried department a , but so far i havent heard back from anyone .
lets face it , if you cant be the first or the last whats the point of being anything in the middle ?
johnny could see that nancy was about to ask a question .
no , dont do it , johnny warned .
do what ?
nancy played innocent .
dont make fun of him , or ask any legitimate questions you might have .
whatever youre thinking , its just not worth it .
nancy punched johnnys arm .
ow , he said , looking at her warily .
that was worth it , nancy smiled .
well , what a fine couple you both make .
i suppose youll end up playing this silly game for a while before realizing you like each other .
and then the games will get even more embarrassing .
its common practice among your species , ackers said all in one breath , implying that he somehow did not belong to the human race .
we dont like each other , nancy stated defiantly .
yeah , was all that johnny could add .
ackers raised an eyebrow at his one word response .
johnny just shrugged , too tired to argue with ackers .
just show us to the debrief area , johnny said with a tired voice .
nancy couldnt help it .
she kept staring at the pimples on ackers face .
he noticed her staring out of the corner of his eye and looked directly at her , at which point she looked away .
he nodded knowingly .
i suppose you dont recognize me .
im the guy from the monitor , ackers pointed unnecessarily at the view screen where they had been looking at him as the elevator traveled down , and which was still showing a large image of his face as he spoke .
i was employing a graphical enhancer to subtly alter my face and hide my identity .
you never know when you might need to remain anonymous and conceal yourself right in the open so that no one recognizes you in the field , he continued .
it wasnt much of a graphical enhancer because ackers looked almost exactly the same as he did on the screen except for a few subtle shifts here and there on his face there wasnt much that was different .
nancy saw the look from johnny and immediately played along .
right , i didnt recognize you .
thats a great trick , she managed to say .
i know , ackers smugly responded .
are you going to stand in the elevator all day ?
we have important things to discuss , ackers chastised them , and then , without waiting for their response , he turned and started walking down the hall .
johnny and nancy had to hurry to keep up .
they walked down an all white hallway , with white walls , ceilings and floors .
it felt like they were in a hospital , except everything around them seemed to be more futuristic and advanced somehow .
even the lights that were in the ceiling didnt look like they were coming from regular light bulbs .
ackers caught nancy studying the ceiling as they walked .
super sensitive , digital interference probes shoot out of the light .
the probes swirl around you , mapping a three dimensional computer representation of you as you walk .
that representation is then stored in our computers and cross referenced whenever we need to find out where you are in the world , ackers said as he walked , never slowing his pace .
nancy could tell that he enjoyed showing off , he liked trying to appear smarter than everyone else , even if it meant putting them down and making people feel bad .
actually , i was wondering why everything is white , she replied , trying to throw ackers off .
its because ackers has no creativity , johnny responded .
i designed this place , ackers jumped in as soon as he could .
i oversaw almost all aspects of its creation and construction .
there was a limited budget and time constraints , and too many variables to meld together an effective color scheme .
in other words , it was nancys turn to interrupt , you didnt have time to paint .
ackers lifted an eyebrow at her .
there are far more important things to worry about than painting , he replied .
as they walked down the white , sterile hallway , the three started to pass rooms on either side with reinforced , plastic windows that allowed you to look in .
there were a variety of training exercises and technology testing sites in the different rooms .
nancy looked in and saw a man standing in front of a large cannon .
the cannon erupted a steady stream of fire that completely engulfed the man .
nancy couldnt see him through the flames , but when the cannon was turned off , the man was looking unharmed and vastly relieved .
we invented sun tan lotion as a byproduct of our fire protection technology , ackers explained .
we released to the public a much milder dose , of course .
our lotion protects everything from hair to skin its the ultimate in fire safety .
ackers gave her a smug smile that suggested he didnt know how to smile very well .
for his extreme intelligence , there seemed to be a lot ackers didnt know about social interactions .
the next room they passed was completely empty .
there was nothing in it at all .
as nancy stopped to watch , water started pouring down like heavy rain from the ceiling .
soon a humanoid shape started to appear in the middle of the rain , with arcs of electricity dancing around it until it finally took shape in the form of a man .
invisibility , ackers said .
still havent found a way to make it waterproof .
the united order has a model that works in a similar way , but their model has such a drain on power resources that they can only use it for a small amount of time .
ackers continued walking , not even waiting to see if they would follow .
where are we going ?
nancy had to ask .
to my office , ackers explained as if it was the most obvious thing in the world .
we need to figure out how to account for the both of you blundering the last mission and allowing the super chip to get away .
we didnt blunder it away , johnny started to argue .
there were more of them than us .
plus , i had to save him , nancy nudged johnny .
ackers gave johnny a hard , long look .
i would have known all about it if i wasnt stuck in radio silence land , he pouted with a completely straight face , something that only ackers could do .
were not going to bring that up again , are we ?
johnny asked .
how can i bring it up again ?
i wasnt finished bringing it up the first time , ackers argued .
i have one big complaint with you , as opposed to a grouping of smaller ones , that just never gets resolved .
and with that ackers marched on ahead , leaving nancy and johnny to watch him walk alone up the hall to his office .
at least he wasnt mad , said johnny .
id hate to see him when hes mad , nancy replied .
yes , you would , johnny agreed .
now im really mad !
ackers exclaimed .
johnny and nancy had just found their way into his small , cramped office .
there were papers everywhere , and several desks to put them on , but there was only one chair .
it was clear that ackers worked alone , possibly because he didnt like working with other people , but more likely because no one wanted to work with him .
the walls were also covered with writing , both on and off the multiple whiteboards around the room .
usually a sentence or equation would start on a white board written in black marker .
but after there was no more space , the writing would continue off the board and onto the wall , sometimes even making its way across the wall and onto a new white board .
it was clear that ackers liked to think .
it was also clear that there was probably no one alive who could follow his line of thought , at least not very well .
i left for less than five minutes and my lunch is completely gone !
ackers whined .
nancy leaned over to whisper in johnnys ear .
who is he talking to ?
its not us , is it ?
she asked .
youll see , was all he would say back .
i left my lunch right here , on this very spot .
it was a sandwich , with ham and cheese .
and now all i see are bread crumbs , ackers continued .
what did we say about eating my lunch when im gone ?
ackers asked .
no one responded .
it looked like the three of them were the only ones in the small room .
bread crumbs !
ackers called out .
nancy jumped , confused that ackers wasnt looking at the bread crumbs when he yelled .
there was a low whine that came from under the other desk .
you know what you did , theres no use hiding , ackers said .
well , theres some use hiding , but ill find you anyway .
a computerized voice responded .
it emphasized both syllables with an exaggerated change of pitch going from really high to really low .
sorry , it said .
naturally youre sorry , but you still have to come out and face what youve done , ackers said .
johnny was quickly losing patience .
what about the super chip ?
thats the reason i came all the way down here .
and the reason i brought her along with me , johnny pointed at nancy , who was currently enthralled with wondering what manner of creature or machine was hiding under the desk .
in a moment , ackers didnt even bother to look at him as he spoke .
i have to address this immediately so that she learns .
nancy looked over at johnny .
johnny just shrugged back helplessly .
come on out now , ackers called , and we can get past this unpleasantness as quickly as possible .
sorry , the robotic sounding high and low pitch came again from under the desk .
out .
now , ackers commanded .
slowly , a hesitant furry face and two paws appeared from under the desk .
it dragged its small body out and then came up to stand before the three of them , looking tentatively up at ackers .
bread crumbs , who started panting as she stood there , was a small poodle .
sorry , came the robotic voice again while bread crumbs continued panting uninterrupted .
as nancy looked closely at bread crumbs , she noticed that there was a small speaker attached to the collar around her neck .
he taught his dog to speak ?
nancy whispered to johnny in bewilderment .
not exactly , johnny whispered back .
ackers smiled , it was one of the rare moments in his life when he did , and patted bread crumbs on the head .
thats a good girl , run along now .
bread crumbs started wagging her tail and then bounced off to find more food .
the only thing she knows how to say is sorry , johnny finished whispering to nancy .
turning to ackers , johnny added , if you know shes going to eat your lunch when you leave , why do you keep leaving it where you know she can get to it ?
ackers was just finishing wiping the crumbs off the table and onto a napkin .
he turned and gave johnny a condescending stare .
how else will she learn ?
he asked with an obvious huff .
but i suppose im partially to blame .
by naming her bread crumbs ive practically doomed her to identifying with and living out the very behavior im trying to eradicate .
it becomes a self fulfilling prophecy for her to try and live up to her name and what she might see as part of her reason for being , her destiny so to speak .
ackers turned to look at them with a stoic face , do you think i should have called her dont eat ?
nancy looked over to johnny to try and figure out if ackers was kidding or really asking them their opinion on such a crazy question .
johnny shrugged .
there really was no way to explain ackers he was just a person you had to experience for yourself to actually believe someone like him existed .
no , thats fine .
bread crumbs is a great name , johnny said to ackers .
yes , i know .
obviously i couldnt name her dont eat how long do you think she would have lived ?
no , dont answer that , ackers turned from the two of them and approached one of his computers .
he typed in a few words and hit enter .
a holographic display of a screen emerged in the air along with a keyboard floating beside it .
ackers started typing on the keyboard and maps began appearing on the screen .
after you two bungled acquiring the super chip , i put my superior intellect into action trying to pinpoint its new location .
we now know where the chip is going to be tested .
its in a united order base hidden within the city in the basement of a building posing as a bank , ackers said in one large breath .
how did you find out where the chip was ?
nancy asked as she studied the screens .
i told you , i used my superior intellect , ackers said with a straight face .
dont ask , he never tells , johnny tried to explain .
of course i never tell .
first theres the matter that you wouldnt be able to fathom my explanations .
then theres the issue of job security if anyone else could do what i could then i would be replaced .
now , moving on , your assignment will be to infiltrate the structure .
as ackers spoke , a three dimensional representation of the building came up on the screen .
he zoomed in and out , cycled through the floors of the building and drew xs and lines through different rooms .
what do you think youre doing ?
a female voice came from the computer as ackers was typing .
an image of a woman wearing a silver body suit appeared beside the display of the bank .
are you taking up my resources trying to show little maps of buildings ?
the woman continued .
ackers sighed and went into a frenzy , typing on the three dimensional keyboard at lightning speed .
the woman frowned .
you dont think you can get rid of me that easily ?
she asked .
suddenly , she disappeared , and the only thing left on the displays was the three dimensional map of the building .
actually , i do , ackers said as he finished entering a string of codes .
what was that ?
nancy asked .
that was ackers girlfriend , ayai , johnny responded .
she is not my girlfriend .
she is a highly advanced form of intelligence that i have been working on .
shes going to be the first true artificial intelligence .
ayai will be capable of her own thought and even able to make creative decisions .
when she is finished , of course .
right now she only appears life like because i programmed her to be a real pain in the ass , ackers added .
ackers studied the holographic display on the wall .
it looks like the best course of action would be to sneak in through the front door theyll never be expecting that .
i have a few new gadgets that ive invented that youll be using .
ackers turned to nancy after he finished looking over the plan .
i imagine that your agency , whoever they might be , will also be supporting this operation with equipment and people ?
nancy looked sideways at johnny , who looked questioningly back .
ive got a few gadgets , some things i made on the side , but we wont be joined by anyone else from my organization , she stammered out .
you mean to tell me you make your own gadgets ?
ackers was appalled .
what kind of second hand outfit do you work for ?
its not second hand .
and yes , i make my own gadgets , so what ?
nancy was getting angry .
she didnt come here to be insulted .
ackers shook his head .
he always had to explain everything to everyone .
the people who invent the gadgets are the top brains in any spy organization , so naturally they never put themselves at risk in the field .
thats for people like him , ackers tilted his head in johnnys direction .
i guess you could say they are more expendable .
hello ?
johnny waved incredulously .
im standing right here , hearing everything you say .
ackers continued on , ignoring him .
and how can you have no one to add to this mission ?
well be adding four top operatives that will be joining you .
the least you could do is lend us a couple of agents in a nice show of cooperation .
nancy threw up her hands in exasperation .
there are no other agents on my team !
johnny and ackers turned to each other in stunned silence .
you work alone ?
johnny managed to finally say .
no , i have a handler , someone who trains me and plans the missions , nancy offered .
ackers narrowed his eyes in suspicion .
who is this handler ?
perhaps i should look them up in my database .
i have a very extensive database its one of my pet projects .
its got everything in it .
you work with me , you get to know nothing about my handler , thats the way it goes , nancy said guardedly .
her handler is probably a criminal .
i see this kind of thing all the time , ackers said .
some poor lost soul trying to make up for the bad things theyve done in their life .
nancy laughed .
my handler is as far away from lost as someone could be .
shes a very capable woman whos taught me all i know .
ackers nodded happily to himself .
we now know shes a woman that narrows it down to only half the population .
ackers shook his head as he switched off his database and computer , if agent seventy seven has nothing to add to this mission except herself , then perhaps we dont need any more of her help .
i think you should thank her for her time and send her on her way .
nancy looked incredulously at ackers , its my turn to be in the room , standing right in front of you while you talk about me .
dont you hate it when he does that ?
johnny asked .
ackers shuffled over to the computer on his desk and powered it down also .
fine , if i am forced to speak directly to you , without anyone to soften my delivery as to the harshness of my message , then i will .
we dont need you , ackers explained .
nancy looked wordlessly at johnny .
johnny sighed .
we brought her all the way here , showed her our base .
she really helped me out .
i think she should be on the team for now , johnny said .
if i am forced to work with even more amateurs , while i constantly put up with their shortcomings , then that is what i will do .
after all , what difference would one more person make ?
ackers asked while he looked at nancy .
gee , thanks .
its really great to be a part of this team , nancy replied .
oh , dont thank me .
wait until you meet the rest of the team , ackers said ominously .
the rest of the team was crazy , nancy concluded instantly .
she was in a training room surrounded by high tech equipment and lethal weapons watching the group try to kill each other for practice .
johnny and ackers were standing beside her , but nancy couldnt help thinking that they were all in danger just for being this close to the group , which was currently sparring with a robotic army and , as far as nancy could tell , each other .
three of the robots attacked big petey , a huge giant of a young man with muscles bulging out of his shirt .
the robots punched and pummeled big petey , but he didnt seem to feel any of the hits .
he actually laughed at one of them .
then the robots tried to all jump on top of him and bring him to the ground .
big petey waited until they were all on top , then he gathered them together in one giant ball , and threw all three of them into the nearby wall .
nancy watched as they landed in a scrap heap , too twisted and scrunched together to do anything else .
red crept up behind big petey .
she was slightly older than him , in her late twenties , and had a fiery temper to match her hair .
she decided this was the best time to attack big petey .
she had various types of explosives strapped to her , and while big petey wasnt watching , she came up behind him and slapped some ball shaped goo onto his back .
red ducked as big petey swung a meaty fist behind him .
you want to play ?
he asked her right before the ball attached to his back exploded .
instead of sending him flying across the room , the goo pulled big petey down toward the ground , anchoring him flat on his back .
i want to play , red confirmed as she looked down on him .
next time watch your back .
big petey tried to get up off the ground but he seemed to be stuck there .
i thought thats what you were for ?
he asked , looking up at her .
not today , sweetie , she laughed as she walked away .
ackers turned to regard nancy , shes an explosives expert .
except her explosives usually do everything but explode in the conventional sense .
she makes them all herself , which should please you immensely , and frustrates me to no end .
shes pretty talented for someone who isnt me , he explained .
nancy turned her attention to the next member of the group .
in the middle of the training area stood a skinny looking guy in his mid to late thirties .
he was holding a pencil and clipboard in his hand , and he had really thick glasses that looked like they threatened to drive his head down to the ground .
his name was vinnie , and he didnt look very formidable or capable of defending himself .
he mumbled to himself as he walked into harms way , with a group of robots attacking him from all sides .
the probability of the next attack , vinnie mumbled to himself as he ducked a punch from one robot , sidestepped a strike from another , and then put himself right in between the two adversaries , should be coming from angles relative to the opportunity of best advantage as it is perceived from a mechanical viewpoint .
both robots pulled out laser pistols and aimed them at vinnie .
hence the most obvious solution , and the only real source of victory vinnie mumbled to himself .
the robots fired just as vinnie ducked .
the laser blasts sailed harmlessly over his head and both robots ended up shooting each other in the chest .
is to duck , vinnie concluded .
the robots stood there for a moment , their circuits sputtering and shorting out , before falling over with a large , heavy clunking sound .
vinnie kept mumbling to himself as he walked over to ackers , nancy and johnny .
he never looked up at them as he walked , he just kept jotting down notes on the clipboard he held in his hand .
that was very impressive , nancy commented .
not really , vinnie answered , still looking at his notes .
it was really more of an inevitability if one knows the proper angles of attack and thought processes of his opponent , there really is only one outcome to ultimately destroy them .
vinnie is a probability expert , psychologist and battlefield strategist , ackers explained to nancy .
and he thinks hes almost as smart as me .
vinnie pushed the glasses back firmly onto his nose and shifted his center of gravity back a bit .
you should see my notes on ackers , vinnie commented .
hes got inferiority complexes on his inferiority complexes .
ackers looked like he was trying to figure out what to say next .
he stammered and opened his mouth , but then shut it again and turned away .
whos the newbie ?
a voice came from behind nancy .
she turned around to see a woman , about eighteen years old , dressed all in black .
her long brown hair was tightly pulled back in a ponytail .
this , ackers finally found his voice , is silence .
and youll find that she is anything but her code name .
she looks green .
hate to be with her on the battlefield , silence continued .
nancy turned to regard her tormentor .
i think youll find that i can hold my own , nancy said .
silence walked up to her , unsheathing two long swords and twirling them through the air in wide circles , interchanging them both from hand to hand .
really ?
i highly doubt that , silence said as she stepped forward , bringing the spinning blades closer to nancy .
why dont you show me ?
dont worry about her .
she likes to talk a lot , but youll like her better when you get to know her , johnny tried to put in .
i dont like her at all so far , nancy remarked .
good , silence responded as she came in closer with her spinning weapons .
the blades were very close to nancy , she could feel the air whoosh by as they passed near her through the spinning arc of the attack pattern .
lightning quick , nancys hand shot out and she intercepted silences wrist , striking it right on a nerve .
her hand went numb from the impact , and silence was forced to let go of one of her swords as nancy kicked the other one to the ground .
the first sword flew out of her hand and sailed through the air .
it went right past ackers head , narrowly missing him and impaling itself in the wall .
for a moment everyone was frozen .
and then silence and nancy exploded into a fury of movement .
they were attacking and counter attacking each other faster than everyone could keep up .
silence would throw a punch , only to have nancy duck in underneath it and come up at her side , sweeping her leg low and tripping silence to the floor .
silence fell down , but not before grabbing nancy and flipping her .
both girls went down , and both started attacking and blocking each other before they could even stand up .
everyone was focused on the fight except for ackers , who turned his head and looked at the sword sticking out of the wall .
did you see how close that came to me ?
he asked , but no one was listening .
nancy threw a series of punches that had silence barely blocking in time .
silence finally grabbed nancys wrist and bent it backward .
nancy yelled out in pain .
silence grabbed the other wrist and bent it back also .
yield , silence demanded .
nancy stopped trying to fight back and free her wrists .
instead , she twisted her body in an arc , tangling silences hands and forcing her arms to cross in an unnatural way .
silence had no choice but to let go .
nancy kicked out at silence , who dodged out of the way and then lunged back at her .
nancy retreated to the wall and waited for silence to strike again .
when she did , nancy dove aside and let silence run into the wall .
but when silence got there the wall didnt stop her , she actually ran up the wall and came to a stop , standing on its side .
ackers was still looking from the blade back to everyone else .
dont tell me no one saw it , because you were all looking .
that sword came very close to my head and i want an apology , he stated .
but again , no one was listening .
nancy was caught off guard .
silence was actually crouching on the side of the wall !
before nancy could really react to what gadget or technique allowed silence to do this , the attack was on again .
silence rained down a series of punches and it was all nancy could do to block or dodge them in time .
whenever nancy tried to attack back , silence would just side step up the wall and out of her reach .
after a series of exchanges where nancy could not gain an advantage , she decided to step back away from the wall and break the engagement .
thats when silence struck the finishing blow .
vaulting herself off the wall and straight at nancy , silence extended her hands forward in tight fists .
nancy brought up her own hands to guard , but thats exactly what silence wanted her to do .
at the last instant , silence opened up her fists and grabbed nancys wrists .
silence used her momentum , and nancys anchoring hands , to flip over nancy and come down behind her .
then she continued the movement by bending and pulling while still holding on .
nancy had no way of stopping herself , and the momentum lifted her off the ground and sent her up into the air .
silence released her grip and everyone watched as nancy flew through the air and crashed into the far wall .
she slid down , landing in a crumpled heap , and lay dazed and out of breath against the wall .
no one moved or said anything .
and then ackers started up again right where he left off , completely oblivious to the tension in the room .
im not kidding , it was really close .
im still waiting for an apology .
johnny looked uneasily at silence , who only smirked back at him in a self confident stare , and then made his way slowly over to nancy .
nancy started using the wall to push herself back up to a standing position .
so , thats the team , nancy said as he approached .
johnny couldnt tell if she was mad or not .
thats the team , johnny said weakly .
i hope you dont mind working with them .
i dont mind at all , nancy said through clenched teeth while she held her side in pain .
it gives me a chance to even up the score .
chapter 4 second chance it was near midnight .
the moon was full , casting some light onto the deserted city street .
there were a few parked cars but none of the surrounding stores were open and there wasnt a person to be seen in any direction .
johnny crouched from his position beside one of the cars , looking at the bank doors with a special thermal eye piece .
nancy crouched down beside him .
looks like the alarm on the door is standard , shouldnt be a problem , he said .
as johnny looked through the special eye piece , he was able to see all the electrical wiring through the walls and door of the bank .
he could even see the connecting pieces where the electrical circuit was able to monitor the status of the door .
of course it shouldnt be a problem , ackers voice came loud and clear over the ear pieces both johnny and nancy were wearing .
our technology is years ahead of anything youll find in the common world .
this is supposed to be a front for the united order , so the technology will be quite a bit more advanced , johnny said .
there was a moment of silence on the other end .
right , i forgot about that , ackers admitted .
silence dropped down out of a tree beside nancy , giving her a smile .
boo , she said , as she skipped on ahead to monitor the area .
johnny shrugged at nancy .
if she picks on you it means she likes you .
she bugged me for a year before she finally warmed up to me , johnny tried to explain .
im used to working alone , was all nancy would say , keeping a stoic expression .
johnny nodded , and finally put down the eye piece .
he could tell that nancys ego was still bruised from their fight earlier .
still , shes not that bad .
if you get red mad , on the other hand , i would leave the country .
her good moods are worse than most peoples temper , johnny said .
dont talk about me behind my back .
johnny jumped as he saw red leading vinnie toward the doors .
her hair seemed like it was tied back even tighter than normal , making johnny wonder if the stress on her scalp contributed to her high tension .
she had two small square grenades in each hand and checked both sides of the street as she walked .
what do those do ?
johnny asked , indicating the objects she was holding .
they go bang .
i figured they did that , im just worried about what type of bang they make , johnny clarified .
guess well all find out , if were lucky , red smiled back with an eerie looking sparkle in her eyes .
she walked out into the middle of the street , vinnie following right behind .
together the two walked up to the doors of the closed bank .
vinnie bent down on one knee and started examining the door .
he pulled out a thin glove from his pocket and put it on his hand , pressing the glove against the door and listening .
johnny rose from his spot behind the car and indicated that nancy should follow .
i guess the stealth part of this operation is over , nancy said .
she looked around as they walked toward the front door .
if red and silence arent worried , it means that the coast is clear for now .
but the stealth part will be officially over when big petey starts breaking things , johnny answered .
they walked up to vinnie and stopped , watching him listening to the glove he had pressed against the door .
vinnie was sliding the glove around the door in small circular motions , every now and then he would tap one of the fingers of the glove against the door in alternating rhythms .
what is he doing ?
nancy asked .
listening , vinnie answered before johnny could .
i can hear what youd call the heart beat of the electricity .
using this glove i can deaden certain electrical pathways , and trace superficial surface currents for it to follow .
the superficial currents wont last more than a minute , but it will be enough time for us to bypass the alarm and slip inside .
vinnie tapped a few more times .
big petey walked up to the group while they were all watching vinnie intently .
we done yet ?
he almost bellowed at the group .
everyone jumped with a start .
red flashed him an angry look .
were supposed to be doing this the quiet way , she added with a glare .
i dont know how to do things quiet , big petey responded .
wheres silence ?
shes around somewhere .
shes always hiding when explosions are ready to go off , red answered with a sarcastic look around her .
okay , its ready , vinnie declared as he stepped away from the door .
about time , big petey said .
he grabbed the handle of each door .
everyone took a step away from him .
i could just pick the lock , nancy offered .
big petey strained all his muscles and then pulled .
both doors were ripped off their hinges as they came apart from the building .
big petey threw them down to the ground with a yell .
thats no fun , he replied as he peered into the building .
red walked forward , still holding her square grenades .
hurry up , theres people inside and we still have a chip to find , she said angrily as she led the way .
they all walked inside , nancy bringing up the rear of the group and still looking for any traces of silence .
as soon as they were in the bank it was obvious that they werent alone .
johnny held up his hand for everyone to stop .
he brought out his eye piece and looked through it .
he had to fiddle with the edges and shift the settings around slightly to detect body heat .
would you hurry up !
ackers insisted through the ear piece .
knowing our luck they heard the door open and are all making a hasty retreat .
johnny could detect heat signatures coming through the floor .
theyre all in the basement , he declared as he looked down at the ground through his technological gadget .
there are two sets of stairs and an elevator leading down , vinnie said beside johnny as he consulted a schematic of the building .
i suggest we split up .
ill wait up here , of course , as mission specialist .
im the mission specialist !
ackers screamed from out of everyones ear piece .
yes , thank you for reminding us , johnny said as he held his ear in pain .
alright then , everyone split up and converge on the chip , ackers continued , almost repeating exactly what vinnie had just said .
johnny and nancy made their way to one set of stairs , big petey and red walked toward the other .
i guess ill guard the elevator .
probably not the best time in the world to be using elevators anyway , vinnie said as he glanced at his departing teammates .
nancy , make sure you stay behind me .
we dont know what to expect down there , johnny said as he held out his hand protectively while peering into the darkness of the descending stairs .
seventy seven , nancy replied .
johnny turned to look at her .
what ?
when were on a mission , my name is seventy seven , she replied with a mild tone of annoyance .
she shouldered past him and started to creep down the stairs .
johnny shook his head and followed after her .
on the opposite end of the building , big petey and red were going down the other flight of stairs .
what do those do , anyway ?
big petey asked nervously as he looked at the four square grenades that red was still holding .
have you ever known me to tell and not show ?
she asked .
big petey shook his head .
i spent an extra amount of time making these .
it should be a neat surprise for everyone when they go off , she smiled wickedly .
i just want to know .
every time you throw one of your homemade grenades , something different happens .
should i stay near you when you throw them ?
should i run away from where you throw them , or should i run toward where you throw them ?
big petey was tripping over his words trying to get an answer out of red .
youre not nervous , are you ?
she asked .
big petey quickly shook his head , and then realized there was no point in hiding it .
he started nodding quickly .
big petey is nervous of a little fireworks ?
she asked playfully .
people i can handle , you can pick them up , throw them , smash them .
but the things you make scare me to death , he admitted .
good , she said as they walked down into the depths of the building .
the glow from the monitor illuminated scars face , making him look even more menacing and threatening than normal .
tell me again what it is you are doing , he said as he stood with arms crossed , studying the strings of numbers flashing down the screen in rapid procession .
sitting in a chair beside him , a nervous bald man was typing furiously on a keyboard , pausing now and then to wipe the sweat from his forehead .
he was trying to keep it from running down into his eyes and fogging up his large glasses , and he was failing miserably .
around them were rows and rows of unused computers .
multiple guards were posted throughout the basement all of them had laser rifles .
i dont like to wait , scar said , leaning over the shoulder of the nervous computer operator who everyone in the united order just referred to as the operator .
his rampant nervousness was nothing that the guards and scar had not seen before .
he was always nervous when he was using computers , even though he was one of the best hackers and security protection experts in the world .
the operator had mentioned that he got nervous because of a traumatic experience he had as a child when he claimed a computer had tried to kill him by electrocuting him .
ever since that moment he was always worried whenever he touched a keyboard , screen or holographic work station .
yes , well , im , i mean , it is currently hacking into multiple accounts all over the world , the operator said as his fingers danced nervously across the keyboard .
the computer he was using was connected to a transparent plastic box beside him .
the box was filled with computer components and wires .
the super chip rested on the top of the box , plugged in and boosting the technological power that the operator was using .
we are working with the super chip to convince the banks computers to take ten dollars from five million different accounts and place it in our own , anonymous offshore account .
its a small step for the chips abilities , but we are testing out the possibilities slowly because the operator jumped back from the computer with a sudden yelp .
did you feel that ?
he asked with fright as he stared at the keyboard .
i thought i felt something .
im sure it was just in your mind , scar said impatiently .
yes , youre probably right , the operator said as he cautiously poked the keyboard and then jumped back quickly .
when he didnt feel a shock , he tested it again , touching the keyboard for a longer amount of time before quickly pulling his hand back again .
we are on a deadline , scar emphasized the word dead , making sure the operator understood the hidden meaning .
reluctantly , the operator started typing on the keyboard .
as nervous as the computer made him , scar scared him even more .
between the computer in front of him and scar behind , the operator started sweating worse than before .
his glasses began fogging up and he had to wipe them several times so he could see .
we are telling the bank accounts that the ten dollars we are taking from them is due to a maintenance charge , the operator finally finished explaining .
scar peered intently at the gibberish on the monitor , trying to make sense of the words and numbers appearing and disappearing in rapid procession .
and is it working ?
scar asked .
normally this kind of procedure would take hours of time and then even more hours to make the hack harder to trace , the operator explained .
but with the super chip plugged in , i am able to circumvent all security in a matter of seconds .
he beamed with pride as if it were him that was getting through the security instead of the super chip .
its working exactly as its supposed to .
may i ask who invented it ?
the operator asked as he kept his attention focused on the screen .
no you may not , a womans voice responded .
a sword appeared from behind scar , its edge held close across his neck .
the operator turned around to see silence standing behind them .
oh my , was all he could say .
all the guards rushed forward with their laser rifles up and ready to fire , but they had no clear shot as silence made sure to keep herself hidden behind scar while only allowing her sword arm to be visible as a target .
silence applied some pressure with her sword on scars neck .
step back , scar managed to say .
smart , silence smiled as she saw the guards look to each other , uncertain as to what to do .
now !
scar barked as a trickle of blood ran down his neck .
the guards did as they were told .
scar tried to turn his head to look back at silence .
eyes front , dont move a muscle , she warned him .
scar was not used to being told what to do , especially not by the enemy .
how did you get in here ?
he asked , doing his best to keep the anger and frustration out of his voice .
youre really hating this , arent you ?
silence teased .
she loved to flaunt her skill and never missed an opportunity to do it .
big , strong guy like you being shown up by little , old me ?
she purred in his ear .
the operator fidgeted , wiping away at the sweat on his forehead to keep it out of his eyes .
im not going to tell you how i got in here .
it would ruin the fun for next time , silence mocked .
the guards still looked back and forth at one another , trying to somehow figure out what they all thought should be done .
since no one thought of anything , they just kept looking back and forth dumbly at each other .
since we know you can all follow instructions , im going to give you a few more .
take the chip out of that box , silence ordered .
the operator looked to scar helplessly .
scar wasnt any help he kept his look stoic and unreadable .
do it , i havent got all day , silence added .
the operator reached out a trembling , sweat soaked hand and unplugged the chip from the plastic box .
ive got it , he said needlessly as he held it up for everyone to see .
pass it slowly to me , silence said .
the operator held out the super chip for silence to take .
scar , the sword still at his throat , decided he had had enough .
he couldnt let this woman get the chip that the united order had worked and sacrificed so much for .
with his hands at his side , he slowly reached down and unclipped his laser gun .
silence was directly behind him so she couldnt see what he was doing .
she held out her hand for the chip .
the operator reached out even further to give it to her .
scar slowly raised his gun and pointed it above his shoulder , aiming it roughly at her face .
silence looked down and saw the gun just at the last moment .
she bent low as scar fired and the shot passed harmlessly over her head .
before she could react any further , scar spun free of her sword and kicked out , catching silence in the stomach and sending her flying backward .
guard the chip , scar yelled .
the operator pulled the chip back toward himself and held it close , not sure what he was going to do to effectively guard it .
the united order soldiers sprang into action , bringing up their laser rifles and aiming them at silence .
scar inadvertently blocked their aim as he advanced on her with his gun .
recovering quickly from the attack , silence kicked the gun out of his hand .
but it wasnt enough .
scar and all the guards in the room had silence trapped against the wall .
there was nowhere for her to go .
looks like a party !
big petey hollered as he came out of the stairwell and charged the guards .
before they could react , big petey had barreled into the group , sending bodies flying in all directions as he wrestled with all of them at the same time .
he was too close , and they were scrambling all over each other , which helped make their laser rifles practically useless against big petey .
this was the type of fight he lived for .
red stepped into the basement , still clutching her four square grenades , and scanned the room , taking stock of everything that was going on .
from the opposite end of the basement , johnny and nancy also entered the room .
looks like we finally found silence , johnny said .
looks like your friends could use some help , nancy responded as she watched big petey get surrounded by all the guards .
johnny dodged aside as a thrown guard crashed into the wall beside him .
im not so sure about that , johnny remarked as he looked down at the unconscious guard .
this is play time for me !
big petey yelled as he grabbed another guard and started spinning him over his head before throwing him into another group and knocking them all down .
the operator was looking at all the chaos around him with wide eyes .
he was so scared and dumbfounded he even forgot to sweat for a while .
oh my , he said as he watched it all while holding the super chip up in his hand for anyone to notice .
scar advanced on silence who was watching him in a ready fighting stance .
im going to make you pay for your interference , scar said .
silence laughed at him , and indicated that he was welcome to try with a gesture of her hand .
in truth , she was a little worried .
her attack hadnt gone as she had expected , and she hadnt thought that scar was nearly as strong as he was .
but the last thing she was going to do was let anyone see her doubt .
scar charged and silence jumped to the side , kicking out at his ankle as she went .
he fell to one knee , but not before he grabbed a hold of her leg .
he swung with all his might and threw her at the wall .
silence landed on the wall and stuck to it , orientating herself and getting ready to pounce .
scar nodded at her agility and remarkable skill .
impressive , he admitted .
but it will not save you .
from across the room , big petey was running out of guards to attack .
the few remaining people around him that could still stand had become wary of charging at him .
one of them still had his laser rifle .
he aimed at big petey and then fell to the ground from a karate chop from red .
about time you showed up , big petey yelled as he finished fighting with another two guards .
youre welcome .
now quit complaining , red responded with a snarl .
even at the best of times she seemed to always be in a bad temper .
it was what had led her to study the field of explosives with such passion and tireless commitment .
causing chaos in unexpected ways was the only thing that cheered her up .
will you tell me what your new toys will do now ?
big petey asked , indicating the four square grenades that red still hadnt used yet .
first we get the chip , and then these will help us get away , she said .
get away from what ?
ive handled all there is to handle right here , big petey replied with a laugh .
red pointed over his shoulder and big petey turned to see a new host of soldiers enter the room from the elevator .
oh , them , was all he could say .
the soldiers instantly swarmed him and attacked at the same time .
alright , big petey admitted as he ducked , weaved , and dodged through the army of soldiers , i think i could use some help now .
back upstairs , vinnie held a portable computer which was projecting a holographic keyboard and screen .
the only part of the computer that was physical was the small , rectangular case he held up in his left hand .
vinnies fingers from his right hand danced across the holographic keyboard as he tried to pull up any communication from his team .
whats happening ?
can any of you read me ?
vinnie asked as he looked at displays of the banks basement floor .
its terrible when they ignore you , isnt it ?
ackers voice came through the earpiece vinnie was wearing .
ive been trying to get used to it for over forty years .
you havent even been alive for forty years , vinnie retorted as he shook his head in frustration .
he couldnt reach anyone .
true , but with all the stress that theyve caused me , i feel like im over a hundred .
you really should leave this job to me , some people just arent good at overseeing missions .
do you know whats going on ?
vinnie asked , biting back several cruel responses that he was just dying to say .
no , ackers had to admit .
but i would have had a much easier job of it if you hadnt opted to change the mission parameters by staying upstairs to monitor the team that i was already monitoring .
vinnie tried to slam his hand on the holographic keyboard , but it just went right through .
what would you have done differently ?
vinnie challenged him .
lots , ackers replied .
really ?
vinnie shot back .
if youre worried about keeping your mission specialist job , i just want to assure you that you should be , even though there is no point in worrying about it .
im not worried , not in the slightest , ackers shot back with a slight tremble in his voice .
good , because theres no point in worrying about whats inevitable , vinnie concluded .
vinnie smiled to himself at the silence that greeted him on the other end , he loved putting ackers in his place .
the fact was that he was too smart to have to deal with people like ackers , people who thought they were great in their own little worlds , but couldnt really do anything useful .
its not inevitable , you arent managing anything at all from where im sitting , ackers finally thought of something to say .
watch and learn , my hopeless friend .
it was time to show ackers who he was dealing with .
ill show you what a real mission specialist does !
a real mission specialist is not someone whos too scared to even go out on a mission , vinnie said .
im not too scared to go out on missions , ackers vainly tried to defend himself .
entering a series of commands , vinnie effectively cut off ackers from all further communication .
he then pushed a button on his box and the computers screen and keyboard disappeared .
he slipped the computer into his pocket and headed for the stairs leading into the basement .
vinnie was going to move up in the world , it was only a matter of time .
back downstairs , scar was watching silence with a measure of disgust .
she continued to cling to the wall , her feet and one hand used to hold her up , she still had her other sword strapped to her back , waiting for the opportunity to use it but feeling helpless without both weapons in her possession .
scar couldnt tell how she was able to stick to the wall like that , but it mattered little .
he advanced on her and threw out a punch .
silence blocked the punch and skipped up the wall a bit higher before jumping off it and hurling herself through the air at him .
but scar was incredibly strong , far stronger than any normal person should be .
he actually caught her in the air , held her up for a moment , and then threw her to the ground at his feet .
the wind was knocked out of silence .
she tried to roll back up to a standing position , but he kicked her before she could move .
this is why i hate facing people as weak as you , scar told her as he extended his hand and picked up his gun .
theres no challenge in it .
he raised the gun at silence .
all she could do was look back helplessly .
a flash of steel blurred through her line of sight , and then half of scars gun fell uselessly to the floor , leaving him holding a stump where his gun used to be .
he looked down at it in amazement , and then up at nancy .
nancy was standing protectively in front of silence , using silences own dropped sword to save her life .
i cant believe how sharp you keep this thing , nancy commented as she kept her eyes locked on scar .
scar snarled and charged , nancy swung the sword and nicked his face on the other side of his original scar .
silence got to her feet and stood behind nancy .
dont think that this changes anything between us .
i still strongly dislike you , silence commented .
glad to hear it , nancy said as the two women backed away from the seething scar .
now lets go help them get that chip and get out of here .
the operator was still holding the chip up in the air .
his head was turned away from it as he was watching scar fight nancy and silence .
thank you .
the operator turned around to find that johnny had taken the super chip right out of his hand .
that isnt yours , the operator managed to say .
it isnt yours either , johnny replied .
for someone as smart as the operator was supposed to be , johnnys simple comment had completely stumped him .
he stammered and stuttered , trying to think of what to say .
in the end he just ended up shrugging and wiping away the sweat from his eyes .
hes got it !
red yelled from across the room .
does this mean we have to stop ?
big petey shouted back as he wrestled with numerous guards .
he currently had one guard clamped to his back , and two more trying to hold his legs to the ground .
big petey kicked them off and then reached back over his shoulder to lift the guard off his back and launch him through the air .
red brought up one of her four square grenades .
it means its time to leave , and ive got the perfect diversion .
seeing the grenades , big petey got visibly nervous .
you never knew what one of reds grenades was going to do until it was too late , and then you didnt want to know .
is it going to hurt ?
big petey asked as he tossed another guard aside .
red smiled it was a frightening sight .
not much .
and it will only last long enough to disorientate everyone and allow us to get away , she said with a glint in her eye .
vinnie entered the basement from the other side of the room .
he saw johnny with the chip , and red ready with one of her grenades , the remaining three nestled tightly in her other arm .
vinnie pulled out a small remote controlled device .
i think its going to take all four of them , he said to himself as he pointed the device at red while walking quickly toward johnny and the chip .
nancy and silence were still backing away from scar .
it didnt help that he kept cutting off any potential escape route he was always just at arms length away .
silence had both swords in her hands , and was threatening him with small swipes through the air .
if you want to extend that scar on your face , keep getting closer , she told him .
red brought up her grenade , ready to activate it .
vinnie was almost at johnny now , who had his attention on red and her dangerous grenade .
vinnie pointed the remote controlled device at her grenades and pressed a button .
red let out a gasp as all four square grenades started blinking and beeping at the same time .
i thought you were only going to use one of them !
big petey yelled in alarm .
i was , i dont know what just happened !
she exclaimed .
whats going to happen now ?
big petey asked with wide eyes as red continued to hold all four of the beeping and flashing square grenades .
get down !
red yelled as she threw the grenades as far away from her as possible .
the four square objects sailed through the air in all directions .
everyone in the basement now had their eyes on them , watching in frozen anticipation for what would happen when they landed .
oh my , the operator said as he saw one of the grenades heading straight for him .
johnny grabbed the operator and pulled him out of his seat , throwing him to the floor and using his own body to shield him .
the grenades all landed on the floor , gave out a harsh , high pitched sound , and then a white light shot out in all directions .
for a moment , nobody moved .
big petey found that he was cowering on the ground with his hands over his head .
he peeked out and saw that everything was okay .
he got back to his feet and looked around .
that wasnt so bad , he said .
he looked over to see that red still looked extremely worried .
everything started rising off the floor at the same time , desks , people , weapons , garbage , it all flew up into the air .
big petey gave a little yell as he tried to grab onto a column beside him as he lifted up off the ground .
johnny , who was still protecting the operator , realized he was floating off the ground and heading toward the ceiling at an accelerating rate .
he landed on the ceiling with a groan , just before the operator landed on top of him and knocked the wind out of his lungs .
he let go of the chip , which now also lay on the ceiling along with everything and everyone else .
what did you do ?
big petey hollered as he tried to crawl around on the ceiling and look up , or down , at the floor .
i reversed gravity , red exclaimed unnecessarily as she punched out a nearby guard .
nearby , scar , nancy and silence still watched each other warily , their standoff a bit lessened now that they were trying to get used to standing on the ceiling and having the floor above them .
vinnie was being careful to walk quickly with bent knees in a hunkered down position .
he was ready for the gravity shift , and was making his way with single minded purpose toward the chip that had fallen free of johnnys grasp .
johnny pushed the operator off of him .
thank you , the operator said meekly .
that fall would have hurt a lot more if you werent there to soften the impact .
shut up , johnny said hoarsely as he just started to get air back into his lungs .
guards made their way to johnnys location , trying to get used to their new predicament .
they were after the chip .
vinnie was almost there too .
nancy swooped in and kicked the nearest guard who bent down to get the chip .
the guard stumbled forward into several others , sending them all falling back up to the ceiling .
you dropped this , she said as she held up the chip for johnny to see .
im not sure its possible to drop anything right now , johnny commented as he stood on shaking legs .
vinnie cursed , he had been so close to getting the super chip for himself .
he pulled out a small black boomerang and got closer to the two of them .
we better get out of here , nancy said as the guards continued their fight with big petey and the rest of the team .
johnny was about to agree when he noticed the three guards that stood between them and the nearest exit .
johnny pulled out his yo yo device , nancy pulled out a rubber ball .
just like old times , she said , remembering the gadgets they used when they met on their first mission only days earlier .
vinnie saw what was going to happen he knew what both gadgets did .
he had to use his black boomerang now or risk letting johnny , nancy and the super chip get away .
vinnie couldnt let that happen .
the chip was going to be his !
johnny unraveled the yo yo , nancy pulled her arm back , ready to throw .
vinnie readied his black boomerang .
have you finished the mission yet ?
ackers voice came through in thunderous vibrations through vinnies ear piece .
he had been tired of being ignored , so ackers had found a way to cut through the volume controls and punish vinnie for treating him with so little respect .
vinnie stifled a yell and grabbed his ear in pain , dropping the unused boomerang .
johnny and nancy threw their yo yo and rubber ball at the same time .
the yo yo string elongated and caught the guards and vinnie , who was grabbing his ear in pain behind them , and wrapped them all up .
then nancys rubber ball exploded , letting out the electric net that covered the trapped group and gave them all little jolts of electricity .
johnny and nancy never saw vinnie behind the guards , so they didnt pause at all to check up on him .
they grabbed each others hands and dashed for the exit .
everyone in the mission knew that the number one priority was to get the super chip and get out of there .
the team had agreed beforehand that if anyone got it they had to escape the area immediately .
johnny and nancy both looked down and realized they were holding hands .
they instantly let go and continued running .
before they had time to acknowledge the awkwardness of the situation , two guards managed to get to their feet before them .
johnny dodged to the left , sidestepping a punch and returning one of his own .
nancy leaped straight up , or what was now down , at the guard .
the guard followed her jump and ended up catching sight of the ground below , getting disorientated all over again .
nancy landed on him with a kick , sending him sprawling and unconscious to join the guard that johnny took down .
both nancy and johnny took a moment to admire their speed and effectiveness .
not bad , b .
fast , nancy commented .
you did alright yourself , seventy seven , johnny returned .
more guards made their way toward them , and johnny could see that the department x team was winning the battle against what was left of the united order guards .
come on , we better get out of here , johnny said as both he and nancy made their way to the stairwell .
they stopped at the edge and peered out .
where do you think the gravity returns to normal ?
nancy asked hesitantly .
i dont know , but we cant go back and ask red , johnny said .
just be careful as you walk , and get ready to fall back down to the ground .
the two of them walked up the slanted ceiling of the stairwell , keeping their eyes on the dangerously , jagged steps above them .
they left the chaos behind as they moved quickly but cautiously up to the ground floor .
after a while they could finally see the door ahead of and above them .
were going to have to jump when we get to the door , the handle is too far above us , johnny commented as they neared the door .
before they had a chance to align themselves to jump for the door handle , they ended up leaving the grenades area of gravity influence .
they fell down to the real floor , crashing on the ground right beside the door .
nancy landed on johnny , so he ended up taking the worst of the fall for the second time that day .
they lay together on the ground for a moment , arms and legs intertwined in an undecipherable mix .
are you alright ?
johnny asked , wincing in pain .
their faces were only inches apart and they slowly began to realize how interlocked they both were .
they looked at each other , embarrassed , not knowing what to do , then quickly got up and untangled themselves .
yeah , fine , nancy coughed in embarrassment .
good , johnny said as he rotated his arm , trying to work the pain out of his limbs .
we better get out of here , nancy commented .
they were doing their best not to make eye contact as they spoke , each of them not knowing what to make of the weird butterflies in their stomachs .
right , yeah , lets get out of here .
good idea , johnny said .
he reached over and turned the doorknob , and the two of them dashed out into the lobby of the bank .
they ran toward the entrance and over the broken doors that big petey had ripped off their hinges .
outside the sun was coming up , birds started their annoying early morning chirps , annoying if you had been up the entire night before and didnt get any sleep .
johnny and nancy kept running , trying to put more distance between themselves and the united order , doing everything they could to keep the chip safe .
after running down several blocks , they came to a stop and tried to catch their breath .
we did it , nancy said , reaching into her pocket to find the chip .
yes , we did , johnny said , bringing out the chip from his own pocket .
when did you get that ?
she asked .
you must have dropped it while the gravity was shifting back to normal , johnny commented , putting the chip back in his pocket .
nancy eyed the chip then eyed johnny .
we got it , thats all that matters , she said .
johnny caught the look , but dismissed it .
nancy had agreed to let department x research and figure out how the chip was able to do everything it did when other computerchips couldnt hope to keep up .
johnny still didnt know who she worked for , or what the name of her own organization was , but he had concluded that it didnt really matter .
she was one of the good guys , and that meant johnny could trust her .
what now ?
nancy asked , breaking johnny out of his thoughts .
johnny brought up his hand to the earpiece , it must have broken during the fight because he couldnt hear ackers whining and yelling at him .
i think my earpiece broke , ackers is going to kill me , johnny said as he looked at the small device .
he seems to do most of his damage by talking , so at least youre safe for the time being , nancy laughed .
they started walking down the street , johnny looked at his watch .
were going to be late for school , johnny said .
dont you think this is more important ?
nancy asked .
of course it is , but im in big trouble , thanks to you getting the cafeteria fight blamed on me .
i have to be on time and show up for detention or theyre going to suspend me .
nancys mouth dropped open .
thats a little severe , even for our principal , she commented .
johnny shook his head in frustration , recalling the events in the principals office .
everything had been going alright , he was even going to get away with a light slap on the wrist , but then ms. sniders had come in .
she told the principal how disruptive johnny was in class , and how he kept the other kids from learning with his practical jokes .
none of it was true , and johnny couldnt figure out why she was lying .
maybe ms. sniders believed what she was saying ?
maybe in her eyes johnny really was that bad .
he had tried to go over his experiences in her class to find out what had gotten her so mad , but he was never able to pinpoint what he did that was so disruptive .
severe or not , i have to be on time , johnny said .
what are we going to do about the chip ?
nancy asked .
they kept walking down the street .
none of the nearby stores were open yet and there was a soft morning mist that added to the eerie calm that contrasted strongly with all the fighting and explosions they had just left behind .
ill hide it at my house and then pick it up after school , johnny concluded after some thought .
nancy shook her head .
thats too dangerous !
she said .
no one knows my real identity , so theres no reason to think anyone will look for it there , he reasoned .
nancy thought he was taking an awfully dangerous risk .
the super chip was one of the most deadly and powerful items in the world , it was not something that was just left hiding at home until you could get to it .
still , she had her reasons for wanting him to separate from it , so nancy was going to do her best to play along .
ackers isnt going to be happy about that , nancy said .
ackers is never happy about anything .
but i dont have a choice .
i cant deliver it now and be late , i might be suspended .
then my dad would just kill me .
nancy laughed .
it wasnt a mean laugh it was a playful and inviting one .
what ?
he demanded .
johnny b .
fast , the great super spy , is afraid of his dad , she teased .
im not afraid of him , he shot her a nasty look .
yes you are , she pressed .
they turned left at the next street , walking onto the sidewalk , and johnny kicked at a stray pebble .
like i said before , my dad doesnt know what i do .
i kind of fell into the spy business by accident when i met ackers , johnny explained .
my mom passed away two years ago .
it was a hard time for both of us and we had to rely on each other a lot .
he wouldnt handle it very well if i got suspended .
i think he would blame himself for not doing a good enough job .
johnny looked at the ground as he talked , avoiding looking anywhere near nancy .
she felt bad instantly .
she only meant to lightly tease him , not hurt him by bringing up painful memories .
nancy had too many of those in her own life .
i guess you wouldnt know anything about that kind of stuff since you were adopted , johnny said , a little more angrily than he meant to .
i never knew my parents because they both passed away when i was young , nancy said in a quiet voice .
johnny stopped walking .
he didnt remember how their conversation had gotten so serious and sad .
this was supposed to be a happy time .
they had just retrieved the super chip from the united order , they should be celebrating !
she saw that he was struggling with what he should say next , its okay , you didnt know , nancy said .
johnny still felt bad .
he should have known , somehow , and he really didnt know how he should have known .
she deserved that much .
all he could do was nod .
there was a new understanding between them .
they walked on in silence , a good silence , feeling closer to each other than ever before .
chapter 5 responsibilities johnny rushed into his room , shoving the door closed behind him .
he ran over and quickly opened his closet , revealing piles of clothes heaped on top of each other in the middle of the floor .
johnny started to dig a hole through his clothes , placing the super chip in the center of the hole .
he then pushed everything back on top of it , burying the chip under a mountain of dirty clothes .
i just hope ill be able to find it after , he said to himself as he closed the closet door .
he glanced at his watch he had to be quick to get to school in time .
he walked over to the old computer on his desk and typed in the password .
the panels in the ceiling and wall slid back and the holographic keyboard display materialized in the middle of the room .
he entered some commands on the holographic keyboard and then waited a moment while ackers flustered face appears .
where have you been ?
ackers demanded as soon as the auditory connection was complete .
right where youve been expecting me to be getting the super chip , johnny responded in a matter of fact tone of voice .
ackers wrung his hands in the air in frustration , looking very silly and clichd .
i know that !
where have you been since ?
why arent you here ?
wheres the super chip ?
what happened to seventy seven ?
ackers practically tripped over himself trying to get all his questions out in one breath .
johnny paused a moment , not sure which question to answer first .
i dont know , he said at last as he took off his spy outfit and got changed into school clothes .
you dont know ?
how can you not know ?
which part dont you know ?
ackers demanded .
johnny pulled a shirt on over his head and sighed when he could see ackers angry face again .
i didnt know which question to answer first , johnny clarified .
ackers looked like his head was going to explode .
just tell me you have the super chip !
he demanded .
i do , johnny assured him .
ackers let all the breath out of his lungs in one giant sigh .
he reached over and grabbed a glass of water , drinking it all down in one large gulp and letting half of it spill out and run down his shirt .
he slammed the glass down and wiped the remaining water off his chin .
now you have to get back to base , ackers noticed that johnny wasnt paying attention he was still getting ready to go to school .
this is important , ackers yelled at the top of his voice .
johnny quickly darted over to his holographic keyboard and turned down the volume .
would you be quiet , my dad could hear you !
johnny said angrily .
i dont care about your dad !
this chip is more important than your life and all the things that happen in it .
you have a duty to department x above all other duties !
ackers said in a much quieter voice .
everything all right up there ?
henry called from downstairs .
fine dad , just getting ready for school , johnny called back , while giving ackers an i told you so look .
ackers just shrugged in response .
johnny got his school backpack from under his bed and opened it up to make sure there were some books in it .
everything looked right , some of the textbooks even looked familiar .
are you listening to me ?
ackers said , breaking johnny out of his focus .
no , johnny said as he zipped up his backpack .
what else is new ?
ackers replied in frustration .
johnny slung the backpack on his shoulder and walked over to the three dimensional keyboard display , typing in some commands and getting ready to shut down .
i contacted you to let you know what happened with the mission , and to tell you that you dont have to worry .
the chip is safe and i will get it to you at the end of the day , johnny explained .
i need the chip now !
ackers pressed .
johnny sighed .
ackers was being more annoying than usual .
you cant have it now , i already told you , johnny explained for the millionth time .
this is a life and death matter !
how can you be so flippant and causal about this ?
im going to have to come over and get it , ackers threatened .
fine , whatever , johnny said as he shut down the connection .
he knew that ackers never left the base , and the chances of him actually coming to johnnys house were the same as the chances of the united order knowing that johnny clunker was johnny b .
fast .
johnny bounced down the stairs of his house two at a time , landing on the main floor with a loud thump that took him into a slide toward the kitchen .
hey dad , he called as he dropped his backpack onto the floor and started digging around in the fridge for something to eat .
henry was lost in a stack of papers , still trying to find the missing reports that he had failed to turn in to mr. underling .
there was a cold , untouched piece of toast on the table beside him .
henry looked up to his right where johnny had just come in , and then turned to look to the left as johnny walked back around to the other side again .
henry looked to the right one more time as johnny sat down at the table with some cereal and a jug of milk .
finally managing to catch a glimpse of his son , henry gave him a warm smile .
hi son .
did you have a good nights rest ?
johnny froze in the act of pouring the milk onto his cereal .
he looked up to see that his dads attention was back on the stack of papers .
for a moment johnny thought that his dad had found out that johnny was out all night .
looking back down , johnny saw that he was about to overfill his cereal with the milk .
he was able to stop pouring just before the milk spilled out of the bowl .
yeah , im all ready for school .
henry was holding up two different pieces of paper and trying to look at both of them at the same time .
that doesnt seem right , henry said as he crossed his eyes comparing the two texts .
johnny glanced up again with a spoonful of cereal in his mouth .
henry finally uncrossed his eyes and put the papers back down on the kitchen table , inadvertently placing one of the papers right onto his toast .
not again , henry said as he lifted up the paper and got a napkin , trying in vain to wipe the jam off the paper and succeeding only in smearing it around even more .
frustrated , henry put the paper down on top of another piece of toast and got the jam on that one too , although he didnt notice it yet .
rough time at work ?
johnny asked .
henry let out a long held breath .
i just dont seem to fit in well there with my other colleagues .
i try hard , but i cant get used to organizing everything on the computers .
you know , maybe one day you could show me some pointers on that machine you have upstairs , henry said .
henry was referring to the really old computer johnny had in his room .
he didnt know his son had a state of the art holographic computer with processors faster than anything anyone could buy from a store .
of course , even that paled in comparison to the speed of the super chip .
sure dad , well see what we can do , johnny said .
his dad gave him a smile .
everything going well with math class so far ?
his dad asked .
it was english class .
too early to tell , but ill let you know how i do on any upcoming tests or assignments , johnny replied .
henry cleared his throat , getting serious for a moment and giving johnny his full attention .
i know that times have been hard for you since your mom passed .
but youve got to keep trying your best , youve got to keep doing well , its what she would have wanted , henry stumbled over his words , but he forced himself to press on .
i just want you to know that if theres anything on your mind , you can tell me .
im here for you , and it isnt always easy for me to be a good parent , theres a lot i still have to learn , but ill do my best .
i know dad , johnny said as henry searched for his next words .
johnny hated when his dad got so hard on himself .
henry clunker wasnt exactly someone who made his way easily through life , he struggled in a lot of ways , but he had a good heart and always tried to do the right thing , even when other stronger people might be tempted to do otherwise .
i want you to know that ill always keep trying , im always in your corner , right or wrong , henry concluded .
that was one area where no one could compete with henry he had a big heart and wasnt afraid to show that he cared .
johnny often wondered how his dad would feel if he ever found out that johnny was a super spy and that he was concealing so many things from him .
johnny imagined that his dad would be crushed , and it was a moment that johnny wanted to do his best to spare him from ever having to go through .
thanks dad , johnny said , mostly because he didnt really know what else to say .
he wanted to say that his dad didnt have anything to worry about , that johnny was not only doing fine , but thriving in his newfound profession .
but he couldnt .
he had to keep it a secret .
there was a moment of awkward silence between them where both father and son cleared their throat at the same time .
johnny pushed back his chair and headed for the sink with his bowl .
i better get going , johnny said as he started rinsing it .
dont worry about that , ive got it , henry said as he went back to comparing the different reports in his hand .
johnny smiled to himself .
his dad always said that , but if johnny never helped with the dishes , quite frankly , they would never get done .
his dad tended to forget things like that .
johnny picked up his backpack and headed for the door .
have a good day , father and son said at the same time , and then , thanks , also in unison .
johnny headed out the door .
the room was draped in shadows , the only light coming from an entire wall of regular monitors .
off to the side were multiple holographic workstations displayed in the air from hidden projectors around the room .
there was a sense of royalty about the room .
the carpet was rich with red , and there were large , expensive paintings hidden in the darkness of the walls .
people were scrambling all over the room to work at different work stations and conversing with each other in low voices .
a set of stairs led up to a large chair , shaped like a throne , where the widow black sat and watched all her worker bees buzz with activity .
the throne had numerous small holographic keypads where the widow could efficiently enter commands to change the work flow of the many people around her .
scar entered the dimly lit room , making sure to keep a wide berth around the many people in the room .
he made his way across the rich carpet and toward the stairs that would lead to the throne .
when one of the workers got too close , scar couldnt help snarling at it to keep its distance .
the worker looked at him with an impassive face and went about its business .
it was their faces that unnerved him the most , scar concluded .
none of the workers had any muscular control of their faces .
they were locked in a neutral expression , and couldnt move their mouths or any other part of their head besides their neck and eyes .
as such , they were always turning and looking impassively at things , and it gave scar the creeps like nothing else in the world .
of course , the reason the workers were like that was because they were androids , built for accomplishing tasks and not for looking realistic .
another one got too close , and scar stared it down .
it was a pointless gesture doomed to failure because the android couldnt even blink its eyes , even if it had facial muscular control , as it had no eye lids .
just get out of the way !
scar said at last , shoving the android aside and continuing on his way to the throne .
the android fell over with a clang .
all the other androids , noticing their companion had fallen down , immediately stopped what they were doing and turned their lidless eyes to scar .
one by one , they left their work and fell into line behind him , closing off his movements and hemming him in toward the throne .
as scar continued his walk , he began to become aware of what was happening , and was stealing glances out of the corner of his eye .
as big and strong as he was , he didnt like the prospect of having to fight down an army of androids .
surely the widow black would call them off before they got too far out of line ?
but she wasnt calling them off .
she turned to smile at him with a dangerous gleam in her eye .
scar continued to walk toward the throne and the androids continued to close in on him .
they had already completely cut off his way back out .
not that it mattered , scar never ran from anything , ever .
he held his head high and walked right up to stand before the widow black .
the androids moved like zombies , reaching out their grasping hands toward scar in a slow , methodical precision .
he tensed , bent slightly low to the ground and prepared for the onslaught .
they might take him down , but he wasnt going to go without a fight , he would take as many of them with him as he could .
he might even lash out at her , if the opportunity presented itself .
scar could understand what she was doing failure could not be tolerated and he had lost a very valuable artifact .
he would do the same thing in her place .
even so , he would fight back until he died , and she would probably expect no less .
scar and the widow black just stared at each other , the unsaid understanding hanging like a serpent between them , ready to strike scar down at the press of a button .
he broke eye contact and looked down at her finger , poised above the holopad button that would bring life back to the androids and a sure death to him .
for a moment he thought she pressed the button , thought he saw her finger move and a corresponding light emit from the holographic display beneath her hand .
but nothing happened , and he realized his eyes had played a trick on him .
he could feel himself getting jittery , the waiting was becoming too much .
if she was going to do it , then let her do it already .
but that was part of her cruelty , part of the fear she instilled in others .
the widow black understood that the anticipation was almost always worse than the punishment , and she did her best to make it as much a part of the punishment as it could become .
scar forced himself to look back up and meet her cold , hard gaze .
slowly , she moved her hand away from the holopad that controlled the androids .
scar judged the distance between him and the throne .
if he wanted , he could try and charge her before she got her hand back near the activation button .
the widow black stood up from her throne and took a step toward scar and the frozen army of androids around him .
scars breath caught in his throat .
she was well away from her command controls now and there would be nothing she could do in time before he got to her .
he was strong , incredibly strong .
he had no doubt that he could probably overpower her .
she continued to walk toward him , the malice evident in her eyes .
the throne was well behind her now .
the widow black walked up to him , almost casually , but brimming with anger .
she was delivering a message she didnt need her androids to take care of him .
it was also an invitation let him try to attack her if he felt he could , if he dared .
he hesitated , unsure .
physical power was one thing , but he had no real idea of what she was capable of , he didnt know what other tricks she could be hiding .
in fact , he really didnt know anything about her at all .
the only thing scar felt he knew for sure was that if he attacked her and failed , it would be the end of him .
staring into her cold , dark eyes , scar wondered if it was already too late .
the widow black lifted her arm and struck him across the face with the back of her hand .
scar stumbled , and had to take a balancing step to keep himself from falling .
she hit hard , and scar had to reassess what he thought her strength could be .
he could taste the blood in his mouth .
was he willing to risk an all out fight ?
scar straightened up and met her gaze once more .
the moment was over , he was subdued , he wasnt going to challenge her authority or her power .
she didnt say anything , she just looked at him .
but the message was clear , the widow black was a dangerous woman , far more dangerous than anyone had ever realized .
and if scar valued his life , it was a lesson he would do well to remember .
ackers was going to kill him .
that was the main thought that kept racing through johnnys mind while he sat in class .
he kept trying to push the thought out , but it kept coming back again .
realistically , the most ackers would do was lecture his brain away into a melted pile of unrecognizable goo .
it was probably one of the worst forms of torture , and ackers was particularly good at it .
and thanks to technology , he could do it from anywhere , and at anytime .
johnny realized again that he was thinking about it , and tried again to push it out of his mind .
he brought his attention back to the class .
ms. sniders walked around the room with a menacing stare .
she was wearing another one of her loud polka dot dresses and johnny couldnt understand how someone could wear such ugly clothes that made them stand out to such a high degree it was almost as if the dots and varied colors were specifically made to clash as much as possible .
ms. sniders looked his way .
johnny did his best to act like he was paying attention .
he remembered how foul her breath had been , and he didnt want to do anything to call her attention and bring her nearer .
it was already bad enough that he had to have detention with her , he didnt want anything to make it worse .
finally , her attention wandered to other students and johnny was free to stop pretending .
he glanced over at nancys empty desk .
she hadnt come to school that day , and johnny couldnt help thinking that something had gone terribly wrong .
where could she be ?
that was the second thought going through johnnys mind , competing with ackers wanting to kill him .
he looked at the time she was more than an hour late .
johnny started to wonder if something bad had happened to her .
she was obviously concerned that johnny chose to go to school before delivering the super chip to department x .
both nancy and ackers agreed on that point , and the two of them joining sides to lecture him was beginning to look like a crazy nightmare about to come true .
was she going to try and take the chip from his house while he was at school ?
johnny couldnt believe that .
he knew he had only been working with her a short time , but he trusted her enough to believe she would never try anything like that .
but then again , she had gone along with him without any qualms about handing the chip over once they got it .
wouldnt her handler , whoever that was , want it for themselves ?
johnny was beginning to worry .
mr. clunker ?
johnny shook himself out of his thoughts to see that ms. sniders and the entire class were looking at him .
day dreaming again , are we ?
ms. sniders continued .
johnny bent low over his notebook and pretended to write something down .
no , im listening , he said , somewhat pathetically .
johnnys mind was racing .
the last thing he wanted was for ms. sniders to come close to him and make him smell her horrid breath again .
then i suppose you would like to enlighten us with the answer ?
ms. sniders asked .
great , thought johnny , she just never gave him a break .
i dont know the answer , he admitted , breaking eye contact and staring at the floor .
ms. sniders gave an exaggerated sigh .
it seems you make it a habit of wasting our time .
it is fortunate that you will be spending detention time with me , where i can perhaps find a way to get that one track mind of yours on the right track .
ms. sniders went on with her english lesson .
johnny just shook his head this was going to be a long day .
ackers stood outside johnnys front door .
he looked nervous , and took frequent quick glances around to see if anyone was watching him .
this was preposterous no one knew he was here .
ackers tried to stop looking so out of place , he had to focus on the task at hand , compartmentalize each step , and follow through to his goal .
he glanced at his next objective , getting past the front door .
in all likelihood , there was no one at home .
johnny b .
fast would be at school , and his dad would have gone to work .
the lack of a car on the driveway confirmed this .
ackers gave himself a moment to pat himself on the back for his acute , observational skills .
so now the next step had to do with bypassing the locked door .
ackers reached out his hand and tried to turn the door handle , it didnt move .
it was definitely locked .
of course it was , but ackers couldnt take it for granted .
some things had to be investigated instead of assumed , and now that he knew for sure the door was locked , he knew exactly how to proceed .
he checked the driveway again to make sure the car was still gone .
ackers gave out a loud sigh he was stalling and he knew it .
then he glanced around the street quickly to see if anyone saw him sigh and would think that he was out of place .
then he berated himself for acting so foolish and amateurish .
he tried to turn the handle again , just to be sure .
still locked , and still no car in the driveway .
enough of this , it was time to get down to business .
ackers took the backpack off his shoulders and put it on the ground .
zipping it open , he dug through a series of gadgets and food rations , looking for a particular device .
having found it , he brought out what looked like a large thermometer with handles .
it had a line of blue , instead of red , liquid trapped inside a see through tube .
ackers carefully inserted the device into the crack on the door , and then he squeezed what looked like the blue mercury down the tube , out of the device and into the door .
he kept squeezing until there was no more blue liquid in his device .
then he got back up and waited , watching as a stream of smoke came out of the door .
now , i should have applied just enough that the liquid will bypass the locks structural integrity for a matter of moments , allowing me to bend it like rubber and open the door before the lock returns to a solid state , ackers thought out loud .
as he was thinking , he realized there was a presence behind him .
he froze .
he couldnt believe it there was definitely someone standing behind him on the porch .
he was caught already !
how did this happen ?
the united order wasnt supposed to know any of their real identities , let alone where johnny lived .
perhaps ackers had slipped up on security somewhere ?
was that even possible ?
ackers slowly turned around to see a paper delivery boy standing on the porch with his mouth hanging open in surprise .
ackers immediately sprang into action , using nothing but words to try and confuse and misdirect the potential assassin .
what are you doing there ?
ackers said .
the boy held out the paper in answer , his mouth still open as he looked at the weird gadget sticking out of the front door .
yes , thank you , i was looking for this , ackers said as he took the paper out of the paper boys hands and then dropped it to the ground .
youre a little late , arent you ?
isnt this supposed to be delivered first thing in the morning ?
while it is morning , it most certainly is not first thing , ackers rambled , trying to get some sort of information out of the paper boy while confusing him at the same time .
the boy continued to stare at the gadget .
ackers had a sneaking suspicion that this wasnt an assassin after all .
he was so relieved he almost fainted right there .
but then he was immediately proud of himself .
look how well he had handled the situation !
of course the boy was nothing but a civilian , and there really wasnt much of a situation to handle , but ackers was too relieved to think about any of these things .
i am just locked out of my house .
dont worry , the situation will resolve itself in a moment , ackers said , thinking quickly that he now had to appear as normal as possible so as not to arouse too much suspicion and have the paper boy call in any authorities .
ackers gave the front door a small push .
the bolt from the lock bent like rubber and allowed the door to swing open into the house .
you see ?
im back in my house , not a problem to concern yourself with , ackers said with his biggest and most uncomfortable looking smile .
it almost looked like ackers was straining his facial muscles to spread his lips far enough across his face .
ackers rarely smiled , and it was entirely possible that his muscles had atrophied from lack of use .
his face started twitching with the effort of keeping his lips spread wide enough to hold the smile .
the paper boy became slightly more alarmed the longer he stayed with ackers .
he started taking a few steps back off the porch .
there was a high pitched sound coming from somewhere inside the house .
ackers turned away from the paper boy and peered into the house .
what was that sound ?
the alarm !
ackers yelled to the paper boy as soon as he figured it out .
it is most likely giving me a thirty second delay to enter the proper code to let the computer and the alarm monitoring station know that i have returned home to the house that i live in .
ackers was simply no good at this , but he thought he was doing a splendid job of putting the paper boy at ease .
if anything , the paper boy would have probably been less alarmed if he had stumbled upon a group of people wearing masks and trying to openly burglarize the house .
the paper boy took a stumbling step back , and then another , and ended up almost tripping and tumbling down the stairs .
ackers turned his attention back to the alarm .
he stepped inside the house , and then went back outside again to pick up the paper that was just delivered and the thermometer gadget he had just used to open the door .
dont want to forget this , ackers held up the paper as he called out .
the paper boy hurried away .
satisfied that he had done his best to appear like he lived in the house , ackers went back inside and slammed the door behind him .
he approached the alarm keypad that was emitting the noise and inspected it from a distance .
he reached into his backpack and pulled out a square box that had its own keypad on the front of it .
he placed the box over the alarm keypad , completely covering it , and then started entering random number combinations on his own keypad .
he worked methodically , trying all different sorts of numbers in different orders and observing the display on his box as he typed .
soon the display told him that he had three out of four numbers correct .
ackers didnt have much time left , the alarm was about to go off .
he got the fourth number !
almost there , now he had to find the right order .
perfection !
the job was done and the high pitched noise stopped .
ackers slumped against the wall , exhausted .
no wonder he stayed back at the base how was anyone supposed to think clearly when they were out in the field with all these distractions ?
he got a good look at the combination of numbers that he had just used to turn the alarm off .
four , three , two , one ?
what kind of a code is that ?
they might as well have left the door open .
ackers detached his keypad box and threw both it and his lock picking gadget into his backpack .
now that he was inside , his next step was finding the super chip .
he found the super chip !
ackers held it up in his hand , staring at it with awe .
it was such a small and harmless looking thing , yet ackers knew that whoever held that chip had the power to circumvent the worlds technological safeguards .
it was like the ultimate skeleton key , able to open any lock .
all around ackers , johnnys room was a complete mess .
ackers had turned over every moveable item that he could lift and dumped its contents all over the floor , he had tossed all johnnys clothes from the closet , he had even taken apart johnnys old computer and made sure that the chip wasnt hidden anywhere in that prehistoric machine .
but ackers had finally found it buried at the bottom of the closet .
he knew instantly that it was the super chip there was no hiding the amount of connections and registers the chip held from ackers x ray glasses .
ackers took off the glasses and continued to stare at the chip .
a tear started welling up in his eye it was one of the most beautiful things he had ever stared at .
it was art , perfection , ultimate ackers stopped in his unrestrained admiration .
was that a noise ?
ackers listened more intently .
someone was opening the window to johnnys room !
looking wildly around the room , ackers spotted the only place he could instantly hide .
he dove under the desk of the old computer and held his breath , not daring to move a muscle and give himself or the chip away .
he must protect it at all costs , the safety of the world depended on it .
well , of course he had to protect himself as well .
the world wouldnt want him to get seriously hurt or injured or incapacitated in any way while he was saving it .
ackers swallowed a large lump in his throat .
outside field work really wasnt meant for someone as important as him .
nancy pried the window open and dropped lightly into johnnys room .
she looked around in disgust , unable to believe that johnny was as messy as he appeared to be .
she brought up her hand and started keying an entry into a small computer strapped onto her wrist .
the wrist computer started emitting a series of beeps like a sonar .
nancy walked around the room , listening to the beeps get faster as she approached different pieces of technology .
she went around the room once , listening to the series of beeps before deciding on where to refine her search .
the old computer desk was one area , so was the alarm clock by johnnys bed , and oddly enough there was something in the ceiling attracting the devices attention .
she decided to start with the desk .
she walked over to the old computer , listening as the beeps got quicker and louder .
underneath the desk , ackers was frozen in wide eyed fear .
he couldnt see who had snuck in through the window , but he knew a technological radar when he heard one .
he listened as the beeps came closer he was about to be caught .
nancy walked forward , holding the wrist computer ahead of her as the beeps reached a frantic pitch .
there was something powerful somewhere around the desk .
a large explosion from downstairs rocked the house .
nancy lost her footing and had to grab the desk to steady herself .
she heard the sound of booted feet running over carpet .
someone was yelling orders .
nancy was going to have to abort this mission was compromised .
she keyed in a series of commands into her computer , turning off the beeping , and then headed back to the window .
a quick look outside told her that there was no one covering that side of the house , at least she hoped there wasnt .
in any case she didnt have much else left to her she had to try and escape .
nancy dove out the window .
ackers clutched his heart in fear , as if he could try and stop it from beating out of his chest .
where did that explosion come from ?
what was going on ?
who had authorized all of this ?
with no answers to any of his questions , ackers was forced to take some kind of action or wait under the desk to be caught by someone .
his first order of business was to find out who was in the room without being caught .
as cautiously and spy like as he could , ackers peeked out from under the desk and looked around the room .
there was no one in sight whoever was there before was gone now .
the window was still open but there was no other trace that anyone had been there .
ackers heard the sound of furniture breaking and glass shattering from downstairs .
clearly there were two different groups breaking in to steal the chip and they had nothing to do with each other .
at least that was as clear as he could get without having seen either of them .
which brought him to his next order of business he had to find out who he was dealing with and how best to deal with them .
in other words , although ackers would never have admitted it this way , he had to find out how best to get away from whoever was now in the house .
ackers crept over to the door and opened it a crack , trying to look out into the hallway for any signs of the intruders .
the upstairs was completely empty it looked like they were all still downstairs for now .
he opened the door and walked as quietly as he could to the banister .
ackers looked downstairs .
there was a flurry of ordered chaos down there .
soldiers were destroying everything in sight to find the super chip .
they were barely getting out of their own way as they smashed and shot up every hiding place they could find .
even the walls werent safe as they blasted them with laser guns and searched the holes for any trace of the technological wonder that ackers had clutched tightly in his hand .
he opened his fist and looked down at the simple looking thing .
he would have to defend it , he knew that .
he would have to risk his life and put himself between them and the chip , using every gadget and skill at his disposal to save the precious artifact .
in other words , he was probably going to die .
but that was what heroes did they died defending what they believed in .
ackers closed his fist tightly again , his resolve strengthened .
the soldiers turned their attention toward the stairs leading up .
ackers shrank back into the shadows out of sight .
perhaps heroes could find a way to avoid dying while still defending their beliefs ?
maybe hiding was the best thing ackers could do at this moment ?
his resolve quickly fading , ackers turned and bolted back into johnnys room , softly closing the door behind him .
he had to think of something fast they were going to be upstairs at any moment .
ackers glanced toward the window and thought about throwing the chip outside .
it wouldnt be his problem anymore maybe they would find it , maybe they wouldnt .
one thing was for sure , they were definitely going to find it if he kept it .
no , he admonished himself , he couldnt think like that .
he had to protect it , he couldnt give it up .
the world was counting on him , there would be no surrender , no throwing away his responsibility .
like it or not , he was the one in this situation and he was going to have to do the right thing .
ackers held the super chip up , looking at it resting gently in his palm .
any minute they were going to break through the door , so ackers did the only thing he could think of .
he opened his mouth wide and swallowed the super chip .
it was like a lump in his throat , and for a moment it got stuck and ackers choked .
he fell to his knees and his face went red .
and then it was over , the chip was safely in his stomach .
it was only at that moment that ackers hoped his stomach acids wouldnt destroy it .
he cursed himself for not thinking about that sooner , but there was nothing he could do about it now .
ackers struggled back to his feet and faced the door .
he could hear the soldiers on the other side .
his time had run out , ackers knew that .
there was nothing to do but wait to be caught .
but at least he wouldnt surrender the chip he couldnt .
no matter what happened now there was no giving up .
ackers tried to steady his nerves and his breathing while he kept his head up high .
he was ready to face his fate , a true hero to the end .
nancy watched the attack on johnnys house from a safe distance away .
she was partially hidden behind a large oak tree very much like the one she had zip lined up into the night she and johnny had walked home after their failed attempt to get the chip .
there were multiple vans parked sporadically all over the street in front of johnnys house , their back doors were still wide open from where the army of soldiers had poured out .
several of them were still on guard around the vans , keeping watch around the neighborhood for any signs of resistance .
nancy shook her head .
it was like a full scale invasion .
if she had only shown up a bit earlier she probably would have had enough time to find the chip and leave before anyone got there .
nancy brought a small device up and clipped it to her ear .
she activated it with two quick taps and then waited while a connection was established .
it was a nice day out , with barely a cloud in the sky .
it wasnt too hot or too cold , perfect weather .
youd never know that anything bad could be happening on such a peaceful , sunny day .
but if the united order got the chip back , it would be a day that none of them would ever forget .
the united order would never make the mistake of letting them steal the chip back a second time .
it would be moved to a super secure location and guarded by the best people and technology that the order could afford .
then they would use it to get whatever they wanted .
they would build their wealth quickly and their power would increase just as fast .
soon , there would be few people who could stand up to them , and soon after that there would be no one that could defy them openly .
they would be an unstoppable force upon the world .
nancy heard a series of beeps that told her the link was established through several layers of advanced encryptions , making it almost impossible for anyone to listen into her conversation .
a voice spoke to her from the other end of the line , it said only one word , yes ?
the voice was modulated and scrambled , making it pointless to try and figure out who the person on the other end of the line was .
not that anyone would have been able to break through all the security of the connection , but even if they did they wouldnt find anything that was worth knowing .
i wasnt able to retrieve the chip .
the united order showed up with over two dozen soldiers who are now tearing the house apart to find it , nancy said as she continued to watch the house .
on the other end of the line , her handler stayed silent .
nancy waited , knowing that her handler didnt like to be interrupted when given bad news .
nancys handler meant the world to her .
the handler had found her just over two years ago , had helped train her and shown her how to make and use the most advanced technological gadgets the world had ever seen .
given enough time , nancy could probably turn a toaster into a jetpack , a laser gun or a radar scrambler .
her handler had also taught her how to fight both how to handle crowds of people and one on one against the most expert martial arts masters .
her handler had given her a new life away from her all too cold foster family and the orphanage before that .
she had also given nancy the spy name of seventy seven , and the identity and sense of purpose that went along with it .
nancy didnt have an entire organization behind her like johnny and ackers .
she had just one person , and as far as nancy was concerned , that was enough .
all might not be lost if the chip is not found .
does b .
fast suspect anything ?
her handlers voice came through the other line , disrupting nancys thoughts .
no , he thinks im helping him , nancy replied .
she felt guilty about her deception .
nancy liked johnny , maybe even more than she wanted to admit , and deceiving him like this made her stomach feel empty and hollow .
would he ever forgive her ?
would she ever forgive herself ?
nancy tried to push the thoughts away as her handler began speaking again .
stay by the house .
when johnny arrives , do what you can to help him .
if the united order gets the chip there wont be much we can do other than a full scale attack .
i understand , nancy replied .
the connection was dropped and nancy found herself alone again .
she took the device away from her ear and slipped it back into her pocket .
johnny had to understand .
in the end , this was all just part of being a super spy .
end of part one the cursed sun by paul westwood copyright 2011 paul westwood formerly titled malediction published at smashwords smashwords edition , license notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
chapter 1 i still look both ways when i cross a street , even though there is nothing left to look for .
there are no longer any running cars left in this wreck of a world , but old habits still remain .
when i was a child , my father would take me firmly by the hand and pause at the curb .
he would stop and ask me if any cars were coming .
i would dutifully crane my neck and peer down whatever road we were on .
once i had given the all clear , we would then hastily cross the street as if some rogue vehicle was about to strike us down .
cars were rare then , but now there arent any to watch out for because there arent any left .
the fuel and spare parts have long since disappeared .
the roads are now just crumbling into weed choked rubble with only foot traffic , a few horses , and the rare caravan making use of the ancients once proud achievement .
in my fathers days , the trail was always busy with the carrying of goods .
but now , those times were only a memory .
the traders are now rare because the number of goods scavenged from the crumbling ruins had diminished considerably .
everything that was easy to take has been taken .
since no one has the skill to make these glorious objects again , it would only be a matter of time before we were all reduced to digging in the dirt for sustenance .
we were now mere parasites on a dying world , waiting for the end to come .
before entering , i paused outside and looked at my home of twenty eight years .
it was one of the few hotels left on the trading trail .
like the other large buildings in the town of ewark , it too was made by the ancients .
what made my hotel different was it stood three stories high , which these days is a rarity .
anything else taller has crumbled away into decay , becoming yet another ruin to be scavenged for building materials .
but nonetheless the brown brick of the outside walls has been repaired many times and hardly resembled the building i remembered from my childhood .
back then it had looked as new as the day it was made .
but now , large parts of the exterior had been patched roughly with mud because there were no more proper bricks left to make the repairs .
my father and mother would have cried if they could see what it looked like now .
the town of ewark was nothing more than a few prominent buildings surrounded by a number of smaller residences made with inferior materials .
besides my hotel , there was the mosque where the calls to pray emanated , the town hall where the local sharif named faisi ruled , an open market that had nothing much left to sell , and a general store that often had empty shelves .
the desert we lived in was bad for farming , so the residents raised some half starved livestock , or made their living by providing services to the traveling caravans .
in the days past , it was a good living , but recently there had been a decline in business .
part of me would have preferred to move north , but this town was all that i had ever known or wanted to know .
it has been said that the northern climate was cooler and the cities more prosperous .
every day someone left our city to make the trek there .
i still hadnt decided what to do .
near the entrance to my hotel , a line of nine tethered horses stood at the hitching post .
they snorted and drank from the wooden watering trough , their tails brushing away the ever present flies .
two soldiers of the mujadeen , resting lazily against the shaft of their spears , were watching the horses with disinterest .
there was very little to see in this town and even less to do , unless you knew the right men .
i was one of those men who could find entertainment for the most jaded of customer .
there was the brothel , though the woman there were of little interest , a place to wager against the throwing of dice , and even a bar .
of course all places like that were forbidden against the holy laws that ruled the entire world , but such vices will always be around until man is no more .
one of the soldiers saw me .
he grinned when he saw the small barrel balanced on top of my shoulder .
he said , as you know , landlord , the possession of alcohol is strictly forbidden .
we will have to confiscate it unless you would like to lose your head .
not changing my expression , i stopped and bowed deeply , which is hard to do with a barrel resting on your shoulder .
with my natural strength , such a task is not unmanageable .
this is just fresh water for your master , i lied .
in fact it was beer that i had just bought from my friend kalam , who lived nearby .
he was a brewer by trade and only sold to a select number of clientele .
his product was well known to the upper classes of the area and any visiting dignitary would want to partake .
the other soldier laughed knowingly , his round belly shaking under his dirty tunic made of roughly knitted wool..
he spat out , we would be more than willing to sample this so called water for our master .
we wouldnt want him to be poisoned or fall sick .
im afraid not , i said and pushed past them .
there was no reason to talk any further to those two , but there was also little reason to anger them .
the common soldiers of the mujadeen were an underpaid lot , but at least they had the security of knowing where their next meal was coming from .
the beer in my possession would have cost any other man his life , but the sub vizier staying at my hotel was beyond such petty rules .
his men knew that he imbibed the forbidden liquid , but so did everyone , if given the chance .
locally , i was one of the few black market sellers of beer , which allowed me barely enough coin to keep this place running .
compared to the heat outside , the lobby of the hotel was a cool haven from the blazing sun .
the carpeting underneath my feet was quite threadbare , and the oak panels were in dire need of a repair , but the building still managed to cling to the long forgotten charm of an older era .
placed against the wall was an aged grandfather clock that had broken years ago , the hands permanently stuck at ten minutes after five .
there were also a few paintings and faded photographs showing unknown scenes of the past building , people , and streets crowded with cars .
i would have loved to repair the interior to its former glory , but like the bricks outside , no carpenter could truly master the techniques of the ancients .
hussen , my recently hired clerk , looked at me impassively from the front desk as i passed him by .
he was a man of medium build , a shock of black hair that always looked unruly , and brown eyes that were forever roaming as if hunting for prey .
i missed my old worker , pawl , but he had recommended his cousin to take over his many duties .
i really had no reason to complain of this new mans performance , but he was sullen and did not show me the respect that i thought i deserved .
but at least he could read and write , which is more than i can say for many of the other residents of this shrinking town .
taking the creaky wooden stairs two at a time , i climbed to the third story .
i then took the hallway leading to my very best room .
it was dark here , the only light coming from the open window at the end of the hall .
after suppertime , candles were lit to guide my customers to their rooms , but economy forced me to rely on natural light during the day .
i stopped at the door near the end of the hallway .
giving it a tentative knock , the door was immediately opened by a thin sergeant with a wispy black beard .
his dark eyes looked me over , perhaps checking me over for weapons .
with such an important visitor , all precautions were being taken .
ah , the landlord has finally arrived , he said .
he then flung the door open to let me pass .
as i mentioned before , this was the best room in the hotel .
it was really two rooms that at some time in the past had been combined into one .
the original wall that had once separated the two rooms was now a graceful arch that ended with a white column on either side .
the open windows revealed the seemingly unending desert outside .
on the two sofas sprawled the other soldiers , busily eating the lunch of lamb stew that the maid had brought up .
they were messy eaters , so i rightfully feared for the condition of the fabric , which was worn but in amazing condition considering the age .
on the other side of the room sat the sub vizier rasid .
he was resting in a low chair , his feet propped up on the edge of the bed .
rasid was large , perhaps the only obese man in the entire region .
it seems that the rest of us were working too hard to stay alive to afford the luxury of a large dinner .
his sherwani jacket and turban were made from the finest golden colored silk , while his pants were made from the whitest cotton .
only the very richest could afford such garments since paying for such rare workmanship was prohibitively expensive for anyone else .
peeking from the sash wrapped around his rotund stomach , i could see the butt of the ceremonial pistol .
the secret of the gun has been lost ever since time of the ancients .
only the powerful mujadeen had the power to get the rare but required ammunition .
their soldiers and the rest of us made due with swords , spears and bows .
it was amazing that such a small device could kill scores of men while leaving the user free of exertion .
mikel !
rasid boomed out .
he beamed at me , his black , pointed beard bobbing up and down in anticipation of the beer resting on my shoulder .
im so glad to see you .
come here and bring that good drink to me .
i graciously bowed in my most ingratiating manner since rasid was a valued customer of mine .
though his visits were rare , he was a big spender , helping to provide enough income to help keep me afloat in these bare years .
as i drew near , his black eyes glittered at me from the rolls of fat that made up his face .
has this years batch turned out well ?
he asked , licking his lips .
it certainly has , sir , i answered .
do you wish me to tap the barrel now so you may sample it ?
he nodded and watched greedily as i rested the barrel on the table and spiked it open .
the cellar stored beer splashed cold against the bottom of my hand .
i then poured the golden liquid into a long , tall glass that had already been placed in readiness for the sub viziers visit .
smacking his lips in anticipation , rasid took the glass from my hand and drank deeply .
after a moment , he looked up from his glass with flecks of foam on his upper lip .
he said , by allah , you are correct .
this is the best batch yet !
someday i will have to meet the maker of such a fine drink .
now pour out a mug for each of my men and then come replenish mine .
we shall then sit and talk since i have much to discuss with you .
i did as he bid , pouring out a mug of beer for each of his man .
though alcohol was forbidden by law , they did not seem to mind .
i then returned to rasid and refilled his now empty glass .
he motioned for me to sit on the edge of the bed , which i did .
rasid leaned over and squeezed my knee , the sour smell of his breath hitting me in the nostrils .
i smiled wanly at him .
tell me , mikel , how is business ?
fair , i replied .
rasid squeezed my knee one more time before returning his interest back to the glass of beer .
he took another gulp .
trade is down and does not appear to be getting any better .
the warlord is worried that the rebels may be having an effect on the caravans .
what do you think ?
i knew that rasid reported directly to the warlord .
whatever the sub vizier said was also of interest to that faraway ruler .
i shrugged .
over the years , trade has been getting steadily worse .
i do not see it getting any better , especially since the traders can no longer loot the ancients cities like they once did .
as time goes on , common objects and luxury goods can only get more expensive .
that will hurt all of us .
he stared at me .
so you do not think the rebels are of any consequence ?
i shook my head .
i have never seen one here in ewark .
which was true .
it seemed any rebellion was small and of little consequence .
sometimes men talked of them , but it was mostly with humor .
it was commonly thought that the mujadeen used them as a easy scapegoat .
rasids free hand waved across the points of the compass .
the rebels are everywhere .
they travel the roads , looking for easy prey .
it is only through the magnificent power of the mujadeen that we have any civilization at all .
do you not agree ?
of course i agree , i said , bowing my head in supplication .
the mujadeen also keeps us safe from the creatures of the wasteland .
in fact the mujadeen had been in power ever since the evil days when the ancients were destroyed .
no one could imagine a world without the warlord and his followers .
they not only made the laws , they also enforced them with an iron fist .
it was said that the warlord , who governed from the city of washtin , had a mighty army at his command .
why they did not simply crush the rebels was a matter of some speculation .
if it wasnt for the mujadeen , there would be no law .
there would be no order to the world .
and what do the rebels want ?
they speak of freedom when no one can afford it .
they speak of liberty when they offer nothing but chaos .
those old words mean nothing anymore .
now what kind of world would their promises bring ?
im just a simple hotel owner , i replied , slowly shaking my head .
i know little of politics and even less of these ancient words that the rebels speak of .
i was , of course , speaking the truth .
though a few of the visiting traders spoke of the rebels , no one ever claimed of being robbed by them .
i personally put little stock in these so called rebels since i had never seen any evidence that they had a hold on the countryside .
people feared the wasteland more than any man .
rasid , meanwhile , laughed , the fat jowls of his face shaking with mirth .
my friend , you would succeed under any regime !
you only care about business , dont you ?
stability is good for business , i answered meekly .
what is good for business is good for me .
he took another sip from his beer , his expression hard to read .
this is why i need to talk to you .
the warlord is worried that the rebels are starting to gain prominence in this area .
that is evident enough in other towns .
he worries that they will be supported by the populace , especially since the trade is diminishing .
there will be some hungry bellies soon , and that means the land will be ripe for revolution .
hungry people are more willing to listen to far fetched promises that no one could possible keep .
we will need people like you to be our eyes and ears , to stop the rebellion from spreading here in ewark .
i frowned .
im not sure what you mean .
you run a business that caters to travelers .
you certainly must hear many a rumor from the men that stay at your establishment .
if you could pass that information on to me , then that would be of a great help .
you attach too much importance to my position , i said humbly .
his eyes narrowed , becoming near invisible slits .
his voice became suddenly harsh as he said , i think not .
and this isnt exactly a request .
this is an order .
you will do as i say or else there will consequences .
as you command , i replied quietly .
chapter 2 the next morning , i watched as the sub vizier and his men rode away .
i was glad to see him go since i did not like any man to give me orders , especially inside my own hotel .
but still , i could n't decline his demands since i had a business to run .
it would only take one word from rasid and i would be thrown out of my own home or even put to death .
the unfairness of it irked me to no end , but that was the way of the world .
there was nothing that i could do but do as he commanded .
days passed , and the summer heat became almost unbearable .
it was like an oven inside the rooms and except for the blowing sands , the world outside became very still .
travelers were few , so i decided to leave and visit kalam at his home .
it was here in his cellar that he brewed his beer and kept the precious liquid stored away from the beating rays of the sun .
kalam was much older than i , having been an old friend of my father .
his actual age was unknown , and rumor was that he had once been a great warrior a captain in the mujadeen .
but when pressed for information , he would never say a thing , but would instead just shake his head and smile .
when i took over the business after the death of my father , kalam continued to sell his illicit alcohol to me without a further word .
he seemed to like me well enough in his quiet way .
as i watched , kalam was carefully measuring out hops , his dark , wrinkled hands gently moving the cup from the burlap bag to the pail .
his turban covered head was held low , his eyes concentrating on the task .
i do n't think i have ever seen him lose a single one .
a gray beard cascaded down from his chin , covering the front of his simple cotton shirt .
it was always relaxing to watch a craftsman at work , and the coolness of the stone floor was a relief from the boiling heat outside .
kalam was a man of few words , so i was surprised when he finally spoke .
his gravelly voice was always low and almost incoherent except to his closest friends .
he croaked , ive heard that rasid , the sub vizier , came to visit you .
when i had bought the beer , i had not mentioned this to him since he did not seem to care who consumed it .
he trusted me enough to keep his name out of any dealings with the law .
that was expected without comment since my father would have done the same .
yes , he did , i replied uncertainly .
he nodded , the hair of his beard bobbing up and down .
and what did he want of you ?
i replied cautiously , he stops at my hotel at least once a year .
it is part of his tour of this province to make sure that all is well .
nothing unusual about it .
rasid did not ask anything special from you ?
no favors ?
i began to wonder why i was being asked these questions since kalam had never shown any interest in my business before .
my voice sharpened as i replied , why do you care ?
kalam shrugged .
its of no importance .
im just curious .
slightly mollified , i answered , he spoke of the rebels and their growing influence .
i was then asked to report any rumors or anything out of the ordinary that came my way .
it was actually more of an order really .
something seems to be bothering the mujadeen .
and how did that feel ?
to be told to spy on others ?
i did not like it at all , i replied honestly .
my job is to run my hotel , not to spy on my customers .
kalam returned his attention back to his work .
he said over his shoulder , times are changing .
the old order is crumbling like the bricks of your hotel .
you will have to be very careful if you want to stay alive .
what do you mean ?
i asked .
he shrugged but did not answer .
i angrily left kalam , letting the old man keep his mysterious words .
from there , i entered the town .
these days ewark was certainly not an impressive sight , but it has been said that it was once a mighty metropolis in the days of the ancients .
back then , it supposedly had innumerable buildings built to dizzying heights , a network of roads which were mysteriously lit at night , and thousands of residents .
now , looking at the rutted track that ran between the handful of low buildings , such past stories had to be the creation of a fanciful imagination .
there was nothing here but sand .
underneath the surface , scraps of old wreckage was occasionally discovered by someone digging a well or repairing a foundation .
but still , if there had been a great city here , not all of it could have disappeared under the sands .
before returning to my hotel , i decided to replenish my larder .
the store i stopped at had been built a scant twenty years ago , but already looked as it would collapse .
the hardened mud that made up the sides was faded from years of blowing sand , and the thatch roof sagged on one side .
it really was n't that good of a place , but except for the open market , the owner had the luxury of having a monopoly on the trade .
i pushed open the wooden door , which let out a clang from the bell mounted above the frame .
inside , i saw i was the only customer .
it was dingy as usual , with only two oil lamps providing the light , except for the sun which shone dimly through the dusty window .
the glass counter that stretched the length of the store was equally dirty and the cuts of meat inside were swarming with lazy , fat flies which is one reason why i preferred to buy my meat from a local farmer .
the rest of my food and supplies i sadly had to purchase here .
ah , mikel ! ''
a voice rang out from behind the counter .
it was myliss , the storeowner .
she was a skinny shrew of a woman with lank brown hair that was streaked with gray .
her manner towards me was always ingratiating , but i heard that she had a sharp tongue for her employees and less wealthy customers .
good morning , '' i said .
i shall need fifty pounds of rice , ten pounds of butter , and five loaves of bread .
i will also need some saffron , ginger , and garlic . ''
she sadly shook her head .
i have everything but the butter and the garlic .
and for now i can only give you twenty pounds of rice . ''
i hesitated before answering , calculating the state of my own supplies .
that 's going to make things difficult .
are you having trouble with your vendors ? ''
the regular supply caravan is late .
there has n't been one here for over a week .
i 'm going to have to start raising prices if things do n't get any better . ''
i shrugged since caravans were usually notoriously late .
well , deliver what you can .
i can make what i already have last a little longer .
with the number of customers visiting my hotel , there is little chance that i will starve to death . ''
i need payment now , '' myliss said , her normally friendly tone was now hard and unyielding .
i also need payment for last month 's bill . ''
but i always pay on time , '' i replied indignantly .
why are you changing your terms with me after so many years of business ? ''
her expression was now cold and unyielding .
i 'm not only asking you , mikel , but everyone .
if i can not get the food in , then prices are going to have to rise .
that means my costs are also going to rise .
so i will need the money to pay the few suppliers that do make it in to ewark . ''
its really that bad ? ''
i grumbled .
very well , i will return with money in hand .
her face softened , revealing an underlining anxiety .
the way things are going , it will be a wonder if im in business next year , she complained .
the deliveries are getting rarer and rarer .
the few caravans who do make it in complain of robbery , theft , and even death .
i pondered this news .
it was always dangerous for the caravans , but such things had never stopped them to this degree .
i am sorry to hear that , myliss .
has no one complained to the sharif ?
it is his job to keep the province open to trade .
she shook her head .
i have made several appeals , but he always tells me that he lacks the manpower to cover every route .
anyways , much of what happens is beyond the borders of the province .
ive heard word that the creatures of the wasteland are on the march .
but i dont take much stock in such fantasies .
theres nothing there but sand , unless you believe those childish stories .
the wasteland was a massive empty desert to the west of us .
it went on for innumerable miles and was rumored to be populated by the most terrible of beasts .
most traders steered clear of the area , but the roads heading north and south still touched the borders of the accursed place .
the mujadeen were supposed to patrol these areas , keeping the citizens safe from violence .
with a bow , i then left the store , wondering what this fresh information meant to me .
chapter 3 summer was now reaching its zenith .
the days were long , dusty and hot .
it was in the afternoon when i was at the front desk with hussen , going over the accounts .
his pencil scratched busily on the paper as i read out the pitiful amounts .
the recent visit of the sub vizier has enriched my pockets , but other than that , business had been poor .
the hotel was currently unoccupied and would probably stay that way for the next few weeks .
at this rate , i would have to close up in only a few months .
there just was n't enough business to keep me solvent .
the price of food was now higher than ever since everything but livestock was dependent on trade .
only a handful of caravans had made it through , leaving the city practically starving .
no one knew what happened to the missing wagons , making it all more mysterious .
these dire thoughts were cut short by the opening of the front door .
in walked a swarthy man dressed in a dusty tunic , grimy pants , and black leather boots that had seen better days .
the travel worn turban wrapped around his head was partially undone , the loose cloth knotted across his face to protect against the ever present dust and scorching sun..
the gray eyes stared keenly at me .
you have a room available ?
he asked with a quiet , dignified voice .
i think i might just be able to fit you in , i lied with the manners of a practiced hotelkeeper .
i would have been happier if he could rent out an entire floor .
hussen was staring dumbly at the stranger .
i 'm normally not a cruel man , but hussen 's attitude had a way of bringing out the worst in me .
the fool finally moved when i kicked him squarely in the rear .
get the guests bags !
i shouted at him .
hussen scuttled outside , giving me a malignant glare as he left .
the visitor just smiled at this scene of modern employee management .
he said calmly , i would like a room with northern exposure and one that lies on the ground floor .
do you have such a room available ?
yes , that can be arranged .
a wise choice , if i do say so myself .
that side of the hotel is much cooler this time of year .
now if you would please , could you sign the register ?
he studied the register book for a moment before untying the cloth over his face , exposing a short cropped beard and narrow cheeks .
i would prefer not to sign .
is it really necessary ?
i looked at the guest closer , wondering why he balked at signing .
perhaps he did not have enough money to stay here .
it is the law , i replied firmly , hoping to scare away any potential dodging of payment .
he smiled , the fine lines around his mouth growing in prominence .
lets just say that i have a private disposition .
i would be willing to pay to keep my privacy .
i shook my head .
its the law everyone must sign the ledger or else i would be fined .
reaching into his tunic , the guest reluctantly retrieved a leather purse .
he opened it , pulling out a stack of gold dinars which he placed on the desk .
that will be more than enough to pay for your silence , he said .
but do not abuse my trust .
in these lean times , no man could refuse the sight of gold .
nodding , i grabbed the stack of coins and pulled them towards me .
at that moment , hussen returned with two leather cases hanging from his arms .
his eyes followed the money as it disappeared into my pocket .
he then looked suspiciously back and forth between the stranger and me .
take our guest to room twelve , i commanded .
yes , sir .
hussen replied sourly .
he then shuffled off with our new guest in tow .
i called after the stranger , sir , dinner is served promptly at six oclock .
tonight it will be chicken and rice .
if you do not come , then you will be left to your own devices .
my mysterious guest did not respond , but instead disappeared down the hall .
i was left wondering why he was trying to remain concealed .
it would have been easy enough to write a false name since i wouldnt have bothered to examine his traveling papers .
anyways , the local sharif never came around to check my register .
it was a mystery , but not one that i was going to concern myself with .
i really had no reason to pry in this mans affairs .
but i suddenly remembered the words of the sub vizier .
he would have been most interested to hear of a man trying to travel the roads without leaving a trace behind .
but how could i contact rasid ?
did he expect me to go through the sharif ?
he gave me no instructions for such a situation .
he merely asked for the rumors and stories that passed my way , not to point out potential troublemakers to the police .
that thought salved my conscience somewhat .
there was probably nothing to report here since some traders liked to remain anonymous in fear of being robbed .
i pushed those thoughts aside and returned to my book keeping .
i was happy for the small stack of gold i had just received since it would allow me to stay open for a little longer than planned .
perhaps , once the heat reduced in the autumn , more travelers would take to the roads .
it was a faint hope , but it was the only one i had .
it was too bad that there wasnt anyone left in ewark who could afford to buy my business .
i really did not want to travel to the cooler north and leave everything behind since this was the only home i had ever known .
later in the day , after i had finished my other chores , i was in the kitchen , helping my maid molli prepare dinner .
i could see that the rice was bubbling nicely on the stove and from the oven came the delicious smell of chicken .
i stole a glance at molli , who was looking as lovely as ever .
she has been with my family for almost twenty years now , having started with us at the age of nine .
that made her only a little older than me .
she still retained much of her beauty , but the ever present sun had turned her once fair skin nut brown .
when i was a younger man , i had fallen under her spell .
back then , she taught me much about the mysteries of woman , but our love was not meant to be .
after a brief blaze of lust , we had drifted apart , falling into an amiable friendship .
even though she had been courted by several prominent men of the town , she loyally stayed with the hotel .
it was her home now .
she caught me looking at her .
with a faint , knowing smile that just showed the edges of her white teeth , she returned her attention to stirring the rice .
i asked with a slight trace of embarrassment , molli , have you seen our only guest ?
no , i havent .
when i brought him a basin of water , he told me through the door to leave it outside .
well , he had better come down for dinner .
im not going to send you up there just because he cant be on time .
she nodded absentmindedly and returned to her cooking duties .
from the pump inside the kitchen , i filled a pitcher of water .
i brought it outside to the dining room .
it was an area near the lobby with five circular tables just enough room to feed all of my customers if i was completely booked up .
salii , the town storyteller , was there at the cold fireplace , hoping to make a few shekels telling tales to travelers .
his wizened face looked disappointed by the small audience .
the only guest was already sitting at one of the tables , his chair leaning against the back of the wall .
he was watching me with guarded eyes .
i brought the water over to his table and poured it into his waiting glass .
good evening , landlord , he said politely .
i would expect more customers to be here for dinner .
business hasnt been very good .
i hope your room is satisfactory , '' i said as i put the pitcher down on the table .
it will do .
now will you have a seat ?
there are a few words of a private nature that i wish to have with you .
i complied , even though i did not know why he would want to speak with me .
after i had seated myself , he poured me a glass of while talking in a most amiable fashion .
he said in a low voice so we would not be overheard by salii .
ive been told that you are a man who can be trusted .
how would you like to make some more money ?
i bowed my head in recognition .
i dont know who you talked to , but as long as it is not illegal , i would gladly endeavor to help you .
but i do not know what you would possibly want from a simple hotel owner like myself .
he laughed .
and i see that you are also a man of high morals .
ive already paid for your silence concerning my stay here .
for a few more dinars , would you be willing to look the other way when i leave the premises tonight ?
i hesitated before answering .
im not normally in the habit of keeping track of my guests whereabouts .
its of no concern of mine where you go or what you do .
i merely provide a roof over your head and a place to eat .
that is very broad minded of you , but im more concerned about the mujadeen .
if they should come and ask questions about me , i would prefer that you do not mention that i left your hotel in the middle of the night .
he saw my look of disbelief and quickly added , i can assure you that i am really doing nothing illegal .
im not going to rob or kill anyone .
i blinked a few times as i digested this information .
im not sure if i can agree to that , i finally said .
i dont know who you are or why you are here .
i do not want to put my life or my business at risk for just a few coins .
my words were interrupted by opening of the kitchen door .
it was molli .
she was carrying a tray loaded with food .
she promptly put the chicken and rice before us , shooting me an inquisitive glance .
i nodded politely at her and waited until she had returned to the kitchen .
before i could continue , my guest said , you can call me tai .
im a friend of kalam .
i looked at him suspiciously , wondering how this stranger could know kalam .
i said , you do ?
then you must have tried his wine before .
he shook his head .
wine ?
dont play me the fool .
kalam only makes beer unless he has changed his ways after all these years .
i sighed in relief .
well , you are correct .
im sorry .
tai , any friend of kalam is a friend of mine .
tell me , how do you know him ?
he has been a friend of mine for a very long time , he replied evasively .
granted , it has been a long time since i 've seen him , but i always make a point to visit him when i stop here in ewark . ''
i shrugged my shoulders .
if he is a friend of yours , then you can count on my silence .
i give you my word .
he politely bowed his head .
now lets waste no more breath on mere words .
we have this good supper before us .
lets eat .
as we supped , salam began to tell the story one that i was quite familiar with since i had heard it countless times .
of course everyone had since it was part of our history , the sort of tale passed from father to son and mother to daughter .
with his loud and commanding voice , salii said , countless years ago , back before the oldest grandfather was even a child , there was an age where mankind lived in sin .
the people of the earth were creatures beholden to outlandish fashions , strange addictions , and a life without the guidance of mohammed and allah .
it was because of these immoralities that the great war came .
this was the war that ravaged the globe , destroying life and cleansing the land with flame and famine .
in the battle soldiers fought , cities were burned , green pastures turned to desert , and the people of many lands were hunted and destroyed .
even though he was playing to just myself and tai , salii stood up , his ancient frame wavering .
he raised his hands , his voice rising in volume .
from the ashes rose the mujadeen , who were free of sin .
with their might and with their sword , they took what was left .
the mujadeen turned chaos into order and reshaped the world into a better place .
we are blessed that they threw out the sinners , and made a place that is safe , free of our worst natures .
we are now under the guidance of the one and only god .
chapter 4 my small bedroom was located in a room behind the front desk .
it was handy to have for the arrival of late night guests .
it was here that i kept some of my more personal treasures a small painting of my parents , an original and still sealed pack of cigarettes from the times of the ancients , and a collection of antique drinking glasses .
perhaps it was the nature of my business , but ive always been a poor sleeper .
nonetheless even with that handicap , i did not hear tai leave that night .
he must have left by the window in his room since i did not hear his passing through the doors of the lobby .
it was some time in the middle of the night when i was awoken by the sound of a gentle tapping .
feeling disorientated , i opened my eyes and was met by the pitch blackness of my shuttered room .
the sound was coming from the single window which looked out on to the road a few yards away .
fearing some enterprising thief was trying to gain access inside , i reached over to my side table and retrieved the dagger that normally hung from my waist .
i never had cause to use it before , but such an ornament was expected these dangerous days .
in the darkness , i stole gently to the window .
i was about to fling it open when the noise suddenly stopped .
opening the window as quietly as possible , i swung back the shutters .
from the light of the moon , i could see no one standing outside .
i was about to return to my slumber when i heard a low moan coming from the ground .
leaning over the casement , i saw a shadowed body lying there , resting close to the foundation .
you must help me , a voice croaked .
it was tai .
pulling myself through the window , i was soon standing over him .
reaching down to grab his shoulders from the behind , i felt the shaft of an arrow protruding from his back .
with a jerk , i removed it , which brought a heavy moan from tai .
his back was slick with blood .
as carefully as i could , i picked him up and swung his body over my shoulder .
that movement caused more grunts of discomfort from him .
from there , i staggered over to the front entrance and found it locked .
since i had left my keys in my room , i resorted to pounding on the door .
open up , hussen !
i shouted .
he normally slept in the room next to the front entrance , supposedly guarding the hotel from intruders .
there was no answer , so i rapped the door again with my fist .
as before , the knocking had no effect .
damn it , hussen , open the door !
i shouted , my anger starting to boil over .
after another minute , the door opened .
holding a lit candle , molli was standing there in a pale nightgown , her blonde hair mussed from sleep .
why are you outside ?
she meekly asked .
where is hussen ?
i asked angrily as i staggered inside with tai .
molli was a gentle soul who knew nothing of violence .
she gasped at the sight of the wounded man .
with her face pale from shock , she replied , i dont know .
he should be here .
well , he isnt .
i was surprised that hussen had deserted his post .
where could the fool be ?
pushing that thought away , i had to decide what to do with tai before he bled all over my lobby .
he was in a bad state and needed medical treatment beyond what i could administer .
ill take him to my room , i heard myself saying .
it will be closer than dragging him to his .
she nodded and started ahead , the dim light of the candle throwing ghastly shadows on the familiar walls .
pulling tai past the front desk and into my room , i dumped him on my bed .
with unsteady hands , i lit the oil lamp at my side table and then looked closer at this friend of kalam .
i certainly was no doctor , but i could only see the he was unconscious and still losing blood .
his breathing was so shallow that i wondered how much longer he would live .
what happened to him ?
molli whispered .
i snapped back , i found him outside the bedroom window with an arrow in his back .
hurry to the kitchen and boil some water .
this wound will need to be cleaned if he has any chance of living .
she left in haste , the sound of her bare feet thudding against the floors .
im sorry that i came here , tai croaked .
he had somehow regained consciousness once again .
his grey eyes were glassy with pain and the jaw set in a fixed scowl .
as he spoke , the lips barely moved .
i tried to make it to kalams house but did not have the strength .
this wound is grievous .
i fear it will be the death of me .
dont talk now , i cautioned .
you will need to rest if you want to get better .
i must leave you here with molli , my maid , so i can get the doctor .
he slowly shook his head .
even that motion took considerable energy to accomplish .
no doctors .
no one must know that i am here .
well the only doctor in town isnt very good , but i fear for your life if you do not receive aid .
thats not important .
i need to write a note for kalam .
you must deliver it to him !
i went to my desk and put my dagger down .
i quickly gathered a pen and a scrap of paper .
i brought it to tai , who began writing earnestly with short , cribbed letters .
his hands shook .
i was amazed he had the strength to finish .
when tai was done , he handed the note to me .
he then closed his eyes , let out a long sigh and died without a further word .
i stood there , shaking my head in disbelief .
i was getting wrapped up in something that i did not want to be part of .
slowly , i opened the note and found that i could not read it .
it was written in some unknown language , using unfamiliar characters .
perhaps it was coded in some manner that only kalam could read .
my thoughts were interrupted by someone pounding on the front door .
i took the note and tucked it into a fold in my sleeve .
leaving my bedroom , i went out to the lobby and listened .
from the sounds coming outside , it sounded as if a mob was trying to batter their way in .
since that was no way to treat my home , i angrily strode over and jerked open the door .
as soon as i did this , a pile of five mujadeen soldiers came crashing through , giving me little time to dodge .
good evening , a voice said .
or should i say good morning ?
it was rasid .
he was standing at the door , looking amused by the clumsiness of his men .
but there was nothing amusing by the pistol held in his hand .
it was pointed straight at me .
the dark opening of the barrel reminded me of the blackness of death .
one twitch of his finger and i would be finished .
i wondered why rasid was here .
i had thought that he had left the city .
come in , i said weakly .
the sub vizier strode imperiously into the lobby with his sergeant .
but of more interest was who followed .
it was hussen .
he grinned malevolently at me , his previous meekness replaced by an arrogance i had never encountered before .
on second thought such emotion was always there , but just barely concealed behind a clever mask .
sergeant , rasid commanded , i want this place searched from top to bottom .
you will tear this place apart until that rebel spy is found .
as he spoke , the gun in his hand never wavered from me .
who are you looking for ?
i demanded as the soldiers scattered to look through the hotel .
only rasid , hussen , and the sergeant remained .
rasid spat out , you know who we are looking for .
hes a guest of yours .
i gave in before my hotel was damaged .
look , i can save you the time .
hes in my bedroom back there .
i pointed to the door behind the front desk .
but im afraid he wont be any use to you .
and why is that ?
hussen snarled .
because he is dead , i replied simply , hoping this would put an end to the matter .
sergeant , go take a look .
the sub vizier commanded .
we waited in silence while the sergeant went behind the desk and into my bedroom .
hussen glared at me , the black eyes filled with hate .
perhaps he wanted vengeance for my past actions .
rasids expression remained unfathomable .
the sergeant returned quickly , shaking his head .
it is as he said .
the rebel is dead .
your man should not have shot him , rasid said coldly .
he was supposed to be taken alive .
now i will never get any information out of him !
with a shrug , the sergeant said , it is allahs will .
my own troubles were cast aside when i heard molli scream .
she had been discovered in the kitchen .
i could only pray that she would remain unharmed .
knowing the manners of these soldiers , i doubted it .
my fears were soon realized when she was dragged , kicking and fighting , into the lobby .
the soldiers all gathered around in a loose circle , their eyes shiny with anticipation .
my stomach felt sick , knowing what was going to happen next .
but i was helpless to stop the proceedings unless i wanted to be shot by that unwavering pistol in rasids hand .
she knows nothing , i protested , but my words fell on deaf ears .
rasid was going to let his men have their fun .
it was his way of paying them back for working far into the night .
they started shoving molli around , making her fall to the ground , only to be picked up again to repeat the process .
her nightgown was quickly torn open , exposing the skin underneath .
the sight seemed to inflame the soldiers lust even further .
soon blood was running from her knees , and her hair was wildly disarrayed .
she was sobbing , but her entreaties went ignored .
stop ! ''
i yelled .
rasid made a motion with his hand .
the assault upon molli immediately stopped .
she fell to the ground , nearly senseless with pain and shock , only to huddle like a wounded animal .
he then said , so , mikel , how could you become involved with the rebels ?
i thought you were my friend . ''
i am not involved with them , '' i protested .
i just provided a room for this tai .
i did not know who he was or what he was doing .
he gave a little laugh .
i have no reason to believe you .
weve been looking for a cell in this town .
little did we know that is was you here at the hotel .
what a perfect place !
the rebels could come and go without being noticed , mixing in with the travelers . ''
hussen said , perhaps mikel here can tell us what the rebels know of the project .
what project ?
what do you mean ?
i asked , wondering what the hell they were talking about .
rasid stared at me , his expression hard and calculating .
very well , hussen , proceed with your questioning .
but make sure not to kill him right away .
the warlord will be displeased if we do not ferret out everything he knows .
the sergeant grabbed me by the arms and tried to hold me .
hussen took this chance and struck me hard in the face .
i had been content to let the situation go , hoping they would realize i really had nothing to do with the rebels .
but rasid appeared to be worried for his own head .
he would kill me if it meant saving his own life .
ever since i was a small boy , i had been warned to keep my temper in check because i have always been quick to anger .
it was only through self control that i kept my more violent emotions at bay .
now i let them go .
my vision receded into a red haze .
i felt my skin crawl with rage .
even with rasids pistol trained on me , i didnt care .
if i was going to die , let it be said that i died with honor .
i easily shook myself free of the skinny sergeant , and then , swinging around , struck him in the head with my fist .
he went sprawling against the wall with a mighty bone splintering crash .
for the traitor hussen , i grabbed him by the neck and squeezed .
his eyes went wide with shock .
i then swung him bodily into the front desk .
the ancient wood cracked as his body hit with a frightful impact .
he fell to the ground with a scream of agony .
turning my attention to rasid , i saw that he had not moved .
his face remained impassive , but that infernal gun was still pointing at me .
i took a step towards him , my hands stretched out to grab that thick throat .
no one can beat the bullet , he said with a sneer .
not caring , i took another step .
with a flick of his wrist , rasid fired .
i tried to hopelessly dodge .
the bullet hummed by my ear , striking the wall next to me .
not another step , he hissed .
i dont want to kill you .
at least not yet .
you still have to answer my questions .
before i could do anything else , a blow struck me in the back of the head .
the entire world began to spin and my vision began to fade .
another blow and i was down on my knees .
ill never know who hit me , but they ended up saving my life .
now i couldnt rush rasid and take that blasted gun away from him .
as my consciousness faded away , i felt my body go limp and hit the floor .
it seemed like i was only out for a second .
the heat was intense .
my body ached worse than my head .
i felt myself sliding across the floor like a sack of potatoes .
with every ounce of my faded strength , i opened my eyes .
it took me a moment to realize i was surrounded by fire .
the smoke above was thick and grey .
i closed my eyes again , wondering if i had descended into hell .
now in a panic , i opened my eyes once again and pulled my head off of the floor to see who was pulling me .
the energy to do to this nearly made me pass out .
i saw kalam , his expression grim .
i swam into the darkness again and the world became nothing .
chapter 5 i awoke to find myself shivering from cold .
a rag was draped over my forehead , the frigid water dripping down my hairline .
my body was a knot of pain .
with a sickening lurch , i remembered everything that had recently happened .
i felt numb , wondering what happened to molli .
i was lying down on my side , and when i blinked open my eyes , i saw a lit oil lamp next to me .
along the walls were tidily stacked wooden barrels of beer .
i immediately recognized that i was in kalam 's cellar .
kalam !
i croaked out .
where are you ?
i am here , i heard him reply from the other side of the room .
his whiskered face was soon close to mine .
he stared at me with concern .
what happened ?
i asked with a whisper .
he shook his head .
i am sorry .
you should not have been involved in this .
perhaps tai should have stayed with me , but i thought it too dangerous .
if he and i ever became connected , then i would have lost everything that took so many years to build .
his cover as a traveler apparently did not suffice .
still weak , i managed to snarl , it was that bastard hussen who saw through that .
but where is molli ?
how did i get here ?
he hesitated before speaking .
his eyes betrayed regret .
i 'm afraid that molli is dead .
i felt a stab of grief that was deeper than expected .
perhaps i had loved her more than i cared to admit .
kalam continued , when i entered the hotel , i saw that she had been stabbed in the heart .
i found you there , badly beaten .
it was a miracle that you were still alive .
your hotel was set on fire and you were left inside to burn .
rasid and his men rode off , thinking you were going to die in the blaze .
i managed to get in and rescue you before you succumbed to the flames .
my hotel is gone ?
i asked , feeling sick to my stomach .
i am sorry .
i knew what it meant to you .
it was my home , but now it was gone .
a dull throb of anger , mixed with sorrow , beat slowly in my heart .
what am i to do now ?
i asked out loud , not expecting any real answer .
my old way of life was forever gone .
he said , im afraid you can not stay here too much longer .
it is too dangerous for you to stay .
i felt my chest tighten with anger .
i asked sarcastically , why does your safety matter to me ?
you have n't lost anything like i have . ''
he shrugged , dismissing my accusation .
i personally do not matter , but my work does . ''
hold on , i protested .
what is this all about ?
you cant just throw me out of your house without telling me why .
kalam lifted a hand to quell my protest .
he said , do n't worry , i am not going to set you free to wander the countryside until you are found alive when you should be dead .
first you must take a minute to rest and gain back your strength .
then you must leave and travel across the wasteland , since it is the only place that you will be safe from the mujadeen .
the wasteland ?
no one goes there !
he shook his head .
there is much that you do not know .
others have crossed the wasteland before and will do it again .
i should know since i have done it myself , thought it has been many years since i made the journey .
i looked at him in surprise .
thats impossible .
there is nothing on the other side .
the wasteland goes on forever until it hits the sea .
he shook his head .
in the wasteland there is a mountain range that protects the rebels .
and there , free men continue to fight the mujadeen .
i am one of those men .
i was placed here many years ago to provide assistance to those who work for the rebellion .
you must go there since you are no longer safe here .
if you are seen in ewark again , then you will surely be killed .
these unexpected revelations made my head spin .
i could not believe what i was hearing .
i said accusingly , you have been here since my fathers days .
exactly how long has this rebellion of yours been going on ?
kalam smiled weakly .
for over a hundred years , we 've been fighting the mujadeen .
we will win someday .
i was shocked by this information , but i somehow believed it .
kalam had never lied to me before .
and you still fight on after all these years ?
to what end ?
we have no choice .
we shall keep fighting on until we are destroyed or the warlord and his minions are evicted from this land .
there is no other choice but to win .
i dont understand , was all that i could say .
he sighed .
there was a time before the coming of the mujadeen .
there was a time when all the men of this land were free .
back then the ancients built a society greater than any that had ever come before .
but like all things made by man , it did not survive the test of time .
the men grew weak and the society crumbled like dust , faction fighting faction .
when everything failed , the land was destroyed by a great war .
what men were left from this disaster could not resist the hordes of the very first warlord .
the remaining free men were pushed into the wasteland where they almost perished .
there , they eventually found the safety of the mountains and learned to survive .
it was a hard existence , but now we are now stronger .
we will soon be ready to make our move against the mujadeen . ''
this new information was coming too fast .
i finally asked , tell me , what was tai doing here ?
he is a scout .
his job was to investigate a mysterious operation of the warlord , as directed by that sub vizier rasid .
some six miles from here , they are digging something up .
i sent a message back to my home , requesting they send someone with more technical knowledge than i have .
tai was supposed to examine the area and make a report of his findings .
he knows much about technology from the old days .
it is thought that the mujadeen have found a weapon from then .
reaching into my sleeve , i pulled out the note that tai had written .
i handed it over to kalam .
he looked at it , his eyes wide with astonishment .
what does it say ?
i asked .
i do not know , he replied with a shake of his head .
it is written in code that i do not know .
it is written in the language of the ancients , reserved for the most important of information .
only the scouts and the council can read it .
the council ?
unlike here , we are not ruled by one man .
we vote to place men into the council .
there they represent us and make the important decisions .
it was the way of the ancients , so it is our way too .
then this information must be truly important .
it must be , kalam agreed .
tai paid for this with his life .
this message must be delivered to the council at all costs .
i leave that task to you .
i was too shocked to immediately respond .
after a deep breath , i finally said , but why me ?
i do not know the way .
besides , i am no adventurer .
you dont have much of choice , do you ?
i am far too old to travel and must stay here to continue my work as a spy .
whether you accept it or not , mikel , you are now a rebel like me .
you may not like that fact , but there it is .
while i gather some supplies , i suggest you rest .
where you are going , you will need it .
before he could leave , i asked , you said the rebels have a place in the mountains .
what is it like ? ''
kalams eyes lit with the memory .
it 's a wonderful place , completely unlike this desert .
imagine towering rocks , pine trees , streams , and cool green grass .
it 's been a long time since i 've been home , so the place is only a dream to me now .
but you will certainly like it , if you get there . ''
chapter 6 the horse i was given was an old brown haired nag that had seen better days .
but at least her gait across the desert was smooth which helped the pain of my bruised and battered body .
except for the drum of the hoof and the canteen clattering against the belt that held my sword , it was quiet .
the bags , rolled blanket and bow hanging behind me were cinched uncomfortably close against the saddle .
i will freely admit that im no horseman since i rarely needed to rely on their service when living in ewark .
i was also no warrior .
i never had a need for weapons when i could depend on my own brute strength to handle any trouble .
the setting moon was full , making strange , long shadows over the desert land .
i cast a glance over my shoulder , where against the eastern horizon i could still just see the glow of my burning hotel .
i had never left home before .
it felt wrong to leave ewark on this fools errand , but what other choice did i have ?
if i stayed , i would be eventually discovered and killed by the mujadeen .
i could flee north to some other city , but i feared that rasids reach was long .
there was no safety here .
kalam had given me this horse , some water , a bedroll , and enough food to see me through for the next few days .
the coded note of tai was hidden inside an inner pocket of my jacket .
kalam had also given me directions to this rebel town , along with a roughly drawn map .
according to his instructions , i was to go around lake supri where i would then enter into the wasteland .
from there , after some traveling , i was to find an entrance to a low , rocky valley where a river once flowed .
the valley pointed to the mountains of the rebels like a long dagger .
it would be a matter of traveling through the valley and on to the mountains beyond .
the journey seemed easy enough , provided the mutans would let me pass .
the advice i received from kalam for dealing with mutans was simple and direct .
if you see a mutan , run or hide since they have a strong taste for the flesh of man .
there is no reasoning with them , so dont stop to try .
traveling by horse , you should be able to make it through the valley in one night the mutans can not abide the world without the sun .
it is best to stay out of the city ruins , since they are more numerous there .
stay close to the southern wall , where there is a trail .
you should be safe enough , provided you use those wits of yours .
the mutans were creatures of legend the sort of nightmare used to scare little children .
i had never seen one myself , but the many stories by the travelers that stayed at my hotel told of a ferocious manlike creature that killed for pleasure .
the few traders that dared to explore the depths of the wasteland were never seen again .
what chance did i have ?
i shook my head at the thought , wondering how fate had put me in such a dire position .
i had no choice but to make the best of it .
i rode for another hour or so , the sound of the desert unbroken except by my passing .
i thought of molli and how unfair it was that she had died .
i also thought of my mother and father , and how disappointed they would be with me .
was i doomed to live in poverty and squalor , all because of a misunderstanding with the mujadeen ?
i still wanted no part of this so called rebellion and cursed kalam for involving me .
if only i had refused that room to tai !
my passing thoughts were broken by the neigh of my horse .
i leaned over and petted her neck , trying to quiet the old girl down .
perhaps she sensed some danger that i did not .
i looked ahead but saw nothing .
however , my sense of ease quickly disappeared once i heard from behind the galloping of an unknown number of horses .
everyone knew that the mujadeen patrolled this area to protect us from the denizens of the wasteland .
if i was caught by the soldiers , then there would surely be questions that i could not answer .
i kicked the flank of the mare , and she bolted ahead .
i really had no idea how long my horse would last since she was nothing but an old nag .
to my surprise , our speed was considerable because it took whatever limited skills i had to stay on her back .
my hands held tightly to the bridle while my aching thighs stayed cinched around the sides of her heaving flanks .
we rode this way over the deserted plain while all along i had no idea how close our pursuers were .
i was too afraid to turn and look since i would have lost my balance .
ahead , i could just make out a long dark shadow that stretched the length of the horizon .
was that lake supri ?
it had better be , or i was going to end up being caught .
suddenly , in the limited light of the moon , i saw an arrow fly by and strike the sand ahead .
without even thinking , i turned my head to look at my pursuers .
i barealy stayed on my mount .
some hundred yards away , there were at least a dozen of men on horseback , their steeds pressed forward in chase .
to my horror , the mujadeen soldiers were quickly gaining , stirring up a streaming trail of dust as they went .
leaning forward , i kicked hard against the flanks of my poor horse .
she responded with another burst of speed , but i could tell the old girl was beginning to tire the once sure footing was becoming clumsy , and her breathing was now ragged with exhaustion .
she wasnt going to last much longer at this rate .
behind me , the sun was starting to rise .
all through the night , i had been heading roughly southwest , hoping to strike the very edge of the lake .
and there it was , right in front of me .
it only a few hundred yards away .
beyond this body of water was the lifeless wasteland .
my horse stumbled and then slowed to a canter .
another arrow sped past me , followed by another half dozen .
they all missed and plowed into the sand ahead .
i looked over my shoulder once again and found that my pursuers ' speed had also slackened .
they were only fifty yards behind me , but to my surprise they were looking at another horseman , galloping towards them from the right .
it was a man dressed in a long black robe , riding an equally black horse .
his hands were waving in the air , as if motioning the soldiers to stop .
to my surprise , the pursuers slowed their pace .
i hit the edge of the lake , the sun above shimmering on the still blue water .
another glance showed me that the mujadeen soldiers had stopped .
one was talking to the robed stranger , while the others watched as i rode to the waters edge .
there i let my horse slow and walk along the pebble strewn shoreline .
i continued to glance at the soldiers , wondering why they did not press their attack .
my horse was too tired to continue , so i was forced to stop and dismount .
keeping a wary eye on my would be pursuers , i let the mare drink from the lake .
she was in a lather , so with an old rag , i began to wipe her down .
while i was doing this , the soldiers wheeled their mounts around and began slowly riding away .
the rider in black stared at me momentarily , his features indistinct because of the distance , before following the others .
i was mystified by this behavior since i was still within bow range .
why didnt they strike me down while they had the chance ?
i let the horse rest .
she continued to drink from the lake and then ate some of the yellow grass growing along the shoreline .
i sat , slumped in the sand , watching the small waves of the water .
the rising sun beat against my shoulders .
im afraid to say that i fell asleep .
the pain and shock of the night had been too much .
there was no energy left to continue on .
chapter 7 i awoke to find the sun blazing overheard , scorching the sand around me without mercy .
from its position , i could tell it was some time in the mid afternoon .
my face felt red and raw from exposure .
my throat was also aching with thirst , so i took a long drink from my canteen .
i chided myself for foolishly falling asleep since i had lost valuable traveling time .
the mare was near the shore of the lake , her head drooping drowsily .
my body ached as i got up to see her .
i gently rubbed her nose .
she whinnied in appreciation , rocking her head back and forth .
youre a good horse , i said soothingly .
im only alive because of you .
i then filled my canteen from the lake .
i pulled myself onto the mare and gently prodded her forward at an easy pace .
from my perch on the saddle , i could finally see the wasteland in more detail .
though at first it looked like any other desert , it was different in minute ways .
unlike the land i had just traversed , there was no life at all not a single bird flew in the sky and the ground was free of the occasional lizard or snake .
it was also free of vegetation , without a single cactus or joshua tree to be seen .
as i rode along , i found that the wasteland was also deathly quiet with only the wind and my horse breaking the oppressive silence .
it felt if i had entered into a graveyard .
even with the heat of the baking sun , i shivered from an unknown fear .
the nightmare stories of this place had suddenly become very real .
shaking off this bad feeling , i pulled out the map that kalam had provided me .
by the looks of it , i had to head north west to hit the opening of the valley .
if i headed too far north , i would miss the entrance all together and run into the walls of the valley , but if i strayed too far to the west , i would be lost in the desert .
sadly my only compass was the sun above .
kalam had warned me that it was dangerous to descend into the valley using the walls , so i had to find the entrance .
the sides of the valley were steep and treacherous , which made them impassable for horse and man alike .
traveling across the length of the desert was also impossible since not enough water could be carried to supply a man and a horse .
there was fresh water somewhere deep in the valley , so that was the only route i could take .
i rode on for some time as the sun slowly dropped in the west , burning bright in my eyes .
as night came , the northern star became my only navigation .
having already rested for the day , i continued on through the chill of the night .
living in the desert had long immunized me to the rapid temperature difference between night and day , but i still wished i had brought along something warmer to wear .
as the leftover heat of the sun dissipated from the sand , i ended up using my wool blanket to cover my head and body .
riding in the silence of the desert is an unsettling experience .
beyond the sound of the horse hooves striking sand and the squeak of my saddle , there was nothing .
i felt like a sailor lost at sea alone and forgotten by the rest of the world .
the unchanging rhythm and noise started to lull me to sleep , causing my eyes to droop with weariness .
i soon found myself sleeping several times , each moment of unconsciousness broken by my head slumping forward , hitting the mane of the horse .
too tired to continue , i finally slid off the horse and fell into a heap on the cool desert floor .
i went to sleep .
feeling something warm nuzzle my ear , i awoke with a start .
it was the mare , her brown eyes looking into mine .
the sun was now high above , turning the ground into a furnace once again .
getting up , i drank some water , sharing this meager resource with my horse .
after a quick breakfast of jerked meat , i was up on the saddle again , looking for any signs of the valley entrance .
i do n't know what caused me to look over my shoulder perhaps it was the nature of the wasteland that made one cautious but in the shimmering waves of the desert floor , i thought i saw a dark figure riding behind me .
it looked like the stranger who had stopped the soldiers from pursuing me .
pulling on the reins , i halted my own mare to take a better look at the man .
this time i did n't see anything since the distortion of the heat across the sand made everything look like a waving black ocean .
but i still could n't shake the thought that i was being followed .
however , as i rode along and checked over my shoulder , i never saw that figure appear again .
it was some hours later that i noticed a black smudge on the horizon ahead , slightly to the left of my intended direction .
as i continued , i recognized this blackness as smoke rolling high into the sky .
something large was burning .
i started to ride that way .
perhaps it was loneliness or just idle curiosity , but i foolishly decided to investigate the cause of the fire .
it would have been better if i had minded my own business .
the expanse of the smoke grew larger with each stride of my mare .
as we came closer to the source , i slowed her down to a walk .
there was no reason to be incautious in the wasteland since this could be a mutan trap or some other unnatural phenomenon .
there was a ridge ahead , the smoke billowing from behind .
along this ridge were several footprints and indentations in the sand where a large group had laid in wait .
i dismounted from my mare and then cautiously made my way across the burning sand .
upon closer inspection , the footprints here were oddly shaped .
they certainly looked like no animal i had ever seen .
they were much like the foot of a man , but very narrow .
the toes had also left long scratches in the sand , indicating some sort of claw .
that disturbing sight was soon forgotten when i looked over the ridge .
below was a line of a dozen burning wagons .
with their voluminous cargo space , they looked like the sort of wagons used by the traders .
there were no signs of their owners or even the horses that once pulled them .
the goods that were once were inside has been scattered across the desert floor .
i gulped nervously as a tingle of fear crawled down my spine .
it looked as if the mutans had attacked this caravan , but what had happened to the people and the horses ?
i decided it was best to move on before i was discovered .
i ran to my horse and practically leaped onto the saddle .
grabbing the bridle , i kicked her flanks and off we went at a gallop .
looking behind , i saw nothing to warrant my haste , but the feeling of fear still stayed with me .
i really was expecting too much out of this poor beast , so i grudgingly decided to slow her down to a canter .
to my right , i saw a little gully that dipped below the desert floor .
since there were no signs of any tracks , i decided to take this way as a precaution to remain unseen by any potential observer .
feeling smug with my decision , i had only ridden ten feet into the gully when suddenly , in front of me , the sand exploded .
there was no chance to react , and before i knew it , a hidden net was lifted from the ground .
it wrapped over the mare and me , immobilizing us from any further movement forward .
my horse neighed in terror , and started to kick and buck .
with the mesh of the net covering my face , my own panic was beginning to rise .
i rolled off to my side , freeing myself from the saddle and stirrups .
falling through the open side of the net , i find myself lying on my face in the gulley bottom , free of the trap that had been sprung .
i jumped to my feet , where my eyes were greeted by a horde of vicious creatures rushing at me .
everything was moving too quickly .
i had little time to examine these mutan features , but the wicked black blades were enough for me to decide my next move .
with a tug , the unfamiliar sword was ripped from the scabbard hanging from my belt .
i clumsily swung the blade down on the closest beast , splitting its misshapen skull in two .
the blood that came out was as black as night .
but that killing did nothing to stop the other mutans from continuing their attack on me .
i swung at another and my blade struck home , but i never saw if i had killed the foul creature because i was now overwhelmed by their sheer numbers .
before i could do anything else , i was tripped and soon covered by a mass of bodies .
they had a fetid stench which was worse than ewark 's trash pit .
but i still fought , trying to leverage my strength against their superior numbers .
but there was nothing i could do and soon a blow to my head stopped my struggle .
i passed out .
chapter 8 through a pain filled haze , i awoke with a start , wishing my head would stop being used as the receiving end of everyones frustrations .
my wrists hurt , and my hands felt numb .
i peeled my eyes open they were sticky with sweat and sand to find myself looking at a fire blackened skull close to my face .
the eyeless sockets stared at me accusingly as if i was guilty for its predicament .
the sick smell of a burnt breakfast was thick in the air .
i felt the bile rise in my throat .
looking blurrily around my surroundings , i found that i was tied to a rusty metal pole with my arms hanging above my head .
below me was a pit that contained nothing but ashes .
craning my neck to the left and right , i saw that the pit was some twenty feet long with five tall poles like mine .
on each pole there was the remnant of something that was once human , but was now only burned scraps of bone and flesh .
my stomach recoiled in revulsion when i realized these people had been eaten from the foot on up .
i struggled against my bonds without effect .
i finally looked up and saw three mutans sitting in the sand in front of the pit .
i now had a chance to study them , but the extra detail did little to help my quaking heart .
they were hideous creatures with coarse but hairless grey skin , black eyes and malformed faces that almost looked human but were grotesque to the extreme the noses were only slits , while the mouths were lipless , revealing rows of pointed yellow teeth .
they were short in stature , like a boy of twelve summers .
they had no clothing except for a roughly made belt to hold their sword and a quiver of arrows .
their short bows were lying in the sand .
i wondered what perversion of allahs will allowed such evil things to exist .
the mutans were talking in some garbled language to each other , but that stopped once they notice my struggles .
with barking laughs , they got up and approached the pit with swords drawn .
one stepped closer , his mouth spreading to a wicked smile that was nothing but a wall of rotted teeth .
with a flick of a wrist , his blade tucked in under my chin .
i could feel the sharp tip jabbing into my windpipe .
i croaked in protest , but was careful not to move .
the blade then dug in deeper , allowing a trickle of blood to escape , before it was mercifully dropped .
i let out a gasp of relief .
please , i pleaded , dont kill me .
they cackled at my appeals .
the ringleader was goaded on by this cruel laughter , and this time his sword sliced through my tunic and into the flesh underneath .
gritting my teeth , i felt hot blood began to drip down my chest and past my stomach .
my head beat hard with pain , swimming red with color .
once again , the mutan thankfully pulled his sword away .
i breathed hard as rivulets of sweat dripped off my forehead .
stop , i screamed .
this only brought more laughter from my tormenters .
but instead of using the sword , the mutan in front of me began motioning with his hands .
through my pain wracked vision , it appeared that he was miming the making of fire .
it suddenly dawned on me that they aimed to cook me like the other poor victims of that caravan .
i shook my head , fearing the dreadful pain of the fire licking against my feet and legs .
i knew it would hurt worse than anything i had ever experienced before .
one of the other mutans dug into the ground behind him .
a large basket was soon uncovered , revealing a coal like substance .
with the help of his friends , they began ferrying the contents into the pit under my legs .
i could do nothing but watch and scream , fearing the moment they would set me on fire .
even though no one could help , i began praying for allahs divine intervention .
no one came .
a tinderbox was produced .
a few scrapes of flint later , and a mutan had a cheery blaze going on a scrap of wood .
sheltering the tiny flame with his hand , he walked over to the pit and then set the black fuel on fire .
looking down , i could see the little fire spread .
the minute heat was already heating my booted feet to an uncomfortable degree .
to the delight of the mutan , i started screaming again , this time swearing at my tormenters .
the flames quickly spread , heating my feet and legs with a hot , piercing tongue of pain that ran the length of my body .
i began to moan and cry in agony .
tears welled in my eyes , but through the blurriness , i saw one of the mutans suddenly collapse to the ground , clutching his neck with a frightful shout .
fighting the intolerable pain , i managed to open my eyes to look again .
another one immediately fell , an arrow sticking out of the bare back .
the remaining creature ran for his bow , but it was too late .
an arrow struck the leg , causing the mutan to fall to the ground with an unworldly cry .
that was all i saw before i had to shut my eyes again and scream from the pain caused by the licking flames .
when i was able to open my eyes again , i saw a lithe figure standing over the wounded mutan .
it was a girl .
she took out a knife and neatly cut the creatures throat .
help me !
i called out before i let out another scream of pain .
suddenly the intensity of the fire began to abate .
opening my eyes , i saw her standing in front of me , kicking the burning coal to the other side of the pit .
even through my pain induced fog , i saw that she was a pretty thing with short cropped hair , narrow cheekbones , a thin , girl like body , and flawless ebony skin .
her clothing was simple a tunic and a pair of pants that were almost the same color as sand .
i soon felt my bonds part and i fell forward into the ground .
the heat of the sand felt cool against my face compared to the burning fire i had just experienced .
you need water , she said bluntly .
her voice was rougher than her beauty , but i was in no mood to debate the merits of either .
turning over , i saw her bending over me , her face expressionless .
those eyes were as blue as the sky .
who are you ?
i asked with ragged breaths , needing to know the name of my savior .
my name is suvan , she replied simply .
i am mikel , i gasped .
without a further word , she took a water skin from her belt and handed it to me .
with shaking hands , i removed the stopper and took a drink of the warm leathery water .
it felt wonderful .
do you think you can walk ?
she asked , casting a glance over her shoulder .
i do n't know .
my feet hurt so badly .
there was little sympathy in her voice when she replied .
you had better try .
it wo n't be that much longer before their friends come back .
i do not want to be here when that happens .
i have a horse , i said .
it would be easier if i could ride .
she shook her head .
im afraid it is already dead .
the mutan hate horses even more than men and kill them on sight .
but come , weve wasted enough time on talk .
now is the time to move .
she helped me up to the ground , her grip surprisingly strong for such a thin body .
i was soon stumbling alongside her , each step bringing a new wave of pain .
already i felt dizzy from exhaustion and i wondered how much longer i could go on .
i saw that we were taking a well trodden path that was already heavy with the tracks of the mutan .
why are we going this way ?
i asked irritably .
we are going to run into a whole pack of those foul creatures .
she sighed with exasperation .
if we went straight across a fresh part of the desert , then our tracks would be obvious .
this way we can confuse any followers .
very clever , i admitted .
but how do you know so much about their ways ?
you talk too much , she replied impatiently .
now stay quiet until we are safe .
its not too much further , and then i can answer your questions .
we soon reached a flat , rocky outcropping and turned off the path .
suvan stepped onto the stony surface , motioning me to follow .
the hard surface of the rock was too much for my feet compared the softness of the sand .
every step was pure agony .
suvan reached the end of the stony surface and dropped back down to the desert floor .
i did the same , the jolt of pain making me grunt .
it was shady here against the surface of the rock , so i sat down , thankfully taking the weight off of my feet .
i was about to take off my boots , when suvan gently grabbed my shoulder .
she said , i know it hurts , but you will have to wait just a little longer .
i want to wait until darkness comes before we move again .
until then , it is better that we remain prepared .
you wouldnt want to run from the mutan in your bare feet .
youre full of wisdom , i retorted harshly .
exactly who are you , and why are you here ?
ignoring my sharp words , she said , i did not choose to live here .
i had no choice in the matter .
suddenly feeling foolish over my childish outburst , i said , then why are you here ?
she was still looking over the edge of the rock , presumably checking if we had remained hidden from any potential pursuers .
suddenly , she dropped down to her haunches and sat next to me .
she kept her voice low as she started to tell me her story .
my father was named aseik , and he was a well known scout for the traders .
with the use of their crumbling maps , he found many of the lost cities , earning a fee from the merchants .
it is dangerous work since he had to visit uncivilized parts , far from the safety of the mujadeen guarded roads .
in turn , these traders took the risk of scavenging the cities for the valuables contained within .
but the number of new cities being discovered has now dwindled to zero .
and with that came the decline in trade .
the traders are still looking for new sources of wealth , hoping some large cache will refill their coffers .
so your father came to the wasteland ?
i asked .
she nodded .
there have always been rumors of a great city lying in the sands of the wasteland .
my father and i came to investigate for ourselves , thinking the stories were untrue , but still worth the risk .
a discovery of a large city would have filled our coffers for a long time .
but why did he bring you ?
she smiled wanly .
my mother died when i was very young .
ive worked with my father ever since .
anyway , scouts always work better in pairs .
we came to the wasteland and had much trouble with the mutans .
by luck , we found an entrance to a valley that led to an undiscovered city .
except for the work of the mutans , it has been untouched by man .
there is a wealth of treasure inside that could make someone rich .
taking the map from my sleeve , i showed it to her .
is this where you went ?
i asked .
her eyes widened with amazement .
how did you come across this ?
it was drawn for me by someone who has already traveled through the valley .
i am trying to reach the other side where the mountains are .
it is a dangerous trip .
what is your reason for making it ?
she asked .
i did not wish to tell her of the note i was carrying , so i decided to tell a half truth .
im afraid im an outlaw on the run from the mujadeen .
if i am captured , they will kill me .
she gave a start at this bit of information , looking suspiciously at me like i was about to attack her .
i gave her an easy smile .
its nothing like that just a little misunderstanding .
ive heard that free men live safely inside the vast tracts of the wasteland .
i was told i can reach them by going through the valley and on to the mountains beyond .
suvan looked intently at me .
the valley is dangerous .
im surprised you were told to go that way .
it will mean your certain death .
there doesnt seem to be a safe place anywhere in this damn land .
but im afraid i dont have much choice .
she frowned as if reminded of a bad memory .
my father died in the valley .
we were coming back from the city when we were ambushed by the mutans .
there were too many of them to fight .
i was able to escape , but my father died under a hail of mutan arrows .
ive been living in the wasteland ever since , waging my own war against those evil beasts .
is that why you rescued me ?
when i saw the smoke of the burning caravan , i came to rescue anyone who survived .
you were lucky that i arrived in time , unlike the others who filled the bellies of the mutan .
i said gratefully , i too was drawn to the smoke , but fell into a trap .
i am glad that you found me in time .
tell me , will you be willing to lead me to the valley entrance ?
im afraid that i am lost .
looking up at the darkening sky , she said , the sun is setting soon .
that will buy us some safety .
i can take you to the entrance of the valley , but you will die if you go into that cursed place .
chapter 9 with suvan taking the lead , we traveled by night .
she walked through the sand in a careful but confident manner , using the stars to guide us .
with the setting of the sun , the temperature had dropped , making me wish i had n't lost my provisions and blanket .
my feet were still bothering me , but the pain was now dull instead of the relentless throb it once was .
with suvan here , my prospects of surviving this journey were looking better .
it was a stroke of luck that i hoped meant that better days were coming .
arent you worried about running into a mutan ?
i asked in a whisper as we came to the crest of a dune .
she snorted .
they are afraid of the dark .
they return to their camp to huddle around their fires like little children .
perhaps they do not see so well at night .
of course there are plenty of other dangers beyond the mutans .
it is best to always stay on your toes .
like what sort of dangers ?
i asked .
the mutans were bad enough .
in the darkness i could just make out a shrug .
there is something strange about this land something alien and forbidding .
it breeds evil .
down in the valley , ive seen plants that eat flesh .
i have also seen unholy creatures that inhabit the darkest corners of the ruined city .
ive traveled to many lands with my father , but in all my years i have never seen anything like this accursed place .
neither have i .
after a few more hours of walking , dark menacing clouds began blanketing the sky .
at the sight of these , suvan motioned us to stop .
she then began digging with big sweeping motions into the sand with her bare hands .
come help me , she demanded .
what are we doing ?
making a place to rest during the day .
we will need to stay out of the sun and also remain undiscovered from the mutan scouts .
i would like to go further , but with that rain coming , i would prefer to stay dry .
you also need to take those boots off and tend to your burns before they become infected .
at her direction , we dug a pit two feet deep and approximately the length of my height .
from her knapsack , she brought out a sand colored tarp which we stretched over the hole .
four long stakes were then driven into each of the corners , keeping the tarp flat against the desert floor .
it started to rain , the water coming down with heavy drops .
suvan then crawled in , carrying her pack with .
come in out of the rain and take off those boots , she said , her voice muffled by the sand and tarp .
with a shrug , i slid inside .
it was dark in there .
as i was taking off my boots , she was busy fidgeting with something from her knapsack .
there was suddenly a spark , and a little flame flickered from a stub of a candle .
she said , this rain will be good since it will cover our tracks .
now sit back and let me take a look at your feet .
i did as she requested , feeling self conscious from her attention .
with a yank that sent pain shooting up my legs , suvan slid off my socks and pulled back my pant legs .
she let out a low whistle .
what is it ?
i asked .
she replied with concern , your feet and legs are terribly blistered .
there is n't much that i can do about it right now .
you had better get some sleep , but keep your feet out in the open air .
it 's the only way they will heal .
my stomach audibly grumbled .
suvan laughed and dug into her knapsack .
here , she said , handing me small , thin strips of jerked meat .
i started eating it , but found that the taste was rather different .
what is it ?
i asked between bites .
not many animals live out here in the desert .
its lizard that i just killed the other day .
i made a face , but my belly didnt care .
after i had finished with this small meal , i took a swig from her water skin .
suvan put out the lamp .
i then shut my eyes and tried to sleep , all the while aware of the young woman lying next to me .
the rain outside increased its intensity , drowning out any other noise .
rolling to my side , i put my back to her , hoping she did not feel uncomfortable sharing this tight space with a total stranger .
to my surprise , she draped her arm around my waist .
her hand soon found a way under my shirt where the fingers began playfully rubbing against my stomach .
it was a pleasant sensation , but i still felt acutely uncomfortable .
turning over to face her , i whispered , i thought you said that i needed to get some sleep .
she kissed me gently on the lips , making me pull back a few inches .
ive been very lonely out here , she whispered back huskily .
it was hard to turn down such an obvious invitation .
i can understand that , i replied softly , kissing her back .
her lips were cool and remote .
tell me , have you been with many other women ?
i replied , what kind of question is that in a time like this ?
due to her proximity , i could feel her shrink back .
ive never been with anyone before .
ive never had the chance before now .
a tremble started at her shoulders and went the length of her body .
i put my arms around suvan .
she did not resist .
i said gently , a few years ago , there was a woman who meant a lot to me .
i was thinking of poor molli .
but shes dead now .
there have been no others ?
im not that old , i replied .
when i was just a teenager , both of my parents died from an unknown disease that ravaged the town .
after their death , i was forced to take over the family business .
there just isnt much time for dallying with the local maidens if youre busy running a hotel .
well , show me what you do know .
her voice was quavering with nervousness .
even though i was exhausted from the events of the day , we proceeded to make love .
her inexperienced fumbling quickly became more confident .
when i entered her , she wrapped her arms around my neck , gently moaning in my ear .
the tight confines of the pit we had dug made for some interesting positions , but we did not stop until both of us were satiated .
after we were done , she fell asleep wrapped in my arms .
i smiled to myself , surprised by the recent turn of events .
we stayed in our hiding place for the rest of the night and through the next day .
by then , the rain had disappeared , allowing the scorching sun to return with a fury .
we spent our time eating , sleeping , and exploring each others bodies .
it wasnt until the sun had set that suvan broke camp and started to guide me once again to the entrance of the valley .
chapter 10 it was night .
after a few more hours of hard traveling , we came to the entrance of the valley .
from the moonlight above i could see the ground gradually sloping downward , ending in an opening between two massive stone slabs .
compared to the open space of the desert , it looked like a trap .
i felt nervous .
i swallowed hard , trying to force the lump in my throat down .
suvan handed me the water skin .
im sorry that i can not offer you anything more than this , she said regretfully .
i hefted the weight of the water in my hand .
but how will you survive without this ?
she shrugged , the motion just a blur in the darkness of the night .
there is water back at my little camp , but i can not spare you my bow or my sword .
im afraid that you will be unprotected from the mutans or any of the other numerous monsters that reside within the valley .
i will figure something out , i said as bravely as i could .
she grabbed my arm and squeezed it tightly .
please dont go in there .
you can return to my camp with me .
ill take you somewhere away from the reach of the mujadeen .
we can be together .
i shook my head .
the mujadeen control everything but the wasteland and the mountains beyond .
i have to get there if i want to continue to live .
even if i run to another town , there is always the danger that some mujadeen will recognize me .
her hand dropped from my arm .
she said coldly , there is a stream in the valley if you look for it .
the mutan mostly stay together in the larger ruins , but there are other dangers that you must worry about .
just stay close to the cliff walls and dont do anything foolish .
not knowing what to say , i bent over and gently kissed her on the cheek .
she did not respond , but instead pulled back .
i said haltingly , thanks again for saving my life .
suvan turned and started to walk away .
she said over her shoulder , go to hell .
before i could respond , she took off in a run and soon disappeared in the shadow of a nearby dune .
for a moment , i just stood there .
i was not ready to face the unknowns of the city yet .
anyways , i already missed suvan .
though i had only known her for just a short time , i liked her forwardness and beauty .
i wondered if i would ever see her again .
my stomach grumbled , reminding me that i must find food soon .
so with a heavy heart , i started walking down the slope to the entrance of the valley .
in the sand , i could see deep paths cut by the treading of numerous mutan feet .
i wondered how kalam and the other rebels made it through here since the mutan seemed to be everywhere .
but still , they had made the journey , which at least gave me some hope of my own survival .
the valley floor was flat , and as i progressed , the walls rose higher and higher into the sky .
i suddenly stopped , amazed at what i saw .
on the sides were several large black alien creatures , slowly inching across the stony surface of the valley sides .
because of the distance and darkness , i could not make out any details , but the thought of some new creeping horror unsettled whatever calm i had .
as i walked further , the ground began to widen out .
at my feet , partially covered in sand , was a road built by the ancients .
it was broken and pot holed , but i still recognized the uniform construction and direction .
on the shoulders of this ancient street were curious mounds of a rather large size .
i approached one cautiously and found that the lumps were made out of hollowed out metal that was rusted and dirty .
i wondered what purpose they once served .
perhaps they were used as storage , but i could not understand why they would be placed so close to the road .
then it dawned on me these were cars , the vehicle of the ancients that my father told me about .
in his days , they were practically gone since the fuel to keep them running had long disappeared .
i wondered if there were any running vehicles inside the city .
it would be amazing to find such a thing and drive it .
my interest in the cars disappeared as soon as i saw the ruin ahead .
it wasnt so much the building itself , but the realization that something could be watching me from within .
full of fear , i cautiously approached the destroyed building , half expecting a mob of mutans to pour out from the shattered doors .
however , my anxiety was unfounded since there was nothing left of the ancient walls but twisted metal .
in the remains of the gloomy interior , i could see nothing but the wreckage of whatever this building once held .
a thick layer of sand covered the floor .
there was a sign with flaking red paint that written in the same letters of the coded note i was carrying .
that gave me food for thought perhaps i could learn the secret language too .
as i continued down the dark road , the cars and buildings started to become more numerous .
i was in awe of the ancients .
how could a civilization that built and did so much just destroy itself ?
it seemed impossible that their knowledge and power would just disappear , leaving only dust and rusted remnants .
if anything , it just proved the folly of mankind and all of his aspirations .
everything we build and loved would , someday , be gone .
my dark thoughts were interrupted by a noise to my left .
it was the faint sound of metal grating on metal .
there was another building over there .
its roof had collapsed ages ago , leaving nothing but a jumbled wreck of rusting steel and broken concrete .
however , the foundation was still intact with a black empty square indicating where a window once stood .
suspecting mutan activity , i silently crept in the direction of the building .
as i left the road , my boots began kicking up dirt covered glass shards , remnants of the windows of the destroyed building .
even though the valley had so far been sparse with vegetation , i noticed that the ground around this ruin was completely devoid of plants .
i impulsively stopped , feeling unsure of myself .
something was definitely wrong with this place .
around my right ankle , there was a sudden squeeze and then a violent pull .
before i could react , i fell over onto my back , knocking the air out of my lungs .
my heart raced with panic as i realized that i was now being slowly dragged along the ground towards the foundation of the building .
looking down , i saw that i was being pulled by something that looked like a thick , black rope wrapped tightly around my ankle .
the pressure was so hard that i could feel my foot going numb .
i reached down and tried to unloop the rope around my ankle .
as i touched the rope , i shuddered with disgust it was scaly and had an unnatural warmth .
i then realized it was alive .
some unknown monster was trying to pull me inside the ruin !
i kicked and struggled , but i still could not break the grip .
i wished i had a sword .
with my left foot , i began pushing against the tentacle , but its grip only increased in intensity .
with my healing burns , the sudden burst of pain caused me to scream .
my left foot then hit something solid .
it was the foundation of the building .
here was the hole , where the length of the tentacle disappeared inside .
i could smell the strong stench of rotten flesh .
bracing my free foot against the concrete foundation , i pushed against the strength of whatever terrible creature was trying to devour me .
as i locked my knee , the strength of the tentacle redoubled .
i gritted my teeth , fighting to keep myself from getting drawn inside .
the grip on my ankle momentarily loosened .
i thought for a moment that i would win against this inhuman strength , but that hope vanished when another tentacle emerged from the hole .
i watched in horror as the second appendage ran along the edge of the foundation , almost like it was searching for whatever was impeding my entry into creatures lair .
it was only a moment when my other ankle was found and the pulling began anew .
i shut my eyes and strained against the impossible strength .
my strength was fading quickly .
in vain , i cried out , by allahs mercy !
suddenly , i heard a swing of a blade slicing through the air .
as i opened my eyes , i saw suvan striking the taut tentacles with her sword .
with two quick hacks , i was free .
from under the ruin , came a horrific squealing that made my ears ring .
i began scrambling away , thankful for the miraculous reprieve .
from out of that fetid hole burst a dozen or more tentacles , flailing randomly for a chance to strike at their attacker .
as suvan stepped back foot by foot , her sword began making a practiced crisscross pattern , the deadly blade slicing into any appendage that strayed too close .
her face was grim , but she did not panic as the creature pressed the attack .
since i did not have a weapon , i took this chance to run .
i stumbled back to the road .
once suvan was out of reach , she walked calmly over to join me .
she said disdainfully , i couldnt leave you for less than an hour before you got into trouble ?
you men are insufferable .
my face burning with shame , i smiled broadly at suvan , glad that she was here .
chapter 11 dawn was approaching , the glimmer of sunlight shining down from the cliff wall above .
pulling my arm , suvan led me off the road to a small ruin .
at one time it must have been a shed , but now the structure had collapsed on itself , leaving nothing but a tangle of debris .
part of the metal roof was still intact , lying on its side , half covering a hole in the ground .
after my last experience , i took a step backwards from this pit , unsure of what horror resided within .
come on , suvan said impatiently .
its completely safe .
ive stayed here many times .
and then she slipped headfirst under the metal and disappeared inside .
with some trepidation , i joined her .
i found myself in an uncomfortable cavity that barely had enough room for the two of us to sit .
it had the smell of dust and decay .
an enterprising spider had once been at work here , leaving a mass of grey cobwebs that got into my hair .
we will rest here , suvan said .
anyways , its going to be daylight soon .
the mutans will be out in force .
you said that youve been here before ?
she made a face .
i told you that there is no water in the wasteland .
at times i must return to the city to get that .
ive hidden here before to stay out of sight from the mutans .
i nodded .
tell me , what was that creature that attacked me ?
she shrugged .
i do not know , nor do i care to know .
it is evil .
but you are lucky that i came along to save you .
i would have been alright , i lied .
she laughed softly .
that i doubt .
i have told you how dangerous this valley is , but you go walking down the road like you own the place .
i told you to stay on the outskirts of the valley , but yet you go investigate anything that strikes your fancy .
why dont you listen to me ?
im afraid i dont know any better since im new to this sort of life , i admitted .
besides , ive never been out of ewark before .
the work of the ancients fascinates me to no end .
with a sigh , suvan shook her head .
i suppose i am used to their buildings and artifacts .
they hold no interest to me except for the profit they bring .
youll get used to it with time .
tell me , would this city be worth the time to scavenge ?
yes , but the mutans are too strong .
it would take an army to dislodge them from the city .
no merchant would take the pay the number of mercenaries needed for such an undertaking .
my father had already written off the possibility and regretfully died when we were leaving for the last time .
i stared at her .
why did you come back to the city for me ?
my question took suvan by surprise .
she had a hard time meeting my eyes when she finally replied .
i came back to help you .
i couldnt leave you to die here .
touched , i reached over and put my hand over hers .
she angrily pulled her arm back , freeing herself from my clasp .
thats not it , you fool .
then what ?
i asked in exasperation .
its the way my father died .
its the way those traders were butchered .
i cant let that happen to anyone else .
the mutans must not be allowed to have another victim .
now try to get some sleep .
this is our only chance to get some rest and we still have a long way to go .
she said nothing more , but instead closed her eyes and almost immediately dropped off to a fitful sleep .
soon morning came , flooding the valley with the light of the sun .
from our hiding place , i could see the mutans using the nearby road .
there were hundreds of them , each one armed with sword and bow .
they paid no attention to our hiding place , but instead were marching east , towards the entrance of the valley .
where are they going ?
i asked suvan , shaking her arm .
her eyes fluttered open .
she answered sleepily , to raid and plunder anyone who crosses into the wasteland .
or beyond .
surely no one comes that far into the wasteland .
you saw those burned wagons of the traders .
they often come from the northwest , hoping to save time by cutting across the wasteland .
but i think there is more to their raiding than that .
what do you mean ?
she explained , there are villages and towns on the edge of the wasteland .
the mutans raid them for food .
there are also easy pickings along the roads that the caravans use .
at least thats what i have heard .
i shuddered at that idea .
but what are they ?
i asked .
what ?
she asked with annoyance .
i mean the mutans , of course .
they arent human , and they only exist in the expanse of the wasteland .
where did they come from ?
she shook her head and said impatiently , some say they were once like us , but living in such an evil place has warped their humanity .
perhaps they are some hideous leftover from the days of the ancients .
or perhaps they have been cursed by allah .
but it doesnt matter .
right now , i suggest you get some sleep since we have a long night of hiking ahead of us .
i will watch now .
i tried to sleep .
though suvan thought this hiding place would never be discovered , i still felt exposed .
tossing and turning , i finally fell asleep dreaming of my old bed back at my now destroyed hotel .
it was stuffed with feathers and so soft .
there wasnt a bed like it in all of ewark .
i awoke with suvan shaking my shoulder .
you snore , she said grumpily .
i thought the mutans were going to discover us by your sound alone .
im sorry , i replied sleepily .
its your turn to watch , she said .
wake me if you see anything coming our way .
the sky above was clear and through one of the openings , i could see almost a dozen strange creatures climbing the wall .
they were the same things that i had seen last night .
they were disgusting .
with their long bodies and thick antennae , they looked like giant black , six foot long crickets , but their crawling motion reminded me of nothing like that jumping insect .
i saw those creatures on the cliff walls last night what are they ? ''
i asked suvan who was trying to find a comfortable position .
they 're harmless , '' she replied crossly , obviously tired of all my questions .
they feed off the lichen on the walls .
i have seen the mutans hunt them for food before .
now stop asking so many questions and let me shut my eyes . ''
my watch started in the mid afternoon .
i stood at my post and kept on eye on the road .
it was stifling inside the hole , and the iron sheet above us soon grew hot to the touch .
it was boring watching so little .
as the sun finally started to wane , i noticed that the nearby mutan foot traffic began to decrease .
however , as twilight came on , there was a sudden inrush of mutans coming from the direction of the valley entrance .
they were returning home , but to where ?
chapter 12 as dark fell , the mutan disappeared from sight .
i gently awoke suvan , who yawned loudly before opening her eyes .
we then silently ate a meal of dried lizard meat before finishing off the last of the water skin .
it wasnt much of a meal , and i was beginning to hunger for something else .
with rations like this , i would become as thin as a knife .
we shall have to get some water , she commented afterward .
its only a little distance from here .
lead the way , i said .
crawling out of our hole , we began walking along the outskirts of the ruins .
here i could see the towering wall of this side of the valley .
the walls were widening out , making me wonder how exactly how large this valley was .
the ruins were now more numerous , crowding closely together with a maze of rubble filled streets and roads , numerous remnants of cars could also be seen , the rusted metal pitted with time .
suvan moved cautiously , silent as a ghost .
her eyes searched along the crooks and crannies of the debris .
in the gloom of night , i saw a distant circle of flickering light ahead .
suvan also saw it , and she motioned for me to drop back behind her .
we crept silently along , the empty , quiet buildings our only company .
as we progressed , the light grew larger and larger .
it was a roaring fire in a clearing next to a collapsed ruin .
in front of that blaze was a score of huddled mutans , resting on their haunches .
we hurriedly hid behind a wrecked car .
it 's a mutan outpost , suvan whispered into my ear .
theyre setup at various spots in the city .
but why bother ?
i replied .
who do they expect to attack them ?
she shook her head .
i do not understand most of their behavior .
but we still have to get around them without being seen .
we can go further into the city and bypass them easily enough .
why take the risk of being so close ?
going into the city at night is not a wise choice , she said harshly .
it 's unsafe .
there are things here that are far worse than that tentacled horror that almost ate you .
then what would you have us do ?
i will cause a distraction , and they will go after me .
in the meanwhile , you can run across and meet me on the other side .
there is a rusted bridge another four hundred yards further .
it sits above the water that we need .
it will be a suitable place for you to wait .
she was certainly brave , but i though her idea was foolish .
i said , i appreciate your willingness to sacrifice yourself for me , but we shall make it past together .
you are no fighter , she said mockingly .
give me that sword of yours , and i can show what i can do , i retorted .
with a sigh , suvan reluctantly drew out her sword and handed it over to me .
in the darkness , i looked at the curved blade and felt the unfamiliar weight of steel in my hand .
i was no swordsman , but i was willing to kill if it meant saving my own life .
had n't i already killed two mutans ?
i could do it again if i needed to .
let 's move , i said , trying to sound braver than i felt .
taking her bow off her shoulder , suvan adjusted the quiver of arrows at her waist .
with a nod of her head , she began silently leading me down a ruined avenue .
a few of the buildings were still standing , but the majority had fallen over , choking the street with debris .
as we progressed , i saw out of the corner of my eye , the flame of mutan fire growing brighter .
soon a low , ruined wall was all that separated us from them .
from here i could hear their strange , garbled language .
suvan moved silently like a cat .
my own footsteps sounded loud as my boots slipped over the rough ground .
my elbow accidentally struck the nearby wall .
suddenly , an ancient brick clattered off and fell heavily to the paved ground with a reverberating echo .
suvan suddenly stopped .
i nearly ran into her .
i stood still , holding my breath .
the low talk amongst the mutan had ceased .
in the shadows , i could see suvan slowly turn and face me .
a forefinger hovered over her lips , signaling silence .
i stood motionless , not even daring to breathe .
a guttural bark rang out , and i could hear the motion of feet heading in our direction .
suvan quickly tugged on my hand before taking off in a sprint .
i followed suit , not caring this time if i was heard .
we burst out past the wall and into the open street .
suvan was a fast runner and was quickly gaining ground on me .
turning my head , i saw four mutans coming from behind .
their wicked blades glinted from the weak light of the moon .
i picked up my pace , running as hard as i could .
in seconds it felt as if my lungs were going to burst .
i had been living a comfortable life too long for this kind of adventure .
from the mutan camp , a barrage of arrows suddenly passed over my head .
ahead , i heard suvan give a scream .
she dropped to the ground , writhing in pain .
catching up to her , i stopped and found her lying face down with an arrow sticking out of her right calf .
she was desperately trying to pull it out , but it was wedged tightly into her flesh .
in the darkness , the fresh blood on the ground looked black .
that was all i saw before i turned to face our attackers .
they rushed at us with their swords held high and a malicious leer pasted on their twisted , alien faces .
i held my sword at the ready .
with a clang of steel , they attacked me .
our swords clashed together .
the force of their combined blows made me stagger back a step .
one of them tried to go low , lunging his blade at my mid section .
through sheer luck i just managed to twist away unharmed .
taking another step back , i then lunged at the closest attacker .
my blade struck the mutan fully in the chest , the blade penetrating almost up to the hilt .
with a twist of my arm , he went down with an agonizing scream .
the other combatants did not even hesitate upon seeing the death of their comrade , but instead took the chance to press the attack .
the air was alive with swinging blades .
it took all of my strength and whatever little skill i had to keep the remaining attackers at bay .
every step i took backwards took them closer to suvan .
i could n't allow that to happen .
i took a chance and decided to attack .
with a wide arcing sweep of my blade , i caught one mutan unaware .
the blade cleaved deeply into the creature 's forearm , making him drop this weapon with an ear splitting howl .
behind me , i heard the twang of an arrow being released from suvan 's bow .
the arrow sunk deeply into the throat of another attacker , leaving only one standing .
the remaining mutan showed no concern for his compatriots .
he also showed no fear when he continued to violently swing his sword at me , aiming for my head .
i parried his blow and used my superior strength to push him back a step .
though weaker , he was still incredibly fast .
his sword suddenly slipped downwards , breaking contact with my blade before trying to plunge upward into my breast .
it was only my long reach that gave me the scant time to turn away from this fatal strike .
with this move , the mutan had left himself exposed .
since i was now too close to use the sharp end of the sword , i instead used the hilt to rap the remaining mutan hard on the head .
he immediately sprawled to the ground , unconscious .
mikel !
suvan shouted out , her voice wracked with pain .
i turned and found her sitting up with bow in hand .
the mutan arrow was still stuck deeply in her leg .
i immediately reached down to pull it out .
she said impatiently , never mind that !
we have to get moving before more mutans come our way .
they wont go far beyond the light of their bonfire .
that 's our only chance to escape .
i shoved the sword into my belt and picked suvan up .
with a grunt , i draped her over my shoulder and started to trot forward .
she looked lighter than she felt .
we were soon lost in the darkness of the ruins .
following suvans whispered directions , we presently found ourselves standing at a narrow footbridge that was rusted dark from the years .
underneath my feet , i could hear a slow gurgle of passing water .
as we crossed the ancient causeway , i looked down and saw a narrow stream , the moon shining off the moving water .
the bridge led to path choked with small trees and thick weeds .
we were safe for now .
chapter 13 morning had come .
suvan was sleeping under the tarp , her head resting on the weeds .
last night i had pulled the arrow from her calf , and she did n't even let out a whimper .
i knew i would have screamed like a baby .
afterward , i had bound the wound tightly with an extra rag from her knapsack .
there was little i could do but hope that the mutan arrow tip had not been poisoned .
without a word , she had fallen into a fitful sleep as i ran my hand gently along her back as if petting a cat .
i took this moment to reconnoiter where we were .
with the sword in hand , i began following the edge of the thin stream .
at one time it must have been a large river since the ancient sandy banks were still evident .
in the middle of the water , i could see a hulk of a small sailboat half buried in the stream bed .
the shore on the other side had a row of ruined buildings , their empty windows staring at me with silent foreboding .
it was quiet here , but i still felt as if i was being watched .
as i walked along the meandering bank of this depleted river , i saw that the path of the water was curving .
perhaps we were on a small island .
after a few minutes , my suspicions turned out to be correct when i came back to the bridge that we had first crossed last night .
i followed the path inwards and found suvan where i had left her .
she was still sleeping , and since the mutans were still nowhere to be seen , i decided to take the time to investigate the interior .
here the trees and weeds grew thicker , forming a natural wall against trespassers .
a rabbit jumped out of the underbrush and ran out of sight , reminding me that i still hadnt eaten this morning .
i was getting tired of dried lizard , and the thought of fresh rabbit stew made my mouth water .
ignoring my rumbling stomach , i pressed on , forcing my way through a tangle of branches by using the sword to cut through the bramble .
a few dozen feet in there was a weather stained concrete wall here , standing about twice my own height and ending on top with a flat roof which was thick with growing plants .
the length of the wall went on for some twenty feet and was only broken by three small windows .
remarkably , the glass was still intact and glazed with grime .
peering inside , i could n't see anything but darkness .
continuing onward , i slashed at the undergrowth .
i followed the edge of the wall until i got to the corner .
here the entangled branches lessened and i was able to progress with less hindrance .
i found another wall here with a wide metal door set into the wall .
by some miracle , the door was still white even though there was no sign of paint .
a hard rap with my knuckles revealed a hollow space behind the metal but i saw no obvious means of egress .
frustrated , i continued my examination of this side of the building .
beyond the metal door , there was another corner .
once i went past this , i found a large attached concrete building with a series of unbroken but dirty windows , and a set of steps that led to a regular sized door .
this place looked like a home , but certainly unlike any house i had ever seen before .
it was enormous at two stories high and must have belonged to some wealthy man who was now long dead .
i felt like a trespasser to a tomb .
not wanting to break the windows to gain entry , i climbed the stairs and tried the door .
it was locked .
this door was made of the same rust free material as the other , but i put my shoulder hard into it .
the hinges pulled easily away from the wooden frame , and the door fell inside with a crash , causing a plume of dust to rise from the floor .
it was dim inside , but there was just enough light to see .
i cautiously entered , feeling as if i should pay my respects to the dead .
the floor was covered with a thick inch of dust , while from the ceiling hung a thick tapestry of cobwebs .
hanging across the windows were the moth holed remnants of curtains , the light from outside dimmed by years of dirt .
there was also a sofa with legs that had collapsed to the floor and two chairs that faced a dusty gray panel attached to the wall .
an opening , across from the front door , led to another room .
apart from the natural decay of time , the house still looked remarkably intact .
with the concrete construction and closed egresses , the elements never had a chance to do their destructive work .
deciding this was a good place to hole up until suvan had a chance to heal , i returned to her .
i found that she was awake , looking apprehensive from the sound of my footsteps until she saw it was me .
i thought you left me , she whispered weakly .
i looked fondly at her .
i could n't do that to the girl who saved my life .
i have to apologize , she said with a trace of embarrassment .
for what ?
i did n't think you could fight , but you fought those four mutans and won .
i shrugged .
it was nothing .
anyway , i had a little help from you .
but we have to get you off of that ground so you can heal up .
i found a house where we can stay .
she looked perplexed .
a house ?
here on the island ?
it was hidden in the undergrowth .
it 's in remarkably good shape with an intact roof .
it will be a good place for you to rest until you are ready to go on .
i have been to this island before to get water , but i never suspected there was a house here .
neither has anyone else .
other than my hotel , i 've never seen such an intact building of the ancients .
there is even furniture inside that we can use .
her eyes were alive with curiosity .
take me there , she demanded .
i gently picked suvan up , cradling her in my arms .
she rested her head against my shoulder , her breathing quick and shallow .
i carefully carried her to the house , vainly trying to keep the branches from striking her .
inside , i spread the tarp on the ruined sofa and then placed her on top .
suvan looked over the room , her eyes wide as she marveled at the artifacts .
in all my visits to the cities , ive never seen a home of the ancients that was not looted or ruined .
its a miracle that this has escaped notice for so long .
perhaps the builder of this place made it that way on purpose .
it is our good fortune that he did .
i dont think the mutans even know of this place .
chapter 14 as suvan rested on the sofa , i started to carefully explore the rest of the home .
from the front room , the next place to examine was the kitchen .
it was dirty , the ceiling mounted light covered with gray , dirty cobwebs .
under this lifeless light there was a dusty glass table surrounded by four chairs .
a hallway with carpeting was to the left , while a closed door of wood was to the right .
i recognized the sink , stove , and cupboards but could not make sense of some of the other objects there .
a large metal box , big enough to fit two of me , was shoved up against the wall .
it had a chrome handle , so i gently pulled on it with no result .
a harder tug and the door released itself from the grip of time .
inside there were boxes and containers labeled with strange blocky writing .
there was also a faint odor of decay that reminded me of sour milk .
whatever material they once contained had long rotted away and turned to dust .
returning my interest to the cupboards , i found nothing inside but plates , glasses and the carcass of a dried out centipede .
the drawers turned up some blackened spoons , knives and forks .
next , i tried the door on the right .
it opened easily enough with the rusted hinges barely protesting the movement .
this was a large room , the second ingress from the outside metal door that had stymied me before .
inside this area , there was nothing but a jumble of hoses and gardening equipment , the wooden handles looking dried and fragile .
returning to the kitchen , i then ventured down the hallway which had four doors , two on each side .
the first door practically fell apart when i opened it .
this was a small narrow room with two sinks and a bathtub caked with dust .
fragments of a mirror were scattered on the floor and countertop .
in the next room , the door was already open .
at one time it had been a bedroom .
the curtains hanging above the window were nothing but tattered scraps , but the remnants of the large bed was still occupied .
lying on the moth eaten covers was the mummified remains of a person .
the skull had empty sockets that stared sightlessly up at the ceiling .
the body was shriveled to a hideous gray , reminding me of a mutan , and covered with moth eaten rags .
clutched in the flesh stripped hand was an object that i easily recognized a pistol .
wrenching the gun from the death grip of our host was no easy matter , but i soon had it in my possession .
to my disappointment , the metal had long rusted away .
pointing the gun at the wall , i tried to pull the trigger , expecting some old magic to still exist , but nothing happened .
disappointed , i threw the gun back on the bed and continued on .
the other room was also a bedroom , but was empty except for the decayed furniture .
the last door led to a stairway heading upwards .
suvan ?
i called down the hall .
yes , mikel ?
her ghost of a voice answered from the front room .
i havent found anything yet , but im headed upstairs to take a look around .
call me if you need anything .
dont be gone for long , she said .
this place is starting to scare me a little bit .
i took the stairs cautiously , each step creaking ominously as the aged wood protested the sudden weight of my body .
the stairs ended in a large room that took up the entire second story .
at one time , it must have been a beautiful place , for the walls at the back of the house were nothing but glass .
even the ceiling had a row of glass windows but they were now covered with the decayed flora that rested on the roof above .
the trees here were now growing close to the house , making the outside light turn green as it shone through a canopy of leaves .
through this vision of rippling fauna , i could see two wooden easels with paintings that had long ago faded away .
on the walls there were more paintings that were now nothing but faint images .
there were also the remnants of a sofa and a nearby long box with brass ends .
the box immediately drew my attention since , except for the dust , it was in remarkably good condition .
i walked slowly over to it , the floor creaking uncertainly .
i got down on my knees to examine the box more closely .
with my sleeve , i dusted it off and found that the box was heavily covered in green paint with yellow lettering that was unfamiliar to me .
there was a clasp on the front so i gave it a twist before pulling up on the lid .
it was a tight fit , but i eventually managed to wrestle the box open .
inside , there were some objects wrapped in greasy paper .
i nervously lifted them out before unwrapping them .
the heaviest package was a perfectly preserved , all metal pistol that was covered in a thick coating of grease .
the second package was a covered jar of oil with a dozen small metal cases inside .
i did n't know what they were , so i went back to examining the gun .
i had never used one before , and the only gun i had ever seen was used by the sub vizier .
with a scrap of dusty rag , i began wiping the pistol clean , examining the parts as i went .
i accidentally released a catch , and the multi chamber cylinder swung out .
once i examined and cleaned the chambers of oil , i realized the metal cases in the jar would fit perfectly .
it dawned on me that the hammer on top of the gun would strike the end of the metal case , firing the bullet attached to the other end .
i had seen the sub vizier fire the gun at me , but could i somehow make this ancient weapon work too ?
i removed one of the metal cases from the jar , marveling at the compact machining of the ancients .
i snugged it into a chamber and closed the cylinder .
with my hands shaking , i pointed the gun at the wall .
i closed my eyes and pulled the trigger .
there was a click but nothing else happened .
opening my eyes , i examined the cylinder again .
the case i had inserted was n't lined up with the hammer .
this time i spun the cylinder forward until the case was lined up .
i pulled the trigger again .
with an ear splitting crack , the bullet plunged into the wall , shattering the plaster in a most satisfying manner .
i now had a weapon that could even the odds with anything i could possibly encounter .
chapter 15 we spent an entire week in the house , waiting for suvan to heal .
upon the first examination , i had found that her wound was particularly nasty .
once i had boiled some water , i carefully cleaned the deep gash , removing whatever dirt i could find .
then using a needle and thread , i sewed the scraps of flesh together .
she was strong girl and managed not to cry out in pain .
she then spent most of her time on the sofa , resting , the house felt strange , almost haunted .
it was like the spirits of the dead still walked through the halls and rooms .
i always felt uneasy sleeping inside , even after i had dragged the corpse out to bury , deep in the forest .
i spent most of my time exploring the island , hunting for food with the bow as i went .
with the fresh water from the stream and the availability of rabbits and birds , we were soon both gaining weight .
when she could finally walk , suvan limped around the house , examining the various artifacts .
from her experience , she explained the workings of the refrigerator and oven , and how the ancients used the power of electricity to make them work .
no one knew how to make electricity anymore , but it seemed like a wondrous invention , if not a little short sighted .
who would want to depend on anything so ethereal ?
man could always depend on the burning of wood and the light of the oil lamp .
in the kitchen , she had found a container , made from that wondrous material called plastic , which would be suitable for carrying water .
i added that to my belt to carry .
she was most amazed by the pistol i had discovered , claiming it was the only one she had ever seen .
these are rare , she exclaimed as her hand gently brushed over the metal workings .
i said proudly , i 've only seen one myself in the hands of the sub vizier .
only the most important men have them .
they are worth a fortune .
i laughed .
im afraid there is no one here to buy it .
anyway , i prefer to keep it .
there are eleven shots left , and they may save our lives someday .
she shrugged .
though i am a scavenger and know these cities well , i still do not trust these tools of the ancients .
the bow and the sword are more reliable .
i replied , the string of the bow can snap .
the sword gets nicked and dull with use .
like all things , they are just tools that must be cared for .
the gun is no different , but is vastly more powerful .
she motioned at the dusty walls of the house .
the ancients had everything technology that we can only dream of .
but still , they are dead and gone .
what did all these powerful things get the poor owner of this home ?
he could n't face the destruction of the old world , so he decided to kill himself .
that gun could not save his life .
that was then , and this is now , i replied , wanting to drop the subject .
seeing my discomfort , she smiled .
it really does n't matter to me what you do with that pistol .
i just do n't trust anything that i do not understand .
i do not fully understand it myself , but it will serve to protect us .
we spent the last day here preparing provisions and filling our containers with water .
i really did not want to leave this oasis of the wasteland , but i knew we could n't stay here much longer .
during the day , i had seen several mutans coming to the stream to fill their water jugs .
the trails leading to the island also indicated that they had been here before , so it was best to leave before suvan and i were accidentally discovered .
as the sun slipped away , we left the island and returned to the trail that followed the canyon wall .
with each block of streets we passed , the ruins were becoming larger and the nearby streets more crowded with rubble .
in the light of the half moon , i could see that some of the buildings had still managed to stand upright , the skeleton framework showing through the broken windows and collapsed floors .
it was eerily quiet .
the world of the ancients was dead , and only ghosts of the past existed .
it was obvious that kalam and the rebel scouts had gone through this area on horseback , using their speed to quickly traverse through the dangers .
on foot , this was an entirely different situation since we were at the mercy of the mutans or any other strange beast that inhabited this wretched place .
it was almost dawn when stopped to look for a place to hole up for the day .
we were passing by the intersection of two streets .
out of habit , i looked down the gloomy road to check that we were not being observed .
to my amazement , i thought i saw someone standing in front of a building that was some one hundred yards away .
though the moonlight was waning , i knew it wasnt a mutan because this figure stood taller than any of those twisted creatures .
in my excitement , i pulled on suvans sleeve and pointed at this sight .
she asked impatiently , what is it ?
dont you see it ?
suvan began looking over the street .
it was only a moment before she let out a gasp .
she then took me by the hand , and we started cautiously down the street , using the destroyed cars as cover .
we stopped some ten yards away , seemingly undetected .
at this distance i saw it was a man dressed in tattered clothes .
he did not notice us but continued to stare ahead , standing as still as a statue .
i 'm going to take a closer look i whispered into suvans ear .
no , wait !
she shouted as i broke from her grasp .
foolishly ignoring her warning , i stepped out onto the street and quickly approached the man .
i could her suvans footsteps behind me .
she was warning me to stop .
when i was within touching distance , the ground underneath my feet began to immediately break away .
i felt suvan grab my arm , but it was too late .
the dirt underneath crumbled .
we fell together into a hidden pit .
after a second of falling , i hit the bottom hard , knocking the breath out of me .
at the same time , suvan landed next to me with a grunt .
we were immediately engulfed in a cloud of dust which only added to the confusion .
are you alright ?
i sheepishly asked suvan .
i dont think anything is broken , she replied crossly as she found my hand .
until the dust settled , we sat there , clutching each other like children .
we soon found ourselves in the bottom of a rough pit that was approximately six feet in diameter .
the opening above was some fifteen feet away .
the immobile figure that drew me to this trap was resting on my feet .
it wasnt a man at all , but some type of statue made from a light plastic material .
you fool , suvan said now that the shock had abated .
this was a trap set by the mutan .
they used this old shop dummy as bait and you fell for it .
you didnt seem to catch on that fact too quickly either , i grumbled .
im not the one who walked right into this pit , she spat out .
i was warning you , but you werent listening .
i shrugged .
were lucky at least they didnt plant the bottom with stakes .
as you found already out , the mutan prefer to cook their food alive , suvan sharply reminded me .
we only have a few minutes before sunrise , so we had better start working on a way out of here before some mutan comes along and discovers us .
we can try , i said with little hope since from here the task looked nearly impossible .
at first i tried to climb up the sides , but the walls of the pit were too steep .
they were also roughly cut , and any purchase i found quickly crumbled in my hands .
i fell back with exasperation .
for the next attempt , i merely braced my shoulders against a wall and had suvan climb on top of me .
as her toes dug painfully into the top of my shoulders , she tried to reach the edge .
its too far away !
jump for it , i said through gritted teeth .
her position shifted , sending waves of pain through my shoulders .
she jumped .
a shower of dirt struck my head as i took a step backwards and looked up .
she was hanging onto the edge , but the ground there was already giving away from her weight .
she soon fell , but i was able to catch her .
we collapsed together into a heap .
are you hurt ?
i asked , rubbing my jaw where her head had connected in the fall .
im fine , she replied grumpily .
we will have to dig our way out of here , i said , as i eyed the edge of the pit .
that will take hours and there isnt enough time .
as she spoke , her words were punctuated by the lightening of the sky above .
dawn was coming , which meant the mutans would soon be out , prowling the streets .
we dont have much choice , i replied testily .
my idea was to dig on one side of the pit , causing the wall to collapse .
we could stand on this mound , eventually creating an angled slope leading to freedom .
it would be dangerous work since we both risked being buried alive if the wall came down too quickly .
i started gingerly , removing handfuls of dirt at a time .
suvan joined in to help .
the sun above was getting higher with every moment .
as our work slowly progressed , i noticed that the color of the earth here was darker than above .
this was rich soil , suitable for farming and completely unlike the desert above .
what had happened here to cauase such a change ?
this was another mystery to consider at some other time .
any further thought in this direction was interrupted by the movement i saw above us .
a human head with long gray hair peeked over the edge , the eyes boring into us .
hoo hoo !
the man laughed .
i never expected to catch anything like this !
this is your trap ?
i called out .
of course it is !
he replied with a giggle .
who else could it be ?
i thought it was the mutans , i answered .
hoo hoo !
he laughed again .
those silly things could never make anything so clever so wonderfully ingenious as this !
and you fell for it !
hoo hoo !
that 's the funniest thing i have ever seen . ''
i looked at suvan who shook her head , her eyes filled with distrust .
could you help us out of here ?
i asked hopefully .
well , i dont know .
please , suvan said .
it wont be much longer before the mutans come patrolling the streets .
you will captured along with us .
hoo !
they wouldnt dare touch me .
now hold on a second .
his face disappeared from the edge .
soon a slim rope uncurled down into the pit .
it was made of a thin blue material that was slippery to the touch .
i motioned to suvan to take the rope .
she started climbing up , bringing an avalanche of dirt down on me .
she was soon out .
i followed suit and after a difficult scramble , found myself back on the street .
there suvan was standing still , but her bow was out with an arrow notched and ready to go .
as my eyes followed the direction of her gaze , i saw that we were surrounded by hundreds of mutans .
they were standing completely still on both sides of us , blocking both sides of the street .
the man who had rescued us was a few feet away .
with his back to us , the stranger was busily untying the rope that was attached to a destroyed car .
he straightened up and began winding the rope up into a tidy coil .
he then turned and took a few steps towards us .
i saw the eyes of all the mutans follow his every move .
now youre safe and sound , the man said , his eyes going over suvan in a lustful manner that i found off putting .
what about them ?
suvan spat out .
his eyes were shining with delight .
oh , they wont hurt you as long as you are with me .
now come on , follow me .
he walked towards the mutans , who parted to let him pass .
without showing any interest towards these gray skinned monsters , he led us to a trash filled stairway protected by a cracked concrete wall .
we followed him down into the gloom below .
chapter 16 the concrete steps led to a dark , cavernous space that rang with echo of our feet .
here the old man took a torch propped against the wall and lit it .
the flickering flame revealed that we were standing on a wide ledge made with cracked tiles .
a number of columns supported the roof above .
there was a tunnel on the far side that passed through the room .
without a further word , he brought us down a small flight of stairs that led to the tunnel .
beneath our feet were four ribbons of unbroken but rusted metal that disappeared into the darkness .
the atmosphere was dusty and foul , but i was relieved to see that the mutans had not followed us down here .
suvan finally spoke .
what is your name ?
her words echoed down the tunnel , fading into a whisper .
my name ?
i dont really remember , the old man replied uncertainly .
everyone has a name , suvan stated .
after a hollow laugh , he said , im usually called the old one , but tahn will suffice .
tell me , tahn , i said .
where exactly are we ?
he giggled .
the ancients called it a subway .
there used to be vehicles that rode on the iron rails here , ferrying people through the city .
these tunnels snake under the streets , with the stations giving access to the ground above .
ive found them to be the best way to travel without hindrance .
of course some of the tunnels are very dangerous so its good to know your way around here .
i tried to think of something like cars driving underground , but i had a hard time imagining why anyone would want to do that .
it was much better to see the sun than travel through a gloomy passageway like this .
suvan , being more practical , asked , where are you taking us ?
tahn replied grumpily , questions , questions do either of you ever run out of questions ?
we are going to my home , of course .
there we can talk and have something to eat , my dear .
suvan was the persistent type .
she asked , can you tell me why the mutans leave you alone ?
he sighed .
they have always left me alone .
they left my father alone and his father before that .
my family has lived in this city since the beginning of time .
the mutans have the decided that we are wise in the ways of the ancients .
since they are descended from the power of the ancients , then my wisdom is sacrosanct .
so you are like a holy man to them ?
i asked , skeptical of such an outlandish idea .
tahn shrugged .
you could call me that .
what about that trap of yours that we fell into ?
was that to capture the mutans ?
hoo hoo !
the mutans ?
there is nothing to discover there , '' he replied cryptically .
no , i was looking for new specimens to add to my collection .
there are always new creatures being born in the wasteland and especially here in the city .
i study them .
now no more questions .
i glanced at suvan who just shrugged her shoulders in resignation .
we continued walking .
in the darkness of the tunnel , time and distance lost all meaning .
tahns torch was the only light source , the flames casting our long shadows against the dirty brick walls .
after passing several more silent stations , we finally stopped at a metal door tucked into the side of the wall .
with a gentle tug by tahn , the door swung open with ease to reveal a flight of stairs .
i hope you are not tired , he said .
we have a long climb in front of us .
i do promise you good lunch though .
it has been a long time since ive had company .
i will be fine , suvan replied .
as will i , i said .
tahn giggled again , a habit that i was finding most annoying .
he said , very well , i hope so .
we started climbing .
the stairs were perfectly preserved , and i noticed from the sound of our boots that they were made of metal which been painted white many times .
every dozen steps , the stairs stopped at a landing with a metal door .
each door had a number painted on it that incremented as we went up .
by the time we reached number twenty , my breathing was becoming labored .
i saw that suvan was also tiring from the effort , but to my dismay , tahn was only looking amused .
he seemed to suffer no ill effects from the climb .
perhaps he was used to it .
hoo hoo !
i thought you two youngsters would be able to keep up with me .
dont worry about me , suvan managed to gasp out .
i kept my tongue and said nothing , instead concentrating on the task at hand .
we did not stop climbing the stairs until we reached a door painted with the number thirty two .
tahn extinguished the torch by dumping the lit end into a bucket of sand .
he then opened the door for us , flooding the stairwell with sunlight .
suvan and i entered , blinking .
after my eyes adjusted , i saw that we were in a massive room with a ceiling supported by row of evenly spaced pillars .
there were jumbles of ancient artifacts piled up everywhere , along with a messy bed and a table of a modest nature .
the most amazing part was the walls .
they were nothing but glass all the way around .
the building we were in stood deep in a group of skeletal ruins made of metal and fragments of glass .
below , the streets were laid out in regular pattern .
to the east , i could also see the riverbed and the trickle of water it carried .
the view at the horizon was spectacular with the walls of the canyon clearly visible .
i felt like i could see for miles .
suvan let out her breath .
its amazing !
tahn cackled with delight .
i 'm glad you think so , my dear . ''
i waved a hand in the direction of the other buildings .
compared to those ruins , why is your place so free of decay ?
its a lot of hard work , but before i tell you that story , lets have some food first .
what exactly do you eat ?
i asked , imagining rats or even mutan flesh .
let me show you , he replied proudly .
tahn then led us back to the stairway .
we climbed upwards again , but only went up one flight to the last landing .
we went through the doorway to the roof of the building .
here we were inside a glass structure that was exceedingly humid .
on the floor were long wooden troughs with healthy plants growing inside .
i immediately recognized tomatoes , melons , lettuce , green beans and a myriad of other produce .
i had never seen anything like this before .
who had ever heard of growing plants indoors ?
tahn was talking proudly .
the greenhouse provides me with all the food i need .
the water comes from the rain filled cistern tanks above .
it all works rather well , though im getting too old to bend while working on the garden .
now lets return downstairs and have some lunch .
lunch turned out to be a vegetable stew .
it was n't particularly tasty , but it was still better than lizard meat .
afterward , he brought out three glasses of red wine .
it was n't very good either , but it beat the water i had been drinking the past few days .
as we drank , tahn started rambling at length .
you have been through the wasteland and survived long enough to make it into the heart of the city .
you have seen how dangerous it is out there , with the murderous mutans and the other evil creatures that live to kill .
there is no place of safety other than this building of mine .
there is fresh food and fresh water .
the mutans dare not approach me .
that is all true , i agreed , wondering why he was telling us this .
he continued , i need help here .
the building requires constant repair and maintenance to stop father time from taking what is rightfully his .
the gardening alone takes up hours of time every day .
i need more free time for research to figure out what makes the technology of the ancients tick and what causes the creatures to mutate while here in the wasteland .
he looked at me .
would you be willing to help out ?
we could stay for a few days and help , i replied thankfully .
i was glad for another chance to rest , before we pushed on to the mountains .
i guess so , '' suvan replied with little conviction .
chapter 17 that afternoon , while suvan was sent out to begin working on the garden , i followed tahn down to another level of the building .
instead of a great room like the floor he lived on , my eyes were greeted with a dimly lit hall .
the only visible light was from the torch in my hand and a faint light coming from the cracks around the several doors .
this is one of my many laboratories , tahn commented as he reached for the nearest door handle .
each floor has , let 's say , a different interest .
he ushered me inside , where i nearly dropped the torch in disgust .
the far wall had two dingy windows that let the light from outside filter in .
in the center of the room was a shiny metallic table surrounded by four unlit oil lamps .
but what rested on the table was a horrid thing that defied my imagination , the motionless creature was roughly the size of a man , but the structure of the bone and purple skin made a unique , almost baroque structure .
with three long spindly legs , a fat , almost bulbous torso , and five thick arms , i thought that such a monster could never possibly walk unaided .
the pale , red face bore no resemblance to anything human or animal , looking like a distorted assembly of unrelated parts .
there were five eyes , arranged in a haphazard fashion around two holes that must have served as nostrils .
there were two mouths , each one located on a cheek , that were bared open to reveal a row of razor like teeth .
he 's a beauty , is n't he ?
tahn said with glee .
i swallowed , pushing the rising bile back into my throat .
where did you find such a horrible thing ?
he laughed in such a manner that sent a chill down my spine .
you 'll be surprised what turns up in some of the darker corners of the city .
i have seen things that would give you nightmares for the rest of your life .
but come , help me get ready to dissect this specimen .
light the lamps and lay out the instruments .
i will then instruct you on the proper methods of surgery .
after i lit the oil lamps and laid out the equipment as he suggested , i stood aside and watched as tahn went to work .
he had a deft hand with the scalpel , cutting into the flesh with practiced ease .
the organs inside were removed , each one was then closely examined .
once that part was done , he used a saw to remove the top the skull .
the brain tissue was carefully removed and examined , before being placed inside of a labeled jar .
i now speak of all these actions with a sense of detachment , but when i was actually there , i could barely stand the horror .
all the while , my insides felt like jelly .
i just wanted to look away , but tahn made sure to pepper me with comments and questions as he did his terrible work .
when that was all finished , the carcass was covered with a rough cloth .
we then worked together , lifting the remains off the table and placing it on a cart .
from there , i pushed it out of the room and down the hall .
with tahn 's help , i wrestled the body into a metal chute where it disappeared below .
i asked distastefully , and what exactly did you learn from doing that ?
not much , he replied , obviously not picking up on my apparent disgust .
it 's a fairly common humanoid mutation , perhaps even related to the mutans .
but it is worthless for what i 'm working on .
and what exactly are you working on ?
i asked , afraid to hear the answer .
he smiled , his eyes gazing into nothingness .
why to improve my flock , of course . ''
the mutans ?
i asked , incredulous .
he spoke like a loving father .
they are like my children .
like any loving parent , i only want to make sure they survive this world .
but they kill and eat people , '' i protested .
how can you be party to such a horrible thing ?
he stared at me , his expression unfathomable .
i have my own reasons .
would you like to see where the mutans are born ?
i 'm not sure , i replied with a renewed sense of sickness .
come now , it is n't as bad as that .
and with those words , tahn led me to the stairway where we took several more flights down until we reached floor twelve .
he opened the door and let me pass first .
the stench inside was unbearable , reminding me of excrement and rotted flesh .
this was a large area that took up the entire floor .
rows and rows of foot wide metal boxes were on the floor , small gray hands clambering to get out .
the sound of the little prisoners was a mix of horrific wailing and toddler gibberish .
a line of windows provided the light , though i wished such a sight as i am about to mention would have been forever invisible .
in the middle of the room sat a gigantic pod of flesh , some twenty feet long and horribly mottled with gray spots .
on one end was a large orifice that oozed some yellowish liquid , the substance staining the floor .
on the other side was the body of a mutan , but with vacant black eyes , small breasts and spindly arms .
my stomach lurched when i finally realized i was seeing the female of the species .
tahn sounded like a lovelorn teenager when he said , she 's beautiful , is n't she ?
my father 's father discovered her in the lowest , darkest part of the city .
in a place that is even deeper than the subways .
he brought her back here to experiment on , wondering how such a thing could exist .
of course she was smaller then , but took readily to a steady diet of meat and vegetables .
to his amazement , when given his seed , there was offspring .
that 's how the first mutan was created .
his seed ?
i asked , dumbfounded .
yes , he was the original father of the mutans .
just like i am their father now .
i felt a strong urge to run this man through with my sword , but i stopped myself .
suvan and i needed to escape , but we were trapped right in the heart of the mutans , without a clear way out .
killing this insane man would only hasten our death .
tahn suddenly said , you 've seen enough for today .
perhaps more than i should have shown , but i ca n't help but brag about my accomplishments .
now let 's go eat some dinner .
when we arrived at the top floor , the light of the sun was already starting to fade .
we found suvan was still busy in the garden , intently removing weeds from the soil , and from the cistern , watering the plants .
her face was streaked with dirt and her clothes had definitely seen better days .
tahn watched her with bright and shiny eyes .
it was sickening .
i felt a burst of jealous anger course through my veins .
it was abominable to think of this disgusting old man even thinking of her in such a manner .
he said , perhaps you two had better clean up before we eat , he suggested .
you can use water from the cistern .
i will go and prepare dinner .
suvan readily agreed to this idea and took a bucket to get the water .
after tahn had left , i followed her outside to help .
as the water ran into the bucket , i said to her in low tones , we must escape tonight when the mutans are sleeping .
she nodded , the movement barely visible .
i do n't like the way he is looking at me . ''
trust me , you wo n't believe what i just saw .
but i 'll tell you later .
there is n't enough time right now .
but how do we get out of here ?
i shrugged .
perhaps we can backtrack the way we came .
after we had washed , the two of us returned inside and went to the floor below .
tahn was cooking , and the familiar smell of simmering vegetables greeted my nostrils .
i felt sick , the memory of what i had just seen was still too strong for my stomach .
after the food was done , tahn bade us to sit at the table .
after we were seated , he poured out some wine and ladled out the stew .
as we ate and drank , tahn kept quiet , which was unexpected .
instead of talking , he kept glancing between the two of us as if expecting something would happen .
though i had only tasted the wine once before , it now had an unfamiliar tang to it .
i stopped drinking , but pretended to do so by placing the rim of the glass against my lips .
nonetheless , the tiny amount that i had consumed was having an effect on me .
my head felt thick with sleep .
i feel so tired , i managed to blurt out .
i wanted tahn to think i was close to unconsciousness .
ignoring my words , he turned his attention to suvan who , by now , barely had her eyes open .
she had consumed more wine than me .
he finally spoke it is lonely being here .
my father and mother are dead , so i 'm the last one alive to carry out the work that my ancestors started so long time ago .
when i am gone , someone will need to carry on with my work and keep this place going .
i need someone to give me a son .
my jaw dropped in astonishment .
those words took a moment to register with suvan .
her head jerked up .
you ca n't mean me ?
she gasped weakly .
who else would i mean , my beautiful girl ?
i ca n't , i ca n't , she murmured and then abruptly slumped over onto the table .
i tried to stand up to protest , but i found my legs were like lead .
tahn smiled at me .
now you two get some sleep .
you will need it tomorrow since i have plenty more work for the both of you .
chapter 18 i fell partially unconscious , but i could still feel someone rummaging through my jacket .
after a moment , there was the sound of paper being unfolded .
i then heard tahn laugh , the sound piercing the layers of the drug .
i still felt strangely disconnected from reality , but now i had the strength to pry my eyes open .
what i saw at that moment filled me with revulsion .
tahn was standing over a sleeping suvan , running his hands greedily along her narrow body .
he was muttering to himself .
oh , she is a pretty one .
the anger inside me brushed away any lingering sleepiness i felt .
before tahn even knew what was happening , i rose from my chair and struck him solidly in the side of the head .
he moaned , crumpled over and slid off to the side .
suvan did not even react to this burst of violence but continued to sleep .
i pulled her roughly up from the chair .
i then began walking suvan around the room in a vain attempt to wake her up .
her toes dragged uselessly on the floor .
after a couple of circuits around the room , i began to tire so i placed her back on a chair .
i shook her shoulders and yelled in her face .
to my relief , suvan finally peeled opened her eyes .
she looked at me distastefully .
what is it ?
come , we must leave now !
what is your hurry ?
she asked sleepily before shutting her eyes again .
immediately , a light snore gurgled past her throat .
shaking my head , i decided to let her rest a few minutes more .
i would spend the time packing some food so we could leave before tahn awoke .
looking at the floor where had fallen , i saw to my astonishment that he had disappeared .
a quick search of the room revealed nothing .
tahn had managed to leave without a trace .
that was hardly surprising since he knew the building better than anyone .
i moved quickly , filling our canteens with water and the backpack with whatever food i could find .
on the dining table i found my map to the rebel hideout and the note from tai .
i wondered if tahn found any interest in either one .
i then shook suvan .
this time she managed to stay awake , her eyes blurry with sleep .
where is tahn ?
she asked , looking over the room .
i answered , im not sure what you remember , but he drugged the wine .
it seems that he wanted us to stay here permanently .
i was to be his slave while you were to be his wife .
she made a face of disgust .
that old man ?
i would never .
i dont think he was going to give us much choice in the matter .
he may be old , but he also knows much about the ancients .
who knows what he could have done ?
he could have killed me , so i wouldnt be around to protect you .
i suggest we leave before he comes back .
upon hearing this , suvan stood straight up with a new blaze of energy .
theres no time to waste .
we left , taking the door to the stairs .
the torch that tahn used was gone .
instead we propped the door open and started to descend into the gloom below .
the already dim natural light of the top floor was gone in just two flights of stairs .
we were soon lost in near darkness .
luckily some minor light still filtered from under the doors on the landings .
it was n't much , but it was enough for us to slowly make our way down to the first floor .
should we take the tunnels ?
i asked .
if we do n't have a light , then we will be lost down there .
but i fear the number of mutans on the surface .
it is still day after all .
not for long .
but we shall have to find somewhere to hide until night comes .
i will feel even safer when we leave this accursed city .
we reached the first floor without incident , neither seeing or hearing any sign of tahn .
i tried the door and to my relief , it opened easily enough .
the stench of death hit me square in the face , almost causing me to retch .
here there was a long corridor that led to the left and right .
along the walls were steel doors set every ten or so feet .
the floor was set with gray tile that had a thin film of dust .
in this dust there were wheel tracks that looked to have been made with the same cart i had used above .
suvan was covering her nose with a hand .
what is this place ? ''
she asked .
i do n't know , i replied .
from what ive already seen , i bet it is n't very pleasant .
trying the handle of the nearest door , it swung open noiselessly .
inside was a small room with two levels of shelves on each side of the wall .
the shelves had white sheets covering objects of differing sizes .
directly across from the door there was also a large unbroken window that was streaked with dirt .
metal bars covered the outside .
the remaining daylight filtered dimly through the glass .
a rubble filled street could be seen .
plucking up my courage , i entered the room and approached a shelf .
suvan remained in the doorway , watching me with large eyes .
i gritted my teeth and grabbed a corner of the sheet .
with a quick yank , the cloth fell to the floor .
what was revealed was a monstrous creature that looked like a childish version of a mutan .
i was reminded of the little groping hands of the mutan birthing room .
perhaps this one was not strong enough to live .
the misshapen eyes stared lifelessly at me .
i pulled another sheet free and my eyes were greeted by yet another mutan child .
i could n't make any sense of why tahn would keep such things .
turning my attention back to suvan , i saw that she was looking sick .
i said gently , come on , let 's go .
taking her by the hand , we continued on , looking for a way out of this madhouse .
at the end of the hallway there were two doors hung together .
they had small windows set at eye level .
the panes were yellow with age but were still transparent .
i peered through and saw a large room with a metallic table in the middle of the floor .
on top of this slab there was a motionless human like creature .
around this were two smaller tables with knives , rust stained saws , and jars filled with dark liquids .
it was the scene right out of a nightmare .
however there was another door on the far side of the room .
i did n't know where it lead , but i was n't about to find out .
what 's in there ?
suvan asked in a low voice full of fear .
i do n't want to know , i replied through clenched teeth .
i did n't want to let on how scared i actually was .
let 's go the other way . ''
as i turned , the double door down the other side of the hall swung open .
it was tahn .
behind him was a horde of mutans , their blades held at the ready .
with a wave of his hand , the creatures rushed down the hall towards us with a fearsome cry .
shoving suvan through the doors behind me , i reached into my pocket and took out the pistol .
there was n't enough time to take careful aim but i was bound to hit something the way they were bunched together .
with a flick of the trigger , the gun fired .
with a satisfying bang , the lead mutan fell like a rag .
but this did not stop the others who continued on with their frontal assault .
i pulled the trigger three more times , each shot easily finding a target .
the mutans fell over their dead compatriots into a mass of sprawling bodies .
i took this chance to duck behind the doors .
except for the corpse , the room was empty .
but the door on the other side was open .
with two strides , i was through .
it was some type of supply room filled with boxes and hardware .
suvan was cowering in the corner , her eyes wide with fear .
i quickly shut the door behind me , looking for a way to block it from further entry since there was no lock .
help me out !
i shouted at suvan .
she rose from her stupor and we began piling up boxes against the door .
this wo n't hold them , she hissed .
we cant go through them , i shot back .
whats that ?
suvan suddenly said as she pointed to a grating on the wall .
the stacked boxes against the door began to rock back and forth .
the mutans were trying to push their way through .
leaving suvan to steady our barricade of boxes , i quickly went over to the grate .
it was just large enough for a person to crawl through .
i saw that the screws on each corner were rusted with age .
with a hard yank , i pulled the ancient metal free from the wall , breaking the screws in the process .
a small tunnel of sorts led into the darkness .
get in there !
i shouted to suvan .
she was busy pushing against the boxes , but failing against the bulk of the massed mutans .
the door started to reluctantly open , revealing a clawing gray hand .
i impatiently reached over and physically pushed her towards the open grate .
suvan took the hint and disappeared into the tunnel .
i followed behind , pulling the grate in with me .
it closed just as the mutans broke open the door and rushed into the room .
i waited in the shadows , my pistol in hand .
the foul beasts screamed in rage when they found that we had somehow disappeared .
boxes and equipment were tossed aside as they vainly searched for us .
i took this moment and slowly crept backwards into the gloom of the narrow tunnel .
chapter 19 the tunnel was dark , narrow , and dusty smelling of many years past .
it was made of metal that rippled with sound as we went .
cobwebs got entangled in my hair and i could only imagine the state of my already abused clothing .
ahead i could see the dark form of suvan edging blindly forward .
to my relief , the sound of the mutans became more distant with every passing moment .
the passageway soon ended at an intersection that divided into a left and right passageway .
which way do you want to go ?
suvan whispered .
her frightened voice echoed against the metallic walls .
it doesnt matter , i replied with as much confidence as i could muster .
take any direction you want as long as it gets us away from those infernal creatures .
it will only be a matter of time before tahn figures out where we have gone .
but surely the mutans wo n't follow us down here .
they are afraid of the dark .
i chuckled .
once he has them organized and with torches , they will surely follow his orders , darkness or not .
without a further word , suvan took the right tunnel and i followed her .
he said he was a holy man here .
but why do the mutans follow his orders ?
suvan asked .
with a shudder , i hesitantly replied , he is actually more than a holy man .
he is their father .
she stopped mid crawl , making me nearly run into her .
what do you mean by that ?
keep moving and i 'll explain .
you 've been to many other cities of the ancients , have n't you ?
yes , of course , she said as she resumed moving .
you said yourself that you had never seen the mutans anywhere else .
this is the only place that you know where they live .
what makes this place so special ?
with conviction , she replied , it is the curse of the ancients .
the evil spawned these beasts from the decay and ruins .
they had to spawn from somewhere , i agreed .
but i have seen with my own eyes that the mutans are bred from the very hands of tahn and his ancestors .
she nearly shouted , but that 's impossible !
only allah can create and take life away .
i saw the only female mutan alive , i replied quietly .
how it breeds , i would rather not go into detail .
but tahn has a hand in raising and propagating the species .
he is building himself an army that will follow his every command .
it 's preposterous , she said with finality .
i let the matter drop since we had more pressing issues at hand .
the darkness was now totally complete so we had to cautiously feel our way forward .
the tunnel was also descending at an alarming rate .
since we had started at the ground floor that meant we were now headed somewhere towards the basement .
even worse were the new sounds reverberating against the walls .
it sounded like the mutans were now inside the tunnels , but i could n't tell how far away they were .
suvan stopped and swore .
we ca n't go any further !
we do n't have any choice .
but there is only a drop here , she warned .
my voice rose in frustration .
it ca n't be that far down .
we will have to risk it .
she let out a breath .
then she spun around , took my hands and began lowering herself down .
i held on tightly and listened as her feet kicked against the side of the smooth metallic walls .
i slowly inched forward , allowing her to drop further .
by the time my arms were stretched all the way into that pit , my heart was beating hard in my ears .
i think i can feel the bottom , suvan 's voice drifted from below .
she released my hands .
i immediately heard a light thud .
but any relief was quickly dispelled by a flicker of light coming from behind .
i turned my head and saw a burning torch .
it was a line of mutans coming down the inclined tunnel at a hesitant pace .
the ugly features of the lead mutan were made even worse by the shadows cast by the flickering flame .
pulling the pistol from my pocket , i fired .
the bullet hit the beast square in the face .
he pitched on his back and slid towards me , the torch flailing wildly in the air .
i stopped him with my foot and grabbed the still lit torch .
the other mutans put up a yell and charged at me .
not waiting any longer , i pushed myself backwards and dropped below .
i hit the floor with a loud metallic clang .
luckily , suvan had moved out of the way or she would have been crushed by my sudden flight .
the light of liberated torch revealed a small and dirty room with square openings on the walls and mummified mice on the floor .
suvan was staring at me with a wild face streaked with dust .
above us , i could hear the mutans screaming in panic since they had lost their only source of light .
but it would only be a matter of time before they came down here .
it would be easier for them to join us than returning along those twisty corridors from whence they came .
we 're trapped , suvan finally said .
nonsense , i replied .
there has to be some way out of here .
as you can see , there are nothing behind those openings but fans .
the ancients must have used these tunnels to move air through the building .
whoever maintained this building had to have access to this room !
i exclaimed .
without a further word , i began examining the walls with the aid of the torch .
it was as suvan said any egress was blocked by a fan composed of five blades grouped tightly together .
no one could fit past those rust encrusted fans .
any further investigation was halted by the arrival of a mutan from above .
he fell to the ground with a painful sounding crack .
before he had a chance to rise , i unsheathed and swiped at him with my sword .
the cut opened his throat , causing the creature to thrash and gurgle with a terrible moan .
his black blood stained the floor .
suvan only stared at this new horror for just a moment before she started to help me go over this ancient prison .
it was just a moment of time when i discovered a part of the metal wall that fit differently than the others .
it was flush but had an edge that could be a door .
i gave it a push with my hand but it did not budge .
in a near panic , i gave it a violent kick that sent a bolt of pain down my entire leg .
this time the thin metal buckled and a portion of the wall sprung open .
it was a small opening but just large enough for someone to pass through .
before i even said a word , suvan began struggling through the opening .
her legs kicked free , and she was gone .
before i could follow , two more mutans thudded on the metallic floor .
i spun around and drew my sword .
the foul creatures moved fast this time and rushed at me with their blades at the ready .
they slashed at me , and it took all of my feeble skills to dodge and parry their blows .
one blade sliced open my shirt , barely touching my flesh .
i took the lit torch and shoved it into the attacker 's face .
turning away , he clutched his eyes and screamed , dropping his blade .
with only one mutan left , i was able to use my longer reach .
after some quick work , my sword struck him straight in the chest .
he let out a groan and slid to the floor .
i took this chance and pushed myself through the opening .
shutting the trapdoor behind me , i found suvan waiting outside that accursed metal cage .
her expression was one of relief .
i handed her the torch .
the room we were in was a jumble of broken machinery that was covered in a layer of dust .
from the dim light of the torch , i could see a door sagging on its hinges .
from inside the metal enclosure came more noises .
it was the mutan and they were in a panic to escape .
it would only be a matter of minutes before they discovered the way out .
they will be free soon , i warned suvan .
im sorry i got so scared .
i hate to admit this to anyone , but i do not like confined spaces .
you arent the only one , i said soothingly .
but enough talk , we have to get out of this building before tahn sends more of those creatures after us .
i pushed aside the door , and the hinges gave way , causing it to fall forward with a crash .
going through , we found ourselves in a short hallway with a flight of stairs that went upwards and another steel door across the way from us .
it was the same place that tahn had used to enter the building from the subway .
the tunnels were not a place that i wanted to go , but right now there wasnt much choice .
chapter 20 i fear we will be lost down here , suvan said after just a few minutes of walking .
i fear the mutans more , i replied .
and tahn knows these tunnels better than we do .
we shall have to find a way out before we are trapped .
the subway tunnel went straight for a few hundred yards before slowly curving to the right .
other than an occasional rat , the only sound to be heard was our feet treading across the ground .
the light from the torch flickered uncertainly , and i wondered how much longer it would last before going out .
it would be hellish to be trapped down here without being able to see .
from behind , i thought i could hear the echo of many feet .
i turned to look over my shoulder and saw lights behind us , bouncing strange shadows against the tunnel walls .
the mutans had started their search of the subway .
i grabbed suvans hand and pulled her along at a faster pace .
we have to hurry , i said , fighting down the panic i felt welling inside .
we began running in a headlong flight , unconcerned of what could lie ahead .
but no matter what our speed was , the lights from behind grew in intensity since the mutans could move at an untiring pace .
we came to a split in the tunnel where the rail lines separated .
without thinking , i took the rightmost one .
next to me , i could hear suvans breath with winded rasps .
she was tiring , and i wasnt doing much better .
we only made it a few yards in when suvan stopped .
i have to rest , she gasped out .
i fear that drugged wine is still affecting me .
we cant !
theyre right behind us !
i screamed at her .
but my entreaties were too late .
there was a flash of light behind us .
as i looked , a group of torch holding mutans was at the mouth of this new tunnel .
they saw us , but to my amazement , they did not proceed any further .
instead they stopped , their eyes warily examining the tunnel walls .
i did not take the time to consider their caution , but instead i dragged suvan further along .
to my relief , the mutans did not follow us into this branch of the tunnel .
i should have paused to wonder why , but my first thought was flight .
but before i could think further , there was a gentle patter of feet echoing off the walls in front of us .
my first thought was the mutans had us trapped , but since it remained dark ahead , i knew something different was coming from the recesses of this underground maze .
there was also a rank , unfamiliar smell .
at my feet , i could now see piles of white bones a skull leered at me .
the sound of footsteps grew louder .
i stopped and pushed suvan to the side .
she crouched near the tunnel wall , notched an arrow and drew back her bow .
the torch in my hand was flickering dangerously low , but there was still enough light to see the approaching horror .
instead of a multitude of creatures , there was only a single one .
but such a beast will forever inhabit my deepest nightmares and most terrible fears .
the outlandish mutation was like a centipede but made of human parts .
where there should have been legs there were instead a multitude of arms with gray mottled hands .
these horrific appendages supported a thick maggot like body some twelve feet in length .
at one time the flesh may have been pink , but years of underground living had turned it black with dirt and grime .
the head , if i could call it that , was miniscule compared to the bulk of the body .
it looked like the head of infant , but the malicious row of teeth and red eyes certainly held no childish innocence .
suvan let go with her bow and the arrow pierced the body , sinking deeply into the bloated flesh .
the creature let out a horrific scream that sounded like a child crying in pain , but at a volume that made my head dizzy .
the blood that came out was thick and black .
but still the beast kept on coming , the appendages moving at a terrific rate .
without a further thought , i fired my pistol , the snap of the bullet echoing down the hallway .
the shot hit an arm , but did not slow the nightmare down .
i pulled the trigger again but nothing happened except for a click that at that moment sounded terribly loud .
in the haste of my escape , i had forgotten to reload !
there was no time for that anymore .
i slipped the gun into my pocket and reached for my sword .
before i could draw the blade , the creature was on top of me , raising its girth to flail at me with a wall of arms .
it moved with amazing speed that took me by surprise .
i was hit with a terrific number of blows that sent me reeling away , staggering as i fought to stay upright .
the twang of suvans bow rang next to my ear .
once again , the beast howled with an ear splitting scream as an arrow sunk deeply into that hideous body .
aim for the head !
i shouted as i drew out my sword .
the thing came at me , raising its body once again to rain a series of blows .
but this time i had my sword ready .
i swept the blade towards those flailing arms , cutting a ragged line into the flesh .
a great spasm shot through the body as it recoiled in pain .
but still the attack did not stop .
this time the creature charged head on and engulfed me with a tangle of arms , the weight of the body pushing me down to the ground .
my sword arm was pinned , and the torch wrenched from my grip .
the rubbery mass choked the air out of me .
i couldnt breathe .
the world began to spin away into darkness .
i felt my consciousness slip away .
the beast gave a sudden violent shudder and rolled off me .
my ribs ached with pain , but felt the rush of air greet my lungs .
i opened my eyes and saw suvan standing over me .
she was looking at me with concern in her eyes , holding the flickering torch in her hand .
are you alright ?
she asked .
i think so , i gasped .
help me up .
with her assistance , i was soon on my feet again .
my entire body ached but luckily nothing seemed to be broken .
i saw that the creature was dead , it 's head pierced by a well placed arrow .
when it wrestled you to the ground , it gave me the chance to aim , she explained .
it was a near thing , i gratefully agreed .
but let 's move on before the mutans get brave enough to follow us down here .
i just hope we do n't meet anything else like that , she said with disgust .
it was horrible .
we moved on , walking carefully past the monster .
to my relief , we soon came upon a station platform .
in a few moments we were climbing a flight of garbage strewn stairs and up into the night .
the buildings loomed above us .
we were still in the heart of the city , but it was still a joy to be free of the subways .
before we reached the very top of the stairs , suvan extinguished the torch and then grabbed my arm .
let me take a look before we proceed any further , she whispered in my ear .
after peering over the edges of the stairwell , suvan then motioned me to join her .
i saw that the street was empty of any living thing , but was crowded with wrecked cars and litter .
it appeared that the entire population of the city tried to flee at the same time but were destroyed by some monstrous weapon .
at suvan 's prompting , we began cautiously moving forward .
due to the wrecked cars on the street , we had to take the sidewalk which was strewn with cracked plastic containers , broken glass , metallic wrappers and broken bits from the buildings above .
the buildings towered above us , casting ungodly long shadows pointing away from the moon above .
it was deathly quiet except for a cool breeze that gusted down the street , kicking up trash .
we have to find a place to hide , so we can rest , suvan said , breaking the silence .
i know , but where ?
we could have stayed down in the subway .
up here the mutans will be sure to find us .
suvan visibly shuddered .
no , we will be safer up here .
i will not go down there again .
i would rather die .
after walking another block , we came to a building that must have been a store at one time .
the glass front was long gone but inside , plastic mannequins with tattered clothing stared lifelessly at us .
the doors had been torn open at some time and the ground inside was littered with the decayed goods of the past .
this will do , suvan said with relief .
after we rest , we can scavenge this place for something useful .
we entered , stepping cautiously through the scattered trash .
the elements had done the most damage , though this place could have also been looted by the ancients or even the mutans .
as we progressed , the litter started to give away to collapsed shelves and racks that still held moth eaten and rotted clothing .
we setup camp in the back recesses of the store .
suvan fell into a fitful sleep on a heap of tattered clothing while i took the first watch .
as she gently snored , i went over our provisions and wondered how long we could live on our few scraps of food and only two canteens of water .
there was a long trip ahead of us and we werent going to get out of this valley with the supplies we had .
putting those thoughts aside , i reloaded my pistol with the last remaining bullets .
i now had no extra ammunition and could only use the five shots i had left .
based on what we had run into so far , this wasnt going to be enough to get out of the valley alive .
i was glad that i still had the sword and the power of suvans bow .
chapter 21 taking turns sleeping , we spent the rest of the night and the next day hidden in that store .
with the rising of the sun , mutans were outside , busily marching through the streets .
perhaps they were searching for us .
while i slept , suvan scoured through the littered remnants around us and found some additional clothing for me to wear .
it was a green jacket made of a plastic type material that was impervious to water which could prove to be useful if we ever reached the mountains .
as darkness came , the streets became deserted once again .
we left our camp and began traversing through the empty streets .
the skeletal buildings above continued their silent watch , their oppressive presence a constant reminder of days past .
it was now a gigantic tomb and a home to a hundred horrors .
it was also a monument to the folly of mankind a civilization that could build such majesty and yet destroy itself so easily .
would we ever see such destruction again ?
my thoughts were broken by the whispering of suvan .
she said , that horror in the subway , do you think there are others ?
i hesitated before answering , i do not know .
but i do wonder how such things are created .
did tahn have a hand in such a monster ?
or was it just the product of the ancient 's folly ?
or both , she replied .
from your description , he has taken the mutations and turned them to his own purpose .
it is evil and against the will of allah .
he will be punished for such folly .
but right now we have other concerns than his morality .
we must get back to the trail and escape this city .
our rations are too low to survive far in the desert .
our food and water are low , i agreed .
that is not my only concern .
we are still now on the run from the mutans .
they know that we are in the city .
at tahn 's bidding , they will be searching for us throughout the day and perhaps even the night .
i have never seen them use torches before , so that shows that they are adapting to new circumstances .
they are still afraid of the dark , i said confidently .
it was only their obedience to tahn that allowed them to temporarily overcome their fear .
anyway , we can find plenty of places to hide during the day .
we shall get to the end of the valley and then to the safety of the mountains .
she gave a sigh of despair .
i should never have come on this journey .
it will only lead to my death .
tell me , have you not thought of what lies at the end of this valley ?
the mutans will only have to guard the exit with enough numbers to stop us from breaking through .
it will be impossible for us to reach the desert without running into them .
it is probably the same story with the entrance .
we are trapped inside here like rats unless we can think of some clever way out .
then we shall have to find another way , i answered crossly .
perhaps the subway tunnels come out somewhere else .
i 'm not going back down there , she said firmly .
i would rather die from the blade of a mutan than visit those accursed tunnels again .
you may have your wish , i spat back angrily .
do you have any better ideas ?
she did not immediately answer , but stopped and listened to make sure our conversation had not drawn the attention of some creature of the night .
after a moment , she replied softly .
i do n't know if it can be done , but it is better than the alternatives we can climb out .
i was stunned by this idea and felt foolish for not coming up with it on my own .
we stopped talking momentarily to scramble over a rusted car that had blocked the sidewalk .
when we were back down on the sidewalk , i finally replied , the walls of those cliffs are steep .
do you really think it is possible to climb them ?
we can only try .
but first we shall have to find some rope , and if possible , some more food .
once we hit the desert , there isnt going to be much time for hunting .
im also worried about our water .
once were out in the wasteland , its easy to go through a canteen a day .
do you know where we can get some more ?
she shook her head .
ive never been beyond the river .
we either have to return to it , or depend on luck .
we spent the rest of the night walking and being on the lookout for any mutans .
since they depended on torchlight when traveling at night , it was no problem to find a way around them .
the few patrols that we did see were easy to dodge .
as the light of morning came , we found the remnants of a bank to hole up in .
the floor was covered with blackened silver and now green copper coins that had strange faces and unknown writing imprinted on the metal .
the vault door was shut and did not budge when i tried to move the ancient door .
i suppose it did not matter what useless things resided inside , but i was still curious .
we spent the day inside , taking turns keeping watch on the street outside .
except for the sound of passing mutans , we were undisturbed .
by the middle of the next night , we had cleared the heart of the city .
the buildings were now becoming fewer in number and growing even less frequent the further we went .
during our march , suvan continued to search for a certain type of store where we could find the proper tools to scale the cliff side .
it was nearing dawn when she found what she was looking for .
it was a large building with a front that must have been all glass at one time .
these windows had been broken long ago , the shards now covered with sand .
the roof was half collapsed , allowing the moonlight to shine from above .
most of the goods inside had been scattered or destroyed by the elements , but towards the back of the store there were still intact shelves .
suvan entered and immediately began searching through the dusty items .
when she had finished , there was a pile of goods at her feet .
she said , this is what the ancients called a sporting goods store .
i 've found some good rope here .
when daylight comes , i 'll take a closer look and see what else we can scavenge for food .
rope ?
anything so old would be sure to disintegrate under our weight .
she laughed .
this is not like the ropes of your village , made with hemp that has been twisted together it is made of plastic like the one use by tahn when he rescued us from that pit .
such a material will last many of our lives and still be strong enough to hold many times our weight .
but what of food and drink ?
i asked .
water will still be a problem , but the ancients also had a way of storing food that would make it last for a very long time .
i shook my head .
like that rope ?
plastic food ?
no , you silly man , she shot back .
the people of old ate food much like we do , but had ways of storing and preserving food inside sealed containers .
i didnt understand .
like canning ?
that can keep fruit fresh for many years , but not over the centuries .
no one knows how they did it , but some of their food can last for a very long time indeed .
a store such as this carries this special type that was used for camping , which the ancients apparently did as a hobby .
though im not sure why anyone would do such an activity .
when it is lighter out , we shall examine this place further .
as usual , we took turns sleeping until the early dawn light began slanting down through the demolished roof .
suvan then went to work while i kept watch for prowling enemies .
from a hidden position inside the store , i could watch the street which thankfully remained empty of mutans .
when she had completed her task , suvan called me over to show the fruits of her labors .
in front of her feet was a small pile of boxes and metallic pouches .
these are the best ones that i could find , she said .
what are they ?
i asked as i began poking hungrily at the rations .
food though food such as this requires the addition of water to be edible .
we shall still need to find more of that .
remember it is important to smell and perhaps sample the insides for spoilage unless you do n't mind being sick to your stomach .
we have beef and chicken soup , rice , lasagna , and even scrambled eggs .
i looked at the packaging and found the writing indecipherable .
tell me , suvan , can you actually read the writing of the ancients ?
she shrugged .
i know a few words .
my father taught me what he knew .
it really comes with the job .
after visiting so many cities , you start getting a feel for the language .
i made a decision .
i sat suvan down and told her everything that had happened to me and why i was really going to the mountains .
when i was done , i pulled tai 's note from my tunic , i showed it to her .
this may say something important .
can you make anything out ?
she took the paper from my hand .
after a minute of concentrated studying , she shook her head .
i 'm afraid it 's far too technical for me .
the words i know are simple , ones that dealt with my father 's work mostly regarding matters of food and goods .
this is something beyond my understanding .
do you think it is really important ?
i honestly do n't know , but i lost everything because of it .
i was told that the rebels at the mountains can read this language .
that 's one of the reasons i was forced to go on this journey , so they would be warned of the mujadeens plans .
keep it safe until then .
and thank you for showing it to me , mikel .
its nice to know that you trust me .
chapter 22 we stayed at the store the rest of the day , hidden behind a tall empty shelf .
it was there , using some precious water from my canteen , that i first sampled the food of the ancients .
it was beef stew that was too salty and rather bland , but the meal was still satisfying to my hungry stomach .
suvan ate chicken soup that i also sampled it was even saltier than my beef stew .
it was strange to consume something so old , but my innards did not rebel .
with a full belly , i dozed next to suvan until the coming of night .
suvan shook my shoulder until i awoke .
we then gathered our supplies , left the store and went into the night .
i carried the lengths of rope coiled over my right shoulder .
suvan took the food .
we changed directions , this time striking due north towards the cliff walls .
the air was still with the hidden menace of the night , but there was no sign of the mutans or any other horrific creature .
we went past the now familiar ruins and destroyed cars , only taking the precaution of not losing our footing in the rubble and trash that littered the streets .
sometime later we had reached , without incidence , the cliff .
at this point they rose to dizzying heights , the shadowed wall cold and black .
in the cover of the night , i could see nary a handhold or crevice to navigate .
the wall creatures i had seen before were above now dark lumps , moving slowly without the heat of the sun .
we can not hope to climb this at night , i commented after i had examined the wall with my hands .
then let 's continue along the wall , she replied .
the height should drop as we get close to the exit .
that will make the climb easier for us .
i readily assented since i had some misgivings with this idea .
it was going to be difficult climbing that rock , so any lessening of the height would help .
we began picking our way westward , heading towards the exit of this accursed valley .
there was no rest on our journey , and my feet were aching when suvan finally stopped and pointed .
there was a glow on the horizon ahead , but this light had nothing to do with the rising of the sun which would have been behind us .
the morning was still too early for that .
it has to be the mutans , i said , thinking that suvans prediction had come true .
they had closed off the exit and lit bonfires .
that way was surely guarded from escape .
then we can go no further , suvan said .
we are too close to them now . ''
i looked at the wall above .
it was now shorter than before , but still apparently smooth and impassable .
can we even climb this section ?
it looks no better than before .
her reply was tinged with exhaustion .
for now , let 's just rest .
it 's been a long night .
but to answer your question , we can not go back and we can go no further , so we shall have to climb .
i have seen the cliff side in the daylight before and there are ways up , thought it looked difficult .
it is best that we wait until daylight comes so we can find the necessary footholds .
we spent the rest of the night talking and eating the food of the ancients .
there was only a splash of water left in my water bottle , and i knew that suvan had very little remaining in her own canteen .
but i was n't about to return to the river or search out another source within the valley .
we had to escape and take the consequences of the wasteland beyond .
as the dawn broke along the eastern sky , i could finally make out the irregularities on the rock face .
it was a good one hundred feet to the desert above .
though the handholds and outcroppings were few , i could see that the ascent was possible , provided care was taken .
we laid out the length of rope , tying ourselves together with some twenty feet of distance between us .
the other lengths of rope were to be used to create safety points to tie ourselves to in case one of us should slip .
suvan went first , nimbly finding a foothold and then a handhold to pull up on .
she went on and as the rope grew tauter , i followed , trying to use the same spots that she had found .
it was slow going .
i felt like a fly on a wall .
to my surprise when i looked down , i saw that i was already some thirty feet off the ground .
the wind was picking up here , making me feel more vulnerable as it whistled past my ears .
the sun was already baking the wall , turning the coldness of night into hot stone .
the wall creatures were off to the left , grazing on spots of lichen like content cattle .
the rope creaked .
i looked up and saw suvan stop at an outcropping .
she took a length of rope and tied it around her waist before tying it onto the rock .
that was to be our lifeline in case one of us fell .
i brushed that terrible thought aside and instead concentrated on the task at hand .
foot after agonizing foot , i slowly pulled myself up using the rope and sparse footholds .
my feet hurt and my throat was parched with thirst , but i fought on .
i was about half way up when i heard a faint cry from below .
craning my neck , i looked below and saw nothing .
but i still felt a growing apprehension .
my muscles strained and i pulled myself up another foot using a small handhold .
the cry then became louder .
i looked once more , and this time i saw a single mutan staring at me .
he was quite a distance away , standing on top of a pile of rubble in the middle of a street .
the damned thing was calling to his brothers , and it would only be a few minutes before he had a whole host of them to fire arrows at us .
i 'm sure the infernal creatures would find it great sport to have us killed in such a manner .
i called out to suvan above , we have company !
hurry !
suvans lithe figure began moving rapidly up the rock face .
i was surprised by her speed and had a hard time keeping up .
several times the rope went taut , causing her to slow until i could gain another foothold .
she paused once again to tie another rope to an outcropping , tying the other end to her waist after removing the previous one .
i took this moment to look below where i saw more and more mutans running in our direction .
it was going to be close .
with a sudden burst of energy , suvan finally pushed herself up and over the ledge above .
that only left me alone on the rock face .
i clambered past the last outcropping where i rested my foot and took a much needed breath .
this was a mistake .
an arrow shot past within inches of my head and bounced off the rock face .
i looked down and saw a single mutan drawing his bow on me again .
i started climbing again with my back clenched , ready to receive that deadly iron tip .
i heard another cry , but this sounded like a creature in pain .
i took the chance to look down again and saw that the mutan was lying on his back , an arrow protruding from its back .
not thirty yards away stood a figure wearing a black robe with a hood that covered the face .
he was carrying a bow .
with a wave in my direction , the stranger ran off to disappear into some ruined buildings that were close by .
i had forgotten all about my mysterious follower and could only wonder how he fit into all of this .
however my respite was temporary since the dead mutan was now replaced by several of his comrades who were still very much alive .
this small knot of creatures gathered together , drawing back their bows to release a hail of arrows .
i saw all of this with just a glance as my hand found the ledge above .
with a savage yank , i pulled myself over .
the black arrows of the mutans flew over my head and ended up landing in the soft sand beyond .
suvan helped me up .
her face was flushed as she said , we must hurry before they leave the valley to hunt us down .
it is our bad fortune that we were seen climbing .
we took off in a run , heading north into the desert .
the trackless wasteland felt strangely empty compared to the crowded , ruined city below .
there was no shade here from the heat of the relentless sun , and i was soon sweating profusely .
i stopped momentarily to rest but that only made suvan angry .
there is no time !
she shouted .
do you want the mutans to capture us after all that work ?
did you see that man dressed in black ?
i asked , breathing hard .
what are you talking about ?
she replied impatiently .
you must have seen him !
he saved my life by killing that mutan before the infernal creature could draw a bead on me .
she shook her head .
i didnt see anyone .
but there isnt any time to talk right now .
it will not take much effort for the mutans to track us on this desert sand .
our only way to escape is by out distancing them .
i shook my canteen .
it was nearly empty .
we can not last out here long with the water we have .
do you have a better idea ?
she snapped .
now it was my turn to shake my head .
there was no way we could stand and fight against such an overpowering force .
our only option was to flee and hope for the best .
we began running again .
the sun grew higher , baking the yellow sand into a fiery haze .
with her lithe figure , suvan easily outpaced me .
whenever she would gain too much distance , she would stop to let me catch up .
this only angered me since this gave her time to rest while i was constantly moving .
her words of encouragement did little to help either , but only made my mood more malicious .
i really wasnt aware of the danger we were facing until i had labored up to the crest of a high sand dune .
forced to stop at the very top to rest , i turned and looked behind us .
there , on the shimmering edge of the horizon , i could make out a mass of figures moving towards us .
they were moving at a good pace , easily faster than us .
it wouldnt be too much longer until they caught up .
shaking my head , i wondered if the horrors of the city would have been a better place to die .
on we ran .
my lungs were wracked with pain , and my legs felt like leaden stumps that only moved because i willed them to do so .
my throat was parched , and my tongue felt thick in my mouth , but i dare not drink my last remnant of water .
i dont know what kept me going perhaps it was the fear of being cooked alive by those evil creatures .
or perhaps it was the fear of coming so far only to be defeated .
but even the strongest of wills and the halest of bodies can take so much .
this was too much .
i could no further .
i dropped to my knees , the heat of the sand engulfing me like a wave .
taking the cap off of my water bottle , i swallowed the last stale remnant .
it tasted like the best wine in the world .
suvan had stopped and quickly ran over to join me .
she was flushed with heat and looked as if she could barely stand herself .
we must keep going , she gasped .
i cant , i replied through my uneven breathing .
go on without me .
i wont leave you here , she replied testily .
they will kill you .
we can both stay and fight .
i shook my head .
that will only result in the death of both of us .
no , i will stay here and slow them down .
anyways , im only stopping you from going faster .
i reached into my pocket and took out the note .
here , take this with you .
head towards the mountains and deliver this message for me .
she took the paper from my hands and stared at it stupidly before she slipped it inside a pocket .
suvan then leaned over and kissed my sweaty forehead .
without a further word , she left , running as hard as she could .
chapter 23 what does one think of when one 's imminent death is marching from the horizon ?
at this point i really was n't thinking of anything at all .
i was just too tired .
i was still thirsty and wanted nothing more than a glass of cold water .
but since that was n't available , i instead readied myself for the final end .
i gave a prayer to allah , hoping he would recognize my bravery .
other than that , i mostly watched as the mutan drew ever closer .
there were at least three dozen of the foul creatures .
i would have no chance against such numbers .
the mutans normally aggressive behavior seemed oddly muted since , as they drew closer , their pace slowed .
perhaps it was their suspicious nature , or perhaps it was the strange sight of a single man sitting in the sand with no mind to flee or express terror .
maybe they suspected a trap , for their marching line bent in the middle , while the flanks swept to my left and right .
the soon had me encircled with no means to escape .
the circle of silent mutans slowly drew closer together like a noose .
i stood up .
their forward motion stopped .
then one of them laughed , causing the others to join in .
whatever evil thoughts passed those twisted minds , i could only imagine , but there was no pity or chance of appeal here .
with a loud rasp , the mutans all drew their swords at the same time , dropping their bows to the sand .
then they started towards me again , a tight leer of cruelty frozen on the terrible faces .
i remained motionless , barely keeping my own fear in check .
i had experienced too much suffering and too much pain to be truly scared anymore .
if i was going to die , it was going to be without a whimper .
without a single word , i drew out my blade as i suddenly charged towards the first mutan who was straight across from me .
my movement threw him off .
he did not have time to respond as the sword point drove deeply into his heart .
with a wrench , i pulled the sword free and shoved past the dying mutan .
i was free of the circle but still not out of danger .
it was only a temporary respite until i would eventually be surrounded once again .
i was merely putting of the inevitable , buying time for suvan to escape .
without any fear , the nearest mutan on the right rushed at me .
a few parries of the swords , and he went down with a slash to the neck .
but there were soon two more to take his place .
my longer reach helped , but i had a hard time keeping their slashes and jabs at bay .
after i downed one with a blow to the neck , the other slipped under my guard and slashed at my leg .
i began bleeding heavily on my thigh .
the sight of my wound put the other mutans into a bloody fury .
three more joined in the battle .
this time i had no place to turn and escape .
as i took a step back , i kept my blade swinging in a defensive pattern .
the whirl of the sword sang in the heat of the air , crashing with metallic clangs that were loud enough to make me blink .
another mutan got in close , and his cheek ended up getting sliced open .
but he still managed to lunge forward and pierced my free arm .
the pain was white hot .
the blood bled freely from this wound , making me dizzy with a cold sickness .
i began to lose track of time .
the sun beat on my back with relentless ferocity .
my throat was parched , feeling as dry as the desert floor .
my aching sword arm could barely keep up with the persistent attacks .
there was no chance to rest .
there was no chance to live .
to the mutans , i was only a new sport to be enjoyed like a trapped rat with sharp teeth .
my sword was now black with their blood , the once sharp blade nicked by a hundred blows .
i do n't know how many of them fell to my sword , but their attack never faltered .
my legs soon buckled from exhaustion .
i fell to my knees .
my remaining enemies gave a horrific cheer .
i was too weak to lift my sword arm .
i was too weak to do anything but watch my own death .
one of the mutans , a particularly loathsome specimen with twisted lips and black eyes , cautiously approached me with his sword at the ready .
i could do nothing as he jabbed me hard in the chest .
the steel bit into my flesh with a burst of white hot pain .
the creature laughed as i screamed with a cracked voice .
i felt my blood trickle down my chest , spreading like a blossom of shock .
the mutan lifted his sword high in the air , ready to deliver the killing blow .
i closed my eyes and fell onto my chest , the sand clogging my nose and mouth .
my heart pounded in my chest , sounding like a drumbeat in my ears .
i heard the mutans give a blood curdling howl , but still the final blow never came .
i opened my dirt encrusted eyes and slowly turned my aching head .
the mutans were running .
it dawned on that there were horses !
men on horses were charging into the mutans who were rushing to pick up their discarded bows .
the speed of the horses won out .
there was a flash of spear points , and a dozen mutans died on the spot .
i could only watch as the remnants of the mutans broke to flee , only to be run down one by one .
the men on the horse were dressed in sand colored robes with hoods that covered the head but left the face open .
i was reminded of the mysterious follower dressed in black .
nonetheless , these men did their job with a grim determination and only letup when the final mutan had been killed .
when the slaughter had finally stopped , my rescuers lined up and raised their spears .
there were at least twenty of them .
they gave an ear piercing war cry as another rider rode up .
he was a man with his hood pushed back to his shoulders .
his hair was iron gray , and the face was lined from years of living in the sun .
riding on the same saddle behind him , with her arms wrapped around his waist , was suvan .
she released her grip , jumped down and was soon at my side .
i was too weak to move , so i just smiled weakly at her .
praise to the prophet , you are still alive !
she exclaimed .
her hand then began to run over my body , examining my wounds in earnest .
who are these men ?
i heard myself asking .
my voice sounded faint and faraway .
they are the rebels , she replied as she began to bound my wounds .
the sun above was cut off by the shadow of a man .
it was the rider that had borne suvan with him .
he stared at me , his blue eyes as cold as ice .
i am vinc , he said .
it is a miracle that you killed so many mutans single handed .
this day will be long remembered in song for i have never seen a man slay eight of these creatures by himself .
i tried to nod , but the motion was too much for me .
their faces faded away .
i slipped into darkness .
chapter 24 i awoke in a bath of unnatural white light that made me blink with annoyance .
i was lying on top of a bed with a mass of pillows that supported my aching head .
my body felt stiff all over with a dull throbbing pain reminding me that i was still alive .
above , there was a strange light that was not made out of flame or from the power of the sun .
turning my head , i looked over the room .
next to me was a small white table that held clean bandages , several needles and a length of thread .
the walls were painted white and so was the closed door .
the curtains on the single window were drawn .
not knowing where i was , i decided to investigate .
getting out of bed proved to be too much for me .
as i pulled the covers back and put my bare foot on the cold floor , i tried to stand up without success .
instead , i sort of sprawled over , falling down to the floor on my knees .
i found i was dressed in nothing but a thin white robe .
help !
i cried out .
the door was soon opened .
in strode a prim looking woman of undetermined years .
like the room , she was dressed in white a frock and a pair of paints .
the doctor will have a fit !
what are you doing out of bed ?
she demanded to know , her ugly face creased with worry .
where am i ?
she answered with a barely hidden smile .
at the hospital , of course .
it 's amazing that you are alive .
it took several transfusions , and the doctor had a most interesting time stitching you back together .
transfusion ?
i asked out of ignorance .
she laughed with all the mirth of a practiced gravedigger .
blood , my simple man .
you lost too much so the doctor had to put some back in .
i felt faint , feeling sick to my stomach thinking of some stranger 's blood circulating inside of me .
now be a good patient , and let me help you get back to bed .
i readily complied to her wishes .
after all i did not have the strength to resist .
after i was safely tucked away again , i asked , tell me , where is my companion ?
i was traveling with a girl named suvan . ''
she said patiently , do n't worry , she 's spent hours at your side .
the poor thing was just tired keeping watch over you , so she went and got some sleep in the other room .
i nodded drowsily .
now i suggest you get some more sleep yourself .
time is the best healer of all , and you still have a long way to go before you are better .
with those final words , she turned and left , closing the door as she went .
falling back to sleep was easier than expected .
i dreamed of nothing .
it seemed like only minutes had passed when i suddenly felt my shoulder being gently shaken .
i opened my eyes and saw suvan was there , sitting at my side .
she was wearing a new tunic and pants that were just a little too large for her build .
i smiled at her , glad to know that both of us were still alive .
i 'm so happy to see you , she said , her face beaming with excitement .
where are we ?
i croaked out .
that is a long story , mikel .
after i left you in the desert , i ran ahead , fearing that would be the last i would ever see of you .
i soon ran into those horsemen , and once i explained the situation , they rode off to your rescue .
i 'm afraid they were rather suspicious of me at first , but once i told them of our plight , they were ready to help .
their leader , that man vinc , had his men charge right into the mutans .
it was splendid to see what they did to them .
when i saw how wounded you were , i grieved .
i thought i was going to lose you .
you looked to be at death 's door .
and i was , i admitted .
afterward , vinc had his men tie you to a horse with a rider there to help .
we then headed towards the mountains , dodging past mutan patrols .
during the days journey , you remained unconscious .
that 's too bad since you missed seeing the wonders that i have .
the rebels here live in such a way that astounds me .
it 's like visiting the time of the ancients .
why look at the light above us .
it 's a bulb that runs of electricity !
vinc has been busy showing me everything .
i looked up at the shining light and found it not very wonderful .
it was too bright and artificial for my tastes .
she continued on , you were brought here where a doctor stitched up your wounds and healed you .
how many days have i been here ?
i asked .
it has only been two days .
and the note ?
she shrugged .
i gave that to vinc .
he said he would deliver it to the council on your behalf .
once you have the strength , we shall meet with them .
i spent the next two days in bed .
during this time i ate plenty of food and slept the hours away .
suvan came to visit me when she could she was spending much of her free time visiting the local sights .
i was jealous since from my window , i could only see pine trees and granite slabs .
it seemed like a long time but the doctor finally released me from the hospital , allowing me to tour the rebel town in the company of suvan .
she proved to be a good guide and explained everything to me .
it was a really a small village protected by the natural formations of rock and stone .
there was stream that ran cold from the snow of the mountain peaks .
this water also ran through a dam which generated the electricity .
through scavenging the city in the valley , they had managed to find the necessary light bulbs and material to run the wiring .
it was amazing to think that something so simple could make power to create light at the flick of a switch .
this same stream also provided running water that was pumped to the various buildings most of the four or five dozen homes were simple , thatched huts insulated with straw and mud .
they were grouped together along the dirt paths that sprawled in random directions .
but the hospital and town hall were built by the ancients .
much like my own hotel , they were made out of brick with tarred roofs .
the town hall had a small library with books and even a workshop where the men tried to replicate the work of the old days .
it was a fantastic enterprise , considering their limited manpower .
after we had gone through the town hall , suvan and i stopped by the river to watch the water rush by .
i was grateful for the rest .
we sat together .
i wanted to hold her hand but felt strangely shy , even though we had shared the most terrible adventures together .
so what do you think of this place ?
suvan asked , interrupting my thoughts .
impressive , but i was expecting something more , i replied .
like what ?
i waved my hands in the direction of the houses .
there must only be two or three hundred residents here .
that 's hardly an army that could take on the mujadeen who are spread wide and far .
the warlord is said to lead a massive army that could easily crush something as insignificant as this .
suvan shook her head in disagreement .
but look at their technology !
they have done far more here than anywhere else i 've seen .
while other towns are wasting away , they are building anew .
light and water on demand do not give you men to fight with .
you are right , a new voice interrupted .
it was vinc .
this time he was dressed in the rough clothes of a laborer , but with that stern face , no one would mistake him for a simple worker .
but we do well with what we have .
now it is time for you to meet with the council .
come with me .
as i stood to follow , i saw him give suvan a look of longing that gave me an twinge of jealousy .
i would have to keep my eye on these two .
chapter 25 we met the council inside a large meeting room located within the town hall .
the walls here were festooned with orange and black signs that had cryptic arrows and ancient words written on them .
there was a long table where five men sat .
the center seat was occupied by a thin man with long black hair that was peppered with gray .
on either side of him sat his companions who looked at me with little interest .
that is , except for the member on the far left , who watched me carefully as though expecting the worst .
he had a pudgy face , white hair , and a fat stomach that bulged against the table .
the man sitting in the middle motioned us forward .
i am ibam , elected leader of the council , '' he said .
his voice was flat and without emotion .
a closer examination of the man showed a lined face caused by too much worry , a long nose , and cold gray eyes .
i gave a little bow .
my name is mikel .
this is my companion suvan .
we came here after a long and perilous journey . ''
he held up a piece of paper that i recognized as the note that i had brought so far .
this message is from the scout tai ?
tell me , what happened to him ? ''
i cleared my throat .
i was just a simple hotel owner until tai came to my place to stay .
he left during the night for some mission that this council gave him .
he was grievously wounded during this time .
he somehow came back to my place where he wrote me that note .
i 'm afraid he died soon afterward . ''
but the mujadeen , do they know you are here ? ''
i shook my head and said , i do not think so . ''
i did not mention the stranger in black following me since i did not know how he could have tracked us here .
when the sub vizier rasid found that tai was dead , he assumed i was involved .
my maid was assaulted and killed .
my hotel was burned to the ground .
i was left for dead and only lived because of the actions of your man kalam .
it was kalam who sent me on this errand , telling me that i would find sanctuary here . ''
he raised an eyebrow .
we shall speak of that later .
tell me , can you read what is on this note ? ''
i shook my head .
i can not read the script of the ancients .
i have seen their words throughout the ruins in the valley , but they are still meaningless to me . ''
for now , i thought it best not to mention suvan 's knowledge of the language .
please , ibam , '' the council member on the left said , get to the point .
of course he does not know the words of the ancients .
only the most learned of men do . ''
ibam smiled at his fellow council member for only a moment .
i will , lydon .
he returned his attention back to me .
thanks to kalam , we already know of you , mikel .
his reports has mentioned your hotel several times .
but we must be careful that you are not a spy . ''
he raised in hand before i could protest .
i admit that we are merely a thorn in the side of the mujadeen .
they have tried to send spies before , but we are a little difficult to find unless you know the way .
you are lucky that vinc here found you .
he is our most able soldier .
now tell us what happened to you in city of the wasteland . ''
i gave them an outline of our adventure , leaving nothing out but the private moments that i enjoyed with suvan .
when i had finally finished telling my story , ibam leaned back into his chair and nodded .
it is too bad that kalam sent you through the valley .
when he last journeyed through there , it was still mostly free of the accursed mutans .
but things have changed since then .
do you believe that this tahn , the so called father of the mutans , will be trouble in the future ?
all i could do was shrug my shoulders .
i do not know .
he seems to control them , but i do not know his intentions .
ibam said , i see .
the mutans used to scrape an existence out in the ruins , but now they are actively harassing traders and even making raids into nearby lands .
even we have felt their presence since we have to traverse the wasteland to get the food necessary to keep us alive .
they are a danger , but we do not yet have the resources to combat them .
yet ?
suvan asked , finally speaking for the first time .
ibam smiled graciously at her .
it is by your action that this note managed to reach us .
i thank you .
but our plan from the start has been to slowly take over the countryside , eventually getting the populace on our side .
only when we have an army large enough can we battle the mujadeen and the mutans .
suvan replied coolly , ive traveled to many places with my father .
i dont recall seeing a single place controlled by you .
this started the other members of the council to murmur in protest .
the man called lydon nodded .
at the rate we are going , we will never have an army large enough to battle either . ''
with another smile that i found condescending , ibam said , we are few while the mujadeen are many .
but we are here , far from their lands across the wasteland .
we only have a few agents in place , but the march of time is on our side .
the mujadeen grow weaker with each passing year .
they will crumble .
when that happens , we will step in and make our move .
lydon jumped to his feet and said , we have discussed this many times , ibam .
why should we continue to wait year after year , when we can stop this senseless battle with the mujadeen now ?
we continue to live like rats , cowering in the mountains , waiting for a day that may never come .
if we make peace with the mujadeen , then we could trade with them , or even affect the political process .
i 'm sure the warlord is a reasonable man .
the mutans are the real danger here .
we should deal with them first ! ''
do n't be a fool , '' ibam responded angrily .
would you have us give away everything our ancestors worked for ?
they barely survived , struggling to survive here in the mountains .
it is only through their hard work and intelligence that we are here today .
i want a future for my children , not slavery under a tyrant that does n't even have the will of the people .
before he could go on , i interrupted this speech and asked , will you please tell us what the message from tai says ?
ibam let out a breath , staring hard at lydon .
after a moment of hesitation , he finally said , of course , mikel , that is your right as the messenger .
tai was sent to investigate certain recent reports that we had heard concerning the mujadeen .
it had been rumored that they are digging deep into the sand , looking for weapons of the ancients .
so far their searches have been fruitless .
that is until now .
the mujadeen have found an old missile silo .
according to the note here , this silo is intact with an unfired missile .
i felt confused by these words .
what does that mean ?
this time vinc spoke his words were harsh .
you traveled through the wasteland .
you saw the damage done by the ancients so long ago .
if we are to believe this note from tai , the mujadeen have found such a weapon .
there is no reason that they could not use it on us .
i stared at him in disbelief .
but surely such a weapon could not last all these years .
i have seen with my own eyes the damage done by time to the city and the remnants within .
theres nothing there but the rust and dust .
vinc said , that is true , but the ancients were able to protect their most important weapons from harm .
missiles such as this were buried deep into the ground , where they went to great lengths to keep them free from the elements .
it is entirely possible that this weapon can still be launched against us .
they would never dare , '' lydon added without being asked .
ibam made himself known again .
he said , what vinc said is true which is why we need to send someone to investigate this further and if need be , put a stop to it .
he stared at me as he said these last words .
surely you dont mean me ?
i asked in surprise .
i barely made it here alive and now you want to send me out into the wasteland again ?
ibam replied , you have seen how few there are of us .
we need someone who is familiar with the area around ewark .
im afraid kalam is getting too old for such activity .
anyway , if you want a place in our community , then you must help us .
this is blackmail , suvan angrily interjected .
you can call it what you want , but you can not afford to leave us now .
but dont worry , mikel , shall have vinc here to go along with you .
he will bring a dozen of his men .
they will make sure that you are protected .
lydon strode out of the room without saying a word .
chapter 26 that night i returned to the hospital to sleep .
as i was settling in , the doctor stopped in and checked my condition , confirming i was in good enough health to travel once again .
after he had left , i shut off the lights and went to bed .
instead of sleeping , i pondered the events of the day .
though i disagreed with lydon of the council on most of the issues he raised , he did have one point the rising danger of the mutans must be dealt with before the mujadeen .
and i was also in no mood to return to ewark , even if my future depended on it .
it was n't fair that i had had to suffer through so much only to put my life on the line once again .
but even those thoughts were nothing compared to the jealousy i felt .
was is possible that suvan could fall in love with that pig headed vinc ?
my tumultuous thoughts eventually gave away to an uneasy sleep .
i awoke .
my eyes were greeted by darkness , but i found that i could not move .
before i could shout , somebody held down my arms while someone else affixed a gag to my mouth .
i tried to struggle , using my legs to kick away the blanket , but it was too late since i was being held down by many hands .
i could do nothing to stop them .
my body was then physically dragged out of the hospital .
in the dimness of the moonlight sky , i could see that there were four of them , dressed in dark colored robes that hid their faces from view .
i was thrown face down into a waiting cart .
the cart was then pulled and pushed along by hand for some distance before i was forcibly removed .
there was a small house here , its windows dark and lifeless .
one of my abductors knocked at the door which was hurriedly opened .
i was brought inside where it was dark , and forced to sit on a chair where i was quickly tied down .
only then was my gag removed .
who are you ?
i spat out .
just one moment , a disembodied voice answered .
there was a snap and an overhead electrical light turned on .
i blinked several times .
it took me a moment to recognize lydon .
behind him stood four more men .
they were all dressed in black robes that reminded me of the man who had followed me into the city .
i asked impatiently , why have you brought me here ?
wherever this is . ''
he smiled benignly .
i will do whatever it takes to stop that fool plan of ibam 's .
but surely they will go on without me ?
i countered .
what do i know that is so important to them ?
you do n't know ibam like i do .
he will spend much time fruitlessly searching for you , thinking that you dont want to live up to your part of the bargain .
and that will give time for my friend here to return to ewark before you .
the man standing closest to lydon stepped forward .
he threw back his hood to reveal himself .
to my surprise it was hussen , the very man who had betrayed tai to the mujadeen .
what is he doing here ?
was all that i could say .
hussen laughed triumphantly .
you see , mikel , it was a trick all along .
the sub vizier decided to let you be rescued by that fool brewer kalam .
we knew about him all along .
we then let you come here , providing me with the exact whereabouts of this rebel city .
it was i who stopped that desert patrol from killing you .
it was i that saved you from that mutan arrow .
and it was you that led me here to luckily fall in with lydon and his men .
once i told him that the sub vizier will be willing to make a treaty , he was most interested in what i had to say .
rasid will be pleased when i return to ewark and tell him the good news .
the rebellion will finally be broken and the warlord will be sure to award me .
i looked at lydon to see how he reacted to this information .
he merely nodded as if he already knew all of this .
i said , lydon , this truce with the mujadeen , do you really think hussen here will help you on that account ?
he replied with a laugh .
i have been given certain guarantees .
no harm will come to the people here , provided we give ourselves up to them .
it 's a better solution than the endless war we 've been waging these countless years .
there will finally be peace and we can instead concentrate on the mutan threat .
it will be better , hussen agreed with a half hidden sneer .
i couldnt believe what i was hearing .
i would not trust hussen .
i would not trust rasid .
they do not care for anyone but themselves .
lydon merely said , the agreement has already been made .
you can not talk me out of it .
hussen said , now i must be going .
i 'm sure you 'll have a pleasant time here as a guest .
it 's too bad that we 'll never meet again .
he then shook hands with lydon and then left through the front door .
i slowly shook my head .
i said , by letting him go , you 've just doomed everyone here .
the mujadeen will come and enslave everyone .
maybe , lydon replied .
but afterward i will be made ruler of this town .
there will be no more council or ibam telling me what to do .
his eyes shone with an unnatural light that i found discomforting .
this man lusted for power , not the safety of the rebels .
any further ranting on his part was interrupted by a knock at the door .
lydon froze , his face frozen with shock .
he drew the sword at his side .
the other three did the same .
open up !
someone shouted from outside .
i recognized the voice it was vinc .
with a sudden crack , the door burst open .
in rushed vinc and several of his men .
my captors dropped their weapons , not wanting to fight the best troops in town .
did you see a man leave ?
i asked hopefully .
i saw no one leave , vinc replied with a shake of his head .
we have only just gotten here ourselves .
suvan went to check on you and found that you were missing .
lydon here was an obvious kidnapper , so after visiting his house and finding it empty , we came here to the home of his brother .
please do n't hurt me , lydon pleaded , his once strong voice reduced to a fear soaked tremor .
that 's up to the council to decide , vinc replied without pity .
chapter 27 we left the next day , using a steep path that went to the valley below .
it was here that the horses were kept in a fenced paddock .
once we had sorted through and packed the stores , we mounted up and left the safety of the rebel stronghold .
i rode in the back of the pack , next to suvan , while vinc and his soldiers rode ahead .
i hate to say that i was in a foul mood and barely spoke to suvan .
she took my silence in stride and instead seemed rather taken by this new excursion .
perhaps she was more adventurous , but by now i preferred the quiet life .
i was still smarting from the way i was treated at the council .
i had lost my way of living and taken great risks to deliver tai 's message .
for all my recent troubles with hussen and lydon , it was unfair to be given this new task .
i was also tired and still recovering from the wounds i had received .
why did they still require me to go on this dangerous journey ?
the wasteland looked the same as before but i was glad to be on horseback this time .
our plan was to try to catch up to hussen before he could reach ewark .
barring that , we would proceed to the silo and try to stop the missile from being used .
in the cover of night , hussen had managed to escape the town unscathed .
his tracks were discovered by vincs men , showing that the spy was riding straight east across the desert .
we would follow as quickly as we could , using the extra water rations that had been brought on two pack horses .
cat got your tongue ?
suvan asked me , breaking the spell of my thoughts .
i waved my hand at the sand around us .
i 'm just not ready for this yet , i admitted .
she smiled kindly .
no one is ever truly ready for life .
you just have to do the best you can .
and from where i 've been watching , you 've been doing an awfully good job so far .
her kind words brightened my mood .
thank you , was all that i could say .
i wished i could have said more , but i didnt know where her heart lay .
she squinted , looking to the distant horizon .
when i first met you , i doubted if you were good for anything .
but you proved me wrong time and time again .
you fought and suffered with me and saved my life on several occasions .
you were even willing to sacrifice yourself to save me .
that took bravery .
i do n't feel very brave .
i do n't think anyone ever does , '' she said , staring at me .
but i suppose it 's a matter of whether you run away or not .
you never ran from me .
i could n't help but blush .
i felt the quaver in my voice when i asked , tell me , do you have any interest in vinc ?
she laughed the sound was like silvery bells .
whatever gave you that idea ?
i do n't know .
perhaps it is the way he looks at you .
i can tell that he is interested in you .
of course i am grateful to him for saving our lives .
he also showed me around the town and i was glad for his company .
he 's a brilliant man in his own way .
i see , i commented dryly .
jealous ?
she playfully asked .
i think i have a right to feel that way , i retorted .
her mood suddenly changing , suvan glared at me with distaste .
perhaps you do , but do n't let it go to your head .
i 'm not a woman who can be kept like a horse or a favorite pet .
what i decide to do with my life is up to me .
i shook my head .
i ca n't say i 've ever met a woman like you .
then you have n't met many women .
we 're all different .
once you learn that , then perhaps we can talk again .
i felt my face flush with anger .
instead of replying , i took a drink from my canteen and stared straight ahead .
i fell back into silence , hardly speaking a word to suvan or anyone else until we stopped for the night .
vinc , who had never shown me much interest on this trip before , stopped by my bedroll .
the other men and suvan were sitting around a smoldering fire while i had decided to go off and sleep by myself .
on top of the nearest dune sat a guard who was to watch as we slept .
why do n't you join us ?
vinc asked , his features shadowed by darkness .
i shrugged .
tonight i prefer to be alone .
i see , he said even though i could tell by the tone of his voice that he did not .
i said , look , i appreciate your help in crossing the wasteland .
i 've never properly thanked you for saving my life either .
you 've done it twice now .
if it was n't for you , i would be dead , but i still do n't need you watching over me for every moment of my life .
it is no bother , he said dryly .
i only do it for the sake of suvan because she seems to care for you .
if it was n't for her , i would n't even make the effort .
i stared at him .
why do you care what she thinks ?
my life as a soldier is a lonely one .
i have patrolled the desert all of my life , fighting mutans , and keeping my land safe from the mujadeen .
i have never had the time for women or given them that much thought .
but when i saw suvan for the first time , my heart changed forever .
i worship her , but do not have the strength to tell her so .
why exactly are you telling me this ?
i asked , wondering how such a soldier could suffer from shyness .
he sighed plaintively .
you two crossed the wasteland together .
you have also spent much time together , fighting for survival .
i would like to know where you stand with her .
there is nothing between us , i said coldly , not wanting to answer his question .
that 's good , he said , his tone becoming brighter than i had ever heard before .
then i am free to pursue her ?
you will not mind ?
go ahead , i replied , hating myself for being so glib .
i was still angry with suvan .
i just wanted to forget about her , but i still felt a flash of hot jealousy from vinc 's words .
good !
vinc exclaimed .
he clapped me on the shoulder and then proudly stepped back to join the others , adding to the bright laughter around the campfire .
their cheerfulness only made my own mood worse .
i slipped inside the bedroll and covered my head .
it seemed like forever before the camp quieted down .
terrible thoughts of jealousy and anger filled my head .
it took quite some time before i finally fell asleep .
chapter 28 we traveled on .
two days later we came across a wide furrow on the desert floor that covered hussen 's tracks .
by now we had traveled well past the valley , so this new sight was very strange .
but a closer examination of the soft sand showed that it was made by hundreds of marching mutan feet .
they were on the move , heading straight east towards ewark .
vinc commanded that we turn off to the side , fearing we would catch up to this mighty host .
that also meant we would have to stop our pursuit of hussen .
it was a day later when we reached the edges of ewark .
by this time our food supply was low , and the water we had left wasnt very good either .
part of me was looking forward to being back in ewark , but hated the idea of seeing the burned remains of my hotel .
those thoughts were tossed aside when i saw the smoke off on the horizon .
my heart sank into my stomach .
what is it ?
i heard myself saying .
it has to be the mutans , vinc answered .
those tracks we saw the other day they were headed towards the town .
it has to be war .
i shook my head .
but the mutans have never attacked ewark before .
we were protected by the mujadeen !
vinc replied , but the mutans have never moved in such numbers .
it would take more than a few men on horseback to stop such a mighty army .
he then sent three of his men to gallop ahead .
suvan looked visibly shaken as our group rode on .
we all remained silent , fearful of what lay ahead .
as we approached the city , i could see the smoldering remnants of buildings .
nothing was left standing , not even the minarets of the mosque .
i found it ironic that the rest of ewark had met the fate of my hotel .
cluttering the streets were countless remains of bodies both human and mutan that had been picked over by circling crows .
not a sound could be heard but the flapping of wings against the heat of the air .
as i viewed the destruction , i felt sick with helplessness .
i somehow felt that i could have done something to stop this terrible bloodshed .
i 'm sorry , i heard suvan say .
she was now riding next to me , her eyes wide with fear .
these were the only words we had exchanged since our last conversation .
there is nothing to be sorry for , i said crossly .
i was still angry with her , but the embers of her words had cooled since then .
where was your hotel located ?
i pointed to the crumbled walls .
it appeared that the fire had destroyed the inside before the entire building had collapsed on itself .
there was nothing left but a pile of blackened bricks .
it was hard to think that everything i once owned was now reduced to ashes .
perhaps it was a fitting tomb for molli .
she would have wanted to stay at the hotel until the end of her days and beyond .
i have visited ewark with my father only once before , '' suvan was saying .
it seemed like a nice place .
it was okay , i replied .
but the people here did not deserve to die this way .
no one deserves such a fate .
vinc was nearby , listening to our conversation .
he said , the issue of the mutans is graver than we ever expected .
i never knew their numbers have grown so strong .
never before did they have the strength to pull off an attack of this magnitude .
i said , perhaps lydon was right your feud with the mujadeen must be put to a rest until the mutans have been destroyed .
they are surely a more pressing problem than some ancient vendetta .
vinc shook his head stubbornly .
our battle with the warlord and his mujadeen has been going on for generations .
they are the greater evil .
i am surprised by your response , considering the great injustice they have given you .
i pointed to the destruction surrounding us .
though they are tyrants , the mujadeen has never killed on a great scale like this .
before vinc could answer , one of the scouts had returned .
his face was a frozen mask of horror and when he talked , his voice was cracked with raw motion .
sir , a mile distant from here i came across the site of a recent battle .
it looks as if the mujadeen met the mutans there to fight .
the area is strewn with dead from both sides .
the mujadeen must have put up a good fight for there are many of the evil creatures left for the carrion birds .
but sadly there are also many dead men .
the signs show that the mujadeen were forced to retreat .
where they are now , i can not say .
afterward the mutans moved into ewark and as you can see , laid waste to the town . ''
thank you , vinc said to the man .
now go rejoin the other men .
we shall leave this accursed place soon .
after the soldier left , suvan said , what shall we do now ?
there is nothing left to do , vinc answered .
the missile silo has surely been overrun by the mutans .
any threat of the mujadeen has been overtaken by these fresh events .
i will have to return to the council to tell them of these new tidings .
once the other scouts return , we shall start back .
seized with an idea , i said , i would like to see if kalam is still alive .
do not waste your time , vinc replied .
he is either dead or has fled before the mutans have arrived .
i still want to check , i replied sharply .
i will go with you , suvan offered .
her face was now alight with the idea of helping me .
perhaps she would feel better if she had something to do other than feel the helplessness in face of the horror that surrounded us .
you can do whatever you want , vinc said testily .
at least until my other men return .
so be quick about it .
i did not respond , but instead wheeled my horse in the direction of kalam 's .
i then took off in a gallop , feeling angry by vinc 's heartless words .
he did n't seem to care for the people of this town or for kalam , who had saved me for certain death .
with suvan tagging along , i soon found myself at the ruins of kalam 's house .
the once tidy home was now a charred ruin the burned front door was open , the roof collapsed , and the mud walls were scorched black .
i dismounted .
rushing to the door , i pushed it further open .
inside there was nothing but blackened remains , the only thing left of the sturdy furniture and fine rugs that had once littered the floor .
however the floor itself , which was made out of mud , was still intact .
i wondered if the cellar below was still undamaged .
entering the home , i treaded carefully through the wreckage until i had reached the kitchen .
there a wall had fallen in , covering the trapdoor that went to the basement .
suvan !
i called out .
come and help me !
she was soon at my side .
we worked together and cleared away the heavy rubble around the trapdoor .
i carefully opened it , only to find the glint of an arrowhead pointing at my face .
it was kalam , an arrow drawn back on his bow .
when he saw me , the tension of the bow went slack .
he smiled in relief .
praise be allah !
he exclaimed .
i thought you were returning mutans !
i laughed , happy to see his familiar face once again .
tell me , old friend , how did you survive this terrible calamity ?
he came out of the cellar and viewed the destruction with a disappointed shake of his gray head .
first , let us go outside so i can get some fresh air .
the familiar smell of my basement is now too much for me .
we went outside .
kalam looked at the destruction with a disapproving frown .
he then stared at suvan and asked , who is your pretty friend here ?
this is suvan .
she saved my life out in the wasteland .
i am pleased to make your acquaintance , he said with a bow .
now let us sit and i shall tell you what has happened since your unwanted exit .
we sat on the hot sand and listened to his story .
a few days after you left , the town began to have problems with the mutans .
at first they were nothing but pinpricks little raids on the outer areas that were easily repulsed by the mujadeen .
it seems the enemy was merely testing our defenses but the sharif did not recognize this possibility .
i became worried for your own survival .
i had sent you into the wasteland , fully expecting you would have minimal problems with the mutans .
instead , i sent you into an armed camp !
i truly apologize for my error .
i am still alive , i commented blandly .
and praise allah for safeguarding you from harm .
but when the main mutan attack materialized , the mujadeen were in no position to stop them .
thanks to the patrols , they were warned that a mighty host was descending on ewark .
the people of the town were drafted to join the small mujadeen army .
so the men stayed while the women and children who could travel were sent north .
there was n't much time , and i can only pray that they escaped without being molested by the enemy .
the army of the mujadeen assembled on the plains to the south of here .
i was assigned to a thin line of bowmen on the left flank .
in the middle , the sub vizier rasid held his reserve of a hundred swordsmen under the command of the sharif .
on the right was the cavalry of some two hundred horses .
we all stood there with nothing to do but worry and wait .
the air was quiet until the sound of distant thunder rumbled from the west .
at first we thought it was a coming storm until the horizon turned black with the approaching mutan horde .
in all my years i have never seen such a horrific sight .
mens knees quavered with fear , and half the army would have run if the sub vizier had not started praying out loud for the guidance of allah .
his words steadied the men .
afterward we waited with what little courage we could muster .
the mutans marched towards us without fear and without haste .
their arrows rained down on us , turning the sky as black as night .
my line of bowmen fired into their flank but it was like throwing a rock at a swarm of bees .
everything looked lost until the cavalry charged straight down the enemy middle .
i do n't know why , but it seems that the mutans fear horses for they almost broke from the brave charge .
but there were too many of the foul creatures for it to work .
soon all the horses had been brought down the riders killed .
with a ferocious pace , the mutans then struck at the last line of swordsmen and soon overwhelmed them .
the rest of us ran for it .
i fled to the safety of my basement where all i could hear was screaming as the town was destroyed .
when it finally grew quiet , i found i was trapped below .
i waited there , drinking my beer , until you arrived .
i nodded .
i am glad that you survived .
do you know what happened to the sub vizier ?
is he still alive ?
that i do not know .
he was on horseback , so it is entirely possible that he escaped .
i asked eagerly , what of the missile silo ?
what do you know about that ?
after you left , i took it upon myself to continue to keep an eye on the diggings .
i have neither the stamina or agility of tai , but i still managed to work in close enough to see the facility for myself .
it is located between two hills , offering a natural defense against any attackers .
even with the increasing incursions of the mutans , as far as i know the facility was never evacuated .
so there is still a chance that the mujadeen are in possession of the weapon ?
he nodded .
i would say so .
before the battle with the mutans , i wondered why there were so few of us .
i thought that perhaps the sub vizier actually left the bulk of his men to guard the missile silo .
suvan angrily interjected and said , but why would they sacrifice ewark for something like that ?
kalam laughed , you can not imagine the strange decisions the powerful will make to protect their own interest .
we shall have to tell vinc about this , i said .
we can not return to the mountains yet not until the weapon has been destroyed .
chapter 29 after hearing this fresh news , vinc slowly shook his head in disbelief , looking between kalam and myself .
are you saying the mujadeen can still use that missile against us ?
he asked skeptically .
i do n't know what their intentions are , kalam answered honestly .
i only know that they may have sacrificed this town in order to save that accursed weapon .
you will have to send someone to investigate before you return .
perhaps the mutans have already overrun the silo and now possess the weapon .
the council will want to be sure .
vinc answered , if this place is heavily guarded as you say , then how can i examine it for myself ?
you are asking the impossible out of such a small force as this .
we would be cut to ribbons if we tried to enter .
kalam shrugged .
i can not say .
you are supposed to be a soldier , so you must figure something out .
i will do it , i volunteered .
one man , if he is careful , can slip inside anyplace , provided he is cautious enough .
i got close enough to see the silo , kalam said in agreement .
i 'm sure someone else with more agility could slip into the silo itself if they tried .
vinc stared hard at me , weighing the possibility of my success .
but what can you tell us about this weapon ?
you are no expert on the weapons of the ancients .
i replied , and you are ?
no one here could truly say how this missile works , could they ?
but anyone could assess the possibility of it still being operational .
such devices are complex any sign of decay would certainly stop the missile from being successfully fired .
but what 's in it for you , mikel ?
vinc asked .
i shrugged my shoulders .
my business has been destroyed and so has my town .
if this weapon is as dangerous as the council says , then it must be stopped at all costs .
i 'm the obvious choice since i have nothing left to lose .
after another moment of reflection , vinc answered .
you can go .
it is a foolish venture , but it is best that we know before returning .
i want to go too , suvan suddenly said .
she had been watching this conversation without saying a word .
i was surprised when she finally spoke up , but glad that she wanted to share the danger with me .
i forbid it !
vinc said after the initial surprise of her statement had worn off .
it wo n't be safe for a woman to venture there .
her eyes blazing with anger , suvan spat out , you ca n't tell me what to do .
i will go with mikel , and there is nothing that you can do about it .
it 's too dangerous , vinc shot back , his bronzed face turning red .
i said to her , i will gladly accept your assistance , suvan .
my words only aggravated vinc further , his words filled with vitriol .
go ahead and get yourself killed , but i wash my hands of the entire matter .
he then stalked away , his back stiff with anger .
i could n't help notice with some satisfaction that suvan looked at his retreating figure with nothing but pure loathing .
turning my attention to kalam , i said , what is the best way to get into the silo ?
he took a stick and drew a map in the sand .
when had finished , he said , you see the two hills here .
they are rocky and very difficult to climb .
the silo resides between them .
the mujadeen have built two tall walls between the hills , enclosing the silo within .
there is also a barracks made with mud which holds the soldiers and workers .
rasid has a tent nearby for his own use .
what does the silo look like ?
kalam laughed .
it 's nothing like a corn silo .
from my vantage point up on one of the hills , it looks like a low , circular hole made out of cement that looks as fresh as the day it was poured .
there is a large cover on top to protect the missile inside from the elements .
there is a second , man sized door in the base of the cement that allows access to within .
suvan asked , when you saw it last , how many soldiers were there ?
only a dozen , but that was before the mutan invasion .
there could be many more mujadeen there , trying to find a place of refuge from the last battle .
i asked , so what is the best way in ?
he shook his head .
the walls are guarded night and day , as is the gate on the western side .
it would be foolish to try that way .
i saw everything that i described to you from the vantage point of the northern hill .
perhaps you could find a way down from that side , but doing it at night will be quite dangerous .
i had the glimmer of an idea .
i turned my attention to suvan and said , we scaled the cliffs of the valley with the help of ropes .
do you think we could do the same going down ?
it would be better than trying to find a foothold at night .
if we had some rope , suvan earnestly replied .
i have some in my basement , kalam said , his eyes shining with excitement .
if you tie two of them together , it should be just long enough .
chapter 30 before making our way to the camp , we waited for setting of the sun .
it would be better to work in the dark and free of mutan interference .
finally , with the arrival of twilight , we left .
vinc traveled with us while the rest of his men rode away to a safer destination closer to the wasteland .
his mood had n't improved , but at least this time he rode in a sullen silence instead of speaking .
using a borrowed horse , kalam led our little group with considerable skill , picking the best route to travel without being seen .
above , the moon was nothing but a sliver , cloaking our movements in darkness .
but the closer we progressed to the silo , the lighter the horizon became .
it was still night , so i was reminded of my escape from the valley when the mutans had blocked our exit , keeping the area lit with massive fires .
my worst fear was true .
reaching the crest of a hill , i saw countless bonfires grouped around two high hills .
it was the mutans , laying siege to the remnants of the local mujadeen .
i motioned for the others to stop and dismount .
after pulling myself down from the back of my horse , i got down on my belly and crawled forward .
once i was at the very top of the hill , i stopped to watch .
i was soon joined by the others .
there must be thousands of those cursed creatures down there , i said as i watched the flickering flames .
aye , vinc said .
i never imagined they were such a force .
we must give up this foolish errand and return to the council .
suvan , who was keeping her distance from vinc , said , i 'm sure we could reach one of this hills if we really tried .
most of the mutan interest seems centered around those walls .
what do you think , mikel ?
you 'll be throwing your life away , vinc said .
his tone was almost pleading .
he really was deeply in love with suvan .
not that i could blame him .
we can only try , i said with little conviction .
i really was n't looking forward to taking the risk , but i did not want vinc proven right either .
but if this missile was as powerful as claimed , then it would be necessary to destroy it before it could be used .
such a hellish device had already caused enough damage .
the ancients could not control their own impulses for destruction , how could we hope to do so ?
let 's get going , suvan said impatiently .
without a further word , she slid down the hill and disappeared into the gloom below .
before joining her , i first pulled the lengths of rope off of my horse .
after a friendly handshake with kalam and a glare from vinc , i clambered down the slope of the hill .
at the bottom i found suvan waiting for me .
vinc is such a bore , she whispered in my ear .
i 'm sorry .
she then kissed me lightly on the cheek before walking away .
even though i was about to face death , i now felt happier than i had ever felt before .
i also felt like a fool for having falling in love with such a woman .
she was mischievous , clever and completely unpredictable , but i would do anything for her .
i ran to catch up to suvan and took her by the arm .
we were soon holding hands , making me feel younger than my years .
treading carefully , our heads held low , we came to the first line of bonfires without any of the enemy seeing us .
apparently the mutans had no watch or patrols to guard against attack .
since they had already destroyed the local mujadeen army , perhaps they felt secure in their numbers .
there was nothing left here for them to fear .
from our vantage point all i could see were sleeping mutans , their dark bodies huddled together around the blazing fires .
but still , this was no time to be incautious it would only take one mistake , and we would be killed .
pushing aside my fear , we went on .
but the further we went , the tighter suvan 's clasp became .
by the quake of her hand , i could tell she was feeling as frightened as i was .
the chill of the desert night seemed even colder than before , causing my neck to prickle with unease .
but on we went , every fire we passed yet another bridge to cross .
when we reached the halfway point , the number of mutans increased dramatically .
they were now practically littering the ground , sleeping with ever present muttering and twitching as if suffering from some terrible nightmare .
their evil smell was now thick in the air , making my nostrils recoil in disgust .
at this point suvan 's grip was like a vice , the nails biting hard into the palm of my hand .
we moved more cautiously than ever here , stepping quietly and gently over the sleeping mutans .
every step was torture , knowing it would only take one little mistake to awaken the wrath of these terrible creatures .
in such circumstances , time has a way of moving at a glacial crawl .
a normal minute is a fleeting thing , but now every second was like molasses .
it seemed like hours when we finally reached the last ring of bonfires .
it was here that the mutans were thickest .
there was hardly anywhere to step now that the ground was nearly solid black with the shadows thrown by the reposed bodies of these malicious beasts .
but here and there , suvan still found a place to step , guiding me through this dangerous maze of breathing mutans .
so intent was i on our progress that i nearly missed a movement to our left .
i suddenly stopped , causing suvan to almost lose the grip of my hand .
around a blazing fire , some fifty yards away , was a ring of sleeping mutans , their bodies forming a protective wall .
inside this wall of evil flesh there was a little white tent where a human was pacing back and forth as if deep in thought .
it was tahn .
as soon as suvan saw what i was looking at , she let out a choked off gasp .
even though i should n't be , i was still surprised myself .
it only made sense that tahn would oversee the march of his army of mutations , but to see him out of the city still came as a shock to my senses .
my intuition had been correct tahn was not only the creator of these foul beasts , but like a general , he was leading them against humanity .
this was a worse crime than anything the mujadeen had ever done .
but why was he here ?
i suddenly remembered the message i was carrying than had read it when i was knocked out by that foul drug .
he was here for the missile too !
suvans hand dropped from mine .
straddling a mutan , she had already notched an arrow into her bow .
dont !
i whispered urgently .
but i can get him from here , she shot back .
if you miss or dont kill him right away , then hell have a chance to give the alarm .
we wont have a chance , i warned her , hoping she could keep her natural impulsiveness under control .
our hushed words still werent quite enough .
the mutan under her feet rolled on his side , his back resting against suvan 's calf .
after some hesitation , she slowly slid the arrow back into her quiver .
letting out a sigh of relief , i glanced once more at tahn , wishing i could somehow extinguish his life .
without him , the mutans would have no direction or force .
they would have no choice but to break apart and return to their warrens in the city of the wasteland .
but to kill him here would also end my own life .
with a shake of my head , i returned my attention to making my way to the hill beyond .
chapter 31 what kalam called a hill was really more of a stony butte that would be impossible to climb if only given a superficial examination .
but according to kalam there were naturally formed impressions that could be used for clambering up the steep surface .
on the left side of the hill , we found such a way .
in a few moments we started to climb high above the ground just as the light of dawn began breaking over the horizon .
the fires ringing the mujadeen fort were beginning to die down .
i could see the mutans were beginning to wake .
we reached the top of the hill and could now look into the mujadeen camp below .
a line of a dozen soldiers armed with bow and swords were stationed at the walls , their attention solely turned to the mutans .
there was a paddock that contained a few horses , a low mud building that i took to be the barracks , and a single tent that had to belong to rasid .
but the most noticeable thing was the massive hole centered right in the middle of the camp .
there was the site of their excavation .
nestled inside was a large concrete structure with a sunken and round metallic covering that was at least thirty feet in diameter .
this was the site of the missile silo where the weapon of the ancients resided .
after coming so far , i felt strangely elated .
after all the trouble i had experienced , the end was finally in sight .
as suvan watched below , i glanced behind us .
the mutans were now all awake , quickly lining up into stacked formations facing the camp walls .
a shout went up near tahns tent and the rest of the mutans joined in a frightful chorus .
a moment later and the arrows were flying fast and thick into the encircled camp .
the mujadeen soldiers could do nothing but hide behind the walls as the hail of arrows fell inside .
several horses were hit , sending them running in circles with wild eyed panic .
this is our chance , i told suvan .
the guards inside will be too busy to pay attention to us .
she nodded , her jaw set in determination .
taking the rope from my shoulder , she tied one end to an outcropping and then let the other side drop to the ground below .
in a moment , she was climbing down , using her feet to brace herself against the side of the rock .
she moved quickly .
a few arrows flew by , but nothing was close enough to cause her concern .
after she had made it to the ground , i quickly followed suit .
the rope felt rough against my hands , burning my palms and fingers as i rappelled down .
after a few moments of frantic motion , my feet planted down on the desert floor .
i darted over to suvan who was hiding behind a dirt piling a leftover of the silo excavation .
from our hiding spot , i watched .
the scene inside the camp was pure chaos .
as the arrows flew , several mujadeen soldiers were running back and forth with no order or discipline .
from the front , i heard a new sound of metal striking metal .
i heard the cry to the gates !
to the gates !
repeated several times , but the response was lackluster .
suvan clutched my hand , her breathing hard and fast .
perhaps you should have stayed with vinc , i said .
she shot me a baleful stare .
i would rather die here with you .
i leaned over and kissed her on the mouth .
i then whispered , do n't worry , we 'll get out of here somehow .
we made it through that terrible city together , what 's another chance at certain death ?
with a laugh , she kissed me back .
then let 's go !
she said brightly .
we took off running towards the pit of the excavation .
we went past soldiers who were too busy to pay us any attention .
they were too engrossed with dodging the hail of arrows and dealing with the pounding on the front gate to bother with us .
with a jump we were inside the excavation , clambering towards the metal door embedded in the side of the concrete embankment .
suvan was the first to reach it , but when she turned the handle , the door did not budge .
i soon added my strength but it was to no avail .
it was locked tight .
is there another way in ?
suvan asked , casting a worried glance over her shoulder .
i shook my head .
i do n't think so , but i 'll go check .
do n't worry , i 'll be right back .
i then made a hasty reconnaissance around the concrete structure but did not find any other egress .
when i returned to suvan , she saw from my expression that there was no other way in .
if we can not get in , then what can we do ?
she asked , her voice rising in panic , rasid must have locked himself in there , i said , trying to control my own fear .
it 's the safest place to be right now .
i would n't mind being in there myself , suvan said with a shudder as another barrage of arrows went flying over , a few striking the ground near us .
my past feeling of elation had passed .
we were going to die , trapped here as the mutans broke through the wall .
our only escape was to try gain the height of the hill again , but we no longer had the cover of darkness .
the mutans would easily see our progress up the hill and we would be trapped on all sides .
the ground underneath my feet began to tremble .
there was a shriek of metal sliding against metal that rattled through the air .
the sound was coming from above our heads .
i quickly ran up the side of the pit to look down on the top of the concrete structure .
i immediately saw that the silo was opening , exposing a wide black hole within .
suvan !
i cried out as i ran back to her .
the top of the silo is opening !
let me push you up .
grabbing her by the waist , i hoisted her up to the top of the concrete .
when she had gained her footing , she turned around , took my hand and leaned back , allowing me to gain a foothold .
i was soon by her , staring down into the dark recesses below .
a dark gleam of metal pointed upwards at us .
it was the missile a cone of shiny metal that disappeared into the darkness .
i noticed a metal ladder mounted on the side of the wall .
pointing to it , i said to suvan , there is our way .
chapter 32 i took the lead in climbing the ladder .
as we clambered down , a great shout could be heard from outside .
the shout soon became a wail of panic .
from the sound , i surmised that the gate had been broken , allowing the mutan host inside .
this thought only made me move faster than before since it would only take a few minutes for the enemy to brush aside the remaining mujadeen soldiers .
after that , their attention would be turned to the silo , meaning we would be trapped inside .
the light coming from above became less with each step further down into the gloom .
the missile was now nearly touching our backs a metallic obelisk of the past that was minutely vibrating with some unknown power .
i wished i had the time to investigate this object at my leisure , but events were moving too quickly .
it was a relief when i finally touched bottom .
as i waited for suvan , i looked at the opening above .
the pale light of the blue sky was only a distant disk above us .
down here , all i could smell was dust , but the dim surroundings looked to be free of decay .
i really wondered if this relic could really be operational .
surely such a complicated piece of machinery could not last all these years without some kind of critical piece malfunctioning .
but what did i know of such technology ?
when suvan had joined me on the silo floor , we began searching the walls for some way out of this pit .
in the darkness , the collection of machinery and piping attached to the walls made this difficult .
i was about to give up hope when a row of red lights that ringed the base of the floor lit up .
somewhere beyond the walls , a high pitched bell started to ring .
the glow of this new unexpected light was enough for suvan to locate a small closed hatch .
with a twist of a lever , i had it open .
inside there was a bright , unnatural light .
without a hint of caution , suvan immediately crawled through .
before i went , i glanced one more time to the sky above .
with little surprise , i saw the face of tahn and several mutans looking down at me .
in another moment i slipped through the opening , hoping we would find some way to escape this trap alive .
i found myself on my knees in a well lit hallway .
about to stand , my motion was cut off by the unexpected words of rasid .
well , if it isnt my old friend , mikel .
he was standing with suvan , his arm around her neck and his pistol pointed at her head .
though you may think otherwise , im glad to see that you are still alive .
but down here , who knows how much longer that will be .
but i will allow you to stand now .
i do so , staring at him with hatred .
i also saw that suvans eyes were wide with fear , her lips slightly parted as if she was about to speak .
i said impatiently , the mutans are close behind .
it wont take long for them to figure out how to get in here .
rasid laughed .
by that time , my friend , it will be too late for them to stop me .
now move it !
he pushed suvan roughly forward , and i made the pretense of meekly following her .
there was nothing to gain but my own death if i rushed him or even went for my own pistol hidden under my shirt .
rasid followed us , his gun trained on my back .
we went down the hallway , the white tiled floor thick with dust that had been recently trampled by many boots .
at the end of this passage was another metal door which rasid motioned for suvan to open .
once she had , he waved his gun at us , motioning us to go through .
suvan went first , and i followed her in .
the sight that greeted me inside was beyond anything that i had ever seen before .
around a low and long desk sat three men in plastic chairs .
one of them was hussen , who only stopped his work to give me a malicious grin .
their concentration was on the lit panels in front of them .
it was a unfathomable mess of words , symbols and chaotic movement that i could make little sense of .
the rest of the room was painted in a flat gray except for the far wall which was dominated by a larger lit panel that showed a map with symbols on it .
when rasid saw my confusion , he said , thats something called a display .
or so i have been told .
the computer , or electronic machine , is used for targeting the missile .
ive been told its quite accurate , but with the power of this particular missile , it doesnt have to be a direct hit .
suvans fear gave away to curiosity .
but the electricity , she asked , where does it come from ?
rasid replied , ive been told that theres a small power plant buried underneath us .
the technicians told me there is enough energy there to run this place for another hundred years .
simply amazing , isnt it ?
the ancients were truly masters of their craft .
its too bad they never got a chance to see this particular missile used .
im sure they would have been pleased to see it still work after all these years .
i replied suspiciously , you said something about targeting .
his dark eyes shined with excitement .
very astute of you , mikel .
i always thought you were too smart for the likes of ewark .
you see i was given an order from the warlord himself to finally put an end to the rebels .
thanks to you and hussen , ive tracked down their location .
the power of their council is that of a mayfly completely ineffectual .
but still , they continue to defy the warlord and his glorious power .
that is reason enough for what i am about to do .
with the use of this ancient weapon , i will finally put the matter to rest .
im going to destroy them with just the push of a button .
i looked at rasid like he was a madman .
and perhaps he was .
but what of the mutans ?
they are surely more of a threat than the rebels .
look at what they just did to ewark , destroying your army in the process .
with his free hand , he gave me a dismissive wave .
ewark doesnt matter in the grand scheme of things .
once the rebels are killed off , the mutans will be easy enough to destroy .
the warlord and his army will see to that .
youre a fool !
i shouted .
there are thousands of mutans in the city .
ive seen what they can do , just as you did when they beat you in battle .
they will overrun and destroy every last city until there is nothing left of humanity .
rasid just stared blankly at me , ignoring my pleas .
hussen then stood up from the desk .
he turned and bowed to the sub vizier .
he said , everything is ready , master .
are you sure this will work ?
rasid asked .
as we were told by the technicians , the instructions were quite clear , sir .
the coordinates have been entered , and it only takes your word to fire the missile .
the proper codes have been entered and the fire button is ready for you to push .
never mind me .
just fire it now , rasid said with a voice that was as cold as ice .
as you command , hussen answered .
while they were talking , i had slipped the gun out of my from under my shirt .
since rasid was busy addressing the man , he did not see the movement until it was too late .
i stretched out my arm and fired the gun , striking rasid point blank in the chest .
his eyes went wide with shock as the blood began seeping from the wound .
the hand that held the gun went slack , and he slid to the floor , his eyelids fluttering .
he let out a single groan before he was silent and still .
suvan merely stared at me , perhaps forgetting that i still carried a pistol .
hussen looked at me wide eyed , his expression one of dismay .
i said angrily , i want you to get out of here .
take the other two and just leave ! ''
but the mutans !
were trapped down here , he pleaded .
then i guess youll have to take that chance just like we will when we have to leave .
very well , '' he gulped .
with the wave of my pistol , the other two men left the desk and they quickly exited together through the door .
take rasids gun , i ordered suvan .
she quickly complied , pulling the pistol from his clasp .
she looked at with interest and then smiled .
you are a murderous brute when you want to be .
but why did you let hussen go ? ''
what choice did i have ?
we have to disarm that weapon before someone else figures out how to use it .
i would rather have hussen out of here instead of him taking a chance and firing the missile .
anyway , i need to save my bullets for the mutans when we try to make our escape .
we can destroy the computer , suvan suggested .
good , let 's get started .
before we had a chance , there was a sudden scream .
i ducked my head out the door and saw hussen come running back in our direction .
he was being chased by a pack of mutans .
the two other men had been too slow and were already lying on the floor , dead .
they were covered with blood .
hussen was quickly cut down by a few slashes of the blade .
behind the foul creatures stood tahn .
i shut the door , wishing i could lock it .
what is it ?
suvan whispered , looking up from the screens in front of her .
it 's tahn .
he 's here .
what are we going to do ?
i felt the heft of my pistol in my hand .
chances are we 're going to die .
she reached over and grabbed my hand .
then let 's die together .
i took a step towards her and kissed her on the mouth .
the overhead light suddenly went out , only to be replaced by a flashing red strobe .
i turned and saw rasid hunkered over the desk with his hands over the control panels .
he turned , gave me one last leer , and then slumped to the ground .
running over , i grabbed the front of his tunic and began to shake him .
what did you do ?
what did you do ?
i shouted .
but it was too late for answers since rasid was finally dead .
the ground beneath my feet began to tremble .
the red light above began to swirl at a faster rate , and the ringing bell started to ring louder than before .
meanwhile , suvan rushed over to the desk and began to randomly push buttons .
it was only a moment when the door burst open .
the mutans rushed into the room , their swords held high in the air .
chapter 33 i fired .
my first bullet struck the lead mutan , sending him sprawling backwards .
the next bullet tore into the rushing mass as they tripped over their comrade .
i was soon joined by suvan , who began clumsily firing rasids pistol .
our barrage of bullets slowed the foul creatures down , but did nothing to stop their aggressive nature .
they kept on coming , glad at the chance to strike down a human .
i kept firing until the pistol hammer fell on an empty cylinder .
i was out of ammunition .
throwing aside my now worthless pistol , i then drew my sword and waited impatiently for suvan to finish shooting .
knowing i was going to die soon , i could feel my heart hammering inside my chest .
it was only a second later when suvan threw down the gun to draw out her bow .
i took this chance and started slashing at the mutans like a man possessed .
the fire from our guns had already made a pile of fresh corpses , making the floor slippery with black blood .
as i parried , slashed and jabbed with my blade , suvan fired arrow after arrow into the horde of beasts .
though our actions were valiant , we could do little to stop the tide .
but then the tremors of ground gave away to a mighty roar that practically shook me off my feet .
i fought to stand up as did the mutans .
and then to my surprise , they turned and started to run away in a panic .
the unfamiliar sound and motion of the firing missile had somehow scared them enough to flee .
within a few moments , we were suddenly free of their attack .
through the open door , i could see tahn trying to stop the remaining mutans from retreating .
his entreaties were ignored , and he was soon the only living creature left in the hallway .
the overpowering sound of the missile launch had now ceased , leaving nothing but silence .
looking over the littered remains of his slaves , tahns eyes locked onto mine .
i scowled at him as i stepped out with my sword at the ready .
you !
he exclaimed , his eyes lit with madness where is my missile ?
i came all the way here to get my missile !
what do you mean , old man ?
back in the city , i read the note that you were carrying .
it told of a great weapon hidden away here .
its mine !
i came here with my sons to take what is mine .
its gone , you fool !
i shouted .
your creatures have left you , i said as i hefted the sword in my hand .
i suggest you do the same before its too late .
ill never understand what madness overtook tahn , but his expression turned to one of pure rage his lips curled with hate , and the eyes blazed with passion .
he rushed at me , fumbling for some object hanging from his waist .
it was a dagger that he brought high over his head .
with a maddening scream , he tried to plunge it into my chest .
tahn was too slow .
i dodged the blow , grabbed him by the neck and threw him hard against the wall .
his head hit with a horrific crack , and tahn fell to the ground like a rag doll .
the way his neck was bent , i knew he was dead .
is it over ?
suvan whispered from behind me .
yes .
lets get out of here , i replied sourly .
we went down the hallway and opened the door at the end .
from there we climbed the metal stairs until we reached a door that had already been forced open .
we climbed out of the pit in silence , ignoring the dead bodies strewn within .
the camp was devoid of life , the only things left were broken arrows and corpses .
i looked up at the sky , my eyes following the white cloudy trail of the missile .
on the horizon there was a red and yellow glow that was brighter than the sun .
connect with paul westwood online blog http ofghostsandgunpowder.blogspot.com facebook http www.facebook.com paulwestwoodbooks the other works of paul westwood the color of sin devon pierce lives a life of his own choosing , surviving by his wits and violent actions .
for those in desperate need , he is the judge and executioner of last resort above the law and incorruptible .
cleora kinney has been wronged by an evil man and the afghanistan treasure of her deceased father has been stolen .
only devon pierce can make things right .
but first he must follow the clues found hidden deep in the shadowy underworld of the city of sin .
grave injustice it had been in the warren family for years the ancestral home deep in the south .
after the death of james 's reclusive uncle , the house is now his to sell .
but james is haunted by a childhood memory of a ghostly horror of a deceased young girl .
with the help of his wife beth , who is a law student , the young couple must solve a murder from the civil war and lay to rest the spirit that still haunts the grounds .
but the danger is not only in the past , but will come crashing into the present .
their lives and fortunes will be forever changed .
nano zombie not all zombies are undead .
brent is a man who lives in the near future , a crumbling civilization where man feeds upon man .
escaping from the chaos of the city , he is suddenly thrust into an unspeakable nightmare of sickness and war .
in a world of apocalyptic horror , he battles for those he loves , an orphan girl and a woman with a mysterious past .
in the desolated countryside , brent fights to stay alive and find a cure to the most terrible disease that humanity has ever seen .
horror america move over sherlock holmes !
when the supernatural game 's afoot , helpless people call on the good dr. townsend to save them .
ghosts , the undead , werewolves , and more horrors that man was not meant to see are loose in 1870s america , so it 's up to captain parker , a gunslinger for hire , and dr. townsend to stop the horror .
yet when townsend 's beautiful daughter falls under the spell of a mysterious suitor , their fortitude will be tested in a battle like no other .
written in a series of connected short stories narrated by parker , this novel will keep you turning pages late into the night .
lonely are the dead 1977 .
a ruthless serial killer is stalking bay city .
his purpose is unknown , but the dismembered victims are always young and beautiful .
in order to find the perpetrator , police detective markus has to set aside his personal troubles , and pull the evidence together before panic sweeps the city .
his only ally is karen dekker , a reporter with a tortured past and the chance to break the biggest story of her career .
the cursed sun two centuries after the final war , civilization struggles to rise from the ashes of the new dark ages .
an innocent man turned outlaw is forced on a journey across a desolated landscape , risking his life to deliver a warning to the growing rebellion .
the message he carries will change the balance of power , and with it , the hopes of humanity .
murder at zero hour william grant , an american , joins the british army during the great war .
he is posted to france , where he witnesses the horrors of war on the front line .
during a dangerous night patrol , a captain is murdered , leading to a series of unanswered questions .
with only his wits , grant must solve the mystery while keeping his own skin intact .
will he be a victim of war or just another victim ?
at harpers ferry the book that started it all .
jack blackwood is a lonely drunk who starts a detective agency in the heart of washington dc .
as fort sumter is attacked , he and his partner ezra are embroiled in a case that could change the very course of the war the son of a retired congressman has gone missing , along with military papers outlining the union 's anaconda plan .
at the heart of the matter is a beautiful prostitute , a trail of dead men , and a spy who will stop at nothing to deliver the plans to the confederacy .
at bull run the second book in the blackwood series .
a wealthy man hires jack blackwood to find the murderer of his only son , who had recently joined a newly formed union cavalry regiment .
in a city crowded with temptation , the investigation uncovers a killer who is targeting prostitutes and soldiers alike , causing panic in the ranks .
only jack 's wits and the power of the colt can put a stop to the killings .
at shiloh the third book in the blackwood series .
as grant 's army marches through tennessee , it is beset by guerilla fighters led by the traitorous major gardner .
an invaluable shipment of gold is stolen from the union and must be retrieved at all costs .
posing as a guntrader , jack must not only complete this impossible mission , but survive the perils of battle and the amorous advances of a widow trapped in an unfriendly town .
the blackwood trilogy jack blackwood is a widower and a drunk .
ezra miller is an ex slave in a white man 's world .
together , they run a detective agency in washington dc .
as the civil war rages , they are involved in a series of cases that will change the very course of the war .
this anthology collects all three adventures at harpers ferry , at bull run , and at shiloh at one low price .
free bonus chapter of the color of sin it was supposed to have been a nice and quiet evening at home .
my current home being the an old warehouse that i had personally converted into apartments .
i , of course , had kept the entire top floor and left the space underneath empty so i wouldnt be bothered by the worst impulses of humanity noise .
the other units brought in a tidy income though i purposefully kept the rents low enough to keep out the neuvo rich .
instead , the building was populated with artists , workers , and a mish mash of hustlers and conmen .
they were the type of people who kept to themselves and werent always asking questions about the landlord above .
instead they were quite happy to get entrance to such a secure building at an affordable price .
and considering the area we lived in , d street avenue in las vegas , a little safety went a long way .
i was sitting on the sofa with my legs up on the footrest and half a gimlet at my elbow .
on my lap was a tablet .
i was scrolling through a map app , trying to find the best way to drive out of this town .
july was coming , which meant the hottest part of the year .
a vacation was due , and i was entertaining the thought of taking my car on an extended tour of oregon .
i really didnt want to leave i liked this town but i was overcome with a feeling of restlessness .
i had been bored as of late , which often happens in my line of work .
in the corner of my eye , i saw the graceful movement of melodie glass , who was working on some new dance moves .
she had come over for the privacy and the fact that i had a massive space to practice in .
the massive je labs speakers and mark levinson electronics were an additional bonus .
the high reved pop music sounded dismal to my ears , but she seemed to enjoy the fidelity as she stretched and contorted her dancers body into moves that only can be done by top level gymnasts or professional strippers .
she was the latter sort .
melodie was pale with long black hair , smooth skin , and a face that revealed an asian ancestor .
she was skinny but well endowed on top work done by a good plastic surgeon and had the well muscled legs of someone who moved all day for a living .
she was wearing a faded black leotard with red legwarmers .
her hair was pulled back and kept in place with a hair clip .
though taller than your average woman , she was still a few inches shorter than myself .
she was working her body hard .
if i had installed a stripper pole , im sure she would have been sweating even harder .
but instead , she was practicing her floor routine , the gyrations meant to keep the dollar bills coming .
with the stiff competition in vegas , the men and women who made their living at exotic dancing , melodie made sure to stay in shape and keep her dances fresh .
even with the air conditioning running at full blast , there was a slight odor of perspiration .
from the track lighting above i could see a gleam of sweat on her exposed skin .
i put the tablet down and took a sip of my drink .
lime juice mixed with gin had a wonderful way of sharpening the senses .
as i drank , i saw melodie stop .
she went over to the cd player and turned off the power , sending a momentary thump through the speakers .
i frowned , knowing that something serious was on her mind .
devon ?
yes ?
i replied as i set my drink back down .
she took a step closer .
is it true what people say about you ?
what do people say ?
that you help people in need .
i dont think ive ever been called charitable .
you know what i mean .
i gave her a half of a smile .
yes , its true that i help those who cant help themselves .
of course there has to be some profit in it .
i vaguely pointed at the luxury furnishings and the expensive rug at our feet .
this sort of stuff doesnt come cheap .
i am , after not , not running a charity here .
but there are some rules to the game .
the first , of course , is that i wont go killing for money .
the second is that i wont harm the innocent , though the latter is questionable since i have never met anyone who is truly innocent .
youre the most cynical man ive ever met , she purred .
i prefer the word experienced .
but i did not earn my money by doing anything that is unethical within the confines of what i consider ethical , that is .
she leered at me .
that leaves a wide range of possibilities , honey .
she instantly turned serious again .
maybe you really could help a friend of mine .
her name is cleora kinney .
shes a co worker of mine at the pussycat lounge .
shes only been there a few days and anyone can tell that she isnt cut out for the life .
but i do know that she needs help and i cant think of anyone but you .
i scratched my chin in thought .
after a few moments of this , i said , i wasnt exactly planning to be in town for very much longer .
anyway , im not hurting for money right now .
this is something interesting .
what is it ?
i asked , taking the bait .
last night , after our shift was done , we got to drinking and talking .
after a few beers she opened up and told me everything .
were talking a lot of money here .
a few thousand dollars ?
a hundred thousand ?
maybe it would be better if you would talk to her yourself .
i would hate to tell you the wrong thing and have you turn down the job .
she can explain it better than i can .
now youve got me interested .
she closed the space between us with a few sultry steps all hips and doe like eyes .
it was a good performance that got my heart racing , even though i knew the act was as false as a street bought rolex .
she said , thats the point , honey .
shell be here in a few minutes .
what ?
she reached over and ran a hand through my hair .
dont worry , youll like her .
everyone does .
she then sauntered off , showing her backside to good effect .
she went back to the stereo , turned the cd back on , and began to dance to the rhythm of the music .
i returned my attention to the gimlet .
i took a drink and tasted nothing .
i was too busy being angry with melodie to notice the flavor .
i put the glass down and tried to return my attention to the map on the tablet .
but the route i had chosen instead blurred and disappeared from my vision .
instead i busily thought of the possibilities a changed will that left the poor girl out of a sizable estate , a drug dealing boyfriend , or some stolen merchandise that she knew about .
dancers like that were always making friends with rich men who wanted to share their wealth .
what could be different with this woman ?
the door buzzer went off .
it was just barely audible over the thump of the music .
i got up off the sofa , threw melodie a nasty smile , and went to unlock the steel reinforced door .
after that , it was a walk to the elevator that i had specially modified so that it took a code to access my two floors .
as an extra precaution , the door leading to the staircase was locked with thick doors at the floor levels .
with the wired alarm system i had installed myself , no one could get inside without me knowing .
in case i was out of the building , i had a computer setup to send an email to my cellphone .
this may all sound rather paranoid , but when you do my type of work , a little caution goes a long way .
the door to the elevator opened .
i got inside , selected the ground floor , and waited impatiently as i was taken slowly down .
in the entryway , i saw a young blonde waiting behind the door .
the glass of this entryway was reinforced with chicken wire .
the wood was thick and old , an original part of the warehouse .
with a flourish , i opened the door and let her in .
im cleora , she said as she offered her hand .
devon pierce , i replied .
we shook .
come right this way .
in silence , we rode up in the elevator .
there i studied her .
in profile she looked good .
with small features , she looked more like a teenager than a woman who works the stage for a living .
her nose was straight and the color of her eyebrows matched the color of her blonde hair .
she had honest to goodness freckles , blue eyes , and a page boy haircut .
she was wearing a shapeless top and a black skirt that went down to the knees .
long white socks and tennis shoes added to the school girl effect .
the calves had the muscled tone of a dancer .
i could see why men would like her , but there was also a coldness there that would be hard to penetrate .
come right this way , i said as i opened the door to my apartment .
she went in and let out a gasp .
its a common enough reaction when new visitors see the wood floors , plush rugs , the paintings on the brick wall , the gleaming stereo , and the herman miller furniture .
the entire effect was that of stylish modernity and was a far cry from the ghetto streets a few stories below us .
this was my hideaway from the world and only trusted souls were allowed into the inner sanctum .
part of my annoyance with melodie was giving access to her friend iwithout my permission .
but if you cant trust your friends , than who can you trust ?
are you a drug dealer ?
cleora asked .
seeing the arrival of her friend , melodie stopped the cd player .
i noticed that this time she had done it correctly by using the buttons .
she said , no , and hes not part of the mob either .
hes just a rich bastard .
i could see that this answer did nothing to clear up the confusion .
i added , im not that rich .
but i do like to live comfortably .
as for my income , i consider myself as a sort of an investor .
this building , for example , used to be a warehouse .
i provided apartments for the people of this neighborhood and in the process built a place for myself that i found comfortable .
i also have other interests that meet my financial needs .
but why this neighborhood ?
you could be living big in summerlin .
that was a more swank part of town .
melodie answered , devon here isnt like other people .
he likes to associate with conmen , junkies , and strippers .
he thinks normal people are boring .
i nodded .
and their lives are rather boring without the sort of problems i find interesting .
perhaps i could help you .
melodie said , cleora , why dont you tell devon here all about your problem .
ill go shower and change .
with those words , she went down the hallway and went into the bathroom .
the sound of running water was immediately heard .
it was obvious that cleora was feeling uncertain , so i went over to the bar and fixed her a drink .
while i was pouring out the vodka , she sat down at the stool and waited until i was done .
she gratefully accepted the screwdriver , taking a tentative sip .
she said , i dont feel right being here .
i mean what can anyone do for me ?
i dont know anything about your situation so i cant possibly answer your question .
but we could start at the beginning .
cleora gave me a shy look , an honest to goodness inside view at the real woman underneath the veneer of the armor she must have developed in her line of work .
i could see why melodie said that this girl was not cut out for the job as an exotic dancer .
she finally said , okay , but this is going to sound a little crazy .
try me .
my real name is amy .
cleora is my professional name everyone uses it except my sister .
you see i was an army brat .
that meant i never had a real home .
instead my family traveled from base to base .
five years ago , when i was eighteen , i got pregnant .
this happened over in henderson .
this was a suburb that southwest of las vegas .
we were living in a little ranch home in a neighborhood luckily my old man was off on his first tour in afghanistan when i found out i was going to have a child or else there would have been hell to pay .
the father of the baby was a boy named timothy king who was an awkward kid i went to school with .
there was nothing ever serious about us , instead we were just friends who liked to fool around .
i dont know where he is now .
i really dont care .
so i had a little girl .
shes named madison .
shes the only reason i came to you .
i want her to go to college .
i want her to have the things that i never had .
i nodded and didnt say anything .
now that she was on a roll there was no stopping her now .
my father bill kinney was a captain in the special forces , doing some type of work for the government .
it was all hush hush , you know , top secret .
we were never rich , thats for sure .
but somehow when he was sent over to afghanistan , he must have discovered some way to make money .
i dont know what it was or how he got it back to the states , but thats not important .
i know it had to be illegal , whatever he did .
i mean they dont hand out free cash to soldiers , do they ?
but he was a hard man who thought he was the toughest thing on the planet .
the older he got , the more he had to prove himself .
a week after he returned from his final combat tour , he went out to the bar .
he got into a fight with a younger man some tough college football player .
it must have been a lucky punch , because apparently my father just folded up like a house of cards when he got hit in the side of the head .
he never regained consciousness .
he died two days later .
im sorry to hear that .
she gave a shrug .
that was two years ago .
i wasnt that sad at the time .
and im not exactly grieving now .
how did you find out about the money ?
when bill came back , he couldnt keep it a secret .
he told my mother and my sister kim and i that we were going to be rich soon .
he also told us that we couldnt tell a soul .
he made us promise .
i pursed my lips together .
did your father tell you the source of this new found wealth ?
she shook her head and took another sip of her drink .
i thought he was making it up .
not that he was the sort of person to lie , but he came back from the war a changed man .
he was a drunk..
he was abusive toward my mother .
he threatened my little girl .
i thought he was telling us lies about the money to keep us happy .
i was skeptical now .
what made you change your mind ?
i mean one day you dont believe him and the next youre suddenly sure that there is a fortune just waiting for you .
im getting there .
eight months ago a man named keith miller came to the door .
he ended up staying with us .
he claimed to have known my father over in afghanistan that they had served together in the green berets .
he was just out of the army and looking for a job .
my mother let him stay with us until he could get back on his feet .
i wish she had thrown the bum out on his ass .
the sudden venom caught me by surprise .
but before i could say anything , she continued on , her jaw tight and unyielding .
keith said he knew my father well .
he said they had spent two tours together .
he had no family and nowhere to go .
at first he seemed so kind .
he was good with his hands and really helped around the house .
after a few weeks , he even got a job as a bouncer at the club i worked at in henderson .
he isnt a big guy but hes got muscle .
ive seen him fight and toss out some real tough guys .
i admit that it felt good to have someone strong around .
he seemed to like me and my daughter quite a lot .
and with my mother sick with lung cancer , my sister and i really needed him .
in the end i fell in love with keith .
we might as well have been married , thats how close he was to me .
he seemed to be a good man .
and when mother died , kim quit job as receptionist so she could take care of her two sons from a former marriage and my daughter .
it was up to keith and i to bring in the money .
things were tight and i was glad for all the help i could get from him .
but there was some strange quirk about keith that became quite bothersome .
you see he loved to talk about my father .
i thought he was just waxing nostalgic about an old comrade , wanting to know bills habits where he liked to visit , or where my dad hunted , or what kind of work he had done around the house .
keith also took a real keen interest in gardening and found some excuse to dig up most of the yard .
i didnt pay any attention to this until the day that he left .
it sounds like he was looking for something , i commented dryly .
she took the final sip from her glass .
the ice cubes were all melted .
i also noticed that the water in the bathroom was off and melodie hadnt come out yet .
whatever it was , he found it , she said .
one day i awoke and keith was gone .
he only took his personal stuff and never showed up at work .
this two months ago .
to be honest , i wasnt all that surprised .
i knew that he wasnt that good for me .
but there was one strange thing that really got me shook up .
in the back of that house was a patio that wasnt much larger than one of your rugs .
it was made with old flagstones .
one of them had been removed .
underneath was a hole that contained a scrap of canvas that was olive green .
i can tell you that it didnt take too many leaps of the imagination to put the pieces together .
something , perhaps that money my father talked so much about , had been hidden there .
i was angry as hell .
i thought i would never see keith again .
i had to quit my job at henderson and come to vegas to get a better paying job .
but just last week , after i had gotten out my shift at my new job at the pussycat lounge , i was driving home .
i saw him outside of the sands casino , pulling some breezy redhead out of a new lexus with temporary tags .
she looked high maintenance and much too rich for a man like him .
before i could find a parking spot , the two of them disappeared inside .
i searched around the casino but didnt see them .
i ended up camping in the lobby .
it was an hour later when he came out with that woman .
like a fool , i ran after him , demanding all sorts of explanations .
he practically ran away , dragging that bitch with him .
they hopped into that car and took off .
i ran to my car and started following them .
two blocks later , he dropped her off at the entrance of a ritzy condo called eastgate .
after that , i lost him in the traffic .
i think he knew that i was following him .
and you think he found the money that your father hid ?
perhaps he just shacked up with a new woman .
cleora actually blushed .
i can tell you that keith isnt the type who can a snooty woman fall for him .
hes different uneducated and good with his hands .
hes no gigolo .
i let out a small sigh of exasperation .
its a general observation of mine that woman of all classes arent particular when it comes to a mans background .
if they like what they see , then theyll try and get him .
you dont know keith .
hes a brute .
and im not just saying that out of hatred .
he can be tender and even sweet , but theres an anger inside of him that is downright scary .
i have the scars to prove it .
no woman in her right mind would be with him long .
as i said , i was glad when he was gone .
i also got scared that he would come after me , once there werent any witnesses around .
he can be cruel if he think hes been wronged .
im glad that i left henderson .
you no longer live with your sister ?
no , i share an apartment with one of the girls from the pussycat .
its easier that way .
i send my extra money back to my sister , who is busy taking care of my daughter , and visit them on the weekends .
would you like another drink ?
she shook her head .
no thanks .
so will you take on my case ?
im not a private detective .
let me give it some thought and ill get back to you .
cleora dragged a cellphone out from the heavy purse that was still slung over her shoulder .
would you like my number ?
that wont be necessary at this time .
ill contact you through melodie .
after that , i walked her down to the front entrance .
i waited until she got into her car a beat up kia and drove away .
deep in thought , i went back to the apartment .
once the door shut , i could hear the melodie humming some unknown song .
the sound was coming from the bedroom .
i went there , walking gently on the sides of my feet .
hey , i said through the half open door .
why dont you come in ?
her voice was low and filled with desire .
i took a few steps inside .
with the gauze curtains across the windows , the room was dim .
i could just see the stickley bed and matching side tables with their tiffany lamps .
lying on top of the bed was melodie .
she wasnt wearing anything at all except for a smirk .
the look suited her quite well .
she was propped up on a pair of pillows , her long black and wet hair leaving a dark stain on the cotton .
there was no extra fat on this specimen , only toned but shapely muscles that only accentuated her natural curves .
she wasnt shy about me looking either , but we had our fling in the past so there was nothing new that melodie could share with me .
so what do you think of my new friend ?
she asked .
she said the words casually as if we were talking on a street corner .
i sat down on the edge of the bed .
i like her .
it appears that cleora has led a tough life .
but she still managed to find her way through .
that proves shes got her head on right .
i like her too .
so will you help her out ?
ive got to think about it .
there is a lot i need to know before i can even began to find out what was stolen from her .
so do think really think that this keith character did find something that her father buried in the backyard ?
it seems plausible .
bill kinney served in afghanistan .
to me that means poppies , opium , and heroin .
with all the supplies being ferried back and forth , it wouldnt be that hard to smuggle some drugs into the country .
you know as well as i do that it is a quick and dirty way to make some money .
before i could react , melodie grabbed my arm .
i did not resist as he pulled me closer , guiding my hand to one of her perfectly formed breasts .
that plastic surgeon really was a genius .
but before my fingers touched the ruby hardness of her nipple , pulled back , easily breaking her grip .
damn it , devon , she said sourly .
i rubbed my chin and stared into her dark eyes .
you know as well as i do , melodie , that the game is over between you and i .
anyway , i thought you had a new boyfriend .
i do , she said nastily as she swung her legs over the edge of the bed and stood up .
hold on , i didnt mean to hurt your feelings .
its too damn late , melodie spat out .
she ran out of the bedroom and into the bathroom where she slammed the door with enough force to make the internal walls shake .
she was a strong girl .
i went back to the living room .
there i began to paw through some records that were tucked inside a bookcase .
i found a handel record .
i went over to the goldmund turntable , turned it on and , after turning a few knobs , had some glorious baroque music pouring elegantly out of the speakers .
i stood in front of the stereo and listened intently , trying not to think of what could have happened in that bedroom .
dont get me wrong , i liked melodie quite a bit and felt like a fool for turning her down , but i also did not want to rekindle that old flame .
before we had broken up , things had gotten complicated .
i was happy to be friends with her and didnt want anything more than that or so i told myself .
when she finally came out of the bathroom , melodie was dressed in her street clothes a miniskirt , a red sleeveless top , and a pair of high heels .
her damp hair was twisted into two long braids .
a plastic grocery bag containing her workout clothes were in hand .
she looked shyly at me , unable to meet my eyes .
this was so unlike her that i felt a moment of pity .
a fight with angelo ?
this was melodies boyfriend , a small time hustler who i personally disliked .
of course i generally didnt cotton to anyone who sold cocaine .
she nodded .
it was a bad one .
i was just trying to prove something to myself .
im sorry .
its no problem .
i wish things had worked out between us .
if they did , i wouldnt be stuck with angelo .
he can be such a bastard sometimes .
i raised an eyebrow .
so can i .
things werent always smooth sailing between the two of us .
she frowned , her eyes misted with tears .
angelo is my keith .
they both take advantage of women who are in need .
but i cant help myself .
thats why i feel so strongly about cleora .
you have to do something for her .
ill have to think about it , i said .
come on , lets get you home .
i escorted her down to her car , a new mini cooper .
a chaste kiss on the cheek and i sent her on her way .
i watched the taillights recede into the maze of traffic .
i could already feel the heat of the day slowly start to give away to the chill of the desert night .
it would take hours of time but it was inevitable .
around me were the sounds of civilization people talking , the thud of a car door shutting , and the low rumble of an airplane flying overhead .
but i was far away from all of that .
instead i was thinking that i needed some time and space to forget .
and only then could i make a decision .
fools !
by joseph mackey good day people who read this book .
im joseph mackey , i wrote this book and find it to be quite funny , but do n't take my word for it , judge for yourself .
disclaimer this is a work of fiction .
these people never actually did any of the events in my book .
this is purely for entertainment .
the book is also about the adventures me and my friend dave had while exploring the limits of idiocy .
it originally started out as a joke between me and my college friend , dave chandra .
in this book will be 123 pages of the stupidest things you could imagine people doing , and many things you wish you had done in college .
some people are awarded the buffoon award for being true geniuses quote unquote .
with that being said , let the buffoonery begin .
have fun as i take aim at frat boys , businessmen , professors , perverts , college students , construction workers , strippers , hookers , drunks , stoners , old people , and even president bush .
the last chapter should be considered a public service announcement as i say damn it all regarding the fools , because we need to fix our society , or it will fall from foolery .
and that is not fictional , unlike some of the book .
chapter 1 the suitcase man chapter 2 the man at fau who slipped in his own vomit and busted his balls chapter 3 the guy who got kicked in the nuts by a mule chapter 4 the people who drop valuables in the toilet chapter 5 my own friends chapter 6 the guy who covered himself in honey and got stung 200 times chapter 7 some old woman who dropped her dentures in the toilet and kissed people chapter 8 i swear its true some guy sat in pasta chapter 9 a math professor accidentally drops his pants while lecturing chapter 10 students at fau who skipped on 30 of their grade chapter 11 what are you looking at , oh nothing chapter 12 two guys making out at kfc chapter 13 fools chapter 14 more fools chapter 15 perverts chapter 16 random stupidness chapter 17 stupidity and crime chapter 18 damn it all chapter 19 my girlfriend leah chapter 20 epilogue in the first chapter we have a man who repeatedly dropped his suitcase in the tri rail toilet .
a friend and i , who took the bus to school , could not stop laughing .
my friends name is david chandra .
he and i were going to write the book together , but he didnt like it so i am doing it now .
anyways he and i were cracking up and we said oh man , what a moron .
suitcase guy did this around 9 times before realizing he should leave his briefcase outside the toilet .
this originally happened in my junior year of college , starting in late 2003 , september or october .
this man is worthy of our most esteemed award yeah right , the buffoon award insert fanfare here .
this consists of dave and i sitting around telling jokes about him , laughing at him , and pretending to rubber stamp the word idiot on his head .
he received the buffoon award several times during my tenure at fau .
this is where i first heard of this man of legendary idiocy .
i am sure he does other things too , but i will have to wait and hear about that .
the worst thing is when he dropped his suitcase , other people would fish it out for him .
i dont know about you , but i would just leave it there .
i certainly would not put my hands in to help this goof .
the people who helped him deserve the idiot trophy .
and we give it to him .
its not literally a trophy , but you get the point .
the guy is , unfortunately , the product of the education system of the united states .
this education system has been failing people since it started .
education has always had its flaws , but as time goes on things arent supposed to decline .
however , it has badly .
however amusing these peoples actions are , it is a sign of a more serious problem , people are stupid .
he is also the product of people going against common sense , which people chip away at more and more .
seriously , common sense is dying because individuals think that people are stupid .
some think , i dont want to do what people normally do , even if it is right .
this becomes habitual , and eventually common sense dies out .
the suitcase guy graduates to other forms of foolishness .
he accidently dropped his pants in the toilet one day .
i know what youre thinking , there isnt a man alive who could be so stupid , but youre wrong , and i have eyewitness evidence to back it up .
suitcase guy went to work smelly , and covered in his own slop , which is the nice way of putting it haha .
here , dave and i play the trumpet fanfare .
it is time for the moron marathon where the only competitor is suitcase guy .
in this event , he runs the entire marathon .
and he keeps running .
first he loses his suitcase , then his pants .
how does he hold down a job ?
he can not do so .
eventually he does not but more on that will be said later .
ha ha more on , i made a joke .
anyways he wins the race and is given the idiot trophy .
i know your thinking that there iss no way it gets worse .
however , you would be wrong .
one day i go to the train station and i see the guy slip in the stuff he dropped his pants in dave is there so of course were howling at the sight of this .
luckily i had gloves on , so i help the man to his feet after much laughing .
i asked him what was going on .
he mentioned he had a bit of an accident on the way to work .
i try not to laugh at this , and i ask if he had been drinking the night before .
it turns out he has , he said he always does .
he drank a fifth of whiskey before work every day and another fifth to avoid his wifes nagging .
i said well that explains everything .
drinking , by the way , only makes your problems worse .
it also makes you do things that get you in the fools hall of fame .
i tell him i know hes the infamous suitcase guy .
by the way , i mention , he is a fool who always keeps me amused he is like who , i say the suitcase guy , the train guy who always drops his suitcase in the toilet .
dave just laughs and calls him an idiot .
i say dave cut it out .
save it for later .
the suitcase guy says no he is right .
i am an idiot .
he can say it and so should you .
so i do .
i call him an idiot for his drinking too .
dave was helpless on the floor laughing when he hears all this .
so then the guy gets off the bus and trips .
he lands in a puddle and says oh ! .
that was hilarious .
he then goes off to work which ironically is at fau .
he was later fired for being an idiot .
that was the reason for letting him go .
the boss told him get a clue , or buy one .
he then just leaves never to be seen again , until the next burst of his intellect comes around .
around 3 o clock the same day his intellect shows again .
he tried to come to work on a skateboard .
he got a new job doing pizza delivery .
so he is skating down the road in broad daylight .
there are tons of people to watch his stupidity .
he tries to go as fast as he can .
he hits a bump and goes flying , landing face first .
he was bouncing , and he finally landed on the pizza box he was carrying .
of course dave and i said hey that is the suitcase guy .
i laughed and walked away with the pizza , after helping the old fool off the ground .
it turns out his named is jason tepes .
for those of you unfamiliar with romanian that means the impaler .
it is an odd name since he is too stupid to be murderous .
he claims his friends gave it to him for no reason .
he said he got the job because hes in love with a male stripper and wanted to keep him happy with gifts .
i said strippers make enough money to buy you gifts !
so this idiot went on doing the delivery , even though i split the pizza with dave .
i tried to tell him he did not have a pizza to deliver anymore .
he actually went to the customers house without the pizza .
i thought .
what a moron .
this guy makes 7.50 an hour used to be an executive , and is trying to buy gifts for his gay lover .
the stripper makes 250 350 bucks an hour .
hmmm , maybe i should be a stripper or work in a bar where strippers work .
guys like to buy them drinks , so i would make a lot of money .
eventually , he tells his wife , but thats another story .
i may write the epilogue of that story in the second book .
by the time all these events happen it is eleven a.m. and i missed all my classes .
dave drives us to the mall , and we try to get dates .
i come up empty handed for a while , but then out of nowhere a pretty girl with purple hair shows up .
she was skipping her classes at fau .
her name is jamie .
she leaves with me .
dave does not leave empty handed either .
however , dave likes fat chicks , and he gets one that weighs 400lbs .
he then tries to have sex with her .
i am ecstatic for him .
just kidding , but i am sure you believed it or wanted to believe it .
and i have nothing against fat women , i have something against my friend .
if he really does like them , i say getting laid is getting laid .
after that , we see some fool trying to pick up girls .
he was using lame lines , such as i lost my phone number can i have yours ?
of course , this does not work and he loses every chance he gets .
it is valentines day and a bad one for him .
it was a good one for dave and i .
poor pizza guy did not get to spend time with the stripper of his dreams , as the guy turned out to be 100 heterosexual .
mr. lame lines finally got a date , but it seemed this chick was desperate .
he said the phone number line and she quickly agreed to go out with him .
it turned out that she was from an escort service .
he found out and said he did not care , until he realized he owed her around 3000 dollars .
he said do you take credit cards ?
the escort did .
he tried to put the card in her boobs , but she just left with it .
apparently he did not care because he said the sex was good .
i asked how much was on that card and he says it is thirty grand .
of course , i laughed at this and decided this was the best i have seen all night .
that was until i realized that the hooker was born a man .
that is right , she used to be a he .
i told him and man was he pissed , he also pissed his pants .
i didnt blame him .
he sued her escort company for false advertising , and won a huge settlement in a court of law .
this could start a new trend .
stay tuned for fools 2 , the follow up to fools !
dave got laid and he was happy , i got laid and i was happy , however , pizza guy was hurting .
pizza guy was hit in the face with his last delivery too .
so i then decide to leave boca having had the best valentines day ever .
i laughed with dave about how much of an idiot pizza guy was .
the next few days i look for stuff to write about , but nothing comes up for three weeks , they were the most boring three weeks of my life it seemed .
then it happens , a guy tries to rob a brinks truck .
and he puts a sack full of coins in each pocket .
what a moron .
i guess he thought cash would look too suspicious .
he also tried to carry some change over his head .
the poor dope got sacked by dave , who decided to pull the guys pants down when the cops came , so he would have to decide whether or not to get his pants or run around half naked .
escape jail time and look like a fool , or go to jail with some dignity .
what would you choose ?
well it turns out he did not have a choice , the sack of coins he was holding over his head dumped on him , and the cops refused to give him his pants till he got in the squad car .
it was great , me and dave did air guitar when the cops cuffed him and dave was a star for that day .
of course the dope went for his pants just like dave thought he would .
i would have ran if it was me , but this guy is a genius as it was dave and i got pictures of that too , the quote unquote genius with his pants down while being arrested he had on boxers dont worry these pictures will be in the next book , more buffoons .
he wanted to run but thought he would look stupid without his pants .
so then dave and i celebrate because not only did he see a gross act of buffoonery , he became a hero !
i give him a heros celebration for helping catch the genius .
he got a bunch of wine , champagne , and tons of food .
he shared some of the food , although again he ate 3 whole pizzas .
i couldnt believe it because dave is not a huge guy who you would expect to eat that much , in fact hes pretty average size for his height .
i tried to eat 2 but couldnt surprising since i was a weightlifting king at my school at the time .
the next day we find out the robber is suitcase guy , which is hilarious , but somehow he got away from the cops , thankfully he had a facemask on when he was arrested , but those dopey officers didnt take it off when he was arrested .
in fact , they practically gave him the key to the cuffs and his cell .
so we go out looking for stupid insane people , but come up with nothing so we wind up going to class .
dave gets mobbed especially by girls because he ended up on the front page of the news .
so he calls for me to help him but i say your on your own buddy and dart off to class before they come for me too .
he shouts ill get you for this joe !
then in his desperation he tells the mob that im the one that pantsed the robber pulled his pants down it was great because the coins flew out of his pockets when dave did it .
they knew dave was lying though because they picture shows me just laughing and dave with his hands on the guys pants .
so the mob takes him away and i sing ha ha youre dead by green day despite the obvious fact that they arent going to kill him .
so im pointing and laughing at him while i sing this , and he eventually busts loose from the group .
it appeared they were trying to make him king or something .
they catch him again and put him on the front page of the fau news , the boca news doing an interview on how it feels to be a hero .
he responds by saying hes a hooligan not a hero .
i agree with that on camera , i went on to make some comments as i am his friend and was at the scene of the crime .
we grabbed someone and re enacted the scene of the crime on camera .
he says it was the first thing he could think of doing .
i say its pretty damn funny what he did .
he says hes done this several times , but usually not to criminals .
i believe it and it shows as he does this to lots of people , but thankfully never to me .
me and dave have a laugh over this .
hes like what do you expect joe these people , theyre idiots !
i agree they are idiots .
i certify again that dave is in fact a hooligan .
in fact , i even verify this officially in writing .
so after all the idiocy of this chapter , me and dave do the play by play , instant replay etc haha .
we point out on camera all the stupid things that happened then slow it down so people can comprehend how these things happen .
again this is what happens when common sense is chipped away at slowly .
this is scary people .who knows what will happen next , you should be afraid , very afraid .
the decline of intelligence is amusing but also saddening .
oh and the pizza guy got fired because he showed up without the pizza too many times .
he must have had more accidents , or just gotten hungry and ate them .
i heard from dave that he tried to get into the army so he could make something of himself .
unfortunately , they threw him out on his ass because he was too damn stupid , but he got called back saying they needed stupid people a week later , for the war .
he got called home as a hero after a two year service enlistment .
imagine this goof getting a congressional medal of honor .
well he did he was very lucky and saved his commanding officers life .
it was in the news and everything .
no i am joking , but he did very well and he even got a promotion if he ever came back .
he decided to stay a family man .
the army got him his old job back with a promotion .
he called me and dave to his office when he saw us again .
he wanted to give us jobs being his gophers .
i was like no way , dave said no too .
we werent going to work for a fool no matter how much he paid us to .
he was going to pay us to be his fools .
so we walked out and it turned out that thanks to his big mouth he spilled government secrets he was fired again .
this would have meant that me and dave would get his job .
so we kicked our own asses for not taking the gopher positions .
in any case , we started to making fun of him again .
he actually wound up going to jail for his idiot actions .
he got two years in a military prison .
i was shocked that anyone could be that dumb , but me and dave put on judge wigs and slammed a gavel sentencing him to five years as a moron , doing hard time .
he got out of jail a disgrace to just about everyone .
kids made fun of him , he couldnt get a date with anyone for a year at least , after his wife divorced him and the government seized his house and car .
he eventually wound up being homeless and bums would fight with him over who got the best part of the alley to sleep in .
he eventually got a pardon and went back to the army .
he became a career soldier too .
he is probably in afghanistan or iraq fighting with rebels at the moment .
i found out later that he went awol just tonight dave told me the guy went awol .
oh well the poor guy wound up being sent to canada by mistake anyways so he will be ok .
i laughed and said that guys got some luck .
he woke up that day and said guess what ?
im going to jail .
but he wound up going to canada by accident , the army policeman who made that mistake , letting him go on the wrong plane was kicked out of the army i am sure .
he eventually got his old job back and dropped his suitcase again and again on the tri rail .
it gets less funny each time but hey , its still amuses me and dave .
we dont laugh our butts off over it anymore , but theres plenty of other stuff later that will make you do it .well anyways , he got followed up on by dave , and i am happy to say he stopped dropping suitcases by going to a.a. not alcoholics anonymous , but idiots anonymous .
he stood up and claimed a.a. saved his life .
he decided to go in there and be like my name is john and i have an idiocy problem .
the group was like youre a moron .
just kidding they were very supportive .
he said to them i have a suitcase dropping problem , it caused me to go on all sorts of wild adventures .
they tried their best but couldnt cure him of his problems .
eventually he went through a midlife crisis and tried to become a rock superstar .
he tried to enlist dave and me to be part of his band .
i said ok as long as we can call the band fools in honor of .
you .
well he didnt like that , but it was true .
so he agreed and we actually played a decent show , his wife went up to him and started kicking his ass though because he was acting stupid .
he was hitting up women while dave played the drums and i played the guitar solo .
he was singing and playing bass badly , but who cared the band was called fools and thats what we acted like .
we had a good time though .
me and dave partied until 4 am at wackadoos .
however the suitcase guy wound up passed out drunk in his own vomit and also in a trash can .
we took pictures of this too , and they will be in the movie and the next book .
i was like of course , no one could help this fool , which i went to the meetings to see what they did there , and to help dave admit he was a fool .
just kidding again , dave isnt a fool , .. yet .
but he may become one if he keeps hanging with them or trying to teach them .
i actually tell him to stay away from them , or he will become one of them .
its too late for them though .
theyre stuck as fools for life .
despite this fact , dave and i tried our best to make educated fools out of the college population , but failed miserably , until we graduated , then we just stopped trying .
when we graduated we took one look back , and faking anger we shouted fucking fools !
the day after the suitcase guy decided to try a concert again and we did it , quite well in fact , he played the bass this time .
i rocked out on the guitar and dave did drums .
the crowd loved us but his wife came back and started beating on his ass again , mostly because he was a bad influence on us she said .
we were too busy trying to score with the chicks to care .
we went around saying congrats , we graduated .
we were drinking and whooping it up on stage while the guys getting his butt kicked , he calls for help but i say against a football player or two , sure , an angry woman , your on your own buddy .
chapter 2 a man slips in his own vomit and busts his balls .
this is one i saw on my own unfortunately .
it happened a few days after valentines day 2004 .
dave had apparently said something stupid , and now im like dave now you got god out to get us he laughs and agrees and says he shouldnt have said what he did .
well apparently god was out to get someone but it wasnt us .
he was out to get the pizza guy before it .
he was also out to get some poor guy hooking up with a hooker .
the next story shows me that the almighty has a sense of humor .
it is priceless .
this story is the reason i dont drink or do drugs .
i go to the bathroom one day at school and am almost run over by a huge guy who apparently drank too much because he fell over trying to get into the bathroom .
i help him up and he goes in and pukes his guts .
hes hung over still and misses and gets stuff everywhere .
i am in shock at this and even more so when he stumbles and falls so badly that he bashes his nuts into the toilet .
i didnt see it but he shouts ahhhh i broke my balls so loud that my calling the emts wasnt needed , some happened to be passing by a mile back .
so the paramedics come in and they see what happened and theyre like shit joe this is the fifth time this week someones done this , and also have a look on their faces that suggests this is funny .
so im like hes drunk just to let you know .
they say we know hes done this before , so have we .
they pick him up puts his pants back on him and dave happens by .
so i tell him the details of the incident and then were like idiot in our loudest voices .
we then go off to celebrate my witnessing of human idiocy at its height with pizza at the buffet dave eats much more than i do in his celebration he ate 3 whole pizzas i had 8 plates of food and felt fine except for the runny nose i get when i eat a lot .
dave threw up and i jokingly call him a buffoon .
so then afterwards theyre still trying to help the guy and the ambulance is outside and we see just how bad the guys messed up .
the doctor arrives and busts out laughing when he hears my story of what happened .
i tell him i am deadly serious and he almost joins me and dave in celebrating the stupidity too .
hes really tempted to do so , and it appears the doctor is intoxicated .
in fact he is , but the guy didnt know that note this part is fiction .
the doctor also has a secret , he claims he is in love with a stripper , but this one is female , its his wife or so he claims but he gives the guy a shot of morphine remember he literally busted his balls and then tries to patch him up at fau s medical center .
they were unsuccessful , unfortunately , and me and dave mourn sorrowfully the mans sex life going down the drain .
he warns the man this is why you shouldnt drink so much .
apparently his blood alcohol level was .25 .
he was seriously impaired .
he was so wasted i am surprised he didnt go in the womens bathroom by mistake .
as it was me and dave were laughing again , and this time while he was laying down he got rubber stamped with the word moron on it .
the doctor actually put us up to it , saying he would stop doing things like this , so we thought hey thats a good idea so we did it .
the next day , he woke up with the words idiot and moron stuck on his head in bright black and red letters so everyone could see it .
he of course is embarrassed to hell and runs to the bathroom .
so while hes still drunk he goes to his frat room .
we warned him about drinking again but he didnt listen .
i told him god was out to get him jokingly one of his buddies decides to have a little fun with him .
he brings him to the dorm room , dresses him in girl clothes and gets the other guys to make him do the walk of shame .
now , to make this better one of his friends woke up naked next to him .
he flipped out and firmly resolved never to do drugs or alcohol for the rest of his life .
me and dave are on hand to witness the walk of shame and we both took a pic of this moron .
he didnt actually have sex with another man , but he didnt know that .
he ended up in our most highly esteemed fools hall of fame .
the guy he supposedly slept with really was gay , but didnt try anything , it must have been hard for him , since the other guy was the pretty boy type .
it turns out later that both of them started stripping at tattle tales bar and grill in margate .
and yes they did eventually become lovers they had a marriage ceremony in may of last year , me and dave attended and were given thanks for helping get those two together .
they broke up though because tits mc gee fell in love with a stripper and it was a woman stripper not his male one .
thats what i thought would happen .
so after the fraternity incident we meet the doctor again who was high while on duty .
he was like now the joint is in someone elses hands , what are you gon na do now ?
i thought about that and said what if the joint was in his lawyers hands while he was on trial .
he could go to jail for life or be executed .
if it was in my professors hands i could flunk out of college , and if it was in the bus drivers hands id never make it to college alive .
well we break into his office and smoke a joint with him , then i tell him the gummy bears are out to get you .
of course , he flips out and lands in a garbage can where he spends the night because he is so messed up .
of course he also likes the sauce .
well of course we party hard at the doctors residence hall where he is put on academic probation the next day for getting an f on his final exam because he was so drunk he barely got his name right .
it was his final , final exam .
of course seeing as he was so close to graduation and then he made one careless error , they let him try again .
he barely got by , bringing his gpa up to a 3.5 and graduating .
he then decides to throw another party where he passes out blunts to everyone who attends .
of course me and dave come , but we bring the moonshine , and make fun of the doctor who is passed out drunk at his party .
we crash at his place , while he goes around pretending hes a tv doctor .
the picture will be in my next book .
we again sang somebody told me and pointed at him while doing so .
the moral of the story ?
dont drink around your buddies , they will get you for it , and so will dave and i .
we live for this , by the way , we are making a video of this too .
the next day hes at it again so we decide to have more fun with him when he gets wasted .
we give him a fake id with a porn star name , busty bridgette , and he eventually gets wasted after we put the id card in his pocket .
he got dressed in drag soon after being drunk , which made this even better .
the shenanigans started around 9am when i got to school .
so me and dave parade him around in the drag with his fake id .
he was a military student as well so this is just great i think .
i then show the pictures to his captain , and the guy just laughs .
then later it turns out he made him do pushups in the drag , and serve in the chow line while in drag .
he took a few pictures himself as blackmail ammunition .
i thought that was cruel , i mean blackmail isnt cool , having fun is though .
i was just out to mess with the guy , not completely humiliate him .
apparently the army has a lot of sadists in it .
so then i take the picture i had taken and make copies to send all over fau and boca raton .
of course dave drives us all over the city and i drop the pictures like leaves all over boca , while dave roars laughing .
apparently it spread fast that the guy likes this stuff and everyone points and laughs when they see him again .
of course , we had to sing somebody told me and point at him when he came back to boca .
i thought man , me and dave are evil people to do this to him , but not feeling sad for our actions , i kept them up .
idiocy gets no mercy when we are around .
of course , it was more my idea than daves so i naturally planned everything out .
it was pretty funny though when the guy saw his pictures in trees and sewers and in the auditorium .
finally , he saw it on the school scoreboard blown up so all the students who missed it could see it .
of course , he is embarrassed to hell about this and vows revenge on whoever did that .
well he gets the wrong guy and starts a prank war , which he loses badly since he picked a real practical joker to get revenge on .
it turns out that he eventually left fau and went back to the army .
he was never seen again there , but dave and i were , so we decide to make examples of these fools , and they didnt want to be next .
so for the next few days i look around for idiots to exploit but find nothing .
dave however claims he found plenty .
it later turns out he indeed has , but theyre all the same guy we made fun of last time , so i say come on man lets leave him be hes had enough .
dave disagrees and claims its our duty as scientists to expose the truth , no matter what .
so we see the guy and we laugh at him .
i was still feeling bad for him but dave insists we make fun for all the stupid things he did , like crash his car into a parked car , trip over his own feet , and accidentally walk into a door two times in the same day .
i called out to him saying hey door boy .
he doesnt answer at first , but eventually he admits to all his stupidity .of course these are minor things compared to what he used to do , but still funny .
he was hung over , and going to class drunk as a skunk .
i did this often .
i wonder how i managed to get through college , and without being embarrassed like this dope .
so again me and dave videotaped what happens in this chapter .
itll all be on vhs and dvd called fools the documentary , real people doing real stupid things .
they are not paid actors but quote unquote geniuses .
haha geniuses like the men of rochester , new york .
in fact , if this book sells well , i might go to film on location in good ol rochester to see the plumbers which are mentioned later .
no seriously , i intend to do more research for the next book , which will be even better than the first .
so we go back to the frat party the next day and the guy there is passed out drunk with stuff written all over him by pranksters .
dave grabs a bullhorn and says this is what happens when you drink and park .
he sees the guy passed out drunk and i help him drag the guy into the gutter , shave his head bald , and permanently marker a tic tac toe game on his newly bald head .
the other bums said come on man we wanted to play tic tac toe on his head .
i said hey we saw him first , then i said nah just kidding man here write on him .
we left him there too and announced he was now in a gutter being written on by bums .
i got to use the bullhorn for the rest of the night and i scared an old man into thinking he was being arrested .
he was almost to the point of having a heart attack when i said freeze .
he flipped out and said college students after realizing it was a prank .
we went around pranking all kinds of people doing all sorts of things .
i went into the parking lot and pranked a couple having sex in their car .
i shouted this is the police , come out of the vehicle with your pants on .
of course they realized i wasnt serious after some time .
the guy got pretty mad and i took off like a bat out of hell .
who wouldnt ?
i , no matter what dave will tell you , am not a fool .
i didnt stop pranking people though .
at the end of the night dave says come on joe theyre idiots !
for no reason .
i agreed but asked why he still wanted to use the bullhorn to say it .
we eventually pranked a real cop into letting us use his vehicle , even though i didnt have a drivers license .
i let dave take the wheel and we almost wound up 3000 miles away from home because he took a wrong turn .
i noticed we were in minnesota a few days later .
so i say dave you fool we wound up going to minnesota .
nah just kidding , i would have never gotten back from there .
one of our favorite fools , who requested we not use his real name , did .
i decided to call him seymour butts to save him from embarrassment .
he turned out to be a college student who was majoring in the travel industry .
oops for him .
he wound up there and flipped out realizing he had in fact driven 3000 miles , the wrong way .
he i guess is a typical guy .
so he finally realizes he goofed when he sees the hollywood sign .
at first he thinks he is in a bad movie , but later he realizes he is in california .
oh the madness .
he flips out for about an hour before trying to ask for directions to boca raton .
a failed actor happened to be happening along and said about 3000 miles in the opposite direction .
so he says fine thanks , then spits out his coffee into his pants in a classical double take .
so he speeds off to florida .
he gets back to florida and he has not been to work in two weeks , needless to say he is fired .
he also flunked his final exams because of his foolishness .
he failed out of college .
i realize this is excessive punishment for the crime of stupidity .
i decide to take the case to help him get his life back in order i seem to make a habit of helping the stupid .
unfortunately , i was not able to help him but i spoke to his boss and teachers .
i figured if someone felt sorry enough for him to try to convince them he needed a second chance , then theyd give him one .
man was i wrong .
his bosses ignored me , and his professors called me a fool .
in fact , they shouted fool at me for interceding for this guy .
i was insulted and didnt try to get involved in fixing the real fools problems anymore .
he of course , couldnt get out of them and drowned in them .
he now works at mcdonalds and lives in a trailer park with his 2 kids and his girlfriend who by all accounts is trailer trash .
actually , he got fired from mcdonalds for being an idiot and spilling fry cooking oil on the boss .
i have heard of worse , so i was not that surprised .
so then me and dave bust into his apartment with more evidence of his foolery .
dave had apparently seen the guy get lost on the highway again and hit some other fool who happened to slam on the brakes .
it wouldnt have been a problem if the guy had brakes to hit when he saw this .
the fool , whos real name was henry james , couldnt stop because he didnt have the money to fix his car , because he lost his mcdonalds job .
we asked his roommates what they thought of him , and they all said well , hes an idiot .
they said hank shouldnt have gotten into college in the first place , i mean hes not that smart as youve probably seen .
he cheated all the way through high school off of people dumber than him .
somehow he managed to get by though .
he eventually cheated his way back into college somehow and his old job too .
or he tricked everyone into thinking he belonged there .
eventually he bumbled his way through his restaurant management classes and became head waiter at chilis , haha just kidding .
he barely passed on his own he says and got a 2.0 gpa somehow .
he must be telling the truth , if he cheated he would get better grades .
he however , did have to go back to mcdonalds because he was caught stealing free samples at his job .
they started him out as a crew member again unfortunately .he eventually rose to middle management , then became the ceo of his own franchise .
its the peter principle again .
eventually , however , the fool in him got him in trouble and he ran the company into the ground .
such a sad thing to happen to such a fine fool but it did .
his coworkers stamped the word fool on him at the companys last christmas party .
he woke up and shouted who did this ?
no one confessed .
he later wound up having to work as a mascot in a chicken shop , and got a bad case of gas that got him in trouble everywhere .
he ended up being the laughing stock of his graduating class and will probably go to his tenth college reunion as a bagboy in publix or some other ridiculous thing .
seriously , i am scared for him and for people in general because of his actions .
he dragged his roommates and college buddies down with him too thats the really scary thing .
actually , i just heard that he became an adjunct professor at beer can college .
for those fools who dont know what that is , its really broward community college .
he belongs there with all those professors who couldnt get real university teaching jobs .
haha just kidding , i might start teaching at a community college if i get my masters degree in something .
chapter 3 a guy got kicked in the nuts by a mule .
one day on the weekend off , i noticed some guy getting really angry , he was swearing up and down at his mule and he did the one thing you should never ever do to a mule or any other animal .
he kicked it right in the hind parts .
well that got me to thinking what is going to happen to him .
i knew hed get kicked back but where he got kicked you wouldnt have guessed , yep right in the nuts dead on full hit , ten points to the mule .
i almost feel sorry for the poor sap .
it is sad what our society has become , but its his own fault .
now i see this and crack up laughing because animal cruelty by people is never right , but if the animal hits the next of kin its funny .
so i happen along and call the guy a certifiable imbecile for doing that .
i mean youre supposed to go to heaven on a mule not kick one .
if youre dumb enough to let one kick you in the nuts you are without a doubt an imbecile .
so then he gets up swearing even more and im thinking this guy needs medical attention .
i call the ambulance and they come and pick him up along with the cops to arrest him once hes ok .
apparently kicking a mule is now a crime in margate where the incident took place .
i was told he is on felony charges for that .
i called dave and he says cool !
what an idiot , we laugh like hell at the guy .
we even go to the jail cell where hes held to make fun of him , and we go to the trial where the judge a passed a sentence of 5 years in prison for getting kicked in the nuts by a mule essentially .
we then sound the idiot alarm and do some air guitar rock stuff after the trial was over .
we celebrate again and laugh because not only did he get kicked he went to jail .
the next day , his son comes out and does the same thing .
now his son lived in iowa where mules and fools go together .
so hes not too bright and gets mad at the mule for getting his father in trouble .
his dads sentence was eventually overturned , but this guy kicked the mule , the mule kicked him in the nuts and he wound up landing in a large cow pie face first .
i said oh shit when i saw this .
pun intended .
it was grand , but the guy needed medical attention so i called 911 and they came .
i told them to bring a lot of gloves since he landed in cow s .
the guy was embarrassed , but at least he knew better than to get too upset at me for saying that .
so then the medics get there .
they cant believe what happened and they say hey guys get a load of this goof .
of course that moron was screaming so loud it was unbelievable .
they had to operate on him , thankfully i wasnt around for that .
im sure it wasnt pretty .
as it was he was back to his normal idiot self in no time .
eventually , he moved to rochester , home to the quote unquote genius .
ill never forget this guy as he was the next of kin to that mule , since no one else was there .so then i decide to file a claim for the unused farm , since i thought it would be cool to have a farm .
i do not get it but i decide to stay there for the time being anyways .
i got the nickname farmer joe for a while but i got used to it .
at least i am smart enough not to kick any mules .
the next few days were really boring , no stupid stuff happened .
then it turns out the first mule kicker escaped from jail , i dont know how he did it with his injuries but he did .
the sad thing is he does it again , what a moron , but this time the mule breaks his arm , so he isnt likely to get away this time .
the cops and emts scoop him up , and of course i happen to be on the scene just in time for the judge to pass another 5 years for running away .
im just in disbelief of this mans idiocy but i really shouldnt be .
so then his son finds out about this and comes back raising hell .
i get out of his way because he thinks its my fault hes in jail , which it isnt .
he tried to fight me but he swung and missed by a mile because he was drunk .
i didnt hit him back because of two things , first i felt sorry for the poor guy , second he missed by that mile and landed face first in a cow pie .
i just left laughing i didnt need to be involved with that kind of trouble .
he lays there not even opening his mouth to swear at me because if he does cow pie gets in it .
its the least tasty pie youve ever tasted im sure .
of course dave happens to be on hand to check out the stupidity firsthand , and compliments me on the way i handled the fight .
i told him there was no fight , he took a swing and missed me by a mile .
of course this sets off a chain of laughs and we take a look at the moron with his face in cow crap .
it was a sad day for him to say the least .
dave gets mad at him and says look at you youre covered in cow shit and you cant even get up the cops are on their way and this is what they are going to see .
so he doesnt move and dave says youre a fool and walks away .
the cops of course scoop him up but they are not happy about having to remove him .
so they call the courthouse and say cant they just let this one slip , i mean he will eventually pass sentence on himself anyways .
you are not seeing what i am seeing here your honor he says .
so the judge says fine hes a ! ! !
idiot let him be .
the paramedics however , have to help him out of that .
i feel sorry for them and wait around to see their reactions .
of course it was worse than i had expected .
they say hey joe this is the fifth time this month this has happened , haha just kidding .
they do say something about this becoming more and more common .
so they haul his ass away and i wave goodbye to him .
eventually he does pass sentence on himself , sticking a fork into a toaster to pull out part of a piece of bread .
he is carted off to the e.r , but checks out anyways as he is burned pretty badly from electroshock .
he was survived by his ex wife his son and his pig .
reportedly the pig was the only one mourning his death .
his ex wife went to hawaii with the life insurance payment , his son remained in margate and took care of the pig .
he got custody of the pig .
oops i got it wrong , the pig got custody of him .
i heard the pig took good care of him haha hes such a fool .
the judge actually said the pig had custody of him by the way , and no he wasnt joking .
thats right , theres a man walking around margate with a hog as his legal guardian .
again this is what our country has descended into .
judges are making loony rulings like this but more on this later .
so anyways it turns out the pig takes good care of him and they get on fine together .
yes thats right .
eventually the guy got mad and decided that when their love went sour well lets just say he has enough bacon to last him a year .
oh yes it turns out he made a new song called hog love .
they went on dates together , had relations , and even were going to get married in the state of nevada , las vegas .
unfortunately , like i said their love went sour .
dave happens to be on hand to explain what relations is for illiterate fools .
it means they had sex , apparently the farmers son wanted to have kids with a pig .
however it later was found out that not only is interspecies breeding impossible , the pig was also male .
the farm boy decided it was time to hang himself at that point , but instead fried the pig for bacon .
i heard it was tasty .
so then the pig loving fool decides to bury the rest of the pig in mud , unfortunately he slips in a soft patch and yells fools !
as he goes down .
he lands in the mud and it covers him completely .
apparently he was drunk and in mourning because he committed his crime of passion and said oh god what have i done ?
the pig was survived by the pigs son and its pig on the side haha .
the pig was having an affair .
so in any case the man mourns the pigs passing by eating all the bacon in one monstrous sitting .
well he tries to anyways , but he had a hundred pounds of bacon and pork left .
chapter 4 people who drop valuables in the toilet i heard a man dropped 500 dollars in cash and equipment down old flushy .
thats right , down the drain where the water runs foul theres 500 dollars in cash and electronic equipment .
its sitting there for anyone who wants to dive in after it although its probably disintegrated by now the poor fool had to decide whether or not to be a man and use his hand according to the old saying .
essentially he decided to let it go and be a better man for his loss .
he made the right choice , but is still a fool for losing the stuff in the first place .
i mean , how do you do something like that .
did he have it in his hands then go , oops ?
or did it fall out of his pockets and hop in the water ?
anyways , some people were less lucky .
however , a girl , who was a friend of my friend dave was not so lucky .
she did the same thing and reached in to get them .
poor her .
it turned out that the stuff she made the great sacrifice to reach in for was electrically fried from the water .
it was a total waste .
whoa , now your thinking , gross i would sadly let it go .
again this is what our society has degenerated to .
i agree she should have , but she was a genius quote unquote .
this person wasted their effort grabbing stuff to get well.stuff .
arent you glad i have spies to tell me about things like this ?
as she realized she grabbed her electronics and they were ruined she shouted fools !
loudly enough to wake the dead , or at least some students who were sleeping in class .
it really was a waste too since she was quite lovely as dave tells it .
oh well at that point i start making fun of dave for having a crush on a girl who is obviously a research subject , and a fool .
which is funny since i have seen some pretty smart engineering students , in fact some are my new friends here in alabama .
i dont think they did such things .
i guess she cheated her way through .
so to her , we present the moron award insert singing and lyrics here .
ha ha so then i go home and dave tells me that another person did something stupid and it turns out it was the same person who reached in , they were having really bad luck that day .
i accused dave of doing the same thing but he claims yeah right that all he dropped is toilet paper .
sure dude we believe you .
i kept after him about it and he admits to dropping his house key once but more about that later .
itll be a side splitter though i promise .
o.k .
o.k .
these two gay guys bug him but thats all for now .
then some guy drops his car keys in a sewer at fau .
now this guy is richer than the law should allow but got dang it he is a fool .
he lost his keys to a rolls royce damn it .
now he tried to reach into the sewer because there was a grate through which he could see the keys but he over did it and fell in , he shouted oh shit as he tumbled down , bam !
piss and stuff land all over his five thousand dollar suit .
it was horrible , i mean the guy walked out badly needing a bath and gallons of cologne .
he never smelled so bad in his life , i think , or looked so bad .
he walked through the streets wearing all that when he got out .
he got in his car and tried to cruise for chicks .
he got some , but man they were ugly and were going to take whatever they could get .
apparently he was too and went riding around with muck all over his clothes and hair , and he got some on the girls .
it was hilarious i actually got a picture of this brazen fool joyriding .
his father saw him drive up and said oh no not again i interviewed him after the sighting of his foolery .
his father was worse off than he was though , foolish wise , but that belongs in a separate book .
his father didnt even need to ask to realize the situation exactly .
so his son , whose name was garreth jackson , comes in to clean up as he realizes man i reek .
so he tells the girls to wait there and they say , damn man , we need to wash up too after your stank ass got slop on us !
well come with you .
i was like damn man why cant i get girls to do that with me ?
oh wait , i can i said .
however , i wouldnt , well not like that anyways .
he did it once before i guess .
so he goes in the shower with the two girls and shouts , oh shit !
again because he forgot the condoms .
so the fool says , ahhh who cares .
and has sex with them anyways .
he becomes a father at the age of 19 of course .
his father is pissed but its ok because the guy has a job at his dads factory .
he then drops out of college to take care of the children he has from 2 different women .
so he finished college about a year after i did , although for him it took a little longer , 6 years he said .
so i laughed at this and said well at least youre not a complete waste of flesh .
he responded by giving me more reasons to write about him in a book of fools .
i leave and he winds up slipping on a banana peel cracking his head open on the sidewalk .
i heard he checked out that night .
i went to the funeral services and threw rotten tomatoes and other fruits at the casket because i figured it would be the way he wanted to be remembered .
he died the way he lived .
then there are certain people from rochester , new york .
dave , in fact is from rochester , new york .
i have bothered him numerous times about being a quote unquote genius .
he claims to be a true genius though .
im not convinced of this i say .
this place is home to the quote genius unquote as he says .
one man , a plumber went to a house call and got his arm stuck in a drain .
he dropped a wrench in and couldnt get himself out .
he then shouted fucking fools !
when he realized he was stuck .
i almost died from hearing this .
needless to say he was fired as the fire department had to use the jaws of life to get him out .
he was visibly upset , especially when the firefighter asked him , where did you learn to plumb , in the sink ?
i agree with that , i mean that is the only thing that makes sense there .
the guys then cut the toilet out which really got him in trouble .
the homeowner decided to sue the plumbing company , and won a million dollar lawsuit .
the company wanted to kill the idiot plumber , who i felt kind of sad for .
he founded his own plumbing company out of his house , which was a disaster .
his wife called him an idiot and went to visit her mother for a few weeks .
he went to visit his father for a few to go fishing in the mountains .
he left the business in daves hands , who tried to give it to me , i was like im not touching this one , no way .
no i am just kidding , the guy wouldnt be that dumb , or would he ha ha youll never know .
one day he comes back and the business he started is run into the ground , literally .
his house was ruined and man was he pissed off , he was also pissed on , by one of the plumbers he hired .
the man had won the lottery so he decided to piss on the boss .
he decided however to be the oddball that would keep his job .
so when he did that the other guys he worked with all wanted to beat him down .
of course he decided against going back to work and got himself a personal trainer so that he would not resemble a plumber anymore .
he of course was too stupid to follow the instructors instructions .
ha ha , hes that stupid .
i would try to help the poor guy but i cant .
dave might be able to , but he would lose his patience faster than me .
eventually it turns out that the trainer was able to get him to slightly less resemble a plumber .
in fact , the plumber , well the former plumber was doing really good , but one day he slipped on one of his doughnuts , shouted oh fudge and had a squat bar fall on him and a guy who was bench pressing .
well if they werent both seriously injured i think the bench press guy would have tried to kill him .
the plumber had 225 on the rack .
the bench press guy had 315 on the rack .
dave saw what had happened and said oh !
call the cops !
so they take the guys away in ambulances and the plumber decides to give up weight training .
he does however , while he recovers , eat doughnuts all day everyday he was in traction it seemed .
his leg was broken and he couldnt go back to plumbing .
he had a high school education , so what did he do ?
he became a cop .
somehow he managed to pass all his physical and mental requirements he probably bribed the senior officers .
so now he is probably riding around in nyc eating doughnuts and pretending hes still a plumber .
i heard he robbed a drippy dream shop in rochester and got caught by actual robbers looking to make a name for themselves .
dave told me the guy got caught and they made him quit the force and be a part of their heists so he couldnt squeal on them .
i asked him how he knows this and he says he was doing research for this book long before i was .
unfortunately it turns out this plumber cop crook wound up cutting his time in a criminal career short .
he got carted away by the real police when he ended up shooting himself in the butt .
yeah he put his gun in his back pocket and sat down to eat pizza in the middle of a heist .
of course the gun went off and he ran around like an idiot .
he confessed too which was a testament to his endless foolery .
it wasnt so much that he confessed to the robbery that makes him so much the fool , but what he did after robbing the bank and how he shot himself .
so he then says to dave , i woke up and found out im going to get shot hahaha .
well someone should have shot him , hes not just a fool , he is a menace to the entire society .
i heard from dave that the guy got 20 years for the last heist he was in but got 3 life sentences overall .
then , there was the guy on the track field .
many years ago , at least five , some guy , also from rochester , ran around a track and at some point his pants , boxers , and all fell to the ground .
he stopped running unaware he was naked and said , damn it suddenly got cold out here .
what a doofus .
a lot of girls were watching him .
i laughed when i heard this one .
it was funny , but not a riot like the guy driving into a ditch and babbling boobs over and over again .
he stopped running to pull his pants up , but it was too late , everyone had seen the goods , or the bads depending on how you looked at it .
he was kind of chubby due to his love of anything fried , including donuts and pizza .
one would ask why he was even out there in the first place .
well , his school made him do it , more or less .
it was a graduation requirement at his high school .
so he was running and he had on baggy jeans like prison guys wear .
man , those guys need belts .
in my opinion , guys who wear that are idiots if they run while wearing them .
so then the coach comes over to see what the hell happened and she does it too .
now , she is a teacher who came right from college so all the guys are staring when she does it .
they thankfully ignore the moron who was trying to run around the track .
so the guy sees this and shouts donuts !
this was because he spilled his donuts while running around the track .
his eyes bugged out of his head though .
he flipped out of course .
he kept running though , so he could get his hands on the woman , or so he thought .
what a fool , he tripped over his donuts and landed flat on his face .
dave ran by when the story took place and took what was left of the guys food and started eating it .
he picked the guy up though so he could keep running .
it was hilarious .
the poor guy , i am sorry to say did not get to touch that sweet ass , but at least he made an a in p.e .
from trying to run faster .
dave , however , did get to put his hands on her .
it became a huge scandal at the school he said .
he also stopped eating donuts and pizza eventually and became a stupid jock .
he was one of those guys who got better looking and lost the ability to conceptualize up and down .
nah he couldnt be that bad , but he came to fau with dave so i got to see firsthand how bad it was .
it was worse actually .
so it turns out he got to go there on a football scholarship .
the guy still said donuts when something unexpected happened like his pants falling down or him slipping in his junk food .
how he got to be a football player i will never know .
i am glad i took advice from a very wise person who advised me not to be a part of that .
football players are such fools i have heard , no wait that was basketball players .
one of my sociology professors , dr. evans , stated that one of his students got a 12 on an exam .
12 !
i couldnt conceptualize that kind of thing .
whats wrong with these people .
dave came in that day and said duh joe these athletes are fools !
its true when you hang out with idiots you become one .
all the athletes did was socialize with each other and talk about sports .
they never cracked the books open for fear of looking like a nerd .
its better to be a nerd than a fool .
doesnt that scare them ?
it would scare me .
and football players , dont get me started on them .
college football players , around one third are fathers .
fathers !
they shouldnt even consider that sort of thing until they are out of college .
however , many of them have kids for some sort of welfare thing i heard .
its absolutely mind boggling how stupid these people are .
it gets worse , im sure , but i dont have the evidence yet .
but rest assured i will follow these idiots until i find something foolish that theyve done .
news flash , it turns out the guy who got 12 on the exam was a mens basketball player for florida atlantic university .
i laughed uncontrollably over that , and dr. evans asked me why i was laughing .
i responded by saying got dang man its a 12 .
he asks again why that is funny .
i say because these guys are fools !
ahhh rochester is always good for a laugh .
i heard another man in rochester , a firefighter , almost burned the firehouse down .
he was branded a quote unquote genius .
dave had a hell of a time explaining that one to me .
i was hysterical hearing it .
i mean a fireman doing that ?
that would be like a cop who murdered other cops or blew up the station .
of course he was fired from his post , i mean this guy was like pointless to have there in the first place .
who does these things , and why do they do them ?
the answers will be revealed shortly .
dave goes to tell me the short answer , because theyre idiots .
the truth behind it is that these people have no common sense .
i mean the guy was found grilling steak in the firehouse and misused gasoline , the paper said .
who in their right mind uses equipment without knowing how to use it right ?
far too many people if you ask me .
as it was he set himself on fire too .
what a fool .
the next day he starts working as a construction worker .
i see him working on something at fau .
my mind wanders to all the worst case scenarios that could occur .
he does one , because he doesnt know how to use the equipment .
the poor guy , whose name is harry dickler , by the way , is a klutz .
he wrecked some of the project he was working on , and nearly killed himself , the foreman and other workers .
how did he manage this ?
he rode on a jackhammer like an idiot and wound up spilling a bunch of oil all over the beams .
it was hilarious and also scary , what if everyone were to turn out this way .
it could happen , there ought to be a law that says people like this cant have children .
according to my partner in crime , dave chandra b.s. , its genetic , stupidity is hereditary .
now for the fools who dont know what that means , it means its passed on from parents to their children from birth .
again most of the college students didnt know what he was talking about , so he tried to simplify it further .
he drew a picture , but still some students had no idea what it was .
he gave up , and in his disgust he said you fools are all going to end up like him !
i shudder to think that he may be right .
i hope he isnt because i couldnt live in a world like that .
of course the guy was fired and dave gave up trying to educate the college students , because he says theyre all fools .
so dave shouts fools !
and he walks away from the small group he was teaching .
i feel sorry for dave , he always tries to make the world a more educated place , and then these damn college fools get in the way of that .
i m not just trying to be funny here the college students at fau were fools when i was there and will be long after .
they tend to be stupider than people who didnt go to college and became fools .
i heard the two guys who harassed dave were from rochester but that is another story .
they may get their own book , idiots three .
again dave himself was from rochester which i gave him hell about , since some of our stories came from that same place .
next there was a guy who managed to set himself on fire .he was doing a barbeque for his friends and accidentally spilled something that he mislabeled as booze on himself .
he grabbed a match and lit the grill .
it was actually lighter fluid and the flames leapt out at him .
of course like a fool he shouted gas !
he ran around .
to add to it he accidentally dropped the match in his trousers .
he thus lit his own testicles on fire as well .
of course , this was priceless and shows stupidity at its height .
he wound up in the er .
i then wound up eating most of the food at his party after seeing this .
i was like well cant let this good food go to waste .
dave and i had quite the party after that .
it lasted till 4 am with beer real beer not lighter fluid flowing freely .
his friends toasted him but called him a total buffoon for lighting himself on fire .
i finally passed out at 4 am , dave passed out drunk as a skunk .
some people were still acting stupid but most had gone home or passed out as well .
rochester is home to many quote unquote geniuses .
one guy was reading a newspaper and had walked into the street , no big deal .
however , he walks right into an open manhole .
of course , he shouts look out below , to the rats in the sewer .
the rats , of course , vacate the area temporarily , but then a few bite him , ouch .
he doesnt die but hes pretty badly injured .
he broke his arm in 2 places and dislocated his leg .
the paramedics were doing rock paper scissors to see who had to go down there this time .
it was horrible because the guy stank so bad , and was hurting so much .
he had been a playboy before the incident , but couldnt get a date for a year following the incident .
i wouldnt be surprised .
who would want to be around that , the stench was bad enough but the buffoonery he made was much worse .
i was slightly in shock to hear about what he did , but not as much as i used to .
i was getting used to the stupidity of people .
finally , in boca a guy decided to go around walking the streets asking where his platoon was .
this was when he walked out of his house wearing a diaper on his butt and a pacifier in his mouth .
so the men in white coats came and took him to the funny farm , which is where he belonged .
dave couldnt comprehend at first what he was seeing when they took the guy away .
i couldnt believe i was lucky enough to have seen such lunacy .
i actually told him his platoon was in a bar called tattletales , a gay bar .
so because i love messing with the stupid not the retarded , thats just cruel i gave him the directions for it when the men in white coats let him go .
it should be noted that in fact , dave had called the men in white coats to get him .
he was like ohhohohohhho joe this is front page news , so i gave him my cell phone to call the funny farm for pickup .
so we then skip school to watch this and the cops come by telling me for the thousandth time i should be in school .
i tell him look i am nearly graduating college and its my day off .
he didnt believe me until i showed him my id .
apparently im a minor to them despite the fact i am now twenty five years of age .
so we go to the funny farm and laugh at the loons there , especially our favorite one , and sure enough he asks some guy in a batman suit where his commanding officer is .
i tell him i am his commanding officer and tell him to put on some pants he was still wearing his diaper and pacifier i also tell him to take the damn pacifier out .
he doesnt do it and i say damn it youre a fool and leave him in his idiocy .
he breaks out and follows us but dave calls him an idiot and he walks away .
he comes back five minutes later claiming the martians are coming to take him home .
i try to find them but dave says , come on joe there are no martians , he is just nuts .
so i tell the guy to go call the cops to tell them about this and they call for the men in white coats to pick the guy up .
however , they refuse saying hes too nuts to be in their hospitals .
so the cops just laugh at him and let him loose in the streets .
now mind you , this is one of those college students that dave tried to educate previously , but he smoked too much dope and became one .
so the guy tried to drive away in a police cruiser .
he plays too much driver , a video game for playstation unfortunately , someone put a bomb in that cruiser and it went sky high as did the college fool .
he crashed down to earth and said i m ok and passed out .
me and dave decided to have more fun with him , tying him up with ropes and chains then carting him off to a mental hospital emergency room .
we bust in wearing surgical masks and shouting doctor we have to operate .
then we tell him no were kidding , but it was funny .
this was after he got patched up by the emergency room for his physical wounds .
the doctor shouts damn college kids after we leave , and then he says fools !
so we forgot that we left the guy in the e.r .
anyways , we leave the funny farm dave followed the men in white coats to the funny farm .
we then throw a party because we have witnessed a great act of stupidity , by a man who was judged later to be legally insane .
we then howl laugh hysterically all the way back to fau for our final exams the next day and graduate .
of course , i have the time of my life during all this as i showed up at my graduation drunker than ever .
dave showed up stewed to the gills , and obviously reeking of pot .
we tried to score with the chicks and we did get buzzed drinking in celebration .
we had our whole lives ahead of us unlike many of the college fools who dave and i tried to make smarter .
also there were a lot of non college educated fools who we tried to help , but they were lost causes .
fools !
i love them .
then there was a guy who wanted to buy stock in mars real estate .
i was like he wants to buy a house on mars .
so me and dave pretend we are realtors and we sell him a mansion on mars .
of course the guy gave us a fake check so we cancel his house on mars .
he then decides to make a deal with the devil .
i decide , dave this is too good to pass up .
we flip a coin to see who gets to pretend to be the devil .
dave wins , but he wasnt convincing me he was devilish enough so he lets me try .
i convince him i really am satan , so i go to the guy and say hey you as loud as i can .
im the devil and i heard you want to make a deal with me .
the guy nearly faints because he thinks he is in hell after smoking too many funny cigarettes .
dave knows what that means , he was smoking a few funny cigarettes on the bus a few times , or got on looking like he had .
so the guy decides to sell his soul to me for a lot of money .
i say here sign this contract which my lawyer will review and ill give you money .
i ended up giving him a box of monopoly money after he signed his soul to me .
he later decided it wasnt a fair trade and demanded his soul back .
i however showed him the contract that dave reviewed and it showed it was legal .
he complained about the fake money but it said in the contract that it would be fake money , this is exactly what he signed for .
well he didnt like it but this is why you shouldnt smoke and fly or drink and drive .
you dont know what youll do , this has been a public service announcement by one half of the idiocy police .
well he threatened to take me to court and indeed he tried , but they threw the case out , laughing at him .
well actually they just laughed at him and booted him out of the courthouse , telling him not to sign contracts while impaired .
he tried to sue me again while i was in full devil regalia .
the court laughably took this up seriously and named a case lucifer a.k.a the devil vs. jonathan jones .
they actually took his case seriously and said your deal with the devil is legally binding due to the contract mr. chandra dave reviewed .
the court ordered him to pay lawyer fees and determined the persons soul now belonged to me and was free to do whatever i wished with it .
i decided to try to sell it on ebay but no one would buy it after i said how i got it .
so i kept it and later traded it for sex from a crack whore .
he decided who cares if i am going to hell i might as well do it with style .
i agreed but eventually gave it back to him , after all this was supposed to be a prank .
he tried to sell his soul to the devil again , but this time while sober .
i then trick him again , then inform him his soul is now property of my dog kringle , to which he is alarmed greatly .
now i didnt think there was a guy who could top this but there was , a guy who claimed he was god jesus .
he went around condemning people and trying to cast fire and brimstone .
he tried to smite me and dave , calling us sinners and heathens because i told him to go to hell .
i told him if hes god he could jump off a building and not hurt himself .
so he jumped off the nearest one of course and broke his arm .
i laughed at him and then called for the fau medical team .
i told them to be careful and to send some men in white coats because this guy thinks he is god .
they said he thinks hes god , i said yes god as in the christian god .
he went on complaining about how he died to save sinners , which was funny since he was clearly doing all the things jesus would never do .
he was talking !
about the ! pharasees and the religious men of two thousand years ago , and how the people of today had nothing on them .
he still talked a bunch of ! ! ! !
about todays people though , about how instead of worshipping him they do drugs and have sex .
he was out of his mind .
he was a basket case that was funny to watch .
so then he tells dave hes going to hell for no particular reason .
i think he just likes saying that .
dave tells him he is going to the nuthouse .
dave tells him also that hes going to hell in a great and loud voice .
so the medics come and he insists on not taking medical treatment , because he says hes god .
so then the men in white coats come and he tells them theyre going to hell .
i told him yeah but youre going to the nut house .
so dave naturally wants to follow him and i , although i am tired from staying up all night for finals , agree to go .
we then see he stopped claiming he was god jesus and claimed he was the squirrel from a music video .
ridiculously enough , he also claimed he was the hot dog that the massage guy calls for help from .
of course , im helpless with laughter after hearing that .
its insanity at its best .
so in december 2003 i am watching this guy claim hes all these fake people animals food .
they have him there to this day i am sure .
so the day after i go to the nuthouse with dave the guy still believes hes the hot dog from the music video .
it is quiet for a month , yeah a whole month goes by until someone does something dumb , or at least something i catch .
the downtime was good to review and reflect the idiocy of the year gone by .
i then say its been a good year no relation to the tire store .
then january 2004 , new years day rolls around .
dave tells me suitcase guy is at it again .
he wound up losing his wedding ring in the sink .
that wasnt all , he tried to get it out and wound up wrecking his bathroom .
he pulled the pipe open to see if it was in there .
it wasnt , it had been rushed all the way down the drain .
he is being flooded by this point and doesnt think to shut off the water .
so he continues to look , probably thinking , man i am an idiot , i mean i would be if i were him .
so dave continues telling me what he heard and i can not stop laughing .
it would be funnier if i could show you .
however , its still great example of how stupid this guy is .
then the plumber comes in and first tries to shut off the water .
no luck there .
so the guy literally has to swim around in the water .
what is worse is the plumber is not much brighter than the homeowner , if any .
he accidentally ends up breaking the toilet pipe .
so then toilet water is flowing into the room .
by then , the water is almost up to the guys chest .
of course , ! !
is flowing into the room and on them .
they never find the ring of course because it went down the drain , but they keep searching .
they almost drown , but the plumber finally shuts off the water , although unfortunately the plumber shows his butt to the homeowner by accident .
the end of the story is that the plumber is fired and a cleanup crew has to take over the guys house for a bit .
his wife beats on him for losing the ring and not getting it back .
he has to buy her a lot of expensive gifts for her to forgive him .
it sucks being a moron , thankfully , i do not have to deal with that , nor does dave .
so then dave happens to walk by him one day on the street and shout fool !
i was embarrassed and said dave cut it out .
he had on his graduation suit too , which made it all the more funny to see this .
the fool had on his plumber outfit though and said college students .
i dont know why he was mad at us .
i mean we didnt do anything except expose his idiocy .
so dave shouts back ! ! !
plumbers , theyre all fools !
dave ran like hell after that and caught the bus to school .
the next day it happens again and the plumber looks like hes going to deck dave , but he just yells college students and dave yells plumbers .
eventually they both just laugh their butts off because of the absurdity of the situation .
in fact they became the best of friends .
dave however realized why he said plumbers soon after and got disgusted of him .
so dave returns back to florida to watch the idiocy that happens here , but he claims nothing can compare with good old rochester .
of course i repeatedly bother him about his living in rochester , which always makes him laugh .
he insists he is a real genius , but i m not so sure sometimes , like the time he dropped his keys and the gay guys got to him .
they really pissed him off .
chapter 5 my own friends .
my friends have been a minefield of information for this book .
they have done so many dumb things it hurts to list them .
first off is tony salimbene he is dumber than dirt he graduated from high school with a special education diploma first of all , and second he acts like it .
for example , i was hanging out with him when i was in college he didnt attend .
i wonder why .
note the sarcasm .
he started dating 4 or 5 girls at a time , and he got caught all the time .
that isnt the worst though , one time we were at an amusement park and two of his girlfriends showed up there .
he was on a date with one the other just was there .
he tried to pass one off on me which worked well until they found out i wasnt dating anyone .
they then both broke up with him , although it worked for the night .
they probably beat his skinny ass to a pulp afterward though .
i would have if i were them .
then there was his girlfriend lizzy .
i didnt care much for her because she gave tony so much trouble , but they deserved each other .
anyways she tells him , tony i think i am pregnant and he says whos the father .
now if they had had sex she should be upset at him .
they hadnt slept together , yet she got pissed .
in fact tonys probably too stupid , to this day to get any woman to go to bed with him .
now if that isnt stupid i dont know what is .
i mean having sex is , to my knowledge , the only way to procreate .
and yes i did need to put that in there , since some people obviously dont understand that .
either that or shes a ho and just got mad at tony to cover up , whatever .
i mean a song by ludicrous comes to mind .
tony still doesnt catch on to the fact that she might be cheating on him .
if i had a girlfriend who told me that i would break up with her , if i hadnt been sexually active with her .
in fact i would have actually said one of two things , one , youre a fool !
how can you say that and then get mad at me thats how people procreate .
or two you cheated on me , were through .
he acted like everything was ok except for her being so stupid .
this was confusing since hes no rhodes scholar himself .
he makes beavis and butthead look like college professors .
she makes them look like harvard medical doctors , maybe even tokyo university doctors .
what amazes me and i just realized this is someone out there exceeds his stupidity rating .
that is just scary , i hope he and her never have sex or children because tony would forget the condom , have kids , and they would be a bunch of retards .
id feel sorry for kids like that .
in fact it should be a crime for them to have kids at that level of idiocy .
next would be bret pries .
im not trying to trash bret he volunteered himself for this book .
his misadventures are hilarious .
it is a good thing too , i could write the rest of my entire book on his escapades this means misadventures .
one time he almost became a farm boy .
i called him farmer bret .
haha man what a stupid move .
i believe that this is why he says im a dumbass to himself .
he gets the idiot medal when i see him again .
im actually going to give him a medallion stating hes a certifiable idiot nah i realized that would be too mean .
he did not go through with being a farmers assistant for the reason that he would stink too much like a horse .
however , what is the point of working if you dont come home smelling of manure ?
my father used to do that all the time .
i would have done it for fun , i mean just temporarily .
then there was the time he drove home from a party while higher than a kite with wings .
now youre thinking damn what an idiot , and youre right operation of a car while under the influence is really stupid .
i totally agree with that , he should have his license rescinded .
for the illiterate fools , dave would say this means taken away .
no actually , i think he would give up trying to teach anyone anything , get pissed off , and say you guys are idiots .
im getting a mental picture of that now .
if dave met my other friends he would just explode , especially the ones noted in my book , he would say youre all fools after about 5 seconds .
nah , i am joking he would have slightly more patience .
however , it would be a bad experience for him , and for them .
another one is when he drove to a club in 3 degree weather .
i laughed until i cried at this one .
he told me he was just bored and wanted to go out .
i told him he was an imbecile , and he wouldnt see me out in that weather for almost anything .
he agreed , but still would do it again im sure .
he has done plenty of other stuff too like the time he became homeless .
he told me he had 2 kids and i was like dude you need to get straight for them .
his response was im a homeless bastard what should i do .
seriously , he was homeless for a long time and eventually moved around new york , becoming a paperboy .
for a while , he was staying with his dad and sleeping for 12 hours a day , working out part time , and driving around looking to pick up girls .
guys this is what happens to people who like the sauce too much .
they end up homeless , have reckless sex which sounds fun until you see the consequences probably get disease , hopefully bret didnt , make drunk calls , which bret has done , lose jobs which were bad to start with , talk shit on their drunk calls , and drive into ditches shouting deer !
nah i know he was not drunk when he did that .
one other funny thing he did was sneak out of his girlfriends house when he was homeless .
he was trying to leave to meet up with me to hang out that night .
i was thinking bret you idiot dont get killed over a girl !
i think his girlfriends father was blocking his escape , but didnt know he was there .
so his buddy sketch shows up there too at some point , and they come to church with me that night .
note sketch should have his own chapter .
why ?
hes voluntarily homeless and he drags his friends into that life it seems too .
hell the fact that he wants to live in the streets and sell newspapers shows somethings wrong upstairs .
i mean why would anyone with his intelligence do that ?
bret is currently trying to start a band in new york with me as the lead singer , if this book sells a million copies i will go there first and make the band with him .
so if he wants that band i am sure he will advertise , he will probably go street to street telling people to buy my book , which would be hilarious in itself .
in fact , ill bet he is trying to at this moment get people in new york to buy copies of this unfinished book .
next would be ed carniero , here is a man who has done everything .
he claimed to have no shame , so i am putting him to the test here .
hes not a bad guy .
im not doing this to trash him either .
hes just very entertaining .
one really stupid thing hes done is graduate high school at twenty years of age .
i think he had 2 junior years and 2 senior years .
he was in fact on drugs to have done that .
in his case , he almost dropped out anyways because his g.p.a .
had turned to 1.6 in his 2nd senior year .
miraculously , he made just enough to get by .
i didnt make fun though because even though his actions were stupid i knew he was struggling .
however , all the while even in his last senior year he went out and got cocaine .
once , he and his best friend went to go get an eight ball of coke .
come to think of it i should make fun of this guy , he is such a fool , i personally understand the depths of eds intellectual capabilities , which is why hes in a book of buffoons .
he is an idiot for not realizing his intellectual capabilities , he opted to be like the rest of the sheep we call our society .
ed should get the moron trophy for that .
or maybe he should run in the special olympics .
hes a fake intellectual , he claims to be a liberal but he really is not .
he once tried to get me kicked out of a band we were once in by obeying the leaders commands to go against me , without even hearing me out .
hes conservative when it suits him .
a liberal would have been fair and heard me out at least instead of following orders , like a sheep .
in fact , thats what i will refer to him as its his new nickname .
ed if youre reading this youre a sheep got a problem with that ?
in any case , he lost that one and even though he was a total jackass i saved him from being kicked out numerous times , once when he broke a microphone and stormed out of practice , once when the band nearly disbanded without me , and once when he was going to lose the lead position in singing .
again im only talking trash about him and the others who turned their backs on me .
i m just stating what happened .
so yes this book has everything drama , fighting , idiocy passion between men and women , men and men , and men and animals .
it is also rumored that ed and jackel were lovers , i didnt think it was true , but who knows i mean ed used to have sex with other men and on jackels dead journal it says he had a boyfriend in the past .
not that theres anything wrong with that , but i think they both could do better than each other .
then there was jackal , his best friend .
what a dope , he vows to save ed from his drugs , then gets caught up in them .
he is perhaps the stupidest man alive , he claims to be an intellectual and then doesnt go to college after high school .
the stupid part is jackal really is smart and he passed on law school which he could have actually completed .
i have no doubt he could have done it , except for the fact that if he passed on it could he have done it ?
this is probably a philosophical question that can not be best answered in a book about fools .
so if he sees eds name in here he should not laugh , because he is literally next , and they did the same damn thing it seems .
oh well sheep do tend to flock together .
i say who cares theyre idiots .
sheep are stupid .
next , john sherbondy is on the stupid list .
hes cool , i am just putting him in to be funny .
he has done some crazy stuff in his time .
he once rode around town carrying an ax while biking .
he was making a bmx track he claimed .
he also said he wanted to chop up graves .
he nearly clipped some old woman with the ax , he was also carrying a shovel , but he never made the track .
i rode with him carrying a shovel , but i didnt do any damage .
he also used to go around stealing golf balls on golf courses .
then there was the time someone myself pissed in a bottle of soda and he got someone to drink it .
oh the humanity , the poor fool who drank it turned out to be some dude nicknamed batman .
he made quite the face and that was before realizing exactly what he drank .
john then tried to pull the same dumb joke on me but it failed .
he did however get tony to do it supposedly .
id believe it as tony is by not just my account , the lowest form of life there is .
in my next book i am going to list all the girls he cheated on , and who he cheated with .
i am also going to release a list of who he talked badly about among his guy friends .
no mercy for the stupid will be shown .
if any of the people want a list before my next book i will offer either one for 5 bucks each or 8 bucks for both .
if tony doesnt like it , tough thats what you get for messing with smart people .
john just might get his own book as tony might as well , who knows if this book works out and the movie does too i might write books about both of them which promise to be more interesting than this one .
anyways back to john .
he and i used to get into trouble all the time .
he would take me to a golf course sometimes and we would take balls .
well one time he and i went and he told me to grab a ball , but he grabbed it and ran .
it turned out it belonged to a cop who lost a 100 dollar bet .
that would be the least stupid thing john had dragged me into .
then there was the time we tried to go to miami to find drug money .
he tried to hijack his grandfathers car later it turned out he gave john the keys the whole time , john just forgot .
so we cruise off for miami and he hits a fire hydrant on the sidewalk because he didnt know how to drive .
he shouts buffoons !
on impact and water gushes from the hydrant .
i say give me the wheel and he hands me the wheel .
it broke off .
so i reattach it put on plush by stone temple pilots , and cruise off to miami .
he finds the drug lab too and he says we are rich .
of course i say lets not and say we did .
he rushes into the lab and gets caught .
he says oh s and somehow breaks loose , he managed to grab some money a whole suitcase full of it .
i let him drive and i count it in the back seat of the car .
i hand it to him and say theres at least 3 million in here .
of course , he opens it up to check it and the cash blows out the driver side window .
i was like fuck a duck , dude why did you open the window and spill all our money ?
the cops rolled by and we took off like a bat out of hell , because i knew they would suspect something .
i pretended to be very sick and fortunately had been drinking a lot to celebrate our newfound wealth .
so the cops ask why john was speeding so fast and he said after i told him to tell them i was sick and had to go to the hospital .
that i was ill and was going to the hospital .
they escort us there and i end up leaving after the cops leave .
meanwhile johnny had gotten high as a kite and wanted to fly down the road .
i sober up and try to go home as fast as possible , however hes wilding out , and he causes me to hit a mailbox .
so i shout beep !
when the fucker makes me have an accident .
we get home and his grandfather says !
what the ! ! ! ! ! ! !
happened to my car .
i say well he got high and started bugging out while i was driving , and made me hit a mailbox , to which i shouted beep !
in what turned out to be the most bizarre thing to happen , the guy just laughs because i shouted beep !
after having an accident .
of course , he makes johnny get his old job back at publix and work for the money to fix the damage .
he doesnt get mad at him for getting high .
i soon figure out why , the old man was the one johnny was stealing it from .
in fact , i figure it out because he was singing youre beautiful by james blunt to no one in particular while obviously high .
michael barrett was someone i used to be friends with , but thought was too dumb to keep around .
he once got so high that he saw a budweiser frog and it asked him to get high with him .
thats when you put the drugs down people .
he refused to cut it out and was eventually caught with it at school .
at least that is the story he told me .
he was a really dumb kid , he failed sixth grade two or three times .
in other cases he just did stupid things , like try to act perverted claiming he had sex with his dog and other stuff that most people wouldnt do or admit to doing .
he might be the reason blink 182 made the song i want to fuck a dog in the ass .
then there was jason .
he was one of tonys friends who i knew and considered him to be a great guy .
but he had his moments .
for example , he ran up over a thousand dollars in phone bills at a week stay in a hotel .
he had a cell phone , so he had no excuse .
it wasnt a drunk call either .
he was calling his girlfriend which was nice , but you dont do that with a hotel phone .
this was sometime in 2004 , i think and i hadnt seen tony to hang out with since before then , jason either .
oh well jason got them to drop some of the charges luckily .
however , hes doing some other stupid things back in coral springs .
he is going to the clubs trying to watch naked girls .
instead he should be trying to pick them up .
he drops like a thousand bucks on them , he should drop half on his clothes , cologne , etc so he can get dates with them .
at least that is what i would do if i had that much to spend freely .
nah , just kidding 500 bucks is too much to spend on clothes at one time for me .
then there was brian again , one day he tells me he wants to be homeless like another friend of ours , named sketch .
he woke up one day and decided that having a house was too much trouble and having a job was even worse .
so i try to reason with him , but it doesnt work .
he has his heart set on being a bum like his hero sketch at that point .
i guess sketch straightened this fool out about what being homeless is like .
he eventually decided being homeless sucks , for anyone else contemplating being like him , it does dont do it and decided to create ideozine , a web design company that would make him a rich man if he knew how to market it right .
he then changed his mind and got pissed at me for not wanting him to give up his dream .
i say fine who needs to put up with his foolery .
too bad i used to like being his friend , but he decided to end that .
sketch by the way is a fool too .
hes a darn fine person , but stupid because he is voluntarily homeless .
i do not understand why anyone would want this on themselves , let alone why this desire is starting to be a trend , or so it seems .
it tends to come from people who do a lot of drugs particularly weed .
apparently these people think they are intellectuals and their great ideas come from that .
note the sarcasm there .
sketch actually passed his ged with a good score while high and rolling on ecstasy or something else i dont remember .
he said when he is 21 he wants to turn his life around completely .
i told him sketch dont you think that this might be something youre stuck in permanently , if you dont change it now .
he hadnt considered that possibility of course , but he was cool about it .
i say he needs to go home , but as of yesterday i heard that he isnt going back .
i know a guy who failed his test , but he did it because he threw out a section that didnt make sense .
actually , this fool would be bret pries insert trumpet sound here .
he went off on some sort of rant about how he hated some politician , probably george w. bush .
bush will get his part in this book believe me .
as for bret he already made enough appearances in here , its kind of getting weird .
i should give him his own book too .
finally , the tale would be left untold if i left out the greatest fool of all , frederick williams .
he got himself into the classic situation that tony gets himself into .
it should be noted that i told fred jokingly i was putting him in the book and he told me in all seriousness that i could .
he is currently involved with 2 women , a thing i would never do because i know what happens to men who do that , they get in big trouble with both .
the women in question are named hally and taryn .
now the stupid thing is not just that he is with 2 women , but one is the old love of his life , and the other is the new love of his life .
he finally after around four or more years of trying got hally to go out with him again , then all of a sudden he decides he does not want her anymore .
he was with her or trying to be with her on and off since he was sixteen , he is now twenty four .
he decides it was all about the thrill of the chase , which is fine and dandy in many cases , but not when youve suffered so much and the stakes are so high .
fred actually asked how stupid he is for that , to which i said no stupider than the average person .
perhaps this is giving him too much credit .
of course fred will probably lose hally for good and i warned him of that possibility .
i suggested that he might decide to change his mind down the road 3 years from now .
well i think hes made a bad choice but i hope i am wrong .
by the way he and i have talked about similar scenarios but i never thought something that tony did on a regular basis would come out of fred , he knows better i thought .
as it turned out even in his fantasies the girls found him and murdered him , and they got really mad at me for covering for the guy as he skipped town , and the state and even faked his death .
he for now , wants to be with taryn , well to that i say good luck man youll need it .
you should take your secret with you to your grave , but like a friend of mine once said , your grave is going to be mighty full .
chapter 6 the guy who covered himself in honey and got stung 200 times now this chapter is about a man who was trying to have sex with a girl and was also an exhibitionist .
he decided it would be fun to have his girlfriend lick honey off his genitals .
this is one i actually saw on the way back to the bus from school .
apparently he wanted everyone to see this , and he got what he wanted .
i missed the bus going home , but it was so worth it that i didnt care at all .
i shouted free porn and a lot of people rushed up asking where .
i pointed at the guy who was getting head , while he was high .
some students however who didnt like what they saw accidentally knocked over a beehive and broke the window to his dorm room .
of course moths go to flame like bees do to honey .
he was stung everywhere but he got stung where it counts on a man .
the screams were heard for miles around .
i felt sorry for the guy when i saw him and when i heard him .
he ran out of the dorm room and was screaming .
then he fell over and landed in the road , this is after he hit a stop sign .
he swelled up and almost floated away .ha ha no seriously he had a lot of stings and he nearly died .
the medics came around and again said hey joe this is the 5th time this week this happened .
they took the guy away and i laughed and said man what a goof .
i then did the tushy dance with his girlfriend .
no , that is not a metaphor for sex .
i asked her if she wanted to do the tushy dance .
so we do the tushy dance which is just dancing and bumping butts at random .
i was celebrating another hallmark of human stupidity .
after a minute , the guy yells will everyone stop doing the tushy dance and show some respect for the wounded .
i ignored him and kept doing the tushy dance and bouncing off the walls .
it was hilarious , everyone was hysterical with laughter .
he came back and was fine just a little smarter and it smarted him im sure .
i asked if he had learned his lesson .
he claimed he had so i said i accomplished what i set out to do .
even though i had nothing to do with his accident .i still thought it would be funny to say that .
so a week goes by and i see the guy again asking him how hes doing since the incident .
he says hes doing fine for someone who nearly died of bee stings .
it turns out he decided to graduate to other forms of stupidity .
he went around campus starting food fights , which was hilarious .
he threw a pizza pie in a professors face once , which didnt get him in trouble , the professor threw it back at him , along with a bowl filled with pudding .
they both hit the fool , who claimed it was tasty .
right , pudding covered pizza is the first thing i want to be tasting .
in any case , this caused the student to throw more at the professor , who ducked and the guy hit his colleague , who dumped a glass of milk down the other professors pants .
the bee guy just laughed until a banana hit him in the face .
it was great .
so then me and dave walk into the cafeteria , and by this time all hell has broken loose .
everyone is throwing food , professors , students , workers , and management .
i go in there , grab a tray full of food , and chuck it into the crowd .
of course , i duck for cover right after i do that .
dave does too , after throwing a biscuit at someone .
dave then grabs a tray makes a goofy grin , laughs coming up , and gets nailed by a slice of cake full on in the face .
of course , this is too funny and i am on the floor at this point .
dave tells me to shut up and smashes some cake in my face for making fun of him .
so i do the same thing he did trying to fight back in the food battle and get nailed by a butterscotch pudding all over my pants .
i get pissed , grab a bowl of pasta and fling pasta complete with sauce in their face .
this is too much for them and they break down crying .
seeing this everyone turns on them , soon its everyone against one crybaby , which is ironic since its the same guy who started everything .
at this point , i dont really care as i have left the food fight as did dave .
we leave the idiots to themselves and laugh at them on the way out .
the next few days we look for the idiot who started the food fight , but later we find that he got expelled for burning the professor with the pizza , and was actually being prosecuted for his actions .
nah just kidding , but he did get expelled and had to go to bcc , it was sad .
i asked him to keep in touch with me for research purposes and he did .
he asked what kind of research i was doing , i told him it wasnt academic , it was purely for fun and profit , which it is .
he says sounds good to me , and left .
of course i then follow up calling him to see if he has seen or done anything stupid over at bcc .
he says he tried to play april fools jokes , but they were lame .
he ran around the student apartments yelling fire , fire !
at midnight , then splashed some poor guy in the face with what he thought was water .
it turned out that it was in fact filled with beer .
it might still put out the fire , but unless it was a real fire , that is a party foul , wasting good alcohol .
so he goes on about that , that it was a fraternity pledging thing , him playing a good april fools prank .
it barely worked for him .
he got into some frat group , but it turned out they were pranking him .
frat groups dont form on community colleges they told him , and spilled beer on him then they left .
i felt bad for him , but i remembered hes a fool .
eventually he goes back to fau and graduates with honors because his g.p.a .
at beer can college was so high that his foolery at fau didnt bring it below a 4.0 .
i nearly died of shock on hearing that .
he did too .
next , i swear its true a guy sat in pasta .
in my last month of school , i was wandering around , and decided to get something for lunch at the fau cafeteria .
i happen to see a guys friends pranking him by putting a plate of pasta spaghetti if you were wondering right in his seat .
he was talking to a girl when they do this .
its the perfect time to prank him .
he sits down , bam !
pasta sauce and some noodles are all over his pants .
it was heavy on the sauce too .
he got up , he was mad as hell , and started cussing at his friends for about 5 minutes before storming out of the building .
so naturally he doesnt see it and i crack up laughing when he makes the most priceless face a person could make .
i point , laugh and call the guy a buffoon for falling for that .
then i call up dave and tell him what i just saw .
he was the prankster among his friends , so they decided to get him back .
they got him good .
me and dave decided he deserved the you got pranked award , which consisted of me and dave sitting around and laughing at him , oh and putting him in the book .
so anyways , i finish telling dave what a maroon the guy is and i give him the play by play .
the guy walks in , talks to a girl , his friends sneak pasta into his seat and wham hes got it all over his pants .
the next day , somehow he manages to spill it on the front side .
i see him again , and this time im trying not to laugh at him , but i cant help it .
apparently for a prank king hes rather clumsy .
i asked him how he managed this , and he said well i just slipped on a banana peel and it landed on my pants , dont tell anyone he says .
i tell him i wont while crossing my fingers .
i put it on the school p.a .
system .
they ask who is this goof , and i say jack frasier who , by the way , is single ladies .
if you like guys who cant keep food off their clothes hes for you .
two days later i decide to prank him .
i call his dorm room saying he just won the lottery .
well this fucker decides to drop out of school and smoke dope all day .
he says hes going to do drugs .
and he does .
eventually he realizes his mistake and flips out .
this is funny because i tried to tell him after that he had been pranked .
come on , i had called as the mayor of alabama .
i mean i was still in florida when i did this .
he did not realize something was wrong then .
and why would the mayor of alabama call a floridian about the lottery , and which city in alabama would they call from ?
he didnt catch that governors run states not mayors .
he finally went back to school and is part of the next section , which is why he is a true buffoon .
he skipped out on his finals due to the prank i played .
i felt bad , but come on he should have checked this out before dropping out of college .
apparently he decided he hates college and wants to flunk it .
i dont blame him , college was waste of time .
eventually he forgets about all of this , but i decide to prank him and he sits in pasta again , much to the amusement of his friends who me and dave joined up with .
then there was a guy who went on a date auction and no one bid on him .
he made napoleon dynamite look like the prom king .
in fact some guy went on the same stage pretending to be napoleon dynamite and they almost did crown him prom king , because of the write in votes .
seriously , he went in with torn pants that sagged so much his butt crack showed , he was bald , scrawny looking , and really short .
he flunked out of college because of his drinking and partying .
actually my mistake , one woman did bid on him , and she bid a lot of money too , she bid ten thousand on him .
i shouted fucking fools when she did that .
she was a fine looking chick too .
i always wanted to join one of those auctions , but i always thought i would be the fool no one would bid on , oh well .
students who skip on 30 of their grade .
i noticed that in my history of civilization class , many students decided not to take their final exams .
i couldnt believe it as this is 30 of their final grade in the class .
so naturally they failed or came very close .
i took mine and got an a on the exam and a b in the course .
i figured they all got an f for the course , since if someone had 100 it was then a 70 .
i could understand if they were close and they would fail anyways , but some were normally good students .
i then became tempted to rubber stamp them with the word idiot or moron .
some went from barely holding a b to flunking .
i called dave to tell him about this and he says score , your ability to find human idiocy never ceases to amaze me joe .
we then drove to a club to celebrate as my book would be a huge success he said .
so we were at the club and we see some of these idiots , and we sing somebody told me at the guys while pointing on beat with the song .
the next day i found out that nearly half the class had failed because of the final exam .
i couldnt believe it and told dave how severe it was .
he said theyre a bunch of boobs what do you expect ?
i agreed yeah theyre boobs so forget them .
the next day , i find out from dave that in his classes that many more people had done the exact same thing .
i was like oh is that all .
damn people are such idiots .
especially !
college students i said .
so then i find out that one of my professors thought i had done it .
i tell him no i didnt skip these buffoons might have but i didnt .
so then one of the skippers gets his foot stuck in a garbage can and knocks all the papers over .the professor then kicks him out of the classroom giving him an f. the professor calls the guy a fool , along with everyone else who skipped .
i laugh at him .
of course , the professor realizes that i didnt skip and i got an a .
of course , this isnt the end of the chapter , many of the idiots tried to hack into the school computer to change their grades .
i watched this and captured their idiocy on tape and showed the professors , hey why should i work hard and get an a while these guys cheat ?
so these imbeciles are thrown out of the university for cheating .
dave and i are cheered as heroes , not for getting them thrown out , but for exposing idiocy .
this ends up proving stupidity is in fact a crime .
or is it crimes involve the stupid ?
maybe its both , but anyways i get to be the school hero because these idiots are expelled .
we get quoted in the newspaper even , saying these people are idiots .
dave says come on these guys are idiots .
i say these guys are such fools .
they try to retaliate against us , but we beat them down with the help of quite a number of students who didnt like these guys anyways .
then we leave until the next bout of idiocy showed up .
me and dave are the stupid police , if you are acting like an idiot you will be caught and sentenced to being made fun of by us and anyone else who wants to laugh at you .
trust me , the stupid police are looking for you too so dont think you can escape the long arm of the law .
haha well they all proved as i have said before , stupidity is in fact , a crime .
if youre found guilty , you will be sentenced to be a moron for 5 years hard time .
if you plead guilty and throw yourself at the mercy of judge joe or judge dave , you might get off easy .
maybe youll get 2 years probation as an idiot .
anyways , the next day the bunch of fools tried to retake the exams , but the professors wouldnt let them .
of course , they are none too happy about this and decide to try to appeal , but there is no appealing your own stupid actions .
i saw them try , but get denied like those guys get denied by the ladies haha .
mostly these fools get denied by the girls because theyre too stupid to get dates .
to end this part of the chapter , i go off to them after they get denied and state , youre all fools !
i go off on a rant about how stupid they are in simplest terms too , so they can see how dumb they are .
of course , theyre college students so they dont get it .
i just throw my hands up in disgust and shout idiots !
until the next time , that is all for them .
chapter 7 ?
next some old woman drops her dentures in the dookie and mugs it up !
thats right an elderly woman kisses some guy with fake crap stained teeth .
the morons are the woman and also anyone she catches with her dentures .
i actually saw this one in person , it was hilarious .
me and dave were on the train and some woman who was 85 if she was a day , drops her teeth and gums in the flusher .
she comes out and announces her teeth and gums are stained .
without so much as a whiskey swig , she pulls them out and puts them back in her mouth .
oh the humanity !
it was gross , but what was worse is i swear she started kissing people .
i almost got it but thank god for my ability to duck and cover .
also , dave warned me she was headed straight for me .
i pulled some poor fool in my way so he got a full lip lock .
ugh .
better him than me though .
arent human shields great ?
haha , unfortunately she did get dave , one half of the self proclaimed idiot police .
someone used him as a human shield .
poor dave had to drink vodka till he puked to get the taste out .
in sympathy , i took a bottle of jack daniels bourbon and chugged until i also puked .
i actually hate alcohol with a passion , but for a friend i would drink .
so shes going around acting like a fool , laughing about how many guys she kissed .
all i see are people getting the hell out of her way .
it was hilarious .
she sneak kissed about 20 men .
of course , i laughed at most of the fools who got it , but felt sorry for dave .
so then he gets over it and laughs too as he watches her wander the train kissing people .
she kissed a few women by mistake , which even she thought was gross .
of course , everyone said eww gross that old woman just kissed me and her breath smells like it is covered in shit .
i gently inform them that her dentures were covered in the stuff .
so then the fools who got kissed decided to try to stop her from claiming any more victims .
it doesnt work as she is fast for an 80 something year old person .
eventually she stops when she realizes she missed her stop due to her insane desire to mug it up after the dentures were soiled .
of course she flips out .
then me and dave get off at boca station , and she follows us saying i have my eye on you dave .
apparently she liked kissing him the most .
she gets back on and tries to kiss the conductor of the train .
he is then tempted to throw her onto the tracks like the rest of us were .
instead he bursts into laughter , pulling some other poor soul in the path of those foul choppers .
the guy almost dies of disgust and promptly looks around for some beer to clean his mouth with .
ive got the only one left , and i wander into school high as a fucking kite , oh wait i mean drunk as a skunk .
i do that more often the more i hang with dave , bad influence i guess .
it is his fault for getting kissed , and my feeling sorry for the guy haha .
again , i get away scot free for being wasted in fau classes .
i then go off to raise hell on my way home .
by then i sober up some and run into dave who wants to laugh about what happened .
of course , he caught it all except for his passionate embrace with the stain lady on tape for the whole world to see .
of course we planned to broadcast it on fau resources since it would be amusing .
we later decided that making money off of this would be better and we will sell copies of this after the book .
what do you think , is fools a good name ?
i might edit it to get daves lips pressed against the stain lady haha .
nah , i couldnt do that to him , that would be embarrassing .
i go back and we see the lady waiting for the train , of course , dave runs like hell , i dont blame him .
i would run too , wait actually i did , i like having my breath clean , haha .
we run to a dead end , and in desperation i sacrifice dave to save myself from the horror .
well she just busts out laughing and we run past her .
she tries to corner dave and for a second i think man shes going to get him again , but then i go back and say if you want him youre going have to go through me first .
of course , she took the challenge but then she got very sick feeling .
i , of course , asked if she was ok. dave just ran away .
i called the ambulance from my cell phone , feeling sorry for her .
it turned out she became ill from her dentures being crud infested .
so she goes to the hospital and they give her drugs to fight her infection .
of course i go to visit her when she can have visitors .
she waves at dave saying hello handsome winking and waving .
i make fun of him doing the same thing .
he throws up after she does that .
the next day.. drum roll please she was at it again .
dave and i ran like hell on seeing her .
i shouted im too young and handsome to get kissed by her , help !
of course the tri rail officers saw her and said oh no not again , thats the fifth time this month .
gee whiz these oldsters think that they are pop stars or something .
they think theyre mick jagger .
so i laugh and dave decides to get in a mischievous mood , we pull her pants down i say goodness dave did you have to do that ?
i did it too !
she stops trying to claim victims and fixes her pants .
unfortunately daves interference cause them to rip .
oh the humanity , of course she was wearing granny panties .
of course dave wishes he had shown some more wisdom for once .
so do a lot of the passengers .
dave almost wound up getting arrested for indecent exposure of an old woman , but i told the officers it was the lesser of two evils .
they let dave go and hand the old woman her pants .
so then she stops trying to claim victims and the on hand police take her to jail .
of course dave is really a hero this time for stopping her as i am , but we made fun of the fools she locked lips with first , then her for being arrested .
me and dave went out to celebrate our triumph over fools again .
we officially declare war against idiocy at the end of the book .
at this point we just went out to have a good time .
dave grabbed a waitresses butt at dennys , and she enjoyed it because he was a local hero .
he got carried away by women by the end of the night , as did i because dave told them i had a hand literally in the ending of that old womans idiocy .
of course , im wondering why the hell they care , but i dont complain as i get carried away .
people chant hip hip hooray three fucking cheers for the pantsing boys as they call us .
so we drink a few on the house , which for some reason dave tries to climb on top of the bar .
i ask him why hes doing that and he said the drinks are on the house , to which i say that means their free .
of course he is halfway up the ladder by the time i tell him so he looks kind of stupid but i have done the same thing the year before .
in any case , the celebration lasts until 4 am and then dave drives me back home with the girl i chose to go home with .
i was living in the dorms at fau at the time so i got a lot of girls back then .
i was a bit wasted but i didnt do anything i would regret the next day .
i did have drunken sex with a girl who looked like she could stop traffic with her teeth , haha no she was cute .
dave left with two of them , he was howling the whole way home .
he also made me wait till i was out of his car before starting .
he said dont do that in my car .
while i can see it , you can have the keys when i am not seeing it he said .
in any case , the next day dave and i see her trying to kiss people again , i ask her why from a distance she keeps this foolery up .
no answer comes at first , so she tries to kiss me again and i try to pull dave up as a shield , he isnt paying attention and gets a good one from her .
he flails about , thinking oh im going to puke .
i hand him the booze and he throws it at me , which i dont blame him for .
i thought it would be a funny prank , but he is ready to kill me when she does it again .
he throws up and i pour booze on him to wake him up when he passes out .
i was in a pranking mood that day .
i apologize to him and then he pantses me so the lady can get me or i can go pants less i choose not to pull them up and the woman ends up mugging it up with a tri rail guard .
finally , i do the only humane thing i can and that is take her choppers and fling them far away from the train while its moving .
unfortunately , she happened to want to go along with them .
i waved them over the top edge note there is a 16 foot drop from the top of the train and i held them over the edge where she was flailing for them .
of course i chuck the choppers after she over reaches and shouts teeth !
of course she lands wrong and her teeth end up biting her in the butt .
she also ends up breaking several bones , including her funny bone .
the paramedics have to come pick her up and then i tell them the story about her .
they pick up her and bring her to a boca raton hospital .
of course they crack up when they see how many people she kissed .
she has not since then made a pass at a single man since shouting teeth !
next a professor drops his pants in a lecture by mistake .
unfortunately for dave , he saw it firsthand .
apparently the guy forgot his belt that day .
the guy slipped while explaining some math formula and when he got up his pants came crashing down .
oh the humanity .
poor dave caught a glimpse of the guys boxers by accident .
of course he had to dismiss the class after an incident like that .
girls were screaming , guys were like oh man this guy is an idiot .
so then dave decides to take a picture of the fool , who will be shown in the next book , more fools .
i laugh at the guy even though hes not there when i hear of it .
the guy was disciplined about the incident , but not fired since he had tenure , in fact he was a professor there for forty years and he did this .
the guy had snow on the roof and was doing pranks like this .
it later was determined he was in fact doing a prank .
he did it on purpose .
he wanted to make his students pay attention and this is how he accomplished it .
he got what he wanted all right .
no one even looked away for fear of this guy dropping his drawers again .
some people almost wound up suing the university over the incident , but thankfully they didnt .
i would hate to have seen my school closed down over this idiot .
people started pranking him over it though .
one guy put a whoopee cushion in his seat .
one put fake dog poop on the stage he walked around on .
he slipped on it and did it again , although this one was an accident .
the class then started throwing rotten fruit and vegetable at the guy who started the pranks .
in fact , he was lucky to get out of there before the class beat the holy hell out of him .
dave actually called for the group to string him up i was appalled to hear this .
dave was of course , only joking , he was laughing his butt off when he said that , but the students beat the crap out of the guy and tied him to a pole for the birds to peck at .
eventually , someone came to help him , but by then he missed the bus home and the professor came by again and flashed him haha just kidding .
seriously he was there a long time .
it wasnt a pretty sight .
the students stripped him and then threw rotten fruit at him like he was a bad actor .
that really sucked for him since he was a theatre major .
it was in the fau news , and the boca news , that a theatre major had been rotten fruited .
of course , his performances went bad and his professors flunked him .
he became the laughing stock of the school .
it was a sad day for him .
it was a good day for me and dave though , and we help the poor guy get reinstated and help his professors understand it wasnt his fault and they pass him , with as .
sometimes we do good deeds for the poor fools who are unlucky enough to be discovered by our star search haha .
the next day rolls around and the guy is on the flag pole with his underwear on his head .
we investigate by asking why he was like this .
he says he went to the classroom and pulled down his pants in front of 200 or more students .
i asked why in the h e double hockey sticks he would do this ?
literally in those words he says he was dared to do it .
i couldnt believe the guy had the stones to go that far .
i try to help him down , but dave knew how to work the pole better than i did wink wink .
his underwear were on the flagpole last year so thats why .
so he says he was also high when he did it , because his favorite hero , appeared to him while high and said go for it man you are so cool if you do .
so being a huge fan of the towel , he does it , he exposes the sun and the full moon .
and it was a full moon , believe me , the guy looked like he weighed about 300 lbs , whatever was holding him to the flagpole was like superman .
me and dave had quite the time trying to help him down .
it was hard and he fell on me .
oh the horror .
it turned out this guy wanted to be a college professor like the fool who dropped his pants , so we pantsed him on stage at wackadoos .
we wanted him to realize that you shouldnt be a fool .
you know what happens to them .
after we did that , we saw another professor do the same thing , while lecturing in the wackadoos cafeteria .
oh wait , that wasnt a professor it was a student who had a name tag that said dr. allen wrench .
he decided it would be a good idea to imitate the previous moron .
these guys really need to start wearing belts .
of course , dave just happened to have a bullhorn on him , but i was arguing with him over who got to use it .
dave eventually made the announcements , sadly enough .
so he said this fool who pretends to be a doctor , actually dropped his pants and passed gas .
it turned out the guy was impersonating the real dr. allen wrench and committing fraud with his credit cards , cash , and other things .
he was doing his job , while the man was on vacation .
of course , the fake gets hauled away after his real id falls out of his pocket .
its jason figtree .
me and dave certify on bullhorn that this man is not who he claims to be , get him people .
he , of course , ends up being hauled away by fau police and the guy gets 10 years for pretending to be a doctor .
of course , dave and i celebrate by doing a cover band concert based on super mario brothers 1 2 and 3 .
he dave went as luigi , i went as mario , the suitcase guy went as toad , and some random chick from the crowd decided to be the princess peach .
of course , the random girl sings , toad plays bass , dave drums , and i play sing and guitar .
the concert was a huge success and i party my ass off until 2 am after all it was a school night so i was home early for exams .
what are you looking at , oh nothing .
when i went to fau , one day dave told me one of the bank atlantic tellers was a pedophile .
i couldnt believe it until i saw it .
one of the guys , who shall remain nameless until caught and found guilty in a courtroom , was staring at a young boys penis .
when i walked in i said hey what are you looking at , and he says oh nothing .
apparently he has been staring at adults for sometime as well , but this was just plain stupid .
so the kids dad finds out and tells him to cut it out .the guy doesnt cut it out .
he keeps looking at other guys .
in fact , he now looks at senior citizens in the showers .
dave also told me when he was younger hed look at what he calls wheeooo wheeooo our own slang for penis .
he looked at wheeoo wheeoo and he got caught too by his friend who asked what are you looking at , oh nothing he says .
of course , his friend doesnt believe him and gets mad at him .
this is before he realizes he shouldnt be doing this , so hes not gay .
dave and i laughed so much over wheeoo wheeoo .
maybe this bank guy should be in the pervert section too .
as it is the guy is still checking out old mens wheeoo wheeoo .
haha , well maybe an old man will hit him with his cane .
maybe an old guy will want more than for him to look , who knows .
then again , the next day , it turns out he is looking at the kid again .
his dad finds out and goes to kick the guys butt , until he meets the guy in the bathroom and the bank guy explains .
the father then listens for about 5 sec he sees the guy in a hef robe holding a bottle of wine and gets drunk they then get wasted together , and have drunken sex in the bathroom on the floor .
they wake up after passing out drunk and the bank guy gets fired .
of course , his wife finds out he had a gay affair and divorces him .
of course this leads to more drinking and more gay sex , which gets the mans son all confused about him having two guys raise him , as well as his mother .
way to go juan and jack juan is the bank guy jack is the boys father .
the bank guy eventually convinces the kids father that being gay is the right way for him .
he eventually just accepts it and goes to gay clubs to check out guys while his lover is at work .
then the guy starts copying the perverted bank guy and one day realizes hey wait what am i doing ?
i am following that sick perverts ways , and leaves .
he eventually reconciles with his wife and everything goes back to normal .
the bank guy gets arrested because the cops set up a decoy , and he is caught .
so they take him to court and he pleads not guilty , because he didnt want to admit such a thing in public .
i dont blame him .
i mean who wants to say i am a pervert i look at childs sex organs ?
well it didnt go as planned .
in fact as part of his sentence when he was convicted , he had to admit that he was in fact guilty as charged and he got 15 years in jail , proving he did it .
they would have given him counseling if he just said that he was guilty .
finally , the last pervert to go in my book is an old man named fred .
he is about 75 years old or young he says .
i last saw him trying to grab a gorgeous blonde womans boobs .
she didnt put up with that very well , but realized hes old so hes going to die soon anyways .
i heard he died with those boobs in one hand , and a beer in the other .
he was quite entertaining , but such a perverted old man .
i mean he had to be with over a thousand women in his heyday .
i heard some male college students bought him hookers once a month just to see the reaction from hookers when the old guy showed up .
the hookers were understandably grossed out , until they see hes got a lot of experience and money , and also viagra .
it is estimated he was with over 200 hookers , many of whom were prank calls by the college guys .
he lived his final days like a rock star .
i went to the old guys funeral and said well hes chasing women in that great whorehouse in the sky , or the other place .
the other place is more likely , but i like to think god has a sense of humor and novelty .
so the next day i find freds granddaughter on freds phone playing prank calls to nasa .
she and a friend were leading a double life , good students who lived for the church lifestyle by the sight of others .
however , when no one was watching , they listened to loud rock music , smoked all kinds of drugs , had sex with literally anyone with enough balls or desire to do so , and pranked certain places .
they called the boca news and went live on the air pretending to be the mayor of boca raton .
it was great .
they totally believed her and she told them that the hurricane wilma was coming straight for boca , which she didnt know was true .
people flipped out everywhere people in groups are the stupidest of all then it happens , and people think shes a psychic .
i , of course , know shes just screwing around like she was screwing around in bed with me and her girlfriends haha .
well my next book is also going to be fools part two and also about how to get a date with any girl you want despite being ugly , loser like , out of shape , stupid , lazy , and broke .
it is true you can , and itll be proven .
i mean i can do it so anyone can .
you cant without the book so buy it haha .
nah , i will prove anyone can do it .
in any case , she continues blasting loud rock music from her car drinking and driving which is serious dont do things like that or youll spill more than your beer , that by the way is a stupid slogan .
she also smokes and flies every morning it seemed .
so one day she smokes and flies to the point of winding up in the pool nearly drowning .
her roommates pull her out and have to decide to let her die or give her cpr they were girls of course , dave lucky bastard happens to be on the scene , and later on the air .
he gives her cpr and she comes to and insists he give her the heimlich too , while naked .
i just say thank god i wasnt there and im glad you had a good time dave , who was rolling on the floor laughing .
two guys cause a riot at kfc .
two guys walk into kfc and order some food .
they are surrounded by people as its a busy day there .
well apparently they are lovers , and they were making out there .
the people start puking on the floors , throwing food at the guys , spilling their drinks and saying oh my god .
in their surprise , they wind up wrecking the place .
all of the rioting people were given the idiot stamp by dave .
i just sat back and laughed , until i realized this was caused by prejudice which was alive in 2005 and still is today unfortunately .
i then watched the riot and felt bad for the two men who were then run out of the restaurant .
people started throwing chicken and biscuits at them , some mashed potatoes too .
they tried to lock them in the stocks , but the town didnt have them anymore .
they eventually became hooligans at fau much in the way me and dave had become hooligans at fau .
haha just kidding me and dave were hooligans in a much different way than these guys .
they tried making this book , but instead became part of this book .
a few weeks later these guys started harassing dave !
they wanted him to become .
gay !
well obviously dave wasnt having any of this .
they asked him to be part of a 3 way .
i laughed because he was just so embarrassed .
the worst is dave claimed these dudes tried to follow him home .
it was awful .
he says its not safe to eat anywhere so im gon na get my food and go to h o m e and spelled it out for the illiterate .
he says for those of you who cant read thats home .
many of the college students tried , but could not follow his logic .
the students tried again and again .
finally , he said damn it you guys , how did you get into college ?
he eventually shouted you guys are all fools !
the gay guys followed him there too .
dave claims he also dropped his key someplace .
uh oh this is bad .
we used to pretend to be news people , and make fun of the hooligans for bothering dave , and being a nuisance to other people .
the news stories always ended badly for those guys .
they deserved it since they were morons .
i didnt care that they were gay and neither did dave .
i mean no one here has hate for the gay , just the stupid .
actually i dont hate the stupid they are just annoying in a few cases .
mostly theyre funny .
dave was usually just a guy off the street telling what he saw .
sometimes he was the reporter , but this was rare .
eventually , the two guys realized dave is not gay in the least , dave actually had about 20 different girlfriends in his last year at fau .
sure dave , we believe you haha .
seriously , the two guys eventually broke up too , one started dating lots of girls , and married a gorgeous one .
the other got his pants caught in a lawn mower and died , haha just kidding .
he became a bartender in downtown boca and frequented kfc .
he put a sign up that said when not to go to kfc .
good for them .
i say they both ended up happy , and leaving my friend alone .
i should have called this chapter when not to go to kfc .
seriously i saw these two at it again prior to their happy ending .
the one who became a playboy was called robert .
the other was called ernest .
well these two had one last adventure .
they had sex in the kfc food .
oh what a mess they made .
fried chicken be damned , there was pieces of it all over the place .
another riot occurred , but this was a full on war against the two .
mashed potatoes were everywhere and corn was flung at them .
the mayor was up in arms , and they were out of control .
of course , the health department had to close the place down and they were fired .
robert and ernest worked at kfc it turned out , and they hated it , so they decided to make it more interesting .
of course , without jobs they soon lost their apartment and ended up as hobos .
bert became a drunk for a while and ernie started doing weed .
eventually , the two realized they were fools .
so then they calm down and become normal guys , sort of .
i forgot to mention that they find daves key and follow him around .
he noticed and thought good god theyre stalking me again .
so they go to his h o m e and enter it .
he says damn it a guy is not safe from these homos even at h o m e. again for the illiterate thats home , haha .
most of the college students didnt get that , so he spelled it again and pronounced it at the interview .
of course , when they broke in he said damn it guys , what do you idiots want .
he almost kicked their asses at that point .
i didnt blame him , he says i dont care that youre gay fine be gay .
dont break in and enter other peoples houses , of course he is shouting this , but who wouldnt .
i mean i would be pissed if 2 guys broke into my home , even if it was just to hang out , but these guys wanted sex from a guy who they knew was a lady lover .
dave orders them out and threatens to do serious damage to their faces if they dont leave and never come back .
i thought damn dave is pissed .
but again these two idiots kept bugging him .
so they leave and go bother me .
i say dont even try i have a girlfriend .
i am going to get married to her .
i do not cheat with men or women , so do not waste your breath .
i then leave daves place laughing because theyre such idiots .
i didnt have a girlfriend at the time , but they didnt know that .
the next day i find out that they were bugging dave at school .
of course , i have had enough of their tomfoolery .
i tell them that they need to stop bothering people .
they arent too happy , and dave warns me to get away from those guys or youll end up like being an idiot .
so i tell them to go to college so they can stop being idiots .
dave flips out and says damn it all the last chapter is on that .
unfortunately , they end up being college students at fau and they graduate with degrees in being fools , haha just kidding .
bert becomes an engineering major and gets a great construction job .
ernest decides to be a personal trainer and flunks out of college at first , but he eventually is given a second chance .
bert supports him , so he can get his grades up to a 2.0 and pass .
in any case , theyre so focused on their own buffoonery that they stop bugging dave .
so we celebrate by going to a strip club .
dave goes in and spends his fathers money on strippers .
i see a guy blow a hundred bucks on drinks .
dave blew five thousand on strippers he said .
i asked him where the hell he got five thousand just to screw around with .
he claimed his father gave it to him for a birthday gift .
this was amazing since he wasnt due a birthday for three more months .
he finally admits he robbed some drunk people who were having sex with each other on the stripping stage .
they were two extremely hammered men who were having a bad night trying to pick up chicks .
hey things were looking blue for me and dave , but we just kept trying .
dave left with a girl who was throwing money at the stage and stuffing it into the strippers panties .
she sang im in love with a stripper .
she had purple hair and liked daves apu impresssion .
her name was anya she was about 55 weight 115 .
i left with a girl who had gothic red hair .
her name was lisa , and she was loving the fact i was writing this book .
she came with anya and left with me and dave .
dave was like hahahahahaha joe , were gon na score when the girls were right next to us .
of course he almost loses us the girls , but i wind up saving our chances .
i tell them he meant in the book , we were going to score big .
of course , they fall for it and we score big outside the book too , if you get what i mean .
well we had a great night , unlike most of the fools who wasted money and blew a thousand bucks on playboy calls that night .
yeah before me dave and the girls left for the night , i saw some idiot throws two grand away on a phone call to playboy .
he was on the phone for the whole day he said .
well that takes the cake , dave decides to cut the call short and i mean literally cut the call .
he cuts the phone wire and runs like hell .
i take off too but almost forget the girl i leave with .
we all celebrate the night going well with some kfc .
dave of course lets me go through the drive through window , as we dont want any drama tonight .
of course , we end up with way too much food for us to eat and end up donating the excesses to some guy who was living in a trash can .
the guy claimed he lived in a trash can because his hero on sesame street , oscar the grouch did .
i couldnt believe this , and called for the men in white coats to pick this guy up .
of course he was pissed , but eventually he went back to normal because they determined a man is not crazy just because he lives in a garbage can .
however , he could be arrested for it , which he was .
he got a life sentence too because he was convicted of all sorts of things .
he had warrants for living in trash cans in all of the united states .
no seriously , he had a long rap sheet , it was longer than your leg .
of course me and dave hear about this and wonder what our country is coming to when a man is given a life sentence for living in a garbage can .
the next day we go back to kfc and the two guys who were bugging dave were eating there not causing a scene at all .
then i noticed both had girlfriends so they were double dating .
i was in shock and awe , and asked them if they were the same guys who were bothering dave earlier that week .
they said yes and we sat down and had a friendly meal together .
the next chapter is .. fools i just decided to lump an assorted bunch of stupidness into the next chapter .
my friend dave and i noticed that the man with the suitcase had in fact done it again , but by now we were used to his stupidity .
however , what we werent used to was the fact that he slipped and almost fell into the gutter he slipped on a banana peel someone thought it would be funny to watch someone slip on .
apparently they hoped to hit pay dirt by cracking some homeless bums head opened .
they almost got them .
it seems the suitcase man has had his run of bad luck .
he lost his job because of the suitcase incident getting to the office , his wife left him saying john youre such an idiot and he almost lost his house .
well i promptly called him a fool for letting people know of his stupidity .
then i went to hang out with bret and one of his friends .
on new years eve 2004 , his friend joe not me comes to hang out with him high as a kite .
thats bad but not the worst he did that night .
he then while im warning him not to do it , sticks his hand in the oven .
he doesnt yell , he just puts his hand under some water .
what a fool .
he then proceeds to try to play brets guitar , but cant and proceeds to try to ruin the guitar .
bret comes in and almost beats the hell out of joe .
i just stand back and laugh as this is a hilarious scene of idiocy .
he and joe go at it and i watch eating a pop tart and listening to music .
it was great to see such great friends getting along so well .
it was a great night , but eventually it had to end , well at least i had to go home , so i jog and then after a major distraction , i catch a bus .
next , is a scene i never thought i would see .
a guy was pissing in a public place .
he pissed on a cop by mistake .
it was a big mistake .
he tried to run , but could not because he tripped over the police cruiser which he had been keying while the cop was stuffing his face with donuts .
the cop caught him , and beat the hell out of him for resisting arrest .
nah , just kidding , he did sit on the guy which was worse than if he had actually beaten the hell out of him , this police officer was 300lbs or more .
by the way , this happened while i was on my way home from the new years party at brets place .
after seeing this i throw a pop tart at the offending person .
the cop cuts the cheese , i catch a whiff while i m on the bus back to my house and its not pretty .
i go home and recap the nights events and laugh my butt off .
i call dave the next day to tell him what happened , and he almost dies laughing .
another fool was a guy who got off on the wrong bus and ended up fifty miles away from where he needed to go .
some poor sap wanted to go to the coral square mall and ended up in boca raton .
he had to take the number 2 bus and took the 34 , which i was on going to school .
he just followed me without a word , assuming i was skipping school to go hang out with friends .
i was a little weirded out by this , but i said no big deal when he told me .
he ended up trying to take a cab there from boca , which cost a lot of money .
he didnt have it either , so then the driver tried to beat it out of him .
he ran away and then went in the mall .
it turned out he was trying to meet a fourteen year old girl there for sex .
of course , it was mall security that was setting up a sting for him , and of course they caught the idiot .
he tried to run and they caught him .
he got life .
i was there at his trial too , when the judge slammed the gavel , me and dave went to celebrate .
as it was , we raised hell in the courtroom .
the man tried to get me to represent him .
i refused saying he couldnt pay for a cab , let alone my legal services , which mind you i do not have a law degree i actually stamped the word idiot on his head while he was being led away .
i had asked the judge for permission for this one .
the judge handed me his own personal marker and stamp to do this .
bret will be occurring several times in this book , hes my favorite fool .
nah hes not a fool , but hes funny .
his current run of foolishness includes being a paperboy .
haha i think he should have been a farmer instead .
it pays better and probably would get him free food .
he would have stunk like a horse , however and would be getting higher than a kite if he took that job , which would end in him getting fired .
oh well hes seriously considering doing that for the moment .
i think he should , i mean hes already part horse haha just kidding bret .
seriously hed make a good farmer .
however , he would make a better pirate than anything else .
he loves booze , babes , and booty .
the money booty not the sexual type well actually , he likes both .
actually any guy would make a good pirate if they can stand the alcohol , personally i cant do it .
as of late , i told him to go college so he can learn guitar , which he loves more than anything .
i keep telling him to go to college , which eventually he might do , or he might end up being a buffoon , it depends on a lot of things .
then on my college graduation day , a friend of mine decides to show up at work about three and a half hours too late .
i was amazed , and said what the heck dude , and he says i was high .
brian was always getting high it seemed .
he was late a lot and eventually got written up for it .
in fact , he may have been fired for it , but that got changed i think .
so he asks if the boss is there , i tell him yes monica is there , he looks worried and i leave somewhat amused , but also worried .
i was hoping brian wouldnt get fired , and indeed he wasnt for the time being .
however , this genius has done this many times , and eventually i think it caught up to him .
hes kind of bad with money and almost never works on time , what happens then ?
well i am sure you can guess what happens next .
one time he told me he was five hundred dollars in the hole .
at least four hundred of that was on his cell phone .
when he tells me this i crack up , then he cracks up .
the night he told me that , he was wilding out and taking cash out of his account saying holy shit joe im overdrawn .
he seemed half in disbelief and also like he was giddy for it .
i was laughing my ass off because this guy was so bad with money .
it was horrible .
i mean i try to be his friend and look what i let him do to himself .
he had offered to buy something for me earlier too , which amused me .
it was halloween of last year when i was wandering the town with this poor fool .
nah just kidding brians not a fool , he just acts like one .
so we keep walking and he decides he wants to run so that he wont be late getting home .
so i say ok , since i used to be and still am , a great runner .
he stops after about thirty seconds .
i say dude what are you doing .
i also point out that we could have taken the bus from the mall a lot earlier , but he insists on walking even though he was going to be late most likely .
he said his uncle charges him for every minute after 11 he came in , which he was late by about 15 minutes that night , about the time where he gets locked out .
he stopped to talk to a pair of girls and then some people at panera bread , he was just wilding out the whole night .
then when we were about 20 minutes away he decides to stop and take a rest .
i told him to keep going , but he really needed the rest he said .
so i say ok dude dont get locked out though and rest with him .
he says something about the trees giving him soup , at this point i think hes a bit nuts , so later we pass by the library and sure enough he gets soup out of some bushes , apparently he stashed it there earlier .
so he offers me some , and we think it would be cool to hang out in this construction site by the charter school in coral springs , but we dont do it because i think some stuff would fall on us or something .
brian almost gets us jumped by some gang members earlier that night .
i say hey dude your going get us jumped .he says what i am telling him is nonsense , and then he sees the guys were as he says , rap people .
they were not just rap people , they were gang members it appeared .
he gets their attention and i think holy shit brian we are going to die , as there were about a dozen guys and even my strength wasnt enough to handle that many people , despite what my friends might tell me .
so i pull brian away saying you know those are gang members right ?
he has the look of like oh man what have i gotten myself into .
this was after we were going to the movies to check out girls .
of course he decided to go back to prove something , but it turns out i was right in not wanting to go back to the mall .
so later on that week he and i meet up with brittani sp ?
a gorgeous girl we met at the mall who i havent seen in forever .
shes awesome , but more on that some other time .
we leave to hang out with her and her boyfriend , when i hear that brian and i feel down .
however , we go off to get fucking high and of course i feel a bit buzzed .
brians acting like a total fool though .
i said dude youre so gone .
i was laughing , but not totally wasted .
i always get away with stuff like that .
i went home and no one noticed , although maybe that is because i act so stupid no one can tell something is really wrong with me .
it is great being me .
i could get baked at work and no one would know , or care because they cant tell .
i would never do it though because i dont like that stuff .
drugs would make me more of a mental mess .
i need my brain for when i am in college again .
im going back for criminology most likely , since it is short and also useful if i go into police work .
it would be funny , because i would probably not have to show up for school , which was a good thing for me .
in any case , brian went home toasted to the skin..
i felt pretty bad because i never wanted to smoke again .
chapter 14 more fools last night i remember more stupidity .
my friend bret was driving down the road one night and shouts deer !
he drives right into a ditch to avoid them .
the worst part is he made his car scrap metal in doing this .
he drives around in what used to be a good car .
of course i didnt have to call him a fool , he insults himself about his activities .
so now he rides around in a car that resembles something out of a scrap yard .
i hear he needs to have it fixed , but it isnt happening anytime soon .
i wonder why he decided to shout deer at the top of his lungs when he swerved .
unfortunately , he hit a deer the next time he drove and shouted deer again .
so he drags the deer to his place .
he was tying the deer to his car with twine , which left the deer behind , and someone else hit it and probably shouted deer as well .
another incident involving drinking happened here in mobile .
late at night , some guy was driving and swerved off the road , onto the sidewalk , and missing me by an inch .
this is when i walked home from work at subway .
he hit a tree , but that didnt stop him .
he backed up and drove right into a ditch too .
he got out of the car and kept babbling boobs because he was drunk .
the police were going to fish him out , but they said it would serve him right if we leave him there , but then they saw he was drunk and a danger to other people .
so they hauled his stupid butt to the county jail .
they then tested him for drugs and alcohol .
he failed all the tests .
he even tested positive for cocaine .
so hes sitting in jail for now .
needless to say this man is a fool .
i go down to the jail and laugh at him some more because i figured it was for the best .
next , i get called by one of my florida friends named fred .
hes not the one who is doing stupid things here .
he tells me about a woman he works with dancing about with a chicken head at random .
she just stops working in the meat department in publix and just prances with chicken parts .
now how much of a fool does one have to be to do something like that ?
if she were here , i would say haha what a fool .
actually , i would say it anyways .
it was great , when fred told me about this , yes i have idiocy spies everywhere .
then there was a guy running around the school with underwear on his head .
i was surprised at that .
it takes a lot to surprise me , so i investigated .
naturally he was a prime candidate for the fool of the year award .
he won out of all of the people who were listed in the book .
well he had the underwear on as a dare .
the other part of the dare was to get drunk and try to have sex with a bear .
well they took him to the woods and he passed out .
well he came to , and his buddies drove off laughing .
they knew there werent any bears around , but the guy flipped when he remembered what he was there to do .
well they were wrong , a huge bear came along and strangely enough it wanted to mate .
i never saw a man run so fast in all my life .
he might have ran all the way back to campus .
this was 5 miles away he said .
he didnt win the dare , but at least he got out alive .
he started hyperventilating when he realized just what he did .
he wins the moron award hands down .
finally , there was a fool named james mackey , my father .
he was born , enough said .
no seriously , hes a fool .
why you might ask , well he skipped on college to drive cabs , was divorced 2 times by the age of 29 , and ignored his families .
yes families , he has a son by his first wife , who he left behind as well .
in addition , he was a suspected pervert who went to strip clubs , which is one thing if youre single or even if your wife goes with you , but he went alone .
he had a deputy sheriff hanging out of his cab window during a drug bust .
i have seen the disposition to prove it in case he is out there planning any kind of legal action for my saying so .
i didnt find out about it until i was 18 years old .
it was a sad day for me .
everyone makes mistakes however .
getting married is one , see i heard that parents set the ground on which we conceptualize romantic relationships .
this just proves it , because i used to have a severe problem with everything like that .
then there was the time some fool got drunk and his drink got replace by vinegar and hot sauce .
he thought he was drinking whiskey , but it turned out to be the awful mix .
i mixed in the hot sauce , dave did the vinegar .
i felt pretty bad but we could have done worse .
so i handed him the bottle and watched that motherfucker chug away .
oh and i think dave might have peed in it , because he was drinking too much , and there was nowhere else to go .
this happened about 3 months before my college graduation , which was august 12 , 2005 .
unfortunately , someone later ran off with his money .
i tried to find out what happened .
i couldnt help the guy .
i also apologized for such a mean prank , but he said it was just a harmless prank .
so then we go off drinking , and dave tries to pick up women at the bar .
im making some money passing as the bartender .
i walk away with a thousand bucks that night , dave walks away with a blonde on each arm and the drunken guy walks away broke and sick with the word moron stamped to his head .
i randomly say balls for no reason .
then i say you have to have balls to do all that .
the last fool in the list claimed to have gotten a massage from a hyperactive pepper who massaged salt into his skin .
he called his best friend a chocolate shake this was all his saying for help , but the shake just laughed at him .
this was around 3 am at a bar called ozone in coral springs .
i was partying my ass off with a gorgeous redhead as usual although sometimes the girls are blonde or brunette and this guy comes up .
he was probably drunk but just to check sure i follow him till he sobers up .
he insists the story was in fact true .
i say he needs to get some rest in an attempt to save the guys dignity .
however , he keeps insisting and even elaborating .
he claims that a can of mustard was filming the event , while a jar of pickles tried to seduce him .
and a squirrel kept trying to bite his nuts .
i obviously call for the funny farm guys to get him .
i say they should start paying me for sending these guys to them .
they take him away and i continue partying .
i call dave and tell him what happened .
at some point in the night , he drops by to join the party at the club .
i pass out there , but the bartender doesnt care since i got rid of the crazy guy who was scaring the customers .
the next day i wake up and go off to school .
i wasnt drunk i get to class early and meet dave at about 8 30 am and have a laugh about the previous night .
i mean what a buffoon a guy would have to be to make that up .
it turns out later the guy was just extremely drunk so they let him go .
i said oops and laughed more .
a few weeks later i see some guy trying to kill bugs .
with a shotgun .
the guy saw some flies and decided to start shooting at them .
of course , this guy was from the hill country and didnt know no better as he put it , when the cops came to take him away .
so he tried to fight with the cops and bashed one over the head with his rifle .
i say idiot now hes done it .
he tries to drive away but the car wont run .
by then the cops had put sugar in his tank , because they thought he would escape .
a few of them try to turn the car over so that he has to come out .
this works and they beat the guy like rodney king .
so then he is in the jail and hes still there im sure .
it turns out he had way too much to drink so he winds up trying to escape again , he runs straight into a telephone pole and passes out , this was before the cops caught and beat him .
so they do that and i go home from wherever i was hanging out at .
haha i forgot because the events were just so amusing that evening .
so i go home and what do i see on the way there ?
the fool at the bar had escaped from the loony lounge , the funny farm etc .
he tried again to convince me that he was massaged by a homicidal squirrel .
i laugh at him and tell him to go home and sleep because he was drunker than a skunk .
he does in fact , he lives next door to where i lived at the time , which was a spooky thought .
the next day he gets up and has no memory of what happened the night before .
at the club though he did pretty much the same thing .
we decided to go together so i could see his foolery firsthand .
in spite of his moronicness he got 3 girls to dance with him .
i got four , he got pissed off and started a barroom brawl because of that .
finally , some suit wearing idiot , i think it was the suitcase guy mentioned in the first chapter waddled up to me and said guess what ?
im going to jail and sounded ecstatic about it .
he was ecstatic about it , and it was a really nice suit , a versace suit made in 2004 .
he went around making bets gambling on sports , buying rounds of drinks , and handing out cuban cigars .
he wanted to give out high priced cubans to everyone and i dont just mean cigars wink wink .
of course , i take him up on that and mess around with all the girls he pays for and i smoke the cigars too .
so he goes off whooping it up and asks some random person in the street why he is so happy and the guy tells him youre having a baby ?
the guy says no im going to jail !
note at this point he is quite drunk .
his ex wife informs him after he is in the squad car that he is in fact having a baby .
yeah the cops let him have one last hurrah on the outside .
he was acquited however of robbing the bank because the real robbers confessed .
he got turned loose and had another party to celebrate his wife leaving the country .
she however ended up getting the chair because she turned to crime in england .
haha just kidding , but she did leave for europe , with annulment papers for her and her ex husband .
he got the copy , signed it , and went back to partying his ass off .
by the way he was 50 years old .
chapter 15 perverts the next chapter is about perverts .
the first incident happened in my senior year around november 2004 .
i happened to hear a story from some people in boca that there was a pervert running around fau exposing himself in the girls locker rooms .
so naturally me and dave go to investigate this .
after about 3 hours of waiting around i see some guy walking into the girls locker rooms and it is him , the pervert .
so i see the campus security driving around and i say it is him the pervert .
so i point and laugh and also shout pervert !
he realizes what is going on .
so they chase him , as do dave and myself .
the pervert is like oh s when he realizes we are all after him .
so dave and i both tackle the guy and campus security says they will handle it from there .
one of the girls he was spying on comes up and kicks him in the nuts .
so me and dave point and laugh at him and then fight over the girl who kicked him in the nuts .
just kidding .
then i heard that there was a girl who was going around exposing herself too .
so i set out to find out its great material for the book .
i find her and it turns out shes had too much to drink .
she passed out in the university center where she was naked , so i happened to have a black marker and wrote mouse was here on her tummy and drew a mustache and beard on her face .
so then the cops come and i tell them shes with me and ill take her home .
i just leave her there after shes sober , which takes forever .
then i yell pervert in her ear just to mess with her .
while shes still drunk she asks me for sex , i tell her no i like them sober , it was tempting , very much so though .
she was gorgeous , but i wont tell much more about that haha .
well dave sees this and hes roaring with laughter .
so later i ask her to sleep with me when shes sober .
she does , but i wound up being drunk because i was a bit nervous i rarely did things like that .
finally , i see some guy who couldnt hold his liquor at a frat party on school campus piss his pants and run around announcing it to everyone .
he went around shouting hey everyone i just pissed my freaking pants , want to see ?
of course , a ton of women are going eww in the background and the guys including myself are like look at that crazy fucker .
i of course decide to certify that indeed he has pissed his pants , over the p.a.i also certify the fact that this man is in fact , a crazy fucker .
i also use a bullhorn in case anyone missed that .
he drops his wallet in the process .
i hand it back to him after a while and his id card slips out its fake as his name is tits mcgee .
i of course pull this out and wave it to the crowd who is still watching him act the drunken fool .
dave rolls up and sees this , and we have a field day with him although i already have .
we make sure everyone sees his fake id , it says he works as a porn star .
so we go on partying our asses off with two gorgeous women , the entire night after we say score one more for the book .
the next day , i wind up next to the girl of my choice as does dave .
the drunken fool wakes up pissed off and pissed on .
note its better to be pissed off than pissed on .
someone had pissed on him while he passed out he was also exposed by some pranksters who thought it would be funny to steal his clothes .
so he wakes up with the word pervert stamped on his head , naked and pissed on , so he was understandably pissed off .
he wanted to kill the first person he saw , so i made sure we all left before he woke up .
so then we had a good laugh about everything that happened .
i went to class hung over as hell , but it was fine since no one cared .
i tried to and did act normal .
so he finds out his id is gone and flips out , and then his buddies happen by and say hey tits mind if we see your alter ego for a while hahaha .
later next week on a friday night i went to a party where some guy streaked and tried to make some dude kiss his ass .
the stench coming from the guy was unbearable to start with so they threw the guy out on his ass .
i was like damn it sucks to be him .
he attempted to get back in the party , but of course could not .
add to that that the campus police picked him up for being butt naked in the restroom .
he was having fun and also being quite drunk and very stupid in public .
he nearly had a psychotic breakdown .
i didnt blame him , after all he s just a prankster .
they let him go after realizing he was just a victim of circumstance , they also gave him a pair of pants and dropped him off at his dorm .
they told him no more parties for a week .
i was watching the whole thing and couldnt help but laugh and also feel sorry for him .
he saw me and was like hey what are you s doing here ?
well that changed everything , i was like you buddy , so he got mad and left .
i threw a burrito at the guy and he got it all over his shirt .
he in turn tried to dump trash in daves car but wound up slipping in it and busting his ! ! !
of course me and dave wound up driving away laughing .
i flipped a police officer off that night and shouted whoo !
then i did the same to the drunken bums in the streets of miami where dave decided to drive .
the next incident was october 2004 someone who looked a lot like dave was going around coral springs , the town i lived in , mooning people .
now for those of you who dont know , that means he exposed his butt to them .
he mostly did this from the backs of buses .
i joined him in this , but only if people had money , no im kidding .
he did though since it was a dare .
i dared him to do it .
i asked dave if he was the guilty party , he laughed turned bright red and swore he didnt do it , you cant prove i did it and you never saw me do it .
i laugh and say ok fine you didnt do it .
so i asked if he knew who did do it .
he of course had no idea .
i find out who it was though .
the guy claimed he was daves evil twin .
similarly , my brother makes a slight appearance in this book .
no he didnt do anything worth adding himself .
in the next book he might be a star however .
nah only kidding hes clean for now .
he did dare a man to streak around the high school he was attending , he offered the guy a dollar to do it .
interestingly enough the guy did it .
it was front page news i m sure .
they caught the streaker later in the day , at dennys .
one can only imagine why someone would lower themselves like that for a dollar .
it was sad however , i mean they interrupted the guys meal to arrest him .
i mean come on let a man or woman as the case may happen in the future eat before carting them off to jail for the night .
they found him probably around 6 pm and with his clothes on at that point .
he is an idiot if ever i heard of one thank god i havent seen him .
thankfully i didnt get a chance to see that much stupidity up close and personal .
the next day i heard he was expelled from coral springs high school .
that is going a bit far in my opinion , i mean suspension sure , but dont make it so he cant finish high school .
that is just too much .
i mean his whole life could be wasted then .
next , around march of this year 2006 there was a suspected pervert running around the usa campus university of south alabama exposing himself , it was a midget who was smoking dope at the time of the suspected incident .
apparently , he was mad at people for tossing them , beating on them , kicking them around , and making fun of them .
he pissed on the cop cars who were pursuing him .
he got away a few times but then he exposed himself to one of the officers a guy no less he says yes im gay got a problem with that ?
all his victims he says were men .
well before the cops take him away i ask the guy for an interview , yes i wanted to ask him his motives and how many people he had done this to .
of course , he tries to do it to me and i turn away before he reaches for his belt .
i just walk away and then they take him away .
he then starts saying you !
im going to get you and then youll see mini me his term for his guy parts .
i threw up , it was involuntary , which surprised me since i have a strong stomach , very strong .
so the cops cart him off and he goes to court , he gets a five year sentence , because it turns out he was caught with dope on him .
it turns up in the usa news that the guy is a dope on his dope .
the guy however breaks out and becomes a homeless bum , eventually moving into a retirement home , where he exposes himself to old men , this seems to become more common .
he eventually finds someone who enjoys this type of insanity .
the old woman who happens to live there , who by the way is 75 if she is a day , decides to get married to him .
he flips out of course because he likes being a promiscuous pervert .
so he vows never to be a pervert again anyways .
he takes off like a bat out of hell , which is awesome .
the old woman chases him out of her old folks home .
he is faster so she gives up sadly .
they would have made a good couple i think .
as long as i dont have to see him again i dont care haha .
he eventually ended up married to another midget in california .
i laughed and said thank god for gay marriage .
chapter 16 random stupidness i heard a guy ratting on his gang friends one day , he wouldnt however mention who the leader of the group was or what they were up to .
so the cop he was talking to rats him out .
he tells the gang members that their friend was a snitch and had the tape to prove it .
can you guess what happened to the guy ?
shot dead .
now that guy was really stupid .
another person walks around telling everyone that guess what ?
im going to jail and i couldnt be happier about it whoopee .
i laugh at him and then the cops come to take him away .
i shout idiot at him .
apparently he had been caught jaywalking and tried to put up a fight , then drove into a park driving recklessly because he was high .
it looked like a scene out of cops .
it was crazy , he actually said oh shit when they came by to scoop him up .
then on the weekend after i finished college , guys just spontaneously beat the hell out of each other .
this was no playfight , they were seriously going at it .
so i stop everything and just watch this display of imbecility .
i like to use different terms to describe activities like this i then just stop and stare at how low the iq of the room has sunk .
i was thinking this is cool , hit him with your cane i thought , and use the denture grip .
so then one of the guys kicks the other in the nuts and pushes him into a stop sign .
this would end the fight , but the other guy gets up and does the same resulting in the other guy getting ran the over .
well he wasnt completely run over just bumped into actually .
the fight kept going .
one guy finally seemed to have the upper hand cracking the other with a cane .
the other indeed used the denture grip he used his removable teeth to pinch him with .
they took a few minutes to catch their breath .
then round two began .
these guys were having a battle .
it was incredible .
i had never seen anything like it in all my life .
interestingly , enough both of these men were 70 if they were a day , at least .
they were like you young whippersnapper and dad gum it .
they flipped each other the bird while fighting .
i never laughed so hard in my life .
the cops come around and i say no no these two were fighting pointing at the old men .
neither wants to press charges and i asked them why they were fighting .
they did it for fun supposedly .
i was like damn people are crazy .
i just walked away .
i watched as the two got pushed into the paddy wagon for the night , they were turned loose , but the judge admonished them not to act like children , which was pretty darn funny considering their ages .
one man was named hubert and the other ezekiel , neither name you would expect such hooliganish behavior from .
so i call on the p.a .
when the fight is raging between these two oldsters and see if their wives are there to scold them , but they apparently were confirmed bachelors .
i call on the p.a .
after that to call attention to this show of stupidity .
the manager catches wind of this and says good lord no !
the next day at publix , two guys were hanging around making fun of people at publix , particularly me .
they were stupid punks , so they tried to rob the store .
of course , they were caught and the cops hauled their sorry butts away .
whats worse is that the manager chewed them out .
i wouldnt want to be in that position .
then when i laughed at them , the manager at the time said it wasnt funny .
i beg to differ it was funny , they were being arrested and they got yelled at by the boss .
one stupid thing that i did when i was younger was to fire a person i didnt like from publix .
it was not official of course , but i wanted to have some fun on my break .
i called a guy named todd on the pa while on break .
i said todd you are fired f i r d i misspelled it because it was amusing to me .
as it was , i nearly got suspended and might have been fired , but i stopped doing pranks at work at least on the p.a .
then there was a bunch of incidents with a fellow named fransisco .
my first thought was man he is an idiot .
numerous girls were supposedly in love with him .
he said anyways .
one time he got some guys keys stuck in his car door .
it was hilarious .
fransisco was a pure idiot , he got fired from his job for his idiocy .
ill get into the details here .
one day he was just hiding out in publix , not doing work , so he got suspended .
a few weeks later he found out he was canned .
i was like damn what a fool .
a lot of people celebrated when he left .
me and another friend laughed our asses off talking about this .
i felt kind of bad but still amused .
his last official action before leaving was to grab the pa phone and fart into it , thus letting everyone know what a fool he was .
then there was andrew .
he was 10 times as bad as fransisco .
he is cool but dumb when it comes to pranks .
he used to claim that the boss told me to do extra work , so i checked , and he got made to do the worst for his tricks .
he tried to trick keith too , but he was too smart for him too .
then there was a guy who claimed to have seen the pillsbury doughboy .
now youre probably thinking so what , hes a popular character to watch on commercials .
but he said he saw the guy at a club drinking and smoking a blunt .
he further said he had left the club with two blonde women who were supermodels .
another person claimed to be his lawyer and said to stop slandering her client .
then i told her to be quiet , because i have seen similar things .
i hadnt really , but it was too much fun to pass up .
i told her that i had seen the pillsbury doughboy on the town with a hooker .
he was seen doing the worm and throwing down 100 dollar bills on the bar .
he was singing and clearly drunk .
he slipped on the bar where strippers were asking him to show them the dough .
so he says ok and shows them the goods .
i tell his lawyer he was on a date with a friend of mine that night .
she claims its a look alike , who wanted to make fun of him .
she walks away disgusted and i just laugh because its the funniest story i could think of .
what spooked me was i saw a guy , who was in the doughboy costume , when i went to the club that night .
he was indeed with female attention and singing .
he had a blunt in his mouth and a beer in one hand .
he was wilding out all night .
the next day i asked did you sleep well and he says hell no man i was wilding out all night long .
i told him he was indeed wilding out all night .
he then passed out .
it turned out it was my friend keith hopper in the doughboy costume , which was why he was willing to tell me of the events of the previous night so freely .
i was like man you had girls all over you as the doughboy .
he laughed and said i know .
i told him we should hit the mall and tell of our adventure .
he agreed and we did .
i told him hes got a lawyer acting on his behalf .
the weird thing was he didnt seem too surprised about it .
apparently people who impersonate celebrities expect that .
we decided to go around telling everyone who would listen our story .
we sang some green day music and laughed at people for no reason .
i pointed and laughed at a guy who was fighting for a sandwich .
it was a gross looking sandwich at that .
then there were two homeless guy yelling at each other saying you !
and !
you .
me and keith thought that was hilarious , and more so when they started beating the hell out of each other .
gratuitous violence is in fact funny .
involuntary violence is even funnier .
so then keith offers me the doughboy outfit .
i decline at first , but he insists saying it would be fun .
so i accept graciously , and try to live up to the name , and the wildness .
as soon as i come in some woman tries to take a bite out of me .
i said i dont bite on the first date lady .
she left looking sad , and asked why she looked sad .
she said you dont remember last night .
i said oh yeah i remember last night and smiled .
i tell her what happened , and before i could say another word keith elbowed me in the ribs saying , dont you remember you were so high you cant remember last night .
i said oh yeah i had been smoking funny cigarettes and drinking .
what did i do ?
well this girl told me we slept in bed , and on the floor and in the pool and in the jacuzzi together along with 3 other women .
i said no way and winked at keith .
i couldnt believe he did all this , i mean he just looked to me like he was not the type to do that .
well i try to outdo him , not as a competition thing , but because he told me to try for better .
so i smoke 2 blunts drink a boatload of beer and 5 women join me in bed .
now remember they think im the doughboy so thats why they do this .
yes there were a lot of extremely stupid women , and also men , at that bar , the men were the ones who gave me the blunts .
i have a huge hangover from the beer and the blunts , well the blunts balance it out .
i realize i was feeling good in the night though .
the doughboys lawyer tried to cover it up , but realized we were fakes and quit defending us .
me and keith lived it up we are currently taking dough nations to keep up the spirit of the doughboy and party our asses off forever like he would want us to .
no one gave us money for our supposedly frivolous cause so we gave up on that .
i still go out with the costume on sometimes just for kicks .
i have it hanging in my closet for anyone who wants to see it sometime .
keith has one too in case he wants to go out with hot women , drink a bunch for free get high once in a blue moon , or perform on stage as a novelty guitarist .
next there was a young guy who spilled oil on his riding mower and fell in a ditch .
his name was jack striker , a rich arrogant fool , who had a bank account bigger than the law should allow .
he is so rich that he could buy the state of florida but he is such an idiot it defies logic .
he was singing in the shower one day and had accidentally put a bottle of car oil in his pocket and forgotten about it .
he gets his clothes on and goes to ride around on his lawn mower .
he gets on and feels something wet and warm on his clothes , completely saturating them .
he shouts oil !
and spills it all over the place in his shock .
he of course slips off and falls into a ditch rolling down a hill wounding his pride more than his body .
he gets oil all over himself possibly swallowing some .
however , he tries to get out and cant do it because of the oil .
he is screwed he thinks .
he tries calling someone , but his phone fell out of his pocket and the mower ran it over .
then he tries yelling but no ones there .
he fails to notice the ditch is waist deep .
finally , the fire department is called in because someone notices the town is more intelligent since hes in the ditch .
no im kidding , but seriously he is in there for a while because he is such a buffoon .
so he gets out and his leg is a bit twisted , and hes filthy from the oil spill , but otherwise fine .
so jack decides to go to bed since he got out at around midnight and it turns out his mower was stolen .
so he goes home saying !
then he trips on a part of the mower and lands face first .
he passes out and wakes up the next day with a bum next to him and hes missing his pants .
of course , he flips out and starts beating the guy up assuming the worst .
two other bums are there laughing at this rich dude who is acting the fool .
then there was another fool who went around claiming he was elvis .
he kind of looked like fat elvis .
he was fat enough to be him , and had the stupid shades .
he ate like him and took a lot of drugs .
he even sang like him and womanized like him .
it was great , the picture is going in the next book .
this guy was doing this in the fau gym at around 1pm when i was finishing my workout .
i said look at this guy , he belongs in the book .
he tried to go on stage at wackadoos , security threw him out eventually when he was shouting dont you know who i am , i m elvis .
he slipped on a banana peel , and landed in his fried pb and banana sandwich .
this guy apparently tried to shake rattle and roll his way on stage and wound up doing the jailhouse rock .
he wound up in the heartbreak hotel .
im not sure when the king checked out , but he took a pretty long stay at the heartbreak hotel it seemed .
i couldnt wait to see when or where this fool would strike next .
he decided later that instead of being fat elvis , he wanted to be handsome elvis , so he went back to college and became an exercise science person , majoring in personal training .
i saw him everywhere , and on weekends he would perform as elvis on stage , of course he became well known as a fool , not a rock star , as everyone with any sense knows elvis is in fact , dead .
he graduated with honors in fact , he opened his own studio but it failed miserably .
it was called elviss place .
the problem was customers kept buying junk food after the workouts , and not getting their goals met fitness wise .
of course , they blamed him and left the club .
i felt bad for now not so fat elvis , and gave him some advice , but it was too late .
his company died shortly after , but he gained a record contract like the real elvis did , and performed as a novelty actor .
i was happy for this poor fool who lucked out big time .
i actually called it fools luck .
next is some fool who apparently had too much stress to deal with life , so he took it out on a pb and j sandwich , thats right a baseball player for the fau team starting beating up a poor innocent pb and j sandwich .
i was in shock as i watched him beat down the sandwich and yell obscenities at it .
i was going to tell him calm down its just a sandwich .
it was finals week , and he was the star hitter for the team .
i decided that telling a guy swinging a bat anything was a bad idea .
he had clearly lost it , and someone decided it would be funny to play pb and j by the buckwheat boys .
of course , this catches his attention , and he decides to eat the tenderized sandwich .
he calms down and someone gives him a sleeping pill .
he woke up stranded at the school hours later looking for the sandwich intending to beat on it more .
i of course had left hours ago , but some people were commenting on what a fool this guy was .
i agreed , i mean he just out of nowhere just busted out losing his mind .
of course , i just happen to have a camcorder , and hes embarrassed to hell the next day after the incident .
he is laughed out of the university for this .
he eventually became a bum and moved to california , nah just kidding he had to go to another school next semester though .
he never had another sandwich like that or so i heard .
i go around showing everyone the video i took of this fool beating on his sandwich .
next , there was the teleprompter incident at a baseball game .
for some reason , there was a guy on the baseball scoreboard video picking his nose , the stadium held about 40,000 people .
of course , they all see this and laugh at the poor guy , who has no idea what is so funny until he sees himself on the old scoreboard .
by then , hes mortified , which is ridiculous , i mean its bad but not that bad .
however , for some reason they decide to do an instant replay , but instead of a play coming up , the nose picking incident comes up .
it gets so bad , that the guy vows to sue major league baseball .
it turns out a prankster had broken into the media area and pranked the poor guy .
he goes out onto the field , making a bigger fool of himself on national television .
of course , i catch this on video and start selling copies for everyone to see .
he tries to find the prankster and indeed does , beating the holy hell out of him and dragging him around all the bases .
i roll over laughing at this guy .
of course , this is all on tape too .
the ratings are through the roof for whatever station is covering this , and i almost fall over the fence laughing , thankfully dave pulled me back in otherwise i would have gotten hurt badly .
the man then goes back to picking his nose , before the cops come to pick him up for the riot , and to tell him what an idiot he is for being on the prompter .
i mean this is worse than the soccer riots in england .
about a week after this incident nothing of interest happens .
we look everywhere , but the idiots must have been getting smarter i thought .
then it happens .
a police officer arrests an old person for not crossing the road fast enough .
this was by the way , an 84 year old woman who got arrested .
now i dont know about you , but if i can still get out of bed at 84 , i will be very happy .
heck , if i make it to 84 i will be very happy .
i listen in disbelief as i hear about this .
i mean come on , this person could barely walk and the cops arrest them for it .
i laugh at the idiot who made the arrest .
they said this person was obstructing traffic .
well it sounds to me like the cop was obstructing common sense .
at least thats how i see it .
hey make your own call if you dont agree .
so i call the cop a buffoon and leave the bar i saw this on .
in addition to this , on the same day i see that in california the police are cracking down on certain offenders , who you might ask , killers , rapists or drug dealers ?
none of the above , its jaywalkers .
jaywalkers !
i thought you have to be kidding me not a stupid crime like that , that shouldnt even be a crime .
apparently priorities got messed up at the station .
as it turns out , they claim accidents have been up .
it is not like i am going to die crossing the street the wrong way .
we have serious problems to take care of , and these guys want to stop jaywalkers from crossing the road .
morons logic if ever i heard it in my life .
so then after hearing this i walk home , now mobile is a pretty big town so it takes a while , but all i can think about is the actions of that cop , and the poor 84 year old woman he arrested .
next i find out that a person who works as a doctor cheated all the way through high school and college .
i mean damn they were dumb .
you would think they were from the slackers movie .
i mean the guy did some of his surgeries while high he told me .
i got an email from an old friend who wanted to be a doctor so this is how i know .
his name was jack jackson and he was quite the hellraiser .
nobody knew how he lived the way he did and still became a doctor .
some believed he was a cheater , but couldnt prove it .
he got wasted every night during high school , college , and grad school it seemed .
he brought home girls to his dorm and worked as a bartender , which was nice since i got free drinks .
he ended up robbing banks and doing crime for a high .
he had to keep raising the bar in the end because the high wore off and he crashed into depression .
unfortunately , i thought man what a dope .
so he says im jack jackson youll never catch me as he shoots from a car while someone else drives .
i drove the car a few times while wearing a face mask , which was great since i didnt know how to drive and had no liscense or permit at the time .
he robbed five banks in 3 hours once .
he robs more banks and when he is caught , a mob marches him off to be killed by electricution after his trial .
he turns to me and says hey buddy im going to the electric chair .
sparks are going to shoot from the top of my head , my hair is going to be sparking .
im going to sizzle whoo .
everyone will remember me as the most daring man who ever lived .
now that is a dope , a man who lives for the rush so much , that he doesnt care if he lives or dies .
at the same time i admire him , he was fun and indeed the most daring man who ever lived , i think .
anyways , i got to see him as he went to the chair , hell i joined the mob marching him to the chair .
i was saddened to see him go , but then realized if hes happy to go then i should be happy for him .
i cheered him on .
then i see it the electric chair .
sure enough , he has lightning shooting from his skull and he whoops it up all the while , like hes at a party .
i go to his funeral and someone passes wind on his grave .
i punch the guy out for that because that day was supposed to be memorializing a great man , and a great cheater , in the classroom and with the women .
he helped me get my first girl and my hundredth ha just kidding about the last one , but he always invited me to his wildest parties .
next , there was a guy who wound up looking at a hot girl and drove his car into a telephone pole .
thats right a telephone pole .
my phone was out for 3 days thanks to this fool .
in june 2005 , i was going to the davie campus at fau , and saw some guy not looking at the road but at a hot blonde girl , who it seemed was underage .
she was short so i assumed she was .
i thought man what a pervert .
his passengers tried to warn him , and when he hit the pole he shouted whoo hoo boobs !
i see this and hold my head in shock , this was unprecedented .
i mean people talk about this , but never see it i thought .
well the blonde did , and asked if everyone was ok .
eventually they end up married , but for now they just met .
she helps him out of the car , he pretends he is hurt until medical attention arrives .
i couldnt believe this guys idiocy was helping him get girls .
he ends up at the hospital and it turns out he is fine and a faker , but it was worth it to see that girl with him .
ill put the picture of her in the next book too .
believe me it is worth a thousand words .
maybe its even worth ten thousand .
so the next day he gets picked up to leave as his car is nearly totally useless .
surprise surprise , the mystery girl is there .
she takes him to work and i say idiot , because he wrecked his car looking at her .
so i come to the conclusion women like idiots , this explains why i havent gotten laid in a week .
haha well maybe i will next week , who knows , so anyways he gets a happy ending .
i talk to a girl online who happens to have done the same thing , her name is lisa , and shes pretty cute if you like goth girls , she always complains about being fat , and she is mean note she really isnt fat , she just says she is for sympathy .
my response now is to call her an emo chick .
she was driving down the road and in a blast of pure inspiration , decided to look at a guy she claimed was hot .
of course , i couldnt tell but dave could .
nah just playing hes not gay in the least .
seriously , she hit a stop sign while checking out the guys butt as she told me .
this was after she says i shouldnt drive on the road .
of course , i tell her look whos talking .
she says if i get my liscense she is going to stay off the road .
she tells me to shut up after i remind her of her incidents .
she says shes dumb , but shes also pretty cool .
she would make a good stripper or hooters girl .
she also weirdly enough yelled boobs when she crashed and probably got the guys attention , i know it would get my attention to hear someone shout boobs .
so she ends up chasing the guy , trying to have sex with him ignoring the fact her car is now ruined possibly beyond repair .
she got him , my bad .
to which i said all right and all it took was you shouting boobs and wrecking your car .
congrats blah blah .
im telling you i am staying off the road because of her not the other way around haha .
oh and she thinks i am crazy , when she is the one wrecking cars to stare at some dudes butt .
she told me hey at least i have my license .
this is not a good point , some people shouldnt have them .
then , there was guy who actually instant messaged me on yahoo to tell me he shit his pants .
thats right you heard it here first .
a person actually admits they crapped their drawers .
i couldnt believe it .
i am going to put the conversation in the next book more idiots .
seriously he goes on telling me how good it feels to s his pants , and i am just in amazement at his discovery .
so he says hes high , i tell him that explains it , he says he only does this while high .
i say sure dude , and then he goes on talking about his habit .
i just laugh and eventually he decides to get a new pair of pants , or i assume he does .
i would if i had done that and right away too .
by the way , the guy also shouted pants when he crapped them , which was hilarious .
then there was a guy who farted in the main air vent at his school .
maybe it was a stink bomb that he set off .
in any case , this guy was a prankster , the class clown type .
next is stupidity based in crime .
this one goes together i mean if youre a criminal , youre stupid .
that being said , our first criminal tried to break into his high school .
let me stop there , and repeat that so you can grasp the idiocy of this person .
his name was mike and he broke into his high school !
he was supposedly forced to play lookout for the others who did the same thing .
of course , i said what an idiot .
he was caught and i am sure afterwards the cops had a good laugh about it .
they probably claimed this guys idiocy is legendary , and it is .
he got a tracking device in him as part of his sentence he was warranted for other things , which makes him more of a moron for doing this .
if you have warrants , dont do more crimes .
dont break into high school .
so when i hear this im thinking of the haha youre dead song by green day .
this was until his girlfriend at the time sends me a message saying how much she loves him .
i try to help her out , by finding out how to block the gps , aluminum supposedly blocks it and told her so .
by the time she tells him though , he goofed with her and she forgot all about him .
what a moron .
he got 15 more years and lost his girlfriend who was very lovely , her name is amanda .
oh well , as for the moron , i could see it if he was trying to break out of school , thats understandable , but breaking in ?
why would someone want to be there in the first place , and go there when not required to ?
it was impossible , at least for me .
i really couldnt believe this one at first .
i mean i did not go to high school when i was required to let alone when i was not .
i skipped my fair share when i was in college too .
i skipped more than i should , but usually got good grades .
i am planning on cutting out of grad school when i go , its inevitable .
im doing it .
next was the guy who worked at albertsons and robbed the place .
his name was jon schneiderhausenwitz .
he decided being a service clerk was too boring .
he wanted to be like a tv character he saw , who ran around acting like a fool , hooting and hollering raising hell , and doing it again each day .
he put on a bad fitting mask and decided to rob albertsons with a fake gun .
of course , everyone knew it was him , and he says youll never catch me .
he ran like hell , driving away at around 80 miles per hour .
he actually shouted youll never take me alive .
well the guy wound up hitting an oil slick that the cops set up to trap him , the guy shouted oil !
this was just like jack striker .
he spun out of control and hit a tree , which was bad for him because his best friend lent him his car .
of course , a car used in the commission of a crime becomes seized by the local government , so he lost out on ten thousand dollars .
of course , his friend happened by and saw the whole thing .
he shouted oil as well when john hit the oil , then oh shit as he realized what was going on .
he ran up and beat the guy for losing him his truck .
he , of course , slipped in the oil and fell on his ass .
of course , the cops separate them and his friend gets arrested too .
the friend was released since he was clearly out of his mind .
of course , they did take him alive it was great , he went out like my friend jack did , except possibly less daring since it was not a lifestyle for him .
that sucked for him because he wanted to start a new life of crime .
i once considered , wait several times considered a life of crime , but i am too smart for that .
that is too bad , since i think i would be the most daring man who ever lived .
if i was going to go down anyways , i might as well be the best at what i do .
the fool thinks he is going to get the chair for his heinous acts , but in fact the judge gives him a life sentence .
he goes to jail and hes just ready for bubba to get him haha .
actually , now that i remember right , his exact sentence was three hundred years and five life sentences , because the man was also caught with drugs , weapons , and other things on him he shouldnt have , including child pornography .
he belongs in chapter 15 as well , but whats the point , i have mentioned enough perverts .
the next fool tries to rob a bank , but winds up shooting himself in the foot , literally .
dave and i happen to be in a bank asking how to deposit our millions yeah right and some guy tries to rob the bank .
his posse is waiting outside and hes getting the loot when his gun goes off in his pocket .
i , of course , shout fool !
he runs off trying to get into the escape car , but dave again sacks the fool , laughing at him .
he literally sacked the guy , with a sack full of coins .
dave then shouted sack !
the guy then gets tackled by a bank employee who holds him for some medical attention and also the police .
they promptly make fun of him while putting him under arrest .
of course the emts laugh at him while hearing the story .
of course dave gets a hero celebration for his role in stopping the guy .
the bank gives him some money , i just laugh at the guy who shot himself in the foot .
the guy almost got away though , he tried to get in the car , and blood spilled out so the driver and his friends threw the guy in the road to cover their tracks .
thats when the bank guy tackled him .
what an idiot , he trusted crooks to help him .
so he goes to jail .
dave gets a celebration at the school cafeteria , or the club , whatever .
i go to the courthouse and raise hell making fun of the guy .
i almost spend a day in jail for doing that , but i promise not to act the fool in court again .
i did however make fun of him when the judge was not looking .
so the trial goes on for what seems like forever .
i say look maybe you should let him go .
i mean hes more than punished himself enough for what he did .
however , they had to wait for a few weeks until the guy could recover a bit so that he could defend himself .
he could barely get to the courthouse because he is such an idiot .
i loved seeing this one , it reminds me so much of the show cops , although i havent seen this in an episode .
it is true , truth is stranger than fiction .
of course , the guy gets a twenty year sentence for this .
it turned out he was warranted for other crimes that run a gauntlet .
sex , drugs , and rock and roll were involved at least three times each over the course of his crimes .
he wound up on the news and everything .
i was like man what a dope , he murdered , he fornicated with children , did drugs like lsd , he was on pcp when he did his last crime .
he actually imed me once to say he !
his pants , oh wait that was someone else .
oh well , he wound up getting old sparky to end his reign of crime .
of course , dave says look at this guy , hes a fool , hes being shocked and he gives the judge the finger .
i say well if youre going to die anyways , at least you should deserve it .
he would im me to tell me that .
next on the list of idiocy was a guy who tried to rob his neighborhood , but the neighbors got him back by burning his house down .
he must have seen home alone one too many times and tried to rob my house .
well i didnt try any traps or anything dumb like that .
i just put on a ninja mask and waved around a giant sword which wasnt real but he didnt know that .
so he runs out screaming and into a telephone pole face first .
when he gets up i chase him , but apparently other tricksters dug a ditch about 20 feet deep with broken glass at the bottom of it .
the guy , of course , runs for cover and lands in it , swallowing a fair bit of the glass .
i cover the guy with a rug and take off the mask , leave the sword down there with him , and tell the cops hey some guy in the ditch tried to rob my house .
he may need medical attention .
the guy wound up trying to claw his way out but the emts had to do it .
he also realized his house was on fire and said fools !
his house burned to the ground , because the fire department was also with the medical department helping him so they couldnt save his house .
he puked however , and the glass came up some cutting him pretty badly .
the emts tried to save him and did .
eventually , he made a full recovery and then realized he had to go to jail , on trial for breaking in and entering , burglary , and armed robbery , even though an 86 year old woman clobbered him with the old one two , knocking him out cold .
im not kidding , i talked to her , and she showed me her drivers license to prove it .
me and dave had a good laugh about this one .
the guy was behind bars and i went to visit him .
i grabbed a guards bullhorn after he said it was ok , and shouted james farnsworth is a fool .
he got cold cocked by an 86 year old woman who he attempted to rob but failed to rob .
of course , he was the laughing stock of all the hardened criminals in there and they probably made him their bitch .
i laughed and walked out of the jail .
he swore he would get me if it was the last thing he ever did , but i said thats tough talk for a guy who got cold cocked by a senior citizen and passed out .
he still said he would get me , so i asked the warden if i could have five minutes in the cell with him .
the warden said no and said sarcastically , no way man thats a hardened felon in there hed hurt you .
in any case , the next guy on the crime idiocy list is a guy who wound up slipping in his own slop and dying .
thats right , a guy checked out because he pissed his jail cell and drowned in it .
i almost checked out myself after hearing that .
i mean it was hard to breathe from the laughter , but also sad because americas criminals are the stupidest in the world .
well it turns out some guy was drinking too much pale ale or something , and around november 2005 i hear this story from dave .
i check it out at the jailhouse and it is true .
it actually happened in boca raton , to which i said score .
well it turns out the guy had to go really bad , and it showed .
he pissed his pants , and then all over the cell .
he slipped and hit his head where his brains promptly fell out .
i commented about the guy having an open mind .
he actually drowned in his own urine , which i found to be the height of moronness .
i asked the jailer what caused him to do this , and he responded that the man , named willard gacy had always been that way , he did things like that all the time he was in the jail .
he added that the man only had a week left of his sentence .
one week and the guy dies .
that is just horrible .
i then ask if he had done anything to which they might add to his sentence if he hadnt died .
they said he was planning a jail break and they were going to tack on 70 years to his sentence , if he was convicted .
i asked how old the guy was and he said 73 .
seventy three years old , and he would have 70 more if he tried to leave .
i said that would suck for him .
in fact , i felt for the guy .
i mean what a way to go , in his own piss in a prison .
every person deserves better than that .
of course , this gets around the jail house and mixed reactions result .
some laugh at the guy for being so stupid , some feel for the guy and his family , who were probably crushed .
i went to the service for the man and his family , stating i was doing research on this mans activities and life , so i felt obligated to be there at his passing .
his brother ended up falling in the casket by accident and spilling the body outside .
he then tried to put the body back in the casket , but wound up falling in it himself .
oh the horror .
ironically his brother was a captain of industry , he had built his own business in shipping .
he even went to college for it , while his brother wound up sliding more and more into ruin .
anyways , so for once his brother acts the fool .
then there was a story about a man who had died , and no one knew for two years that he was even missing .
he was a guy who was pretty invisible .
still , i mean someone should know .
his apartment bills werent being paid , he didnt show up for work , but the boss kept cutting checks for his job .
he was a loser by all accounts .
his name was james huey .
he liked to drink a lot , and he sang badly when he did .
as it was , he showed up to work one day drunk as a skunk , and walked out early , the boss didnt even notice .
he never made it back .
he checked out while taking a dump .
the guy skips work , and this is his karmic punishment ?
or maybe it is gods way of finally showing mercy to the man .
whatever you want to call it , its an interesting way to go .
of course , he stays in the toilet .
slumped and eventually falling on the floor .
now the stench should be getting to people since hes gone as yesterday .
since his roommates were stoners who never bathed themselves , the smell wasnt noticed in the least .
in fact , they didnt notice even when he was in the bathroom all the time , which should have been a little strange to them .
of course he never left , but the guys said hey james , whats up no answer , no problem .
the guys finally figured it out when one decided to give up drugs and give his life to jesus .
then the sober guy figured out james was deader than a doornail .
of course , all hell breaks loose after this revelation .
his boss flips out after realizing he was paying a dead guy for his non work .
of course this is nothing to feel bad about , because in america a man could be elected governor and die .
think about it , and this did happen somewhere in the united states , a man winning election or re election even though he died .
yes that is correct , a man won an election even though he was deceased , dead , gone from life .
people are idiots .
they are complete fools .
back to my story .
so then his landlord finds out , and is surprised because he had the rent money each month on time and was rarely a problem if ever .
he did think it was weird that he never saw him around or going to work .
then the stoners finally get around to telling the police their story .
they conveniently leave out the part where he died two years ago .
of course , to be fair , they had no idea how long ago he died , but the last time they saw him active was around that time .
it sucks when your brain is the size of a fleas egg due to pot .
this why i never touch the stuff .
i had a friend who knew the scientific process in which drugs do that stuff .
people who knew the guy were shocked .
some thought he killed himself , some thought he died of natural causes .
of course , the coroner said he died while taking a dump .
that , by the way , is a sad way to go , but it complimented his lifestyle .
i mean he lived sad , he died sad .
a lot of people felt sorry for him , but the point is how can anyone be so stupid as to not know someones dead for two whole years .
it was mind boggling .
i mean nobody noticed at all .
his nerdy friends from the college said damn now whos going to help us get girls , which was funny because the guy was dating the worst girl he could get .
he had to take her to mcdonalds each weekend , which is a sad thing in the fact he eats there .
the bad thing is he worked there all his life .
i still to this day cant get over how they did that .
a man dies and no one knows for two years , i hope that isnt my fate .
when i go to see god face to face , i want everyone to know where i am .
his roommates are charged with a crime before the examiner determines it was natural causes that killed him .
so they are let go , apparently they didnt notice because his money for the rent was set aside years in advance , which was weird .
it turned out he was living a wild double life as a closet man who liked his whiskey , fast cars , and mary jane .
what a fool i said .
not that he was a fool for doing those , but for pretending to be normal .
the stress must have killed him .
i also thought man he must be having the time of his life at night for the most part .
well it sounded fun except for him liking the men .
so then the stoners get released , and i conducted interviews with dave holding a camcorder .
i asked first his roommates how they couldnt notice him being dead for two years straight .
they didnt want to talk about it , and dave asks point blank if they were trying to hide it .
they still decline to answer , so we both say fine you guys are idiots at the top of our lungs .
we were pissed because they were being well morons , and they didnt want to talk about their moron like actions .
we then went to interview his girlfriend , who also had no idea he was dead .
this was strange , but she at least talked to us .
god damn we immediately thought at the same time , what did he do to deserve this ?
the guy kicks the bucket , and his lover doesnt care it seems .
she just thought the guy was a coward who didnt have the guts to break up with her .
she was very unattractive , had acne , badly bleached hair , well what was left of it , and not much was left .
she weighed , and i certified this , by watching her step on the scale over 400lbs .
this was the max weight her scale had .
it showed flags coming out of it .
so she had no idea , she just thought he left the country or something .
incredible i thought , as we went on to interview the mans employer , the manager at the local mcdonalds .
of course , he was busy , but found time to talk to us which was also incredible .
he said the guys work wasnt getting done , so he fired him .
of course , it didnt require a response , so he didnt care that he didnt get one .
he didnt care that the man didnt show up .
he called the house , but there was no answer .
so he gave up , he didnt think the guy died , but he was probably hoping .
i would too .
i mean the guy was an idiot himself .
he always had the worst of everything .
or so it would seem .
next we asked his friends what happened , we come to the conclusion that his only friends were those two dopes that he was living with .
last , we ask his mom and dad what happened .
it turned out his parents thought he was a loser .
they always referred to him as one and meant it .
he dropped out of high school to work at mcdonalds .
he wasnt smart or anything , but he could have gone to community college at least .
he never called or wrote because of the fight they had over that .
it was really sad , but they should have respected his decision .
i mean college doesnt help everyone .
they said yeah , but he should have finished high school , i mean that is a basic thing .
it turns out he finished high school by mail .
two years after he died his high school mailed his diploma , his parents said ha ha someone in our family graduated from high school finally , but they didnt let anyone hear that outburst .
and they thought he was a loser too , what a pair of fools .
for some reason , they got mad at us and said fucking college fools and left .
it should be noted that james pissed his pants on a regular basis as well .
next is a guy who robbed a bank and then decided to kill himself , while he was on acid .
this one decided also that he should carefully check whether the world was better off without him .
he thought if i died then people wouldnt be poor , other people wouldnt go to jail , and less suffering would be had by decent folks .
if he lived , he would commit more crime , more people would suffer , and he would teach others how to be criminals .
actually , in the end he decided to live , tough break for the world .
the cops caught him while contemplating all this , and he told them i want to live .
they said fine youll live , in the jailhouse for the next 60 years for all those banks you robbed .
they tossed him in , and i said what a fool , he stood around contemplating life or death , while the cops were after him .
man what an idiot , he should have been shot so he wouldnt procreate , well he wouldnt anyways after going to jail for 60 years .
i mean if youre a woman , would you want a guy whos in his 80s just getting out of prison ?
heck thats just sad , but it happens all the time in the united states .
speaking of criminals that are stupid , what about the justice system , its full of morons in charge .
there are over 2 million people in jail or prison in the united states .
we probably have a higher rate of incarceration than anyone in the free world .
it is incredible .
the morons in charge of our justice system lock people up for the stupidest things .
non violent drug offenders are put in jail everyday and given huge sentences .
some are given life under the three strikes law .
for some crimes , i would say one strike and youre out is better , but for crimes that dont hurt anyone , it doesnt make sense .
this is throwing away the life of someone who might turn around , or isnt really hurting anyone but themselves .
that person might be a pastor or a scientist or something amazing , but they end up behind bars forever .
it isnt good for them , and it isnt good for america .
these prison people are morons , the inmates yes , i have plenty of stories about them , but more so the administration .
corrections takes up money that could be used to help the poor , or schools , but no we have to house the criminals who we create .
that is right , we create criminals though laws .
crime is not universal and criminal actions now might not be crimes later and vice versa .
the biggest morons are the lawmakers .
theyve made it illegal to whistle on certain days , for dogs to bark in certain areas , and for shopkeepers to push customers in their stores , as well as a million other loony laws .
now i have to ask why would anyone do something like this ?
i could understand them making it illegal to drag customers in shops then again who does that ?
even i wouldnt do that .
i mean i wont need to , people will love this book .
seriously who comes up with all these loony laws ?
congress , thats who .
we all need to demand that they stop the funny business , and that they make laws that make sense .
they are all a bunch of idiots .
they break the laws more than they obey or make them it seems .
good grief .
some cant get credit cards , some beat their wives , some ran businesses into the ground .
is this idiocy to you ?
it sure is to me .
there is more , some were charged with all sorts of other crimes .
some were charged with dui like george bush , who i have to take aim at here .
man if ever i saw a man who was a fool it was him .
clear your schedule , because you will read a long time before i am done with him .
he claims he loves jesus , yet he goes off to fight a war that has bad consequences for everyone involved .
jesus didnt like war or violence , and this man shouldnt either .
he was also caught doing dui .
what devoutly religious person have you ever seen caught dui ?
the dalai lama ?
buddha ?
muhammed ?
it is funny for the last two being mentioned because buddha does not like material wealth , and muhammed lived before cars were invented .
i am willing to venture the dalai lama has no use for cars either and they probably didnt drink unless it was necessary .
what a fool george bush is , i would not have the man represent christianity or the usa if it were up to me .
heck , i wouldnt have him represent anything based on the simple fact that the man is a fool .
as it is , he runs the country , but after 2008 he will have to go thankfully .
the country cant handle more of his idiocy , its just unthinkable .
its irresponsible even .
but whos worse is well i dont know .
i should give this guy his own chapter , but that would not be enough .
well now for reasons that i classify him as a fool .
first off , he has plunged america into debt that is possibly unprecedented .
the war is the most costly thing imaginable , in terms of human life and also money , materials , etc .
the last i saw was that it was 87 billion and this was years ago .
second , iraq had no plans to nuke america .
they had no mass destruction weapons or chemical weapons .
for those of you who read this and support bush , he lied to you , he lied to everyone , about why we were going to war .
he wasnt protecting america , he wanted vengeance on saddam hussein .
if he was really protecting america he would nuke north korea , who wants to destroy the usa , totally destroy them before they can counter , but nope this man is such a dope that he wasted billions on a country that never posed a threat to the usa .
the judges in america are bad too .
i mean they let serious criminals go free in the streets , while harmless drug dealers go to jail for life .
does this make sense to you ?
it doesnt to me .
we live in a nation where violent criminals have more rights than innocent children that they victimize , where politicians talk a big talk about being tough on crime , but yet crime goes unchecked because the conditions that cause it are unchecked .
in fact , its the punitive nature of these programs that cause crime in the first place .
think about it criminals socialize with other criminals , learn from them , become friends with them .
they dont have the opportunity to turn their lives around , even if they want to which they wont .
this is what our government does , basically saying if you do this wrong thing youre out of luck for life .
the last chapter is chapter 18 , damn it all .
this is where i say damn it all .
im sick of all these fools dragging normal decent people into their ring of idiocy .
it is like they recruit people who are otherwise normal and intelligent , to be stupid .
it is because of them that dave has lost a lot of temper , and also his hair .
he told me dont talk to those people joe theyre stupid !
theyll make you stupid too .
i know they could , but i need to try for the book i tell him .
this part includes the guys who kept chasing dave even though they eventually mellowed out .
dave was like damn it all because of their antics .
every time he sees them , he says damn it all you guys need a new hobby .
what made me say damn it all was that those guys broke into his house and tried to get me .
they tried to get me to act like them too .
i guess they thought if i was not going to be gay i would be an idiot .
dave really got pissed then , and said look you two homos stop bothering me and my friends before i get mad .
so he says damn them they really get on my nerves .
this part also includes the guy who dropped his suitcase .
we were laughing , haha thats funny but then we were saying damn it all , what kind of example is this guy setting for the kids ?
he has kids and he is acting like this .
his kids imitate him by putting fake suitcases in the toilet each day i bet .
they didnt know about his problems yet , but what if they copied him ?
we would have a nation full of idiots dave laments sadly .
i agree and say damn it all dave , we are now on a mission , to exterminate all idiocy in the united states , and the world .
this is so that our fair land is no longer contaminated by idiots .
our mission begins now so please buy this book , i have a lot of traveling to do and a movie to go along with the book .
dave says yes , we will make it so our country is not full of stupid people who do stupid things like stick their hands in the toilet and get stuck , or burn down firehouses .
we wont have a country full of people who lose jobs due to getting lost for 2 weeks , or flunk out of college because they dont want to take a test , and skip out on it .
people will realize their idiocy has consequences , even though it is hilarious .
stupidity can indeed be a crime in some cases , and we need to teach our kids that so they end up not in jail , or being stupid .
at this point , i would like to say your all a bunch of fools , those of you who didnt buy this book or at least read some of it .
for those of you who did at least look at it , i hope you found something entertaining in here .
this is a fictional book for the most part .
what is real well like i said before , decide that for yourself .
in some cases i did some stuff , dave did some stuff , and in others none of it happened .
in a lot of cases i said damn it all though because the real incidents were just so dumb it hurts to think about .
its almost enough to make a person cry .
i mean damn it all , there are politicians so dumb they cant keep the laws they helped pass .
it is madness .
they make , then violate their own laws .
lawmen should not become lawless at least in my opinion .
i mean they are supposed to be an example to us , but this is possibly why people cant stay out of trouble , because of the politicians hypocrisy .
and then theres the judges , damn they made a pig a mans legal guardian .
only in america , a land infested with fools could this happen .
seriously , i dont know how things like this got started , but anyone with any brains should agree that it has to stop .
our country is the laughing stock of the entire world , and if its not , then the rest of the world is worse off .
in all seriousness , i dont think the rest of the world is worse off , and we may be doomed to a country full of idiots .
dont believe me , just watch the commercials on tv which are a major cause of this .
for example , there was a nestle crunch commercial in which some guy goes to jail .
someone did that .
damn it all they didnt need to do that .
and i devoted a chapter to the guy who got kicked by a mule .
damn it all why do people do this ?
they want to be like the stars they see on tv .
people always want to be like some other fool who has more money or fame .
damn it all , we need to stop this because this is why people cant do good in school , this is why people drop out of high school and dream of being in music with no job skills .
its why people party too much and dont go to classes in college or just finish high school and work at taco bell .
i mean scratch that , people drop out of high school and work at taco bell twelve hours a day in a lot of cases .
some never get out of that , some do .
what we need is someone or something to let people know , wake up , take your life more seriously than to throw it away .
i mean come on how can someone laugh when they found out theyre going to jail prison actually , and yes there is a huge difference .
again this is a public service announcement to those who are considering dropping out , or saying that they arent smart enough to do something good .
dont do it , at least give it your best .
dont be the suitcase guy , or the party guy doing the walk of shame or bret , who ended up homeless , having children , and drinking problems , as well as stalkers in new york and florida .
i think they were in both states .
dont be the guy who had to be in pig custody , or his father who shocked himself with a fork in a toaster .
dont be the guy who dropped 500 dollars in the toilet , or pasta guy who dropped out of college .
dont be the old person who kissed people with crap infested dentures , or like the people you see on tv , congress , the courts or even the president of the usa .
dont even be like the guy who i saw going to jail and being happy about it .
dont be like the gay guys at kfc be gay if you are , but pda is off limits for straight people too , or the guy who looks at wee ooo wee ooo , the other perverts , well maybe you can be like fred the old man , not the other perverts though .
dont be like the idiots that dropped out of their finals then flunked out of college .
finally dont be like the two guys who bugged dave .
all of these people are fools !
there are plenty of examples here , and i am sure you can make up your own .
finally , dont be a fool enough to be a dropout who drinks and has sex recklessly , you know who you are when i say this , dont do it , you have another chance , so use it well .
some dont get that .
and finally , dont be like the fools you hear on the radio .
hearing afroman talk about sex and drugs doesnt mean you can drink and drive , or smoke and fly , fuck left and right , and not pay for it big time .
well maybe you can fuck left and right and be ok , but why chance it ?
this is why we have welfare people who cant get jobs , have no homes , go to jail for real not in commercials because they imitate the fools on radio and tv , who make you think killing , robbing , and beating on people is funny or whatever .
they dont show you how they get arrested get v.d .
sexually transmitted disease for the illiterate fools get shot or whatever .
tv just shows how cool they look doing the stuff that makes them fools .
please help me and dave make the world a more educated place so that we dont have reason to be like damn college fools , theyre idiots .
oh and one more thing , dont be the guy who got death by tree .
the poor guy was never found or supposedly so .
damn it all people , need to relearn common sense , it should be a high school and college course that people have to learn and apply , not stupid exams like the fcat or hsct .
i mean these are pointless , they dont prove high school students are smart , theyre probably not more so than people who flunked the test chapter 19 my girlfriend leah leah gets her own chapter .
shes with me , so that automatically gets her a chapter in the book , just kidding .
ill probably give her another chapter if she wants .
my girlfriend has also gone near a giant fire with a tank of gasoline .
the fumes caught and it flared up at her .
she was perfectly all right though , she actually enjoyed it .
she stepped on a rake to see if it worked like in the cartoons .
ok , im going to recount things weve done together that are not fool related things .
we have had 9 great months together .
she got me involved in horror club , which she goes to in order to spend time with me .
we went on a date to picklefish , and we argued about me paying .
not that i had to , she argued against me paying .
some women are weird .
i insisted , and we went to watch movies at my house afterwards .
valentines day was a good day .
i decided to get leah a cookie cake .
it was funny , i dont think she was ever happier than when i gave that to her .
i put icing lipstick on her and kissed it off .
the next date was months later and we went to get chinese food .
i insisted on acting like i was on a 2nd date .
leah said not to , but i insisted .
eventually , she said she liked it .
our next date is next friday , and i wonder how that will go .
chapter 20 the epilogue my final chapter is the ending to this story .
dave ends up getting through doctoral school in mechanical engineering at fau .
he has sex with a ton of women from the clubs .
he marries a woman from his country and has a son .
he founds his own engineering company and becomes rich .
i end up becoming a rock star after finishing my law degree at columbia university and suing arista records .
i sued for a recording contract of 3 years and 100,000,000 dollars .
as i walk out of the court room after winning my lawsuit , i notice a man run in front of a bus and get hit .
he is not hurt , but then i see dan and his son , and they both yell , 'fool ! ! ! '
i get to rock .
i meet leah , as per the previous chapter , and end up spending all my time with her .
bret ends up going back to ny and becoming a rock star as well .
he tours with the electric dudes , but eventually ends up as lead guitarist for shattered soul , my band .
the other members of my band include tim weaver , drummer , travis williams , back up guitarist , and leah thibodeaux , bassist .
i sing .
freds ending is less clear , i dont know whether he goes back with hally or his current love .
i dont know if he goes to texas or not .
its up in the air and up to him .
suitcase guys fate is he remains a fool .
the drunken college students end up married to each other , then divorced .
the doctor who got high so often drove off a cliff because he got high behind the wheel .
tony is still out there being himself .
however , me and dave have the last laugh , and we triumph over fools .
falling girl with broken wings , book one j bennett copyright 2012 by j bennett all rights reserved smashwords edition isbn 978 0 9840048 0 5 this is a work of fiction .
names , characters , places and incidents either are the product of the authors imagination or are used fictitiously , and any resemblance to actual persons , living or dead , business establishments , events or locales is entirely coincidental .
the publisher does not have any control over and does not assume any responsibility for third party websites or their content cover design by paradigmgd.com prologue i may be a monster .
im not exactly sure yet .
a strange thing to think , but i wonder if you can have something evil inside of you without being evil yourself .
perhaps you can think about doing something terriblemaybe even want it so bad the pen in your trembling hand keeps bleeding ink through the pagebut if you dont actually commit the act , then youre not really guilty .
at least this is what i have to believe .
especially now , right now , because the hunger has me .
all of me .
the hunger is a lot of things .
sometimes it is everything .
other times i imagine it as a throbbing , living monster inside me , and if this were true , id take the closest dull letter opener and see about getting that fucker out .
my brothers think of it as a virus , and i get to play the part of plague victim except that instead of black , pus filled boils , i present other vestiges of the disease .
gifts , my father called them , but then again , he doesnt consider it a virus at all .
i will kill him someday .
i have to believe this too .
mostly , the hunger is a song with a secret melody only i can hear .
the music clings to each breath of wind and the calm in between .
it hums along the spongy corridors of my brain , each note jumping from one stalled synapse to the next .
at night , when the sun can not feed me its thin soup , the song grows loud as thunder captured in my bones .
destruction concealed beneath the beauty .
such craven release .
im not thinking clearly at all .
the night holds fast , and the song lulls me with sweet siren notes .
gabe is asleep in the other bed .
i know the rhythms of his energy so well , that soft aqua color like postcard oceans that is his alone .
it hums in gentle cadence with his dreams .
tarren is awake in the next room .
his energy is all jumpy and exhausted , muddled blue with too much brown mixed in .
the nightmares often keep him up .
there are others in the motel with different auras .
some spiking as they make love , others a weak beat in sleep .
the song is calling to me , and even my terror is muting in its wake .
i could almost forget my own name .
maya .
my name is maya , and his name was ryan .
on the worst nightsthe ones where i dont know if i can make it to dawni think of ryan and the way he would always only half smile .
i close my eyes and picture just the way his mouth quirked up to the right as if he were afraid to unleash the full tide of his happiness .
ryan had a glorious smile , like the sun hitting something just right and bringing out colors you hadnt even known were there .
i would spend nights awake conjuring intricate plans to break open his lips .
when he did smile , it filled me with hot bubbles and vanilla scents .
tarren thinks that i am gone .
an angel .
i am changedshattered and glued back together crookedbut i can not be all gone , because i still smell vanilla when i think of ryan .
ryan .
ryan .
ryan .
please .
oh , ryan .
dont let me kill my brother .
at least not the one i like .
gabe shifts in his sleep .
his energy flickers , and i start .
for a moment i am lost in the hunger .
i dont know how ive come to be standing over his bed why i can think of nothing but the energy , so bright , leaping off his healthy body .
gabe doesnt understand about the hunger .
tarren knows better , but even he does not recognize the precariousness of my grip .
the grip ive just lost .
he should have killed me .
and right now i wish he had .
hot hands .
skin peeling back .
monster hands reaching out .
the song plays .
i am gone .
part 1 chapter 1 a few weeks and a very different life ago .
ryan .
chapped lips .
warm breath .
bringer of little chills all up and down me , mostly when he isnt trying .
the heat hasnt broken yet , and the leaves wilt beneath the suns inerrant gaze .
i lug my shoulder bag down the universitys cobbled pathway toward the student union building .
i am proud of the purple bangs combed in a slant across my face .
its no matter that the color didnt manifest quite right .
its the principle of the thing .
this is me rebelling , all badass with black eyeliner scrawled along each lid .
and i only stabbed myself in the eye once this morning .
a vast improvement .
this is me coming alive .
finally .
it didnt start with ryan , but i tell him it did .
it was coming to school , discovering entire classrooms of people ready to defend twain or melville to the death .
willing to jump in front of buses for orwell and vonnegut .
tears flowing for nabokov and tolstoy .
it was finding friends with strange passions and loud laughs .
learning to appreciate my freshman roommate who slept till noon and showed me how to masturbate .
and then , of course , ryan with his ice tea colored skin and beautiful black eyes half hidden beneath his lids .
he isnt my first boyfriend , just the first one who matters .
somehow my constant metaphors and little dramatics only spark amused forbearance .
our apartment together is terrifying , because it doesnt scare me at all .
and avalon .
the realization that its okay to dream .
as soon as ryan gets out of class , well grab lunch before i fry my brains with intermediate latin and shakespeare ii .
hell probably raise his eyebrows like he always does , and the look will say you could always minor in business , you know , just in case .
and i will battle his practicality with my brave , starving artist smile that boldly cries whatever it takes , because i dont actually know what it takes , and i still have two more years to squelch this inconvenient little fact .
i sweat .
summer in connecticut seems determined to go out muggy and hot .
then i become aware of an unknown figure leaning against a tree .
his pale blue eyes follow my progress down the path .
i wouldnt have noticed him except that hes wearing a long sleeved shirt and jeans on this brutally hot day .
he is a striking man , tall and pale with thick , dark hair cut short .
his face is all cheekbones and smooth planes .
he could have been a track star or some arrogant frat boy .
but he isnt any of these .
not with those cold eyes couched in such a quiet , intense face .
his mouth grows tighter when our eyes meet , and he is most definitely staring at me , until he isnt .
when i look again he is walking away , his body moving in fluid strides as he turns down another path and disappears .
his face is familiar , but i cant place it .
surely i would have noticed him if he were in one of my classes .
there are always fewer male students , and then , of course , that scar would distinguish him anywhere .
ryan and i sit down for lunch .
i eat something with no realization of how important this particular meal is or how much i will struggle in the near future to relive every chew , every burst of flavor simmering on my tongue .
i cant remember what ryan is wearing , so i give him his favorite gray t shirt with the faded black spade in the middle and some washed out jeans .
his hair is carefully disarrayed in black spikes .
i am cultivating these sparks of rebellion inside him , trying to singe away all the good manners , adult seriousness and intense study habits his typically asian parents have spent a lifetime layering around his soul .
the current excavation for a sense of humor is slow but promising .
ryan remembers the man with the scar .
he was outside last night when we went to the improv show , ryan says .
i remember , because i thought he would be a good enforcer for avalon .
i didnt know we needed enforcers , i reply .
of course we will .
everyone will want to come .
theyll try to sneak in every which way , but we have standards .
high standards , i chime in .
really high standards , ryan continues , so , well need enforcers who can patrol all around the island .
the man , he looked , i dont know .
ryan pauses to think .
it is very important for him to find just the right word .
this can lead to long stretches of silence where i enjoy how his eyes seem to be looking backwards into his own mind and how he unconsciously curls in his bottom lip .
dangerous , he says , nodding with satisfaction .
we eat .
we are full .
we are happy .
i feel entitled to a good life , though i have done nothing to earn it .
that night i work on a short story for my creative writing class .
its about a little girl who lives in an orphanage and discovers a magic crayon .
her drawings come to life on the page , so she creates herself a perfect family .
a brother , a sister , a mother and a father who all welcome and love her .
she gives her family castles and jewels and grand adventureseverything she can never have for herself .
the little girl draws and draws and draws , but as soon as the last little nub of wax crumbles into her palm , her family and all her creations lose their life and revert to flat drawings upon the page .
the story sucks .
the sentences are too bloated with adjectives , because i cant push the action ahead .
its the girl .
shes dull .
too sweet and sad .
i need to paint her heart a darker hue .
i close the lid of my laptop .
there are two things i do for inspiration .
the first is to touch my books .
if the walls of my apartment suddenly dissolved , the books would keep everything securely fastened in place .
they crawl up and down the walls like a wild , square leafed plant pushing its shoots through rows of shelves , under tables , across my desk and , for the most special , standing upright on my dresser embraced between shakespeare bust bookends .
i walk over and touch their spines , and as i read their titles , the stories come alive in quick whispers .
ryan looks up from his textbook , sees that my laptop is closed and knows that he now has permission to speak .
he uses his newly freed voice to announce that he is hungry .
we know a mexican place run by real mexicans just outside of campus .
it serves plates full of greasy meat wrapped in warm tortillas for a couple dollars .
come on pixie girl , ryan says closing his big , boring and utterly practical textbook .
before we leave , i visit avalon .
this is the second thing i do for inspiration .
ryan is unsure of his drawing skills , but he is brilliant .
his hand brought the island to life .
at the center lies a huge park , and wide rings of industry , modest homes and learning institutions ripple outward .
electric trains hum on their tracks , and sun dappled trees shade the paths that lead along the open corridors of the city .
i walk on the paths of avalon breathing in the ocean scented air .
other citizens jog by or ride past me on bicycles .
they are doctors , teachers , janitors and construction workers .
smart and average .
funny and dull .
all are warm , honest and hardworking .
its all very foolish .
ryan and i are in complete agreement on this point .
avalon is the product of a reckless idealism that can only blossom in our nave university seclusion .
this is why we have agreed to search the atlas for a suitable island only as a hypothetical query meant to challenge our geographical aptitudes .
itll be here when you get back , ryan says behind me .
i grab my purse and turn in time to catch the last vestige of a half smile leaving his lips .
i will find my orphan girl .
i will make her real .
but first , food .
im starving .
we walk through campus , and the sounds of life flow around us bass beats from the dorm windows , a scream far away that pitches into giggles and cheers , our own steps treading the pavement .
a club meeting ends and students issue from the building in front of us .
a figure brushes my shoulder .
he murmurs an apology , and i only catch a glimpse of wavy hair tamed with a ball cap .
i sneak my hand in the back pocket of ryans jeans and delight in how he turns shy at it .
he stutters something about the stars , and i look up .
they are all over the sky , and i ponder if such glitter could really be only balls of gas .
perhaps they catch the secrets of our hearts and hold them for us until we are brave enough to give them voice .
ryan laughs at this thought when i say it out loud .
you are a strange one , pixie girl .
we cant both be boring , i tease back and bite his nose .
his lips find mine .
it is a quick , off centered peck because my hand is still caught in his pocket as he turns toward me .
ryan pulls back .
his eyes are wet , shining onyx hiding behind his long bangs .
ive won a full smile from him , fading quick , stirring those chills inside me .
then we both become aware of a figure blocking the path in front of us .
the man keeps outside the pool of light beneath the streetlamp .
at first i think he might be a college professor or a lost parent , but no .
he is staring too intently , and his legs are planted wide across the cobblestones as if he means to be exactly where he is .
in the fading glow of twilight , i observe that his is a delicate face , bearing a small nose , thin lips , a high forehead and a hairline just beginning to recede along a widows peak .
blue eyes move up my body and pause at my face .
his wispy eyebrows are blonde like his hair , and they reach for each other as he comes to a conclusion .
a pale fuzz of light blurs the lines of his fingers .
he takes a step towards us , and this is when i recognize the danger .
its the glowing hands of course it is but also the eyes and how quickly he moves .
that single step seems to have propelled him across the divide between us .
ryan must understand this too , because i feel his hand leave the small of my back as he moves in front of me .
i say uh , lets and ryan says is there , and neither of us finishes our sentence .
the man puts his hand , palm forward , against ryans chest .
i can only see the left side of ryans face .
his eye grows round , the pupil shrinking to a pinprick in the brightening glow of the strangers hand .
his mouth drops open , and what comes out is a choked , ugh , ugh , ugh .
he twitches violently , my darling .
the stranger steps back , and ryan collapses to the ground .
some part of him cracks hard against the pavement .
i scream .
chapter 2 i keep screaming .
it might be ryans name or something coherent like what are you doing to him ?
but i dont think so .
there are not words for this , only a strange tearing that is also emptiness , because my mind is trying to escape my body lest i comprehend what has just happened .
my boyfriend , he who kisses my shoulders and took me down the quiet pathways of avalon , is suddenly still , his eyes glass and half lidded , a dark stain growing across his crotch .
the stranger is looking at me .
he is not so tall , but i can tell that he is a powerful person .
a person who is not kicked around , who wins fights before they even start .
his voice is quiet and calm , each word crisp like water drops hitting my cheeks .
we are leaving now .
he opens his arms , and i dont understand .
i am crouched over ryan , gripping his shirt .
i am also watching the strangers glowing hands , wondering if it hurts .
something is coming off him .
i feel the vibrations of it hook around me and tug me upright .
i can not see what it is , but i can feel it , an invisible string that pulls me toward the stranger .
i start to slide across the cobblestones .
no .
i clutch ryans shirt , and his body drags with me .
no , no , no .
the invisible force pries my fingers loose one by one .
no , no , no , i moan .
ryan drops back , and i spin into the strangers arms .
i dont understand how this has happened , but i know it is the strangers doing , his invisible string .
his hook .
the stranger embraces me .
i feel his breath cut across my ear , and my stomach wrenches .
i vomit across his shirt and down my own .
a low gurgled moan comes out of my throat .
unbecoming behavior for a daughter of mine .
he wraps his arms around my waist .
we lift up into the sky .
running steps .
someone is below us .
it is the boy with the baseball cap and curly hair .
he pauses at ryans body , looks around .
then up .
by the time he swings the gun around for a shot , the stranger and i are already rocketing away through the night .
the stars are streaks , and the boy is a shrinking dot beneath the lamp light .
i hear his voice echoing in the distance .
shit !
chapter 3 we fly .
the air is cool , and the strangers arms are strong .
my mind flees into a dark recess .
i close my eyes and feel the tears flicking off my chin into the dark .
my senses short circuit so that everything is bleary except for random bits that stand out like vivid darts of pain dark row of storage units coming nearer as we descend , minor jolt of landing , sound of the strangers shoes crunching beneath the gravel , sweep of headlights strafing the rows of closed metal doors .
my mind clutches to the light , hoping that it is a police car , but there are no sirens , and the headlights jump away .
a short while later i am lying on a concrete floor inside one of the storage units .
i pull my legs into my chest .
my lumpy purse is under my hip , its strap still twisted around my arm .
the metal door shuts with a bang like a gunshot or like panic or like gruesome finality .
the man lurks somewhere in the dark , and a question hiccups in my mind is he a man at all or something else entirely ?
a light flickers on , and i tuck my head to my chest to protect my eyes .
his voice comes from above .
inelegant accommodations i know , but i couldnt rely on your composure .
a wail crawls up my throat .
did you kill him ?
did you kill him ?
my breath is gone .
did you i huff , did you my voice cracks and my heart cracks and my mind cracks too .
i stare at the strangers shoes between my tears .
they are expensive looking loafers , the kind with tassels on top that i would have mocked in the vast distant past when i didnt know that monsters wore tasseled loafers .
the shoes walk away .
this is when i should try an escape , when i should scream for help or otherwise try to save myself .
i wrap my arms around my body and weep .
i am not brave .
not now , curled up on the floor sobbing and retching and not caring if the stranger glows me to death with his hands .
he does not glow me to death .
rather , he crouches down near me , and his eyes probe my face .
it is a shame , he says , that they are always born human .
he extends his hand , and i realize that weve come to the end .
i am gallant enough to wipe my nose so i dont die with snot bubbling out of my nostrils .
his palm opens to reveal two capsules .
take them , the man says .
i was prepared for such an outburst , disappointing as it is .
his voice is still soft , still calm with no inflection of emotion .
he has changed into a navy polo shirt with white buttons at the collar .
i wipe my nose again .
in a swift motion , he grabs my neck and claps his hand over my mouth .
i try to scream and suck down the pills instead .
he picks me up and places me on a small cot in the center of the space .
the air is warm and heavy with the scent of old things and lost memories .
for the first time , i look around .
a naked light bulb sways above us , and a duffle bag and folded towel sit next to the cot .
lying on the towel is a long needle with a wicked , thick point .
there is nothing else inside the storage unit except for him and me , and fear enough to drown even noahs blessed ark .
the man turns from me to reach into the duffle bag .
i lurch forward on my shaky legs and stumble toward the door .
i dont even realize what im doing until im doing it .
the stranger is already there , impossibly , standing in front of me .
i never even heard a sound .
he holds a bottle of water in his hand , which he extends to me .
yes , you should have tried .
thats good .
now , lay down on the cot .
the light is beginning to change color , and this is funny .
the smells are whispering to me , but i cant understand what they are saying .
i realize that ryan isnt dead .
he was pretending , and after i left he got up and went back to the apartment .
this is strange , because ryan never plays jokes on me .
i am lying prone on the cot .
my shirt is off .
i am scared and confused and giggly .
i turn my head to watch the strangers hands as he moves toward me .
i think , rape , rape , rape , cape , escape and wonder how he will fit all of me into his duffle bag if thats the way he chooses to go .
the stranger kneels down next to me .
his fingers brush the hair away from my neck and travel between my shoulder blades .
i flinch , and he catches my eyes , shakes his head .
his face is composed in concentration , searching .
i can tell the exact moment he finds what hes looking for .
his eyebrows pinch together and then relax .
the fingers make a soft circle behind my right shoulder and then take another lap .
i know what hes found the tea colored birthmark that i hardly ever notice until i do , and then i cant stop staring at it in the mirror .
maya .
i knew they would find you .
the words are whispered .
satisfied .
he stands up .
the combination of meticulously combed hair , high forehead and expensive shirt gives him a casual air of arrogance and luxury .
i could almost believe he was on his way to the marina to take the yacht for a spin or down to the club for a round of golf before lunch .
except that hes going to kill me instead , though what he says is , i am going to give you a gift something precious that my father gave to me .
i am going to take away all your weaknesses .
its okay to be weak , i say for no reason .
the man frowns .
this is the first emotion hes allowed across his face .
no .
the weak are , he pauses here , eyes intent to make sure im listening .
the word comes out of his mouth softly but with obvious pleasure , food .
the man picks up the needle from the towel .
it shimmers like a rainbow in the light and seems to grow in his hand .
the change shouldnt be this difficult .
there was an easier way , once .
a process that bestowed much more power , but that knowledge has been destroyed .
the man looks down at me .
ive had to start all over , but i will find it .
for now though , bone marrow will suffice .
three rounds of the needle .
it will be painful for us both .
try to be good about it .
why are you doing this ?
i manage .
it is all absurd , a strange dream where the colors on the walls are strangling each other .
where im floating away through the ceiling but still here lying on the cot .
a dog yips far away .
you do not understand this now , but i am making a great sacrifice for you , the man says .
he lifts up his shirt and slowly inserts the needle into his hip .
he closes his eyes , and i hear the air dragging sharply into his lungs as he pulls back the stopper .
no , no , i dont want to , i push myself up .
panic squeezes in my chest with both hands and lots of leverage .
the colors are running all around the room .
maybe hell slip on them , but he doesnt .
even as i struggle up , he is next to me , pushing me down , hard .
his hand grips my neck , and he digs a knee into my back .
he must be made of solid steel , for my desperate thrashing doesnt move him at all .
please dont , i say or try to say .
taste of tears in my mouth .
the needle plunges into my spine .
he was right about the pain .
chapter 4 a long ragged scream tears out of me , and its echo jumps around the room like a mad animal i have unleashed .
as soon as the strangers weight lifts off me , i curl up and listen to the waves of pain lapping through my body .
youll rest for half an hour , and then well do the second shot , he says .
it will be worse .
your body will try to fight the change .
i cant look at him .
i cant do anything , because suddenly my spine is ringing like a gong , and the vibration is growing .
once the change is complete , you will require sustenance , the man says .
he lowers himself against the far wall .
there are two boys who havecaused me trouble in the past .
i will bring them here .
you will nourish yourself from their lives , and it shall be an appropriate start to your new existence .
by the time the stranger prepares the second shot , my body is on fire .
the flames lick up my spine , shooting hot coals through my arms and legs .
sweat pours out of my skin , and i am shaking so hard i can hear my own teeth clattering against each other .
crying is too painful , so i lay in silence , closing my eyes and trying to envision avalon .
youre killing me , i whisper to the man as he pulls the needle from his hip .
no .
im breaking you down , stripping away your weakness and building you back up into something better .
he turns his head , and a smile touches his lips .
im making you my daughter .
im nobodys daughter , i say , which is only sort of true .
i find it strange that i conjure such a line .
it seems like a brave thing to say , or at least defiant .
but i am exhausted and delusional and weak as a broken winged bumble bee , so maybe i dont say anything at all .
maybe i just want to believe i am capable of some grit .
its so hard to think at all right now .
i scream again as the needle plunges into my back .
the sound is raw , spiraling up into a squeal that cracks and dies in my throat .
i fall back onto the cot , and the scream has taken away my last reserves .
already , the fire is growing into an inferno that snakes up the back of my neck and into my brain .
he has put acid inside of me or drain cleaner or bleach .
i am dying .
one more and it will be done , the stranger says .
his voice sounds hoarse .
the blur that must be him sinks against the wall and lays his head back .
i fall into a stupor .
this is what i remember next a sound screeching through my mind , bleary voices .
a figure moves in front of me .
it looks like a man , but the lines of his body are wavering .
two explosions so loud that i cover my ears .
voices rising .
the figure in front of me is gone .
shadows waver under the light .
something glints .
strange animal grunts .
another explosion .
a scream .
a crash .
quiet .
quiet .
voices .
quiet .
eyes .
big and golden brown like honey .
elf eyes above a sharp nose and triangle mouth .
a ball cap on his head with wavy hair spilling out .
oh fuck .
he lays a hand on my forehead , then pushes back the wet strands of hair off my face .
we are looking at each other , and i realize i should say something , but i cant think .
i am watching the strange blue light glowing around his face .
a song is humming softly .
i dont know where the music is coming from , but the melody is hypnotic .
strange , mystical music telling me to touch the light .
were too late , another voice says .
no , maybe not .
the elfs voice wavers in and out with the pain .
need you to concentrate ... .how many shots ?
i watch the light around the elfs face .
the song is growing louder .
my fingers twitch .
i cant lift my hand .
maya , the needle .
one , i say .
one left .
one ?
his expression relaxes .
good .
thats goodwork with that .
right ?
he turns his head up .
we have to go , the other voice says .
chapter 5 i cant stop thinking about that night the night i changed , the night my world stopped spinning and drifted off into the dark .
i plunge into those messy , fractured memories again and again , trying to recapture the simple joy of that lunch with ryan , the warmth of his lips opening against mine under the stars .
oh , to be full again .
upon my request , both gabe and tarren have described the fight in the storage unit .
each of my vigilante custodians has their own method of evasion .
gabes version of events it was a dark and stormy night ...
yes it was .
whos telling the story ?
girl who was unconscious for most of it or the guy who saved the day ?
well , if youd be so kind , i will tell you exactly how i did it .
capiche ?
good .
so , it was a dark and stormy night .
the fog rolled in thick and heavy as two shadowed figures cut through the night .
they warily approached a storage unit , guns glinting at their sides .
this is it , tarren whispered , and both boys squared their shoulders .
somewhere far off a coyote howled to the moon .
its show time , gabe growled .
the heroic brothers heaved up the storage unit door .
the epic showdown had begun .
the angel jumped up , rage alighting in his eyes .
you two !
he snarled .
its been a long time coming , said gabe .
his muscles bulged beneath his shirt .
were here to send you back to hell where you belong , tarren said , his eyes glinting dangerously .
yeah , course he said that .
tarren is full of witty one liners .
he spends hours every night thinking them up and writing them down in his diary no , ive seen it .
its pink and got little flowers all over it .
oh , now thats just mean .
wait , youre making me laugh , i got ta keep going .
the story .
stop interrupting .
im losing my place .
the angel moved swiftly in front of his prey , crouching low , ready for a fight .
he was weakened but still deadly .
the brothers were ready too .
theyve been ready their whole lives .
this ends here , tonight !
gabe cried .
the angel was quick , moving like a blur .
both heroes raised their weapons and fired .
he cried in pain as the bullets tore through his flesh , but that didnt slow him down .
the fight was totally epic .
the angel was ten times stronger than an elephant and twenty times faster than a cheetah , but the brothers held their own using matrix like skills .
blood flowed .
ribs were cracked .
tarren was knocked back , so the incredibly handsome younger brother had to hold off the creature on his own using bad ass chuck norris fighting action .
fists and legs flew at the speed of light .
using roundhouse and 180 spin kicks of death , gabe knocked the creature down , stunning him .
is that the best youve got ?
he asked with his trademark smirk .
he totally had the situation under control and was about to waste the angel , when tarren shoved him out of the way in a fit of jealousy .
no , let me tell itof course hes going to say that .
maybe i wanted to be up against the wall .
you ever think of that ?
maybe i had em right where i wanted him .
so if youre done telling me my own story uh huh , thats what i thought .
so tarren shoved his unbelievably talented brother out of the way , because he wanted to finish off the angel himself .
they did some tepid fighting which involved absolutely no roundhouse or 180 spin kicks of death .
at some point tarren got ahold of his gun and blew off the angels hand .
it was meat confetti .
ranger t hollow points , got ta love em .
the angel howled in pain , clutching his mangled stump as blood gushed all over the place .
it was pretty sick .
this isnt over , the angel cried as he escaped into the night .
of course gabe totally could have killed the angel and ended everything , but he realized that petty vengeance wasnt as important as rescuing the poor girl the creature had kidnapped .
he went to her and realized with shock that she had been infected .
he took her fevered body in his chiseled arms and cried out a soul wrenching noooooooooooo !
were too late , said tarren , instantly giving up hope .
gabe refused to believe this .
for you see , this wasnt just any girl .
she was their long lost sister .
as god is my witness i will save you , gabe vowed heroically .
damn it , i will save you !
tarrens version of events we tracked you directly to the storage unit .
the door wasnt locked .
grand was weak .
this was our only chance to finally take him out .
he heard us coming and was ready when we threw open the door .
we both got a round off , but he was moving too fast .
we didnt get a kill shot .
i was knocked back in the fight , and i lost my gun .
grand had gabe pinned to the wall .
his hands were glowing , and i knew he was getting ready to feed .
i tackled grand , and we fought .
he got me on the ground .
i had a second glock strapped to my leg .
he was reaching out to drain me , but i pulled the barrel between us .
the shot took off most of his left hand .
grand figured the odds and fled before i could line up another shot .
he got away .
i failed .
it was clear youd been infected .
i knew what had to be done .
gabe thought there might be a way to help you .
he was already emotionally attached .
i could hear sirens in the distance .
we didnt have time to argue .
thats the only reason i didnt kill you then and there .
no , thats it .
chapter 6 your head , the boy with elf eyes murmurs as he puts me into a car .
then , this is , um , awkward .
he can only get me half in .
i hear his steps moving quickly around the back of the car .
he opens the opposite door and pulls me the rest of the way across the back seat .
thank you , i say .
i want to touch the blue glow around him .
this will soothe the pain inside of me .
not pain .
hunger .
great , gaping hunger .
i am shivering , still sweating .
the strap of my bra has fallen to my elbow .
do we , uh , have a blanket in the trunk or something , tarren ?
get in the car .
i hear sirens .
they sound closer than they could possibly be .
just like i think i can hear the boys heart thudding in his chest , but that cant be real .
yeah , its a warm night .
shell be fine .
the door by my head closes .
i flinch at the sound .
after a moment it opens again .
seatbelt .
he leans over me , grappling with the buckle under my back .
his heart is a drum .
i hear the whoosh of air in and out of his lungs .
i smell him , the sweat on him , the damp of his clothes .
glowing spirals of blue cloak his body like colored steam .
i must touch the color .
i am moving my arm , dizzy with even this effort but desperate .
he is so close .
my hands grow hot .
something is happening to them .
the skin of my palms is puckering , splitting open .
there we go .
the boy is gone .
the door closes .
i keep reaching up hoping to catch any lingering wisps of the glow .
the skin furls back over my palm , seaming itself up into a dark x across the center .
the car is moving .
every breath smells like blood .
im giggling like a maniac , but only in my head .
i shove my hands under my body , because this will somehow help .
im still burning to death , by the way .
the driver whispers to himself , we had him .
we had him .
the one with the backwards ball cap and elf eyes says , look , we got her that was the whole point .
he turns to look at the driver .
well kill grand some other time .
the driver doesnt say anything , but the color ratchets around him , bright along the edges .
i close my eyes , but i can still feel the skin pulling away from my palms again .
your eye is swelling up , the passenger says .
im fine .
you ?
ankle .
just twisted it a little .
ill throw some ice on it whenever .
no cops behind us .
we need to switch our plates when we stop .
ditch the guns too .
we left shell casings .
damn shame , though .
the passenger pulls a gun from his belt , hefts it in his hand .
my guy went through a lot of trouble to get this baby .
not that you care .
anyone can get glocks .
put that away , the driver says .
well cover cleanup later .
the passenger turns to stare at me .
i watch the delicate shades of blue pulse around him .
we should probably get her a shirt , he says .
the driver doesnt reply , but his eyes flick up to the rearview mirror when we stop at a light .
after a while , the elf turns to the driver and asks , is there any way this isnt going to totally ruin her life ?
i cant stop shivering .
my body jerks , so that i fall back painfully onto the buckle .
the fire is starting to separate .
theres the part ripping up my bones and evaporating my blood , but there is something entirely different lifting out of the flames .
this is an exquisite hurt , all neural and twitchy .
its hunger , but not like a hunger ive ever known before .
this hunger is cutting me wide open with a song , carving out its own channels in my brain and snuffing out the human parts of me .
i think that i am going to die , and i dont want to , except that i do , because ryan is dead , at least i think he is , but maybe he isnt , because he cant be .
he cant be .
the hum of the car seems so loud , and the passing street lamps blaze like sudden flares in the night .
we leave behind the highway and then the street lamps and then the other cars .
i cry , but these are silent tears , hot by the time they tip over my chin .
we sail through the night for a long while , and the tears eventually dwindle .
all that is left is the hunger growing louder and louder in my bones .
eventually , the car stops .
the driver gets out .
the door by my head is wrenched open .
he grabs my shoulders and pulls .
the seatbelt digs into my hips , and i cry out .
damn , he mutters .
he grabs my wrists in one hand and pins them against the back of the seat while he leans over and undoes my buckle .
the passenger side door opens .
jesus , where are we ?
you got ta piss ?
the driver pulls me roughly out of the car .
i hit the ground and curl my legs into my chest .
there is only the hunger and the pain and the shadow of ryan lingering behind the trees that edge each side of the road .
the driver pulls a gun from his waistband , and i am not afraid .
the amber glow is so bright around him that it looks like some sort of unnatural fire .
everything is fire .
i stare at the scar running along his jaw and recognize him .
the enforcer of avalon levels his gun at me .
the blood stains across his shirt and jeans are already turning dark .
in his eyes i see a cold that i would never be clich enough to call arctic except that i cant think of anything else .
theres a lot of blood on him .
tarren , no !
pant legs intrude into my visual field .
shes infected .
we have to do it now while shes weak .
one shot tarren .
she only got one shot .
shes likea hybrid or something .
we cant take the chance .
yes we can , because , uh , because you could use her in your research .
she could be , like , the key .
the hybrids are always the key in , you know , stuff .
well take the body back to los lab .
cold hearted bastard !
shes blood .
his blood .
our blood .
shes our blood tarren .
the elf boys voice has gone harsh .
shes our family , and you can pretend that you dont care about anything anymore , that youre suffering the weight of the entire world on your shoulders , but youre just afraid .
fuck you .
im not moving .
you done ?
the gun doesnt move .
yeah .
the elf takes a shaky breath .
i mean no !
she could help us .
think about it .
shell get strong .
shell get fast .
she can fight with us .
we can and the hunger ?
my protector turns and looks at me .
i can hear how fast his heart is beating , the faint rush of blood as he clenches his fists .
the light around him swells .
so blue with sudden streaks of lavender lashing across .
the song .
they act as if they cant hear the music flowing in hot torrents all around us .
well buy her rabbits , he says finally .
shell lapse and feed on humans .
no , she they always feed on humans .
the enforcers voice echoes into the trees .
he pulls in a deep breath .
you know that .
she is grands daughter .
hell come after her again and by then shell be strong .
ill take care of it .
just get out of my way .
im on fire , i say for no reason .
i lift myself up to my elbows with difficulty .
i dont know which one i want to prevail .
a bullet would be quicker than this slow burn .
no .
the legs in front of me step a little wider .
no , the elf says again .
weve crossed a lot of lines , but im not going to let you cross this one .
she may feed on humans one day , maybe not .
until she does , shes an innocent , and we dont kill innocent people .
not today .
not ever .
she deserves a chance i dont care who her parents are .
if she crosses over , ill kill her myself , but not today .
the enforcer keeps his gun steady .
gabe , he says .
im not moving .
gabe spreads his arms .
if youve got to kill her , then do it , but im sick of this shit .
you kill me first , cause killing innocent people is what bad guys do .
im not a bad guy , and id rather be dead then see you turn into one .
i hold my hands out in front of me and stare at the new dark slits running through my palms .
am i a monster ?
i whisper .
is that what this is ?
no , gabe looks at me over his shoulder .
well , kinda , but were going to help you .
were family .
tarren lowers his gun .
a slow descent .
chapter 7 some time passes at least a few thousand years of us trapped in that blood smelling car .
i try not to think , and the pain makes this easy .
it crowds out ryans face , and the man with his needle poised , and the enforcer with his scar and his gun and his rorschach splattered shirt .
might be cracked , tarrens voice is soft .
dr. lee can bind it .
wouldnt do much good anyway .
come on tarren , hes seen gabes voice cuts out quick .
well , he stutters , just be careful with it .
its the least of our worries .
my spines seizes up , and i bite my lip hard , but not hard enough to stifle a low moan .
gabe twists in the passenger seat .
he clutches the headrest with both hands and peers at me .
im sorry maya , he says , and then he slumps back against his seat .
dont look at me like that , he mutters to tarren .
the boys huddle outside the car , their heads ducked together in whispered argument .
i lean my cheek against the window while the blinking neon light of the motel sign washes over my eyes .
if i concentrate , i can catch their words .
..wont make it through the night unless she feeds .
we have to keep moving .
grand will want her back .
hell track us .
uh , last time i checked he was minus a hand .
i think he might have other things on his mind .
shes in trouble .
weve got to hole up for the night .
go get her something then .
youre better at picking locks .
like hell !
youll blow her brains out as soon as i turn my back .
i wont kill her unless i have to .
promise ?
yes .
on moms grave ?
why do you always say that ?
cause i know youll keep it .
on moms grave .
i know how this looks , gabe , he of the backwards hat , says as he comes round the bed .
you know , with you and the bra , this less than stellar motel room and well , these cuffs , but theyre just a safety precaution .
i lie on the bed , propped sideways against the headboard and squeeze my eyes shut as gabe binds my wrists together behind my back with a plastic tie .
he steps back quickly and lets out a breath .
i am still holding mine .
the melody of hunger is filling up my head .
a thin trickle of blood runs out of my nose , and theres nothing i can do even if i cared .
there are other people near .
i can sense them , the different ebbs and flows of their energies .
i hear a tv chattering in the next room .
upstairs , a woman cries beneath the spray of a shower .
it all blurs together , a loud mess of noise and smells and frantic tugs in my brain that i cant even begin to parse .
gabe is talking , offering a cup of liquid .
it smells rancid .
itll help , he says .
tarren leans against the far wall , arms folded across his chest .
a gun sticks out of his waistband .
am i going to die ?
i ask in a thin little girl voice .
not today .
come on now , drink this .
gabe puts the cup to my lips .
the liquid is rusty on my tongue , but i swallow .
it sits uneasily in my stomach .
keep it down , gabe says .
my stomach clenches , but the nausea passes .
good , gabe smiles .
thats real good .
they all drink water , tarren says .
that was tap water .
ive never seen any of them drink tap water , gabe replies .
he sits on the bed next to me , tips the cup to catch some water on a cloth and then carefully cleans the blood and dried vomit off my face .
i stare at the glow as it rotates on a slow current around his body .
i realize that it is made up of many different delicate , shifting shades of blue .
pale purple filaments blink in and out of existence .
gabe looks me over for a long time , and i focus on his eyes .
they are a warm brown like caramel .
i dig deeper , discovering tiny gold flakes caught up in the caramel mix .
theres mischief in those sparks of gold , and through the fog of pain and the implosion of my universe , i suddenly feel like i know him .
something in his face seems so sad and so real .
he said we were blood , but i dont understand what that means .
he speaks .
look maya , i wish you could know how sorry i am , we both are , that this happened to you .
youre probably freaking out right now .
gabe takes off his cap and runs his fingers through his wavy hair .
it shouldnt be like this .
we shouldve been able to protect you .
he waits , but i am too immolated to answer .
i turn my head to gaze at the headboard , at the initials scratched in the wood .
bj was here look , im running out to get you something thats going to help , gabe continues .
something for your uhthing .
when i get back and youre feeling a little better , well explain everything .
mayathings are going to be different for you , but tarren and i , were going to take care of you .
another pause .
im not sure which one of us he expects to fill the gap .
bj was where ?
here ?
lying against a headboard with his hands cuffed behind his back ?
body on fire ?
boyfriend gone , gone , gone , gone ?
gabe is speaking again .
that thing before with the gun dont worry about that .
tarren wont hurt you , i promise .
i know that probably doesnt mean much , but gabe kneads the visor of his cap .
the glow , his aura , is beautiful , and i think that i can see his pain faint scarlet hues reflected in the shifting colors around him .
... well , its the truth .
god , thats lame .
the last part is a mutter .
gabe waits for something .
he keeps waiting .
finally , he puts his hat back on .
well explain everything .
soon .
he gives tarren a long look before he leaves .
their eyes say something to each other that i can not fathom .
i feel gabes weight lift off the bed .
the door opens and closes .
i let out my breath and feel the skin unfold back down against my palms .
my wrists are sore from straining against the handcuffs .
chapter 8 we wait in silence .
i am too busy dying to care .
its all still happening the blood boiling in my veins , my muscles and sinews melting and my bones glowing hot like heated iron .
i lie on the bed shaking , searching for a moment of pure silence when the song is not beating inside my skull .
i imagine it must be very painful .
the hunger , a voice says from far away .
i blink and make the effort to turn my head .
the words are important .
if i hold onto them , they may keep me afloat .
someone once told me that its like a fire that consumes you forever .
feeding will lower the flames , but it will never extinguish them entirely .
tarrens voice is deep , ruggedthe type of voice hollywood would cast as the misanthropic cowboy lead in a spaghetti western .
there is a small table in the corner of the room .
tarren takes a chair and places it near the bed , though still far enough away to be out of arms reach .
he sits and takes his time speaking so that each word is clear and resonant .
i am sorry that you were infected , but it happened .
you are one of them .
an angel .
there are no halves .
no hybrids .
tarren leans over and plants his elbows on his knees .
thin scarlet threads through his energy .
gabe thinks you will be strong enough to control the hunger .
i hope that hes right , but i dont think so .
when you prove him wrong , i will kill you .
his head comes up and those cold eyes guard his thoughts well .
we look at each other .
more accurately , my gaze moves around his body , following the flow of his energy .
he doesnt share gabes brilliant aqua tarrens blue aura is mixed with shades of yellow and brown , which turn it muddy .
you dont understand what you are , but if you did , i think you would forgive me .
you see , most people choose to be infected .
that makes the killing a little easier , but i never enjoy it .
i know that doesnt help , but i justi wanted you to know .
my eyes find his .
it is a struggle to keep my gaze anchored with the energy moving around him .
his left eye is swollen , and a dark bruise already shades the delicate skin beneath .
are you i swallow and concentrate on the words my brothers ?
my hands are open and hot .
something new is happening to them .
half brothers , tarren says .
we have the same mother .
something vibrates .
tarren pulls a phone from his pocket .
you here ?
pause .
wait outside .
ill let you know .
tarren frowns .
listen closely .
its easy to lose control when you feed .
when youre done with the animal , youll want more , but you must stop yourself .
therell only be me and gabe left , and if you try to hurt me or especially my brother , i will kill you .
understand ?
i stare at his scar .
it starts under his left ear and jags along his jaw line , curving up his chin and ending just under the edge of his lips .
it must have been a large knife .
okay , i say , because i am sensing a new energy outside the door and though tarrens words hardly make sense , i think that maybe this new energy is for me .
alright , tarren says into his phone .
gabe opens the door .
he holds a small border collie puppy under one arm and clutches a plastic bag in his other hand .
the dogs tail wags from side to side .
all i found was a pet shop .
they didnt have anything grown , gabe says .
the dog lifts its head and licks gabes chin .
stop that , he says sternly .
stop beingso god damn adorable .
lock the door , tarren tells him .
he walks around the bed .
im going to cut the cuffs off you now , he says to me .
stay on the bed .
he looks up at gabe .
her hands are open .
shes been straining against the cuffs .
shes hungry , gabe says .
he drops the bag and fishes a gun from his waist band .
silencer on ?
tarren asks .
yeah , yeah .
im sorry little guy .
i really am .
gabe looks down at the puppy .
shit , he mutters .
he moves to the end of the bed .
a blade slides between my skin and the cuffs .
the plastic snaps off , and i think i understand .
my mind is so fogged , the need so great that im not sure just how much control i wield over my own limbs .
i pull my wrists free of the cuffs and concentrate only on the dog .
tarren is just behind me .
i could grab him .
the blood is rushing in my ears .
gabe would shoot me , but wouldnt it be worth it ?
death for even the smallest relief ?
until this night , i never understood how completely hunger can dissect away a persons soul what viciousness lies beneath the surface of any one of us .
and theres something even more wrong with my hands .
i turn them palms up and stare at the vein covered bulbs rising out of each bloodless wound .
they pulse with heat .
i let out a guttural moan that is wholly inadequate to express just how obliterated the little planet of maya is .
this is when the word monster first seizes in my minda seed plugged into fertile agony to germinate later .
gabe releases the puppy , and then i forget everything .
it lands on the bed and immediately shrinks away from me .
i rake it up into my arms , and the puppy gives a single fearful yelp before the orbs in my hands latch to its energy field .
i feel an explosion of cooling ecstasy .
there is no knowledge to this , only instinct .
my body greedily soaks up the animals energy .
the little dog trembles just as ryan trembled earlier this night .
the glow around its body dims and wavers and then vanishes like a candle snuffed .
my mind is lost , drowned in the pleasure that is all too quickly vanquished .
i let the limp body fall out of my arms .
there is more energy in the room .
the hunger is already kindling inside of me , growing louder .
i look up and see a boy in a ball cap .
he holds a gun at his side .
he is distracted .
his eyes are on the dead puppy .
i suddenly know that i am faster than him .
i could leap off the bed and connect to his energy before he could get off a shot .
my muscles tense .
there is another man .
he has a gun too .
he is not distracted .
tarren is his name .
and the other one is gabe .
i am hit by the realization of just how much i want to kill them and how little i care about the bullet i would earn for the attempt .
what would ryan think of me ?
vanilla .
the cuffs , i moan .
now , nownownow .
i put my arms behind my back , try to close up my hands .
the skin is stubborn , peeling back again as soon as tarren steps behind me .
shes got it , gabe says under his breath even as he lifts his gun .
shes got it .
shes got it .
tarrens fingers are deft .
a new set of ties whips around my torn wrists , and he pulls them tight into the wounds .
he backs away , and gabe lets out a heavy huff of breath .
i fall back against the bed , moaning as the need rises and breaks over me .
the animal inside me is so much stronger than my fragile self .
it lashes out , and i strain against the cuffs , groaning and writhing on the bed .
the two brothers watch me in silence .
eventuallyand it probably isnt so long , reallyi am lying on my side panting .
the sheets are twisted and smeared with blood from the oozing wounds on my wrists .
itll get easier , gabe says as i tumble into an exhausted sleep .
chapter 9 the nearness of energy breaks my sleep and sets my heart beating hard .
a face peers into mine , and for a blissful moment i dont recognize it .
i wonder at the strange glow around his features , about the swell of haunting music in my head and why my hands seem to be splitting open without any conscious effort .
then i remember .
hey , gabe says , i know youre tired , but i want to show you something .
his voice is too loud , even though hes whispering .
strange smells cloud the room , and something is buzzing loud as a swarm of bees .
i look over to the table and realize its just the hum of a laptop .
i try to rub my eyes and instead send flares of pain through my wrists as i tug against the cuffs .
gabe pulls the blanket off of my shoulders and helps me stand up , one hand under my elbow , the other against my back .
how you feeling ?
i think about the question , and then i stop thinking .
i need the bathroom .
ha , he replies , not going to be easy with those handcuffs .
then take them off .
tarren is not in the room .
the hunger is .
i am aware of gabes fingers on my bare skin the pulse of his energy in the space between us .
gabe hesitates .
he looks tired and too young for the things in his eyes .
i search for a resemblance , something in his face that might be mine as well .
not that i believe him .
gabe is a head taller than me and thin as a coat rack .
his long limbs are trapped in a baggy t shirt and worn jeans .
his hair , the same golden brown color of his eyes , is still managed by the backwards hat and spills out thick and wavy to his ears .
we stare at each other .
he smiles like he cant help it .
what ?
i ask .
i dont know , its justits you .
gabe laughs and shakes his head .
its you , he repeats as if this will clear things right up .
his laugh is warm and inviting , somehow untouched by the sheer catastrophe of the situation at hand .
we most definitely do not look alike at all except for a similar point to our chins .
lots of people have pointy chins .
i really need to go to the bathroom , i say .
i wont hurt you .
i just have to pee , and id like to take a shower .
this may be a lie .
im not sure yet .
gabe considers this .
shades of lavender blush within the cloud of color around his body .
he says , i know what tarren thinks , but hes wrong .
i hated to see you in these things .
he pulls out a pocket knife and cuts through the cuffs .
all the nerves in my arms are numb and then , suddenly , spiky and electric .
i tuck my hands protectively into my body .
dont take too long , or well miss it .
oh !
the smile jumps right back onto gabes face as if it was only taking a breather in the wings .
i have something for you .
gabe reaches for a bag on the floor .
there was a comic book shop next to the pet store .
shouldve seen the poor excuse for a lock they had on the door .
anyway , i , uh , i got you a shirt .
tarren is picking up some other things for you , but thisll do for now .
what do you think of battlestar galactica ?
he pulls a gray t shirt from the bag with the words frak you imprinted on the front .
ryan sometimes talked about the show with his nerdy friends .
i cry in the shower .
deep , rib bruising cries .
i cant stand up , so i sit on my knees while the water soaks my fevered skin .
my body is sore all the way into my bones and joints , and i worry that my skin might split open at the slightest pressure .
my wrists are torn up , but i dont know how bad .
i cant look at my hands right now .
i just cant .
my blood and dried vomit pigment the water then wash down the drain .
and then theres my mother , karen .
what if she doesnt have her inhaler when she gets the news that im missing ?
what if she mixes up her anti anxiety pills with her sleeping pills again ?
what if the stress gives her another ulcer ?
i threw away the medical encyclopedia , but shes found out about webmd , so now theres no stopping her .
henry , my father , isnt strong enough to keep karen under control .
hell just work more .
theres a good chance he wont even care that much .
and even though i dont want to do it , i lift my hands up from the tub and trace the new seams xing across my palms .
theyre almost invisible , except i know theyre there .
the skin kisses together like colorless lips , and i push my finger through the slit , wondrous at the heat and pain and wetness inside .
and yes , i am freaking out , but i can hardly manage more than a low moan and a couple of sparse tears .
non sum quails eram .
i am something different now .
something inhuman , and i cant explain what it feels like to not be the thing you always were .
to hear hunger as a song no one else can hear a song that racks your body and entices you to kill .
i am half convinced this is all a dream , except the hunger is too loud for sleep .
after the shower , i stand naked in front of the bathroom mirror exploring my pale body for any telltale spikes or horns or other indications of what i am .
i see a thin girl with honey colored hair turned dark with water .
flat stomach , patchy legs , foolish purple bangs .
a new musculature hints beneath my skin .
the eyes are different too .
ryan always accused me of being overdramaticof seeing things that werent there .
maybe , but i look into my own eyes and i see ruin .
the shirt is too large .
it swallows my body , and the sleeves settle into the crooks of my elbows .
come on , gabe says as soon as i open the door .
he hands me a bottle of water , and i didnt know i was thirsty , but i am .
incredibly so .
i guzzle the water as we exit the room .
we sit on the roof of the motel swinging our legs over the side .
i look past the parking lot , the blinking traffic lights and the mcdonalds across the street , trying to find something worth noticing in the gray dawn .
the air is chilled but warming , and the birds are waking up .
i can see so much farther then im supposed to can read the license plate of the battered truck puttering into the mcdonalds drive thru .
i realize i dont know where we are .
still in connecticut ?
i sniff the air and receive a heavy bouquet of scents i can not place .
the noisestraffic , birds beating their wings overhead , the mcdonalds drive thru speaker cracklingall blur and blend and beat at me like a thousand fists knocking upon a door out of unison .
wait for it , gabe says .
he is leaning back on his elbows .
i try to push away the discordant stimuli , but this only increases my awareness of gabes energy next to me .
i could reach over , snatch away that vibrant blue .
instead , i study his hat .
the thing might have been white some decades ago .
the rim is frayed .
the symbol on the crest is worn away , almost unintelligible .
it looks like a salmon colored s with a green triangle over it .
the boy i was with last night , i say and cant finish .
gabe looks up at me .
its a lot to take in .
we dont have to talk about it now .
what am i ?
what did that man do to me ?
i killed a puppy yesterday .
yeah .
gabe sits up and scratches his cap .
the kid you were with .
boyfriend ?
i nod .
gabe looks away into the distance .
hes dead .
i checked for a pulse .
the angel was trying to take you .
your boyfriend got in the way .
oh .
i wait a while for this to set in .
ryan is gone .
avalon is gone .
happiness is gone .
but i am here .
not me , monster me is here .
curved horns puppy devouring me is sitting on this roof thinking about jumping off because im too scared and too tired to come up with an option better than concrete blood art .
why i take a breath .
my voice is coming back .
why did you call him an angel ?
gabe looks at me then away quickly .
his hands fiddle with nothing .
thats what they call themselves .
big egos .
way big .
he licks his chapped lips .
you see , angels arent exactly the precious moments figurines society likes to think .
in the bible , angels are gods warriors .
they smite his enemies .
lots of times they disguise themselves as humans , but theyre something else .
terrible and strong .
super humans .
thats what these angels are too , but theyre not working for any god .
where did they come from ?
outer space ?
im not sure if this is a joke until gabe laughs .
nah , its all science .
evil genius , frankenstein science , and he stops and looks at me .
you know , its kind of our policy to never talk about this .
tell me .
itll sound crazy .
i am pushing my palms flat against the concrete roof .
hard .
keeping them there , because what i really want to do is latch onto gabes energy field or aura or whatever it is and drain him .
ill keep an open mind , would have been a clever thing to say .
what i manage is , just tell me .
gabe keeps staring at me .
i cant imagine what i must look like right now , but evidently it evokes enough pity that he says , gary cook .
he created the angels .
he was a scientist .
what , like a mad scientist ?
no , not at all .
the opposite , actually .
his eyes come up to meet mine , and there is no humor in them .
you know how they say the road to hell is paved with good intentions ?
he says softly .
gary cook was the poster child for good intentions gone bad .
thing is , he looked at this world and saw all the heaps of suffering everyone was going through .
the hunger , the sickness , the petty violence , and he decided to do something about it .
by mixing up monsters in his lab ?
he came up with this idea .
pretty damned brazen actually .
gabe takes in a swill of breath and lets it out long and slow like he needs some time to figure his next words .
dr. cook decided to make angels .
he cant actually be seriousexcept that he is .
thats where he got his inspiration .
he wanted to turn men into angels .
i stare .
gabe just shrugs .
dude was a little whacked in the head , but he believed it was possible to gabe searches for the word , reengineer the human body .
he theorized that humans could be made stronger and faster with keener sensesthat anything was possible .
maybe even human flight .
oh , i say .
the man .
last night .
we flew .
gabe turns his head to look at me .
youre taking this a little too well .
no , im not .
you just dont know me .
ive begun to barricade my emotions behind a mental door with ruthless efficiency .
i am still considering letting myself slip off the roof , but first i want to know what happened to me .
i need to understand what i am and how i might go about killing the man who did this to me .
im sorry ryan .
revenge would surely be beneath you , but not me .
revenge is the weak souls justice , and i am beginning to learn just how weak i can be .
cooks theory revolved around energy transference , gabe continues .
he believed that the human body contained a vast untapped potential for strength , intelligence and power .
i tuck my hands into my body and pick at the torn skin around my wrists .
i thrill at the sparks of pain when my nails press into the gashes .
little bits of dried blood fall into the apron of my shirt .
tarren understands the science of it a lot better than me , but the thing is , humans cant get energy directly .
think of the way plants can just suck it up right from the sun .
we get our energy by eating the plants or the animals that eat the plants .
its really inefficient .
each link is farther away from the direct energy source , which means theres a huge loss of energy .
cook was after a way to cut out all the middle steps so that humans could absorb energy directly from the sun .
he thought that such pure energy would allow humans to reach their full physical potential .
itd be like steroids times a hundred , except not only for muscles .
for your senses .
for your memory .
for your mind .
butwhy ?
my voice cracks .
to save us from ourselves , gabe shrugs .
cook envisioned a world where everyone fed directly off the energy of the sun .
think about itno more hunger .
no more fighting over resources .
the superhuman part , i guess i can see it .
if everyone was strong and smart and there wasnt disease and stuff , maybe we could fix our other problems .
a lonely little smile plays across his lips .
maybe dr. cook believed he could fix human nature by making us all something better than humans .
no one can actually be that nave .
i dont know , gabe sits up and braces his hands behind him .
havent you ever wanted to create a better world ?
i have absolutely no idea how to respond to this .
i mean i do , but i dont think suddenly imploding into manic , tortured laughter would be very pleasant for either of us .
luckily , i get distracted by my body going crazy .
chapter 10 gabe , i say to get his attention .
some additional weirdness is definitely happening to me .
my skin tingles , and my hands peel back and grow hot .
i turn them over and watch the veiny pink orbs lift to the surface of my palms .
out in the distance , the sun has just cleared the horizon .
sunlight crawls up my knees and flows across my hands .
whats happening ?
i ask .
the song quiets , and i feel the deep fog of exhaustion begin to lift from my mind .
my senses sharpen .
i gaze through the tinted windows of a squat building three streets down .
a woman runs a vacuum roughly over the carpet , and i can make out gaudy rings on her fingers and large silver hoop earrings swaying from each earlobe .
i can hear an old mans wavering voice order an egg mcmuffin at the mcdonalds drive thru .
the song has grown softer , and when i turn to gabe and see again the glow of energy about him , i feel more confident that i will not give in and snatch away his life .
youre taking energy from the sun , just like cook theorized .
its feeding you , gabe says .
he holds his hand out into the light .
but im stilli mean , its still inside me .
the hunger ?
gabe drops his hand .
yeah , i know .
cook got close , but not close enough .
guy was a distinguished university professor .
he got his own lab and did a lot of legit stuff that the university knew about .
published papers , gave lectures , that sort of thing , but his true obsession was creating angels .
for decades he worked on his project in secret .
eventually , he got funding from a very powerful man named robert thane .
thane ?
that sounds familiar .
he owned casinos in vegas a couple of decades ago , gabe replies .
he was a very wealthy and very brutal man .
one bad hombre .
oh yeah .
i say .
he was assassinated .
his flat was torn up .
they still dont know who did it .
its , like , a huge unsolved mystery .
a bright streak of orange flowers and dies in gabes aura .
the quick change in color rivets my eyes , sets little shivers vibrating down my spine .
gabe isnt looking at me .
he pulls at a thread on his shirtsleeve .
yeah , he says finally .
thane didnt fund dr. cook alone .
he gathered together a group of high rollers , business magnates , politicians , mob bosses and the like .
these were powerful men and women who thrived on success and competition .
they wanted to rule the world .
okay , stop .
i lean back on my hands , because those bulbs just need to go away for a while .
youre talking secret society with cowls and skull goblets and stuff ?
i feel my chest tightening up , and i push back , hard .
no more tears .
no more anything until i figure something out .
this whole thing is already beginning to feel somehow unwinnable .
you dont have to believe me maya .
i shouldnt even be telling you all this .
i think you should just relax today and no .
keep going .
gabe sighs and squints into the sun .
below , the smell of coffee curdles my stomach .
i usually drink it every morning .
okay , so weve got the super evil club , gabe continues .
not exactly everyone sitting around a table petting fat white cats and planning dastardly deeds , but close enough .
these guys were basically arrogant pricks .
rich as hell and bored of buying all the crap they could ever want .
they decided to search for a way to become even more powerful .
what they found was dr. cook .
he was the key .
how did you even learn all of this ?
i break in .
what exactly is it that you and your brother do ?
hold on , ill get there , gabe grins at me .
i hear a door opening and closing below us , feel a familiar energy .
what is it ?
gabe notices my frown .
tarren is coming , i say .
i can feel his energy rushing up the stairs .
my muscles clench .
hes angry .
hes always angry , gabe sighs .
he squares his shoulders as the door to the roof bursts open .
chapter 11 tarren has his gun drawn , and the breath tears in and out of his body .
i am fascinated by the energy sky blue , almost white leaping off his body like flames devouring dust dry kindling .
get away from him , tarren growls .
my body responds to the bright , dancing light , and i am drawn toward him even as i fight against the instinct .
i said move !
his words finally penetrate , and i quickly scoot away from gabe .
more , tarren orders , out of arms reach .
come on , gabe says .
shut up .
tarren lowers his gun .
his heart is jumping so quick , i can see the veins pulsing at his temples .
i have to turn away and wrap my arms around my waist .
what the hell were you thinking ?
tarren starts .
the room was empty .
the cuffs were on the floor .
i thought i wanted to take her out into the sun .
gabe stands up and thrusts back his shoulders .
everything is fine .
i can take care of myself .
honest .
even changed my own diaper this morning .
shes infected gabe .
youre too blind to recognize what she is .
dear little sis could have latched onto you and killed you .
shes in the cuffs until we figure this thing out .
her wrists are all torn up .
she was in pain .
i dont give a damn about her wrists .
i didnt hurt him , i say .
tarren looks at me .
his eyes have turned gunmetal gray just like mine do when im furious .
not yet , he says quietly , but you cant help what you are .
gabes aura rears up .
for fucks sake !
he yells .
in case youve been too busy worrying about every known thing in the universe , the girls just had her entire life destroyed .
how about we stop waving guns in her face and treating her likewell , shes not an angel .
shes not !
the hunger is flooding my mind , and i strain to hold onto my senses .
hot hands .
i keep the skin down over my palms , but i can feel those bulbs pushing against the seams .
my nails dig into my wrists , and the pain keeps me anchored .
blood drips between my fingers .
we need to think about this .
tarrens voice is careful .
you cant let your emotions im so sick of gabe bites back his next words .
forget it .
somehow this is funny .
my mind is little jagged puzzle pieces all falling apart .
the pull of energy makes words hard to string together .
tarren is mad and gabe is mad , and monster maya is mad , mad , mad and hungry too .
she thinks the sun is playing a trick on her and a swan dive might be fun and maybe ryan is somewhere waiting in a place with no songs , no sounds .
the boys glower at each other .
their jaws are set almost identically .
tarren is half a head taller , packed with wiry muscle .
his face is all sharp bones , strong chin and cruel smiling scar .
gabes cheeks are flushed , and his blunt dashes of eyebrows tilt toward each other sharing secrets .
gloves , i say .
they both turn to me .
ill wear gloves .
that way youll have some warning if i decide to kill you both .
silence , then gabes eyebrows part ways .
ah !
he cries , shes got a sense of humor .
thank god !
i need all the help i can get .
he smiles at me , and i smile back .
tarrens frown furrows deeper into the corners of his mouth .
this is the moment i decide that i will run away .
tonight .
no matter what .
chapter 12 gabe tells me that were going home .
home is farewell , colorado , just outside of pueblo .
we sit in tarrens silver murano and wait for him to finish wiping down the motel room .
gabe is in the passenger seat , scrolling through police blotters on his laptop .
in the backseat , i tug against my handcuffs and enjoy the sparks of pain that alight as the plastic presses against the open wounds .
in an unspoken compromise , tarren cuffed my hands in front of me .
i bring my knees to my chest , loop my arms over them .
i like this position , feeling that i am as small and unobtrusive as i can be .
my mind is starting to go crazy again .
i see ryan fall , hear the last pained hiccups dry on his lips .
chapped lips .
warm lips filled with electricity .
you didnt finish your story , i say to gabe .
he looks up , clicks off his window .
his computer wallpaper features keira knightley dressed in a strange leather halter top and leggings with a sword strapped to her thin waist .
i want to hear the rest , i say .
he sighs , closes the lid of his computer .
yeah .
sure .
where was i ?
the super evil club , i say and then effortlessly pluck his exact words from my memory .
rich as hell and bored of buying all the crap they could ever want .
they decided to search for a way to become even more powerful .
what they found was dr. cook .
he was the key .
the smile drops off of gabes face .
theres some sort of conflict going on in his mind .
i see it in the shifting ribbons of color in his aura .
good memory , he says at last and reaches forward to switch the air on high .
thane and his group financed dr. cooks work .
you have to understand that to cook the whole thing was about advancing the human race and stamping out hunger .
he was your average oblivious scientist .
he didnt realize thanes motives .
not until it was too late .
of course , i say .
yeah , gabe goes on .
for a long time , cook came up with nada .
all he had to show for years of work were violent lab rats with serious cases of radiation poisoning .
i mean , he spent a lifetime on this thing .
dabbled in biology , chemistry , radiation and mutations , even genetics , which was still a very new frontier back then .
eventually , he made a breakthrough .
this was twenty five years ago .
dr. cook was growing old , and thane was getting impatient .
he didnt want to wait for all the proper testing and convinced dr. cook to hand over the formula .
thanes son , grand , was the first angel .
once thane saw the results , he infected himself and his two other children .
the other financial backers were next .
gabe stops .
his energy begins to churn faster around his body .
im not sure what this means .
i press my palms harder into my knee caps .
keep going , i tell him .
he takes a deep breath and then continues .
the formula worked .
the people who took it changed .
they couldnt digest real food anymore could only drink purified water .
their hearing got better .
so did their sight and sense of smell .
they ran faster .
lifted more weight .
became incredibly agile .
could memorize whole books in an afternoon .
gabes voice wavers , but he catches himself , picks it back up .
it was all dr. cook had dreamed of , except for one thing .
the hunger .
the hunger , gabe nods .
the angels were able to absorb energy from the sun just like youre doing now , but it wasnt enough .
they needed more , and the hunger was overwhelming .
they soon learned that they could absorb concentrated amounts of energy directly from living creatures puppies , kittens , ferrets , elephants even .
they needed to feed constantly , and the more they fed , the stronger they became .
many of the angels even developed incredible abilities just like dr. cook predicated , including flight .
but it all demanded a constant supply of energy .
the angels all eventually turned to feeding on humans .
but why ?
i whisper .
gabe takes off his cap , massages the inside rim with his thumbs .
the air from the vents catches in his hair and sends the smell of his sweat and shampoo throughout the car .
humans offer huge caches of energy , and theyre easy to obtain .
wait .
if these are really rich guys , cant they develop secret puppy mills or buy elephants or something ?
they can , but theres something else .
gabe lays his head back against the headrest .
control .
the hunger is overwhelming , and humans are the easiest targets .
some angels have learned to control the hunger better than others .
a lot of them dont care .
but even the ones who try to control themselves will slip occasionally .
they cant fight it forever , and with your food walking all around you every day , youre bound to snapwell , i mean , not you you .
i meant the others .
the full angels .
youre different .
you hope , i say quietly .
its not fair .
gabe turns his face toward me .
im beginning to understand his aura , how it reveals his psyche , like now when little red streaks of pain spiral through .
this shouldnt have happened , he says .
not to you .
more red .
tarrens coming , i say .
the front door of the motel swings open , and tarren strides out .
striding fits his long , lean figure and the dont mess with me expression he seems intent on permanently attaching to his face .
he wont hurt you , gabe whispers .
i wont let him .
tarren gets into the drivers seat , and gabe turns his face forward .
we all sit there in this awkward silence for a while .
tarrens aura is choppy , unnerving , tinged with red .
you sure you feel up to driving ?
gabe asks him .
tarrens eyes lock on mine in the rearview mirror .
dont make any sudden moves , he says .
if you need anything , just ask .
in the resulting silence , i realize that i am meant to answer .
it crosses my mind that no matter how nice gabe seems to be , im sitting in a car with two very dangerous psychopaths .
i can remember in perfect detail all the blood soaking tarrens shirt last night .
alright , i say and try to keep my voice steady .
seatbelts , gabe says .
tarren turns the key , and the murano wakes with a smooth hum .
as soon as we get onto the highway , gabe continues his story without prompting .
cook was devastated when he realized what his formula did .
he sought the betterment of mankind , but created monsters instead .
had he read his comic books , he wouldve realized that this kind of backfire was practically inevitable .
tarren looks at his brother .
she wanted to know , gabe shrugs .
careful .
im right here , i say to him .
those artic eyes peer at me through the rearview mirror again .
the silence is so heavy i could almost choke on it .
gabe clears his throat .
thane and the others didnt care about the hunger and killing .
they enjoyed it actually .
thane convinced them that angels were destined to become a superior race , the highest evolution of mankind .
the exalted , tarren says quietly .
in the passenger side mirror , i see gabe roll his eyes .
thane demanded that dr. cook give him more of the formula so he could infect select members of the elite .
dr. cook recognized what was happening and knew he had to destroy the thing he had dedicated his entire life to .
quite a kick in the balls , right ?
gabe offers a little smile , but it doesnt get too far .
i look out the window , watch the road streaming beneath our wheels , carrying me farther and farther away fromwell , everything .
dr. cook needed help , and there was only one person he trusted , gabe says .
tarrens aura jolts .
long fingers of red reach all the way through his energy .
my body responds , those bulbs pushing through my palms to lift up from my kneecaps .
i tug against my cuffs and concentrate on the pain that runs hot laps around my wrists .
the sunlight falls across me in bands , and this helps a little .
enter the handsome , young protg , gabe is saying .
dr. cook confessed everything to an up and coming science professor at the university a man he considered to be like a son .
that mans name was canton fox .
he was our father .
i mean , tarrens and mine .
tarrens hands tighten on the wheel , and he stares straight ahead out the windshield .
his bodyback , arms , neckis composed entirely of straight lines , like he was welded into position with no hinges .
gabe shrugs .
together , they destroyed all of cooks research .
burned his notes , smashed his equipment and set fire to his lab .
but there was one more thing .
dr. cook knew thane would come for him , for the formula .
thane always had a way of getting what he wanted .
before cook shot himself in the head , he extracted a promise from my father .
cook had no one else to turn to .
gabes eyes go far away .
his words are soft .
i think about what it must have been like for my dad how he must have felt .
mom always told us that he was a good man , very brave , and funny .
i dont remember him .
tarren does .
only a little , tarren whispers .
his knuckles are turning white on the steering wheel .
he says , our father promised dr. cook that he would kill all those who had taken the formula .
it is a promise he gave his life for .
a promise my brother and i carry forward .
thats what we do , gabe says .
i think i finally understand .
you hunt angels .
in the mirror , gabe smiles .
yeah , he says and looks at his brother .
its a sad smile , heavy with purpose and pain .
i dont like the way it pulls all the warmth from his face how tired it makes him look .
tarren turns his head , and i am amazed to watch their auras swell up in unison as if they were unconsciously reaching out to share each others burden .
chapter 13 we graze along the highway .
sun drizzles through the windows , and i drop into sleep .
my consciousness is confused , wandering through melting dreams and briefly surfacing when i hear voices up front .
i am walking through a forest , and the trees are falling down after me .
one by one , their heavy trunks smack the ground in thunderous explosions that send vibrations through the soles of my feet .
totally exhausted , gabes voice in the background .
did you see the shirt i got her ?
pretty sweet , huh ?
this is a bad idea , tarren says .
yeah , i kind of figured you were against the whole thing back when you were trying to shoot her .
gabe , this is serious .
there were cops all over the campus .
people heard her scream .
theyre already running pictures of her .
think its an abduction .
well , it kind of is .
someone saw you standing over the boys body with a gun .
if we get caught tarren , she needs us .
weve got to teach her how to control the hunger , and grand will want her back .
we have to protect her .
thats the other thing i am looking for ryan .
karen is with me , but she isnt helping .
she tells me that she has lyme disease , though i know shes overreacting again .
i keep telling her that ryan is in trouble .
i dont know what kind of trouble , but i have to rescue him .
karen doesnt care .
shes got an acupuncturist appointment .
she keeps wandering off , and i have to chase her , but i cant touch her or shell die .
i run up to her and beg her to come with me .
time is running out .
looks like mom a little , dont you think ?
gabes voice .
i dont know .
come on .
she does .
same nose , and she has this way of looking at you .
its her eyes .
i dont know .
they get all sad and angry at the same time .
i swear mom had the exact same look .
and then , when we were on the roof , she did this sigh .
a lot of people sigh .
no , no , but it was like this super sigh , like the whole world is crumbling , but i have to be all strong about it sigh .
just like you .
shes totally got tarren sighs .
come on .
and get this , i hacked her records , and shes a literature major .
wild , huh ?
ryan is lost at sea .
he fell out of a boat .
karen has wandered off , but she gave me a bottle of her perfume .
she told me to spray it in the air when i get to the ocean and she will come back .
i am on the beach .
ive lost the perfume .
i am looking out across the waves , knowing ryan is drowning in the depths somewhere .
it all suddenly seems so vast .
i realize that ill never find him .
i decide to build a sandcastle in ryans memory .
it will be a beautiful sandcastle that people will come from all over the world to see .
they will know how much i loved ryan and how much i miss him .
i wander the beach looking for a bucket .
to be careful about how much she feeds , tarren says .
if she takes in too much energy , shell lose control and be too strong to stop .
we have to watch her .
all the time .
yeah , and we need to find something ugly for her to kill .
no more puppies .
tarren sighs .
hows this going to work ?
shell just live with us forever ?
well become fast friends and go angel hunting together ?
turn our backs every time she has to raid the local zoo to get a fix ?
nah , shes going to live with us for a while , gabe says .
youre going to find a cure .
maya will be turned back to normal , but shell like us so much well , shell like me so much , shell want to stay and help .
well all go angel hunting together and sing harmonious songs in the car or maybe play the license plate game .
well kill or cure all the angels , and our lifes mission will be complete .
youll stand over mom and dads graves and say in an oh so noble voice , its finished .
you can rest well now .
while ill sweep francesca off her feet .
youll be my best man at the wedding .
maya will be a bridesmaid .
francesca and i will live next door with our passel of the worlds most beautiful children .
maya will write a bestselling book all about our adventures , and maybe , just maybe youll get yourself laid .
thats how its going to work .
jesus .
chapter 14 i pick through the target shopping bag tarren has dropped in front of me .
there is something black and sticky tangled in the shag carpet fibers near my knee .
i look around this new motel room at the peeling wallpaper , the framed prints of hunting scenes and the rack of antlers hung between the two beds .
so this is missouri .
i am forcing myself only to think of the present , to observe without judgment .
all emotions must be controlled and locked away so that i can get through this minute .
and the next and the next after that .
i dont know how i can possibly keep this up , but thats why ive got to stay in the present .
one breath at a time .
first , change clothes .
second , figure out which of the millions of questions to start with .
third , check the locks on the windows when tarren isnt looking .
i didnt know small or medium , so i got medium , tarren mutters behind me .
theres dye and scissors in the other bag .
i pull out a pair of jeans and a flower patterned tank top .
both are a size too large .
i lay them aside , careful to avoid the black carpet stain .
i pull out a pack of white cotton full coverage underwear .
the kind that settles just under the belly button .
this is grandma underwear , i whine , tossing the pack away from me .
tarrens face grows cloudy .
i didnt have to get you anything at all .
oh !
youre right .
ive been so rude .
i hold up my gloved hands .
dusk has settled , and without the suns sustenance , the song is growing loud , tightening around my bones .
it was so genteel of you to let me out of my cuffs for dinner .
your incredible hospitality knows no bounds .
i gather up my clothes and escape to the bathroom .
i sit on the toilet for a half hour , picking at my black , fingerless glovesmaya the motorcycle bitchand wonder if i am truly capable of a daring escape .
i am .
tarren said people are looking for me .
i could make a mad dash for the front office or scream like a crazy woman .
my voice could carry through these thin walls .
but the boys have guns , and i know tarren will use his if he has to .
that means i have to get away from them first .
our motel is off the main road , but i could find my way back into town , flag down a motorist and make my way to the local police station .
this scenario assumes that i dont accidentally kill the helpful motorist on the way , or the police dont happen to notice the new slits in my hands .
maybe i wont go to the police .
maybe ill go straight home to karen and henry .
karen is probably in full panic attack mode right about now , inhaler cemented to her mouth .
henry is grimacing and trying to figure out who he can hand her off to now that im not there .
i imagine karens tear streaked face on the local news begging for my captors to bring me home .
shell probably even be wearing a t shirt with my face on it .
karen in a t shirt ?
no , shell stick with a rhinestone encrusted find maya button .
henry might even take a long lunch from the office to stand by her side looking stern .
a soft knock on the door .
strong , steady energy behind it .
maya ?
gabe asks .
i dont answer .
whatever tarren said , he didnt mean it .
that whole total prick thing is just his defense mechanism .
he has lots of deep seeded issues .
oh come on , tarren mutters farther back .
underneath hes really a lovable teddy bear with an affection for guns .
hes also quite fond of hugs and romantic comedies you probably dont know that about him , gabe says .
oh , and i got us some grub .
i open the door .
tarren receives a salad and vitamin water .
gabe presents himself with a cheeseburger and a can of red bull .
man food , he says .
the smell of dead meat fills the room , and i shudder .
and for you gabe reaches into the bag , goldfish !
not exactly like youre used to , but these are prettier than the snack .
he hands me a bowl and two large plastic bags filled with darting , colorful shapes .
he glances at his brother , and tarren nods in approval .
we sit on the floor in a semi circle .
i make sure i am out of arms reach of both boys .
tarren picks carefully through his salad , while gabe bites into his burger and moans with pleasure .
ive already downed the two bottles of water gabe set in front of me .
my thirst seems to have no limit .
now , i let my hand rest in the bowl of water until the fish forget the intrusion .
in a swift motion , i snatch up a wriggling body , squeeze out its energy and place the small corpse on a napkin behind me .
the brothers pretend not to notice , but they pause each time i pull my hand out of the water .
the energy of the fish hit me in small bursts , hardly substantial enough to feel even a moments relief .
it is more maddening then filling .
drops of rain on my parched tongue while two forbidden lakes sit before me .
gabe , i say , and he lifts his head , chipmunk cheeks filled with cheeseburger bits .
you said your father and dr. cook destroyed the formula , but the man who took me .
he used bone marrow transplant , tarren sets down his fork .
after his father was killed , grand became obsessed with recreating the formula or finding another way to infect others .
he raped a lot of women , gabe puts down the last bite of his burger .
transferred blood .
blasted poor bastards with radiation .
fed off them till they were almost dead , then brought them back , that kind of thing .
eventually he discovered that bone marrow injected into the spine worked .
to a lesser degree than the original formula , tarren says .
close enough .
gabe crushes the paper wrapper from his burger and throws it in the bag .
we found one of his labs awhile back .
it was a slaughterhouse .
hes still doing it too .
experimenting to find an easier way .
the bone marrow limits him .
god , weve got to kill that bastard .
grand is incredibly smart , incredibly rich and incredibly viscous , tarren says .
thats what makes him the most dangerous one of them all .
his energy pulses a deep crimson , the color of dried blood .
and hes my father , i say .
he is , isnt he ?
gabe looks to tarren .
i dont think he begins .
im draining live fish for food .
and my mind spins and comes up empty .
and that sucks , okay .
so just tell me .
its tarren who speaks .
our father killed robert thane .
it took him two years to get close enough .
you dont know how hard it is to kill an angel , especially a powerful one who feeds without restraint .
it was a terrible fight , but our father won .
the pride is evident in tarrens voice and his aura .
this is the closest to happy ive seen him , and it makes him handsome even with the scar .
grand was thanes eldest son , and he wanted revenge .
tarrens voice is somehow commanding even when he speaks softly , like now .
our parents were smart but also nave in many ways .
they were still trying to live functional lives during the day .
grand had too many connections .
too much money .
he found them , eventually .
she doesnt need to know the details , gabe says roughly .
there are two fish left in the bowl .
they seem unconcerned about the loss of their companions or what it could portend for their own chances of survival .
their orange bodies make quick laps around the bowl with thoughtless determination .
they do not have the capacity for happiness or sadness .
not fear either .
not hate .
not the strange sinking sickness when you learn your father doesnt fit any of the childhood roles youve dreamed up for him .
not even the worst ones .
grand raped our mother and killed our father , tarren continues in a flat , disengaged voice .
slowly .
he meant to take our mother back to one of his labs as an experiment , but sheescaped .
she set the house on fire , gabe says and laughs suddenly .
grand had no idea what she was capable of .
how deep the fight went inside her .
we were in daycare .
she picked us up and fled .
our parents had a contingency plan in place , naturally , tarren adds .
we hid for a long time , gabe says .
i dont remember it .
i was only two , but she told me about it later .
how afraid she was .
what was her name ?
i rasp .
diana , tarren says .
she died six years ago .
cancer .
i stare at his nosea long straight bridge , round and pronounced at the tip .
it looks too big and cumbersome on me , but it fits tarrens face perfectly .
i hate that about him , the truth it conveys of our shared parentage .
i hate everything right now .
especially these stupid fish not knowing that im going to kill them .
especially my stupid mouth that suddenly opens and lets my whole world spill out .
my parents , karen and henry , they never hid the fact that i was adopted .
they even didnt mind so much when i stopped calling them mom and dad , though i think it hurt karens feelings .
i was trying to rebel , sort of andand i always wanted to save those words , just in case my voice is shaking , because im losing it .
really losing it , in case my real parentsin case i found them and they wanted to take me back .
and when i was little i would make up all these stories about them .
how they were a king and queen and had to hide me from an evil wizard .
the first story i ever wrote was about them .
and i kept writing .
a hundred stories to justify why they gave me away .
and thenoh shit , and then when i got older i wrote different stories .
i turned my parents into drug addicts .
or my mom was a prostitute or the high school whore who got pregnant .
i made up terrible things because i was so , so angry .
i really am trying to shut the hell up , but i cant .
ive never told this to anyone .
not even ryan .
because they didnt want me .
maybe my father never even knew about me , but my mother had no excuse .
i hated her so much , but now i know .
she must have despised me and finally the words are gone , and im surprised that there are no tears .
just a pinched throat that doesnt feel like it will ever open up again to let me breathe .
the boys are looking at me , but i cant bring my head up , not with their energy so close and my nerves unhinged and my hands , damn them , heating up .
i keep my eyes on the oblivious fish .
no maya , it wasnt that .
gabes voice breaks through my stupor .
mom loved you .
when she was sick she told me how she thought about you all the time .
she was so afraid when she got pregnant .
afraid that you would be an angel .
when you were born human , she told me it was the first time she smiled since the fire .
you gave her hope .
but whygive me up ?
i can only manage a whisper .
she had her reasons , tarren says in that sharp , clipped voice that slams the door shut on our conversation and adds a padlock for good measure .
its getting late .
he gathers up the trash .
well need to start out early in the morning .
gabe remains seated , and his doleful eyes catch mine and hold them .
in a quiet voice he says , mom told me that she took comfort knowing that you were out in the world living a normal life .
that you would never be burdened with the truth .
tarrens face doesnt betray a single twitch , but his aura jolts red .
he drops the trash into the bin .
i look back at gabe .
until now , i say to him .
i snatch a fish out of the water and suck its life away .
one left .
i dip my hand into the bowl .
chapter 15 the brothers argue in whispers while i am in the bathroom using a finger to rub toothpaste onto my teeth .
i leave the faucet running and lean against the door to listen .
the subject under heated discussion is the need for a night watch .
the intended object of the watch is , of course , me .
tarren opines that i should be kept under strict guard .
im emotional , unpredictable and dangerous .
gabe disagrees , noting that i seem to be taking the whole thing in stride .
he votes in favor of a full nights sleep on account that neither of them has slept in the past two days .
gabe is called irresponsible .
tarren is called a prick .
neither seems offended by his moniker .
a compromise is reached .
when i exit the bathroom , my wrists are cuffed behind my back with apologies from gabe and a nod from tarren .
despite gabes protests , tarren takes the floor with an extra pillow and blanket while gabe and i each slip into a bed .
both brothers put their guns under their pillow .
tarren stays fully dressed .
gabe kicks off his shoes and throws his jeans on the floor .
the lights go out .
i wait .
gabe falls asleep quickly .
i watch the movement of his energy slow and even out .
the light around his body dims to a soft , round glow , and his breath comes out in rhythmic whooshes against the pillow .
i cast my gaze to the floor and watch tarrens energy spike up and down , moving in jerky circles and webbed with scarlet .
again and again his energy field begins to smooth down , then jumps high .
each time , his heart beat rises to a quick gallop .
nightmares ?
he seems so remorseless in the daylight .
i wait .
my mind is numb and empty .
the darkness seems to vibrate , and as i lay in my bed , i mentally explore my new body .
it is entirely different from the thing i once resided within .
the darkness is like a semi sheer curtain that shades the room but can not hide its contents .
i can see gabes laptop sitting on the table and the ridges on the lamps twist dial .
i can smell the lingering whiffs of salad dressing and burger .
even the boys each have their own unique scent .
a new latent energy coils inside my muscles .
i wonder what i can do with it .
through the walls , i catch faint throbs of energy from the other motel patrons .
i can tell who is awake and who is not .
if they are having sex or watching tv .
in the closest rooms , i can even hear the late night comedians gearing up their monologs .
the sheer volume of new information is difficult to parse and process .
i struggle to filter it into a coherent message .
and the hunger is peaking again .
i couldnt possibly sleep even if i wanted to .
not with their auras glowing so blatantly bright .
not when my hands are growing hot , and i must make a mental effort to keep the skin on my palms from rolling back .
tarren falls into a light sleep .
his energy never entirely evens out , but the jumps are smaller and do not wake him .
i take my time with the handcuffs , giving them long concentrated pulls .
my wrists ache .
i can feel blood soaking through the bandages .
i pull harder .
the plastic strains .
my muscles strain .
the blood flows .
my teeth grind against each other .
i wont give up , cant give up .
i keep thinking that just maybe ryan isnt dead .
maybe everything theyve told me is a lie .
about being my brothers .
about grand raping my mother .
what if theyre really the bad guys ?
it happens in movies all the time , and havent the last two days just been one crazy b horror movie with inept actors trying too hard ?
the cuffs snap .
tarren flinches and mumbles something incoherent .
i keep still , forcing my breathing to remain low and even .
he drops back into sleep .
it is amazing he cant hear the wild beating of my heart .
it fills the entire room .
i draw back the covers and step out of the bed .
im wearing a matching peach tank top and cotton capri pants with yellow hearts around the hems .
i step over tarren on dainty feet .
he doesnt stir .
i pull the lock back slowly on the window and catch it behind my hand .
my muscles are all clenching hard to my bones .
this is probably a bad idea .
i cant really go back , i know that .
ryan isnt waiting for me .
doctors cant stitch up these new tears in my hands .
tarren might be working on a cure , but tarren also wants to kill me .
he and his brother spend their days running around murdering people .
i will go out into the night , and i will run .
i dont care what happens after that .
i tug on the glass panel , and it slides open with a squeal of protest .
tarren raises his head and blinks .
our eyes meet .
in the second it takes his tired mind to realize whats happening , i leap through the window .
land .
run .
chapter 16 the humid night air moves grudgingly into my lungs as i tear through the empty back roads of this town and cut into a wooded field .
i can hear the faint hiss of the highway in the distance .
this feels like flying .
my strides are long and graceful , and i feel , really feel my new body in motion .
i am giddy with fear .
this is some kind of mix between dreaming and reality .
the song is playing , always playing , but now it seems to be encouraging me .
i feel strong .
i pause , pulling air into my lungs and try to regain my bearings .
the night is dark , but my eyes cut right through it .
ive run at least a couple of miles , and the highway is close .
dont move .
tarren comes up behind me , gun leveled .
he is gasping for breath , trying to hide it .
his long sleeved shirt is soaked with sweat and clinging to his body .
he is spent i can see it in the wavering energy field that hugs close to his body .
the pained scarlet is more prominent .
youre coming back .
now , he says , but his words melt away in the glow of his energy .
i know that i could outrun him , but suddenly i dont want to .
the run has drained me i need fuel .
you wont shoot me , i say .
you promised gabe .
gabe isnt here , tarren replies .
on your mothers grave , and this is becoming fun .
hes trapped , but he doesnt know it yet .
something dark and cruel is uncurling inside of me .
i want to break his calm .
i want to see him afraid .
but she isnt here either is she ?
i say .
dont you dare he whispers .
i take a step closer .
does it comfort you to think shes in heaven watching out for you and your little brother ?
keeps you going , huh ?
shes not anywhere tarren .
or your father .
theyre both worm shit rotting in shut up !
his face is taunt with rage , and thats how i win .
i leap .
he fires .
his concentration is off , and he is a second too slow .
a second is an achingly long time .
the bullet hisses by my left ear just as my knee catches his shoulder .
we hit the ground together .
the gun skitters away .
tarren lands on his back , me on top of him .
i hear the air kick out of his lungs , see the scarlet pulse around his body .
he twists under me , gasping for breath and throwing a protective arm over his ribs .
now i know where hes injured .
i put my hands on his chest and slam him back , hard into the ground .
he shudders in pain and lays stunned , red crackling all around him .
i know what you are , tarren rasps .
go ahead .
prove it .
there is a strange glint of relief in his face .
he closes his eyes and waits , and the shame comes like a sudden rain soaking right through me .
i feel sodden with it .
cold .
ryan , hiding in the trees , shakes his head , and i see myself as i must look to him in this moment the precipice i am traipsing .
i fight against the hunger , but its like trying to push away a tidal wave .
tarren opens his eyes .
do it , he says .
it almost sounds like a plea .
i am in control , i tell him through gritted teeth .
this is where i should finish with a noble speech about inner strength and the power of belief , but i cant think of anything more .
im too damn hungry , and this isnt a b horror flick after all .
i stand up and take a wobbly step away .
tarren struggles up to his elbow , panting in pain .
i turn away from him , toward the highway .
dont follow me .
maya wait !
gabe stumbles out into the field still wearing his t shirt and striped boxers .
oh god , dontgo yet .
justgive mea second .
he leans over and gasps for breath .
his bare feet are dirty and bleeding .
maya , dont go .
gabe straightens up , and the moon catches his flushed face and tousled hair .
if you go back itll be all over the news .
grand will come for you .
hell turn you into an angel .
you think its hard to control the hunger now ?
if you turn , itll be impossible .
youll kill people .
men , women , children .
how do i know youre telling the truth ?
how do i know any of this is real at all ?
i shout back at him .
ryan , ryan , ryan , if only i could leap into the ocean and wash up on the shores of avalon .
mom knew that if grand ever found out about you he would stop at nothing to find you and infect you just like his father infected him , gabe says .
thats why she gave you away , to protect you .
she never blamed you for who your father was or how you were conceived .
you were innocent .
she knew that , and we know that .
i want to go home .
you cant , tarren says , sitting up with a wince .
gabe gives him a look , and the hysteria that has been bubbling beneath the surface of my mind suddenly erupts like a geyser .
this is crazy .
this is insane , my voice squeaks .
you two areand especially you , i huff at tarren , and im. , i look at gabe helplessly .
the words fall from my lips like haunted things .
i dont know what i am .
gabe doesnt hesitate .
youre our sister , he says .
he squares his shoulders and stretches out his hand .
ill prove it .
take my hand without your gloves on .
gabe , tarren barks .
let me do this .
gabe never lets go of my eyes .
maya , take my hand .
ii cant .
traitorous tears flee down my face , and i wipe them away .
dont ask me to do this .
maya , you can control it .
i trust you .
come on .
gabes eyes are big and sad , and i feel again that whiplash certainty that ive known him my entire life that maybe i can trust him .
he gives me a small smile , but cant keep the tremor out of his extended hand .
come on , he says again .
i peel off my glove and reach through gabes glowing aura to take his hand .
our fingers interlace .
the orbs push up with a mad insistence , but i keep the skin of my palms anchored down .
this is pain burning toward implosion .
if i could transfer this agony into a scream , i think the moon would hear it .
im trusting you with my life right now , gabe says softly .
its because i believe youre not an angel .
its because i want to help you .
tarren and i are the only ones who understand what youre going through .
were the only ones who can protect you from grand .
and together , were going to defeat him and all the other angels .
there is nothing harder , nor more painful than not killing gabe right now .
with a guttural moan , i tear my hand from his grip , stagger away from his pulsing energy and press my palms against the front of my legs .
i taste blood where ive bitten through my lip .
the tears are hot on my cheeks , dripping off my chin .
itsall too much , i gasp .
my body is so exhausted from the strain that i can hardly stand .
i cant do this .
none of it even makes sense .
my brother and i have been fighting our whole lives , gabe says , and weve seen awful things maya .
things i cant even begin to describe .
and weve lost a lot , just like you .
but just because bad things happen doesnt mean the fight isnt worth fighting .
and it doesnt mean we cant find some measure of happiness even so .
youre my sister , and im going to protect you .
i wont let you slip .
i wont let you fall .
tarren is working on an antidote , and hes a fucking genius , so hell figure it out soon .
we wont let grand touch you .
ever again .
gabe walks over to tarren .
the brothers clasp arms , and gabe pulls tarren up off the ground .
no more cuffs , gabe says .
ever .
from now on we trust each other .
all of us .
were the only family weve got left .
agreed ?
the silence stretches , and i watch small sparks of energy scurrying along the tree limbs .
luminous eyes blink , curious at my plight .
agreed , tarren mutters .
they both look to me .
i can still hear the highway close by .
i could beat them to it , though whether to flag down a motorist or throw myself in front of an eighteen wheeler , i dont know .
okay , i whisper .
it takes tarren fifteen minutes to find his gun in the thick brush around us .
we walk back in silence , keeping to a slow pace so gabe can nurse his twisted ankle .
he runs his fingers through his hair trying to tame the wild strands .
tarren is sulky and silent .
just before we make it back to the motel , i find a stray cat wandering the empty streets .
the boys wait .
it hisses as i approach .
afterwards , i curl up on the sidewalk , rocking back and forth and shuddering with the need to keep feeding .
the song rears up so loud it drowns out everything but the certainty that i must hold back .
my entire body is tight and sore and aflame with hunger .
i am so utterly alone in this .
i stand up , dizzy and weak , and drop the cats body into an alleyway dumpster .
see ?
easier .
gabe says .
one by one , we slip back through the open window to our room .
we take turns washing our feet off in the tub .
gabe and i go to our beds , and tarren lies back down on the floor .
we all close our eyes and pretend to sleep .
i can not know what they are thinking , but their minds must be laced with doubts .
i try to ignore the song and what it tells me to do .
instead , i find ryan in my thoughts and conjure ways to make him smile .
chapter 17 ill be fine , i say .
sunlight filters through the window , and i turn my face toward it .
sure ?
gabe asks .
hes sitting on the bed with his laptop open in front of him .
yeah , but next time i pick the color .
i hold up the box of hair dye .
colorsilk burgundy , i purr with a lavish accent that earns me a hesitant smile .
were both playing nice , and tarren was good enough to go check on things as soon as it got close enough to dawn .
the scissors have a sharp sic to them as they shear away my long locks .
the metaphor is too simplistic a physical transformation that embodies the inner evolution .
sic .
de evolution ?
perhaps it depends on who you ask .
a life gone .
i thought i was doing okay .
a new life .
definitely not okay .
as not okay as can be imagined .
sic .
no .
this is unimaginable .
this is bordering on sci fi graphic novel without the huge tits and witty comebacks .
sic .
this is fire and fears and a terrible face i cant get out of my mind .
this is the loss of everything .
sic .
the hair swings back just beneath my chin .
i pause halfway through the haircut so that i can be both the old me and the new me at the same time .
this will be our only meeting .
i should have prepared something appropriate for the funeral and for the welcome party .
some last words on human maya she had problems but was dealing alright in what i believe is a very difficult world no matter who you are or where you come from .
maya enjoyed peanut butter and jelly sandwiches very much .
she was on the track team in high school , even though she wasnt very fast and had a tendency to develop shin splints halfway through each season .
she used to hate sarah hendrickson until they became best friends .
then sarah got pregnant and stopped hanging out .
maya had a mother who treated her alright between bouts of asthma , panic attacks , suspected gout and a strange taste in her mouth that was almost certainly indicative of a malignant brain tumor .
maya even had a dad who would say hey there kid when they passed each other on the roads of their very separate lives .
he always bought her awesome christmas presents .
now a few words to introduce monster maya she prefers raw alley cats to peanut butter and jelly sandwiches .
shes not on the track team anymore , which is a shame considering that she can run fast now .
real fast .
she doesnt have any friends , but she does have two brand new brothers .
they are both very goal oriented individuals and talented in select weaponry .
gabe tries too hard to be funny .
hes overcompensating for something possibly that his hobby includes regularly killing people or that he has to hang out with the worlds most morose person every day .
which brings us to tarren .
monster maya might get to help him with some science experiments if he doesnt kill her first .
or she doesnt kill him .
its really all up in the air at this point .
one last thing about monster maya .
she doesnt have a mother anymore , but she does have a father .
theirs is a somewhat strained relationship .
its the typical father daughter trope .
he wants her in the family business .
she has other plans .
hes looking for water under the bridge .
she will find a way to destroy him .
brutally .
possibly involving guns or daggers or throwing stars , or her bare hands .
monster maya doesnt get shin splints anymore .
sic , sic , sic .
one more lock of hair dangling behind my left ear .
sic .
i sit on the toilet , eyes watering as my hair absorbs the potent chemicals .
i am now convinced that ryan and i were desperately in love .
engaged practically , though the topic never came up .
i can not recall a single argument between us .
he had not one bad habit that got on my nerves .
our time together is ringed with soft white lighting around the edges .
his voice was always soft , full of endearments .
our relationship was filled with laughter , adventure and great sex that never got awkward or just a tiny bit boring sometimes .
this leads me to my second train of thought how i will kill grand .
the aforementioned daggers , throwing stars and bare hands are considered , but what i must really plan is the winning condemnation i will lay upon his dying ears .
something grave , deep and utterly cutting which will elevate my victory to heroic , bard singing levels .
i throw open the bathroom door and ask gabe for a pen and paper .
holding his nose , he obliges , and here is what i come up with this is for ryan !
short , simple , poignant , yet clich .
you wanted a daughter ?
well , you got one !
upon further reflection , this one doesnt make a whole lot of sense .
you took everything from me , the man i loved , even my own humanity .
its only fair that i return the favor .
i imagine delivering this in a half choked whisper as i twist the dagger i have already plunged into his chest .
eventually , i settle on something different .
each word is memorized instantly , though i plan on repeating them to myself every night before i fall asleep .
just so that im ready when the moment comes .
they will become my mantra an invocation of the hate and vengeance that have filled this new hollowed body i own .
it feels good to have a purpose .
these are the words i will say as grand gurgles his last blood soaked breath at my feet everything you ever stood for will be forgotten .
i will bury your body so deep in the ground that no one will ever dig you up .
ill rid this world of every single one of your angels of death .
i will soak your dreams in blood and burn them to ash .
there wont be a speck of you left , and the world will be a better place for it .
goodbye father .
i step into the shower and raise up my face to the spray of water .
monster maya smiles for the first time .
part 2 chapter 18 rust blooms across the sign pointing to farewell , colorado .
it must be a strange weed the locals havent figure out how to kill .
i see it climbing up the buildings , sneaking under windowsills and lacing dusty cars sitting on the side of the road .
i put down gabes psp and look out the window .
farewell is a battered town , holding itself together with stubborn grit .
an old town of old men and old women grown gray together .
the temperature is dropping quickly as evening sets in .
i can feel the air thinning , and i wonder if i would have noticed before , or if this is another new thing i can do better .
i keep forgetting not to think .
it dont stand out , thats for sure , gabe says from the front seat .
he crosses his arms behind his head .
like all superheroes , weve got to live on the down low .
tarren makes a noise in the back of his throat .
i keep my gaze out the window , noting a mom pop antique shop pressed between a kfc and a boxy off colored walgreens .
the stores dry up , and the road becomes more playful , sneaking cracks and potholes under our wheels .
bushy fir trees hug in close to the road , and i catch swatches of larger houses set far back into wooded lots .
sometimes thin mailboxes peeking from the foliage are the only flag of life .
farewell to civilization , gabe says with a laugh .
lots of retirees come out here .
land is cheap .
no one bothers you .
just get yourself a life alert system and youre golden .
francescas out , tarren murmurs .
gabe perks up in his seat , and so do i , responding instantly as his aura pulses bright violet streaks .
my hat .
eh ?
tarren says .
the lucky one .
ah yes , the lucky one .
maya , quick !
gabe twists around in his seat to hammer me with his eyes .
my bag .
its in my bag .
i stare at his energy , at that purple saturation , with longing .
slow down you fucker , gabe hisses to tarren .
then , come on maya .
team effort .
i unbuckle my seatbelt and pull the seat down to access the trunk .
brown duffle bag .
i know , i say as i grab the strap .
weve got to be careful , tarren begins .
your jealousy of our love is pitiful , gabe retorts as i toss the bag to him .
he rifles through it as the car slows .
plus , dr. lees a total hermit .
no tv , no newspapers .
the world could be enslaved by intergalactic overlords and he wouldnt even notice .
ah !
gabe exclaims as he wrestles the dingy white hat from his bag .
i look out and see a neat cabin bordered by looming pine and spruce .
a thick carpet of orange pine needles covers the ground , and an american flag rustles from a protruding deck .
a woman is tipping a large watering can over the window box flowers .
i notice right away that she is shamelessly over imbued with good features .
clearly she got to the body part bins before all the other little kids .
i imagine her taking off with long tan legs , butterfly lashes , pink lemonade lips and glossy black hair while i elbow through the crowds trying to find something with a little less warts on it .
tarren stops the car and gabe hat in place presses the window button .
when his window doesnt budge , he turns to his brother .
if you try to keep us apart , i will kill you .
i swear it .
in your sleep .
you have to sleep tarren .
tarren smiles a handsome big brother smile , and the window goes down .
the air carries scents of pine sap and loose soil .
francesca !
gabe calls out to her .
he tosses his bag at me , and i manage to catch it just before it plows into my face .
the woman turns and waves , presenting a round face , smooth , coffee colored skin and a sheen of blue emerald energy pulsing with vitality .
utterly shameless .
buongiorno , gabe says , grinning as she approaches .
francescas smile belongs on a box of teeth whitener .
she sets the watering container next to her foot and leans against the mailbox .
buongiorno gabe .
hi tarren .
you boys back in town , eh ?
good tradeshow ?
her voice is threaded with a light accent that extenuates her os and rs almost like shes purring .
oh , tarren , your face .
what happened this time ?
got punched out on the show floor by one of our clients , gabe jumps in .
terribly embarrassing , but i did end up selling the guy 160 licenses of our data management software upgrade .
broke a company record actually , but whos counting .
francesca crosses her arms over her chest .
why are you always so mean to your big brother , huh ?
he watches out for you .
he does good , honest work here .
always polite .
not a mean bone in his body .
right , tarren ?
right , tarren nods .
i almost choke on my spit .
did you know that he drowns baby kittens ?
gabe says .
its his only passion in life .
gabe !
francesca exclaims .
always lies and that big smile .
oh .
francesca sees me through the window .
hello .
hi , i say and make a genuine effort to keep my gaze affixed to her face instead of the beautiful waves of energy that cloak her body .
this is our cousin maya , tarren says .
he keeps his tone casual .
she just got out of school and is staying with us for a while .
oh , well , its nice to meet you , but you better watch out for this one , francesca nods towards gabe .
he thinks hes sooo cute and clever .
lies , gabe says .
im incredibly handsome and clever .
his energy is fluttering like humming bird wings .
the purple shades grow dark as wine .
i force myself not to stare .
how is dr. lee doing ?
tarren asks .
okay , francesca turns toward the house .
grumpy as ever .
the summer is better for him .
he goes outside to read during the day .
he likes to be in the sun .
me too , i say for no reason .
looks like the lawn needs some work , tarren says .
he gives me a warning glare through the rearview mirror .
yeah , francesca tugs on her jean skirt .
come by any time tarren .
theres always something to do .
raking up all these pine needles .
then a good mow and putting in seeds .
whenever you have time .
we always need help keeping this place together .
youre doing a great job , gabe says .
dr. lee is lucky to have a girl like you helping him out .
he has a good heart , francesca says , and her voice softens .
he respects you so much tarren , and he still speaks of your mother sometimes .
she sounds like an amazing person .
she was , tarren says .
his energy flicks .
tell dr. lee hello from me and my brother .
ill give him a call when we get settled .
we got ta get some groceries and supplies in the morning .
make up a list of what you need , and ill pick it up while im in town .
okay , francesca says .
she shivers , and i watch goose bumps pattern along her arms and legs .
i watch her energy too .
and tarrens .
mostly gabes , though .
still humming bird wings .
well , its always good to have you boys back .
i hope you stay for a while this time , francesca says .
hard to say , tarren replies .
he turns the engine on .
nice to meet you maya .
she raises her hand in greeting .
yeah , i say .
see ya !
gabe calls after her even as tarren closes the windows .
when the car moves on , gabe falls back against the seat .
she doesnt know it yet , but shes in love with me , he says .
i could tell that she totally wanted you , i respond .
in the worst kind of way , gabe confirms .
he twists around in his seat , so that his bright eyes are peering at me .
the smile hasnt left his face .
when this is all over , im going to marry her .
were gon na have beautiful children .
and wild sex .
twice a day .
the road gives way to gravel , and the muranos tires dig in .
shadows from the trees sweep over us in bands .
we turn into a long driveway .
dont miss your line , tarren says to his brother .
oh yeah , gabe sighs .
home sweet home .
i gaze out through the windshield , and the only thing i can think is , i already had a home .
chapter 19 the house of the fox brothers stamps a generous footprint across a scraggly plot of land .
gray brick meets green siding at the second story , just above the garage .
the paint is peeling and rust eats its way up the gutters .
the front lawn is made up of patches of long crab grass with bright dandelion heads peeking out from their midst .
ready ?
gabe asks me .
sure , i lie .
i want to stay in the car .
forever .
i want to not be thinking of my apartment and all the books gathering so much dust .
avalon mocking on the wall .
ryan not there .
the ghosts of my dreams rattling chains and moaning softly .
gabe and tarren shoulder their bags and tromp into the house .
i follow timidly and stop just inside the door .
my first impression is that the house seems empty and plain .
i assumed it would be messier , more boyish and rough lived .
the living room looks cared for just enough , though everything seems old and overused .
there is a distinct lack of strong colors .
nothing hangs on the white walls , the wooden floors are wanting in wax , and the furniture is minimalblue cloth couch , boxy television sitting on a chipped stand .
theres an xbox and a precarious tower of dvds next to the tv .
oh , i say softly .
we have an ad out on craigslist for a stuffy british butler , but so far , no luck , gabe says .
he is my rambling tour guide , and his energy ticks with nervousness .
tarren is edgy too , tracking us from room to room without a word .
we move to the kitchen with its glass cabinets and long counters .
the table is all scratched and nicked .
dishes are piled in the sink and reeking of dried spaghetti sauce and salad dressing .
i notice a crack in the wall beside the back door .
the dining room is next , which isnt a dining room at all .
this is gabes office , and hes set up three plasma computer monitors on his desk , bookended by bose speakers .
on the top shelf , above the monitors , a terrible battle wages between two opposing armies of action figures .
the destruction is intricately choreographed .
x men face off against gi joes .
spiderman and batman have teamed up against conan and some round eyed , large breasted anime character .
a ninja turtle stands proudly over the broken body of a ken doll .
you know , got ta have fun with your job , gabe is saying behind me .
see if you can find the care bear .
heres a hint , it aint got a head anymore .
he pauses , and i think hes actually waiting for a laugh .
this is so awkward .
i try , really try , not to compare this shabby little house with my love filled apartment or with the immaculate , airy home i grew up in .
i shouldnt look at this as a prison or a punishment .
i need to stay in the present , let each second crest and break over me without resistance .
what do you think , basement next ?
gabe looks to his brother .
shell see it soon enough , tarren says .
were all tired .
lets just go upstairs .
on the second floor of the house the boys pause in front of the first door , and we all wait for someone else to open it .
i shift , but gabe is already reaching forward .
and , your room , madam .
he twists the knob and opens the door into the master bedroom .
we werent exactly planning on having anyuh , he stumbles for a word .
coerced guests ?
i raise an eyebrow .
gabe frowns at my joke , because , of course , it isnt really a joke .
we werent planning on having anyone over , he clarifies , but its , i dont know , pretty big .
youve got your own bathroom .
thats important for girls , right ?
i walk to the king bed and run my hand along the thick , white comforter .
the bay window is painted black by the night sky .
it hasnt been opened in a long while .
the air in the room is stale and heavy , tinted with old perfume and lazy dust particles .
the dust .
a fine layer lies across the floor , clings to the mirror of the vanity and gathers in the folds of the white curtains .
i open my mouth to utter some sort of shaky compliment , but my attention is snatched away .
bookshelves .
the boys are still standing in the doorway , but i have forgotten about them .
i reach out and trace my fingers along the spines of the books , swallowing hot sparks each time i recognize a title from my own collection .
i breathe in the musk of aging paper and ink , and the aroma is so much more powerful than i remember .
for a moment i am back in my apartment .
chapped lips on my shoulders .
vanilla .
then i catch sight of something even more compelling .
little staggering steps take me to the second bookshelf .
for a moment , i am distracted as energy flares around both boys .
then , i pick up the first silver framed photograph and stare at the face of my mother .
diana is smiling softly and ducking her head to avoid the camera .
i imagine the person on the other side of the lens is goading her to look up .
my mother .
i think she might be beautiful , but my mind is rushing in so many different directions i can hardly pull out any coherent thoughts .
slim , round shoulders .
wavy , caramel colored hair .
the nose i dont like that looks better on her and best on tarren .
a finely carved face , just like the little boy and girl standing next to her .
the children are made up of skinny legs and knobby knees .
they hold hands .
for a strange , white pulsing moment , i forget that karen and henry adopted me as an infant , and i wonder if the girl is me .
but no , her brown hair is twisted into neat braids , and she has bright , golden eyes that are unafraid of the camera .
the dark haired boy is looking down at his sandals .
a toddler with thick , sandy curls sits on his mothers lap , reaching up for her shiny hoop earring .
im the cute one , gabe says awkwardly .
neither he nor tarren have breached the threshold of the room .
i ignore them and pick up a wedding photo .
my mothers hair is feathered and long .
her head is thrown back , and she is laughing as the groom hooks her in his arms .
his brown elf eyes spark with pleasure , and his mischief mouth is cocked into a wide grin .
long , fluid limbs and dark hair combed back give him a hint of feral strength .
canton and diana .
in love .
very young .
all the lines on their faces come from the smiles they wear .
tarren and gabe each strongly favor one parent , and now i know why they dont look much like each other .
baby pictures .
i can tell them apart immediately .
tarrens gray blue eyes .
gabes honey curls .
the mystery little girl who mixes both their features well .
the little boy and girl on swings .
the family at the beach .
a picture of the girl standing on her fathers shoes , his hands enveloping hers .
white fluffy dress , little black shoes and a crooked birthday hat on her head .
canton looks down at her with a warm smile .
there are different lines on his face now .
deeper .
tired .
there are no later pictures .
the family seems to linger only in those early years .
i hold out the beach photo to the boys .
you have another sister , i say tapping the grinning little girl who wears a purple bathing suit with a bright pink flower on the front .
her ponytail is wet and crooked as if she has just come out from the waves .
not anymore .
scarlet webs through tarrens aura .
he turns and walks away .
gabes smile falters .
she died , he says softly .
her name was tammy .
oh .
quantum queen of tact .
i put the picture back on the shelf .
ill tell you about it later , but its been a long day , gabe says .
me and tarren are just down the hall .
my rooms first on the left .
next is a bathroom and then a closet with towels and stuff .
tarrens at the end .
always knock .
its kind of a rule for any closed doors .
wait , i call as he turns to leave .
this was dianas room ?
yeah , gabe leans forward against the doorway .
weve always been meaning to clean it out , do something with it , but i guess weve got all the rooms we need already .
no one goes in here now .
thats not true , i say without thinking .
my mind is far away , pinging off book titles , the growing hunger , my mothers blue eyes .
tarren doesnt come in here , but you do .
your scent is there , on the edge of the bed .
you must come in to look at the pictures .
theyre the only things without dust on them .
i notice gabes flushing cheeks and realize my mistake .
quantum queen of tact .
oh , yeah , well , he murmurs .
sure , you have the enhanced senses .
he looks away , and i see his real face again .
the gold flecked eyes are shy and shamed .
his smile is gone , replaced by a taunt mouth that puts too many creases into his skin .
he looks so much like his father .
gabe , im sorry , i say .
no , its fine , he lies .
its just that i dont really remember whenwhen we were happy , so sometimes i like to come up here andi dont know .
its okay , i say brilliantly .
yeah , he steps back from the doorway and shoves his hands in his pockets .
if you need anything , just knock .
okay , well , goodnight maya .
goodnight , i say .
gabe closes the door .
i sit on the edge of the bed and listen to his steps retreat down the hall .
chapter 20 i spend the first hour of the night committing the pictures to memory , tracing each face with my finger again and again , staring into the vacant eyes of my long lost family and imagining character traits .
canton would have gabes laugh a free , warm chuckle .
he teases .
diana is more serious .
she can turn her face into granite like tarren .
her voice goes all soft and dangerous when she is angry .
the little girl , tammy , is boisterous and aggressive .
gabe is a gurgling infant , the happy kind that never cries .
but what to make of tarren ?
every picture displays his down turned head and little balled fists .
the night feels too long , and im not tired .
i take my time circling the room , running my eyes over every surface .
i peek into the closet and find it empty .
nothing under the bed either .
i re read each title on the bookshelf and notice an empty wedge of space between the illiad and the aeneid .
i sit on the bed and dont think about ryan , dont replay his death over and over so many times that that it runs smooth as a dvd in my head , dont craft and decorate exotic grand murdering fantasies and especially dont linger on sall the questions huddled together in my mind , heavy and unbearable .
but i dont cry .
that part really is true .
instead , i calmly pick at my wrists , only its hardly any use at all .
new skin has already knitted neatly over the gashes , and im sure this is another angel thing .
or whatever i am now .
i slide my fingers through my short hair .
the prickly ends remind me that this is real , but i dont really need any more convincing .
the song lingers inside me that need for something that tugs and taunts all day long and roars like chalkboard scratches at night .
and its still night , and im still not tired , and i cant take this not thinking about stuff anymore .
so i slip out the window , glad for the cold air .
pulling myself up and over onto the roof is surprisingly easy , though i know i wouldnt have been able to do it before .
im thinking it might be peaceful up here , but it isnt .
the property around the house devolves into thick woods .
my attention is drawn by leaping sparks of energy all about me and the scents of so many new things .
my body responds , hands growing hot and glowing .
yes , i hold them out in front of me and see that the tips of my fingers give off a pale hedge of light .
its time to know what i can do .
carpe noctem .
the trees hold out their limbs for me , and i leap , adjusting intuitively to land cat soft onto the nearest one .
i pounce onto another branch then clutch one above and swing myself easily around and up onto my feet .
i take a deep breath and exhale slow with reverence .
this is an entirely new body , acrobatic and strong like an elite gymnast .
graceful .
intuitive .
swift .
so many new adjectives that i can rightfully commandeer .
thrilling .
terrifying .
powerful .
the cleave of monster and human .
something catches my attention .
my body is moving , leaving my thoughts behind .
the prey is a sharp bright point skittering across a branch next to me .
i crouch .
the energy roils inside of me .
my heart beats loud thuds that join the high cricket strings .
it fills my ears , sweet drum .
strong drum .
companion hunter .
i leap , swinging , hands ripping on the harsh bark , but i couldnt care .
just blood .
so close .
for a moment i am hurtling through the air .
wind kissing my face .
just the emptiness and that little dot of energy growing larger .
the squirrel is frozen in fear , its heart throbbing mad , making me crazy .
i snatch it right off the branch as i fall .
its dead before i land .
i wake up on the roof and notice my gloves are gone .
the sun is just coming up .
deep gouges score my palms and forearms .
i remember and shiver .
monster maya is werewolf maya .
i think i was still in control , and it was only a squirrel after all , a perfectly acceptable snack .
a noise .
doorknob turning .
i jump , grab the edge of the roof with my left hand as i fall , swing through the bay window , let go and skid onto my bed , grabbing up the blanket as i roll .
tarren cracks open the door and beholds a maya tortilla wrapped in blankets with eyes closed , face smooth and serene in slumber .
he stands there for a while and then closes the door .
i let out my breath in a big whoosh and untangle myself from the blankets .
even as i begin pulling long wooden splinters from my skin , i follow tarrens energy as he moves through the house .
when he steps outside , i scramble back up onto the roof and stretch out onto my stomach .
tarren stands below me looking out along the empty gravel road .
i can only see the back of his head , but i imagine his face is grim and determined .
he takes off running , red pain springing up in his aura near his injured rib .
his fluid gait reveals a natural athleticism .
there are heavy things on his mind .
dark things .
what happened to the shy boy in the photographs ?
gabe cradles a bowl of drowned cereal in his arm as he clicks through emails .
all three computer monitors are alight .
bluegrass twangs from the speakers on his desk as he flips across tabs in his browsers , pulling up and quickly dismissing page after page .
he flinches when he catches me out of the corner of his eye .
jesus , put some bells on or something , he says with a smile .
morning , i reply .
youre wearing the same jeans from yesterday .
changed my shirt though .
even hit some deodorant now that weve got a girl in the house .
youre welcome .
hes expecting a retort back , but my throat has gone tight .
im ready to cry all over again , because im suddenly so grateful that hes treating me like a normal person and so terrified because hes also treating me like a sister .
i caught a squirrel , i tell him .
gabe spins around in his chair and looks me over , noting my dirt streaked elbows and pine needle hair accessories .
did it have a crooked tail ?
he asks .
the squirrel ?
no , i dont think so .
good .
i like that one .
hes like boss of the squirrels .
its cool .
gabe spins back around and leaves the spoon sticking out his mouth as he opens another email .
oh , and you probably shouldnt tell tarren about the whole squirrel killing thing , he mumbles .
he can bewell , sometimes its just better not to tell him things .
i study the warring action figures arranged on the shelf above gabes computers .
a cylon from battlestar galactica is locked in deadly combat with a samurai sword wielding bratz doll .
disgraced green army men lay where they fell .
i cant imagine the fused feet were anything but a liability .
wolverine has his claws plunged through a happy meal shrek figurine .
eyes stare out at me from the left computer screen , and i turn and take note of a young girl positioned and smiling in the fake way of a school picture .
she looks a little like my freshmen roommate .
same upturned nose and long neck .
rachel must be in class right now .
listening .
studying .
not being a monster .
the girl on the computer screen is not in class .
her picture on the screen accompanies her obituary .
did you , uh , i try to be cool about this .
is this an angel you , uh they do kill people , i remind myself .
lots of people .
no , not us , gabe follows my gaze .
but someone did , or something .
obits are how we find them .
angels .
he nods to the computer screen .
google alerts are the greatest thing ever except for keira knightley .
basically , i set specific search terms , and google trolls through all the news and sends back anything that matches .
and you look for dead people ?
right o .
gabe spins his chair around , so that he faces me again .
mostly heart attacks between the ages of 15 45 but also radiation poisoning and , of course , unexplained causes as the catch all for the rest .
thats a lot of obitswait , radiation poisoning ?
failed angles .
not everyone survives the infection process .
it wreaks havoc on your body , screwing up your dna , no offense .
for some people , their bodies give out .
radiation is a strong component of the process .
sometimes the coroner cant figure out any other cause of death , so they say radiation poisoning .
wha la , failed angel .
and where theres one dead angel body on fire .
turning , twisting , contorting into something else entirely .
every cell exploding in my veins .
bones shattering like glass .
the fear of not knowing what is happening or if it will ever stop .
oh , i say when gabe raises his eyebrows .
uh , where theres one angel , there are bound to be others .
bingo , yahtzee and connect four .
and heart attacks ?
iced .
angels kill by absorbing a victims energy .
its what they feed off of .
as the angel is sucking up the energy , the victims heart just gives out .
its what actually kills the person .
heart attack .
but ryan had such a strong heart .
i would lay my head against his chest and i swallow .
you said iced ?
oh yeah , well angels suck away body heat with everything else .
victims are ice cold .
thats how i tell a regular heart attack from an angel .
autopsy will show a way low body temp at death .
ryan cold and dead and alone .
frozen on the pavement while i fly away .
warm breath stolen .
hot lips chilled .
gabe continues , if i find a heart attack where i shouldnt , say a healthy 30 year old athlete , i look for other unexplained or strange deaths in the area or a spate of missing persons .
thats how we find them .
he clicks a tab on the middle screen to reveal a map of the united states smattered with multi colored pins .
google maps are the shit .
google should just take over the world , seriously , gabe says .
this map is totally interactive .
i load on all my suspicious obits those are the red pins and look for patterns .
his mouse grazes across the screen , and each pin lights up with notes .
names .
dates .
modes of death .
most of the angels move around a lot , gabe continues .
its the only way not to get caught .
by following a wake of bodies , we can put together a crude trail .
if i confirm angel , the pins turn white , and we load up the car and go .
i dont know how to be cool or good about this , so i just tell the truth .
thats really creepy .
gabe shrugs , i just kind of zone out while i do it , you know , here he makes quotes with his fingerscompartmentalize .
theres a note of bravado in his voice while he offers this explanation , and all of this is so wrong , so dark and twisted .
how can two guys living out in the middle of nowhere be fighting a war ?
heres the part where i would have asked all about grand and all about diana and what happened to tammy and all those other big , mean , skittish questions im sure of it except that tarren walks through the door .
hes dripping sweat , face flushed , but its his own fault for wearing long sleeves and pants on such a warm day .
practice in half an hour , he says to gabe , but one of us should stay here .
well , i got ta do a ton of work on the websites anyway , gabe says .
did i tell you about the new one im putting together ?
hatershatingtogether .
ridiculous , tarren mutters under his breath .
gabe doesnt hear him , but i do .
okay , tarren says louder .
you stay , but get in a workout .
sure , sure , but ill probably go easy , you know , the ankle .
not too easy .
its 8 00 in the morning , and tarren is already firing on all cylinders .
his aura is taut , ticking up and down like an animal on the prowl .
so many dark hues shifting within his blues .
it makes me nervous .
so do his eyes , and that scar .
actually , everything about tarren unnerves me .
even superman had a day job .
chapter 21 after tarren leaves , gabe is overly attentive to my needs .
i assume this means tarren tasked him with maya sentry duty .
probably warned him that i was liable to go on a murderous rampage if let out of sight .
gabe wants to know if im thirsty , if i want to watch one of his vast collection of bruce lee movies , if there are any video games i like or music i want to hear .
do i know any good chuck norris jokes ?
the only thing i know is that i want to go home .
the only thing i want is ryan alive and grand dead but only after lots of suffering .
what i say out loud is im fine , im fine , im fine infinity plus one .
this last assertion wins a chuckle from gabe , but , more importantly , he stops asking me stupid questions .
my turn .
when do we find grand ?
i ask .
when do you start training me ?
uh fine yellow hues pulse through gabes aura .
later , he says .
want to go work out in the basement ?
i mean , i dont have to just because tarren said so .
he thinks hes the leader of the team , but its likedude , theres no team .
its just me , and i think youre full of shit .
we stare at each other .
we got weights and stuff down there .
sure .
groaning stairs lead us down into a musty room with unpainted concrete walls .
it is cooler down here , shadowy and bare .
an old couch stands in the corner , stained and frayed and looking like it would be comfortable on the porch of a frat house or hanging out on any local curb .
i know what a bloodstain looks like , but i dont ask .
gabe is showing off a scuffed pool table , noting that two of the balls are missing , but since they are one solid and one stripe , it works out just fine .
a cardboard cutout of keira knightley pouts in the corner .
shes in full pirates of the caribbean regalia tight bodice , long skirt , feathered hair and dark , sultry eyes .
she likes to watch me work out , gabe says .
cant say i blame her .
its not every day you get front row seating at the gun show .
he makes a bicep for keira and kisses it .
i roll my eyes .
the gym consists of scattered free weights and an exercise ball on the floor , a bench and weight rack , and a pull up bar hanging from a door frame on the other side of the room .
fox cave , gabe nods to the door .
fox cave ?
you know , like the bat cave .
its where we plan stuff .
strategize .
gabe shrugs like this is obvious .
oh , that other door down there is tarrens lab .
dont bother him in the lab unless its important .
hes real pissy about that .
i dont ask what tarren does in his lab .
im getting that dizzy sick feeling again the one where my brain starts edging toward the door , ready to flee this new , insane reality .
gabe lies back on the bench , reaches up and wraps his hands around a bar loaded with weight .
the bar is clearly stacked for tarren , but gabe sets his face , hauls in a heavy breath and pulls the bar up and out of the rack .
i perch on the couch , away from the bloodstain and watch how his energy quickens and turns dark at the edges as he strains to lower the bar .
something about being down here , about gabe and the way his face is flushing red as he tries to show off , eases my tension .
i begin asking small , safe ish questions .
between grunts and gasps , gabe tells me that he is 22 .
his favorite color is usually blue , but sometimes green and sometimes the bright yellow of highlighters .
tarren is 26 .
gabe doesnt know his favorite color .
when theyre not on a mission , the fox brothers train almost constantly .
theyve erected a makeshift shooting range in the backyard and take fighting classes in pueblo and even up in colorado springs .
gabe lists them off mixed martial arts on monday and wednesday , krav magna on friday and sunday , crossfit on tuesday and thursday .
yoga on saturday .
on the fifth rep , the bar tilts to the left as gabe pushes it up with trembling arms .
i think its going to topple sideways , but with a grunt he gets it up and drops it with a heavy clang onto the rack .
youve got to reachmuscle failure s how you bulk up , he informs me through panting breaths .
if keira starts swooningmake sure andcatch her .
i look at his thin , boys body and hide my smirk with another question .
yoga , really ?
that was my idea actually , gabe grins and sits up on the bench .
i convinced tarren that it helps with flexibility and concentration and gave us a day to recover so we could beat the hell out of ourselves all over again the next week .
deep purple humming bird wings are taking flight in his aura , and i think i know where this is going .
and ?
and maybe francesca happens to take the same class .
total coincidence .
it seems we both have very centered souls .
the red is dropping out of gabes face but stays in his cheeks .
does her downward dog happen to be at the center of your soul ?
oh , youre dirty .
thats just , well , god , shes really flexible .
and her hair , sometimes it gets loose .
you should come with .
just dont , like , start doing finger pushups or anything .
got to keep the super powers on the down low .
i try to laugh .
super powers .
not exactly .
gabe moves on to pushups , executes twenty , thirty , forty with ease .
i am highly attuned to his energy , how it rises up as he begins to reach his limit .
his head drops .
eyes squeeze shut .
hes distracted , vulnerable .
a new and dark awareness is awake inside of me .
i know exactly how quickly i could leap from the couch , how i would subdue him and connect to his energy before he could counter my attack .
this is the sense of a predator , the mind of a monster .
gabe rolls over and wipes his face on his shirt .
so many moments open for attack .
such blue , bright energy he has .
gabe looks at me , tugs his shirt back down and smiles in this awkward , sheepish way .
i pretend like nothings wrong .
horribly , terribly , irreparably wrong .
i still cant believe youre here , he mutters .
to mask the fact that i kinda want to drain him , i break eye contact with gabe , thrust myself up from the couch and walk over to the pull up bar .
i jump up and hang .
how do you get the guns ?
i ask to break the silence .
gun shows .
gabe lies against the ball and crunches up .
gun shows are regulated .
i dont get the gunsat the showi getthe contacts .
he speaks with the rhythm of his motion .
god blessparanoid libertarians .
before , when i was human , i could do exactly one pull up .
i was very , very proud of that pull up .
now , my chin rises up to the bar easily as if my body were filled with hollow bird bones .
it seems impossible , i say to gabe , that you can just buy all this illegal stuff that you can kill people without getting caught .
gabe laughs and sits up on the ball .
remember this , its important .
whatever you want , you can get it .
guns , drugs , people , credit card numbers , whatever .
as long as they cant find you , they cant stop you .
how can that possibly work ?
its not easy , but its doable .
especially online .
there are ways to cover your tracks , to be anonymous or to be someone else entirely .
if you got the right skill set , you can go anywhere , find anything , do anything and never get caught .
as long as they dont know who you are , they cant find you .
and if they cant find you , they cant stop you , i finish .
bingo , yahtzee , and connect four .
you just learned a very important life lesson .
gabes enjoying himself .
everything he just said terrifies the piss out of me .
but if you do get caught i venture .
not an option .
but if you do how many is that ?
throughout our conversation , ive been steadily pulling myself up to the bar .
i dont know .
i drop down , brush my hands on my jeans .
no , no , keep going , gabe says , but i shake my head .
its okay maya , its cool .
i look at gabe , at his free smile and bright elf eyes .
he does think its cool .
little boy lost in his comic books .
tarren returns to the house in the evening and unloads groceries from the car .
relieved of guard duty , gabe steps outside and is soon arguing with his cell phone .
the last item that tarren brings in is a dune colored guinea pig .
its a small thing and huddles in the corner of its cardboard box .
poor little dinner .
nah man , smith and wesson , sd40 .
no baggage on it .
gabes voice carries to my sensitive ears .
i dont got a week .
dont kill that at the table , tarren nods toward the guinea pig .
shame unfurls in my chest .
yes , i would have killed the guinea pig at the table .
its everything i can do to hold myself back this long .
i want to grab its soft body in my fist and squeeze .
i look at the animal now , concentrating on the shivering body beneath its bright , energy .
i had a guinea pig once .
she was a tawny orange color , so i called her cheez it , my favorite snack at the sophisticated age of seven .
i fed her pellets every morning and then mixed salad and chopped carrots at night .
i remember taking her out after school and putting her in my lap , amazed that i owned this living , breathing , wonderful creature .
i pick up the box .
ill take it upstairs .
well , okay , tarren shrugs .
later , when the little brown guinea pig is iced and tossed out the back window , i hear a soft knock on the door .
i would have expected gabe , except that i feel tarrens ticking energy waiting on the other side .
i let him in , but he pauses at the threshold .
tarren is very good at keeping his face calm , but there are things he can not hide from me .
little by little , i am learning to read secrets in the ever frayed patterns of color and movement within his aura .
tarren doesnt give away his exhaustion , but i can see it in how low his energy lays across his frame .
the rib is killing him each breath stitches red through the murky blue .
i wonder why he is so relentless in his concealment of vulnerability .
come in , i tell him softly .
tarren sees the sympathy on my face , frowns and steps into the room , dropping several bags at the foot of my bed .
we got most of the clothes and things on the list , he says .
he is looking straight ahead .
not at me or the pictures .
and this .
gabe picked it out .
he said you were a mac .
probably not a good idea , but he trails off as he hands me the box tucked beneath his arm .
tarrens fingers brush my wrist .
he flinches .
the hunger is everywhere , drawing me to him , and were standing so close .
my hands grow hot , and i fight to keep my skin down over the slits .
tarrens heart is picking up beats , and so is mine , but only i can hear their discordant melody .
thanks , i turn away from him .
maya , you cant cant contact anyone , i know .
you have to be careful about everything .
no logging into old email accounts .
no social media things .
i get it , i say putting the computer box on the bed and wrapping my hands around my waist .
nothing .
nada .
nusquam .
old life , gone , gone goneand more gone .
we stare past each other at odd angles of the room .
tarren pretends to gaze out the window .
i look at the empty wedge of space in the middle of the bookshelf .
the silence roams wide circles around us , teasing .
i assume he still wants to kill me .
i cant blame him , i really cant .
this realization hurts .
would i kill me too ?
tarren rescues me from my thoughts .
is everythinguh , comfortable .
the room ?
theres extra blankets in the closet .
he actually mumbles like a real person .
tarren , you dont have to i cant help myself , act like you want me here .
his mouth grows tighter .
we have a responsibility for you now .
we both just let that hang there for a while .
tarrens got those arctic eyes on again , and they wander away from my gaze .
theres uh , one more thing , maya .
i left it in the hall .
he leaves the room , and i wonder if he will come back .
it might be better for us both if he doesnt .
gabe needs to be here .
he is a circuit breaker , grounding the tense currents that run between tarren and me .
as far as i can tell , gabes face always follows his energy .
no hidden emotions .
no secret nightmares .
tarren returns , carrying a long roll of paper in his hands .
on that first night , after you , uh , fell asleep , i went back to the campus .
he pauses to lick his lips .
i watch the scar move as he speaks .
i was in your apartment when grand snatched you .
im usually careful , but when gabe called i left without cleaning up .
so , i had to get back before the cops started dusting the place .
the expression on my face stops his rush of words .
you think were crazy .
yeah , so do i , tarren says , and he must be more exhausted then i realized , because his face breaks into a shy smile that is so endearing i almost lose the seethe of my anger .
in that smile i see the little boy from the photos .
the way he ducks his head , has no idea how handsome he is .
i still hate him though .
youre mad , of course , but we were trying toand , i didnt mean.well , it doesnt matter .
we didnt protect you .
we failed .
why are you telling me this ?
i finally break in .
because , tarren holds out the roll of paper to me .
i shouldnt have taken it , but i just , it seemed like something special i unroll the paper , slow at first , then faster and faster as i realize what it is .
i kneel on one corner and push the paper wide .
avalon opens below me , and i drop into the magical island .
i find myself wandering the interlocking pathways , making sure the trains are still running , the buildings are stable and humming with productive work .
bikes whiz past , and i run to the great knotted trees in the center park .
ryan is here , everywhere , in the tall silhouette of each building , in the wind powered turbines rotating lazily in the breeze , in the shimmer of the sun over the ocean .
i ride up the elevator of the tallest building and step out onto the roof .
a figure stands just out of my view .
i keep my eyes forward , knowing that he will disappear if i turn my gaze .
instead , i look out across the island , taking in its beauty .
ryan comes up behind me and wraps his arms around my waist .
vanilla .
hot bubbles .
i lean my head back to rest it against his chest , but he is gone .
oh , i say .
oh , thank you .
i look up .
the bedroom is empty .
chapter 22 my new body requires little sleep .
this night i ache with memories , with the vision of my path in life all blown to dust .
there is nothing ahead of me except grands blood .
all that i have lost stands behind me , and the weight of it sinks hooks into my back and traps me here in this painful , throbbing fever of grief .
when i work myself up into a masochistic zeal , i open my new laptop and google myself online .
the hits are surprising .
ive made most of the local publications throughout the northeast and even some of the larger ones .
chances of my survival are slim .
the police found my purse and vomit stained shirt in the storage unit along with shell casings , pools of blood from an unknown assailant and a broken needle .
investigators propose that i was a victim of a drug gang , cult or some terrifying madman .
despite these bleak circumstance , karen and henry are quoted again and again begging for my return .
there is a video clip of my story on a local news website .
karen looks terrible .
her makeup is skewed too heavy , and pouches bulge beneath her eyes .
she is wearing a t shirt emblazoned with my face .
it quivers as she takes a tear soaked breath .
henry holds her hand looking uncomfortable .
his skin is gray , his suit rumpled .
there i am , grinning stupidly in the upper right hand corner like im enjoying the spectacle of my parents eviscerating themselves on television .
karen has the big purse slung over her shoulder , the one i called her medicine bag because it can only mean shes hit the apex of her cyclic breakdowns and requires all possible psychiatric , pulmonary and homeopathic medications to be on her person at all times .
the genuineness of their shared misery strikes me .
i lean in close to the computer screen , studying their pixelated faces , comprehending the full scale of the disaster i have wrought and will never be able to make right .
as i fumble to click off the website , i hear karens voice .
please , we just want our daughter back .
the tears are dripping off my face .
each breath carries a thousand particles of sand , rubbing away the lining of my throat .
i should stop , but i dont .
i find ryans obituary , stare at his face , at that hint of a smile he always teases the camera with .
i knew he was dead .
i did .
ryan in a tux .
ryan in a coffin .
ryan with his arms folded over his chest looking so unnatural while his family limps by , oh god .
ryan died because of me , i whisper to the empty bedroom .
i look up to avalon , which , thanks to the rusted ladder gabe scrounged from the garage , now hangs on the ceiling above my bed .
its just a drawing , and ryans not in there sleeping deep like arthur .
i pull up facebook and then remember that i cant log on .
my hands are shaking .
i need to see his page .
i need to post a confession .
ryan died because of me .
because he was walking with me .
because i tucked my hand in his back pocket .
i must take this back somehow , undo the damage i have caused .
even if we can never see each other again .
even if i still get turned into this freak .
i need ryan to be alive somewhere in the world .
breathing and laughing and chewing on his lip .
panicking about a test that he will inevitably ace .
ryan cant be trapped in a coffin .
he cant be smothered by earth .
the song wont stop in my head .
not for a single second .
not when i need just one moment of peace so i can think and close facebook before i do something truly stupid .
i dump the computer off my lap and climb out the bay window .
i run .
deep into the woods .
im in jean shorts and no shoes .
i leap onto a tree and get my arms around a raccoon who does not appreciate my embrace .
it struggles , clawing through my skin .
i peel back a glove and drain it quickly , but this snack only heightens the hunger .
i drop the limp body and keep running .
i recognize the crude metaphor .
running away from the self loathing and pity that compete for dominance .
poor ryan who loved a monster girl .
bad things came for them .
he got real cold , and she was flown away to a dark place .
i make it back in time to pass tarrens morning bed check .
then i crawl onto the roof and watch him set off on his run .
long , even strides carry him into the foliage , and his energy calms down at last .
im not really feeling better about anything , but a long shower helps clear my head .
i want to make an effort i want to demonstrate that this will somehow work , even if im not sure i believe it .
i descend to the kitchen and decide a thank you for almost being kind gift is in order for tarren .
i whip up my famous scrambled eggs , famous because they are the only dish i am capable of making without the aid of a microwave or toaster .
the fridge is well stocked from tarrens shopping trip last night .
the bins are filled with vegetables and fruits .
milk sits on the top shelf along with packs of red bull , protein shakes and muscle milk .
theres a whole drawer filled with bottled water .
eggs sit in the little egg holders that i didnt think anyone actually ever used .
i see a case of beer on the bottom shelf and realize for the first time that i will probably never get drunk again not even the fun buzz that turns me into a dance genius .
after some searching , i find a battered pan , crack the eggs and listen to them sizzle .
i push away my nausea .
the idea of putting food , anything except bottled water , into my body contorts my stomach in pain .
the smell of the eggs is almost too much , but i want to do this for tarren .
maybe i can get him to smile that shy smile that makes him look almost human .
maybe hell begin to believe i really am different that i can help them on their crazy mission , because now this is my crazy mission too .
maybe well become fast friends , and wouldnt gabe be so pleased ?
maybe we can find a sliver of the happiness that he is searching for so desperately .
maybe we could be a family a cracked up , gun toting , slightly monsterized family , but a family .
why does that word feel so dangerous ?
like a mousetrap luring my weak heart to a deadly prize .
spring .
the toast comes up .
tarren is back from his run , grunting to my cheerful hello and up the stairs before i can invite him into the kitchen .
no matter .
hum de dum , im determined to make his fucking day .
i finish up cooking while hes in the shower and take my time arranging the food on a tray when i hear him walking back to his room .
buttered toast wedges sit on each side of a too large mound of eggs that ive sprinkled with salt , pepper and cheddar cheese that melts into the fluffy folds .
martha stewart to the max .
no orange juice in the fridge , so i include a glass of milk and a small plate of strawberries on the side of the tray .
perfect , perfect , perfect .
utterly vomit inducing to smell , but perfect .
without missing a beat , i take my tray up the stairs .
tarrens had plenty of time to dress .
i dont remember to knock .
im too excited .
too damn proud of myself for demonstrating such a clear effort to take my situation in stride .
just as i reach his door , i wonder if he locked it .
no .
i turn the handle and step inside .
i would have sensed how high tarrens energy was pulsing if i wasnt distracted by the smell of the food .
i might have even heard the breaths of anguish stealing in and out of his body .
instead , i blithely walk inside and open my mouth to announce a cheerful good morning .
it catches in my throat .
i drop the tray .
chapter 23 tarren stands in front of his closet , shirtless , looking at himself in the mirror on the inside door .
he has a runners lean physique .
wiry muscles stretch across his tall frame , and i think the greeks would have been proud to sculpt him if it wasnt for the network of scars that curve and writhe all across his skin .
i dont understand at first what i am seeing .
there is no beginning or end to the wounds .
they snake all over his body , crisscrossing each other , extending around his torso and down past the waist of his jeans .
pale pink streaks hash across his back .
deep gouges down his arms .
xs and ss .
pricks and wide sweeps .
thin cuts and thicker furrows where the skin has grown over .
one long jag starts at his right shoulder blade and travels down his back .
i follow it through the mirror as it curves around , crossing his abdomen .
different knives .
small , playful cuts just to tease and prod and many much deeper .
burns too .
mottled , shiny stamps across his shoulders and chest .
a purple yellow sweep of bruises down the right side of his ribs .
the mirror is cracked .
i trace the source to a web of splintered glass up high on the right with long tentacles running down , splitting tarrens face into broken fragments .
and his eyes , looking at me , reflected in those fragments , a deeper blue than ive ever seen them .
i dont think to hide my shock , because i dont understand how this could have happened to him .
car accident ?
wild animal ?
did he do it to himself ?
crazy self flagellation ?
my eyes flee away .
his room is so bare .
not a single poster on the wall .
no pictures .
no books except for one .
a copy of the odyssey sits on his nightstand , battered in the way books get when their pages have been turned and scoured many , many times .
i dont know what to do , so i look at tarren again .
quantum queen of tact .
our eyes lock through the mirror , until his slide away .
his head drops ever so slightly .
please leave , tarren whispers .
ibreakfast , i stutter .
im sorry .
i thought i stop .
he doesnt speak , and this image latches into my mind with barbed hooks tarren standing there in front of the mirror , water rolling down the back of his neck from his damp hair , his aura so dazzlingly bright that i lose my vocabulary .
now i learn what his shame looks like .
now i know why gabe tries so hard to make him laugh .
ill just , i kneel down to try and deal with the mess of cheesy gooey eggs and spilled milk now decorating his carpet .
then i realize that im still in his room that hes still staring at me through the mirror .
never mind , i murmur and escape the room , pulling the door closed behind me .
i can still feel his energy vibrating through the whole house , or maybe its just the heavy clang of my own heart .
chapter 24 the afternoon rain has just let up , leaving the grass beaded and fresh .
the wind brings moist breaths and the smell of damp things .
i sit outside on the back porch steps dipping my legs into the noon sun and hoping gabe wont leave me with my thoughts for too long .
my body opens to the sunlight , taking in the thin stream of sustenance .
i watch the trees , instantly attuned to the flickering nods of energy scurrying along the branches .
the other noises of the day are a choir of disjointed notes that im learning to sort and dim as best i can .
the back door opens , and gabe eases down beside me .
he hands me a bottle of water and sets a case of beer between us .
find any angels today ?
i ask .
few suspicious deaths , probably nothing , he answers .
just need to keep my eye on it .
we sit together in silence while gabe pulls out the first bottle of beer and takes a long drink .
so , the scars , gabe wipes his mouth and shakes his head .
we , uh , we dont talk about it .
not ever .
he gazes out into the trees , eyes searching for something far away .
you wouldnt believe it , but growing up tarren was the shyest kid youd ever meet .
afraid of everything .
gabe smiles to himself .
he hated the mission .
gabe makes quotes with his fingers .
everything about it .
refused to carry a gun .
hardly went to karate lessons and never hit back when we fought .
hed be in his room all day long reading our dads old notes and any other chemistry and genetic textbooks he could scrounge .
when we went on a mission , hed just read his books in the car and wait for us till wed done our killing .
did the driving when he got tall enough .
we ?
mom and tammy and me .
when we were old enough , mom took us on the road to hunt angels .
what about school ?
home schooled .
our mom was a college professor .
classic literature and mythology , but she was real smart about everything .
taught us history and science along with evasive driving , fighting , picking locks , that kind of thing .
gabe smiles again his sad smile .
i would have liked to go to prom though .
they always make a big deal about it in the movies .
im sorry .
im not .
our mother didnt raise us traditional , but she gave us a purpose and taught us how to believe in something .
gabe takes another long sip of his beer .
the wind has died down , and bugs flit through the scraggly grass .
discarded shell casings wink in the sun .
they were twins you know .
tammy and tarren .
fraternal , of course .
completely opposite in personalities , but close as could be .
they could finish each others sentences .
tammy , she took care of tarren , stood up for him .
she always knew when he was in one of his moods .
tarren took everything the hardest the traveling , the training , the isolation , but he adored tammy .
followed her around like a puppy .
all the boys did anytime we stopped long enough .
every one of em was in love with tammy .
gabe sets his bottle aside .
what is it ?
gabe starts at my voice , as if hed forgotten my presence .
its been so long since ive spoken about her , he muses .
tammy was fearless .
reckless , mom said , but i looked up to my big sister .
a smile from tammy was worth ... you been in the garage yet ?
i shake my head .
theres an old motorcycle in there .
that was tammys .
our mother was the only one who could ever control her .
then mom got sick .
gabes eyes travel up to the sky , and he dotes on the wispy clouds stretching overhead .
i rub my legs with my gloved hands , sip at my water and wait for him to continue .
when he does , gabes voice is quiet .
i catch a tremor beneath his words .
mom died .
that was six years ago .
we buried her , and tammy went wild .
she would disappear for days , weeks , hunting on her own .
she liked hunting , and she was good at it .
thats when tarren finally started fighting .
sometimes i think the only reason he did was to keep an eye on tammy , to protect her .
now of course , things are differentbut anyway , one day tammy came back from a solo mission saying she had a lead on grand .
she wanted to go after him .
gabe sets down his empty bottle and pulls out a second .
the glass sweats heavy in the heat .
you have to understand , grand still wanted revenge for the death of his father .
wed also managed to kill his younger brother , lux , the year before mom died .
grand was always hunting us , and we were always running like hell to slip away .
its just the way things were .
grand was too strong .
hed heal from bullets in hours .
could smell you coming a mile away .
he has abilities we dont even know about .
mom always said he was too dangerous to hunt .
she would know , after everything she went through .
but tammy thought this was our chance .
i knew it was a trap .
hed tried to lure us out before .
tammy and iwe had a terrible fight about it .
i , uh , gabe laughs and shakes his head .
his fingers tap the sides of the bottle between his hands .
i called tammy a stupid cunt .
she called me a coward and other things , threw a plate at my head .
tarren was there , but he didnt say a thing .
i saidi said , gabe takes a deep breath .
i said something ill regret for the rest of my life .
next morning when i woke up they were gone .
tarren knew it was suicide , but he would follow tammy to the gates of hell if thats where she wanted to go .
gabes voice is shaking .
i wouldve gone with them .
even if it was a trap .
his fingers tap , tap , tap the glass as he gathers himself , tries to push through .
you cant know what it was like .
their phones went straight to voicemail .
i had no idea where they were .
i thought i had lost everyone .
i wanted to die .
gabe .
i put my hand on his arm , and he doesnt flinch .
i was eighteen , he says quietly .
i thought that was the worst day of my life , but it wasnt .
he shrugs away my hand .
this is so stupid , he mutters .
his eyes are wet , turned a warm honey in the sunlight .
i thought that was the worst day of my life , he says again , until tarren called .
the car was covered in blood , and he was barely conscious by the time i got to him .
i dont know how he even managed to get as far as he did or how he hotwired that car .
it wasit was , his voice cracks , god !
gabe stands up and leans against the wooden beam supporting the overhang .
i close my eyes and see it all over again tarren gazing at his disfigured body in the mirror , the plumes of shame and anger glowing all around him .
all of his scars are crystalized in my mind .
i blink , but the image doesnt go away .
his eyes , points of pain locking onto mine that bead of water rolling down his neck .
it turns red .
his scars rip open , pulse blood through his tattered clothes .
tarren slumps forward and watches his life drip onto the wheel .
in my mind the story continues , propelled by the images gabes shaking voice imparts .
ive never seen so much blood in my life , gabe whispers .
i had a towel in the trunk , and i tried to clean him up .
his clothes were in shreds gabe wrenches open the car door , catching tarren as he falls .
he tries not to cry , struggles not to let the fear overwhelm .
tarren gazes up at his brother , whispers something tarren esq like you shouldnt have come .
he wasnt coherent .
i kept asking where tammy was , and he wouldnt tell me .
the towel was soaked in blood .
the things i saw on his body .
i thought he was going to die .
tarren lies against the passenger side window .
eyes blinking slow .
gabe asks over and over again , where is she ?
where is she ?
tarren mumbles , but his words are senseless .
blood smears the window as he presses his hand against it .
shaking hands .
gabe grips the sticky wheel , puts the car into gear and wipes his tears away as he drives .
youre going to be okay , he says , because what else is there to say ?
youre going to okay , youre going to be okay , he chants like a mantra .
i couldnt even take him to the hospital , gabes voice narrates across the scene .
i didnt know if grand was following him .
where tammy was .
tarren passed out , so i drove like hell to dr. lee .
i didnt think he would make it the long miles stretch out ahead of them .
gabe tries to take the turns easy so tarrens head doesnt bang against the window .
gabe is so young .
even skinnier than he is now .
shivering , trying to force his gaze forward on the road , but inadvertently glancing at his brother over and over again .
he takes tarrens wrist , searching for that weakening pulse .
so , so , so afraid .
all those cuts .
all that blood , gabe croaks .
without warning he hurls the empty bottle , and it shatters against a tree in a spectacle of exploding glass .
the sound echoes through the trees , snapping me back to reality .
gabes aura rears up and engulfs him , so bright that it hurts my eyes .
the skin rips away from my palms , and the orbs lift up , pushing against the fabric of my gloves .
with a shudder , i turn away and press my hands down hard against the porch .
the song reaches all through me , echoing in weird ways inside my head until gabe speaks again .
we kept tarren pretty dosed on pain meds those first weeks .
i was afraid hed kill himself .
gabe lays his forehead against the post and closes his eyes .
he told me what happened .
once .
grand caught them both .
it was a trap .
he took them to one of his labs to have some fun .
tammy was the one who killed his brother lux , so grand decided to repay her the favor .
he cut up tarren in front of her eyes .
real slow .
burned him too .
when grand got bored , he killed tammy and then let tarren go .
just let him go ?
yeah .
gabe opens his eyes , stares out across the lawn .
far as i can guess , grand wanted to track him back here , find our mother .
he didnt know she was dead .
tarren shook him somehow .
even half dead , tarren can still lose a tail .
gabe pauses to steady his voice .
and then tarren was different .
as soon as he could get out of bed , he was running every morning .
working out .
shooting and fighting .
we went back to hunting angels , and he was relentless .
we killed more that first year then the past three combined .
he used to read all the time .
play video games .
drink beer on the porch .
he doesnt do any of that anymore .
its always training .
always searching for new hunts .
always killing .
he even had a girlfriend once , if you can believe it .
real sweet girl in pueblo .
gabe sits down next to me .
his energy is flagging , and i can lift my hands up and put them in my lap .
tammy took tarrens soul with her when she died .
all thats left is vengeance .
gabe stops and shakes his head .
after a while he says , there .
now you know the big family secret .
i put my hand on his shoulder again .
we watch the trees .
its a shame gabe cant see his aura and appreciate its delicate movements and aqua marine shades .
how strong it is .
how much brighter it glows than anything else out here .
i dont think they know that humans look the best must be the best to feed on .
so gabe says finally , that must have been pretty awkward this morning .
did youwas he , like , naked ?
no !
i cry .
cause you are brother and sister , and that kind of thing just isnt i sock him in the arm , and gabe cries out , clutching his injured limb and rolling on his back .
oh shit !
unfair use of super strength .
his body quakes with laughter .
it wasnt funny !
i shout at him .
ow .
totally not funny at all , he wheezes between laughs .
i try to keep my expression stern , but i cant .
the giggles burst out , and gabe , who is just recovering , falls back on his elbows in fits .
we are both lost , tears sliding down our faces , stomachs stitching up , our manic laughter peeling out and fretting the birds nearby .
chapter 25 i wait up for tarren , but he locks himself in his lab until midnight and then goes straight to his room .
no matter .
i finish my letter to dr. lamsin .
this is redemption .
or another way to pick at scabs .
now that i have a perfectly good computer to write with , i have realized that writing is most definitely out of the question .
i dont have any use for an outlet .
things should not come out .
things should be bound in strait jackets and chains and locked in coffins and encased in cement .
things are the snot bubbles .
vein covered bulbs rising up out of my hands .
dead puppies .
dead ryan .
karen with her medicine bag .
lots of cement .
so i apologize instead , and i use my safe little notebook .
small apologies first .
tonight i apologize to dr. lamsin , my shakespeare ii professor , for missing her class .
for any awkwardness my disappearance may have caused her and my classmates .
i sincerely hope that the ongoing search for my body is not cause for continual distraction .
my pen falters .
the last lines of the letter wait for closure .
i spent some time on the roof yesterday reading hamlet , and when i close my eyes , the words are there , all of them , suspended in the ether of my mind .
i quickly peruse the iambic pentameters , pluck a random flower , and scribble it in , though i suspect it hardly makes any sense at all .
my words fly up , my thoughts remain below words without thoughts never to heaven go .
i feel slightly better , maybe even a little noble for all the suffering i have endured .
not submitting like katherina .
not cracking wide open like ophelia .
not giving up like juliette .
not yet .
i close the notebook and trace the intricate swirls on the front .
it is a quality journal , black with electric blue lines twisting around the front and back cover .
it has a real spine and thick vanilla paper .
i was surprised to pull it out of the bag of clothes and toiletries that tarren picked up for me .
i didnt ask him to buy it .
the next morning i am ready .
i crouch on the roof , letting the rising sun wake my skin .
the door opens below , and tarren takes a deep breath of the fresh air .
with a polite cough to gain his attention , i exaggerate my leap for effect , throwing myself backwards off the roof .
with a graceful twist , i land softly in front of tarren .
if he is impressed with my mad skills , he fails to show it .
i pretend i wasnt at all expecting a compliment .
i try to match his detached air , pushing back my shoulders and setting my face into a disaffected expression with a hint of grimace .
i want to run with you , i say .
tarren frowns .
i frown back .
we frown at each other .
i had meant to apologize .
i had meant to say hello .
tarren takes off without a word , and i follow , keeping at his shoulder .
we move through the woods , skipping over roots and shuttling up and down embankments .
tarren increases his speed , but i stay with him .
we run in silence for an hour as the sun warms the air around us .
im sure we should have turned back already , but tarren keeps pushing forward .
i realize that hes testing me .
all i wanted was to see about breaking this tense reserve between us , but hes turned my gesture of reconciliation into a competition .
i keep my face placid , but my anger flares .
its amazing how easily tarren can reach inside me and stir up the dark places until the memories , like butterflies , take wing and flutter in front of my eyes .
the gun held steady , aimed at my head .
tarrens gun .
blood all over him .
his cold eyes locking onto mine in the mirror .
his humorless mouth .
glowering face .
the stupid nice things he does that almost make me feel sorry for him .
but i dont .
if tarren wants a competition , then hell get it .
one glance at his energy field , and i know that i can beat him .
sweat runs down his face , and his heart is thudding hard .
the heavy sun propels me even as it weakens him .
miles slips beneath our shoes , and tarren stubbornly keeps up the pace .
i stay at his shoulder .
the trees trap the heat and turn it swampy around us .
my body is wet , and the things inside of it lungs , hamstrings , calves ache with deepening timbres .
but im going to win , and it wont be long now .
weve been running hard for hours .
tarrens steps are swaying .
his energy is faded to a thin foggy glow that hugs close to his body and spikes with red and wild yellow jags .
i want him to fail , and i sing it to him in my head .
fail , fail , fail .
fail on the trail .
fall on a nail .
darkness stirred up and tasting sweet .
i am giddy with the idea of watching him crumple from heat exhaustion .
he needs to be humbled .
except hes already been humbled .
broken to this and me trying to crush the pieces smaller .
just as fast as it comes , the anger empties from my mind .
i surprise myself i slow down .
tarren , i call , i cantcant run anymore .
you sure ?
he tries not to wheeze .
his cheeks are flushed deep red , and his hair goes black when its soaked like this .
he still insists on long sleeves and pants even though i know .
yeah , im about to drop .
you can keep going though .
its fine , he says .
you dont know the way back .
his heart rate is still fluttering hard , so i beg to walk .
we amble through the woods .
there are so many questions flitting through my mind all twisted and warped with the heat and my weeping muscles and the song with its claws out .
what was she like ?
i hear myself ask .
diana .
tarren looks at me with guarded eyes .
my mother ?
our mother .
i keep the hurt out of my voice .
it may have been an accident .
tarren takes his time with the answer .
musing isnt the right word .
its too casual .
processing is better .
he must have an entire company inside of his head measuring , chiseling , having committee hearings on possible answers and testing their structural integrity before releasing a finished product into the world .
tired , he says .
what ?
i remembershe always seemed tired .
wait , i cant keep the disappointment out of my voice , i thought she was , like , amazon mom .
intelligent , courageous .
gabe says she was incredible .
tarren tilts his head in a very un tarren like way .
his face is thoughtful .
of course she was .
it takes a lot of energy to be incredible .
oh .
this is when i realize that there is a tarren underneath the mean , angry tarren i know .
not exactly a good tarren , but a real tarren someone who looks like he may just smile for real .
chapter 26 two weeks pass , and something like a routine begins to develop until gabe finds an angel and we go after it .
tarren and i run each morning , silent , focused , racing the sun as it lumbers up over the horizon .
i follow the rhythmic rise and fall of tarrens shoulder , and these are the scarce moments when my mind empties , and the song is hollow and distant .
we come home to bluegrass strumming out of gabes computer speakers as he studies death and finds small flowers of humor in that seemingly barren field .
he gives us the obit of the day , and i pretend its not creepy , and that there isnt something sinister , staked gauzy and invisible like spider webs around our lives .
in the afternoon the boys go into town to fight and return home with new bruises and little jags of red in their auras .
they spend the long , hot noon hours shooting empty soup cans in the backyard or grunting with weights in the basement .
in the evening , gabe replaces bluegrass twang with punky alternative beats as he fiddles with web code , plays online poker and chats with friends who will never know his real name .
tarren finds chores to do over at dr. lees house or riddles me with questions in his lab .
tarrens lab .
i expect needles , jumbo computers , brain wave readers , beakers foaming with purple liquid .
instead , i find a small and tidy room filled with books , a locked filing cabinet , a small fridge and a single microscope on a desk .
i notice the faint outline of shapes on the walls beneath layers of white paint and remember gabe telling me that this had been tammys bedroom .
there are no crazy experiments , no dashes of lightning and high , cackling laughs .
no trace of any vial holding a magic , glowing cure .
instead , its just tarren with a never ending list of mundane questions breaking me into bits and pieces .
i lie more than i should .
a recorder sits on the desk next to me drinking up my hedges and nervous stutters and long silences when i dont know how to answer or evade .
i dont tell tarren about the colors in the auras .
or the song .
when tarren asks again and again about how grand changed me , i emphasize the one needle part or spin around on the stool , because this always makes him frown .
it is almost a relief when tarren asks me to do pushups or pull ups , to jump , to run a loop through the woods as fast as i can or to lift ever increasing amounts of weight .
i never press to my full limit .
some deeply embedded fear doesnt want me to reveal my true strength to tarren , or perhaps to myself .
it terrifies me how my muscles can unleash a tide of pushups , how i can bench press two hundred pounds , two fifty , three hundred , before i stop because this is so , so , so wrong .
i cant decipher the dark , muddy colors that climb into tarrens aura while he watches and records my numbers .
i learn that the key to extricating myself from tarrens questions and his tests is to start asking him questions of my own .
what did our mothers voice sound like ?
when did diana tell her children about angels ?
when did she start training them ?
when did they begin to kill ?
do other people fight angels ?
do the fox brothers have aunts and uncles and grandparents ?
soon enough tarren will put storm clouds on his face and duck behind them .
were done , he says , and im free to go hang out with gabe , read a book on the roof , imagine new grand killing scenarios or write more apologies to the people from my old life .
at night gabe is in the mood for rock and cranks it loud as he pulls up different map views on each computer screen and searches for patterns among the dead .
if he doesnt find anything , we watch cheesy action flicks or hell goad me into playing video games .
he always fries me with fireballs , skewers me with a samurai sword or pummels me into pulp , but im getting good quick .
i ask him the same questions that put storm clouds on tarrens face , and gabe takes some delight in answering each one with a blatant , long winded lie that closely resembles a plot from star wars , indiana jones or one of the national lampoon vacation movies .
on a particular night when im in one of my moods where i cant really handle anything , i crawl up onto the roof and think about diana .
when i close my eyes , i can see her face perfectly , the way it was in the beach photograph on the bookshelf in my bedroom .
she was beautiful and strong a modern day amazon but i think she was a terrible mother to raise her children as soldiers .
to press guns into their hands and deny them a chance to know anything different .
what kind of love is that ?
was she so obsessed with revenge that she would sacrifice anything ?
the question echoes in my mind then turns its fangs on me .
how far would you go to kill grand ?
i know better than to answer .
i try to rein myself in , but the darkness is awake and churning .
dianamom , when you gave me away , were you protecting me or glad to be rid of me ?
i stare up at the stars , imaging her blue gray eyes hidden somewhere beneath their bright points .
why did you even carry me to term ?
gabe rescues me from my thoughts .
he clamors loudly onto the roof , stretches out on his back next to me and lets out a big sigh .
im sitting up , legs crossed , and i automatically tuck my hands protectively into the sleeves of my too big jacket .
we both look up at the stars and dont say anything for a while .
perhaps they catch the secrets of our hearts and hold them for us until we are brave enough to give them voice .
pixie girl is stupid girl .
the night is filled with cricket harmonies and the slow dip of fireflies below .
i take a breath , smelling the scent of pine needles , hearing the animal songs lifting out from the trees around us .
it still seems so strange not to hear an undercurrent of traffic , the many different voices of strangers going about their lives in close approximation to yours , to breathe and not catch hints of barbeque or fast food or car exhaust .
there is such a loneliness in thisremembering what i alone have lost .
colorado loses its heat at night , but gabe , as always , seems comfortable in just his t shirt .
for good measure , he kicks off his shoes .
one of them picks up speed and goes tumbling down the slope of the roof .
i am up , leaping like a dancer , hooking a finger through the laces and catching the shoe just before it plunges into the night .
i bring the renegade footwear back to gabe .
show off , he drawls .
the smile doesnt linger on his face , and i notice new , darker shades pulsing in his aura .
for no discernable reason , gabe begins answering the questions id given up on asking .
he tells me that diana started training her children young in self defense .
she taught them how to run away if the angels ever came , how to hide .
always know the exits .
look at everyones hands , but dont let them know that youre looking .
stay calm .
always stay calm .
gabe doesnt realize how well i can see his face in the darkness , because as he speaks , the careful indifference slides away , and all thats left is the lost puppy look , lots of lines , and the smiles fled far away .
we had a choice , gabe insists though i did not challenge him .
mom never pressured us to fight .
tried to talk us out of it , actually .
but i wanted to fight .
so did tammy .
we wanted to save people .
be heroes .
mom said heroes were idiots who whittled away their lives for a world that couldnt be saved .
she said it was lonely , bitter , exhausting .
constant sacrifice .
i thought it all sounded awesome .
tarren was the smart one .
he said no .
sometimes i think the only reason he ever started looking for a cure was so that he could end all this and have his family back .
of course , that was before , gabe adds .
i simply can not abide the wretched look on gabes face , so i take a deep breath and say , i didnt go to my prom either .
no one asked me junior or senior year .
i bought a dress though , just in case .
its still hanging in my closet at home .
well , if my parents didnt clean it out .
gabe turns his head in my direction .
the police called off the search for me yesterday , i tell him .
did you know that ?
yeah .
after a while he says , i didnt know about you for a long time .
mom only told me the week before she died .
not sure why .
maybe she wanted to confess .
lay her burdens down before the end .
afterwards , i would wonder about you sometimes .
really ?
yeah , what you looked like .
if you had any funny quirks .
what kind of life you led .
if you were happy .
i kind of imagined you with more freckles for some reason .
and sometimes if things got real bad the first time was when we had to drown this guy .
me and tarren and tammy all holding him under , this angel , in his own pool i would think of you out there in the world and how we were making it a little safer for you , maybe a little better .
gabes voice is soft and shy , and hes gone back to noticing the stars .
i know that sounds lame , but it helped .
and how did i turn out ?
anything like you imagined ?
angelic , gabe says with a grin , and then when i dont respond , or was that stupid ?
kind of a sore point .
now im looking up at the stars , counting them rapidly in my head because i can now .
well , then not angelic at all .
youre a low down , ignant , scumbag human like the rest of us .
thanks gabe .
anytime sis , he replies , and the word jars me out of my count .
it takes me a moment to recover , but when i do , i am bold enough to say , tell me whats wrong .
gabe is quiet for a while .
i follow his gaze up to the stars , trying to see whats painting yellow hues into his aura .
mom was right , gabe says , this isnt a good life .
his voice is low and sad and those lines are back , digging in around his mouth .
gabe , just tell me .
he sits up , still wont look at me .
i found something .
grand ?
is it grand ?
nah , grand would never be stupid enough to show up in my search algorithms .
no , theres been a few deaths out in arizona , california and mexico .
looks like an angel .
i havent told tarren yet .
hell have us out the door and on the road in ten minutes .
gabe pauses , swallows .
he wont want to leave you alone in the house .
good , because im coming .
ill need a gun , i say .
gabe grimaces .
maya , i dont want this life for you , he says as if he honestly doesnt realize that revenge is the only reason i have left to exist .
its not your choice anymore gabe .
i want to fight .
the cloak of night is all around us the animal melodies , the hunger drawing my eyes to gabes energy .
i am aware of every little flick of movement , the red blush of his pain growing brighter within the flowing blues .
please maya , gabe whispers , sit this first one out .
make sure its what you really want .
i know what just this one time , for me .
i know i dont have any right to ask , but he trails off and finally his eyes come up to meet mine .
dark wells of pain .
its crazy how much i care about gabe after only two weeks , how deep that soft little tremble in his voice cuts .
alright , just this time , i say , but i wont change my mind .
the smile is slow to come to his face , but when it lands , it stretches wide .
chapter 27 gabe and tarren hole up in what gabe refers to as the fox cave and what i refer to as the weird smelling room in the basement where an old projector and a big map of the country sit on two rickety card tables pushed together .
i am not invited to this conference , so , with dignity , i lay flat against the sticky linoleum in the kitchen and listen through the floor as gabe presents the evidence , and the brothers develop a plan to track and kill the angel .
this part takes fifteen minutes .
the next half hour is spent arguing about me .
we have to watch her at all times , tarren insists .
why are we going over this again ?
i get it , gabe retorts .
gabe , she could lose control at any moment .
you have to realize that .
anything could set her off .
we need to take her to lo .
gabes voice jumps an octave .
shes not a lab animal shes our sister .
plus , i hate that little fucker .
we need to know the extent of the change , what exactly were dealing with .
their words echo in my mind , growing loud and mean lab animal , dealing with , anything , anything , anything could set her off .
develop a cure , tarren is saying .
come on , were wasting time .
tarren , gabe says , and in the silence that follows , i can only imagine that the brothers are exchanging one of those powerful looks that they keep in reserve for taut moments like this .
when gabe speaks again , his voice is so low i almost miss his words .
shes trying real hard , he says .
i know , tarren replies .
he pauses .
but that doesnt change the risk she presents .
i roll over on my back and stare at the cracks racing across the ceiling .
there is a wild banshee scream building inside me , fueled by tarren and so many other things , but mostly tarren .
i wrestle it down , try to let the wretched notes seep out of my body .
the basement stairs groan as the brothers climb up .
our first mission .
im not sure what to expect .
dramatic theme music ?
an extensive scene where the boys change into high tech fighting costumes ?
tarren narrowing his eyes and growling lets go and stomping the gas so hard that the tires squeal ?
instead , tarren backs us out of the driveway with his usual restraint , stops at each stop sign and turns on his blinker even when no one is around .
gabe munches on a powerbar , reclines his seat back and puts his feet up on the dashboard .
off , tarren says .
what ?
gabe whines but his feet slide off .
a little while later , he looks out the window .
farewell to farewell , he calls as we turn onto the highway and the little town recedes quickly behind us .
money , i say before any silence can get a foothold .
you need some ?
gabe asks .
how do you make money ?
thats all me .
gabe looks at his brother , grins .
tarren remains silent , but his energy ticks with hints of orange .
im assuming some sort of fraud here , i say .
what ?
gabe turns in his seat to look at me with feigned offense .
i am an upstanding , law abiding citizen as far as anyone knows .
except when youre killing people .
only the ones who deserve it , he laughs easy and loose , and i dont know how he can do it .
if you must know , i perform the very honorable and noble service of facilitating romantic relationships online .
another flick in tarrens energy field , but his face doesnt betray any emotions .
he keeps his eyes on the road .
youre an e pimp ?
dating websites .
niche .
ive got seniorssecondchance.com , littlepeoplelotsoflove.com , hippybliss.com , and i just got hatershatingtogether.com , you know for those people who hate everything .
they can , i dont know , go to the movies and complain about it to each other the whole way through .
oh come on .
you make money from that ?
gabe nods proudly .
google ads baby .
people visit the site , click on the ads , and google thanks me with a little tip to my paypal account .
paypal sends me a cashiers check .
farewells got this delightful little check cashing place that gives me a 10 haircut with no questions asked , and the cash goes on prepaid credit cards .
wha la !
i study those elf eyes .
oh god , midgets ?
really ?
actually , they prefer to be called little people , gabe corrects , and little people have big hearts .
they deserve to find love just like everyone else .
even those people who hate everything .
gabe tips his head ever so slightly in tarrens direction .
tarren notices .
i dont hate everything .
guns arent people , gabe says .
when i laugh , gabe turns to me .
neither are books .
hes right books are so much better than people .
anyway , gabe continues , the sites dont bring in a lot , but its enough .
keeps gas in the cars he pats the glove compartment beer in the fridge and bullets in the guns .
bravo !
i clap , and gabe gives me a little bow .
i press on with my questions , but teasing answers from the brothers is about as easy as moving a pile of sand using chopsticks .
tarren is obstinate , answering in a clipped monotone when he acknowledges a question at all .
gabe is a freestyle art form all by himself , skimming across wide ranging topics , taking random detours , diverting away from direct answers and launching into wild , epic adventures starring himself whenever i ask something too personal .
i learn that there are areas , lots of them , that the brothers have somehow agreed are off limits .
ill see it first in tarrens energy field yellow hues pulsing at the edges and then gabe will inevitably shift the conversation with only the slightest hesitation as he recalibrates .
i dont understand what this means , what secrets they hold back from me , why gabe is so much more careful in tarrens presence .
despite a valiant effort from myself and gabe and no assistance whatsoever from tarren who is a big , mean , angry eyed lug , our conversation dwindles and dies .
in its place , silence takes seed and grows into a solid wall of thorny vines , sequestering each of us off into our own little worlds .
i hate this .
my world is an apocalyptic landscape filled with burned out buildings and ghostly memories drifting through the charred husks .
we drive straight to arizona , stopping only for gas , restrooms and a pet shop where gabe buys me three terrified little mice .
i ice two of them before we set off again and save the last for later .
the snack dampens my hunger for a while , but , inevitably , night falls and the song takes up its willowy call .
its tantalizing notes grow louder and louder , tingling down each nerve and building up heat in my hands .
i sit on my hands , try to gaze out the window at the bright , cutting headlights from the other cars and the many different faces coming into relief as we pass each other .
but my head is always turning back , eyes landing again and again on gabes sapphire aura .
im getting that overwhelmed feeling again , so i lay down across the back seat and take off the stupid floppy hat that tarren instructed me to wear at all times .
maya , put the hat back on , tarren says immediately .
he seems to notice everything .
its hideous .
its for your gabe takes a deep breath , trying to contain his laughter , your own good .
think of it as being undercover .
he smirks .
if anyone recognizes you tarren begins .
im wearing these huge , stupid sunglasses .
thats not enough at night , which is only what assholes do .
and my hair is completely different .
i had to dress up as a clown once , gabe says .
tarren and i stop our bickering and look at him .
oh yeah , i forgot about that , tarren muses .
put the hat on maya .
we had to get into this guys home , gabe continues .
an angel .
it was his kids birthday .
fancy gated subdivision .
we were hanging around the front trying to think of a way in , and this clown comes driving by .
remember ?
gabe glances at his brother but gives him no time to respond .
we jumped him , and he was all crying , saying he didnt have any money and his cat had leukemia or something .
tied him up , took his costume , threw him in the trunk .
that was one unhappy clown .
hat , tarren says .
i shove the hat on my head .
did you kill the angel ?
yeah , gabe replies then adds , but , not like in front of the kids or anything , and i used a silencer .
but you killed the kids dad on his birthday , and you traumatized an innocent clown .
well , life can be a suckfest sometimes , gabe shrugs and twists in his seat to look at me .
that guy iced a lot of people before we found him .
oh , you look elf eyes filled with mirth , oh god , you look ridiculous .
the hell with you both !
i cry , and slump down into my seat .
when the sun finally peeks up over the horizon , i wonder why it seems so weary , so slow to extend its light to us .
we reach arizona and tarren nudges gabe awake .
can you get police dispatches out here ?
i can get em everywhere .
dont doubt my mad skills .
gabe sits up , stretches , and i watch the colors shimmer through his aura .
tarren catches me , and i turn and gaze out at the desert around us .
sedona , gabe calls out a few minutes later .
he eyes the screen of his laptop .
body just got called in .
right off the 40 .
fits the pattern .
wings is going east .
damn , tarren mutters .
if he fed , then he wont turn up for another day .
hmmm , gabes fingers skate lightly across the keyboard .
the pattern of victims , they arent as far away from each other as youd think .
gabe looks up at tarren .
suppose he doesnt drive the whole day .
maybe he rests after he ices his victim , hangs around .
weve seen it before .
not likely , tarren replies .
doesnt hurt to check .
lets stop by the crime scene , see if the cops got any leads .
tarren looks at his brother .
its dangerous .
come on , gabes eyes are bright , and hes got that teasing smile on his face .
i bought us a perfectly good pair of border patrol badges that weve never gotten to use .
sedona isnt near the border , and we dont have uniforms .
border patrol owns arizona .
they can go wherever they want .
plus were plainclothes border patrol agents on a secret , undercover mission .
no uniforms .
border patrol goes plainclothes ?
yeah , why the hell not ?
gabe shrugs .
he looks back at me , winks .
got ta have fun with your job .
you have too much fun with your job , tarren mutters .
gabe laughs .
doing okay with all of this ?
he asks me .
peachy , i manage , though i am , in fact , nowhere near peachy .
im suddenly all twitchy and out of breath , and my mind is starting to spray paint bright , graffiti words across my brain .
words like murder , danger , blood , bullets , bat shit insane .
as if he can read my mind , gabes face turns serious .
so does his energy .
all the playful greens fade away .
i know how it sounds , he says , but this is it this is the life .
im not sure how to respond , so i dont say anything at all .
chapter 28 gabe seems to have a particular talent for picking out the cheapest , filthiest motels on the planet .
i get dumped in a place that charges by the hour .
on our way to the room , we actually pass a hispanic guy with an eye patch .
an honest to god eye patch .
even without stellar hearing , the groans of male and female pleasure and the sharp cracks of spankings emanate clearly from the other rooms as we walk by .
gabe smirks .
tarren pretends like he doesnt notice .
we stop in front of a door .
the knob is rusted and , after some struggle with the key , gabe heaves it open .
there we go , he says .
i give gabe a beseeching look .
the smile wavers from his face , and those gold flecked eyes turn serious .
trust me , youre getting the better deal , he says .
we all just kind of stand there , peering into the room .
ive never been to a place like this , never smelled a room so overwhelmingly stale or seen so many moths clinging to the walls .
mold seeps through a yellowed stain on the ceiling and rat droppings gleam on the carpet .
gabe glances in the room and wrinkles his nose .
yeah , this one is pretty bad .
well probably only be gone an hour or so .
as soon as were done , well leave .
stay inside the room , tarren instructs .
dont make any calls , dont let anyone in unless its one of us .
he stares are me , waiting for an affirmation .
sometimes tarrens eyes turn almost colorless , like frost .
i can almost hear the churn of his thoughts as he weighs the risk i represent , the need for delicacy in dealing with me .
his words echo again through my mind .
anything could set her off .
i know i have to be good about this me wallowing here , them going off to kill someone .
i swallow , nod , ignore the tugs of energy all around us from the other motel patrons .
i understand .
ill be okay here .
good luck .
here , gabe offers his psp .
ive got zombie hordes in there right now .
just make sure you dont save over my game .
i take the video game player , careful not to brush his skin .
just this one time , i say .
next time i go with you .
i know , gabe says .
they leave , but not before gabe offers me a few unsolicited zombie horde hints and tarren gives me an especially stark glower to tide me over during his absence .
i shift the curtains aside and watch the murano pull out of the parking lot .
off they go to do whatever it is that angel hunters do in order to find their prey .
i feel like i should shiver noticeably , or drop the curtain and turn broodingly into the shadows .
instead , i just stand there like a dolt , feeling adrift .
the hours lapse upon each other like large , slow waves .
i take off the hat , the sunglasses .
i dont want to go anywhere near the bed , so i sit indian style on the cleanest part of the rug .
for a while i stare at the door and think about how small a thing it is to turn a knob , to pull open a door , to step into the sunlight .
my old life is still out there .
karen .
henry .
school .
shakespeare ii .
i try to play zombie hordes .
i write apology letters to ryans family , and this causes sweet torrents of pain to course through me .
i beg forgiveness from his skinny , sallow skinned father .
i tell his plump , nervous mother that i would have gladly given my life for his .
then theres his sister , amy , who has down syndrome and who hugged with such abandon when we met for the first time .
what can i say to amy so that she will understand ?
what is there to understand about this at all ?
there are no lessons learned .
no spirits strengthened through suffering .
there is no comfort in the memories of beautiful moments and whispered endearments .
memories only bring pain and the aching helplessness of knowing that something has been irretrievably lost .
the third mouse goes after this , and when im done i hide the little frozen body under the bed , because i dont know what else to do with it .
after three hours in the room , i break tarrens rule and climb onto the roof from the back window .
i sprawl on the dirty concrete and let the sun filter directly onto my skin .
arizona has lots of sun to give me , and my body greedily soaks in the energy it provides .
i wait .
the boys dont come back .
i try not to worry or incessantly imagine multitudinous scenarios where one or both of them end up dead , torn to pieces by the bloody talons of an angel .
angels dont have talons , i know , but this doesnt stop my mind from engineering them along with leathery bat wings ripping from the angels shoulder blades as he sinks his fangs into gabes neck .
after another hour , i slip back into the room and vow to start searching for gabe and tarren if i dont hear from them by nightfall .
i know this is an empty threat , and so i vow all the more passionately .
the truth is i am half convinced that tarren finally persuaded gabe of my true danger , and the boys abandoned me here in this hellhole .
my consolation to this thought is that tarren would never just abandon me .
no , he would finish what he started a bullet through my brain .
one less angel to worry about .
it must have been the whetting sunrays on the roof , because without meaning to , i let my book fall out of my grip , lay my head down in my arms and drift off to sleep on the floor of the motel room .
my dreams are blurry and meaningless .
a voice whispering daughter , daughter .
ryan swooping down from the sky and snatching me up in his arms .
we kiss as his brown , leathery bat wings beat against the air and lift us up to the stars .
gabe is standing below us screaming , shit !
our lips part .
i look at ryans face .
baby , youre dead , i tell him .
then suddenly i am fully awake , crouching low , muscles tensing without knowing why or where i am .
the room is dark around me .
a noise .
the door handle turning .
squeaking hinges .
i feel a flow of energy come into the room .
tarren .
his face gives nothing away , but his body does .
a spray of blood arcs across his long sleeve shirt all the way up to his neck and jaw .
oh my god , i gasp .
something strange is tugging inside my chest .
it isnt mine , tarren says as he crosses the room with long , powerful strides .
he goes into the bathroom , shuts the door .
the shower hisses to life .
wheres gabe ?
i ask the spot where tarren was .
right here .
you miss me ?
gabe walks through the door carrying a duffle bag on each shoulder .
i look him over , assessing his aura for any hints of red .
the normal bright blue of his energy is muddied and pale , but its stable .
i scan his body , wincing when he reaches across the bed to turn on the lamp .
there are drops of blood on his sneakers , and smudges between his fingers where a quick washing didnt get them off .
were you sleeping on the carpet ?
gabe catches my stare and smiles .
i put a finger to my cheek and feel the imprint of the carpet fibers on my skin .
what happened ?
i ask .
did youuh .
gabe sets the duffle bags onto the bed .
uh huh .
got lucky .
this sicko liked to hang around his own crime scenes .
you know , get off on it .
he unzips one of the bags and picks out a set of clothes .
i know these are tarrens clothes not only by the smell , but also because gabe pulls out a long sleeved shirt and jeans with no holes in them .
gabe knocks on the bathroom door , opens it and drops in the clothes without looking .
we noticed him at the crime scene , gabe says as he closes the bathroom door and then carefully avoids the rat droppings as he makes his way back to the bed .
followed him until he was alone andwell , gabe shrugs .
clipped his wings .
killed him , i say .
the shower stops .
so , how fard you get with zombie hordes ?
gabe asks .
i dont have time to answer .
tarren is out of the bathroom in two minutes ordering me to the car .
gabe is already pulling a bottle of bleach out of tarrens duffle bag .
put the hat on , tarren calls after me as i slink out the door .
the murano smells like blood .
the seats look clean .
i follow the smell back toward the trunk .
with shaking hands , i lift the latch on the backseat and pull it down just a little .
a lumpy bundle wrapped in a tarp lies in the trunk .
gingerly , i put the seat back in place .
i turn around , fold my hands in my lap and try not to give into the maniac tears , laughter or screams that all struggle for release .
the boys are done cleaning the room in minutes .
i wonder if they found the dead mouse under the bed .
gabe gets behind the wheel .
seatbelts , he calls .
were going to meet a friend in las vegas , tarren tells me from the passenger seat .
well make it in about five hours .
is there a body in the trunk ?
i ask .
gabe no .
tarren yes .
the brothers look at each other .
gabe frowns .
tarren shrugs .
its just a bundle of , uh , hockey sticks , gabe says .
its too big to be hockey sticks , i say , and cant keep the waver out of my voice .
yeah , of course , gabe replies .
but , ah , thats because its a crash test dummy holding hockey sticks .
thats even less believable than just the hockey sticks , tarren informs his brother .
shut up .
gabe starts the car .
we pull out of the parking lot .
i hear the body listing in the trunk .
a little warbly moan catches in my throat .
maya , just dont think about it , gabe says .
okay , i say and try to put some power in my voice so it doesnt come out like a croak .
i search for my sunglasses and shove them on my face even though its dark outside again .
i dont want the boys to see me crying .
i dont want to be crying .
im so damn tired of my own tears .
chapter 29 we reach the outskirts of las vegas in the middle of the night and drop tarren off at a motel .
gabe and i find an animal shelter , and i learn that his hands are just as deft on locks and alarm systems as video game controllers .
gabe of all trades , he whispers , hat turned forward and pulled low over his face .
the animals erupt at my scent , and i scurry back out to the suv amid yips and low rolling growls .
gabe brings back a scarred pit bull , the leash wrapped tight around his hand .
the dog fights against the leash , throwing his head from side to side and squealing each time the collar bites into his neck .
no ones going to adopt this guy , gabe says as if that could possibly make anything better .
no one but us .
i kneel and pet the dog .
his body shivers , and he nips at my hand each time i come close to a wound .
ill keep a lookout , gabe says and quickly strolls to the other side of the car .
well , life can be a suckfest sometimes , i tell the dog as i slowly wrap the leash around my hand , dragging the unwilling creature toward me .
las vegas has a hangover in the morning .
the city is washed out , dry and nasty hot .
the lights blink and jive with futility against a brazen sun .
groups of tourists meander along littered sidewalks , and a few lone figures sway in and out of the shadows .
i watch one man lurch across the street , putting his hand on car hoods to keep himself up .
easy target , a thought whispers in my mind .
shut up , i think back .
shut up , shut up , shut up !
weve got to come back here when were done , gabe says , shading his eyes as he looks out the side window .
too many cameras , tarren replies .
but maya wants to see cirque du soleil .
its her dream of dreams .
why do you hate happiness ?
i dont really i begin .
your humility is heartwarming , gabe cuts in .
i might just try my hand at a little texas hold em while she watches the show , you know , just to pass the time stay focused , tarren says .
you play poker on your computer all day long , i add .
you guys suck .
you make lame people lookuh , much less lame orjust shut up .
gabe lays his head against the window .
we leave the city behind , and move through a sprawl of condos and houses capped with terracotta tiles and sitting on lawns composed of gravel and desert brush .
it all looks so different from the cramped , proudly weathered homes of connecticut .
the bundle in the trunk shifts whenever the car turns .
i hold a basketball in my lap , and bounce it on my knees .
i try not to think about why we are here or what tarrens scientist friend will want to do to me .
tarren takes a turn up a private road , and we pass by tall iron gates protecting houses that may have tumbled out of the british countryside .
the desert has been championed by water pipes , diligent lawn care workers and sheer human determination to snuff out inconvenient landscapes .
i imagine barons and dukes pulling on tall black boots and galloping out for a summer morning foxhunt through the majestic palm trees .
one gate is open .
little iron lions rear up on each post .
we turn and follow a cobbled road to what can only be described as an estate built out of gray stone and unashamedly flaunting a bevy of peaks and latticed windows .
the bushes twist up in carefully pruned majesty along the circular driveway , and lawn care workers scuttle back and forth from their trucks .
i search for the fountain and find it , a marble lion roaring out a gush of water .
while i am not gaping at the house or trying to count all the windows , tarren opens the back door opposite of me .
he shrugs on a backpack , hands gabe his computer bag and motions for the basketball .
would you call that a bevy of latticed windows ?
i ask and toss him the ball .
come on , is all he says back .
we wait at the door , and tarren rings the bell again .
i rock on the balls of my feet feeling conspicuous among the grandeur .
im wearing a little jean skirt with flip flops , because the other sandals they bought dont fit my wide feet .
tarren sweats in the blue jacket he wont take off .
gabe is in a rumpled x men t shirt , and his jeans are torn at both knees .
hes pretty much perfected the stoner look .
as for myself , the wide brimmed hat flip flop combo screams tweaker .
and tarren looks fine .
the jacket works , and the faded jeans give him an air of cool casual .
dammit .
a faint crash sounds from within the house followed by a high giggle .
someones been hitting the sauce again , gabe mutters under his breath .
muchos cervezas .
tarren frowns at his brother as the door swings open , and a large boned woman with an apparent fondness for loud colors leans against the frame .
her breasts swell beneath a tight , pink blouse .
a smile see saws its way onto her mouth as she sees me and then moves along to tarren .
oh troy !
she gazes at tarren .
oh , how wonderful .
youre here .
good afternoon mrs. hernandez , tarren says .
were here to spend some time with its miss hernandez now darling .
dont make me keep reminding you .
she gives a hiccupping laugh .
gabe snorts .
lee , hello sweetie , the woman drawls .
hola , youre looking lovely as usual .
gabe puts on his best grin .
good boy .
im fat and hideous .
una gorda .
but you two .
oh , you boys look good enough to eat !
her eyes linger on tarren .
this is buffy , gabe nods to me .
shes new to big brothers and big sisters , so were teaching her the ropes .
why , arent you a skinny little thing .
the woman gives me a crooked smile .
that hat , darling .
well , isnt that something .
thanks , i simply adore it .
who is it ?
a voice calls from inside the house .
its troy .
troy is here , the woman calls behind her .
get out the way .
a teenage boy squeezes in front of the woman and blinks up at us beneath a mop of black hair .
his eyes find mine and alight with interest .
we brought chutes and ladders , gabe says to him cheerfully .
you do know you have to be able to count to play that game , the boy responds in a voice that seems too deep for his thin body and young face .
well take it slow .
gabe ignores tarrens scowl .
thats what big brothers is for .
oh that sounds fun , miss hernandez murmurs as the kid glowers at gabe .
if you boys need anything , just go get it .
watch out , i think theres some broken glass .
alright carmen , the boy says , youve sufficiently embarrassed yourself for the time being .
were going to be in the lab .
dont bother us .
miss hernandez , tarren steps in quickly , why dont you let lee help you clean up that glass .
oh , how lovely of you .
the smile tips back onto the womans face .
lee , theres cookies in the kitchen .
you can have as many as you want as long as you dont let me touch em .
awesome , gabe says as the boy turns and stalks away into the house .
bring the car around back when youre done so we can unload the hockey sticks , tarren says to his brother , then nods for me to follow the boy into the house .
the kid is skinny as a wraith and his long loping gait leads us through a house made up of expansive rooms , tiled floors and curvy , modern furniture .
my cheapo sandals squeak on the floor as we pass through a dining room , a media room , a game room , something that seems like another dining room and then into a massive lounge .
a life sized painting looming over a completely pointless fireplace shows a muscular hispanic man wearing boxing gloves and shorts and leering with a mixture of pride , arrogance and a little stupid thrown on top .
he stands in a boxing ring , and two lions prowl behind him .
we take a back door and emerge into the sun behind the house .
i loosen my fists .
the song is still here , always here , but softens as my skin opens to the sunlight .
i am briefly distracted by a two tiered pool disappearing into a grove of lush plants .
stone lions guard the path .
i touch them and feel warm marble beneath my fingertips .
stupid lions .
stupid splendor .
lo , you should respect your mother , tarren tells the boy .
that booze hound ?
the boy shrugs .
shes worthless .
respect is earned , not given .
and its stepmother .
this is lo ?
i accuse tarren .
how old is he ?
the boy turns around and gives me an appraising look .
dark eyes sit under thick black brows .
he emotes a bad ass vibe with middling success .
hoops stand out on his nose and lip , and he wears a skull and cross bones t shirt .
how old you want me to be ?
none of that , tarren says sternly .
you said he was a brilliant scientist , i argue .
the boy stops .
his eyes blink rapidly .
im smarter than youll ever be , he states matter of factly .
also , lose the hat .
you look like some middle aged basket case who shows up at walmart in her pajamas in the middle of the day .
those women should just kill themselves already .
tarren gives me a warning look as i open my mouth to respond .
we continue past the pool to a large guest house set away from the rest of the property .
lo taps in a code on the keypad and presses his thumb against the screen .
fingerprint analysis , really ?
tarren asks .
were working on some dangerous shit in here troy .
got ta be careful .
a smug smile comes and goes on the boys face .
a green light blinks on above the door , and lo pulls it open .
bright white lights flicker on to reveal a sterile room that looks very labish in a kind of fake way that you see in movies or on television .
the air is cool and crisp , and i hear the hum of an air conditioner vibrating through the walls .
microscopes and racks of beakers sit on the counter tops .
a large table stands in the middle of the room connected to a machine that looks like a big , somewhat menacing donut .
how did you manage a ct scan ?
tarren asks .
lo blinks .
carmen and i agreed to a parent by purchase arrangement .
she buys me whatever i ask for , and i stop releasing hornets during her dinner parties .
its worked out quite nicely so far .
i gaze at the black freezer chest in the corner .
its large enough to fit a body .
several bodies .
i turn and notice lo staring at me .
he takes his time , running his gaze up and down my body .
his face remains passive , but his eyes are expressive and bright with curiosity .
his energy courses rapidly around his body , not jumpy like tarrens but quick and focused .
so this is the hybrid .
amazing .
lo shakes his head .
and a hottie too .
bonus .
tarren rolls the basketball into the corner , shrugs off his backpack and pulls out a notebook .
i discard the hat and sunglasses .
lo pulls on a black lab coat , skull and crossbones on the pocket .
you kind of look like that chick whos missing .
whats her name .
maya , tarren says as the heat rises in my face .
lo blinks and blinks again .
oh , no way .
holy jesus , mary and joseph , you two are unbelievable .
he lets out a high pitched laugh .
you guys are in deep shit .
everyone and their arthritic , cancer ridden grandmother is looking for her .
just shut up and do whatever it is youre supposed to do .
my voice trembles .
yeah , lo coughs and blinks .
he pulls open a drawer .
you know , this must be really traumatizing .
if you need a shoulder to cry on .
im here for you , baby .
lo , tarren warns .
im not a virgin , you know , lo continues , and ive read a lot of things .
ever hear of the kama sutra ?
i have it memorized .
raw , bright colors edge into his aura .
youre like twelve !
i shout .
thats not what my fake id says .
enough , tarren says quietly .
weve got work to do .
they do get to work .
tedious hours tick by as they examine me , take blood and hair samples and measure my radiation output .
i am poked and prodded , x rayed and scanned .
i lay on the table for long stretches of time reading the count of monte cristo as the boys peer at my blood beneath a microscope and murmur science jargon to each other .
i have elevated levels of this and a prominent reaction to that enzyme , which suggests manipulation of whatever complex .
at some point , gabe knocks on the door , and tarren goes out to meet him .
they come back carrying the tarp covered bundle .
freezer , lo says without looking up from his microscope .
i stare at the page of my book , keeping my eyes adhered to the blurry words .
still , i cant help but hear the sound of them lifting the body up and over the lip of the freezer .
it slides in and hits the bottom with a heavy whump .
the lid closes , and i turn to find gabe giving me a sympathetic expression .
silently , i beg him to stay .
keep searching for new hits , tarren tells his brother .
but gabe looks at me .
im mentally clinging to him like a frightened cat .
were fine .
bring us back some cookies in an hour or so , lo says .
gabe glowers at the boy .
go , tarren says , softening his voice .
we cant afford to let any angels slip by us .
i know this is true , but i need gabe to be here anyway .
i need his goofy grins , his lame chuck norris jokes and his unflappable confidence that everything will be all right , even if i know it isnt true .
on his way out of the room , gabe pauses next to me and whispers , dont let them do anything that makes you uncomfortable .
ill be right outside .
then gabe is gone , and tarren is planting a long needle into a vial of clear liquid .
i dont move at all except that my grip on the book puts indents in both covers .
im ready to spring onto the ceiling if he makes a lunge for me .
we need to put you to sleep , to take some bone marrow samples , tarren says .
no .
maya , this is important .
rainbow shimmers down the needle .
colors puddle on the floor .
fire licking up the insides of my bones .
if you drug me i might lose control .
i need to be alert , i say this matter of factly , putting granite in my eyes just like tarren does .
our eyes clash , granite on granite , grating stone dust between us , until tarren puts the needle down .
i lay on my stomach , gripping the head of the table and keeping my hands in plain sight .
lo rolls up my shirt , but he isnt making any jokes .
his energy pulses fast as he leans over me .
tarren stands a couple feet back holding the tranq gun at his side .
i can control it , i tell lo .
ive heard that before , lo says .
the energy around him jumps once , high off his body .
this means something , but i am too busy trying not to kill him to analyze it .
the needle goes in , hits bone .
lo pushes .
his energy is so near .
the song howls , and the pain joins in , peeling back the layers of my control .
i grip the table edge tighter and tighter , press my forehead into the polished surface .
hurry , i hiss .
im trying .
your bones arestronger than normal , lo says .
done .
he backs away quickly .
i let go of the table , breathe out a long , shuddering sob before slowly turning onto my back .
you did fine , tarren says , but he still clutches the tranq gun .
the menacing mechanical donut is last .
i lay on my back as the machine whirls and hums around me .
i have gabes ipod , and i try to listen to his hard rock playlist , but i turn it off when i hear the murmur of voices outside the machine .
i strain to catch the words .
just keep your voice down , tarren whispers .
well , muscle composition is definitely enhanced .
shes strong , lo says .
organs realigned .
lungs and heart oversized .
stomach and intestines shrunk .
she probably cant digest solids anymore .
yeah , tarren affirms .
bone structure matches the others weve seen .
tarren , lo whispers , shes got a fully constructed feeding mechanism .
its all here .
her numbers are lower , but shes made up just like one of them .
you said she only got one shot ?
has she shown any abilities ?
no , just the general enhancements .
weve been keeping her intake as low as possible .
well , allow me to repeat myself .
you two are in deep crapola here .
lo takes a long , hollow breath .
shes no hybrid shes an angel .
chapter 30 when tarren answers los accusation , his words are measured .
its not that simple , he says .
angels are human .
they just exhibit severely progressed expression of innate human potential .
bullshit .
if she eats from the energy buffet instead of meat , potatoes and caviar like the rest of us that means shes one of them .
tears gather in my eyes .
keep your voice down , tarren says .
all her physical indicators are lower than the others weve tested .
its possible that her energy needs are equally stunted .
he pauses and doubt laces his voice .
if she doesnt require as much sustenance , perhaps her hunger is more controllable .
the hell it is , lo retorts .
since when have you started believing in your brothers little fairy tales ?
theres no way to measure her capacity for control , and we have absolutely no evidence that lower physical symptoms correlates to lower appetite .
since all you bring me are dead bodies , we cant even do an anecdotal comparison .
shes not honest with me anyway , tarren murmurs .
oh , the soul sucker lies ?
big surprise .
theres another long pause .
shes shown some control so far , tarren responds .
finally .
look , shes cute , ill give you that .
i mean , great ass , really , lo says , but youve been keeping her in a controlled environment .
shes going to break .
you know she will .
something will set her off , and then what happens ?
she goes psycho in a grocery store .
she kills you in your sleep .
she drains that dumb brother of yours before you can alright !
tarren hisses .
i feel his energy flare before he corrals it down .
my oversized heart is pounding so hard that i wonder how it doesnt shake this donut to pieces .
please , please , please , i beg tarren silently .
defend me .
she could be the key , is what tarren says instead .
yeah , if she doesnt kill all of us first .
as the brainy sidekick , im going to be the first to die .
thats how it always goes .
bring her out , tarren snaps , which is to say , he doesnt deny anything that lo just said .
i hate him for this .
hate him , hate him , hate him .
especially his stupid jacket .
the machine retracts .
i sit up , yawn and rub my eyes , brushing the tears away .
hows it looking ?
i ask casually as i pull out the ipod ear buds .
its helping , tarren says .
his eyes meet mine then flick away .
were getting a lot of important information .
good .
i smile and stretch .
the tears are still building up behind my eyes .
i force them back and look at lo .
how did you get into the sidekick business ?
i ask him .
the boys energy spikes up again .
he blinks .
my popie , leo hernandez , boxer and douchebag extraordinaire .
now i recognize the man in the painting .
he was in the papers about two years ago .
murdered .
some sort of gang thing .
popie wanted to be the best , lo continues in his too deep voice .
gave it his all .
took all the right pills , stuck himself in the ass with syringes every day .
he would do anything to hit the other guy a little bit harder .
that was his whole philosophy in life .
respect goes to the last man standing .
i had a very pleasant childhood .
im sorry , i say .
no youre not .
lo looks at me .
his eyes carry something dark and powerful .
my father got himself infected , turned into an angel .
anything to get ahead .
im all for ruling the world , but i kind of prefer the old fashion way of duping the uninformed electorate .
lo smiles , but its a mean expression .
not my popie .
he thought i was weak .
didnt hold back his opinion on the matter .
i graduated high school at thirteen .
college at fifteen .
he didnt show up for either ceremony .
i embarrassed him .
eres una pinche debil marica ! , lo growls .
the energy churns swiftly around his body .
oh , i say , and yes , the dark part of me enjoys the spectacle of pain that lo doesnt realize hes emitting through his aura .
popie decided the only way to fix the situation was to infect me , hope i didnt die .
he thought it was worth the risk .
los voice cracks .
had the needle ready and everything before tarren and gabe crashed the party .
he deserved the bullets he got .
him and all the others .
my father is a bad man too , i say quietly and am saved from the dark flight of my thoughts by a knock on the door .
gabes muffled voice calls on the other end .
the energy ripples in excited hiccups around his body as he steps into the room .
i think weve got another angel .
where ?
tarrens voice is low .
redmond , washington .
keep working on this and email me the results , tarren tells lo .
he looks at his brother , then at me .
lets go .
the way he says it , i almost laugh but dont .
im in one of those moods again .
lo blows me a kiss , and i am grateful to escape the guest house my own chteau dlf .
part 3 chapter 31 oh troy , mi amor !
gabe pitches his voice high and leans across the seat , shouldering his brother .
que caliente .
besame , besame !
he puckers his lips , and tarren shoves him hard back into his own seat .
stop it , he growls and grips both hands on the wheel .
despite the fact that i now consider tarren my mortal enemy for life , i have to admit he has a good growl .
im convinced he must practice his growls and grimaces and expressions of sheer focus in the mirror at night .
ay caramba !
gabe tries to laugh it off , but hes quiet for a long while afterward .
time moves , miles move , the sun dips in the sky .
im in a terrible mood , an angel mood .
again and again i replay the snide certainty in los warnings and then construct outraged , brilliant , eloquent rebuttals that tarren should have offered in my defense .
when that just gets too damn pitiful , i decide to keep picking at my scabs , the deepest , bloodiest ones .
i pull out my journal and write jostled apology letters to my parents .
henry first , because i dont have to get sentimental with him , except that i unexpectedly do .
its not that i ever thought he didnt like me its that he had work , and i looked nothing like a desk or a computer monitor .
but there are little things that i only appreciate now that hell never know .
i apologize for leaving him alone with karen and giving her an entirely new cornucopia of emotional ailments to suffer from .
i apologize that i never sat down and watched the game with him , that i never asked about how any of his business trips went or thanked him for supporting his family .
each year we drifted farther and farther apart on our different tracks of life .
i wish i could tell him how sorry i am that i never not once tried to reach over and pull us closer together .
and then it is over .
henry is boxed up and tucked away in two pages .
tender , painful boxes , but at least i can pack them tight in the back of my mind and keep the lights out .
karen is harder , because there is a lot to apologize for and a lot of resentment to try and hose off .
my resentment is gooey and heavy and black like tar .
i hate hospitals because of her .
i hate nurses and lollipops and linoleum .
i knew what metastasized meant when i was six .
i knew about polyps and lyme disease and dementia and blood borne pathogens and how much rat feces is legally allowed in the average candy bar .
but there was also the find maya t shirt that she wasnt supposed to be wearing , the fervent hugs she would allow when i was upset and those damn organic cookies she made when i got dumped by miguel foster in middle school .
i spend four pages exhuming trespasses , and ive still got many more to go .
im beginning to realize that i might just have been a very terrible daughter .
gabe looks up from his laptop .
you tired ?
wan na switch soon ?
he asks tarren .
yeah , theres an exit coming up , tarren says .
we can grab some food .
he pauses and his energy flicks .
we should also put together a bag for maya .
she doesnt need a bag , gabe responds .
sure i do , i close my notebook a little too hard .
bags are the best .
just in case , tarren says , ignoring me .
theres no just in case , gabe snaps back .
his energy spikes , and i sit up straight , edge my hands under my thighs .
im not saying we give her a gun tarren starts .
no , shes not getting a bag , a gun , anything .
she stays out of it tarren .
whoa , im right here , i wave in the backseat .
of course i need a bag and a gun .
theres a sawed off shotgun in the trunk right ?
ill take that one .
this isnt a joke !
gabe takes off his seatbelt and twists around to look at me .
but you promised , i say , and im trying to put all sorts of authority in my eyes like tarren does .
only , its so hard to keep my eyes on gabes face .
his aura is growing bright , expanding within the tight confines of the car .
youre the one who proposed that i help fight in the first place , i tell gabe and then brilliantly parrot back his words from that night none of us talks about .
think about it .
shell get strong .
shell get fast .
she can fight with us .
i was trying to save you from getting your fucking head blown off i wouldve said anything !
gabes voice is rising , and so is the hunger , filling up the car with its melody and making my head champagne dizzy .
maya , tarren says , but i hate him , hate him , hate him , and i couldnt care less what his eyes are warning .
and that was all well and good , but i want to fight , i insist .
you dont want this life .
gabe clutches the headrest with both hands .
you cant keep me stuffed in that house until tarren magically comes up with a cure .
how exactly do you propose to reverse this whole situation anyway ?
i hold up my gloved hands , and damn , theyre glowing a little and tarren sees it and gets that stormy look on his face , which just goes terrifically with the exasperated ive got my shit together why dont you ?
look that he was already wearing .
this is when i should stop , but i dont .
im a freak , i yell .
ill never be able to live a normal life or ever be happy again .
might as well pass around the superhero kool aid .
alright , tarren is trying to say , but if i didnt have enhanced senses i probably wouldnt have heard him , because gabe is hollering back , dont you say that !
tarrens going to find a and were all going to live happily ever after !
i shriek .
why not , huh ?
gabes voice is suddenly low , raspy .
why cant we win ?
youre unbelievable !
i want to kill them both .
oh no .
gabes energy is glowing bright , shredding the layers of my control .
no , no , no , no !
i realize too late that i havent been minding the monster .
i really do want to kill them , and im not sure i have enough strength to stop myself .
chapter 32 my whole body shudders violently as i twist away from gabe and cross my arms over my chest so that im pinning them to the backseat .
maya ?
somethings wrong .
gabes voice shifts from anger to concern .
did she feed at all today ?
tarrens got daggers in his eyes !
i yell out for no reason .
tarren whips across lanes and pulls onto the side of the highway .
he locks all the doors as i reach to stumble out .
i need some air , i moan .
we cant let her out of the car , not like this , tarren says .
gabe , get back .
im fine , im fine , im fine , i moan and press my head against the seat as hard as i can .
even though my eyes are closed , i can still see the glow of their energies pulsing beneath my lids .
maya and the monster are grappling for control inside my head , but there is no monster .
lo said im an angel , and tarren parsed it to pieces , but didnt deny the underlying truth .
its all just me in here fighting against my own instincts .
for the first time , i notice that the song is beautiful delicate and powerful at the same time .
it sends sweet tendrils of flame through the chemical corridors of my brain , seizing all the functions of my body and honing them to this one single need .
the song offers me the promise of bliss .
maya , well get you something to eat , put together a bag for you , i swear , but you have to calm down , gabe says .
calm like the forest .
like the desert .
like the ocean .
none of those things are calm , i moan .
control it , tarren orders .
you dont know , i whisper .
the last noise for a long time , except for the song which pulls and pulls and the whoosh of cars passing by .
cars filled with people who dont have to wear gloves who dont wake up terrified in the night convinced they will eventually kill someone no matter how hard they repress the instinct .
in this moment , i hate those people .
all of them .
everyone in the world who gets to not know about angels , who doesnt have to be one .
and this brings me back .
i sigh , and gabe sighs , and tarren takes his hand off the gun at his waist .
this may or may not be the tranq gun .
gabe brings me back a hutch of four rabbits , while i stay in the car , hands balled into fists and tucked between my legs .
because i beg , tarren lets me crouch behind the suv and drain the biggest rabbit in the parking lot .
i get my bliss , short and sharp as it is .
a car pulls up in the next spot over , and a little girl hops out of the back seat .
i see frizzy black hair , a green dress and pale violet blue energy that skips fast ellipticals around her frame .
tarren , who stands guard next to me but pointedly looks over my head as i feed , tenses and uncrosses his arms so that his hand is closer to the gun at his waist .
im pretty sure now that this is the tranq gun .
the little girl spots me hugging the dead rabbit , coming down from the high of its energy .
needing more .
i smile at the girl and pet the dead creature in my arms .
just got him , i say , and the little girl beams .
im getting a guinea pig , she says .
i like those too , i reply .
the girl prances over to her mother .
when they enter the store , i throw the rabbit down a sewer grate .
the fox brothers do a quick target run for me .
i dont even ask if i can go in .
i just lie on the back seat , close my eyes and dont think about the rabbits hanging out in the trunk , being alive and taunting me with their whippet quick hearts all thudding out of sync .
when they come back , gabe puts my new bag in the trunk , and i make like nothing possibly portending a fratricidal end to our little family has recently occurred .
did you remember the underwear ?
gabes laugh has only a touch of strain .
yep , pretty pink underwear with bows on the front .
i can tell from tarrens face that ive lost all the dust motes of his trust id painstakingly collected over the last weeks .
not that i care .
gabe takes the wheel and announces we are in for a treat .
the treat turns out to be disc one in a series of angel hunting soundtracks that gabe has apparently compiled with some relish .
this elicits a knowing groan from tarren .
i think youre giving your brother indigestion , i tell gabe as he cranks up eye of the tiger .
nah , thats actually what he looks like when hes happy .
hard to tell the difference , i know .
we continue through the night .
the darkness is a blanket around us .
the music drums inside my head .
churning car .
tarrens energy is jumping , always jumping , and gabe is humming along to the music , because he is incapable of being quiet for one single second .
my hands are hot .
i tuck them under my legs and dont think about the rabbits .
i think about ryan , but he has no eyes just worms crawling out of the empty sockets , so i dont think of him .
i think about karen and henry , but karen is wearing a find maya t shirt , and henry looks so tired .
so i think about maya , but maya is thinking about rabbits , bright little rabbits , so im thinking about rabbits again .
the dim glow of the dashboard offers enough light for my eyes .
i finish karens letter in six pages , skipping some of my more forgivable blunders .
i cant apologize enough for leaving her alone for being alive and letting her suffer my death .
the worst stain of all i save for last and scrawl it hastily on the bottom line , crowding the letters to make it fit .
i always secretly resented karen for not being my real mother .
now ive just got one letter left .
one more monumental apology .
avalon destroyed forever , but i cant even think about that right now .
i just cant .
sometime in the night we all switch seats .
now im in the front , tarren is at the wheel and gabe lies down across the back seat , tucking in his legs .
seatbelts , he tells us , clicking the middle strap around his waist before promptly falling asleep .
tarren glances at me when he thinks im not looking .
i see a grim determination on his face and imagine this is the same way he would size up an enemy .
his energy flicks dangerously , the dark blues growing brighter at the edges .
why dont you tell people ?
my voice comes out as a too loud chirp .
tell them about the angels ?
tarren guesses correctly .
okay , so the cops might laugh at first , but you could catch the angels on tape .
hell , you have me now .
i could show the world .
as soon as this hits the light , the fbi would be all over it .
thered be a task force , 60 minutes expos , they could no , tarrens voice is sharp .
people wouldnt be able to handle it .
well , yeah , they might freak out at first , but once they recognized the danger , they could mobilize you dont understand , tarren says , and , as always , his face is a hostile landscape , cold and closed .
they wouldnt be afraid .
they would want to become angels .
what ?
anyone who ever dreamed of being stronger , faster , smarter would demand to be changed .
it wouldnt take long for a team of entrepreneurial scientists to crack the code and remake the original formula .
anyone with enough money and the inclination to be part of a new master race could buy their way in .
tarrens voice takes on the tones of a doomsday prophet .
there would not be enough guns , enough bullets in the world to stop them if the formula ever got out .
the population would fragment into angels and food .
but i manage .
so far the angels have kept themselves hidden .
were not sure why .
maybe they know theyre not strong enough to stand up to a united military offense if the world ever figured out how dangerous they were .
or maybe its just greed they dont want to share what they have .
whatever the reason , theyre not talking and were not talking .
but if grand ever does rediscover the formula , hell be able to spread the disease faster than any army could stop him .
oh , i say .
the risk is too great , tarren insists , though im not arguing anymore .
our parents weighed all the options .
the public cant know , for their own protection .
its only us .
i put the window all the way down .
the cold fingers of the wind feel good on my face .
i stare out across the night , trying not to think about how utterly hopeless and stupidly funny it seems that two grungy kids and a tweaker angel girl are supposed to save the world .
we stop for gas .
i open the glove compartment and hand tarren his cap , which he pulls low over his face before stepping out .
my own straw fashion gem is in the back seat , so i take gabes lucky hat from the pocket in the side door and put it on despite the smell .
after tarrens got the gas pumping , i lean out of the open window .
we still have a score to settle even if he doesnt realize it yet .
tarren ?
dont turn your face to the cameras , he says sharply .
i ignore him .
i need something inside .
what is it ?
never mind , ill get it .
i open the door , and tarren pushes it shut .
but , i need chapstick , i whine .
i think we have some in the car somewhere .
and tampons .
what ?
i need tampons .
im on my period .
right now .
it just started .
if you could grab some aspirin too , while youre in there , im cramping like crazy .
tarren searches my face for any hint of deception , but the darkness is all stirred up inside of me , and i give him a perfect grimace of discomfort .
he launches his granite face arctic eyes combo attack , but i do not waver under the barrage .
its up to you , i shrug .
as long as you dont mind blood all over your car .
and not just any blood i pause for dramatic effect and lower my voice .
menstrual blood .
fine , tarren growls and turns on his heels .
supermax please , i call out after him .
im pretty much gushing .
his hands clench into fists .
i fall back against the seat and smile .
pants on fire , gabe calls out .
i catch his elf eyes open and bright in the rearview mirror .
but that was pretty awesome .
you should really clean this thing once in a while , i toss the hat back at him .
what , and wash all the luck out ?
gabe crosses his arms over the hat and drifts back to sleep .
its just past one in the morning .
a new day that feels no different from the last .
chapter 33 we make it to redmond , washington in the morning , though you would hardly know it .
a thick bank of clouds hangs heavy in the sky , their faces gray and threatening .
pale light trickles through the cover and casts a pall across the lush forestry that lines the highway .
the air smells wet and earthy .
gabe guides tarren to a motel , and i wait in the suv while they check in .
i hum to myself .
gabes habit must be contagious .
i dont know what song im humming , so i supply my own words .
monster maya eats bunnies wants to kill you too angel girl in the floppy hat whats a monster to do , do , do the brothers argue about rooming arrangements as soon as they think im out of earshot .
i try not to listen by only kind of straining to catch their words .
tarren proposes one room with two beds and a rotating watch .
he doesnt say what theyre watching for .
gabe proposes that tarren is a paranoid tight ass and that this is maya theyre talking about .
he points out that the little incident back there was nothing really and that since she me is terrified of tarren seeing as he tried to kill her me that one time not so long ago , it would be best for everyone if tarren took a second room and stopped being a total prick if at all possible .
do you really trust her ?
tarren asks his brother .
we have to , gabe says .
how else is she going to get through this ?
were all that she has , and fuck , look at us .
that aint much .
the room is done in beige , nice and impersonal .
i scan the carpet but find no immediate sticky black globs .
i also notice that the television remote is not bolted to the table .
it seems weve moved up in the world .
i put my gray duffle bag on the bed nearest to the window and unzip it , curious of its contents .
i see jeans .
something black .
tennis shoes , not wide .
a pack of underwear .
gabe lied , theyre plain and white .
some t shirts and other safe target buys .
i sigh .
what ?
gabe drops his own bag at the foot of the other bed .
he already has his laptop out .
i want to buy my own clothes .
i already have grandma underwear .
i wave the package at him .
tarren takes this opportunity to step into the room and glower at me .
i have a mad urge to throw the underwear at his head .
his energy field is low and hazy , and reading the exhaustion he tries to hide gives me some pleasure .
tarren sets down the hutch of rabbits near the door , which is to say , as far away from my bed as possible .
their odor fills the room , and i cant help but glance at them longingly .
im already missing the sun , and weve only been in this state for a couple of hours .
washington blows .
i like that one .
gabe is looking at a rabbit standing separate from his huddled , shivering companions .
the animal has soft , silver gray fur , the color of the clouds hanging over the city , and a splash of white across his forehead that dribbles down the bridge of his nose .
his ears hang down on each side of his face , giving him a sad countenance .
mr. brave is clinging onto the mesh with his front paws and pushing his nose through the wire .
he seems oblivious to my evil monster vibe .
dont get attached , tarren says .
i give gabe a sheepish oops , sorry im a killer of small and adorable animals smile .
gabe shrugs and puts his laptop on the desk .
alright , heres the deal .
we got two bodies .
both found at marymoor park .
three days ago it was a dead homeless guy lying in the brush .
called it a heart attack .
he was 32 .
day after that , they have a concert in the park .
guy goes off to pee in the woods , doesnt come back out .
another heart attack ?
tarren asks .
bingo , yahtzee and connect four .
guy was 44 .
and get this , a runner just went missing yesterday .
in the park .
tarren says .
its not a question .
gabe nods .
theyre searching for her now .
police suspicious ?
nah .
heart attacks all around so far .
if they find that runner theyll call it the same thing .
gabe is at the desk , pulling up windows on his computer , and tarren sits on the bed behind him .
they have melded into a cohesive unit , speaking quickly , plugging into the same thought pattern .
even their energies seem to be syncing gabes speeding up , tarrens smoothing down .
the envy inside of me is sudden and sharp .
theyve had each other all these years a brother to depend on , to worry about , to argue with and care for .
all i got was a damn guinea pig .
i stand next to the bed , trying to look serious and engaged .
this is one big ass park were talking perfect angel killing ground , gabe continues .
over 600 acres filled with people wandering off by themselves .
kids , dog walkers , runners , hikers , those crazy bird watching people .
total nightmare .
but why isnt the angel moving on or at least spreading out the kills to multiple locations ?
tarren asks .
gabe turns in his chair and shrugs .
its possible weve got a newbie here .
doesnt know the tricks of the trade yet .
then again , this angel really doesnt need to move .
this whole state is filled with humongo parks .
lots of people running alone , hiking away from others .
heart attacks happen all the time .
whats the history here ?
high wealth area .
you got microsoft and nintendo just around the corner .
lots of executives and well paid engineers .
these guys know the right people and could definitely buy their way in .
wait a minute .
gabes eyes get big .
do you think it could be bill gates ?
oh my god !
all those mosquito nets for african orphans were just a cover .
diabolical !
tarren ignores his brother .
first thing weve got to do is confirm were really dealing with an angel .
could just be some heart attacks .
gabe rolls his eyes .
witness statement describes our dead homeless guy as ice cold .
dude got touched by an angel in a very bad way .
gabe smirks and looks up to his brother .
alright , then weve got to move fast , tarren says .
yeah , i say .
both brothers ignore me .
i call park , gabe says .
i did the morgue last time , tarren scowls .
yeah , because you never call it .
thems the rules .
maya and mell sweep the park , see what we can find .
you get a look at those bodies .
radiation is confirmation .
yeah , i say again .
both brothers turn to look at me for the first time .
tarren sifts through his huge arsenal of expressions which includes such favorites as grimace , scowl and glower , and determines a slight frown will do the job now .
be careful , tarren says softly to his brother before turning to leave .
he pauses at the door .
you too maya .
it sounds like a threat .
chapter 34 at marymoor park , gabe and i present ourselves at the check in table to participate in the search for sunshine bailey , the runner who went missing yesterday .
i scrawl mercedes dantes onto the sign in sheet .
we accept a park map , two orange vests , a bright red whistle and a folder filled with emergency numbers , a guide to constructing a splint from a tree branch and missing person flyers .
while we receive instructions from a search organizer , i keep my head down and pretend to study the flyer of sunshines smiling face .
the missing woman is pale as milk , has dark , pretty eyes , round cheeks , and short curls .
the combination of her features immediately strikes me as someone whose profession requires scrubs nurse , dental hygienist , something along those lines .
sorry sunshine , i think .
you are dead .
no tree branch splints for you .
how do you feel about some sweet vengeance in the near future ?
i might be able to arrange that .
gabe politely declines to be included in the larger search groups .
well just go our own way and whistle if we see anything , he tells the woman at the table .
her chins tremble .
bless your precious hearts .
we don our orange vests , a perfect complement to my hideous straw hat , and make our way into the park .
the air is chilled and soggy gabe is underdressed in a t shirt and jeans but doesnt seem to mind .
the clouds give up sunlight in sporadic hiccups that arent worth chasing .
we follow a wide path past trimmed fields and what a sign tells us is a community garden before finding a trail and moving into the woods .
i notice posters flapping against trees .
missing sunshine .
missing dogs .
lots of missing dogs .
gabe pauses to tear down a flyer for a lost golden retriever named buckeye .
he tucks it in his pocket before continuing on .
the forest is alive with chirps and scrapes and gnaws and smells that light up my brain .
i follow closely behind gabe , trying not to wobble as i catch more scents and attempt to process the cacophony of new sounds around us .
we tramp along the trail , and gabe half heartedly calls sunshines name while i get myself in order .
i hear other voices across the park raising the call .
stupid hope .
gabe pulls us off the main trail , following small veins of beaten dirt through thick hedges of spruce and pine .
birds take wing overhead , and i cant help but turn my head toward each new noise .
my hands are pulsing with heat , and i ball them into fists .
though i can still hear the other volunteers nearby , i suddenly feel like were alone and vulnerable .
a branch snaps behind me , and i shiver .
gabes energy is smooth and controlled , though i notice it moves fast and tight around his body .
do you think its here ?
the angel ?
in the woods somewhere ?
i ask him .
gabe looks up from his map and shrugs .
dont know .
probably not .
it seems to come out in the evening .
does any of this ever scare you ?
i feel like were in the opening credits of a cheesy horror flick .
i step over a twisted root .
this is kind of my hobby , remember ?
gabe smiles .
he seems to have a lot of different smiles .
some are sad smiles , and some are thoughtful like the one perching on his lips now .
some hide things .
gabe and his smiles .
tarren and his frowns .
maya and her sighs .
not ever ?
ferns reach out and brush my socks .
a ruddy flame sparks and dies in gabes aura .
the smile on his face grows wider , and this is how i know hes going to lie .
nah , course not .
he shrugs and keeps walking .
im a warrior , baby .
death , destruction , and impossible escapes are what i live for .
much like chuck norris .
of course .
forget i asked .
the low hanging branches keep clutching at my hat , and i have to put a hand on the brim to keep it in place .
we stop , and gabe consults his map again .
they found the homeless guy bout a quarter mile up the trail .
he shrugs off his backpack and pulls out a bright yellow box .
its bigger than a lunch box , with a handle jutting out from the top .
i lean over the machine and watch as a needle beneath its faceplate jumps to attention .
do you mind ?
gabe arches an eyebrow .
radiation detector .
not very useful with you standing next to me .
i step back , and something twists in my stomach or the place where my stomach used to be .
gabe , is it safe for you to be around me ?
i ask .
with the radiation ?
gabe fiddles with the device .
uh huh , we started taking radiation pills for that , and tarren will test our blood at the end of the month .
its cool .
oh .
i tug off a wide leaf and twist it between my fingers .
its cool maya .
really .
sometimes i forget how weird this all is .
everyones weird , he shrugs and gives me a warm smile .
speaking of gabes smiles , they are the most powerful smiles of anyone i know , seemingly able to resist even the most direct onslaughts of reality .
were just slightly weirder than most .
at least we dont collect beanie babies .
i give him the laugh hes looking for , and we share one of those moments that are becoming more familiar and more important to me .
stay here , gabe says .
ill sweep and see if i can pick up a trail .
he takes several steps forward , stops , turns to me and says , chuck norris does not sleep .
he waits .
ponder that , and then resumes his tracking .
i do not ponder chuck norris .
i ponder all the little snacks scurrying up the trees and weaving through the plants .
then i remember why were here and ponder how terrifying it would be if some mad , foaming super human suddenly dropped down out of the trees and disemboweled me with its bare teeth .
not that angels disembowel people , but ive still got those cheesy horror flicks on my mind .
i look up into the trees , straining to catch some sense of a predator lurking up there .
then it dawns on me the only thing that seems to be dawning in this dismal state that if i were an angel , or at least an angel looking for a human snack , the trees are exactly where i would hide .
i ditch the hat and climb up a thick tree .
needles digs into my skin and hair .
im not sure what im looking for .
claw marks ?
a convenient bloody handprint ?
i stand on a high branch and walk out as far as its strength will support my weight .
scanning the vast area , i try to imagine what route the angel would have taken .
it looks like a whole valley of christmas trees fanning out in front of me .
they halt at a wide expanse of river .
moisture hangs in the air , so does the fresh piney scent of the trees , the animal odors and the fresh release from the wet forest floor .
i breathe in , close my eyes and jump , letting instinct take my body .
i dont catch a scent , dont find footprints on the air , but i know the angel has been here .
its discovered this same natural pathway through the trees , leaped along the branches just as i am now , thrilled at the freedom , the rush of motion .
a while later , my eyes spot an unnatural shade of blue among the leaves , and i find a snag of clothing on a sharp point in the bark .
im seventy feet off the ground , standing on a thick branch that none but the most dexterous or pick axe wielding humans could climb .
i loosen the fabric and rub the soft fleece between my fingers .
the swatch is too small to guess at its origins .
a jacket ?
i close my eyes and inhale the fabrics scent .
the angel .
im deep in the woods now , not near any paths , not anywhere even the most rugged woodsman would wander .
why would the angel come this far away from its quarry ?
i sit down on the branch and take in the world around me .
my eyes find lush tree tops and foggy mountain silhouettes in the distance .
lake sammamish to my right , dark and placid .
the wind thoughtfully explores my face , touching soft lips to my cheeks .
i think i understand .
the angel came here to be alone .
as alone as the hunger will allow .
maybe not a complete monster after all .
maybe something in between .
like me .
i hear gabes voice calling .
i hadnt realized how far id gone , and i quickly make my way back .
he calls out my name again , and i am unexpectedly stirred by the notes of worry in his voice .
without thinking , i leap from the tree to land in front of him .
gabe whips out his gun .
his aura flares up , all spiky , dark and violent .
the expression on his face is intent and murderous .
chapter 35 gabe ?
i whimper .
jesus !
he blinks and lowers his gun .
his brows come together , and he grimaces , as if in pain .
im sorry , i say , feeling the blood come rushing into my cheeks , you sounded worried .
justdont do that again .
ever .
gabe tucks the gun back into his waistband , and his eyebrows come away .
he softens his voice .
i didnt know where you were .
i assess his aura , looking for his true emotions , but , as always , they follow his face .
the color is calming down to his natural blue , and the spikes recede to a steadier flow .
i wasnt able to pick up on a trail , but tarren called from the morgue .
weve got radiation on concert guy , gabe says .
he hands me back my hat .
radiation is confirmation , i say and am relieved to see him smile .
i found something too .
i pull the fabric swatch from my pocket .
we pick up tarren from the hospital .
i watch in the rearview mirror as he flips open his briefcase and tucks his glasses into the side pocket .
next goes the medical tech badge .
howd it go dr. mcdreamy ?
gabe asks .
radiation on the body , tarren replies .
he shrugs off his blazer .
angel .
stakeout ?
gabes eyes flick to the mirror .
tarren nods .
both their energies rise , tarrens all pointy and nervous , gabes a general swelling with little ripples all along the edges .
i dont know what this means yet , what complex emotion they are unconsciously sharing with each other .
my turn , gabe sighs .
tarren follows us to our beige room .
i give the rabbits a longing glance .
im beginning to twitch again , and i wrap my arms around my body , pressing my hands hard against my ribs .
tarren unzips a side compartment of my duffle bag .
we leave in half an hour , he says to gabe who nods and collapses backward on his bed .
i expect him to argue against my participation but he doesnt .
good , because theres no way in hell im sitting out another mission even though im getting queasy and itchy in weird places all over my body .
take this .
tarren hands me a rough stone block .
and this .
a little black bottle with no label drops into my hand .
this is that thing the pedicure people use , i say rubbing my fingers across the stone .
pumice .
tarren looks like hes frowning even when hes not .
maybe its the expectation of his displeasure , or maybe hes somehow perfected a way to frown only with his voice .
go in the shower .
let the water run over your body then scrub with the stone .
but everywhere .
push hard they use this on peoples feet , you cant go over everything twice .
then turn the water off and rub the lotion on your entire body .
hair too .
dont miss anywhere what is it ?
come on this is we wait two minutes then rinse off .
theres an outfit in there for you .
black .
i hear a sound from the bed , but when i turn gabes got his eyes closed .
it sounded like a snort .
what kind of outfit ?
i ask , suspicion mounting .
we didnt have a lot of time tarren begins , but im already pawing through the bag .
these are pajamas !
i accuse , pulling out black stretch pants .
you want me to wear pajamas on a stakeout ?
gabe is sitting up on the bed , his eyes twinkling in an extremely unsettling way .
not just any pajamas i unfold the shirt and cry out in horror .
a smiling teddy bear sits on the front holding a pink heart between its paws .
its beady black eyes mock .
no .
no way .
it was the only black outfit in your size , tarren tells me .
what about the boys section ?
did you check the boys section ?
oh .
this isnt funny !
i scream at gabe who is snickering behind me .
i huff to the bathroom and slam the door .
half hour , tarren calls after me .
man , she is pissed , i hear gabe say to his brother just before i turn the water hot and begin to scrub .
the pumice eats away at my skin , but i dont mind .
i push harder , leaving angry red rashes across my breasts and stomach .
the pain helps distract me from the hunger , but the scrubbing also seems to be wearing away my barriers , allowing carefully guarded emotions to seep through .
fear escapes first .
suddenly .
utterly .
fear of anything and everything , but mostly because im so damn tired .
why do i still lose my breath at random moments in the night , paralyzed with the conviction that this cant possibly be real ?
why is it so quickly followed with the equally certain conviction that im a monster , that im losing control , that its only a matter of time before i give in wholly to the song ?
the lotion burns and reeks of alcohol .
i grit my teeth as i wipe down my raw skin with the gooey mess .
i didnt realize that two minutes could possibly take this long that seconds could endeavor to stretch themselves so far before breaking .
when i come out , gabe is sitting at the desk reviewing maps of marymoor park on his laptop .
hurts like a bitch right ?
thats the best thing about being bait .
i get to stink .
gabe leans back in his chair and looks me over .
man , that outfit .
he shakes his head .
sorry about that .
i told tarren his voice trails off as he looks up and sees the expression on my face .
the bear on my chest pants angrily .
its everything about this day and the hunger still here , growing loud .
maya , dont go with us tonight , gabe says , but im not about to let him get started on that again .
i walk over to the rabbit cage and pull open the door .
not the gray one , gabes voice is soft .
you shouldnt get attached , i say , coating frost over my words and sounding more like tarren then i meant to .
the gray rabbit stands apart from its huddled companions and stares at me with bright black eyes that seem strangely aware .
its nose trembles .
i reach around and pull out one of the remaining white bunnies .
i cant get my glove off fast enough .
the explosion of energy when my palm connects to the animals energy field is riveting .
i slump against the bed , eyes closed , forcing my breathing to slow .
i drop the limp body on the floor .
gabe turns his face away , but i catch the flicker of disgust .
ive been meaning to ask i pull my glove back on , wriggling my fingers through the holes .
the words dont come .
the only questions left are the dangerous ones .
the ones that might be lions in disguise .
about what ?
gabe picks at the holes in the knees of his jeans .
about how you found me .
why you came back after all those years .
gabe flinches like ive pressed against an open sore , and now i know ive made a mistake .
grand found out about you .
how ?
grand has his ways .
tarren and i , we never meant for this to happen , for you to be dragged into all this .
youve said that already .
i just want you to know that .
gabe is studying his knees intensely .
we never tried to find you .
it was safer that way .
you were supposed to be happy .
be normal .
i believe you .
im not asking for forgiveness i wont ever ask for that .
this is my brother gabe , in his scruffy jeans , dirty tennis shoes , laces tangled with knots , and that sad sad look digging deeper into his face .
just tell me the rest .
grand got sloppy .
showed up on our radar in nashville , though we didnt know it was him at the time .
we almost caught up to him too , but he slipped away just before we got to this huge condo he was staying in .
he left a laptop behind .
everything was encrypted of course , and not that pansy off the shelf crap .
this was big time .
took me a couple days , but i cracked it .
gabe gives himself a congratulatory smile .
we learned that he was looking for you had hired the best trackers , given them every resource available .
they were close .
it was only a matter of time , maya .
we had to find you first .
we had to protect you .
why does grand even care about me ?
his family takes blood very seriously .
like you .
thats different .
bloods all we got .
all we get .
gabe clears his throat , brushes the hair out of his eyes .
mom did a good job of hiding you .
she never told us where , well , never even told us about you until just before she died .
so how then ?
me being a genius , of course .
a smile flickers on gabes face but doesnt get far .
and tarren , a little .
he was six years old when you were born .
mom must have thought he would forget if she never spoke of you , but he didnt .
he remembered that mom took us for a long ride a little while after you were born .
you were crying and stinking and generally annoying him even from your earliest days .
finally , she stopped at some motel and put us all to bed .
the next morning , you were gone .
what did she tell him ?
this feels so hollow , like were talking about someone else .
this isnt my life , my mother driving me to exile with such conviction .
he doesnt remember , gabe replies , just that you were gone .
which , for our purposes , meant that you could be anywhere .
thats when me and my genius brain got involved .
i take a long breath and try to concentrate .
outside , the light is fading away , leaving a damp , uninterested gray to embrace the coming night .
rain patters light fingers on the roof of the motel , and i envision just this very same grizzled and lifeless day when my mother kissed me for the last time and left me in the cold .
gabe is still speaking , from there , all i had to do was find a needle in a pile of needles .
i downloaded records from every orphanage in the country for the years we thought you might have been born , and i put together this huge list of names and social security numbers .
mom didnt leave any clues .
we had nothing , until .
what ?
my voice is all breathy , more air then sound .
tarren remembered that you had a birthmark on your back somewhere , which was better than nothing , but honestly , not much .
and then i dont hear him anymore .
im in a vacant storage unit , shivering , weeping , as a naked bulb swings its too bright spotlight over me .
the stranger trails his fingers down my shoulder .
searching for something .
i push the memory back , way back , chain it to the farthest corner of my mind , spin a whole roll of duct tape around its mouth , pull a hood over its face and slap it around a little just for good measure .
when i come back up for air , the room seems to be tilting , and all the sounds and smells and hungers that i have been keeping at bay all rush back into my consciousness .
i have to sit down on the bed and plunge my hot hands deep into the comforter .
i shiver .
... put together some wicked searches .
name by name .
mostly for images , filtering out all the girls on my list who didnt fit , looking for that birthmark , gabe continues .
it was brutal .
i dont think i slept for a week , honestly .
we were in the crappiest motel on the planet .
the air conditioning was broken or something , and it was like 100 degrees outside .
i was sweating buckets , staring at pictures until my eyes were crossing , but i kept going cause i knew grand was getting closer and closer to you .
and then one day i got to your name on the list .
damn him , i can actually see happy lilac streaks pulsing through gabes aura .
as for me , another shiver sweeps through my body , rattling my bones .
these daggers in my lungs feel so real .
your high school newspaper archives all of its issues online .
two years ago , march , in the sports section there was this picture of a girl winning a race at a track meet .
that wasnt me .
no , gabe smiles , but there were three girls cheering her on as she crossed the finish line .
all wearing tank tops .
the girl in the middle had a birthmark on her shoulder .
you could barely see it , but it was there .
i still have that picture .
from there i hacked your facebook page , and there you were .
right in front of me .
gabe laughs a small laugh .
hes still trying to find my eyes , spread his smile to me , but i cant lift up my head .
i knew right away .
you look like mom .
and it was soso amazing to see you there .
all these pictures of this person id been imaging .
theres this one , he laughs again .
purple blushes all around him .
where youre playing guitar hero , and youre , like , totally into it .
youre biting your lip , and you have this look in your eyes like nothing is going to stop you , not ever .
mom got that look too .
all the time .
there were all these postings from your friends and that guy ryan .
lots of weird literature stuff and inside jokes .
some stuff in latin , i think okay , i bark , because hes hurting me and doesnt know it tearing open the boxes ive packed so carefully , throwing my vulnerable , tender memories all over the floor .
you had a life .
you had friends .
it was , like you were normal ?
happy .
or at least not unhappy .
we went straight to connecticut from tennessee to figure out the situation .
tarren grabbed a cup you threw away and sent it off to lo .
he confirmed that you were you , our sister .
half sister .
half everything .
the day we found out was the day grand took you .
we were trying to figure out what to do , how to keep you safe , you know , without completely ruining your life .
gabes voice grows softer .
we should have seen him coming , but there were no unusual deaths , no angel activity .
he justjust stole you away .
if tarren hadnt insisted on sneaking a tracker into your purse , we never would have found you again .
occasionally his paranoia does pay off .
i open my mouth .
grand didnt know , my voice cracks .
the air is so hard to pull in .
huh ?
gabe says .
i need to breathe need to get to a window or a toilet .
a knock on the door , and tarrens energy jumping behind it .
gabes face is growing suspicious .
lines creasing along his mouth .
grand didnt know you were coming , i say quickly .
you saved my life .
we should have done more .
gabe stands up , but i beat him to the door .
you did enough .
i turn the knob and let tarren in .
chapter 36 tarrens face is flushed , and hes freshly shaven .
i can hardly catch his scent even when im only five feet away .
now i understand the pumice stone and the alcohol lotion .
he wears a snug black jacket and black pants .
gabe is still in his torn jeans and wrinkled shirt .
he hasnt showered or shaved .
without a word , we make our way out of the motel .
tarren looks every inch the professional spy .
i exude mentally handicapped charity case and gabe just comes off as homeless .
i learn on the drive over that this is exactly the point .
the boys munch on protein bars , and gabe sucks down two red bulls before we make it back to marymoor park .
rain patters against the windows of the suv , and i shiver .
the clouds are losing their glow , and in the encroaching dusk i see the sweep of flashlights threading through the woods .
shit , gabe mutters .
theyre still searching for her , tarren confirms .
weve got to get them out of the park .
theyre easy pickings for the angel .
tarren is silent a moment , thinking .
we cant , he decides .
theyre in danger .
we wont be able to find them all .
we could set a fire .
a little one .
the fire trucks come , shoo the people away .
first , its raining .
second , the volunteers would come back as soon as the fire was out .
third , the firemen would be just as likely targets .
but gabe begins .
we cant do anything about them , tarren says sternly .
what we can do is present a more tempting target .
the volunteers are in pairs and groups .
they have flashlights and whistles .
risky for an angel .
it will be looking for the most vulnerable prey .
the easiest kill .
the brothers look at each other , energies syncing again .
gabe sighs .
we wander past the fields , past the community garden , past the dog park and into the woods .
we stay away from the flashlights , from the others tromping around calling to sunshine baileys ghost .
the angel is everywhere , in each small noise , each gust of wind rattling the branches , each new smell that clamors for my attention .
a little ways into the woods , gabe curls up on a bench positioning a stained duffle bag under his head .
he checks his pistol then , still holding the semi automatic , tucks both hands into the sleeves of his khaki coat .
i watch in amazement as his energy lowers and flattens around his body almost as if he were sleeping .
tarren and i hunker down in the trees 100 yards away .
tarren lies on his stomach , eye fixed to the scope of his sniper rifle .
i drape myself across a wide branch above him and watch his energy slow and dampen also .
how do you do that ?
i whisper .
no talking .
he doesnt look up .
your energy , its going down .
you can see that ?
theres an edge to his voice .
i can feel it .
sometimes , i hedge .
angels can connect to the energy output of humans , tarren whispers .
they can sense emotions like fear or nervousness .
when we hunt we have to lock down on those things .
how ?
there are mental tricks .
breathing .
now quiet .
im too nervous to be quiet .
i dont like gabe out in the open all alone .
i keep imaging a black shadow swooping down and snatching him away .
the rain falls around us , tagging the leaves and dripping through my thin , cotton pants .
the water skews the world , disrupting the normal smells , blanketing the sounds of the forest .
my senses are off kilter , and i feel naked without them .
and its cold .
why dont i track the volunteers , i whisper to tarren .
split up , cover more ground , or wait for the angel where i found the piece of fabric .
it might come back there again .
no .
you dont trust me .
you dont think i can control myself , i accuse .
you cant take on an angel by yourself .
then give me a gun .
end of discussion maya .
i rest my chin on my gloved hands and fume .
the hunger hasnt let up , and it erodes away my composure .
i think of a massive nail file wearing away at my frontal cortex and then cant get the image out of my head for the next hour .
i feel helpless , melding with this branch , thinking about nail files , waiting for something to come down and try to kill my brother .
i know exactly what tarrens rifle sounds like , how cleanly it pierces through the aluminum soup cans the brothers have rigged all throughout their wooded backyard .
i wonder if the angel will tumble backwards , flipping end over end .
i wonder how much blood i should expect if there will be any terrible screeches of death , any stammering final monologs like in the movies .
the minutes and hours are stubborn , digging in their heels .
each second presses the cold and wet deeper into the center of my bones so that my limbs ache with it .
i press my teeth together to keep them from chattering .
the initial fear and jitters exhaust themselves , dulling into a waxy wariness .
i try to keep my eyes on gabes form , but they keep slipping away as my thoughts wander to my own discomfort , to these new secrets ive added to the pile .
the restrained memories twist against their chains , screaming terrible things beneath their gags .
beyond the hum of all these wretched thoughts , my ears pick up a sound a grunt of surprise somewhere far off to my right .
the rain has stopped , and the sound carries across the wide space of the forest .
my body tenses , my ears honing .
then it comes , a low strangled call , uh , uh , uh .
i recognize this guttural cry .
ryan made the same seizing sound as grand tore the life from his body .
maya , no !
i dont understand tarrens shout until i realize that my feet are planting into the muddy ground as i launch myself through the trees .
chapter 37 leaves slap against me like wet hands , and im charging through roots , twisting around trees without thinking .
i need to get to the sound , i need to save ryan .
only it isnt ryan .
i find the crumpled body of a man a half mile away from our stakeout .
he is all wrong in many ways the torqued upper body , the wide unfocused eyes , the mouth still caught in a last garbled choke but most of all because he is colorless .
there is no aura around him , no dance of emotion , no churning cloud of life .
my brain starts inconspicuously edging out of the room , and this is what panic feels like .
i kneel down next to the man .
i am too terrified to touch him , so my hand just lingers above his shoulder .
if only his eyes werent open .
dead , the word punches into my head .
dead , dead , dead .
i listen for a heartbeat , watch his chest for breath and find nothing .
then , because its me , things get a lot worse .
i hear the sound of footsteps approaching .
i assume this is tarren ready to pull me up by the scruff of my neck and drag me back to the car .
stupid , i think and finally , finally realize that an angel was just here , could still be here .
i stare at the shadowed figure emerging from the woods wondering what this angel will look like , if it will have long , dripping claws , and what it will do when it finds me .
the boy who steps out from the trees is not an angel or tarren .
for this reason alone , i fall wildly in love with him .
my eyes latch to the reddish hued energy circling around his body , and he is so amazingly , utterlyhuman .
i love his entrenched dark eyes , his tall , skinny body , all those tuffs of brown hair standing up on his head and even the weird goatee thing on his chin .
you here ?
the boy asks .
his flashlight sweeps across the ground .
i see the light coming , but i just stand there , dumb as a rock .
it hits the body and stops .
pastor reynolds ?
the boy chokes .
the beam of light jerks , hits my knee and then rushes up my body .
the boys aura unleashes bright canary yellows and whites , and in response , every muscle i have clenches hard .
through the beam of light i just stare at his aura and listen to the song .
your hands , he whispers .
i dont have to look down to know they are glowing .
i can feel the skin scrolling back , the feeding buds rising from their chambers and throwing out flares of heat .
its just that im hungry , and you i say and then stop .
just stop .
holy hells , bells , gazelles .
whatwhat are you ?
the boy whispers .
not a boy , really he must be my age .
i turn and run .
after a pause , i hear his steps come crashing after me .
this kid must be dumber than i am .
who chases the boogey man ?
i am aware that all i have to do is stop , turn around and peel these horrible , itchy gloves off my hands .
the boy would run right into my embrace .
there must be at least some small smidgeon of maya still controlling my brain , because i keep running , leaping into the trees and springing across the distance .
i feel tarrens energy coming at me , simmering an angry orange that hes obviously trying to hold in check .
i drop down , run toward him .
he stops when he sees me .
i hook my arm in his and swing him around roughly .
tarren trusts me enough not to automatically shoot me , which , i guess , is something .
i tug him behind me , keep running .
after a slight hesitation , he picks up the pace , and i let go of his arm .
behind us the boy screams , come back here !
i can almost feel tarrens mega scowl searing into my back .
a whistle hollers , then another .
soon , a whole chorus of shrill notes rise up out of the forest .
tarren and i run together , and i try to pretend this is just another run in the woods .
another glorious morning where the sun will soon peek its flat face up and over the horizon .
this is what brings me down enough to start thinking .
we collect gabe , who has packed up the sniper rifle , and then i weave us around the frantic humans and their bright , pounding energies .
we make it back to the car , and i can already hear the cry of police sirens pitching in the distance , growing louder .
tarren lets the leash on his energy slip just a little and his aura ratchets in bright oranges and reds that set my body humming .
he stares at me , and his hand hovers over the gun at his waist .
look , i whimper , i heard the guy scream , i couldnt just stand still , tarren growls , and its a feral , dangerous sound .
tarren , she didnt , gabe starts .
quiet , tarren cuts off his brother .
dont get in my way .
his eyes flash back on me , gray as flint and just as hard .
theres nothing in tarrens face , not the merest crevice to cling to .
i watch his fingers brush the barrel of his gun , ready to flip it from his holster and shoot .
i think hes actually going to kill me .
gabes energy is bright as a star .
i am shivering so hard that water droplets jump out of my hair .
the monster presses against the paper thin wall of my control , keeps pushing , pushing , pushing tarrens body relaxes , and his hand drops away from the gun .
get in the car , he tells me with the quiet menace of a rattlesnake .
gabe sighs such a long whoosh of air .
thank you jesus , he mutters , and the red slowly dissipates from his aura .
he goes around back , opens the trunk .
move !
tarren hollers at him .
i crawl into the back seat and slump against the opposite window .
my hands are still glowing , so i press them into my belly and pull my legs up tight to pin them in place .
gabe opens the back door im not leaning against and holds out a wool blanket .
even when i dont acknowledge the offering , even though the sirens are loud enough so that the boys must be able to hear them by now , gabe doesnt move .
his face is wrecked with heroic intent .
slowly , i lower my knees , unwind my arms , reach out and take the blanket from his hand .
chapter 38 on the ride back i expect tarren to charge at me fast and loud as a wailing freight train .
instead , his voice drops to a dangerous quiet , and all he says is , you jeopardized everything .
gabe has told me how diana could wither her children with a stare , how the softest words from her mouth often carried the deadliest stings .
tarren must be so much like her .
just lay off , gabe says , though theres been a long pause of silence .
i just pull the itchy blanket tighter around my frame and try not to look at anything .
back in our motel room sponsored by the color beige , i stand in the corner until tarren and gabe finish their review .
tarren flashes me a deep scowl hes really perfected the art of menace and then leaves for his room .
go ahead , i tell gabe as soon as the door closes .
and do what ?
he hefts his bag onto his bed and starts digging through .
im a fucking mess .
i deserve a monumental i told you so .
its not that , gabe says , almost to himself .
he pulls out shampoo , soap and a clean pair of boxers from the bag and tosses them onto the bed .
running after that angel , that was stupid .
dangerous .
maya he looks up at me , and the trickster light is gone from his eyes .
dont ever do that again .
this is the second time hes said that to me today .
why do you even care so much about me ?
my voice is high as a yelp , because this question has been gnawing on my conscience every night since this whole angel thing started .
i still havent figured out any type of answer that makes sense .
gabe stiffens , and a wave of red goes through his aura .
i realize that hes actually going to tell me the truth , and i suddenly dont want to hear it .
i didnt know my father .
to me he was always gone , gabe says and looks away .
i felt sad , but i was only missing the idea of something , not the real thing .
then mom got sick , and when she ... gabe forces the word out , died , it was , god it was awful .
gabe , stop .
he grips the sides of his bag , and the words rush on .
but then there was you .
it wasnt , like , a tradeoff or anything .
but i hadnt known before .
we lost mom , but now i had a sister .
it was something , you understand ?
something to fill the void .
and then tammy .
gabes voice loses its strength .
his aura alights in bright reds that slam a wrecking ball against my shaky control .
please stop , i whisper , and this seems to spur him on .
he looks up at me through the messy bangs of his wet hair , and those honey colored eyes are intent in his pale face .
tarren is different now gabes brows pinch together as he struggles to speak .
hes soso far away and i cant figure out how to find him and bring him back .
its been years , but he hasnt gotten better .
he wants to die .
he tries to , and if something happens to himi wont , i just cant .
maya !
gabes voice pitches out as a sob that cuts something small and fragile inside of me .
you cant do stupid shit like that , you cant .
his aura is a rush of rusted oranges , browns and reds .
this is how i learn what gabes fear looks like and how it etches deep ravines of pain in his face .
alright , i blubber back .
you have to take care of yourself .
let us keep you safe .
alright , gabe , alright !
thanks , he says hoarsely .
he gathers up his supplies and walks to the bathroom .
his knee pops , and its such a normal little thing that i almost laugh .
instead , i call out to him , what happened when we got back to the car ?
gabe stops but doesnt say anything .
the way tarren stared at me , like he was going to kill me .
he was , gabe says this so soft , i wonder if he meant to say it out loud .
he , uh , was checking to make sure gabe swallows .
after an angel feeds , its skin flushes , sometimes even glows for a little while .
he was checking to make sure i didnt kill anyone , i finish .
oh , okay .
i knew you didntbut he had to check , maya .
he had to .
gabe stands still for a while until he realizes im not going to say anything back .
we just leave that right there , and gabe goes into the bathroom , closes the door .
even though im wet as all hell , i collapse backward onto my bed and just lie there listening to the hiss of the shower .
when gabe comes out , hes in a pair of gray boxers and a ratty undershirt .
im almost 100 sure he doesnt actually own a set of pajamas .
im still lying on top of my covers , just staring out the dark window .
your turn , gabe says indicating the bathroom with his head .
too tired .
ill do it in the morning .
your life , gabe shrugs and apparently doesnt realize the irony of that statement or the wave of jumpy , angry emotions it sends through me .
things are still tense in the room .
i can feel it , see it in gabes energy .
the peak of my hunger hasnt really faded , and im honing in on gabes aura , aware that we are alone together in this room without tarrens warning eyes and itchy trigger finger .
did diana know about angels before you were born ?
i ask .
gabe drops gracelessly into his bed .
ha !
actually , yes .
when my dad killed robert thane , he got real scraped up .
mom confronted him .
she had this way of grilling you until you sang like a canary .
dad told her everything , about thane , about dr. cook , about the angels and his mission to kill them .
mom was so pissed that she went into labor right then and there .
i was born right in the middle of the worst argument they ever had .
my fingers find a hole in the comforter and immediately begin to unbraid the loose threads .
then why did she name you gabriel ?
aw man , gabe says .
i wait for him to continue .
he doesnt .
what ?
she had this kind of idea .
again i wait .
again he doesnt speak until i prod .
what idea ?
gabe rolls onto his side and pegs me with a stare .
okay , but you have to swear not to be all , you know , give me shit about it .
i put my hand over my heart and raise my other hand .
cross my heart , hope to die , stick a needle in my eye .
alright , so mom was pissed at my dad and overwhelmed and terrified out of her mind .
here she was with a newborn in her arms , and shed just learned that her geeky , scientist husbands been battling superhuman monsters .
the way she told it , she kicked my father and the ts , tammy and tarren , out of her hospital room .
she rocked me and cried , and i was just staring at her , calm and composed .
she kissed me , and i laughed , though i looked it up once and newborns dont laugh until , like , a couple months .
anyway , she swears i laughed , and she looked into my eyes and had this kind of epiphany .
gabe sighs , and his aura pulses a tangy orange that im beginning to associate with his embarrassment or distress .
mom believed in angels , real angels , the fluffy winged kind , and she wanted gabe pauses , thinking .
she wanted to remember what angels really were .
i was her reminder of a better world , i guess .
so she named me gabriel .
gabriel is supposed to be gods messenger , i say .
i find a new thread and pull it loose .
the hole in the comforter yawns open , large enough for me to slip my hand through .
yeah , he brings people hope and stuff wow .
gabe tucks his face into his pillow .
his voice is muffled .
i know .
kind of a lot to live up to .
now whos angelic ?
oh , lame .
gabe reaches out for the lamp on the table between our beds .
im calling it a night .
he clicks off the lamp , dousing the room in darkness .
i dont intend to fall asleep , but i dountil the hunger pulls me away from my restless dreams .
my mind is cloudy and confused as i slowly bob along the surface of consciousness .
the song plays in my head , pure notes of hunger .
it really is a fire , with flames that burn a different , deeper burn .
i sit up , fumbling with my gloves before i stop myself .
it takes me a second to remember why .
the skin on my palms is peeling back , the veiny orbs lifting up , throbbing .
its still night , and i hear gabe breathing the slow notes of sleep from his bed .
his energy is a noose around my mind , pulling me closer , tightening .
i step out of bed .
a part of me is fighting this , but her words are papery whispers .
go away maya , i think , but she insists , so i tiptoe to the rabbit cage instead .
my gloves are gone , and my thoughts are all short circuiting , fingers twitching , senses so keen that i can hear gabes steady heart beat from across the room can feel tarren jumping in and out of sleep just beyond the thin wall .
i pull open the cage .
i cant even tell the rabbits apart .
all i see is their bright energy hooping around their bodies in golden bands .
i grab one of the shapes and tear its life away , hiccupping with pleasure .
its not enough to slake the hunger .
not even close .
i turn to take the last rabbit , but the door hangs open , and the cage is empty .
a blur of energy streaks across the room and slips under gabes bed .
little fucker !
maya ?
gabes voice is heavy , skewed by the pillow .
everythings fine .
go back to sleep .
was i in a lake ?
its the rain .
youre dreaming .
k , thanks , gabe sighs .
he pulls the blanket up over his shoulders as if this could possibly hide his energy .
hide anything .
his breath is even again .
vulnerable .
i crawl to the farthest corner of the room and lean my forehead against the wall .
the memories lash against their bonds , the ones i cant think about .
grands fingers trailing down my back .
finding what they will find .
his words carved into my mind so my thick fingered , un enhanced memory wont drop them .
maya .
i knew they would find you .
after a while i pull my legs to my chest and rock slowly back and forth .
the motion is soothing and lulls me into a dreamless sleep .
chapter 39 i am awake and on my feet instantly .
i pull the door open before tarren even knocks .
whatever sleep he got wasnt much and didnt make any improvements on his demeanor .
he looks at me , and his face goes hard .
where are your gloves ?
they itched , i say lamely .
he spots the dead rabbit sprawled on the floor .
oh that i begin , but tarren shoves past me into the room .
gabe ?
tarren keeps his voice calm , but his energy spikes .
he strides to the bed where gabe is only a mop of wavy hair atop a tangle of covers .
when gabe doesnt respond , tarrens energy explodes out , white tipped at the edges .
gabe ?
he chokes and reaches out to touch his brother .
uh ?
gabe turns his head and blinks .
oh , hey .
what time is it ?
tarren snatches his hand back and turns toward me .
he doesnt say anything , but his eyes have those daggers in them again .
6 00 am , jesus , gabe groans and throws the blanket over his head .
snooze .
i call snooze .
maya , hit tarren on the head , and maybe hell come back in fifteen minutes .
the angel killed a preacher last night .
the police have officially opened up an investigation into his death , tarren says .
theyre looking to question an unknown female who was seen standing over the body .
he gives me a nice big scowl for my performance last night .
its good to know that no matter how small or how stupid i already feel , tarren is always willing to step in and pile it on just a little bit thicker .
a muffled fuck .
the blanket comes off , and gabe sits up .
he runs both hands through his tussled hair .
we should have tried to get everyone out of the park last night .
the police have sealed off the park , tarren says .
they are setting up their own search teams .
which means now theyre in danger .
stupid cops .
which means theyre going to scare the angel off , tarren corrects .
were running out of time .
yeah , i say .
tarren looks at me .
i give him my best full blown western , tumble weeds gusting between us squint .
damned pink pajamas .
put your gloves back on , tarren says softly before leaving the room .
when i get out of the shower , gabe is wolfing down an egg mcmuffin and staring at his computer screen .
protein .
the eggs , he mumbles through a mouthful of food .
you know , if you can buy a full meal for a dollar , its probably not really food , i tell him .
tastes like food , gabe swallows and takes a long swig of coffee .
thats exactly what the highly paid chemists want you to think .
alright ronald mcbuzzkill .
shut up .
you shut up im doing really serious work here .
youre on facebook !
no , you just switched the screen , but i saw it .
since when is your status in a relationship ?
i have a girlfriend .
gabe picks the melted cheese off the wrapper and brings it to his mouth .
look , im sure keira knightly appreciates your daily fan letters , but you can hardly call that a healthy relationship .
ha !
ive got four girlfriends actually .
and theyre real .
got screen names and everything .
we go on mind blowing dates all over the world .
i even got my own love island .
oh my god , youre such a nerd !
i roll my eyes .
no one is on second life anymore .
wildstarz2346 is .
we go on roller coasters together .
lizkup4u prefers the waterfall jacuzzi .
then there are the nymph twins .
oh , those two are naughty .
you can buy some crazy toys in second life .
genitalia too .
what about and here i make my voice all breathy and romantic , francesca ?
ah , francesca .
my heart of hearts will always belong to her .
gabe is smiling , trying to play it off as a joke , but his aura is so transparent , picking up speed , beating lavender humming bird wings that grow dark as plums or the edge of the sky just before the sun sets .
but we need to finish the mission first .
things arenttheyre not safe yet .
so , you know , a guys got to get a little nymph love every now and again .
i laugh , but it sounds forced .
i keep forgetting how alone the fox brothers are , how much the fight costs them .
gabe scrunches up the wrapper , tosses it toward the wastebasket , misses .
wind resistance , he says .
anyway , ive got something you can help me with .
i glance at gabes sheet , double checking the phone number out of habit , even though my angel brain automatically memorized the full list of numbers the first time my eyes scrolled through .
i hit the dial button on my prepaid cell , and the connection trills four times before going to voicemail .
man this is bob woman and kathy mcgee .
we hope you are having a blessed day .
man we cant come to the phone right now .
please leave a message and well get back to you right as soon as we can .
together may the lord be with you !
it takes me a second after the beep to gather my bearings .
uhhey there , my name is mercedes .
great message by the way .
super positive .
yeah , so im calling about the litter of puppies you advertised on craigslist last week .
i squint at gabes crowded writing , tabs , what , oh labs .
labs .
great dogs .
just love those little guys .
and i was wondering if you have any left .
im looking to adopt , you know give a puppy a good , uh , jesus filled home .
im great with dogs , by the way .
so , yeah , just give me a call back and let me know either way .
i leave my number and hang up .
this is stupid , i tell gabe .
hes typing into a password field , grimacing each time it rejects his inputs .
a second window is plastered with an unreadable block of code .
no , no , its very important , he says without looking up .
damn it , i need my lucky hat .
he stands up , stretches his arms up over his head .
its all cool to go commando out into the night with guns blazing , or dress up as a sheriff to break into a crime scene , but thats only a small part of the job .
this here , the grueling research , this is where the real breaks come .
tarren ?
hes not going to get anything at that park .
gabe kneels on the floor and rummages through his messy duffle bag .
no , were going to find something here .
this is montage stuff .
i want a montage .
my voice sounds whiny even to me .
ah !
gabe pulls the cap out of his bag and brushes it off .
no montages in real life .
just hard work and some really awesome hacking .
hey he reaches under his bed and pulls something into his arms .
a white splashed face peeks out from the nook of his elbow .
its nose twitches .
gabe laughs and scratches the rabbit behind its long , floppy ear .
looking at my brothers face , i realize that ive just lost my lunch .
little fucker .
gabe and i sit in the room all day searching for something that will lead us to the angels identity .
its tedious , mind numbing , incredibly frustrating .
if there was any mercy in the universe , i would have been granted my montage and wed be skimming right over this endless minutia on the hard hitting chords of some appropriate soundtrack addition .
tarren comes back long enough to drop off food and practice some more scowls .
gabe gets a burger , and i get another bag of fish .
pointless darts of energy .
almost not worth the effort of killing , except im hungry enough to start zapping ladybugs at this point .
weird dream last night , gabe says between bites as we lounge on our separate beds .
at first i dont know which one of us hes talking about , and then i do and this is worse , because he must have remembered his junkie roommate shivering over a dead animal carcassagain .
i was in a lake , and i couldnt swim even though i can in real life .
my arms and legs were really heavy .
it was storming were talking torrential rains , wicked lightening , humongous waves .
every time i tried to breathe , i kept getting water in my mouth .
you were probably trying to eat your pillow , i suggest as i drop another extinguished fish behind me onto the folded napkin .
and you were next to me in a little boat , gabe puts down his burger , reaching out your hand to pull me in , but you didnt have your gloves on and your hands were all like he pauses , and i assume his tact is finally catching up with his mouth .
i am mistaken .
like , glowy , like ahhhh .
he jazzes his hands as if this somehow pantomimes the split skin , the bulbs , the glow , the monstrosity .
you were saying gabriel , take my hand .
take my hand , which is weird because mom was the only one who ever called me gabriel .
i knew that if i took your hand you would ice me , so i was screaming at you , wheres tarren ?
go get tarren , and you pointed behind you .
tarren was standing on the shore watching us .
i screamed his name , even though i knew he couldnt hear me .
i begged you to go get him , but you just kept saying gabriel , take my hand .
i wouldnt and you got mad and started cussing me out .
gabe picks up his burger and resumes eating .
wild huh ?
another note about living a sequestered life it tends to foster under developed social discretion .
in other words , the inability to realize that if your dream happens to remind your roommate of her darkest , most soul crippling fear , maybe you should just keep your god damn mouth shut about it .
i dont really want to know , but in a small voice i ask , what happened ?
did i kill you ?
a fish blunders into my hand , and i pull it up out of the water .
course not .
francesca dove in and saved me .
turns out she was once a navy seal .
she pulled me to shore , and i pretended to be unconscious so she would give me mouth to mouth now youre lying , i can tell .
and i can .
his teases express themselves as little greenish whirls in his aura .
what really happened ?
the writer in me knows that dreams often unmask the unconscious mind .
despite gabes assurances , his easy smiles , the sheer power of his shrugs , some part of him recognizes the threat i pose , the way it could end between us a noise erupts behind me , and i almost upturn the bowl of fish .
i grab my phone with a dripping hand .
hello ?
i venture .
hello !
a chipper voice replies .
is this mercedes ?
yes , yes it is , i say .
oh , wonderful !
im kathy mcgee .
you called earlier .
she speaks in a singsong voice that i immediately associate with heart dotted is and no less than five winking emoticons per email .
of course , the , uh ... im so sorry , but we gave all the labrador puppies away last week .
such precious little things .
oh , right .
well , shucks , thats too bad .
i really love that brand..er , breed .
i hope they all found good homes .
oh , they sure did .
she seemed like such a wonderful woman .
one woman ?
did she take them all ?
i ask .
well , yes , she has quite a large farm and .
gabe snags the phone out of my hand .
i grasp for it back , but he pushes my arm away and turns around .
hello there , this is agent adama with wildlife protective services .
his voice is smooth and low .
oh no , no , youre not in trouble .
not at all .
but we have reason to believe a puppy mill may be operating in the area.oh yes , i knowterrible business.the things ive seen .
anyway , ive had my assistant looking for suspicious activity .
gabe turns around and grins at me .
i give him my wild west squint o death .
such as one person buying an entire litter of puppies .
classic sign of a puppy mill at work well , it may be nothing , but we have to check into it .
you understand ... good , good .
anything you can tell me .
anything .
gabe sits back down and starts typing into his computer , clucking his tongue and murmuring , good , good , no , thats definitely important .
youre doing good .
anything else ?
and finally , i will .
no harm will come to those puppies , not while agent adama is on the job .
and god bless you too .
gabe hangs up and tosses the phone back at me .
whatve you got ?
i ask .
could be nothing .
hispanic woman , drove an old corolla .
doesnt really sound like our usual mo .
theres an mo for angels ?
old , white , male and rich .
like any exclusive club , its an old boys network .
the original members were mostly industry magnates , and they were careful about who they let into the clubhouse .
thats changing now .
membership is starting to trickle down .
weve been to harlem .
an indian reservation in nevada .
man , if you ever want to see povertywait , wait , wait , i think ... gabe doesnt finish .
his fingers pound the keyboard .
got it , he murmurs to himself .
i tense in response to the flare in his energy .
gabe swings around in his chair , lifts the lounging rabbit off his bed and gives it a big kiss on the forehead .
i am a friggin genius !
chapter 40 see if you can keep up , gabe says .
the rabbit is sprawled on his shoulder , strangely passive in his care .
it chews on the ends of his hair , though tarren brought back a new bag of salad mix .
tarren stands near gabes bed , arms crossed , hair still wet .
hes changed out of the sheriffs uniform that fit him tight in the shoulders .
rain taps against the window trying to get in , and the thick banks of clouds are already diminishing the sunlight .
i keep my eyes away from the rabbit , away from the boys too .
im sitting on my bed , hands pressed firmly against the comforter .
so , we got a lead on a woman who picked up a whole litter of puppies last week , gabe tells his brother .
that was me , i add .
i mean , not the one who picked up the litter .
i found it .
found her .
hispanic female , 30 40 years old .
maria h something .
drives an old , red corolla .
shes average height , little overweight .
lets say 150 180 pounds .
so dmv , tarren says .
do you always have to do this ?
hey , i put in a lot of work here , gabe says defensively .
i demand some appreciation .
so yeah , dmv .
i expanded the search into neighboring counties , and that gave me a good amount of hits to work with .
next up was credit reporting agencies .
thats legal , i say .
totally not .
thats where i got a hit on the list .
gabe turns to me and explains , whenever we have a stationary angel , i use an algorithm to put together a list of likely suspects in the area based on the angel mo we talked about old , white , male and rich .
you cant just find all that information about people , i accuse .
gabe laughs at the audacity of this statement .
oh , i certainly can .
big brother is out to get you maya !
oooooohhhh .
hes everywhere , gabe intones in a spooky voice .
he knows you spend all your time on robert pattinson fan sites .
wow , you actually think youre funny .
thats kind of sad , i retort .
stop it .
tarren says , because fun is being had .
i swear he must have been a mall cop in all of his past lives .
gabe composes himself .
alright , so turns out that one of our marias works for a guy on my list .
shes an administrative assistant to howard krugal .
venture capitalist .
box seats .
total high flyer .
he would have the money and connections to hook up with the angel network .
and best of all , his mcmansion is three miles outside the park .
its compelling , tarren says .
ms. secretary bought a whole litter of dogs last week , three days before the homeless guy was iced .
said she had a farm .
unless by farm she meant a two bedroom one bath condo in the city , then her pants are totally on fire .
we need to move now .
tarrens voice is all business .
its almost sun down .
well lose him if he gets to the park .
weve got to take him at home .
got all his info .
address , house layout , everything , gabe says , and his voice is losing its humor .
he tugs his hair away from the rabbit and sets the creature down on his bed .
my heart is picking up , tuning to the rise in both their energy levels .
the shadows have been here the whole time , but now i notice how they cut chunks out of each of us taking off gabes hand , stealing tarrens leg , splicing me in half .
alrighty , i say stupidly as i stand up from my bed .
youre not going , tarren says to me almost as an afterthought .
what ?
no !
ill do better this time , i swear .
this isnt sitting in the trees with a sniper rifle , tarren says .
were storming the house .
sometimes bullets fly .
youd get in the way .
then give me a gun .
you dont even know how to use a gun , tarrens voice is growing quiet , edgier .
of course i do .
point and pull the trigger .
gabe clears his throat .
what ?
i snap at him .
the safety .
you have to take the safety off first .
yeah i pause a beat too long , clearly that goes without saying .
tarren is already walking toward the door .
twenty minutes gabe .
wait !
my voice is shrill enough to check his steps .
youve been doing this your way forever .
i get that , but im here now , and this is my fight too .
after everything ive been through my voice catches .
for once in my life im not acting .
this is pure turmoil burning my cheeks , crowding inside my throat .
i need to learn how to fight .
i need maya , gabes voice is soft , please , dont do this .
were trying to protect you .
because youre so fucking good at that !
i cry .
tarren bristles , and hes as good at bristling as he is at growling .
youre untrained , which makes you a danger to us and to yourself , and youve already proven that youre over emotional .
we cant be in there babysitting you while were trying to kill this thing .
i turn to gabe even though i know hes even more entrenched than his brother .
gabe , come on .
please .
my voice is dust .
i have to be a part of this .
gabe shakes his head .
you dont want to do this .
killing people .
seeing the things we have to see .
this isnt a good life .
im not asking for a good life .
im asking for purpose .
i look between them , searching for a breach in their faces .
there are none .
fine .
i lie down on the bed and tuck my hands beneath the pillow .
go .
twenty minutes , tarren says and walks out of the room .
in fifteen minutes a gabe lookalike emerges from the bathroom , his skin raw and patchy from the pumice .
instead of torn jeans and an over washed t shirt , hes wearing a trim black jacket , black pants , black boots and black gloves .
no lucky hat .
whoever he is , he hasnt learned my brothers smiles or the way his energy is supposed to take even strokes around his thin frame .
still mad ?
he asks .
i lay my head back down on the pillow .
youre doing this for my own good .
i understand that .
we are maya .
gabe , i want to learn how to fight .
i want to kill grand more than anything in the world .
bizzaro gabe sits on his bed and pulls the rabbit onto his lap .
he takes a while before answering , another thing the real gabe wouldnt do .
i know it hurts a pause .
maya , i know .
would you believe me if i said hate isnt worth the heartache ?
i look up at the tiled ceiling trying to find something meaningful in the geometric patterns .
whatever im searching for , i come up empty .
grand ruined my life .
ive lost everything .
all i can think of is .
ryan in a coffin .
eyelashes turning to dust .
worms wriggling through his eye sockets .
revenge .
bizzaro gabe winces .
again , he takes his time in answering .
if you let the hate consume you , then you really will lose everything .
dont let that happen .
please , maya .
thats clich .
im in no mood for soft landings .
we cant all laugh our hurts away , or pretend theres a happy ending coming just because we deserve it .
did you know you can house train rabbits ?
i turn away from the tiles to stare at the person who is gabe again .
i looked it up , he says .
so ?
so , i need you to do me a favor .
great , im in a favor granting mood .
swear you wont kill him .
who ?
i sit up .
sir hopsalot .
gabe strokes the rabbits long ears .
it turns its face up into his hand .
im gon na keep him .
that means hes family now .
okay , gabe .
i swear on my beloved floppy hat .
im serious .
im pissed at him right now .
beyond pissed .
blood boiling , steam shooting out of my ears pissed , but i cant say no to gabe .
not with his sad smiles and mischief eyes .
not when his energy calms every time he picks up the damn thing .
sir hopsalot ?
i ask .
awesome , right ?
gabe looks down at the rabbit and smiles .
he loves it .
sir hopsalot , i say formally , i hereby solemnly swear that no harm shall come to you by my hand .
i humbly apologize for my previous attempts to kill you .
let us be friends hereafter .
ha !
hear that ?
gabe picks up the rabbit between his hands .
i think she likes you .
and because hes gabe , the matter is closed .
if i could be grateful for silver linings it would be that i was given such a good brother who can not read minds , because when im looking at his tousled , damp hair , his too vulnerable for his own good eyes , what i mean is that im seeing those things in spite of the energy that pulses around him .
blue as blue , true as true .
the song is always here , and it always comes first .
are you two done ?
tarren is standing in the room , suited up , his face affixed with an expression of heroic stoicism .
he looks like someone whose daring exploits are accompanied by theme music , or at least someone who has daring exploits .
gabe lets sir hopsalot down on the bed .
pee in the corner if you have to , he whispers to the rabbit .
then he shoulders his backpack , and his energy is changing again , turning in tight circles .
be careful , i say to them .
well , mostly to gabe .
as soon as they shut the door , i close my eyes and slowly count down from 10 .
the sounds crowd in .
10 rain turning angry against the windows 9 rabbits heart tapping inside its ribs 8 car pulling into the parking lot , breaks wincing 7 television audience erupting in laughter from the next room 6 pipes rattling as water flows through them 5 girl talking on the phone in the room above , laughing a loud honking laugh 4 steps along the corridor outside 3 old man humming a song in the room to the right , his voice raspy as wind blowing across dead leaves .
2 my own breath running the circuit of my lungs 1 the song , haunting in the background .
louder than everything else .
gabe was smart enough to power down his computer before jumping in the shower , but he doesnt realize how easily i can follow his keystrokes even from across the room .
his password is cdttgmf .
gabe really shouldnt have saved all of krugals info in a folder on his desktop .
a girl could get curious .
i turn the water cold in the shower .
it helps with the pain of scrubbing off my skin for the second night in a row .
then i suit up in my angel killing uniform the one with the stretch pants and heart holding teddy bear .
i try to be all serious and professional while doing this .
i dont succeed .
it doesnt matter im getting used to looking stupid .
chapter 41 krugals house isnt far away , and i like running it helps me not to think .
instead , i feint in and out of the shaggy pine trees lining the road and feel the cool rain sliding down my back .
whatever grand goodbyes the sun might want to give on the horizon are censored by the clouds .
a dull gleam beneath a street light hails my eye , and i randomly decide to pocket the half used tube of lipstick .
i think i already know what im going to do with it .
i find tarrens suv parked a block outside krugals gated community .
for no good reason except that im starting to go giddy with fear and the certainty of my own stupidity , i pull out the ruby lipstick and draw sideways ms on the back window to make sloppy wings .
i am zorro .
tarren is right about me getting in the way .
being untrained .
ill probably bumble in and get us all killed .
i know this , and im going anyway .
i have a reason somewhere in my head something about being part of the team , using my curse for good , seeing justice done .
ex malo bonum .
the repentant monster .
i draw a halo over the wings .
at the gate , the guardhouse is empty .
a camera perched on the fence is turned away , and its red light is dark .
i hear a slow and steady heartbeat coming from the thick hedges surrounding the gate .
gabe and tarren have found tranq guns to be of substantial value on their missions .
i launch myself over the gate , arcing to avoid the sharp points at the top .
the wind picks up , gusting rain into my mouth and eyes .
strands of hair stick to my face , and i tuck them back behind my ears .
i run down the street , just your average everyday girl out for an evening jog in her teddy bear pjs .
headlights sweep behind me , and i drop low , suddenly very interested in retying my shoes .
when the light crosses over me and moves down the street , i am back up , running again head down , eyes puckered to resist the rain past stately , sprawling houses with glittering chandeliers in the window .
and there it is the home of harold krugal .
its large , but not ostentatious .
no fountain out front .
a mere handful of latticed windows .
the back door is unlocked , and the security alarm is dead .
i close the door behind me and take a deep breath of the holy shit what am i doing ?
variety .
beads of energy roam around the house , and i recognize the unique signature of each fox brother .
i creep through the rooms and find an older woman laid out on a couch , tranqed and probably dreaming the trippiest dreams of her life .
a vacuum stands in the middle of the floor , looking lonely .
i step around the vacuum , crouching low , suddenly forgetful of why im here .
the hunger whispers in my mind , separating the chords of reason away from my hot , growing appetite .
not so repentant after all .
the thin film of light around my hands is evident in the darkness .
the bulbs are pressing against the fabric of my gloves as i look at the woman , watch her confused aura shiver .
i might even be drooling .
and then i turn away , because little maya is clamoring in my mind , screaming something stupid like youre in control .
i keep moving through the house , honing in on the boys .
i hear the faint creaks of their footsteps above and something else .
a soft click like a latch unhooking .
i make it to the staircase , and tarren and gabe are just above me .
something isnt right .
theres another clear bead of energy .
i hear their voices whispering .
master bedroom is clear , gabe says .
this is his office .
hes got to be in here .
the rest are guest rooms .
alright .
we go in , we take him out .
the knob turns .
im running up the stairs , skipping four at a time .
gabe pushes open the door , and tarren steps through , gun raised .
dont !
i cry .
im past gabe before he can swing his weapon around .
i plow into tarren , and his gun goes off , softened to a hiss by the attached silencer .
i hear a sharp crack as the bullet lodges in the wood paneling of the desk in front of us .
tarren and i are tangled on the ground , and he flips over , pinning my arms against the floor .
gabe is behind him , gun trained on meagain .
hes looking at the teddy bear on my chest .
maya , he says , confused .
stay on krugal , tarren growls to his brother , really growls .
he lets go of my wrists and i sit up .
his eyes are turning gray as if i couldnt tell from his sparking energy how pissed he is .
i turn around and look at the figure sitting behind the desk .
krugal hasnt moved , and when our eyes meet i see calm resignation .
you cant kill him .
i turn back to tarren .
hes human .
chapter 42 it is a dark and stormy night .
an old man tightens his grip on the arm rests of his great wing backed chair .
his eyes , dark and hostile , are sunken into bruised pouches of skin .
he is prepared to face the two shadowed figures moving toward him , brandishing their pistols .
a young woman stands in the back of the room .
there is something strange about her , something wild and hungry .
this is when the lightning should sear across the night sky like a jagged wound throwing the old mans eyes , the guns , the girl into relief before releasing them back into the shadows as a long peal of thunder swells overhead .
there is a monster in this room , but the heroes are moving the wrong way .
sad heroes .
mean heroes .
heroes who are too sarcastic for their own good .
my mind is going crazy again like every other time i need to concentrate and stay calm .
harold krugal sits ramrod straight in his chair .
his wispy silver hair is combed back from a high forehead and heavy brow .
there is something wrong with his aura .
a bookshelf behind him holds different sized bottles , each protecting an intricately built model ship the kind i imagine brought conquistadors over to this side of the world .
a bottle lies on his desk encapsulating a half constructed model .
gabe keeps his gun leveled at the mans head , while tarren steps up to the desk and says , youre harold krugal .
i am .
what , you need the safe combination ?
cant crack it yourselves like proper thieves ?
were not here for your money .
i see .
he glances at me .
slumber party then ?
this isnt a joke .
tarren doesnt need the scar to look menacing .
hes somehow composed himself entirely of jagged metal and rock steel voice , flint eyes , granite face , iron jaw .
that , i am sure of .
krugal tents his hands and waits .
you dont seem surprised to see us , gabe says .
i crush dreams for a living .
ive faced my share of threats before .
who is it ?
tarren asks .
theres radiation all over the house .
whos been infected ?
krugal tilts his head and smiles as if amused by a private joke .
people are sheep , he says .
they dont want to excel .
they want to watch football and drink beer .
they want to throw back diet pills instead of running .
people are getting so fat theyve had to expand airplane seats .
incredible isnt it ?
were choking on our own excess , begging for more .
who is it ?
krugal takes the bottle between his hands , gives it a small push .
its still a jungle .
we each must decide for ourselves whether we are sheep the bottle spins lazy between his fingertips , or wolves .
and so you wanted to give your own a little leg up on the food chain ?
tarren keeps his scowl firmly fixed in place .
people are dying , gabe speaks up , innocent people .
yes , and that is unfortunate .
i had hoped that the animals would suffice , but it seems they are not enough .
then again , people die every day .
theyre starving in africa .
suffocating in china .
youre not saving them .
theres no difference .
human life is a commodity like everything else .
humans are not commodities , gabes voice is rising .
no ?
krugal touches the glass bottle to pause its motion .
then why do we send our soldiers off to war with paychecks in their pockets ?
im not asking again , tarren says .
a crazy laugh itches in my throat .
how could any of this possibly be real ?
even the shadows are just right , cutting across krugals face , pooling in the deep lines of his sagging skin .
youre going to tell us who and where .
tarren pulls a short blade from his belt .
now , or ill start cutting .
fingers first .
it wont work .
this is me , still lingering behind the two boys .
ive got a part to play , so i hush my voice , turn it hollow and cold .
hes not afraid , because hes already dying .
ive been watching the weak flicker of krugals energy .
it lays close to his body , churning slow like sludge and hued a murky brown almost to the core .
thats why he didnt turn himself .
the tumor is inoperable , krugal confirms .
i wont really be needing my fingers much longer anyway .
youre welcome to them .
he spreads his hands on the desk .
his rings click against the polished surface reminding me of another click i heard a short while ago .
then i understand .
the angel was here , i say , and the jump in krugals energy confirms it .
it went out the window .
i heard the noise right before you stormed the office .
hes been stalling .
you keep strange company .
krugal is looking at my gloves .
there are many clever responses available , but its me , and im not , so i dont .
instead , i turn and make my way down the hall , touching each door until i find the one with the smell i recognize from the small shred of fleece .
the lights wake at my touch and throw me into a world of confusion .
zac effron is hanging out above the bed .
the jonas brothers rock on the ceiling .
random visuals fall into my swinging gaze white comforter with small roses dotting the trim , green and silver pompoms hanging off the bed post , computer desk with books and stuffed animals crammed into the cubbies , clips and hair bands on the dresser , brush filled with long , copper hair , quotes scrawled on the closet door .
the one in the center says an eye for an eye makes the whole world blind ghandi i suppose this is ironic .
little wooden bubbles hang on the wall , each holding a picture .
in the first , three cheerleaders hide behind their pompoms , eyes squinted in laughter .
she must be the frizzy redhead in the middle , freckled and pale and no more than fourteen .
here she is again , younger , throwing a teddy bear at the camera , then sitting on a bench with krugal and another woman , also redheaded .
in one more picture shes clutching the womans wide waist as they sit on a jet ski together .
theres a door back here , tarren says behind me .
a deck , the carpet is wet .
its her .
shes the angel , i say .
tarren peers over my shoulder at the pictures .
you sure ?
ive never seen one that young .
children cant survive the infection process .
im sure .
we look at each other , and for the first time im glad for tarrens tight , repressed energy field .
as i try to regain my bearings , try not to totally freak , i hold on to his hardened features the squared shoulders , the locked jaw , those eyes , more blue than gray now , keeping their chill .
stay focused , he tells me .
im fine , i say and then say it again , louder .
im fine .
good .
we return to the office .
gabe still has his gun trained on krugal .
granddaughter , tarren says .
the reaction of krugals energy confirms his guess .
oh , you sick fuck , gabe says .
who else ?
from tarren .
krugal leans back , suddenly small within the wide curve of his chair .
my son is a disappointment .
always was .
i sent him and his third wife to a beach in the caribbean with a hundred grand in his pocket .
hell drink it up in a month .
but my granddaughter is different .
amber is sharp .
not just book smart , but cunning , clever .
she can read people , twist them to get what she wants .
competitive .
passionate .
she is worthy of the chance to excel .
so i gave it to her .
krugals eyes linger on the half finished ship inside the bottle .
it is love that propels us to do anything for our children .
and perhaps our own need to leave something important behind .
he glances at gabes gun and smiles .
amber knew to run if anything happened .
shes gone .
you stay with him , tarren tells his brother .
make sure hes telling the truth .
find out who infected the girl .
names .
numbers .
anything relevant .
you want me to torture an old dude with cancer ?
gabe hisses , keeping his eyes and weapon on krugal .
yes .
and kill him when youre done .
hes human .
hes on their side .
if he lives , hell warn his contacts .
tarren clutches gabes shoulder , and they share a quick look .
this is the job .
use the tub .
wipe down everything when youre done .
gabe gives a small nod and then fixes his gaze on krugal .
take maya with you .
she shouldnt be here .
tarren says come on .
i follow him to the door and stop .
did you give her a choice ?
i ask krugal .
he looks back at me , hands clasping the arm rests of his chair so tight i can see the bones of his knuckles through the thin parchment of his skin .
i asked her if she wanted to be better than all her classmates .
nothing snaps inside of me .
no breakage .
no boiling .
it just comes , the anger .
its there , filling me all the way up .
i walk with purpose into ambers room and gaze at the picture of the cheerleaders giggling behind their pompoms .
the anger grows bigger and bigger inside of me .
tarren steps into the room behind me .
he opens his mouth , no doubt to issue a rebuke about me wasting time .
shes at the park , i tell him .
she knows were coming .
she wouldnt go back there , he counters .
were wasting time .
i stare at the girl in the middle , counting her freckles like i sometimes count the stars .
green eyes , pointed nose .
poor little angel girl .
amber .
shes afraid and confused .
the park is where she goes to think .
she feels safe there .
i look at tarren , and because he cant possibly understand , i make it easy for him .
you got any better ideas ?
no , he admits .
the car is down the block .
itll be faster to cut through the houses on foot .
maya , you cant come with me .
i know .
i walk out to the balcony let the misting rain cool my skin .
you wont be able to keep up .
i leap over the railing .
my feet crush divots into the soggy ground .
i run , kicking up muddy water , letting my legs propel me to their full speed .
wings would be nice , but there are other ways to fly .
chapter 43 the rain is calming down when the houses give way to the wide open fields of marymoor park .
everything seems drowned , hunched over to wait out the night .
ryan always accused me of being overdramatic .
flashlights cut through the branches , diluted with distance .
i hear the soft sucking of boots pulling away from mud .
the police are still searching through the night for sunshine bailey , unaware that her killer is a little redheaded cheerleader who could snap a grown mans neck with her bare hands .
i look up into the trees , earning a fresh baptism .
i know where she is .
i climb , hands digging into the tree trunk , pine needles combing into my hair .
the branches tremble and shed pearl curtains of water when i step upon them .
i am soaked and shivering , sucking on my torn fingertips as i jump from branch to branch .
after a few slips , i kick off my shoes to gain better traction .
my new memory serves me well .
im condemned to remember every laceration on tarrens body in precise detail and the glassy eyes of every animal ive murdered , but it doesnt take me long to retrace my steps and find amber .
i see her silhouetted against the sky a dark shadow of a girl sitting on a preposterously high branch .
its the same towering spruce tree where i found the swatch of flannel , and now i know what it came from .
shes wearing the same blue flannel pajama pants along with an old strawberry shortcake t shirt soaked against her body .
the girl watches me as i climb .
the wind has decided to rest its voice .
the rain is a faint mist .
this is peace by exhaustion .
hey , i call .
leave me alone .
her red hair is unbound and plastered around her head .
but i just climbed up this huge tree .
this is you trying to be my friend .
no , i pause , thinking .
i just want the record to show i climbed this huge tree , and it was hard .
not that hard , the girl says softly .
not for me .
i manage to balance on two thin branches a little below her .
amber ?
are you going to kill me ?
her voice is solemn but beneath it i catch a hiccup of fear .
i look up at her .
i dont know .
youre not actually supposed to say that .
youre supposed to say no , of course not .
i just want to talk .
i do want to talk .
ambers face is the false calm of exhaustion , the kind when youve wrenched your heart so hard you cant feel anything anymore .
ryan with worms crawling out of his eyes .
maybe i deserve to die .
her pale feet kick back and forth .
ive killed people .
i know .
i killed amanda .
i told her not to come over .
ever again .
that i was moving to tahiti to live in the wild .
amanda came over anyway .
shed made a card .
oh , and thats all i say , because so often when the moment demands something brave or comforting or meaningful , the good words dissolve like ghosts from my mind , and what im left with are crumbs like oh .
and grandpa says im special now .
were going to move , but ill kill people there too .
ill just keep killing .
you can control it .
no , i tried .
her hands fold into tight fists .
glowing fists .
i know what youre going through .
the girl gives me an appraising look .
no you dont .
youre muddled .
muddled ?
amber slides backward , so that shes hanging upside down , knees bent around the branch .
her face is close to mine , and i feel the energy emanating from her .
no , not from her within her .
the light pulses softly beneath her skin , someone elses energy .
shes fed recently .
i can see your energy , but its gray , and theres not much of it .
gray like smoke , she says .
i dont have an aura .
yes you do .
theres still some human left in you .
she swings back and forth , thick clumps of hair coming loose from her back , hanging like tentacles .
youre not as strong as me .
i can tell .
and youre hungry .
really hungry .
shes right .
even as were talking , even as im trying to keep my balance on the branches beneath my feet , the song of hunger is tapping off each rib , echoing through every blood vessel .
grandpa says i need to accept this new reality .
that im an angel , and angels are meant to be better than humans .
thats not true .
my voice sounds weak , unconvincing .
were stronger and smarter .
ive memorized most of my history textbook .
ask me anything about the civil war .
you might be surprised to know that the greatest killer of all was disease .
dysentery was rampant .
amber , i think i can help you .
and thats not all the girl lifts her legs and allows herself to fall .
her body is in motion .
with a sharp , graceful twist the type of grace that usually requires a harness and ropes or cg effects to accomplish shes suddenly standing in front of me , balancing on my branches as they bend beneath our combined weight .
i know somewhere , somehow this is funny .
my teddy bear and her strawberry shortcake grin at each other , hiding murder beneath wet fabric and cold skin .
two terrified hearts drum against each other .
she is taller than me , thicker and more muscled from her transformation , glowing with the vitality of a fresh kill .
theres also this .
amber extends her hand , and a phantom force pushes me off my perch .
i tumble backwards , enfolded in night and shrill wind for a horrifying second before crashing into a branch below .
as i slip off , i wrap my arms around it and twist back on .
the air isnt getting into my lungs fast enough , and pain crashes cymbals up and down my arm .
im getting stronger .
amber looks down at me , tentacle hair framing her face .
at first i could only move little things .
flip open a book .
toss a tennis ball across the room .
but each time i feed i can throw a little harder .
pick up heavier things .
i scramble up as she leaps off her branches and lands on the edge of mine .
i dont think you can do that , she says .
her face is too stoic for a child .
too cold .
the killing gets easier too .
amber takes a step forward .
phantom hands push me back a step toward the trunk .
im not evil , at least not yet .
i feel bad about the people ive killed .
there was a cop tonight .
he probably had a family .
a wife .
children .
it tears me up inside .
i think about amanda all day .
about her parents .
i come up here to cry .
i cant be evil if i still cry , right ?
her voice warbles and pain echoes across her pale face .
for a moment she stares at me .
beseeching .
lost like i have been lost ever since the day grand stood in my path .
amber takes another step forward .
i hold against her power , but my feet are slipping against the wet bark .
the thing is , her voice is hardly above a whisper , maybe grandpa is right about the new elite .
maybe this is the way things are meant to be .
a new and better race .
wolves and sheep .
i dont know about that .
the only thing i do know about is the hunger .
i have to feed , so thats what i do .
amber closes the gap between us .
i dont want to die , so im going to have to kill you instead .
she leaps toward me , but i tear myself out of her power and jump to the next tree .
pine needles grab savagely at my hair as i pull myself up on a steady branch .
even as im scrambling for my balance , the branch trembles , and amber is standing in front of me again .
she is a checkered ghost hidden where the shadows drape across her body and shining as the newly revealed moon touches her through the branches .
before i can stand , her fingers wrap around my throat .
she slams me down on the branch , and the night pulses strange colors in my eyes .
im so sorry , she whispers into my ear .
a tear trembles on her lower eyelid then makes the jump to her cheek .
youre the first one ive gotten to apologize to .
chapter 44 i kick hard , connecting to ambers ribs .
she hisses with pain and tightens her hold .
im grappling with her wrist , trying to loosen her hand , but shes stronger than me , much stronger .
thoughts are backing up in my mind , crashing into each other as the knots of panic tie off reason .
i know im dying , and for some strange reason i only want to laugh .
her nails pierce my skin .
im terrified and giggly .
i get a knee into her stomach , and the hands loosen .
i try to snatch a breath .
amber pulls me up and slams me down against the limb again .
this time the night blinks out .
the world is quiet , the hunger gonefor a moment , and then im back .
confused .
twitching .
almost out of air .
a little girls face peers over mine , long tentacles reaching for me .
why is she in pajamas ?
my hands drop away from her wrist .
i should try to kick again , but my legs are too heavy .
i cant seem to understand whats happening or really care anymore .
the terror is loosening but whatever thoughts were backing up are gone .
there is only a darkness that might not be the night sky .
i cant find the stars .
a hiss and the rain starts again .
not rain .
the fingers on my neck relax .
amber is falling toward me , rolling off the branch .
then shes gone , and im gasping for breath , tasting metal in my mouth .
i hear her body smack against a branch and then a final thump as it hits the soft ground below .
the stars are back in the sky .
maybe they never left .
head throbbing .
thoughts percolating but unfinished .
blood ?
dont fall .
a voice calls below .
maya ?
i carefully twist over to my stomach and squint past the powerful flashlight beam .
tarren is peering up at me , the gun at his side .
the pain drums through my skull , big , powerful timpani beats .
small clips of time keep slipping away .
arms shaking , so weak , as i lower myself from the branches .
gone .
on the ground , somehow , kneeling against the tree .
tarrens eyes in mine .
is it raining again ?
i murmur , because we need something to talk about , or this might be awkward .
i have a strange croaking voice that i dont recognize .
my neck feels pulpy and bruised like rotted fruit .
gone .
tarren on his knees in front of me , saying something .
that scar and the others concealed , but i can still see them .
secrets hidden in the scars or because of the scars .
huh ?
i asked if youre bleeding .
tarrens voice is soft .
something strange in his face .
i think its hers .
are those my shoes ?
a pair of muddy sneakers are tied together at the laces and slung over his shoulder .
why did you steal my shoes ?
the song .
hes too close , and theres this expression on his face .
gone .
come on maya , your head .
did you hit your head ?
his voice going deeper like the creases across his forehead .
of course not .
i was very good about my head .
the tree did though .
nothing from tarren .
doesnt he think this is funny ?
wont he ever smile ?
tarren reaches out , hesitates , then touches my head lightly , running his fingers over the surface of my scalp until i hiss in pain .
ah , he says .
gone .
fingers in my hair , feather touches , but it still hurts .
i feel the contusion , but theres no blood , tarren says .
thats good .
and suddenly im so afraid , because i cant be losing time .
not when tarren is this close to me with his energy and its colors and the song making me so crazy that my thoughts are scattered like puzzle pieces broken like glass shards splattered like raindrops scrambled like eggs spotty like a dalmatian far , far away like the stars hidden behind the clouds .
not when im fighting each and every second with all the reserve ive got left .
tarren , please , i cry out , too loud .
i twist my head away from his hands and scramble backwards into the solid tree at my back .
tarren flinches and drops his hands .
oh , of course , he says , and his face is changing .
the creases come out , and his mouth sets .
whatever was there before , the thing that i would have sworn was concern if it hadnt been perched upon that particular face , is gone .
my thoughts are coming back , stitched crooked but good enough .
i instinctively press my palms into the ground , groaning as mud seeps between my fingers .
amber is sprawled a couple feet away .
her arm is twisted behind her , and she looks like a broken doll some careless child dropped and forgot to put away .
you killed her , i say , turning back to tarren .
yes .
she clearly could not control her hunger .
i take note of this slight shift .
tarren could have said because she was an angel .
maybe its all the same to him .
maybe not .
his eyes are all dark and hooded now , and hes being more careful with his energy .
ive tipped him off too much about what i can see .
i look at the girl , who was still a girl even when she wasnt .
monster and victim .
what now ?
i bury her .
oh .
okay .
where ?
dont worry about that .
youre going back to the motel .
if i were brave , i would say no , you shouldnt do it alone .
i would accompany tarren into the night .
i would help him wrap up the broken , bloody body in tarp .
we would wrestle the wet ground out of the way with our shovels and lower the child into a shallow ditch .
if i were brave , i would say something good and meaningful to amber before we pushed the sloppy mud upon her .
maybe i could forgive her , or at least tell her that i really do understand about the hunger and the things it made her do .
these same lures dance in my head , so close to reality that a single slip will propel them from my mind into a living nightmare .
but i am not brave .
i am tired and wet and numb .
i feel like a little girl myself as i sit in the car waiting for tarren to emerge from the woods carrying his tarp wrapped burden .
when he does , i notice the slightest dip in the vehicle as he lays her body down in the trunk .
tears slip down my face as we head back .
tarren is silent about this and the lipstick , which is no longer on the back window , and about everything else i have done wrong tonight .
i lean against the doorframe , opening and closing my eyes , trying to figure out which one is less painful for my throbbing head .
i try to swallow then stop trying .
instead , i wonder about the strange expression i caught on tarrens face .
about why he got so close to me without keeping a hand on his gun .
gone .
we are at the motel .
the car idles .
tarren waits for me to get out .
i turn my head and stare at my brother .
tired and strong .
smart , bristling , cut to shreds .
handsome and hidden .
so angry .
afraid of living most of all .
i decide its time to throw a battering ram at the wall between us , see if i can wend some cracks through the thick mortar .
you remembered me , i say .
you were unarmed .
i couldnt let when i was a baby .
you remembered .
tarren draws back a little , and i can see his mind shifting quickly , recovering , re evaluating , growing cautious .
a little .
it was a long time ago .
and the birthmark .
thats how gabe found me .
you remembered my birthmark .
another pause as tarren studies my expression .
he turns off the engine .
he waits .
when grand took me , he , he , i pull in a shaky breath , because here it comes the imprisoned memories are un gagged and released from their chains he knew about the birthmark .
he wasnt sure it was me until he saw it .
how did he know about that tarren ?
my voice cracks , mind cracks , memories rampaging , crushing boxes .
how could he know ?
tarrens eyes are as dark a blue as they ever get , and hes clamping down on his energy as if this doesnt tell me everything .
after grand captured you , tortured you , why would he just let you go ?
tarren doesnt say anything , so i answer my own question .
he wouldnt .
you made a deal for your freedom .
you had something valuable to trade .
say something !
yes .
yes ?
tarren breaks our gaze .
the granite crumbles from his face , leaving something more vulnerable that he hides by looking off into the half empty parking lot .
yes , i told grand about you .
about the birthmark .
i wait for more , the spill of confession , the breakdown , the stubborn justifications .
all i get is his face in profile , tiny flicks of energy escaping his grip .
wont you even make an excuse ?
i whisper .
no .
but he was torturing you .
cutting you up .
defend what you did !
no maya , i wont .
you should hate me .
i slump against the window , balling my hands into fists and tucking them between my legs .
how can he keep doing this to me ?
i pull in a deep breath and then magically , wonderfully , finally , i know exactly what to say .
sometimes i do , but im beginning to realize that i can never hate you more than you hate yourself .
tarren nods , accepting the blow .
and tammy ?
i ask .
how could you bargain for your own life and not hers ?
what to make of tarrens face , the way it looks right now , like hes withstanding exquisite torture but inviting it too .
how to describe what his repressed aura is doing seething with orange flames , neon yellows and bloody reds a thousand fine filaments glowing with his shame , his anger , with so many other emotions i can not identify .
yet , he is still holding himself back i am only seeing vapors of the full heartbreak inside of him .
i couldnt save tammy , tarren whispers .
how to describe him at all when he hides every part of himself behind a thousand granite shields .
i wonder if that shy little boy he once was is curled up in the center of the phalanx , or if his shields are protecting nothing at all .
im not angry .
just tired .
wet and wrung .
still shivering .
hungry .
weve been sitting here in silence too long .
gabe doesnt know , does he ?
no .
tense .
tarren doesnt realize that this isnt the punishment .
you never told him how grand found out about me .
no .
maybe gabe could have found me sooner , before grand i almost say tricked you , but swallow those words and manage came after me .
you could have warned me or hid me , or , i dont know , something .
its possible , he says .
then why tarren ?
silence .
to salvage your pride ?
i cant understand the expression on his face .
cant understand anything about him .
arent you even sorry ?
i cry .
tarrens energy escapes his control and jumps up high between us a conflagration of pained red and deepest ochre that blasts open my palms .
he wrestles it down again .
yes .
quiet .
strained behind closed teeth .
yes , he says again , this one even softer .
it would have been nearly inaudible to my old ears .
i open the door of the suv .
rain pecks at my leg and shoulder as i step out .
deep , moist breath .
puddles broken and clouded by my muddy feet .
i wont tell gabe .
we look at each other , defenses dented but holding .
thank you , he whispers .
i need to learn to fight .
ill teach you .
he starts the engine .
good .
i close the door , and tarren drives away , leaving the ghost of grand trailing chilled fingers down my back .
searching .
discovering what he knows is there .
he baited my brothers with their own concern .
tricked and followed them to me .
i knew they would find you .
faulty heroes , but i wont tell them .
there is pain enough already .
guilt enough .
burdens enough for us all .
i tilt my head back and catch falling raindrops in my mouth .
they taste like rust , but i feel a little more human for doing it .
chapter 45 in the empty motel room i pull off my clothes slowly , though this will be painful no matter how i do it .
then its just me freestyle blood art on my face , necklaced in bruises , puffy shoulder , purple blue amoeba along my back where i hit the tree branch , red rimmed eyes and mouth open , panting strangled notes of misery , because i dont know how i can possibly handle this .
any of this .
theres been no sun today or the day before that .
i clutch the sides of the sink , retching up the dust in my stomach .
im thinking about zac effron grinning down on an empty bed , and the jonas brothers jamming with no one listening .
the shower takes the blood off my skin , and i stay in longer just to see if it can get anything else out .
afterwards , i sit on the floor of the bathroom and tear my muddy clothes in half so ill never have to wear them again decapitate that smiling teddy bear .
the rabbit is smart enough to hide beneath gabes bed .
i lay on mine , keeping my fingers curled tight over the open slits in my hands while i wait for my brothers and try not to think about anything .
i whisper grands taunt over and over again , the syllables creased and worn with use .
everything you ever stood for will be forgotten .
i will bury your body so deep in the ground that no one will ever dig you up .
ill rid this world of every single one of your angels of death .
i will soak your dreams in blood and burn them to ash .
there wont be a speck of you left , and the world will be a better place for it .
goodbye father .
grand is still out there in the world .
waiting .
plotting .
he followed the boys once , but he must have lost them after the fight .
he hasnt found us yet , but hell try again .
tarren will train me , and ill be ready .
i will kill him .
i must .
my brothers return together three hours later .
i listen to their car doors open and close .
the faint whispers of energy i know so well .
slow circles for gabe , twitching for tarren .
they stand in front of tarrens door , and i try to imagine what look they must be exchanging .
get some rest , tarren says .
yeah right , gabe mutters .
neither moves .
do you think shell be alright ?
tarren thinks before answering .
she doesnt have a choice .
i guess .
gabe walks to our door .
he pauses , probably fishing for his key card .
shes strong , tarren says .
im going to find a way to make it easier for her .
for nowjust keep being you .
alright , gabe says softly , surprised like me .
goodnight .
get some rest , tarren says again .
they open and close their doors together .
i have taken this time to pull the covers up over my body , to tuck my hands beneath my pillow and close my eyes .
i hitch my breath when gabe pauses by my bed .
he moves on , and i let my breath out slow .
gabe stays in the shower for a long time .
i listen to the hiss of water , the sound of him scrubbing over and over .
lady mcbeth sits on the sink and laughs .
after the shower , gabe keeps on his boxers and white undershirt and tosses the black clothing in the general proximity of his duffle bag .
sir hopsalot can not be induced to emerge from his hideout despite promises of a bowl overflowing with salad mix .
after a half hour online , gabe shuts down his computer , runs a hand through his drying hair and turns off the lamp .
we lay in our separate beds staring at different things .
gabe picks the ceiling , and i choose his energy , watching it tick in agitation just like tarrens .
i try to stay as still as the twitching will allow .
an hour goes by , and his energy is still sparking up and down , his heart thumping fast .
i can still smell the bleach on the clothes he was wearing .
blood too .
im twitching harder now .
hands sweating under the pillow .
the bulbs are out , pulsing hot .
thoughts coming undone .
why do you do it ?
i ask .
a sigh .
do what ?
gabe turns his head in my direction .
it .
this .
hunting angels .
lets say you do win .
tarren creates a cure .
whatever .
all the angels are back to normal .
the world will still be a violent and ugly place .
there will still be gangs and drugs and war .
bad things will always happen to good people , angels or not .
gabe rolls onto his stomach , props himself up on his elbows so that he can turn toward me .
my father was a geneticist .
he helped dr. cook with his research , helped him figure out how to do it .
make angels .
he didnt know , thought it was all theoretical , but he helped create them .
its our fault theyre here , so we have to make it right again .
what your father did is not your fault gabe .
you didnt even know him .
its our mission .
its not your job to save the world .
to give up your life for it .
thats not fair at all .
if the angels win , its all over .
theyll breed humans for food or hunt us down like animals .
i cant let that happen .
i wont .
his voice is rising .
maya , we save people .
thats worth everything , everything that weve suffered .
its worth dying for .
all that other stuff , gangs and war , well , i figure those are human problems and humans can solve them .
did krugal talk ?
in the long pause that follows , gabes energy shivers with wan yellows .
i can almost see the memories playing across his mind , pressing sharp nails against his psyche .
yeah , he says finally .
there are certain pressure points on the body .
it didnt take long .
and then you killed him .
its the job , gabe whispers , and im not sure who hes trying to convince .
we are silent a long while after this .
gabe shifts to his back , stares at the ceiling again .
i curl my hands into fists , bite my lip , push my nails into the flesh of my palms .
anything to hook my attention away from the hunger and this growing panic that the night will never end .
rain patters against the windows .
so much rain .
finally , in desperation , i ask , do you really think well win ?
a long quiet .
i dont know , gabe whispers .
oh .
we wait the night out together , lost in our very different struggles .
eventually , the torment loosens its grip on gabes mind .
i watch his aura lose its peaks and eddies as he yields to exhaustion and drifts into a heavy sleep .
now his energy hums , smooth and quiet .
no nightmares for him .
lucky brother .
as soon as gabe is asleep , im out of bed and across the room .
sitting at the desk .
tapping , tapping , tapping my fingers .
following tarrens energy , all jittery and exhausted , as he paces next door .
trying to keep a reign on myself .
thinking of what amber said about being evil .
but i cant think , not really .
its all faux thoughts , tangled ribbons each leading to the ugly hunger inside of me .
the song .
audio hostem .
how to describe the song .
i pull my notebook , all soggy with apologies , out of my bag .
open to a clean page .
press my fingers hard against my temples and feel the heat from my hands on each side of my face .
glowing again .
knees jiggering .
tarren still pacing .
gabe breathing slow stupid enough to fall asleep with a monster in the room .
that thing is happening when i lose all my thoughts .
words slip away .
sentences crack under the weight .
im forgetting my own name .
this means i have to think of ryan .
concentrate on him and his vanilla scents .
and gurgely stomach .
and maybe avalon if i can get over these knives sticking in my heart .
ryan .
ryan .
ryan .
please .
oh , ryan .
dont let me kill my brother .
at least not the one i like .
i need to write something .
about the hunger ?
about ryan ?
i havent written anything since that night except for imaginary letters asking for a forgiveness i will never earn .
ive been too afraid of the things that will come out of me if i let them .
but tonight i need distraction .
even if it means giving voice to the monster .
the pen is shaking on the paper , dropping loose letters up and down the lines .
im not sure the words even make sense .
im so close to breaking .
i can feel it , and theres nothing i can think to do except keep unwinding my soul on the page .
keep writing .
keep trying .
keep holding myself back .
this feels useless .
im not evil .
not yet .
not until gabe shifts in his sleep , and his energy jumps .
im not evil , even though im suddenly standing over his bed .
this is all animal .
all instinct .
there is no maya left to be evil .
just the monster dancing to the song .
gabe is on his side , one arm tucked under the pillow , the other curled in front of his face .
that wavy hair is all over his pillow .
he smells like soap and shampoo .
his aura is so round and perfect .
blue as blue .
true as true .
he should have never trusted me .
my gloves are gone .
it will be quick he wont even wake up .
ever wake up again .
a painless death for my sweet brother .
maybe even a sort of kindness .
no more worries , no more fear , no more aching loneliness .
im going to have to kill tarren too .
it would be too cruel to take away the only person he has left .
monster maya .
pixie girl .
fallen angel .
all swirled together into muddy brown .
my hand reaches toward him , glowing bright .
gabe blocking tarrens gun with his own too big heart .
maya , take my hand .
im trusting you with my life right now .
putting on deodorant just for me .
youre my sister , and im going to protect you .
i wont let you slip .
i wont let you fall .
the way he glances at me sometimes and streaks of loving purple spread through his aura .
he never flinches when i touch him .
this is how gabe rescues me again , like he always does .
i look down at my sleeping brother , and i need someone to believe in me .
i need to know that someone thinks im strong enough to save myself , even if i dont .
epilogue im on the roof of the motel , though i cant remember leaving the room .
the hunger is still tearing me to pieces , so that means i didnt kill gabe .
tears of relief drip down my face , or maybe its terror , or some strange , sad mixture .
im laughing , but its all hiccups and retches .
i have the notebook in my hands , and now i remember .
there is one letter i havent written .
one persons forgiveness i have not yet begged .
because to ask forgiveness is to acknowledge that he is dead .
it is to lay flowers upon his grave and wish him well in whatever comes after this , though i suspect there isnt anything at all .
i open the notebook and flip past the other pages .
my hands are shivering and twitchy , but i feel more in control now that the worst has passed and i am alone on the roof .
the words dont come , but they will .
i can wait .
i take a deep breath , all wet and wonderful .
amber said i had an aura , small and ugly though it was , which means there is still a part of me that is human .
i dig my nails into my palms as i finallsy digest her words and realize what they mean .
i am a hybrid , i say the words out loud .
this means theres hope .
hope that i can control the hunger .
didnt i just pass the most crucial test of all ?
wasnt the song drowning me and still i held my breath ?
the hiccups are dying down , but my heart takes over , kicking hard in my chest , testing the integrity of my ribs .
little snaps go off in my stomach , like butterflies exploding .
im in control , i whisper , awed .
and i believe it .
i really do .
i look down at the crazy , terrible paragraphs scrawled on the pages of my notebook .
i will start again .
i will tell ryans story , and gabes story and tarrens story .
and the story of a girl with broken wings .
something glitters on the horizon .
the first lip of sun edges up from the darkness .
the clouds hover close , ready to eclipse , but in this moment the sun is free of their reach .
a girl with broken wings , done falling .
i take up my pen and turn to the next empty page .
its time to say goodbye to ryan .
and finally , the words come .
get the follow up novella to falling for free mayas adventures and tribulations are just beginning !
follow her , gabe , and tarren as they fight the good fight and make a grizzly discovery in coping , a follow up novella to falling .
you can read this fast paced , absorbing novella for free by joining my email list so that i can keep you in the loop when i release something new .
click here to sign up , and ill send you the super secret code to get coping for free .
get a short taste of coping in the sample below .
friends review friends books if you enjoyed falling , please consider writing a review .
your reviews and referrals mean a lot and can help other readers fall into the grip of mayas adventure .
keep in touch wait , dont go !
you just got here .
please come by and say hello if you have time .
my website includes a few special extras for my extra special fans you are extra special , arent you ? .
find me at website www.jbennettwrites.com social media www.facebook.com jbennettwrites email jbennett jbennettwrites.com works by j bennett girl with broken wings series falling book one coping novella , 1.5 keep reading for sample landing book two rising book three the vampires housekeeper chronicles employment interview with a vampire short story , 1 the vampire hunter comes to call short story , 2 duel with the werefrog short story , 3 when vampires and ninjas collide short story , 4 death in the family short story , 5 about j bennett j bennett lives and writes in san diego .
her writing partner is a bunny named avalon who contributes to each manuscript by trying to eat it .
his adorableness is his primary strength as a writer .
j bennett is a professional copywriter and an author who loves asking that oh so dangerous question what if ?
she currently writes a paranormal adventure series , girl with broken wings , and a tongue in cheek vampire humor short story series , the vampires housekeeper chronicles .
contact j bennett at jbennett jbennettwrites.com next in the girl with broken wings series coping a novella we make it to poughkeepsie , ny in late morning of the third day on the road .
turns out that poughkeepsie is a quaint , pretty town right next to a thick vein of dark water , the hudson river .
were all tired and achy , and gabe finds us a room at a rundown inn .
theres no time for rest .
gabe and tarren hash out a quick plan , deciding to case the targeted house in the morning and then return for the kill at night if hendricks proves to be present .
we each take a turn in the shower , throw on a new change of clothes and then its back to the suv , which stinks of our bodies and the food the brothers have eaten on the road .
at least the sky is clear , and the sun is streaming down , soaking into my skin and soothing my raw hunger .
we push out of poughkeepsie , turning onto increasingly smaller , older roads , until we are bumping over potholes , and spindly branches tap against our windows .
individual houses crop up every couple of miles or so .
i focus on the energy of my brothers , amazed at how tight and locked each are .
ready for action .
the opposite of the jittery nervousness and uncertainty that is the clay of maya .
when we hit a dirt track , tarren carefully pulls off the road .
how far out ?
he asks gabe .
bout three quarters of a mile .
we walk from here .
our cover is that were hikers .
i get out and shade my eyes .
summer isnt leaving new york without a fight .
the air is hot and heavy enough to mix with a wooden spoon .
a high chorus of insects thrums through the thick woods on either side .
i feel hemmed in by these large trunks .
its definitely giving me a b horror movie vibe .
you might want to go hang with tarren for a bit , gabe says as he jumps out of the passenger seat .
ive got ta shake a leg if you know what i mean .
it was only a twenty minute drive , i tell him .
yeah , well , i got ta go again .
so sue me .
he turns and unzips .
i beat feet to the other side of the car and cover my ears .
tarren pulls open the hatch and leans in to collect gear .
he sees me , peers over to gabes side of the car and shrugs .
when i deem it safe and uncover my ears , tarren says , the downside of enhanced hearing , huh ?
his mouth quirks up in a short smile .
yeah , i guess , i reply .
this is weird , us bonding , and i think tarren recognizes it to , because the smile comes off his face , and its almost like it was never there at all .
he goes extra solider , his back cranking a little straighter .
i want to go do the recon with you , i tell him and try to sound self assured .
this enhanced hearing , i tap my ear , could come in handy .
tarren doesnt say anything for a moment , and i know his mind is churning over all the possibilities , weighing the benefits of my enhanced senses with the negatives of him thinking that im a total screw up .
okay , he says softly , though theres still a hint of mistrust in his features .
really ?
i cant squelch my surprise .
we have a deal , tarren reminds me .
oh yeah .
tarren trains me to fight , and i dont tell gabe that tarrens the reason grand found out about my existence .
still zipping up , gabe comes around .
we camouflage the car and go in quiet , just close enough for a view , tarren says .
we confirm if hendricks is on the premise and if hes alone , and then we pull back .
gabe nods .
i nod too , cross my arms over my chest and try to look like this spy stuff is totally standard .
my brothers arm up .
tarren prefers a 32c glock on each hip .
gabe slips on two shoulder holsters and sticks a loaded barreta px4 into each one .
they both sling a pair of military grade binoculars around their necks .
while my brothers get ready , i snap off some heavy branches from nearby tress and stack them up in front of the murano .
its a pretty crappy camo job , but ill trust in gabes philosophy that people dont notice jack shit .
ready ?
tarren asks gabe .
yeah .
and you ?
tarren looks over at me .
i could never have envisioned my life heading down this twisted path where monsters lurk on the other end .
but i nod anyway .
gabe throws me a pair of sad eyes but doesnt say anything .
he hates that im doing the mission thing with them now .
too fucking bad for him .
well close in on 300 yards , tarren says .
check , i reply as gruffly as i can , even though i dont know how far away 300 yards is .
with tarren in the lead , and gabe behind me , we slip into the woods and slowly make our way toward hendrickss house .
we dont pass any other residences on the way .
fear is a fascinating thing .
how it can crawl into your stomach , small as a gooey larvae and then grow and grow until it fills up your entire body .
both tarren and gabes auras are calm .
they have a technique for this that i have not yet learned , but i wonder at the thoughts that cross their minds .
if they can possibly be pushing through the same mental quicksand that pulls me down further with each step .
here , tarren says softly .
a bead of sweat trickles down his face , and there are growing patches of wetness beneath each arm .
sure enough , up ahead , the dirt road leads to a handsome colonial .
three floors at least , with a heavy faade of bricks and white siding .
lotta cars out there , gabe whispers behind me .
three suvs and a jeep are lined up behind each other at the end of the road .
next to the house is a large metal barn .
inside the barn isoh no .
we may be dealing with more than just hendricks , tarren says .
well spread out , link up by bluetooth and find out how many angels are in that house .
gabe , you take point .
maya and i will the barn , i whisper .
gabe is already climbing up a tree behind me .
tarren lowers his binoculars .
what ?
humans .
in the barn .
i feel the whisper of their auras , even from this distance .
how many ?
i dont know .
i close my eyes , and try to hone my sensethat new and terrifying predator part of me that automatically locks onto the pulse of human auras .
theres something wrong with their energy .
theyre weak .
confused .
tarren looks up at gabe .
they dont say anything , but i know those identical expressions .
theyre sharing something , and it isnt good .
shit , gabe whispers .
tarren turns back to the house and raises his binoculars .
four different vehicles a side door opens from the house , and two men emerge into the daylight .
one is tall and brawny , wearing a torn muscle shirt and a pair of skinny jeans that suck against his powerful legs .
the second is short , slighter than his companion and blanketed with thick dark hair on each arm .
hes rocking a heavy gold watch on his wrist that glitters under the sun .
maya ?
gabe asks grimly .
no auras around the two men .
angels , i confirm .
both of them .
thats hendricks , tarren says .
the shorter one .
the two men stroll toward the barn .
hendricks has something clutched in his right fist .
it cant beleashes ?
my skin breaks out in goose bumps .
gabes aura starts to jump , but he takes a deep breath and it soothes back down .
the bigger of the two angles pulls open the door of the barn .
hendricks saunters into the doorway and barks out a laugh .
even from this distance , his loud , arrogant voice carries to my sensitive ears .
how are we all doing today ?
no , dont get up .
its fine .
tarren my voice trembles .
quiet , he hisses .
who wants to join us for brunch ?
hendricks says .
no volunteers ?
again ?
he laughs .
how bout you hero boy ?
you wan na save your new friends ?
step on up .
there are scuffling noises .
a weak scream .
the angels emerge from the barn , dragging two young men behind them on leashes .
the humans have their hands bound in front of them and collars around their necks .
the angels tug on the leashes .
the tall , lanky boy in my field of vision manages to keep his feet , but the other one stumbles and falls .
hendricks laughs and kicks the fallen human .
he then starts walking again , dragging the whimpering boy across the ground .
the other human , the one who managed to keep his feet , bends down and pulls his companion up .
he supports the boys weight , and his face is set with grim determination .
he is filthy , brown hair matted to his head , deep cuts and gouges marring his pale face .
he limps with abuse unseen beneath a stained t shirt and jeans .
but it isnt just their bodies .
their auras are battered , leeched of color , hugging close to their bodies .
weak as the wavering flames of a dying candle .
what is this ?
i can hardly get the words out of my mouth .
tarrens face is grim , set in steel , but i can tell that hes angry .
furious .
a farm , he says .
its a human farm .
purchase coping on smashwords also by j bennett employment interview with a vampire the vampires housekeeper chronicles betsys notion of a fixer upper is actually a dilapidated mansion that might have been an especially nice country estate about 50 years ago .
now the paint is peeling , the window shutters are crooked , and the place looksin three wordsspooky as hell .
and this is before i search in vain for a doorbell and am forced to use the heavy brass gargoyle knocker .
i hear its echo reverberate inside the house , and a chill runs all the way through me .
my unconscious mind is starting to have some doubts , but my conscious mind is all too aware of the stack of bills sitting on my kitchen counter .
come in , a deep , sonorous voice calls from inside .
i push open the door , and yep , it gives out a nice , lusty creak .
mr. hayward ?
i venture .
this is deidre from the bullseyeemployment.agency .
my voice trails off as i look around the foyer , which seems to be functioning as some sort of spider web sanctuary .
then there are the dust bunnies , which are actually just about big enough to qualify as dust german shepherds .
come into the sitting room child , that spooky voice speaks up .
betsy never mentioned how much this job paid , but id already made up my mind to hold out for at least 12.00 an hour .
now i wonder if maybe i should crank it up to 12.50 an hour .
my feet hesitantly shuffle into the living room , and this is where i get my first official eyeful of my potential boss .
a cape .
nathaniel is actually wearing a black cape .
i will learn later that nathaniel feels very strongly about wearing the cape for houseguests , but in this moment i am completely flabbergasted .
i guess its also time to deflate another long held vampire myth .
not all of them are incredibly attractive .
or even mildly attractive .
and they definitely dont stay young forever .
when nathaniel sees me in the doorway , he throws back his cape dramatically revealing a bow tie , suspenders , and a pair of pants cinched up around his belly button .
he also has a pencil mustache on his upper lip , bushy black eyebrows and a white poof of hair on his head .
youre late , nathaniel says .
i look down at my cell phone .
9 03 am .
what kind of watch is that ?
nathaniel asks accusingly .
im not wearing a watch , and it takes me a moment to realize what hes talking about .
its a phone , i tell him .
nathaniel waves a pale hand in disgust .
everyone is so excited about those damn phones .
give me a telegraph any day of the week .
nathanial lowers himself into a ratty , wing backed chair with stuffing coming out of several holes .
in the grate , a large fire blazes and throws shadows wildly across the room .
yeah , telegraph , those were the best , i mumble .
i wonder if i should sit down , but since he hasnt invited me , i just keep standing in the doorway .
nathaniels piercing blue eyes give me the once over .
i see you chose to wear pants .
his bushy black eyebrows crunch together in disappointment .
how very improper for a woman .
i look down at my nice navy slacks .
sorry ?
i venture .
and you seem quite old to be seeking independent employment .
im 24 , i tell him , though im pretty sure its illegal to discuss age in a job interview .
surely you are married and have born your first child .
okay , this part is definitely illegal , but i answer him anyway .
nope , its just me .
a spinster then , nathaniel clucks his tongue with reproach .
perhaps if you didnt dress yourself in such disgraceful garb you could make yourself more desirable .
he waves a hand .
though , perhaps it doesnt matter .
at your advanced age , your chances of finding a good marriage are exceedingly low .
at first im too shocked to even be offended or angry , but then his words sink in , and i feel a hot flush jump to my cheeks .
these pants are just fine , i huff .
yep , this is the best comeback i can muster on short notice .
i thinki think ill just go .
i turn to leave when a sound fills the room .
it is the macarena .
damn , nathanial says , its the telegraph .
he stands up , walks over to the mantel , lifts the lid of an ornate box and pulls out a cell phone .
he stares at it , obviously confused .
here , let me .
the phone is on its last chord of the macarena when i take it from his hand and accept the call .
turns out that nathaniels blood pressure medication is ready for pickup at the local walgreens pharmacy .
i give nathaniel the message , and this puts a sour expression on his face .
i need to stop eating so many obese humans , he says .
despite the cape and severe anachronisms , i still havent figured out that nathaniel is a vampire , so i automatically assume he meant to say , i need to stop eating with so many obese humans .
of course , this doesnt actually make any better sense , but i dont give it much thought .
well ?
nathaniel demands .
well what ?
go on and pick it up .
im not your slave , i reply before i can stop myself .
of course not , he snaps back .
you are white and this is a non slavery state .
ive considered moving to tennessee for just that reason .
we stare at each other .
two things hit me .
first , nathaniel is one hell of a misogynist and racist .
secondly , i think i just got the job .
employment interview with a vampire , a short story by j bennett , is available for purchase on smashwords .
the follower stephen morley january 2012 copyright and publishing information moses trod by stephen morley smashwords edition .
published by exoddy books .
exoddy books , po box 1206 , guildford , gu1 9rh united kingdom .
the right of stephen morley to be identified as the author of the work has been asserted by him in accordance with the united kingdom copyright , designs and patents act 1988 .
text 2012 stephen morley maps 2012 stephen morley illustrations 2012 eileen morley cover design and double cross symbol 2012 eileen and stephen morley .
smashwords edition , licence notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be resold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this ebook with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if you are reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author all characters in this publication are fictitious and any resemblance to real persons , living or dead is purely coincidental .
isbn 978 0 9570621 3 9 exoddy books england contact details available from http www.exoddy.co.uk v.1.3 05.01.2012 the follower is dedicated to my son , for whom it was first written over fifteen years ago .
with special thanks to my wife for her assistance and encouragement during the writing and production of this work .
table of contents prologue chapter one big city lights chapter two chrissy chapter three sgurr cavan chapter four the double cross chapter five the big city chapter six the star chamber chapter seven secret river chapter eight the snowy mountains chapter nine going home chapter ten two hearts epilogue map of suidhe map of big city map of mainland when history is mystery , when reason seems unknown , when time has lost its destiny , let no man walk alone .
prologue in the oldest fields of space , beyond the farthest galaxies , at the edge of the cosmos , shines a solitary light .
it is moving forward through a glorious vaulted arc on an inevitable journey .
the object sears the emptiness with fire and ice a comet racing across the heavens .
millions of millions of years pass unheeded as the trailing time traveller flies on , until it becomes a speck of light in some ancient eye .
the light grows by night , seen by the first ancestor , for the earth is still young .
it streaks by , screaming through the skies , and flies into the void seeming to be forever travelling on , but one day to return .
millennia pass .
the circuit of the comet will lead to its own destruction as the flare grows once more in the night sky .
this time around , it does not pass by , but crashes with devastating destruction onto the surface of the planet that we now call our home .
it lodges , a small piece of foreign matter , beneath the skin of the earth and slowly cools .
in time , it is forgotten .
the ages pass continents take shape and shift , ever moving , into new forms .
inside the crust of this living place , the comet has lost its outer shell to reveal within , a single massive crystal .
it is buried beneath a hill , now an island .
the crystal grows and begets another and another , until all the material of the comet has been consumed .
within this secret place , yet unfound , the crystals wait , clear and pure , a substance not of this earth .
they are formed of materials beyond our comprehension , the essence of time distilled by destiny to be a part of our future .
chapter one big city lights it is late and the night outside is black .
the small wooden box lies open and i hold the two clear gemstones in my hand .
the firelight plays across the facets of the crystals .
once again , i remember .
the book lies open on my desk and i turn to read the words i have written .
the desk light reflects against the black glass of the window .
below me the town is dark and silently asleep .
i open the window and i can hear the sea as it breaks against the shore .
everything on this island is close to the sea .
the smell of salt and seaweed permeates the fabric of our lives .
the wash of the waves and the fiery crackle of the pebbles rasping on the beach play a constant background rhythm to every thought .
over the sea , the clouds part for a moment .
there is a sudden glance of moonlight on the wave tops and the momentary , flowing canvas of deep marine blue caresses the eyes like a mirage .
these sensations are always near .
the clouds close again , yet in the deep of night , i still sense the movement of the sea far below .
my mind wanders beyond the confines of the night to this island , to my home , to suidhe .
the sea controls the lives of everyone here .
we live and die by the will of water and weather .
ever changing , she exudes emotion , temper and free will like a living thing .
i have seen the gentlest waters kiss the rocks with a murmuring ebb and flow .
i have felt the earth jarring beneath the shuddering crash of stormy mountain waves that shout at the rocks in anger .
on either side of the town , low earthy cliffs rise above the pebbly beaches .
here and there , glistening peaty streams tumble down waterfalls to the shore and into the waves .
in the late summer the seals bask and play on the rocks that emerge from the water like broken teeth beyond the cliffs .
all the while , the endless turmoil of gulls patrols the sky above .
this eastern coast is sheltered from the extremes of the weather and is softer and gentler than the exposed western shore .
the rocky coves and inlets , hidden in the folds of the hills , reach green fingers out from the island to touch the waters edge .
streams rise from the springs on the hills , at the centre of the island , and fall dancing down through small ravines .
they gather into a river that flows across the plateau above the sea cliffs .
the waters surge down the final valley and pass into a stony estuary which shelters between steep wooded hills down to the old bridge .
this small town is my home and lies on the lowest part of the coast .
here , we face bravely out across the water towards the mainland and the big city , a glistening ribbon of light on the horizon .
on the mainland our town would just be a modest village but here on our small island , it is the centre of living and proudly considered a town .
oldford is a quiet , slow , settled place with winding streets that climb above the harbour .
the old houses rise from the stony ground on either side of these steep lanes .
they stand one above the other so that it seems each one perches on the roof of the house below .
the stone in the walls was hewn from the old quarries in the hills , even the roofs are tiled with slabs of stone .
these old houses emerge from the hills with seamless continuity , grey and hard .
yet the stone has softened with the ages and the weathered walls are covered with lichens and moss pillows the roofs .
on the western side of the island , the storms blow in , wild and windy , from the vastness of the empty ocean and batter the ragged shore .
gulls and gannets noisily cruise the air above the stony heights and ceaseless waves .
cool , dark caves pierce some of the steeper cliffs , issuing streams from their ferny shadows .
few trees grow here , where the salty wind stunts the growth of all living things .
one sheltered inlet hides behind a spur of rock that curves around a small bay and the foaming sea pounds turbulently through the entrance to this natural harbour .
it carves the rocks and cliffs into gullies with the rise and fall of stormy tides .
the small fishing village of newbridge shelters in a gap between the ragged cliffs .
the grey brown rock walls protect it from the worst winter gales .
buildings cluster around the inner harbour .
the tiny , bleak , shed like cottages are solid and low .
they have small shuttered windows and heavily braced doors .
the wildest winter will not penetrate those solid white walls .
inside , each parlour is a cosy place and the rosy cheer of peat firelight flickers on faces in friendly warmth .
the whitewashed walls and turf covered roofs are home to no more than a hundred inhabitants , but only four families .
a dozen small fishing boats rest with their keels in the mud , awaiting the tide to rise .
then , the stalwart fishermen uncles , cousins , sons and fathers , will sail them out to sea once again .
meantime , while the boats are out , the womenfolk keep house and garden , praying all the while for good weather , a good catch and a safe return .
life on suidhe is always about the weather .
midnight storms give way to silent calm dawns .
bluster winds free the days from the monotony of drumming rain .
strange and enclosing fog binds everything in cold , close , wet white .
but clouds fade as quickly as the sun to rise again , in perfect blue mornings , bathed by the happiness of a refreshing early light .
oldford and newbridge are the only settlements on the island .
a single road rises up the valleys to the cliffs and winds its way between them .
it follows the coastline around past south point and stony haven .
the centre of the island is too hilly for roads to traverse .
there , the goat tracks and old drovers ways twist and climb their way up the tight valleys , until they reach the broken moors that surround the rocky heart , but these tracks are only narrow ways .
in the south and the east the valleys are spread with small fields cultivated by centuries of fishermens wives , who tilled the land while their men folk were at sea .
the north and west remain untamed and wild where great herds of deer roam freely in the valleys we call the deer gardens .
i spent my childhood on this island .
there were not many children then , there are fewer today .
in our free time , we filled our lives with the ancient pastimes , uncorrupted by most of the modern world .
we helped in the home .
we helped with the crops and animals .
we helped on the boats when the weather was fine .
playing , exploring , adventuring together and alone , we came to know and understand our island home .
we spent the evenings by the fire with our families , or alone , reading in our rooms .
the distant sound of voices raised in song issued from houses and tavern to break the silence of the dark winter evenings .
some thought the old ways would never end while others , less comfortable , saw through the idyll to a harsher reality .
but we were not adrift on the ocean and the twinkling lights on the horizon stayed ever present in our minds .
it stood curving and coaxing our thoughts into temptation , to cross the sea .
life on the island was changing .
we were still insular but not completely isolated from the mainland .
early every morning , a ferry came in to dock at the harbour , bringing provisions and visitors .
it then returned to the mainland , taking some of the men from the island to the big city , where they worked .
each evening the ferry repeated the trip .
the ferry became our lifeline , as regular as the tides .
without it , we could no longer survive .
it is late i can hear the parlour clock striking two , calling me to sleep .
but i will work just a little longer .
i should tell you who i am .
my name is harold small , harry to everyone who knows me .
i live in this old cottage , near the steep top of the steep hill in oldford that overlooks the harbour and the sea .
sometimes , on autumn days , i see smoke rising lazily from squat chimneys below me it drifts out and hangs in a pall above the valley and obscures the cottages .
but now , as i sit in my room and look out through the dark window , i can see across to the mainland and the big city .
the lights of the city shine and twinkle on the horizon like a distant fairground floating on a sea of black .
i look at those lights and i remember back to when i was a lad thirty years ago and the things i did then .
you see , i went to the big city , a long time ago , and this is the story of how i came to go there and why i shall never go back .
i can see it all quite clearly in my mind .
it was late in the summer holidays of my sixteenth year and once again i went down to the old harbour at oldford .
i loved the island but i was an eager teenager .
i wanted a change , a chance to break free from these close confines .
i yearned for distance , excitement , for life on a grander scale .
there was not much for me to do here and always i dreamed of going over the sea to the big city .
some nights , long after dark , i would get up , go to the front window , look out across the water and watch that shimmering horizon .
each night i would dream about life in the big city , the glittering lights and glittering dreams , dreams that had no hold in reality .
our island is ancient and remote , and years ago the roads were only stony paths .
when i was a boy there were few vehicles on the island , just two or three old tractors and some bicycles .
i longed so much to see all the exciting things that i had heard about and , most of all , i longed to be in the big city at night and to see the big city lights .
but instead i was sitting on the quayside watching others go .
my best friend was a lad about my age called frank and he had been to the big city with his father twice that year .
he never stopped talking about it the sights , the cars , the shops , the ships , the people .
everything he had seen was the biggest , the brightest , the grandest , the best , and i wanted to see it all , too .
you should see the roads , harry , theyre so wide and long and straight .
and theyve got golden fountains in the city square shaped like lions only much bigger .
there are buildings so high you cant see the roof .
its wonderful and fantastic , frank went on and all he said enthralled me .
one day soon im going to go there at night , bragged frank .
my father promised .
in the big city they dont have night , i replied .
the big city lights never stop shining , i said sullenly .
then i added , can i come too ?
frank shook his head .
no , harry , your father wont let you , remember ?
i knew he was right and looked down , but in my head i heard a familiar voice calling out in song big city lights turn night into day the sounds and the sights take you away to a magical land of neon and gold where life never stops and no one grows old the big city lights up the sky .
only yesterday i had asked my father can i go soon ?
i pleaded .
please ?
no , came the simple reply .
youre too young .
ive seen youngsters twice your age go there and never come back !
why not ?
franks going again , i persisted .
one day , no doubt , you will see for yourself .
i can tell you , life is hard in the big city .
not all that glitters is gold , you know .
i knew my father was exaggerating .
after all , my best friends father went there once a month and he always came back .
it wasnt that my father was a hard man or unfriendly .
he was the teacher at the island school and inclined to be jovial and serious all at once .
we got along fine but there was something about the big city he didnt like and that only made it seem more fascinating to me .
often i sat by the harbour making up plans for escape and adventure .
the hill behind my house curved up steeply into a jagged cliff that passed within a few feet of the walls .
if no one was watching , it was possible to jump out of a rear window and onto a ledge of rock that jutted out over the back garden .
sometimes , i would creep out secretly and leave the window open for my return .
my father would have been horrified and angry if he had known i was being so foolish as to leap across .
but it never entered my thoughts that it might be dangerous .
if only i could slip silently down to the harbour one evening after dark and climb aboard the ferry just before she sailed , then i would be able to hide away on board .
when we arrived at the mainland i would explore the big city all night .
after the ferry had returned to the island in the morning , i would run up the hill and climb into the house just in time to go downstairs to breakfast .
no one would ever know that i had been away it would be my secret .
the plan would never work , of course .
the problems seemed insurmountable .
how could i avoid being seen ?
how could i board the ferry without buying a ticket ?
i certainly could not afford the fare .
i never gave a thought to what would happen to me if i was caught .
i racked my brains for weeks , without success , to find a way of crossing the sea , but i rejected each idea at the outset .
the island isolation seemed complete , until one day something happened which gave illogical hope to my plan .
close to the centre of the island there is a hill called sgurr cavan , which raises its rocky summit higher than all the others .
you can view the sea around the compass from the top .
the islanders call it the temple of the wind .
it is a good name it is always windy there .
i had heard there was an old island legend about the place but no one seemed to know it .
i only knew it had something to do with going to the mainland .
time passed and i found out nothing more .
if i asked people about the old legend , they just laughed at me , or worse , they wanted to know why i was so interested .
of course , i couldnt tell them .
i concluded that no one knew the information i sought .
every day , whatever the weather , an old fisherman would wander slowly down to the quayside and watch the boats .
his name was eric , although everyone called him old eric .
all the boat crews knew him and they would stop and tell him their news from the sea .
he loved to hear their tales and tell his own .
he always sat on his special bench overlooking the harbour wall and he soon noticed my new interest in the place .
of course , he knew who i was .
everyone knew the school masters son .
i sat down beside old eric one day .
his nut brown old face held twinkling clear eyes , half hidden beneath thick bushy eyebrows .
years of sharp sea air had roughened his skin and made him swarthy .
he seemed as old and wise as neptune himself .
i sat there and wondered how many ships he had sailed in and how many lands he had seen .
he looked intently at me but i pretended to gaze out to sea .
what you say , boy ?
rasped old eric .
i ear you want tknow bout legends , and he laughed .
when he laughed , which was often , it was like the sound of a cackling crow , raucous and broken .
folks dont want tknow bout legends these days , boy .
theyre too busy , too young , too modern , too much of a hurry tunderstand legends , harry .
oh !
but i really want to know , i insisted .
tell me about the olden days and the temple of the wind .
i looked at him earnestly and he caught my eye .
just for a moment i couldnt look away .
i felt i was being tested .
you got a while , boy ?
sit tight an ill tell you a tale .
he bent down close to me and looked at me fiercely .
but first you must swear that youll never repeat a word of it to any folk that dont live ere .
this is island lore , no big city stuff ere , boy .
his old fingers stabbed the air in the direction of the mainland and he lowered his voice to a hoarse whisper .
they must never know our secrets .
do you swear and promise , young un ?
yes , yes , i stammered .
i swear .
the hard , penetrating gaze of the old man scared me as i spoke .
then he turned away and looked out across the water and his story began .
a long time ago , they say , there lived an extraordinary man who came to suidhe .
he was a traveller and a magician a doin his magic for them that could pay .
the magician was a great tall man with white flowing hair and strange ways .
he had a large black cape hed wear to cover all .
he was an imposing figure .
stood out in the crowd , you might say .
he had bright eyes set in an old mans face .
he never walked slowly .
wherever he went , he took mighty strides like a man with a purpose on his mind .
some folk thought he was just an entertainer and that he played games with his magic .
others took im more seriously .
they had a name for im , although if it was his real name i couldnt say .
they called him mythras , after some ancient myth .
old eric took out his pipe and started to methodically stuff the bowl with tobacco as he continued his tale .
he stayed here a while and entertained the high folk and elders .
he cast spells to keep away vermin .
tis said mythras had magic water that could make people laugh or cry .
he talked about the stars and the planets and the earth .
but the one thing that folk wanted to see he kept hidden , except to the special few he chose .
he had a small wooden box all inlaid it was , with mother of pearl carved in fancy patterns and magical signs .
he would say that he made the box himself from the wood of a special tree in a distant land .
inside the box he kept a massive gem stone .
the pale glassy crystal was magic and could change colour .
it seemed to glow as you looked into it .
the more you looked , the more you were drawn into it , like looking into your lovers eyes .
stories tell that once you had looked into that magic stone , you could never forget it .
it glowed and formed pictures in your mind , like the embers of a fire .
the crystal pictures filled your dreams with patterns and light that stretched back into the night .
the minister at chapel , at that time , was strict not like we have now .
he took a dislike to the magician and called him a charlatan and a bad man .
he made the folk believe the magician was evil and a fraud .
magic aint possible , he said .
folk was very superstitious and believin in those days and the magician was not made welcome any longer .
before long he packed his bag to leave .
mythras went to the harbour , right where we are now , to hire his passage to the mainland and the big city .
but none of the locals would take him they were scared of him .
the people got together and chased him to the edge of town and told him to magic himself away or wait for a boat with mainland folk to take him .
they told him not to come back into their town .
the magician stopped and turned on them and , in their turn , they stopped and faced him .
he looked magnificent with flowing beard and glowing eyes .
the children hid behind their mothers skirts .
the will of the men wavered as they felt his power .
magic or none , he was a strong man and his piercing eyes blazed at them .
then he spoke out in a grand voice saying curse you all .
you have refused me passage and you treat me like a criminal , yet i have done you no harm .
i have helped you many times if you only knew it and this is how you repay me .
you call me a fraud , but now i cast a spell over you and you will see the truth of me .
none of you here will ever leave this island and live .
all of you present , to the smallest child will be held a captive of this place .
do not try to get away you will not succeed or you will die in the trying .
now leave me you will not see me again but you will remember me .
oh , yes !
you will all remember me !
so saying , he turned and walked on up the hill , leaving the islanders gaping and silent .
nobody moved they were spellbound .
mythras made his way to the centre of the island and climbed sgurr cavan to its summit .
he stood at that place silhouetted against the lurid sky and raised his hands to cast his spell over the whole island of suidhe .
almost at once , a great storm began to rise on the horizon and dark clouds filled the sky all around .
it got so dark it was like an eclipse .
a strange spinning wind came racing across the seas towards the island .
the islanders could hear it screeching like hundreds of wailing souls .
when the storm began , many ran for shelter , fearing the work of the devil .
the sky was black as night and lightning forked down like snakes tongues , so close folk could hear the hiss and crackle .
billowing clouds formed above as tension filled the air .
men ran down to the harbour to secure the boats .
then the rain began .
great heavy sheets of water swept across the harbour and lashed down as the strange dark vortex came closer .
a cry went up , its a tornado , take cover .
run , run , run for your lives !
but the voice was lost in the screaming wind .
the whirling fountain of air seemed alive as it sucked up jets of seawater and consumed anything that fell into the swirling cauldron at its base .
fearing for their safety , the men abandoned the boats and struggled up to the chapel .
at that time it was the only stone building in the town .
the chapel bell was swinging wildly in the steeple and pealing out the disaster .
inside , the folk were gathered wondering and praying .
children screamed as the window glass blew in and tiles were ripped from the roof .
the noise was awful and the place seemed filled with a fearful madness .
outside , the tornado rushed across the island like a mad , wild thing , terrifying the animals , pulling at anything in its path .
they say that it went right to the summit of sgurr cavan and plucked up the magician where he stood , placid , with arms raised , waiting .
in the chapel , the people found the minister cowering in a corner and whimpering pathetically .
all attempts to talk to him failed .
it is said , to this day , that in a storm , you can hear a man whimpering in the chapel , but tis most likely just the wind in a flue .
the storm died down as quickly as it had come .
folk tell that the winds were like the sound of ghosts laughing as they sped off to the horizon .
the island , and everything on it , was soaked by the heavy rain .
torrents had gouged ruts in the roads and swept away the bridge .
everywhere , trees were leaning over or had fallen across the paths .
broken boughs had crashed onto roofs .
the animals in the fields had broken through the fences and ran wildly and panic stricken from place to place .
worst of all , the boats in the harbour lay smashed , submerged or gaping .
splintered wood was strewn across the decks .
there was not a single craft left that could endure the dangerous journey to the mainland .
it seemed that the magician had exacted a terrible revenge on the islanders .
yet incredibly , except for the ordeal of the experience , and the downfallen minister , not one of the islanders had come to any real harm in the storm .
some of the elders , having satisfied themselves that everyone was well , sent a team of young men to salvage what they could from the harbour .
without boats for fishing they knew they would soon starve .
others were dispatched to attend to the old or young in their houses and to clear the town as best they could .
they knew it would be a long task and so it was .
many weeks passed before normality could return , and many years would pass before the curse was finally forgotten .
the next day , five men set out to climb to the top of sgurr cavan to find what they could of the magician .
they hoped he would not be found , but they armed themselves in case of trouble .
as they got closer to sgurr cavan the devastation increased .
the stunted trees and bushes had all been ripped away from the lower slopes .
close to the summit of the hill is a vast amphitheatre shaped corrie .
it is a fearsome place in a storm where the winds gather and rocks tumble .
here , the whirlwind had dumped its load of debris from across the island .
rocks , boulders , roof tiles , uprooted bushes , even wood from the boats in the harbour , were deposited like so much jetsam on a beach , yet it was the top of the hill .
at the centre of this bizarre and strange old place , they found a pillar of glimmering rock crystal as high as a man .
none of them had ever seen it before and none knew from where it had come .
some said it came out of the ocean .
others said it was the magician turned to stone .
but everything had changed there forever .
as good as his word , mythras had gone without trace .
he was never seen by any of the islanders again .
a long time passed , but the five men told no one else of what they had seen on the hill .
the townsfolk were too busy repairing and rebuilding to be bothered .
the magician had gone that was all that mattered .
during the weeks following the storm , nobody left the island .
the memory of what the magician had said was still fresh and folk were not keen to try to tempt fate again .
but the need to go to the mainland for supplies was urgent .
in those days , there was no ferry and the islanders had to fetch their own provisions .
usually , they sent a pair of boats each fortnight to take produce to market and bring back essentials .
the time had come to go to market and two boats had been salvaged and repaired .
each boat had a volunteer crew of two men four of the men who had been to the top of the hill after the storm .
it was early morning and a perfect day for the journey .
the weather was fine and the sea was calm when they set sail for the mainland .
many of the island folk watched the little boats move off across the waters .
they felt happy that life was at last returning to normal , but a few of them also felt a little uneasy .
what about the curse of mythras ?
would the boats ever return or had the minister been right about the magician ?
storms , after all , were not unusual on the island , although no one living then had ever seen a tornado there before .
the sailors were not expected to return until evening and it was late in the day before people began to gather on the harbour wall to await the boats .
the first star shone through the clear evening light as daylight faded and two sails approached the harbour walls .
there were exclamations of relief from the small crowd gathered on the wall .
the evening breeze blew the heavily laden boats briskly homewards .
it was not light enough to see into the boats as they neared the quay .
not until the last moment did anyone realise that something was wrong .
the boats came in , low in the water , weighed down with their cargo .
the sailors were surprised .
why hadnt the sails been dropped .
leaving it bit late , whats up with em ?
but the boats rode on straight into the harbour wall .
men scrambled down to help unload the boxes and crates only to discover that the crews had gone .
the boats were full of provisions but the four men had disappeared .
there was no sign of them , no clue to signify why they had vanished or how the boats had returned without crews .
there was nothing they could do but unload the supplies .
some days later , when a mainland boat arrived , enquiries were sent back to the big city , but came to nought .
the mystery was never solved , the men were never found .
from that time , the mainland crews brought the provisions and that was the beginning of the ferry .
time passed by and healed the wounds wrought by the great storm .
the islanders slowly forgot about their ordeal and mythras the magician .
there were , however , two other strange events that took place at about that time .
the first was known only to a few who had been to the top of sgurr cavan and seen the pillar of crystal .
exactly one year after the storm , the strange pillar vanished .
no one knew where or how .
some time after , one dark night , the two boats , which had sailed home so mysteriously empty , also disappeared .
no one recalls if the magicians curse came true .
generations passed and many years after all the folk who had witnessed the great storm had grown old and died , a new minister came to the island .
his name was reverend finder and he became interested in the history of the place .
he heard the old tales about mythras and the storm , just as i have told yer , and he became intrigued and started to investigate the mystery .
research he called it , but island folk didnt take to it .
his investigation didnt last long because he went missing whilst out walking one day but tis said he found the crystal , the white crystal of mythras .
a search was made but he wasnt found .
later on , the body of a man was found at the bottom of a ravine out by the western coast .
he appeared to have fallen and he was quite dead .
but he was not the reverend finder , nor anyone from the island .
most folk thought little of it .
they were not minded to believe in legends .
but tis said that the minister had set out to walk to the top of sgurr cavan that day , which is many miles from the place where the body was found .
yet , there seemed to be some connection and some said that there had been foul play .
the mystery remained unsolved and now no one will ever know what happened .
we dont have any crime , nor any police to solve it here , see ?
the heavy scent of pipe tobacco faded and old eric tapped out his pipe on the heel of his boot .
he put the old briar back in his pocket before he spoke again .
now , young un , thats all i have to tell ee .
its getting late and im going to get my supper .
one last word from an old sailor whos seen a thing or two in his time dont go meddling with the past .
folklore is for the old folk to tell its a story been passed down through generations and wheres the truth in it i couldnt say .
now harry , you run along and look to the future , not the past .
i wanted to speak , to say something .
i felt very excited inside but i could not find the right words to say .
my mind was too full of stories .
i was sure there must be something in what i had heard , something magical .
the old man slowly stood up and i followed .
thank you , i cried .
run along , then , he said and laughed .
just a story , harry , boy !
i turned away and ran off up the street .
chapter two chrissy the girl looked at the letter again .
she was a red headed teenager , tall with lively grey eyes .
she was always on the move , even when sitting fidgeting , twisting , constantly picking up , putting down .
she wore old , dirty , shabby clothes patched and faded jeans and a threadbare shirt .
the room in which she was sitting was also haphazard .
the old farm kitchen had hardly changed in a hundred years .
the furniture made from heavy , unpolished wood had a rough , time worn appearance .
plates and dishes , ornaments and sundries covered the sideboard and table .
freeway and bess , the two labrador dogs , lay in a large wicker basket that was in front of the old cast iron range .
there they dozed , with heads lolling over their black and golden forepaws .
despite the wavering midsummer heat blowing in through the open window , the mica windows in the door of the range glowed red as the woody embers flickered , lazily casting shadows across the stone flagged floor .
the fire burned there every day , no matter what the weather , as it had for as long as anyone could remember .
old nails and hooks studded the blackened beams of the ceiling .
cooking pans , tools , implements , a string of onions , bags of herbs , tankards , leather belts , old horseshoes a thousand items accumulated over many lifetimes , some used and some forgotten , awaiting their time , occupied the hooks .
this kitchen was the centre of farm life meeting place , office , dining hall , surgery , occasional boarding house .
the old place was full to the rafters with memories and histories .
the lives of generations of farm families had been played out in the theatre of this room comedies and tragedies , music hall and farce .
the echoes of those memories reverberated from the ancient walls .
it was late morning when a tall , thickset man with wild auburn hair and pallid skin , walked in through the open stable doorway .
he was the farmer and the father of the red headed girl .
he seemed weary and angry as he pulled off his worn out boots and left them sagging where they lay .
his shirt sleeves , rolled back to the elbows , revealed powerful arms and large hands with long , stained fingers .
he wiped the sweat from his brow with a large red handkerchief .
chrissy , his rough voice boomed , get us a tea , love .
he sat down heavily and leaned across the table .
the girl went to the range where a hot kettle stood black and steaming .
she refilled the pot and let it steep .
the room was silent for a minute , then she brought a mug of tea across the room and placed it on the grey boards beside him .
he looked up thoughtfully and opened his mouth to speak , but closed it again .
its okay , dad .
i read the letter .
itll be all right , i know it will .
wont it ?
her father looked up again and gripped the mug fiercely .
his eyes were alight with his anger .
its not okay , he shouted .
they have no right an i dont know what were going to do .
i never worked harder , but this is killing us and i cant do any more .
i can help .
you know i can help .
please let me help , pleaded chrissy .
no .
this is no place for you .
your mother an i have talked it all through .
we want you to go to your aunts house in the big city .
shell look after you until we settle up here and then ill find some place where we can be a family again .
her father looked straight at his daughter as he spoke , but his mind was full of the dam the dam that held back his future life and left it empty and dry .
he could not understand how it had happened .
he never believed that it was possible until the day the river began to run dry and he had seen it with his own eyes .
now , the huge new reservoir on the hillside was full and the water , that had been his , filled the great steel pipeline that snaked across the plain to the big city .
how could they have stolen his water , his livelihood , and just left him there to starve with his loving wife and his beautiful daughter ?
the water company had offered to move him to a different place .
they had offered to buy the farm .
they had warned him that if the weather was dry he might run short , but he had never admitted the truth to himself .
he was too proud , too indignant , now he was hurting and his family was suffering .
he had dug a well but it was already dry .
he had wanted to sink a borehole but he couldnt afford it without his neighbours help and they had all taken the water companys money and gone .
he turned his bowed head and looked out through the dusty window .
the fields stretched wide across the plains towards the snowy mountains .
the farmhouse stood at the centre of the farm .
a ragged old track scratched across the surface of the fields , dustily tracing its way towards the road .
the farm lay at the farthest edge of the vast prairie called the heartland that stretched across the arid miles of featureless flat lands between the mountains and the sea .
the crows stalked in the fields , among the remains of the crops .
dirty grey trees stood skeletal and leafless on the plain .
dusty mounds and dykes showed where the ditches once ran with water .
the pond in the farmyard was almost empty .
a few inches of slimy green water buzzed with mosquitoes .
one sad duck stood on the bank looking quizzically down at the scraggy weeds .
all about and above the world was an intense , fire like heat .
the sun seemed to fill the sky as it blazed down .
all creatures walked with bowed heads in that lethal light .
the blistered grey trunks of once elegant trees lined the edge of a distant field , and traced the path of the dried up river bed through this sorry place .
look outside , chrissy , just take a look .
i cant fill the river .
we have got to go now .
we cant wait till the rains come this year .
we wont last that long .
it might not rain for weeks an itll take more than rain before that river flows again .
you know whats happened .
when man goes meddling with nature it always ends in disaster .
theyve undone the balance , thats what theyve done .
chrissy could see the anger in his eyes but she wanted to stay .
but what about the farm , dad ?
you cant just leave it .
we cant sell it , love , its not worth a bean .
only a madman would come out here , to this .
the farmer waved his hands vaguely behind him .
he looked sullen .
the sound of movement pierced the walls , and the door to the parlour opened .
a woman sailed in , dressed in flowing blue .
her long black hair was tidy in a bun .
she wore a dark blue sash around her slim waist and a delicate gold brooch , in the shape of a fish , on her dress .
she walked across the room humming to herself , seemingly oblivious to the girl and the man already present .
the sad man looked up at his wife .
she was a beautiful woman and their love was great .
now , the crisis of their lives was proving too much for all of them .
she had shut out the truth .
she lived in a make believe world , pretending that life would go on as normal .
she could not conceive of a time when they would have to leave her parents farm .
she had lived there all her life and her parents and grandparents had lived there before .
the generations reached back to the first settlers one family , one farm .
he stood up and went over to the proud and serene woman , who was standing by the old , spotless sink where she was incongruously singing a sad song to a soft melody .
i love you dear , he said to her quietly .
listen to me , now .
chrissy must go soon .
i will take her out to the coach in a little while .
you must say good bye .
his wife looked up then .
she turned to her daughter .
well , she gushed , you and i must get ready .
i will dress you for the journey .
i do hope you have a lovely holiday , darling , and by the time you come back we will have everything fixed .
chrissy looked at her mother and saw the tears in her eyes .
even now , her mother did not have the strength to face the truth .
they all knew that there would be no return to the farm .
the mother and daughter went silently upstairs .
they came down a while later carrying an old case .
a transformation had taken place and chrissy looked the essence of a country society girl .
she was at once older and younger than before , self possessed but vulnerable .
she had her hair arranged tidily and wore the best clothes she possessed .
standing side by side , mother and daughter presented a picture of pathos and beauty .
chrissy carried a bag containing all that she valued her notebook , an old book of poems , a small wooden box with a carved lid and her favourite old togs .
on her dress , she wore her mothers treasured brooch .
outside , her father had their old car ready .
they seldom used the rusty black relic .
they had always gone about the area on horseback .
but now the horses were sold .
the cars old engine had been running for a few minutes and it smelt of hot oil as it idled in the yard .
the tyres were cracked and the leather seats creaked , but the car still worked enough for one last journey to the highway .
he packed the bag in the boot and opened the door for his daughter .
chrissy started towards the car , but then she hesitated and looked back to the house and the silhouette of her mother standing at the open door .
suddenly , she turned and ran off .
chrissy !
shouted her father .
but she kept running until she came to the bank of the old river , which now lay desolate and murky .
she stood and looked into the place and remembered a childhood of dreamy , sun soaked days when she had swum and splashed in the cool water .
all through the years she had walked by the banks of the river or waded through the clean clear waters .
through a dozen winters she had seen the icy beauty of that place .
remember me , she whispered .
remember my secret , river and good bye .
she looked for just a minute longer , with tears welling behind her eyes , before returning to the car and climbing into the seat without a word .
her father shut the door and they set off down the lane .
chrissy looked back and waved to the disbelieving mother .
the old jalopy bumped up the track in a billowing cloud of dust and slowly weaved around the potholes towards the dirt road .
half an hour later , at the freeway , chrissys father waited to see his daughter onto the bus that would take her into the big city .
when the old grey coach came into view , he pressed an envelope into her hand and gave her a kiss .
thats for you .
your aunt will look after you .
take care on the journey and be sure to write .
remember we love you .
good bye for now .
a minute later , he turned away as the bus faded into the heat haze .
his eyes were glistening as he climbed back into the old tattered car and turned it around towards the farm road .
beneath the noise of the car he felt the silence pressing in .
he turned on the radio for company but the words gave no relief .
the journey to the big city was a long trip and chrissy felt uncomfortable in her fancy clothes .
she longed to arrive and to turn back into her true self but somehow she knew that she would never return to her old ways .
her aunt had visited the farm on two or three occasions when chrissy was very young .
they hardly knew each other .
she did not want to live with her aunt , not even for a short time .
chrissy had never been to the city before , but she was a smart girl and knew more about the ways of the world than her country life suggested .
all of lifes harsh realities were exposed on the farm the births and deaths , good times and bad .
but even though crude and sometimes brutal , it was truthful .
she had seen much of life in the country , before the dam had spoilt it .
but all her friends had gone , one by one .
the village , two miles from the farm , had slowly emptied until it was nearly deserted .
the school had closed .
she knew she could not stay , but always hoped she would .
people were rare and treasured in the heartland .
it was not possible to pass someone by without stopping to speak with them .
the distance between folk drew them together .
the farmers shared their precious possessions and their time .
everybody had helped everybody until the end , but the disparate community split asunder and moved apart .
left alone , she read books whenever she could and escaped into other worlds , but it was not the same as before .
and now ?
now she was going too .
but sitting on the uncomfortable , grubby seat she felt that life was moving from reality into a new fiction .
the bus trundled on noisily and stop by stop the seats filled up with passengers .
chrissy was not shy .
she used to talk to everyone she saw .
in the country , on the farm , miles from anywhere , she had never once felt lonely or scared .
travelling towards the big city she was moving into a different world with a different order .
the people on the bus kept themselves to themselves .
she felt like an outsider looking in .
she saw each one pretending that the others were not visible .
they remained alone and aloof in their own little worlds .
in the loneliness of their eyes , she saw hints of desperation .
chrissy thought of her friends and for the first time in her life suddenly she too felt alone and scared .
the bus ground on and chrissy sighed she turned her head and looked out of the dusty windows .
the countryside gave way to scraggy hamlets and the hamlets turned into towns .
telegraph poles lined the verges and filled the sky with wires .
the road slowly filled with traffic cars , lorries , bikes and buses roaring and rushing .
the wooden houses in the small neat towns led on to brick houses and blocks of flats .
there were pavements and side roads , streetlights and shops .
all the paraphernalia of urban life crowded down to the edge of the road .
people were everywhere crossing the road , getting on and off the bus , shouting on the pavements , looking in the shops , waiting in their cars , smiling , laughing , crying , everywhere .
chrissy filled her eyes with the sights until her head ached .
the smell of exhaust stuck in her throat and made her feel ill. time seemed to have accelerated .
so much was going on and yet , oddly , it seemed that very little was happening , except bluff and fluster .
she felt she was looking in on a dream .
the brick houses gave way to concrete offices and apartments .
intersections , railways , enormous buildings all flowed past the growling bus as it wound its way to the very centre of the metropolis .
finally , it stopped amidst a fleet of identical buses all lined up on the oily grey tarmac at the terminus .
people jostled to get off and hurried away .
chrissy sat stunned and silent , unsure what to do next .
the driver turned .
hey , this is the end of the road for you , girl , he shouted down the bus .
aint you got a home to go to ?
she jerked up her head and her eyes were red and damp .
he looked again , he thought she might be crying .
this time he smiled .
oh .
okay .
let me help you , love .
where you going to ?
he asked her kindly .
chrissy showed her aunts address to the driver and he directed her to another bus .
you show this to the driver and hell tell you when to get off , he reassured her .
towards the end of the afternoon , chrissy arrived at her aunts apartment block .
she felt tired and shocked by the total change that surrounded her .
she was uncomfortable and embarrassed in her pretty but old fashioned country clothes .
noise and pain filled her head , and her throat was dry and sore .
she wanted more than anything to go to sleep and forget where she was .
her aunt , a slack looking woman slouching against the lamp post , was waiting for her as the bus lumbered to a halt .
chrissy knew , before she even greeted her , that they would never , could never , be friends .
hi , im jessica , said aunt jessica .
you call me jessie .
were going to have a grand time .
aunt jessica spoke in a smoky drawl that was incessantly punctuated by her drawing breath on a cigarette .
she wore scanty , casual city clothes intended for someone half her age .
aunt jessica talked unceasingly about anything that came into her head .
most of her conversation was monologue and meaningless .
the ways of the city were all important to her .
fashion was her purpose in life .
she looked her pretty niece critically up and down in a way that made chrissy hold her coat in tighter for protection .
youre so cute in that ol outfit .
i do believe youre a honey , dear , she purred in her gritty voice but didnt smile .
aunt jessie still leaned against the post , casually smoking her cigarette .
then she jerked her head and walked across , throwing down the cigarette stub on the pavement .
her jealousy of chrissys natural young beauty lay smouldering between them .
aunt jessicas flat was as gaudy as her clothes .
small rooms appeared smaller , overpowered by bright colours and oversize patterns .
ornaments and furnishings filled every wall and corner .
any clear space or room for reflection seemed to scare her .
the whole resembled a charity shop showroom and , like a shop , was never quite as clean as it should be .
there were no books to be seen .
aunt jessica never found time to read .
two weeks later , the sun was setting across the city skyline .
as usual , chrissy was alone in the apartment , high up above the grimy , litter strewn streets .
she knew that her aunt would not be back until the early hours and that when she did come back , she would probably bring another friend to visit .
chrissy would not be welcome .
she went to her room to get ready for bed but changed her mind and went instead to collect her handbag and go down on the street .
a walk would be good , she thought , and how she longed to stretch her legs across the miles as she used to do in the country .
down on the street , the dusty heat of a summer evening filled the air , stifling and slow .
people wandered , scuffing their feet on the hard pavement , too lazy to walk .
the sound of music mixed with the distant cacophony of traffic on the freeway and a thousand half heard conversations that drifted from the open windows above .
chrissy decided to find the bay that she knew to be somewhere ahead of her .
although it was evening , the night never truly found its way onto the streets of the city .
the lights and constant living never stopped .
aunt jessica had warned her to take care on her own .
youre such a sweet little lamb , honey , an this city is just full of wolves , dear .
dont ever trust none of them , specially if theyre men !
chrissy never felt scared on her own , only in the company of others she walked on .
traffic choked the main street outside but it was the best place to find her way .
chrissy had already discovered an essential feature of cities they are always bigger on the ground than they appear to be .
few people walked in this place and even fewer walked for pleasure .
debris littered the pavements and the roads were ruled by traffic .
as they passed by , drivers clocked the young girl wearing her scruffy old clothes , walking briskly and erect towards some unknown destination , but they had forgotten her by the next junction .
she was just another pretty girl in a city full of them .
the big city was divided into districts and , unknown to her , chrissy had just crossed the boundary into the docklands district .
she was heading towards the sea and passed rows of tall warehouse buildings with blank windowless sides .
the main highway spun off at a tangent and she suddenly found herself on a large empty road .
a few speeding cars and trucks sped by in a gust of exhaust fumes .
the sound of their engines clattered and echoed against the grey buildings .
the sky was a strip of half light above the hanging street lights .
no other living thing seemed to be about .
the road ended abruptly at a deserted but large intersection where a railway line ran embedded in the tarmac along the dockyard front .
ahead of her , chrissy could see the looming hulks of several large ships that lay tied up alongside the quay .
tall warehouses with covered loading bays and rusty metal clad walls stood opposite the ships .
trains of railway trucks waited in orderly rows .
gantries and cranes towered above all , bathed in the glare of orange sodium lights that shut out the night .
occasional trucks rounded the corner and crawled along the roadway into the distance .
there was little movement close by , although lights peered out from some of the ships moored at the quay .
all about her were steel hawsers , rusty machinery , crates and stacks of wooden pallets .
in the distance , men were busy shouting , whistling , loading a large , dull , rusty red cargo ship .
the small plink and lap of water betrayed the sea , here becalmed within the docks .
chrissy turned and walked slowly up the quayside , away from the lights and the men , towards the open bay .
the darkness covered her as she followed the glistening steel rails that stretched along the centre of the road .
a short distance passed before she heard a low whistle from one of the buildings .
she turned but saw nothing .
perhaps she had imagined it .
a moment later there was another louder whistle from behind .
she walked ahead quickly and a shadow stepped silently out from the dark roadside and stood in her path .
heart pounding and tense chrissy stopped dead .
the shadow spoke in a strange slurred drawl .
who goes there ?
the voice questioned .
dont you know where you are ?
chrissy became aware of other shadows closing in around her , and found herself surrounded by half a dozen young men , all dressed in black .
they stood legs apart and menacingly silent .
terrified , she spun around to look .
a large truck turned the corner and drove towards them .
the boys blinked foolishly and ran off as suddenly as they had appeared melting into the shadows , each in a different direction .
chrissy ran too , heart thumping , into the side of the road and darted back towards the street lights and ships .
the truck slowed , but did not stop before it continued on its way .
chrissy ran on to the corner of the road to town .
there she turned , hands gripped tight but all was empty behind her .
she walked briskly , almost at a run , not daring to look back through the city streets but did not encounter any more strangers .
she found her way to her aunts apartment and let herself in and slammed the door behind her with a massive sigh .
her hands trembled with fear as she tried to lock it .
she went to bed but could not sleep .
her mind was filled by the shadows of blackness surrounding her .
much later , aunt jessica returned , drunk and alone , from a night in the city .
coming into chrissys room , she shouted , and wheres the sleeping beauty ?
you wait , just you wait the boys will get you soon enough .
then youll wish you were just a plain jane , instead of instead of what you are .
mirror , mirror , on the wall .
thought chrissy but pretended to be asleep .
before she had come to the city , she had never thought of herself as beautiful or attractive but now realised she was both .
the next day , her aunt announced that she was going on holiday to the seaside and that chrissy was to go with her .
chrissy did not know what to make of the idea but accepted that she could not stay in the big city alone .
she had become bored and lethargic in the apartment .
her aunt was rude and short tempered and not the least interested in tales of the countryside .
aunt jessica was critical of chrissys father for letting the situation on the farm get out of hand .
she spent much time congratulating herself for picking up the pieces .
chrissy had never met such a selfish person before and felt at once sad and annoyed by the arrogant woman who now ruled her life .
whenever jessica brought home a man chrissy was banned from sight .
chrissy was expected to look after herself and to do most of the work around the flat .
aunt jessica cooked a rudimentary convenience meal once a day , but lived on snacks and sweets the rest of the time .
the woman had no interests beyond beautifying herself and would spend hours soaking in a bath or sitting in her room applying layers of powders and cremes to her ageing face .
underneath the strata of artifice , aunt jessica had been attractive once , but now her beauty was wasted .
she painted her face so heavily that when she emerged dressed for the city she looked like a clown .
chrissy thought it was pathetic .
five days a week aunt jessica worked in an office in the city .
when she returned each evening she was always complaining about the people she worked with and the work she had to do .
you farm people just have no idea how hard it is to do a real job , she drawled between puffs as she smoked another cigarette .
when its pay day im going to have a ball .
im broke , and you dont help any , my pretty .
costing me a fortune , you are , and thats no lie .
you didnt bring any extra money with you i suppose , did you , honey ?
and her voice took on a cajoling tenderness for a moment .
no , replied chrissy .
was i supposed to ?
i guess not , honey , mores the pity .
aunt jessica sighed .
chrissy began to despise the woman who had taken her in and trapped her .
she could not go back to the farm .
she did not have the money to return and her parents would not be able to support her even if she did return .
the situation was hopeless .
she became sullen and lazy as the summer wore on and the impending holiday drew ever closer .
one day chrissy asked , aunt jessie , wheres the river ?
her aunt stared at her strangely and then replied there aint no river in this town , sweetheart .
but there must be .
my river , it comes here .
dont be daft , girl , aunt jessica said .
if there was a river id know about it .
ive lived here all my life .
anyway , your rivers dried up and you know it is , and so the conversation ended .
chrissy went out and about whenever she could , partly to escape the boring apartment and her disinterested aunt , and partly to explore the city .
she talked to people and , although she found no friends , she became a familiar sight in the area .
whenever she met someone new , she asked them about her river and always received a similar reply .
can you tell me where to find the river ?
she would say .
what river ?
no , dear , not here , no river in this city , would come the reply .
one day , she met an old lady sitting in the doorway to a block of flats .
she said hallo and chrissy asked have you ever heard of a river in the big city ?
im looking for my river .
the old lady replied the river , my dear .
well , well , well and bless me .
no one asked about that before .
no they didnt .
i dont know about your river , but i can tell you about my river .
oh yes , oh yes , my river runs right through this town , but you wont see it for looking .
no , my dear , its lost its way , you see , gone underground it has .
do you mean there is a river here ?
chrissy asked , with excited eyes shining .
thats what i said , my dear , but you wont find it no more .
its got lost you see , she repeated .
but how can a river get lost ?
as easy as you or me , and the old lady laughed .
the river used to run right through this town as proud as can be , a long , long time ago , mind you .
there was a shipyard down by the harbour , and boats and bridges .
it was a beautiful river with trees and parks .
then one day there was a great storm at sea which blocked the harbour with sand , you see .
the river came up and up and flooded over the docks and houses hereabouts .
well , the city fathers didnt know what to do so they called in this great engineer and he built a high sea wall right around the town .
its still there today .
and he built a canal for the river to run in , all the way to the sea , with locks and sluices and all .
the river still flooded , but a way back behind the city , in the great swamp at the edge of town , you know .
but where is it now ?
cried chrissy .
now , now , i was coming to that , my dear , said the old lady .
well all those years ago this was just a small city , you know .
a good place it was in those days .
but slowly they rebuilt it , bit by bit .
they knocked down all the old places and built on all the parks .
everything kept getting bigger .
they said it was getting better , but not for the likes of us .
you see , the rich folks moved out to the edge of town and had their parks an lovely places there .
but here , well look around , its full to bursting and ugly as death .
anyhows , as they built , they covered everything , even the river , until it got lost .
most folks round here dont even know weve got a river , but we have , its right below us nobody sees it now , it must be so sad .
thank you , thank you , cried chrissy .
i knew i was right .
i will find the river .
it can be our river and i will take you there .
we can go together .
oh , no .
im much too old now , said the old woman .
but you go and find it and when you do , be sure to come and tell me .
chrissy skipped away elated .
she would start searching straight away and she would start at the harbour .
the weeks passed by and the proposed holiday drew nearer .
aunt jessica was becoming more irritable as time went by .
one day she asked chrissy hey , honey , do you really want to come on holiday ?
chrissy replied arent you going to go ?
yes , angel , im going , but do you want to go ?
suddenly chrissy realised that aunt jessica didnt want her to go and for a moment thought that she would be able to go back to the farm .
you could stay here , honey , just for one week .
ill get some stuff in for you to eat .
youll love it , keeping house on your own .
i would think it a big favour , only we wont tell your folks .
okay , sweetie ?
so it was decided and two weeks later aunt jessica shut the door to the apartment and went down the stairs .
chrissy looked out of the window and saw her meet a man on the street .
they went off together .
it was the last time that chrissy ever saw her aunt jessica .
chrissy decided that she had to go back to the farm .
she could not continue to live with her aunt .
although her aunt had left a small amount of money , it was not enough to buy a ticket back home .
chrissy decided that she needed to meet some people to help her get back , but she did not know where to begin .
she went out after breakfast the next day and explored the area where she had seen the young men by the docks .
in the daylight it was just a busy working area .
there was no sign of any young men hanging around .
that evening , she went out again and retraced her steps past the dockyard cranes and warehouses .
she walked on into the shadows by the quay and again she heard the low whistle from a nearby building .
chapter three sgurr cavan i raced up the hill to my home after old eric had told me his tale , wondering , all the way , what had become of the white crystal of mythras .
if the reverend finder had found it , perhaps it was still in the house or chapel .
i crept into the chapel and searched the place but i could not find any signs of the past that linked it with the legend i did not know it had been rebuilt .
i left the chapel and returned to my house where i looked around in all the rooms but still i found nothing .
upstairs in my room , i wondered where i might find a clue to the mystery .
i lay on my bed and looked at the ceiling .
suddenly , it struck me that the loft was the place to look .
it was full of old boxes and trunks .
it was possible to enter the loft through a tiny door at the top of a small , steep flight of stairs , on the upper landing .
i slid back the bolt , pushed open the door and crept inside .
there was a dim light from a skylight overhead .
all about there was dust and cobwebs .
old boxes lay scattered on the beams beside the grey , musty smelling planks that lined the passage .
the first box i pulled down to open sent an avalanche of dust into the air and i began to cough .
i crouched completely still .
i did not want anyone to know where i was , but there was no other sound in the house .
slowly , i opened box after box .
i found old games , clothes , toys , books all manner of strange and delightful things .
another time , i would have stopped to look more carefully at the old curios , but i had a purpose in mind , and repacked them all .
i had opened all the boxes i could find .
i was beginning to feel disappointed .
there was nothing there .
i went back to the door and was about to go out when i heard steps coming up to the attic door .
quickly , i went back into the loft and looked for a place to hide .
i managed to squeeze in behind the massive chimney and turn out the torch just as someone came into the loft .
it was my father .
harry .
is that you ?
he called out .
i decided to stay quiet .
he stayed for a moment and then went away , closing the loft behind him .
i heard the bolt slowly and noisily slide shut .
how stupid of me .
now i was stuck in the loft .
i looked around for a way out .
there was no other way .
returning to the chimney i sat down on an old board and there opposite me hidden under the eaves was an old box .
it was so embedded in cobwebs that it would have been invisible from any other angle .
it took ages to get the cobwebs off it .
i dragged it out under the skylight and saw that it had writing on the top .
i wiped away the dust and my heart missed a beat as i read property of reverend w. l. finder a mottled brown label had the words neatly inscribed in an old fashioned script .
brown twine , which broke as i pulled it , held down the lid .
hardly able to contain my excitement , i quickly opened it .
the residue of camphor greeted me .
inside the box , i found old fashioned clothes , all carefully folded and wrapped in tissue .
beneath the clothes were pens , paper , books and map .
i looked at each in turn but found no object or information that could help me in my search for the white crystal .
dejectedly , i put back the contents of the box , except the map .
i opened the map and saw it was hand drawn .
it was not of the island at all but seemed to be a place with mountains .
across the mountain range was the name snowy mountains .
although i was sure i had heard of it before , i did not know where it was , but put the map in my pocket anyway .
then i returned the box , as well as i could , to its former position .
with no other option left i returned to the door and lifted the latch expecting it to be locked .
the door opened immediately .
my father had closed the bolt but then on a hunch immediately opened it again , just in case .
he guessed i was there .
i went down to my room , changed my dirty clothes and descended to the study where my father was sitting and reading .
who was the reverend finder ?
i asked .
well now , where did you hear of that name ?
my father replied , looking up from his journal .
there is a box in the attic with his name on it , i said simply .
there is , and long may it stay there .
tell me about him , i repeated my request .
my father put down the journal and bade me sit down then he began .
there isnt much to tell you about the man .
he lived here a long time ago .
apparently he lodged in this cottage while his intended house was being improved .
only he never went to live there , though , because he disappeared .
that old box is all his property that was left in the house .
for a long time , im told , it was left in his room in case he returned to collect it .
some reports say he couldnt stand the quiet here he was a big city man , you see , and went back .
another story says he fell in the old mine workings and never got found .
i dont know what happened to him but he did leave one clue , if youre interested .
theres an old book of his in the bookcase over there .
i read it once , a long time ago , but i dont recall what it contained .
i think it was a diary and other notes .
he was a bit of a disappointment really , only stayed a couple of months , barely started the job , you know .
so saying , he picked up his journal again and continued to read .
i quickly found the book , and i wondered why i had never noticed it before it was a very ordinary , small , cloth bound notebook .
i walked out of the room clutching my treasure .
as i passed the door i glimpsed my fathers reflection in the mirror .
he sat looking and smiling quizzically at me .
the words rev .
w. l. finder suidhe 1853 showed neatly on the faded blue cover .
i opened the book .
inside the cover were the words ego sum dominus temporis in brown ink .
a different hand had added lead us into temptation !
below .
i turned the page .
clearly , it was a diary starting from the day of the rev .
finders arrival on the island .
the initial entries were disappointing matter of fact descriptions of his new life and the people he had met .
however , the entry for sunday 1st may contained a passage that excited me .
i read on .
sun 1st may 1853 today i have found an odd box hidden amongst a batch of old papers in the attic .
the box is beautifully carved , made from ebony and lined with scarlet velvet cloth .
the patterns upon each side and on the lid are very intricate and strange .
it is most unusual and precious .
inside the lid it has the letter m carved in gothic script .
i wonder what or whom m was and i wonder what he kept in such an intriguing box .
tue 3rd may 1853 the papers i found on sunday appear to be of little significance except for one small notebook .
the book contains a collection of notes concerned with the ways of a magician called mythras , who once came to this island .
whoever wrote the notebook seemed concerned about this man .
i wonder if the m on the box i found could have stood for mythras .
the notebook contained the description of just such a box .
if the box was the property of the magician , he may have used it to store a famous crystal or gem that he is reputed to have carried .
i wonder how it came to be here ?
thurs 5th may 1853 today , i received a visit from a local man peter inchcape .
he represents the elders on the island who are , i believe , the island council .
he was most welcoming and offered his assistance should i require it .
i shewed him the old notebook and he read it with interest .
afterwards he related a long tale about mythras and a great storm .
a local legend , he called it .
he tells me the stories of mythras had once been popular on suidhe , but he knew of no proof for their authenticity .
i did not shew him the box .
sun 8th may 1853 my first sunday service here .
i was very nervous and the chapel was full to bursting , but all went well and i felt quite relieved and relaxed by the end .
afterwards , i went out for a long walk across the island .
this is a good place to be and i am very happy here .
fri 13th may 1853 the box i found in the attic is no longer empty !
today i found a magnificent gemstone hidden in the chapel .
i can not be sure , of course , but i have placed it in the box , it seems appropriate .
the crystal box has been returned to its former glory !
sunday 15th may 1853 peter inchcape and i walked and talked our way up to the top of the great hill , sgurr cavan this afternoon .
the weather was very poor and we took shelter in a large cave that is near the top of the hill .
peter tells me that there are many such caves .
some of them are old mine workings and should be treated with caution .
he also told me of caves on the coast that can be reached by boat at high tide .
there are no maps of the island .
i think i might attempt to make one when i have time , like i did on the mainland when i was a curate .
tue 31st may 1853 today , i went to the other side of the island and found the old caves .
i took out a rowing boat and explored the farther openings .
the locals were much amused by my antics in the boat !
one cave leads back a long way .
i had neither time nor tide to explore far but it appears to have passages and streams entering at the far end .
there are many bats in the higher parts .
fri 3rd june 1853 one local man at newbridge is greatly interested in my questions about mythras and the storm .
i believe he knows more than he tells of the old stories .
he has told me they are legends made up to tell the children , but my discovery of the crystal box suggests to me that there must be some truth in the tale .
i explained that my interest is historical and that i propose to write a history of the island .
he clearly did not share my enthusiasm for such a project .
sat 4th june 1853 a strange thing on my walk today i felt i was being followed .
i couldnt be sure but on several occasions i thought i heard something behind me .
every time i stopped to listen there was neither sound nor sight of a follower .
as i came up the hill , i saw the newbridge man i spoke to yesterday looking around the chapel this morning .
by the time i reached there he had gone .
peter inchcape offered to help me in my researches and to introduce me to the local people i might not yet have met at chapel .
he seems a good man and very knowledgeable .
tue 7th june 1853 this is a beautiful place .
i thank god for bringing me here .
today i walked to the top of sgurr cavan and observed the view for the first time .
so often , a wreath of cloud shrouds the summit .
the peak is so much loftier than all the rest 3,000ft at least i should think .
almost all the ragged coast of this isle is visible from there .
the distant sea sparkled under the sun .
it has been a beautiful day .
the coves around newbridge are hidden from view by high cliffs at this vantage point .
i descended the far side a little way towards newbridge but as evening was approaching i turned back .
again , i was aware of the follower all the way down the hill .
thur 9th june 1853 i determined to catch the follower and discover his interest in my affairs .
i first spoke to peter inchcape about the follower .
he was inclined to dismiss it as fancy but became more serious as i persisted .
he told me , you are new on this island , my friend .
there are things that happen here we are not so proud to speak aloud .
this is an isolated place and our ways may seem a little strange at first .
of course , we welcome you to the community , but there are those here who would not welcome your enquiries .
being cut off from the mainland , as we are , some folk see us as a good place to hide away from enquiring persons .
in short , suidhe is a good place to hide and a good place to keep things hidden .
somewhat surprised , i asked if he meant smugglers .
maybe so , maybe not .
i am just saying , give the people time to get to know you .
do not be hasty in judgement .
fri 10th june 1853 another fine day .
this afternoon i have walked to the coast .
i am getting to know this island well now .
as usual , the follower was somewhere behind me .
i have seen him !
after a mile or so on the coast path i struck off up a track that leads to sgurr cavan .
the track passes through a dense pine wood .
i darted into a thicket of trees and moved quickly , turning about here and there until i felt sure i had lost him .
then i went up into a ravine i had seen from the top of the hill and through which the footpath passes .
this small ravine traps the sun and the heat was intense .
many insects were buzzing about me and , more than once , i saw a snake slide across the rocks ahead .
i crept along to the top of the steep valley and dropped down into an opening in the rock to wait .
it is very wild and rocky in this part of the island and i was completely alone , except for my shadow .
some minutes later the follower hastened up the path , unaware of my presence above him .
i had intended to confront the man , until i saw him .
i had suspected that man from newbridge who was so interested in my questions but the man i saw on the path was peter inchcape , my friend and adviser , or so i thought .
a cold feeling came upon me and i felt very scared .
i watched him pass and , when i was sure he was out of sight , i crept to the edge of the opening and stood on the ledge in the sunlight .
suddenly , i saw the silhouette of a figure high above me looking into the ravine .
he was staring straight at me .
clearly , he could see me .
the sun was behind him so i could not be certain who it was but it seems certain to be inchcape with that broad brimmed hat .
i didnt know what to do .
should i acknowledge him or go to him or turn and run or do nothing ?
something made me turn away .
i went back to the opening and felt a distinct cold draught of air issuing forth from deep within the cave .
i walked a little way in and found myself in absolute darkness .
it was the opposite of the ravine .
i had moved from summer midday to cool midnight in a space of yards .
the sound of distant water echoed about me , dripping eerily .
the underground chill made me shiver .
i was aware of a great space ahead of me that i could not see .
the caves must have been deep and the passages large .
immediately i thought of the caves on the coast and wondered if they were connected i shall have to investigate .
the cool dark air cleared my thoughts .
how stupid to be suspicious .
peter inchcape had shewn me here in the first place .
it was a beautiful day and only natural he should come out walking here as well .
i decided to walk out and meet the follower , peter inchcape , after all .
i walked out into the warmth and glare of the sunlight .
there was no one visible .
i called and received no reply but the echo of my own voice rebounding back across the rocky ravine .
in the distance , i heard a strange wild bird call but i could not see the creature that uttered it .
i turned and walked back home and this time i had no follower .
i think there is a mystery here .
it has some connection with the magician mythras and the story of the storm , but it also has something to do with the present day and the island elders .
i do not yet know what connects these parts of the puzzle or why .
tomorrow i shall go to the top of sgurr cavan again and see if i can find where the crystal pillar is supposed to have stood perhaps there is something to it .
the caves seem to hold secrets also .
this was the last entry in the diary and left me wondering what became of the rev .
finder and his mystery .
i searched further through the books and papers in the parlour but found nothing in them to complete the story .
however , by chance , i went on an errand , for my father , to the small island library .
there i found the records of the suidhe chronicle , the island news sheet .
there were many bound volumes and in one edition i found the following article .
friday 17th june 1853 a search has failed to trace the whereabouts of the rev .
w.l.finder aged 32 who disappeared whilst out walking on sunday .
he was last seen walking in the direction of sgurr cavan , in the early afternoon , by local man peter inchcape .
no further sightings have been reported .
a search party combed the area on monday , without success .
these discoveries excited me greatly .
it seemed to me that the rev .
finder may have found the crystal and mythrass box .
had he disappeared like the four sailors ?
had some other adventure befallen him on that final sunday ?
what was the importance of the caves on sgurr cavan ?
the next day , i visited my friend frank and persuaded him to come with me , to the temple of the winds , to search for the caves .
we prepared for the adventure carefully .
i packed a torch and a compass .
despite the warm weather we knew it would be cool in the caves and we both packed warm clothes and plenty of provisions in our knapsacks .
the climb to the centre of the island began early .
it would be a long trek and we had promised to return before nightfall .
i calculated that we had about twelve hours before sunset and it would take several hours walking each way to complete the journey .
frank and i walked up the hill to the edge of oldford and crossed the old bridge across the head of the gorge that marked the path of the river .
the river flowed through an opening in a low rock cliff that lay at the head of the gorge .
the waters gathered above in the marshes and moors and found their way underground to this point .
we made our way swiftly , at first , along the well used paths and tracks that threaded around the many small fields and orchards that lay below the hills .
several islanders , who were harvesting their crops of fruit and hops , waved to us as we passed .
we had a jolly time and fresh apples to eat .
walking along , i imagined how the rev .
finder had probably trodden the same paths all those years ago .
the weather was fine and , as the sun rose into the sky , the day became warm .
the dew soaked bracken , nettles and grass beside the paths slowly dried .
as we looked out across the gently rising plain , we caught glimpses of the distant sea reflecting the blue skies .
a refreshing sea breeze was blowing across the hillside and cooled us in the heat .
four miles inland , the lush green that surrounded the farmsteads gave way to a rockier terrain .
the seldom used paths thereabouts became harder to walk along .
after an hour and a half of steady walking , we found ourselves at the foot of the central hills .
we stopped there for refreshments and surveyed the scene from our vantage point above the fields .
it was mid morning as we started to climb the hillside .
there were paths to follow but they often became indistinct as they wound across the rocky outcrops .
the formation of the hills on the island was like a shelf full of books that had half fallen over on to their sides .
alternate steep rocky escarpments and shallow rising pastures built up in a fairly orderly manner towards a central point .
this area was the deer gardens , and a large herd of red deer roamed across the rocks and pastures there .
sgurr cavan , however , was a different formation and towered above in a craggy and haphazard fashion like a giant cairn of stone .
the dense dark , almost black of gabbro , pierced the skies .
sharp ragged silhouettes of rock buttresses erupted from the moors , surmounting the tawny , mellow and heather covered hues of the lower limestone slopes .
even in the bright sun of a summers day , sgurr cavan looked somehow cold and forbidding .
some rock climbing was necessary to reach the top and careful footing was imperative .
we circumnavigated each jutting outcrop through a series of steep ravines that led inevitably towards the central peak .
runnels of loose stone and scree as sharp as glass covered the steep sides of the valleys .
these deep fissures often contained narrow running streams that fairly galloped down the slopes as they gathered their forces before reaching the base of the hill where they drained into the peaty marshes above the coast .
the valleys and rocks are home to goats and sheep in the summer months and we passed a few shepherds fire circles built in sheltered places .
the higher we went the colder it became and we were glad of our warm jackets .
like so many hills , when seen from a distance , sgurr cavan was a larger and higher prospect in reality .
the sun had passed its zenith by the time frank and i finally walked into the broad corrie below the knife edged ridge that ran up to the summit .
the huge bowl shaped corrie was a bleak place of black and grey .
waterfalls tumbled down the rocks to the centre .
at that point there was a large flat topped rock around which five streams met and tumbled into a pool .
this must have been where the crystal pillar had stood .
climbing up to the top we were standing on a small level platform maybe ten feet across .
a tiny cairn of loose rock , invisible from below , was assembled on the top .
normally , it would be bad luck to disturb a cairn but i could not just leave it .
we took the rocks apart to search for for what ?
there was nothing there .
carefully we rebuilt the cairn and dropped back down to the floor of the corrie .
ten minutes of steep clambering up beside one of the streams brought us to the top .
we were at once ecstatic and tired .
there was just room to sit and steady ourselves from the unceasing wind .
it was the first time either of us had reached the top , although we had often clambered around the lower slopes .
the exhilaration of achieving the summit was superb .
the temple of the wind , i shouted .
in answer to my voice , the wind blew in even stronger gusts and with a salty freshness from the sea .
in that exhilarated moment i made a wish upon the wind i wish to go across the sea to find a perfect friend in the land of the big city .
we stood for a while with flying hair and ruddy cheeks facing the cold blast , before moving on .
up here , it was too cold , even in summer , to stay still for long .
frank and i found a sheltered place close to the rocky path by which we had ascended .
there we sat and ate a hearty lunch of bread rolls , cheese , meat and salad accompanied by a wholesome cordial .
we both felt strong and happy .
we could see all the world we knew from the top of the hill .
the air was as clear as crystal and great distances shrank before our eyes .
in the direction of the mainland , i could see the big city neatly laid out like a perspective map in the far distance .
buildings reflected the sun with a million glass eyed windows .
some roads were visible as a web of dull black threads .
the tangled maze of streets near the centre gave way to grid like suburbs on the outskirts .
detail evaporated into the distance , where a smoky heat haze hovered in a pall of grimy cloud above the streets , but the impression was complete .
my eye looked inexorably on and , for the first time , i could see beyond the big city to where the land lay in a great plain reaching for many miles inland .
to my wonder , i could see beyond the plain to distant mountains .
almost in the blur of the haze , but quite definite , i could make out the glimmer of snow caps glinting across the high ridges .
it was a view i would never forget .
after we had eaten we climbed once more to the summit .
i followed the horizon around , past the sweep of the mainland bays , until i was facing the opposite direction .
there the sea stretched , seemingly forever , and the horizon blended into the sky in a featureless azure arc .
we had stood in silence , gazing , when i realised that time was pressing on .
come on frank , i cried , we must find what we came for .
if we can , he replied .
i was sure that finders caves must be on the far side of the summit , towards newbridge .
in that direction , the coast was much nearer and the sea caves tunnelled inland .
we laboriously made our way down the far side of sgurr cavan .
it was difficult to pick out a path .
the scree was dense and treacherous and there were no streams to follow on this side of the summit .
there was no sign of any caves in the rocky terrain either .
a little lower down there were some cliffs where waterfalls of scree tumbled down .
it would be too dangerous to go there and i could not see how the rev .
finder could have gone that way .
we decided to descend below the cliffs to one side and try there .
working our way around we scrambled and scraped our way down to the edge of the high moors from where it was possible to approach the base of the cliffs .
there were many large boulders close to the far edge that offered shelter to what little vegetation grew there .
stunted and gnarled old trees , no larger than bushes , cowered beside the dark rocks , in the shadow of the wind .
tufts of grass and moss clutched at clefts and cracks between the stones .
we found numerous small openings behind the trees .
at each one we thought we had found the mouth of a cave , but each in succession proved to be little more than a deep depression in the rock .
suddenly , frank shouted across from between two boulders a little way down the slope .
in here , harry , i think i can hear water .
i ran across and crawled into the small gap .
the faint metallic chime of running water echoed up from deep below but nothing was visible .
its a long way down , he said .
there must be a cave here .
i think weve found it !
i whispered .
but how do we get in ?
lets look around , i said there might be a way in lower down .
clinging on to the edge of the slope i could feel my head lightening with the effect of vertigo .
we began to climb down the hillside but the rocks were difficult to negotiate .
scree and loose boulders covered the mountainous incline and rattled down in runnels beneath our feet .
the further down we struggled , the harder it became to retain a foothold or handhold .
i began to feel very unsafe .
we must have been two hundred feet below the summit but the way into the cave still eluded us .
lets go back up , shouted frank .
this is no good .
i dont think i can , this scree is too unstable .
as i replied , frank trod on another loose boulder and lost his footing .
he slid , tumbling down the hillside below me , surrounded by an avalanche of sharp grey grit .
i lay flat against the ground as small rocks washed past me .
looking down , i shouted to him .
frank , frank , where are you ?
but there was no reply .
when the dust had settled , there was no sign of frank he had disappeared .
i began to ease my way cautiously down , slowly , slowly , like a crab .
suddenly i saw it , and as i saw it , frank stood up .
the sliding scree had uncovered the entrance to a small cave and , miraculously , frank had dropped through into safety as the boulders bounded harmlessly by .
seconds later , i stood beside my friend , who , despite his torn clothes , was unhurt .
the cave entrance was small but opened out into a larger chamber .
the sun shone into the mouth of the cave and gave enough light to see back a little way .
we prepared to explore and i took out my torch .
our progress into the tunnel was slow at first , while we became used to the darkness and the cool echoing shadows .
i felt increasingly insecure in the deepening dark as we ventured out of sight of daylight .
often , i glanced back into the velvet black behind us .
when we spoke , it was in a low whisper , as if to avoid being overheard .
the magic of the cave slowly overcame our fear .
we entered a small passage that led towards the centre of the hill .
the tunnel was dropping down all the while .
the ancient walls had been carved from solid rock and i wondered if man or nature had made them .
we could hear the clink and drip of water all about us , while in the distance , but coming ever closer , was the sound of a running stream .
the passage twisted several times and seemed to be becoming smaller .
the roof was so low that we had to stoop to continue along the tunnel .
we did not feel lost , there was only one way to go and , after checking on the little compass , i found we were still heading towards the centre of the hill .
the passage ended suddenly and we found ourselves standing in a gallery looking into a black void .
the torch revealed the floor falling away below , mirroring the roof that curved above .
the torch beam was too weak to illuminate the full extent of the cavern we had entered .
we stood , awe struck by the enormity of the hollow mountain we had discovered .
the rock in the passageways had been dark and indistinct in colour and the walls of this cavern were the same .
but all was not dark .
high above us , a single shaft of sunlight blazed through a fissure in the roof .
perhaps it was the very crack we had first looked through ourselves .
the light beam pierced the blackness like a glowing rod and struck the further wall .
i gasped as i saw the place .
the wall was alive with radiance and colour .
the light cascaded about it like a furnace of brilliant jewels .
the dancing sparkling beams shone through a waterfall in myriad rainbows that reflected on the roof in rippling patterns cast by a large pool .
it was beautiful , but the thing that grasped my mind was the wall behind the pool , for there , at the point where the rainbows ended , was a massive eruption of liquid clear white crystal .
somewhere inside me i began to understand the mystery of mythras and the mountain .
we had found the white crystal and it was magical .
frank and i stood in the rocky gallery for a timeless moment , silently watching the display as it slowly changed .
the light from the sun could only shine through the fissure for a short time each day , and only for a small number of days each year .
we were privileged witnesses to a moving experience .
the secret of the hill would not have come to light had we been there on another day or at a different time .
it was easy to believe that some glorious fate had drawn us to the cavern .
i felt sure that mythras must have known about this place and the light window .
he must have come to the island to find this cave and to obtain his crystal .
i decided to take some for myself .
i would find out the secrets of mythras .
i awoke from the surreal dream that surrounded me and turned to frank .
i realised that time would cause the crystal to vanish as the light moved and i said in an excited whisper .
we must hurry , before the light goes .
i need the crystal .
frank did not question my desire .
with frank in the lead we crept down into the massive chamber and began to cross the floor towards our goal .
part way across the cavern , my foot stepped on something loose on a rock .
i shone my torch at the place and gasped involuntarily .
lying at my feet were the disjointed bones of a human skeleton .
i stooped and looked at the unfortunate victim .
there were no features of the former corpse left , but lying in some sand close by it were some coins .
i picked one up , the date on it was 1853 .
i put the coin in my pocket .
my mind was racing .
could this be the last resting place of the reverend finder ?
if so , then what had happened to lead him to his death ?
i looked down at the skeleton again .
the gaunt white arm lay stretched out and pointing towards the depths of the cavern .
the empty eye sockets stared into my face .
i stared back , transfixed by the vacant glare for a moment , before frank called me on .
i put the thoughts out of my mind and crossed the rocks to where frank stood by the edge of the pool .
the magic light was playing upon his face .
for some reason i felt unable to tell him about the skeleton i had found .
ill tell him later , i thought .
to reach the crystal we had to cross the pool , there was no way to go around it .
i knelt down and felt the icy water and shivered at the touch .
the pool was long but narrow .
the waterfall showered down into the centre and flowed sedately out at one end .
away from the waterfall , the pool was completely clear and by carefully shining the torch we could see where the bottom shelved deeply around the waterfall but appeared to be shallow close to the edge .
i will go , i said simply .
you hold the rope .
so saying , i took the rope out of my knapsack and frank uncoiled it while i took off my trousers , preparing to wade through the water .
i tied the rope about my chest below my arms .
we would take no risks here .
i stepped gingerly into the pool and the shocking cold water covered my skin it was like plunging into snow .
i could feel the smooth rock on the bare soles of my feet .
i felt a thrill run through me as i waded around the pool .
the spray of mist from the waterfall constantly bathed me and the water slowly rose up to my knees as i moved towards the crystal .
the pool was deeper where the overflow drained out and the strength of the current surprised me .
i stopped to brace myself against the flow before i ventured on .
the approach to the cascade of crystal took longer than i had expected .
the crystal extended under the water and the floor of the pool became angular and sharp with the facets of the remarkable stone .
all about me , the light seemed to float and flutter .
the crystal was so bright in the darkness that it was hard to look directly into it .
i became illuminated by the rainbows and was able to touch the stone at last .
i had hoped to find some loose pieces .
the stone was impressively hard to the touch .
it was as smooth and as sharp as glass but firmer and less brittle , like a clear flint .
i could not find any broken stone and took out the small hammer that i had brought with me in my bag .
i tested the sharp crystal with the blunt steel and a shower of electric blue sparks flew from the hammerhead .
i chose a point where the broken stone would not , i hoped , fall into the water .
i shielded my eyes with one arm and i struck the stone hard .
the crack of the hammer was like a gunshot and echoed into reverberation .
light scattered momentarily as a piece of the precious rock fell against me .
suddenly , with a squealing rush dozens of black shadows flew frantically whirling and flapping past .
my heart missed a beat .
it was just bats disturbed by the sound .
perhaps i should have taken it as an omen of the forces the stone would release .
i picked up the piece that had broken off .
the stone was cold , smooth and heavy .
it had perfect flat edges .
i laid it in my hand and looked at the glowing crystal .
it fitted snugly in my palm .
i could tell the light in the chamber was changing and fading fast .
i placed the hammer and the crystal in my bag and closed it securely before turning to make my way back .
in my excitement , i had forgotten the freezing water .
my legs were so numb that i could not feel my feet at all and i could barely move .
a moment passed when , in panic , i thought i was stuck in the cave .
with a great effort , i started to walk like a slow awkward automaton towards the shore where frank patiently waited .
i shouted to my companion to take up the slack and my small voice died in the vastness of the great chamber .
the journey back to where frank was standing took a long time .
my legs were not getting any warmer and i could feel my whole body shivering uncontrollably with the cold .
suddenly a shadow blocked the shaft of light and the cave pitched into blackness .
involuntarily , i looked up to where the window had been .
as the light returned i saw dislodged stone and dust floating down into the cave through the receding beams of light .
i felt an even deeper shiver pass through me .
what was up there ?
i was about twenty feet from the edge of the pool when the disaster struck .
i couldnt feel my feet and i missed my footing completely , plunging over the edge of an underwater shelf .
i lost balance and fell headlong into the icy cold darkness .
frank called out , harry !
the freezing liquid rushed into my mouth and nose , and i felt my head plunge below the surface .
in a shock of coldness , the icy water filled me up as my head struck the sharp rocky floor of the pool .
frank struggled with the rope .
at first it would not move at all .
only by clambering into the edge of the pool could he free the rope from the edge of the rocky shelf and pull me up above water .
with a tremendous effort i was pulled to the edge .
desperately , he dragged my cold , wet body out of the water .
frank knelt with limbs shaking , not just from cold .
wake up !
please wake up , i heard frank say in the distance .
then his voice seemed to come nearer .
i became aware that i was awakening , as though from a long deep dream .
i felt tired and wanted to pull my bed covers over me and go back to sleep .
i was so cold and my head ached .
the world became clearer , but the half darkness of the cave was a mystery to me .
i did not understand where i was until i turned over at last and looked up at the fading shaft of light high up in the chamber .
frank , i shouted feebly , are you all right ?
somehow , i thought that frank had been in some trouble , but my confusion soon gave way to the reality of the cold .
i raised myself slowly to my knees .
frank supported me as i struggled to re dress myself .
i felt nauseous and strangely light headed .
the realisation of my accident in the subterranean lake had infiltrated my numbed head and i felt angry with myself for falling .
the shivering cold began to subside as i covered myself in every layer of clothing i had .
my legs itched and ached with the distressing sensation of burning as the feeling returned .
we lifted our packs and slowly , and painfully , retraced our steps , past the silent witness of the skeleton , to the cave entrance .
with every step my head pounded and pain shot through my legs .
outside at last , we blinked stupidly at each other .
frank stared at my head and gasped .
harry , your head .
no , dont touch it .
well have to clean it up later .
the gash on my skull had left my hair matted with blood .
i was so cold and shocked i had not even felt it .
but in the late afternoon sun i felt the warmth at last and something inside me was deliriously happy .
i could not help myself and to franks astonishment i laughed aloud as i felt a fresh new freedom enter my heart .
the expedition had succeeded .
we would both remember the magical underground kingdom of crystal light for the rest of our days .
we both respected the memory and kept the secret forever .
the exhilaration of the moment and the warmth of the sun relieved my pain .
frank and i tumbled down the scree and landed in a rather ungainly fashion on firm ground .
we no longer felt any danger .
after our adventure in the cave the outside world seemed innocent and homely .
i stood up and dusted myself down .
suddenly , frank hissed and pointed up to the summit of sgurr cavan .
look , up there !
i looked up at the summit and glimpsed the silhouette of a man .
he was standing darkly outlined against the horizon .
he was a tall figure in a wide brimmed hat .
i blinked and looked again but he had gone .
who was that ?
asked frank .
the follower .
lets go , i replied , almost silently , the shadow of the man remained framed in my mind and i felt that he was strangely familiar .
we decided to return home quickly .
as we walked , i wondered about the skeleton i had seen , and about the reverend finder .
then my thoughts crossed to the follower and the man in the wide brimmed hat .
the form of the silhouette stayed in my minds eye .
was that the follower ?
the journey down sgurr cavan was uneventful .
we were both tired , especially me , and stayed quiet for a time .
when we spoke , it was of the past and other events .
even though it was all that filled our minds , neither of us mentioned our adventure in the cave .
we arrived back in oldford , i stopped at the gate to my house and turned to say good bye to frank .
harry , he said , i am going away .
what !
i exclaimed .
i didnt want to tell you , til today .
why ?
were going to the mainland to live .
i knew it would be soon .
were going next week .
were going to look at the place tomorrow .
good bye then , i said rather stupidly , and ... and thanks , for today .
frank turned and began to descend the hill as i watched from the gate .
at the corner he turned and waved , smiling .
the melancholy of the moment passed and i laughed again , rather weakly , waving back .
good bye , i called .
good bye , came the fading reply .
frank turned the corner .
it was to be years before i saw him on the island again .
i walked up the old flagstone path and pushed at the half open stable door .
i strode into the kitchen .
i must have looked a sight .
my mother shrieked when she saw me but scolded me as i laughed .
i told her some of the adventure but left out any reference to possible danger , or the skeleton .
she scolded me again but seemed satisfied as she cleaned up my bruised and gashed head and took away the bedraggled clothes .
i hid the precious white crystal and went to bed early .
i suddenly felt overwhelmingly tired .
climbing up the stairs i tumbled onto my bed and slept .
it came as no surprise when i awoke with a severe chill and remained in bed for nearly a week .
wild dreams infested my fever , and later my mother told me i babbled strange tales about crystal lights and caverns .
i smiled meekly but said nothing .
i did not like to leave the crystal where it might be found , and i carried it everywhere with me .
i kept it in a small leather pouch in my pocket .
i spent hours gazing into the strange and beautiful stone i had found .
i wondered how i could unleash the magical power that i thought it possessed .
sometimes , the crystal would catch the light and reflect a spectrum of colour .
sometimes , i found myself staring into the stone and forgetting everything around me .
i seemed to be drawn into the crystal like a waking dream and my head was filled by strange words spoken by an unknown voice i live in the stone , a world still apart , my life unknown , the earth my heart .
how many long years ever will be , mysterious traveller across the deep sea ?
stand clear in the dawn , the master of time , enter the caverns revealing the crime .
older than history , filled with strange light , touching cold mystery inside the deep night .
my thoughts are your deeds , each vision my sight .
my father told me that my friend frank had visited during my delirium to say good bye and that his family had departed to their new house .
i was saddened it was my first broken friendship .
here , i thought you might like this , my father said and he handed me a wooden box .
i remembered it after you asked about finder .
it belonged to him , i believe .
see it has an m carved on it .
i am sure i dont know what m is for , but it looks very old where was it ?
i asked in wonder as i held the precious casket and stared at the strange device inscribed on the lid .
in the study , he replied .
i used to keep paper clips in it , but i am sure you will find some better use for it .
thank you , thank you , i exclaimed and took the box up to my room to examine it .
i carefully laid the crystal in the box .
now it seemed whole again .
i also took the 1835 coin and cleaned it so it shone like new .
i put that in the box as well .
on the lid i looked at the carved m. m is for mythras , i thought .
the first day i ventured out of the house after my illness , i went downstairs as usual , but stopped short in the hall .
there was a picture on the wall by the door .
it was so familiar i had never really noticed it before .
staring down from the picture was the silhouette of a man in a wide brimmed hat .
i asked my father who was in the picture .
thats an old man from the island .
it came with the house .
his name was inchcape , peter inchcape .
i believe he was one of the elders , he replied .
i shuddered involuntarily and put on my coat and hat before going to the quay to see the ferry come and go .
the crystal was in my pocket as i sat down on the quayside .
the good weather had passed and the overcast sky was heavy with rain .
the clouds darkened by the minute and people went about their business grimly , not minding me .
all the while , i sat in my buttoned up jacket and i turned the heavy leather pouch over and over in my pocket .
the rain swept across the sea and obliterated the view .
i stood and walked to the shelter of the sea wall and sat on a bench in a sheltering niche .
the weather hammered down upon us and closed in about us , bringing thoughts to my mind of mythras and the storm .
i loosened the stone in the leather pouch and held it tightly in my hand .
the sharp , hard crystal filled my closed fist .
i recited the strange words that i had found at the front of the rev .
finders journal over and over like a mantra until the words ran into one another .
ego sum dominus temporis ego sum dominus temporis ego sum dominus temporis ego sum dominus temporis i heard the words murmuring round inside my head like the sound of chanting monks .
i found i was standing up .
i do not know why i did so , but then i made my wish upon the stone and walked slowly along the sea wall to the ferry pier .
the ferry was boarding and the passengers were walking swiftly up the steps through the ticket office to buy their tickets and board the boat .
i stepped up to the end of the line .
the rain was streaming down .
my pulse was pounding in my ears as i approached the boat , yet nobody spoke to me .
all the while i could hear the chant inside my mind .
i walked into the ticket office and stopped behind the last passenger as he bought his ticket .
still no one stopped me as i walked slowly through the booth and onto the boat itself .
the ticket inspector took the ticket from each passenger as they passed him , tore it in two and returned half .
i followed the queue and came up to the inspector .
he took the ticket from the man ahead of me and just before i approached he turned aside and shouted up to the bridge .
okay .
thats the last .
lets leave this storm behind .
the engines took on a new clamour and deckhands began to remove the ropes holding the gangway .
my heart was leaping as i turned and ran back down the gangway to the pier .
the complete lack of shouts or commotion was unearthly .
i stood absolutely still as the boat pulled away .
i couldnt believe it .
somehow , they didnt know i was there .
something had changed i wasnt there .
while i watched , a great black crow flew down and circled above my head .
involuntarily , i took the old coin from my pocket and looked at it again .
it shone brightly against the dark sky .
i heard a strange flapping and saw a brief darkness above me .
i put up my hand to shield my eyes from the huge crow as it swooped down upon me .
the great bird grasped the coin and wrenched it from between my fingers before speeding away through the rain and across the sea .
with a gasp , i stepped back to the edge of the wall and let go the stone in my pocket .
i was feeling nauseous and faint .
perhaps i was still unwell .
i sat down on the bench in the niche again .
i opened my eyes .
i felt strangely sleepy , as though awakening from a dream .
i looked up and saw ... but what was happening ?
the ferry had just started boarding !
had i dozed off was it just a dream ?
i felt in my pocket the coin was missing .
the same passengers walked up the gang plank as before .
the ferry moved off and i sighed in relief .
perhaps i should not have come out after all ?
i must have fallen asleep .
i stood up and walked quickly around the corner , straight into old eric .
his firm bony hand clasped my shoulder tight and spun me around to face him only inches away .
i could feel his rasping breath on my face .
where you goin in such a hurry , boy ?
no ... nowhere , i stuttered , stupidly .
he looked at me steadily , the rain dripping off his hat and coat .
you found that old crystal yet ?
he asked in his gruff smoky rasp .
no .
what do you mean ?
i lied .
you know what i mean , boy , he laughed .
where you been this week ?
i missed my young friend , and he relaxed his grasp .
ill in bed .
ah !
an i thought you had disappeared into sgurr cavan , he said and his eyes looked fiercely from under the brim of his old hat .
look , i must be going .
im late for breakfast , i shouted above the din of wind and rain .
he drew me close and said .
not so fast , lad .
just you remember , them old stones are all temptation .
they aint bad in themselves , mind .
but i can tell ee , theyre old .
they dont run to our laws , oh no .
he pulled me closer still and stared into my eyes .
i wanted to turn away but couldnt .
and another thing , boy .
them stones are only for here , for suidhe .
they dont do nothing over there , and he pointed across the water as he spat the words out .
always seek the truth , boy .
you wont ever find them stones , but they might find you and if they do , dont tell a soul .
no , dont even tell old eric .
theres people on this island and elsewhere who can still remember the laws of the elders .
they dont want any magicians here again .
always seek the truth , boy .
remember mythras lad .
remember i tells you .
he let go of my shoulder .
but how does the crystal work ?
i asked .
another time boy , another time , he replied giving me a staring glance .
here , he said , i found this at home .
thought you might like it .
he thrust a coin into my hand .
i looked at it .
the date on it was 1853 , just like the one i had found in the hill and so recently lost , only dull .
i started to speak but he put his finger to his lips and said , not a word , boy .
not a word .
old eric turned to go .
i watched the old sea dog walk along the quay into the wind and rain , and then i ran off up the hill to my home .
chapter four the double cross the ancient , stalwart house was as massive as a castle .
cold stone floors echoed the sound of the thunder in rumbling peals through the great rooms .
a torrential shower of rain obscured the view from the windows .
high walls flared electric white as the lightning crackled past , close by .
the storm had cut all power and the grey , monstrous building lay in shadow .
mullioned windows , set high above the ground , pierced the stone walls .
slate roofs stretched up into the gloom .
shaggy masses of moss carpeted the tiles and old twining creepers fanned their fingers across the walls .
the outlines of the turrets and towers were half hidden by the mists and streaming rain .
this eerie abode hugged the lower slopes of a tree covered hillside in the foothills of the snowy mountains .
range upon range of ever higher hills , precipice upon precipice , piled up behind it .
somewhere in the distance there were high , snow covered peaks capped with icy white , even in the height of summer .
the evening storm had driven inland across the plains and was rattling through the hills to mark the end of that long , hot summer .
water filled the gullies and smoothed the cracked baked clay .
the tired streams began to flow with brown , creamy , frothing liquid .
the earth breathed and the sweet smell of rain soaked soil smothered the fields .
all around , the water released new perfumes from the pine woods where wild herbs scented the undergrowth .
fungi mushroomed up overnight through the woody tilth .
the creatures of the world took shelter in the woods , hedges and holes .
the violence of the opening scene gave way to a gentler play .
a new , softer rain caressed the countryside with its cooling feathery touch .
life returned to the fields and forests brown turned to green .
everywhere , leaves were dripping and the burnt umber of parched earth received the abundance in heaving sighs of gratitude .
the hill farmers in their farmhouses slept with smiles upon their faces while , in their dreams , they fixed the plough and tilled the red ochre soil , or scythed the lush grass ready for the changing year to come .
high on the hill , with the electric light restored , the old house seemed to cast a softer shadow than before .
no sinister murk adorned the lofty towers .
instead , the dull grey limestone was friendly and welcoming in the shower .
the ages of time lay easily in the stones , even as the builder had intended , twenty generations before .
this hilly place , was the source of the streams that fed the tributaries that led to the rivers that snaked through the plains .
a wild world still ruled below the shadows of the mountains .
wolves roamed the deep woods searching for lost sheep .
bears hunted for the sweet honey from the bees nests and searched out quiet caves for their winter sleep .
the rocks trembled here , from time to time , sending avalanches of scree washing down the valleys like dark chattering rivers of stone .
the wilful rocks heaved while the mountain building continued .
it was only possible to traverse the inhospitable snowy mountains for a few months each summer .
the old drove road climbed through the great pass that wound its way up above the tree line , and snaked between the high peaks , where the air was thin and the eagle flew alone in the sky .
there were no towns and few people in the mountains .
here was the home of an ancient tribe hidden away in the remote valleys .
the people were simple but tough .
they farmed the sheep and goats on the hilly pastures below the tree line .
the shepherds brought their sheep into the hills each spring and took them back to the lower valleys when late autumn approached .
they were the only true people of the hills and lived solitary , almost silent lives .
they moved from shelter to shelter , with their grazing sheep .
the shepherds would rejoin their families in the winter , where they lived together in small hamlets in the foothills .
erebos , the large house , built so long ago by a rich city man , lay at the edge of one of the shepherd hamlets .
it was a summer palace for his escape .
it had been empty and derelict for many years , a place where snakes and bears found shelter .
one day , it took the interest of a man with the desire to live apart from other men .
he was old but not yet tired .
he had been a traveller for many years .
he felt the need to seek out where nature held her power and , in that place , close to the mountains , he felt that something older than man still controlled the earth .
this eccentric man ignored the shepherds and , in time , their mild curiosity waned .
the people came to know him as the old man of the mountain but his true name , sicarius , was known only to him .
when he needed a name he called himself dr. wolfe .
he lived there many years and gathered herbs in the woods and minerals in the valleys .
he walked the hills and made charts and notes of all that he observed .
this curious man filled the great house with his collections .
he had the service of a number of short , swarthy strangers who had arrived from far away lands .
they spoke in a foreign tongue and kept apart from all but themselves .
every week , a cart brought supplies up the valley to provide for this small household .
the small community survived unchanged for many years .
occasionally , dr. wolfe would go away , sometimes for months , and the house closed but he always returned .
the few who saw him , remarked that he never appeared to be older and yet no one could place his age .
he seemed to be a timeless man .
the bleak outward appearance of the house was deceptive .
the principal rooms were furnished comfortably , tastefully and with obvious expense .
the suites of rooms on the upper floors were equally luxurious , with every modern contrivance available .
why so many rooms were available for use , and yet remained empty , was a mystery to those who knew of their existence .
dr. wolfe ran his estate with methodical and perfectionist zeal .
he maintained the buildings and land to an exceptional standard .
within the lower floors of the great house there were secrets known only to one .
many crates and packages filled the storerooms and vaults beneath the main building .
shelves lined the walls of some rooms .
there were rows of carefully labelled boxes stacked ceiling high .
the labels were written in a strange language and coded with complex numbers .
they concealed all they contained .
the meticulous collector kept the doors to the rooms locked , unless he was present .
erebos had foundations in the stone of the hills .
behind the doors of the deepest vault was a wide passageway that led to a wall of solid rock , containing a doorway .
within the stone arch , the door was made from a material with the appearance of stone and the smoothness of glass .
there was no handle or lock apparent on the exterior surface the door opened by a hidden mechanism .
beyond the door lay the workings of an old mine .
the passageways hewn from the rock needed no support .
the old man spent many hours behind that closed door , in the depths of the hill .
a strange new symbol , a double cross in silver on a green background , replaced the coats of arms that had once adorned the outside of the house and gates .
the motto , which encircled the symbol , read ego sum dominus temporis .
the same device marked every box and package in the stores .
in the library , a complete shelf full of large leather bound books had the symbol tooled onto the spines and covers .
every item of furniture and glassware , pottery , tools , cutlery and implement possessed the same identifying mark , either in ostentatious decoration or as a subtle insignia .
the sign of the double cross was all embracing within the walls of the estate .
the morning after the storm , dr. wolfe stood on the topmost tower of his great house and looked out across the world .
the rain had washed clean the air and given it the clarity of crystal .
on the horizon the morning sun caught the receding showers beneath the arc of a rainbow .
dr. wolfe wore a tattered cloak embroidered with the double cross .
his flowing white hair blew in the morning breeze , but the old face looked troubled .
he seemed to be searching the far horizon for something .
in one hand he held a long staff capped with silver in the other he held a box .
a long time passed and he did not move but stood silently watching and waiting .
a solitary black speck appeared on the horizon and moved swiftly towards the tower .
the small black bird swept across the skies and grew into a great crow that landed upon the highest roof of the house .
it looked down , with black eyes over a black beak , at the old man .
the bird uttered a single broken croak and dropped something gleaming from its beak before it gathered itself up and flew off , back towards the horizon .
dr. wolfe turned to go and walked to the stairway .
before he went down , he spoke quietly , but in a strong and steady voice .
the time has come , at last , as he strided down the stairs .
in the days that followed , the house became a place of great activity .
servants prepared the guest rooms .
they folded and stowed the dust sheets .
transports arrived carrying supplies of food and drink .
the small household expanded with the arrival of a dozen new helpers all appeared to be countrymen to the existing staff .
the staff never talked while they were working .
they remained mute until evening when , down in the hot kitchens , they babbled together in their strange tongue .
it was clear that the house was being prepared for a number of guests , but the old man was not to be seen .
he had made his way through the smooth stone door into the old mines .
far above the house , on the hillside , acrid smoke rose up from unseen fissures .
when all was ready , the old man stood in the courtyard at first light , and welcomed his guests .
each one had journeyed separately .
they arrived on foot from the forests and the hills .
all had travelled for a great distance and appeared as dishevelled shepherds , wearing old grey cloaks over tough leather jerkins .
dr. wolfe stood at the gate as the first approached .
welcome , he said with outstretched arm , it is indeed good to see you after such a long time .
do come in .
you are the first to arrive .
dr. wolfe , replied his guest , firmly shaking his hand , it has been a long journey and i am pleased to be here at last .
there were six in all .
five came at intervals during the day and slipped quietly through the gates .
one arrived by dead of night , as the old man stood waiting by the ancient porch .
he greeted each traveller in the same fashion as neither equal nor yet as their superior , but as one who stood apart , a civil host .
the servants escorted them to their quarters .
but all night a torch blazed by the door and the old man waited patiently for the one who would never come .
dr. wolfe and his guests assembled in the dining hall , at midday , for a meal .
it was one week after the rains had begun .
the scene was magnificent .
pale light filtered in through the stained glass windows and spread coloured patterns across a table set for a banquet .
the servants carried beautifully prepared dishes from the kitchens .
waiters dressed in a handsome livery of blue and silver served the meal .
the six guests sat opposite each other , three in a row , while the old man occupied the head of the table .
there was an empty place laid at the foot of the table .
the guests no longer wore country clothes but dressed in striking garments .
each one was different in colour , but all were to the same design .
they appeared very like the uniforms of generals from former generations , with embroidered waistcoats and coloured sashes .
the six had transformed their unkempt hair and unshaven faces to emerge as strong , sophisticated , yet wise men the lords of the double cross .
they were an ancient order who usually eschewed excess and finery in favour of research and philosophy .
but occasionally they met in formal guise and pursued the work of the elders .
the colour of the garments matched the titles of the lords the blue lord of truth , the red lord of knowledge , the emerald lord of friendship , the purple lord of destiny , the violet lord of faith and the gold lord of freedom .
dr. wolfe wore white and he also dressed as a lord the white lord of reason .
there was one other , not with the company mythras , the lord of mystery who had no colour .
together , they made the strength of eight , the lords of the double cross .
they came from far and wide across the land , some from across the sea , where they , like dr. wolfe , had studied the deeper arts of life and nature .
the meal extended through the afternoon , with much conversation of travels , exploits and distant places .
although they rarely met together the company seemed at ease and hearty as they withdrew to a parlour close by .
there they indulged in beverages made from herbs and fruits from the mountains enhanced with spices from distant lands .
the usually silent old man , their host , had become animated and lively .
a long time passed in convivial conversation before the old man stood up , glass in hand , and spoke to them all .
my friends , i have asked you here with a purpose in my mind , his voice became serious and slow .
it is the time for us to act .
i fear the white crystal has been found .
the assembled six attended earnestly as the old man continued .
we know of one who holds the knowledge and the fact of the white crystal , it is no longer a legend to him .
we are not purveyors of magic or suspicion .
yet it seems that the science of this thing acts just as a magic .
it is beyond our understanding and so it is a dangerous thing .
the one who has this crystal undoubtedly believes in magic , undoubtedly thinks he is the master of it .
now , he has tried the magic and succeeded where others have failed .
he thinks he has discovered the secret of this stone !
we can not leave him to use this power alone , and his voice rose as he spoke .
it is too dangerous , for him and for us .
we must bring him here and the white crystal must be safe guarded .
nobody else may know of this thing or the balance of our world will surely be undone !
he thundered .
the company murmured together uneasily .
the six lords looked towards their silent companion who stood before them , quiet now , in grim contemplation .
the white lord continued we only know who we are and how to live because we have a place in time .
but what of mythras , for we need his guidance in this mystery ?
the blue lord stepped forward and spoke in a deep and measured voice .
i , too , have news which i bring from the council of the elders .
mythras is dead and the elders have elected you , if it is your wish , the white lord , the lord of reason , to take his place , to be mythras the lord of mystery , from this day .
i bring with me the token of that office .
the blue lord stood back in line with the others and waited for dr. wolfe to speak .
such things come but once in a lifetime .
the elders in their wisdom have chosen wisely .
i accept the office from this moment .
tell them that dr. wolfe returns thanks and i take the token of office into my safe keeping .
mythras is dead and yet he lives .
the blue lord handed a small wooden box with the symbol of the double cross inlaid on the lid .
dr. wolfe held the box and spoke again to issue the first order of his new authority .
now it is i who must take the matter forward .
we must all prepare to journey again .
go to your rooms and we will meet together in one hour in the chamber of the moon .
at the appointed time , the seven gathered in a small chamber high in a tower .
it was no ordinary room but painted deep blue with wide windows on seven of the eight walls .
they sat around an old octagonal table and dr. wolfe spoke .
i will tell you now , something of the history behind this thing , he said , so you may decide with me on our path into the future .
long ago , the council of the elders appointed one as mythras who was not worthy .
he was a necromancer and very wise , but within , he was rotten with ambition .
this man had become mythras by virtue of his great knowledge of the mysteries , which were undoubted and also because he claimed to have found a new science , the secret of temporal change .
simply put , the power over time itself .
the council of the elders foresaw that if he could indeed control time , he would also be very powerful and possibly dangerous .
that is why they appointed him to be mythras , in order that he would be bound by the rule of the lords of the double cross to always serve them and to preserve the good of our world .
they devised the strength of eight to ensure that others would always be aware of mythras and his activities .
they had no certainty of whether the mysteries claimed by mythras were true and the records showed they thought it unlikely to be more than a magicians trick .
the council also saw that the power which mythras had claimed could be used for good as well as for evil , and should it be true , they desired to have the use of that science for their own ends .
the council commanded the lords of the double cross to watch mythras and to discover if he did possess the secret , as he had insisted .
mythras had determined that there was a science to the illusion of temporal change and that a particular material could be manufactured that would create the effect he desired .
in this i think he was correct .
however , although he knew the formula for his magic , he did not possess the substance .
he journeyed through all the known world and tested every material he could find .
he built a laboratory and tried to create the perfect substance from the raw materials around him .
he used cauldrons of molten lava collected from active volcanoes and distilled pure substances from precious stones , but all to no avail .
the science of the world was many centuries behind his thought and his attempts to synthesise the substance were in vain .
what exactly do you mean by temporal change ?
asked the blue lord .
we do not know for sure but the effect was to change the pace of time .
clocks could be made to work forwards or backwards , or not at all .
this may have seemed a trick at first , but to those who experienced it , the effect proved very real and unbalancing .
with such events , many things become possible .
the seemingly impossible can be attained .
replied dr. wolfe .
there was a tremor of excitement in his usually controlled voice .
did this man ever succeed in his quest ?
asked the gold lord .
i have always believed that he did , although it has never been proven , thus our dilemma .
we only have accounts of a travelling magician , accounts handed down over many generations and , no doubt , much altered and embroidered across the years .
he was a pioneer and many pioneers have perished at the hands of their science .
indeed , if he did succeed , he may have entered an impossible circumstance and perished .
he necessarily worked alone .
he claimed the material he required was a specialised crystal , a kind of timing master , which could not be synthesised from earthly materials .
but he gave no hint where or how it might be found .
in these days we use quartz crystals to regulate time , so maybe there is a clue in that .
but he fell from favour .
the council of the elders eventually stripped the man of his office .
the records show that the council felt he could not achieve his claim at that time and he was outcast as a charlatan .
the man went journeying and became a travelling magician , little more than an entertainer .
however , the council did not trust him and always sent a follower after him , wisely as it turned out .
many years passed and the travelling magician eventually went to the island named suidhe , off the coast from the big city and it was there that he disappeared .
did he never re appear ?
the blue lord questioned .
the magician never re appeared in the same guise .
but years later an old and very wealthy man died on the mainland .
amongst his possessions , which were many and had been gathered from all the known world , and some of the world not then known , was this house .
it was left in his will to the leader of the council of the elders .
the will still exists and i have seen it .
the paragraph relating to this house had a note attached which was addressed specifically to the council and stated , in a very rambling fashion , that the house contained the thing that the council had looked for all through the years .
in short , it was inferred , the magic crystal was here .
if the magic stone was found , asked the emerald lord , then why do you now believe it has fallen into other hands ?
has it been stolen ?
no .
the white crystal was never found in this house .
it has never been in our possession , but we do believe that it is the thing we thought .
indeed , according to the will , there was more than one white crystal there were eight , one for each of us .
for many years i have searched for the white crystals and the knowledge of the power they supposedly possess .
in this i have failed , but i have also tried to find the formula of the material in question .
it seems , however , that the ability to explicate the science contained in the stones died with the old man .
a lifetime of search and research has failed to reveal any method of temporal change .
it is , after all , illogical .
but much that seems illogical can be found in nature .
until we understand it , it appears as magic .
our forbears had no understanding of electricity , or lightning or magnetism or the elements of science .
they explained them with myths and imagination .
whole religions would be devised to explain the circumstances of our world and our place within it .
such knowledge can be hard to shift and legend can be mistaken for truth .
i prefer the fact of research and the understanding of science .
through this i know that the magician did not make these crystals , he found them .
where did the magician find the white crystal ?
asked the red lord .
that we do not know in certainty , replied dr. wolfe .
we believe that the crystals were found somewhere on suidhe , where the magician disappeared .
indeed , we believe that they are the key to his disappearance .
but , alas , despite our many enquiries and searches on the island we have never found the source , if indeed there is one .
i have looked there myself .
the history of those days has become legend and unreliable .
the clues that might have led us to the place were all lost or destroyed in a great storm .
then the great war led to many years of darkness and the elders were obliged to move their attentions elsewhere .
what is it that now makes you sure that a white crystal has been found ?
questioned the gold lord .
there is still one man on the island who remembers something of the elder days and who helps us from time to time , replied dr. wolfe .
he tells us that there is a boy on the island who has made a discovery recently .
he believes the discovery is the crystal .
if the boy stays on the island we can be sure of controlling this thing .
but it is just a short journey to the big city .
a teenage boy is vulnerable to many temptations .
we must find the boy quickly and be sure of his safety , for you know that there are others in the world , with ambitions for power , who would wish to find him .
the gold lord looked up .
what others ?
he asked .
i inferred before that there are people out there with strong and strange belief .
they are fanatic and claim these things for their own .
they are dangerous and evasive .
they are descended from the original follower sent by the council .
if the white crystal is found we must determine from whence it came and then protect it for the sake of future generations .
we must protect the boy and keep the others at bay .
the ancient and the modern will play upon the fields of time before we are through with this , unless i am much mistaken .
so saying , dr. wolfe turned to the gold lord and gave him some papers tied in a scroll .
these maps and papers will help you to find the boy from the island .
you must leave by first light and seek him .
choose one other to accompany you and make your preparations .
the gold lord chose to take the emerald lord on the mission .
they both left the room and returned to their chambers for the night .
the violet lord and the purple lord will return to the council of the elders and inform them of what has come to pass this day .
you will also inform the council that we will take action to safeguard the secrets known only to us .
we must protect ourselves and all our people .
there will be danger until the boy is secure .
without speaking , the purple lord and the violet lord turned together and prepared to leave the great house .
within the hour , the two men had again appeared in the courtyard .
they were dressed in grey brown coats and dark leather hats .
they would pass as common travellers .
they walked through the gates , turned from the path and separated .
they soon vanished in the mists that hung in hazy vaporous curtains across the valleys .
there is one other duty , said dr. wolfe , which is perhaps the most dangerous duty to perform .
he turned to the remaining two lords and looked at them , silently , for a moment .
what is the duty ?
asked the red lord .
you must go and find the others of whom we spoke , replied dr. wolfe .
those others who would also seek the white crystal .
it will not be easy and we do not wish to alert them .
they are ruthless men .
look for three .
two are the paid thugs but the third is the key .
he will be harder to find .
i do not think they will yet know of our concerns but they know about the boy .
they , too , have their informants and they will be sure to be looking for this person .
you must go from here and divert their gaze until we have time to secure the future for us all .
are you willing to do this ?
we are ready , the lords replied .
but what of you , dr. wolfe ?
what of the white lord ?
what of mythras ?
i will remain here , there are other tasks to perform .
so far , the omens are good and we thank you , so saying dr. wolfe placed his hands on the shoulders of the other men then he turned and left the room .
the night passed and , before the sun had cast the first shadows of the day , the red lord and the blue lord left the house .
they slipped silently away , unseen , into the woods , each going his own way towards the future .
they would travel to the place where other powers lived the big city .
before they left , dr. wolfe bade them farewell and gave them each a small book of verses .
often in our order , words have provided solutions when all else fails .
these lines will be of use to you in times of trouble , they come from the elder days , he said .
read them when you can .
the old man of the mountain , dr. wolfe , the white lord of reason who had become mythras , lord of mystery , stood steeped in thought and silence .
after his companions had left he went into the library and consulted many old books , making notes and drawing diagrams .
he finished his tasks and took refreshment before he walked down to the cellars and approached the stone door .
the door swung open and , from within the dark passages , coolness filtered out .
dr. wolfe entered the tunnel and the door closed behind him .
he turned on a string of lights that illuminated a long narrow passageway through the mountain .
the old man strode forward and , after a short distance , the passageway curved sharply to the right and downhill .
the sense of direction was soon lost as the tunnel spiralled further and deeper down .
the coolness of the upper galleries gave way to an acrid , uncomfortable smell that pervaded everywhere below .
the rock walls changed colour from light brown to grey to a metallic deep magenta .
dr. wolfe walked on steadily , his footsteps echoing as he descended .
there was another noise it slowly became louder .
it was a deep muffled pumping sound .
the passage had , by this time , dropped far below the base of the mountain and the spiral tunnel eventually ended at a second door .
the door opened ahead of the old man and he entered a cavern .
a livid red glow leapt out from within .
in this chamber , the deep slow pulse was all pervasive and , coupled to the high hiss of escaping steam , it sounded like a giant , slow steam engine .
dr. wolfe moved forward across the sweltering space .
it was the size and shape of a small ship .
the smell of sulphur hung in the air and small clouds of steam issued vaporously from hidden vents .
the cavern was not empty all about lay irregular masses of globular rock .
to one side there were pipes , presses , chimneys and workbenches gathered around a laboratory .
in places , great rock pillars stretched up to the roof ledges and platforms jutted out from the walls and at the centre there was a monstrous pit .
it was from this fissure that the red glow emerged and it was to this point that dr. wolfe threaded his way .
the centre of the cavern was intensely hot .
dr. wolfe reached the edge of the chasm and stood on a high rock , which was carved to look like a giant lectern that overhung the cauldron .
he looked down into the opening .
the glare of molten rock reflected on his white robes .
this was the reason for the house built on the mountain .
this was the forge that the first owner had hoped would yield the magic of temporal change , a heat with the strength to melt rock , to totally destroy and to make anew .
the tumult within the furnace was loud and the molten rock was boiling , leaping up and crashing back through the crusty red surface .
dr. wolfe noted that the lava was more active than he had seen it before , too active .
he turned to leave there could be no experiments that day .
swiftly , he made his way back across the chamber and through the door .
just as the door was closing , he heard and felt the blast of an explosion from within the chamber .
he dropped to the floor as the mighty rock door slammed shut behind him .
beneath his feet he felt a faint tremor in the rock and , for the first time in his life , dr. wolfe was scared .
he was a powerful man amongst men , but to the powers contained within the earth , men are insignificant .
the substance of rock and energy , that is the core of the planet , is part of a greater scheme of things it is a part of the cosmos .
quickly , dr. wolfe returned along the passageway to the house and sealed the great stone door .
outside he stopped and drew breath .
even the earth seemed to sense the time for change was at hand .
there were no further tremors that day and dr. wolfe contented himself with planning for the future .
the future at that moment seemed uncertain , but the thought of the six wise lords moving towards their allotted places filled his mind with hope .
dr. wolfe sat in his library surrounded by the shelves of ancient books .
two cats , one black , one white , lay curled up on chairs , one at each end of the room .
on the table beside him was a well thumbed volume .
it was a hand written journal .
he opened it to a marked page and read the words again .
a day will come when i , mythras , will return .
many signs will portend that day .
do not look for me .
i will find you all through the white crystal .
he closed the book and said , mythras , the ancient fool !
he picked up the small wooden box he had received from the elders of the double cross upon his investiture .
he placed it on the table .
he unlocked the casket with an intricate brass key and lifted the lid .
inside , there was a miniature scroll , a gold badge and a sealed letter all inscribed with the double cross .
he took the letter and unfolded the crisp vellum paper .
the letter read to dr. wolfe , the white lord of the double cross , at erebos , mythras has passed away and it is time to elect a new lord to this honour .
into your hands we have placed the key and into your hands we place the trust of the elders of the council .
you will henceforth carry the name mythras , the lord of mystery , to all those in our company .
you shall nominate a new white lord to join the double cross and complete the strength of eight .
you will maintain our secrets at all times and pursue our aims with vigour .
the council will provide the means to carry out your task .
once a year , or at our bidding , you will sit with us in council to undertake the business of the company .
we welcome you , mythras lord of mystery .
signed this 21st elder day the chief elder of the council of elders of the company of the double cross .
dr. wolfe poured himself a glass of claret and a thin smile played upon the his lips as he closed the casket .
he allowed himself a small laugh and sat back in satisfaction .
he saw further than others of his company .
all the long years of work and study were at an end .
the inevitable would come to pass a future that even now was drawing near .
his time had come and his patience , the years of waiting and watching , had been rewarded .
he picked up a coin from the table and looked at it closely .
the date inscribed on the coin was 1853 .
i will not make the mistakes of my infamous predecessor , he said aloud .
the cats stirred and eyed their master .
i , sicarius mythras , will achieve my ambition .
he spoke the words quietly , firmly and with a taint of menace .
chapter five the big city the clock ticked loudly in my room .
i went to bed but i could not sleep .
i threw the bedclothes off and lay there , staring wide eyed into the darkness .
i got up and paced about the room .
often , i went over to the window and looked out across the sea towards the mainland .
i opened the window wider to try and catch a breeze , but the air was still and heavy .
a storm was rising in the distance rain would soon be coming .
clouds veiled the far away coast that i so wanted to see .
three times i went to bed and three times i rose again .
i felt excited .
i had a feeling inside me that i had never experienced before a half nervous tension , a strange smiling power , deep within , that made me tremble with exhilaration .
i imagined myself walking on the water , over the sea to the mainland .
time appeared to have stopped that night , as i walked around the small room .
the clock moved so slowly .
my mind was racing and thoughts flashed into my head even as the lightning and a distant rumble filtered through the window .
the curtains fluttered in the breeze that heralded the storm to come .
the tense clouds seemed to infiltrate my feelings and in a flash i decided i will go .
i went to the cupboard and pulled out my old duffel bag .
i stopped what should i take ?
in a few minutes i had filled it with warm clothes from the drawer and some biscuits from the kitchen .
the first drops of heavy rain sputtered onto the glass as i crept silently back to my room .
i went to bed for the fourth time that night .
the sound of thunder reverberated in my ears but i did not listen .
i felt satisfied and calm and this time i slept .
i awoke at five oclock in the morning .
the air was clear but everything outside was heavy with the nights rain .
excited and scared , i was determined to go through with my plan .
the day was the third of september , a saturday morning .
the boat will be less crowded on a weekend , i thought .
quickly and quietly , i dressed and put all the money i had , not much , into my wallet and collected my things .
then , i wrote a quick note to my father gone out on an adventure , back before bedtime , and placed it on the mantelpiece in the dining room , before going quietly back upstairs .
i crept out of the window and jumped to the rocky bank behind the house where i landed silently on the soggy wet moss .
i knew that no one else would be awake to see me .
the early morning outside was cool , fresh and beautiful .
the dawn was rising , and the clouds were rosy over the horizon , as i walked swiftly down the deserted street .
the harbour , too , was still empty and quiet .
it was almost high tide and the full grey sea was rolling slowly along the base of the harbour wall .
a few gulls rode lazily on the waves a flotilla of grey and white with black marble eyes that watched me as i passed .
the old harbour walls , built from boulders and rough hewn stone , sat squat , heavy and strong .
i did not know what i was going to do but was sure that something would get me to the mainland .
i found a place to hide away in one of the niches and settled down to wait .
i had determined not to hold the white crystal until i needed to board the boat .
i was confident i would succeed .
fresh banks of clouds slid silently across the dome of the sky and shut out the beautiful delicate pale blue .
a new morning replaced the old it was grey and damp with a hint of autumn in the air , carried on a cooling breeze .
the peace of the island was all around me as i sat in the stony alcove beneath the harbour wall .
looking about me , i listened all was quiet except the slow slosh of the sea and the sound of the wind in my ears .
the excitement and danger that i had felt when i woke up had dissipated and in its place i felt calm , even happy .
i realised , sitting there and determined to leave , that this island was my true home and a good place to live .
i felt the emotion of belonging holding me to the island like a strange magnetism .
an hour passed , during which time the harbour slowly came to life .
men came to work .
i could hear them , familiar voices , as they prepared the landing stage for the ferry .
across the waves , the as yet unseen boat was approaching from the mainland .
one of the men saw me sitting by the wall and waved to me .
i was a part of the scenery now and people expected me to be there .
i waved back while the hand in my pocket fingered the pouch holding the precious stone .
i continued my vigil and , in the distance , i caught sight of a solitary figure .
he was standing close by the empty old house that perches on the cliffs high on the hill , above the far side of the harbour .
he stood very still , looking down at the boats and i wondered who he was .
was he looking at me ?
i looked down at the sea and saw the ferry come into view through the harbour entrance .
the rusty black hull ploughed through the water leaving a white foamy wash rippling across the slow murky waves .
black exhaust stained the air above the short stubby red funnel as the captain manoeuvred his vessel up the channel between the swinging buoys .
the thrubbing of the ferrys engines grew louder as the small ship rounded the harbour wall and drew up alongside the quay .
the engines revved roughly in reverse and the water surged around the hull .
men called out and secured the ropes to bollards on the quayside .
gently , the boat eased in to a rest , the engines stopped and the harbour was quiet again .
saturday was a rest day and only a trickle of passengers crossed from the ferry to the landing stage .
i counted six men in all .
the dock workers were busy for an hour afterwards , unloading the grey sacks of post and pallets of cargo onto waiting trailers .
when the hold was empty they began to stow the boat with crates of fish , farm produce and other parcels destined for the big city .
the weather had turned foul and the dark clouds had blanketed the sky into a repressive gloom .
rain poured down punctuated by the sound of more thunder rolling in across the sea .
a handful of passengers had arrived to board the ferry and they stood sheltering from the teeming rain in a small shelter on the dock .
i recognised them all and took care to remain out of sight .
i waited until the crew raised the boarding sign and the first passengers went through the small wooden ticket office and up the gangway onto the deck .
by now the quayside was almost deserted .
the incessant rain swept in squally pulses across the docks .
the shelter of the alcove was ineffectual and i was soon dripping and cold .
i could not see any crew or passengers looking out from the boat .
if i was to get on board , i would have to act now .
i slipped the crystal from its leather pouch and into the palm of my hand .
i repeated the same spell as before .
ego sum dominus temporis .
three times i said it and the same strange , sleepy , drugged feeling came over me .
i picked up my duffel bag and moved out into the gloom of the day .
i could feel my brow prickly and flushed with sweat as i stepped on to the quayside .
i was trembling as i walked towards the ticket office .
hail and rain poured in torrents .
the sky was a mass of dark boiling cloud .
it was strangely dark , even for a stormy day .
i reached a spot a few yards from the barrier .
i stopped .
i could not move .
the thunder was all around the town .
the final passenger had already boarded ahead of me .
my head felt heavy but looking up i could see several passengers and crew looking out straight at me .
my nerve was shattered .
i was shivering and about to turn and run away .
suddenly , there was rending explosion .
the air crackled with white heat as the lightning struck .
the air filled with steam .
i was deaf .
i was blind .
i could feel my whole body vibrate and hum .
i think i may have screamed .
my head pounded .
i was overtaken by a dark panic as all thought left me and i ran and ran straight ahead .
some vision returned .
i could see again , just shadows , as i rushed towards the vessel .
distant muffled sound echoed in my ears .
someone on deck was shouting .
people in the saloon were crowded round the windows looking out to where i had been standing just seconds before .
i ran straight past the ticket office just as two officers from the ship crashed down the gangway and out to the quay .
i did not stop .
i ran on and up until i was out on deck , hoarse and shivering with shock .
the rain streamed down my face and filled my eyes .
i was alone .
my shaking hands could barely grip the deck rail as i turned and looked back to the quayside .
the two ships officers were bending over something on the quay and others were running across from the town .
it looked like a body lying on the ground .
for a long time nothing happened .
then some of the men stood away and were earnestly talking as i stared out through the gloom .
the two officers returned slowly towards the ferry as more people came from the town .
another flash of lightning drew my eyes to the hills where the sharp silhouette of a figure stood in the storm .
i shrank back under a gangway on deck where there was shelter amongst ropes and canvas .
suddenly , i felt impossibly tired .
i sat down on an old tarpaulin and closed my eyes .
when i first opened my eyes , i panicked .
i was nowhere .
everything was white .
perhaps i was dead .
no , this was the boat , the ferry .
this was where i had sat down .
it was all right .
i was stiff and cold but crawled out of my hiding place .
clouds encircled the boat and everything seemed close and vague in the fog .
it was a wet , murky dream world where reality had disappeared .
i felt completely alone and the only sounds were the muffled grumble of the engines and the screeching of the gulls .
the visibility had reduced to a few feet and a strange white light enveloped everything .
the fog curtailed my senses and i began to wonder if i had boarded a ghost ship .
but the only ghost on board was me .
my head hurt terribly and i felt nauseous .
all i could do was to press myself back into my hiding place and sit there shivering .
every few minutes i caught myself muttering ego sum dominus temporis .
the all embracing clouds clung with a clammy tenacity .
all my senses were afloat .
all references had gone .
the eerie echoing of unseen gulls followed the boat like aerial spirits crying in the wind .
i could not tell if my hearing was right or wrong .
time seemed to telescope out in the white world .
for a terrible moment , i thought i was back on the quay .
i reflected on the events of just an hour before .
was i really here ?
what had the white crystal done back there ?
who was the body on the quay ?
was it ?
for a moment , i panicked .
but my head was clearing and the white light getting brighter all around .
what did it matter ?
here i was , on the ferry to the big city .
change came suddenly the fog bank billowed away behind the ferry and we emerged into bright sunshine .
the contrast was unnerving .
the blinds lifted from my eyes and my ears were no longer deaf .
the monochrome world burst into brilliant life .
clear space filled my mind , colour soaked into my eyes the sky was sapphire blue the sea was aquamarine .
the sun was already warming my face .
in the space of a minute the whole world had changed completely .
my aching head had cleared miraculously into fresh new confidence .
the bright morning light made me squint and blink .
i looked around across the sparkling waves to a place i had never really seen before .
the ferry was less than a mile from the big city harbour .
the buildings towered on the skyline .
glass walls reflected the sky in a dazzling display of jet and emerald .
peak upon peak of mountainous sky scrapers ranged back into the heart of the city .
closer , the harbour was alive with vessels arriving and leaving .
derricks and cranes lined the docksides .
ships of massive bulk wallowed in the wharves waiting for the cranes to disgorge their treasured cargoes .
pleasure boats and yachts skimmed across the waters , criss crossing the harbour to the marina where forests of masts , with rigging slapping , lay tangled against the morning sky .
two dolphins arced and dove alongside the ferry .
their sleek bodies dazzled me with their brilliant display and playful mastery of the sea .
i thought that the world , too , seemed to wear a fresh , happy smile at that moment of new pleasure .
the bold , bright buildings grew in magnificence and stature as the ferry closed in to the terminus .
cars and trucks on the freeways gleamed , as they processed in a ceaseless multitude , across the six lane deck of a suspension bridge .
it rose and curved across the harbour entrance in a single perfect majestic span imitating the dolphins that raced below .
far off , i could see the smoky stacks of the factories and the distant glint of metalwork strung with a webbing of silver pipes .
chimneys , like great twisted candles , spouted yellow , red and white smoke into the sky .
below , giant cylindrical tanks sprawled down to the sea .
i knew from my talks with frank that this edifice was the great bay oil refinery .
i watched all these things and more with a sense of awe and wonder as the ferry came in to dock .
it was like stepping forward in time .
i realised that suidhe was not only old but also old fashioned .
the island had formed in a different era of history and the ferry was like a time machine to the future over the sea .
the closer the boat came to the shore , the less of the overall picture i could see and the clearer the detail became .
like a huge jigsaw , hundreds of pieces formed every part .
the hum of the city came across the water like the sound of a hive .
engine oil and sulphur smarted my sense of smell .
the sound of engines thrummed in my ears and the gleam of steel glared at my eyes .
all these things tantalised my senses with new delights .
even the fresh warmth of the sun appeared to increase to a close dry heat as we came near to the city .
the glistening green and black glass terminal building lay in welcome , like a vast iridescent beetle .
the passengers came out onto the deck of the ferry and stood in a small group around the gangway , some chatting together , others quietly watching .
no one had noticed me silently waiting in my place in the stern .
it was as if i wasnt there .
the boat docked smoothly and calmly with a precision born of confidence and regularity .
the gangway dropped down and engaged with the terminus walkway as the ferry engines slowed to an idle .
i watched the passengers walk casually down into the gaping hall of the building and away .
they seemed to just disappear into the vastness of the place .
no one was watching the ferry or seemed the least interested in me .
i got up .
this time i felt steady and clear headed .
i walked round the deck , down the gangway and across the walkway into the building .
i didnt look to either side as i went .
strangely , i did not feel nervous .
i was sure i would be fine .
the shining stone floor seemed doubly solid and still after the gently rolling deck of the ferry .
there were no ticket collectors at the empty booths and i walked on through .
i had arrived i was in the big city .
i walked to the centre of the great hall where i stood and gazed about me .
i looked up and around and across .
the place was unlike anything i had seen before .
kiosks and benches lined the walls and lights reflected on the marble floors .
nothing appeared to support the glinting glass of the roof it was magic .
some pigeons fluttered through the artificial sky above while others ambled lamely on the smooth ground , pecking and picking at any small item , be it food or not .
this place was a universe to them .
nameless music echoed and reverberated , occasionally punctuated by an unintelligible announcement spoken by a robotic female voice .
the voice , which emanated from nowhere , spoke to no one the people ignored it .
arrays of giant lights spread artificial daylight through the thin air inside despite the sun that blazed through the blue sky above .
the building appeared contrived and artificial , and yet it was magnificent the place was like a modern palace .
i did not notice the other people at first , but here and there , around the kiosks and within waiting rooms , sat men and women , boys and girls .
they seemed insignificant in the vast hall .
i knew that ships went from here up and down the coast and across the ocean .
but traffic on a saturday was light and it was still early .
many of the people were as silent as statues and they were all doing almost nothing .
some read newspapers , hiding behind the broadsheets some looked at the ground , seemingly deep in thought some stared out vacantly from glazed eyes but they all waited , passing time .
a cleaner walked lazily past , pushing a giant broom , meandering across the floor , whistling as he went .
two old men , very scruffily dressed , shuffled across to a rubbish bin where they rummaged through the detritus inside .
they walked on , disappointed , and mumbled incoherently to each other .
a rolled up coat lying black , formless and ragged , by a bench , contained a man , asleep .
were these the big city people , so silent , grey and inanimate ?
i thought .
they had grim mouths and empty eyes .
i watched them yawning and waiting as the numbers on the clock clicked on , interminably .
my heart cheered when i saw a large , smiling woman , dressed in an apron and cap .
she was leaning across a clean metal counter in a kiosk and talked , with flamboyant gestures , to an old grey man who was sitting on a stool drinking tea .
itll lead to no good , you see if im right , she was saying , as the man appeared to ignore her .
the cleaner walked up and interrupted her harangue .
ivy , give us a tea , luv , and he sat on another stool and rested his elbows on the bar top .
i realised again , that i was hungry and walked towards the kiosk to see what snack i could buy .
i would save the rest of my biscuits until later .
before i reached the place , i remembered the crystal .
it had been in my hand all this time .
even as the thought arose in my mind , a voice close behind called out oi !
you , and i turned involuntarily .
yea , you .
come ere .
i stood staring at two young men with black jackets , black shiny hair , black glasses and blue jeans .
they were almost carbon copies but for their difference in size , which was comical .
the lean tall one had spoken to me .
all thoughts of magic instantly left me as i slipped the crystal out of my hand and into the leather pouch .
i remembered old eric had told me that the magic was not for the mainland .
but here and now , old eric seemed from a different world .
he must have known , i thought .
the two sinister young men were leaning on a steel railing beside an escalator that flowed up and out of sight .
the short fat one chewed and grinned as the other man beckoned me across .
i did not like the look of either of them , but i walked over anyway .
the fat man spat the gum out of his mouth and then he asked me where you come from ?
before i could answer , the fat man started to walk , signalling for me to follow .
i obediently followed him while the other man walked on behind .
suidhe , the island , i replied and the fat one laughed with a vicious scathing cackle .
the men kept walking .
i felt an almost imperceptible movement beside me , just as the fat one pointed to something up towards the roof and said look up there !
he stopped and looked .
i followed his pointing finger and someone patted me on the back .
ivy , in her kiosk , looked up at the three of us and shouted hey you , leave him , hes just a kid .
i heard a slight noise behind and turned to look , but the thin man had gone and when i turned back the other way , the fat man was just disappearing up the escalator at the side of the hall .
i went over to the kiosk .
ivy and the cleaner looked at me sadly .
you wan na keep away from the likes of them , dear , said ivy .
theyll clean you out in no time .
what do you mean ?
i asked but they just looked at each other and shook their heads .
i asked for a cup of tea and a biscuit but when i felt in my pocket for my wallet it had gone .
i turned red with embarrassment and anger at having been so easily duped so early in the day .
no one had ever told me about thieves , we didnt have any on the island .
here you are .
have the tea and cake on me and welcome , ivy said .
but take my advice and go home before something serious happens .
i couldnt imagine what could be more serious , but i thanked her , drank the tea and left .
i checked my pocket the crystal was still there in the leather pouch and i sighed in relief .
although i had not found a very promising start to my adventure , i decided that it was time to see the city .
i had franks new address on a piece of paper and i intended to make my way to that destination .
i would only be in the city for one day , i would catch the evening ferry home again , and i could survive until then without the little money i had brought .
the two thieves would be disappointed when they counted their haul .
i found my way to the exit and strode out through the automatic glass doors onto the pavement of a busy road alongside a huge car park .
the weather was changing and the sun was now invisible behind mounting grey clouds , but the day was still fair .
parked taxis and cars lined the roadway .
i could see a bus station across the way , where large yellow buses parked neatly beside the shelters .
each bus had a different number and name on its destination board .
the noise and smell of all these vehicles engulfed me .
i felt that i had walked into some monstrous mechanical farmyard .
the place was squalid , and empty cans , cigarette ends and squashed packaging lay abandoned on the grimy pavements .
despite the constant arrival and departure of so many vehicles , it struck me that few people seemed to be going anywhere or doing anything in particular .
everybody outside waited , as they had within .
the pavements beyond the terminus seemed deserted .
nobody walked in the big city everyone went by car , by taxi , or by bus .
i would have taken a bus to the city centre but without money i had no choice but to walk .
i started walking along the road past the bus station and towards the centre of the city .
the road , built along the top of an old stone causeway , was wide enough for two lanes of vehicles in each direction .
there was a fuming snake of traffic crawling along towards the distant junction at the freeway .
i walked past the cars and buses and lorries , looking at each one in turn , taking it all in .
i had never seen so many vehicles in one place , even in pictures .
the engines rattled and whined while brakes hissed and squeaked .
every few minutes , the whole parade of vehicles would surge forward , engines revving , opening up like some giant concertina , and then collapse down , squealing and hissing to a tight stop .
the drivers of these vehicles leaned out of their windows or clutched at their wheels , or stared into their mirrors , or talked to themselves .
they were oblivious to the world outside , except for the vehicle in front .
occasionally , an irate horn would blare or someone would shout , although there seemed to be no reason for it .
the freeway at the junction was very different .
it was wider than the terminus road and the traffic never stopped but raced past , unceasingly , at such a pace that i could barely distinguish the vehicles one from another .
three lanes of traffic flowed by each way in a rattling , roaring stampede .
the pavement stopped abruptly at the junction there was nowhere to go .
i stood in front of the snarling morass of traffic and blinked stupidly in the glaring light , as i wondered what to do next .
i knew that the city centre lay beyond me in the direction i had first started to walk .
i could see the shining towers on the horizon , but there was an impenetrable wall of moving vehicles barring my way .
a deep ditch and a wild terrain of empty marshland lay on either side of the road .
bricks and rubble erupted through the green slimy water and muddy puddles .
an occasional half dead bush or reed covered patch grew stubbornly up through the desolation .
it was an uninviting place , a wilderness that spread into the distance .
the green soupy water smelled of decay and the surface buzzed angrily with hordes of insects .
gas bubbles glooped to the surface and dragonflies dipped and danced in the air .
i looked again at the frantic freeway and turned away .
it seemed there was no alternative but to walk back the way i had come .
i retraced my steps and , to my surprise , i saw a man in a grey coat and a wide brimmed hat standing on the path and looking out across the wasteland .
i hurried past the dark figure without looking up .
a few minutes later , i stood outside the ferry terminus again .
i looked back to the road and saw two cars stop and the waiting man get into the first , before they both sped off towards the city .
as i watched two other men walked out along the same road to the place where the man had stood before looking back towards me .
they wore smart grey business suits .
one had a red tie and one blue .
i looked around for a different way to go .
there was one other road that slipped quietly away towards the docks .
it had no cars travelling on it , but a train like parade of parked lorries lined one side .
i followed this road , which had no footpath , to the corner of the terminus building .
it turned first one way and then the other , zig zagging between large , formless warehouses .
the main road had numerous spurs that led to further warehouses and yards .
occasionally , a lorry would thunder past , vibrating the ground with its weight as it sped by .
i could not see far in any direction because of the towering warehouses all around but i was able to make steady progress along the road .
the dusty tarmac was shady and quiet , and my footfall echoed from the featureless walls .
although there didnt appear to be any signs or clues to direction , i guessed that i was making my way by a circuitous route toward the city centre .
i stopped suddenly to tie my shoe lace and above the distant hum of traffic i could hear the sound of steps behind me stopping too .
i looked but could see no one .
distance in the big city is a thing of illusion .
a distance that appears to be short when seen from the start becomes progressively longer as you make your way .
so it was in the docklands , where i was walking .
until you try walking in the big city , you are not aware how very big it all is .
the scale of things is quite wrong for mere humans .
it is a land for giants , mechanical giants .
i was aware that my available time was passing quickly and i didnt seem to be getting any closer to my destination .
i cursed the thieves who had stolen my money and i began to despair of ever seeing the city centre .
i thought of asking someone for help , but there was no one to ask the place was deserted except for the footpad still following .
i had a wary feeling growing inside .
i went around one more right angled bend and i finally came across something different .
i felt cheered by the sight .
before me was a ship .
it was the largest thing i had ever seen .
even from a distance , it was impressive a vast black bulk that filled the quayside .
i approached the monster open mouthed , until i stood only twenty feet away .
the deck was as high as the roof of a warehouse building .
the bridge , at the rear of the vessel , rose up as high again .
above it all was a massive red funnel .
hawsers as thick as a mans body spiralled down to the quayside close by where i stood .
i turned towards the city and saw a solitary man in a grey coat leaning against a gantry in the distance .
his face was hidden in the shadows cast by the broad brim of his hat .
he appeared to be looking out to sea .
who was this man ?
i decided to speak to him , to satisfy my curiosity .
the tall , bird like cranes , that travelled on rails the length of the docks , were unloading some of the other ships .
i walked on , past other vessels , and a slow moving train overtook me , hooting as it approached .
two dirty industrial engines were pulling perhaps a hundred wagons that rumbled and clanked and clattered their way towards the end of the quay .
the grey man was very close , on the other side of the railway and i waited for the train to pass .
the last wagon rolled away and i crossed the lines to where the man had been , but the place was empty no one was visible .
all the while , above me , the eternal spying eyes of the gulls wheeled through the air .
a uniform grey mass of cloud now covered the sky in every direction and a small cool breeze was stirring and ruffling the tops of the murky green waves in the bay .
the rain drifted across in a drizzled mist blowing on the wind .
heavier drops followed and the steady patter soon turned the dusty road into a gleaming black lake .
i put up my hood and huddled along faster .
as i walked , i looked out for a place under cover where i could stop and let the shower pass .
i splashed my way down a side road , to the relative shelter of an open warehouse loading bay , and i sat down on a deserted concrete plinth .
i took out my food and munched my way thoughtfully through some biscuits .
i carefully preserved some for later .
to my great disappointment , the sky darkened still further and the rain hailed down with gusto .
to avoid a soaking , i stood up and backed into the shadows of the loading bay .
the rain descended like a curtain across the entrance way .
i stopped and watched it , listening to the drumming rattle on the iron roof .
in that noisy darkness i heard another sound a whistle .
suddenly , on the periphery of vision , shadows emerged from the gloom on either side .
i tensed and froze .
seconds later , six youths surrounded me .
they remained silent and watching .
one of them stepped forward , a tall lad with long unkempt hair .
i noticed he wore worn out brown leather boots , and a faded sleeveless denim jacket .
his turned up trousers were too short and thin with age .
the lad had strong , tattooed arms and small podgy hands .
one hand had only three fingers with which he stabbed the air in front of me .
whats your name ?
he asked .
his voice was rough and worn , like his clothes .
he sounded much older than he looked .
harry , i replied .
whats yours ?
this question obviously surprised him and he opened his mouth to speak but changed his mind .
suddenly he laughed , a loud rattling nervous laugh .
tuffy , muffy , puffy , huffy , duffy and crystal , said tuffy , muffy , puffy , huffy , duffy and crystal in quick rotation .
i span around as they answered .
i looked at tuffy again .
in the dizzy half light he looked familiar , but how could he be ?
he was clearly the leader , a confident , commanding person with a glint in his eye .
dont you know who we are ?
asked tuffy .
no , i replied .
im lost .
everybody knows who we are , sneered muffy .
weve been watching you , said huffy .
and so have the others , said crystal .
i suddenly realised that crystal was a girl .
crystal smiled .
the storm still raged outside .
tuffy shouted , tell him who we are , boys .
they all chanted together , stomping their feet in time and drowning out the sound of the storm were rough and were tough , you dont fool with us if you aint big enough cause were the boys on the block we run and we rock everyone knows our name ...
the big city gang !
they pushed me backwards and forwards from one to the other as they sang out the chant , propelling me around the circle until i was quite dizzy and exhausted .
when they had finished , they stood around me , grinning and i sank down involuntarily to the ground , shaking but still only half scared of these fearsome youths .
silence , hissed tuffy .
he edged his way to the opening and looked out .
looking at me , he waved me over .
look out there , harry , he whispered , do you know those two ?
two grey suited men were in the distance walking slowly down the dock and looking in each open doorway as they came .
one had a red tie and one blue .
no , i replied .
but i saw them looking around by the ferry terminal .
we stepped back in to the dark .
time to go .
out the back way .
take him to the star chamber , ordered tuffy .
i found myself being dragged up and away in an instant .
they jostled me along at a running pace between them down long , wet , deserted alleys amidst the buildings .
twisting and turning , i lost all sense of direction .
tuffy , in the lead , disappeared through an unseen doorway and we all followed into a dark passageway and down long flights of steps .
our footsteps echoed but there was no other sound .
the passageway went down a long lightless slope and ended at a heavy door .
the door opened smoothly and the company entered a chamber .
behind us the door clanged shut with a sound like a deep metallic gong .
all about , it was pitch black and i could see nothing .
suddenly , in the silence , there was a ping and a brilliant light illuminated the strangest of places .
i blinked in the harsh brightness and looked around .
the big city gang still surrounded me , but they seemed relaxed .
we had clearly arrived in the star chamber .
the room was a large , circular brick lined chamber with a high domed roof .
there were six doors around the circumference of the chamber , all identical and all shut , through one of which we had entered , but i didnt know which one .
there was a large old wooden table and a number of chairs , no two of which were alike , standing on a threadbare circular rug .
a stately chandelier , which would not have been out of place in a palace , was hanging down in the centre of the room .
it had been fixed to an old hook with a rusty iron chain .
the light from this device sparkled out and rebounded from the equally dramatic ceiling .
an ornate and brightly painted scene of clouds and cherubs with , at their centre , a magnificent chasm surrounded by trumpeting angels covered the dome .
the whole effect was both dramatic and unnerving .
tuffy and the gang had already seated themselves and waved me to a seat amongst them .
i looked around at my companions and , in the luxurious light , was able to see them for the first time .
they were as different as the chairs they occupied .
tuffy , the tall , arrogant leader exuded calm control .
his street wise dress seemed faded in the magnificent chamber as he sat like a king amongst his knights .
he filled elegant cut glass goblets with wine from an earthenware decanter and handed them around .
i , too , received a glass .
muffy sat at the right hand of the leader .
he maintained a constant sneer on his otherwise indistinct face .
his clothes mimicked those of tuffy , but failed through ill fit and muffys physical demeanour , to succeed in exerting anything but a comical expression of ineptitude .
muffy had none of tuffys lean , gaunt , sharp style he was more of a comfortable , fireside physique a little overweight , a little short in stature , a little grey in pallor an ordinary youth .
puffy occupied the chair on the other side of tuffy .
puffy was huge in girth and perched , rather than sat , on the chair he was too wide to fit in it .
his not inconsiderable height seemed diminished by his weight .
he had a schoolboy face adorned by a pair of broken horn rimmed spectacles .
he looked like a giant baby , pink and fat , and he was constantly wiping drops of perspiration away from his forehead .
his completely bald head , which he often covered with a massive white stetson hat , dominated his whole appearance .
he had put the hat down beside him on the table .
the next chair contained huffy , whose purpose seemed to be to exaggerate the size of his companion .
huffy was tiny , like a jockey .
he stood about five feet tall and was a bony sallow youth .
his clothes were several sizes too large .
he wore a black suit and tie and had the pallid appearance of an undertakers assistant .
he sat hunched over his glass , holding the stem with both hands curled around it like claws .
his scrawny neck emerged turtle like from the shiny jacket while his badly broken nose gave his face a beak like quality .
this vulturish creature scowled across the table at me without blinking , whilst constantly muttering oaths .
duffy sat opposite the leader .
he dressed like a farm boy with check shirt and jeans .
his arms and legs seemed out of all proportion to the body and reached awkwardly out from his clothes .
the small eyes and large mouth seemed permanently surprised .
he sat with his hands in his pockets and chewed gum whilst pushing back the chair onto its spindly hind legs with his own large limbs splayed out in front .
i noticed that he spoke to no one but frequently laughed , making a sound like a braying donkey .
the last chair was a bar stool and on it perched crystal .
she seemed quite out of place in the company , yet she also seemed to occupy some special position .
the first impression was not of a girl at all .
she wore a black leather jacket and loose jeans .
she sat , legs apart and elbows on the table , toying with a small length of knotted rope .
her dishevelled red hair hung in limp strands across her face .
on closer inspection , it was possible to view beneath those tawny shadows and see the clear grey eyes and smooth creamy freckled skin of a distinctive girls face .
when everyone had received their wine , the company stood up and raised their goblets .
tuffy sang out to the big city gang , and the reply came from all the others , the big city gang .
the shout echoed from the domed roof and rang around the chamber like a bell sounding .
everyone sat down except the leader , who looked at me with a gleam in his eye .
welcome to the star chamber , harry !
he shouted and everyone laughed .
i looked up sheepishly but could not reply .
it was all stranger than fiction to me .
crystal leaned over , nudged me and whispered , its all right , harry , drink up .
they wont hurt you , youre precious .
the assembly settled down to chatter and hubbub , while huffy stared at me continuously and scowled .
chapter six the star chamber the party in the star chamber continued for some time and i felt worried .
what was i doing there ?
why was i precious ?
the strange group of people around me seemed animated , happy and relaxed , excepting huffy , who never spoke to any one and who followed every move i made .
i only spoke when spoken to , mainly by crystal , who seemed concerned to look after me .
some of the party went out of the chamber for a while and returned with a trolley laden with food .
that such an ill kempt group appeared to be so organised , surprised me .
were there others behind the scenes ?
we all ate well and the food was good .
i asked where it came from and muffy laughed and said it had been given to them .
more drinks came after the meal .
i felt tired and worried when tuffy came up to me and said , harry , lets you and me go into the other room for a minute .
i followed him through one of the doors and into a vaulted corridor that had a number of other passages leading from it .
tuffy unlocked a steel door and beckoned me in .
the room was small and sparsely furnished with two chairs , a table and a rusty filing cabinet .
there was no natural light but a metal lamp hung from the cement ceiling .
take a seat , harry , said tuffy and he stood opposite me at the table .
looking down , tuffy spoke , they want you , harry .
he raised his eyes to me , tell me why , he said and he looked at me with a penetrating stare .
i hesitated , who wants me ?
i replied .
cmon harry , dont fool with me .
i looked back blankly .
tuffy whistled between his teeth .
you saw him harry , the man in the grey coat , started tuffy .
some people call him the follower .
suddenly i looked up .
so , you know what im talking about , harry ?
yes , i said .
no , i mean , i dont know .
what do you mean ?
then theres those other two .
weve never seen them before , but they were looking for something too and my guess is that something is you .
but why me ?
im only here to visit the big city , i replied .
i have to be back tonight .
i dont understand whats happening .
harry , what have you got that they want ?
i dont know , i lied .
tuffy looked at me and methodically tapped a pencil on the table .
then he said , okay , harry , well show you the big city ... tonight , and he stood up and motioned me to follow him .
we returned to the star chamber and i saw that the food and drink had gone .
the gang stood together awaiting our arrival .
they turned and looked as we entered .
harry wants to see the big city , boys , said tuffy .
lets do the centre of town tonight .
this announcement resulted in a cheer from the company and they immediately began to head for the doors and disperse .
crystal , said tuffy , you take harry , but remember , hes precious , and he laughed .
crystal turned and looked at me .
come on , harry , she called and i followed her out of the door into the dark passage beyond .
where are we ?
i asked .
what is this place ?
this is our place , she replied .
its an old underground hospital built during the great war .
we have borrowed it .
theres a whole network of tunnels down here , some of them go for miles .
but where do you live ?
we live here , she waved her hands around and laughed .
apart from the rats , its all right .
are there any others ?
i asked .
you ask too much , harry , she replied .
follow me and ill show you something really good .
crystal began to jog down the corridor ahead .
fleetingly , i thought of escape but i was hopelessly lost and besides , there was something about crystal i liked .
just thinking of her made my cheeks burn i followed .
we ran down the twisting , badly lit passages , past doors and chambers , until we reached a large , heavy door , hung on massive hinges and circular in shape , like the entrance to a bank vault .
we spun the clamps that held it closed and swung it open .
the door was about a foot thick and solid .
the weight was so great that we could only move it slowly .
i could feel a breeze blowing through the gap as the door opened and the sound of water emerged from the darkness beyond .
it reminded me of the cave on sgurr cavan .
careful inside , its slippery , she called above the sound of the falling water .
go to the railing .
i went forward gingerly in the dark and found a smooth , cold , wet railing that i gripped .
i stood hesitantly while crystal found a light switch .
the dim light revealed an underground river that disappeared into the distance .
it flowed through a brick lined tunnel and the water tumbled over a weir below my feet into a hidden cavern .
the air was heavy with moisture and the walls were green with mossy looking growths and algae .
there was a small landing stage to one side , and a large wooden canoe , complete with paddles , tied up to a railing .
get in , shouted crystal .
well go for a ride .
we boarded the small craft and started to journey up the river .
at first , it was hard work paddling against the current but we made steady progress .
the sound of the weir receded and a watery silence ensued , broken only by the constant dripping from the roof and the occasional splash of rats darting for safety as we approached .
we didnt paddle quickly , but set a leisurely pace .
i looked ahead at the back of my companion and beyond .
in the quiet of the place i felt a new peace and trust .
i began to talk to crystal .
crystal , i asked , am i a prisoner ?
no , she replied , we have just borrowed you for a bit .
what is all this about ?
i asked .
i dont know why , but theyre after you .
we found out , so we got you first .
youre better off with us .
but i need to go home tonight , theres only one ferry .
if im not home ill be missed .
dont worry harry , she said , but you must trust me or i cant help you .
i dont see how i can , i dont even know you , i replied .
harry , you dont have to know people to trust them ... now , youll see the city with us , tonight , and then we can worry about getting you home , she laughed .
the lights in the tunnel blinked twice and crystal stopped paddling .
time to turn around , she said .
we have to go back .
awkwardly , i turned to face forward , followed by crystal , who slipped around with practiced ease and grace .
the journey back through the tunnel was easy and we drifted along with the current .
harry , said crystal quietly , this is my secret river .
how do you mean ?
i asked .
no one else knows about this .
the others dont know , only us .
why ?
i began .
i searched all over the docks for this river , said crystal .
you see , this is my river and it was lost .
then an old lady told me where to look and i found it .
youre not like the others , i said .
why have you shown me this ?
because i love it , its home from home .
i live a long way away from here , near the snowy mountains , where this river just begins .
my father has a farm but they built a dam and now there isnt enough water and the farm is dying .
so my father sent me away to the big city and i stayed with an aunt but she left me on my own .
i wanted to find the river and the big city gang showed me their underground star chamber .
i thought the river must be near .
every day , i searched the passages until i found it , but i never told the others , they wouldnt understand .
theyre not bad people theyre city people , but they dont fit in and they live down here like rats .
theyd be lost in the country .
how do they survive ?
i asked .
they borrow things from the city food , clothes , not much really .
people say they are criminals and dangerous , but they only take stuff that isnt really needed , replied crystal .
but why did they want me , why am i so precious ?
i asked .
there are others , other gangs , not so nice .
but theres a kind of network and messages get passed .
tuffy knows everyone hes been around .
he heard that some big people wanted to get hold of you , so he figured you must have something valuable .
but now hes got you , i think he cant quite decide what to do with you .
if youve got something valuable i should lose it fast .
but dont try running away or the others will catch you for sure , and that wouldnt be good .
youre lucky , we found you first .
now everyone else will be going mad looking for you .
stick with us and youll be safe .
but i dont want to stick with you , i replied .
i cant .
ive got to go home today .
dont worry , whispered crystal quietly .
i have a way .
stay by me tonight when we go out and maybe we can both get home .
there was silence for a moment and then crystal began to sing .
her voice filled the dark space with a slow , haunting , liquid clear and beautiful sound .
the words of her song hovered dreamily on the air .
the magic of that journey changed my life .
waters run in silent dark ...
deeper blackness falls time has lost her destiny while invisible she calls .
freedom flows towards the sea forever moving down the mountains far still call to me from their icy crown .
the tongues of liquid moving thought like flames they flicker through the tunnels where the meanings sought to question which is true .
i listen filled with hope and fear , i pass into the night the morning brings the answer clear with the dawning of new light .
the star chamber was empty when we returned , but one by one the gang entered through the various doors that surrounded it .
tuffy waited until all were present and then he set off at a trot while the rest of us followed .
i was in the middle of the group and huffy ran close behind me .
the journey to the surface was brisk and uneventful .
the gang moved quickly but did not speak .
they ran to a collective rhythm and they moved like a machine .
even puffy , the fat one , seemed to propel himself along without effort .
the gang did not all go out onto the street together but slipped out , one by one , at intervals , through several different exits .
huffy suddenly took my shoulder and guided me firmly into a side passage .
wait , he whispered .
i waited silently while he went ahead and opened a door onto a side street .
the light poured in from outside and he slipped out .
a few seconds later he returned and said , follow .
we stepped together onto the street and i blinked in the afternoon light .
time in the underground world of the star chamber had no reference and without the light and heat of the sun it was easy to forget that the rest of the world existed .
outside , it was a quiet , lazy saturday afternoon in the city .
the rain had cleared away and a warm sun shone brightly down .
without the gang around us , we were just a couple of lads out and about .
on the street , we walked normally and , after a while , huffy started to talk to me in short disjointed sentences .
you come from that island , he said .
never been there , never want to neither ... one day im going to be leader , you just see ... a ship went down over there last year , still down , too ...
this all flooded once , long time ago ... biggest port on the coast , this ... and so huffy went on in his mechanical drone of a voice and we walked on towards the city centre .
we changed direction often to avoid detection and grey followers .
i still felt lost but occasional glimpses between the buildings confirmed that we were getting closer to the city centre .
the walk into town took a long time .
it was much further than i had realised .
the appearance of the surrounding buildings changed as we moved on .
the warehouse district gave way to the factory district and the factory district gave way to the shopping district .
we had encountered hardly any other people all the while we had been walking , but in the shopping district , we found another world .
i had never seen so many people or so many shops .
there were great car parks on the edge occupied by rows and rows of shiny cars .
the whole thing resembled a layer from a beehive with cars buzzing in and out and manoeuvring in constant motion .
beyond the car parks , in the distance , were the shopping halls glass and marble palaces filled with moving stairways and lifts and cascades of plants and waterfalls .
the plate glass windows of dozens of gift and clothing shops were ranged along the walls of the halls .
the squares and roofs held cafs and restaurants where shoppers sat idly chatting and passing the day .
sugary music drifted through the air all the while , above the hubbub of people sliding their feet on the shiny marble floors .
the colours were bright and exciting and the displays were full of the exotic .
this is how the city works , said huffy .
aint nothing but an onion , huffy explained .
each district is surrounded by the next .
an each district is split into four .
the city was laid out in concentric rings called districts and areas , the north factory district or the east housing district .
the east and west is where the workers live .
it aint bad , but it aint good neither .
up north is all the doctors and bosses .
they dont mean no harm , but it aint exactly a friendly place know what i mean .
all the rich bastards live down south .
bunch of lazy stuck up pigs .
thats where we go when we get hungry , and he laughed .
when i was poor , i couldnt walk down south with all them golden boys .
i stuck in the east , with the suckers .
if you were one of us , you could walk about in east housing after dark no problem , but you wouldnt never go into south housing because the police would pick you up and hassle you .
no reason , no law , just scared they are .
them rich guys didnt dare go into east housing after dark .
scared of us hoodlums , they are .
like we ever would touch em , and he spat on the pavement .
the big city gang go where we want , when we want , no stopping us , he stated proudly .
these people here are all just sheep .
baa , baa , one after the other .
theyre scared of themselves .
scared to be alone in case they meet us , huffy stated .
come down here 3.00 oclock saturday .
whole worlds here like they cant help themselves .
go over to the factory district now empty easy pickings .
all these guys must wonder whats going on .
wherever they go theres always a crowd .
makes me laugh .
with us , its different .
when theyre here , were there , seeing what they dont need no more .
the big city gang , it seemed , went to places when the crowd was away and he had sometimes spent days at a time seeing virtually nobody but his five friends .
the next district that we entered was the housing district , which consisted of rows of identical terraced houses interspersed with numerous high rise apartment blocks .
the streets around these tenements were shabby and everything appeared worn out .
this is east housing , said huffy .
i used to live ere , and he grimaced as he looked at the rusty cars that lined the roads .
aint never going to live ere again .
all around the streets children roamed in gangs or played football .
young mothers could be seen keeping an eye on them through the open windows and front doors .
the roads of houses extended into the distance but ceased abruptly as we entered the office district .
the place was empty of people .
the many high towers that stood sentinel along the roads were dark it was the weekend .
the only people to be seen were security guards , who eyed us suspiciously as we walked by , but returned to their outpost boxes when we had passed .
we went through the old shopping district .
this is the real old city , said huffy .
used to be all proper shops an stuff .
all gone now .
all the nobs come ere to stuff their faces now .
sometimes we come down ere at night and work round the clubs .
always money to be made out of them drunks .
but on saturday afternoon the place was quiet .
the roads in this area were small and old fashioned and the buildings were quaint and decorative .
every old shop seemed to be a club or restaurant .
further on there were theatres .
between and behind these buildings were grubby back alleys with empty crates and huge , overflowing bins .
huffy sometimes took short cuts through these back yards .
we stopped at an open door leading into a grubby kitchen .
huffy poked his head in and a rough voice inside called out .
she aint here .
now push off .
huffy returned , sullen and muttering .
come on .
shes there .
hes lying .
lets hit no.1 district .
we walked through the government district .
it had a completely different character and contained massive stone buildings large enough for giants .
everything about these buildings was larger than reality .
the doors were twice normal height , as were the windows .
the entrances had impressive steps and portals .
flags flew from the roofs and statues adorned the courtyards and squares .
here , too , the offices were dark and the streets almost deserted .
nothin ere .
hate this place , said huffy and he looked small and insignificant against the massive stones .
the centre area of the city was district one .
the outskirts of district one contained a circle of tall , dramatic buildings .
look .
hotels .
rich pickins , said huffy .
each one of these hotels looked out to the front across a large park surrounded by a road and iron railings .
each of the four sides of the park contained a massive and elaborate gate painted gold and red .
car free avenues stretched across the grassy spaces beyond the gate .
in the distance , it was possible to make out the forms of the hotels , which lined the further sides of the park .
there was only one building of any size inside , set within its own railings and gardens .
the building at the centre of the park was monumental both in scale and architecture .
it sprawled with imposing symmetry , its massive windows pink and gold with the light of the late afternoon sun .
whats that ?
i asked .
that , said huffy , pausing , is the presidential palace .
of course , the president dont live there no more .
now its the hq of the big city bank .
thats the biggest bank in the world , yer know , gold bars and dimonds in there and , for the first time since i had met him , huffys voice lifted above his usual boring drone to contain a note of excitement .
we stood for a while on the edge of the grass , behind a row of tall , grey plane trees , and we looked out across the expanse of the park .
here and there , people walked in the shadows in ones or twos , or sat on benches .
a solitary horseman was cantering across the grass towards a tree lined dell in the distance .
huffy started walking across the grass in a casual and circuitous route and i followed .
a quarter of an hour later , we entered the ring of trees growing around the lip of a former clay pit .
there , we saw the horseman , still mounted , at the foot of the hill and looking up at us with interest .
huffy ran down the slope to the centre of the dell and i followed .
as we approached , i realised that the horseman was crystal .
she looked quite different up in the saddle .
seated above her proud mount i thought she looked heroic .
other shadows appeared around the banks and before long , the entire big city gang was standing together in a group .
the light was fading into evening and the shadows had fallen across the old clay pit leaving the group well hidden .
but when i looked up , i thought i saw the silhouette of a man standing on the edge looking down .
it was no more than a grey shadow fleetingly standing by a tree .
i blinked and looked again but the apparition had gone .
the thought of mentioning it to the others fled as tuffy started to lay out the plan for the nights adventures .
comrades and friends , he began in a quiet voice , we have come to district one to borrow some money .
at first , i thought we were going to rob the bank , but a different plan was afoot and tuffy continued the big city hotel has a casino on the roof where big money is won and lost .
but gambling is a bad habit and we have a duty to cure the gamblers of their vice for at least one night !
around me , in the closing dark , i heard some chuckles .
tuffy explained muffy and i shall go up the service lift to interrupt the casino bank .
huffy and puffy will wait at the bottom of the tower , in the garden , where we shall throw the money down in pillowcases .
huffy and puffy will throw the bags over the hedge and into the ha ha .
thats a ditch to you , huffy .
crystal will ride through the ha ha in thirty minutes time and collect the bags on pegasus , thats crystals horse , harry .
duffy and harry will stay here and lift that drain cover ready to let the money down to the hiding place .
tuffy pointed out a large old drain cover , one of several that lay in the dell .
we will collect the money another time , after it has been forgotten about .
meanwhile , all comrades will return to the star chamber .
we will make our way back by the usual routes .
any questions ?
a brief silence followed before the four other comrades left the clay pit leaving crystal and duffy with me .
you had better get lifting , boys , said crystal , laughing .
she sat on a tree stump while we examined the drain .
it was old and rusty .
supposing the money gets washed away ?
i asked .
now that would be a pity , replied crystal .
but it wont , she said and in the semi darkness i caught her giving me a wink .
duffy had come prepared and pulled a jemmy from his cavernous jacket and began to attack the heavy rusty drain cover .
we lifted it and peered into the dark below .
i heard the sound of running water in the distance and the impression of space wafted up with a cool breeze .
duffy shone a small torch down and we saw that the drain had no water directly below but appeared to be the entrance to some form of underground tank .
then came a long wait .
i started to speak do you do this often ?
i asked just as crystals horse raised its head and was listening intently .
shh , whispered crystal and slipped off the tree stump , handing me pegasus reins as she did so .
she dodged behind some trees and disappeared from view .
a moment later i saw the silhouette of a man on the edge of the dell , almost invisible now .
seconds later , another shadow , much smaller , silently slid up behind him and raised her hands high .
idiot !
i breathed .
i threw the reins to duffy and scrambled up to the edge of the dell even as the man turned to face crystal .
no !
i called and pulled the crystal out of my pocket to throw at the man .
it was the only weapon i had .
there was a sudden gasp as he turned off balance .
he raised a hand at me covering his face and fled into the darkness .
why did you come up here ?
you fool .
you could have got hurt , crystal whispered hoarsely .
i could tell she was angry with herself .
dont be stupid .
he was about to get you .
its not me he wants .
its you .
how did you make him run anyway ?
what have you got that scares him ?
she asked .
no idea , i lied .
i guess he must have just decided to quit .
i wonder who he was ?
now , youre joking , crystal replied , incredulous .
come on , lets get back .
fifteen minutes later , crystal mounted pegasus and rode quietly up the bank and away .
we waited in silence , leaning against a tree , for the horse to return .
i was keeping a keen eye on the banks around the dell .
there were no sounds to suggest anything was happening and duffy appeared completely casual and unconcerned .
he was clearly used to it .
i knew i could rely on duffy to be silent .
he never spoke to anyone he simply smiled and looked .
crystal and pegasus reappeared as quietly as they had gone and i was angry with myself that i had not heard them approaching .
they gently and slowly came down the bank from the opposite direction .
none of us spoke .
duffy untied the bags that were hanging over the saddle of the horse and tied them all to a length of rope .
together we dropped the rope , bag by bag , over the edge of the manhole and , while i took the strain of the six bulging pillowcases , duffy tied the rope to the top rung of the iron ladder that descended into the darkness .
we eased the heavy lid gently back into place and duffy covered it with debris and moss from the dell .
we accomplished all this without sound or light .
duffy looked carefully around and then , with a brief wave and a pat on the back , walked off into the night .
much would pass before i saw him again .
i turned , fearing i would be left alone , but crystal was still there and mounted on the horse .
she motioned to me to follow her and we walked off out of the pit in a different direction .
there was still no sound or commotion .
i started to say something but she quickly held her finger to her lips and we walked on in silence .
the park was empty but the darkness and the trees waving their branches in the breeze gave it an eerie appearance .
although the horse was quiet and placid , and the hooves made only a gentle clop on the turf , the sound of the horses breath seemed loud in the night .
we reached the fence and stopped in the shadows of some trees .
occasional couples walked by on a path outside the fence but they did not notice us .
crystal leaned over and whispered in an even voice .
harry , can you ride ?
ive never tried , i replied , daring not think what would come next .
climb on that bench and jump up behind me , she said .
i cant do that , i whispered back .
but crystal walked her horse to the bench in a determined way .
i followed .
there was little alternative .
harry , she said again , if i told you the follower was still in the park and still following , would you try ?
jump up and hold on to me .
the great beast scared and worried me .
i did not want to fall , but i did as she said and surprised myself by landing gently on the horses back behind crystal .
pegasus shifted his ground and moved about a little but seemed unconcerned by the extra weight of a pillion .
we started to move off into the night , back across the park and towards a different part of the city .
the horse walked steadily for some minutes .
the rhythm of the beast under me was unlike anything i had known before and i could feel the heat coming up through the deep coat .
i held on to my rider around her waist , firmly at first , but with decreasing tension as the journey progressed .
we came to the fence again and for a tense moment i wondered if the horse would try to jump it , but instead we found some broken railings by a fallen tree .
the horse picked a way across and onto the path beyond .
the journey back to the star chamber was one of the strangest i have ever known .
the horse in the night time city seemed incongruous but also magical .
many people stared up at us as we passed down the roads .
in the distance behind we heard sirens and commotion and i guessed the crime was discovered .
crystal was expert at piloting the beast and the streets were relatively quiet in the mid evening lull .
i closed my eyes and imagined travelling through the city in ancient times .
the horses hooves were striking the road with a regular clip clop of metal against stone , and the sound echoed from the walls as we passed .
we travelled by back roads and footpaths for most of the way , crossing the larger roads from time to time .
i think it was then that i fell under the spell of the proud and daring horse woman riding me to safety .
are we going back ?
i asked .
we are and we are not , replied crystal cryptically and in a dreamy voice .
harry , you are not safe in the big city .
you have been seen and we are probably still being followed .
i think we will be safe on the horse tonight , but they will be waiting for you .
the star chamber is secure , but the follower will wait outside and you have to go out sometime .
but what can i do ?
i returned in an agitated whisper , looking all about for the follower .
i , too , want to escape and return home .
i am homesick , harry .
there is nothing for me in this city .
we are country folk , you and i .
the city will never be our home , no matter how long we stay .
do you trust me yet , harry ?
i think so , i said .
but i dont know who to believe , i continued .
i have a plan , she said .
i was going to go on my own , but it would be better with two .
i have a way out of the city , which no follower will ever find .
you must come with me .
crystals voice was quiet but firm .
she had made up her mind and mine .
crystal seemed very quiet and contemplative as we progressed without a word passing between us .
i felt enraptured in wonder at the city by night .
the lights of thousands of houses and apartments concealed hundreds of thousands of lives , all moving together , like the myriad parts of some gigantic organism .
in the distance , i could see an elevated freeway and it seemed that the lights of the cars as they pulsed along were like the lifeblood of the city and the roads were like arteries .
we turned into a small road and a car turned in behind .
suddenly , the car raced past .
i could feel the horse tense beneath us .
whoa , boy , crystal leaned over and stroked the beasts neck .
the car squealed to stop just ahead of us as a second car came slowly up behind .
it was trap .
careful , harry .
whatever you do stay on the horse , said crystal .
by now , the two cars were completely blocking the street .
a man emerged from each , leaving the doors open and the engines running .
we stood stock still in the centre of the street .
i could see pegasus ears switching around .
but he stood his ground , motionless .
itll be alright harry .
well be fine .
whatever you do , stay on board , whispered crystal .
two men stood in the street light .
one was tall and thin , the other short and fat .
they both wore black leather jackets and dark glasses .
the tall one stepped forward , still well back from the horse .
he took a knife from his jacket and played with it .
his friend did the same as they slowly came forward .
oi you !
said the tall one in a voice i recognised .
off the orse .
not you missus , just im .
we sat silent and still .
you deaf kid ?
get down ere or youll get some of this , he said , brandishing his knife .
still we sat silent and motionless .
i could feel the tension mounting in the horse below us .
the beast was moving his head slowly from side to side watching the two .
they moved in closer .
the blades were bright and the glasses black .
crystal tapped my hand a signal .
i tightened my grip .
the horse was pawing its hooves as it shifted its weight .
i wondered what we would do .
i aint asking again .
the kid gets down or you get this .
crystal hit my hand firmly twice .
i gripped her firmly .
i could feel her heart thumping under her ribs .
the horse could sense the moment .
crystal tapped the horses flank with her heel and the beast sprang forward with a loud neighing .
hold on harry !
i heard her shout .
pegasus sprang forward with a shock of energy , straight at the tall man and knocked him down .
the fat one was behind reaching out with his knife .
the horse whinnied violently and i felt the back lift as he gave a mighty kick behind .
the fat one screamed as we galloped past the cars and down the street .
around the corner we stopped and crystal jumped down .
our mount seemed agitated and was frothing at the bit , pawing the ground .
crystal held his proud neck and stroked him .
there , there , my beauty , my beauty .
she went all around .
there was a slight nick bleeding on his hindquarter .
bastards , i heard her swear .
she ran back to the corner just in time to see the two crawling back into their cars and turning back out of the street .
a dozen windows were open and people looking out .
at the far end of the street two men in dark suits stood and watched .
she came back .
gently , she remounted and we walked slowly and quietly .
well be fine now , she said to me as we walked off slowly through a tangle of streets .
this is one hell of a horse , i said .
crystal laughed .
this horse is not just any horse , harry .
pegasus is a retired police horse .
hes trained in riot control .
thought he was back in the good old days .
those two will think twice next time they see a horse coming towards them !
we did not go to the docks directly but rode to a low square building in the housing district , district five .
crystal bade me to dismount and i slid off pegasus back gracelessly and landed roughly on the tarmac .
crystal dropped lightly down to the ground beside me and led the horse up to the large wooden doors that led into the building .
she rang a bell and after a while , a small , grizzled old man appeared .
he looked suspiciously at me but then he took the horse silently .
crystal handed the man a packet and whispered something pointing to the wound on the hind quarter .
the old man ran his hands over him .
then he turned without a word still glancing unsympathetically towards me .
the man led the animal inside and crystal turned towards me and pointed down the road we were to follow .
the evening was wearing on and we were still some miles from our destination , so we walked quickly .
crystal seemed busy with her own thoughts and i remained silent , but the talk about the follower had made me wary and i looked out for shadows at every junction .
after a mile , we passed into the quiet , lonely world of the shopping district at night .
the contrast between the bright family filled shops during the day and the night time squalor was startling .
the dark doorways were home to drunks , dropouts and runaways who muttered oaths at us or shrank back into the shadows as we passed .
crystal ignored them but i found them repulsive and filled with danger .
dirty men with unintelligible slurs waved bottles and asked for money while sinister , silent , black shapes stayed huddled beneath old coats in their dark , squalid corners .
where do these people live ?
i asked .
this is where they live , harry .
dont stop , replied crystal .
we walked on , trying not to look aside as we went .
i saw a shadow emerge from a doorway ahead of us and stand in the darkness .
crystal must have seen it too because she quickly crossed the road and we moved hurriedly on our way .
the shadow figure turned and watched us as we went past .
crystal walked briskly towards the main square ahead where there was more light .
i glanced behind and saw the figure walking swiftly along the opposite pavement .
is that the follower ?
i whispered .
no , i think not .
its something else and i dont like it .
we have to lose it before the 7th district .
well be alone there .
stick close behind and go exactly where i go , she replied , breathlessly as we increased our pace .
a minute later , she darted into a small passageway and up a ramp into an empty car park .
the car park was cavernous and filled with rows of pillars , walls , ramps and lift shafts .
only a handful of cars were there .
we dodged around and on to different levels as stealthily and quietly as we could , until crystal motioned me to stop .
we crouched beside a parapet where we could view the entrance below .
presently , a dark shadow crossed the threshold and entered the building .
it looked about and stood very still for what seemed a long time .
the light in the building was sparse but i caught a glimpse of the eyes as it looked towards us .
i was terrified that it had seen us and felt compelled to stand up .
crystal must have felt something of the same because she held her hand firmly down on my shoulder .
the moment passed and the shadow figure turned back and left the building .
the intensity of the encounter left us both feeling weak , but somehow i knew the danger was over , for the time being .
do we go back down now ?
i asked .
no .
wait for one minute longer , then get up , crystal whispered .
the whir of a lift in the shaft behind us suddenly broke the silence .
before we had time to move , the doors opened and out stepped a shadowy figure towards us and stopped .
the silhouette was a sinister black shape against the light .
my heart pumped erratically and a cold terror gripped me .
i was unable to speak or move .
crystal gripped my hand in hers as we crouched by the parapet .
the lift doors shut and the figure stepped slowly forward into the light .
he opened his mouth and relief flooded over me as muffy grinned at us .
very friendly , he laughed looking at our clasped hands .
i see you keep the wrong kind of company , he continued in a voice that sounded too loud .
he walked to the parapet and looked over .
two more figures emerged from the shadows as tuffy and puffy strolled into view .
they waved and laughed .
come on , lets go , someone called .
the other members of the gang soon joined us .
i felt a sudden great affection for them all as we jogged casually and confidently down the ramp and onto the street .
the staring faces in the shop doorways no longer swore or begged .
they stepped back in fear as the gang swept by .
i began to realise that the down and outs respected and revered the big city gang .
before we left the shopping district , tuffy turned and threw down a parcel in the street .
he looked straight into my questioning face .
theyll be fighting over that all night , he said and he laughed .
the package contained some of the money from the casino raid .
tuffy wanted to make sure that the news got back that it was the big city gang who had planned the robbery .
in the distance , a figure stood alone and watching from the end of the street .
we jogged on through the 7th district and the deserted factories .
the high spirits were infectious and , before long , the gang song was ringing out from the warehouse walls .
the singing died down to silence as we approached the labyrinth of tunnels and the stream of shadows slipped unseen into their hide out and secured the doors behind them .
we entered the star chamber as before and feasted for an hour .
the gang told tales of their exploits .
even i told of our ride home and the shadowy figures we had seen .
crystal alone was quiet .
as time went on i found i couldnt help looking at her .
why was she so silent ?
i was not the only one to notice .
tuffy , too , kept darting looks at her and then at me .
it was well into the early hours before we started to think of sleep .
everyone felt tired when the gang split up to retire for the night .
harry , lets go .
ill show you where you can hole up for the night , said crystal .
okay , i replied .
hurry back crystal , called tuffy .
i thought i saw him give me an unfriendly look as we left the room .
i looked forward to a life on the streets with the impregnable big city gang .
i foolishly thought that i was already a member .
crystal led me down a maze of passages and into a small room .
she stopped and spoke .
harry , will you come with me ?
i had , by then , forgotten her plan of escape .
what , where ?
i asked stupidly .
home , of course , im going home , she replied sternly .
now !
sometimes i wonder about you .
you cant stay here .
do you want to stay here without me to look after you ?
think about it if you like , but im going now .
she added .
but how , and what about the follower and those other men ?
i stammered .
no one will see us and by morning we will have left the big city .
please come , i would like you to come , but we must go now .
but i should be home you could show me where to find the ferry and ill go .
i was getting upset and confused .
the big city gang would be , at best , uncomfortable without crystal and i began to realise that i , too , was away from home in a strange place .
even crystal was strange .
could i really trust her ?
i suddenly had a crazy thought that if we left now for the ferry , then perhaps i could still get home before i was missed .
no , harry .
you idiot !
its gone 3.00am .
if you so much as show your face up there in the middle of the night theyll find you and take you .
theyre waiting for you .
at least something is .
and anyway , tuffys waiting for me and thats worse , and she caught my eye .
think about it , harry .
im a girl or didnt you notice ?
she continued , but to herself , maybe not , maybe thats why i like you ?
there was a moments silence .
crystal tried again , gently but firmly this time .
trust me , harry .
we can help each other but we need to start right now .
you said you couldnt trust someone you didnt know .
well , youre wrong .
i dont know you , but i know enough to trust you .
i trust you , harry .
this matters to me .
a new insistent tone was in crystals voice .
you matter to me .
i could go on my own but i would be scared and lonely .
come with me , now .
i need you .
this is my only chance and i really , really need you .
crystal pushed back her hair and for the first time in minutes i could really see her face .
her eyes were shining , damp .
perhaps i am a little slow , a little dense sometimes .
perhaps this was an experience too new .
i stood stupidly , blinking at the floor .
crystal reached out a hand and put it on my shoulder .
she stood looking straight at my downcast eyes .
i could not help myself , i had to look up and meet her own questioning eyes .
from that moment , i had no choice and she knew she had won .
i nodded my assent .
with a beaming smile on her face , and to my total amazement , she hugged me , before we walked , both elated , into the twisting passages again .
i began to recognise some of the places we had passed earlier in the day and , by the time we had reached the heavy bulkhead door , i realised that crystal meant to escape along the old underground river .
we opened the door and went in .
i saw the water , and the canoe was as we had left it .
we heaved the heavy door shut and turned the bolt .
it was pitch black within the sound of the water was loud and close in the deep dark surrounding us .
well be all right once we are in the canoe , but we must do without the lights , said crystal .
tuffy turns them off at bed time !
she added .
i was still carrying my duffel bag , which i had not left for fear of losing it , and i triumphantly pulled out my small torch the same one that i had taken to sgurr cavan .
even with a torch , getting into the canoe was a performance .
but soon we were ready to cast off .
a new adventure had begun .
the river flowed against us but we made steady , if slow , progress upstream .
we only used the torch sparingly to show the way ahead .
it was hard to keep from scraping into the slimy walls .
we were travelling under the city , on the uncharted waters of the ancient secret river .
on and on we went , through the darkness towards our freedom .
the splash of the paddles echoed from the roof .
the water flowed almost silently about the slender craft as it moved .
we passed unseen openings that we felt in the darkness .
there , streams entered or weirs poured water off to other unknown places .
there must have been hundreds of tunnels and drains down there .
the evidence around us showed that craftsmen had built it .
millions of bricks lined the tunnels and arches .
once or twice , we glimpsed light where street lights shone through the cracks of a distant drain high above , but the river was a secret world .
it belonged to us that night .
we must follow the river right across the city and out through the marsh .
if we stick to it , it will take us all the way home .
but on the way there is a small job we have to do .
crystal sounded a little different and there was a new assertiveness in her tone .
she was the leader of the gang now .
several hours passed and i felt very tired .
the sound of the water and the rhythm of the paddling were lulling me into a dreamy wakefulness .
suddenly , crystal lifted her paddle aboard and pulled the canoe over to a small landing stage .
there , up there , shine the torch , she said in an excited voice .
i pointed the beam up towards a slanting shaft that dropped down from the darkness and within it i could see , quite clearly , the form of six white pillowcases tied to a rope , hanging from a rusty ladder .
chapter seven secret river i scrambled up the sloping culvert .
above me the pillowcases were hanging down in the dark .
the old iron ladder was broken but sufficient remained to provide a footrest .
the last of the cases dangled , almost out of reach , and i had to stretch out above the void to grab the rope and untie the end .
i gripped the pillowcase and began to clamber down but the cotton snagged on a broken railing and the whole parcel of money fell from my hand and slithered down into the dark .
look out below , i shouted and then i followed back down to the canoe .
by the time i reached the bottom again , crystal was sitting , cross legged in the canoe , with the grimy wet pillowcase in front of her .
sorry !
i said and sat down again .
crystal laughed and the echoes rebounded in choruses of happiness .
what about the others ?
i asked .
i only take my fair share , she replied .
they trust me , i respect them thats how it works .
we extracted the bags of money and stowed the haul in a dry sack from the front of the boat before we set off into the dark again .
but the moneys stolen what if the police find us ?
i asked .
you heard tuffy .
gambling is a bad habit .
were just saving people from themselves .
in any case , its only money .
they make the money .
they make the rules .
but we dont have to play the game .
anyway , the money isnt for me .
the hands that had toiled to build the canal were forgotten but we felt we knew them from their work .
i thought that they must have been a dignified and purposeful people .
travelling through their tunnel was a strange experience .
we were escaping and yet the tunnel held us captive within its dark subterranean universe .
the black brick lined tube seemed endless and remote from the living world .
the loss of our sight enhanced our other senses we became breeze detectives .
temperature , smell and feeling filled our thoughts .
despite the sounds around us , it was the most completely quiet place i had ever known .
a peaceful reverence pervaded the tunnel and demanded a respectful silence .
we learned to see with a worms eye view but , ever in the distance , we held the image of the pinprick of light , as yet unseen , that marked the entrance to the real world that lay beyond .
the tunnel continued for many miles .
we paddled at a regular pace deep into the night , resting occasionally , for the journey under the city was long and arduous .
after such a long day , we both felt very sleepy .
although we did not want to stop until we felt sure we were safe and free , tiredness overcame us .
we found a railing , not far beyond the drain in the park , to which we could secure the canoe while we slept .
the canoe was not good accommodation for two to sleep .
not wide enough to sleep side by side and too short to be end to end .
we covered ourselves as best as possible with our jackets and laid our heads on the sack of money in the centre of the canoe .
good night harry , yawned crystal , and thanks .
we both slept fitfully , and uncomfortably , curled up in the bottom of our boat .
the water dripped constantly from the roof all around but , thankfully , little of it landed on us .
the absolute darkness was unnerving and i found it impossible to measure the passage of time in the endless deep night of the tunnel .
we woke up cold and hungry on sunday , in the lightless dawn of a false morning .
crystal had planned her escape well and we had rations from the rat proof tin hidden in the bow .
after a meagre snack , we set off again , moving through the darkness of the subterranean day .
my back ached from a hard night in the canoe but it was good to be going again .
the tunnel turned through a series of wide curves , first one way , then another .
there were many other passages leading into the main channel and we moved in constant fear of losing our way or being swept over a weir .
it was slow going and we had to guess the right way .
twice we had to back out of dead ends .
all through the day we hardly spoke but i never felt the need .
often crystal would start to hum as we paddled along .
once she started to sing but immediately stopped .
go on , i said , i love to hear you sing .
no , no , not yet .
i wont sing until we are safe , until we are free .
and so we paddled on in silence .
it was early in the evening before we finally approached the tunnel entrance .
the last few hundred yards of the tunnel had numerous junctions and the main channel sub divided into two equal parts .
after consulting the compass , we chose the left route and continued on our way .
disturbingly , the tunnel seemed to be getting smaller until we had to duck to avoid hitting our heads .
but we could smell a change in the air .
there was something free infiltrating the close confines , a hint of freshness in the darkness .
the ever lowering roof was disquieting and it was not until we emerged from the final bend that we saw a light in the distance .
the last rosy flare of sunset reflected off the water and was creeping in through the hazy evening air .
all thought of tiredness had dropped away from our cramped limbs and we paddled with renewed vigour .
i felt a new excitement thrill through me as we piloted our canoe swiftly along .
the pinpoint quickly grew to an inverted horseshoe shaped opening .
the air in the gloom became fresher still and distant sounds penetrated the tunnel .
the bright dynamics of the natural world released our blinkered , stifled senses .
our small craft came to rest by a heavy and rusty iron grating that lay like a portcullis across the entrance .
we peered out through the bars that imprisoned us and my heart sank .
now what do we do ?
i asked .
dont worry , there will be a way out , crystal replied .
lets see what we can see first .
there was a vast empty mistiness outside that covered a marsh .
it filled the air as far we could see .
as we watched , the evening sun dipped to the horizon far to the right , through clouds that looked like mountains .
there was no sign of human habitation , but there was ample wildlife the raucous calls of ducks and geese , great billowing clouds of gnats and mosquitoes , and the occasional plop of a rat entering water filled the air ahead .
the night descended quickly across the marshes and we were in darkness once more .
we should sleep now , said crystal .
at least this will be a safe place to stay for tonight .
i could see that it was safe perhaps it was too safe .
how could we break through the barrier ahead ?
but we were tired and we tied up the canoe inside the grating .
we lay as best we could beneath our coats in the cool dark .
sleep soon overcame the discomfort and the big city filled my dreams .
i awoke with a start .
i looked nervously around and expected to see the familiar surroundings of my bedroom .
where was i ?
i slowly recalled the previous night but , disturbingly , the canoe was no longer at the tunnel entrance and crystal was nowhere about .
i was alone .
my first thought was shes abandoned me .
shes left me .
i felt a slight panic as the thought hit me .
then i settled .
no , she would not have done that .
but where was she and where was i ?
used to the dark after our days of perpetual night , i could make out the outline of the tunnel and could tell that this was some kind of junction with several other tunnels leading off in different directions .
i felt about for my torch , but it was gone .
crystal must have taken it .
i settled down to wait .
there was little else i could do .
trust me , she had said .
now was the time for trust .
i could hear a strange noise in the distance and it was coming nearer .
it sounded like a high pitched wind and whatever it was , it was heading towards me .
suddenly a black shadow shot overhead , then another and another .
i dropped to floor of the canoe .
the rushing noise turned into a squealing screech as hoards of bats flew overhead .
the air was thick with the creatures .
they flew inches from my head and filled the whole tunnel .
there must have been thousands of the tiny mammals .
the air was solid black .
the noise was deafening .
the animals started landing on me where i crouched in the canoe .
i could feel them in my hair .
i was enveloped by hundreds of tiny bats , flapping and squealing .
i tried to beat them off but they were crawling over my arms and face and biting my hands .
their claws were razor sharp on my hands and scalp .
it was hard to breathe and the air stank .
more and more came and crowded all around me .
there were too many and some had their tiny talons in my cheeks .
i dared not open my eyes .
i could not open my mouth to shout for help .
in the panic of the moment i had to do something .
i tried to stand up but the mass of bats made it impossible .
i did the only thing i could think of and tumbled out of the canoe into the river and submerged myself completely .
the bats dropped off me in a mad confusion .
i stayed under as long as i could hold my breath and then emerged gasping .
to my horror , i was immediately attacked .
ducking under i waded half waddling down the tunnel .
every few seconds i put my head out for a breath .
each time there were still bats , but fewer and fewer .
then i stood up and walked , half running down the tunnel , turning and twisting through a dozen junctions until i was surrounded by silence .
i stood dripping in the inky black .
the bats had gone and i was completely lost .
i found the edge of the tunnel , slimy with weed and slowly made my way back to the first junction .
i could discern at least three other ways out .
crystal , crystal , where are you ?
i said out loud .
it sounded so loud that my voice turned to a whisper as fear overtook me .
i stood silently .
it was completely dark but i could feel the water moving past my legs .
of course , of course .
just follow the flow .
i started walking on and at every junction i stopped still until i could feel the water flowing past .
a few minutes later i came to large tunnel junction .
i was sure i was back in the main tunnel .
i followed the walls until i came to a ledge and suddenly cracked my shins on the canoe .
dim light could be seen reflecting off the water in the far distance .
suddenly it was blotted out .
involuntarily i tensed in expectation .
but no noise followed .
i moved all the dry things in the canoe out of the way and climbed dripping onto the thwart .
there was a long passageway beside me leading off at a tangent from the main channel but still wide enough to take the canoe .
i was ready to loosen the painter and paddle round out of sight .
a minute later , after i had soothed my stiff limbs , i saw the shadowy shape of crystal wading through the water towards me .
getting closer she turned on the torch .
she carried her trousers draped over her shoulder .
chrissy , over here , i whispered .
her welcoming smile dropped when she saw me .
whatevers happened to you ?
you look like youve fallen out of the boat .
are you all right ?
im fine , i lied , just had a bit of a surprise .
she shone the torch on my face and gasped .
harry !
youre hurt .
i didnt know it but my face was covered in blood from the bats attack .
bats , i explained , what about you ?
ive been busy .
its all right , ive found a way out , she announced .
she threw her clothes into the canoe and then climbed in herself , dripping wet .
come on , sleepy head , she said , this way , well be out in a minute .
then we can sort you out .
i should never have left you .
we paddled up the small tunnel .
the roof was so low that we had to duck and the walls were so close that there was barely room to swing the paddle round but the entrance soon appeared ahead of us , and it was open .
we glided through into the morning sun , between two high banks of reeds and marsh flowers .
as we emerged , an otter sitting on the bank watched us bemusedly .
i need this .
boy do i need this .
daylight at last , i said .
i wanted to smile but the pain of my face stopped me .
youre soaked through .
over to the bank and sit there for a bit in the sun while i clean you up .
crystal played mother , while i played the little boy .
she knelt beside me .
bit by bit she used her handkerchief to clean my face , gently washing off the blood with water from the stream .
as she did so , i watched her eyes only inches from mine .
dont , she whispered , catching me with a direct glance youre distracting me .
sorry , i mumbled and looked away , blushing .
there , she smiled , it looked worse than it was .
the perimeter of the big city airport lay out of sight on its man made plateau .
the terminal was already coming noisily to life a mile behind us .
do we leave the canoe here ?
i asked .
this stream seems to be very shallow .
the keel was scraping the soft muddy bottom of the silted channel as we came through .
no , replied crystal .
well walk , but we cant walk through the marsh .
what then ?
well get out , but we will keep the canoe for our things and for sleeping .
without us weighing it down it should float fine and we can walk up the river bed , or along the bank .
remember , this is not the main channel .
if we can rejoin it we may be able to paddle again .
do you know where we are going ?
i asked , looking around .
the marsh was covered in mist that seemed to form a white wall in the distance .
crystal didnt reply immediately but gazed into the mist .
she pointed vaguely ahead and said quietly over there , thats home .
for you , but not for me , i replied sadly .
i dont think ill ever get home .
but crystal did not seem to hear me .
she was still looking across the marsh .
i looked into the mist again but saw nothing across the blanket of white .
so i turned my attention to the immediate need .
what can we eat ?
i asked and then answered my own question .
look at all those fish in the shadows !
they wont bite us , will they ?
no .
well bite them , laughed crystal .
lets eat fish !
well have to catch them first , i observed .
dont move .
stay absolutely still , she replied .
crystal stood in the water watching and waiting .
slowly , she crouched down , close to the bank and stayed motionless a bare legged statue .
her concentration on her task seemed to be total .
i looked on , fascinated and entranced .
she was in communion with nature .
it was a moment of discovery for me .
this strange girl was at once selfless and nave , yet full of knowledge and experience .
in that moment , i felt a warmth inside me that i had known before .
i knew i was with a friend , a new friend and it seemed almost dreamlike to me , to be there alone with this magical girl .
the fish moved through the shadows by the river bank and hung in the current , drifting into crystals shadow .
her hands were in the water .
very gently , crystal stroked the bodies of two large trout that sheltered in her shade .
with the smallest rhythmical movements she seemed to entrance the fish into submission .
she was completely involved in her task .
suddenly , and without warning , it was over .
she had caught the two trout and landed them on the bank .
the gleaming , silvery fish were both stunned on the gunwale and crystal took out her knife and headed towards the tunnel .
using a brick wall as a workbench she gutted and beheaded the fish .
youve done that before , i can see .
come on , she called , bring the canoe .
i took the rope and followed her back into the shadows .
blinded by the dark of the tunnel , i hung back by the entrance for a minute .
i tied up the canoe and , under orders from crystal , i went back out to find sufficient dry material for a small fire .
i used my knife to good effect and returned to the tunnel with an armful of reeds and rushes , together with two pieces of driftwood that i found caught up on the riverbank .
crystal pulled a tin out of the bottom of the canoe while i made up the fire on a ledge .
the matches had thankfully not been in my pocket when i went under the water .
we were still within sight of the entrance where two tunnels branched .
the flickering light spread ghastly shadows across the old brickwork and the fire smoked somewhat .
each fish was skewered on two sticks and held over the flames .
i was pleased of the warmth in my wet clothes .
but we quickly doused the flames when the fish had cooked .
we sat at the edge of the tunnel to eat our meal .
the food was rudimentary but satisfying .
the tunnel flues had drawn the smoke into the darkness and we hoped that it would disperse before it emerged .
we returned with the canoe to the daylight cautiously and started to walk up the river .
crystal was in front but she turned and gave me an odd look and then laughed .
silly harry !
she said still looking at me , you cant walk in the river like that .
youll need dry clothes to sleep in tonight .
i could feel myself blushing once more .
i had been dreading this moment .
its all right , she smiled .
ill look the other way .
i knew she was right .
i wrung out my sodden socks and trousers and draped them in the canoe to dry in the sun .
i felt like me again and i began to enjoy my adventure .
there was a grey smoky pall that hung above the big city behind us .
it was a mixture of mist and pollution that made up that peculiar atmosphere , and which seemed somehow apt .
we both felt secure in the marsh where we were practically invisible in the vastness of our surroundings .
there were no roads near the place and , with luck , our long passage through the secret river tunnel had deadened the scent for any followers that might have attempted to find us .
the late summer sun kept us warm in our watery surroundings .
my clothes soon dried and we made reasonable progress .
even if we were seen , there was no reason we should attract any special attention .
the edge of the airport soon became just a noisy blot amongst the general haze behind us .
ahead , the air cleared and by midday we could see across to the far side of the marsh into the distance beyond .
the firm banks of the stream receded back and high reed beds surrounded us on either side making our progress invisible to all , except from the air .
down at water level , it was a small private world .
the stream we were walking along seemed to keep , more or less , on a course for the far side of the marsh , albeit not in a straight path .
fortunately , crystal seemed to be in her element among the reed beds and walked ahead , reading the way with precision .
our side stream joined the main river and i heard crystal sigh as she stood and looked at the scene .
the water channel seemed half empty .
we would not be able to row our canoe after all .
damn the dam , she hissed .
the further we progressed along the old river , the narrower the channel snaking down the old broad river bed became .
a gradual change took place in our surroundings and the reeds on either side gave way to tussocky humps that protruded from the boggy brown peat .
cotton grass waved its white fluffy heads at the waters edge and occasional half fallen alder trees attempted to grow in the stonier places .
the river widened a little where the marsh gave way to firmer ground and the water channelled into rivulets with low banks .
our way led us to a sparse woodland of crack willows .
they stood , twisted , gnarled and ancient , half leaning , half fallen in the swamp .
we stopped in their shade .
the evening was approaching and the water was becoming too cold on our bare legs for us to walk in the river for much longer .
we tied up the canoe and made camp for the night on some firm ground , in among the trees .
some ducks eggs and sorrel leaves that crystal had collected earlier in the day extended our fishy diet .
we did not cook our meal until the evening mist had started to descend to hide the smoke from our fire .
while we ate , a glorious sunset flooded the misty skies with crimson and gold .
we looked on and quietly talked .
how much further do we have to go before we get somewhere ?
i asked .
i think we will reach the high ground beyond the marsh some time tomorrow .
what then ?
we keep going .
we should be home in two days at most , if we stick at it .
this rivers not getting any deeper .
we will have to leave the canoe soon .
we should sort our things , i suggested , and get rid of anything we dont need .
okay .
we dont have much but we wont want to carry all of it .
we emptied the contents of our bags into the bottom of the canoe and removed the unwanted items .
by the time we had finished , we had made room for the money , that had been in the pillowcase , to be spread through our other luggage .
we each had a modest backpack and crystal also had a small holdall she had placed in the canoe in preparation for her journey .
we tested the weight of our luggage and decided that we had done enough .
there was a pile of oddments , which we needed to throw out , left heaped in the bottom of the canoe .
i picked up a neat , well made wooden box , that crystal had put there .
oh , thats not to go , she cried .
give it here !
so saying , she grabbed the box from me .
im sorry , crystal , i said .
its just that , well , ive got a box just like that at home .
oh , really , she said indignantly , well , this is mine .
the one i have doesnt really belong to me , i explained .
my father gave it to me .
i use it to keep something in .
whats in yours ?
my mother gave it to me .
its very , very old .
i put my hand in my jacket pocket and looked at her steadily .
crystal , this is important , i said .
you told me to get rid of whatever i had that the followers wanted back in the big city .
well i didnt .
ive got it here .
if i show you what i keep in my box , then will you show me whats inside yours ?
maybe , she replied .
you see , it wasnt the box i recognised , it was that mark on the lid , that funny star .
its not a star , she replied .
its the sign of the double cross .
i took the white crystal from my pocket where it lay concealed in the small leather pouch and unwrapped it .
it was almost dark by then but the brilliant stone reflected a glimmer of light and shone out .
crystal caught her breath and stared at the precious stone .
slowly , she opened her box and unwrapped the item inside .
she placed her hand beside mine and a second crystal glowed two stars in the deepening mists .
we both looked at them for a long time in the growing dark .
suddenly i had a thought .
crystal , take this stone and place it beside yours .
the stones lay in her hand .
i moved them together and , as if by magic , the two stones became one they fitted together seamlessly they must have been crystals from the same rock .
we both looked into her palm where the newly united stones glinted like jewels .
do you know what these stones are ?
i asked quietly as i took her hand in mine and gently separated the crystals .
i lifted my crystal and returned it to its hiding place .
yes , she quavered , well i think so .
theyre special stones , like a talisman .
my mother told me it was special she said to keep it safe , always .
she was right , but they are more than special they are magic .
do you believe in magic ?
i dont know , she replied .
this is magic , i said , us meeting , coming here , going where were going .
no chance in million years could have brought us together with these white crystals .
we dont need to think about it , it is .
perhaps , said crystal dreamily .
who knows .
chance is a strange thing .
but i think we should sleep now .
im tired and its dark , and theres still a long way to go tomorrow .
on tuesday morning , our journey continued through the marshes .
we were both becoming weary of the watery wilderness that surrounded us .
we needed shelter and good food .
we found it difficult to walk through the soft ground and muddy streambeds , and we felt tired .
as the water channels grew smaller , we often had to heave the canoe through the reeds or over banks of coarse grass .
the air in the marshes was humming with insects that constantly surrounded us and got into our hair , and mouth and eyes .
i think well call this place the midge marsh , joked crystal , as she waved her hand at the clouds of insects that surrounded us .
the swarms of mosquitoes left us sore and itching .
dank pools of water bubbled on either side of the fresh water streams and foul marsh gas filled the air with a loathsome stench .
at one point , we stumbled into a nest of water snakes .
the sinister creatures slid off in all directions as we jumped into the canoe for safety .
we kept a wary eye open for any more marsh creatures as we ventured forth again .
i dont like this much , i admitted .
something here makes me uneasy .
cant you feel it ?
yes , me too .
something up ahead .
i think theres something waiting up there .
dont know what .
were heading towards it , but its the only way we can go .
sooner we reach those woods the better , i replied .
we can take cover there .
on tuesday night , we slept in the canoe for the last time .
for safety , we moored it in the centre of the small river , for once broadened into a substantial pond by a barrier of silt .
the air was much colder than on previous nights but we managed well enough .
we had become used to our hard , cramped sleeping quarters and both slept well .
we awoke early on wednesday morning , to the sound and sensation of falling rain .
a few feet from the canoe , a heron stood with one foot in the water and a quizzical expression on its face .
the great bird flapped its wings awkwardly and slowly ascended to fly away south .
we were both damp and cold , so we decided to proceed without breakfast until we could find shelter .
the days journey began .
we paddled to the edge of the pond and walked through the relative cover , but sometimes difficult terrain , of sparse woodland .
i began to see sandstone and shale in the banks on either side where they lay in miniature cliffs and terraces that rose up to firmer ground .
twice , i glimpsed the iridescent flash of a kingfisher , flying from a hole in a bank .
by midday , the woodland had closed to a forest of oak and beech and the marshland was behind us .
the river spread out to a shallow stony brook just a few inches deep and the time had come to let the canoe go .
we carried it to a deep pool beneath a small waterfall and filled it with stones and water until it sank .
we were sad to leave it behind it had been a good home .
gathering our packs , we walked up through the woods to the top of a small rocky hill from where we could view the land about .
fortunately , the rain had stopped and the air was clear .
it surprised me that i could no longer see the big city in the distance behind .
even the marsh beyond the woodland was indistinct .
we knew we would encounter signs of human habitation again somewhere ahead of us and we planned to buy some wholesome food as soon as we could .
there was a well trodden path up the hill that led towards a road and that meant there must be a village or town somewhere in the distance .
i passed the time while we were walking along the path by telling crystal something of the legend of mythras , but i did not include the story of my own crystal or of my journey across the water .
eventually , we saw roofs in the distance .
we struck out across the heathland towards the settlement .
we finally walked into the main square of a small town , in the late afternoon .
we were both tired and hungry .
the place was a small , attractive market town , and ideal for our purpose .
it appeared to be a holiday destination for big city folk and there were a few sightseers walking about .
we had already decided to pose as hikers on holiday , if the need arose .
we bought a map and some snacks from a small shop and found a quiet place to rest and eat .
the money from the pillowcase was much more than we had expected , but crystal did not intend to use any of the ill gotten windfall on our journey .
she said it would be too dangerous .
instead , she had a small sum of her own , some of which we used to buy food .
we went to a camping shop and used the last of crystals money to buy a tiny inconspicuous tent .
we then set off to find shelter for the night .
we decided that woodland would be the best place to stay and we located a forest area on our map .
it was on a hill some miles above the town and appeared to provide perfect cover .
carrying our heavy loads slowed our passage , but eating a wholesome meal had improved our spirits and renewed our strength .
the evening was beautiful and we were happy to take time to reach our destination .
we came to a steep valley , deep in the woods , where there was a grove of ancient yew trees .
it was very quiet and even sullen .
there was no bird song in the place and the silence was so complete that it was intimidating and made us whisper .
the dark vale was not ordinarily inviting but fulfilled our wish for a quiet undisturbed halt for the night .
our presence there would be almost invisible even from within the coomb .
at the bottom of the wood there was a small clearing where we made our camp beside a stream .
we decided not to light any fires , having already eaten , but to go directly to sleep and rise at first light in the morning and get a long days travelling under our belts once we were refreshed .
inside the tent , we could shut out the mournful gloom of the silent valley and before long we fell into a restless sleep .
several times i awoke to the sound of animals moving outside .
i heard the rustling leaves and quiet snuffling sounds as the creatures of the night searched for food .
in that sombre quiet even the clicking of beetles in the undergrowth seemed loud .
i felt tense as i lay listening to the night .
the deep black darkness was so dense that i felt it was crushing me .
it was somehow more sinister than the tunnels had been .
i drifted back into an uneasy sleep .
crystal woke up in the early hours and awakened me .
it was not yet light but something about her manner seemed agitated and there was urgency in her voice .
i dont like this place , she whispered .
lets up and go .
i dont like it either .
i replied .
its eerie .
silently , we gathered our belongings .
we did not use the torch .
suddenly , in the distance , we heard a strange noise .
we both stopped stock still and waited but there was silence .
it could have been an animal or maybe not .
it chilled us both .
lets leave the tent .
well collect it later .
i whispered .
i slid out into the dark and crystal handed out our bags .
i cautiously crept behind a nearby bush .
the air was tense and too still , as though a storm might be approaching .
crystal followed and we flitted bush by bush and tree by tree back up to the head of the small coomb .
it was too dark in the valley to see anything , but along the ridge of the hill the night sky showed as a lighter grey behind the silhouettes of the trees .
we crouched very still and looked all around for several slow silent minutes .
the feeling of unease persisted , but it felt better out in the open where we would not be surprised .
the strange sound came again , something like the howl of a vixen , closer this time .
suddenly , we saw them two strange shadows on the top of the hill .
they stood quite still .
they seemed to be sniffing the air .
i nearly stopped breathing .
they stood only a few hundred yards away and they were looking down into the valley .
they moved and then disappeared .
i almost panicked but i stood my ground .
i could hear a faint movement below , in the dark , and then all went quiet for a moment .
a second later , there was a distant metallic scratching sound followed quickly by a blaze of fire .
they had set the tent alight and the valley filled with a furious but brief inferno .
we watched the two daemonic figures dancing round the blazing tent .
the flames spread their ghoulish shadows over the trees and the strange animal cries echoed through the woods , triumphant and loud .
it was ghastly but enchanting .
crystal tugged my hand and we ran , as fast as we could , away from the terror .
we bounded through the undergrowth dragging our packs along with us .
the twigs snapped at us and brambles scratched our faces and hands , but still we kept running .
we saw the pale light of a clearing ahead and we stopped still , standing with heaving breath and pounding hearts .
there was a forest road in front of us bounded by a high laurel hedge .
behind us , all was now silent .
we crawled into the hedge and were hidden .
lets wait here til daybreak , i whispered hoarsely .
i took crystals hand and felt it was hot and trembling .
i pulled her gently to the ground and we sat down back to back inside the hedge and waited and waited .
time passed slowly .
we saw no one except the shadows of the trees and we heard nothing but the wind in the branches .
the dawn showed grey in the sky and the frightening events of the night seemed to fade away into dreams .
i cant stay here any longer , im freezing .
lets go , said crystal suddenly .
okay .
well be safe now its getting light .
a small confidence had returned with the sun and we stood up and stepped out onto the dirt road to continue our journey .
immediately we walked out there was a sudden noise behind us the awful call of the strange men .
we saw them at the edge of the woodland track .
they started to run towards us and we ran too , but it was no use .
oh , harry !
theyre going to catch us , cried crystal .
well have to fight them , i shouted back .
make a stand .
we stopped , turned and stood together , panting .
i felt for crystals hand .
they were around fifty yards away .
we dropped our packs and faced them as they raced towards us .
they wore tattered black robes and carried long poles .
deep hoods shaded their faces .
we stood gripping each others hand .
wait til they get close and , when i say , run round , one each side .
i said in a trembling voice .
just twenty feet to go and i opened my mouth to shout , now !
suddenly , they stopped .
there was absolute silence .
we stood shivering with fear but resolute , and they stood a few yards away with poles raised to strike .
i could feel tears of terror rising in my eyes .
crystals hand gripped mine resolutely .
in the silence i heard the blood pumping through my head .
but something had changed them they turned quickly and fled back down the road like a pair of frightened dogs .
we looked at each other , confused and wondering .
spontaneously we hugged each other with relief but dare not turn away .
oh , crystal !
i thought we were going to die .
or worse , she replied .
why did they go ?
i dont know , but lets get out of here before they return .
again , we picked up our packs and turned to walk on but stopped still where we stood .
on the path fifty paces behind us stood two large horses surmounted by two riders who looked sternly down .
the finely dressed horsemen wore uniforms of gold and deep green .
the chestnut horses wore silken gold and green cloths beneath their saddles .
the cloths bore the symbol of the double cross .
what now ?
i whispered .
is this good or bad ?
look , the double cross , crystal whispered back .
the riders approached slowly .
the gold horseman spoke clearly in a deep , steady voice , so , we have found you , and just in time .
who are you ?
i asked shakily .
we are lords of the double cross , spoke the emerald lord , and we have an interest in the prize you carry with you .
you will be safe with us , said his companion , the gold lord .
follow us now , from this place , before your unwanted friends return .
so saying , he turned his horse about and walked slowly away .
crystal looked at me .
they seem to know a lot , she whispered .
well have to go , i replied resignedly .
at least they look civilised , if somewhat out of our time .
i feel like ive walked into some medieval dream .
the emerald lord dismounted and signalled to me to walk ahead of him .
he bade crystal to ride in the saddle as he took the reins to lead the great horse on .
you know how to handle even this great horse , i think .
there was little alternative but to do as requested by these strange folk .
the terror of the night was still fresh in my mind and here seemed , at least , to be a safe passage away from our unknown aggressors .
the size and strength of the horses and the bearing of the men bred confidence and security .
also , there was a fascination .
who were these people ?
how did they know where we were ?
what was the significance of the double cross ?
where would they take us ?
all of these questions filled my mind in the minutes after we met the horsemen .
our small band on the forest track seemed mysteriously ancient .
the silence of the woods removed all thoughts of modern life from my mind .
the noble horses and finely dressed lords all walking together along the mossy way , surrounded by the dripping misty trees , were like a picture from a romantic childhood story .
the fluting lazy late summer song of the birds combined with the earthy smell of approaching autumn in the air to lead us into a dream like unreality .
we accepted our new companions as saviours from we knew not what .
i had the strange feeling that there was some larger play being enacted of which i was just a part .
yet i had also become aware that this step into a new history was also linked to the magic of mythras and the white crystal .
it seemed as if we were travelling backward through time into an old and different future .
i looked about me at the passing trees and they almost seemed to be watching us .
the emerald lord caught my eye and began to recite a poem .
his deep bass voice was as reassuring as the words were beautiful .
in the forest reach for me a fine tree and hold it in your eye .
dark and free , a pine tree sharp silhouette against the sky .
the wind plays with breezes on the branches while the sun ignites their colours with fiery glances .
luxuries of beech woods fill the earth up to the sky .
like chameleons of the seasons , their fables filled with reasons they are the truth , they never lie .
but when the winter freezes , cold and ghostly skeletons haunt the forest floor .
despite that death exterior , their hearts are warm with life suspended in the core the voices whisper sleeping where in their dreams is time just barely creeping .
on this late summer morning i see the leaves making patterns in my mind an ecstasy of movement , shivering pictures of liquid beauty , shattered mirrors sharpened splinters like icicles of forgotten winters now warmly dancing in the sky .
come reach with me so fine a tree , natures glory in your eye .
i love the words and i see you love the words also , he said and then the emerald lord fell silent .
it was true that something about the poem had filled me with a new hope .
only a good man and true would hold such things sacred .
the party moved on ahead steadily and quietly , accompanied by the soft footfall of the horses hooves in the leaf mould and the forest sounds of bird , wind and stream .
the path took us upwards towards the hilly crown of the woods .
in my reverie , i walked contentedly .
it seemed to me that reality had become a dream .
within me , i felt these men could be trusted , at least for now .
after a while , crystal spoke .
where are we going ?
to a safe place .
you must know that you have inadvertently put yourselves in danger .
we have found you but you must not be followed any more .
you have seen the follower ?
asked the gold lord .
were those two followers ?
i asked .
no , replied the emerald lord , they were not so dangerous , little more than local villains .
the follower is not so forward in his ways .
yes , i replied .
we have seen the shadow of the follower .
but not since we left the big city .
that is good , said the emerald lord .
i think that you left by an ancient way of which even he is unaware .
you must trust in us for now , that is all we ask .
how do we know that we can trust you ?
asked crystal .
the gold lord drew his horse back alongside hers and scrutinised her face .
then he said you do not have to know someone to trust them .
i heard crystal draw breath .
the gold lord continued you can not know to trust us .
trust is not gained in so short a while .
we have travelled many miles to find your companion and bring him to safety .
i admit we were not looking for two .
to us , it is perhaps rather the case of whether we can trust you .
we do not expect you to trust us , but by our actions and words we will endeavour to show we are honest , open and true .
should you need to do so , you must judge us but that may not help you .
you are travellers on a journey , foolish , young and brave , but we can offer safe passage in a dangerous land .
we can not give you trust but i will say to you now , that if you wish to go on alone , then , much as it would grieve me , you may do so .
understand that if you did do so , we are obliged by our oath to do all we can to protect you and we will still be there , in the distance , as we have been these past days , watching over you .
the horseman looked on towards the summit that we were approaching and then spoke again .
there is also another matter .
there is one who wishes to speak with your companion .
who ?
i enquired simply .
you may feel you know him already , but you do not .
his name is dr. wolfe .
i shrugged .
i dont know that name .
i have heard him called by other names mythras .
the magician !
i cried .
no , not the same one you may have in mind .
the name of mythras is just a title .
but we will not speak of him more in this place it may not be safe to do so .
our unwelcome companions know where we are so we can assume the follower also knows we are here .
so saying , the gold lord rode ahead again and the party climbed the final slope , to a clearing on the top of the forest .
there , an outcrop of rock had prevented the trees from taking purchase .
that windy place commanded a view around the compass , from the sea in the distance behind us , to the mountains ahead .
they were much closer now and towered on the horizon .
the great slopes rose up , rank upon rank of wooded foothills , through bare escarpments and beyond , to the snow covered peaks that lay glistening in the sun .
looking out , we traced the whole of our journey , from the distant grey smudge that was the big city , through the shimmering flat marshes , across the low level woods , past the town and into the forest below us .
i gazed out to the distant light that was the sea but could not find my island home it was lost to view .
i wondered when and how i would ever return there .
we will stop here and breakfast , said the emerald lord and he unpacked a saddlebag containing food and drink .
you have travelled well and much of the journey is complete .
a cold wind was sweeping across the hills from the distant mountains and , after eating , we returned gratefully to the shelter of the trees .
we travelled on seldom used paths but the horses picked their way carefully over the stones and undergrowth .
the day passed quietly as we journeyed on , deep in thought .
the gold lord rarely spoke and passed most of the time in silence .
the emerald lord seemed freer of mind and talked for a while , pointing out some of the features of the place .
after a lull , he began to chant a ballad of great length and beauty .
it seemed very old and the tune was at once strange and yet familiar .
the rhythm fitted the easy pace of the horses .
i can only recall a few verses now .
the tale was of a minstrel who sailed across the sea and met a princess but , although they fell in love , they had to part and go their separate ways .
if not for the strangeness of the circumstance , the walk was beautiful .
the forest was extensive and vista after vista opened before each ridge , as we climbed slowly towards the towering hills .
the only people we met were the shepherds we passed as they lead their sheep and goats to the winter grazing .
the two lords would always make way for the shepherds and they in their turn would bid us good day .
it struck me that the two lords did not appear to be strangers to these people .
the shepherds would give crystal and me a straight long stare as they passed , but made no comment .
eventually , we came to a long wall that climbed over the hills and out of sight .
it seemed incongruous after travelling so many miles without any sign of mans endeavours .
the party followed the wall around to a track way and a gate .
standing by the gate was an old man dressed in white .
he came forward to speak to the gold lord .
welcome , friend , he said in a firm voice as the great horseman dismounted .
the two men shook hands and a flicker of a smile crossed their faces .
this is dr. wolfe , said the gold lord .
then the old man turned to me and spoke again , welcome to erebos , we have waited long to meet you .
he held out his hand and the firmness of his grip surprised me .
good evening .
i replied timidly .
crystal looked down from her mount .
i saw a look of suspicion in her face .
the old man ignored her and turned towards the house .
i saw a surprised look on the emerald lords face .
i think if i had not been there that crystal might have ridden off at that moment .
we walked through the gateway and into the courtyard of an old house .
the gates closed behind us and were locked .
we left the horses in the care of a groom .
rooks crowed from the massive squat cedar trees that grew beside a sloping lawn .
two cats , one black , one white , strolled beneath the tower walls .
i looked up at the stony heights of the ancient house .
the great building exuded strength and confidence in the certainty of its many years .
we entered across a stone floor through wood panelled halls .
you will be shown to your rooms and , when you are refreshed , i would wish to talk with you in the drawing room , dr. wolfe spoke in an eloquent voice , indicating a large leather covered door beside him .
a youth and a girl appeared and , with a courteous gesture , requested our packs .
i refused politely and crystal followed my example .
the two servants indicated a staircase and we followed them to an upper level where the girl ushered crystal one way and i went the other .
we both wanted to remain together but there was a certain insistence in the gestures of our stewards .
see you in a minute , i said to crystal as we went our separate ways but she remained unusually silent .
my room was sumptuous and grand , but not at all comfortable .
it consisted of a suite of rooms that could have contained a modest house within them .
there was a bathroom , a living room and a bedroom , all of extravagant proportions .
gold and crimson decoration and polished walnut cabinetry was everywhere in the furnishings .
i had never seen so grand a place to me it was a palace and everything within it seemed to be as old as the building that contained it .
despite what the gold lord had told us on the journey and the courtesy that he showed us , i felt somehow trapped .
i had no idea where i was .
strangers , without real names , surrounded me .
i could not tell what the future held .
however , i felt dirty from many days of travel and i needed to refresh myself .
i had not washed properly since leaving home and the dust and tiredness of the long journey was uncomfortable .
i put my luggage carefully into the furthest nook of one of the cabinets and went into the bathroom .
i ran a full , hot bath and enjoyed a glorious and relaxing soak in the cleansing water .
i had already found a change of clothes laid out for me and took advantage of the offering .
the fit was not perfect , being for a stouter figure than my own , but the effect was generally pleasing .
the clothes appeared old fashioned to my eyes but were neither formal nor casual .
i transferred my few precious possessions into the pockets and ventured to the door .
i walked stealthily along the corridor toward the place where i thought crystal was staying and quietly tried to open the doors .
the third door was not locked and i entered a room like the one i had just left , but opposite both in form and furnishing .
i called out quietly , crystal , but heard no reply .
the room was very modern in style and all the furnishings were in black , white , grey and pink .
i ventured to the bedroom door and stole quietly into the room .
crystal was there , unkempt , scruffy , dirty and dressed just as she had been on entering the house .
she hadnt even taken off her shoes .
she was fast asleep on the bed , hugging her ragged backpack .
she seemed vulnerable , young and still beautiful .
gently , i laid my hand on her shoulder and tried to waken her .
she opened her eyes and looked up at me .
she seemed bemused , at first , but the familiar light soon returned to her face .
she rose up on one elbow and smiled quizzically at me .
you look just like one of them , she said and laughed .
i had forgotten my clothes and felt ashamed , as though i had somehow let her down .
she swung off the bed and stood up stretching .
youre right , she yawned .
lets see what theyve left me .
a proper little lady ill look .
i hate fancy dresses , and she picked up a pretty dress and held it up to herself .
i think ill need a belt on that !
it was my turn to laugh .
she stood with her ragged trousers hanging below the dress and smiled .
she looked an angel and a tomboy all rolled into one .
i left her to her ablutions and waited in the living room .
i looked around and found books and maps on the shelves .
excitedly , i opened the maps on the floor .
i found erebos marked and felt relieved that at least this was a real place .
there was no satisfaction in being lost , even in so grand a house as this .
while crystal was engaged in the other room , i managed to trace our journey across four maps .
the long passage from the island of suidhe , across to the big city already seemed like a distant dream .
i followed on through the marshes and woodlands up to the foothills of the snowy mountains , where erebos lay and wondered how we would come out of this place .
the delicate lady that emerged from the bedroom did not appear to me to be the same familiar person who i had seen a short while before .
it was as though a butterfly had broken out from a chrysalis .
i sat on the floor and stared , probably rudely , at the elegant creature that stood before me .
i felt a sudden sense of pride in my companion and crystal did a small pirouette to show off for me .
you might not like dresses but dresses like you , i said .
you look gorgeous , and she laughed for the first time that day .
typical bloke , she replied but i could see she was pleased at the compliment .
nobody had interrupted us , but from below , in the hall , came the sound of a gong .
i realised , after a moment of wondering , it was the call to dinner .
i quickly folded the maps , which i took back to my room to put in my pack , and we descended the stairs together .
the two lords awaited us and showed us into the dining hall where a great table lay spread with a feast .
three of the chairs were already occupied .
dr. wolfe and two other lords stood as we entered and servants showed us to seats on either side of the old man .
two waiters appeared and the meal commenced .
dr. wolfe and the lords were charming and made polite conversation while we ate .
they asked me many questions concerning suidhe and listened with interest to all i told them about the place .
however , i did not tell them of my adventures on sgurr cavan , or the subsequent journeys that brought me to their table .
crystal , in her turn , told them of her fathers farm in the heartland .
she ended by telling them that she would return there soon to help her father in his hour of need .
that is an honourable plan , i think , said dr. wolfe .
yes , you must go soon , of course .
the other lords all agreed and pledged their assistance when the need arose , but crystal said simply , that is kind , but i do not need help , only freedom .
a moment of silence passed .
we had finished our meal , and the conversation closed .
dr. wolfe stood and spoke .
now , my friends , we must all take our rest , for we are all tired .
tomorrow , we have some business to pursue between us then our guests may return safely to their homes .
we will weigh their burdens for them and our world will be safe .
so saying , he turned and walked to the door followed by two of the lords .
the three bowed their heads in unison and said goodnight , before leaving the chamber .
the gold lord and the emerald lord accompanied us to the stairs and bade us sleep soundly and safely .
crystal and i returned upstairs .
at the top of the stairs crystal turned to me and whispered .
should we stay in different rooms ?
i dont feel safe in this place .
well let everyone go to bed and then ill come and find you , i replied .
its still early , we may as well get some rest for a few hours .
we retired to our chambers .
i felt tired and satiated .
night clothes had been laid out on the bed .
i lay on the bed , with a feeling of relief for the comfort it afforded , but with a deepening suspicion of dr. wolfe .
was he not trying too hard to be friendly ?
what did he really want , and why ?
had not mythras the magician of old been a bad man at heart and how was this new mythras different ?
they seemed from the same mould to me .
far into the night i awoke .
the great house was cool in the darkness .
the changing of the seasons had brewed more storms across the mountains .
i got up , went to the window and looked out into the night .
lightning flashed in the distance and the folds of the hills reverberated with the faint but distinct sound of thunder .
rain worried the window glass , dulling the vision .
a feeling of extreme emptiness filled my head as i looked out .
the mountains were still a wild place , untamed by mankind .
somehow , the feeling of wildness penetrated the thick walls of erebos and made me feel uneasy .
the mountains had a life of their own and did not heed mortal men .
erebos was not a welcome intruder .
it was late and the house was silent .
i decided to see if crystal was also awake and went to the door .
i turned the handle but it would not open the door was locked .
i felt angry and worried , but there was nothing i could do to open it , so i returned to the window .
i heard another sound coming from outside in the night and it made my heart stop .
it was the call of an animal not unlike a wolf , the same sound we had heard from the creatures who burnt our tent in the yew wood .
were they roaming through the night outside erebos ?
the awful howling cry came again and filled the night air from somewhere in the woods .
the sound seemed quite close but then there was silence .
i stood in the dark waiting for something more , but all remained quiet .
i shivered as i remembered the fire in the coomb .
the memory almost made me pleased that the door was locked .
there was nothing i could do to get to crystal that night .
but i had no reason to suspect she was in any more danger than i was in this house .
i returned to bed , where i slept fitfully until the morning light awoke me .
chapter eight the snowy mountains immediately i awoke , i went to the door .
it was unlocked .
i went along to crystals room and knocked gently before trying her door .
it opened without difficulty .
crystal was standing looking apprehensive .
a look of relief spread across her face as i came in .
im sorry , i said .
my door was locked .
i couldnt come around .
no worry .
we wont make that mistake a second time , she answered .
just then the gong sounded summoning us to an early breakfast .
we must see what they want today but we will find a moment to plan something , i said and she nodded as we went to the stairs .
the pattern established the previous evening continued on friday morning .
our hosts were formal and polite .
the party enjoyed a good breakfast followed by a tour of erebos and the grounds .
out on the lawns we were escorted by the emerald lord .
last night i heard wolves , or something very like wolves , said crystal .
there are indeed wolves in the hills , but they are not dangerous , unless you are a sheep !
he replied .
but they sounded like the men you rescued us from , she persisted .
ah .
i see your point .
i do not think you need fear those here .
no , the sounds you heard are more likely real wolves .
i would rather meet a real wolf myself .
you really need not concern yourself unless , of course , you were planning to walk out in the night ?
crystal caught my eye but made no reply .
all morning we were chaperoned .
it was clear these people did not intend to leave us alone together for a minute .
but just before lunch crystal excused herself .
when we sat down she dropped a note into my lap unnoticed .
i put it in my pocket for later .
dr. wolfe called me aside after lunch and showed me into his study , shutting the door behind us .
he bade me sit on a chair beside his desk while he paced around the room .
i began to feel nervous on my own .
harry , i am very glad that i have found you .
i know we will get along well .
dont you agree ?
he asked .
yes , i suppose ...
i hesitated .
dr. wolfe ignored me and continued but his voice took on a strange air of obsession as he spoke , as a man possessed .
i felt scared by him but determined not to show it any further .
you know what you have that interests me .
but i do not think that you know what it can do , what it means .
we have to protect our world , harry .
that is the aim of the council of the elders and so they have placed on me the task of caring for the stone that you possess and making it safe .
you see , harry , as long as you have this thing you will be followed by many strangers until one of them obtains this precious stone .
year after year they will follow you until one dark night , all alone ... well you have seen it already , and his words made me immediately suspicious .
had he hired the wolf men ?
he continued .
i think you will see that it is the good thing to do , to let me have the white crystal .
i can take the burden from your shoulders and then you will be able to live in peace again .
is that not so , harry ?
yes , well , maybe , i answered unwillingly .
now , may i see this famous gemstone please ?
i will show you the white crystal , i said hoarsely and then stopped .
i gathered all my nerve to continue , i knew this was a critical moment and my voice came out stronger and clearer than i could have imagined as i gripped the pouch in my pocket , i will show you the crystal because you could always take it from me if you wished , that is clear .
but , before i do , can you show me that you are indeed what you say you are and can you also show me where you will keep the crystal , so i know it will be safe ?
then perhaps we can discuss the value of this precious stone to you and to me .
dr. wolfe seemed surprised and annoyed that i had answered him back .
he spoke curtly .
this is a safe place , harry , as you have seen .
it is much stronger than you realise .
but , you are the keeper .
it is your destiny to know the secret of erebos and you will also see the place where the stone will be kept .
you will understand that it is a safe haven .
as to my honesty , i can not prove that so well , but i ask you to consider your own words .
indeed , i could easily take the stone if i so wished but i have not done so .
far from it , i have arranged your rescue from certain disaster and safe passage through dangerous lands .
i have already shown that i have your interest at heart .
does this not show me in my true light ?
this is a lonely place and you are far from home , but you can trust me .
as for your recompense , i would not stoop so low as to discuss it .
but rest assured you will not be wanting in that regard .
now let us go .
i will show you the secret of erebos that no other mortal man has witnessed in this generation .
dr. wolfe turned and beckoned me to follow .
i thought of running out , but i was curious to see the secret , so i followed him .
as i walked past the desk , i looked down and saw an old coin resting on a tray .
dr. wolfe was already by the bookcase i reached out and quickly took the coin .
i slid it into my pocket and continued to follow the old man .
he opened a hidden door in the bookcase and we entered a passage that led to a stairway .
moments later , i was walking swiftly along the spiral tunnel that went down to the old mines beneath erebos .
the air was stifling .
the atmosphere was full of tension .
through the second door , sulphur fumes stung my eyes and dried my throat until it felt raw .
the sound of what lay ahead obliterated thought and throbbed in my head , on the edge of pain .
but i could not turn back .
the effect was magnetic and drew me on as surely as any nightmare .
minutes later , we entered the great chamber and the intense heat from the molten rock that glowed within engulfed us .
the ruddy light reflected on the face of the old man and glinted from his skin and hair .
he appeared daemonic , standing in that awful cavern .
the air was full of sound steam hissed and spat as , far below , the grumbling , slow voice of molten rock aboil , growled through the lurid light .
we approached a deep glowering well that lay between the flares and vapours .
even dr. wolfe was belittled by the slow violence of the power that had been tapped .
new beds of glowing embers covered the floors and walls of the cavern and danger filled the air .
i walked unwillingly towards the railings where the old man stood gazing .
the heat was intense and the acrid air burnt my lungs .
he turned to me and his ancient eyes were blazing coals reflecting the boiling red rock .
he radiated a new excitement .
i could see his pulse beating fast beneath his temples as the sweat glistened across his forehead .
he was on the verge of control .
this great place , he shouted majestically , lifting his arms , is the source of my power !
he waved about the chamber as he spoke .
it was at that moment that i decided he was probably mad , like his predecessor before him .
he put his hand out and drew me towards him .
i shivered involuntarily .
the heat was insufferable , yet his tight fingers felt as cold and hard as ice on my shoulders .
then he spoke firmly but distinctly above the pulsating roar of the cavern .
and this is the place where my white crystal will live .
see , all is prepared , and his long bony finger pointed to a rock pillar that rose from the centre of the molten rock pool .
it appeared to be a crystal pillar , about six feet high .
i immediately thought of the story of mythras and the great storm on suidhe when the strange pillar had appeared and disappeared .
could this be the same pillar ?
no mortal man will ever take it from that place .
where is it , boy ?
come let us do this great thing together , now !
i dont have it here , i cried , alarmed and tried to loosen his grip .
i could see no way to reach the pillar and survive .
he seemed angry for an instant but then he calmed and said , spitting out the words of course not , of course not .
then let us go and i will come and take the burden tonight , after the others have retired .
we need not worry them with our troubles , few must ever know of this secret .
tonight , at midnight , you and i will return here , for the last time , together .
the old man turned and walked quickly towards the entrance to the chamber .
he paid me no heed but i was not going to stay there a moment longer .
i followed him as he strode back up the passageways and to the house .
i felt flushed and dirty after our visit to the underworld .
in the study , dr. wolfe was going to speak to me again , but there was a knock at the door and the gold lord entered .
he seemed disturbed when he saw me and i began to realise that something was wrong between them .
i quickly excused myself and returned to the drawing room where crystal was waiting .
i must have looked strange , for she ran to me .
harry , whatevers happened ?
she cried and tugged me through the door , shutting it behind us .
i was shaking and sweat soaked my clothes .
in the mirror over the fireplace , i could see my reddened eyes staring out .
my voice was hoarse and i could hardly speak .
crystal found me some water i sat down and briefly told her about the secret of erebos and how dr. wolfe had been so strange and evil in the awful cavern .
we must escape from here , i said .
hes coming for me tonight at midnight , to get the stone .
i dont think he knows about yours .
i want you to look after my crystal until we get out of here .
it will be dangerous if they find out .
will you do it ?
of course , ill put them together in the box .
they belong together , she replied .
i took the crystal out and the coin fell out of my pocket .
i picked it up and looked at the date 1853 .
put this with them , i said .
maybe it will bring us luck , and i gave the stone and the coin to crystal .
the evening was approaching and we returned to our rooms .
there was no sign of the others , but we heard raised voices in the study as we passed .
the gold lord and dr. wolfe were clearly having a disagreement .
if they are arguing we can probably have some time to ourselves , i whispered .
lets go upstairs and make that plan .
in my rooms i shut the door behind us .
remembering the note that crystal had secretly given me , i pulled it out and was surprised to read do not go into his study and i looked at her but she remained grim and silent .
what do you know , crystal ?
i went in there when you were all together .
it was just a feeling .
i cant explain but it was like , evil in there .
i caught her eye for a long moment , but there was nothing more to be said about it now .
lets look at these , i said , going to my bag to get the maps .
someones been through this .
i suppose i should have expected that .
well , they might have been surprised to see all that money !
i dont think anythings been taken , but then we know what they were looking for .
the maps were still there and we laid them out on the floor .
i think we should go up here into the mountains , suggested crystal , thats the last place theyll expect to find us .
look theres a path marked from the corner of the woods behind the house , i pointed it out , well try that .
gives us plenty of cover until we are well away .
that way we can join up with this trail , crystals voice sounded bright again as her finger followed it across the sheet .
it leads across the mountain ranges down towards the plains and the farms in the heartland .
thats the best way to go .
its a long way .
well need some food .
ill guess we can find water .
but im with you , i agreed , but i was far from sure .
we both knew it would be a long and dangerous journey but it offered a chance of escape .
i sat back thinking it through .
what are you thinking about ?
asked crystal , looking at me .
dont tell me .
i know , she continued .
wolves .
ive been thinking about those too .
i dont know why , but i think that the emerald lord was telling the truth .
not that i want to meet a wolf in the night !
anyway , we have no choice , weve got to get out of here .
well pack our things and be ready to leave in a hurry , i said .
we must put some provisions in our packs .
you see what you can find in the kitchens and i will search for rope and more matches , before they come looking for us again .
together we went out and found the back stairs to the kitchens .
we heard mens voices inside .
there were pantries in the passage but we had to pass the open door to reach them .
wait here .
ill get their attention and keep them busy , crystal whispered , you get the stuff .
heres the bag .
she loosened her blouse , pushed back her hair and undid some of the buttons down the front of the long plaid skirt she was wearing and winked at me .
i waited as crystal minced casually into the room .
there were three men sat round a table playing cards .
they all looked up as she entered and crystal smiled warmly at them .
she took a stool and placing it well away from the open door , shook back her hair and carefully arranged herself on the stool so they would get a favourable view .
those short swarthy men were completely snared by this tall , pale and beautiful young creature .
she started talking and laughing even though she had no idea if they could understand her .
she was sure they would understand the universal language she was presenting with her body .
i just had to come and thank you for all the glorious food she began .
i darted silently past the door and crept into the pantries .
i took cheese , dried meat , biscuits and tins of sardines .
i also found a couple of knives and a spoon .
two minutes later i was out again and could hear crystals bright voice talking absolute nonsense in the kitchen .
i slid past the door just in time to see one of the men getting up to move towards crystal .
i kept on going back up to her room and waited .
two minutes later , looking flushed and a little excited , crystal burst in .
that was close .
i dont think they understand a word i was saying , she exclaimed .
they dont have a sense of humour either , i would guess .
but they do like beautiful girls !
i added and crystal looked demure as she buttoned up her clothes again .
yes , but you should have seen the look on the maids face when she walked in .
if looks could kill , id be dead .
she sussed me straight off .
shell be on her guard now .
probably a good thing were going !
we hid both our packs in crystals room and donned coats to go in search of rope .
daring the back stairs one more time , we slid out of the servants door and headed round to the stable yard .
horses , whispered crystal , why dont we ?
no , i couldnt .
anyway , it will be dark out there .
she looked disappointed but nodded .
in one of the tack rooms we found ropes , candles and matches .
we were on our way back when we heard a voice calling .
weve been missed , i whispered .
you go back round to the front door and ill take this up the back way and come down the front .
i rushed up stairs and stashed the bag under the bed .
then i took a piece of twig and jammed it into crystals door lock to block it .
two minutes later i was walking down the stairs just in time to hear crystal praising the horses .
we both went back up and quickly finished our packing .
we split the food , had a rope apiece and hid the packs deep in a cupboard .
finally , i took back my crystal from her box .
harry , crystal stopped .
yes , something in her voice caught my attention .
harry , if we dont make it tonight i just wanted you to know something .
of course well make it , i interrupted and then wished i wasnt so clumsy .
its just that i wanted you to have something to remember me by .
here ... she held out her hand to give me a small brooch shaped like a fish .
you mustnt give me this .
it must be precious .
no , i want you to have it .
then , if we get parted , you can keep it to remember me by , and she gently took my hand , laid the brooch in the palm and then closed my fingers over it .
keep it .
dont ever forget .
i wont forget how could i forget you ?
i promise .
still holding my hand , she kissed me gently on the cheek , like a sister might kiss a brother .
i felt the air quiver between us .
just then the dinner gong sounded for six oclock and we descended to our last supper at erebos .
the table was as before and , much to my surprise , there was no sign of the afternoons events in dr. wolfes behaviour .
he was kind , considerate and even jovial , as though nothing had happened between us .
if the argument with the gold lord had meant anything , it was gone now , or so it seemed at first .
crystal looked bright and radiant and quite put off her previous quiet .
the emerald lord smiled at us both and seemed pleased with this improvement .
the gold lord was polite but more than once i caught him looking earnestly at me and dr. wolfe .
dr. wolfe spoke at the end of the meal and the result of the argument with the gold lord became clear .
only i knew that dr. wolfe had other plans .
i trust you will remain as our guests for another day ?
then , perhaps , you will continue your journey with my companions , the gold lord and the emerald lord .
they would consider it an honour to be of assistance .
they know the country well and will show you the safest routes to your destinations .
yes , we will travel on before long , crystal replied .
i looked across at her and our eyes met .
even then i felt tension mounting in me , but was determined not to let it show .
we went up to our rooms as early as we could , accompanied by the silent servants , who always seemed to look at us suspiciously .
tonight , the maid stared at crystal with dagger eyes .
we both knew she was suspicious but there was no helping that now .
this time i set a chair next to my door and sat on it to wait .
i waited for a long time , listening at my door , before i went to venture out and go to crystals room but , to my horror , i could not open it .
they had silently locked the door , but how i couldnt tell .
i had heard nothing , not so much as a click .
i was trapped .
why hadnt i blocked that lock too ?
nunce !
i exclaimed .
i knew that i had to get out before the old man came for me and took me down to the fearful furnaces below .
i looked out of all the windows but they all opened onto vertical walls and i could not escape from any of them .
none of the cupboards contained a way out , nor were there any hatches in the ceiling .
i sat on the edge of the settee , in the sitting room , with my head in my hands .
i could not see any way out .
the clock on the mantelpiece chimed eleven and i looked up .
i only had one hour in which to escape .
suddenly , a thought struck me maybe the answer was right in front of my eyes .
i crossed the room to the large ornate fireplace and peered behind the screen .
it was indeed a large flue , although how i could climb it or whether i would be able to escape from the top , i could not determine .
i took a pillowcase and made it into a balaclava hat to protect my face and eyes .
i found , in a drawer , a pair of leather gloves that would protect my hands .
still wearing my fine clothes i crawled into the claustrophobic fireplace and tried the climb .
my first attempt failed because i could not grip the sides of the flue with my feet .
i removed my shoes and socks and slung them by their laces from my belt and tried again .
i was able to grip between the courses of bricks with my fingers and toes , and by wedging my back against the side of the flue i could slowly scrape my way skyward .
the chimney was filthy and the pungent smell of soot and damp filled my nostrils , but the makeshift hat was effective in keeping the worst of it off my face .
the flue became narrower towards the top but i managed to push my way up .
i knew one false move and i would crash to the bottom and all would be lost .
my limbs ached and trembled from the exertion of the climb and i struggled to find a toehold to support myself at the top .
the chimney had no pot but a gaping square brick stack with slanted holes made in the side for draught .
i dislodged some loose bricks from one side and pushed a hole through .
all the time the strain on my limbs to support my weight by pressing back against the stack was becoming more painful and desperate .
the bricks fell with a rumbling crash and i froze at the loud report , but no other sounds followed , and i continued to enlarge the hole until i could reach through and carefully let the bricks down .
eventually , it was big enough to crawl through .
i looked over the edge in the semi dark and saw a large , flat , lead covered roof with perhaps twenty similar stacks emerging from it .
i sighed in relief at my good fortune in finding a flat roof .
it took the last of my strength to crawl through the hole and tumble down the outside .
i lay still for a minute , unable to move my aching legs enough to raise myself .
in the distance i heard a clock strike the half hour and i forced myself to get up to look about .
there was a higher roof above on both sides and a stairwell that led to a small doorway .
the door had no keyhole but was bolted and i concluded that it could only be opened from within .
returning to the roof , i counted the chimneys across from where i had emerged and then called softly down the third one .
i prayed that this would be crystals chimney .
chrissy , i hissed , chrissy , go to the fireplace .
but there was no reply .
i called again .
my voice sounded too loud in the night .
there was still no reply , so i dropped a piece of stone down the chimney .
it fell with a clatter into the fireplace below .
i called for a third time .
chrissy .
oh , please hear me .
chrissy ...
i listened .
there was only silence at first , but then i heard a scraping sound below .
the fire screen moved and the sound of crystals surprised voice called up to me .
where are you ?
find the doorway to the roof , it must be at the top of the next flight of stairs , and unbolt it , ill be waiting .
im on my way , she replied .
moments later , we stood face to face at the top of the stairs , in the dark .
i noticed that she had changed back into her old clothes .
it was reassuring to have the real crystal back again .
we tiptoed back to her room to make our escape .
i wedged the door shut and stood for a moment in silence , listening for any following footsteps , but heard none .
crystal silently laughed when she saw me in the light .
soot and dirt covered my clothes and i still had the pillowcase over my head .
i brushed myself down and washed my hands quickly before grabbing our packs and joining crystal in the sitting room .
the clock was showing a quarter to midnight and in fifteen minutes or less dr. wolfe would discover that i was missing .
unlike mine , her bedroom had a small stone balcony and i tied the rope , which i had knotted earlier , to the balustrade .
crystal went down first , disappearing into the darkness below .
i could not see her but the rope went slack and then jerked twice .
i pulled up the rope and tied on the backpacks .
these i lowered , one at a time .
it seemed to take forever to tie and untie the knots .
i kept looking behind me at the door .
suppose dr. wolfe was early ?
at last i was ready to climb down myself .
my hands and feet were already sore and blistered from climbing the chimney , so the rope , which was a little thin , cut painfully into my skin .
i dropped down the last four feet to land beside my friend .
we were on our way to freedom and it was just five to midnight .
i sat down and slipped on my socks and shoes and gathered up our packs .
my raw hands and swollen feet slowed my progress .
finally , we were ready .
somewhere , inside the great house , a clock began to strike midnight .
what happened next terrified us both with its shock and surprise .
there was an ear splitting crack .
we both dropped to the ground .
there followed a deep and thunderous rumble from somewhere far below us .
i felt the ground move beneath me and i jumped up and pulled crystal away from the house .
the earth was shivering violently and , from above , the balustrade crashed to the ground crushing the rope beneath it , just at the spot where we had been crouching .
a frightening silence filled the air .
the tremor had passed .
the earth held its breath .
we stood momentarily stunned and fixed to the spot .
then crystal grabbed my hand and dragged me away from the place .
this way , lets go , she called hoarsely .
we turned and ran as fast as we could , across the lawns , to the wall .
my heart pounded in panic .
behind us , in the house , came the sound of shouting and commotion .
we scrambled over the wall and ran into the woods behind the house , towards the path that led up into the mountains .
somewhere ahead , i heard a wolf cry out in the night .
while harry was descending the rope from the balustrade to the ground , dr. wolfe was deep beneath the house , in the old mines , checking his preparations .
the old man had planned to leave the house that night and knew that he would probably not return .
he threw the last boxes of papers and books into the smouldering cauldron of molten rock .
the fires of erebos consumed many volumes and studies that night .
dr. wolfe no longer needed them .
the white crystal was almost in his possession and with it he would receive the knowledge he had been seeking all his life .
he thought he would be able to move into a different time , to infiltrate any place in history unseen , unknown welcome or unwelcome .
he planned to influence the world as a shaman , to become a mystery force no one could stop .
but if dr. wolfe had understood the magic of the stone , he would not have been so eager to possess it .
dr. wolfe knew that harry had the white crystal and he had guessed that he kept it with him .
at first he thought he would take it by force .
but the gold lord was suspicious .
he had to be careful .
there must be no trace .
he had a bottle of camphor ready to silence the boy in his room .
the old magician would take the stone and bring the boy down to the molten pit .
he knew he needed the spell , the magic words that had been lost .
it was this , not just the crystal that the boy possessed .
it would not take long to get the spoken spell from harry here , tonight .
no one could defy the terror of being hung from the pulpit over that appalling molten lake for long .
once he had what he wanted he could just let the boy drop into the lava and be consumed there would be no trace of him left .
dr. wolfe could then use the crystal to leave erebos .
by dawn he would already be many miles away unseen and maybe years away , too .
he intended to go to the council of the elders and secretly to discover the source of their power .
he could infiltrate the chambers of power , wherever they were to be found .
dr. wolfe would become sicarius mythras at last .
he trembled with excitement as he thought of the future .
he was old but now , he could live forever .
with his task completed , dr. wolfe ascended to the house , and went up to harrys room .
he had the key in his hand ready to unlock the door .
it was turning twelve oclock he stood outside the room and , just for a moment , he hesitated .
as the great tower clock struck the first chime of midnight , a cracking sound as loud as a thunderbolt filled the air .
it came from beneath the house .
this was not part of his plan .
his heart stopped for a second , then he turned and ran down the stairs towards the mines .
he had left the doors open to take the boy through .
they must be closed .
the ground beneath him began to shiver as he ran into the tunnel .
the door behind him crashed shut .
a roaring like thunder echoed along the corridors the sound hurt his ears .
the walls moved and rocks cracked in jagged lines above his head .
he turned and ran back to the door but he could not move it .
there was no escape .
a glowing mass of choking sulphurous smoke billowed along the tunnel towards him and dr. wolfe cowered in the corner .
he held his breath and closed his eyes for as long as he could .
when he opened his eyes again , the smoke had risen and the vibration had stopped .
erebos was silent and he breathed in relief .
still shaking , he tried the door again but it held fast .
harry and crystal were at that moment escaping to the mountains and dr. wolfe was a prisoner in the mines of erebos .
the same workings , abandoned many centuries before because of the lava flow that had broken into the tunnels , were slowly claiming another victim .
the pressure was building below , in the silent mines , once more .
already , the magma pool nearly filled the huge chamber .
the glowing molten rock crept along slowly climbing up the spiral passage , pushed inexorably forward by an unstoppable pressure from beneath the earths crust .
the walls of the tunnel around him began to glow a dull red in the fearful heat .
dr. wolfe stood and waited in the awful ruddy light .
the rocks all around were grinding and rasping as the pressure built .
rock cracked and crumbled from the walls and ceiling .
dr. wolfe faced his final avenger and the madness filled his mind as he screamed in terror .
he turned to scratch at the heavy steel door but it was sealed and broken .
suddenly , the lights went out and he split the glowing dark in a huge roar of anger .
tra a a i i i t t o r s s !
then he turned to face the oncoming doom and dropped to his knees .
he spoke in a quiet voice , his last words in this world , but there was no one to hear him .
forgive me , harry , i am mad .
to me now , my own destruction .
looking up , his proud face looked world weary , the aged face of a man resigned to death .
a gentle face , a sad face , perhaps he had found some truth at last .
meanwhile , after the tremor , the lords of the double cross had assembled in the drawing room .
they searched the house and found that dr. wolfe , harry and crystal had disappeared .
the gold lord looked shaken as he spoke .
i do believe that dr. wolfe has turned to evil .
i should have seen it earlier .
we may already have failed .
everyone , search the property for our guests .
i fear for their lives .
if we find dr. wolfe , do not spare him , he is mad , and his voice rasped as he spoke .
has he the young ones ?
asked the emerald lord .
i fear they have been taken .
they may be dead already , maybe worse , and he grimaced .
they began their search and their suspicions were heightened when they found that dr. wolfe had removed many of his most precious books and belongings .
none of them suspected the truth and none knew of the disused mines below the house .
the gold lord despatched two messengers to warn the council of the elders .
the remainder of the party found no clues when they searched the house and grounds .
there were two further tremors during the night and neither animals nor servants would stay near the place any longer .
they decided to shut the house and go down into the heartland to safer ground .
before the morning had come , the lords of the double cross had left , never to return , and erebos lay deserted in the desolate corrie below the mountains .
crystal and i climbed steadily through the night , high in the hills above the old house , to find the old paths we had seen marked on the maps .
the night was strangely quiet .
the animals had all been terrified by the earthquake and had fled .
the tremor had also scared us but there was little else we could do except continue to walk .
the moon shone down and lit the scene with a cold pale light that revealed every tree and rock as sharp and sinister silhouettes .
we were two wary travellers and kept under cover as much as we were able .
every sound seemed loud in the silence of the night , and a second distant wolf like cry made us freeze in our tracks .
the sound subsided into echoes in the valleys below erebos and we continued in haste .
after many hours of walking , we found a shepherds hut on the hillside .
we pushed open the door and entered the place to rest .
we were exhausted .
we slept with our feet against the door and our heads on our packs .
dawn broke over the mountains and awoke crystal and me in the old tumbledown shelter .
we ate sparingly , not knowing how long our supplies might need to last .
i cautiously opened the door and we both went out into the cool morning light .
the mountains towered above us majestically .
i could detect the black form of a large bird circling in an early thermal , high up in the soft blue sky .
below it there were perhaps half a dozen smaller birds gulls chasing , dipping , diving and calling in fear and agitation of the great bird .
the eagle floated serene and unfettered by the protestations beneath him .
watching the eagles slow deliberate movements through the early air filled me with hope .
he dropped suddenly to a distant , remote cliff face , close to the mountain top .
behind me crystal stopped still behind me and placed her hand on my shoulder .
thank you , she said quietly and i knew our troubles were shared .
for a while we stood in the silence alone in our thoughts , but together .
in the valley , far below us , we could make out the distant form of erebos , its empty windows glinting in the sun .
we turned our back on the evil place and began to walk up an old sheep track .
the path crossed a bridge over a stream and continued on up to the head of the valley , where crystal hoped to find the road that would eventually take us down towards her fathers farm .
we walked along the path beside the stream .
the water was little more than a trickle but the stream bed was a deep , wide channel , fit for a mountain river , where the water had eroded the rock over the centuries .
crystal looked at the small stream in despair but appeared more determined with each step forward and upward .
her hands clenched into fists and her stride became sure and firm .
i noticed that she seemed to be looking for something up ahead .
what is it , crystal ?
i asked .
youll see .
youll see it soon enough , she replied , her fists clenched even tighter .
we climbed through the wooded valley beside the stream bed .
dense foliage enclosed the slopes but at the valley head we could see open sky .
we clambered up the final steep slope onto an exposed rocky ridge .
the air was cold and clear .
we had ascended hundreds of feet into the mountains .
crystal climbed the last few feet to the ridge , stopped short and looked straight ahead .
i heard her draw breath with a hiss like an angry snake .
suddenly , i saw it too .
the object of crystals hate , the dam , loomed above us .
it stood like a fortress wall across the valley .
emerging from the base was a massive silver pipeline that snaked down the valley and into the distance .
it was the pipeline that had drained the life from her fathers farm , and from many others .
the water company had never planned a compensation reservoir for the few people who lived in the heartland .
so , thats it , i whispered as i looked in awe at the smooth wall ahead .
i did not know what she intended to do when we reached the dam .
but crystal just wanted to see the monstrous construction and to understand her enemy .
she imagined herself somehow stopping the water from the pipeline by some act of sabotage but she knew , deep within , that it was hopeless and foolish to try anything .
she also knew that she would need more than bare hands to destroy that mighty barrier .
we clambered up a steep slope onto a broad new road that switch backed its way up to the dam .
the road seemed incongruous in such a remote area .
we stepped boldly along the deserted carriageway and we reached the dam after a mile long walk .
the construction was massive .
the main wall of the dam was buttressed with sloping pillars and a wide coping that overhung the valley .
the road ran across the top of the wall , broad and black .
there was a high parapet wall and railings on either side .
we looked across from the roadway and saw that the arid mountainside dropped in to a great lake that curved away into the distance between the peaks that rose up on either side .
a tower of stone emerged like a strange concrete island in the centre of the lake .
the wind swept across the expanse of water , funnelled between the valley sides and moaned despairingly through the railings .
no one was to be seen .
crystal and i climbed onto the wall beside the road and looked out .
the view was immense and magnificent .
the high vantage point of the dam showed the whole country laid out like a relief map below us .
despite herself , crystal wondered at the edifice its size , and its might .
the dam held the waters in check , in serene calm , and the place was beautiful .
i looked out across the scene and noticed a movement , almost imperceptible , on the ground far below .
the relief map seemed to be changing , minutely .
the ground in the direction of erebos was moving .
it lasted only a few seconds but moments later a rumbling noise spread up the valleys towards us .
the sound grew to a tearing crackling blast that echoed round the mountains and engulfed us in fear .
its another tremor , i shouted .
i dont think we should stay here .
run !
i pulled at crystals arm as she stood motionless on the wall .
she stared , stupefied , across the valley .
she turned to me and we grabbed our packs and jumped down to the road .
we ran back to the edge of the dam .
in the distance , we heard another rumbling crack .
it was a long way off but it scared us nevertheless .
beside the dam was a small level plateau that was not directly below any higher rocks .
we scrambled our way up to the top and stood waiting and listening .
all about us was a silence , the same deathly silence that we had experienced the night before .
the birds , which had been skimming the lake when we arrived , had disappeared .
there was no sign of animal life anywhere .
do you think it is over ?
crystal asked in a trembling voice .
we should stay here for a while , i replied firmly .
we stood watching the distance but we could see no movement and we heard no sound .
i looked up at the mountains behind the lake and saw what looked like smoke billowing down the side .
it was an avalanche .
beneath us we began to feel a pulsing vibration .
for a few moments , the world went mad and everything that meant life seemed to falter .
the ground , which had been so solid and inanimate became a living , breathing monster .
the rocks rippled like a sail in the wind .
we both lay down and our vision became blurred .
dust clouds peeled away from the lakeside .
the water in the lake began to heave and giant circular patterns formed across the surface .
a great wave rushed out and broke across the dam .
loose boulders toppled from high places and crashed into the depths .
the quake passed and all became still , too still .
i attempted to stand but fell back , dizzy and nauseous .
crystal stood up , very slowly , shaking involuntarily then she helped me up .
we held on to each other for support and walked crab like , closer to the edge , to look down into the valley .
the clouds of dust settled and the water became still .
everything continued as though nothing had occurred .
but then i saw something and pointed down to the ground in front of the dam .
below the wall , we could see the earth begin to change colour slowly at first , it darkened and stained .
the ruddy earth seemed to be bleeding .
silently and slowly the water in the lake began to turn and dip .
at the same time , the water level in the old streambed began to rise and a new cascade flowed down the old courses .
a visible hole appeared , like a small dark tunnel , in the concrete wall at the base of the dam .
pieces of concrete began to break away and they crashed down the hillside .
they looked tiny from such a height but they were big enough to smash an old bridge as they tumbled down a crack appeared in the wall of the dam , then another and another .
we could hear the water as it started to gain momentum and thunder through the break .
the torrent became a wave washing down the same hillside where , an hour before , we had toiled upwards .
the water level in the lake seemed not to have changed .
the dam was great , but the water was greater a slowly spinning whirlpool appeared .
the revolving mass of liquid moved ever faster until watching it made us dizzy .
the vortex deepened and a strange whistling noise filled the air , growing ever louder until it screeched with fury .
water appeared at the cracks in the dam and began to spray through them in showers that turned into vast silken rainbows in the sun .
the terrible beauty of the scene was stunning .
seconds later , the hole became a breach and a complete section of the dam wall collapsed in a mass of flying rubble .
a tidal wave of water washed down the hillside and the lake , which had taken so many months to fill , finally emptied itself across the world in just a few violent seconds , carving out a muddy scar as it went .
it carried with it everything in its path .
the small forest in the valley became a raging green sea and reappeared as a muddy log jam .
the tangled , jagged remains of the pipeline , which had bucked and writhed like a dancing snake before it settled , lay broken , hollow and empty , amongst the debris .
below us the tide rolled on towards erebos .
crystal and i could find no words to say .
we stood in silence .
the devastation below us was complete .
something had ended and crystal began to weep .
dont be upset , i said quietly .
its all over now .
but crystal was crying tears of joy .
the water had swept away all that was bad and now she could return home renewed .
she knew that her part in the story was almost over .
she dried her eyes and turned to me .
we must go , harry , she whispered hoarsely , and i will go home and you must go home too .
crystal gave me a friendly hug and we turned to walk across the hills hand in hand .
we began our journey to the heartland .
we were the two companions .
somehow , we knew it was over and we no longer felt any danger .
our hearts felt light , exhilaration filled our veins , and i sang a walking song that i had known for years .
crystal joined with me as we paced the dusty crumpled road away from the disaster .
unknown to the two home bound travellers the wave of water had destroyed more than the dam and the pipeline .
far below , in the forest , the follower had been watching and waiting for them .
he had seen the wall of water before he heard it but could not avoid it .
no living thing could have survived such an overwhelming wave .
further away still , the waters from the lake had poured into a great fissure that had opened during the earthquake .
the freshwater tide flooded down into the tunnels of erebos .
the house had collapsed into the old mines in a noxious fiery destruction and lay crushed and ruined in the boiling pools of lava that erupted from the gaping wounds in the earth .
the water flooded across the whole red , smoking furnace and quenched the turbulent molten rock in a mass of steaming ferment .
a boiling lake formed where the house had been and slowly cooled .
the lava flows had filled the old tunnels and the secret of erebos was lost forever .
beyond the valleys of the highland and across the dusty arid plains a sad farmer and his wife sat by the old farm pond , now dry .
the lady was crying but her tears , too , were dry .
the man looked old , slouched and weary with worry .
the river , that had once run close by , had disappeared .
there were two worn out suitcases beside the couple and in the yard was the rusty car , ready to go .
the early autumn sun was hazy and all about them was the incessant buzzing of insects .
the man slowly raised his head .
he shook it as though he was dispelling a wrong thought .
a moment later , he leapt up and ran to the river bank .
the man began to dance and the years dropped away .
below him , in the foul ditch , the sand was growing damp .
a tiny trickle of clear liquid snaked and oozed into a miniature pool and began to fill it .
suddenly , and seemingly from nowhere , a bird alighted in the stream and began to drink .
the man looked up at the sky and began to laugh a loud , free victorious laugh .
he ran to the sad , sombre lady and took her in his arms and kissed her on the cheek .
my love , my dearest love , i cant believe it , but its true .
come , let me show you , come with me and tell me it is true , and he led her gently to the stream , which , by then , was almost running .
she looked into the ditch and once again began to cry but this time the tears streamed down her cheeks .
her hands clutched and released the air as she bent down and knelt beside the dusty bank .
she scooped a palm full of the miraculous water and put it to her lips , in a kiss of joy .
crystal and i walked across the snowy mountains for three long days and nights .
we travelled for many miles along the paths , through the foothills and down into the heartland .
the disaster that had befallen the place became clear as we found our way through the old farmsteads and crossed the blasted plains .
the trees were skeletal and the fields resembled a desert .
when the rains arrived they aggravated the pain .
the early equinoctial autumn storms had washed away the topsoil and silt blocked all the ditches .
the rainwater had soaked straight through the parched brown earth and run off into the brackish ponds , where no good was to be had from it .
the further we travelled towards crystals home , the more desolate the scenery became .
all of the farms were empty and many had begun the slow disintegration into ruins .
but we knew that the river was already renewing the land in the distance behind us , and it was slowly filling and reclaiming the country that relied upon it for life .
the water would soon begin to heal the scars and bring a new spring .
road and river met at an old brick bridge that spanned the waters .
it had always been a meeting place for travellers and the ruins of an old inn stood , a gaunt silhouette , by the roadside .
this place marked the head of an ancient canal .
dilapidated wharves and workshops stood beside the river .
the rusty relics of sluices and a small crane stood abandoned on the quay .
the river had been canalised centuries earlier .
before the days of cars and lorries , the canal had carried the farmers produce down stream and into the heart of the big city .
it was late on tuesday morning when we stopped at the bridge , to rest beneath the warm autumn sun .
by the time we arrived there , new waters had begun to fill the old courses .
clean streams had already started to carry away the green , dank slime and clear the foul smelling air .
a new , fresh perfume of damp earth caressed our senses in place of the old evil .
the waters would take a long time to soothe all the wounds of the land , but the convalescence had begun .
as we stood and watched , a solitary swan glided down through the empty sky and landed on the smooth waters under the bridge .
crystal laughed out loud in her joy .
a horse rider approached , in a moving cloud of dust , along the empty road ahead .
he rode steadily towards us but the horse suddenly stopped , looked ahead to us and whinnied loudly before cantering onto the bridge .
the dust cloud settled to reveal the form of the emerald lord .
he looked tired and worn , his brow was furrowed and his finery soiled .
the horse whinnied again and shifted about in excitement .
at first the emerald lord seemed unclear and stooped but he passed his hand across his eyes .
we looked at each other across the gap and then he dismounted and strode towards us .
the snorting , steaming horse came straight across to crystal and pressed itself towards her as she held his proud head .
go on with you now .
go and have that drink , she whispered into his ear and the horse obediently went to drink at the waters edge as the emerald lord approached .
he looked like a man in shock .
he came silently forward and touched us as if he could not believe we were real .
i could not believe you could survive .
but you live favoured lives .
come !
the emerald lord put out his hands to us and clasped us both in genuine warmth .
we were taken aback .
i can not believe it .
but it is true .
once again he stood back and just looked at us .
but his weary face had taken on a new life and a broad smile .
well , it is done and it is done well , he said .
much has already changed in the world since we met last .
dr. wolfe has gone , we thought he had taken you but he must be alone .
perhaps not all is lost after all .
but erebos has been laid to ruin , the follower has been swept away and the waters have been freed .
you will find that much else besides has changed and all these things have come about because of you .
we have done nothing , i said .
we are going home , said crystal .
that is all .
have you come to stop us ?
i asked .
or take us , or deceive us again ?
added crystal , sharply .
none of those things , replied the emerald lord laughing .
i am not dr. wolfe .
the words i have spoken to you before have always been true .
the words i speak to you now are true .
my companions and i want only to help you .
indeed , we have helped you , but our help has not always been obvious .
we believed you had been taken or killed or both .
but i felt sure that you might have escaped .
i do not why .
the gold lord and the council of the elders agreed that i should search for you and i am to offer you , once again , my assistance .
much danger has passed , but still you may need some guidance if you are to return to your homes .
i think you know that i am true .
i am going home and i am going home now , said crystal but with less distance in her voice than before .
well , that is good too , replied the emerald lord .
now is the time when good friends must part and go their separate ways .
believe me or believe me not , trust me or trust me not but at least let me help you .
i bring you each a parting gift .
to you , crystal , i will give my horse .
in the short time you were together he grew to love you and it is he who has found you here , not me .
you so admired him before and he will bear you well .
he is a fine beast and will serve you faithfully for years to come .
this is a time of hardship and you will need every help if you are to survive the coming winter on your fathers farm .
your family is waiting and they need you now .
my horse is called neptune and when he is refreshed , let him speed you to them .
the emerald lord looked at crystal as if he expected a reply , but she remained silent but turned towards the great horse now standing silently by the bridge .
he turned to me and spoke again .
you , harry , are many miles from your home and in a foreign land .
you will need a guide .
let me be your guide , for i know the many ways of journeying with a friend .
he speaks some truth , i said to crystal .
our ways are not the same .
do you trust him ?
she asked .
yes , i trust him , i replied .
even though i do not know him !
i held out my hand to the emerald lord and he shook it .
then i must turn away , said crystal softly .
my home lies across the plain .
i had hoped ... but her voice trailed away .
she turned away , went over to the horse and took his reins in hand .
crystal patted the beast and the animal followed her obediently across the bridge .
on coming level with us , she mounted neptune .
i strapped her packs onto the saddle bag .
tears were in our eyes .
the parting of friends is always sad and we did not know what lay ahead or if we would ever meet again .
good bye , crystal , i said , looking up .
i shall dream of you tonight and remember you tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow .
we may not have changed the world , but you have changed my world .
i took her hand for a moment and then stepped back .
she turned the horse and they began to walk away .
when she had reached the other end of the bridge , she turned towards us again .
harry , once before you asked me to sing and i couldnt .
well the time has come .
remember me like this .
crystal sat on the horse and sang , i could barely see her through my watery eyes .
the water has filled dry ditches and the tears have filled my eyes , the sky so dry and dusty is made cloudy as she cries .
new beginnings , old friends , the parting of many ways , yet love and friendship never ends while memories fill the days .
for a long while there was silence broken only by the gentle sound of water running through a sluice .
then she turned the horse and they walked slowly along the track across the dusty plain .
i watched her until she had faded into the distance and was gone from my sight .
i saw that the emerald lord watched her , too , and he also seemed sad .
chapter nine going home the emerald lord turned to me and smiled .
harry , he said , we need to travel one more time .
you and me both , were going home .
i looked at him in surprise .
but , i thought you were coming with me ?
i questioned .
yes , thats right , were going home , he reaffirmed .
the journeys and adventures that had befallen me had almost put home out of my thoughts .
of course , i knew that i had to return , but i could not begin to imagine what would become of me when i arrived .
i was still too far away .
you dont live on suidhe ?
i asked him .
no , i do not , he replied .
but sometimes i feel that i do .
you see , my grandfather was a visitor there , for a time .
while he was on suidhe he kept diaries and a journal .
when i was just a boy he told me tales of the place and many years later , after he had returned to the mainland , he gave me his books to read .
he had always intended to return to suidhe .
he used to say that he had unfinished business there and even claimed he left some belongings in safe keeping .
but sadly he never did go back .
eventually , he became very ill and when he knew that he would never return , i promised him that one day i would go there in his place .
the stories he told me had left me so many impressions of the island that i wanted to go and see what it was really like .
in a world of strange coincidences this seemed stranger than all but i kept my caution and turned back to the river .
how will we get there ?
i asked .
i think that our route is clear and the means to travel is already before us .
so saying , he stepped down to the river bank and looked along the old canal .
the way may not be as free as it should be , but it will suit .
i can remember when these wharves were thriving and many craft came here .
perhaps they will return one day .
he led the way across the road to a series of long abandoned sheds .
we opened the half broken doors of the first shed .
all was dusty and dark inside cobwebs festooned the ceilings and dirt covered the floor .
there were , perhaps , twenty large canoes stacked on racks either side of the shed .
they appeared unkempt but serviceable .
we chose one that seemed newer than most and took it out into the sunlight .
a few minutes spent cleaning revealed an old but solid craft .
a second shed revealed a selection of paddles and chandlery .
we collected the things that we thought would be most useful ropes , canvas covers , holdalls , fishing net and many small sundries .
the canoe was soon kitted out and we checked that we could lift her between us .
we placed the vessel on the water and loaded our provisions .
we must have a name for our boat .
i said .
lets call it crystal !
replied the emerald lord , smiling .
the canoe was of the large , open , traditional type and could accommodate two paddlers and their baggage with ease .
i placed my duffel bag under the thwart .
my companion had brought a spare saddlebag with him , which he stowed in the stern .
we boarded the vessel and set off towards the city .
we both knew it would be a long journey home .
i looked at my fellow traveller in the canoe .
he no longer looked like a lord but was just an ordinary man and i felt that i had known him for a long time .
what is your real name ?
i asked .
he gazed at me quizzically and replied .
yes , it is time you knew my real name .
you can not call me the emerald lord , not here at any rate .
he paused and looked me directly in the eye .
my name is finder you may call me that .
but ...
i faltered .
yes , i know , he said softly .
one day i will tell you the tale , but now we have work to do and , also , there is something else .
what ?
i asked .
we must take care .
you will not be safe until you reach your island , maybe not even then .
the follower is still out there , im sure .
but i thought you said he had been swept away ?
i never said he had been killed .
the follower is not so easily stopped , like any living thing .
no , i hope he has been put off the scent for now .
but he will keep on trying to find you .
lets go then , i said and picked up my paddle .
the first mile was uneventful .
the old canal was passable with care but the locks were unusable water poured over them where the bypass cuttings and sluices had become blocked and broken .
other equipment had seized through lack of use , or had been jammed shut by the farmers to preserve the water that had once been so scarce .
we lifted our craft out and around three locks and then entered a long twisting stretch of waterway that passed across a flat plain .
here , the current was sluggish .
debris littered the bed of the river and projected haphazardly from the water , or lurked dangerously just below the surface .
we navigated our way slowly through the obstacles to the clear water ahead .
the shallow bottomed canoe enabled us to maintain a reasonable speed despite the dangers .
finder proved to be as good a travelling companion in a boat as the emerald lord had been on a horse .
he knew much about the country we were travelling through and maintained a commentary about the places we passed .
he pointed out the features of the landscape and often told their histories .
there were few people in the region .
it had been a farming area before the water disappeared but the farms were mostly empty and , with their demise , the population had dwindled .
consequently , our passage downstream remained largely unnoticed .
i had seen the place before , as a patchwork , miniature world , from the heights of the snowy mountains .
it had seemed indistinct and like a model landscape from such a distance .
the reality of the place was quite different to the impression i had received .
the overall tidiness and soft misty quality of myriad farms and fields was really a scene of gentle desolation of nature attempting to reclaim a piece of the world .
but nature requires earth , air , sun and most of all , water .
already , the banks of the old canal had begun to green with new growth .
the grasses and plants had changed hue within a few days of the river refilling .
desert brown filled the distance ahead of us , where the water had barely reached the roots on the river bank , yet behind us the trees seemed almost luxuriant by comparison .
a new green world was arising like a phoenix from the sun scorched earth .
the rhythm of the paddles , the creak of the wood and the slow rush of water reached my ears like words on the air and even as i thought this , finder began to sing .
the end of the day approached and we found a small backwater that could provide both safety and shelter for the night .
the long , slow sunset of the plains glowed through wispy , fiery , orange clouds that quietly melded into deep crimson and dulled to a frosty night .
we traced the course of the river in the twilight where the twisting silken mists rose up from the water and hung like vaporous wraiths in the evening air .
once forgotten sounds had returned to the river bank the splash of an otter slipping into the current , the rush of a ducks wings as he landed , all emerald and brown in a spray of creamy foam .
between these sounds and the occasional whisper of the water wandering by , there was a dark and beautiful quiet .
it was not the absolute silence of fear , but the perceptible silence of the countryside , beside the river at night , unbroken by the interference of man .
it was an atmosphere of trust , like the gentle caress of fluid whisperings that stroked my mind into perfect pure peace .
we talked quietly , long into the night and looked out and into the dark , star sprinkled sky .
it looked like pollen dust on a bed of black velvet .
a silver , gibbous moon rose on her journey through the void .
i told finder of my adventures in the big city , of my subterranean passage beneath the city streets and the journey across the marshes by boat .
he , in his turn , told me how the lords had caught up with us in the small town , beyond the marsh .
they followed us through the woods until they found the follower and the strange wolf men .
the lonely yew wood had been a busy place that night .
tell me about the follower , i said .
but finder remained grimly quiet and would not talk about it .
wait until it is light , he replied .
and dr. wolfe , i questioned , who is he ?
i believe the dr. wolfe you saw is no longer , but we will never know in certainty who he was .
he was a clever and a thoughtful man , but he had become corrupted by the boredom of his life .
he wanted something more than an everyday existence .
he thought that the substance of life should be greater than eating , sleeping and day to day routine .
he thought of ordinary life as a prison .
i believe that he was wrong structure is the key to freedom .
the structure of life takes care of your earthly needs and allows you to enjoy a spiritual freedom that does not abide in an uncertain world .
in answer to who he was , he was a very old man , much older than the other lords of the double cross .
he had lived at erebos for many years .
but he had lived and travelled , far and wide , for many more years before that .
of course , he was not known as dr. wolfe then , we called him the white lord and he was one of our company .
in a way , he was the leader of the lords of the double cross , but like all leaders he found that he was really just a slave to his people and without them he had no power .
that is one reason why he was so interested in your possession because he was jealous of the power it appeared to give you .
he wished to have a power that he alone could control at will .
although he knew about the white crystal and , indeed , he became obsessed by it , he did not understand it and failed to make the magic work .
when he discovered that you had the white crystal and that you also possessed the secret that made it work , he needed to be able to use it for himself .
he decided to obtain your secret and then well i rather think he sought to destroy you .
he showed me the furnace beneath the house , i said .
i am sure i would have ended in the flames .
do you mean there really was a molten pool ?
i had heard of that , and it was finders turn to be surprised .
but you could have been killed , replied finder earnestly .
i am sure it was his intention .
but why ?
i can not understand that finder .
the more i see , the further i go , the more i realise there isnt any real magic in the white crystal , i said .
there is good luck and bad luck surrounding me in equal measure .
there is hard work and sweet enjoyment too , but no magic .
these things that have happened are just life and the world at work .
i do not understand them .
i do not have any power .
i am just me .
perhaps when i started out i wasnt even that .
finder had stopped paddling and was looking at me as i spoke .
harry , your words are a kind of magic .
for the first time , the white crystal has an owner who does understand the spell .
what you have said is profound because it is true .
but the journey is not over yet , we have far to go and time is of the essence .
yes , time is the essence of the thing .
i do want to understand .
i need to understand for crystals sake .
finder looked surprised but continued .
erebos was not sleeping .
the dam in the mountain had taken the water away and the balance of the place had been disturbed .
the earth cracked and the results you saw , and felt .
much of what came to pass we had foreseen but the hidden power of erebos was a terrifying surprise .
the lords at first feared that dr. wolfe had wrought some terror and , when you were found to be missing , we thought that the worst had occurred .
but it was not so and there may yet be a chance to start anew .
now i think we should turn in and start early tomorrow .
i shuddered at the thought of the molten pool that dr. wolfe had once intended to be my destiny .
we talked a little more about travellers and travelling before settling to sleep , deep and undisturbed by anything but our own dreams .
on wednesday morning , i awoke with the sun , although i could not see it .
we had moored the canoe in the centre of the waterway , for safety , and i looked out across the water .
i saw a wren hopping fitfully through the undergrowth , on the river bank , and as i watched it in delight , some movement beyond the reeds suddenly disturbed the tiny bird .
i felt a coldness sweep over me and put out my hand to wake finder , who was still sleeping .
he woke up quickly and followed my gaze as something large moved swiftly away , close to the ground .
what was it ?
i whispered .
i do not know , finder replied , with urgency in his voice .
we must move on as soon as we can .
the day had dawned a cloudy grey .
cold mists threaded their silvery strands above the water .
the clouds stretched above us in a single , featureless , blanket across the visible world .
there was a chill in the air and we could feel that autumn was coming .
we made a hasty breakfast and , after washing in the renewed waters of the river , we went swiftly on our way .
that day and night passed without event and time was as seamless as the clouds above .
we paddled stealthily downstream aided by the current but the canal had become choked by weeds and silt , which frequently forced us to drag the canoe along the banks .
our progress was slow , if steady , and by evening we were both ready to rest .
despite our tiredness we took it in turns to sleep and watch through the night , mindful of our former visitor .
the coldness and the blackness seemed interminable but all remained quiet .
on thursday , we bypassed numerous locks where the river descended to the coastal plain .
it was hard work lifting and dragging the canoe around the dozens of lock gates and we travelled only a short distance that morning .
the journey home had started on a wave of relief and pleasure but it had changed .
i felt uncertain and nervous .
our progress slowed every day .
i became acutely aware of every sound and motion .
i searched the banks constantly for any movement out of place .
finder , too , had become quiet and watchful .
neither of us spoke of it by name , but we both knew that somewhere close at hand were the ever open eyes of the follower .
i had hoped to avoid it , said finder suddenly , by taking this quiet and forgotten route .
but now i have led us into an inevitable trap .
i should have used my wits .
this thing has to be faced sooner or later .
and it has to be faced by you .
when it comes to it , there is little i can do to help .
we paddled on .
the day was warm and hazy .
the air became sultry and still as the afternoon passed .
we are approaching the town where you stopped with crystal .
the canal goes through the centre of the town and we will be able to replenish our supplies at least .
we entered the town early on thursday evening .
the place appeared strangely empty and i felt a cool chill pass over me as i remembered the violent wolf men who had chased us in the woods before .
they had come from this town and i did not wish to experience their madness again .
several times i heard strange sounds and caught my breath , but there had been no further sightings of wolf men on our journey so far .
finder was weary and determined to rest up close to the town until morning .
we made our way out into the marshes on the other side , to a small creek away from the main river .
the air hummed with the sound of insects .
there was no breeze and the sun shone like a bloody red disc through the haze .
billowing cumulus was piling up on the horizon .
our evening meal was over when the familiar mists descended in a shroud .
but tonight the temperature did not drop and the air grew ever muggier .
i could hear a storm grumbling in the far distance and we decided to spread a tarpaulin above our canoe .
crouched under the dark hood of canvas , which we had supported with paddles and rope , it was almost cosy .
i slept at first , but before long i awoke to the flash of lightning and the crash of thunder .
rain drummed down on the tarpaulin , only inches from my head and bounced off the water all around the canoe .
it had grown cold and the rain blew in through the open ends of the shelter .
finder sat hunched under the cover and faced the night .
the lightning flooded the darkness with brief cold flashlight and momentarily exposed the world outside with all motion suspended .
we could not see far from our place in the creek but the bank on one side was not more than ten feet away .
finder swung the canoe around to face the bank and so avoid the worst of a soaking .
the storm was abating but flashes still traced through the clouds .
i looked out and then i saw it a frozen shadow framed by searing light .
a tall figure stood on the bank directly ahead .
the outline of a wide brimmed hat was clearly visible .
the complete darkness obliterated it in a second .
finder saw it too .
the torch , the torch , whispered finder hoarsely .
i dived back and got the torch .
finder turned it on and trained the beam at the bank .
the place appeared dark and empty at first .
suddenly , he caught the thing directly in the beam of light .
then i saw the outline of a tall figure , dripping and black and from under the hat , looking out was i looked away and looked again .
it was like my own face looking out , but ancient and pained with desperate staring eyes piercing the night .
this was the follower , but the follower was me .
i felt a sudden terror within .
what was this other me and what did it want with me ?
i wanted to look aside , to hide away , but i couldnt .
i grabbed the torch from finder and held it in the beam of light as it raised an arm and pointed with a gloved hand directly at me .
then it spoke and a voice , my voice but somehow strangely thin and ancient , drifted across the water , as though from a dream .
save me , come to me , help me , the creature sounded genuinely terrified .
shouldnt we go to it ?
i cried .
stay , stay , do not move , finder put his hand out to hold me .
its not you .
the shadow figure wavered for a moment and then it turned to look up the bank .
lights had appeared in the distance and were moving quickly down the river .
the follower stared into the dark .
finder whispered , the torch .
turn off the torch .
i turned it off , just as a new sound filled the night a howling wolf like cry .
the torches were flaring , flaming sticks that hissed in the rain but did not go out .
the wolf men ran to where the follower had been standing and started to beat at the shadows with sticks .
i could hear gasps and cries .
sweat was running down my face .
save me , save me , came again from the bank .
there is nothing we can do , finder said , still holding me .
no , no !
i cried .
stop !
the wolf men turned and saw the boat .
immediately , they clambered down the bank and into the creek .
the light reflected on the water around them as they waded towards us .
they wore masks and hoods to cover their faces and strange animal skin coats over their shoulders .
finder had not wasted a second but cut the ropes and threw the tarpaulin off the canoe .
he handed me a paddle .
go !
he shouted .
we paddled frantically back towards the main canal .
the wolf men followed , wading through the all too shallow river .
finder did not out pace them but stopped in mid stream to face them .
the centre of the main canal was too deep to cross on foot and the wolf men were struggling .
finder stood up in the canoe and held up his hand .
the flaming torches threw a ghastly light on his face .
stop !
do not come closer .
i have given my warning , his voice cut through the rain with purpose and power .
the wolf men stopped for a moment , surprised , but then they waded on regardless .
they had something gleaming in their hands and held up two long swords that reflected the flare of their torches .
again they uttered the awful cries and seemed poised to lunge forward .
they were barely six feet from us and the water was up to their waists .
finder lifted something from the canoe .
i could see it was large and dark in his hands .
he held it high in the air and then threw it across the water .
the dark shape spread out into a wide fishing net and landed on the wolf men .
finder pulled the rope and the net tightened around them .
the torches had dropped into the water and died .
i shone my torch on the net .
the captives were frantically trying to slash at the net with their swords but it was too late .
finder tied a long rope to the net rope and we paddled round and around the pair to truss them in the water .
they muttered oaths and shouted at us , but it was to no avail .
the swords had both sunk to the river bed and the wolf men were finally subdued .
finder tied the rope across the canal to two trees and stranded the evil pair where they stood .
he called out to them now you can wait til morning .
we will send someone to you then .
but let me warn you , if we ever meet again , i shall not be so forgiving .
if the captives made any reply , we did not stay to hear it what about the follower ?
i asked .
we may be able to help him .
there is nothing to help .
but what do you mean .
that thing , it was me .
i have a right to see it .
those foul creatures have attacked it because they thought it was me .
they tried to kill it .
they tried to kill me .
i want to go back .
i am going back .
i felt my temper rising up .
how dare you try and keep me from it .
i dont believe you .
i want to see the follower .
i want to see me .
finder did not reply but set a grim face and turned the canoe back towards the bank .
i leapt out .
there was nothing there .
i looked around as best i could with the torch .
there was no sign of anything except the foot prints of the two wolf men .
i felt wretched and confused , but got back into the canoe .
this is madness , i whispered .
harry .
believe me .
i understand how you feel , but it isnt madness .
it is just life .
but that thing is me .
it haunts me and needs me somehow .
i should help it .
no , harry .
i believe it is an evil thing that will destroy you if it can to get the crystal .
i believe it needs the power of that stone to find itself and return back to the living world , a living time .
perhaps it will take over your own life and lead you into oblivion .
i sighed , exasperated but made no reply .
there seemed no sense left in the world .
we made our way by torch light back up the canal to the empty town .
finder wrote a note to the sheriff and pinned it to the town notice board .
lets find a place to stay , finder spoke grimly .
at the end of a street there was a stable where we took our shelter for what remained of the night .
at first light we left our uncomfortable lodgings and went back to the canoe to check our things .
after making a rudimentary breakfast we went in search of people and provisions .
there was no one around .
the town seemed almost deserted .
most of the shops were closed but we found one to sell us food and drink and batteries for our torch .
the shop keeper eyed us suspiciously .
where are you from ?
i havent seen you about here before ?
were just passing through , replied finder .
on our way to the big city .
cant think why anyone wants to go there at the moment .
its much quieter here than i remember , i said .
the shop keeper rolled his eyes .
which planet have you been on , son .
why ?
why !
that wretched dam has burst , the pipelines bust and we havent got any water .
thats why .
and then theres those weirdoes , he continued , attacking people every night .
i tell you it aint safe here any more .
two people killed this last week .
aye , murdered .
no wonder everyones packed off someplace else .
you mean the wolf men ?
i asked and i saw him tense .
we met them last night down by the river .
they wont give you any more bother .
we tied them up .
the man eyed us both again , disbelievingly .
really !
and rolled his eyes .
well good day to you .
outside the shop we ran straight into the sheriff .
he was a worried looking man but with a shrewd eye and tall , a good six inches taller than finder .
i dont suppose one of you two is finder ?
finder held up his hand in acknowledgement .
well , you had better both come with me , then .
guess you know what this is about , my names stokes , sheriff stokes , he continued as we walked swiftly to the centre of town .
at his office , the note was on the table and there were three other men , each with a rifle .
the sheriff sat on the edge of the table and spoke .
ok .
lets hear it .
what happened and where are these wolf men as you call them ?
finder quickly relayed the tale from the night before but without any mention of the follower .
you must be a pretty stern guy .
from what i hear , these characters are scary and mean .
ok .
lets go and check it out , but the lad stays here .
he comes with us , said finder .
again , i was surprised at the authority finder held in his manner and voice .
sheriff stokes thought for a moment .
ok .
i guess you know what youre about .
but itll be your responsibility if anything goes wrong .
im in no mood for messing .
ill soon as lock you both up if i get any trouble .
come on guys , lets get this over with .
the sheriff got another rifle out of the gun cupboard on the wall and all six of us walked into the street and down to the river .
as we walked , i asked the sheriff .
who are these wolf men .
what do they do it for ?
i mean the first time they nearly killed us .
he stopped still , whoa , hold on now .
what do you mean the first time ?
about a week ago , they attacked my tent .
geez .
what is it with you two ?
yea , i found that tent .
spent a day looking for the bodies .
well , you can tell me about that later on .
we carried on walking and he continued .
these guys you call wolf men are vermin .
but they aint local .
id know if they were .
i know where they come from and i think i know what they want .
took me months to find out and i had to do a lot of following of a lot of folk to do it .
suddenly , i had an uneasy feeling .
the sheriff was wearing a wide brimmed hat .
he carried on talking .
you see , you guys probably take me for some local yokel of a sheriff .
but ive been about a bit and whats more , ive seen the both of you before .
he looked down at me , yes , and that girl with the horse .
you can tell me about her later as well .
we had reached the creek by the river where the wolf men were tied up .
to my great relief , they were still there .
a big grin spread across the sheriffs taciturn features .
wow .
now thats a nice job .
all trussed up .
look more like chicken than wolf to me .
ok guys .
jack and dick you keep them under your guns while me and josh get these two outta the river .
right oh .
mr stokes , they replied .
the sheriff cut the ropes holding the net but made the two men stumble up out of the river still caught in their net .
they were both shivering with cold .
in a short time the two men were out of the net and standing with hands tied behind their backs .
ok. time to meet these villains .
if they are who i think they are , you had better prepare yourself for a shock .
the silent jack and dick walked up to the men and took off their hooded masks .
well , well , well , said finder quietly .
i should have guessed .
how on earth ?
i exclaimed .
jack and dick roughly pulled off the costumes and there before us stood two young men with black leather jackets , black shiny hair , and blue jeans .
they both had dark glasses in their top pockets .
they were almost carbon copies but for their difference in size , which was comical .
one was short and fat and the other was tall and lean .
we meet again , bastard , said the tall one and spat .
his friend stood silently chewing on gum .
ill have my wallet back , i replied .
ok .
lets have all of you back to the lock up and sort all this out , and sheriff stokes prodded the tall one in the back with his rifle .
walk .
he sounded like a sergeant major .
the day had settled to a steady drizzle as we returned downstream towards the big city .
but the sky was showing a thin sliver of brightness on the horizon when we passed the creek where the unfortunate and soaking pair of rogues had cursed and shivered .
who are those two really ?
i asked .
like everyone else weve met on this journey .
they are not what they appear to be .
ive met them before and two of my colleagues from the double cross are searching for them now .
they are murderers and thieves .
and they are mercenaries .
they work for the highest bidder .
i wonder who was paying them to find you ?
they didnt seem too fussed to have you alive .
my guess is they stole your wallet just to make sure of who you were .
but what they wanted was that pretty stone you keep so carefully hidden .
you did well to keep that out of the conversation .
our friend stokes knows more about all of this than he lets on .
some miles further on , with the thought of another night in the open , i asked the question that had been burning in my mind all through the day .
what is the follower ?
finder was silent for a moment but then he replied .
my father once told me about the follower .
he told me it almost destroyed him when he was a young man .
i have seen the follower .
you have seen the follower .
and the follower you have seen is you .
maybe , everyone has a follower .
sometimes they are a burden and sometimes they become a part of you .
sometimes they survive and sometimes they die .
sometimes they are good and sometimes they seem evil .
maybe we all need a follower in our lives to make us stop and look behind or look ahead .
you must decide .
no one else can decide for you how your follower lives in your life .
it is down to your own conscience .
but i think the follower must go or it will haunt you and destroy you , or worse ... and he paused before continuing .
this thing you see is the result of the temptation to live forever , to be the master of time .
it grows older and older and older but it can never go back as a young man and be a part of the real world .
it sees you and knows you and desires to be you .
the temptation returns but the cycle must be broken this time or you will be forfeit .
that thing is ageless , ancient and terrifying , but it is not you ... yet .
suddenly , i began to see a little chink of light and understanding in what finder had told me .
i made no reply but wondered if my follower would shadow me to the end of my days ?
was he good or was he evil ?
we paddled on in silence .
the canal cut through by a circuitous route away from the streams that crystal and i had followed on our outward journey .
it curved in a broad path across the plain .
many streams fed this part of the river and the people had continued to maintain and use the canal after the construction of the dam .
the original purpose , for cargo transport , had changed over the years and very few barges travelled along the old waterway in modern times .
we passed many pleasure boats moored near the locks , but they all seemed deserted .
the final stretch of river ahead of the big city was empty of any other travellers or their boats .
the old passage of the river under the city was forgotten and the channel silted and blocked a long way before the grating that stood at the entrance to the tunnel .
the river had entered the marsh .
the water was too shallow for paddling so we waded through it , dragging the canoe behind us .
the smog bound city sat quietly on the horizon , like some giant grey and pink crab , growing larger with every mile that we travelled towards it .
i became aware of a change when we were about two miles from the airport perimeter and in sight of the distant buildings of the outer city .
the airport was silent .
there were no planes taking off or landing , although i did see some activity at the farther side .
the city folk had diverted the approach to the tunnel entrance when they built the airport and the channel curved to the right before it petered out in a bank of silt .
we climbed the bank and found the old channel where the river entered the tunnels through the grating .
it was a scene of devastation .
the tunnel had collapsed .
bricks and rubble , mixed with mud and debris , filled dozens of wide trenches that slashed across the airport like the branches of a tree .
the fallen tunnels cut the runways in two .
looking into the distance , i saw the ruined remains of the old underground river channel .
it looked as though some gigantic knife had cut the city in half .
the earthquake had struck these parts too and it had released the river from centuries of underground captivity .
in one brief and violent movement it had dramatically revealed itself to the unknowing , uncaring city that dwelt so arrogantly and ignorantly above it .
the destruction was too great to allow a passage by water .
we abandoned the canoe and lifted our possessions onto our backs .
i cant believe this is same place where chrissy and i came through .
it seems an age away .
somewhere just round here we caught fish and cooked them , i told finder .
we started walking to the big city .
we kept to the line of the river as best we could , but the piles of rubble and destruction prevented us from walking directly along it .
we covered the wide flat expanse of the airport .
it took hours to clamber across the many small channels .
at last we came to the perimeter and climbed through the tumble down security fence into the city outskirts .
everywhere , the people of the city were clearing up the mess of rubble , conduits and water that had so surprised them .
gangs of men and women laboured to build temporary shelters in place of the broken houses .
these tireless working folk , who had put aside their fashion and finery , seemed quite different to the ones i had seen on my outward journey .
some of them stopped and looked at us as we passed by .
we were completely inconspicuous here .
we were just another pair carrying our possessions on our backs and heading for somewhere else .
it was the story of the times .
i realised then , that the way people dress and behave from day to day does not flow from the soul .
they become followers of some ephemeral and slight social fashion .
here were the real people , digging for survival .
despite their adversity and , maybe , because of it , they seemed happier now .
i had probably seen some of these same people angrily driving their now useless cars through the crowded streets .
yet i knew that only time , and circumstance , divided these two peoples they were still the same .
it had taken a disaster a life threatening shock to the system , to bring out the real citizen , the heartwood , from beneath the veneer of fashion and modernity .
in every district of the city , the river had cut across all the main roads and left them in an almost useless condition .
hastily erected footbridges enabled pedestrians to cross the old river that had so recently returned .
we walked , carrying our loads , through the seven eastern districts of the big city and into the same park where i had stood with the big city gang once before .
the green acres were now covered with thousands of tents .
it was a city within a city .
the scar of the old river ran through it , in a mass of tumbled masonry and rubble .
a slight silvery reflection of the waters of the river was just visible beneath the fallen tunnel .
looking around , i could see the elegant buildings at the perimeter of the park but the place where the tall modern hotels had been was just an empty space behind a screen of trees .
the quake had razed those famous buildings .
workmen were busy erecting fences around the heaps of tangled steel and concrete .
it looked like a city at war .
the skyscrapers were destined never to be replaced .
a lesson had been learnt .
we came to a dell beside the river , where it had formed into a pool .
fallen trees covered the ground .
dozens of people were queuing to fill their water buckets .
the water hole was buzzing with chatter and we rested by a fallen trunk to eat lunch .
while we sat beside the trees , an old woman walked down to the rivers edge and knelt down .
she cupped her hands and lifted the water to her lips as she whispered to the air .
well , i never .
the old woman walked over to us and spoke .
i would never have believed it , but the girl was right , you know .
and it was me told her it was here !
would you like some food ?
i asked .
oh , yes , please dear .
i havent eaten today .
i got a bit lost trying to find the queue , she continued .
you know , that girl came and saw me again just to tell me she had found it .
found what ?
i asked , half guessing the reply .
she called it her secret river .
said you could still see it in the park .
and you would never believe it , never believe it , bless me no .
but one day she came round on a horse !
didnt she look a picture ?
crystal , i said .
it just has to be crystal , and i could not help myself laughing for joy at the thought .
at every turn she is there .
well i never , the old lady looked hard at me .
yes , thats right .
yes , crystal .
i do hope shes alright , after all this .
so do i , so do i , and i looked down into the dell where i had once stood with duffy , crystal and the horse .
penny for your thoughts , said finder chewing a piece of cheese .
oh .
i was just thinking .
i had some friends used to live underground near the river .
i dont suppose theres much chance they survived all this .
the old lady took her leave and shambled off along the edge of the tumbledown masonry that marked the passage of the river below .
after our meal , we moved on through the city and passed back through the seven western districts .
the weather was warmer in the metropolis , the season less obvious .
the air seemed strangely still there were no sounds except natural sounds .
no traffic choked the atmosphere and people walked down the centre of the carriageway .
the city had returned , just for a short while , to the people .
we passed a street close to the shopping district and i saw a solitary horse trotting towards us .
in this carless city , the horse seemed quite in keeping .
the horse looked at us for a moment , whinnied , and then it turned and continued on its way .
i recognised the look in its eye and smiled , but i did not speak .
it was late on friday evening when we finally arrived at the quayside and the sun already lay hidden below the horizon .
the silhouettes of the warehouses and cranes seemed familiar , almost homely .
we stood , two quiet shadows , beside the docks .
i looked around , remembering .
i must try and find the big city gang , i said .
i hope they have not suffered in the quake , they all lived in the tunnels .
nobody finds us , harry !
said a familiar voice in the darkness .
in the gloom of the night i detected figures walking towards us .
one approached and stood a few feet away .
tuffy spoke again .
harry , you have brought some friends .
i felt a thrill of excitement flow through me as we stood in the evening dark .
one friend , i corrected .
i see two , or rather i see one and i dont see the other , if you know what i mean .
we need to talk about that .
you know about the follower ?
i asked , surprised .
hes your little old shadow , harry .
i think hes kind of like you .
but i dont like him , hes just a child .
i think you should ask him to leave , or maybe you would like us to ditch him for you ?
said tuffy , menacingly .
no , you cant do that , hes ... hes ...
i stuttered into silence .
what harry ?
a ghost ?
your ghost .
i dont believe in ghosts , harry .
come over here now and listen .
i have a plan .
so these are your friends , i should have known , finder muttered beside me .
you never stop surprising me , harry .
finder and i walked over and the big city gang huddled around us .
okay , harry , said tuffy .
this is it , decision time .
do you want to be yourself or do you want to be followed the rest of your days ?
do you want to be free , harry ?
do you want to be you ?
cause you know you can never find your true friend all the time that thing is around .
you need to sort that out or youll be haunted the rest of your days , yer know .
of course i want to be free .
but i dont want to hurt anyone .
least of all least of all who , harry ?
asked finder , you ?
and dont forget your true friend , harry , said huffy with a sneer .
tuffy spoke again .
he seemed much older now .
shut it huffy .
then he turned to me .
i never said it would be easy .
you just have to believe in yourself , just once .
you just have to be you to be free .
weve all been there , harry .
thats what you see in us .
when you came to this city i dont think you knew why , but you knew we were free .
and you liked us .
and harry , he spoke quietly just to me alone .
yes , i answered .
chrissy , chrissys free .
but only if you are free .
tuffys voice quavered as he spoke .
yes , i know , i whispered .
you know my answer .
i will be free .
tuffy told us the scheme for the gangs final adventure in the big city .
when tuffy had finished talking , finder laughed and seemed to approve , but i was not so sure .
i was to be my own bait .
friends , harry , said duffy suddenly and everyone turned and stared at him , friends help you do the stuff you know you can do , but never do do .
trust me .
it was the first time i had ever heard him speak and now i felt speechless .
tuffy looked me straight in the eye and said , remember , harry , wherever you go , he goes .
he cant help it and thats how we trap him .
we go to the city centre tonight and visit the pleasure palace .
get the bikes , lads .
at tuffys command , the gang disappeared into the shadows and returned with eight old bicycles .
what are these for ?
i asked .
the roads aint what they were , but these will get us there good , said muffy .
i got one for your invisible mate too , said huffy proudly .
everyone laughed and huffy turned a little pink in the dark .
we journeyed in a creaking convoy to the city centre and arrived a little after midnight .
the pleasure palace was deserted .
the place had been an amusement park , but it closed for repairs after the earthquake damaged the rides .
the gang easily broke in through the main gates and rode into the empty car park in some style , and , to my amazement , singing their big city anthem .
they left the gates swinging and tuffy led us to a low , dark building , at the edge of the pleasure palace .
duffy forced the doors with his gemmy and i entered alone .
i had my torch but tuffy told me not to use it unless i had to .
the others all left me as i walked to the centre of a completely black space .
the dark was so intense that i could almost feel it pressing on my skin .
after twenty paces i stopped , then i turned and waited .
there was a lesser dark square where the doors stood open and inviting .
nothing moved and the silence hummed in my ears .
i waited and watched the grey space ahead of me .
without senses , i began to lose myself and would have panicked and run out if a shadow had not suddenly appeared .
it was a silent black figure in a wide brimmed hat , a deeper black against the dark grey doorway .
i thought it was standing still at first , but although there was no sound , the shadow slowly grew and i knew it was approaching the place where i stood .
the grey square behind the shadow figure suddenly and silently disappeared and we were in absolute blackness .
there was no escape .
it was just me and the follower this time .
i held up the white crystal in the darkness .
it began to emit a thin , pure , white sparkling light .
the light slowly grew and , all around us , tiny points of star light appeared in the darkness .
the follower emerged , in grey shadows , in front of me , with an outstretched arm .
he reached up towards the crystal but stopped with his invisible hand inches from my own .
i stayed absolutely still .
i stopped breathing .
the arm moved forward and the follower deliberately clamped the crystal between his fingers .
i felt an icy chill as we touched .
i thought my heart would stop .
i felt my senses reeling .
at that moment i was tested and i felt i should give way , turn and run .
but then i caught a glimpse of crystal in my minds eye , smiling down at me and i knew i had to be free i knew the tide was turning .
the crystal is mine , i said .
my life is my own .
i will be free .
my voice sounded halting , timid and quiet but the sound of it somehow built my confidence and i repeated my words but much louder , much clearer than before .
my life is my own .
i will be free .
at that moment i felt his fingers grip pause .
the crystal is mine , i repeated .
my life is my own .
i will be free , and then , despite myself , i heard my own voice commanding ego sum dominus temporis .
i heard him hiss , nooooo !
but i repeated the words three times ego sum dominus temporis .
ego sum dominus temporis .
ego sum dominus temporis .
i felt something change in his grip .
he suddenly released his hand and the crystal remained aloft .
i felt strong , much stronger than anyone , stronger than small the world of men and i heard myself laugh in scorn .
but i would not be tempted .
i will be free , my voice was stern .
i can choose .
i am now .
i am free , and this time my voice reverberated around the space .
ego sum dominus temporis .
the glimmering light suddenly flared and all around the hundreds of stars exploded into glaring blinding flares .
the follower spun around in a fury , holding his hands over his face .
the ancient figure began to produce a wailing sigh that grew into a searing shriek .
it ran to the edge of the chamber but crashed into the mirror wall .
it turned and ran frantically from side to side , colliding with the walls , shrieking all the while .
it seemed to search for the door but , in the hall of mirrors , it was lost in a thousand reflections that cascaded away in all directions .
i stood steadfastly still and waited for the end to come .
the followers appearance began to change liquid features slowly filled the vacant shadows beneath the cloak .
at first , i saw my own face and hands surrounding me the reflections cascading in the mirrors .
burning frightened eyes looked out .
the face passed through a lifetime in a minute .
the ancient man stopped and stared wildly about him and then he looked directly at me and lunged forward to strike at the crystal .
i stood my ground , waiting for the blow to fall .
but the harry he attacked was only a reflection and a huge mirror shattered into fragments at his feet .
the follower fell slowly to the ground and with a despairing sigh he rolled over onto his back .
he looked older still and tired and sad .
he lay motionless and silent , his features changing as he aged , beyond the realms of mankind , into the kingdom of the ancients .
i moved beside him and looked down .
the tears dropped down my cheeks .
he seemed a harmless , weak old man .
his face was wrinkled and small , like a monkey , with fathomless eyes that looked at me across all the years of his age .
i felt pity for this super natural creature who was yet one of my own kind .
the skin on his face began to shrivel and he hoarsely whispered to me , to me now , my own destruction .
the light faded from his eyes and the black hat sagged over a skeletal form that visibly disintegrated before me .
within one long minute it had turned into a heap of grey ashen dust .
i stooped down and picked up the hat .
at last i understood .
the follower was gone and only the crystal was left .
only crystal was left .
and the crystal was mine .
the light faded and i heard the scraping of the door as it opened behind me .
the big city gang moved slowly into the chamber and finder came to my side .
it is over , he said simply .
we all left the scene of death and returned to the dock side .
the gang were strangely quiet during the journey .
tuffy came up to me and spoke .
harry .
we must say good bye .
i do not know who you are or why you came here , but i see you have strong friends .
they will look after you .
but now our time has also come .
the big city gang is here today but gone tomorrow .
we will leave before sunrise .
there is nothing for us in the big city now .
the people have changed .
they have discovered community .
they are not scared any more because that night , when the ground trembled , they were more scared than ever before .
there is no place for a gang in a good city .
we have all survived but there is no star chamber and our secret ways have been removed without trace .
these things , we think , are maybe your doing ?
but no matter , we will find a new world , a new place , over the mountains maybe .
perhaps we could find the source of this old stream !
we are going , but you may remember us .
good bye harry !
bon voyage .
and remember , you are free .
there was a murmur from the others as they sank into the shadows .
good bye !
i blurted out .
go to the mountains and good luck go with you .
i felt something well up inside me .
i wanted to follow them , to belong again , as i had that night , once before .
but they were gone and a sudden sorrow settled over me as i stared after them into the night .
the shadows had melted away and i heard no reply .
i felt saddened that the big city gang had been forced to leave , but i was relieved that they were all well .
finder remained quiet for a time and looked away , out towards the sea .
the night breeze was chill and the salty wind dried my eyes as i too looked out to where suidhe , my home , lay cloaked in darkness .
we walked through the silent streets to the ferry terminal .
it was closed and deserted but a sign outside announced the resumption of the island service in the morning .
i spent an uncomfortable night half sleeping on a grimy bench .
my travelling companion remained silent and often wandered off , seemingly troubled .
on saturday , the early morning dawned grey and cool .
i looked across the sea towards the island but could not see it .
again , as it so often does , mist had descended across the horizon a few miles out from the land .
we collected our bags and walked to the door .
there was no electric power and the building was dark .
the large halls and corridors within , where the bustle of travellers usually roamed day and night , were vacant .
a rather dowdy man came to the door and directed us around the side of the building , through the car parks and yards , to where the ferry waited .
it looked deserted .
we were the only passengers who boarded .
the crew waved us aboard and a young seaman told me that we would not need a ticket for this journey .
the boat waited until the appointed time to depart , but no other passengers arrived .
finder paced the deck and kept looking out across the wilderness of empty car parks and deserted roads while the sailors prepared the boat to leave .
he said nothing but i felt sure he was looking for something .
surely not the follower ?
the ferry slipped its moorings and the engines roared .
the vessel moved out into the harbour channel .
only then did my companion turn and head for the shelter of the cabin .
a squall of rain splattered across the decks as we opened the door to the stairway below .
we descended to the saloon .
five silent men sat on the benches surrounding the wall and looked almost statuesque .
on the sight of his friends , finder burst into a smile and strode forward open armed to meet them .
they all stood and the lords of the double cross , dressed now in plain clothes , greeted each other in silence .
the port was fading from view behind a wall of approaching rain .
ahead , the clouds clung to the sea .
the boat moved on and it seemed as if the world outside the vessel was just a dream .
a few minutes later , the big city had disappeared behind but the island was not yet revealed ahead .
the isolation of this empty place on the ocean filled me with some strange foreboding .
my mind ached with confusion and tiredness .
i sat away from my companions and it seemed to me that i was a part of a larger thing just one piece in a play that had already been written .
it was the essence of dj vu .
the six world worn travellers looked at me and , after a time , the gold lord spoke .
harry , he said , your journey is almost over .
you will be pleased to return home .
do not be surprised by what you find .
one day we will meet again in a different place and at a different time .
we do not ask anything of you now , except this .
when suidhe comes into view , go aloft and return to the island in the same manner as you left it .
you will be the guardian of the white crystal for the rest of your days and it will pay you to keep it where it belongs , on the island .
some things that appear to change remain the same , just as some things that appear the same are always changing .
so it is with life , we grow older but yet we do not .
time takes us around in circles of experience .
the gold lord was quiet and i could not find any reply .
the quiet voice of finder reciting another travelling poem broke through the thin silence that surrounded us .
the words seemed old and stony as the minstrel told a final tale .
the ferry cruised on through the white fog and a slight shimmer of blue showed across the bows .
the rain speckled windows brightened and the boat emerged into the real world again .
the showers lay behind , while ahead , the early morning sun burnished the ocean with the golden light that gilds the autumn storms .
i felt the blood return to my veins .
my head became flushed .
something deep and homely welled below the surface of my thoughts .
i walked unsteadily up the stairs to the deck .
turning towards the bow , i saw the horizon covered in green and grey and blue .
it was the cloud covered hills of the island , my island .
this was suidhe , my home , once more .
the bracing wind blew across my face but i did not feel it .
tears trickled like rain on my cheeks but i was not aware of them .
an immense happiness filled me up to overflowing as the familiar shape of the land steadily grew and completed my vision .
seagulls chased noisily overhead .
i made my way back to the place where i had hidden on my outward journey and thought about the gold lords words .
i had not understood , until then .
i took the white crystal in my hand .
i whispered to the wind ego sum dominus temporis .
even as the island had reappeared , i fell under the spell .
one last time , i held the stone in my hand .
i did not know why .
i walked down to the saloon through the open doors but no faces turned .
i wondered if they could see me or was i travelling in a different time ?
i went back up to the deck .
the wind blew through my hair .
i could have laughed out loud in my joy and i waited for my home to return to me .
here , now , i could decide .
i felt truly free .
the ferry entered the harbour and drew over to the dock .
the crew secured her as the six lords waited to cross to the shore .
i followed behind and found myself walking on the land that i loved .
the ground felt firm beneath my feet as i returned to the sea wall and found my alcove .
my hand released the crystal .
i was worn and tired with emotion .
i sat down and my head nodded until i heard the sea sloshing by the harbour wall as if in a dream .
i opened my eyes , which had been inexplicably closed .
i yawned and blinked and lifted my heavy head .
the sky had clouded again .
the morning was grey and damp and the musty smell of autumn was in the air .
a feeling of dreaming filled my mind like a silent questioner .
i held up my head and listened all was quiet except the slow wash of the sea and the sound of the wind in my ears .
i looked about me .
on the far side of the harbour , high on the cliff , by an old house , i saw a solitary figure looking down .
something in my memory moved and i wondered who the distant man might be .
i sat there for a while watching the boat as the dock workers unloaded the post and cargo .
a handful of passengers arrived to board the ferry back to the big city .
i recognised all of them .
the time i had spent on the mainland seemed to have slipped away .
i sat and watched the harbour life , just as i had done before .
i felt as if i had never been away , and yet i knew that i had .
i put my hand in my pocket to prove it to myself again .
there was the hard shape of the brooch that crystal had given me the night we left erebos , when i had given her the old coin from sgurr cavan .
i took out the brooch and looked at it .
a small , almost insignificant thing it seemed .
simple , gold and in the shape of a fish , it was set with a single glistening stone .
i wondered how she was and if i would ever see her again .
i stood up and , remembering the lords of the double cross , i looked around to see if they were still in the harbour .
but they , too , had gone .
i had not slept much the night before and i began to feel drunk with sleeplessness .
it was still early in the morning and it looked like rain .
i walked slowly away from the harbour and up the narrow street to my house , at the top of the hill .
the curtains were drawn across the windows .
my parents were not yet up .
i slipped around the back of the house , to the ledge in the garden and to my amazement i found that my window was open , just as i had left it .
i heaved my duffel bag in and climbed into the house as quietly as i could .
i shut the window behind me and stood in my room .
leaving my clothes on the floor , i climbed into the bed .
it was the first proper bed i had slept in since leaving erebos .
the warm sheets were heavenly .
snuggled within them i looked around the small room .
my tired eyes were closing .
the mantelpiece , the pictures on the wall , the calendar still showing the day i had left , all was blissfully familiar , the essence of comfort , security , home .
within seconds i was asleep .
chapter ten two hearts chrissy dismounted neptune and walked along the dusty track towards the farm , her home .
she knew that she should be happy .
her wishes had come true and yet something still dragged at her feet and made them sluggish .
there was doubt in her mind .
what would she find when she reached the old house in the fields ?
it was not far to go and she was soon close to the familiar places of her childhood , but they had all changed .
the sight of the dusty , dry land made chrissy feel sad .
the hedges and trees were already brown the skeletal leaves half fallen .
there were no birds in the sky .
a strange , weary silence weighed heavily upon her ears and oppressed her thoughts .
the only sound was the soft fall of her shoes and the quiet clop of the horse .
she slowed almost to a standstill as she approached the final corner .
chrissy took a deep breath , walked firmly on and the farmhouse came into view .
but the sight of the old house took all thoughts of worry from her mind .
her heart leapt to be back home and she led the horse into the yard .
she opened the creaking door , slowly .
just for a moment , she thought the house was empty .
her heart faltered , where was everyone ?
no one came to greet her and she could hear no sound from within .
chrissy walked across the threshold and stood in the gloom of the kitchen .
her heart was beating fast now .
suddenly , freeway and bess , the two old dogs , raced across the room and jumped up .
their tails were wagging and their excited eyes shining with happiness .
she threw down her pack and hugged the dogs affectionately .
freeway , bess .
how ive missed you .
you silly old things , she exclaimed .
she picked up her bag again and stood silently listening .
chrissy looked through the tears that glistened in her eyes and called out mum , dad , im home , then she waited .
there was a hurried clattering of feet on the stairs and the round moony face of her mother stared disbelievingly across the room .
her father followed his wife into the kitchen and all three of them stood for a moment in silence .
only the dogs moved , chasing their tails and scampering across the room in their excitement .
chrissy dropped her bag on the floor .
she began to laugh and running to her mother , embraced her .
she looked at her father and said im so happy to be home .
everything will be all right now .
the dam has gone , father .
i saw it go .
we stood there and saw it go .
you will not believe my adventures .
say something , please say something ...
her father stood absolutely still .
with flickering dark eyes he looked straight at his daughter .
then he raised his hands and let out a great bellowing laugh .
chrissy laughed with him , and they hugged each other .
days later , the early morning sun climbed above the hills in the distance .
the familiar backdrop of the snowy mountains glinted in the rosy light .
chrissy and her father were already up and planning their day .
they had so much to do on the farm .
chrissys return had been the catalyst for action .
they were engrossed in their plan .
together they would build the best farm in the heartland .
the crops had failed this year , but next year they would be ready for a great harvest .
they stood in the yard poring over a large plan of the farm when the sound of voices broke through the silence and chrissy looked up .
she saw a group of bedraggled and weary figures walking along the track .
two of them were pulling an old cart piled with bulging sacks and boxes .
she recognised them immediately and caught her fathers arm .
five youths strolled nonchalantly into the yard .
one walked ahead with his hands in his pockets and kicked the dirt with his worn out shoes .
he stopped and stood in front of chrissy and her father .
freeway and bess stood between them , snarling at the intruders .
the dusty city clothes of the youths were incongruous and outlandish in the countryside .
chrissy stifled a laugh as she surveyed the five dissimilar lads .
they had been supremely confident in the city , but now they were awkwardly scuffling in the dirt of the farmyard .
chrissy called the dogs to heel with a whistle .
chrissys father began to speak , what the ... , but his daughter interrupted him .
tuffy , muffy , huffy , puffy , duffy !
she cried .
you cant come here , this isnt a city !
and she laughed with joy to see them .
however did you find me ?
she asked .
tuffy stepped forward and said , rather meekly , crystal , we didnt , he admitted .
it was just chance that brought us here .
weve been walking forever through this forsaken place .
we need a rest .
but now that we are here , i just wondered if we could borrow a barn for tonight , just for one night .
he stepped back and waited .
puffy , meanwhile , had found a pig and the two creatures were holding a staring match over a fence .
the pig squealed and puffy turned away and blushed bright pink .
it was the first live pig he had ever seen and he just couldnt believe his eyes .
you cant stay in the barn ... said chrissy , but you can stay in the house .
weve plenty of room .
and to her father she said , these are some of my friends from the big city .
they can stay , cant they ?
she smiled disarmingly as she spoke .
chrissys father stood with his hands on his hips watching them suspiciously for a moment and then , relaxing , he said if chrissy says youre all right , lads , then youd better come on in , and he turned towards the farmhouse as the others followed .
you need some breakfast , by the look of you .
weve got some fresh bacon and eggs and a cup of tea .
a horrified look spread over puffys face .
you dont eat them pigs , do yer , mister ?
i aint never goin to eat bacon again .
no , i couldnt do that .
everyone laughed , except puffy , and they all walked into the kitchen , where they sat down at the great table .
the big city gang hadnt eaten wholesome food for days and they gorged themselves without talking .
after a while , chrissys father broke the silence listen , he said , we need some help here .
theres a lot of work to be done .
hard work , mind more than i can manage .
could you folks stay for a while and lend a hand ?
in return well put you up and feed you , but i cant offer much else .
oh , we dont need no money , said muffy .
weve got a barrow load of that outside .
just cant find nothing to spend it on .
yea , well work for you , mister , said tuffy , wont we lads ?
they all cheered and shouted , the big city gang !
at that moment , chrissys mother walked serenely through the room .
she wore a flowing blue robe and her pale face held a perfect smile .
she passed by the company without appearing to notice them and stepped out into the yard .
all the breakfasters turned their heads and looked after her in silence .
after her daughters return , chrissys mother moved into a distant dream world of her own making .
but the sound of the river babbling by the yard and the ducks splashing on the pond seemed to be working a cure for her melancholy .
her strange cool smile would occasionally break into open laughter as she sat and watched her family and the new helpers working on the dusty dry land .
a week after tuffy and the others had arrived , a new tractor and implements appeared in the farmyard .
it had all been bought with the casino money that chrissy had brought back with her .
even before the big city gang had arrived , chrissy and her father had argued a dozen times about returning the money .
listen , mister , said tuffy , i dare say you dont think much of us .
but theres no point handing any money back .
there aint no one to hand it to .
that casino hit the dust and itll be years before they build another , if they ever do .
even the big city bank has moved someplace else .
chrissy eventually persuaded her father at least to borrow it and return it after they had put the farm to rights .
after all , she said , the casino was a place where people went to lose money .
the five lads worked hard and long .
together , they enlarged the pond to act as a reservoir and channelled new irrigation ditches across the fields .
the weeks passed by but the gang did not move on there was too much to do .
the workers were enjoying the new pleasures of labour .
they felt the satisfaction of physical effort and a job well done .
the years together on the streets of the city had made them a formidable team .
tuffy and chrissys father began to make plans for the future .
they bought the abandoned neighbouring properties at a bargain price using the money from the casino raid .
under the expert guidance of chrissys father , they prepared everything as best they could for the winter .
when we go , mister , said tuffy , youll have to hire some help from somewhere .
you could always stay , he replied .
no , were city people , not country folk , said tuffy .
we can cross the mountains and find another city .
we need streets and people , not cows and corn .
well see ... well see .
the winter months were harsh .
the clouds filled the fields with snow and the rivers with rain .
the mountains were impassable , so tuffy and the others decided to stay until the cold weather was over .
the cold months passed and when the spring came it was bountiful and brilliant .
the crops grew in the fields like a green tide spreading across a desert .
the new farmers slowly forgot their dreams of a new city as they watched their corn rising in the fields .
they found themselves more and more at home in the country .
as the weeks lapsed into months they found that they had decided to stay .
the five farmers with chrissy and her father formed a co operative .
in the early days of their new life , they lived in a large farmhouse about a mile away from chrissy .
slowly , they renovated the other surrounding farms , until each member of the old gang had a farm of his own .
puffy became a pig farmer .
the memories of their years in the city faded in the new world of the heartland .
other people returned to the villages and some went to work on the farms .
through hard work and diligence , the community slowly revived , renewed and prospered .
there were many hardships and setbacks in those years , but the new farmers learnt their trade well .
they put their youth behind them and they stopped using their old gang names .
no one who came to the area knew of their past .
they slowly metamorphosed into the new farmers union .
eventually , they gathered together enough profit to put aside the money they had stolen from the casino .
they used this to start a charity to run a local school for a new generation of children .
one by one , the members of the new farmers took wives and raised families themselves .
all except tuffy who stayed alone .
he seemed to be waiting for something .
years of hard work brought rewards and the farms grew .
the families became wealthy and supplied the big city with cereal , milk and livestock .
chrissy and her parents stayed on their own farm , at the centre of the new community .
it was a community that had sprung from their efforts and vision .
chrissy would ride from field to field through the long summer evenings on her favourite horse .
the one the emerald lord had given to her .
then one fine day she walked out to find another horse .
it had arrived alone in the farmyard and waited patiently for her as she approached .
it was a large but very old horse with a scar on its hind quarter .
it had travelled many miles to her heartland home but she never knew how it had found her .
she cried when she saw old pegasus , because it reminded her of harry .
chrissy did not tell all her adventures to her parents or friends .
she often remembered the long journey through the tunnel and across the mountains .
sometimes , late at night , watching the moon by the pond , she wondered what had become of her travelling companion and friend , harry .
hard work put him out of her mind but always the memories came back and they scared her .
she had just been a girl then , harry just a boy and it seemed that maybe it was all just a dream , just a teenage fantasy .
then she thought of tuffy , now a strong , clear headed farmer and she knew he was waiting for her to decide .
if only she could know which way to go .
she sat on her bench as the stream trickled by a babbling melody , like a song , came into her head .
hear me , harry , she whispered , hear me , now .
and chrissy sang to the far plains and the sea .
in the house , her father smiled .
history is the password just cryptic clues to the crossword , answering the questions in time .
all knowledge is invented by memories that are tainted , stained by the mystery and crime ... of time .
the standing stones have stood so long , the thrones of kings who once were strong , their armies buried beneath these rolling hills .
but now the power is diluted , the streams of thought are all polluted , men are poisoned by their selfish wills .
make your way , the vision has ended love lies lost and undefended , the castle walls fall broken to the ground .
the light has dimmed , the mirror shattered , the strength of life lies crushed and scattered where are the answers to be found ?
in spirits of the future sailing , brighter than the comet trailing above the rolling winter evening skies .
trust in love , reach for survival , life returns with your arrival see time passing higher as she flies ...
turn around and face the future find the truth , a new adventure , the journey holds the answer to the dream .
take my hand and find a new way the passing night will bring a new day , lay beside me and listen to the stream ... ... you are the answer to my dream .
my dreams were filled with water .
rivers , falls , lakes and breaking dams crashed and then lulled to the quiet call of a distant stream .
i heard chrissy singing far away .
i woke up suddenly to the sound of my fathers voice calling from downstairs .
harry , do get up , its late !
i was in between sleeping and waking , in that cloudy never never land where reality is hard to place .
but the sight of my tattered duffel bag , on the floor beside the bed , brought my thoughts to order .
how long had i been away ?
i didnt know .
somehow , i had lost count of the days .
i was not even sure which day of the week it was .
the clock on the desk showed a quarter past eleven .
breakfast must have finished long ago .
how could i explain where i had been ?
who would believe me if i did ?
questions filled my head as i got out of bed and dressed .
i felt relieved and surprised when i heard the front door open and my father say his usual general good bye , to whoever would listen .
the moment of telling had been delayed , for a while , but why had he gone out without asking me where i had been ?
i went downstairs and i felt as though i was suffering from amnesia , only in reverse .
i could remember too much .
time had passed , things had happened , momentous adventures had occurred and yet , i didnt quite know had it all been true ?
i found that the house was empty and i sighed with relief .
the kitchen table was still laid with my place for breakfast .
i prepared some food and i ate heartily .
the simple familiar place appeared quaint as i remembered the grandeur of erebos .
but this small happy house was greater , it was my home .
i was back at last , it was real and i felt the tide of relief , building on the shores of my mind .
i began to work out how long i had been away , counting the days off in my head .
i went to the big city on a saturday and met the big city gang .
crystal and i had left through the tunnels overnight on saturday and we spent sunday in the darkness of the underground river .
the two of us had crossed the marshes by river on monday and tuesday .
we had passed through the small town on the wednesday and that night we stayed in the yew wood coomb but fled from the terrifying wolf men in the woods .
the lords of the double cross accompanied us through the forest on thursday .
the party arrived at erebos on thursday night and there we stayed overnight .
we were entertained at erebos on friday but escaped on friday night , which was the night of the first quake .
chrissy and i climbed into the snowy mountains on saturday and watched the second earthquake break the dam on saturday afternoon .
afterwards , we made our way through the mountains on saturday and sunday , descending to the plains on monday .
i parted company with chrissy on tuesday morning , after meeting finder .
finder and i travelled downstream through tuesday , wednesday and thursday .
shadowed by the follower , we entered the big city on friday where we met the big city gang and where the follower finally met his end .
we spent the night in the city and caught the ferry home early this morning .
two weeks exactly so today should be a saturday .
the daily paper was in the usual place on the sideboard and i picked it up to confirm the day .
yes , it was a saturday .
but , no , it couldnt be the date on the paper was the 3rd september , the day on which i had left .
if this was todays paper , i had never been away !
perhaps they had kept this old one .
i saw the note that i had written two weeks earlier , it was lying on the floor below the mantelpiece , half hidden and untouched .
it must have fallen down .
i blushed involuntarily and put the piece of paper in my pocket .
i went into the study where my father kept a desk calendar it was also set to 3rd september .
i began to worry .
had my adventure only been a dream ?
i ran upstairs to my room and searched for the brooch that crystal had given to me .
it was safe where i had put it .
i heaved a sigh .
i knew i had been there , that we had been together .
but somehow time had played tricks on me .
strange happenings and magic crystals , ancient legends and old lords were these things to be understood ?
the earthquake , had that been real ?
the postman called and pushed some letters through the door .
the post always came late on a saturday .
i picked them up and nearly dropped them two were for me .
i opened the first letter nervously it was from my friend frank , now living in the big city .
it had been posted two weeks earlier .
it began ... dear harry , we moved in last week and have a house in the housing district , which is district 5 .
the city is a wonderful place and one day soon you must come and visit .
i will show you all the sights .
you will not believe your eyes !
... and so it continued .
the letter was signed frank .
the second letter had unfamiliar handwriting on the envelope .
the letter had been addressed simply to harry , the old schoolhouse , oldford , suidhe .
i opened it and removed the paper .
dearest harry , i arrived back home on the farm yesterday .
my mother is not very well but my father is like a new man .
the river has really returned now .
i just can not believe it and neither can the ducks !
i hope you are well and have arrived safely .
how strange it has been , but how wonderful it is now .
the farm will take a while to put right , but i gave my father the money from the casino , that should see us through .
i have not told them all the stories yet they would never believe me if i did !
and they have not asked .
my father says it is a miracle and in a way it is .
i could go on writing forever , but i dont know where to begin .
so i will go now .
i have to look after my mother .
i shall think of you every day and one day we will meet again .
please write .
love chrissy .
i knew then that everything was true and real , but how , i did not dare to think .
the sun broke through the clouds outside and sparkled on the distant sea .
i took my jacket and went outside , walking slowly down the road to the quayside , savouring every inch , enjoying every moment of the way .
something inside me was elated .
i felt light and happy .
i sat down by the harbour wall and read and re read the letter from chrissy while the boats sailed in and out of the harbour below me .
i saw old eric making his slow , hobbling way across the quayside , and he came to sit beside me on the bench .
what you got there , boy ?
he chuckled .
love letter is it ?
the old man grinned as i blushed and i quickly put the letter away .
not still looking for them stones , are yer ?
no , i said .
i dont think i want to find them any more .
we sat together for a while and he talked of the old days at sea , but i could only think of my own adventures and soon went on my way .
i decided to walk up sgurr cavan to the temple of the wind and see if i could understand what had happened so long ago and how i had become a part of it .
i felt the weight of the white crystal in my pocket and wondered what was really true and what was false .
then i returned slowly to the house .
i found my mother and father at home .
my heart missed a beat and i hesitated by the door but they barely lifted their eyes as i entered .
i told them that i would be going up the hill and made up some provisions .
i took my duffel bag from upstairs and went down to the kitchen .
who are you going with ?
asked my father .
no one , i replied .
i dont think you should go alone .
i will go with you , he said .
i havent been up there for years .
and somebody has to stop you catching your death again !
at first , i felt affronted by the thought .
but i relented and , shortly afterwards , we set out on the walk .
the journey to the hill was uneventful .
we walked together in silence , for most of the time , and we arrived , dusty but unscathed , at the summit .
the two of us stood at the temple of the winds and looked out across the magnificent views towards the mainland .
my father broke the silence and said i had a dream once , when i was about your age , which i have never forgotten ... as he spoke , a figure suddenly emerged at the precipice of the hill , silhouetted on the skyline , in front of the sun .
we both froze and stared in silence .
in that moment and without warning , i felt scared .
the dark figure stood still , watching us and then another joined him , and another and another , until there were six , standing in a curve , at the edge of the clearing .
one of the six walked slowly towards us and i recognised something in his manner .
i walked forward to meet him .
stop , harry , my father called out but i kept on walking .
the gold lord strode to meet me and we shook hands .
he smiled and i turned and beckoned to my father , who was still standing behind and watching .
meet my friends , father , i said .
we have already met , harry , said the gold lord , at the council of the elders .
we have come to the island to choose a new white lord , said the emerald lord .
and so we call upon your father , continued the red lord .
to ask his permission to nominate you , harry , said the violet lord .
why me ?
i stammered .
because you have the white crystal , answered the purple lord .
if you accept , said the blue lord .
there is one condition , spoke the gold lord .
the white crystal must remain on the island , where it is safe , and where it will do no harm .
suidhe will be its resting place .
the white lord is the guardian of the crystal , and the island will be the guardian of the white lord , he added .
finder had returned in his finery as the emerald lord .
he stepped forward and looked directly at me as he spoke .
you need not accept this burden now , he said .
i shall remain on the island , for as long as necessary , until your decision is made .
i shall tell you of the ways of our order and of the lords of the double cross .
we will go now , but i shall see you again , soon .
this is a symbol of faith to call you to the council of the elders .
inside , you will find all you need to know .
good bye .
so saying , he gave me a small wooden case emblazoned with the double cross .
it contained a gold chain and a medal struck with the same symbol .
the case also held a small parchment scroll .
i opened the scroll and read by this act and upon the order of the council of the elders we call upon you to attend in good time at the appointed place with our company where we wish to lay before you our argument in your favour .
our meet will convene on friday at sunset .
signed the master of the council of the elders .
the cleve , suidhe .
the lords of the double cross all bowed before us and retired as secretly as they had arrived .
i wanted to ask my father what he knew , how much of a part he had played .
i looked at him as he stood there staring out to sea .
this is a beautiful island , he said .
i love living here , it fills me with contentment and i long for nothing else , except for the happiness of my family .
he turned to me and smiled .
say nothing now , he said .
next week we will go to the cleve and the meet .
i think it will become a little clearer then .
we stayed for a while on the summit of the sgurr cavan but soon we walked back to the path .
a misty cloud spread across from the mainland as we descended to the coast and oldford .
my father and i set out for the cleve on the friday evening .
the old building overlooked the harbour and stood on its own , away from the other buildings in oldford .
i recognised it as the place where i had seen the man standing above the harbour .
an aged butler opened the door and showed us into a small dining hall within .
a long , grey , wooden table rested on trestles , surrounded by sixteen chairs .
at the centre of the board was a carving of the double cross and around it the words ego sum dominus temporis were engraved in an old gothic script .
there were six chairs along each side and two at each end .
the lords of the double cross sat along the left side and six others sat along the right side .
a sign was carved into the table top , in front of each of the six lords of the double cross r knowledge , g freedom , e friendship , b truth , p destiny , v faith .
all were silent as we entered .
the butler indicated our places at one end of the table .
the two remaining seats were empty .
the letter w with the word reason was carved in front of one and in front of the other was the letter s and the word mystery .
everything in the chamber seemed ancient and rustic .
dust spread along the shafts of evening sunlight that penetrated through high windows .
a small , wrinkled man , whom i took to be the master , stood and bowed .
his melancholy , crow like voice crackled through the hazy , dry air the council of the elders welcomes you to this meet .
let the business commence .
the preamble to the meeting was slow and long .
i sat and gazed at the company .
the sun was setting and the butler entered to light six old candles that stood in grotesque wax covered stands along the length of the table .
the light illuminated the faces and sparkled in the eyes of the men .
i did not recognise the members of the council .
they all appeared very old and somehow unworldly .
yet they also had an air of timeless wisdom that shone in their eyes , so clear but so deep .
at last , the master turned to me and spoke .
i call on you , harry small , who are with us this day , to accept the position of guardian of the white crystal .
should you take this burden , then you shall be the white lord of the company of the double cross the lord of reason .
i am empowered to offer you the whole protection of the council of the elders for as long as that is required .
he paused and then looked directly at me .
what say you , young man ?
he asked .
all eyes were upon me .
i stood up and looked around the company .
i can not reply here , i said .
i believe i am not ready .
but i propose a solution .
why can you not take the white crystal into safe keeping within the council ?
that may never be , he said .
we are powerful and , as you have seen , our number can be corrupted .
it would not be safe for us or for our world if we held the white crystal we journey about the world too far .
also , our time here is short and the world has long to live after we have gone .
the time has come for these mysteries to pass into the modern world and then our place in history will fade to a memory .
but why is it safe for me ?
i asked .
because you are truthful and without ambition for yourself .
because you alone have seen the secret of erebos and can understand the power that lurks there .
because you faced the follower and now you are free .
but most of all , you have discovered the secret place where it is said the white crystal grows .
i looked up and remembered the silhouette on the skyline above the sgurr cavan .
the master continued you shall come to see that the choice has already been made .
the council will wish to discuss in camera .
you may leave .
the butler immediately returned and ushered my father and me to an ante room .
we stayed there for some time while the indecipherable murmurings of the elders droned on in the dining hall .
we sat in silence and i almost fell asleep .
finder eventually came and requested us to return to our places .
time had passed slowly .
i looked at the clock , it was a quarter to twelve .
we returned to the meeting room .
the master stood and spoke .
we have decided .
we accept your argument and wish only this .
the white crystal will remain with you , but our request will remain also .
the emerald lord will stay upon suidhe until you reach a decision .
these things will come to pass at the proper time .
the master sat down , but even as he sat , there came a distant rumbling crack , very faintly borne on the night air .
a slight shower of fine powder filtered down from the roof of the hall and we all felt a small but perceptible vibration beneath us .
instantly i knew the earthquake .
it was friday night !
the earthquake at erebos had occurred today .
strangely , time was returning to itself .
i was here and now but yet i knew i was also somewhere far away then .
i understood why we had been summoned so late to this meeting all eyes were upon me in that dreary hall but no one spoke .
a minute of silence passed and i stood waiting .
the company stood with me and the master said in a melancholy voice it is the beginning of the end .
the council remained standing as the butler ushered my father and me from the room .
outside , it was cold and i shivered .
towards the mainland , i saw brief flashes from an approaching storm across the sea .
you have decided wisely , my father said as we walked down the hill .
life will go on now .
the following day there was a further vibration the second dam breaking quake and somewhat stronger than the first , but there appeared to be no damage done on the island .
after i returned to suidhe , my life did return to normal and so it continued for many years .
the time passed much as it had before my adventure on the mainland .
i only sent one short letter to chrissy and i did not know if it was received because i had no reply .
despite my good intention , i never made time to send another and so we lost contact .
two years later , i went away to a university in a distant town far away from suidhe and the big city .
i remained there for three years .
i had always intended to return to the island , but after i qualified i found a job working on the mainland , in the big city .
my life in the big city was a disappointment .
at first , i tried to find some trace of the big city gang , but so much had changed after the earthquake that there was no sign of the places i had known so many years before .
i never found the gang and they never found me i concluded that they really had gone away across the snowy mountains .
i did seek out my old friend frank .
to our great joy , we renewed our friendship .
after two years in the big city , i obtained a different situation in a provincial town many miles away .
in all , i was away for nearly seven years before i finally sailed back across the sea to my birthplace .
it was ten years after the adventures of the white crystal and the earthquake , when i finally returned to suidhe .
on my arrival , i stayed in my parents house on the hillside .
everything seemed smaller , older and simpler than i had remembered it to be .
one morning , shortly after i had returned home , i walked down to the small harbour and sat in the old place by the sea wall , as i had done so often , many years before .
i waited , expecting to see the familiar form of old eric ambling down the quay , but the sailor never came .
i went to the waters edge where the fishermen were working on the boats .
wheres old eric ?
i asked .
the first fisherman looked at me suspiciously .
who ?
he replied .
another , older man , looked up and took the pipe from between his teeth .
you wont find old eric here , young man , he said .
not these five years past .
i understood that he had died .
i felt saddened by the news and i returned to the bench where the old salt used to sit and watch the scene .
while i was sitting by the harbour wall , a man did approach .
at first , i did not recognise him .
he stood before me and smiled .
it was finder .
he seemed much older than the memory i carried of him and he also appeared tired and worn .
he sat beside me and we looked out across the sea for a while , in silence .
harry , a long time has passed , but its good to see you back .
you are well ?
yes , i replied .
i ...
but i could not find anything to say .
the time will come soon , when i must leave , he said .
but before i go , i need to know your answer .
we have waited patiently for many years and the old order is passing away .
the lords of the double cross have served their time here .
the world is changing and there is no need for us to remain .
the white crystal is already old and its power is passing .
but the secret of the source needs a keeper until the end , when it will fall into history .
i had never replied to the request of the lords of the double cross , or the council of the elders , because i felt something was missing .
the passing years had told me what it was .
i turned and looked at finder i will do it , i said , and gladly .
i will stay on this island , now , for the rest of my life , i have no need to stray again .
your condition will be met .
but in my turn , i make just one request of you .
if i am not to leave the island ever again , i still wish to see crystal , if she is willing , one more time .
can you ask her to visit me here and let me know her reply ?
finder assented and seemed immediately brighter and less weary .
one month later he returned again and we met at the same place as before , but this time there were three of us and crystal seemed radiant and delighted .
she , too , had changed but i knew , before we spoke , by the feeling inside me , that we had a special place in each others hearts .
i could tell by the laugh in her eyes and the warmth of her voice that she shared my thought .
we stood facing each other on the quay while finder looked on .
chrissy , i said simply , hardly believing she was real , i wanted to give you this .
ive kept it with me all these years , just to tell me it was true ... what we did .
i pressed the small fish brooch into her palm .
oh !
harry !
of course it was true .
you knew i would come , didnt you ?
you didnt think i would let you down ?
and she took out the small coin .
i always keep it with me .
no , it is i who let you down .
i hoped you would come , i replied .
but i was scared we may have changed .
that is why i never tried to find you .
i didnt want to break the magic spell of my memories .
it seemed too good to be true .
do you forgive me ?
silly harry !
she said as she looked at me with liquid eyes .
listen , i remember too ... and she sang , her womans voice more beautiful than the girls before it .
new beginnings , old friends , the parting of many ways , yet love and friendship never ends while memories fill the days .
but now i am here , we are together and the spell is not broken , it is renewed .
despite my fears , time had worked for us .
i had always thought that time would move us apart but , somehow , it had moved us together .
the years had been good to chrissy she was a beautiful woman , confident , strong and clever .
i took her hand and we hugged each other .
we three companions of old shared a day of walking and stories .
chrissy and i found we could speak without talking .
something deep inside us was shared , our two hearts were indeed as one .
chrissy stayed for a week at the old inn , there being no room in our small house , and every day we spent time exploring the island and our memories .
finder remained with us that week and we set a date for the small ceremony of investiture into the order .
chrissy left with finder and it was to be a long time before we all met again .
the six lords of the double cross and i gathered one early morning , high on sgurr cavan , at the temple of the wind .
there , i became the white lord and guardian of the white crystal .
the council of the elders had determined that the only solution to the safe keeping of the future was to give the task of holding the secret to the one person they knew already possessed it , and understood that it was a thing of beauty , not of power .
so it was that the white lord changed from the wizard and charlatan , the necromancer and magician , to an ordinary man .
at that time , the order changed forever and the council of the elders fell back into memory .
with the passing of mystery the strength of eight was broken .
reason had taken over .
the six were only seen together on one other occasion on the island of suidhe .
alone after the investiture , i climbed over sgurr cavan and scrambled down to the cave entrance that led to the chamber of light that i had seen with frank so many years before .
but a mass of fallen rock barred the entrance to the chamber .
the roof had collapsed , probably in the earthquake ten years before , and the white crystals were sealed below the earth where they would never be found .
there were only two white crystals still left with any power and they were with chrissy and me and their power was ours together .
i felt happy and yet sad that such a magical but dangerous place had been destroyed .
i walked down from the hill with a lighter heart than i had carried on the upward journey .
i have never left this island since that day and i do not believe that i ever shall .
i am content to stay here .
one other event in my life comes from the old story .
one year after returning to the island i welcomed a friend to stay .
it was chrissy , and now she lives here with me .
the day of her return to the island is one i shall never forget .
i had proposed marriage to her , on the last day of her first visit , a year earlier .
she accepted , on condition that she would complete the work that she had started on the farm .
she had told me that when all was ready , her parents would retire and she would pass the management of the farm over to a co operative of other farmers that had started in the area .
during that year , we wrote to each other every week but never saw one another .
my father retired and he and my mother went to live in a small cottage by the harbour .
i remained in the house and i became the teacher for our small community , just as my father had done before me .
the ferry docked on the day appointed for the marriage .
it was my twenty seventh birthday .
i stayed in the house on the hill while my father greeted chrissy and the other guests who had arrived .
i looked out of the window and saw many people walking up the street and i went into the chapel to welcome the guests .
chrissys mother and father were the first to enter .
we had never met before and i greeted them warmly .
their fellow farmers from the co operative followed them .
the men each brought with them their families , all dressed in fine clothes .
they were an imposing group and yet i felt there was some strange familiarity about the men .
they all greeted me like an old friend but i did not recognise any of their names .
the next to enter was my old friend frank , who had returned to be best man .
although we had rarely met in the intervening years , we had remained faithful friends .
my own family , very few , entered .
my mother looked proud but my fathers feelings remained hidden , as usual .
there followed a number of islanders and friends from oldford and newbridge until the small chapel was almost full .
i took my place in front of the altar to await chrissy .
there was a moment of silence and the doors opened again .
everyone glanced behind .
but it was not chrissy .
the final two parties i had not expected .
a group of six old , white haired men processed through the door .
the first was the master of the council of the elders .
everyone in the chapel became hushed as he entered .
something in his manner required reverence .
the five elderly men followed him slowly .
they took their places in silence .
in the final party were the six lords of the double cross .
they entered , dressed in fine clothes , each in his special colour .
they carried their gold swords in the scabbards at their sides .
they looked like noble lords from ancient times and the congregation greeted them with gasps .
the gold lord led their procession .
they stood three each side of the entrance and held their swords aloft in the form of a ceremonial arch .
in the silence that followed , chrissy , radiant and beautiful , walked slowly beneath the swords and up the aisle .
after the service , there followed a wedding feast , which we held in the old hall at the cleve .
the butler , who had grown very old , opened the door to the party .
my father and i had cleaned and decorated the grey and dusty room for the occasion .
my friends prepared a great feast , which they spread on the tables , and a band played on the balcony .
the guests ate and danced until the night became morning .
long before the final dance had ended , chrissy and i made our farewells to those we knew would never return .
we said good bye to the council of the elders they were strangers even then .
we thanked the lords of the double cross , each of whom had given a generous gift .
we were sad indeed , as we turned last of all to finder .
we will go now , he said , and we will not return , for our time here is over .
but yours has just begun .
the past is our land but the future belongs to you , whom we leave and love so dearly .
he took chrissys hand and kissed it gently , then he shook my own and finally he turned to join the others as they left us for the last time .
we watched them go it was a bittersweet moment .
a little later , we took leave of the party and bade them enjoy themselves .
we left the cleve , amidst much noise and gaiety .
the revellers , particularly , i noticed , the farmers , celebrated the moment .
we walked out into the night and i brought home my bride .
so it came to pass that the two white crystals returned to the island and were united again .
in the years that have passed we have grown to be content .
the passage of time has not much affected us and the island remains a haven for peace and a refuge from the modern world .
we live here happily now and , above me , in my old bedroom , sleeps my son .
i sometimes wonder what he will find in the big city .
i have never left the island and somehow i know i never will .
i will keep the promise i made without difficulty .
i hear much from those i meet and they tell me about the world outside that is enough .
they say the big city over the water is ever changing .
the river , once hidden , runs proudly through the city dividing it and joining it .
the people have built twelve beautiful bridges across the waters .
the river has trees lining its length and gardens that dip into the waters on either side .
the people go there to relax and be friends with each other and the ducks , geese and swans that now live there happily .
boats glide under the bridges and barges sail through to the docks carrying cargoes of produce from the heartland farms .
the river also supplies the city with drinking water and even in the driest of weather there is enough for all .
today , the big city is famous for its beautiful river and elegant bridges .
of course , it is still a busy place and full of people , cars and commerce , but somehow , it is a little better now than it was before .
the identity of the farmers did not remain a mystery to me for long .
the big city gang had gone , but i will never forget it .
the farmers and their families are all known to me now .
they have told me of their lives in the country and how they helped chrissy to rebuild her fathers farm .
tuffy had come alone to the house the day after the wedding and asked to see chrissy .
she pressed my hand and went out with him to walk briefly .
i had known from the early days of our adventure that tuffy was a suitor for chrissys hand .
it weighed heavily on my mind when i realised that for the last ten years they had seen each other almost every day .
my respect for tuffy grew from that knowledge and i felt sad as the years passed and he never took a wife .
the dam in the snowy mountains remains broken a symbol of a hopeless past and of the power that exists in this old earth .
the big city does not need it any longer .
the river runs its natural course through the farms of the heartland , although it is not the same as before and some folks still look back to the old times before the dam .
the farms are bigger now , but less isolated they have new roads and cars .
the river is the central feature of the heartland and it attracts many tourists , who cruise up and down the old canal , now restored .
many people stay on the farms in the summer or camp in the foothills of the snowy mountains .
the place that used to be erebos has become a holiday resort .
there is a large lake that has formed in the grounds of the old house and , bubbling to the surface in the centre , is the famous hot spring of elysium .
settlers built a small town with hotels and camping sites on the lake shore .
now people go there to take the waters .
people invented legends telling of the old man , who lived in the submerged house beneath the lake , and of the mystical caverns below .
of course , no one really believes the tales they are already legends .
the snowy mountains remain unchanged .
the wild rocky peaks are still home to eagles .
wolves can sometimes be heard to cry out on moonlit nights .
the shepherds still graze their flocks on the higher pastures during the brief summer months , but there are fewer shepherds than before .
a few hardy walkers and climbers spend time in the mountains during the summer , but the essence of the place remains the same .
there have been no more earthquakes rumbling and rattling the great stone hills .
the great quake , as it became known , seems to have stabilised the region .
on the island of suidhe , life continues as it always has done .
few new people come to live here .
the sea crossing is a protection for the place .
many visitors come here in the summer months but rarely find the heart of the island .
they come to look at the quaint little towns and to lie on the beaches .
they come to escape , not to stay .
there are still fishermen who sail out in their boats from the harbour each day .
the one ferry still plies the waters , to and fro , but the city folk find it hard to live without cars or television or daily papers .
we have none of those things here .
it is the lack of those man made and ephemeral things that make this island a special place to those who live here , although not all the islanders realise it .
now i stand by my window in the night and watch across the waves to where the lights of the big city are sparkling on the waters , hovering like tiny insects in the night sky .
i look at them , and somehow see beyond them , into the dim distance of time .
i feel the icy , cool breeze blow over the sea from the snowy mountains .
i know that somewhere , deep below the lake at elysium , there lies the remains of dr. wolfe , for he was never found after the earthquake .
molten rock and falling stone had sealed all the passages leading to the old mines .
i sometimes think about the past , but it has taken on the quality of a dream now and seems to cross the boundaries of invention and reality .
i do not know where the future will lead us either , for although i may find the past , i am no longer permitted to witness the future , as i once did with chrissy .
so the years pass by and my own son grows .
he is barely a child and not quite a man .
i think of him in his room .
i walk to the window .
as i stand and watch the skies , a singular distant light , barely perceptible , traces an arc through the heavens .
it is a comet , perhaps i can not tell .
although i see it now , i know that it has already passed a very long time ago while , since then , the light has been crossing the vast empty distance from there to here .
i see it , but it isnt there it is a traveller in space and in time .
i watch it a moment longer and from it i understand a little more .
i leave the open window and sit at my desk to pick up my pen again to write ... ... now , as i sit in my room and look out through the dark window , i can see across to the mainland and the big city .
the lights of the city shine and twinkle on the horizon like a distant fairground floating on a sea of black .
later , i put down my pen and turn out the light .
it is very late i have been writing half the night .
i go to the window and look out at the first light of the approaching dawn .
it is too late to sleep tonight and so i put on my coat and take the old broad brimmed hat from the peg .
i walk to the cliffs above the harbour .
there , by the cleve , i stand and watch the endless motion of the sea .
each wave is different and yet somehow the same .
i see a small shadow figure moving on the harbour wall and i feel a cold shiver pass through me .
if i go home now , what will i find ?
upstairs , in my old room , will the window be open and the bed be empty ?
is the white crystal travelling and will the lords of the double cross soon be gathering ?
i sit , unable to move for a moment , and in my minds eye i seem to see , far away beneath the snowy mountains , the wizened face of a strange , white haired old man , looking out into the night from a castle tower and waiting ...
but i gather myself together and walk back home .
i climb the stairs and open the door to my old room , where i find my son still peacefully sleeping .
epilogue white light is reflected high in the skies , invading this earthly space .
the comet that landed endures in the eyes captured by one of our race .
remember the time you looked in the stone , still fire with a heart of ice ?
that truth is together and lives here for ever light in the night of your eyes .
the end .
dear reader , thank you for reading my book .
i hope you enjoyed reading it as much i enjoyed writing it .
it was written for you .
i am always delighted to receive any feedback , messages , criticisms or thoughts , so please do send me something at this email link .
i have a brief web site at www.exoddy.co.uk where any new information on future work will be posted .
alternatively , you can write to me at the following address exoddy books , po box 1206 , guildford , gu1 9rh united kingdom .
www.exoddy.co.uk this story is dedicated to my son for whom it was originally written .
best wishes stephen morley link to table of contents also by stephen morley moses trod it was the hills that made him ... so begins a drama of contrasts where the characters from two generations intertwine through the life of mark hunter , a child of the second world war whose life takes him from his native cumberland to the city of london encountering music , wealth , women , good times and bad as he struggles to come to terms with his life , his love and so leave the world a better place than he found it .
mark is helped on his way through the decades by fellow musicians , business men and bankers , but it is the next generation , the twin daughters of his business partner , and his own estranged family , that hold the keys to understanding his world .
beneath this fast flowing story lies moses , a tramp who wanders the streets and hills weaving together the threads of an unfolding drama that brings together the art of beauty , madness , truth , lies , greed and humility in a rich picture of a society that is forever changing and populated by characters searching for an idyll that proves as elusive as it is compulsive .
finally , mark returns to the hills that made him .
available in ebook and paperback editions .
billy palmer published by ron zastre at smashwords copyright 2002 ron zastre this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be resold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
prelude vietnam was a frustrating experience for america .
she got herself into a far off war that ate up her young men and woman for no apparent gains or motive .
sick of the carnage , americans went looking for a scapegoat , and in many cases the same soldiers that were fighting and dying were singled out .
chapter 1 low dark clouds raced across the sky driven by a bone chilling wind , accentuating the cold dreary day .
the raw wind moaned through the branches of the bare trees , tumbling the last of the fallen leaves along the ground .
with its lonesome call , a crow hidden among the big trees in the back of the old cemetery added to the somber mood .
toward the front , a small gathering of people stood around an open grave , the cold wind pulling at their warm clothing .
the crows persistent calling caught the attention of one of the group , a fiftyish looking man in a long gray overcoat , his head bare .
he turned his head in the direction of the birds call looking deep into the gloomy , old graveyard .
im glad this isnt way back there , his thought paused , its depressing enough out here .
he looked up to the sky and sighed .
winters coming , i can smell the snow .
he just barely registered what the minister was saying , something about ashes to dust .
jesus , what a hell of a place to end up .
we goofed around in here for years , and now hes going to be here forever .
the man shuddered at the irony .
the parson closed the book and nodded to the two men standing back from the official proceedings .
shovels in their hands , they moved forward to the open grave , as the cleric turned and walked away .
the two men began shoveling dirt into the grave .
the sound of the dirt hitting the casket made the man in the overcoat turn from the sound of the crow and stare at the open grave .
the man shuddered again and pulled his arms tight to his side , trying to keep the cold dreariness away from his body .
there was a pretty blond woman at his side , her arm through his .
she leaned closer and rested her head on his shoulder , looking up into his face , honey , its cold , lets go , the woman said .
the man was silent , a tear forming at the corner of one of his eyes .
honey , the woman said again , im getting really cold .
she pulled tighter to the man and shivered .
the man slowly looked down to her and spoke .
what happened here ?
why did it end this way ?
manny , let it go .
he just didnt fit in , the woman said .
why ?
something cause that ?
what happened ?
manny said his voice choking .
i remember when we were kids we were all such good friends .
stop it !
the woman interrupted .
cassey , dont you see ?
we were a part of this .
manny pointed to the grave .
i dont see anything , except were standing out in the freezing cold , and youre trying to find someone to blame for billy being dead , cassey said annoyed , and you know what ?
it had nothing to do with either of us .
billy had the opportunities and he didnt take them .
if its anyones fault , its his , so dont even think of trying to hang it on me .
im sure he loved you all his life .
he never forgot losing you .
for christ sakes manny , that was years ago .
we were kids .
you and i have been together a hell of a lot longer , worked through many issues , and made a family .
billy and i had a relationship that was based on the back seat of an old car .
why didnt he ever find someone else then ?
i dont know !
casseys raised voice caused the minister to turn and look , but the two men filling the grave didnt , like this sort of thing accompanied all burials .
maybe he did , and we just never knew about it , she added quietly .
doesnt it seem strange to you ?
manny asked .
when we were kids , we were such an important part of each others lives .
now , all of a sudden , were standing here and thirty years has gone by , and we know nothing about billy or who he became .
look , he was the one that left to go to that silly , fucked up war .
he left , and i turned to you .
to you manny .
yeah , i loved him , and to tell you the truth i didnt like seeing him lowered into the ground just now because he never did anything bad to me , he just left .
i went on with my life , and he went on with his .
its not my fault that his didnt turn out so hot .
whose fault was it ?
thats what i cant get out of my mind , manny said with great sadness surrounding his person .
manny was a handsome man , distinguish looking , well dressed , but the sad look on his face made him look old , beaten .
christ , ive never seen you look like this before .
what is wrong with you ?
cassey asked concerned , looking into mannys eyes .
youve been to funerals before dont let this one get to you .
ive never felt responsible before .
death happens , but i cant get over feeling it was my fault this time , somehow ?
why does it have to be anyones fault ?
cassey returned .
life is life , and now hes dead , thats it , boo who !
boo who , thats all you can come up with ?
thats your rational something happened to billy ?
i dont know if it was the war , or after , but he wasnt the same ?
it was probably all the drugs , cassey countered .
shit , those guys pickled their brains .
not that i blame them .
it was screwed up , and they knew it .
i probably would have done the same thing , you too by the way .
he wasnt messed up on drugs .
how can you say that ?
when he got back , we had the pot .
billy said he heard about it over there , but never tried it .
shit , the first time he ever smoked any was with art jensen and me .
im fairly sure that the drug thing in vietnam was after billys time .
i dont know manny because i didnt have much to do with billy after he came back , remember ?
i was with you .
you were the one that didnt want me associating with him .
you were jealous , and if anybody was responsible for him feeling left out , it was you .
you were the one that shunned him , you and his old buddies .
he goes to war , you guys dont .
he comes back and you guys treat him like he doesnt belong anymore , and youve got the nerve to point the finger at me .
we were wrong , terribly wrong , and im just starting to realize it .
i think he was a hero in that war , manny countered .
hard to tell , i never heard much about what he did , or what happened , cassey said .
manny turned and looked again to the rear of the old cemetery , wondering why the crow had quit calling .
he saw the rows of tombstones marching beneath the trees that got progressively older and larger as they recede into the gloomy depths , and felt a terrible sadness .
he never said much , i dont think anyone ever knew .
his brother said he was a sniper or something like that , cassey said quietly .
manny made a sound of disgust .
the golden haired boy , notice hes not here today .
they moved a long time ago , maybe they dont know ?
the family is always notified , manny said .
they never really cared one way or the other .
i guess billy was the black sheep .
i never told you about the time he saved me out hunting , did i ?
billy saved my life .
billy saved you , when was this ?
cassey looked up into mannys face , concerned .
manny started laughing .
billy saved me from a deranged rabbit .
oh come on ?
cassey exclaimed , a look of doubt on her face .
ever since youve gone gaga over this guilt thing you dont make much sense .
how could a rabbit hurt you ?
we were hunting rabbits in that old black pickup we used to fool around in .
billy was driving and i was in the back .
we put sand in the bed so we could get footing and then chase jack rabbits .
one guy would drive and everybody else would stand in the bed and shoot .
one night it was just billy and me , and he was driving .
i wounded this rabbit , and when we stopped , it ran under the truck .
i jumped out and was looking under the truck , and the damn thing came out after me , hissing and hopping on its hind legs right at me .
i tried to shoot it , but the gun was empty .
i panicked and threw the gun at the rabbit and took off running with the damn thing after me .
the rabbit chased you ?
cassey chuckled .
you ran from a rabbit ?
how courageous .
damn right , it was wounded and really pissed .
i told you , it was hissing at me .
id never heard anything like that before and it scared the shit out of me .
i was running and the damn thing was right on my heels .
a killer rabbit huh ?
geez manny , you come up with some good ones , you really do ill give you credit for that .
im not shitting you cassey , that thing was hopping on its hind legs , hissing and right on my ass .
i can remember thinking , feet dont fail me now .
i was running and dogging like hell with that crazy rabbit right on my butt .
anyway , billy ran after us and shot the rabbit on the dead run with my bow .
i pissed my pants from laughing .
you sure you didnt piss them from being scared ?
youre not kidding me about this ?
probably that too , but it really happened .
im not pulling your leg .
a rabbit couldnt hurt you , cassey snickered .
i wasnt so sure at the time .
that thing could have bit the shit out of me if billy hadnt shot it .
he saved you from a killer rabbit and that makes him a hero ?
he reacted immediately !
manny exclaimed .
how do you know , it could have been rabid or something ?
it was just the way billy was .
he was always there when you really needed him , wasnt he ?
no , he wasnt !
what do you mean ?
i needed him , and he wandered off to some silly war , and i ended up falling in love with you while he was gone ive never heard you say that before .
you went with me to get even with him for leaving you ?
not to get even .
i was lonely and you were persistent .
i was second best ?
we were kids back then , remember .
ive given all my best to you .
we are what is important , not some guy way back , whenever .
but , dont you see ?
he was important to you , as im sure you were to him and he lost that , manny lamented .
if i was so goddamn important he would have stayed with me , but he went off to the great adventure .
come on , its getting cold , we can talk about this in the car .
manny and cassey walked back toward the car .
why are you so intense about all this now ?
cassey asked .
donny , manny responded .
cassey stopped and held manny tighter .
do you think theyll send him somewhere dangerous ?
i dont know ?
i hope not .
i dont want the same thing to happen to him .
oh manny , dont even say that , cassey said with a shudder .
the country learned its lesson and is different now .
i pray our son is not expendable , like those guys in vietnam were .
its funny you should say that .
i mean , billy did his duty and got nothing for it .
so now we hope that cant happen again because we have a son that might be doing the same thing .
does billys life mean any less , or are we overlooking the fact that what happened to those vietnam guys did teach us a lesson and we are just now realizing it because now we have something to lose ?
what about what they lost ?
manny asked .
it was a long time ago and theres nothing you can do about it now , cassey said .
but maybe it was my fault .
manny , for christ sakes , you had nothing to do with his messed up life .
but i think i did , manny moaned , stopping , turning cassey , making her look at him .
how is any of this your fault ?
she asked .
andy mcpherson and bueler , manny said , a tone of disgust in his voice .
how do those two bozos figure into this ?
the fight , the one that got billy put in jail for six months .
he beat the hell out of bueler , he deserved it .
it was all a lie cassey , manny said quietly , his head down .
theyre the ones that started the whole thing .
that goddamn andy was jealous of billy .
andy was fighting the draft and billy was all done with that shit .
billy was back and those guys were scared shitless about going .
you never told me this manny .
you mean billy got sent to jail , and it wasnt his fault ?
cassey asked incredulously .
yeah , we were out drinking beer and vietnam came up .
andy was ragging on billy for some war stories , but billy wouldnt say anything about it .
andy started popping off about billy not saying anything , saying he was a coward didnt do anything in the war and all that .
anyway , andy said that he wasnt afraid , that hed go and kick some gook ass .
billy kind of laughed and told him that he would never make it , that he didnt have what it took to stay alive .
andy got real pissed and billy tried to calm him down .
billy said that it was all bullshit and that anyone that went was stupid , because the war was all political and had nothing to do with fighting communism , and to stay the hell away from it .
andy was drunk and wouldnt shut up .
anyway you know that dumb fuck bueler , hed do anything to impress andy , so he blindsided billy and thats how it started .
billy didnt have the club , bueler did .
oh shit manny , why didnt you say something ?
cassey asked , grabbing mannys arm and stopping him .
i , i didnt think it was that serious .
christ , it was over in a second and bueler wasnt hurt that bad , just a seriously screwed up nose bleed .
andy wouldnt let it go , and next thing we know were talking to the sheriff and that rube was always trying to impress andys dad .
when it got to court , i was afraid to speak up because i didnt want to lose my job .
andy told me if i told the truth his dad would fire me .
i heard the trial was kind of nasty ?
im glad i didnt go , cassey said .
im glad you didnt either .
it was a railroad .
that fuckin lawyer , the prosecutor , really pulled some nasty shit on billy .
he made billy admit to killing people and all that .
old man mcpherson sat there with a smug grin on his face eating it up .
he told me that nobody messes with a mcpherson and gets away with it .
money talks .
billy had a lawyer , added cassey .
andrews ?
that shit for brains !
he was sucking up to the mcphersons , still is .
he knows where his bread is buttered .
i cant remember it that well , but i know that he didnt do much lawyering for billy , kind of left him out to dry .
i think that was the point of no return for billy .
i didnt see him much after that , after he got out .
he didnt smile anymore , and was so elusive and then he just disappeared .
that must have been the shits , sitting in jail for something he didnt do ?
cassey said , sadly .
i never did like andy or bueler .
cassey looked at manny .
so what are you going to do ?
find out about billy .
oh shit manny , what the hell is there to find ?
so he might have got dumped on , so what ?
were so intent on glorifying our present heroes , a firefighter stubs his toe and the next morning hes on the today show .
dont get me wrong , we need to give credit where credit is due , but we might owe some of those guys like billy .
its not going to do billy a hell of a lot of good now .
i know , but this is something i feel like i need to do .
what if you find something that doesnt make billy look too good ?
you could make it worse you know , cassey said .
i know that he was a great guy before he went to war .
if there is anything bad , it would have to be after , and i want to know why ?
manny stated .
how do you propose doing all this ?
the business runs itself , and i need to find something else to do .
ive got good people and ive been thinking of taking some time off for quite a while now .
ive never seen much of the country , like i promised myself , and heres a good excuse to do it .
sounds like a mid life crisis to me .
arent all men supposed to have them ?
apparently !
well , dont you think this is better than trying a younger woman ?
a younger woman would be an end of life crisis , mr !
see , im doing the right thing , manny said , as he opened the passenger car door for cassey .
shit , i hate this place when it starts this crap , manny said , looking out the front windshield , as it started to snow .
especially this early , he gloomily added as they drove though the large stone and iron gates , leaving the cemetery .
cant take another winter , huh ?
of course , i hear the same gripe year after year , just about this time .
i can not figure out what you like about winter ?
manny commented , looking over at cassey with a disgusted look on his face .
its peaceful , laid back , manny .
it smells so clean .
if you would just learn to enjoy the solitude .
you got that right , nothing to do and nowhere to go , solitary confinement .
manny moved forward in his seat , resting his arms and chin on the steering wheel , peering over , looking intently out through the windshield .
look at that , its getting heavier .
oh , chill out !
just think the seasons are coming .
turkey day , christmas , your birthday , cassey chuckled .
had to spoil it didnt you .
cant do much about getting older .
its not the getting older part .
its just such a lousy time of the year to have to celebrate anything .
tell you what sport , we can switch .
you can have my birthday .
how does that make you feel ?
actually , better .
good , because i wasnt planning on using it anymore because i am concerned about becoming an old bag .
ah , old girl , ill never rub your nose in it .
thanks manny , cassey said sarcastically .
how are you going to go about this billy palmer thing ?
you are serious ?
yes , im serious , but i dont have any idea how to do it ?
well , you read enough detective mysteries , how do they solve the unknown ?
lately with computers , but you know my expertise in that area .
maybe its time to learn ?
doesnt it ever bother you that youre the only one still fumbling around in the stone age ?
hey , i do okay without them .
manny , your business might be in someone elses name by now , for all you know .
i know , i know , its just so degrading to be so pitifully inept , when everyone else just cruises along on those damn things .
manny i told you i know , i know , theyre so easy these days , manny sighed and sat back in the seat as it began to snow heavier .
i guess its a good time to learn .
thata boy !
before you know it youll not be looking like a simpleton anymore .
you sure love to pick on me .
thats why i married you , and stuck around for so long sweetie .
theres always something to do .
we used to have some good times in winter , when we were kids .
everything was much easier then , cassey responded .
were you there the time we set the trap for wyscouski ?
it was our porch he bled all over , remember ?
oh , thats right .
did your dad ever figure out what happened , who did it ?
oh , god no !
he would have grounded me .
id probably still be locked in my room .
was it you or billy that put the rope across the gate ?
no , it was weathers , but billy and i iced down the sidewalk .
god , you guys darn near killed him .
he had black eyes for a month .
i was really scared .
you were scared .
what the hell do you think wyscouski would have done to us if he had figured it out ?
you and i probably wouldnt be having this conversation .
that , my dear , is a true story .
he laughed about it though , when i confessed years later .
yeah , he turned out to be a pretty good guy .
he sure was a mean s.o.b .
when he was young .
why did you bring him up ?
cassey asked .
vietnam , it settled wyscouski down .
you said it , he was really mean when we were kids , but after he got back from vietnam he mellowed out .
all he was ever interested in after that was playing golf .
well , see , youre trying to fit the blame for billy , and theres an example quite the opposite .
not really , i never said the war hurt billy .
i said it was what happened after he got back .
wyscouski was a different story all together .
shit , wyscouski has never had to work a day in his life .
he used to terrorize everyone because he was probably bored , and flying combat missions took the edge off him .
he said he kissed the ground every time he got back safely .
i wonder if he has any thoughts on billy ?
he must be gone for the winter by now youll have to go someplace warm to talk to that guy .
thats right , ill have to , manny said , suddenly cheering up .
jesus , look at it snowing .
i still cant figure out what you like about this shit ?
isnt it pretty ?
hell no , its depressing .
the cold , the snow , or the fact that the golf course is closed for a few months .
all of it babe , all of it !
besides , you should be proud of me because im evolving , manny stated .
oh this ive got to hear , cassey snickered .
seriously , ive moved on to a more reptilian phase .
i need to lay out on a flat rock in the sun for a while , before im worth a shit .
the comment made cassey burst out in laughter .
im going to call andrews , manny added .
what do you expect to accomplish there ?
cassey asked , still laughing .
i dont know , but he didnt represent billy properly .
i guess its as good a place to start as any .
ill bet he never got over you guys stripping him and tying him up on my front porch , then ringing the doorbell .
i know my mother never did .
you guys were so mean to him .
thats because he was always cheating at everything , especially golf .
he just wanted to keep up with you guys .
i dont remember him being too good at anything .
he wasnt , especially cheating .
chapter 2 manny was sitting on a receptionists couch , his hair and overcoat damp , forlornly looking out the window .
the window was on a floor high enough so that only the very top of the tree next to the building was visible .
he was watching the snow swirl around outside , almost obliterating the tree , some of it sticking to the glass and then melting , god i hate winter , he mumbled to himself , just as the secretary announced that he could go into the office .
its been snowing for five days , he grumbled , walking past her .
yes , isnt it pretty , she responded , trying to ruin his melancholy mood .
im not going for it , these winter weenies will never break me , he vowed to himself as he entered the office .
andrews , hows it going , manny asked , extending his hand to the man getting up from behind the desk .
not bad manny , andrews returned taking mannys hand , and you ?
oh , okay , manny said , sitting in the chair by the desk .
he could see the snow through the window over andrewss shoulder .
no complaints , manny lied .
what can i do for you ?
andrews asked .
i was wondering what id have to do to get the transcripts of the billy palmer trial , the one where you represented him .
that was thirty years ago , what the heck you interested in him for ?
he made his own problems you know .
is that what you thought of him when you represented him ?
manny asked quickly .
i did my best for him , andrews said defensively .
did you , or were you jaded , or even influenced back then ?
say what you mean , manny .
i dont remember the trial going billys way .
i dont think the truth came out , manny said , sitting back .
those vietnam vets , probably all fucked up on drugs , whining and crying all the time .
they lost the war and then tried to blame everybody else , andrews lectured .
i never heard him complain .
why the interest now ?
andrews asked .
i just got back from his funeral .
yeah , i heard he died .
he wasted his life and now you want to blame somebody .
dont come looking to me .
i already heard that one from cassey .
im not looking to blame anyone , just curious , thats all .
shit manny , after he got back you werent exactly his friend either .
no one was .
im just wondering if we all werent a little at fault for that so called wasted life .
so just get me the transcript and bill me .
whats cassey think about all this ?
she thinks its my mid life crisis .
could be , you know ?
maybe , but i want to find out about billy , see if i can figure out what went wrong ?
maybe he went wrong , andrews stated flatly .
chapter 3 a young billy palmer , sitting in the witness chair in a crowded court room on any other day would have been a very handsome young man .
he had weathered good looks , average height and a strong , sinewy look of endurance .
his face looked troubled today , though .
his normal confident smile was gone , replaced by a look of apprehension .
a mean spirited , young attorney paced back and forth in front of billy , calculating , formulating a plan to make the ex marine look as bad as possible .
answer the question , mr. palmer .
have you ever done bodily harm to anyone ?
the prosecutor asked , pacing like a hungry animal with the scent of blood .
billy looked uncomfortable , squirming in his seat , looking to the jury , then to the judge .
mr. palmer , answer my question !
the prosecutor stopped , turning quickly , staring at billy , a look of determination on his face .
objection your honor !
carl andrews , billys lawyer stated .
this is not relevant !
goes to character your honor , the prosecutor replied quickly .
objection denied , the judge stated .
you will answer the question , she said , looking at billy .
your honor , you all know that i was in vietnam , billy answered quietly , looking for sympathy .
did you ever seriously hurt anyone ?
the prosecutor repeated .
they were trying to hurt us , billy said quietly .
did you lay in wait for these people you hurt ?
it was my job .
it was your job to cause harm to others , is that right ?
your honor , i object to this line of questioning , the defense attorney whined .
your honor , it is relevant .
it goes to show that this guys training is the reason we are here in this court room today , the prosecutor said , turning to include the jury in his deduction .
you will answer the question , mr. palmer , the judge instructed .
i was only doing my job .
then the answer is yes , you have caused bodily harm , the prosecutor accused .
billy sat not moving .
your honor , make him answer the question , the prosecutor snarled .
mr. palmer , either you answer , or i will put you in jail until you do , the judge warned .
taking a deep breathe , billy answered , yes , i see , the prosecutor trumpeted , you admit to hurting people .
have you ever killed anyone , taken it one step further ?
i suppose , billy said with a sigh .
you suppose !
you shot at people , but you dont know if you killed them !
we didnt stick around to be sure .
a real honorable bunch of guys you must have been .
shooting and then running .
there were only two of how many people did you shoot at ?
the prosecutor interrupted .
i dont know .
after the first time , did you think about what you had done ?
of course .
and ?
and what ?
what did you think , was it right , or was it wrong ?
i dont know ?
i was just glad i wasnt so scared that i screwed up .
you saw no moral issue here ?
i mean youve shot at someone , possibly killing them , and you dont see a moral dilemma involved ?
no , it was war .
how did you feel , the second time you had someone in your sights ?
judge i dont see billys attorney finally attempted to intervene .
answer the question mr. palmer !
the prosecutor shouted , ignoring the defense attorney .
i dont know , i dont remember .
you just went out and did it again ?
it was my job , billy answered calmly , tired of the inquisition so , the military convinced you it is okay to administer violence when you feel it is necessary .
what has that got to do with anything now ?
billy said , trying to defend himself .
everything mr. palmer , everything !
its the same issue !
it has to do with violent behavior .
you are a trained killer , mr. palmer , and five people , the prosecutor pointed to andy mcpherson , bueler , marsha dent and manny sitting in the front row , the witnesses to the fight , then the prosecutor pointed to the sheriff seated a short distance away , and the officer that took the complaint and investigated the incident , all agree that you are a violent person .
five nonviolent people tell me you cant control your ferocity .
take some responsibility here , mr. palmer .
you have been brainwashed into thinking that the rights of others do not matter .
thats not true , they lied !
billy yelled , starting to stand .
the bailiff immediately moved toward billy and billy quickly sat back down .
after you killed your first person , why didnt you stop , refused , done something ?
the prosecutor continued .
you cant do that .
it would have been desertion , billy said , shaking his head .
why not , the person you assaulted , beat up , refused to go kill ?
but , i didnt start it !
but you sure finished it .
i had no choice , he was no choice !
just like in the marines , is that right ?
the prosecutor had a smug , self assured look on his face because he was proud of how this was turning out .
this grandstanding is fun , im sure showing these people what i can do , he congratulated himself .
billy didnt answer .
thats just what i figured .
ladies and gentlemen of the jury .
the prosecutor turned to the jury box with a look of triumph .
this man was brainwashed into thinking that it is all right to use force , force to get his way .
thats not tru said billy , angrily .
nothing further , your honor , the prosecutor interrupted .
do you have anything to add mr. andrews ?
the judge asked .
no your honor .
the defense attorney didnt even stand .
are you sure mr. andrews ?
this is the last chance youll have to tell your clients side .
yes , your honor .
very well , the judge said , shaking her head .
okay , lets hear the final arguments .
the prosecutor walked over to the jury box and leaned on the top rail with both his hands and looked at each of the jurors respectively .
ladies and gentlemen of the jury , this trial is about the law and order that we all expect .
i have no doubt that the defendant acted out of rage and disillusionment and maybe shame .
his recent war experience is much to blame , but the law does not allow for excuses .
i feel it is necessary to not only punish this man for his ill deed , but to show him that he must change his thinking and become a member of society again .
the only way is for him to lose something and that something should be his freedom for the maximum time allotted by law .
we must make the best possible impression on him , for all our benefits .
thank you ladies and gentlemen , that is all .
the prosecutor walked back to his chair and sat down .
mr. andrews , the judge said .
the defense attorney simply stood and started to speak , not looking at anyone .
this man has suffered enough .
he has done his duty for his country and we should consider that in our judgment of him .
thank you ladies and gentlemen .
carl andrews sat down quickly .
chapter 4 so hows the computer treating you ?
cassey asked as she put her arms around manny who was sitting , working .
hey , this isnt bad , but id hate to tackle it on my own , though .
thanks for all the help .
wouldnt want you doing something heinous to it , out of frustration , would we ?
now cassey , ive matured .
oh , what happened to the driver i got you for christmas ?
that damn thing couldnt find a fairway to save its ass so it got lost in the woods .
but this is different , ive got you .
so , whatcha got so far ?
i found a guy that served with billy and called him today .
he said he was billys team partner .
hes a publisher in new york , and ive made arrangements to meet with him next week .
cant do it over the phone ?
i could , but this guy sounds interesting and he was the one that suggested we meet in person .
he was really sorry to hear about billy .
he said billy was quite the marine .
did you read that court transcript i got ?
i did .
it seemed awfully mean , what they did .
was it fair ?
no , not in the least , but thats just my opinion .
im meeting with amanda pierce , the judge , tomorrow .
be interesting about what she has to say after all these years .
i also found billys sister in san antonio .
that should be a warm one .
youre planning this according to the warm spots ?
i said i was going to new york , manny said defensively .
why are you in such a hurry ?
oh , you know what its like trying to get anything done from thanksgiving to new years .
well , people like the holidays , gives them a chance to reflect .
contemplating going into debt sounds like a good reason to celebrate .
i called the prosecutor , senator butt head too , think ill get a call back .
nah , im fairly sure hes never liked you .
just because i didnt vote for him ?
manny , you pushed him into the girls bathroom .
he had to go all the way through to get out , remember .
the doors only worked one way .
well , hold a grudge .
grudge , im surprised he didnt go blind , cassey laughed .
did old miss akers really open the stall with her drawers down ?
yes , she did .
damn , i didnt really dislike him that much , poor guy .
and you wonder why he doesnt forget .
chapter 5 manny cursed under his breath as he opened the door of his snow covered car to get out .
some snow from the roof of the car fell down his neck as he exited the car .
son of a manny cursed under his breath , trying to extract the cold wet snow with his hand , but simply pushing it farther down his back .
he stepped out of the car onto the icy parking lot and his feet started to slide out from under him when he tried to stand .
he grabbed the door of the car to keep from falling .
after he stabilized himself , he slammed the car door in disgust .
he looked up into the slate gray sky .
the snowflakes seemed to be getting bigger and more abundant .
manny hunkered down into the large collar of his overcoat , set his sights on the coffee shop front door , and set out .
it was a combination duck walk and town drunk shuffle he used to get to the door on the treacherous surface .
once inside the door , manny looked around , spotting the person he was there to meet .
amanda , nice to see you , thanks for coming down on this lovely day , manny said as he turned his head to indicate outside , a contemptuous look on his face .
hows it feel , not deciding peoples fates anymore , he asked as he struggled out of his coat .
kind of boring , but lucky for you because ive thrown the book at guys that looked as bad as you did getting to the door .
but judge , my only crime is not having claws , manny laughed .
me neither , amanda returned the laugh , i never minded winter as long as i was busy , but now im not so sure .
im moving as soon as i tie up the last of the loose ends .
im going to try a different climate .
no kidding ?
is that for my benefit ?
i mean the rub to make me jealous ?
manny turned to look out the window and sighed .
i cant believe its been snowing for six days straight .
manny , its minnesota , and its november , what else would you expect ?
you sound like cassey , except she loves this shit .
i used to too , but since im retired my thinking has changed .
im going to try the tropical life style .
big switch , but what if youre jaded to incredibly decent weather ?
i can always come back .
where you going , if you dont mind me asking ?
i think ill try the grand caymans .
really ?
retired judge slinks off to her secret tax haven , huh ?
is this something i should pass on , or keep to myself ?
manny looked at amanda with a smirk .
think itll make the locals jealous ?
damn right .
i know i am .
good , i had to listen to all their sad songs for too long .
i did my thing , now let everyone wonder .
atta girl !
so manny , you sounded official over the phone .
whats on your mind ?
billy palmer .
amanda contoured her lips and crinkled her brow , her eyes getting serious .
she still had the expressional face , that timeless professional attractiveness .
she could go from incredibly compassionate and mother like to stone cold dangerous , just from the change in her face , as many found out when they stood in her court looking up at her .
billys trial was only my third one so i was pretty new .
carl andrews kind of tied my hands on that one .
he didnt give me any reasons to go soft on palmer .
i did what i thought i was being paid for .
you seem culpable about that now ?
ive always felt bad about the decision i had to make , but like i said my hands were tied .
i almost went to the funeral .
what stopped you ?
i didnt figure it would do anything for billy and just make me feel bad .
what is it you want to know about him ?
he wasnt guilty , manny stated .
so i found out later .
how come you didnt step forward at the time ?
i was selfish .
cassey was my thing then , and it worked to my advantage .
thats a big confession not many people would be willing to expose themselves so blatantly .
it may sound noble , but admitting it just makes me feel worse , manny confessed .
when did you realize billy wasnt guilty ?
i wasnt certain until years later .
i found out long after it was too late to do anything about it .
then why the guilty feelings about your decision at the time ?
you always question yourself when you can put somebody away .
its a hell of a power they give you , and billy had no criminal record before that , except some cannon thing .
manny laughed .
i never really found out what it was about , amanda continued , and he was never in any trouble after that .
when you sentence somebody , its kind of a justification to see them again .
you know , reinforcement because i was right about so and so the first time because here they are again .
i never saw billy again , and never heard a bad thing about him after that either .
gets you wondering .
didnt you wonder about the lousy defense he got ?
oh sure , i wouldnt hire carl andrews to represent my goldfish , but in carls defense , he realized that and got out of criminal law .
what made you give billy the sentence you did ?
the prosecutor was very good .
he convinced me billy was guilty .
but was it fair , bringing vietnam up , accusing him of being dangerous because of his war experiences ?
that had nothing to do with my decision .
i sentenced billy because i thought the jury was right , that billy had assaulted bueler and i didnt realize the truth at the time .
you said you found the truth later , how ?
marsha dent .
she got in a little trouble later and confessed to me , hoping to get my sympathy .
she was always in trouble .
she probably still is .
i got the impression she had an interest in billy and he snubbed her .
anything to that ?
i suppose so , but she threw herself at any available guy .
i know billy never had any interest in her .
so you think thats why she never came forward ?
hard to say , but she wasnt the only one that kept quiet .
amanda looked at manny , waiting to see what he had to say .
i already confessed !
manny said throwing his hands up defensively .
so you did , so you did .
so bills vietnam thing had nothing to do with it ?
id like to think so .
anyway thats what i tell myself , but dammit , we were all sick of that bloody war and i guess a little guilty we got pulled in and lost so much .
but like i said , that prosecutor was sharp and i didnt know it at the time , politically hungry .
he was looking to his future and that trial was his spring board .
you know they call him senator now .
i know , i called him , but he wont talk to me .
does that surprise you ?
no , nobody wants to take the blame .
what blame ?
look , i can appreciate what youre trying to do right a terrible wrong .
maybe it needs to be done and i applaud you .
manny , people hate to be held accountable for things they did in the past , especially if they appeared to be right at the time .
christ we could all be permanently crippled by our guilt .
why are you so determined ?
so it doesnt happen again .
oh , you have a son in the service , am i right ?
yeah , donny , great kid .
cassey and i went to kentucky to see him last summer and met many of his fellow soldiers .
hard to believe , but a quarter of them were girls .
one was absolutely gorgeous .
i would have never figured that .
i mean , heres a heart stopper and shes running around in fatigues , playing soldier .
i asked donny how the guys treated her and he said , real careful , if you didnt want your eyes gouged out .
none of the guys could figure out how to put the hustle on her because she was so serious about the soldier thing .
ill tell you , donny and his friends are sharp , dedicated soldiers .
i dont want to see them abandoned if things get tough .
those boys in vietnam saw to that , manny .
we never thanked them because we didnt appreciate their sacrifice until much later , but we will always remember .
we know now that we can not afford to throw away our fine young men and women .
theres a great big wall in washington that sees to that .
you know , our esteemed senator fights every day for the troops .
do you think he remembers how he helped destroy one ?
maybe thats the reason he fights so hard for them now .
i sent a copy of the trial transcript to his office , i wonder if hell read it .
im not too sure how happy that will make him .
if big black cars start appearing in your life , youll know he wasnt tickled about being reminded .
did he ever find out the truth that billy wasnt guilty ?
i brought it up one time , after i knew .
and ?
and politicians have extremely thick hides .
when i mentioned the cannon incident , you laughed , amanda said .
i was away at school so i never did hear the real story .
you know anything about it ?
oh , hell yeah , i was there .
we were in our mad bomber stage , making bombs , cannons , that sort of thing , blowing stuff up .
andys next door neighbor , bruce littles dad , had that machine shop and billy and bruce got one of the guys at the shop to bore out a cannon so it would fire a big ass ball bearing .
they did all this without bruces dad knowing .
this guy that worked in the shop bought us beer because we fixed him up with gma , get more ass , a girl we went to school with .
bruce blackmailed him into making the cannon .
bruce and andy brought the cannon to bruces house , since his parents were away , and they made a wooden mount for it .
billys going , guys , this is not a residential thing .
this is not good .
lets take it out in the country , or something , etc .
billy wasnt too keen on firing it in town .
andy couldnt get the car because his sister was hogging it , and they wanted to shoot this thing off , really bad .
so they put this monstrosity in the middle of bruces back yard , poured a shit pot of black powder down the barrel , stuffed rags in , rolled the ball bearing in , rammed everything tight and pointed it at the garden shed next to the fence .
we stacked plywood left over from a porch remodel , stored behind the shed , to fire the ball bearing into .
we had four of these thick plywood sheets stacked next to each other .
andy , bruce , and i were all go on this thing , but billy was still talking no .
anyway , we light the fuse and run like hell around the side of the house , and it goes off .
kaaaboooomm !
it shook the house .
it shook houses for blocks around , busted nine windows total .
we look around the house and the backyard is full of black smoke , i mean obscured , and the cannons gone , ripped right off the mount .
it put a huge divot in bruces backyard and knocked down a whole section of fence .
andy is freaking out because he knows his mother is still home , and hes just got off being grounded for some other shit .
billy and i go running to see how far the ball bearing went into the plywood .
we pull one sheet after the other until they are all laying there with big ass , ragged holes through all of them .
theres a big hole in the side of the garden shed .
we look inside the shed , and the mower in there has no handles , just two stubs , and the shed has a hole out the other side .
we run out of the shed , and there is a big hole in the fence .
andy by this time has run home and bruce is hiding , i dont know where , so that leaves billy and me .
billy crawls between the shed and the fence and looks through the hole , and yells out , uh oh , its someplace inside andys house .
we figure its time for us to go too and we get the hell out of there .
the cannon ball stopped in the back of the sofa in andys living room .
andys mother just happened to be sitting on the sofa and got a bruised hip .
andy deigned any connection to the affair , bruce was toast cause all the evidence was there in his back yard , but the asshole that built it went to bat for the bosss son and the whole thing landed squarely on billy .
it was the talk of the town for weeks .
he was lucky andys mother wasnt hurt bad , and everyone was sort of laughing about it .
so , it wasnt too serious in every ones head , but it cost billy a pretty good chunk of change .
he had to pay for everything .
he worked that whole damn summer , just to pay it off you got away with everything ?
amanda asked .
at the time my parents were real strict , billys werent , so he took the blame .
besides , he was the one that built it .
i was clean except for going along with andy and bruce .
i did pay for all the beer that billy drank that summer though .
chapter 6 manny was back in carl andrews office , standing over the desk .
he had declined the offer to sit down .
you dumb ass , the prosecutor made him admit to shooting at people and you never cleared the air .
they were n't people , god damn it , he was shooting at the enemy .
why didnt you bring that up ?
i didnt think it was relevant .
how can you call yourself an attorney ?
you let him hang , dip shit !
he got himself into it !
and dont you come here talking to me like that !
i will not stand for it !
you hear me !
they were all lying , carl !
you talked to marsha , she was there and she told you bueler started it .
so dont bother trying to protect your integrity .
not with me , not now !
what about you manny ?
you knew what happened , and you didnt say anything .
i was not hired to defend him and i certainly didnt take an oath to protect him .
that would be you , carl .
it was no big deal , the judge only gave him six months .
for something he didnt do .
if he was so tough , he should have handled it .
you know , life doesnt always hand us a dream world .
no , not all of us , thats for sure .
you and i got handed one though , and billy palmer , he got handed shit .
gee , life sure sucks .
why are you doing this after all these years ?
you werent his biggest fan either , if i remember correctly .
no , no i wasnt , and im damned ashamed of it now .
now we all trip over our dicks to salute our heroes , but we were damn quick to deny them even the slightest respect then .
they were different , our men and women are much better now .
oh , really !
if as you say the youth was all screwed up then , that includes all of us .
you and i included , bozo .
but that does make sense , considering the job you did for billy !
look manny , darnit , i didnt do the best job i could have , but i was young , and to tell you the truth i was never cut out for the court room .
i didnt hate billy .
he was a vet back from that horrible place , and we were so inundated with negative propaganda .
i dont need to explain or defend my opinion regarding the time .
i think vastly different about what happened in vietnam these days .
do you know , ive gone to the wall three times .
ive walked the paths up and down that horrible place more than once .
ive stopped and read the names , many of the names , and believe me , it makes you think .
i thought of billy every time i was there .
you ever been there manny ?
no , ive been in washington , but never go look at all the names , cut in carl , and then we can discuss this again , fair enough ?
and manny , sometimes i think about being tied up on casseys porch .
i kind of chuckle to myself and wish it could have been you .
manny decided to call ed wyscouski , the resident bully he had discussed with cassey .
wyscouski had played golf with billy after they had returned from the service .
back then wyscouski had been learning the game and billy was helping him .
hey ed , manny anderson .
manny , how the hell you doing ?
i imagine it must be getting good and miserable , about now ?
you got it , manny replied .
ed wyscouski had not spent a winter in red pine in years .
so , whats on your mind ?
going to take me up on the offer to spend some time down here this winter ?
i might just do that ed , but the reason i called is i just attended billy palmers funeral .
wyscouski was quiet for a moment .
damn , i hadnt heard .
im sorry to hear that .
he was a good guy and then he just disappeared .
what the heck happened to him ?
i dont know , thats what im trying to find out ?
now ?
its a little late manny my friend , and dont go blaming vietnam , palmer came back just fine .
i know , i know , but i just cant get it out of my mind that we might have been a little responsible .
oh , dont let it get you down , manny , of course you were responsible .
you were just too immature , then .
too immature to appreciate the tough , necessary job someone else was taking care of for you .
thanks wyscouski , is that supposed to help me feel better ?
manny , you dont want to feel better .
if you did , you wouldnt have called .
manny , what youre concerned about has been happening forever and always will .
its called a guilt trip .
i know that , but but what ?
wyscouski interrupted .
get off your dead ass , find out what billy was all about , and then you can feel better about yourself .
let me know what you find .
manny and cassey were sitting together , cuddling and watching the fireplace crackle and pop .
you didnt tell me what happened with carl today .
oh , i went tearing in there , told him off good .
and ?
and , he pulled some lawyer shit on me .
really sherlock , thats what they get paid for , you know .
yeah , he nailed me good , made me look bad .
you want to meet me in washington ?
to do what ?
i want to go see the vietnam memorial .
what brought that on ?
weve been there a couple of times , and you never andrews stuck it to me .
i made a big spiel about his duty to billy , and he asked me if i had ever been to the wall .
turns out he has , more than once , and i get the feeling he shed a tear or two , and now i need to go .
i thought you were headed to new york to see the publisher buddy of billys ?
on the way back , ill just be stopping in d. c. for the day .
well , ill pass , you dont want me sobbing at some dreary monument .
you know how i get , but thanks for asking .
chapter 7 thank you for seeing me mark , manny said , shaking hands with mark tainer , billys ex partner .
it appears that you are a very busy man , so i wont take up much of your time .
no problem , manny .
mark pointed to a big chair off to the side of his desk .
i can always take some time out to chat about old and dear friends .
it was a shock to hear that billy palmer was gone .
bill and i were very close , we went through some interesting times together .
we operated as a two man team , back then where our very existence depended on our actions coordinating .
when was the last time you talked to billy ?
oh boy , let me think ?
damn , it must be twenty five years now .
he came to see me just after i got married .
you didnt stay in touch ?
well , manny , i have a confession to make .
my first wife was not too pleased to have an old marine buddy show up .
she was very demanding and any attention that went somewhere else was not appreciated by her highness .
billy was very uncomfortable , and i was very much in love , so the reunion wasnt a big success .
i stayed married to that particular lady for twelve years and by the time i got clear , billy was long lost , im afraid .
yeah , i can understand , manny returned .
i was really close to billy once , and a woman came between us too .
but , in all honesty , tainer quickly returned , after i got back to civilian life it wasnt so important anymore .
in the marines we were close out of a need for the moment , tainer confessed .
can you tell me what it was like , what billy was like to serve with ?
manny asked .
yes , i probably could , but first you should understand why we did what we did .
there are many misconceptions about vietnam .
the truth was never an issue that was explored in any depth .
there have always been two great questions one , why we got involved in the first place , and two , why couldnt we win ?
mark sat , waiting for a response from manny .
i dont know ?
its kind of why im here , manny said , filling in the gap .
i knew so little about it , but i was warned to stay out of it by the very guy im trying to find out about .
palmer told you to stay out of it huh ?
what exactly did he tell you ?
that it was a bunch of shit , a load of crap , and that i didnt have what it would take to stay alive .
of course , he told everyone that .
he said we would make terrible soldiers because thirteen months was no way to run a war .
if you got sent over there , all you had to do was make the thirteen months and then you could go home .
as soon as you get there , you started counting the days .
the only motivation is to survive , not seek out and destroy the enemy .
yes , its a hell of a penalty when the other side is following different rules .
they stay until the job is done , or they die .
were you offended by billy telling you all this ?
mark returned .
at the time , i guess a little .
some of the other guys were pissed off , but looking back , they probably wanted to hear that .
i can remember them showing body bags on tv .
christ thats all you saw night after night , the same old shit .
i know , i didnt want to go after seeing that a few times .
all billy really ever told me about the war was that it was his first , definitive reality check when he was looking at body bags that were his friends .
he realized he was going in one direction and they were going in another .
know anybody that was killed ?
mark asked yeah , a couple of guys from the next town over bought it .
what did you think of that ?
it scared the shit out of me .
and you saw it continually , on tv ?
every night .
yeah , the media was definitely out of control .
the first mission billy and i got was riding shotgun for this french journalist .
man was she ugly .
she would run right up front when the shit hit the fan , trying to get the pulitzer picture .
shed stick her camera right in the faces of the wounded .
a real heartless bitch .
she finally got shot in the ass on the fourth day .
the media was there to line their own nests , but it wasnt the reason we apparently lost , mark said seriously , sitting forward in his chair , resting his elbows on the edge of the desk .
the main reasons we apparently lost that battle , he continued , was one , we were compromised in the field .
every operation , every move we made was relayed to our allies , the south vietnamese .
the war was supposed to be a joint cooperation with the arvin , the south vietnamese army and they were full of viet cong .
second , politics , and the likes of you helped loose the war manny .
you and the politicians because any democracy will have trouble defeating any enemy that does not directly threaten the home front .
unless the enemy is marching down main street there will be some politician or political advocate that will be looking for an issue to rally support , to either get votes or to shirk responsibility .
why does that include me ?
manny asked , curious .
because billy warned you that it was not in your best interest , so you didnt support the effort !
tainer criticized .
and the other side realized that if they just held out , eventually that lack of support would turn in their favor .
you know manny , a bunch of hayseeds with a half baked , personal agenda can cancel out any worthwhile endeavor .
there was nothing worthwhile about vietnam , manny declared .
oh really , tainer said , annoyed .
any communists running around , pointing missiles in our direction these days ?
well , yeah , china manny started to list the countries , but tainer cut him off .
all headed toward capitalistic societies , tainer said .
they want to be like us because we broke the soviet union by standing up to their military expansion .
vietnam is now one of the fastest growing economies in the world because we gave them the taste of freedom and prosperity .
we may have lost the battle , but we did win the war .
there should be a better way than stomping on people to get their attention , manny commented .
not so far , not in our barbaric world , tainer said .
you said we were compromised in the field , and no one did anything about it ?
manny asked .
it was so despicable the government still wont talk about it , let alone admit anything , and they knew the whole time .
they had this program , something thought up , by i cant imagine who , called cheiu hoi , open arms .
we paid any viet cong eighty five dollars a month to come on over to our side .
at that time their national average income was about two hundred and fifty dollars a year .
well , come over they did , but the powers that be didnt exactly screen those guys .
they came over all right , but all we got were vc agents .
of course when it became evident that the whole thing was a failure , nobody wanted to admit the mistake , so the easiest thing to do was deny there was anything wrong .
come on tainer , how could they be so stupid ?
you want to hear stupid ?
a society that still had one foot in the stone age was able to completely humiliate the most advanced technological society to date , and get paid while doing it .
thats beyond stupid , its ludicrous , but fact .
too much money was flowing and no one was willing to stand up and say enough , lets fix it .
in a capitalistic society anyone that rocks the boat when things are humming will meet a stone wall .
so , even though we were being sold out , it continued because no one wanted to take the blame , or stop the money , manny commented .
yup , when we were there in 66 , our sniper teams controlled an area between con tien and the rock pile , an area in northwest vietnam .
we acted with impunity in that area .
the teams controlled an area 30 miles long and 20 miles deep , right up to the river to north vietnam and the laotian border .
just on the other side of the boarder was the ho chi min trail .
boy , that was something up there , once you got into stalking the prey , the hunting and the kill , its hard to back away .
i dont know if i could to this day if i was presented with the opportunity .
anyway , marine force recon operated beyond us , right into laos and north vietnam .
they used to come back pissed off as hell .
they would find troop concentrations , camps , truck parks , all kinds of nva convoys and supply depots , then they would call in air strikes and sit and watch the target empty before the strike would take place .
it would take sometimes two days until the strike would occur and by then the bombs would find nothing but empty jungle to wreak .
we had a policy of working with our allies and by god , the powers that be , regardless of the outcome stuck to their policy .
didnt anyone figure out what was going on ?
of course everyone knew what was happening , but squawking about it didnt do any good .
shit , the guys that saw it happening were told that how the war was run was none of their business .
they were putting their lives on the line and being betrayed by their own commanders and everybody knew it .
my god , i never realized it was that bad , that our government could be so inept ?
manny , youre a business man , what makes a business fail ?
you run out of money .
and if the money never stops flowing ?
i guess you dont need to be too bright , if thats the case .
its the first rule of politics , money talks .
thats how we ended up in vietnam , in the first place .
vietnam had a long history of being invaded and repelling those that transgressed on her turf .
the big question was why did the u.s. attempt to conqueror an enemy with such a stellar record ?
well , its simple , the u.s. never thought about winning any war there .
they had just bought fifty five hundred huey helicopters from bell , located in texas , lbjs home turf by the way .
the u.s. military needed a combat situation to test the new fast attack principle made possible by the introduction of the huey .
the huey was light , powerful , and easy to manufacture , and there was plenty of money to run the test .
the military was blinded by the desire to modernize and forgot the main reason they should have been there , to win what they started .
by the time they had gotten the data they needed to understand the principle of helicopter warfare , they were caught in a situation they needed to get out of , but couldnt .
i guess thats what billy was trying to tell us when he got back , manny said .
he hated the war , called it criminal .
he got so angry about the things being said about the soldiers being screw ups .
he put all the blame on the politicians , but he never explained it like you just did .
many people used that against him , said that he was defending the problem , defending baby killers , that sort of thing .
i can remember him saying , let me see if i can remember this right .
he told me that quote , politics is a system devised by those that cant , to reap the benefits earned by those that can .
bingo !
tainer laughed .
youll never find a politician that knows the meaning of oops .
that was palmer all right , mark continued .
he was a smart dude .
he had a feel for the war , knew what was going on .
everyone in our outfit looked up to him , and everyone wanted to go into the field with billy .
he had a reputation for finding the action and living to tell about it .
he never said much about it after he was back , manny commented .
what did you expect him to say ?
i dont know , but not telling any stories led people to think that he wasnt really in combat , that he was over there fucking off , or something .
oh manny , i dont know if you ever figured it out or not , but guys that spend to much energy telling pussy or war stories are generally full of shit .
yeah , i figured that out , eventually .
i kind of figured billy had been in the thick of it , and i think most other people suspected it too , but theres always the ones that cant tally anything .
billy had gotten wounded and there was a rumor that he had lost his arm or hand , but when he came back home he was all in one piece , so the rumors started flying .
he wouldnt say anything , so no one got the truth .
im curious about something you said ?
manny continued .
you said you guys controlled this area .
how can that be ?
id always heard that the countryside belonged to the vc .
oh bullshit !
the viet cong and nva planned everything in detail , from an ambush to an attack .
if you hit them unexpectedly they didnt know what to do , and besides , they were afraid of the jungle .
the whole population of that country , north and south , lived next to the jungle , but they only went in fifty feet to relieve themselves and then right back out to the trail , village , or paddy .
as children they never played in the jungle , out back in the woods , like we did .
we never saw any villagers in there , not like the american soldier .
shit , as kids we all played in the woods , hunting and fishing , exploring , cowboys and indians , even playing soldier for christ sakes .
and how many of us got our first piece of ass out in the woods .
its good prep , believe me .
wasnt the jungle different ?
i mean nastier than back home ?
where you from , minnesota , didnt you say ?
yeah , red pine minnesota .
any woods around ?
oh , hell yeah , mostly woods , some very thick stuff too .
you can get really lost if you arent careful .
hunters get lost all the time , some of them die walking around in circles .
you could get eaten to death by the mosquitoes .
spend any time in there ?
hell yes , did a lot of hunting .
and , yeah , got laid too .
get any good figuring out how to find your way around ?
tainer asked .
oh yeah !
not as good as billy though , everyone kind of followed his lead .
that was billys forte , map reading , tainer explained .
he had this skill of always knowing exactly where he was and where to go , at all times .
when we got to going out with the line companies , the officers relied on him almost exclusively .
i remember one time a platoon commander was arguing with his co about our position .
this lt. was certain we were in this particular village and billy disagreed .
the co went with billy and sure enough he was right .
they were calling in artillery and you didnt want to be in the wrong spot when it hit .
i remember that , billy was real savvy about the woods .
manny said , shaking his head in agreement .
same as vietnam .
like i said , the enemy had no experience in that shit , so it gave us a big advantage .
yeah , still , wasnt the jungle a lot more dangerous ?
we didnt have poison snakes in our neck off the woods .
tainer laughed .
hell , i grew up in magnolia , arkansas , woods just as bad as any jungle , swamps , bogs , quick sand , water moccasins , rattlesnakes , you name it .
most of that shit is nothing more than an uncomfortable annoyance if you know what youre doing .
you know what billy liked about the vietnam jungle , as opposed to minnesota ?
tainer asked , waiting for manny to answer .
manny just shrugged .
you brought it up , mosquitoes , tainer continued .
he said that the bugs were nothing compared to back home .
the jungle is a lot quieter to move around in too , not as much dry material , everything is damp and soft .
we could slither through that shit without making a sound .
wed sometimes see how close we could get to the little buggers , just for the hell of it .
slip right up to them and then back out .
we even snatched a kid one night .
some damn kid soldier , about twelve , went out in the woods to take a dump and walked right up to us .
he dropped his pants about a foot from me and i just reached out and grabbed him , one hand over his mouth and that was it .
poor kid had walked for three months from the north , up around hanoi .
he had an ak47 , three magazines , and a sock of rice .
the poor bastard was convinced we were going to eat him , anyway thats what he was told .
i sure hated to turn him over to the arvin bastards , knowing what theyd do to him , but that was the policy .
theyd torture the hell out of their own people , just to make it look good .
make us think that they really hated the viet cong , when they were cong themselves .
crazy shit huh ?
tainer said shaking his head in disgust .
i remember one time after we moved down south , tainer continued , we were based southwest of da nang .
the base camp was surrounded by villages and rice paddies and we couldnt operate like we did in the north , so we went out with the companies .
that was a fuckin mess .
a hundred idiots walking down the trails and across the paddies in full view , yelling , cursing .
now , that scared the shit out of me .
anyway , sometimes some asshole company commander would try and mess with us , try to make us walk point , stand watches , some stupid shit that we didnt like , so wed grab a villager and call in a chopper .
we were in charge of prisoners , captured gear , so forth and were supposed to escort any prisoners to the arvin compound in da nang .
we grabbed a couple of villagers one day , a man and a woman , after some stupid shit and figured wed spend a couple days in da nang , see some movies , drink a little beer , whatever .
anyway , an arvin chopper picks us up with these two villagers and were up there at five thousand feet , and this arvin major is interrogating these villagers .
trying anyway , i mean shit all weve got is a couple rice farmers , grabbed out of a fuckin paddy while theyre working away .
so this major is getting nothing but toy comb beick , i dont know , and he gets pissed , and grabs the woman , and throws her out of the chopper .
i couldnt believe it !
i thought billy was going to kill this son of a bitch .
billy had his hands around the majors neck , holding him about a foot off the chopper floor , choking the shit out of him , the little bastards legs kicking away .
i had to pop billy in the back of the head with my rifle butt , to get him to stop .
jesus , what happened then ?
not much , the major was sitting on the floor gagging , his sidekick pointing out the door screaming , vc , vc .
they werent about to mess with billy because he had this nasty look on his face .
i was worried that billy was going to shoot somebody , really .
im sure they were thinking the same thing .
when the chopper landed , they were in a real big hurry to get rid of us .
yeah , i remember billy getting mad , manny added .
it was rare , but when he did , watch out .
i remember playing hockey .
billy was tough , that was one place you didnt want to mess with him .
one time i hit him with a high stick and he warned me .
i did it again , i hit him in the nose , and i was sure sorry i didnt take him serious .
he zeroed in on me for the rest of the game and made my life miserable .
i ended up crawling into a snow bank and laying there for half an hour after the game was over .
so you guys took the war serious , huh ?
manny continued .
ill bet you two were good ?
oh yeah , shit wed catch those buggers , sometime as many as a hundred , pop off a couple shots , then move and they never came after us .
like i told you , they didnt know what to do because we surprised them .
i remember billy and i followed a couple squads of nva , north vietnamese army , porters for three days , picking them off , slowly but surely , and they never tried to come and get us .
the only reason we backed off was they moved into an area of rice paddies , and we lost our cover .
i can almost visualize that , i remember billy was a good shot , manny said .
actually , billy didnt like to shoot that much , tainer commented , after he nailed an old lady with a chair .
one day we saw two people in black pajamas diddy bopping down a trail across a paddy about 500 meters away .
one of them had something sticking up from a pack on their back .
looked like a rifle from that distance .
turned out to be a chair that had been taken apart .
not a good scene .
anyway , after that billy tended to run the show instead , spotter , decision maker , etc .
he was very astute and cautious .
after the chair thing , he was especially careful to make sure that we were taking shots at the proper people .
you talk the same as billy , manny said .
i notice that you dont like to use gook or other derogatory slang to describe the other side .
it wasnt their fault , they were jacked into a bunch of bullshit , just like we were .
at least we had some idea of what was going on .
they were mostly uneducated and continually brainwashed .
at least we only had to go through that shit in boot camp .
once you got to vietnam , it was every man for himself , and like i said before , you learned to loath your side more , knowing what you did .
do you think that many of those arvin you talked about , eventually got here , to the states i mean ?
asked manny .
oh , id imagine a lot of them did .
they were the smart ones , looking out for themselves .
i dont blame them either .
i figure that if theyre lucky enough , they can come here and then do the best they can , more power to them .
tainer looked at manny for a moment , then asked .
so what happened to palmer ?
whats got you so interested in us old sniper dudes ?
oh , the more i find out about you guys , the madder i get at myself , manny answered .
youre pissed about something ?
tainer questioned .
you mentioned that a woman came between you guys .
what did you do to palmer that youre regretting now ?
a lot of things i guess .
billy and i were great friends since we were in grade school .
he was a great kid .
we had a lot of fun , i can remember so many things now .
what happened ?
he went to vietnam , i stayed home .
how come ?
oh , billy took off right out of high school .
we were at a party one night and there was a life magazine with a pictorial about the war .
a bunch of us were looking at it and billy made some comment about it looked interesting , or something like that .
anyway , somebody , i cant remember who , called him on the comment and billy said , oh yeah and next thing we know , hes volunteered for the draft .
it was only two years that way and billy said he had no interest in staying in the military any longer than he had to .
after he passed his physical , they said he could have his choice of the army , or the marines because he had volunteered .
i remember him laughing about how it was february and army boot camp was in fort leonard wood , missouri , and the marine boot camp was in san diego .
he made his choice based on the weather alone .
he said he was standing on yellow footprints , at attention , with some nasty little bastard yelling in his face , before he realized he should have thought it through better .
that was a shock all right , mark laughed .
i was right there with him .
we went through boot camp and then the vietnam thing together .
i can remember billy getting into all kinds of trouble for laughing .
this little di would stand right in front of him staring up , giving him a line of shit .
i mean this little guy was really tough , but funnier than hell .
hed pick on billy , until billy would smirk or something , and then palmer would end up doing squat thrusts .
i think that di got a kick out of palmer .
the day we graduated that di put his hand on billys shoulder and told him to be careful and pay attention , that the war was no joke .
how did you guys end up snipers ?
manny asked .
when we got over there , they were looking at our records and we both scored high on the rifle range and they asked us if we were interested in going to sniper school .
one of the marines advised us that the regular ground pounders was not the way to go and we took it .
i cant tell you how many times i was grateful that we did what we did .
i felt sorry for those regular grunts , man they had it rough .
they were tired , dirty , scared , humping all day , then digging in , standing watch half the night .
it all adds up to being numb , thats the only way to continue .
it went on day after day and there was nothing they could do about it .
it could be a booby trap , a couple of shots by a sniper , a mortar round thrown in , but its all the same .
a chopper comes and does its thing , takes somebody away .
sometimes its someone you know , sometimes not .
worst is when youre close to someone .
getting close only takes a couple of hours because the guys talk about what they miss the most , whats dear to them .
you want to hear about anybodys home , the world , as we called it , and it doesnt matter whos version you get .
it is where you want to be instead of where you are .
thats about as close as you can get to someone in a short time .
sometimes it can happen two , three , four times in a single day .
tainer continued , sadness in his vice .
it all happens so fast , a body bag laying there was minutes ago some guy you were just talking to .
its strange , but your heart doesnt ache for that guy , but for the family back in the states that you know is going to get some shitty news in the next few hours .
thats where your thoughts go .
to them because they had nothing to do with this , but theyre going to pay .
the more they loved that guy , the worse its going to be .
tainer paused , looked out the window , and then continued .
i hated it when we had to go with the line companies .
i mean talk about stupid shit .
when we were in the jungle , just a couple of us , or maybe four or five sometimes , it was so much better .
i would think it would be dangerous , just a small number of guys ?
manny commented .
no , like i told you , we moved without them knowing where we were , or if we were there at all .
shit , we were so good that we snuck up on a tiger one time .
no shit !
no shit !
sucker jumped about five feet straight up in the air , turned and vanished .
i doubt if that cat had ever seen humans in the bush before .
really surprised his ass !
tainer looked at manny .
now that ive told you about billy and vietnam , you tell me why youre here ?
i told you billy died last month , manny answered .
yeah , and ?
he didnt have it so good after vietnam , manny said sadly .
many of the guys had it rough , not just billy .
i know a few guys that never fit in after they were back .
theyre still out there , wondering around , unstable as hell .
the war was their only chance to shine and theyd do it again , in a flash .
many of them came from small towns just like billy , and the military was their only cosmopolitan experience .
after the service , they went back to the small town , and the training they got wasnt exactly something they could use to assimilate .
makes sense , i could see where that could happen , manny agreed .
you know some of these guys , keep in touch ?
i know theyre out there .
you have something you want to get off your chest ?
tainer asked .
how did you know that ?
im a smart guy , thats how i got through the war without a scratch , i might add .
billy was wounded , manny said .
yeah , more than once .
how did it happen ?
you tell me whats on your mind first , and ill decide if youre worth any more of my time , mark tainer answered .
fair enough .
chapter 8 billy and i were friends since seventh grade , manny explained .
he moved from someplace on the east coast that summer , the one between seventh and eighth grades .
i met him at the golf course , he was a good player and so was i .
the golf course was a hangout , most of my friends parents belonged , like mine did .
billys didnt , but he hung around there to caddie .
he was a good player and the golf pro let him play .
we pretty much lived at the course in the summer because they also had a swimming pool and tennis courts .
everyone liked billy because he was fun .
the girls liked him too because he was nice to them , kind of like a brother , or a confidant .
billy was sort of daring , not beyond pulling stunts .
if you were looking for something to do , he was the guy .
he was sort of a loner too .
i mean , you couldnt talk him into doing anything he didnt want to do and he didnt push himself on you , but the good stuff just seemed to happen around billy .
i mean , i could sit here for hours and tell you about some funny stuff .
he could screw around in school and most of the time the teachers would get a laugh out of it .
he never did something that got anybody else in trouble , and if any trouble came our way , he would cop to it , even if he wasnt the one , and it would blow over .
oh , he wasnt an angel or anything like that because there were somethings that we could have gotten into real trouble over , but we were lucky , i guess .
one of our big things was throwing snow balls at cars and it got a little out of control .
they had this husband and wife golf tourney every summer , kind of crazy golf , and they had this big sling shot to fire the golf balls on one hole .
we got a hold of it and used it to fire ice balls at cars because it would shoot a whole block .
we pummeled the three cop cars in town one night for about half an hour from the back of a nursery .
one of the cops got pissed and started shooting his pistol at us , so we scrammed .
we saved the slingshot and put it back , so the cops never figured it out .
there was this hood , thats what we called the tough guys then , wyscouski , and he used to beat everyone up .
we set a trap for him one night .
we hit wyscouskis car with snow balls and when he got out , billy let wyscouski see him so he would chase him .
billy drew him into this back yard with a high fence and we were all waiting .
man , did we knock the shit out of wacko , that was his nick name .
anyway , he tried to run out the other side gate , but we had iced down the sidewalk and stretched a blackened rope across the open gate and wyscouski caught it right in the running lights .
we thought we had killed him , knocked him out cold .
billy and i carried him across the street and put him on billys girlfriends porch and rang the doorbell .
he never figured out who it was until years later .
he would have killed us then , im sure .
he suspected billy , but i think he kind of liked billy , cause he never did anything to him .
we used to work together and billy was kind of over me .
it wasnt official , or anything , but he was just more dependable than i was , and better with the customers .
the boss , old man mcpherson , knew it and kind of took advantage of billy because billy would take care of anything that came up and the old man counted on it .
he never gave billy anything extra , but he used to compliment him a lot .
pump sunshine up my skirt , as billy used to say .
billy used to cover for me and andy mcpherson , the bosss son .
andy was a real fuck up , but his dad let him get away with a lot and billy picked up the slack , so andy didnt look so bad .
i can remember one time i got billy fired .
it was all my fault .
we were working saturday and i came in late .
i had , had a rough night .
manny sat thinking , reflecting back .
geez manny , you stink !
how much you drink last night ?
billy asked me when i got in .
i told him , way too much man and i feel like shit .
i dont know if i can do this .
oh my head !
shit , advised billy , were the only two this morning , youve got to stick it out , i told him i didnt know if i could , that throwing up on customers was a real possibility .
billy laughed and said , well dont barf on somebody important .
old man mcpherson will fire us both .
hes already pissed .
i wanted to know if mcpherson had been in yet and billy said , yeah , hes down at the diner getting breakfast .
billy covered for me and told the old man i was having car trouble , but was on my way .
billy told me , itll blow over , just dont figure on going home until hes gone for the day .
i was so sick , i was wondering if i was green or anything ?
no , billy said , but you smell like a friggin brewery , so just stay in back , ill take care of out front .
okay , but if i get any sicker , i told him , i dont know what will happen ?
no problemo , billy told me , but youre going to have to stay close , going home right now is not an option .
anyway , i gargled with some mouthwash and when old man mcpherson came back , i guess i passed all right because he just gave me a sort of snitty look , but didnt say anything .
he went off to play golf about noon and i went and laid down in the back room and fell asleep for a while .
andy came in , he was supposed to work the afternoon shift , but he had been drinking already to kill the hangover he had .
billy was supposed to get off at two , but andy was in no shape to relieve him and i was still feeling bad so billy said he would close up for us and we took off .
that stupid andy forgot to throw his beer cans away and old man mcpherson came back just after closing and found them .
billy had everything finished and was going home and i had come back to make it look like i had been there all day .
i brought a couple beers and billy and i were going to share one .
mcpherson came storming out into the parking lot , and theres billy with the beer .
he hadnt even taken a drink .
mcpherson fired him on the spot and didnt say a word to me until billy left , then mcpherson asked me if i knew that billy was drinking on the job and i said i wasnt sure , but i didnt think so .
billy had to beg for his job back .
thats when the old man accused him of stealing .
there was always money missing , not much , but i guess enough for the old man to notice .
we knew it was andy all along , but we never ratted on him .
mcpherson made billy work for two weeks for nothing , otherwise he wouldnt give him his job back .
red pine was a small town and that job was about the only one that was decent , so billy didnt have any choice .
he put up with a lot , especially andy and i screwing around all the time .
while billy was away in vietnam , mcpherson built a brand new store , about five times bigger a real full service operation .
when billy got back , it was by far the best job within fifty miles .
billy came back to work , but while he was gone , i was made assistant manager in charge of the sporting goods and andy had taken over the hardware dept .
billy ended up working for us and we werent very nice to him .
i mean , looking back , we were still kind of fuck ups , not as bad as high school , but andy was still skimming a few bucks and i didnt work as hard as i could have .
im finding out now that in the two years billy was gone he matured and did incredible things , while we just enjoyed life .
the worst thing that happened to billy , manny continued , was the tri town golf tournament .
after billy quit working at the store because he got tired of our bullshit so he went to work at the golf course .
he worked on the maintenance crew and the course superintendent loved him .
he started working in the spring and worked on his golf game all that summer .
i dont think he had played for a couple of years because of the marines , but he got his game back fast and was playing really well and on labor day week , there is a tri town tourney .
billy , andy mcpherson and i were in the championship flight .
i had won my second match , and was to play the winner of the match between billy and andy .
andy was the crowd favorite , but i didnt think he had a chance .
i knew i could beat andy , but didnt think i could beat billy , so i was pulling for andy too .
the whole town was at that tourney , watching that match and we were such snobs , no one even offered to caddie for billy .
andy was pulling the match out of his butt because he chipped in three times and sunk two long putts and they came to the eighteenth even .
andy hit a bad drive into the rough on the left side and billy hit a great shot up the right , into this open spot just in the rough .
from there it was an easy shot to the green .
one of andys friends was standing right where billys ball stopped and he picked it up and put it in his pocket .
it was just this little group of andys friends standing there when billy came up to find his ball .
no one copped to what had happened and billy had to take a two shot penalty for a lost ball and lost the match right there .
i found out what happened a little later , but i didnt say anything because billy had already left the course .
billy left town about a week later , and no one saw him again for , oh i dont know , probably twenty years .
i guess he came back once , just to look around .
manny turned away , quiet for a moment .
he got thrown in jail because of us .
manny told mark the story , admitting to the whole thing .
he also showed mark the trial transcript .
that son of a bitch had the balls to do this ?
mark raised his voice , holding the transcript up to manny , shaking it .
pretty sad , huh ?
it gets even worse .
cassey miller was his girlfriend .
cassey and billy had been together since freshman in high school .
she was really beautiful , intelligent , and kind .
i was a little jealous , but andy , bueler and some of the other guys were really infatuated with her .
while billy was in vietnam , we used to bring up the baby killing and all that .
anything we could to make the soldiers look bad , to make her forget billy .
i dont know what worked , but after billy had been gone for about three months , just after he got wounded the first time , cassey started hanging around me and i was thrilled .
i was floating on top of the world and i started dreading billy coming back because i thought it would be over with cassey .
we got close and a couple of months before billy came home , we were lovers , and cassey just stuck with me .
i was terrified that she would dump me and go back to billy , but he didnt seem all that upset when he found out , and cassey figured that he didnt care about her enough , so i ended up with the girl .
were you proud of yourself ?
hell no !
look , i dont know how i felt .
i was scared shitless though .
andy mcpherson said billy was just waiting for the right time to cut my throat , to get cassey back .
what made you think you were worth his time ?
oh , after a while i stopped worrying , but when youre in love its really important to you at the time .
so for a little fling , you stabbed your best friend in the back .
look , i know what youre thinking , but in my defense cassey came to me first and she is a wonderful lady .
im still married to her today .
well , that is a touching story .
how does this cassey feel about what youre doing ?
well , like she told me , she became a good wife and mother .
according to her it was her duty , ergo , no fault of hers what happened to billy , but she sympathizes and supports my mission .
your mission , is that some kind of attempt to impress me , the military talk ?
oh no , geez , im sorry .
i wasnt trying to be a smart ass .
i dont know why i said that .
i guess it does feels like a mission though , trying to find out what made billys life fail .
well , fuckin duh !
you take a guys integrity , something he earned the hard way and deny him the respect he deserved and you wonder why his life gets screwed up .
you get him put in jail on a trumped up charge and then you wonder how he failed himself .
do you have any idea how it must have felt for him to be incarcerated , especially wrongfully ?
you come whining to me , wondering , what happened to him ?
you and your worthless friends are what happened to him !
what a bunch of assholes you people were .
it must have been great to be so privileged .
do you know what we all learned in vietnam ?
we learned team work , sticking together .
we had to , to stay alive .
then billy comes home and his friends are jealous and they work against him and they get away with it .
does that answer your question what happened to billy palmer ?
he performed brilliantly under the worst of situations .
he proved himself as a leader and then he had to deal with you smucks .
can you imagine how he must have felt , trapped , having to take orders from you clowns ?
i manny started to make an excuse , but mark cut him off .
no , i dont imagine you could .
now you come crawling to me for absolution .
geez , im so sorry about what i did , i didnt know .
bullshit mr. anderson , youre here to make yourself feel good !
you dont give a shit about billy , never did .
youre not sophisticated enough for that .
you dont have to look him in the face and apologize , do you ?
no , hes not around anymore .
the best you can do is stand over his grave and say , geez im reeeaaaally sorry , that we were dumb fucks , but we just didnt understand .
why dont you make sure your pretty wife is there too ?
so she can tell billy she is also sorry , sorry that she ended up with your sorry ass , instead of a real man .
you know what a hero is , do you sport ?
its someone that does what no one else has the guts to .
its someone that takes the responsibility for everyone else and doesnt expect anything in return .
i guess i deserve that , manny said , his head down .
damn right you do !
mark said , staring intently at manny , but , its too late for an appeal , and all the tears in the world will make no difference .
you expected to come here , spill your guts , shed a few tears for effect , and then have me absolve your guilt .
but , i will not do that because it is way beyond my capabilities .
you are a selfish man , mr. anderson , you always were and always will be .
what do you really want from me ?
i dont know !
manny shouted , throwing his hands up .
he turned around , walked to the window , looking out frustrated .
i keep thinking im doing this for my son donny , hes in the army now , air cavalry , but i dont know ?
donny , smonny , tainer scolded , youre bored with life and billy palmer and his story excite you .
the more you find out , the more you want to know .
is that wrong ?
am i such a horrible man ?
see , youre just typical .
again it goes back to you !
youre only worried about what i think of you .
i guess i do ?
why ?
because i respect you , manny said , looking around the office .
that my friend , is a load of crap !
i saw you looking around , judging me by what ive got .
do you respect the man ive become , or do you respect how i got here ?
then again , maybe none of the above .
you might just be jealous , just like you were with billy .
it has nothing to do with how i got here , nothing at all to do with who i am .
you made the same mistake with palmer .
manny , the turmoil is in your head .
was it a mistake the way you judged billy , or is it how you really are ?
you tell me , youre the expert on recognizing and appointing guilt .
look manny , im not jumping your ass because i think youre an especially terrible person .
tainer said calmly .
we are a fucked up species , and i think you are just starting to realize why .
i rather doubt that .
the more i think i know , the more i realize just how stupid i am .
there , now youre finally getting somewhere .
ill tell you a little secret , let you off the hook a little .
we are simply a product of our emotions , all of us .
we have created this unbelievable technology , machines even doing our thinking for us and what happens ?
our most important decisions are based on how we feel at the time .
were just another dumb animal , governed by fear , jealousy , envy , sadness , happiness , all the same motivation my dog lives by , all just instincts .
we can claim were above all that , that were superior , just deny it , but in the end , theyre the driving force in our lives .
can i say something , something that will undoubtedly piss you off ?
manny asked .
go right ahead .
of course youre right about almost everything .
ive felt and acted exactly as you say .
i dont appreciate the harshness you presented it with , but ive matured enough to accept a little criticism now and then .
but , regardless of what my reasons are now , and i dont really know myself , id hoped that you being so close to billy you would have the decency of at least helping me in my quest .
billy was forgotten , and maybe i can do something to rectify that .
i cant do anything about the past , but i can sure do something about the future , and my sons well being is important to me , as well as the little woman .
god damn manny , i was wondering if you were going to stand up to the shit beating or not ?
what , you figured id walk out the door because you hurt my feelings ?
i was hoping not , but most people would have .
and ?
you would have gotten nothing further from me .
how the hell did you get so mean ?
mean , in my business you have to yank on peoples chains to get the best out of them .
if you coddle them , they think youre accepting their lousy work and figure they dont have to do anything more .
i raise hell with them so they try , and try , and try to appease me .
you wouldnt believe how that can get the creative juices flowing .
i think billy was trying to write a book .
was he now ?
id like to see that because he had a complex mind .
a vietnam book ?
boy , you know , i couldnt say .
how did you know he was writing ?
he approached me and a couple of the guys about buying into what he was working on .
what did you think of his work ?
i dont know , i never read it .
one of the guys was in advertising and he said it was ridiculous to buy into a book , said it was a silly way to invest .
that so ?
some big money in the story business .
for some reason people like to be entertained , and they even pay , go figure huh ?
id like to see whatever you can find , maybe he had something .
and manny , have you ever been to the wall in washington ?
no , thats where im headed now .
got some names here , mark reached for a pad and wrote down a list of names , then handed it to manny .
itll be interesting to see what your first impression might be .
and manny , what youre missing , why youre trying so hard to understand is you have never been tested , so you dont know how youll react under pressure .
we all wonder , you know , and only a few of us ever get put in a situation to find out .
thats the little thing that separates the warrior from the rest .
chapter 9 i cant believe im doing this , manny mumbled , sitting in the back seat of a washington d.c. cab , looking out the window .
all he can see of the city is mostly obscured by heavy falling snow .
it is not a good day to go sightseeing , i do agree with you sir , the cab driver replied in a heavy middle eastern accent .
oh , i wouldnt be stupid enough to go sightseeing on a day like this , manny said , thinking of defending his appearance as a rational american .
this is more of a request , no , more like an order .
some person makes you to go to that strange wall .
strange , why would you say that ?
manny was more curious than annoyed by the comment .
in this great country of america , you pay such a small price for so much .
in my country everybody is in war , and a wall like that would be to honor those that lived , not those that were lost .
welcome to america , manny said cynically .
yes , it is great place , especially on day like this .
in my country , getting warm on day like this would be very difficult .
manny guessed that explained why it was blazing hot in the cab , the driver luxuriating in it .
manny was certain deodorant and soap where also in short supply in this mans homeland .
he was almost relieved when the cabbie announced that they had arrived at a good spot for him to walk to the memorial .
the snow was coming down even heavier , but the temperature was not as cold as he was used to in red pine , and there was no wind .
huge flakes fell straight down out of the slate gray sky .
manny started toward the wall , taking the direction the cab driver had indicated .
the snow , six inches deep , covered everything and he had no idea if he was on a path or not .
manny walked through some trees and came to a small slope .
down below he could make out a long black ribbon rising out of the snow .
he walked down the slope and moved abreast of the monument , the full wall appearing out of the gloom .
he noted its sloping shape , the highest part meeting in the middle to his right .
he was standing where the stone began , only six inches high , then rose gradually to the center where it was ten feet tall .
he turned to face the wall , stooped down and saw names etched deep into the black stone .
he looked to his left , toward the middle , noting that the number of names increased as the stone got taller .
geez , you dumb ass , manny said to himself .
you dont even know how the names are arranged .
manny looked around hoping to spot someone , but it looked like he was absolutely alone .
had to pick a time when there was no one around to help , didnt ya , manny said to himself as he continued down the wall , just looking over the names as it grew in height , not really reading them .
he had a list of five names that tainer had given him , five guys that billy had known , now nothing more than a name and a memory on this wet , black obelisk .
he had walked almost the entire length of the wall , passing the middle , then down the other side until he had gotten to where the wall was low again .
he glanced up a path leading away from the monument , saw a concrete pedestal and headed for it .
on the pedestal was a book under a plexiglas cover with names followed by towns and cities listed .
he lifted the cover , conscious of the snow falling on the pages , but he suspected that the book was always maintained , so he looked for the names on his list .
the book also explained the order of the names .
they were on the wall chronologically , from the time of death .
the killing spree started at the center , the highest part of the monument and moved down the slope to the right , to the bottom of that wing and then flipped way over to the left wing , continuing at the bottom , moving up , ending at the center , the junction that formed the two angles of the stone wall .
manny found all the names in the book which was in alphabetical order .
after each name the location on the wall was listed .
all the names he sought were on panel eleven , lines eight through fourteen .
manny walked back down to the wall and found the eleventh panel and then the names .
he looked to his left and a short distance away , no more than ten feet , was the joint in the wall .
there , eleven panels away , the first casualties of the vietnam war were listed .
his eyes moved from panel one , back over panel eleven , just skimming , estimating the numbers by the amount of space they took up .
his eyes passed panel eleven and then continued down toward the end of the wall as it tapering off to nothing , sliding out of existence into the snow .
he was thinking back to what billy had told him about the war being a bunch of crap , not worth the lives they were losing .
that it was being fought all wrong because our leaders werent even trying to win , etc .
mark tainers words came to him as he stepped back a few paces and looked to his left , where the other wing of the wall appeared out of the snow and gradually rose to the middle to meet the right wing , the one with panel eleven on it , the whole time one thought kept going through mannys mind .
those fuckers !
he exclaimed out loud .
they knew it here , manny pointed to eleven , straight in front of where he stood , and did nothing about it as all these guys , manny moved his hand down the wall , to the right , stepping back as he went .
he got to the end of the right side and turned back the other way quickly , sticking out his left hand to point to the far start of the wall , moving it quickly back to the center .
died for nothing !
he shouted at the top of his lungs , swinging his arm past his body , twisting around one hundred and eighty degrees until he was facing away from the wall .
manny stood there , looking straight ahead , the snow falling on his bare head .
off in the distance he could see a figure watching him .
it looked like a woman , but it was hard to tell .
he stood looking at the person , wanting whoever it might be to come the rest of the way so he could tell someone , anyone , what he had discovered .
it dawned on him that everyone that came to this place with a name , probably went away with the same feeling of disgust that was coursing through his body .
whoever designed this sure did their job , huh ?
manny shouted to the person watching him through the falling snow .
there was no response , so manny turned , looked at the wall one more time and walked away .
as he was ascending the slight slope , he turned as he walked and saw the unknown person now descending toward the memorial .
probably thinks im some deranged sob .
cant blame them a bit , manny said quietly , the snow soaking up the sound of his voice .
manny stood in the deepening snow at the edge of the street , slowly shaking his head deep in thought , as a cab came driving up the street .
manny was so lost in his thoughts he didnt perceive the cab pulling up to him .
sensing he was not alone he looked up and then it registered it was the same cab .
his first thought was to let this one go , he wasnt cold , just numb from the experience , but the driver sat there , waiting for him to decide .
the passenger window of the cab slid down and the driver leaned over .
you might be only business for the day , sir , the cabby said quietly .
oh , im sorry , i was just thinking .
you saw the name of a loved one there ?
manny hesitated , loved one ?
billys name wasnt there , but what was billy to him ?
i guess i had loved billy once , but certainly not when it counted .
i saw some names that told me more about myself than i care to admit , manny confessed , reaching for the door handle .
that black stone is very powerful , sir .
i have seen many come back as you have .
is that why you waited for me ?
it is a slow day , sir .
manny didnt say anything as he got in the car , but he knew the driver was sensitive to what the meaning of the wall was and how it affected people .
did they treat soldiers in your country bad like that ?
manny asked as he gestured back with his head , back toward the park .
much worse , sir , much worse .
i see america as a place that learns her lessons .
sir that is why i am here .
thank you very much .
i learned a lot today .
i appreciate you looking out for me .
it is just my job , sir .
chapter 10 manny anderson , havent seen you in a long time , gwen , billys sister said , holding open the door to her house .
come on in , i was surprised when tom said you had called and wanted to come down here .
ill bet its cold as hell back in red pine .
i miss the seasons , but not the cold , she said as she walked into the kitchen .
ill never regret moving to san antonio .
its a lot nicer here this time of the year , for sure , manny replied , seeing gwens husband tom sitting at the table .
yeah , we like it , gwen continued .
it can get a little hot in the summer , but everything is air conditioned , so we make it okay .
its a little strange at christmas , but with all the kids gone , what the heck .
how the heck you doing tom ?
its good to see you again , manny said as he shook toms hand and then took an empty chair at the table .
not bad manny , tom returned .
i didnt expect you to get here so soon though , but its good to see you .
hell , its got to be twenty years since gwen and i were back up there .
how are things for you back in the land of killer mosquitoes ?
not bad , winters too long and too hard , same old stuff .
hows your golf game these days ?
tom asked .
i hardly play anymore , backs not too good .
not bad , actually , im still playing to a two , but one of these years i will have to accept the inevitable .
so , what does bring you to texas , manny ?
gwen asked .
i understand that billy left some stuff with you ?
anyway , thats what tom told me .
yeah , he was trying to write a book , gwen said without any excitement .
i heard about that , manny responded .
he asked me one time if i could help him try to get it published .
that was some time ago though , and i kind of blew him off .
yeah , a long time ago , gwen returned .
it was just a lot of gibberish .
i read some of it , and it was a waste of time , too many mistakes .
oh come on gwen , there was some good stuff in there , tom countered .
oh tom , those vietnam vets were a pain in the ass , all of them .
expected everyone to have sympathy on them , because they served , gwen snarled .
gwen , billy never bothered you for anything , tom scolded her .
youre just bitter because of campbell , because he put you through a lot .
a lot !
gwen cried .
i wasted ten years of my life on that bum .
boy was he screwed up .
nothing but a drunk and a druggy , and ill tell you , he wasnt that way before he went over there , guaranteed .
that war really fucked him up .
the war didnt screw him up , tom returned .
hell , he didnt ever go out in the field .
i know for a fact he spent his whole time in the rear killing his brain cells , doing drugs .
billy was no better , he didnt do anything with his life , did he ?
gwen sneered .
well , you and your family sure didnt make it easy for him , tom said i cant believe youre trying to blame gwen said defensively .
folks please !
manny interrupted .
i didnt come here to try to focus any blame .
i just would like to see the things he wrote .
can i see the stuff youve got ?
i guess .
ill go look for it , gwen said leaving the room .
dont tell her i told you , tom whispered , but she borrowed some money from billy and was supposed to edit that writing for him , but never got around to it .
i read quite a bit of it and ive got to tell you , i thought some of it was damn good .
theres one story i really liked .
about vietnam ?
manny questioned .
no , no , there was nothing about the war .
fiction stories , and like i said some of it was interesting .
i feel sad about old billy , he wasnt a bad guy at all .
he never caused us any trouble , but it was just that gwen went through so much shit with campbell .
she really tried to make that marriage work .
she just couldnt accept that the problem was campbell himself , and just blamed the war .
in her head everyone involved in that fiasco was lumped into the same boat .
you had a brother that was there , didnt you ?
manny asked tom .
yeah , stan .
he came back okay ?
oh yeah , hes a great guy .
shit , a hell of a lot more normal than most people i know .
you know billy came through here one time .
he was looking for work and i wanted to hire him , but gwen raised hell , so to keep the peace i didnt go through with it .
billy knew he wasnt wanted and left the next day , tom said .
im finding out that a lot of people looked the other way when it came to him , manny returned .
i wonder why , it didnt make sense to me ?
tom said .
the jail thing , and then he was gone for a long time .
manny kind of shrugged .
when he did come back , he didnt have anything , so people just assumed he had gone bad .
yeah , i can still see billy getting off that bus here in san antonio , a tiny , little bag in his hand .
he looked so sad .
something bad had happened , i could tell , but i couldnt get it out of him ?
i never did understand how he got in all that trouble years before .
i never heard of him hurting anyone , except that idiot bueler .
old billy was always funnier than hell and so easy going .
we all lied about that tom , and i was as much to blame as anyone .
jesus manny !
i know , i look back , and i am not proud of myself .
talk about looking back ?
it was strange , his family didnt care much about him , and ill never understand that .
you know , his dad was a fairly good guy , but he had this thing about billy .
i never could figure out why ?
lots of gwens opinion is based on that .
billys mother went with the old man too .
gwen came back with a box filled with papers .
manny picked some out and looked through what he had in his hand .
boy , theres a lot of writing here .
its nothing but junk , i tell yeah , gwen said .
do you mind if i take this , ill bring it back ?
manny asked .
nah , keep it , i have no use for it , gwen said .
i guess im wondering why you didnt attend the funeral ?
manny asked .
many people there ?
gwen countered .
no , just cassey and i. cassey , cassey miller ?
gwen returned .
yes .
you two got married , right ?
gwen said , accusingly .
yeah .
still ?
still married ?
yes .
the two of you , his ex best friend and his ex girlfriend .
how romantic , gwen said with the accusing tone .
at least we went !
manny exclaimed , a little angrily .
i had three days notice , and in case you cant figure it out , gwen returned , also angry , it was a long way to go .
i dont know what you do for money , but tom and i have to watch what we spend ?
very pragmatic of you , manny stated .
billy was very pragmatic , as im sure you knew .
gwen stood glaring at manny .
do you think he would have approved ?
manny hesitated , not wanting to continue the argument .
yes , he would have understood , he said quietly .
look , manny , i appreciate your going to my brothers funeral , but we just werent a close family , gwen said calmly with a sad voice .
i hadnt seen him in years .
what the hell difference would it have made to billy , if i was there or not ?
not much that i can see , manny said , shaking his head .
dont get prissy with me !
gwen shouted .
you guys were always together when you were kids , and then after he comes back , nothing .
i heard all the stuff about you and that tramp cassey going out behind billys back .
great home coming he had .
comes home and his girlfriend is shacking up with his best friend .
i guess you couldnt be friends anymore , huh ?
gee , i wonder why ?
sounds like you needed to be at the funeral more than i did .
im just trying to manny hesitated .
trying to what ?
you know manny , whats done is done , and i appreciate what you think youre trying to do .
it may sound noble , but just admit youre doing it for yourself , so dont try to bullshit me , okay .
and tell cassey , i said thanks for going to the funeral .
gwen spun on her heels and walked away .
tom saw manny out to the car .
look manny , between you and i , im sorry about billy .
like i already said , he was an okay guy , but you know how convoluted family dynamics can be and when the fix is in , it just is .
yeah , its just that after its too late , where do you go to get it right in your own head ?
manny asked , shaking toms hand .
chapter 11 manny was sitting at his desk in his office , staring out the window .
the phone rang and he picked it up .
manny , cassey said on the other end , ive been sorting through that writing you gave me , that stuff you got from billys sister .
how come you never read any of this ?
didnt you say billy came to you about it ?
not me directly , he talked to frank nesbit .
billy thought that because frank was doing copyright he might know something ?
did frank read any of this ?
geez , i dont know ?
frank just said that it was a waste of time .
there was no money to be made from an unknown author .
i think thats what he said because it was a long time ago ?
whats up , anything good ?
good ?
im no expert manny , but this one story im cleaning up is really something .
its called timtown .
some kid called tim finds an alien base thats abandoned , but its still chewggling along .
its run by a computer that the kid calls mr. v , mr. voice .
im just a quarter of the way through , but i cant put it down .
billy was quite the writer , manny .
im fixing it as i go and i should have a cleaned up copy by tomorrow .
you have got to read this .
this story would make a hell of a movie .
no kidding !
manny sat forward .
i never figured billy to be a writer , he never did any when we were hanging around .
well , he sure as hell figured it out somewhere along the way .
when you getting home ?
not too much longer , ive got a couple of things to wrap up .
i located that guy that put billy and tainer in for the medal , and guess what ?
oh , oh , youre happy about something .
could it be this requires a trip to , lets say , a warm climate .
florida babe , about as warm as it gets .
manny was sitting enjoying the fire he had built in their large stone fireplace .
this is about the only thing i can really say i enjoy about winter , a good stiff drink and a roaring fire , manny said to cassey , as she walked in carrying a stack of papers .
heres the first six chapters , good reading , cassey said , giving manny the stack of papers .
she had a proud , accomplished look on her face .
that was quick , you must have put some work into this ?
not really , billy had it all pretty much together .
i just had to figure out where , and there it all was .
manny started reading , the clock on the fireplace mantle said 6 34 .
at 8 51 , manny got to the last page and put the manuscript down .
he got up and walked into the kitchen , opening the refrigerator getting something to drink .
he closed the refrigerator and went out of the kitchen , heading to the rear of the house .
he walked into casseys office , next to their bedroom .
manny stood watching cassey work at the computer , scanning pages into the machine .
got any more ?
manny asked .
cassey turned part way around , still working as she spoke .
whatd you think ?
you didnt change anything , it was that way , the story ?
i edited typing errors , some grammar , many spelling errors , but didnt change a thing .
wow !
manny said .
i dont know what to say .
i mean , im no expert either , except that i like to read and i appreciate a good book , but i am truly amazed .
billy really came up with something , huh ?
thats what im thinking , and it gets even better .
ive got two more chapters finished .
all right lady !
manny exclaimed .
the clock on the mantle read 2 58 a.m , the fire was out , and manny was still sitting , reading , when cassey walked into the room , stretched and yawned .
damn manny , you still at it ?
me , i dont see you turning in yet ?
im going to have to .
i wont be able to finish it until i get at least a little sleep .
you going in this morning ?
i dont know , how many more chapters you got ?
im through with chapter 26 , about ten more to go , but im getting bleary eyed .
anymore and ill start making too many mistakes .
pretty damn good huh ?
fabulous story , what an imagination .
billy sure knew how to put a story together .
im going to send this off to mark tainer as soon as youre done .
itll be interesting to see what a professional thinks .
i wonder if billy ever got a copyright for this story ?
cassey asked .
who would own it at this point ?
i have no idea , but i can check with slauson , our legal eagle , he should know how to find out .
i would imagine his closest relatives .
shit , wouldnt that be something , those buggers getting rich off billy after they treated him like that .
chapter 12 manny was sitting in the kitchen opening up a can of dog food , the phone cradled between his chin and shoulder , waiting .
george of the jungle , the andersons dog , was sitting patiently his tail swishing quietly on the tile floor .
george was a bigmultinationalas manny described him to people that asked .
hes one part afghan , one part irish wolfhound , one part german shepherd , and one part ugly , manny was fond of saying .
best damn dog ive ever known , he would also throw in .
george was more dedicated to cassey than manny , but that was to be expected because cassey took george with her everywhere she went .
george of the jungle wandered into the andersons back yard , years before , a scraggly , under nourished bag of bones that couldnt have been more than a few weeks old .
manny and cassey had no ideaat the timejust how big the dog was going to get .
yeah , this is manny anderson for mark tainer .
yes , i see .
no , thats all right , just leave a note that i called and that i sent him some material , and it should be arriving in the next couple of days .
no , its not unsolicited , he asked me to send it .
could you put on the note that i found the material to be fascinating .
yes , anderson , manny , no im not an author .
yes , thank you , have a nice day .
manny was dialing the phone again , watching george play in the snow outside .
it was a sunny , bright , winter wonderland out in the back yard , and george was racing around , running with his muzzle deep in the snow , looking like a big shaggy , four legged snow plow .
shit , i hope he remembers where everything is , that could hurt if he runs into something solid .
manny chuckled to cassey , as she walked up and looked out the window .
oh , look , its so pretty out there , she said , looking at manny looks great from where im standing , manny agreed .
im going skiing in a bit , want to join me ?
nah , its good for my heart and i promised myself to avoid those things .
you smuck , i go golfing with you .
you like to play golf , and i dont care to work at my skiing .
give me a big hill and ill be right there with you .
last time we down hilled , you couldnt walk for a week , cassey chuckled .
loved every minute of it though .
manny looked back outside .
thats it you big , dumb , dodo , enjoy yourself !
manny yelled at the dog .
george heard him through the glass and stopped , looking at manny attentively , snow covering his muzzle , his tail wagging furiously .
you knuckle head , you dont know any better do yeah ?
manny shouted at the dog .
i dont what ?
a man asked , suddenly on the other end of the phone line .
oh hello , manny responded .
oh sorry , i was talking to my dog .
dumb bugger doesnt have a care in the world , even likes playing in the snow .
can you imagine that ?
the snow can be fun , sometimes , i guess , the man on the other end returned .
spoken like a man in florida , manny laughed .
mr. walsh , my name is manny anderson and i would like to talk to you about vietnam .
if that would be okay ?
ah , do i know you ?
no , im sure you dont , but i promise , im not a reporter or anything like that .
i ya .
.
.im u for marines that possibly knew a friend of mine , and your name came up .
you were a marine lieutenant , feb. 1967 to june 67 , 2nd battalion 5th marines ?
yes , i was hotel company , 2nd platoon leader .
whats this about ?
i was wondering if you could spare me some time ?
im interested in finding out about a buddy of mine , he served with you .
what is his name ?
was , i attended his funeral a couple of weeks ago .
oh , im sorry , ah , i dont know what to say ?
you wouldnt mind ?
i dont see why not , what was his name ?
would it be any trouble if i came to you , minnesota is the shits this time of the year and i need an excuse to see florida .
i promise , this is on the up and up .
billy palmer is the name .
palmer ?
walsh was quiet for a long moment .
the name palmer doesnt ring any bells .
im sorry .
i hate to waste your time , its a long way to come for nothing .
were you in the service ?
no , but my son is .
you wouldnt be wasting my time , really .
do you play golf ?
oh yeah , golf and i have a lovehate relationship going .
ah , a comrade in arms .
ill spring for the golf , if you dont mind ?
i guess , come on down .
id be happy to meet with you , but ive got to warn you i take my golf serious .
wouldnt expect any less mr. walsh .
you can call me dan , seems were going to be golfing buddies .
chapter 13 a taxi pulled up to the club drop at an expensive looking golf course , and manny opened the passengers side rear door and stepped out into the warm florida sunshine .
manny had a big smile on his face as he breathed in the damp , warm air .
he headed toward the rear of the cab , meeting the driver there at the trunk .
you cant imagine how great this feels , manny said , stretching his arms out to take in the warmth of the sun .
come from someplace cold , i take it ?
the cabbie said friendly .
frostbite falls , minnesota , manny replied rocky and bullwinkle !
i thought that was a made up place , the cab driver replied .
it was an opportunity sorely missed , manny declared .
youd know what i mean , if youve ever been up there in the winter .
cutbank montana , the cabbie announced , youre not telling me anything i dont know .
i heard thats not the end of the world , but you can see it from there .
manny quipped , as the cab driver took the clubs out of the truck and handed them to manny .
every time i here that , i do think of good old cutbank .
enjoy the time you have in paradise , the driver said , as manny handed him a tip and nodded .
an average height man dressed in golf clothes was walking toward him .
could you be manny anderson , the famous minnesota golfer ?
the man asked .
that would be me .
well , weve got a hell of a day for it .
i hope you brought some talent .
dan walsh , he replied as he held out his hand to shake .
i had some before the snow banks swallowed my ball , manny returned , as they shook hands .
im probably a little rusty , but itll come around after a few holes .
i hope you dont mind me picking this place ?
its a little pricey , but a damn good course .
oh no , i was thrilled .
ive seen this place in the golf magazines and i dont mind paying for pleasures like this , manny said excitedly , as they headed up the sidewalk , bordered with deep green , luscious plants , topped with brilliant flowers standing three feet high .
thank you for seeing me .
i dont know if i can help you , it was a long time ago , and i have racked my brain and i still dont remember any palmer .
dan walsh held the door open to let manny through into a posh , expensive looking club house .
i guess you must be serious though , coming all this way and springing for a day here .
im on sort of a mission , and the telephone or email just isnt any fun , not like this anyway .
theyre convenient though .
not all the time .
a guy i know fell in love with a three hundred pound woman that passed herself off as quit the opposite .
i guess face to face has some security to it , dan agreed .
besides , what better way to spend a day ?
manny was all smiles as they entered the pro shop .
especially after what ive been enduring the last few weeks .
i was sorry to hear about your friend .
i have to admit though , its been a long time since ive really thought about vietnam .
time does heal the worst of wounds .
manny and dan walsh were out on the driving range warming up for the round .
manny was hitting , dan walsh watching .
you play a pretty good game of golf , huh manny ?
we havent got to the course yet .
oh , i can tell by the swing , youve been playing for a long time .
been playing since i was a kid .
played a lot with billy .
this billy palmer played golf ?
yeah , he was damn good .
he could usually beat me ?
imagine that .
i didnt take the game up until after i came back so i never thought about any of the guys being golfers .
you mentioned you had a son in the army , does he play ?
no , not much .
donny is a water skier and golf and water skiing dont mix .
the skiing pulls the arms and shoulders making them longer .
now dannymy other sonhe was serious about his golf so he didnt water ski , but donny loved to ski , so didnt take his golf seriously .
im not quite sure how to start , manny continued as he changed clubs from his bag .
im not sure if you want to go back .
it must have been a rough time ?
no , its okay .
it was a long time ago , and ive never had any real problems with it , just sad sometimes .
many guys suffered for the stupidity of the whole thing .
im kind of glad that the truth took as long as it did to really come out .
i had a chance to mellow , otherwise who knows how i would have felt , or done , if mcnamara had of admitted what he did within a couple of years after that fiasco .
well , im looking for guys that served with billy palmer ?
welsh looked at manny with a doubting expression , then leaned on his club with both arms , thinking for a while .
gosh , ive tried and tried , but the name just doesnt compute .
i was under the impression that you were in the duc duc area on june 13 , 1967 .
duc duc , yeah , that rings a bell .
ive got to tell you though , i dont recall any billy palmer .
um , june 13 , the 13th .
dan had a serious look on his face .
you know , the 13th was kind of a bad day .
yes , i understand that .
you were seriously wounded ?
yup , i was .
lost most of my men too , but there was no palmer , im sure of it .
maybe he was one of the guys that got to us ?
i think theres a good explanation why the name is unfamiliar , manny smiled , billy was a sniper .
dan walsh straightened up , abruptly , a surprised look on his face .
he was one of the shooters !
he exclaimed .
i dont know what you mean ?
the sniper team !
theyre the only reason im sitting here talking to you .
they saved our lives .
this palmer , billy ?
how did you trace him to me ?
you put him up for a medal .
yes , yes , i never found out his name though , the sniper teams didnt like to advertise .
i guess the nva were putting rewards on their heads .
billy palmerwowbilly palmer , he was the one huh ?
i saw him after it was all over .
just for a moment , when they were putting me on the chopper .
these two guys came up to look me over .
you could tell they werent regular jar heads .
they looked like they had been living in the jungle for months .
i didnt realize what had happened , until i was trying to explain it to a corpsman .
he said that a sniper team had been there and they had shot up the nva attacking us .
it was all a blur at first , but when i was in the hospital it all made sense .
do you know the name of the other guy , there were two of them ?
mark tainer , i just visited him up in new york .
i have his address and numbers if youd like .
hes the one that put me on to you .
hell yes !
this tainer , hes alive and well ?
yeah , hes alive and well enough to chew the shit out of me .
could you tell me about it what happened that day ?
oh gosh , let me think about it .
ah , im not sure if i can be all that accurate , but ill try .
ah , um , we were on a search and destroy , and my platoon was to circle around a village and set up a blocking force .
i was hoping that we wouldnt have any contact that day .
i had three brand new men , they didnt even have jungle boots yet .
jungle boots had treads , the regular issue boots had smooth bottoms and were a bitch in the slippery mud .
im not sure what happened , but we came out of the jungle on this trail , and all hell broke loose .
we were cut off .
lt. walsh screams at his men , as the incoming bullets tear into the ground and the edge of the jungle next to the path they are on .
some of his men are already hit , he can hear the screaming , but he has no idea how many , or how bad .
as he tries to reach his fallen comrades , the enemy fires ferociously into his position , the snapping bullets hurting his ears , shredding everything above the ground , violent geysers of mud and water everywhere .
the jungle they have just came out of is full of flashes , and he knows the only way to go is in the opposite direction if there is any hope of getting out of the ambush .
he cant believe that they walked right through the enemy like that without noticing anything .
he figures there must be at least twenty nva firing on him and his men .
he and his remaining men , five he can see , have gotten down behind the back of the trail , but they need to do something quickly .
he shouts to return fire , but the nose is deafening and he can see that all the men are pinned down .
the heavy incoming fire keeps them below the dike .
he knows they have to return fire and he pushes his m 16 up over the dike , keeping his head below cover and pulls the trigger .
it feels like ten thousand volts hits his hands .
he pulls his hands back down and realizes that the m 16 is gone and he is looking at blood .
he looks to his rear and realizes they are at the edge of a grassy hill and on top of the hill sits a small stone temple .
the small field is surrounded by jungle and grass covered hills .
the enemy fire slows , and he takes stock of his situation .
it is getting foggy and starting to rain heavy .
he calls to his men and only five respond with gestures only .
he senses that they are afraid , like he is and hesitant to reveal their positions by making noise .
he is uncertain on what to do .
he knows that if they stay where they are , the enemy can sneak right up to them , the dike affording them the cover .
he realizes , if the enemy moves up to the other side , they can just lob grenades over and it will be all over for him and his men .
lt. walsh takes one of his grenades , pulls the pin and throws it over the dike in the direction of the enemy .
he signals his closest man to do the same , then the next man in line to repeat the action .
he knows , that at most , his men are carrying two maybe three grenades each and this holding action can not last long .
he sees that his radio operator is still with him and he decides that if they can make the small temple a hundred feet out in the field , there might be a chance to call in artillery .
it is their only hope he decides .
he moves laterally to each of his men and instructs them of his plan .
he is not sure if they will respond to his commands and move out of the cover , but he decides to chance it .
he tells each man that it is their only choice , if they stay there , they will die .
he gives the signal and shouts , running hard and low .
the five marines , with their officer , take off running from the dike , turning , firing back into the jungle to the rear as they flee .
one marine goes down , hit as the enemy resumes firing at the retreating marines .
the rest continue to move toward the shelter of the stone temple .
another marine is hit , a third marine , the radio operator , stops and turns to help and is hit almost immediately .
only three marines remain , struggling up the slope .
the marine that was hit first is not out of action and has turned back toward the jungle , firing until the magazine in his rifle is empty .
he is fumbling around , trying to insert another fresh magazine , when a north vietnamese soldier appears at the edge of the dike .
the marine has the new magazine inserted and raises his m 16 to shoot .
there is a loud , snap , and the nvas head explodes and he is driven back into the jungle .
the marine starts shooting at the jungle , but the area around him erupts in sod , mud and grass chunks flung into the air obscuring him .
the three remaining marines are fifty yards from the temple , lt. wash hanging back a bit , looking back to his men that are down .
the nearest marine is lying in a mass of mud and blood , motionless .
sporadic shooting from the jungle is directed at the remaining three marines .
the three sometimes turn to return fire while trying to reach the temple , now only twenty feet ahead .
two nva appear at the edge of the dike , only showing their heads and shoulders and aiming their rifles at the fleeing marines .
there is another , snap , and one of the nva takes a bullet directly in the face , twitches a moment and is still .
the other enemy soldier doesnt realize what has happened to his comrade .
he aims at the retreating marines as they try to reach the temple .
a bullet strikes the ground between the second nvas arms , ricocheting up , blowing a hole in his chest .
he tries to stand up , but flops over sideways , rolling into the jungle .
the three remaining marines reach the temple , the last one , lt. walsh , is hit in the back , as the other two men jump behind the safety of the stone .
the lt. is flat on his face and trying to crawl , to get around to the safety of the temple .
one of his men reaches out and pulls him behind the stone .
a heavy barrage of small arms fire erupts from the jungle , directed at the stone .
the temple is obliterated by flying chips and the ground around it pulverized .
the marines behind the temple stay behind the stone , as a steady stream of bullets strike the stone and surrounding ground .
ten nva jump over the dike and start toward the temple , firing steadily to keep the marines pinned .
the nva move in a line up the hill , one aiming at the first marine that was hit earlier .
the enemy soldier is poised to shoot , when there is another loud , snap , and he flings his rifle out and spins around , going down hard .
his comrades either dont notice or are so intent that they just continue on , firing and progressing up the hill .
another , snap , and the nva , second from the right in the advancing line , jumps back , his legs flying out from under him and flops hard onto his back .
the nva soldier closest to him stops and looks confused .
another , snap , and this soldier takes a vicious hit in the upper torso that drives him back , violently .
he tries to get to his feet , his hands clamped to his chest , blood spurting through his fingers .
five more nva are on the dike , starting over .
a light automatic weapon fires a long burst from their left , three of the nva going down , the other two scrambling back into the protection of the jungle .
the lead nva out in the field , only fifty feet from the temple goes down to his one knee and fires a sustained rhythm of shots into the stone , keeping the marines pinned behind the cover .
two nva start to circle wide , to get a shot around the sides of the stone .
another , snap , and the nva that has moved to the right , grabs his chest , a look of bewilderment on his face .
he topples over as another nva runs up behind him , pulling at his shoulder , turning him around , a bright red splotch growing on his back and side .
the second nva is on one knee , looking around , when there is another , snap , and his face disappears in a cloud of bloody spray .
the nva that has been keeping the marines pinned , runs out of ammunition and feels frantically for a fresh magazine .
another loud , snap , is heard , the nva pitching back violently , a following boom coming from the grass covered hill , slightly to the right and beyond the small field the temple is in .
the five remaining nva are confused , looking around , uncertain what to do next .
they start toward the temple again , but their rate of fire has decreased .
one of the marines suddenly pokes his head and his m 16 out from behind the temple and fires a long burst at the nva , taking two of them out , and just as quickly disappearing back behind the stone .
one of the remaining nva , starts yelling , shooting , and running at the temple .
he gets about ten feet from the stone , when there is another loud , snap , and he appears to run into a brick wall , bouncing back , sitting down hard , and another , boom , resounding from the hill .
he looks startled and slowly tips over on his side , twitching , a stream of blood spurting out of his chest .
another marine pokes out from the temple to fire , but one of the nva is able to shoot first , hitting the marine in the upper chest , the marine going down hard and not moving .
the nva that did the shooting , starts toward the temple , firing paced shots into the stone to keep the two remaining marines back behind it .
the nva is five feet from getting around and getting a clear shot at the marines when another loud , snap , coincides with his head disintegrating .
the body tips forward , starting toward the ground , as another boom , emanates from the far jungle .
another nva rushes forward , and another , snap , signals his demise , the following boom , coming from the same location in the far off jungle .
the last remaining nva , the one to the left , runs toward the temple , reaching the side of it .
i was hit really bad , twice actually , and ellington was the only one left still able to fight .
walsh continued , almost out of breath .
i cant really remember exactly how it went , but ellington had gone around one of the sides .
im not sure left or right , and was banging it out with whoever .
screaming , fuckin take this , or something like that .
i was propped up on the back of the stone and turned in the opposite direction of ellington .
i had my forty five out with my good hand and had it stuck out in front of me .
i just remember this nva , all of a sudden , right there in front of me , that fuckin ak , and im looking right down the barrel .
i was trying to raise my forty five and this nva , just drops , i dont know ?
i was in bad shape , but i can remember this nva is hammered , or something like that .
one moment he is standing right there , ready to kill me , and the next he is down , and the only memory of that whole war , that really sticks out in my mind , is the ooof that guy made .
its not clear , but the next thing i know a corpsman is working on me .
i asked him what had happened and he said we were lucky as shit the shooters had been there ?
i made out the report and recommended whoever had saved our asses a medal , but i never got the names .
i guess the corps was reluctant to identify the snipers and i didnt press the issue .
ellington came to see me in the hospital he was the only one without a scratch , but he said he had a chunk out of one boot , a gash in his web belt , a magazine with a hole in it , and he was covered in c rations because two cans in his pack stopped bullets .
welsh stopped and thought for a moment .
how do you know it was your buddy palmer ?
how can you be sure ?
i just found out he received the silver star for the action you described .
just found out ?
i thought you were friends , how is that possible ?
billy never said anything about any medals to us .
never said anything about vietnam .
what can you say ?
dan said with a sound of reverence in his voice .
its not something that anyone can really understand , unless they can say , been there done that , experienced it .
i never figured that the guy , dan continued , that saved our lives enjoyed this game .
over there golf was so foreign , so alien to our thoughts .
we played football , basketball , baseball , pool , they even had a bowling alley in da nang , but golf was a totally exotic thing for me back then .
manny thoroughly enjoyed the day of golf with walsh .
usually an outing on the golf course took the edge off him and he could go on home , relax and get into bed early .
normally he could also relax in a motel room , but this evening he felt like getting out , traveling a little .
manny checked out , rented a car , and headed north , toward georgia .
he figured to rent a room someplace up there , then reschedule his flight the next day .
how does someone survive that kind of terror ?
manny contemplated as he drove down the highway , the story walsh had told him still fresh in his mind .
how can they continue to function after something like that ?
manny was again going over the story dan walsh had told him .
christ , id fold up , i know i would , manny said to himself .
i dont know how else id get through something so intense .
what does it take to operate in chaos like that ?
the intensity of the narration by the ex marine lieutenant had stimulated something in manny .
he had seen all the new war movies , the stark reality of saving private ryan had moved him , but hearing the details from someone that had experienced something so terrifying and raw , left manny with a feeling of being left out .
no wonder he never said anything to us about the war .
how the hell could he have explained something like that to a bunch of spoiled children like us ?
he entered the state of georgia as it got dark , the full moon just rising up from the horizon .
manny left the main highway , opting for the back roads sometime around midnight .
the full moon was at its zenith in the night sky , bathing the highway and surrounding landscape with its soft white light .
he drove until he came to a long skinny lake , surrounded by trees and small hills .
the lakes surface gleamed silver in the moonlight .
he turned off onto a small paved road , heading away from the water , heading deeper into the surrounding forest .
the road meandered up a valley flanked by large trees and thick brush .
he rounded a corner and pulled off into a small overlook on the right side of the road .
the ground dropped away from the road .
manny was tired of driving and stopped the car .
the heavy growth along both sides of the road looked almost impenetrable .
he wasnt sure what he was looking for as he got out of the car and walked over to the thick vegetation .
he parted the first layer , a tangle of bushes under the large trees that spread their branches over the road .
there was enough of the moons light filtering through the trees for manny to see a little and he stepped from the road into the forest .
manny crashed through the thick undergrowth for a few feet and was ready to turn around when he came to a break in the foliage .
it wasnt much , but appeared to be a game trail .
manny still had to walk bent over to take advantage of the trail as he continued on .
the trail moved off to the left , gradually descending the hill .
a hundred feet ahead , the trail reached the bottom of the slope and started gradually up the next hill .
the vegetation on the next hill was a little less dense because the many large trees shielded the ground from direct sunlight .
part way up the slope , manny came to a rock cap , an outcrop of granite forming a large bald spot in the ever encompassing vegetation .
manny detoured a little left , going up the smooth rock .
the climbing was harder , the angle was slightly steeper and it was difficult getting solid footing .
the smooth cap was coated with a thin film of tiny grains of sand .
manny climbed the outcrop to where it dove back into the earth , and the vegetation took over again .
there were larger trees here , the undergrowth less dense , and manny could see some large rocks protruding up on the crest of the hill .
manny found a small nitch near the crest of the hill , a spot two feet square , under a large spreading tree .
large rocks standing high behind him formed the top of the hill .
from there he could see down the slope to the front , but his sides and rear were protected by the rocks .
manny made himself comfortable in the rocks , the cold , damp night air surrounding him .
what if they were coming for me here , what could i do ?
how could i save myself ?
what do i know ?
he said out loud .
nothing you smuck .
youre a retail exec , not a lot of experience with anything that counts , now .
youre damn lucky you live in such a placid environment , otherwise you would be toast .
manny huddled under the tree , his knees pulled up tight to his chest , his arms wrapped around his legs , looking out into the moonlight , thinking .
i wonder if my bow would be any good here ?
i could probably get a couple of them .
is that what a soldier thinks ?
im not going to make it , so what the hell , im going to take as many as i can with me ?
is that what being brave is all about ?
is that what makes a person charge certain death , being angry about being there ?
what causes the line to be crossed from scared to angry .
i wonder if i would handle it or not ?
manny contemplated the problem and fantasied about making his stand until he got cold and returned to his car .
chapter 14 hello manny , i didnt expect to see you so soon , mark tainer said , walking into the reception area of his office .
i hope im not infringing on you , manny said defensively , as he rose up to greet the man , but im headed home from florida and i decided to swing by here to see if maybe you had just a little time ?
got a little this morning , whats on your mind ?
tainer said , heading into his office , manny following .
i met with the lieutenant of that platoon you and billy saved .
all in a days work manny , have a seat .
what did he have to say ?
he hasnt called you , i gave him your number ?
ive got a pile of messages here on my desk , what was his name ?
dan walsh .
walsh .
.
.let me see , yeah , here it is .
ill try to get back to him later on this week , but right now im swamped .
did you get the book i overnighted , the one billy wrote , timtown ?
yeah i did , tainer hesitated , apparently his mind was on something else , but to tell you the truth , i havent gotten to it yet .
i sent it to one of my readers , i should hear back after the holidays .
i thought you would look at it ?
oh , i will , but i get someone else to clean it up first .
ah , you know , my wife did that already .
i mean cleaned up by a professional .
i get so strapped for time , i cant get involved in editing .
the better it gets to my desk , the more apt i am to give it the attention it deserves .
im envious of billy for finding the time , somewhere , to write anything .
i think ive got some great stories , but i dont have the time to put them down .
can you imagine that ?
oh , its just that my wife is so thrilled about it , she just cant wait to hear back from you .
manny was a little miffed about the professional remark because it was a personal affront to cassey who he considered intellectually superior to most anybody , but thought better of mentioning it .
when you do get around to it , just call her okay ?
ive been taking a lot of time on this thing with billy , and now cassey is getting involved , and the book is her end of the deal .
i understand manny , as soon as i can get to it , i will call her .
thanks , i appreciate that .
look , i know youre busy , so ill get going .
i just wanted to say thanks , the talk with lieutenant walsh was eye opening .
you and billy were really heroes and you certainly deserved the medals .
im curious though , who was doing the shooting from the hill , you or billy ?
it was me from the position up on the hill .
i dont know what happened to billy .
we saw what was going down , and billy took off , down the hill , toward the ambush .
he must have gotten in close , im sure .
after the choppers left , it took him half an hour to reload all the magazines he had emptied .
wow , i cant even imagine something so intense .
how did you keep from crapping in your pants ?
who said i didnt ?
tainer smiled .
manny just nodded , appreciating the admission .
i got to the wall , he added .
what did you think ?
it was devastating after i figured it all out .
anyone that has any doubts about that war , needs to go through the experience .
what did it tell you ?
how utterly ridiculous it was to stay there and just keep on throwing away all those lives , for nothing .
how the hell could something like that happen ?
like i told you before , vietnam was a research and development policy that was okay , except the costs were way to high and no one knew when to end it .
vietnam was an engineers delight , look at what they learned about helicopters .
the latest generation of them are a direct yield of what they learned in that war .
shit , cant they find another way to test their theories ?
if youve got questions about how well something is going to work , or if it will at all , theres no substitute for the real thing .
theyre still doing it .
look at iraq and afghanistan .
the military needs to test .
no better place than to find a dictator to kick around now and then , keeps everybody sharp .
vietnam taught us that .
before you send in the troops , demoralize the opposition .
when the first of your troops arrive , you want the enemy to be looking forward to having them there , to surrender to , not to fight .
i guess .
the present day special forces operational manuals were written back in vietnam .
we were operating independently and learning as we went .
what we passed on to them and what they have learned in addition make them extremely proficient .
they owe a lot to a guy like billy , an independent thinker like he was .
there were others too .
did i tell you about obrien yet ?
no .
millard obrien , aka bat obrien , outhouse junction , tennessee .
outhouse ?
manny laughed .
yeah , thats what bat claimed .
he said he lived where nobody had any maps yet .
i could believe it as back woods as he was .
he was skinny , about five foot four , a hundred and twenty pounds soaking wet .
homely as hell , red hair , freckles , big ass ears that stuck straight out to the side , thats where he got the moniker bat .
bat was the result of cousins with cousins , going way back , im sure , but , bat obrien could hit a fly at a hundred yards .
we were all good shots , but he was way beyond us .
he was the ultimate hunter .
sometimes hed stay out for three weeks , living on the land .
he used to wear the uniforms of the guys he bagged .
thats creepy !
manny said .
that was bat all right .
he wouldnt swear either , claimed god dont like cussin !
i asked him about his lust for killing one time , and he told me he was just doing gods work , cleansing the kingdom of them heathens .
it got to the point that the other guys didnt want to go out with him , hed stay too long , so he went by himself .
bat was in country way before we were .
billy went out with him a couple of times when we first got there , to learn the ropes , he said .
after we had been there , like eight months , bat never came back this one time , but i find it hard to believe the vc got him .
i think hes still out there to tell you the truth .
anyway , whenever he was in the rear this major from intelligence would come down immediately to see bat .
this major had a standing request to be called whenever bat showed up , and he would sit and listen to bat for hours , taking all these notes .
you ever wonder who killed kennedy ?
tainer continued .
jfk or rfk ?
john , who really shot him ?
i guess oswald ?
according to the warren commission ?
mark asked , a cynical smile on his face .
thats what we were told .
ah , duped , just like it was your duty as an american .
ive heard other theories , you can shed some light on this ?
when we got to sniper school they said they were going to teach us to shoot like lee harvey oswald .
it was the first time i ever thought about what really happened to kennedy , who actually did the shooting .
the instructors were being facetious of course .
it would have been impossible for oswald to have fired so fast and so accurate with the rifle they found .
they were trying to impress upon us that the kennedy assassination was a conspiracy .
no shit , oswald really didnt do it ?
not all by himself he didnt .
of course the truth would have really shook the government up , at that time .
kennedy wanted to stay out of vietnam , others didnt .
i can still remember that day , but it wasnt until sniper school that i started to question policies .
you wouldnt believe how stupid the system can get .
i can remember the time , tainer continued , we got this asshole sergeant in our unit .
sergeant schnelling , what a rube , a real lifer .
i dont know how the hell we ended up with him , but we did .
he was an admin clown and i guess they decided that we needed to keep some records and so there he was .
i think he had been in the crotch like 18 years , and already a sergeant , a real bozo .
he is there like two days and already we couldnt stand him .
billy and i were just corporals at the time , so he outranked us and he immediately started to push his weight around .
he had it to , big fuckin beer belly , smoked like a chimney , lived for coffee and smokes .
so anyway here comes sergeant dildo , as billy called him , and he is all spit and polish .
weve got guys living in this hooch when were in base camp , out of the field .
we spend all this time out and clean uniforms and polished boots are not our priority , considering that out in the field we tried to blend in , which means looking ratty as hell .
old sergeant suck up goes to the head quarters company commander and complains that the s 2 bunch , scout snipers , thats us , are a disgrace and he intends to do something about it .
the company commander comes over to our hooch to check us out .
billy explains that the time we spent in the rear is not for spit and polish , but for training the new guys and things like that .
this major knows about us and kind of agrees .
we dont stand company formations because not our ratty asses tarnish the clean and disciplined ranks , but schnelling demands that we be present for the company inspection that afternoon .
so here we are , standing at attention , dirty as shit , no new uniforms or anything like that , and some flunky officer wanting us to present arms .
hell , i couldnt even remember how it went .
billy never did come to attention .
hes standing there , leaning on his m 16 and when this officer gets to him , billy hands the officer the rifle , butt first .
this is a green lewy and he doesnt know what to do and just gives billy the m 16 back and goes to the next guy .
heres all these office weenies looking like theyre ready to march in a parade and at one end , eight guys looking like skid row bums .
we made no attempt whatsoever to clean up .
we never wore covers , hats , our longer shaggy hair blended in better in the bush and we seldom shaved .
schnelling didnt say anything to us before the inspection .
i guess he figured that were going to catch shit for the way we looked .
so , sergeant dildo is standing there prim and proper , with a smirk on his face when the inspecting officer gets to him .
old sarg does a beautiful present arms , the lieutenant snaps the m 16 crisply from him , pulls the bolt actuator back and it just falls back loose .
billy had taken the bolt out of the idiots rifle and closed the dust cover .
so heres sergeant schnelling with this god awful look on his face , and billy , myself and a couple of the other guys laying in the dust holding our guts , laughing like crazy .
the inspection kind of fell apart at that point .
so , the company commander , this major called us into his office .
we didnt know what to expect , but this major was trying to be stern , to preserve discipline he said , but you could tell the whole time he was close to busting out laughing .
schnelling , the idiot that he was , decides that he needs to get some combat time .
it looks good on your record for promotions .
he plans this little patrol and gets the okay from the company commander .
billy goes to the major and tries to talk him out of letting schnelling go into the field , but the major says that it isnt a long one , just out to a couple of villages and then back , so what can go wrong ?
billy wasnt too happy , but we were stuck .
schnelling plans this little foray and he keeps it short because i know hes scared .
its about two clicks out and then right back .
were not too worried about the vc , we know these two villages and theyre too close to the fire base for anything but a couple of local vc .
we take two shooters , knowing the sniper rifles will make anyone out there think twice about taking a shot at us .
weve got a couple of new guys and billy and i want to familiarize them with what to look for , that sort of thing .
we go out to the first village and then turn .
schnelling had made this over lay for the artillery base , with fire coordinates preset .
he actually did a good job .
so the point , this guy lujak , with one of the new guys comes to the trail running off to the right .
he sees that the villagers have been walking down off the trail and he informs the new guy , cant remember his name , that the trail is more than likely booby trapped .
schnelling sees the point go off the trail and starts yelling .
if there is any way to get a guy thats used to quiet and covert , pissed , its some fuckin idiot making too much noise .
schnelling wont settle down about his orders not being followed , and i was worried that billy might end up shooting him .
the c.o .
had warned us that if anything happened to schnelling , he was damn sure going to find out why ?
i finally got the dumb fuck to shut up by the time billy came up from the rear to see what the hell the problem was .
schnelling was incensed that the point guys had deviated from his well laid plans .
lujak came back and told us why , so billy told him to go back up and proceed with caution .
sergeant dildo starts arguing again , and i cant believe it .
hes yelling at billy about how he out ranks him and its his patrol so we do what he says .
billy tells him to shut the fuck up , that hes broadcasting our position .
im trying to explain to the dumb fuck why we dont walk down trails that all the locals avoid , and he pulls his forty five out and starts yelling about court martials and shooting people for disobeying orders .
i mean , here were are , seven guys out in the fuckin sticks and this asshole you can hear for miles .
at that point , i know billys going to shoot him , i just know it for sure , but stanton , one of the guys that had been with us for a while , steps in and kicks the sergeant right in the balls .
i mean , lifted him right off the ground .
shut him up and saved his ass !
the dumb fuck pressed charges , as soon as we get back .
this is some serious shit , disobeying an order in combat .
some asshole from the judge advocates office comes looking for heads to bash .
billy , myself , and lujak are named in the court martial .
i guess schnelling was grateful to stanton and didnt include him in the charges .
we all have to fill out this report .
theyve got mps standing over us and everything .
two of the line company commanders saved our asses .
we had a good record with them and they pointed out the ridiculous actions of the sergeant to the guy from the jag .
they sent the sergeant somewhere where he couldnt cause any more problems , i guess .
the battalion base commander , a colonel , said that all the rigmarole with the jag made him look bad , and that from that point on , we , the snipers , would be dressed according to the uniform of the day while on his post .
the next day , were playing football on the parade ground , and this colonel sees us out there , running around in cut off utility shorts , and no shirts , but we had all shaved .
he comes rushing over and starts babbling about how we are disobeying a direct order , we are out of uniform .
billys talking to him , explaining that its ninety five degrees with ninety percent humidity , and that full uniforms would be pretty silly , especially when the uniform of the day is not required for any sports or calisthenics .
the colonel comes unglued and starts yelling at billy , dressing him down as a malcontent .
billy doesnt say anything until this guy finally burns himself out .
the next day billy organizes the football game again , but this time were out there in shirts , long pants , boots , the uniform of the day .
we were wondering whats up ?
we didnt feel like playing football in the heat dressed like that , but billy said to just do it , it would be worth it .
we knew he was up to something so we went along .
the colonels tent and private privy were down at the end of the field .
were playing football , sweating like pigs and the colonel comes by and tells us he appreciates our trying to conform , that its essential for everyone 's moral .
that we are all the same here in camp , no one is special .
he struts off and goes into his private john .
this private privy is about the size of a toilet stall and its closed off with canvas .
it had this big ass water tank over it for flushing .
there was a pull rope attached to a check valve up on the tank to allow only a little water to come out , just enough to flush the toilet .
the colonel goes in and we just keep on playing football .
billys got this big smirk on his face , and we havent got the slightest inkling why .
all of a sudden , we hear this shouting and swearing coming from the colonels privy and then water coming out of the bottom of the canvas .
next thing we know , the flap flies open and the colonel , with his pants down around his ankles , comes stumbling out , falling flat on his face in the mud , his white ass sticking up , covered with shit .
his orderly rushes up and tries to help him up , but the colonel is all twisted in his trousers and having a tirade .
we figure it was a good time to skedaddle , but billy said bullshit , were playing football and he wasnt about to miss any of this .
it took a few minutes for the colonel to get straightened out , but he was still covered with mud and swearing .
most of the camp was there by now and everyone was standing watching , except us , we just went on with our game , not paying any attention .
it was real obvious that we probably had something to do with it .
they checked the privy , and it seems that someone had removed the check valve return spring from the overhead water tank , so instead of just a measured amount of water coming down to flush his toilet , the whole tank empty itself while the colonel was still sitting on the pot .
a big stink was brewing , the colonel was going to try and arrest all of us , but an mp major came from da nang .
he was called to investigate an attempt to jeopardized the colonels well being , but after he researched the incident , he came to the conclusion that an enema was not life threatening .
the colonel said that , tomorrow , the whole bunch of us would be sorry , but in the morning there wasnt a sniper to be found .
we all slipped out that night .
we gradually came back after about a week , a team at a time , but the thing had blown over .
the colonel had tried to get somebody higher up to take his humiliation seriously , but we heard all he got was a bunch of snickers when the story got around .
the commander of the sniper school , a two star , personally came and calmed him down , said boys will be boys , or something to that effect .
that colonel , was still giving us dirty looks , till the day i left .
one of billys favorites was messing with fresh officers .
back in the rear , around da nang , it was still customary to salute , sometimes .
we never did of course , hell we never wore rank , so nobody knew if we were officers , or enlisted .
billy would walk by officers , and just when wed get abreast , hed shout , good morning , or good afternoon sir , whatever was appropriate and just keep on walking .
the officers would spin around to accept the acknowledgment , and get our backs as we were walking away .
you wouldnt believe it , but some of those idiots would try to make an issue out of it .
it was hilarious , some boy wonder trying to get the mps to charge us with insubordination or some stupid thing , and the mps trying to explain , to this guy , that there was really nothing they could do , considering who we were .
anytime there was a beef the normal thing was to go to a marines commanding officer , but that didnt really apply to us .
the head of the mps in da nang personally requested that we cut the crap because he had more important issues than officers being insulted .
billy and i would go into da nang , once in a while with captured gear .
for two ak 47s we could get a pallet of beer delivered to the base .
one ak for the beer and one for the delivery .
thats a lot of beer , manny commented .
i have no idea .
we were never there , warm falstaff was not our idea of a good time .
billy joked he was spoiled because minnesotans always had cold beer .
aside from the screwing around , billy was a good teacher and he really went out of his way with new guys .
we lost a couple in the first month due to stupid mistakes , and from then on billy worked hard to familiarize everyone with what to expect .
he had this exercise called blind mans bluff .
did he ever tell you about it ?
no , never heard of it ?
billy used it to get new guys mellowed out about being out in the jungle , alone .
when youre out there waiting is what you do most of the time .
it can get really boring and your mind can wander .
if somebodys inexperienced the idle time can get them to thinking about the wrong thing , so billy devised ways to focus .
one was blind mans bluff .
you would start just before dawn and pretend you were blind , which wasnt far from the truth .
in the jungle its so dark you cant see a thing , your eyes are worthless , and so you must use the other senses .
it is not the kind of situation that you can afford to be out of touch with your surroundings .
you would concentrate on the other senses , and it is incredible what you can hear , smell , feel , if you cant see anything .
as it starts to get light you concentrate on combining the new sense , sight , and the others .
it works , it focuses your mind to your surroundings .
many of the guys would be uptight until they practiced this a couple of times .
you do the opposite in the evening .
i still practice it when im burned out or stressed .
you should try it .
of course now it would be irrelevant , mark tainer laughed .
i went to the va for a complete physical a couple of years ago and they told me my eyes are still pretty good , but not like they used to be .
my night vision is terrible , and my hearing isnt worth a shit .
i wouldnt last a day in that environment now .
i couldnt sneak up on a blind man anymore .
i cant imagine you guys being so calm about what you were doing , id be a wreck , manny said .
you needed a philosophy to stay sane and efficient .
mine was that the enemy was better off not knowing we were there , then we didnt have to kill them .
i remember one time we had stumbled into a bunker complex without them knowing it .
fuckin nva all over the place .
we were a little surprised too .
we had a hell of a time getting back out without being discovered .
at one point i was about ten feet from this nva and he was looking right at me , but didnt see me in the foliage .
i kept thinking , buddy , dont screw up and spot me , or youre dead .
you never got scared ?
sure i was scared , but i did what i had to do , thats all .
i dont remember billy ever really sweating the missions though , except his door gunner stint .
we got to know some of the pilots and one said we could serve a rotation as a door gunner on his huey gun ship .
billy went first , he was excited about not having to be on the ground .
i guess it was a little unnerving because when he got back , he recommended that i forget the whole thing .
i believed him and didnt take my turn .
he said that they would fly six or seven missions a day and that made the odds look bad .
he was sitting on the skids , one day , with an ammo box full of sandwiches between his knees .
when he looked down the box was gone and there was a hole in the floor .
theyd come back from missions and the ship would be full of holes .
they got shot down one time and he said it was not a very safe way to fight a war , they made too good a target .
mark got a call and told manny that he had business .
manny said he too had to hit the road because he had made plans to visit billys mother next .
tainer said to call anytime .
chapter 15 i hope im not disturbing you mrs. palmer ?
manny apologized , as billys mother welcomed him into her home .
oh no , it was nice of you to come see me , i dont get many visitors anymore , not since my husband died .
gwen is so far away , down there in texas , and kris is always working so hard he never gets any time to spend with his own mother .
you still up there in red pine ?
yes , its still a great place to live , except the winters are getting tougher to accept .
of course i can get away much more now .
thats nice .
i went to texas for christmas once , but it was just too hard on me , all that traveling and the cost .
my word , i cant believe how much it was , over three hundred dollars , just to go to texas and back .
that must have been some time ago mrs. palmer ?
yes , it was the year after my husband died .
he never wanted to go see gwen .
i can tolerate her new husband , but my husband just couldnt overlook other peoples faults .
tom has always been a heck of a good person mrs. palmer , i cant see why your husband wouldve had a problem there ?
oh , he was much too critical of peoples imperfections .
if they didnt come up to his standards , he wouldnt have a thing to do with them .
i always got along with him .
you were young , so he could overlook your faults .
when he figured you were a man though , then you had to straighten up .
he didnt give billy the same consideration , if i remember correctly .
billy got a roof over his head and meals on the table .
that was a lot more than my husband got from his father , i can tell you that .
i guess , mrs. palmer , but the reason i stopped was to see if you had anything of billys that pertained to vietnam ?
no , there wasnt anything that i remember .
billy didnt bring anything back .
no letters , or cards , anything that he might have sent you ?
no nothing , he didnt send anything .
those vietnam bums got away with everything .
my husband was in wwii and those were real soldiers , not like those pot heads they sent over there .
they lost that war .
our government gave them the best guns and all those fancy planes , and they still lost .
my husband said a monkey could have won that war , with all that stuff they got .
smoked too much pot to do anything right .
i dont remember billy smoking any pot .
oh , you werent his mother , i know .
but , mrs. palmer , i was billys best friend and we drank beer , maybe some hard stuff , but i dont remember any marijuana until after he was back from the war .
dont tell a mother she doesnt know about whats going on with her boys , she knows .
it must have been hard for you , having him there and not knowing what to expect .
billy didnt care what i went through , none of those nam vets gave a darn about anything but their drugs .
look at that campbell .
guy didnt care about anything , but getting high , put gwen through hell .
but , mrs. palmer , in all fairness , billy and john campbell were very different people .
no , they werent !
they were peas in a pod , those two , both the same .
never cared about anything but themselves .
going from woman to woman , just messing everybodys lives up .
gee , i dont remember billy being much of a womanizer mrs. palmer .
oh , he had all those girlfriends , all the time .
he was going from one to the other .
my husband told me a lot , let me tell you .
he knew what billy was up to .
i wasnt in the dark about billys shenanigans , no sireey , a mother knows .
billy was just friends with those girls .
he was like a brother to most of the girls we knew .
nope , a man dont hang around with a women to be her friend .
mrs. palmer , i think youre wrong about that .
im not wrong manny anderson .
youre just sticking your head in the sand .
i didnt want to say anything , but billy was trying to steal your girlfriend too .
my girlfriend ?
yes , your girlfriend , the pretty blond that was always hanging on billy .
you mean cassey miller ?
yeah , thats the one .
didnt you two get married ?
yes , we did ?
there you go , her and billy were going on behind your back and you didnt even know .
see a mother knows .
my husband told me everything .
well , im sorry to inform you that youve got it all wrong .
im the one that stole billys girlfriend .
it was the other way around , mrs. palmer .
oh pooh , billy had so many girlfriends , one didnt make any difference to him .
he fooled around so much that he never got married , or had any kids .
if it hadnt been for kris , i would have never had any grandchildren .
billy didnt care about me .
he didnt care when i had to see those men in uniforms coming to my door , scaring me like that !
i dont think you can blame that on billy .
he was the one doing the drugs , getting hurt because he was high all the time , and i was the one that had the uniforms coming to my door .
they even stopped at the neighbors once because they couldnt find my house .
walked right up to the door where his sister was babysitting .
poor thing called me .
now , do you think that was something that a good son and brother would have done ?
no , but you see billy only cared about himself .
mrs. palmer , he was fighting a war , he wasnt getting if they were so busy fighting a war , as you say , how come they lost it , huh , how come ?
its a long story that im working on .
oh pish posh .
i was a young girl when they won wwii , and ill tell you they didnt play around then .
my husband was a sailor in that one , and i can tell you those were real fighting men .
my husband never put his mother through what billy did to me .
your husband was never wounded ?
no , they were real fighting men , like i told you , and they never fooled around with drugs , got the job done .
you know he told me all about it .
he told me why those guys in vietnam couldnt win .
all drugged out , chasing after those oriental whores , not doing their jobs and then coming back here , and expecting everything given to them .
no sireey , they didnt deserve anything .
if that war had of gone any longer , kris was going to go to canada .
now there is a fine boy , a good son .
you know we tried to help billy when he got back , his father and i , but he refused .
what do you do then ?
tried to help him , how ?
well , first he needed to be cleansed of his sins , to make a fresh start .
our pastor was going to re baptize him so he would be free from the sins he committed in that godforsaken place .
he needed to admit to his sins and then only then could he be free .
i didnt know your family was religious .
my husband said that was what billy needed to do .
i see , you expected him to be a spectacle in front of your church ?
thats what he needed ?
to make a fresh start , yes .
he figured that life just went on , like he had done nothing wrong .
well , he was wrong wasnt he , he proved that .
he never amounted to anything and it was his own fault .
before my husband died , he told me he was so disappointed his first son never amounted to anything .
he was so happy there was kris , kris made up for billy .
im sorry that you understand so little .
did you know that your son was a hero ?
ive just visited with a man that confirmed it .
a hero you say .
sneaking around , shooting people in the back .
my husband found out what he did over there and ill tell you it was despicable .
my husband said that in wwii they shot those guys right away .
the other sides , im sure they did .
my husband said nobody liked those guys , so secretive and all that .
that was just like billy when he got back , never saying anything , just watching .
ill tell you , we didnt trust him .
never know when those guys could explode .
use to worry my husband a lot .
we had gwen and kris to worry about .
couldnt have billy going off and hurting them .
i remember billy being really good to those kids .
i know some of kriss friends really liked billy , he watched out for all of them well , my husband and i would have never let billy hurt any of those kids .
im telling you , he would have never hurt anybody , you didnt have to worry , mrs. palmer .
manny was angry because we didnt let him !
arent you listening to me manny anderson , you need to remember , a mother knows .
oh , im listening , but im not believing what im hearing .
i think ill just go mrs. palmer .
have a nice day .
chapter 16 mr. ted gannet , my name is manny anderson , and i understand that you knew a bill palmer ?
manny asked into the telephone in his kitchen , back home again .
name doesnt ring a bell , offhand , gannet answered .
i have information that says a william , billy palmer worked for you in the middle eighties .
like i said , i dont recall im not an investigator for anyone , mr. gannet .
im simply looking for information about somebodys life , and your name came up .
i am not out to hurt anyone .
how do i know that ?
i can give you my number , and you call here .
youll see that im nothing more than a retail exec .
if you were up to no good that would be an excellent cover , now wouldnt it mr. , what was the name you used ?
manny anderson and its my real name .
billy was an old friend .
where did you say you were calling from ?
red pine minnesota .
this palmer character from there too ?
yes , he was .
well , i remember palmer telling me he was from some small minnesota town , red something , so i guess you could have known him .
you did know him then ?
yeah , i knew him , gannet responded .
mr. gannet , if you dont mind , id like to come down to tucson and speak with you in person .
whatre you trying to get on palmer ?
has he done anything ?
no , mr. gannet , he died recently , and im trying to put his life back together .
hes dead ?
oh , im sorry to hear that , gannet sounded sad .
yeah , we were close friends once and i made the mistake of losing that friendship out of negligence .
i guess im trying to make amends .
and , a little late for that , wouldnt you say old friend of his , gannet added sternly .
yes , i know .
minnesota huh ?
gannet sounded friendlier .
got to be damn cold today .
its a lot nicer here in tucson , im sure .
are you a mind reader mr. gannet ?
call me ted , and mr. anderson , it doesnt take a clairvoyant to suspect the reason you want to come here .
i grew up in grand forks n. dakota .
you figured me out thats for sure , and call me manny .
you a golfer ted ?
i play some .
so the visit to see billys mother was a bust , huh ?
cassey asked , sitting at the kitchen table eating hot soup .
man , is she batty , manny answered , cradling a hot mug in his hands .
shes convinced that billy tried to steal you from me , and that kris was a good kid .
kris , that screw off , and talk about a druggy , cassey said .
no shit !
shes convinced that billy was a terrible womanizer , and kris was a saint .
i never really knew her , or his dad , billy didnt spend too much time there , cassey returned .
they were nicey nice to me , phony , made me uncomfortable .
billys dad really pulled one on him once .
billy had gotten his license and asked to use his mothers car so we could go to a show .
he had made arrangements for saturday night and he was picking me up at seven .
it was our first car date .
for two years we had to walk everywhere .
half an hour before billy was going to pick me up , his dad took the car .
his dad never used that car , only his mother drove it .
poor billy had to call and tell me we were back to walking .
about a month later his dad asked billy if he wanted to use the car to take me out ?
billy said okay , told his dad saturday night would be great .
saturday night came and billys dad was at home , figuring to do the same thing , but he didnt realize billy had outsmarted him and never intended to use the car .
we came and picked billy up before his dad pulled his stunt .
man , was his father pissed .
i couldnt believe a father could be such a jerk .
they were okay to me when we were kids , manny said , but they sure werent pro billy .
i realized that a long time ago .
and talking to his mother this morning , youd think she was describing attila the hun .
you wonder about people like that , what makes them tick ?
then you realize youd have to spend time with them to find out , and all of a sudden the need to know is not so important anymore .
manny , youre such a pragmatic , scatter brained , character .
is that a compliment , or a hint ?
its a praise darling .
id hate to see you chance , any other manny might not be as interesting .
im going to see donny out in utah .
yeah , he told me .
you dont want to go ?
nah , hell be here with danny in three more weeks for the holidays .
itll be great to see them both together again .
yeah , im looking forward to everyone being together .
we sure are lucky , all this billy stuff has made me realize how important a close , loving family can be .
a simple little thing like being there for each other makes such a difference .
i hope it will always be like that manny , cassey said , snuggling up to manny i couldnt imagine anything that could change it my love , manny said , holding her tight .
i found a guy that billy worked for in tucson arizona .
ted gannet , gannet construction , and hes agreed to meet with me .
after donny , ill swing down and then back home for the holidays .
nothing from mark tainer about timtown ?
cassey questioned .
nah , i guess hes too busy right now .
curious , i mean , wasnt billy important to him ?
cassey , hes got a business to run .
he said he hasnt even got the time to write anything himself .
he said he would get back to us after the holidays .
chapter 17 cheryl crow was rocking on the juke box , singing about sunshine somewhere , while manny was sitting in a dimly lit restaurant .
he was in the back of the establishment , and the patrons were mostly soldiers .
there was anything but sunshine out the window .
the mountains in the near distance were cut horizontally by a solid gray line of heavy clouds .
manny was talking with one of the soldiers , a good looking blond boy .
mom says you are on some sort of quest ?
the soldier asked .
did she say anything about it ?
no , not much .
just , youre trying to find out about a guy you both knew .
yeah , billy palmer .
who was he ?
a guy we grew up with .
he went to vietnam .
did he get back ?
yeah , but thats where his problems started .
he did his thing , and we never appreciated him for it .
what was he in ?
the marines , he was a sniper .
whoa , tough dude .
you know about those guys ?
oh yeah , around here we get the noise .
you think youre tough , try that on for size , etc. , things like that .
theres a group of snipers here in camp , and i kind of know one of the guys because hes from minnesota , and weve talked .
you should talk to him .
i can check it out if you want ?
you think theyd talk to me ?
cant hurt to try .
ill look him up tonight when i get back to base , and see what he says .
id appreciate that .
how they treating you here ?
good , the training is intense , but i guess its for a reason .
never know when we might need to be sharp .
to protect our way of life , huh ?
damn right pop , the other side doesnt believe in cheerleaders .
can you imagine life without pretty girls in short skirts .
no , i cant even begin to imagine that , manny said smiling , thinking back to his school days , and pretty cassey out there cheering everyone on .
the next morning manny was back in the same place , but this time in one of the booths toward the front , eating breakfast .
however , this morning there is a little bit of sun shining outside , the solid overcast from the day before had dissipated , giving way to scattered clouds .
his son donny walked through the door with another soldier and headed toward manny .
this one is older .
dad , this is the minnesota guy i told you about , staff sergeant baylor , donny said as they took the seat across from manny .
he got interested when i mentioned you knew a marine sniper from vietnam .
they idolize those guys .
yes , sir , we do , sir .
im staff sergeant baylor , special ops , nice to meet you .
youre from red pine ?
yes , manny anderson .
manny shook his hand .
the sergeant was a tall thin guy , but he looked in great shape , the muscles on his arms were impressive .
my son tells me youre from minnesota too .
from the big city , minneapolis , but i go hunting up in your neck of the woods , beautiful country .
only in the summer , sergeant .
mr. anderson , minnesota is great anytime of the year , compared to some of the places we end up .
i can imagine .
donny tells me youre part of a sniper team .
yes , sir , but we do many different things .
donny told you why i wanted to speak to you ?
sort of .
youre looking for information about a vietnam vet , somebody you knew .
yes .
i dont know if i can help , but if i can , i certainly will .
that was a long time ago and things are different now .
donny tells me your friend was a marine ?
yes , his name was billy palmer and he was in vietnam in sixty six and sixty seven .
ive talked to some of the people that knew him there , and its quite a story .
im sure it was , those guys were something .
they operated by themselves mostlyvery little support , something we dont have to worry about .
much of our doctrine was put together by those guys .
did he make it back ?
yes .
id like to talk to him , if thats possible , next time im up near red pine .
he died a month ago .
oh , im sorry to hear that .
those marine snipers were one tough bunch though .
if the brass would have listened to them they might have won that war .
really kicked some serious gook ass .
thats what im finding out .
it took a different kind of person to be a sniper then .
what kind of person do they look for now ?
independent , people that can think for themselves .
oddly enough , the sort of personnel that make good special ops troops are not necessarily good military men .
im finding that out too .
apparently my friend didnt have much patience for military thinking , or discipline .
small units like that dont rely on the chain of command .
every guy is expected to be a leader , if and when it becomes necessary .
how could i get access to billys military record , or is that legal ?
yes , of course , i would be glad to do it for you .
they encourage us to get involved , dig into the histories of our predecessors .
i have the day off , give me any information you have and i will see what i can find .
manny gave baylor billys social security number , billys military number and his birth date .
is this enough for you ?
yes , i think i can get what you need with this .
manny , donny , and baylor were sitting in a fancier place this time , and it was dark outside .
i pulled billy palmers records , and you will definitely be interested in what they say , said baylor .
this guy , your friend billy palmer , he was definitely a real marine .
this is his first proficiency report , done after week four in boot camp .
sergeant baylor handed manny the report .
manny took the paper and began to read .
private palmer , is quick to learn , but has no inclination to lead .
he is willing , however , to assist in any and all endeavors placed upon his fellow recruits .
private palmer is extremely intelligent , proficient , and savvy , figuring out how to make his boot camp training as easy as possible , but not jeopardizing anyone elses position .
private palmer does push the limits , but only those that involve his own circumstances .
he gets along well with others , not really caring about the attitude of others toward himself , whether pro or con , and does not get involved in any group dynamics .
i would classify private palmer as a mildly introverted , extrovert who seeks his diversion on his own .
after manny was finished and put the paper down , baylor picked up another one .
this is a second proficiency report done after week six , after they had done the rifle range training .
private palmer was lacking in enthusiasm and needed some discipline concerning the snapping in phase of rifle training , but exhibited extreme proficiency in the actual shooting , constantly scoring very high numbers .
private palmer is not in the least intimidated by the rank structure and has no apparent insolence to it either .
when manny was done with the second report , the sergeant spoke .
this is exactly the kind of person they look for .
one that can run his own show , but will get involved if it is necessary .
a loner that is willing to participate .
i can tell you that this friend of yours , this billy palmer is the sort of guy we modeled our tactics from .
this report about billy , what did you call it ?
a proficiency report , its the evaluation of a persons progress .
this is fascinating .
who wrote these ?
theyre damn good .
ah , lets see , these were done in boot , baylor said the guy was one of the dis , a gunnery sergeant mullens .
this guy was just a drill sergeant , he seems quite intelligent ?
what , you think just anybody is allowed to be a recruit training member ?
baylor laughed .
those guys are handpicked , just like the snipers .
they end up there because they are good at what they do .
if you want to see competence , you should spend a couple of hours aboard one of our aircraft carriers .
oh man , pop , hes not kidding , donny cut in .
we had a short detachment on the carl vincent .
man those sailors are something .
i was scared shitless up on that flight deck , so much going on , but it was just another day to them .
yeah , it seems like the general public sees only the worst part of the military , baylor added .
the big story generally comes along when something goes wrong , like vietnam .
there the only part anyone saw was the mess .
im still having trouble understanding why it got so convoluted , so out of control , donny said , shaking his head .
i guess the politicians had free reign on that one , baylor stated .
that sergeant , is a summation if ive ever heard one , manny said .
ive personally known quite a few politicians , and i doubt if they could successfully run anything .
they can never get beyond the reelection mentality .
their decisions are not based on what effect theyll have , just on how many votes theyll win or lose .
ill never understand politics , donny said .
someone has to be there , to take the credit , manny laughed .
what about the blame ?
donny asked .
oh , you wont see a politician within miles of that discussion , trust me on that one .
manny turned to baylor .
so sergeant , tell me what fascinates you so much about billy palmer and his cohorts ?
well , sir , those guys had no radios , no way to summon support .
they just went into the bush on hunting trips .
some of them never came back , you know .
now , we are always in contact with support , air , artillery , medical and rescue elements .
those guys in vietnam , especially the marine units , went out entirely on their own , under no ones orders , i might add , and capture was not an option .
what do you mean , without orders ?
they operated without getting orders from any higher source .
they did all this on their own .
they decided when and where to go , all on their own .
you mean they didnt have to go into the field ?
correct , they could have probably spent that war in the rear , but didnt .
bills partner told me they would snatch villagers to get to the rear .
why did he say they did that ?
sometimes , some officers would try to incorporate them into the field company operations , walk point , dig bunkers , stand guard , things like that , and the guys didnt like it so they would grab a villager and then escort them to the rear .
i wouldnt have blamed them in the least .
there is nothing worse for a specialist trained in covert operations to be subjected to the everyday mayhem the normal units operate under .
many of the line companies want special ops personnel because of their expertise , but the special ops people dont relish what they consider the risky business of the ground troops .
each entity considers the other to be crazy , or foolish , to this day .
yeah , billys partner , mark tainer , told me billy was very good at knowing where he was .
every line officer in the regiment knew that and wanted billy around .
tainer told me billy was wounded three times , and every time it was with a large unit , theyd just walk into the shit .
the last time got him sent home , knocked out of the game .
its all in here , baylor said , handing manny billys records .
find anything bad ?
some incidences of insubordination , but thats to be expected .
the command structure of the military would naturally come in conflict with a man like billy , but he did his job well , i can tell you that .
chapter 18 mt .
lemon was dappled in sun light , as manny stopped in front of gannet construction .
tucson arizona was one of his favorite cities because it was a blend of the old spanish and the new technology looks .
the surrounding mountains and desert always had a fresh clean look .
this haven in the desert experienced more rain than was the norm for the desert southwest .
manny entered and did not have to wait to see ted gannet .
he was ushered into the mans office by a secretary and introduced himself .
billy palmer , yeah i knew him , ted gannet volunteered without provocation .
best damn equipment operator i ever had .
i met him at the va hospital and we got to talking .
he said he had run some equipment , somewhere , and he needed a job .
i gave him a try and i wasnt disappointed .
he did a hell of a job , the most dependable guy i ever had .
he was real creative .
we do a lot of golf course shaping and you need guys that can visualize .
billy was real good at that .
how long did he work for you ?
manny asked .
oh hell , must have been three , three and a half years .
youre a friend right ?
how did that come about ?
we were friends , a long time ago .
we were close when we were kids .
whats the scoop ?
what do you want to know about him for ?
im sorry to hear hes dead .
how long ago ?
hes been dead for a month now .
sorry to hear that , i liked the guy .
whatre you doing snooping around his past ?
did he do something or what ?
no , i was a friend of his when we were kids , like i said .
i sort of lost track of him , and after he died , i just became interested in his life .
what , you writing a book or something ?
i dont know , maybe , but billy was the one who wrote a couple of them , good ones too .
no kidding ?
i often wondered about that guy .
he was really astute , but he said so little about himself , i never really knew much .
he never said anything about his military service ?
nah , i asked him a couple of times , but he wouldnt say .
i figured it must have been a bad experience , so i didnt press it .
you know anything about it ?
manny opened his brief case and handed ted a copy of billys records .
ted opened the records and started reading .
ted read for five minutes , silent the whole time .
he finally looked over the top of the papers , staring at manny for a moment .
ill be damned this is all true ?
yes , sir , every word has been verified .
ive got someone that should see this , do you mind ?
ted reached for the phone on his desk and pushed a button .
is miller around anywhere close ?
ted asked when the secretary answered .
yes , mr. gannet , he said he was going back to the yard .
get him in here , right away .
ted looked over at manny .
miller , thats my main foreman .
he didnt like palmer , claimed he was a coward .
why would he think that ?
oh , hes a dumb ass redneck .
he said bill was a pussy because he and a couple of the other guys took him out hunting , and bill didnt measure up to their lofty standards .
i guess palmer wouldnt shoot bambi , or something like that .
miller accused him of being scared and insinuated that bill was a coward in the military .
those idiots were always harassing him .
im sure they were just threatened .
like i said , bill was real smart , and most of the guys in this business arent known for their brilliance .
ive got some that arent much smarter than the fibrous food group .
ted continued to read through the information .
this is quite a record .
i had no idea palmer was even a marine .
from mannys position in the office he could see down a hall running to the secretarys desk and beyond to the front door .
a big , rough , burley man in jeans , cowboy boots , and work shirt opened the front door and stepped through .
the man continued on past the secretary and stepped into the office .
whats up boss , sounded important ?
the man looked over at manny and just nodded .
got something here you might be interested in .
brute miller , manny anderson .
brutes a nickname he picked up somewhere , cant imagine where , ted chuckled , looking at manny .
the two men simply nodded at each other because brute made no effort to go over to manny .
manny here is an old friend of someone that worked here .
i think youll remember this guy ?
ted handed a paper to brute .
brute looked at manny , warily , as he walked over to the couch against the other wall and sat down .
after a few moments he asked , whats this supposed to be ?
brute held up a sheet of paper .
whats it look like ?
ted responded .
i dont know for sure , but it looks like some sort of commendation .
somebody got a medal the silver star ?
recognize the name ?
corporal william perry palmer .
dont recognize the brute got a frown on his face .
the big man looked at ted , then he looked back at the paper in his hand , and then back at ted .
a slow thought seemed to be developing in his head .
is this william palmer the same guy that worked for us quite a while back , the dozer operator ?
ah , um , what was his name , ah ?
bill , ted said .
yeah , that guy , the good golf course builder ?
brute asked .
the one and the same .
cant be .
that guy was a sissy .
he would have crapped his pants , anything like this happened to him , brute stated , sure of himself .
same guy , miller .
like i said , manny here , hes an old friend of mr. palmers .
came here to find out how his old friend was treated .
shit boss , i had no idea .
brute looked to ted and then to manny , an apologetic look on his face .
just sticking it to you a little , brute , ted said , looking at manny , with a smirk on his face .
brute and i go round and round about judging people .
hes good with all the schlocks we have to hire to run the machines and do the grunt work , but is short on recognizing sophistication when it comes along .
aw shit boss , i cant help it .
mosta them boys aint any smarter than the machines they run , brute whined .
gotcha on this one though .
damn sure did .
this really the same guy , huh ?
yup !
well , i was right about the military fucking with his head .
i got the why and how a little mixed up though .
brute looked at manny .
hey mister , when you see billy tell him im real sorry , i had no idea .
billys dead !
no shit , what happened ?
brute did sound sincere .
im not really sure , but i think it had something to do with his credibility , manny threw back at brute .
ted gannet smirked again .
what do you mean credibility ?
brute asked , puzzled .
whats that got to do with dying ?
maybe billy got tired of living , maybe he got tired of being misjudged ?
he offed himself ?
brute asked .
i dont know ?
maybe he just didnt take care of himself properly .
i think he probably got tired of all the misconceptions regarding who he really was .
ted was listening intently , watching brute , as manny laid out the scenario .
hey , its his own damn fault !
shit , the guy didnt say nothing about all this .
brute flicked the paper , offering his own version of an apology .
would you have believed him if he did ?
manny asked .
sure , of course .
what ya think , id make fun of a hero .
but , ill tell yeah , my old man was in korea , and that nam was nothing like what he had to go through .
shit those pussies had it good compared to them guys back then .
i would like you to read the citation there , out loud if you would ?
manny asked .
brute looked at ted .
go ahead miller , itll show youre contrite .
huh ?
brute responded .
just read the citation , ted said .
if you say so boss .
um , lets see , it says that , corporal william perry palmer and corporal markham joseph tainer , on june 13th , 1966 .
brute was slow and deliberate with his commentary .
did , after setting up a firing position overlooking the village of duc duc , in the provincial province of tam key , the country of south vietnam , witness the ambush of the third squad , 1st platoon , hotel company , 2nd battalion fifth marines .
corporals palmer and tainer , under great risk to themselves , abandoned their secure position and came to the aid of the remaining members of the above mentioned platoon .
the two corporals , members of the battalions scout sniper squad , were operating in a two man team and still knowing that they were vastly outnumbered , did in fact , break up the attack and save the platoon from certain annihilation .
corporal palmer was wounded in said action , but continued to harass the enemy , figured to number at least fifty nva , until support arrived .
thats enough mr. miller , manny said .
i think you can get a reasonably good idea of what billy did .
yeah , geez , he saved a few guys , all right .
i knew he had been in the service , but i thought he was just some sort of psycho , wash out .
geez , we never had any idea , huh boss !
no , i guess in our defense we were a little ignorant all right , ted commented .
tough shit they put up with , but ill bet it still wasnt as bad as korea .
my old man had some rough fuckin shit there , made him mean as hell .
wouldve curled your toes , just hearing about it .
im sure it did , ted returned .
i cant figure it ?
brute said .
why didnt that guy stick up for himself ?
shit , he acted like such a pussy .
whatre we talking about ?
ted laughed .
if i remember right , he ran you down like a dog that one time we had the football game .
ah boss , i told you he blind sided me , i never saw it coming .
oh yeah , thats right .
say brute , hows the equipment list for that job down south coming ?
we got everything we need ?
looks like it , but i still think we should get a new loader for the separation plant .
weve about used up the old 950 and itll start costing us real money any day now .
i think youre probably right , ted said .
make sure you get the deal you want though .
gotcha boss , brute miller said as he got up and headed out of the office .
good man , ted said nodding to the hallway .
knows the business and how to handle the men .
somebody like billy comes along though , and guys like brute just naturally get their backs up .
its not his fault , the viet nam vets just got a bad rap , and people tend to go with the flow .
you trying to rectify the injustice at a late date ?
ted asked .
you might say that .
good luck !
with all the new dilemmas on our door step , i dont know how much success youre going to have getting people to cop to an old oversight .
probably not much , unless i make it entertaining .
how you going to do that ?
im not sure , but im trying to get someone interested in a book that billy wrote .
he wrote some good stuff , huh ?
could i read it ?
ill get a copy to you when its ready .
say , uh , how come billy quit working for you ?
union bullshit .
we got a big job in california and it was union .
the union over there wouldnt take any new members , so we couldnt put him on .
it was a really big job , took everything we had and we didnt have anything else for him at the time .
the union denied a decorated , disabled veteran his right to make a decent living ?
manny questioned thats about the size of it .
is there anything else you know about billy , anything you can think of ?
manny asked .
not off hand , but you might try talking to his wife .
his wife !
manny sat up attentively .
i didnt know he was ever married ?
oh yeah , pretty thing .
a real gorgeous lady , smart too .
miller and the other guys are usually crude and rude around women , but not when lucy came around .
then they got real courteous .
i think she intimidated the hell out of them .
she was from california , someplace around palm springs .
they had a kid too , you know .
a little girl about five or six .
looked like her mother , the lucky thing .
billy never mentioned any of this , manny said .
i wonder what happened to them ?
he came back home about five years ago and he was all by himself .
thats strange , he sure loved them .
it looked like he had a good relationship at the time , but you know how things can change .
chapter 19 all right , okay , i found them !
manny shouted , sitting over the computer .
found who ?
cassey asked .
billys wife and kid .
billy was really married then ?
yeah , and he has a daughter .
when was this ?
he was married in 1978 , and his daughter was born in 1980 .
the last known address is san diego .
not another trip ?
manny , youre going overboard with this .
i cant help it , its getting to be more and more interesting .
well , at least use the darn phone , once in a while .
people can tell their story just as well without you staring them down .
you know im just looking for an excuse to get out of here .
i cant take the cold anymore .
why dont you come with me this time ?
manny , ive got two committees on my butt this month so if i dont do it , it wont get done .
youre just afraid to fly , admit it .
okay , so it scares the hell out of me , so what ?
you never used to be .
we talked about it there are people that can help you with that .
look manny , ever since penny got killed in that plane , i dont know , it just freaks me out to think about getting on one again .
these people you keep telling me to go to , do they run alongside the plane making sure that the wings dont fall off ?
oh , dont be silly .
silly , you expect me to listen to someone trying to convince me that it is okay to fly , and planes still crash .
what i need is for somebody to guarantee me that the planes wont ever crash again , ever , and then ill consider it .
besides , i dont hate the winter , you know that .
i know , you love the seasons .
jealous ?
i was back when i couldnt get away , but i still wouldnt mind you with me .
oh , well have all that time together after the snow melts .
besides , if you do die in a plane crash then therell be people around to say , i told you so .
cassey stuck her tongue out at manny .
have you talked to that tainer guy ?
i havent heard anything back on the book we sent him .
no , i told him to get in touch with you .
hell call , when hes ready .
he said that they were extremely busy and it takes a couple of years to get a book to the public , even if it is good .
i guess they have a lot going at the time .
well , im thinking of sending it to someone else , someone that has the time .
boy , youre impatient , you sound like this is your book , manny laughed .
i know , but in a way it is .
i want to see billy get his just reward for what he did .
are you getting emotionally involved ?
you bet your ass .
the more i find out , the more i want to see it through .
i guess the book turned into my baby .
im just wondering why this mark is not taking an interest in billys work ?
like i said , im thinking of maybe contacting another publisher .
cassey , if you think thats what you want to do , go ahead .
it wouldnt hurt to have a second opinion , never does .
yes , lucy guterraz , lucy palmer , is my daughter .
the old man blinked , looking out into the much brighter light , his deeply lined , ancient looking face and head the only thing manny could see of him .
manny could see the blinds were mostly drawn , the house very dark behind the partially open door .
lucy was my daughter , the old man added sadly .
the house manny came to was an old , post wwii design , so familiar to this san diego neighborhood .
it was well kept , the yard clean , the grass neatly cut .
a large shady tree in the front yard cut off the direct sunlight to the front porch , where manny was standing .
the house and street would be unremarkable , except that looking down the street , manny could see the sparkling blue of the pacific ocean .
was ?
oh no , manny hesitated , the comment catching him off guard .
im sorry , i , a , im not sure what to say .
do you mean shes dead ?
mannys voice betrayed his shock and sadness .
he had been very excited about finding billys wife .
yes , the man said morosely .
he was very old and frail , holding on to the partially open door for support .
im sorry .
i had no idea she was dead , manny stammered , uncertain how to continue , or maybe duck out .
i am so sorry to trouble you , but i was once a close friend of billy palmers .
i am at the right place ?
a sad little smile appeared on the dated face .
yes , i know billy .
he was married to my daughter for almost ten years .
ah , i dont know how to continue here , could i come in ?
i just want to find out about billy , anything you could tell me ?
its such a nice day out , i could come out if you wish ?
the old man said .
its so dreary in the house .
the old man fully opened the door , waiting for manny to agree to his request .
by all means , im just in from minnesota , and its great to feel warm weather , manny said agreeably the old man stepped on to the porch and pointed to a couple of chairs .
please sit down mr. .
.
?
anderson , but just manny , if you dont mind .
nice to meet you manny .
im wendell .
funny name for a mexican , huh ?
wendell said , hobbling to one chair .
but my family has been here for generations .
your friend billy was a very good man .
i have missed him , but after what happened to my lucy , he couldnt get past it and he , he never came back .
he would call from time to time , but he never came back to this street .
he is dead , right ?
yes , how did you know ?
billy was a dead man for many years , in his spirit , wendell said with a deep sigh .
i had a premonition a while ago that his body had finally joined his soul .
you know , some people say i am a strange old man , but if i try hard enough , i can see my lucy playing in the street , right out there .
the old man pointed to the street .
i can really see her .
sometimes i can see billy sitting there .
the old man pointed to the love seat at the far end of the porch .
i can see billy with lucy sitting on his lap , laughing , enjoying each other .
they were meant to be together .
he loved his wife then ?
manny asked .
oh yes , and jasmine , wendell perked up , oh , the dear sweet little girl .
he looked out to the street and sat still not speaking .
they are both dead now , for eight years , he finally said , his voice quavering .
my god , i didnt mean to just show up on your door step and rehash something so obviously painful for you , manny apologized profusely .
i am so sorry .
but , manny , it is good to talk about the saints you have known , wendell countered .
it does an old man good to discuss the bright times in his twilight years .
what happened ?
manny asked .
lucy was murdered , and little jasmine too .
an evil man , high on drugs broke into their apartment when lucy and jasmine were there , alone .
they never figured out if this man didnt know anyone was home , or just didnt care , because he was surely out of his mind .
killed them both , a mother and her daughter for less than sixty dollars .
jesus , no wonder billy was so elusive the last time i saw him .
how could anyone function after something like that ?
manny exclaimed .
no wonder he looked beaten , really down .
i was shocked , i never thought billy could be so subdued , and now i know why .
yes , he did blame himself for not being there .
at first i was worried that he would go after this evil man , this el diablo , but billy said that it would not bring them back .
i am not a violent man , but when i saw what it did to him , i changed my mind .
i told billy that to save his spirit , he maybe should taste the revenge , but he said no , that the laws were meant for everybody .
you want to hear the saddest part of this tragedy ?
wendell continued .
this evil man that killed a mother and her daughter , my family , was supposed to be a viet nam veteran , just like billy palmer .
this man was on full disability , claiming that his flash backs prevented him from holding a job .
before he gets to trial , he pleads guilty by reason of insanity .
the well meaning states attorney takes the plea , and they send this man to a mental hospital , based on his va evaluation , which says that he is mentally unstable because of his war experience .
meanwhile , the detective assigned to the case is reading a book called stolen valor , are you familiar with it manny ?
yes , i know the book .
yes , i dont have to explain it then .
this detective decides to check this man out and he finds this man , eddy crane , has never been in vietnam .
this man has never even been in the service .
this man has lied about everything .
the va would not admit their mistake , officially , and this man continues to get his full disability .
it is a very confusing system we have manny .
you cant make much sense to a bureaucrat .
i was with the diplomatic corps for many years , manny .
i came to realize that politics is a very flawed form of governing , that is for sure .
but , it gets even worse manny .
after six years , the state doctors say this evil man is all better and can go home , with his full disability of course .
of course , manny said .
the only vindication in this saga is that the man hasnt killed anyone else .
at least , not as far as we know .
who is this guy ?
do you know where he is now ?
yes , i think so .
the detective keeps track of him the best he can , but it is difficult .
the authorities say they cant give this information out .
they must protect his identity and location , you know , for his safety .
i can never forget him .
i am an old man , manny , and i dont have long to live , but if someone younger could take up my cause ?
oh , im sorry mr. guterraz , i know youre very angry and rightfully so , but im not the sort of person to take up a vendetta .
i have a family of my own .
oh no manny , billy was right of course , but i would like to see this man at least be deprived of his ill gotten gains , that is all .
mr. guterraz , i dont know what i can do ?
im just a business man and i have no expertise for that sort of thing .
i stay as far away from officialdom as i can because they frustrate the hell out of me .
yes , i understand manny .
wendell looked out to the street with a vacant look .
it was wrong of me to infer manny detected a faint smile forming on mr. gutterazs face , his attention still focused on the street .
poor old man , his memories are all that keep him going .
manny watched the old man , thinking of how to extract himself from the situation .
i feel so bad for this old guy , i hate to just up and leave .
a very faint sound from the street caused manny to shift his gaze , looking under the tree , out to the blacktop .
i thought i might have heard children playing , but theres no one there .
the old man chuckled , causing manny to look back at him .
mr. guterraz had a broad smile on his face and a sparkle in his eyes .
i heard it again , children out there , playing .
manny looked intently to where he thought the children should be .
but , theres no one there .
do you hear them ?
mr. guterraz asked .
who ?
manny asked , slightly spooked .
whats happening here ?
there , in the street , my daughter and her child , they are there .
mr. guterraz pointed out under the tree .
they want you to see how beautiful they were .
they know you were a friend of billys and they want you to see them .
look , manny , look hard and you will .
this crazy old coot is batty for christ sakes .
hes scaring the shit out of me .
listen manny , do you hear them ?
them , i cant believe thi manny sat up suddenly , straightening in his seat .
there manny , there , they want you to see them .
the old mans voice was soothing and mesmerizing .
manny stared intently , listening .
somethings out there , i can hear so .
my god , thats got to be just the heat !
manny exclaimed , staring at the street , watching something .
no manny anderson , that is billys wife and child .
he would want you to do this for him .
the man to see is detective sergeant albright .
he has an office downtown , ill get his number .
manny left wendell guterrazs humble home , shook up .
at first , driving in the rental car , he tried and tried to dispel what had happened .
his first line of defense was his reputation for being realistic .
he was a sagittarius and although he personally dismissed most of the heavy sales pitch attached to the practice of astrology , he did use the personality traits of his sign to his advantage .
it was easy and convenient to attribute his aloofness and individualistic qualities to his sign , without having to explain his actions .
being a sagittarius , being the explorer , complimented his mystic .
cassey knew what he was up to , and that made it all the easier .
manny was a realist and as hard as he tried to pass the incident with wendell off as unexplainable , or the product of a tired , over imaginative mind , he kept coming back to the fact that he had been there , and he had witnessed something very strange .
wendell either enticed me to see what he wanted , or there really was a phenomenon in that street .
after driving around aimlessly for nearly an hour , manny found himself cruising slowly along a street next to the ship channel leading from the port of san diego to the pacific ocean .
it was getting dark and the fog was rolling in , advancing from seaward .
manny parked the car and got out , breathing in the salty , damp air .
the moisture laden atmosphere quickly surrounded him , the entire car already coated with a thick , wet layer of condensation .
so many different places in this world .
manny took in a deep breath .
all this water , but it doesnt smell like any lake and im used to that .
manny walked toward the ship channel .
he could hear the buoy bells clanging , but could barely see some lights out over the water .
by the time he had gotten as far as the side walk running along the channel , only smell and sound remained , the fog was so thick .
guterraz you old bugger , what happened back there ?
did you do something to me or was it real ?
i should be angry or scared , but im not .
you set me up you old shit , and now i have to find out .
manny stood motionless , many thoughts going through his head .
in the jungle its so dark you cant see a thing so your eyes are worthless , so you must use the other senses .
it is not the kind of situation that you can afford to be out of touch with your surroundings .
tainers words suddenly popped into his head .
at five the next morning , manny was standing in the same spot , having spent a restless night in his hotel room .
the fog was still there , as heavy as it had been when he left the night before .
he had been memorizing the sounds and the locations and now they were familiar to him .
he stood quietly analyzing each sound , forming a picture in his mind .
as it began to get light he strained to see , but the fog still shrouded everything .
his first visual were the rocks running from the sidewalk down into the mist toward the sound of the lapping water .
patience , manny , patience .
a small black object between two rocks was a blob , indefinable , until it moved .
when it did , it became a crab .
the colorless , pulpy substance near it became seaweed , long after manny had first smelled it .
it was minutes before the water gurgling in between the rocks was recognizable , but as it did , manny already had an image in his head and knew what to expect .
the sound of the waves farther out were no surprise , they looked just as they had sounded .
each object , moving farther and farther out from him , a buoy bell , a small ship heading out to sea , only the running lights showing .
then a much larger ship that he could hear pushing through the water , he knew what they would look like before he could see them .
as they came into view , the sky was getting lighter and the fog thinning .
manny , for the first time in his life was getting familiar with his surroundings .
he had become one with this little part of the world .
then he realized he had experienced the calmness , the confidence , the thrill before .
occasionally , when everything was gelling , everything clicking , everything going his way he felt this on the golf course .
manny never before surmised exactly why he loved the game so much .
thank you wendell , i owe you one .
manny drove from the ship channel into downtown san diego with a calm determination .
manny was at the police station early and waiting for detective albright as he arrived .
the desk sergeant indicated manny to the detective and albright walked over .
what can i do for you first thing in the morning ?
the detective asked , somewhat suspicious .
you were an investigator in the palmer homicides , a few years back ?
one of them , whats your interest ?
billy palmer , the father , was a friend of mine .
rough deal , he ever get over it ?
i dont know , he never mentioned it .
he died a month ago , and im taking up the cause .
boy , do i sound pushy .
and , what cause is that ?
the man that murdered his family was a fraud .
most murderers can fit that bill .
this eddy crane , was , is getting vet benefits , illegally .
not according to the va , hes not , illegally , i mean .
they bought his story hook line and sinker .
who told you all this ?
mr. guterraz .
nice man , how is he doing ?
hes doing , but he misses his daughter and granddaughter .
not much left that late in life .
too late to start over when it comes to a family .
yeah , i guess it would be .
you investigated mr. cranes service record and found none .
im not at liberty to discuss the matter .
whys that ?
were a government agency , same as the va. look , detective , i know you tried to do something concerning mr. crane and i can surely realize it wouldnt be difficult for one segment of the government to make it difficult for another segment , to make waves .
you understand a lot mr. .
.
?
anderson , manny .
well , understand this manny .
i was sick when i found out about it all , and i was going to do something about this fraudulent pension , but i was instructed to drop the case .
it was over , the man was sentenced , and the file was closed .
i understand , makes sense to me .
give me the information i need and i will pick up where you left off .
impossible .
nothing is impossible .
there are certain things that need to be done , and i will see this accomplished , with or without your help .
i was hoping there would be some satisfaction for you in knowing that i was so determined .
believe me detective albright , it will get done .
im staying at the downtown radisson , room four one eight .
thank you for your time detective .
you know that nice old man is getting you to do this for him ?
i do things of my own accord .
my colleague thinks mr. guterraz is a warlock .
he can make people see things .
what did he get you to see , mr. anderson ?
the need to do something , was all manny said as he turned away from the detective .
manny didnt want the cop to see the cold sweat and shivers that had overcome him from the detectives comment about wendells control .
manny had a message waiting for him when he returned to the hotel .
it had an address for yuma , arizona and nothing more .
chapter 20 manny rented another car and drove east from san diego , arriving in yuma just as the sun was setting .
hopefully the detective gave manny the location of eddy crane .
manny was surprised as he sat in the rental car , parked next to a school , looking at the house supposedly owned by eddy crane .
it was a surprise that a multiple murder should be able to reside in such a nice neighborhood , and be able to live in a fine house like the one he was looking at .
my god , how some people manage to come out smelling like roses no matter what they do .
i guess , being housed and fed for seven years , while on the full dole , adds up , manny said to himself , disgusted .
manny sat in the car for half an hour , mostly watching the beautiful desert twilight .
when it was fully dark he started the car and drove off , deciding to get a motel and some sleep .
he wasnt sure what hed do in the morning .
at first light , manny was back at the address , this time driving past the crane residence .
the garage door was up , and he saw a dark pickup inside .
well , bingo !
manny said to himself because the name on the mail box said e. crane .
manny drove by the house and went down the street , a ways , and was turning around when he saw the pickup back out of the garage and into the street .
manny hurriedly drove up behind the truck and honked .
are you edward crane ?
he asked as he pulled alongside , his drivers side window next to the open passenger window of the truck .
whos asking ?
edward crane was old and mean looking , dressed in dirty unkept clothes .
its hard to tell his physical stature sitting there in the truck , but the hands are skinny and weak looking .
i am !
manny announced .
the frailty of this man doesnt seem the least bit intimidating to me .
leave me alone !
then i assume that you are edward crane ?
assuming the wrong thing can get you in trouble mister !
is that a threat ?
leave me alone mister .
im not going to tell you again !
crane said , starting to reach under the seat of the truck .
i would assume someone with your record would not consider having a gun under that seat .
talk about trouble !
manny surprised himself .
he wasnt sure if it was seeing just an old man , or the things this guy had done that was driving him to be so bold , but it was working .
eddy crane sat up straight , putting both hands back on the steering wheel .
now , im looking for edward crane , im interested in his story .
what story would that be ?
ive heard the edward crane im looking for is a highly decorated veteran .
that he was dealt some injustices in his life , that same edward crane .
i served my country with valor , and they took no responsibility for what they did to me .
this guy has some balls , either that , or hes been lying so long he really believes it .
if thats what youre wondering ?
crane continued , taking the bait .
then you might be the edward crane im looking for ?
might be , might not .
what have you got for the right edward crane ?
a chance to hear his story told correctly , and maybe some monetary gain .
you got a drivers license , something to tell me who you are ?
manny hesitated , not wanting this man to know who he was , where he lived .
i should have planned this out better , but ive got cranes ear , and i dont want to lose this opportunity .
manny took out his drivers license and handed it to crane through the window of the pickup .
i think it is a shame the way the returning vets were treated , manny said quickly , while reaching out for his license back .
i think they should be compensated , as much as possible , dont you ?
he stated , as crane gave him the license back .
manny was relieved because crane didnt seem to look at the license long , just matching manny to the photo .
that war was really terrible for me , crane whined .
mannys spine shivered because crane sounded like a spoiled little girl .
i cant get over what they made me do .
i had to do a lot of killing .
it was real hard on me .
i havent been right since then .
cant sleep right , its just terrible what they made me do .
i cant get over the babies i had to kill .
i remember this one little girl , it was so awful .
i suppose you know about my problems , but none of it was my fault after what i had to do .
they owe me .
yes , mr. crane , i dont doubt you deserve something far different than what youre getting now .
good day , ill be in touch .
manny stepped down hard on the accelerator , wanting to put distance between himself and this disgusting man .
chapter 21 manny was at the computer working diligently , when cassey entered the room .
whats got your total attention , ive never seen you work so hard ?
cassey asked .
im working on a letter to the va .
i just got off the phone with senator blake .
i informed him off the discrepancy regarding this edward cranes disability claim .
manny , isnt this getting a little overboard ?
this guy murdered billys wife and daughter .
but you might be getting too involved , dont you think ?
besides , you said this guy was a nut .
do you really want him in your life ?
hes not going to be in my life , i just want to right a wrong .
things have a way of happening , anderson , cassey lectured .
i just think you should leave well enough alone .
the guy killed billys wife and kid .
you already said that !
i dont see what this is going to accomplish for billy ?
lucys father told me this guy was , and still is , collecting full disability payments from the va , and was never even in the service .
manny , how can that be ?
remember that book i wanted you to read , the stolen valor one .
i read a little .
it was boring and i couldnt finish .
but you got the gist of it , right ?
i guess , but there are a lot of books on this theory or that .
doesnt mean that they have any validity .
lucys father gave me the name of the detective that worked the case and he verifies that this guy , edward crane , was never in the service .
this guys lawyer got him off with an insanity plea using his va records which classified him as suffering from post traumatic stress syndrome , brought on by his service in vietnam , which the va refuses to acknowledge never happened .
i want the va to correct the issue .
manny , this guy kills people , and you are going to do what to him ?
we pay taxes , and ill be damned if i am going to stand by and see this sort of injustice .
damnit , this lying sack of shit destroyed billys happiness , and then uses the very system that was put in place to help guys like billy .
its an injustice of unparalleled magnitude , and im going to do something about it .
i thought it was supposed to be us that did the horrible thing to billy ?
now youve conveniently found someone else to pass the blame to .
this billy escapade youve take on , dont you think it might be moving into the excessive stage ?
you might want to consider that , cassey scolded .
also consider , this guy is dangerous , and youre talking about screwing him , big time .
i dont know manny , i thought this was a harmless diversion for you , but its taking on a life of its own .
i dont want my life complicated .
im really quite happy , you know .
dont ruin that for me manny .
i will never forgive you , i promise .
im going to be careful cassey .
i just need to do this .
i dont want this sort of thing happening , and no one doing a thing about it .
why doesnt this father do anything , it was his daughter and granddaughter ?
hes old and tired and losing his family did him in .
he had very nice things to say about billy , really misses him .
billy stayed in touch with him ?
i guess , sporadically , but according to mr. guterraz , thats the father , billy and his daughter had a good relationship and cared deeply for each other .
wendell says that the life went out of billy when she was murdered .
remember , he lost his little girl too and i guess he was very close to her .
jennifer was her name , heres a picture of them both .
manny took a photo he had in with his papers and handed it to cassey .
cassey took the photo and looked at it for a long time .
why did you do this to me ?
cassey finally said , sounding very sad .
do what ?
manny asked , looking up from the computer .
emotionally blindsided me with this ?
cassey said , holding out the picture , still looking at it .
i dont get what youre saying ?
i dont know how to explain it , i , uh , i just cant explain it .
this picture is so profoundly sad .
not the picture , i mean .
its a beautiful picture .
cassey looked intently at the photo .
these are two beautiful people .
cassey pointed to the photo .
but theyre dead .
cassey said nothing , just stared at the photo , silently .
after about a minute , she said with reverence .
and i never got to meet them .
its a powerful picture , isnt it ?
its just a picture of a beautiful woman and her daughter , why does it pull at me so ?
i means that billy had his good times , even after we shunned his friendship .
he went on his way and found happiness without us .
is that it ?
do you really think so manny ?
here we are working on this massive guilt trip , and it turns out it wasnt necessary ?
heres proof that billy probably just got tired of us and our silliness and went his way .
i sort of got the same feeling as i read that story of his .
he didnt need us or our silly shit .
we didnt deal him a crappy hand that mattered .
we just didnt realize the depth of billy , and were the ones that lost ?
my god cassey , do you think we might be approaching maturity ?
manny , if that happens , who will we associate with ?
cassey laughed .
what did the senator say ?
he wants confirmation .
says if he gets it , our man crane will be looking for work .
hes a bad man manny , i just cant get past that thought .
theres no way he can find us , manny stated , but he was uncomfortable with the statement .
on the radio the weather forecaster was saying , it looked like the central portion of minnesota can expect a balmy day .
balmy , balmy for late december in minnesota , what a smuck .
poor dumb asses that get stuck here all winter might go for it .
partly sunny with highs in the mid thirties , but look out for tomorrow ladies and gents , the cheerful voice on the radio continued , its back to the winter were all accustomed too .
a cold front is moving down from our neighbor to the north and we can expect snow and cold by tomorrow .
now thats more like it .
manny was in the kitchen getting coffee .
it was still dark outside , but he was up , his mind on overdrive .
it looks like we will have that customary white , white christmas , ended the weatherman , christmas music replacing him .
no shit , sherlock !
the white , white is piled higher than my ass out there , manny said , looking out the kitchen window .
he could see the first light of morning through the bare trees at the end of the yard .
the ringing phone made him turn away .
hello , north pole , if youre looking for santa , he quit and went to florida , manny answered .
are you still a smart ass in the summer , or are there other things to occupy that troubled mind ?
the voice on the other end replied .
always troubled , but busier , less focused .
this sounds like a publisher i know .
whats your excuse for getting me out of bed ?
it must be warm in there , what are you complaining about ?
you wouldnt believe it tainer , high of thirty five on the glacier today .
well , there you go , youve got nothing to bitch about .
cold and snow tomorrow , whats up ?
your wife called me yesterday , but i was sorry to inform her that i havent really had the time to get into the book you sent me .
one of my readers said that there might be something there , but these things take time .
we need to be realistic , tell her that , will you .
cassey can be a determined bugger when she gets into something and it can be hard to head her off .
just tell her to be patient , give me a little time , okay .
look , im calling to invite you to new york , on my dime .
when we talking about ?
i just got back from california and arizona .
tomorrow , if possible .
i know with the holidays coming up it might be squeezing things , but i really would like to sit down with you and talk about billy .
i thought you were too busy to work on billys things ?
i want to talk about palmer , not his writing , can you make it ?
i guess , but it should only be a day or two .
i have to look like im trying to enjoy the holidays and i have to be close to home to pull that off .
i understand .
you come in tomorrow and out the next day , hows that ?
i guess i can get away with it .
good , minneapolis , northwest tomorrow evening , flight 213 , 7 45 p.m. , can you pull that off .
yeah , its about three hours from here to the airport , so no problemo .
jesus manny , cassey whined .
another trip ?
you just got back .
where to now ?
just a short trip to new york , some business to take care of before the holidays .
im going and coming , short trip , i promise .
well , it better be short because ive got a ton of things to do .
you know this is the first family christmas in three years .
both the boys will be here , and i dont know when that will happen again .
cassey , i promise , ill be back thursday night .
there is no way im staying any longer than a day .
you going to see mark tainer ?
i dont know .
he was uncertain why he had to lie about his real reason .
he wasnt doing anything wrong , but he didnt want cassey getting mad , accusing him about being obsessed with billy palmer after her dressing him down about crane .
i might give him a call .
well , tell him to poop or get off the pot .
now cassey , hes a busy man .
im sure when hes ready , or has something , youll be the first to know .
i talked to caroline jennings , her daughter had that book published , remember ?
cassey didnt continue .
and ?
manny knew his cue .
and mattie said we might be able to talk to her publisher , after the holidays .
hey , do what you want , youre the one thats done all the work .
chapter 22 new york citys weather didnt look much better than what he left in minnesota , manny decided , looking out the window of mark tainer 's office .
im sorry about not having anything to tell cassey about the book , i hope you understand that it takes time , mark was saying .
no , dont worry , i understand .
cassey isnt business minded .
she can get impatient , and like i said , it can be hard to distract her sometimes .
shes contacting some other publishers .
what ?
tainer exclaimed , obviously excited .
dont do that , i want this material !
well , i just figured that being as busy as you say , you wouldnt mind .
i dont like people playing politics with me , tainer stated , obviously angry .
i dont understand what you mean by playing politics ?
using pressure on me .
what pressure ?
geez man , cassey just figured if youre so busy she would take a load off you by talking to someone else .
when did she do this ?
tainer asked quickly .
she hasnt done anything yet .
manny held his hands up trying to calm tainer .
we just talked about it , and with the holidays around the corner it was something she was going to get to after the first of the year , but i am curious if you havent read billys stuff , why the excitement about it going somewhere else ?
manny , i know its good , my reader verified that , but it takes a long time .
billy was my buddy and i better than anyone should do this .
im very interested with doing something about billy .
ive always wanted to write the great story , but never had the time , or until now , the material .
but youve always known the story , you were there with him .
manny , the total story of billy .
thats why i invited you here , to pick your brain on palmer , to piece his life together .
oh , the whole thing .
i get it now .
thats why you want funny stuff i remembered about billy .
yes , billy was a verifiable hero , but war stories about heroes tell so little about how that hero came to be and what happened after .
i want to do a complete story .
ahhhh , well let me think .
there was so much its hard to just off the top of your head ?
manny thought for a moment .
one time we were in a restaurant down at the lake .
it was sunday morning and the place was full of people coming from church .
we had been at the lake water skiing and went to get something to eat .
it was billy , cassey , and my girlfriend at the time .
we were waiting in line , and for some reason i decided to play a joke on billy .
i pulled his swimming trunks down right there in the restaurant .
i figured hed just pull them up quickly and that wed get a good laugh .
anyway , billy just stood there , looking at me with this smirk on his face , bare assed naked .
i didnt know what to do because he just stood there , swim trunks down around his knees , everyone in the restaurant gawking or gasping .
cassey finally pulled his trunks back up .
one of the waitresses had seen me do it , and the manager came over and threw me out .
i was hungrier than hell , and it was the only place open in that whole damn town .
i can remember sitting in the car all by myself , feeling like some little boy that was being punished .
when did you get to know palmer ?
i went through boot camp with billy , but i didnt really associate with him then .
we had mostly texas , louisiana , and arkansas boys in our platoon , and billy was a northerner .
he was kind of a loner type , but he got along okay .
i think the only attitude toward him was , he was smart .
he got quite a bit of attention from one of the dis .
this wiry little di was always fucking with billy , trying to get him to laugh , then hed end up doing squat thrusts .
we all thought billy was backwoods , being from some small hick town in minnesota .
i remember he was fast as hell and really tough .
one night some of the down home boys tried to give him a blanket party , and he knocked a couple of them around pretty good .
after , i asked him if he did much fighting back home , and he said he had been playing hockey since he was four .
i didnt put two and two together until i watched a hockey game a couple of years later .
after boot camp we went home for a month , and then one month of itr training before vietnam .
billy and i were in the same group in itr .
most of my friends from boot camp went somewhere else , so palmer was kind of a familiar face .
he also had some cousins that lived in the la .
area , just up the highway from camp pendleton where we were .
there were five of them , all good looking girls and they would come and get billy for the weekends , so naturally he was a good choice for a buddy , if you know what i mean ?
i definitely hung around with him after our survival training .
he could figure out things he knew the ropes .
at the end of the training they had this exercise where they stuck us on this road , about fifty of us .
the object was to go from this road , into the brush , and make it to another road about ten miles away .
there was nothing between the two , but thick brush , trees , gullies , ravines and all kinds of nasty shit .
there were aggressor teams all throughout the route , and if you got captured , you spent the weekend in their stockade where they could interrogate you .
i heard that was really fun .
all they gave you were two canteens full of water and a k bar , thats a big ass knife .
if and when you got to the other road , if you did , you could get a ride back to the camp and check out for liberty for the weekend .
this started thursday morning , so you might end up spending the night out there if you didnt make the second road the first day .
the rules said that if you captured a rattlesnake it was a free pass , you just brought it to the first observer and you were out of there , gone for the entire weekend .
we knew about this and billy had done his homework .
he found a guy that hunted snakes in that area .
we get the go ahead and everybody heads into the trees , but billy goes about twenty feet , stops and cuts a branch , takes a coil of thin rope out of his pocket and makes a hoop contraption .
then he makes a fork thing with another branch , finds the kind of spot this guy told him to look for , and ten minutes later , viola , hes got two rattlesnakes .
we must have dug about ten of them out of this bank , and ten minutes later we are back on the road with our go to fun passes .
this thing started at seven in the morning and by ten , billy and i are heading off base for a long weekend .
almost half the guys didnt get back until sunday night after the aggressors let them go .
i guess it was no picnic .
i decided right there to stick close to billy .
i was wondering how billy got wounded , you were there ?
manny asked .
yeah , all three times , tainer said .
i never did get hit myself , cant figure out why i was so lucky .
i guess billy exposed himself more , and i was more of a chicken , but extremely lucky for sure .
one of the older guys in the section , he was there before us , told me that he had smelled a bullet go by .
i said , yeah , right , and passed it off as bs .
one day a round went just under my nose , the snap got my attention and i could smell the cordite .
i wish hollywood could get that part right , tainer continued .
there are two things that piss me off about the way they make movies .
one is the actors are always cocking their guns , you know , to let the audience know something is going to happen .
the macho man move .
thats such bullshit !
any idiot that walks around without a bullet in the chamber is not going to last very long .
and two , when a high powered round passes , it doesnt whine , or buzz , it snaps .
the bullet is traveling faster than the speed of sound and the sonic boom is real evident .
when somebody shoots at you , the first thing you hear is the snap , right where the bullet passes and then the boom from the gun because the bullet gets to you before the sound from the gun .
the first time billy got wounded , it was kind of my fault .
we were with a platoon , like five days after they had shipped us up to con tien .
it used to be this old french fort sitting on top of a plateau overlooking the river to north viet nam .
we had been out in the bush for three days , kind of scouting the area .
we were heading back in and ran into this platoon also going back in .
we hooked up with them and damn if they werent told to stop and spend the night a couple of clicks short of the base .
we didnt want to try getting back in at night because the crazy fuckers on the line would shoot at anything after it got dark .
seeing we didnt carry radios , it was always the best to go in with units that did .
so we started to dig in , but the ground was harder than hell .
billy dug out about two feet , and then i took over .
i got lazy and figured it was enough .
the vc hit us with mortars that night , and i got in the hole first , but it wasnt deep enough and a piece of shrapnel caught billy in the back of the neck .
he wasnt hurt too bad or anything , just bleeding like hell .
they called in choppers to get the two kias and four wounded .
he was gone for about four days , came back with a big bandage on his neck and a purple heart .
he never said anything to me , but it was a big screw up on my part .
from that time on , i never took anything for granted .
i could have gotten him killed just by being lazy .
that place con tien , like i said , was an old french fort .
when we got there it was really pretty , this old stone fort all broken down , but covered with vines and moss .
after we left three months later it was nothing but a pile of mud .
between us and our bunkers and trenches , and the nva pounding the place with mortars and artillery it was kind of sad looking .
the second time was just a nasty cut on his hand .
we spotted an ambush developing , the walsh one , and after it was over billys hand was bloody .
he didnt even know he was hit .
the corpsman fixed it right there .
the third time was a beaut , a cluster fuck from the word go .
were on this landing strip , a whole battalion , four companies of marines waiting to be loaded on choppers for a big operation .
it was hotter than hell , and we sat there from eight in the morning , and by noon , half the marines were sick from the heat or being scared .
the original plan was to start dropping the first elements in first thing in the morning .
that way they could get the whole battalion in by dark .
at noon , nobody had even seen a chopper .
billys saying , boy this is going to be fun , great bunch of warriors we have here .
we knew where we were going , it was a bad , bad place , billy and i , and a couple of the other teams had gone in there .
we had scoped it out .
it was not a good place for large operations , a narrow valley , one way in , one way out .
we had found bunkers on both sides of the valley , and worst of all , only one lz .
finally , at almost twelve thirty the chinooks show up , theyre the big twin rotor choppers .
a big , big target .
the first group loads up at one , six chinooks , with fifteen marines apiece .
the first group is dropped in the lz at one thirty , and its hotter than hell .
the guys put on the ground have more than half their water gone already .
within half an hour , fifty percent of the people on the ground are down with heat stroke .
we go in the second group .
billy and i loaded in the rear of the chopper right next to the ramp , on purpose .
billy and i both know the supposed lz and are wondering whats up when the choppers go right over it and continue up the valley , dropping altitude .
as the bird flares , it starts taking hits , shit flying around inside , then a big fireball above our heads , up in the turbines .
billy goes out the door , and i follow , a long jump of about thirty feet into a flooded rice paddy .
we start the day totally covered in stinking mud .
the chinook pilot did a hell of a job and kept the wounded bird upright , smashing hard into the edge of the paddy .
we didnt know the extent of the casualties because billy and i headed to the other side of the paddy to set up a perimeter .
the rest of day is spent getting the heat stroke and combat casualties out , and a few supplies in .
the nva didnt harass us at all the rest of the day and that night , but billy and i , and one other team had moved up into the high ground and spotted a lot of activity .
nothing major , but we got glimpses of small nva units moving all around us .
it was obvious that we were surrounded so we refrained from shooting .
what had happened was the geniuses planning the operation had changed the lz at the last moment , moving it father up the valley .
they didnt realize that the low clouds didnt burn off until later in the day , the farther up the valley they went .
that was the reason for the big delay .
so here we sit , less than a fourth of the planned number on the ground , and a whole night for the north vietnamese to plan a big reception for the next day .
and get this , they still planned on bringing in the rest of the battalion at day break .
they couldnt put two and two together and figure out that the next day was going to be the same , socked in until at least noon .
that night we moved down to the valley , ready to hook up with the first unit we could find .
we were looking for some kind of defensive position and some marines to help us hold on to it .
we found a platoon from h company , lieutenant wynn was the officer .
he was cool , had about six months in country .
if you had something to say , he listened .
he was also concerned because he was originally supposed to be the left flank , but with all the screw ups , he was just trying to make some sort of position .
he laughed when we reported what we knew , telling us that the original operational plans were still in effect , even though we had been dropped seven miles away from the original lz .
in the morning , the powers that be figured we could all just pack up and get to where we were supposed to be , on foot .
wynn wasnt too happy when we informed him of all the activity we had spotted .
we tell wynn , we are in big trouble , expect lots of casualties .
wynn says he suspects were right , but he cant stop it , no one listens to a lowly lieutenant .
we confer billy , myself , the other team , wilkes and a new guy sanders , and tell wynn that its likely that the nva are planning something .
dont expect them to just hit and run in the morning .
he gets his orders , move out at dawn , and we just laugh .
we know we arent going anywhere the nva dont want us to , and it is going to be impossible to get air cover until at least noon .
we tell him , god damnit wynn .
theyre waiting for you .
at day break , wynn splits up his force , sending two separate groups to look for a defensive position .
he actually disobeys orders , and doesnt head for the original lz .
hes a smart guy that ends up saving many his men that day .
that night , he informed us that almost half of his men were green , five on their first field trip .
we had spotted a small rise covered in grass the day before , and our group went to check it out .
if we could dig in there it would be the best place .
this all depended on whether the nva were already there or not .
we scoped the hill from a mile and didnt see any movement , but that didnt guarantee anything .
we had to cross this narrow paddy to get there and going across we started taking fire .
if the nva are on the hill to the front we are in deep shit , but we get lucky and get the hill .
there are some experienced guys in the group and they start to dig in .
the squad leader called wynn , telling him to head our way , now !
wynn makes it to the paddy and starts across taking heavy fire from his rear .
weve got a good position and hold the nva away from him .
i dont think the nva following him expected us to be able to get hits at half a mile .
wynn gets across with only a couple of casualties , nothing life threatening .
by ten oclock we are dug in good , and wynn has told his men that it looks good , despite the obvious fact that some of the other units are engaged in heavy fighting .
we can hear it over the radio , and the sounds of battle fill the valley .
wynn calls in a couple of artillery rounds just to spot and mark as a precaution .
just before eleven the shit hits the fan .
there are nva all over us .
by three that afternoon wynn is dead , he exposed himself continually playing lieutenant until he got it .
billys been hit twice , once in the elbow , once a glancing blow in the chest , but is still fighting , yelling bip !
every time he drops one .
sanders is dead , he was shot in the back .
he couldnt pull himself up to fight anymore so he loaded empty magazines until he died .
wilkes is out of action , bad head wound , and more than half of wynns men are down .
by some miracle im still unscratched .
it got so intense the sounds of the battle were drowned out .
i could only sense the mechanical clicking of the 16 as i fired and fired .
i found a target , pulled the trigger , the rifle clacked , jumped a little , and i looked for the next target .
we got intensive air cover about then , and the nva broke off .
the rest of the night we spent hunkered down , expecting the worst , but it never came .
the night action was farther down the valley .
i think we were about the only prepared position in the whole damn mess , and the nva took too many casualties trying to get to us and went after easier targets that night .
they got us out by midmorning the next day , the dust offs coming in through the soup .
billy was taken to a hospital , and that was the last time i saw him , until he came to see us a couple of years later .
i kind of laid low the rest of my tour , about six weeks , and went home a happy man .
did you know billy had gotten married ?
manny asked .
no , he hadnt the last time i talked to him .
yeah , had a little girl too .
they were both murdered .
manny tells tainer the story .
then about his going to yuma and meeting with the man that did it , eddy crane .
you looked this guy up , are you nuts ?
i couldnt help myself , manny said , sheepishly .
before i knew it , i was there talking to him .
i didnt know what else to do .
boy , if youre going to get in the information gathering business you need to plan things out a little better .
that man could be dangerous !
i doubt if he suspected me .
im sure hes going to wonder if he doesnt hear from you , or are you planning to contact him again ?
no , no , i just wanted to see what a man that could do those things would look like .
i guess my curiosity got the best of me .
i dont know manny , exposing yourself like that isnt too smart ?
i hope youre right , but dont be surprised if he shows up .
after all you did offer him something .
hes going to expect you to come through .
when are you planning to go back home ?
tainer asked .
well , you got me the return for tonight , i guess ill take that one .
look , ive got some time tomorrow , middle of the day .
why dont you stay until tomorrow evening , we can get together again ?
you probably need to start your christmas shopping .
i know i always put mine off until the last minute .
new yorks a great place to shop .
yeah , youre right about that .
i could probably get something really special for cassey .
i need to let her know i still love her , and not billy , considering the time ive spend on this adventure .
great , its all set then .
ill have my secretary take care of it .
look , i feel bad about getting you to stay over and then not be able to spend any time with you tonight , but i am really tied up .
i have prior commitments that would bore the hell out of you .
give me your room and cell number and if i can get free , ill call .
oh , dont worry , new york is a great city to spend an evening in .
i can think of lots to do .
besides , i dont take the phone with me , i hate the damn thing .
did billy have a nickname ?
manny asked , back in marks office the next morning , standing , looking out the window .
yes , ollie , tainer answered .
ollie sven .
manny turned to tainer , grinning , a cocky look on his face and laughed .
billy was telling you guys those jokes ?
oh yeah , we laughed our asses off .
where did ollie and sven come from ?
theyre a common minnesota joke repertoire , the swedish meatballs , billy called them .
you know , manny hesitated , thinking .
billy made up many of those jokes himself .
it was like he had an inside to the characters tell me about lena , mark said , leaning forward .
billy said he knew a real life one .
oh god , that would be cassey !
manny exclaimed .
how did he describe her ?
oh , let me think now , ah lets see .
this lena was this nordic blond bomb shell that was ollies girl .
the way he put it , we all fell in love immediately .
she had um , i cant remember quite how it goes , wheels and motor something .
she had hellacious wheels , all the way up to her motor ?
manny finished , laughing again .
yeah , thats it !
id just think about billys graphic description of lena and save lot of strain on my hand , tainer hesitated .
ah , arent we talking about your wife ?
oh , dont worry , cassey loved it .
i dont know about you guys cutting down on the revs , but she loved being a part of billys making everybody laugh .
its strange how you can forget something important like that .
it just slips out of your mind and then all at once it surfaces again .
you having a flash back ?
yeah , i was thinking about ollie and sven , i was sven .
thats how close we all were .
billy , cassey and i .
god , it was great times .
id forgotten how hilarious billy could be .
boy , that was a long time ago .
manny made a clicking sound with his tongue , looking out the window again , a faraway look transfixing on his face .
before he went away .
manny turned back to mark with a serious look .
i wish i would have done something to rekindle that friendship .
now its too late .
better late , than never .
but what does it do for the billys of the world , the ones that are gone and forgotten ?
maybe they get remembered , like they deserve .
but i missed the chance to tell him to his face .
how i appreciated him for being billy .
thats what should have happened , not the indifference we ended up having for each other .
well , apathy among friends is ridiculous , so to cleanse thy soul , why not tell it to me , tainer said .
im sort of guilty too .
id like to hear more about billy , what he was like before he fell into that meat grinder .
manny looked at tainer , feeling a kinship .
billy was funnier than hell and could get away with almost everything he did , manny said , finally coming to sit down .
teachers loved him .
in eighth grade we would have film days .
billy taped a playboy center fold on the screen and rolled it back up .
the teacher pulled the screen down and everyone started laughing .
the teacher had his back to the screen so he couldnt figure it out .
finally this girl in the front row gets him to turn around .
he looked at the picture for a bit and shook his head .
i guess ill be seeing mr. palmer after class , he said , taking the pinup down .
i stopped after hockey practice , and billy and this teacher are shooting the breeze , just like old friends .
chapter 23 come on doggy , hop on in , cassey said to george of the jungle as she held the drivers seat forward for him to get in the back .
her suv , was still inside the garage .
george took his customary position in the back seat on the floor .
george loved to go with her , but she could never figure out why because he stayed on the floor and was never seen .
she figured it was his favorite place to sleep .
its thursday , and every tuesday and thursday afternoon she drove five miles on the back roads to the high school in the next town for her aerobics class .
cassey was very diligent about her exercise .
she hadnt missed a class in a long time .
as she backed out of the garage , she thought about how manny would hate this day , cloudy and gray , the forecast calling for another six to ten inches of snow .
i know manny has never liked winter , and i shouldnt feel annoyed about him leaving again , considering how bad the weather is going to get .
he seems happier this year , the traveling has been good for him .
cassey smiled at the thought .
and the billy project .
i know hes been bored at work for years , ever since andy died .
andy was such a pain in the butt .
manny had to take up the slack , but since then it has all gone smooth and manny has built a great business .
he doesnt have much to do there anymore , it all runs so well .
now hes got something to sink his teeth into .
cassey had made it out of town , driving down the two lane road for the neighboring high school .
it started to snow , but she liked the white soothing calm it brought her .
cassey was thinking about why she and manny felt so differently about this season .
its the quietness that i love about winter , the stillness and the slowed down pace .
lost in speculation , cassey barely noticed a big , black truck behind her and gave it no thought .
the road was bordered on both sides by high snow banks made by the snow plows , and a little farther back , big trees .
there were very few houses out this way , the area was known for its wildness .
cassey was cruising along , enjoying the scenery .
the new snow was heavy and wet , sticking to the branches of the trees .
she looked into the rear view mirror , and the black truck was right on her tail , getting ready to pass her .
some dork in a hurry , not appreciating the winter wonderland .
she sighed , as the truck swung out to pass and charged forward .
the truck went past , moving out in front of her suv , when suddenly its brake lights came on , startling her .
the black truck turned right in front of her , starting to slide sideways , blocking the road .
cassey jammed on her brakes .
goddamn idiot !
cassey shouted , as the big truck continued to brake right in front of her .
the black truck lost control , and the rear end slid out , brushing the tall snow bank on the far side of the road .
cassey also continued braking , staying behind the out of control truck .
the big truck continued sideways down the road , loosing speed , but still blocking the road .
the truck came to a stop and so did cassey .
the truck was ten feet in front of her suv , and her first thought was , thank god there was no accident .
the drivers side door of the truck , facing away from her , opened and a smallish man appeared , trotting around the front of the black truck .
cassey wasnt alarmed at first , but she suddenly realized the man had a ski mask covering his face , and was headed right for her .
cassey instinctively hit the power lock , securing the doors to the suv , as the man ran up to her window .
she was just about to put the suv in reverse , when the attacker pulled a metal bar out of his coat with his left hand , and swung wildly at her side window , smashing it in , covering her in shattered glass .
she had the suv in reverse , and rammed the throttle down .
cassey operated the four wheel drive vehicle in two wheel drive most of the time because she was told it uses less gas that way .
the suvs rear wheels spun on the icy road , and the vehicle hardly moved , as her assailant reached in through the shattered window .
the man grabbed for the inside door handle , grasping it with his left hand , pulling the handle up and opening the door .
he backed off slightly , allowing the door to open enough so there was room for him to reach into the cab , to grab for cassey .
cassey was scrambling away from him toward the passengers side of the cab , kicking at him with her legs , screaming as loud as she could .
the shrieking hurt his ears as he started to move toward the panicking cassey , trying to grab one of her thrashing legs .
the first indication that something was amiss was the heavy , musky smell the assailant detected moments before he was hit .
the sudden , violent attack from the back seat was totally unexpected , as george of the jungle rammed the man with one hundred pounds of furry and savage teeth .
before the attacker realized what had happened , george grabbed his right upper arm in his huge mouth , and was driving him back out of casseys suv .
georges massive weight drove them both down toward the icy roadway .
the attacker got lucky , as georges momentum carried the huge dog over him , loosening the crushing grip on his arm , both of them spinning around , temporarily separated .
the man ended up on his knees , with george stretched out on the slippery road , his legs splayed out , churning and slipping , trying to get back to his feet , to renew the assault .
the dog , unable to get a solid footing , allowed the man just enough room and time to swing the metal rod , violently , producing a lucky shot , catching george at the back of the skull , knocking the dog back down with a sickening crunch .
the man and george collapsed back on the slippery roadway .
the man tried to stand on the ice , dropping the metal bar , managing to get to his knees first , his jacket torn and his right arm hanging weakly .
he grabbed his damaged arm above the elbow with the other hand and stood slowly , looking into the suv , to cassey .
she had the glove box open and was fumbling around in it .
the man had no idea what may be in there and he was hurt too bad to continue the assault .
blood was dripping from his damaged arm , on to the roadway , as he headed back for the black truck , stumbling and sliding around the front , trying to reach the still open drivers door .
casseys was in shock , finally getting the cell phone she pulled out of the glove box turned on , her breath coming in short , thick gasps .
she moved like she was in a dream , slowly , deliberately , as she watched the man painfully pull the door of his truck shut .
she sat back up behind her steering wheel , gripping it with white knuckles , as the black truck backed up , stopped , started forward , turning to accelerate straight down the road , away from her .
as the assailants truck disappeared into the falling snow , cassey sat ridged , frosty , short contrails of breath shooting out of her mouth .
she tried to slow her breathing , trying to piece together what had just happened .
she was uncertain what to do next , now that the danger was gone .
it wasnt until she looked out the open door of the suv and saw her beloved george laying still on the cold road that she finally reacted , picking the phone off the seat and dialing quickly .
the first sheriff car arrived a few minutes later , and found cassey sitting in the road , crying .
her tears were frozen to her cheeks , georges head cradled in her lap .
the deputy recognized mrs. anderson immediately and when he asked her what happened , she responded with , that son of a bitch killed my dog .
the deputy was slightly confused , getting cassey to respond any farther was difficult .
she was holding on to the dog tightly , and the officer couldnt get her to let loose , or answer any of his questions .
the deputy was kneeling down , his hand on her shoulder , trying to question the despondent cassey .
ill never forgive that son of a bitch for this , cassey said , finally looking up to the deputy , a look of anger in her tear streaked eyes .
whos that mam , who did this ?
asked deputy auburn .
he hadnt a clue yet about what happened .
that fuckin manny , i warned him !
this is his fault !
cassey shouted .
manny anderson , thats your husband , right ?
he did this ?
auburn asked .
he couldnt leave it alone , and this is what happened !
auburn stroked georges head , looking for clues and noticed some blood on the dogs mussel .
he pulled the skin back to look at the teeth .
are you hurt mam , theres blood he started to comment , but noticed the metal rod lying on the road and then the trail of blood leading away to tire tracks heading off down the road .
he correctly surmised that mrs. anderson had been involved in a serious incident .
who killed your dog ?
the deputy asked , starting the investigation .
that fuckin manny , its his fault !
i warned him !
cassey shouted , as the deputy quickly headed back to his patrol car and called for more officers .
he went to see a guy in arizona !
cassey shouted to the deputy as he sat half in , half out of his patrol car .
thats the guy that killed george !
your husband knows the man that did this ?
the deputy shouted back .
he doesnt know him , he just went to see him !
cassey explained .
chapter 24 a little later cassey was sitting in the police station , still a little shaky , grasping a hot cup of coffee with both hands .
a detective in a heavy woolen shirt , jeans , and snow mobile boots was sitting backwards in a chair .
his arms were crossed , elbows resting on the back of the chair , his chin resting on his wrists .
the detective wasnt saying anything , waiting for cassey to compose herself .
did you find the guy ?
cassey asked , looking to the detective .
were not exactly sure who to look for , yet ?
got any ideas ?
the deputy answered .
i told the first sheriff , look for a guy from arizona .
he had arizona plates on the big black truck ?
i dont know , but the guy my husband went to see lives in arizona .
i see .
weve been trying to contact your husband , but it seems that his whereabouts are unknown .
he left no itinerary ?
the detective asked .
no , i dont know where he is , just in new york .
he usually phones home every evening .
is this normal , going on a trip , and you dont know where to contact him ?
you know , just in case ?
the detective added with a note of skepticism in his voice .
no , this trip was a spur of the moment , and i guess , i forgot to ask , and he didnt tell .
manny and i base our relationship on trust .
it is not uncommon for us to be out of contact a day or two , now and then .
i let him have his space , and he lets me have mine .
i see , but i talked to his secretary and shes in the dark too .
says mr. anderson had no business come up in new york as far as she knows .
whats going on mrs. anderson ?
this attack doesnt seem random .
it looks like someone knew your habits and had a plan .
i told you , the guy from arizona .
manny was trying to put the screws to him .
this guy has no name , as far as you know ?
the deputy commented with a note of sarcasm in his voice .
we cant start picking up people just because they happen to be from arizona , now can we ?
dont patronize me , cassey shot back .
my husband only mentioned his name once and im sorry , but i cant remember it .
im sorry too mam , but obviously there was a crime committed .
youve got a dead dog , and there is blood at the scene .
the mention of george started cassey crying again .
so im not doubting your story , but i need information .
i want to solve this as fast as i can .
the longer we trifle , the farther away the perp gets , understand ?
poor george , he was such a nice doggy , cassey sobbed .
i dont know what to tell you .
until i hear from my husband , i dont know how to help you , casseys volume went up .
i cant remember the name !
she shouted frustrated .
thats okay mrs. anderson , calm down .
weve put out a description of the truck , and if the man used a hotel or rented it , and if he was dumb enough to add an arizona address , we might get lucky .
youre sure about the gloves , he never took them off .
no , cassey sniffled .
im positive he had them on the whole time .
well , ive got the crime team going over your truck anyway .
you never know .
about this physical description you gave us , this is a little vague .
he was wearing a lot of clothes , its very cold out , you know .
yes , i know .
mrs. anderson , are you sure there isnt anything you could tell us about the man , any little thing that we could use ?
i already told you , he had a ski mask on so i couldnt possibly tell you anything about his face , but his ears stuck out , i think ?
thats good , thats a start .
im sorry , but after i saw the ski mask , i sort of got excited .
i dont think i was paying too much attention to him .
i was just thinking about getting away .
i want you to try to recall anything about this man , about his features , his shape , his movements , anything .
the detective pushed back from the chair and stood up .
oh , officer , cassey cried , reaching for her purse , then rummaging around inside .
i just remembered , theres a publisher in new york my husband might call , at least he was supposed to .
cassey handed the officer the number of mark tainer .
the detective returned after about fifteen minutes .
mrs. anderson , does the name edward crane mean anything to you ?
thats the guy , cassey shouted , standing up quickly , thats the guy from arizona .
you got him ?
no , just the name .
if you didnt catch him , how do you know his name ?
cassey asked suspiciously .
the publisher , mark tainer , i just spoke to him and he did talk with your husband .
mr. anderson informed this mark tainer about an edward crane , and some beef with the va. im not sure what the total story is , but at least we have a name now .
mr. tainer sends his best .
im sending you home with a deputy and she will remain with you until we get a better picture of whats going down .
is that okay ?
i , i ya , i guess so .
you couldnt find my husband ?
no , but i sure do want to talk to him .
mr. tainer said mr. anderson told him he had to meet with a business associate from arizona .
cassey looked at the detective with a startled look on her face .
as soon as you get home check your messages , and have mr. anderson call me if you speak to him .
i mean right away mrs. anderson .
the detective was very stern sounding .
cassey was at home sitting on the couch , the fireplace roaring .
shed taken a shower , had a little to eat and was working on her second drink .
a female deputy , carrie conner , was there with her .
cassey was feeling a little better , except when she thought about george , but she was confident the second drink will help there too .
when cassey had gotten home there was a phone message from manny .
he would arrive minneapolis 5 16 p.m. standard time and cassey relayed it to the detective .
detective swenson said he would be at the gate when manny arrived .
at 5 46 p. m. casseys phone rang , and conners answered it as agreed .
its your husband .
carrie said , as she handed the phone to cassey .
cassey !
manny was breathing hard .
my god , are you all right ?
where are you ?
she asked , a very unfriendly tone in her voice im still in the airport .
i just got the word .
there was a detective swenson waiting for me .
cassey , are you all right ?
yeah , im okay , but george is dead .
i know , the detective told me , manny said sadly .
youre okay though , thats all that matters .
yeah , im okay , but thats not all that matters , manny !
you screwed up manny !
anderson , you pulled a boner and you got george killed , and im pissed .
hey , we dont know what happened yet manny was contrite , trying to defend himself because he knew cassey and could hear the anger in her voice .
cassey cut him off .
screw you bub !
i warned you !
this irresponsible shit , running all over , your head stuck up your tail pipe , and now george is dead !
i loved that dog , manny , and hes dead , because you screwed up !
cassey slammed the phone down .
manny held the disconnected phone in his hand , looking at it .
detective swenson was watching him .
boy , shes pissed , manny said , putting the receiver back .
i can tell when she starts using the word screwed .
that means somebodys going to .
somebody tried to kill her .
if it was me , id be a little upset to , swenson said .
my advice is get on home , shell calm down .
i hope so , otherwise im in big trouble .
have you got a line on this crane character yet ?
not yet , sir , but i dont really know the story .
i had someone drive me in so we can discuss this on the trip back to red pine .
swenson picked up mannys overnight bag .
chapter 25 manny finally got home at 10 00 p.m .
it was a grueling drive because the detective was relentless , going over and over what manny had to tell him , taking notes constantly , asking the same questions .
the house was dark when the garage door slid up and manny drove in .
when he came through the door to the kitchen he saw a lamp on in the den area .
he didnt see the light when he came up the driveway and was startled by a strange voice when he walked into the room .
welcome home mr. anderson , dont be alarmed .
my name is carrie conner and im with the county sheriffs office .
im here to look after your wife .
shit lady , no one told me youd be here .
im sorry , id have thought you would have been informed .
some policy youve got , i could have died from a heart attack or something .
im sorry sir , some sort of oversight .
i guess !
wheres my wife ?
shes asleep , down in one of the boys rooms .
we thought it would be best .
id like to see her , if thats all right ?
oh , of course , go right ahead .
ill be here if you need me .
im sure you will , manny snapped because he was on edge .
first the news about cassey and george , now the police taking over his life .
he had never been involved in any kind of situation concerning the law , and it was unsettling how overwhelming the experience had become .
they definitely do take charge , crossed his mind as he went down the hall .
he found cassey in donnys room , the last bedroom down the hall .
as he entered he could smell the slight odor of alcohol .
cassey seldom drank , and this was a bad omen .
he sat on the bed wondering how to approach the situation finally made it , huh ?
cassey was turned away from him so her voice was faint .
rough day , huh ?
manny said sheepishly because he didnt know what else to say .
not as rough as georges .
manny could detect the anger in her voice .
geez , im going to miss that big lummox , manny added .
should have thought about that before , mr. cassey rolled a little toward her back .
a little late now .
why are you acting like i made some terrific booboo , and now youre paying for it ?
manny started losing his cool .
because that is exactly how it went !
cassey shouted , turning all the way to face him .
jesus christ manny , what a dumb fuck thing to do .
you go and threaten a guy thats a known killer , and when he responds , you go whoops !
fucking duh , manny !
for your information , the police arent certain that crane had anything to do with it .
they found him , and guess what ?
no dog bites .
whatre they trying to pull ?
cassey moved up onto her elbows .
george got him good , i saw the blood .
they got crane in phoenix and checked him out , and no dog bites .
you tell me ?
i , im too tired to work this out , so go up to bed , and well do it in the morning .
cassey plopped back down and rolled away from manny .
you coming up ?
manny asked .
not with you , cassey snorted .
ah huh , manny said , heading out of the room .
im in deep dudu on the home front .
manny , you find someone else i can blame for this , and youre off the hook , but not until .
cassey said loudly , as he left the room .
chapter 26 manny came into the kitchen the next morning , the smell of fresh coffee drawing him there .
it was just starting to get light outside , still too dark to judge what kind of day it will be weather wise , but a dreary day is the least of my worries .
cassey was sitting at the breakfast bar , talking on the phone .
manny walked up , putting both hands on her shoulders , and she stopped talking , he tried to message her the way she liked it .
normally , cassey would relax , letting her shoulders drop to enjoy the sensation .
this morning however , she stiffened , hinting that the attempt at reconciliation is not wanted .
manny removed his hands and sighed .
who you talking to ?
mom and dad ?
oh , tell them hi .
manny moved off , headed toward the coffee .
cassey didnt resume the conversation until he was around the bar , out of hearing range .
as he poured his cup full he can hear cassey talking again in a hushed , guarded volume .
he walked over to the window and looked out .
it had gotten a little bit lighter , so he could see .
it was not a real dismal day , partly cloudy , but it looked cold out there .
he looked around the yard , subconsciously waiting for george to appear , and then it hit him .
for the first time since this hammer has come down on his life he feels the real loss .
george is gone , and cassey blames him .
manny turned and looked to cassey as she put the phone down and looked at him .
i talked to detective swenson just before my parents , she said calmly .
has he figured out what the hell is going on ?
manny asked hopefully .
no , he called to say he was on his way to phoenix .
good , hell get to the bottom of this , manny tried to sound confident .
manny , im going to my parents .
when ?
manny asked surprised .
ive got to get packed , marilyns coming to get me .
shell drive me to the bus station , cassey said getting up .
but ?
manny said , walking toward cassey .
detective swenson thinks its a good idea , cassey said , dogging him , backing out of the room .
swenson ?
manny was confused and angry .
yes , he would like me to go somewhere until he can get some answers .
he says that it was supposed to look random , but he feels it was planned .
i was the target .
hes not sure , but he feels that you might have something to do with this , cassey said sadly .
he cant do that !
manny yelled .
he cant accuse me with no justification .
what the hell does that guy think hes doing ?
manny , i dont care , im leaving for a while .
im so frightened , or angry , or both , i dont know what to do ?
cassey was talking fast , and manny could sense that she didnt want to give him an opening to defend himself .
the boys and i will be spending christmas with my parents .
i dont want you talking to donny or danny , understand .
theyll just be confused , just like i am .
youre shutting me off from my family ?
manny pleaded .
what about my side of the issue ?
your side screwed up !
cassey declared .
stop saying that !
manny shouted .
i doesnt make any difference , you are at fault .
either you or crane did this .
what if it was just a random thing ?
swenson says , not the case .
they found the black truck in the minneapolis airport .
it was a rental , stolen credit card .
theres blood in the cab , its not a match with the blood they have , yet , but detective swenson is sure it will be .
detective swenson is very sure of himself .
does anyone realize this is my life thats being turned upside down ?
were you attacked manny ?
cassey shouted .
no .
well , i was , and to tell you the truth , im glad i have someone looking out for my well being because you , my husband , are doing little to comfort me right now .
youre pushing me away , you dont trust me .
what can i do with that ?
cassey looked at him , and he could see no sympathy in her stare .
her glare was broken when she looked past him to the window .
manny turned , as marilyn gwynns car was coming up the drive .
nasty bitch must be loving this , manny said under his breath .
manny and marilyn dont like each other , never did .
i suppose the town crier has spread the word ?
manny said angrily , nodding toward the driveway .
only worried about your image , huh manny ?
hey , im an innocent man .
i dont have anything else to worry about .
well see , cassey said , hurrying past manny .
cassey wasted no time , she and marilyn had packed her things in the car and were ready to go in fifteen minutes .
manny noted this was some sort of record .
first time shes not going to not be late for something , and i dont get to enjoy it , figures .
cassey was serious about leaving and leaving quick , so manny didnt even try to talk .
marilyn gave him knowing little smiles whenever she walked by him .
manny didnt know why cassey had remained friends with her for all these years .
marilyn has had four husbands and all four agree that it was the worst experience of their lives .
marilyn is also the town gossip and resident trouble maker .
marilyn spends her days deflecting all the turbulence she causes , by making everyone elses lives miserable .
the ultimate drama queen , manny silently surmised , watching marilyn rejoice in his ruined life .
i trust you can handle everything here , without screwing anything else up ?
ill call when i get there , cassey said as she walked out the door , rushing to the car .
she didnt even look his way , as marilyn backs down the drive , the smirk still on her face .
a sheriffs car pulled in behind as an escort .
manny stood in the door for a couple of minutes , thinking , uncertain on how to proceed .
finally getting cold , he turned around to go inside .
deputy conner was still there , standing in the living room looking at him .
ah , can i help you ?
manny didnt know what else to say because hes growing tired of the police .
id like to ask you a few questions , if you dont mind ?
conner answered .
and maybe look around .
you the second squad ?
you might say that .
that doesnt offend you , i hope , i mean , talking to a woman .
oh hell no , youre probably the only woman thats going to talk to me anyway .
im sorry , sir , but these things do have a way of disrupting peoples lives .
christ , these people come from a mold .
manny recognized the condescending sneakiness , first noticing it in swensons methods .
what can i help you with , coffee maybe , for a starter ?
manny asked .
no , ive had my fill , thank you .
too much and ill have sparks flying between my fingertips , the deputy said .
ha , ha , thats a good one , havent heard it before , manny returned , laughing .
what can i help you with , then ?
i would like to look around house , as part of the investigation .
if you dont mind ?
dont you need a search warrant ?
of course , if you dont want me to ?
but , if you just give me your permission , then its okay .
im kind of getting my feet wet in investigations , so the sheriff felt this might be a good place to learn , carrie said , not indicating that to refuse would add any suspicion to her mind .
im just trying to see if anything can lead us to who attacked your wife .
you never know what might be here the buggers , they want something to tie me to it .
well , let them look .
manny was angry , but the intrusions dont look like they will dissipate for the near future .
deputy carrie headed toward the rear of the house , manny following .
he watched her , wondering what shes looking for , interested to see how she goes about it .
is there something i can help you with mr. anderson ?
manny can tell the deputy is uncomfortable with him watching .
no , i can help you deputy !
you see this is my house !
i was going to help you find your way around .
any problems with that ?
do you have any idea what may have started all this ?
no , sir , i dont have the slightest idea .
then , what the hell are you supposed to be looking for ?
i guess , i wont know , until i find it .
i dont believe you fuckin people , manny shouted .
a crimes committed , and you throw out a net so big you dont know what youre dragging in .
i think a sense of responsibility might be called for , dont you ?
i was only instructed to by who deputy ?
manny interrupted .
whos your leader ?
deputy carrie just looked at him , either unwilling , or unable to understand what hes asking .
whos in charge of the pod ?
manny finally resorted to cynicism .
im sorry , sir , my orders are to observe .
who gave you the supposed technique ?
manny waited and got nothing .
who told you how to observe ?
detective swenson is an expert on evidence gathering , conner stated .
ah huh , and what makes detective swenson an expert ?
he attended the fbis crime lab .
bingo !
tell me deputy , how many big cases have there been around here , since junior graduated from spy school ?
deputy conners said nothing , finally accepting the ribbing from manny .
he can tell , she doesnt know how to continue .
look , carrie , you want some insight on how this started , just ask me ?
dont presume that you are going to roam around my home , looking for something to dump on me with , because , i didnt have anything to do with my wifes attack .
pass that on to swenson when you talk to him , tell him ill take a lie detector test , just for him .
im sorry mr. anderson , im just trying to do my job , carrie replied emotionally .
geez i hope she doesnt start crying .
.
.unless its all a trick to whittle me down ?
deputy , has anyone mentioned the name billy palmer to you ?
manny asked .
conner , reached into her breast pocket and whipped out a note book , already back from the crisis .
the name was mentioned by your wife , i believe , carrie said , flipping pages .
jesus , shes got a book in there already .
manny thought , watching conner check her notes .
yes , here it is .
conner smiled proudly .
he was a vietnam vet , an old friend you were researching ?
is that right ?
researching .
.
.yeah deputy , i guess that would be right .
he was an old friend and i was looking into his life .
thats how i came across eddy crane , does that name ring a bell ?
yes , detective swenson has gone to phoenix to interrogate him .
good , youre on the ball .
now billy palmers life had a connection to this mr. crane , and i found out about it , and may have stirred something up .
that is probably why you and i are talking here now .
i see , conner said , writing furiously in her note book .
is there anything else i should know about this mr. palmer ?
my wife was compiling some things in her computer , its in the office down the hall .
do you know anything about them ?
yes , sir , thats my specialty , data recovery .
deputy carrie was excited because they had moved into her area .
fine , you have my permission to have a go at the monster machine , manny said gesturing toward the office , as the phone rang .
he followed conner to the office , the closest phone being in there .
conners sat down at the desk , as manny picked up the phone .
hello , my life is in the crapper , so dump away , manny said into the phone .
jiminy manny , what the heck is going on ?
carl andrews answered .
i just talked to fred maynard and he said you tried to kill cassey ?
what the heck is he talking about ?
great !
manny exclaimed , then hesitated , realizing how far this thing had really gotten already .
look carl , somebody attacked cassey , or tried to , george got in the way yeah , fred said you killed the dog too , carl cut him off .
you tell fred to can it , or hes next .
manny immediately regretted the comment because conner looked up at him , but at least she didnt go for the note book or her gun .
im kidding carl .
its just one of those stories thats gotten blown out of proportion .
marilyn gwynn is involved , sucking up to cassey .
oh , christ , carl rarely used anything even close to profanity , not her !
marilyn had been carls first sexual encounter way back in high school , and manny was sure it must have been traumatic for the inexperienced andrews .
marilyn the mauler had been her moniker back then .
none of what im hearing is true , is it ?
andrews asked softly .
of course not !
jesus carl , i cant believe anyone would think i could hurt cassey , but its a mess .
i know , i was just flabbergasted .
how you doing ?
oh , all right , i guess , but ive got cops up my butt .
man , they sure steam roll the situation .
thats their job manny , so be careful .
dont talk to them without representation .
oh , ive got nothing to hide .
theres one here now , going through casseys computer .
what , in your house ?
andrewss voice went up many notches .
yeah , whats the big deal ?
put them on the phone immediately .
manny had never heard andrews sound so authoritative .
oh settle down carl , like i said ive got nothing to hide .
manny , golldarnit , listen to me , please .
whoever is there , put them on the phone , now , do it !
manny had also never heard carl andrews with such gusto , so he handed the phone to deputy conner .
its for you .
this is carl andrews , mr. andersons attorney , would you please identify yourself ?
my name is carrie conner , mr. andrews .
and you are an officer of the court ?
yes , deputy carrie conners , county sheriffs office .
deputy conner , quit what youre doing , and stand back , until i get there .
i am manny andersons legal council .
do you understand ?
mr. anderson gave his permission , and i stop what you are doing , now , and give the phone back to mr. anderson , now deputy .
carrie reluctantly handed the phone to manny .
manny listen to me good .
do not say another thing until i get there , and get her away from that computer .
carl , youre over reacting manny , shut up and listen to me , carl interrupted .
dont take any chances with those people .
dont say another thing until i get there .
itll be about fifteen minutes .
you got me ?
if you think its important carl .
you never know , but just to be safe .
carl hung up .
well , you heard my attorney , the partys over , manny said , gesturing with his thumb for her to get up from the computer .
well , are you going to invite me in ?
carl andrews asked standing at mannys front door .
oh sorry carl , im just numb .
things are spiraling out of control .
thats why im here manny .
its like i told you , i have nothing to hide , why should i need a lawyer ?
to keep it that way .
i contacted that detective swenson on my way here , hes really tight lipped .
i think they are looking for a connection to you and some guy in arizona .
want to tell me the story ?
manny explained the situation as detailed as he could .
when he finished carl thought for a moment .
i think you should do the following , manny .
i know a sharp young lawyer in minneapolis , just got out of the prosecutors office .
hold on carl .
i thought you were interested in saving my bacon , now youre telling me about someone else .
manny , im not a criminal lawyer , but i know enough to know when you need some good protection .
believe me , the sheriffs department is going to be up your butt with a microscope , and you need someone to make sure that whatever they find is justified .
you have no idea how out of control these investigations can get , especially if someone is out to make a name .
you need someone to make sure that they cross their tees and dot their is .
swenson wants a meeting with you tomorrow afternoon , after five .
im sick of that guy , manny proclaimed .
look manny , hes in charge right now and hes fired up , so play his game , at least until we know what he thinks .
i guess .
good , i suggested we meet here at your house .
youll be more comfortable , and it makes it look like you have nothing to hide , at least here .
thanks carl , i have nothing to hide period .
you know what i mean .
is there anything in that computer ?
the one here ?
yes , the one youve been working on ?
i dont know , i dont know much about no , no , i mean is there anything youve put in there , any work youve done that you dont want anybody to see ?
no .
good , swenson wants the machine , and if its clean , id give it to them .
hey , they can have it .
i dont know how to do anything with it , and theyll see that i was only working billys life , like i said .
good , thats good , it will show swenson that youve been square with him .
chapter 27 the next afternoon , late , it was getting dark outside , and manny , carl , detective swenson , officers auburn and conners were all gathered in mannys kitchen , discussing the case .
we contacted yuma , pd and they went to eddy cranes home , but he wasnt there , can you imagine ?
swenson was chuckling .
they got lucky because a neighbor told them eddy went to minnesota .
the neighbor said eddy had called all disappointed and was coming home later that day .
we checked the flights and got lucky again .
eddy was apprehended in the phoenix airport at his connection to yuma .
thats great , good work swenson , carl andrews cheered .
yeah , cassey will be very happy , manny added .
i cant tell you h ive got a problem , manny , swenson interrupted .
what can be wrong , you got crane ?
andrews asked .
yeah , weve got crane , swenson said , and crane was in a motel in alexandria , but but what ?
what the hell else do you need ?
my god , the man came all the way from yuma arizona , to do what ?
andrews was getting flustered , and using profanity .
i dont know , but he has a story , and mr. anderson , swenson looked to manny , he has no dog bites , like i told you last night .
what the hell has that got to do with anything ?
manny shouted .
mr. anderson , manny , whoever was out there on that road with your wife left a blood trail from your suv to his vehicle .
the blood on georges teeth , and that blood trail , match types .
well get a better analysis later , but for now the main thing is , we know that your dog did some serious damage to whoever attacked your wife .
i went to phoenix and i saw that edward crane has no wounds matching a dog bite .
what are we supposed to make of that ?
i dont know , how could he possibly be hiding that ?
manny asked .
he cant manny , he was examined by doctors , and i saw him in person , and i repeat , there are no dog bite wounds anywhere on that mans body , period .
we have a problem .
then what the hell was he doing in alexandria , fifty minutes from here ?
have you considered an accomplice ?
yes , were working on that , but eddy is not to sharp .
he could be easily led , swenson used an accusatory tone , looking straight at manny .
eddy says he first got a call from an investigator .
this investigator said that his va benefits might be jeopardized .
a senator from minnesota was involved , pushing for an inquiry .
then he said he got another call , a different man .
this man said that he was the same man that spoke to him in person , days before , offered him money for his story .
know anything about this manny ?
that would be me , manny confessed which one would you be , manny ?
weve got a few characters in this plot .
im the one that called the senator .
who called eddy crane ?
not me , manny said defensively .
youre not leveling with me , mr. anderson , swenson said cynically .
yes i am !
i called mr. crane on his military record .
hes a liar , and i was going to do something about it .
you did call him then ?
no , no , a figure of speech .
i saw mr. crane a week ago , in person , in front of his home in yuma .
have you checked him out , hes a double murderer ?
i told you that in the car .
we know all about mr. crane , dont trouble yourself about that , but the problem is , mr. crane doesnt appear to be involved in this .
what about accomplishes , somebody with him ?
were working that now , but it doesnt look good .
eddy says he got a call from that other man , asking him to come to minnesota , to come and discuss a resolution to his problem .
eddy crane remembers you , manny , coming to his house , but he cant say if the voice on the phone either time was you .
and trust me manny , were looking for any connections to eddys itinerary .
so far , theres no other person , flight , rental car , hotel , etc. , in alexandria that doesnt fit .
same for a radius out fifty miles .
you know , for the accomplice youre hoping for , but manny , so far nothing .
eddys still screaming that hes been framed .
you know , he did nothing to hide the minnesota trip .
makes it look like hes telling the truth .
and phone records from eddys house show he got one call from minnesota and two from new york , prior to going to alexandria , swenson continued .
pay phones in the new york airport , the same day as your flight to new york , manny .
it wasnt me , i never called crane , manny declared .
then who did ?
swenson questioned .
how should i know !
manny answered , incredulously , annoyed .
click , the detective made the sound in his cheek .
you know , im pretty new at all this .
swenson looked manny directly in the eyes , boring in as he continued .
only been here , doing this about three years now , but you know what manny ?
what ?
manny responded , holding the detectives stare .
ive got this tremendous training , and all this high tech stuff to fool with swenson hesitated , still looking manny down .
get to the point detective , manny interrupted .
very well , manny .
swenson looked away .
i will find out what happened , yes i will .
anything you want to tell me ?
yeah , find out who the hell attacked my wife !
did you have anything to do with it ?
the detective asked the question slow and deliberate , looking out the window .
mr. anderson ?
i definitely did not !
manny said equally as planned .
and i do not appreciate you alienating my family from me , detective .
i know my job is supposed to be only solving crimes , swenson turned back to manny , but sometimes i dabble in crime prevention too , call it a hobby if you want .
this guy thinks hes a tv cop , playing the role of a lifetime .
hopes i might possibly be involved , and is going for the throat , just like prime time .
manny thought , then fired off .
hey swenson , tell me , who do you want to play you in the movie ?
any nordic hunks moving on up , or do you figure this will be the launching role for some new face ?
i take my job serious , mr. anderson .
not serious enough detective .
if you did a little local investigating you would find that cassey and i are happy together .
shes the soul mate in my life .
do you have one of those detective ?
people can change mr. anderson .
you have been doing a lot of unwarranted traveling lately .
no telling what has caught your interest lately .
you didnt answer my question .
do you understand what a soul mate is .
its not relevant to my investigation .
youre doing a wonderful job detective swenson , youre right on top of our transition into the age of robotics , with gratuitous distinction .
the detective finally had no answer , looking at manny formulating .
jesus , finally confused the bugger .
i wonder what they feed these bastards .
man , i was wondering if his dogma was iron clad , or what , scary shit .
manny decided to keep the advantage , saying nothing .
im just doing my job .
swenson finally said , leaving the advantage in mannys court .
good detective !
im only defending myself , so you dont end up wasting your time , coppice ?
can you appreciate that ?
i will explore all the possibilities , sir .
friggin didnt work for more than a second .
got to give this guy credit , if i was guilty the only thing to do now would be to confess and beg for mercy .
detective , i have no doubt that you will get your man , manny said honestly .
i think i already have .
deputy conners , swenson turned to her , would you inform mr. anderson of your discovery .
yes , i went through your computer mr. anderson , and i cant find any files pertaining to this billy palmer , deputy conner said .
well , deputy , there is nothing in there about billy , just his writing .
there is nothing about billy palmer or anything he wrote in that computer , mr. anderson .
deputy , listen to what i say .
he wrote a story called timtown .
its the story that is in the computer , not anything about billy , per say .
im sorry , sir , but that information is also missing .
that cant be , how would it be missing ?
that is what i would like to ask you , manny ?
piped up swenson .
swenson , i know nothing about them machines .
manny said , pointing at the computer .
the only thing i could be guilty of would be losing information , not getting rid of it .
i only know what the deputy has told me , and she guarantees me that the files were removed .
geez , what next ?
manny said flustered , throwing up his arms .
have you talked to my wife ?
she says the files were there , and she didnt erase them , deputy conner said .
people , manny pleaded , i can turn that thing on , i can open the files , sometimes , and thats it , believe me .
i only use two fingers to type !
youre a smart man , manny , but youre not much good at playing dumb , swenson added .
whos playing .
manny said , turning and leaving the room .
you can all show yourselves out .
chapter 28 the house was empty , and manny was nursing a drink , trying to calm down after the episode with detective swenson .
the phone rang , manny grabbed it quickly , hoping to talk to cassey .
i hoped youd come to your senses ?
manny said breathlessly .
geez manny , im sorry , this is tom .
tom , tom , oh tom , sorry , ive had a hell of a bad day , sorry .
manny recognized gwens husband .
so ive heard .
gwens mother called , said there was something in the paper about you and some attempted murder .
yeah .
i dont understand ?
i was going to call some old friends up there , but decided to call you first , find out whats happening .
i appreciate that .
.
.
manny hesitated , trying to figure out how to explain the situation .
its a mess , and its my fault .
whats going on ?
oh , did you know , billy was married once ?
no , i didnt .
when was this ?
twenty years ago .
she was murdered ?
not there in minnesota ?
no , but the man that did it , well i found him , and did a very stupid thing , and its come back to haunt me .
i guess .
i heard that you and cassey split up .
yeah , for the moment cassey is not my biggest fan .
gwens called up there .
according to what shes hearing , you turned out to be a real asshole .
thats putting it mildly .
manny , what the hell did you do ?
i didnt do anything , but im looking really guilty right now .
i cant figure out if its circumstantial or if i was maybe set up .
why would somebody set you up ?
what do you have that theyd want ?
nothing i can figure , but i did step on somebodys life .
i went and threatened the well being of a psychopath .
well done , manny !
yeah , i never figured i had much talent , but i have amazed myself with this mess ive managed to get into .
you know , gwen was contacted this morning by some agent woman , offered her and her mom fifty thousand big ones each for some kind of release .
a release , whats that have to do with me ?
theyre billys only heirs , and somebody wants to write his life story .
no shit , who was this person ?
tainer , its got to be tainer , hes the only one that knows about the book .
i dont know , gwen wont tell me , something to do with a confidentiality clause .
i assume shes going to do it ?
wouldnt you , i mean thats a lot of money .
this party , they paid for the rights to what ?
i dont know , gwen wont talk , like i said .
you could call her mother , she might spill the beans , but you didnt hear anything from me , okay ?
i got ya , but why did you call me ?
i dont know , you were interested in the same thing , i thought you should know .
look , i appreciate it , i really do , and i wont say i got it from you .
hey thanks .
we could really use the money , but i feel kind of guilty .
i mean , heres this wind fall , and it comes from billy .
gwens mother is always barking about how worthless billy was and now she benefits from it .
i dont understand that woman at all .
she talks so bad about billy , and he never did anything to her .
billy was cool about it all , he said it was just family dynamics , politics in the home .
he said his dad treated people different according to what he wanted from them or thought he could get .
billy said he figured out the old man was messing with him at an early age .
from then on billy had the upper hand , and that was what his dad held against him .
it had nothing to do with who he was or what he had done .
i guess billy understood what was going on , i sure dont .
manny was holding the phone in his one hand , a second drink in the other , a knot forming in his stomach .
the fireplace was burning hotly , but manny was not getting any enjoyment from it .
he took a big breath and dialed .
the phone rang .
oh , come on , somebody be there .
the phone picked up on the fifth ring .
oh thank god , donny , maybe hell talk to me ?
hey trooper , hows it going ?
hey dad , what the hell is going on ?
moms all weirded out .
im trying to feel her out , find out whats eating at her , but i dont know if shes really mad at you or just mad about george , and shes scared .
i talked to this detective .
dear mr. swenson .
yeah , hes an asshole .
sounds like hes really got it in for you .
what the hell is his problem ?
hes convinced im a bad person .
sounds like it .
hes got investigator on the brain and cant see the forest for the trees .
dont worry though , hell sort it all out .
you think ?
well , if anything , hell probably burn himself out trying to stick it to you .
his type always does .
thanks for the support , but im burning down along with him .
hang in there dad , danny and i know you didnt have anything to do with it .
what does your mother think ?
shes just really confused right now .
she keeps saying she worked hard for her happiness and deserves to enjoy it .
she admits shes being selfish .
she wants revenge for george though .
ive never seen her so ticked off before .
she really liked that big hound .
yeah , george was her buddy and he died saving her .
hes become almost mythical to mom .
but , like i said , i know you had nothing to do with it .
maybe somebodys out to get you and mom ?
what for ?
manny didnt reveal his suspicions because they were too vague yet .
there are some seriously screwed up people in this world dad , they dont need much of a reason .
you and mom have been so close , maybe someones jealous .
i just cant imagine why , manny said , thinking , try greedy .
jealousy can be ugly , donny sighed .
just be careful .
ill look after mom , ive got another weeks leave coming and ill take it .
hey , thanks , donny .
manny took a deep breath .
is she there ?
yes .
put her on the phone please , manny asked weakly .
manny could hear a discussion going on in the background as he waited for cassey , his stomach really tied into a knot .
the thought of her not talking to him made him ache and waiting was torture .
shit , i havent felt like this since high school .
since i first got serious about her .
god damn , i havent done anything wrong , why do i feel so helpless ?
i find out whos responsible and so help me okay manny , its your dime , what do you want ?
cassey sounded distant .
he recognized the tone she used with people that annoyed her .
the sound of her voice did nothing to quell the butterflies in his stomach .
hey sweetheart , i miss you , he feebly announced .
yeah manny , hows it going ?
cassey didnt sound thrilled .
rough .
brought it on yourself .
i know , id just like to know the particulars .
how can i fix it if im not sure how it got broken ?
well , ill leave that up to you .
i miss my home , my peace and sanctity , and i blame you .
ill get it back for you , i promise .
youve got no choice , manny because i wont start out from the bottom again .
i worked too hard and i wont except losing all that .
you are really hard core .
manny immediately regretted the comment .
manny , cassey shouted , someone tried to kill me , and if it hadnt been for george i wouldnt be here now !
ill get you another dog .
george picked me , remember , cassey said sadly .
how are you going to duplicate that ?
manny didnt have an answer .
he was quiet for a moment , thinking , wanting to change the subject .
all the files you were working on are missing .
yes , i know , detective swenson called me and told me .
he suspects you did it .
i dont know how to do that , manny said defensively thats what i told him .
the detective said you hired somebody .
goddamn him !
manny shouted .
he ties me to everything that he cant explain !
its not fair !
i dont really care !
cassey shouted back .
i dont want anything more to do with billy , or his writing , or his story .
my life has been turned upside down because of it .
no more manny , do you hear me , no more of it !
i wash my hands of the whole thing .
cassey , please !
timtown , do you have a copy , one you printed out , maybe ?
yes , what do you want that for ?
everything thats happened pertains to that book , trust me !
has anyone asked you if you printed one , or if you have any , what do you call them ?
disks , cassey answered .
yes , disks .
do you have any ?
im sick of billy , i dont want anything more to do with it , please i already told you that .
you know , that mark guy got really mad at me when i told him i might approach somebody else about the book .
i thought it was kind of irrational and it kind of scared me .
i dont like people i dont know trying to intimidate me .
i didnt appreciate the pressure .
i didnt know you called him ?
i didnt , he called looking for you .
when ?
you had just left , and he wanted to be sure you were coming to new york .
i mentioned mattie and how she had gotten published , and he went off on me .
i got an ear full .
then when i got mad , he suddenly became real contrite , almost pleaded with me not to tell you about the incident , so i didnt .
he said he though highly of you .
hes thinking of me all right , but its not respect thats motivating him .
please cassey , the book , a copy , disks , its important .
ill explain later .
theres a copy printed out in the kitchen , in the bottom drawer to the left of the sink , and a disk there too .
oh , thank you !
that thing has gotten to be a pain in the ass , manny , cassey warned .
cassey , timtown is the reason all this is happening .
huh ?
cassey responded .
trust me babe , its the ultimate prize chapter 29 the material was removed from outside her computer .
someone used a worm , deputy conner announced .
she was in the office with swenson and auburn .
so , anderson did it that way , to throw us off , swenson announced .
im sure he doesnt have that kind of knowledge , carrie said .
this was very high tech , very sophisticated he hired someone .
think deputy , think anderson , stay focused and find out how he did it , swenson instructed .
i still dont think hes responsible , carrie returned .
i do the suspect evaluation around here , there was a warning in the tone of swensons voice .
when i tell you to find evidence to convict a suspect , you find evidence , do you understand ?
even if i think the suspect isnt hiding anything ?
yes , deputy , i decide when a suspect is no longer under suspicion , not you .
how was this worm installed , find that out , and you find the person that did it ?
i dont think so , conner returned with a contemptuous tone of her own .
whoever did it , probably used a prepaid cell phone to tap into the wireless internet system at their end .
they then placed the worm .
its about as untraceable as you can work it .
any disk that has anything pertaining to timtown , thats the trigger word , is automatically erased .
somebody knows what they are doing .
okay , so anderson is working with some smart people .
then find the woman .
all that traveling , hes up to something , and ill almost guarantee that it has to do with a woman , somewhere .
why are you so certain ?
asked auburn .
because , he tried to have his wife killed , fool !
swenson criticized .
its not financially motivated , i dont think ?
he has plenty of money , so why else ?
a man cant turn down adventure after his life has gone stale , boring , he has to seek out new adventures .
anderson even admitted that much to me , i have it in my notes .
it could be a man ?
we dont know his sexual preference ?
auburn added .
good thinking auburn !
swenson said , excitedly .
i hadnt considered that angle , but it would explain why anderson would suddenly become involved in dangerous activities .
his peaceful life would sure take a hit if that got out , especially around here .
why did he remove all the computer material ?
auburn asked .
that one has me baffled , but it will make sense when we find the reason .
maybe just to piss off his wife ?
i want his movements down to the hour , compiled , and on this desk by tomorrow evening .
by then i want to be able to look at manny andersons every movement for the last couple of months .
talk to that marilyn gwynn , she seems to know a lot , swenson directed the order to deputy conner .
i dont like her , conners said .
deputy conners , this is not a personality contest , swenson scolded .
you keep your personal feelings to yourself and concentrate on your job .
right now , that job is to find evidence to convict a criminal .
stick to that deputy , and you and i will get along fine .
do you understand me ?
conners didnt say anything right away as she and swenson glared at each other , conners finally capitulating .
yes , detective , i understand .
i will do my best to obtain evidence to convict the guilty party .
thats better deputy conner , much better .
deputies conner and auburn were standing outside the office , watching swenson go through the door to the street .
what were you thinking in there ?
auburn asked .
i just think hes wrong , and were spinning our wheels .
i cant see the husband being the perp in this one .
id bet against you .
why ?
like swenson said , the old man has been on the road all of a sudden , a lot .
hes up to something !
i dont know , ive been talking to people that know the two of them , and unless he has fallen and hit his head recently , it doesnt fit .
im still going with swenson , auburn said with a smirk .
im going to do a little digging , look for the fag in his life .
that is so disgusting !
i hope you know what youre doing ?
its really easy to screw somebodys life up , you know .
fuck anderson , rich people think they can just do anything they want , and the rest of us cant do anything about it .
ill show the rich dude what happens when you dont tell the truth .
you are such a pig , conner said sadly .
hey honey , at least im still a man .
our suspect is the one thats got the identity problem .
i dont know , i dont like this one bit .
youre trying to tie him to the homosexual community , and im supposed to get dirt on him from the town skank .
that woman makes it up as she goes , conner sounded totally repulsed .
youll feel better when we nail his ass .
no i wont , ill be sad if hes guilty .
why youre feeling anything for this prick , i cant imagine ?
he comes and goes like it doesnt matter that the rest of us have to work for a living .
he has a good life and a good family , why does it make you happy to see something like that destroyed ?
hey , hes the one that tried to get rid of his wife , some good family .
i dont think he did , deputy conner said , looking off in the distance .
hey stick to your assignment , swenson wouldnt like it if he found out youre not focusing , auburn advised .
to protect and serve , conner said quietly .
deputy auburn , didnt hear , didnt understand , or didnt care .
chapter 30 carl andrews and a very well dressed , early thirtyish looking man , were headed toward manny , walking up the steps of the county court house .
the county had constructed the public building at the turn of the century and the grand , old , stone structure was still serving its function well .
it intimidated the hell out of manny on this particular day .
manny , this is the young man i told you about , jason mcdermott , carl said .
jason mcdermott was the same height as manny with light brown hair , a handsome face , and manny noticed as he shook his hand , manicured nails .
he did look all business .
hes familiar with the other sides tactics , as i explained to you .
christ this guy looks expensive , was mannys first inclination .
i dont know if im comfortable with this carl ?
manny spoke .
i think it makes me look like i have something to hide .
manny , you dont understand the system , mcdermott answered for carl .
detective swenson thinks hes just doing his job .
he is trying to find the guilty party and he is allowed certain liberties .
he can sweat youhoping you trip upgiving him what he needs .
you are down here for questioning and please remember , you are on his turf and as long as he is fixated on you , you have to be careful .
but im not guilty .
he doesnt know that .
until hes confident youre not , hes dangerous .
my job is to protect you from him and the system .
you say the wrong thing , and this can go on and on .
would you like that ?
no , of course not .
then you need me .
i guess .
good , you stick to what i told you over the phone , and if anything makes you uncomfortable , stop and we talk about it , okay ?
who said talk is cheap , with your fee , manny grumbled .
manny , for gosh sakes , this is not about money , carl spoke up , this is about your very freedom .
this is about being able to afford the very best , when you really need it .
im not concerned about the money , per say .
it just irritates me to think that this bozo cop can push me around like this , on a hunch , manny said as he pulled open one of the heavy oak doors , stepping back to let the two attorneys go ahead of him .
mr. anderson , you keep trying to put the blame on mr. crane , why is that ?
detective swenson was half sitting on the edge of his desk , eyeing manny .
manny , mcdermott and andrews were all seated in swensons office .
because , im not guilty , manny defended , but someone else is , and he looks like a good enough candidate to me .
not to me mr. anderson , he looks clean .
i think i told you before , mr. crane isnt the fastest car on the track .
i think you are though , faster than normal that is .
i dont know if all this was in your head before you ran into crane or you recognized the perfect patsy , and decided to use the opportunity .
whats supposed to be in my head ?
manny agonized .
your mid life crisis , the reason you tried to get rid of your wife .
she spoke of it to me .
swenson , get it out of your head , i dont want to get rid of my wife !
why did you hire a hit on her then ?
i didnt !
manny was getting exasperated .
youre the only one i can think of , might have a reason .
youre obviously missing something , then , detective .
what about the person that removed the computer material ?
yes , that looks suspicious , but again , i think it was you .
i dont know how to do it , everybody has told you that !
were back to the hired gun again , arent we ?
i havent hired anybody .
you spent a lot of time in new york , a lot of hours unaccounted for .
you want to come clean ?
youre hiding something sir !
we will find out everything , mr. anderson .
there is nothing to find , believe me detective , nothing at all !
then you tell me , mr. anderson , in your mind , what is going on , who wanted your wife dead ?
how the hell should i know , youre the detective .
eddy crane has something to do with it , im sure of that .
now were getting somewhere .
of course crane is connected .
he was supposed to take the fall when your wife was killed .
somebody set him up brilliantly .
if it hadnt been for your mutt george .
the mutts name was george , manny interrupted .
yes , of course .
george is the real hero , isnt he ?
swenson leaned toward manny , inferring it as an insult .
if george hadnt intervened , your wife wouldnt have had a chance , and wed probably have nailed crane for the murder .
but fate stepped in and saved the likes of him .
weird huh ?
now tell me mr. anderson , who else besides yourself had any contact with eddy crane ?
who the hell is manipulating crane , thats the key ?
manny looked at swenson .
brilliant manny !
swenson jumped up .
you see anderson , it all points right back at you , and any moment now , my people will find the connection .
we can all save a lot a time and the tax payers money , if you come clean .
in the long run , it will be easier on you too , after all nobody got hurt .
you have a good lawyer here , swenson indicated mcdermott .
things shouldnt go too bad for you .
you fess up right here , and youll spend a lot less time behind bars than you deserve , i can guarantee that .
why go after cassey , what would there be to gain ?
manny was thinking , looking at mcdermott .
look , mr. anderson , we have the phone records from eddy cranes home in yuma , said swenson said , still on his track .
you called him from the minneapolis airport and new york .
you sent him to alexandria , and if it hadnt been for george , he would have been nailed with the crime .
i know hes not one to deserve any sympathy , but neither is the person who is doing this .
an innocent woman was supposed to be murdered .
manny didnt say anything , he was thinking furiously .
what are we missing ?
you know mr. anderson , your silence doesnt help your situation .
ignoring me wont make me go away , swenson advised .
what will swenson ?
manny shouted , surprising everyone in the room .
ive had about enough of this peckerhead !
manny started to stand .
he had lost his temper , but jason quickly grabbed his shoulder , steering him back down into his chair .
i cant figure out if you got lucky , or planned it all real careful ?
swenson said continuing to apply the pressure .
manny remained silent , steaming , with swenson staring him down .
after half a minute of quiet , swenson spoke .
what was it mr. anderson , luck , or good planning ?
i dont know what youre referring too ?
manny said , his teeth clenched .
the hit !
who did you hire to commit the actual crime ?
we know crane was going to take the fall , but who actually was out there , who did george tear into ?
ill bet they arent too happy with you , forgetting to tell them about that big , old , hound in the back seat .
how that person has managed to elude us so far , like i said , is either really lucky , or really well planned .
well , its simple swenson , there is no one .
mr. anderson !
swenson got up from his desk quickly , pointing at manny .
someone killed your dog , someone scared the shit out of your wife , and someone left a truck full of blood at the minneapolis airport .
the blood matches the blood found on georges teeth .
there is someone mr. anderson , someone that you hired !
now , who the hell is this person ?
im losing my patience , sir !
i repeat detective , i dont know !
i had nothing to do with the attack on my wife !
i know george is always with her detective , think about that one .
manny could see swenson frown .
manny hadnt thought about it before swenson brought it up , but whoever was involved hadnt realized that george always rode with cassey .
is this true manny ?
mcdermott asked .
cassey always took the dog in her suv , and you knew this ?
yes , always .
of course no one watching her would have realized that because george always stayed on the back floor , loved to go back there and sleep .
detective swenson , i think we have an issue here ?
mcdermott said .
youve discounted edward crane because he had no dog bites .
my client surely would have informed anyone he sent to harm his wife of the existence of that dog .
dont you think ?
he could have overlooked some of the details .
sometimes this happens .
a third party was hired , and a detail was missed .
i guess it wasnt good planning , but good luck after all , hey mr. anderson ?
whatever !
im truly sick of you and your pigheaded assumptions , swenson .
you do get stuck like glue .
why thank you .
thats what ive been trying to impress on you .
thats why you need to talk to me now .
i will find out what happened , how you fit into all this , swenson continued , confidently .
manny was about to speak to try to make some kind of point to the detective , but said nothing , just looking at swenson with a frustrated look on his face .
manny finally reverted to a shrug .
mcdermott , sensing the impasse , spoke .
well , regardless , i think this meeting is over , dont you detective ?
i dont want you leaving town mr. anderson , swenson ordered .
is that an order of the court , or a personal request ?
mcdermott asked as he , carl , and manny got up to leave .
i want mr. anderson where i can find him , if i need him , swenson instructed .
you call my office , and mr. anderson will be available within twenty four hours .
is that satisfactory detective swenson ?
mcdermott asked as they walked through the door .
swenson said nothing , just stared out the window .
you think he took the thing about george serious ?
i mean , i dont look as guilty to him now , do i ?
manny asked .
hard to say what hes thinking , mcdermott answered .
maybe it was just a bit of miscommunication in his head .
hes going to need something a little more solid than that to dissuade him , im afraid .
what is it with these guys , dont they ever give up ?
manny asked .
im tired of the onslaught on my integrity .
i dont deserve this .
youve got to understand the mentality , manny .
swenson and his type are necessary , they help keep us relatively safe .
if you were really guilty , youd be more than just annoyed with him , youd be damn scared , isnt that right ?
got me there , manny conceded .
you just earned your pay .
you did well manny .
stuck up for yourself at the right moments , put lots of holes in the detectives assumptions .
he might just come through for you .
id enjoy watching him gnaw some other bone besides mine , thats for sure true .
chapter 31 manny headed for his car , the blustering cold wind pulling at his over coat making it difficult to walk properly .
manny was being real deliberate , moving carefully on the glaring ice .
damn this weather , i hate this slippery shit .
the worst sound in the world , walking on the snow and it squeaks like this .
that means it is really cold !
this is the worst part about winter , someday im going to bust my butt .
manny walked past the front of his car , gliding his left hand on the hood , using the car for support .
with his left hand still sliding along the hood he rounded the front , moving cautiously toward the drivers door .
when hed gotten as far as the windshield , he reached out for the door handle with the other hand , half turning to face the car .
just as he touched the handle , his left heel came down on the ice and slipped out from under him .
manny grabbed the door handle , still holding on as his body continued to turn , falling toward the ice .
everything happened so fast , the explosion of sound and the sharp blow to the side of his cheek didnt register immediately , but he let go of the car door handle , continuing down .
the side of his face brushed the hard ice as he hit the ground .
manny started to shake his head , trying to clear his thoughts , but a big drop of blood splattered on the ice and he could feel a stinging in his left cheek .
manny put his gloved hand up to his cheek and then looked at it .
it was covered with blood .
when the authorities go over and over the incident with manny , he can not explain why he rolled under the car , immediately , saving himself .
not allowing whoever had tried to kill him another clear shot .
the next thing manny knew hes squirming under his car , trying to get to the other side .
somewhere in his confused mind two more loud bangs registered .
it wasnt until he was in the hospital , and the doctors and nurses were checking him over that they discovered another superficial flesh wound , basically a scratch across his calf .
the forensic people find a ricochet mark on the ice , just below the car door , and a dent from a bullet on the bottom of the muffler .
they find a bullet lodged deep in the sheet metal just below the door , between the car frame and body panel .
all the bitching and belly aching about the snow and ice and it ends up saving my sorry ass , go figure ?
manny said laughing , sitting up on the doctors table , detective swenson looking at him .
manny cant figure if the look of concern from the detective is for him , or the complexity his case has now taken on .
do you know of anyone that would like to harm you ?
swenson asked .
yeah , probably the man who attacked cassey , or do you think i set this up too ?
its unlikely .
someone tried to kill you , im pretty sure of that , swenson announced .
well , thank you detective !
manny returned gleefully .
i was worried that you would assume this was all part of my master plan .
no , mr. anderson , it is very apparent that someone wants you dead .
missing a little detail like george in the back seat may have come back to haunt you .
what the hell are you getting at swenson ?
manny shouted .
do you think im still involved ?
more than ever mr. anderson .
this just confirms my suspicions .
i dont believe this guy !
manny shouted exasperated , looking at the doctor for some support .
what is it with you ?
manny turned back to swenson .
i told you , the original guy is still out there and now hes shooting at me .
the doctor didnt even look up , working diligently to bandage mannys calf .
we no doubt have a real professional here , making sure ill be fit and healthy so they wont have to carry me up to the gallows .
ill be able to make it all on my own , manny thought , watching the doctor .
yes , mr. anderson , the case has taken a nasty turn , swenson said , a little hesitation caught manny off guard .
he almost thought the detective was sympathizing , until he added , for you because pissed off accomplices can be quite dangerous , swenson continued , as you just found out .
the original crime was botched , and now whoever you hired is trying to cover their tracks .
you see , mr. anderson , you should have told me who you hired , and all this could have been prevented .
you nearly died because of your stubbornness to do the right thing .
swenson had a little patronizing smirk on his face .
wheres crane , are you looking for him ?
manny asked .
already found him , swenson came back .
hes still in yuma , right there at home .
i just got off the phone with the locals .
look mr. anderson , weve checked eddy crane out .
we gave him a real close look after the incident with your wife , and i can tell you , he never was a gun person , never shot guns .
his brother said he was afraid of them , and afraid of everything .
crane even tried to go to a survival school , one of those white supremacist things a few years back .
they had a part on sniper training , and eddy crane couldnt hit a bull in the ass with a spade .
he was remembered , real clearly , as a complete incompetent with a gun .
theres your connection .
crane met someone there , and hes the one thats hiring people , manny surmised .
no mr. anderson , no way , because eddy made no friends there .
he wasnt too well liked , and he came off as an insignificant wannabe .
they just wanted his money .
im sure of all this information because there was a government plant in the group .
ill bet youre real sorry the sob missed !
no , mr. anderson , that would spoil my fun .
you think youre going to get away , and im just as sure youre not .
did they break the mold after they cast you ?
insults are not in your best interest , mr. anderson .
you are something else detective !
youre determined to ruin my life and youre concerned with insults .
youre trying your very best to malign me with my family , my friends , and you dont like me criticizing your methods .
when this is over are you threatening me , mr. anderson ?
swenson was quick to cut manny off .
it sounds like he is , and ill be right there helping him out , anyway i can , mcdermott exclaimed , stepping out from behind the screen in the emergency room .
carl andrews was right behind him .
until you have more than just suppositions , detective , youd better take a look at all the possibilities .
are you making suggestions on how to do my job ?
yes , detective , i am .
i played on your side of the fence too , you know , and youre getting off base .
when mr. anderson is found innocent , your methods will come back to haunt you .
okay , mr. anderson , im going to give you my undivided attention , swenson announced .
lets look at everything again , from your perspective this time , and see what were overlooking .
fair enough ?
my god swenson , you do have a circulatory system , manny snipped .
enough of the smart ass stuff , manny , the man is willing to listen , andrews said .
my gosh carl , you used a bad word there , manny laughed .
manny , youll never change , carl returned .
gentlemen , manny says hes innocent and i believe him , mcdermott added .
why does he look so bad to the detective here ?
thats what we need to know ?
when did this all start ?
swenson asked .
i guess , billy palmer , manny answered .
what does he have to do with all this ?
i presume hes the vietnam vet your wife told me about ?
swenson asked .
yes , we went to his funeral , and i decided to look into his life , manny replied .
why ?
swenson asked .
andrews can explain it , manny stated .
im not sure i think the same as you do , manny .
i dont see any mystery about what happened to billy , carl returned .
just tell me about this palmer , the detective said .
we grew up with billy , carl said .
he was a kind of a rouge , even before the war .
he went off to vietnam and when he came back , he just didnt click anymore .
he was sort of a loose cannon .
we couldnt , or wouldnt accept him after he came back .
i think we were jealous of him , manny added .
manny ended up with his girlfriend , married her , andrews added .
the present mrs. anderson ?
swenson asked .
the one and only , manny responded .
the one i still love .
how did this palmer take it , i mean you stealing his girl ?
swenson asked .
i didnt steal her .
billy was gone , and cassey and i had been friends before and we just got together .
billy wasnt all that shook up about it .
humm , billy palmer , the ex boyfriend , the ex vet , you sure hes really dead ?
swenson asked .
it was an open casket , it was billy , manny said .
how did he die ?
swenson asked .
im not sure , they just shipped the body back .
the veterans administration paid for the funeral and i guess he was given a plot back here .
he was a disabled vet , then ?
swenson commented .
yes , and decorated , added manny added .
i didnt know that ?
andrews said .
you knew that he had been wounded ?
manny said .
yeah , carl said .
first thing i heard , just after it happened , was he had lost an arm , but that was false .
he came back in perfect health .
i found out he was highly decorated , manny said .
i had no idea , carl said .
i imagine , because he never said too much about his experiences .
most of those guys dont , swenson commented .
ill look into this palmer character , what next ?
geez , i dont know ?
manny said .
the time line , mr. anderson , what did you do after the funeral ?
i got on the phone and the computer , tried to find information about him , about his life .
i thought you werent computer literate , swenson said suspiciously .
im not , but cassey led me through the whole thing .
i can still just barely turn the damn thing on .
im still not comfortable with that , go on , swenson added .
i contacted his sister , she wasnt to upset about his death .
his family didnt have much to do with him , especially after the war .
why was that ?
swenson asked .
im not really sure , he was sort of the black sheep .
yeah , even when we were kids , billy sort of went his own way , carl confirmed .
his parents never really bothered with him too much , let him do his own thing .
his dad was okay though , but he treated billys friends better than he treated billy , i remember that .
fathers can be tough , i know , swenson said kindly .
did the sister have anything to add ?
swenson continued .
not really , she had a husband that was also a vietnam vet , but he was a real loser and soured her toward all of them , manny said .
john campbell , i can confirm that , carl added .
that guy was nothing but bad news , before and after the service .
does he have any reason to fit into this ?
swenson asked .
i doubt it , the last time i heard he was serving fifteen to twenty five .
beat up his new wife , really bad , carl said .
he still in ?
swenson asked .
i think so , carl said .
where next ?
swenson asked .
i found the guy billy served with in vietnam , manny said .
one guy , he must have had more than one buddy over there ?
swenson said .
yeah , but one in particular because billy was a sniper , this guy was his partner , manny explained .
a sniper , what branch of the service was he in ?
swenson asked .
marines .
a marine sniper !
swenson exclaimed .
when was he over there ?
sixty six , sixty seven , im not sure of the exact dates , manny said .
and you were shacking up with his girlfriend ?
you got balls anderson , ill give you that much .
and you said he was highly decorated ?
he have any trouble in the marines ?
no , he was solid as a rock , i saw his records .
wait a minute , didnt you guys contact this partner , mark tainer , in new york mr. tainer , yes , your wife gave me the number , and i have spoken to him about you mr. anderson .
i was under the impression that you went to see him , about a book .
he is a publisher i believe ?
swenson answered .
yeah , hes a publisher .
what did he have to say ?
im really curious about this one .
well , to tell you the truth mr. anderson , hes a little reluctant to say much .
i got the feeling that he was afraid of you , same as your wife , not that i could blame him .
after all , he just met you , and then all this happened .
he would rather you stayed out of his life , anyway thats the impression he gave me .
yeah , he kind of flinched when i told him i had contacted ed crane , manny confessed .
mr. edward crane , how did he come into the picture ?
swenson asked .
i found a guy that billy worked for years ago and he told me billy had been married .
i found the wife , or rather the father in law and went to see him , nice old man .
eddy crane killed billys wife and daughter and served only seven years in some nut house , and then they set him free .
im fully aware of the story , but why did you contact mr. crane ?
do you know the whole story detective , why he only served seven years ?
he was found innocent by reason of insanity , and he was eventually evaluated and considered no longer a threat to society .
and you agree with this ?
i dont make the rules , mr. anderson .
he committed the crime , but was not cognizant of his actions .
whether or not i agree is not pertinent .
did you know how he was evaluated , what was used to determine his mental state when he committed the crime ?
manny asked .
its not relevant .
he was given a full disability by the veterans administration .
they gave a full disability pension to a man who was never in the service , and then blunder of blunders , he uses it to beat a murder rap .
swenson didnt say anything for a moment .
he never served ?
i didnt know that .
are you sure ?
positive !
i was on to him , and i was going to take his pension away !
interesting story mr. anderson , can anyone confirm this ?
mr. wendell guterraz , the father in law , give him a call , and hell verify the whole thing .
i have his number .
i would like to process this before we go any farther , is that okay ?
swenson asked .
and mr. anderson , if this turns out to be correct , the information about crane ?
swenson stopped , looking attentively at manny .
yes detective , spit it out .
it could simply mean that you had a reason to mess with cranes life , swenson added .
manny just chuckled , theres got to be a made in quantico tag on him somewhere .
and detective , one more thing .
my wife is genuinely mad at me , and thats my fault for disrupting her life , but she is afraid because she has been told things , not because i have given her any reason .
swenson just nodded .
im not sure if it means he considered , or disregarded what ive said .
you couldnt read this bugger , even if you had the blue prints .
i checked everything out , mr. anderson .
detective swenson said back in his office with manny , carl , and mcdermott .
you seem to be telling me the truth , so far .
im curious about one thing though ?
yes , detective , how can i help you ?
you located eddy crane so quickly , howd that happen ?
the cop on the case , the san diego detective , albright , wendell probably gave you the name .
yes , but the detective was reluctant to talk much , said he never gave you the location of crane .
he didnt , he refused , said the case was closed , but , when i got back to my hotel the information was mysteriously there .
its like someone wanted me to do something about him , something they couldnt .
mr. anderson , i cant verify your story .
information doesnt just pop up at hotels .
i am very suspicious of you again .
whatever swenson , but thats how i found eddy crane .
follow the story , how else would i have come across him , huh ?
im not sure .
why were you spending all that time in new york ?
we have gone over and over that !
i was there to see mark tainer because he was interested in billy and his writing .
mr. tainer confirms that you met with him , but says the writing was not the entire reason .
he says its not very good , but you spent a lot more time there in the city than he verifies .
what were you doing the rest of the time ?
manny sat forward quickly .
he said that , tainer told you that the book wasnt any good ?
yes , he said that it might yield something interesting , down the road , but it would take a lot of work on his part .
bingo , mr. tainer , you s , o , b .
manny was silent , thinking .
mr. anderson , again , what were you doing in new york ?
but we did talk about vietnam and billy , quit a bit , he didnt tell you that ?
he said you talked , but not to any great extent .
mr. tainer was a very busy man , i didnt want to take up to much of his time .
how considerate , swenson accused .
hes concerned about this problem you have here , and doesnt want to associate with you any farther .
he said this ?
yes , he was very adamant about not furthering the relationship .
i figured as much when he wouldnt take my calls , manny said , quietly , thinking .
i cant believe he is trying to convince you he wasnt interested in billys writing .
he said he may be interested in billys story in the future , but thats all .
now , what did you do with the rest of the time there ?
swenson the quantico bulldog asked .
i amused myself in other ways , manny said , tired of the inquisition .
i like to walk the city , go to shows , and i started my christmas shopping a little early this year , not that theres going to be anyone around to accept any of the stuff i bought .
you have any receipts , ticket stubs ?
swenson asked , monotone , like he was getting bored too .
ever go to yonkers ?
he fired with renewed vigor .
ive got the credit card charges , they will come to my office , call my secretary , manny said .
he too was bored with the conversation .
what about yonkers ?
did you go there ?
ive been there , but not recently .
when was the last time you went there ?
oh hell , i dont know , maybe three , four years , but not recently , no .
whats in yonkers ?
a pay phone ?
a pay phone , thats it , you want to inform me that there is a pay phone in yonkers .
what happened deputy ?
manny laughed .
why do they rate only one pay phone , detective ?
someone called eddy crane from a pay phone in yonkers , swenson stated .
same day as you were there .
i told you , i havent been to yonkers in years !
manny proclaimed .
what reason did you go there ?
to play golf , they have a really good course up there , and it was three summers ago .
im not positive , but i can check .
and you havent been there since ?
nope .
eddy crane got three calls from the same pay phone , same day .
the day after he got two calls from the minneapolis airport , also the same time you were there .
all these calls got him upset enough to make him rush to minnesota .
i told you detective , it , was , not , me !
very well , sooner or later well find someone that can id the caller , im sure of that , swenson said , looking directly at manny .
good , the sooner the better , because your diligence is spooking me .
i keep telling you mr. anderson , i will find the truth .
and , i keep telling you detective , im really looking forward to that , really i am .
chapter 32 you fuckers , its not enough that you try to railroad me for the assault on my wife , but now youre floating rumors of me being gay !
what is wrong with you people ?
manny shouted at swenson who was getting out of his car .
manny was standing outside the vehicle holding the newspaper , waving it , while carl andrews and jason mcdermott were both trying to get manny to back away from the car .
we are conducting a criminal investigation and we leave no stone unturned , swenson said calmly shutting the car door , not in the least perturbed that his inquiries are complicating mannys life .
investigation , your investigation has turned into an inquisition , have you seen this ?
manny thrust the newspaper at him , as swenson headed toward his office .
i dont write the news , mr. anderson , swenson said , not taking the paper , still walking .
i would think that as a public servant , youd be careful not to make it either , mcdermott added , following with carl .
i had nothing to do with that , swenson said pointing at the paper in mannys hand .
have you read it ?
mcdermott asked .
im aware of its contents , swenson answered .
manny unfolded the paper and read .
local man under investigation for attempted murder , gay connection revealed by the sheriffs department .
manny scrunched the paper up .
you had nothing to do with this ?
nothing , swenson said , reaching the office door .
am i missing something here , or are we on different planets .
manny put his hand out , holding the door so swenson couldnt fully open it .
you are the sheriffs department , am i not correct ?
we released nothing about you being gay , and please release the door .
swenson said calmly .
well , thats comforting , considering that im not !
manny shouted , as mcdermott pulled his arm from the door .
then how does a story like this end up getting printed ?
im not required to divulge any of our investigation , especially to you .
manny was so exasperated that he was unable to continue .
manny just stared at swenson as the detective pulled the door fully open .
it didnt seem to bother the detective as he went through the door into the building , a satisfying smirk on his face this peckerwood is enjoying this .
he thinks hes got me on the ropes , and im going to fall apart and confess the whole thing .
detective , manny yelled , going through the door behind swenson , the two lawyers scrambling up the rear , conferring about something .
in that narrow gage train of thought you use , does the possibility you might be wrong about me , ever surface ?
if im wrong , you will be vindicated , swenson said nonchalantly as he went into his office .
no , i wont , not even close !
manny was still on swensons heels .
you have done irreversible damage to my integrity in this community .
youve entered my life , tossed around the pieces , and when youre gone , ill be left to clean up the mess .
do you know i have to go to the next town to get food ?
thanks to you , im a spectacle in a small minnesota town !
theres not a whole hell of a lot to do around here , or havent you noticed ?
you are the prime suspect in a heinous crime , and if im right , when we get what we need , your present problems will pale in comparison , swenson said , sitting down behind his desk .
thats your rational ?
why , mr. anderson , its not so bad now , why are you complaining so much , just wait until i can make it worse , save your breath .
is that it swenson , is that what youre telling me ?
manny was standing on the other side of the desk , his face red and puffy .
the two lawyers were on either side of manny , slightly behind , nervous looks on both their faces .
manny and swenson were silent .
it was obvious that swenson wasnt going to say any more , and manny was weak from the frustration of dealing with the narrow minded detective .
both men just stare at each other , swenson sitting back , hands on his thighs , turning side to side in small sharp actions , making the chair swivel with him , manny , still standing , was ridged with anger .
swenson finally broke the quiet deadlock , sitting forward , looking at mcdermott .
we found a witness .
he rolled his chair forward , moving up under the desk .
that can place your client in the proximity of the yonkers pay phone , swenson finished dramatically , slapping both palms on the desk top .
bullshit !
manny stated , kind of rocking back on his heels , crossing his arms , looking even more defiant .
a witness says he saw a man fitting your description buying a bottle of water in a convenience store .
swenson was smiling , looking manny right in the face , tilting the chair forward .
right around the corner from the pay phone that was used to call eddy crane .
did this witness see the man fitting my clients description , use the phone in question ?
mcdermott asked , suddenly stepping forward , drawing even with manny .
and how did you find this witness ?
we canvassed the neighborhood , and he is willing to testify .
we also have a witness , a transit policeman , that is sure a man fitting your description , swenson nodded to manny , was on the subway heading back into manhattan .
coming from the north , coming from the direction of yonkers .
not enough to convince a jury , mcdermott said .
enough to bring him to trial , swenson said .
well see how mr. anderson fares when its all put together and presented to that jury .
you think you can weather that storm , mr. anderson ?
everything will be presented in a detailed timeline .
we are connecting the dots , sir .
auburn canvassed the minneapolis airport .
swenson smiled , looking intently at manny .
what for , we all know i was there ?
manny answered quickly .
how is a witness spotting me on my way to new york going to make it any worse ?
did you use any phones in that airport ?
no , i did not !
i guess playing dumb is about all you can do at this point , sir .
swenson sat back again .
i hardly expect you to come forward with the truth , not now .
apparently you intend to play it out .
like i mentioned before , i thought that it was a spur of the moment crime .
that you hadnt thought it through , just reacted when an opportunity presented itself , but i can see that there was careful planning involved , and you fully intend for this crime to go unpunished .
what in the hell are you talking about , detective ?
manny sounded tired of the ordeal .
a vender in the airport remembers you buying a prepaid cell phone , or rather , a man fitting your description .
that man also bought a golf magazine .
ha , manny laughed .
i already have a cell phone so why would i get another one ?
i hate the damn things , ask cassey , ask my secretary .
i dont even take the thing with me half the time , i leave it in my hotel room because i use it mostly for messages , and i dont buy golf magazines because they are rags !
you can also check that out with anyone that knows me .
you used the phone to plan and execute a crime , swenson laughed .
i dont exactly like the damn things either , but i use them .
deputy conner tells me the whole plan was brilliant , prepaid cell phone calls cant be traced back to the caller .
she is absolutely convinced though that you didnt facilitate the computer part , to high tech for you .
now youre insulting my intelligence ?
manny shouted , uncrossing his arms and leaning forward , toward swenson .
now were getting somewhere manny !
swenson pounced , also moving forward again .
why dont you tell hold on , i want to talk to my client , mcdermott interrupted , jumping to head off manny .
jason grabbed manny by the arm and pulled him toward the door .
manny didnt go easily , making mcdermott struggle , pulling the sleeve of mannys jacket out of shape .
manny finally ripped his arm free of jasons grasp and stopped , glaring at the lawyer .
ive had it with all these shit turds .
what do you think youre doing ?
jason asked angrily .
i am sick of that guy !
manny shouted , pointing at swenson , but still looking at mcdermott .
i would be too .
jason pointed to the door .
explain it to me , outside .
manny hesitated , looking intently at the lawyer .
im sick of backing down !
im not going to take this shit anymore !
out , manny !
jason was still pointing at the door a stern look on his face .
manny and the attorney squared off , a match of wills in the making .
swenson sat calmly watching the confrontation , wondering if a definitive moment is at hand .
manny finally relented .
assholes !
he shouted , turning and heading out the door .
did you have anything to do with a cell phone , the one he is describing ?
jason asked , trying to keep up to manny as he stormed down the hall .
no , of course not !
well , for christ sakes , dont let him bait you .
i thought we went over all this ?
how can he get away with this ?
arent there any manny , dont start acting like a child on me .
you insolent sob !
manny came up short and turned quickly to confront the lawyer .
i dont have to take that from you !
like hell , you dont !
you hired me to cover your ass , and when youre thinking of getting stupid , it is my job to point it out , jason lectured , right in mannys face .
now get your ass out of here , we have to talk .
mcdermott pushed manny through the door that carl andrews already had open .
i blew it huh ?
manny said , as the three men walked to the parking lot .
you didnt blow anything , mcdermott replied in a calm voice .
swenson is forcing the issue , and you being innocent , are simply overreacting to his obsession .
its like i explained to you before , the detective needs reinforcement .
he is certain hes is doing the right thing , hes certain youre the man .
i got you out of there because the bullshit is mounting , and im convinced that we need to change our strategy , mcdermott said as they reached the car .
carl andrews was getting into the passengers side of the car , and suddenly commented to manny .
that comment , the one about the witness seeing a man fitting your description ?
yeah , what about it ?
manny replied .
jason , carl said to mcdermott .
i was thinking all this was just one big mistake , that cassey simply happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time , and manny was a suspect because he was the husband .
carl got into the car , thinking .
whats on your mind carl ?
mcdermott asked .
the thing about the golf magazine ?
yeah , go on .
manny , i seem to remember that you didnt like golf magazines even when you were a kid , correct ?
carl asked .
yeah , theyre bullshit .
and youd never buy one ?
mcdermott asked , picking up on carls direction .
is there any proof of this ?
he asked manny .
any one that knows me is all .
i wont even allow them in my office .
if i could keep them out of the stores , i would , manny stated .
i seems likely that someone is trying to make you look guilty .
someone that knows you like golf , but didnt realize that you dont buy the magazines .
thats what ive been trying to tell everyone !
manny shouted .
you sobs werent certain i was innocent then ?
its like reading a book manny .
you wrote it so you know how it goes .
carl and i are reading it and we may have an idea about how it ends , before it does , but were not sure until we finish , and its our job to not jump to conclusions until the page is turned .
whatever !
manny growled .
manny , carl and i have conferred and we feel it is time to establish a defense , mcdermott said calmly .
a defense for what ?
manny sounded pissed .
the evidence is all circumstantial , but it is compelling , and if they find a motive , some proof of you having a good reason to want your wife out of the way , weve got problems .
i dont want to talk to you two !
manny yelled , slamming back hard into the back seat .
this is all bullshit !
swenson is fabricating the whole thing .
you two warned me this could happen , the gestapo mentality could get out of control , and now youre ready to throw me to the wolves .
calm down , manny , carl pleaded .
calm down ?
fuck you , swenson and his raged band are coming up with all these witnesses that are burying my ass .
how can that be ?
witnesses are notoriously unreliable , jason said .
i can go talk to these same people and theyll tell me what i want to hear , the same thing they did for the authorities , and more than likely they may be stage players , like the guy with the magazine .
god , im sick of this !
manny said , expelling a big breath .
look , its christmas eve , were all going home , carl said .
ill go tell swenson so he can be with the kids , polish his gun or something .
chapter 33 come on betty , what are you trying to do ?
manny pleaded into the phone , sitting watching the fire , a drink in his hand .
i have the right to talk to my family .
manny anderson , youve lost that right .
you are sinful and dangerous , casseys mother scolded .
what are you talking about ?
im being railroaded .
you cant believe all those things about me ?
youve known me for many years , betty .
a relationship of trust doesnt just disappear overnight .
not because of innuendoes , at least it shouldnt .
manny , ive never trusted you .
you and that ridiculous sense of humor , or thats what you call it .
i call it childish .
youve never grown up manny and this just proves it .
how could you do this to cassey and the kids ?
i havent done a thing !
my daughter and my grandchildren are hiding , afraid for their lives , and youre trying to convince me that you havent done anything .
manny grow up .
is ed there ?
ed is not here , and if he was , he wouldnt want to talk to you either .
you finally got your way , huh betty ?
all these years of lying in wait paid off .
im sorry we couldnt solve our differences before you were presented with the opportunity of a life time .
you are a godless man , manny anderson , and that is a sin that cant be forgiven .
you lead my daughter and my grandchildren down a path of sin , and i only hope that there is salvation and a spot in heaven for them , now that they are free of you , thanks to that nice detective .
dont say it manny , dont provoke her .
this is not a good time , the old bat has the edge .
how can ed put up with her ?
manny hung the phone up .
hey carl , manny anderson , remember me ?
how the hells it going ?
manny said loudly into the phone .
manny are you drunk ?
damn right i am !
and do you know why carl ?
no , manny , i dont .
because , mr. legal eagle , im having a lousy christmas , manny was slurring his words .
im sitting here at home , all alone on christmas eve , and i cant find anyone to talk to .
since im paying you , i decided you cant hang up on me , so i called .
hows that for a reason to get blasted ?
does that fit the bill ?
its the only thing i could find to do , getting hammered that is .
what can i do for you ?
manny , youre not making much sense , you called me .
thats because people drink to forget , not to make sense , manny laughed .
does that make sense ?
no wait , people drink to wash away the pain .
yeah , thats it , i got pain carl .
oops , manny laughed again .
i did have pain , but the alcohol has kicked in , and now im fine .
of course ill have a rip roaring hangover in the morning , but thatll be tomorrow , wont it ?
ill bet you i wont drink tomorrow , no sirry , but for the rest of this day ill be just fine , thanks to the booze .
manny , things arent as bad as youre making them out to be .
bullshit , swenson the savage swede figures he has enough to arrest me now .
how much worse can it get ?
an arrest is a long way away , manny .
youre over reacting .
im am thinking of getting the hell out of here .
what ?
carl shouted .
dont do that ?
you cant solve anything by running away .
manny , please , let mcdermott do his job .
his job !
whos job is it to find who the hell is doing this to me , huh ?
carl , who do we hire to take care of that ?
id be willing to pay him overtime , by the way , or maybe we need a woman .
yeah , a woman with big tits , they get answers faster .
he could make a lot more than you are , no , we decided it was a she .
boy , just think , i wouldnt need you and mcdermott because i wouldnt be guilty anymore .
if someone is setting you up , it will come out , carl assured .
if , if !
god damnit andrews , someone is screwing me over here .
i know this because i am innocent .
you hear me carl !
in no cent !
how would you like to be in no cent on christmas eve , and getting drunk instead because no one believes you ?
put that in your pipe and smoke it .
oops , thats not right is it , manny chuckled .
im drinking , not smoking .
theres where i made my mistake .
is there a clich about getting bombed that fits the bill ?
go to bed manny .
i guess ill have to , to fuckin drunk to drive .
oh , for gosh sakes manny , do not get in your car , you hear me .
i already said i was too drunk to drive , lawyer dude .
shit , i couldnt even find the keys , even if i had to .
shit , i probably couldnt even find the car .
manny laughed heartily .
so dont worry counselor , im isolated for the evening , out of the loop .
cant get in anymore trouble , so dont worry oh lawyer of mine .
hey you know what ?
there was a clattering sound as manny dropped the phone .
manny fumbled for a moment , finally getting the phone back to his ear , but didnt say anything .
carl can hear manny breathing manny , you there ?
carl finally asked .
hey carl , thanks for getting back to me , manny slurred .
where was i ?
youre having a lousy christmas , carl sighed .
oh yeah , thats where i was .
yeah , thats why im drinking , right ?
manny , i have to go !
this is probably going to be my worst christmas ever , huh andrews ?
tell me its not possible to have a worse one , will you andrews , huh , will you ?
no manny , its not likely that youll ever have one this bad again .
now put the bottle away and go to bed .
the bottle , what bottle ?
shit andrews , i lost the goddamn bottle .
carl , i cant find my bottle .
what am i going to do now ?
shit , guess ill just have to go to bed .
thanks for calling carl .
manny hung up .
chapter 34 manny was cradling a steaming hot cup of coffee in both hands , looking forlornly out the window of the kitchen .
more snow had piled up over the night and the back yard was a white picture postcard .
all this crap , and now a hell of a hangover to go with it .
good going anderson , manny said quietly to himself , the ringing phone bringing him back to reality .
manny just stared at it , not sure if he wanted to talk to anyone the way hes feeling .
christ , someone sure wants to talk , manny said annoyed , as the phone continued to ring .
give it up , paleeese !
manny shouted at the ringing phone .
god dammit !
manny said , finally relenting and reaching for the phone .
hello , im in a shitty mood , manny shouted into the phone , and i have a hangover !
so state your business and be gone .
there was silence from the caller .
come on , you called me , so dont be shy .
take your shot , shit all over my parade , manny snarled into the phone .
how dare you talk to me like that , cassey snarled back from the other end of the line .
oh shit , cassey .
im sorry , i didnt think id hear from you .
im sorry , please dont hang up , manny begged .
i dont know manny , i dont like your tone .
whats gotten into you , you would never answer the phone that way ?
what is your problem ?
its christmas morning , my family is gone , left me .
i have a hell of a hangover , and every time i look out the window , i visualize detective swenson standing out in the snow , waiting to take me in .
im red pines criminal of the century , and i dont relish the notoriety other than all that , how are you doing ?
christ cassey , i just told you how i am .
am i supposed to gloss it over , go find my suit of armor and put it on .
i dont know manny , you got yourself into this .
how , how the hell did i get myself into this , huh ?
manny shouted .
you tell me , what is it ive done that warrants this ?
i dont know manny , but i sure havent done anything either , and im spending christmas away from my house .
well , come on back , then , manny said happily , excited about the thought .
cassey was silent .
whats the problem , you can come home ?
we can salvage the rest of the holidays , anyway ?
manny pleaded .
come on , what do you say ?
no , manny , i dont think that would be wise .
why , what the hell is wrong with our getting back our lives ?
we arent going to get our lives back until whoever is doing this is caught .
cassey please , dont shut me out .
youre all wrong about this , all of you , and i need your help , please .
manny im scared , dont you understand .
i dont know what to do .
in my heart i cant fathom you being involved , but in my head , i dont know .
i am not involved !
if you hadnt started this , it wouldnt have happened .
i know , but i never intended for it to get this serious .
you do know what is happening , then ?
cassey said with a faint whisper .
manny cant sense if shes cautious , or curious .
i think so , but i cant prove it , not yet .
manny , my god , my mother is right , i cant believe it .
oh cassey , she sees the devil everywhere , you know that .
shes not accusing you of being the devil , but she says you are bored , and thats the devils tool .
you have let your curiosity lead you astray .
yeah well , dont put too much faith in peoples opinions , they tend to follow their wishes .
i know you dont like my mother , but i feel safe here .
i dont feel that way with you anymore .
i understand , but keep an open mind about me .
i will prove to you that i am being set up .
i need to know about the man that attacked you , please help me .
ask swenson , i gave him everything i remembered .
ive gotten swensons official report , but that man is holding out .
i dont think everything is in there .
hes holding a lot of stuff close to his chest .
i can hardly wait for this to be over so i can dance on his dilemma , just like hes doing to me .
i already told swenson , he was a tiny man , looked like an elf because his ears stuck out .
probably had red hair .
why would you say that ?
he had watery , pale blue eyes .
most people with those eyes usually have red hair , thats why .
an elf with a ski mask on , santa must be having trouble keeping people .
oh , you joke , cassey chastised .
you have such a great defense , youre so pragmatic about everything .
i loved it there manny , all the time , not selective like you .
i loved that road because it was my peaceful place .
i dont think ill ever be able to go back there .
do you have any idea what ive lost ?
manny was silent .
red pine will never be the same , shes right .
manny hung up the phone without responding , knowing there was nothing more he could say .
right now im jealous of billy .
his definitive moments were in vietnam and he could leave it behind .
manny sat quietly , a neutral look on his face .
my god , cassey and i are having our first reality check , and its on our doorstep .
red hair , ears that stick out .
where have i heard that before ?
manny quickly dialed another number and waited .
the phone was answered on the fourth ring .
swenson , you talked to betty boop , manny said annoyed .
betty who ?
and what are you doing calling me at home , on christmas day ?
swenson didnt sound pleased .
you gave me the number to confess , if i decided to , remember ?
are you confessing ?
hell no , im just pissed about you calling betty boop .
who is betty boop ?
the betty , casseys mother .
that mustve been enlightening .
shes a little bit round the bend you know .
i didnt get that impression .
swenson , christ , she sees jesus in her tea leaves .
shes a christian , do you hold that against her ?
i dont hold anything against her , its the other way around .
cassey was raised in a house where she was intimidated by her mothers religious zeal .
cassey never went for it and was relieved to get out , away from the constant brow beating .
cassey has her own beliefs and chooses her own way of practicing them .
i never have , and never will interfere with that .
its christmas , anything more important to tell me ?
no , i just wanted to congratulate you for covering all the bases , manny said mad , slamming the phone back into its cradle .
later that day , a car came driving up mannys driveway , but he couldnt make out who was in it .
manny pulled on a jacket and went outside .
the car pulled right up to the garage , but whoever was inside didnt get out .
as manny approached the car , the drivers side window slide down and manny recognized deputy conner sitting behind the steering wheel .
mr. anderson , can i talk to you ?
she asked .
manny approached the open window , a peeved expression on his face .
deputy conner , what a surprise .
mr. anderson , id like a word with you , if you dont mind ?
conner said , still in the car .
it was evident that she didnt want to get out .
youre trying to ruin my life so please dont patronize me also .
my enemies call me manny , he said , walking up to the open window .
yes , manny , ah , i want you to know , ah , im not in line with the department .
i think thats how detective swenson would phrase it .
well , deputy , you must be out of line then .
in that case , you definitely can call me manny .
whats on your mind ?
this case , whats happening to you .
are you sure you want to discuss this with me , i mean , after all , swenson is your boss , and im sure he wouldnt be too happy about you disclosing anything to me .
conner sat there quiet for a moment , thinking .
i dont like my job anymore , she finally said .
i think youre innocent and i dont like swenson , and i dont like auburn .
why is it so bad to help you prove that ?
i got into law enforcement to help people , keep them safe .
i just dont get that feeling anymore .
whats your problem is , deputy conner , is carrie , please call me carrie , conner interrupted .
okay , carrie .
the problem youre experiencing is that you might have a conscience , you might have feelings .
your cohorts only remember being assembled and then packaged somewhere .
packaged ?
it was a reference to them being extremely anal , you know robot mentality .
ah , i make up mental personalities for the people i deal with , you know in my head , and swenson reminds me of the star in a futuristic cop movie , the indestructible half human , half machine character , unrelenting and undetourable .
thats detective swenson all right , but auburn is just plain dumb .
carrie started laughing .
whats so funny ?
i was just thinking , you compared swenson to a robot .
if you were to compare auburn to any machine , i wouldnt go any higher than a can opener .
it was mannys turn to laugh .
you mean i have nothing to worry about from auburn ?
oh , no , mr. , excuse me manny , hes just dumb enough to be dangerous .
he hangs on any word that swenson says .
hes the perfect model for swenson , doesnt care about anything but career advancement , and swenson is the top dog , if hes looking to go far , up in these woods .
auburn is the one that started the gay suspicions .
how the hell did he manage to get it in the paper ?
he went out to the lake , to that gay resort .
he figured that if you were gay , youd be known out there .
well , im not , just for your information .
swenson sent him out there ?
didnt super sleuth realize it would be enough to start the rumor , or didnt he care ?
im big news around here , because its cassey and me , and the assaults , and anything juicy is a short step to publication .
there are reporters from the cities here , for christ sakes .
it wasnt swenson , he just instructed auburn to check out if you might be gay .
auburn got the flash all on his own .
what does swenson think of it now ?
he says that if you are gay , it will come out now , for sure .
and now its a crime to be gay ?
i dont know what hes thinking , but im just sick about whats happening .
ive always wanted a relationship like you and your wife have , and now im expected to do everything i can to tear it apart .
my husband only wants methe little womanfor a conventional wife .
the only reason he agrees with my working is the money .
he would be a lot happier if i was only a waitress .
the responsibility i have is too much for his fragile ego .
sounds like you and the mr. are headed for trouble ?
we passed trouble a long time ago .
i want you to know , if there is anything i can do for you , i will try .
no , you lay low .
i dont want to see anyone else get burned by the zealots , unless the two super heroes cross the line , that is .
i think they did with the new york connection .
in what way ?
i was the one that went there , to check , to look for evidence .
and .
i didnt find anything concrete , but it looked like somebody might be out to make you look bad .
but , im not an experienced investigator .
did you meet with this mark tainer ?
yes , i interviewed him .
what was your impression of him ?
kind of into himself , if you know what i mean ?
not really , can you elaborate ?
he said he didnt want to help us point the finger at anyone , meaning you , but he was very helpful to us .
i think he was very impressed with how he manipulated me .
deputy , you are observant , something a cop needs .
maybe you should reconsider leaving the job .
i didnt say i was leaving the occupation , just thinking of changing locations .
chapter 35 for those of you still stuck in a snow bank , i have good news , the morning weather man announced over the radio .
we have a warming trend headed our way .
temperatures today will hit the low thirties , tomorrow the low forties , and the next day , back to minnesota in winter .
ice on the roads , goodbye , at least temporarily .
remember , its still january .
manny sat at the kitchen bar , a cup of coffee in his hands , looking out the window , fantasizing about the snow melting and spring coming .
but the warning , about it only being january , from the guy that was supposed to know , struck home .
it was time to go south .
if spring wasnt going to come to him , he would go to spring he decided , as carl and jason walked into the kitchen .
manny , someone is out to get you , jason whined .
you need to find the lowest point possible , curl up in a ball , and pull something over yourself for the time being .
not expose yourself .
hes not going to listen to you mcdermott , carl said .
i know this guy , hes about as determined as there is .
am i right manny , youre not about to do the sensible thing , and let the authorities handle it , are you ?
the authorities havent made it past the setup yet .
how long do i wait carl ?
how long is it going to take for them to figure it all out ?
a lot quicker , if you tell them what you know .
bah , i only have suspicions , and i already told swenson about tainer , and he didnt do anything .
he didnt find anything , carl commented .
there you go , manny announced .
manny , dont do something stupid !
carl begged .
they cant arrest you with what theyve got , and they certainly cant take you to trial .
you go off cowboying , and who knows what will happen .
i love you guys and your lawyer mentality .
you tell me dont worry , theres not enough to make it official , they cant put you in jail , yet .
i know thats what im paying you for , to keep me out of jail .
youre both giving me speeches based on your job descriptions .
what im having a problem with is beyond that , it goes all the way to my freedoms .
i certainly dont want to go to jail , especially since im not guilty of anything , but my life has been turned upside down and someone is using the system to do that .
and very effectively i might add .
considering how important my good life is to me , i think i should turn it over somebody that can understand the weight of this problem , and that would be me .
but , manny , this is way out of your league .
the worst thing you can do is make yourself vulnerable .
somebody is trying to kill you , carl pleaded yeah , and i cant sit around doing nothing about it .
you expect me to just sit and wait it out ?
is that your solution carl ?
i dont know manny , i just think that you could hire somebody or something .
get somebody that does this sort of thing .
ill think about it , but for now , im still the only one ive got .
what are your plans ?
im going on the lamb for starters .
its harder to hit a moving target .
i dont think swenson is going to like that , we promised him you would be available , jason declared .
fuck swenson , its my turn to piss him off .
manny , hes the law , hes got the system behind him , carl said .
just a warning , manny .
i know we cant stop you , and im not going to try anymore , but you stay in contact with us , you hear .
i dont know what swenson will do , you cut and run , but if he pulls the reigns in , youd better be available .
you hear me , manny ?
i hear you carl , and ill keep you informed .
if anything goes wrong , ill let you know what to do with the body .
jesus manny , for christ sakes , stop the joking around .
joking , im not joking carl .
someone is trying to kill me , and im pretty sure theyre not new at this .
what a set up , manny continued .
i need you guys to protect myself when ive done nothing wrong .
the system says i pay you regardless of whats right or wrong , i just pay , and be thankful .
chapter 36 manny took a cab down to the local chevy dealer and was standing in the show room , talking to stan markowitz .
stan and his father owned the dealership , and stan and manny had been friends since school days .
come on manny , let me put you in this vet .
you need some excitement in your life , stan said .
jesus stan , ive got all the excitement i can handle .
havent you heard ?
shit anderson , thatll all blow over .
i mean some real thrills .
this baby really flies .
markowitz had the classic salesman stance and his hands were directing mannys attention to the racy , white car .
handles like a dream , and i promise , itll give you a new lease on life .
probably end up killing myself , remember the last hot car i had ?
you were a dumb ass kid then , besides this is a real machine , not that straight line , suicide , piece of junk you had .
this is the latest in technology , three hundred pounds lighter than the regular corvette , a hundred more horses , and bigger brakes .
this thing handles and brakes like a dream .
you already said that .
youre starting to sound like a friggin salesman , repeating yourself .
manny , just take it for a week or so , see what you think .
im telling you , youll fall in love with it .
i dont know , i suppose it wouldnt hurt .
i need a car , considering the old one is down at the cop shop with bullet holes in it .
there you go anderson , if anyones after your sorry ass , you can leave em in the dust with this baby .
yeah , whatre you going to say if i bring it back with holes in it ?
is it that serious manny ?
i thought this whole thing was just blown out of proportion .
its serious stan .
i cant believe it .
ive known you for a long time and i dont believe it one bit .
what cant you believe , what part is it youre not going for ?
well , for one thing , i know youre not gay .
who the hell started that ?
that dumb fuck cop .
ive never had the pleasure of meeting the prick , but ill guarantee , hell never set foot in this place .
i appreciate the support , i havent been getting much lately .
yeah , i heard cassey left , but shell come to her senses .
i dont think her reasoning is all that stupid , considering whats happened .
what the hells going on manny ?
ive known you guys for a long time , and it just doesnt fit ?
am i missing something ?
big money .
huh ?
something big and powerful , something that could get me killed .
still want to give me the car ?
hell yes , were friends .
a hundred cars cant compare with that .
how many cars could compete with the story of a life time ?
what are you talking about ?
how many cars could equal the movie of the year , of the decade ?
manny , youre not making any sense .
what if i told you this was all because of a story .
about palmer ?
shit , he did his thing in the war , i guess .
he was a daring bastard , and i dont doubt he might have gotten involved in some exciting shit , but nothing worth any cash .
you knew him pretty well , didnt you ?
yeah , he was a character , and he sure could drive .
where did you hear about the palmer connection ?
that dip shit marilyn .
she was in here , blabbing as usual .
christ stan , you know you cant believe her .
i take her money , i dont take her serious , stan laughed .
im smarter than that .
lets hope so .
the story isnt about billy , its something he wrote .
his book ?
the one he was writing , the sci fi ?
yeah his book , you knew about it ?
oh sure , he approached me about it , a long time ago .
and ?
and the old man .
billy told me about it and i read a little .
fascinating story , but i was the grunt back then .
dear old dad wouldnt have nothing to do with something as silly as that , so i forgot about it .
does it come back to haunt me ?
not really , unless you like lots of money .
ah shit , i live for the stuff , you know that anderson .
yeah , well palmer had something big , we all should have paid better attention .
no shit , poor billy .
what did him in , you ever find out ?
no , and i dont know if i really want too .
i feel bad enough as it is .
so this is why someone is trying to rub you and cassey out .
its that big ?
oh yeah .
shit manny , are you serious , or just fuckin with me ?
ill trade you the car for a manuscript , then you tell me .
what else do you need ?
stan asked .
nothing really , but im planning to take a trip , to sort of disappear and clear my head , that sort of thing .
still want to give me the car ?
hell , yes , you should probably get a fuzz buster though .
if you want to go fast , they come in handy , stan advised .
sounds like a good idea , throw one in .
not me old pal , slightly illegal , but go see keaton .
hell sell you one of his .
is that guy still fooling with his weird electronics ?
manny asked .
yup , weirder than ever though , stan laughed .
guys a real genius .
i keep telling him he should go to work for some big company , but he says that would just hold him back .
he claims he has a computer that programs itself .
theres a great leap for ya , machines that dont need us .
i hope they dont decide that were in the way , like not necessary , the way we constantly shit in our nest .
jesus manny , i never considered that .
shit , i hope keaton isnt as smart as i think he is .
well , hes always been the guy i would figure to blow up the world , manny chuckled .
damn , now you got me worried anderson .
kenny is just over the border in wisconsin , ill give you the address .
chapter 37 a quick thrust with the left leg down and then immediately back out on the clutch petal , timed with a sharp rearward snap of the right hand , and a flick of the right foot on the throttle , and the car transmissioned into second gear , the gut wrenching acceleration barely interrupted .
manny watched the tachometer wind furiously up again , and less than three seconds later he slammed the car into third gear , the speedometer well past one hundred miles an hour , climbing like the hand of a clock gone mad .
the whole time the acceleration forces pushed his body steadily into the seat .
the speedometer passed one hundred thirty just as the tachometer reached the red numbers at seven thousand and manny shifted the car hard into fourth gear , the machine continuing its hard snarling charge .
the corvette z06 was still pushing him hard into the seat as the numbers quickly approached one fifty and seven thousand respectfully .
this time manny pulled his foot back on the accelerator and shifted into the fifth gear , but just letting the car cruise .
manny saw a gentle turn in the road just ahead , and came into it still holding the one hundred and fifty .
this is nuts anderson , youre going too fast , back off , youre going to kill yourself .
a slight apprehension , as manny worked the curve .
shit , this thing feels like its got paws , manny delighted , coming out of the corner .
i cant believe how this car holds the road .
i went through that corner like nothing .
i cant believe a car can do that .
manny watched the long highway curve disappearing quickly in his rear view mirror , a wicked smile on his face .
thank you stan .
to hell with all the heavy shit , i feel like a kid again .
oh , oh , car coming , better start acting my age again .
manny reluctantly started to bleed off the speed , approaching the coming auto and passing at a sensible eighty five .
oh , oh , a town coming up in the distance , i guess my fun is over for the day .
manny had left the highway looking for food and gas .
he pulled into a travel center and stopped at one of the pumps .
he went inside to pay , wanting some snacks and something to drink .
manny was just screwing the gas cap back in place , when a car speeding down the highway suddenly hits the brakes , a little too hard , trying to slow down enough to make the turn into the gas station .
it was just a slight squealing of tires , but enough to get mannys attention .
he watched a big , sporty , black , euro sedan coming his way .
the car turned into the next lane of gas pumps and drove through rather fast , the driver looking the other way .
just as the car was going past manny , on the other side of the pumps , the driver turned to look straight ahead .
manny saw the driver from the side for just a moment .
it was a small skinny guy , he could make out that much .
a small skinny guy with protruding ears , and very red hair .
nothing registered with manny until he was back in the vet and back driving on the highway .
he looked in his rear view mirror to check on traffic behind him , as customary , and spotted the big black car just coming on the highway , turning the same way he was going .
manny got the strangest sensation of dread , looking back on the car , suddenly realizing who he might have just seen .
an hour later , manny left the freeway and drove into a city , looking for the address stan gave him for kenny keaton .
manny used the gps navigation in the car and the place he was looking for was a snap .
manny , friggin anderson , how the hell you doing ?
a skinny , bald man shouted , as manny walked into an electronics shop .
long time no see .
what has it been , twenty five years ?
at least that long electron , manny said , reaching out to shake the mans hand .
geez , i havent been called that in ages .
i hope youre not offended ?
manny laughed .
no , no , not at all , brings back pleasant memories , back when things werent so serious .
things been tough for you ?
oh no , i just remember life as being a lot more fun when we were kids , kenny said .
i have two of my own now , and their world is full of , as we would say , heavy shit .
i think we grew up in the last good time .
i guess , but we had our problems then too .
not like today , things are going too fast , kenny commented .
coming from you that scares me , manny returned .
i always thought you were on top of things .
still am , and trust me , our society is not ready for whats ahead .
great , i should dig a hole and pull the dirt in after me ?
nah , not you , youre smart , successful , youre safe .
i guess you havent heard ?
i talked to stan , he called , said youd be by .
so you know the mess i got myself in ?
manny said .
stan said you were bored , and consequently blowing it out of proportion .
got two bullet holes in my car .
maybe somebody thought you were a deer .
ha , ha , they went after cassey too .
well , she looks more like a deer than you do .
stans sure whoever is responsible has backed off , he cant see them still after you .
thats according to stan , however .
theyre still there .
i saw one of them an hour ago .
whoa , how could they know where you are ?
stan said you left this morning , and hes told no one about the new car , or which direction you headed .
anybody else know you were coming here ?
not a soul , but i just started watching my rear end to see if anyones been following after the thing at the gas station .
im pretty sure thats not possible .
some of those guys are good , you might not have spotted a tail .
manny pointed out the front of the shop to the low , sleek , white car parked at the curb .
i had that vet up to a hundred and fifty , how could anyone stay with me without me knowing it ?
someone else going one fifty , keaton stated .
but , keaton hesitated .
id think they would tend to stick out .
keaton hesitated again .
so you might be right ?
yeah , thats what i was figuring .
im almost positive i spotted the guy that went after cassey .
positive ?
oh yeah !
i got chills down my spine when i saw him , manny confessed .
there are other ways to track you , kenny said .
like what ?
a simple transmitter , something like that .
i went to see stan , he gave me the car , i put my things in it and left .
how could anyone slip a transmitter in on me ?
your things , it could be in there ?
no shit ?
i didnt think of that .
what the hell do i do now ?
not to worry sport , i can sweep for a bug , its really simple .
five minutes later , keaton , using a small hand held device , announced .
its in your phone , and the phone has been rigged .
dammit , how could i have been so stupid , manny growled .
how were you supposed to know ?
keaton responded .
what did they do to it ?
well , its got a chip that gives out the exact location , a gps .
the satellite thing ?
got one in the car .
the satellite thing , kenny concurred .
whoever did the phone , knows its position to within five feet .
oh man , that fucker set me up big time .
want to hear the rest of it ?
theres more ?
manny exclaimed .
might as well .
dont sound so violated !
you could have the upper hand now , dont blow it .
whatre you getting at electron ?
anderson !
apparently someone is out to get your ass , and they worked one on you .
no shit !
so ?
you know about the phone , dont let them in on it .
make them think you dont know about it and thats your advantage .
but they can follow me ?
jesus , dip shit , think !
kenny yelled .
you can lead them to where you want .
are you really that dense ?
ah !
many hesitated .
no , but actually , i would just as soon never see those guys again .
so then , call the cops .
they think im guilty .
so , what are you going to do anderson ?
who the hell is after you , and what are you going to do about it ?
huh , answer me that ?
manny took a deep breath , thinking .
i dont know , i cant keep running .
i have to get cassey back , and right now she thinks im a big screw up .
so do something !
kenny exclaimed .
by the way , they also rigged your phone to make only certain calls .
if you dial any number other than the one they want , you will get a bad signal alert .
no way , that phone has been working perfectly all along .
thats how its rigged , smuck .
when whoever is controlling it can signal the phone when they want , and it will no longer work properly .
and you think this is an advantage ?
get another phone anderson !
kenny said , talking to manny like he was a spoiled child .
ill give you a new one , and then work a reverse dupe back on them .
you know , im about ready for that !
manny said excited .
ive been fucked with long enough .
youre right keaton , everyones been taking a piece out of my ass , and its time for a pay back .
atta boy anderson !
kenny laughed .
i was wondering when the old daring sven would get fed up .
i dont remember you backing off from much of anything .
billy was there then .
i had a cushion .
stan told me this had something to do with palmer so hes still there , anderson .
do you have any suspects in this dastardly deed ?
oh , i know whos responsible , i can guarantee that .
well , there you go shit head , whats your problem ?
i was thinking you were in the dark about who was doing this to you , and now you tell me that isnt true .
no , no , i know whos responsible .
then lets figure out how to get them .
youre offering your help .
hell yes , cant let people mess with my old friends without getting in it , can i ?
guess not .
sorry to hear about billy , he was a good guy , keaton stated , looking out the window , watching it get dark .
i could talk to him about what i was trying to do and he would understand the basics .
he never called me a nut , like some others i knew .
sorry about that , manny said , sheepishly .
you didnt know what was possible then , not your fault , keaton stated .
you do any work on lasers ?
manny asked .
nah , to big , too bulky still .
im doing independent electron beams .
got me there , i dont think ive even heard of them .
not much is said cause theyre still fairly weak and short range , but theres some fantastic materials on the horizon , and the possibilities are limitless .
where the hell do you get the funds to do all this ?
lets just say that some of your tax dollars are coming my way .
no shit !
i have to say though , im surprised to see youre still alive , manny commented with a chuckle .
after some of the hair brained shit you used to try .
you mean like the power line fiasco ?
that one stands out in my mind , yes .
whoa , my hair stood on end for a while , didnt it ?
mandy still walks sideways by me .
mandy , you two still together ?
yup .
you talked about having kids with her ?
how did you mange if she avoids contact ?
she figures im safe when im lying down .
keaton and manny both broke out laughing these supposed bad guys went after cassey , keaton asked , and you say theyre still on your ass ?
dont you worry about her ?
shes with her parents .
batty betty , is she still preaching the gospel ?
keaton asked , raising an eyebrow .
shes still around , what else would she be doing ?
not qualified for much else , but she must be doing something right , kenny snickered .
i would have thought someone would have run her down long ago .
nah , doesnt work , she just gets back up .
so you figure that gods prime agent is enough to keep your wife out of danger ?
no .
i hired some outside help .
manny shrugged .
her parents have a live in to help with casseys father .
hes bed ridden these days , and the regular decided to take a vacation .
hes a good guy , but how did you get a plant past , the betty ?
shes a sweet , old , white haired lady .
thats your idea of protection ?
geta gogelbright , the sweet old lady geta gogel keaton interrupted .
thats her real name ?
i dont know !
i was just told that she is an ex operative for the mossad .
ive been assured that she can handle herself , and anyone else that might want to hurt cassey .
two other gentlemen are also always close by .
christ , that must be expensive ?
oh , it is !
and , im worried about the cops finding out .
i havent told anybody about this , and if it surfaces , it will just be more explaining to do .
thats why youre right about me needing to do something .
dont get me wrong , id spend everything to protect cassey , but id rather enjoy my money , rather than spend it like that .
have you met this geta , whatever ?
no , but my son whos a special forces dude is scared shitless of her .
you need some power , anderson , come across any lately ?
i dont know what youre getting at ?
power , something to set you apart from the masses .
you think im just part of the big stupid plan ?
sounds like it .
youre the typical american success story .
take you out of your comfort zone and you flounder .
not sure of yourself if something unexpected comes your way .
got to change that if youre going to have a chance .
somebody is not playing by the rules you are accustomed to , and youre waiting , letting them make the moves .
youre fucking with me too .
no , im trying to make you think .
thats your only other choice .
whats the first choice , you left it out ?
the cops .
you tell me youre innocent , let them do your dirty work .
right now , i dont trust the system .
back to my option , huh ?
kenny said with a smirk on his face .
lets hear it , manny surrendered okay anderson , this is what you need .
first that phone .
what good is the phone , its rigged ?
manny , manny , manny , we add a little something .
you leave it somewhere appropriate .
they zero in on it , and instead of finding you there , they find something unexpected .
maybe arrows up their ass ?
you still good with the bow ?
whoa keaton , that is very nasty , im shocked .
well , do you still shoot as good as i remember ?
probably better , but these guys have guns .
oh , i was just speculating , but just think of the shock value if you can get them into the right situation .
whoever is messing with your well being could be surprised , no ?
i dont know kenny , i might be way out of their league .
even things up manny !
you had any inspirations lately , anything spooky youve come across .
oh thats what you meant ?
ah , yeah , come to think of it , i had this old man show me something i didnt expect , or still cant explain .
didnt expect , or cant explain ?
what do you mean by that ?
well , i think he might have been messing with me .
tell the story manny .
he made me see things .
was it him , or you .
oh no , it was me , i was there all right .
shit manny , youre scaring me .
you take on an eighteen thousand volt transmission line , and now youre afraid of a vision i had .
just a vision ?
i had an experience with a game somebody talked about too , but i did that on my own .
but the vision seemed to be in a different time .
a different time , explain ?
i think i saw something that happened long ago ?
how can you be sure ?
the people i saw have been dead for quite a while .
this old guy opened something for you , keaton stated .
huh ?
maybe he opened some sort of portal , a gateway or something .
oh come on kenny , i dont believe in that sort of thing .
guess you were dreaming or something , or your mind made it up .
no , i was definitely there , and i was awake .
then something happened .
manny was silent , thinking .
yeah , something happened , he said after a minute .
can you get me a compound bow ?
i can get you anything you want manny .
chapter 38 manny felt comfortable on the road again , he and the car were becoming one .
keatons device had warned him more than once to the radar the cops were using , well in advanced to any problems .
he was heading south , to the spot he had discovered on his trip back from seeing walsh the place he stopped at in georgia and fantasied about making a stand .
he didnt really have a plan and he wasnt sure he could go through with anything , but the feeling of doing something was lifting his spirits .
as he drove farther south the weather deteriorated and he crossed into georgia with the windshield wipers sweeping back and forth .
just as it was getting dark he stopped in a little town close his destination .
the rain had stopped , but was replaced by damp low clouds .
he rented a motel room on the main highway , requesting one that was around the back .
he unlocked the door to the room , went inside , put the cell phone on the bed and went back out .
staying behind the motel , manny walked to a small park he had spotted coming into town .
he sat down against a tree back out of the light and started to eat a sandwich he had bought the last time he had filled the car with gas .
a full moon was rising above the trees , but the cloud layer stole any light it would have contributed , leaving only a big white ball .
the temperature was very comfortable .
within the time it took him to eat half the sandwich , he spotted the big black sedan drive by the motel up the street .
it continued toward where manny was hidden and passed by .
there were two figures in the car , and manny was positive that the passenger was mark tainer .
the vehicle cruised by without slowing down and headed toward the edge of the town .
manny watched the vehicle until it was out of town and made his dash back to the room .
he raced inside , grabbed the phone and ran out to the corvette .
manny gunned the car out of the motel parking lot , spinning the rear wheels easily on the cold pavement causing the car to fishtail , the engine winding up furiously .
manny shifted it hard , exiting the edge of the small town in a power slide .
the road to the lake was a winding one , but manny could remember , it is fairly wide and the surface is good .
slow it down fool !
he begged himself as he came to the first tight turn , down shifting precisely , playing the brakes just right , the car diving down into the corner .
hot damn !
manny shouted , putting his foot into the throttle , the car blasting forward .
manny shifted quickly , gobbling up the distance to the next corner , a longer gentler one .
manny took this corner a little safer , but when he looked down quickly at the speedometer , he was shocked to see it reading one hundred and fifteen .
i guess a ticket wont make my day any worse , manny rationalized .
there were a total of fourteen more turns to the spot he was headed and manny pushed the car hard .
what am i afraid of more , this road , or the men coming for me ?
manny flashed by the spot he was looking for , the car in a full drift , the rear sliding out farther than the front .
he jammed the brakes , the tires squawking as the car decelerated .
manny spun the wheel sharply , and the corvette pirouetting in the middle of the road .
what the hell was that all about ?
manny was sitting in the middle of the road , tire smoke hanging around the car like a small , phantom fog bank .
am i glad i made it , or did i want to crash , so it wouldnt come to this ?
manny sat there watching the smoke dissipate .
i can stay and make a stand , get this over with , or i can keep on driving , think of something else .
manny put the car in gear and started slowly back up the road .
if i just drive away , it will come to this again , i know it will .
manny drove up to the spot .
it wont end until i do something about it , he said quietly to himself .
he pulling off the road , parking the vet as far off the pavement as possible .
it was out of view unless somebody looked hard .
the clouds had thickened , leaving the florescent globe of the moon barely discernible .
he clicked on the phone and tried to dial his home number , but the phone wouldnt pick up a signal , just like keaton had told him .
he speed dialed tainers cell number and the signal came back immediately .
manny only got the request to leave a message .
hey tainer , got bat there with you , huh ?
was his message .
manny put the phone back down and waited .
the phone rang within a minute .
manny picked it up , pressed talk , and put it up to his ear .
no one spoke , but manny knew he had an open line .
come on tainer , i saw bat back at the gas station , yesterday , in the big black car .
you guys operate well , that car must have cost more than the rocket im driving .
bat obrien is not in vietnam anymore , is he tainer ?
he made it back , right ?
you should pick your accomplishes better , or not give such a good description .
he sure is an ugly little fucker .
i know hes there with you now ?
i know because i saw you and bat go by the motel a bit ago .
still no answer hes the one that tried to get to cassey .
how did he manage to get lucky with george ?
that dog probably weighed as much as he does , if you described him right and i think you did , according to cassey .
and , how come he missed me ?
did i slip just at the right time , or was he still hurting from the beating george gave him ?
still no answer come on tainer .
i know its you on the line .
yes , manny , im on the line , and hes right here , tainer finally answered .
manny could detect a little hesitation in his voice .
that was poor judgment , though , calling him ugly .
he informs me that he will now do his job with extreme prejudice .
i assume he means that he will not be kind .
you mean you were going to kill me kindly , and now that ive objected , you will do me mean spirited ?
im curious though ?
now that were into the explanation stage , just what have i done to justify my murder in the first place ?
again there was no response .
come on tainer , give me your version of the justification for this .
i know bat just likes to hurt people .
by the way , bat , you listening ?
my wife has left me because of you , and the quickest way to regain her admiration would be to even the score about george .
not that i might get some pleasure from it myself because i loved that big old hound too .
tainer didnt respond .
come on girls , talk to me , manny taunted .
youre the assholes that are ruining my way of life .
i figured it out , and now you dont want to participate .
you certainly are a couple of pricks in my book .
billy was a man , youre not , tainer finally responded angrily .
i want his lifes story .
dont bullshit me tainer , youre not interested in billys life story , youre interested in timtown .
you can tell the vietnam story in your own words , you were there .
you want his writing .
all this is nothing but deflection .
i read timtown , cassey kept a copy , and i read it .
its a terrific story .
you want to steal it to call it your own .
where do you go from here ?
tainer asked .
are you talking about bargaining with me ?
no , manny , you have nothing to bargain with , and you are not a brave man .
so you expect me to do nothing , is that what youre hoping ?
theres nothing you can do .
you have nowhere to go , manny , so i guess all this supposition is good for the soul .
i talked to the police guy , swenson , yesterday and he is pissed about you running .
he thinks he screwed up and let you get away .
so he is hunting you at this moment , but dont worry , im not the kind of guy that would tell on you .
the connection went dead , cut from the other end .
manny put the phone down on the passengers seat , certain that mark tainer was not interested in talking to him any farther .
the phones physiological use was gone , for now .
manny waited , and a couple of minutes later he saw headlights coming up the road .
his first feeling was fear .
i can back the vet out on the road and be gone before they get to me , or i can stay and try to fight .
manny feels for the large canvas bag on the rear deck , behind the seats .
he pulls the bag over the passenger seat and it flops down beside him .
the headlights are maybe a couple of minutes away , as manny looks intently at the bag .
he watches the approaching headlights some more .
this is the only way ill ever get my whole life back .
even if the truth gets told , the truth will still be that i jeopardized casseys life , foolishly .
both of us will always have that hanging over us .
i need to finish this now .
manny grabbed the cell phone , the bag , and opened the car door .
it was pitch black outside because the clouds had thickened and the moon was gone .
he walked to the edge of the road , snapped on the small pen light he had , and stepped into the underbrush at the same spot as two weeks before .
he was fifty feet into the thick growth , moving down the same narrow game trail when he heard a car approaching on the road above .
he heard bat and tainers car skidding to a stop in the gravel .
two doors opened , as manny reached the bottom of the slope .
he started up the hill , the sound of the trunk being slammed hurrying him on .
he used the pen light intermittently and only down at the ground .
manny , you fool !
tainer yelled from the road .
youre making this too easy .
i knew youd panic !
i knew youd be no match for us .
but for gods sake anderson , why out here , why make it so easy ?
you can run as fast as you like , go ahead and run , manny , you can run , and run , and run , but there is no place to go .
manny could hear muffled voices from the road as he found the rock cap and turned left , still going up .
manny located the small protected place from the first trip , sat down , took the cell phone and dialed tainers number .
hello manny , tainer answered immediately .
leave me alone , tainer , manny used a pleading tone .
theyre going to know it was you .
anderson , no one is going to think anything close , tainer laughed into the phone .
you see , youre guilty in everyones eyes , and youre on the edge of losing it .
they wont be surprised that you had to end it all , theyll expect it .
they dont even know im here .
besides im covered manny , no one will ever find your body .
manny anderson is just going to disappear off the face of the planet .
im going to do you , and no one will ever know the truth .
back up toward the road , manny could see a light , barely showing through the heavy vegetation .
it was making its way down .
arent these things wonderful ?
tainer continued .
i mean the cell phones .
you and i can talk , carry on a conversation while i hunt you down .
shit , in vietnam we couldnt even carry radios , to heavy , lousy batteries .
manny could hear tainer and bat struggling through the thick growth , they hadnt found the game trail in their over confidence .
just think manny , billy and i went into the teeth of the dragon , hoping like hell we didnt need any help because there was none .
we couldnt make a call if our life depended on it .
back then we didnt have something like a cell phone to call for the cavalry .
damn smart of me to switch yours , huh ?
geez , i just amaze myself sometimes .
manny quickly opened the bag and withdrew the compound bow and a large quiver of arrows kenny had gotten him .
he sat back against the rocks and took many deep breaths , trying to calm himself , looking for the confidence he knew he would need .
you got yourself into this , sport , and now there is just one way out .
why have you done this to yourself ?
why and hell do something so fuckin dumb .
tainer is probably right .
ive backed myself into a corner , and now there is only one way out .
can you believe it manny , tainer started the taunts again .
whod think youd end up in a pickle like youre in .
manny saw the light at the bottom of the rock slide , and could make out two individuals down there , looking around , trying to figure which way he had gone .
crazy mothers .
shit if i had a rifle , i could at least nail one of them .
why am i up here with just my bow ?
tainer and bat just stood at the bottom of the slide a hundred and fifty yards away , moving the light back and forth , uncertain what to do .
who , in this day and age , tainer continued , could imagine having their worst nightmare hot on their heels , and their fuckin cell phone is no good .
got to put that in my book , the one i write after timtown hits the shelves .
timtown , what a goddamn gold mine , and it fell right into my lap .
billy would have wanted me to have it , you know .
i was his friend , not you manny .
not your sweet assed wife either .
me , manny , me , cause i was the one that was with billy when he developed into the kind of man that was capable of writing that classic .
i covered his ass when he had the talent forming in his brain .
bat was holding something in his one hand and pointing up toward mannys position with the other .
you had nothing to do with the billy the writer , tainer said as he looked in the direction bat was pointing .
you and your turd friends didnt appreciate him or the person he became .
you denied him the basic rights he deserved , the simple act of respect , the common decency to listen to what he had to say .
he came to you , asked you to listen to him , to help him with that book , his dream .
thats what that story was you know , his dream , his ticket to the life you all got , the one he worked for and never achieved .
its your fault manny , you killed billy , and now im going to kill you .
tainer and bat spread out , circling the outcrop , angling up toward him .
manny watched patiently as the two men climbed toward him .
manny selected an arrow and notched it into the bow .
im going up against professionals here .
these fuckers are killers , and ive got to do this now and do it right .
manny took a few more moments breathing deeply , getting the oxygen , letting the tension flow out , getting settled for what was going to be a defining moment , or the end of his life .
tainer had move to within seventy yards , shinning the light around , but not spotting manny yet .
manny took a couple of more deep breaths and pulled the bow up .
he drew the arrow back , holding the tension , steadying himself , aiming .
manny had the bow drawn all the way back , taking careful aim .
make this count dammit .
and he let the arrow fly .
the bow gave a sharp twang , and the arrow sped on its way .
a second later , there is a loud shattering of glass and the light was gone .
son of a bitch !
tainer screamed , the destroyed light bouncing on the rocks .
what the fuck was that ?
mark !
bat yelled back , as manny could hear the two men scrambling on the rocks down below .
i think that crazy son of a gun has a bow !
which way did it come from ?
tainer asked in a quieter voice .
how should i know ?
bat responded .
you had the light .
.
.
its really dark out here .
oh great , tainer snarled , fuckin afraid of the dark .
up yours tainer !
im not an owl .
how did that dip weed get that lucky ?
shit , i dont know , but lets get this thing done , and keep your voice down , youre supposed to be a professional for christ sakes .
i dont even know which way he is , bat whispered .
that guys screwed when i find him though .
lets spread out , hes got to be close .
manny could hear the men talking , but it was difficult to hear exactly what they were saying , but he can tell they arent too happy with the situation .
manny waited , quietly , listening for a sound to give him another target .
i hear you .
manny let another arrow fly , directed toward the sound of somebody stepping on a twig .
gosh dangit !
bat shouted .
what the hells your problem ?
tainer hissed .
he shot at me .
didnt you hear it ?
bat said , running toward tainer .
yeah , i think so , you okay ?
yeah , darn near got me , though .
bat was breathing hard .
went right passed my ear .
well , shut the fuck up , tainer whispered .
hes shooting at the sounds , you dumb prick .
great , we got robin hood two thousand out here , bat whispered back .
what the heck are we going to do without a light , huh , you answer me that one ?
what if hes got one of them night seeing things ?
well wait him out , he cant get far , and when it gets light are you nuts ?
bat whined .
thats hours from now .
well freeze to death out here .
what the hell is wrong with you ?
i can remember when nothing bothered you .
yeah , well , i went to work in the cities where its a little more comfortable , and i got spoiled .
christ , im glad palmer is not around to hear that , hed be so disappointed .
fuck you .
bat , i thought profanity was against your grain .
yeah , well im really mad .
you going to belly ache , or get the job done ?
i paid you good money .
not enough tainer .
i almost got eaten by a dog , big as a car .
now were stumbling around in the dark , with a suit flicking arrows our way .
this wasnt planned very good mark tainer started to stumble on one of the rocks , the noise alerting manny to his location .
manny let loose with another arrow .
shit !
tainer exclaimed , his voice following a loud thunk .
i heard it , bat shouted .
i heard where it came from .
up there , up to the left , i think hes up in the rocks .
did he come close ?
lets get the hell out of here !
tainer exclaimed , the sound of tumbling rocks marking his retreat .
manny stuck to his ground as he heard the two men moving back up the game trail toward the road .
shit , theyre going back to the road , what the hell do i do now ?
manny mumbled under his breath .
they can just wait there for me , really smart anderson .
manny heard the trunk of the car open , and then a few moments later another light flicked on .
how close did he come ?
bat asked , shining the light back into the trees , toward where they retreated from .
close enough , ive got an arrow stuck in my back pack , tainer answered , breathing hard .
he sure is a lucky guy , bat said .
hes not lucky , you dumb ass , tainer growled .
thats why he brought us here , you twit !
tainer explained .
remember palmer telling us about that friend of his that was phenomenal with a bow ?
oh yeah , i think i remember that ?
well , shit for brains , guess whos out there ?
tainer squawked .
nah , he cant be that dumb .
theres two of us with guns , nah , cant be .
im not saying hes too smart , bat , but hes challenging us .
we fucked up his life , good , and now he thinks hes going to get even .
geez , dumb smucks got guts , maybe we should just forget this ?
not hardly , youre in this to the end now .
tainer , dont tell me what to do , i dont like that .
i dont give a rats ass what you like or dont like .
fuck you tainer !
bat moved toward the car , a defiant look on his face .
nobody tells me what to do .
youll do what i tell you , or else .
or else what ?
that time with the two little girls .
nobodys going to believe you .
youre a goddamn deserter , bat .
dont you think the military would be real interested in finding your ass .
they get their hands on you and then check you out , and they find that most of the time you werent out hunting viet cong , you were out raping poor little village girls .
no one cared back there , bat stated .
dont try to bullshit me , bat , you were damn glad billy never found out about your dirty little secret .
he would have killed you on the spot , and you knew it .
pure white billy palmer , bunch of crud .
regardless , we have a job to do .
stumbling around in the dark , trying to find super suit thinks hes william tell ?
yeah , well , that might be my fault , tainer laughed .
i guess i should have gone easier on him with all the rhetoric .
what you talking about ?
i was kind of belittling him with all the nam stories .
i guess the poor sap took me serious and is trying to prove himself .
you still have the locater right .
yeah .
well , give it to me .
that stupid shits still got the phone .
i dont feel like spending any more time out here either .
i dont like being out all night either , lets go , bat said , starting back into the underbrush .
hold your horses bat , lets have some fun , first , tainer said , grabbing bat by the belt , stopping him .
funs killing him .
geez , youre sure consistent , tainer said to bat , then stepped back and shouted from the road into the woods .
so youre the bowman !
tainer waited a moment .
billy told me about you , but he never gave me a name .
just said he knew a guy that could hit anything with a bow .
i never made the connection , manny , but you cant hit what you cant see .
manny shouted back .
didnt billy tell you what the bowmans specialty was ?
manny noted the hesitation , the time tainer was taking , thinking over the answer .
it was the defining moment .
no , he never mentioned it , tainer hollered moments later .
bullshit tainer , i think youre lying .
i think you know what i can do .
i went to the doctor , mark , for a checkup recently .
mark , i had my hearing and night vision checked .
theyre both great for a man my age , especially my hearing , aaannd , i think you can put two and two together .
i have an advantage over you now .
you confessed to me that you wouldnt last a day in this kind of environment .
tainer , its true what billy told you about me .
the bowman can hit a very small target in the dark .
ive kept up with it mark .
all these years , its my forte .
hey , i like this psychological bullshit .
bat and i never got to play mind games with the quarry before .
this has an interesting twist , dont you think so bat ?
i like it too , bat shouted .
manny , tainer yelled again .
boy , you know , youre something , risking your neck like this just to prove youre a man .
i got to give you credit manny , youre not the pricy milk toast i figured you to be .
my hat is off to you .
too bad its bat im sending after you .
if it was anyone else , you might have a chance .
bat got beat up by my dog , and already missed me once , manny laughed loudly .
tainer was silent , waiting for manny to respond again , but manny was done talking , it was time to move .
he left the cell phone behind .
i guess you dont have anything to say , out there all alone , with bat and me coming to get you .
i dont blame you manny , you did a real stupid thing and now youre going to pay .
tainer gave bat a nod , and the two men reentered the heavy undergrowth .
manny was moving , trying to find his next position .
he traversed across the hill slowly .
it was incredibly dark , the thick clouds still covering the moon .
he used the pen light sparingly and was very conscious of the track he was taking , keeping the last location firmly in his mind , because its where the rigged cell phone is .
think , manny , think , the one that does the best wins , and i cant afford to lose this one .
come to me wendell , you got me into this , now dont let me down .
manny moved down slightly , and then back up into another clump of boulders .
he moved around them slightly and stopped .
he could barely make out some shapes seventy five feet awaythe rocks he had come from .
manny settled down to wait .
manny crouched , listening intently , hopping for a sound to tell him where tainer and bat were , sniffing the air soundlessly , carefully , waiting for a clue .
the smells and sounds of the night were all around him .
he could hear the chirping of an insect close on his right , down on the ground fifteen feet away .
he could smell the damp , decaying vegetation , the pungent smell of an over ripened fruit or flower .
something scampered through the leaves going across his front .
it sounded small and in a hurry , moving away .
a quiet hooting sound came from behind him , but he could tell it was in a tree , high up , so no danger to him .
patience , manny , patience .
in the far reaches of his mind manny heard a voice , hes not sure if it is his own consciousness , or encouragement from elsewhere .
wait for them manny , wait .
they dont know what youre up to manny .
theyre hoping youre scared and unprepared .
manny sat very still , waiting for the first clue .
a slight breeze rustled the leaves of the tree he was waiting under .
whats that smell , it sure doesnt belong here ?
ive smelled that before , but where ?
manny lifted his head , raising his chin to get his nose up into the air , but nothing registers , the slight breeze was gone as fast as it appeared .
the air moves again , and the faint smell is back .
manny sniffed , analyzing the smell .
aftershave .
that stupid tainer , thats the scent he uses .
manny moved his head around .
what direction is the breeze coming from ?
.
.
.
come on , a little harder .
.
.
.
come on , give me a clue .
.
.
.
damn , quit again .
moments passed .
there it is , and its coming from across the hill .
gotcha tainer , you bugger .
dumb fuck went for the cell phone .
in the distance , manny can hear a car coming down the mountain road , still a couple of miles away .
god damnit , pay attention , dont let your mind wander like that , manny scolded himself .
im not in a position to make any mistakes .
he heard a twig snap across on the other slope , right where he suspected his target to be .
he focused his senses to the direction and waited .
the car coming down the road drove around a corner and for a moment the headlights point to where the hunt is taking shape .
in the brief second the lights are just right , and they splash intermittent light through all the foliage .
for the briefest of moments , a mans vague outline is there , fifty feet away .
gotcha .
it is quickly dark again , but it is enough for manny to register a target .
he drew the bow back and steadied his aim , waiting for something to give him the exact spot .
ive shot at three deer , but never hit one .
i think i didnt want to kill them , and subconsciously missed .
i wonder if i will be able to do this ?
it was a couple of seconds before manny heard a foot go down on some leaves .
manny registered the exact spot in his mind , raised his aim three feet and quickly fired an arrow , but he was careless because the arrow went through the leaves of a tree ten feet away spoiling the shot and making noise , giving away his location .
a burst of automatic rifle fire from the left caught manny by surprise .
bullets smacked all around him , shredding the leaves and sending chips of rock flying .
as he dropped like a stone to the ground , manny felt a sharp pain in his side .
he rolled up tight to the rocks .
oh shit , they got me .
he put his hand to his side and felt blood .
oh shit , i wonder how bad this is ?
manny flexed his arm and shoulder , then his side .
a stinging pain registers , but nothing unbearable .
oh man , where the hell did he come from ?
oh shit , surprise , im in a world of hurt .
dammit , ive really done it , what do i do now ?
manny could feel what must be panic coming on .
the need to run , to flee , to find safety , anywhere , anyhow .
get a hold of yourself .
manny can feel something else .
im not giving up .
then he starts to feel anger .
not now .
not after ive been wronged .
i want to get even .
i want to punish whoever is coming to get me , coming to spoil my life , take away my privilege to live .
assholes .
manny could hear someone walking across the slope , heading right for him .
you want me ?
manny notched another arrow and raised up to his knees , ignoring the pain in his side .
okay people , you might get me , but you are going to pay dearly .
and he let loose with the bolt .
a scream of pain and surprise pierces the night .
whoever is hit , retreated down the hit , cursing loudly .
bat !
tainer yelled from down the hill .
that fucker just shot me !
kill him !
kill him now , and do it mean !
i think i might have got him !
bat shouted from the location the automatic rifle fired .
like hell you did , you moronic elf !
he just nailed me with another fuckin arrow !
kill him now !
golly tainer , that boy is pretty good with that thing .
i dont know ?
manny fired an arrow at the sound of bats voice , but the arrow struck rock .
bat was respecting mannys prowess by hiding behind the rocks .
manny could hear bat on the other side of the rocks , maybe sixty feet away .
hey anderson !
bat called .
i hit you , i know i did .
manny said nothing , thinking furiously .
shit , im screwed .
he can come around the rocks from either side , and i cant do a thing about it .
come on mister , give it up , bat called , trying to sound sympathetic .
i wont hurt you , i promise .
if i have got to come and get you , im going to have to kill you though .
manny leaned back against the rocks .
hey mister , bat called again .
got to do something , got to do something .
come on , come on .
cant let it end here , not like this .
manny pushed away from the rocks and listened carefully .
your times up , bat called out .
a sudden shift in the heavy clouds overhead allowed a dim outline of the moon to appear .
it was just a faint light coming from above , but it seemed to bath the area where bat was hiding , with an eerie glow .
there was a cone of light , dim at the outer edges , brighter in toward the middle .
manny is transfixed by the strange occurrence .
opened something , kennys voice comes to manny .
hey bat , manny called out .
what kind of deal can we make ?
ive got a lot more money than tainer .
we can talk , sure , bats voice was illuminated in mannys mind .
you can feel him , you know where he is .
it was the voice of wendell guterraz .
come on out , manny said .
i dont want to get stuck with no arrow , bat laughed .
all of mannys senses zeroed in on bat .
the darkness , the rocks , the trees , anything that stands between the two men , dissolves .
manny looked up , raising the bow with an arrow notched , concentrating intensely , the flight path of the arrow outlined in his mind as he stood .
throw out the bow !
bat commanded .
this declaration from bat gave manny the range and he fired the arrow straight into the air .
manny quickly notched another arrow , and let it fly , then a third arrow went , arching high into the night sky .
looking up , manny projected his thoughts to the first arrow as it reached the top of its arch and tipped over , gaining speed , plummeting down .
going down .
manny knew he had connection with the arrow , he could feel it , as the arrow accelerated , closing in on the unsuspecting bat .
bang , manny whispered as he heard a plunk and a loud hiccup .
moments later , he heard a clank , as an arrow hit a rock , then shortly , followed by another plunk .
manny waited , but he couldnt hear anything but the night sounds .
finally , the pain in his side made him restless and he couldnt wait any longer .
he started slowly , sneaking around the outcrop of rock , another arrow notched in the bow .
he got to the end of the rocks , stopped and listened .
there was still nothing but the natural sounds .
he moved slightly away from the rocks and looked intently to where he knew bat was located last , but there is nothing out of the ordinary .
as he focused his eyes , he spotted something .
it looked like the feather end of an arrow sticking straight up , just behind one of the boulders .
manny moved cautiously , keeping the unmoving arrow in sight , the bow aimed out in front of him .
he snuck up to the other side of the rock , steadied himself on the surface , raised up and peered over slowly , following the shaft of the arrow down with his eyes .
the arrow seemed to be lodged in something hairy .
manny stood up , suddenly realizing what he was looking at .
bat , the arrow sticking out of the top of his head , was wedged between two rocks , caught under his arm pits .
manny walked up to bat , noticing another arrow protruding from his back and bats ak47 assault rifle laying in the dirt .
mannys attention was redirected to the road by a car coming up it .
he could see the lights through the trees .
bat !
tainer yelled from close to the road .
come on , quit screwing around and shoot the bastard , someones coming .
manny quickly turned , pulled the bow back and waited .
hey bat !
tainer yelled again .
manny fired at the voice , sending the arrow arching up at a steep angle .
lets get this over , tainer was shouting , as manny waited , counting out the seconds to when he judged the should arrive .
now , manny whispered again , as there was the sound of an arrow slicing down through foliage .
then there was a shout in the night .
god dammit !
from tainer .
manny fired another arrow and started toward tainers voice .
manny notched another arrow , as the car on the road got closer .
what the hell ?
tainer yelled again .
manny was almost to the bottom of the slope when heard this .
he pulled the bow back and fired another arrow , this time at a shallow angle , listening to the arrow slicing through the underbrush .
he could hear tainer scrambling through the thick underbrush as he reached the bottom of the slope .
manny shot another arrow and a yelp came from tainer .
manny started up the slope toward the road , firing arrows at the sounds tainer was making in his panicked flight .
jesus christ anderson , youre nuts !
tainer screamed .
leave me alone !
manny loosed another arrow , shooting high , the arrow thwacking into a tree , somewhere above tainers head .
tainer panicked , screaming incoherently , iiyyyeeee , help me , help me please !
this fucker is nuts !
tainer screamed , crashing through the brush , trying desperately to break free , to get to the road , to get to the car lights above .
manny heard the car come up fast , the tires squealing on the blacktop , then the car stopping hard into the gravel shoulder .
doors opened , and he could hear tainer .
oh , thank god , thank you , thank you .
theres a crazy man down there .
hes trying to kill me with a bow .
manny stopped , not sure what to do , wondering how much trouble he had gotten himself in now .
manny anderson !
a deep strong voice called from the road .
this is the sheriff , put down your manny could hear the strong voice asking a question .
what , hes after you with what ?
the deep voice sounded mystified .
really , thats a nasty looking gun you have there , sir .
manny could hear the man with the strong voice clearly , and youre running from a guy with a bow ?
manny could hear some more unrecognizable blathering .
then the strong voice .
yes , dont worry , sir , we wont let him shoot at you anymore .
manny anderson , the deep voice commanded , drop your bow and arrows , and come on up here , now !
manny could detect a chuckle .
manny followed the game trail back up to the road , a couple of lights spotted him as he made his way .
he had put the bow down , and was using both hands to part the thick vegetation .
he stepped onto the road , lights blaring in his eyes .
how do you know my name ?
i followed your sorry ass all the way from minnesota , you friggin idiot , detective swenson announced .
oh , shit , not you , manny said with disgust .
not happy to see me ?
swenson said , lowering his light out of mannys eyes .
am i interfering with something ?
swenson continued , walking up to manny .
youve got yourself in some deep shit now , turn around .
swenson had handcuffs .
now , lets not be hasty , the deep voice said .
a huge , black , sheriff walked up .
am i to understand that this gentleman , the sheriff pointed at manny , was being pursued by those two other gentleman , and seems to have won the game ?
its my case , ill handle it dillard , swenson said condescendingly .
this is my jurisdiction shorty , and i dont particularly care for you , sheriff dillard said to swenson .
now just a min swenson tried to object , but dillard cut him off .
sir , sheriff dillard said to manny , would you please come with me .
manny walked up to the sheriffs car , where mark tainer was in the back seat , leaning forward , handcuffed , a bloody rag wrapped around his lower arm .
manny leaned into the window .
you fucker tainer , i actually wanted to kill you , and then i remembered the spiel you gave me .
how youre the one that deserves to benefit from timtown .
how i was such an asshole and didnt deserve to live because i didnt listen to billys dream .
you accused me of being responsible for his death .
thats right manny , i still think im correct , tainer said .
you are , thats why youre such a fucker , manny said , straightening up .
by the way , i know this great lawyer , and like a detective once told me , you didnt kill anybody , so it shouldnt go too bad for you .
chapter 39 manny was just starting to doze off in the cell hed been put in when a deputy walked up to the bars and informed him he had a phone call .
who is it ?
manny asked , not even raising his head from the plain , hard , skinny pillow , with no pillow case .
he says hes your attorney , a carl something .
tell him to call back in the morning , manny said , his head still on the pillow .
ah , id appreciate if you would take his this call , the deputy said nervously .
arent you afraid im going to try to escape , or something ?
dont talk like that , please .
didnt they tell you how deranged i am ?
sir , i was instructed to get you what you need , and no one thinks youre dangerous , not here anyway .
manny got up with a sigh , as the deputy opened the cell door .
the deputy directed manny down to an office , pointed the way in , and then shut the door behind manny .
hey , carl , guess where i am ?
manny said into the phone .
i heard , swenson called me .
im on my way .
theyre waking up a judge to set bail , and well have you out in a couple of hours .
oh , chill out , andrews .
ive had a long day , and the bunk in here isnt too bad .
i plan on sleeping quite a bit , so dont bother me until tomorrow .
but , manny , youre in jail .
big deal , ive had it worse today , believe me .
you are one crazy bugger , thats for sure .
good night carl , manny said , hanging up the phone .
around noon the next day , carl and jason mcdermott were in sheriff dillards office when they brought manny in .
wheres swenson ?
manny asked .
hes not welcome here , sheriff dillard remarked , handing manny a newspaper , the headlines showing .
minnesota man in custody .
arrested after shoot out near lake black shear .
the following article read , sheriff dillard says the minnesota gentleman , a manny anderson of red pine , was being pursued by two other men from new york that were trying to kill him .
mr. anderson , armed with only a compound bow , was able to kill one of his pursuers and disable the other .
it is unconfirmed , but according to the sheriffs office in red pine , the two new york men were vietnam era marine snipers .
story page 1b .
how did swenson get down here ?
manny asked carl .
it seems the new york police were very interested in mark tainers associate , the one you proinged with the arrows .
they had been following him , a one bat obrien , for six months .
they though he might be working for tainer , and swenson was let in on it when you made your mad dash .
the police had a gps in tainers car , and tainer and bat had a tail on you the whole time , but it got a little hectic with you and that silly car stan gave you .
oh , man , i do love that car .
manny smiled .
so whats the official line , what happens to me ?
the official report will read that you acted in self defense , dillard said .
as far as were concerned , youre free to go , but , if you ever go through here again , and i catch you driving like that , again , i will throw the book at you .
manny requested to see tainer before he left .
come to gloat , tainer said , sitting on his bunk in the cell .
manny was standing outside the bars , looking in .
no , came to talk , manny said .
i tried to kill you , tainer said matter of factually .
it didnt work .
sounds like gloating to me .
probably , but i still want to talk .
im still interested in billy and you .
ah , what makes me tick ?
no , why you tick that way .
fair enough .
i hate you manny anderson .
i hate you for becoming billys advocate , way too late , i might add .
i could say better late than never , but i think i understand .
try me , tainer said .
billy needed me , a long , long time ago , and i wasnt there , manny said , sadness in his voice .
anderson , you do amaze me , but i still want you dead .
it aint gon na happen , not by your hand anyway , manny snickered .
youre gloating again , tainer growled .
i get to go home , manny said , pointing at tainer , and you are headed to deep shit , but i still want to talk .
tainer sat thinking for a moment , then spoke .
what do you want ?
i got bills story from you , what about yours ?
you writing a book anderson ?
maybe !
and you want what from me ?
the truth .
you missed knowing billy the marine and now you think you can figure me out , tainer laughed .
maybe .
manny anderson , you want to know why im the way i am ?
yes , manny said without hesitation .
tainer sat thinking again , finally taking a deep breath .
i was disfigured by war , he said and stopped .
thats a start , manny commented .
i never told you about the dogs , tainer said , a faraway look on his face .
manny sat waiting .
those beautiful dogs , tainer said quietly .
they were dedicated to us .
they were smart enough to realize the danger and how extreme the situation could become .
they adored their handlers and would give it all .
manny could tell tainer was getting angry .
when the handlers rotated back to the world , the dogs were not allowed to leave vietnam and were given to the south vietnamese army who had them for lunch !
tainer spat it out venomously .
of all the jack ass stupidity involved in that fiasco , to me that was the defining action .
how some moron in the rear could justify leaving our soldiers behind , and thats what they were , soldiers .
they were part of the team , and gave their all , tainer exclaimed .
manny saw a look of hatred on marks face .
ive never talked about this manny , not to anyone before .
ive never talked about it until now .
tainer twisted his head around , trying to loosen his tense neck .
tainer sat thinking , then said softly .
a man that goes to war , never comes back the same .
how could he ?
manny said .
we found five marines one time , tainer said in the same soft voice .
i guess a patrol got lost and was overwhelmed .
they were badly decomposed , stinking , bones showing through the rot in places , but we could tell that they had been castrated and their genitals were in their mouths .
i only hoped that this had been done after they were dead , but i doubt it .
the enemy had a pretense for extreme cruelty .
as bad as it got , we tried to refrain from becoming his equal .
in my mind , it was what separated us from the other side .
we were all in that filthy , stinking environment , but we were better , we still had a limit to what we were capable of .
and the kids , tainer added .
i have to say that regardless of how bad the situation , our troops still had a heart for the children .
men , or rather boys that had been confronted with the most intense combat , still remembered that kids are kids , and tried to refrain from any retribution toward them .
the other side , their own people , were vicious and absolute about their goals , and never hesitated to abuse anyone that didnt go along with their policies .
what do you think made the difference ?
manny asked .
i think its that freedom of expression that we take for granted .
in a society that is totalitarian , orders are orders , and there is no pretense to question anything .
they spend their whole life taking orders , and that is that .
individual rights and thoughts are not part of the equation .
yeah , i learned all about possibly losing my rights out there in the woods with you and bat after my ass .
so what got your balls in a twist ?
i was pissed because you were fucking with my great life .
if you had nothing to miss , how do you think you would have responded ?
i dont know , ive never been in that situation .
did you think about billy ?
yes , i never thought about his experiences having anything to offer to me , until i needed courage , manny said , turning to leave .
chapter 40 i dont get you manny , cassey said , sitting in the passengers side of the vet .
they had decided to take a drive down the road where cassey had been assaulted .
to get their life back , cassey had said .
after all the trouble that guy caused , you dont hold a grudge .
hes nothing but a wicked killer in my book , cassey stated , looking out her window , watching the trees go by .
hes a bad guy , no doubt , manny agreed , and he was motivated by greed , yes , but not totally .
manny looked at cassey .
part of him tried to kill out of comradely for billy .
we became the enemy because we were about to reap the benefits of that war .
timtown is a story of a character that holds all the cards and chooses not to use them .
tainer and billy lived that for a time in that war .
they had the choice of life and death and used it responsibly , wisely .
responsibly ?
cassey questioned , turning to look at manny .
how can you say that ?
they were out hunting people .
no , they were doing a job .
tainer told me how billy was very careful to make sure they evaluated their targets , manny explained .
tainer was right , we only recognized timtown for its market value , not for what it tried to say .
cassey nodded her head in acknowledgment .
im very proud of you manny , she said leaning over .
weve been together a long time and that can be the death knoll for many marriages .
people get bored with each other really easy , but this has put a spark back in my heart for you , she said , laying her head on his shoulder .
i think ill keep you for a bit longer .
im still a little pissed , though , about how careless you where , but i can forgive you because it wasnt what it seemed .
imagine , the nerve of that tainer .
what put you on to him ?
it wasnt too hard to figure out after i had read timtown , and the shit started happening , manny said .
i thought , damn , i sure wish i could have written something as great as this .
you said the same thing .
then when tainer dispelled the book , i was thinking , cassey loved it , why didnt mark tainer ?
thats what got me thinking .
then i remembered something he had said to me earlier , when i first met him .
he was very frustrated that he had never written a book .
from then on , i kind of knew what was happening , i just had to prove it , and someone was feeding that dip shit swenson , it had to be either you or tainer .
you were suspicious of me ?
cassey asked , lifting her head and looking at manny .
no , not really because you had nothing to gain .
besides , i know you well enough .
if you wanted to get rid of me , you would have just done it , not pulled some dastardly deed .
it must have seemed that way , that i didnt want you anymore , at least for a while ?
you thought i did something bad .
if i had really done it , i wouldnt have blamed you .
how pragmatic .
cassey , i started out wondering how the hell billy got overlooked , then how he must have felt .
all of a sudden i was the one on the outside looking in , being accused and not being guilty .
when you end up standing in those shoes , the only thing that matters is getting the true story out , for me anyway .
i had a lot to lose , and i had to clear myself .
you know , the truth is billy wasnt all that impressed with us , cassey , otherwise he would have stuck around , tried to make us see the light .
the saga of billy really reads , he went his own way .
we really had nothing to do with it .
how could we , we were just kids and he was a man ?
you really stuck your neck out .
it was incredibly brave , cassey said , putting her head back on mannys shoulder .
yeah , im proud of me too .
manny responded , resting his chin on her head .
i can see why you dont want to get rid of me .
chapter 41 the old cemetery didnt seem so glum this time , as manny and cassey stood in front of billy palmers grave .
the sun was setting in the west on a warm summer evening , birds were singing , and the trees were full of leaves .
a little nicer than the last time we were here , manny commented .
it doesnt make me any happier , cassey said .
no , me neither , but weve sort of come full circle .
billy is still dead , cassey said , sadly .
the only difference is the weather is nicer , and the new tombstone is better .
but , billy palmer is going to the movies , manny stated .
he doesnt get to appreciate it though .
i did the best i could .
dont go trying to take all the credit for this manny , cassey said , punching manny in the shoulder .
i could have been difficult about it , but i cared about billy too , and let you run with it .
people were trying to convince me you had something going on the side , and thats why you tried to have me killed .
its no fun hearing that , and having to stay quiet , but i did .
yes , you did , my dear , so lets go out and be seen together , really loving it up , really make a spectacle of ourselves .
by the way , i got a two million dollar lawsuit from that peckerhead crane .
for what ?
he claims i ruined his credibility .
really , whatre you going to do about it ?
i sent him a check for a dollar and a little note .
i told him , when hes gone therell just be some oxygen missing , and his only contribution to society was the fertilizer that came out of his ass .
manny snickered as he looked at the stone he had erected for billy .
here rests william billy perry palmer born , november 19 , 1947 died , november 7 , 1998 a representative of the 58,626 men and women that gave their lives in a faraway place to preserve our freedoms honey , cassey laughed .
you do have a way with words .
words .
hell , manny laughed , the checks no good !
epilogue three positive things came out of the mess that was called vietnam one the communists lost their ability to finance their attempts at global domination , two never again would america expend any soldiers without them knowing why , and three never let politicians run a war .
biography i was born in winnipeg , canada on 11 29 47 .
my father was a golf course superintendent there , and when i was seven , we moved to fargo n.d. where my father took over the duties at the fargo country club .
i played a lot of golf and had a great time living at the course .
i can still hit the crap out of the ball , but cant score .
so what else is new ?
i graduated from high school in fargo and then joined the marines .
i was a scout sniper in vietnam and saw considerable action and can say , combat is a great teacher , provided it doesnt leave one scarred and unable to go on .
i went into the golf business , first as a superintendent designer , then as a builder .
i also taught the ever elusive golf swing and do understand it .
i began writing in the business format , doing instruction manuals and design work for manta cars , and then shifted to entertainment news paper , magazines , then novels , and finally screen plays .
i wrote a golf book , the balance swing , and wrote , produced , directed , edited and starred in a matching video .
ive also written three additional novels timtown , the searching soul , and billy palmer .
all four novels have screen plays .
i am presently working on a 1960s rock and roll musical with fast cars and original songs as the theme .
while working the designing and constructing businesses , i stood my ground many years ago and proclaimed my competition was irresponsible and money grubbing .
i was vindicated later when an associate , who defined my complaints as counter productive , came to me and said , ronski , you were right , werent you ?
i saved close to ten thousand beautiful , jungle trees on a golf course project , on guam .
ive always been green because when i lived outside of fargo , i noticed the trees starting to bud a day early in town one spring .
i asked my father and he said , obviously it is warmer in town , this was 1957 , when i was eight , and already i understood global warming .
ive have had all the toys , but only for the experience of playing with them , never for just having them .
i havent owned a car in seven years and my bike is my best friend .
i currently live in palm desert , ca .
because id rather be hot than cold .
swes mclaughlin city series book 1 written by b.a .
savage tomb by b.a .
savage copyright 2005 by b.a .
savage smashwords edition isbn 978 1 1054 8021 8 this book is a work of fiction .
names , characters , places , and incidents are either the product of the writers imagination or are used fictitiously .
any resemblance to actual events or locales or person , living or dead , is entirely coincidental .
an original publication of savage world entertainment .
all rights reserved , including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever , except for use of quotes for review purposes .
for information please contact bashansavage yahoo.com printed in the u.s.a. savage world entertainment has other great novels , check them out !
sensational american wrestling fictional wrestling , just like it is on t.v .
with off the wall commercials and characters !
available now !
shadow a million dollar female assassin hell bent on revenge available now !
archan the cat burglar with the power to talk to animals coming soon !
chapter one the evening sun basks over the conference room sized dinner table .
the light reflecting off the polished extravagant silverware emanates an eerie glow onto the remains of a beautifully set dinner .
the leftover portions of a roasted hog , stacks of fried chicken , platters of thickly sliced steak , and a pan of baked salmon makes up the center .
surrounding it are various partially or fully eaten side dishes of candied yams , mashed potatoes , corn on the cob , pan fried noodles , potato salad , and macaroni salad to name a few .
seated at the table are ten individuals all as different as night is to day .
standing at the master end is a man in black slacks , black muscle shirt , and with a black cloth covering from under his nose to the neckline of his shirt .
his eyes are pure black with no pupils but they do appear to have a reflection of the candle on the table .
another man walks in wearing a monk style robe .
black , bald , and seemingly in his 30 's , he takes a place next to the man already standing at the master end .
welcome , how was dinner ? ''
each individual guest provides some sort of a response .
good , would anyone like dessert ? ''
a few shake their heads either in agreement or disagreement , while others voice their personal choice .
let 's get to the damn point ! ''
says one of the guests , as he slams both of his fists on the table .
silence overtakes the room .
the host says sure mr .
explode .
you 're right .
enough of the small talk , everyone knows everyone by now , i 'm sure . ''
a man who is overly handsome and dressed in some royalty style get up says , no , not everyone knows everyone .
who 's the mute ?
we have been here almost six hours and she has n't spoken a word ... ... yeah , and what 's up with the face mask and completely hidden identity bit ?
body looks good , but i want see the face too continued the identical twin of the handsome man , also wearing a matching outfit .
well zarr and razz , too bad you ca n't use your special ability to read each other 's thoughts on her instead or you might already know the answers to your questions , replied the host .
humph . ''
zarr and razz sigh .
she , ladies and gentlemen , is shadow she is on hire from the katsuya corporation .
she ... '' added the host until he was interrupted .
katsuya corporation ? ''
interrupted a short , stout and rugged looking man with a face full of hair , and sporting lumberjack gear .
another man wearing tan khaki 's , hawaiian shirt , and mirror like sunglasses answers , yeah rugged , it 's a camera company , why do we need anyone from a capitalist camera corporation ?
asks rugged with rage in his voice .
you idiot !
you need to get out more .
it 's a front for the japanese mafia , snapped the man in the sunglasses .
slamming the palms of his hands on the table , the host takes back control of the situation , enough ! ''
this gets everyones attention focused back on him .
back to the issue at hand , the reason you have been gathered here .
each of you has been asked to join this venture because each of you are world renowned treasure and relic hunters , each with their own unique talents or abilities which will help ensure the success of this mission . ''
he surveys the room , each of you will be paid one million dollars , half will be paid tonight and the other half will be paid upon completion of the mission .
you will also be able to keep all the spoils of the trip that you may happen to pick up .
all i ask in return is one item .
that item is the stone of sunfire . ''
a few members seem to have heard of it , but most seem to have no clue as to what it is .
it seems that some of you have never heard of it .
well , i 'm not surprised .
its rumored to have only been seen by a handful of people , and the place it was last seen is considered a myth .
only a few believe it exists , atlantis .
since proving atlantis exists , which has been next to impossible to prove , the stone of sunfire is sort of a myth of myths . ''
in a jokeful manner , the man in the sunglasses says , so you want us to find atlantis ?
good luck .
no , mr. bebida blood .
fortunately an even less known myth , told among several tribes in south america tells a tale that during the brief time of turmoil rumored to occurred before atlantis sunk , a very skillful thief sent by king foymama stole this item and returned it to him , '' says the host .
tripwire , a skilled adventurer and expert on ancient traps and devices asks , king foymama ?
the king of greed ? ''
what 's so special about this king ? ''
asks gladiator , a very muscular , all american male wearing blue jeans and a usa pride '' t shirt .
glad you asked , '' continues the host , foymama let his wife , the queen , run the kingdom while he sent spies and thieves to steal valuable treasures and artifacts from other kingdoms .
he also led several expeditions himself .
foymama 's main interest was in mystical objects , items rumored to have some kind of magical forces within .
he used some of these itemss power to grow richer and more powerful .
then news came from one of his spies that several powerful armies were joining together to steal back their treasures and plunder much more .
being driven by greed and not wanting to lose his priceless artifacts , which was the largest collection the world had ever seen , king foymama used the horn of calling to summon the demon poss chandela '' and begged to be able to keep his treasures forever inside the tomb he built specifically to spend his afterlife with his immense treasure .
the next day when the attacking army arrived there was no sign of the tomb , it had vanished . ''
then how the hell are we supposed to find it ? ''
asks explode in his typical angry way .
the same tribe i heard the tale from is the cristah tribe , who are the actual descendants of the foymama tribe .
they carry with them the ranakan , the stone of awareness , which can be used to reveal the tomb .
that 's where you , natural hack , come in .
your tracking skills with your laptop are legendary .
i will supply you with all the data on the tribe including their last location . ''
natural hack nods in agreement and adds , just call me hack . ''
the host asks , rugged , i do believe you are familiar with the kung !
tribal language and their use of clicking sounds to communicate , correct ? ''
you are correct . ''
i know i am .
they use a very similar style .
it should be no problem to figure out , i did . ''
zarr asks , so how much is this sunshine or firestone thing worth anyways ? ''
razz adds , i was thinking the same thing . ''
zarr replies , i know , that 's why i asked . ''
they both smile at each other .
it is priceless .
but so are many of the treasures in foymamas tomb .
to guarantee that someone does bring it back to me or that the mission was a failure because of misinformation , i 've planted a mole .
one of you has been a business associate of mine for quite some time and is being paid 10 million dollars to be my eyes and ears .
so if one of you does find the item and tries to run , i will kill you , which is of course after ive killed several family members .
i found you once and i will find you again . ''
during this whole spiel , the host made eye contact with all at the table and his facial expression and tone of speech did n't change one bit .
for the second time in minutes , silence controls the room .
everyone seems to be looking at each other with accusing eyes .
the only ones not looking around are gladiator , who had been refilling his plate at a regular pace during the whole briefing , and xiona chang , who has been silent since dinner was placed on the table .
gladiator notices several eyes on him .
noticeably uncomfortable , he says with a mouthful of steak , what ?
i 'm not a mole .
i 've never seen this man before in my life . ''
then all eyes turn toward xiona , who in her red traditional chinese evening dress was already stunning to the eyes .
now she finds eyes looking at her quite differently .
she looks up at everyone , yet says nothing .
the host interrupts this awkward moment , enough worrying about that .
each one of you needs your rest .
sleep well .
i must be leaving now .
if you need anything , my servants will be glad to assist you . ''
the host walks off , followed by his apparent bodyguard .
down the hallway and out of earshot , the host stops and says to his companion , kain , you 're probably wondering why do n't i go , instead of sending them '' ?
after all i 'm more qualified and skilled than all of them put together . ''
kain says nothing , with the flames still visibly burning in his eyes .
simply , i have other plans instead of being stuck in there for 200 300 years if the mission fails , and who knows , it might be even longer than that before anyone enters the tomb again . ''
kain still stands silently .
what 's that you say , kain ?
the mole ?
who is it ?
i planted no mole , i planted something much better , distrust .
if the stone is there and i believe it is , then if even only two survive , it 's guaranteed to be returned because of the fear of the mole .
if more than two survive , i will be truly surprised , and as you know i have n't been surprised in years .
tomorrow will be very entertaining for you . ''
chapter two mr .
blood walks into the same conference room as the night before to find that he 's the last one to come to the breakfast table .
standing at the master end is kain , but noticeably missing is the host .
so what 'd i miss ? ''
asks bebida .
nothing much , gladiator has already devoured seven pancakes , six sausages , about ten eggs ... um did i miss anything ? ''
asks razz .
yeah , four glasses of oj and five glasses of milk , '' adds zarr .
do n't forget the four biscuits , '' laughs gladiator with his mouth full .
so nothing much then ? ''
asks bebida .
nope , not really but we now know who the mole is , '' says tripwire .
hack , who has been dealing with these acquisitions all morning , frustrated , yells , i 'm not the damn mole ! ''
sure youre not ! ''
then why the fuck did the host put you in charge ?
charges explode .
i 'm not in charge !
he came in last night to give me the data on the tribe and left me instructions to share with everyone , since he could n't be here today . ''
so what was he wearing ? ''
asks rugged .
fuck you ! ''
hack yells across the table .
laughter echoes around the room , lifting some of the tension .
anyways , let 's hear those instructions , '' says bebida .
good , we were waiting for you to come down .
i 've tracked down where the tribe is located using my connection to a global positioning satellite , do n't ask how .
anyways , we are to leave at 1200 hours by helicopter , which will drop us off 10 miles away from the tribe 's present location . ''
10 miles ?
why so far away ? ''
asks bebida .
because this tribe has a leadership structure that is quite unique and no central home .
all in this tribe are equal , with the exception of the one responsible for the stone .
he serves as chief , then after roughly one week , a different person receives the stone and leader role .
and with no central home , there 's no telling who has it all any given time , '' explained hack .
so ? ''
questions bebida .
xiona answers , these tribe members do n't sleep in close quarters , with only about twenty members of this tribe , they have been found sleeping separately almost one mile away from the nearest member . ''
everyone looks at xiona , some shocked that she knew that , others surprised she talked .
bringing the attention of everyone back to himself , bebida asks , so , we are performing a dragnet to make sure none escape ? ''
exactly .
cause if the one with the stone escapes , it might take days or even weeks to find him .
and now we have on our side the element of surprise . ''
answers hack .
rugged asks rudely , so where 's the host at , hack ?
i do n't know .
why do n't you ask kain ? ''
retaliates hack .
the massive monstrosity does n't move .
looking at kain , rugged replied , um ... i 'll pass . ''
explode stands up swiftly , want me to ask him ? ! ''
zarr , still seated , reaches out toward explode , i would think twice about that , big fellow .
something seems very odd about that one there . ''
razz extends his arm also and adds , yes , i agree .
have n't you noticed the fire in his eyes is still there from last night , yet there is no flame that it could be reflecting ? ''
zarr says , i was just thinking the same thing . ''
razz replies , i know you were . ''
they both look at each other and smile .
explode now notices the flame but still says , so , i 'm not scared of no punks with trippy contacts ! ''
xiona stands up , it 's not about being scared it 's about being smart .
something i can tell most at this table lack .
as she gets up from the table and starts to exit the room , explode yells , shut up , mole ! ''
hack asks calmly , can we all get back on track please ?
the helicopter will be ready for departure soon . ''
the remaining guests look at explode .
explode is wondering why everyone is looking at him , what ? ''
no one says anything .
finally explode sits back down , while kain remains the same .
do n't worry about xiona 's part .
i 'll brief her on the copter .
okay here 's the plan ... '' hack continues .
finally , every member seems focused , including gladiator , who has finally stopped eating .
chapter three now ! ''
yells hack , from the cover of some bushes .
a split second later an explosive device lands in the center of what resembles a central activity area of the tribe .
a minor explosion is followed by plenty of smoke and villagers trying to flee .
bingo ! ''
yells tripwire , as four tribe people are slung up into the air and trapped in a net .
two other villagers are double arm clotheslined and dropped by gladiator as they try to run into the bushes .
oh yeah !
man , i really miss wrestling . ''
the smoke is clearing .
hack asks , is that every one of them ? ''
razz , as he holds a villager , answers , yeah . ''
i believe so , adds zarr , who also is holding one .
shadow walks out of the bushes into the clearing with a villager already bound .
yeah , that 's all of them , counting the six we caught on the outskirts , '' says hack , as xiona comes out of the brush with those six shackled together .
so how we are supposed to know which one has the stone ? ''
asks rugged .
i do n't know are n't you the language specialist ? ''
replies hack .
um ... oh yeah , '' rugged turns toward the closest villager and asks in the tribe 's native tongue , which he has been learning from the previous six hostages .
the villager replies back with similar clicking sounds .
what 'd he say ? ''
asks hack .
just like the other villagers , he says he does n't know what i 'm talking about . ''
bebida adds , it sounds like a damn old broken typewriter , you sure he understood you , old man ? ''
i 'm pretty sure he did , it 's not a difficult language to understand , but most of you americans are tone deaf from years of the boob tube and loud rock music , '' fires back rugged .
hey , i 'm not an american and i have no clue what either of you two said , '' states tripwire .
visibly frustrated , hack says does it really fucking matter who else understands what ?
just fucking ask him again , okay ?
yeah , whatever .
damn capitalist pigs , '' says rugged .
he then turns around and repeats his previous question to the villager .
the villager gives what sounds like the same answer .
well ? ''
asks hack .
he still says he does n't know what we are talking about . ''
explode pulls out his gun from his leg strap , aims and shoots , i bet he understands this ! ''
the villager that shadow was holding drops to the ground dead with a hole in his chest .
xiona yells , what the hell are you doing ? ''
explode yells , shut the fuck up , bitch ! ''
he turns his gun toward her but before he could make the full swinging motion , a ninja star knocks the gun out of his hand and another star sticks into the leg holster where his gun was , only inches away from his family jewels .
if you ever aim a weapon at me or speak to me in that tone again , your gun wo n't be the only thing falling to the ground , '' threatened xiona , now holding in front of her a sword , gripped with both hands .
explode is pissed , but realizes he 's in no position to argue .
he removes the star from his leg and throws it to the ground .
some of the villagers are now crying and struggling to no avail to be close to their fallen fellow tribe member .
maybe now , we 'll get some damn answers , '' says explode .
yeah , you 're probably right , '' said bebida , as he dipped his fingers in the fresh wound of the dead villager .
he sucks the blood off his fingers , while standing in the face of another villager .
bebida smiles exposing some of his fanged teeth , just maybe , you 're right . ''
gladiator is standing nearby with the two he captured , who are now tied to a tree .
awe , you 're fucking sick , man ! ''
he then turns and vomits in nearby bushes .
hmmm , '' bebida smiles as he looks at the dead body , a fresh new taste . ''
one of the villagers , a male , starts yelling something in his native tongue .
rugged walks over to him and starts conversing .
well ? ''
asks hack .
well it looks like explode 's tactics worked .
this boy has the stone , '' replies rugged .
explode grins , see , i fucking told you . ''
hack approaches the villager who appears to be in his late teens early twenties .
ask him where the tomb is located . ''
rugged and the villager exchange words , he said he will show you if you spare his people . ''
brave for his age .
admirable .
okay , tell him no problem , consider it done , '' answers hack to the dismay of explode who mumbles something and walks off into the bush .
hack continues , but assure him that if this is a trick , that we will return and slaughter every last one of them while he is forced to watch . ''
rugged relays the message , the villager replies .
rugged confirms to hack , understood . ''
good , '' hack orders everyone to release the villagers and head back to camp .
everyone does as told .
chapter four back at camp , all the members of the expedition are present , including their new captive .
gladiator is over in a clearing doing push ups .
explode is sitting on a rock cleaning his gun .
rugged is catching a nap in the shade of a tree .
zarr , razz and tripwire are sitting by a fire laughing about something .
bebida is leaning back against a tree , enjoying its shade and a drink from his canteen .
hack walks past everyone toward xiona , who is staring out into an open field .
he passes the tree the villager is tied to .
shadow is perched above on a branch of the same tree .
she stares down at hack .
he doesnt notice .
xiona chang , right ?
hack attempts to make small talk as he sits down next to her .
what is it that you want ?
i just felt like talking , thats all .
no you dont .
all of you are so readable .
you want information .
hack feels uncomfortable and embarrassed that she saw right through him .
hes never been too good at talking to women .
ok , you got me .
as you can tell , im an information junkie .
thats why i always have my laptop .
your point ?
well my point is .
i dont understand why i was told to lead this part of the expedition .
i thought you werent told to lead .
i lied .
hack answered , smiling like a child who just got caught with their hand in the cookie jar .
xiona finally breaks her usual serious demeanor and serene look with a slight smile .
ok , i dont have an answer to that question but what else would you like to know ?
hack says , ok. well first , several members of this group dont seem to exist anywhere but here .
theres nothing , nada , zilch on them .
ive looked high and low and everywhere in between .
and i have so many sources that i could tell you if elvis is alive and if so , what hes wearing right now .
wan na know ?
dont care .
good , neither do i. hack smiles xiona smiles a real full smile .
who do you want to know about ?
shadow .
what about her ?
anything .
theres nothing .
well , theres not much known about her .
just rumors .
rumors like ?
rumors such as that she is a genetically enhanced assassin working for the katsuya corporation .
the japanese mafia ?
oops , i mean camera company .
hack laughs , as almost anyone whos into information like him knows that the camera company is a front for the mob .
well everyone but the police , it seems .
yes .
rumor is she was a drug addicted whore .
she was taken off life support and her family assumed she was dead .
well at least , that is one of the rumors .
anyway , the japanese public is terrified of her existence , since it is said that no one who has seen her has lived to tell about it .
wow , what a story .
well im not scared .
ok , what about sick boy over there .
mr. bebida blood , i know the name means something with blood , im thinking drinking right ?
anyways , whats his story ?
hes a sad story actually .
he was a soldier who was accidentally left behind during an unauthorized mission during the gulfcusta war .
not able to go back for him without admitting they were there in the first place , he was left for dead .
somehow the information got out to the media and back to his father , a high ranking official who ordered a rescue mission , but it was nearly a month later .
hack interrupts her , hey i remember that , operation bring him home the war was over but the gulfcustans had lost communication with that camp about the same time he was dropped there .
the gulfcustans blamed it on the u.s .
correct .
when the u.s. finally arrived at the camp , it was abandoned right ?
something about the water supply ran out and some of the soldiers probably died in the desert and that others probably just went home but there was no sign of the soldier .
everyone guessed he died in the desert .
that is what the media was told .
but rumor is that all 22 gulfcusta officers stationed there were found dead , most of the bodies drained of their blood .
and there was evidence that someone had lived there in a cell .
when the rescue party arrived they discovered fresh tire tracks and an unidentified body .
this is how they believed the soldier disappeared .
hack and xiona both look over at bebida , who has just finished drinking from his canteen .
hes wiping away a red color liquid from the corner of his lips .
wow , some weird fucks we have out here with us .
hack exclaims .
agreed .
so how did you know that i would be able to answer your questions ?
thats why they call me the natural hack .
ive got natural instincts .
plus you seemed very confident of yourself .
i am .
xiona said .
she looks forward into the direction she was when he first approached .
trying to gain back her attention , hack adds , and very talented too , i might add .
i never have seen anyone throw two stars at the same time at two separate targets with such accuracy .
without turning toward him and barely acknowledging him , xiona says , and you still havent .
i only threw one .
confused and dumbfounded , if you only threw one .
who threw the other ?
then hack looks around for the only other member of the group who seemingly would even possess throwing stars .
he finds shadow in the tree not far away .
he realizes that she has never taken her eyes off him from when he first approached xiona .
whoa !
said hack , who was startled to see her staring at him , i see explode has managed to make more than one person angry with that stunt .
shadow , still perched on the branch , looks away .
apparently .
answered xiona in a tone that makes it obvious that the charm of the moment is gone .
she adds , now if you dont mind , i would like to go back to sleep .
again confused , hack asks , back to sleep ?
when i approached you , your eyes were open .
xiona confirms , yes , i know .
hack shakes his head as he gets up and heads back to join the group by the fire .
chapter five the airborne helicopter , at full capacity , flies high above the jungle .
kain is at the helm .
hack , who is sitting next to xiona , leans over and asks her , can i please ask you one more question ?
xiona doesnt look at him but agrees to answer .
ok , thanks .
any info on the twins ?
asks hack .
what do you know ?
that they were one of romanias most famous circus attractions until they were kicked out , but for what i dont know .
and thats all i know about them .
they were sold to the romanias circus as toddlers .
rumor is their unique ability scared the hell out of their parents , but made them world famous .
they were kicked out of the circus after it was found out that they had been stealing items from the royalties where they would sometimes perform .
oh i see .
rugged interrupted their conversation .
so what are we gon na call the captive ?
hack answers .
whatever his name is .
what else would we call him ?
but i dont think any of you city folk could pronounce his name without breaking your tongues .
gladiator says , we can call him wednesday .
just like that little villager dude on that one old tv show .
i think his name was tuesday , wednesday was on that other show and that was a girl .
adds tripwire .
fine , whatever .
then lets just call him friday .
that will not work either .
that was the name of some cop on some detective show .
well why dont you just ask shadow or kain ?
razz asked .
zarr added , im sure theyre full of ideas .
razz and zarr both look at each other , then both smile and laugh .
shadow and kain have not spoken one word , since theyve first been introduced , respectively .
fuck kain , explode yells .
kain remains unaffected by the comment that echoed throughout the copter .
shadow sitting up front in the co pilot seat doesnt look back either .
cant we ever talk without an argument ?
demands hack as he surveys everyone with accusing eyes .
shit , well just call him boy .
now anyways , we are at the site and the copter is about to touch down .
i dont see anything but jungle .
i thought this tomb was supposed to be huge .
said gladiator .
thats because its not revealed yet .
the tomb is trapped in time at the exact instant the kings wish was granted .
explained xiona .
uh , howd you know that ?
did i miss something ?
no you didnt miss anything .
but the fact that shes the mole .
added explode , but this time in a calm tone .
finally frustrated with all the allegations , xiona stands up in the copter as it makes its descent .
dont you idiots get it ?
there is no mole .
this is one of the oldest tricks in the book .
by building distrust , he guarantees the safe return of the item he wants , if it even exists .
yeah , but you have to admit ... razz continued his brothers words ... you do seem to know a lot more about this mission ... ... than the rest of us .
this time tripwire finishes razzs comment .
all three of them look at each other and laugh .
exactly my point , mole !
explode added .
tired of explaining herself , xiona sits back down and mutters , whatever , why do i even try ?
are we are done with that subject , again ?
as soon as weve landed , i will use my laptop to determine where we can stand or not stand .
you guys unload the copter .
bebida asks , where we can and cant stand ?
hack explains , yes .
you see like xiona explained earlier .
the tomb is sealed in time .
bushes and trees and all the various things you see around you were not here in the past .
the laws of relativity states that two objects can not be in the same place at the same time .
everything in front of you will probably cease to exist while the tomb is present .
at least thats the theory .
and i dont believe anyone of you want to cease to exist right ?
whoa !
too much at one time .
states a confused gladiator .
gladiator , just please go help unload the equipment and gear , while i measure .
hack walks forward , while everyone else is busy unloading their gear .
chapter six the helicopter is completely unloaded and everyone , including kain , is standing behind hack .
everyones waiting to see what hes going to do with the stone of awareness that they took from the villager , a.k.a .
boy .
hack is holding the stone .
im pretty sure that we are far enough back out of harms way .
are you ready and you know what to say when i give you the cue , right ?
rugged replies , yeah , yeah , yeah .
lets get this show on the road already .
hack steps forward a step , to the mark he had previously made on the ground .
he holds the stone upward toward the bright blue sky .
ra ja ka .
stone of awareness reveal to us what has been hidden , reveal to us the tomb of king foymama !
as hack holds the stone upward , the sky darkens and fills with clouds .
lightning flashes across the sky and thunder echoes as the wind picks up .
with the loudness of the wind and thunder , hack must yell to rugged .
now !
say the words !
rugged steps forward , mauma sai mauma sai oh ahahah !
he keeps repeating the phrase .
the ground starts to shake .
the villager is trembling so much that he grabs hold of xiona tightly .
she doesnt seem bothered by his clutch .
everyone else seems to be keeping their cool .
slowly , but at an increasing rate , the temple is being revealed , as if an invisible blanket was being withdrawn .
now ive seen almost everything .
zarr states , as razz stands speechless .
almost everyone looking at the mostly revealed tomb seems speechless , except rugged who manages , wow , talk about massive .
finally the tomb is completely visible , yet the sky above it is covered with darkness .
the line hack made in the dirt is almost lined up with the visible line where darkness and light meet .
the violent elements are somewhat subdued .
trippy .
gladiator mutters as he looks down at the line .
suddenly , wearing her form fitting jet black ninja outfit and armed with tools of the trade , shadow sprints off into the darkness toward the tomb .
what the hell is she doing ?
explode exploded .
xiona yells shadow !
but to no avail , shadow was already passing through the temple entrance .
whats going on with her ?
razz asks .
yeah , why shed do that ?
zarr questions .
all questioning eyes turn toward hack .
like i know .
everybodys guess is as good as mine .
explode yells , well im not gon na stand around here all day while she grabs all the good shit !
first time for everything , but i agree with explode .
lets go .
rugged agrees .
ok .
i have the maps of the tomb printed out .
here are copies for everyone .
we can keep open communication with these walkie talkies .
i have one for each of you , but we shouldnt be separated in the first place .
this is just in case one of you decides to run off on a wild goose chase , a.k.a .
shadow .
there are only two paths that youll discover as soon as we are inside .
one leads to the treasure room and the other path , who knows .
but again , im pretty sure one or more of you will want to explore the unknown .
enough talk , i wan na rock n roll now .
bebida said .
explode agrees , then lets fucking go !
he flips on the infrared scope on his gun .
explodes infrared turns off as soon as he crossed the line between darkness and light .
what the fuck ?
he yells .
other members of the group experience the same as they crossed over .
hack explains that since the tomb is sealed in time , anything that was not conceivable during that time period probably wont work .
razz states , yeah makes sense but dont you think its quite odd that the only person who didnt bring any device of the sort ... zarr continues , ... . runs into the tomb like a bat out of hell as soon as the tomb was completely revealed ?
razz and zarr look at each other , hmmm .
tripwire adds , they do have a point .
bebida agrees with them , they sure do , and now what are we supposed to do with all this equipment , its useless .
hack , trying to make the best of out of a bad situation , well we can empty out all the bags or anything that carried something and use it to carry out artifacts .
plus rope and some other stuff are not useless .
rugged asks , so we just gon na leave everything here ?
explode erupts , this is bullshit .
i tell you what we should do with it .
we should shove it up kains ass .
i bet you shadow is the fucking mole .
the host said he hired her .
i bet you , they knew all along that this was gon na happen .
thats why she fuckin high tailed it out of here so fast .
hack tries to rationalize with him , calm down big guy .
dont you realize that youve blamed almost everyone of being in on some kind of conspiracy ?
dont you see that xionas theory is probably right ?
the host said that to plant distrust .
explode is beyond reasoning , fuck you !
fuck xiona !
fuck kain !
fuck shadow !
and fuck the host .
the last comment has finally received a rouse out of the normally quiet kain , who points at explode , who is about 20 yards away .
your mouth defiles you , insignificant bug .
kain ordered not to kill any of you but kain is known to disobey orders kain not like .
so watch your tongue speaking about the host .
take heed , you have been warned and kain only warns once .
kains voice was so deep and threatening that the birds and other animals in the surrounding area can be either seen or heard fleeing .
oh shit , mumbles zarr now youve done it .
razz adds .
the look on explodes face reveals that hes even shocked that kain spoke , but he holds his stance , what will you do about it ?
kain removes one of his gloves .
he reaches down and picks up a rock about the size of a soda can .
kains hand is so massive that only a small portion of the rock can be seen through his grip .
he starts to squeeze the rock .
the flames in his eyes glow brighter and the veins in his muscular arm start pulsating .
suddenly , steam starts to come from the visible part of the rock .
a red glow emanates from his hand .
the rock explodes .
kain didnt budge .
uh ... .
i think he answered your question , bebida says , who had pulled down his shades during this display to assure that his eyes were not deceiving him .
kain , with not even one bead of sweat , stands staring at explode .
explode visibly calmer , says to the group , grab some torches , i mean branches , so we can make torches .
he then grabs a couple of bags and heads off into the darkness .
still in shock of what they just witnessed , slowly and pretty much one by one , each member grabs their usable gear and or branches and head into the darkness leading to the tomb .
rugged says to hack as he walks by , ive got the villager .
hack doesnt acknowledge him .
xiona walks over and grabs him by the arm , come on , lets go .
hack asks her in an almost whisper , what the hell is he ?
xiona shakes her head , i dont know xiona and hack , the last two to depart , head into the darkness together .
chapter seven the expedition , minus shadow , heads down the poorly lit main hallway connecting the entrance to the ingress of the tomb .
lined up on each side of the corridor are magnificently detailed stone statues of ancient tribesmen and between each is a lit torch .
gladiator asks , how is it that these torches are still lit after so many years ?
flames dont usually last that long .
hack replies , i think it has something to do with the tomb being sealed in time .
who knows , if that is the case we might even run into a few servants or even the king himself .
so there might be people running around in here unaware of the fact that they are stuck in here and stuck in some horrible time loop ?
bebida asked .
possible but not likely .
foymama was very paranoid and trusted on a select few .
after the tomb was completed , anyone found within so many feet of the tomb was executed on sight .
you didnt need to be inside the tomb , explains xiona good , no unexpected greeters .
rugged adds .
cant agree with you .
i hope there is one particular individual here .
taxa .
taxa the weapon master ?
zarr asks .
the woman beast ?
razz also asks .
so youve heard of her ?
xiona queries to the twins .
what treasure hunter hasnt ?
story is that this half woman , half minotaur would go country to country and challenge their best warriors ... razz said .
... and she would fight any opponent with a weapon of their choice .
the winner would get the magnificent weapon that had to be put up beforehand ... zarr added .
... and she would only fight if the weapon was mythical or had supernatural powers .
hack said .
rumor is she never lost , acknowledges rugged .
xiona states confidently , and she never fought me .
ha !
explode laughed .
before xiona can comment on explodes laughter , bebida asks , and why would she be here ?
hack answers , because she was a beast summoned by foymama to win for him these weapons .
she is his servant .
xiona seems impressed that everyone seems to know so much about taxa .
gladiator asks , so xiona , you really think you can beat her ?
i wouldnt have taken the invite if i didnt .
so youre not the mole .
explode stated in an unusually calm manner .
why do you finally say that ?
cause you could care less about the damn stone .
exactly .
the closest thing weve probably ever had to a mole was probably kain .
so you dont think shadow was either ?
bebida asked .
nope .
i think shes on a mission for the katsuya corporation .
you think the japanese mob is using the host to find the stone ... . razz said .
or something else ?
zarr added .
wouldnt be the first time the mob used someone .
bebida said .
so , what about kain ?
what the hell is he ?
rugged asked .
this question seemed to strike a nerve in explode , who picks up his pace and distances himself from the rest of the group .
i dont know , but you seen what he did to that rock .
do you know how much pressure is needed to do that ?
hack asked .
do n't know ... . razz asked .
... and dont care to find out either .
zarr finished his sentence .
they both look at each other and laugh .
ive lived in the wilderness most of my life and have gained a sense of whats natural and whats not , good and evil .
its something i cant explain .
with him , i felt a whole lot of evil , stated rugged .
gladiator says you dont need anything special to sense that about him .
agreed , but dont you sense a whole lot of evil in this tomb also ?
yup .
tripwire warns , well guys .
i do recommend watching where you step .
otherwise you might accidentally activate a whole lot of evil in the form of traps .
we are only in the main corridor , which is not usually known for traps , but as greedy and paranoid as you guys make this king foymama sound .
i do believe we will find our share of them .
hack agrees , yes , lets keep our eyes peeled because once weve rounded this corner ahead , we should come to the fork in the path , and the fun begins .
out of sight and already around the corner , explode yells , what the fuck is this shit ?
the group starts to run immediately to catch up to him around the bend .
when they arrive , to their collective surprise the path splits into three instead of two like the maps had shown .
whats this ?
i thought you said there were going to be two paths ?
bebida demanded .
having no answer readily available , hack stands speechless .
rugged says , looks like the fun has already begun .
venting frustration bebida yells at rugged , shut the hell up old man , this shit aint funny !
grabbing his crotch , rugged fires back i got your old man right here , you fucking freak !
freak ?
xiona tries to calm everyone down .
explode yells at her .
shut up bitch !
luckily for explode , xiona is about ten feet away and with zarr and razz in her way , because the look on her face is extremely serious , ive told you about that .
hack screams at the top of his lungs , damn it everyone !
this is not the time for this bullshit .
we are on a time schedule .
and unless any of you had planned on spending eternity in here , calm the fuck down !
this gathers everyone attention but the scene is still amped .
red faced from yelling , hack continues , we are all professionals , some more than others but never the less , we need to work together .
please .
the atmosphere seemed to lighten somewhat .
hack continues .
the host was right when he said that our unique individual abilities would help this mission .
razz .
zarr .
is there a certain distance in which you two lose your abilities to read each others thoughts ?
razz and zarr both simply answer at the same time , no .
good .
you two will be split up , so that way you two can keep the other ones group informed of your progress .
this will also help everyone figure out how much time you have left before the tomb re seals itself .
they both nod in agreement .
rugged , i believe you can tell how much time has passed without a watch right ?
yes , you are correct .
no need to be trapped by technology good .
youre with me , so i dont lose track of time .
explode and tripwire , you two are with zarr 'cause i cant image you and xiona teaming up .
explode agrees , you got that right .
he starts down the far right path .
hack speeds up realizing explodes not going to stick around to hear all of his improv directions .
gladiator , youre with me .
xiona and bebida youre with razz .
if any of you havent found the stone by roughly ten to eleven hours , meet back here and then well get the hell out of here .
everyone that is left agrees , grabbing their gear and heading their separate ways .
chapter eight explode , tripwire and zarr walk down the path chosen by hack .
its a cave tunnel .
a contrast to the smooth , well manicured main hallway they traveled earlier .
this ten foot high walkway is laced with jagged rock formations that are lined on the top and bottom of this cave .
the rocks lined up resemble teeth and added to the already creepy atmosphere of the tomb .
this place is creepy and odd .
its nothing like where we were just moments ago .
i wonder who designed this place .
zarr says .
its probably an additional path that was built out of necessity or convenience after the tomb was already completed .
we should be coming to a room that was part of the original design real soon .
tripwire said .
i sure hope so .
my back is starting to cramp up .
explode said with a hint of humor , his first attempt this whole trip .
it doesnt go unnoticed .
so big guy , can i ask you a question without the fear of bodily harm ?
zarr asked .
maybe .
zarr decides that it might not be best to upset this man , uh ... . nevermind then .
with a smile that seemed to light up the whole tunnel and catching his traveling companions completely off guard , ok , i wont hurt you .
ask .
stunned by explodes smile and pleasant mood , zarr pauses for a second in both movement and thought .
well ?
mustering the courage , do you have a problem with xiona , women in general or are you just plain angry ?
zarr instinctually assumes a defensive stance .
explode stops walking .
zarr tenses up more and moves into a more defensive position .
explode bursts out laughing , hahahaha , its ok little man , im not gon na hurt you .
so you can calm down .
a look of relief covers zarrs face .
xiona is just a bitch , like most women .
no , i do n't have any problems with her or any woman .
actually , throwing two stars with that much accuracy kinda impressed me .
explodes smile disappeared as fast it first appeared , now if you tell her that or anyone else .
ill hurt you bad , real bad !
zarr is once again visibly nervous until explode explodes with laughter again .
oh man , this is fun .
tripwire , who had started to walk ahead , yells back , yo , ive found a room .
zarr and explode start walking again , when they catch up with tripwire , they both are laughing .
did i miss something ?
removing the smile from his face explode says in his typical loud manner , nope .
zarr surveys the room and says .
wow .
now this is more like it .
the room is massive and appears to have been used as a meeting place of some sort .
on each side are huge stone steps probably used for seating and enjoying the happenings .
to the front is an elevated balcony , which probably was used for seating some people of importance , such as the king and his personal guests .
so what do you think this room was used for ?
gladiator sports or something similar ?
explode asked .
naw , probably used for performing shows or maybe executions .
gladiator style arenas are usually enclosed .
zarr explained .
yeah this place was probably used for executions .
remember , no one was allowed in the tomb because the king was rumored to be extremely paranoid .
so i doubt that he would let entertainers in here .
they continue across the huge courtyard .
tripwire is out pacing them as he continues to talk .
we are probably still really far away from any real treasures , considering this place was made for some sort of spectating .
as he walks and looks around for any evidence to prove his theory , he steps on something and immediately stops .
shit !
whats the hell wrong with you ?
explode yelled .
embarrassed but knowing that this is more likely a life and death situation that he put himself in , he answers truthfully , i stepped on a trap .
zarr starts laughing and explode follows suit , i thought you were the so called ancient trap expert ?
frustrated tripwire yells , this is not funny .
this trap is going to affect all of us .
look above you .
standing next to tripwire , they both look upward .
their collective laughter stops .
above them is ceiling of spikes spanning in almost a thousand square feet .
what the fuck ?
thats almost the size of this arena .
observes explode , as they all stand under the dead center of the spiked ceiling .
so this is how the king got his kick .
watching people getting squished .
tripwire explains , he probably made the person stand here on the spot that im standing on and watched them as they tried to run for the edge .
as you can see from the various bones stuck between the spikes near the outskirts of this contraption , most of them didnt make it he continues , what we need is something to slide over this damn box ive stepped on .
something to take my place , like a huge rock or something .
well this aint our problem .
we can just walk away now .
explode stated with an emphasis on the word we .
shocked and trying to reason , but without me , you wont be able to disable other traps like this one .
zarr smiles and agrees , hes got a point , big guy .
yeah , but hes the dumb ass who didnt even see this trap !
stated explode in his fiery temper .
zarr is still smiling , now he has a point , i guess you guys are even .
cmon guys , this is serious !
explode and zarr look at each other , zarr says , okay i dont see why not ?
but you owe us one .
a weary legged tripwire says , okay , sure , whatever guys .
just find a good size rock , please .
explode turns to his left to look for a rock and notices a good size one nearby .
hey this should work .
as he leans forward to hoist it up , tripwire yells , no !
what the fuck ?
first you want us to get you a fucking rock and now you dont ?
make up your fucking mind !
that rock is too convenient to reach its more than likely part of this trap also .
for crying out loud , then what the hell do you want us to do ?
just find a different rock thats outside the area of the spikes .
thats all .
explode complains , and bring it all the way back over here ?
explode please this is life and death we are talking about .
shit , ill give you first dibs on the treasure when we find any , okay ?
shit , i had first dibs whether you gave it to me or not .
explode and zarr walk back up toward the tunnel they originally came from .
tripwire feels his leg going numb from standing in the same stance .
damn it !
whats taking them so long ?
i bet they found another path and said to hell with me .
he continues to wait patiently for a few more minutes .
with no sign of them , frustration and also leg numbness all bothering him , tripwire starts to have a panic attack .
damn .
all the traps that ive barely escaped , all the missions and adventures ive been on , and im gon na die like this ?
venting he yells , well , fuck you too !
dont get your panties in a bunch , you little bitch !
explode yelled as they appear at the tunnel entrance .
explode is carrying a massive rock .
so this is how you thank your heroes ?
asks zarr .
what took you so long ?
do you realize how heavy that rock is ?
explode answers , not like you know either .
shit , ive been the one carrying it all the way back here .
so where do you want it , trip ?
put it down next to my foot and when i slide my foot off slowly , youll push it onto the square .
explode places the rock next to tripwires foot , then slides it slowly as told .
once tripwires foot is completely removed , all three look up instinctively to see if theres any movement .
there is none .
whew , that was a close one .
zarr stated .
naw .
i knew everything would be okay , 'cause im that lucky .
thirty plus expeditions prove that .
says a now confident tripwire .
is that so ?
then why were you whining like a little bitch when we were coming back here ?
no comment .
explode erupts in laughter , and zarr and tripwire follow suit .
they walk toward a doorway leading to another room .
chapter nine as xiona , razz and bebida walk toward their pre chosen path , they come up to a tunnel similar to the one explodes group had found .
talk about cheap , stated bebida as he surveyed the walkway , how could one part of the tomb look so nice and this look like this ?
at least they could have added extra spots for torches .
the only light in this tunnel is from the torches they are carrying .
maybe the day that is repeating itself is the day before they had a chance to finish the tunnel .
xiona guessed .
could be .
but do you think that they really have no clue that this day is repeating itself ?
if theres anyone in here besides the king , they probably have no clue .
changing the subject , razz asks , so why in the world would you want to risk your life fighting an unbeatable legend like taxa if she does exist ?
im pretty sure that you know that legends state that she only fights to the death .
if shes still alive , do i need say more ?
i am fighting her for the sword of benskin .
i only collect weapons used by great female warriors and heroes throughout history .
a common villager named leonna benskin used the sword of benskin .
the village in which she lived was in between two wealthy and powerful kingdoms .
some travelers between the two empires would stop there for rest , relaxation and rape .
during the average week , at least one or two small bands of thieves , marauders and or rapists would rage havoc on the helpless village .
after her daughter was raped and killed , leonna left on a journey to find a powerful mage named gilica to help her protect the town and extract revenge .
he enchanted the light sword she carried with her .
the enchantment gave any female user the power of ten men and the speed and alertness of the most skilled warriors .
she was able to successfully defend the town single handedly , even in her later years .
until taxa came along .
bebida asks , let me get this story straight .
this sword gave the lady incredible strength , agility and awareness ?
correct .
taxa beat her ?
correct .
so why in the hell do you think you can beat her ?
when she fought taxa , she used the sword right ?
im fully confident i can beat her and yes she did use the sword .
razz exclaims , i cant believe he asked that !
why not ?
its a valid question that i asked her .
realizing that he thought out loud about what his brother just asked explode and that he wasnt paying one bit of attention to what bebida and xiona were talking about .
oh , im sorry .
it was something that my brother just asked .
please go ahead .
bebida mumbles , and im the freak huh ?
no one noticed his muffled comment , so how do you plan on beating her ?
xiona explains , taxa is a very talented weapon master and uses the weapon her opponent uses to help build a false sense of confidence .
but little does her opponent know that the necklace that taxa wears around her massive neck , gives her the same abilities and powers as the weapon that they are using against taxa .
same exact abilities ?
correct .
so they are on an even playing field then , right ?
not necessarily , unless you think that any human could ever be on the same level as an eight foot , four hundred pound minotaur with the mastery of almost every type of weapon known to man .
then how do you plan on beating her ?
with skill and cunningness , confidently xiona states .
razz says low and to himself , i think he has a crush on her .
caught off guard by the comment , what was that ?
bebida snapped .
oh , sorry i was talking to my brother .
that explodes actually a funny guy .
razz explained .
huh ?
he didnt realize he was talking to his brother out loud .
bebida and xiona realize that the twins must always have this line of communication through thoughts going on .
so it must get annoying huh ?
bebida asked .
only when he gets lucky , answers razz with a huge grin .
anyways , objects xiona , we are reaching the end of the tunnel .
as they enter the room connected to the end of the tunnel a look of disbelief covers all their faces .
youve got to be kidding ?
bebida states as he looks around the massive room .
this room is smoldering hot .
steam rises from the huge holes in the ground which would appear endless if wasnt for the lava occasionally bubbling from the bottom of each pit .
this appears to be the only way across .
each pillar is only about one to two square feet in width and the distance between them is about five to six feet apart .
this person would have to make at least six successful leaps in succession to get to the other side .
no fucking way .
how the hell are we supposed to cross that ?
bebida asked .
i think thats the point .
we arent , says razz .
well you were in the circus , monkey boy .
show us your stuff .
it wasnt that kind of act , objects razz , who then turns to xiona , do you think you could get across xiona ?
no .
even if i did how would you guys get across ?
at that moment before any of them could answer , shadow drops from the ceiling right in front of them , with her sword drawn .
only xiona reacts fast enough to have her weapon out .
whats going on ?
razz asks in nervous tone .
shadow says nothing as she looks all three of them over as if she was inspecting them .
i dont know but i dont like it , says bebida as he slowly reaches for his knife in its hip sleeve , shadow looks them over one more time , and then puts her sword away .
um ... what just happened ?
bebida asked as he stops going for his blade .
well , i almost soiled myself .
razz stated .
are you okay , shadow ?
xiona asked .
shadow looks upward over the lava pits .
xiona looks up also and now notices a rickety old wooden bridge .
a bridge ?
xiona realizes that is why shadow looks up she was trying to tell them about the bridge .
but how are we supposed to get up there ?
razz asked .
shadow turns toward the pits , and with the agility of a cat and olympic gymnast she gracefully leaps from one pillar to another .
shocked by what just happened and her skills , they just stand there and watch .
i must have missed something , says bebida .
i think we all did , says razz .
once shadow is on the other side , she walks up to a wall and pulls a lever , the bridge starts to lower .
was i the only one who had sensed that she was poised to kill us ?
razz asked .
nope , says bebida .
and now she saves us .
xiona added .
once the bridge has come to a stop and they are able to cross , shadow runs off into the doorway next to the lever .
as they cross the bridge , bebida says to xiona , i dont think you are the only woman here with her own agenda .
i agree , says xiona .
chapter ten so captain , is this the right way ?
rugged asks .
tired of trying to keep his composure , hack fires back , im not a damn captain !
calm down .
i was just joking .
i think youre doing a good job despite all this unexpected stuff that keeps happening .
thank you , i guess , but im not a leader .
ive never been a leader and i dont want to be one either .
gladiator , who is trailing back , simply because he is admiring all the fine marksmanship in this well crafted corridor , full of hieroglyphics , says i think youre doing great .
this compliment seems to mean more to hack than ruggeds did , really ?
yup , i mean i dont think i couldve kept xiona and explode from killing each other by now .
hack and rugged both laugh .
rugged adds , i agree kiddo , also you being a man of technology , i thought you would be lost without it , but youre holding your own .
turning the attention from himself , hack asks , speaking of holding their own , how do you think the other groups are holding up ?
gladiator fields the question , probably fine .
we havent had any problems yet .
speak for yourself , ive needed to piss for about an hour now , says rugged .
well why havent you ?
we arent that pressed for time , says hack .
well i guess , but you have to watch our little friend here .
i dont want him watching me take a leak , says rugged about their prisoner .
okay and you might wan na ask him if he needs to also .
who cares if he does ?
just ask him .
rugged shrugs , then says something in the villagers own tongue to him .
the villager replies .
he said no , says rugged .
that sounded like a lot more than just no .
what did he say ?
hack asked about the villagers ten second response .
it sure did , agrees gladiator , who has now stopped to admire more artwork .
fine !
if you must know .
he said , no , but please , please , please , i beg you to let me go home before i am cursed too .
there are you guys happy now ?
um ... not really , gulps gladiator .
cursed ?
hack asked .
dont worry about it .
all places like these are supposedly cursed .
the only one cursed here is me .
my curse is that ill never be able to take a leak .
oh , sorry , go ahead , apologizes hack .
rugged walks over to a wall to urinate , damn idiots , every tomb is supposedly cursed and they call themselves treasure hunters ?
he mumbled to himself .
as he continues to unleash a lengthy one , he notices that one of the hieroglyphics in front of him has a ruby as its eye .
he thinks to himself , sweet .
finally some treasure .
he reaches out to touch the jewel , while hes still doing his thing .
as soon as he touches it , three huge axe blades swing from hidden crevices in the wall , each in the opposite directions of the next .
gladiator is a little ways back and out of range of these blades .
unfortunately he was the only one so lucky .
hack notices the front outer blade , the one closest to him , and manages to avoid it .
his backpack wasnt so lucky .
the razor sharp blade smoothly removed the backpack from his back along with part of his jackets hood .
he rolled to safety .
their captive was caught completely by surprise .
by pure luck and his thin stature , he stood safely between the two saw blades closest to him as they passed by each other and him .
rugged was the true victim of misfortune , as he was standing next to where the farthest back blade emerged .
the saw tore into his forearm , leaving a three inch deep gash .
the three blades swing back into their resting places .
son of a bitch !
hollers rugged from the ground .
you okay ?
hack asked .
hack is several feet ahead , also on the hallway floor .
what happened ?
gladiator asks as he runs toward rugged .
i thought that damn thing was a jewel but it was a stinking trap .
gladiator comes to a stop by rugged , thats why i was only looking , not touching .
i saw something like that on the wall over where i was standing .
a little late for the info .
ow !
rugged says as he clenches his injured arm .
gladiator helps rugged to his feet , can you still walk or do you need me to carry you ?
shut up !
this little flesh wound ... .ow !
rugged cant even finish the sentence because of the pain .
sure , flesh wound huh ?
gladiator then points at the villager , whos still standing in the exact same spot he was when the blades passed him .
whats wrong with him ?
is he hurt ?
as he starts to stand hack answers , i dont think so .
probably just feels that hes cursed , thats all .
rugged and gladiator slowly make their way across where the blades had crossed .
gladiator grabs the villager and says in his best policeman impersonation , come on move it mister , theres nothing to see here .
he escorts him back over to where hacks standing .
hack asks rugged , you gon na be okay ?
yeah .
what about him ?
he looks like hes the walking dead or something .
he probably feels that way .
the curse he spoke of is that no one messes with king foymamas treasure and lives .
well just like you said earlier , looks like the fun has begun .
this playful comment doesnt gain any kind of response from rugged , but does get a big grin from gladiator .
whatever .
rugged mumbles as they head deeper into the tomb .
chapter eleven she had to come down this way stated xiona , referring to shadow .
then where is she ?
she couldnt be that far ahead of us razz replied .
this whole thing with her stinks .
ive stared killers in the eyes before , and just her body language and movements said that she was going to attack , but she didnt .
bebida stated .
well shes not gon na catch me off guard again .
he removes his knife .
but if she was going to kill us , why would she help us then ?
razz stated with a puzzled look .
thats what i dont understand .
if she was going to kill you two , you would be dead right now , instead of asking questions .
xionas firm statement didnt mold too well with bebida .
what ?
you two were caught completely by surprise by her frozen in time , like this tomb .
bebida rudely fires back , whatever .
i see why explode doesnt like you .
xiona brushes the comment off with a light laugh .
shes right , well at least kinda .
we do need to be more ready .
you know , just in case .
zarr pulls out a highly colorful sword that was in its backside sleeve .
the sword and sleeve were undetectable to the naked eye .
pretty neat little trick .
didnt even know you were armed .
thats the most common , last words i hear .
xiona interrupts , enough of the ego checking .
theres a door up ahead .
lets keep on our toes and eyes peeled for traps and shadow .
she might not be in such a helpful mood later .
once all three have passed through the doorway , a huge block of stone slams down behind them , closing off the previous path .
bebida says , thats not a good sign .
tell me about it .
razz added .
they find themselves walking across an arena .
this arena is completely surrounded with cement steps like the room explode and company encountered , but this arena is enclosed from all sides .
the seating swings around like a horseshoe , giving it the feel of a stadium of some sort .
up high above in the rock like rafters , in a circle that follows the flow of seating are statues of archers with arrow tips pointing upward toward the ceiling .
xiona is the first to notice this .
this must have been used as some sort of arena for fighting or dueling .
sarcastically bebida says , maybe youll find taxa here .
a voice that is so thunderous that it feels as if the ground was shaking , echoes out , look no further !
oh my ... razz started to say , but the sight of the creature approaching cuts that short .
taxa walks through the doorway opposite the way they entered .
shes over eight feet in height and weighing easily 400 pounds , with pulsating muscles .
razz is still stuck in thought .
bebida is awe struck , look at the size of her ... if youre sure shes a woman .
this is my destiny .
xiona walks forward toward taxa , whos approaching the middle of the arena , leaving her companions standing in place .
taxa has a large chain draped over her shoulder which is hooked to a massive cart full of weapons .
the squeaking of the wheels sends chills down the mens spines .
are you sure you want to do this , xiona ?
razz asked right before he gulped .
taxa answers for her , she has no choice , unless one of you would like to take her place .
both men remain silent .
taxa continues , you have summoned me by coming into my arena .
either you battle me and die , or just die .
xiona boldly adds , im adding a third choice .
battle and win .
smiling and exposing her fanged teeth , sorry to disappoint you , but that choice is reserved for me .
bebida yells to xiona , you dont have to fight her .
lets just run !
razz adds , or we could help .
xiona looks at them at out of the corner of her eye , that would not be very honorable .
and neither is losing your head .
taxas voice thunders again , little man , you dont seem to understand .
the only way out is past me in one on one combat .
if you or anyone interferes , then you will feel the rain of arrows .
taxa points up at the ceiling .
everyone in the room looks up at the ceiling .
the archer statues are now aimed downward toward them .
taxa once again continues , it will also rain when she loses .
taxa gives off another eerie laugh that makes the loose pebbles fall from the ceiling .
so runt , what weapon do you choose to die with and what weapon are you offering up as the wager ?
i offer the dagger of stealth .
it was once used by zuma the thief to kill an entire thiefs nest to avenge her brothers betrayal and death .
she pulls out a dagger from a pouch .
and i will use my broad sword to fight .
taxa replies , a worthy weapon that has slain many .
it will make an excellent addition to my collection but you failed to mention the name and history of your broad sword .
no i didnt forget .
it has no worthy name or history .
its just a weapon i picked up for my battle with you .
taxa looks a little confused .
xiona explains , taxa , i know about the power of your necklace and how it copies the special abilities of similar weapons used against you , then multiplies it .
so there will be no extra advantages for you or for me .
just a fair and level playing field .
taxa smiles once again , fair and level ?
you versus me ?
you make me laugh , squirt .
i eat rats bigger than you .
man , just her laugh would be enough to make me drop .
razz states as he stands by .
you can do it !
bebida yelled .
razz is shocked at bebidas newfound faith i know i can .
xiona said confidently .
razz asks , do you really think she can ?
bebida replies , nope , not a chance .
we need to try to edge ourselves toward that door .
so we can haul ass when we get our chance .
so you want to just abandon her ?
shes as good as dead .
do you wan na die with her ?
how can you be so sure ?
xiona could probably whip you around .
and definitely whip yours , but thats beside the point .
when i get my chance , im gone and i advise you to do the same likewise .
taxa reaches into her cart and pulls out a broadsword similar to xionas .
are you ready to die , little one ?
lets go !
the two combatants start to circle each other .
taxa makes the first move .
taxas powerful swings are blocked valiantly by xionas broadsword but each powerful strike backs her up .
the sounds of steel meeting steel echoes throughout the arena .
taxa backed xiona against the cement stands .
taxa swung and missed , hitting the cement and removing a big chunk from the wall .
taxa turns and faces xiona , who has managed to put about ten feet between them , you run well , bug , but lets see how well you fight .
taxa charges again with more big shots meeting xionas blade .
the ones that dont connect with steel barely miss flesh .
any one of these blows would kill her on impact .
bebida slowly scoots toward the exit unnoticed by the combatants but not unnoticed by the archers , who have pulled their bows tighter .
they also move along with him .
razz notices both , bebida , stop or theyre going to shoot .
look !
bebida looks up and notices the same .
he moves slowly back to his original place next to razz .
he asks razz candidly , so whos winning ?
you know , youre a real piece .
bebida ignores the insult , so if she wins , shell get the weapon shes after right ?
shell get all of taxas weapons .
meanwhile , taxa had thought she had xiona cornered again but xiona had managed to escape yet again .
taxa says through her fanged smile , if you think you are going to tire me out , think again .
this is barely a warm up .
well , i pity you then , because this was my warm up and im ready now .
then bring it on , bug !
xiona charges taxa and delivers several blows that are blocked by taxa who holds her ground .
taxa tries to counter attack one of xionas attacks but this was the opening xiona was waiting for .
she delivers a counter of her own , cutting a gash across taxas midsection .
its not a major wound , but taxa is bleeding .
good one .
youre better than i thought you would be .
only one other person has ever hit me before .
he survived because hes immortal , but you arent so lucky .
taxa smiles and charges again .
they exchange blows once more .
most of taxas blows are dodged , while most of xionas swings are blocked by taxa .
taxa almost had xiona trapped in the corner again .
taxa swings her sword with more control than power and doesnt charge xiona like she has both times before .
instead , taxa leaped backwards .
xiona didnt expect this maneuver and leaped as if she expected taxa to charge again .
this mistake proved to be fatal .
as she raised from rolling away from the non existent charge , her eyes locked onto the downward motion of taxas blade .
the blow splits xionas skull right down the middle and the blade doesnt stop until its just above her neck .
bebida tugs at razz , whos frozen in disbelief , lets get the hell out of here !
taxa lets out an even louder laugh than before as she lift xionas lifeless body , which is slowly sliding down the shaft of her blade .
xionas head is squirting blood .
the sound of an arrow landing next to him awakens razz from his daze .
they hightail it toward the exit as arrows rain down from above , barely missing them .
taxas laughter can still be heard as they exit the room .
chapter twelve hey , they found shadow !
or i guess she found them .
just depends on how you look at it .
zarr , what the heck are you talking about ?
remembering that the twins can read hear each others thoughts , tripwire adds , oh , you mean your brothers group right ?
yup .
explodes expresses in his fiery tone , well , we need to worry about us .
she chose not to be with us , so as far as im concerned , shes against us .
so the bitch best not get in my way !
they continue their way down another pathway .
this one is similar to the main corridor that hacks party had already come across .
im not sure if shes with us or against us .
at least , thats how my brother feels .
referring to the link between the twins , explode yells , damn it , cant you turn it off ?
its now very apparent that his well natured moments are short lived .
no , i cant and why would i ?
that would be way too weird .
why ?
you wan na turn it off because its annoying the hell out of me .
thats why !
zarr says nothing .
they continue walking .
tripwire states , actually , we need to pay better attention to our surroundings so that we dont activate any more traps in the most sarcastic tone hes used the whole adventure , explode says , we ?
we didnt step on any traps .
you did mr .
trap master .
go ahead and rub it in .
even us pros mess up every once in a while .
zarr laughs quietly to himself about something his brother said to his party .
tripwire says , i feel moisture in the air .
we must be close to a large body of water .
in a tomb ?
zarr questioned .
not normally , but this tomb doesnt have the normal tomb feel either .
agreed .
as they exit the tunnel , they find themselves standing in front of a mini lake inside a cavern .
explode asks in a smart alec manner , so whats the trap here ?
tripwire didnt notice , probably huge pits with spiked bottoms because this lake appears fairly shallow .
zarr says , nope , no bridge .
tripwire asks , what ?
bridge where ?
nevermind .
turn it off before i do !
zarr starts off into the water without acknowledging explodes threat .
tripwire and explode follow .
tripwire says , starting with me .
lets all try to be careful where we step .
about a third of the way across , zarr drops his torch by accident .
he bends over to pick it up , ouch !
what in the world just bit me ?
he lifts his hand out of the water to find a piranha locked onto it .
ahhhhh !
he tries to shake it off as he runs across the lake .
tripwire frantically asks .
what happened ?
whats going on ?
explode feels something gnawing at his boot , oh shit !
theres something in the water !
its piranhas , snakes or something !
they all start to race across the lake .
explode is doing double time as he passes tripwire and accidentally bumps into zarr .
zarr falls face first into the water .
explode doesnt realize this and continues on .
tripwire is so worried about self preservation that he didnt notice zarr submerged under the water as he passed by him .
after both men have passed him , zarr raises out of the water grasping for air and with about a dozen piranhas locked onto various body parts .
the splashing and panicking of explode and tripwire drowns his screams out .
zarr starts to run again with these flesh eaters dangling off him , until he trips over an elevated ridge that barely avoids breaking the lakes surface .
this sends him into the water again .
he fights and kicks to gain his footing again as these razor tooth fish continue to rip at his flesh .
once explode and tripwire make it to dry land , they shake , swing , bat and do everything they can to get the watery leeches off themselves .
finally , once all the fish are removed , they realize that zarr is not with them .
explode shows concern in his voice , zarr ?
little buddy ?
they both survey the lake from the dry land for any sign of him .
zarr , stop fucking playing !
tripwire notices several feet outward , zarrs body floating facedown , moving several feet away , with a few jerky movements .
he points it out to explode .
immediately , explode starts to head back out into the water .
hes dead , explode .
no .
hes moving !
no ... .thats the fish ... eating him .
he cant breathe in the water facedown like that .
explode stops in place .
reality has set in .
he turns and screams , fuck you , foymama !
im coming for your ass !
he then heads off toward the new exit , stomping on the flopping fish removed from their clothing and bodies .
tripwire decides its probably best for him to remain quiet and just follows him , keeping a good distance .
chapter thirteen after a long walk , bebida and razz find themselves in a small room thats only about 20 square feet .
once again , a cement block falls down and blocks their exit .
damn it .
razz this is becoming very bothersome .
i still cant believe that shes dead .
well believe it , 'cause she is and theres nothing we can do about it .
we need to worry about our own survival .
are you really that cold blooded ?
you have to be to survive places like this .
or have you forgotten about the fact that there are probably things in here that want us dead too ?
no , youre right , and i have thought about that .
speaking of that , i have a bad feeling about this room too .
they both turn their attention to the center of the room , where theres a stand that has a cube shaped puzzle box resting on top of it .
theres an inscription on the side of the stand .
bebida looks around seeing no visible exits .
it appears that the box must either be our way out or our death trap activator .
the only exit other than the one they came through , which is now blocked , is a door on the opposite side of the room .
this one is sealed .
he reads the inscription , fix the cube before the cube is filled .
what is that supposed to mean ?
razz had assumed that this was going to be in some old ancient dialect , you can read that ?
um yeah .
its in plain english .
what ?
let me see this .
razz inspected the words .
no , its in romanian .
im looking at it right now , and its english .
something is definitely not right with this tomb .
its translating the words in each of our native tongues .
weird .
very weird .
so do you know how to solve this puzzle so that we can open the door ?
its identical to what you americans called the rubiks cube but instead of colors , it has symbols .
bebida inspects the cube without touching it .
youre right , it is .
so can you solve it ?
can a romanian woman cook ?
razz asked with a confident smile .
i dont know , never met one .
razz is still smiling , just watch .
he lifts the cube off the stand .
two brick size holes open on all four walls .
water rapidly flows from them .
so thats the trap huh ?
if you dont solve it fast enough , you drown .
well , you better hurry up then .
well bebida , you could always do it yourself .
razz then taunted him like he was handing him it to solve .
shit !
stop playing !
razz was already at work on it .
calm down , this is a piece of cake .
im almost done and the water isnt even to our knees yet .
yeah , yeah , yeah .
i solved one of those before and i know it might seem like youre almost done when youre not .
the water is a little past their knees when all of a sudden razz starts flipping out and screaming .
theyre in the water !
get them off !
get them off !
what the hell are you talking about ?
demanded bebida as he frantically looks around in the water .
i dont see anything !
what are you talking about ?
somebody help him .
somebody !
explode , come back !
ahhhhhh !
explode ?
what are you talking about ?
youre not making any sense .
suddenly it dawns on him .
he must be talking about something going on with his brother .
snap out of it man !
the water is chest high man !
damn it , you got ta snap out of it .
hes shaking him as furiously as he can in the chest level water .
as suddenly as he started yelling , razz stops .
he drops the cube , which starts to sink to the bottom .
bebida screams , what are you doing ?
in an almost whisper , razz squeaks out , silence ... nothing but silence .
what ?
was all bebida said before he dove into the water to retrieve the puzzle box .
he searches the floor .
he finds it and swims back to the surface .
no longer able to stand and have the water not over his head , he swims and tries to remember how to solve the puzzle at the same time .
he thinks to himself as he stays afloat , cmon mike , you can do this .
think !
running out of breathing space , as the water is nearing the ceiling , he takes one last deep breath and dives down by the pillar .
he works on it there .
he fumbles the cube but regains control and turns a few more parts .
yes !
about damn time .
he thought as he reached out to place it on the pillar .
once in place he turns it to the right and both exits open slowly .
water flows outward .
in a few seconds , that felt like hours , the room is empty of water .
bebida , lying on the rooms floor , is drenching wet and short of breath .
he tries to stand but cant .
he decided to crawl out of the room just in case the door decided to shut .
once out and into the hallway , he sits up and turns around to see razzs lifeless body sprawled out on the floor .
bebida stands up and heads down the hallway opposite the room .
after a few steps he stops and turns back and looks at razz one last time .
i cant say i feel for you 'cause i have a real bad feeling you might just be the lucky one of us two .
he turns and heads down the latest tunnel until he hears an unrecognizable voice .
he wields his knife .
im ready for you this time , motherfuckers .
then he creeps down the corridor , ready to strike .
chapter fourteen so hows the arm holding up ?
asked gladiator .
fine .
its just fine answered rugged as the two walk side by side .
hacks in the lead along with the prisoner walking in between .
i dont understand why we are still holding him hostage .
weve already found the tomb .
hack agrees .
rugged answers , because we cant just let him go .
what if they know a way to seal us in here ?
highly unlikely .
but im not willing to take that chance .
gladiator nods in agreement .
hack ponders out loud .
i wonder how everyone else is doing ?
probably just as good as we are .
maybe a scrape or two but nothing too serious probably .
rugged adds , yeah , as long as they didnt set off any traps .
hack continues to ponder out loud , i wonder what shadows up to ?
rugged smugly says , probably already got the stone and high tailed it out of here .
its not like she would stop and tell anyone or be able to .
what do you mean by able to ?
she works for the katsuya company right ?
the japanese mob ?
and now that i think about it , i think my son archan told me that they cut out the tongues of their secret operatives so that they cant talk .
thats absurd .
that makes no sense at all .
why would they do that ?
so she could never talk about the mafia to the police .
gladiator asks , well , couldnt she just write it down ?
rugged realizes that his theory is flawed but instead of admitting it he says , then why do you think that she doesnt talk ?
maybe she does .
just not to us .
again frustrated , rugged decides to keep his mouth shut .
hack laughs , rugged speechless ?
these walls do seem to have magical powers .
rugged quickly changes the subject , havent we pretty much been walking down one long hallway ?
pretty much .
but this peaceful walk sure beats the hell out of dodging swinging axes .
gladiator adds , well , at least the scenery changes a little .
he referred to the stone statues of knights .
first we had hieroglyphics , then the clay pots , followed by stone animals and now knights .
hack adds , yeah , its kinda like walking through a museum .
yeah , a really creepy one .
they continue down the path .
unnoticed to them , two of the statues that they passed have come to life and are approaching fast from behind .
one statue follows about thirty feet behind the first one .
gladiator is pulling up the rear with rugged , well , at least when we find some treasure , well have a straight shot out of here .
hack looks back to acknowledge him but to his dismay he notices the closest statue which is directly behind rugged and gladiator .
look out !
both men turn at the same time , notice and try to avoid the halberd coming down from above the attacking statues head .
gladiator was successful .
again , rugged wasnt so lucky .
the weapon swipes his already injured arm , this time a little higher up , right above his bicep .
damn it !
rugged yelled as he hits the floor .
the villager , who also hit the floor in panic , is frozen once again with fear , this time out of harms way by tripping over hacks foot .
the statue lifts its halberd above its head again , readying to deliver a deathblow to the downed rugged .
gladiator snatches the weapon out its hand .
he hoists the stone knight above his head in a wrestling style press .
instead of dropping it , he runs with it toward the closest wall .
the knights head shatters like a piata .
as the now motionless body hits the floor , the cavity reveals things usually not welcomed as treats .
hundreds of black dung beetles crawl out of its neck .
this sight immediately serves as a motivating reason to get off their butts for rugged and the villager .
rugged , looking down at the beetles escaping in all directions , says yeah , that was pretty sick .
gladiator throws up both hands in a victorious manner .
he yells , whoa !
he stops yelling and his eyes open wide as if hes seen a ghost .
suddenly the tip of the spear that the second statue was carrying extrudes from his chest .
blood forms a crimson circle in the center of his chest .
it starts to drip down his shirt .
the big man collapses dead with his eyes still wide open and the spear inside him .
rugged , who is now standing , pulls out his machete , swings it at the neck of the now unarmed and exposed stone knight .
die you bastard !
the swing decapitates the stone monster .
it follows suit of its companion and collapses to the ground .
once the body has come to a full rest , fist size rats run from the exposed neck .
hack exclaims , what the hell is going on here ?
the rodents scamper away into the same cracks along the walls that the bugs did .
i dont know , but lets get out of here before any more of these statues come to life .
rugged and party look around nervously as they are still amidst rows of statues .
agreed !
rugged puts his weapon away , grabs the villager by the arm with his good arm .
they hastily head down the corridor .
chapter fifteen explode and tripwire continue to walk down corridor after corridor with no sign of a room , and with no conversation .
that is , until tripwire notices light shining through a crack in a wall .
you see that ?
he points at the crack .
explode was in deep thought about something , huh ?
what ?
tripwire reiterates .
that crack .
theres light coming from behind those rocks .
maybe its a hidden room .
about damn time we find some treasure .
shit !
i thought this place was supposed to be loaded with treasure .
its probably all in one room deep in this tomb .
if he is as greedy as weve been told , then he would want to keep a close eye on it .
shit , arent we deep enough already ?
weve been walking for hours .
certainly feels that way .
well , lets check it out .
they both head over and inspect the crack .
youre right .
there is something back there .
and i think i hear voices or sounds , something .
you hear it ?
tripwire leans forward with his ear to the wall , yes , i hear something too .
how you figure we get in ?
there should be a switch of some sort close by .
as explode searches for the switch , i hope the damn king is in here .
you think you seen me mad before .
tripwire winces at the thought , scary .
you dont know the half .
i found it !
tripwire adds in a cautious tone , well , at least i think i did .
who knows with this place ?
lets just be ready for anything when i press this .
explode nods in agreement .
tripwire puts his hand back in between a pair of rocks on the wall .
the crack grows as the wall separates , revealing a well lit room .
also , something that is hard to believe inside this tomb .
are you seeing the same thing im seeing ?
asked a stunned tripwire .
are you seeing beautiful half naked bitches ?
yup .
then yes , i am too .
this good size room is elegantly decorated .
purple , blue and golden curtains cover the walls .
expensive persian like rugs are laid out in an orderly fashion .
torches are placed throughout the room , so that no crack or cranny is hidden in darkness .
one of the ladies is playing a musical instrument that hums a comforting and inviting melody .
a long sectional like sofa is the centerpiece of the room .
several feet in front of it is a metal stand with a dish on it .
its burning something scentless .
on the couch are several beautiful ladies in belly dancer outfits .
what do we have here , a brothel or something ?
explode asked with a huge grin .
naw , probably more like the kings personal play toys .
as you probably already know , it wasnt uncommon for kings to have many women on the side .
what you talking about , poindexter ?
thats not uncommon nowadays .
the women motion for them to come closer .
explode starts walking over toward them .
tripwire cautiously asks , how do we know this is not a trap ?
a trap ?
come on now , if we cant handle a few unarmed women , what kind of men are we ?
plus how many traps have you ever came across that were hidden like this room ?
two of the women come and grab tripwire gently by the arm .
well , that does make sense .
that would defeat the purpose of a trap if the intruder couldnt find it .
already with his shirt off and barely visible underneath three women on the couch , explode laughs , exactly .
and if i cant fuck up king foymama , i can at least fuck a few of his women right ?
lying on the other end of the sectional , tripwire states , youre one weird man .
he starts to make out with one of the ladies while another licks his ear .
explode hollers , oh baby !
so you like it rough too , huh ?
tripwire manages to get un lip locked long enough to say , youre truly are a weird one for sure .
hey , we cant be here long .
were still on a time schedule .
explode , who is virtually covered by half naked women , doesnt respond .
tripwire notices one of the women with her hand down explodes unzipped pants .
oops , sorry never mind .
handle your business big guy .
shadow steps into the room through the same opening leading to the main hallway .
unnoticed by any of the participants in this game of sexual twister , she draws with each hand a dagger from each side of her hips .
these daggers are longer than most standard ones .
what she sees is not what explode and tripwire sees .
shadow is unaffected by the incense and sees the true scenery .
there are torches but no curtains , no rugs , no sofa and definitely no beautiful women .
instead there is a carved out rock shaped similar to a sofa and hideous humanoid monsters licking , sucking and biting at various parts of their hapless victims .
shadow leaps forward at the ones on explode first .
she stabs one in the back of the head killing it instantly .
another one looks at her as she cut its throat like a hot knife through butter .
the one who was playing the music earlier , but is now on explode , jumps up and tries to escape and knocks over the incense stand .
shadow throws one of the daggers at the fleeing she beast and nails her in the back of her neck .
it lets out a terrible shriek .
this yell grabs the attention of the two on tripwire and tripwire himself .
what the hell was that ?
he looks over in the direction the noise came from , to see the woman beast looking half woman and half something else not recognizable .
as he looks at the ground the carpets seem to disappear right in front of his eyes .
whats going on ?
and whats up with the carpets ?
he looks up at the woman on top of him to find a hideous beast .
aghhhh !
he reaches up to protect himself .
thats when he finds out that hes missing two of his fingers as blood drips down onto his face .
he screams again .
this time louder as the reality of that his fingers have been gnawed off sinks in and the anesthetic effect of the incense wears off .
the head of the beast on top of him but near his legs , flies off thanks to shadows short sword .
tripwire manages to get the beast directly on top of him off .
shadow slits it up its backside .
most of the creatures vitals spill out onto the floor .
tripwire is hysterically screaming and trying to take in everything that just happened .
shadow walks over to the dead beast by the turned over pedestal and removes her dagger from its head .
she wipes it off with the rags the beast wore .
she replaces the dagger back in its resting place .
she repeats this cleaning routine until all her weapons are back into place .
tripwire has finally stopped screaming .
he looks over at explode and starts screaming again as he finds hes faired a lot better than explode , the top of his head had been eaten away .
tripwire has been reduced to an infant like stage as he sits crying and talking incoherently .
shadow walks over and visually inspects explodes body .
she does the same to tripwire .
afterwards , she exits the way she entered , leaving tripwire by himself .
chapter sixteen hows your arm ?
considering theres two chunks missing ?
not too bad .
so you think anyone else has died ?
yes .
im sure of it .
how can you be so sure ?
cause if it werent for luck , you would be walking this path alone right now .
hack stops walking as he realizes just how correct rugged is .
hey hack .
i bet you this is why the host sent us in the first place .
he knew this was a death trap .
i wouldnt be surprised if he was paid to gather us and kill us .
what ?
why would anyone want us dead ?
thats absurd .
is it ?
then can you explain why he didnt send kain with us ?
youve seen with your own two eyes what that guy is capable of .
his creepiness rivals this tomb .
maybe kain is just what he appears to be .
hired muscle .
hired creepy muscle , but just that and not an adventurer .
yeah , whatever .
believe what you want .
well , i do believe that someone does want us dead and that someone is king foymama .
the villager sits down as these two continue to talk .
no , he needs to get back up .
we need to pick the pace .
hack stated .
rugged motions for their captive to get back up .
he does .
as soon as they start walking , bebida leaps out of the darkness of a side tunnel .
hes wielding a knife .
die , motherfuckers !
he lunges toward the villager who was up ahead of them .
bebida cuts a slight gash across his exposed stomach .
the villager screams and once again is on the floor , balled up in fright .
bebida doesnt seem to recognize him as a non threat .
bebida readies himself for another lunge .
bebida , what the hell is wrong with you , man ?
hack demanded at the top of his lungs .
the familiarity of hacks voice grabs his attention .
rugged pulls out his machete and readies himself for possible combat .
bebida looks up at hack , then back down at the scared villager .
he looks back at hack , then over at the poised rugged .
bebida came back to his senses , you better put that away before you get hurt ...
he notices ruggeds wound and continues , ... again .
rugged stands his ground and keeps his weapon out .
bebida puts his away .
hack asks bebida , what was all that for ?
theyre all dead .
who ?
xiona and razz both ?
yes .
but how ?
rugged says as he puts away his machete , let me guess , you drank their blood ?
bebida fires back , nope , i like my blood like i like my wine , old man ... aged !
they both glare at each other .
hack interrupts , no , seriously , what happened to them ?
bebida explains , xiona got her wish .
she found taxa and thats the end of that story .
hack used the cavern wall to brace himself as he sulks in disbelief .
and i believe both of the twins are dead .
i know razz is .
he drowned by one of these fucking traps .
i believe zarr drowned too or was eaten by something .
rugged is now curious , eaten ?
yes , razz was saying something about something in the water and to get them off his brother .
that they were everywhere .
strange .
tell me about it .
so wheres the rest ?
are they alive ?
any sign of them ?
hack answers , we dont know .
we havent seen anyone besides you .
bebida notices gladiator is missing , and gladiator ?
their faces answered his question .
damn it !
something really strange is going on in here .
well , have you seen shadow ?
nope .
you ?
yeah , she came and did some amazing acrobatic flips across a pit of lava .
nothing too big .
what ?
yeah , you heard me right .
shes some kind of super woman or something but she did help us cross the lava .
tripwire says as he walks up an adjacent corridor toward them .
and she saved me !
the party now turns their attention to the other lone survivor who has just arrived .
bebida asks , so you the only survivor too ?
unfortunately , and you ?
same .
what happened to them ?
bebida re explains their deaths , so what happened to explode and zarr ?
both eaten .
one by piranhas in a lake and the other by some indescribable beast like women .
so you were the lucky one ?
hack asked .
not too lucky .
he then shows the group his missing fingers .
ouch !
bebida asks , so you saw shadow too ?
yeah , she saved my life .
how ?
please dont ask .
the other three men look at each other and have no clue why not , but they all let the subject drop .
tripwire asks the group , so ... any treasure yet ?
everyone shakes their head no .
what about you ?
he responded with the same answer .
frustrated and in pain , rugged vents , this is a wild goose chase !
naw , i dont think so .
shadow is looking for something real hard .
you should have seen the way she looked us up and down back at the lava room .
come to think of it .
she did look at me and what remained of explode , up and down pretty good also .
like she was trying to see if we had something .
hack deducts , well , whatever shes looking for , she hasnt found it yet .
otherwise she would have left by now .
i know i would have .
out of nowhere and off the subject , bebida asks tripwire , hey , didnt you say there was a lake in here ?
yeah , so ?
dont you find it kinda odd that in a man made tomb theres a lake and a deep ass lava pit ?
rugged answers , its possible , but highly unlikely considering that this area has never been known for volcanic activity .
my point exactly .
so what is really going on in here ?
as each assess in their own minds this unlikelihood , all eyes slowly turn toward the only descendant of the king in their presence .
hes been sitting on the floor quietly during their conversation .
hack looks at rugged , he mentioned something earlier about a curse .
ask him about it in more detail .
something isnt right in here .
rugged leans down toward the villager and starts speaking in his native tongue .
they exchange words several times .
rugged raises suddenly , shit , so thats whats going on .
i shouldve known it .
what ?
the story about the demon sealing the tomb is only partially correct .
it seems that the demon also agreed to help protect the kings treasure from outsiders forever .
bebida asks , so , we are going up against a demon ?
tripwire is visibly upset , i knew we were going up against something supernatural and not just traps .
it makes so much more sense now .
damn it !
were screwed .
rugged agrees .
how are we supposed to beat a demon with the power to seal a whole damn tomb in time ?
hack calmly states .
i truly doubt the demon is still here .
tripwire holds up his hand where two fingers used to be , his damn traps are !
thats why we need to stay together .
so its good that we found each other .
now we can get our shit together and find some treasure .
they all agree , but seemingly half heartedly .
they start back down the hallway deeper into the tunnel .
as they make their way around a bend , a dark figure leaps out of the darkness ahead of them .
rugged yanks out his machete with his good limb .
tripwire pulls out his knife .
everyones stopped .
hack notices first .
its shadow !
she was poised and ready to attack until she noticed it was them .
she puts her sword away and walks toward them .
the party stands like they expect her to stop and start up a conversation .
she doesnt .
she walks past them like they didnt even exist .
whats going on ?
are we invisible now ?
she didnt even look us over .
tripwire agrees with bebida .
youre right .
she must have found what she was looking for .
he decided to show his appreciation for her saving his life .
thank you !
shes far enough down the hallway that shes starting to fade in with the shadows .
it dawned on rugged that their quest might be over .
hey , did you find the stone ?
she kept on walking until she finally disappeared into the darkness .
hack yells a heart filled , isnt this a mission for you ?
shadow we need you !
we cant do this without you !
please !
all three of the other men look at him as if hes lost his mind .
he explains , didnt you hear bebida say something about her being able to do all kinds of amazing flips ?
and she saved tripwire from something that easily killed explode while eating your fingers .
and did any of you notice that she didnt even have one scratch on her ?
not even dirt ?
while we look like the remains of some horror movie .
he paused for this to sink in .
he continues , bebida almost lost his mind , tripwire lost two fingers , rugged almost lost his life and arm twice and the villager loses his balance almost every time something happens .
bebida adds .
and you cant fight .
exactly my point .
we truly do need her to help us .
we probably wont survive this without her .
the party was so deep into their discussion that none of them had noticed that shadow had come back and was standing only a few feet away .
the villager was the first one to notice and he stumbles backward and falls .
they all turn quickly to find her standing behind them .
the men get a good laugh at the villager falling once again .
so , i take it this means , yes you will join us ?
hack asked shadow who is standing face to face with him .
he stares into where he thinks her eyes are behind the mask .
she says nothing and starts walking toward the inner part of the tomb again .
bebida says , i guess that means yes , mr .
smooth talker .
they all head deeper into the tomb .
chapter seventeen for the first time , shadow walks with the others and they are exploring as a group .
rugged and hack lead with the villager shadow , tripwire , and bebida make up the rear .
tripwire tries to make small talk with her .
so , you found what you were looking for , didnt you ?
shadow doesnt respond .
tripwire tries again , so ummm ... how was it that the trap you saved me from didnt affect you ?
again nothing .
she keeps walking .
already thin on patience and growing tired of tripwires persistence , bebida says damn it !
havent you realize that shes not going to answer you ?
shit , she probably cant even answer you .
cant answer me ?
what are you talking about ?
frustrated and in no mood to explain , bebida decides to respond with the hope that this will shut him up .
its rumored that the japanese mafia cut out the tongues of their ninja spies and assassins so they cant talk about the family .
thats so stupid .
shadow suddenly stops and turns toward bebida .
even though he cant see her face , he knows when hes being stared down .
see , even she cant believe the dumb shit you just said .
hack and rugged notice that they had stopped .
whats going on back there ?
shadow turns back forward and starts walking again .
bebida is confused on exactly what happened .
what was that all about ?
you probably pissed her off .
oh well .
everyone starts walking again .
hack asks rugged , what do you think that was all about back there ?
no clue and dont care .
they enter what appears to be a new room .
hack says , there you have it .
a room finally .
rugged looks around , not exactly a room , more like a bigger hallway .
youre never happy , are you ?
im happy there are no statues in here .
hack laughs out loud .
shadow , bebida , and tripwire are just now entering the same room .
they are about 100 feet behind them .
after they are about twenty feet inside , the ceiling behind collapses and a huge smoothly rounded boulder drops down .
its several tons and shaped like a giant marble .
this rock is almost a perfect fit to the room .
bebida yells shit !
and were on a slope too !
rugged says to hack , theres a door ahead .
we can make it , lets go !
along with the captive they head toward the doorway .
shadow and company are running toward the door also , but the boulder is gaining on them and scraping against the walls as it approaches .
bebida notices recesses along the wall that the stone didnt rub up against and each are just big enough to hold one person .
we arent going to make it to the door but see those spots along the wall .
i think those are the rooms fail safe spots .
the rock cant hit them .
theyre too deep .
when they approach the next series of recesses , each one of them settles into different spots .
as the massive rock rolls past them , it doesnt touch them but the weight of the rock activates the trap door in the recesses .
all three fall backwards and slide down long and winding chutes .
meanwhile hack , rugged and the villager try to outrun the rapidly approaching boulder .
rugged yells at the villager .
hurry up !
hack is in the lead , easily clearing the doorway and out of sheer panic , he runs through the doorway at full speed .
rugged , trying to fight off the pain in his swinging and damaged appendage continues to run .
the villager seems to have taken his advice as he passed rugged .
rugged looks back to see the boulder is closer than he thought and looks forward to find the doorway farther than he thought .
he shuts out the pain and musters all he has left to avoid becoming a human pancake .
seconds after the villager goes through the doorway , rugged dives through as the boulder slams into the door .
it stops the massive boulder and to ruggeds surprise the doorway stayed mostly intact .
wiping away beads of sweat from his head , whew that was too close .
way too close !
rugged exclaimed .
chapter eighteen tripwire yells as he slides down the dirt chute .
he lands flat on his face on a dirt floor .
ouch !
then he hears two more thuds , one right after each other .
he tries to see if it was bebida and shadow but the room is pitch black and there is no visible light anywhere to be found .
shadow ?
bebida ?
you guys here too ?
yeah , im here .
replied bebida .
is shadow ?
like i know .
i can barely make out my own hand directly in front of my face .
and you know shes a mute .
well , i believe the other thud i heard was her .
where are we at ?
i have a feeling somewhere we dont want to be .
me too .
both of them draw their weapons .
tripwire suggests , hey , i got an idea so that none of us are left behind .
you follow my voice .
that way we can find each other and help each other get out of this place .
okay , just keep talking .
i know youre good at that .
fuck off !
but even tripwire cant avoid laughing at what bebida said about him .
shadow , i know you can hear me .
you should do the same thing , so we can all get out of here together .
hey trip , you know what i just thought of .
what ?
what if theres someone or something bad in here .
its gon na find us by our voices too .
tripwires pleasant mood disappears , he realizes that bebida is correct .
he also realizes that he has no choice .
youre right , so you need to get over here asap .
bebida stops when he sees to his left , what appears to be a pair of red eyes glaring at him .
what the hell is that ?
tripwire doesnt see it , what is what ?
what are you talking about ?
the eyes disappeared .
you didnt see that ?
see what ?
we are not alone in here .
and i dont mean shadow either .
arm yourself already did .
good .
keep talking but keep your eyes peeled .
talk about what ?
i dont know , recite the fucking alphabet for all i care , but keep talking because something is in here with us .
well have a better chance together .
tripwire starts the alphabet and the whole time frantically swinging his blade around .
bebida is trying to follow his voice , when another pair of red eyes opens , directly in front of him this time .
you dont see that ?
come on you got ta see that !
im not hallucinating !
maybe you are because i aint seeing anything but darkness .
and that is how explode and me got tricked , by some hallucinogenic in the air .
it was scent less too .
this theory doesnt comfort bebida at all , especially when the second and third pair of eyes appears , also in front of him .
finally , a fourth pair appears to his right .
im not hallucinating shit !
bebida starts to feverishly swing his knife in front of him .
come on , motherfuckers !
im ready for you !
tripwire looks in direction of the yelling but still sees nothing .
damn it man , youre spooking me out .
knock it off , theres nothing here !
bebida screams in pain , then yells , take that !
an eerie squeal shoots across the room .
oh shit !
there is something in here .
hang in there .
im on the way !
tripwire yells as he runs blindly in the darkness toward the sound of blood squirting , teeth tearing flesh and steel meeting flesh .
bebida exchanges screams with squeals .
there is total silence .
this sudden and eerie silence makes tripwire slow his pace to a slow walk .
bebida ?
nothing .
bebida ?
you okay ?
nothing .
tripwire keeps walking toward where he believed he heard the ruckus .
that is until he trips over something .
he falls flat on his face again .
as he put his hand down to stand up , it lands in a puddle .
afraid that the puddle is blood but with a need to confirm it , he lifts his hand right in front of his face .
its covered in blood .
he figures its most likely bebidas .
as he lowers his hand from his face , he sees the last thing he will ever see .
a pair of red eyes glaring at him , directly in front of him .
chapter nineteen rugged , exhausted , stands up and says , man , how in the world are we supposed to get back out now with that rock blocking the exit ?
he directed that question at hack who he believed was standing behind him .
the villager tugs on rugged s injured arm , ow !
what the hell are you doing ?
he turns around to see that hacks momentum must have carried him right into a giant spider web .
amazed , rugged says , wow !
this has to be the worlds biggest web ever constructed .
hack struggles to move around and mumbles something incoherent .
hes stuck face first into the web .
well at least i know youre still alive , says rugged as he cuts away with his machete , youre very lucky the creature that created this wasnt home , otherwise you would be either devoured or full of some kind of body numbing , and probably fatal substance .
almost on cue , the villager starts to scream , how come i have the feeling i dont even need to look to know why hes screaming .
once his head is free from the web , hack yells , look at the size of that thing !
its coming damn it !
get me out of here !
chop !
chop !
chop !
a giant black spider is making its way down from the top of the spider web , where it was resting .
rugged cuts the last piece holding hack up and he falls to the floor .
lets get out of here !
yells hack .
rugged replies , to where ?
the exit is blocked and i dont see another way out !
the spider gets closer as it edges down the massive web .
the villager once again tugs on ruggeds injured arm .
ouch !
not now !
the villager then tugs on hacks arm , hack turns , what ?
the villager says something that hack doesnt understand but he does figure out that the captive is trying to point out something by his gestures .
hack looks at where hes pointing and notices a hole behind a bush that might be an exit .
hack yells to rugged , look , lets try that hole unless you think you can take out this spider ?
rugged replies by heading to the hole .
hack and the prisoner follow safely behind .
chapter twenty in a dark tunnel , a block of wall is rotated revealing a secret panel .
emerging out of it is a battle worn shadow .
she staggers out of the darkness , into the dimly lit passageway .
she staggers and uses the opposite wall to brace herself from falling .
her outfit is torn and ripped in numerous spots .
from these exposed parts , visible are claw marks covered in blood , most of it greenish in color .
her facemask had been ripped at the bottom exposing a section of her face from the bottom of her nose down .
the back of her pull on mask is only partially tucked in with her dirty blonde hair sticking out .
she tries to walk down the corridor with a firm grip still on her two daggers , as if she was expecting a fight .
both daggers are covered in green blood .
every few steps she either stops to gain balance or use a wall for leverage .
she spits out a mouthful of blood .
despite looking as if shes in bad shape and experiencing unimaginable pain , the exposed part of her face shows no sign of it .
one of her sleeves , almost completely torn off exposes an elaborate half gauntlet on her wrist .
she leans against a rock , once again in effort to gain balance .
after shaking her head in what looks like an effort to shake out the cobwebs , she continues stumbling down the hallway leaving a very visible blood trail .
she tries to lean against another wall , but the wall was a fake .
it was made out of some brittle substance that crumbled easily under her weight , sending her to the floor of a new found room .
she tries to stand but can only manage to get to one knee before she can regain her senses .
she looks forward .
it seems that she has found a hidden oasis , complete with palm like trees with a shallow pool between .
the pool starts to bubble .
shadow grips the dagger that is still in her hand , the one she didnt drop when she raised to one knee .
the water starts to rise and form into a shape , the shape of a woman .
a very soothing voice emanates from it .
i am julia , a water elemental of wishes .
welcome , traveler .
shadow has her head locked in the direction of julia but doesnt respond to her .
i sense you are in great pain .
unfortunately , im under the control of the one who summoned me .
i can still grant you a single wish as long as it does not concern my master , the treasures of this tomb or your life force , which i must regretfully drain once your wish is granted .
shadow has mustered up enough energy to stand fully erect .
she readies herself for battle but then suddenly collapses .
she lays motionless on the sandy floor .
poor child .
julia said .
then she dissipates back into the pool in which she came .
chapter twenty one rugged complains , weve been crawling through this damn crawl space for a good minute now .
yeah , but it beats becoming a human fly waiting to be devoured .
hack is following right behind rugged .
yes , but all this hands and knees stuff is killing my arm .
hey , wheres the villager ?
did you leave him behind ?
no , hes right here behind me .
why didnt you put him between us ?
he could have escaped .
and go where ?
back to bram stokers version of charlotte 's web ?
i see your point .
rugged notices a light off in the distance .
hey , finally a place where we can probably stand up .
rugged comes to a small square exit with a golden color cloth covering it .
he stops .
hack asks , what you waiting for ?
rugged shakes his head , then moves the curtain and crawls through .
once all three are out of the crawl space , each one has a look of disbelief .
rugged speaks out first .
we finally found it !
he almost has to squint his eyes because of the brightness of the room thanks to the light reflecting off the massive amounts of gold piles .
hack smiling says , so it does exist ?
there must be billions of dollars in treasures and artifacts in here .
rugged has already started to dig into a pile and emerges wearing a crown and holding a scepter .
im the new king !
hack laughs then says in a serious tone , hey , we need to find that damn stone of sunfire .
its a fiery red ruby embedded into a necklace .
looking around the room and at its numerous , massive piles of wealth , rugged replies , there must be at least one hundred red rubies in those piles .
i doubt that it would be in any of these piles .
remember ?
foymama collected treasures and artifacts that had special powers like the stone of sunfire .
so it must be over there .
hack points at a row of chests , and other royal boxes lined up by a golden throne .
seated on the throne is a solid gold statue of the king .
talk about vain .
both men head over to the row of chests and start opening them .
so that is what he looked like huh ?
rugged asked .
yeah , pretty close .
well , at least as the old portraits of him portrayed him .
pretty mean looking dude .
and was pretty mean too .
hey , i just thought about something .
how the hell are we supposed to get out of here with the treasures and our lives ?
well , we both are pretty knowledgeable .
maybe we can find something that with the power to protect us .
like johans stone of protection .
who knows ?
its worth a try .
they start digging again through the various boxes .
the head of the golden statue turns toward them and frowns .
they dont notice it or the fact that its starting to stand up out of its seat .
hey what is this ?
why does it look so familiar ?
hack asked as he held up a bracelet .
i believe its the ...
rugged started to say until he noticed the approaching and angry looking golden king .
look out !
hack didnt move fast enough as the top half of his head is cut off cleanly .
oh shit !
rugged screamed as he leaped away and pulled out his machete .
the golden king gives pursuit .
rugged swings his machete and hits the statute on the arm and the blade breaks without leaving a mark .
damn .
walking backwards , rugged trips over a treasure chest .
realizing that his life is about to end , rugged shrugs .
oh well .
he closes his eyes right before the statue slams its swords tip through his heart .
the statue pulls out the sword that is dripping wet with blood .
it turns and heads toward the last remaining intruder .
the villager , who was still over by the covered entrance , drops down to the ground and balls up into a fetal position .
shaking and crying , the villager watches helplessly as the golden statue of the king approaches .
the statue stops in front of him and lifts the mighty golden sword high above its head .
the villager screams and covers his face as the king brings the blade slicing through the air toward him .
shaking feverishly and crying for what seems to him a long time , he starts to wonder if hes dead .
he peeks though his fingers and has to squint immediately from the sun glaring down on him .
with a confused look of disbelief , the villager slowly spreads his fingers and comes to find that hes lying down outside .
its a bright sunny day .
he stares forward to find the jungle in front of him .
no sign of the tomb .
he looks down at his chest .
the stone of awareness rests in its usual place around his neck .
completely confused and starting to wonder if he daydreamed all this , he wipes off beads of sweat that are forming on his forehead .
in his native tongue , he says out loud , was it a dream ?
did i pass out ?
must have been the heat .
he turns around to head home and falls to the ground in shock as he discovers all the non functioning equipment that was left behind when they first entered the tomb .
he continues to stare at the equipment and shake in fear .
isbn 978 1 105 48021 8 road to recovery by tony wilson copyright 2012 tony wilson smashwords edition licence notes thank you for downloading this free ebook .
although this is a free book , it remains the copyrighted property of the author , and may not be reproduced , copied and distributed for commercial or non commercial purposes .
if you enjoyed this book , please encourage your friends to download their own copy at smashwords.com where they can also discover the other works by this author .
thank you for your support .
the moral right of tony wilson to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted .
discover the rest of the titles in this trilogy by tony wilson onward and upward above and beyond https www.smashwords.com profile view tonyymelvawilson cover designed by tony wilson table of contents click on any chapter heading to return to the table of contents title page licence page chapter 1 chapter 2 chapter 3 chapter 4 chapter 5 chapter 6 chapter 7 chapter 8 chapter 9 chapter 10 chapter 11 chapter 12 chapter 13 chapter 14 chapter 15 chapter 16 chapter 17 chapter 18 chapter 19 chapter 20 chapter 21 chapter 22 chapter 23 chapter 24 chapter 25 chapter 26 chapter 27 chapter 28 chapter 29 chapter 30 chapter 31 chapter 32 chapter 33 chapter 34 authors notes chapter 1 it was supposed to be another wonderful day in paradise , so why on earth am i laying flat on my back in a helicopter when sheila and i are supposed to be on a short break in our motor home , perhaps it had something to do with all the tubes stuffed down my throat .
let me think , i remember sheila my wife of 32 years , bonnie and clyde our yorkshire terriers of five years and i andrew michaels of 55 years arriving in the pouring rain at the caravan site just north of granada , after a pleasant drive down from our villa of 5 years .
we are , or as it would now seem , were , going to meet up with some of our friends that we regularly seem to bump into on out travels , any excuse for g t. the excuse this time i am in serious need of some r r as i slipped a disc three weeks ago , a bit feeble as excuses go but definitely good for the sympathy vote .
funny , i can not remember meeting up with them .
with perfect timing it had started to rain just as we arrived at the site it could at least have waited for another half an hour , and i remember dutifully checking into the office and then plugging winnie into her new home i call her that because she is a winnebago , not just because she is poo coloured .
leaving our two now very muddy hounds in their travelling cage we headed out into the rain in search of a cup of tea , or perhaps something slightly stronger .
as we walked passed a nearby pitch we noticed that the owners of a rather nice for nice read large caravan were having a considerable amount of trouble positioning their box on wheels on their sloping , and by now very wet and slippery pitch .
as we consider ourselves to be fairly helpful sort of people i offered them our services , bad move .
from what i remember of them they seemed to be a rather quiet , retiring sort of couple , the sort that i imagined would probably have preferred to do all the pushing and shoving on their own , but even they had come to realise that in this rain , and with the sloping terrain , they were not going to move it anywhere with just the two of them .
sheila and i opted for the rear of their caravan , and expending a fair amount of our valuable energy the four of us finally got the thing moving in generally the right direction , but unfortunately the rain , mud and finally the wind then decided to enter into the equation , and things moved on quite quickly after that .
the caravan started to slide , and then he the owner of the delinquent caravan decided to slip , and after first banging his head on a conveniently placed rock , slid gracefully under it , with his head strategically placed for one of the wheels to run squarely over it now was about the time that i should have remembered why the doctor had ordered me away .
whilst trying to stop the sliding caravan from crushing his head my tender back decided that it was not really ready for such abuse and i had that all too familiar feeling of pain , followed by the sensation of my spine wanting to bend in two backwards .
i knew that i wasnt going to stop this man made titan in my condition but summoning up some unknown inner strength i managed to pull the rear of the van around , just far enough for it to collide with a rather large tree .
i suppose the logic behind my action was that this poor soul would prefer to have a dented caravan rather than a flat head .
all went well until too late i realised that i was between the immovable tree and the careening caravan .
at moments like that i think you are supposed to have your whole life flash before you , wrong , all i could think was i hope sheila will be alright driving winnie back home on her own and now i am laying on my back in a helicopter , wonder where sheila is .
i then decided that it was a good time to take a little nap .
five years ago we took the plunge and went for early retirement .
both children had gone off to do other things in the world so we sold the house and family business , and after settling all our debts and a few of the childrens we had enough left over to go on a much deserved once in a lifetime cruise , and purchase an idyllic three bed roomed luxury villa .
it came complete with swimming pool and jacuzzi and is situated close to a small village fifty kilometres inland from alicante just far enough away from the coast for us to be in among the real spanish , and away from the summer crowds .
two years later , bored to tears and not wanting to get into the g ts at 12 00 routine , we blew a chunk of our savings on an american motor home .
we promoted doris , our columbian limpiadora cleaner , who helps sheila around the villa for a few hours each week , to jef del casa boss of the house and she now regularly looks after the villa and pool for us with a little help from husband pedro as we spend more and more time away succumbing to the wander lust .
in fact in the past 3 years we have covered most of spain and portugal , plus a fair amount of france and italy , and meeting some fascinating people on the way .
a week among the olive groves , rolling green countryside and convivial company was just what the doctor ordered , literally , as i had slipped the disc whilst cleaning the pool and apparently i now need to get out and about again and take some light exercise .
for some strange reason walking to the car and winding my own watch dont constitute exercise .
the next time i woke i found myself on terra firma with a rather elderly gentleman in a white coat trying to talk to me in spanish , stupid man , didnt he know that i was english everyone should speak my language shouldnt they ?
if they didnt then all i had to do was wave my hands and shout louder then they would of course understand me .
then it slowly dawned on me that i could neither wave my hands or any other part of my anatomy for that matter nor even whisper any profanities at him , damn those tubes .
i then guiltily wished that sheila and i had carried on with those interminable spanish lessons .
being a self made man and proud of it i didnt even know what a conjugated verb was in english so how could it be of any possible use to me in spanish !
time for another nap , hope i can sleep alright tonight .
what turned out to be five days later i slowly realised that someone was holding my hand , it of course would be my sheila , she was always there for me , no doubt about it then pain , she him it was sticking what turned out to be a new cannula into the back of my hand , apparently the previous one had just blocked .
not my problem , go away and molest someone else , i want to talk to my wife i tried to scream .
there was no sign of sheila but as i looked frantically around i was greeted by the equally pleasing sight of alice , our very beautiful and talented violin playing daughter standing beside the bed .
how had she got here so fast ?
i thought , concorde was no longer flying , sheila must be getting me a coffee , time for another nap .
the next time i woke it was dark , with just a dim light glowing above my bed , my bed ?
i dont have a light over my bed , dim or otherwise .
it then slowly started to come back to me , the rain , the caravan , the mud , the stranger falling under the wheel , and the lack of sheila in the helicopter .
where is sheila , i want to see my wife i tried to croak , and the blood started to turn to ice in my veins .
alice woke with a start she had been catnapping on the recliner chair beside the bed , and throwing off a blanket she was quickly sat on the side of my bed .
gently taking my hand in hers she started coming out with all the usual platitudes , shush , go back to sleep , take it easy , dont move , well talk more later , but it was obvious even to a mere male like me that she had been crying big time .
she tried to calm me down but to no avail , then i tried to sit up and lash out , at anything , or anyone , i wanted my wife , my lovely beautiful always there for me , wife , and i want her now !
nurses came running , a doctor came running , and a needle was slid into the cannula , and just as i was slipping off into blissful unconsciousness , in the half light i could have sworn that i saw my sheila silhouetted in the doorway .
she was dressed in white , waving , and there was a strange glowing light behind her , oh well time to sort that one out another day .
this time it was daylight when i woke , and i was securely supported by straps and pillows so that i could not move , and was sufficiently pleased with myself to realise that i was on medication big time .
alice was sitting quietly in the now upright recliner , and i had never seen her looking so sad , not even when snowball her angora rabbit had finally gone to be with jesus .
sheila was definitely right she was very beautiful , in a delicate sort of way , but we also knew that behind that slight exterior there was a tough little cookie lurking .
robin , our veterinarian son , who a few days after the solemn ceremony with snowball had wanted for some strange reason to dig the poor animal back up , just so that he could have a quick look inside , and whose long suffering girlfriend couldnt even drag him away from his patients for a much needed naughty weekend , stood quietly behind her , and it then slowly sank into my drug befuddled mind that something had happened that day , and my children were dreading having to tell me .
what happen to her i croaked , grasping the bull by the horns , i realised that no matter how dreadful i felt i was still their father and must look after my children , it was not for them to break such bitter news to me .
between them they explained to me that on that fateful day , after i had passed out the caravan wheel had unfortunately caught mr albright our intrepid caravanner on his neck , but had then quickly released him again as the van pivoted around me and my tree and their mother , who had been pulling on the other corner , was spun into a nearby picnic table , which winded her , and gave her a nasty pain in the chest .
the paramedics quickly arrived , and first attended to me and mr albright , but after we were stabilised one of them then checked a distraught sheila over .
he suspected that she may have cracked a few ribs , but unfortunately there was not enough room in the air ambulance for all of us so she would have to travel by road ambulance as a patient no arguing .
once i was safely airborne he gave her a sedative to ease the pain , and with lights flashing and sirens blaring they set off for the hospital .
about 10 minutes into the journey she died , without any warning her aorta ruptured .
robin tried to assure me that she wouldnt have felt a thing .
nobody could have done anything to save her he went on , but i found that small consolation for the meaning of my life ending .
as i was being admitted , the hospital had found a battered business card of an abagado solicitor in my wallet it was fortunately my abagado , vicente .
the hospital contacted him , and as he had previously sorted out our spanish wills he had all the details on alice robin to hand .
he quickly rang robin , and with his help they were both in spain within 4 hours he even met them at the airport .
vicente also set in motion the procedure for sheilas cremation , which took place two days later .
we had both stated in our wills that this was our preferred choice and alice , who attended the service with vicente , was particularly surprised at the turn out .
apparently our local english radio station had covered the story , and word had quickly spread .
over the next few days alice robin brought me up to speed what a horrible saying on what had happened to me .
my recently slipped disc had taken a turn for the worse whilst i had been trying to manhandle the caravan , and it had crumbled .
surgeons had done what they could , managing to remove most of the shattered disc during the second of my operations , but unfortunately the pieces that remained were far too close to my spinal cord for them to attempt removal .
it would require specialists on a far higher pay grade too remove those splinters .
the corner of the caravan had crushed my chest , damaging several vital organs , and doing something very nasty to my spleen before leaving me to slump to the ground , so my first operation had been to try and resolve some of these issues , but unfortunately with only very limited success , apparently i was quite a mess inside .
if that was not bad enough , when i had briefly come round after my second operation robin insisted that id had enough medication inside me to render a medium sized cart horse comatose , with all the moving around i tried to do i had somehow twisted my spine slightly , driving some of the remaining splinters even closer to my spinal cord and temporarily paralysing myself , hence a third operation , and all the straps pillows .
after getting the use of my legs back for me the surgeons then tidied up the needlework , and as i was now in a stable condition , they called it a day .
apparently three operations in two days are not very good for you .
one thing that neither of them got around to explaining to me though was when they were going to repair my broken heart .
roger jeannette our free cuppa friends had visited me in hospital the day following the accident although i was still well and truly out of it and explained to robin what had happened , and then went on to tell him that after o.king it with a distraught sheila they had persuaded a paramedic to lift the motor home keys out of my jacket pocket so they could attend to bonnie and clyde .
both the babies and winnie were now at their home and would all be well looked after until things were sorted out .
over the next twenty four hours about ten days after the accident it seemed to me that the entire senior medical staff of the hospital took turns with a new game of do you want the bad news or the even worse news .
my spleen had gone , my liver and kidneys were just about irreparable , my intestines along with my colon were a mess and to top it all my back was way beyond their scope of expertise , although with the amount of drugs that i was on i wasnt particularly bothered , although it did seem to upset alice and robin , they were still taking it in turns to be at my bedside 24 7 .
a few days later , as i lay there thinking that things couldnt get much worse , i sensed rather than heard someone enter the room .
as my eyes came into focus i saw a pale , thinish man , about my age gazing across at me from a wheelchair .
it didnt need alice to introduce me , this was mr albright , and if i had somehow forgotten his face which i never would , the neck brace and wheelchair were a sure giveaway .
after very stiffly introducing himself , not all of it down to his brace , george albright gingerly shook my hand fortunately all the drips were going into my left arm so that experience was relatively pain free , and after the introductions he thanked me for saving his life .
dont mention it i thought , anyone would have done the same , saved yours , ruined mine fair swap .
i dont remember what i actually said but as alice didnt give me one of her looks , i must have uttered the right responses .
he then enquired about my injuries , although he seemed to know more about them than i did , he had obviously done his homework , well it was his guilt trip , let him enjoy it .
just as i was about to make some feeble excuse about being tired he came to what seemed to be the main event , apparently in some cultures it is customary for the person that saves anothers life to take responsibility for them thereafter .
god i thought , now he wants to sue me surely things cant get any worse , but just as i was about to tell him too politely go away and speak to my solicitor or words to that effect he went on to explain that he wanted to reverse the custom .
he was a very wealthy man , he had more than enough money to last him and his wife for several lifetimes , so it was his wish that as a way of trying to repay me for saving his life , and to compensate me in some small way for my tragic loss he wanted to split his wealth evenly with me 50 50 , just like that , oh and to also arrange for me to receive the best medical treatment that money could buy out of his half of course .
i not so much thought that all my dreams had come true , more get this raving nutcase out of my sight .
i had not only just lost my wife , and nearly my life , but now it seems that i was being forced to lay here and listen to the demented ravings of a deluded , guilt ridden stranger , but i was fortunately saved from doing myself further physical harm by the timely arrival of robin .
hi mr albright he chirped ive just been speaking with the hospital administrator the air ambulance will be here within the hour .
perhaps i had been just a tad hasty in my initial assessment .
chapter 2 george albrights father had been a fairly prosperous doctor , although he only had a small country practice with few real patients , but that didnt seem to be a problem at all in fact it allowed him time to indulge his real passion medical research .
george wasnt exactly sure what that meant but it seemed to keep them in a manner too which they quickly became accustomed .
throughout his formative years george attended private schools to which his father willingly donated heavily to all their causes , new gym , new swimming pool etc .
and he turned out to be one of the fortunate few that didnt have to study very hard to pass exams , it was assumed by all and sundry that he had a natural talent when it came to examinations .
it was also assumed that he would follow in his fathers footsteps , but during his first year at medical college things seemed to change .
no matter how hard he tried to study in between the parties of course , his progress started to seriously flounder , and finally , in desperation , he went to his father , pleading with him to pull a few strings .
the only response he got was work harder , ive done my bit , now its up to you .
this of course made george quickly realise that partying and late nights didnt ensure good exam results , large donations did .
towards the end of his first year george had a phone call , not from family or friends , but from a reporter .
do you have any comment on your fathers dealings with medilux ?
of course he had heard of medilux , his father had been dealing with them , one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the country for years .
he always seemed to be writing reports about one clinical trial or other for them , but having the sense to utter the time honoured words no comment he hung up and then tried to ring his father , first at the family home no reply , he must still be at his surgery no reply there either .
as he was returning to his room he overheard the name medilux mentioned on a neighbouring students television , and standing just outside her door he was informed by a very prim and proper television newscaster that the said company was in turmoil , and members of the board and others were under investigation , for among other things falsifying results of clinical trials .
as the report continued on he began to realise where his familys wealth had come from , and it was certainly not from the small country practice .
george returned to his room , and medicine suddenly didnt seem as interesting as it had done twenty minutes earlier .
even if he did manage to pull his socks up and struggle through all the exams he had a shrewd suspicion that the name dr george albright he had been named after his father , was not going to be synonymous with good medical ethics , but what to do next ?
a couple of acquaintances had recently been extolling the virtues of trading and playing the markets in the big smoke , while at the same time showing off their flash new motors .
this sounded right up his street , and it was , he took to it like the proverbial duck to water and although he didnt realise it at the time his timing was perfect .
one quick phone call and he was on the next train to london , within a couple of days he had a job , within three months he had his own flash motor and within six he was naming his own terms .
a year after that he went for broke , and putting all his eggs into one basket , and committing himself in a big way to new fangled modern technology he became the master of his own destiny .
he started off quite modestly really , no staff to eat up profits , just emerging computers and a rapidly expanding market .
his first million was the hardest that took him almost a year .
the rest the multimillion , the first billion etc .
came quite easily after that .
his father managed to stay out of the courts instead he became a statistic in someone elses court case .
some months earlier , to cut yet more corners he had apparently become a self medicating human guinea pig , using , as it turned out to be , one of the more dubious concoctions that medilux were conducting trials on .
unfortunately , or perhaps fortunately , he succumbed to a very quick , but relatively painless demise poetic justice , and his mother maud survived her husband by no more than 3 months .
george believed that it was not so much that she couldnt live without his father , more she just couldnt live without his money .
having no other surviving relatives george found himself friendless , relative less , and starting to get rich , and as time progressed george did indeed become very , very rich , which could have tended to cause problems for a lesser person .
fame , expensive cars , private jets , begging letters and so forth , but not for our intrepid george , he came across millie , a financial wiz at the local bank .
like himself an only child , with absolutely no interest whatsoever in increasing the worlds population , and sensible about money .
first she fell in love with his bank account , then to everyones surprise she actually fell in love with george , and george reciprocated in kind .
they shared the same values hard work , a love of cutting edge technology , and not spending their gains wantonly .
dont get me wrong they spent some of it , in fact quite a lot of it .
they went on the cruises , not in the best suites , that would have attracted all the attention , rather the nice ones , the ones that bank managers and company directors could afford .
when they flew , yes it was first class , but they never caused a fuss , always keeping in the background , as though they had just been given an upgrade by the airline , in fact georges only passion , outside of his dealings and millie , was flying .
not in the aluminium tubes that passed for mass transport , more the canvas and string of vintage biplanes .
millie , bless her heart , had seen the way her beloved george gazed on those vintage string bags whenever their paths crossed , so realising that his birthday was looming she got her man , a man who could quite literally have almost anything that the modern world could offer , half an hour of history .
it was a thirty minute flight in a tiger moth biplane , operated by a local flying school .
when the pilot was eventually allowed to land , pleading that they really were flying on fumes , george leapt out of the aircraft and made a bee line for the office .
he quickly signed up for a course of flying lessons and promptly climbed back into the by now re fuelled aircraft for his first one , and george found out that he also had an aptitude for something else in life , he sailed , sorry flew through the course with flying colours .
on gaining his wings he took millie up for a celebratory spin literally and after she had filled a conveniently located paper bag she demanded that he return her post haste to terra firma , and then explained to him , in no uncertain terms , that this was his hobby , she was sticking firmly to her embroidery , and so his flying ability rapidly grew as he found more and more time to indulge his hobby , firstly by hiring the tiggy moth at every possible opportunity , then by buying it .
he then came upon the second love of his life or was it his third ?
, a beautifully refurbished bright yellow north american aviation harvard .
this second world war training aircraft only had one set of wings , and no canvas , but he didnt care it had wheels that went up down .
he purchased a quarter share in this wonderful machine people accepted that it was expected that a man with a little money shared such an exotic toy with other likeminded friends he failed to mention to anyone that he had also purchased the other three quarters as well .
but how did george and millie end up with a caravan ?
by the way please dont call her mildred , as in that popular sit com tv show of yester years , george did once and it nearly cost him a divorce .
i wonder if i will ever pluck up the courage to call her the dragon , nah i think not , now back to the question , so how did they end up with a caravan ?
well , on the cruises that they went on they usually met people who turned out to be short term best of buddies , and then went their separate ways , and that suited them both just fine , neither of them were into long term best friends .
they were not anti social , far from it they really did enjoy the company of other people , just in very small doses , and whilst george met quite a few acquaintances as he flew around the countryside enjoying his hobby , millie preferred to stay at home with her embroidery , she really was not in any way shape or form interested in the cylinder head temperature of a passing spitfire .
what they needed was a pastime that involved them both , and so one morning , as they were returning from watching the current must see show that they had both liked the sound of on broadway , they were sitting quietly in the corner of the british airways first class lounge when they overheard a quite well known politician singing the praises of caravanning .
i love it , she was saying , it can be done in comfort you meet the nicest of people , everyone is treated as equal , and if you do find the odd unpleasant person you just up sticks and move site .
this may have just been a typical politician earning her crust on the way back from an international caravanning convention , but , what do you think millie ?
i like the sound of the comfort bit george .
so do i , alright lets give it a try , what have we to lose ?
how about your head george six weeks later they dont hang about , fully kitted out with a new toyota four by four and the latest top of the range caravan , complete with all the must have gadgets , except for one sorry sir , awaiting delivery of the electric mover , we will fit it as soon as you return , they really are very popular you know they went in search of the sun .
they decided to do it the quick way , ferry to santander , a quick overnight stop near toledo they didnt even unhitch the caravan , and then into a rather pleasant sounding site just north of granada , alhambra palace here we come they thought , then came the rains ! ! ! !
chapter 3 as promised the air ambulance arrived within the hour , apparently when you have georges kind of money it does , if you wished to stay in business , and from the seemingly chaotic general hospital we were all moved , robin , alice and i to a superb 5 star hotel that george and millie were staying at , that also just happened to do medical things on the side , and i used to think that bupa was the height of luxury .
first i was shown or rather pushed into my beautifully appointed suite , which consisted of two large interconnecting rooms .
my room had all the medical bits in it thankfully the second was my lounge , for when i was ambulatory .
as i was not at the moment and for a considerable amount of time to come , then perhaps my guests could use it when i was resting , or if they wished to take their meals up here rather than walk all the way to the restaurant .
the menu of course is replaced every day , the matre d , sorry ward manager assured me , god forbid that my visitors should be forced to have beef wellington two days running whilst i was tucking into whatever was flowing down the blue tube .
alice and robin were apparently sharing the suite next door , and their rooms had been equipped with king sized beds , what no lounges for them however will they cope ? , and then , after the pleasantries were over , they started on me with a vengeance , no peace for the wicked .
first i was re examined , re x rayed and re scanned from every conceivable angle , with and without some very strange tasting when they went via my lips fluids flowing through my body , and life slowly started to come back into focus , despite still missing my sheila terribly .
alice and robin gently started to prod me into taking some , not a lot , but some interest in my injuries and treatments , and to that end , a week after i had arrived , they held a case conference .
i didnt particularly enjoy being referred to as a case , but it seemed to be the only way that they could communicate with each other in large numbers .
i was still tucked securely into a bed , but it was now a much nicer bed .
it was more comfortable it looked more like a normal bed , and the sheets were heavenly , i doubt that even sheila would be able to get them crisper , damn it i must stop thinking that way , why must i ?
the panel of experts , made up of more professors senors than i thought could ever physically fit into one room arrived on time .
they introduced themselves and announced to all and sundry what their particular speciality was , it was thus ensured that when billing time came a face could be put to the name , and george , millie , robin and alice were somehow prised into a matching set of what looked like extremely expensive chairs next to my bed .
i presumed that george was here because he was footing the bill i hoped and that my children were here for moral support , or was it morbid curiosity .
as previously explained to me but not really taken in , in my drug befuddled state multiple operations within a few days , no matter how urgently they may be needed , were definitely not a good idea , so my next round of operations would have to wait at least three months .
then they started on the good news .
my colon and intestines were , given time , treatable here , but a transplant was the only solution for my liver .
with some very fancy surgery my kidneys might just be saved , but both these operations unfortunately could not be performed in house because of my back .
to give me any chance of a normal life without my sheila ?
i would have to be flown , in a rather larger air ambulance than the previous one , to america , where the multiple operations could be carried out in a more controlled environment .
great i muttered to myself , not at the expectation of getting more air miles , or meeting some lovely have a nice day americans , more along the lines of i really do hope that george means what he says , and the answer to that question came in the form of a very formally , if not slightly eccentrically dressed caribbean type gentleman three days later .
mr agrampara came with a very stout box chained firmly to his wrist , and accompanied by my bank manager , a very attractive young lady , who turned out to be an independent financial adviser , and my solicitor .
on seeing vicente i quickly , considering my physical state , grabbed his hand , and pulled him to me .
my eyes welled up , how could i ever thank this man enough ?
as we man hugged words for perhaps the first time in my life truly failed me , and it slowly dawned on me that i was not alone , i was surrounded by people who genuinely wanted to help me .
as i slowly released him , and giving him the largest lopsided thank you grin i could muster , i knew that i had finally turned the corner , life would move on , even without my sheila by my side .
senor gonzales joven , my bank manager , was however another kettle of fish altogether .
when we had first arrived in spain he had kept sheila and i waiting for over half an hour , just so that he could formally welcome us to his bank totally in spanish of course .
he unfortunately couldnt speak a word of english , but fortunately he provided an interpreter at a price .
now he suddenly seemed to be almost fluent in my native tongue as it seemed that everyone else around here was , and all over me like a rash .
after initial introductions mr agrampara quickly explained , in his equally formal and quaint style , why each of them was here .
he managed mr albrights affairs on the islands .
vicente our , sorry my solicitor , whom sheila and i had implicitly entrusted our millions with it was pesetas in those days , not euros when we had decided to start our new life on the costa blanca was here to validate the identity of himself , and to reassure me that he was indeed genuine .
senor gonzales joven was here because he had seen multitudinous euro signs flashing in his minds eye , not an exactly verbatim explanation but close enough , and finally senorita juli sanches perez , who was apparently a high flyer with a very highly respected firm of international financiers and 2nd cousin to senor gonzales , and the current owner of at least one very , very short business suit .
she was here to offer me any independent advice that i might require after the current proceedings had been concluded , she obviously hadnt met millie !
vicente handed me a very official looking report , conveniently certified in both english and spanish , and explained that he had personally carried out his investigations to the best of his ability , and he was absolutely positive that these persons were whom they claimed to be praise the lord .
apparently my son had given george , vicentes details he knew that i trusted him implicitly , as he thought that i might be slightly dubious of the claims about to be made to me by a total stranger .
i think that it can be safely said that that was the greatest understatement ever uttered in the whole wide world , and then robin and alice , along with millie , were asked to leave the room , not only the room but the whole suite , no eavesdropping however inadvertently , heavy stuff .
george was in effect his boss , and also the current owner of all the monies so he was allowed to stay .
once secure in the fact that he wasnt going to be mugged by a violin wielding veterinarian embroiderer he opened the box , hereafter known as the tardis , that was shackled to his wrist a major feat in its own right , and started removing the tools of his trade , and after , with the help of vicente and senor gonzales joven , confirming that i was in fact me , and that i was of sound mind if not body , and i was willing to accept the gift as agreed sic , he started .
my fingers were printed and hands scanned , my retinas were scanned , a sample of my hair ?
and hand writing was taken , a comprehensive recording of my voice was taken and finally my photograph and physical measurements were taken , after of course vicente had confirmed that these were indeed my latest dental records .
is nothing sacred anymore ?
in the world of high finance apparently not .
after dismissing vicente , juli , and my bank manager , but keeping george , i settled down to a crash course in money .
even the dialysis machine , oxygen pump and assorted modern medical miracles flashing away around me seemed to pause in awe as he quietly spoke in fluent bankereese , swiftly followed by my heart when the numbers finally started being crunched .
accounts were signed , telephone numbers were exchanged , not only his number but all my new banks as well .
passwords were constructed , code words invented , challenges and responses were concocted and all dutifully recorded in my new little black book .
it was really a password and fingerprint protected laptop , which had fortunately already come preloaded in the tardis with most of the details .
it would eventually be securely locked away in my suites new upgraded safe , along with the rest of the bumf that goes along with turning me into the worlds joint twelfth richest man .
when events finally came to their natural , and physically exhausting conclusion , mr agrampara , whom i had by this time asked and he had kindly accepted to be my manager on the islands as well , wished me the fondest of farewells after all i was now his boss as well , and departed .
not giving the door time to close behind mr agrampara , senor bank manager burst in .
i assured him that his bank would of course be my bank of choice in spain nothing in writing of course and then politely asked him to leave .
he reluctantly left , being replaced by juli .
please call me juli , all my friends do , but after convincing her that my headache was indeed genuine she quickly made sure that her home and office direct numbers were both on my speed dial and sulkily left .
after her exit vicente entered , and after again offering me his deepest sympathies on my tragic loss and with an almost apologetic if i can ever be of any assistance to you in the future , he quietly departed .
well i knew that i was going to be seeing at least one of them again , and as it turned out , in the very near future .
as millie and the children made their way back into my room they found me in a state of shock , which on this occasion had certainly got nothing to do with the accident .
after giving , with georges help , alice and robin a quick rsum of what had taken place , the albrights thankfully left us to try and come to terms with what had just happened .
at first we were reluctant to talk about the situation , then after about ten seconds the questions started to flow , then suddenly we are rich , never have to work again , get a new car , a new house , a new mansion , a new aeroplane or two .
finally we started to calm down trying to think sensibly , after all sheila was watching over us from her urn , we shouldnt be too happy .
robin , in the short term do you want to continue working ?
i asked .
yes definitely he quickly replied .
so it was decided that in the said short term he would return to his practice to get things sorted out .
alice on the other hand thankfully decided to stay , for a little while at least , and look after planet andrew .
she gave half a thought about possibly losing not only her new fella , but also her place in the orchestra , but i quickly pointed out that if she did , then i would jolly well buy her a new one orchestra that is .
mr agrampara had informed me in a slightly more light hearted moment , just before he had departed , that it would be virtually impossible for me to dent my capital , as no matter how hard i tried , the interest that would be accruing from my investments would be climbing even faster , and then he went on to say that when i recovered from my injuries i should go and live what most other people only fantasize about .
finally , just before a stern looking nurse , in her designer uniform , ordered them out alice and robin left me to get some rest after all they were only in the adjacent suite , and as i lay there in the failing light my mind was in turmoil , so much to think about , so many decisions to make the children 25 million each , or s ?
my parents 10 million each sheilas parents the same my sister 10 million sheilas 2 brothers the same their offspring 5 million each doris and her husband 1 million etc , etc , etc .
who should be on the list ?
should i double it , treble it , or was it too much , and how do i get it to them without receiving a very nice thank you letter from the chancellor of the exchequer ?
decisions , decisions , decisions , and then i remembered millies parting comment she had seen the look of absolute panic on my face and gently patting me on the arm , had uttered those immortal words .
dont worry you have now entered the world of the consultant .
apparently there were consultants to advise me on virtually anything .
i was to even find out later that there were consultants that could advise me on which consultants to use , but hey ho that was for another day , for now let me concentrate on my headache , and it was a blinder .
the next day i awoke extremely confused and upset .
in that brief moment between sound asleep and wide awake i had been thinking of the money , it had only been a month since i had lost my reason for living .
the first thing that i had always thought of on waking since the accident was sheila , and the last thing at night , before i drifted off into a drug induced sleep was the same , until last night .
when i had finally dosed off , with the aid of the usual little something to make me sleep injected into my cannula i was thinking of the money , and this morning , when i awoke i had been thinking of the same , how could i .
it then dawned on me that despite my terrible loss the world had continued to revolve , and no matter how wretched i personally felt , things were happening in both mine and my childrens lives that needed my immediate attention .
life would somehow continue , even without my sheila , and after my liquid breakfast and some light physiotherapy i was allowed my first visitors of the day alice of course didnt count as she was family .
george , despite my first impression , was turning out to be a very nice person , but millie well she was in a league of her own , she was an absolute treasure .
gently , using her financial expertise , she started introducing me , slowly at first , to the intricacies of handling so much money .
like it or not i was now a mega millionaire , or should that be mega billionaire ?
one false move and i could bankrupt a small and apparently not so small country , so the first thing to do was to learn how to safely move it about .
alice retrieved my little black book from the safe , plugged it in , and with the aid of my finger print sorted out the wireless connection that all good 5 star hotels hospitals must have .
whatever happened to dont switch on your mobile , it will kill someone .
obviously we were all very well protected by our wallets .
first pick a bank and then ring their number surely they must all be asleep in the caribbean at this time ?
explain who i was , to at least 3 different people , and then if by any chance they had received any of my details , give them my new account number , explain how much i wanted to transfer , give them my own bank account details and wait until tomorrow to see if senor gonzales joven had turned into a happy man .
wrong , with the help of what i would imagine was a very securely encrypted internet connection all my details seemed to be up and running .
good morning , or is it afternoon there ?
i am mister andrew michaels and hopefully i have some sort of an account with your bank .
indeed you do sir came the crisp reply , but first may i , on behalf of the bank and all its employees offer you our heartfelt condolences on your recent loss .
through the shock i muttered thank you this definitely wasnt going to plan .
and also may i take this opportunity to welcome you to our establishment .
formalities out of the way he then cheerfully informed me that it was in fact three oclock in the morning where he was , but dont let that worry you sir , this is what we are here for , now please how can i be of assistance ?
taking a deep breath i tentatively whispered can you transfer five million euros into my spanish bank account please , that should keep me going for a little while .
your banco de sol account sir ending in 664 ?
err yes i replied , and a moment later all done sir , it is now in your spanish account , can i be of any further assistance ?
obviously all those passwords , challenges and responses and other security precautions , including no doubt my inside leg measurement were only needed if the voice recognition technology malfunctioned .
i think the younger generation use the term gob smacked , it is a very apt expression .
it seems that i had now entered a financial world that i never even knew existed .
money indeed talks , and finding that the banco de sol icon already existed on the desktop screen of my little black book i told the truth about the colour , it is indeed black , it just doesnt have any paper pages i clicked the relevant on line banking prompts and waited with baited breath to find out if i was in fact really awake , or just having a very vivid dream .
bingo , senor gonzales joven was , as i lay there absolutely stunned , finding out that he was indeed a very happy man .
my first major decision concerned our villa , and it came quite easily really .
realising that i was going to be hospitalised for at least another 9 months , maybe even a year , and having no real wish to revisit a place which held so many happy memories for me i gave it to doris , along with a small sum well small sum to me to help her with the upkeep .
it would be in her name only of course , just in case pedro wasnt her everlasting love after all he was number three .
she had always been so keen and cheerful when helping sheila around the villa , no job was too small or too dirty , especially when bonnie had her tummy problems .
she looked after our home as if it were her own , well now it was .
one phone call to vicente , plus a brief fax giving him the authority to act on my behalf in this matter and it happened .
doris sorted out what she thought were my personal affects , or items that might have especially fond memories for me and set them to one side to await alices visit , which alice arranged for a week later .
she spent a day sadly going through it all , aided by doris , vicente , and a team of storage people whom he had thoughtfully arranged to be there then i became of no fixed abode as all the papers , computers , dvds , photos , and myriad bits and pieces of memorabilia that contributed to the memories of 32 years of happy marriage , went into secure storage .
not even our relocating to spain five years earlier had helped reduce the pile significantly .
doris had even found the original boxes , stored away at the back of the basement , for sheilas cherished lladro collection .
if the memories that came with those beautiful figurines turned out to be too much for me , then alice im sure would always have a suitable home for them .
most of our clothes went to the clothes bank , even mine , there was no guarantee that once i had recovered they would even fit me again , and alice had a shrewd suspicion that i may now be able to afford new ones hopefully with a bit more style , and after asking vicente to deal with the villa , i quickly realised that i was definitely going to need serious help , permanently .
i had alice on hand for the time being , but i realised that she would , sooner or later , have to depart to sort out her own life .
she had even recently started practicing again with her beloved violin , after a totally besotted hospital administrator found her a suitable rehearsal room out of ear shot of the paying guests of course in an attempt to gain favour nice try jos .
i knew from our little chats in the past that vicente was not only an up and coming local abagado , with 2 small offices , a partner , and a couple of secretary researcher typists , but he was also very active in human and civil rights issues .
he had been to brussels and madrid many times representing various clients , and not always being financially rewarded for his efforts .
pro bono work it seemed was a cross that he had to bare , but as long as he could put food on the family table his wife was happy , so a week or so after alice had sadly sorted out the villa i asked vicente over for a little chat .
i had done some thinking and had come to the conclusion that vicente fitted the bill perfectly .
he was honest , reliable , thoughtful , had an outstanding sense of responsibility , and also i trusted him implicitly .
after what seemed like hours of negotiating , but alice thought it was quite quick really we agreed that i would retain him on a very attractive annual fee plus expenses of course to be my man friday in the legal field .
i wasnt unreasonable , all i expected in return was for him to be available 24 7 .
eventually i relented slightly and agreed not only to allow him a little time to sleep but also to let him continue representing a few of his human and civil rights clients in his spare time and also to fund them when necessary , not a lot , but a few , just enough to ensure that his feel good factor was filled .
the only condition that i insisted on was that if he was not available then someone of a similar ilk to him was , and i even agreed , in a moment of weakness , to include the chartering of aircraft instead of rail fares in his expenses .
i could not , for the life of me see why he should spend all his time lounging around in uncomfortable railway carriages when he could be doing something constructive for me , and this , as it turned out was the beginning of not only a very profitable arrangement for him no more worries for his wife about where the money for her families next meal was coming from , but also the beginning of a very successful business arrangement for me .
from now on any problems of even a slightly legalistic nature and he was my man .
welcome to the first of many into my fold .
chapter 4 it was six weeks into my enforced stay in this lap of luxury when alice made a friend they met by accident in the palatial greeting hall not for this illustrious place a common reception area .
maria , as it turned out her name was , was trying to get permission to travel around the hospital quietly soliciting donations for the local hospice , and alice , on her way to her rehearsal room , and being a naturally inquisitive nosey soul , heard everything .
maria was explaining that her mother was in the local hospice , awaiting the inevitable , and she was doing her penance , fund raising for them whilst her mother was having her daily treatment .
the welcome co ordinator aka receptionist was having none of it , and alice could see that maria was getting more and more distraught .
intervening , to the great relief of the co ordinator alice gently guided maria to the cafeteria , after all a cappuccino always made her feel better perhaps it would work on this poor woman as well .
after brief introductions , and two much slower , absolutely divine cuppas , maria poured out all her woes she was at her lowest ebb and seemed to sense in alice a kindred spirit .
marias mother was terminal , maria had accepted that fact several months ago , what she had not seen coming was how her father would deal with it he took off with all their savings , and a girl less than half his age .
fortunately for her mother their insurance was covering the costs of the hospice but maria still had to live .
she had an eight year old daughter to support , and had just been informed by her faithful employers , the ayuntamiento town hall , that they had arbitrarily terminated her employment , quoting absenteeism as the reason .
no amount of pleading had made them change their mind , and of course her savings were now dwindling at an alarming rate .
as alice listened with growing anger she had a revelation she was good at those , vicente just his cup of tea he doesnt like cappuccino , it was time to get daddy involved .
after putting the coffees and two ring donuts that had just happened to find their way in front of them onto her suites account she steered maria , by this time not quite so distraught , up in the lift and along to see daddy , and daddy was day dreaming , day dreaming of what he usually day dreamed about at this time of day , mummy , until the door to his room opened and he noticed , just behind his daughter , a sad faced beautiful young woman , no not beautiful , stunning , and that stopped his day dreaming dead in its tracks .
maria was dressed in a faintly patterned crisp white long sleeved shirt and jet black fitted denims , showing off her figure to perfection .
she had accessorised with a slim black patent leather belt and shiny black high heeled boots , which all went perfectly with her short , but very stylish , jet black hair , and her eyes somebody could easily get lost in those eyes .
a very recently widowed middle aged gentleman should not go , or even worse , lie around noticing things like this he though , as he quickly transferred his gaze back to his daughter .
hello my wonderful popsy wopsy she purred , and i could hear my wallet groaning as it lay quietly in the bedside table drawer .
in the past that greeting had usually ended up with me parting with some of my hard earned cash .
with me concentrating perhaps a tad too hard on alices face rather than doing what most men would have done and stared in awe at that beautiful young woman behind her she started explaining , in quite graphic detail she would have made a wonderful actress if the violin lessons had been wasted how she had met maria , and what had ensued thereafter , finally ending with a flourishing and vicente should take them all to the icc at the hague .
she then threw herself at the mercy of the court , or rather me .
i quickly explained to her that only war criminals went to the international criminal court at the hague but that didnt seem to faze her in the slightest , in fact taking it at face value it actually seemed like a good idea to me as well , not only getting vicente involved but also sending them to the hague .
in my opinion they should all be shot for the way they had treated her , and then i made eye contact with maria , and that could have been a big mistake for a lesser person , but fortunately i managed to stop myself from falling into those ebony pools and forced myself into conducting a civilized conversation with her .
maria jos fernandez cortez left college after completing her business studies with a side line in languages and went to work for a time in the citys tourism department .
from what i gathered she then had to take a short career break to attend to the birth of her daughter myra , which it transpired was the result of a very unwelcome advance by her supervisor after a rather protracted drinks after work session .
being new to the job , and knowing that the guardia civil police and her new employers would most likely take his side after all she had willingly consumed a considerable amount of alcohol and she was a female she took the other route .
after finding out his home address she rang the doorbell , and with him standing in shock behind his wife , she told her everything .
as she exited , head held high , she vowed never to touch another drop of alcohol again , and a few weeks later , after finding out that she was pregnant she really did do just that .
the supervisor never did return to work .
first he claimed ill health , and then resigned due to personal problems , and disappeared , moving on to pastures new .
good riddance she thought , but that wouldnt help her bring up a new born baby .
fortunately her elder sister , who had a tribe of her own to contend with , came to the rescue .
one more wont even be noticed she informed her , so safe in the knowledge that her gorgeous little myra was in safe hands she went back to work , trying to salvage a career out of her disaster , but the new supervisor was not a very happy little fellow , he knew exactly what had transpired with his predecessor , so , about six weeks after her return from maternity leave , when a very senior manageress from the main offices noticed her and offered her the position as her pa , he didnt stand in her way in the slightest in fact he even helped her to pack up her personal items .
more money , better hours , a chance to really use her college education and to crown it all a female boss , and she thought that things couldnt get any better but they did .
a year later her new boss got the bosses job and took maria with her .
this really did put her on the fast track .
hard work , and a little luck had put her well and truly among the movers and shakers .
all went well for 7 glorious years , myra was growing into a lovely child , and her sister was as good as her word , looking after her as if she was one of her own .
the only cloud in the sky was their mothers failing health , and it was failing quite rapidly .
despite chemotherapy and other conventional and not so conventional treatments she started to sink fast .
this was also about the time that her father , not the most supportive of characters at the best of times decided to reassess his living arrangements taking anything of value , plus their neighbours 20 year old slow witted daughter with him , and to really put the icing on the cake her situation at work deteriorated as well .
aurora , her boss , met the love of her life and quickly took early retirement , and her replacement was a bully .
he wanted to change everything , whether it was needed or not , both in and out of the office , and he even brought his own little typist with him .
she was not a threat to marias position , although she thought she was , she wasnt even a very good a typist .
the only thing that she seemed to excel at was stirring and it wasnt just the coffee , and life in the office was quickly becoming quite unbearable , and then her mother was taken into hospital for the last time , and after the shortest of stays she was transferred to the hospice .
the prognosis was not good and maria had to apply for a leave of absence to dedicate twenty four hours a day to looking after her mother , this was spain , it was expected of her , and six weeks later about a week ago she received the letter terminating her employment .
she had immediately taken valuable time out from looking after her mother to try and sort things out , but her new boss refused to even see her , and that harridan was actually sat at her desk , smiling .
personnel human resources were very sorry .
the hospice was always looking for fund raisers to help raise the much needed cash that was always needed to provide those little , and not so little , extras that made the residents final days more endurable .
maria took to it willingly she appreciated that her efforts would be too late for her mother , but not for future residents , and that was why , perhaps a little naively , she was at the hospital pleading to be allowed to enter their portals to seek donations .
what is the target i asked .
a quarter of a million euros she embarrassingly whispered .
youve got it i blurted out , and if i had been more in touch with my feminine side im sure that by now i would have tears streaming down my face damn it where did i put those tissues .
what a courageous young woman , and despite all the adversity she was still continuing to struggle on , not letting herself go , and thinking of others before herself .
when we , sorry they , had wiped the tears from their eyes they both quietly sipped at cups of lukewarm earl grey that a nurse had just poured them .
it had been hot , in its bone china teapot , when an english nurse had quietly bought it in some time earlier , but she had then rather inappropriately gotten engrossed in marias story .
even she , a hardened experienced nurse was moved , and after blushing slightly she made her apologies and left , promising a fresh pot .
as i mulled things over in my mind alice had learned years ago that this was the time to keep her lips buttoned tightly shut , it started to become clear , it was obvious , but there was a big problem , and i politely asked maria if she would mind waiting in my lounge for a few moments , whilst i conferred with alice .
thank you so very much for the donation daddy alice started , do you think vicente can help her ?
i doubt it , this is spain i replied , but i might be able to , but there is a problem , maria is a beautiful young woman , and i am now a rich widower , what will people say ?
alice burst into laughter , the first spontaneous laughter that i had heard in months , you are a silly old pickle daddy , and she giggled , isnt it obvious , she now bats for the other side .
ten minutes later i had my very own p.a , and vicente would be happy to learn that i was now an equal opportunities employer .
first things first , get maria a set of wheels her lease car had been snatched back by the ayuntamiento the same day that the letter had arrived , and with a quick call to a local car hire firm vicente had it sorted , the keys will be in marias hands within half an hour he promised , and they were .
he also sorted a plastic card for her with the bank of course they would arrange it immediately , and not a mention of their favourite word maana .
vicente didnt seem to mind helping out with these non legal favours , after all when maria was finally ensconced in her new position this type of job would come within her jurisdiction .
she spent about an hour with us discussing her new responsibilities , and i quickly realised that she knew more about what would be required of her than i would ever know , so after tucking the keys to her new car into the rear pocket of those jeans she returned to her mother lucky keys .
i had insisted that she concentrate her immediate attentions on her mother , until she felt that she was in more of a position to give me her full attention , but as i watched those keys depart , a horrible thought flitted through my mind , i hope she wont be too long .
two days later senor gonzales joven delivered marias new piece of plastic in person , along with at least half a trees worth of papers and leaflets .
fortunately my physiotherapist marco arrived just in the nick of time and requested him quite firmly to leave , and leave him to it .
promising him that i would look through the paperwork with interest he yet again reluctantly departed from my room .
i then handed the paperwork to marco who , following my explicit instructions and with a large grin on his face promptly filed it all in the nearby shredder .
as marco was coming to the end of his sadistic massications alice popped in for a quick chat before she went off to visit her new friend and her mother at the hospice .
handing alice marias new card , i asked her to make sure that maria signed it and fully understood that she should not be afraid to use it , i had no wish for my new p.a .
to arrive for work with a shelf load of debts we could always sort something out later .
i really am a trusting soul .
alice returned in floods of tears an hour later , she had arrived too late ten minutes earlier marias mother had peacefully gone to sleep , never to awaken , and maria had been quietly sitting beside her now sheet draped mother .
alice should then have quietly turned around and left , but she didnt want her new friend to have financial worries on top of everything else , so maria obediently signed the card that alice handed her , and blankly acknowledged the instructions given to her , then alice decided that this really was the time for her to leave very soon this room was going to be full of grieving relatives , but as she leaned over to give maria a sympathetic hug before departing maria suddenly sprang out of her chair , turned , and savagely grabbed hold of a startled alice , then started sobbing uncontrollably into her shoulder .
this was her time to grieve , with a kindred spirit , before the rest of her family arrived , after all someone had to organise things .
by the time her sister arrived fifteen minutes later alice had departed and maria was dry eyed and effortlessly taking charge , this was the way she did things .
that was on the thursday , the following monday morning at nine a.m. sharp maria entered my room .
she was immaculately dressed in a chi light weight business suit and was visibly chomping at the bit ready to start .
after i had offered her my commiserations i expressed my surprise that she wasnt at home sorting out the funeral arrangements .
she explained to me that in spain it was normal for families to hold the funeral of a loved one the very next day , and all had gone according to plan she assured me .
she had not needed to use the card , although it had been a very reassuring feeling to have had it in her back pocket , just in case lucky card .
marias english was perfect , and so apparently was her castellano the spanish national language , valenciano the local dialect , italian and portuguese , but her french and german were only passable though .
she had a natural talent for languages , and over the years she had nurtured it , this was some smart lady .
she went on to explain that it was not her style to sit around wailing and getting through boxes of tissues , so her sister was looking after myra , and here she was raring to go .
her sister was perfectly happy to continue having myra during the day , however there might be a problem if i required her maria not her sister to be away overnight .
put that number one on the list of things to sort out i told her .
alice had mentioned to her faithful hound , sorry hospital administrator , that maria would at some time soon be joining me although neither of us had quite expected it to be this soon .
he assured her that very suitable office furniture could be provided by the hospital as and when we required it .
maria required it now , and two hours later she had her office .
it was really my lounge but as i wasnt ambulatory yet , and not i suspect for quite a while , i didnt have a pressing need for it .
she also had a small desk placed in my room , for dictation , but she had no outside phone line , apparently the telephone and adsl broadband line would take a few days .
this was a normal response from telefonica the cable was actually strung about four hours later again that was normal according to my experience .
reluctantly using the hospitals phone she didnt trust their security one little bit a suitable consultant was found and they proudly informed her that they would have compatible computers , telephones , fax , printers , as well as all the other bits of high tech office paraphernalia installed by lunch time tomorrow .
that of course was not acceptable to my p.a. , so five hours after arriving it looked as if she had been at the desk for years .
i liked her style .
maria and i worked well together from the start , whether it was a when i was telling her what to do , b bouncing ideas around with her , or c when she was one step ahead of me and discretely telling me what to tell her to do next , and it was usually c she needed no close supervision and very little direction .
one of her first jobs was to compose her own job description .
i really didnt have a clue what was required of her but by the end of her first day with me , at 9 00 pm to be precise , it was on my desk well bed side table , along with a brief e mail from vicente .
she had most likely used her previous job description as the starting point , then with the help of the world wide web , vicente , and maybe the odd consultant or two she had produced a very impressive document .
the e mail informed me that he had read the three fun packed pages of the attached final draft and confirmed that it seemed to be a good basis to start from ? .
i had some good employers rights , three months notice etc. , and she had some nice little perks , company car , good holiday entitlement , child care provision etc .
he also pointed out that it did not violate her civil or employment rights i was really pleased about that .
the only thing he might disagree with me about was her salary .
we had used her final salary at her previous employment , and added a bit for good luck , so it was not too bad for this end of spain , but in the private sector , vicente pointed out , a person of her calibre could easily expect to pick up bucket loads more euros , and if i wanted to keep her for any length of time then i might reconsider the figure , and in due course maybe even add a few more perks .
first day in the job and she almost doubles her salary , not bad i thought , i hope she doesnt expect that every day .
right , wheres my little black book , yellow pages , car dealers designer business suites , who is working for whom ?
chapter 5 within three days another vacancy arose .
apparently whilst i had been lying around enjoying myself ?
over the past couple of months , word had slowly leaked out to the press that there was a new guy on the block , and various tabloid newspapers dispatched reporters and or paparazzi with indecent haste to try and dish the dirt .
they were effectively kept at bay by the hospitals security staff that was in their job descriptions .
apparently what wasnt in them was the bit about protecting me from knife wielding maniacs .
a smartly dressed dutch gentleman , carrying a large bouquet of seasonal flowers , and posing as a visitor gained access to my floor .
exchanging the flowers for a suitable white coat which he found on a hook in the empty staff rest area he strolled into my room .
alice was fortunately off rehearsing , but maria was at her dictation desk , which was situated just behind the door , busily engrossed in a confirmation letter to the child care company that we had just decided that she should use , and he immediately started raving at me in flemish , not one of my stronger languages in fact i couldnt understand a word of it .
i found out later that he thought that it was immoral that i should have all that money all to myself , and when i didnt instantly agree to redistribute my newly acquired wealth in his direction he started cutting my tubes , knocking over machines , and generally causing mayhem , and i promptly died , well almost .
fortunately , in his demented state , he thought he could stab one of my life support systems to death with his all metal knife , and although the machine did have some of my bodily fluids flowing through it , his knife point actually entered a ventilation slot , and he neatly sliced through a very high voltage electric cable .
the shock catapulted him backwards across the room , and he finally came to rest sitting dazed against the front of marias new desk .
maria , who up until then had been unable to react as the incident had taken only a few seconds , metaphorically speaking sprang into action .
with an enormous amount of nervous energy she grasped her shiny new laptop in both hands , leant over her desk , and fitted it neatly over his head .
sitting back down she absent mindedly wondered if the letter that she had been working on would have been auto saved .
doctors , nurses and security guards rushed in , fortunately the guards went to our intruder and the medical staff came to me .
it was close , but they kept me alive , just .
two days later , as i lay watching the sun pass its zenith and fortunately now fully recovered from that particular near death experience , and idly thinking that perhaps some of the staff should receive a small token of my appreciation on my final departure through those hallowed portals below , the head doorman himself also known as el director and his supporting cast entered , and like all good hotel hospital directors he was fluent in politics .
i was a wonderful this , and fantastic that , but what it eventually boiled down too was that i was a lousy security risk .
after some discussion , a few shrugs , and much huffing and puffing he finally agreed that his security guards would protect me , on double time of course and at my expense twenty four hours a day for two days .
after that however forthcoming events must dictate that they would be required to return to normal duties .
however , he knew of a reputable local company that could take on the task thereafter .
putting his brother , uncle or golfing buddy on hold , maria , alice and i pulled up the uk yellow pages on my un dented laptop and started to scour the security , body guard and close protection agencies that advertised under various headings in the hereford area .
that was not a random choice of area , about a year ago i had read in a novel it was in black and white so it must be true that retired sas soldiers either went off to fight someone elses war , got themselves a pub , or went into close personal protection , body guarding for the uninitiated , and after a couple of false starts they must have thought i was a right lunatic , and wondered which tree i had just fallen out of i finally got my spiel off pat and spoke to a rather brash sounding gentleman .
he was my main man , and he could sort anything out .
after listening to my tale of woe he changed his tune slightly , and after taking down my telephone number he promised that if he was able to help , you will be contacted shortly .
hopefully he read the tabloids and believed me .
how long is shortly ?
about 20 minutes .
the phone rang , mr michaels please .
maria quickly passed me the phone she didnt want to argue with this voice .
andrew michaels i groaned .
i understand that you have a slight security problem stated the mystery voice .
it might be slight to you buddy i thought , but its pretty big to me .
thats correct i replied and started to explain , but after about half a sentence i was silenced .
why dont you use a local firm ?
he growled , and i quickly explained that i wanted english speakers around me i hoped that it would make me feel safer .
finding spanish speaking operatives at short notice might be difficult , but i will see what can be done .
i will also need to discuss the general arrangements with you face to face , which hospital are you in , and what is your ward number please .
i gave him my suite number and the hospitals details as requested .
thank you , he growled , oh and by the way you may call me colonel , and with that he hung up .
as i stared at the now redundant instrument i thought im sure i will , or anything else you wish me to call you .
no contact number , no company name , not even any indication of when he would arrive , but i was sure of one thing , he would .
it was that kind of voice , the kind of voice that you argued with at your peril , but when it promised that something would happen , it happened , and apparently it did , about four oclock the following morning .
waking my hospital guard , who was sound asleep on the settee in marias office , sweetly dreaming of how he was going to spend the extra euros in his pay packet the colonel sent him packing .
the guard had not questioned who these men were crossing these guys was certainly not in his job description , not even in the small print , and the colonel then left two very stocky and very wide awake gentlemen in his place .
he returned at seven oclock the next morning and of course i was sound asleep , i never was a morning person , and so he quietly sat down at marias small desk her chair had a straight back , not for him the padded islands of comfort that were supplied for my visitors , and remained sitting there until i was finally raised from my beauty sleep at around eight thirty by a pretty swedish nurse doing her chores .
i took one look at him as he sat there and knew immediately who he was .
good morning colonel , have you been here long ?
he placed what passed for a smile on his face , and totally ignored my question .
i have two operatives in your secretarys office which would go down like a lead balloon if maria ever heard him calling her that , she was my pa , and have two others in a nearby hotel , resting , oh and i have hired , on your behalf , two suitable vehicles for their use .
two vehicles for four people , bit o.t.t .
i thought , but who was going to argue with him , certainly not me .
he then went on to explain that as this was a foreign country this nearly did get me going , after all we were now in the eu and it was my adopted country , nearly , but not quite the paperwork would take a little while to complete .
this i wasnt going to argue with , the spanish had turned bureaucracy into an art form .
it transpired that apparently it would take a little while before his operatives would be carrying , but , he assured me , they had made alternative arrangements in the meantime .
i was mortified , not that it would take time , more that it seemed that i was turning marias office into a wild west show , had things degenerated this far ?
then my mind went back three days yes they had .
were these arrangements acceptable ?
he asked .
yes of course they were , very i replied , and then he moved on to the boring bits , contracts , money , code of conduct for his boys , and more frighteningly , to use the vernacular , rules of engagement .
who was to be protected , and to what degree , they obviously didnt want to shoot someone if they werent going to get paid for it .
you ?
he said .
of course i replied .
maria ?
again i said of course .
family members ?
oh yes .
other members of staff ?
yes , but my voice was getting lower , i didnt have any other members of staff here at the moment , but i had a very shrewd suspicion that that would change in the near future .
doctors , nurses and visitors ?
well yes , i suppose .
that was when we entered the grey area , and he was very good at grey areas .
now that i was his client he started to relax , and i could almost see the broom handle being removed from a certain part of his anatomy .
after , for him anyway , the usual formalities were completed even with the regular interruptions related to a high dependency suite we settled down for a quiet chat .
he had a special request , about ten minutes earlier he had heard movement in marias office and went to investigate the lounge office had its own door to the outside world .
on his return hed had two smiling boys with him , it was shift changeover .
they were pleased to meet me , and sorry about my recent loss , accident and incident and then charlie , the shorter of the two patted a bulge under his armpit and cheekily informed me that i would now be able to sleep soundly at night .
with the amount of drugs that were being pumped into my system there was no doubt about that , but what i did realise however was that this colonel , whoever he was , was one influential guy .
i would put money on it that if he had to move a mountain , he would , with one arm tied firmly behind his back .
giving charlie a look that would have stopped a charging rhino in its tracks he sent them off for some well deserved shut eye , and as he steered them out of my room , and i lay there thinking that the reference to sheila hadnt been quite so painful i must slowly be coming to terms with reality , i heard him say to someone out of my line of sight , five minutes , before he returned to my room , but our little chat took a little longer than five minutes .
what he wanted to ask me was a personal favour , and he would fully understand if i couldnt help .
outside was a david williams , warrant officer first class retired , who a couple of months earlier had been medically retired from the army .
it soon transpired that this particular ex warrant officer had been someone very special , even in a special forces unit .
the colonel hinted that even though ex wo williams had been decorated several times previously , his last mission had been something even more special , but unfortunately not only had he suffered appallingly physically , but something else had happened , and as soon as it was deemed safe by the hierarchy , they had quietly given him a medical discharge .
it was the colonels humble opinion however that the generals couldnt allow a mere warrant officer to become the most highly decorated member of the armed services , so they simply got rid of him .
he continued , not in any great detail of course , intimating that he had also had the honour of leading him into action , and had a lot to thank him for .
he was not going to permit such a brave man to sink into obscurity , so would i permit him to let this man who did not at the moment meet the standards of physical fitness that were normally required of an operative to remain out here with me in spain , solely to supervise the other operatives , not of course in an operational capacity , and certainly at no additional expense to me .
i doubted that bit , it was most likely already included somewhere in the sums but i liked his style .
as he went back into marias office to collect this demigod i wondered whether i should either bow or prostrate myself when he entered .
i did neither , if i hadnt been firmly strapped down i would have leaped out of my bed , not out of any respect or awe , but to give him room to get into it .
he needed it far more than i did .
god he looked awful .
i had often used the expression about feeling like death warmed up , well here was living proof , just , that you could actually look like it as well , and with not a very high calorific output .
chapter 6 david brian williams was bright , not only academically , but practically as well .
upon leaving his local sixth form college he joined the army , having first attained the requisite number of a levels for direct entry into the army air corp as an acting sergeant provisional , much to his fathers disgust he was supposed to go into the family business .
after first completing his basic square bashing as a lowly private he picked up his sergeants stripes .
better put them on with velcro luv the rather jealous young stores wrac muttered , youve got to pass the flying bit yet , and he did .
after soloing in a conventional aircraft at basic flying school , he moved quickly on to the rotary wing helicopters advanced flying school and was promptly told to forget what you have just learned , you now have an extra pole in the cockpit to contend with .
he found the pole down by his left hand side , and quickly came to terms with how to push , shove and lift the collective the new pole , cyclic stick the control column and rudder pedals minus the brakes as he now had skids instead of wheels until the spritely little gazelle did exactly what he wanted it to do .
sometimes however he wanted it to grow a set of doors he didnt like it one little bit when they were occasionally removed for operational reasons .
as he passed out , with his father now proudly looking on , along with his mother , sisters and it seemed like uncle tom cobbly and all , he daydreamed of moving on to operational training on the new westland lynx .
not quite , after some well deserved leave the by now acting sergeant pilot williams db aac , his stripes and wings now very securely sewn on , found himself flying around the skys in a westland scout , an even older type of helicopter , but at least it could be fitted with a multitude of guns , rockets and other assorted military paraphernalia .
his first operational unit was based not in germany , or one of the exotic hot spots around the world , but middle wallop , stockbridge , hampshire , in the sunny uk , where he fitted in well .
he spent many a happy hour polishing the perspex , both inside and out with the special cleaner provided on the aircraft that he normally flew , the staff sergeant in charge of flight maintenance insisted on it , you fly it , you clean it , and if you make any of your passengers puke , you clean that up as well .
he would never forget the smell of that cleaning polish , each time he used it the smell would linger on his fingers for days .
as he was only a sergeant pilot he picked up more than his fair share of routine assignments .
routine usually involved bodmin moor , rain , royal navy wessex and wasps the navys version of his scout , the odd lynx , occasionally a chinook , and umpteen numbers of squaddies army and hairy fairies royal navy maintenance crews , dressed in their new camouflage you cant see me suits , all learning how to become booties royal marines .
as a fully trained pilot they , for the most part , left him to his own devices , only calling on him when absolutely necessary , and this was especially true when it was one of the navy commando support squadrons working up , all their pilots were officers so he didnt really fit in , so he would usually set up his office in the small boiler room attached to the field kitchen .
it was lovely and warm , even in the depths of winter , and it was definitely better than a tent .
he usually shared it with his duel trade reme fitter and a couple of other ncos that werent under training .
most mornings , after his early morning run , he would go up for an air test with his fitter , or one of his other sleeping companions , fly down to the local village , park in a handy field and collect the newspapers , cigarettes and nutty that was what the navy quaintly called sweets , and return in time for a well earned mid morning brew .
this went on regularly for almost two years , and he quite enjoyed it , just as long as they kept the doors on his machine he was a very happy waffoo navy slang for the collective name of aeronautical gentlemen .
one day however , towards the end of a particularly wet detachment , the powers that be decided , at very short notice , to convert his perfectly watertight scout into a gun ship , so off came the doors , and along came a navy ordnance tiffy to fit a gpmg machine gun mount , very heath robinson ish to one of his machines skids , as it was obvious that they didnt have the correct fittings to hand .
apparently his fitter didnt have the right dual trade in his repertoire either , as he was very conspicuous by his absence , and so off they went , david in the driving seat and one very reluctant volunteer bomb head armourer , with a big black machine gun and several boxes of blank ammunition in the back .
to say the least , their mission wasnt a total success .
while shooting up the guest pongos another name for army types as they jumped in and out of a wezzy 5 , wessex mk5 helicopter , in the mud below , first the bag catching the ejected shells split , causing vast quantities of used brass cartridge cases to roll around the cockpit floor , then the gpmg , with all the vibration , shook itself loose and vacated the aircraft .
fortunately the bomb head had the sense to let it go , after all it wasnt his , and luckily it didnt hit anyone on arrival on terra firma , only a big rock that was quite innocently lying there minding its own business .
they obviously had to land and pick the thing up you cant just leave something like that lying around in the mud , so as gently as he could he set the now unarmed gunship down into the mud , but unfortunately not that gently .
with the assistance of the down wash from the main rotor blades they were covered him , his bomb head , and the entire aircraft both inside and out , in mud , glorious mud .
things did not improve very much after that either .
his passenger , for that was what he now was , retrieved the rather bent weapon , tied it down in the cargo bay ten minutes earlier it had been the weapons bay and he lifted off enter more mud .
on his way back to the line , the place where he could park his scout , the passenger , or rather the contents of his stomach decided it had had enough , and with all that wide open space beside him , he let it arrive on the cargo bay floor .
just to put the final touch to a perfect flight it then started to rain .
after they landed , and with the help of his very reluctant fitter they cleaned the beast , inside and out , after all he out ranked them both and r.h.i.p rank has its privileges , but just before his by now thoroughly hacked off matelot departed , with a machine gun that could now fire round corners over his shoulder , david asked him to explain one thing , what on earth is a tiffy ?
spitting at a passing frog the sailor explained that at the utterance of that word you had to spit , not only at a frog , anything would do , and then went on to explain that they tiffs spit were direct entry whiz kids who after 4 or 5 years in the classroom , and with perhaps just a smidging of hands on training , passed out as senior rates .
they can tell you the square root of a jar of pickles but cant actually open one .
david looked at the machine gun and nodded .
what quaint old nautical expressions and customs one came across on these wonderful little adventures , and they came complete with their own language .
to be fair they had artificers in the reme the armys mechanics , so he knew they were really highly skilled technicians , but as he always liked to say , mustnt let the truth get in the way of a good story , and in future he most certainly wouldnt forget to spit .
on return to his squadron the next day , tired , dirty , and thoroughly hacked off , he had a long luxurious shower in the aircrew rest room and then sat down to watch live on television the sas storming the iranian embassy .
remembering that he had recently seen a memo on the bulletin board saying if you are fed up with life , come and join us , you may not live long but you will certainly enjoy it while it lasts perhaps not a literal translation , but close enough , he grabbed his beret and marched smartly into the adjutants office , requesting a transfer to the sas , and apparently the sas had , at that time , priority when it came to the allocation of available resources , and he was an available resource .
despite being a pilot , and a rather valuable one at that , according to his squadron commander that was news to him , he was still only an available resource so his co had no option but to pass on his request .
that evening he rang his parents , they were mortified .
he then rang his friend charlie , he was much more enthusiastic .
david first came across charlie watkins when , on a fine summers day , he saw the usual gaggle of playground bullies picking on a new boy , the boy was quite short for his age but fairly stocky .
he appeared to be riding out the verbal abuse so far , but david correctly assumed that things were going to get a lot worse .
remembering what his father always said , right is right , wrong is wrong , and always stick up for the underdog what that had to do with the price of cod he didnt know he went to the new boys aid and what quickly ensued was a playground scrap of epic proportions , two second years against four third years , the outcome was a foregone conclusion , they massacred them , and as the headmaster was handing out six of the best to all and sundry , a friendship was born that no one could put asunder , a few tried but they usually ended up with a visit to the headmaster as well .
away from school they became almost inseparable .
as they re enacted the usual things that boys of their age re enacted david would lead the charge over the parapet , with charlie close behind , covering his back .
that was what charlie did best not a born leader but everybody wanted him on their side .
when david moved on to the sixth form college to do his a levels , charlie went off and joined the army as a boy soldier , and by the time david joined the air corp several years later charlie was by then a real soldier in the royal tank regiment , where his lack of height stood him in good stead he could actually fit into the driving seat of a main battle tank and not bang his head on the hatch above him .
charlie quite enjoyed driving around salisbury plain in his new super toy , but what he didnt enjoy were the live firings at high speed , over rough terrain .
when he wasnt trying to knock himself senseless on the hatch , the gunner was trying to deafen him with the 105mm gun , just inches above him , so when david , sorry sergeant williams , rang him to tell him his news , the by now lance bombardier watkins cf decided that enough was enough , and it was time to join his friend , so he did , on the next induction course .
the specially designed three week long course was to find out if they had the right intestinal fortitude to start the proper training .
they both expected a hard time but it was a nightmare .
both thought they were above average when it came to physical fitness , wrong , it was horrendous the sas only wanted the best of the best so the course was deliberately designed to be both physically and mentally draining , with an overdose of sleep deprivation thrown in .
one of their favourite recollections was that on returning exhausted from a midnight cross country run , with only a rock filled haversack on their backs to keep them company , they were herded by this time only ten out of the original sixteen into a dimly lit shed .
scattered around the floor were an assortment of parts , some of which , they were reliably informed , would make up fully functioning ak47s .
none of them had ever seen a complete soviet ak47 assault rifle close up , never mind in bits .
right , screamed a sweet and gentle natured corporal , at the top of his oversized lungs , the first one to assemble a weapon , double down to the indoor range about a mile away with it , and get five bulls will get to lie in until oh six undred tomorrow .
the rest of you lot will be up at oh five undred for some invigorating pt .
as six oclock was the normal time that they were aroused from their exhausted slumber , that is if they werent already out and about doing some inane act of insanity , it wasnt so much that the winner won , it was that the rest lost .
if any of you , god forbid , ever manage to pass out from real training you will be able to do this in under a minute , blindfolded .
david and charlie joined forces , team work ten extra points , and with more luck than judgement they managed to assemble two weapons in less than ten minutes both weapons seemed to look right , butt at one end , hole at the other to let the rounds come out , and a slot in the middle for the magazine .
it was now time to show all and sundry that they had faith in their own workmanship .
they were joint first as they arrived at the range and stumbled inside and on a table they found an assorted pile of loaded magazines .
they found the right ones , and were about to snap them into place when both weapons were wrenched from their hands , and quickly the waiting instructors checked them over .
while it would seem that the instructors didnt mind them half killing themselves outside after all they were all volunteers , in here they didnt want them to actually kill themselves with an exploding , incorrectly assembled weapon , much too much paperwork .
with magazines now firmly clipped into place they stepped up to the firing line and whilst david would do almost anything for his best friend , an extra hours kip was something else , so five quick pulls on the trigger and he was the proud owner of an extra hours sleep .
sweet dreams .
they kept their substantive ranks and three weeks later , as just plain sergeant williams and equally plain lance corporal watkins they reported to the stirling lines for the first time , and they both had their heads held high .
only seven had finally finished the course , and out of them only five were finally accepted .
that was about average .
they survived basic training and received their converted who dares wins beret badges .
david then going on to sub specialise as a sniper , charlie as a medic .
it really didnt seem right for a person with charlies skill with a k bar a us marines fighting knife to choose to be a medic , but he was to make a fine one , even using his razor sharp knife on more than one occasion to help save lives , then they both joined a troop that had been involved in the embassy siege , so as the new boys on the block they had a lot to live up too , and they did , both quickly becoming indispensable members of their team .
during the falklands conflict david collected the first of his distinguished conduct medals .
he and his spotter were well camouflaged on the side of a hill covering his colleagues with his hand built snipers rifle , as they reconnoitred up close a coastal installation that the argentineans had constructed after they had occupied south georgia earlier that month .
plans to retake the island were well advanced , but a great deal of intelligence was still required and quickly , so they were quickly bundled into a special duties hercules at the ascension islands and carried out a halo parachute decent high altitude departure from the aircraft , low altitude opening of their parachutes over the island .
their landing was so accurate that david almost landed on top of the sbs special boats service corporal who was awaiting their arrival .
these men were the royal marines equivalent of the sas their motto being not by strength , by guile and the corporals small three man team had been inserted from a submarine a few days earlier , for a quickie recon .
they had then been diverted just as they were about to return to the submarine to join up with their army compatriots .
the now joint service recon went well , until it was time for them to exit the area .
as the team were stealthily making their way back along the floor of the valley below , david , high above , spotted a large contingent of argentinean soldiers heading their way , so his spotter radioed the patrol , which immediately went to ground .
the team were in a very precarious position but fortunately for them it must have been an argentinean training exercise , with hastily assembled conscripts , rather than a serious patrol .
there were an awful lot of them but most of them seemed to be more interested in some football result or other rather than looking for insurgents , but unfortunately it then suddenly seemed to be about time for their comfort break .
the argentineans really didnt seem to be in any hurry to move on , and it would only be a matter of time before his patrol was compromised so david , despite being well concealed high above , deliberately exposed his position to the conscripts below , hoping to distract their attention away from his friends , and praying that this was the first time that any of the conscripts had actually pulled a trigger , he opened up , clearing a much needed escape route for his comrades .
all the team got out , with most of them in one piece , but there must have been at least one regular soldier below because three rifle rounds found their marks , two in david , one in his shoulder and the other in his side breaking a couple of his ribs , and another giving his spotter a very nasty graze on the side of his head , knocking him unconscious .
he continued firing despite the agonising pain , not even pausing to self inject morphine , there just wasnt time , until finally , just as his team below made good their escape , a fourth round shattered the scope on his rifle , blinding him in one eye .
now really was the time to think of his and his spotters safety .
somehow , half dragging his now semi conscious colleague they made their way up over the top of the hill and around the enemy , with only his side arm and one usable arm and eye for protection .
fortunately they avoided detection and about three hours later they staggered into their now safe colleagues camp .
he was about to go into shock , and was suffering from loss of blood so charlie , now a full corporal grabbed his medical kit and prepared to give his friend an emergency blood transfusion .
he connected the tube directly onto the intravenous cannula already in davids arm , they all had a cannula inserted into their arm before each operation , and then it was taped over , just in case such a situation as this arose .
charlie patched david up as well as he could , which under the circumstances was way above his pay grade but it was enough so that they could all reach the pre arranged rendezvous point where a long range chinook swiftly lifted them off the island and onto ss ugandas waiting flight deck .
surgeons then completed charlies handy work .
major jake , their leader on that raid , who would very soon be ending up as the colonel of 22nd regiment sas , had no hesitation in recommending his staff sergeant for a medal , and charlie was also mentioned in dispatches .
apparently hed had a busy few minutes as well , when the exiting troops had come across a small group of conscripts foolishly taking a quick cigarette break .
they couldnt go around them so charlie had quietly gone through , ensuring that they all gave up smoking permanently , then a few minutes later , when they were all relatively safe , he had continued using his knife , but this time on his injured mates .
medical supplies may have been running low but not his new found skills .
the tri service medical team , which had been hastily embarked on ss uganda in the uk , included the qarancs queen alexandras royal army nursing corp prettiest nurse well david thought she was when he opened his good eye following surgery .
her name was caroline she told him , he wasnt really interested in her surname the padre back at base would soon be changing that .
they quickly became inseparable , and as he slowly recovered although his eye was still a particular worry caroline became his personal nurse , only leaving his side when other duties called .
after the sir galahad tragedy david , who was by now on the mend and classified as walking wounded , was moved to an empty first class cabin and didnt see her for four days .
it was an interminably long period of time , and although he understood that what she was doing was important he just wasnt used to this new feeling inside him , so when she finally managed to get the time to visit him , the first thing that he said to her , as she stood exhausted in the doorway was will you please marry me ?
later , when she had been suitably relaxed they went to find a padre .
david didnt have to wait until they returned to england too change her surname .
when the raf finally got the stanley airfield open for none active service aircraft , he was first flown by a medevac vc10 to a bmh british military hospital in germany .
there , with specialist equipment they sorted his eye out , as there was no requirement for a one eyed sniper in the regiment , then by a noisy old hercules to england .
they may be married but caroline was still doing her job on the uganda , so when it sailed majestically into harbour with caroline still on board , david was waiting proudly on the dockyard jetty with a smile on his face , and a leave chit and the keys to their newly rented flat in his pocket .
a sympathetic appointments clerk had even arranged for caroline to be transferred to his bases hospital , after a belated honeymoon of course , and david and caroline quickly settled down to military life as a married couple .
david did the long spanish language course and then expected to be sent on a quick rest tour to some friendly , spanish speaking country , as an adviser to their special forces .
he did , but to many countries , and for a very long time .
he was still operational , but more and more of his time was soon being spent training others , and he was very good at it .
he was a natural in fact 6 weeks here , 3 months there , it was the perfect life for them .
when he was at base , when not honing his skills on his new rifle , or passing on his knowledge to a younger generation , he was getting himself a name as a marksman of renown .
of course a member of the sas could not be seen shooting at international competitions , but he was there , in the background giving invaluable support .
as time marched on both david and caroline progressed well through the ranks , so when a young sniper fell off his motorcycle carolines nurses treated him , and david replaced him , and found himself , at very short notice , lying behind a sand dune watching a group of saddams republican guard bivouacking around their tanks .
he was by now a warrant officer 2nd class , and starting to feel his age , he was not that old he was just experienced , having more experience than the rest of his patrol , and instead of his trusty rifle he held a high tech laser designator in his hands , and it was sighted on what he estimated was the middle of the pack tank .
not that it really mattered too much to the majority of the bombs that were heading in the tanks general direction at that very moment they were dumb bombs .
as the armourer in charge of loading the bombs into one venerable old b52 bomber had told its pilot who was younger than his aircraft , if you manage to get this thing airborne by the grace of the curvature of the earth , and you find the target , i will give you a 100 guarantee that every bomb that releases will hit the ground , where , i havent got a clue , but somewhere .
when a b52 carpet bombs , be assured it requires an awfully large carpet , but some of the aircraft though were loaded with the newer smart bombs they had the ability to home in where davids designator was pointing , and this verily enhanced the bombardiers chance of actually hitting something , but unfortunately it was one of the dumber variety of bombs that arrived in their vicinity , its tail cone had either detached itself , or been knocked off by another bomb on exiting the aircraft , either way it took on the flying characteristics of a house brick and decided on a route of its own .
after tumbling through the sky it chose to land on a conveniently placed camouflage net , unfortunately the conveniently placed camouflage net in question was inconveniently placed over the top of one of davids patrol wagons , and the canvas didnt seem to slow down the 500 lb .
armour piercing bomb in the slightest .
the bomb itself had not armed , as its arming vane was still fluttering to earth somewhere else , but that did not matter in the slightest , anything of that weight and at terminal velocity was going to wreak havoc anyhow .
it passed through the canvas and the wagon in a milli second , causing the wagon , which held spare fuel and enough explosives to start a small war of its own , to erupt , and it didnt help matters that one of the other wagons was in its exploding circle , and so were seven of davids team .
david was fortunately close to neither vehicle , so leaving the designator pointing at the tanks he clambered into his own vehicle and returned to the scene of devastation .
there is absolutely nothing friendly about friendly fire , three of his team were dead , four others were very badly injured , and he had to assume that their position had been compromised , after all there were clouds of smoke now billowing up into the sky from the wrecked vehicles .
he quickly had the teams medic , who was fortunately only slightly injured , and the two remaining uninjured members of his team load the dead and injured into two of the surviving vehicles , and topping the vehicles up with all the remaining medical supplies , and most of the water , he sent them post haste back to safety , but david remained behind with his own truck , a small amount of water , a considerable amount of weapons and ammunition , and an even larger supply of explosives of every description .
he knew that it would take time for the iraqis to get organised , but they would eventually come and investigate and seek revenge so he set as many booby traps as he could around the wreckage site , and then slowly moved out after his men , every now and then planting more land mines and claymores in , and to the sides of their track , and despite being fairly well occupied with the remainder of the bombs raining down around him , one vigilant soldier had indeed noticed their predicament , and when the bombing had run its course , and some semblance of order was regained , he reported his observation to the surviving senior but very junior officer who was well out of his depth .
panicking , the officer dispatched a sizable force to exact retribution , but unfortunately most the men he sent were relatively inexperienced , only a couple of the ncos having ever seen any action before , in iraq , and they were woefully inadequately supplied , so when they finally caught up with david a day and a half later , there were considerably less of them than when they had started out , due to his handiwork .
he was waiting for them in a place of his choosing , and he was surrounded by weapons and ammunition if he was going to go down he would take as many of them as he could with him , but he didnt go down , in fact he didnt even get a scratch , but a lot of sadams elite did .
in the half light he put up a barrage of withering fire , changing weapons often , and sometimes firing two at once , and quickly the opposition decided that theyd had enough they had lost their officer and one of their ncos earlier that day , so thinking that they had come upon a sizable force they made a tactical decision run .
david was convinced that they wouldnt have stopped until they reached baghdad .
distinguished conduct medal number two , or more correctly a bar to his existing one was pinned onto his chest by a very senior royal the same one that had pinned on his first one a little while later , although his proudest moment came later in the year when caroline presented him with his new daughter cindy , and life again settled back down .
caroline left the qaranc to become a full time housewife and mother , she had been convinced that she would hate it but as it turned out she took to it like the proverbial duck to water , and with more time on her hands she became more and more involved in the welfare side of the regiment .
as the wife of a warrant officer it was expected of her .
david , after consulting with her chose to extend his time in the army , and as less and less of it was spent on the operational side , more and more of it was spent on planning and advising , until afghanistan became a hot spot .
david had actually met hamid shah several times in his travels , when hamid was a good guy , but now he was the right hand man of osama bin laden , with a lucrative side line in killing and maiming british soldiers with his own versions of road side ieds improvised explosive devices , so he was now a bad guy , a very very bad guy , so david was obviously the person of choice to be in kabul , the capital of afghanistan , co ordinating the hunt for him , and was on hand when they heard a rumour that shah was to have an important high level meeting in the compound of a prominent warlord in 4 days time .
an sas team was already on standby , all their gear packed , so a plan was quickly devised and they were ready for the off .
at the last minute briefing inside the helicopter hangar just prior to their departure , the rupert officer in charge a young lieutenant from one of the cavalry regiments on his first tour with the sas arbitrarily decided that david was too near his retirement too old to go on the actual mission .
david of course was just a tad upset , and they then had a full , frank and meaningful discussion .
david explaining that he was the only one who had actually met hamid shah face to face , but the ruperts reply was to wave a handful of blurred photos in his face , this continued on for several minutes until david asked for a word in private .
the remainder of the team left to finish loading their personal gear into the chinook special forces helicopter , and they then continued , but now with even more colourful language .
david quickly realised that not only was he getting nowhere fast , but also that british soldiers lives were at stake , so when the rupert stated adamantly that david would only go over his dead body , the statement was slightly inaccurate , what he should have said was over my unconscious body .
david hit him with a perfect right cross to the chin , and the officer went down like a sack of potatoes this was too important an issue to pamper to some young kids wish to glory hunt , then he grabbed his rifle and satchel and ran after the rest of the team .
staff sergeant charlie watkins gave his friend a quizzical look as he ran up the ramp of the burning and turning aircraft .
changed his mind david shouted above the noise .
charlie was not going to argue , after all he agreed whole heartedly with david , and so with a curt nod to the raf load master they were airborne , but not very high , just high enough to slide over the top of a pallet that had something large under a securely tied down canvas tarpaulin , on it .
when the pallet was safely hooked on , the pilots climbed their aircraft away , setting course for a very desolate place .
once safely en route at low level to keep away from the prying eyes of the taliban david called the team together and briefly related to them what had just transpired .
he had been thinking , and unfortunately the situation was too serious to be kept from them , after all he was now technically a criminal , and there was still time , just , to return to base and pick up the lieutenant , so he left them to discuss the matter and went to the rear of the chinook , and looked out over the shoulder of a gunner who was scanning the area behind them .
as he watched kabul disappear into the distance he thought that the lieutenant wasnt such a bad lad , in fact he had the makings of a good leader .
the only real problem that he had was that he was always seeking the glory for himself , and perhaps he was just a little intimidated by davids decorations and reputation .
when david turned round he saw charlie and the rest of the team organising their equipment and this verily confused him , they should still have been discussing his situation , so he went up to charlie and shouted over the noise what is the decision ?
what decision ?
charlie shouted back .
the rupert david shouted in exasperation .
sorry charlie replied , never heard a word you said , bloody noisy chopper .
slung under the aircraft , under a tarpaulin , was a very old and battered toyota pickup truck .
well it looked old and battered but it was anything but .
it was fitted with extra fuel tanks , and under its load of castor beans was a space for two of the team to slide into , along with their non civilian equipment .
the team themselves were dressed , and smelled , like normal everyday farmers off to find a market for their beans , but underneath their outer garments it was a different matter , kevlar vests , small arms , personal radios and other assorted military paraphernalia , including of course their fighting knives .
when the pilots arrived at their pre designated spot on the desolate landscape they circled , checking that they were not being observed , and then set the pallet down on a dirt track that was the only excuse for a road for miles around .
after releasing the load they then touched the rear wheels of the chinook down to allow david and his team , plus the load master and his team to disembark and then quickly lifted it off again .
when the toyota had been unloaded the load master called the chinook back in and quickly re embarked , and once airborne the now empty pallet was re slung by charlie and one of the team , and the pilots flew off into the distance .
a few miles away , finding a suitably deserted spot they jettisoned the now redundant pallet it was to be a one way trip for the toyota .
during the tiring and very boring drive over barren and desolate terrain they hardly saw a soul , but finally at dawn on the third day they were under camouflage netting and looking up at the compound .
the warlord had selected it well , it was impossible to look down into it , and the only gate into the place was around the other side , facing flat , open , and totally barren waste land .
during the day they rested and then that evening david , charlie and one of his troopers went on a scouting mission to find a spot for him to lie up and observe who went through the gate .
they found a suitable dip in the ground about a kilometre out from the gate , and by dawn david had himself well camouflaged , with only his snipers scope and the laser designator in front of him , and charlie and he were in contact by means of their new burst portable radios .
as they talked the radios automatically compressed their words and then at short intervals fired them off in quick bursts , on different frequencies , being expanded on arrival at the intended recipients radio into understandable language .
it took a little getting used to but once mastered it was worth it , the system was completely undetectable by any would be eavesdroppers , they could chat away to their hearts content .
about an hour after the sun had cleared the horizon , and the ground was nicely heating up , david felt a stirring , not in his stomach , but beside him .
he then felt a stabbing pain in his side , and it took him a few moments to fully understand what was happening .
what he had done was pick the only dip in the area that was home to a nest of vipers .
a female adder had found a hole in the side of his dip and given birth to her young .
as the air temperature rose , the by now fledgling adders sensed david and slowly came out to investigate , and then , one by one they sank their fangs into his torso .
whilst one bite from an adult viper might only be fatal to a child or an elderly person even without the antidote , a fit and healthy adult would most likely survive , just .
they would be incapacitated for several days , and feel like death for a week or so , but usually they pulled through , but unfortunately for david it wasnt just one , it was a whole nest of them , and slowly they continued to take turns to inject him with their venom .
after the first two or three strikes david seriously considered vacating the hollow , he knew that with his skills he had a better than even chance of making it to safety , even in the open countryside .
there were patrols of sorts out and about but nothing to serious and he knew that there was a phial of antidote in the toyota , so he should be ok , so quickly he took one final scan of the area through his scope before he made his escape , but to his horror he saw a cloud of dust in the distance , then another , and another .
the final total was eight vehicles , all coming in from different directions .
it looked as though the meeting was on , but even if he could call up an air strike before making his escape , which one should he tell them to target ?
after the first hit , the occupants of the remaining vehicles would be out of them and hot footing it in all directions across the scrubland , a one in eight chance of hitting hamid shah , good odds , for him , if he was indeed out there at all .
david knew that he had to be absolutely certain it was shah he couldnt afford to make a mistake and call in the jets to kill innocent farmers whose only crime was having a council meeting .
he knew then that he had to remain where he was and wait for them to arrive .
contacting charlie he explained his predicament , and of course charlie wanted to come and get him out , but david insisted that he had to stay put .
it would most likely cost him his life but he knew that it would be worth it if he succeeded , shah was an evil person .
in the end david had to give charlie a direct order to remain where he was , and then order the other two members of the team to restrain him if he refused .
he hoped that caroline would understand .
injecting himself with pain relief he continued to lay there , alone , unable to move , just watching as the land cruisers slowly came closer , and being bitten , time after time after time .
about an hour later the vehicles started to arrive at regular intervals .
he scoped the occupants of each wagon , no sign of hamid shah until around noon .
just as he was about to slip into oblivion the penultimate cruiser pulled up and the vip occupant exited from the wrong door , right into any waiting snipers sights .
it was a very basic mistake to make for a supposedly senior taliban leader , so david slowly started to scan the men in his vicinity , but he was slipping fast .
a breath of wind blew the ghutra that covered most of the heads and faces away from the face of one of his escorts , just for a second but that was enough , it was definitely hamid , he was one hundred percent certain , and david watched him as he escorted the decoy into a building that was fortunately in his line of sight , and disappear behind its stout wooden door .
with virtually the last of his energy david sighted the target designator on the door , locked it on , and then keyed his microphone .
target confirmed designator set and then he drifted off into oblivion .
it was planned that two royal air force tornados would then target the compound with their smart bombs , and then plan a was that if possible david would exit his position unnoticed in all the confusion .
plan b was that if that was not possible he would remain in place until after nightfall , and then make his escape under cover of darkness .
as any combat veteran knows the best of plans only last until the first gun is fired , or as in this case , the first viper strikes .
six bomb laden tornados swept in and they flattened the place , using practically every bomb in the dump , and even as the last of the bombs were falling charlie was dragging david out into the open , as the other two team members crouched down , weapons pointed at the compound , searching vainly for targets .
hamid shah , the warlord , and most of their compatriots were already on their way to a better world .
suddenly two apache assault helicopters , coming out of nowhere , came to the hover just in front of the two crouched team members , making them feel somewhat redundant .
the apaches , that had just happened to be passing , hosed anything that they thought might move with their 30mm chain guns , and reducing to scrap any vehicle or building left recognisable with their hellfire missiles and hydra 70 rockets .
charlie and the rest of the team then cut davids clothing away , charlie getting bitten by an adder that had taken up residence in davids under garments for his troubles , but ignoring his own pain he injected their only ampoule of antidote into his friends cannula .
it was completely ineffectual of course , he knew that but he had to try , then suddenly a dust storm arrived , caused fortunately by their chinook .
it thumped down only feet away from them , and it seemed to charlie that from every one of its many orifices it was pouring streams of lead at the compound , just in case there was a survivor in there who was feeling lucky , and they dragged david on board and were swiftly on their way to kabul at military emergency power settings flat out .
while david had been lying there being bitten , charlies screams for assistance , to anyone that would listen , were rewarded .
all military personnel recognise outstanding bravery when they come across it , and everyone that could , willingly leapt to his aid .
even a detachment of 23 regiment sas territorials on exercise in the welsh black mountains sent their moral support .
lt. fitzpatrick slowly regained consciousness in the deserted office and staggered to the hangar door , just in time to see his helicopter disappearing into the distance , and cast his mind back to the punch , he had been middleweight champion of his regiment for two years running so he knew a good punch when he felt one , and that was a good one , and he hadnt seen it coming .
perhaps it had been a little unwise of him to take on the senior warrant officer in that way , and it reminded him of one of those pearls of wisdom that his instructors at sandhurst used to pass on , a junior officer takes on the rsm or a warrant officer at his peril , unless he has thought long and hard about it beforehand .
gerald knew that he had thought neither long , nor hard , before he had tried to take on wo david williams and he now had an aching jaw to prove it but although the sas was a very unconventional service , striking an officer was still a serious offence , or so he thought .
a few minutes later when he returned to their headquarters block and much to the surprise of the occupants as they all thought that he was travelling at 140 knots in a south westerly direction he learned a lesson that would stay with him for the rest of his distinguished career , you do not take on david williams , or his ilk , lightly .
he was shown into the senior officers office and the door was firmly closed behind him .
half an hour later he came out , grasping his hastily hand written orders returning him to credenhill , hereford , their new regimental headquarters , for de briefing .
by the time they got david to some serious medical help , most of the damage had been done .
the venom from the fledgling vipers , although nowhere near as potent as a fully grown adult , had been flowing through his system for too long .
everywhere his blood travelled , the poison was taken , and did its worst .
his internal systems started to fail , but the medical staff worked miracles , spurred on to greater levels by the reports of his valour , and somehow they kept him alive .
when it was safe to do so david was transferred back to a specialist hospital in the uk , and caroline and cindy were constantly at his bed side .
it was a civilian hospital in central london so apart from his friends , and a few colleagues who just happened to be passing so they thought that would pop in for a quick chat , he saw no one in authority .
he wasnt arrested or punished in anyway , and if he hadnt known better the incident might never have happened , and lt. fitzpatrick was , according to his mates , last seen heading off to somewhere in iraq , as a liaison officer .
of course he had to tell caroline what had really happened , and she was behind him one hundred per cent , she was so proud of him .
if he lost his pension so what , they would survive .
after two months in the hospital he was deemed stable enough to be released into the care of the military medical services .
he was expecting to be moved to credenhill but he was wrong , he was transferred instead by sea king helicopter to a royal naval air station in cornwall .
hms seahawk has no connection with the special forces whatsoever , it is an anti submarine helicopter base , miles from anywhere , at the bottom end of cornwall , and that seemed to be the main reason why the powers that be had him sent there .
secondary for them , but fortunately extremely lucky for david was the fact that the stations smo senior medical officer , a surgeon commander , had extensive knowledge of exotic diseases and other related subjects , and one of his other related subjects was snake venoms and their effects .
surgeon commander beatty was in his element when david arrived , he hadnt really had a chance to practice his specialities on anyone since arriving at the base just over a year ago .
hed only had one case of an infected mosquito bite on a returning sailor .
she had received the bite on her elbow whilst on deployment with her squadron in the far east , and the ships m.o .
was having trouble getting it to respond to treatment .
it had then been decided to send her back to the cooler climes of cornwall where her squadron and boyfriend were based when not at sea .
caroline cindy had reluctantly returned to her army sponsored boarding school moved temporarily into a guest house in the nearby town of helston famous for its furry flora dance , and assisted when she could as commander beatty worked tirelessly on david , and he slowly made headway , improving davids quality of life , eventually getting him onto a drugs regime that didnt require constant drips .
it meant that david was more mobile , but there was only so much that the smo could do , what david really needed was his blood drained from him , filtered , and before being returned , all his vital organs thoroughly flushed through .
it sounded easy , after all mechanics do that all the time to car engines , the problem was that if they surgeons , not car mechanics tried it on a human being then that person would most likely die , unless they happened to be in a very expensive specialist hospital in new york .
cmdr .
beatty had requested that david be sent there as a matter of urgency , and usually in these sorts of cases it was a distinct possibility but every time he raised the subject with the army he met a brick wall .
something was afoot , and he found out that it was more than twelve inches when he submitted his final report .
he had stabilised david , he was out of danger and had a quality of life of sorts , if he took a fistful of pills and potions every day for the rest of his life , but cmdr .
beatty could do no more , so again he requested the funding to send him to america , with an implied threat that he would take it further if necessary .
the following saturday , as he was mowing the lawn of his married quarter he received a visit from a very senior army officer in civilian clothes .
out of deference to his rank , after all he did have scrambled egg senior officers braiding on the peak of his cap , they were bringing him into the loop .
he explained that the official reason that they would not be sending wo williams to america was that funding was being withheld because in the current financial climate , it was deemed not to be cost effective , in other words david was too near retirement , and if the smo was to force the issue one of two things would happen .
usually in these situations wo williams would be transferred back to his base where they would find him a cushy little number to see out his time , and then he would retire on a normal pension , or better still he could be medically retired immediately , on the recommendation of a senior medical officer .
he would then be on a full medical pension tax free , making him financially more secure , but unfortunately in davids particular case if he were to go the first route , and released back to his unit , he would face a court martial for striking an officer .
by now cmdr .
beatty knew most of the details of davids military history and his time in afghanistan although nothing about him striking an officer , and also knew that such bravery would normally go well rewarded , he had even overheard several of davids friends going on about him deserving the vc , and when he raised this point with the officer he wouldnt call him a gentleman , he was told in no uncertain terms that the hierarchy would insist that the officer involved would be pressing charges , so no medal .
it then slowly dawned on him that they would never let david return to mainstream military life , behind all this blustering was the fact that there was no way that a mere warrant officer would be allowed to become the most highly decorated person in the army , or any other service for that matter , and as he sat there dazed , cmdr .
beatty felt ashamed to be in the military how could the system treat such a brave a man like this out of pure jealousy ?
he guessed that there would never be a court martial , david and his colleagues would never be allowed their day in court , but he knew that they had him over a barrel .
if he made any trouble , david and perhaps his own service career would suffer , so he signed the forms that the stranger handed him and david quietly left the army .
david did not settle down well into civilian life , he had always been fit and active , and now he couldnt even put on his shoes without help from caroline .
he also had nothing to occupy himself with he really wasnt a jigsawry type of person .
caroline and he had purchased their own home several years previously , it was a detached 4 bed roomed bungalow in a quieter part of hereford , and the mortgage was now manageable , but they could still not afford to keep cindy at the private school in the long term without the help of the army grant , and that had unfortunately ceased on his retirement .
they could keep her at the school until the end of the current term but when the new one started she would have to go to the local comprehensive , and cindy was not a happy little bunny , she was only eleven but with the lower class sizes in the private sector she was streets ahead of her peers , she would have nothing at all in common with them .
the regiment of course hadnt forgotten david , it would be a long time before his exploits were forgotten , and about a month after his medical discharge , at a special ceremony at credenhill they presented him with his faithful hand built rifle .
it was a hand crafted .50 calibre bmg mcmillan tac 50 bolt action rifle , which had a proven effective range of over 1 miles , and it was the last thing that charlie had grabbed as they boarded the helicopter in afghanistan .
it was now residing in a beautifully polished presentation case , and was presented to him by the officer commanding 22 regiment sas .
he then promptly accepted it back from david , as it was to be given pride of place in the regimental museum , also it was doubted that the local constabulary would look favourably on his small memento of his time in the service , and after the ceremony the colonel also a guest made david an offer that he could not refuse , so he didnt , hoping that the extra money would be the solution to cindys problems .
he of course realised that he was being looked after but it didnt matter , it gave him back some of his dignity .
his body might be letting him down but his brain was just fine , a little rusty perhaps but all it needed was a purpose in life to get it ticking again .
the colonel , realising that davids on going treatment must take priority , kept him close to the office .
on a good day david would put in a full days work , but on a bad day it would be a couple of hours at the most , and slowly the bad days were increasing , although he didnt mind , he knew exactly what he was taking on when he made david the offer .
david had once saved his life , now he was going to save his metaphorically speaking , after all he could now well afford it .
the colonel reckoned that what david really needed was a large dose of sun , so as he spoke to andrew , that first time , an idea gelled in the back of his mind , then it burst forth david he growled , as he slammed the phone down , go and get your bags packed , you are off for about a month , pack for the sun and be back here in an hour .
it was make or break time for david , he was having one of his fairly bad days but if he could just pull this off the colonel hoped it would boost davids self esteem no end , and perhaps be the turning point for him , and as david drove home to collect his bags the colonel rang caroline at work , she was now working full time for the army welfare service .
he explained his idea and suggested that if things didnt perhaps go as well as he hoped , then she might like to take a spot of holiday entitlement and have a short break in the sun to support her husband .
sat at her desk caroline burst into tears , she hadnt realised just how well thought of her husband was .
total strangers were coming up to her on the street , or in the supermarket , asking her how he was , and offering their help , several with the added proviso of anything , anytime , anywhere , but david really had only one genuine guardian angel , the colonel , he was her husbands life saver .
he had started to become quite depressed before the colonels offer but now he was a different person , mentally if not physically , but unfortunately he was now becoming a little bored with just working in the office he needed to be stretched further , mentally and maybe also a little physically .
perhaps this indeed was just what the doctor ordered , and the colonels parting comments to her had been the final decider , if anything does go wrong , at least he will be working in a hospital , and charlie will be there to look after him .
caroline used up some of her flexi time and left to help her husband pack , and to say goodbye , just like the good old days .
the regiment had not been the same without david around , who seemed to be seeing out his time in the army with the royal navy in cornwall , so when his time was up charlie didnt re enlist .
he left the army , and after visiting his friend in cornwall he got a job in personal protection with the colonel .
chapter 7 good morning boss david groaned as he came to a stop beside my bed , i thought he was speaking to the colonel but no , it was me he was addressing .
sorry about the way i look but the pills should kick in soon .
he then shook my hand , surprisingly firmly as it turned out , and continued is it all right if i take a seat ?
as a refusal might have been construed as a form of physical torture i agreed with his request , at the same time pondering the fact that if the pills didnt kick in , he wouldnt be getting out of that chair any time soon not without medical assistance anyway , and the colonel pulled marias chair across and sat beside him .
after formal introductions he gave me a brief outline of what davids duties would be , and then went on to explain that in his firm the client was always the boss , and david would be calling me that , if i was in agreement , although to the rest of the team i would be just sir or mr michaels .
as the colonel continued on with his welcome speech i did what could arguably be described as the bravest thing in my life , i interrupted him !
he was shocked , nay mortified , nobody had done that to him , not in a very long time , and david smiled , perhaps the pills were starting to kick in .
first things first i stammered , davids health , are you sure he will be alright out here ?
and then the colonel and i then had an in depth conversation about david , with david sitting there amiably listening on .
i agree , he said , that he looks a bit ropey at the moment , but i put that down to lack of sleep and with tongue in cheek jet lag one hours time difference with england ? ? ? .
he will be fine in a little while he promised , and thankfully he was .
we then came to an agreement as to who was responsible for what , david wise .
the colonel assured me that his companies insurance would cover all eventualities , but i doubted that , a good pre existing illness clause would surely get them off the hook , so i made it perfectly clear that if there was ever going to be a problem , in the first instance i would take care of things .
i was certainly not going to lie around waiting while some pen pusher in tim buck too made up his or her mind whether david was to be treated or not , while david was struggling to draw his last breath .
i had no intention of having him terminate his contract with life on my watch , and after the colonel departed david suggested that we have a more in depth chat later , which was an excellent idea as a veritable queue was forming at my door .
maria was the first in , apparently she had arrived for work only to find in her mind at least utter confusion in her office .
shed had a quick chat with her new minders and then contacted her hospital administrator is this a takeover bid already , i asked myself ?
to arrange for a desk , chair and telephone extension for david , and suitable chairs and a coffee table for the heavies sorry close protection operatives .
following maria it was george and millies turn i really do think that i should have traffic lights installed and they were all dressed up with nowhere to go or so i thought .
george then explained that he was now fit enough to leave hospital , in fact he had been for a little while , but millie had , up until now , though it wise to keep an eye on me .
there was enough chaos and confusion in the financial world without me adding my ten pennth or billion or so although he went on to explain that they wouldnt be going too far .
apparently while george was immobilised millie and he had decided that life really was too short , so they were going to go for retirement big time .
word was now out in the press anyway of who and what he was , so there really was no going back to the old ways .
then he went on to explain that as he had been laying there in his enforced idleness he had fallen in love again , and as millie was sitting beside him with a smile on her face , i gathered that it must be another aeroplane .
correct , it was a north american mustang , or to be more precise it was a p51k powered by a packard built rolls royce merlin engine .
it turned out that it was a cavalier aircraft corporation conversion , so it had had all the military bits and pieces removed and modern avionics fitted .
during the conversion a passenger seat had also been installed just behind the pilot , in place of the fuselage fuel tank and military radio , and it would be all his in just a few weeks .
he also just happened to have a print out to hand , complete with photos of the machine in question it really did look the biz , but where on earth are you going to keep it ?
i asked .
thats the easy part he chuckled , ive just bought it an airfield of its very own .
he handed maria the co ordinates , and using google earth she had a rather dilapidated looking airfield on her laptops screen in seconds .
it was situated a little further down the coast , in the costa del sol region , near to a place called san miguel del mar .
it had been a joint spanish air force navy establishment in its heyday , although the navy had been noticeable by its absence for quite a few years prior to its closure .
apparently , in its final years as an air base it had been used more and more as the unofficial retirement home for senior air force generals , with just the odd mirage 111 , f1 , or c130 hercules popping in to justify its existence , but with the introduction of the f a 18 into the air forces inventory , the new aircraft proved to be too technically advanced and noisy to warrant major investment in the airfields infrastructure , so in the early nineties the base was de commissioned and put up for sale on the open market .
a civilian security company then took possession of the base on behalf of the government , and since then not a lot of interest had been shown in it by anybody .
the problem was that land thereabouts was relatively cheap and plentiful , and the village of san miguel del mar had , to put it bluntly , passed its sell by date .
it had definitely seen better days , and as the fishing fleet dwindled , so had the youth of the town .
a modern international airport was within an hours drive of the airfield , and a small but thriving private airfield was within twenty minutes flying time , so no one wanted the land , runways , or the by now very dilapidated harbour until george saw the advertisement .
it was love at first sight , and he purchased it , sight unseen , three weeks later at a special price of course .
he retained the existing security company to keep it secure for him , and hired a specialist company to titivate the main runway , some of the taxiways , and one of the hangars for his p51k , and millie had her input of course .
as there was a total dearth of habitable accommodation on the site she found a firm on the internet that supplied luxury mobile homes , the type that had tiny wheels but nowhere to go , and had them create a temporary home for them , until something more permanent could be sorted out .
to start with there would be six units , including a lounge and bedroom for themselves , plus guest rooms , kitchen and an office .
there was also to be a small swimming pool and jacuzzi outside with plenty of room to expand .
they would definitely be slumming it in luxury , and whilst their new home was being sorted out they were off to convalesce on a caribbean cruise , but of course i would always be welcome there , whenever the urge took me .
it was then loads of hugs and kisses and a handshake from george and they were off just like that .
the next one in , well she had actually walked in during georges vivid description of his new aeroplane , and promptly fallen asleep in the chair , was alice .
she was missing her bert the least she could have done was fallen for a cuthbert or algernon , and also her place in the orchestra was still waiting , so it was reluctantly agreed that she would depart for cooler climes later that day , after all i now had maria , plus david and his team to look after me , and i also suspected that she was raring to have a go at some serious retail therapy , her new motto , if youve got it , try and spend it !
after alice came roger and jeannette , or rather spotty jean as i would be calling her from now on .
lovely to see you winnie and the dogs doing fine i asked ?
yes they all were , but there was a slight problem jeannette had developed an allergic reaction to them .
well only to bonnie and clyde , but that was enough , and in a way i was pleased , not that jeannette sorry spotty jean was suffering , but that bonnie and clyde would be moving on .
they had been with them for nearly three months and i was getting worried that they wouldnt recognise me when i finally got them back .
it wasnt an insurmountable problem , and after a nice chat with rog and jean at some distance from her of course charlie was volunteered by david to drive to their home and collect the troublesome duo , poor charlie was not going to be getting much sleep today .
he was then to deliver them to the mascota pet centre that we used when we were off in england visiting the children .
bonnie and clyde just loved america , who owned it , she always spoiled them rotten , and even when they only went to visit begonia , the resident vet , or the peluquera for a shampoo and trim they always seemed happy to be there .
finally it was the turn of the matre d , sorry ward manager .
good news well it might be for him you are off to america in ten days time .
that came as a bit of a shock to me as i was getting quite used to all the machines surrounding me , they were like family .
i was even beginning to give them pet names , perhaps i could adopt one when i finally left !
that evening alice went off with tears in her eyes and plastic in hand to dear old blighty .
maria was really getting into the swing of things a gulfstream iv g400 was waiting at the airport to whisk her away in luxury .
it was really a bit o.t.t of course but as the air taxi service manager explained it was short notice , and it now seemed that i had an account with a 24 hour global air taxi company , any type , any size , anywhere dont people take the train anymore ?
for my peace of mind , the first thing that i did when i had five minutes to think was to get david checked over by a phlebotomist .
not only did the name sound painful but she was as well , in fact she turned out to be a right pain in the arm !
roll up your sleeve please , and in went the needle , and out came an armful of blood , which was quickly sent away for analysis .
they found out that one of davids pills was really only suitable for temperate climates , it didnt like the heat one little bit , so a quick pill change and within a day they promised that he would pass for a human being in subdued lighting , and despite me being a pain in the arm to him , david and i got on well .
he explained that normally he would go through the procedure with me , about what i should do if i was threatened , or if this , or that , situation arose , but as i was firmly strapped to a bed he would skip those bits for the time being , and as he and his team settled in , david started to spend more and more time in my room .
his role was not very labour intensive so we would chat about our families and life in general and of course put the world to rights at the same time , although he never pushed the bounds of professionalism , and it certainly helped to pass the time for me .
in a soppy moment i even had maria with the colonels connivance fly caroline out in luxury of course for a surprise weekend break with him , cindy could come along as well if it wasnt going to be one of those weekends .
the following saturday i met caroline and cindy , they both seemed extremely nice , and an idea began to form in my mind .
early days yet but it was there .
chapter 8 the transfer to america was a logistical nightmare .
all i wanted them to do was just give me a jab , put me in a box and send me off by dhl , but apparently there are strict rules about transporting livestock , and i would be breaking most of them , so the nightmare began .
first a team of specialists flew in from states side , and then over the next few days they gradually altered my medication so that i would be more able to withstand the transfer , both physically and mentally , and also to prepare me for what was to come when i finally arrived there .
i would also have to be transferred off of my bed like bed and placed onto a special stretcher , hopefully without permanently paralyzing me in the process , and all those wonderful machines that i had grown to love or hate would then slowly have to be replaced with special lightweight ones , specially designed for use in air ambulances something to do with voltages , plug sizes or whatever .
once i was stable , it was into a helicopter for the short trip to a waiting boeing 727 , and when i was safely strapped into this flying ambulance we were on the move , i wondered if it had blues and twos on its roof .
it must have , as there was no waiting around for an available slot , air traffic control just carved one , and soon we that was me , alice , maria , david and charlie , plus a host of doctors and nurses were on our way .
alice , maria and the medical staff were obvious choices to come on board the aircraft with me but david and charlie were with me ostensibly to ensure that there was a smooth handover to their colonial counterparts when we arrived in new york , but in reality it was my way of saying thank you to them for doing all those little extras which they willingly did on occasions .
charlie had fallen in love with bonnie and clyde when he had transferred them to the kennels it wasnt a hard thing to do , and i wasnt surprised that when he had a few days off he hired a beach apartment subsidised by yours truly and took them on a holiday .
they all then spent four hectic days cavorting around the beach the fact that charlies on off girlfriend had flown in for a bit of sun as well was totally irrelevant , but were was robin ?
he was already in america waiting for me .
as i lay there lightly sedated , and listening to the gentle hiss of aluminium sliding through the rarefied air i became aware of a commotion going on around me , and it wasnt me that they were commoting over .
the three doctors , whom i was paying loads of dosh too , to be on board to look after me , very quickly lost interest in that fact .
they were very worried , i was very worried , charlie was very worried , in fact everyone on board the aircraft was very worried about david .
by now we were well over half way to the big apple and it appeared that several of davids pills were throwing a wobbly big time these must have been the ones that didnt like altitude , and he quickly regained the pallor of our first acquaintance .
once the doctors had been brought up to speed ugh another saying that i hate on his recent medical history by charlie , and i confirmed that i would initially be covering the cost of any treatment they were on the radio pronto .
there also must have been quite a comprehensive first aid box on board because after a needle full of different concoctions was emptied into his arm he seemed to stabilize .
two of the doctors then had a quiet chat with me again , did i realise that what david really needed was a full system flush through or words to that effect , and it was going to be very expensive .
here i was lying in my own luxurious piece of hired hardware , and all that they were worried about was a few extra shillings , sorry cents on the bill .
damn the expense i told them , go for it , and so as the pratt and whitney engines wound up , to push the rest of the aircraft to its maximum permitted airspeed , flat out in other words , preparations were being made for two patients to be offloaded at jfk , and as i lay there , all but totally ignored , i called maria over and had her make arrangements for caroline and cindy to be flown over and accommodated close to davids hospital .
i didnt care what sort of aircraft they used , just as long as it was fast .
there was no delay when we entered american airspace , the pilots carried out a straight in approach and suddenly we were down , and when we came a screeching halt , there were no polite after you , oh no , after you please medics came streaming on board and david , with charlie in tow , was whisked away , to the accompaniment of a cacophony of sirens .
i had briefed charlie before we landed on what i expected , and he almost hugged me .
he had my verbal piece of plastic in his hand , all he had to do was get david sorted out , and after the lord mayors procession came the dust cart , or to be more precise me .
i was again lightly sedated and then the reverse of how i had gotten into the aircraft was carried out , but there were no sirens for me , and on arrival at my new abode they didnt even let me have a good nights sleep , or even a cup of tea before they started .
i was wheeled in through the front doors and straight into theatre , where i was to meet up with robin , or at least a part of him , later on .
the team that had flown over the week previous , and had accompanied me over on the 727 had prepared me well i was all ready for the cut and thrust that lay ahead , and so was robin .
he was in a nearby ward waiting for the word to be moved to an adjacent theatre but first things first .
very carefully they removed the remaining slivers of disc that had been edging ever closer to my spinal column , and then equally carefully rolled me over , in a specially designed frame , and handed me over to the next team .
this team then carried out a liver allograft liver transplant on me .
about 60 of robins liver his right lobe was installed in me , after of course first taking out my old one .
it is called a living donor liver transplant ldlt , which is more complicated than a normal transplant , but the chances of rejection , or complications for me were greatly reduced , and within four to six weeks robins liver should have returned to full function , and finally , before sewing me back up , the plumbers moved in and did some fancy knife work on my kidneys and a few other bits and pieces that they found lying around inside , and once they had finished the needlework millie would have been very proud of it the machines were unplugged and hey presto , i worked .
well i think that is what happened i was sound asleep at the time .
i was in theatre for about twelve hours , and comatose for a considerably lot longer time than that , but , as my mind wandered about , just before i re entered the real world i suddenly thought , isnt it quiet , and it was .
there was none of the clackety clack , or hufferty pufferty machines doing their jobs keeping me alive , there was just silence , and it was lovely .
perhaps i wouldnt adopt one of them after all .
when i opened my eyes , either the surgeons had done their jobs and i would see sheila , sorry alice , or i would see st peter , so risking it i gingerly opened them and alice looked beautiful , and although yanks are ok they cant furnish out a suite for nuts .
my room looked just like a hospital room , boring i thought , i must be on the mend .
alice explained to me that i had been sedated for three days following the operations , and in that time most of my bodily functions had started functioning again .
the rest were expected to after a coke and a plate of hamburger and fries , and she also had the latest news from charlie david was also out of theatre and on the mend .
he had received the operation that he should have had six months ago , it would take some time but his prognosis was good , and caroline and cindy also sent their thanks , best wishes , and loads of kisses .
that was all well and good i thought , but where were davids colonial counterparts ?
they turned out to be a bit more in your face than their continental cousins .
admittedly they were nice , very nice in fact , very much like david and his team , except that they didnt wear jackets well not in the hospital anyway and were dripping artillery and militia paraphernalia from every imaginable attachment point .
a few days later one of them even showed me why they couldnt wear shorts , a back up pistol strapped to one ankle , a throwing knife to the other .
robin was wheeled in to see me the next day , along with his girlfriend well she used to be his girlfriend .
it had been his idea about the ldlt in the first place and although i had half heartedly tried to talk him out of it , he was adamant , and he was now well on the road to recovery .
he also had two pieces of important news for me , one , his girlfriend was now his wife , grand display of huge engagement and wedding rings they got married just before my allograft , just in case , and the second ... ... stop , let me guess , im going to be a grandfather .
if i had it wrong and they had just got a new puppy i was in serious trouble but no , the six month bump on my new daughter in law was a dead giveaway .
they had obviously found the time for that weekend .
david and i were making good progress in our respective hospitals , and caroline and cindy commuted many times over the following few weeks to keep me up to speed with his progress , as they were in no hurry to fly back to the uk , they had just made caroline redundant was it overstaffing or sour grapes ?
and cindy was now on her summer holidays .
it was three weeks into my great american adventure alice , robin and his new wife emma were winging their way home , in an executive air ambulance of course , when i had a brainwave , so i rang vicente .
i didnt know what the time was in spain but for the amount of euros that i was paying him it must be about the same time as here , so let him earn his shekels .
he answered the phone after the second ring and after the usual pleasantries i asked him to look into scholarships .
certainly he replied , not a trace of sleep or surprise in his voice , i will fax maria with some details within the hour .
fifty seven and a half minutes later i rang david and asked him if he was up for a short trip , an hour later the four of them were in my room , david in a wheelchair .
forgive me if you think i am interfering but , ... ... . , i then explained about the scholarship for cindy .
cindy and caroline hugged and kissed me then both burst into tears , and as we chatted about it i had another brainwave part of cindys wider education must surely include a trip to disney world , and when they returned from their educational experience it was almost time for us to fly back to spain .
david and i were both in a safe enough condition to undertake the flight back over the pond , i had given david the choice of going back to england , but after a chat with caroline and cindy he decided to take up my offer of returning to my hotel hospital , only this time as a patient , where his girls could put in some serious sun worshiping time , mind you charlie was the real winner out of all this he was being paid top dollar , as they say on this side of the oggin another quaint old nautical expression , but he was looking after the wrong person .
on the flight back i had a long talk with maria her next project was going to be to find me somewhere to live .
as i had given doris the villa i was of no fixed abode so when i was finally fit enough to leave the hospital , hopefully in about three months time , i needed somewhere to park my backside .
i had been thinking about it a lot recently and realized that i could have as many homes as i wanted , anywhere in the world , but no , i wanted to stay in spain , that is where my memories of sheila were plus i liked the heat .
maria was relieved at that , she had obviously been thinking along these lines too as she had myra to think of .
we then had a long talk about myra , would it not be better for her , i suggested , if she went to a private school ?
i know she is young but at least she would have stability , i suspected that we would be doing quite a lot of travelling in the future .
she tried to raise the question of fees but i pointed out that as her employer i would make it one of her p.a .
perks vicente would be pleased and so in the end we decided that in relation to the first issue she would look into suites in suitable hotels in the valencia region .
in the short term this would be perfect for me , it would give me time to look around for something more permanent .
on the second issue , of myra , she promised to think about it !
we arrived back in spain in the early evening and were met by davids replacement , rodney .
hello boss , please call me rodders , i think not , and as i was being wheeled from the aircraft for short trips i was now allowed into a wheelchair to the waiting helicopter , vicente approached me .
why ?
i didnt pay him to sit around airports on the off chance that i might be passing through .
i then saw his face this was business , not pleasure , and as we lifted off , and headed out towards the hospital he started ... . chapter 9 george and millie really enjoyed their cruise , and when it was finally over they went directly to their new home .
they arrived tanned and relaxed at san miguel del mar for the very first time , and found a semi usable airfield , a very nice temporary living area , an exceptionally beautiful p51k parked in front of a rusty old hangar , and marcus their new p.a. , millie had found him on line .
he was perfect she had told george , he can do all the things that you dont want to do around the place .
george thought that marcus was going to be kept very busy , and both of them were ecstatic , he because of the ww2 fighter , and she because the pool was much larger than she expected she was still a feet and inches type of girl , and there were also about twenty people waiting to meet them .
the security guards at the gate would keep out unwanted visitors so these , they correctly assumed , were wanted , and millie put her foot down important things first , toy last , so they met with the two people from the mobile home company .
george dutifully looked at all the rooms , the pool and the jacuzzi with millie , then signed the appropriate forms and they left the mobile home people .
millie , with george sulkily in attendance then talked with three people from the property management company .
they would be looking after the cleaning , shopping and cooking for them .
in fact two of them were their new cook housekeepers but george darling if we only have one we would have to give her days off , and think of my nails , and so thirty minutes after arriving , with all the trivia out of the way , george walked over to his new baby , leaving millie and marcus to deal with the rest of moving into their new home .
womans work !
now down to the serious stuff .
on day five of their three week cruise that george had booked on line without telling millie , the cruise liner just happened to be passing florida so george asked millie , in an off handed sort of way , if she would mind if he went for a quick spin in a dual control mustang , that just happened to be based close by .
sensing that she had been set up she enquired and how long will that take ?
oh only about five days he replied , and so that evening he went reluctantly on his way well until he was out of sight of millie anyway and did a conversion course on duel control tf51s at kissimmee .
for five exhilarating days he lived and breathed tf51s .
he spent every available hour either in a classroom , in the hangar , or in the air , and at the end of the fifth day he had his letter of authorization in his hand .
his new war bird was immaculate , and the other fifteen people were there to get him airborne .
first he had to sign some papers for the aircraft , which got rid of three of them , and then he signed for a large truck load of equipment and spares , another two were on their way .
another scribble , this time for a tanker full of fuel no half measures here and another two were gone , quickly followed by the man with the cans of assorted oils and greases .
that left seven people to help him get into the air , more than enough .
it took them just over an hour but he then had the best forty minutes of his life , and that included his honeymoon .
three of the remainder had agreed to remain with him for three months , servicing the aircraft and generally sorting out the hangar and workshops .
he was putting them up in the local hotel , which unfortunately was a bit run down , but george reckoned that if they didnt like it then they could jolly well lump it for the amount of money that he was paying them they were lucky that he didnt have them sleeping in a tent under the aircrafts wing .
over the next few weeks millie was happy homebuilding , doing her embroidery , and making new friends .
a few of the neighbours , not used to the airfield being used as an airfield , had come over to investigate what the strange noise was all about , conveniently forgetting that they had all been willing to buy their properties at a reduced price because of its close proximity , but now they didnt want it to reflect in the the selling price , but after some sweet talking and a cuppa , and then another , and another , everything was fine and george blissfully continued making the noise .
he also kept on pestering millie to go up with him in that new passenger seat , but wisely she kept on repeating when you get more experience , then i will , so he got more experience , in fact he got quite a lot more experience over the ensuing weeks , and even devised his own aerobatic routine .
it not only looked quite impressive from the ground , but it made him feel invincible in the air , so one day , after a particularly good flight he asked millie to come outside and watch his routine .
he , or rather marcus had had an air band radio fitted into his toyota now permanently minus the caravan and this enabled millie to chat to him as he taxied out to the end of the runway and take off .
he did the display to perfection , and it suitably impressed millie no end .
after landing , as he taxied in , he had an idea , he checked the fuel contents , just about half full , perfect , so as he deplaned he told the mechanics that he might be going up again soon so to leave the machine outside for a while , and after they had a quick mug of coffee it took him only a few minutes to persuade millie to go for that quick flight .
as they walked hand in hand back to the aircraft i was boarding my 727 in new york , and millie was clutching her brand new bone dome , and she was verily excited .
he prised her into the rear seat and strapped her in .
after connecting her intercom lead he quickly clambered into the front seat and prepared himself , and the mustang for flight , but when he was ready to start the mighty packard merlin there was no sign of the mechanics , so against all the rules he started the engine , that will bring them out he thought , and it did , at the run .
first out was the junior mechanic , who he signalled to remove the chocks , and as he started to taxi out the senior mechanic who must have been taking a comfort break came out of the hangar , overalls around his ankles , frantically waving his arms .
george was in no mood for an argument so he continued to taxi out to the end of the runway , but as he lined up for take off the senior mechanic came onto the radio and he was not a very happy little bunny .
there was no one on the fire extinguisher , i havent finished pre flighting the aircraft , ... ... . , halfway through the tirade george switched off the radio , he was in a happy mood and no one was going to spoil it .
he had millie on board and he was really going to impress her .
... ... .although i have refuelled her , and i hope that you have taken out the ballast weights from under the passenger seat .
the mechanic got no reply , he had tried his best , but after all it was georges aircraft so the three of them stood watching as the sleek machine gracefully lifted off from the runway .
once airborne george set the mustang up for the display routine , and he started it with a flourish .
millie was laughing and screaming alternately , she was having a ball , and george was really pleased that millie was happy , but at the back of his mind he sensed that something was not feeling quite right , it must be millies extra weight he thought .
as he came in for the grand finale they were inverted upside down and he eased the stick back slightly , and they started plummeting towards the ground in a half loop .
he had done this manoeuvre multitudinous times before , and from the ground it was always spectacular to watch , especially when he came out of the bottom of the loop at what seemed like but really wasnt feet from the ground , and roared off out to sea .
george had mentally made allowances for millies extra weight , and so started the manoeuvre slightly higher than usual , but half way down , and with the control column getting closer to his stomach george had a thought , the ballast weights damn or words to that effect , not too big a problem he thought , the fuel tanks were only half full , that would more than compensate .
he quickly glanced down at the fuel gauge , and there it was where it should be , only it was reading almost full oops again or words to that effect .
as he struggled to pull the stick back into his spine , the now not quite so nimble fighter slowly started to ease out of its dive , and agonisingly slowly it levelled out , this time with the propeller tips quite literally just a few feet above the ground , and then the beautiful fighter started to wallow about sickeningly its centre of gravity was way out of limits .
with the extra weight , and the increased g force , it made the mustang virtually un flyable .
virtually , but not totally , and somehow george managed to claw the nose of the aircraft up slightly , and it started to climb , not a lot , but a little .
in the middle of the airfield was a rusty old radio mast .
it should have been painted with bright red and white bands to bring it to the attention of passing pilots , and about two metres shorter , for george and millies sake .
the gleaming p51k , with two very lovely people on board careered into the top of the mast , and it was instantly turned into a flaming ball of junk .
chapter 10 as we made our way to the hospital hotel vicente ran through the details for me , and somehow i felt responsible , if i hadnt encouraged them to go for it , perhaps they would still be alive .
after we had landed he stood sombrely on the helipad and said ill give you a few days to settle back in , and then i will come back and sort things out .
sort things out ?
i enquired .
sorry he replied , i thought you knew , you are their sole heir , and just like that i was the ninth richest person on the planet , and the owner of one rather dilapidated old airfield , but i didnt have very long to mourn .
whilst i was in america i had started to miss bonnie and clyde big time , then i had a brilliant idea , they could come and move in with me at the hospital .
i was now on the mend so all the major bits of medical hardware were now things of the past .
maria doubted it , but she would make enquiries , but charlie , who was paying one of his flying visits remembered that there were a few suites on the ground floor , and they all had patios that led directly out into the hospital grounds .
maria contacted el director in person , and he was righteously mortified , until maria agreed with him totally , and told him that she would then ring around and find out what the other hospitals could offer .
suddenly he thought it was a wonderful idea .
he should have thought of it himself he spluttered , after all the ground floor suites are much more expensive , sorry , definitely more suited to my needs now that i was off life support , and hygiene was not so critical .
was he calling my dogs dirty ?
then i remembered all those muddy paw prints , yep , and so when i arrived in my new room , in my new super duper , all singing , all dancing , top of the range electric wheel chair what no loo , they were waiting for me .
as we were leaving the states charlie had apparently rung ahead and arranged for one of the new team , who were already in country , acclimatizing sunbathing , to go and collect them from the kennels , and they had phenomenal memories it was all the new minders could do to keep them off me , and once they had quietened down slightly charlie took them off for a long walk , to tire them out , whilst i was given the full cooks tour .
i had my room of course , complete with french windows that led onto the patio then came a lounge , fully equipped with all the things that a lounge should have , but renamed the kennel el director had had a brainwave .
as the lounge also had french windows that led onto the same patio , he had a dog flap installed in one of them .
he then had four very tastefully designed but not very big no dogs beyond this point signs made , colour co ordinated to match the furnishings of course , and placed either side of each of the rooms internal doors .
this he hoped would satisfy any prying health and safety inspector .
it was an excellent idea , but there was only one small problem , we had been very lax pet owners , we had never taught either of them to read .
back to the tour , maria had , while we were still in america , made a command decision , and i was wheeled into the adjacent suite ! !
the first room was now her office , complete with reception area and the second was for rodney and his boys .
it was to be their rest room when they werent at their station in the main corridor outside my door , or on the patio .
are there any rooms left in this hospital for other paying guests i wondered .
actually there was , but davids suite was the next one along and i was paying for that one as well ! ! ! ! !
when the nurses finally managed to get me into my bed , and the doctors had finished prodding and poking me around , and admiring the needlework of their americano compaeros , i closed my eyes and had a few minutes to myself , time to remember george and millie .
i had now started to look on them both as friends rather than just ships that pass in the night , and i would miss them dearly , especially millie with all her financial wizardry .
i pressed my beeper for maria and she quickly entered .
i need a few words with vicente , will you please contact him on his mobile .
i can do better than that she replied , he is still in my office using the telephone .
so in two shakes of a gnats tail vicente entered , and quickly ran through what he thought would be happening over the next few days .
there was already a spanish air accident investigation team at the crash site , but as the mustang was an american built historic aircraft they had also requested assistance from their american counterparts .
they had far greater experience when dealing with this type of aircraft , and two experienced investigators were already on their way over , then he got very embarrassed , when the remains of george and millie are removed , they will have to be taken away for a post mortem examination .
that shocked me , i had assumed that they had already been removed , but no , the investigators had to carry out their investigation first , removing their bodies might destroy valuable evidence .
i then told vicente that after all the necessary formalities had been carried out , and their bodies were released , would he please arrange their funerals , if of course it didnt conflict with their wishes , and i wanted to be there .
after vicentes departure bonnie and clyde bounded in , but not quite as bounding as before , and within fifteen minutes clyde was sound asleep in their basket , curled up into one of sheilas jumpers how either of those items had arrived in my room i hadnt a clue , and bonnie was asleep on a folded up blanket against my right foot .
from then on that was where they slept , no matter how hard the nursing staff tried , every time they left the room bonnie was back up on my bed , and the heavy mob also had a new clause in their job descriptions , dog walkers to the boss , not that they took much persuading .
mr agrampara arrived with a mr carmichael george and millies english solicitor , marcus their p.a .
, and vicente , four days later , and after introductions , and the obligatory commiserations , marcus was sent off for a chat with maria , and we got down to business .
mr carmichael read the will , there were a couple of minor bequeaths only a couple of million or so and the rest was left to me , including that damned airfield .
then it was mr agramparas turn , and there was something definitely wrong with him , something was not quite right , then i got it not a tardis in sight , just an ordinary looking briefcase .
removing a dvd from the briefcase he inserted it into my little black books disk drive , and after pressing a few keys , and sticking his thumb over my reader , it whirled and clicked for a few moments , and then i really was the ninth richest person in the world just like that .
i of course had to sign some papers , it could not quite be as easy as that , but ten minutes later it was all done and dusted and mr agrampara and mr carmichael were on their way well almost , not before mr agrampara hoped that i would now start calling him by his christian name miracle mr agrampara really is a bit of a mouthful .
there just had to be a story behind that name so i asked him how on earth he had ended up being called miracle .
apparently his mother had been a long time in labour three days , with only her sister to hold her hand as his father had gone off wetting the babys head at the first sign of a contraction .
as the midwife finally prised him out , he let out an enormous cry and his mother shouted out what is it ?
they already had seven girls between them , and both desperately wanted a boy .
his aunty , eyes and arms raised up to the ceiling cried out its a miracle , and so with no husband close by to argue , that was the naming ceremony over with .
i didnt know if he was winding me up or not , but i just had to push on , did you have any problems with that name at school ?
i asked trying to keep a straight face .
oh no , i always used my first christian name itza , and quietly closed the door behind him .
as i lay their clutching my sides , stomach , and every other healing scar , i vowed never to put it to the test , he might just be telling the truth .
vicente was now getting used to these proceedings so ten minutes later he was following the other two out of the room , but marcus , what was i to do with him ?
it seemed as though i had inherited him as well , whether i liked it or not .
i already had a p.a , so what had he got going for him that i needed ?
then it hit me , he knew the airfield .
i had never been there but he had , so , marcus i have a job for you .
yes mr michaels , and what might that be ?
he politely asked , eagerly looking in the direction of marias office .
airfield manager .
he was gob smacked with a capital g he had definitely not seen that one coming .
err , i , oh , what , but , he stammered at a total loss for words so i put him out of his misery .
i explained that it was only a temporary post , just until i was well enough to find him something more suitable .
he gave a large sigh of relief he had only just got the p.a .
job , which was turning out to be quite a doddle , and he didnt want to end up back in the dole queue again .
his principle tasks initially were to sort out the crash site , george and millies effects , the security of the airfield , and to learn some spanish .
utilising google earth he then gave me quite a detailed run down on what it was actually like there , but i must say that my initial impression wasnt that favourable , although a seed was sown in my mind .
a few days later , whilst caroline was topping up her tan , david and i were having one of our quite little chats , and as usual we were putting the world to rights .
we had just finished our morning exercises apparently we were both making excellent progress and the conversation turned to the airfield .
i was wondering whether to call in some consultants to advise me on what to do with it , and as usual i was interested in davids input .
we started off by chatting about the harbour apparently there had been a flotilla of gunboats there in the past , so it was quite substantial , and i had always fancied a boat , but then one thing led to another and we ended up on the subject of security of the whole place , and he imagined that sooner or later the private security firm would have to go , replaced with something in house , perhaps with a high tech passive surveillance back up .
i didnt have a clue what he was prattling on about , so i asked him to put his money where his mouth was , and take on the job .
that shut him up but it hadnt been a spur of the moment thing for me , the idea had been floating around in my mind for a few days .
it was there , it was mine , so i might as well use it , the airfield that is .
i needed a place to call home , and that was as good a place as any but definitely after a large amount of tlc , and what i finally offered him , after speaking with vicente , maria and a consultant or two , was the position of director of security .
he would be on the same salary as maria , i would house him , he could choose his own company armoured vehicle , etc , etc all i asked in return was for him to protect me , my family , my friends , my employees , my visitors and my property 24 7 .
i had learned a thing or two from the colonel .
i spoke to the colonel later that day and he thought that it was an excellent idea , although tongue in cheek , he thought i should pay him a finders fee .
i asked him to what address i should send the medical bills when i got them from america , and he laughingly called it quits , although his parting quip did catch me out , and i suppose you will be taking charlie as well ?
of course i would , i just hadnt thought of it yet , bonnie and clyde would never forgive me , and so charlie became his deputy , and if he was the deputy , did that make david the sherriff ?
if i was to have two of them , then i might as well have all three , so on return from her sun worshiping i had a quiet word with caroline .
how would she feel if i were to offer her the position of gentlemans gentleman , or whatever the female equivalent of that was ?
what i needed was someone to sort out my medications , clothes and meals , but there would definitely be no cooking or cleaning involved and she could even have her own car as well , maria would be sorting those sorts of things out .
she gave the briefest of glances to david and jumped at the idea after all she was still unemployed , and was starting to get a very square derrire sitting around watching her husband getting better .
chapter 11 over ten years ago the military had finally pulled out of el campo the field and left it in the hands of seguridad en total set , a private security company , and they in turn left it in the hands of carlos .
carlos had once been a high flyer in the polica nacional , the national police force .
hed had it made , he had all the right qualifications , knew all the right people , and was about to become the youngest inspector in madrid but then his wifes mother became ill .
very ill according to her , and as his wife was an only child it fell to her to look after her .
her mother had been born and brought up in san miguel del mar , and her father had been a fisherman .
he never returned from his final trip fifteen years previously , but her mother had never given up hope , she was still waiting for him , so she flatly refused to move into her daughters home in madrid just in case , so carlos had to give up his job and move lock , stock , and barrel into his mother in laws apartment , along with his wife and their new born baby .
as apartments go it was very large four bedrooms and two salones living rooms so there was ample room for them all , and the only blot on the landscape was that he didnt have a job , but he didnt expect that to be a problem , there was always the local force .
as san miguel was only a pueblo village or small town they did not warrant a comisaria a polica national police station , and the guardia civil barracks had closed several years earlier at the beginning of san miguels decline .
they had been replaced by the police local , who were not in the slightest bit interested in a high flyer from madrid .
he did not know one street from the next , or who the best plumber was if there was a leaking pipe , so when , about two months after they had moved in with his mother in law , and getting very desperate for a job , carlos heard that el campo was finally closing .
using his contacts in madrid he found out which company had obtained the contract for the security of the airfield , climbed into his car and was waiting outside the companys main offices in madrid when they re opened for business after their afternoon siesta .
he couldnt afford to mess about this was his last hope of a reasonable job in the dying pueblo so it was no holds barred , and after a ten minute wait he was shown into to the owners office .
unfortunately the owner already had someone else in mind to take on the san miguel contract his nephew , but fifteen minutes later he changed it , of course carlos was perfectly qualified to head up this particular contract and he really didnt want the tax people going over his files , or the health and safety people swarming all over his operations , or polica national looking to hard into his recent applications , or ... .. .
so carlos got the job , he hired a dozen local people to do the patrolling , had the electricity to the office at the main entrance restored to keep him cool or warm , depending on the season and had the telephone connected so his wife could contact him if she had a problem with her mother , and he also did an excellent job of keeping the contract within budget , and this verily pleased head office .
he was a natural at the job , and so he was left very much to his own devices , which pleased him no end as well , and so everyone settled down into a nice cosy routine .
the only real problem he ever encountered was about a year later , and it involved a group of gypsies that decided to move onto a piece of waste land close to the pueblo .
gypsies being gypsies they decided to push their luck and see what they could pilfer from the closed up buildings on the airfield .
there was only one problem with that idea carlos he was already one step ahead of them .
there was a rabbit problem he declared , and borrowing a couple of shotguns he sent his patrols off to sort the problem out .
after one gypsy intruders rear end had been mistaken for a rabbit there were no more problems at the airfield , and that evening the police local decided to have some off road practice with their new 4x4 patrol vehicle , co incidentally in the same area that the gypsies had set up their camp in .
they took the gentle hints and decided to rapidly relocate to pastures new .
with his decisive action carlos had not only cleared up the problem , but also sent out a clear message to the local populace , he was serious about his responsibilities , and so everyone quietly settled down to wait for a buyer , and waited , and waited .
as the years slowly passed , it wasnt their wages they were all being paid madrid rates , with plenty of overtime guaranteed , it was the boredom that was carloss main problem , he started to notice an alarming increase in the turnover of man and woman power , in fact at this rate he was going to run out of suitable local person power before very long , so his role changed from jef boss to entertainments manager , or so it seemed to him , and he turned out to be good at both .
one of his many schemes was to get his staff interested in learning a second language , after all it can not do you any harm , and it might just stand you in good stead with a buyer had he got a crystal ball or what !
, and it just so happened that thomas , one of his regular patrolmen , was english .
he , thomas , had married a beautiful young spanish girl that he had met whilst on holiday ten days is a really long time to know someone before you get married isnt it ?
and then he took her home to meet mummy .
it was hate at first sight so they quickly moved back to spain , permanently .
he had been in adult education , as an english teacher teaching english to people whose first language wasnt english immigrants , so he thought it would be easy to find a job along the same lines , teaching spaniards english .
unfortunately an awful lot of english speaking spaniards had the same idea and they had the advantage of speaking spanish as well .
he got jobs where he could , picking up spanish along the way , in bars , on building sites , and finally as a security guard , but he still missed teaching .
he had been in the job at el campo for about six months when carlos approached him with a proposition .
what did he think about teaching some of his fellow compaeros english just to help pass the time , and carlos would slip him a few extra shifts every now and then if he was up for it .
as thomas now had two small children to feed as well as a rather enlarged wife , the extra money would certainly come in handy and he would earn it by doing something that he really enjoyed doing , so he started with a vengeance , first with half a dozen students , then as competition between them took hold they all joined in , carlos included , and by the time el campo was finally sold , fortunately to an englishman , they all prided themselves on the quality of their english , although they all spoke it with a broad brummy accent .
when george purchased el campo he wasnt in the slightest bit interested in carlos or the rest of his brummy speaking staff .
one quick chat over the phone with his boss and as long as carlos kept the riff raff out , george would be happy to settle the account whenever it was submitted .
happy news , life could continue on as before .
his wife 's mother was still at deaths door , but he imagined that she would be until her dying day , whenever that was , and perhaps now head office would approve his requisition for a new pickup truck .
that had been over two months ago , and now carlos sat in his new pickup truck watching the accident investigators doing their work , and wondering what the future might hold for them all .
perhaps the person who inherited el campo might not be as disinterested in him and his security force as senor albright , then his radio burst into life , he was needed back at his office like yesterday .
vicente had arrived at the gates totally unannounced , identified himself and then went through carlos , his office , and all the paperwork like a whirling dervish , but in the end he seemed quite content .
he gave carlos a few details of who the new owner was and where he was and then left , saying that he should carry on as usual and someone would be in touch soon but that was not to carloss liking , so he put on a clean uniform shirt and climbed into the pickup .
they didnt really have much of uniform , just a jacket and hat , but he had decided that one was needed , to inspire team spirit so over the years one had developed .
the patrol staff wore black shirts , black denim trousers or shorts , black trainers or sandals , and a black baseball cap with their name on it carlos provided those out of his own pocket .
he wore the same , except for a white shirt .
when he arrived at the hospital he explained to a welcome co ordinator who he was , and who he wanted to see .
he was then shown a very nice armchair and asked to wait a moment .
it was indeed a very nice armchair the question was was he actually allowed to sit in it , or just stand and admire it ?
as the co ordinator had disappeared he took a gamble and sat down , but a few minutes later he leapt to his feet again , when this type of guy approached , you did either that or run .
he turned out to be an englishman , with a large bulge under his jacket , and he checked carloss identity and business card , and then rang carloss office .
as he was standing there watching this person ringing his office number he knew that he couldnt answer it , but fortunately one of his team did , and after grilling the unfortunate patrolwoman on the other end of the telephone about the whereabouts of her boss , and what he looked like , he then made another call , this time to vicente .
when rodders was finally totally satisfied that carlos was in fact carlos , he was shown into a room , no patient in it just maria primly sat behind her desk waiting for him .
he instantly decided that he wasnt going to bluff his way passed this lady , so he told her the truth , and again he briefly explained what he wanted to speak to mr michaels about , and then she left him sat in her reception area , to be further interrogated by two small dogs .
after licking his face for about ten minutes he was shown , cap in hand , into andrews lounge , still escorted by the two savage guard dogs ! ! !
good afternoon senor de selva , my name is andrew michaels and this is senor williams my director of security i said as we all shook hands .
as we were both in our wheelchairs i pointed carlos in the direction of bonnie and clydes favourite leather settee , and i was already beginning to like him , he was a dog lover .
when the three of them were firmly ensconced on the settee i told carlos to explain to us why he was here , from the very beginning .
vicente had only just got off the phone , bringing me up to speed ugh on carlos and el campo , but i needed to build up more of a picture in my mind of what the airfield was really like .
it took him a good half hour , but he was very articulate well as articulate as a spanish brummy can be , and concise .
he was clearly worried about the future of his staff no mention of himself though , i liked that as set didnt rate employees security of employment very highly , if the contract finished so did their jobs , and when he finished i asked him to wait outside , again escorted by the savage beasts .
well david , what do you think , this is your domain ?
and what david wanted was information , on carlos and every one of his security guards , starting with police reports , so when carlos came back in i let david take the lead after all he was most likely going to be his new boss , at least in the short term .
an hour later carlos departed a slightly happier person , but if i was serious about setting up permanent home at el campo then i had to think big about the long term housing situation there .
apart from george and millies mobile homes , that were definitely only temporary , there was nothing habitable at el campo .
the majority of buildings were of wooden construction and had all definitely seen better days .
the only solid building of any significance was the old officers mess , and that was huge , but brother was it ugly , and there was also another problem with it , apparently the local ayuntamiento had made it into the spanish equivalent of a listed building the builder must have been the mayors uncle or something .
what it was desperately in need of was for its vertical dimensions to be minimised flattened , with the aid of a few tons of dynamite , but unfortunately that was not permitted .
looking at it on google it reminded me of a match box that had been painted grey , stood on its edge then had a bright orange pitched roof plonked along the top of it , it was out of all proportion .
i needed advice , and quickly , but not from consultants , that would take too long , and i also needed someone that i could trust not to try and bankrupt me at every stage of the way .
then i had another one of my brainwaves , when we lived in england i had always enjoyed a round or two of golf with my friend paul .
he was an architect , and was employed by a local housing association , so he should know all about houses , even though mine was slightly larger than your average council house .
ring , ring , click , good morning this is monastery housing association and this is monica speaking how may i be of assistance ?
a pre programmed voice , on a totally different planet to me asked .
i would lay odds that she was multi tasking , answering the phone and doing her nails at the same time .
i would like to speak to paul malling please .
would that be the mr malling in technical services ?
how many other paul mallings were there at monastery housing association i wondered ?
no , the other one i replied .
but we only have one came the plaintive reply , and that got us back on the same planet .
then that must be the one i want then i sarcastically replied , and then sat in my wheelchair and waited , and waited , and waited , to be connected , and just as i was about to fall asleep my nail varnishing friend was back on the line .
whom may i say is calling ?
i had obviously been punished sufficiently , andrew michaels i replied .
what time asked a familiar voice ?
what time for what ?
i replied .
please tell me you are calling to set up a round of golf , he pleaded , i am bored to tears here , and how is spain , not given up already ?
i explained my situation , and after expressing his shock about sheila , and envy about my financial situation he went on to explain that his department had just finished a large housing scheme , and were waiting for the funding for the next one .
they were all sat around now catching up on their filing and twiddling their thumbs i must have pleased someone because everything seemed to be slipping into place , and then we then had an in depth laugh at my predicament .
i gave him the co ordinates of el campo and he googled them onto his computer and god its ugly !
came down the phone .
i hope you are referring to my new home paul and not the tea lady standing behind you .
we dont work for the council any more , we have vending machines now , and he agreed with me about the vertical dimensions , but disagreed about the dynamite , semtex was a much better option , and as we chatted , i could hear in the background what sounded like people taking a mouthful of tea , and finding that the milk was off , make that yuck sound .
his colleagues were obviously looking over his shoulder at my new home to be .
to say the least it will be a bit of a challenge , but i imagine it could be done , eventually , a bit like turning a sows ear into a silk purse .
i then started to put on the pressure would your esteemed leader consider letting you do some consulting work for me for a few weeks , top dollar ?
the mention of money had the desired effect , and things then started to get serious , i was suddenly in a conference call with him upstairs , not god , but close enough , and what him upstairs and i finally agreed upon was an open ended contract .
i could keep them for as long as i wanted , just as long as they were back in time for their next scheme in about six to ten weeks , when funding would hopefully be approved .
who were them ?
well of course paul as my principle architect , but also eddy as his clerk of works .
what is a clerk of works ?
i asked , i could just imagine somebody sat in a wicker chair , quill poised , noting down things that happened at work .
well he did that and a lot more besides .
he is the clients representative on a building site , paul explained , no work is carried out on site , by anyone , without his approval .
he checks that everything is carried out safely and to the agreed specifications .
he seemed like a very nice person to have on my side .
after the conference part of the call came to an end , paul , eddy and i then sorted out the logistics of the operation .
when required , monastery housing hired a clerk of works portacabin from the local branch of a national hire firm .
this sounded simple enough , too simple , what i ended up with was eddys cabin , an architects cabin , an onsite shower cum rest room cabin , a secure store cabin , two portaloo cabins , a portable generator , a portable air con unit , a water tank and a multitude of other assorted must have items .
today was wednesday the company guaranteed that all the items would be at el campo 10am the following tuesday morning .
all i for i read marcus had to do was have a suitable crane standing by .
so why didnt i hire all this gear in spain ?
well , because paul and eddy had used these cabins many times before , so they knew what to expect and because of the guarantee no maana .
we have a convoy , and maria had a headache .
tell marcus about the crane .
arrange for an aircraft to fly paul , eddie and their wives if they wish to come from southampton airport to el campo first thing monday morning flying directly into el campo had been sorted out previously between the air charter company , air traffic control and immigration by george , it was going to be very handy , and arrange for two hire cars , four by fours i would think to be waiting for them , and rent a villa with a pool please for them to live in .
oh , and you had better arrange for some food and someone to clean the villa for them as well .
have marcus and carlos meet up with them on their arrival , and after they have dropped off their bags and their wives at the villa , have all four of them flown by helicopter up here for a conference , and then perhaps a drop of lunch afterwards please .
marias headache had nothing to do with arranging paul and eddys arrival , half a dozen phone calls and it was all arranged , it was just one of those days .
that first conference was an eye opener , for me anyway .
paul must have used the entire resources of a very bored technical services department , and spent endless hours on the telephone with vicente , marcus , and carlos because the artists impression of phase i that i was shown bore absolutely no resemblance to any image on my laptop .
no wooden huts or criss crossing roads .
no derelict buildings or parade grounds just a very welcoming entrance , and a wide road that led up to a flower covered roundabout .
there were two roads leading off the roundabout , one off onto the taxiway airside , and the other , the one off to the right , led to a very pleasant looking two storey mansion , complete with its own helipad .
paul must have had either his plans , or his marbles mixed up , but then there was something vaguely familiar about the place !
he assured me that it was indeed the old officers mess but im not stupid , i can count , there were two floors missing perhaps a small amount of semtex had been used after all , and the remainder of the building looked in proportion it had lost its narrow look .
the first thing that vicente had done after having a long discussion with paul over the phone was to hop on board a helicopter he was getting used to the perks and fly down to the airfield , and carlos then drove him to the local ayuntamiento .
he marched straight into the mayors office , totally un announced , and invited him out to lunch at a nice little place that vicente knew about and the mayor only drooled over .
a fifteen minute helicopter ride later and that included hovering over the mayors poor wife as she was trying to hang out her unmentionables on the washing line and they were seated at a very secluded table in arguably the most expensive restaurant this side of madrid .
over a lazy la carte meal , complete with several bottles of the very best wine of course , vicente found out the reason for the preservation order , and he had been almost spot on .
they finally came to an arrangement , vicente would of course never get involved in bribery or anything illegal but the building would remain , it had to the mayors father had built it , although substantial alterations may just be permitted .
the more it was altered , the more public works around the pueblo i would be funding .
the harbour wall was in need of repair , the main plaza needed some tlc , the health centre was too small , and i was positive that the list would grow and grow !
a helicopter ride and two meals on expenses and planning permission and all the rest of the red tape had been circumvented , and family honour of course had been preserved .
what paul had come up with was an optical illusion .
first he extended outwards the four floors , both to the front and the rear , creating patio like areas outside the building , supported by beautiful arched pillars .
he then continued the roof downwards and outwards to meet the outer edge of the uppermost patio of the floor below .
the top floor had effectively been swallowed up into an enlarged roof , and we now had a three storey building .
although the new roofing did have cut outs in it to enable the top floor rooms to have some natural light , and small patios of their own .
then he re defined ground level .
over a substantial area around the building he had slowly raised the ground , until it was level with the first floor .
apart from a small moat , the ground floor was now a basement , so we now had a two storey building sat on a small hill fiendishly clever , but why cant we just have grand steps , or something , leading up to the new front doors ?
i rather naively asked .
it would defeat the object of me lowering the building stupid , paul thought , but actually said you find me an aircraft that can climb steps and i will give you steps .
this way he kept his job and our friendship and still made me look like a pillock at the same time .
he had also included in the design a new section of roof .
it protruded out from the centre of the original roof , covering the grand entrance and a newly created stretch of the taxiway .
no walls of course , aircraft dont like walls , just a roof and something to hold it up at the end .
it later turned out that the something would become the new control tower , which would also conveniently overlook the helipad .
one of course can not get ones self wet when one is vacating ones aeroplane in the rain , now can one ?
decadent or what ! , and as well as all the wooden huts disappearing , one of the hangars would also have to go it was in the way of the new taxiway to the front door .
and how many hangars do you really need anyway andrew ?
i had never given it a thought , but as long as everything was aesthetically pleasing i am sure that i would be very happy .
another thing that had also never crossed my mind was do i really need a bomb dump ? , so taking a gamble on the future state of the world i told him to get rid of that too it was after all an absolutely terrible eye sore , and then we had a whale of a time on the finer details , but the basic lay out was marvellous , i could just see myself living there , then i then tentatively broached the subject of the title , phase i .
if there is a phase i , does that mean that there will be a phase ii ?
correct , and a phase iii , and possibly a phase iv .
phase i was to be the conversion of my home ive got to stop calling it the building and the tidying up of the living areas in general gates , fences , etc .
phase ii or air side the airfield requires contractors with specialist skills so that would be tendered for separately .
can we perhaps pencil them in for next week ?
i loved pauls jokes , just like the good old days but he wasnt joking .
shore side phase iii was to be my very own marina , and that again required more specialist companies , and another week was pencilled in .
phase iv was something that he had tucked away at the back of his mind , but he would have a chat with me about it later when he had done some homework !
tomorrow was the day that the portacabins were arriving from england so they would be busy sorting them out , but on wednesday paul had arranged for two firms of spanish contractors to come and meet me .
we would go over my requirements with them , and then they would go away to prepare detailed plans , predictions and estimates .
they already had a general idea of what was expected of them as paul had already faxed them some rough sketches , so both companies would only have one month to tender for the work .
the building industry was suffering from the slowdown in the economy , both here and abroad so it was a buyers market , and i was a buyer .
chapter 12 davids physical health was improving daily the oil change in america had been a total success , although he would still require periodic dialysis for the next few months , and medication for the foreseeable future , but his long term prognosis was very optimistic .
his mental health however was another thing altogether or so he felt , the paperwork was driving him crazy .
he carefully vetted carlos and all but two of his staff when they had heard that police checks were required they quietly handed in their notices set had not been that fussy , and then davids first action was to promote carlos to acting manager of uniformed security , with the rank of captain , and it was to prove a good move .
carloss first task as el capitan was to contact set and terminate his employment with them , no notice was evidently required .
his second was to dispense with their services , that would take a month , and his third was to come to an agreement with them on purchasing the vehicles , radio equipment and the rest of their gear at el campo , it would help him out greatly in the short term .
they were happy to oblige , it meant that they could just close the books on the place , it had been a good little earner for them over the years , but they realised that it could not go on forever , and for a small financial consideration they would even forget about the months notice .
as for the drop outs , they agreed to remain on the books until replacements were found just so long as the police werent involved .
carlos then went on a recruiting drive , but not for very long .
as security was now going to be in house , for a very rich guy , and they would in all probability be armed , word quickly spread in the security industry , worldwide , and applications came flooding in .
those chosen would be well paid , and would certainly be the crme de la crme .
the structure that david wanted initially and i agreed to , was one captain possibly carlos one lieutenant his deputy one senior sergeant day to day manager one corporal office bound hi tec specialist plus five teams of five officers , with a sergeant in charge of each team .
carlos did the initial cull the wanabe policemen and those who just wanted to kill someone , and david did the final selection .
he chose forty four in all including all the survivors of carloss team as he expected to lose a few very soon .
maria sent out the letters , they were long letters , and they were deliberately in english .
one thing that i had insisted on very early in the proceedings was that all my security staff must have a good smattering of english .
i did not want , in years to come , a grandson of mine going up to an officer and saying excuse me sir , but there is a man with a gun behind that door , and getting a smile and a pat on the head in reply .
a notice was metaphorically going up at the entrance gates you are now entering little england , its first language is english .
from now on , with the amount of money that i was now starting to shell out , i had no intention of finding out what any more conjugated verbs were , spanish or otherwise .
i was well on the mend , and so a couple of weeks later the hospital let me out on a day trip , not to margate but for my first visit to el campo , and i was more than pleased with what i saw .
fortunately all signs of the tragic accident had been removed from the crash site , and as we circled overhead , in a very comfortable helicopter , paul and eddy pointing out things of interest , i then had another of my thoughts they were becoming very indispensable members of my team , so on my return to the hospital , a couple of hours later , i rang england and had a full , frank , and meaningful discussion with mr mattius , him upstairs at monastery housing association .
he would not , under any circumstances , extend paul and eddys time with me in fact the funding for their next project had come through earlier than expected and he wanted them back sooner rather than later .
i threatened to buy monastery housing association , sack him , and open up a branch office in spain .
sorry you can not do that sir we are a non profit making organisation funded by the housing corporation which in turn is a government quango .
what a mouthful but it most likely meant that his job was safe , blast ! , time for plan b , throw money at the situation , alright how much to extend their contracts with me , give me a price .
i want them back in their office by next monday , and then hung up .
i noticed that he had not said i need them back it was i want them back and in my language that was fighting talk , so plan c involved a meeting with vicente , paul and eddy in my office hospital room the next day .
i hinted at what might have transpired between him upstairs and yours truly , and then asked them bluntly do you want to go back to monastery ?
do we have a choice ?
paul asked , but he was thinking on his feet , and so i laid my cards on the table , if they were to resign from monastery i would employ them as consultants until the completion of works whenever that maybe and then i would guarantee the financial backing if they wished to go into business on their own .
what about your contract with monastery ?
eddy asked , but vicente had already browsed the document , which had been very hastily drawn up by the housing association , and he had rubbed his hands with glee .
in his opinion it wasnt worth the paper it was printed on .
it was an open contract with no end date stated it just needed a verbal termination .
their idea was that they would summon them back at the last minute , therefore maximising the consultation fee but as i was not an agent of the association i was not in a position to be obligated to pass on any messages to them .
all paul and eddy had to do was to refrain from answering any phone calls , or accepting any registered mail from the housing association until their notices had expired .
they went into my lounge to talk things over after all it was a life changing decision for both of them , and they had their families to think of as well .
their wives were now both back in england after their brief holiday , as both of them had their own jobs and children to tend to , but twenty minutes later two very happy chappies came back into my room and shook my hand .
once a few of the formalities plus four more scholarships with vicente and maria were sorted out , they cheerfully left my room well almost .
as they left my room , through the extra wide wheelchair access door , they somehow carelessly bumped ever so slightly into each another .
it wasnt much of a bump as bumps go , but it was enough to worry a passing professor of medicine , enough for him to sign them both off work sick for a month , and if they didnt improve in that time , he would certainly consider renewing the notes for at least a further two months .
i doubted that eddy would need another note , he only had to give one months notice to monastery housing , but paul had to give three .
a few days later i again left the hospital , this time in a limo to attend the service at a nearby crematorium for george and millie .
there were only a few people at the service , although mr agrampara was among them , he had flown in especially for it .
for the life of me i couldnt understand why they didnt have more friends .
they were two of the nicest people you could ever wish to meet i suppose they just liked to keep to themselves .
a preliminary report by the accident investigators had just found that pilot error was the probable cause of the accident , which was a pity , but not totally unexpected .
not knowing quite what to do with their urns i instructed marcus to place them with the rest of their personal effects in one of the hangars they certainly didnt have anywhere else to go at the present time , although at the same time i made a promise to myself , they were going to have somewhere special for their final resting place .
i accepted the most expensive tender for phase i , not because of the cost there had only been a million or so in it what a pittance !
, but because when they had come to see me at that initial meeting a month ago , the successful company had come into my room speaking english .
the other team had come in speaking spanish , expecting me as i now lived in spain to speak their language .
translation was not the problem , arrogance was , and it also helped that the winners could start immediately , so a week later , as i exited through those illustrious portals as an in patient anyway for the last time , with bonnie , clyde , maria and rodders and his crew in tow , work had already commenced on my new home .
around the same time that i had met the contractors for the first time i realised that i was starting to attract a veritable cacophony of staff around me .
i was definitely in need of more living and office space at el campo , so , marcus , sort it out , and he did .
he contacted the mobile home manufacturers , and they provided me post haste with what seemed like a mini city , more bedrooms , a gymnasium , canteen , medical centre , cinema and rest rooms , lots of rest rooms , and paul also took this opportunity to re locate the whole kit and caboodle air side , in between the runways to be more precise , away from all that dust , noise , and construction work when it eventually got started , well that was his excuse anyway , although i guessed that it was really just an excuse to get me out from under his feet .
by the time i arrived there david was already firmly ensconced at el campo .
he had returned from his convalescent leave feeling fitter than he had done since leaving afghanistan , and raring to go , and charlie had been busy preparing the ground work for the forthcoming week long induction course .
it was the pre cursor to three weeks of training that david felt was the minimum that the new security officers would require before they took on the job , and they had all been warned at the interview stage , and by letter , what to expect .
the induction course was obviously not as strenuous as the sas version but it was close enough .
it would give david an idea of each persons strengths and weaknesses , as he had to choose two officers and seven ncos from among them , as carlos had insisted that he be judged on his merits , along with the rest of the applicants .
the colonel provided half a dozen corporal types to help out on the course and a local security firm thought that all their christmass had come at once , they had the job of covering all the routine security at el campo for a month , at an extortionate rate .
it meant that david could concentrate all his efforts on the course , and then get the survivors kitted out , trained , and working as a team before taking over the task and at the end of the first week david had his structure .
carlos had come through with flying colours and was confirmed as the manager of uniformed security , and his lieutenant was to be thomas , the englishman .
pierre , a recently retired nco in the french foreign legion was to be the new senior sergeant and agnetha , from sweden who david nearly had to send back there because of her fear of firearms was to be the corporal .
the main requirement for her post was to be able to oversee all the high tech security systems that the teams would be using , computer literacy not killing ability was her priority , so a pepper spray on her belt would suffice and it also helped her case that charlie quite liked her .
between the four of them they could speak eleven languages , so english was not a problem either .
with week one over , david ended up with thirty six uniformed personnel twelve of them female but no uniforms , but fortunately carolines father was in gentlemens tailoring .
before he had ever been let anywhere near a potential customer , he had had to correctly predict all the measurements and or sizes of a gentleman that had just entered the store for the first time , and caroline , from an early age , used to compete with her father at this game , and so she became a natural at sizing people up .
it also helped that she had taste oozing from every pore , so when the subject of uniforms arose she took the lead .
i spent hours well almost forty five minutes browsing through catalogues searching for the right combination of style and practicality , and what we i finally decided upon was that when the officers were on the day shift , at the entrance to el campo , they would wear something along the lines of a guardia civil uniform , only in a slightly different shade of green , a brown leather belt , complete with a holster and hand cuffs , and peaked caps .
the first impression that i wanted visitors to el campo to get was that my home was guarded by smart and efficient officers , and at night , and when they were out and about on their patrols i wanted them business like .
this attire would be based on the police local para military style black jump suits , that were tucked into commando style boots , matt black nylon duty belts and baseball caps , but what was standard on both uniforms was the heckler and koch usp semi automatic pistol , complete with a fifteen round magazine that was packed full of shiny 9x19mm parabellum cartridges , just in case .
david had chosen this weapon because it was adaptable to each officers requirements left or right handed and its reliability record .
he had also come to an agreement with the authorities side arms would be permitted on el campo for the uniformed officers , just as long as david would be available to fine tune the firearms skills of selected officers from the neighbouring police forces in my new indoor range .
that was news to me , the indoor range bit , yet another thing to be added to the building specs .
for the first week the hopefuls had been living in tents at the outer reaches of the airfield .
now , for those that did not have local accommodation i had to find them somewhere to live , temporarily .
charlie had anticipated this a month previously , so when i used the term i , again it was used very loosely .
maria , tell marcus that we need more huts , hes got a month .
the second week started with a lorry turning up with a reputable military outfitters logo on either side of it .
two days were set aside to sort out the uniforms but because of carolines skills one of those days wasnt needed .
once they had all been kitted out by the outfitter , alterations noted , and all the insignias and any stripes had been loosely pinned onto the garments , they were sent off to their seamstresss , and then on to the cleaners .
i wanted them all to be the d.bs immaculate on their first day on the job as well as every day thereafter .
the next day they were back in overalls , but now they were black , and they had their new black duty belts on .
this was to be their patrolling belt , which had their black nylon side arm holster minus the gun at this stage and pouches and or clips for spare magazines , handcuffs , cs spray , flashlight , multi tool , radio , baton and uncle tom cobley and all .
charlie had set up a temporary outdoor shooting range , well out of earshot of any passes by , and for the next three days david , charlie and pierre gave the probables an intensive weapons training course .
even agnetha got three bulls at five paces with her pepper spray .
as they were one day ahead of schedule david gave them a treat he let pierre explain to them all , the officers and patrol officers alike , how he expected them to be turned out , and especially how to shine their boots and shoes to his satisfaction .
there would be a few sore , and boot polish ingrained fingers over the next few weeks .
the third week was a toughie .
it included physical training , unarmed combat , some light square bashing and team building exercises , and more and more david let the officers and ncos take over , until by the end of that week it was carlos , thomas and pierre that were devising the exercises , and the sergeants implementing them .
week four started with me meeting them all for the first time .
i had arrived , with my entourage in tow , in two helicopters on the saturday , and it was nice to be finally in a place of my own , even though i didnt have my sheila beside me , and the original mobile homes had been george and millies .
as i approached the smart lines early for me anyway on monday morning , pierre called them all to attention .
i had never had this happen to me before , and it sort of threw me a bit , but charlie was having a whale of a time , and then carlos introduced us bonnie , clyde and me to them all .
as i shook each of them by the hand , and asked him her where they were from , in english of course , they all confidently answered me , although i could easily tell which of them had been in carloss original team , and just as i was reluctantly about to give them an impromptu welcome to the fold speech , i was saved by the bell , or rather a horn .
a large car transporter with five toyota pickups , a range rover and a ldv maxus minibus arrived each of the four by fours coming ready fitted with all the usual flashing lights , spot lights , sirens , radios etc .
each team would have their own pickup , carlos , thomas , and pierre would share the range rover , and agnetha would be responsible for the mini bus , but as sure as eggs were eggs the fleet would grow .
under the watchful eye of pierre the vehicles were unloaded , handed over to the teams , and as we watched them drive off for yet more training bonnie and clyde knew that they had made a lot more friends , and i felt very safe .
it was friday midday and i was all dressed up in a brand new suite , the gucci i think after all it was a chilly 22 degrees , well it was nearly christmas and i was going to a parade .
any of the participants that had relatives or friends that resided locally and a few not so locally invited them to their passing out parade .
the pueblo band arrived , with more instrumentalists than my entire security force , but that didnt matter , my boys and girls were definitely the centre of attention .
paul had cleared an area for us all to enjoy ourselves in , and marcus had hired a load of tables and chairs and from somewhere had appeared a dais .
we had all had a quick rehearsal the evening before , but with the trainees dressed in their overalls , not their best bibs and tuckers and all had gone well until bonnie and clyde decided to join in , and they promptly turned the whole serious proceedings into absolute mayhem .
everybody had worked so hard over the past four weeks , but bonnie and clyde wanted to play , so who were we to argue , and so everyone played .
it was nice to see them all let their hair down , and as i watched charlie , bonnie and clyde disappear under a mound of human flesh david slid up beside me , a smile on his face and quietly said theyll do , praise indeed from their boss .
the parade went spectacularly well , first they all marched on , and the sergeants inspected them , and reported to pierre , who inspected them , and reported to thomas , who inspected them , and reported to carlos , who thankfully did not inspect them , but reported to me , for me to inspect them .
was there anything left for me to find ?
so as i moved slowly along the lines i again shook each by the hand , congratulated him or her and then handed them their shiny new name badge and side arm or pepper spray in agnethas case that maria was efficiently if rather nervously passing to me .
they were now fully trained , and they all held their heads up high .
after my , davids and carloss little speeches they marched passed the dais with david and i looking down from above , and they really looked the biz in their new uniforms .
two of the teams were dressed in their new patrol blacks , as they were now calling them , and were in the centre rank , flanked either side by the rest in their daytime best .
it all made for some grand photographs .
for after the ceremony marcus had organised a bar and buffet for everyone , and as i circulated , my right arm gradually felt as if it was going to be ripped from my shoulder from all the hand shaking , and i was definitely seeing stars from all the flashes that accompanied the obligatory photographs .
i even had to have a photograph with the band .
never had i ever had this amount of attention heaped on me before , but i definitely think i could get used to it .
finally , pleading that i was feeling a little peaky i left them all to it .
actually i felt absolutely knac sorry done in , and promptly went to bed for a siesta .
they would all have the weekend to recuperate , but at 0700 monday , sharp , they would all be starting for real .
chapter 13 christmas , did i hear somebody mention christmas ?
well it does come around once a year , whether you like it or not .
alice , a month or so ago had thought that it would be a nice idea if both mine and her mothers families were to get together , and remember her at christmas , ahhh what a lovely thought .
there was to be alice and her fella , who turned out to be a woman i think .
robin , emma and little mark , who wanted to spend christmas together in their new home .
my parents , who wanted to be in eastbourne , sheilas parents , who wanted to be in las vegas , my sister , who had just broken up with her husband , so now wanted to go back on the pull , big time and hadnt spoken to me since our move to spain , and finally sheilas two brothers , plus their wives , who hadnt spoken to each other in a lot longer than that .
unfortunately there wasnt enough room at the inn for their offspring but it still managed to turn into a nightmare .
they all turned up on christmas eve for the family get together or perhaps it should have been called a ding dong .
first sheilas mother had a go at her bickering children grow up and act your ages .
then my sister poked her oar in , leave them alone , its christmas .
this was swiftly followed by my parents , who told their daughter to butt out of other families stupid business wherever did they learn that expression from , robin didnt think his gran should be so un christmas like to his favourite aunty trish how many aunty trishs did he have ?
, and alice was furious that everyone seemed to be ignoring her bert , and by six oclock almost all of them had decided to have an early night , almost , but unfortunately not all .
alice , with bertha in tow please call me bert not in a million years came to try and clear the air .
she started to explain about her inner feelings to me .
it was perfect timing , daughter dear , i was working on a corker of a headache , and with all that was going on around me i was not perhaps in the perfect frame of mind to try and come to terms with this particular family crisis a little advanced warning would have gone a long way to smoothing the transition from daddies little girl to well i couldnt even bring myself to think of a name .
not now alice i pleaded , another time please , but rest assured , i thought , we were definitely going to be having a long talk , soon , and alone .
with that alice then called me a bigoted old sod and stormed off , bert trailing behind .
i didnt think of myself as old , just going grey gracefully , but as for bigoted , i was perfectly happy to let the person next to me have his or her own beliefs , just as long as they didnt try pushing them into my face , and alice it seemed had deliberately engineered this whole situation to back me into a corner .
we would definitely be having that talk soon , and now it seemed that maria , with the appearance of the infamous burt , wasnt speaking to anyone either .
by nine oclock that evening bob sheilas father , and i sat beside the pool sharing a bottle of glenfiddich , which was my first alcoholic drink since the accident , watching the spectacular firework display that marcus had arranged , well at least cindy and myra were enjoying it , unlike bonnie and clyde who were curled up in my shower tray , they were definitely not fireworky type hounds , and of course christmas dinner turned out to be a feast to remember .
as we all sat on the veranda , trying to enjoy what the catering company had provided and i must admit that it was very tasty , in stony silence , the tarmac laying machine then decided to do its business , upwind of us .
the spanish have their main christmas event the three kings on the sixth of january , so quite a few of them , especially the older ones , dont even take the 25th off obviously it was an oldie driving the machine , and that evening , as i watched the last of them flying off into the sunset air taxi firms obviously dont recognise christmas either i remembered a comment that bob had made to me that previous evening sheila would certainly not recognise any of us now .
how true , and so i spent the next few days resting , with the rest of the glenfiddich until caroline put her foot down and stopped me , its not a good idea when you are on so much medication .
of course virtually all my guests had rung and apologised , but if anything it made me feel worse , i was surrounded by people but felt so totally alone .
i was missing sheila so very much and i just couldnt get her out of my mind .
i know that grieving is a natural process , but even i realised that this was becoming something more , and i had to do something drastic about it before i did something stupid , so the next morning , after tucking into my half a ruby grapefruit i yelled to maria , maria , i need a holiday .
she now had her own office next to my lounge , but it was still easier to scream at her rather than to try and find the intercom .
maria also seemed to be inheriting marcus , as all the dust and dirt of the great outdoors was obviously not his place of choice when it came to parking his rear end , as he was now spending more and more time with her , perhaps he was a kindred spirit too .
perhaps also he would be the perfect person to park his rear end here and mind the shop while we myself , maria , david , caroline , charlie , bonnie and clyde vacated .
i was slowly getting the feeling that i had finally cracked it it wasnt the largest cruise liner that i wanted to go on , or the most expensive accommodation that i wanted to rest my weary head in , i just wanted the best of everything .
if i was going to live this fantasy , as itza had once put it , i might as well make the most of it before i woke up , so while surfing the net later in the day with maria she was now reluctantly talking to me we came across a cruise line that had luxury yachts , but not a sail in sight , and as we browsed through their web site , checking out the deck plans and such , i noticed the owners suite now that definitely had a ring to it .
it took her some digging but maria finally had the details , first off , to occupy that particular suite you had to be the owner of the company or at least a sizeable chunk of it .
less than a hundred shares and you might get an extra bottle of champers on arrival , and possibly a dinner date with the captain .
between one and five hundred got you an automatic upgrade but above that you started to talk percentages .
own twenty per cent of the company and you have the use of the owners suite , if it was available , and if you owned forty per cent , or more , it was available , and you could tell the captain where to go .
but who knows about companies ?
why miracle , of course , or as i now preferred to call him , itza .
vicente had assured me that itzas names were kosher , and that i must get him to tell me all about his friends victorious and ark royal sometime .
i had finally worked out the time differences , and rang him about ten oclock in the morning , his morning .
a quick rundown on what i was after and he was off well off my telephone at least , but he was back on it again about two hours later .
good stock , viable company , good management too good nobody wants to sell , it is a nice little earner .
it seemed that he could get me a free bottle of champagne and possibly an upgrade , but that was it unless he must have been closely related to alice in a former life as i felt my wallet give a distinct twitch .
he knew somebody , who knew somebody , who had heard a rumour that somebody might just be looking to realise some capital big time but without upsetting the applecart .
it turned out that one of the founders of the company was ever so slightly bored with the nautical life , and wanted to move into aviation .
well he would now be able to buy himself an aeroplane , or two , and i got my upgrade into the owners suite .
i would not be quite telling the captain where to go but almost .
question are dogs allowed on board your vessels ?
only working dogs sir , are you either blind or deaf ?
wait for it this is the bit that i like no , but i do own thirty five percent of the company , and without pausing to draw breath he came straight back and how many dogs will be accompanying you sir ?
i hadnt asked bonnie or clyde , but i was sure that they would be up for a nautical adventure .
it wasnt the suite that was the problem , that was waiting for me anytime it was the rest of the accommodation for my travelling companions .
it would be about three weeks before that all became available , but i could wait , just , and as it turned out we would need all that time anyway to sort out the paperwork for bonnie and clyde .
three days later maria took a call when was i available for a chat ? , and the next day a very charming lady popped in for the said chat .
she was the ceo of the cruise line that i had just upgraded myself onto , and she was charm personified , but also very worried , what were my intentions ?
i was mortified i had only just lost sheila .
nope , i had got it all wrong what were my intentions regarding her company .
totally honourable i assured her , no hidden agendas or ulterior motives .
i explained that i felt that i needed a bolt hole to escape too every now and then , and her yachts fitted the bill nicely .
a little financial involvement in the company might just stand me in good stead in the booking stakes , and i was right on the button .
there was only one presidents cruise booked , to asia , and that was on another of the lines yachts , so apart from that one suite the choice of boats was mine , decisions , decisions , decisions .
once she realised that i was not embarking on a hostile takeover bid , and i intended to be a very silent partner , she relaxed , and much to my surprise we then had a very pleasant lunch at vicente and the mayors favourite watering hole , complete with helicopter ride .
it was nice to relax in the company of the opposite sex again , she was happily divorced , but there was no hint of flirtation on either side , although i was definitely feeling ever so slightly on the mend .
as i patiently waited for my cruise i started to take more of an interest in the goings on at el campo .
most of the old huts and redundant buildings were now history .
the security officers had been relocated into temporary accommodation , at a temporary gate , whilst the new entrance was being constructed , and the airfield was well into its refurbishment , but unfortunately work was also about to start on the marina .
andrew , what size yacht are you going to get ?
i dont know paul , is it important ?
well the architect needs to know , for the size of the jetty .
ok , lets say about 150 meters then shall we .
when he stopped choking i explained that i certainly didnt want the largest private yacht in the world , one of the top half dozen would certainly be enough .
paul then decided that it was now safe to allow me to go on a guided tour of my soon to be new home , and the main building i must say was now looking very different all the rubbish had been cleared from out of the inside , along , it seemed , with most of the internal walls .
the sub basement originally the basement would now be for freezers , storage , air conditioning machinery etc , along with a workshop and garage got to have somewhere to park the odd limo or two .
the basement originally the ground floor would be for the kitchen , laundry , and other domestic work areas , along with their related offices .
the ground floor originally the first floor you getting the idea ?
was now going to be home to the grand main entrance .
after first passing down a short , but elaborate entrance hall , my guests would find themselves in the atrium , which according to paul was going to be the heart of the whole building , and according to the artists impression it was going to be one huge open area .
the floor above it had already been removed as had the rear exterior wall of both the floors , and the new roof and wall would to be almost entirely constructed of glass , being braced with stainless steel girders .
the flooring around the pool area , which was going to be slap bang in the centre , would be sunk about two meters down , into part of the new basement below , and the pool itself would extend outside although the outside portion of it could be isolated when not in use , or in the cooler months , by retractable glass partitions .
the huge irregular shaped pool would eventually end up with paddle and bubble areas , a bar in middle , complete with sub marine seating , and have a large water mushroom to one side .
it will of course also have slides and every pool toy imaginable for children of all ages .
there will eventually also be a jacuzzi , complete with a waterfall , and patio areas scattered among the boulders , bushes and flowers , that will eventually gracefully rise up from the pool surround , to the marble pathways .
the two grand marble pathways , one curving around each side of the pool area , will not only lead out to the rear elevation , but also to the central corridors in each wing .
the corridor leading off to the left of the atrium will eventually lead to my private quarters , although maria would have the use of a small broom cupboard next to my office .
there will be my lounge , office , entertaining rooms , billiard room , and whatever else the architects felt that i must have including a small cinema and private gymnasium , and it will then finally lead through into the ballroom well that was what paul called it , although most of the balling would have to be done outside on a new patio built onto the end of the building .
the corridor leading off to the right would be the senior staff members wing where david , charlie , and any other senior staff members that i may end up collecting along the way , will have their offices , along with a small medical centre , steam room , massage tables and gymnasium .
their central corridor will eventually lead out into a new restaurant cafeteria area for the staff , which will be tacked onto the outside of the end wall , and this will be encased in a huge glass lean to , paul must have shares in a glazing company !
halfway up the end wall , overlooking the main floor , there will be a mezzanine dining area for the senior staff , who will also have access to it from the new first floor as well .
on the first floor the old second floor you still with me on this ?
, off to the left of the atrium , there will be my master suite .
it will overlook the atrium on the inside and the airfield at the front , very nice , and it will also have a private glass bubble that paul calls a lift , taking me from the steel and glass balcony that will encircle the atrium down to the pool area i suppose it will save me wearing out the stairs ! !
, as well to all floors above and below .
on the other side of my corridor was to be an identical suite , almost , which also overlooking the atrium on the inside , but the swimming pool to the rear .
that would definitely be for my favoured guests .
behind each of these main suites were another ten slightly smaller ones , five on either side , they werent going to be as sumptuous as mine but not far from it .
over to the right of the atrium i had a problem .
i would already have eleven guest rooms , how many more will i need ?
so what i had finally decided on was a compromise .
there will be twelve self contained flats , that could either be used as senior staff accommodation if they wished or needed to live in , or overspill guest accommodation in an emergency , oh to be so popular !
that central corridor will then continue on through the end wall out onto the mezzanine floor in the restaurant cafeteria area .
in the attic youve guessed it the old third floor , there will be , what seemed to me anyway , hundreds of small one bed roomed flats , each with its own bathroom and balcony , for junior staff if ever required .
paul had asked me if i just wanted this floor left empty but i told him to carry on and complete it .
i would hate to find out later that i had a use for it and have to get the builders back in again , what inconvenience !
with all those empty rooms it made me think of people to fill them .
who will cook , clean , and generally work in them ?
i think i need a conference i thought , so maria , david and i sat down that afternoon they were definitely becoming my a team .
the subject was , who else do we need on the a team , or in the b , c , or any other teams that we could think of .
staffing , that was the real subject , and vicente as usual had already beaten me to it .
a while ago , after i had taken on david , caroline and charlie he had sent maria an e mail asking her to start a file on future employment needs , and it was starting to get quite thick .
we went all around the houses , figuratively speaking , i could get consultants involved but that would take forever and it wouldnt be as much fun , so perhaps we should keep it in house for a while , and start at the top .
after consulting wikipedia on marias laptop i found out that what i really needed was a housekeeper , butler , and chef to organise the lower echelons and where pray does one get them all from ?
yellow pages of course .
which yellow pages ?
london , thats or should one say that is , the world centre of snobbery , so i let maria make first contact , letting them know that i wasnt on the bones of my backside , and after briefly explaining what i wanted , twice , to two different people she was put on hold ! !
i didnt like that one little bit i dont do hold , even with posh music , perhaps another agency ?
just as i was about to say something , a third person came on the line and asked to speak to me , and this lady was snobbery personified i nearly grabbed my forelock as she spoke for the first time .
many commiserations on my recent loss , she hoped that i was over my nasty experience with that madman and was now able to enjoy life more fully now that i was finally out of hospital .
maria certainly hadnt mentioned anything personal about me , apart from my name , but apparently that was enough i was obviously the main topic of conversation around every walnut coffee table in london , and i didnt really have to explain to her what i needed , she obviously knew already , and it was a wonderfully nice feeling telling her that no i did not want a cook housekeeper i wanted a head chef and a housekeeper , along with a butler , and once we both arrived on the same wavelength things then progressed .
permanent positions in spain , and living in if they wished .
they would be senior management , and as such would be responsible for all the hirings and or firings in their departments , and it would also be an advantage if they had at least a smattering of spanish oh !
and be willing to rough it in temporary accommodation until my permanent home was ready in about six months time .
this got her thinking , it was a long time since a request like this had come along as not many people could afford large households nowadays .
would it be acceptable to me if the housekeeper and butler were related ?
she asked .
i presumed that they would not be distant cousins , and i was right , husband and wife , although the wife would of course be the senior arent they always i thought .
that would be perfectly acceptable i graciously confirmed , and then went on to explain that i was off on my hols in two weeks time , the inevitable interviews would have to be fitted around them , so the final plan of attack was she would make enquiries and get back to me with a short list of interested parties within a week .
i could then peruse their cvs at my leisure , and if i felt that any of them looked promising she would arrange for me to interview them in london .
it sounded pretty straight forward to me .
they wanted a job with me in spain , i wanted them to work for me in spain , but i was the one that had to travel a thousand miles to meet them , something wrong somewhere .
there had been a short list of twenty five i wondered how long the long list had been , which i had finally whittled down to nine , three for each position including one couple so i flew directly into london city airport , and then had a quick drive in a waiting limo to the dorchester .
the hotel had advised me that the park suites had the best views and they were right , mine had a glorious view of wet trees , wet grass and wet roads , it was of course raining , but the view was still stunning .
i was going to make the most of my visit , a show , the eye and my personal favourite the science museum , but first the interviews .
the dorchester could provide me with a meeting room , so thats where i met them , , but first off i had to meet up with the people from the agency , and i would have spotted the voice on the phone at a thousand paces everyone in her vicinity was prostrate in front of her , what a presence , then it was call me handsworthy and down to business and the first one up was for the head chefs position , and he thought that i was a culinary dullard and wasnt far wrong , the second only really wanted to be in the employ of a titled person , and the third one was a frenchman called marcel .
he was totally p ed off and it showed .
he was head chef at a very reputable london hotel but his girlfriend had just dumped him , his current employers were slave drivers , forcing him in his opinion to work in a pig sty and he didnt like the rain .
what he wanted was somewhere away from the rain .
as the rain in spain falls mainly on the plain not on the coast , it is relatively dry in my neck of the woods , so one tick .
he wanted to create dishes for people interested in the taste of food , not the cost , and that would appreciate his expertise check out my waistline , it was expanding quite quickly , two ticks .
he wanted to create his gastronomic wonders in a clean and modern environment the kitchen hadnt even been built yet , you can not get any more modern than that , three ticks .
and finally he wanted to be a million miles from his ex would a thousand do ?
yes .
the job is yours if you want it i said , and he kissed me , as only a frenchman can get away with , but there was a slight problem , he had to give a months notice .
that was perfectly acceptable to me although it would later transpire that he would be flying out to spain with me .
next up was the housekeepers position the first one wouldnt even get out of bed for the kind of money that i was offering , and the second one had a very personal hygiene problem .
the first butler had a nose that glowed in the dark , and 100 proof breathe to go with it , and the second one seemed to be a very sweet boy , but definitely not my type .
the last two came as a matching set .
nigel blake had always wanted to go into service .
it was his one and only ambition , so when he left school he applied for , and was accepted into the position of footman to the 15th earl of frampton , and this made him very happy .
lord and lady frampton were firmly set in the era before the war , the boar war .
they liked things done the old way it was only in 1952 that they reluctantly allowed electricity to be installed in frampton hall , and nigel loved it , he knew his place and readily accepted it .
he turned out to be a favourite of the earls and was promoted to valet on his twenty third birthday , although not as a birthday present , the previous holder of the title had eloped with the housekeeper not a union likely to get the earls blessing .
it was an idyllic existence , he had respect , he travelled lord and lady frampton had a villa on the coast just outside barcelona , and his position definitely attracted the ladies , so all was well with his life until a new parlour maid came onto the scene she soon put a stop to his shenanigans she married him of course with the earls blessing .
neither of them wanted children that would only have complicated matters , then on his thirtieth birthday old alfred dropped dead , so he became a footman again but this time first footman or deputy butler .
florence , his wife , had two years earlier been promoted to ladys maid , so again all was in balance in both the frampton and blake households , well at least for the next two years then lady frampton ran off with the milkman .
actually he was the owner of a large dairy producing conglomerate , and had his feet firmly planted in the twenty first century , and it further transpired that the housekeeper had aided in the dalliance , and she was quickly sent packing .
florence was out of a job , as her mistress was gone , but there was the position of housekeeper to fill .
lord frampton was too distraught to worry about whether she was too junior for the post , so she got the job , and that made nigels immediate boss , young alfred the butler , junior to his wife , so this meant that she was now two levels above him in the pecking order , and this could have caused problems in lesser households , but not the blakes , nigel had been under the thumb for years .
five years later , just when nigel was hoping to replace young alfred as butler after all he had been doing his job for years the 15th earl passed away , and unfortunately the 16th earl apparent viscount frampton of leigh was into to the highlife big time , he definitely had no wish to spend valuable partying time on the slowly decaying frampton hall .
he was a right honourable man though , so when he sold frampton hall , to the first buyer that came along , he asked that the present staff should be well looked after , and came in person to break the news of the sale to them there just happened to be a hunt ball in the vicinity that weekend , so all the staff dutifully lined up in the grand hall to await his lordships pleasure .
when he entered the hall , for that last time , he was accompanied by a young man in flowing robes , and the right honourable 16th earl of frampton explained to them that he had sold frampton hall to the all seeing eye the spiritual leader of a new age religious sect , but he strenuously assured them all that during the hard fought negotiations one quick telephone call the sect had agreed that all their positions would be considered safe following his departure although nothing was actually put in writing .
he then wished them all a fond farewell and departed .
the all seeing eye then fell to his knees in front of them all , and after he had offered a prayer of thanksgiving to his benevolent and forgiving god he stood up and fired them all .
those living in tied accommodation had four weeks to vacate their homes .
nigel and florence thought that their world had ended , but florence had the sense to ring around several of the agencies in london offering their services , and two days later she received a call back , asking if they would consider positions in spain , and a week later they were sat having an interview in the dorchester .
chapter 14 how on earth did we all fit into the aircraft that was taking me home ?
simple i just hired a larger aircraft .
i hadnt expected to come home with any of my new finds , people usually have to give some form of notice , but somehow things all seemed to be falling into place for me , and i even had marcel along for the ride what about your notice ?
i asked him when we were safely airborne .
i told my boss what i thought of him , and poked him in the chest he sheepishly mumbled .
that didnt seem too heinous a crime i thought until he went on to explain that he had been holding a razor sharp meat cleaver in his hand at the time .
security had then escorted him off the premises so he presumed that his employment was terminated .
remind me to hide the meat cleavers .
with more and more people residing in or about el campo it was time for me to go shopping which i always enjoyed so the next day , at the crack of ten oclock , paul , charlie , marcus and i had a race against time .
the first inmobiliario estate agent was taken by surprise , and we bought up half a dozen villas at below the asking price .
the next one tried to almost double his prices telephones obviously work very well in this part of spain , so we left him standing in his doorway muttering foul spanish incantations at our backs .
the third one only put his prices up by about ten percent i could live with that , so we purchased another three brand new town houses , plus the villa that i was already renting for paul and eddy , but my prize buy of the day was a skeleton .
it was an arrangement of concrete pillars on a concrete base , with a partially completed roof on top of it .
the builder had found that he could not sell any of the apartments that he was constructing , so after completing the framework he just stopped work , cutting his losses , and putting the whole project on hold .
with paul and marias help we negotiated a price for the whole site , six floors maybe two , three or even four apartments per floor , depending on their sizes , an underground car park and a reasonable amount of land surrounding it , more than enough for a large swimming pool .
paul almost had a seizure at the thought of more work but i pacified him , my home was his number one priority , everything else could wait , either that or we hire a spanish architect , problem sorted .
marcus will have to visit an optician though yet again he never saw it coming .
good bye assistant p.a , hello property manager designate .
i really was getting into the swing of things , and by late afternoon we had a spanish builder on board , the same one that had actually constructed the skeleton in the first place , but this time he was working for me .
a local architect was then recruited to manage the whole project , under the direction of paul of course and with regular visits from eddie , and a furniture store was found that could totally outfit all the properties , down to the last bottle opener , when they were finally completed .
i even wanted the second hand properties refurnished , nothing second hand for my staff , although vicente was not a happy bunny if i had spoken to him first he could have saved me at least ten percent , ahhh well ! , its only money .
whilst we were wandering around the pueblo , buying up properties left , right and centre , i slowly got more and more agitated at the sight of all the graffiti that seemed to be appearing on every available flat surface .
one thing that had always annoyed me was graffiti , even in its more artistic form , so after i had spoken to vicente about purchasing the new properties i raised this issue with him , more as a general gripe than anything serious , oops i should really watch what i say .
one of vicentes new associates had only that morning been sounding off on the same subject , could this new eager beaver do some research into the subject for me ?
certainly i said , and then i promptly forgot all about it .
roll on my holidays , or should i say vacation as i was going over to that side of the pond again , it was three days away , and i was visibly chomping at the bit .
according to my favourite hospital consultant i was making spectacular progress , but i was still not 100 a holiday was just what the doctor ordered , and even without his advice i definitely needed some serious r r as it seemed to me that every new day was turning out to be one long meeting decisions , decisions and yet more decisions .
what with paul , with his day to day questions about the main house as it was now being called when i had said gold taps in the master suite , did i mean real gold or just gold plated ?
david , with his problems , what type of wireless motion sensor network had i decided on , to go around el campo , temperature , sound , vibration or pressure ?
of course that was one of the easy ones , as i knew the answer right off the top of my head , all of them , or perhaps just as i was settling down to five minutes with bonnie and clyde , maria wanted to finalise the job descriptions of the next batch of recruits .
after the holiday i would seriously have to structure my days , a time and a place for everything .
unfortunately the one area that was really giving me a king sized headache was phase iii .
el campo airfield was situated on a plateau , just high enough up so that it wasnt overlooked by the surrounding area , and its boundary , to a good percentage of the southern edge of the airfield was water , or to be more precise the mediterranean , and most of this was a rocky cliff , most , but not all .
it was as if a giant excavator had taken a huge bite out of the eastern corner of the plateau leaving a huge natural cove , and this cove was shared with the village of san miguel del mar , so a dividing jetty had been constructed in line with the edge of the plateau , thus effectively separating the military base from the village .
a substantial sea wall had then been constructed almost entirely encasing the entire cove , but leaving two entrances , one either side of the jetty , created two harbours , one civilian and one military .
there had been ample room in the military harbour for the navy to operate a variety of vessels from within it .
it was well situated in a pleasant part of the country , well protected from the elements and so it usually had three or four patrol craft of varying sizes in residence , with the occasional visit from a passing frigate or destroyer , but unfortunately , as a cost cutting measure , the spanish armada navy reluctantly abandoned its favourite mini base in the sun , leaving the air force with a fair to middling harbour for their air sea rescue launch , and a few recreational dinghies .
when the air force finally departed , the harbour mouth was sealed off with chains and underwater obstacles , and the whole complex left to rot , until a local company well they are only based about fifty kilometres away , that specialised in the design and construction of marinas worldwide finally won the highly contested contract for phase iii .
they had already started to clear the site , and had drawn up the preliminary drawings , but what they needed now were more detailed plans , and that needed serious input from me .
paul was a great help , but he wasnt a sailor , and he also had his own projects to oversee .
consultants were a godsend , but they really didnt have a clue what i wanted .
the reason for that was simple i didnt have a clue what i wanted myself .
perhaps i was getting a little ahead of myself .
what i really needed was someone to tell me what i needed , perhaps a clairvoyant !
chapter 15 it was by far the largest one to drop in on me to date , and it of course was an aeroplane .
phase ii , the air side refurbishment was going extremely well , so much so that i was now open for business for the big boys .
it was about to take me and my little gang of intrepid adventurers all the way to the caribbean in one hop , and it was an airbus a318 elite .
there was only room to transport eighteen passengers in it , but oh boy in what luxury .
even bonnie and clyde had their own little area , complete with a plug in air freshener type gadget that told them that this indeed was their place to go .
my one big dread about the flight had been that with one cock of his leg , clyde could send us all plummeting to an untimely demise .
the a318 elite looked very similar to any of the airbus a320s plying their wares around the skies , unless you have a good eye for detail .
it was 6 metres shorter , 80 centimetres higher , 14 tonnes lighter , and one heck of a lot plusher on the inside than your average a320 , and as i climbed the steps to board this shining piece of opulent technology i reflected on my recent past .
a year ago i had been a very happily married man , completely content with my lot , and now , as i reached the top of the steps , and was about to step inside one of the most luxurious aircraft on the planet and surrounded by an amazing amount of people whose only purpose in life , at this moment in time , seemed to be to please me i felt so totally alone .
perhaps it was a sixth sense that dogs have but bonnie scratched at my leg for a cuddle .
i picked her up and she nuzzled into my neck , she was missing sheila just as much as i was .
we arrived at pole carabes airport on the island of guadeloupe , in what is called either the french caribbean or the french west indies , depending on which map you are looking at , in glorious sunshine .
whilst the weather in spain wasnt bad it was still winter time , and this was serious wall to wall sunshine .
when sheila and i had started our cruise of a lifetime wed had to walk across the gangway to be greeted by smiling members of the crew .
today i didnt even have to make it to the seaside .
after saying goodbye to the flight and cabin staff i disembarked from the a318 , only to be greeted by what must have been a substantial part of the crew of the sea sprite .
we had cleared customs on board the aircraft so as the crewmembers loaded our cases into the bowels of a nearby coach , i was greeted on behalf of the master , captain hill by chief officer webb i suppose that someone had to be left behind on board to make sure that no one stole the boat .
not so the stiff formality of the senior officers on board the larger cruise liners , his was a relaxed informality that said welcome , we are the best , and you will be enjoying your stay with us .
although maria , david , caroline and charlie were my staff , to these people they were still guests , and were being treated as such by first officer carol carter .
even bonnie and clyde had a new best friend a friendly stewardess called laura , who it appeared , had been assigned to them for the duration .
the short trip to the bas du font marina was of course different .
i couldnt just be transported there in a taxi , or even anything as mundane as a bus .
no , apparently this particularly heavily customised coach had once been the personal transport of kylie on one of her world tours .
the sea sprite was riding majestically at anchor just outside the marina , but fortunately we werent expected to swim out to her , there just happened to be a gleaming 1970s era riva aquarama runabout tied up at the pontoon , just waiting to give me a heart attack , and after donning our life jackets they even had special jackets for bonnie and clyde maria and first officer carter slid into the rear seat with bonnie , and clyde and i took up residence on the plush front passenger seat .
after casting off the driver , coxswain , pilot , madman then asked us very politely too hold on and then rammed the throttles forward to their stops .
fortunately we werent too far from the marinas exit into the caribbean , so we were only doing about twice the legal speed limit as we broke out into the mirror smooth sea , and what the delinquent driver had failed to clarify was what we had to hold on too ?
was it our stomachs , the seats , the dogs , or a combination of all three at once , and we went hurtling past my new home for the next three weeks doing at least 40 knots , with absolutely no indication from the driver that he was going to be slowing down any time soon , and the twin cadillac engines seemed to be only just getting into their stride .
at first i thought this might just be an elaborate kidnap plot , but then we started to weave in and out among the rest of the anchored boats , and then we went in circles , first one way , and then the other , then figure of eights and i finally realised that this was fun caribbean style .
just as i was about to argue this point with the steering person , clyde put his front paws on the beautiful honduras cedar wood dashboard , stuck his head over the top of the windscreen , and into the blast of warm air .
with eyes just tiny slits he started to sail his ears in the slipstream , then he let the wind enter into his mouth puffing out his cheeks , then his stub of a tail started thrashing about he was having serious fun , so if it was good enough for him then it was good enough for the rest of us .
it was not for the borne line to just transfer me from shore to ship , it had to be an experience , although maria might disagree she seemed to be hanging onto first officer carters arm for dear life !
after swopping places with the coxswain i then had twenty minutes of reverting back to a ten year old i have seriously got to get myself one of these little beauties , but finally all good things etc etc , and we slid alongside the sea sprites accommodation ladder , where two very petite sea persons , complete with shiny boat hooks held the riva steady whilst we disembarked and climbing up to the main deck , where i was greeted by a beaming captain hill , obviously that experience was only a sample of what was to come .
david , caroline , charlie and the luggage were already on board as they had embarked by means of the usual tupperware boat , while i had been reverting .
for me twenty coats of maritime varnish on mahogany , for them fresh anti fouling on plastic .
perhaps we werent all going to be treated as equals after all .
laura took the hounds off for their conducted tour , the first officer took a shaky maria off to her new cabin , and the captain showed me to my suite obviously he had nothing better to do , and oh boy was it something , even more opulent than the glossy photos and on line videos , and just in case the captain ever got lost , i had a panoramic view of where we were going , that is if i could be bothered to get off my very own personal sun lounger , on my very own sun deck no rolled up beach towels at dawn for me .
the suite was out of this world , and it was huge , where the rest of the passengers would sleep i had no idea , there couldnt possibly have been any more room left on the ship for their cabins , and i even had my own stewardess to point me in the right direction if i got lost .
after a brief conducted tour , just to make sure that everything was to my liking , captain hill then asked me if it would be alright for him to slip anchor ? ?
? , he was the driver shouldnt he know , so i quietly explained to him that all i was after was a cabin up grade i had no grandiose scheme to become captain blackbeard , but we would have a little chat later , if that was alright with him , but until then business as usual please .
sara , my stewardess efficiently unpacked my cases .
there had been none of the ten kilos of hand baggage and twenty kilos in the hold sir when we embarked on the elite , i could have taken my entire wardrobe , in their wardrobes , up the steps and no one would have batted an eyelid although watching sara unpack case after case i wondered if caroline had left anything of mine behind , but first things first , watch the sea sprite slip anchor after all i had my very own sun deck , which just happened to be conveniently situated one deck below the ships bridge , it was the second best view in the house and then after that perhaps a bath , or maybe a shower , or a jacuzzi , or a steam bath , or a sauna , or a massage or a .. , yet more decisions , decisions , decisions .
over dinner that evening captain hill and i had our little chat , and we came to an agreement , he would drive the ship and i would sleep well for the first week anyway .
i was still recuperating from all my surgery , and according to caroline and a few others i had been slightly overdoing things for the past month or so , so i slept for england and spain in a huge bed with egyptian linen sheets , on the sun lounger with hot and cold running drinks , on a massage table with rough and smooth pummelling hands , and in the bath , much to the consternation of sara , but after a week i felt like a new man and started to take an interest in my own personal itinerary , although whilst i had slept bonnie and clyde , with charlie and laura in tow had apparently been hard at work having fun , fun , fun with loads of new and exotic sniffs .
before we had left spain maria and caroline had taken on new roles , tour organisers to the boss and we sat down together and compiled my very own personal itinerary .
we of course used the ships itinerary as a base as i didnt quite have enough shares in the line to tell the captain where to go , but i certainly didnt want to re visit any old haunts , too many fond memories of sheila , so we crossed those off and substituted lazy days , sailing days , and beach bbq days for them .
unfortunately though , starting on the eighth day of my cruise there was a block of five nono days all together , so i came up with the solution , a holiday from the holiday , or to be more precise a flying visit to see itza , and then on to palm beach , florida for a few days just to see how i was now supposed to live .
after surprisingly few mutterings of discontent from maria and charlie they agreed to remain on board and dog sit its a tough job but someones got to do it whilst david , caroline and i flew by a commercial airline to nassau in the bahamas , and it made a nice change from chartering my own aircraft i got to speak to real people and hold my own passport .
itza had casually invited me to visit him and his family in nassau any time i was passing on one of his flying visits to see me , so as i was now passing , maria gave him a call and it was fixed .
she gave him the date , but no time he didnt want one , we were just instructed to hop onto any flight into lynden pindling international airport , on new providence island and be as early as possible please , so we arrived at just before ten oclock in the morning and were greeted by a taxi driver holding up a plaque for david and caroline i suppose someone might just have recognised my name .
i didnt have a clue what time he started holding up that plaque but i bet his arm was aching by now .
we all clambered into his taxi , nassau is famous for its stretched limo taxis , but this was a monster , and after he closed the passenger door behind me im sure that it would have been quicker for him to catch a bus up to his door .
it turned out that it was not a real taxi it just looked like one , and itzas chauffeur then took us on a wonderful two hour tour of the island , just to get a feel for the place .
he pointed out all the places of interest over the intercom of course and gave us ample opportunity to visit some of the sights if we wished , then at twelve thirty sharp we turned into a beautiful tree lined street , where every house was well kept and had masses of brightly coloured flowers outside , either in hanging baskets , or if the owners were lucky , in small gardens .
there was the occasional sixties era motorcar parked at the side of the road but we were in the only moving vehicle , and we had just gone through a very large no entry sign .
that apparently was not a problem as pedestrians and jay walkers alike gave us friendly waves as we passed .
we drew up outside what looked to me like a very old wooden boarding house , complete with large veranda , and there was itza sitting in a swinging chair , sipping a long drink and occasionally glancing at a laptop that was lying on the coffee table beside him .
as we disembarked from the limo he stood , came down a couple of wooden steps and did the meet and greet bit perfectly , welcoming us to his beautiful island .
i casually mentioned to him that his driver had come through a no entry sign on entering the street and hoped that he wouldnt be in too much trouble , but all itza did was laugh , and told me that he would have been in more trouble if he hadnt gone through it there was one at either end of the street , to keep out the uninvited .
it turned out that he owned the street , all the houses and also the vintage cars .
he also employed all the pedestrians and the veranda was actually his office welcome to his world .
itza had been born and brought up on this street , and his ambition was to make sure that it remained just the same as it had been in his happy childhood .
he went on to explain that he had known george and millie for a considerably long period of time , and as he had watched the master at work he became a very good student .
he didnt need to be my manager in the caribbean he wanted to be , and all the monies that he now earned went directly into a charitable trust that he had set up for disadvantaged local children .
after freshening up in one of the houses , which turned out to be superbly appointed guests quarters , complete with maid service , itza took responsibility for me and sent david and caroline off for some quality time together , and after wrapping myself around a very large rum punch in a real coconut shell we settled down for a quiet chat , he had wanted one for a while so this was his chance .
we talked at length about financial matters in general which i hadnt a clue about , my portfolio in particular which i had even less of a clue about , and his charitable trust now that i was interested in , and i hinted that perhaps i might just go along that road myself at a later date .
he quickly offered to send vicente the latest up to date details on setting one up , plus a few of his ideas on suitably categories of beneficiaries , well it would give vicente something else to get his teeth into .
time flew by and finally my stomach reminded me that it was time to think about dinner , and after the usual preparations everyone congregated on the veranda , where he introduced us to his wife delight and his six boys .
unlike his mother he had wanted a daughter but after six attempts delight had put her foot down , enough was enough .
the boys then went off to dine with their own wives and children but delight , who was definitely delightful to be around , fortunately remained with us , and we quickly clambered into the limo , i wasnt the only one that was ravenous , but not for us a plush five star restaurant , it turned out that we had a table reserved at goldies restaurant and bar .
apparently when it had been time to re decorate the wooden exterior the owner couldnt make up his mind what colour to paint it , so short listing about twenty contrasting colours he had each plank painted a different colour , and when they ran out of colours they started over again , and again no chance of missing this place on a dark night !
battling our way into the noisy and informal restaurant we found our table and started by tucking into conch , a local delicacy .
then i had whatever it was as deep fried fritters in a spicy and garlicky sauce , accompanied by peas and rice then plantain bananas , coming up every now and then for a breath and a quick chat .
it was of course all washed down by yet more rum punches i was certainly getting a taste for those things .
what a night , but i was glad that bonnie and clyde were safely on board the sea sprite , with all that garlic they wouldnt have gotten within six feet of me nearly 2 meters for the converted .
the next morning we were off , fortunately at a civilised hour , on another boat trip , but not just any old boat though , it was a mega yacht , and the owner was actually richer than me he was number five or six i think .
he , and his trophy wife number three , to be , welcomed us as if we were the only guests on board , in fact they were the consummate professional hosts with the mosts , and warmly invited us to make ourselves at home , then went off to greet the other fifty or sixty guests and we never saw them again .
the yacht was definitely in the top ten when it came to size , and it had all the requisite add on extras , submarines , helicopters , speed boats and every conceivable electronic gizmo and gadgetry but it certainly didnt rock my boat .
i might as well have been on the sea sprite or any other medium sized cruise liner i will definitely have to rethink my choice of boats .
dont get me wrong , i had a very pleasant day itza and delight were the perfect surrogate hosts as they had been on board as guests several times before , so they knew their way around , and david and caroline thoroughly enjoyed themselves as well , finding out what made this monster yacht tick besides its four very large engines , but i personally had expected much more bang for the bucks as my colonial cousins would say .
on return from our yachting experience itza and i had a long chat , way into the early hours .
it seemed like ages ago that he had told me to go and live the fantasy when i finally got out of hospital , but now he was qualifying it by saying that sometimes the reality of a fantasy is not all that its cracked up to be i assure you that it made perfect sense to me in the early hours , and after four or five rum punchs .
one of my all time favourite sayings has always been be careful what you wish for it might just come true .
i was definitely in need of a reality check enter palm beach !
chapter 16 the next morning we left nassau , and if ever i had needed an air ambulance , it was then , but according to caroline a hang over wasnt covered by the travel insurance , and so eventually we landed at palm beach international airport , florida and promptly forget all about reality .
palm beachs motto is the best of everything and so naturally its airports motto is gateway to the best of everything , and i absently mulled this profound statement over as i settled down to a quiet round of golf on the airports indoor putting green , what planet had i just landed on ?
david had just been off tracking down our baggage , for some obscure reason they were about to go on their merry way back to spain , and to compensate me in some small way for this heinous act i was presented with a courtesy limo for my troubles , mine for my stay , although they did expect me to put petrol in it at my own expense , the cheek of it .
i had fortunately just missed palm beachs high season , thank the lord , but the place was still wall to wall millionaires , and most of them were members of the lucky sperm club donald trumpps saying , not mine , inherited money as opposed to those unfortunate ones that had to ugh work for it .
i wonder what club i belonged to , the caravan wreckers club perhaps .
we made our way to the breakers hotel and resort in one piece , but after spains comparatively empty roads , driving here was a nightmare , most of the drivers drove as though they owned the road but then again looking at the size of their cars they most likely did .
i had never been to palm beach before but people assured me that it was definitely in my league , but as we checked in i felt like the office junior being sent on an errand to the board room .
i could just hear them saying behind my back oh him , hes only the ninth .
i was of course covering all david and carolines expenses but i was definitely tempted to slip them some extra spending money .
we were met by the french chef concierge in person and shown to our adjoining flagler club suites , the absolute crme de la crme of opulent living , then after freshening up we went on a walkabout .
we stayed together , not as employer and bodyguards , but as a mutual support society , we had to laugh at the prices , either that or burst into tears .
first we tried the hotels shopping arcade and that was a hoot , then we went for it big time and ventured out into the heart of the palm beachs shop till you drop zone .
out of sheer desperation , and to say that i had actually bought something in palm beach , i secretly purchased four watches , one for each of my travelling companions as a thank you present , nigh on twenty grand each , but that did include 250 each for wrapping them up prettily .
then i remembered bonnie and clyde , so off we went and found a suitable lost reality shop , and i calmly spent a further eight grand on matching collars for them , although i did save on the fancy wrapping paper , they just wouldnt have appreciated it .
david and caroline got cindy a my parents went to palm beach and all they got me was this lousy tee shirt tee shirt i promised to stand guarantor on the mortgage , and then that evening we got all dressed up and decided to go for a chinese , well as chinese as the hotels echo restaurant got , i never did get the hang of the stainless steel chop sticks , and so the last thing that i said to david and caroline as i bid them goodnight was please wake me up in time for the first flight off of this fantasy island .
then it was off to bed , to dream of bonnie and clyde who only loved me for myself not my money .
next morning , as our aircraft climbed swiftly away from palm beach international , i leaned back into in my seat and cast my mind back over the past twenty four hours .
you cant blame the lucky sperm club members , that environment was what they had been put on this planet to enjoy , it was just that i had been totally out of my depth .
all my adult life i had always been comfortable in one to one situations with normal people , and was even starting to get to grips with lawyers and architects , but put me in among a group of my new peers , like yesterday , and i found myself totally out of my depth .
i think i will definitely have to go back to school before trying that little experience again .
as i was coming back from my holiday from my holiday a day early , the sea sprite was not anchored serenely in marigot bay off the island of st martin , waiting for us , we had all had a senior moment forgotten , it wouldnt be arriving until tomorrow i bet maria wouldnt have made that mistake .
i had two choices , either island hop in a teeny weeny little aircraft , or find a local hostelry for the night .
what we had also forgotten , was the reason why sea sprite was putting into marigot bay in the first place , it was carnival time , and trying to find a bed and breakfast guest house with three vacancies would be all but impossible , but fortunately i wasnt looking for a b b .
what we found was la samanna , a five star resort that boasted among other things five speciality suites , and due to a last minute cancellation i found myself in one of them , the orient express styled terrace suite , but unfortunately david and caroline had to rough it in one of the common or garden beach front suites i hope they will eventually forgive me .
after a swim and a change of clothes we were off to marigot town for some serious partying , i had a lot to catch up on after palm beach , so i ate when i felt like it , danced in the streets when the mood took me , and then decided to watch the grand parade until i became part of it .
much to the consternation of david i was adopted by a group of very scantily dressed students .
i had been convinced , prior to today that it would be impossible for me to enjoy life again to this extent but i was wrong , what a party .
when i was asked what i did i replied retired , well it wasnt a lie , and after that they wouldnt allow me put my hand in my pocket , after all i must be on the bread line well almost , and the next morning , or what was left of it , i had yet another hangover , and yet again it was well and truly deserved .
later that afternoon , as i lay soaking up the suns rays and slowly becoming a member of the human race again i watched the sea sprite sail majestically passed me off shore it reminded me of my pets , oh well time to join the real world again , and two hours later i arrived back on board , after surreptitiously paying off my new friends accommodation bills , to be welcomed at the top of the ladder by an exuberant clyde , but there was no sign of bonnie .
i found her lying on my bed she had been there ever since i had left , not eating a thing , just curled up into a ball .
she obviously thought that i had left her as well , time for a cuddle big time .
that evening , as the rest of the guests departed for the carnival , i remained on board , ostensibly to avoid meeting up with my new friends from last night caroline doubted that i would be able to survive another night like that but the real reason was to spend some quality time with bonnie and clyde .
charlie had put bonnies behaviour down to the heat , but i was convinced that she was still missing sheila .
later that evening the three of us were sharing a lounger on the stern of the ghost ship sea sprite , watching a cocktail party getting under way on the flight deck of a nearby destroyer it was on a courtesy call to the island and as usual they really did know how to do things like that , it was a speciality of the grey funnel line royal navy .
the ship looked magnificent , bathed in floodlighting .
first officer carter was doing her evening rounds when she spotted us quietly sitting there , and asked if she could join us for a few minutes .
i readily agreed and she parked herself on an adjacent lounger .
she politely asked how my mini holiday had gone , and i briefly glossed over the details .
i then mentioned the mega yacht , more to wind her up in the nicest possible way than anything else , but then i nodded towards the destroyer , now that is what i call a ship , not that floating gin palace .
she laughed and agreed with me , then told me that she would give her right arm for ten minutes in command of one of those .
i gave a chuckle and told her that if i ever came across a second hand one she would always be welcome to have a go on it .
we both then sat there watching the cocktail party for a few more minutes , lost in our own separate thoughts , and then she was off to make sure the ship wasnt sinking .
she seemed like a very nice lady , and maria thought so too .
chapter 17 first officer carol carter had been born at a very early age , but she hadnt been a first officer then , in fact it could have been safely said that it would have been over her mothers dead body , but then that may have had something to do with her the mother having had a thing for a sailor in her formative years only to be dumped at the altar for a parrot but thats another story .
as carol grew up she showed absolutely no interest in the familys garden centre business , all she ever wanted to do was mess about on boats , and this worried her mother greatly as the dastardly sailor minus his parrot this time had turned up again just before her second wedding day this time it was to her current husband , and tried for a reconciliation i.e .
he had his wicked way with her again , then he dumped her again and carol had been born just nine months into the marriage .
her husband had green fingers and got sea sick on the gosport ferry on a calm day , so she was very keen to keep her headstrong daughter away from all things nautical , but she wasnt very successful .
for her tenth birthday , after she had ceremonially burned her dolls and all things girly a week before , she finally beat her parents father into submission and got her first dinghy .
for her eleventh birthday , after sending her tiny dinghy to valhalla setting it on fire and then casting it off into the river a week earlier , she got an even bigger and faster dinghy .
for her twelfth birthday she got a fire extinguisher , not really , she got an rya sailing course on the isle of wight and a racing dinghy as her passing out present .
her thirteenth birthday was spent at the helm of a brand new olympic class racing dinghy , fortunately provided by her sponsors , she was getting that good .
her fourteenth birthday was spent at the european youth olympic festival picking up a gold medal .
her fifteenth birthday was spent tuning up her new ocean going racing yacht , provided by even more sponsors which was rigged for solo sailing .
her sixteenth birthday was spent in bed with her new boyfriend , she had found out that she didnt like the solo bit very much .
her seventeenth birthday was spent looking after her three month old baby son , alone , and by her eighteenth birthday her mother had stepped in , taking over the looking after of her grandson full time , and sent carol off to college , but it was six months into her courses that her mother finally found out that she was studying all things nautical .
her nineteenth , twentieth and twenty first birthdays were spent studying , but on her twenty second birthday she set sail on a very small cruise liner , as a deck cadet , to learn the ropes literally as well as figuratively and to start building up her mandatory sea time , her aim was to achieve her officer of the watch certificate in record time , which she did .
finally after four and a half years of training she became the third officer on a medium sized cruise liner , and then as time progressed she was promoted to second officer on the lines new liner .
after distinguishing herself during a fire on board her ship she was offered the position of first officer on one of the companys smaller vessels , it may have been smaller , but it was still a welcome promotion , or so she thought .
after two years a new captain developed a thing for her and when she rejected him , firmly , her life became a misery .
fortunately her previous chief officer had obtained a position with the borne line as chief officer on the brand new sea sprite , and when the captain suddenly became ill and had to take early retirement , her mentor was made up to master .
the first officer was made up to chief officer , and captain hill was aware of carols predicament .
after one surreptitious phone call she applied for , and was accepted as first officer of sea sprite , but then her previous captain carried out a very effective smear campaign against her .
she was a first officer in a small line , and fully qualified for command , but with a long wait for promotion , and no other line would now touch her , so she was stuck there with nowhere to go , career wise , but despite her predicament she enjoyed life on the sea sprite , although she was starting to miss her son scott more and more as the years progressed .
of course she had him to herself on her leaves , and he came and stayed with her on his holidays , but now that he had left college , and was into i.t .
in a big way , the holidays were getting further and further apart .
she wasnt involved with a man , in fact for the past five years she had only had friendships with a few female passengers , as early on in her career she had made it a strict rule never to get involved with any of the crew that really was a death wish , but life suddenly took a turn for the better as she stood in the sunshine at the bottom of the steps that were leading up to a very shiny airbus a318 elite .
as she watched maria glide down from the aircrafts plush interior her heart skipped a beat , but when she found out that maria was p.a .
to one of the worlds richest men she assumed that she would be untouchable , until they were sat in the back of the riva , with maria hanging on to her arm for dear life , and they hadnt even cast off yet , and within a few days carol and maria became inseparable , helped along immensely when marias boss took off for bermuda and the states without her .
as she chatted to mr michaels on the stern , and watched the party on the destroyer get into full swing she realised that she didnt want to spend the next umpteen years trapped in this luxurious existence .
she wanted a life closer to her son and perhaps with someone like maria and so after making her excuses she continued on with her rounds , whimsically mulling over what mr michaels had just said , and then it hit her an idea what if mr michaels had been just be a teensy weensy bit serious about the second hand destroyer , well it wasnt really second hand .
chapter 18 president malcolm mugubutu came to power on the back of a rocket propelled grenade , and even before his immediate predecessor had been safely tucked up in his coffin he had started making his plans to find somewhere safe for all that money that he intended to make , but he had an aversion to flying three of his predecessors had aircraft related accidents , if you can call one heat seeking ground to air missile , and two suitcase bombs accidents , so it would have to be by other means .
after completing his education at a private school malcolm joined his countries small navy and was promptly sent away to england to train as an officer cadet at the britannia royal naval college at dartmouth .
he did his sea training on a destroyer and instantly took a liking to that class of ship , but upon returning to his strife torn country he transferred from the navy , with its three un seaworthy frigates , into the gfu , not so much a secret police force , more a wanabe presidents training ground .
he was a natural , and after placing the first suitcase device himself he hated the word bomb , it was so uncouth , transporting the stinger missile and its launcher from a neighbouring country in the boot of his car for someone else to use , and designing the second suitcase device it was actually in a laptop computer but whos complaining , he rose through the ranks , not surprisingly in three stages .
his predecessor was well aware of malcolms talents , after all he had availed himself of them just prior to becoming president himself , so he kept a close eye on malcolm , especially where aircraft were concerned , but unfortunately whilst he had one eye on the sky , and the other one on the virtually non existent skirt of his new minister of cultural affairs sat beside him , the soon to be late president didnt notice the next vice president pointing at him , with a bog standard dime a dozen rpg .
president mugubutu quickly became known to his loyal subjects on pain of death as president 10 , as any financial transaction anywhere in the country attracted a 10 presidential tariff .
it didnt do much for the countries failing economy , but it certainly filled his coffers quite quickly .
but how was he going to get those by now very heavy coffers to a nice secluded island , if the need for a quick exit ever arose ?
his natural distrust of aircraft meant that the only means left open to him was by sea , utilising his rag tag navy , but there was a slight problem , one of the frigates had just sunk at its mooring , the second ones engine had blown up when the crew tried to start it , and a witch doctor had just put a hex on the third frigate although the witch doctor concerned also just happened to be the third frigates chief stoker , perhaps there was a tad of self preservation in his incantations , definitely time to think about modernising his maritime force , so through an intermediary who was later to become his successor malcolm contacted a shipyard in germany , and they dispatched a team of naval architects post haste to design him his new floating bank vault , which , so as not to look too suspicious , would look like a destroyer , but that was where the similarity would end .
1.one hundred and fifty ish metres in length .
2.about six or seven thousand tonnes in weight .
3.something like twenty metres wide .
4.approximately seven metres draught .
5.two rolls royce northrop grumman dcn wr 21 gas turbines , with 2 converteam electric motors .
he wasnt too fussy about the unimportant things , but he did require the vessel to go from 0 30 knots in the blink of an eye in a worst case scenario .
it also had to have a range of about seven thousand nautical miles that should get him well clear of any suitcases .
among the multitudinous other specifications that were on his wish list was that his ship should have a large helicopter hangar , and a reinforced flight deck , so that it would be able to accommodate heavy lift helicopters , all that money wouldnt be easy to transport .
bow and stern thrusters were an obvious necessity , where he intended to keep the ship there werent too many tugs , but zero speed stabilisers were a pure indulgence , he had hated all that bobbing about when hms battleaxe had been riding at anchor .
he then thought about who was going to man it he was definitely not into equal opportunities or more to the point who could he trust , and that turned out to be not a lot of people , so everything must be automated wherever possible , reducing to an absolute minimum the number of crew .
now , as it was ostensibly going to be a warship then there had better be some bits and pieces on it that went bang .
a modulated five inch multipurpose rapid fire gun , suitable for anti aircraft , anti ship and shore bombardment was an absolute must , as were some surface to air missiles , and perhaps a few torpedo tubes , plus a 20mm phalanx close support weapons system or two , and of course loads of saluting cannons for when he came on board .
the naval architects couldnt believe their ears , but as long as president mugubutu put down a hefty deposit , and paid his stage payments on time they would design and build him a world class warship , even though it was extremely doubtful that any sane government would ever provide the weapons systems that were on his wish list , well perhaps the saluting cannons might not be too much of a problem , but they would cross those bridges when they came to them , and their final design was spectacular , beautiful flared bows , sleek superstructure , and a nice hefty flight deck , so after drawing up a watertight contract and receiving the initial deposit sorry sir , no discount for cash they started constructing yard number 246 with a vengeance , after all there was no telling how long the presidents presidency was going to last .
by the time the ship yard had got to the main deck level , the main propulsion system had already been installed , and most of the interior shell had been completed , although virtually no military paraphernalia had been supplied for fitting .
there was a large hole on the fore deck where a five inch gun module could slip in , and they just left flat the areas for the missile system and other associated weaponry , covering them with boxes and tarpaulins , just in case the yard was googled by the president .
they had just completed the flight deck and were starting on the aircraft hangar and bridge superstructures when they came across a small problem , the money stopped , or more precisely , president mugubutu stopped breathing .
he had been superseded , and unfortunately the only person in his country who knew anything about yn 246 was the new president , and he hated boats , he had much better things to spend all his new found wealth on , so the engines and machinery were mothballed , the hull and superstructure was cocooned and the whole thing was left to quietly gather dust , but the dockyard had no problem with that , they had half expected it to happen .
in the contract in very small print it stated that if stage payments ceased , then after two years yn 246 would become the property of the ship yard , for them to do with as they pleased , and although it was a beautifully constructed ship they doubted that they would ever be able to find a buyer for it , it was just so impractical , so it would most likely go to the breakers yard .
chapter 19 carol had heard about yn 246 from one of her german friends who just happened to be a naval architect ress , or whatever the feminine form of architect was , and that had been about a year ago , so she made her way quickly to marias suite to discuss her idea with her .
after being excitedly told about it , and then realising that all carol wanted to do was talk , maria went back to sleep , but not being too put off by marias response she then handed over her watch to the third officer , that was what third officers were for , found a computer , and then started to compile as much information as she could about yn 246 , which turned out to be virtually nothing , so in desperation she rang the ship yard .
it was one oclock here , six oclock in the morning in germany , so she doubted that there would be anyone there that she could talk too , but she would give it a try anyway , and it was a good start when she found the switchboard manned , so she asked to speak to someone in authority .
to her surprise she got herr flik , the owner of the yard , and he was a very worried man , yet another order was in the process of going down the tubes and he was becoming even more worried by the minute .
first things first , is yn 246 still in its cocoon ?
she asked she was english so she instinctively knew that everyone else spoke it as well .
yes came the reply .
how long had it been in it ?
twenty two months .
had a buyer been found for it yet ?
i wish he groaned , and then carol hypothetically asked if it would be possible to convert yn 246 into a private yacht .
that got herr fliks attention 100 , if this wasnt some mad frulein on a bender , and he could just pull this off , it might tide the ship yard over the recession , perhaps he wouldnt have to lay off any of his key workers after all .
she explained that at the moment this was only pie in the sky , what she urgently required to enable her to take the plan on to its next stage were details , drawings , and possible a conversion scheme .
normally at this stage herr flik would have hung up the phone and thought dumkoff , but desperate times require desperate measures so on another line he instructed the switchboard operator to rouse all the architects and tell them he wanted them , or their resignations at or on their boards in thirty minutes , and for the remainder of the night every printer and fax machine on board the sea sprite was churning out bumf for her , first in german , then after another phone call , in english .
all the naval architects , excluding her friend who had moved on to pastures new a few months earlier , were at their boards , or into their cad programmes in record time , and each one was given the same instruction , come up with something quick , and think big .
chapter 20 the following morning i awoke raring to go , but the problem was , where to ?
after a quick five laps of the ship , with clyde and a very reluctant bonnie in tow , a shower and a light breakfast i called maria into my lounge , she was chirpiness personified , and had a tan fit to die for .
she looked relaxed , refreshed and completely happy with life i must be paying her too much , maria will you please get me the name and number of that woman at the employment agency in london .
she leaned across and pressed a few buttons on my laptop , and there it was , obviously my fingers hadnt gone to the same school as hers .
when i had met handsworthy at the interviews in the dorchester we had seemed to get on quite well , no blood had been spilt , and as she was the only really posh person that i knew , what had i to lose ?
ring , ring , handsworthy placement agency , veronica speaking how may i be of assistance ?
good morning i think veronica this is andrew michaels would it be at all possible to have a quick word with mrs handsworthy please ?
one moment please , i will see if lady handsworthy is available hyacinth handsworthy speaking , how was palm beach then andrew ?
things were definitely not going to plan 1.she was a lady 2.we were now on first name terms , whether i liked it or not , and 3.she yet again knew all about me spooky .
third things first , how on earth do you know about palm beach i spluttered ?
remember that lady with the terrible blue rinse hair colouring that you had a few words with as she waited to go ashore last night ?
she said , well , that is my sister , and we speak on the telephone almost every day , i could almost hear the smile in her voice no spy cameras , i promise .
that answered the third question , now for the first , i didnt realise that i was talking to royalty , can i get off my knees yet ?
now that the ice was broken we small talked for a few minutes then i told her all about palm beach .
what a lovely place , but i must admit that it is definitely an acquired taste , but how can i help you ?
i explained that what i needed was a swift course in how to be posh , and also , as an afterthought , how to organise and run a large household .
it had been nagging away at the back of my mind since taking on the last batch of staff .
you will do fine , all you need is your self confidence building up , and then she propositioned me in the nicest possible way .
as i still had over a week left on the sea sprite she would , in a couple of days time , fly out to el campo of course at my expense and go through them like a dose of salts , and after i arrived back in spain she would then spend a few days with me gently rounding off the edges but what i really needed , she half jokingly said , was a lady of the house in other words a wife .
now that shook me up , too soon i retorted , perhaps not quite as light heartedly as the rest of the conversation had been , but she persevered .
how soon is the right time then andrew ?
i am sure that if sheila were listening to us right now she would agree with me , how long do you have to punish yourself for something that was not your fault ?
if the right person comes along dont let her slip by .
you dont own a lonely hearts agency as well do you ?
i asked , trying to pass her comments off lightly , but she had hit a nerve , and so we quickly concluded the conversation still on friendly terms just .
as i put the phone down i cast my mind back to the night before last , when i had been at the carnival .
one of the young students had blithely informed me that if i didnt have anywhere to kip , i could always use her bed , she could use the company .
i was mortified , and when i replied that i had a daughter older that her , she retorted and your point is ?
the world had definitely changed in thirty years , or perhaps it was just me !
i was snapped out of my daydreams by maria , carol , sorry first officer carter would like a quick word with you .
perhaps the ship was sinking , and after telling maria to warn el campo of the impending storm i asked her to show her in .
first officer carter stood in front of me and didnt say a word , she just removed five printouts from a thick folder that she was carrying and laid them out in front of me .
the first was an artists impression of a beautiful looking destroyer carving its way majestically through rough seas .
the second was a copy of a photograph of what i presumed was the same ship , but under construction , and the third , fourth and fifth were hastily drawn sketches of what had to be the same ship again , but now converted into a yacht .
well first officer carter , or may i call you carol , i presume that this has something to do with your right arm ?
please continue .
carol started , she realised that i might only have been joking last night , but hoping against hope that i hadnt , she went through what she had done , and when i didnt throw her out she sat down and re opened up the folder , and we went through the remainder of what she had collected , page by page .
one of the other sketches in the folder was particularly dreadful , it had what looked like a conservatory built over the area between the hangar and bridge structures , very imaginative i think not , this was apparently the feeble effort by the sno senior naval architect , although i had immediately take a liking to one of the original three sketchs , it was signed d. duk he had to be called donald and i put it to one side .
i also liked some of the interior layouts done on a cad computer aided design package by a m. monroe , this has to be a wind up , and those went to one side as well .
i then rang herr flik , introduced myself and after very little preamble it was agreed that he would put a hold on the scrapping of yn 246 , which was due to start in two months time , and carry out a feasibility study for me on the practicalities of converting her into a floating gin palace , or should that be rum punch palace .
i also suggested that donald that indeed was his nick name and marta drat should be allowed to run with their ideas , they seemed to be thinking along the same lines that i was .
initially he was not too happy about this , he would much prefer that the companies sno , his brother , head up the study , but when i told him that i had already seen his contribution and would instantly pull out of the project if he ever came within a thousand metres of my ship my ship ?
, he reluctantly agreed .
we then agreed a fixed price for the study , deductible from the purchase price of course if i went ahead with the project , and he agreed that they would start the study the moment the money arrived in their company account .
it would be there within the hour , but i would lay odds that they were already all hard at work as we spoke , and i must think of another name for her , yn 246 just didnt trip of the tongue very easily .
when i put the phone down i looked up at carol and smiled , then asked her the sixty four thousand dollar question , and what is in this for you then ?
lowering her eyes she whispered perhaps the chief officers berth ?
who were you kidding lady , your sights are set a lot higher than that .
after she left to resume her duties , the poor third officer must be on the verge of collapse by now , i remembered what captain hill had said whilst he had been showing me around my accommodation that first day on board , pop up and see me anytime , so i popped up and saw him , but when he realised my impromptu visit wasnt just a social call we retired to his sea cabin , hoping that the ship wouldnt hit anything whilst he was off the bridge , a fairly safe bet as we were still at anchor .
i talked him through what had just gone on in my suite , and showed him a few of the sketches and the photo .
he whistled through his teeth , agreed with me that it had the makings of a fine ship , he had seen the quality of herr fliks ships first hand , and it were first class , but he correctly guessed that my real reason for the visit was carol carter .
as i was now a senior share holder in the borne line , and as such almost his boss , he felt that he could talk confidentially to me about her , so dispatching the luckless third officer to fetch carols file from below we then went through it page by page , and apart from the write up from the captain of her last ship , her career had been exemplary throughout , and whilst she had been on sea sprite , she had , on numerous occasions , acted up to chief officer , a rank that she had by law to be capable of assuming at a moments notice , and once , during an outbreak of something very nasty , to captain for a week , and didnt break anything .
she has all the qualifications necessary to take a vessel such as this sea sprite , and that he nodded at the printouts to sea , although she might have to complete a couple of refresher courses first to keep the insurers happy .
on a personal note he felt sorry for her , she was an excellent officer , but due to circumstances beyond her control she was in all probability blocked from ever having her own command , so i asked him , off the record , would i be making a mistake if i took her on as the captain of my ship , if not yn 246 then whatever i ended up with ?
he looked me straight in the eyes and said a firm and emphatic no .
assuming that i would want her to supervise the feasibility study he could , if i wished , let me have her as an advisor for one month , starting today , he was unusually flush with deck officers at the moment , but he didnt have the authority to release her from her contract with the company , she had only recently signed on for a further four months , although he could , if i didnt have a problem with it , dismiss her from the ship sack her whenever i liked , and then he hinted at her sexual orientation .
unofficially he knew of her dalliances with some of the guests , after all he was the master , he should know of these things , even though she had been very discreet that explained the smile on marias face .
it hadnt interfered with the smooth running of his ship so he had done a nelson and turned a blind eye , but if it were to be bought to his attention officially , perhaps by a senior shareholder , then he would have to quietly dismiss her perhaps while she was away consulting in germany , as her actions constituted a dismissible offence in the code of conduct of the borne line .
it was definitely time to have a think , and seek some advice , so back in my suite i rang vicente , and he promised to look into the matter and ring me back as soon as possible , which he did , just before dinner .
after dinner , as i left the captains table i walked over to carols table and quietly asked her if she would mind calling in to see me a little later on .
i think some of the other guests thought that i was propositioning her , but i didnt mind , it would do my street cred no end of good , apparently it was much needed .
ten minutes later i sat with a fine cognac in my hand carol only wanted tonic water as she said she was on duty later and offered her the position of director of maritime services , which meant that she would be responsible to me for all things maritime in the michaels household , including that damn marina .
she sat there dazed for a minute then took the glass out of my hand and drained it .
we talked for over two hours about what her responsibilities would be , her salary , her perks , her immediate thoughts on my marina , and what seemed like a hundred other things , including what captain hill had hinted at my code of conduct was more flexible than the bourne lines , and then i asked her how long i would have to wait for her decision .
she walked over to the drinks cabinet , poured two large cognacs and then after handing me one , chinked our glasses and pointed out that she didnt have to worry about drinking and driving the sea sprite anymore , she was just about to be sacked .
after downing her drink , for dutch courage i think , she went off to inform captain hill of her decision , hoping as she went that he hadnt decided on an uncustomary early night , although as she had departed i asked her to be back in my suite by one oclock .
why did i want a beautiful woman to come to my suite at one oclock in the morning ?
simple because i wanted to hold a staff meeting of course , what other reason could there possibly be ?
my rather naive idea had been to formally introduce her to the rest of my motley crew , but on her way to see captain hill , carol had quickly stopped off to tell maria the good news , and maria had then told carol , who told david , who told charlie , and so as i was about to telephone maria to tell her to go and wake the others up , they all came traipsing in .
but why , may you ask , couldnt the introductions wait until morning , well the sea sprite was going to weigh anchor at eight oclock sorry 08 00 or was it the third watch of the first bell or some such thing , and by then i wanted carol and caroline ashore and on their way to el campo .
before we left spain id had a quiet chat with caroline about her position in the new order of things .
i would soon be having a genuine gentlemans gentleman , although i hoped she would still continue to carry out this function whilst we were on trips like this one , that didnt necessitate taking a huge entourage with me , and she readily agreed , it would mean that she would still be with her david ahhh , but the major change that i envisaged for her was that she would perhaps become a sort of director without portfolio , a girl friday , after all i couldnt afford to lose her , i would most probably forget my name !
at the moment she was the only one of my staff that called me andrew , i was boss to david and charlie , jef boss in spanish to maria , and sir or usted a more formal form of sir to everyone else , although i must sort something out with carol , i dont think that i would like to be called admiral .
it was in carolines new capacity of girl friday that i was sending her off in the morning with carol , to introduce her to the people at el campo , get her settled in , show her around , and to get her kitted out with a car , credit cards , some really expensive power suites and a new uniform or two with loads and loads of gold braid .
if carol was going to represent me at meetings , then i wanted her looking the dbs , sorry the business and she was going to start representing me very soon with the marina architects .
the next morning , or a little later that morning to be more precise , i was up bright and early well early anyway .
i saw carol and caroline off , then watched the sea sprite up anchor and hot foot it out to sea , trying to get as far away from land as she possibly could , as apparently the weather was perfect .
captain hill promised us something special , and as the sea sprite increased speed to her maximum comfortable speed , we all settled down to wait and find out what he had in store for us , so , as i wandered around the ship with my faithful hounds at my side , i came across a beautiful bit of shippery , or whatever its correct terminology was , it was the flag staff at the stern .
the red duster was flapping about in the breeze above my head , and as i leaned against the varnished pole i felt all the vibrations of the ship reverberating through my head , and it was as though she was talking to me and as i watched the wake of sea sprite disappearing off towards the horizon i felt a strange peace descend over me it was a truly relaxing experience .
i must make sure that yn 246 has one of these .
that evening , as darkness started to descend , captain hill slowed the ship , and we all went to the pictures .
there was a cinema on board of course , but this was to be something different .
the luckless third officer had obtained a copy of the latest george clooney block buster , and after all the exterior lights were switched off except of course for the navigation lights he showed it to us on a large screen that had been specially rigged up outside .
bonnie lay quietly on my lap , and clyde on charlies , and as the film came to its gripping conclusion the operator shut the projector off , and then did absolutely nothing and we all sat in total darkness .
suddenly bonnie gave a yelp , which made everyone jump , leapt off my lap and jumped up onto a nearby locker beside the guard rail .
she was looking up at the stars , and there were millions upon millions of them , this must be the something special that captain hill had promised us .
away from the industrial haze of the land the sky was a mass of stars , it was as though a huge jet black bowl had been painted on its inside with millions of tiny specs of lights , and then placed on the horizon all around us , and as i held firmly onto her lead , i noticed that bonnie was looking at one part of the sky in particular , then she started barking and wagging her tail , she hadnt acted like this in almost a year .
after i quietened her down a little i remembered a visit that id had to my nan when i was a young lad .
it was shortly after pops had suddenly died , and my mum and dad had taken me to the funeral .
we were staying the night with nan , to help her through the ordeal , and after everyone else had gone home i became very upset , i was missing pops terribly .
nan took my hand and led me outside to look up at the stars , and as we looked at them she told me those twinkling lights are all our friends and relatives that have gone away .
they are all holding lanterns and are waving them at us , to let us know that they still remember us , and that one there pointing to the extra bright polar star is pops , wave to him .
i waved to him , and instantly came to terms with his departing from then on only having the fondest of memories of him .
bonnie continued to stare at that one particular patch of stars , still giving the occasional yelp , and then one of stars momentarily flared up much brighter than the others , and then subsided again .
she then gave another yelp , jumped down , and started to play with clyde , something she hadnt done since before we had embarked on the sea sprite .
of course as i had grown older i hadnt believed nan when she had repeated that story over , and over , and over again , but i still blew sheila a goodnight kiss just in case .
chapter 21 as the elite circled above el campo i looked down at it from my own personal window , and wondered if the pilot had got lost , it looked so totally different .
first off all the runways , taxi tracks , and new roads were all finished , including the new section of taxi track in front of the house , and the house , well that looked finished as well .
i knew that the interior wouldnt be completed yet , but the outside looked just like one of pauls drawings .
the upgraded perimeter fencing surrounding el campo was complete , as was the new guard room building , although the new indoor range opposite it was still just a large hole in the ground , after all it was a late stage add on .
the bomb dump no longer existed , and there were hectic signs of activity down at the marina , although one thing that i hadnt expected to see was the very large hole beside my temporary quarters , and as we taxied in i was half expecting a long line of angry managers , but all that was waiting for me at the bottom of the steps was a small line of edwardian servants , and when i was finally reunited with my favourite armchair the only person to enter my domain was hyacinth .
are you comfortable , would you care for a drink ?
and i am so terribly sorry about my comments , they were totally out of order , she was all of a fluster .
royalty standing , and apologising to me whilst i was seated , i must be getting important , so i stood up and gave her a hug and a kiss on the cheeks spanish style , that stopped her in mid flow , but i was the one that really needed the hug , i hadnt had one since alice had left .
after a long chat with her about the cruise , the stars , and her observations on my marital status , we had another hug , but no kisses this time , her husband might get jealous , and then we got down to business hadnt the woman ever heard of jet lag ?
as promised she had gone through the place like the proverbial dose of salts , but surprisingly there had only been one major problem and i had already seen that at the bottom of the disembarkation steps , nigel had progressed from the boer war , but only into the edwardian era .
the maids were up in arms , and his wife was in despair , but he had dug his heals in he just knew that it was just what his lordship wanted , another name to be added to the list of what i would answer to .
there had also been a few minor problems with the layout of the kitchen , serving areas and restaurant , but paul had readily agreed to her suggestions after she had taken him and his wife out to dinner at mine and vicentes favourite watering hole on my tab of course , and oh what a delightful new director of your own private navy , god almighty , not another one .
most other departments had suffered to varying degrees , but fortunately their problems had been resolved without recourse to my restaurant tab , but what to do about nigel ?
never fear , hyacinth knew a man , he was a toastmaster who ran courses for budding butlers twice a year , perhaps he could help !
hyacinth then instructed maria , who hadnt even had a chance to say hello to carol , to find the number , and fifteen minutes later nigels name was on the next refresher course for professional butlers .
it just happened to be starting in three days time , and would last for approximately one month , how approximate was dependent on course members progress .
at the moment nigel was the only course member .
i broke the news to nigel a little while later , under the guise of retraining him as a major domo , as i had of course taken lady handsworthys advice passed the buck .
a butler was really too old fashioned a position to have in a modern household .
he graciously accepted my offer , and looked forward to meeting ivor again the owner of the school neither of us mentioned the fact that major domo was just a fancy name for butler .
the only other person that i wanted to see before i had a very early night was paul i was very intrigued by the hole that had appeared in the middle of my front garden , and after he poured us both a large scotch i explained to him as he entered that the sun was well and truly over the yard arm as i was still on ships time he collapsed into my second favourite chair , and swore to do that lady serious harm if she ever came within theodolite throwing distance of him , but then he quickly calmed down .
her suggestions had only set him back about three days in the overall scheme of things , and his wife thought she was amazing for her age meow , then he settled down to explain to me the reason for my new hole .
it wasnt just any old hole he informed me it was related to the mysterious phase iv , but he would come to that in a moment .
but , i asked him , where had everything from inside my new hole gone ?
it had been re located , he informed me .
during the replacement of the fencing surrounding el campo several of the long runs undulated , and had kinks in them .
when the fence had originally been constructed , that had been perfectly acceptable , wire can go up and down , and around corners but beams of light cant .
as with many things at el campo , security was going high tech , so the new fencing had to be straight and level .
laser beams and the like preferred straight lines , so some areas of the perimeter had to be raised up , in fact quite a lot of it had to be , to bring the new fencing up to the right level , and there was also the matter of my missing ground floor .
the earth required to gradually build up the surrounding area to the first floor level had to come from somewhere , and i guessed correctly , it had come from my new hole .
i am not stupid by any means , but surly when all the works requiring fresh earth are completed , wont he have to fill the new hole in it sort of defeated the object of the exercise ?
no , i need the hole for phase iv , or at least part of it .
just imagine andrew your very own eighteen hole golf course , with a mix of par three , four , and five holes , and all beautifully landscaped around your very own lake , that has an island in the middle .
it would be absolutely perfect for one of the holes , along the lines of the seventeenth at sawgrass .
i was starting to drool at his description until he got to the bit about the island .
he saw my face drop and quickly went on , think of all the balls that you will be able to salvage from the waters around it .
once hed had a few minutes to spare , after the initial contracts were all up and running , paul had commissioned a geological survey of the triangular area of land that was surrounded by the three runways and where my temporary home is situated .
the geologists had used their feet and walked the site , drilled boreholes , and obtained aerial photography and satellite imagery to give them a very comprehensive three dimensional picture of what lay under the dusty surface , and what they found was a large area that was relatively free of bedrock , and which was ideally suited for excavating , and then turning into a man made lake .
there were only two problems one was a rock pinnacle that terminated just below the soil surface , near to one end of the soon to be very much larger hole .
it had at one time been higher , but when the airfield had been constructed engineers had reduced it , but that problem could be overcome by the creation of my very own island .
the second problem was more serious .
paul couldnt convert the finished hole into a lake , in other words he couldnt find the water to fill it .
the local water authority had a strict policy of not supplying water on this scale for non domestic recreational use , or for even watering the greens after completion .
sea water obviously couldnt be used , and although the survey had shown water deposits below the surface , they were really only suitably for el campos fresh water needs , plus watering of the greens and topping up the lake , if the deposits were to remain at sustainable levels not sucked dry .
paul had then remembered a small article that he had read whilst bringing himself up to date on the latest construction techniques in one of his professional magazines when he was bored to tears at monastery h.a. , just before i had rung him that first time .
a company had recently been formed by a group of entrepreneurs to lasso any passing icebergs and turn them into fresh water , or something along those lines .
paul had then gone into their web site and according to the blurb it would seem that i would make the perfect client .
he estimated that i would need about seven tanker loads of water to fill the lake , their ships werent very big , and they were just about at the production stage , that was the other problem solved .
i know that you cant just dig eighteen small holes around a lake , put flags in them , and call it a golf course , you needed a golf course architect , so paul had three of them visiting me after the weekend lucky old me .
after a good nights sleep i decided to come up to speed why do i use these phrases if i dislike them so much ?
on what had been happening around the homestead whilst i had been away enjoying myself , and although maria was half asleep , she must be suffering from jet lag or something , she quickly sorted out an itinerary for me .
paul would accompany me around all the different areas , but only the pertinent managers would meet me at their particular areas of responsibility , i wasnt into large entourages , and so an hour later we were off first stop , the new main gate we were met by david , charlie and carlos , and i first looked down the freshly surfaced road that wound its way up to the new car park outside the gates , very grand , and then i looked into the hole that was not only going to become the new indoor shooting range , but was also going to have bachelor accommodation built above it that had been carloss idea , as apparently there was a dearth of suitable accommodation for the bachelors in san miguel i hope that the floors are going to be well bullet proofed .
we then went through the shell of the main guard room , and it had an awful lot of wires protruding from its walls , i hoped that someone knew where they all went to .
apparently there was going to be a tremendous amount of hi tec gadgetry in this building but i was assured that agnetha was well on top of it , with charlies help .
i then walked over and had a look at the new roundabout , that sent the traffic either onto the airfield or over to my new home .
it was complete apart from the obligatory palm trees , bushes and flowers which would be arriving in a few days .
into pauls jeep again , and off we went to the main house via the new ramp and disembarked in front of a set of horrible metal doors , although paul quickly assured me that the new hand carved wooden ones would be in place before i moved in .
after donning my own personal white plastic hard hat with boss in gold letters on the front of it we walked through the partially completed entrance hall , and into a breath taking view .
the atrium was by no means complete , but with very little imagination i could visualise what the finished product would be like .
the makings of the pool were there , and the jacuzzi was actually in place , although it still had its protective covering over it .
the steps leading down to poolside were formed , but as yet were not finished in marble , as were the passageways that led around the sides of the atrium .
high above my head was a sloping glass roof , and in front of me a huge glass wall .
apparently they hadnt been too difficult to design , manufacture and install , as they were of a fairly proven design , but unfortunately the thing that was taking the time was the hand formed glass and steel walkway which was to encircle the atrium at first floor level , but yet again it would be installed before i moved in .
i hope so , either that or i would have to make sure that i had an extra large lock on my glass bubble lift it was now opening into open space .
we walked down one of the almost complete corridors , and into another beautiful new lift , which rose almost imperceptibly up to the top floor .
i was shocked the whole floor was complete , including the furniture .
pauls simplistic explanation was throw enough money at a job and it wont take long after all it was basically a fairly straight forward conversion scheme , the likes of which he did for monastery all the time .
as we walked along the long corridor that stretched the entire length of the building , we came upon a tee junction , now that was new .
where had that come from ?
then i remembered the roof over the new taxi track .
it was a triangular shaped passageway , lit by velux skylights and traditional strip lighting , but when we came to the end of the passageway we were greeted by yet another temporary door paul opened it up , but held firmly onto me , my new control tower wasnt being installed until next week .
we then descended one floor into mine and my guests new suites .
all the rooms were formed , all the marble floors were laid , and most of the fittings were installed , and i guessed that it wouldnt be long before they were habitable .
my rooms were going to be the bees knees i was going to say the dogs sphericals but it might have upset paul , even in their unfinished state they were something .
up until this moment i hadnt really clicked with my new home , but now i just couldnt wait to move in .
we couldnt get over to the other wing at this level , the walkway was missing , but not so my bubble , my own personal lift .
as we both squeezed in i looked around for the button , nada , nunca , nothing .
how did i make the damn thing go down , jump up and down ?
paul pointed to a small silver panel just above the floor , it was apparently a touch sensitive pad , and all i had to do was touch it with my toe .
is this the latest must have feature ?
i asked paul .
only if you have a brace of yorkies he replied , it wasnt so much at toe height as nose height .
their own lift , how decadent i hope they would let me use it occasionally .
a quick trip around the ground floor offices and the ball room , which were all well on the way to completion , and then it was into the lift again and down to below stairs .
the new basement was neatly divided into two sections by the swimming pool coming down from above , but they were joined by a corridor which ran under the entrance hall above .
under my wing was the laundry , ironing rooms and other things related to the management of the house , as well as all the household offices , and under the other wing was the kitchen , well i call it a kitchen , it seemed ready to feed the five thousand , without the aid of any fish and the food preparation and serving areas were all cooking on gas .
food , once prepared either went up dumb waiters situated in the household section , and then up into my personal dining room , or the grand dining room , or went by a conveyor belt up into the restaurant cafeteria .
i was fascinated , it all looked complete , and marcel my head chef was beside himself with glee and he took great pleasure in showing me his new collection of meat cleavers .
the conveyor belt was more like an escalator , as it had a system of large rectangular trays which rose automatically when the belt was on an incline , to keep the food containers level and paul asked me if i felt like behaving like a tray of beans .
i was intrigued , so i foolishly said yes .
i didnt realise that this actually meant climbing up onto the belt , but still i apprehensively clambered aboard after all if it was safe enough for a tray of beans then it must be safe enough for me , and with a quick nod to marcel , and the press of a button we rose serenely up into the restaurant cafeteria , or as i will from now on be referring to it as , the greenhouse .
the serving areas were compete , down to a coffee pot bubbling away on the counter , and the mezzanine floor restaurant was also finished , as was the one underneath it the one underneath it ?
that was definitely not on any plans that i had ever seen .
this was one of lady hyacinths ideas she reckoned that marcel would soon get very bored serving up a banquet for one every day just for me , plus menu del dia for everyone else , so what she had come up with was that i and i use the word i very loosely could instigate a system that involved my friends and neighbours .
perhaps every now and then they could come over for a free lunch .
they would have to specify what they would like to eat beforehand , challenging marcel to produce their favourite dishes .
throw in a conducted tour around the place and she reckoned that we would have a queue stretching twice around the block .
looking at the area it looked very plush it could seat eight people in surroundings comparable to any five star restaurant .
there would have to be strict guidelines to stop the system being abused but i thought it was an excellent idea , and it would also keep the remainder of the catering staff on their toes as well .
after the house it was back into pauls jeep next stop were the hangars .
the nearest one to the house , a hangar was for aircraft how surprising , and at the moment it held georges tiger moth and the harvard , which were tucked away under covers in a corner .
in a lined off section there was a ground equipment area with everything from tools to the mobile steps that i had descended when vacating the elite , but there was still ample room for visiting corporate jets whoopee .
b hangar at the moment held all the vehicles .
it was our temporary car park but most of them would be moved into the underground car park , in the sub basement when it was finished .
i hadnt visited the sub basement on my tour as its just full of builders stuff paul had informed me , and i had definitely had enough of builders stuff .
when the vehicles were finally relocated , this hangar would be home to my two new airfield fire engines , and the crash and salvage equipment i dont like the sound of them , plus it would also be the overflow hangar for any visiting aircraft , oh to be so popular .
marcus , at my instigation had contacted a specialist agency which had quickly provided , under contract , a specialist , trained in airfield safety .
that someone had turned out to be an ex fleet air arm chief aircraft handler named chalky white , apparently in the navy that was what all whites were nicknamed , although i doubted if vicente would be very happy , chalky was of nigerian decent .
he was also a very experienced aircraft handling , fire fighting , air traffic controller , and he had already started to train up volunteer firemen and firewomen from davids security staff they would receive extra pay for their extracurricular activities , and he would man my control tower personally when it was completed .
among his many and varied duties he would be controlling all airfield movements when aircraft were about , via a mass of traffic lights situated on the ground at strategic points around the taxi way , but at the moment , when a large aircraft visited , i had to borrow fire fighting tenders from the nearby international airport , but when chalky had finished his training programme , with the exception for the very very large aircraft , i would be self sufficient .
c hangar , i had apparently agreed , could be used by any of my staff for their own personal projects , at the moment there was a half completed steam engine in it , a stripped down motor boat and half a dozen caravans including georges repaired one .
it was the first time that i had seen it since the accident and i definitely wasnt happy about it , it would have to go , and quickly .
i also glanced around for winnie , but then i remembered that i had left it with roger and spotty jean as a thank you for looking after bonnie and clyde .
there was also a smaller hangar perhaps i would call it little c , or c and a half on the end of the line .
it was being used for outside mobile machinery at the moment , anything from a jcb to a dust cart i was certainly collecting the gear .
these werent the only hangars that i had decided to keep , on the other side of the airfield , between what was the old bomb dump , and the marina were three quite large ones now named x , y z , along with their own capacious hard standing .
in their previous lives one had been used for long term maintenance projects on aircraft , and the other two for aircraft storage .
they were in surprisingly good condition so on the spur of the moment i had decided to have them renovated , along with the shells of two offices workshops crew room complexes situated between them why i hadnt the faintest idea it just seemed like a good idea at the time .
they were definitely work in progress lowest priority , but who knows perhaps one day i would find a use for them .
finally , it was a smooth drive down a freshly tarmacd road and into to the marina for a chat with carol , and she was resplendent in a designer power suit , and yellow wellies , very fetching , and between them paul and carol pointed out what i had yet again apparently agreed to .
first the jetty and the sea wall would be renovated and security barriers installed on the top of them .
on the landward side of the sea wall the narrow walkway would be extended into a full blown jetty capable of taking lorries or cranes , and that was where yn 246 , or whatever i ended up with , would lay alongside , after a dredger had first cleared away years of silt .
as i looked on , there were a series of large wooden piles being driven into the seabed close to the shore , but when finished , they would extend out towards the seawall .
pontoons would then be shackled to them and they would become home to the smaller boats , harbour craft , and possibly some dinghies .
the existing slipway would be smartened up , and then used for launching or hauling boats in or out of the water , and up into the new workshop at the end of it .
on the level ground , beside the new workshop would be the new maritime services main building .
it would house the offices , store rooms and restrooms , along with a sail loft , rigging shop for the dinghies , classroom conference room and the duty boatmans office and bedroom .
i liked the idea of a classroom i was all in favour of any of my family , friends or staff learning to sail .
to one side of the slipway would go my new boat house , in which the riva aquarama runabout , that i had just had to have on arrival in the caribbean , would reside , out of the rain when i wasnt tearing about the mediterranean in her .
carol raised the point that she would soon need a good bosun to look after the place .
that , i explained , was why i was paying her so many euros , it was definitely her problem .
all the hirings and firings were her part of ship now , just keep me updated regularly , and then i asked her when she was visiting yn 246 .
alice was paying me a quick visit tomorrow which was news to me so she would be using the same aircraft to fly on to germany .
she would soon get the hang of it and hire her own , instead of borrowing someone elses .
as paul and i drove back to my air side quarters i asked him when i could expect to move into my new home ?
the basement , with its household and kitchen areas could be fully functioning in as little as three weeks , along with the greenhouse and the training of the staff had already begun .
i could be eating over there from then on , if i wished , but the living accommodation would take about a further three weeks to complete , with the landscaping , depending on the weather taking a further month , but what mrs blake the house keeper had hinted at was that it would be very convenient if i were to be away for about three weeks following the completion of the works , it would give her time to get things cleaned properly and have everything up and running smoothly before i moved in .
that sounded like a very good idea to me i needed some quality time with my children not just flying visits .
chapter 22 as she looked down on yn 246 for the first time , it looked so very small and insignificant tucked away in its huge dry dock .
this was after all the place where mighty battleships had been born a mere destroyer would not have even warranted a footnote in the shipyards glory days , but this was not its glory days a rowing boat would make todays front page news .
carol was met at the airport by donald and marta , and were all sedately transported in herr fliks private car a vintage rolls royce , he appreciated good engineering directly to the shipyard , but the chauffer paused momentarily at a vantage point that overlooked the yard to give carol her first glimpse of what they all hoped would become a lifebelt for them , and then , as they continued on , and approached the dockyard gate , the traffic was stopped , to make way for them .
she assumed that it was for the car , just in case herr flik was on board , but as she approached the main admin building she began to realise that it was for her , everyone but the night watchman was there to greet her .
herr flik welcomed her and whisked her inside into her office all she had expected was a portacabin , was this luxury , or what , and helmut , please you call me helmut , explained that it had once been his brothers office , but his services were now no longer required , and so they all , well as many as could fit into it had a welcoming drink , that tried to take the lining off her throat , and burn a hole in her stomach wall , she quite liked it .
after what seemed like a hundred introductions things started to quieten down , until finally there was just herr flik sorry helmut , donald and marta and a mound of drawings left in the room .
after another application of tonsil lubricant , this time not quite so destructive to her vital organs , even helmut left , to let her get down to business , no rest for the wicked .
first donald explained that her bags would be taken by the chauffer to her hotel suite , and then he would return with the keys to a dockyard car , which she could use for the duration of her stay , she hoped it hadnt been used by helmuts brother prior to her arrival , it might be booby trapped , and then it was really down to business .
both of them could speak passable english , but martas was fractionally better so she took the lead , and as carol was escorted out of the office , and climbed into a waiting jeep , she explained that she should expect to be treated as a celebrity for the next few days a lot was riding on this order .
that was good news to carol she would pass it on to the negotiating team , if things got that far , it might save them a few million .
as they neared yn 246 her first impression was quickly washed aside , it was big , it was beautiful , and hopefully it was going to be hers , maybe not as the owner but as captain , that was much more to her liking all the fun none of the expense .
all the cocooning had been removed , as well as a substantial amount of the mothballing , and the whole vessel had been given a spring clean , for a ship under construction she looked pretty neat and tidy , and as carol looked down on it in the dry dock , she felt an affinity starting to grow inside her , andrew just had to buy this beauty .
it felt strange calling her new employer by his first name but that was what he wanted , and if that back there was the reception that she got , she dreaded to think what it would be like for him .
donning a hard hat , which had kapitan printed on the front , and gold braid felt tipped on the peak who said that germans dont have a sense of humour , they walked over the gangplank , and as her foot touched the steel deck for that first time it was as though she had received an electric shock , which was impossible , the dock side electricity supply had yet to be switched on .
it was as if the ship was communicating with her and that was another good sign .
after they had walked the main deck and the flight deck above it , she had a look around the partially completed bridge .
it definitely felt as though she had come home the signs were getting better all the time there was nobody as superstitious as a mariner .
after someone had found the electrics switch they ventured below decks , and she was verily surprised with the installation of the floor covering and a coat or two of paint most areas would be finished , and the engine room looked as though it was ready to respond to the bridges commands .
they finally found daylight and exiting yn 246 , and gingerly made their way down several flights of well worn stone steps to the bottom of the dock .
it was just awesome to stand under the keel and look up at all those thousands of tonnes poised just above her head , but she felt safe , she knew that this ship , her ship , would not hurt her , although as they returned to her office she vowed to wear something more practical the following day , then the three of them quickly went through some preliminary drawings .
carol liked donalds exterior work , but again it was martas interior designs that she preferred , and she was definitely the computer wiz kid of the pair , but they seemed to work well together , and that was the main thing .
it was certainly going to be a long hard couple of weeks .
after five days the three of them flew down to el campo for a working weekend .
they went through reams of new drawings , and talked through loads of ideas with andrew , and then it was back to the drawing board early monday morning for more fine tuning , but what was becoming clear though was the direction in which they were all heading they were definitely all singing from the same hymn sheet yn 246 will at all costs keep her seaworthiness her capabilities would not be degraded just for the sake of looking aesthetically pleasing pretty .
all her weather decks will be sheathed in two inch thick teak planking , although the flight deck would remain as it was steel , and capable of taking any helicopter up to the size of a large chinook .
the superstructure , with the exception of the flight deck will be constructed of aluminium alloys , instead of steel , to reduce top weight as hopefully there wouldnt be to many exocets arriving unannounced , and the open space between the bridge and the flight deck hangar will be filled in there is no real requirement for torpedo tubes on a civilian ship , and the owner guest accommodation located in it .
the flush main or upper deck already extended unbroken from stem to stern , and the outside weather deck as the name suggests it will be open to the elements , will eventually run continuously around the entire superstructure , surrounding the owners and guests cabins , the owners harbour suit taking up the entire aft end of it .
all cabins will have large toughened windows overlooking the weather deck , but they will be protected from inclement weather by large metal screens which will hinge down from the deck head above when needed .
the deck above the sleeping quarters will be where the guests living areas will be situated .
the lounge , dining room and other facilities and when there are no helicopters on board the guests will also be able to walk aft through heavy duty fire doors into the hangar , and then out onto the flight deck , perhaps for a cockers p cocktail party or two .
the weather decks outside this area will also lead around the outsides of the hangar and back to the flight deck .
above the living areas deck will be the bridge deck , and this will be the operational heart of the ship .
aft of the bridge , the superstructure will lead back as far as the hangar , and it will be where all the navigation , radio and monitoring equipment for the engines and other machinery will be situated .
it will also be where the owners and the captains sea cabins will be located .
the open flying bridge , will be above that , and the sleek low funnel , which will be situated just aft of it , will be home to the two huge rr northrop grumman engines exhausts .
up about the flying bridge will be a huge array of aerials , antennas and other bits of hi tec ery she was going to be that sort of ship .
down below the main deck , the almost complete crew deck already ran from the bow , right back to the stern with corridors leading around the engine room space , and it will be home to the galley , the crews living quarters which will of course all be upgraded to a standard befitting a luxury yacht .
the ships sick bay hospital will also be situated on this level along with a few other communal services .
as 246 will have quite a few empty spaces within its hull no requirement for all the military bits and pieces of the previous would be owner there will also be emergency accommodation for any survivors or evacuees that she might encounter on her travels .
aft of the engine room , that bit of the deck will be reserved for the officers and senior rates accommodation .
the services deck , below the crews deck , will be where the offices , laundry , store rooms , cold stores , and other assorted service compartments will be situated , although the part of the deck that was below the officers accommodation at the stern would be left empty for the time being or perhaps not david had had a quiet word with her .
below the service deck the remaining decks are where the bulky machinery , fuel tanks and the rest of the gubbins that makes a ship tick , are , but for now , the area forward of the bridge was causing a bit of a problem andrew had specifically stated that he had absolutely no requirement for an anti aircraft missile system , or even a quick fire multi purpose gun , so there was now just a big flat area in front of the bridge , where the missiles should have gone , and a hole in the fore deck where the big gun would have slotted in .
the hole wasnt much of a problem paint its insides blue , fill it with water and call it a swimming pool .
it might be a strange place to have a pool , but when the nearest piece of land might be a thousand miles away , who was going to notice , but what to do with the redundant missile launching area was not so easy to resolve .
if it was left empty the superstructure looked like a box on top of the hull .
put a king size open air jacuzzi there as donald had suggested and there would be no end of problems trying to protect it from the elements , but then marta put in her two pennth how about an observation area .
her idea was to extend the superstructure of the accommodation deck level forward x amount of meters and put a bit of a sloping roof on it , just until the ships silhouette looked about right she was very precise , install armoured windows in the forward end with very big windscreen wipers on them and voila in a storm it would become the best stomach churning roller coaster ride in the world , especially if the stabilisers were switched off .
now that definitely had possibilities .
by the end of week two , and two further flying visits to el campo , the general layout had been agreed with andrew , and then the drawings , by this time quiet numerous and detailed , were handed over to the rest of the design team and the number crunching department to carry out the detail work .
as the two years would not be up for a few weeks , and with the initial stage out of the way , perhaps she could squeeze in a quick break with her scott .
she was certainly not regretting her job change so far , especially as she hadnt ended up being fired from the borne line , but first she had to introduce andrew to yn 246 .
chapter 23 captain hill contacted mrs borne before he did anything irreparable about first officer carter , and she was verily pleased that he did .
stephanie borne quickly rang her financial advisors , stock broker , solicitor , and finally me that very same day , andrew , will it be convenient for me to call on you again sometime very soon ?
quickly followed by i promise you there will be no funny business .
her husband had died five years previously , and if she was going to go in for any of that it would be with captain colin hill unless she had a better offer , but the only day that was suitable to us both was unfortunately the same day that the three golf course architects were visiting , still it couldnt be helped as she was off on the chairmans grand cruise the following day .
she hated the title chairperson i was starting to like her more and more so i agreed to squeeze her in was that an ooh !
that i heard down the phone ?
oh , by the way stephanie , do you know anything about golf ?
anything about golf ?
she retorted , i am a demon , every spare minute i get is spent on the golf course .
it even turned out that she was the president of her local very high profile golf club , and she readily agreed to help me with my plan .
she arrived early , and after a quick chat with paul and eddie , she was up to speed , she used that phrase a lot going off of her again , apparently she had dealt with course designers many times before and enjoyed taking them apart .
before they arrived the architects had all done their homework well they had received the aerial photos and geological survey report from paul , and an in depth breakdown of andrew michaels , his wealth , his demeanour and golfing ability from professional investigators .
they then drew their plans and thought that it was going to be like taking candy from a baby but they hadnt factored stephanie borne into their equations .
they arrived at lunch time , of course expecting one , but as everyone knows there is no such thing as a free lunch .
we sent two of them off on walkabouts with eddie , and invited the remaining one into my office it was like leading a lamb into the lions den .
it didnt take long a quarter of an hour later and he was out again , in total shock , and swiftly back off to his drawing board , and the same thing happened to the other two , they would all have another two weeks to come up with very much improved designs , and forget the silly money .
following the slaughter of the architects i took stephanie for a well deserved free lunch at my favourite restaurant as i was forever paying the tab there i now claimed it as my own and over a lazy meal steph getting more informal by the minute came to the point of the visit , and it wasnt carol , well not directly .
she explained that she only held forty five percent of the shares in the company , her late husband had been a great sailor but unfortunately a lousy businessman , and as i owned an awful lot but not quite enough to carry out a hostile takeover bid she wondered if eyelids batting i would let her have some of mine , not all of them , just enough to give her a fifty one percent controlling interest in the company .
whilst some unscrupulous people might hike the price up a bit , steph wondered if as i didnt really need the extra money i would let her have them at the current market price and as a thank you she would waive carols contract .
if i was ever stupid enough to let her go , not having a blot on her records would improve carols chances of obtaining another position immensely , so after confirming that i would still be eligible for the owners suites i readily agreed although hopefully i would soon be having my own owners suite .
after bidding steph a fond farewell too fond for my liking , i was ever so slightly tempted to have that extra bottle of wine i returned to my thought of the day , what to call yn 246 ?
numbers were definitely out , and so was any name with sheila in it , i knew that i had to move on , but the lady s had a nice ring to it after all , the s could stand for any number of names .
chapter 24 it was at the end of carols second week that i finally met up with yn 246 she hadnt officially been named yet , and on carols advice i told no one at the dockyard of my intended visit , so dockyard security wouldnt let me in , but fortunately just as i was about to go away in a huff carol came and signed for me .
unfortunately there was no getting away from the boring bits , meeting herr flik and his directors formally in the board room and the design team in their offices , but then after that everyone seemed to get in on the act even the coffee lady renamed tea lady for carols benefit spoke almost perfect english , but finally carol , with herr flik , donald and marta in tow managed to formally introduce me to the new love in my life , although she was a lot lighter than when carol had first met her .
as carol , donald and marta agreed that some part or other of the structure was definitely redundant , out it came , after all it was going to end up on the scrap heap one way or another , and she was turning out to be a beauty , even though she was only half completed .
when we returned to the board room it was a double dose off schnapps all round , but thankfully not herr fliks extra potent variety , and then it was time to go to the pictures .
what the design team had done was create a virtual image of lady s , so first off they showed me how she would look like naked stripped to bare metal , and then they got the paintbrush out , first the hull .
what colour would you like it ?
that was easy , green .
what shade of green ?
they asked , and that was a slightly more difficult question to answer as they had thirty eight different shaded of green in their repertoire , and i quickly became torn between kelly , office and british racing green , but that could be finalised later , although i definitely wanted a gold stripe running down the side of the hull , just like the royal yacht .
real gold ?
what a stupid question .
the superstructure would be mainly white , although lemon chiffon looked quite nice as well , but a compromise was quickly reached and the lady s set sail , in this programme she was already lady s , it was written on her stern in gold lettering of course , and the programmers really put her through her paces , whether it was cruising in the caribbean , riding at anchor at sunset , or full speed ahead in stormy waters , with and without stabilisers .
computers have certainly come a long way since my old atari pong days .
i was even promised a copy of the programme to help me to fine tune my requirements if the order went ahead , if i had a computer large enough to run it cheeky !
but even before the hard sell began i already knew in my own mind that this ship was for me , although i wouldnt let on just yet , it might just save me a few million euros , and finally , as i thanked carol for a job well done so far and said my goodbyes to all and sundry i told her to take a short break before returning to el campo , and go and have some quality time with her son , after what she had come up with in just 2 weeks she deserved it , and then it was back to el campo for me for something to eat .
it was a grand occasion when the greenhouse opened its doors for business for the first time , and of course i had to be the first one to officially sample the fair , although fortunately the catering staff had all been using the cafeteria for over a week , perks of the job .
marcel was resplendent in his chefs whites , nigel , just back from his three week course he was a quick learner was wearing his new gucci business suit , florence , his wife , was almost in a very expensive designer label , and the waiting staff were more than happy in their new with it uniforms , but i was in jeans and jumper nobody had bothered to tell me that it was also going to be a party .
by decree i had let it be known to all and sundry that all members of staff , whilst gainfully employed within the bounds of el campo could use the cafeteria for their meals free of charge , and managers could use the mezzanine restaurant at any time as one of their perks , and today it seemed that virtually every one of my employees , and there were now starting to be an awful lot of them , were at work either that or catching up with their paperwork , and as is the norm in spain wine was on the tables , so by late afternoon there was a very relaxed atmosphere , i had the feeling that this place was going to be well used .
as i sat on the mezzanine , suitably relaxed , i looked down and watched paul and eddie bathe in their reflected glory .
they had both done an excellent job on the greenhouse but their time with me was on the wane , not for a while hopefully , as the marina had still to be finished , and the golf course had yet to be even started , but i would imagine that they must be thinking of what lay ahead for them post andrew michaels .
originally i had offered to finance them if they wished to set up in business together but recently i had been thinking of giving them both a career change .
paul had been , before my accident , my friend .
as a consultant at el campo he was still my friend , and so i had no intention of embarrassing him by offering to employ him .
i had something in mind that would suit him much better .
he was a christian , not a bible bashing , in your face , church going christian i sometimes found those types to be not very christian like behind closed doors .
paul was christian , in everything he did he always saw the good in people , and would be the first to offer a helping hand to those in need , and readily forgave those that had transgressed , but had then repented he was also always the first to put his hand in his pocket to help a worthwhile cause and what i had in mind was to become his pocket .
when itza had told me about his charitable trust i asked vicente to look into the possibility of setting up the same sort of thing for me , and he had finally come back to me a few weeks ago , and it had given me a lot to think about .
one of the many worthwhile causes that itza thought might be of interest to me was green issues , not the colour of my boat but doing something to help save the planet .
very noble i thought , but what could i do on my own , apart from throwing loads of money at every crackpot scheme that came along .
then i thought of paul , he would make the perfect trust fund manager .
what would paul do with loads of money ?
good question so i leaned over the mezzanine rail and gave him a wave .
once i had his attention i signalled him to come up and see me .
paul , what would you do if i gave you a hundred million euros ?
retire he retorted , i was just explaining to maria how we joined the framework to the end wall and you called me away to play games humph .
i am sure that maria would be thanking me later for saving her from a fate worse than death , but i came back at him with i am not playing games .
when he picked his jaw up off the floor i explained what i had in mind , my carbon footprint was terrible , so what i needed was for him to do some serious offsetting for me .
el campo would soon become self sufficient in its water and electricity needs once the solar panel farm in place of the old bomb dump was up and running or rather , sat there sunbathing , and the groundwater extraction pumps were on line , but all this jetting about was seriously blotting my copy book in the eyes of the eco warriors , and i dreaded to think what the lady s would do to it .
i really needed someone i could trust to do some serious offsetting for me , big time .
a rather glazed paul it had nothing to do with the relaxed atmosphere left to think about it , and suddenly the attachment fittings didnt seem as important as they did a few minutes ago .
that was one of them gob smacked , now for the other one .
el campo was starting to flourish in its own right , but it needed nurturing .
someone had to start looking after it full time , and no one knew the place better that eddie .
eddie have you got a minute please .
he bounded up the staircase three steps at a time , and when he arrived i benevolently asked him eddie , would you care to become my estate manager ?
love to , when ?
after the house is finished .
great , and then he was back amid a large gaggle of females .
well that had taken all of twenty seconds what will i do for the remaining forty .
chapter 25 three weeks later i was sent to coventry by mrs blake , i had done nothing wrong , that was where robin and family had finally decided to set up home .
it wasnt in the city centre of course prices were much too extortionate there it was in a delightful little village on the outskirts .
they had managed to find a quaint little country house on the side of an idyllic lake , it only had twenty rooms but we all managed to squeeze in somehow .
their new home was in fact a seventeenth century listed building , apparently designed by inigo jones himself , and of course when i say their new home , guess who actually signed the cheque , i had to get them a belated wedding present now didnt i. i spent the first two weeks doing what every new grandfather does , watch the nanny feed his grandson , watch her change his nappy whilst i held my nose , and watch her push him around the grounds im not into the hands on way of doing things , although i do like children especially with roast potatoes and broccoli , although i did manage to push him down to the pub occasionally .
when i wasnt exerting myself doing all that grandfatherly stuff i walked bonnie and clyde , and tried to hone my sailing and golfing skills or lack of them , then my tranquillity came to an abrupt end .
alice turned up , with bert in tow .
i knew from the moment that they set foot in the house that i wasnt in for a smooth ride alice was in a foul mood .
they must have had a domestic on the way down , although bertha was surprisingly quiet , unlike at christmas , and she wouldnt even meet my eyes , so i knew the problem must be big .
when i had finally come to terms with my increased bank balance , as i had lain there in the hospital , i gave robin and alice half a million pounds each to play with , whilst i sorted out something more permanent , and what vicente finally advised me to do was set up a trust fund for each of them .
the problem wasnt robin , he had his head well and truly screwed on right , it was alice i dreaded to think what she would do with mega bucks , so what i created was a twenty five million pound inter vivos trust living will for each of them , with my old english solicitor as trustee , he was not only a very conscientious solicitor , he was also a very good friend .
the children would always have loose change in the bank but any serious withdrawals would require his counter signature before the transaction went ahead , with the situations being reassessed every year on their birthdays , and the trusts seemed to have worked fine , until robins birthday six weeks ago , as he was now married i released the full amount to him , but alice apparently had then assumed that i would do the same thing for her on her birthday a couple of weeks ago , and promised bertha untold gifts .
when i didnt , she went ballistic i was everything nasty under the sun , starting with homophobic .
i must admit that it had been a bit of a shock when alice had outed herself , but i had come to terms with that .
what i hadnt come to terms with was berthas demeanour , i just didnt like her .
even if she hadnt been involved with my daughter i doubt if i would have ever passed more than two words with her , she really wasnt my type , in more ways than one .
if that makes me a snob then so be it , i would not be forced into liking someone at someone elses behest .
alice at first was livid , then she calmed down slightly , and after a quiet word with bertha she suggested that the three of us go for a pub lunch tomorrow to try and find some common ground between us .
i doubted if it would work but i was willing to give it a try , although what i didnt realise was that it was bertas idea in the first place .
the next day at one oclock sharp robins chauffer dropped alice , bertha , david , caroline , charlie and myself off at the entrance to the pub car park , i had arbitrarily decided at the beginning of my visit that the limo was much too large a vehicle to manoeuvre safely around its car park , and anyway the exercise would do me good ! !
as we left the limo and slowly made our way towards the pubs entrance , bertha and alice held back they were trying to find something that bertha had apparently dropped , and a very nice man stepped forward and pointed a very big gun at david and charlie i would normally have called him an uncouth yob but i am sure that someone would try suing me for loads of dosh , and his associate flung his arm around my throat and rammed a very hard gun muzzle into my neck , now that smarted , i hoped that charlie would hurry up and sneeze !
eight months ago , as i lay immobile in hospital , after david had given his armful of blood , he had deliberately omitted to go through the procedure about what i should do if situations like this arose , as i was bed ridden , but fortunately as i regained my health he gradually introduced me to them , and for the last couple of months , two or three times a week david and charlie would create scenarios of what to do if this , or that was to happen , in the comfort of my temporary gym , and this situation was covered in book one , chapter one , page one , line one wait until charlie sneezes , and charlie sneezed .
fortunately charlies hands were in plain sight so the gunmen glanced at him , realised that he wasnt a threat , just had a cold and returned to the job in hand , but unfortunately for him as charlie sneezed , i retracted my undercarriage .
i didnt just bend my knees or lean forward after months of training i beat gravity .
it took me a while to perfect the technique , on very soft mats , but i finally had and getting some very sore knees in the process .
tweedle dumb for want of a better name , whose job it was to hold on to me found that i was disappearing rapidly in a downward direction , and there was nothing that he could do about it , i was , metaphorically speaking , a dead weight .
he lifted heavy things most days but even he couldnt hold me up using just one arm , and as he watched me writhe in agony on the concrete car park he felt a pain in his left shoulder .
he looked down and saw the handle of a knife protruding from it .
ouch !
that hurt he thought , and then his left arm went numb .
fortunately he was left handed and the gun dropped to the concrete beside me .
tweedle dee ditto , whose job it was to cover both charlie and david glanced at charlie , and seeing that both of charlies hands were in plain sight he switched his gaze back to david , but unfortunately in that time david had grown a third eye , or to be more precise , a black eye , with a foresight above it , and out of this eye came a lump of lead travelling at three hundred and fifty metres per second .
after the back of his head was removed he dropped his weapon as well , but unfortunately the fun and games werent quite finished yet as a very grand daimler limo was entering the very same car park as these events were unfolding , and on the back seat of the car resided the lord chief justice of england and wales , also on his way to for pub lunch , and as he was a very important person he warranted an so1 special protection branch of the metropolitan police bodyguard .
on seeing what was unfolding before him inspector james wood ordered the driver beside him to reverse out of harms way , but unfortunately there was a large lorry stationary behind them , waiting in a queue of traffic for the traffic lights to change , but all was not lost though he thought , no bullet from a hand gun was ever going to penetrate this vehicle , so he told his lordship to hit the deck just in case which he didnt and then sat back to watch the fun and games .
he had immediately recognised david williams from several of the specialist courses that he had attended over the years , so he knew that david had the situation well under control , until he spotted a battered old volvo start up its engine , smoke billowing from its exhaust and come charging out of its parking bay directly at davids back .
instinctively inspector wood leaped from the car and drew his personal weapon .
resting it on top of the door frame he squeezed off two quick shots , then another two , just as david had taught him .
the first two rounds entered the near side front tyre of the volvo and caused the desired effect the car swerved and collided with a parked car , and the second two entered the cars front grill , passed through the radiator and rearranged some electrical bits and pieces in the engine bay , causing the engine to take no further interest in the proceedings .
david , after double tapping killing tweedle dee heard a car start up behind him and then felt four bullets pass close by , and as he instinctively dove for cover behind another parked car he caught a brief glimpse of the new gunman , and fortunately he recognised him .
he had taught an awful lot of people in his time in the army but this one he remembered .
his performances in the team building exercises that they usually carried out on completion of his courses in the bar were legendary , and as he disentangled himself from a bicycle that had been lurking behind the car david saw inspector wood race by him and point his gun directly at the driver of the volvo .
after the borrowed car had come to rest against crashed into another vehicle tweedle even dumber did arguably the brightest thing in his entire life , he did absolutely nothing .
with his hands in plain sight on the steering wheel inspector wood had no reason to terminate his existence , so he just kept pointing his gun at an imaginary spot just between his eyes , and as he sat there looking down the business end of inspector woods hand gun he wished that he had never listened to his sister , and just stuck to joy riding , then he wondered where that horrible smell was coming from .
where was i whilst all these jollifications were going on , i was on the ground writhing in agony .
i had broken an ankle and knac ... damaged both my knees , but no one seemed to want to take the slightest bit of interest in me , until caroline , who had hit the ground a milli second after me , crawled across and started to behave like a nurse .
then i thought of alice , with all these bullets flying around i wanted to make sure that she was safe .
i looked in the direction of the car park entrance and saw that alice was alongside the daimler .
first i saw her screaming at bertha , then as bertha tried to flee the scene , dear sweet little alice grappled her to the ground and started to pound her head onto the concrete this was definitely not turning into a relationship made in heaven , and as i lay there struggling to push caroline off me , so that i could somehow hobble to alices aid , a rather distinguished gentleman exited the daimlers rear door and pulled alice off of her , unfortunately before she could do too much permanent damage to her .
the chauffer also exited the car and sat on bertha , it wasnt a very scientific form of restraint but as bertha was unconscious , it was totally effective .
as tweedle dumber was being dragged out of the car by inspector wood , he started to scream at the chauffer to get off his sister , and then , with just a little more encouragement , he then started to suffer from verbal diarrhoea as well .
apparently his sister bertha had been rather miffed when it looked as though she wasnt going to get anything significant out of alice , so she hastily recruited two local thugs and dwain tweedle dumber to kidnap me , and then hold me to ransom , obviously they hadnt heard of the expression working for a living .
when two armed response vehicles full of so19 team members arrived a few minutes later they found tweedle dumb with a tie wrap around his wrists , and a knife handle protruding from his shoulder , propped up against the volvos front wheel , tweedle dumber handcuffed to its door frame and smelling to high heaven , alice sobbing uncontrollably into the shoulder of the lord chief justice , david and charlie trying to look innocent with two big guns in their hands , me writhing on the concrete with caroline still trying to tend me , and inspector wood preserving the crime scene .
lord fox wouldnt let the incoherent alice go just yet , he wasnt one hundred percent sure where she fitted into all of this , but he hoped she was one of the good guys as he really liked her perfume .
inspector wood had already been on his personal radio so there was no more gunplay , although the car park would be nicknamed the ok corral for many years to come , and with the lord chief justice as an eye witness there werent going to be too many problems for david and charlie , but they still had to temporarily give up their firearms and submit to a seemingly endless amount of questions back at the station , so when the first ambulance arrived i was loaded into it , and the lord chief justice detailed off two so 19 team members to babysit me until the colonel could organise something who was going to argue with him .
after a week in hospital i flew home with a new fangled fibre glass plaster cast on my leg , as broken ankles go it was pretty pitiful but it still hurt like hell .
my knees initially were a bit more problematic , but after the surgeons carried out a double arthroscopy on them to trim off some damaged cartilage i was up and hobbling a couple of days later .
the gulfstream g450 came to rest directly outside my new hand carved wooden front doors yet another thing to go on my wish list the plane not the doors , and i hobbled down its steps , directly into a strategically placed wheel chair , caroline had decided that with all the sightseeing that i was about to be doing it would be best done from the comfort of my trusty old chair .
i was met by all and sundry , and after a group photograph i accepted the keys to my new home officially from paul , more photographs , and as i glided serenely into the atrium i was stunned even more photographs , everything was finished .
trees and bushes abounded and in the pool , happily splashing about were robin , emma , baby mark and a rather shy alice , swiftly joined by bonnie and clyde youve guessed it , yet more photographs .
alice and i had talked ourselves silly over the past few days , i knew and more importantly , the police knew that she had not been complicit in berthas plot , and as she had only used reasonable force to restrain a fleeing suspect there would be no action taken against her , although she did receive a rather nice letter from the lord chief justice asking her what the name of her perfume was , his wifes birthday was coming up soon .
david and charlie were also free to come back to spain with me , although they would have to return in due course to attend the coroners court hearing , and that was fine by me , although i would object bitterly if tweedle dumber dwain sent me his dry cleaning bill .
the rest of the tour was very enjoyable although i would happily have used davids new gun on the photographer .
all departments were up and running , and everything was to my total satisfaction , if it hadnt been then i had threatened to knock a couple of noughts off the final bill although there were so many of them i doubted if anyone would noticed , but after nearly two hours of sightseeing the final room on my tour was my bed room , where i remained , comatose , until the next day .
whilst i had been away enjoying myself ?
in england my temporary encampment had been removed and the hole had grown even larger , reaching its final dimensions , although it had yet to be properly landscaped , and the first tanker of water wasnt due for a couple of weeks , although i was rather disappointed that there wasnt a giant plug and chain at the bottom of it .
now that i was in my permanent home i could entertain visitors like a normal person , and from day one i had streams of them , ranging from family to virtual strangers .
i was now on the must visit list with a vengeance , although it wasnt all one way though , i started to receive reciprocal invitations , but usually somewhere in the shrubbery there was an unattached lady or two .
a little while ago , after i had been on my spending spree in the pueblo buying up properties left , right and centre , i had mentioned to vicente in passing that i disliked graffiti with a vengeance , and lo and behold the very next morning i looked in my diary , which now resided centre stage on my huge brand new antique desk and found that i had my first visitor , 11 00 j.a .
graffiti , and at 10 55 sharp maria showed j.a .
in .
j.a. , or jos antonio to his friends i would hate to be his enemy , his surnames were absolutely unpronounceable had the sort of face that you took one look at and instantly knew that you could safely store your butter in his mouth , knowing that it wouldnt melt .
in a solicitor this was a very good thing .
he was vicentes associate and he could , metaphorically speaking , rip someones throat out at the drop of a hat and then they would thank him very much for doing so .
he also had a vehement dislike of graffiti artists as his mothers apartment overlooked a large multi coloured wall , so vicente had let him loose with my gripe .
he realised that it would take years for a national campaign to bear any fruit so he was more than happy to start small , in san miguel , as a sort of practice run .
hed had quiet meetings with the mayor , politicians , police , and local businessmen they all liked him very much and of course didnt mind one little bit when he asked them for this small favour , or that small favour .
they really didnt have a clue what they were letting themselves in for .
jos antonio had quietly cajoled the politicians into tweaking a couple of existing local bye laws , and slightly amend another one after all they were not all that important , and he was now in a position to spring his trap but he needed some help from me and my money to do so .
although they didnt realise it , the politicians had made it an offence for anyone within the bounds of san miguel to display graffiti in any form , even if they didnt paint it on themselves .
no matter where these artists did their handiwork , someone , somewhere owned that surface , and now the owner had a legal obligation to remove it .
the police local were already willing to prosecute the artists for vandalism but unfortunately it was a very difficult and time consuming job , and now on top of all that they would have to find out who owned the surface , and then give its owner thirty days to remove it .
if the owner failed to remove it then the ayuntamiento local council had to , within another thirty days , and then send the bill to the owner , and this is where i came in responsible people were usually strongly against this type of vandalism , until it hit them in their pockets , whether it was directly , as the owner of a shop or property occupied or empty , or indirectly when it came to paying their slightly increased taxes , so to make the pill easier to swallow vicente had suggested to j.a .
that perhaps i might be persuaded to provide funds to take some of the sting out of it initially .
the ayuntamiento would have to employ a small specialist team to remove the graffiti and to contact the owners , so for the first year perhaps i could sponsor it .
i would in effect be cleaning up the pueblo , once , but after that the residents would be on their own .
it would make people realise that these artists were criminals not cult heros .
i thought that it was a great idea , and was well up to providing the funding , but how to spring the trap ?
the next day i was due to give a speech in the pueblo , perhaps we might be able to use that occasion to our own ends .
one of the first things that i had done for san miguel when i arrived was to fund a large extension of the centro de salud health centre , and provide some much needed modern equipment to go in it .
sheila would have liked that , so it was going to be named after her and i doubted that she would object to me slipping the graffiti bit in along the way .
jos antonio and i thought long and hard about how to do this , but in the end it was a total waste of time , the residents of san miguel loved the idea .
i think they would have even paid the first years bill themselves , and the mayor wasnt the slightest bit miffed that we had gone behind his back he would claim the scheme as his own and rake in the votes come election time .
at the end of the ceremony jos antonio was even signing autographs .
as a yorkshire friend of mine used to say , theres nowt as queer as folk , and one of the first customers to use the new medical wing was a young man , he was naked and covered from head to toe in spray paint and indelible marker i think that the message had well and truly gone out .
chapter 26 my next big adventure came three weeks later when carol , sorry captain carter took me to dubai for its international boat show apparently i needed a tender .
my ankle was still tender , would that do ?
apparently not , so we arrived in dubai amid a blaze of sunshine and wall to wall luxury , and found that the boats came in every conceivable shape and size in and out of the water .
it had been bad enough trying to climb out of my bed that morning i should really have had a sherpa guide , and now i was expected to navigate the show , but all was not lost carol of course had a short list .
we toured the stands and embarked and disembarked on untold craft of various shapes and sizes but nothing seemed to rock my boat , until over lunch in the vip tent i read my palm .
it wasnt exactly my palm , it was the publicity blurb on a palm marine boat , a palm sports 540 , not the largest boat in the show by a long chalk , but it seemed to hit a spot , so off we went to find the relevant stand , which was the easy part , the hard part was actually getting to speak to a sales person .
they all eyed me up and down suspiciously , noting , i suppose , that i was fairly respectably dressed , but only had an entourage of eight upgraded security post bertha , but finally one of them deemed me worthy of a few moments of her time .
i am looking for a tender i said .
that wiped the artificial smile off her face , those types of boats are on the other side of the showground she retorted .
i was thinking more on the lines of that one i said , nodding at the 540 .
that got the smile back , how large is your yacht ?
she asked in amazement .
oh about 152 metres , give or take .
after that i had a new friend for life , well at least until the sales were completed .
fortunately for her i didnt just buy a sport 540 , by the end of the day in the bag with it went a palm islander 600 , all sixty three feet 19.3 metres of european styling apparently , that could do over thirty knots .
it would be ideal for those shorter trips when it just couldnt be bothered to get the lady s out .
a palm islander 420 also went in , forty two feet 13.4 metres of sophisticated luxury i must stop reading all those brochures , but that could only do twenty nine knots i suppose it would be ok for pottering about in perhaps for a quick ish trip to a local beach , and i wouldnt even worry too much if the family used it occasionally .
the next day into the now rather crowded bag went two work boats for use around the marina , runabouts that i wouldnt mind too much if they got splattered with the odd paint spot or two .
two ribs inflatables with rigid hulls and two huge outboard engines on their sterns went in the side pockets , great boats for tearing around the mediterranean at fantastic speeds in , or more importantly to act as safety boats whilst my family and friends were learning to sail in the dinghies .
what dinghies ?
i hear you ask .
half a dozen ian proctor wayfarer dinghies went into their own bag one can not mix motor with sail now can one , in my youth i had been taught to sail in one of these , so why shouldnt the rest of my family suffer now , along with a dufour eleven metre 365 sailing yacht , for either when the price of fuel went up , or more importantly , when i wanted to serenely commune with nature .
the price tag for this marina load of boats ? , dont even go there mind you i did collect a container load of freebies , and carol was a very happy little bunny , she now had lots of new toys to play with after me of course , and bob could now start earning his pay .
one of carols first acquisitions on joining me was bob stokoe he had been the bosun on the sea sprite until he had retired eighteen months ago to go and spend some quality time with his family , at his wifes repeated request , and carol knew from what area he hailed from , so it only took her a few minutes to find his phone number and give him a ring .
at her first attempt she got his wife , who wasnt best pleased at hearing from one of bobs former colleagues , especially a female one it could only mean trouble ?
she had hated him being away for long periods of time although since his return she had changed her mind on that subject , although she had enjoyed the money , so perhaps this wasnt trouble , so she told carol to ring back after six and hung up .
carol rang back after six and bob didnt seem like his old self at all his voice sounded sort of flat as he answered the phone , although it did pick up an octave when she identified herself , and so she quickly came to the point .
would you be interested in a position in spain pottering about with boats ?
she then got his recent life history , in graphic detail .
apparently after he had left the borne line he went to work for a local ship yard doing repairs on private yachts , until the yard went bust .
he then got a job selling maritime insurance , until that company also went bust , and now he was a bloody traffic warden , what the frigging hell do you think my answer will be ?
twenty minutes later his wife came onto the phone , apologised most profusely for her previous telephone manner and then went to pack bobs overnight bag , he was going off for an interview , but fortunately he was on a short list of one .
bob the bosun only had a small wooden hut as an office at the moment , but he didnt mind that one little bit , he was looking out of the window at his new offices and workshops that were being constructed to his own specifications as he watched , but he was dragged from his daydreams he didnt have a lot to do as he was the bosun of a boatless marina by his new all singing , all dancing mobile telephone .
the caller i.d .
informed him that it was his new boss calling , good afternoon maam , bosun speaking , how can i help ?
bad news bosun she said , and his stomach churned , at least the insurance job had lasted almost six months , and then captain carter continued , you will now have to work for a living .
a dozen boats of varying sizes will be arriving within the next month or so , and how are the pontoons coming along ?
earlier that morning he had just finished testing the lights , water and electricity supplies on the new pontoons on behalf of mr michaels .
apart from a few fancy fenders that needed splicing on , they were all complete .
cooking on gas maam , they are all hot to trot , he liked his metaphors .
i presume that means that they are ready for use ?
carol chuckled he was way too long in the tooth to try and change .
the pontoons were indeed ready , as was the slipway .
the renovations to the sea wall and jetty were also complete , along with their associated security systems , and the new jetty for the lady s mr michaels had gone ahead with the purchase was well under way , as was his workshops , offices and the boat house , and as he hung up he had a thought , with all these boats captain carter would soon have to be made a commodore .
chapter 27 when i returned to el campo from dubai , for the first time it really felt as though i was returning home , and it was a nice feeling .
i was even getting a little used to all the attention being heaped on me , and as i had just bought all those boats , i was eagerly looking forward to learning to fly ! ! ! ! !
one afternoon , just prior to my dubai visit , after a lazy picnic lunch on the hill overlooking the marina i enjoyed work , i could watch it all day long david had a proposition that he hoped wouldnt upset me too much .
there were two perfectly good aircraft in a hangar , georges tiger moth and harvard , and both were in excellent condition i had inherited them along with the airfield , so he wondered if i would let him get them made airworthy so that he could get back into flying again .
rubbish i said , i will pay , and then you can teach me to fly , so david went off to england for a week to do some refresher training and returned just in time to take the tiger moth up for its post storage test flight .
whilst he had been away a team of mechanics had come in and checked both aircraft over .
they were fine , and after the inspectors had carried out their checks both aircraft were given a clean bill of health certificates of airworthiness .
the next day we were departing for dubai , so after the obligatory test flight i went up with david for a quick jolly his name for a pleasure trip , but i wanted more , a lot more .
david explained that he could take me up for jollies whenever i felt like one , but unfortunately he couldnt teach me to fly , but he knew a man that could .
group captain edward teddy heslop retired was a certified chief flying instructor hed had a hand in teaching both royal children to fly and he and his wife had moved to spain on his retirement from the royal air force , but were both now getting just a tad bored with all the sun , sand and sangria they had given the other s up a long time ago , and david had met him the night before , following his return from england .
he was having a quiet night out with caroline at a local restaurant and they had got talking to the people on the next table , one thing led to another and an idea was born , telephone numbers were exchanged , and the next day david was ringing him back .
although teddy would willingly have taught me for free i insisted on paying him , even if it was only in kind , how about flying hours in the harvard ?
i suggested , but as he quickly started to spend more and more time at the airfield that idea went straight out of the window , there just werent enough flying hours left in a day , and so he quickly became my cfi chief flying instructor .
within a week of my return from dubai he was teaching seven of my staff plus me to fly and the poor old tiggy moth would soon be starting to wilt at its seams .
i would have to get something more suitable post haste , perhaps a cessna skyhawk or two , and life soon became one long round of fun and frolics .
if i wasnt learning to fly , boating , visiting the lady s , or total strangers for what usually turned out to be a quiet weekend for two ugh , i was improving my swing with paul .
phase iv was progressing well , and i was convinced that it definitely must be coming flat packed , as every time i went aloft with teddy it seemed to have progressed another leap or bound , and the architect was convinced that i was checking up on him .
i was , but only so that paul and i could test drive the next hole to be finished , and neither of us could wait for the course to be finally complete , especially as i had made a decision very early on in the process that the eighth hole ninth tee would be on the island , and there would be no bridge to it , we would have to use special boats to get to and from it .
carol more boats please .
one of my first true house guests turned out to be the colonel , and he sort of invited himself , but it was still nice to see him and meet his lady wife again .
after an outdoor hog roast sorry no vegetarian equivalent , several cold san migs and a very good large brandy he presented me with a beautifully embossed invitation to an anniversary banquet at the guildhall in london at the beginning of october the only condition was that i had to bring david and charlie along with me .
this intrigued me so i asked him what the anniversary was in aid of , so he told me .
the lady s was coming along fine and i was collecting an awful lot of frequent flyer air miles commuting back and forth to germany , but i realised early on that the shipyard might be great at building warships and commercial vessels to an exceptionally standard , but unfortunately in a luxury yacht some of the finished standards were expected to be even higher , so the yard arranged for an english company from gosport , which specialised in building luxury yachts , to set up a temporary site in the yards fitting out shed , to fit out the posh bits .
because of her chequered past , below decks were all but complete way before the lady s was floated out .
the only really major heavy work was the construction of the new superstructure , and so once the plans were finalised it flew or should that be sailed along , and early autumn found me watching the floating out ceremony and it came a close second to watching paint dry as it was an awfully large dock to fill with water , but as she was towed over to the fitting out jetty i started to have an inkling of just how carol must be feeling , and with luck she should be able to bring her home to me just before easter , but the lady s wasnt the only boat that i had to play with i now had a marina full of them .
the marina would be finished well before lady s came home to roost , although one thing that i had well and truly thrown my teddy out of the pram over was the boat house , it wasnt finished , and my newly restored riva aquarama was getting wet .
not only her beautifully smooth and shiny bottom that was floating in the water , but the twenty odd coats of marine varnish on her top , it was raining .
i had spent a wonderful day at hurley , on the river thames looking over my new aquarama .
it was having the finishing touches done to a minor repair , and a colour change for its blue leather upholstery my eyes are green , it would clash , and i enjoyed wandering around watching their craftsmen lovingly restoring and or constructing a host of other beautiful boats , no enough is enough .
my aquarama was second hand or is it now pre loved it had to be , they had stopped building them in 1972 but it had just undergone a lovingly restored .
the previous owner had dinked it slightly on its first outing after the restoration and had promptly had a minor heart attack , his wife then insisted on him putting it up for sale before he could do any more damage to it , and kill himself off completely .
i hope that it wasnt an omen ! ! ! !
virtually from the day that each of my new boats arrived i had to join a queue to take them out .
carol was busy recruiting a permanent crew for the lady s , but had realised early on that she only really needed a glorified harbour crew after all i wasnt going to be spending months at a time at sea , so at my first monthly a team meeting of all the departmental heads after moving into my new home , we discussed this problem .
as carol pointed out , a full crew on board the lady s at all times would probably send them all stir crazy , most of the time they would have absolutely nothing to do , so what she suggested was that the crew would effectively be split into three .
the service part of the crew , that would solely be looking after me and my guests catering , waiting , cleaning etc when i was embarked , would come from volunteers from my existing service staff .
if that turned out to be a problem them perhaps we might look into revising their contracts , but i doubted that that would be necessary , those that embarked would be receiving a daily sea going bonus .
the small permanent ships crew would be recruited by carol , but when the lady s was alongside at el campo they would come under the day to day supervision of the bosun , not only looking after the lady s but operating and tending all my other boats as well , but to enable the lady s to function safely at sea 24 7 , extra seamen and women would be purloined from the other departments around el campo , staff that wouldnt normally be going to sea security , ground staff etc .
they would receive additional training , and again receive a sea going bonus .
david saw where this was leading to and forcefully pointed out that he was already providing volunteer fire fighters , any more volunteers and it would reduce the effectiveness of his teams , so to overcome this problem i agreed that he could start recruiting and training more staff to cover any shortfalls .
i wonder if the colonels corporals were still available , and carol and the bosun would devise a course for those that wished to become part time sailors .
rule one they must all be able to jump into the staff swimming pool from its diving board with overalls on , and then swim two lengths of the pool without touching the sides .
splash , ive never seen so many fully clothed people in a swimming pool before .
rule two every volunteer would earn their seagoing rank , just because a sergeant may volunteer , it wont follow that he would automatically become a petty officer .
rule three when embarked on the lady s they will wear the same uniform as the permanent crew , caroline , get your cotton out .
as intended the islander 600 was the perfect training boat , and carol or the bosun would regularly take her out to put everyone through their paces , and as time progressed , and more and more of my staff became nautically proficient , i started to enjoy visiting the local marinas and yacht clubs in her , if you have a smart and efficient crew why not show them off .
every trainee , when he she had passed the initial training stage was flown up to germany to acquaint them with the lady s in person , but if they thought it was going to be a holiday , think again , captain carter was turning into a very hard taskmistress .
chapter 28 on the evening of the first of october i found myself standing in the reception area of the dorchester hotel , all dressed up in my finery , along with david , charlie , maria as my arm candy , caroline and agnetha she and charlie were now an item and surrounded by a group of the colonels finest , as it was david and charlies night off .
david and charlie were resplendent in their d.j.s , complete with rows of eye catching miniature medals on their chests , and we were all patiently waiting for the colonel , and of course he walked in dead on the designated hour , with his long suffering wife on his arm .
it was handshakes and or kisses all round and then time we were off .
the colonel was in charge tonight .
as we exited the main entrance we were greeted by the sight of what must have been the largest hummer based on the us armies humvee in the world , it was the stretchiest limo i have ever seen , and it was surrounded by a group of bikers .
not your ordinary hells angels type of biker , more your top of the range royal corps of signals white helmets motor cycle display team type of biker , resplendent in their finest livery .
as we clambered into the vehicle the colonel directed us all too where we should sit , if i had been in charge of that operation i would have needed an a z of the vehicle , and a road stewardess poured us all a drink .
once the colonels boys were aboard more conventional range rovers we buckled up and were off , and the white helmets must have been going our way because they followed us in front , at the sides and behind , along with some friendly police motorcyclists that also just happened to be passing all the way to the guildhall , it was really very convenient , especially when we were going around piccadilly circus .
at the end of the noisy drive everyone seemed to be wanting to try out their sirens the driver got a trifle disorientated , he followed the motorcycles into an area not normally used by motor vehicles , although it was very convenient for us as we came to a halt quite close to the main entrance .
we could have got even closer if it hadnt been for a group of soldiers standing about , in two straight lines .
as a lowly civilian it looked to me like there must be a representative from every regiment and unit in the british army , but i may have been mistaken , and then the door next to david opened and the colonel indicated to him to exit first , most inappropriate but the colonel must know best .
a sergeant with a black eye was holding the door open for him , and he was saluting , not for me paddy , i was only a lowly warrant officer , not worthy of a salute .
ollocks came the reply , and he remained saluting .
david had realised early on in the journey that something was up then as he stood there with the long lines of the honour guard in front of him the penny finally dropped .
he had been wondering what the anniversary banquet was in aid of , but every time he asked me i had given him a vague answer , now he knew .
it was the second anniversary of his incident in afghanistan , so david , with caroline proudly on his arm and the rest of us traipsing along behind acknowledged each representative as he walked stiff backed between the lines .
as we arrived at the main entrance david the rest of us were totally ignored was greeted by the colonel of 22 regiment sas colonel jameson , who gave him a ground shaking salute about a 8.5 on the richter scale , and then escorted him through the foyer into the glass ambulatory to where a line of officers and men were waiting to greet him .
he knew some of them , but not all .
the first one in the line up was surgeon commander now captain beatty rn from rnas culdrose , who came to attention , shook his hand and whispered you deserve a lot more than tonight .
tonight ? ? ?
then it was on to the next one .
the rest of the tri service line up were the other two members of his team from afghanistan , the royal air force crews from the chinook and tornado aircraft , and the army air corp crews of the apache helicopters .
a few familiar faces were there from the supporting cast of that memorable day , followed right at the very end of the line by a sheepish captain gerald fitzpatrick complete with an oversized symbolic plaster on his chin he had obviously learnt his lesson .
captain fitzpatrick quickly whispered that the only time that the incident had ever been mentioned had been in the office before he had been sent cap in hand back to england , and all that they had said at credenhill was that they understood that he had blotted his copybook big time , and wondered where they were going to send him to carry out his penance .
he had no idea how the generals had found out , mind you the second in command of that afghanistan detachment was very conspicuous by his absence that evening .
as he was steered towards the great hall the huge doors were opened by two more sergeants , one with another black eye and the other with a fat lip .
apparently the regimental sergeant major had let the sergeants mess choose who would have the honour of opening the doors for david , there was a long list of volunteers , but it was whittled down to just the three of them in the boxing ring , and as he entered the eight hundred year old medieval banqueting hall all conversation stopped instantly , and virtually everyone leapt to their feet and stood to attention .
as colonel jameson steered david towards the top table , through wall to wall gold braid , most of the top table remained seated , they hadnt a clue what was going on , they thought that this was just another very expensive free dinner , and hadnt twigged on that they just happened to be the ones that had been involved in the decision to retire david most , but not all .
a very senior royal and his two sons rose to their feet and came around to the front of the table , much to the puzzlement of the rest of the tables occupants and came to a halt in front of david , and came to attention , the father in his royal navy uniform perhaps not quite as smartly as his sons in their army and royal air force ones , but he made up for it in gold braid , and david stood open mouthed as colonel jameson introduced him to the royal party , your royal highness sir , may i have the honour of introducing warrant officer first class retired in a low voice david brian williams , distinguished conduct medal and bar to you .
we really will have to stop meeting like this warrant officer the most senior of them said , but that aside it really is an honour to meet you again .
after introducing david to his sons we , that open mouthed gaggle following on behind , were also introduced to their royal highnesses , the senior one commenting to me that apparently you have a rather nice house out in spain mr michaels , i would consider it an honour to be invited to look around it sometime , then came the main event of the evening , the presentation , and as we stood to one side his royal highness presented david with a beautiful half sized silver replica of his trusty bmg mcmillan snipers rifle .
apparently every unit has contributed towards this dont forget me i thought , and then , as the rsm struggled without flinching a muscle to hold it out , he continued , please note your miniatures medals along the front of the plinth and indicating the centre one , the only one that david didnt recognise , he continued in a louder voice , especially this one .
it was a beautifully hand painted miniature of queen victoria , mounted on a very fine filigree maltese cross .
you now have your very own victoria cross , and i hope that mummy will not miss the painting .
the five generals still seated at the top table , upon hearing the royals comments knew that their military careers all hung in the balance and stood up , two of them quickly going over to congratulate david after all , history would show they hoped that all they had done was rubber stamp the decision , and the other three quietly slipped away , no doubt pondering what debilitating diseases that they could contract that would end their military careers , after all they all had an absolute penchant for medical discharges .
before everyone sat down i had a quick word with david , this was a military occasion , not for mere civilians , so i explained that i would make my excuses and take maria out for a slap up meal as compensation .
caroline overheard my comments and asked if she could tag along , she didnt want to cramp her husbands style on his special night , after all she could watch the video anytime , although agnetha opted to remain it was her ambition to drink charlie under the table and these tables looked pretty fancy to her , and so as i slipped away , a beautiful woman on each arm , and the colonels finest reluctantly tagging along behind , i watched the royal marines band preparing to perform among other things their world famous sunset routine for the honoured guest .
the marines obviously hadnt forgotten south georgia all those years ago either .
i hope david wasnt going to expect this kind of treatment every time we went out it was going to cost me a small fortune to placate these two women .
chapter 29 on returning to the sanity of el campo i concentrated more and more on my flying lessons , and after twenty two hours dual i went solo .
my first trip by myself was no problem , i was so busy that i didnt have time to notice the empty seat beside me , but on my second one i did , and i nearly had to change my trousers after the flight .
my first passenger turned out to be clyde bonnie didnt like the noise one little bit and so always gave aircraft a wide berth , it was to be my sixth solo flight and i was starting to feel really confident cocky so when i climbed into the cessna and found clyde curled up on the co pilots seat i started the engine and expected him to scarper .
when he gave no indication that he wanted to vacate the aircraft , i decided to let him come along for the ride , and although i wasnt allowed to take up human passengers yet , i didnt think canine ones counted , so i gave chalky a quick call on the radio and he got someone to go and retrieved one of the dog harnesses from the back of my very own 4x4 , and somehow we managed to clip clyde safely in .
from then on he became my confidant in the air he let me talk through all sorts of problems with him , and never once telling teddy .
with almost sixty hours in the air and an awful lot more in the hangar and classroom i paid a flying visit to the uk , and came back clutching my private pilots licence , although unfortunately i wasnt finished with either the classroom or teddy just yet , my aim was to eventually fly my own gulfstream g450 , it would take time , but one thing that i certainly had a lot of now was time !
paul left my employ when the marina was completed , as i had sorted out the trust fund details by then .
indirectly he became a very wealthy man he had the use of several hundred million euros , give or take , although he couldnt spend a cent of it .
what he had to do was invest it with the help of a lot of very wise people and use the profits that were generated to aid green projects .
my carbon footprint quickly disappeared as i became the proud owner of new forests in kenya , guatemala and el salvador , and untold new trees in the uk .
there was even talk of naming a wind turbine farm after me in scotland .
at least the eco warriors wont be after my blood now , and eddie , now a happily divorced man would continue supervising phase iv , although it will now be in his new capacity as estate manager , with a seat at the a team table .
by the middle of december i was able to fly maria , david and most of my senior staff to germany in my brand new twin engine beechcraft king air 350 .
apparently i had to get to the gulfstream in stages and this twin turbo prop aircraft was stage three , thankfully there will only be one more stage to go as the g450 was already on order , although teddy was sat in the seat beside me as i still hadnt quite got all the requisite licences yet to haul passengers around in it , but i was getting there , i can now see what george had seen in this flying malarkey , it is certainly exhilarating , but why were we all going to germany in the freezing cold ?
we were all going for a boat trip .
the lady s was off to sea for the first time although a lot of her luxury bits and bobs were still to be fitted , but the dockyard reckoned that she wouldnt sink if they took her out into deep water .
it was going to be more of a jolly for us , as the dockyard personnel would be putting her through her paces , but i wouldnt miss it for the world and carol would just have to sit on her hands .
all of lady ss systems that could be , had been thoroughly tested while she was tied up alongside the jetty , but there were certain things that just can not be simulated alongside she needed to be put through her paces in the wide open spaces of the north sea .
the dockyard mateys had prepared her well , so as soon as we were all on board the lady s edged her bow away from the jetty , and then it was slow ahead both and she worked beautifully .
that first trip out was purely to make sure that all the systems were operating correctly the stabilisers and the horn were my favourites .
my special horn was an optional extra i just had to have one fitted .
as a child i had loved that bit in the movie the guns of navarone where the destroyers had come charging in at the last moment with their horns a whoop , whoop , whooping the stuff that childhood dreams are made of , but unfortunately the lady s had gas turbine engines , not steam boilers , but somehow the wiz kids had created a very passable imitation of the real thing , complete with steam , and i quickly found out why they couldnt test it whilst alongside it was absolutely deafening .
contractors working parties were also on board for the first trip , busily checking over and calibrating their particular bits of equipment , but as virtually all the technology and systems in the lady s were of a proven design , most of gear worked as advertised first time , but as winter had well and truly set in in the north sea , my personal favourite place on that first trip turned out to be the observation lounge , especially when the stabilisers were switched off and youve guessed it the windscreen wipers worked perfectly as well .
i would just have to save the flag pole for better weather .
all the sea trials proceeded exceptionally well and so very soon some of my own crew were partaking in the trips then eventually the big day arrived , caroline took her out for the first time with only my own crew on board , not a dockyard matey in sight .
i let her have that special day to herself she had well and truly earned it , and i was also sure that she didnt want the extra bother of having me getting under her feet , then just before easter i handed over the cheque to herr flik and new cars to donald and marta , and the keys were all mine .
of course it wasnt quite as simple as that they had to have a grand ceremony first , and there was quite a sizable crowd on the jetty to wave us off , some of them even having a tear in their eye , but they neednt have worried , im sure that in the paperwork somewhere it said that the guarantee was only valid if i took her back for her ten thousand nautical mile service , and as spring slowly sprung carol took the lady s out at every possible opportunity , working up the crew and ironing out any niggly little problems , although they usually turned out to be finger trouble on the part of the crew .
the lady s was jammed packed full of high tec gadgetry so as a temporary measure carol hired a computer geek to go through all the systems and train the crew up as necessary .
he turned out to have a natural flair for turning computer gobbledy gook into understandable language , and he also got on extremely well with carol , which was very fortunate as his name was scott carter her son , he was now a freelance i.t .
specialist , but there was nothing free about his fee .
as often as i could i would go along for a jolly , to exercise my sea legs and finally to get myself acquainted with my collapsible flag pole helicopters dont seem to like having to fly around it when they are trying to land , although sometimes i would deliberately be left behind , plausible deniability david called it .
although i didnt know it , that empty space in the stern was no longer empty the lady s now had a sting in her tail , and when carol was finally satisfied with my new toy and its crew , i decided that what was needed was a shake down cruise , to see if she was really worth all those euros , so our first voyage of discovery would be to dubai i had enjoyed my few days there , but i wanted to see more than just a boat show and my hotel room .
then we would be a quick trip back home , the pretty way via cape town .
carol estimated that the whole trip should take about six weeks , but that would depend on how much rubber necking there was to do on the way , and almost all of mine and sheilas families wanted to go on the first test drive so from the start the trip had all the makings of a repeat performance of that dreadful christmas but none of them had yet met my secret weapon lady hyacinth .
she was going to be the referee , and from day one it seemed to work .
i left el campo in the capable hands of eddie and mrs blake , but took her husband nigel , along with marcel , bob the bosun and a fair amount of volunteers off for my first adventure , although some willing volunteers had to remain behind to do the boring bits like looking after el campo , although a change over was planned in cape town to give everyone a fair crack of the whip .
first off we scooted up the mediterranean to malta .
two nights in valletta grand harbour and then we headed for the suez canal , now that was serious sightseeing .
carol timed our arrival to perfection , breakfast slipping past port said and lunch passing suez .
neither of us had ever done the suez canal before but fortunately the pilot had , mega times , so we didnt get lost , and once we were in the gulf of suez it was time for some serious sun worshipping and swimming , you really couldnt tell that a five inch quick fire gun was supposed to have gone into the hole it looked just like a regular swimming pool to me .
the next morning we woke up in the red sea , metaphorically speaking , this was the life , and everyone was settling down to enjoy the trip , even lady hyacinth was happy with my staff , praise indeed , and all went well until we entered the gulf of aden .
the next morning i awoke to find some made to measure canvas bags covering some very strange looking objects on the bridge wings , and at various other locations around my beautiful ship , and there was an even larger bag covering something forward of the pool bob the bosun had obviously been very busy before we had left el campo .
apparently during the night a pirate warning had gone out , not blackbeard with his cutlass and jolly roger , but somali pirates armed with ak47s and rpgs .
they were using high speed launches to come alongside ships , board them , and then either empty the ships safe or hold the vessel and its crew for ransom .
things had been quiet for the past few months but now it would seem that they were back with a vengeance , but fortunately carol and david had been training the crew for such an eventuality , on their plausible deniability trips .
so much for plausible deniability , that hadnt lasted very long , and now the cat was well and truly out of the bag , or rather their new canvas bags , if you can call browning .50 calibre m2 heavy machine guns cats .
fortunately most of the volunteer sailors were davids security officers , and overnight they had switched from being very smart sailors , back into a well trained militia force .
they were not only all now dressed in their patrol blacks , but they also had on kevlar helmets and flak jackets , with a steyr aug assault rifle slung over their shoulder they certainly dont wear them at el campo ! ! !
, and the two sergeants that were on board , masquerading as sailors , now that the guns were out , were back to being sergeants , but where had all this hardware come from ?
plausible deniability .
if i had ever been asked if there were any guns on board i wouldnt have been knowingly lying when i said no .
methinks that carol and david had not been telling me the truth , the whole truth and nothing but the truth , thank goodness ! ! !
the guests all thought this was great fun , something a bit o.t.t .
that had been laid on especially for their entertainment , and i let the rather nave ones among them continue to think that , but that all changed at 14 32 local mayday , mayday , mayday , this is fair weather sailor calling .
we are being harassed by pirates and fear that we are about to be boarded .
we are in the company of three other yachts and our position is.. a group of yachts had assumed that there was safety in numbers and against all advice had decided to sail out of the red sea and into the gulf of aden to take some photographs of somalia ? .
what plonkers !
the task force commander of combined task force 150 answered the mayday , but unfortunately his nearest warship was three hours away , and even worse its helicopter was unserviceable .
ctf 150 is a multinational task force that was formed to escort high value ships safely through the area , as well as carrying out anti piracy operations , but unfortunately for the fair weather sailor the force was spread very thin .
the skipper of the yacht was not happy , they were keeping the pirates at bay with their flares , fire extinguishers and beer bottles , but they were running out of beer very quickly , so carol , david and i went into my sea cabin and it took us less than a minute to come to a decision , if four yachts could hold the pirate vessel at bay , then it should be no problem for us , and carol was hotfoot onto the radio task force leader this is m.y .
lady s , we are in a position to offer assistance to the fair weather sailor and will be with them in less than two zero minutes over .
motor yacht lady s , this is task force leader , do not , i repeat do not attempt a rescue , the pirates are armed and dangerous over .
task force leader , so are we out .
carol can be very forceful when she wants to be , so the pedal was firmly pushed to the metal and we took off like a racing greyhound .
metal screens were lowered over the accommodation windows , all passengers were herded below into the crew area out of harms and our way and charlie was sent off up into the bow , with a headset on under his helmet .
i thought i looked rather fetching in my matching blue kevlar helmet and flak jacket rambo eat your heart out .
we were about three minutes away from the yachts when the skipper of the fair weather sailor screamed over the radio that there was a large dhow bearing down on them loaded to the gunwales with gun toting pirates , at least he knew his nautical terminology , although using our radar it had become obvious to us that the high speed launch was not a novice he was just the sheep dog , herding the yachts into a bay so that the shepherd could then come in for the coup de grce .
we had already seen the dhow approaching them on our radar and were making appropriate preparations to deal with it , even as he was screaming into his microphone .
we were approaching the confrontation from behind a spur of land which jutted out into sea it perfectly masked our approach from all and sundry .
charlie , prepare to engage david said quietly into his microphone .
roger came the reply funny , i thought davids middle name was brian and out of the large canvas bag came a swedish bill2 anti tank guided weapon doesnt everyone have one of these handy , just in case of a situation like this ?
, and as we cleared the headland there was the dhow two thousand metres ahead of us perfect !
ready came charlies calm voice over the loudspeaker .
i gave david the nod and he quietly said engage .
a trail of smoke streaked off into the distance , but as it closed on the vessel the missile looked as though it was going too high , wrong , it was performing perfectly .
it was designed to deliberately overfly its intended target and then detonate its warheads above it , striking downwards at a tanks thinnest armour , on its top or in this case an un armoured dhow , that only had stacked sand bags along the edges of its decks for protection .
these conveniently helped to channel the missiles explosives downwards , and then the dhow was no more , and as the lady s continued charging in , tracer rounds from several heavy machine guns converged on the luckless launch , ripping it to shreds as well , and then unthinkingly i reached above my head and grabbed the cord of my optional extra and yanked hard on it .
whoop , whoop , whoop and it was all captured in glorious colour , although i didnt realise it at the time .
as we slowed and started to circle the yachts the crews were very happy to see us , and after carol confirmed with them that no one was injured she was on the radio again task force leader this is warship lady s , mission accomplished , no casualties on our side , do we qualify for a ctf 150 sticker now ?
quickly we rounded up the miscreant chicks and set off to meet up with the pakistani frigate , the one with the poorly budgie , in an arrowhead formation , with the lady s slowly bringing up the rear , and as we slowly wend our way along the coast , twice piratical gentlemen thieving gits of the local area tried to borrow one of them .
the first one came to the conclusion very quickly that it was better to be a live coward rather than a dead hero , and the second one erupted in a cloud of smoke and flames budgie was better .
with the pakistani helicopter circling over our heads we finally met up with its mother ship and she reluctantly took over the task of seeing the yachts back into the safety of the red sea , but as we were about to depart , the skipper of the fair weather sailor , who had been very quiet up until now , asked us if we could spare a few bottles of beer , they had run out .
carol quickly went over to the signal flag locker and selected two flags , and one of the crew , grinning from ear to ear , then clipped them on to a signal halyard and hauled them aloft , the flags ?
foxtrot and oscar of course , carol was much too much of a lady to say it out loud .
the next day , around lunch time , i had my first flying visit of the trip , in the shape of a very large royal navy helicopter .
several of carols many work up exercises for the crew had involved embarking helicopters when underway so the flight deck crew , under chalky i knew that i had agreed to let him come along for some obscure reason performed to perfection , and the merlin gently set down slap bang on its spot , and after chalkys crew had gone in and chocked and lashed the merlin firmly to the deck the commodore in charge of ctf 150 exited .
it was the turn of the royal navy to be task force leader so commodore hank williams rn had the mantle at the moment .
carol met him and his little band on the flight deck and escorted them through the rear of the hangar and into my world .
he was open mouthed at the scrumptiousness of it all he was definitely in the wrong navy .
after introductions all round and a quick snifter i was getting the hang of this yard arm time he had the quick cooks tour of lady s , ending up on the bridge .
he gave a little speech to the assembled throng , complimenting everyone on their selfless act and then presented me with a plaque .
it had the ctf 150 crest mounted on it with a shiny brass plate below it , and etched into it was lady s for conspicuous bravery somalia , and yesterdays date .
the buffer on his ship had obviously been very busy throughout the night .
he shook hands and presented each of the leading participants of the altercation with an embroidered ctf 150 patch and left a large box of goodies for everyone else then made his excuses and left , but not before first passing on his senior pilots compliments about the professionalism of my flight deck crew , perhaps i should have the lady s re painted grey ! ! !
as we continued on with our interrupted journey the crew started to become very busy .
earlier , when i had said that all our relatives had wanted to come on lady ss test drive , i wasnt entirely accurate .
what they really wanted was to be in on its first cockers p , my first full blown cocktail party in dubai .
when i had approached lady hyacinth about coming on part , or even the entire shakedown cruise she had readily agreed , and was turning into the consummate lady of the house , without any of the complications , but a week after speaking to her i received a call from clarence house .
funny , i didnt know any clarences , or their houses and then the penny dropped .
it was the very senior royals p.p.s. , i could almost feel his grey suite down the telephone .
he would just like to make me aware of the fact that if i happened to be holding a soire on the evening of the twenty third when the lady s would just happen be alongside in dubai hrh would look favourably on any invitation that might just be in the post , as he was in dubai promoting british business that week and that helped polarised things no end , but as the crew busily slaved away scott came looking for me , and he found me chilling in my sea cabin .
have you been watching sky news ?
he blurted out .
nope , only a chat show on the beeb .
well i think you should change the habit of a lifetime and give it a whirl .
so exerting an enormous amount of energy i pointed the remote at the plasma tv that was tucked away in the corner it was a very large corner , pressed the correct button and jesus h christ ! ! ! !
there was the lady s whooping her way into the bay , shooting up all and sundry .
the banner headline at the bottom of the screen screamed breaking news british billionaire takes on somali pirates single handed .
i hate inaccuracies in the media , im sure that i had someone else on board with me at the time , and for the next few hours carol , david , charlie and i watched the story unfold .
i couldnt quite work out if i was a latter day hero or a billionaire buccaneer , and i dont think that they had worked that bit out yet either , but the holder of what must have been a very expensive camcorder was certainly in line for an award .
first off there were close ups of the two pirate vessels , then , following a shout from behind him , the cameraman smoothly panned round and got the lady s quickly into focus , just as charlie squeezed the trigger .
he then tracked the missile to its destination some of that footage was deliberately obscured , and then swung quickly back to the lady s just in time for the fireworks display from the heavy machine guns .
another smooth pan round disintegrating speed boat more obscuration is that a word ?
then back to the lady s , and there she was , in absolutely perfect filming weather , charging majestically into the bay , horn a whoop , whoop whooping away i liked that bit , j lee thompson director of the guns of navarone eat your heart out .
the final shot in the shortened version was me , still resplendent in my kevlar helmet and flak jacket magnanimously waving down at them , oops !
after the incident , as we were still escorting the yachts back to safety id had the sense to get on the satellite phone to vicente , who then got on his mobile phone he was shopping in carrefour to experts in international and maritime law , and a little while later he got back to me saying that the consensus of opinion of the experts was that there should be no problem with what i had just done the buck stops here , lady s was clearly in sovereign , not international waters and so it would be up to the somali government to take any action against me if they felt that i had something to answer for and at the moment they couldnt even agree on what day of the week it was .
from then on our radio was going nonstop every journalist on the planet wanted an interview or quote , and as the story on the tv grew legs , anyone remotely connected to me , my crew , my friends , or my ship was interviewed .
i thought that herr fliks tea or had she now reverted back to coffee lady gave an exceptionally good one she gave a particularly glowing description of carol .
as the ruler of dubais personal pilot edged lady s alongside his personal jetty i already knew the reason why our docking arrangements had been changed , ever since coming within flying distance of civilisation wed had aircraft circling above us , and the closer we got to land the more boats came out to greet us as well usually packed to the gunwales with reporters and photographers .
security would have been a nightmare on a public jetty so we had been moved to the sheikhs well protected private one .
i had offered to skip dubai altogether if i was going to be the cause of too much bother , but they wouldnt hear of it , i was their new hero , and on the jetty to greet me , apart from half the princes and sheikhs in the known world , and what seemed to me like the remainder of my staff from el campo they obviously had no intentions of missing out on any of the fun was , tucked right at the very back in the shadows , the consultant i was searching for , vicente thought i might need him his speciality , the media , and he was the first to come on board , and was quickly frog marched into my cabin .
call me max had been very busy over the past twenty four hours , and once the introductions were over he took charge , media wise , and within a few hours the media scrum was chaotic , which was a vast improvement over absolute mayhem , and by the next morning cockers p day sanity had finally returned , but it was at a price .
sky news , who had broken the story god bless their little cotton socks would have exclusivity thats a nice word i also like ayuntamiento , thats another nice word , i really am a sad little muppet , but it would cost me my virginity !
he considered me a media virgin , but he reckoned that it would be well worth it , and so an hour later kay and her film crew were shepherded on board and max the media went to work .
he had already selected where the interview would take place on the flying bridge , what the questions were going to be , along with what my answers would be , so why had sky agreed to this ?
because he had offered them a fly on the wall exclusive later on .
when the lady s had done the cape town bit , and gone up the left hand side of africa they would be allowed to embark a film crew at gibraltar .
they could then remain on board , filming away to their hearts content until we finally arrived back at el campo , with several fairly uncensored interviews with carol and i , guaranteed , although max would still retain some editorial control .
sky must have thought that it was worth it because they grabbed at it with both hands , and threw in a cheque book for good measure , they agreed to make a hefty donation to a charity of my choice i was starting to like them , not a lot but a little , and the interview went surprisingly well .
kay first warmed me up with some easy background questions without the cameras rolling max only had to jump down her throat once , and then hey presto , that evening , just before the cockers p got under way i watched myself giving my first television interview , but i wonder how that flak jacket had gotten itself into the background ?
the cocktail party was jammed packed with royalty and a listers , and it was a roaring success , which was a bit of a surprise to me as i had only invited a handful of guests .
apparently in dubai invitations are for lesser beings , and hrh didnt even wait until we got to the flight deck he had a go at me as soon as he stepped off the gangway .
where is my invitation ?
young billy had visited el campo a few weeks earlier with his girlfriend and they had apparently thoroughly enjoyed themselves .
my rule number one had been i dont do the subservient serf bit away from the cameras , and apparently it had gone down very well .
after meeting and greeting carol , lady hyacinth , david hello david , how was your hangover ?
and the rest of my a team and the family , he then went on to congratulate me on my recent escapade , i suppose you will be expecting a banquet at the guildhall next .
we then had a lazy stroll around lady s , and as we walked through the various rooms he kept on favourably comparing them with the late royal yacht britannia .
i was half expecting him to ask if he could borrow her the next time he went off on a state visit .
he did , but he was only joking i think !
after the last of my guests had departed i gathered everyone in the hangar for a well deserved drink , especially the guides who had all evening been patiently shown my visitors every nook and cranny of the ship .
one guide had even overheard a very princely prince wondering if perhaps there was a ticonderoga a class of u.s. navy cruiser hull going spare , to them size is extremely important , and just as i was finishing off a well deserved bacardi and coke with a bacon butty chaser marcel was staring to get a very well rounded repertoire , we heard a cacophony of sirens coming up the jetty , oops , had the islamic fundamentalists got x ray vision and seen through the hangar walls ?
no it was just two of the bosses rolls royce pick up trucks doing deliveries .
in the back of the first one was a bill2 anti tank missile , to replace the one that charlie had used .
they must have found a spare one just laying around , and in the back of the other , surrounded by sikh bodyguards resplendent in their rich uniforms , turbans , flowing beards , rather nasty looking swords , and sub machine guns that sort of spoiled the effect , was a rather large box .
what was in the box ?
an equally large centre piece to go on my lounge table , apparently sheilas favourite lladro piece was not ostentatious enough for a man of my stature .
if ever i got brassic enough to have to start flogging things off , i dont know which would have the higher price tag , lady s or that centre piece .
the next morning , at the crack of mid day i was awoken by a rather large yacht coming alongside , was the jetty getting that crowded ?
nope , it turned out to be the royal re fuelling barge .
they quickly topped the lady s up with four star , and then were off , just like that and not a green shield stamp in sight mind you i suppose you have to pay for your fuel to qualify for them , another sign of their appreciation .
i really was enjoying my stay in dubai .
chapter 30 i left most of my family and visitors behind in dubai , in almost all cases it was for them to join in the media frenzy , and so i decided to take a quiet potter down the coast to mombasa in kenya , for some seriously big game hunting , with a camera !
for stage two of my trip around africa i had alice , she was doing the whole guilt trip with me , the colonel , his wife , lady h and her husband who was the absolute opposite of his wife , very down to earth , and once we were safely out of sight of land i went looking for david , and grabbing him by the scruff of the neck i dragged him kicking and screaming to the stern of the boat , then i woke up and asked him to show me my plausible deniability , it really was a bit late for that little secret .
in the senior rates quarters there was a very large watertight hatch in the deck , with a very small padlock on it .
as padlocks go it was a very nice little padlock , but with a half decent pair of bolt croppers most five year olds would be among the machine guns in no time at all .
he unlocked it , lifted up the counter balanced hatch and lo and behold there it was a ladder .
bravely i descended into the unknown , and ended up in the middle of an empty room , one that i had visited several times during lady ss construction .
perhaps david had thrown all the incriminating evidence overboard !
then i spied two watertight doors at the rear of the open space , ah ha !
eureka !
i shouted as i flung open the first door , and found another empty room , oops better luck next time .
walking across to the other door , which charlie and the colonel had kindly opened for me i peered inside no eureka this time , i had learned my lesson and there it was again , another empty room .
alright i said , what have you done with them ?
nothing , they are still there !
said a smiling david .
unless they all had an invisibility mode switch on them all was not as it would seem .
i played their little game and checked over both rooms very carefully , noting the slope of the lady ss stern at the far end , and i even counted the rows of tiles across the floor of each room .
i then added them together and counted how many tiles were across the larger space , there were exactly the same number , so no hidden compartment between them .
when i finally gave up david went over to one of the formica panels that covered the steel bulkhead wall , which also just happened to be midway between the two doors , and taking a small remote controller out of his pocket , the same type that would open a garage door , aimed it at the panel and pressed the button .
the panel moved backwards slightly and then slide away to one side .
in front of me was a very stout looking armoured door , with a fingerprint key pad to one side .
david placed his thumb on the pad , tapped in a few numbers , and the heavy door swung silently open .
i walked down a narrow ish corridor , about the same length as the two smaller rooms and almost bumped into the stern of the lady s , almost but not quite .
not before i stepped through a fairly large and well stocked toy cupboard .
strapped to the bulkheads were toys of every description , there were pistols , assault rifles , pump action shotguns , even a snipers rifle , the same type that david had used in the army .
there were heavy machine guns , light machine guns , rpgs , and a pile of boxes strapped to the floor , some had bill2 stencilled on the outside , others had fim 92f stencilled on them , the latest version of the american stinger ground to air missile .
the lady s really did have a sting er in her tail .
along the real stern of the lady s was a work bench with every conceivable tool clipped above it , and a row of patrol blacks on hooks , and below them were each individual officers personal equipment , even down to their boots and socks .
as each of the hooks had a number stencilled above it , it obviously meant that every sea going security officer of mine had a number not a name again plausible deniability for them .
i asked david how the floor tile count had worked out to be the same .
the same type and colour of tiles as the larger room , just slightly smaller sizes he chuckled .
another optical illusion , i had obviously not been kept fully in the loop at every stage of lady ss construction thank goodness , but from now on if any inquisitive customs official asked me if the lady s had any weapons on board i would have to give them my version of the answer that royal navy captains give when asked if their ship was carrying nuclear weapons , i can neither confirm nor deny that i have any weapons on board .
if they want my money then they will just have to do a nelson .
as we passed down the coast of somalia i half expected a flotilla of gunboats to come charging out seeking revenge , but there was nothing , not a single one venturing forth , mind you that may have had something to do with the american cruiser that was tagging along with us for the next four days .
the us navy captain took the opportunity to let his helicopters have a spot of deck landing practice on my flight deck , so twice a day a couple of his aircraft would drop a few sailors off they were actually crammed full to the gunwales , if helicopters have gunwales so that they could have a spot of r r .
they could laze around the pool , wander around the lady s , perhaps watch a movie or play the latest video games , have a free lunch or dinner , depending if they were the morning or afternoon shift and a few beers which was a treat as american warships are dry , and then they went back to reality .
on the last evening , just before we ran into mombasa , i laid on a formal dinner for the captain and most of his officers , and of course marcel performed spectacularly , i had to show our american cousins that we could dish up more than just hamburgers and fries !
during those four days i had around four hundred visitors on board the lady s and not one piece of silverware went missing , and neither was one single sailor more than slightly merry on return to his her ship although my new table centrepiece was firmly locked away in the safe , just in case .
the lady s spent ten days alongside in mombasa giving my own crew some well deserved r r whilst my much depleted band of visitors and i flew off for the camera safari , although i left bonnie and clyde behind on board i didnt want them to end up as some lions yorkshire pudding ! !
we spent a week on a land rover safari , enjoying the sights and sounds and sometimes the smells of the wilds , then it was into elsas kopje safari lodge for a few days to get some feeling back into our rather numb nether regions .
once i was reunited with bonnie and clyde and after being well and truly checked over for strange sniffs we were off , but not very far , next stop zanzibar , alice wanted to swim with the dolphins , and what an unforgettable experience that was .
after that we were off on a longer trip , this time down to the atlantic ocean , after first squeezing between madagascar and mozambique , the gap was actually over two hundred nautical miles wide , but it looked awfully narrow on the map .
cape town was definitely on our must visit list , not only because it had a petrol pump large enough to fill up the lady s we had covered just over five thousand nautical miles since leaving dubai but also for the photo opportunities photo of me at the top of table mountain , photo of me beside the cape of good hope lighthouse , photo of me with one foot in the indian ocean and the other in the atlantic ocean , and nearly one of me giving a two fingered salute to some reporters and photographers , dont they ever give up .
after the scheduled crew change although somehow only about a quarter of them actually departed for spain most of my remaining guests also reluctantly departed , leaving just alice and i to make our own weary way back up hill to meet up with paul .
we met him off the coast of the republic of the congo not the larger democratic republic of the congo and were flown by light aircraft up to a gorilla reserve that i was funding .
yet more reporters were there , but fortunately these were of the friendly variety , what they wanted was to find out about my green credentials , which paul was more than happy to fill them in on i nearly said bring them up to speed on , as he knew far more about them than i did .
he even had a glossy hand out for each of them , explaining what i was doing , very eco friendly im sure .
after that he joined us on the lady s for a couple of days of sea time and then it was more p.r .
work is there no rest for the wicked ?
in ghana , and by the time we left there i was feeling very humbled indeed , what i needed was some serious partying to snap me out of it .
alices most favouritest ?
place in the whole wide world was apparently the canarys , not the birds , the islands , and as it just happened to be on our way home she suggested that we give it a whirl , so we whirled , but unfortunately it was for only one night , and then we took off like the proverbial greyhound .
it had nothing to do with the night life , or the fact that my friend from marigot town on st martin was in the first bar that we visited and things then definitely started to warm up , it was the atlantic it was going to get very , very lumpy very , very quickly .
what was brewing was possibly going to turn out to be the worst storm that the atlantic had seen in twenty five years , and ships of all sizes were running for cover , so the next morning carol had a quiet word in my shell like hangover and suggested that we beat a hasty retreat into the shelter of gibraltar .
that was to be our next port of call anyway as alice needed some new undies from marks and sparks !
as we slipped through the straits of gibraltar just ahead of the storm i was sat in my own personal high chair on the bridge .
carol of course had one as well , but mine was slightly better , rhip as david would say , and she was just giving a sigh of relief from hers when the radio burst into life .
mayday , mayday , mayday , this is the container ship tonkun .
one of my containers has exploded causing debris to enter my engine room , and other containers to break loose .
my chief engineer is seriously injured and i am taking on water .
my rudder machinery is damaged and i am starting to list to port .
my position is ... poor sods carol muttered as the tonkuns plea was answered by gibraltar military radio , with that list it will take her out into the centre of the storm , but there was nothing we could do , and an hour later we tied up behind rfa royal fleet auxiliary fort brockhurst , a large one stop replenishment ship belonging to the royal navy .
alice went to her cabin to prepare for some serious retail therapy , so as i was at a loose end i strolled through the hangar and out on to the flight deck for a breath of fresh air , and casually glanced up at the fort brockhursts flight deck we were stern to stern big mistake ! ! !
looking down at me was its captain and two regular naval officers and they were in deep conversation .
i rather foolishly waved up at them , and changed my life forever .
ten minutes later captain tosh mcgregor was sat in my lounge , along with lt commander spiv leahy rn and lt calvin kline usn , an american exchange pilot why cant they all use their given names like the rest of us .
a lot had happened in the past hour , and it was very clear that there were no suitable ships in the area that could go to the tonkuns aid it took more than just good intentions to affect a rescue of this magnitude in storm force seas .
the fort brockhurst had limped into gibraltar earlier that day , she had been returning to the uk after her stint with ctf 150 when one of her propeller shaft bearings had disintegrated , so she definitely couldnt go to the tonkuns aid , but she still had her three serviceable sea king helicopters in the hangar .
question , would two of them fit into the lady ss ?
why , may you ask were they asking me this question ?
because the injured engineer on the tonkun was chief engineer jock mcgregor , captain tosh mcgregors brother , so alices shopping trip was put on hold in fact she was unceremoniously booted off the lady s , along with bonnie , clyde , and every person that was not essential to the rescue mission .
a jackstay was quickly slung between the two flight decks and pallets of essentials were soon sliding down , to be whisked away by the special pallet handling trolleys that the brockhurst provided , to be secured to the sides of the hangar , under the professional eye of chalky .
a long rather large diameter hose suddenly floated from the brockhurst along to the lady s. it was quickly manhandled onto the weather deck and connected to a convenient coupling , and within minutes fuel was gushing into lady ss depleted tanks , then a second smaller bore hose quickly followed , and this topped up our aircraft fuel tanks with avcat aviation carrier turbine fuel , which is used by gas turbine jet engined aircraft at sea .
never had the tanks ever been so full , but it was not all one way , as goodies were sliding down the jackstay , fragile breakables were being hauled up , for the brockhurst to look after until we returned .
bone china is apparently very susceptible to damage when it is thrown across a galley floor in high seas , and so their stores officer sent us over three hundred stainless steel trays that had indented compartments in them they took the food direct , so no plates were required .
as all this was going on marcus was getting very busy , i had absolutely no idea whatsoever what he was doing on board , but he was now working away like a trojan .
he was now the lady ss accommodation officer .
as 844 b flight naval air squadron aircrew and maintainers came pouring on board he allocated them bunks , although the aircrew had some of the plusher cabins as they were hopefully going to be well and truly earning their keep in a few days time .
we also inherited another watch keeping officer for the bridge he was experienced in manoeuvring ships during flying operations , especially in bad weather and a flight deck officer , much to chalkys disgust .
finally a large dockside crane positioned itself between the two ships and swung into action .
first over was a mobile electricity generator for use by the aircraft , and then two very heavy diesel engine powered mechanical handlers , for moving the aircraft about on the soon to be heaving flight deck .
finally two shiny westland sea king hc4s , blades folded back , were swung over , they already had their bright yellow forth road bridge frames fitted , safely clamping the five heavy main rotor blades to the fuselage , for when we ventured out into the stormy atlantic .
chalky supervised the moving of the two cabs into the hangar , he was well into his element .
it was a squeeze with all the extra equipment but he slotted them in side by side and nose to tail .
they were then firmly lashed down to the steel deck using special chain lashings which had heavy duty turnbuckles on them .
the three undercarriage legs of each aircraft had more chains coming off of them than you could shake a big stick at , according to one petty officer air engineering mechanic , more quaint nautical language , perhaps david could act as interpreter .
with both aircraft safely on board , and all the lady ss fuel and fresh water tanks topped up , we were ready to slip .
pontius , the pilot came on board and carol waved at the stevedores to remove the gangway , and they very nearly did .
just as the crane was taking the weight two taxis screeched to a halt alongside lady s , and out poured a sky tv crew .
i had forgotten all about them , and if i had known that sandra bolting was involved i would have instantly reneged on the deal anyway .
the local press and tv stations had gotten to hear about our impending rescue attempt and were out in force on the jetty , snapping and filming away , along with a sizable crowd of well wishers , but they scattered to the four winds as the infamous sandra bolting carved a path to the about to become airborne gangway her instantly recognisable mane of blonde hair bouncing around her shoulders .
a stevedore shouted a warning but she contemptuously ignored him and leapt onto the gangway .
not wanting to become famous as the one that finally did her in the crane driver lowered the now airborne gangway gently back down .
it was touch and go but i made it to the end of the gangway seconds before she arrived on board .
when we were off somalia , i had often wondered what i would have done if pirates had actually tried to board my ship .
would i fight them to the death , or put my hands in the air ?
i then found out the answer , i would have taken their brief case .
chapter 31 sandra bolting nee goodison was the archetypal middle england child she had everything that a child could ever wish for , ponies , the latest cindys , invitations to all the right parties , and up until her seventh birthday party blissfully happy parents .
especially for her birthday party her doting father had gone out and purchased a movie camera and was happily filming the hordes of screaming children gorging themselves to destruction , and then being sick down the sides of his chesterfield sofa , when his gorgeous little sandra looked down the business end of the camera and realised her lifes ambition .
she grabbed a nearby hair brush , and with daddy following her every move with the whirring camera , she rammed the business end of the microphone nee hairbrush into her mothers smiling face and said , smiling primly into the camera , and what are your thoughts on daddy sleeping with the maid ?
her privileged upbringing didnt seem to falter as the only child in a single parent family , in fact it improved two fold , she now had twice as many ponies and cindy dolls and two maids !
her father of course forgave his lovely daughter , after all she was only imitating what she had seen on television , it was a passing phase , but unfortunately the urge to become an investigative reporter didnt pass , and with each passing year it grew stronger .
as soon as it was prudently possible sandra was dispatched to a variety of boarding schools , and her education didnt seem to suffer in the slightest from frequent relocations .
at regular intervals her parents they were still talking , just were asked to make alternative arrangements for their daughters education .
she was developing a nose for a scandal and this request always seemed to follow a resignation or two at her current school .
all her time was geared to journalism in all its forms at every school that she attended she became the editor of the schools news sheet if they didnt have one , then she started one , until of course her parents had to quickly move her on to the next unsuspecting school , she loved it the truth must always prevail .
while at university she started doing a series of articles for the uni rag on promiscuity among her peers which was very well received by the boys , it saved them a fortune in wasted drinks and chat up lines , and quickly came to the conclusion that she must be the only virgin left in town .
her ex friends were always saying dont knock it until youve tried it so at one of the regular saturday night parties at her shared house she selected a likely looking candidate and decided to try it .
first she got a little tipsy , to loosen herself up , and then she had a few more for dutch courage , then heart in her mouth she grabbed the very confused drunk young man whose boyfriend had just dumped him and dragged him off to her room .
five minutes later , as they lay back enjoying a quick cigarette she noticed the unused condom on her bedside table , oh bother or words to that effect she muttered , in her haste she had forgotten all about it , and for the next two weeks she sweated it out , but fortunately in the end she was not with child , although it was a wakeup call for her definitely no more rumpy pumpy until there was a wedding band wrapped firmly around her finger .
on leaving uni she started at the bottom at a local daily newspaper , but within a week , with her breeding and connections she soon had her own column , unfortunately though it was the society column and she hated it .
no one else wanted to do society so she was very much left to her own devices , but slowly , over the next few months her column inches grew longer , and inched their way ever closer to the front page .
within twenty four hours her final article for the local newspaper as she was literally packing and getting out of dodge went national , but fortunately the proprietor oops , i nearly said that dirty old man of a fair to middling national multi media group took an interest in her and her career .
he offered her his protection and a new job , and from then on her career really blossomed .
he of course tried it on , but surprisingly only the once , when they were going to a fancy dress party dressed as laurel and hardy , usually he was quite content for her to be just his arm candy .
over the next few years , as her career gained momentum with more and more corpses in the metaphorical undergrowth she repeatedly asked her benefactor , who was many years her senior , to move her to the burgeoning television news side of his empire .
he of course refused , with her tenacity and looks that would be the last he ever saw of her , so instead he asked her to marry him .
he was in the running for a lordship , but rumours were starting to circulate about his extracurricular activities , so he had to do something desperate they were married in westminster abby .
after several months of being the little housewife sandra realised that there was something missing from their marriage , no rumpy pumpy .
she had thought that their honeymoon had been a little strange , separate rooms and him popping into the hotel every few days to change his clothes , but she assumed that he was either shy or on a story , and things didnt improve in that department once they returned to england either .
her mother , who was desperate to become a nana , and was starting to listen to some of the rumours that abounded about her son in law who was almost as old she was , confronted him , get her pregnant or else .
she didnt specify what the or else was , but he assumed that it had something to do with changing rumours into facts .
casting his mind back to the one and only time that they had nearly done it he went to the local fancy dress hire shop and hired his wife a laurel outfit .
two bottles of wine and another cigarette later she was pregnant this time it took nearly ten minutes .
sandra took to motherhood like a duck to water , and for several years she doted on her son algernon , but unfortunately he wasnt destined to become a right honourable .
her husband didnt get his lordship , or even a sir what he got was arrested , for doing naughty things with minors in bangkok in the same hotel that they had stayed in on their honeymoon .
with the use of copious amounts of money he managed to flee the country , after first purchasing bail and forged travel documents , under an assumed name , and returned to the arms of his ever loving wife , who promptly threw him out onto the street , literally as recorded for posterity on the front page of a rivals newspaper .
unfortunately before she could get him through the courts his empire virtually collapsed , although there was still enough left in the final settlement to keep her comfortable for a good few years to come .
with algernon safely away at boarding school she returned to journalism with a vengeance , the years had been spectacularly kind to her , so with her mane of blond hair blowing in the breeze she started to carve a niche for herself in tv journalism .
over the next few years , following the resignation of many high profile political and high finance figures she gained the reputation of being the one to be wary of at a press conference , which brought her to the attention of sky .
they were well aware of her capabilities so took her on as a political editor and she quickly became one of the faces of sky .
as she was financially independent sandra could occasionally afford to take liberties with her assignments , so when she heard about the fly on the wall assignment on the lady s she put her name forward , forcefully her trophy cabinet was looking decidedly bare at the moment .
her assigner approved her request , but only if she helped with some on the job training for lucy crosby .
lucy was a very beautiful and very experienced weather forecaster in her own right , and a few years earlier she had successfully made the transition from forecasting to presenting the weather reports , but it still wasnt rocking her boat , she wanted to be stretched even further .
sky , with ever an eye to the future , decided to go along with her request to move into mainstream presenting , who knows , they might one day soon have need of her considerable talents , with all the global warming issues looming on the horizon .
after exiting the british airways a320 at gibraltar airport sandra switched on her mobile phone , and was immediately inundated with calls .
her team lucy , 2 cameramen and a director had wangled a couple of extra days in gibraltar to acclimatise themselves top up their tans , so she wasnt expecting anything earth shattering , wrong .
the lady s had come in early and was about to embark on yet another rescue mission , and the message came over loud and clear if you want to keep your job , be on it , so they barged their way through immigration , waving their press cards and passports to all and sundry .
they left two bags in baggage reclaim as they were taking too long to come through and fortunately there was nothing of any importance in either of them , only the cameramens clothing , and they grabbed the first two taxies that appeared on the horizon .
if anyone in the queue had felt the urge to object , no one did , one look from her steely blue eyes shut them all up .
as her taxi screeched to a halt it is surprising how fast a taxi can go when you shove a fist full of notes on its dashboard she realised that she had to stop that gangway from being removed , so she clambered out of the taxi , stormed up to it and leapt onto the about to become airborne gangway , and started marching purposefully towards the top which was by now well and truly in the air .
clunk , the gangway landed back on the lady ss weather deck again , just as she reached the top .
she stood there , handed andrew michaels her brief case and hoped that he would last more than ten minutes ! ! ! !
chapter 32 as i took her hand and helped her down on to the weather deck my stomach started to churn , funny i had never been sea sick before .
when all her team were finally on board i waved to the crane driver to remove the offending item , as there wasnt going to be time to argue the toss with ms bolting and try to get her to leave , we had to leave right now , anyway if she became too much of a handful i could always clap her in irons now that might be fun .
fortunately scott was nearby and i handed the team over to him as he had been gazing open mouthed at lucy , and seemed to be suffering from sea sickness as well .
he led them off , to sort out their up links or something , and it was then back to the business at hand and to try and stop thinking about that hair , i had been helping doc martin sort out some of the down loaded medical supplies from the fort brockhurst before we hit the open sea , until i had been so rudely interrupted .
when i had equipped the new wing out at the health centre in san miguel i had added the funding of two doctors and four nurses on their must have list .
they were to be additional to the regular compliment of medical staff , and their primary duties were to be available , one at a time , for embarkation on the lady s when she went to sea for any period of time .
when not waterborne then their first priority was to look after el campos employees one thing i didnt want was for my employees to be sat around half the day waiting to see a doctor , if after that they had nothing to do the majority of the time then the health centre could use them to their hearts content .
doctora clara botella and two of the nurses had done their stint down to cape town , and now it was the turn of doctora raquel martinez goi of course everyone called her doc martin and the other two nurses .
both doctoras had , until recently been doctors with the spanish navy , and fortuitously doc martins last posting had been with a search and rescue unit .
when we finally got all her goodie boxes down to the sick bay , which , if i do say so myself is a pretty damn fine sick bay , and once everything was stowed away it was time for me to get to the bridge before it got really lumpy , and on arrival i noticed two things immediately .
number one pontius still had the con , wasnt he supposed to be on his way back to gib ?
no , apparently his pilot cutter had developed engine trouble two days ago so he was along for the ride , and coincidentally he also just happened to have a very large overnight bag along with him to .
number two which for some reason was much more important sa.. sorry ms bolting had put on some fresh perfume .
scott , for the past week had been playing , not chess or rummikub but with my satellite bits and pieces .
he had been in contact with the engineers at sky and between them they had devised a wireless network around most of the lady s , and after quickly connecting a couple of extra boxes that the cameramen had brought out with them fortunately not in their underwear bags , the three of them started to cheer away in one of the rooms behind the bridge , a tv monitor above my head burst into life , and there was scott in glorious colour , and then he was in stereo .
apparently when both cameras were switched on there was a split screen option yawn .
as i watched the screen they made their way through to the bridge and scott quickly explained that this particular screen was not the one to worry about , that was the internal monitor it was the one next to it , which was currently showing sky news .
why ?
i naively asked .
because in ten minutes time the lady s broadcasting corporation is going on air .
ten minutes later , as we exited the straits of gibraltar , and out into the raging storm , sandra , dressed in a rather fetching one size fit all bright orange one piece survival suit started the first live broadcast from outside on the port bridge wing .
i , and a few million other people watched as her hair flew in every direction , until a passing wave plastered it to her face , and she was laughing uncontrollably .
this was definitely not the old sandra bolting that we all loved to hate !
this first transmission was mainly to check that the up link to the satellite was working correctly , as apparently among all the hi tec gadgetry that i had on board were giro stabilised satellite dishes at this rate i will soon be sound asleep , but it also served another unexpected purpose , it caught the attention of an awful lot of other broadcasting stations around the world as at the moment the world was very quiet , news wise .
an hour later , as it was quickly getting dark , her next live broadcast had an estimated viewing figure of around fifty million .
as sarah was strutting her stuff the rest of us were battening down the hatches , literally .
the pool had been drained and a hefty cover had been slid over the hole , all the shutters over the cabin windows were down and locked , and everything that could be tied down was , and the observation room was packed .
the tonkun was now in mid atlantic , slowly trying to make her way towards the african coast , but she had yet to face the full force of the storm .
after scouring her manifest the consensus of opinion was that the explosion had originated from a container full of office material which had been hard up against the engine room bulkhead .
as the owners of container could not now be traced , this lead to the further assumption that it was not office but terrorist material inside it , and it had become unstable gone bang .
the tonkun was still losing containers from her listing deck and one had , to make matters even worse , clipped one of her propeller blades on its way to davey joness locker , causing unacceptable vibrations above anything but slow ahead , and chief engineer jock mcgregors situation was not improving either he had been blown off a catwalk in the engine room by the concussion and had landed on top of the huge diesel engine , not only suffering spinal injuries , but severe burns as well .
he was now strapped to a spine board but his condition was deteriorating , the ships medical expert was doing her best , but she was not even medically up to a qualified nurses level .
along with the captain and the chief engineer were another twenty two crew members and three wives including jocks but carol estimated that it would take us over thirty six hours to reach the tonkun if we were not to endanger ourselves in these monstrous seas , which would mean that they , and we , would be spending two nights and a day battling the storm before we would even be in a position to try and help them .
lucy forgot all about being a presenter , temporarily at least that rather nice scott had found her an office and quickly turned it into a meteorological centre for her , and within a couple of hours she not only had the lady ss comprehensive weather radar information to hand , but now she was talking directly to a royal air force sentry aew1 that was orbiting high above the storm , downloading an even bigger picture to her .
lt cdr leahy came to the bridge to brief me on what was happening down at the blunt end .
both aircraft call signs 411 and 412 were safely tucked up in the hangar and were fully fuelled and ready to go .
as both were winch equipped westland sea king hc4s they were configured for the transport role not anti submarine so each crew consisted of two pilots and a crewman , but no observer navigator .
under manning would not be the problem though as all three of the flights aircraft crews were on board , although this could very well be a moot point as in these seas it would be impossible to even range the aircraft onto the flight deck , never mind launch them into the air .
hopefully conditions would miraculously improve significantly when we neared the tonkun .
every hour , on the hour ms bolting was live on air now inside the bridge , and to give her her due she was very professional .
she didnt exaggerate the situation , although i doubted that our situation could ever be exaggerated , but one thing that i did notice thought was that each time she broadcast she seemed to be getting closer and closer to my chair .
i had lost max the media at gibraltar , and now i was dearly wishing that he was not prone to chronic sea sickness , then , as she was winding up her last live update of the evening she turned to me totally against all the ground rules that i had laid down , shoved her hairbrush nee microphone into my face and asked me what i thought the chances were of a successful rescue .
i was tired , dishevelled , hungry , thinking of other things , and not in a very communicative frame of mind so before engaging brain i told her to go away and annoy someone else .
she smoothly moved the microphone back to her bright red lips bewitching coral i think and primly said into it another time perhaps mr michaels , and now back to you in the studio kay .
she calmly waited until the camera was switched off and with the bridge in total silence she glared at me , stamped her foot , burst into tears and shouted thank you very much andrew before storming off .
i didnt realise that we were now on first name terms .
apparently out of the seventy million people watching , over two hundred of them went to their local bookies and got odds of a thousand to one that we would end up as an item before the end of the trip , what losers !
my bridge highchair was of the fully reclinable variety , with a built in five point harness for good measure , but by midnight id had enough .
everything was running smoothly except for the ship so i bade everyone left on the bridge a fond farewell and retired to my sea cabin .
switch that bloody light off you pig drifted up from a dishevelled duvet on my bunk as i switched on my cabin light , now that did surprise me , i had never heard a duvet talk before , and from beneath its mass a tousled head of blonde hair appeared , and in a more subdued growl she explained that as i had all the right connections electronics wise in my sea cabin she had commandeered it as her press office .
i gave her ten minutes to vacate my premises and then went off to ablute .
on re entering my cabin i found it in darkness , a good start , and blindly made my way to the bunk .
as bunks go it was quite large , almost a double size , and i was in serious need of some zzzzzeds , but as i wrapped myself in the duvet i felt an object lying beside me .
as it was at body temperature i gathered that my last words to her had fallen on deaf ears so with a humf i turned my back on her back , and was asleep in seconds .
about one oclock i woke up for a second and noticed that she had turned in her sleep and was now curled up into my back , damned woman !
at two oclock i awoke to find that i had turned in my sleep and now had a face full of hair , the crew cut really had a lot going for it !
at three oclock i woke to find that the duvet had gone on a voyage of discovery of its own and she was now laying with one arm across my chest , and a leg crooked over mine .
somehow my arm had also gone up and around her shoulder i would definitely have to have a word with that arm in the morning !
at five oclock i awoke and found that apparently we hadnt moved a muscle , the only thing that was different was the fact that we were now both stark naked then i remembered four oclock ! ! !
sandras alarm was set for six thirty mine was set for eight oclock , could this be a sign of things to come ?
so that she had time to prepare herself physically makeup and factually for the first live broadcast of the day at eight oclock , but in the real world , at three minutes to eight she flew onto the bridge and grabbed the prompting notes out of lucys hand who had been dragged out of her met office moments before as no one could find sandra , and quickly glancing through them she raised her head just as the director said live in five , four , three , , , , and the odds immediately plummeted to evens , and two minutes later there wasnt a hope in hells chance of placing a bet anywhere on the planet when i walked onto the bridge .
she stopped mid flow to watch me enigmatic smile on her face walk to my chair , according to the producer it took me eight and a half very long seconds to get there .
a poll taken later estimated that 55 of the eighty five million viewers watching went ahhh , and 60 of the male viewers had their wildest fantasy blown out of the window .
once the broadcast was out of the way it was down to the serious business , but there wasnt a lot of it .
the tonkun was still afloat , although her situation was getting steadily worse , chief engineer mcgregor was stable but in considerable pain , and the weather was becoming evil everyone was running out of superlatives for it .
the only glimmer of light that we had was that lucy , who had been up all night with her scott to keep her company had spotted an anomaly in the downloaded weather charts .
she thought that it looked as though an eye might be starting to form in the storm , and using her copious skills and with carols invaluable input she estimated where it would be at r hour rescue hour .
if the eye did indeed fully form , and continued on its current track the tonkun would enter it around eight oclock tomorrow morning , if everything went right , dedos cruzados fingers crossed .
the chances of that were very slim but we had to hope for the best , and so carol altered course slightly and increased the lady ss speed by five knots , and for the next twenty two hours life on board became almost unbearable , but by the end of that time the lady s had slipped around in front of the tonkun so as to miss her debris field , hitting a floating forty foot container could seriously damage , or even sink us and we were now just entering the perfectly formed eye .
we of course were fortunate and could stay in the eye for as long as we wanted to , but the tonkun would only clip the edge of it for about an hour or so her rudder was now totally seized so she couldnt manoeuvre at all but hopefully that would be long enough .
it was still dark but the ship was a hive of activity , even i was up and about .
down in the hangar , as the sea state quickly subsided the two cumbersome forth road bridge frameworks so nicknamed because of all the tubes that made up their assemblies were removed and the sea kings were readied for flight .
first chalky carefully eased 412 out onto the still pitching deck , although it was now within tolerable limits thanks to the lady ss stabilisers , and the aircrew started its number one engine .
after spreading the main rotors spiv then started number two engine and released the rotor brake .
this was the most dangerous part of the operation as the heavy blades could flex considerably in the gusty conditions and hit the deck , but years of practice paid off and he had her safely burning and turning in seconds .
once 412 was stable doc martin now engulfed in a slightly oversized immersion suit and the extra crewy crewman ducked down under the thrashing blades and ran to the aircrafts steps .
once they were inside and securely strapped in 412 sprang into the air and came to the hover just off the port quarter , she was now acting as plane guard for 411 .
twenty minutes later 411 , with calvin strapped in its right hand seat , and 412 made their way in loose formation to the tonkun , it was now daylight and they were all fervently hoping that she would soon be sufficiently stable for them to carry out the rescue , and sitting in the rear doorway of 411 was sandra and a cameraman , and they were going out live to over one hundred million viewers worldwide .
we had of course had a very full , frank , and meaningful discussion about her going on the flight but eventually i reluctantly came round to her way of thinking not that i had much choice , after all it was her job , it was what she had trained years for , and last but not least it was her fifteen minutes of fame i hoped that it was not also going to be her swan song .
spiv had been dragged into the discussion and pointed out , from a safe distance , that there was not a logistical problem with her going along as each hc4 was capable of carrying 27 fully equipped booties royal marines over four hundred miles and good p.r .
for the royal navy was always very welcome .
as both she and the cameraman had recently done a piece on the north sea oil rigs they were both fully up to date with their dunker training underwater escape training from a helicopter simulator , they had to be before they had been allowed to fly out to the rigs , and they would also be spending several hours with tug and muddy , the two crewies , in the back of 411 before it got ranged , going through what they could and could not do .
one breach of the agreement and she would find herself filming water .
as the lady s had been battling her way to the tonkun spiv had been on the radio , discussing with its captain how the rescue would go down , to the very last detail .
from who would be first down to the last up , but first the tonkuns crew would have to rid as large an area as possible of any overhead obstructions , and as the ship was now listing heavily to port that would have to be the starboard bridge wing .
whip aerials had been hacked down and rigging from the mast had been dumped ignominiously overboard so when spiv judged the seas to be at their calmest he eased 412 into a hover just above the waiting crew .
first down the winch went tug , the spare crewy , and once he was safely on board he slipped the rescue strop under the armpits of the first of the waiting wives and she was whisked safely away .
an estimated one hundred and twenty million people gave a cheer , as 411 was hovering safely to one side just in case , with sandra and her cameraman covering the whole scene from its doorway .
the next down was doc martin and her bag of tricks and then the air transportable stretcher , and doc martin got to work on jock and the burns of the engineer that had dragged him clear of the engine as tug dispatched the tonkuns crew with practiced ease .
after eighteen lifts the strain was starting to tell on spiv so he and calvin swopped places , becoming 411s plane guard and then finally it was the turn of jocks wife , and then the captain .
after they were safely inside 411 it was planned that tug would bring the stretcher up , with jock now firmly strapped into it , and once that was safely on board he would return down to the tonkun to double lift doc quickly back up to the aircraft , as she needed every second of time to prepare jock for the transfer .
as the winch was taking the captain up tug helped doc lift the stretcher into the open , and just as the returning hook came within his reach there was a muffled explosion from deep below in the bowels of the ship , and the vibration from its giant engine ceased .
tug quickly hooked the stretcher on and slipped into his harness his job was now to protect jock as he rose up to the waiting aircraft , doc should be fine until he returned .
as he signalled muddy to hoist away , the ship underneath him gave a violent shake , but then he was safely airborne , or so he thought .
they were at the end of the very long cable , and a gust of wind caused them to swing away from the ship , which was good , but as the winch was only hauling them up slowly the return swing could easily slam them against the tonkuns mast , which was bad .
below them doc picked herself up off the deck and looked towards the bow of the tonkun it was disappearing fast but the aft end of the ship wasnt , the ship was breaking in two , so as the stern of the tonkun rose into the air , doc , standing on the edge of the bridge wing , rose with it , and as the structure reached the highest point in its final journey , before it plunged beneath the waves forever , she found tug and the stretcher less than a metre away from her .
she flung herself between the lifting wires and landed on top of the stretcher , but fortunately with its high sides jock was protected , and she very quickly assumed a very unladylike position , wrapping her arms and legs around the stretcher and hanging on for dear life .
at this point close to one hundred and fifty million people around the world started to breathe again .
as there were now three people plus a stretcher on the end of the thin wire calvin decided to not tempt fate by trying to hoist them all up , instead he slowly flew them back towards the waiting lady s , the stretcher and its compliment just a few metres above the waves as recorded from above by the cameraman of the year .
as 411 approached the lady s the runner up in the cameraman of the year category recorded , from his vantage point on the flight deck , every second of lt cline usn slowly easing his precious load up , and then over the edge of the rolling deck .
calvin then skilfully stopped any swing and gently lowering it to the waiting flight deck crew , on split screen of course .
as his feet and the stretcher touched the deck tug quickly disconnected the winch hook and 411 was off , to recover the winch wire in her own time , and once doc martin had been prised off the top of the stretcher it was bodily lifted up and gently taken down to the sick bay , for doc to continue her ministrations on him , but this time she had a fully equipped sick bay at her disposal , and the extra burns treatment medication that the fort brockhurst had sent over would help her immensely .
as soon as the deck was clear 411 , hook cable now fully rewound was skilfully re directed back in and calvin lowered her onto her spot .
once she was safely chocked and lashed down , but with the blades still turning , first jocks rescuer was lead off to the sick bay for treatment , and then the remainder of the survivors filed out .
as each vacated the aircraft they were collected by a member of the lady ss crew , whose instructions were clear , look after them as if they are your own granny .
fortunately all the crew members involved had a happy family life so they were all well looked after , although most of the survivors just wanting a hot shower , some food , and a good days sleep .
as sandra jumped down from 411s cargo door i rushed in and gave her a very public hug and kiss , in fact it was estimated that 78 of the one hundred and eighty million people watching thought that we would make beautiful babies together .
they must be joking , baby making was for the younger generation but we would certainly keep in practice just in case i changed my mind .
once the aircraft was empty of all its passengers the lashings were removed and calvin was quickly airborne again as there was no time for him to shut his aircraft down and move it into the hangar , there was another helicopter full of survivors waiting in the wings .
with all its passengers safely on their way below spiv shut 412 down , and after the maintainers had given the insides of her engines a fresh water wash to get rid of all the salt she was carefully eased back into the hangar , and then the whole process was repeated all over again with 411 .
these were the real unsung heroes of the whole operation , the maintainers and handlers , without their tireless work the aircraft would never have even left the hangar , never mind got into the air even though there was a tiff or two spit , spit amongst them .
sandra , after exiting 411 , had gone directly to the bridge , where for the next four hours she remained live on air with her lipstick ever so slightly smudged re telling the story over and over again , but each time from the viewpoint off a different person that was directly involved in the rescue .
the pilots and crewies , carol , lucy in her capacity as the weather lady , the captain of the tonkun , jocks wife some holiday this had turned out to be , and then as the viewing figures started to decline me , but fortunately not for long , atmospheric interference suddenly interrupted us thanks scott , i owe you one so sandra quickly handed over to the studio and collapsed into my arms .
she had been running on pure adrenalin for almost eight hour and was absolutely exhausted , so with the help of david we bundled her into my sea cabin , and she was sound asleep before i had peeled the immersion suite off of her .
following the rescue , the lady s lazily circled around in the eye of the storm whilst doc martin , along with her two nurses and caroline worked away on jock and his mechanic , but finally , as day turned to night they had done all they could , what they both needed now was specialist treatment shore side and the quicker the better , so carol eased lady s back into the storm and we headed back in the direction of gibraltar , but this time at a more sensible speed , jocks back couldnt take the punishing gyrations of lady ss mad dash out to rescue him , and so thirty six hours later , as dawn was breaking , first 411 and then 412 lifted off from the lady ss flight deck for the last time .
jock , his wife and doc martin were in the back of one one and his mechanic , caroline and a nurse were in the back of one two .
although both helicopters could easily have taken more passengers it was going to be a long over water trip , so they were acting as mutual sars recovery aircraft for each other , just in case one of them had to ditch .
both take offs were made live on air , as there might just have be some insomniac watching tv at that hour , but as the storm was quickly abating it wasnt a very spectacular event , and fortunately the time spent live was also abating , every question that could be , had been asked what seemed like a thousand times so sandra and lucy now back to being a presenter were slowly winding down and preparing for the real world in a day or sos time .
sandra and i had of course by now officially become an item as were scott and lucy but the closer we came to land the more apprehensive we were both becoming , was this just a flash in the pan , were we just two ships passing in the night no pun intended , so we both agreed that she would continue with her career , and i would return to el campo to let things settle down , and then see how we felt in a few weeks time but we hadnt factored the british prime minister into our thinking .
the lady s was certainly taking the pretty way home , and she wouldnt be arriving in gibraltar until the early hours of the next day , which to my way of thinking was a good thing , we would quietly slip in , in the dead of the night , and then get some well deserved rest what utter rubbish .
as pontius , now back to being a pilot , guided us in , at two oclock in the morning , the rock and a good chunk of spain became ablaze with light .
one thing that we certainly didnt need to do was switch on our navigation lights , with all the rockets and flares in the air it was brighter than day .
boats of every shape and size were coming out to greet us , and they were all crammed to their proverbial gunwales with well wishers and film crews , and as we approached the harbour i let sandra do the honours .
she yanked down hard on the rope above our heads and then she yanked it down again and again whoop , whoop , whoop .
so it was two in the morning i doubted if anyone was asleep within a hundred miles .
the whooping must have been a signal that they were hopefully waiting for as even more fireworks streaked skyward , this year guy fawkes really was coming early , and along the side of the fort brockhurst , in bright multi coloured lights were the words thank you , any time i thought .
as we finally slid alongside the jetty , the same one that we had left less than a week ago , i scanned it for max and alice .
max i had no problem spotting , he was in the centre of the media scrum earning his fee , but alice was harder to spot .
what finally gave her away were the two barking yorkies trying to yank her arm out of its socket but she was oblivious to them , she appeared to be crying into some young mans shoulder .
now that was an unexpected turn up for the books !
when the gangway was safely across alice led the three of them on board , and as she reached the deck she released bonnie and clyde .
they then did a fair impersonation of a brace of greyhounds and were soon clambering all over me , licking and slurping away , which of course i loved but i was really intrigued by the stranger , and as he and alice entered the bridge alice ran happily across to me and gave me a big hug and a kiss , and there were no signs of any tears anywhere , and the stranger did the same only to sandra .
pistols at dawn young man unhand my wench !
then i realised that they were not unwanted advances , hopefully this young man was algernon , her son .
chapter 33 algernon please call me gerry first realised that his mother was off on another one of her adventures when he was quietly sitting on the top deck of a london bus .
he looked out of the window and there , on about ten television screens was his mother , the bus had stopped outside the sony shop .
he didnt really pay the screens too much attention sometimes it was a bit embarrassing having a famous mother until a passing wave drenched her , and she laughed now this was something new , so battling his way against the tide of embarking humanity he scrambled off the bus and ran into the shop .
a large crowd had gathered around an even larger television screen , so he quickly pushed his way to the front .
after quickly explaining who he was to an irate irishman , paddy then explained to him what his mother had been up to as opposed to his first instinct of loosening a few of this rude young mans teeth , and then both of them remained transfixed to the screen , along with an ever growing crowd , until the shop manager pleaded that his dinner was getting cold .
hailing a passing taxi algernon gave the driver the address of his flat and fished his iphone out of his man bag .
with the taxi waiting outside he quickly packed a grip , rushed jaws his goldfish around to his neighbour , grabbed his passport , and the driver got him to the airport with five minutes to spare , and as he sat back into his seat , on the last flight of the day to gibraltar , he wondered what all the panic was about .
his mother was forever getting herself into hotspots and he had never reacted like this before , then he remembered her sea drenched smile and fell into a troubled sleep .
finding a suitable hotel in gibraltar was not very difficult he just took his mothers advice .
start at the best and work down was her maxim she was usually on expenses and usually it never failed , and this time was no exception .
the next morning , as he tucked into his full english with his table pride of place in front of a hastily installed television set , he waited for his mothers first live broadcast of the day , and the black pudding was just inches from his mouth when his mothers dishevelled face lit up the screen and the delicacy never completed its journey .
as he watched , with the two cameramen jockeying to find the best angle , his mother paused , and an enigmatic smile came onto her face .
as one camera held his mother in close up , the other one panned around and picked up an equally dishevelled mr michaels , and it slowly followed him as he walked to his chair on glorious split screen of course the director must have a really evil sense of humour he thought , as he groaned oh mother .
behind him he heard an equally exasperating oh father , and turned his head , just in time to see a rather nice ear flash in front of his eyes .
after devouring his suspended black pudding alice commented as you didnt look as though you were going to eat it , it was a shame to let it go cold , and then continued on was your comment figuratively or biologically speaking ?
after collecting his shattered wits he indignantly retorted , biologically .
mine too , and then quickly sat in the empty chair across from him , latched onto his half eaten breakfast and devoured it , she was ravenous , with all the worry she hadnt eaten a thing since leaving the lady s. two hours and another two full english breakfasts later , they were both almost up to speed on each others life history , then surreptitiously she arrived at the question that she had wanted to ask at the very beginning , girlfriends ?
plenty , but none life threatening , and you ?
oh the same , she casually answered then , do you like dogs ?
with that they collected bonnie and clyde and departed on her delayed retail therapy , although they never passed a shop with a television set in its window without pausing to catch up on the latest news .
chapter 34 the remainder of the night was spent entertaining gibraltar , or at least a large part of it doesnt anyone ever sleep around here ?
and then finally , after a quiet hour to ourselves , the moment that we had both been dreading arrived , sandra and i had to part .
we had already agreed countless times that it was of course the right thing to do , to let things settle down etc , etc , etc but it didnt seem to be helping very much .
fort brockhurst provided a boat for us as it was still too manic on the jetty to safely set foot on it and the lady ss boats were still well and truly battened down and we slipped quietly away to the airport with about twenty other assorted boats following us .
the rest of sandras team plus scott , slipped on board my brand new , never seen by me gulfstream g450 with teddy and david at the controls grrrrrr as we stood holding each other ahhh at the bottom of the steps , and at that point if it hadnt been for her bosses plaintive cries for help a mystery virus was decimating his staff , i think that she would have finally done the sensible thing and pulled a sickie , but duty called , and as i watched the graceful aircraft climb away towards england i wished that my duty wouldnt call , i desperately wanted to be on that aircraft with her .
id had absolutely no sleep at all last night but now i was expected to entertain the governor of gibraltar , the chief minister and a host of local dignitaries , a representative of the owner of the tonkun , a royal navy admiral or two , a very senior royals son not the one that had had the naughty weekend at el campo , the one that had just traded his polo pony in for a gunship , a couple of favoured journalists , and anyone else that mad max could squeeze onto the a list i had drawn a line at a b list .
i could easily have climbed on board my aircraft and disappeared off into the wild blue yonder with her , but i didnt want to turn into the type of person that just left his staff to pick up the pieces , so it was with a heavy heart that i climbed back on board the waiting boat and made my way back to lady s. as we approached the lady s a rather swish motor boat crammed full of scantily clad dolly birds careered past , and i was showered with ladies undergarments , and not very large ones at that , just large enough to have a telephone number scribbled in a strategic place on each of them .
too late ladies im already taken now that thought cheered me up , and that night morning sandra and i fell asleep talking on the phone , and we were both shocked into consciousness by her blasted alarm clock she was definitely not bringing that with her to el campo !
but we agreed after a few minutes that there would be no repeat of her morning after television appearance .
the local shipyard had kindly offered me the use of their facilities , so the lady s was going to spend a few days in dry dock having her bottom touched up lucky thing and a few minor bits and bobs sorted out , although she had come through the whole experience virtually unscathed , just a few dents here and there , so after a shower and a very late breakfast id often had lunch earlier i went off to do the rounds of my crew , to thank them for their sterling efforts over the past few days and to hint that santa might just be coming early in their pay packets , but virtually to a man and or woman they thanked me , but what they would really like was a small commemorative patch that they could wear on their uniforms , similar to the ctf 150 patches that some had already received .
they were genuinely proud of being part of the past few days and they would like , if i was agreeable , to have something to show for it , sort of a campaign medal .
caroline , get your sketch pad out , oh and marcus , another parade please .
that evening , as i was taking my first lesson in how to fly the g450 , i had a few passengers along for the ride , doc martin and her nurses , maria who was still miffed at having to baby sit alice at gibraltar , charlie with the hounds and alice , with a rather shy gerry sat beside her .
he had wondered if i wouldnt mind if he hung out with alice for a bit .
a bit of what i asked myself , mind you i quite liked the name algernon , then , once we were safely back on the ground i sent teddy off on a secret mission , had a brief word with mrs blake about our next royal visitor , and then i suddenly felt deflated , the after effects of sustained adrenaline does that to you , and i felt strangely funny , then i realised why el campo wasnt moving .
i was sitting alone on the island in the centre of my man made sorry , paul made lake and there was no noise or vibration to be had , it would take me some time to get used to the peace and quiet again , and as i sat there in my special place , thinking over what had gone on during the past few hectic days , i debated the fact with myself that had i been wrong to fall so hard , or so quickly for sandra or was i , as alice had said , simply moving on to the next stage in my life i hoped so .
the next afternoon i sat watching sandra , i was still in spain , she was still in england , but it was the prime ministers monthly press conference and the cameras couldnt keep away from her .
as she entered the room all the journalists had stood and applauded her , and now she stood , veritably glowing , with her peers , waiting for the main man himself to enter the room .
the prime minister entered and magnanimously congratulated sandra on her little adventure , and then reluctantly asked her for the first question of the session .
he wasnt very happy about even being in the same room as her , but with hopefully millions watching he had to put on a brave face .
he wasnt one hundred percent convinced that adam had been struck down by the mysterious virus that was decimating sky presenters , meaning that she had to replace him at the last minute .
what he really believed was that the dragon lady , sorry ms bolting , was plotting something .
she had already brought two of his cabinet down , was he to be the third ?
what on earth had she got on him ?
and so he stood there , perspiration starting to trickle down his brow , waiting for her question , and it turned out to be an absolute gift , the sort or question that politicians loved .
he could prevaricate , placate every faction of his fractured party and look as though he was all things to all people , but there was a catch , it sorry she had asked for a favour could she also ask the last question of the session as well ?
his heart stopped , that was it his career in politics was over , and it was off onto the after dinner speaking circuit .
somehow he made it through the session , trying to string his last few minutes in politics out as long as he could , but finally the last question of his prime ministerial career was about to be asked , and as promised the final question of this session from you please ms bolting .
he stood there physically shaking , the whole of the audience had their pens and mobiles poised , television programs had been interrupted as directors and producers realised that something monumental was about to go down , and sandra rose elegantly to her feet .
then , with a sweet smile on her face , and a gentle tone in her voice she purred mister prime minister , i understand that his knees started to buckle it is your wifes birthday today the damn woman has found out about the bracelet , and i am sure that i speak on behalf of the entire press corps in wishing her a happy birthday , she is such a lovely lady , and then she sat down .
you could have heard a pin drop , and the prime minister stormed off , that harridan was really going to drag it out .
he was safely in his ministerial limo before he realised that he had bought the bracelet quite legitimately on e bay , it looked more expensive than it really was , she must have something else on him .
that evening he cancelled dinner with the visiting president of pakistan and went to bed early , after first liberally dosing himself up with his favourite sleeping potion , but even that tasted sour , and so the next morning he could wait no longer and rang sandras boss .
he still owed him a few favours from when he had been on the back benches many years ago .
spanky they had both been at the same public school together put me out my misery , what has the bitc got on me .
a very confused spanky he had quite enjoyed some of the schools rituals thought for a moment , then realised what was going through slimeys mind , nothing old fruit , shes just in love .
spanky then went back to watching sandra interviewing a very liberal cabinet minister , who it was rumoured , had been more active in physical education than she should have been , they were just finishing swapping yorkshire pudding recipes enough was enough .
as sandra left the building on indefinite leave she realised that her father had been right all along , journalism had just been a passing phase , it had just taken her a little time to realise it .
she plucked her mobile out of her gucci shoulder bag and speed dialled andrew star one .
hello darling , do you like yorkshire pudding ?
ive just been told this fabulous recipe .
although i had already passed the new recipe on to marcel who wasnt impressed with it one little bit , but then what do the french know about real food i played along .
why dont you come and make it for me ?
i answered .
i thought you would never ask she purred , and then i asked her exactly where she was .
outside sky head quarters , im just about to cross over the road .
stand perfectly still i said dont move a muscle , oh , and do you have your passport with you ?
of course i do silly she retorted i used to be a journalist .
i liked the used to be bit , and picked up my desk phone , speed dialled david and as soon as he replied i told him to pick her up .
switching back to my mobile i asked her do you need anything from your apartment .
not really came the puzzled reply , and then in the background i heard the throaty roar of a powerful four by four pull up alongside her .
a door slammed as the passenger exited to open the rear door , and i heard caroline say maam .
i presume that you are hungry she said as she slid into the back seat of the vehicle .
yes , very i replied , and then afterwards perhaps we can have some of your yorkshire pudding , in the time that it took david to drive to london city airport teddy had the gulfstream up and running , and a few minutes later , after he had watched the g450 lift smoothly off the runway , and disappear into the distance , the aircraft marshaller looked down at the tip in his hand , the keys to an almost new jeep , some people really do have more money that sense he muttered under his breath thank the lord .
sandra flew down the aircraft steps and straight into my arms , and after finally coming up for air i took her hand and led her away from the house , the sightseeing could wait till later , first off i wanted to introduce her to some very nice people .
we quietly walked to the landing stage at the lakes edge , climbed aboard a motor boat and cast off , and as we slowly made our way to the island i looked up at the overcast sky and gave a mock shiver , sorry about the weather , i know that in all the books it says come to sunny spain im sure that we can sue someone .
she gave me a big hug and quietly whispered into my ear as long as i am with you it could be snowing and i would still be perfectly happy .
hmm i thought , think of all the money that i could save on air conditioning if we relocated to switzerland , and then we arrived at my island .
i tied the boat up to the landing stage and helped her ashore , and we walked hand in hand into its special feature .
it looked like your average mini volcano , just to the side of the eighth hole , and uninitiated golfers might justifiably think that id had it put there to make the hole more interesting , but they would be wrong , it was there because i could visit it every time i came on the golf course , whether i was doing the full sixteen holes , or just the first or the last eight .
i had already told sandra all about my volcano , and shown her the photos when we were on board the lady s , so we quietly walked hand in hand into its entrance .
it wasnt a concealed entrance , anyone was more than welcome to enter it any time they wished , it just wasnt an in your face type of entrance that demanded that you had to enter every time you arrived on the island .
we walked down the short tunnel towards its centre , and sandra gripped my hand even tighter as we exited it .
in front of us was a huge cube of brown marble , about two metres square .
the top was mirror smooth and sloped gently down towards us , but the sides were rough hewn , just as they had been when the block had first arrived at the masons .
surrounding the marble block was a wide walkway with gently curved wooden benches set against the sloping walls , and when the sun was out i could quietly sit there , either in the sunshine or the shade , depending on how the mood took me , putting the world to rights with sheila , george and millie .
on the gleaming surface of the marble slab were two gold plaques , not gold plated plaques , or gold painted plaques but gold plaques and their surfaces had been engraved by a master engraver , and they covered three pewter urns .
sandra turned to me , tears starting to run down her cheeks and said in a husky voice would you care to introduce me to sheila , george and millie .
i had promised george and millie that i would find them a suitable resting place , and this huge marble slab rested directly on the concrete base of that rusty old aerial that had taken them from this world .
it was the last place on the planet that they had been together , and now that they had relocated to a better place , their earthly remains would still remain together on that very same spot , for all eternity , and i was sure that they wouldnt mind sharing it with sheila .
together we walked hand in hand up to the slab and sandra reached out with her free hand and ran her finger tips lightly over the engraved words , sheila , loving wife and mother we will always love and miss you on the smaller plaque , and george and millie still together , and truly missed on the double , along with the dates .
still holding her hand i introduced sandra to them , and then surprisingly sandra started speaking quietly to them , as if they were standing in front of her .
she wished them a safe onward journey and promised all three of them that if it was meant to be , she would , with all her heart , look after me for them , and then finally she raised the tips of her fingers to her tear soaked lips , kissed them lightly , and then placed the moist tips on sheilas plaque and as if on cue the sun came out from behind the last cloud in the sky .
as we exited the tunnel , arms around each other , i looked up at the perfect blue sky and commented to my new true love , it looks as though its going to be another wonderful day in paradise .
about the author i spent twenty two years in the fleet air arm royal navy as an aircraft mechanic , most of my time as a maintenance supervisor .
following a brief time driving heavy goods vehicles i then spent a further fourteen years as a housing officer for a local authority housing association before being medically retired .
i have two children and a growing number of grandchildren from my first marriage , and following my retirement , met , married , and relocated to spain with melva .
this book is the first in my andrew michaels trilogy .
continue following his adventures in onward and upward and above and beyond connect with me online http www.tonywilson.es https www.smashwords.com profile tonywilson sifter part 1 mitul mistry copyright 2012 mitul mistry roark hudson associates smashwords edition discover other titles by mitul mistry at smashwords.com map chapter 1 she could feel the violence of a thousand universes dying in birth .
the cycle of nothing and something , the spirit of mind , body , and the force of conviction , feverishly slicing into itself as its blood sated an infinitely rising oblivion .
just as the web of existence suspended the masterless pawns in precious temporary stasis , the consuming specter of creations twin rose and hungered .
in her minds eye , she witnessed the end of her world , more imminent than god , and it almost mattered not for the pre destined departure of so many beloved , so many that separated the nothing from something .
in the shadow of the shell of a city , she was already almost alone .
and her blood was already spilling across the streets .
from the mingling shades of darkness of the urban maze of the city , she could feel the shadows stalking her .
with shallow breath , her paltry heart pumped forcefully , the cool night air running raggedly through her lungs .
she breathed bestially , the way a deer breathes , feeling the fangs beginning to caress its flank .
clasping her wounds to staunch the blood , she jumped down over the railing of the wall , her landing flowing into a sprint through the alleyways .
her boots beat the earth , lifting her in the moment to moment flight for her life .
there was no time for fear , no room for the error that would inevitably follow , and yet all she could feel in her heart was the cry of a little girl for mercy .
but at the sound of metallic boots echoing not far behind , she knew that her hunters knew only hunger .
she turned into one of the side passages , crouching against the stone , wading deeper into the shadow of the alley .
she only prayed it would be dark enough .
the warm glow of a torch interrupted the cool blue violet of the night that otherwise prevailed .
two hooded men soon materialized .
they were wraiths , the metal of their armor glinting under their cloaks , the bare steel of their blades shining with a wicked , fiery glow under the torchlight .
their chests heaved up and down and they spoke urgently to one another as one pointed down the corridor .
she couldnt tell whether they had spotted her or not , and she leveraged what will she had to keep her spirit silent .
her throat constricted and she could feel her stomach sink as one of the men turned towards her , for out of the darkness of his hood she found herself looking into the face of a gilded demon .
it was a contortion of gold , metal and horror , and she could feel the blood drain out of her face as the visage reawakened the sleeping fear of memory .
it was more than a mask it was a nightmare made manifest .
the man approached warily he had not spotted her in the thick shadows , nor the stippled trail of blood she had left in her wake .
but if she didnt act soon , she knew she would be strangled , either by the claws of the gauntlet or by the gilded fear .
she leaped , taking hold of the torch in his hand and forced it into his face let the demon eat fire .
the hood erupted in flame and with coiled and snake like force , she slammed her leg into the burning man , launching the human torch into his comrade .
her vision flashed , and for a moment her world was consumed by the image of a sinister force .
she ran , only to find two more hooded men stepping out of the darkness at the end of the alley ahead .
she turned around to a previous intersection and made a turn , and was confronted yet again by two more shadows .
nothingness incarnate , her vision failing her again , her soul overtaken by the spirit of a ceaseless force .
the flash of steel was faster than light , yet she met it with a blade of her own .
the burning mans friend charged as he cut through the air with his sword , and she deftly opened him up with a vicious slice .
in an instant , she unleashed a lifetimes rage with her fist , crushing his windpipe with her hardened knuckles .
as the man stumbled , choking , she latched on to the stone wall and scrambled up towards the flat rooftop of the building .
she gasped , the spectral visage more than her meager soul could bear , overtaking her consciousness with the will and determination of a godly flood .
as she careened onto the roof , a torch came flying over her , nearly setting her raven black hair on fire .
quickly , she made her way over the rooftops of the dense city .
she would be seen by anybody on the walls in the middle of the moonlit night .
she needed to get back down into the alleys , but she could feel her pursuers swarming the arteries of the city , phantoms passing unseen amidst a sleeping populace .
ahead , she could see the long spiral tower of the temple and for the first time in ages felt a surge in her spirit .
her friends , her partners her family .
for once , she wouldnt have to stand alone .
glancing back , she saw the shadowy silhouette of a hooded man appear against the crisp blue of the night sky , and at the sight , she urged herself onward .
reaching the edge of the rooftop , she looked down only to see two hideous masks looking up at her from the street below .
light filtered dimly through the stained glass window of the temple ahead .
could she make it ?
nothing else for it .
stepping back , she took a deep , frantic breath and forced as much speed into her legs as possible .
within a few steps , the roof ran out , and she dove off the ledge , for a precious moment free of the weight of the world .
the air whipped across her body and she focused her eyes on the temple window ahead of her , seeing its radiant patterns welcoming her home .
yet as she did so , an inferno exploded across her body .
she looked down , the fire of the torch setting her body alight .
as she looked up again , however , she barely had time to close her eyes as she felt the glass of the window shatter against the force , her body a veritable fireball hurtling through the quiet city night .
the air gushed around her as she fell , and in an instant the force of the earth blew through her body .
she rolled , putting out the fire as best as she could , and buckled as the worlds weight quickly regained hold .
after a moment , she opened her eyes and breathed .
through the delirium , she saw that she had fallen into the pews , the wooden furniture scattered everywhere , the shards of glass laced with blood .
she tried getting up , but cried in agony .
her body had endured years of abuse , and now she had finally pushed it to its limits .
the initial shock was subsiding and she could feel the intense pain of the burns coming alight , the open cuts searing as they dribbled away her life a drop at a time , but the thought of the masked men in the street brought her clarity .
clenching her teeth , she forced herself to get up , but , gasping in anguish , she collapsed in the aisle .
any moment now , her sisters and brethren would come to her .
any moment now they would make their final sera silvanis .
the bone cold voice crackling through metal sent her soul into seizure .
you knew this was how it would end .
she coughed , spitting out blood from her cut lip .
with her head against the cold stone of the temple , she felt panic course through her veins .
where were they ?
where were her friends ?
and what was that smell ?
and yet , it had been your choice , the man said from beyond , punctuated by the cold echo of boots .
it was your decisions that led you and your order to this end .
to a puddle of your own blood on a temple floor .
she made to spit acid touched words , but found herself only letting loose a groan .
holy hell , the stench was unbearable .
it couldve been different .
the slow and deliberate pace of the brutal , heavy bootsteps coming towards her overpowered the frantic pulsing of her heart .
with a furious tremor , she forced herself up and felt gut wrenching horror descending upon the core of her being .
amidst her , she found blood stained bodies littered about the once hallowed grounds , beginning to decay in dried crimson puddles .
she let loose a breathless scream .
the faces , the clothing , the souls she could feel her face contort in fear and pain as she put what little strength she had into her muscles , trying desperately to crawl away .
no .
not like this .
it couldnt end like this .
but the owner of the boot grinding into her back , forcing her lips to the floor , seemed to think otherwise .
she stifled a gasp of pain as the masked men lifted her up and forced her onto a chair in the middle of the aisle .
and there before her stood the gold faced monstrosity himself .
and as the ultimate reality sunk upon her feeble frame , she could only whisper , solvenus .
the sacred candles glimmered at the head of the aisle , let by other masked hunters .
normally , the flames would have lent the place a feeling of peace and warmth .
but as they flickered upon the golden metal of solvenuss vicious visage , she knew they would be the flames of her last rites .
you know the truth , solvenus said .
youve worked hard enough to uncover it .
but what you dont know is that youve allowed your life , your soul , and everything youve ever stood for to become nothing more than a recordless obstacle .
as he looked at her , standing tall and stolid , she wondered if , beneath the protection of his mask , there was anything human .
the world will end , solvenus said .
you know this .
you have seen the undoing .
and you know there is only one who can save us .
the pain of the burns had now evolved into agony .
she felt her skin crawl and cry out for mercy , her muscles and bones moments from finality and collapse .
you were our guardians !
sera said .
you were the sword and the shield that ensured this world wouldnt sink into carnage .
and here you are , amidst a graveyard of brilliant , honorable victims , about to perpetuate carnage again .
and for what ?
for salvation , solvenus said .
sera i want you to know that i love you .
i love my sisters , and my brethren , no matter their allegiance .
the only thing we have in this cold dead world is each other .
and even as i stand over your wilted , broken body , i know that this is the price we pay to save us all .
for a thousand years .
for ten thousand forever .
no , solvenus there is no forever .
there is only today .
yesterday , you murdered my sister .
and today , youre going to murder me .
not murder , sera , solvenus said .
that would be a waste .
sera stared wearily , but was unable to make sense of the words .
and as she turned towards the temples entrance open to the city night , she saw the savior striding forth , and it dawned on her as her nightmare became real .
she woke up panting , the down of her blanket covered in cold sweat .
larissa , napping again ?
come on , help me pack .
we have to leave tonight .
it took a moment for larissa to get her bearings .
she ran her fingers through her hair and found herself covered in cold sweat .
she breathed deep , gripping herself , feeling as if she had narrowly escaped some horrible fate .
she was home .
she was safe .
as she got up , a book fell from her lap .
valencian fairytales and more .
she had been packing , yes , and had dug the book out of the mess that was her library .
she had started reading it , got snuggled up in her blanket on the couch , and must have drifted off .
she remembered the joy of reading this very book as a child .
valencian fairytales were so beautiful , if unrealistic , and yet her dream had been nothing of the sort .
it had been another one of those dreams .
more of a nightmare , really .
she was only left with flashes of images and words , but it was enough to know that it was a dream she didnt want to remember .
it was scary to think her girlish mind was capable of conjuring such horror .
larissa , please !
aunt edith said .
i dont know which of your things you want to take with us and which you want to leave behind .
ill be right there , larissa said .
she looked in a nearby mirror and straightened out her hair .
it wouldnt do to look like she had just been attacked by a wolf in her sleep .
she didnt want to deal with any awkward questions .
but god , did she look pale .
she walked out to the circular courtyard and greeted her aunt .
edith smiled warmly in return .
so how were those dreams , sweetie ?
edith said .
oh fine , larissa said .
the dreams of youth .
a girls dreams , edith said as she clambered onto the horse cart , assessing how much space they had to pack in all their junk , no doubt .
i used to have dreams like those once .
edith jumped down .
no matter .
so , what would you like to take with us ?
now keep in mind we only have so much room in the cart , and i only have so much room in my apartment just my books , larissa said .
edith paused .
what about your dresses , and your stuffed animals , and your burn them .
edith chuckled .
well then , she said , putting her hands on her hips .
lets go take a look at those books .
as soon as they entered larissas library , ediths smile turned into a frown .
oh my , edith said .
yeah , its pretty messy , larissa said .
its not that its just theres so many of them !
it certainly wasnt a massive library by any means , but there were still easily hundreds of books that lined the walls .
id like to take them all , but im reasonable , larissa said , so ive sorted through them already .
i just want to take the ones on the left , over there .
ediths face lightened considerably .
oh , well then , thats not so bad .
you had me scared for a moment .
they grabbed some boxes and began packing .
as larissa sat with her aunt , neatly arranging the numerous books in stacks and placing them in boxes , she felt suddenly upset .
as she looked around the small library , with her couch in the middle , she couldnt help but feel an overpowering sense of nostalgia .
she hadnt felt too attached to the house , but nevertheless , she had spent much of her childhood curled up on that couch , reading books in her library .
and now she would never get the chance to do so ever again .
it had finally hit her .
that entire part of her life was now over .
her emotion must have been visible , as her aunt suddenly put her arm on her shoulder .
hey , its okay .
edith said .
i know how you feel .
its not easy leaving the place you grew up in .
its not that , larissa said , wiping away her tears .
she hadnt even realized that she had been crying .
i dont care too much about leaving the house .
its just the library .
i spent a lot of time here , thats all .
well , dont worry , edith said .
well try and fit as many books into the cart as we can .
well even stuff some in the carriage if we have to .
its not a big deal .
ive read most of them anyway .
even if we took all of them , i wouldnt want to reread each one .
they continued packing in silence .
it was nice .
the library , her library , was meant for quiet .
the rustling and noise of the shifting books , however , felt almost like a violation .
larissa tried not to think about it .
after a while , her aunt finally broke the silence .
listen , i know we dont really know each other so well , but i promise , everything will be fine .
i know , larissa said .
i mean , i have a good job at a law firm , and it pays well .
i cant afford to pay for a tutor , but the public schools in the dominion really arent that bad at all .
i hear youre a very bright girl .
you should do fine .
i know larissa said .
norboroughs a very nice city too .
should be a nice change of scenery for you and amelia .
im sure you girls will love it larissa turned to her aunt .
edith looked very worried and upset .
larissa hadnt even noticed her aunts voice had been quite upbeat .
auntie , everything will be fine , i know .
really , im not upset , or worried , or anything .
youre my mothers sister .
i do remember when you came up here when i was a kid , and i enjoyed playing with you back then .
i trust you , amelia trusts you , and please stop worrying .
edith reached over and hugged her .
oh , bless you .
youre an angel , you know that ?
its so horrible that this should happen to you , to your family .
felix was such a great man .
you must be so devastated , but you deal with your grief so well for a girl so young .
maybe i should start reading some of your books .
edith was such a sweet woman .
but she didnt really understand .
its not as bad for me as you might think .
believe me , im not half the angel you think i am .
my father honestly , i didnt really know him that well .
her aunt looked at her , furrowing her brow .
what do you mean ?
well , he was always gone .
i dont know .
he would be gone for months on end .
then he would come up to the house for a few days , then go again .
sometimes i didnt even get more than a hi and a bye from him before he was off .
really ?
edith seemed surprised .
well , i knew his skills were in high demand , but i would have thought having such a beautiful family and having built such a beautiful house hed want to spend some time in it .
yeah , i would have thought so too , larissa said , half to herself .
i guess i cant vouch for your father , but your mother loves you very much , i hope you know that .
i do .
its just that we went through some hard times when we were your age , and she wanted to make sure her children wouldnt have to go through the same ordeal .
everything she does now , she does for her family .
hard times ?
larissa said .
yeah , ill tell you about them some time .
larissa didnt press her .
well , edith said , changing the topic , i will miss coming up here every now and then .
i enjoyed it .
this place is like a small palace in the wild .
nobody to bother you .
nothing to cloud your mind .
just clean mountain air and a beautiful home to stay in , not to mention a beautiful family to spend your time with .
yeah , but as you said , id like a change of scenery .
this place is nice , but the only friend i have here is amelia .
its a nice place to visit , but not such a nice place to live in forever .
i can understand that .
norborough is nice .
not much crime , mostly a middle class city .
youll meet plenty of girls and boys your age .
i think ive got the packing covered here .
ill pack some of your clothes and whatever else i think you might need along with amelias things .
why dont you go have a last look around the place before we go ?
the skies are getting kind of dark .
i think it might rain , so we should get going as soon as possible .
okay auntie , thank you , larissa said , giving her a hug .
she turned to leave .
and ill try to cram as many books into the cart as possible , i promise , edith said .
larissa smiled .
she really was a sweet woman .
and she obviously cared about her , even though they barely even knew each other .
perhaps it really wouldnt be so bad after all .
larissa walked out to the courtyard once again , leaning against one of the columns .
it was an ornate , semicircular affair , with columns holding up an arching , rounded roof , all surrounding a small garden at the center .
there was a large circular paved roadway for horses and carriages .
all of this looked out upon a grand mountain vista .
one could see the road winding away from the house for miles , the forested lands stretching out as far as the eye could see .
and off to the north , mountains spanned the horizon .
the mountains dwarfed the entirety of the land , and growing up under their shadow gave larissa a true appreciation of scale and beauty .
it was a picturesque place to live , or at least thats what it seemed like to most people , initially .
but larissa had spent her whole life there , and it was difficult for people to understand how isolated one could feel , living all the way out there in the very backwoods of the dominion .
you were miles away from civilization , and for a child growing up , that meant nobody to play with or talk to .
so she had resorted to her books , the only place where she could listen to the voices of people other than her family .
not that her family had spoken much .
they all had their own agendas now , certainly , and it had basically always been that way .
except for larissa , though .
she didnt have an agenda .
and of course neither did amelia .
but she supposed it was pointless , reminiscing , thinking about the past .
that was all done with .
she could look forward to norborough .
finally , a break from the isolation !
she wouldnt have to deal with her mother anymore , or her siblings .
she would have an aunt that would take care of her and genuinely care about her .
and she would have amelia , her only real friend in the whole world .
perhaps she ought to have been sadder .
but she wasnt .
just tired .
she wanted the mess to be over with so she could get on with her life and meet the future , whatever it would bring .
i see my lady is hard at work as always .
heristo , larissa smiled , giving the old man a hug .
i was thinking .
yes , quite .
much to think about for a young mountain damsel , im sure .
larissa laughed .
im not a damsel .
and im not an old man .
that doesnt change what people think to themselves when they look at me , though , now does it ?
you know what they think when they see me at a shop or on the street ?
they think , why , what an old man !
and im only sixty you know .
not that old .
ive seen people quite a bit older .
i cant remember when , but im sure i have .
so when people look at me , they think to themselves , hmm , why , what a young damsel !
exactly .
finally !
it only took you ten years to actually learn something from me !
please .
and youre sixty seven , by the way .
eh , its rounded , heristo said .
you would round up , not down .
and you are a smart mouthed damsel , and i am a somewhat old man .
lets not argue nomenclature , the old man smiled .
larissas smile faded and she returned to staring out at the wilderness .
and so what is my young damsel thinking about , exactly ?
oh stuff .
stuff of the most epic quality , surely .
more like stuff of the most pointless quality .
and why would any of your thoughts be pointless im thinking about the past when its time for the future .
yes , but without hindsight , there is no foresight .
always look back , but do so with reason , with purpose .
do so to learn , so you can carry on better prepared to face the future .
heristo , i love you , but i dont want to talk philosophy right now .
yes , yes , quite understandable but youll forgive me if thats all a somewhat old man such as myself knows to discuss , heristo said , falling silent .
they looked out at the lands for quite some time .
the day had started out so beautifully , but now it was overcast , and larissa couldnt get the flashes of horror from the dream out of her head .
what troubles you , my dear ?
heristo said .
nothing much .
you dont hide your emotions very well , you know .
well larissa said .
heristo was trustworthy .
if anybody would understand , it would be him .
ive been having some pretty frightening dreams lately .
thats understandable .
dreams are products of the mind , and if your mind is in a state of distress , its natural for your dreams to be influenced .
its not that .
these dreams some of them are pretty foggy , but some of them are extremely vivid .
i see , hear , and feel exactly whats going on .
and my last one was it was just just horrific .
how so ?
heristo said .
well , there was this woman , and i she struggled to put the fading imagery to words .
i dont know , its hard to say .
im having a hard time remembering .
i just know that it was frightening .
im a historian , a philosopher , and a tutor on the side , but ive little knowledge of psychology .
im afraid i cant be of much help .
its okay , heristo .
i believe in logic and reason , but im also a humanist .
i can tell you this .
if you thought this dream was important , then it probably was .
i dont know if it was important , really .
it was just it was probably nothing .
maybe .
thats something you have to decide on your own .
the clouds moved slowly across the sky , white , gray nebulous giants flowing and morphing overhead .
so , larissa said .
what are you going to do now ?
me ?
oh , i dont know .
come on , you must have plans .
oh i have dreams , and then i have plans , two different things entirely .
which would you like to hear ?
both , naturally .
naturally .
well , i would love to travel the lands .
this region is so rich with history and lore , and people !
my god , the people of these lands i want to go to mon dragoria , tutor some of the nobility .
theyre dying for educated people there , and theyre certainly willing to pay .
i want to go to elgonia , experience the sight and sensation of the highlands for myself .
i want to see ionas i wouldnt even mind going to yenvo !
but theres nothing in yenvo .
who cares ?
it exists !
i want to see it !
heristo sighed and lowered himself onto the steps .
but even though im obviously only somewhat old , sometimes sometimes i feel just plain old .
my mind wanders these days , and ive got the most devilish pain in my back that just doesnt seem to ever quite go away .
dreams ?
no , it seems my day is done of course not heristo !
larissa lowered herself , sitting down next to the old man .
she was alarmed .
in all their years together , she had never heard him talk like this before .
youre my hero .
heristo chuckled sadly .
youre a very sweet girl , you know that ?
but youre not being objective here .
no , i heard some captain or general or other down in fort legacy is looking for a tutor for his children .
fort legacy !
are you joking !
that whole area is a war zone !
no formal wars .
it might get nasty , but theres little i can do .
work is hard to find for people like me outside the inner sanctum .
i will say , running into your family was a blessing .
i wish i could stay with you and help you with your education , but unfortunately i need to survive .
and my children , they have their own families now , but they struggle .
times are hard .
seems like thats what the people of every generation say but they need my help , and i must provide .
of course .
you do what you have to do , heristo .
i dont hold it against you or anything .
i know you dont .
but i feel so badly regardless .
well , dont .
youve given me a wonderful education .
i would be an idiot if it werent for you .
well , im still an idiot , but id be much , much worse if it werent for you .
child , you dont know the first thing about idiocy .
you will though , in time .
but my dear , enough about me .
i need to talk to you .
before you leave me for the last time .
please , heristo , dont make a big deal out of this .
i dont need a lecture .
youve lectured me enough my whole life , and im grateful for it , but now its time to move on .
no , not another lecture .
i promise .
this this is important , larissa .
i havent been entirely honest with you all these years .
what do you mean ?
larissa this is hard for me to say .
you know im not good at these things .
then dont say anything .
i know you love me , and i love you , and we need to go our separate ways , and thats that .
thats not it .
then what is it .
heristo closed his eyes , let out a heavy sigh , and continued .
larissa , ive tutored you and your siblings for nearly a decade now .
your sister never took any interest in her studies .
she was intelligent enough , but she had no commitment and her mind was always on other things .
and now look at her .
yes , now look at her , marrying a duke .
a duke ?
please .
a bullheaded idiot , more like .
she will be nothing more than a trophy wife , a political convenience .
this will be her life in summation .
and then there was your brother .
a promising lad , i will say .
i would even go so far as to call him a true scholar , at heart at least .
but he always denied himself .
he didnt find any sense of prestige or honor in the scholarly arts .
and now look at him .
yes , now look at him , an officer in the army .
and wheres the glory in that ?
he is a young man that ought to be brokering peace and sowing the seeds of understanding .
instead , hes a pillager , a killer , and a political tool .
this this is his life in summation .
and amelia and what about amelia ?
amelia stuck to her studies .
and in turn , she is growing up to be an intelligent young woman .
hopefully she will continue her search for knowledge and understanding , and , with some luck , she will make something of herself .
i have no regrets with her .
but ?
but you , larissa i will admit , the first few years with you were rather painful , but after cultivating your mind a bit , i soon realized that you were something very special .
oh please .
no , i am utterly serious about this .
you , unlike practically every young man or woman ive tutored or even come across , understood .
what do you mean ?
you understood .
when we talked about history , you understood its relevance .
when we discussed politics , you saw the loopholes and the problems in logic .
when we talked about wars you empathized .
i can not stress to you just how remarkable and , indeed , how important this is .
larissa didnt quite know what to say to this .
heristo had never spoken to her in this way before .
and , by the devil , you let me teach you ancient solarian !
do you have any idea how many people , let alone children , know ancient solarian ?
its not like its that hard , she mumbled .
not that hard ?
not that hard !
its diabolically difficult !
are you mad ?
but no , you arent mad .
merely humble .
and thats good .
better than cocky .
much better .
larissa , you have been like a daughter to me all these years , and i have taught you the best i could .
god knows ive tried as hard as i could .
i pushed myself to the very brink for you , but i fear it may not be enough .
please , i appreciate what youve done , and i love you for it .
you know i do .
i fear i fear you were not meant for this world .
larissa was at a loss .
she didnt know what to say to that .
you have understood so far , but soon you will go out there , into the wilderness , and you will understand for real .
you will know why your father built a home for his family out in the middle of nowhere , away from everyone , from everything .
you will know what it is really like out there .
and you will know how much your parents loved you by protecting you from all of it .
she could feel the tears in her eyes .
heristo and suddenly , a sense of urgency entered into him , an energy the likes of which she had never seen before .
you must not yield .
what ?
i say that i want to travel the world , but that is a dream .
not because i am unable .
but because the world i want to travel died long ago .
heristo , youre scaring me .
then i am succeeding in my goals .
you want to scare me ?
but why ?
because out there , said heristo , leaping to his feet and pointing into the wilderness , people do horrible things to each other , and theyll do horrible things to you too if you let them .
out there , its every man or woman for him or herself .
from now on , know that if you cant take care of yourself , no one else will .
you must survive .
you must not yield to the slings and the arrows .
larissa sat , stunned , her eyes wet .
i im sorry , i dont know what got into me heristo had resumed his prior demeanor .
please , forgive me .
ive had my own adventures , and i just want the best for you .
you know that .
its a dangerous world , and you need to be careful , for i wont be able to watch out for you anymore .
larissa stood up , drying her eyes .
ill make it , heristo , i promise .
thats all i wanted to hear , he said , hugging her .
now , you must continue your studies as well .
you must not waste your ability or your talent .
take these books .
they are ancient solarian texts .
keep them with you at all times .
promise ?
i promise .
dont throw them in with the rest of your collection .
they are very valuable , in more ways than one .
you are beautiful , my dear , i love you .
but now i must go .
it grows dark , and my coach awaits me .
goodbye .
she held the old man in her arms one last time and watched as he walked off into his coach , the driver signaling the horses into action .
in a moment , heristo was gone from her life forever .
she didnt know what to make of his words .
his heart had been heavy , and his warnings eerie and unsettling .
but it was heristo .
he was scared for her , as he should be .
she had been sheltered all her life , and now that she was going out into the world , he wanted her to watch out for herself .
and she would .
norborough couldnt be so bad , though .
aunt edith had said it was mostly middle class .
heristo had even called larissa beautiful .
she knew the truth though .
awkward and gawky , beautiful was hardly the word that came to mind .
oh heristo .
she would miss him all right .
and what the bloody hell was that all about ?
i really dont know , amelia .
i really dont know .
ill tell you what .
old heristos finally gone off his bloody rocker , thats what .
amelia never failed to bring a smile to larissas face .
she was always so outspoken .
originally larissas parents had taken her on as a maid , but she had basically become an adopted daughter instead .
it was a complicated metamorphosis , and yet it felt completely natural .
amelia was only a few years older than larissa , and the two were , for all intents and purposes , sisters .
larissa glanced over at her friend , a strange , confused scowl on amelias face , and larissa couldnt help but hug her .
oh , were going to have so much fun in norborough !
larissa said .
yeah , sure , amelia said in her customarily terse manner .
oh come on , dont tell me you arent the least bit excited .
well , i guess i am .
gets pretty boring up in the mountains all day , and all year for that matter .
seriously though .
what was all that with heristo ?
hes old .
and hes going to miss me .
yeah , i get that .
but when he said goodbye to me , all he said was , goodbye dear , have a wonderful life .
and you get this whole melodramatic speech .
i mean , i knew he liked you better , but thats just bloody shameless , that is right there .
jealous ?
of an old mans affection ?
psh , please .
just a bit bloody uncivil , thats all so what do you think about all of this ?
larissa said .
what do i think ?
i think were all going to hell in a bloody handbag , if you ask me .
why would we go to hell in a handbag , of all things ?
dont you think that would be a bit strange , to arrive at a place of eternal damnation in a piece of luggage ?
dunno .
i just say the sayins , dont make em up .
anyway , your aunt just loaded up an entire forests worth of books into the baggage cart , and i think were getting ready to go .
okay , amelia , just give me a minute .
yet another minute ?
havent you had enough minutes in this pine mountain isolation chamber ?
amelia fine .
fine fine fine .
and larissa was left alone once more at the house , her house , now assuredly for the last time .
she thought about going inside for a last look around , but there was nothing inside of all that much interest to her .
it was outside , in the courtyard , she realized , where the real magic of the house was .
the flowers in the garden often glowed in the sunlight , but they lay dim and drooping in the darkening skies .
the pillars were certainly not massive , but they had a certain epic quality to them that made her feel like she was living in a temple from the past rather than a modern estate .
it was a deeply classical affair , the entire house .
yet it felt so dim under the overcast sky .
she felt sad to leave it in such conditions .
it began to rain .
slowly at first , but it developed into a downpour , the sound of rumbling thunder in the distance mingling with the sound of water hitting the outcropping roof overhead .
a fine day to say goodbye , she supposed .
she watched as the water trickled down the roof and into the rain gutter , small pinwheels on the gutters turning under the flow of the water .
larissa smiled .
her father had ensured that , even in a storm , there would be some small joy .
she watched as the water reemerged at the bottom of the rain gutter and flowed ever so slowly down grooves in the stone driveway and into the garden .
it was only now , after all these years , when she was about to leave forever , that she began to truly appreciate her fathers fine craftsmanship .
her family had been in debt for a while now , though , and her fathers death had compounded it tenfold .
there was no way they could afford to keep the house .
they desperately needed the money , and her mother had auctioned it .
but it was time .
no more looking back .
she could see her aunt talking to the carriage driver as he readied the horses for the journey .
larissa walked over to them and let them know that she was ready .
she got into the carriage and , after double checking everything , the driver got the horses moving , the baggage cart trailing behind the carriage .
i almost forgot , larissa , amelia said .
forgot what ?
larissa said .
happy birthday .
larissa had forgotten herself .
its your birthday ?
aunt edith said .
what does that make you ?
sixteen ?
yeah , larissa said .
well happy birthday , edith said .
larissa tried not to look back , but as they exited the gate , she couldnt help it .
it was dark and dreary with the onset of night , and all she could make out was the soft movement of the pinwheels on the roof .
happy birthday indeed .
chapter 2 it was no longer just a dreary night to be traveling , but it had actually become quite depressing .
it rained on and off , and soon the lanterns at the front of the carriage were all that separated them from the darkness .
the driver was an amicable enough man with his scarf and his woolen coat , his flat cap and his missing tooth .
occasionally he would peek in through the window and make some small talk with edith , but other than that , the journey was a silent affair .
edith stared off into the cabin , lost in her thoughts , probably .
amelia snored .
and that left larissa on her own , staring out the window into the night wilderness .
by day , the woods seemed mystical and serene , but by night , they felt distinctly unsettling .
the pine trees encroached upon the road , their branches catching light from the lanterns , casting jagged , winding shadows that morphed with the passage of the carriage .
after thinking about it , larissa realized that she had never been in the woods at night .
whenever she had ventured outside the estate , she had always been accompanied by a servant , or somebody , and they had always returned before it got too late in the day .
she remembered reading about forests that changed color throughout the year , but in the mountains , the pines didnt change , always present , always the same .
except in the winter .
in the winter , the green , earthy giants morphed into white towers , their branches laden deep with snow .
it was beautiful , certainly unlike anything else , watching the still winter lands , undisturbed by anything but her footprints in the snow it was almost holy .
not now , though .
it was summer , though still fairly cold , and there was no snow .
and in the night , there was only the dark , nothing for larissa to look at .
she gave up on the window .
what to do ?
she was well acquainted with boredom .
they were good friends actually .
normally she would read a book when bored , preferably a fairytale , but there was not nearly enough light to read .
besides , the only books she had with her at the moment were the ones heristo had given her .
the ancient solarians may have been fascinating people , but their writing was dry , arcane , and absolutely cryptic certainly not books to fend off boredom with .
now her fairytales , those she enjoyed .
they were a guilty pleasure , she would admit , as they were completely unrealistic , but she enjoyed them nevertheless .
there was a valencian one where a princess is trapped in a castle by an evil , jealous stepmother , but her prince makes a harrowing journey across the kingdom , defeating the stepmothers evil plans and rescuing the princess from her fate .
and there was an elgonian one where the daughter of a mountain king is locked away in a dungeon by the crow king , wanting to make her his wife eventually .
but the mountain king calls upon the warrior son of a shepherd to seek her out and save her from her fate .
they might seem silly to others , but to her , immersed in these worlds , it was an escape that one simply needed when living ones life alone in the mountains .
ey , miss , the driver said .
larissa stared blankly at the roof of the carriage .
oy .
miss , the driver repeated .
larissa looked to her aunt , who appeared to have fallen asleep .
the driver was apparently talking to larissa .
yes ?
she said .
so you fixin to ead to norborough , are ya ?
uh , yes and on wha manner o business ?
well , nothing much , really oh come now .
mus be up to sumfin now , surely ?
i really cant say .
the driver seemed like a nice enough man , but his toothless grin made her a bit nervous .
aw righ .
aw righ needn be gettin upse on my accoun .
jus strange business , leavin a nice place like tha to go to norborough of all places .
larissa didnt know what to make of that .
she sat silently , looking at her hands .
after a few moments , she asked , what do you mean , exactly ?
i mean norborough it aint tha bad , no sir , but this place a yorn was a bloody manor !
jes don make much sense to me , is all .
to tell you the truth , it doesnt make much sense to me either , larissa said .
well , whateverin it be the case , ill make sure you ge righ where yore gettin to go .
larissa smiled .
he wasnt so bad .
kind of charming , really , in a rustic sort of way .
it was a slow journey .
the mountain roads in this part of the country were poorly maintained , not much more than dirt for the most part .
it was because so few people populated the area , though .
to the east lay tintown and the dominion mining operations , but over the last few decades , the veins had dried up , business had slowed down , and the north had resumed its solitude .
hopefully it could remain that way , though larissa knew it wouldnt be that way for long .
new veins would be discovered , operations would increase , and people would flock here once again .
she remembered having a conversation about this with heristo , years ago .
she tried to go to sleep , but she couldnt .
she was tired , but she had too much on her mind for it to drift away .
edith and amelia swayed with the rocking of the carriage going over the rough roads , deep in sleep .
edith was her mothers younger sister , but now that larissa got such a long look at her , the age in her aunt became apparent .
she was not old , exactly .
certainly younger than heristo .
but the developing creases in her soft face hinted at the toll the times were taking on her .
amelia , on the other hand , though she had always been something of a tomboy , looked positively radiant as the light of the lanterns outside gently caressed the edges of her face .
and at that moment , larissa felt truly grateful to them for being a part of her life .
they were truly beautiful people and she would be genuinely happy sharing part of her life with them , wherever fate would lead them .
and suddenly , larissa didnt feel afraid , or uncertain about anything anymore .
and with that , she felt able to finally get some rest .
larissa drowsed for a bit , her mind pleasantly blank and oblivious .
she didnt dream .
she didnt envision anything .
she slept lightly , but relatively peacefully , the images of strange glows blurring themselves against her eyelids .
after a while , though , as she creaked them open , she realized they werent imagined .
the carriage had slowed down , and indeed , soon stopped .
she opened up her eyes , quickly blinking away the drowsiness .
wha seems to be the problem , offissa ?
sir , dominion security forces .
wha the ell ?
i swear , dinna do it !
relax , just a routine inspection .
nothing to worry about .
i hope .
there were three men .
they were armored , though not heavily , and armed .
two carried torches and stood by , looking the carriage over .
the other one , the one who was talking , larissa could not quite make out his face oh thas all righ then , the driver said .
mind if i have a look inside ?
no , go righ ahead .
the mans face came into view .
it was hard to see in the low light , deep shadows warping his visage , but he looked like a man quite comfortable in his power .
he had short , military hair and a neatly trimmed goatee , all black with gray picking up bits of light here and there .
metal chains hung around his neck , and his breastplate shone dimly through the small window of the carriage .
he looked in , searching the dark cabin , and made larissa out in the shadows , looking at her directly .
their eyes met .
larissa felt strange , looking at him .
she felt like she was looking into the eyes of the crow king .
it had been an illustrated book .
the man stepped out of view .
everything seems to be in order .
sorry about the inconvenience .
even within the safety of the outer sanctum , we cant be too careful .
oh no , not a all .
lotsa scumbags out there .
carry on then .
the driver got the horses moving again , and the familiar bumping of the carriage could be felt once more .
the temporary stillness had been almost uncomfortable .
larissa turned and looked out the carriages back window .
she could just make out the three men over the baggage cart trailing behind .
they stood , the fiery torchlight making the metal of their armor and their helms glow .
then , suddenly , the torchlight disappeared , the men vanishing into the night .
that man had been weird , larissa thought .
amelia snored , slumped against the cabin with edith in sleep .
the man probably hadnt even noticed them .
what a poor policeman didnt even do a thorough inspection .
but then again , she was grateful .
she didnt have to haul out her things to be scrutinized in the middle of the night .
government inspections were commonplace in these parts , from what she understood .
mostly they were looking for people mining unregulated veins , or so heristo had explained .
the dominion government maintained an ironclad hold on the northern mining industry .
the trees passed by in shadow .
it had grown quite dark .
it must have been midnight now , the depths of night .
the witching hour , amelia used to say .
larissa almost wanted to wake her up so they could tell ghost stories to one another like when they were children .
the witching hour was the best time for ghost stories , she had always said .
larissa closed her eyes and tried to go to sleep , and yet she couldnt get the image of the crow king out her mind .
not the fairytale illustration , but the man .
there was something queer about him , but she couldnt quite place it .
the roads to the northwest were empty these days .
why would anyone want to patrol them ?
perhaps they had been following a suspect , or had received a tip .
it was not so unusual .
she tried to sleep .
driver ?
she said .
yea ?
you travel these roads often ?
yea , on occasion , why ?
is it unusual to get stopped around here ?
prolly not , he said .
larissa felt strangely relieved .
neer happen to me afore , tho .
something wasnt right .
she felt as if her blood had suddenly changed color .
the men .
they had put out their torches .
why had they put out their torches ?
it was nothing .
no reason .
yeah , no plausible reason .
she shook amelias knee .
she got a snore in return .
but she persisted .
eh ?
what ?
what the hell ?
amelia murmured sleepily .
what you doin to me ?
amelia , what ?
im tired .
sleep .
now she fell over .
larissa shook her again , this time more urgently .
amelia !
she whispered harshly .
hm ?
amelia , somethings not right here .
yeah , me being awake .
sleep .
now amelia !
larissa whispered harshly in her ear .
amelias eyes opened .
she looked baffled .
what ?
somethings not right thats awfully vague , you know we got stopped .
while you were asleep .
yeah , what of it ?
they were men , three of them .
with torches , and armor .
the three knights of maliporto ?
im not joking , okay !
okay so , what ?
i dont know , okay ?
well , youre awfully worried about nothing .
its pretty creepy out here in the woods at night .
its nothing to be worried about , she yawned .
this place is deserted , especially the roads .
once we get to northshire , youll feel better .
there will be actual civilization .
larissa sighed .
oh okay , youre right .
im sorry .
im just so stressed out ?
fatigued ?
nervous ?
probably all of that .
yeah , listen , everything will be fine , okay ?
i promise .
ill protect you , kay ?
always have , always will , so just chill , please .
and let me sleep .
now larissa laughed .
okay , okay .
hey amelia ?
yeah ?
i love you .
yeah , love you too .
sleep .
now after a few moments , she was snoring once again .
larissa took a hard look at herself .
she was being too paranoid .
it was heristo .
it must have been his words .
they set her on edge .
they were only a few hours from home , and already she was overreacting .
this had to stop .
if she was going to live in the real world , she would have to stop seeing ghosts everywhere .
the night seemed to close in on her .
it was darker than anything she had ever seen before , and it made her uneasy , but she fought it .
there was nothing to be afraid of .
no monsters from her fairytales lurking around the corner .
no spiders spinning their webs in wait .
nothing .
just empty , silent , dark wilderness as far as the eye could see , and a rocky dirt road with no end in sight .
she was very privileged to have lived the life she had , to be living the life she was living currently to have people to love her , care about her , protect her .
she was grateful for it , and she promised herself that she would be grateful for it for the rest of her life .
she would make her father proud of her , make sure that his investment in her would not be in vain .
she promised herself that she would live up to her parents expectations of her , that she would the world exploded .
lightning tore through the darkness .
thunder cracked across the sky , ripping into her eardrums .
it was a storm of bowel wrenching noise and terror , and then silence .
as she regained her senses , larissa looked out the window .
the trees were still there , and they were still passing her by .
nothing to worry about .
just a storm except when she looked out the front window , she saw the driver slumped over , his seat suddenly a shock of red .
wait what ?
she didnt understand .
the drivers head bounced as the horses ran on wildly , howling out in fear .
the red trickled down his face , his eyes blank , looking , yet seeing nothing .
and then he rolled off the side and was gone .
it was only then that she realized the carriage was moving horribly erratically .
she was bouncing up and down , and the horses were going mad .
she tried to hold on , but after a moment , she felt her head slam against the roof .
the carriage lurched , and with a horrible tearing sound , it tipped over and collapsed .
larissa tried to grab hold of anything to keep her down , but the carriage was on its side , being dragged by the horses in a hurricane of dust and sound .
it was as if the sky had fallen and left her in a gale with enough force to crack her bones like matchsticks .
the carriage slid and a horse groaned as it was knocked down .
and with a crash that tore the carriage in half , it stopped .
larissa coughed , gasping for air .
she tried wiping the dirt from her eyes .
it was useless .
someone was shaking her .
she could barely see .
larissa larissa coughed , heaving .
larissa , get up she could feel someone helping her up .
she tried walking .
her legs could barely support her weight .
her ears were ringing , her mind echoing the torrential sound of cacophony over and over again .
she couldnt even think .
and then she was on the ground after a few moments , she opened her eyes .
it was dark .
pitch black , even .
the cold wind rushed against her .
it was harsh .
the smell of trees and pine filled the air .
she was outside .
somewhere .
where ?
where was she ?
what had happened ?
she couldnt remember anything .
but there was a light .
more lights .
fire .
torches then horses .
men .
she tried to clear her eyes .
her vision was blurry .
she couldnt make anything out .
it looked like a wreckage .
some sort of accident .
a cart carriage .
it was a carriage .
the carriage .
they were going on a trip .
to norborough .
aunt edith .
amelia .
the night .
the carriage .
the driver .
the blood .
aunt edith .
amelia .
she shot up , scrambling to her legs .
the pain was everywhere , dull here , sharp there .
she leaned against the tree to stabilize herself .
she was bleeding .
she didnt know from where .
she was in the shadows of the forest , but she could see the road , see the men gathered by the wreckage in the torchlight .
the carriage the wheels they looked like they had been blown out .
the horses two lay dead nearby .
she could hear a frantic neighing sound .
then a crack of thunder .
then silence .
the men she had never seen men like this before .
they were darkly clad , and they carried short staffs .
there were three of them , she thought she counted .
no , four .
five .
they had dismounted their own horses .
they were talking .
she couldnt make out what they were saying .
slowly , she got closer until she could faintly make out a few words .
see in there ?
alive ?
one of them pulled something from the wreckage .
something not something , someone .
aunt edith !
larissa didnt know what to do .
she kneaded her hands , her breathing suddenly shallow and frantic .
what were they doing ?
what did they want ?
they dropped edith to the floor .
her dress was torn , and she was bleeding from a dozen wounds .
they were talking amongst themselves .
no , arguing .
they were arguing .
what were they arguing about ?
ediths body lay still .
these were not friends .
she didnt know what to do .
what should she do ?
what could she do ?
oh god , aunt edith but edith moved .
the men took notice immediately and laid her against the wreckage for support .
she was breathing .
she was okay .
covered in blood , but okay .
another horseman , hooded , with two more on either side of him .
they dismounted .
they talked .
the hooded man thrust out his arms angrily .
they were upset .
more than upset , furious .
but then the hooded man the hooded man turned .
and where his face ought to have been was a metallic mask so hideous and with a gaze so powerful that she felt her heart stop .
he was looking right at her .
he couldnt possibly see her .
she was in pitch black shadow , yards away in the forest !
he couldnt see her !
she wanted to scream , but she held her tongue .
the fear gripped her heart like a constrictor wrapping itself around its prey before the kill .
larissa wagner , the masked man said .
the sound of his voice was like a hammerblow to her chest .
she could feel the ice cold tongue of terror gliding itself across her innards , finding a way to burrow itself into her very soul .
my dear , i know youre out there .
now come out .
we wont hurt you , i promise .
weve been watching you .
you were attacked .
but theres nothing to fear now it was wrong , all wrong she wouldnt trust that man for anything .
everything about him made her mind recoil in fear .
just looking at him , she could hear herself thinking nothing but the word , run .
oh hell .
okay .
you want to play this game ?
fine , i can oblige .
how about this ?
how about if you dont come out here by the time i count to five , i have my men kill your aunt ?
doesnt that sound like fun ?
larissa quietly vomited as the men brought edith to her knees and one of them pointed something at her head .
lets get started right away .
one .
god , what was she supposed to do ?
dont do it larissa !
edith screeched .
shut her up .
someone slammed her across the face .
she nearly keeled over .
two .
oh god , she couldnt give herself up !
three .
but she couldnt let her die she wouldnt , she wouldnt !
four and so the pendulum swings he said , almost comically .
she would run out towards the men .
come what may , she had to .
im here .
but it wasnt her own voice .
as she opened her eyes , she found herself crouching , rooted in the same spot as she had been before .
so youre larissa wagner , the masked man said .
he motioned to his men , and they let edith slump over to the ground .
yeah , thats me all right .
i hope this isnt all for a date .
youre a tad too much on the ugly side for a pretty girl like myself .
oh ho !
a girl with a sense of humor !
i like that , the masked man said .
its hard to find people in my line of work who can truly appreciate a good jest , especially in dire circumstances not particularly unlike these .
enough theatrics , one of the men said .
you got the girl .
we want our due .
now my men here , the masked man continued , they dont appreciate what it means to have a good laugh at precisely the right moment .
this is stressful work , and without unwinding every now and then , one can become prone to mistakes .
and in my line of work , he grabbed her by the throat .
mistakes can be quite costly .
godammit , the other man said .
wheres our bloody due ?
you were paid in advance , the masked man said , turning to face him , still holding her throat in his gauntleted hand .
or do you forget all your contracts so easily ?
we were promised a bonus .
for exemplary work , at our discretion .
look at this !
this is not exemplary work !
this is a bloody mess !
but since im a generous man , ill meet you halfway .
he let her throat slip from his outstretched hand and she fell to the ground , gasping for air .
you can have her temporarily .
the men stood in silence .
are you serious ?
one of the men said after a while .
we are always serious , another of the hooded men said .
the men talked amongst themselves for a moment , then nodded .
they circled around her .
she lashed out violently and managed to hit one of the men square in the jaw .
he recovered and beat her face bloody .
two of the men held her down while another took his dues .
she screamed .
she fought .
they beat her till she stopped .
she fought again .
they beat her .
and after a while , she stopped fighting .
god , you arent done yet ?
the masked man said , returning to the scene .
finish up , for gods sake .
places to go .
things to do , he said , tapping his imaginary wristwatch .
dont you guys have a a village to pillage or something ?
you know , youre a real piece of work , one of the men said .
and youre a real something moaned .
hell , the hags still alive ?
one of the men said .
slowly and waveringly , edith turned her head as she lay on the ground and reached out her hand towards one of the men .
what do we do with her ?
the man she was reaching for asked .
well , id offer another bonus , the masked man said , but i assume youre all spent at this point , and i dont have time to wait for you bastards to recharge .
plus , seeing as little larissa here was so kind as to let me win our game earlier , we can have some mercy .
shes unexpected , but inconsequential .
you know what to do .
the man pulled something out , and there was a crack of thunder .
edith was on the ground .
something dark was pooling around her head .
she was still .
will you shut her up ?
for gods sake , man , ive got a splitting headache from all this business , the masked man said .
take her , bind her , you know the drill .
the bitch is bloody feisty .
i dont want any unexpected bruises on the trip back .
and for gods sake !
i said shut her the hell up !
he lashed out at her with his gauntleted hand , blood spattering across the torchlit road in cryptic patterns .
hell , now i have to clean the blood out of my gauntlet .
you know , youre sounding like my wife .
now i have to get the juice out of my britches !
the men laughed .
all right gentlemen , cleanup crew should be on its way , the masked man said .
thank you and good night .
the men dispersed .
the darkness returned .
aunt edith remained .
chapter 3 night lived on , slowly succumbing to the dim beginnings of morning .
the clouds parted , giving way to a solemn twilight gracing the solitude of the wilderness .
it seemed almost ethereal , a part of the world with no real place or time , existing only in imagination , in nightmare , in one feeble little girls mind .
there was nothing .
not her .
not the woods .
not the sky .
only nothing , infinite in its expanse , limitless in its reach , and the only mercy there was in the entirety of the universe .
but whatever mercy there was , there was only a drop of it , and it was always a luxury that was consumed quickly .
never something conserved rationally , but a spirit drank up as quickly as one could swallow in an effort to dull the senses , to mollify the mortal wounds that would eventually , inevitably consume the imbiber herself regardless .
it was living in limbo , a dilation of time , a postponement of departure , an embracing of the solace afforded by the mists .
but the mists are capricious .
so is time .
and so too is the reality in which it all exists .
the nothingness faded , giving way to the darkness .
to the night .
to the quiet wilderness slowly encroaching and receding with the swaying of the wind .
to the trees , those solid , numberless sentinels keeping watch over nothing in particular .
she found herself staring blankly into the void , her eyes as dead as the tree trunk upon which she sat .
she ought to have been dead .
she ought to have been someplace horrible .
but instead , she was nowhere , a place that cared nothing for her one way or another .
she could do as she pleased .
there was no one to watch .
no one to criticize .
and certainly no one to care .
she had to get up .
she had to get moving .
already she had wasted too much time .
but first first she had to turn around .
and that was something she just couldnt bear to do .
it wasnt in her .
she hadnt asked for any of it .
she would have gladly lived in a stone chamber in a dungeon somewhere for the rest of her life , waiting for a prince that would never come , if it meant that she would not have to turn around .
and yet , she could see the quiet beginnings of morning in the sky .
it would be light soon .
and then the shadows of the wilderness would not be able to protect her .
her face was blank .
her heart was blank .
and she would have given almost anything to keep it that way .
slowly , emotionlessly , she turned around .
the ruins lay upon the road as they had for hours , untouched by man or beast .
she got up , and found herself walking towards the ruin .
after a few moments , she was on the road .
it wasnt as bad as she thought it would be .
she thought there would be blood everywhere .
it was only here and there .
the carriage was a tangle of wood and metal .
the wheels were shattered .
the baggage cart must have been lost quite a ways back , as it was nowhere to be seen .
in the ruins of the carriage , a dead horse lay mangled , caught in the splintered wood and broken metal .
the corpse of another horse lay beside it , and another one lay nearby .
it had a hole in its head .
but as she looked around the wreckage , she saw aunt ediths pale face on its side in the mud , her eyes still open , a hole in her head as well .
she felt her stomach lurch .
she had nothing in her stomach to vomit but acid and bile , the foul taste of it traveling up her throat .
she felt her face contort , and she suddenly found it difficult to keep her balance .
turning her head away , she covered her mouth and whimpered .
aunt edith .
what what had she done ?
what had she done to deserve this ?
her white cheeks were covered in mud and blood .
there was a vague stench of dead flesh in the air .
a thick pool of blood had mingled with the mud near her head .
her body was soiled beyond recognition .
what was she to do ?
she had to she had to to bury her .
there was no time , though .
but she deserved that at least , not to be just left in the mud like that she had died for her .
but how would she dig ?
with her hands ?
and where ?
the forest was thick she must get away .
she must , before they came back .
the cleanup crew , the man the monster , had said .
what did that mean ?
she didnt know .
more people might be coming .
she must get away .
she had wasted too much time already .
but where was she to go ?
to the house ?
no .
there was nothing there , nobody .
where was the nearest town ?
god .
she didnt know .
she would have to follow the road .
but which way ?
which way had they come from ?
well , the front of the carriage was facing right , so she should go right ?
god .
aunt edith she choked .
she couldnt breathe .
what was she to do ?
she didnt know .
she just didnt know .
opening her eyes , she saw the blood spatters on the dirt road from that final blow .
it had been absolutely vicious .
the tears wouldnt stop flowing .
she couldnt bear to think about it .
she was feeling light headed .
if she thought anymore about it , she would collapse right then and there , a corpse along with her aunt .
but she noticed something .
a book , in the mud , by ediths body .
leather bound .
she picked it up .
one of the solarian texts .
it was in surprisingly good condition , at least from the outside .
cracking open the book , she dropped it immediately and gripped her head in her hands .
the pages were splattered with blood , unquestionably her aunts .
but she had promised .
after struggling for a few moments , she picked it up .
she had to find the other two .
they were around there somewhere .
they had to be .
why did they have to be ?
she didnt know .
they had to be .
because she had promised .
she dug in the wreckage .
after fighting with the debris of the carriage and cutting herself numerous times on the broken fragments , she managed to dig out another of the books .
it was soiled with mud , but she wiped it on her dress , looking for the other one .
after several minutes of scavenging , she turned up nothing .
where else could it be ?
she glanced to the horses .
oh god .
the book lay in a pool of horse blood .
she was repulsed at the thought of even touching it .
but what did it matter ?
she fished the book out and wiped it off on her dress as well .
and with the books in hand , she left .
the road ought to be easy enough to follow .
it was getting lighter , as the thick of the night was passing .
the road seemed to wind on endlessly , with nothing but tall pine trees on either side .
she tried to keep her mind off things it was surprisingly easy .
she just stared blankly , putting one foot in front of the other .
it hurt .
sometimes a lot .
her shoes were not meant for walking a muddy dirt road across the wilderness .
she soon took them off and discarded them , throwing them into the forest , the wilderness eating them up .
the stockings didnt help either .
she rolled them off her legs and discarded them as well .
it hurt her feet .
they grew muddy quickly , and cold , with stones lodging into the soles of her feet .
she found that her skirt restricted the movement of her legs .
she tried ripping them a bit , but found that she didnt have the strength the fabric was too tough , and she didnt want to travel in her underwear .
she pressed on .
after a while , though , she was left with little choice .
she unfastened her skirt and threw it to the wild .
it was only after several hours of walking that she realized it might be dangerous for a young , hunted girl in her underwear to be traveling in the middle of a backwoods road .
she followed the road from the relative safety of the bordering trees from then on .
chapter 4 ill kill you !
ill kill you , you son of a bitch !
you hear me ?
hey , ho there , calm down , old boy .
nothing to get your tonsil in a tizzle over .
you dont understand !
he cheated me out of twenty leos !
come on , what do you want me to do ?
go after him !
youre a godamn constable !
enforce the law !
so you want me to go after a guy who cheated you out of twenty leos in an illegal gambling enterprise that you yourself are running ?
you , my friend , are looking for some hired muscle , not a bloody man of the law .
gambling enterprise ?
its a godamn game of cards !
exactly what im saying !
its just a game of cards .
might be just a game of cards , but thats also just my godamn money hes stolen from me !
all right , i think ive had enough of this for one night .
see you bums next week .
see ya dalton .
yeah , later .
godammit dalton , you sissy faced gutless excuse for a lawman !
enforce the law !
shut the hell up , man .
seriously .
you in or out ?
dalton put on his favorite tweed coat , placed his favorite bowler cap on his head , waved to the gents at the bar and exited the dimly lit , smoky atmosphere of the tavern .
it was a chill night .
he wrapped his coat tighter about his chest , the little badge of the law shining quietly in the moonlight .
he let the clean night air into his lungs , breathing deeply .
the skies were clear and it was indeed a good night to be alive .
too bad he had nowhere to go .
and nobody to go nowhere with .
god , what a bloody dead end town .
northshire was nice enough , he supposed .
but bloody hell was it boring .
all the serials about lawmen painted a much more exciting picture than he found to be true .
he should have been a lawyer , like his mother always used to tell him .
it would still be boring as hell , but at least then he would be rich , and everyone knows that being bored and rich is infinitely better than being simply bored .
endless litigation and bureaucracy was a hallmark of the dominion , and the people who could capitalize on it all made out like bandits .
quite literally , actually .
as in , they stole .
a lot .
a whole hell of a lot .
in fact , it was probably coming out of his paycheck .
he walked along the quiet cobbled streets of the town .
street lanterns lit the way , their fires flickering here and there as the wind occasionally got through the cracks in the glass .
it was pretty quiet this time of night .
a few horse carts with unfinished business .
a few drunks wandering about .
a few sober men wishing they were drunk , as they couldnt afford the booze , but still not wanting to go home in order to avoid their wives .
no prostitutes .
no criminals .
no interesting characters .
just a bunch of boring people and dalton the county constable .
and perhaps that latter part was redundant .
hey man , watch where yore goin , a drunk said .
i didnt even touch you , dalton replied .
heeeey man , i said , the drunk paused , as if deep in thought .
after a few moments of undoubtedly deep philosophical meditation , he puked .
after wiping his mouth with his sleeve and nearly toppling over , he righted himself on a wall and said , i said watch where yore goin .
getting so a honest man cant cant get to a a street without runnin into a big big sh shover man .
you think youre a big big shover man ?
well how bout this , shover man ?
the drunk lurched over in an apparent attempt to shove dalton .
dalton stepped to the side slowly .
the drunk continued on , apparently not noticing that nothing was there in front of him .
he collapsed on the ground .
yore a quick one , ya are !
i bet ya think yore smart too , huh ?
a smart sh shover man ?
well dalton had started walking already , the rambling voice of the drunk echoing like ones bad conscience across the night .
screw it , he was going to bed .
nothing else to do .
tomorrow night he would stay home and read a book .
a serial , in fact .
a lawman serial .
yeah , just like old times his mother had told him to stop reading those things when he was a kid .
shouldve listened , but no didnt matter anymore , though , now did it ?
dalton ridge , constable .
no , dalton ridge , lawman .
more like dalton ridge , playmate of drunks .
after navigating the streets for half an hour , he found himself back at the familiar three story apartment building .
it was called the wiltshire suites .
dalton called it squalor central .
but it was home what the hell was he thinking ?
no it wasnt .
home was a place out in the country where it was always sunny and there was always an apple pie sitting on the window sill just waiting to be gorged upon .
squalor central was the real world .
and smelly .
so ungodly smelly he went in through the main door and climbed up the dingy wooden staircase .
one of these days , someone would step on it and the thing would collapse .
hopefully it wouldnt be him .
not because it would hurt , but because he would have to pay for it .
sticking his key in his door , he opened it or tried to .
he jiggled the key .
no dice .
godammit .
he kicked the door , and quickly recoiled in pain , cursing .
he jiggled the key some more .
after some increasingly furious jiggling , he managed to get the door open .
it was a mess , as usual .
it was funny how easily a one room apartment could get cluttered up with things of absolutely no worth .
the only things of value to him were his coat , his beloved bowler cap , and maybe his badge .
no , you know what ?
not his badge .
but his baton , or his pistol , maybe .
even though if he ever did shoot it , he would be lucky if it didnt backfire and shoot himself in the face .
well crafted firearms were hard to come by without the right connections , and a lot of money , even going through legitimate channels .
it didnt matter .
he took off his clothes and fell down on his bed .
he realized too late that this may have been a bad idea , though the spring protruding from the mattress and into his buttocks cleared the matter up right quickly .
after a good amount of cursing and rubbing , he laid back on his bed , slowly , and went to sleep .
he dreamed of women .
women everywhere , all telling him what a sexy lawman he was .
it didnt last long though .
there was a loud knocking .
dalton fell off his bed , onto the wooden boarding that passed for a floor .
it was painful .
dalton was pissed .
he stood up .
someone was knocking on his door frantically .
dalton tried to open it , but it was jammed .
back to the jiggling after a moment of frustration , he opened the door .
freddie ?
dalton said .
kid , what are you doing up this late ?
do you mr. dalton mr. dalton mr. dalton !
freddie , please , what do you want ?
mr. dalton mr. dalton !
mr. dalton put on some pants , please dalton hid behind the door .
freddie , dammit , what the hell do you want ?
theres been a a a a what ?
a a murder !
dalton stopped dead .
what ?
are you serious ?
where ?
the north road leading out of town north road theres a north road ?
where the hell does it go ?
theres nothing north of here but empty mines .
i dont know , but theres a murder .
i saw it .
you have to come !
freddie murders dont happen in northshire .
and if they do , its never my assignment .
im just a constable .
yeah , but theres nobody else i know who to tell to !
oh , i see .
so im a last resort .
please , mr. dalton .
im not lying !
i know i lied before , but not this time !
im serious !
its horrible !
all right , all right , freddie .
let me get dressed and we can go .
is it far ?
do i need to get a horse ?
no , its not far .
me and some friends were playing out there , and we saw it okay , one minute .
a murder .
a murder !
dalton ought to be horrified , he knew , but he couldnt help but be a little excited .
finally , some action , and this time he was going to get a piece of it .
he dressed , got his lantern and equipment , and came out quickly .
you still wearin that cheap coat and bowler cap mr. dalton ?
shut up freddy .
come on , show me where were going .
i mean , youre a lawman .
shouldnt you , ya know , at least look like you have some class ?
freddie , i make it a habit not to beat little children .
dont make me reassess my code of ethics .
freddie led him north .
dalton lived in the northern district of the town , so it wasnt a very long journey to the road in question .
as they walked along the roads , freddies small silhouette eagerly led him on , stopping only to pick up his flat cap when it dropped from his head .
the stone cobbled roads grew looser .
buildings became farther and farther apart .
after a while , they found themselves on the northern outskirts of northshire , well outside daltons jurisdiction .
they had their district law enforcement agency up in these parts , and , bureaucratically speaking , this murder ought to be reported to them .
but it was the middle of the night most of the officers would be home and asleep .
there would be a few men manning the night shifts , but those were usually the people on the lower end of the spectrum , the kids with no seniority who got stuck with the worst hours .
the outskirts were where the simpler folk lived , but they usually kept to themselves and didnt cause much trouble , certainly not in the middle of the night .
the night officers were , in all honesty , probably asleep .
besides , this had landed in daltons lap , and he wasnt going to pass up the opportunity .
so you and your friends play in the outskirts ?
yeah , freddie said .
why ?
less people .
if we play in town , people look at us funny and tell us to go away .
nobody bothers us in the outskirts .
i guess that makes sense .
the townsfolk are getting hit pretty hard with the economy the way it is and all , and theyre not so agreeable as they once were .
people on the outskirts well , theyre used to it .
its always hard living out here yeah , whatever .
they just dont look at us weird .
soon , the buildings became even more sporadic , and the roads devolved into paths of dirt and mud cut into the earth .
dalton followed freddie across the winding paths and , eventually , into the wilderness .
the night grew suddenly thick amongst the pressure of the trees on both sides of the road .
there were no more buildings .
northshire had ended .
and now , they were in lands where men rarely ventured .
the only thing to show for mans existence was the shoddy dirt road upon which they traveled , and it too was slowly but surely being taken back by the wild .
freddie , where the hell are you taking me ?
this is a no mans land .
its not too far from here .
dalton could only wonder where the road led .
you play out here ?
not normally .
but we were playing robbers and lawmen , and the robbers were making a getaway into the forest .
definitely a good place to hide .
this place was creepy .
these werent just any trees .
they were more primal , as if they were from a time well before his own .
and the forest was thick .
it must have been quite an effort to clear a path even for such a shoddy little dirt road .
there , over there !
freddie said .
where ?
dalton said .
over there !
i know over there .
where the hell is over there , though ?
there !
freddie pointed .
stay here , dalton said , pulling out his pistol .
he walked towards the spot where freddie had been pointing , his eyes keen for anything out of the usual .
the mud gave way under his shoes .
dalton had never been in this type of a situation before .
he had trained for it , sure , but dealing with a dead body in the middle of the woods ?
unheard of in northshire .
what would it be like , to see the victim of a murder ?
he saw a large form behind some of the trees , right where freddie had been pointing .
he stepped closer , closer godammit freddie !
its a rock !
what the hell are you trying to do to me here ?
oh , freddie said .
wrong spot i guess .
must be further down .
freddie !
what ?
its dark .
what do you expect ?
i dont remember where the exact spot was well , you better remember when we get to it .
this isnt a game , you know !
they traveled on in silence .
dalton was visibly agitated now .
what if it was just a bloody hoax ?
what if the little brats friends were waiting in the bushes to ambush dalton ?
if that was the case , he hoped he wouldnt panic and shoot one of the buggers .
that wouldnt look too good on his record .
manslaughter .
no , childslaughter , even better .
it wasnt dark enough to warrant lighting his lantern , at least while on the path .
if it wasnt for the partial moon , though , he wondered if they would have been able to see anything .
it would be a good place to dump a body , sure , but on the side of the road ?
even in an isolated place such is this , wouldnt it be better to dump it deeper in the forest ?
no one would be able to see it then , most likely .
the wolves would finish up the job , surely ?
then again , he didnt know .
he needed to find the body first before he could continue .
he didnt want to approach the crime with any misguided preconceptions .
freddie stopped .
okay , there !
you sure ?
dalton asked .
i dont know !
i think it was there all right , stay there .
time to try this again .
he pulled out his pistol once more and made his way past the road and into the trees .
sure enough , a body lay in the mud .
it was a woman .
even in the dim moonlight , it was apparent that she was covered in blood .
it made him uneasy .
he didnt think a body would affect him unduly like this .
guess he was getting soft .
he approached with trepidation .
so ?
is it the right spot ?
he heard freddie shout from the road .
shut up freddie , dalton said out of hand .
it was too dark to make out the features of the body .
he needed to get her out to the road so he could do an accurate inspection , but he didnt want to disturb the crime scene like an idiot amateur .
perhaps it would be better to get the local authorities ?
but no .
one couldnt just leave a body like this in the middle of the wilderness .
they might come back and find it chewed to bits .
that wouldnt do .
he ignited a match from his coat pocket and lit his lamp .
the wick slowly took on a warm glow , and the body soon came to light .
it wasnt a woman .
it was a girl .
in her underwear .
there were smears of dried blood caked across her body .
lots of cuts and bruises , but no mortal wounds .
maybe she was strangled ?
her throat looked to be fine he got closer .
hell , she was still breathing !
mr. dalton !
whats going on ?
shut up freddie !
dalton carefully picked the girl up and carried her over to the road where he laid her down .
freddies eyes lit up .
whoa is she dead ?
i said shut up freddie .
she was still breathing , definitely , but she looked to be in bad shape .
there were no major wounds .
he didnt know where all that blood had come from .
he couldnt blame freddie , though .
upon first glance , she could easily have been mistaken for a corpse by a passerby , even in daylight .
well .
now what was he supposed to do ?
it was obviously pretty unusual circumstances , but was this even a crime ?
or what ?
he took out a small bottle of whiskey from his coat and poured a little down her throat .
her eyelids sprang open , coughing the strong liquid out fitfully .
dalton was taken aback .
that didnt take long .
the girl kept coughing and spitting up the liquid .
after a few moments , she rolled over onto her side and , with a groan , collapsed in a heap .
dalton didnt quite know how to respond , other than by taking a sip of his whiskey .
may as well , it was already open .
so freddie said .
so dalton said .
so shes not dead ?
apparently not .
so freddie said .
so dalton said .
so its not a murder ?
no freddie , its not a murder .
man , that blows .
yeah , youre telling me i mean , what are you talking about ?
do you really want to see this poor girl dead ?
i guess not .
but man , this was no fun at all .
im going home .
dalton turned around and saw freddie running away towards town .
what a twat .
now what was he supposed to do with this girl ?
hey , miss , you all right ?
she didnt answer .
are you hurt or something ?
what happened to you ?
you looked like you were dead .
the girl didnt even turn .
she merely lay on the ground , shivering slightly .
ok , well , i cant carry you all the way to town .
so youre going to need to get up so i can take you in for questioning .
she made no movement .
seriously , you need to get up .
i need to take you in for questioning .
her disinterest was almost spiteful .
you look out of it .
maybe you need some more whiskey to wake you up .
she got up .
come on .
towns not too far away .
theres a police station in the outskirts real close .
im dalton , by the way , constable .
and you are ?
silence .
well arent we just a fountain of amicability , he said to himself .
she followed him with a limp , very slowly .
she looked like she was in a great deal of pain , but when dalton offered her some help , she refused it .
and she was utterly silent .
dalton could only imagine what kind of antics had led up to her playing the part of a corpse in the middle of nowhere .
kids these days , sheesh and she was shivering .
it was a cold night , and all she had on was a blouse , her underwear , and a whole lot of blood and mud .
he knew he should do something but it was his favorite coat .
he didnt want to get it muddy but the girl was freezing .
here , take my coat , he said .
the girl refused .
youre going to catch hypothermia if you dont keep warm .
take it .
she took it , allowing dalton to drape it over her shoulders .
take the lantern too .
hold it in your arms , close to your chest .
she did as she was told .
they walked in silence , dalton leading the way , the girl shambling along .
the trees soon thinned .
buildings came into view .
the moonlight became more prominent .
and the girl soon collapsed .
dalton heard her fall , and he turned around to see her shivering madly on the ground .
oh crap .
dalton rushed to her .
she was completely wigging out .
not good .
he was so stupid .
he had no idea how long she had been lying out there in the wilderness , at least long enough for freddie to find her , notify dalton , and come back .
undoubtedly longer .
okay , dont panic .
warmth .
the lantern .
no , fire .
needed something to burn .
wood .
there was no wood nearby .
well , plenty in the trees , but unless he wanted to set the forest aflame there was a house nearby .
he picked her up and made for the house .
she was a lot heavier than he thought , and he was a lot weaker than he last remembered .
it was tough going , but he reached the house , laid her down , and knocked on the door .
no one answered .
he knocked again .
still nothing .
he kicked the door , and cursed in pain .
when would he learn ?
the girl was shivering violently .
godammit !
there was a cart passing one of the roads nearby .
dalton screamed at it .
the cart stopped .
he ran up to the man driving it , a rather plain , rural looking man .
hey , buddy , this girl heres got hypothermia .
i need to take her someplace warm .
the man looked at the girl leaning against the house .
hunnerd leos .
dalton couldnt believe his ears .
a hundred leos ?
a hundred ?
are you mad ?
do you think i have that kind of money on me ?
i am a northshire constable , an extension of official dominion law !
i hereby commandeer this vehicle !
the man laughed .
i never bin too partial to the law .
but i always bin partial to leos .
hunnerd leos , specifically .
or somethin worth hunnerd leos .
now here was a man he would like to kill .
he took out his wallet .
a hundred leos .
a weeks worth of pay .
he counted out the bills .
guess he wouldnt be eating this week .
all i have is eighty seven .
the man thought it over .
i have nothing else in my wallet !
unless you want my hat too .
that cheap thing ?
don bother .
itll do .
hop on .
dalton rushed to pick the girl up .
with a heave , he got her onto the cart , and got on himself .
where you wan na go ?
the cart driver asked .
the hospital ?
it would be closed , this time of night .
the police station ?
please .
the cheapest , coldest place in the whole damn town .
the wiltshire suites .
a bit south , ill show you the way .
sounds fancy .
the cart had a couple stacks of hay , and a sleeping sheep .
dalton laid the girl next to the sheep and began piling some hay on her to try and keep her warm .
hey , wassa big idea ?
the cart driver said .
i just paid you eigthy seven leos .
i reserve the right to use your bloody hay if i want .
dalton sat back , giving occasional directions to the driver .
his horses smelled horrible , or maybe it was the driver , but dalton put up with it .
not like he had much choice .
the girl lay there with the sheep , covered in hay .
she was still shivering , but not as horribly .
she was a scrawny , feeble looking thing .
it was a surprise she wasnt dead already .
the northern part of the dominion was habitable , but bloody cold , even in summer , and especially at night .
what was a feeble thing like her doing wandering around the wilderness at night in her underwear ?
he could only guess .
hopefully her muteness would not persist .
he wanted some answers .
well , not really .
he wanted his weeks wages back , but , barring that , he would settle for some answers .
chapter 5 were all going to die you know .
yes , of course they will capture us , torture us do what they will .
they will hunt us down , every last one .
the optimism in this room knows no bounds but why ?
i dont understand this is not something to be understood , only accepted .
accepted ?
accept what ?
our inevitable demise ?
no , i can not accept it !
i shall not !
and i know there are still a few here who agree with me , whether they shall admit it or not .
you , sir , are out of your element .
you , sir , are a damnable villain !
you see things as if they are written in stone , written in some celestial tongue , carved upon the very heavens themselves !
we see things as they are .
you see things as you want to see them .
enough .
i for one am sick of this bickering .
the reality of the situation is that the net is fast closing in upon us .
our ranks thin .
soon , within the course of a century , we will be exterminated from the face of these lands .
what is done is done .
powerful as we may have been , there is nothing we can do to reverse the course of our history .
but now ?
now we do what we can .
the fantasy is over .
the dream is dead .
all in favor of dissolution ?
all opposed ?
the ayes have it .
may we receive whatever mercy we deserve .
the darkness unfolded in waves , and the haze slowly gave way .
she opened her eyes lethargically .
where was she ?
she couldnt remember anything .
was she dead ?
a spider crawled over the dim face of the wall in front of her .
she was in some sort of a room .
a dirty room .
there were random bits of junk everywhere .
in fact , there was barely any room at all , the place was so small , and the only light source was a single window which looked out at a brick wall of a building not five feet away .
yes , she was dead , and this was hell .
quaint .
she felt horrible .
the pain was everywhere and began radiating virulently at once , through her limbs , her chest , and her head , all with their own unique flavorings , though equal in intensity .
movement was out of the question .
she just lay on the iron slab which passed for a mattress , buried underneath a pile of ugly , smelly blankets .
she wished she could get away from the smell .
she was so hungry , and thirsty , and hot , but as she tried getting up , she groaned , her body thinking otherwise .
the theory had been proven movement was out of the question .
but where was she ?
did it matter ?
she supposed she was alive .
what could she remember ?
some man in a bowler cap what was his name ?
carlton ?
bolton ?
what did it matter ?
some foul tasting tonic god , why couldnt he have just let her lie there ?
the mud had been infinitely better than wherever she was now .
and then the tidal wave of memory hit her with such force and ferocity that she squealed out in terror .
there was a shuffling , and something fell to the floor .
cursing .
not something someone .
she hadnt even noticed him in the shadows .
as he stood up , he came into view in the dim morning light .
he looked exceedingly common , and unremarkable .
even the servants that had worked for her family had seemed more dignified .
so , the man said , picking himself up from the ground after having fallen from his chair .
youre awake then ?
and how are you feeling ?
she remained silent , simply looking at him from under the sheets .
are you feeling sick or something ?
you were in pretty bad shape last night , you know .
she remained wary .
she had no idea who this man was , what he wanted , and she was in no mood to trust anyone , though she supposed if he meant her any harm , he would have had plenty of opportunity to do so already .
well , i , uh , introduced myself last night , but i guess i should do so again , eh ?
im dalton , dalton ridge .
im a northshire constable .
youre safe here .
well , more or less , i guess .
the rats might get ya , but other than that or i guess the spiders , but other than that or i guess aw hell , it could be worse .
how about we leave it at that ?
he seemed kind of nice , she supposed .
queer , but nice , in a quaint sort of way .
he was a constable though .
she could tell him about what what happened she should , shouldnt she ?
sooo , whats your name then , miss ?
her name ?
what was her name ?
what was her name ?
okay , i see how it is .
little miss no talky , eh ?
well , the fact of the matter is , you were lying in the mud like a corpse in your undies in a part of the area where nobody has any business being , certainly not a young girl like yourself .
youre going to have to tell me something eventually , hopefully the truth , though i guess if you were a convincing enough liar you might be able to persuade me otherwise .
only dont give me any horsecrap that wouldnt even have a remote chance of being true .
thats what i have my serials for .
anyway , youre in pretty bad shape , im going to take you to the hospital .
the hospital ?
no !
she said .
dalton jumped .
what ?
why not ?
people were looking for her .
she would be easily found in a hospital .
at least in this slum , she was somewhat hidden .
godammit , girl .
i need to go down to the station and file a report .
you can come with me and rot in jail then .
he pulled off the blankets and tried hauling her up , but , after several squeals of pain from her , he gave up .
fine .
you can stay here , i guess .
just promise me not to run away .
i could get in serious trouble if i file a report and you disappear .
the bathrooms over there , if you need to puke .
there should be some bread in the cupboard , help yourself .
but when i get back , i expect some answers .
dalton put on his tweed coat and bowler cap , gathered his belongings , and , after struggling with the door for several moments , left .
what a queer fellow .
she had never encountered such a character before .
a constable .
she always thought they would be a bit more dashing .
this dalton fellow was a downright slob .
his apartment was disgusting .
and it smelled .
she grabbed the blankets and pulled them over her lazily , moaning .
she had such a headache .
she probably had a fever .
she was probably going to die there , in that dirty , smelly , filthy place .
how fitting .
what was she going to do now ?
what did it matter ?
she had such a headache .
it was insufferable .
she just laid there .
it was all she could do .
after a few hours in a delirious half sleeping state , she found that she could hold it no longer .
she gritted her teeth and forced herself to get up .
it took a tremendous amount of effort .
she collapsed , then gave it another try .
finally , she managed to sit up .
now the difficult part walking .
all she could manage was a shamble .
eventually , she made it to the bathroom , but upon opening the door , she cringed .
the stench was ungodly , but there was nothing else she could do .
fumbling for a match , she lit a candle and closed the door .
the toilet may well have been something out of her nightmares .
she figured she may as well take a shower .
the shower stall was a sordid affair , but in the dim light , it didnt much matter .
she turned the water knob , but nothing happened .
the water must be off .
figures .
she was about to go back out when she heard a quiet rumbling .
it was faint at first , but grew louder .
and suddenly , she yelped as the shower head erupted , letting loose a deluge of cold , murky liquid onto her face .
it wasnt just cold , it was freezing , and it was dirty , small solid bits of god knows what getting caught in her hair .
it was a shock to her system , and she felt her body recoil in disgust .
after a minute , she had had enough and shut it off .
at least the mud from the past few days was gone , though it had been replaced by a filmy , slimy sensation , and she couldnt say it was such a great trade off .
as she stepped out , though , she realized she didnt have a towel .
she looked around , and saw nothing .
that savage probably never even took any showers .
she didnt know what to do .
the candle went out .
and slowly , she felt the muscles of her face tighten , her lips tremble , and the tears begin to flow down her cheeks .
she didnt want to think about anything anymore , and she wouldnt .
but she couldnt stop herself from collapsing on the bathroom floor .
it was disgusting , but she didnt care she didnt have the strength to even stand .
she would die there , on that floor , in the middle of some slum , in the middle of nowhere , far from anybody that ever mattered to her or cared about her .
a spider crawled across the moldy tile , an inch from her eyelid .
she screeched and scrambled to her feet , almost slipping and falling .
she opened the door and rushed out of the room , grabbing a bed sheet and covering herself .
quietly , she dressed herself with what remained of her clothes , sat on the bed , and breathed .
at least she was awake now , the shower had done that much .
she felt so filthy .
she was no better off than some vagabond wandering the streets , begging for spare change .
she had no money , no friends , nothing .
she would die .
and soon at that , if she didnt eat something .
the man had told her there was some bread in the cupboard .
no doubt it would be lice ridden and moldy , but she could feel her stomach caving in , and there was no room for argument .
she opened up the cupboard and found some rather hard looking bread .
she took a loaf and tore off a hunk .
after some searching , she found a glass and held it under the faucet .
the water that dribbled out was of questionable coloration , but she was so thirsty .
as she could feel her legs beginning to give out , she hobbled back to bed and , putting her bread on the glass , and the glass on the nightstand , she allowed herself to fall into the bed .
yelping , she shot back up , rubbing her side where a spring from the mattress had bitten her .
slowly , she allowed herself to sink back into the bed , wrapping herself in the smelly blankets once more .
she began nibbling on the bread .
it was tough , though surprisingly not so bad .
it was edible , at least .
the water was queer , but she drank it anyway .
her headache was still there , but its intensity was subsiding .
she still felt like she had a fever .
what was she going to do ?
she looked at her arm .
there were cuts and bruises everywhere .
her skin looked sickly .
she was glad the man didnt have a mirror she must look like an absolute horror .
if her mother could see her now she wondered if her mother would come for her .
but why , when she already had a better daughter so near at hand ?
neither her mother nor keira would spare a thought for her .
and in turn , she wouldnt spare a thought for them .
she had other things to worry about .
in fact , she felt too sick to really worry about anything .
she knew she ought to be frightened , but by not thinking about things , by letting it all just slip away voluntarily into the void , she could focus on the now without losing her mind .
else , she surely would .
over the past day or two , she had managed to become numb enough not to feel anything , but now she was in danger of becoming overwhelmed .
she needed something to distract herself .
a book .
she needed a book .
her books .
where were her books ?
oh god .
the solarian texts .
where were they ?
she had them with her , she knew .
she had kept them close to her all along the road .
she knew she hadnt dropped them .
but she had collapsed and the man , he had taken her , and the books were probably in the mud where she had laid down !
she had to find them .
she couldnt lose them .
she had promised to keep them .
she had promised !
but what was she to do ?
she didnt know where she was , and she didnt know how to get to where the books lay .
there was nothing she could do , at the moment .
it was a horrible feeling , though .
those books had been all she had .
she tried not to think about it at all .
she tried hard , but to little avail .
she needed something to distract her .
there must be something in the room that would pry her mind away from her thoughts .
the room was cluttered with all sorts of garbage .
utensils , boxes , cards , papers , and all manner of assorted paraphernalia .
on the floor , though , she spotted some discarded , shabby looking books .
she reached over from the bed , trying to get a grip on them without leaving the sheets .
after almost falling over , she managed to nab one of the books .
it was cheaply bound and on the verge of falling apart , a far cry from the leather bound beauties she was used to .
logan t. walker , lawman the early days .
she flipped through the pages they were thin enough to see through .
it looked to be some sort of collection of serialized fiction .
the stories seemed quite old .
she opened up a page and , nibbling on her bread , began to read .
and so we meet again , walker !
the devilish brute cried out hideously .
black skull , you dastardly fiend !
youll never get away with this !
walker jerked out .
oh , on the contrary , walker !
you shall taste seething acid soon enough !
this is where your story ends , walker !
this is where your story ends !
black skull cackled like the madman that he was .
his voice was like hellfire burning deep within his throat , spewing out with his every word .
black skull turned , his dark cloak flowing like the wings of a murder of crows flying through the deep dark night , the darkness of their feathers blending into the darkness of the unfathomable depths of the midnight sky .
black skull had left , leaving walker hanging over the pit of acid , the threads of the rope holding him slowly , but surely , snapping away one by one .
it was obvious that time wasnt on his side .
sweat beaded upon his forehead , the vapors of the acid causing him to choke .
however , he began swinging , propelling his body back and forth , back and forth , going further and further with each thrust .
he looked to the top of the rope .
it would not last much longer .
finally , after timing it just right , with one final thrust , the rope snapped and he went careening off to the side , his face at one point barely an inch from the viciously burning acid .
walker rolled off to the side and looked for a way to cut the ropes .
nothing became apparent .
aha !
the acid !
he would use the villains own ingenuity against him !
he walked over to the edge of the pit and , carefully , dipped some of the rope into the green glowing pit .
after a few moments , he strained his muscles against the rope , his biceps bulging , and the ropes fell at his feet .
now then , villain black skull !
we shall see who has the last laugh !
aha !
he ran up the stone stairs of the dungeon .
it was truly a pit of darkness and despair , but walker made his way out , unflinching under its brutal atmosphere .
he made it up to the top and , going through a trap door , found himself at the top of the tower , with the shadowy silhouette of black skull against the eerie , ghostly glow of the moon , a veritable phantasm haunting the night atmosphere like a crow circling its prey before the bloody kill .
walker !
i knew you would escape all along !
oh , how i knew !
at every turn , you have foiled my plans !
at every corner , you have ambushed me , but no more !
for i have a special surprise waiting for you !
minions !
unveil walkers surprise !
out in the middle tower of the castle , protruding into the sky , a platform was raised , and on it , a woman was tied to an upright pillar .
volesia !
walker cried out in horror .
she struggled against her bonds , but to no avail .
however , another platform soon rose to the top of the tower and on it rested a large , wicked looking device .
as black skull gave the signal , the minions lowered the machine and began cranking , the drill coming to life , its wicked point swirling slowly forward , pointed at volesias chest .
she screamed as the vicious device approached closer and closer , its pointed tip threatening to violate her flesh .
and now i have you right where i want you walker !
black skull cackled madly .
surrender , or watch your precious girl as she is torn apart by my genius !
my genius !
ye gods , my genius !
walker knew that time wasnt on his side .
the drill would soon tear into volesias chest , and to waste such a voluptuous chest would be a most tragic waste indeed .
he looked around and saw that there were minions coming to him across the stone bridges .
they leaped at him .
walker dodged the punches like a dexterous animal , and countered the attacks with strikes of his own .
he turned and saw three more of the fiends coming at him , but walker recoiled and let loose a kick that knocked all three off the castle wall and into the moat of acid far below .
a pulley rope swung off to the side and walker saw his chance .
he leaped off the wall and grabbed onto the rope , the force propelling him forward .
for a moment , his body was silhouetted against the moon , a bird of prey preparing for the kill , and walker watched as the smile of black skull turned into a look of horror , as walkers foot tore into the fiends face .
walker landed on the platform and watched as black skull fell , screaming .
walker !
i will get you yet !
and then he fell into the acid .
volesia screamed , her voice crying out for aid , for mercy .
oh walker , hurry !
help !
please !
ahhhh !
walker knew that time was still not on his side .
indeed , it was even less on his side than before .
he leaped from the platform onto the other platform .
and from that platform he leaped onto the other platform .
from there , he leaped and found himself on top of the drill .
the minions were cranking away on it , but had not seen walker .
he quickly lowered himself from the drill and dropped onto the minions .
he kicked one of them in the face and he fell off the platform , into the acid .
walker then proceeded to kick the other minion , again , also into the acid far below .
yet the drill kept moving !
volesia screamed .
help !
walker !
the drill is still moving !
do something !
save me , please !
ahhhh !
the drill must have been saving energy somehow .
walker looked into the drill .
its gears were indeed moving .
he looked over to volesia .
the drill was about to pierce the flesh of her chest .
she screamed once more .
then , all of a sudden , walker looked into the drill and took out his handy pen , jamming it into the gears .
the drill wound to a halt .
volesia breathed a sigh of relief .
walker leaped to the platform where volesia was being held .
oh walker , you saved me !
i owe you my life !
you owe me more than that , walker said as he caressed her face .
he began slowly unraveling the ropes that held her to the post .
but she couldnt wait and grasped at him savagely , thrusting herself towards him .
he pressed his lips to hers and felt the curves of her hips , begging for him , the warm flesh of her body larissa threw the book into the garbage bin , right where it belonged .
she couldnt believe anyone could write such drivel .
she couldnt believe anyone would want to read such drivel !
time wasnt on his side well time wasnt on her side either , and she wasnt about to waste any more reading such stupidity .
she needed to get those solarian books back .
she had to .
abandoning them was not an option .
she didnt really know where she was , though , and she didnt remember exactly where she had collapsed .
she would have to get the plain fellow , that carlton to bring them back to her .
they were just too precious to lose .
larissa tried getting up .
she could feel the pain in her body get worse all over , but she forced herself up .
as she stood , however , a strange , flowing sensation traveled through her head , and she felt herself sit down once more .
she grasped her head and collapsed .
what was she to do ?
she felt herself lost , the void threatening to consume her .
the strands of thought seemed to flow aimlessly , driving towards nothing of value .
she was exhausted , and she wanted to go home .
back to the estate , back to her books .
she wanted it so badly that she would give everything she had to make it so , though she guessed that didnt amount to very much .
she grew sick of herself .
she was capable of no action that would accomplish anything , no thought of any value .
what was she to do then ?
she had no idea .
so this was what misery felt like .
a mud soaked mountainside , climbing upwards toward salvation in high heels .
what had she done to deserve this ?
she couldnt comprehend it .
she had spent her life in isolation .
perhaps she had taken her life for granted ?
isolation didnt seem so bad now .
yet there was no hope in trudging about in such thoughts .
she couldnt believe it .
she couldnt believe any of it .
none of it could be true .
it couldnt be true , could it ?
of course it couldnt .
it didnt make any sense .
none of it made any sense .
and if things made such little sense , they couldnt possibly be true .
fairy tales and fireflies , nothing more than fairy tales and fireflies dancing about in the mists of dream and nightmare .
she would wake now .
she would return to the waking world , for the land of dreams had taken a dislike to her .
she knew she was no longer welcome , so she would wake now and leave this place of filth and misery .
chapter 6 a nominal fee of approximately fifty leos .
i have insurance .
let me see your plan oh , all right then .
it will just be a co payment of forty four leos .
are you serious ?
wait now , is the patient under your plan ?
uh well in that case , it will revert to a full payment of fifty leos , payable before services are rendered .
i hate you .
i assure you , the feeling is mutual .
come , show me to these wiltshire suites .
dalton walked across the city streets , his face locked into an expression that was somewhere between a grimace and a scowl .
he led the doctor on , but didnt look at him , for if he did he would surely lose his job on grounds of assault and battery .
but oh such satisfying battery it would be !
he pulled down his bowler cap and forced himself onward , trying not to grind his teeth into dust .
after all , he didnt have any dental .
it took them a few more minutes to reach the apartment building .
as they climbed up the stairs , the doctors face contorted .
the aroma of your residence .
one might liken it to the sweat of boar .
its quite displeasing .
yeah ?
well so is your bill , but im still paying it , so shut your fat mouth and get moving .
bloody doctors .
always overcharging , stealing from desperate people in need with no other options .
always rolling in unclean money god , how he should have been a doctor .
instead , he was forking over cash for some damn mute girl .
was it worth it ?
of course it wasnt .
so why was he forking over all that cash at all ?
its not like he had to .
by rights he ought to let the dumb thing rot in the streets .
he opened the door to his apartment , gingerly , and entered .
the girl was lying on the bed like a corpse , dazed and delirious .
her eyes were open , but they didnt seem to be seeing anything at all , at least not in this reality .
well , she doesnt look too well , the doctor said .
dalton turned slowly and gave the doctor an icy look .
uh , right then , let me take a look at her .
the doctor opened his bag and took out his instruments .
so then , exactly what do you believe led to her current ailments ?
isnt that your job ?
well , if youd rather not say , then i suppose thats business between you and the girl dalton scowled .
hey !
what are you trying to say ?
i didnt do it !
sure , constable , the doctor said , pronouncing the title with incredulous distaste .
shed been lying in the cold for some time , dalton said .
hypothermia , most like .
i dont know about the cuts or bruises .
i swear !
well , she if hypothermia was the case , it has passed , the doctor said , running the back of his hand against her skin .
she has a bit of a fever , in fact .
the skin is quite warm to the touch .
why is she so spaced out ?
perhaps a side effect of the stench , the doctor said .
perhaps fatigue .
or stress .
or both .
as for the cuts , theyre only flesh wounds , nothing serious .
theyre closed up , so if they havent gotten infected yet , they wont probably wont , anyway .
make sure she gets plenty of fluids , plenty of rest , and plenty of fruits and vegetables .
all right , that will be fifty leos .
dalton paused .
thats it ?
he said .
yes , well , theres nothing much wrong with her .
i certainly hope you have the coin .
the reek of this residence made me forget to collect the sum beforehand .
i have it , i have it , dalton said .
if not , i will have to initiate legal proceedings , which , quite frankly , would be rather a bother , if i do say so i said i have it .
he dug about in one of his drawers .
after a few moments , he produced a small jar with a handful of coins and bills in it .
he started counting out the sum , but soon found the jar nearly empty .
here .
you leech , dalton muttered .
the doctor counted out the sum .
yes , well , in the medical profession , leeches are highly beneficial .
a pleasure doing business with you .
and now excuse me if i find the greater pleasure of some fresh air .
dalton hated doctors .
he hated lawyers too .
and clerks , annoying bastards .
and in fact , dalton hated a lot of people .
and that damn girl was quickly working her way onto the top of the list .
she lay there , flopped across the bed as if she had nothing better to do .
and maybe she didnt .
but it was his bed , and it was his money , and it was his money !
it was his money !
the bloody money !
he had worked months to save up some money , and within two days it had been blown .
and on what ?
he hadnt even accomplished anything .
the girl would probably have been better off dead anyway .
god damn that freddy a genuine herald of woe and misfortune that little booger had turned out to be .
hey girl , dalton said .
get up .
the girl stared on unheeding .
hey girl , dalton said again , his voice becoming a growl .
wakey wakey .
rise and shiney .
the girl just lay there .
he gritted his teeth .
dalton went to the sink and held a small pail under the faucet until the murky liquid reached the brim .
hey girl , dalton said , and thrust the pail in her direction .
a deluge of water erupted into the air and drenched the girl .
the doctor did say she should get plenty of fluids , after all .
the girl shot up in bed , wild eyed .
she looked at dalton with an evil glare that bespoke of violence on the mind .
well then , girl .
its time you gave me some answers .
who are you , and what were you doing lying in the middle of nowhere ?
the girl merely stared at him .
the blank look on her face was gone , replaced by one of dreadful intention .
she looked rather like a small mouse , with fur wet and mussed , having just waded through the filth .
but if she was a mouse , she certainly was an angry mouse .
girl , im going to ask you one last time .
who are you ?
tell me something .
anything , i dont care , but you need to tell me something .
i wasted a lot of money on your sorry little self , so you better tell me something , cause ive had just about enough of this crap .
dalton looked at the girl .
he imagined there were better looking waifs in wayland .
she was really such a sorry thing .
not in a way that implored sympathy , but in a way that was just pathetic .
all right , girl .
you dont want to play ?
fine then , get out of here .
the girl furrowed her brow , but remained silent .
i said , dalton said , as he grabbed her by the feet and dragged her out of bed .
he picked her up by the shoulders and forced her out the door .
she tripped and fell flat onto her face .
get out .
he slammed the door .
the door recoiled and opened again .
he slammed it once more , forcing the lock into place .
he turned around , sat down on his chair , and sighed in relief .
well that was that .
what a sorry episode that had been .
wouldnt see that in a logan t. walker serial , thats for sure .
logan walker never had to deal with this type of nonsense .
well , at least it was over with .
he was out a hundred fifty leos , but he would save up , he guessed .
but he had worked so hard to save that money , and now it was gone , and for nothing .
for nothing !
he didnt want to start saving all over again .
why did he have to ?
why him ?
why hadnt the girl just bloody croaked before he had found her ?
he would have just called for the mortician and been done with it , no skin off his back .
but no !
she had to be alive !
the little bitch had to be alive !
who the hell was he kidding .
he wasnt a hero .
he wasnt a selfless person .
he was just dalton ridge , county constable , playmate of drunks .
all he cared for now was a decent enough paycheck to buy bread , pay for rent , and maybe something left over for a drink and a game of cards .
he looked over the room .
what a mess .
it was worse than he remembered it .
the bed was in disarray .
there were all sorts of things splayed across the floor .
there were wet bedsheets bunched up in the corner of the room for some reason .
and one of his serials in the garbage bin !
he rushed to fish it out .
logan walker , what did you do to deserve such a fate ?
all in all , the room was pretty gross , but he didnt have much interest in cleaning it up .
what did it matter anyway ?
like anyone would care ?
certainly not him .
dalton took out a folded wad of paper from his tweed coat and laid it on the table .
he stared at it for a bit , then eventually unfolded it and stared at it some more .
it was the unfiled report for the girl .
he had filled it out and everything , but eventually he realized just how stupid girl found lying outside sounded on paper .
he was hopeless .
he went to the cupboard and tried to find something to eat that wasnt too moldy .
there was a loaf of bread , but one end of it was turning a peculiar darkish color .
he looked further , but there was nothing else but a couple rotting apples that had already lost all traces of red .
bread it is .
he took the loaf out and began eating it from the less discolored end .
sitting in the creaky chair , eating rotting bread , looking out the window at the brick wall of the building next door .
yep , this was the life , all right .
he didnt quite know what to do with himself at that point .
it was getting dark outside , and he had to go to work tomorrow .
he hadnt done much today , other than running around randomly , emptying out his wallet once more .
the captain would wonder what he had been up to , and dalton doubted he would like very much the answer .
great , he hadnt even thought of that .
dalton had even put his job in jeopardy .
further in jeopardy , really .
the district was looking to cut back , and its not like dalton had been accomplishing much these last few years .
it would be one less pension to worry about , surely .
godammit he needed some booze .
it was the only solution in times like these .
going back to the nearly empty jar , he overturned it and finished the job , the coins falling to the floor .
cursing , dalton scrounged about on his knees picking up the coins .
when he managed to collect them all , he got up and headed to the door .
one thing was certain in northshire there was always a bar nearby to get you drunk .
as he opened the door , however , his senses were confronted by a small shock of red on the floor outside his apartment .
it was only a small smear , but the blood was fresh and it glistened even under the dim light of the hallway windows .
oh hell .
now he had done it .
the blood trailed off down the hallway , but only barely .
where could she have gone ?
she couldnt have gotten far .
he checked the hallways .
one after another , he scrambled through them .
there was nothing .
he paced .
it was nothing .
the girl had cuts all over , one of them must have opened up , thats all .
she would be fine .
but then again , he had pretty much thrown her to the floor , and rather harshly at that .
he could have injured her .
oh , a fine constable you are , dalton ridge , further abusing already abused girls !
perhaps she had gone outside .
yeah , why would anyone want to stick around in a stinkhole like this ?
he hurried down the stairs .
they creaked uneasily .
he exited out the foyer and found himself on the streets of northshire once again , the gray sky above lording over the town , pelting it with rain .
now where could she have gone ?
he picked a street and followed it .
people walked here and there , all drifting god knows where .
dalton trotted along , trying to find an abused girl in her underwear .
that sounded bad , quite bad .
he guessed he couldnt ask anyone else for help , lest he become known as the lewd lawman .
wilbur from his department already held that title , and he would be rather upset at the contention .
a girl like that really shouldnt be that hard to find in a town like this .
youd think someone would notice .
dammit to hell , dalton .
if he was a battered young girl in her undies with no place to go , where would he go ?
to the whorehouses , make some real money for a change .
he shocked even himself with that thought he was more vulgar than he had even realized .
well , where would he go , really ?
not far .
dalton stopped , the people walking nearby looking at him queerly .
he turned around , and quickly retraced his steps , going back to the apartment building .
not far , not far .
where would she have gone ?
not far .
he began circling the building , looking into the various alleys and surrounding streets .
where was she ?
not far .
he passed a small passage , stopped , and walked backwards .
there in the corner sat a young , bruised , half naked girl , coiled up next to a wiltshire dumpster .
she stared off into the brick wall of the building , seemingly unaware of daltons presence .
he walked somberly towards her , his shoes sloshing through the puddles of muddy rainwater .
as he approached her , he saw that a small trickle of fresh blood flowed from her nose .
hey , there , dalton said .
im sorry about , uh , what happened back there .
rather uncivil .
he paused , but the girl didnt seem to react .
why dont you he reached out his arm towards her , but she recoiled quickly and began limping towards the end of the alley , her bare feet becoming muddied .
hey , hold on !
he said , following her .
wait a second , i said im sorry , all right ?
what do you expect ?
youre going to freeze to death out here in the rain .
come back inside .
if you die here , itll be a waste of all the money ive spent on you already .
the girl slumped down against a wall and huddled .
her teeth chattered .
she was such a weak little thing .
he couldnt imagine how she had even survived this long .
it appeared that she was trying to say something .
what was that ?
dalton said .
i i said , the rainwaters cleaner than what you poured on me earlier .
dalton paused .
snarky little thing , arent we ?
he laughed .
come on , get up .
but the girl didnt budge .
she glanced at dalton momentarily , then returned to looking at the wall .
it seemed the first time she had actually looked him in the eyes .
come on , what are you waiting for ?
you find the dumpsters more comfortable than my apartment ?
dont answer that .
but she continued to stare off into the stone .
she seemed content to huddle against the wall and let the rain take her .
they killed my aunt , she said , her breath a whisper .
dalton felt his brow ridge contort .
wait , what ?
and the carriage driver too .
and they took my sister .
dalton didnt quite know what to make of that .
chapter 7 nasty business .
nasty business it had all turned out to be .
and now here he was , stuck cleaning up someone elses mess .
and one monster of a mess it would become if they didnt do something about it soon .
things had been going so well .
such issues should have been expected , he supposed .
yet still , it was a rather unfortunate series of events , was it not ?
unfortunate indeed .
bloody unfortunate , to say the least .
he had to admit , he had missed the feeling of being alone , journeying through the countryside with only a mount as a companion .
he had fond memories of his travels in his youth .
the brisk mountain air , the sun upon his face , and nothing but rough , uninhabited country between his destinations .
he had felt so alive .
and after suffocating in halls and mansions for the past decade , he had thought that it would be liberating to be outdoors again .
but in the past , he had traveled burdened only by the pack upon his back .
now he was weighed down by much more , so much so that every time he managed to stand up , he considered it a small miracle .
and to be traveling at such a time , for such ends the days of youth were gone , nothing more than shadows whose only purpose was to remind him how free he had once been , and how much of a lackey he had recently become .
oh , fie .
he may have been unburdened in youth , but he had also been piss poor and , most of the time , piss drunk .
he balked .
freedom indeed .
at least he didnt have to worry about where his next meal was coming from it was easy to forget that .
besides , it was not as if he was that aged .
not quite yet , anyway .
the horse trotted along at a reasonable pace .
it was a good horse , the stable master had said .
and it most probably was .
but the mild stench , though palatable enough at first whiff , was insidious and crept up ones nostrils and into ones mind before long , wracking it and refusing to fully dissipate .
beastly thing .
he couldnt quite comprehend how he had ever actually enjoyed riding such a thing before .
indeed , so much for youth .
idiocy , more like .
besides , these were not the days of the young .
the young die so that the wise may ensure continued survival .
that is the way it is , and , indeed , that is the way it had been for some time .
and the young that manage to survive the first foray go on to fight again .
and again .
and sooner or later , fate gets the upper hand .
and even for those that survive physically , transitioning into the ranks of those who understand requires the death of their youth , spiritually , regardless .
and for good reason .
indeed , he would not trade his position now to go back any day , even if he were told his final day would be tomorrow .
such ruminations .
wasteful and irrelevant , yet time was something he had plenty of to waste , at the moment .
he looked out at the trees surrounding him .
dreadful things .
warped branches , soiled leaves , everywhere .
it was rather unpleasant .
the trees were like grotesque likenesses of tired old men , withered old women , the bark twisting and turning , resembling wracked faces of those who had weathered too many winters .
the musky stench of moist woodland , mingling with that of horse and beast left his face in a mild but perpetual cringe .
and who knew what manner of creature lurked in the open lands surrounding him , just waiting for him to let down his guard .
nasty business , surely , but no one had told him it would be so unpleasant .
he pulled back on the reins as the house came into view .
fine place to build a damned house , in the middle of nowhere .
sure , it may be harder to locate and farther out of the way to intrude upon , but it was still locatable , and if one wanted to intrude badly enough , one could always find a way .
as the horse sauntered through the arch and into the courtyard , a boy approached him .
take yer horse fer ya , sir !
fine , fine , he said .
simple stable boy .
some people might find such rustic folk charming .
he didnt .
they were merely fodder for the machinery , but to underestimate the importance of fodder would be a most dire misstep indeed , and so they were a nuisance for him to tolerate .
is the master of the house in ?
he asked .
not sure , sir , the stable boy said .
best ask around , sir , if you be lookin fer sech answers .
lookin , fer sech , answers .
pity he couldnt put the poor thing out of its misery right then and there .
but he was sure the thing had some part to play .
fodder always had a part to play , in the end .
he learned that a long time ago .
all right , lad .
exactly where might i find some informed individuals , then ?
the boy pointed towards the house .
so helpful .
thank you my lad .
he tossed the boy a quarter leo coin .
as if the creature was worth it .
but he was feeling generous today , so why not ?
life was short , and that stable boys was probably especially so .
the smell of flowers , how quaint .
flowers burst forth from all across the courtyard , a cornucopia of color and vibrancy .
it was disgusting .
he couldnt understand what people saw in such trivialities .
he plucked a marigold from a vase .
what purpose did such things serve ?
fragrance ?
beauty ?
beauty .
as if the common man even understood the meaning .
beauty was not in a color or a creation , but in an action an action that shapes and changes , that molds , carves , and , if necessary , breaks .
to break the will of something with your own , now that was beauty .
he clenched his fist and let the petals fall to the floor .
he shouldnt have done that .
now his glove would smell like flowers .
the estate was a grand sort of affair .
it must have taken many years to design , and many more to build .
such a shame , for such a well crafted estate to have its foundations planted firmly in the middle of nowhere .
no matter .
he had business to attend to .
he entered through the main doorway , finding himself in the foyer .
no one seemed to be around , so he followed the hallways in search of someone .
as he passed a doorway , he could hear some frustrated yelling .
he peeked in the door .
some old man stood pacing , yammering on .
blast it larissa , blast it all !
you just dont seem to get it , do you ?
you just dont understand !
a small girl sat in the corner , with a book in her hand that seemed to have been recently colored with paint .
these books are precious !
they are tomes of knowledge !
do you understand ?
god , why do i even bother ?
the man passed by , continuing through the hallway .
that old man seemed a queer sort .
he didnt want any dealings with that sort of character .
the man walked on , hearing the echoes of his shoes stepping upon the polished stone floor .
paintings of battles and times past hung upon the ornate walls .
busts of old generals , philosophers and statesmen rested upon pillars of marble , gazing sightlessly at passersby .
he couldnt recognize them , but felt strangely uncomfortable in their presence .
ye gods , was there anyone that lived in this place ?
the estate felt more like a museum , empty and desolate .
he saw someone walk across the end of the hallway .
he hurried after him .
hey !
hey , you !
hold on there a moment !
it was a boy , rather young , weak looking , slight of frame and build .
hi there , mlad .
sir , the boy said simply .
might i ask , is the master of the estate present ?
no sir , the boy replied .
damn you felix .
always have to make things so difficult , dont you ?
yes , well , might you have any inclination as to his present whereabouts ?
no sir , you think you could relay to him a message upon his return ?
he often goes away for months , but yes , i can .
tell him he is summoned and expected presently .
and exactly who are you , sir ?
unimportant , the man said .
hell know what i mean .
im sorry sir , but im not going to relay any message to him unless i know who its coming from .
a bit insolent , arent we ?
well , i shall impart my name if you impart yours , young man .
kaiden .
kaiden .
my name is monroe .
now do you think you have the wits to remember my message and my name , or do you require me to write it down for you ?
i can remember , the boy said .
i meant no offense , sir .
i just needed to remain abreast of the situation .
a rather dutiful young man .
no offense taken , im sure .
now kaiden , would you be felixs son ?
i would be .
and how old are you , lad ?
fourteen , sir .
how old are you ?
monroe laughed .
old enough not to be considered young , and young enough not to be considered old .
or so i like to believe , anyway .
so how do you like things here , kaiden , mlad ?
what ?
here ?
its all right , i guess you guess ?
this is a fine estate , surely one that suits your needs ?
out in the mountains , clean , fresh air yeah , i guess .
its just a bit a bit what ?
well , boring , sir , if you dont mind .
i dont mind at all .
why should i mind ?
i suppose i could understand that sentiment , though .
living out here in the middle of nowhere , nothing to do but converse with stone generals .
yeah , exactly , mr. monroe .
all i do all day is wander around and try to avoid my pestering tutor .
that old man i saw earlier ?
only one old man hereabouts .
monroe took off his top hat .
well , kaiden , mlad .
you seem a strong sort .
strong in spirit , at the least .
if there comes a time when you tire unduly of the trivialities of existence here , you might consider enlisting in the dominion military when youre older .
the military ?
you say that as if i proposed joining a circus .
i just , well i never really thought about it .
well perhaps you should , mlad .
they train you , make you strong as steel .
stronger !
get to travel , see the world .
oh its an adventure , mlad .
my years spent as a soldier were some of the ones i remember most fondly .
and ill tell you what .
id probably still be slight like yourself without the experience .
really ?
oh yes , really .
only way men like us can get ourselves in the history books .
who knows , maybe someday your descendants will have a marble bust of you in their halls .
kaiden looked to the busts down the hallway .
id certainly be interested , sir , but my parents would never go for it .
hmm .
ill tell you what .
when youre sixteen , come find me in the inner dominion and well get you squared away .
but how will i get there ?
oh , a resourceful lad like yourself should have no trouble .
when one has a problem , and no solutions are apparent , one shapes a solution for himself .
now then , i really must be going .
youll remember my message , wont you ?
hes summoned and expected , says mr. monroe .
good enough , lad .
farewell .
the boy was scrawny as a stick and weak like a young girl .
but hed be straightened out soon enough .
wanderlust the fixation and the bane of the young .
the boy would play his part , whether in service or in death , probably one after the other .
no matter .
monroe had other things to worry about .
like felix .
that man , despite all his usefulness and capability , was as royal a pain as one could get .
to think , monroe had ridden all this way for naught .
inconvenient .
most inconvenient .
monroe found his way through the empty halls and exited out the doorway into the courtyard .
he placed his top hat on his head and snapped his fingers at the stable boy .
come on , come on , monroe said .
he hoped the boy would suffer a most cruel and unnatural death .
it would be fitting , for one so useless as he deserved nothing better .
one must earn better .
one must always earn better .
monroe mounted his horse and rode back out the way he had entered so recently .
now he had to ride through the desolate forest path all the way back to that bloody godforsaken town .
he could feel himself becoming irate .
to think , all his years of service , and what was he now ?
a messenger .
an errand boy .
they would hear about this .
they would learn to treat their allies with more respect .
and here we go again .
the woods , stretching out by the dirt roadway , the arms of trees reaching out , trying to strangle him , treacherous fiends that they were .
when it was all over , he would come back and burn these woods to the ground .
a fitting ending to such a naturalistic wasteland .
what purpose did such trees hold ?
none .
nothing more than obstacles on the path of progress , fuel for the flames of the machine .
the journey back home would be long .
most inconvenient , most vexing .
he was tired of biding his time .
he had waited years .
they had waited centuries .
it was time , wasnt it ?
soon enough , soon enough , they would always say .
it was always soon , but never now .
well , someday , sooner or later , something would just happen .
and would they be prepared for something outside the scope of their precious plans ?
but no , no one listened to monroe .
monroe the impatient .
monroe the fool .
bloody hell .
he thought of the work he had left to do .
so much work , so many priorities pulling at him in different directions .
and now , to be sent out here as an errand boy , it was almost more than he could take .
and yet what was he to do about it ?
the trees .
the bloody , blasted trees .
what secrets were they hiding ?
what treacherous murder lay in store for him ?
they plotted against him .
no matter .
he would burn them .
ash occludes nothing , after all .
well , perhaps in large enough quantities .
and yet , for all his efforts , for all his work something whistled through the air .
a thud .
a piercing sensation , a puncturing of flesh .
again .
the horse reared .
he fell off , collapsing in the mud of the road .
he tried breathing , and he rasped as he tried desperately to fill his lungs .
quietly , shadows appeared , hovering over him .
well look at this fine specimen , one of the men said .
looks like a prize trophy kill , the other said .
you should gut it and stuff it .
put it on your wall .
would make for great tea time conversation .
maybe , but its a rather ugly sort though , dont you think ?
perhaps youre right , my friend .
perhaps we should just put it out of its misery instead .
monroe grasped at his chest .
he could feel his fingers becoming slick .
two shafts protruded from his chest .
his entire body was going numb .
now then .
weve a few questions for you .
who are your paragons ?
monroe clenched his teeth , gasping .
no use .
this ones done with .
yeah , agreed .
put the thing out of its misery .
no .
let him rot .
he deserves whatever misery he can get .
the men turned and left .
monroe could hear them talking to each other .
they walked down the road leisurely , quite pleased with themselves .
they had done well that day .
they had gotten someone that matters for once .
yet as they were about to disappear into the woods , two shots rang out , the sound reverberating against the sky and the trees .
upon the road stood monroe , his suit bloody , the shafts jutting out from his body .
he grimaced and pulled one arrow out , tearing his own flesh .
the blood poured out , then slowed , then stopped .
he pulled the other arrow out .
once more , the blood flowed , then stopped .
he threw the arrows down and returned his pistol to his holster .
on the road lay two bodies , each man shot through the head precisely .
they lay there like bags of meat , flesh being drained of its fluids .
sifter buffoons .
didnt they realize their war was over ?
as he dragged the bodies into the woods , he wondered if those trees would keep his secrets .
of course they would .
its not as if they were partial .
perhaps he wouldnt burn them after all .
yet it seemed the sound of his gunshots had offended them .
it had been a deafening sound indeed .
perhaps he ought to get a quieter weapon .
perhaps not though .
it was a powerful sound , the sound of action , and he quite liked it .
but as the blasts continued ringing out in his mind , it came to him that this was not simply the sound of action .
it was the sound of wrath .
and he rather liked that even better .
we combed the road and the surrounding forests .
and ?
no trace .
however , we did follow the road north , and there is a rather large estate it leads to , up in the mountains .
really ?
people live up there ?
why ?
couldnt say .
but there is this one thing , though .
yeah ?
its been burnt to the ground .
and recently .
larissa didnt understand .
what ?
well , missy , the captain said .
looks like lauren just corroborated a part of your story .
be glad , otherwise we could have charged you with perjury .
oh , go easy , lauren said .
shes just a girl .
her storys probably hogwash , but obviously something fishy happened here .
yeah , and whos to say this little girl isnt the cause of it , hmm ?
on another note , though , those forest roads are lonely and empty .
so why in the blazes did you send wilbur with me to check it out ?
oh please , you enjoy my company !
dont run from the truth , my pretty little dear .
you call me your pretty little dear one more time and ill introduce your face to the business end of my baton .
cold and empty were the two words that came to mind when describing the station , and as the officers argued , larissa looked on , dumbfounded .
excuse me , she said , but the officers didnt seem to notice .
she could feel her palms growing damp with perspiration .
excuse me .
the captain browsed through some papers .
lauren cursed with indignation .
wilbur chortled .
will you tell me what happened !
larissa shouted .
the officers stopped and stared at larissa .
what do you mean , what happened ?
lauren said .
the house larissa said .
what did you say about it ?
oh , lauren said .
it was burnt down .
all we saw were burnt frames and toppled stonework .
rather odd , really .
the place was wrecked .
whats so odd about that ?
the captain asked .
well , there was a lot of masonry .
its not as if a fire could topple a solid stone column .
looked more like a cyclone had torn through the place .
hm .
odd indeed , the captain said .
did you investigate ?
insofar as we could , wilbur said .
it was growing rather dark , and we couldnt see much .
wheres dalton ?
the captain said .
oh , hes still nosing about the ruins of the house , wilbur said .
he should be back shortly .
now lauren , my dearest but larissa had stopped listening .
all she could think about was the image of her home in flames .
her bedroom , the courtyard flush with marigolds , the library , the books , all aflame , a beacon blazing through the night , fueled on her memories and her hopes .
and burning pinwheels , spinning amidst the winds of the flames , momentarily , fading into ash soon thereafter .
the people around her mouthed words , talking in some strange language .
she couldnt understand , and she didnt want to .
what was there to understand ?
she felt as if someone had burnt and charred her heart to a crisp , leaving a desolate void in its place , a barren wasteland that ate up her innards .
soon it would eat away everything , and there would be nothing left of her but a hollow husk of skin and flesh , a dried shell that would wither away with the winds .
either that or it would burst forth from her chest in violence and take her as she struggled , tossing and turning against the force and the fury , all in vain .
this was not a force that could be defied .
this was a force that consumed , and consumed absolutely .
yet as the fiery image of her home began to fade , a knot of deep seated dread began to form in the pit of her chest .
ever since she had left , it felt as if she had been walking the course of a dream , a drama of nebulous images and words , floating across her mind , dancing across her fingertips like mischievous fireflies , impossible to catch , and , ultimately , formulating to nothing tangible .
yet after reeling from the impact of the inferno , through the dissipating daze of the flame , she found herself flat on her face , her lips pressed against the cold floor of some place strange .
this was not home .
there was no home , not anymore .
the misty realm of dream and displacement would welcome her any time she wished , and would keep her forever if she desired .
yet it would not protect her from the nightmare of the world her body was bound to , and it would not protect her from the blades of those that hunted her .
this place was not home .
and this place was not safe .
she shot up and ran .
run , just run .
it didnt matter where to .
she just knew she had to run .
her bare feet pressed against the hard floor as she stumbled her way to the exit , or what she thought was the exit .
a door confronted her .
she stopped and tried to pull it open .
it didnt budge .
she struggled , frantically , until she felt hands on her shoulders pull her away .
whoa , easy there !
calm down !
larissa turned on the person detaining her and flailed out .
she felt her nails cut into flesh .
there was a squeal , and larissa found herself flat against the floor once more .
she felt a burning sensation begin to course through the side of her face .
it stung , and when she tried to touch it , it stung even more .
you idiot !
you just slapped a girl , you fatters !
i think she gouged my eyes out , the bloody tart !
she scratched you in the face , you bloody coward !
here , dearie , let me help you up .
larissa felt someone grab her by the hand .
she was led back to the chair , and promptly collapsed into it once again .
it was only then that she realized the muscles in her face were contorted strangely , and an unusual squeaking was coming from her throat .
she breathed , haltingly , and wiped her eyes .
there was nowhere to run .
she was going to die .
she didnt care .
they could kill her .
she probably deserved it anyway .
what was there left to do ?
nothing .
they would kill her .
they could kill her .
it didnt matter .
there there , dearie , lauren said .
come now , its not so bad , is it ?
wilbur didnt hurt you so bad , did he ?
hes just a fat , nasty fatters , isnt he ?
she said , glancing sharply to the large man nearby .
she scratched me !
she had it coming , wilbur said , rubbing his roundish face .
what are you idiots doing ?
the captain said .
im trying to eat here , without you monkeys mucking about , bunch of heathen scum .
heathen scum ?
what are you even talking about ?
lauren said .
im talking about my damn dinner , which should be in my damn belly , right damn now .
but here you monkeys are , beating little children and god knows what else , and what am i supposed to do about that , now , i ask you ?
oh , i dont know , lauren said .
does it really matter ?
as if you ever really do anything around here , ever ?
oh dont criticize me !
im the bloody captain , i am !
i didnt get here for nothin , you know !
yeah ?
well , i beg to differ , lauren said .
and since when did i give two hoots about what you think , little missy !
bad enough they make me hire a girl , but it just has to be a sassy little little what ?
lauren said , her teeth locked .
go on , finish that sentence why dont you ?
enough .
exactly what happened now ?
she scratched me !
wilbur said .
the girls just out of sorts , lauren said .
i think that was obvious upon hearing her wild little story .
assassination and intrigue , oh me oh my , every little girls fantasy , isnt it ?
i dont understand why daltons so interested in her .
hes usually a fairly level headed lad , that dalton .
one foot in front of the next , one day after the other , thats dalton in a nutshell .
then he has to bring this little thing to our doorstep .
not even our jurisdiction !
north of northshire we leave to the dominion security forces .
just ship the girl off to them , if her story even has any truth to it .
makes sense to me , capn , wilbur said .
course , i would have just let the thing rot where she lay .
who knows what kind of diseases she coulda been carryin .
daltons a damn fool for wasting his time on such a thing .
my knights in shining armor , lauren muttered .
i heard that , the captain said .
you know , my fathers great uncles cousin was a bonafide dominion knight .
inducted with honors and everything .
and you are a bonafide fatters , lauren said .
wouldnt he be proud ?
enough !
the captain shouted , the station growing suddenly silent in response .
im going to eat .
the captain walked away , brushing his whiskers , while wilbur sulked off , still rubbing his face .
lauren sat down beside larissa .
dont mind them .
theyre idiots .
im sure youre just a poor girl in trouble , looking for some money or something to get you by .
arent we all ?
but thats no cause to go making up these kinds of stories .
people around these parts dont appreciate it , okay ?
now heres a leo , she said , pressing a coin into her hand .
go get yourself some food or something , and please , just go home .
lauren got up and left .
larissa stared at the coin in her hand .
it was dull metal , perfectly circular , imprinted with all sorts of strange symbols and letters .
what an odd thing , this coin it was the first time she had seen such a thing .
she gripped it and hurled it ferociously .
it left her hand and hit a wall somewhere .
she heard some yammering from the other rooms , but no one came to inspect .
a silly coin .
such a worthless thing .
she wondered if she could buy back her home with enough of them .
yet she got up and went in search of it in the direction she had chucked the thing .
she probably wouldnt be able to buy back her home , but maybe she could buy some bread .
she was hungry .
as she searched for the coin , she thought about what she would do next .
she could die , but she didnt know how people went about that sort of thing .
and short of dying , she would have to do something .
lie out on the street then , perhaps ?
she might get trampled by a horse , though .
that wouldnt be very pleasant .
what else could she do ?
she could find that coin and buy some bread .
but where do people buy bread ?
she would have to figure it out after finding the coin .
she looked around the desks , near the chairs .
she had thrown it at a wall , she thought .
but which wall ?
she didnt even know .
this was hopeless .
this was stupid .
what was she even doing ?
she wanted to scream , but she knew if she did , she would probably incur the wrath of the captain .
he was eating , of course .
couldnt disturb his eating .
the savage .
aha !
there it was , near the end of the hallway .
she walked towards it and picked it up , and moved to put it in her pocket , but realized that she didnt have any pockets .
she regretted very much discarding her dress in the woods .
the woods she couldnt think about that anymore .
she just held the coin in her hand .
she would have to keep track of it .
larissa heard the door open .
she turned and saw someone enter .
he wore a dusty old bowler cap and a cheap tweed coat .
how appropriate .
dalton glanced around .
where is everybody ?
eating , larissa said , nodding .
dalton twitched .
idiots .
listen , miss i dont know if anybody told you this yet , but your house is burnt down .
i know , larissa said .
she still hadnt told him her name .
and she didnt intend to .
im real sorry .
i investigated as best as i could , but but what ?
i dont know , dalton said , with a sigh .
he sat down .
i dont know what happened .
larissa merely stared at the floor .
you have to understand , things like this they just dont happened around here , dalton said .
your story , it sounds ridiculous to our ears .
i mean , i believe you as best as i can , but you dont believe me , larissa said .
no , its not that .
i mean , obviously something happened here .
that house a lot of it was good masonry , solidly built stuff .
its not just going to burn down randomly .
and it happened not long ago .
i was there only a few days ago , larissa said , choking , anger creeping into her words .
i know , i know i tried to do the best i could .
i really did .
but im telling you , im not cut out for this stuff .
youre better off getting some more serious folk involved , like the dominion security forces .
will they believe me ?
she asked .
dalton lowered his gaze .
probably not .
honestly , i really dont know what to do here .
im sorry , but i think youre just out of luck on this one .
murder .
rape .
walk it off .
out of luck didnt she know it .
okay , then im going .
she made to leave .
wait , where are you going ?
i dont know .
hold on , you can stay at my place for a while , if you want .
no .
youll freeze , at least let me get you some clothes or something .
youve spent enough money on me , thanks .
wait wait .
sit down .
just sit , okay ?
let me talk to the captain .
promise me you wont run away ?
fine , larissa said , sitting down once more .
all right , ill be right back .
this dalton fellow seemed a bit of an oaf , but at least he was a decent sort of fellow , not like the rest of them .
she supposed it was the best she could ask for in her situation .
she wanted to leave , to go outside , to just be out in the night air , and not trapped within the walls of the station , but she didnt have much clothing , and she would catch cold rather quickly .
she was beginning to feel a bit woozy as well , a headache starting to encroach upon her clouded mind .
if she were to go outside , she would have a hard time getting anywhere .
there was nothing for her left to do but wait .
after a few moments , dalton came back in .
i talked to the captain .
he said you could stay here at the station for a few days , at least while we do some more investigations .
we might not have any answers right now , but ill do my best , okay ?
she nodded .
thank you .
she had no words left in her .
i have a few old contacts that im going to try and get in touch with , see if i can get some help , seeing as ive sort of reached the limits of my abilities here .
it might take me some time , though , so please be patient .
there are beds upstairs .
there are always officers here , day and night , though the night shift boys usually do nothing more than play cards and sleep .
larissa remained silent , only nodding here and there in return .
dalton tipped his hat and began to walk out .
oh , i almost forgot , he said .
i found those books .
larissa jumped up and ran towards him .
theyre pretty filthy .
dont know how youre going to read them , but here you go .
he pulled out three books from his pack and handed them to her .
she looked at them and found herself ecstatic .
those were the books !
she grabbed them and hugged him .
oh , thank you !
thank you so much !
oh , uh , nothing , its nothing at all .
was just passing by , he said , flustering .
im going to get going then , miss .
goodbye .
goodbye !
so the man wasnt so bad after all .
the books .
the books !
heristos books !
she flipped open the pages .
they were filthied by mud and dirt .
they were unreadable .
she felt her heart sink .
then there was the blood .
she dropped the books at her feet .
there would always be the blood .
chapter 8 the streets of northshire were well traveled .
townsfolk of all sorts and all ages walked and hobbled across the cobbled pathways .
bakers and butchers , workmen and clerks , men and women , sometimes together , sometimes apart , and even a doctor or a lawyer every once in a while , all traveled the same roads that occupied the spaces between buildings .
the clip clop of tired horses pulling carts and carriages was a common sound , always distinctive amidst the mingling sounds of bored individuals talking to each other .
yet for all of their distinctiveness , all of the people seemed very much the same after a while , watching the same road , the same intersection .
the people blurred into a singular mass .
that was from afar , though , from out of sight .
when viewed up close , however , things changed .
what appeared to be a benign , if unremarkable group of people from a distance became something much more deeply unsettling up close .
the wrinkles on their faces became apparent .
their eyes bulged out of their sockets , their mustaches and beards gray and wiry , their skin pale and paper thin , as if the blood had been drained from their bodies over the course of years .
the women crinkled their noses under the shadow of bonnets , the men pursing their lips under the shadow of their hats .
they were like mangy hounds , all looking for a scrap of bread in their own fashion .
yet they all had intent .
they all knew where they were going , what they were doing , fixated on their destinations with all their minds energy , no matter how short and uncomplicated the path may be .
there was a time in history when people would dress up elaborately , ornamenting themselves with fine cloth and silk , jewels and gold , yet would mask their faces in the tradition of the masked ball , wearing masks representing animals or flowers , myths or legends .
these masks would be elaborate or simple , depending upon taste , but , no matter what , they would be individual .
they would dance , eat , drink and gossip with each other , all while being oblivious of the identity of the person to either side .
sure , one could tell somewhat by their voice , but at a party of hundreds , and at times thousands , how could one really expect to recall everyone by voice alone ?
yet it was a strange thing , gazing so often at the streets of northshire .
one could almost believe that the people that traveled these streets day after day wore masks as well , yet for all their minor individuality , their masks appeared to be the same .
who made these masks , and where did they come from ?
maybe if they took them off every now and again , they would not seem so cold , but with them on , they were nothing less than absolutely frightening , once one could start to see them .
eventually though , no matter how busy the streets may have been during the day , by nightfall , they would be empty .
well , except for the drunks .
loud as they might be , however , at least they were themselves .
nothing melts a mask as well as liquor , or so it seemed .
excuse me miss .
out of the crowd , a peculiar man had walked out .
he was of moderate height , rather straight , and he wore a top hat .
there was a strange fear .
a flash of vision .
a top hat .
sorry , didnt mean to startle you .
was just wondering if you were all right ?
not the same top hat though .
a different one .
a much crummier one .
oh , im fine , thank you .
the man looked at her queerly , then walked off , slowly moving his gaze away .
larissa sneezed , and wrapped the shawl about her tighter .
dalton insisted she stay indoors , but she couldnt stay in that station all day it was suffocating .
she had to get out at least for an hour each day .
she sat in the streets most days , just watching .
most people thought she was a beggar or a waif .
they would look at her strangely , and a few would toss coins at her .
she didnt care the small change added up over time .
but really , she just watched .
she had never seen so many people before .
it was hard to understand this world .
it made much more sense in books and in discussions , but things were a lot different than she had expected them to be .
she would have to learn how things worked here , else she was sure that her luck would run out sooner or later .
but she was so tired , and so sick .
she stood up and coughed as she began walking back to the station , only across the street .
at least they had given her clothes , for that much she was grateful at least , though they treated her with such condescension that she wanted to scream .
she never did though , not anymore .
it wouldnt serve any purpose .
it would just give them an excuse to condemn her as crazy .
it didnt matter much anyway .
nothing much mattered anymore .
she watched the cobblestones as her feet stepped over them , one by one .
they were shoddy stones , and weathered under many years of use and abuse .
how many people have stepped on the stones she was standing on now , she wondered ?
probably more than she could count .
northshire was an old city , built during the earlier years of the dominion , of the colonization .
but northshire was practically young compared to the cities of the ancient civilizations .
the domain of the solarian civilization used to span from here through ionas and more .
larissa loved studying anything involving the solarians .
their world had been one of beauty , serenity , and peace .
the wearied cobblestones passed before her feet .
they even had highways , and they would have been paved quite a bit better .
out of the road stared the face of hag .
larissa stopped , taken aback .
the reflection in the puddle in the road stared back out , just as surprised as she .
it was bruised , scarred , and pale , like that of a ghosts .
she quickly stepped away .
this was not what she looked like .
that was not her face in the puddle , but that of an impostor .
she couldnt believe what had become of her .
best not to think about it .
best not to think about anything at all .
larissa walked through the door of the building , entering into the dark , cold confines of the station .
behind a desk , wilbur sat eating something disgusting , the fat of his buttocks presumably flowing over the limited space of the seat of the chair .
every few weeks , he would manage to break a chair .
he just nibbled on his whatever it was and squinted leeringly at larissa as she passed by , taking the stairs up .
as she reached the second floor , she turned round a few corners down the hallway and found herself in a room .
her room , temporarily .
it had a bed , and not much else .
it was one of the rooms the night shift officers used for their naps , though it suited her just fine .
she was not feeling all that picky these days .
she collapsed on the bed and wrapped the sheets around her .
all she ever did was sleep .
and what else was there to do , anyway ?
it was a dead end town , in a dead end part of the country , filled with half dead gray faced people who wanted nothing more than to finish the job and end themselves in as unremarkable and drawn out a manner as possible .
she was in dire need of a book , preferably one involving fairytales .
it wasnt even a matter of enjoyment or leisure .
she needed them .
she needed something to fill the void , or else it would soon implode , crushing her completely .
larissa had tried to make use of the northshire library , but she didnt have a card , and she had no proof of residence , and none of the officers would lend her their cards even though they didnt even use them , and dalton didnt even have one , seeing as he owned the entire logan t. walker series and didnt feel there was much of a point in reading anything else .
gah !
so she simply lay there , trying not to think about anything in particular .
no matter how much she tried to keep her mind empty , though , her thoughts drifted towards her dreams .
she never remembered them when she woke up , but something later on would , inevitably , trigger her memory .
it would only be a faint memory though , like the trail of light left in the wake of a fireflys journey through the night .
you could try catching it , but you would most likely end up with nothing more than air cupped between your hands .
that top hat though she remembered that top hat .
sure , it was just an article of clothing , an object , but within its shadow was buried something dangerous .
but this was certainly not what she wanted to be thinking about .
she would drive herself mad sooner than make any sense of something as intangible and superstitious as this .
her mother always told her not to read so many tales of fantasy lest she become deluded by them .
bah , her mother .
at least there was one woman she didnt have to deal with anymore .
she was certainly safe somewhere within the inner sanctum , probably sipping fine wine with keira and her betrothed in a chateau while servants licked their feet , oblivious of what larissa was going through .
not as if they would care .
and why should they ?
its not as if she cared about them .
they could do whatever they liked it didnt matter much to her .
as long as she had a place to sleep and some bread , she was happy .
so happy indeed .
yet again , she found herself in a situation where she just didnt know what to do with herself .
heristo had always said that the two primary driving forces of man were personal survival and reproduction , but , even in prehistoric times , there would be times when people really just had nothing to do .
and what did they do then ?
they created art , in whatever way they could .
maybe out of a sense of need , but most likely it had more than something to do with just being bored .
but larissa wasnt an artist .
so what was she then ?
just a stupid little girl .
a knock at the door .
larissa got up and opened it .
mr. dalton , she said .
yeah , uh , miss , is this a bad time ?
no , not really .
whats going on ?
uh , well , i wrote to one of my friends go way back , knew him for years .
hes working in the dominion security forces now , and he contacted well , its a bit complicated , but the bottom line is theres someone coming whod like to hear your story .
larissa was silent .
who ?
she said , after a while .
a certain lord cornwell .
a lord ?
really ?
well , they hand out lordships and titles now like the sunday paper .
more like as not hes just some minor official , but its certainly something .
and somethings better than nothing , i always say .
actually i dont , but in this case , i think it holds true .
hes going to have a lot of questions for you .
think you can handle it ?
oh , yeah .
i can .
ill be fine .
all right , come down when youre ready , ill be waiting .
a lord .
a real lord was here .
and for her !
finally , someone to listen to her !
someone with sense enough to realize she was telling the truth !
someone educated , and intelligent , and articulate and noble .
someone noble was here to see her .
at last , things were looking up for larissa .
they would get everything sorted out , and she would be able to go some place safe , somewhere with actual food and books and everything that nobility afforded .
finally .
finally !
she got herself together and walked out of the room , her step more noticeably lively than before .
as she walked down the stairs , however , she saw several of the officers standing about , all talking and moving about animatedly .
she reached the ground floor and was greeted by dalton .
mr. dalton , whats going on ?
larissa asked .
oh , these characters are just all in a tussle about a lord coming down to the station .
doesnt happen every day .
he should be here shortly .
take a seat .
the officers seemed to be in a relatively good mood today , at least compared to their normal demeanor .
it was a bit of a shock , really .
but she supposed they would be excited as well .
as if anyone of stature or character would ever normally have dealings with such people .
but as the minutes passed away , and as the minutes turned into hours , the animation dwindled .
officers left for their desks , the captain and wilbur left to eat , and the only people left in the foyer of the station were larissa and dalton .
hey , he said he was coming , dalton said .
i got a letter saying he was coming today .
these official types of people tend to run late on everything , though , so dont worry .
larissa nodded .
the lord probably had lordlier things to be doing today than listening to a young girl babble on about dark deeds .
well , then .
dalton said .
larissa turned to him .
yes , well , then .
i will say , after these weeks , youre much more amicable when youre fed .
most women are , from what i understand , larissa said .
after a pause , dalton said , i will say as well , this has certainly been more interesting of a diversion than i first thought it to be .
really ?
who would have imagined that .
i mean , its a real mystery .
a real , honest to bones crime caper .
who knows what actually happened ?
not me , certainly .
certainly , larissa said .
and probably not you .
probably not .
though its possible , i guess , dalton said .
maybe .
maybe im just taking you all for a ride while i empty out the station safes .
dalton laughed .
well if you are , i hate to inform you , but theres probably not much worth taking in the safes here .
not much worth taking in this town in general , really .
except maybe from the house of a doctor .
true , ever so true .
seriously though , whats your name ?
i think ive earned that at least .
its a secret .
oh , come on .
not fair .
do i have to go into how much money i spent on you already again ?
i mean all these weeks of work and wondering and whatnot , and and larissa rolled her eyes .
larissa .
larissa .
well , thats anticlimactic .
what were you expecting ?
maybe my name was volesia ?
hey , hey , hey now .
thats some good writing there , dont you go badmouthing logan t. walker .
ill have you know that logan t. walker is a man of a man opened the door , bursting into the room .
whoa there , dalton said , standing up .
you lord cornwell ?
yes , that would be me , the man said .
he was breathing heavily under his cloak and his armor , as if he had sprinted the way there a great distance , though the tethered white horse visible through the open door proved it not to be the case .
i apologize for my tardiness , he said , the horse neighing in the background .
oh , no problem , at all lord , dalton said .
ah , if only that were true .
could i trouble you for a glass of water ?
larissa hopped up and went out back to find a pitcher of water .
she dug around the offices some until she found something that would do the job .
she filled the glass up and walked back toward the entrance way , but stopped a bit early , peeking around the corner .
she wanted to get a good look at the man without seeming like she was staring .
the man was certainly different than what she had expected .
he wore metallic , colorless armor , and a large black cloak that draped his shoulders .
he looked probably forty five , or older , with trim brown hair and cheeks dark with dappled gray stubble .
she always imagined lords to be ferocious , lion hearted men , and while this particular lord may not have been quite a lion per se , he would probably fit the bill in a pinch .
and a pinch was definitely what she was in at the moment .
she didnt know how she would be able to relate the story to him without tearing up , though .
she hadnt thought about it directly in what seemed like ages .
a sense of dread filled her , knowing she would need to venture back into such dark territories , but she would just have to manage .
she walked back to the entrance way and handed the glass to the lord with a smile and a bow .
thank you my dear , cornwell said .
and i take it you are the young lady in question ?
i suppose i would be .
he took several gulps of water , letting it flow past the lip of the cup and down his lips .
he wiped his face with the back of his glove .
now then , we must get going .
long journey ahead of us .
larissa was confused .
wait , what ?
dalton said .
what do you mean ?
where are we going ?
we arent going anywhere , constable .
im taking the girl some place safe .
the station is plenty safe .
dont you want to hear her story ?
ive heard enough of it already .
through your letters .
it is sufficient .
we are aware of what is going on in the region north of northshire , and i assure you the dominion security forces are taking the appropriate measure to resolve the situation .
well , id like to be aware of whats going on myself , you know .
ive been at this case for weeks now .
yes , well , constable i cant say its your place to be demanding anything from a lord of the dominion , but the situation involves illegal mining operations .
theyve discovered new veins and theres quite a bit of trouble in the works for the region as a result .
you know the sorts of people involved in illegal mining , the things they are capable of doing .
they are crooks and thieves at heart , and murder and abduction is certainly not beyond them .
i assure you , tintown officials have been notified and they are taking appropriate steps .
i dont understand why you need the girl though .
yes , well i really dont have the time nor the inclination to describe in detail enough for you to understand what is classified information in any case .
suffice it to say , the girl is not as safe here as you might like to think .
all i want to do is take her some place that can provide a more reasonable amount of security , again , for reasons i cant disclose to you .
where ?
dalton said .
cornwell twitched .
he turned to larissa .
my lady , if you would gather your belongings , we shall depart presently .
im sure youve had enough of life in the county station .
larissa nodded and headed back to the bedroom .
she didnt have much , but she grabbed a cheap bag anyway , tossing in the few coins she had , the few clothes she had managed to scrounge up , and of course the solarian texts .
she tied up the bag , wrapped the shawl about her , and made to leave .
she was more than happy to finally be rid of northshire .
sure , she didnt know where she was going , but it would still a great deal better than living with the officers at the station .
wherever they were going , it would be better than northshire .
nothing could be worse than this dump of a city , at least .
as she returned to the station entrance , she nodded towards dalton .
wheres lord cornwell ?
waiting outside .
bit testy , that one is .
yes , well , thanks for everything , larissa said .
oh , dont mention it .
call me a sucker for a damsel in distress , dalton said , winking .
larissa narrowed her eyes and shook her head .
as she stepped out of the station entrance , she felt a sense of welcome relief overcome her .
so she was finally leaving .
a lord had come for her , a real lord , and this mess would finally get sorted out once and for all .
things would return to normal .
all that had happened was not as it appeared to be .
it had just been a misinterpretation , all of it , a misunderstanding .
it was just a dream , a bad , bad dream , and the world would return to what it once was , and would remain so forever after .
my lady , lord cornwell said .
if it pleases you , i believe we should in all haste depart .
larissa struggled to find something proper to say , but faltered , settling on sure .
lord cornwell mounted the white horse , planting his feet in the stirrups .
he reached a hand towards larissa .
she latched onto it and tried not to be startled as he pulled her up behind him .
within a moment , cornwell had urged the horse on and they were off at a canter .
larissa tried to steady her breathing .
she had never actually ridden a horse before , and the experience was more than a little unnerving .
all the movement made her feel a bit sick .
she coughed into the crook of her elbow .
she hoped she would not lose her lunch before they got to wherever they were going .
it would be terribly embarrassing , finally getting the chance to meet a real dominion lord in person , only to let go on his cloak moments after .
after several moments of watching the gray faced men and women of northshire race by below , larissa said , so , lord cornwell .
yes , my lady ?
lord cornwell said .
exactly where are we going now ?
oh , let me concern myself with that , wont you ?
theres nothing to worry about now , rest assured i know this must be difficult for you , truly , but weve a good deal of hard riding ahead of us , so , if you please , think on merrier times as we journey forth .
chapter 9 they rode for many hours without stopping .
the quaint houses and buildings of northshire , once congested and abundant , grew sparser and sparser until there was nothing left but countryside and open land , and the frightening faces of the townsfolk were nothing more than memories fading out upon the open air .
larissa found that she couldnt much feel her legs anymore .
she felt sore , and sick .
her cough had gotten worse , and the smell of horse seemed to corrode her lungs as she breathed it in , moment after moment , hour after hour .
the empty silence of the countryside , at first peaceful and reassuring , grew eerie and uncertain with the passing of time .
it was an exhilarating feeling , being out there , alone with a dominion lord , riding out into the lands , but it was strange as well .
where they were going , she still could not say , but it was better than that hovel town of northshire , she could say that much .
wherever they were headed , it could get no worse , of that she could be certain .
there was little to preoccupy herself with .
time seemed to drag on as if it was weighted and chained to the ground .
the landscape was unremarkable , and , after a while , utterly unchanging .
if it was not for the straightness of the road they traveled , she would have wondered whether they were going in circles .
that was it , though , the roads they were empty .
perhaps thats what lent the place such an eerie air .
shouldnt there be other people on roads in the middle of the day ?
wherever they were headed , however , they were the only ones headed there , that was for sure .
after a time , however , larissa noticed something in the distance .
a strange smear , stretched across the horizon .
she wondered whether they were mountains , but no , this was something quite regular and flat .
perhaps hills ?
a town ?
she could not be sure .
lord cornwell ?
larissa said .
hmm ?
whats that on the horizon ?
she asked , getting out whatever words she could while continuing to absorb the pulse of the horses moving muscles .
lord cornwell said something , but she couldnt quite make it out .
what was that ?
the wall .
the outer wall .
the outer wall ?
what ?
why in gods name were they going here ?
she had thought that they had been headed in the opposite direction , to the inner wall , towards the capital , where there were more official offices and such .
why ?
she said .
no time .
ill explain later .
the outer wall was what separated the dominion from the rest of the region , stretching from the northern mountains all the way across the expanse of the dominion .
its what kept the civil people in , and the others , out .
and if they were heading out there , then well , larissa suddenly felt unwell .
the horse seemed to be tiring , so lord cornwell brought the animal to a slow canter .
they moved across the empty road ever more slowly , and though the pace of their travel was far beyond glacial , it did not seem so given their progress , and given the distance left to travel and she still didnt even know where they were going .
lord cornwell ?
yes , my lady he said .
exactly where are we going ?
lord cornwell remained silent a moment , then turned his head over his shoulder to larissa .
my lady , as i said before , you should entrust to me the consequences of such affairs .
theres no reason for you to concern yourself with such troubles .
thats what im here for .
however , if you promise to cease troubling yourself with such affairs from here on out , ill tell you .
fine , larissa said .
lord cornwell returned his gaze to the road ahead , so all larissa could see was the back of his head .
were going to fort kelly .
larissa felt her stomach sink .
fort kelly ?
but my lady , lord cornwell said .
i promised you i would keep you safe , and you just promised me to cease your concerns .
im afraid i dont see the point of further worry .
now please , think on happier times and occupy yourself as such till we reach our destination .
we still have quite a lengthy travel ahead of us .
larissa bit her lip .
she wrapped her shawl about her tighter , as she suddenly felt quite cold .
fort kelly .
that was most definitely beyond the wall .
there were four dominion forts outside the outer wall .
they protected the borders of the dominion , but all sorts of things happened there , and none of them was a place for a young girl like larissa , that much she knew .
and fort kelly watched over the border of wayland of all places .
wayland god , wayland !
but why ?
larissa said .
lord cornwell sighed .
listen , theres really nothing to worry about , i promise you .
but things are happening right now in the region , all a matter of due course , i assure you .
really , truly nothing to worry about .
but simply as a matter of precaution , i need to take you some place a bit out of the way .
but beyond the wall ?
is that really , um , necessary ?
it is , i assure you .
again , theres really nothing to worry about .
well , she was worrying , worrying quite a bit .
but perhaps he was right .
he was a lord after all .
simply a matter of precaution , he had said .
well , that was reassuring , wasnt it ?
it was a dominion fort after all .
regardless of the stories , it was at least well , fortified .
if there was anywhere she could be safe , it would be inside a dominion fort , surely ?
she didnt really know what to make of things anymore .
it wasnt as if she had a real choice in the matter .
lord cornwell must have gone through all sorts of trouble to find her , and was doing her such a service by helping her , and here she was questioning him at every moment .
he obviously knew what he was doing , and there was indeed nothing to worry about .
the hours passed more quickly after that .
she thought about the story of the witch of the north .
the witch was an old hag that lived in a castle atop the mountains .
one day , a prince was leading a hunting party through the woods nearby , and the witch disguised herself as a beautiful young girl , and the prince fell in love straight away .
he led his hunting party in pursuit of her , through the woods , up into the mountains .
but one by one , the witch led the men in his hunting party astray , signaling her minions to trap them and carry them away to her castle , until only the prince was left , alone in the mountains with the witch .
the witch , cunning creature that she was , kept herself in disguise , as the beautiful girl , leading the prince on and on until she led him to her castle , at which point she revealed herself to be the hideous , ghastly creature that she really was .
the prince drew his sword in anger , but the minions of the witch were too many , and overwhelmed him .
they trapped him and threw him into the dungeons , a private plaything of the witch .
one by one , the men from the hunting party died in the dungeons , but due to the foul magics of the witch , the prince remained healthy , youthful , and alive for years and years , but though his body did not change and his face remained as handsome as ever , his mind decayed .
it lost its vigor , its life , until he was nothing more than a shell of a man .
but there came a day when a young peasant girl was traveling through those very same woods to be married to a rich old merchant .
her father had commanded it of her , and though she had cried and cried , she knew she had to obey and marry the merchant , for her family was poor , and they could afford so very little .
they needed her to do it for them , and though she had been a peasant , she was beautiful and the merchant had wanted her for himself immediately .
but as she traveled through the woods on her way to the merchant , escorted by hired men of the merchant , the witch saw them from afar .
she saw them , saw the girl , and grew jealous of the girls beauty .
the prince had gone lifeless and no longer amused her .
she wanted a new plaything , and saw it in the peasant girl .
so the witch returned in the guise of a beautiful woman , and lured the merchants men away , one by one , and her minions trapped them when they least expected it , till the girl was left all alone in the woods .
then the witch appeared once again , but this time in the guise of the prince that she had captured so long ago .
the witch promised to take the girl away , to bless her family with wealth and fortune , and to marry the girl right then and there , saving her from marrying the merchant .
the girl fell in love with the image of the prince and , elated at the joy of such good fortune , she followed the witch into her castle .
but as she entered , the witch then revealed herself as she had done before to the prince .
the girl screamed and screamed , trying to run away , but the witchs minions took her and threw her into the dungeon , laughing in glee .
the girl was terrified .
she felt as if she were the most miserable person in the world .
but after days of suffering in the dungeon alone , she felt the presence of another person there with her .
she searched through the dungeons and found there , lying on the floor as if dead , the true prince .
but the prince had lost his mind from enduring the concoctions of the witch for so many years .
after a time , the girl befriended some of the minions , and they stole bits of potions and ingredients for her .
she had many ingredients now , stowed away , but she needed to find a recipe for the cure .
one night , she managed to sneak out of the dungeons and enter the witchs library , where she found the recipe she was looking for .
but as she was about to return , the witch found her , and struck her with her spells .
she was furious .
the girl thought she was going to die .
but just as she hung over the ledge at the top of the tower , about to meet her doom , the witch screamed out in pain , and crashed to the floor .
there stood the prince , awakened and rejuvenated not by a potion or an elixir , but by the beauty and the love of the girl .
he took her hand and they departed that evil castle once and for all .
the prince reclaimed his throne , showered fortune upon the girls family , and married the girl in a glorious ceremony , and they lived happily ever after .
larissa wondered if she would live happily ever after .
lord cornwell was no prince , certainly , but she was better off than she had been .
she was going places .
there was still hope for her .
she didnt want much , not really .
all she wanted was to live happily ever after .
wasnt that what everyone wanted ?
larissa blinked and found herself looking into the face of a behemoth .
out across the hills towered the massive stone face of the creature known as the outer wall of the dominion .
she had only ever read about it in history and geography books .
it had always been written that the wall was large , but this was no wall this was a monster .
and they were going outside its protection after a while , they came upon a reasonably sized town and a series of outposts , surrounded by a formidable wall in and of itself , but a pale imitation of the monstrosity whose shadow it resided within .
it was growing dark , and the torches had already been lit along the lesser wall .
as the horse slowed and walked towards the gate , and as the dark guardsmen upon the walls looked down at her , the smoky clouds dimming the lands a shade of half hearted crimson , larissa had the feeling coil up inside her that she was now going someplace far , far from home , and far , far from any place she could have even imagined .
for all she knew , she was headed past the end of the known world .
as lord cornwell sauntered the horse up to the gate , he hailed the guards .
they stood overlooking the road at the gates , staring down , inspecting , looking for something , but god knew what .
larissa could almost feel their probing eyes gazing out from under the shadow of their helms .
it made her feel as if she were naked on the horse , the cloth around her body melting away into nothing .
she wrapped the shawl about her and averted her eyes .
maybe if she didnt look at them , they wouldnt look at her .
hey there !
yeah , you , my good man !
want to get this thing going or what ?
after a while , one of the guardsmen appeared over the top of the gate .
well need to see your papers .
yes , yes , ive got everything you need .
open up the gate so we can get this over with .
whos the girl ?
one of the other men said .
none of your concern .
oh , i believe it is our concern , my good man .
you see this here pass ?
well , this is our pass , our watch , and by dominion appointment , we oversee everything that passes through these walls , flies , fish and men alike .
so if youve got a problem with that , then weve got a problem too .
and there are only a few different ways we resolve our problems around these parts .
thats fine , cornwell said .
that is utterly fine .
just open the god forsaken gate .
a few of the men disappeared over the top of the gate .
after some time , there was a large grinding noise , the sound of cackling and groaning metal , followed by a large clack that rung in larissas ears , and the large gates opened before them .
as they creaked open , the space between them widened , gradually revealing probably at least forty men , armored , armed , standing in formation in the pass like a wall of stone , ready to fall upon her at a moments notice .
one of the men stepped forward .
your papers .
lord cornwell produced from his coat a set of folded papers and handed them to the guardsman .
the guardsman unfolded the papers and looked through them for a moment , but after only a moment , his head quickly shot upward towards the lord .
im sorry , sir , i didnt know .
he quickly folded the papers up and handed them back .
you should have told us .
if you had , we wouldnt have thats fine , lord cornwell said , his horse moving forward through the parting soldiers .
weve business to attend to of course , the guardsman said .
if there is anything you need and im sure you have too .
er yes , yes , of course .
close the gates , lower the portcullis , seal the deal up .
what are you louts standing around for ?
get moving !
now !
as the horse moved forward in the fortress , larissa looked back over her shoulder .
the men scurried to close the gate , but a few took off their helms and looked back at her .
but no , they werent looking at her at all .
what were they looking at , then ?
this fortress was northgate she remembered it from her geography lessons .
it was one of four gate fortresses across the whole of the outer wall , and consequently one of the only four ways of getting into or out of the dominion .
well , other than by sea , but that was a different story altogether .
the fortress housed a large garrison , as well as a military town of sorts .
it was strange , though .
aside from various wandering soldiers and guardsmen , the place was strangely quiet and empty , the sound of the horses hooves the only noticeable thing disrupting the silence .
lord cornwell ?
larissa said .
yes yes , my lady , what is it ?
why is this place so empty ?
its not at all empty .
there are several thousand dominion soldiers here and quite a few civilians as well .
then , why is it so quiet ?
its late in the day .
and theres not exactly all that much to do here at the edge of the dominion , other than to hold down the fort , so to speak .
they passed by buildings on either side of them , many of them fortified .
surely people must go out from time to time , larissa said .
from time to time .
this just doesnt happen to be one of those times , thats all .
he pulled back on the reins and guided the horse to a large building , dim light pouring out of its windows .
he jumped off the horse and held out his hand to larissa .
come along now .
what are we doing now ?
well be spending the night here .
its too late in the day to continue any further .
larissa held onto his hand and tried to dismount as gracefully as she could , generally failing miserably .
lord cornwell looked over his shoulder as she scrambled off , and as she fell , he looked back at her only to find her on the ground .
as he helped her up , she dusted herself off and followed him towards the building .
lord cornwell opened the door and unveiled a dimly lit scene , the light of the fire in the hearth at the back of the room washing over the chairs and the tables , the bar and the people .
a balding man stood behind the bar wiping glasses with a cloth while a few others nursed their drinks seated upon stools .
the tables were relatively empty , with a few men here and there muttering to each other in the corners of the room .
as they began to notice the newcomers , however , their expressions changed from idle apathy to scrutiny .
cornwell approached the man with the apron behind the bar .
well be needing a room .
the innkeep looked up at him , then returned his gaze to the glass in his hand , the dirty cloth with which he wiped doing nothing more than spreading the filth around .
dont see many strangers round here these days .
what kind of roomll you be wanting ?
one with two beds , lord cornwell said .
the innkeep lifted his eyes lazily from the glass towards larissa , as if he had noticed her for the first time .
youll get no questions from me .
i said two beds , cornwell said .
i mean it .
course , course .
like i said , no questions from me .
yore business is yore business .
just give me a key .
soon as you give me some coin .
cornwell took out a fistful of coins from his pouch and dropped them onto the bar .
thatll do the trick , the innkeep said .
he dug out a key from one of the numerous pockets on his apron .
second story , third room on your right and no questions , he said with a lazy wink .
cornwell glared .
any brandy ?
what does this look like ?
a respectable establishment ?
fine , whiskey .
the innkeep wiped his mug .
fine , ale .
now you speak my language .
the innkeep took the mug he had been wiping and filled it with a frothy brew from a keg .
anything for the lady ?
um , warm honey milk ?
larissa said .
cornwell scowled .
you really think this man has any warm honey milk , coming up , the inkeep said drowsily , turning .
give me a minute to warm it up .
cornwell took larissa by the arm and motioned towards a table in the corner of the room , ale in hand .
servile scum she thought she heard cornwell mutter under his breath .
he pulled a chair and motioned for larissa to sit .
flattered , she sat down , cornwell following suit .
he passed his eyes over the room , surveying , sipping the mug , cringing , yet sipping again .
that innkeep was nice , larissa said .
cornwell turned a sullen glare to larissa , returning to looking off to the side .
this place isnt so bad , i guess , larissa said , gripping herself from the sudden chill .
its a plebian watering hole .
im sorry i had to drag you here , but need dictates it .
oh , i dont mind .
its better than that station .
yes , that station how long did you say you were there in northshire ?
i didnt .
i was there at the station for a few weeks .
pretty unsightly place , but better than the streets , i suppose .
you spent time on the streets ?
you poor child .
oh , i managed , larissa said .
im sure you must be quite strong of spirit to make it through all of that .
its safe to say that you can put it behind you now , though , i assure you .
yes , im glad .
im quite grateful , actually .
id like to thank you for taking me away from there .
it was really getting quite unbearable , im afraid .
no need to mention it , my lady .
just doing my duty , so to speak .
no really , i cant tell you excuse me , cornwell said , leaving his mug and getting up from the table .
larissa looked over to the entrance .
a few men stood there , haggard looking , breathing heavily .
they wore tattered cloaks and hoods , and from under their folds of clothing , she saw the dull gleam of sword hilts .
cornwell engaged them , and they exited out the front door together .
they must be friends of lord cornwell , larissa thought to herself .
perhaps even sworn men , men at arms , come to protect them on their journey .
she sighed .
finally , things were looking up .
she got up and made for the bar .
milk ready ?
larissa asked the innkeep .
yeah , just a second , he said , lifting a small pot from the fire and pouring its contents into a mug .
he placed it on the table .
enjoy .
careful , its hot .
larissa blew on it , the warmth flowing back into her face .
it smelled sweet and soothing .
she couldnt wait to taste it .
so then , the innkeep said .
whats a pretty young girl like yourself doing in these parts .
oh , nothing much , larissa said .
vacationing .
the innkeep chuckled .
really ?
not too many people vacation in war zones .
larissa furrowed her brow .
war zones ?
yeah well , i guess technically its not a war .
they call it an engagement round here , but its a war as far as i can tell .
with whom ?
larissa asked .
valencian rebels , ocourse .
insurgents , as they say sometimes .
but theyre beyond the wall sure thing , but were right by close , we are .
all sorts of government people been passing through here for more an a year now .
but lately , its gone quiet .
government says its dying down , but i say those bastards have something nasty in store waiting for em .
so where you headed , anyway ?
fort kelly , larissa said .
fort kelly ?
you out of your mind , girl ?
where do you think theyre fighting the war from ?
those government soldiers out there , sir they are not people you pick a fight with , even when yore dead drunk and pissin yoreself like a pilgrim .
best enjoy that milk there .
last bit o civilization youre like to get if youre headin out into that wilderness .
larissa looked into the mug she held with both hands .
she sipped the milk .
it tasted warm and sweet , but she was left with a strange taste lingering in her mouth it made her feel ill .
the door burst open , and larissa felt someone grab her by the shoulder .
get your things , cornwell said .
larissa was puzzled .
what ?
change of plans , just a little detour , nothing to worry about .
but why ?
i thought you said honestly , my lady , just a minor complication .
trivial , really , but we need to depart presently .
larissa ran back to the table and grabbed her bag , and no sooner had she done so then cornwell clamped onto her arm and pulled her hurriedly out of the building .
within a moment , he had untethered his horse and had mounted it .
he grabbed larissas arm and pulled her up , signaling the horse into motion before she had even gotten a good hold .
the horse trotted hurriedly down the road , and larissa held on as best she could .
the buildings on either side of her passed by , quicker than before , the lights in the windows seeming to blur , leaving streaks of color lingering in her vision , the thud of hooves booming against her eardrums .
passing through the silent outpost , larissa could not quite understand why they were leaving , or where they were going .
something trivial , cornwell had said , and she was sure that it was but they were going awfully fast .
and then cornwell pulled back on the reins and brought the horse to a stop .
before them stood the monstrous outer wall , a stone titan construct that had defied the wars and the elements for centuries .
larissa tried looking up , only to feel her neck straining as she attempted to see to the top .
a massive gate towered before them , shut , carved and ornamented in the style of the old imperium .
reliefs of swords , warhorses and holy knights , gilded and glimmering dully under years of wear .
ranks of soldiers , their armor impenetrable and their resolve unwavering , the extension of the will of an empire .
and within moments , it all roared to life .
a solemn , thunderous drumbeat of metal and mechanism reverberated through the air .
multiple portcullises raised in succession , the gates on either end of the entry way slowly opening up .
then the gates were silent , and larissa could see clearly through to the other side , a foreboding wilderness that seemed to beckon , as if it had long been waiting for her .
and now that she was finally at the gates , it would relish her coming .
lord cornwell spurred the horse into motion and they passed under the shadow of the gate , emerging a long moment later on the other side .
no sooner had they passed through than the thunder began to beat once more , this time behind them .
the road before them did not seem so different than the one they had been traveling upon all day .
the landscape around them didnt seem so dissimilar either , in fact .
but there was something strange about this place something uncertain and intangible .
and as the skies darkened even further , larissa could already see the hills and the trees transforming into something much more sinister .
she hoped that she would be behind a wall again before they completed their metamorphosis .
chapter 10 the rains went about their business , falling steadily , turning the streets into mirrors .
the fine stones of the city floor , wet with sky , caught the lights of the buildings like starlight , radiant , yet muted by the hidden day .
the clouds passing overhead were monotone and morose as the light upon filtering through .
it was another gloriously drab day in the city by the sea , and it was a perfect day for bitter irony .
rowan adjusted his hat , the water trickling from the sides of the brim .
people passed by , carrying umbrellas , the men shielding their women from the elements .
he looked across the street , a carriage passing by across his vision .
even through the rains , the hand painted sign was unmistakable .
daisys cafe .
of all the cafes , the restaurants , the taverns in the city , he had to pick that one , didnt he ?
even from a distance , rowan could see the daisies in small pots by the windows , illuminated by the warm glow of the indoors .
it was a small joint , a strange thing near the docks district , as if the seamen wandering by would stop in for a crumpet .
it was dwarfed by towering buildings on either side , still looking as if it would be swallowed at any second .
rowan closed his eyes , trying not to see anything but the darkness of his eyelids .
he took a breath , letting the moist air cool his lungs .
upon exhaling , he opened his eyes once more to the dreariness and walked onto the street .
the sound of his steps echoed in his ears like gunshots .
he tried to put it out of mind , but stumbled , nearly falling over .
he looked to the floor .
he had stepped in a pothole brim with murky liquid .
he looked to his shoe it was wet and muddied .
he continued walking .
upon reaching the other side , he approached the cafe .
two simple tables rested on either side of the door , with accompanying chairs , vacant .
perhaps he wouldnt mind sitting outside ?
rowan peered through the glass portal of the door .
the place was empty the man hadnt arrived yet .
rowan raised his head , taking another deep breath , then turned the handle of the door .
a bell at the top of the door rang dully , and he closed the door behind him .
he couldnt believe it the place looked exactly the same .
the polished wooden tables lined the left , while a small bar with stools occupied the right .
there were home sewn coverings over the tables , bright , colorful , with candles all across the room .
there were flower pots , with plants in full bloom .
how they could thrive in such a dim city , rowan couldnt understand , but there they were .
all across the room , paintings done by local school children were hung from the walls .
it was like stepping out of the city and into a dream .
how could such a place even exist in devonport ?
this was a city of high taste , wasnt it ?
then how could something so low brow so crass so wonderful , even survive amidst the chaos of the city ?
rowan steadied himself .
he closed his eyes , and breathed .
he could do this .
he would be fine .
it would all be fine .
oh hello , dear !
a voice said , like warm honey .
how are you ?
just a table for one ?
rowan nodded .
god .
it was the same woman daisy .
she had frayed blonde hair , fading from age .
she wore glasses , and an exuberant hand knitted sweater .
she had aged a bit , but there she was .
all right , come on in .
let me take your coat for you , daisy said , smiling , leading him towards a table .
uh , could i have one in the back , please ?
rowan said , taking off his dripping overcoat and hat .
of course !
anything youd like .
rowan took a seat in the back .
he straightened his tie and his vest .
now then , what can i get for you ?
daisy asked .
rowan looked down at the menu .
it was decorated with images of birds and flowers .
he shut menu .
just some tea , please .
of course , daisy said .
with milk or sugar ?
one sugar , rowan said .
will that be all ?
yes , thank you , rowan said .
just one moment .
daisy took the menu in hand and left through the door behind the bar .
rowan looked at the table in front of him .
the table covering seemed more like a quilt .
it was embroidered with floral designs and patterns of birds .
he pulled his watch out of the pocket of his vest by the chain .
rowan was early .
he sighed just what he needed more time to be stuck in that place .
he got up and walked to the coat rack and pulled a newspaper out of his coat .
he returned to the table and unrolled the paper .
the devonport times the growing deficit the dominion reliance on imperial loans and its effects the accumulation of national debt , much of it a result of imperial loans , has been an ongoing issue for parliament halts bill to ease border control the bill was cast out by the senate .
the bill would have eased constraints on passage of dominion citizens through the inner sanctum .
security along the inner wall has been elevated for three years .
officials cited continued national security risks as reasoning .
the house of lords had threatened to overthrow the bill were it passed in the senate galeroth signs historic treaty galeroth has signed a treaty allowing greater military cooperation with the dominion .
this will allow dominion military forces to have greater freedom operating inside of galeroth valencian resurgence for the past seven months , violence in valencia has been on the decline , but dominion military officials predict that this is a prelude to a greater offensive by insurgent forces rowan rolled up the paper and squeezed it with his hands , slowly .
he put the crumpled paper to the side and placed his hand on his beard .
he kept it trim , very thin , but thick enough to cover his cheeks .
he liked having a beard , but found that the thicker it would get , the more discomforting it would get as well .
he looked out through the windows at the other end of the room .
through the entrance , he could see the rain still coming down onto the city streets .
it was so quiet here , and so cold out there .
he wondered what it would be like , to own such a place , for years , and keep other people happy for the rest of your life .
rowans cafe .
what would that kind of a place be like ?
but no , he couldnt own a cafe .
perhaps a pub .
rowans pub .
but no , he wasnt nearly bawdy enough .
he wished he was , but he wasnt .
daisy entered with a tray .
she placed it on the table with a smile .
let me know if its to your liking .
just give me a call if youd like anything else , ill be in the back .
she left .
rowan stirred the dark tea with the small metal spoon .
the cup was small and dainty , painted in pretty , but subdued colors .
he let the steam lift up from the cup and onto his face .
it felt good upon his skin .
he stirred and drank in the aroma .
the bell rang , and the door opened .
a man stood in the doorway , shutting his umbrella , an image of the falling rain upon the street at his back .
he adjusted his glasses and looked to rowan .
mr. petrov !
good to see you !
daisy said , coming out from the kitchen .
let me take your coat .
wont you sit down ?
im with him today , the man said , gesturing towards rowan .
of course , as you like !
daisy said , smiling .
the usual ?
oh , no , not today .
just some tea , thank you .
of course , just a moment .
the man walked towards rowan .
he was not especially tall , but certainly not short .
underneath his coat , he had a solid frame , and his fierce brown beard erupted from his face .
it was thick , and seemed to put rowans beard to shame .
the man sat down opposite rowan , wiping the rain from his face .
damn umbrella , he said .
what i get for being cheap .
he took off his glasses and began wiping them with a handkerchief .
rowan sipped from his cup .
it was still too hot .
ambassador , he said .
please , henrik , he said , shaking rowans hand .
its been quite a while , mr. williams .
i hope you havent forgotten me .
of course not , mr. petrov , how could i forget a beard like that ?
rowan said .
petrov smirked , replacing his glasses .
the pride of the motherland .
daisy returned to the table , tray in hand .
she placed the teacup in a saucer in front of petrov .
thank you so much , daisy , he beamed .
youre very welcome , daisy said .
ill let you boys get about your business .
let me know if you need anything .
rowan sipped his tea .
it was very good , high quality .
he appreciated the warmth running down his throat .
such a nice place , dont you think ?
petrov said .
yes , quite , rowan said .
are you a frequenter , mr. petrov ?
yes , petrov said .
one of the few places in this damn city i feel welcome .
rowan nodded .
nobody in the dominion cares much about elgonia these days .
youre telling me .
this country but you wont hear me complaining .
less work for me .
petrov blew on his tea quietly .
he was a queer fellow , a rugged elgonian playing the part of the aristocrat .
rowan wondered what the man did all day playing politics with dominion lords , no doubt .
i imagine youd rather be back in elgonia by now , rowan said .
petrov nodded slowly .
yes , i would .
i miss the outdoors , the smell of the world the real world , not this fake world of cities and buildings .
so why not resign ?
go back , live your life in peace .
it is not so easy as that , you know this , petrov said .
besides , that is not what i am here to talk about .
rowan sipped his tea .
so what are you here to talk about , mr. petrov ?
petrov looked into his tea , as if searching for answers in the pleasant darkness .
he took a long , forceful draught , emptying the cup and returning it to the saucer with a clatter .
rowan chuckled quietly .
id hate to be your opposite in a drinking contest .
petrov sighed violently , holding the empty cup with both hands .
its about my daughter .
rowan closed his eyes .
he had feared as much .
mr. petrov , rowan said , opening his eyes , weve been over this before i know , i know .
but please , hear me out , its all im asking , petrov said .
please dont dismiss me .
rowan contemplated this man .
he was a very likable person , but he looked ravaged , grim , as if he had been enduring some sort of terrible war for the years since rowan had last seen him .
all right .
im listening petrov ran his hands across his face .
he meditated on the table mat for a moment before starting .
five years .
five years its been since i last saw her .
and five years since i last saw you .
all that could have been done has been done , i assure you , rowan said .
i know , i know petrov said .
but that doesnt mean its resolved , mr. williams .
rowan rested his cheek upon his hand .
mr. petrov , im sorry for your loss .
truly , i am .
but the case has been cold for years .
any trails would be long dead by now .
drudging up the past like this only ever ends in frustration and disappointment .
petrov stared into his empty teacup .
he looked at it , but his eyes were strangely fixated in a way that made it apparent he was seeing something different .
but then he broke his gaze .
daisy , can i get a refill ?
he shouted .
quickly daisy came out of the kitchen with a tea kettle in hand .
yes mr. petrov .
you and your thirst she said , pouring into his cup till it was brim full of dark crystal liquid .
thank you daisy , petrov said .
youre very welcome , mr. petrov .
she left once more .
petrov sipped daintily from the cup , the steaming hot liquid nearly spilling over the brim .
such a nice place .
and such a nice lady .
he looked to the walls .
such wonderful art , he said , looking at the paintings .
they were so crude , and simple , but colorful , and vibrant .
there were flowers , and families , and children playing in the sunlight .
there were students reading books in the libraries , dancing , and birds , and animals a veritable cornucopia of childish imagery .
indeed , they seemed to radiate their essence into the room .
these children create such beautiful work .
so joyful a simpler life , dont you agree ?
rowan thought what more he could say to the man , but upon looking at him again , he saw that petrovs face was contorted .
the crags and recesses in his hardened face grew .
his muscles tightened , and he shivered as he gripped his own arms savagely .
rowan was startled .
mr. petrov , sir are you all right ?
petrov shook his head erratically , rocking himself back and forth .
i i just he covered his face with his hands and began breathing in staccato rhythm .
he began squealing , trying to stifle himself as best as he could .
rowan didnt know what to do .
mr. petrov , sir removing his hand , petrov revealed his tear stained face .
i was looking through my old things the other day , and i found this .
he took out a wad of paper from his coat and placed it on the table .
go on , open it .
with hesitation , rowan picked up the paper between his two fingers and opened it .
it was a childs drawing , of a fire of men with rifles , and a bleeding woman jumping from the roof of a building .
rowan put down his tea .
he looked at the next drawing .
it was of a large , winged lizard , a monstrous beast swallowing what appeared to be an entire world .
he turned to the next drawing and saw the brutal image of a nightmarish man in armor , radiating a tangible aura , with teeth bared and stained , standing amidst a pile of bodies , some intact , some shriveled and bony , drained and depleted .
even in the erratic scribbles of a child , the image was chilling in fact , the innocence of the marks made the brutality somehow unspeakable .
are all of them like this ?
rowan asked .
petrov wiped his face with a handkerchief , trying to compose himself .
not all .
at first her drawings were joyful .
but after her mother they became what you see here .
mr. williams no child should have to suffer like this .
and no father should have to suffer like this either .
i just want to know what happened to her , thats all .
i have nothing left .
rowan stared into his half empty teacup .
he swirled the tea around with the small spoon , aimlessly .
he knew he was going to regret this .
im going on assignment , he said .
i can not divert myself from what ive been assigned .
that being said ill do what i can .
that seemed to lift a weight off petrovs chest .
thank you , mr. williams , thats all im asking .
he breathed more freely .
now , i must get going .
duties await .
that they do , rowan said .
petrov wiped his face and , within a moment , he had resumed his prior demeanor , as if nothing in the world could ever have affected him unduly .
he laid a few generous bills on the table , went for his coat and umbrella , and departed into the rain .
rowan looked at the papers left on the table .
there were many drawings , all cryptic and macabre .
it figured though , considering what the child had gone through .
and to disappear like that but out of the assorted papers , a photograph fell onto the table .
it was an image of the twelve year old rosaline .
what a cute kid .
he laid out a bill on the table and moved to leave , but stopped , his eyes resting upon the bills .
he picked up a five leo note , suddenly fascinated by the illustrated ornamentation .
so much effort had gone into the bills , with cross work patterns and symbols , all ostensibly in the battle against counterfeiters .
but somehow the imperial symbols , the militant codes and mottos , all seemed to leave him with a distaste not so dissimilar to the effect of the girls drawings .
he laid the bill back down and went for the coat rack .
he placed the papers and the photo inside his overcoat and made to leave .
have a nice day mr. williams , daisy said as rowan put on his hat .
rowan nodded as daisy returned to the kitchen .
just as rowan was about to leave , however , he paused .
she had remembered his name .
after all those years , she had remembered his name .
he walked back to his table .
on it were the few bills .
he dug into his pocket and counted out five hundred leos , and placed them on the table as he made to leave in a hurry .
the place had been around a long time .
and hopefully it would still be there after he died .
chapter 11 take the children and barricade yourselves in the cellar .
no .
max is still out there .
we have to find him .
theres no time .
hes a smart boy , hell hide in the fields .
no !
hes your son !
we have to find him !
father , whats going on ?
woman , were fighting a war here !
her father said .
stay with the children and the servants .
im taking the guards out to meet them .
what ?
no !
her mother said , her voice cracking .
please , victor , dont !
she said , gripping him by the shoulders , panic flickering in her eyes .
we can fend them off from the house ... and risk harm to you , the children , and the house ?
he softened , taking her hand in his .
we have no choice .
their intentions are clear .
theyre mounted if you run , theyll hunt you down in the fields .
well destroy them out there , away from where they can do damage .
stay in the cellar .
sera watched as her mother stood in the doorway , his father armed with a gladius turning his back and joining his men waiting in the courtyard .
mother ?
sera said .
ravinian filth , her mother said , teeth bared .
how much blood must they spill before their thirst is sated ?
outside , the skies were gray and imperious , and through the door sera could see the fields of the farmlands blowing in the winds .
a sensation of ominous dread tainted the whole household.there had been war with ravinia once before .
there had been wars aplenty , but never at home .
sera , take your sister and barricade yourselves in the basement , her mother said , suddenly animated .
mother , where are you going ?
sera said , terrified .
father said to i have to find your brother , her mother said .
ill find him and be back soon .
stay with your sister .
dont let anyone in except for me or your father .
the servants will answer to you .
before sera could say anything , her mother ran through the door and into the gray dimness of the windswept fields .
the winds had picked up and thrashed the fields her family had worked so hard to cultivate over generations .
the shutters blew open and the air gushed into the rooms , sending the doors slamming open in tumultuous rhythm .
the ghostly echoes rang in discord as she gripped herself , cold and , for the first time , alone .
at a loss , she lingered in the foyer .
what would her father do ?
charge out like a cavalier and meet the enemy in a glory worthy of legend , of course , but that didnt help her ... she quickly surveyed the windows .
the walls of the house were strong and ought to be defensible .
if they blocked the openings , it would at least delay them for whatever precious few moments that was worth .
before her , the doors stood wide open , inviting the whole world to step right in .
but what if her mother returned ?
her mother had made her decision , and so had her brother .
it wasnt about them anymore .
it was about her , her sister , and the members of her household remaining .
without any further hesitation , she pulled the front doors forcefully shut and locked them .
the servants stood , at a loss , frozen in place as if they were already dead .
she looked at them all either weak , old , or women .
her father was brave , but shouldnt they have defended from the house ?
she knew her father worried ceaselessly about the artifacts and relics of their ancestral history , as well as the pricelessness of the home itself but was the past so valuable as to endanger the present ?
barricade the doors and windows , sera said .
the servants didnt move .
well ?
what are you waiting for ?
ms. sera how ?
sera couldnt believe what she was hearing their ineptitude made her furious .
like this !
she said , slamming the shutters , and dragging a bookcase in front of a window .
help me !
finally her plea broke the spell and the servants ambled about , grabbing furniture and anything at hand and burying the windows with obstructions .
as they continued , sera ran upstairs , down the hall , and opened up her sisters room .
there by the window on a little chair carved specially for her rocked her sister , margaery , staring off into the distance .
something bad is happening , isnt it ?
margaery said .
sera nodded , even though her sisters eyes were focused beyond .
come on , were going to play hide and seek , okay ?
and im not the seeker , am i ?
margaery said , her eyes rich with unspilled tears .
sera took her sister gently by the hand and led her downstairs .
she yelled for some of the older servants and said , take margaery down to the celler and barricade it shut .
open only if i knock twice , knock twice , and knock five times after that , like this .
she knocked on the wall in demonstration .
ms. sera , what about you ?
one of the older women asked .
yes , sera thought to herself .
what about her ?
just take care of my sister .
with the dread coiling around her stomach and her breathing already growing labored , sera could stand it no more and ran upstairs to her parents bedroom .
she approached the doorway and swung open the doors onto the balcony where she stood outside on the second floor , overlooking the courtyard .
the ancestral lands of her bloodline stretched out far along the plains and the hills in the distance .
the churning gray clouds blotted out the sunlight and cast a pall over the scope of the earth .
she could feel her skin crawl as she waited .
as she stood , searching desperately for signs of her loved ones , she thought on the many years she had spent , cloistered away on the isolated farmlands .
she had played in those fields with her siblings , and to think , those same playgrounds would play host to something so terrible .
she could see her father now , in memory , striding forth in royal attire , returning from service in the solarian ranks so long ago .
she had thought that after being absent so long , her father could finally return for good and retire .
that he could finally play with them ...
it never made any sense to her , what they did in the cities and councils .
their decrees and their idols for worship , their mandates and designs ringing so hollow across the years .
all she wanted was to stay home with her mother and her father , and take care of her sister and her brother .
all she wanted was to be a good daughter .
and all she could be now was powerless .
the moments passed away , and with them bled her heart .
she knew her father would save them .
he had commanded troops so many times before , and had been awarded so many honors .
she knew everthing would be okay .
but if she was so sure , why did she grip the railing so tightly ?
why did her heart race when she saw the dark figures trailing their way straight towards her ?
why were there shadowy horsemen , mounted in strange , wicked armor wielding blades ?
as she looked upon the brown skinned men approaching the house , she could see that behind them they dragged bodies .
she looked upon the scene unfolding before her in the courtyard , frozen like the others had been not so long ago .
she looked and refused to believe .
that is , until a dark , ornamented man in brutal armor saw her on the balcony and suddenly grinned as he produced the blood spattered body of her father .
sera screamed , a primal , throat wrenching screech of a kind of horror she had never before known .
she could feel her heart collapse and her body break .
she couldnt breathe .
she could only feel her most sacred love and honor die within her body in an instant .
little girl !
the grinning man yelled in broken solarian .
why so sad ?
i kill your papa ?
and in another instant she felt her pain turn to hatred .
her face contorted , her muscles burnt , and in that moment she understood the rage that drove people to kill other people .
the man , apparently the leader , grinned like he was a vendor trying to sell her sweets .
listen girl , the grinning man shouted to her from the courtyard .
i know you have many precious things in home .
i could break into home or burn you out , but i not want to damage precious things .
more damage , less money !
so let us in little girl and we will spare you and others .
let us in , and we will spare you .
the doors opened to reveal pillars of flame , burning as the screams and running shadows mingled in the night .
the flames , the bodies , and the grinning man , smiling with bloody lips as he took a bite out of the womans neck .
the flash of vision passed , and sera recoiled .
burn in hell you ravinian filth !
i have thirty armed men waiting for you inside , ready to cut your heart out !
but the grinning man only laughed , a sound that ignited sera with a hatred so black she could feel herself being eaten alive .
okay , little girl , the man said , motioning to his men .
and as they parted , sera felt her stomach sink , as they revealed her mother and her brother .
the grinning man smiled .
what about now ?
at the sight of them , seras heart split .
the agony was overwhelming , to see them bound , beaten , her mother tearing at her gag with her teeth .
but she knew the blood drinker would offer them no mercy , and kill them all anyway .
somehow , she had known when her mother had left that it was for the last time .
in a brutal motion , her soul already crushed , sera turned her back and slammed the balcony doors to the sounds of muffled screams .
brace yourselves against the barricades !
sera shouted as she came down .
the servants feverishly held against the furniture as the blows quickly began to rain upon the windows outside .
as the onslaught commenced , a spear errupted from one of the windows , skewering one of the servants in the chest .
quickly , one after the other , the servants ran .
amidst the screams , sera hurried to the wall and saw the glass case holding an ancestral sword passed down her line .
with a grunt , she hurled an urn into the case , shattering the glass , and lifted the blade .
as she picked it up , she could feel the weight pulling her arms down .
with effort , she carried the blade towards the cellar door , knocking in the specified sequence .
after a moment of strained noise , the door opened and sera dove quickly in .
as the stores of food and amphoras of wine were returned against the door , sera went straight down towards the sobs .
she found her sister curled up in a dark corner , dimly lit by a smattering of candles .
putting the blade away , she gripped her sister and held her tight , her own sobs becoming violent as she buried her face in margaerys neck .
sera , i dont want to play hide and seek anymore , margaery said .
me neither , sera said , knowing well the nature of the seeker .
she kissed her sister on the temple and held her as if her life depended on it .
they waited in silence , the older servants wheezing and crying .
that waited in dread for the inevitable .
and when the knocks finally did come , they did so with violence .
axeheads split the wood of the door and shattered it into splinters .
with animal force , the intruders rammed against the barrier , knocking down amphoras with every charge .
the noise of the shattered vessels rang like volcanic explosions down the cellar , the wine dark liquid pouring down the stairs .
hastily , sera put out the candles , sword in hand , and waited , silencing the doddering old ones with harshness .
when what was left of the barrier collapsed , they could see dark forms blotting out the light of the entrance .
they stood , executioners , drinking in the fear like ambrosia .
finally , step by step , they lowered torches downward .
an old man wheezed .
a sword was thrust down his throat .
the firelight revealed an aged woman , who dropped to her knees in supplication .
the man raised his blade and cleaved into her neck , letting loose a spout of dark blood .
and as the man made his way past the stacked foods and wines , he placed his torch in a torch holder on the wall and paused to dip his tongue in an amphora and quench his thirst .
with rage , sera charged , swinging the heavy blade upward , only to hear it clatter to the floor .
she felt her throat constrict , the man gripping her brutally by the gullet .
and as the burning light of the torch lit the side of his animal face , she could see that the man was indeed smiling .
with insurmountable force , the grinning man forced sera downward .
you smart little girl , the man said .
you know i kill you both way .
she whimpered as he brought her down to the floor .
but one thing you not know , the grinning man said , baring his fangs .
i kill you easy or i kill you hard .
she screamed as he forced her open , and cried as his body fell upon her .
it took her a moment to realize his body had stopped moving .
as sera looked up , she saw her father !
but as she witnessed the torchlight fall upon him , she remembered that her father was dead .
this man was tall and pale , a brutal faced man standing in dull , ravaged armor of the old solarian republic .
he sheathed his gladius and reached down to pull off the body , effortlessly , as if the monstrous ravinian weighed nothing at all .
sera sat trying to right herself , her clothes wet with sickly blood .
and as she looked at this solarian commander , with his men undoubtedly killing more in her home above , she could only manage to ask , how did you find me ?
the commander stood expressionless as he helped her up .
i could have seen your screams a thousand years away .
the smell of lavender and spring time washed over her senses , filling her lungs and her chest with a giddy sensation that she had not experienced in a lifetime .
she opened her eyes and watched as the curve of her foot breached the bubbly water , the cold air touching her toes , retracting quickly back into the comfort of the warm water .
the candles at the edge of the bathtub glowed warmly against her eyelids as they slowly closed once again .
she wondered how long she had drowsed off .
then again , did it really matter ?
she giggled .
the warm water and the suds felt so good .
but just as she felt herself returning to sleep , she heard a knock at the door .
miss , a muffled voice spoke from behind the door .
larissa submerged herself in the water once more .
maybe if she waited long enough , the woman would go away .
but as she emerged from the water , the knocking continued .
she sighed , nettled .
yes ?
the lord cornwell wishes to speak with you .
out in a minute .
enjoying the bubbles for a moment more , she forced herself up in a huff and stepped out of the bath .
what does he want ?
larissa said , opening the door , robed , as she dried out her hair with a towel .
he did not say , madam .
well , show him in then , larissa said , tossing the woman her wet towel .
yes madam .
larissa fell backwards into her bed , the soft down of the pillows coming up to meet her .
the candlelight of the room was so gentle and the burning incense so soothing that if the lord cornwell didnt come soon , she would drift off to sleep once again .
i take it everything is to your satisfaction ?
larissa opened her eyes .
lord cornwell stood before her .
the man was awfully quiet when he wanted to be .
yes , yes , everythings wonderful .
did you manage to get any marigolds like i asked you ?
im afraid not , my lady .
its been quite hectic as of late .
im afraid i havent gotten around to it as of yet .
shame , i should have liked some , larissa said , looking at her fingernails .
yes , well , i trust everything else these past weeks have at least been better than living in a local police barracks .
oh , certainly .
but living in a pig sty would have been better than living in that place .
so you say .
my lady , ive other matters to discuss with you .
then by all means , discuss .
yes , well , this should not be a matter of issue or alarm , but there are a few dominion agents that would like to clarify some things with you .
thats fine , send them in .
well , theyre not here at the moment .
then send them in when they arrive .
if im sleeping , however , id rather not be disturbed .
i can meet them in the morning in that case .
im afraid they wont be coming here .
we are to meet them at another location .
another location ?
where ?
a small distance out from fort kelly outside ?
im not going outside .
im not setting foot outside the fort walls .
well , my lady , im afraid we dont have much choice .
you may not have much choice , but i most certainly do , larissa said , turning her back to him as she rolled over on her bed .
my lady , cornwell said , crouching near her bed .
these men are extremely important and they are in dire need of your aid .
your assistance is absolutely critical .
you have information that they are in need of .
larissa grumbled .
please my lady , i shall be with you every step of the way .
i promise you , no harm shall come to you whilst i live .
swear it as a lord ?
larissa said , her voice muffled by the down of a silken pillow .
on my honor as a lord of the dominion , noble born servant of the empire everlasting .
what say you ?
after a moment , larissa rolled back and faced lord cornwell .
i say , fine .
but only if you promise me some marigolds .
cornwell smiled .
then its an agreement .
pack your things and dress warmly for travel .
i will be waiting outside your room , he said , making towards the exit .
wait , what ?
she said , getting up in her bed .
were leaving now ?
why , yes .
our meeting is soon , we must make good time .
yeah , but i was thinking like in a couple days , or something but he had already left .
blast it .
she didnt want to get up from bed , let alone go out into the wilderness in the dead of night .
it was not as if she was scared .
she knew she was safe with lord cornwell .
but she was tired , and sleepy , and the bed felt so comfy .
she got up though , put on a nice , warm dress and a heavy , embroidered shawl , and threw some books , a mirror and some other things into her pack .
walking out the door , she muttered to herself silently .
she would go , but she would not be happy about it .
as she passed through the doorway of her quarters , she found herself in a much more austere hallway , empty , dark .
her shoes pressed against the wooden floor , leading her on , the stone walls glowering at her to either side .
lord cornwell had prepared a rather nice room for her , she had to admit , but it was merely a speck of softness within the stone beast they called fort kelly .
the night they had arrived , it had been quite dark , and she had been quite tired , and as such managed to notice little of her surroundings .
she merely found herself waking from a nice , comfy bed the next morning , and had asked few questions after that .
the guards didnt generally like her leaving her room , and she had no problem complying with that .
who would want to explore such an otherwise miserable place ?
but now , with only a few torches along the hallway interrupting the dark of night , she walked warily .
the stone of the walls did not seem pleased by her presence .
she felt like a trespasser , a girl who had gotten herself lost , ending up somewhere she didnt quite belong .
larissa almost turned around to return to the room , but upon seeing that the door behind was shut , she resumed her pace , reaching the end of the hall , descending into the shadow of the staircase below .
armored guardsmen moved back and forth through the torchlight , the flickering flames reflecting the warm light of interrupted night .
she made her way past them , attempting not to draw attention to herself , though it was probably an effort in futility .
some of the soldiers looked at her briefly as they went about their business , while others looked longer , the rims of their liquid , black eyes catching just enough light to cut them out of their shadowy sockets .
some gazed deeply , penetratingly .
she wrapped the shawl about her dress more tightly , a sudden chill taking to her chest .
looking about , larissa hoped that she was not lost .
she thought she had known where she was going , but the ominous corridors were beginning to convince her otherwise .
she had spent most of her time in her room well , all of her time , really .
this was the first time she had been out in a while .
but as she wandered through the network of dim hallways , she found herself suddenly alone .
the old stones of the walls looked on sightlessly at her , or perhaps at nothing in particular .
the cold , oppressive breath of the fortress seemed to fill her lungs .
it felt heavy in her chest , weighing down her breathing , displacing any scent she retained of spring with that of cold stone weathering the centuries silently .
a shadow crept over her vision .
she turned in shock to see a group of men walking past her .
darkly clad , with darkness smeared over their faces , they traveled , not in file like most soldiers she had seen before , but haphazardly , almost more of a pack , feral beasts of the night , some hooded , some cloaked , some more heavily armored , some less , each with their rifles slung across their backs , seeming more like blades amidst the firelight and the darkness .
not one glanced at her , their piercing eyes focused fixedly forward .
and like that , they were gone , leaving larissa staring out into the darkness , trying to conceive of their dissolution .
she tried to put it out of mind as she spied a soft light coming from a doorway down the hall .
she approached it and peaked around the corner , finding herself looking out at one of the courtyards , grateful that she had managed to escape from that stone prison in one piece .
there were some practice dummies and targets lined up , with wooden blades lying around in piles .
why men would waste their time with such silly games , she would never know .
why not spend time studying instead , reading a good book ?
my lady , cornwell said , approaching her from the side , slowly .
all right , my lord cornwell , shall we depart then ?
yes .
ive a horse waiting near the gate , come along .
they walked out under the dim moonlight , the skies clouded with a certain intangible smokiness that colored the night a muted shade of lifeless purple .
it was not the moonlight of romance , but of stark , imperfect reality a reality that she wanted no part of .
she had never seen the main gate of the fort .
they had entered through a side entrance that night so seemingly long ago , and so they use another such passageway to make their exit .
cornwell led her through some foliage and unlocked the barred gate , the metal hinges creaking slightly , making larissa cringe .
they passed into the darkness , and after a few long moments of blindness , she found herself led down a stairwell , and then they were outside once more , the door behind them closed , blending once more into the rest of the wall .
cornwell untethered his white horse , mounted it , and pulled larissa up behind him .
she hated that part .
and now she would have to deal with that vile horse stench .
it was a fairly well groomed horse , no doubt , but the stench was always there , no matter how clean the beast may be .
the horse cantered gingerly down the rocky hillsides , passing through the thick foliage cautiously .
looking over her shoulder , she saw the fortress begin to quickly disappear amidst the trees and the landscape .
she wondered how they had even managed to find it in the first place .
so then , larissa said .
so then indeed , lord cornwell replied .
so now where are we off to , journeying forth in the middle of the night ?
oh , a ways north of here .
the dominion agents will be waiting for us in a clearing .
it will probably be a while .
thats okay , larissa said .
not as if i have anything better to do .
the trees were relatively thick , dry and unwelcoming .
they were in wayland now , and this was not a land of plenty .
it used to be inhabited much more significantly in the past , even relatively recently , but there had been a war , if she remembered correctly .
she forgot between whom , but it was bad enough to leave the place pretty desolate .
and pretty desolate it seems to have remained lord cornwell ?
larissa said .
yes my lady ?
i saw some creepy men back at the fort .
they were really quiet , and dressed all dark .
who were there ?
rifles ?
painted skin ?
yeah .
theyre special forces .
irregulars .
part of the dominion asymmetric warfare division .
not men you want to encounter in the dead of night .
well , not men you really want to encounter at all , honestly .
it looked like they were headed somewhere .
probably headed south , towards valencia .
why though ?
i thought valencia had been annexed by the dominion ?
lord cornwell stifled a chuckle .
for a young , well born girl , you certainly have an interest in affairs that oughtnt concern you .
but that country has been in strife on and off for centuries , and its recently begun to swell up once again .
the fightings starting to get rather bad , from what i hear .
certainly not the time to be vacationing there , that much is for certain .
people vaction there ?
inner dominion nobles , mostly .
its a beautiful country , not terribly far , and a hint of danger makes the land that much more alluring to those that can afford protection .
id like to go some day .
my lady , it shall be a while yet till we reach our destination .
feel free to rest your eyes , if youd like .
we shant be moving very quickly wayland is a harsh master , and we must travel with care , lest we displease it .
all right , lord cornwell .
but larissa couldnt sleep , not out there , in the wilderness , in the middle of the night , on horseback .
there was a certain spookiness to the air that made her feel uneasy .
this was not country to close ones eyes while passing through .
indeed , she had the feeling that this was country to keep ones eyes wide open and alert .
but as the night passed on , and as she felt the cool air upon her face , she found herself thinking of valencian knights in splendor , galloping across the fields on their graceful horses , the sun spilling across their flowing cloaks , their flowing manes , the darkness giving way to light .
and when she opened her eyes , the light remained , though the warmth had given way to a chill , with a distinct hint of a harshness she had not quite experienced before .
there was white .
no , it was snow .
well , white snow , in piles and in sheets , here and there , the dried grass peeking through in clumps .
pine trees surrounded her , and off in the distance she could make out the beginnings of an early morning sun lighting up the sky with a cold illumination .
through the trees she could see a small clearing , half covered in snow .
the horse came to a halt , and lord cornwell dismounted .
come , my lady , we have arrived .
with cornwells help , she dismounted as well , landing on the ground as well as she could .
where are we ?
larissa asked , as she walked with lord cornwell towards the clearing .
north , he replied .
how far did we travel ?
she said , yawning .
quite a ways .
i had to drive the steed faster than i would have liked to make time .
i hope i didnt wake you during the course of the journey .
oh , no , nothing to worry about .
larissa said .
the man was kind .
so about these men .
what should i say to them ?
just answer their questions truthfully and honestly , to the best of your ability .
you can do no more , and no one can reasonably expect any more than that .
you are doing a great thing here , my lady .
your aid will prove invaluable in clearing this region of the disease that so infects it .
i will do my best , larissa said .
do you promise ?
i promise .
this was the least she could do , after all .
it was a strange place , quiet , and aside from some stones and dead grass , the clearing was quite empty , though the trees stood quite close , here and there .
they must have gotten quite far north for there to be snow in the summer time .
larissa didnt give it much thought , though .
it got quite cold back at home even in the summer they were so far north , so close to the mountains .
no wonder no one lived to the north it was always so cold , so bitter , so unwelcoming .
and ever so drab and colorless at that .
so when are they coming ?
larissa asked as they stopped in the clearing .
they should be here shortly , my lady .
larissa sat down on a rock .
well , the sooner we can get this over with , the sooner we can get out of this wilderness .
i think im going to need another bath after this .
not to worry , my lady .
they should be here shortly .
larissa pondered her fingernails .
they had gotten scratched somehow .
she would need to file them again once they got back .
well , she supposed she should have brought a file with her .
in any case , it would have to wait .
so lord cornwell , larissa said .
yes my lady ?
he replied , looking off to the side .
i never really asked you about yourself .
cornwell turned .
well , theres not much to ask about , im afraid .
sure there is .
like , where do you hail from ?
oh , here and there .
cant say i really hail from anywhere in particular .
where do you hail from ?
larissa laughed halfheartedly .
well , nowhere .
the middle of nowhere , to be precise .
i cant say i give much weight to ones place of origin .
doesnt quite mean much in the long run , i find .
sure it does , larissa said .
where you come from gives a general idea about all sorts of things .
and like what , exactly ?
well , culture , religion , and all that cornwell snorted .
you disapprove ?
larissa asked .
of what ?
culture ?
religion , and all that ?
well , i was just asking what ?
exactly what were you asking , then ?
why , well , nothing , really .
sorry i asked .
larissa stared at her hands in silence .
im sorry my lady , ive just been under a great deal of stress as of late .
many things going on in the world today demanding my attention .
understandable , larissa said , nodding .
she looked out at the trees .
so what do you like to do in your free time ?
what free time ?
cornwell said , chuckling dryly .
oh , come on , you must like to do something in your time off .
fucking whores .
larissa turned , and felt her chest erupt in a torrential terror strong and sudden enough to rip her innards to shreds .
her spine lashed out , uncoiling , her muscles screaming , urging her joints into action .
but as her body shot forward , her feet scrambling to cover as much ground as her legs would allow , she felt herself crumple , her chest locking up under the force of a vice .
he likes to fuck whores in his free time .
larissa gasped , trying to breathe , the fear coiling up like a snake in her throat , suffocating her as if she were its prey , soon to devoured .
only ones with big juicy tits , though .
he doesnt like the small mounds .
only big and juicy will do for a lord .
pays extra if they squirt .
but then it loosened , ever so slightly , yet it was enough for her voice to slither through the opening , erupting forth in a black howl that she could not even contemplate controlling .
my god !
shut her up !
sweet mother , my ear drums !
there was nothing she could do to control herself .
her arms flailed out wildly , her voice cracking as she inhaled and forced out every bit of discord she was capable of producing .
shut her up , for gods sake !
what the hell am i supposed to do ?
i dont know !
hit her or something .
hit her ?
im not hitting her .
you hit her !
what do i look like , a savage ?
youre the one who suggested it !
she felt her face explode , the pain radiating through her flesh and into her skull .
all functioning stopped .
all thought stopped .
only silence , prolonged .
good god man .
she all right ?
the cold ground pressed up against her face .
her body lay , uncoiled , thunderstruck , waiting to be consumed .
check her .
little lady .
you all right ?
looks like shes unconscious .
well , im not carrying her .
fuck you , bel .
hey , mr. lordy lords .
was that really necessary ?
you gon na say something ?
you just knocked the brains out of our little lady here .
silence .
it was long overdue .
foggy images passed across her vision , images of men , of women , of fire , children , burning in flames .
screams , blades , soldiers screams .
a man pulling out a blade from a body in disgust .
the man , donning a mask to hide from the shame .
and as her vision cleared , she saw looking down upon her the face of a demon .
it was gold , contorted , with strange , flowing patterns , carvings , symbols .
it was mesmerizing .
she tried screaming , but all that came out was a groan .
shes alive , hassad , get her up .
prop her against the rock .
here little lady , have some water .
shed be better off if you poured some of it over her face .
yeah , probably .
gon na be one hell of a shiner .
she winced , the shock of cold igniting her nerves .
she opened her eyes again .
two demons , darkly clad , and one man .
no , three demons , after all hey , little lady .
do you hear me ?
can you get up ?
enough , leave her .
you two are late .
yeah , well , youll have to forgive us .
not like trekking through hostile wilderness on foot and on short notice ever presents any delays to people of class .
hassad shouldve brought horses , then wouldnt that have been smart .
fuck you , cornwell .
if you had any idea what we had to go through to get here while you sat on your fat ass fucking whores at a prim dominion fort hassad , enough .
now then , lets get this sorry affair over with .
we can take her from here .
youre relieved of your duties , lord cornwell .
yes , relieved , quite .
but there is the matter of reimbursement .
reimbursement ?
yes .
you see , while i was baby sitting our fine little lady , i was away from other matters , and it has cost me quite a bit in losses .
losses ?
you slimy fuck hassad .
silence .
here , this should be more than enough to cover expenses and losses .
you are free to depart .
praise be to the gods after a while , the sound of hoof beats trailed away in the distance .
why did you pay him ?
we dont have time to waste .
now quit questioning me and get this girl on her feet .
she felt her body ascend , but through no will of her own .
little lady , seriously , stand up .
she breathed shallowly , and planted her feet as best she could .
her head spun , but after a while , the scenery settled , the trees returning to the ground , the ground remaining steady in her eyes .
better .
see ?
that wasnt so hard , now was it ?
she turned to the voice .
a starkly clad figure , armored in strange metals and leathers , a dark cloak draped over his shoulders , a hood enshrouding his head , and a hideous golden mask appearing from within its shadow .
she winced , her own face contorting under the force of the visage .
oh , come on .
dont cry .
im not that ugly .
of course you are .
why do you think he wears that mask ?
and pray tell , mighty belarius the mighty mighty , why dost ye wear such a mask your great and mighty self ?
too comely .
world cant handle it .
lets get going , we dont have time .
she felt herself moving forward , though her legs werent receiving any commands that she was aware of .
yet they moved regardless .
dammit , come on .
no reason to cry .
were not going to hurt you , i swear come on , whats wrong ?
shes just been abducted by two heavily armed , masked , hooded men , and youre asking her whats wrong ?
you do realize that youre one of those masked , hooded men ?
yeah , bel , and guess what ?
youre the other .
im well aware .
seriously bel , what the hell are we doing ?
same thing weve always done whatever weve needed to .
god dammit bel !
shes a fucking teenage girl .
what the hell use is she to anybody ?
well , hassad , i dont know if you realize this , but men like to stick themselves in things , and age isnt really you know what i mean !
yes , and you know the answer .
its not our job to ask questions .
were hunters .
we go forth , and we hunt .
yeah , well i didnt sign up for this shit .
you knew damn well what you were getting into when you took on that mask .
this is what happens when you pledge yourself to a cause .
sometimes you just have to do whats required of you , no matter how questionable .
the woods encroached on them from either side .
she could no longer see much farther than a small way into the distance .
she was in the heart of the wilderness , and now more than ever , she knew there was no going back .
she didnt think .
there was nothing to think about .
the dream was dead , and the nightmare was real .
and when living a nightmare , there was nothing more one could do other than pretend away ones own existence .
man , that cornwell .
one cold customer hassad said .
ive nothing to say about him .
well i do .
that fucking , pompous , brute of a enough .
he is what he is .
which is a fuck .
perhaps .
but he does his job , he serves his purpose .
his temperament and his ethics notwithstanding notwithstanding ?
i think theyre very withstanding !
you know , we wouldnt even be in this situation if fucking salazar didnt fuck the whole fucking thing up .
perhaps you ought to tone down the language a bit ?
i mean belarius gestured towards her .
yeah , sorry little lady .
im just pissed .
im sure you understand .
im sure she understands .
you being her abductor , she being the abductee .
fucking salazar sorry that salazar .
hes such a bloody drama queen .
he has a propensity for theatrics , certainly , i wont argue that .
but he always gets the job done .
well , not always , apparently .
i mean , how does he kidnap the wrong girl ?
a mistake , of course .
we all make them , in case you havent noticed .
yeah , but hes a hunter !
for gods sake , hes a fu a , a a hunter !
i will say , hassad , all these years of working together , its only now that i realize the true breadth of your vocabulary and sophistication .
fuck you sorry .
godammit !
man , when i see salazar when you see salazar , you will treat him with the same respect that you treat all your brethren .
man , this is one big muck up .
nice substitution .
yeah , well muck you !
and why dont you go muck yourself in the mucking mass while youre at it ?
belarius laughed .
it was a strange , unearthly sound , ringing underneath the metal of the mask .
and yet it was oddly reassuring .
he must have seen her looking at him , though , as he turned to face her as they walked .
so then , miss wagner , have you recovered ?
larissa was silent .
perhaps you can tell us , belarius said , exactly why are we after you ?
because youre worth a dragons dick in gold .
ain tha right ?
muck .
he was a greasy little creature , with hollow cheeks and an oily comb over , thick furs covering his clothes , gold chains weighing down his neck .
he spat , twirling the point of his knife around the tip of his finger as several large men , several feet taller than him , appeared behind him from the shadow of the trees .
minko , belarius said .
thas right .
good ol minko , right on cue .
how does he do it ?
he said , exposing his rotting teeth .
minko , belarius said .
you were paid .
your men were paid .
everyone was paid .
what do you want ?
oh , this isn about any payment .
no , this is just a business proposition .
listen , hassad said , normally wed love to have a nice little chat with our favorite little minko any day of the week .
but right now , we have to make rendezvous .
so if you dont mind well , i have to say that i kind of do mind .
you see , whether you realize this or not , that little pretty you have with you has a bounty the size of a , a dragons dick ?
hassad said .
dammit you costumed goon !
dont interrupt me !
in any case , its a big fuckin bounty .
enough so i can retire and have my prick sucked dry till i die .
damn it minko , why do you have to put this kind of imagery in my head ?
hassad said .
but seeing as im a generous sort of man , im willing to split it with you goons 70 30 , of course , finders fee and all that .
but were the ones who found her , hassad said .
and i found you , minko said , licking his knife .
finders fee .
so generous of you , belarius said , but she comes with us .
well then minko said , picking his tooth with his knife .
thats gon na be a problem .
he snapped his fingers , and the men behind him drew their weapons .
get out of here !
belarius said , drawing his blade .
come on , hassad said , grabbing larissa .
as they rushed away , larissa looked over her shoulder to see a shock of blood erupting as the golden demon pulled out his blade from the chest of one of the men .
hassad gripped larissas arm tightly , leading them away from the noise of blood in the forest .
in his other hand , he held his own blade , drawn silently and instinctively .
larissa knew that if he wanted to , he could have slain her without even arousing so much as a sideways glance from her .
where are we going ?
she asked as she stumbled along .
ye gods , she speaks !
where are we going ?
good question , he said , wading through the forest branches , patches of snow giving way under the pressure of his militant boots .
wont they kill him ?
larissa asked .
there had been many men waiting for them there .
dont worry about bel , hassad said , half chuckling .
those goons he ducked quickly as an axe embedded itself in the tree behind , where his skull had been just a moment before .
a large , bald , bull of a man ripped the axe out of the trunk with such force that the entirety of the tree trembled in the weapons passing , bits of bark going everywhere .
the bull roared and swung his axe overhead .
hassad , on the ground , rolled to the side , the axehead burying itself in the ground nearby .
he whipped out his sword , and with a vicious motion of his arm , carved into the bull like a hunk of meat .
bloodied , the bull charged forward , mauling into hassad , the force of his shoulder knocking him to the ground .
within a moment , the bull was on top of hassad , his thick hands bearing down on his neck .
hassad lay struggling , his sword knocked to the side .
he grasped at the massive trunk of the mans arm , bearing down on him , and larissa watched as hassads movements began to slow .
the bull was bleeding , but he was crazed , a deep madness set upon his eyes .
the pulsing veins in his arm trembled with force , the dark hairs on his arm trickling drops of blood here and there .
larissa watched , and was at a loss .
she stood , looking as hassad struggled .
she wondered if he even had a face under that mask .
no , his face was his mask , and he would die as such .
his body would rot there , his armor would decay , and his face would be lost forever .
or not .
she scrambled over to the blade lying in the dirt and tossed it towards the struggling figures .
hassad grasped the hilt with his hand and , with a flash and a flurry , the bull collapsed , red scarlet pouring forth to mingle with the mud and the snow .
after a moment , hassad heaved , rolling the beast of a man onto the ground beside him .
fucking mother hassad said , attempting to stand , grasping his neck .
little lady you are one awesome little lady .
he paused , catching his breath , rasping .
we need to oh fuck .
out from the trees charged three men .
hassad brought forth his blade and began to circle them , shouting , run !
larissa ran .
she turned and made her way through the thick forest , pine needles skittering everywhere as her shoes hit the ground , one after the other .
the sky was pale white overhead , the overcast light forming around the boughs of the pines as they swayed back and forth with the winds .
she was cold .
she was sweating .
she panted fiercely , praying that she would not trip and fall .
she didnt know where she was going .
her pack slung across her back bounced back and forth , her shawl flowing behind in her wake .
but she could feel her veins coursing , her blood pumping to the point of pain .
she felt dizzy , lightheaded .
and then she was on the ground .
and as she turned over , she saw the bearded face of a monster looking down upon her .
she tried getting up , but his boot pressed down upon her chest , forcing her back down .
she squeaked in pain as he pressed down harder and harder .
she tried to look away as the man lowered his head to hers .
look at me , he said , as he gripped her mouth with his scarred hand , forcing her head to turn .
his face was scored with marks , both by blades and by time .
his eyes were harsh and remorseless , as if nothing he did could ever weigh down upon his heart .
do you have any idea what youre worth ?
he said , his hot , rotten breath passing through his yellowed , crooked teeth , and onto larissas face .
she attempted to scream , but his hand clenching her mouth left it only a quiet , unremarkable muffle .
as he ground his knee into her chest , he drew a knife and pressed it against her neck , releasing her mouth , but forcing her to look upwards lest she press the flesh of her neck too far onto the edge of the blade .
tears welled up in her eyes , from pain , from fear , and her throat quivered .
she could not even scream .
he lowered his head even further and whispered , do you know how long its been since ive had a proper whore ?
she could hear the pitch of her voice shoot up , the life from her body draining .
she wanted to die , to push her neck onto the blade so nearby , but no matter how much she tried , she couldnt bring herself to do it .
it was as if she no longer had any control over herself anymore .
what had she come to ?
she wanted to die .
but as he felt him begin to grasp at her , she found herself whispering coarsely , where where do you hail from ?
the man scowled .
what ?
she coughed , trying to find her voice .
where do you hail from ?
the man stared at her , as if she had just offered him a cocktail .
whats it a business a yours ?
nothing .
no business .
just curious , thats all .
you shut up .
scream if you like , but itll do you no good , you hear ?
fine then , she said , looking towards the sky .
i wont scream .
the man looked as if she had just insulted him .
i said you can scream if you like !
larissa screamed .
happy ?
the man struck her brutally across the face .
dont you dare talk back to me .
you understand ?
youre gon na take what im gon na give you , and youre gon na scream while i give it to you .
you hear ?
and then im gon na drag you out and claim the bounty for myself .
and youre gon na like it .
you understand ?
oh , i understand .
he struck her once again .
i said dont talk back to me , you fucking whore !
i will make you pay for that , you fucking larissa blinked and the man was gone .
her face was wet , and so was her chest .
she wiped her brow to find that it was drenched in blood .
well ello there , pretty .
the face of a rat appeared above her .
good help , so hard to find .
get her up .
is it really so hard to follow goon stupid instructions ?
i mean , am i righ ?
i said , am i righ ?
several men muttered their assent .
larissa found herself hoisted up , surrounded by several men , and minko .
one of them had an extremely bloody mace .
she looked to the side and saw the bearded man , his head half caved in .
she felt her stomach lurch and vomited onto the ground .
oh , come on .
like you never seen a guys head smashed in before , minko said .
now then , shackle her up , and lets get going .
my prick is begging to be dry .
hey larissa was gone .
she was running .
she didnt know where .
vomit clung to her lips , the taste still fresh in her mouth .
she didnt look back there was no point .
she could hear the labored breathing behind her , the shouting .
but she paid it no mind .
the trees passed by on either side , the forest blurring into nothingness .
the ground was nothing .
there was only the sky beyond , the wind in her soul , and the life flowing through her veins .
she felt this even as she plummeted downward into the abyss .
thank you for reading .
the story continues with sifter part 2 , which you can pick up at the same place you purchased this installment .
you can also purchase the story in its complete form as an ebook or in print .
if you liked what you read , then you may also be interested in mitul mistrys visionary epic , blood for culture .
it follows the mercenary gideon greythorne as he embarks on an epic fantasy adventure to save the world only his adventure is being written by joseph anderson , a college dropout who packs boxes in the suburbs .
a work equal parts literary , imaginative , and satirical , blood for culture is two novels layered into one .
it is also available at your distributor of choice where you can read a free sample .
for more , you can visit the authors website at mitulmistry.com writing .
you can find his blog at mitulmistry.com blog and follow him on twitter mmystic thank you for supporting the author and , once again , thank you for reading !
lillyans by oliver letz copyright 2012 oliver letz smashwords edititon smashwords edition , license notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
for edith without you i would not see nor hear nor talk and definitely , i would not write .
acknowledgements lillyans was inspired by the question what a society would look like that was entirely based on the teachings of abraham www.abraham hicks.com and the quirky abrahamster cartoons of lilly fluger www.lillyarts.com which are based on its wisdom .
i would like to express my deepest appreciation for the tireless effort these sages make to bring the eternal light of wisdom to those of us ready to hear it .
chapter 1 a new adventure good morning , said a soft female voice , it is four a.m. , today is friday , april twenty one , twenty three sixteen good morning , it is ... john taylor cancelled the alarm clock before it was able to repeat the announcement .
i heard you the first time , he grumbled with a sleep drunken voice .
switching on the lights he afforded himself the luxury of a few more moments in the cozy warmth of his bed , basking in the building anticipation of the days to come .
adventure !
what an exhilarating thought , the journey he had been preparing for so long would finally begin .
taylor swung his legs out into the morning chill .
april could still have a bite in the air this time of day .
with his feet he reached for the thin rug that covered the bare steel floor of his living quarters .
the old shipping container , which he had converted into his home some time ago , allowed him the convenience to live right at the airport next to his airplanes , hangars and repair shops .
taylor had barely pulled a t shirt over his head when the door to his container flew wide open with a huge racket and a six feet tall figure dressed in black combat gear stormed into the room .
i thought you would never get out of bed .
youll sleep through the best part of the day .
come on .
hurry up .
we are all ready to go !
cody !
are you mad ?
it is pitch black night outside .
we are not going to leave until hours from now .
sit down and have a bite to eat .
did you go to sleep at all last night ?
taylor tried to keep his friend cody hunt from ruining his morning rituals .
sure , replied hunt , i went to bed right after you left my place .
oh , three hours of solid sleep , no wonder you are so perky and loud .
taylor rolled his eyes and put on the coffee .
he was not going to skip the most important meal of the day and he definitely needed some more time to wake up .
are you all packed ?
hunt wanted to know .
taylor nodded to a small backpack that leaned against the wall next to the door .
a few t shirts , underwear , a reel of fishing line , and a flash light .
i hope you remembered to pack lightly .
hunt flashed him a big grin .
i only take what i am carrying right now .
ok , taylor hesitated , just make sure you stay downwind from me after the third day of the trip .
hunt roared out in laughter , i do have a change of clothes or two here in my waist pack .
these old special ops combat suits have neat little features built in .
coffee started to sputter into the pot and taylor sat down at the small dining table offering day old bread and some cheese to his friend .
the hot coffee worked its magic to get taylors brain into gear .
you said , we are all ready to go , taylor asked hunt , where are our two tourists anyway ?
i was just trying to get you out of bed for good .
i havent seen them yet .
farmer seems to be all right , geeky but all right , hunt mused about their travel companions .
hes gon na come in handy should we really find something useful .
i dont know about spade yet , she tries to be all mysterious and secretive .
maybe someone just wants her out of the way for a few days .
anyway , she carries the safe passage certificates , so there is no way around taking her along .
ill make sure to keep her off your back , he reassured taylor .
right , you do that , you have yet to earn your keep on this trip , taylor teased .
the two men sat silently for a moment enjoying the simple meal and hot coffee .
two weeks earlier john taylor had been granted another opportunity to present his request to the council , a loosely organized governing body for the irving sector .
the camps and forts within a fifty mile radius around red river airport acknowledged the council as the authority on trade , science and security .
all the major influences in public life had their representatives at the infrequent and quite informal meetings .
harry dawg ears , one of the marshalls of the rockwall security gang had invited taylor , just come over to the airport motel friday night round eight , well hear you out .
ts gon na be fun .
when taylor opened the door to the old ballroom at the motel he could hear a heated discussion about the cost and efficiency of garbage collection and transport , which was always a favorite subject for everyone to get warmed up and reacquainted .
there was much hollering and laughing and poking fun at each other .
harry spotted taylor at the door and shouted across the room , get over here taylor .
ill shut them up so you can have your say .
with that he stood up and let out a loud high pitched whistle which got him the attention of the council long enough to motion everyone to settle down a bit .
most of you know our friend john taylor dawg ears barked , but for the few new faces , he is our resident chief pilot and a whizz with a wrench when it comes to getting airplanes back into the air .
he would like to present his pet project , which we regrettably had to reject a few times in the past because of security and resource concerns .
times have changed though , so i wish him more luck for his quest today .
john , my friend , they are all yours .
taylor stood up and cleared his throat .
he was a bit hesitant to petition a large crowd of people on his own behalf but this was his chance and he was not going to miss it .
good evening , taylor addressed the council , thank you for giving me your time to present a request that is very dear to my heart .
my name is john taylor .
many of you know me as we had various business dealings over the years , but i also see a number of new delegates in the room tonight .
its been a while since i last made my case so i will take the opportunity and start from the beginning if you all dont mind .
there were grunts and murmur of agreement from all around , so taylor continued , about two years ago we got a shipment of a few small airplanes from our friends in acquisition that were in questionable state of repair .
we still thought they could be brought back into flying condition so i started to search the central library for technical data on the planes and for any registry or logbook information i could find .
while i was knee deep in old records dating back more than fifty years , i stumbled across a few unrelated news files that grabbed my attention .
i saw reports of people who had traveled from up north and crossed the presumably deserted mountain regions of sector xxi .
they referred to the area by its old name , the ozark mountains of arkansas .
as far as i know that area had been evacuated and abandoned in the early stages of the war over two hundred years ago just like many other sparsely populated areas that were too difficult to secure against raiders or to provide with energy and supplies .
right in the middle of this assumed no mans land they came across a small population of people who seemed completely unaware of and uninvolved with the war .
now , it is not unheard of that there are pockets of outsiders camping out in the woods to get away from trouble for a while but these people seemed to have been there isolated ever since shortly after the war had started .
taylor was getting more comfortable and animated as he got deeper into the matter that had occupied his mind for the last few years .
what really grabbed my attention were the media files that were linked to the news stories .
i saw stillholos and holovids that showed healthy and laughing folks going about mostly agricultural or artistic activities .
many of them worked in the fields bringing in crops or tending to live stock .
close ups of plants and fruit showed healthy vegetation and rich yields .
i could not detect any genetic degeneration or defects in either plants or animals .
i guess i dont have to stress the difficulty we are having in getting our farming and food supply ramped up .
decades of ruthless exploitation and abusive genetic experiments have left the dna pool of our native and cultural vegetation and of our live stock depleted and in need of replenishment .
taylor paused for effect before he made an effort to drive his point home .
i believe that we can find much needed healthy and unaltered dna in sector xxi which we can use to revitalize our own growing efforts .
i want to go to the ozark and have a look for myself .
all i am asking for is a full tank of gas for my airplane and maybe two or three weeks of safe passage certificates .
ill be happy to answer any question you might have , taylor finished his short speech .
there was a short moment of silence before whispering and murmurs started all over the room , as several delegates seemed interested to learn more .
how do you intend to bring back dna if you happen to find something there ?
it was a good sign that paul meyers , the rep from the research labs started to ask practical questions .
taylor was prepared for this , well , since you asked paul , i was hoping to borrow a hand held dna scanner from your lab if you dont mind .
no way , meyers replied , these things are tricky to operate , very expensive and hard to come by .
our lab covers the area from the red river down to half the hill country and we only have three scanners in working order .
if you want a scanner you will have to take along one of my boys to make sure you bring back something useful .
you will need the help of an expert anyway to select samples and get a good spread of data .
one of my associates , tim farmer , would certainly jump at the chance to get out of here for a while , hes bright and a good kid .
as much as taylor disliked the idea to bring along passengers on this trip , the fact that they were discussing specifics gave him hope for his cause , and meyers had a point about the sample selection and correct operation of the scanner .
how do you know that the reports and images were not fabrications for propaganda ?
one of the delegates asked .
i dont really , but the reports seemed too unrelated and infrequent to have any propaganda benefit and the images and holovids were not clean and polished enough to be the works of the generals .
we all remember their handiwork and it just did not seem to fit in with that .
taylor knew that he was banking on his reputation for having his head screwed on the right way but for right now this was all he had .
did you get in contact with any of the eyewitnesses from back then ?
the questions started to come from all over the assembly .
i did track down registration data from a few of the names mentioned in the reports but all of them seemed to have vanished shortly after they had published their stories , taylor replied , i could not find any data trace even from a few years later .
how much do we know about the security status in sector xxi ?
the thin voice of self proclaimed intelligence officer mark shiner pierced through the upcoming murmur .
harry dawg ears burst out in laughter .
wouldnt this be your expertise , mr. intelligence ?
he teased .
it was quite apparent that he did not have much confidence in shiners capabilities .
yes , it would , shiner hissed back , but the thing is that sector xxi is so far off any priority chart that even my office has practically no knowledge about its status .
im afraid , he continued with a wicked smile , i can only give my blessing for your little camping trip if you take one of my junior officers along .
we need every bit of intelligence we can gather if there really is a population present in the mountains .
we know nothing about them so we need a trained resource on site to assess any possible security threat especially if you happen to bring back genetic data .
taylors head was spinning .
he did not want to seem like a petulant child but the idea of carrying another passenger , especially one who he would consider a spy did not sit well with him at all .
my plane can only carry a very limited payload , he started to complain when harry tugged on his arm and whispered , what are you doing taylor ?
you did realize that there were to be some stipulations tied to this deal , right ?
they are almost ready to give you a green light .
shut up and let me handle this .
he got up from his chair and commanded silence with a loud grunt , i think weve heard enough .
the seize fire seems stable enough that we can do without a few resources for some time .
id say we let taylor try his luck .
maybe theres a better future in it for all of us .
whos with me ?
cheering and whistling of agreement filled the room , so harry continued , john , you take farmer and the junior spy with you , put them to work and it will not be a waste .
shiner will issue the passports to his officer .
you know where to get your fuel and supplies .
dont make me look like a fool .
good luck !
that was it .
no more words were necessary .
the noise level in the assembly rose dramatically as everyone started discussing various matters at the same time .
taylor turned to harry and grabbed his arm , thank you , you wont regret this .
later that night cody hunt held his sides from laughing .
he was a simple character , at least if one judged him by his live out loud antics and his direct and uninhibited reactions to his surroundings .
the council finally lost their minds !
he blurted out when taylor told him the outcome of his latest petition .
you are really going on this trip , arent you ?
i bet you just made up all of this to get out of this rat infested hellhole on the councils dime , and who can blame you ?
you are a genius , john , no two ways about it .
he slapped taylor on the back , almost knocking him over .
you gon na have to take me too , he insisted , no way ill let you go on this adventure alone .
whos gon na watch your back if your specialists turn on you or on each other .
im coming with you .
it was clear that he would not take no for an answer .
the airport laid quietly and deserted when john taylor opened the door to his living container and stepped out into the early morning dusk .
the air was still but heavy with humidity covering asphalt and grass with glittering dew .
red river airport was the one remaining intact runway of what was once one of the busiest airports in the country , dallas forth worth international .
air traffic was very light on most days .
other than a few transport planes there was not much activity on the field since the supply of any kind of gasoline let alone aviation gas was scarce .
a small flight service office , which managed the airport with a handful of people , providing basic conveniences to the pilots and airplane crews .
weather information , availability of fuel and supplies and of course the latest gossip from around town could be obtained by stopping by the reception desk in the office lobby .
even though there was not much going on during the night the office was usually staffed around the clock .
taylor strolled across the parking ramp to the administration buildings .
the pilots lounge was empty but behind the only desk in the office he could see the familiar figure of mary pearson .
her good natured humor and her genuine efforts to make life for visiting and local pilots as uncomplicated as possible had earned her the title mother of red river and many regular visitors called her half jokingly but affectionately ma .
mary was in her early sixties and had seen the worst of the war .
she had lost two sons a long time ago in unexplained plane crashes so she treated the flight crews as her own children .
good morning ma , taylor greeted her when he entered the office .
any chance to get current weather information to the northeast of here ?
john , come in , marys face lighted up , can i get you a cup of coffee ?
well , thank you , why not , taylor replied .
it might be a few days until i get an earnest brew again .
how about that weather ?
mary put a large cup of black steaming coffee on the counter in front of taylor .
i pulled up the weather thirty minutes ago .
i knew you would show up before your trip to sector xxi .
it looks good from what i see , should be smooth sailing .
taylor studied the map prints that mary had laid out in front of him .
northern texas and arkansas were almost completely free of cloud cover , winds were light all the way up to fifteen thousand feet and the extended forecast promised a fairly stable weather pattern for at least the next two weeks .
of course one never knows about weather development when entering higher elevations and mountainous terrain but for all he could see right then , they had ideal weather conditions ahead of them .
well , ma , it seems that we are on , taylor said slowly .
it just now began to really sink in that his big adventure was about to start .
wish me luck , he added with a big smile .
you be careful out there , you hear me ?
mary was in her maternal element .
she reached behind her desk and pulled out a small paper bag .
i was able to get a box of nutrition bars at the auction last night .
i know you like these .
you never know when you might need something extra to eat .
taylor leaned over the counter and kissed mary on the cheek .
you are the best !
ill bring you back something nice , he said winking at her before he took the bag and walked back out into the night .
there was the faintest idea of a silver lining on the eastern horizon .
taylors wristwatch showed ten minutes after five .
its still going to be a good hour before we have enough light to get going , he thought to himself .
he didnt like the idea much to be flying into the rising sun for the most part of the first leg of their trip , but there was no getting around the fact that they were going east in the morning .
he had planned to follow the old interstate 30 as far as it was still recognizable and then head northeast until his fuel was down to half the tanks .
with four passengers and little luggage his plane should be good for about nine hundred miles at a low cruise speed .
taking into account that they would probably have to start from rough surface for their return flight , taylor was planning to fly about four hundred miles each way to have enough fuel reserve for unexpected circumstances .
this would put them back on the ground in the early afternoon , so they would still have plenty of daylight to assess the situation and start their hike into the mountains .
arriving back at his container taylor heard a jeep engine approaching from the main gate .
he was glad that his passengers at least had the courtesy to be on time so he would not have to rush his final briefing and loading of the plane .
the ancient vehicle made its way through the night and stopped a short distance from where taylor was waiting .
cody hunt stuck his head through the door and walked over to taylor to greet their travel companions .
as the jeep came to a halt tim farmer jumped out of the drivers seat and rushed around the car to open the passenger door .
he actually had to pull out a wrench to accomplish this .
obviously he was not accustomed to carrying female passengers who frowned upon the idea of having to crawl out of a car window .
sorry , maam , he apologized to helen spade who made her exit in a perfectly pressed khaki suit and safari hat .
it seemed there were some perks involved in being employed at the intelligence agency .
taylor stabbed his elbow into hunts rib cage .
he knew that a laughing outburst was his friends most likely reaction to the unexpected display of fashion style .
he was not in the mood to start the trip with bad blood between the two of them .
good morning , taylor started , did you two get a good nights sleep ?
i was so excited , i could hardly sleep at all , farmer replied eagerly .
he was the proverbial kid before a road trip .
very cute , spade snapped at him , would you care to help me with my luggage ?
i hope you remembered to pack lightly , taylors eyes almost popped out of his head when he saw the five feet tall trunk that farmer pulled out of the car .
i just have a duffle bag and a small case for the scanner , farmer replied , this is hers .
what the ... , cody started without a thought .
keep your pants on boys , spade laughed , i had to rent out my pad for the time of the trip .
this is everything i own .
can i store this somewhere around here until we get back ?
this here is my luggage , she added pointing at a small khaki colored backpack .
sorry , cody mumbled into the giggles that came from spade and taylor .
sure , no problem , taylor agreed , put it in my house , itll be locked and airport security is also watching out for it .
farmer hauled spades trunk into taylors living container .
that coffee smells mighty fine , sir , he said with his broad texan accent .
mind if i have a cup ?
go right ahead .
want some coffee too , helen ?
just dont take too long .
well start loading the plane in a minute here .
taylor was all business now .
since we are all here , lets recap a few ground rules so we can all get along , taylor seized the opportunity for briefing his crew .
we will be in unfamiliar terrain .
we do not know if we have to deal with any hostility .
i do not expect major complications but we have to be vigilant and keep our eyes and ears open .
if we come across strangers , i will be the only one who addresses them .
ms. spade this goes especially for you .
you are here to observe and to gather intelligence .
you are not to engage anyone we meet on your own .
we will take it slow , learn first what the situation is and then i will decide how to proceed .
i want to be very clear about this before we get going .
everybody understand ?
taylor looked everyone into the eyes to make sure he was taken seriously .
only hunt had a half disguised grin on his face .
he was very aware of the importance this trip had for taylor but he still found the intensity and unfamiliar seriousness of his friend amusing .
taylor winked at hunt to signal him that he was not the only one finding himself in uncharted waters .
he got his nods of agreement from everyone even though the defiant look on spades face was not too reassuring .
there wasnt much he could do about his travel companions loyalties so he just made a mental note to keep an eye on her and turned his attention to the business at hand .
parked behind his living quarters was taylors single engine high wing bush plane that he had used to haul supplies to camps in alaska and canada for many years .
it was a sturdy little aircraft in camouflage paint with big tires and ample ground clearance to make starting and landing from unimproved sites a breeze .
the plane had been converted from cargo duty to accommodate passengers for this trip .
the four of them and their gear would put them slightly above maximum gross weight with full tanks but since taylor knew he would take off with the tanks only at half for the flight back he was confident that they were safe to fly .
it was time to get the plane ready .
taylor and hunt pulled back the cover , unfastened the wheel chocks and packed both items neatly into the cargo compartment .
taylor always got excited when he heard the fuel truck making its way across the parking ramp .
joe , the factotum of red river airport , sat in the driver seat with an unlit cheap cigar between his teeth .
nmornig , he mumbled between his half closed lips .
i hear you get a fill on the councils tab ?
fine with me , fine with me .
he started to unwind the fuel hose and climbed up the foot peg on the right wing strut .
he fumbled with the fuel caps and struggled to get them open .
putting the filler spout into the fuel tank he gestured to taylor , would you mind firing up the pump , son ?
taylor walked over and flipped the switch as he had done so many times before .
tell you what , son , joe said with a big smile while the fuel was flowing into the tanks , you bring me back some nice cow and ill make sure your tanks will never be dry .
man , i could use a good steak !
taylor laughed and turned around to shut off the fuel pump .
it seemed that he and his adventure were the talk of the town .
when the fuel truck had left , taylor opened the engine cowl and started with the preflight inspection of his airplane .
he had rebuilt and repaired this motor more often than he cared to remember .
often it had come down to begging , borrowing or stealing parts to get it back together , but whatever he had to do to keep that engine running , it never had betrayed him in mid flight .
he knew he could always depend on it to get him safely back on the ground .
flight controls , brakes , instruments and electric systems all checked out in his tests .
it was a quarter after six and everything was progressing smoothly .
taylor had planned to get airborne by the first morning sunlight and he was well within his schedule .
he walked back over to his living container to check one more time that all the lights were off and to close the metal shutters over the windows .
he noticed that farmer had placed helen spades trunk in a corner of the living room .
its going to be five hours until youll get another chance , so who needs a bathroom ?
now is the time .
taylor announced to his travel mates .
like good little soldiers they lined up in front of the bathroom door to take turns .
he walked back outside to load their luggage , still pleasantly surprised that everyone had had followed his request to pack lightly .
the cargo compartment was still half empty which suited him just fine .
with hunt and himself in the front seats and farmer and spade in the back they should have almost ideal weight distribution according to his quick mental calculations .
he had to pack parachutes for each of them .
even in times like these there were some regulations and as this was still considered a non civilian flight into unknown territory , certain military customs needed to be followed .
at the same time this allowed him to disregard almost every other rule that civilian flights have to contend with .
he had it in writing in his passports that he was allowed to go wherever he pleased once he had left a one hundred mile radius around red river airport and kept a general northeastern heading .
one by one the others came out of the container and joined taylor at the airplane .
cody hunt was the last one out and locked the steel door with an old fashioned pad lock .
he turned around to see if anyone was watching him and quickly hid the key under a rock with the imprint beware of rattlesnakes ! .
very high security !
helen spade teased him .
should i start worrying about my stuff now or right before we get back ?
be my guest and try to pick up the key , cody challenged her back , rattlesnakes are very predictable and like to hide under the same rock day after day if you leave them alone .
still wan na try ?
spade huffed at him and turned around to hear what taylor was telling them about safety procedures .
we are all going to wear parachutes for the length of the flights , he started , this has nothing to do with my flying skills or the capabilities of the aircraft .
it is just standard requirement for military flight rules .
he took the first chute out of the plane and showed them how to put it on securely and where to pull to deploy it .
if we get into a midair collision with another plane , which is highly unlikely , me and cody will open the doors and make sure your seat belts are unbuckled .
after that you are on your own .
jump , count to three and then pull the d ring , nothing to it .
you are not going to need it unless you complain during the flight and we have to throw you out .
so , suit up and get into the plane .
it looks as if the sun is just about to come up .
time to fly !
good luck to all of us .
they each put on the parachutes and climbed into their assigned seats .
the big cargo doors made entry and exit of taylors plane very comfortable .
hunt was in the right seat next to taylor and already had the checklist out to go through the startup procedure .
both of them were flipping switches , checking gauges and twiddling with this and that .
put on the headphones and switch on the noise canceling .
if you want to talk just push the button on the cable .
better yet , dont talk , taylor advised .
everyone ready ?
he pushed the talk button on the radio control , four six charlie alpha , taylor , mary we are ready to leave .
any activity in the area ?
there was a soft crackle and then the voice of mary pearson , negative , you are the only soul flying this early in the morning .
the runway is all yours .
good luck , john !
thanks ma , taylor answered , roger that , only one nut job flying at this hour .
ill be back in a few days , keep the coffee on .
taylor out .
taylor had never gotten over the butterflies in his stomach every time he started an aircraft engine .
if he would not have felt that anticipation , he might have given up flying all together a long time before , but it was still there and fresh just like the first time he had flown solo what seemed a life time ago .
he made sure one more time that the fuel selector was in its correct position and pressed the start button .
it took only a second or two of turning over the engine for it to come to life and sing its powerful song that would propel them into the air .
he released the breaks and the plane slowly moved off its parking position .
the sun in the east started to paint the sky with red and orange brush strokes .
the stars slowly dimmed out of sight for the day .
no matter how bleak times had been in the past , this sight early in the morning behind the wheel of an airplane just about to make the leap into its natural element never failed to give john taylor a sense of hope and of life prevailing and treating him well after all .
he taxied to the south end of the runway checking once again if the flight controls had the right feel to them , his hands remembering more than his conscious mind .
at the end of the taxi way he stopped the aircraft applied the parking breaks and pushed the power control lever all the way forward .
the engine sputtered just a little before it gained speed all the way to its maximum rpm setting .
satisfied with what he read on the gauges and what he heard and felt in his seat taylor pulled back power and released the breaks .
he taxied onto the runway , turned around to see if everything was all right with his passengers and then applied full power to the engine .
he set the propeller control to maximum efficiency and the little plane started to race down the asphalt strip rapidly gaining speed .
chapter 2 war , what war ?
time warp the twenty first century with its vast technological and scientific advancements was just about to be called history .
the era of the millennium with its great spiritual teachers had come and gone .
the united states had seen the rise and fall of its first ethnic and its first female president , which to nobodys great surprise did not change anything in the way the country was lead and managed .
power was still the magic potion and once the election campaigns had been put to bed and the oaths were yesterdays news , business as usual resumed no matter who had the last say in the matter .
information technology made strides way beyond the comprehension of its casual and unsuspecting users .
it took but half of a century until it became obvious that the web that had been spun around the world with its border transcending subversiveness would start to eat itself like the snake that bites its own tail rather sooner than later .
one brightly lit black day in modern mans history an e mail message was delivered to a twelve year old girl in salt lake city , utah with parts of grandmas birthday wishes jumbled beyond recognition with the innocently looking signature line , message sanitized by censserver2866dc .
contact dhs for more information .
the first censor servers had gone online without as much as a footnote in the news media .
spying on its own citizens by all levels of government and corporations was so common place and all encompassing that this latest step to employ machines to do the dark deed was not expected to rattle anyones cage .
by then privacy protection groups had been driven so far into obscurity that they had almost no way of even communicating with each other and so their voice was only heard by a handful idealists clinging onto a humanist dream in the shadows of society .
the scope of power and repression that could be asserted by an inventive government seemed endless .
the opportunity for near total control of the masses through the power of influence was too enticing to be passed over .
television programming and commercials , internet search engines and advertising , all print media and alternative information channels and networks , on line and off line gaming and entertainment were being monitored and manipulated by a handful of super rich dotcom cartels .
they had prepared the groundwork in college dorm rooms and garage corporations long before the technology was ready to be deployed .
computer code had lain dormant for years , waiting quietly for when the time was ripe .
once network capacities and penetration into the social fabric had reached a critical mass the programs self activated and gave their creators unlimited access to and control over every communication and information channel from the security and comfort of their offshore kingdoms .
they were americas kingmakers of the day , but this one time someone had gone too far .
a twelve year old girl was outraged .
suzie truman cried , screamed and threw herself onto her bed and pounded the pillows .
she then stood up , walked over to her computer and forwarded that e mail to every address in her book with a note , hi , look what theyve done below .
ive had it .
i am going offline ... now .
see ya , suzie .
with that she unplugged the network cable and ripped out the wireless antenna from the back of her personal computer .
that was it .
a simple act of courage born out of rage , life giving rage to shake off the shackles of information slavery .
she then took out the battery of her tiny cell phone , dropped it into the proper recycle bin and casually slipped the phone into the trashcan .
she was not to be reached by means of electronic communication again .
only minutes after the message was sent suzies e mail server inbox was filled to capacity by answers and concerned inquiries from friends and family .
e mails started to be returned to the senders , message could not be delivered .
this is a permanent error ... people were trying to contend with this unexpected situation .
little suzies outcry was discussed in internet forums and blog websites gaining her the inevitable air of heroism along the way .
her classmates were the first ones who contemplated to follow their friends example .
in an act of civic defiance twenty four girls got together in the school gymnasium and disabled their own computers networking facilities .
they did not remain the only ones for very long .
an anonymous computer network specialist in utahs dhs department of homeland security data center later recalled the scene in the traffic monitoring station , it was like the lights would go out one by one and there was nothing we could do about it .
it was a chaotic situation and there was a sense of panic in the room .
we just knew that this was the beginning of something that we would be unable to stop .
on the other , not quite so official end of networking reality , samuel stone sat hunched over his computer pad for long hours these days .
he was chief of data mining for the ripdotcom cartel operating out of an inconspicuous unmarked warehouse on the south side of miami , florida .
sam was famous amongst data hackers for his ingenious ways to maximize and utilize the precious information that his department extracted out of the never ending and steadily multiplying data streams .
he had intercepted the reports flying back and forth between salt lake city and washington , d.c. about their little girl scout revolution .
he also had managed to latch on to the flood of e mails that had originated with that ominous censored message .
there was no end in sight for the attention that this insignificant little note was getting .
two weeks earlier he had to report to what was now called rip island in the caribbean .
one of the top ripdotcom lieutenants wanted his opinion first hand about the federal governments plan to take the censor servers online .
sam had been involved in the programming of some high level threat definition routines for the censors but he was never convinced that they would do an adequate job of filtering relevant content out of a great volume of communication .
the intuition that a good intelligence operative brought to the table could never be matched to a satisfactory degree by the machines .
in the end of course the decision was all about money .
the intelligence services that ripdotcom provided to the capitol and the white house did not come cheap .
mass communication censoring had been a wide spread practice for years but it was a tedious labor intensive business and did not carry the kind of profit margin the cartel was used to produce from its other operations .
nobody was all too upset about the governments plans to automate this process .
the cartel still made a small fortune supplying and installing the servers and this could always be considered a favor that might come handy to cash in should the need arise .
still , sam had made it very clear to his superior that there were unforeseeable risks involved with letting semi intelligent machines mess with personal correspondence .
sams employees had always prided themselves in the fact that their censoring activities were hardly ever noticed and if so , they were able to convincingly blame it on software , hardware or user error every single time .
even with the most sophisticated programming available these were still machines and their workings were bound to be discovered eventually .
he did not make the mistake to venture a prediction of how the average user would react to this revelation .
sam stone was shaking his head in disbelieve for the thousandth time .
they had signed the censored message !
what were they thinking ?
probably one of these so called security advisors had the brilliant idea to just be forthcoming with the information .
this should show the governments honest intent to protect its people from subversive elements and inside threats and at the same time intimidate the hell out of the common guy on the street .
good luck trying to intimidate a twelve year old these days , ha !
he grumbled to himself .
sam felt it in his stomach that this issue would find its way onto his desk rather sooner than later .
he needed to be prepared .
the mere existence of the censor servers was a slap in the face of everything the united states once stood for .
he knew that it would take a while to shake up a significant enough number of people to really turn this into a wide spread situation , but the web had already started to create a buzz and not even his mighty organization would be able to stop this avalanche once it had gained sufficient momentum .
suddenly a bright red exclamation mark flashed across his computers touch screen followed by a warning message that he never had wanted to see in his career .
ripdotcom identity compromised !
he could hear warning sounds chirping from computers in the offices down the hall .
seconds later one of his senior agents stormed into the room .
someone in washington lost it !
peter lowry barked across the desk .
we were not able to trace the information back to its exact origin right away , but someone in d.c. posted a bulletin on the associated press tech blog about the censor servers and they quoted us as the operators .
we retracted the text within 213 milliseconds but we dont know if it was still distributed .
we are scanning all channels for traces of it .
well , we dont need a panic , so calm down and turn off the warning bells .
sam tried to keep the situation under control , use all the resources you need to stay on top of a possible distribution .
lets put out this fire while it is small .
find out who posted the message and inform the ground force commander in d.c. as soon as you get closer .
we need to stop whoever tries to crash our party before they can do some real damage .
keep me informed .
use the satellite phones for all communications .
good luck , peter .
he dismissed his employee and turned his chair around to face the bookshelf behind his desk .
paper , he thought , what a wonderfully predictable medium .
he did not allow himself to get contemplative for too long .
sam stone had always been kept in high regards because he was a man of action and this time he would have to prove what he was made of .
he pulled the satellite phone from its charging station between the books and for the first time dialed a number that only a handful people had knowledge of .
he had to wait for more than twenty rings before an out of breath voice answered the other call .
i saw it , the thin voice came slowly across the line .
i assume you already initiated damage control actions .
yes , sir , sam stone acknowledged to nicolas oriley , head of the ripdotcom family , we do everything in our power to contain distribution of the message and to find out the identity of the clown who wrote it .
unfortunately , son , that was no clown who wrote and posted this note .
it is no secret to us who stands behind this .
stone was dumbstruck by this casually uttered revelation .
my college buddy freddie van nuys and i developed much of the code back then that is still the back bone of our operation , oriley explained , he was brilliant but did not see the long term benefit of the mining programs .
after the buyout of my first company a few years later i snatched up all his rights for a few hundred thousand bucks from him .
he blew the money on girls and pot and later went on to join the cia .
he is still there .
freddie was always jealous and critical of our venture and especially of our government contracts .
seems he grew a conscience with old age or maybe it was just the lousy pay that set him off .
anyway , i got a text message this morning on the secure line .
it said , nick the tick , knew yall make a mistake some time .
boom !
seconds later the alarms went off .
oriley took a deep breath from his oxygen mask before he was able to continue .
you can call off the dogs .
if you want to find freddie just walk down to the cia data center in d.c. , hell be there waiting .
but what good would that do .
we need a more proactive plan to resolve this mess .
lets see how this plays out until tomorrow .
sleep on it and give me a call in the morning with ideas .
he hung up without another word .
yes , sir , will do , stone slowly mumbled into the dead line .
the next morning the web and all kinds of official and alternative media channels lit up with fireworks of articles about the role of ripdotcom in the censor server scandal .
dhs officials denied accusations that the federal government had any involvement in deploying the servers .
the signature line in the censored messages was claimed to be an attempt to provoke civil unrest against government offices and institutions .
ripdotcom was accused of terroristic activities against us citizens and appropriate counter measures were promised .
not that anyone really cared at that stage , but washington , as always , was all about not loosing face and covering their tracks .
freddie van nuys lived his days in a small unmarked office at sublevel two of a cia data center on the outskirts of washington d.c .
the wall across his desk was covered with an array of computer screens that displayed all sorts of information at the push of a button .
everyone in his department knew freddie as a quiet man with a biting sense of humor , but these days he was all smiles and giggles .
his old tired eyes gleamed while watching a parade of sensationalizing news stories from all around the country and a few from abroad about his old friend orileys woes .
he looked fondly at a list of news bulletins that he had secretly been assembling for years .
each one revealed yet another chapter of digital piracy committed by the vast network of companies and operational centers of the ripdotcom cartel .
next to every line in his long list was a little bomb icon with a date and time stamp .
the documents were uploaded and armed for delivery by the most inventive methods conjured up by a creative vengeful mind .
freddie van nuys was not out for a quick kill , he was all about standing by and watching the mighty squirm and run for cover for a long time .
he had learned to be patient and he was going to milk this for his twisted enjoyment as long as he could .
and so the dominoes had begun to fall .
a jumbled birthday wish and a rash emotional response from a little girl , the complacency of an omnipresent spying government , the ages old battle for power and influence , personal revenge and skeletons rattling in everyones closets .
powerful information technology that had been developed by greedy , childish yet ingenious minds and carelessly put to use by the masses without giving the faintest thought to the detrimental effect it would have if it ever fell into the wrong hands .
it took a lot to plant the seed of distrust into technology in the minds of large parts of the population but the first stone was thrown , the line had been cast .
freddie van nuys was sitting in his office fifty feet below the face of the earth and made sure that the plant of doubt was tended to .
even if he were to disappear for some unforeseeable reason his plan was put on autopilot , the news bulletins would go out and there was nothing anyone would be able to do about it .
the dominoes fell slowly .
in a world that relied on instant global communication and availability of nearly every piece of information and knowledge ever gathered by humankind the mere thought of giving up even a small portion of these conveniences was unfathomable for almost everyone at the beginning .
every aspect of public , private and business life was fully dependent on the cheap and effortless access to the global data networks .
even going on a romantic date without the prior reassurance of online compatibility tests and initial chat room contacts was hard to imagine for even the most love starved people .
faith is a wonderful thing .
it lets us face hurdles , challenges and adventures without the certain knowledge of how to master them and still go forward to a fulfilling and life enriching experience .
blind faith on the other side is like being fast asleep at the wheel of a speeding car and not even waste the spark of a thought to the fact that there might be a bend in the road and we are not in control to negotiate it .
ignorance is bliss they say but this only holds true as long as we are ignorant of our own ignorance .
once the sleeping mind has been jolted awake even for the fraction of a second to see life for what it really is , the sleep is not going to be as fast anymore .
freddie van nuys messages had begun to do quite a bit of jolting far beyond his direct reach .
personal responsibility was slowly retracted from the list of four letter words that it had been banned to for too long .
it takes a lot to wake a sleeping bear , but when he awakes you better stand back and not get in his way .
the american public had begun to awake from its lazy boy supported lull where life was played out only on 16 9 aspect ratio ultra definition flat panel screens .
the system of total control and manipulation by government and corporations had depended on the constant , immediate and unsuspecting access to an overwhelming part of society .
this system had been compromised and scrutinizing it started to become a favorite past time .
there was no land rush to the shores of self reliance or self empowerment .
it was more like a trickle at first , an annoying side bar to the mainstream media channels .
still , the steady trickle became a gurgling brook and the brook became a river and the river became a raging stream and then there was the waterfall , an unexpected gorge that opened in front of the still learning and struggling swimmers .
that gorge almost swallowed the country for two long centuries .
for anthony hager personal responsibility came knocking on his door when he discovered that the nuclear power plant he was chief safety engineer of was frequently driven above the maximum rated energy output by remote network request .
someone or something in a far away big city office had decided that the safety of hager and his colleagues as well as the surrounding rural area was less important than a few percent of additional power output to push quarterly profits for the power company .
he pondered the consequences for a long time and decided he had no choice in the matter .
after a sleepless night and a long talk with his wife he sat down at his desk the next morning , took the control computers off line and initiated the power down sequence of the reactor .
he knew that he had put his life and his and many other peoples future in jeopardy but there was no way to un grow a conscience once it has manifested itself in ones personality .
anthony hagers sigh of relief was heard and felt throughout the mighty plant .
rachel summers taught sixth grade history at lincoln high , tallahassee , florida .
one morning she was looking up into her classroom and all she saw were rows of computer screens with girls and boys ducked behind them trying to absorb the stale information they were force fed at a pre determined pace .
something new and unknown , frightening and exciting began to awake in rachel .
what would it feel like to be a real teacher ?
tracy , would you please keep the class quiet for a few minutes , i want to fetch something from the library , she instructed one of the class captains .
with that she stepped out into the hallway and rushed down two flights of stairs to the library floor .
the old librarian looked surprised to see a teacher walk in during school in session .
ms. summers just nodded quietly to the library desk and made her way to the back of the room where row after row of old unused real paper books were stored .
no one ever made it that far back these days .
special interest titles were downloaded to memory cards for display in the classroom computers and the regular lesson material was accessed directly from central education server banks .
books were just ancient relics and kept around for sentimental reasons more than anything else .
rachel found the row of books she was looking for and picked up one on american history reaching back many centuries .
it was a heavy book and the dust that had accumulated on top of it made her eyes water and her nose tingle .
the sound of her unexpected sneeze seemed twice as loud in the celebrated silence of the library hall .
the second sneeze felt even more liberating and made her feel lightheaded .
the librarian was used to not question the teachers .
she just assumed that ms. summers wanted to show her class first hand what an ancient paper book looked like and how fortunate they all were that they got their lessons in a much more convenient way .
with a newfound spring in her step rachel summers almost ran up the stairs back to her classroom .
there was not a peep to be heard and only two or three of her students looked up when she opened the door .
she crossed the room to her desk and dropped the heavy book onto it with a loud thud .
now she had their attention .
with a big gesture for everyone to see she paused the lesson in progress from her teachers terminal .
gather around everybody , we will learn today what it was like to be in a class room many decades ago .
bring your chairs to the front and sit down , we are going to learn from a real book today .
there were many uncertain looks on childrens faces not sure what to make of their teachers new found enthusiasm .
one by one they picked up their chairs and moved to the front of the classroom .
a few minutes of tumult and murmurs until they all were assembled to see what strange things might unfold that day .
we are going to read about the same chapter of our countrys history that you had studied on the terminals today , in the book , ms. summers explained , lets see if there is more to learn when we do the work ourselves .
there were many surprised faces including ms. summers when it became obvious that history in the book was written quite differently than the one taught by the standardized computer lessons .
eyes wide open these twenty eight pupils and their brave teacher read and discussed and read some more until the school bell ended this remarkable history lesson .
small acts of civic bravery , initiative and original thinking in all parts of the population left their marks on small or large areas of every day life .
every one of these early deeds was met by official repercussions that far outweighed the offense but underlined their significance all the more .
more rules , more restrictions , more control and of course more taxes were met by more resistance and determination of individuals , communities and organizations .
decades of a back and forth struggle between a freedom thirsty population and a power hungry and panicking government steadily eroded the trust in all forms of authority .
the web of free information and data exchange that had been spun for almost a century unraveled itself from the outside in .
the fragmented remains were not able to sustain the federal and global communication infrastructure that had been the foundation of modern economy on every level .
the segmentation of the economic system brought a long laundry list of quite unpleasant situations and circumstances in its tow .
the break down of supply lines for food , energy and affordable every day supplies left many regions and metropolitan areas at the mercy of raiders and pirates who always seemed to be able to acquire sought after merchandise one way or another and offer it to the highest bidder .
many short lived attempts of reorganizing larger areas under common administrations ended in all out confrontations between loosely organized paramilitary groups and armed street gangs .
in the end the motorcycle and street gangs remained the only organized forces in many large cities and ironically matured to peace keeping and security authorities .
often they were the only effective protection from outside raider attacks .
... whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends , it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it , and to institute new government ... quote united states declaration of independence .
the people finally took back their rights by force in what would be remembered as the girl scout revolution .
it would take more than two hundred years before the thought of instituting a new federal government could be even discussed without violent outbreaks and loss of life and treasure .
time warp chapter 3 east by north east with his hands lightly on the flight controls and a big smile on his face john taylor was in his element .
what a feeling to be flying again .
the plane had reached its rotation speed and taylor felt the reassuring positive resistance from the control surfaces in his hands and feet .
he waited just a tad longer to be on the safe side , no need to rush things when there is plenty of smooth asphalt in front of you .
with smooth application of backpressure to the elevator control and plane lifted effortlessly from the ground .
he guided the plane into a steady climb and set the elevator trim for best climb speed .
they had started from runway 36 and were flying due north .
the plan was to go east and intercept the old interstate 30 somewhere over rockwall lake , so he rolled the aircraft into a shallow right hand turn until they were facing straight into the rising sun .
he pulled down the tinted visors over the windshield and for the first time in weeks relaxed into his seat .
hows everyone doing so far ?
taylor asked pushing the intercom button on the steering wheel .
small planes in particular those with military designation were still noisy inside so all four of them were wearing noise reducing headsets .
push the white buttons on your headset cables to talk , one at a time , please , he instructed his passengers .
there was just silence to be heard so taylor turned around and looked into the white faces of helen spade and tim farmer .
it was quite obvious that this was their first ride in a small aircraft , maybe their first flight at all .
dont worry kids , cody hunt chimed in , he hasnt managed to wreck this old thing yet , so chances are hes not going to start now .
he had a devilish time to poke fun at them remembering all too well his first flight with taylor .
he was not feeling quite so frisky then .
im fine , spade came through the intercom with a pressed voice , but could you try to avoid at least some of the potholes ahead .
it feels as if you were aiming for every single one of them .
taylor looked at hunt with a little chuckle .
the morning air was quiet and only when they flew across one of the more densely populated areas he felt the rising air disturbing their smooth glide .
farmer was clearly not feeling well and taylor could only hope that he had had a light breakfast .
tim , there are paper bags in front of you in the seat pocket , he reminded farmer , if you have to get sick , no big deal , just use one of the bags and put it under your seat when you are done .
do not try to throw it out of the window !
it will explode and come right back at you and ms. spade back there , you hear me ?
he didnt get an answer but heard the paper bags being pulled out .
he looked with raised eyebrows at hunt who gave him a grin and a wink when they both saw helen spade reach for the bags and with an almost tender gesture hand them to farmer .
who would have thought ?
there might be a heart somewhere inside that block of ice after all , he thought by himself smiling .
about twenty minutes into the flight they spotted lake rockwall with its highway bridge that had been put back into service a few months earlier .
taylors friend harry dawg ears and his rockwall security gang had performed miracles making the region safe again for personal and business travel .
it was still not recommended to leave the immediate metropolitan area without the protection of either an armed convoy or accredited safe passage certificates but this first step in the right direction had given hope for a brighter future to many .
the lake quietly sparkled in the morning light and only a few vehicles were in sight .
the bridge connected interstate 30 on both sides so taylor banked into a slow left hand turn into the general direction of the once mighty freeway .
since this was a heading that not many flights were taking in those days no one knew exactly what the condition of the road beneath them would be .
taylor was hoping that it would at least be recognizable well into sector xxi so it would be easy to navigate by looking out the window .
the old trusty engine droned its reassuring song propelling the travelers across the sky at a comfortable altitude of five thousand feet .
the vistas onto the slowly changing landscape beneath them were breathtaking with remnants of a violent recent past still clearly visible in many places .
they saw ruins of deserted villages , burned out factory buildings , roads that were overgrown by the surrounding vegetation with only patches of concrete visible but , on the other hand , the blue clear lakes were glistering in the sun like seas of sparkling diamonds and the mighty pine trees stretched their branches high into the heavens .
everyone was enjoying the beautiful scene before them and relaxed into their fate .
for more than two hours they followed interstate 30 to bring them closer to their destination .
to avoid complications and delays taylor had not tried to get in touch with anyone who might still be living in the little rock area in section xxi .
he did not want to attract any attention to their expedition from friend or foe so he turned the airplane straight north before they reached the outskirts of little rock to fly a large arc around the more densely populated areas to catch interstate 40 to the north .
he was hoping to find the turnoff to us highway 65 to follow it as far as their fuel would get them .
this detour added at least forty minutes to their travel time and cut into the distance that they would be able to cover by air but it was much preferable to being shot at by some overly nervous security post .
it was not long until they saw lake maumelle stretching out on the horizon and the arkansas river valley right behind it .
taylor deviated from his course several times to avoid overflying larger groups of buildings that were scattered throughout the area .
a lonely low flying plane that was going north might raise some questions , which he was not prepared to answer .
disturbing the peace was furthest from his desires for this trip .
soon the beautiful lake rushed by beneath them and after a short while they had crossed the mighty river that had given the region its historic name .
taylor knew it would be about ten miles north that us 65 would turn off i 40 to climb into the mountainous terrain .
a few minutes after they had first seen the deserted highway corridor hunt spotted the remains of the road they were looking for leading north .
for the first twenty minutes it was easy to follow the road through flat grassland , as it was still well defined against the green and brown surroundings .
the further the flight reached north though , the more it was obvious that the vegetation had claimed back much of the man made surface .
at the onset of the mountains it seemed as if the forest had suddenly swallowed the highway .
the openings in the dense tree cover became spaced wider apart the further they flew up the mountains .
taylor knew that they had almost reached the fuel reserve he was comfortable with to safely get them back home .
he started to descend looking out for a suitable place to land that would also allow them to get back into the air once they had completed their mission .
taylor could see the highway wind up a steep mountain ridge with a flat wide opening in the tree cover on the other side .
he pointed the spot out to hunt to get his opinion .
watcha think ?
do you see any reason why we should not take this spot to land ?
he asked into the microphone of his headset .
you have to go in fairly steep to clear the trees right on the ridge but otherwise it looks good to me .
do a low fly over so we can see what the surface is like , hunt answered , confident in his eyesight and decades of flying shotgun .
you got it , taylor said gleefully and rolled into a steep turn towards the mountain ridge .
it was a joy to feel the speed and g forces as he pulled the plane up to clear the row of trees that crowned the cliff by a few feet .
the tension in the back cabin was electric and tim farmer winced just a tiny bit as helen spades fingernails dug into his thigh .
there might have been more pleasant ways of first intimate contact but given the circumstances farmer did not object in the least .
the surface of the chosen landing site was clear of large rocks or other debris .
the concrete road was cracked and broken up on many places from freezing winters and hot summers but it still looked suitable for landing and starting the rugged airplane .
the big tires and reinforced landing gear were able to tolerate obstacles of substantial size , which had more than once saved taylors day before , not to mention his passengers and cargo .
thatll do , he announced to his companions and entered a sweeping 360 degree turn to get them back on an approach path over the ridge for landing .
taylor reduced engine power and deployed wing flaps to the first notch for a steeper glide angle .
he negotiated the final approach to clear the tall trees at the downwind end of the landing site and carefully touched down the plane a few hundred feet later in the middle of the clearing .
it was quite a bumpy ride over broken concrete and brush work but the plane slowed down bobbing across some small rocks and came to a halt with plenty of room to spare .
the two men in the front seats had to fight back laughter at the very audible sighs of relief that came from the back once taylor had stopped the engine at his chosen parking position close to the trees and out of sight from above .
helen spade removed her hand from farmers leg with an apologetic look on her face .
its o.k. , ... thanks ... em , he mumbled softly .
the sound of cabin doors opening cut the tender moment short .
it was time to think about more practical things than an ever so pleasant chance encounter in a cramped airplane back seat .
hunt and taylor had already jumped out of the plane stretching their legs after the long ride .
they inspected the aircraft for any damage it might have sustained from the rough landing roll .
to their relief they could only see a few new dents to the underside of the hull but nothing that would bring the plane closer or further away from winning a beauty contest .
they had managed the first leg of their journey according to plan .
now it was time to get oriented and to plan their hike up the mountains .
it is hard to imagine that someone came through here fifty years ago with a truck and made it all the way down to the irving sector .
must have been quite a resilient fellow , taylor said to hunt pointing at the road that disappeared into the forest .
youre telling me ?
hunt replied , remember , i was the one who tried to point out that the probability of your stories being true is slim at best .
wan na go back right now ?
we could be back at ruudis bar tonight at ten .
you kidding me ?
taylor laughed , you are not getting out of using your legs for something else than balancing yourself on a bar stool for a change .
remember , it was you who begged me to come along .
they both laughed feigning a sparring match in the middle of the road .
spade and farmer looked at each other rolling their eyes .
they had not been aware that they had signed up to travel with a comedy team like it seemed , a very old fashioned comedy team as it turned out .
savoring the peaceful scenery just a moment longer taylor turned back to the business at hand .
lets unpack our stuff and get going , he resumed his role as leader of the expedition , its twelve thirty right now , we can still travel ten or fifteen miles today before we find a place to camp .
after they had emptied the plane , hunt and taylor fastened its fabric cover and a camouflage net on top of it .
better to be safe than sorry was their motto even in a remote location like this , just an old habit .
they had brought backpacks for their personal effects and food rations as well as sleeping rolls .
it fell on hunt to carry the two small tents that were folded up in another backpack since his personal belongings were miraculously hidden somewhere in his combat suit .
what are we going to do for water supply ?
farmer asked , the canteens we brought are not going to last long .
dont worry about that , hunt answered eager to make himself useful , i can smell fresh water from miles away , well have more than we can drink .
the four travelers sat down on scattered rocks to have a light snack from their military rations that they had brought for food .
we are going to follow this highway north for about fifteen miles .
taylor was ready to get going , according to the reports we should come across a deserted town once called lebanon .
theres still got ta be buildings and signs to recognize it .
from there we head west on 74 or 377 whichever we find .
it should not be more than ten maybe fifteen miles from there until we get into the area where i hope to find the colony we are looking for .
lets gear up and happy trails !
they grabbed their backpacks and helped each other strap them on .
it was obvious that farmer and spade were very helpful to each other .
it was sweet to see the young cowboy stare at the girl wide eyed as if she was a precious flower which kind he had never seen before .
spade on the other hand still made an effort to keep her cool but at the same time she basked in tims admiration and did not discourage it in any way .
taylor and hunt looked the other way .
this promised to be interesting to say the least .
taylor looked the airplane over one more time and satisfied with what he saw he took the lead and marched out in a northern direction .
the old highway was overgrown by trees for the most part but there was still enough open space with the asphalt and concrete surface intact for them to travel at a decent pace .
hunt felt right at home in the sounds and scents of the woods , the touch of mossy grass , and shadow patterns painted on last years leaves by the midday sun .
for him it all was invigorating and intoxicating .
he almost forgot about his travel companions and rushed forward into the emerald tunnel in front of them .
taylor did not mind .
he had been traveling with hunt long enough to trust his instincts and keen sense of direction .
they settled into a comfortable rhythm of walking a ways and then exploring the surroundings and picking up the hike again .
it was not the fastest way to travel , but it assured them a familiarity with the forest that might prove beneficial if their search kept them in the woods for longer than they had expected .
it did not take long for tim farmer to forget about his newfound interest in helen spade for a while to join hunt in the exploration of the plants they were passing by .
he could see right away that there was no evidence of genetic degeneration or other human induced disease in any of the vegetation .
he unwrapped his precious dna scanner to take samples of a few native trees and ferns .
ill be d ... .. !
he interrupted his surprised outburst with a side glance at spade , i cant believe it , the comparison between these samples of live oak and the ones we took around the irving sector show a deviation of more than seven hundred picas .
that would normally be enough to qualify as a new species if the differences were healthy generational mutations and not just random defects .
he checked his readings again to make sure he did not fall prey to his own mistake .
mr. taylor , sir , if my readings are correct and there really are farm animals or cultured plants around that are similar to these wild plants we are going to find a genetic gold mine here .
people are going to name a steak after you .
he was all excited now and started to systematically scan new specimen as they came across them .
just make sure you dont fill up your data storage with useless underbrush and weeds .
keep some of it free for that steak you were talking about .
i want to eat it with potatoes and beans next summer , taylor laughed , and tim , please stop calling me sir .
yes , sir , tim replied promptly .
hunt and farmer kept dashing on and off the road into the woods like little kids who had too much energy to burn .
they were enjoying themselves while taylor and spade kept a reasonable pace on the road .
spade did not offer much conversation which suited taylor quite well because he did not know how far he could trust her .
he was sure that by now his name graced a folder in mark shiners intelligence bureau and he was not going to fill it voluntarily with additional information .
hunt made good on his promise to find water .
about three hours after they had left the plane he disappeared into the woods for almost ten minutes .
the road had lead out from under the trees into a small clearing when they heard a sharp whistle from a steep incline above them .
the other three turned to see hunt up on the hill waving his arms gesturing for them to join him .
his shout , water !
echoed through the valley .
well better go , taylor said , otherwise he is going to be grumpy and we have to try to find water on our own .
all right , whos first ?
to everyones surprise helen spade stepped up to the steep gravel and rock slope and started climbing without effort .
she looked as if she had lived in the mountains all her life and not in the texas flatlands .
tim farmer could not take his eyes off her slender figure elegantly moving up the hill with the grace and steady step of a mountain goat .
it took him a moment to get his wits back and follow her lead .
he climbed bravely and without complaint , but being a country boy who was more at home on the back of a horse or at the wheel of a truck he did not look quite as secure .
taylor chuckled to himself and followed the two at a safe distance .
up on the hill hunt was kneeling at a tiny gurgling brook with ice cold water clear as crystal .
they all filled their aluminum canteens with natures gift and drank as much as they could right on the spot .
none of them had ever tasted water so sweet and refreshing in their entire lives .
lets keep going for an hour or two more and then look for a place to set up camp , taylor suggested .
we can take the easier way down on the backside of the hill and make our way around back to the road .
thanks for the drink , cody .
all four of them were in good spirits from the refreshing rest .
they climbed down the slope to join up with the road a few hundred yards from where they had left it .
hunt and farmer stayed with the group for now .
the long flight in a cramped cabin and the excitement of their hike started to wear down their energy reserves .
they quietly marched on , enjoying the changing scenery .
the air was getting cooler as they slowly reached higher altitudes .
it was not unpleasant yet but they were glad that they had brought the tents and sleeping bags .
an hour later , after leaving behind the ruins of a small town called marshall , cody hunt pointed out a small lush clearing between the trees that seemed the perfect camp site for the night .
a small creek was flowing across the meadow to give them an opportunity to freshen up in the morning and the soft mossy ground promised a comfortable resting place .
lets set up the tents and get a fire going .
cody , do you mind going for some fire wood with farmer ?
taylor asked .
not at all , come on cowboy , lets go .
hunt replied .
it took taylor and spade only a few minutes to upright the tents and stow their belongings .
hunt came back with his arms loaded with dry and brittle branches .
the kid said hell be along in a minute , cody announced dropping the wood on the ground and began building a campfire .
he took a knife off his belt and debarked a big branch , scraped out the fluffy dry kindling from the bark and stuffed it beneath a pile of small twigs .
only seconds later the fire from his lighter had spread to the larger branches while he added more wood to the pile .
not long and a lively fire radiated cozy warmth into the dusk .
make room for the chuck wagon !
farmer yelled , bursting from the forest onto the clearing .
first ill cook , then well eat .
everyone was looking perplexed when he disappeared into the tent that harbored his backpack .
he reemerged with the items he was looking for .
never travel without a frying pan and a coffee pot , he announced triumphantly presenting both utensils .
he then dug cautiously into the pockets of his jacket and to everybodys delight produced three eggs and two hands full of various mushrooms and fresh herbs , which he had gathered in the woods .
ill cook this and stir in the dry rations with water .
thatll make us a delicious dinner .
i also brought a few packs of real coffee .
its not a meal without something black and hot to wash it down with .
this was not tim farmers first rodeo .
no sir , he knew how to live and to survive in the outdoors and how to have a good time along the way .
fifteen minutes later the motley crew shared a welcome and unexpectedly delicious meal under the open sky .
the coffee was hot and black and strong enough to wake the dead , just like you would expect when a cowboy does the cooking .
the fine delicate flavors and aromas of wild birds eggs , herbs and mushrooms on the other hand would have been the pride of any fine restaurant in the irving sector and beyond .
with their stomachs full and sipping the remaining coffee they all settled around the fire contemplating the events of the day .
out of the blue helen spade turned to taylor , you and hunt are very close .
care to share the story how the two of you met ?
taylor did not care much for the tone in which the question was asked .
he looked at hunt who just shrugged his shoulders .
the events were ancient history and none of the involved parties had any influence anymore so what harm could it do to tell the story of the day they had met .
all right ms. nosy , taylor teased , why not .
i am just surprised that this is not part of the intelligence files that you and your buddies surely have on cody and me .
its actually quite a story when i think about it .
more than twenty years ago the southern coalition had gained stable control of the gulf coast and all the way up to austin .
i was a young pilot with the militia , all green and eager to prove what an ace i was .
we were flying surveillance and minor ground attacks in little stinger jets against raiders and pirates who wanted to establish a bridgehead in the swamps .
at least that was what we were told .
he took a sip from his coffee before he continued .
one night after my squad had completed a successful sortie i walk into my barrack and a black figure sitting in the dark grunts at me , dont turn on the light .
i almost pee my pants and go for my side arm when he points a flash light into my face and calmly says , dont do that .
he was moving so swiftly that i never saw him until i felt my own 45 being pressed into my back .
ok , you win , i say , what is it .
i was sure he wanted money or some of the rum that my buddies and i had stashed on the camp grounds .
another look at hunt earned him a big grin .
so we sat down and he laid an ugly story on me .
turns out the missions we were ordered to fly were not to keep cuban pirates at bay but to cleanse the swamps from the people that were living there to give the pirates free access to support the reigning coalition .
he had it all in writing , copies of high level orders , photos of the houses we had leveled , and communications with cuban officials .
i was sick to my stomach .
he had been surveying the area for an opposing political party for months but the heat was rising so he needed a way out .
yeah , thats true , hunt took over , i had almost been caught too many times so i wrote my reports and signed off from the job .
i needed a quick ride out of there .
lieutenant john taylor here had a reputation in his day of being one of the best and craziest flyboys who ever strapped into a military jet .
it did not take much convincing after i showed him the evidence i had gathered to get him on board with my escape idea .
my credentials as special operations officer at the time gave me access to almost any official building or installation .
so , later that night i waltzed into the hangar for utility aircraft and commissioned a single engine plane for a covert operation .
times were so messed up back then that the night security grunt did not even flinch and let me have my pick .
we rolled the plane out to the parking ramp where taylor waited and before most folks were finished with their after dinner drinks we were off and half way across the hill country .
mind you , taylor picked up the yarn , i had no idea where we were going at that time .
we were flying under the radar with no lights and only basic navigation , no radios and no maps .
at sunrise i was sweating bullets because i was still not one hundred percent convinced officer hunt was for real and we were slowly running out of fuel .
he directed me to fly this and that heading and all i could make out was that we were going north .
i was able to identify cap rock in the distance when he dials the comm radio to a certain frequency and clicks away on the speak button .
twenty seconds later we hear three clicks as answer and right in front of me landing lights flicker in the middle of a field .
hunt points at the lights , land there , well be safe .
i didnt know what to think .
you should have seen the look on his face , hunt interrupted , taylor was flying as if he had the whole southern coalition in his neck .
we learned much later from a friend that they never even missed the plane .
as soon as we landed all hell broke loose , or so it seemed to me , taylor continued with a laugh , suddenly people came running from all directions , strapped a tow bar on the landing gear and pulled us into a barn next to a farm house .
hunt jumps out of the plane and everyone starts hugging and kissing him like the long lost son .
yeah , my folks are quite fond of their kin , hunt chuckled , my uncle and nephews had run that renegade air strip for many years during the war .
they helped quite a few lost pilots out of a jam and made good business out of recycling the planes they left behind .
meanwhile my aunt pushed us into the kitchen where we were fed like kings while out in the barn the plane got a new coat of camouflage paint .
they also removed all markings , insignia and serial numbers .
come noon the plane had a brand new identity with papers and all , was filled up and ready to go .
the same evening we started our trek up to alaska where we flew supply transports for oil and mining outfits for many years .
good times , right taylor ?
yep , good times , taylor replied thoughtfully .
soon thereafter the four agreed on the watch rotation for the night and retired to their tents , hunt and taylor in one and spade and farmer in the other .
early next morning the rattling of an old frying pan and the smell of coffee woke taylor .
never before he was so glad to have taken the young genetics engineer on the trip .
after a breakfast of more wild birds eggs and strong black cowboy coffee the quartet continued the hike .
they resumed their rhythm from the day before of making good time as well as exploring the surroundings on their way .
again , hunt found them all the fresh water they needed and another lovely resting place for the night .
in the morning of day three everyone felt that they were getting closer to the destination of their journey , the anticipation and excitement was almost palpable .
chapter 4 what is the most important thing ?
the four travelers had followed the remains of what was once us highway 377 west higher into the ozark mountains .
the surrounding woods had had ample opportunity over the past two hundred years to claim back the trenches that man had cut into its canvas .
the region had been abandoned soon after the war had climaxed to an all out confrontation between the various sectors and coalitions so there had been nobody left to keep the woods at bay .
the center of the once wide road was still smooth and almost free of vegetation .
long branches of mighty trees provided shade with a thick canopy of healthy green leaves allowing for a swift and effortless hike .
they were in an uplifted mood having fled the drudgery of the central camps for a few days .
life was good for right now .
for the umpteens time hunt started to tease taylor , i still cant believe they gave you all this good stuff for your wild goose chase .
dont get me wrong , im not complaining , this is the most fun ive had in a long time but ... a high pitched loud shriek right above them sent chills down their spines .
the memories of screaming raider victims were still fresh on their minds , but this was different .
they whirled around on their heels and scanned the area for effective cover when the shriek was followed by uncontrolled laughter of an obviously very amused female of undetermined age who was swinging by her feet hanging upside down from one of the lower branches of a gnarly oak tree .
what is the most important thing ?
she inquired in a funny sounding voice that reminded taylor of the cartoon characters that he found while searching the archives .
a hilarious little mouse in a red jumpsuit came to mind right away .
what is the most important thing ?
come on guys , i dont have all day , she repeated when she didnt get a satisfactory reply right away .
well , health and safety , finally came from tim farmer .
the others followed suit reluctantly .
survival !
exclaimed hunt to nobodys surprise .
information ?
helen spades reaction had a big question mark painted all over it .
someone to share your life with , taylors slowly uttered response earned him raised eyebrows and wry smiles from his travel mates .
it was quite out of character for him to grant anyone let alone a stranger an ever so brief glance into his private thoughts .
there was more giggling and laughter from that curious female while she quickly and without any effort made her way down the tree trunk onto the mossy ground .
she held her sides and gasped for air in a vain effort to control her outburst .
for a second she pretended to be all serious .
the most important thing , she lectured , is that i feel good !
really , it sounded more like , the most important thing is that i feeeeeeeeel gooooooood !
with that she burst into more laughter and started to escape into the woods .
race you !
she screamed at the top of her lungs while she disappeared between the trees .
taylor and his team stared at each other for a moment and then turned to chase after her , not wanting to loose contact with the first human they had come across since their airplane had touched down two days earlier .
hey !
taylor shouted after her , wait up , where are you going ?
suddenly he had an idea , what did you mean by that i feel good ?
what about everyone else ?
what about me ?
they ran and stumbled through the woods and lost the woman out of their sight within half a mile .
the four of them stopped to catch their breath when they were startled yet again by that giggly voice above their heads .
who are you guys ?
she inquired , watcha want here in oz ?
hanging upside down from tree branches was obviously her favorite place for a conversation .
she had a quizzical look on her face , not quite annoyed , not quite serious , and not quite hostile .
she was trying to keep her distance and at the same time she was obviously curious and entertained by the three guys and the girl chasing her .
this is oz ?
taylor asked half jokingly , so that would make you dorothy , right ?
no , i am lilly ann .
she replied , whats your name ?
well , lilly ann , im pleased to make your acquaintance , i am taylor , john taylor , and these are helen spade , tim farmer and cody hunt , all friends of mine .
taylor was glad that this conversation continued without another chase through the forest .
lilly ann looked him disarmingly into his eyes , she is not your friend , she said pointing her finger at helen spade , she looks like a fox .
i would not trust her .
she is pretty though , she added looking farmer squarely in the eyes with a quick wink .
hey , what are you talking about , spade started to argue but taylor motioned her to let it go .
she was not happy about that at all .
she wanted to let this weird lilly ann have it , but she gave in to keep the peace for right now .
well , taylor , john taylor , are you going to tell me what brings you out here or are we going to have a little quiz game until i can guess it right ?
i go first .
yes or no , did you fly here ?
lilly ann was having a ball at taylors expense .
well , yes , taylor stuttered , the total lack of insecurity on lilly anns part made him all the more self conscious , we flew here for the most part and then hiked two days until we met you .
we dont have to play games , though , ill gladly tell you what we came here for .
lilly ann was feigning to pout at missing out on a fun game but she swung up on her branch and climbed down to sit on one of the lower limbs right above eye level of taylor .
it seemed she did not want to give up the security of her tree entirely .
this is not nearly as much fun , she complained with a smile on her face that betrayed her words , go on , i am listening .
we came here because we would like to borrow something , taylor started cautiously .
it was obvious that the woman was bright and witty but she was also wild and they were in the middle of nowhere so he did not know how much of his request she would understand .
is there a town somewhere nearby ?
he thought maybe a game of quid quo pro would get them somewhere .
yes , lilly ann was not too forthcoming yet .
i think it would be best to talk to one of your leaders , a mayor perhaps or a chieftain , maybe one of your elders ?
taylor did not want to scare off lilly ann with his request for dna samples or reports of war and struggle in his home area .
his last question earned taylor a laughing fit that would have made any big city standup comedian proud .
lilly ann had tears in her eyes and gasped for air .
she could hardly hold on the branch she was sitting on and hunt reflectively stretched out his arms several times to catch her in case she fell off .
all of a sudden she had an idea .
she looked at them for a moment and with a giggle jumped off the tree right in front of them .
follow me , lilly ann announced very importantly , i shall take you to my leader !
she picked up a long stick from the ground and held it up in front of her as if presenting the royal crest .
then she swiftly marched off between the trees following a trail that none of the others could see .
they were quietly walking single file behind lilly ann trying to remember the direction they took through the woods .
more than once they thought to have crossed a particular brook or clearing before , making them suspicious that they were not led the straightest path to the village .
nobody raised any objections because they did not want to jeopardize the fragile understanding they had come to with the woman .
all of a sudden the forest opened onto a beautifully crafted cobble stone road .
there was still some asphalt left from the original street surface but the frequent holes and frost damage cracks had been artistically patched with colorful patterns of stone , rock and tile of various shapes and textures .
it was quite a surprise to taylor and his travel mates to see such beautiful artwork displayed for utilitarian purpose in the middle of a supposedly deserted mountain wilderness .
lilly ann walked up to a toddler of about three years of age who played at the side of the road .
the little child wore colorful denim carpenter pants and a straw hat .
she had her bare feet firmly planted in a puddle of water and was contemplating the various ripples the water made when she moved her legs and feet .
hi lilly love , lilly ann greeted the little girl , where is your mummy ?
the girl pointed in the direction of the road where at some distance a woman was kneeling on the ground working on the filling of yet another hole in the road .
what are you doing ?
lilly ann asked the girl .
i am painting rings in the water with my feet , lilly replied enthusiastically .
look , they all talk to each other .
if i make them the same they like it and grow bigger , if i make them different they dont like it and wipe each other out .
its just like the vibies , dont you love it ?
taylor was shocked to hear such an astute observation so clearly expressed from a three year old .
did she really talk about the physics principle of harmonic interactions of waves in the water ?
she surely must be a very special child .
maybe her father was the town leader and she enjoyed special schooling .
in any case it was quite a wondrous thing to hear .
this is great , lilly , thank you for sharing it with me , lilly ann agreed , honey , these folksies came from far away in an airplane to borrow something .
what do you think , should we help them out ?
lilly ann asked very seriously .
the girl looked intently at the four strangers .
her gaze was piercing and relentless and evoked the strong desire in all of them to find a hiding place and escape those innocent blue eyes .
sure , she said easily , smiling at them briefly and turning back to her water ripple game .
all right , you heard her , lilly ann said with a sigh turning to taylor , now tell me again , what is it that you really want ?
she started to slowly walk down the road .
taylor was perplexed .
surely lilly ann was playing games with them .
this lilly child was obviously gifted and bright but he refused to believe she was the town leader .
taylor was getting a bit impatient and annoyed by lilly anns weird behavior but she was their first contact with this colony and he was not going to let his emotions run away with him .
she had said that she would help them after all , didnt she ?
taylor put on his best sunday morning church smile .
it is a bit complicated .
do you know anything about dna or genetics ?
he asked lilly ann to find a starting point for his request .
sure , its what our bodies know , she replied without hesitation .
o.k. , thats one way to look at it , i never thought about it that way .
well , dna is at the heart of my request .
you know , we come from an area a few hundred miles south west of here .
for the last two hundred years we lived in conflict with neighboring areas and there was a war and all kinds of nasty stuff going on .
he was watching to see her reaction to that news , if it was news to her .
yes , we heard that a lot of peeps were playing the rage and anger game for a while .
how did that work out for you ?
lilly ann replied lightly .
there was this feeling of not being taken seriously bubbling up again in taylor .
he blinked hard and tried to push it away with a brief chuckle .
not so grand , im afraid , he admitted , we have been able to keep a seize fire intact for some time now but the trust between the regions is fragile .
we still have much work to do .
one thing we have been really struggling with is healthy and wholesome food supply for the big cities .
you see , when the federal systems and regulations started to crumble at the beginning of the war , the restrictions that were imposed on genetics research were not enforced anymore .
a few overzealous scientists thought their day had come and released altered dna into the food supply chain on a large scope without really knowing what they were doing .
they wanted to be the heroes of the day , i guess .
taylor did not want to appear too desperate but he thought it would help his cause to relay the big picture .
i understand , lilly ann agreed without the slightest hint of judgment on her part , peeps sometimes make decisions and then forget to make them right .
taylor just took that comment as a refusal of taking sides and continued , the unpleasant reality we have been facing for decades now is the steady degradation of all our natural food sources be it plants as well as animals .
we deal with slow grow rates , degenerative deceases , unreliable yields and poor general quality of most foods which in turn has its adverse effects on the human population .
he paused to let the information sink in for a moment .
so , what can i do to help ?
lilly ann simply asked .
taylor thought for a moment and decided it was best to be open and forward with his agenda .
the reason we took the trip is that we hoped to find healthy animals and plants here .
see , i found these reports in the news archives from fifty years ago of a gentleman who claimed to have come through this area .
he reported to have met a colony of people that lived in the mountains and the food that he saw was healthy and delicious .
there were pictures of cows and pigs and grain and vegetables that looked so appealing to me that i had to find a way to see for myself if these stories were true .
so , here we are , and you are for real .
it is kind of mind boggling for me , to be honest .
lilly ann looked at taylor in disbelieve , you want to have our cows ?
you must have a very big airplane if you want to take enough animals to make a difference in your herds .
are you sure you have thought this through ?
now it was on taylor to almost choke on the laughter that exploded in his chest .
he did not want to seem impolite or offend lilly ann and it was his own fault for not offering the information in a more useful succession so he swallowed the outburst and continued quickly .
i apologize , he started , i am afraid i left out a tiny little detail .
we brought a device that can scan and record the complete genetic information of any living entity without inflicting any damage to the specimen .
you just have to get the dna scanner close enough and it reads the data from any tissue it can access .
once we have the sample data it will be analyzed and synthesized into the reproductive cycle of the various herds .
it takes about two to three generations for the new genes to have an effect .
we were successful so far to eradicate a few genetic imperfections but to have the full dna set of a healthy sample would allow us to almost start over from before the damage was done .
tim farmer here is a genetics engineer and an expert in reconstructive dna synthesis .
he looks smarter than to try to mess with gods hand writing , she teased in farmers direction .
i cant see any harm in what you want to do .
i have to ask you for something though .
right , taylor sighed , we are authorized to offer you a substantial sum of energy credits for helping us .
lilly ann interrupted him with an impatient gesture .
no , no , i dont know what an energy credit is , but i sure dont want any of that .
all i must ask you is not to reveal our location .
i do not necessarily want us to become a tourist attraction or a cheap resource for treasure hunters .
its not easy to find us if we dont want to be found but i would still like it if you all promised to keep our little secret , lilly ann insisted .
that is the least we can do for your generosity , taylor agreed .
i would like to hear it from ms. foxy here .
i think she is the nosey one , right ?
lilly ann walked up to helen spade and looked her squarely in the eyes .
but you are also not breaking promises once you make them , quite a dilemma , hmm ?
spade did not back away from lilly ann .
i suppose i can leave your exact location out of my reports .
i can play the i owe you you owe me game as well as anyone .
anything else ?
spades challenging tone did not dim lilly anns bright smile for even one moment .
no , thats all , she said lightly , its settled then .
i see you have brought tents .
you can set up camp right here .
ill come back later and take you to a place where we can eat supper .
with that she turned around and skipped down the road out of sight .
taylor and his mates stared after her until she disappeared around a bend in the road .
they looked at each other for a moment before they all started to talk at the same time .
did she really ask that baby for permission ?
do you think this is the place we were looking for ?
did you see the artwork in the road ?
was she just teasing us or is she for real ?
where is the village ?
i can only see a road in the forest .
man , taylor , cody hunt drowned out the others questions , you were quite the flirt back there , nice going .
did you guys see how she was looking at him ?
you could have asked for that whole damn mountain and she would have given it to you .
hunt slapped taylor on the back almost knocking him over and laughed .
i dont know what you are talking about , taylor answered unable to hide the smile that claimed his face , shut up , cody .
put up a tent or something , will ya ?
you are aware that we would have walked right past here if she hadnt been waiting for us , hunt added on a more sober note , i wonder what that is all about .
i am aware of that , i am aware .
lets see how it goes tonight at dinner , taylor answered thoughtfully .
setting up camp was a practiced routine by then and only took them a few minutes .
it was time to prepare for the task they had come for .
tim , how much free memory do you have in your dna scanner ?
taylor started the discussion .
i have room for about fifty five hundred scans , sir , when i compress the backup maybe six thousand .
we need to keep records of the completed scans separately so we dont lose track of our progress .
the data management within the scanner is a bit cumbersome , farmer suggested .
i brought a data pad , helen spade volunteered , we could work out a data base to give us an overview about what we want to accomplish .
we should probably catalog the animal and plant species that they can provide and take it from there .
very good , taylor agreed , you two stay put and get going on the catalog .
cody and i will explore the area to get an idea where we are .
remember , we are guests here and we are not familiar yet with the customs of this place .
if you interact with anyone i expect you to be at your best behavior .
yes , sir , tim farmer acknowledged instantly .
yes , daddy , mocked helen spade , batting her eyes .
she turned around to join farmer before taylor was able to respond .
the girl is warming up , hunt noted , mostly to our young cowboy , though .
good , taylor agreed , come on , lets have a look around .
they started down the street to the point where lilly ann had disappeared .
on both sides of the road stood mighty trees of various kinds .
the underbrush was cleared in most places and was getting lighter the further they walked .
a few hundred yards further they came up on an intersection .
there was a wider road leading to the left and to the right but still no sign of a town or village .
taylor and hunt looked at each other .
lets go right .
lets head left .
they suggested at the same time .
they laughed , hesitated a moment and started walking in opposite directions almost smacking into each other .
this place makes me feel silly , hunt admitted , do you think there really is a town somewhere out here ?
no clue , said taylor , lets just walk down here some more .
if we dont find anything we return to the camp and wait for lilly ann .
maybe she is in the mood for a few questions .
i am kind of worried about the answers though .
they turned right and did not have to walk far until they saw the first house , if one would want to call it that .
a few large trees had been removed next to the road to create a parking space for what seemed to be an ancient travel coach .
the vehicle was mostly intact on the front but its backside was surrounded by a bizarre conglomerate of wooden panels , fabric canopies and stone pillars to create an enclosed room that served both as shelter as well as an artistic canvas .
colorful paintings and mosaics covered all outside surfaces creating a stark contrast to natures colors all around .
taylor wanted to avoid direct contact with anyone until his rapport with lilly ann was solidified further .
if the colony had survived out here for the last two hundred years with little or no contact to the outside world there was no telling what the reaction to their presence would be .
taylor definitely did not want to make matters more complicated than they had to be .
they took in as much as they could while slowly walking on .
besides the soft bark of a dog and the sound of a closing screen door there was no sign of the occupants anywhere .
if they dont want to be seen , well pretend not to see them , taylor said quietly to hunt .
encouraged by the discovery of the first house they grew even more curious of other homesteads .
they did not have to search for long .
just a short distance further on the other side of the street an old jeep vehicle was parked next to the road .
farmer is going to like this , hunt pointed at the car , looks older than dirt , though .
no wonder , taylor answered , if our information is correct all the industrial technology in this place is at least two centuries old .
if this thing actually moves by itself it is the epitome of a bona fide miracle .
wonder what they use for fuel .
i dont see a house or something else that looks like a living space , do you ?
hunt wondered .
he didnt have to wait long for an answer .
the noise of a screeching door opening high above their heads made them look up .
their jaws dropped as they saw an expansive wood structure built into the crowns of adjacent trees sprawling across the street and into the woods .
there were numerous separate room units connected by decks and rope bridges and ladders between them .
one of the most intriguing features was a set of ten feet tall wind chimes hanging high overhead made of wood of various colors and grain patterns .
the air was calm so the chimes did not move or sound but they were impressive nonetheless .
a man wearing dark green coveralls stepped out of the door onto a deck .
he dropped the end of a rope ladder and swiftly climbed down to the ground .
without even a glance at taylor and hunt who were looking on from across the street he jumped into the old jeep and slowly drove off .
hunt flared his nostrils and announced , smells like french fries , no wait , doughnuts .
they use recycled vegetable oil for fuel , sweet .
he grinned at taylor .
this trip is getting more interesting by the minute , taylor admitted , lets head back to the camp before our love birds run out of work and get weird ideas .
i hope lilly ann is going to be back soon .
i am kind of hungry .
hungry for lilly ann , hunt mocked ducking out of reach to avoid taylors punch at his ribcage .
grow up already , cody , will ya ?
taylor chased hunt up the street laughing .
the two friends made their way back to the camp discussing the unexpected events they had witnessed on the journey so far .
they enjoyed themselves dreaming up wild speculations of what else could be in store for them during their stay .
serious contemplation of little green men and unicorns passed the time of their return walk .
they were a little annoyed but not too surprised to see the camp abandoned at their return .
everything was neat and tidy and nothing was missing but no sign of farmer or spade .
did you hear this ?
hunt asked taylor cupping his right ear in the direction of the forest .
here it is again .
hear the laughter ?
someone is having a good time back there .
now taylor heard it too .
lets have a look , he said walking towards the trees .
they found a little path that someone had recently hewn into the bushes .
the sound of a girl laughing grew louder with every step they took into the underbrush .
after a few hundred feet they stepped out onto the banks of a shallow creek to see helen spade standing right in the middle of the ice cold water .
she had zipped off the lower leg parts of her khaki pants and her jacket was thrown over a bush .
her skin tight t shirt made every man keenly aware of her shapely figure .
she stood on the rocks with her bare feet splashing the cold water in farmers direction .
the boy was sitting on the banks of the creek , his hat pushed into the neck , a big smile on his face , gnawing on a wild oats straw and enjoying the spectacle before his eyes .
did you two run away from the bear that just ransacked the camp ?
hunt just could not pass up the opportunity to have a little fun with them .
farmers and spades eyes were big as saucers .
no way !
thats impossible !
they started to stutter at once .
oh boy , taylor laughed , the sight of a bad conscience .
im outta here .
you can find me at the camp when you are done with your frolicking .
they could still hear him laughing after he was out of sight .
cody hunt could not retreat quickly enough to escape an angry fountain of cold water that spade tossed at him .
he ran after taylor as quickly as he could .
shortly after spade and farmer had rejoined the group at the campsite they heard a vehicle approach some time before they were able to see it .
the little engine strained against the load it was charged with , screaming a high pitched whine that was interrupted by vicious backfiring at an interval way too short for comfort .
around the corner came a little box like van with a two piece windshield and a huge round peace sign smack in the middle between its headlights .
every piece of sheet metal and the occasional wood panel were painted in bright colors with paisley and floral designs .
the side windows and back doors were adorned with drapes of similar colorful artistic expression .
the wondrous vehicle stopped in front of them with a loud screech from the brakes and a pitiful sigh from the motor as it was relieved of its duty .
lilly ann jumped out of the drivers side door with a joyful squeal .
she looked proudly upon her trusty ride and turned to her visitors with a beaming smile .
whatcha think , isnt she a beauty ?
i painted her all by myself , over and over and over , she laughed her infectious laugh , who is brave enough to ride with me ?
shotgun !
taylor claimed the front seat for himself to the amusement of everyone .
they were not laughing half as loud when lilly ann opened the side doors of the van , revealing an eclectic mess of indescribable items cluttering up the rear cargo room almost entirely .
careful that you dont break anything , lilly ann cautioned jokingly , no , not my stuff , i meant your bones , she burst out into more laughter .
hunt , spade and farmer squeezed into the van and she quickly shut the door behind them .
what a pity that the only place left for helen spade to sit on was tim farmers lap .
sorry bout that , she whispered into his ear with a smile .
my pleasure , maam , he replied startled by his newfound boldness .
i like it when you call me maam , helen purred her agreement .
lilly ann and taylor mounted the front seats .
all comfy back there , taylor teased over his shoulder .
hold on to your mama !
lilly ann screamed when she wound up the engine and sped to a neck breaking top speed of at least fifteen miles per hour .
it was all but impossible to carry on a conversation over the whining engine and the back firing that resumed as soon as they drove off .
they went down the same road that taylor and hunt had walked before .
they passed the trailer house and the tree house and continued to roll through the trees , which were never further away from the street than a few hundred feet .
many of the homes they passed on their ride were sights to behold .
there was a converted feed silo with a winding staircase all the way around the outside and stained glass windows providing light and decoration for the inside , tree houses of all shapes and sizes connected to each other by ladders , rope bridges and small cable cars , and an apple shaped fire engine red construct more than twenty feet tall with a deck on top that was framed by a beautifully carved banister .
at the leisurely speed they were moving about they had ample opportunity to feast their eyes on the unusual architecture that was paraded in front of them .
the further they traveled the closer the houses stood together and the more people crowded the streets .
occasionally they were passing other cars , all of them of ancient build with obvious signs of makeshift repairs to keep them operational .
lilly ann had to slow down more than once to carefully pass a mule or a donkey , which carried loads on their backs or pulled all kinds of wagons behind them .
it seemed that no one was in any particular hurry .
people were obviously familiar with lilly anns van .
they stepped off the street when they were passing by as if they wouldnt trust her driving skills and waved at her and her guests .
after driving at that pace for about thirty minutes lilly ann turned sharp left off the main road into a small side street and parked the car in front of a round clearing .
lanterns of various colors were strung between the limbs of a mighty oak tree at the center of the place to light a great number of tables and chairs , some of them covered with canopies of fabric and straw .
spaced between the tables several clay ovens , fired with aromatic wood , radiated cozy warmth into the dusk .
this is schwyzer house , lilly ann exclaimed , clapping her hands in excitement , best food in town .
anybody hungry ?
the tavern was buzzing with people either sitting at their tables , enjoying food and drink and others running back and forth between the house that stood to the side and the tables to bring an endless supply of large plates with steaming hot food and big mugs of what seemed to be ice cold beer .
lilly ann jumped out of the car and ran up to an old man who sat in a large rocking chair under the big tree close to an oven with a big smile on his face .
his long snow white hair was braided in the back and he was wearing deer leather pants that reached just below his knees and a hat with a pheasant feather sown into the band .
she hugged the old man enthusiastically and kissed him on the cheek while waving to taylor and the others to join them .
papa , these are the travelers that i told you about earlier .
this is taylor , john taylor and these are his friends cody hunt , helen spade and tim farmer .
they came a long way to find us so i thought the least i can do is feed them right , what do you think ?
well , you know , the old man said to her with a twinkle in his eyes , these young lads and lasses , always on the move , never able to sit still for a moment .
go ahead enjoy yourselves .
may be we can have a chat later on .
good to have you here , folks .
lets find a table and get some food , lilly ann ushered them to a vacant spot and sat down .
i hope you like pork , she said , the best item on the menu is grilled pork legs served with fresh horseradish and bread .
sound good ?
one of the waiters came up to their table with a large tray filled with mugs and steins overflowing with the white foam of fresh draft beer .
without asking he put drinks in front of each of them .
willie will be right over for the food order , he said , enjoy the beer !
i didnt even ask if you all wanted to drink beer , but usually when people come here thats what they have in mind anyway , so the waiters dont even ask , lilly ann explained , i can get you water if youd like .
i cant talk for everyone but beer is just fine with me , cody hunt stared greedily at the mugs .
he was first to grab one and hold it high above the table , to our gracious hostess and our good fortune to have found her , he announced waiting for the others to join him in his toast .
everyone followed his lead and clanked mugs expressing their gratitude .
the beer was cold and had a pleasant hops and malt taste , not overpowering but definitely a delight for the palate .
after he finally put down his mug hunt glanced around the table a bit embarrassed .
was he really the only one who had finished his glass in one big gulp ?
taylor rolled his eyes .
no worries , big man , lilly ann encouraged him , there is plenty more where this came from .
we enjoy it when our hospitality is appreciated .
seconds later another foaming mug magically appeared in front of hunt .
he was starting to like this place a lot .
willie , a young man of maybe sixteen years of age , approached their table .
hi sis , he kissed lilly ann on her cheek , whats it gon na be to eat this evening ?
we have grilled pork legs , spare ribs or grilled chicken for the lighter appetite .
he explained to those unfamiliar with the tradition of the restaurant .
why dont you bring us three pork legs and some ribs and chicken for everyone to get a taste , lilly ann ordered , wed also like potato salad , some bread and rolls and dont skimp on the horseradish .
thankle you mucho , muchacho , she added with a sweet laugh .
does your whole family work here ?
taylor asked her after willie had left .
on occasion we all help out , she replied simply , papa founded schwyzer house a long time ago and our family has enjoyed having lots of guests ever since .
i bet its good business too , hunt suggested .
we cant complain about a lack of diners every night , lilly ann kind of not answered the question .
the food came on large serving trays and willie started to carve the wonderfully fragrant meat from the pork legs and cut apart the chicken he had brought .
between the meats , salad and bread there was enough food on the table to feed a party of ten .
lilly ann pointed proudly at the feast and exclaimed , dig in !
with that she helped herself to a hefty piece of pork and a slice of dark bread .
slightly overwhelmed by the abundance of food before them taylor and his travel mates hesitated for a second before they too filled their plates with the delights of the kitchen .
for the time being the only words to be heard around the table were uttered quickly between bites in praise of the supreme quality and tastiness of the meal .
it was a simple enough dinner that they enjoyed and shared together but it could have come from a kings kitchen for all they were concerned .
lilly ann had the time of her life observing the four strangers devour in complete agreement and innocence the treasure they had been offered .
nobody would have believed it when the plates arrived but only a short time later tim farmer and helen spade shared the last piece of pork ribs taking turns in gnawing at the bone until spade dropped it all bare on her plate and announced , i am never going to eat again , but this was good !
everyone around the table laughed at her out of character remark as they all knew exactly what she was talking about .
who saved room for desert ?
lilly ann surprised her guests .
mercy !
no way !
ill burst !
what are we having ?
all eyes turned to hunt who had eaten at least as much as anyone else .
what ?
he protested , a man can ask , cant he ?
lilly ann held her sides from laughing so hard at the perplexed faces around the table .
she looked around for willie and nodded slightly when they made eye contact .
two minutes later the meat plates in front of them had been replaced by a three foot long piece of apple strudel topped with creative patterns of whipping cream .
they claimed to protest at the vicious attack on their waistline but they did it with their mouths full of the most heavenly sweets they had ever tasted .
this was wonderful , lilly ann , thank you so much , taylor said as the meal was coming to an end , any chance that you let me pay for this ?
you already did , she answered without hesitation , we are richer for having had you as our guests .
mi casa tu casa , she added after a short pause with deeper meaning in her words than was obvious .
john , did my little girl feed you right , lilly anns grandfather had come up behind him , come on , lets have a schnapps before it is time for me to hit the mattress .
he had brought a tray with him loaded with six shot glasses filled with an ominous looking clear liquid .
he passed the drinks around to everyone .
i dont recall being introduced properly , he said with a wink to lilly ann , i am fritz , friedrich neuwirt from oberwart in the austrian wine country to be exact , but all my friends call me fritz .
prost together !
with that he raised his glass and finished the drink in one big gulp .
he exhaled loudly and looked encouraging to the others .
taylor was the first to follow suit , after him hunt , spade and farmer .
sorry , i dont usually drink , spade excused herself after an audible burp had escaped her followed by a cascade of giggles .
thats too bad , farmer replied sheepishly , which prompted more giggles from spade .
taylor could not stop to stare at fritz neuwirt slowly grasping the full weight of what he had heard .
you are f. neuwirt , he said to fritz incredulously , you wrote the reports i found in the archives .
it is a most surreal pleasure to meet you , sir .
he grabbed the old mans hand and shook it vigorously .
small world , son , a small magical world indeed , fritz replied with a knowing smile .
chapter 5 bounty !
the night before had ended with another slow motion ride through a wonderland of colored lights and ghostly architecture on both sides of the street .
lilly ann had dropped off the visitors at their campsite with the promise to be back in the morning to help them get started with the collection of genetic code data .
the events of the day had taken their toll on taylor and his crew so they quickly retired to their assigned sleeping quarters and succumbed to the refreshing and life giving darkness of sleep , satisfied that they had made it this far .
the first shimmer of day light peeked reddish over the mountain crest when taylor was awakened by the now familiar rattle of coffee pot and frying pan .
farmer was eager to get started and breakfast always seemed to be a strong argument to get the others out of their sleeping bags .
this time he did not have to search the woods for partridge or quail eggs to cook up his specialty .
to his delight a good fairy had left a wicker basket full of breakfast treasures in front of their camp during the night hours .
he found large brown eggs , thinly sliced smoked bacon , sausages , butter , a jar of honey and two loaves of sweet crispy bread wrapped in a red and white checkered table cloth .
he couldnt wait to see the eyes of his travel companions when he would dish up this royal feast .
minutes later the coffee was exuding its invigorating aroma through the camp and bacon sizzled in the pan .
one by one sleep drunken faces appeared through the tent openings inquiring what all the racket was and why it smelled so deliciously this early in the morning .
it was amusing for farmer to see the grumpy mood dissipate as soon as they got a good look at the wonderful gifts that had been bestowed upon them .
ready for some eggs ?
he greeted them cheerfully while with the skill of an accomplished short order cook he quickly broke the eggs into the pan .
i didnt believe i would be thinking about food for a long time after yesterday night , helen spade spoke what everyone was thinking , but this looks so good , i dont think ill be able to resist .
she added with a laugh slapping her backside , bring it on kiddo , fatten me up .
now there was an icebreaker from an unlikely direction .
suddenly there was laughter and chatting and all of them were wondering about the strange place they had landed in .
they discussed the events since they had met lilly ann on the highway and were excited about the promises of the upcoming day .
farmer and spade had finished their preparations for cataloging the data they were hoping to collect .
it turned out that spade was quite handy with setting up a three dimensional database that would allow them to keep all the scans neatly organized for the subsequent synthesizing process .
farmer had a hard time containing his excitement at the prospect of closely working together with spade at least for the next few days .
they were just about finished with breakfast , licking their plates and slurping the last drops of coffee , well , hunt was licking his plate , everyone else was being a little more civilized using bread to pick the last crumbs off their plates when they heard the unmistakable boom whine boom boom whine that lilly anns van apparently used as its main propellant force .
soon it flew around the corner gleaming in all colors of the rainbow in the morning sun coming to a screeching halt right in front of them .
did you save something for me ?
lilly ann shouted while she hopped out of the vehicle , laughing at the embarrassed looks her question earned .
just kidding , did you enjoy the breakfast ?
i asked gretchen from the huxley farm down the road to bring you some food on her way to the market so you wouldnt have to starve this morning .
so , what do you want to do today ?
she asked full of energy .
taylor could not shake the feeling that they had unwittingly been adopted into a new family .
neither he nor his companions did object to attention they received and the comfort this development provided for them .
if possible , we would like to get started with the gathering of dna samples , taylor took charge of the conversation , can you get us in touch with local farmers and growers ?
lilly anns direct and easygoing attitude made it a lot less complicated to ask for what he wanted without the fear of offending her or scaring her away .
of course , i already talked to a few of them last night , lilly ann replied , and although most of them think you must be very desperate or a bit out of your mind trying to mess with genetics on such a large scale they admire your enthusiasm and are more than willing to help .
anything in particular where you want to get started , cows , sheep , pigs , horses , elephants ?
youve got elephants here ?
farmer blurted out jumping off the rock he was sitting on .
ha , gotcha , just checking if you were paying attention , lilly ann teased , but if you are set on elephant , i am sure i can arrange something .
might take a while , though , she laughed .
thats all right , maam , how about we start with cattle , farmer suggested , after all i promised mr. taylor to have a steak named after him .
do you grow various breeds or did they blend together over time ?
do you grow them separately for dairy and for meat ?
are they held in stables or on pastures ?
are they fed any supplements ?
what kind of veterinarian care do you provide for them ?
whoa , young man , lilly ann tried to contain the flood of questions erupting in farmers mind , i am just the tour guide here .
you need to ask the growers directly .
if its cattle that you want we have to take a little ride out of town .
hop in , i cleaned out the back of the vw a bit so you dont have to sit on top of each other , she said with an impish glance at spade and farmer .
great , now taylor was getting excited , get your gear and lets see that we can get this thing rolling .
the five of them boarded the van the same way as they had done the day before and with great noise they drove off .
taylor was surprised every time that the vehicle actually moved with that little engine laboring like it did .
do you want me to look at your cars motor while the others do the dna scanning ?
i am sure something can be done to make it run quieter , he offered shouting over the noise .
you mean this is not what its supposed to sound like ?
lilly ann asked with a puzzled expression on her face , this is what it always sounded like and it has been in my family for many years .
it hasnt been always as pretty as it is now , though , she added with a wink .
taylor rolled his eyes , yes , it is very pretty , did you paint it with nail polish ?
he obviously did not recognize the great artistic accomplishment within the chaotic collection of colors and shapes .
and no , i do not think this is the way your car is supposed to sound .
it will use a lot less fuel too if it runs better .
ok , lilly ann replied with a gracious smile , if it makes you feel better , be my guest .
i am sure they have a bunch of tools at the farm where we are headed .
taylor felt a lot better about receiving their wonderful welcome and help now that he had something to offer to lilly ann in return .
he just hoped that the ancient engine would cooperate with his mechanical prowess .
does this town have a name ?
he asked .
flugerton , lilly ann answered simply .
it was too cumbersome to carry on a conversation in the loud vehicle so taylor settled into his seat to enjoy the ride through the valley .
lilly ann glanced to the side at taylor happy to see him relax somewhat .
with his worries forgotten for a moment she saw the wrinkles on his forehead smooth a little and the character of his face softening .
she liked very much what she saw .
with a new found joy that painted a big smile on her face she went back to concentrate on her driving .
frank turners farm was the largest cattle producer in the valley .
his family had lost count of exactly how many head of steer they owned since it was obvious to them that there would always be much more than the community could ever consume .
the dairy section of their operation produced an over abundance of milk on their higher elevation mountain pastures that was processed into delicious cheeses and dairy products that were famous throughout the colony .
the main building of the farm looked like it had been there from the beginning of time .
not only was the outside covered with materials and decorations that mimicked the surrounding nature , the expansive structure was built hugging the curvy slope of the steep hills on the sunny side of the valley .
the roof shingles were covered in a thick layer of dark green moss , which helped to keep the heat out in summer and the warmth inside in winter .
the place in front of the house and all the way up to the barns that stood aside was buzzing with activity .
men and women of all ages carried on with their assigned chores and duties in what appeared to be an orchestrated chaos .
there was much talking and shouting and even singing and laughter and although it was obvious that work was being done the scene felt more like a sunday afternoon at the carnival .
lilly ann stopped the car and shouted out the window , hey frank , here come the texicans !
she laughed whole heartedly at her own joke and turned to her passengers , guys , if you want cows , this is the place .
across the place a middle aged man looked up from the hooves of the horse he was about to inspect .
spotting lilly ann and her rolling canvas a big smile revealed an impressive mouthful of gleaming white teeth .
he let go of the horse and patted him on the rump to let him know that he was free to roam and graze .
frank turner was a tall slender man of at least six feet with a full head of ash blond squiggly hair that he unsuccessfully tried to contain under a wide brimmed straw hat .
he grabbed the reigns of a big black and white spotted horse that was loosely tied to a close by fence post .
he effortlessly swung his leg into the saddle and made his way over to the waiting van in an elegant trot .
good morning lilly ann , maam , gentlemen , he tipped the brim of his head , i had a herd of cattle brought down from the pastures this morning .
its the best mix we could find on short notice but i believe you will like them .
pull the van around the barn , dear .
he turned his horse around with a gentle gesture before anyone could say a word and lead the way to the back of the farm buildings .
a maze of cattle chutes and fenced corrals stretched across a large area confining several dozen head of cattle of various ages , breeds and colors , male and female .
the sensory onslaught was breathtaking in the truest sense of the word for taylor and his friends .
only tim farmer did not seem to mind and eagerly jumped out of the car as soon as it came to a halt .
lilly ann got out of the car and walked up the frank turner who dismounted his horse .
he hugged her with his strong arms and lifted her off the ground .
did you come here to marry me after all ?
he looked like a little boy on christmas day .
oh , i would love to , she played along , but i dont think you could handle me .
you would blow a fuse behind that philosophers forehead of yours trying to figure me out , they both laughed and hugged again .
frank , i told you about my new friends from texas , she was a bit more serious , this here is john taylor who found my grandfathers notes and decided to come looking for us .
he says he wants better food for all the people where he lives , but i think he just wants to have a really good steak once in a while for himself .
terribly selfish , isnt it ?
hey , taylor started to protest before turner stopped him .
dont worry john , he said with a friendly jab at taylors arm , nothing wrong with wanting better for yourself , and if it benefits others , all the better .
never mind lilly anns teasing , she is holding out for a better man to come along , can you believe it ?
so , who of you is the scientist ?
frank wanted to know .
that would be tim farmer over there , taylor pointed him out .
i sure hope he is an artist too and has a good sense of humor , otherwise that will be one boring cow he is going to breed , turner said thoughtfully .
he walked over to farmer who was sitting on a fence rail contemplating the collection of animals before him .
good morning sir , thank you for your kind offer to help , farmer greeted .
morning cowboy , frank replied , i figured you would need about two hundred and seventeen complete dna samples to establish a sustainable gene pool .
i selected prime specimen of three distinctive breeds to give you a better spread .
farmer was listening with eyes wide open .
he pulled out spades data pad and punched in some numbers .
you are precisely correct sir , he stuttered in disbelieve , do you have genetic research computers up here ?
turner just laughed and tipped a finger to his forehead .
its in the noggin , junior , you should try it sometime , just a little basic math , right ?
farmer didnt know if he was led on by this rancher or if he just had met a mathematician with a hang for raising cattle .
looking at the beauty of the herd that was waiting for him he didnt really care one way or the other .
he could not wait to get the genetic information of these wonderful animals into his data recorder .
why the long face , farmer ?
helen spade asked when she joined him at the fence .
i dont know , he replied not sure what to say , this place creeps me out .
i expected a backwater primitive community if anything at all and here we are living like the kings .
the cattle , i can see that already , is of higher quality than the breed samples in the university lecture books and mr. turner gives me lessons in genetics math , without a computer for crying out loud .
i have a hard time knowing what to think .
well , then dont think about it and get started with your work , spade pulled him back to planet earth , thatll cheer you up .
she flashed him her biggest sweet girl smile and took the data pad from his hands .
her fingers flew over the virtual keys calling up the database grid they had developed the day before .
cody is going to help sort the animals and bring them to us for the scanning .
thats going to be fun watch the guy wrestle cows , she said mischievously .
it was going to be a long day of hard work .
turner didnt want to keep the cattle in the corrals over night so they had to get all the dna scans done before nightfall .
each of the animals had to be caught and lead down a chute where it could be held still for about thirty seconds while its genetic information was downloaded into the scanners memory banks .
to be sure they would not lose any of the priceless data they paused after every tenth scan to transfer a backup copy to spades data pad .
cody hunt and one of the ranch hands had the interesting task to cut specific animals out of the herd and deliver them to the chute where farmer and spade waited with the scanning equipment .
many of the cows were cooperative and let themselves be led willingly to the harmless procedure but a few of them had other ideas .
it was almost as if these rambunctious creatures had waited for an opportunity to play with their humans .
they bucked and kicked and screamed and had a blast running around in circles to avoid being caught .
it was quite a spectacle to see hunt in his black combat suit , sleeves rolled up and sweat running down his face chasing after a little steer that played catch with him .
more than once , after he had landed in the dust face first the animal would change its mind and cheerfully walk into the chute all by itself .
helen spade was not shy around the animals either .
pretty suit or not , if one of the cows did not hold still long enough for farmer to get a clear reading she was there to soothe and restrain it until the procedure was complete .
it took every bit of ten hours to process the complete herd one cow at a time .
hunt , farmer and spade were tired and dirty and they smelled like last years dung but they had gathered enough genetic information to reestablish a healthy cattle population throughout the southwest , what an exhilarating accomplishment .
right after the dna rodeo had begun in the corrals taylor asked lilly ann about having a go at tuning up her vans engine .
farmer seemed to have everything under control with the sample gathering so he wanted to make himself useful in other ways .
sure , why not , was lilly anns not too enthusiastic reply .
she had looked into the engine compartment at the rear of her vehicle once before and it had taken her almost a week to regain her faith in the machine enough to dare driving it again .
now this taylor fellow wanted to mess around in there and expected the engine to run better afterwards .
she didnt want to spoil his fun but the prospect of having to go hunting for a new transport did not appeal much to her at all .
he seemed so happy when she pulled the car around the barn close to the machine shop so she forced herself to hope for the best and brace for the worst .
taylor disappeared into the shop rummaging around loudly in a quest for the required tools .
he reemerged with both arms filled with wrenches , screwdrivers , oilcans , pliers and contraptions that for sure did not have a name in any language known to man .
he sat his find down onto the ground and began to clean the tools with an old oily rag .
lilly ann was deeply touched at the sight of a man taking the time to clean his tools before using them on her property .
she thought that this spoke very highly of his work ethics .
with all the metal sparkling in the late morning sun taylor opened the back hatch of the boxy vehicle to reveal the ancient engine , a roll of unused cable , three spare spark plugs and a small birds nest .
wow , he exclaimed , this looks interesting .
do you mind if i remove the nonessentials from your car ?
he asked with a wry smile .
the little flat four cylinder engine was covered in centuries old crud and hardened motor oil mixed up to a solid black crust all over the motor .
this is going to take a while , he said to lilly ann , you dont have to watch me if you have better things to do .
i guess , lilly ann answered , but it might be hard for you to work on the engine while i am driving around , dont you think ?
they both laughed at taylors obvious oversight and so he went back to cleaning out the dirt between the cooling fins .
taylor had heard the engine enough to know that a simple carburetor adjustment was not going to make much of a difference .
he decided that he would do a complete field overhaul and use whatever was handy to bring the mechanical parts back to their original specification .
what are you using for fuel up here ?
he asked out of curiosity .
i dont know exactly , lilly ann shrugged her shoulders , i think it is a mixture of alcohol and recycled cooking oil .
i never really thought about it .
terry comes by once or twice a month and fills up the tank , thats all i ever needed to know .
he says he puts new oil into the car every now and then .
it worked beautifully so far .
taylor just looked at her with a raised eyebrow and nodded .
he continued to remove engine parts from the bowels of the van one by one and laid them out on an old cotton sheet in the grass .
after an hour of him disassembling part after part lilly ann was absolutely convinced that no human being would ever be able to put all this junk back together so that it would function to carry her about town and country .
she had made her peace with the idea that she would have to borrow a vehicle whenever she wanted to be independent from hitching a ride with someone else .
taylor on the other hand was reliving memories of countless airplane and other engines he had rebuilt under much worse conditions before .
each and every one of them had worked properly afterwards to great satisfaction of their owners and operators .
he did not doubt for one moment that he could do the same in this case .
with the steady hand of a master surgeon he carefully dug through the neglected mechanical mayhem in the engine bay to reveal the engineering marvel that this motor once was .
patience , care , joy and faith in his skills transformed the mundane job of repairing an old car into a magicians performance that was a delight to watch .
lilly ann lost herself in the observation of taylors deliberate movements , his soothing utterances to himself , to the car and to her .
the spark in his eyes and electric energy of his presence made it hard to take her eyes off him .
lilly ann ?
it took a moment for her to realize that taylor had said her name a second time to wake her from her daydream , i will have to replace the head gaskets , they completely disintegrated when i took them off .
here we go , she thought to herself , he needs a part that has not been produced for more than two hundred years .
bye , bye my trusty old vw .
she took a deep breath to relax before she replied .
ok , do you have any of these head gaskets with you ?
she asked innocently .
he looked at her with an amused smile , you dont think that i can do this , do you ?
why did you let me start to begin with if you didnt believe i could finish the job ?
the thought had crossed my mind , she admitted , but you looked so happy and so eager that i just could not deny you the simple pleasure of playing with my car .
taylor was knocked off his socks , well , he was sitting in the grass already .
he didnt know if he should laugh or cry .
this was the sweetest thing anyone had ever done for him .
you are incredible , he said almost choked by the flood of mixed emotions that swept over him , i can not begin to express how much i appreciate you , but , he added with great emphasis , i can fix this .
we just need to find a small piece of old plastic floor covering or something similar .
you really can fix this ?
lilly ann threw her arm in the air and did a little celebration dance .
you really can fix this !
she shouted for everyone to hear .
she did not waste one thought to the fact that the car was not really broken before he had started to take it apart .
it turned out that many of the farms utility rooms still had very old linoleum floors hidden under rugs or wood panels .
taylor carefully removed one of the plastic tiles and started to clean and polish it with some solvent he had found and water .
he placed the cylinder heads carefully on the linoleum and traced the outlines of the gaskets with a pencil .
lilly ann could not believe her eyes when he picked up a sharp knife and without hesitation cut out the pattern he had drawn .
expertly he mimicked all the intricate curves and openings from the metal template onto the plastic material .
thatll do , he announced after the last piece was removed to form the makeshift gasket , itll run just as new .
his optimism was intoxicating .
now lilly ann was getting excited .
was this man really able to figure out a machine that he had never seen before and that was constructed several hundred years before he was born ?
no matter the outcome , the sheer life giving thrill of attempting the seemingly impossible made it worth the risk of losing her car a thousand fold .
she couldnt wait to turn the starter key to see if he had been successful .
one after another the now shiny and cleaned engine parts disappeared under the back hatch of the van .
taylors movements would have looked easy and effortless to a casual bystander and only his intense focus betrayed the delicate nature of his task .
when he picked up the carburetor to bolt it onto the crankcase he thoroughly studied its design and adjustment mechanism .
he turned this and that screw , loosened and tightened threads and bolts as if to get an innate feeling for function of the apparatus .
after a short while his eyes brightened and a small satisfied smile played around his lips .
he closed the adjustment needles all the way and then counted out loud the number of revolutions while he opened them back up .
he nodded in agreement with himself and dove under the hood to install the part .
just a few more cables to put back into place , he said with his hands still in the engine bay , i guess its time to start her up .
wan na do the honors ?
id love to , lilly ann beamed with excitement , are you sure about this ?
ill tell you in a minute , taylor chuckled , go ahead .
lilly ann turned the key and stepped slightly on the gas pedal .
the starter turned over twice and then havoc broke loose .
the roar coming from the rear of the vehicle was deafening .
it reverberated between the walls of the farm buildings and echoed from the adjacent hills .
the noise was much more akin to the angry howling of a fighter jet than the gentle whining she was accustomed too .
she quickly shut off the motor gesturing apologetic to the people who had run out of the buildings to see what was going on .
what in the ... , she started trying to stay serious through her upcoming laughter , what did you do to my little van ?
i cant drive around like this .
taylor was sitting on the ground behind the car holding his ears .
tears were flowing down his cheeks from laughter .
he was just as surprised and startled by the noise level this little beast was able to produce if one did not put on the proper exhaust muffler .
he had thought he would wait to put on the last part until he could be certain that the engine would run and he would not have to take it apart again .
for the life of him he could not think of a reason why he did not disclose this vital piece of information to lilly ann before she had turned the key .
anyway , the hysterical look on her face when she came running at him was priceless .
no worries , he said to her still gasping for air from laughing .
he held up the muffler trying to look as innocent as he could , once we put this on shes going to purr like a kitten .
lilly ann wanted to beat the metal piece over taylors head for scaring the daylight out of her but he quickly retreated under the car and began affixing the missing part .
care to try again , he asked with a wicked five year old boy grin .
sure , you stay right there , lilly ann laughed back at him .
this time taylors promise came true .
the motor came to life immediately and purred without complaint at a very civilized noise level .
lets go for a test ride , he eagerly suggested and hopped into the passenger seat .
lilly ann put in the first gear and took off with gravel shooting out under the back wheels .
whoa , taylor cautioned , the engine might allow you to go faster now but i dont think the chassis or the breaks are going to agree with that .
keep it slow and be happy that you can hear yourself think for a change .
aye , aye , mon capitaine , lilly ann exclaimed and turned the van around to head back to the farm .
when taylor and lilly ann returned to the farm from their little joy ride frank turner greeted them in front of the main building .
john , thank you for giving that old girl another lease on life , he pointed at the van , what do you think of you and your pals staying at the farm overnight .
we have enough room in the guesthouse and you would be much closer to the other farms to get your specimen for the dna sampling .
no need to be uncomfortable in your tents .
we wouldnt want to be any burden , taylor subjected .
no burden , turner interrupted him , we would love to have you .
in any case , i guess your mates might need a change of clothes and a hot shower after all the fun they were having with the cattle this afternoon .
i guess you could too , he added looking at taylor who had engine grease spread evenly over almost everything he was wearing .
well , thank you so much , frank , taylor accepted the offer , ill ask lilly ann to drive me over to the camp site to gather our gear and bring it here .
later that evening the four visitors sat at a large table in the main house all dressed up in borrowed overalls and flannel shirts with lilly ann , frank turner , his wife , their five children and a number of farm helpers to enjoy a scrumptious feast cooked in their honor .
cody , you were quite the steer wrestler out there today , turner smiled at hunt , very impressive for a guy from the city .
i grew up in the texas flatlands working cattle , hunt replied , and now its payback time for this afternoon , he laughed and put a second huge t bone steak on his plate .
they taste as good as they run , he laughed between hearty bites of meat and potatoes to everyones entertainment .
turner looked at farmer , are you and ms. spade going to oversee the distribution of the genetic material yourselves ?
um , helen is only on loan from her employer in a different field so to speak , farmer avoided to reveal specifics , but yes , i will most likely plan and oversee the integration of the dna into the local gene pool .
actually , helen spade spoke up , i was thinking of staying on the project and helping you out with the data processing , she added hoping not to sound too eager .
really ?
this is great , farmers face lit up as if the summer sun just had come up , i sure can use your help in that department as we all have seen .
a slight shade of red merged into his healthy tan when he saw the amused nods and smiles around the table .
what ?
he said with a helpless gesture and turned back to concentrate on the food in front of him .
that really got everybodys attention and he and spade had to endure friendly stabs from all directions .
later that night a curious yellow cat , stirred up by the soft creak of wooden floor boards , was the only witness to see helen spade sneaking up to the second floor of the farms guest house and slip into tim farmers room like a shadow .
the cat meowed and smiled and went on her way knowing that all was well in her world .
the genetic scanning progressed at a rate that by far exceeded anything the team could have hoped for .
whoever lilly ann asked for samples of crops or life stock brought their finest examples to donate their genetic codes .
at one point it was obvious that they would have to make due with a choice selection of data because their available memory filled up at a neck breaking rate .
there were all kinds of grains they had never heard of before , corn of various size and color , native and exotic fruit and vegetables as well as all kinds of animals , from cows to pigs and sheep and goats to llamas , horses , donkeys and ostriches .
they also collected grass , brush and tree dna samples to give them a fuller picture of the overall genetic makeup of the region .
after a little over two weeks of tireless work during the day and delightful food , drink and entertainment in the evenings the time grew closer when they would have to call their mission completed for the time being and plan for their return trip and the work that awaited them once they got home .
i talked to the weather girls this morning , lilly ann said to taylor after supper one night , they said its going to rain .
five maybe six days from now it will start and keep raining and storming for a few weeks .
the weather girls ?
taylor asked with raised eyebrows .
yes , julie and tracy , she explained , they can read the weather and know it in advance .
they have never been wrong .
i guess that means that we have to get going , taylor acknowledged with a sigh , the airplane is parked without shelter and i cant fly it through a storm .
ill tell the others , well leave tomorrow at dawn .
hunt , farmer and spade took the news without much emotion .
they had had a good time up there in the mountains but they were also looking forward to get going with implementing the genetic data they had collected .
farmer and spade could not wait to explore their newfound closeness in the privacy of their own world so they were in high spirits when they prepared their backpacks and gear for the journey back home .
taylor stepped out into the quiet darkness of the barnyard to find lilly ann sitting on a hay wagon contemplating the straw she was gnawing on .
he knew that this was most likely their last chance to talk in private in a long time .
who is leila ?
taylor asked her without being fully aware of what the question was really about .
lilly ann looked at him thoughtfully and hesitated for a moment .
where did you hear that name ?
she asked back .
i didnt , taylor replied slowly , when i thought of you this morning the name leila popped into my mind and kinda got stuck there .
who is she ?
interesting , lilly ann did not really know how to answer that question , lets just say she is a very good friend of mine who has a habit of making an appearance in strange places or so it seems .
lets just leave it at that for now .
she jumped off her seat onto the sidewalk and snuck her arm under his , pulling him back into the house .
lets have a drink and a toast to your journey , she said , when good friends are traveling its no time to be sad .
you know , i cant miss you if you wont go away .
with that little joke her lightheartedness was back in full bloom .
frank , she shouted through the hallway , our friends are leaving tomorrow , bring out your best schnapps we have to celebrate !
it was an intense but short celebration , for the travelers minds were already set on the road that laid ahead .
what a glorious , wondrous and enriching visit it had been with the forgotten people of the mountains of oz .
chapter 6 geronimo ! ! !
taylor had said his goodbye to lilly ann and their other newfound friends with a strange feeling of sadness .
it wasnt in his personality to abandon a mission or his responsibilities , but the experiences of the last few days stood in such exhilarating contrast to the only way of life he had ever known that it was hard for him to turn his back and face the path that he had chosen .
he was determined to return to irving sector and help introduce the dna samples they had collected into farms and ranches all over the southern regions .
the prospect of flying to the various deployment sites on a daily basis with full support of the council spurred his desire to get back and deliver the rich treasure they had collected .
packed with their personal gear and with an abundant food supply for their journey taylor , hunt , spade and farmer started to trace back their steps that had brought them to the mountain colony a little more than two weeks ago .
this time though , they knew exactly where they were headed and how long it would take them to get there .
taylor hoped that the hike back to the airplane would take only two days since they would save the time they had used to explore the surrounding forest before .
the weather girls predictions of a change in conditions already showed promise to be accurate .
scattered low hanging , dark clouds were slowly wallowing through the valleys driven by a gusty southeastern wind .
it was hard to predict for an outsider how rapidly these clouds would get bunched up against the rising terrain to form a solid shield of rain .
the sun had warmed up the mountains considerably in the last few weeks so there was ample energy available to be burned off in electric storms .
taylor was glad to be on his way .
he had no desire to lose his airplane to the elements and get stranded in the mountains with no reasonable transportation back to their civilization .
the looming weather situation was in all the conversations throughout their two day hike .
farmer was forging plans of how to organize a separate department in meyers research labs to have the resources and freedom to effectively utilize the genetic database they had created .
his excitement and enthusiasm were infectious but every now and then one of them would cast a glance to the changing skies and they would be reminded of the precarious situation they might find themselves in if they did not get to the plane in time before the storms arrived .
they were caught in small patches of rain several times during the first day , so when hunt heard the growling of thunder hours before dawn on the second morning of their journey he urged the others to cut sleep short and take up the hike right away .
lightheartedness from the days in the mountains gave way to urgency and determination .
they upped their pace to get to the landing site as quickly as possible and by early afternoon it seemed as if they had come away only slightly inconvenienced by the few showers they had to cut across .
the sight of the makeshift airstrip and the undisturbed airplane gave them new confidence in their timely departure before the storms would be a factor .
distant thunder had reminded them all morning of the things to come but it seemed that the weather was in no hurry to move up the mountain range .
like the well organized team they had become since they first met , the travelers prepared the airplane for flight .
covers were removed and stowed , equipment and personal effects loaded into the cargo bay behind the back seats and taylor was busy checking fuel reserves , engine condition and the overall airworthiness of the plane .
it took them less than an hour until everyone was strapped into their seats , doors closed and taylor and hunt working through the preflight checklist .
taylor taxied the plane to the downwind end of the field to give them enough room to clear the tall trees on the southern side .
he checked the engine instruments and the flight controls for one last time .
hold on to something , this might get a bit bumpy , he announced through the intercom before he pushed the throttle all the way forward to give them full engine power .
the plane gained speed reluctantly while hopping and bobbing over the various bumps in what was left of the once smooth tarmac .
steadily the small engine propelled them forward to a speed suitable for getting airborne .
taylor allowed the plane to leave the ground and kept it floating in ground effect while it rapidly gained speed .
at the precise moment he smoothly pulled back the stick easing them into flight .
pulling with all its might the engine managed to hurdle them over the trees at the end of the field .
once outside the protected pocket of air that the mountains had provided the plane bounced and rolled in the wind gusts and taylor had his hands full keeping altitude and staying on course .
they could see how the clouds continued to move up from the flatlands , gaining energy and turbulence along the way .
from their front row seats in the sky the towering cumulus clouds all around them painted a clear picture of how close they had gotten to being held hostage on the mountain by the forces of nature .
taylor chose a course that would keep his airplane the furthest away from the ominous clouds .
no words were spoken in the cabin and every soul aboard tried to keep faith in their capable pilot and the untarnished record of the little airplane .
spade and farmer had each others hands clenched in a tight grip to give support and comfort for the other in this for them unfamiliar situation .
hunt sat in the right front seat and stoically pointed out cloud developments for taylor to be aware of .
they had climbed through three thousand feet when the cloud density ahead seemed to decrease .
the blue specks of sky blinking through the grey and white of the storm clouds were more frequent and the outside temperature was slowly rising to a more comfortable level .
just a few more cloud formations to pass and they would be clear of the threatening conditions .
there was no warning .
suddenly the airplane was engulfed in glistering sizzling white light and thunder exploded all around them .
two seconds later the show was over .
what the ... cursed taylor into the panicked screams of his travel mates .
the cabin was filled with the smell of gasoline and a moment later flames began to lick out under the instrument cluster .
lightning strike !
everyone out !
he exclaimed into the intercom , jump , count to three and pull the d ring !
the dna recorder !
farmer complained , i cant leave without it .
he climbed over the back seat into the cargo compartment and started digging for his prized equipment .
make quick , i dont know how long the engine will keep running , replied taylor while he motioned to the others to get out of the plane right away .
relieved he saw the first two parachutes open to guide hunt and spade safely to the ground .
precious moments were lost while farmer pulled the recorder unit out of their luggage to return triumphantly to the passenger cabin .
with horror on his face he saw the pilot seat engulfed in flames and taylor without his parachute sitting in the right front seat trying to will a few more seconds of flight out of the laboring aircraft .
jump !
he shouted , i will try to make it back to the landing site !
he pushed farmer out the door with his left hand while holding on to the control stick with his right .
seeing that farmers chute had safely deployed he turned the plane around ever so slowly to fly it back to where they had come from .
farmer , spade and hunt floated safely to the ground while they helplessly watched the damaged plane descend steeply in a northeastern direction .
it disappeared behind a mountain ridge out of their sight leaving a dark billowing trail of smoke in the sky .
they could not see when the engine finally gave up with a last sputter and a loud bang with taylor trying to get closer to the ground in controlled flight .
he was still about 300 feet above ground when the intense heat became too much to bear and he decided to bail out of the airplane .
he opened the door and turned his head for one last look onto the place that had brought so many hours of joy for him .
the reflection of flames on a polished piece of metal suddenly reminded him of a life motto that he had placed there .
it read , life is not a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in one pretty and well preserved piece , but to skid across the line broadside , thoroughly used up , worn out , leaking oil , shouting geronimo !
unknown author .
a satisfied smile claimed taylors face as he stepped out of the cabin .
did all that , he thought with a feeling of peace overflowing inside him , did all that and more .
he let go of the door handle and while he was plummeting in free fall towards the pine trees below , the mountain ridge echoed back the exclamation mark to his life , geronimooooo ! ! !
hunt had kept an eye on the other two parachutes and tried to identify and remember landmarks and reference points on the horizon in the direction of their landing sites so he would be able to meet up with his two surviving travel companions after they were safely on the ground .
it took him over two hours of shouting their names and fighting his way through thick underbrush before he found helen spade who was trying to free herself from the parachute that had been tangled up in the dense branches of a batch of pine trees .
together they were able to cut her free and get her safely to the ground .
did you see the plane go down ?
spade asked afraid of the answer that she knew already .
hunt was not in the mood to let worry about the fate of his friend diminish his drive to get all of them out of this mess and safely back to the central camps .
i didnt see taylor jump , im sure he had his reasons .
he can take care of himself , he barked , we came out of situations much worse than this all right before .
im not going to write off this old raccoon before i danced at his funeral .
lets go find farmer , i bet well find him about three miles from here in this direction .
he pointed at a distinct mountain peak in the distance .
it was all they could do at the moment anyway and he did not want to lose precious time .
after about half a mile of tracking through dense brushwork they reached a stretch of lighter vegetation with tall pine trees spaced farther apart and not much vegetation in between .
they were able to increase their pace and reached the spot where hunt had thought they would find farmer some two hours later .
it did not take much shouting for them to hear farmers answer back .
he came running down a steep slope towards them almost knocking over helen spade as he embraced her .
i got the recorder but mr. taylors parachute was on fire so he couldnt jump .
he was trying to fly back to where we came from .
when i lost sight of him the plane was still flying .
his words flooded out of his mouth , as he wanted to say everything at the same time .
are you guys all right ?
i cant believe it , lightning for crying out loud !
do you think mr. taylor is ok ?
he just could not stop to talk .
get a grip farmer , spade whispered and kissed him softly on the lips to stop the stream of words .
its all right .
they both turned to cody hunt who was processing what he had just heard .
it makes no sense to try to find taylor , he finally concluded , if he made it lets pray that someone from the colony will find him .
they seem to have a way of knowing what they cant know and of doing the impossible .
he looked the others in the eyes and added , we now have a legacy to fulfill .
for all we know taylor gave his life saving the dna data .
lets make sure we make good use of it .
the three of them sat down to figure out where they were and what the quickest way would be to make it back to irving sector .
they had to be wary of any contact with locals as long as they were outside the protective reach of the council .
their passports would give them freedom to travel through any area that acknowledged the authority of the council and the seize fire agreements but it was uncertain how far north these had any merit .
they agreed to travel the back roads and live off the land as much as possible .
with hunts and farmers skills to procure food and water from the wild they would not have any trouble surviving .
they would have to cover a distance of about four hundred miles , which they should be able to cross within about three to four weeks .
if they were able to arrange for some form of transportation it might be less .
in the end they were lucky .
after only two weeks of hiking arkansas back roads they spotted a south central military convoy close to the texas border .
hunt made secretly contact with one of the drivers and after revealing his credentials they were offered a ride to irving sector .
fifteen days after that fateful lightning strike the trio was back in their familiar surroundings ready to start their new lives .
the implementation of the taylor gene pool was an unprecedented success .
it took many months of preparations and small scale trials before a wide spread organized distribution was approved by the different governing bodies of several regions .
the prospect of substantially improved food resources though , instilled hope throughout the fabric of society that by far surpassed the initial scope of the project .
food brings people together , an old european saying , proved true in many ways unimaginable without the foresight and determination of one man in search for a better steak .
taylor dna became a trademark throughout the western hemisphere for superior breeding stock of all kinds of farm animals and vegetables .
farmer , spade and hunt stayed together as a team for many years successfully improving upon the original set of genetic data without losing the primary goal of purity and originality out of sight .
taylor pigs make better pork who would have thought ?
jack and joe jack lived in the woods .
they were men of burly build , dressed in rough denim pants , colorful flannel shirts and thick woolen jackets .
they looked alike , thought alike , dreamed alike and when they talked they talked alike .
they were brothers , not by birth but in spirit .
they spent most of their days cutting down trees .
you could say they were lumberjacks , what a coincidence .
they not only cut down trees , they also cleaned the branches off the trunks , debarked them and piled them up in elaborate ten feet high clusters to dry the wood for many years .
every year in spring they rebuilt these piles so the moisture would escape the logs evenly without compromising the integrity of the wood grain .
you see , these were no ordinary logs and jack and joe jack were no ordinary lumberjacks .
jack and joe jack were artists .
they carved blissfully inspired symbols of faith out of the best cured and oldest logs .
their artwork was on display on almost every street corner and public place in flugerton and the surrounding areas .
one day in spring jack and joe jack saw a big shiny bird come down from the sky with and angry scream , sail across an opening in the forest , lift up high again just to return and land on the grass .
four people they had never seen before climbed out of the bird and after some clowning around started to march towards flugerton .
jack and jo jack did not have any quarrels with strangers but they also were not in the mood to converse with anyone but each other or about anything than the woods and the carvings .
so they sent off a message to the good people of flugerton that visitors were on their way and went about their business with the trees and the logs .
two sundays and then some later the strange folks came back the same way they had traveled up the valley just in time before the great storms would engulf the mountains .
jack and joe jack observed them climb back into the metal bird and hoppedihop across the meadow before taking to the air into the stormy clouds .
jack and joe jack looked at each other incredulously .
why would someone be flying into the storm ?
they watched the bird grow smaller and smaller as it bounced on the wind gusts and fell into air pockets .
it was almost out of sight when the first lightning of the season struck .
it was a big one too .
a huge beam of light span from one cloud tower to another followed by a mighty thunder roar .
when the lightning ended there was a small back cloud wobbling where the bird had been before .
the black cloud grew bigger and so did the bird .
it was flying slowly and its movements were unsure as if it had tried too much of joe jacks good stuff .
the metal bird sank lower and lower with its scream hoarse and coughing .
when the scream of the bird went quiet it was close enough that jack and joe jack could see flames of fire licking inside and out .
the bird was flying about twice the height of the tallest trees when the door on one side opened and a man fell out .
his scream echoed through the valley , geronimo !
he must be an old native of the land to conjure up the spirit of the great warrior .
jack and joe jack looked at each other and without words started to hurry in the direction where the man had fallen .
maybe geronimo was still alive .
make haste , joe jack said as the first raindrops fell .
all in good time , said jack while scurrying down the slopes just as quickly , the rain will cool his blood .
if he survived the fall hell live .
not minding the thorns and branches whipping their faces and tearing their clothes , the two men ran through the woods that they called home .
years of life in the forest had tuned their instincts to the spirit of all things in the wild , living or not .
direction and distance were sharp in their minds , a knowing as old as the trees and rocks themselves .
they both heard the plane slowly settling onto the trees , breaking through the crowns with great fanfare and slicing to the ground .
rain had squelched the fires .
they knew they were close , just a few more minutes of pressing on .
there !
it was jack who pointed uphill where an olive green suit laid on top of a tall pile of pine branches and bark .
they both knew too well who had left them there , discarded after the trunk had been cleaned to a log and then hauled away .
the branches must have broken his fall , the older one , joe jack , replied .
they climbed up the slope in a hurry and found the man still breathing .
his head was wrapped in the leather jacket that he was wearing , protecting his face .
there was no light in his eyes and his breath was labored and shallow but for having endured such a great fall he seemed hardly bent out of shape .
mister , joe jack tried to evoke a response from the unmoving man , mister , can you hear me ?
he shook his head when his face lit up with an idea .
geronimo , he whispered softly like a prayer .
john taylors eyes flew open , geronimo ?
he uttered in a blink of consciousness before his painful scream was stifled by a merciful darkness that reclaimed his mind .
hell be all right , jack announced confidently , lets get him back to flugerton , and ask lilly what to do .
they used the branches they had cut some days before to build a stretcher , strong but light and pillow soft .
joe jack cradled taylor like a baby and eased him onto the branches .
he took off his jacket and covered the man to protect him from the rain .
without another word they picked up their load .
they knew exactly where to cut through the woods to the wide road that led up the mountain .
a day and a night and a day they walked without rest .
raindrops were their drink and hard bacon strips from their pockets were their meals .
not a single false step , not a stumble or a shake disturbed the peace of the dark that taylor had settled in .
it was almost night when they reached the outskirts of town .
their steps sounded foreign to them on the cobble stone streets but they spoke of the end of their journey .
just a short stretch of road further and they would be able to relieve their aching arms and backs of their cargo .
in a brightly lit window on one of the first houses they passed a little girls face framed by a wild head of chestnut curls appeared .
the odd sight of a man being carried by two let her gasp for words in excitement .
this is lilly anns friend , she exclaimed running back into the house , mommy , lilly anns friend is back .
jack and joe jack are carrying him , quick , i think he is hurt .
the house door flew open and the little girl came running out dragging her mother along .
he had a bad fall , joe jack was an epitome of understatement , lilly , what shall we do with him ?
he is lilly anns friend , the girl repeated , shell know what to do .
go on , lead the way , jack requested .
lilly grabbed his jacket and started to drag him down the street directing them to the house that she knew lilly ann lived in .
lilly ann !
lilly ann !
she started to shout half a street block away .
your friend is back , lilly ann !
the small wooden house was built of angles that were not quite right with windows and doors all of different sizes , not a straight line in sight .
the rounded wall panels were decorated in colorful stucco reminiscent of gingerbread decorations .
it looked as if one could just break off a piece and stick it into ones mouth for a quick snack or desert .
lights came on behind sugar glazed windows before the door swung open with a gentle creak .
lilly ann stood in her slippers and robe to inquire about the tumult the little girl was causing .
she spotted the lifeless figure on the makeshift stretcher .
taylor ?
john taylor ?
the humor escaped her that she used the same words that she first heard from him to greet him back into her life .
what happened ?
she turned to joe jack while pushing them through the door into her house .
he took a fall , joe jack repeated his observation .
the metal bird was struck by lightning and caught fire .
the other ones floated on sails to the ground but this one came back and fell out of the bird into the trees .
hell be all right , he added with the confidence of a child .
lilly ann had them lay taylor on the guest bed and turned around to one of the people who had wandered into the house to see what the commotion was about .
send for edie may and tell her that someone is hurt .
she has a potion that will keep him asleep for a while .
edie may came and sent all the visitors home .
she had a look at taylor and expertly felt his pulse and temperature .
he is strong , she said to lilly ann looking for tell tale signs of how she was feeling , he is going to be fine .
just try not to forget who you really are .
remember that all is well .
she left a small flask with a strong herbal potion and instructions to wet taylors lips with a few drops from it every few hours so he would stay asleep .
every eight or ten hours he was to be allowed to wake up so he would drink some water .
lilly ann sat at the guest bed all night remembering the time they had spent together after they had met that fateful day on the highway .
she could not help to giggle every time she thought about his face when he saw her for the first time hanging upside down from the tree .
she still felt the devilish fun she had had teasing him while guiding him and his friends in circles through the woods .
there was something about john taylor that sat him apart from his travel mates .
she did not know if he knew that he was different .
now he had come back , against his will , or so it seemed , and they would have plenty of time to find out .
the first time she did not re administer the sleeping drugs so he would wake up to drink he opened his eyes and looked at her without recognition .
is this heaven ?
he asked with a drug induced smile .
no , this is flugerton , lilly ann replied softly , brushed his hair out of his eyes and held his head to help him drink .
chapter 7 lilly ann three nights and three days lilly ann sat at taylors bed .
edie may came by every now and then to check on his condition .
on the third day she advised to slowly reduce the dosage of the sleep inducing drug to give taylor a chance to regain conciseness more frequently .
most times when he opened his eyes he just groaned in pain and quickly fell back into the soothing darkness .
his question from the first night remained the only words he spoke .
visitors came and left throughout the days and nights to keep lilly ann company , bring her food , brew some tea or just to see the man who had fallen out of the sky and lived .
fritz neuwirt was one of the most frequent guests , always bringing some favorite dish for his granddaughter , sitting with her recalling john taylors hilarious first night in flugerton at the schwyzer house .
i think he knew he would be back , he tried to keep the conversation going , but i dont think this is what he had in mind .
i knew it too , lilly ann said softly .
i guess he couldnt leave and he couldnt stay .
its a dilemma that can tear a man apart .
his friends made it out all right , fritz added , theyve been seen tracking south so i guess they are trying to make it back to where they came from .
they probably think john didnt make it .
i wonder why he didnt use his parachute .
jack said there was a fire , lilly ann mused , who knows .
they both sat quietly for a moment with their eyes closed , trying to get back to the lighter beginning of their conversation .
i cant feel my legs , taylors cracking voice startled both of his hosts , my whole body hurts but i cant feel my legs .
where am i ?
good morning taylor , john taylor , lilly ann made an effort to keep a light tone in her voice , you are back in flugerton .
i am lilly ann , do you remember ?
this is my house .
taylors eyes got back some of their clarity but his face was still contorted from pain .
yes , lilly ann , i remember , he was fighting for words before sinking back to sleep .
i cant feel my legs , he repeated groaning with his eyes closed , are they still there ?
let me see , lilly ann couldnt help but teasing him , one , two , three , four , she lifted the blanket and took a peek underneath , five .
yep , all there .
sorry , we had to undress you , she giggled , your flight suit was in shreds and we thought you wouldnt object for us to apply some ointment to your burns .
give the man a break , her grandfather scolded her laughingly , hasnt he suffered enough ?
ill leave you two alone .
dont want to get in between this one .
still laughing he retreated out of the house .
do you make a joke of everything ?
taylor frowned at her .
oh no , lilly ann protested , i only joke about really important stuff .
i get very serious about the little things like cleaning my toenails or tying my shoelaces .
are you hungry ?
taylor was looking at her with a mixture of annoyance and appreciation , he wasnt quite sure yet which one he was wanting to keep the upper hand .
amazingly though , for a moment there he had forgotten all about the questionable shape his body was in and he was able to formulate a clear thought without having to fight against passing out again .
food would have been furthest from his mind in his current condition but for some reason at the mention of it he did feel hungry .
how long have i been out ?
he was wondering .
a few days , lilly ann answered vaguely .
how did i get here ?
are my friends all right ?
did a doctor examine me ?
do you even have a doctor here , or a hospital ?
the more taylor grew awake the more an avalanche of questions stormed through his head .
how is my airplane ?
lilly ann gently put her index finger across his lips .
no more questions for now , she said softly but determined , you are safe , your friends are safe , that is all that counts .
you look hungry , she changed the subject , grandpa brought a wonderful chicken soup with little meat dumplings .
thatll get us some of your strength back .
i need to see a doctor , taylor insisted , i need to know whats wrong with my legs .
first you eat , then you sleep some more and then well talk about everything .
i promise .
lilly ann put a deliciously fragrant bowl of soup on the nightstand and got ready to feed taylor .
thank you , but i can eat myself , he pouted .
intense pain shooting through his bruised arm and shoulder quickly ended this short lived attempt at regaining some control .
he sank back into the pillows defeated .
the soup still smelled enticing .
be a good boy and open up wide , lilly ann had a devilish good time feeding and teasing taylor and even though he would not ever have admitted it he did not feel so reluctant anymore either .
the warmth of the soup and the love and care it was prepared and delivered with did wonders to taylors physical and mental condition .
he forgot for a moment all about his unanswered questions and his uncertain future and just lost himself in the good feeling that permeated his body .
lilly ann had not even placed the spoon back into the empty soup bowl before taylor slipped back into a peaceful slumber .
lilly ann had pulled a little red divan next to taylors bed and had made herself comfortable with a big pillow and a soft quilt .
she was pleasantly surprised when the first interruption of her sleep was the morning sun peeking through the half closed drapes and a gentle rap at the front door .
her face was caught between a yawn and a smile when she looked upon her guest sound asleep and breathing easily .
her feet found the slippers they were searching for as she got up to greet the first visitor of the day .
i brought some fresh bread for breakfast and a bowl of strawberries , edie may said and kissed lilly ann on the cheek , you must be hungry and our friend needs to keep his strength up too .
am i glad to see you , lilly ann hugged the other woman and added , taylor was starting to ask a lot of questions yesterday but all i could do was calm him with some of grandpas chicken soup .
he fell asleep right afterwards .
thats good , edie may said confidently , he ate , slept and his mind is working .
i think we are in good shape .
they both went back into the house and started to prepare breakfast .
taylor awoke to the sound of dishes and kettles being moved about somewhere in the house and an enticing smell of fresh bread and herbal tea was lingering in the air .
the screaming pain from the days before had given way to a dull throbbing in his head and back and the burns and bruises all over his body started to itch more than sting , all in all not a terrible shape to be in after jumping out of a burning airplane three days earlier .
his mood however came crushing down at the first thought of his legs .
he still did not have any feeling or control from his pelvis down .
panic began to spread through his thoughts .
oh , you are up , good morning , lilly ann cheerfully rushed into the room and opened the window drapes , how is geronimo feeling today ?
taylor looked at her with raised eyebrows as if to suggest that she had lost her mind .
of course , how could you know she explained at the unspoken question mark on his face , your tale is all over town .
jack and joe jack heard your battle scream as you jumped from the plane .
geronimo !
she screamed at the top of her lungs until the word turned into uncontrollable laughter .
you are a strange cookie , john taylor .
youll have to tell me what it means some time .
taylor did not know if he should join lilly ann in her laughing fit or if he should throw pillows at her .
how could she poke fun at him at the sight of his obvious misery ?
despite the nagging feeling that he was betrayed some well deserved empathy or even pity he could not help himself but chuckle at her outrageous display of disrespect for the distress he found himself in .
now this is a death bed i could get used to , an unfamiliar voice said from the door to the hallway , we have not yet been introduced properly and if we wait for this laughing bag it might never happen , she pointed at lilly ann who was still having a ball with herself .
my name is edie may , the woman said and added with an ever so faint wink of her eye , i took your clothes off .
she waited if her words had any impact on taylor at all .
edie may is our keeper of the lilly book , lilly ann boasted only earning herself more raised eyebrows .
i think this has time , dear , edie may changed the subject , john , are you up to some breakfast ?
taylor didnt quite know how to respond .
it seemed that whenever some explanation was in order to shine light on the confusing situation he was in , the subject of food got in the way of satisfying his curiosity .
however , it seemed as if he would have ample time to sort everything out so why not follow their lead for now .
well , edie may , it is a pleasure to make your acquaintance .
i do have burning questions with no answers as of yet , but if you ladies say it is time to eat , lets eat .
taylor tried to be on his best manners .
edie may seemed to have some higher status in this community and her more reserved demeanor stood in stark contrast to lilly anns little girl antics .
he almost felt as if he had arrived at the grown up table and he liked that .
bread and butter , ham and honey , strawberries and tea appeared on a serving tray next to taylors bed .
the tableware was an eclectic collection fitting the house and its owner .
no two pieces of porcelain or silverware were the same and some of them looked as if they were museum pieces from long forgotten centuries .
the arrangement of plates , saucers and utensils on the tray exuded an artistic quality akin to still life paintings from the great masters of old .
for the second time in as many days taylor felt the undeniable positive effect the food had on his general wellbeing .
the tea was rich in aroma and had a strong tart aftertaste that reminded him of root brews he had enjoyed while visiting with natives in alaska .
every sip he took made him more awake and alert .
layers of veil seemed to be pulled back from his clouded mind every minute he spent listening to the two women in his company talk about everyday things .
it somehow struck him odd that no one would turn their attention to his dilemma or to find a way out of it but he felt warm and protected in their presence so he tried to relax and just go with it .
a man can only eat so much or stand female conversation for so long , so john taylor could not help himself but put an end to the lovely time they were having .
how did i get here ?
he asked suddenly , i remember jumping out of the plane but nothing until i woke up here .
i was sure i would be gone before i hit the ground .
i dont understand .
lilly ann and edie may exchanged a quick glance and with an almost unnoticeable shrug of her shoulders edie may answered , jack and joe jack saw you fly off and then the lightning strike and they saw you come back and fall out of the plane .
all three of them felt the mood change in the room .
it was as if a cold damp cloud had wandered into the room and caught a hold of them .
lilly ann felt a great temptation to clear out the air with a joke but just for once she decided to let the situation run its natural course .
maybe if all the questions were asked and all the answers were given they could continue working on a solution just as they did since the moment taylor had been brought in .
who are jack and joe jack ?
taylor was curious , why did they follow us and we didnt see them ?
they didnt follow you , lilly ann explained , they are always working in the woods , cutting logs for their sculptures .
they saw you when you first arrived and they saw you leave .
when they heard your scream falling out of the plane they went looking for you .
you fell into a fresh stack of branches and tree bark they had left there a few days earlier .
it must have broken your fall , edie may continued , they saw that you were unconscious but alive so they built a makeshift stretcher and carried you here .
when they brought you into town lilly recognized you and told them to bring you to lilly ann .
not much to it really .
what do you mean , not much to it , taylor looked at her incredulously , this is a bona fide miracle .
how can i ever thank jack and joe jack or you two , for that matter .
i owe them and you my life .
the drama and excitement had completely wiped away his calm and relaxed attitude from only a minute before .
i guess you could see it like that , edie may acknowledged , but we would rather you didnt .
you see , there was a time when a man or woman who saved anothers life became responsible for their wellbeing and for all their deeds .
that is a big burden to carry around .
how about we say that we all did what we thought was the right thing to do given the circumstances and leave it at that .
things might get very complicated otherwise .
her words were like the soft sand on the beach subduing the raging wave that crashed onto the shore .
it took taylor a few seconds to absorb what he just had heard .
his face brightened and an imaginative mind could almost say they saw a smile play around his lips .
i remember saying the exact words more than once to men and women i had the opportunity to help .
i just never thought i would find myself on the receiving end of them .
he nodded in understanding .
this thought he could live with , funny how that works .
thank you for tending to my burns and scrapes and of course for putting me up and feeding me .
i will have to find a way to repay you somehow .
he could not completely let go of the idea of quid quo pro yet .
i could break my car so you can fix it again , lilly ann suggested only half jokingly .
i dont think we will have to go that far to satisfy johns desire for remuneration , edie may cautioned smilingly , but there is something , john taylor , that you could do for us .
anything , taylor said eagerly , just name it .
hmm , in a little while , edie may wanted to get all the open issues out of the way first , how are your legs doing ?
i dont know , taylor was getting agitated again .
i cant feel them and i cant move them .
i guess my back was hurt worse than it appears from the outside .
i need to get to a hospital and under the care of a good surgeon quickly .
this might be a bit tricky , edie may responded cautiously , we dont really have physicians around here at all .
we also do not have the means to transport you off the mountain safely and quickly .
the other question would be where to bring you in the first place .
the next suitable hospital might be hundreds of miles away .
are you saying that i am stuck here without proper medical care ?
taylors feelings whirled between anger and hopelessness , this place seems so happy and healthy and civilized and you are telling me you have no doctors ?
that is true , edie may was trying to make herself understood , you see , we are happy and healthy and for the most part civilized , thats why we dont need doctors .
if one of us happens to injure themselves once in a while they usually heal very quickly .
its true , lilly ann insisted , another good feeling meal or two and youll be good as new .
is that so ?
taylor felt the urge to leash out at somebody , this is no scraped knee that you can blow a kiss on and its all good .
this is a broken back and i dont know about you , but i sure dont know many people running around with broken backs that miraculously healed by themselves .
well , there is trevor and jimmy who fell off a cliff , mariah whos horse bucked in a storm , and ... lilly anns voice was trailing off as she saw that her list of names did not have the desired effect on taylor .
he was furious .
may i ask you something , john , edie mays soft voice had an instant effect of deescalating the emotional roller coaster that was raging in the room , how many people do you know who broke their back and walked after being under the care of a good surgeon ?
the question struck taylor like a bolt of lightning .
his eyes grew big and his face turned white as paper .
none , he said with a lifeless voice , none .
i am so sorry , its my own damn fault that i am in this situation and i blame you of all people , who saved my life and care for me .
i am so sorry .
he turned his face to the wall in a vain attempt to hide the fear in his face .
dont be sorry on our behalf , edie may said calmly , you are young , you are strong , you are smart and you are alive .
its all up to you how your life will unfold from here on .
taylor turned his head to look her in the eyes and nodded slowly .
about that thing that you could do for us , edie may got up from her chair signaling that her work was done for the day .
there was a wicket twinkle playing in her eyes as she added walking out the door , dance with us for summer solstice .
sing with rapture and dance like a dervish , would you ?
her giggling when she walked down the hall was so out of character that taylor couldnt help but succumb to the smile and the feeling of hope radiating from his stomach .
is she for real ?
he asked lilly ann .
as real as they come , she answered tucking him in and blowing a kiss on his forehead .
youll feel better after you sleep a bit .
lilly ann picked up the tray with the breakfast dishes and tip toeing she left the room .
the next morning taylor felt almost his old self again .
lilly ann had spent the night in her own bedroom upstairs confident that her house guest would be all right on his own .
the rain was still falling on and off and distant thunder told a tale of storms raging higher up the mountains .
the soothing splatter of water drops against the bedroom window made the fact that he was confined to this small room almost bearable .
lilly ann chirped her good morning into the room on her way to the kitchen to get breakfast ready .
she came back a moment later to ask if he felt up to scrambled eggs with ham , which taylor gladly agreed to .
one more thing , he added hesitantly , do i smell oh , dont worry about that , lilly ann interrupted him , well get you into a bathtub soon enough .
thank you , that is very helpful , taylor answered with a half embarrassed , half amused smile , what i wanted to ask before you interrupted me was , do i smell coffee ?
i guess you are right though , i do smell a bit ripe , dont i .
for the first time taylor saw lilly ann for a moment lose her lighthearted cheerfulness .
her face turned an interesting shade of red and it took her several tries to get im so sorry .
out .
the moment passed quickly and next thing she was almost on the floor holding her sides , laughing uncontrollably .
still laughing and repeating , im so sorry .
she ran out of the room .
she was back a moment later triumphantly holding a small dented metal can in her hand with a faded almost unreadable label .
i found this on the cupboards when i first moved into this house , she said very pleased with herself , i thought it was some sort of conserved food from way back when the first settlers came .
i never threw it out because i thought it was very secretive and exciting and of course in case someone would claim it as their heritage .
when you mentioned coffee i remembered that the label reads illy .
espresso coffee .
made in italy .
it is still sealed .
wan na try it ?
taylors eyes lit up at the sight of the unexpected treasure .
he could still remember the first time he had had that kind of coffee in the southern regions during his stint in the armed forces .
did you by any chance also find a strange looking aluminum pot that can be unscrewed in the middle with a metal filter in it ?
he asked hoping against hope .
yes , howd you know ?
lilly ann asked surprised .
thats the pot to cook espresso coffee , he explained , ill show you .
lilly ann went back to the kitchen to find the pot that taylor was talking about .
she hadnt seen that thing in almost ten years but she knew exactly where she had put it .
behind the jar of dried fennel under a leather bound journal that she had written in her sudbury years was a wooden box with old kitchen utensils .
she was absolutely positive to find the pot under a pile of bent and tarnished silver ware .
ha , she exclaimed proud of her chaos controlling genius mind , dont anybody ever tell me again that i am not organized .
she picked up the pot and ran to show it to taylor .
thats it !
he was excited like a little boy on christmas morning .
he watched lilly ann carefully peel back the plastic lid from the coffee can and pull the aluminum lid open .
a small hiss of air rushing into the can told them that the vacuum seal had not been broken before .
the rich aroma of dark roasted , finely ground coffee instantly filled the room .
taylor deeply breathed in the intoxicating fragrance .
he intently watched lilly ann as she for the first time experienced the overwhelming sensation that tantalized her senses .
she just stood there , her eyes closed , lost in the moment , taking in the full sensory onslaught until she was able to make up her mind .
hmm , she purred softly , this is nice .
what do we do with it now ?
put some of the coffee grinds into the filter and press it down .
fill the lower part of the pot half with water and screw it together .
then put it on the stove until you hear it steam and sputter .
then you can pour the coffee into small cups .
voila , italian espresso .
ill be right back , lilly ann said skipping out of the room .
a few minutes later she came back with two small cups that looked as if they were borrowed from a childs toy tea party set , filled with steaming hot black aromatic liquid .
be careful not to burn your tongue , taylor cautioned , this really smells exquisite .
thank you .
he slowly brought the cup to his lips and loudly slurped the drink .
the rich body of coffee taste exploded in his mouth extracting a satisfied moan from him .
lilly ann followed his example .
her eyes bulged as she tried to decipher the unusual complexity of taste elements that danced on her tongue .
it took even longer this time for her to know if she liked the sensation .
she decided that she loved it .
whew , oh my goat , she exclaimed , i cant believe i had this in my kitchen all these years and a man had to fall out of the sky to show me .
this is wonderful .
what a truly royal treat !
thank you , john taylor , she added lovingly .
they sat quietly taking their time to enjoy every sip of the invigorating drink to the fullest .
tell me something , taylor finally broke the silence , i cant shake the feeling that edie may could just zap me with a magic wand or something to heal my back and my legs .
am i right ?
and if so , why would she not just do it ?
lilly ann looked long into his eyes wondering how much he wanted to understand already .
you know how it is , she decided to take it one step at a time , you give a man a fish and he eats for a day , and with her very own understanding of logic and reality she concluded , you teach a man how to fish , and youll never see him again .
there it was again , the giggling and skipping and screaming through the hallways .
what ?
was all taylor could get out .
he knew that there was a method to this madness and he was determined to find out what it was .
cause he will be out fishing with his buddies all the time , she lectured running out of the room .
chapter 8 sixty eight seconds edie may was back later that morning to check on taylors burns and bruises .
she removed the bandages and reapplied a cooling gel with a strong herbal scent to his battered skin .
you are healing quickly , john , she commented satisfied , it seems the company of our very own town reporter becomes you .
town reporter ?
taylor had that feeling again that he was missing vital information , i dont understand .
oh , lilly ann didnt tell you ?
edie may acted surprised , she writes and sketches our town newspaper , the flugerton chronicle , it usually is a weekly edition .
actually , there were some disappointed readers when she missed two weeks while she was playing with you and your friends at the farms .
everybody was so excited that she gave a detailed report the day you left .
i didnt know you had a newspaper , taylor was genuinely impressed , do you have a printing press to produce the copies ?
oh no , edie may laughed , lilly ann makes two or three copies by hand and sometimes she has one of her apprentices help make a few more .
these get handed down from house to house until everyone has seen them .
i usually get to keep a copy of each issue in my archives .
they are quite hilarious and very creative works of art , you should read the one about your visit .
i was hoping we would make the papers , taylor joked , but this is not exactly what i had in mind .
i cant wait to read it .
as if on cue lilly ann popped her head through the door .
i had a feeling that you were talking about me , she said innocently , i hope it was something nice .
we were just talking about your day job , dear , edie may replied , why didnt you tell john about the chronicle ?
i guess it never came up , lilly ann shrugged , there was always something exciting going on .
i hardly thought about it myself in all that time .
would you want to see the latest issue ?
she asked in taylors direction , you and your friends are in it , sort of .
ill fetch it real quick .
with that she ran out the door .
through the open window taylor could hear her skipping down the street to see which house still had a copy of her work .
edie may was putting the bandages back on in a skillful pattern that did not put pressure on the sore skin when lilly ann was back at the door with a neatly folded stack of roughly cut paper in her hands .
she handed it to taylor with the disclaimer , there is a bit of artistic freedom and abstraction in the way i tell stories .
anyway , here it is .
the first thing taylor noticed was the unusual texture and color of the paper .
it was obvious that it was handmade stock and that someone put much effort , time and skill into fabricating the sheets .
he marveled at the touch of the paper and the solid yet smooth surface that almost seemed to caress his fingertips .
this is astounding paper stock , where did you get this ?
he admired the material .
i make the paper myself with the help of a few youngsters who want to learn , lilly ann replied not without pride , we do one big batch every year and it always seems to last long enough for everybody .
we make different textures and mix in various ingredients for effect so that every artist or writer can select their favorite .
this one is from my personal secret recipe .
she ran her hand tenderly over the pages brushing slightly against taylors hand .
the electric discharge at their touch could have lit up a room , it definitely lit up taylors face .
his eyes searched for lilly anns trying to sort out the unfamiliar emotions that welled up from his stomach .
if butterflies were rhinos he would have been in big trouble .
taylor somehow regained his composure and while their eyes were still locked he awarded her his biggest smile and gently removed her hand from the papers that she had not let go of .
may i , he broke the silence , i am dying to see what your creative genius had to say about me and my travel mates .
suddenly lilly ann felt very self conscious about the way she had portrayed the events and characters of the past weeks and how it might look in the eyes of the man who in this moment meant something completely different to her than just seconds ago .
i dont know , lilly ann said slowly while reluctantly relinquishing the issue of the chronicle to taylor .
edie may was quietly standing by , enjoying the rush of emotions that played out in front of her .
never before had she seen lilly ann erupt in such a whirlwind of feeling sensations , leading her to search and find new ways to navigate these uncharted waters .
the sweet delicious energy that filled the room tasted to her like a tropical fruit cocktail with just the right amount of rum , salt and spice .
it was truly a moment when time stood still and life was created anew .
of course like all moments since the beginning of time , this one too passed .
drowned out and shoved back to join eons of past by a chuckle at first , held back out of courtesy , but soon followed by a rapid succession of laughing out loud and violent coughs that shook taylors body and switched over his face with delight and pain .
he would not put down the paper to afford himself some rest , tears streaming down his cheeks from laughing that hurt in every muscle and made him cough which hurt even more .
he turned page after page and drank in the upside down view of his world that unfolded before him .
he could not get enough of the intricate insights into his very own reality spun by a mind so all together different from his .
small things became valuable and important and big things , like he himself , became tiny to give perspective and newness to a familiar world .
when he was finished with the last page he turned the paper over and read out loud the words on the cover page that accompanied a drawing which was painted over in bright watercolors .
hi , im tshonnie taiwor fwyboy .
i wan na look how your moo cowsies and oink piggies are put together , okey ?
another laughing fit shook his body .
the picture showed four toddlers lined up next to each other looking up a tree to a little girl hanging upside down from a branch above them .
the little boy with the speak bubble had an uncanny resemblance with taylor down to the squadron patches on his leather flight jacket which were replaced by smiley faces and peace signs .
there was a little toddler in a black jump suit with a buzz cut that would have made cody hunt proud and he could have sworn this was tiny farmer and spade holding hands and blowing kisses at each other .
okey , he added with a baby voice , quoting the reply of the girl in the tree .
the next page showed the same lovable characters standing in front of indian tipis exclaiming synonymously , wee arr hungwy !
this is so funny !
look at this !
how do you come up with this ?
taylor exclaimed in between quoting more passages of cartoons with them chasing incredulously looking calves , sheep and piglets , little johnny intensely focused on reattaching a wheel to a tricycle .
there they were riding on the back of what looked much more like a shiny duck than an airplane .
the last page showed the little girl clenching a stuffed animal with her tiny hand , looking after four little figures disappearing in the distance saying , bye , bye , taiwor .
be bwave an come back voon .
it took all of taylors self control to hide the tears that were flooding his eyes when he saw that last picture .
i love it , he finally said looking up from his reading , your observations and the way you reflect them in the drawings are at the same time hilarious and insightful .
what a great pleasure and honor to see and read this .
thank you so much for sharing it with me .
i am so glad you like my quirky sense of humor , i really am , lilly ann said relieved .
taylors gaze wandered between lilly ann and edie may as he seemed to search for a way to formulate a question .
may i ask you something ?
he started not sure where this would lead him , there are many things that i have seen or heard someone say since i got here that did not make much sense to me .
at first i thought it was just a different way you use language that has developed over time but now i begin to believe that this is only part of the whole story .
there is something common in the way each of you relate to reality and i get the feeling that it is quite different from what i am used to .
he tried to read in their faces if what he had said had any impact on them at all .
lilly anns eyes hung on his lips in eager anticipation of what he would say next while edie may was a picture of serenity .
her inward smile and the time and space transcending depth of her peaceful eyes gave him the courage to go on .
for example here , in the copy between the pictures you write , it was a rare adventure to experience fully action oriented people who have no awareness of their vibrational nature or have ever heard of abraham or the law of attraction .
i admire their determination with which they accomplish mighty tasks despite their doubts and fears .
how would they react upon the discovery that sixty eight seconds of deliberate focus can replace hours , days or years of diligent labor and struggle ? , he paused to let the words sink in , i am not illiterate , but i have no clue what i just read , he added with some frustration in his voice .
lilly ann jumped up from her chair not able to sit still any longer .
i knew that he would ask , she squealed in delight , i told you edie may .
that was definitely him asking , right john ?
can we tell him now , pleeeease ?
she was impatiently hopping up and down the small room .
can anyone explain to me whats going on ?
taylor inquired getting a bit uneasy , what does a broken man have to do around here to get some answers ?
he added jokingly .
well , john taylor , edie may turned to him with a promising smile , you have questions and we will do our best to find answers with you .
just a word of caution , once you understand what we are about to reveal you might want to be a little more careful calling yourself a broken man , but first things first .
lilly ann pulled the chair closer .
she sat on the edge of her seat fidgeting at the building suspense .
taylor looked at her not quite sure what to make of the situation .
edie may leaned forward just a little bit to add weight to what she was about to say , the reason lilly ann is so excited is that we usually refrain from offering any information about our philosophies or about our understanding of how our world works to anyone without them specifically asking for it .
in fact , we do not ever push any information or teachings onto anyone , not even our young ones , if they dont express a clear desire to learn about a specific subject .
we have a place called sudbury that is modeled after an ancient schooling experiment where our children go to learn .
taylor listened intently looking back and forth between lilly ann and edie may who continued , you are correct in your observation that we perceive the world from a different standpoint than probably most people do outside of this valley .
it is our most basic believe , and our daily experiences confirm it , that we create our world and our life by what we think , rather than by what we do .
and we do not mean this in the sense of a logical , practical succession of deed follows thought but in a direct molding of the substance that everything is created of by our thoughts .
the passage that you quoted from the chronicle mentions two of the pillars of our philosophy , the law of attraction and its most profound teacher , abraham .
are you talking about the biblical abraham ?
taylor asked , i am familiar with the story but always thought of it as a historical fable of ancient middle eastern peoples .
not exactly , edie may continued cautiously , the abraham we are referring to was a teacher who appeared at the eve of the twentieth century in north america , who left an extensive volume of scripture and supporting documents for us .
as we understand it today , abraham was not a single person but a collective of teachers that spoke at gatherings throughout the country through the voice of a woman by the name of esther .
edie may got the impression that she was losing taylor quickly to the esoteric direction this talk was veering off to .
but that is not the really important stuff , is it ?
lilly ann came to the rescue , remember the first thing that you heard me say when we met on the old highway ?
how could i ever forget ?
taylor laughed with restored interest , you screamed , what is the most important thing ?
me and the others almost peed our pants the way you scared us .
and what was the right answer ?
she guided him like mother duck .
the most important thing is that i feel good , i remember , taylor mocked her , you never cared to explain what that meant , come to think of it .
i think you will have to be a little patient with us , john , edie may interjected , for us this is how we have lived for generations .
every little kid knows all about abraham and law of attraction and everything that comes along with it .
it is not quite obvious to us where to start explaining it to a novice in the matter .
all right , taylor had overcome his first spell of doubt and disbelieve , as things stand i will have a lot of free time on my hands and if you are patient with me , so will i .
maybe we start with the basics .
you mentioned law of attraction .
that seems to be something an engineer like myself can wrap his brain around .
that is a great idea , edie may agreed , why not start with science and go on to the more practical stuff from there .
this is boring , lilly ann complained to the amusement of the two grownups in the room , that which is likened , onto itself is drawn , she recited the law , there you have it .
can we move on to something more fun now ?
oh dear , edie may said laughing , have we used up our allotment of adult time with you already ?
i think we might have to give john just a teeny bit more information to chew on so he can understand what you say at least some of the time .
yeah , yeah , lilly ann would not have any of it , ill be in the kitchen preparing something to eat .
thatll give you some time to be all serious .
with that she skipped out of the room and started to noisily rummage around all over the house .
well , lilly ann is correct , that which is likened , onto itself is drawn .
do you have an idea what that could mean ?
edie may was curious about taylors understanding so far .
this sounds a lot like magnetism or gravity , i just dont know how it could be a universal law that pertains to all things in life , taylor concluded .
edie may nodded her head , i think there is one idea you are not aware of that will make it fit together .
you see , our bodies , as all physical matter , are a highly focused form of energy .
the properties of this focused energy are defined by its vibration or frequency .
in fact , it is always the interplay of a number of vibrational frequencies that provide the information for matter to be formed .
energy always flows and its properties or frequencies are always changing .
ive read about similar ideas from the time when scientists gave up on quantum physics in the late twenty first century , taylor tried to understand the concepts .
i would not know about that , said edie may , but the key factor for practical use of that information is , that there is a simple method to manipulate the frequency content of your experience in a very direct way .
really ?
im sure that secret would be worth a fortune where i come from , taylor interrupted full of excitement .
edie may smiled in anticipation of the surprise she had on hand for her student .
the tool we use to manipulate and mold the energy that creates worlds , directly and deliberately , is found between our ears .
she could not help herself but tease taylor a little bit and get his thoughts swirling .
she continued before taylor had time to express his confusion .
thoughts are vibration .
thoughts have a frequency .
the frequency of your thoughts directly draws to you the matching frequency content in your life experience .
there was a moment of silence before taylor found words again .
okay , this is a lot to take in , but for the arguments sake lets assume that your statements are correct .
how do i get my thoughts to mold energy ?
how can i learn this ?
is there a method or do i just have to concentrate ?
this all sounds a bit like voodoo to me , to be honest .
good questions , john , edie may acknowledged , first , you dont have to do or know anything special to do this .
as a matter of fact , you can not not do this .
this is how the universe works .
if you know it or not , whatever you give your attention to will cause an equivalent vibration to show up in your experience .
what do you mean by equivalent vibration ?
taylor asked .
the thoughts that you entertain in your mind draw from you an emotional response .
the manifestation that you attract with your thoughts will call forth the exact same emotional reaction from you , every single time .
this is what lilly ann meant when she said , the most important thing is that i feel good .
if you can maintain a positive emotional mood or vibration you will live the equivalent positive life experience .
well , everybody wants to feel good , but thats not always going to be possible , depending on our life circumstances .
there is this thing called reality that often gets in the way of feeling good , you know ?
he added the last sentence with a side glance at his motionless legs .
you are on the right track , john .
so the question is how can we choose our emotional state independent of our observed reality ?
edie may felt elated to see him catch on to their way of thinking , the answer lies in the fact that not reality itself triggers the emotions within you but only what you think or do not think about reality is what prompts the emotional response .
have you ever noticed , that two people in the exact same situation can think and feel about it in a completely opposite way ?
i have seen that , taylor agreed .
our thoughts are not cast upon us by an ever present reality but are chosen by us in every moment of time .
this is what it means when people say , the power is in the now .
it is not in what you can do now , but in what you will think now , and that is your choice .
edie mays voice had changed with those last words from her usual gentle dark timbre to a very distinct almost forceful expression .
there was no doubt left in her listener that the words she spoke were drawn from a place of great wisdom and clarity .
her eyes had briefly rolled back and reappeared with a strangely different focus as if they could see right through taylor .
i am certain that right now i cant comprehend half of what you are saying , taylor worded his response carefully , but i can feel the truth in it .
part of me wants to go back to not knowing what i just heard and another part of me wants to jump and scream and race forward and pry from you everything you can tell me about this .
i think it will take some time for all of this to sink in and to get an idea of where to go from here .
he leaned back into his pillows and shook his head as if to get an unwanted image out of his mind while he looked edie may deep into her eyes .
am i going insane or is there really something more than just edie may sitting in front of me ?
there is always more in front of you than meets the eye .
once you learn to see with your heart as much as you see with your eyes you will know what i mean , edie may side stepped a direct answer to taylors question , have you ever heard the phrase , when the student is ready the teacher will appear . ?
this always goes both ways .
they both sat quietly for what seemed a long time but really only was the span of a few deep breaths .
edie mays facial expression softened to her natural etheric beauty while she steadied her breathing into a relaxed rhythm .
taylors mind was racing in untold different directions at the same time until he suddenly asked in a moment of clarity , what about the sixty eight seconds ?
what about my plane crash ?
most of all , what about my legs ?
he looked at edie may with a mixture of challenging her and hoping for answers .
always the tough questions first , right ?
edie may smiled at him , i see you are a fighter so lets grab the bull by the horns .
they both had to laugh at that image .
sixty eight seconds goes back to abrahams original teachings , edie may hoped the mentioning of that name would this time not disrupt their productive proceedings .
oh , him again , taylor joked , im not sure how to feel about this part of your story yet , he admitted .
well , i am not sure if i should tell you this , edie may thought the time was right to push the issue a little further , but i believe you just had a brief conversation with them .
i did ?
taylor asked , what do you mean by with them ?
you see , john , edie may was ecstatic that taylor did not pull away from her like he did the last time , abraham is not a person per se , but a family of non physical beings .
teachers connected to the infinite wisdom of the universe .
they are inspiration , joy and most of all love .
they are what we are in our innermost core .
they are called forth through our asking , ready and willing and eager to shine the light of clarity onto a sometimes confusing life experience .
they have answered your questions many times before in your life in the most inventive ways imaginable .
just that now you know their name .
taylor didnt know if this was too much or too little information but he was burning to get some answers either way .
so , about those sixty eight seconds ?
he pulled them back to his question .
right , edie may complied , your thoughts attract other thoughts with a similar vibration .
when you think of something and you hold that thought for just seventeen seconds , law of attraction will bring other thoughts into your reach that have a similar vibration .
if you focus on the same thought for sixty eight seconds without introducing any opposing ideas you will have shifted your point of attraction significantly enough to set a correlating manifestation into motion .
if you did this for anything you wanted and you never thought about it again , it must manifest in your experience .
it is law .
the crux in the matter is that when you want something that you dont have or you experience something that you dont want it is ever so much easier to focus on the lack of the desired circumstance than on the desire itself .
which of course follows the same principle and brings the manifestation of the undesired reality over and over again .
that is an intriguing theory , taylor tried to keep his options open , so what if i am against something and i focus on removing it from my experience or eradicating it altogether ?
there is no such thing as exclusion in an attraction based universe , edie may stated , if you have set your mind on fighting against something , this very thing is part of your vibration and will be attracted into your reality by the law of attraction .
wow , taylor was quite impressed by the simplicity of her reasoning , how do i know what i can change and what is someone elses reality that i just stumbled into ?
you create your own reality , all of it , edie may was as blunt as the truth can be , whatever circumstance you live came into existence by the power of your own thoughts .
no one else can create in your reality .
what you think and therefore feel and what manifests is always a vibrational match , no exception .
there it was , plain and simple , the most provocative idea ever cast upon a human mind .
no one else to blame anymore , now that didnt sound right at all .
are you saying that i myself created the lightning strike that crashed my plane and sent me back here ?
taylor wasnt too amused at that suggestion .
not exactly , john , edie may didnt back off the subject but tried to diffuse the building tension , but think about it , you came here with a mission to find a better food source for the people of your region , right ?
taylor nodded with clenched teeth .
your mission was completed the moment you set foot into flugerton , right ?
taylor looked at her with a quizzical expression .
well , the others in your team were more than capable to finish what you had started .
from then on you were just their chauffeur .
i dont like the sound of it but you could see it that way , taylor conceded .
you felt obligated to bring them back home , being the only pilot in the party , but a big part of you didnt really want to leave from here , right ?
the point she was driving at suddenly became very obvious .
are you telling me i crashed my plane , almost killing four people and loosing the dna data just to hang around here longer ?
thats a bit too much to swallow , you know ?
taylor did not like where this was headed .
all i am saying is , you sent your friends on their way , none of them got harmed , the dna data is safe to be utilized according to your intentions and you are back getting answers to questions that have haunted you for all your life .
not too bad creating for someone who didnt know what you know now .
wouldnt you agree ?
edie may smiled at taylor and gave him time to fight out the struggle that raged within him .
but what about my legs ?
he almost whispered .
edie may and taylor were zapped out of their contemplation by a giggly cheery voice from the door .
you did that so you wouldnt try to run away again and we have some time to torture you a little more , lilly anns timing was impeccable as ever .
are you done with your scientific merry go round thinklings that dump you off at the same place where you got on anyway ?
edie may and taylor both erupted in relieved laughter .
their conversation really began to weigh heavy on their mood and taylor needed some time to assimilate the information flood that had almost drowned him more than once .
i have something for you to look at , john , lilly ann said with a glance at edie may .
she pulled a huge folder from a shelf at the back of the room .
the thick brown leather cover was intricately carved all over with mementos of childhood and play .
it was well worn from the touch of countless loving hands and the stitching on the borders had been mended many times with threads of various bright colors .
a single word adorned the center on the front , applied with gold leaf in the broad strokes of a childs handwriting .
lilly ann cradled the book in her arms and brought it to taylors bed .
she stroked the cover tenderly a few times before she gently laid it on his legs .
she opened it to the first page and said with as much love as any human voice can muster , this is my best friend .
say hi to abrahamster .
chapter 9 abrahamster after the long spell of mind boggling and reality bending ideas taylor had been confronted with in the past few hours , it took him a few seconds to switch gears and open his mind to lilly anns special friend .
the first page in the folder contained a simple pencil and water color drawing of a curious looking furry hamster , standing on his hind legs with a big smile and big eyes , waving at the onlooker .
the caption read , hi !
im abrahamster .
come play with me .
lets think silly together .
im the star of many pages in this book .
looking back and forth between that page and lilly anns face , radiant from unbridled enthusiasm , he suddenly understood where she was coming from .
this drawing and the message behind it revealed more about lilly anns spirit and personality than a lifetime of talking to her could ever have .
she had shown him her greatest treasure , bared her soul and sat there beaming at him with the innocence of a child .
if he hadnt known it before , right then and there taylor knew that he had fallen for her .
in his eyes , at that moment , she was the most beautiful and wonderful woman in the world .
he also knew in his heart what a personal challenge it would be for him to get up to speed with her energy and purity and , as much as he was surprised that the word popped into his mind , with her vibration .
unable to say a word he lingered for a moment longer , looking at that first picture and with a tear filled sigh he turned the page .
the second page showed a much more developed drawing of the same cartoon character .
this time he was wearing a blue t shirt with 17 sec .
printed on it and announced in big letters , nothing is more important than that i feel good !
no surprises there .
so this little fellow put that tag line into your mind , taylor teased lilly ann , abrahamster , that wouldnt have anything to do with our nonphysical friend abraham , would it ?
he winked at edie may .
the way i see it , lilly ann explained eagerly , abrahamster is a very smart hamster who just wants to feel good .
he has an inner hamster that guides him and he learned a whole lot from studying the abraham books and recordings .
abrahamster knows everything about law of attraction and feeling good and guiding your thoughts and he tells us in his own way so the nonscientists among us can understand it too .
most of all he wants to have fun and be silly and play and bask in the good feeling moment and appreciate and he loves everything .
taylor was wondering if lilly ann would ever stop the sentence and breathe again .
look !
she continued after a deep breath frantically turning pages and searching for her favorite pictures , here he basks in his hammock until he is a bask it case .
and here he shows us to fork our thoughts in the good feeling direction so we dont get stuck in yuma and here he pats his cat until he is in alignment and here ... whoa , taylor interrupted her , what is alignment and why is basking and appreciating so important to him ?
you see the thing is , lilly ann was on a roll , when abrahamster wants something his inner hamster that is non fizzical wants the same thing too and does everything in his power , and that is a lot , to bring it to him .
but when abrahamster feels bad about not having it already , his inner hamster can not bring him the stuff cause law of attraction only brings him more of the not having bad feeling reality things .
when he feels good or appreciates or basks or loves he is in alignment with his inner hamster thinklings and law of attraction brings everything to him that he wants .
cool , huh ?
i am not sure i follow you , taylor felt like a fish out of water .
its called emotional guidance system , lilly ann announced importantly , the way you feel indicates how close what you think is to what you want .
your inner geronimo knows what you want , even if you dont really know it .
he knows that , when you think something other than about the stuff that you want , you will not get it and you will get stuff that you dont want instead .
because your inner geronimo does not want that for you , he sends you yucky feeling emotion vibes , so that you know that something is not right and you can change it .
isnt that great ?
lilly ann was searching her brain for an easier way to make her point .
her face lit up as she remembered the most basic truth she had come to believe from before she could remember .
she lifted her index finger to signal that she had something really important and significant to say .
she looked at edie may and then at taylor and said with unwavering conviction , good feels good , and bad feels bad .
she pointed at the appropriate hamster drawing .
she waited for a sign of comprehension from taylor , get it ?
i guess , he answered somewhat skeptical , but when i feel bad about something i cant just switch and feel good about it .
i would be lying to myself .
thats right , lilly ann conceded just for a second , but you always can reach for a better feeling thought .
she pulled another page out of the stack .
look here , she pointed at abrahamster balancing on the nose of a giraffe , he is reaching for what feels better .
you cant jump from feeling all yucky about something to blissful sky pie feelings .
if you try you probably land in the bushes .
but you can find something that feels a little better and stay there for a while and then find something that feels a little better and stay there for a while and soon you are in a not so bad feeling place and you can still find a thought that feels a little better .
i guess you get the picture .
this sounds like a lot of work , taylor remarked .
more work than flying hundreds of miles and walk two days and chase cows around for two weeks and fly back and ...
i think i get what you mean , taylor interrupted .
and if you really can not find any better feeling thought about some reality thing that really bites you , you can always think about something else , something pleasant that you remember or something that you want to have , she added softly .
like what ?
taylor asked .
well , for example , when you feel bad about your legs and you cant find anything good to think about that , you could just think about , there was a dramatic pause , meeeeee .
her thirty two tooth smile would have made every dentist blush .
i guess i could do that , taylor laughed .
for the first time in his life he was consciously aware of the change in his emotional state caused simply by focusing on a different subject .
it was an interesting observation to say the least .
taylor continued to look at the many pages and drawings in the folder .
they sat there for half an hour and just looked at pictures and read the captions out loud .
one picture had taylor look up and ask , i have seen this somewhere before .
all these figures stacked on top of each other .
it looks like a native american totem pole , just funnier .
dont you have one down the street from your grandpas place ?
thats a totemotional pole , lilly ann lectured , they are all over the place .
remember the two guys who brought you here after your fall , jack and joe jack ?
thats what they do .
they carve totemotional poles and put them up all around the valley .
whats the significance of the totemotional pole ?
taylor had the impression that if he understood the abrahamster story better , he might start to understand what was going on in the minds of people around here , most notably lilly anns .
the totemotional pole is a symbol of the emotional scale , lilly ann started to explain but looked a bit unsure , edie may , can you help me out , i havent been angry or something like that since i saw my cat eat a tweety bird when i was four .
i thought you were doing just fine , dear , edie may shrugged but she obliged , as lilly ann explained very skillfully before , humans tend to stay on a certain emotional range in regard to any given issue that they are involved in .
very often they will maintain the same vibration for a long time since law of attraction brings to them events and manifestations that are in harmony with their vibrational state , so they start to believe that this is just the way it will always be .
to help us guide ourselves out of unpleasant emotions and correlating circumstances into a better feeling emotional state and a more desirable life experience abraham taught us about the emotional scale .
of course there is a great variety and variation in describing emotions so we have to simplify a little .
on the one hand of the scale you have the good feeling vibrations like love , appreciation , bliss , joy or happiness and on the other end you have fear and depression .
another way to describe it would be the feeling of freedom and self empowerment on one end , and bondage or powerlessness on the other .
do you follow so far , john ?
edie may asked .
taylor just gave her a confirming nod , curious where this exercise was leading .
for a deliberate creator , as we established before , edie may continued , emotions are the guiding light to his desired outcome .
if he feels good he knows his thoughts are moving him towards something that will feel good when he gets there , if he feels bad , not so much .
if he finds himself in a situation that evokes strong negative feelings in him , he does not have immediate access to a really good feeling thought about that issue .
if you are depressed about something and a friend comes by and tells you to cheer up otherwise you will create something unpleasant , you will most likely not be able to follow his advise and probably tell him to get lost .
been there , done that , taylor agreed , on both ends of it , he added laughing .
good , so you know what this is all about , edie may moved on , if you want to get from point a to point b it helps to have milestone markers along the way , otherwise you could get lost and end up right where you started .
if you are riddled with depression or fear , you might want to get angry at someone or something or wish revenge on someone else .
that feels better , at least now you can breath .
when you have stabilized yourself in anger you might find the softer thought of blame or even worry or doubt .
once you feel secure there you might reach for a thought of frustration or pessimism .
then the road to contentment or even hopefulness isnt very far .
once you feel hopeful it can be a swift ride to positive expectation , enthusiasm and even joy .
remember , all of this is work done in your thoughts .
no action required or allowed yet .
once you vibrate where it feels good any action you take will be an inspired one and lead you to whatever result you want .
i think i understand , taylor nodded , so what about the poles ?
oh , just look at the picture , lilly ann jumped right in , see , here on the bottom abrahamster is depressed and doesnt wan na live like that anymore .
they all look so cute i could eat them up .
the next one up is really angry , you dont want to mess with him right now .
this one is just frustrated and then he is hopeful and then he stands on his head because he thinks he can do everything .
all the way up he just wants to relax and go with the flow and not struggle against anything , he knows that life is supposed to be fun and ease .
he looks so happy , dont you think ?
it is a wonderful symbol of the most powerful tool we have to be successful as deliberate creators , edie may added , we call it moving up the emotional guidance scale .
who did all these drawings ?
taylor asked while turning to another page , i saw a signature l. f. on many of them .
is that for lilly ann f. ?
i did many of the drawings , lilly ann confirmed , but they are not really mine .
i copied most of them out of the lilly book .
l. f. stands for lilly fluger .
she is the one who gave birth to abrahamster and all his friends many , many years ago .
lilly fluger was an avid student of abraham and even met them on a few occasions , edie may explained , she was also a master teacher in her own right with the ability to capture the essence of abrahams teachings in drawings and cartoons .
many people find it easier and definitely a lot more fun to hone their thought working skills by studying lilly flugers cartoons than to read or listen to abraham sessions .
i dont care about the grownup problem this and problem that sermons of abraham .
ive heard them all .
that is so boring , but i love to look at abrahamster and his friends all day long and i turned out just fine , right ?
lilly ann looked at both of them for confirmation .
look , this is abraram , she pointed out another character on one of the pages , he is abrahamsters best friend and he is always on a rampage of appreciation .
i love grass .
i love the hills .
i love ewes .
and on and on he goes .
two , four , six , eight , who do we appreciate ?
i really learned a lot from him .
i get all fuzzy and warm good feelings when i go on a rampage of appreciation myself .
it feels so good , sometimes i dont even want to stop ever anymore at all .
taylor was getting really curious now .
lilly fluger as in flugerton , i assume ?
he tried to put one and one together , you said abraham taught at the end of the twentieth century , that makes these documents more than three hundred years old .
how did you find them ?
and why ?
who cares , lilly ann said , edie may can show you the lilly book one day , then you can see for yourself .
now lets play something fun .
what do you want to play , dear ?
edie may knew the tone of voice she had just heard from lilly ann .
she might not have found the most polite way to go about it but she had something in mind that demanded a change of pace from all of them .
i think abrahamster can help john fix his legs so he can run and jump and dance with us , lilly ann dropped a bomb on them .
if there is a game for that , taylor was still a bit skeptical , then i would play it as long as it takes to work .
whats the name of that game ?
it is called wouldnt it be nice if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday game , lilly ann made it up as they went along .
that is a very long title for a game , edie may teased .
there is nothing i can do about that , lilly ann stated , thats what its called .
how do we play ?
taylor enjoyed being the center of lilly anns creative fireworks .
we take turns to say , if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday , right now we would ... and then we think up something fun we would do today if abrahamster had fixed your legs yesterday .
we can invite other people to play too if we run out of ideas .
it is a very long game , she added importantly .
that does sound like a fun game , taylor said , although i dont really see how it could heal my legs .
ill be still here with my legs not working .
but that is exactly the point , lilly ann explained excitedly , we will be here playing with you and you will try to focus on the fun things we all dream up and in no time you will not even remember that there once was something wrong with your legs .
what a wonderful idea , lilly ann , edie may agreed , it is no wonder that your games are famous all over the valley .
im curious already who gets a whiff of it first and stops by to join in .
lets start , lilly ann shouted , i go first .
if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday , she started reciting the words as if it was a prayer , as in some sense it probably was , right now we would sit at the banks of the river on that big log that fell over last summer and reaches half way across , remember ?
we would try to stretch out legs so our toes get all sprayed with water .
and we would stare to see the trout standing behind the rocks .
wed take off our shoes and socks and roll up our pant legs .
and every time one of the bigger waves splashed all over our feet and calves wed squeal like little piglets because the water is still so cold from the melting snow .
thats what we would do right now if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday .
lilly ann was glowing from the excitement of the adventure in her head .
wow , that was fun , she exclaimed , my feet are getting cold , she laughed and rubbed her toes , your turn edie may .
if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday , edie may was aware of the delicate balance in these words and followed lilly anns instructions to a t , right now we would hike up into the woods and look for the tallest oak trees with the most beautiful mistletoe at the top of their crowns .
we would take off our shoes and socks , and start climbing those holy trees with our bare feet .
wed feel for places to hook in with our fingers and toes to pull ourselves up from branch to branch until we are so high up in the crown that we can not even see the ground anymore and if wed just stretch our necks a little further we can pop our heads out into the sky and enjoy an enchanted view over the entire valley .
we would carefully cut some of the mistletoe for decorating the tavern tonight to everyones delight .
thats what we would do right now if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday .
yes , yes , wonderful , lilly ann praised edie mays effort , i can feel the sticky resin on my feet and they are all red and hot from the scratchy bark , can you feel it too john ?
what was he supposed to say at the display of such unadulterated joy and affection ?
as much as the thought of his condition pained him , he was not going to ruin this game for her .
i do remember how that felt , he did the best he could with a smile .
a visitor announced himself with a gentle rap at the door and dissolved the awkward moment .
if that isnt a bunch of people sitting around , playing a fun game and not having the courtesy to invite old grandpa , fritz neuwirt complained laughingly , i brought sandwiches and apple cider .
that is , if you let me join the game of course .
what are we playing ?
he pulled a rocking chair next to the bed while lilly ann explained her game invention .
ah , abrahamster , he said with his best grandpa tells bedtime stories voice , the little fella has all kinds of tricks up his sleeve .
can i go next ?
taylor started to feel a little under siege with all the attention he was getting and the activity that filled his room with life .
on the other hand , the entire lack of doubt in the effectiveness and sensibility of making up stories to effect the bodily condition of another intrigued him .
he couldnt help but to get curious where all of this would lead them .
all right , here i go , fritz announced to get everyones attention , if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday , right now we would put on our lederhosen , you know the old deer leather pants i brought from austria , and we would dance schuachplattler .
we would ask hannah to bring her accordion and play the wildest and funniest sounding alpine traditionals .
i would try to remember the words to some of them and teach you to sing with me .
then wed line up in a circle and id show you how we danced in the old country .
wed jump in the air and slap our thighs with our hands and wed jump in the air again and yelp and yodel and wed jump in the air again and wed slap the bottom of our feet with our hands .
and on and on wed go .
this makes great rhythmic noises and lets everyone in the valley know , that we were having fun .
thats what we would do right now if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday .
you could see that the old man was exhausted but glowing with energy just from cooking up these wonderful pictures in his mind .
while he was telling the story the front door had opened and closed a few times and more visitors had poured into the small room .
everyone clapped and cheered when fritz had finished his story .
that was so neat , papa , lilly ann was over the moon , i could just hear the claps and yells and the music .
my hands and feet are pulsing hot from the slaps and wild dancing .
soon it was standing room only and some of the people who had just arrived yelled over the crowd to partake .
if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday , right now we would have a race against the goats up the steep hill in the east valley .
id bet that the goats would be faster .
thats what we would do right now if abrahamster had fixed johns legs yesterday .
everybody laughed and now the jokesters got brave enough to have their say .
if abrahamster had fixed geronimos legs yesterday , tonight we would lift him up on our shoulders and see if he can climb up to lilly anns bedroom window .
thats what we would do tonight if abrahamster had fixed geronimos legs yesterday .
taylor looked at lilly ann but she just laughed and did not avert her eyes .
embarrassment is a foreign planet to a pure soul .
if abrahamster had fixed geronimos legs yesterday , the words came slowly and deliberately from a three year old girl who had squeezed herself past the older visitors .
she stood in front of the bed with her arms propped up on her sides , right now i would climb up on his knees and ask him to sing with me a horsie riding song .
and when we were finished id give him a big kiss .
thats what we would do right now if abrahamster had fixed geronimos legs yesterday .
she blew a noisy wet kiss on taylors cheek , threw her arms up in the air , giggled wildly and galloped out of the room .
the room was quiet for a moment .
everyone knew , when the children come , miracles start to happen .
lilly ann secretly wiped away a tear from her eyes .
she was besides herself with joy that her intuition had led her in a direction that her mind would never have thought of .
thank you , leila , she whispered without anyone else taking notice .
no one but taylor , that is .
he had many hours before stopped worrying about his legs .
he was swept away by the unconditional support that the community poured over him .
so many wanted to have a turn in the game .
food and drink of all sorts was appearing out of nowhere in front of him .
everybody seemed to have the time of their lives , and all on his behalf .
each person started and ended their contribution with the magical phrases that lilly ann had composed .
it was getting late and lilly ann was signaling that it was time to call it a day and maybe continue another time .
people stood up from the floor and from chairs and started to shuffle out of the room .
wait , said taylor , if abrahamster had fixed my legs yesterday , right now i would run and dance and climb and play with all of you and id be the happiest man in the world , and i would not even know that i would have missed the most magical day i ever had the pleasure and joy of living .
now i wouldnt mind if abrahamster would help fix my legs yesterday from tomorrow .
thank you so much .
thank you for being such a good sport , one of the visitors replied , this was the most unusual fun we had in a long time .
the little house grew quiet .
even fritz and edie may had said their goodnight with the promise to be back the next day .
i am going to bed too , are you going to be all right ?
lilly ann asked through the door on her way upstairs to her bedroom .
ill be o.k. , said taylor , thank you for everything , and give leila my thanks too , please .
will do , lilly ann chirped and left the room .
a few hours later that night a scream of pain and surprise shattered the silence of the dark village .
a shorter one followed the first long scream , not quite as pain filled but even more surprised at the sensation .
what followed was laughter , uncontrollable laughter and yelps of joy and groans of pain .
the lights came on upstairs in lilly anns house as they did in many houses nearby .
lilly ann rushed down the stairs to find taylor sitting up in his bed rubbing his legs and feet frantically .
i can feel them , he yelled , i can feel the sensations that your stories had put in my head all at once .
it hurts .
its wonderful .
i can feel them .
he couldnt get the words out fast enough .
first i thought it was just a bad dream , but then i opened my eyes and i saw your cat , mr. big , lick my toes and i was feeling it .
it hurt and it was like fire and like ice in the next moment .
i can feel my feet , he yelled again .
lilly ann sat on the side of the bed and pulled taylors feet into her lap .
she put her hands firmly on them .
john , listen to me , she said emphatically , focus on my hands .
these feelings are real .
release all the other sensations that rush through your mind .
just feel my hands .
can you feel them ?
i can feel them , he answered a bit surprised , they are warm and soft .
tears were streaming down his face , thank you so much , he whispered .
no need to thank me , she replied quietly .
you are one of us now .
welcome to flugerton .
two houses down the street kim wong climbed out of his bed and stepped up to the bedroom window to see what the racket was all about .
what is going on out there ?
he asked more to himself than anyone else .
his wifes sleepy voice came from their bed , john has got his legs back , thats got ta hurt for a while .
come back to bed now and close the window .
there was not the slightest hint of surprise in her voice .
chapter 10 edie , keeper of the lilly book coffee next morning was served in the kitchen .
taylor and lilly ann had slept in after a long night of getting taylors sensational overload to subside and sorting out which of the confusing nerve signals in his legs related to actual sensations and which were a residue of the energy game work they had practiced the day before .
taylor was the first one to awake in the house .
what a pleasant surprise that a rough tongue licking his toes was the first sensation of the new day .
mr. big had taken a liking to his feet and was just about to start nibbling at them when taylor opened his eyes .
sensing that the jig was up mr. big disappeared like a black and white flash .
taylor pulled back the bed covers to make sure that in reality there were not millions of ants crawling all over his legs .
he was relieved to find that his sensation was but the lingering effect of his newly rediscovered sensory stream coming from his lower body .
suddenly it occurred to him that if he could feel his legs , he should be able to move them too .
and so he tried and it worked .
at first he was able to move his big toe , mr. bigs favorite .
when he tried to stretch or bend his ankles there was movement but the feedback he got seemed too slow and unreliable at first .
he lacked the control , for his movements to be of any value for him other than that of simple entertainment .
to his own surprise , taylor spent over an hour playing with the jerky reaction of his legs without getting frustrated or even compelled to try harder .
he just enjoyed the fact that his ability was slowly coming back to him , so lying on his back he painted odd shapes with his toes into the air .
watcha doing there ?
lilly anns voice came from the door that had opened silently .
taylor beamed at her with a mixture of pride over his newfound ability to move his legs and a bit of embarrassment over his display of obvious self enjoyment .
can i play too ?
lilly ann added and laid flat on her back on the floor and started to imitate taylors movements .
no , taylor joked , this game is for fallen pilots only .
you have to jump out of an airplane first before you get a license to play .
thats no fair , lilly ann complained , how am i supposed to get an airplane right now to jump out of ?
she got up from the floor ceremoniously .
did anyone ever tell you that you are a ham ?
taylor laughed .
no , but speaking of ham , i am hungry lets go get breakfast .
are you coming ?
she walked out of the room fully expecting that taylor would follow her .
not so fast , taylor shouted after her , you could let me borrow a bathrobe or something and give me a hand .
then ill try to make it to the kitchen .
and so they did .
lilly ann pulled a beautiful aquamarine and cream colored robe from a chest of drawers .
it was sewn from a fabric woven in the intricate patterns that resembled a magnified view of geometric fractals called a mandelbrot set .
my mom made this for my dad when they just got married , lilly ann explained , she creates artwork from the magic of numbers .
maybe you understand it better than i do .
isnt this neat ?
she held out the robe for him .
taylor took a closer look of the fabric .
the detail is breathtaking , he agreed , it looks as if the threads were split up in the middle of the shapes to produce even greater detail .
i cant wait to meet your mother to talk math with her .
well , right now we have to get you out of this bed first , lilly ann sidestepped the topic , put on the robe .
ill close my eyes and promise not to peek .
she held her hands in front of her eyes and turned her back to taylor .
he had to laugh because he did not forgotten that it was lilly ann and edie may who had undressed him when he first arrived at her house , unconscious after the accident .
it is safe to look now , he teased her after he had put on the robe .
try to bend your knees and get your legs over the edge of the bed , lilly ann advised , once you feel the floor under your feet everything else is going to come back to you .
she sat next to taylor on the bed and watched his efforts to bend his knees .
try to remember what it feels like to move your legs .
dont try to make it happen , she coached , there is no rush youll run soon enough after you start walking .
she tried a different angle , whats it like to lift your leg to climb into an airplane ?
the result was immediate .
taylors right knee came up like a reflex .
whoa , he laughed , slow down the horses .
he stretched out the right knee and the left had the same reaction .
he continued to stretch and bend his legs for a few minutes until his movements were more coordinated and smooth .
he sat up and looked at lilly ann with one eyebrow raised .
with one fluid deliberate movement he sat up and swung his legs out of the bed where his feet landed on the floor with a loud thump .
ouch , that hurt , he said surprised , but its good to feel the ground under my feet .
you think you are strong enough to help me get up ?
well , jack and joe jack went back out to the woods so you will have to settle for me for right now .
lilly ann grabbed his right arm and stood up , ready ?
it took taylor three tries to lift his body from the bed and a few more to steady himself long enough on his feet to find his balance .
lilly ann lightly held on to his arm never putting any real force onto it .
he finally stood there panting from the concentrated effort .
this is good , he said in between small laughs , now what ?
now we walk , lilly ann said confidently .
the expression baby steps never had a more literal meaning .
small slow shuffles with slight hesitation put distance between him and the safety of the nearby bed .
whenever the thought of falling crept into his mind he stopped all movement , felt for the support that lilly anns hold gave him and steadied his focus .
every step he took , his muscles remembered more and more of the complex interplay that it takes for the simple pleasure of walking .
if time is a matter of perception so is distance it seemed .
the longest walk of his life took john taylor across the twenty five paces from the room that was his world since his fall to the kitchen that promised freedom and breakfast .
eighteen minutes and thirty five seconds later he was the happiest man in the world sitting at the kitchen table a bit out of breath , watching lilly ann go through the magic ritual of brewing fresh espresso coffee .
for the first time taylor had the opportunity to have a look around the kitchen in this most unusual house which was so fitting to his gracious host .
he more and more got the impression of sitting inside a gingerbread house right out of the fairy tales he had heard as a child .
the huge wood fired stove gleamed with polished steel hardware and deep blue enamel lacquered panels and doors .
the cupboards all around the walls were filled with an eclectic collection of mugs and pots and glasses of all imaginable forms and colors .
there were little paintings and drawings of abrahamster and his friends on every wall and on every counter .
the windows were made of semi translucent glass that looked like it was sugar coated and they were draped with fabrics that were woven in the same intricate patterns as the robe taylor was wearing .
taylors gaze circled back to the fascinating coffee preparation exhibition on a counter near the stove .
what are we going to do when we run out of coffee ?
he asked .
hm , the thought never crossed my mind , lilly ann answered surprised .
she looked at him with that curious smile as if she was trying to figure out how his mind worked .
why would you want to think about an empty coffee can when you have a full one right in front of you ?
she asked him back .
there was no arguing with that kind of logic .
taylor had to accept once more , that feeling good right then and there was much more important to lilly ann than contemplating the solution to a problem that might or might not arise in the future .
at least she was consistent about that .
the gentle rap at the door was unmistakably that of edie may .
she balanced a large carton box on her arms and sampled the aroma in the kitchen when she entered .
i see you are keeping up your coffee ritual , she said not even flinching when she saw taylor sitting at the kitchen table , yesterday i remembered that i saw a box with a similar label like your coffee can in my storage shed a long time ago .
i went looking for it and there it was on the top shelf .
there are twelve more cans of the same coffee in there that you like so much .
you are more than welcome to it , if you want it .
lilly ann turned to taylor , see ?
he would never try to bring up running out of coffee again .
lilly ann accepted the precious cargo from edie may , thank you so much , this is wonderful !
come , sit down , have breakfast with us .
so john , edie may acknowledged taylors newfound mobility , what are you doing up and about without adult supervision .
i heard you woke up half the town last night .
her humor was refreshing as ever .
i suppose i did , sorry bout that , taylor apologized , mr. big licked my toe and suddenly i felt a thousand things in my legs at the same time .
it was a little overwhelming .
i can imagine that , edie may nodded .
sorry that i cant stay for breakfast .
i have an appointment with a number of very curious youngsters at the lilly book , i wouldnt want to keep them waiting .
would you mind if i had a look at the book some time ?
taylor asked .
any time , john , edie may answered watching for lilly anns reaction , ill be there all day today .
i am sure lilly ann would love to drive you .
you think you are strong enough for that ?
i guess so , they both answered at the same time and burst into laughter .
oh boy , edie may rolled her eyes and retreated out of the kitchen .
she heard more infectious laughing on her way out of the house .
this was going to be interesting , to say the least .
later in the morning a very slow short walk from the house to the curb , a very swift short ride in lilly anns peace mobile and another short but just as slow walk from the curb onto a park like property brought taylor and lilly ann to the door of an imposing structure made entirely of pine logs .
in front of the building stood the tallest totemotional pole taylor had seen so far .
the carved and painted log reached at least two hundred feet high and was adorned with a collection of additional characters , which taylor remembered from lilly anns abrahamster book .
see , lilly ann pointed at the hamsters on the pole counting from bottom to top , this is despo , blamie , frusty , mabes , abrahamster standing on his hands , gabe , abby and gabby .
they are doing a very good job showing their best vibe faces from yucky to hamster euphoria , dont you think ?
taylor could sense that this place was in some way the cultural center of flugerton , maybe of the whole area .
they climbed the few stairs to a tall double door , which was inlaid in dark red hardwood with the words ask , and it is given .
the simple yet powerful vibration that resonated with these words was not lost on taylor .
his anticipation was high when lilly ann pushed the door open and they found themselves engulfed in a stream of children and young adolescents going back and forth between the various rooms of the large building .
they obviously had entered a world of learning and teaching .
is this a school ?
taylor asked .
this is sudbury , lilly ann clarified , most of our youngsters come here to exchange questions and find answers .
its mostly about the questions though .
a group of children , maybe four or five years of age had spotted taylor .
one of them started yelling , its geronimo !
its geronimo !
within seconds they were surrounded by a wild cluster of little arms and hands dancing and hollering around them .
they chanted taylors new nickname over and over , giving testimony to his fame amongst the young population of flugerton .
lilly ann pulled taylor along to a milky glass door across the hall leaving his young admirers behind .
the activity level in this room was much more subdued with only an occasional opening of the door for someone walking in or out .
the book room is over there , lilly ann pointed at another glass door that led into a small study hall with tall etched glass windows .
a few study desks with wooden chairs were lined up in the middle of the room while a number of easels and tables with drawing and painting utensils lined the walls around the perimeter .
edie may looked up from her desk at the far end of the room when she heard them enter .
she waved for them to come to a monumental looking oak desk close to where she was sitting .
dim light was radiating from an out of place looking device in the middle of the desktop .
i am so glad you could make it , both of you , edie may greeted them , welcome to sudbury and to the lilly book .
her arm made a big sweeping gesture around her .
taylor got curious about the scientifically looking device on the desk .
it looked to him like an ancient data pad with external input devices and a small color screen .
its a computer , he exclaimed .
nothing gets by you , john , edie may teased him , in its time it was called a notebook computer , hence the name lilly book .
it still works , right ?
taylor could not believe to stand in front of this ancient technology in working condition .
yes , it does , edie may confirmed , it was retrofitted with solar power panels before it got here .
we never turn it off and we never try to change any of the data on it .
we only use the programs that came with it to retrieve and study the wisdom it contains .
see for yourself .
she laid her hand on a small external device that was connected to the book with a short wire .
whenever she moved her hand a data pointer on the screen moved accordingly .
edie may gently pushed one of the buttons on the pointing device , which prompted some text and images to be displayed on the screen .
taylor was not too surprised to see the now familiar figure of abrahamster in a drawing that resembled one of lilly anns .
see , thats where my drawings come from , she explained the obvious .
so , whats the story behind this computer and why is it so important to you ?
taylor saw more questions than answers arise from being confronted with this historic artifact .
yes , please , edie may , lilly ann begged like a little girl , please tell us the story of how abrahamster got here and became a big star .
all right , edie may complied , lets sit down over there on the study couch and i will tell you the story .
they made themselves comfortable and edie may began her tale .
it all began at the end of the last millennium .
the late nineteen hundreds saw a flurry of teachers and preachers who attracted large audiences , thirsty for knowledge about inner truths and the workings of their world beneath its visible surface .
many of them furthered that knowledge with their asking and listening for answers to a level never before attained by human kind .
the more people asked , the more answers came forth until one day a man by the name of jerry hicks , who had studied the teachings of his fellow man for all his life , was so filled with questions of how it all fits together and so deeply rooted in his believe that he would receive answers , that he called forth an infinitely wise and loving and patient teacher from another plane of existence who spoke through jerrys mate , the beautiful esther .
the ultimate student had found his ultimate teacher .
his name was abraham .
at the same time , a young woman , lilly fluger , was traveling the planet to find her own path and rhythm in life .
she did some asking on her own .
she read books , talked with the dead and loved life .
when abrahams teachings were made public she found answers to many of her questions within them .
while most people would have been satisfied with the answers they got to lifes most perplexing riddles this young woman brought forth her very own language to express the truth as she saw it .
one day while she was reading in a book written by abraham a little cartoon character crept onto the margins of a page and began telling the abraham teachings his own joy fun silly hamster way .
abrahamster was born .
it is unknown to us how famous abrahamster became eventually , but we know that he had many friends and admirers throughout the world in his days .
lilly fluger spent many years developing her little friends and the message that they so joyfully whispered into the worlds ears .
all of her work including the wonderful watercolor paintings and sketches and stories would eventually end up as digital reproductions in her computer for distribution on the global data networks and for safekeeping .
lilly fluger was an artist for all her life , a relentless student of light on many levels , but most of all she was a remarkable human being .
she loved animals and for long periods of her life she chose her place of residence next to the zoo .
her whole life was a celebration of lightness and enjoyment .
she made up her own language with spellings that would make any language professor crawl up the walls but made everybody else laugh and feel playful and silly .
being silly was a very big thing for lilly fluger .
she brought abrahams teachings to an entire different audience than the original texts .
her drawings and word creations opened the path of energy work to a whole new generation of seekers .
in honor of her untiring efforts to make the idea of a vibrational universe and the vibrational nature of the human existence more accessible to so many , including us , to this day we refer to her as the vibrational tuning fork of our society .
lilly fluger must have been a famous celebrity in her day , taylor concluded .
edie may chuckled amused , from what we have gathered in lilly flugers correspondence with close friends she would have been freaked out and not able to speak clearly for a week if she knew how we think and talk about her nowadays .
thats fascinating , taylor said , but how did her work end up here , and just here ?
john , you probably know better than i do the history this country and the whole world lived through at the end of the twenty first century .
it seems that people were too busy finding someone else to blame for their perceived misery and difficulties that most of the spiritual teachings were put aside or were forgotten altogether .
the most significant historic fact for us was the sudden evacuation of many rural and remote areas for political and security reasons at that time .
there were quite a number of women and men in this country who did not want to participate in the madness that had befallen the masses , so some of these people followed an impulse , climbed into their cars , trucks or vans and headed in a central direction from all corners of the country .
not knowing why and how , they would rendezvous within a short period of time in the ozark mountains in arkansas .
many put up camp and stayed to see where all of this was heading .
more and more seekers joined them and the asking for rhyme or reason of this gathering grew daily .
all kinds of ideas where pondered and given up again because none of them had any desire to rejoin the nightmare they just had escaped from .
their numbers grew daily and so did the tension and anticipation .
one late summer day , an even then ancient vehicle , slowly made its way over the mountain passes and stopped right in the middle of the main camp site .
a beautiful woman of young age jumped out of the van threw her arms up into the air and screamed for everyone to hear , what is the most important thing ?
edie may looked at lilly ann with a smile and then at taylor .
i bet you know the answer to that question even though you might not believe it yet , right john ?
the most important thing is that i feel good , taylor recited like an a student , i still dont really know what it means but it feels good just to say it .
that is a good start , john .
anyway , where was i ?
after meeting many perplexed faces and hearing a few half hearted attempts to answer she indeed enlightened them with johns answer , the most important thing is that i feel good .
none of them had ever heard of abraham or of his teachings but all of them were students and teachers at the same time , ready and eager to explore a new vantage point to life .
the girl opened the cargo doors of her van and amidst a frightening chaos of her belongings a computer rested on a camping table .
she propped up the solar panel on the roof of her van and the notebook came to life .
the first thing that appeared on the screen was a drawing of a curious little cartoon hamster announcing , hi , im abrahamster and below it there were two more drawings stating , good feels good and , bad feels bad .
the last one showed the little fellow sitting in pure delight , sharing with the onlookers , i am delight feelings of fun loving appreciating happy play grooviness .
im choosing my own vibes !
though none of the people there understood right away what they were looking at , they felt in their hearts that this must have been the reason for them to migrate into the mountains .
the computer , of course , was the old laptop of lilly fluger that was refurbished and updated many times by owners who cherished the precious content within it .
the woman with the van had traveled all the way from southern california to arkansas .
her name was edie , she was the first keeper of the lilly book in flugerton .
does your name , edie may , have any relation to this woman ?
taylor asked .
ever since the days when edie started to teach her fellow campers about the secrets of abrahamster , the ones who wanted to dedicate their lives to the study and exploration of the lilly book would take on edie as prefix to their name , edie may explained , it isnt a formal title but more of a reverence to the great gift edie had brought to us such a long time ago .
thankle you so much edie may , lilly ann clapped her hands , i can not hear that story often enough .
edie may lets me sit in at the classes when she tells young students for the first time about the lilly book .
this is fascinating , taylor agreed , although , i have a hard time wrapping my brain around the idea that grown up educated women and men would throw all their believes and acquired philosophies over board at the sight of a few cartoon drawings .
dont get me wrong , seeing you and the way you live right in front of my eyes , abrahamster and the teachings make a lot of sense .
to jump right in without that living proof seems like a big leap of faith to me .
there had to be something more to convince those first settlers .
edie may looked at lilly anns face to see if taylors statement of doubt did in any way effect how she felt about him .
all she could read in her eyes was happy love , adoration and infinite patience .
it seemed that no cloud could ever cast a shadow on her sunny face .
you guessed right , john , edie may confirmed , come over here , ill show you what else we found in the lilly book .
taylor got up from the couch with much groaning and a gratefully accepted helping hand from lilly ann .
he carefully shuffled the few feet until they all stood in front of the computer desk .
amidst a great wealth of writings and drawings about abrahamster and his friends we found sound and video recordings of public sessions where abraham appeared with the help of esther hicks and directly addressed questions and problems that participants confronted them with .
it was hearing and seeing these powerful demonstrations of infinite intelligence , love , patience and appreciation that convinced most of the first campers to delve deeper into the philosophy of deliberate creation and law of attraction .
i have a short passage cued up for you , john .
watch and listen , and you too will understand , edie may promised .
at a push of a button on the input device the computer screen went dark just to come back to life a moment later , showing a small frame containing a fuzzy video sequence of a small room filled with people of all ages , races and genders .
the camera panned across the clapping and cheering audience and then cut to the stage where a middle aged woman stood with bare feet and smiled into the room .
hi , esther hicks said and giggled , bye .
she closed her eyes and breathed deeply a few times , her head gently bobbing back and forth as if she was nodding agreement with what was about to happen .
when she opened her eyes , she smiled and looked around the room and the stage .
her voice came back with a more focused and deliberate timbre .
the words she spoke were carefully chosen .
there was not a hint of hesitation or uncertainty in the delivery of the message .
there was no doubt abraham spoke .
the scene was obviously recorded after the meeting had come back from a break .
and are you refreshed ?
abraham started and the audience agreed , imagine standing at the edge of a river , a quickly flowing powerful river .
you have a boat with ores attached to the sides and you place the boat into the river and you start paddling upstream .
sounds silly , doesnt it ?
still , our dear friends , this is exactly what most humans , if not all of them , do .
you put your boat into the river of life and you start paddling upstream .
you get a better boat , and more skills paddling , and more muscles and most of all more determination , and the harder you paddle , the faster the river flows .
when we ask you , why dont you let go of the ores and go with the flow ?
you answer every time , it never entered my mind. , and you go on to explain to us that all the rewards and fortunes and statues and glory are reserved for those who paddle the hardest and you will work tirelessly and diligently to get some of these for yourself .
and , some of you emphasize , that you have heard that after you die there are more rewards for those who struggled the most .
the audience was quite amused by the picture that abraham was painting .
after a short pause for effect they continued .
if there is one thing that we want you to take home with you today , one thing that we want with all that we are , for you to understand , it is this .
are you ready ?
nothing that you want is upstream .
they looked around the room searching for any sign of comprehension .
nothing that you want is upstream , they repeated before the computer screen went dark .
the three of them stood in silence staring at the blank screen .
the lilly book returned to its initial screen configuration after a few seconds , breaking the spell that had befallen taylor .
this does go against everything i have ever heard before , but it is exactly what my life was like .
it is as if they were speaking specifically about me .
how can that be ?
taylor looked at edie may for answers .
dont worry about it , lilly ann chimed in , nobody understands abraham fully when they hear them for the first time .
enough of that heavy brainiac intellectual stuff for now .
let me show you my favorite spot at sudbury .
maybe then you will understand .
edie may was elated at the spirit lilly ann was showing and at her inspired ways to help taylor along the path of his discovery of their world .
she stood , quietly basking in the loving energy that radiated through the study hall as she watched the two cautiously make their way out the door .
chapter 11 the river wait here , lilly ann said to taylor once they had slowly walked a short way down the hallway , ill grab something for lunch from the kitchen .
ill be right back .
taylor did as he was told and leaned against the wall for support .
the activity around him was electrifying .
students of literally all ages were buzzing in and out of various doors , sometimes by themselves , sometimes in small groups heatedly discussing their favorite subjects .
he was most intrigued by the youngest attendants of the learning institution .
some of the girls and boys could not have been more than four or five years of age and they still roamed the hallway on their own accord and pace .
he never heard a bell calling the students to their classes nor was he able to distinguish teachers from students most of the time .
if this was indeed a school it was of a very different format to what he remembered of his days as a youngster .
lilly ann was back after a short while cheerfully dangling a paper bag in front of his face .
lets have a picnic !
she exclaimed and led taylor to a door opposite from the one through which they had entered the building earlier .
lilly ann and taylor walked out onto a meandering gravel path that led them through a magical garden of colorful flowerbeds and artistically pruned shrubs with lush green patches of grass in between .
young people writing in journals or reading books sat on wooden benches , chairs and recliners and a group of girls was intently occupied with replanting one of the beds with exotic seedlings , carefully logging the progress they made in blue fabric bound file folders .
as they reached the far end of the clearing the path disappeared into a lightly wooded area of oak and maple trees .
rays of sunlight broke through the green canopy above , painting lively patterns onto last years leaves between the trees .
a short distance into the woods a new sound mixed into the whisper of the wind , the singing of the birds and buzzing of flying insects .
they were obviously approaching a river that noisily made its way down the valley .
in front of them appeared an archway that was cut into a dense wall of hazel shrubs that still bore a few catkins .
they stepped through the man made opening and were greeted by the breathtaking sight of a narrow but fast moving river .
water was rushing between boulders and rocks spiking white fountains high into the air .
in the calm waters below the big rocks they could see large rainbow trout stand in the clear cold water waiting for prey .
a young man of maybe sixteen years of age quietly stood at the edge of the river bank skillfully casting a fishing line across the stream from a long flexible rod .
the bait at the end of the line resembled one of the flying insects they had observed while walking through the woods .
he whipped the rod back and forth a few times keeping the light line airborne while steadily extending its reach .
after three or four repetitions he let the bait soar across the water with a fluid motion of his wrist .
it landed on the water just a few feet upstream from a big beautiful fish , which immediately turned towards the supposed fly .
trout are smart though , big trout are old and old trout are even smarter .
this time the fish smelled the deceit and let the bait swim by untouched .
when the hunter becomes the hunted a game of wit and skill ensues that brings about the opportunity to learn and grow for everyone involved .
is fishing part of the curriculum here ?
taylor asked lilly ann jokingly pointing in the direction of the young man .
oh , you mean louis , she replied , he picked up a fishing rod a few weeks after his first visit to sudbury .
he has been fishing ever since .
taylor looked at her in disbelieve .
you mean all he ever does is fish ?
he does not attend any classes ?
how is he supposed to learn other basic things ?
lilly ann thought about it for a moment .
she had that look on her face that said , how do i say this so even a man from mars could understand ?
it was an interesting and eye opening exercise to have to explain the how and why and what of the only way of life she knew to a man with a very different worldview .
she learned a lot about herself in these days .
out here he learns everything he needs to learn at any given time , she started , louis knows everything there is to know about this river and the fish inhabiting it .
he knows about the insects they eat , about their mating habits , about seasons and the changes in the water .
he can predict the weather just by looking at the waves .
he read everything that was transcribed from the lilly book about fish and fishing .
i think he is doing extraordinary well .
but what about other things ?
taylor was not yet satisfied with lilly anns reasoning , what about literature and math and history and geography ?
dont you think that everybody should have at least a basic understanding about these topics ?
maybe , lilly ann replied vaguely , but for the students here there are no required studies or subjects .
for every question there will be an answer but if there is no desire to learn there will be no desire to teach .
it is very simple really .
and this works ?
taylor blurted out .
i would think so , lilly ann replied thoughtfully , our immediate ancestors have been living in this place for almost ten generations practicing these principles .
they had to carve out a way to survive and prosper in an unfamiliar environment , cut off from the rest of the world .
look around , i would say it works wonderfully , wouldnt you ?
taylor smiled and nodded his head .
you are right , he said , i have to remember that just because an idea collides with my believes doesnt mean its wrong , especially in this place , he added with a wink .
a short distance downstream taylor recognized the fallen tree that lilly ann had described so vividly in her first game story a few days earlier .
it was as magnificent and inviting as he had imagined it .
is this your tree ?
he asked , lets have our picnic there .
good idea , lilly ann agreed .
climbing over small rocks and gravel on the rivers banks was challenging for taylors newly recovered balance and foot control .
without being conscious of it , every carefully placed step brought back a treasure of muscle memory to his revitalized limbs .
his movements grew steadier and more fluid with every inch of the way .
lilly ann watched him with great satisfaction , only occasionally offering a helping hand .
the mighty tree , split in half by lightning and toppled over by the merciless storms bathed its branches in the frigid stream .
with its flat side facing the sky it provided a wide and safe platform reaching half way across the water .
busy hands had carved out footholds at its end to allow easy access to the curious visitor .
five small steps rewarded the climber with a spectacular view over the river and the rocky shore on the other side .
you wan na go first to pull me up or follow me to push ?
taylor joked .
ill go first , lilly ann decided , that way , if you loose your grip and fall you wont land on me .
she stuck out her tongue and ran up the tree trunk in three swift strides .
thanks for your concern and your confidence in me , taylor continued the teasing , ill remember that .
he stepped up to the tree and grabbed one of the unearthed roots next to the stairs .
he cautiously placed his right foot into the first step and pulled himself up in one powerful motion .
he did the same with the other steps and in no time he triumphantly joined lilly ann at the top .
throwing his arms up into the air he yelled his infamous battle scream loud enough to spook every trout in the river for weeks , geronimo !
lilly ann danced around him singing and laughing , you did it , i knew it , you did it .
they walked a few yards down the tree trunk to where the water rushed beneath their platform .
sitting down on the bare wood lilly ann opened the paper bag , which she had slung over her shoulder for their walk .
one jar of lemonade for john , and one jar of lemonade for lilly ann , she divided her bounty , one ham and cheese sandwich for john and one ham and cheese sandwich for lilly ann , she continued .
it was obvious how much she enjoyed to share her abundance with taylor and how much she wanted to allow him an insight into her life by showing him her favorite places .
taylor popped open his lemonade filled mason jar .
mmm , this is good , he said after the first sip , i wouldnt have thought that one could grow lemons up here in the mountains .
you can do a lot of things if you really want to and allow the ideas to flow that make it happen , lilly ann said between bites from her sandwich .
they sat there quietly for a few minutes munching on their lunch and staring across the water .
that river , taylor broke the silence , it gets me thinking .
what was that again with putting a boat in the river and going with the flow ?
that woman from the lilly book had a certain aura about herself as if she knew what she was talking about , but she sure lost me after the first few words .
tell me about it , lilly ann agreed , i have seen a lot of these recordings and most of the problems that people are complaining about seem so foreign to me that i cant even imagine how i could get myself into these situations .
on the other hand , if you want something you dont have or if you experience something that you dont like it doesnt matter what it is , the principle to make it right is always the same .
its simple .
really , taylor frowned , care to run that by me again ?
see , the river , lilly ann thought out loud , is like the energy that you summon when you want something .
remember , law of attraction always brings you what you focus on ?
so lets say abrahamster wants a new t shirt that reads , abe likes john !
because he has found a brand new friend .
his wish makes the energy flow to get him the t shirt .
but sometimes abrahamster puts his boat into the stream that would get him to his new shirt but all he can think about is that he does not have his new shirt and that he really wants it because he likes john so much and his old t shirt is already faded and torn in a few places and he doesnt know where to get a new shirt and he doesnt really have any hamster bucks to trade for the shirt and who knows , maybe no one ever made a shirt like the one he wants .
with every one of these thoughts he is paddling upstream against the current and he doesnt get anywhere close to his new shirt .
know what i mean ?
she looked at john waiting for a sign of understanding .
i understand what you are saying , but i am not sure where we are headed .
please go on , he asked .
well , you know that abrahamster is a very smart hamster and he knows about law of attraction and at some point , maybe when his arms are getting a bit sore form paddling he remembers that the stream will take him to whatever he wants and he pulls the ores into the boat and allows himself to be swept away to his new t shirt .
its all about wanting something to get the stream going and then going with the flow to allow it into your experience .
nothing that you want is upstream , huh ?
taylor mused .
exactly , lilly ann said eagerly , upstream is the stuff that made you want something new in the first place .
if you could go upstream , which you cant because the stream gets stronger the harder you paddle against it , you would only find more of what you do not want .
as long as you try to explain why you want to get away from the place you are standing in , or justify why you deserve something you want , you just stay where you are and get tired and sore and old and then you die and everybody else gets all the great stuff you have conjured up in your mind .
i am sure abrahamster really loves his new t shirt .
lilly ann pulled out a small piece of paper from her back pocket and handed it to taylor .
sure enough , the little cartoon fellow smiled his biggest hamster smile while sporting a brand spanking new blue t shirt that read in big white letters , abe likes john !
taylors eyes lit up with a smile .
i dont believe it , he said , when did you do this ?
oh , last night , before i went back to sleep , lilly ann replied , do you like it ?
i love it , he said enthusiastically , you are a strange cookie , did you know this ?
speaking of cookies , lilly ann was unimpressed , i almost forgot that we have a few cookies left in the bag for desert .
want some ?
sure , thank you , taylor stuck his hand out for the sweet treat , how come , when all of this going with the flow business is so easy , why isnt everyone doing it to get whatever they want ?
theres got ta be a catch somewhere .
you are right , there is , lilly ann replied while chewing on her cookie , because law of attraction is bringing you more of what you think about , you always see more stuff that shows you where you stand and not where you want to go .
she bit off another hearty chunk to gather her thoughts .
see , abrahamster has an uncle , his name is whillie .
like your brothers name ?
taylor interrupted .
yes , kinda , but this one is spelled with an h after the w , she explained , whillie is a smart , strong hamster who was always good to his family and worked hard every day to make a good living .
in his little hamster mind , though , he dreams of the really good life in a big cavern , running free all day long , playing with his kids and his wife and his friends and never having to think about earning a living anymore .
but all he can see before him is the hamster wheel that he is on which he has to turn to stay afloat .
so he runs and runs day in and day out on his wheel and all he can see is the next step that his little feet can reach .
and the next step is coming right after that one and he hurries so he doesnt miss a step and the more he hurries the faster the steps come rushing on and he gets the feeling that he can never get ahead .
lilly ann was exhausted just holding that picture in her mind .
abrahamster tries to talk to his uncle whillie and explains about law of attraction , that he would just have to stop worrying about the next step on the wheel for a moment and turn his head so he could see what else is out there and get some new thoughts into his mind .
he might be able to jump off the wheel altogether and find the life that he had been secretly wishing for all along .
but you know it is hard to hear something that you did not ask for yourself , when the reality in front of your eyes is telling you a different story .
there is much to think about just by looking around you and observing where you stand and there is much to regret and bemoan when your past has not been much to your liking and there is much to worry and fret about when you see your future just as an extension of your past and your now .
and so whillie takes another spin on the hamster wheel chalking up abrahamsters well intended suggestions as youthful idealism that has nothing to do with the life of an old hamster who has to provide for a big family .
maybe some of what abrahamster has said to uncle whillie got stuck in whillies mind and will make him curious about other ways to go about his life .
maybe one day he will look around and focus on a different thought than whatever is in front of his eyes and then law of attraction will help him by providing stuff that match the new thoughts he was offering .
i am sure that it will be a very happy day in whillies life when he recognizes that he can do something about changing his life just by deliberately focusing his thoughts .
hm , taylor was not yet completely comfortable with this train of thought , something about that law of attraction business doesnt seem right to me .
he was hunting for the right words , why would law of attraction not just bring us what we really want and everyone would live happily ever after ?
it seems to be a great waste of time and energy to bring us the wrong stuff all the time .
thats exactly what uncle whillie said when abrahamster told him about loa for the first time .
the thing is , loa as the name suggests is a law of the universe .
it is something like the older brother of the law of gravity .
gravity does not make a difference between a raindrop that falls from the sky to water the plants on the ground and a man that falls from the sky which makes a big mess and almost kills him , she smiled at taylor with raised eyebrows , law of attraction works the same way .
it does not decide what is good for us or what is not good , it does not know what we want or what we do not want .
it only knows where our attention is at any given moment and it matches the vibration of the thoughts we are focused on with more of that .
taylor looked out over the river deep in thought .
if i want something that i dont have right now , he contemplated , and i feel bad because i dont have it , it is only because of the way i think about it ?
yep , was lilly anns short answer .
and if i find a way to think about what i want and not about not having it , it makes me feel better because then i am going with the flow ?
yep , lilly ann eagerly awaited taylors next thought .
and if i do that , i get whatever i want ?
yep .
this sounds simple enough , he concluded .
told you , lilly ann beamed .
but not easy , he cautioned .
no one ever said that , she shrugged .
right , he frowned , so what is all of this good for ?
it seems a lot of effort just to remember what we should know to begin with ?
i think the reason is more , lilly ann said cryptically .
more of what ?
came the prompt question .
more of everything , for her it was clear as day , we look into the world and decide what we want more of .
then we relax into that idea and let the river carry us to that , and on and on it goes .
every time we have more we see the world from a new place and then we decide what else we want more of .
i guess thats what we are here for .
after a short pause she added , and of course not to forget the fun we can have along the way , thats what i am here for .
taylors mind was racing , trying to match up his vast life experience with the new ideas he had been confronted with over the past few days and weeks .
much of it made sense and it felt good .
much of it made sense but it did not feel good at all .
he realized how hard he had been paddling upstream and bucking the current on so many subjects and how badly the stream had beaten him up at times .
the thought that all of this had been caused by his own thinking was almost too much to bear .
you can only put your boat into the river where you stand right now , lilly ann tried to soothe the obvious tumult that was playing out on taylors face , thats enough , because its all youve got , so it has to be enough .
you are doing so exceptionally well , you can allow yourself to relax a little .
taylors hesitant nods and the wry smile on his lips made clear that it would take a while longer for him to sort through the conflicting thoughts and emotions that raged in his mind .
the tornado of new ideas had laid waste to life long believes and certainties and the chasm it has hewn into taylors worldview would have to be filled with new viewpoints and conclusions .
the door to a new world of thought had been blasted wide open and now he found himself on the other side searching for a new place to hang his hat .
taylors gaze wandered up the riverbank to where louis was still casting his line and flying his bait across the river .
he stood there , one with the flow of the river and one with the flow of his life .
he didnt seem to mind the time that had passed since any of the fish showed interest for his lures .
he cast his line , watched it drift down the stream to where he expected the fish to wait and reeled the line back in when the fly swam past its target untouched .
he straightened out the artificial insect that was tied to the end of his line and again the skillful arm drove the line through the air and onto the water .
he just stood there to fish like he had done for hours and days and years all the while learning about life and the flow and desire that wants to be allowed .
there is a lot you can learn from a river , right ?
taylor stated more than he asked .
everything , lilly ann agreed , one can learn everything there is to know about life while standing at a river to fish .
after a little pause she added , or while drawing a little cartoon , or while repairing a car engine , or while flying an airplane , or i get the picture , he interrupted her raising his arms in mocked defiance .
lilly ann got on her feet signaling that this picnic had run its course .
you have three choices how to get down from this tree , she had that devilish tone in her voice again , you can climb , jump or fall .
whats it gon na be ?
if these are my options , taylor played along laughing , ill first try to climb , then jump and if both dont work , i guess ill fall .
you go first so you can catch me if everything else fails , will ya ?
no way , lilly ann shrieked and ran to the beached end of the tree trunk and jumped off into the soft sand laughing hysterically .
taylor joined her laughter and slowly followed her at a pace more consistent with the current state of his body .
chapter 12 just ask lilly lilly ann and taylor had waved good bye to louis , the fisherman , and walked back towards the sudbury main building .
stepping out of the forest onto the open park landscape they immediately were engulfed by the lively afternoon activities on the lawns and flowerbeds .
i wonder what the world would look like when every school was as much guided by inspiration as sudbury , taylor mused , when more people could grow up with the guidance and wisdom that your philosophy provides .
i bet things would be a lot different from what they are now .
maybe , lilly ann replied , but as you know , the difference is in the asking and in the allowing of answers to flow , not in the teaching of wisdom or philosophy .
you mentioned that before , taylor was still skeptical , but to me this still sounds a bit like an easy way out .
im not sure i would have asked any questions if i hadnt seen your way of life right in front of my nose .
in that regard reality was very convincing to me .
you are selling yourself short , john taylor , lilly ann suggested , from what i have heard you say , you have had these questions simmer in your mind for a very long time , maybe all the way back to your childhood .
also , your friends saw the same things around here that you did .
none of them raised any questions or was willing to get to the core of what we are all about .
they didnt ask so they could not see .
you asked and now you see .
thats one way to look at it , taylor conceded still not entirely convinced .
for the next few weeks taylor concentrated on getting his body back in shape and regaining the freedom to move about without assistance .
lilly ann had offered him to stay in her guest room as long as he liked and so his days were filled with physical exercise , breakfasts shared at the kitchen table , lunches and dinners at various eateries around town and the occasional invitation into private homes of lilly anns friends .
he had asked edie may if he could borrow transcripts from the lilly book which he studied for hours at a time .
lilly ann started to be concerned that his brain would catch fire if he kept devouring all that heavy intellectual stuff at the rate he was going .
she was certain that this could not be healthy for anybody .
occasionally he would ask lilly ann to drive him to sudbury for another session at the lilly book to find clarification on subjects , which perplexed him more than usual .
taylor slept a lot and enjoyed hot baths in the bath shed next to lilly anns gingerbread house .
he got more accustomed to the way of life in flugerton and so the stark contrast to his own past did not feel as disorienting to him as it had before .
still , the more he read and intellectually understood of the philosophical foundation the town was built on , the more restless he became .
he felt a growing responsibility to the people he had left behind .
if they only knew what he knew , was a thought that he could not get out of his mind .
on his frequent walks around town taylor could not help but be amazed by the open and genuinely positive way people would greet him into their lives .
not a day passed by that he did not receive a spontaneous invitation for an afternoon cup of tea or a refreshing glass of buttermilk or lemonade .
sure , almost everyone in town had heard of the man who fell from the sky and children kept yelling , geronimo !
whenever they spotted him in the streets , but it was not the hunger for sensational stories or the prestige of having the infamous flying man as guest , that he sensed .
it was the simple pleasure to sit with the new guy in town and exchange a few stories , a few laughs or ideas that made people open their homes and hearts to him .
he learned as much from the stories he heard on these occasions as he did studying the lilly book papers .
i had the most enlightening conversation today , taylor announced , coming home from one of his afternoon walks , with a four year old girl , he added with emphasis .
yeah , what she say ?
lilly ann asked .
she was drawing with chalk on the sidewalk , so i asked her what she was drawing , taylor reported , she said , abramster .
and looked at me as if there was something wrong with me for not noticing right away .
then she said , your turn .
i didnt think i had much choice in the matter so i picked up a piece of chalk and before i could touch it to the ground she had grabbed my hand and carefully dragged it back and forth over the stones until , im not kidding you , a beautiful abrahamster cartoon was finished before me .
she jumped up , said , see ? , kissed me on the cheek and skipped down the road giggling .
it was most surreal , heartwarming , enlightening , inspiring , i dont know what else to say .
neat , lilly ann said with a big smile , did you ask her ?
ask her what ?
taylor replied .
if you should go back home to teach your people about law of attraction , lilly ann dropped the bomb on him , this is why you have been devouring all these transcripts like there is no tomorrow , isnt it ?
she looked him straight in the eyes without a hint of concern .
that would be a motivation to learn as much as i can , taylor agreed , but why would i ask a little girl on the street which way i should decide ?
what was the girls name ?
lilly ann asked back .
she said her name was lilly , taylor was curious where this would lead , i was surprised too when i heard that name again .
that should not surprise you , lilly ann laughed , every child in town is called lilly at an early age .
really , how come ?
taylor inquired .
well , right after edie came here with the lilly book and it became more and more clear that lilly flugers abrahamster would be the mayor of the town , so to speak , people started to name their newborn girls lilly more frequently .
in time lilly became not just a name but also a synonym of a girl born in flugerton .
since most of the first settlers had their own way of looking at every day things a few started to name their boys lilly too .
so , today every child is called lilly until they decide for a new name on their own .
the word lilly and small child or baby is almost interchangeable here .
that explains a lot , taylor had a hard time keeping his eye from popping out , but how do you distinguish between them when you call a child ?
you dont call them by their name , you call them by their vibration , lilly ann explained the for her obvious , that is very distinct .
wow , was all taylor could utter for a few moments .
maybe this society was even more complex and different than he had imagined .
how when i mean , he stuttered trying to get the concept aligned with his brain .
its not that complicated , lilly ann played down the for taylor unthinkable , every lilly is an individual on a vibrational basis .
they are still very much in touch with their inner reality and so they act much more from their inner truth than from outer circumstances .
they also react to your inner vibration much more than to whatever you might say to them .
that i see , taylor laughed , the girl this afternoon positively knew that i had no idea how to draw a hamster .
i still dont get why i would ask her about an important life decision .
its what we all do , lilly ann had a neck of making the most incredulous statements sound self evident .
do what ?
taylor insisted .
whenever any of us in their private lives or in a public matter has a question that they cant get clarity over , do i go left or right ? , do i tear down my house and build a new one or not ? , do we build a new street or leave the old one alone ? , simple things , you know , boil it down on your own to this or that ?
and then find any lilly and ask her .
because they have no interest in the matter at all , nor have any desire to understand the complexity of adult life , they read your inner most vibration and without any hesitation will pick one of the choices you presented to them .
then you go do that .
simple , isnt it ?
you are leading me on , right ?
taylor didnt know what to believe .
no , why would i , youll see soon enough , lilly ann shrugged .
so , what if i realize that i dont want to go with the choice that lilly made ?
taylor felt very smart because he thought he had uncovered a flaw in the system .
hallelujah !
lilly ann clapped her hands and laughed , you just found out what you really want .
so you choose that , no harm done .
they wont hold it against you .
taylor didnt know if this was too complicated or too simple for him to accept , but he had found one more weak spot in the matter .
at what age would you stop asking a child for advice ?
he asked .
that depends , lilly ann did not miss a beat , kids are all different .
the only thing that matters is , that they answer without hesitation and without actively thinking about the issue at hand .
once a lilly answers something like let me think about this .
or what do you mean ?
then they know on their own that it is time to choose a new name .
many of them will tell you flat out go ask lilly , i am lilly ann or whatever their chosen name might be .
thats what i did , i think i was about three and a half years old .
are you telling me that if i would ask a group of children the same question they would all answer the same ?
this was a tough pill to swallow for taylor .
yep , lilly ann enjoyed this immensely , although there is a very high probability that only one of them would answer you and the others would ignore you and go about their own business .
it is amazing , ill give you that , but when you remember where they had come from just a short while ago , pure positive energy , that they might have that direct connection to our vibrational nature for a while longer makes some kind of sense , doesnt it ?
she looked lovingly at taylor , happy and proud that he would work so hard trying to understand the unexplainable .
our town , all you see around you is built on decisions made by children younger than five years of age , thats why we do not have any form of government .
for anything complicated or far reaching we just ask lilly .
do all children have this ability ?
taylor asked .
yes , lilly ann confirmed , all lillys are the same in their connection to our nonphysical nature .
only their growing focus in the physical world and the abstract contemplation of ideas and circumstances puts distance between them and the inner world .
the very nature and reason of human existence ends their ability to read vibration directly .
have you asked lilly yet ?
was a question taylor would start to hear several times every day .
not from lilly ann , she never pressured him into anything he didnt seem to be ready for , but from strangers or acquaintances he met on the street .
the whole town seemed to have developed an interest in the progress he was making with his studies and his plans for the future .
it was a rare occurrence that someone would waltz into town and try to pick up their whole philosophy and way of life from scratch .
the last one some of the elders remembered was lilly anns grandfather fritz who at first didnt show any interest other than for a certain young female who was the reason he came back to flugerton to begin with .
hi john , have you asked lilly yet ?
became the standard greeting that taylor was welcomed with around town .
it wasnt ill spirited and the innocent curiosity lead to many interesting discussions and pleasurable chitchat .
not yet , you think its time to ask ?
taylor replied on many occasions .
thats only for you to know , the answer was always the same , or you could ask lilly .
now there was a closed loop if there ever was one .
one day taylor was resting his legs sitting down on one of the many bench sculptures that lined the streets as a young couple that strolled by holding hands recognized him from across the street .
taylor had seen them on several occasions but had never talked to them before .
the young man waved and yelled , geronimo !
have you asked lilly yet ?
his girlfriend giggled and slapped him over the head .
behave yourself michael , she scolded still laughing , or i will finish our walk on the other side of the street .
she started to cross the street with michael in tow .
dont mind this bigmouth , sir , she addressed taylor , he has been following me around all day .
i cant seem to get rid of him .
any idea what i should do ?
she stuck out her hand to shake taylors , i am ren , pleased to meet you mr. taylor .
taylor was delighted by the fresh and entertaining spectacle those two provided for him .
the pleasure is all mine , ren and michael , he shook both of their hands , about your dilemma with being followed , ren , i would say your best bet would be to just ask lilly .
all three burst out into laughter .
tell me , taylor seized the opportunity , it seems my own quest has been given newsworthy status around town .
whats the story that people are telling ?
ren and michael looked at each other not quite sure how to take the invitation to gossip .
you know , there is not much news in town usually , ren started , so , when you and your friends first showed up with your unusual request it was a welcome diversion .
you coming back in such a spectacular fashion sparked all kinds of discussions and contemplations .
most of us hadnt paid much attention before , to the idea of living without knowing what we know .
she quickly lost her trepidation to talk candidly .
when you started to show up at the lilly book more frequently people were wondering how it would be to have to reinvent ones entire believe system .
i for one find it hard to even imagine .
everyone is rooting for you , that much is certain , though .
in a way you are a big hero to me and the guys , michael blurted out , you put a lot on the line to improve life for yourself and for others and now you want to do it all over by maybe going back to your home town to spread the word about loa .
that takes some guts and confidence in your own vibes .
it is amazing , taylor thought to himself , how similar the language and demeanor of kids in flugerton were to those in central camps and how far apart they were , well , vibrationally .
michael , would you do me a favor , taylor spoke to the young man .
sure , anything , michael said without hesitation .
dont think of me as a hero , taylor requested , all the heroes ive known are long dead and i can tell you , im not one of them .
i do all of this mainly for my own benefit .
yeah , but thats what it is all about , isnt it , michael disagreed , find your own selfish desire and to go for it , especially if you dont know beforehand all the hows and whys .
thats as heroic as it gets , he said passionately , around here at least .
i dont understand , taylor said , in my book heroes are supposed to be role models of selfless service to others .
no !
both kids exclaimed at once , laughing about the fact that they agreed on something for a change .
no , ren repeated , if you think you do something for someone else you are just delegating the responsibility for your own happiness .
its like , i do something for you , and then you must be happy , for me to be happy .
what if that other person has a totally different idea of what would make them happy ?
then you both lose out .
really , you can never know what would make another person happy , you just cant read their vibes .
there is only one person in the whole universe that you can make happy , that is you .
do whatever makes you happy , then you have something to give to another , she laid out the simple truth for taylor , sorry , i didnt mean to lecture you , she added a bit embarrassed .
no need to apologize , taylor said , no , really , thank you .
this was most enlightening .
and by the way , i am sure youll do just fine handling our hotheaded friend here , he nodded towards michael with a wink .
how many miracles does it take to make a saint ?
lilly ann asked taylor later during their occasional pre dinner drink on lilly anns back porch .
three , i guess , taylor remembered from his theological classes in school .
how many saints does it take to found a church ?
lilly ann continued to ask .
i dont know , maybe ten or twenty ?
does this exercise have any practical merit ?
taylor wanted to know .
well , i got to thinking while i was drawing earlier , lilly anns eyes were twinkling in the late afternoon sun , you are just one man to carry the church of abrahamster into the world , so to speak .
three miracles to a saint and twenty saints to found a church , have you experienced fifty or sixty incidents yet that felt like a miracle to you ?
taylor was a bit dumbfounded by that train of thought for a moment .
a church ?
a saint ?
he didnt want anything to do with either one .
what are you talking about ?
he shook his head , and with much conviction he added , church is boring and saints are dead .
lilly ann was royally amused by his strong willed outburst .
all i am saying is , that you might want to experience firsthand the fullness of your inner path a bit more in depth before you go out and preach it to someone else , she said .
got it , taylor conceded , thats why i am studying all the time .
this whole abrahamster vibe attraction thing is so simple yet so mighty complex .
sometimes i think ill never really get it .
i know , she replied lightly , but whats the rush ?
both of them nodded , sipped their martini cocktails and enjoyed the sound of critters getting warmed up for their nightly concert .
you know , taylor broke the silence .
i have no intention to found a church .
i know , was lilly anns lazy reply .
me , founding a church , taylor scuffed , he just could not let the thought go , no way .
i know , lilly ann repeated , yet , even though it might not be your intention , if you happen to get through to a bunch of people , many of them will see it that way .
they will make you their saint and call your house their church .
theres not much you can do about that .
if you preach to those who didnt ask , they will not want to know .
they will say , he is the only one who knows .
and they will praise you and worship you and then nail you to a cross .
it has happened before , you know ?
you sound a lot like abraham , when you get all serious , taylor wanted to get off the subject .
there is a lot of abraham in everything that abrahamster says too , lilly ann replied , its hard to speak the inner truth and not sound like abraham , sort of , she concluded .
so you think i should stay here and learn more hands on what the spiritual path is all about before i try to teach it to others ?
taylor probed .
i cant know that , john , lilly ann said softly , it is your path and your intentions and your desires that you must follow .
i just speak out loud what abrahamster whispers into my ear .
i knew you would say that , taylor laughed .
i knew that you know , lilly ann replied .
a few days later at breakfast taylor knew that edie may would join them even before he had heard her signature knock at the door .
it was not so much that he was in tune with her vibration enough to sense her intentions but lilly ann only brewed herbal tea in the morning when she expected edie mays visit .
john , have you asked lilly yet ?
edie may greeted him and laughed when she saw him roll his eyes .
you people have a fascination with having fun at someone elses expense , dont you , he complained jokingly .
oh no , edie may defended herself , you are the only one who brings that out in us , and we appreciate you for it , she laughed .
so happy to be of service , he continued the joke .
no , seriously , edie mays tone of voice changed , your quest even inspired a new childrens game .
have you asked lilly yet ?
is a phrase that gives us an opportunity to reacquaint ourselves with the true meaning behind that tradition .
you know , sometimes an inspired idea can become a habit and then a tradition and then just a hollow ritual if we dont remember where it came from and why it was a good thing in the first place .
you have no idea how much we really appreciate this .
neat , lilly ann interrupted , i have to come to sudbury some time to play it with the kids .
sounds like a lot of fun .
taylor didnt know if he should be proud of himself or embarrassed , so he decided to , once again , be genuinely surprised for the time being .
you know what bothers me about that whole just ask lilly idea ?
taylor thought this was as good a time as any to get closer to making up his mind , it feels to me as if i would ask permission for something i want to do , so i would not have to take responsibility for the outcome .
whats wrong with that ?
lilly ann shrugged .
well , i always take responsibility for my actions , taylor insisted , if i screw up , ill fix it .
isnt that normal ?
normal is a dangerous word , john , edie may cautioned , we actually believe that it is all but impossible for any of us to really screw up , to use your terminology .
we believe that life is eternal , so you can not ever be done trying out something new or ingesting new ideas .
with that in mind , you also can not get it wrong , ever .
if you find out that the path of your choice does not lead to the desired outcome you have provided an extremely valuable personal conclusion from a new vantage point that would not have been possible without your supposed error .
so , you choose again .
end of one story , beginning of the next one .
isnt that the end of personal accountability ?
taylor wondered .
it is the end of guilt and fear , edie may stated simply , and neither guilt nor fear were ever great advisors for mankind .
again there was an idea put in front of taylor that he had heard of before , but would have never expected to be that relevant in a very private matter for him .
he shuddered at the thought of how much time it might take for him to fully live what he had just begun to understand intellectually .
what is your question for lilly really ?
edie may was curious , have you even thought about it yet ?
the question i am asking myself , taylor stressed , and which i might ask lilly is , do i live up to the responsibility that i feel for the people that are dear to my heart in south central or do i follow my instinct that tells me to stay here and learn everything that i can for myself .
i still have a very painful memory of what happened last time when i tried to leave against my personal desire .
i am also fully aware of the fact that i am a bloody novice in the vibration energy work and that my attempt to show others might be more confusing than helpful .
still , it might take me years of studies and living amongst your people for me to fully understand law of attraction and its application in every day life .
what am i going to do in the meantime ?
i would have to earn my keep somehow .
i cant very well stay here and abuse lilly anns hospitality .
so , the question is do i stay or do i go ? , right ?
lilly ann seized the opportunity when taylor had to take a breath .
i guess it boils down to that , taylor confirmed .
good , said edie may and directed her attention to the steaming cup of tea in front of her .
hi lilly , taylor greeted the little boy who was sitting on the stairs in front of his home , concentrated on the coloring book in his lap .
i am randy , the boy answered , lilly is in the house .
are you geronimo ?
he jumped up and yelled , lilly , come on out , mr. geronimo is here !
taylor had a hard time not laughing out loud .
thank you randy , he said , you are very helpful .
dont mention it , the boy replied .
a little girl in a flowery summer dress peeked from behind the half opened door .
her big dark green eyes were calmly fixed on taylor .
she cautiously stepped down the wooden stairs with her bare feet .
geronimo ?
she said with a voice that could have melted a glacier .
she smiled at him and held the stuffed bear she was clutching towards taylor .
his name is geronimo too , she announced .
yeah , right , her brother rolled his eyes and retreated into the house .
taylors heart was about to jump into his throat .
he didnt know how to find the right words in the face of such innocence .
lilly stood there patiently waiting for him to make up his mind .
she looked at him , her head cocked , holding her bear and curling a strand of her auburn hair with the other hand .
it doesnt get any better than that , taylor said to himself .
determined to forever keep this moment in his memory he took a deep breath .
may i ask you a question , lilly , he eased himself into uncharted waters .
yes , lillys reply was like a secretive whisper .
shall i go home to tell people about law of attraction and everything else i have learned here ?
he asked in the simplest way he could think of .
the girl did not hesitate for a second .
nah , she squealed shaking her head that her hair flew all around her head .
she laughed an intoxicating laugh , skipped down the stairs and grabbed taylors hand .
wan na play chinchilla ?
she asked pulling him towards the back yard .
i dont know what this is , taylor admitted , but i am sure you can teach me .
with a sigh of relief he added , thank you , lilly .
so , youll stick around for a while longer ?
lilly ann greeted taylor as he opened the door .
it seems so , he smiled , news travels fast around here , doesnt it ?
good news does , lilly ann smiled back at him .
what about other news ?
taylor asked .
there isnt any .
it was as simple as that .
period .
chapter 13 john kisses good the next morning lilly ann was in especially high spirits .
she whistled an impromptu melody skipping down the stairs .
taylor had a feeling that something was up but he didnt ask .
he had done that before and had been quickly tied up in a i know something that you dont know !
game that had taken several hours before it was concluded , revealing their life changing dinner plans for that night .
so he just sat back on his favorite chair in the kitchen and smiled knowingly , and a lot of good that did him .
arent you going to ask ?
lilly ann got her game rolling .
ask what ?
taylor replied innocently .
he wasnt giving up that easily .
ask what i know , that you dont know , lilly ann cast her net .
and what would that be ?
he had to remember to be more careful next time .
im not going to tell you , she played her cards , because you didnt ask me nicely in the first place .
thats all right , because you dont know , that i know , what you know , he bluffed sporting his best high stakes poker face .
for a fraction of a second lilly ann was thrown off balance .
who told ?
she blurted out before she recognized her mistake .
gotcha !
taylor basked in his little victory .
no fair , she complained , thats against the rules !
now im never gon na tell you .
what are you never going to tell me , oh , he was really getting good at this .
about the party , lilly ann gave up just enough to bait the trap .
what party ?
taylor promptly walked straight in .
ah , so you dont know about it after all , she laughed dancing around the kitchen , i win !
i am the queen of the secret game !
she proclaimed .
wan na know ?
she just couldnt let him off the hook that easily .
only if you want to tell , he replied nonchalantly .
ok , ok , she feigned giving up under pressure , if you have to know , a few of your new friends are throwing a party at the schwyzer house tonight , to celebrate the glorious completion of your just ask lilly quest .
they seem to be happy that you are staying for a while longer , she revealed the juicy details of her secret .
i am happy too , she added with a slightly different timbre in her voice .
now that is mighty nice of them , taylor was genuinely moved .
we never pass up a reason for a celebration , its just too much fun , she set the event into the right light , there is going to be a band and dancing and dress up fine dining , so , wear something pretty .
that might be a tad difficult , i completely forgot to bring my tux and dress shoes , taylor smiled apologetic , any idea where i could borrow some ?
lets raid dads closet , lilly ann was excited at the prospect of having another reason to dig through her fathers stuff .
are you sure he wont mind , taylor cautioned , i dont want to get you in trouble with him .
i wouldnt worry about that , lilly ann said calmly , dads pretty cool about his possessions .
youll see .
am i ever going to meet your parents ?
taylor asked .
he sensed that there was more to the story than lilly ann let him know .
sure , lilly ann replied quickly without further explanation .
after breakfast lilly ann showed taylor the magical world of her under staircase walk in closet .
the walls , ceiling and floor were lined with smooth wooden panels drenching the room in a strong red cedar scent .
clothes racks , chests of drawers and carton boxes neatly organized the diverse mens wardrobe .
each piece , even the most casual garments , exuded an air of artistry and attention to detail .
taylor had enjoyed wearing the shirts and pants lilly ann had offered him before and had marveled at their exceptional quality and comfort but the variety before his eyes surpassed anything he could have imagined to be stored in this small house .
we are looking for something fancy and fun , lilly ann decided .
she opened a tall gliding door cabinet that revealed a row of formal suits of various colors and styles .
now that is what im talking about , she exclaimed , whats your favorite color to wear ?
i never really thought about it , taylor admitted , what would you like to see me in ?
lilly ann looked him up and down and curled her lips .
orange , she said finally .
what ?
taylor jumped with eyes big as saucers .
just kidding , lilly ann laughed , how about this ?
black and blue , cant go wrong with that , right ?
the dark blue jacket she had taken from the hanger was cut in a straight , almost oriental style , with intricate floral pattern embroidery in the same color on the sleeves and cuffs .
try it on , she suggested , i believe you wear the same size as dad .
taylor had just about given up on believing in chance or destiny the longer his stay in flugerton lasted but the perfect fit of this elegant garment that framed his shoulders and chest like it was made just for him almost made him reconsider .
the length of the jacked flowed almost down to his knees emphasizing his tall and slender build .
lilly ann had to remind herself to breathe and not stare at taylor .
to see him in her fathers elegant suit put her self control to the test .
i think you can take that off for now , she said averting her eyes .
she quickly grabbed a pair of black slacks , a hand woven white french cuff shirt , cuff links , a pair of dress socks and a pair of black suede dress shoes and made her way out into the safety of her hall way .
are you all right , taylor was getting a bit concerned .
sure , of course , what do you mean , im just fine , lilly ann stammered completely out of character , always these tough questions , she laughed at her own sudden insecurity .
a moment later she had regained her center and was being herself again .
i am going upstairs to work a bit on the next issue of the chronicle , lilly ann suggested , do you want to go out for a walk ?
we could meet for lunch here in the early afternoon , that gives us plenty of time to get ready for the evening .
what are you going to wear ?
taylor asked innocently .
you will have to wait until you see , she said in a promising tone .
i am looking forward to it already , taylor answered smilingly .
there was something about lilly ann that day that he had never noticed before , a certain very much feminine quality that struck a chord in him whenever he looked at her .
he had thought of her like his kid sister more than anything else before , now he wasnt so sure anymore .
maybe a walk in fresh air would help him clear his mind .
a few hours after the sun had passed its zenith taylor returned to the house .
he found the kitchen empty , a sandwich waiting for him on the table and a note in lilly anns childlike handwriting .
sorry i missed you .
enjoy the sandwich .
back soon .
in a while , crocodile , la .
it was definitely a day of many firsts , and the main event had not even started yet .
taylor didnt quite know what to make of it , but lilly anns secretive behavior paired with his own upbeat mood after the invigorating walk let him expect nothing but the best .
this was going to be fun .
he ate the sandwich and enjoyed a glass of lemonade from the icebox while reading a few pages in one of the older lilly book transcripts .
soon he decided that his mind was not focusing on the text so he retired to his room to start getting himself ready for the evening .
looking at his reflection in the mirror on top of the dresser he decided that he needed a bath , a shave and a haircut .
well , two out of three will have to do , he thought not seeing any way to get his hair cut without doing some investigating first .
he undressed and put on his borrowed bathrobe to tend to his personal hygiene in lilly anns bath shed .
there always seemed to be enough hot water in the reservoir to fill the round wooden tub .
it never occurred to him to ask how or why , it was just a luxurious convenience that he took for granted .
with the temperature of the bath water to his liking he climbed into the tub to relax and soak and enjoy the fine fragrance of one of the many bath soaps lilly ann had collected on one of the shelves .
he always used his time in the hot water to stretch and massage his muscles , which were still recovering from the after effects of his injuries .
washing his arms and legs he was again pleasantly surprised at the rapid and complete rehabilitation of his skin from the scuffs , burns and bruises he had sustained during his fall or to be more precise , at his unintentional landing .
edie mays remedy had obviously worked a genuine miracle on him .
taylor thanked his stars for the lucky fact that there used to be a male occupant in the house .
daily necessities such as shaving utensils were still at hand and he put them to good use .
the lather of the slightly perfumed shaving soap was rich and smooth and gave his skin a glowing appearance .
he thoroughly enjoyed the manly ritual , which gave him the daily opportunity to reconnect with his masculine character traits .
pleased with the result of his thorough personal cleanup he made his way back into the house and decided to get some rest before putting on the evening garments , which were waiting in his room .
he had just sat down in a comfortable chair and picked up a back issue of the chronicle to browse through when he heard the front door open and close .
no peeking !
lilly ann shouted before he was able to open the door to the hallway , ill be upstairs to make myself ready .
meet me in the kitchen in an hour .
she didnt even come to his door and hurried up the stairs to the second floor .
this was new , and taylor had a suspicion that it would not be the last thing this evening .
he took his time to inspect the various pieces of clothing that were displayed on hangers all around the room .
it was almost impossible to believe that pure chance had brought him to a house that was full of clothes and other items that would make his stay so wonderfully uncomplicated .
but here he was , about to put on a suit that belonged to lilly anns father and still looked as if it was tailor made for him .
the irony was not completely lost on him .
in his former life , which wasnt further off than a few months , he would not have dreamed of going out in public wearing an outfit as fancy and flamboyant as the one he was about to put on .
the upper part of the black dress pants was cut so close to his body that they looked as if painted on .
he was getting a little concerned about the dinner part of lilly anns plans until he sat down to put on socks and shoes .
to his delight , the material was not only of deep black color and smooth and skin tight , it was also flexible enough to not restrict his movements .
this might work out after all , he thought .
he fought a bit to get the cufflinks working correctly .
they were constructed with an intricate mechanism that only revealed a bright red crystal on either side of the cuffs when they were closed .
he slipped into the formal coat and stood in front of the mirror for final inspection .
taylor almost did not recognize himself in the unfamiliar wardrobe .
everything about this suit accentuated his most favorable features .
his hair was growing long which gave his face a daring yet poetic touch .
he had never paid much attention to his appearance besides an almost military tidiness , but he had to admit to himself that he liked what he saw in the mirror .
you can come out now , taylor heard lilly ann from the top of the stairs .
he opened the door and looked up .
lilly ann was still hiding out of sight when he heard her announce with a slight insecure wavering in her voice , ready or not , here i come .
taylor could not help but gasp at the image that seemed to appear out of thin air before him .
like a mirage conjured up by an ancient fairy tale , the epitome of woman all but hovered at the top of the stairs , looking at him with eyes as big as the sun and as bright as the moon .
she gently floated down the stairs , her feet barely touching the ground , never averting her gaze .
her dress was a symphony of miles of sheer weightless veils that surrounded her like a cloud of color and light .
the halter less top a chalice to safe keep the promise of her innocent beauty .
her hair , on any other day tamed to a pony tale or hidden under a hat , framed her face like red and auburn storm driven waves of the sea , laced with braided strands of gold and crystal .
he could not take his eyes off her , not even to blink .
every woman is a queen to someone , and john taylors queen had just arrived .
you are beautiful , he stammered after having had to swallow hard a few times before he was even able to speak , absolutely out of this world .
lilly ann looked deep into his eyes searching for a sign that he understood the deeper meaning of the last words he had spoken .
she didnt quite see it yet but the choice of his words alone promised that he would one day soon .
she graced him with the smile of a woman who liked what she saw .
dont sound so surprised , she whispered , you dont look too bad yourself , you know ?
stepping down the last of the stairs she added , just pray that i dont kill myself with those heels .
it must have been a man who came up with shoes like that , she laughed .
the magical moment had passed and reality settled down on them like a comfortable blanket .
however , the awe and appreciation of having seen a vision plucked from a heavenly realm would never again leave taylors heart .
are you ready for your party ?
lilly anns voice lured him back to their moment in time .
for you my queen , i was born ready , he delivered the corny phrase with his best british accent and relished the laughter it earned him .
do we walk or take the van ?
neither , she announced , i commanded a carriage .
she slipped her hand under taylors arm and pulled him to the front door .
outside the afternoon sun drenched the street in golden light and taylor could not believe what he saw .
my prince , your ride , lilly ann proclaimed theatrically .
the vehicle that was parked in front of lilly anns house defied any definition .
two beautiful black clydesdale draught horses , at least nineteen hands tall , stood in bright red and gold harness , calmly waiting to pull their carriage .
it was much more difficult to find words for the wagon they were employed to draw .
taylor had seen motorcars like that in ancient movies from more than three hundred years ago .
they were called cadillac and this specific model did not have a roof and its rear fenders were shaped like shark fins .
the engine had obviously been removed and been replaced by a pole to attach the horses harness as well as a raised bench to provide a perch for the driver .
lilly anns brother willie proudly occupied the drivers seat and waved at them with a buggy whip .
he was clad in a bright red mock uniform with golden tassels and a tall hat and he was obviously enjoying the perplex stares his most unusual team earned from his guests and from bystanders .
he jumped off his seat and opened the doors for his two passengers .
hop in , he said eagerly , make yourselves comfortable .
this was willies idea , lilly ann announced to taylor , isnt this fun !
she gathered up the countless layers of her veil dress and climbed into the back seat that was lavishly covered in red crushed velvet .
taylor , still in shock and disbelieve in view of this surreal horse drawn carriage , quickly followed her and let himself sink into the pillow soft seat .
willie mounted his drivers perch and cracked his whip for fun .
well pick up edie may and grandpa on the way to the schwyzer house , if you dont mind , he said turning back to them , and off they went .
lilly ann and taylor didnt mind the least .
what could have been a more fun and pleasant way to spend a lazy afternoon than to be chauffeured around town by these powerful animals and their most accommodating driver ?
people on the streets stopped dead in their tracks , waved , whistled , and laughed .
flugerton had a new attraction and everyone was loving it .
it took them the better part of an hour to gather up their additional passengers who were just as amazed and amused by their ride as the first two had been .
another brief drive concluded their carriage ride in front of the tavern where guests were steadily arriving and festive lighting set the stage for the party in the outdoor dining area .
willie parked the coach right in front of the schwyzer house main gate .
quickly word got around that the guest of honor and his entourage had arrived and the crowd gathered to welcome taylor and to congratulate him to his brave decision .
he shook more hands than he could remember names .
overwhelmed by the outpour of well wishes and hospitality , he would have needed a secretary to keep track of all the dinner invitations and offers for lodging accommodations he received within just a few minutes .
just in case you need a break from lilly ann , was added with a jovial wink more than once .
taylor and lilly ann were guided to the head of the longest table taylor had ever seen .
there must have been room for more than a hundred guests and the wait staff had already begun the never ending parade of food and drink for all guests .
they were just about seated when fritz neuwirt took an empty wine glass and used it as a bell to quiet the guest .
friends , he said repeatedly , friends , as you know a dear and brave soul has decided to walk his path alongside ours for a while longer .
lets show him that we not only know how to think , but also how to drink , cheers and hollering and clinking of glasses all around answered his joke , and dance and sing and throw a party as if there was no tomorrow .
well , there isnt one anyway , as long as i can remember it was always today , every day .
more cheers and laughing drowned out the rest of the speech and more than a hundred arms reached out to clink their glasses with the guests at the head of the table .
taylor got up from his chair and raised his glass .
i dont know half of you as much as i would like and i like all of you twice as much as i deserve , he was paraphrasing a birthday speech from an ancient text , my life came crashing down on wings of fire , literally , and you picked me up to show me another way .
that i will never forget .
it took him fifteen minutes to get through endless well wishes and clinking of countless glasses before he could take a sip from his wine and sit down in his chair next to lilly ann .
his face was aglow from the genuine affection bestowed on him by people he hardly knew and who hardly knew anything about him .
taylor was not used to being the center of attention and for sure not of such positive attention .
still , the natural and easygoing attitude everyone was displaying so freely , made him feel at home in the midst of all these strangers .
there wasnt much time to be contemplative , though .
appetizers were served on lavish porcelain platters and everyone wanted taylor to try their favorite treats .
his plate was refilled each time he had tasted the bite size delicacies and his wine glass never was just half full .
the variety of dishes that were served was fantastic .
there were tiny soup bowls with a myriad of different aromas and tastes and textures , steamed and grilled vegetables , masterfully prepared and seasoned with the most fragrant of spices , meats of every kind imaginable , cooked in countless ingenious ways , and a variety of bread which he could have never imagined before .
this meal was a carnival for the senses with surprises and delights around every corner , with no end in sight .
just as some of the guests indicated their inability to continue the carnal feast , music started to play .
a band of seven musicians had arranged themselves under the big oak tree and got warmed up with a wild tune of eastern european heritage .
two guitars , an accordion , a double bass , a clarinet , a saxophone and a fiddle filled the air with passionate music that sounded into the night .
all the musicians were accomplished singers and their harmonies expressed age old themes of love and life .
the first song had not even been concluded when men and women streamed onto the makeshift dance floor that had been constructed under the tree .
the colors and shapes of elaborate costumes , suits and gowns whirled around the parquet to the rhythm of the music and many a dancer joined in with the orchestra to sing along well known tunes .
lilly ann pulled on taylors arm .
dance with me , she whispered in a tone no man could have refused .
itll be my pleasure , he answered all cavalier , if you dont mind taking it slow with an old man .
dont say something like that , she jabbed him in the arm .
taylor got up from his chair and turned to lilly ann .
would you be so kind as to give me this dance , mademoiselle ?
he bowed in front of her .
she laughed and allowed him to lead her to the dance floor .
the band saw lilly ann and taylor approach and with an invisible signal they cut the song they were playing short and changed the tempo to a slow romantic waltz .
surprised looks turned into knowing smiles as other dancers spotted the two guests of honor .
lilly ann smiled at taylor and invited him into her dancers embrace .
her eyes locked onto his as she stepped closer .
his right arm reached around her back to ever so gently steady her against his body .
they began to sway to the music , completely unaware of their surroundings , both of their minds captured by the tenderness of their movements .
the world fell away from around them lost in a cloud of sound and touch and smell .
their feet not aware of the force that binds us to the ground and time was all but a rubber band stretched in either direction from the absolute moment of now , now and yet another now .
the crowd on the dance floor was politely unaware of the magic that took place in their midst .
a cocoon of movement and laughter and song created an intimate place for new feelings to be discovered and explored .
in a tender moment they both opened their eyes , their faces closer than ever .
hesitation for the sake of savoring the anticipation was all that kept them apart for just a second longer .
then , as if gravity itself had taken over , their faces were drawn closer and closer to each other .
no power in the world and far beyond would have been strong enough to change what had to come .
the first touch of their lips , light like a feather , sent waves of tingling electricity through their bodies and minds alike .
startled they both pulled back ever so slightly to look for reassurance in the others face .
an eternal moment of gentle consideration later their lips met again , hungry , passionate and powerful this time .
like fireworks their touch exploded no wait , that sound did not come from within their lively imagination .
lilly ann looked around her , confused only for a moment .
fireworks !
she exclaimed to give herself and taylor time to readjust to their surroundings .
and so it was , rocket after rocket painted the colors of the rainbow into the night sky accompanied by noisy fire crackers , roman candles , glitter and spinners and comets .
the uhhs and ahhs of the party guests mixed with the bands futile attempt to keep up with the deafening cacophony of the fiery display .
lets get out of here , lilly ann whispered into taylors ear .
he looked at her as if asking , are you sure ?
she nodded and took him by the hand .
no one paid much attention as the secretive pair quietly slipped to the exit to vanish into the night .
covered in the blanket of darkness they slowly strolled down the street , looking to the sky and then again at each other , just to sink once more into a blissful kiss that removed the barrier between their bodies and minds and souls .
leaned against a tree or a house or a poll they enjoyed the growing awareness of the secrets that their bodies still held .
the promise of more was apparent in every touch and kiss and every word .
sweet bell like giggles and moans and whispers could have been heard if anyone else had wanted to listen in to the lovers song .
but the night was quiet as if it had smiled at them and said , all is well .
you are loved .
a short walk that might just as well have taken forever brought them back to lilly anns house .
they both thought that their heartbeats could have been heard from miles away as they stepped through the door .
lilly ann did not release taylors hand as she turned onto the staircase that led up to her bedroom .
no words were necessary between them , their understanding easy and complete .
a man and a woman celebrating their awakening to the life summoning force of new love .
it doesnt get better that this .
mr. big tiptoed around the bed in lilly anns room , unsure if he was welcome as usual since an unfamiliar occupant was still fast asleep .
ever the fearless explorer he decided to jump anyway , landing near taylors bare feet .
oh , that toe looks familiar after all , the big cat thought and playfully started to nibble .
bite , kick , scream , the cat was back on the floor quicker than even he had anticipated .
taylor needed a moment to regain his bearings .
yes , right , last night , lilly ann .
where was his new lover anyway ?
taylor quietly climbed down the stairs , an interesting journey first thing in the morning .
he found lilly ann in shorts and t shirt gathering the ingredients for a hearty breakfast .
good morning , my love , he greeted her .
as she turned around his chin almost dropped to the floor .
the shirt she was proudly wearing sported a brand new abrahamster painting .
the little cartoon fellow was dressed in a blue t shirt himself announcing , john kisses good !
when , how , what , ... he stammered before they broke down in uncontrolled laughter , hugging and dancing around the kitchen .
this morning , i made it , this , lilly ann answered his questions and pointed at her chest .
i have a feeling that this is going to be a wild ride , taylor said with raised eyebrows .
you better believe it , lilly ann confirmed the obvious .
chapter 14 light john taylor had acclimated to life in flugerton with the constant challenge of readjusting his perception on many topics , from the mundane to the esoteric .
at first , when people would do something that seemed odd or illogical to him he used to just blurt that out .
he had earned his share of blank stares , annoyed looks as well as amused outbursts from pitying smiles to all out laughing fits .
so he got a bit more cautious over time , when he was trying to inquire about an unusual habit , especially when everyone else seemed to think it was the most natural thing in the world .
one of those things that perplexed him for a long time was the common use of artificial light .
even small children would go into dark rooms and just clap their hands twice and the lights would come on .
not only that , they would come on at different light levels depending on who did the clapping or what their intentions were in the room .
another double clap and the lights would go out .
one evening as he was meeting with edie may for a study session at the lilly book he got the perfect opportunity to find out about it .
edie may led him into the book hall , clapped her hands and the lights came on .
how did you do that ?
taylor asked right out .
do what ?
edie may asked back with a knowing smile on her face .
the lights , taylor insisted , how do you make the lights come on , and why the clapping ?
i tried it before and it does not work for me .
really ?
edie may was trying not to show her amusement too obviously , even the little ones know how to do it .
ive seen that .
taylor had some difficulty not to get impatient .
he decided to let edie may have her moment of humor .
come here , ill show you , she finally agreed .
it was a long time ago , when chaos was spreading and the war parties started to sabotage each others infrastructure , that one day without any warning the lights went out in flugerton .
somewhere between here and the main grid the power cords had been destroyed .
of course nobody thought of repairing them because for the rest of the world this area had been abandoned and deserted and that was just all right with our ancestors .
for three days the nights were dark if it were not for the candles that were put up all around the camps and villages .
in the evening of the fourth day one of the little ones came home after spending some time with the lilly book , which was still running off its solar power supply .
he walked into the dark living room , clapped his hands twice and the lights came on .
nobody had an explanation for this strange phenomenon .
they asked him to come to another house and the same thing happened .
he clapped his hands , and the lights came on .
of course everybody tried to do like he did but no luck .
the little guy seemed to be the only one who had power over the lights .
when they asked him how he did it he just said , i saw it in the lilly book .
this of course surprised everyone because many had studied the book and there were quite a few masters among them but even those were not able to do as the boy did without any effort .
so , they went to investigate and asked him to show them the page in the book where he had learned to control the lights .
they opened the lilly book and to everyones amazement he did not recall any abraham material or even drawings of abrahamster but he showed them the part of an ancient television broadcast that was interrupted by nervous little sketches that seemed to paddle merchandize in a very loud and annoying fashion .
can you imagine their looks when the people saw this ?
she started a short movie clip on the lilly book of various people clapping electric lights on and off with a little electrical clapper contraption .
not knowing what that device was , the little guy just thought that this was the obvious way to get the lights back on .
in his innocence he believed and expected the lights to come on and so they did .
it took a few days of sending the boy from house to house to turn the lights on and off until after many trials more and more people found the believe in their mind to replicate the effect .
today its one of the first things little children learn and nobody even asks why it works anymore .
taylor stared at edie may with his mouth and eyes wide open .
it took a long while of silence before he regained his speech .
wow !
was all he could utter for the moment .
he didnt even care to voice his next question yes , but how ?
he just knew that there would not be an answer that he could comprehend at that time .
later that night when he was alone with lilly ann he asked her about it .
dont feel bad , she said .
none of us would be able to turn on one light bulb if we ever thought about the why and how .
sometimes simple faith is the only thing that stands between us and darkness and i wouldnt have it any other way .
one day the ice man didnt come .
it had been unseasonably warm for almost two weeks and everyone expected tom the ice man to show up at their doorsteps every day to keep those ice boxes filled and their content cool and fresh .
yet , that morning tom was nowhere to be found .
ice was one of the great conveniences in flugerton .
without a regulated supply of electricity for every house blocks of ice afforded them the every day luxury of cool beverages and unspoiled food even during the hot summer months .
most people took the daily delivery of ice for granted , very appreciative , certainly , but without much further thought as to how it got there or where it was coming from .
lilly ann , in her role as town reporter , was curious what the reason might be for a day without ice that the whole town was facing .
i wonder whats up with tom , she said to taylor when noon came around without the icebox having been refilled , he always lets us know in advance when he is out for a day or two .
wan na come along to pay him a visit at the wal star building ?
sure , said taylor , always eager to learn more about his new hometown , what is wal star ?
its just this old building from before the war , lilly ann explained , i think it was some kind of market .
part of the sign is still there , it says , wal and a star , so we call it wal star .
i cant believe it , taylor laughed , you have a wal mart here ?
thats one of the few remaining chain stores in the country , wally world .
i have to see that .
happy , but somewhat surprised about taylors enthusiasm lilly ann led the way to her van and off they drove to the edge of town .
a short ride in the now smoothly running vehicle and sure enough , there it was .
the wal mart store had seen better days but the main structure was mostly intact .
the vast parking lot had been reclaimed by the neighboring meadows and a small herd of goats feasted on the hearty green between broken patches of concrete .
lilly ann did not want to risk getting stuck on the debris that cluttered up the front of the building so she parked the van at the entrance to the former parking lot .
she and taylor cautiously made their way to the back of the building where lilly ann remembered toms ice making operation .
turning the corner to the loading dock they spotted tom sitting on one of the platforms seemingly in deep meditation .
the sound of their feet on the loose gravel made him look up .
he blinked his eyes a few times and waved at them .
hello , what brings you out this way on such a lovely afternoon ?
he greeted them cheerfully .
well , we were wondering about the ice delivery , lilly ann answered , or better , why there wasnt any today .
are you all right , tom ?
i couldnt be better , tom laughed , sorry , that i didnt give any notice about the ice not coming today , but you see , the machine just stopped working early in the morning and i couldnt get it started up again .
i thought id meditate a bit , maybe ill get an idea how to fix it .
so , howd it go ?
lilly ann was curious .
nothing so far , tom admitted , but with the two of you here thats going to change , im sure .
you want us to meditate with you ?
lilly ann inquired , we can do that .
actually , i thought more in the direction of john having been able to fix your car , tom said hesitantly , maybe he can have a look at this old girl .
he lovingly patted the faded green cover of the diesel generator .
i guess sometimes meditation alone is not enough , right ?
taylor teased him .
no , no , tom disagreed , you came here after all , didnt you ?
thats some interesting logic , taylor shook his head , but if it works for you i wont argue .
so , what am i looking at here ?
its a diesel powered electric generator that supplies energy to the ice machine in the building , tom explained , its been here for generations and it never failed to start up again when it ran out of fuel or if one of the drive belts broke or something .
someone had made drawings of both units a long time ago and we always went by them to fix it .
this time is different , though .
nothing seems to be broken but it just doesnt want to run .
look , he said and pushed a button inside a little electrical box .
somewhere in the innards of the generator housing they heard a groaning noise that swelled to a screeching .
turn it off , taylor winced , youll fry the starter motor .
he looked at the drawings that tom presented to him .
somebody indeed had had a background in engineering , or so it seemed .
these were detailed blue prints of the makeshift ice making plant , complete with maintenance and trouble shooting procedures .
you say this thing has been running for how long ?
he asked tom for verification .
longer than anyone can remember , tom replied casually .
and its been running on what ?
taylor was getting a little worried .
its a mixture of recycled frying oil , alcohol and fresh vegetable oil , tom confirmed taylors suspicions , terry brings it when he goes to refill the cars in town .
how often do you adjust the valves on the diesel ?
taylor was afraid of the answer .
valves ?
came the expected reply with raised eyebrows .
never mind , taylor sighed , do you have any tools here ?
we have all kinds of tools , tom confirmed proudly , i dont think they have ever been used .
he opened the back door to the wal mart store and led them into a dimly lit workshop .
taylor couldnt believe his eyes as he saw the variety of tools that were neatly placed all around the room .
it seemed as if someone had pulled all the tools that were left behind from the shelves of the automotive department and hung them on the walls for display purposes .
oh my , he said , this is going to be fun .
he picked up a tool tray from one of the benches and began filling it with everything a man might need to build a diesel engine , not just to fix one .
they went back out to the generator to see what the problem might be .
the proceedings of the next few hours looked very familiar to lilly ann .
taylor was up to his elbows submerged in the big engine and handed greasy and dirty parts to tom , who in turn laid them out neatly on the loading platform .
tom and lilly ann looked at each other more than once , puzzled by the inventive curse words taylor spewed from time to time while removing overly stubborn parts .
does the cursing help ?
lilly ann teased him , i could try it too if it does .
ill let you know for the next tough one , taylor grinned at her like a man who is having the time of his life , maybe its easier if we both give it a go .
taylor spent hours with removing parts , cleaning them with alcohol and fresh oil , soaking up trapped fuel from the cylinders , reinstalling the parts and adjusting the valves according to the specifications found in the handbook .
the shadows were slowly making their way down the hill slopes when taylor came out from under the engine for the last time and wiped his forehead with a shop towel .
wan na give it a try ?
he asked tom .
oh , you fixed her , tom replied , you start her up .
lets hope that we fixed her , taylor insisted , but shes your baby , so go ahead .
tom opened the electrical box that housed the starter button .
his finger paused for a second .
you sure about that ?
he asked taylor , his concern for the machine obvious .
only one way to find out , taylor encouraged him .
tom pushed the button and the generator came to life .
three or four revolutions of the starter were enough to spark the ignition in the mighty motor .
the first few explosions sent thick black clouds from the smoke stack but after only a few seconds the engine ran smoothly and quietly .
is she still running ?
tom was not quite sure .
purring like a fat old cat , taylor grinned .
i can hardly hear her , tom complained , and there is no black smoke coming out .
how am i supposed to know if shes still running ?
taylor did not care to answer .
he just laughed and closed the panels over the generator assembly .
inside the building behind them a big block of ice fell noisily into the capture trough .
youll know , tom , he still laughed , youll know .
lilly ann had hardly spoken a word during all that time .
she had a dreamy look on her face while she was watching taylor in his element , surrounded by manmade technology .
his diligent and methodic approach and his insightful understanding of complex mechanics seemed so foreign to her , but at the same time it was so comforting to see it in her mate .
every time he lifted his head from the task he was performing to look at her , grinning like a little boy at play , so proud that he was able to give something to their community , she could have jumped up and down for joy .
instead , not to alarm him , she sat there on the edge of the dock and treasured every glimpse she could get of him and every gaze he bestowed upon her , and she smiled .
for a brief moment lilly ann felt the sting of doubt , if taylor would ever find himself truly happy in the secluded reality of flugerton .
his obvious love of technology and machinery seemed to be stifled in a society that was not too eager to solve every day problems with the help of technological contraptions , or so it seemed .
following his heroic rescue effort at the icemaker plant , taylor developed a magical attraction of broken technology .
not a day went by when he did not come across a car that needed a jump start or a toaster blowing up when they were visiting friends for breakfast .
he started to carry a basic toolkit with him to be prepared for minor repairs and so far he had been able to fix all but the most perplexing faults in all sorts of equipment .
his reputation made the rounds and people marveled at his skills .
it was good to have a handyman around everyone agreed , until someone got to thinking , that they didnt have as many things go wrong before they had someone to fix them .
taylor began to notice that fewer people crossed his way on his walks and whenever he was out with lilly ann .
he didnt think much about it until one day he left his tool belt at home because he hadnt touched a tool in more than a week .
walking out the door it came to him , law of attraction .
was he really so insecure that he needed other people to need him , even if it was just to fix their stuff ?
ridiculous !
taylor went back into the house and picked up his tool belt .
he went into lilly anns back yard to find a suitable piece of metal and a length of rope .
an orphaned wheel off a childs bicycle fit his bill perfectly .
he went out the front gate up to the mighty willow tree in front of lilly anns house .
he slung the rope over the lowest branch and perfectly balanced he tied the wheel to the rope .
he fastened the tool belt onto the wheel and with short pieces of strings from his pocket he tied up his tools to dangle from the belt .
satisfied with his work he hoisted the assembly ten feet into the air and tied the rope to the tree trunk .
lilly ann had watched taylor from inside the house since he had come back into the house from his aborted walk .
she was wondering what made him change his mind and she got curious when she heard him rummaging in the back yard .
what are you doing ?
she asked taylor looking out through an opened window .
its a sign , taylor winked at her .
a sign for what ?
she asked .
a sign that nobody needs to be afraid of john taylor breaking their stuff just so he can have something to fix , he looked at her a bit embarrassed .
oh , dont be so hard on yourself , she said , you cant go against law of attraction , everyone knows that .
i know , he conceded , but i had the impression that people started to avoid me .
so , here is the sign that i am officially hanging up my tool belt .
if something breaks from now on and i am near it , it wont be my doing .
you are being silly , lilly laughingly chastised him , on the other hand , this looks pretty , like wind chimes .
i like it .
taylor turned around to look at his work from a new angle .
it really looked interesting , almost like a piece of art .
you really like it ?
he turned to lilly ann .
yes , she said simply and closed the window .
taylor stood there a while longer contemplating this new turn of events .
there must have been something in the air or in the water he tried to convince himself before he went back inside .
a few days later one of the young cowboys from the turner farm came charging into town and brought his horse to a sliding stop on lilly anns front lawn .
he jumped off before the horse had come to a complete halt , ran up the stairs and started banging on the front door .
jimi , whats going on ?
lilly ann asked the breathless boy when she opened the door .
its mr. turner , jimi could hardly get the words out , we were removing a fallen tree on the pasture behind the farm .
the tractor stopped and the tree fell on mr. turner .
he is trapped .
we cant get it started again to lift off the tree .
is mr. taylor here , he can help .
i dont know , lilly ann said with a concerned face , john doesnt want anything to do with fixing things anymore .
oh , nonsense , taylor came running from the fence gate carrying a bag filled with tools , get in the car , ill help if i can .
they both jumped into the old van and lilly ann drove into the road with gravel flying behind them .
easy there , taylor cautioned , we wont do them any good if we kill ourselves on the way to help .
it was a short , wild ride to turner farm .
coming closer to the property they could see people running back and forth gesticulating and yelling .
a few horses had been strapped into a harness and several men tried to get a grip on the tree to lift it but to no avail .
the big trunk threatened to slide further down and crush the unconscious frank turner if it was moved the wrong way .
taylor jumped out of the car and ran over to assess the situation .
the heavy chain was still wrapped tightly around the tree but the hydraulic arm of the tractor stood limp with no pressure to work its magic .
a quick look under the hood confirmed taylors worst fears .
the cam timing chain had broken while the engine was under heavy load , which left several valves and cylinder heads badly damaged .
he knew that there was nothing he could do quickly here to salvage this engine .
he turned to the closest farm helper .
is there another tractor we can use ?
he asked urgently .
there is another one in the barn , the man confirmed , but ... no time for buts , taylor said firmly , show me .
they both ran off to the nearby barn and the man pointed at a huge farm machine that was covered under thick dust and straw clippings .
taylor did not pay attention to the objections the man was yelling after him .
he ran to the tractor , yanked off half a bail of hay from the cabin and jumped into drivers seat .
without even so much as a thought he turned the ignition and pushed the starter button .
with roaring engine , dragging a dramatic cloud of dust and hay behind him he raced the huge vehicle onto the pasture .
taylor drove the tractor past wide eyed farm workers and family members close to the fallen tree where turner was trapped .
three of the workers came running to help him affix the chain to the wide forklift on the front loader of the tractor .
stand aside until the tree is raised up enough , taylor yelled and jumped back into the vehicle .
for a second he studied the levers and wheels to find his bearings .
he gently pulled up one of the levers , which promptly raised the fork until the chain was tight .
taylor stepped on the gas pedal to increase engine power and without hesitation he raised the lever to its full extent .
slowly the mighty tree began to move , lifting its crown from the ground .
people who had been watching the proceedings with open mouths from a safe distance rushed in to retrieve frank turner from his trap .
frank is all right !
someone yelled from the other side of the tree .
almost at the same instant taylors tractor erupted into a series of deafening explosions before it quit with a heart wrenching screech .
steam and boiling water bubbled out from under the hood and thick black smoke billowed from under the drive train .
taylor quickly jumped off the farm machine and sprinted to a safe distance .
lilly ann ran up to him .
are you all right ?
she asked him , that was quite a show !
i am all right , taylor answered , but what is wrong with that thing ?
he pointed at the second broken tractor .
i think david tried to tell you when you went into the barn , lilly ann grinned at him with raised eyebrows .
tried to tell me what ?
taylor asked david , who had caught up with them .
that tractor , david hesitated , i tried to tell you , that tractor hadnt been driven since , since , ... davids voice trailed off , realizing the impossibility of what he was about to say .
since ?
taylor asked , not sure if he wanted to hear the answer .
since ever , david blurted out finally , half the engine had been used as spare parts for the other one .
nobody ever put fuel into it .
he obviously didnt care to further contemplate these facts so he just turned around and joined the others who had started to cut the tree into pieces to remove it the old fashioned way .
lilly ann could not stop laughing at taylors incredulous face and stuttering attempts to find a reasonable explanation for what had happened .
she finally slapped his shoulder and dragged him to the house where frank turner had been carried to .
lets say hi to frank , she encouraged him , he is going to get a kick out of that one .
do you think we have to tell anyone ?
taylor asked shyly .
no , i dont think we have to tell them , everyone already knows , lilly ann laughed some more , you should have seen the faces as you came flying out of the barn on that roaring monster that everyone thought had been dead forever .
my hero on his rusty steed .
lilly ann danced around him fighting imaginary dragons .
frank turner was sore but already on his feet when taylor and lilly ann came to the house .
he took taylors hand and shook it vigorously .
both men looked long into each others eyes and shook their heads .
no words were necessary .
that night frank turner celebrated his new lease on life .
everyone for miles around was invited .
taylors rescue was wrapped into more stories that evening than there had been people present to whiteness it .
every time it was told it got bigger and wilder as the laughing and hollering rang through the valley .
so , what did really happen ?
one of the late arriving guests asked .
i dont really know , taylor said with a wink to lilly ann , maybe we have to wait until we can read it in the chronicle .
that night on his way to bed , taylor clapped off the lights and kissed lilly ann , good night .
it was just the way things were .
he had more important things to spend his time with than figuring out how every little thing worked .
chapter 15 i like you pretty good spring in the mountains , what a wonderful time of year .
taylor shook his head in disbelieve realizing that it had been a year since those fateful first weeks in oz .
hills and valleys were painted with new , bright green foliage , and meadows and slopes proudly displayed a multitude of brilliant wildflower colors and shapes .
winter had been fun , exciting and exhausting .
taylor had volunteered to help in the forest brigades to supply wood for fireplaces and stoves around town .
the physical labor had helped him get back into the best shape of his life .
he had enjoyed the activity outdoors , the camaraderie of men performing dangerous work , and the feeling of satisfaction after a long day of hard work .
as spring often does , it instilled a new desire in taylor , the desire for a place to call home , to unpack his bags for good , so to speak .
he wasnt quite sure what it was he was missing , until one afternoon while strolling around town and enjoying the brisk spring air , his strides unknowingly led him to the gates of schwyzer house .
john , what brings you here early in the afternoon , fritz neuwirt greeted him from his favorite rocking chair under the big oak tree .
i dont know really , taylor answered truthfully .
well , come on in , fritz invited him , you have to try this new schnapps ive been distilling in winter .
he grabbed a bottle with the infamous clear spirit from a shelf along with two small shot glasses .
hesitantly taylor followed the old mans waving gesture .
he had made the mistake before to accept fritzs hospitality too early in the day and he still could not remember how he had managed to get home that night .
with the best intentions of being more careful this time he opened the gate and joined fritz at his table .
here , try this , fritz put a full glass in front of taylor , tell me what you think .
prost , taylor offered the old austrian drinking cheer and cautiously took a sip .
mm , he nodded his head , this one is really good .
the aroma and richness of taste is amazing .
what did you put in there ?
ah , fritz shook his head , i cant tell you that .
keep guessing , youll figure it out eventually , he laughed .
taylor knew that fritz never gave up the secret ingredients of his , literally , inspired creations .
it was always a fun time to get together with a few friends for a guessing game around a bottle of schnapps .
may i ask you a personal question ?
taylor asked without really knowing where he was headed .
sure , john , fritz encouraged him , you are like family to me .
whats on your mind ?
i was wondering , taylor slowly pieced together his thoughts , what does a guy do around here when he wants to ask a girl to marry him ?
fritzs face lit up with glistering eyes .
he very much liked the thought to officially welcome taylor into his family .
even more so he was delighted to hear that lilly ann had finally found someone who was able to match her highflying spirit .
hm , let me see , he began thoughtfully , you have noticed , that there are not all that many rules and customs in this neck of the woods when it comes to personal relationships .
a lot of folks just move in together and stay , and that is that .
others have big ceremonies and parties that last several days or weeks .
when i came back to ask lilly anns grandmother to marry me i got on my knees and asked her to accept my ring .
i know now that she had a hard time not to burst into laughter at my sight , but she gracefully accepted and we were together until she passed a few years ago .
i guess , what i am saying is , fritz added after a short pause , its all about what you want to do .
call me old fashioned , taylor smiled , but the thought of formally proposing had crossed my mind .
i have no idea where to get an appropriate ring , though , short of learning to make one myself , he admitted .
i think i can help you there , fritz winked at him .
he ceremoniously opened the clasp of a thin gold chain that he was wearing under his shirt around his neck .
carefully pulling out the chain it revealed two small white gold rings dangling from it .
these are the rings my martha wore for almost sixty years , he caressed the gleaming metal with the balm of his hand , i had always hoped that lilly ann would one day put them to good use .
he took the first ring from the chain .
this is the ring i proposed with , he handed it to taylor , may it bring as much joy to your heart as it did me for so many years .
taylor was overwhelmed by the old mans generosity and the genuine affection he showed for him .
he convinced himself that it was the pollen in the air that made his eyes tear up .
thank you , he took the ring and shook fritzs hand , i dont know what else to say , but thank you .
no thanks necessary , fritz smiled at him , you make an old man very happy .
he got up from his chair and hugged taylor .
good luck with your proposal , son , he said , knowing lilly ann , im afraid you gon na need it , he chuckled .
taylor looked at him with a quizzical look .
dont worry , you gon na be all right , fritz encouraged him .
cheerfully unaware of the far reaching conversation of that afternoon lilly ann had the dinner table waiting for taylor at her house .
jenny tramborini from down the street had had herself an italian cookout and had invited everyone she knew to pick up dinner favorites before they got spoiled .
jenny never even thought about who would eat all the dishes that she liked so much to cook .
she just stood in her kitchen and shoved one pan after the other into her oversized oven until she ran out of ingredients to turn into delicacies .
magically , one after the other , the family sized food containers disappeared from her kitchen table before the evening turned into night .
nobody wanted to miss the chance to partake in the italian gourmet feast they were invited to .
so , lilly ann had truffled meat and mushroom lasagna warmed up in the oven and a nice bottle of red wine opened to breathe on the window sill .
the table was set with fancy tall wine glasses and a set of candles waiting to be lit .
she was happily humming the melody of an old nursery rhyme when taylor quietly came through the front door .
mm , was the first thing he said walking into the kitchen , something smells delicious .
he flared his nostrils to soak up the aroma .
did jenny have herself a cookout ?
i am disappointed that you didnt think that i had anything to do with the cooking , lilly ann feigned her annoyance , at least i was there in time to get the best dish she makes .
thank you so much for having such a wonderful cook as a friend , taylor laughed , i am sure though , that you could cook just as well if you wanted to .
not in a million years , lilly ann burst out laughing , dont get your hopes up .
if you want to eat well , we can go out , have someone else cook for us , or you can learn to cook yourself .
that art is clearly lost on me , thats for sure .
i will keep that in mind , taylor said jokingly .
really , lilly ann asked , whats on your mind to keep that in mind ?
lets eat first , taylor suggested , this really smells too delicious to be kept waiting .
together they served plates of lasagna to the table and taylor sliced french bread and arranged it in a basket , which he handed to lilly ann .
he brought the wine bottle from the window and poured two glasses for them before they sat down and enjoyed a home made feast that would have been fit for a kings table .
so , what did you have on your mind earlier ?
lilly ann asked lazily having made herself comfortable in her chair .
taylor pulled the ring out of his pocket , still hiding it from lilly ann .
he stood up from his chair and dropped down on his knee in front of her .
lilly ann , he looked into her surprised eyes , would you marry me ?
just like that , straight out , whats the use to dance around it , right ?
lilly anns answer was just as prompt and direct .
why , she asked , genuinely curious , why do you want to marry me ?
o.k. , that is not exactly the reaction i was hoping for , taylor was getting a bit insecure , but , fair enough .
i want to marry you because i love you .
you are the most inspired and warm and funny and thats not what i meant , lilly ann interrupted him , you dont have to sell me on myself , i know that i am fabulous , she smiled at him , why do you want to marry me ?
well , it makes me feel good to be around you .
you make my heart sing .
i dont even want to imagine a life without you , taylor was clearly a fish out of water at this point , i guess what i am trying to say , i want to spend the rest of my life with you .
he looked at her not quite sure if he was doing himself a great favor with his blunt offerings .
i see , lilly ann looked lovingly into his eyes , i love you john taylor , you know that , but these are not very good reasons to get married , at least not for me .
you already have all of this without getting married right here and now .
all right , taylor tried not to get defensive , what would be a good reason for you to get married ?
the soft warm glow that radiated from lilly anns face , her genuine loving smile and the tender kiss she pressed on taylors lips while she pulled him up from his knees soothed the upheaval of emotions welling up in taylor .
you know that i can not tell you that , she whispered into his ear , but i can hardly wait what you are going to find out from searching within yourself .
fritz neuwirt was not too surprised to see taylor slowly walk up the path to the tavern the next day .
john , you are back quickly , he greeted taylor , how are your wedding plans coming along ?
taylor looked at him with a sour smile .
dont ask , he groaned , she shot me down cold .
i guess i wont be needing this any time soon .
he handed the ring to fritz .
did she ask you why ? , fritz chuckled .
howd you know ?
taylor asked , am i missing something here ?
just a lucky guess , fritz answered , ive known lilly ann for all her life , and it just seemed like something she would do .
right , taylor scowled , you could have given me a heads up .
would it have helped ?
fritz smiled .
no , not really , taylor admitted , it just felt good for a moment to blame someone else .
he laughed and shook his head .
do you have any idea what she wanted to hear from me ?
fritz folded taylors hand over the ring .
you hold on to this , son , youll have use for it sooner than you might think right now , he encouraged , i cant really tell you what lilly ann is thinking .
im afraid my head would explode if i would try .
he paused for a moment to gather his thoughts , one thing you might want to keep in mind , john .
around here we dont have much patience for long term commitments .
that doesnt mean that people wont stay together for a long time , just take martha and i , but it is always a choice moment by moment and not a promise forever after .
leaving schwyzer house , taylor was wrapped up in mixed emotions and the slightly uncomfortable feeling that he was missing something important that was dangling right in front of his nose .
he was lost in thought turning the corner into the main street when he almost ran over willie , lilly anns kid brother .
whoa , brother , whereto so hasty ?
willie greeted taylor jovially slapping him on the shoulder , have you guys set a date yet ?
its tough to keep a secret around here , isnt it , taylor grinned , no date yet , though , i got a pretty frosty shoulder when i asked lilly ann yesterday .
welcome to the club , willie laughed , figuring out how to ask a girl to marry them is one of the trickiest challenges for any young lad .
them females are just so complex and they hold out until you are completely in tune with them .
its good though , most of the guys wouldnt know half of what they know about themselves if it werent for girls insisting on them to find out .
he looked at taylor with a quizzical look .
i always thought it would be different with lilly ann , he wondered , i thought lets have a party to celebrate with everyone .
would have done the trick .
i like you pretty good , lets see how it goes , or something along those lines .
shows how much i know , right ?
he squeezed taylors shoulders .
youll figure it out , we are all rooting for you , he said and went on his way .
thanks willie , taylor answered , you dont even know how much you helped .
a party , taylor thought by himself , right , and i gave her the forever after , until death does us apart speech .
really shows how much i know .
he had to chuckle at the realization that again his past had caught up with him and tripped him up .
coming home from his visit with fritz , taylor found lilly ann in her studio , water coloring the newest issue of the chronicle .
hey beautiful , he wrapped his arm around her from behind and kissed her softly on the neck .
not now , she purred , dont you see that i am working ?
she made it sound much more like , where have you been all day , i missed you .
what are your plans a week from saturday ?
taylor whispered into her ear .
let me check my social calendar , lilly ann joked , what did you have in mind ?
well , i did some thinking today , taylor tried to follow the stream of right words without getting in the way , and a couple of elves helped me along the way .
elves , really ?
lilly ann was royally amused by taylors attempt to be inconspicuous , what did they have to say ?
translated into plain english , i think they said that i shouldnt be such a dickhead , taylor grinned at lilly anns burst of laughter .
so , i thought we should have a party , his heart was leaping into his throat , to tell everyone that we love each other and that we belong together and that we will be married , he took a deep breath , until further notice .
and without really knowing that he spoke he added , to share our joy , i guess is what i wanted to say .
i think that is a wonderful idea , john , lilly ann pulled him close to herself , and my new name shall be lilly ann taylor , she kissed him passionately on the lips , until further notice .
tell your elves that they done good .
taylor had never slept better in his life .
he woke up in a bed , still heavy with the scent of his most beloved wife to be .
brisk air was wallowing through the open window and the birds in the trees outside were outdoing each other with ever new and creative melodies and sounds .
he could hear activity stirring in the house , which to him was soothing and exciting at the same time , always promising a new day with new adventures and surprises .
for the first time in his life he did not worry about tomorrow , or today , or anything about his past .
was life really supposed to feel that good ?
the big day was still a week away but already the whole town had come alive with preparations for celebrating the wedding of one of its most cherished citizens .
lilly anns never fading smile , her undying lighthearted radiance and her unadulterated love of life had touched each and every one on countless occasions and was a living beacon of light for anyone on the path to the inner realms of the souls .
now it was time to return the favor , and to have royal fun along the way .
since none of the eating establishments would have been able to accommodate the crowd that was expected to attend , the park behind sudbury was selected as the perfect location for the ceremony and the banquet that was to follow .
already , young men had started to erect a platform so that everyone would be able to see the main event and for the entertainment at the ensuing party .
musicians and entertainers of all genres had signed up to have their moment in the light at this very special occasion .
one thing became very obvious , it promised to be a very long night for the whole town .
taylor finally convinced himself that his growling stomach and other bodily needs warranted to be addressed , so he lazily rolled out of bed and slipped into his favorite bathrobe .
he tended to the inevitable before climbing down the creaking staircase to see if the kitchen would provide the sustenance he was craving .
curious at the sound of an unfamiliar voice conversing with his mate he peeked through the door .
it was not unusual for lilly ann to have visitors in the morning but the sight of the figure sitting in a chair next to the window made him gasp for air .
the tall slender woman seemed to fade in and out of focus right before his eyes .
short cut dark brown hair adorned by a thin reef of braided silver strands framed a face that was foreign and familiar at once .
her flowing dress , billowing in a breeze which taylor could not feel , was sewn of a fabric similar to the one taylor had wrapped himself in , but changing its color from red to orange to green as he looked upon it .
lilly ann turned around from the stove where she had been tending to a teakettle .
she had to put up a mighty fight to not laugh out loud at the bewildered look on taylors face .
cut it out mom , she scolded the older woman , dont scare him away just yet .
they both laughed and hugged as the womans appearance solidified as if nothing unusual had transpired in the last few moments .
john , lilly ann pulled taylor closer with an apologetic look , say hi to my mom .
mom , this is john .
isnt he adorable ?
john , ive heard so much about you , the woman said , please forgive me , the sunlight this early in the morning sometimes plays tricks on our eyes and makes me look all weird .
she took taylors hand in both of hers , i am lilly grace , lilly anns mother .
taylor had to swallow hard a few times before he was able to muster a reply , the pleasure is all mine , lilly grace .
lilly ann had made you an enigma wrapped in a riddle every time your name came up .
i always wondered why that was .
he took a deep breath , would you excuse me for a moment while i put on some clothes more appropriate for company at the breakfast table ?
without waiting for an answer he fled the scene to the upstairs bedroom to regain his composure and bring the carrousel to a stop that was spinning out of control in his head .
are you all right , love ?
lilly ann stuck her head through the doorframe .
of course , taylor tried to convince himself while he continued to get dressed , of course , why would i not be all right ?
you could have given me a bit of a warning though .
what did i see downstairs anyway , what was that ?
there was just a hint of panic in his voice .
dont be alarmed about it , lilly ann tried to soothe him , come with me , mom can explain it better than i would .
taylor felt a lot more secure and in control wearing the proper attire for a first visit with his soon to be mother in law .
he was not quite sure though , if he really wanted to know the nature of the vision he had had earlier .
you know what , he said to lilly ann , i dont need to know everything right this red hot minute .
why dont we go downstairs and have a nice meal with your mother and get to know each other like ordinary people do .
there is no rush .
she is your mother and you obviously love her and she loves you .
that is enough reason for me to want to love her .
you will never know how big of a man you are , john taylor , lilly ann replied quietly , thats one more reason why i love you .
hand in hand they went downstairs to have a delightful breakfast and an engaging conversation with their newly arrived guest .
hey brother , willie greeted taylor who was sitting a bit forlorn on the front steps of the house .
the wedding preparations were in full swing and more often than not taylor found himself being in the way with no idea how to contribute .
it had become very obvious to him that this was a womans affair and that a masculine touch to the proceedings was neither welcome nor appreciated .
he wasnt complaining , festivities of that nature had always filled him with more anxiety than seemed appropriate , and though in the past he had been able to find ways out of participating for the most part , this time he was billed as one of the main attractions .
he was determined to make the best of it and to keep his focus on the reason he had suggested to get married in the first place .
just the thought of calling lilly ann my wife made his heart sing and his eyes filled with tears of joy .
did they throw you out of the house or did you escape on your own ?
willie teased with his broad boyish grin .
if i only knew , taylor answered with a sigh , i know i shouldnt say this , because lilly ann is having so much fun , but ill be glad when well have the house back to ourselves .
dont worry , willie laughed , that makes you and every other guy who gets hitched .
them females are having the time of their lives with no males allowed , he slapped taylors shoulder , so i guess its willie to the rescue .
the guys are waiting for us at magic mountain for your bachelors party .
you didnt think we would miss out on a chance to have our own fun , did you ?
you what ?
taylor had not even considered that this tradition had survived in this remote area .
bachelors parties in the southern cities were usually drunken treks through strings of gentlemens clubs or worse .
to translate this tradition into the customs of flugerton sure seemed like an interesting proposition .
sure , willie got all excited , weve got a couple kegs of beer and a keg of wine , the pork has been roasting on the spit since last night and the entertainment shall remain a surprise .
let me tell lilly ann where we are heading and that she shouldnt wait up for you .
well take her van to drive out to the bottom of the hills .
well walk up the rest of the way .
he disappeared into the house just to come out running a few moments later with several voices yelling after him .
he had grabbed a warm sweater for taylor on his way out .
what was that all about ?
taylor wanted to know .
oh , the ladies sometimes dont want to be reminded of the obvious , willie laughed , at least not of the obvious as i see it .
come on , lets go .
they both climbed into the van and willie took the drivers seat .
not wanting to further flame his sisters wrath he cautiously drove out into the street and out of town .
magic mountain had been used as the site for major celebrations and festivals for as long as people could remember .
it was close enough to be reached by foot in a couple of hours but was far enough out of town so that the huge bonfires that burned at summer and winter solstice and other occasions would not endanger any buildings or structures .
the path that led up from the street to the festival grounds was well worn from thousands of visitors who had climbed the incline throughout the decades .
how many people are you expecting to show up ?
taylor asked at the sight of dozens of torches lining the sides of the gravel road .
thats hard to say , willie replied , usually its between fifty and a hundred but with your claim to fame i am sure there will be many more .
we brought food and drink for about two hundred and its just a short ride into town if we need more .
now thats what i call a party , taylor exclaimed .
his eyes grew wider and wider as they approached the festival meadow .
it was hard to gauge the number of men already assembled but it was clear that willies estimates were no exaggeration .
four large bonfires were burning already , one on each corner of the designated party area and long rows of makeshift tables and benches had been set up in a huge u shape .
the place was buzzing with activity and excitement .
a number of musicians were assembled on the far end of the square , engaged in a loud and wild jam session , which drew a hollering and shouting audience .
as far as taylor could see there were no women present .
a celebration of the male spirit , willie was reading taylors question off his face .
he jumped onto one of the tables and let out a fierce whistle .
the guest of honor has arrived , he proclaimed , seizing the moment of attention he had bought himself , lets show him how we celebrate when there is really something to celebrate .
the cheers and whistles and clapping was reverberating from the close by mountains and it seemed as if the stars in the sky had turned up their light a notch .
taylor was handed around from table to table and from group to group .
it took him the better part of an hour to cross the meadow to his designated place at the head of the table .
as soon as he had sat down an endless barrage of drinking toasts ensued .
taylor had to endure more bad jokes and side blows to his masculine qualities than in his entire career in the military .
it was all in good fun though and time seemed to fly and stand still at once .
it got dark early and more torches were placed alongside the perimeter of the meadow to cast an eerie light onto the scene .
as if on cue the noise of the multitude of conversations suddenly subsided as a virtuoso violinist sounded the first notes of the interlude to a classical piece of music .
the mens eyes did not turn in the direction of the music though , as in the shadows behind the big fire to the left a white figure could be seen , swaying softly to the rhythm of the music .
the growing intensity of the melody drew the dancer closer who could be clearly identified as a young woman now .
her face was covered with a feathered mask and as she stepped in front of the fire the silhouette of her bare body was cast onto the sheer material of the cloak she was wearing .
her expressive sensual dance followed the story that the violin told , a story of old days and young love , of soft lustful purrs and wild roars of passion .
the violin screamed its heart out , as the girls dance grew wilder .
she had moved between the towering fires and her dress whirled around her like a tornado of light .
her pulsing movements were a prayer to the earth to set her free of the bondage of gravity .
lower and lower she crouched until all that was left of her was a convulsing billowing white cloud in the darkness .
all of a sudden the wild rhythm paused and to the sound of a single note that could have drawn tears from a rock , the fabric parted over the girls back and she rose in all her uncovered glory .
she seemed to grow to the heavens with fiery streaks of light painted onto her skin and as the music returned to a wild but lighter and happier mood she danced out of sight until she was swallowed by the darkness .
with the last note of the violin absolute silence befell the breathless crowd .
it was taylor who managed to regain control of his limbs and banished the spell .
his first clap was followed by a thundering applause and cheering and wild outbursts of primal joy .
although the dance of the white phantom was definitely the highlight of the evening entertainment she would not remain last girl to take the stage .
throughout the evening young dancers in exotic and , more often than not , revealing costumes would appear from the dark and leave without a trace after their performances had ended .
sensual , wild , funny , silly and flat out erotic displays of female expression were offered to honor the man at the center of attention .
after one of the more explicit numbers taylor turned to willie .
so , why are the girls doing this ?
he asked , dont understand me wrong , im not complaining , but where i come from you would have to fork over a good handful of hard earned credits to get a girl do a performance like these .
willie could only laugh and shook his head .
are you kidding me ?
he replied in disbelieve , the girls love this .
you would not believe how many life long relationships started with the girl dancing for the guys .
its a personal expression , a calling card , and an art form just as any other .
you should have seen the show when kevin and gary got married , he winked at taylor .
hey look , one of willies friends pointed at the space between the fires .
taylor turned around expecting to see yet another dance performance , but the figure standing motionless between the fires , clad in a white linen suit was obviously no woman .
dad !
willie jumped from his seat and ran towards the man .
i knew you wouldnt miss a good show , he exclaimed as they hugged , come on , you have to meet john .
he hugged his fathers shoulder and led him to taylor who had gotten up from the bench .
dad , this is john taylor , the man who fell out of the sky , the man who they call geronimo , the man who will marry your daughter , willie had a grand time making the introduction as formal as possible , john , this is my and lilly anns father , michael angelo .
i am so excited that you were able to make it , dad .
it is great to meet you john , michael said with a soft but intense voice , i heard so much good about you .
you are a life giving phenomenon for this community .
the pleasure is mine , sir , taylor answered sincerely , i hope i can live up to the praise you have heard .
why dont you join us for a drink ?
willie has outdone himself organizing this party .
right , michael smiled , i bet he told five people the day and time and expected for everything else to take care of itself , he ruffled willies hair like a little boys .
what are you talking about ?
willie laughed , i told at least seven people and i personally picked up john at lilly anns house , thats got ta count for something , right ?
the rest of the night was filled with amusing stories about taylors journey to flugerton , more drinks and food and music and a myriad of jovial lighthearted well wishes for the groom .
taylor was amazed how little information he could gather about lilly anns father despite the many questions he had asked .
not wanting to be too direct or insistent he relaxed and enjoyed the building curiosity .
something more to look forward too , he thought .
the morning sun had already lifted the veils of darkness and painted the mountain tops with broad strokes of orange and red when a long trek of vehicles of all kinds , engulfed in a cloud of laughter and lively voices , rolled slowly into town , just to disperse into all directions to deliver the happy party guest to their homes .
i will never forget this night , taylor said to willie as they parted , thank you so much !
ah , dont mention it , brother , willie waved him off , im glad you had fun , i sure did .
next time its my turn .
he laughed and turned back to the street to walk home .
earlier they had lost sight of michael angelo in the tumult of leaving the festival grounds but willie had just shrugged , dont worry , hell be there in the morning .
taylor decided that this was not the time to find out what that had meant either .
he quietly sneaked into the house and up the stairs .
as he slipped into the bed lilly ann greeted him with closed eyes and a sleep drunken voice , did you like the girls ?
she asked and smiled knowingly .
yes , i liked what i saw , taylor answered truthfully , but i really love this .
he wrapped his arms around lilly ann and pulled her closer .
she answered with a soft moan of agreement as they both fell asleep .
the term perfect unfolding seemed like a crass understatement for the proceedings on may twelve of the year twenty three seventeen in flugerton .
a crisp morning breeze had swept the valley clean of all traces of night fog , before it subsided to give way to the warmth and light of the early summer sun .
glistering dew nourished meadows and flowers to a supple light green , sprinkled with bright dots of yellow , white , red and blue .
all sorts of birds and critters alike had caught on to the festive mood that had descended like a blanket onto the town and displayed their most beautiful colors and sounds and play .
life itself in its ever expanding glory provided the stage for the celebrations to come .
the female members of the brides family had gathered early in the morning in lilly anns house to help her with her personal preparations .
the dress , hair , makeup , perfume , flowers , jewelry and a hundred more details had been thought of and arranged long before and awaited their application at just the right time .
everything fell into place , no rush and no second thoughts .
a family with nothing but love for each other , vibrating in perfect harmony to draw joy from each other and beam it into the world .
taylor , who had been exiled from the house a day earlier and had set up his temporary quarters at willies pad atop the schwyzer house tavern , was surrounded by the men of the family to help him into the elaborate wedding suit that michael angelo had surprised him with .
together they enjoyed a late breakfast and a leisurely exchange of the latest stories from around town .
michael had been chosen to lead the wedding ceremony , so he left early to see about last minute arrangements on the sudbury grounds , which many busy hands had transformed into a magical garden of color and light .
the sun had completed almost half of its daily path across the sky when it was time for taylor and his best men to leave the house for sudbury .
willie had borrowed a car from a friend that swiftly took the grooms party to their destination .
a crowd had already gathered in the garden abuzz with conversations and laughter , enjoying the various snacks and refreshments that were offered on silver trays by boys and girls in colorful costumes and tall feathered hats .
taylor was led around the guests to join michael angelo on stage with his friends to await the arrival of the bride .
a murmur went through the crowd as the tall double doors at sudburys main building slowly opened and a woman in a swiss guards uniform stepped outside , knocked her lance three times on the ground and proclaimed , madams and sirs , i present the bride !
to the sound of a fanfare and gasps from the wedding guests an otherworldly figure appeared in the passage .
completely covered from her shoulders down in a red and purple cloak which seemed alive with images from her own and flugertons past , her face hidden behind a veil lilly ann majestically followed her guardians lead .
the masses parted for the approaching bride revealing a path of pink and white rose petals leading up to the stage .
as she stepped onto the colorful carpet she hesitated for a moment as if changing her mind .
she looked at one of her brides maids and nodded her head .
both of the girls walked up to her side and took hold of the veil and the clasp , which held the cloak in place .
they slowly lifted the veil over lilly anns head and parted the cloak in front of her and back over her shoulders .
freed of the burden of ceremonial obligations lilly ann squealed in delight , kicked a few rose petals into the air and skipped barefoot through a cloud of pink and white leaves towards the stage .
she twirled in her short white dress , sparkling like a bowl of diamonds , and cart wheeled through the parting crowd .
arriving in front of the stage she did not make any effort to look for the stairs .
she just spread her arms wide and with a look to her side she commanded two young men to lift her up onto the platform .
she blew a few kisses into the crowd before turning around to face the royally amused wedding party that awaited her .
an entrance truly worthy of my daughter , michael angelo smiled , shall we begin ?
lilly grace along with the rest of the brides entourage had taken their places on stage next to the groomsmen to form a half circle around taylor and lilly ann .
friends , family , lilly ann , john , michael drew everyones attention to the events on stage , we have gathered today to bear witness to the age old ritual of a woman and a man proclaiming their love for each other in front of god and man .
let the sun see the beauty of the couple before us , let the wind hear the truth of their words .
let the earth they stand on feel the lightness of their hearts and let the birds in the sky sing the joy of their souls .
he looked around the place to let his words sink in .
then he continued , john , do you want to say something ?
love drunk and filled with joy beyond description taylor had to swallow hard a few times before he could speak .
a silver bird dropped me out of the sky , for my darkest night to give way to my brightest day .
i drowned in your spirit , lilly ann , your beauty and your grace .
the truth of your soul cast the shadows out of my life .
today i choose to put my heart into your hands .
today i choose to be yours , and i am eternally grateful for your choice to be mine .
without averting his eyes that were locked onto hers he reached for lilly anns hand .
this ring was once a symbol of love for one you loved and one you still love .
wear it as a sign that todays choice lives on until we choose otherwise , he ended his vow with a boyish smile .
taylor kissed lilly anns hand , i love you , and slipped her grandmothers wedding band onto her finger .
he wanted to forever stay in the beam of light that lilly anns face shone onto him .
taylor , john taylor , lilly ann could not help herself but to tease him a little even in this sacred moment .
the crowd held their breaths in anticipation of what her words would be .
would she stay true to her never fading lightness and fun loving nature ?
would she dare taylor to join her in abrahamsters ways ?
sensing and enjoying the suspense that was becoming almost unbearable , lilly ann unwrapped her widest smile and with clear and steady voice she announced , i like you pretty good .
lets see how it goes .
the crowd burst into cheers of relief and appreciation .
lilly ann nodded to her mother who carried a small wooden box , which she opened to offer the content to her daughter .
lilly ann took taylors hand and with a steady gaze into his eyes she said , john , wear this magic ring as a token of my love , not as a promise for what will be forevermore , but as a touch stone to remind us of the love we feel today .
with these simple words she slipped a plain wide band of silvery metal onto taylors finger .
i love you , she whispered into his ear before she passionately kissed him on his lips to the applause and cheers of everyone who had watched the heart warming scene .
this was the longest day of my life , lilly ann said to taylor when they found themselves in the privacy of their bedroom , after an exhausting parade of drinking toasts and well wishes , more food than they ever had wanted to see in their lives , and enough to drink to replenish a small water starved desert .
the jugglers and singers , the fiddle players and dancers , the clowns and comedians , fireworks to prokofievs violin concerto number one , the whole town had had a blast putting on a show that no one would forget for a long time to come .
how much bliss can a man or a woman endure in one day ?
they sure made an honest attempt to find out just how much .
it was my happiest day too so far , she added , falling asleep in taylors embrace .
chapter 16 goodbye papa are you going to stay around for some time ?
lilly ann asked her mother a few days later at the breakfast table .
i guess i will , lilly grace said with an urgent undertone in her voice that made lilly ann look up , your grandfather is going to make his transition soon .
i want to be there when he is ready .
i havent talked to him since the wedding , lilly ann said surprised , he isnt ill or anything , is he ?
no , no , lilly grace shook her head and smiled , you know how old he is , there is just not much desire for more life in him anymore .
he told me yesterday that he had been ready for a long time but he was hanging in there because he did not want to miss your wedding .
now it seems that he is going to bask in that reverberation a little longer , but his time has certainly come .
i bet he cant wait to get on that ride , lilly ann said excited .
you know , dear , he has been very happy and content for many years , lilly grace contemplated , its going to be more like , oops , so this is what it feels like rather than that big roller coaster high flying ride that some folks have when they go .
what are my favorite girls up to ?
taylor put on the charm as he walked into the kitchen .
papa is going to make his transition soon , lilly ann said cheerfully .
he is going to do what ?
taylor was not quite sure he had understood her , you mean he is going to die ?
mhm , lilly ann nodded between bites from her buttered toast , mom says it cant be long .
isnt that exciting ?
im not sure i understand your enthusiasm , taylor frowned , i always enjoyed having the old man around .
oh , everyone does , lilly grace said , but it is not up to us to decide for dad .
he is slowly withdrawing his focus in this world and the promise of relaxing into the pure positive energy that he really is , entices him more than squeezing just a little bit more out of this lifetime .
i am still having a bit of trouble wrapping my brain around the idea that death is something predictable like walking through a door , taylor confessed , for me it seems more like jumping into a dark hole with no idea whats on the other end if there is one at all .
how can you be so certain of something that you really can not know ?
but you can , lilly ann said unimpressed by taylors doubt , have you never had a conversation with one of your dead friends ?
i talk to grandma all the time .
she is so funny , cracks me up every time .
how can you know that this is not just you imagination talking back and forth ?
wouldnt that feel exactly the same way ?
taylor did not give in so easily .
nah , lilly ann replied confidently , i know myself and i know grandma , the things she sometimes says definitely dont come from my brain .
im not that wise , but she always has been and still is .
you know john , lilly grace offered her help , whenever you think about someone you knew or even someone you just know of , who has gone back , their essence is immediately summoned to you .
they are always willing and eager to communicate in whatever form you are able to understand .
sometimes you can receive answers to your questions as intuition or gut feeling , sometimes you might hear something in a song or in something someone else tells you that strikes a chord with you .
often times you might not even be aware of the question or the answer , but it is always given .
the thing you must remember in order to have a direct meaningful conversation is the fact that this person is not exactly the personality anymore that you might have known .
by returning into the stream of pure positive energy they left behind all thoughts of resistance , be it doubt or fear or anger or grief .
so , if your friend , who you want to contact , was on the pessimistic or angry side for most of his life , you might not recognize him right away .
but if you remember the essence of that person and the reason why you were attracted to him in the first place you will very quickly recognize him and discover that they are as alive now as you are , maybe even more so .
taylor shook his head with raised eyebrows as he joined them at the breakfast table .
i dont know , he said still skeptical , all of this sounds a bit too weird for my taste .
but , ill take your word for it , for right now anyway .
he poured a cup of coffee and helped himself to a bite to eat .
you dont have to take our word for it , lilly ann encouraged him , we are going to visit papa after we are finished here .
wan na join us ?
i am sure he would be happy to see you too .
fritz neuwirt was sitting in his favorite chair under the big oak tree in the guest garden of the schwyzer house tavern waiting patiently for his guests to arrive .
hello , if it isnt my favorite daughter and granddaughter , he exclaimed as they walked through the gate , john , it is so good to see you too .
very funny papa , lilly ann scolded the old man jokingly , thats a big compliment considering that i am your only granddaughter and mom is your only daughter , she laughed .
that is true , fritz admitted , but you are my favorite granddaughter , he emphasized winking his eyes at her .
good morning daddy , lilly grace hugged her father and kissed him gently on the cheek , i see you are soaking up some more sunshine and moonshine too it seems , she added with a wink at the clear liquid in a shot glass on the table .
oh , fritz waved her off , this is just a little sample from my last batch , came out really good too , he grinned showing two healthy rows of pearly whites .
listen ladies , fritz said , would the two of you be terribly inconvenienced if i had a word with john from man to man ?
of course not , lilly grace answered , we have some business at sudbury anyway .
wan na meet back here for lunch in a couple of hours ?
that would be nice , said taylor and waved them good bye .
pull up a chair , john , fritz started , wan na try my latest concoction too ?
no thanks , taylor laughed , its a little too early in the day for your lively spirit for me .
i guess it is , fritz joined into the laughter .
there was a moment of silence between the two men .
you heard about my travel plans , fritz picked up the conversation , havent you ?
yes i have , taylor answered , and to be quite frank , i dont get it .
you are healthy and strong .
you have a wonderful family surrounding you .
you have a carefree life that most people could only wish for , and you are thinking of leaving all of this behind for the shaky prospect of of what exactly ?
ah , i love your passion and your desire to understand , john , fritz patted the younger mans arm , when i look at you it is almost as if i looked in a mirror many years ago , so many questions , so much to figure out , so much to remember .
every day a new adventure , every day a small victory over boredom and mediocracy .
dont you ever loose that , it is precious priceless .
fritz sank back into his chair to catch his breath .
you know what the difference between you and me is ?
he asked without waiting for an answer , you open your eyes in the morning and you see a blue sky that needs to be conquered , an old engine that needs to be fixed , an engineering concept that needs to be understood and improved upon , a philosophical idea that needs to be contemplated and expanded .
there are endless challenges and endless satisfaction for you around every corner , and you go for it , grab it by the horns , own it and feel the delight in the process .
ah , ever expanding life itself , it doesnt get better than that .
taylor nodded in agreement eager to hear the other part of the equation .
when i wake up in the morning and open my eyes , fritz continued after a pensive second , i want nothing more than to soar beyond the sky without the boundaries of gravity , i want to run with the wind without moving my legs , i want to drink sunlight itself and taste the glory of all there is .
it is almost as if i suddenly ran out of patience for , he was searching for the right words , i guess patience for time itself .
both men nodded their heads contemplating the words that had to be spoken before they could be understood .
you know fritz , taylor spoke first , when i think of you , i keep forgetting that you have been around almost twice as long as i have .
i cant even begin to imagine the things you have seen and done .
as much as i dislike the idea , but it is conceivable that at some point one can have his fill and be ready for something new .
maybe i am just selfishly opposing the idea of not being able to have our invigorating chats anymore .
well , nothing wrong with that , my friend , fritz agreed , you have no idea how lucky i count myself to have had you as my friend for the last year .
now that i think about it , you showing up , especially with the connection we had from my reports that brought you here , might have been the strongest reason for me to stick around for that long .
i really got a kick out of seeing lilly ann get married , you know .
i was always wondering how she would be able to find a man brave enough to walk by her side .
she is quite a little hurricane sometimes , well , most of the time .
they both laughed knowingly .
i just had a fabulous idea , fritz said with new fire in his eyes , i am going to proof to you without any possibility of doubt , that we live on after we sign off here and that a direct and meaningful exchange of information and ideas between the two worlds is not only possible , but is the norm rather than the exception .
all right , taylor answered a bit skeptically , you are on .
what do i need to do to make this happen ?
nothing , fritz winked at him , just think of me once in a while .
remember our talks and the affection we feel for each other .
im telling you , this is going to be so much fun .
goodbye papa , lilly ann hugged fritz as they parted after having spent the afternoon together .
they had enjoyed long talks of past times and plans for the future , of old friends and new family , of things long gone and things to come .
the tone of his voice and the expression on his face continued to change .
a soft glow had settled upon him and his words were directed as much inwards as they were addressing his visitors .
his features seemed almost translucent and the touch of his skin felt like an afterthought to the person he once was .
they all said their goodbyes without drama or hesitation .
last words had been spoken , last tender gestures exchanged .
the time had come to end this particular conversation , anticipating to pick up the next one right where they had left off .
as the door to the garden closed behind them their hearts were filled with love and peace and faith and the undeniable knowing that all was well indeed .
there was no other way than for fritz neuwirts funeral to start and end at the schwyzer house tavern .
true to his wishes , his earthly shell had been cremated at the dawn of the new day , privately , with only his daughter and her husband present .
after the quick and unceremonious procedure they had carefully placed his ashes into a porcelain urn and brought it to the schwyzer house where they had put it up in his favorite spot under the tree .
by noon a lively colorful crowd had gathered to pay their respects and to participate in fritz neuwirts last party .
beer and pretzels were being offered to the guests , one of the many traditions fritz had brought from his native country .
hannah sat under the tree next to the urn and played fritzs favorite alpine tunes on her accordion and it seemed that it would not have taken long until the first bold souls would have started to dance to the music .
with the sun high in the sky lilly grace went to the tree and picked up the urn .
friends , she demanded everyones attention , lets give back to the earth what is hers .
she cradled the urn in her arms and with michael angelo , lilly ann , willie and taylor at her side she led a procession of funeral guests out into the streets of flugerton .
at every street corner they would stop and gather around .
the urn was handed from one to another and everyone took a handful of the ashes and released it into the wind while recalling their favorite personal memories of fritz neuwirt .
stop by stop his life was recounted , from the time when he left the old country in search of adventure and a better life , his passage on the freight ship that brought him to america , his adventures as a mail runner and package courier which eventually led him into the ozark mountains , his first steps into a for him strange and foreign society , his courtship for martha and his many contributions to the town and region throughout the years .
personal , private , funny , hilarious , profound and profane , just like the man himself the stories were offered to be remembered and repeated .
laughing and cheering and candid expressions of love and appreciation accompanied the tales .
heated humorous discussions erupted about trivial facts when memory served differing pictures to people who shared a common experience .
each one of them was eager to conjure up images and sounds as lifelike as possible to recreate a colorful picture for all others to remember .
thus was the honoring of history in flugerton .
stories of people , passed down through generations , meaningful only in the context of the ideas that lived on long after their bodies had perished .
that night at the tavern anyone would have been hard pressed to make out the difference to any other busy night .
food and drink were served in abundance and the conversations were lively and loud .
people were obviously enjoying themselves and their company in this place that fritz neuwirt had built .
the stories and jokes that were told that night had a common theme though .
somewhere in them , around them or associated with them was fritz , having fun with them all over again .
as midnight drew closer lilly ann climbed up on one of the chairs and tapped her glass with the back of a knife .
as the crowd turned towards her and calmed down a bit her clear voice was heard to the last place in the house .
grandpa says , hi , she said , and he thanks you all for coming .
he enjoyed all the stories that were being told about him , especially those that were made up .
he says , he loves this town and its people .
he appreciates every one of you for making his life a bit more special every day .
he is having a lot of fun .
him and grandma are having a thing going again , whatever that means where they are now .
he says that abrahamster is all over the place goofing off wherever he goes .
he loves the little fella more than ever .
he promises that he will be around from time to time and that we should leave his rocking chair right where it is .
who knows who will need it next .
she took a glass filled with the best schnapps in the house from a tray that was offered to her and lifted it high into the air .
heres to you papa , she said as she drank to the cheers of everyone around .
lilly ann stepped down from the chair and joined taylor at their table .
do you have any idea what grandpa could have meant when he said , tell john to not forget our pact .
what is that all about ?
she asked with raised eyebrows .
taylor just shook his head and laughed , its nothing , really .
when did he tell you about that ?
just before my little speech , lilly ann said as if that was the most natural thing in the world .
oh , taylor just replied and slowly nodded his head .
throughout the next months taylor was known to frequently disappear into the woods on an almost invisible winding path , which led to a small crooked shed in the middle of nowhere .
without much contemplation he would tend to several tanks filled with mash of various fruits , nuts and grains .
he would stir the brew , add sugar and spices , mix the content of certain varieties , taste and smell and wait .
he did not know how he knew , but he knew when the time was right to pile logs under the still and light the fires .
he filled the copper kettle with the mash and waited in joyful anticipation for the spirit to rise , to be cooled off in the winding tubes and , in the end , to be filled into glass flasks and bottles that stood patiently on shelves all around the small room , awaiting the fulfillment of their purpose .
one sip from the magic potion was all the proof taylor needed .
he first smiled and then laughed out loud , for what he tasted was nothing short of fritz neuwirts best .
the old man had kept his word after all .
the realization trickled slowly through taylors being and warmed his soul to the core .
if there was , as it seemed , life after death , why not enjoy life before death to the fullest and make the most out of it .
that old dog , taylor said over and over , shaking his head , laughing with tears pouring down his cheeks , fritz , wherever you are , i know you can hear me .
thank you !
with eternity and all at your disposal , i would have thought you had better things to do than to teach me new tricks .
i sure do appreciate it , though .
taylor could have sworn that he heard the old mans distinctive quiet laughter and his familiar voice , what could be better than this , john ?
you are welcome , any time .
chapter 17 lets get fizzical john , good to see you , just the man i was looking for , lilly grace said as she peeked into the tool shed behind the house one early afternoon .
a few days had passed since the memorable funeral of fritz neuwirt and life had slowly settled down to something that could almost be called normal .
taylor had gone back to creating artwork from all kinds of metal objects that he found all over town .
the backyard started to look like an art gallery and word had gotten around that there was a new talent in town whose work waited to be shown and appreciated .
lilly grace was wearing one of her flowing multi colored dresses which always made her look as if she wasnt quite where one would expect her to be .
there seemed to be an optical illusion brought on by the fabric or the color .
maybe it really was just light reflecting off it that tricked the eyes of the observer .
what can i do for my favorite mother in law ?
taylor asked her as he kissed her cheek , you look lovely as ever .
well , thank you , lilly grace smiled at him , i thought there was something i could do for you .
and what would that be ?
taylor asked her innocently .
hm , lilly grace took her time to approach the issue from the right angle , you know , ever since we met for the first time , i can almost see the question marks all over your face when we are in the same room .
i appreciate your tact and consideration of mine and lilly anns feelings , but i think the time has come that you ask the questions that are bubbling inside of you .
i promise , i wont mind , and ill answer every single one of them as accurately as i possibly can .
taylor put down the pair of pliers he was clutching and looked at lilly grace a bit embarrassed .
was i that obvious ?
he asked .
lilly graces smile was answer enough .
you are right , taylor was glad that his curiosity was going to be satisfied , when i walked into the kitchen that first day you were here , i saw you drifting in and out of focus .
i knew right away that this was not the effect of light reflections or anything like that , but i sure dont know what i saw .
lilly ann obviously didnt mind or find it unusual , so i just let it go , he took a deep breath , what did i see then ?
he asked directly .
drifting in and out of focus , lilly grace repeated taylors words , is actually a pretty accurate description of what you saw .
ok , taylor interrupted her , but people dont usually do that .
i dont believe that you are a ghost or an angel simple because i dont believe in either , so who , what , how ?
he had a hard time even formulating an actual question .
you are right , lilly grace had an amused note in her voice , i most certainly am none of the above .
but more to the point , she continued a little more serious , i am a woman , just like you are a man .
i wanted to get that out of the way .
you have seen the abraham material on the lilly book and the abrahamster drawings and all the wise ideas and concepts they offer .
what do you think would happen if someone after studying all of this would set aside all physically focused desire and tried to completely allow the connection with their inner being in a constant two way communication ?
they would die ?
taylors answer was as much a question as a suggestion .
hm , interesting conclusion , lilly grace looked at him surprised , you do have a good grasp on the abraham teachings .
to be honest , when michael and i first made a conscious attempt to achieve full uplink , as we call it , we were aware of the possibility that your suggestion might be correct .
it took us many months to work through that little curveball .
she laughed and looked at taylor to see if he was still with her .
we did not have the slightest idea what we were getting ourselves into .
the only thing we both knew was that we wanted to know and to understand beyond the conventional avenues of learning and reasoning .
we also had complete faith in the principle of wellbeing .
we didnt know what we were doing but we knew we were safe no matter where this adventure would lead us .
taylors eyes were wide open from suspense and he had a hard time remembering to breathe , but he still managed to say , go on , please .
our progress was slow , but deliberate , lilly grace continued , first we noticed that our physical lives improved far beyond what we would have ever thought possible or even desirable .
we were happy to a point that even the slightest dip in our vibration caused an immediate reflex within our thought process to regain our usual composure .
you should have seen our faces when that happened , it was almost comical .
she contorted her face and shook her whole body in feigned seizures to demonstrate .
they both had to laugh at the dramatic display .
so you didnt die , i suppose , taylor joked .
not at all , lilly grace picked up her story , on the contrary , we felt more alive and healthy and prosperous than ever .
we didnt have the feeling that we learned something substantially new either , this was only a logical conclusion of our deliberate reduction of resistance .
we did notice a sharpening of our intuition in many situations but we chalked that up to our heightened attention and focus .
at some point , a few years after we had started the process , we came to the conclusion , that we probably had gone as far as we could with this process and we relaxed into the realization that what we had achieved was a very , very good life and the prospect of a lot more of it but that the conscious direct link to the other world would remain an unattainable dream .
something to look forward to in another plane of existence .
so you gave up ?
taylor wondered .
not really , lilly grace explained , we continued our efforts to keep our vibration , our thoughts , in as much alignment with our desires as was possible for us , but we set aside the specific goal for uplink for the time being .
i bet , that was the moment when it happened , taylor guessed .
i see , you have been in similar situations before , lilly grace nodded , you are absolutely right .
it happened so fast and completely that it took michael and me a good while to understand .
the magnitude of clarity was mind boggling .
our questions were answered in such multidimensional detail that we were concerned for a moment that our heads would explode .
for most of the information we received there werent even words to describe it .
it occurred to us much later that the only way we were able to communicate our early experiences to each other was the fact that both of us received all the information each one of us was accessing .
the whole situation defied reason or definition .
we just went with it for some time , exploring , experimenting , enjoying and getting acquainted with our new reality .
sounds like a bad case of good peyote to me , taylor laughed .
thats not as bad a description as it seems , lilly grace laughed with him , the only difference was , there was no waking up with a bad headache or with the munchies .
im not even sure if anyone else but the two of us noticed the change at first .
we just goofed around in our new playground for a few days , coming up with the most ridiculous questions and reveling in the inventive and hilarious answers that we received .
it was like a carefree fun game in the beginning , lilly grace described her early experience within the uplinked state .
what was the first thing you seriously asked ?
taylor wanted to know .
it was actually one of michaels long lasting riddles .
he had contemplated the nature of gravity for many years and had discussed it with the sharpest minds he could engage but the outcome had always been disappointing to him .
when he asked , what is gravity ?
i was fully aware of it .
we hadnt spoken about it before , but the moment he formulated the question in his mind we both instantly received the answer loud and clear and simple .
he was besides himself by the simplicity and beauty of the answer .
he couldnt stop saying , did you hear that ?
to me .
i had to hold him and calm him down for almost an hour before we were able to talk about it .
so , what was the answer ?
taylor couldnt believe that she would leave him hanging like that .
oh , of course , lilly grace added apologetically , the answer was , thought .
gravity is thought , very old static not ever changing thought .
as a matter of fact it was one of the first thoughts to bring this universe into existence .
isnt that beautiful ?
even after all these years lilly grace was still in awe by this simple concept .
thought , huh ?
taylor tried to ingest this information , now that is worth a thought .
he paused as he realized the irony of what he had just said and laughed .
whats the story with being here and not quite here at the same time ?
lilly ann always avoided my questions about where her parents lived .
i assume there is a connection somewhere here ?
taylor had lost all his trepidation of openly discussing these issues with his mother in law .
she never told you , huh ?
lilly grace laughed , it is really not so simple to say .
you see , as we continued to explore our new mind space , as we called it , we suddenly found ourselves mentally in all kinds of places , nearby or far away without ever leaving the house .
the impressions we got on these mind travels felt very real , only the direct physical interaction was missing .
most of the time we didnt know or care if the places and events we saw were real or just figments of our imagination but the information that we gathered was valuable and insightful .
during one of these trips , no pun intended , michael mentioned to me that he was hungry and felt like a good meal at the schwyzer house .
next thing we know , we sit at a table in the tavern with a couple cats sitting nearby and looking at us very curiously .
can you imagine our faces when fritz came to the table saying , gracy , michael , i didnt see you come in , what can i bring you to eat ?
we had a lot to talk about that evening .
that sounds wild , taylor muttered .
you should have been there , people who saw us that evening were concerned about our health because our faces were so pale , lilly grace agreed .
so , this is what you do now all the time ?
taylor asked .
pretty much , lilly grace said with glowing face , there is an immense universe out there for us to explore .
guess where your wedding ring came from ?
she was clearly having fun now .
im afraid to ask , taylor laughed .
there is a small nebula close to orions belt which can hardly be seen from the earths surface .
it is a beautiful constellation with just a few hundred thousand stars .
one of them is a hot , white glowing sun with fifteen tiny planets .
from a distance they look like a string of pearls .
michael noticed the metallic gleam on the surface of the planets so we had a good look and found that one of them is almost completely composed of titanium and platinum .
he took a piece of metal and wielded it into shape in the fires of that little sun .
we had a lot of fun playing with that ring while we transported it to your wedding .
you wont believe how easy it is to loose a small ring in the vastness of intergalactic space .
you are kidding me , right ?
taylor wasnt quite sure if he preferred the story to be true or made up .
nope , lilly grace answered simply , there is even a small engraving of the star and its planets on the inside of the ring , have you noticed ?
i have seen it and wondered about it , taylor confirmed , i would have never guessed what it stands for though .
they stood in silence for a few moments before taylor was able to gather his twirling thoughts .
how deep does the complexity of your thoughts go ?
how far can you reach ?
are there even words to convey your findings ?
he had a million questions popping up at the same time .
no end to it , lilly grace said without hesitation , every time we think there can not be more , there is .
we have been to the edge of the universe , literally , and guess what , there is more .
we have given up to speak in ultimate terms altogether .
there really is no end to it .
joy through expansion and expansion through joy .
you said , you still consider yourself a normal human , but your experiences do not really go well with that picture , taylor mused , are you the beginning of the next evolutionary step in the development of life on this planet ?
that would be a tall order , lilly grace shook her head , id rather think that we are experimenting with new ways to see the world and that others might or might not join us .
it could be that the first beings that developed abstract thought and language felt a little like we do , as they sure would have had a hard time to communicate their experiences to others in their communities .
i could imagine that many of these first attempts remained just that , baby steps that pre paved the way for others to expand on them and maybe find a broader experience for many , she contemplated that thought for a moment , this is not up to us , and i like it that way .
so , what do you do if you have everything you ever wanted at your fingertips ?
now taylor was eager to seize the moment to gain more clarity for his own questions .
you want more , lilly grace did not even blink , more clarity , more complexity , more peace , more of everything and then some .
can you imagine that there is relief from pure bliss and ecstasy ?
well , there is .
its delicious .
taylor had one more question that he almost did not dare to ask for the answer might be too much to comprehend .
is there more than us ?
he asked vaguely to give lilly grace the chance not to answer if she felt it would not be beneficial for him .
you mean , is there more than all there is ?
lilly graces smile radiated throughout her body , what a wonderful and boundary stretching question .
the simple answer is , yes ! , as many as your mind can imagine .
how does all there is talk to another all there is ?
taylor had an innate knowing of the answer to this question but he so much wanted to hear it spoken by another .
you know the answer to this question , john , lilly grace toyed with him , and you know that i know that you know .
and you know what , you are right .
we are the expression of source energy on the leading edge .
we are what is projected to the boundaries of thought by source .
in this sense we are the language that source uses to communicate with another .
and since source is pure love , we are the love song , which is sung from one all there is to another .
what a wonderful , wonderful idea .
thank you so much for this , john taylor .
as you see , the power always lies in the question .
the answers follow all by themselves .
taylor hadnt been as proud of himself since he aced his first flight review in a rocket fighter .
in that light , shouldnt we do something to clean up and expand our vocabulary , so to speak ?
taylor had fun playing with that new clarity .
its hard to improve on perfection , lilly grace laughed , there is no wrong or bad thought and we are but the physical expression of thought .
no matter where you stand or what you do , you are the perfect culmination of the choices you have made according to your own conclusions and preferences .
source is not concerned about any of us messing up her perfect song with our imperfect vibration .
its like with music that thrives on tension and relief , rhythm , harmony and disharmony , noise and pure tone .
take one of these away and youll end up with something that might be a bit more polished , but it sure will be a lot more boring .
after a short pause she added , it never hurts to let more fun into your life , though .
thats what we all had in mind when we said , lets get fizzical !
fun and joy , all the rest is just a means to that end .
lets get fizzical , fizzical , taylor intonated the century old tune that he had heard on the lilly book , swaying his hips and grabbing lilly graces arms for a little dance .
you know john , lilly grace laughed at his antics , i dont want to sound too maternal , but you are the best thing that could have happened to lilly ann .
you have brought so much new energy into her life and into ours .
for us , you are a glowing example of how law of attraction finds the most unlikely and creative ways to provide for all of us what matches our vibration .
we really appreciate you and love you for it .
taylor mockingly stood at attention and snapped his right hand to his temple .
all part of the service , he stated with military precision before cracking into his widest little boy smile on tap .
there was a little stir in the air and taylor was sure the shadow on the ground in front of him had not been there a moment ago .
he turned around and took a quick step back at the sight of michael angelo who had made a sudden entrance onto the scene .
nice try , dad , he said to michael , next time im not going to be impressed that easily .
i guess we have to come up with a few new tricks then , michael picked up the joking tone .
are you guys getting ready to leave again , taylor asked sensing the urgency that had come over his parents in law .
you have to excuse us , lilly grace answered , we have an appointment with james3652 , we call him jamie .
he is a white dwarf that is about to enter the event horizon of a black hole .
we have never seen anything like it before and nobody knows whats actually going to happen .
they both looked excited like high school kids at prom night at the prospect of seeing a whole star blink out of existence .
just be careful not to fall in yourselves , taylor joked as if intergalactic travel was the most natural thing an elderly couple could do on an early summer afternoon .
well be careful , promise , lilly grace kissed him on both cheeks and gave him a big hug , well see you soon .
be good .
in the next instance the slight rush of air that filled the now vacant space in front of him was taylors only evidence that what he just had experienced was anything but a very vivid daydream .
he shook his head , scratched his temple and shrugged his shoulders before turning back to his workbench to tend to his latest creation .
what did ma and you have to discuss all afternoon ?
lilly ann was curious when they both sat down for dinner by themselves .
oh , just this and that , taylor teased her , you know , them flying around in space and bringing back my wedding ring from a distant star , and them being the apes that speak while we dont .
that sort of stuff .
oh , thats all ?
lilly ann asked innocently .
yeah , that was all , taylor said with a sigh , to be honest right now i dont have the slightest idea what this all means to me , or to us .
i guess it means that all is well , lilly ann brought everything to the point .
i guess you are right , taylor agreed , and with a chuckle he added , just dont mention that to jamie , the white dwarf who is about to be eaten by a black hole .
lilly ann looked at taylor in amused bewilderment .
for the first time since they had met she had no clue what he was talking about .
she kind of liked that .
chapter 18 the flight of the condor wilbur was a true child of his surroundings .
bright eyed , fearless , easy to laugh and easy to love , smart , inventive , creative and for all intents and purposes wilbur was a little crazy .
one could have said that he pushed the believe in his invulnerability over the edge , literally , frequently .
wilbur was obsessed with the idea of flying .
even as a small child he would sit in the yard for hours and observe any critter in flight .
birds , butterflies , dragonflies , bees , bumblebees and many others alike could captivate his attention for as long as they remained aloft in his field of vision .
as wilbur grew older he got increasingly impatient with the bounds of gravity , which tied him to the ground .
skipping and jumping and swinging from trees was not quite enough to quench his thirst for lofty heights .
wilbur knew about airplanes , big complicated machines that obviously allowed some people to escape the restrictions of gravity and soar through the skies .
he had spent countless hours in front of the lilly book , spell bound by video clips , photos and drawings of flying machines .
yet , there were no airplanes in flugerton and he had neither means nor desire to go where airplanes might have been .
at the tender age of four , wilbur launched his first attempt to take to the air for himself .
he tirelessly collected every bird feather he saw lying on the ground , and some say he plucked out the odd one himself from its unwilling donor , to meticulously glue them onto his favorite shirt .
once he believed that the garment was sufficiently covered he used the neighbors ladder to climb onto a ten feet high branch of the familys plum tree and without so much as a second thought he took the plunge .
the short exhilarating flight was concluded with an ungraceful landing that broke both his legs and rendered him unconscious for the better part of an hour .
wilbur was quick to heal and since the merciful blanket of darkness had covered the majority of pain associated with his injuries , fear did not enter the equation for his further pursuit of roaming the skies .
contraptions born of unbridled ingenuity and enthusiasm littered the chosen path he was on .
catapults and shoulder lacerations , bungee cords and a crushed pelvis , oversized paper kites and broken knee caps , build , fly , crash and heal was the chain of events that became second nature to wilbur until one fateful day a stranger entered his horizon to change his life forever .
wilbur was working on his latest invention which was supposed to shoot him out of an eight feet long barrel by the force of a small explosion and once he would achieve lift off he had planned to spread his arms in a suit that resembled the flying extremities of a bat to some extent and he would glide back to the ground in a controlled manner .
for his life he could not understand why his parents , teachers , friends and pretty much everyone he told about it were so vehemently arguing against his maiden flight .
he was convinced that all would go according to plan if he just found the right amount of explosives to light underneath his feet .
everyones relief was palpable when the arrival of the four travelers from the south was the news of the day and word got around that they had made most of the trip in an airplane that was parked just two days from flugerton in the foothills of the ozark .
wilbur was ecstatic by the prospect of seeing a man who could not only fling himself into the air but , more importantly also get himself and his passengers back to the ground in one piece , what a novel idea .
even though wilbur had shadowed the group of guests for their entire stay , he had not been able to find the right opportunity to approach the captain of the airplane and talk aeronautics with him .
all four of them seemed always busy performing some sort of procedure on life stock and plants , talking to farmers and ranchers and he didnt want to get in the way of their important business .
wilbur wasnt shy per se but he appreciated the air of urgency that surrounded the traveler group and he did not want to interfere until they would take some time off and relax a bit .
two weeks later the guests were gone .
they obviously had concluded their search and had left one morning without much of a warning .
wilbur was crushed .
he believed to have missed his one chance to get any information about how to make this business of flying stick .
he knew there was a way , he only needed someone to point him in the right direction .
wilbur retreated to his room upstairs in his parents house and contemplated for the first time if he should give up on the only dream he had ever harbored .
four days later the captain was back .
every child in town knew his name now .
they called him geronimo .
his plane had fallen out of the sky , brought down by lightning , but the captain had lived and his passengers were on their way home .
can happen to the best of us , wilbur thought while he promised himself not to miss his chance this time .
next morning before sunrise , wilbur slipped out of his parents house and with only a small backpack and rations for a view days he set out on a hiking trip south .
he knew that if he stayed true to his intentions and did not let doubt or fear creep into his vibration , he would either find the broken airplane on his own or he would run into jack and jo jack to show him the way .
he was happy enough with either development .
three days and three nights wilbur tracked through the storm beaten forest all by himself before he stood with wide eyes and open mouth under the remains of the proud silver bird as it precariously remained suspended amidst dense , tall trees .
the wings had been stripped away for the most part and the skin of the fuselage was burned and molten to shreds .
the metal trellis was bent and broken in many places but the basic shape and construction were still obvious to the keen observer .
fascinated beyond measure , wilbur took mentally picture after picture of the intricate construction of this light and sturdy design .
there were the cables that moved the control surfaces and some of the levers and wheels that were manipulated by the hands of the pilot .
his imagination merged the missing parts back into place and suddenly he could see it .
his minds eye perceived a clear picture of the stream of air acting on the hull of the airplane , how the profile of the wing would create lift and the propeller would pull the craft through the sky .
control surfaces , stabilizers , even the illusive landing flaps made perfect sense in the context of his years of studies of aerodynamics and mechanics .
the idea that formed in his head was as far fetched as any he had ever dreamed up .
i can build this .
the thought was frightening in scope and reach and life summoning enough to last for decades .
you like the bird , joe jacks remark was more a statement than a question .
jack and jo jack had silently emerged from between the trees and found the boy contemplating the airplane in awe .
wilbur turned around not even the slightest surprised .
yes , he agreed , yes i do .
can you help me take it apart and bring it back to town ?
sure .
jack and jo jack nodded their heads , turned around and disappeared in the direction they had come from .
...
knock , knock , lilly ann cautiously opened the door to the tool shed , which taylor had converted to his artist studio .
she never knew when it was safe to walk in because of the more or less violent fabrication methods he used to create his masterpieces .
there is someone who would like to meet you , john .
she opened the door all the way and taylor walked out into the yard in a cloud of fumes and dust .
he coughed a few times to get the smoke out of his lungs and turned to kiss lilly ann .
she threw her arms up in defense , i think you need a bath and a shave before you come anywhere near me mister , she joked and jumped out of his reach .
this is wilbur , she introduced their guest , he has been a fan of yours for a long time and he has something he wants to show to you .
its a pleasure to meet you , wilbur , taylor vigorously shook the young mans hand , so you like metal sculptures .
do you work in metal too ?
its an honor , sir , wilbur replied very politely .
he looked helplessly between lilly ann and taylor a few times before he said a little embarrassed , well , sir , actually , im not so much a fan of yours as an artist but mainly as an airplane pilot .
you know , i want to fly too .
oh , taylor chuckled , sorry for being so assumptions .
i havent done any flying since , well , you probably have heard since when .
come to think of it , for the first time since my sixteenth birthday my pilots license has expired a few months ago .
hm , didnt even think about that until now .
so , what was it you wanted to show me ?
id rather not say but show you , sir wilbur avoided a direct answer , if you dont mind , sir he added hastily .
id rather you stop calling me sir , wilbur , taylor said , and no , i dont mind .
would you want to join us for lunch first ?
i also need to clean up before i can leave the house .
after a lightning fast all around grooming sequence the three of them sat at a picnic table in the yard and enjoyed their sandwiches .
you know , john , wilbur is somewhat of a celebrity himself here in town , arent you wilbur ?
she smiled at him warmly .
yeah , dont mention it , wilbur murmured .
dont be so modest , lilly ann laughed , wilbur has even you beat for most broken bones and life threatening injuries .
you see , john , there is probably not a single way of getting airborne that wilbur hasnt tried out already , with the exception of using an actual airplane of course .
is that right ?
taylor looked at wilbur with a mixture of admiration and curiosity , so , what would you call yourself , determined or nuts ?
he jovially slapped the young man on the back .
a bit of both , i assume , wilbur admitted , but these days are over .
i have decided to get serious now .
are you gon na jump off eagles cliff next , lilly ann was all excited , youll break your neck for good doing that .
no , maam wilbur shook his head , none of that foolishness anymore .
are we done yet ?
i cant wait to show you and mr. taylor .
well then , taylor stood up and shoved the last piece of bread into his mouth , where to young man ?
the old service station , at the big meadow up the river , wilbur jumped to his feet as well , ill show you .
the outlines of the good year sign were washed out but still visible above the large sliding doors on the front of the abandoned automotive service station .
the grass covering what was once the customer parking lot was trimmed short and tidy and the whole area made a nicely groomed impression .
this looks so nice , wilbur , lilly ann clapped her hands as she climbed out of her vans drivers seat , who cleaned up the mess around here ?
i did , maam , wilbur announced eagerly , a few of my friends helped too .
do you live out here ?
lilly ann was curious .
yes , maam , for the most part , but that is not why i brought you here .
wilbur walked to the huge sliding door , which had recently been repaired with smooth wooden planks .
he grabbed the wrought iron handle resembling a propeller and pulled the door open .
this is why i brought you here .
the object wilburs sweeping gesture enveloped left taylor and lilly ann speechless .
behold the condor .
thats an airplane , taylor stammered , stating the obvious , its brand new .
where did you get this ?
he turned to wilbur , who grinned from ear to ear , giddy from his successful coup .
i built it , he drove the surprise to a new peak .
you did , huh ?
taylor looked at him incredulously but the delight and pride in the young mans face told him that he spoke the truth , you did , didnt you .
meanwhile lilly ann was besides herself from joy and excitement .
she danced and skipped around the plane clapping her hands , chanting , wilbur built an airplane !
wilbur built an airplane !
taylor shook his head , still in shock , and stepped closer to the aircraft .
he immediately noticed the resemblance with his old plane in proportions and basic construction .
it seemed that this airplane was about three quarters the size his plane had been .
it was entirely built of steel and wood frames covered with canvas .
the control surfaces were not attached yet and the plane was missing the landing gear and an engine .
everything else was there as far as he could see at a first glance .
this is good work , taylor ran his hands over the tightly stretched hull , do you actually want to fly this thing ?
hm , i dont know , wilbur replied , i was hoping you would help me finish it and teach me how to fly .
he looked at taylor with hopeful anticipation .
if you are not too busy , of course , sir , he added hastily .
we would need an engine and wheels , taylor felt right in his element .
all here , wilbur pulled back a tarp covering the salvaged engine and the deflated but intact main wheels .
i asked jack and joe jack to help me get your airplane here .
i also used much of the structural material to build the fuselage frame .
i thought that some of the parts looked awfully familiar , taylor smiled .
did you do any stress tests on the wings and tail to see if itll hold together ?
yes sir , wilbur wasnt going to give up calling taylor sir any time soon , it seemed , we lifted the plane up with winches at the tips of the wings and then we piled rocks into the cockpit .
we got at least three times the weight of the airplane including engine in there before i got scared .
do you think that would be enough ?
thatll do , taylor chuckled , well do another test once we have the engine and all the missing parts in .
so , you are going to help me , wilbur almost couldnt contain himself .
well , i have to ask mrs. taylor first for permission , of course , taylor laughed nodding at lilly ann .
naturally , wilbur agreed and looked tensely at lilly ann .
you dont need my permission , lilly ann laughed , you boys with your toys , she scolded , go finish the plane , fly it , have fun .
i want to get a ride too .
taylor looked at wilbur with raised eyebrows , i guess you got yourself a partner , partner .
congratulations .
every morning 6 a.m. without fail for the next few months wilburs pickup truck would stop in front of the taylor house and he would patiently wait until his mentor appeared at the front door with a big smile on his face and a bag full of food and drink for lunch under his arm .
taylor had rekindled his love affair with all things flying .
they had gone over the planes structure inch by inch , refining the design , loosing a few ounces here , adding a bit of strength there to ensure the integrity of hull and wings in flight .
they designed control surfaces and attached them to the stabilizers , routed cables through the fuselage and made them functional with proper flight controls in the cockpit .
the mangled landing gear of taylors plane was stripped of its valuable bearings , suspension and breaks to provide the necessary functionality to the newly thought out wheel assembly .
it took two young painters , herb and lilly fran , who were as much interested in each other as they were in painting the airplane , more than a month to apply sealant and paint to the canvas covering the entire plane .
taylors suggestion to just take a big brush and paint the whole thing white was met with disgust .
small deliberate brush strokes , many thousands of them , turned the plain looking craft into a gleaming proud bird , one intricate feather at a time .
in the end it looked like it was soaring through the skies even when standing still on the ground .
the plane was almost finished were it not for that little detail that they had conveniently avoided to even discuss .
the engine cowl still was ominously empty .
one morning taylor pulled back the tarp that had covered the engine for all this time .
we have to look at this mess sooner or later , he fought for encouragement for the both of them .
it didnt look pretty .
the entire engine was covered in thick oily soot and it was obvious that a few metal parts were badly bent out of shape from the heat and the impact .
no use to whine about it , taylor got to business , lets tear it down and see what we got .
wilbur had no trepidation getting his hands dirty and neither did taylor .
in less time than it takes to say , internal combustion engine they were both covered in grime and grease while cautiously disassembling the precious heart of the airplane .
taylor was engulfed in a full blown hurricane of emotions .
he was delighted to once more have his hands on the old trusty machine that he had taken apart and put back together so many times , just as it tore his heart out to see the motor in such poor shape , damaged almost beyond recovery .
one part after another they disassembled the power plant cleaning every bit and piece and covering them in fresh oil .
they cataloged the damage and sorted out what could be repaired by means available to them and where ingenuity would have to step in to make up for the right materials or tools .
we are missing about a third of an engine , taylor concluded as he went over the list again .
we have all the parts for four cylinders , wilbur suggested , the condor is smaller and lighter than your plane was .
we could put weights on the crankshaft for balance and rebuild it as a four cylinder instead of six cylinder motor .
itll run a bit rough , but if we can get the counterweights right it might just work , taylor agreed , do you know someone who could do the calculations for the balancing ?
i already did , wilbur handed taylor a piece of paper covered with a mathematical formula that made his eyes swim , does that look right to you ?
i couldnt tell you if my life depended on it , taylor shook his head , it seems that you are the genius between the two of us , so im going to trust you and well see what happens .
and so they did .
many days and most of the nights they built and took apart and built again until one early morning the two men stood exhausted , sleep deprived but proud and happy before their finished work .
the stout little engine had been granted another lease on life .
the odds that it would once again pull an airplane across the sky grew higher by the minute .
lets fire her up after we got some sleep , taylor suggested .
they pulled the garage doors shut and drove home for some well deserved rest .
not even five hours later wilbur sat patiently in his truck in front of taylors house and waited .
he had been too excited to sleep , so he had decided to drive out into the woods to a friends place for a special pickup .
taylor and lilly ann finally made an appearance .
it seemed that the missus would join them for the big moment of turning over their franken engine for the first time .
wilbur jumped out of the truck and jovially pointed his thumb at the truck bed .
i picked up something special this morning , he announced with an excited grin on his face .
he lowered the tailgate and pulled out a long object that was carefully wrapped in thick fabric padding .
what is it ?
taylor asked , looks like a ... its a propeller , wilbur interrupted him unable to contain himself , the one from your plane was all bent and broken , so jack and i sliced it up into small pieces to have templates for the profile .
then jack carved this .
he pulled the wrapping apart and revealed a jewel of a wooden propeller .
it was carved out of very dark laminated wood and had the hub of its predecessor already installed .
wow , taylor whistled as he saw the marvel , this is beautiful .
what kind of wood is it made of ?
well , we thought that we could use some extra strength , wilbur explained , so jack laminated thin pieces of old hardwood railway sleepers into a big block .
they are very dry and hard as rock .
it takes a big man to carve these .
taylor ran his fingers over the highly polished wood surface .
he traced the profile of the propeller on various places and was impressed with the smooth flow of the shape .
its balanced in all directions too , wilbur explained , to a fiftieth of an ounce .
you are full of surprises my friend , taylor said full of admiration for his resourceful and ingenious protg .
a small crowd had already gathered at the flugerton airport , as wilbur called his garage jokingly , and more spectators arrived as time passed .
rumors had been persistent that wilbur and taylor had actually succeeded in building this flying machine and everyone who had helped in any way had sung its praises .
most people in town did not have much desire to travel very far , and it would have taken a miracle to persuade them to take a ride in an airplane , but if young wilbur was brave enough to give it another try , they sure wanted to be part of it and cheer him on .
with the big propeller under his arm wilbur with taylor and lilly ann in tow made his way past the clapping audience and pulled the door to the hangar open .
an approving gasp could be heard from people who had not seen the airplane before as it appeared in the gleaming midday sun .
rather ceremoniously wilbur raised up the propeller and slipped the metal hub onto the engines drive shaft .
in a crisscross pattern that was ingrained into his brain from many repetitions taylor tightened the bolts of the propeller assembly .
click , click , click , the torque wrench sounded to signal its approval for the correct tension of the bolts .
thats it , taylor simply said , you got yourself an airplane .
their handshake and smile was all the expression of appreciation needed between the two men .
grease , sweat and curse words can form a bond that goes beyond spoken words .
wilbur removed the wheel chocks to free the bird from its birthplace .
he and taylor grabbed opposite ends of the propeller and slowly pulled the airplane out into the open .
they had decided to do a test run of the engine and take it from there .
no use in making big plans and getting ahead of themselves .
once the aircraft was outside and positioned so that the prop wash would not hit anything valuable they reattached the wheel chocks to the main landing gear to keep the plane from taking off on its own .
you remember the starting procedure ?
taylor asked wilbur .
there was no other way than to hand prop the motor at this time .
wilbur nodded , confident that he would not have any difficulty turning the motor in order to start it .
taylor climbed into the leather upholstered pilots seat and loudly called out the switches and controls he manipulated according to their own checklist .
all the way down the list he announced , ignition on , check .
wilbur pulled the leather gloves he was wearing tight one more time and stepped up to the propeller .
with a quick look at his parents in the audience and at taylor in the cockpit he placed both hands on the downward side of the propeller , pulled it slowly to the compression point of the first cylinder and with all his might turned it over and quickly stepped back to safety .
the engine said plop plop plop and was silent again .
taylor nodded at wilbur encouraging .
again wilbur grabbed the propeller and rotated it .
plop bang bang plop was the engines response and a small white cloud puffed out of the exhaust stack .
taylor nodded again and wilbur went to repeat the procedure .
plop bang then a moment of silence and with a loud bang the engine came to life .
it sputtered and protested against the inappropriate fuel mixture .
taylor reached around the windshield to adjust the idle setting on the carburetor and was rewarded with a much more compliant sounding power plant .
to the sound of wild cheers and hollering from the crowd and with an eye on young wilbur standing in utter amazement of his own achievement , taylor slowly increased the power setting of the engine .
the speed of the propeller climbed with the angry growl of the motor , the plane straining against the shackles that locked it to the ground .
the engine was running at what taylor considered full usable power for about three minutes before he reached for the throttle control , reduced power to idle and killed the ignition switch .
silence , broken by the crackling of the hot metal rewarded his actions .
taylor shut down the airplane in reverse order of startup and climbed out of the cockpit .
lilly ann was hopping up and down clapping her hands .
is she ready to fly ?
she asked excitedly .
taylor smiled at wilbur who hadnt moved or said anything .
i think shes ready to go , he announced , well go over every inch of it again to make sure that nothing came loose from the engine vibration , then well do a longer test run of the motor and then we are ready to go , whenever you are , wilbur .
he touched wilburs arm to bring him out of his freeze .
sure , wilbur stammered slowly regaining coherence of thought , whenever you say its time , sir .
lets get to work then , taylor assumed control of the situation .
he turned to lilly ann , do you think someone could go and get some food and drink for all these people , its going to be a long afternoon .
ill let willie know , she said without making an effort to get going .
right , thank you , taylor shrugged .
he was not the least bit surprised when he heard the catering van from schwyzer house rolling up the street twenty minutes later .
he so hoped that he could get used to that kind of thing rather sooner than later .
the afternoon sun was slowly descending to the west when a crowd of people followed a small airplane , painted in otherworldly looking fiery feathers , that was carefully pulled by a handful of volunteers onto the meadow behind the service station just outside of flugerton .
the grass had been meticulously trimmed over a period of many months and all bumps and ripples on the surface had been flattened to provide a smooth field of grass .
flugerton airport was open for its first order of business , the maiden flight of the condor .
the airplane was positioned at the western end of the landing strip and people lined up alongside the field to get a good look .
the two pilots stood next to the plane and went over the tasks to be performed and over the flight plan one more time .
they had fuel for about 30 minutes of engine runtime on board , so the plan was to have a ten minute first test flight and try to get back to the ground in one piece .
as the saying goes , any landing you walk away from was a good landing , if you can use the aircraft again , it was a great landing .
so that was the plan .
lilly ann stood with her brother at the side of the meadow and waved at taylor as he climbed into the cockpit for the third time that day .
the starting routine looked like a well rehearsed ballet by then and soon the loud sputter of the idling engine was heard throughout the area .
wilbur ran a big circle around the wing of the airplane , climbed into the second seat behind taylors and fastened his safety belt .
he touched taylors shoulder to let him know that he was ready .
taylor reached back to squeeze his hand .
they were in this together now , for better or worse .
taylor had expected an emotional onslaught for the moment when it would become eminent that he was about to reclaim his place amongst the clouds .
when the time came , however , it felt so natural to slide the throttle control forward and release the breaks that the only emotions he felt were relief and appreciation for the young man behind him and the good fortune their friendship had been blessed with .
the condor slowly gained speed hopping and bobbing eastwards on its big wheels .
the beautiful wooden propeller sung its song driven by the ingeniously resurrected motor , propelling the craft faster and faster .
soon taylor felt the air pressure on the flight controls and the rudder responded to his input to keep the plane straight .
slowly the tail lifted off the ground affording the pilot and his passenger full view of the field they were racing across .
there was ample room in front of them so taylor forced the plane to stay on the ground for just a few seconds longer .
the more speed they had available to turn into lift the safer the first take off would be .
blink an eye , she rolled , blink again , she flew , just like that .
the condor had made the step into a new frontier .
soft backpressure on the elevator control put distance between the wheels and the ground .
she flew for good .
the crowd was quiet , almost in shock at first , only to burst into a frantic celebration of hugs and backslapping , laughs and tears .
they couldnt believe what they saw with their own eyes .
one of their own had built this thing , and it flew .
wilbur had finally made it , he was a flyboy after all .
the careful calculations of weight and balance had paid off .
it took only slight adjustments to the trim tabs for taylor to stabilize the bird in a controlled climb .
his plan was to get them at least a few hundred feet above ground before he would test maneuvering capabilities .
a few minutes of slow but steady climb brought them to a safe altitude to level off and try to turn the plane for the first time .
the very conservative wing profile and generous dihedral made for a very stable flying aircraft .
the reaction to aileron input was smooth and predictable and the plane turned without complaint .
with the basic flight maneuvers successfully checked off the list there was one more procedure that had to be performed on their maiden flight .
taylor turned the plane back towards the airfield and set it straight and level .
he raised his hand to the agreed upon sign and pointed his thumb to his back .
after counting to five he released the control stick stretching his arms to both sides .
wilbur had to remind himself to soften his white knuckle grip on the flight stick .
he took a deep breath , consciously loosened his fingers and gently pushed the stick to the right .
as the plane started to turn he applied a little backpressure on the elevator and just a hair of right rudder and as if it was the most natural thing to do in his life he directed the aircraft into a coordinated turn .
not the slightest impressed by the bumps in its movements or the slight turbulence as they crossed over the forest wilbur flew the airplane with intuition and gusto and a grin that seemed to have taken hold of his face for good .
he felt like he had finally made the first step into his native element , and in a way he had done just that .
after having performed a few turns and circles wilbur tapped taylors shoulder , time to fly home .
taylor had enjoyed wilburs show of talent immensely and with waving thumbs up to his copilot he took back control of the craft .
the airplane had on purpose been designed with a mild mannered flight attitude in mind so the glide back to the ground was as satisfying as it was uneventful .
they touched down only a few hundred feet from where their flight had begun and as the plane bobbed to a halt the crowd of spectators stormed the field to congratulate their heroes .
chapter 19 think and feel you seem pensive , oh prince of my castle , lilly ann said tenderly as she walked into the backyard to find taylor sit deep in thought at the picnic table .
i what ?
taylor surfaced from his contemplation , oh , im sorry , love .
did you say something ?
he reached for lilly anns hand and pressed it against his lips .
i was just commenting on your far away thinklings , she stroked his hair , anything you want to share ?
i dont know , taylor hesitated , its kind of silly , really .
well , thats right up my alley then , im the queen of all things silly , lilly ann announced dramatically .
taylor laughed in relief , he had been waiting for a chance to discuss his thoughts with lilly ann .
you know , that first flight of the condor got me thinking , he was trying to sort out his own feelings , it would not take much to make her suitable for flying higher and for longer distances .
shes slow , but seems reliable .
shes a good airplane .
that sounds like fun , lilly ann was wise enough not to put any pressure on him , you have to take me along some time .
yes , definitely , youre going to love it , taylor was thankful for the distraction and lighthearted tone of the conversation , but that is not exactly what i was contemplating .
he paused for a moment to find the right words .
remember , when i first recovered from my crash and all i wanted to do is go back to texas and tell everyone about my magical healing ?
taylor smiled at the thought of a time that seemed a life away , i would have made a fool out of myself if i had gone through with it and i would have lost everything that i had in store here .
its difficult to know what would have happened , lilly ann cautioned , but i have to say , that personally i am very happy that you decided to stay .
are you having second thoughts about your choice ?
there was not a hint of worry or jealousy in her voice and her eyes spoke only of love and care .
no , not at all , taylor shook his head , that was the best decision of my entire life .
sometimes , when i wake up in the morning , i have to pinch myself to be sure im not dreaming and all of this is real .
its so good .
he pulled lilly ann closer to feel her warmth .
still , i obviously did not completely abandon the idea that what i have seen and learned here would be of tremendous benefit to the friends that i left behind .
i find myself calculating flight plans to texas and back here and i dont know how i should feel about this .
he was quiet for a moment .
it sure would be nice to see cody again , he added quietly .
i can imagine that you miss your friends , lilly ann nodded , i know , i would .
they would love to see that you are well , im sure .
she thought about it for a moment , what would you tell them this time ?
good question , taylor chuckled , trust in the fairies of the universe and do as the hamster says , he proclaimed emphatically and laughed .
thats good !
lilly ann joined him in his laughter , just dont walk away from the airplane too far so you can make a quick exit before they put you in a straight jacket .
but seriously , taylor changed the tone of the conversation , many of my friends have been searching for a better way to go about life for a long time .
if i could just give them a small foothold to get going , that might make all the difference for them .
you know , even where i came from not everyone is as stubborn as i was .
really , lilly ann teased him about his last comment , that certainly is good to hear .
so there is hope for them .
you know , taylor tried to get his idea organized , even when you leave abraham and abrahamster out of the picture , the principles still apply , right ?
we create our own reality by the power of our thoughts .
law of attraction brings us whatever we direct our attention to .
our emotions tell us if what we are thinking is in line with what we prefer or not .
we are eternal beings .
we are energy and creative god force at the very core of our being .
all we ever have to do to live a more pleasant and satisfying experience is to find thoughts that make us feel better .
sounds simple enough , right ?
to you and me it does , lilly ann agreed , but what if you would not know what you know or if you hadnt seen what you have seen ?
would it still be simple ?
where is the pudding ?
where is the what ?
taylor didnt follow .
ha , just making sure you were still with me , lilly ann laughed , where is the proof ?
its in the pudding .
so , where is the pudding ?
im the pudding .
taylor joined her in her imagery , i am the proof for all of it .
the fact that i came back to talk about it would be proof enough , right ?
yes , you would be proof , lilly ann agreed , but what would you be proof of other than the fact that you can do what none of them can ?
proof that you do and know what no one should be able to do or know , at least according to the old books that some of them are wielding ?
some would call you devil and some would call you lord , and none of them would rest until they see you nailed to a cross .
wow , taylor was taken aback , i didnt know that you feel so strongly about this .
i dont , lilly ann had her lighthearted tone of voice back , i was just reciting a passage from one of the abraham recordings .
they thought it quite possible that esther would find herself in this situation if people started to mix up what was abraham and what was her .
did she ?
taylor asked intently .
not that i know of , lilly ann shrugged , but i do know that the hicksies and abraham , always made a strong point to only answer questions that were specifically asked of them .
no preaching to the flock in hope that something sticks .
ah , the prime directive , taylor mocked .
the what ?
now it was lilly anns turn to raise her eyebrows .
oh , nothing , taylor chuckled , just a nugget from stories i loved to read as a kid about this futuristic society .
they flew around in their spaceship and encountered all kinds of different species on far away planets .
their first rule of engagement , the prime directive , was one of noninterference .
it just flashed in my mind when you reminded me of the no ask no tell principle again .
see , there is truth and wisdom readily available in the most unlikely places , lilly ann said cheerfully , for every question there is an answer , and sometimes its closer than we think .
i know , taylor admitted , i havent thought this through all the way , but it frustrates me that i could provide solutions to problems that so many people are facing , people that are still dear to me , and there is nothing i can do about it .
do you think the world you came from is broken and needs fixing ?
lilly ann set a neat little trap for him .
right , taylor smiled , if i do then i might be part of the problem and not the solution .
very sneaky .
tell me about your friends , lilly ann asked him , what are their lives like ?
well , taylor started , you have met cody .
he is like a big old bear .
he doesnt go looking for trouble , but he doesnt back away from it either , and it always finds him , believe me .
in a way he is a lot like you , come to think of it , like a big kid , in a good way , he added quickly .
i liked cody , lilly ann smiled at the thought of the goofy giant , with him you always know where you stand , no hidden agendas .
then there was mary from the airport office .
she is the sweetest woman you can ever imagine .
shell run all over town to find a certain candy bar just because she knows its the favorite of a pilots child whos supposed to come through that day .
shes been through hard times , as most of the people that ive known , but she doesnt know a bitter thought .
i always considered her an angel in the midst of the sometimes rough crowd at a paramilitary airport .
there were many names taylor mentioned and many sweet stories he recounted , tragic losses and glorious victories .
many a tear had been shed in dire desperation and many laughs had been celebrated with good friends and sworn enemies .
love , life , miracles and heartbreak , he had seen it all , just as anyone had with as many years to his name as he did .
lilly ann sat in silence and enjoyed the parade of faces , facts and events drawn up by the power of taylors words .
there was a lot of life that he had left behind without ever looking back .
who would not understand his desire to share the gifts he had received with the loved ones of his former life ?
you are a lucky man , john taylor , lilly ann smiled affectionately at him , good friends dont come cheap and you were blessed with so many of them .
so true , taylor nodded , i believe that i have to find a way to help them , as you have helped me .
maybe i could get a data pad and download the content of the lilly book onto it .
then they could see for themselves and make up their minds .
i am sure you will find the right way and the right time , lilly ann said , you have to get the condor in shape first anyway and who knows what other ideas you come up with in the meantime .
just dont forget who you have become when you think about where you have come from .
thanks for reminding me , taylor smiled at her , think and feel , right ?
exactly , lilly ann nodded and kissed him gently , think and feel , and then think some more and feel again .
you are doing so exceptionally well , john taylor , and from what youve been telling me , so are most of your friends .
she stood up from the garden bench humming the melody of an old holiday tune .
jingle bells , jingle bells , ...
the words she had learned from a funny abrahamster cartoon animation on the lilly book were of course much more fitting think and feel , think and feel , thinking day and night , oh what fun it is to think a thought that feels so bright .
she kicked her leg up at the last word and clapped her hands .
are you hungry ?
she asked taylor .
i can eat , he finished their favorite phrase and laughed .
chapter 20 lilly a few weeks later taylor came home one evening from his ongoing work with wilbur when lilly ann greeted him at the door and waved wilbur good bye .
she pulled taylor inside the house , her face glowing with an unfamiliar intensity and kissed him passionately on the lips .
guess what ?
she asked out of breath .
you are wearing a new dress , taylor gladly played along .
yes , that too , lilly ann waved him off , what else ?
new shoes ?
taylor was unsure were this was headed .
yes , but look , she slowly lost her patience .
she lifted her new dress up to her shoulders , cant you see it ?
you are wearing new underwear , i like it .
taylor remarked , but if thats not it ill be happy to carry you to the bedroom to have a closer look .
he grinned mischievously at her .
no , thats not it , lilly ann huffed and lowered her dress much to taylors dismay .
she took taylors hand and dragged him into the kitchen .
sit down , apparently we have to do this the grownup way , she was not happy about his slow comprehension .
remember the other day in the yard when we talked about south central and your friends and you going back to help them ?
yes , i do , taylor answered , what does that have to do with your new underwear ?
could you be a little more single minded , please ?
lilly ann scolded him while caressing his hand all the while , forget about my underwear for a moment .
o.k. , you got it , taylor said , glancing at her dress again .
remember how you asked lilly the first time you thought about going back ?
she wasnt making this any easier for him .
yes , came the slow reply .
there was an obvious question mark attached to his answer .
well , you can ask lilly again this time , lilly ann said with a curious undertone .
i dont know , taylor began , but lilly ann put his hand on top of her belly .
this lilly , she said , our lilly .
taylors eyes flew wide open .
you mean , he had a hard time coordinating his speech , you mean you are ...
yes , my love , lilly ann said genuinely amused , i am pregnant .
there is a little lilly growing under your hand .
i am ... this is ... when ... how ?
taylor kissed lilly anns neck and cheeks and hands still unable to form a coherent sentence .
i know , she said softly , i am so happy , i could burst , but that has to wait for another seven months .
she obviously had not lost her quirky sense of humor .
taylor was stunned .
a child , his child , their child , their lilly .
tears of joy were streaming down his face and all he was able to stammer was , thank you , thank you , thank you .
they sat on the old kitchen bench for a long time , embracing each other tightly , trying to adjust to the onslaught of almost unbearable bliss .
buzzing with love for each other and for their unborn treasure they did not move until well , until lilly anns arm fell asleep .
i have to move my arm , she whispered with barely withheld laughter , and i have to go pee , a privilege of the pregnant , you know .
she slowly slipped out of taylors embrace and he could hear her giggling and skipping all the way down the hall until the bathroom door had closed behind her .
unable to move , speak or even think he just sat there , waiting for his love to return and release the spell .
the news took a while to fully sink into the minds of the soon to be parents .
time and again taylor and lilly ann found themselves pausing in the middle of a conversation , compelled to rethink their standpoint on the issue at hand in light of the increased complexity of their life circumstances .
the shift in weight and direction of their discussions was invigorating on the one hand but slightly confusing all the while .
what do i know about being a mommy ?
taylor heard lilly anns frustrated question followed by noisy sniffling as he opened the bedroom door .
he had just returned from delivering and installing one of his metal creations to an art connoisseur when he heard strange voices from upstairs .
he had expected to find lilly ann in conversation with a visitor and was surprised to see her sitting on the bed by herself , traces of tears on her cheeks , clenching a pillow to her chest .
what do i know about being a mommy ?
she turned and looked at him with tear filled eyes .
without even trying to find an answer to this impossible question he sat on the bed and tried to pull lilly ann into his arms .
he did not anticipate the resistance he was suddenly facing .
this is not going to do this time , lilly ann pouted , i need an answer and i need it now .
who have you been talking to before i came in ?
taylor tried to change the subject .
leila , lilly ann said without hesitation .
i havent heard that name in a while , taylor got curious , last time i asked you who leila was i didnt get a straight answer from you .
lilly ann looked at him asking herself how he cold not know .
abrahams little sister , she said simply , leila is my spirit guide , my inner being .
youve talked with her before .
i guess i have , taylor smiled , i just didnt know that she was the infamous leila .
well , shes not much help today either , lilly ann huffed , for once i need an answer really bad and she is nowhere to be found .
all i hear is the echo of her voice repeating all is well , you are loved .
but thats not going to do it today .
taylor was alarmed and amused at the same time of his mates out of character antics .
usually lilly ann was the one throwing commonplace phrases at him until she had worn him down to consider engaging his thinking muscles and contemplate alternatives to his pre manufactured ideas .
for a split second he was tempted to return the favor .
so what was the problem again ?
he decided an alternative approach , i think you know everything there is to know about being a mommy .
the phrase quenching a fire with gasoline crossed his mind the second his words were out .
what would you know , lilly ann jumped at him without warning , a living example that rage feels better than fear , this is all your fault anyway .
i never even thought about having a baby before you showed up .
but you are so great with kids , taylor tried to get a word in .
yeah , sure , i love playing with kids .
if they would let me id rather eat at the kids table every time .
when any of the other kids get hungry i am the one to complain the loudest until someone feeds us , but i was never the one who got up to prepare the food .
i want our lilly to have a real mommy and not just a playmate who doesnt know how to take care of her baby .
lilly ann pulled a large handkerchief from under her dress and blew up a hurricane .
bringing in the ships , are we ?
taylor tried to cheer her up .
very funny , lilly ann laughed reluctantly , this is not helping either .
betraying her own words she blew her nose again and giggled , almost her own self again .
do you think leila would talk to me ?
taylor asked cautiously .
what do you want to ask her ?
lilly ann was skeptical .
id be curious if she could find out what lilly thinks about your concern , taylor mused , she was the one who picked you from all the mommies that she had to choose from .
i know for a fact that we will have a very smart kid , so she must have had her good reasons , right ?
lilly ann looked at taylor in utter amazement for his logic .
above the mountain of her fear , through the haze of her tears rose a bright beacon of light , casting away shadows and doubt .
its warmth and comfort swept across the barren land of despair and showed her the path out of this false jungle of thoughts .
lilly , she tugged on taylors arm , you are right , our lilly , she knows , she knows everything .
she jumped to her feet and started bouncing up and down on the bed .
its going to be all right , everything is going to be all right .
she fell back onto the mattress .
come here john taylor my smart hunk , she pulled him to lay next to her , lilly said , its going to be all right , she whispered into taylors ear and nibbled his lobe , have i told you lately that i love you ?
i do .
exhausted from being lost and rescued from the torment of her dark thoughts she fell asleep with a bright smile on her face .
the question had crossed taylors mind how to provide for a family in the uncharted economics of abundance , which prevailed in flugerton .
the absolute lack of either currency or any form of accounting of treasure left his keen sense of give and take unsatisfied and the desire to prove his ability to carry his own weight sometimes provoked awkward situations for himself and his victims .
taylor had learned his lesson from his handyman episodes which had almost severed his and lilly anns ties to flugertons society but he still had difficulties to count his selfishly motivated metal art or his work for wilburs condor adequate payment for the constant flow of goods and services he enjoyed on a daily basis .
whenever taylor brought up this issue with lilly ann or anyone else for that matter , they claimed to not know what he was talking about and changed the subject .
now he was starting a family and he had made up his mind that he would get to the bottom of this .
what do you know about money ?
he asked edie may who curiously looked up from her studies at the sudden question .
john , good to see you , i sometimes get lost in my reading and did not see you come in , she apologized , why are you inquiring about money ?
i am trying to figure out how i can provide for my family , taylor came right to the point , where i come from we make sure that we earn enough money to pay for everything we need or want , so there is no mystery about what you can afford or how you are doing financially .
its simple .
here i dont know how or why i get what i and my family need so i dont know how to provide any kind of security for them .
hm , interesting dilemma , edie may acknowledged , i know about money from the abraham hicks recordings , they talked about it frequently .
it seems to me that money was a lot of trouble for many people in those days .
how was the experience of money for you , john ?
did it flow easily to you ?
not always , john admitted , many times it was quite a struggle to make ends meet , but at least i always knew where i was standing .
i got by good enough .
i guess you have noticed that we dont have a monetary system in place and that no one keeps score about the flow of goods and services , but that wasnt always the case , edie may surprised taylor , you see , in the beginning the settlers were used to paying for whatever they received and they had brought their money with them , so a lively exchange ensued .
it did not take long though , for many to realize that by utilizing law of attraction for satisfying their desires , they usually had more of everything than they could use , so they started to give things away .
over time that developed into the economic system of abundance that we live in .
it turned out that if one does not have to take the amount of compensation they receive for a task into account , there is someone for every kind of work that is supposed to be performed .
sometimes that seems like a miracle , even to us , but at some point you just stop to argue against what works and go with the flow .
if there ever will be a situation that would make it necessary or desirable to change that system , i have absolute faith that law of attraction will bring about that change in a natural unfolding .
there really is nothing to worry about .
i have seen the system work perfectly on a day to day basis , taylor agreed , but what about long term security ?
i dont want my child to have to worry even if things might change around here .
i have seen you , john , edie may looked at him intently , i have seen how you deliberately and successfully made our world your own .
your worth and benefit to this society is out of the question , and so is your childrens .
there is nothing to prove .
security is in what we know , not in what we have .
but what am i going to do ?
taylor was not convinced yet .
the greatest gift anyone can give to the world , edie may said with much emphasis , is to fill his days with whatever brings him the most joy .
what brings you the most joy , john taylor ?
taylor nodded his head .
thank you , edie may .
always a great help .
he knew that this was the only answer he would ever get form the good people of flugerton .
he would have to figure out for himself what this meant to him .
i hear you want to fly to texas ?
edie may said casually as he was getting up to leave .
hard to keep a secret around here , taylor smiled wryly , but i guess things have changed since lilly ann told me about our lilly .
you dont sound very convinced , edie may observed , this cant be an easy decision either way , right ?
no , it is not , granted , taylor answered , i am going back and forth on the issue .
fact is though , i do not want to miss my childs birth or seeing her grow up .
strange timing in all of this , i dont really know what to make of it .
maybe the burden of choice should not be yours alone ?
edie may suggested .
lilly ann said the same thing , ask lilly , but can i really put that on her ?
taylor didnt know what to think .
oh , i think you misunderstand the process , edie may saw through his dilemma , lilly is not the one to make the decision , that is always yours , what she can do , is to give you clarity about what you really want , where your heart really stands .
a choice with that knowing is a lot easier to make .
relief washed over taylors face .
he was unsure if he would ever be able to naturally take the simplest solution and run with it until more information , knowledge or clarity was available to him .
he has seen it work though , so he was determined to give it a try .
it was easy to loose track of time in the daily pursuit of joy .
the changes taylor saw in lilly ann were gradual , yet dramatic .
her whole being seemed to conform to the transition that her outer form underwent .
her eyes , always lively and quick , bright and sparkling , gained depth and clarity and reflected the world around her in soft glowing hues of amber .
her movements did not slow down as much as they began to flow with an ethereal grace .
her voice added a new timbre with weight and purpose to its repertoire and her laugh had found knowing and truth .
it wasnt so much that she changed , really , she just became more of herself in every way .
even if he hadnt consulted the makeshift calendar which he had carved for his tool shed , taylor would have known without any doubt that the time drew closer when the miracle of life would , for a brief moment , let the world hold its breath in reverence for what can be witnessed , but can not be explained .
the women in lilly anns life had begun to gather and made the taylor house the center of their attention .
the birth of a child was a welcome excuse to remember and amplify the female spirit in both women and men .
a serene celebration of the circle of life as it began once again its unending dance .
it is time , john , lilly marlene , willies latest love affair , quickly poked her head into the tool shed where taylor straightened out his tools for the umpteens time , unable to get his thoughts focused on any productive work .
thank you , ill be right in , taylor acknowledged and stopped by the bath shed to clean up on his way into the house .
he found lilly ann wearing a loose fitting , almost translucent summer dress sitting on the sofa in the guest room , casually joking with edie may and lilly grace about the challenges of wearing high heeled sandals while trying to balance the additional cargo in her belly .
her face was glowing with the smile of an angel as she motioned taylor to sit next to her .
you are more beautiful than ever , he whispered into her ear .
yes ?
what are you going to tell me tomorrow ?
she teased him .
that you are more beautiful than ever , taylor smiled at her .
she purred her satisfaction with that answer and snuggled up against him .
i think lilly wants to say hello to us , lilly ann announced a few moments later .
she moved herself into a comfortable position , finding support in the closeness of her mate , as the intervals between her contractions grew shorter .
the other women readied themselves with soft warm towels and blankets to receive the newborn into their arms .
within a few minutes lilly anns breathing became deep and deliberate to help the baby on its first step into the light .
taylors arms steadied her shoulders , his gaze fixed on her face .
as her expression changed from playful curiosity into that of intent listening to the signals of her body , to being swept away by the tide of emotions from joy to bliss to pure ecstasy he knew without seeing that her womb had opened to deliver its precious cargo into the focused stream of wellbeing which we call life .
welcome to planet earth , lilly , lilly ann spoke the first words her daughter would hear .
her voice choked by tears of joy she cradled the baby girl in her arms and helped her find the nourishment she was craving after her exhausting travel .
holding mother and child in his arms , taylor found himself devoid of words that would come even close to expressing the flood of love and gratefulness that poured through him .
so , with no one talking , the only sounds to be heard were soft gurgles and cooing and little burps of a happy hungry little girl enjoying the first meal of her life .
a few weeks later john taylor formed the question in his mind that had been with him ever since lilly ann had told him the news of lilly growing in her womb .
they had come to an understanding that lilly , their lilly , should have a say in the big question if taylor should go back to the civilization he had come from to tell them about the ways of abraham and abrahamster , about law of attraction , about eternal life , vibration , the art of allowing and the amazing power of feeling good .
he would not have missed the birth of his daughter for anything in the world .
holding her in his arms and feeling the blessed pure connection with her inner being turned out to be the crowning experience of his time in the mountains of oz , but the time of decision had come .
there was no use in delaying the inevitable .
is it my place to go and try to teach my old friends of the wonders ive seen and learned here or is my place with you and lilly ann here in flugerton ?
i would so love to see every moment of you growing up to express your spirit in this wonderful time and space , but i also still feel a responsibility and connection to the life i left behind .
please give me clarity to find the path of greatest joy and purpose .
taylor held this question in the center of his mind for what seemed to be an eternity , sixty eight seconds of eternal now .
there was no fear , no doubt and no worry in his mind , just the un rational knowing that whatever would happen would be the perfect unfolding for who he had become in the last three years .
lilly was snuggling her nose into the warmth of taylors arms cradling her and expressed her enjoyment of the moment with soft sounds of wellbeing .
the energy she radiated seemed to amplify the warm glow of the muted lights in the room .
as she opened her bright green eyes a smile spread over john taylors face .
he just could not help it .
starting with a soft wrinkle of the corners of his eyes it claimed his whole face until his lips would not contain his teeth anymore and he burst out into laughter of relief from the answer that had crept into his mind .
lillys tiny hand had wrapped itself around his index finger with a might as if she would never let go of it again , as the distinct voice of a five year old girl blurted out loud within his mind , you are not going anywhere , you big goon !
not before you teach me how to swim , to ride , to dance , to fly and to love .
definitely not before you know my name .
after a short pause a much older voice added softly , when the others are ready to know they will find their way to you .
to be continued cover onward and upward by tony wilson smashwords edition copyright 2012 tony wilson licence notes thank you for downloading this free ebook .
although this is a free book , it remains the copyrighted property of the author , and may not be reproduced , copied and distributed for commercial or non commercial purposes .
if you enjoyed this book , please encourage your friends to download their own copy at smashwords.com , where they can also discover the other works by this author .
thank you for your support .
the moral right of tony wilson to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted .
discover other titles in this trilogy by tony wilson road to recovery 1st novel above and beyond 3rd novel https www.smashwords.com profile tonywilson www.smashwords.com road to recovery isbn 978 1 62050 095 8 cover designed by tony wilson table of contents click on any chapter heading to return to the table of contents cover title page licence notes chapter 1 chapter 2 chapter 3 chapter 4 chapter 5 chapter 6 chapter 7 chapter 8 chapter 9 chapter 10 chapter 11 chapter 12 chapter 13 chapter 14 chapter 15 chapter 16 chapter 17 chapter 18 chapter 19 chapter 20 chapter 21 chapter 22 chapter 23 chapter 24 chapter 25 chapter 26 chapter 27 chapter 28 chapter 29 chapter 30 chapter 31 about the author chapter 1 how long does true love last ?
well in my case it now seems to be for about six months .
following the tragic death of my lovely wife sheila in a horrendous accident just over six years ago i became indecently rich , spent nine months in various hospitals and then almost two years getting my life back together , but as i was now the ninth richest person on the planet it wasnt quite as simple as that .
i inherited a dilapidated airfield el campo just outside san miguel del mar on spains mediterranean coast , engaged multitudes of staff , from ex sas to protect me , to my best friend paul , who fortunately was an architect , to turn el campo into a place worthy of kings .
as well as having assassination and kidnap attempts against me i was also learning to fly , and life was starting to get quite hectic for me so i decided to go on a caribbean cruise , where i heard about the lady s , my new yacht to be .
she was not your run of the mill four berth tupperware yacht , but a destroyer , almost complete with guns but she still has a sting er or two in her tail , and finally , almost a year after being first introduced to her , i was able to take her on a quick trip around africa .
on the way , first we encountered pirates and that is when i first came to the attention of the worlds press and then , on the final leg , just after we had scooted its a nautical term honest into gibraltar , just ahead of the storm of storms , i got talked into taking a couple of royal navy sea king helicopters back out into the raging mid atlantic to rescue the crew of a stricken tanker , accompanied by a television news crew .
that was when i met sandra , their anchor person , and after a very public introduction we became inseparable , and for the first five glorious months it seemed that we never dined at the same table twice , we were definitely the in couple .
from one president in the white house to the other one in the kremlin , from father christmas in lapland to a group of very friendly kangaroos in the outback but thats another story , we were definitely the most sort after , must have guests on the planet , any excuse , no matter how feeble seemed to inspire an invitation .
i have a dutch deckhand on the lady s so that warranted a state banquet in holland , and my filipino 2nd chef got us the best seats in the house for a firework display that must have increased the countrys gross national debt by at least 50 , but fortunately things eventually started to slow down at that pace i wouldnt have lasted out the year .
we had all the tee shirts and videos that we could carry , and photographs by the thousand , taken with us next to just about every other person on the planet , but finally i started to sense that sandra might just be starting to miss her former life .
it was little things like she never started to go very far without her passport even to the loo , and every spare minute that we had we just had to keep up to date with the news , then it happened the uk parliament decided to cock up yet another expenses expos big time .
she went apoplectic of course she had no intentions of leaving me but if she was over there she could definitely have done a better job of that interview than adam , and she would definitely have worn a better outfit than kay meow , so finally we sat down to have a little chat , and little it was , it lasted two minutes and ten seconds , and then she was on the last stage out of dodge in the guise of my big boys toy grumman g450 .
of course we would stay in constant touch , which we did , every hour on the hour , until the g450s wheels connected with dear old blighty , and then it was two days , then a week , and then it was time for another little chat .
we would of course remain the best of friends and possibly with benefits , after all alice my daughter and algernon her son were making plans for their wedding so we would meet up there subject of course to the political situation and mr prime minister when are you going to resign over this expenses debacle .
i realised of course that the last bit had not been directed at me when a very flustered pm tried to tell me all about his latest revamp of the new inner city transport policy , then i heard a very unladylike oh sh t and the microphone , nee mobile phone went dead .
was i mortified over the loss of sandra ?
of course i was , well until i had poured three very hefty bacardi and diet cokes down my throat , by the way do you know that there are no calories in alcoholic drinks if you mix them with a diet mixer , the same as there are no calories in chips french fries for our colonial cousins if they are taken from someone elses plate , and there are definitely no calories in a bar of chocolate if you can eat it all in one go without closing your eyes but i digress , as caroline my director without portfolio , and the wife of my security director david poured me my fourth almost neat diet coke i started to see her point of view .
after the tragic loss of sheila i had started to enter a black hole , emotions wise , and needed something drastic to snap me out of it , and one of the many words that you can use to describe sandra was drastic , along with devastating , and delightful , but definitely not dainty so , according to caroline , she was the right woman for me , at the right time , to snap me out of it .
apparently now that i had tested the water i was over the worst , and after shaking off a hangover that i was deservedly going to have in the morning the world was going to be my oyster , and thinking of all the subtle and not so subtle hints that id had over the past couple of years i fell asleep thinking so many women so little time , but caroline was wrong , which is almost unheard of i didnt have a hangover the next morning , in fact i awoke not thinking of hangovers , sheila , sandra or any other women , i awoke thinking of hunters .
i was remembering a conversation that id had with one of my peers a couple of months earlier , when we were looking over his airfield , when we were visiting on the other side of the pond .
those few months earlier we had just done the obligatory tour of the white house that every visitor to washington just had to do except that our guide was the present incumbent , and all the other touristy bits and pieces in the area , and were starting to be in need of some serious r r , so we willingly accepted an invitation to have a few days down time with a new best buddy .
my new bff was a bit like me , a bit of cash to spare , liked flying , lived on an airfield , so he decided that what i needed was some serious time with boys toys .
sandra was suitably distracted , and we disappeared off into a multitude of aircraft hangars .
he started me off with really vintage aircraft , all string and canvas , not only looking at them but flying them as well .
nope , they didnt tickle my fancy , so we tried out some 2nd world war era aircraft , large and small better , but still not quite there .
then it was an astronomical leap in technology , and i found myself strapped into a modern two seat fighter .
i had once owned a house smaller than its engines , and we flitted around the skies with our backsides on fire , in afterburners for the non aeronautical but still he could see that i wasnt quite there , so after we came to a standstill outside yet another of his hangars he told me that i would just love his sabre .
no he hadnt taken up fencing it was apparently a very shiny north american f86 sabre , which on entering the hangar i totally ignored .
beside it was the most beautiful aircraft that i had ever clapped eyes on , and my gooses started bumping big time .
i reverently approached this work of art , that must surely have been forged in gods own workshop , and ran my fingertips tenderly along the leading edge of one of its sleek wings .
i slowly made my way towards the cockpit and gently , so as not to disturb this sleeping beauty , climbed the ladder to peer into its fifties style interior , and it looked just about my size .
my new best friend , who had been busy talking to himself for the past few minutes , saw the look on my face and told me to try it on for size , so i did and it fitted absolutely perfectly .
eventually he cajoled me out of the cockpit and we slowly walked around to the rear of the aircraft , which was where i spotted something that was not quite right , royal navy was blazoned down its side , and below its rear fuselage was a deck hook .
i was almost 100 positive that the fleet air arm had never operated hawker hunters from its aircraft carriers .
apparently i was right and wrong , they , the faa had operated the beautiful hunter in two forms , as the single seat ga11 ground attack fighter , and the two seat t8 .
both variants had been uses solely by second line squadrons , never embarking on board an aircraft carrier , but they did sterling work in the background .
pilots honed their skills in dog fighting and ground attack in this versatile little aircraft , before they went on to the heavier and more complex scimitars and sea vixens , and the two seaters were used for conversion training .
several of the t8s were even modified to train up buccaneer and harrier pilots and observers on various pieces of new technology before they were let loose on the real thing .
but what about the deck hook ?
i asked , isnt that a bit of wasted hardware ?
apparently not , as operational fixed wing naval aircraft of old came fitted with deck hooks , royal naval air stations airfields had arrester wires at the end of their runways to stop any aircraft that suffered from a brake failure on touch down , from trundling off the end , as opposed to the royal air forces system of nets .
catching the wire caused no damage to the aircraft so it was easier to fit the ga11s and t8s with hooks , rather than equip all their runways with nets just in case of a brake failure .
history lesson over i died and went to heaven , well almost , i went for a trip in his t7 the raf version , and although it was only a two seater , it still got my juices flowing .
later on that evening , as i was looking out over the airfield , re living those memories , second by glorious second , sandra came over and cuddled up beside me , and seductively asked me what i was thinking about .
instead of doing what any red blooded englishman would have done and lied , thinking of page 27 of the kama sutra my darling , or just remembering that vision of loveliness as you stepped out of the shower , i told her the truth , about that lonely little hawker hunter sat in its darkened hangar .
i think that was the beginning of the end .
she flounced off , but before i could chase after her to grovel her forgiveness , mien host , and two former us presidents collared me , the subject what was i going to spend my money on ?
they of course had hidden agendas , but i naively explained that i was spending it quite well thank you very much on el campo , lady s , various properties around the globe , and my efforts at reducing my carbon footprint .
yes they agreed , but apparently i was only spending it on living expenses plus a small guilt trip , i wasnt really doing anything with it .
that got me , i thought i was doing it spectacularly well , but apparently no , i was not , i wasnt sponsoring museums , or football teams , or sporting events , or .. , but they of course had a couple of ideas for me or rather my wallet .
i looked over at the opulent dining table and thought , no such thing as a free lunch , even over here then chuckled to myself , changed the subject back to the hunter and after boring them for an acceptable period of time , i went off to make it up with sandra .
back to reality that next morning , as i lay in bed with a surprisingly clear head , my thoughts were back with that lonely little hunter , and they just wouldnt go away .
in desperation i clambered out of bed and stood under a cold shower for a good ten minutes , dried myself in my new fangled towel less drying machine weird not like the real thing but found that i was still thinking of that beautiful little aircraft .
in desperation i strode out onto my own personal patio that fortunately wasnt overlooked by anyone as i was starkers and watched a gaggle of birds swooping around in front of me dont they just look like hawker hunters ?
usually , when i find myself in a situation like this , i eventually accept that my sub conscious is trying to tell me something , so i made myself a hot leche de almendra almond milk drink , which i had gotten a liking for when the hospital had started weaning me onto more conventional foods , sat down in front of my little black box , and googled hawker hunter , just on the off chance that there might be something of interest to browse through .
in seconds i was close to tmi too much information , there were pages upon pages of it , and the most prevalent statement re occurring was the most beautiful jet aircraft ever to leave the ground perhaps i wasnt alone in my thoughts .
as i surfed the net , i was amazed at the information i could glean on this beautiful little fighter , its pedigree , development , and more importantly , just how many of them were still , or close to being airworthy , and then i made the fatal mistake i wikipediaed .
page one , photo two , sixteen black hunters in a perfect diamond formation .
i quickly copied the photo , pasted it into photoshop , played around with it for a while , and then printed off an a4 photo of sixteen british racing green hunters , which was the colour that i had finally settled on for the lady s. i realised that i had been browsing for more than three hours when my stomach started to grumble , so clutching the photo i decided to catch an informal lunch in the greenhouse the staff canteen , cafeteria , or restaurant , depending on their pay grade same food , same seats , different title , that was all .
i could of course eat in my bed sit , i once called it that within pauls hearing and hed had a purple fit on the spot .
with all his time and my money that he had spent on my rooms they were my suite , quarters , even my sleeping area , they were definitely not a bed sit end of story .
i could also eat in my private dining room , my family dining room , or my larger formal dining room .
i could eat at the nineteenth hole club house , on my very own golf course , and even eat at the bar in the middle of my swimming pool , and i had innumerable number of patios and bbq areas to choose from , but my favouritest one of alices favouritest words place to masticate was in the greenhouse .
if i felt a bit lazy , or wasnt in a chatty frame of mind i would go up to the mezzanine dining area , along with my senior staff , to be waited on and people watch , but normally i would just queue jump at the cafeteria , pick out a starter , and then take it to a table that was already occupied i just loved chatting informally to my staff .
apparently it was a bit nerve racking for the new comers but i learned all about their jobs around el campo , their families and their aspirations , and i think it also kept me in touch with reality .
so far no one had abused the situation and bent my ear , but i daresay it was bound to happen one day .
i was just about to step into the glass bubble that served as my personal lift when i felt a breeze around my nether regions oops i was still starkers , so another quick shower with real fluffy towels this time , put on some clothes , and a phone call later i walked quickly through my lift , and out onto the walkway around the atrium .
after watching caroline and cindy lazily swimming up to the mushroom fountain and settling themselves down for a mummy daughter cuddle ahhh !
i walked around the glass walkway to the senior staff quarters .
at this moment there was only one full time resident in one of the suites , it was marcel , my chef .
he had never taken me up on my offer of living off camp , in either a rather nice villa , or a luxury apartment , as befitted his station he just didnt want to be too far away from his beloved new kitchen .
the end of the corridor led out onto the mezzanine dining area , where i hoped to find two people in particular , and my timing was perfect , which was not surprising as i had just accessed teddys diary he is my flying instructor on my all seeing black box , and i knew that he was always punctual , especially where his wife was concerned he was definitely late at his peril , for lunch with beryl , and inma was just taking their orders as i arrived .
hi boss , care to join us , teddy chirped .
it is mr michaels to you edward , and yes would you please care to join us mr michaels .
i hadnt realised that they were coming apart , but i sat down anyway , feigning surprise at finding them there .
inma took my order i was feeling adventurous so i went for a spanish tuna salad starter , followed by an egg , bacon chips combo .
marcel would of course hit the roof again , after all he , the finest chef in spain hes very self disparaging , who had the finest staff in europe , creating gastronomic delicacies in the finest kitchen in the world , just to solely cater for the finest patron boss in french in the galaxy , and all he ever seemed to want was egg and chips , and the moron french for moron didnt even have the courtesy to call them french fries .
as we slowly sipped our wine and or zero alcohol beer and waited for our starters to arrive i casually mentioned to beryl that i had heard on the grapevine that she had been moaning to all and sundry about the crap organisation in my household , and that she thought she could do a better job herself , with one hand tied behind her back .
the actual statement had been that she thought that the floral arrangements on the tables were very nice , but she felt that she could have done just a teensy bit better .
teddy choked on his beer , and beryl went an awful shade of white i must stop starting conversations like this , someday someone might take me seriously then i went on to explain , i had a vacancy for a senior manager in charge of table decorations and all things horticultural , did she want the job ?
she could have a staff , designer greenhouses the type that grew food , not served it and a large small holding to enable her to grow fresh food and flowers for the house .
why on earth was i bothering about potatoes and pansies when i had hawker hunters to think about ?
i needed teddy full time .
recently he had hinted , in our little chats as we careened around the skies in various aeroplanes that beryl was starting to comment on how quiet the villa was without him , which was a subtle way of saying that she was getting bored , and that she was missing the kitchen garden at their cottage in the cotswolds .
in other words spend more time with me or we are back off to england , and so no more flying in the sunshine , for you , sunshine , so he had cut down on his flying hours , minusculey , and tried to involve her more in el campo life , i.e .
lunch in my greenhouse , but his plan didnt seem to be working very well , hence my dastardly plan that i had hastily concocted half an hour ago over a conference call with maria p.a .
and eddy ex clerk of works , who was now firmly ensconced in his new position as estate manager .
if i could just get beryl on board then teddy would be a pushover , and by the end of our starters teddy was on his third zero alcohol beer and beryl was asking where her greenhouses would be situated , and if she could employ their neighbours jos and luisa .
victory i thought , and then she twigged , whats the catch ?
i want teddy to become my full time director of aviation .
oh you can have him she said i was only getting a little bored , now that i have something to do , you can do what you like with him when can i start ?
can you wait until we have had dessert ?
i asked .
teddy was just starting his second alcohol laden guinness and third mind blowing dessert when it finally sank in .
you only have two corporate jets and half a dozen light aircraft he reminded me , that hardly warrants a full time director of aviation .
you are forgetting about my squadron of fighters i politely reminded him .
what bloody squadron of fighters he spluttered , had i finally gone around the bend .
these i said , and turned over the photograph .
sh t he said .
language edward not in front of andrew .
at last , someone else that will be calling me by my christian name .
among his many postings in the royal air force , group captain edward teddy heslop had had a stint with the famous red arrows aerobatic display team .
he started as an ordinary team member then proceeding quickly on to flight commander and singleton solo display specialist , and then finally going on to lead the team for two seasons , before a promotion meant that he had to leave them temporarily .
three years later he was back with them as the team manager , so if anybody was going to get me an aerobatic display team it was group captain teddy heslop retired .
think about it , its really very easy , i say get me a display team please teddy , and he says ok , here it is i think not , so we went into his new office , in my vast emporium i had a couple or three offices going free , and we didnt see the light of day for about two weeks .
where the hawker hunter is concerned you really are spoilt for choice , so it was decisions , decisions , decisions , and what we finally settled on was that , subject to availability , the basic team would be made up of sixteen aircraft , twelve of them mark f6 single seater fighters or ga11 export equivalents and four two seater t7s or t8s , with , if we could get them , one of each as spares .
early on in our deliberations we contacted hawker hunter repair ltd hhr who sent a couple of their design team hot foot over to assist us , and quickly we all agreed that the basic f6 airframe and the rolls royce avon engine were outstanding , so no major changes there , but the radios , instruments , and various 1950s era electrics were definitely passing their sell by dates , so would inevitably be letting me down on a fairly regular basis .
this led to our my first major decision inside the cockpit the flight , engine , flap , and undercarriage controls would all remain original the bits down the sides , but the instrument panel the bit in front would be turned into glass .
all the cluttered fifties style dials and switches would be removed and safely stored for refitting if a future operator was a purist and a modern day so called glass cockpit would be retrofitted in its place .
my pilots would have the best visual displays , the most up to date navigational instruments and the latest communications equipment , and it would also standardise all the cockpits , ensuring that every aircraft was identical .
any pilot would be able to fly any aircraft without wondering where the watzit switch was .
purists may scream blue murder but i had an obligation to provide the best possible working environment for my pilots .
one of the few down sides to the hunter as a fighter had been its limited range , so an absolute must for all my aircraft were mod.228 wet wings with its distinctive leading edge dog tooth , as all my aircraft must be able to carry a full internal fuel load , plus four drop tanks when transiting , for example from el campo to the uk .
i didnt want them having to stop at every motorway services for a quick top up .
hhr ltd readily agreed to strip all the aircraft that i could obtain down to their component parts , have them refurbished , fit the all moving tailplane that had been fitted to the later aircraft if it wasnt already fitted , install the new instrument panels and get it certified , have each aircraft resprayed inside and out and presented back to me in a guaranteed better than brand new condition , for a better than brand new price .
hhr ltd had just started making skilled fitters redundant due to the recession , now they could reverse the trend and perhaps see it out with my order , and i was definitely about to start spending some serious money , well at least kermitt would be happy .
where do you find sixteen assorted hawker hunter mark 6 , 7 and 8s , certainly not at your local second hand aircraft shop , well that was not quite true .
in between major policy decisions i had a specialist team set up to start scouring the world for suitable aircraft , and within days they picked up three that were up for sale , and the worlds financial crisis was yet again working in my favour .
luxury toys were now becoming an unnecessary drain on capital expenditure , or some such boring thing , so along came a few more , and then there were the gifted amateurs who had sunk all their savings into a couple of surplus aircraft and set up small display teams on a shoestring , hoping for big bucks from the display circuit .
wrong , even the big display organisers were feeling the pinch so were cutting back , and even the one off birthday treat trips had all but dried up , so after making a couple of these teams offers that they couldnt refuse i looked out of my bedroom window on day ten of the hunt for hunters at four single and two two seat garishly painted aircraft parked in my front garden , the bit that was pretended it was an airfield , but then the flood turned to a trickle , and finally it looked as though we would fall short of our target , until a bright young thing on the hunting team came up with a brilliant idea .
they the hunting team had all , almost overnight , become experts on the hawker hunter and all its variants , but not all the available aircraft that they had scrutinized had met with my strict criteria , but they still knew where they were , and air museums around the world had an amount of almost flyable and non flying but still in reasonably good condition f6s , but were reluctant to let them go , unless it was for silly money , so how about some wheeling and dealing , so an air museum in australia accepted an airworthy low mileage f4 as a straight swop for its static display passed its sell by date f6 , and so it went on , and in just over three weeks i had my aircraft , including the two spares , on paper anyway .
now all i needed to do was get them to dorset enter the lawyers .
that was the easy part out of the way , but early on i realised that obtaining the aircraft was only going to be the first of many steps .
to operate the aircraft efficiently i would need a ready supply of spares , handling and specialist support equipment , maintenance crews , and pilots , then three seemingly insurmountable problems reared their ugly heads , drop tanks , starter cartridges and brake pads .
with sixteen aircraft needing four drop tanks each , that meant that i needed a staggering sixty four individual drop tanks at least , and we had less than half that number coming with the aircraft .
brake pads for the hunter were as scarce as rocking horse doo doo according to teddy , but starter cartridges suddenly became less of a problem when one of the designers remembered that there was a modification that could be carried out on the avon engine that enabled an electric starter to be fitted .
as i was having a modern heavy duty battery fitted in all my aircraft , it would take the strain off everyday routine starts , and we could save the doo doo cartridges for air show mass start ups , but that was tomorrows problem there were six hunters parked in my garden , and it was party time .
part of the deal with the two all but destitute private display outfits was that i would first hire them lock , stock , and barrels of aviation fuel for some personal self gratification as all the paperwork was going through .
the only downside was that they had to relocate to el campo for at least two or three weeks .
it was tough but somebody had to do it .
not only did this unexpected influx of much needed cash help their cash flow situation , but they also quickly twigged that if i was purchasing sixteen airworthy aircraft , then i would almost certainly be hiring sixteen type qualified pilots to fly them , and they were just about to get a head start in the hiring stakes , then teddy started to turn into the proverbial pain in the rectal orifice .
for two days i had six very keen pilots trying to get me into an f6 obviously trying to gain brownie points , and all he could do was send me off on bumps and circuits in one of the t8s .
admittedly on the last two trips i had been bumping and circuiting with an empty seat beside me , but it was still in a two seater .
he agreed with me that my logbook no longer had that brand new look about it , and i had all the necessary bits of paper to get me into a single seat jet , but i really must take it slowly , i didnt want to bend one of his new aircraft now did i .
he had now used the word his three times , the first time he had quickly apologised and corrected himself sorry your aircraft , but the last two times he hadnt , and as i clambered out of the cockpit everybody but teddy could see that i was starting to get a tad peed off , so one very brave soul , who was later to be rewarded , and become one of my flight commanders , suggested to teddy that wasnt it about time he took up a single seater .
before teddy could say anything i totally agreed with him and headed full steam towards a purplish apparition with green stripes that was parked nearby .
just because it wasnt the right colour didnt mean that it wasnt a lean , mean flying machine , so after a quick walk round , waggling a few things on the way , it was time to kick the tyres and light the fire , and as i sat there firmly strapped in , i braced myself and thought now comenceth a journey that i will remember for the rest of my life and pressed the button nothing .
it must be something to do with the heat a rather embarrassed soon to be ex owner muttered .
i checked all the switches just in case it was finger trouble and pressed the button again , and still nix , zilch , nada , nunca , nowt .
i looked along the line of aircraft and thought one down , three to go and clambered out .
number two was a bright lemon thing with large red and blue spots all over it i nearly gave it a miss and quickly wished that i had .
i pressed the button and the jet pipe temperature gauge needle tried to screw itself out of the instrument panel , and a quick glance in the rear view mirror showed a lance of flame streaking out of the jet pipe , and halfway across the airfield .
in the nick of time i remembered that a the ejection seat was not a zero zero rated one zero forward speed zero height .
b there were no cartridges in it anyway .
civilianized hunters normally had their ejection seats de activated , although hopefully mine wouldnt , so i didnt pull the handle , instead c i closed the throttle and the low pressure fuel cut off valve .
viola total silence and not a funeral pyre in sight .
two down , two to go , was someone trying to tell me something ?
the next in line looked fairly normal , although it was covered in white on red crosses , not a good omen it was an ex swiss air force aircraft that had not yet been re painted .
perhaps it was going to be third time lucky , but before i could do the dirty deed and press the button teddy flounced up the ladder to give me my last minute instructions , again .
climb to 2,000 feet , raising the undercarriage and flaps as you go , throttle back slightly to 7,800 rpm and do a gentle left hand circuit , then undercarriage and flaps down again , and ease the aircraft gently onto the runway .
taxi slowly back to the dispersal remembering the brake pads situation , shut down the engine and then we will de brief .
i nodded benignly to him and he reluctantly got down , thinking as he went that they should really have a second seat in single seat aircraft , just to cover situations like this .
then the ladder was removed and i was on my own .
i sat there for a few moments savouring the moment yet again then pressed the button , and this time the avon worked as advertised , just like a swiss clock only louder .
ground locks and chocks away , and i quickly taxied out to the end of the runway sod the brake pads i was paying for them after all , and yet again sat savouring the moment , then after a quick chat with chalky in the tower it was on with the power , off with the brakes , and onwards and upwards , on the journey of a lifetime .
i remembered the bit about the flaps and undercarriage , and i even remembered to ease the throttle back slightly , and then i had serious lapse of memory .
varying neither right nor left i was quickly going in an upwardly direction , and upward , and upward .
i quickly passed 2,000 feet , and then 5,000 feet .
10 , 20 , and 30,000 feet slid by effortlessly , and then finally it was the turn of 40,000 feet .
then i started to ease the nose and the throttle forward at the same time , and i was quickly hurtling back down towards terra firma at a forty degree angle .
the altimeter quickly started to unwind , with the asi air speed indicator heading in the opposite direction , and then suddenly the inevitable happened bang , i had finally gone solo through the sound barrier , and it was a fabulous feeling .
as i was heading towards terra firma at mach one i reluctantly eased the throttle back , and when it was safe to turn without ripping the wings off i did a quick 180 degree turn and headed for home , and as i requested permission to join the circuit and land , chalky had a chuckle in his voice , i heard you had a good time boss but i dont think he was looking forward too much to having teddy as his new line manager .
as the avon wound down and the ladder was clipped into place i reluctantly vacated the cockpit , and then spotted teddy bearing down on me with a face like thunder , so i quickly turned my back on him , moved up to the nose of the aircraft and gave it a big fat kiss , and in a voice loud enough for him to hear i said thanks for a wonderful ride baby you were worth every one of my pennies .
you certainly wont be going back to blighty just yet , then i turned defiantly to face teddy .
swallowing hard he forced a smile on his face and asked if i had enjoyed my first flight in a mark 6 actually it was a mk 58 export variant but who was arguing .
yes it was exhilarating i said .
i think i might just go up again later .
if id had super vision i would have seen chalky rolling around in his control tower , binoculars dangling from their neck strap , tears streaming down his cheeks and howling with laughter , perhaps he wouldnt be putting in his notice just yet .
over the next few weeks a steady stream of aircraft started to arrive in dorset and hhr entered into the spirit of the things with gusto , i even approved overtime and a limited night shift .
i was going to keep the swiss single seat mk 58 and the t7 that i hadnt grown to hate , as play things until some modified ones turned up , but teddy fortunately changed my mind , i kept them all .
the two unserviceable aircraft had had relatively minor problems , which hopefully would never re occur after the re fits , and i also diverted a further two flyable f6s from dorset , which meant that i had half my aircraft at el campo , unmodified , why ?
well first off you can not have hangars full of aircraft teddy had purloined x and y hangars over the other side of the golf course , without crew rooms full of pilots and maintainers to go with them .
not unless all you want them to do was sit and gather dust , so a team leader and four flight commanders were the first positions up for grabs , and as word had finally got out about a new display team that was about to be formed , i was starting to get sacks full of unsolicited mail , usually including a current c.v. and a copy of a flying log , especially after teddy made a few surreptitious phone calls .
paul had once told me that councils had to advertise and hold interviews for staff positions that became vacant , even if they had already decided to promote the person that was temporarily filling the post .
bureaucracy and political correctness , meet union might .
now please meet p.i .
man political incorrectness man , we scoured the c.v.s and placed each of them in one of three piles .
1 possible leaders , for us to deliberate over .
2 possible team members , for them to deliberate over , and a 3 not a hope in hells chance of anyone deliberating over them pile .
although i did like the one from a young man who had nearly four hours solo , and once saw a hunter at an air show .
what i hadnt realised was that pilots the world over , especially aerobatic pilots , were very skilled and well educated people , and usually had egos twice the size of a jumbo jet , they were certainly not backwards in coming forwards , so in pile 1 we surprisingly ended up with not only eight ex red arrows pilots but also three each that had flown with the spanish and portuguese national teams , two french ex team members , five americans from various teams over there , four civilian team members , and a rather pretty looking young russian girl .
teddy had taken one look at her enclosed photograph and placed her details straight onto pile 1 , not checking the c.v. , not consulting me , it was straight on the pile perhaps the gentleman preferred blondes , i would have to have a serious word with him later .
it would have been a waste of time and energy to advertise so teddy contacted each of the twenty six by phone , explained what we intended to do , and as this was now looking to be a serious enterprise he needed them to commit two weeks to learning to fly the hunter , and then perform a fairly complicated formation display with the other applicants , perfect and perform a solo display , plus have stringent medicals and a lengthy interview that included a fifteen minute presentation on how they would lead the new team .
all twenty six instantly said they would be at el campo in three weeks time , but only seventeen required the offered first class airline tickets , the rest would be flying in , in their own aircraft at this rate my home would soon start to look like an airfield ! ! !
how do you keep eight aging hunters in the air ?
i dont know , but i now know a man that does .
topsy turner came with three of the hunters , not the more garishly painted ones , the other ones .
he was a fleet air arm chief air fitter airframes and engines , later to be changed by those upstairs to chief air engineering mechanic mechanical he never did like that .
god , or rather his captain had turned him from a leading air mechanic into a petty officer air fitter many years earlier , and only god would change him back .
even on his discharge papers , when he was finally put out to pasture had he put in the rank rating box caf a e .
topsy , his nickname had nothing to do with the fact that he was as bald as a coot , took his nice little pension thank you very much and went to work for airworks ltd , doing the same job but for more money and no uniform .
then his wife took ill and he became a full time carer , although when his daughter was able to lend a hand he also became a volunteer part time mechanic for a private hunter display team at his local airport , just to keep his hand in .
when his wife finally succumbed to the tumour , his heart was not into going back to work for airworks , and the display team could only offer him little more than expenses , but that was enough , he had his pension , a very generous insurance pay out , and a tidy bit left in the bank after he sold their his four bed roomed house and bought a small flat , not only was the house too large for one , but it also had too many memories in it .
he quickly became an indispensable part of the team as they appreciated a first rate mechanic , and it was topsy who had quickly sorted out the other teams duff polite word for knackered aircraft out , he changed the plugs or something , and was starting to enjoy the bronzie , bronzie weather sunbathing weather to the uninitiated at el campo .
one cloudy day , when he couldnt work on his tan he asked me if there was any chance of him having a jolly in a t8 .
no problem topsy , just bring your own bag , and so whilst trying to make him sick , we had a little chat , one thing lead to another and i made one of my on the spot decisions or should that be in the air decisions , would he like to become my crew chief ?
he willingly accepted , and from that moment on everything was to be done ship shape and bristol fashion , and nautical terminology became mandatory .
its a good job that i already know my port from my starboard .
topsy quickly got things organised sorted , aircraft cabs of all shapes and sizes suddenly started to deliver contract mechanics , equipment , stores , and all the other necessary bits and pieces that were essential to keep sixteen vintage aircraft in the air , and the top floor of mi casa , the name that i had finally come up with for my new home , quickly came into use as temporary accommodation , marcus he had sort of come with the airfield was having a whale of a time .
one morning i was even woken at the crack of noon by a hercules going into reverse as it backed up to x ray x hangar to deliver , among other things three massey ferguson tractors .
theyd had special road tyres fitted as they were going to be used for towing the aircraft and the heavier bits of ground equipment around the place , not ploughing fields .
the hangar floors , sorry decks , were scrubbed , and scrubbed , and scrubbed again , then when they were to topsys liking white lines were meticulously painted on them to denote individual aircraft bays , ground equipment bays , fire point accesses , and a wide clear way for when the aircraft were being towed in and out , as unfortunately hunters dont have the luxury of folding wings , not even the navalised ones .
offices and workshops were equipped , and he even had a top of the range lathe installed for when a tiffy spit ask a sailor if you want to know why arrived , but his most important task of all was to get the ground crew crew room up and running , with its coffee boat , sarnie making area galley , and a made to measure uckers board made by his own fair hands .
what may you ask is an uckers board , well it looks just like standard ludo board , only its about three feet square and built like a brick outhouse .
the pieces are created by decimating a perfectly serviceable wooden broom handle , and must be capable of withstanding being flung across the room and or slammed down on the table at regular intervals usually every few minutes .
two oversized dice are used and when the intricacies of suck backs , blow backs and mixy blobs were mastered it quickly became the game of choice of every well deserving psychopath .
i quickly grew to love or hate it , depending if i was winning or losing , and topsy and i soon became a formidable mixed doubles ?
team .
chapter 2 just after the hercules incident teddy received a phone call , not a particularly uncommon occurrence you may think , except that apparently it had been quite vague , and was all the more unusual because it had originated in precision switzerland .
he was just about to settle down to a rather late breakfast after all it was saturday , with his now perfectly happy green fingered wife , when his mobile phone sounded off it was the dam busters tone .
it was one of his contacts from when the hunt had been on for the aircraft .
he , the man in switzerland , had just had a phone call from a lady , also in switzerland .
she , the said lady , had heard from a friend that also lived in switzerland that he , the first man in switzerland that is , was looking for hunter aircraft .
apparently her husband had recently passed away and she was now left with a crashed hunter and some odd bits and pieces in switzerland .
as the address was way out in the sticks he hadnt visited her yet but was he , teddy , in spain , still interested ?
and if teddy were to save him a trip then he would forgo the finders fee what a sucker .
he , teddy , took down the ladies address and phone number and told him , the man in switzerland , that he would look into it and of course he would still receive his finders fee if there was anything worth having what a plonker , he was thinking brake pads , and immediately phoned frau englbund in switzerland , who had just finished her breakfast and was starting to pack a suitcase .
yes she still had all those bits of junk but no he couldnt come and have a look at them on monday , he could come today or no day , as she was flying to america tomorrow evening .
he liked the sound of all those bit of junk .
this is where i come in , teddy phoned me , and as the sun was still definitely not over the yard arm i was sound asleep im positive that he still hadnt forgiven me for stealing his f6 the other day and wondered if i would care to take a trip to switzerland in the g450 .
i had never flown into a swiss airport before and the one that he was thinking of using had an interesting approach , so at eleven oclock on the dot my grumman smoothly lifted off with yours truly at the controls , and pointed itself in the general direction of helvetia , thats what the swiss call themselves on their stamps .
beside me sat teddy , half asleep and with a blob of marmalade on his shirt , and behind me , in my hand crafted bespoke cabin it had been specially designed for my every personal convenience was now just plain james wood , ex inspector of so1 special protection branch , inma she also came with the airfield she cleaned , and things and topsy .
after he and david had been completely exonerated following the early demise of tweedle dee at the ok corral , during the attempted kidnapping by my daughters girl friend ! !
! , james received a reprimand from his superiors for not shooting david and charlie stone dead .
apparently he was on a too lower a pay grade to think .
david and charlie had guns in their hands he was there to protect the lord chief justice of england and wales , so he should have shot them both dead , just like that .
the fact that they , the guns , were pointing in the wrong directions , and that he knew that david was a good guy was totally irrelevant .
at the inquest david had dropped a subtle hint that there might always be a job as my minder waiting , if ever he decided that he wanted to work for a living , so a few days later , after he , a highly trained police inspector , was sent out to buy a bottle of perfume for her ladyships impending birthday , he made a decision , and on return he placed the bottle , his warrant card and side arm in front of his lordship , turned and walked out with his lordship shouting at his retreating back i presume you are resigning then .
i suppose as a judge he was trained to pick up on such subtleties james never did receive recompense for the perfume , but was now my full time minder , as david was directoring all over the place , and charlie was usually showing agnetha his girlfriend something interesting in the store cupboard .
inma had arrived into this world as one half of a single parent family her father had been the fly by night deck hand on carloss my captain of uniformed security guards father in laws boat .
the evening before that fateful final voyage he had finally convinced a rather pretty , if not slightly gullible local girl that this next trip could very well be my last , if something terrible happened and i am still a virgin .
that line usually worked , and this time was no exception except that it came to pass that the first part became true , even if the second part wasnt , and nine months later inmaculada de concepcin de silva ennamora thankfully inma for short arrived in san miguel del mar , but nobody believed her mother when she named her , she was just one half of an easy family , but over the years the villagers slowly started to respect them both as her mother slaved away at every cleaning job that came to hand , no job was too small or too dirty .
it wasnt uncommon for her to have the thankless job of cleaning the front entrances of over a dozen apartment blocks at the same time , as well as holding down a full time factory job , and doing each one cheerfully .
inma was a bright young thing at school , but when the opportunity arose for her to go on to college she had to turn it down , it was time for her to start helping her mother bring in the bread full time , not just holidays .
her first job was at one of the local hotels as a chambermaid and she loved it , meeting all those new people from far flung places , then disaster struck , san miguel del mar was on the decline so the hotel closed .
she then took over some of her mothers more strenuous jobs as she her mother that is wasnt getting any younger , and picked up a new one of her own , as part time office cleaner for the security firm that was looking after the old airfield , and when thomas a brummy security guard ex teacher started teaching his colleagues english she joined in with a vengeance , and so when mr michaels moved into his temporary accommodation on the airfield , inma quickly volunteered her services as cleaner , and suddenly found herself permanently employed as a maid .
yet again she was over the moon , and as a founder member of mr michaels happy band she found that she had some rather nice perks , like looking after him when he went off in the grumman at short notice , and she had been the first one to take up el jefs the bosss offer of free flying lessons for anyone working for him when that nice teddy bear joined them , and she quite often got some quality stick time on these trips as well .
topsy was not a happy little bunny about coming along at first , he had much too much work to do at el campo , even on a saturday , but he was a natural manager and so quickly delegated .
grabbing his passport and an overnight bag just in case he had spent too long on martsu to fall for that one and was now reclining in the sumptuous swivel rocker he could definitely quickly become accustomed to this life .
once we were on a steady heading i vacated the hot seat and let inma take over , and as i stood in the galley dunking my pyramid into a mug of boiling water im very fussy about how i take my tea , after first emptying two sachets of instant cappuccino into my maids mug , and retrieving a chilled perrier from the fridge for teddy , i looked at my crew chief twirling in my favourite armchair , and my body guard snoring quietly on my settee , and thought there is definitely something very wrong with this picture , thank god its only a short flight , i wont have time to get the hoover out .
just before i could at least get a duster out it was time for me to take my place upfront again , and as i settled into the still warm seat i looked out of the cockpit at the airfield that teddy was pointing to , i had seen larger window boxes .
i gulped and turned to inma , have i got any brown trousers on board ?
roit sorry aar kid , yuz spare trazis r back yam .
aah kid apparently is brummyeese for boss .
i took one more look at that insignificant little blot on the swiss landscape , tightened my seat straps , closed my eyes , and pushed the stick forward .
when we came to a stop , inches from the foot of the appropriate mountain i opened them again , twisted the nose wheel steering knob , blipped the port engine see im learning and taxied smartly to arrivals i hadnt needed those extra trousers after all .
the local heavies that david had organised for us had two black stretch hummers waiting for us , complete with tinted windows and snow chains .
now that worried me , the snow chains bit at least , thank god i hadnt come in shorts and flip flops apparently we were going above the snowline .
as we slid to a standstill in front of a very strange looking house teddy commented on the fact that they didnt seem to have many hangars in this residential area , and topsy didnt go much on the architecture , and they both had very valid points .
the house in front of us seemed to have your average very picturesque three up , three down sort of swiss chalets at either end , with a small block of council flats interconnecting them , very strange .
we made our way up to a very unimposing door in the middle of the flats and were greeted by a very rotund , if not slightly henpecked looking woman .
my e grade a level result in french bears testament to my linguistic skills so teddy , who apparently was an ardent skier in his spare time and could speak the lingo like a native took the lead , as this must be frau englbund .
please call me frau englbund , you must be the people coming to see about the junk , please hurry up i still havent finished packing yet , and dont bring any snow into the house , then she looked at me , half smiled and said ive seen you on the television , you may call me heidi .
plan b , use english .
you didnt say you could speak english teddy moaned , having struggled through a painful conversation with her over the phone a few hours earlier .
you didnt ask she snapped , and disappeared inside , i was already starting to like her .
i followed teddy through the front door , kicking the snow that had deigned to adhere to my guccis off on the way across the snow porch , through another door , and into his back .
he had stopped dead in his tracks .
i looked over his shoulder and straight down the barrels of four 30mm aden cannons , and attached to the cannons was a gleaming f58 hunter , and it looked in absolute pristine condition .
if the road outside had been long enough i would have quite happily gotten into it and flown it home .
as i looked around it was obvious that originally there had just been the two chalets , but then a concrete slab had been laid in the gap between them , the hunter had then been placed on it and the interconnecting part of the structure built around it .
the gleaming f58 stood in centrally heated comfort , and was surrounded by an aladdins cave of spare parts , and looking out of a rear window i saw that there were three very large store rooms in the huge garden , and i suspected that we would find yet more treasures out there , i just had to find out all about this beautiful aircraft .
heidi finally took us into her cosy little lounge in one of the original chalets after i had promised her faithfully to personally fly her to america in the g450 if she missed her flight , to fill us in on the hunters history .
whats a g450 ?
she said , took one look at a photograph of a g450 on teddys proffered laptop , and promptly went on a go slow packing wise .
her husband had been a very senior aircraft maintenance officer in the swiss air force , and he had spent virtually all his air force career on hunter squadrons , helping to keep , according to him , the finest aircraft in the world airworthy .
then along came large black clouds in the shape of shiny new f a 18 hornets , and as they started at arrive , to replace the venerable hunter , procedures started to change .
one afternoon a new pilot had a problem with his hunters landing gear and its right undercarriage collapsed .
as the aircraft slid to a graceful halt on the runway its right wing and tail unit were damaged , but instead of sending the aircraft to the maintenance unit for repair , the airfields senior aircraft maintenance officer samo for short took one quick look at it , assessed it as beyond economic repair and declared it scrap .
hubby despaired at this travesty of justice and persuaded the samo to let him have it to train new mechanics on .
good idea , came the reply , so he was awarded 10 brownie points and it was loaded onto a trailer and deposited unceremoniously in an empty hanger .
three weeks later a refuelling bowser found a patch of black ice and slid gracefully into another f58 everything concerning the hunter is graceful , impacting at the join between the left hand side of the cockpit and the left intake wing , as the swiss navy didnt have shares in the hunter it was still left , and not port .
come to think of it they didnt have shares in anything else either switzerland is a land locked country .
it looked nasty , what with instruments dangling from the carnage , and its engine seized up solid , so the same thing happened again , the samo took one look at it , assessed it , declared it scrap , hubby asked for it , was given 10 more brownie points and it was quickly towed to the once empty hangar , alongside his first acquisition , and it didnt take hubby long to work out that between the two wrecks lurked a whole aircraft just craving to burst forth , so the first project for some wannabee maintenance supervisors and the next intake of trainee mechanics , under his personal supervision of course , was to turn the two into one and a half .
over time the work was completed and there stood one as new hybrid f58 and one very sick one .
he was as proud as punch for what his men had achieved , but no one else on the airfield cared a jot , the new f a 18s were arriving in force and the hunters were quickly becoming relics of the past .
as the stores department needed more room for the f a 18s spares anything with a hunter reference number on it was deposited unceremoniously in the getting quite full hangar .
spare engines , ejection seats , drop tanks , maintenance manuals unfortunately most of them were in english so they had never been used and hundreds of boxes of various shapes and sizes .
the hunters werent the only things getting close to retirement , so was hubby , and he wasnt much looking forward to working on those noisy new machines , and then a series of unrelated events came together quite nicely for him .
first his favourite uncle passed away and left him a tidy bit of money and a nice chalet up in the mountains .
he visited it and found that the chalet next door was up for sale at a reduced price for a quick sale , and the space between the two would comfortably take a hunter .
he offered the asking price for the ridiculously under priced chalet , and it was snapped up immediately .
the vendor , who was a builder , even threw in a concrete base between the two properties as a thank you .
returning to the base he quite openly put in a request to purchase hulk 112 , as his new hybrid fighter was now legally called .
as he had sufficient brownie points they practically gave it to him just as long as he got it off the airfield at his own expense , no one even bothered to go and have a look at it .
he then visited the stores department , where two stores officers were off sick and the third was covering for them , as well as doing his own jobs one of which was assessing surplus and redundant stock .
after finding that quite a few of the labels had fallen off the boxes in hubbys hangar the vastly overworked stores officer quickly devised a fool proof system of assessing the price of the surplus stock .
measure the length of the box crate item and multiply it by x francs , swings and roundabouts he said , thus hubby became the proud owner of things like a box of 24 not so practical sets of aircraft foul weather blanks for the same price as two completely refurbished undercarriage assemblies .
as x was so low both boxs combined came to the same total as the bill for his and his wifes recent anniversary dinner and two brand new rolls royce avon jet engines that were still in their delivery cocoons cost him the equivalent of a new outboard motor each .
the next thing to fall into place was a new batch of mechanics and supervisors , so using his own equipment the new team took off the wings , lifted the aircraft , retracted its undercarriage and gently loaded it onto his never been used before road transportation cradle , and the wings were slotted into their very own padded cradles .
they then sealed them all up against inclement weather and successfully passed that part of their training .
next samo sent him a memo did he want hulk 113 ?
no thank you very much sir , everything of any interest to him had been stripped from it long ago and legitimately purchased by him through the overworked stores officer , and so without leaving his office samo assigned hulk 113 to the crusher .
hulk 112 had been used as a test piece for a new batch of trainee aircraft paint sprayers and the different aircraft serial numbers , on the different parts of the aircraft had been standardised , so quite unintentionally any reference to the other cannibalised aircraft was obliterated .
the final piece to slip into place was that the commanding officer of the base summonsed him to his office of a quiet chat .
as he hubby was getting fairly close to retirement it was just not going to be cost effective for the air force to send him to america to retrain on the f a 18s , would he consider early retirement ?
too right sunshine or words to that effect , but what about all my bits and pieces in the old hangar ?
oh you can have the hangar rent free for a year , consider it part of your severance package , just switch out the lights and leave the keys at the main gate when you have finished with it .
with plenty of time on his hands he had the firm that had taken hulk 113 to the crusher , deliver hulk 112 to its new concrete base between his two chalets , and they didnt even bill him for the move as they thought it was just another part of their contract with the air force , and a new class of mechanics were persuaded to have an adventure training weekend at his new home , with the promise of all the food that they could eat , and once the hunter was out of its cradle , the wings were back on , and the whole aircraft temporarily covered , all the beer that they could drink as well .
eventually the interconnecting building was carefully constructed around his beloved aeroplane , and he reverently uncovered it , and spent the rest of his days which unfortunately werent that many cleaning and servicing it as if it was still an operational aircraft , and cataloguing all his spares , by name , reference number , quantity , location , and invoice number on his battered old computer , and the last thing that he thought of , as he sat quietly in the cockpit , before he had his coronary was i really must get around to removing those 30mm cannon shells from the gun pack .
after some frantic phone calls teddy started tapping away on the late hubbys steam driven computer , topsy started clambering over the piles of treasure trove , james started making himself comfortable in a convenient ejection seat , and inma disappeared out of the front door with heidi and my bit of plastic for a trip to the local designer supermarket .
we had decided to spend the night there there are plenty of spare beds heidi had assured us , as we were definitely time limited , and neither teddy , topsy nor i wanted to leave , just in case someone else sneaked in and grabbed all the goodies .
as i wandered around the room looking at all the artefacts i realised that the only non aircraft thing in the entire room was an old black and white photo above the door .
we had been greeted by a younger version of that face when we arrived so it was safe to say that this had to be his wifes mother , but why was it in hubbys play room ? , then i had an idea .
clambering into the cockpit i flicked on the battery , switched on the gyro gun sight and looked through it .
yes i was right i was looking at a spot just between his mother in laws eyes , so i curled my finger around the trigger and thought one quick squeeze , then teddy gave a whoop of joy .
blast i thought , perhaps another day , and vacated the cockpit and wandered over to him .
he pointed to the screen and highlighted was brake pads part number h 6537684 store room c bay 3 1 box .
his initial joy was now tempered after seeing that the quantity was only 1 box , but beggars cant be chooses i thought , and anyway i fancied a breath of fresh air so i jotted the details down , woke james im sure he could sleep on a clothes line , took the key to store c from the keyboard by the rear door , and we made our way outside into the snow .
store room c was stencilled above the door of the smaller of the rooms , and as i unlocked the door and swung it open i was hit by a waft of hot air , apparently the stores were temperature controlled as well .
the store looked large from the outside , but inside it was cavernous , and james quickly found the switch , the lights flickered on and hundreds of boxes stared back at me .
we made our way to bay 3 , which was clearly stencilled on the floor , and i placed the message pad down on a handy crate , and then we waded through the boxes that were stacked behind the crate , but no luck , no matching part number could we find , not even something close , so we decided that herr hubby had been fallible after all and had misplaced it .
never mind , perhaps we would find it one day after all i still had a fabulous collection of goodies to scour through , and james had almost been totally underwhelmed by the whole experience .
as we turned to leave i lifted the message pad off the crate and there it was p n h 6537684 , the number that had so recently become etched in my brain , it wasnt a box , it was a bloody great crate .
out came my phone , 5 , and teddy , both of you get your backsides out here , now , and closed the connection .
seconds later they careered into the store , expecting to find carnage , or at least mayhem , but all they found was me open mouthed .
i pointed to the number on the message pad , and then at the part number on the crate , and topsy kissed it , then went in search of a crow bar .
inside it were hundreds of boxes of individual set of pads , and all of them were perfectly preserved .
obviously this had been one of the last stores requisitions that the air force had made before the decision had been taken to replace their fleet of hunters .
they must have been running low , so had ordered what must been at least five years worth of replacement pads for them , lucky old me .
as the afternoon progressed things got quite busy for us , and my minders were more than happy to let us get on with it , apparently their firms mobile site office had arrived so they were snug as bugs in a rug outside .
when inma returned laden down with shopping she placed the receipt and my card on the desk and whispered to me that whilst chatting to frau englbund , she had mentioned to her on several occasions that she was not very happy about spending the remainder of her time on this planet living in a mausoleum , in this god forsaken backwater , she much preferred people watching from under the arcades around berne .
she didnt know if this bit of information was of any use , but hoped that it might be .
it was brilliant news , topsy and i had been trying to work out how to get the hunter out .
he had done a stint on martsu at hms daedalus , lee on the solent , in hampshire and in the not so distant past it had been the royal navys specialist mobile aircraft repair , transport and salvage unit .
half the unit had been tiffies spit that would go off and carry out complicated repairs to an aircraft for a squadron , and the other half worked for a living .
they specialised in the transportation of aircraft of all three services by road lorry , sea in a freighters hold or air inside a cargo plane or under a helicopter .
it didnt matter if they were in one piece or had arrived on terra firma in several bits crashed , they prided themselves in delivering them to wherever they had to go , in the same condition as they were in when they arrived on site to pick them up .
it could be in the middle of a field , a nice warm hangar , or fort william car park , it didnt matter , have lorry and cranes , and motorbikes for escorts will travel .
there was no way that we and again i use that term very loosely could safely dismantle the building and take the aircraft out the front way , anyway new buildings and roundabouts had been built in the ensuing years and topsy doubted that a queen mary specialist aircraft transportation trailer could make it safely up here , but out back was a totally different kettle of fish .
with some judicious prodding and poking we deducted that the part of the rear wall just behind the hunter may have been designed to be removed , allowing the hunter to be pushed outside , and also that the sheds had been positioned wide enough apart to allow her to squeeze between them .
topsy reckoned that it would then take him about 10 minutes to ease the rear fence out of the way , using a chain saw , and then it was out into a meadow that was straight out of the sound of music , then perhaps we could airlift it out he suggested .
it sounded like a good idea to me , although i must admit that i was starting to get just a tad bit worried when topsy informed me , as we were heavy into discussed the intricacies of the operation that one of his favourite sayings was if it wont go , dont force it hit it with a bigger hammer , the other one apparently was if all else fails read the instructions .
it became obvious to me that a lot of people were beavering away in the background supporting my merry little band when a couple of solicitors suddenly arrived out of nowhere .
i grabbed the friendliest looking one and went to find heidi .
she agreed that she didnt much care for her home hangar , she was really a city bird at heart , so she readily agreed in principle and in writing that i could not only have the aircraft and all the spares , but that i could purchase her home s as well .
that way it didnt really matter if topsy had to adjust part of it while easing the aircraft out , either with his chain saw or a sledgehammer .
i gave a written undertaking to have everything independently verified and valued , but teddy had given me a very off the cuff figure of what the aircraft and the bits and pieces that he had seen so far were roughly worth , so when i told her that the final total would be at least x francs with a lot of zeros and most likely a lot more , she slid gracefully under the table in a dead faint .
we revived her and then i mercilessly continued , and that does not include top dollar for your home .
this time she didnt faint , she grabbed the phone and postponed indefinitely her flight to america , after all she was only going over there to see her children , grandchildren and great grandchild there was serious house hunting to do over here .
and no she did not want to go and live in america , the kids might want her to babysit , she was definitely way too old for that sort of nonsense .
the property agents were most likely all shut by now , she moaned but she couldnt wait until they opened up on monday .
shall i see if my staff at el campo can speed things up ?
i asked .
speed things up , she was off viewing six furnished apartments at two oclock the next morning .
all was going spectacularly well we opened up the other store rooms and found enough drop tanks to equip all my aircraft and a huge amount of special tools , ground equipment and specialist slings .
the first thing that topsy insisted on was that all the aircraft slings were to be sent off for testing , and so as the sun started to set over a nearby mountain a helicopter whisked them all off to the hastily re opened testing house .
hopefully they would be back , complete with their certificates by tuesday , but it was nearly a moot point , herr bloken ... .. , herr blicken ... ... , herr bloodngutts arrived .
he was from customs with a capital c , and didnt we just know it .
it was his saturday off , he had been dragged off piste and so his new purpose in life was to make my life a misery .
there was absolutely no way on gods little green or white in winter earth that i was going to get even a box of hair grips out of switzerland if he had anything to do with it , so he made himself comfortable in front of the antiquated computer and exclaimed oh good , i have one just like this in the office .
why did i not doubt him in the slightest ?
and as we all sat around watching him , first he sorted all the items on the computer out chronologically , then alphabetically , then numerically and finally by date of invoice , he liked that i think it must have looked prettier .
then he sorted out the invoices fortunately he settled for date order as well , that saved us at least an hour .
item one on the computer hawker hunter f58 complete reference number hulk 112 room 1 .
where is room one ?
he demanded .
you are sat in it i snapped , just controlling myself enough to refrain from grabbing him by the scruff of his neck , dragging him out of his seat and ramming his nose into the side of the aircraft that was parked right in front of him , i might have dented it , and so he slowly got up and walked around it twice , noting all the planes serial numbers in his note book , then eased himself back down and laboriously wrote about half a page in another note book , and then placed the invoice to one side with a sneering the reference numbers dont tally .
it was going to be a long night .
as he slowly continued his ministrations inma and heidi tried to ease the situation by bringing in a pile of bacon butties .
none for me thank you he muttered , head down in a pile of invoices , i have brought my own sandwiches with his winning personality he most likely automatically assumed that they were seasoned with strychnine .
good job i thought , i wasnt going to offer you one anyway .
halfway through my second butty , this one with brown sauce on it , i made up my mind to return to el campo , but before i could put thoughts into words the front door burst open and my local minders poured in , formed up on either side of the entrance and then stood rigidly to attention .
the leader of the crew was physically shaking , and a suit walked smartly in .
you can tell a lot from a mans suit , and this one told me that this one was only his owners work a day suit , but it was still twice as good as my sunday best .
the owner of the suit walked up to me , shook my hand and politely informed me that the president of the federation had asked him personally to officially welcome me to switzerland on his behalf , and then strolled over to herr bloodngutts and reamed him another rectal orifice , topsys words not mine .
as neither one of us could understand a word that was being said in the very one sided conversation i let the tone generate a mental picture and topsys description seemed pretty accurate to me .
on completion the suit then came and bade me farewell , safe journey home did he know something about that postage stamp airfield ?
and hoped to have the pleasure of meeting me again soon , but perhaps in grander surroundings , and then , as we shook hands prior to his departure , his chauffer darted in and took a photograph , obviously the suit had a vacant space on his mantelpiece .
the whole episode had taken less than ten minutes .
as i watched the back of the suit stride out of the door , i casually turned to teddy and whispered the money must have arrived then .
it is surprising what reaction you get when you deposit a couple of billion euros in the right bank , especially when there is a post it note stuck on top of them saying these will stay here for at least five years if me and my new personal aeroplane , and all the bits and bobs that go with it are out of your country within a week .
it took us five days .
herr bloodngutts collected up all the invoices , removed a seal from his briefcase and started stamping and signing away as though his life depended upon it , and from the tone of the conversation that i had just witnessed i wouldnt have been surprised if it , or at the very least , his career had .
half an hour later he was finished and he , his untouched sandwiches , and briefcase scurried out of the door , to the accompaniment of profuse apologies about the terrible misunderstanding , and teddy walked over to the desk and picked up the last receipt to be stamped , signed and cleared for export , and showed it to me , it was inmas supermarket receipt .
i could now legally export my bacon butty too late it was stowing away in my stomach .
that would definitely be framed and end up on my mantelpiece .
later that evening i sat in the cockpit of my new best friend and had a long chat with her .
we agreed that her little mishaps had been preordained destiny , designed in the greater scheme of things to bring us together , so we conveniently put them to one side .
she then promised to look after me , if i looked after her , and a deal was struck , and i then thought that that was enough of the bacardi and full fat cokes sod the calories .
what was the reason for my stiff b cs , there was absolutely no way that i was going to fly the g450 off that postage stamp that the swiss called an airfield .
the landing had been bad enough , so i was determined to make sure this evening that there was not going to be enough blood left in my alcohol system to permit me to take the controls the following day ... ... so the next morning i left topsy and a growing number of helpers early , i nearly said bright and early but that would have been a downright lie , but promised to be back when my aircraft was ready to move out into the wild blue yonder .
early wednesday morning a large helicopter wheezed its way up the mountain and deposited james , teddy and i ignominiously in the meadow , it was at the limit of its performance so how on earth was the lift ever going to take place later on ?
everything had been removed from the stores and hangar and transported to the airport for onward shipment , trouble free of course , and heidi had spent her first night in her new penthouse apartment that overlooked her favourite arcade .
its surprising how quick property vendors can move when the hint of a suit is standing over them , and the end wall had been slid aside on its concealed runners to enable my aircraft to be pushed outside .
topsy had even had his wish and removed the fence his way .
the previous day topsy had gone out scrounging and found a supplier of steel i beams which when lain on their sides in front of each wheel made a perfect track to stop the wheels from sinking into the soft snow .
he even designed fishplates which easily fitted over the ends of the beams to interlock them , stopping one end of a beam flying up in the air when a wheel reached the other end , very lateral thinking im sure , but i bet it was a tiff spit that manufactured them , but finally everything was ready .
first my cab was spun round , and then she was pushed carefully out of her home , she was not going to enter the world rse first topsy declared .
a sno cat then towed her along the tracking and an hour ahead of schedule my beautiful new toy sat quietly in the middle of the meadow awaiting julie andrews sorry i just couldnt resist that her ride out of there .
half an hour later what sounded like a cement mixer full of scrap iron being dragged sideways over cobble stones quickly came into view .
i was wrong , it was a machine created in a scrap yard by an eccentric engineer , and made to look like an upside down four poster bed .
as it came closer i realised that it was in fact one of russias world beating sky cranes , topsy had picked up the telephone on saturday evening , dialled yellow pages and asked for russian sky canes please .
after a quick chat with the pilot english is the language of the skies it was decided that he would prepare the hunter for its short flight to my little swiss airfield , but no he didnt need to take the wings off , weight would not be a problem , even at this altitude , and it was agreed that the helicopter would arrive at eleven oclock , the pilot would then assess the situation , under sling the load my baby was now being called a load , humf and then there would be test flights to check the aerodynamic stability of the said load , and only when the pilot was absolutely satisfied then it would then be flown to the requisite airfield .
she should be on her way by three oclock topsy confidently stated with his fingers crossed behind his back .
the helicopter , and i use that word very loosely , circled once that was the assessing part out of the way came to the hover above my baby , and totally ignoring all topsys marshalling signals lowered itself around her .
as my beloved sat there , her nose sticking forlornly out from between this praying mantiss front legs , her wings poking out at the sides , and her tail disappearing into the shadow cast by this monster it looked as if i would never see my beauty again , and then a hook slowly descended to just above the recently certified sling .
topsy was given a leg up and quickly slipped the slings shackle onto the hook and then vacated the vicinity .
as we all stood and watched in awe the hunter was plucked smoothly off the ground , but the helicopter never moved .
steadying lines were quickly attached to her by a crewman and then finally the monster rose effortlessly into the air i doubted if it even noticed my new beloved underneath it .
that was the slinging part of the exercise over with .
the sky crane flew off for a few hundred meters , circled once , did a figure of eight and then came back and gently touched down , and my hunter was lowered to within a foot of the ground , it wasnt looking good .
topsy strolled over , he would normally have ducked and darted in but it was really a waste of energy what with the thrashing blades so high above him , and plugged his electric hat into a convenient inter com jack on one of the trellis work legs .
a minute later he was back , the pilot would like the undercarriage retracted , the nose cover removed and twenty five kilos placed in the jet pipe .
james was sent off to find a suitable twenty five kilos , the cockpit cover was slid off , and a ladder was clipped onto the side of the fuselage .
topsy connected the battery , the hood was slid back and i gingerly climbed up the ladder as my only true love swayed gently in the breeze of the down wash .
i reached in , switched on the battery master switch , and selected up undercarriage .
absolutely nothing happened until topsy started wa pumping away on the hydraulic systems hand pump .
first the three green lights turned red under carriage unlocked and unsafe , and then after three clunks the lights , one at a time , went out , the undercarriage and associated doors were now up and locked .
i quickly fell off the ladder my hearts desire was of course suspended in mid air , and the length of my legs had not been adjusted accordingly and it was removed , the hood was closed , the battery disconnected , and a sack of potatoes was wrapped in the cockpit cover and stuffed unceremoniously into the jet pipe .
how heavy is twenty five kilos ?
james asked topsy as he handed him the bag of tatties .
dont know , never did the metrification course , but this looks about right .
again we all stood back , and after the love of my life was again raised up , and the steadying ropes tightened , the helicopter yet again took to the air , but after one quick circuit it was back on the ground .
problems , problems , problems , topsy muttered as he wandered back up to his favourite undercarriage leg .
he had a few more words with the pilot and was out again , with a look of absolute amazement on his face .
the pilot says the load is ok now , and it seems such a pity to go so few kilometres after so much trouble ?
, would i like them to take her straight to england .
hhr were already collecting another aircraft for me , so they wouldnt be arriving at my tiny airfield for at least four days , then the wings would have to come off and the whole lot transported by road and ferry , so yes please i said , and with a quick nod from topsy the monstrosity , with my precious under it , lifted off and headed down the mountain ten minutes before it was due to arrive .
do they know the delivery address i asked topsy .
dont know , he absentmindedly muttered but i suspect it it will get there safe and sound .
as we walked back towards the empty house topsy asked me what i would be doing with it .
i dont know , but now that you have decimated the fence i suppose i will have to have the rest of it knocked down as well .
at that teddy chipped in it would be a nice place to have a ski lodge .
whilst you are in my employ my boy you wont have time for that sort of nonsense , i still hadnt fully forgiven him , and as we continued on towards it , i thought of my beautiful little butterfly battling gallantly onward under that nasty machine , without a driver and open to the elements , given half a chance i would have stowed away on board my , my , arent we getting all nautical just to keep her company as topsy daydreamed about brake pads , and teddy mentally designed his perfect lodge .
three days later i stood on a wet and windy hard standing in dorset , watching the clackety clacker machine appear out of the mist .
it had had to go the pretty way to england you are not flying that thing over my city etc , plus they had to stop at every service area to top up , and for the occasional drop of shut eye .
after lowering her beautifully sculptured undercarriage legs , it lowered my soot covered light of my life gently to the ground , and as the hook was swiftly disconnected , the airport manager , who was standing soaked to the skin beside me never blindly believe the weather forecast , just look out of the window started to speculate on how many world records must have been shattered this trip , especially as the last part of it had been carried out solo .
apparently at the first pit stop this side of the english channel the co pilot and crewmen had all grabbed their bags and disappeared , shouting asylum , council house , leather jacket and taxi please .
i was amazed , one man controlling this leviathan he must be superhuman .
as the monster gently lifted off from around my baby she looked awfully small and dejected after her terrible ordeal with that nasty machine it slid smoothly sideways and settled back down and started to shut down .
i just had to wait and shake hands with this giant among men , and after the machine had finally entered the state of utter silence , and i could start to think clearly again , my first thought was the airport manager lied to me , he wasnt alone , the pilot had had his young daughter along for the ride .
she clambered nimbly down the spiders legs , as only a fit young teenager can do , ran spritely across to me and shook my hand ? ? ? .
mr michaels , how nice to meet you a week early .
a week early ?
i asked .
the only thing that i had on next week was the start of the team leader and flight commanders interviews , and then it dawned on me natasha shladakoff ?
she smiled , touched the tip of her chin with an index finger and gave a cute curtsy .
the one and only she replied .
i had asked teddy to explain why he had placed this young woman she was in fact twenty nine years old , on the pile .
his only comment was after she gave a solo display in a mig 29 at farnborough three years ago they considered rewriting the books on the theory of flight , that was good enough for me .
will you be waiting for a replacement crew to arrive before you leave , or take a british one with you i asked .
neither she replied , a new russian crew would only claim asylum when they arrived in england , and a british crew would most likely be shot as spies when we arrived in russia , i will fly it back myself after all i have my automatic pilot , and reaching down into a bulging pocket of her flight suit she pulled out a bunch of bungee rubbers , the type that hold suitcases down on a car roof rack .
the red and green ones are for the cyclic stick , the blue one is for the collective stick and the green one is for the rudder pedals .
oh yes i said , feigning shock , and whats the purple one for ?
for when i go to the toilet , the door lock is broken .
i had certainly met my match in the humour stakes i thought , and as she went off to supervise the re fuelling i turned to teddy , i wonder what those bungees are really for ?
most likely her auto pilot he said with a straight face youve never flown a russian aircraft have you .
chapter 3 the next day , on my list of things to do was air engineer officer , i needed one to set up and run the maintenance side of things , and we had quickly whittled the fairly short list of three , down to a short list of three .
in the preamble that maria had sent out it was explained that they would be doing most of the talking at the interview .
they would have one hour , maximum , to explain what other specialist officers they would need , how many supervisors and of what trades , and how many maintainers they required .
then they had to lay out a maintenance plan for keeping sixteen , sorry seventeen hunters serviceable and available for at least eight air shows in the first season , and most likely considerably more thereafter , and finally what background support did they envisage that they would need .
the first one in was swiss , ex swiss air force .
he had a hooked nose , beady eyes and looked at me as though he had just found me on the bottom of his shoe it was nothing personal , i think he looked at everybody like that .
then the interview started to go downhill .
first he opened his mouth , big mistake , and then he started speaking .
he had never worked on hunters before , but he told us that a good officer didnt need to know anything about the pieces of machinery under his control , that is what he had his under officers for .
then why do we need you , you dillywhat !
and please dont call my aircraft machinery , they are very sensitive .he would need at least five additional officers , an airframes specialist german , they were the best , an engine specialist american , they were the best , an electrical specialist either dutch or norwegian , there was not much to choose between them , and an instruments specialist of course he had to be swiss , he ?
supervisors would of course be supervised closely by the officers , and the mechanics would call all officers and supervisors sir .
im sure that was really important i think not .
then he laid out his master plan for the servicing , eisenhowers plan for the d day landings had to have been simpler , and finally he needed a fully trained workshop staff to maintain all the equipment , but i wouldnt need to get a crash tender , with him in charge of servicing no aircraft would dare to crash .
the second one must have been a distant relative of the first one i really do pick them ! ! ! .
she had never actually worked on hunters , but she imagined they would be quite simple , mechanics wise , after the raf galaxys and tri stars that she had in her repertoire .
the officers that she would require were 1 airframe 2 propulsion 3 hydraulics 4 pneumatics 5 radar ?
6 radio 7 electrical 8 ordnance 9 ground equipment ok we get the idea , i didnt realise that i had to purchase a 747 just to transport the maintenance officers around in .
supervisors , of course the same as the officers , plus high and low pressure fuel system specialists , engine strip down specialists , testing specialists and specialist specialists to supervise all work carried out on the flying controls by specialist mechanics .
then she got onto her requirement for mechanics , i would soon need more 747s than hunters .
her servicing schedule if anything was more complicated than the first one .
but please be assured that no one will be allowed to even touch an aircraft that doesnt have the highest civilian and military qualifications .
davids tiffy spit saying leapt to my mind they may be able to tell you the square root of a jar of pickles , but they cant actually open one .
under her guidelines topsy wouldnt even be allowed to sweep the hangar deck .
she would of course expect full behind the scenes support , along with at least three man fire tenders with around the clock crews aerobatics in the pitch dark must be a spectacular sight never to be seen , and of course safety nets at the ends of each and every runway .
with the amount of brake pads that we had just come across i doubted if we would ever have a brake failure , and even if we did , the runways were so long at el campo that the aircraft would just trundle to a stop long before they reached the end of them .
our third candidate was a rolly polly of a man with a ruddy complexion and a ready smile .
he didnt want a mass of technical officers just one deputy .
all he wanted were a few supervisors and an abundant supply of mechanics , and he didnt have a clue about fire engines , good start john .
lieutenant commander john dumphy royal navy retired rolled into the interview room , confidently shook our hands and asked us two things , 1 .
can i take my jacket off , its sweltering in here and 2 .
please call me john .
john dumphy started his naval career as a common or garden baby sailor , and after completing his initial training at arbroath in scotland he was drafted even higher up the map , to lossiemouth , in those days it was hms fulmar , a royal naval air station and on paper the second busiest airfield in the uk , and his first squadron was 764 naval air squadron which operated hawker hunter ga11s and t8s .
junior naval air mechanic 2nd class airframes and engines dumphy jp progressed happily along his chosen path and went on to work on buccaneers , both on shore and on board a real aircraft carrier it had steam catapults .
when he returned to hms condor arbroath for his leading air mechanic a es course the powers that be spotted a rising star , and gave him the opportunity of going on the next four year mechs course .
mechanicians mechs when fully trained were basically tiffys spit , but with dirty hands .
as they had once upon a time been real mechanics they were exempted from the spitting .
when he had completed his classroom and workshop training it was back up to lossiemouth again , but this time it was to 738 nas which also operated hunters , to round off his training , but now as an air mec 2nd class , equivalent to a petty officer , a senior rate supervisor .
when he had done some more sea time , this time with wessex helicopters he went in front of the promotion board to be promoted to am1 air mechanician 1st class , equivalent to a chief petty officer but the powers that be yet again spotted something , and in short shrift he was heading south to become an air engineering officer , starting as a lowly sub lieutenant on a helicopter trials squadron .
topsy , when asked why didnt you go through for officer ?
would reply i would rather be king of the crap , than crap of the kings i think that there is logic in there somewhere .
as john had come from the lower deck it wasnt likely that he would be allowed to take the air engineering world by storm , but he did progress surprisingly well .
he had the natural talent of being liked and respected by both his peers and subordinates alike , and so he finally ended his naval career as the senior air engineering officer of the small ships flights parent squadron at portland .
on leaving the navy he exchanged his blue suite for another blue one , but this one had pin stripes in it , and went to work for airworks at one time being topsys boss , being responsible for the maintenance of among other types of aircraft , their hunters .
was he so arrogant as to believe that only he and his deputy could manage the maintainers , nope , apparently i was going to have at least sixteen very clever pilots sat around most of the working day playing cards , and among them would be phds and diplomas in abundance .
as it was going to be their backsides that were going to be sitting in those aircraft , wasnt it obvious that they would have a vested interest in making sure that they were airworthy ?
good point john .
next mechanics , apart from a few electricians , radio mechanics and bomb heads wait i know the answer to that one , armourers he would require an ample supply of airframe engine mechanics .
he would of course require supervisors of each trade , plus some mechs what about a spit or two , i asked in the background , but what he really needed was the ample supply of air mechanics .
not only one for each aircraft as plane captains so called , to instil a sense of pride ownership in them , but others servicing the ground equipment , manning the stores tool control cage and looking after the oils and fuel bowsers oops , i had forgot about them , but he didnt want them scrubbing and cleaning , except of course the aircraft .
they would be his back up support team to cover sicknesses and other emergencies .
what about all the other jobs related to operating the aircraft i asked , the safety equipment , photography , paint spraying , anti corrosion etc ?
multi tasking he said , for example having two armourer supervisors and two armourers sat around all day on the off chance that an ejection seat might need to be removed was a bit of a waste of time and money , let them be sub trained into looking after the safety equipment and flying clothing .
isnt that a specialist trade in itself ?
i asked .
yes he agreed but only if we are going to pack our own parachutes .
what he wanted was a small mobile force that could , with the correct training , carry out the first line up front jobs of other trades .
a pre packed parachute could be removed from the ejection seat by a cross trained armourer , who would then do the periodic routine visual inspections on it .
if he found a problem then it would be sent off to the manufacturers for sorting , and a replacement one quickly drawn from the stores and fitted in its place .
simple , and no time lost .
he wanted the same thing with the plane captains .
if an aircraft landed with a problem with its engine he did not want a queue of specialists trying to fix it for the next week and a half , he wanted the plane captain , and a couple of the other captains whose aircraft were serviceable and tucked away in the shed , along with an electrician , a grubber airframes engine and greenie electrical supervisor ready and waiting .
they would quickly whip the tail assembly off , remove the engine which would be sent back to rolls royce , or whoever got the contract for servicing them and replace it with one that had been quietly sitting in the corner of the hangar .
they would then slide the tail assembly back on , and after a second independent grubber had double checked the engine and flying control connections , a cross trained mechanic tractor driver would tow it outside , under the supervision of any supervisor not just a specialist aircraft handler that had been sitting around waiting and the grubber supervisor or even the plane captain if hed had the extra training would then ground run the new engine to check it out but not when i am asleep thank you very much .
after the paperwork had been completed it would be the first aircraft towed onto the line the following morning so that its regular pilot could quickly take it up for a check test flight , and all things being equal it would be ready for normal operations along with the rest of the teams aircraft , no training or display programmes would be interrupted , and no he didnt know how many fire engines i would need , but he knew a man that did chalky white .
he had met up with him at lunch time , that man had more professional expertise in relation to fire engines and salvage trucks in his little finger , than any engineer has in his or her whole body .
i had seen how an independent rather large small ships flight had efficiently operated when id had 411 412 embarked on the lady s for the rescue , so as i sat there i didnt know what teddy was thinking , but for me , john had just blown the competition clean out of the water , welcome on board mr chief air engineer .
chapter 4 the following week it was time for the prospective team leader flight commanders to strut their stuff , and they would all be arriving by vicarious means pm sunday , for an early start monday .
various single and multi engined aircraft started to arrive from mid morning onwards , depositing their owners and or passengers outside mi casa , then suddenly i had a frantic call from chalky in the tower .
i raced outside just in time to see a small russian su 26 single seat aerobatic aircraft complete with state markings seemingly hover into view , its rudder only inches from the ground .
i was almost certain that i knew the difference between a helicopter and a conventional fixed wing aircraft , and then i thought about teddys comment about re writing the theory of flight hand book , natasha had arrived .
i watched her give a phenomenal display , and then plop down on the taxi track just in front of a hangar .
i mentally ticked the box give a solo aerobatic display .
she shut down the tiny aircraft and trotted over to me .
dont tell me , you stole the sukhoi and have come here to claim asylum ?
i asked her .
oh no she said , when i told them that i was going to be leader of the best aerobatic team in the world they lent it to me , no problem , but i had to promise to return it with a full tank of petrol .
cocky little madam i thought , then i realised that the criteria for team leader was for the best person to get the job , without fear , favour or sexual discrimination and she was simply stating the obvious .
how did you do the hovering thing ?
i asked .
simple she replied the su 26 has more power than weight , so easy peesy .
that display earned her a conducted tour of el campo by yours truly , and then early the next morning i had another frantic phone call , this time from topsy .
a lunatic little girl wanted to steal a single seat hunter , but first she had asked him please , where is the starter button ?
natasha was obviously up and about .
i laughed and told him to let her have it , we had plenty more on the way , and then walked outside onto the balcony and watched her as she walked once around the aircraft , climbed into it , lit the fire and taxied to the end of the runway .
fifteen minutes later i had mentally added in a hunter to the aerobatic box , it was an awe inspiring display of man , sorry woman , melding with machine i would hate to have been one of the other applicants that were watching , after that performance .
on executing a perfect landing she taxied back in , clambered out and went up to an open mouthed topsy .
she reached up , closed his mouth with a finger , kissed him on the cheek and told him that zaz iz a buttiful little airplane , zank you , then trotted off .
by tuesday afternoon teddy and i were redundant we had got fed up with her suggesting something , and then us passing on the good idea , so we cut out the middle men and let her get on with it and went for a cuppa .
natasha had arrived with two or three ideas about aerobatic routines in her carrier bag , but after her first flight in the serene hunter she tore them up , and on the first thursday of the two week evaluation she came to us with her new routine , especially composed for the hawker hunter , and as she pirouetted and swooped gracefully in front of us in teddys office we both instantaneously knew that we were watching the birth of the teams opening public display next season .
the f16s and 18s had the raw power , the continentals had their nimble dexterity with their sukhois and pitts but we would have the grace and serenity of the worlds most beautiful jet .
i was almost reduced to tears , and it had yet to be performed by an aircraft .
the next day , as i sat quietly munching my chip butty in the greenhouse that had been hand created for me by the finest chef this side of the black stump bob edwards , the late owner of topsys aircraft , parked his rear at my table .
until natasha had arrived he had been the unofficial front runner for the team leaders crown , as he had led the red arrows countless times , but after the obligatory small talk he said in desperation when you make her leader please tell her to slow down a bit , we are all knackered just trying to keep up with her .
that afternoon teddy and i had a chat , and the following morning we called her into my office and offered her the job , then i gathered the rest of the candidates together and broke the sad news to them .
i just knew that they would all be devastated that they wouldnt be getting the position .
they cheered .
by the beginning of week two , out of the twenty six starters , four of them had failed the medical , and another four lacked the intestinal fortitude guts to fly as close to another aeroplane as natasha demanded , teddy regularly commented that another coat of paint and they would be touching each other , but we knew that the surviving pilots were shaping up to become the best of the best , and herein lay our problem , we had eighteen wannabee flight commanders for just four positions , but we were saved from making that decision by natasha , as on wednesday afternoon she came to see teddy and i .
could we please have a little chat ?
she could switch the russian accent on and off at will .
she had gotten to know the other pilots very well over the past ten days , getting to know all their many strengths and few weaknesses , and if it was up to her it was , but i wasnt going to let her know that just yet , she would have thingamabob , whatshisname , hoojamaflip , and the stumpy little one as flight commanders its a pity that she wasnt as good with names as she was with strengths and weaknesses , with the rest as the remainder of the team , but she would have two pilots to many .
i then let her into my little secret .
as we had been sat idly by , watching , we had realised that we would require a support aircraft , and i had been looking around for a late series bae 146 avro rj four engined whisper jet .
as four engined aircraft went it was quite titchy , but it could operate from smallish airfields without creating too much noise .
have any of the team got four engined aircraft rating ?
i asked teddy .
apparently two had , sally peters and peter frost .
both were single parents , both were going to give up flying and get a proper job if they didnt get into the team , and both fancied the pants off each other although neither of them realised that their feelings were reciprocated , and then i had another one of my brilliant revelations , how about if we not only offered them the job of flying the 146 around , but also made them our spare pilots as well .
natasha thought that the stigma of only being spares might be too much , but i went on , the engineers are going to be on the books permanent staff but the pilots will only have two year contracts , renewable by mutual agreement at the end of the display seasons .
in years to come i could manage with a sixty four year old mechanic , but i could just imagine a group of sixty four year old pilots being wheeled out in their bath chairs , the first one that remembered how to start an aircraft can try and have a go at flying it .
a slight exaggeration , but they got the point .
as the 146s drivers they would be on the books , in reality it would mean that they would be paid slightly less than the rest , but once they gave up aerobaticing they would end their time as my corporate jet pilots .
teddy also pointed out that all pilots in the team would have to be able to cover another team members position if unforeseen situations arose , but the spares could cover two , or even three , so they should get more than enough stick and display time , as a common or garden head cold would temporarily ground a pilot , and not only would they both qualify for permanent housing , i butted in , but their offspring would automatically receive one of my scholarships .
maria joined us only fair as she would be sorting out the paperwork and after discussing the finer intricacies for a few more minutes i summonsed them both into the office , and that could have been a big mistake , but i felt lucky .
as they came in i could tell that they had done their maths , sixteen aircraft , eighteen pilots , single parents and about to give up on flying , wrong , would you like to be my spare pilots i started off , and as i worked my way through what their responsibilities would be we had the full range of emotions displayed in front of us .
they went into marias empty office to talk it over , and were back in ten minutes , full of the joys of spring .
they had actually agreed in about ten seconds flat but then they had a celebratory kiss purely professional of course they hoped that maria wouldnt notice her re arranged desk .
the rest of the team were pulled in one at a time , first the four flight leaders , and then the remainder .
all had come to el campo hoping for a senior position , but when we had finished with them i had my aerobatic display team , ye ha .
it was great having an aerobatic display team but i had one small problem , i had no finished aircraft , and i wouldnt have any until the end of the summer , so all the pilots , with the exception of natasha , went off to hand in their notices , have a bit of family time , and complete the relevant short courses of the ancillary tasks that each would be required to take on , and after sending a box of unmarked us dollars to the relevant authority , russia even let me keep the su 26 , bit to lively for me but a great training aid for the team .
there was of course no chance of any displays this summer but the timing was actually perfect , the pilots and aircraft would arrive at the end of this summers display season , although the maintainers would be up and running way before then .
teddy and natasha would then start to knock the new team into shape in the autumn , they would then all have a three week break for christmas , and then it would be down to the serious stuff , and hopefully after a fairly successful display season the pilots would then be off for another well earned break airline tickets by kind courtesy of yours truly .
the maintainers would also have their fair share of leave , but it would be spread out over the training season , and as most of them would be living local , only those that were commuting would get the air tickets , it would give john another thing to sort out when he wasnt juggling nineteen hunters .
i say nineteen hunters , that was because i now had sixteen display aircraft plus the two spares , and now my very own one , but unfortunately for him it didnt stop there , he would also now be responsible for the maintenance of a bae 146 and all the other aircraft that i was collecting along the way as the saying goes whats the point of keeping a dog and barking yourself .
rover , sorry john , seemed quite an adaptable kind of person so i let him get on with it , but although he had the responsibility for servicing my personal aircraft i had no intention of letting anyone else fly it .
it would still have a glass cockpit like all the others , but it would also have a few extra refinements , including a more sophisticated navigation system , so that i wouldnt get lost when i was off on one of my jaunts which would be most of the time , an interface that would allow my pc on screen if i got bored i could play solitaire , and a satellite phone so that i could still chat to all and sundry , even when i wasnt on terra firma .
one of the first things that natasha and john ganged up on me about was the identities of the aircraft .
what was the point i said , they will all have their individual aircraft identification letters , but apparently it was ok to tell a mechanic to go and check the floggle toggle valve on the g450 or harvard , but it was a whole different kettle of fish when he was faced with a hangar full of identical aircraft , that had a multitude of identification letters on their sides .
the poor mechanic would be wandering around half the night just trying to find the right aircraft .
point taken i said .
do you want numbers or letters asked john .
i wasnt going to let them get away with ganging up on me that easy , neither i said , i want names .
they went a funny colour .
the idea that had been floating around in the back of my mind , was to use the alphabet , but with a difference , i was determined to have another lady s. the first aircraft in line would have a name starting with the letter a , ie angela .
it would have a large fancy a on either side of its fin , and a large a with small ngela on either side of its nose .
the pilots name would be written , not printed , on the side of the aircraft below the cockpit on the port side getting very nautical , and the plane captains name would go on the starboard side , oh !
and of course they will all be in gold i added .
it will all look very nice against the british racing green i thought , but i had a problem , i wanted lady s , but was i to have large l small ady s , or small lady large s ?
decisions , decisions .
the latter would be more practical said sensible john , you can then have a large s on either side of the fin , and lady s on either side of the nose .
great idea , i like it .
ok he said , i will tell hhr to get the gold paint out then .
john , oh john , oh john i said , you really have got a lot to learn about working for me ! ! ! ! ! !
natasha matched each pilot up with an aircraft and a letter of the alphabet , and then contacted them they had one week to come up with three names for me to choose from .
i was flexible , thats why i ended up with arabella , blodwyn , cuddles , dingbat , ethelred , floozy , glencora , helga , ingrid , juliette , king kong , lewellyn , melva , nutcracker , ophelia , and pumpkin .
unfortunately i had to reluctantly veto my personal favourite though , john estimated that the aircraft would have to have be extended six feet to fit llanfair pwllgwyngyll gogerychwyrndrobw llllantysiliogogogoch , all in , although im still glad that im not going to be the sign writer .
can i have the standard aircraft markings in bottle green i asked , they would look much prettier than black or white .
i think its illegal john said , but whos going to have the sphericals to tell you .
good lad , he was starting to get the hang of it at last .
the only other urgentish problem that i had before i took myself of for some serious bronzy bronzying was what on earth was the collective noun for a gaggle of hunters ?
hunties , the huntsmen i liked that one but i doubted if my four female pilots would , then i went onto a play on the word green .
the green angels , to close to the blue angels , the green arrows , same again only different , the green goddesses , nope they were fire engines , then i thought the lean green aerobaticing machines or the green machines for short .
thatll do , problem sorted .
chapter 5 where does the man who can go almost anywhere on the planet go for his hols , island hopping of course .
not your deserted kind , the ones that have one or two people living on them , or possibly three .
i had a folder full of invitations from the rich and famous that had bought islands in the bahamas and the caribbean , from ones that could make it disappear , along with the statue of liberty , to someone that couldnt land his own jumbo jets on his , that was not very good planning now was it , perhaps he was a virgin when it came to buying up islands .
naturally i wouldnt have that problem i would just park the lady s the floating one at the bottom of their garden , so carol took the lady s over the pond , and parked her in the short stay boat park in florida where i joined them after a freebee trip on one of my host to bes jumbos , no he wasnt a circus owner he was the one like a virgin , wrong again it wasnt madonna shes next month .
first off it was a few days of heavy duty relaxation , and trying not to think of aircraft in any shape or form , it wasnt easy but by the fourth day i was starting to think nautical again , so after saying goodbye to some of my older new friends , and their clackety clacker machine disappeared off into the sunset , i looked at the flat calm sea , and the opportunity was just too good to miss , carol , full steam ahead , and the lady s was off like a whippet into the night .
after an hour of letting the lady s charge majestically through the inky black sea i suddenly realised that we might bump into something in the dark so i reluctantly told carol to reduce speed to sleeping speed , the lady s wasnt going to sleep , i was .
it was still a flat calm sea so i was going to take advantage of the fact , and use my large harbour suite at the stern of the ship , and i didnt want to be shaken out of bed every five minutes by the vibration , and so as the sea air and or bacardis started to get to me i bade all and sundry a fond nan night and it was off to beddy byes for me .
that was ok for about six hours , and then i got cramp in my leg .
by the time it had subsided i was wide awake so i limped up to the almost deserted bridge for a quick deco , quickly followed by carol , david and james , cant they trust me to be on my own for five minutes .
it was still pitch black and we were off some obscure part of the north american coast line when the second , or was it the third officer , who had his face glued to a radar screen commented that we were slowly overhauling what seemed to him to be a small coastal freighter , it was about eight cables in front of us .
i had left my nautical conversion chart in my cabin but i knew that there were ten cables in a nautical mile , which was in itself two thousand and twenty five yards long , which in plain english meant that it was starting to get close .
carol was just about to hang a right move slowly to starboard when he said oh ho .
i dont like oh hos , especially in the dark .
when they were fitting out the lady s for me in germany , of course i wanted the best of everything for her , so one of her radars , the close range one , had just come off of the secret list .
it apparently , according to the technician tweaking it , was a very close relative of the type something or other sonar , the one that could hear a shrimp break wind not a verbatim transcription at a thousand meters , so this radar had no trouble picking out the rubbish being thrown over the stern of the freighter , not a problem in itself , not even worthy of one oh .
the oh ho came when it was thrown over again , and again and again ... .
in fact it was thrown over ten times and floated at evenly spaced intervals , with electronic radar reflectors at either end .
the freighter obviously didnt have any radar closely related to mine as he didnt know that we were just behind him .
if he had he wouldnt have , according to carol , just dumped a huge quantity of drugs in front of us .
how do you know that ?
i asked .
guess work she said , but based on sound logic .
the freighter is running parallel to a desolate part of the coast , just outside territorial waters , with no running lights on , and the reflectors are of the type that ships , apart from those almost on top of them , wont pick up , but aircraft will , and it is almost dawn .
she would bet her pension who said she was going to get one ?
that the packages were drugs wrapped in floatation bags , and strung together with stout rope , waiting for a seaplane owned by a drug smuggler to come and collect them as soon as it was light enough to land .
david quickly disappeared off of the bridge , and carol darkened ship , not with a quick coat of quick drying paint , but by having all the navigation and external walkway lights switched off , along with our own electronic radar reflectors , and slowed to a crawl .
one of the things noted on the lady ss sea trials was that as she had originally been laid down as a stealthy ish warship her radar signature was very weak , so electronic boosters were fitted , so that passing liners and super tankers wouldnt run us down in the dark .
once the freighter was well clear carol inched the lady s up to the packages , and as i looked down at them i felt a presence .
glancing sideways i noticed that it was pierre , my sea going senior sergeant wearing the latest in nautical night time attire , a black jump suit , flak jacket , kevlar helmet and big boots , i hoped they wouldnt mark the deck .
he was also carrying the latest in seamens knives , made by bowie , and a steyr aug assault rifle , made by steyr .
david had obviously thrown a wobbly at the first mention of drug smugglers , and as soon as carols worst fears were proved right she was on the radio to the coastguards but ...
thank you for your call madam but all our sailors are busy on a wild goose chase at the other end of the world at the moment , will you please leave a message after the bell , and we might get back to you later .
eventually , when they and the dea drug enforcement administration realised that they had been slipped a crippler another one of topsys sayings and sent on a wild goose chase , they said they would dispatch a coastguard vessel post haste .
how long is post haste ?
carol asked .
about two hours they said , will you just keep the drugs in sight , but please dont attempt to retrieve them which of course would have been the sensible thing to do , apparently we might contaminate the evidence if the north atlantic ocean couldnt do it , what chance did we have ?
, so the lady s slowly started circling the drugs , and once the sun came up i found that going around in circles had its advantages , and one of them was that you could stand still and still get an all round tan .
just as i was about to ring topsy and tell him the good news about this new form of bronzying , another oh ho came from the bridge .
as we all looked at the blip that had appeared on my little radars big brother we could all tell that it was heading in our direction , and as we watched , the fairly big blip split into two , one medium sized blip and a small one , and as they came into view we thought oh they must be on their way to a war bird convention , but as there was nothing but africa behind us we then assumed that the drugs must be their intended destination .
the larger of the two was a pby 5a consolidated catalina i could tell it was a 5a because it had large wheels tucked into the sides of its fuselage .
it was a world war 2 era amphibian that could alight on either land or sea , and it looked as though it had just rolled off the production line .
the smaller aircraft was as equally immaculate , it was a supermarine spitfire , and as i was getting quite knowledgeable on these sorts of things i knew that it was one of the earlier marks as it had eight dummy .303 machine gun ports in its wings .
very realistic i thought .
as they circled the lady s , carol called them up on the vhf radio and asked them what their intentions were ?
they obviously werent very honourable as a torrent of foul language erupted out of the speaker above our heads .
i thought language timothy , ladies present , but i doubted that anyone up there was named timothy chuck or clint maybe , but definitely not timothy .
go forth and multiply the voices continued and leave the pretty little packages to us .
as you can image it was not a literal translation .
or what ?
carol asked .
you will well regret it bit .
oh go away and find a museum to hide in , the coastguards are on their way carol snapped , after all she had a fully functioning warship maybe not in name under her , and with that the spitfire winged over and buzzed us .
very intimidating i thought as i slipped out onto the bridge wing to watch the display , but the second time around the pilot remembered to select the right switches and eight rows of splashes came leaping towards me .
two things then happened simultaneously pierre , who had just collected his new toy from down below stepped from the hangar , sighted and pressed the trigger on the stinger .
its missile then streaked off in the direction of the spitfire , and the other thing that happened was that charlie cannoned into my back .
as i landed up against the steel side plating , bullets hammered on the other side of it , and then started to fly over my head , and charlie , who was unfortunately still in mid air , let out a grunt of pain and rolled away to one side .
i heard , rather than saw the spitfire explode , and then agnetha erupted onto the bridge wing and started to rip charlies clothes off .
as they were getting married in three weeks time i had invited them along on this trip more as a honeymoon rehearsal rather than serious work , so it wasnt entirely unexpected , but may be just a tad public .
because of his almost marital situation charlie had not been given a routine shake when i had appeared on the bridge a couple of hours earlier , but never one to be left out of things , when he woke up and found black suited sailors running around the ship , he was dressed and on the bridge in two shakes of a gnats tail ?
, and just in time to see me disappear out of the door .
i raised my head above the dodger just in time to see a shower of confetti , no piece larger than a tickler paper , flutter into the sea .
it was the waste of a beautiful aeroplane but those dummy guns were just a little too realistic for my liking .
charlie was very lucky , as he had flown serenely through the air , a bullet had entered the neck of his flak jacket .
it had then travelled down its entire length , fortunately doing no serious damage on its journey , and then exited , after first taking a quick bite out of his nether regions .
doctora clara insisted on putting a couple of stitches where the sun dont shine , after politely informing agnetha that get well kisses were just not going to work , but she could try again after she had finished ! ! !
as all this was going on the catalina was still circling above us , and it transpired later that they were furiously talking to el gordo back at the ranch , and he was beside himself .
apparently the pilot of the spitfire was his only son , and the drugs bobbing around in the water were his ticket into the super league of the drug running fraternity .
the crew of the catalina werent exactly sure which event was causing him the most grief , but one thing was clear , if they didnt return with the drugs then their only alternative was to fly into the nearest mountain so they devised a daring plan .
on either side of its fuselage , just aft of the parasol wing , the catalina had a large glass bubble .
crewmen of old could fire machine guns out of them , or if they were in the surveillance mode they could scan the oceans from them , or in the rescue role they could pull survivors inboard through them , they were really very handy things to have , and so a modern day use for one of them was to stand tweedle dumb the third td3 for short , a distant cousin of the o.k .
corral one , in the open hatch , with a long piece of rope .
he tied one end of the heaving line to a grappling hook , and the other end tightly around his wrist it would be more than his life was worth if he let go of the rope , and the creative pilots idea was to dart in before the nancy green boat got its knickers out of its twist , land , taxi passed the drugs , then td3 would fling out the hook , snag one of the connecting lines and then they could taxi away faster than that wreck could go , and retrieve the drugs at their leisure .
it sounded like a good plan in theory , but the lady s was just starting to turn about and head back towards the drugs , but the pilot thought he saw his window of opportunity , and barrelled in .
he lowered the tip floats , and that ended the good news , first he was too high , so he shoved the control yoke forward to lose some height , then he was to fast so he pulled up , and this went on for a few seconds before he carried out what could only be described by an onlooker as a controlled crash .
it shook the aircraft up , jolted the co pilots false teeth out , and knocked td3 off his feet .
the aircraft was going way too fast as it approached the drugs but td3 didnt realise this as he struggled to his feet and looked out of the blister .
he saw the drug bundles slipping quickly by , and threw the hook .
unfortunately for him it hooked the rope securing the last bundle , i say unfortunately because at any other time it would have been a brilliant throw , but as the catalina was travelling way too fast the coiled up rope quickly disappeared out of the blister .
td3 , never the brightest bulb in the box totally forgot that the end of the rope was still tied securely to his wrist , and ten large bundles of drugs , in a straight line make a very good impersonation of a sea anchor a small canvas parachute device attached to the end of a rope , that when thrown over the bow of a stationary boat brings the said boats bow into wind , lesson over .
first the rope went taut , then his arm was yanked out of its socket , and finally , just before his arm was completely ripped off , he was yanked bodily out of the catalina .
this is where david enters he had been watching what the bobbing amphibian was trying to do , but rightly guessed that it was really going way too fast to do it .
he scrutinized the planes blister for signs of more machine guns but saw none , so as a magnanimous gesture he let it continue on , but just in case he had a finger wrapped casually around the trigger of a browning .50 calibre m2 heavy machine gun that just happened to be now mounted on the bridge wing .
the spitfire had caught them all out , who would have thought that one would still have its real guns fitted in this day and age , so he was taking no chances this time , but as the catalina started to rise back into the air , after td3 had abandoned ship , he briefly squeezed the trigger , and the amphibian lost its dual trade status , its starboard wing tip float disintegrated .
he had taken many lives in his time , but he had never killed wantonly , so he just made sure that the miscreants would not be able to land on water again , well not until the float had been replaced anyway , so with the float damaged and td3 absent without leave the crew set course for dry land , praying feverently as they went that they could blame it all on him and possibly survive to see another sun rise .
as td3 broke surface his luck briefly took a turn for the better , he had no life jacket on , he couldnt swim , and he had one useless arm , but his good arm came in contact with a very buoyant bundle of drugs , so he hung on for dear life .
the lady s hove to close by and quickly lowered a sea boat .
he was then unceremoniously dragged into the small craft , searched , and when it was found that he was really quite seriously injured , he was treated marginally better , not that it stopped his mouth .
el gordo would be doing this to everyone , and that to everyone he only shut up when doctora clara finally slipped a needle into his arm .
his shoulder was a mess , but yet again he had a lucky break or was it a dislocation , lady s had a top of the line sick bay , and doctora clara botella had been a first rate trauma surgeon in the spanish navy , although the horrors that she had encountered in afghanistan made her give up full time surgery and go back to general practice .
she still kept her hand in at a local hospital , but never slept properly for weeks afterwards .
by the time td3 was out of surgery he refused to give his name the coastguard cutter had arrived , and photographed and retrieved the drugs .
they reckoned that it was a substantial amount in fact it could be the substantialist amount that they had encountered in many a long year .
as there was a death involved , we had to return under escort to the coast guards clearwater air station with them for a full investigation , and so the cutters master at arms head policeman came on board the lady s to escort his prisoners back to port rhip , although td3 was going nowhere anytime soon , he was firmly shackled to a bed in the sick bay , with nothing in reach but a disposable bed pan he was certainly not going to use one of my shiny stainless steel ones , and if the master at arms had only but known it , i reckoned that the other prisoner , lady s , could easily have bested the cutter in a fair fight .
the air station , which is tucked away in a corner of the st petersburg clearwater international airport , fortunately had sea access , so i didnt have to fit wheels to the sides of the lady s , but it was still a media scrum when we arrived , and everyone in authority that visited me only seemed interested in a free lunch rather than the boring facts of the case , so marcel was kept busy making eggs sunny side up , grits and brownies .
within twenty four hours he was adamant that although he was only a couple of meters away from the land of plenty , they would try and get him ashore at their peril , he was mortified that he might catch something unspeakable culinary wise , and the local chief of police , who was political rather than practical he could talk the hind legs off a donkey but had his heart was in the right place his wallet , was , after one full english breakfast with all the trimmings mine , although my tinnitus would never be the same again .
over the next few days things settle down and fortunately everyone accepted the fact the pierre had accidentally shot the aircraft down with a signal flare when he had tripped over a ring bolt on the flight deck , and the catalinas pristine bullet ridden float , that they had retrieved from the scene , was sent to a local museum as proof of an old war story by a local hero of his encounter with a u boat .
the only sad ish thing that occurred was that td3 , who had flatly refused to say anything after regaining consciousness committed suicide in solitary confinement .
the detective investigating his death commented that this grossly overweight fifty year old man had been an athletic marvel he could have gone for gold at the olympics .
apparently td3 had balanced on the end of his bunk , sprung three feet upwards , two feet forward , and then did a half twist to enable him to tie a piece of cord three times around a light fitting so he could then hang himself with it , and all this with one arm strapped up .
how the cord had gotten into the cell could not be explained at the present time as the night supervisor of the cell block was out of state choosing his new pickup truck .
a week later we were released i think they had handcuffed our anchor cable to a buoy , completely exonerated from the non crime of the century .
el gordo had not lost a son , spitfire , or td3 .
his son was alive and well and away on business in his aeroplane he had been speaking to him on the telephone only moments before the police had arrived by appointment .
his catalina had been destroyed in a fire at a nearby disused airfield weeks before , and he had never heard of td3 prove otherwise .
chapter 6 as we were in the area i thought it might be a good idea to do the florida experience , so carol found an empty parking slot and i got out the brochures .
disney world was a disaster , but it wasnt walts fault it was davids .
all day long i couldnt move a muscle without bumping into yet more muscle , hired muscle .
david was into close protection mode , with a capital c , he was taking el gordos threats seriously even if the police werent , so the next morning i reluctantly agreed with him and told carol to make preparations to get under way i certainly had enough shares in this boat to tell its captain where to go , and that was the signal for caroline to go into a flat spin .
daughter cindy , for some obscure reason had just loved the tee shirt that her parents had brought her back from palm beach , and would like one just like it from everywhere that they went without her .
they had forgotten to get her one from florida so hang on a sec boss ive just got to pop to the shops , so i stood on the flight deck along with david , idly watching his wife and agnetha , who was going along to keep her company , make their way quickly to the marina entrance there were some suitable looking souvenir shops just outside the barrier .
they slipped around the barrier and started to make their way across the road when two large vans came out of nowhere and screeched to a stop either side of them .
at first i thought that they had both been hit but then the vans drove off at high speed and there was no sign of caroline and agnetha anywhere .
david went mental , and i was not far behind , but there was nothing we could do , the vans were long gone by the time we arrived at the site .
very quickly the road filled with cars fitted with blue flashing lights , including the chief of polices , and i very publicly gave him a reality check .
he had assured me several days ago that el gordo was not a problem , so now i told him , in no uncertain terms , that i held him personally responsible for the safety of caroline and agnetha .
if anything happened to them then come election time he wouldnt even make chief of parking tickets .
david and charlie were out of it , but james was doing his job , and had been talking to detective 1st grade harry decker , who had been in charge of the crime scene until the chief had arrived .
it was obvious that he held his illustrious chief in even lower esteem than i did , so when the chief told me that he was leaving , to form a task group to hunt the perpetrators down , the detective tried to get a word in .
what about road blocks , aerial surveillance , c ... ?
if you have anything to say to me detective , say it through your supervisor , he tried to snarl , but it came out as more of a whinge , at the task group meeting in my conference room in two hours time , and as the police chief scurried away the detective stood in the middle of the road looking on in total disbelief .
james then took charge , he was an expert at quickly assessing the competency of officers so detective , lets get to the lady s , and then you can tell me what you need , and within fifteen minutes harry found out what it was like to be a police chief only with unlimited funds .
the first person that harry rang when he arrived on board was his brother , who was a special forces ranger .
he was based at a nearby fort and was visiting with him and his wife hilary whenever he had the time , ostensibly to catch up on some nephew time , although he thought that it might also have something to do with his wifes sister , she was vacationing with them for a while .
at the moment it was very quiet , ranger wise , so recently all harry had heard every time the cable news came on i was usually the lead story was , did i tell you i know his security guy , i owe him big time , look there he is , etc , etc , so his opening line was jim bob , i have a situation here , it concerns that limey guy that you know , his wife has just been kidnapped , and it looks like my guys have been ordered to go slow , can you help ?
he listened for a few minutes , grunted three times , said ok twice , and then hung up .
he then rang an unlisted number at the dea .
chuck i have a problem , and then went on to explain again what was happening , then do you have any addresses for el gordo fatty to those out of earshot .
just one ok , and then he hung up , and turned to james and said my brother will see what he can do , and my cousin will let me have some addresses in a few minutes , lets get busy .
he used every phone at his disposal , and scott to hack into some very off limit sites , but after fifteen minutes he sat back in disbelief , his first instincts had been right , all police air resources had been grounded to await a unified response to the situation , and no road blocks were to be set up as a complaint from a member of the public had been received , and of course it therefore had to be fully investigated , before this method of crime prevention could be used again , although individual officers , if their paper work was up to date should be on the look out for two white vans .
both vans that had taken caroline and agnetha had been black so i reached for my phone to ring the police chief .
whats the betting that he sends you for a colour blindness test before he does anything about it harry said , and he was almost right , they would amend that small detail the next time there was a bulletin update .
when will that be ?
i asked in exasperation .
after the task force meeting , and then he hung up on me , it was obvious to all and sundry that we were on our own , so as i was only the wallet i took a step back to let the professionals get on with it .
chuck quickly rang back with four addresses , one was a local town house , one was el gordos private club about thirty miles away and two were out of state , so dont forget you will need fbi assistance to go across the state line his cousin finished with .
in your dreams sunshine i finished with .
david was slowly getting back into the swing of things and contacted a company that specialised in satellites , not the tv kind the other kind , spying , and within half an hour we had four images on a screen , one image for each property , although apparently there were going to be a lot of angry people at langley around about now as they had just lost four of their birds .
as the images came on line the first thing that i noticed was a door hanging off its hinges at the first address , charlie had obviously already checked that one out , and within five minutes we watched as charlie , pierre and several of my crew enter the cat house , sorry club , with their universal search warrants in their hands mr colt had a lot to answer for .
lots of semi naked ladies streamed out but there was no sign of caroline or agnetha .
david then told charlie to return to the lady s as the other two addresses were miles away , and in opposite directions , so he would need air transportation .
that was when my mobile phone entered stage left .
it rang , which was very unusual as not many people know my number , but maria had apparently put this call through .
this is loo ten ant colonel hiram g chickenhymer the third , officer commanding the special forces detachment at fort dodge i think he said dodge , i understand that your little gar danged boat has some aviation fuel on board ?
err yes i replied , wondering where this conversation was going .
well son , i have a slight problem , i have two special ops black hawks in your vicinity and they seem to be running low on fuel .
any other time i would have told daddy where the nearest shell garage was , but i was feeling charitable , even if he did call the lady s a little boat .
a boat is a submarine .
well you had better send them on over then i told him .
well thank you kindly son , oh , and you wouldnt do me a favour would you ?
i have nothing for them to do for the next few hours , could you keep the crews and passengers entertained for me ?
certainly i said , and went aft to await the arrival of jim bob and his team .
i had to park one of the helicopters in the marinas car park , but after the crewman had delicately rammed the business end of a pump action assault shot gun under the yacht club secretarys nose , there seemed to be no problem with that .
it was also very strange that the helicopters only took about three pints of fuel between them .
harry had worked out that a ve hic le pro seed ing at the legal speed limit so as not to attract attention would take approximately four hours to drive to either of the last two addresses .
the first one was el gordos airfield , and the other one was a rather dilapidated looking stud farm .
after a very heated debate it was decided that the two helicopters would not be dispatched , one to each property , as that would only split our force in two , and also that there was no proof yet that caroline and agnetha would even end up at either property they may be going in totally the opposite direction .
three hours fifty nine minutes and fifty eight seconds after the kidnapping the camera covering the stud farm zoomed out .
an analyst at head office had spotted on his bigger picture a black ve hic le exiting an obscure freeway exit close by .
the black van pulled up outside the main house and a rather large passenger got out of the front passenger door and spoke to a female occupant of the farm , who quickly disappeared indoors , as did the two security staff patrolling the grounds , then he slid the side door open , and a blanket draped female was pushed out , and caroline did as she had been told to do by david , she looked up at the sky .
a positive id then the blanket fell to the ground .
that would explain why the tracking devices that she and agnetha had attached to their clothes werent functioning a tiny part of his brain told him , while the rest of it was working overtime , then agnetha was dragged from the van she was in no state to look anywhere .
chapter 7 after disembarking from the lady s and trotting down to the security barrier , caroline grabbed agnethas hand and started to cross the busy road , and they made it half way across before two black vans bracketed them in .
as she instinctively reached into her handbag for her spray one of the doors flew open and a very unsavoury looking man sprayed her first , and as her knees started to crumble she saw agnetha receive the same treatment from another man , a very fat man .
as she slowly regained consciousness she did just as her david had taught her , she didnt move , or make a sound .
she realised that she was naked , with only an old blanket thrown over her , and was well and truly tied to the side of the utility van .
as she sat there regaining full consciousness she started using what senses that she had available to her to assess the situation .
she was obviously in a moving vehicle , presumably one of the vans , and it smelled terrible , with body odour and other unidentifiable smells , and then she heard the animal like grunting .
there was tape over her mouth but not over her eyes so she slowly opened them , and what she saw made her go rigid .
she tried to scream and lash out but to no avail , and the two men just laughed and continued brutalising agnetha .
slowly she calmed down and quickly realised that both men were drunk , bottles of beer rolled all around the van floor , and agnetha had obviously been unconscious for some considerable time because she was in a terrible state , and not making a sound .
she presumed that they had started on agnetha while she was unconscious , but then she must have woken up and fought viciously , scratching and biting her attackers , caroline could see untreated wounds on both their bodies .
their reply had been obvious , a large pair of blood stained pliers and a hammer lay on the floor .
she then looked closer at the unconscious womans body they had been systematically torturing her .
for perhaps the first time in her life she one hundred percent prayed with every fibre of her being , not for the salvation of these animals , or her own safety , but that charlie would exact retribution on them and the more painful the better .
as they sat back against the side of the van , exhausted from their exertions , the fat one drunkenly introduced everyone .
he of course was el gordo , not because of my size you understand , but because of my importance wishful thinking , and his friend was harley his hobby was driving his motor bike over other peoples body parts , and finally there was zoomer , the driver .
zoomer was into making specialised movies they were called snuff movies , where the principle participant was killed on camera .
these films were in great demand by a discerning clientele and they would pay good money for a quality film , and guess what bitch , you are going to be the star in your very own movie , and a copy of it will be sent to your boss , michaels .
apparently the only reason that she was still in one piece was that he owed pencil a favour he wanted to be the principle supporting actor in her film .
he then went on to explain in graphic detail why he was called pencil , and it had absolutely nothing to do with his writing skills it was because of his creativity when using very sharp pencils on snuff stars .
just as things started to look as though they might not wait for pencil , zoomer shouted back to them that they were approaching their exit .
quickly they took final swigs from the open bottles of beer in the ice box they had obviously come prepared for a long wait and after dressing , el gordo managed to squeeze his bulk into the front passenger seat of the van .
as the van drew up outside the dilapidated house el gordo shouted to his woman to go back inside , checked that the two roving heavies were out of sight , and then slid the side door back .
harley had cut the ropes securing caroline to the side of the van and then tied her hands behind her back and hobbled her ankles so that she could walk , just , but couldnt make any sudden moves , and as the door slid open he kicked her over to fatty in the doorway , and then grabbed the other one by the hair .
caroline looked up at the sky and hoped that david was watching , then she did a terrible thing , she shrugged her shoulders and the blanket fell to the ground .
if this doesnt make him want to kill these animals nothing will she thought .
she was dragged into the house and sat down on a hard chair in what was obviously the home gymnasium , and agnetha was dumped unceremoniously on the floor beside her , she didnt make a sound .
her chair was dragged backwards up to the wall bars and her elbows were roughly tied to them , and then the end of the rope was looped savagely around her neck .
after a few slaps , just for the fun of it , they then left her alone , and within a few minute she could hear them tucking into a hearty meal , and then all went quiet , hopefully they had fallen asleep .
if she tried to struggle she would choke herself , which seemed like a good option for later on , but first she must look at the window , after first confirming her worst fears , so caroline studied agnetha closely as she lay there on the floor in front of her .
she studied her as if she were a cadaver lying on a mortuary slab , which in effect she was , but she had to be one hundred percent certain , she didnt want to have any guilty feelings in the future over what would surely follow .
finally , as agnethas skin slowly changed colour she was one hundred percent certain , now she would not feel guilty when they arrived .
david had taught her how to estimate time without the aid of a clock , but that trick wasnt necessary , the gyms clock ticked away as she quietly watched the corner of the window , and one hour and seven minutes after settling down to watch it , a small red dot appeared in its corner , and she started to hum , as if in pain .
the dot started to circle and she stopped humming .
david had found her , and she could now talk to him if it was safe .
it was safe .
hello my darling , is that you ?
she whispered .
the dot moved up and down , yes .
im fine my darling , is charlie listening in ?
the dot moved from side to side , no .
good , agnetha hasnt made it they raped and tortured her before she died .
if that didnt sign their death warrants then nothing would , and as the dot shook in the corner she could only imagine what was going through her husbands mind , then she heard the door handle squeak , someone was on the other side of the door so she continued whispering but this time to agnetha , as if trying to rouse her .
its pointless talking to her you stupid bitch harley said , she was dead before we even dragged her out of the truck .
that would at least take some of the guilt off david he couldnt have saved her even if he had been here waiting for the van to arrive , then he matter of factly continued , as if they were discussing the weather , but you wont have long to wait to finish your jabbering with her , the pencil has just arrived , and with that zoomer entered the gym , carrying a state of the art movie camera and sound equipment , we dont want to miss any of your little screams now do we he joked , waving a handful of microphones in her direction .
behind him in waddled el gordo and another even fatter man , or was it the other way round ?
if either of them was the pencil then he didnt get his name from his build , he was obviously el gordos twin brother .
as caroline quietly sat watching the preparations for her death being made , she absently thought about the clinical reasons behind each of their odd behaviours .
it was obvious that fatty 1 had been sent over the top by the death of his son and the loss of the drugs , but what about his twin brother fatty 2 ?
then she quickly realised that whatever happened to one , happened to the other one as well , after fatty 2 stubbed his toe on a piece of gym equipment and fatty 1 went ouch and rubbed his toe , very weird .
harley on the other hand was just your average common or garden paranoid schizophrenic , but zoomer was fascinating to watch , he obviously had advanced signs of obsessive compulsive disorder as he set out the microphones for the sixth time , but there was definitely a touch of dissociative identity disorder in him as well , as he argued continuously with himself , in two distinct accents. , and they all obviously had underlying sexual problems they were dirty old men , which explained why they all seemed to get on so well together .
fatty 1 , el gordo , was the first one to notice that caroline wasnt writhing and screaming and begging for mercy .
whats up bitch , looking forward to it are you hee hee hee .
he really did think that he was so so funny and so did his brother .
oh most definitely fatso she said in her primmest english voice .
this made both of them very angry indeed .
is that censored equipment ready yet zoomer he demanded , and when he got no reply he slowly rotated his bulk around , just in time to see zoomer slide gracefully to the floor , sound asleep .
fortunately there was a gentleman in black lowering the camera to the floor beside him so it did not get damaged .
harley they both screamed , but harley was already sound asleep against the wall bars , and both then realised that something was not quite going according to plan as they both looked down the wrong ends of seven assorted weapons of personal destruction , and one ten cent pea shooter , which quietly went pufft .
a tiny dart flew into fatty 2 s bulbous neck , fatty 1 grabbed his own neck and they both flopped to the floor unconscious , and a rather nice looking american gentleman well nice eyes anyway , the rest of him was covered in black looked sideways at pierre and said in awe you have just got to tell me where i can get one of those things from man !
chapter 8 when the four of them finally woke up they all quickly realised that they were in really deep doo doo .
first off they were all taped spread eagled to the wall bars , secondly one of the men in black was cradling the blond bitchs head in his arms , and he was sobbing quietly , thirdly another of the men in black was hugging the other bitch close to him , and she was sobbing , fourthly none of the black suits had police , dea , fbi or any other letters of the alphabet printed on the backs of them , and worst of all was number five el gordos wife was sitting quietly in a chair opposite them .
many years ago francesca had enjoyed being brought into the world as a liebermann , even though her mother had passed away giving birth to her .
her childhood had been idyllic , and she realised from an early age that she owed her father a lot , and so when she reached her eighteenth birthday , and her father suggested that she marry percival snoddgrass , an overweight business associate of his , she did so , and he moved into her room on the farm .
within a year she was with child , and three years later she didnt know by whom .
her dear little percival the second had been playing with his felt tips one day when an indelible marker got mixed in with them by mistake .
percival the first entered the room and his son dutifully put his arms around his fathers neck to give him a hug , but unfortunately the felt tip was still in his hand .
unnoticed by his father a bright orange line was left on the back of his neck , which over the next few days went away , came back , went away again , and then finally came back again , and this answered a lot of questions for francesca .
she had always thought her husband had a bit of a split personality , and wondered why he always had cast iron alibis when the police came a calling , even when she knew he was elsewhere , so she had a full , frank and meaningful conversation with him , it was long overdue .
almost immediately he burst into tears and told her to stop shouting at him as he wasnt her husband , then he screeched get in here shes giving me a headache .
it turned out that she had not only married percival snoddgrass , but she had also married his identical twin as well , they had both been sharing her , and the house was so large that an extra room had been secretly created for the other one to reside in when at home but not on duty .
as she looked at the twins she was amazed at how identical they really were , then she spotted the only difference , one even they didnt realise that they had , percival had a very slight squint to his left eye , and his brother cedric had one in his right , or was it the other way round ?
percival , who was the dominant one of the pair then took charge as her father was having a holiday at the state penitentiary , and he made a command decision , his woman had to be kept in line .
francesca knew that her father had gone to pieces after her mothers death , and that the stud farm had quickly fallen into decline , with all the stallions and mares eventually being rented out to other breeders , with the proceeds and income being placed into the joint account .
this should now be one of lifes little lessons to us all when you set up a joint account make sure that there are at least two names on it .
delbert , her father , had his own bank account so he had not noticed this slight oversight , even when his wifes will had been read .
she had not been happy with the way her husband had been behaving recently , getting into drugs and unsavoury company , so when she found out that she was with child , and there were grave complications , she secretly made a new will .
the stud farm , horses , adjacent properties and everything else that her parents had left to her , she left to her unborn child , along with the joint account but nothing could be touched until the child reached twenty five years of age .
her father should of course have been very upset at this situation , but unfortunately for him , and fortunately for francesca , he was stoned out of his mine at the reading , he thought it was hilarious , and as he never made rehab he never understood the consequences of the situation .
after discovering the reality of her marriage life changed dramatically for francesca , she was to all intent and purposes a prisoner in her own house , she could go nowhere without an escort .
then her father , who had been starting to make things difficult for the brothers grim had an accident in cell block h. he slipped on a bar of soap in the showers and landed on a toothbrush , a very sharp toothbrush very careless .
things then got even more unpleasant for francesca when harley was released from prison a few months later , the same prison , the same block , and the same shower that her father had been in , and moved in with them .
apparently he had never met her father , but the first thing that he stole on his release was a new toothbrush .
the only thing that seemed to go right for her after that was that her husband , the one with the left squint , changed his name to el gordo it was much better than percival snoddgrass .
fortunately for francesca the twins , harley , zoomer and percival the second were all away in cuba collecting some merchandise on her twenty fifth birthday what cruel and heartless customs man was going to slice open a five year olds teddy ?
when a solicitor came a calling .
wisely she sent her minders out of earshot as it turned out that she was now a very wealthy woman in her own right , and all of it was from legally gotten gains .
the solicitor had a shrewd suspicion of what the situation was at the farm , he had represented her father and his associates on more than one occasion , so he had done his homework and had all the forms and bank details to hand , for a price of course , and once all the paperwork had been completed , and his cheque signed , he tried to persuade francesca to return to the local town with him , she would be safe there , but unfortunately percival the second was with percival t ... sorry el gordo , she just could not leave without him , although over the next few years she wished she had , he turned out to be a right chip off the old block .
when her husband s returned from their successful trip , she asked them for a belated birthday present .
as they were ecstatic with the results of their trip they had no compunction at all at gutting poor teddy , high on sampling the merchandise , and slightly embarrassed at forgetting her birthday why , i dont know , they had never remembered one before they readily agreed to her having a computer , what harm could it do , and so over the next twenty years francesca not only became a self taught computer whiz , she also became a financial and stud whiz as well .
she accepted the limitations of her life style and settled down to re assemble her mothers stud farm , electronically .
she matched some of her aging breading stock with some new young blood and it proved an instant success .
her new line then created newer lines , and eventually she was acknowledged as one of the top unseen breeders in the country but , as topsy would say , all work and no play makes jack a dull boy , so she started to listen to the father of her son he had a right eyed squint as he talked in his sleep .
the pencil was not like his brother in one important way he was numeric as against physical .
whilst percival was quite happy shooting someone , either with a bullet or heroine , cedric was more at home with a computer , and he quickly became the accountant of the family , so when he talked in his sleep francesca knew what he was prattling on about , and she became almost as knowledgeable about the family accounts as cedric , then cedric branched out and went on line .
the problem with dirty money is that it can cost a small fortune to clean it up launder it , anything from ten to seventy five cents in the dollar , depending on the amount and where it came from , but cedric accidentally came across an almost fool proof way of laundering it .
he of course kept that little secret to himself , but he put it discreetly about , anonymously of course , that he had a service to offer , at a price twenty percent .
his anonymous source would arrange for 100,000 to be delivered to pencil , it always had to be in 100,000 bundles , and on receipt of it he would hand over a bank book tied to a legitimate bank account with 80,000 residing in it .
of course cedric would win some , lose some when he came to the laundering the dirty 100,000 but more often than not he made a small profit , not that he was too worried about it he was thinking of the bigger picture .
he knew that things could not carry on as they were forever , so he started up his retirement fund , not the small profit that he made on his twenty percent of the transaction , it was the other eighty percent that he was after .
every legitimate bank account that he created had installed in it a back door .
computer programmers , when creating a new programme or game routinely installed back doors to enable themselves to jump to specific parts , without wading through the whole programme all the time .
in the ideal world these were then closed when the new programme was ready for distribution , but in reality the programmer was usually too busy on his or her next project by then and it was just forgotten about .
enter a snuff film the pencil was demonstrating his mastery of the said implement when a nubile young programmer related this information to him , hopefully in exchange for her life .
she gave him all the details of how to get into several large banking organisations , and how to create accounts , backwards .
the information didnt do her or the cameraman much good but it worked wonders for him .
he would electronically enter a bank by his back door , pick an amount 80,000 , create an account number for it , choose a fictitious name , then embed his own password in it , so that he could gain access to the whole thing , any time , and give it to some unsuspecting crook for the 100,000 .
why didnt he just take ten million dollars for himself ?
someone might just notice it going out .
banks were like water companies , they expected leaks , but they only really got worried when it becomes a torrent .
his way , small amounts would be continuously dripping out , to different people , who had no physical or electronic connection with each other , all over the country , and whilst some accounts would be cleaned out immediately , he could access the others even if the new owner changed the password at will .
several of his larger clients had many accounts , and were only withdrawing from one or two , and there were even a few who were depositing funds in them , increasing his nest egg even more .
back to the present after francesca had been sent to her room by el gordo she heard the usual sounds , and was pleased that she had been spared the sights , then her two regular escorts stopped escorting .
this intrigued her , so she stuck her head out of the door .
jim bob placed a finger over her lips and guided her back into the room , ably assisted by his uzi sub machine gun .
at first jim bob , or as he was also known as captain j decker of the first ranger battalion , united states army which was a close relative of the british sas was a bit sceptical at the calmness of this lady , but soon warmed to her when he realised that she had been waiting for something like this to happen for many years , and she was really glad that he had nice eyes .
he quickly found out that the two sleeping patrol persons were her minders , so would you please be gentle with them , and able and amy , who were in the next room were her live in staff .
they were over sixty and wouldnt hurt a fly , but the remainder of the people in the house , four of them in total were up for grabs .
he didnt think that she liked them very much .
unfortunately he had to restrain the three of them , but not too tightly , and then he was eagerly off to join the limeys , the frenchie , and the rest of his squad to cause chaos and mayhem , but it was all a bit of an anti climax really , pierre could have done it all on his own .
well at least he , jim bob , fearless us ranger , had single handedly stopped the camera from getting damaged , and as it turned out it was very fortuitous indeed .
after all the targets had been subdued he went back to talk to francesca , he had a feeling that she wanted to talk , but first he had a request had she any new sheets in the house .
in the bottom draw of the wardrobe in the master bedroom she said , but why .
jim bob then explained that he wanted unsullied sheets to wrap agnetha in , and to preserve carolines modesty .
cut me loose young man she demanded , so he did just like that .
she then led him to her bedroom , opened a draw and extracted a beautiful hand sewn sheet , it had intricate patterns all over it , and handed it to him .
when she was n't computing she was embroidering , and the sheet that she had removed had taken her years to complete .
i hope this will go some way to making amends for my husbands actions she said , and then took it back from him .
show me where she is .
pierre lifted charlie gently off agnetha and sat him down on carolines chair , he was in a trance .
he then wrapped some towels that he had found around agnetha , but was then at a loss what to do next , until a rather attractive lady walked into the room and took over .
no one but jim bob seemed to know who she was , but if it was ok by him , he was happy .
caroline was the first to understand what this lady was going to do and disentangled herself from david .
david , take charlie outside she ordered , nodding to his weapons .
david understood and eased charlie out of the chair and guided him out of the room , holding him in such a way that ensured that if he did snap out of his trance he couldnt use any of his weapons .
she then got pierre to gently carry agnetha into the adjacent shower room , and after laying her on a massage table she dismissed him .
between them the two women , total strangers , went to work on agnetha .
first they pushed the table close to the shower and gently cleaned her nothing was too personal , and as much evidence as possible was removed of those two animals , and once her hair had been dried and combed out , and some make up applied to hide a few of the marks , they wrapped agnetha tightly in the exquisite sheet until only her face , with her closed eyes could be seen .
francesca then recalled that rather nice frenchman , and had him carry agnetha gently to her private room , they never visited me here she said , they always used my old room .
caroline did not understand the full meaning of what this woman meant but she instinctively knew that it was the right thing for agnetha .
charlie finally collected his thoughts , and started issuing orders , even to david , and the four main participants were taped to the wall bars , and the remainder , with the exception of francesca were locked in a secure stable , well away from the main house after of course first being given the opportunity of a comfort break .
the four miscreants were then given antidotes by pierre and as they waited for it to have the desired affect francesca introduced the animals to them , and briefly recounted hers and their life stories .
the only time that a tear almost came anywhere near her eyes was when she spoke of her son , but he had over the years followed in his fathers and uncles whichever way around that was footsteps .
for the last three years she had hardly even seen him , he was always out at the airfield flying aeroplanes , or ripping wings off butterflies .
jim bobs act of kindness to the camera was a godsend for charlie , so as jim bob set up the equipment , david and charlie went outside for a full , frank and meaningful conversation .
david knew just what agnetha had meant to charlie , and he understood what was going through charlies mind , sod turn the other cheek , it was time for an eye for an eye , tooth for a tooth , and nothing that he could say would change it .
he pitied the four thugs , not a lot , but a little .
once francesca had finished relating her story , and each of the now conscious four men had added their own two pennth zoomers second person vernacular was very enlightening , she was taken to join her friends .
her parting comment to charlie was , it has been a pleasure never to have met you , which implied that what she and the other prisoners would be telling the police would not quite be the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth .
what she said to pierre , in french , made him blush , but he eagerly nodded his agreement .
one of the rangers had found the farms garage , and parked an suv outside the main door , alongside the two black hawks which , once the excitement had calmed down had relocated to be closer to their passengers , and after a tear stained caroline gave charlie a big hug and a kiss , and david , pierre and the rangers had shaken his hand , they climbed into the waiting black hawks and disappeared off into the distance plausible deniability .
the suv was for charlie and agnetha .
where have the rest of the losers gone you moron zoomer one asked , as charlie switched on the camera and sound equipment .
in reply charlie pulled out his magnum .50 desert eagle gas operated semi automatic pistol he preferred the israeli version , and placed its large black hole between zoomers eyes .
that shut him up , but not harley .
hey head when are you going to miranda us , he was starting to get a little bit worried at the lack of letters on the back of charlies overalls .
you have the right to remain silent .
anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law .
you have the right to an attorney present during questioning .
if you can not afford an attorney , one will be appointed for you .
do you understand these rights ?
charlie recited his favourite tv program was csi miami .
then , to the obvious delight of both zoomers he lowered his pistol , but not all the way down .
bang and zoomers wedding tackle another one of topsys favourite sayings was spread all over the back of the wall bars .
oops , charlie said .
as his screams slowly subsided , in direct proportion to the amount of blood pouring onto the floor , it then dawned on the other three that the only thing that was in doubt here was how they were going to die .
harley was the first to be forthcoming he had been ripping off the twins for years , so he explained explicitly where all his ill gotten gains were secreted hopefully in mitigation for his behaviour .
charlie quickly relocated the said ill gotten gains into a rucksack , as he had now passed that point of no return and would need funds to live on , although according to francesca this would only be loose change .
once he was satisfied that harley had nothing further to contribute to the proceedings charlie exchanged his desert eagle for his k bar and slid its point inside the top of harleys shirt , and then slowly pulled it down .
first the front of harleys shirt parted , and then his belt , and finally his trousers fell to the floor , or as far as his spread eagled legs would allow .
harley must then have had a revelation as he clamped his mouth tightly shut , started to shake his head back and forth , and whine .
charlie locked eyes with him and reached down with his free hand .
he reversed the k bar and with one swift stroke he ruined harleys chances of becoming a father , permanently .
harleys eyes and mouth opened wide , but the scream that was about to emit from the gaping orifice was stifled , charlie rammed harleys pride and two joys into his open mouth , and then pinched his nose .
after all movement had ceased he turned to the brothers , see , i can be bought , i wasnt going to pinch his nose .
it was at this stage of the game that he was glad of the camera , or at least the microphones as the pencil , perhaps not surprisingly poured forth all the details on his pension funds , as well as his and his brothers accounts , both on and off shore , along with how to access all the information on his laptop .
there was one small problem though the laptop had a fingerprint reader on it .
when charlie told him his solution to that problem , instructions on how to disable the reader were quickly forthcoming .
charlie didnt think that there was much left for el gordo to barter with but no , he was full of surprises .
how do you think we got away so easily ?
half the police are in our pockets .
then he spilled the beans , big time , and in glorious technicolor .
once all the vocalising had been concluded both twins whinged that they wanted to be shot in the head , me first please , no me first please .
a reasonable enough request from both of them , it would be a relatively pain free demise , but then charlie thought of what one brother had done to his agnetha , and what the other one was about to do to caroline , so he walked slowly into the kitchen and selected two very sharp knives .
on return to the gymnasium he walked up to the brothers they were side by side on the bars , inserted the knives , and slowly pulled them up and then watched in amazement as the entrails of both brothers entwined on the floor , slowly twisting around long after their owners had expired .
chapter 9 when i heard over my phone that the situation was under control i was both elated and saddened at the outcome , then i got a surprise .
boss charlie asked can i ask you for a favour , please dont inform either the chief of police or the local police hereabouts just yet .
harry had an inkling of what was going on but kept his mouth shut , and when the black hawks finally lifted off from the stud farm i thought it was virtually over , but then the lead pilot told us that charlie , with agnetha had been left behind , so we continued to wait , and eventually charlie rang me again on my direct number could he have a word with harry and me in private ?
by now he was on the other side of the valley from the stud farm , and had just watched the local police enter it and release francesca and her companions he had given them an anonymous tip off that shots had been heard coming from the farm .
harry , do you know of any discreet undertakers he continued , i need agnetha to be properly cremated so that her parents can have something to mourn , and then went on to explain why he would not be returning to me , ever , and why money was now not going to be a problem for him , fortunately not in too much detail plausible deniability , although perhaps he could contact harry in the future to discuss similar situations .
he was now outside the law , but he didnt consider himself to be a criminal in the accepted sense of the word , perhaps he could be useful to him then he related what el gordo had told him .
from the comfort of his local bar a doctor with a shiny red nose certified that agnetha had died from injuries received in a road traffic accident , he thought it would be a terrible waste of drinking time to actually view her body , and so that evening , after sitting alone through agnethas after hours cremation service agnethas religion apparently stated that her funeral should take place as soon as possible after death , usually immediately following a 50,000 cash donation to the charity of the undertakers choice charlie sat in an obscure motel room , on the road to nowhere in particular .
he played back the audio side of the recording that he had made , noting down the instructions and then scoured the pencils computer .
on the way to the motel he had stopped twice , once for a change of clothes and then at a late night multi media store to purchase a laser printer and fax machine .
just after two oclock in the morning his new fax machine started earning its keep , and three hours later i rang the chief of polices home number courtesy of harry and woke him up .
good morning chief , i hope i havent woken you up , i just thought that you should know that caroline and agnetha have both turned up safe and well , it was joy riders .
i have spoken to their parents and alls well that ends well .
now that did wake him up .
two days later , just before the lady s was about to set sail , i held a press conference , well it was a press conference to the press , but to the chief of police and three of his senior staff it was a free lunch .
at first he politely refused , he had heard what had happened to el gordo and didnt believe one little bit the story about rival drug gangs that was doing the rounds , but when i told him that he would be seated between the governor and the mayor his sense of fear left him just think of the photo opportunity .
first off , before the press con ... . sorry the lunch , it was drinky poos time and chiefy thought it was a bit odd that the governor , the mayor , the attorney general , the head of internal affairs and some of his officers didnt seem at all that happy to see him , as he , his deputy , the head of traffic and the head of the aviation division strutted in .
take a seat please i told them mentally reminding myself to do a seat count later , and then when they were all seated i had lied about him sitting between the governor and the mayor , it was between two internal affairs officers , but id had my fingers crossed behind my back at the time so it wasnt a real lie i continued , remember what i said about holding you personally responsible for the safety of caroline and agnetha i said .
yes he muttered but whats the problem , you told me yourself that they are both safe and well .
i lied , i said , and suddenly the room was full of deaf people .
i slid four envelopes across the table and instructed them to open them , and after reading what was enclosed within for a few minutes , his three colleagues very carefully , using fingertips only , removed their weapons and laid them on the table , accompanied a few seconds later by their shields .
they then slowly stood up , were handcuffed and led away , then the chief i purposefully used a lower case c asked what i had in store for him .
first off interrupted the head of internal affairs , weapon and shield on the table now .
slowly the soon to be ex chief of police opened his jacket , i employ other people to carry the guns , and then he removed his shield from his belt and placed it on the table .
the governor then stood and took over , if i may mr michaels , first off everything that has gone on in this room is off the record , right , and everyone nodded , so he continued .
mr michaels has brought certain information to my attention that can not be overlooked , but he has requested that these proceeding take place here on the lady s for , as he freely admits , his own personal gratification before he provides the hard evidence , and in the circumstances i believe that it is a reasonable request , and then he continued .
mr stumpen no wonder he liked chief better , the dismissal of your senior officers can be disguised in the short term as routine administrative re assignments , but unfortunately your removal can not come under that heading .
to save your family any short term embarrassment mr michaels has agreed that you may publicly resign , although of course you will be under arrest as you do this .
do you agree to this ?
twenty minutes later ex chief stumpen , totally humiliated at the news conference the press had not believed a word that he said walked down the lady ss gangway accompanied by two iad officers .
as he walked towards the marina exit for some obscure reason the iad cars had had to park outside the marina as the half empty car park inside was apparently full he stopped , turned , and looked up in my direction then before anyone could react he bent down , pulled a small back up piece from an ankle holster placed the barrel in his mouth and pulled the trigger .
the calibre of the revolver was so small that the bullet did not have the velocity to exit the back of his skull , it just rattled around inside for a while , but it still had the desired effect .
as i looked on i couldnt work up any sorrow for the man , shock yes but not sorrow , then i looked in the direction of marina main entrance , just in time to see an suv , with heavily tinted windows and dirty , unreadable plates , pull away into the traffic .
when i had said to charlie over the phone that i owed him my life , twice over , and if there was absolutely anything that i could do for him , just ask , he asked but ex chief of police stumpens small calibre revolver had just saved him the job .
the excitement sort of went out of my holiday after that , sir richard b and david c would just have to wait a little longer for the honour of my company , and so the next day teddy came to collect me i just wasnt in the mood to socialise , or cheerfully wave back at the crowds when i was out in public .
what i was in dire need of was a bit of hunter therapy .
chapter 10 i had been back at el campo for three days when i found out that i had upset someone big time in the good old u.s of a , although it really wasnt a person singular , it was the fbi , apparently they had just got hold of the unofficial story of the incident .
first they were furious that they hadnt been called in for the kidnapping that never was , that was within their remit .
that had got nothing to do with me i pointed out , that had been chief stumpens decision but as he was now dead apparently i was the next in line .
why , because i had authorised an across a state line operation that had never happened , and again it was their part of ship , sorry , within their remit .
francesca and her merry band were gamely sticking firmly to their stories , but someone on my side must have leaked it the fbi as they now had charlies name .
he was now on the top of the fbis unofficial most wanted list .
my staff and i were being protected by a ring of highly paid attorneys , and charlie , if he didnt want to be found , wouldnt be , but they had found agnetha in a ups box , charlie had been sending her home to her parents .
what use an urn full of ash could be to them i just didnt know , perhaps it was a macabre attempt to try and flush charlie out in some way , but they didnt know about my little black book not the electric one the paper one , which i kept well and truly securely locked away , and under h , for hrh , i found his personal number .
as he had been leaving after spending a very relaxing long week end with sandra and me in late february he had given it to me , just in case .
this was definitely a 'just in case case .
early on in january one of hrhs grey suits had arrived at el campo and tried to rip us to pieces , security wise .
david was ready to shoot him and hide the body in a motorway flyover as he explained for the umpteenth time about the electronic surveillance at el campo , but it just wasnt going in , and a week after the grey suit had left el campo , muttering to himself about childs play , i was woken at two oclock in the morning , not by someone ringing me but by david clamping my arm to my side .
dont switch on the light he said we have a situation , but there was a chuckle in his voice , apparently we had been invaded , but he knew by whom , it was the sas , so i left sandra sleeping like a baby as i looked for my brown trousers , and then he went on to explain after the suit had departed he was sure that something like this was going to happen , and sure enough it must have gone whinging to the army about how lax security was at el campo , and could they do something to prove to hrh how dangerous it was in that desolate third world country he really was cruising for a bruising .
the sas had obviously got the job , sorry training exercise , and carried out a halo parachute drop into el campo .
there were four of them on the exercise and they had been spotted ever before they landed , the suit hadnt taken in a word that david had said .
the duty security team had been instructed to inform david if anything like this happened , rather than charge in all guns blazing , and this is where scott comes in .
david had mentioned to scott about the new fangled radios that he had used in afghanistan , not giving away any national secrets of course , and scott bet him that he could crack the system in a week it had taken him four days , so as david listened out on his pirate radio he quickly realised who was out there , it was captain , now major , cummins , the second in command of that fateful afghan detachment and the one who had bubbled him to the hierarchy , he had obviously gotten his thirty pieces of silver , his old mate dennis , and two new squaddies that he didnt know , although one of them had made a bad landing and damaged his ankle .
david wanted his pound of flesh or was it now a kilo ?
but didnt want the rest to suffer , especially the young squaddie with the gammy ankle .
major cummings was insisting that this was a realistic exercise so just shut up and follow procedure , and so charlie was dispatched to bring the squaddie in , with , as it turned out , a broken ankle , via the centro salud in san miguel .
as they x rayed and plastered his ankle he carried out his routine radio checks with the major , still complaining bitterly , but now with a smile on his face .
after hed had a shower and caroline had found him a change of clothes , the squaddie was shown into my personal study .
it had no windows in it so no light would shine out , and eventually he was joined by the other two reluctant volunteers for the mission , both freshly showered and changed , and they all kept up their periodic radio checks with the major for the remainder of the night .
charlie had frightened the life out of all three of them when he had whispering to them , his mouth only inches from their faces bang , bang youre dead , so please dont use your radio .
when it was realised that major cummings was the whistle blower he suddenly became very unpopular with the rest of the regiment , but he wouldnt take the hint and resign , and colonel jameson just didnt have enough hard evidence to push him , so when the special exercise involving david was conceived he rang the colonel , confidentially of course , for some advice , and the advice that he got was send cummings although the colonel failed to mention the equipment that he knew to be at el campo .
as an independent witness wo2 dennis farthing was volunteered to go along , along with two new guys , for the experience .
as the sun rose slowly into the sky david was all for letting the major really suffer , but i put my foot down and walked out onto my balcony , once i had been assassinated then the exercise would be over .
the major went ballistic over the radio weve got him , weve got him he screeched , whilst peering down his snipers scope , and then quickly shut up as dennis and the two squaddies joined me .
i lifted my mobile phone and pressed call , and according to charlie , who was watching him through davids sniper scope , the fearless major cummings leapt about a foot into the air .
charlie had placed a mobile phone at the side of his head , almost touching him , with reveille as the ring tone .
when he finally answered it , at my third attempt , i said bang , bang youre dead now what would you like for breakfast ?
his reply was unprintable , and two hours later a special duties royal air force hercules touched down and collected dennis and the squaddies from my front door , and then taxied around to the middle of the airfield to pick up major cummings and of course he hadnt touched the breakfast that i had sent out to him .
apparently he had broken a stack of standing orders , especially the one about injuries received whilst on training exercises , so he was given the choice , jump or be pushed , he jumped , and scott got a classified contract with the army .
whatever happened to the suit ?
i hear you ask , the same thing , jump or be pushed .
colonel jameson was not at all pleased that he had been put in a no win situation .
if he had known what he was really up against he would have tried to handle it differently .
now where were we ?
oh yes , hrh .
do you have any contacts over there i asked him , and if so could you please have a quiet word with them to try and sort this debacle out .
certainly andrew , no problemo ? .
oh !
and cammy was pondering only the other day when we might be imbibing the suns rays , spanish style perhaps after the summer rush ?
blackmail noted and accepted i sat back and waited .
two hours later my phone rang , it was the president of the united states of america , and he had just had his ear bent by the secretary general of the united nations , and he was just calling to let me know that 1 .
the director of the fbi now had another rectal orifice , 2 .
that agnetha was safely in a diplomatic pouch , and on her way to sweden and that 3 .
he had a few days clear after the g8 summit in a couple of months time , oh and 4 .
did i realise that the secretary general was very partial to southern spain ?
me thinks i should rename my home hotel el campo .
mrs blake , make up the spare z beds please .
within a few days i had an invitation from agnethas parents to attend their daughters laying to rest and i let it be known around the place that anyone that would like to , would be more than welcome to accompany me to the service , an so two days later one hundred and twenty seven people and i climbed aboard an airbus 320 and flew to sweden .
marcus had been sent off the day before with the simple instruction , find one hundred and twenty eight bed and breakfasts by tomorrow please .
i think he was starting to get a bit peeved at these missions as i suddenly became the proud owner of one the best hotels in sweden .
i think agnethas mum and dad were also a bit worried about all their daughters friends descending on their small coastal community , situated a few kilometres outside gothenburg , but marcus had been a busy little bee organising a fleet of small coaches to ferry everyone around , plus books of free tickets to the liseberg amusement park for those that wished to celebrate agnethas short life perhaps a little bit more energetically .
i spent the evening entertaining agnethas parents and siblings in my hotel they were lovely people who i would have met in a few weeks time anyway , but under happier circumstances at agnetha and charlies wedding , but during the evening i took agnethas mum and dad aside and had a quiet word with them with maria interpreting , charlie had asked me for another favour .
they were simple folk , in the nicest possible way , and his fianc had been sending them money each month to help them out , but of course that would now stop .
he himself was now in a position to send them money but it would be dirty money , and he didnt think it was right for them to have to live on drug money , they were just too nice a couple , and so could i possibly help ?
of course i could , i was sure that there was a company insurance policy laying around somewhere gathering dust that stated that if a member of staff died in service then their beneficiaries would be entitled to a lump sum payment , plus a monthly payment equal to the member of staffs inflation proofed salary .
as agnetha had been escorting a senior member of my staff on a secret mission to collect essential supplies cindys tee shirt she was eligible for this payment , so i handed her father a cheque for the lump sum of think of a number and double it , and explained that they would be receiving agnethas full salary every month , until the two of them eventually joined her , it was a small price for me to pay , as the only reason that agnetha had died such a horrible death was that she worked for me .
maria , if there isnt such a policy in existence for everyone else then find one .
i then had a quieter quiet word with agnethas father about charlies death ?
they had thought that their daughter had died in a traffic accident , but i hinted that that might not be the entire truth , they might just hear a different scenario , and it would be very convenient if charlie could die at tomorrows service overcome with grief .
the fbi agents were scouring the crowds , but with hundreds of mourners attending the service they were not having very much success until just after agnethas ashes had been scattered to the winds , suddenly , high above the mourners a lone figure stood on a ledge , head bowed , and in full view of everyone , and just in case the fbi agents missed him we all waved up at him .
charlie had a heads start on the agents as they panted their way up the pathway , so he was way ahead of them when he disappeared around the craggy headland , but it didnt worry the agents one little bit , they had done their homework well , this was the only path up to the viewing point at the top .
suddenly a shot rang out and they increased their pace , but when they reached the top all they found was charlies gun obviously with his fingerprints on it and blood splattered all over the edge of the shear drop into the rock strewn sea below .
they knew of course that the blood would match charles watkins perfectly , so they didnt bother to look very hard for bone fragments or gooey brain tissue , which was fortunate as they would have found that the director of the fbi himself would have considered it an unnecessary waste of tax dollars to have them analysed , if they had miraculously found any .
as david and i looked over the edge of the cliff , just idly checking that there were no empty bottles of blood lying about as one does , he quietly commented to me that it was surprising that charlie had made such a messy job of his own demise , he was normally such a fastidious person .
and such a good parachutist to boot , i added .
chapter 11 on my return to el campo life slowly settled down again , and a few weeks later i had a surprise visitor , it was inmas mother .
inma had gone solo in one of my cessna skyhawks a while ago , and now she could take passengers up for the first time , so who was her first passenger to be , her mother of course .
her mother , who had never been in an aeroplane before in her entire life , had spent the whole flight gazing in amazement at her clever daughters face .
she had always known her place in life , but when her daughter had first spoken confidently into the aircrafts microphone , and somebody had actually politely answered her it was chalky , followed by a hi mum , have a nice flight her world changed forever .
she had , up until that moment , never believed that people like them could actually fly an aeroplane all by themselves , deep down she had believed that that nice mr heslop was behind the scenes aiding her , and so as her daughter confidently taxied up to the hangar doors after the flight , and a mechanic came up and asked her daughter if he could look after the aircraft for her , her mother made a monumental decision , she would pluck up all her courage and go and thank that nice mr michaels personally .
inma was shocked this was most un motherly like , but still inma led the way into mi casa , through the front doors god forbid , and headed for marias office .
yes maria said , andrew inma , surely you call him mr michaels was in his office go straight in what , no appointment .
ten minutes later , after maria had taken a photograph of me presenting her daughter with her flying licence in the guise of a rolled up magazine , and the obligatory one with her mum in the photo as well , inma and her mother , arm in arm , were off back to their apartment in san miguel , and no they didnt require a lift thank you very much , they enjoyed walking together .
fifteen minutes later carlos rang me there had been a terrible accident on the new roundabout at the bottom of the road leading up to el campo , and it involved inma and her mother .
have you rung doc martin , i had seen her a little while ago going into her well woman clinic .
yes , and the ambulance , and the police , and one of our cameras has caught it all on disc .
david had insisted that a camera was always pointing down the entrance road , just in case .
it was always handy to have visual evidence to back you up , if there was ever a problem , but even he hadnt envisaged something like this happening , and by the time i arrived at the roundabout doc martin and several of the other doctors from the centro salud , including doctora botella were working on inma , but her mother was covered with a sheet .
the ayuntamiento town hall had recently constructed a roundabout at the bottom of our drive , as a sort of thank you for all the things that i was doing around the pueblo , but obviously the very elderly gentleman who delivered to the ferreteria hardware store had never come across it before .
he had been going too fast , and his load had not been secured properly so when he suddenly found himself running out of road he did a double swerve , the first one loosened a pile of scaffolding poles in the back , and the second one catapulted them off the lorry , and into inma and her mother .
her mother had died instantaneously , and but for doc martin and the other medicos inma would have quickly followed .
one scaffolding pole had slammed into the small of her back and another one had caught the back of her head .
she was in a mess but fortunately the cruz roja red cross helicopter was in the air , returning from another emergency , so after dropping its medics off it quickly went and topped up its tank at el campo , and then came back and landed beside the roundabout .
inma was gently loaded into the machine , and then it was swiftly on its way to the nearby hospital , along with docs martin and botella .
a few minutes later , as i sadly watched the crew carefully lift inmas mother into the back of their ambulance , a guardia civil officer started asking about next of kin details , and all eyes turned to me , and i realised that i , and all at el campo were now inmas next of kin , apparently she now had no one else .
thomas , carloss deputy stepped in and took over , his wifes mother had recently passed away so he knew the routine , and he also realised that what happened to inmas mothers earthly remains now , those important final hours , would be lost to inma , she was unconscious , and likely to be so for some considerable time , so he sorted out the guardia civil officers , and instructed the ambulance paramedics to use a local undertaker for inmas mother , and then he took out his mobile and rang his brother in law he was the pueblos foremost photographer .
a few hours later i visited the hospital where inma was , and it certainly bought back some vivid memories for me .
as i sat there with caroline , she was brought out of theatre , she was alive but still in a critical condition , and if she survived at all it was clear to the surgeons that she would never walk again , so i contacted my old team at the hospital that thought it was a hotel and gave them some very explicit instructions .
over the next few weeks it would be text book co operation between the public and private sectors , or else .
i hadnt realised it but inma was one of my founder members , and as such she was someone very special to me , we had been through a lot together but we always came out of the other side with smiles on our faces , she had that sort of effect on everyone , so i made it perfectly clear to all and sundry that inma had medical cover like no one else had ever had she was their number one priority .
two weeks later inma , although still very poorly , was now off the critical list , and her medication was slowly being reduced , just enough so that she could be told about her mother .
her friends had quickly arranged an around the clock bed watch for her , this after all was spain , but somehow she was still unaware of her mothers demise , that , apparently was going to be left to me to tell her , and i was not looking forward to it in the slightest .
it must have been how maria , caroline and i walked in , because she picked up on something and immediately started sobbing .
i took her hand and tried to break the news to her as gently as i could but she was beside herself with grief , until thomas came to my rescue .
his brother in law had , immediately after thomass phone call , started recording everything that happened to her mother on his video camera , everything that inma should have been involved in was recorded for her to watch , the preparation of her mothers body , the all night vigil at the funeral directors , and the funeral procession .
i swore to her that i had nothing to do with the turnout on her mothers final earthly journey , yes i was there , but i was swallowed up in the crowds .
san miguel del mar came to a standstill for her mother .
inma had never realised that san miguellians now held her mother in such high esteem she had definitely worked off the stigma of being a single parent .
thomass brother in law had utilised footage from el campos security discs not the gory bits , and at least two other cameramen , to professionally edit it all onto two discs , one lasting about ten minutes , the other lasting two hours .
i held inmas hand as we watched the expurgated ten minute version on a wide screen television , she of course cried all the way through it but at the end she was smiling as well , which is a very hard thing to do .
one good thing about inmas situation was that i had been there only three years before , perhaps not exactly the same but close enough to understand how she was feeling , so i sat there and let her pour out all of her grief , troubles , and worst nightmares , it had to all come out , and so i decided to be there for her , as alice and robin had been there for me .
maria and caroline aided me and the three of us spent the whole night just talking to her , and being there for her .
we watched the short video over and over again , and finally it sank into her that she really wasnt all alone , and so by breakfast time she was over the worst of her grief , and as we left her in the capable hands of one of my other maids , carla , we even got a kiss and a smile .
all that we had had during the night were cat naps and endless cups of coffee , so when i got back to mi casa it was straight to bed , but at one oclock i was woken up by my phone jangling away on the bedside table , it was vicente , and he needed to see me urgently .
it really wasnt inmas time at all as we had been consoling her last evening person or persons unknown had broken into her and her mothers apartment and totally and utterly trashed it , there was virtually nothing left in one piece , but why was vicente involved .
the police local had routinely contacted carlos as the representative of her employer , and he had contacted vicente , not because of the trashing , that really was a police matter , but because of a letter that carlos and pierre had found when they visited the scene of wonton destruction a little later on .
one of the few things that had conveniently survived was a letter from inmas mothers landlord , giving inma thirty days to vacate the apartment .
the lease was in her mothers name and there was a no right of succession clause in it .
of course vicente scrutinized the lease but it was watertight , although he still managed to put the fear of god in the landlord , he may have gotten away with this eviction , but never again , vicente arranged for a company of private investigators to go through the landlords holding like a dose of salts .
by three oclock i was up , abluted , dressed , fed and sitting at the head of my conference table , i had called an emergency meeting of the a team .
maria , david , caroline , carol , mrs blake , eddy , teddy and marcel studied the only item on the agenda inma .
now was the time for positive thinking , and by six oclock i had inmas new contract in front of me .
everyone agreed that she was genuinely wasted as a maid , and that she would definitely be more suited to the position of deputy housekeeper mrs blake suggested that , and chief purser when i was embarked on the lady s carol suggested that .
she would now qualify for a specially adapted company car caroline suggested that , and should be allocated the use of one of the senior staff suites david suggested that , or one of my apartments in san miguel i suggested that .
both the suite and apartment should be adapted for wheel chair use eddy suggested that , and that i should look into a wheelchair adaptable aircraft teddy suggested that , and that a special hamper of her favourite foods should be taken into the hospital maria suggested that , but marcel went off to assemble it .
i had not been too worried when carol had suggested that inma take on the chief pursers position on the lady s , all decks above the waterline were wheelchair friendly .
eight oclock that evening i was back in inmas room , shed had a fairly comfortable day considering the news that shed had from me the previous evening , and of course she now knew all about the apartment as the police local had been to see her , briefly , but i could see that she was building up for another teary session .
i sat down and held her hand , asked her how her day had been , and she promptly burst into tears , i seemed to be having that effect on people lately .
when i could get a word in edgeways i asked her what , apart from her mother , were the tears about .
how about being homeless and out of a job for starters she moaned , she was definitely in self pitying mode .
why are you out of a job ?
i asked .
what use is a paraplegic house maid to you she bleated out , but there was a bit of the old fire returning and she knew me well enough by now to know that i had something up my sleeve .
thats quite right i said , but i havent got one .
so youve sacked me already have you she snapped back she was definitely out of her self pitying mode now .
why on earth would i want to sack my deputy housekeeper ?
i said , and plonked an envelope in her hand .
she opened it , read the enclosed contract , and burst into tears again i really will have to work on my people skills .
we chatted about her new positions for a little while , until fortuitously a consultant came a visiting , he must have heard that i was in town .
the prognosis please i asked patient confidentiality goes out of the window when you pay the bills .
inma was making a remarkable recovery , the swelling had now gone down in her brain , but she was right , she would be a paraplegic , although with a little help from a small machine she would hopefully have normal bowel movements tmi , tmi too much information , so no little accidents .
within the next couple of weeks she should be off to my old hospital for some serious rehabilitation by helicopter of course , which would , with luck , take about three or four months .
she should then be able to return to el campo , hopefully in time for christmas , although it would still be a further few months before she would be ready to start her new roles full time , he had obviously never met inma before .
i think that i left her in a better frame of mind than when i arrived , so i made my weary way down to the entrance of the hospital , with james traipsing along behind me , to try and find russell , not that i usually had any trouble finding russell , i just had to find the nearest no parking zone .
russell seemed to appear overnight , one minute he wasnt there , the next he had always been there he had been one of pauls finds .
a year or so before he had received my fateful phone call at monastery housing association , paul had been walking through its front office and noticed that a most of the receptionists and housing officers were hanging on to their desks for grim death , it wasnt a virus , it was a tenant .
mr russell hobbs , of 25 ironside gardens had just been in to ask if there was a garage available for him to rent , not just any old garage mind you , but a very large garage , that could take his rolls royce .
russells parents had had a wicked sense of humour when they named him , and he frequently wished that they had both been put down at his birth .
following a very traumatic childhood he joined the army , but that was even worse than the school playground , so as soon as he could he left , but with a driving licence and several specialist driving courses under his belt , and quickly obtained a position as his lordships driver , and as his lordship only ever called him hobbs he was quite happy with the situation , and this carried on for many a fine year , until a new maid arrived .
his lordship took one look at her attributes and promptly had a heart attack .
in his will he left russell , sorry hobbs , the rolls , no money for its upkeep mind you , just the rolls royce .
russell had been on the local housing associations waiting list for more than enough years so they re housed him immediately , as his tied accommodation had suddenly become un tied , when his lordship expired .
he was allocated a lovely little flat in ironside gardens but the roller was the problem .
initially he kept it at the local under takers , but the rent was astronomical , so he started up a business doing weddings and then running the newlyweds to the airport , and he also picked up a few trips to posh dos , and in the beginning he did alright , but the garage rental was slowly but surely eating into his profits .
eventually , in desperation he thought monastery housing might have garages to rent , and if they do perhaps they have a large one going spare , so one afternoon , as he was in the neighbourhood , he popped in , he had nothing to lose after all .
as he left the housing associations offices the laughter followed him halfway down the street , but he was used to laughter , but when he finally got home there was a car parked outside his block of flats and a man from the association was ringing his door bell , it was paul .
he had a disused store room close to ironside gardens , if they did it up , would he like it ?
eureka !
he who laughs last , laughs longest .
all went well for a year or so but then competition and high overheads slowly put him out of business and he had to go onto housing benefit , but that didnt cover the garage rental , and one of the last things that paul got before he left for spain was a thank you very much note from the area housing officer mr hobbss garage rent was now in substantial arrears .
after paul had settled down in spain , and had a few minutes to spare , he would have a chin wag with david , and on one particular occasion he related this amusing little anecdote to him , finishing with its a pity hes having such a hard time of it , hes a very nice chap really .
apparently i then agreed to it , and he was quickly recruited as my chauffer , not just any old chauffer , but a defensive driving , aggressive driving , high speed driving , spinning the car round in its own length type of driver .
his army training was going to come in handy after all , and his roller was now in my garage gathering dust , and i wasnt even charging him any rent , more fool me , but there again i did have the bragging rights .
how many other billionaires could say that their chauffeur had his very own chauffeur driven rolls royce , even if he did have to drive it himself. ?
russ just loved my maybach 62 daimler ag , although in his opinion it was of course not quite as nice as his roller , but it was pretty close , and as we wound our way back to el campo , of course by a different route every time i left the hospital , we approached that roundabout and i noticed , in my half asleep state , a demonstration going on outside el campos gates , and it seemed to involve everyone that i employed , and their families .
as we slowly entered the throng it became obvious that it was a friendly demonstration .
word it seemed had gotten out about how i had treated inma , and somebody had wanted to shake me by the hand , and it had sort of snowballed .
i slid the sun roof back and stood up in its opening , and i felt like royalty , or even more important like a soccer star , everyone seemed to want to give me a high five as i slipped gracefully by .
when i finally arrived at the top of the drive i vacated the maybach and approached david , well he said it looks as though its official now , you can walk on water , obviously they all approved of my style of management .
i sneaked a quick glance at my rolex , it was nearly eleven oclock at night , so what do you do with a crowd this size it seemed like the five thousand , obviously you have to feed them , so i searched the crowd for a patch of white , the kitchen staff , found it , and there he was marcel .
i wondered if he would remember the training exercise that id had with him a little while ago ?
so i held up my hand for a bit of hush , and as the decibels subsided slightly i shouted marcel what time is it ?
a look of puzzlement momentarily came over his face , and then he flung his arms in the air and shouted back , in his best australian accent , its barby time .
out came the loaves , fishes , steaks , beef burgers , chicken bit and pieces and everything else that goes towards having a midnight barby , and an hour later i was stood there in my bra , panties and fish net stockings they were imprinted on the front of my apron , someone was definitely going to be out of a job maana dishing out the scran with john .
not only had i inherited topsy with three of my aircraft , i had also inherited his barbeque .
he had found a 45 gallon oil drum , cut it in half and converted it into a barbecue it was basic , but perfect , and it turned out to be much more popular than the gas barbys , the charcoal barbys , and the spit roaster that were also mass producing goodies , it might just have had something to do with all the added flavouring that had congealed on the grill over the years , then around one thirty , after i had converted the heathen masses to barbequed bananas , place whole bananas on the grill , and turn frequently .
when the skins start to bubble , split along their length with a fork .
slowly mush the insides with a tea spoon until perfect , and then pour the tipple of the consumers choice over it or insert chocolate buttons in it for the womenfolk .
serve with squirty cream , eat , and you are now ready to meet your maker , i went walkabout , first i watched natasha trying to teach a group of teenagers the cossack dance , then i joined in a sing along , in about four different languages , with one the permanent crew of the lady s , who was doing a fair to middling job at throttling a squeeze box , and then without any warning whatsoever it happened i heard a spine chilling scream , followed by an evil , satanic laugh .
this was the country that had bull fighting as family entertainment so as i rushed towards the crowded table from whence these evil sounds were emanating , my imagination was well into overdrive .
i barged my way to the front of that heaving mass of humanity , but i was too late , my worst nightmares were realised topsy had introduced uckers to the masses .
chapter 12 when i said that i had nineteen hawker hunters , i lied i am getting good at crossing my fingers i had nineteen and a quarter , and early in september , after a consolation med cruise on the lady s i stood with my pilots , ground crew and a smattering of other interested parties outside of yankee hangar .
as we all gazed on , a lorry was escorted from the main gate , and the poor driver was terrified , what ever had he done he thought .
as he pulled up topsy and a crew swept in and a crane lifted the container off the flatbed trailer and lowered it gently to the ground .
topsy then flung open the end doors and just inside we could make out the gleaming nose of a mark 6d hawker hunter .
just before my cut short caribbean cruise , i had been summoned by the civil aviation authority to caa house , kingsway , in london apparently i was a very naughty boy .
i was blithely converting a shed load of different marks of hunters to my own personal sub specification , and as all my aircraft were to have uk registration this was not allowed , not without their permission anyway , enter their grey suits .
after two days of haggling they finally created two new variants of hawker hunter , the mark 6d for the single seaters i couldnt call them f for fighter as they now had no guns , and the mark 7d for the two seaters , as all the different variants that i had collected would be de navalised and or converted back to the basic f6 and t7 specs , and as all my aircraft would have smoke generators fitted as standard we all agreed on d for display .
i always knew that we would have to have serious caa input throughout the whole process of forming the team , but this had been a bit of a surprise , but as it turned out , a rather nice surprise , to date hha have contracts to refurbish a further five aircraft to the mk 6d standard for other people including two for the raf , after mine are finished of course , and finally , just as we were about to walk out of the door the senior grey suit said oh by the way , your request to fly with live ejection seats , it has been approved , just like that .
as the nose of the gleaming mk6d slid out of its box , and into the bright mediterranean sunshine its new british racing green paint scheme glistened spookily it was actually hunter green , the same as the lady s , as brg covers a wide spectrum of colours , and the gold lines down either side gave off a lustrous sheen , but those lines finished just before the air intakes .
why , because my first aircraft had no intakes , or an engine , or wings , or even a tailplane it was a sawn off static display nose section .
it was the entire front end of an f6 , sorry mk6d , down to the last detail .
the nose undercarriage was complete , and it would go up and down , sorry retract , for the purists , but in reality the whole thing was really supported by a framework at the rear end .
i had inherited the nose section with one of my aircraft and hha had quickly realised that it could be very useful indeed .
whereas it was a bit dodgy to willy nilly drill holes through the skin of a real aeroplane for example when trial fitting the new glass cockpit , it was ok to do so on this one , any slip of the drill and a bit of poly filler soon made it as good as new .
hha also used it to proof fit all my new instrumentation and associated black boxes in the new equipment bay , where the gun packs had once been apart of course for my aircraft , that still had it installed when it arrived at their factory , complete with cannon shells , oops !
they made sure that everything was properly laid out and ventilated in the new equipment bay , and that the new access panels worked as advertised before they even touched a real aeroplane although the four gun ports , complete with sabrinas the four bulging link collectors on the aircrafts sides would remain , just to make the aircraft look mean i wonder why they call them sabrinas ? .
when the trials had been successfully concluded i had hha refurbish it to the mk6d standard , finishing it as per the other aircraft , connect all the electrical bits up to a rather large computer and voila !
i now had a flight simulator , not like the proper ones , but good enough to train up my pilots on the new glass screen cockpit , and also to teach them how to respect an ejection seat .
the bomb heads at hha had rigged up a nasty fright for anyone who forgot the correct procedure , no blood but plenty of brown stuff , although the only person that i really felt sorry for was the sign writer , i had assigned inma as its pilot , and had insisted that her full name was on the side of the fuselage , with topsy as her plane captain , hopefully it would be a nice surprise for her when she returned to el campo .
chalky also wanted his share of it to , to train up his fire crews on ejection seat safety and aircrew rescue in the event of a crash and i also wanted my share of it to as a video game , and then two days later i was off with natasha on a date , not that kind of date , she was young enough to be my daughter , it was to collect the first two modified aircraft , and they were definitely the bees knees .
as we swept in over el campo , natasha glued to my wing tip , i just knew that this was the beginning of something very special .
as the new aircraft started arriving the unmodified ones were quickly sent back to england , but hha had gained in experience and so we had the shed , full of aircraft by the 23rd of december , what a crimbo prezzy , and to make it even more special inma broke a specially prepared bottle of champers over the nose wheel of her very own quarter of an aeroplane to celebrate .
inma had the sparkle back in her eyes when she returned to el campo , but it was murder trying to stop her from working .
first off i thought that as she was getting a car then she should first have a driving license that should slow her down for a while .
it took her ten days .
then she had to choose a car , but i had forgotten that i had already done that bit after a chat with her , and it was sat waiting for her in the garage next to russs roller .
i hope she doesnt get them mixed up .
then suddenly she settled down , in between x and y hangars in the ground crew crewroom to be more precise she voluntarily took over the coffee boat , not that i complained , she made an egg sarnie to die for .
after the christmas break it was down to serious training for both the aircrew and ground crew alike .
our first public display was to be at the farnborough international air show on my birthday , the twentieth of may i dont mind what presents i get , just as long as they are expensive , if we are going to start somewhere , it might as well be at the top .
my converted bae 146 arrived in february , and it was a bit of everything .
it was a line shack to topsy , it was a briefing room to natasha , it was a passenger airliner to the ground crew , and it was an office to teddy what was it for me ?
i wondered , and why did teddy want a flying office ?
so that he could terrify the aircrew of course .
zebedee that was what we named her had airborne radar and cctv installed so that he could follow the formations around the sky , they were never very far from his beady eyes .
early in may i had another visit from hrh and his extended family , i now seemed to be the only person that could get away with entertaining royalty as though they were the next door neighbours popping in for a cup of sugar , i certainly had a lot to thank major cummings for i think .
we all had a relaxing time cruising around the greek islands on board the lady s the floating one , and inma never put a foot , sorry wheel wrong , but on the way back from the islands we stopped off at a deserted beach , not too far from el campo , and were treated to the first complete display routine of the green machines .
sally , one of the spare pilots was turning out to have the makings of a great commentator , and so she was our master mistress of ceremonies and it was a spectacular display , both of them ? .
chapter 13 my birthday comes around every year , whether i like it or not , but this year i was actually looking forward to it , it was tomorrow , and as i was idly thinking about it , i was flying over the bay of biscay with sixteen hunters and zebedee following me , and as we neared the english coast teddy orchestrated our arrival onto the display circuit .
i didnt have a lot to do as i was not a professional aerobatics pilot , but i could still hold my own in formation flying so as i approached our destination , on teddys mark , i pressed my press to transmit button .
farnborough approach , this is lady s requesting permission to fly by , and then join left hand circuit for landing .
either i would get a rollicking for not sticking to strict r t procedure , or i might just get away with it .
lady s , this is farnborough approach , you are cleared for fly by and left hand circuit to land , by the way are you on your own ?
i had got away with it , only a couple of chicks farnborough approach , will be overhead in three zero seconds out .
thirty seconds later i took the centre line down farnboroughs main runway , i was perhaps a little low but hopefully no one would notice , perhaps they would all be too occupied with the eight gleaming hawker hunters on either wing tip , and a bae 146 trying to crawl up my jet pipe .
at teddys command i just pressed my stop watch and then carried serenely on , but everyone else went ballistic .
firstly zebedee seemed to stop in mid air and then wheel around and dart for the end of the runway .
she had to disgorge the ground crew before we arrived .
topsy had paid a flying visit to farnborough a few days earlier and using a laser beam and an old fashioned tape measure he spotted our marshalling points in green paint , and then as the hand on my stopwatch reached the required number i flipped lady s on her side and pulled on a few g , we had practiced this quite a few times so i knew that sixteen hunters were now in line astern behind me , but , according to the professionals perhaps a little too close for comfort .
teddy knew the main runways width to the inch , and as i touched down to the left of the runway natasha , just behind me touched down in the centre of it , and her number two touched down just behind , and to the right of her and it was crisply repeated by the remaining fourteen aircraft , and a few thousand aviators started breathing again , and as i lead my team to the dispersal topsy had everything tickerty boo , and it all went like clockwork .
red arrows move over , there are new kids on the block .
once on the ground everything was checked and lady s was led away by the nose to her new resting place , the organisers had persuaded me to let her reside in the static park , where hopefully she would be one of the main attractions .
i only agreed to this as long as a couple of my own security people guarded her full time , and what posers they turned out to be .
they were photographed in their smart green uniforms minus their guns of course against the side of the lady s , beside nanny melva , kissing little kyle and macey , and generally beating the coldstream guards at their own game , but eventually we got the summons , would we teddy , natasha and i , please go to the control tower .
it was obviously time for slapped wrists all around .
we were shown into the air shows control centre and were introduced to all the big wigs , then finally it was the turn of the programme director , he was a funny choice to give us a bol sorry telling off .
no it wasnt a telling off , had we anything up our sleeves , as i had a short sleeved shirt on , not a lot , then he came clean .
two of the smaller teams had just pulled out , financial troubles , but worse , one of the international display teams had just been grounded .
there had been a spate of mechanical failures involving their type of aircraft and the f.a.a .
and c.a.a .
had grounded them all , could we give them some extra display time .
we had a routine , which representatives from farnborough and the c.a.a .
had seen and approved , and were expecting us to put on , but we also had something a little extra , just in case , and this was the case .
well said teddy , looking at natasha and myself , i suppose we could give you an extra ten minutes the red arrows had given him an extra thirty seconds so it was nearly kisses all round , and the next morning at aircrew briefing , my pilots caused quite a stir , they were all dressed up in their sunday best flying suits , but can you fly as well as you dress they jibed .
just you wait and see sunshine .
spot on the designated time sally took over from the display commentator , and the programme director pressed the button on his stop watch , and the display went perfectly , it was an aerial ballet , enough to make grown men weep , but there were sixteen aircraft in the air and what the crowds really wanted to see were all sixteen of them in a single formation , and it looked as though it wasnt going to happen as sally seemed to be winding up her spiel , and the programme director was starting to feel very faint as we were only on time for the original display , and then , accompanied by rapturous applause the aircraft completed their final bomb burst and disappeared , and then , just as she was about to hand over to the very worried commentator he had nothing whatsoever to commentate on , the rest of the aircraft were all on the ground she said oh !
by the way graham , you were asking me earlier what our pilots do when they are not flying , he didnt remember any such conversation but he was too much of a professional to let that worry him .
thats right sally , what do they do ?
they play cards graham .
he could see she was playing for time so he went on , and what game do they play sally ?
its a special game graham .
oh really sally , and how does it go , he now had his fingers firmly crossed behind his back and hoped this was leading somewhere .
first off they take a pack of cards , shuffle them , and discard about half of the pack , and then the rest are split evenly between them .
one player then lays a card , and the other one has to try and follow suit .
three consecutive cards and you win the trick four of a kind , or four in a row and you win the game .
this was getting boring graham thought , and then sally continued there was one particularly interesting game this morning between mr michaels and teddy , our team manager oh really said a puzzled graham .
yes said a defiant sally , first teddy laid the ace of diamonds and four hunters , in an immaculate diamond formation rose up in front of the startled spectators .
they reached an imaginary point high in the sky and then seemingly dissolved .
then mr michaels laid the two of diamonds .
and first one diamond four , and then just below it another diamond four rose into the air , just like the two of diamonds on a playing card , and as the first four reached that imaginary point in the sky they all dissolved , each going their own separate ways .
we had all seen the four of diamonds get taken earlier , sally stalled , but was the three of diamonds in the discarded half of the pack , or was it in teddys hand we all wondered ?
then teddy leaned over the table and triumphantly flung down the three of diamonds , she all but screamed .
and right on cue first one diamond four , then another , and finally a third seemed to rise from the ground in front of the crowds they now had the three of diamonds , before they again dissolved , and by now the crowd could sense that something special was about to happen , was it going to be the four of diamonds , but no sally had already said it had gone .
teddy leaned over to take the trick , sally continued , but mr michaels placed his hand over the cards , not quite he said , and ladies and gentlemen at this stage of the game you must realise who actually signs our pay cheques at the end of each month , and with a flourish he laid down the winning card and what was it you may ask ?
ladies and gentlemen it was mr andrew michaels very own sixteen of diamonds , and with that all sixteen of my aircraft rose from the ground in a perfect diamond sixteen formation .
the crowds went wild , the programme director fainted , graham was speechless , and lt eagles rn , who had been trying to get into his gazelle for the past five minutes , one foot in his aircraft and the other on the step gave up and just stared as the first of the sixteen aircraft reached that imaginary point in the sky , but the formation didnt dissolve , it curled over in a loop , and then into a barrel roll , all the time being followed by the other fifteen aircraft in perfect formation , and for a further five minutes the sixteen hunters gracefully wheeled around the skies above farnborough , as if bound together by cables , reminiscent of the black arrows in the 1950s and then after the obligatory bomb burst finale , one at a time each pilot did a low slow flypast in front of the mesmerised spectators , giving them a wave from the cockpit as sally introduced them .
in return each received a rapturous applause , not only from the crowd but from their peers as well .
then finally it was natashas turn , and as she did a perfect sixteen point hesitation roll , at about zero feet give or take , she received a standing ovation from the red arrows and every other pilot on the airfield .
finally , an exhausted sally handed the microphone back to graham , who now had some filling in of his own to do as lt eagles was only now kicking his machine into life .
well ladies and gentlemen he said how do you follow that unfortunately it was the poor lieutenant , and before you go sally , thank you for that enthralling commentary , and from everyone here at farnborough , a big thank you to mr andrew michaels and his green diamonds .
it was now going to cost me a small fortune to get all the publicity bumf changed .
the next morning at the aircrew briefing eighteen chairs were vacant in the front row , and we received a standing ovation from the remainder of the room as we made our way to them .
i also received about fifty c.v.s as i passed through the crowded room , and yet again the programme director was in a tiz woz .
as two pitt specials were taxiing in after their display yesterday , one had had a brake failure and neatly chopped the tail off of his team leader , no one was hurt but , can you please give me a few extra minutes .
how about twenty five i said , and that shut everybody up .
then i continued , how about if natasha does a solo routine , topsy , my crew chief , and natasha have worked something out , but about half of it will be on the ground perhaps she can be the final act of the show ?
although the air show was on for a week , the public were only allowed in for the final two days , the first five being reserved for big business .
as i had nothing to sell we were only doing the last two days .
sally had sorted things out with natasha and the two earlier programmes were now smoothly rolled into one , but everyone in the know really only wanted to see the final display .
good evening ladies and gentlemen its me again , and please may i introduce miss natasha shladakoff , team leader of the green diamonds .
loads of applause then nothing .
pliz , werr iz ze starter buzzon came a plaintive plea over the loud speakers .
natasha , in arabella was hiding behind a hangar close to the end of the runway , along with topsy and my bomb heads .
it took her about ten minutes , and many flash bangs and fireworks to finally get arabella started and to bounce her onto the end of the runway , only she was across it , not along it .
pliz , ziz runway iz vezy short but i go , and with that she slammed the throttle open .
no , no sally screamed you are pointing the wrong way .
after a few more bumps and grinds arabella was finally straddled the centre line , but pointing in the wrong direction .
okidoke , thaz iz bezzer , i go now .
yet again sally did her screaming bit , and then told natasha to look in her rear view mirror .
pliz , iz av no rear view mirror natasha wailed .
but all aircraft have rear view mirrors sally moaned .
no iz av never ad one she explained , and then sally had an idea .
natasha has your aircraft got a make up mirror ?
ov course , all russian pizots muzz luk bufull , and so she instructed natasha to twist it .
ooooh , iz can zee my behind , and over half the spectators had a vision .
finally , when she was lined up on the centre of the runway , and pointing in the right direction , natasha slowly pushed the throttle forward to its stop , and just as the mighty avon reached its maximum output she released the brakes , and roared off down the runway , and into the history books .
first the undercarriage came up , and then the flaps , and then arabella sank down until the bottom of her fuselage was a mere few inches above the tarmac , and every pilot knows that when you pull the nose of an aircraft up , its tail goes down and natasha had no room under her tail .
just as she seemed to be running out of runway natasha blipped the flaps and arabella leapt vertically into the air , and once there was room below her tail natasha re wrote the books on the theory of flight .
she covered all the standard manoeuvres , plus a few more in her breath taking routine , and then she came in for her finale , and cart wheeled in front of the crowd , now that was impossible .
as she taxied in i could hear all the old theory of flight books hitting the bottoms of the skips , but then , just as she was coming to a graceful halt , spot on her spot , things quickly turned pear shaped .
the crowd control barriers paid only lip service to crowd control and an ecstatic crowd surged forward , heading towards her aircraft .
fortunately the ground crews managed to stop any spectators from being sucked into natashas intakes as she frantically shut the mighty avon down , but not so a very large hat , and then the crowds were swarming all around my beautiful aircraft .
i watched the mayhem unfolding before me from the top of the v.i.p .
viewing stand , and i think i broke at least three world records myself as i hurdled down the bank of chairs , some of which still had people in them , and ran towards the flight line , which unfortunately for me was a fair distance away .
as i finally wheezed my way onto the line i was met by a grim faced topsy .
arabella needed a new donkey , and a few of the smaller aircraft blanks had been purloined by energetic souvenir hunters , but it looked as though we had gotten away quiet lightly with our first riot , but it was obvious that aircraft security was going to have to have a higher priority in the future .
as i approached arabella her tail assembly had already been slid off and two rather large hunter green with gold trim of course articulated lorries were parked one either side of her , they were our roadies .
john had realised that zebedee could not carry anything like the amount of spares that might just be needed whilst we were operating away from home , so hed had two forty foot trailers 13.6 meters actually converted into mobile store rooms and workshop , complete with their own hydraulic crane and fork lift truck .
they were easily capable of providing all the necessary support equipment that was required to enable the engine change to go speedily ahead , as well as providing the replacement engine , sorry donkey , itself .
they even had an awning that could span the working area in case of inclement weather nice one john , and most of my pilots were safely tucked up in bed by the time arabella was better , but one , by the name of marcos , was wide awake , not through excitement but because he only needed four hours sleep a night , or less .
marcos was portuguese and he had been a member of their national aerobatic team before he joined me .
doc martin had initially been worried about this strange phenomenon but after innumerable tests she agreed that that was all he needed , so he was standing by to take arabella up for a test flight .
it was pitch black by the time topsy had ground run the new engine and finished all the paperwork , but that was not a problem , as all my hunters were rated for night flying , although none had actually done it before .
fortunately marcos owned his own aircraft and regularly flew home to portugal to see his girlfriend , usually arriving after dark , so he was night flying rated , and farnborough air traffic control were flexible about allowing the test flight but only as long as he did the noisy bits well away from the airfield .
we didnt realise that he was back until he taxied onto the hard standing , apparently a hunter glides beautifully when the engine is throttled right back .
all the aircraft had had their drop tanks re fitted , and so after arabella was refuelled and a.f.d after flight inspection all my aircraft were now ready for the long flight home , so it was off to beddy byes in a nice comfortable bed for me , and i didnt have to go very far to get to it , after all zebedee was my bae 146 and i had to get some use out of her now didnt i. i had been in bed for about ten minutes when my mobile phone rang , it was marcos , there is a situation in the aircrew bar .
apparently not all the rest of my pilots were tucked up in bed .
melvyn was just about the only one of my pilots that i didnt really get along with .
he was an excellent pilot and didnt he know it but at this moment he was in the bar , and unlike the rest of the pilots that were flying tomorrow he decided to break the bottle to throttle rule no alcohol within the twenty four hour period prior to take off .
he had only had two small ones , but unfortunately as he hadnt had a serious drink since the new year they went straight to his head , so he had a couple more , and i arrived just as he was downing his last whilst he was employed by me anyway a double , down in one , and he immediately decided that attack was the best form of defence and started getting belligerent .
it turned out that he was clearly a closet sexist amongst other things he did not approve of women bosses in particular , women drivers in general , and was obviously a bad loser when he didnt get any of the prime jobs , and he thought all that effing money was wasted on me .
my , my , arent we the jealous one i thought , as i sacked him on the spot and then departed to wake up teddy and natasha to break the good news .
the briefing in zebedee the following morning was scheduled for nine oclock , for a ten oclock take off , but she was deserted , everyone was out on the line ripping the drop tanks off the aircraft , after they had first been drained of fuel .
when i had left the bar the previous night melvyn had then really gone on a bender , and just before the mod police escorted him off the airfield he had announced to all and sundry that that bunch of amateurs wont have a hope in hells chance of giving any more displays for many a month , not without me , they are not that good .
normally i wouldnt have given it a second thought , but when i went up to the control tower at eight oclock to say my goodbyes i was greeted with its a pity youve got to cancel your other displays , now that seriously pissed me off .
it was time to see if davids comment was true , could i actually walk on water ? , and the answer apparently was yes , as at ten oclock gaggles of two or three aircraft at a time took off in loose wobbly formation , and disappeared off into the distance .
it looked to those not in the know that the new kids on the block were skulking away , a very feeble departure , and if anyone had bothered to count they would have seen seventeen hunters finally disappeared off to who knows where , but my feet were still firmly on the ground , natasha had asked me pretty please , can i borrow the lady s. of course i said yes , but if you scratch her , it comes out of your pay packet , and a few minutes later i strolled casually outside zebedee , with a pair of ear defenders firmly clamped over my ears , just in time to see , hear and feel seventeen hawker hunters roar over the spectators heads .
they were way below the minimum height , and in a tight diamond sixteen and a bit formation , my lady s was the bit , with natasha trying to fly up the jet pipe of the sally , who had taken melvyns place as tail end charlie .
peter frost , my other spare pilot was also among them somewhere , but with the minimum of shuffling about there were now seventeen gleaming hunters pirouetting about the sky .
they did the full diamond sixteen routine , and just as they were doing the bomb burst natasha roared in under them and did three consecutive cartwheels along the runway , a very polite way of saying up yours melvyn .
when i paid my final final visit to the control tower it was a different atmosphere all together , it was all very upbeat , but was i going to try and beat the world record of twenty two hunters doing a loop at farnborough way back in 58 , in two years time ?
farnborough alternates annually with paris .
of course i wasnt , it had taken me all of my time to get sixteen hunters into formation , but i had all my fingers and toes crossed as i said it .
chapter 14 the flight home was a bit of an anti climax , i think we had all been running on adrenalin for so long that we just sat quietly at 35,000 feet for two and a half hours , trundling along at a steady 320 knots , and all lost in our own thoughts .
sally was flying zebedee with teddy as i had decided that peter would be covering the vacant spot created by that miscreant melvyn , and would continue to do so until the end of the season .
sally was unfortunately the victim of her own success i couldnt afford to lose her sweet dulcet tones over the loud speakers , and as i had not been waggling my throttle around trying to keep loose formation on everyone else , i had a few drops of fuel left in my tanks when we arrived at el campo , so i went off to play whilst the rest of them put on a bit of a show for those that had been left behind .
i had spotted some fair weather cumulus clouds puffy cotton wool balls floating in the sky , my absolute most favouritest clouds of all time , so i spent the next ten minutes or so flying in between , and around them , trying not to hit the walls .
i had read once that it was good for your heart to have a fright at least once a day , apparently every fright extended your life slightly , anything from nearly being hit by a bus , to saying no to the wife , so after my play time was over i was now looking forward to living to the ripe old age of two hundred and twenty five , old enough for anyone i exited the playground , throttled back and prepared to land .
there was no one else in the air by the time i was ready so i did a lazy old circuit , and was nice and relaxed as i lined myself up with the runway , and i just knew that there wasnt anywhere else in the world that i wanted to be at this moment in time .
i quickly glanced down into the office for a final check on the ps and ts pressures and temperatures and then looked up again .
in those couple of seconds a great big red blob had formed between me and the runway , and i was quickly going to be ploughing into it .
if i hit this cotton wool ball i definitely wasnt going to be flying out of the other side , as it was a propeller driven beagle 206 light twin , circa 1960s , and it had just screwed in , in front of me , to make a quick landing .
instinctively i pulled the stick back into my right kidney , kicked the rudder hard over and slammed the throttle forward , and when i finally sorted everything out , and was safely orbited el campo at a safe height , i watched the 206 race along the runway at just under flying speed .
at the end it swerved off onto the taxi track , hardly reducing its speed at all , and then with clouds of smoke billowing from its brake units it came to rest against my lovely flower bed by the main gate .
with its engines still running the pilot jumped out of the aircraft and sprinted towards the security office .
i waited with baited breath for my honed to perfection protectors to cut the running figure down in mid stride but all they did was point to the office and the pilot disappeared inside .
after much mutterings of apologies from chalky i quickly landed and taxied to y hangar , where i was met by a very nervous carlos , and as i clambered down the side of lady s i was definitely not a happy little bunny .
i threw my helmet and oxygen mask onto the back seat of his range rover and squeezed into the passenger seat , which was no mean feat in itself as i still had my bulky immersion suit on , which we all wore when flying over water .
as we made our way to the gate carlos was full of apologies , and when i asked him why his people had not shot the pilot stone dead when he had landed in my flower bed he explained that her royal highness had been a regular visitor to el campo for many years .
her majesty regularly popped in when passing by in her bright red aeroplane , that was why she had not been shot to pieces by the team on the gate today , they were all brummies so knew her well .
after all he wailed , all she wanted to do was use the loo .
on pressing carlos harder i quickly realised that forms of address for titled personage was not his strong point , so as we continued on our way i used the cars radio to contact chalky .
he had quickly found out who owned the aircraft , it was the marchioness of heston , which didnt faze me in the slightest all it meant was that there would be one less in the line of succession to the throne after i got hold of her .
first things first , i clambered into the 206s palatial cockpit , and despite what had just gone on , i immediately thought that it wasnt half bad at all for a golden oldie .
it was maybe a tad younger than my hunters , but it definitely couldnt go through the sound barrier , well not without leaving its wings behind anyhow .
after scanning the controls i finally sorted out how to stop the two rolls royce continental turbocharged engines this made it a beagle 206s , the posh one and shut them down .
second things second , i then checked my flower bed , but fortunately no plants had been harmed in the arrival of this aircraft , it just had its nose wheel resting lightly against a curb stone , so i calmed down perhaps just a smidging , and stormed off into the security office , patrolpersons shack , guard room or whatever i felt like calling it at the time , and stood fuming outside the loo door .
about five minutes later a woman dressed in a flying suit the same colour as the aircraft came out , took one look at me and disappeared back inside .
i started to get worried perhaps it was my personal hygiene .
on her second appearance she managed to touch my hand briefly which i promptly disinfected and say call me sasha before disappearing again well at least i wasnt going to have to change the names of my ship and aeroplane .
these brief appearences were repeated three more times before doctora botella arrived on the scene and disappeared inside , what a brave lady , and about twenty minutes later the ambulance arrived and whisked the two women off to the local hospital i was going to have to get a season ticket for its car park .
after topsy had liberated the undercarriage safety locks from the pilots door pocket , and finally found out where to put them by this time i was very tempted to tell him exactly where he could put them we pushed that is the royal we the miscreant aircraft around so that it pointing roughly in the direction from whence it came , and placed a couple of chocks around the nose wheel much easier than digging up curb stones .
i then clambered in and after quickly fathoming out how to re start the engines , taxied the whole thing around to a hangar with topsy sat in the back giving the royal wave to all and sundry .
it really was a very nicely put together little aeroplane , although there was definitely a very funny smell in the cockpit but being a gentleman i put it down to me having recently taken off my immersion suit .
that evening , as i sat in inmas old room , sasha explained , of course after profuse apologies for her unannounced arrival and in between continuing trips to the loo that her sister and her husband margaret and gerald lived in melilla , which is one of two autonomous spanish cities situated on the northern coast of north africa , and separated from morocco by strips of neutral land .
margaret and gerald had fallen in love with spanish morocco on their honeymoon world tour , and got no further .
both were aristocracy , but had never paid it more than lip service as they quickly settled down to live the lives of eccentric artists , in other words they were most likely lousy painters who fortunately didnt have to sell any of their paintings to eat .
over the years they and their children had become part of the melilla scene and sasha , who was the senior sister , and favourite aunt , regularly visited them .
she explained that she had always had a passion for flying she cant be all bad then hence the 206s , which shed had from new .
two or three times a year she would go sister visiting , stopping off at a small airfield just outside bilbao to refuel and el campo for a comfort stop before crossing the mediterranean .
she had found el campo by accident when her engines had started spluttering .
fortunately she was just making landfall after flying across the med from melilla and there in front of her was el campo .
it was then a disused airfield and the runways were blocked , but she skilfully put down on a taxi track .
there turned out to be water in the fuel , obviously the bowser driver at melilla airport had not been doing his job properly , but it was easily rectifiable and carlos was such a nice man , he always let me use the loo after that .
why havent i seen you here before then ?
i asked .
because fresa was in serious need of a major overhaul , but it took me three years to get it completed after two different companies went bust on me , one of them even sold fresa , and so i had to go through the courts to get her back .
why is she called fresa , i asked , knowing that i really should know the answer .
because fresa is spanish for strawberries , and strawberries are my favourite fruit .
beryl , get digging i thought , but just before i could ask the question that i had wanted to ask her , from the moment i first saw her , a young slip of a girl came in with a large entourage behind her , she was the consultant medicina digestiva tummy specialist .
sasha asked me to stay for moral support , and doctora maria asuncion saura sanchez , doctora saura sanchez for short , quickly came to the point .
the good news is that it isnt cancer .
that changed the colour of sashas face , and she grabbed my hand , obviously the c word had never crossed her mind , but it was another c word .
it looks as though it is colitis , but she had scheduled sasha in for an endoscopy tomorrow morning , just to confirm it .
surprisingly this is where i came in will there be an anaesthetist present i asked her , i was an expert on endoscopies , with and without an anaesthetist .
with doctora answered .
what is an endoscopy sasha asked , and why do i need an anaesthetist ?
dont ask i replied .
the consultant then went on to explain what colitis was surprisingly enough , something to do with the colon , what her prognosis was two to three weeks in hospital then home treatment , and a special diet .
daiquiri por favor sasha replied , i liked her style .
doctora gave her a blank look and her entourage collapsed about the room in hysterics , medicina digestiva was not normally such a fun subject , and once doctora and co vacated the premises we sat there looking at my hand , it was going a very funny colour .
i suppose i had better let it go she said .
only if you feel that it is absolutely necessary i replied , praying that she would not notice that rigor mortis was setting in , but fortunately i was sat down ! !
it had been a long time since sandra had returned to the uk .
she slackened her grip slightly , allowing a few drops of blood to squeeze by and i then plucked up the courage to ask her the question , are you married ?
no she is not came a stern reply from behind me , but if you are who i think you are , then keep trying .
enter the younger sister stage left .
margaret an exasperated sasha shouted , but i think i saw a twinkle in her eye , and finally , after introductions were over , sasha asked where her brother in law was .
trying to find a decent hotel , i left him cruising the streets in a taxi .
has he got a mobile on him i asked .
yes came the puzzled reply .
then ring him and tell him to come directly here , you can stay at el campo , and handed her my phone .
you certainly have some clout around here dont you was the first thing that gerald said to me as he entered the room , first they wanted to throw the cases out into the street , swiftly followed by yours truly , then when i mentioned your name they couldnt do enough for me , there is now an armed guard on my underpants .
i was beginning to like the whole family .
after the usual pleasantries were concluded sasha then explained to them what had happened to her since she left bilbao earlier today she was on her way down to melilla .
as she skirted madrid she started feeling uncomfortable , and by the time el campo was in sight she was almost touching cloth , as her nephew was to later quaintly put it .
she then went on to explain her spectacular arrival , and what had transpired after that , finally ending up with the prognosis , but with quite a few graphic gory interruptions by yours truly , and then with perfect timing the cavalry arrived in the very shapely shapes of four nurses , in crisp white uniforms , the back up from my hospital hotel had arrived , and yet more work for marcus .
finally , just before we left her in the capable hands of freyja , my favourite swedish nurse she always warmed her hands first ?
gerald asked her why she wasnt in a private hospital surely her medical insurance would cover it .
sasha looked at me and blushed and margaret kicked him .
it was certainly turning out to been one of those days .
chapter 15 whats wrong with me ?
i am probably the worlds most eligible bachelor , but all that i seemed to be able to do is to hang on to the new women in my life for about six months at a time .
my first foray into the love stakes following the loss of sheila , my wife , almost five years ago had been sandra , the media icon .
that had been a helter skelter ride of emotions , but in the end her calling recalled her , and now it was the turn of the aristocracy .
unfortunately the circles that sasha moved in were very unforgiving , irrespective of what i was like as a person , or what was secreted away in the bank account , it was my family tree that was far more important to them .
for the first three weeks of our fling sasha spent it in bed , not that bed , a hospital bed , but once she was on the road to recovery that sorted itself out , and we started to hit the high life although not straying too far from a loo , first my version of it and then gradually hers , but i was definitely not invited inside .
i suppose historians in years to come might indicate that i didnt try hard enough to integrate or should that be ingratiate myself into her circles , but i am a great believer that a person is what they are , not who their great uncle , third removed was , and the final straw came when sasha invited her coven over for a bridge weekend at my pad , and i was told by the head crone to pour the tea .
when i sarcastically hinted that i might actually employ other people to carry out that function , sasha absent mindedly reverted to type and snapped at me to stop making a fuss andrew , and just do it .
up until that moment i had only been having a bad hair day , but that seemed to be just a teensy weensy bit o.t.t. , and i think i handled the situation quite well considering .
i gave her and her cronies one hour to get off my property , and then i would tell the security staff that they were weapons free .
i then stormed down to the marina , untied the aquarama , clambered on board , turned the ignition keys , and as soon as the engines fired rammed the throttles to their stops .
it was a good job that there was no speed limit in my marina as it would have been exceeded by the time the aquaramas stern had cleared the boathouse .
carol eventually sent a helicopter to herd me back with my head start there was nothing in the marina that could catch up with me as bob the bosun didnt think that i had enough fuel on board to reach morocco at full chat .
by the time that i finally , and rather sheepishly , edged the aquarama surprisingly the chrysler motors seemed to have thoroughly enjoyed the abuse back into its home , two hours after its frantic departure , and david had driven me up to mi casa , there was absolutely no sign of sasha or her wiccans .
i never did enquire about what had happened after my departure plausible deniability and all that !
that was three weeks ago , and now , as i mulled it over in my mind for the enth time , a sexy young voice whispered into my shell like ear hole lady s , you are cleared to join ... ... ..
i was back in the land of the living and dropping in for a flying visit to my favourite ejrcito del aire spanish air force base in northern spain no air traffic controller had yet had the sphericals to correct my rt procedure .
for some obscure reason i was their guest of honour at some ceremony or other , followed by a spot of lunch , and then later on , yet another free dinner .
once my inner self had been fully sated then it was to be a few hours sleep in the vip quarters and then onwards and upwards to the uk for an early christmas with alice and her new husband algernon , and all went well until i pressed the undercarriage down button .
instead of three reds , followed reassuringly by a few clunks and then three greens , my finger disappeared into the bowels of the side panel , and as i looked on in mild interest at this strange occurrence , a rather sticky puddle started to form around my heals .
i didnt need to remove my oxygen mask to smell its distinctive odour it was hydraulic fluid gocha , which at that moment should have been making its way to my undercarriage jacks , not turning the cockpit floor into a paddling pool .
the hours spent playing in my quarter of a hunter , practicing emergency procedures paid off .
without really thinking i glanced down at the undercarriage indicator lights , one red light with no indication of the situation improving any time soon , and pulled the emergency down lever .
this normally blasts compressed air into the undercarriage jacks forcing the legs down , and then locking them .
i say normally because in this instance all it did was turn my new paddling pool into a jacuzzi .
i discontinued my intention to land at the present time aborted my landing and mentally went through my options , a continue my decent by courteous of martin baker eject , or b ask for help .
i opted for the latter and declared an emergency to the sexy voice , which quickly lost its sexiness and became very business like .
as i slowly orbited the airfield , and doing a couple of slow speed fly bys just for fun , a well oiled machine leapt into action .
within a few minutes a patch of the secondary runway started to turn white , and someone upstairs looked down very kindly on me .
the observers in the control tower thought that despite the one red light my undercarriage was still locked in the up position and my flaps were still in the downwind configuration 30 degrees neither fully up nor fully down , and the belly air brake was retracted .
the lady s had four empty drop tanks fitted on her wings , they had been fitted , but not filled , prior to my short ish trip to the airbase , and then maana they would have been filled for my onward journey to southampton .
somehow i dont think that this was now going to be happening not in lady s anyway but perhaps in a pine box if i got it all wrong .
finally everything on the ground was in place , and after a quick chat with teddy back at el campo , and one dummy approach , i committed myself to reconnecting with terra firma .
as all the hydraulic fluid had by now vacated its system i was flying in manual eat your heart out fly by wire jet jockeys so it took me a little while to reduce the airspeed .
lady s was in no hurry to slow down as the undercarriage was not dangling in the slipstream and the flaps were not fully down , but finally i got it sorted , and as i crossed the runway threshold , with the avon quietly ticking over behind me in flight idle i committed and closed the hp fuel cock and shut it down , perhaps it would save any foam from being sucked into the intakes , and then , when i judged that it was about that time , i eased the stick back slightly , and as her air airspeed decayed the lady s settled lower , and lower , and lower , then suddenly i lost all sensation of movement and was surrounded by white fluffy stuff .
was i about to be greeted by st peter , nope , it was by fred .
due to the drop tanks skiing on the foam my emergency landing had just become the most totally underwhelming event of the year and i just slid gracefully to a halt in a sea of foam .
fred allegedly gained her nickname for her ability to sketch the cartoon character fred flintstone , although i personally had never seen any evidence of this .
teddy reckoned that if all else failed she could always give an ailing avon the kiss of life , and david was convinced that she could effortlessly kick start a challenger tank she was a big girl , and she was one of my plane captains .
she and her team had flown in earlier in the king air 350 to tend lady ss needs whilst she was on the ground .
as i sat there watching her surging towards me , a visible bow wave forming in front of her , i metaphorically sprang into action .
i opened the cockpit hood , switched everything off and then sat perfectly still .
i really didnt want an uplifting experience by kind courtesy of martin baker .
fred hoisted herself effortlessly up the side of lady s and leaned over me , and i then experience a total eclipse , nothing unusual there though , as i said she was a big girl .
she inserted the safety pins in the rear sear of my seat and various other locations , rendering anything that could go bang safe , and then un attached or was it dis attached nope , released me from lady s. after she had lowered herself into the waist high foam i removed my mask and helmet and dutifully handed them to her , and then stood on her surcoat which she had fortuitously placed on the ejection seat seat pan , my boots were soaked in hydraulic fluid and slipped one foot over the sill and into the step on the outside of the fuselage .
i had every intention of getting my now not so shiny flying boots even dirtier , but then found myself being plucked like a feather off the side of lady s , and cradled safely in freds arms .
as i was transported gently to dry land , guess how many cameras came out of the woodwork , and where did all their images go ? , on to the front pages of every tabloid newspaper in the free world of course perhaps not an ideal way to endear me to the free press .
fred commandeered a passing fire tender and gave lady s a quick wash and brush up , and after all the foam had been removed from her fuselage she found that she was virtually un phased by the whole experience , just a couple of dented drop tanks .
once i was satisfied that there was nothing terminally wrong with the only love of my life i was transported by the base commander to the vip quarters , where sam was waiting with my change of clothes , and then it was back to business as usual , what was a wheels up landing between friends and think on the bright side , it did save wear on the brake pads .
after the presentations , march past and a lunch staring at three buttons on the front of the blouse of my sexy voiced air traffic controller and idly wondering what the breaking strain of cotton thread was , i went to the hangar where topsy had had lady s moved to .
he and half my team had arrived tout suite in zebedee , anything for an away day and a free lunch , and i expected her to be ready for an air test , wrong .
it was wishful thinking to say the least , and i was not impressed by what greeted my eyes .
lady s was swinging gently under a crane , her drop tanks and wings lying cushioned on the hangar floor a few meters away , and freds feet protruding out of the cockpit .
the ejection seat had been removed and she was apparently looking for a mod plate was it anything like a china plate ?
i asked .
after the ejection seat had been removed she had used copious reams of blue ebr elephants bum roll oversized kitchen roll to soak up the miscreant hydraulic fluid and then headed south , then west , then north , and finally east clutching a torch and bendy inspection mirror being a southpaw female definitely had its advantages .
had she been your common or garden right handed male mechanic she would have been castrated and have two hernias before she had completed half the journey .
finally she reached her objective , shone the torch at an obscure angle and looked obliquely at the mirror .
no mod plate she squeaked the port rudder peddle was trying to give her a tracheotomy .
sh t grunted topsy and stormed off .
there really must be an easier way of earning a crust thought fred .
after investing quite a few hours that evening on honing my chat up skills on the blouse , her husband came off duty and took her to the safety or their home , so i reluctantly went to check on the progress , or lack of it with lady s. did i want the bad news or the even worse news ?
early in the life of the hunter a serious fault had developed , several pilots had had a digit disappear through the same orifice that mine had , and very quickly a modification was brought out to rectify the problem mod .
01 , and this was identified on an otherwise identical undercarriage selector unit of its predecessor by a small modification history plate mod plate attached to its outer case , and stamped with zero one .
unfortunately instead of being destroyed , or returned for modification a few unmodified selector units found their way to the back of various storage shelves , or into the hands of surplus equipment suppliers , although over the years , with the aircraft still in front and second line service , this was not a problem .
if anything went wrong with a unit then trained supervisors ensured that a modified one was fitted in its place , but unfortunately when herr englbund created one airframe from his two hulks he must have had his untrained workforce replace the presumably unserviceable selector unit with one from his growing store , and unfortunately in the move to his hangar an unmodified unit must have moved from the back to the front of the shelf .
their untrained eyes hadnt noticed the lack of a modification plate , and herr englbund hadnt entered the replacement of the unit in the aircrafts log book .
there was a lot of other things going on and his usually meticulous mind had missed it , which didnt really matter did it , after all it wasnt as though it would ever fly again , oops .
on hearing what topsy had to say , john earned his pay and grounded all my hunters , and his crews worked throughout the night and found a further two unmodified units , one in the spare mk6d and the other in peters aircraft , and then it can be safely said that the excrement then impacted on the revolving ventilating machine when he rang a panic stricken ceo of hha at five oclock the following morning and asked have your teams missed any other items .
by mid day every hunter in a flyable state world wide would be grounded by the caa .
the following morning , after a bleary eyed teddy explained all this to me , i sympathetically said and your point is its not my problem how am i going to get to southampton now ? , after all i didnt want to miss my first christmas dinner of the season .
gently banging his head on the hangar wall , he pointed at a hunter green grumman g450 parked at the hanger entrance , i thought i recognised it .
chapter 16 as i eased the g450 up to its cruising altitude teddy was sound asleep in my swivel rocker .
he had hitched a lift , but left the driving to me as he required his beauty sleep before he took on hha .
bad news teddy boy i thought , it would take at least three circumnavigations of the planet to make any significant improvement in your looks , anyway the co pilots seat was already occupied by sam .
sam wasnt even certified to fly a kite , never mind a corporate jet , but fortunately i now was the g450 not a kite , but was superbly qualified to operate a steam iron .
mrs blake my housekeeper detailed nigel my major domo aka butler her husband to find me a suitable valet .
not your common or garden variety , but the very best i think it would have been easier to have found out the origin of the universe , but in the end it wasnt the horrendously long job description , or the taking up of the references , or the police checks that whittled the short list down , it was the dunker .
three highly qualified valets actually turned up at royal naval air station yeovilton , in somerset at the designated time , but one look at what the royal navys underwater escape training unit was going to do to them and two disappeared never to be seen again .
one of the clauses in the job description was that they must be prepared to accompany me when i was away from el campo , not an unreasonable request , until it was explained to them that occasionally they would be occupying the second seat in a hunter mk7d so they would have to complete all the relevant safety courses , including underwater escape training and just to sort out the men from the boys a parachute jump or two .
as i now had an abundance of drop tanks john and topsy had modified a few .
all the internal gubbins were removed , quick release hatches were installed and some were fitted out internally to carry spares and equipment , and others became wardrobes .
range permitting i could have a couple of these fitted , have all mine and my flying valets bits and bobs stuffed inside them and we would be self sufficient for a weekend or so away .
with a name like sam you would expect to meet a swarthy barrel chested northerner , but sam call her samantha on pain of death or worse was of average size , average build , had average mousy hair , and was almost invisible .
even when she was sat opposite me at her first interview i had to look twice to see her , but this was just one of her many talents .
she seemed totally innocuous and unimposing but somehow everything around her got done to perfection , she had contingency plans for every conceivable eventuality , and could second guess a loose button at a thousand paces .
when her application form had first arrived on my desk it gave me a little chuckle , i wanted a valet not a ladies maid , but unfortunately i couldnt just throw it out on gender alone equal opportunities and all that , so i expected natural wastage to take its toll as we went through the selection process , and then there was one .
she loved the dunker , it has two huge specially designed mock ups of aircraft interiors , the smaller lynx , and the larger seaking merlin helicopters passenger cabin , which were slung into a large pool , realistically simulating an aircraft ditching in water and then rolling over .
its primary purpose was to train up military aviators and their frequent flyers , but it also did a few civvies as well .
she did both of the modules half a dozen times , with the lights on and off , and then three days later she was geronimoing out of the side of an aircraft at five thousand feet .
she shrugged off the survival at sea course , happily bobbing around in a life raft in the pouring rain , but her most absolute favouritest one of all was jumping off the back of a speeding launch , clambering into a one man or woman dinghy and then being winched up into a helicopter , three times , shamelessly used my name to get her own way this was no mild mannered mouse .
she finally started valeting for me just after sasha burst onto the scene or was it onto the toilet , and initially i had misgivings about her name , i seemed to have an in built thing about the initial s , but when i showed her into marias office that first time it was love at first sight marcus was cadging a coffee from his soul mate and all the rumours about his persuasion were immediately dispelled .
to function correctly it is imperative that a large household has to have a clearly defined structure to allow for its smooth operation , or so the books say , but within days , despite what it said in their job descriptions she took mrs blake and nigel below stairs to iron out a few small inconsistencies that were starting to arise .
in no uncertain terms she explained that where i was concerned i was solely her responsibility totally and utterly .
any disagreement and i thing she would have taken them behind the bike shed to sort out the small print , although sasha didnt seem to take to her .
i dont think that she ever really believed that a few days after she had been discharged from hospital i had genuinely inadvertently exited the shower straight into sam , who was stacking a supply of warmed clean towels for us i believe in water conservation and always shower with a friend whenever possible , and to save my embarrassment she brushed aside my apologies and said i doubt if it will be the last time , then with a wry grimace she glanced down and continued perhaps it could be considered a perk of the job .
as i always finish off my showers with a blast of cold water , it wasnt going to be a very big perk .
but why hadnt i use a mk7d two seater for this trip ? , i hear you say , well i was going to be longer than just a weekend in england , so i would be needing more than a few changes of shreddies so the king air wasnt primarily freds transportation , it was sams and my underwear another perk of her job , and another small but important point to bear in mind was that if we had actually tried to cover that distance with two wardrobes slung beneath the wings we would have gotten about half way across the bay of biscay before we ran out of fuel , and started doing dinghy practice for real .
fred and her team hadnt just thumbed a lift though they would have continued on to eastleigh to look after lady s whilst she was parked there , oh what a hard life my poor overworked staff have , slumming it in a 4 star hotel over christmas .
when we touched down at eastleigh , apart from the more than usual paparazzi , alice was there to greet me , complete with a wheel chair perhaps i had slightly exaggerated my landing the previous day .
pilots the world over will tell you that if you can walk or in my case , be carried by fred away from the aircraft , it is a landing , if not its a crash .
she meticulously checked me over , and after counting all my extremities finally let me walk to their limo , but i had noticed one thing quite quickly , either the hampshire air was agreeing with her , or i was going to have to watch another nanny changing nappies euwwwwww .
alice and gerrys little cottage was situated in the beautiful and tranquil new forest .
it was in the national park just outside fordingbridge and was perfectly situated for us to visit all the rural attractions from the heavy horses to the owl sanctuary , although i must stop jumping to conclusions , sandy balls is a leisure resort and caravan site not a nudist beach .
although the primary purpose for my visit was to spend quality time with alice and gerry , i just happened to have a small thing that i had to do whilst i was in hampshire .
i had been invited to become a member of the rys , the royal yacht squadron , but unfortunately it wasnt based in the new forest , it was based at cowes on the isle of wight , so id had carol bring the lady s the floating on to southampton to take me over there .
do you have any idea how much it costs to cross the solent by ferry these days ?
i must have saved myself an absolute fortune .
the rys was founded in london in 1815 by forty two gentlemen that were interested in sea yachting ocean going yachting , and had yachts no smaller than 10 tons , but nowadays this was interpreted as a gentleman actively interested in yachting , which i was and the lady s qualified as she was seven thousand ish tonnes , and one of the perks of membership was that the lady s would from then on fly the white ensign of the royal navy instead of the red ensign red duster which was flown by the majority of uk registered vessels , although she would have to undergo a name change from then on she would be known as the rys lady s. carol collected me , along with alice , robin , their associated families and a few special guests at southampton and transported me sedately over the solent to cowes , although she could have chosen a better day to hang out the washing , the lady s was dripping with bunting flags , she was dressed overall , and as we dropped anchor adjacent to the pavilion my crew were lining the decks , and i must admit that it did bring a lump to my throat , then it was time for bob the bosun to meet me at the bottom of the boarding ladder with the aquarama how on earth did they manage to get in on the act ?
and transport me stylishly to the pavilion , this was the ultra modern shore side facility for members of the club .
i was met by members of the committee a veritable whos who of the yachting world and escorted up to the castle , but fortunately i was not going to be thrown into its dungeons , i was going to meet the admiral who just happened to be the daddy of hrh .
if he asked me for a freebee weekend at el campo for him and his missus i was going to turn round and walk straight back out .
he welcomed me to the club and formally invited me to become a member , which of course i accepted it would have been a total waste of everybodys time if i had refused , and then after signing the register it was obviously over the yard arm time somewhere in the world , as it was drinkypoos all round , along with some nibbly things whatever happened to cucumber sarnies ? , after of course first looking out of the window at the rys lady s , now resplendent in her gleaming new white ensign .
the reception following the ceremony was anything but relaxing , apart from all the demented photographers snapping away i had a veritable queue of scroungers trying to take me to one side , from the commodore wanting to borrow the lady s for the next americas cup , to the admirals offspring hrh pleading to use her i hate to see grown men grovel on his next royal visit .
someone even wanted to use her as the starting line at cowes week , but only as long as her saluting cannons worked .
i wasnt absolutely sure about that , but she sure had one hell of a mean horn , and when they finally ran out of sticky buns it was time to move back on board lady s for a formal dinner , although i must admit that i did take a quick peek out of the corner of my eye as i stepped on board , at the starboard spreader on the main mast , and watched my new burgee rise up its lanyard for the first time .
as rys lady s carved her way majestically out of the solent the next day , white ensign flapping proudly from her stern i was taking the family around the island on a day trip a royal navy minesweeper passed close by us , and spotting our ensign the captain unbidden called her crew to attention and dipped her ensign in salute .
as carol returned the courtesy i nodded over the intervening water to the captain and thought size is important .
chapter 17 on returning to el campo after my extended festive season , the first a lister that i encountered as i wandered my corridors of power was marcel , and half jokingly i left him in no doubt about turkey , not the country the feathered variety .
after at least half a dozen full christmas dinners over the preceding month if i tasted turkey again , in any form , stuffed or otherwise , before easter he would be history .
he went a funny colour , gulped and taking the bull by the horns explained that in honour of my return , the menu del dia today was a full traditional english christmas dinner with all the trimmings , and it looked as though he would be catering for a full greenhouse .
poor marcel , he just didnt understand the english sense of humour , of course i wouldnt sack him just consider it a formal warning .
i finally made it to my office and slumped into my made to measure chair , hand crafted by the same craftsmen that provided each new president of the us of a with his oval office chair , and in front of me was exactly what i expected , a purple folder .
its colour signified that its contents were not earth shattering , but it contained information that i was very interested in .
ten days before christmas chalkie had been sat in his chicken coop no you can not have a larger control tower surveying his domain when one of his phones rang , it was the one that pilots wishing to land at el compo sometime in the future initially rang , and the gentleman on the other end quickly explained that he didnt want to land at el campo he wanted to speak directly to me about a confidential matter .
normally this meant that some con artist couldnt contact me through normal channels , i had a considerable number of firewalls between me and a public telephone , so was trying to come in by the back door .
there was nothing unusual about this and chalkie had perfected his patter so that he could suss out the caller and have him or her off the line , with fleas in their ear , in less than thirty seconds , but five minutes later he still hadnt made up his mind , so he decided to pass it on upstairs although geographically it was actually downstairs .
putting him on hold he quickly bought david , who was el campos ruler over the christmas period up to speed .
he had a gentleman on hold that seemed to be genuine , and from their short conversation he seemed to be a pilot that had come across something unique .
he freely admitted that he had information to sell , but only to the right person , although he had urgent personal reasons for wanting a quick settlement .
he really didnt want to have to go to the unscrupulous end of the market , and so after making a few quick preparations the caller was transfer through to him .
david explained that i was in england on a family holiday and wasnt expected back until the new year , and had left explicit instructions not to be disturbed , unless the end of the world was nigh , although he david had full authority to act on his behalf this was the best that he could offer .
the caller made a quick decision and briefly explained that he would not divulge his name , or the company that he worked for , or the location of his find , and then asked for davids direct telephone number and a secure fax number .
once he had these he told david not to leave the fax machine unattended as he would be sending through three photographs directly , and then would , after giving him time to digest their contents , call him back , and then he then hung up just like that , and so david waited for mr aaron peters in morocco to send him the fax .
he obviously was not current in hi tec skulduggery .
a few days earlier aaron was feeling a bit lethargic as he sat at the controls of morrelecs bell 412 helicopter he had just dropped off a team of engineers at one site , and was now making his way alone to another sub station that urgently required the remainder of his cargo .
normally , for safety reasons , he would follow the line of pylons crossing the sahara desert below but because of the urgency of the situation he had decided to save time by taking a short cut .
over to his left was a spur of the anti atlas range of mountains that not only looked hostile , but in this particular area were totally impassable on foot , by camel or vehicle , but not by helicopter .
normally he would gain altitude and then fly down the least inhospitable of the passes that crossed the range , just in case he had an in flight emergency and had to set down , but as the power was out on the grid and the engineers waiting for his cargo had virtually no protection from the blazing sun he made an exception .
a quick look at his gps and he decided to make a bee line for the sub station , even though it would take him over a couple of sections of absolutely lethal terrain if he had to ditch .
he had been flying this particular 412 from new , six months ago , and it had never had so much as a bout of hic ups so he felt confident as he set out over the first section , although he was now wide awake .
as he continued on over the relatively safe central area he noticed a long flat area in front of him , so with adrenalin now pumping he eased the bell even lower for a spot of high speed low level flying , and as he skimmed a few feet above the sand he mulled over in the back of his mind that perhaps he was the first person in hundreds , if not thousands of years to be in this area , and then halfway across the plain , out of the corner of his eye he noticed something very peculiar in the side of the valley wall , a door , so he slowed and side slipped over to it , and was astonished to find a large hangar like structure set into a cut in the valley wall .
it was covered with sand and the doors were well camouflaged so unless someone was on top of it , it was totally invisible .
it looked abandoned so he decided to continue on with his supply drop but would investigate further on his way back .
half an hour later he set the 412 down in a cloud of dust , shut her down and dismounted from his trusty steed , then walked over to inspect the small door set in one of the huge hangar doors , they were definitely hangar doors , but who did they belong to ?
inspecting the large padlock securing the door he noticed a luftwaffe eagle carrying a swastika , he knew his military history , it was his hobby , and the hairs on the back of his neck rose .
he shook the lock but all that achieved was to shake out the sands of time .
it was a stout lock , in pristine condition , the arid desert conditions were not conducive to corrosion rust so it was going to take a seriously large bolt cropper to get past it , and bolt croppers were not standard equipment on a helicopter , but an emergency tool box was , when overflying such desolate terrain .
a squirt or two of wd40 and he attacked the lock with hammer , pliers and screwdrivers but all he achieved was to put a few scratches on it , so it was time to investigate the surrounding area and perhaps find another way inside .
as he came to the end of the large doors he noticed a large red stone that was totally out of place , no , it could not be as simple as this he thought as he lifted it to one side , and below it , wrapped in a greased rag was a key obviously someone had expected to come back .
wiping the key clean he returned to the lock and inserted it , and the oil had done its job as the lock was quickly lying on top of the rag in the sand , and he tentatively pushed the door open , switched on the torch from the tool kit and almost had a heart attack .
david was starting to get a tad bored when suddenly the fax machine burst into life , and as soon as the first photograph appeared it had his one hundred percent undivided attention .
it was obvious that mr. peters had only a rather old mobile phone with an inferior in built camera with him when he had entered the hangar , but the three grainy photos that the machine spewed out were clear enough .
the first one showed two fieseler fi 156 storch 2nd world war liaison aircraft , and they were in amazingly good condition .
in the second one there were three focke wulf fw 190s single seat fighters with the promise of more behind them , and the third one showed two junkers ju 87 stuka dive bombers , again in amazing condition , and again with the promise of more behind them , and david immediately became very suspicious , these photos were just too good to be true .
working on the information that he already had to hand he started a systematic search for the aircraft , and by the time mr. peters called him back david had checked out all the moroccan electricity companies and found that only one operated bell 412 helicopters , peters had let slip that he had set the 412 down .
he then checked that companies web site to find out if any of their power lines went out into the desert they had one and even indicated its route on a map .
he was in the process of downloading high definition satellite imagery of the entire run when his phone rang .
impressed ?
came the voice down the phone , and then david started to seriously interrogate him , although poor mr. peters didnt realize it .
by the end of the call david had learned among other things that he was off to the uk for the christmas holidays , and even narrowed it down further when he let slip the fens in his excitement when david tentatively agreed the sum of money that he mentioned , conditional on him not mentioning the find to anyone else .
just before he terminated the call he agreed to contact david the day after boxing day , although david had every intention of contacting him earlier , either to explain to him the error of his ways if he was wasting his time , or to impress him with his detection skills .
david had found out about the dogs leg in the power cables there were three on the map , the impassable terrain that narrowed it down to one , and two flat areas .
it then took him almost an hour to find a straight shadow where one shouldnt exist , straight lines are virtually unheard off in nature , and a further thirty seconds to find the stone that had hidden the key , the marks in the sand where the bell had set down , and a rag .
he then started to think that perhaps mr. aaron peters was not a con artist after all , and after glancing out of the window at the solitary cloud in the blue sky , he determined that the end of the world was indeed nigh , and rang andrew .
twenty four hours later david sat at his desk and studied mrs. shelly peters medical history , and he now understood the reason behind the need for a quick deal , it was to buy drugs .
shelly peters was aarons sister in law and according to the very efficient private investigator that he had put on the case his one and only love , although his brother jack had been the one that had finally turned her head .
aaron had never found anyone better than shelly so had remained single , and whenever he was in the country he lived in the granny annex attached to the side of their beautiful eighteenth century cottage .
they had all jointly owned the property and lived in peaceful co existence until jack and shelly had a tiff .
jack then went on a business trip and aaron returned home unexpectedly and comforted his one true love , and unfortunately she reciprocated .
the next morning they were mortified and agreed not to mention it again , but then two weeks later shelly was diagnosed with cancer and they were convinced that it was punishment from on high for their indiscretion .
unfortunately the cottage was situated slap bang in the middle of an area health authority that didnt have the funds for certain very expensive drugs , so quickly their joint savings started to disappear as they paid for them with their own money , and finally , in desperation , they sold shellys beloved cottage to the lowest bidder , because he assured them that they could remain there as tenants infinitum , on condition that they would be responsible for the upkeep of the property , but then unfortunately along came the floods and down went their savings again .
they were now considering council housing as they could not continue maintaining the listed building and purchase the expensive drugs that were keeping shelly alive at the same time .
as david read the comprehensive report he knew that the investigator was not a super sleuth , he was a vintage car enthusiast who had parked his mk1 cortina the ones with the round head and tail lights at the bottom of their garden , flicked a switch that disabled its engine then walked up to their front door , rang the bell and asked if he could use their phone to ring the aa .
fortunately aaron volunteered to have look at the car first and after a few minutes miraculously got the engine started , and as a sign of his appreciation the intrepid investigator offered to buy aaron a drink or three at a nearby hostelry .
two hours later aaron was almost in tears as he recited his life history , although he never did divulge where the windfall that he was hoping to receive was going to come from , just that it would go straight into the pot to provide for shelly and the cottage , he would still have to continue working in morocco .
christmas day was not a day of joy in the peters household shelly was having a bad day , and jack was just starting to make their christmas dinner spaghetti bolognese when the door bell rang .
i wonder if its father christmas he mused as he made his way to the door he was pretty close .
mr. jeffries , shellys consultant stood in the pouring rain after all it was england with five people behind him .
may we come in please ?
he pleaded , and after they had all removed their coats jack had another shock , two of them were nurses .
mr. jeffries then indicated to the distinguished looking gentleman that seemed to be in charge of the others and said , may i introduce professor walters , and then went on to explain that he was the head of the cancer care and research unit at a very prominent london hospital .
well that was his job done , he could now go back to his turkey safe in the knowledge that his hospitals scanner appeal had just exceeded its target exit mr. jeffries .
professor walters then took over and indicating to the other gentleman , this is doctor jameson , my senior registrar , and i think that the uniforms tell you what doreen and sylvia do are you aaron or jack ?
jack , what are you doing here ?
going to save your wifes life i hope , could i have a word with aaron please ?
aaron get your backside out here now ! ! !
professor walters handed aaron a letter with an old fashioned red sealing wax seal on it , and asked him if jack knew about the stukas .
professor walters hadnt a clue about any stukas and neither did jack , so he instructed aaron to open the letter in the kitchen , but first can my staff please meet shelly .
dear mr. peters , or may i call you aaron ?
david williams my director of security informs me that you have come across something incredible in your travels .
he has carried out an investigation , the details of which i will not bore you with at this time , but suffice to say we now both believe you to be the genuine article his words not mine .
as an act of good faith i have arranged for professor walters and his team as a matter of extreme urgency to take over the care of shelly , your sister in law .
he is one of the countrys most eminent cancer specialists and will from now on with all your approvals of course be treating her , not with the drugs that you have been so selflessly providing , but with the very latest ones that have only just been approved .
i assure you that this is not a short term act of kindness on my behalf , professor walters now has the funding to treat shelly with any and all drugs , medicines and techniques that become available in the future .
please pass on to your sister in law my very best wishes , and i look forward to meeting you all in the very near future .
andrew michaels aka santa claus p.s .
please find enclose an aerial photograph that may be of interest to you .
ho ho ho aaron looked at the attached photo , it was a typical intelligence photo with points of interest highlighted , stone recently moved , marks in the sand indicating that a helicopter fitted with skids bell 412 or similar had recently landed there , shadow line could indicate a building of substance deliberately camouflaged beneath it .
cloth most likely grease impregnated with imprint of a key in it .
drat , he thought that he had been so clever , but at least he knew that he had made the right decision .
jack and shelly questioned him endlessly as the nurses first inserted a cannula into her arm , and then attached an intravenous drip .
i have made a promise , but i am sure that all will be revealed soon he told them , and left it at that , then dr jameson gently removed a phial from a small cooler box that they had bought with them and quickly injected its contents into the cannula , then everything else was forgotten as all eyes turned to shelly .
an hour later i rang the peters doorbell , introduced myself and had a quick chat with each of them , as an ambulance was due in forty five minutes to transfer her to professor walters private ward .
shelly had already started to feel funny , but he assured me that in the early stages of her treatment this was a good sign , and i told her that after her stay in hospital she was more than welcome to convalesce in the sun at el campo .
jack was a babbling wreck , but aaron was full of thanks , and in total awe of david , then he invited me into the kitchen for a cuppa , and out of earshot we got down to the serious business .
david had been very busy since that first telephone call , and by midnight on the twentieth we had a plan .
the first thing to be sorted out was mrs. peters , and caroline quickly solved that problem , she roused everyone in national health service what christmas holiday ?
never heard of it threw loads of my money at the relevant cash strapped appeals and research projects and bingo sorted .
second thing was what to do about the find , secrecy was obviously paramount so the fewer people that were in the loop the better , and as aaron it was too complicated to say mr. peters which one ?
had proved that he was able to keep the secret , he was an obvious choice to be on the inside , but in what capacity ? , then i had one of my ideas , how about as my personal helicopter pilot , although i didnt actually own one .
i had often pondered as i climbed into yet another charter helicopter that it would be much easier if i had my own , at least i would know which side the entrance door was on , so , over a conference telephone link teddy , how easy is it be to buy a helicopter ?
what over christmas ?
he moaned .
what christmas i snapped down the line , and that was sorted , but what type ?
carol , who just happened to be in davids office at the time , ear wigging another of topsys sayings , solved that one one with wheels on please , skids mess up my deck something chronic , and so teddy quickly found a high specification agusta westland aw109s grand that was ready for delivery , but had no one to be delivered to .
all it needed was registering and another lick of paint ring hha i told him , they owe me a big favour .
another problem sorted .
everything was going fine but no one apart from aaron had actually seen the dusty aircraft , i didnt even know how many aircraft there actually were .
leave that with me said david , in his plausible deniability voice .
then it was down to the logistics of actually getting them out of morocco , and a rough plan quickly came together .
back to christmas day at the peters household as we sat in the kitchen , dunking out pyramids , he again thanked me most profusely , but by this time he had had time to think , and realised that the package that i had put in place for shellys long term care had not only extended her life expectancy considerably , but that the sums involved to fund such a package would far exceed the finders fee that he had agreed with david .
how can i ever re pay you ?
how about by becoming my personal rotary wing pilot when can you start ?
it took us less than thirty seconds to sort out the nitty gritty of the deal , as morrelec had an annoying little habit of permanently losing his pay cheques , it had happened three times in the past year so he thought that that should be sufficient grounds for in lieu of notice , and then i told him what he would be driving .
ooooh aint we the posh one then he said approvingly another one that had a lot to learn about me , and as there wasnt a lot that he could do apart from hold shellys hand and he quickly understood that i knew all about that as well i had a few jobs for him to do , 1 go and check on the registration and preparation of my new chopper , and remember christmas is cancelled .
2 think of a name beginning with t. 3 when you are satisfied with everything , fly it down to hha and twiddle your thumbs whilst they spray it and dont worry about the colour scheme , they know exactly what it is .
4 hire a ground crew on a monthly contract to carry out the servicing in the short term .
5 set in motion the hiring of permanent ground crew , but have a word with john first .
6 arrange for ample fuel , oils , spares and any specialist support equipment that you might need to be delivered to el campo and the lady s by a week next friday , and ditto john again .
7 fly the said machine to the isle of wight and complete a short landing on a moving ship course .
8 fly whatever its name is and your mechanics to el campo , and dont let them get any grease on the seats any questions ?
he was a quick learner and readily agreed , and then it was fond farewells and i was back into the chartered 109s grand that was parked in a field just down the road .
i thought that i might as well get a taste of what was to come , then it was back to robin and his family for my third christmas dinner with all the trimmings of the season , i wonder if david could put out a contract on bernard matthews for me ? , although as we lifted off i looked down at their cottage and thought , perhaps i should give aaron a little bonus when all the aircraft are safely out of morocco .
and finally back to the new year after i finished scanning the contents of the folder i rang carol , what time are we leaving ?
i had only just arrived home but it was quite literally a flying visit , i was off on yet another jaunt , this time to morocco .
just as soon as aaron arrives with twinkle i couldnt persuade him to choose another name it was shelleys nickname she said , he should have arrived two days ago but he is stuck in france with a volcanic rash or some such thing .
chapter 18 carol dropped anchor just above el khabta , a small village on moroccos atlantic coast , which would have surprised a lot of people as i had told everyone that would listen that we were going to gran canaria .
el khabta was as close as we could get to the hangar without fitting wheels to the lady s , so james and aaron who could speak passable berber went ashore with a pocket full of dirham and us dollars , and came back a couple of hours later with visas for all and sundry please , just fill in your names , please sir , and a permit to fly anywhere we liked , apart from the disputed territories .
fortunately the hangar was well to the north so no one seemed in the slighted bit interested in the comings and goings of an eccentric rich european who wanted to fly around their desert and mountains taking photographs of sand dunes and rocks , just as long as the price was right , although the permit to fly , issued by a local shopkeeper who assured aaron that he was the duly appointed local agent for issuing such permits , looked as though it had been hand written on the back of a receipt for a goat .
half an hour later twinkle lifted of the lady ss flight deck , with yours truly in the co pilots seat , and fred and a team of mechanics clutching some big boxes in the rear .
id had yet another full frank and meaningful with teddy , he was seriously having problems getting his head around the simple concept of pampering to my every whim , when , after having had a quiet word in topsys shell like he had given me the names of four of his mechanics that had experience in working on vintage aircraft and could also keep their cake holes shut , teddy had this quaint notion that the working up of his display team had priority when it came to manpower , so yet again i had to picturize him .
all the hunters were now fully serviceable following my little mishap , and i had actually flown lady s home , and that had been our first full , frank and meaningful , of the year , but i had a feeling in my bones that it wouldnt be our last .
john , my boss of aircraft maintenance had turned up unannounced at robins home a week before i planned to return to spain .
he was mortified that he was even there but something was upsetting him , hha had contacted him , telling him that the lady s was ready for collection even before fred had started on her journey of discovery in the cockpit , john had arranged for a hercules to transport her lady s , not fred to dorset , they had the specialists available there to repair her but when he had informed teddy , and suggested that he send a crew to prepare it so that i could fly it back , he had been most emphatic that he was to do no such thing , it was the start of the workup to the new aerobatic season and he needed every mechanic to be available to work on his aircraft , that machine would just have to wait .
john fully understood the concept of pamper and whim so after the ugly showdown with teddy he reluctantly decided to go behind his back .
to save dragging john into it i innocently rang hha and enquired after the health of the lady s. fine they said , she was ready for collection , and they were positive that they had already let my technical staff know a few days earlier .
i then rang teddy , who off handedly agreed that i might just be correct , but could i ring him back in a few hours as he was in zebedee busy getting the pilots back into the saddle after their holiday , and almost hung up on me .
the pilots being put through the mill were then treated to ten minutes of silence as i read him the riot act , or rather my version of it .
he was my head of aviation services , and as such i was without hesitation his number one priority , he tried to interrupt me at that point big mistake , and thirty minutes later fred and her team lifted off the runway in the back of the g450 he could finish breaking in the pilots maana .
as we flew deeper into morocco the terrain started to get very sandy , and then hilly , until finally we came to that lethal gash .
aaron had not exaggerated , and thankfully he had the controls , as i kept my eyes firmly closed until we were safely over it , and then we headed towards the plain .
as we circled around , the hangar came into view , and aaron was mortified , outside the supposedly abandoned hangar were some tents and a land rover , and he quickly skidded to the hover .
as we sat there three figures came out of the door , two with rifles cradled in their arms and one in a hawaiian shirt and shorts , and they stood silently watching us , the situation had all the makings of a mexican standoff .
ok i fearlessly said lets taxi over and see what we have here then , so he reluctantly lowered the undercarriage and gingerly eased twinkle over to just in front of the men , and set her down , was this going to be his shortest period of employment ever , he nervously thought .
behind us the passenger door flew open and fred was down the steps like a racing greyhound , and she covered the ground between us and the figure in the brightly colored shirt in milli seconds , removed the tea towel covering his face and started kissing him , now that did surprise me , i didnt realize that fred and topsy were an item .
life was looking pretty good to topsy , he had a job to die for , a blossoming relationship with fred , was obviously in mr. michaels inner sanctum as he knew all about morocco , in fact the only blot on his landscape was something that david had just said they david , pierre and himself would most likely be dropping in to have a recce in four days time , somehow he didnt think it was anything like dropping in to see aunty maude for a cuppa on the way back from margate .
earlier that morning pierre had dropped in to pick up his passport , which was now never very far from his person after he had picked up an on the spot fine for not having it on him at a guardia civil checkpoint , which had then been doubled as he was brassic , and the officer had to escort him to the cash point to pay it , and now it lay back on his desk .
i wonder what he needed it for ?
he mused , and opened it up and promptly had a flash forward at precisely this time in four days time he would be stepping off the brow of the ferry from almeria in spain onto terra firma an nador in morocco , it must be true , the visa and entry stamps into morocco were already in his passport although the ink was still wet , and unbelievably the flash forward turned out to be almost spot on the only difference was in the mode of transport .
david knew somebody , who knew somebody that knew how to contact the operators of a couple of c130 hercules transport aircraft that specialized in doing peculiar things for civilian aircraft anyway , and now , at the appointed time and date topsy very reluctantly found himself standing on the edge of the loading ramp of one of the hercules , although it was not one small step onto moroccan soil , it was many thousands of feet , the aircraft in question was flying at eight thousand feet and he wasnt holding on to anything , but apparently he was perfectly safe though david was making sure of that , he had topsy clipped to his stomach .
then david leaned forward and topsy thought that the end of his world was nigh .
eventually , over his helmet intercom david persuaded him to open his eyes briefly , and he found himself looked at a grinning pierre a few feet away .
they were all free falling towards the ground at an alarming rate so he decided to close his eyes again , then suddenly david opened the parachute of their tandem rig and a few moments later he gently touched them down a few feet from a palletized land rover , and then pierre followed suite , a few feet from them topsy was still not into metrification .
about half an hour earlier during their flight from gran canaria to mauritania one of the planes had mysteriously lost cabin pressurization so had to descend to below ten thousand feet and unfortunately off the rather basic air traffic control radar screen covering that area , and the other one of course had to keep in company for safety reasons , and as david detached him , the aircraft that they had only recently vacated came in low , very low , and out of its open loading ramp came a parachute , attached to yet more pallets which all came safely to a standstill about twenty meters away .
topsy was convinced that its wingtip had passed over his head , and then both aircraft continued on their way to mauritania , nobody in morocco any the wiser as to their where a bouts .
as he shut the engines down i explained to aaron about plausible deniability , and that for the past week or so topsy , david and pierre had been pottering about in the hangar .
along with the land rover , on its own special air drop pallet , david and his team had sufficient food and liquids of various kinds on the remaining pallets to sustain them for at least a month in case of any unforeseen circumstances , as well as a satellite communication system , portable generators , floodlights , tents with portable air con of course , fuel , video and still cameras , a small steam roller , and a few luxuries to make their stay more comfortable , although i hadnt a clue where the rifles had come from .
why on earth did they need a steam roller i thought ?
it was actually diesel driven , to compact the sand and iron our any bumps on the landing strip to be , to ensure that it would be firm enough to take the hercules at a later date .
when the blades finally came to a halt i exited the helicopter and went to look inside the hangar .
topsy had rigged the floodlights so it would give me a good first impression , and what an impression it was , i had seen all the photos , and even a video , but it did not prepared me for what met my eyes .
chapter 19 oberstleutnant lieutenant colonel fritz von beneckendorf of the luftwaffe sat in his office on the outskirts of casablanca followed the to ings and fro ings of montgomery and field marshal rommel an uncle of his , many times removed in egypt and libya , and decided that perhaps it was about time to prepare for a worst case scenario .
he had been tasked with forming an anti tank unit that would decimate the dreaded tanks of the british eighth army if they ever managed to get as far as morocco , but nobody took him seriously until uncle erwin took a day off from his war in libya and popped in for his birthday party .
suddenly he had clout and lots of it .
first intelligence found the perfect site for his marauder unit , if the dumkoff british ever made it this far , but there was a small , almost insignificant problem , it was inaccessible by road , so commandeering every engineering unit that he could lay his hands on he tasked them with building him one .
the whole project was a masterpiece of german engineering and ingenuity , and by the time it was completed a new road had been blasted up the long evil looking canyon , and a superbly constructed and camouflaged hangar had been built on the plain at the end of it , although the project did consume vast resources that were urgently required elsewhere , a minor point .
he decided that his unit would have the best equipment available so as factories in the third reich slaved away to provide him with the latest anti tank aircraft , he and his growing band of technicians scoured every nook and cranny to equip the clandestine base , and then finally all he needed were the aircraft , and aviation fuel of course , and after dropping his uncles name a few times he was promised that they would be arriving soon .
finally the big day arrived , and his aircraft , which had been on one of the last freighters to arrive in morocco , circled overhead , and one by one they landed , although the last two nearly didnt make it , the mechanics at the assembly unit didnt have a lot of fuel to spare , just enough to get them to their new unit .
as the mechanics towed each aircraft inside the now bustling hangar herr oberstleutnant felt proud of what he had achieved on behalf of his beloved fhrer , the eighth of november 1942 would be a day for him to remember with pride , but there was still that small problem of the fuel .
he made his way to the radio room to personally expedite its speedy arrival , but unfortunately the duty feldwebel sergeant was having problems of his own .
apparently the british and americans had not read oberstleutnant fritz von beneckendorfs paper on how the war in northwest africa was to be conducted , so they had devised a plan of their own , and entitled it operation torch , commencement date 8 11 42 , and it was quickly pointed out to him , by a very junior officer that unless he had some flyable operational aircraft then shut up and stop cluttering up the airwaves .
four days later he finally arranged for the last of a fuel dumps supply of fuel to be transported to him , in the last remaining tankers , rather than let it be blown up before the approaching americans arrived , and the convoy commander agreed to rendezvous at the concealed entrance to the road leading up to his airfield , but how would he find the concealed entrance ?
that was easy , one of his storchs would be circling it , and then drop him further instructions on how to negotiate the twisting road .
the next day all the remaining dregs of fuel were drained out of the other aircraft , and transferred into leutnant gunther angerns fieseler fi 156 storch c3 , and he set off to meet up with the tankers at the appointed time with almost half a tank of fuel .
this should have been more than sufficient for the task in hand , but unfortunately the convoy was a little late , so he had to orbit around for a while , but finally a dust storm signified the arrival of the tankers .
as he started his approach run to drop the instructions a flight of grumman f4f wildcats from an escort carrier patrolling off shore beat him to it , and within a few minutes any chance of his units aircraft joining in this mans war went up in ten columns of smoke .
once the aircraft departed to their carrier to re fuel and re arm he circled the funeral pyres but saw no sign of life , which was just as well as he had no intention of landing on the shifting sands below , and then an idea started to form in the back of his mind .
did he have enough fuel to make it to civilisation , british or american it didnt matter , just as long as he could see out the remainder of the war in the comfort of an allied pow camp ?
then something else formed in the back of his mind , the business end of a luger 'parabellum ' 9mm pistol , he had forgotten all about the ss sturmscharfhrer sergeant major sat quietly in the back , just waiting for a situation like this to arise .
as he glided into land , the argus as 10 starved of fuel , he tried to get as close to the hangar door as possible , it would save the mechanics having to tow it halfway across the sandy plain , just to put it alongside the other storch , the six junkers ju 87d stuka dive bombers and eight focke wulf fw 190 a 4 trop fighters both the latter types were fitted with two 37mm anti tank cannons apiece that were already in there , but now had nowhere to go .
chapter 20 david had found out the history of the unit from the personal diary of oberstleutnant von beneckendorf maria had interpreted the down loaded pages that he must have accidently left behind in his desk draw , along with his fountain pen and a photograph of presumably his beautiful wife and young children , in the rush to get back to civilisation , although it seemed not to have been that much of a rush .
the oberstleutnant knew that his fhrer had a master plan , so he had all the aircraft placed in long term storage before they departed .
the aircraft were jacked up , batteries removed and all the systems drained .
the ammunition from all the under wing 37mm anti tank cannon and the 20mm wing cannons were removed , and then every orifice on each aircraft was carefully sealed .
the engineering officer then concocted a preservative that was liberally applied to all their exterior skins , and i thought , as i stared in amazement , he should definitely have patented it , it worked spectacularly .
i realized that all the leather and rubber would be perished , and the fabric covering of the storchs would be brittle , but that was about all , i guessed that it wouldnt take much to get them all in the air again .
as i slowly walked around the hangar i realised that i had stepped back into history , everything was as if the crews had just gone down to the local for quick pint , or to visit the mary celeste , and not only had the aircraft been prepared for their next masters but also the offices , accommodation , kitchen and stores it was obvious that the last thing that herr oberstleutnant had done before he locked the door and placed the key under the stone was carry out an inspection .
everything was tidy , there wasnt even any rubbish in the bins , and even the dust was not especially thick , apparently after the aircraft had been dust proofed so had the hangar , and even the small personnel door had been sealed after it had been closed for the last time , but what had happened to everyone , surely someone would have come back after the war to investigate ?
david found the answer to that question on day three of their adventure it had puzzled them all so when maria translated the diary he had scoured the satellite imagery and found the road through the canyon .
it was obvious to him that the convoy , with all the personnel on board , had blown up sections of the road behind them , dissuading any inquisitive bedouin from going any further , and at the entrance to the canyon he found the road , or what was left of it .
they had obviously used the last of their explosives to induce a rock slide , and then driven off into the desert , but unfortunately not very far , but that was for day four , and an internet search .
lieutenant commander dabrowski usn was leading half his squadron of f4f wildcats on a sweep along the coastal plain and decided to re visit the spot where one of his flights had gotten lucky a week earlier , who knows there might be more tankers about , and as the burned out tankers came into view , just approaching them was a convoy of trucks crammed full off personnel , although they didnt look like soldiers , so he sent lieutenant jg buster gutt to investigate .
it wasnt uncommon for such convoys , especially with vichy french or italians on board , on seeing an allied plane to disembark and start waving anything white in the air , and as jug slowed and started to approach the lorries this started to happen , until david presumed the waffen ss detachment soldiers , spread throughout the convoy , opened up on him with heavy machineguns .
although the ss detachment was attached to the unit more to keep an eye on the airmen rather than protect them , jug and his aircraft were shredded , and it tumbled out of the sky , but it had hardly come to rest before lt cmdr .
dabrowski and the other fourteen aircraft went line astern and swept in to take revenge , and what followed wouldnt go down in the annuls of history as a glorious action , it was all but embarrassingly forgotten about as jug had been a popular pilot on board the escort carrier , and had only days before found out that he was now a father .
the f4fs swept in , one after another and hosed the convoy , and anything or anyone that moved , with their four .50 calibre brownings , and long after returning fire had petered out they continued circling and sweeping in again and again , until all four hundred and fifty rounds from each gun had been expended , and there was no sign of life .
in a final fit of remorse for sending jug to his death , dab slid his hood back and flew slowly down the burning vehicles , emptying his colt .45 service automatic into the carnage as he went .
even if anybody was unfortunate enough to have survived below , he knew that they wouldnt get far in this heat , and he hoped that it would be getting even hotter .
after david had recited his research i realised that this wasnt just a jolly to collect some old war birds , people had lived and died here in this desolate part of morocco , so we all sat down in their air conditioned tent and saluted fallen comrades , and consumed a significant part of the away teams little extras with the exception of aaron of course .
add to the list of places to visit the german embassy and their version of the war graves commission .
in the past week , whilst david and pierre came to terms with the steam roller and itemizing and photographing every scrap of paper and piece of equipment , topsy had settled down to some aircraft mechanicary and had removed both sets of the storchs wheels , plus two sets of fw 190 and stuka wheels .
whilst we could not yet remove any of the artefacts that we found , i stretched my luck a bit and hoped that no one would mind if i borrowed some , as long as i returned them in better condition .
i had scoured the permit to fly on the back of that receipt for a goat and nowhere did it actually state the type of aircraft that i was permitted to use , so if the americans could land and launch a c130 hercules 21 times on and off the uss forrestal , then so could i , off the lady s , and an hour later one taxied up beside twinkle , to disgorged yet more comforts of home , and specialist equipment that topsy had requested .
after almost being knocked over by michael as he climbed the ramp , topsy stowed the wheels safely in the hold , to be transported back to el campo where the next job for michael would be to find tyres that would fit them .
at this stage in wasnt necessary for michael to have the correct aircraft tyres , anything would do , just as long as my new finds could be pushed into the back of a hercules but who was michael ?
chapter 21 just before christmas even as i stuffed yet another mouthful of stuffing down my throat i knew that if this was not a hoax i would need a list , whenever we made preparations to go away sheila always had to have her lists , and for our larger adventures she even had a list of the various lists that were in use , so i gradually got used to them and now i was starting one of my own .
i knew that this find would be destined for the front pages of most national and international papers so i had to think carefully before it was made public .
i could just imagine a hoard of souvenir hunters converging on the hangar and prizing off bits of the aircraft with a screwdriver , causing irreparable damage to its surrounding area , so what i wanted , what i really really wanted was a news blackout until i had everything tucked safely away in a controllable area .
my hunters were using x and y hangars , so how about zulu hangar , it was the largest of all my hangars , in its heyday it had been an aircraft storage facility , but now it was empty , and it would be perfect so over the christmas break david and topsy purloined it .
topsy had a smidging of historic aircraft experience , he had once sat in the cockpit of a spitfire , but he had become a royal navy air mechanic after it had joined the jet age with a vengeance , all front , and most second line aircraft had jet propulsion , although the gannets did still have propellers , so i needed someone on board that knew about that era .
as he grew up michael leigh was not one for charging around shooting indians or germans , he was quite content to build his kiel craft spitfire or assemble his airfix me 109 , he didnt mind what aircraft type it was , just as long as it had a propeller or 2 , or 3 , or 4 on it .
on leaving technical college he only sent out one request for employment , he wanted an apprenticeship at the local aircraft maintenance and restoration company at nearby duckford aerodrome , and he was successful , and although he had to learn all the latest maintenance techniques , all he really wanted to do was to apply them to the aircraft in the restoration division .
he had been with the company for fifteen years when it decided to specialise in corporate jet maintenance and put its small restoration division up for sale .
michael persuaded his bank manager that it was a sound gamble , sorry investment , and so overnight he went from deputy manager of airframe restoration to boss , and it turned out that the bank manager had a shrewd eye for business as over the years his company grew , gaining a reputation second to none in the restoration business , so it was no surprise that on christmas eve , before i had even seen my aircraft or even met aaron , i was standing beside him in front of one of his companies hangars , waiting for david and topsy to arrive .
the complex was of course closed for the holiday period but maria had successfully conveyed to him that it might not be just a flight of fancy on my part for wanting to as a matter of urgency have a conducted tour by the ceo , and he did the tour bit to perfection .
an hour later , after he had explained the on going work on an ex spanish air force hispano buchon basically a messerschmitt bf109g with a rolls royce merlin engine i asked him if he had ever worked on any other german ww2 era aircraft , in particular fw 190s or stukas .
he explained that they had just done some work on a new build fw 190 but had never worked on a stuka , why ?
i had decided as we walked around that i could work with this man and so david , right on cue , removed the three grainy photographs from his briefcase and handed them to me , and i placed them down on a nearby bench .
three hours later david , topsy and michael lifted off in my g450 and headed towards el campo , michael with his unopened christmas presents in his suitcase .
back to the future present michael was the first one down the ramp of that first fixed wing aircraft to land at the airfield in almost seventy years , and niftily side stepping topsy and his wheels he made a bee line for the hangar , it took them two days to get him out again .
the second herci bird to arrive delivered special ground handling equipment , egg boxes , padded poles , loads of plastic boxes with locks on , and marcus he now had another title keeper of the keys .
there were too many things that could go missing around the hangar and stores so michael suggested that everything should be transported securely to zulu hangar , but it would be a mammoth logistical task to record and pack everything so it was marcus grab your sandals and a biro , but why did i need egg boxes ?
these boxes werent for eggs , they were for aircraft wings and other delicate parts , and were very heavy long thin boxes , divided internally up into squares .
they were well padded on the top , and equally well padded poles could be slid into any of the squares , one either side of say a wing , supporting it in the upright position .
as each wing would require two boxes and four poles i would need an awful lot of boxes , so along with them came a fork lift truck , marcus would soon be transport co ordinator as well .
as that second hercules lifted off in a cloud of sand , transporting a reluctant michael back to mi casa for a change of undies i looked around the site .
a small tented city was starting to form to the side of the hangar , and there were an awful lot of people sworn to secrecy starting to appear , including some bomb disposal experts , it was really about time for me to extract my digit and get to work before they all died of boredom , so it was into twinkle , back to up until now a very redundant lady s , and then up anchor and we all sailed merrily up the coast .
we passed casablanca and turned smartly into the mouth of the river bou regreg where rabat , the capital of morocco was situated , but not too far , apparently there was a silt problem , and the first person to come up the ladder was sad , one of vicentes partners .
sad was born in morocco , but at the age of twelve his parents had taken him from rabat to spain , where he quickly picked up spanish and had no trouble moving into further education , eventually qualifying as an abagado solicitor .
vicente had spotted a rising star , so sad was now back in rabat negotiating , on my behalf , the removal of the not really very valuable antiquities , and aparantly i had an appointment with the minister of antiquities and all things old the following morning .
aaron eased a highly polished twinkle , complete with its real gold stripes down the sides they appreciated little touches like that , onto the front lawn of the ministry , and sad and i were escorted inside to meet the kings close relative .
sad had been doing sterling work negotiating the terms of the transfer of the not really very valuable but we might as well take them off your hands whilst we are here antiquities for a few days , but now they had reached the delicate stage of the proceeding money had been mentioned .
although no representative of the minister had actually visited the site they instinctively knew despite what sad said the value of such a find , so as negotiations progressed from dirham , through euros and onto us dollars it was time for a personal appearance , and after the usual preliminaries we all sat around a beautiful table , and scared to death to blink , just in case it cost me a small fortune .
the minister had in front of him a formidable looking form , at least twenty pages thick , and despite all the negotiations so far only the front page had been filled it , my name , address , telephone number and bank details , and he sat facing me with a stony face , it was time for me to pull something astounding out of the bag , so i reached into the bag and removed a booklet and a form , and with an equally stony face i slid the booklet , entitled how to open your very own numbered bank account in switzerland , and a completed application form in front of him .
he glanced contemptuously down at them he already had two , and then slid a very small piece of paper of his own over to me , which had a very large number written on it .
i glanced down at it , and gave an almost imperceptible nod .
right he said , and signed the last page of the said formidable form .
if you wouldnt mind filling the rest of it in for me at your leisure i would be much obliged .
i just hate form filling , and passed it over to me , i hope aaron hadnt switched the engines off yet .
in the time that it took aaron to fly me to the airport , to reconnect me with my gulfstream , the first hercules had already lifted off from el campo .
when all the aircraft and artefacts were safely in zulu hangar i started to relax , but michael then got out his list and started to get busy .
early on in our negotiations we had agreed that all restoration work on the actual airframes with the exception of one storch would be done at el campo , it made sense , i had the security and space as well as the money to get the best specialists in , and at the top of the said list was have everything checked by the experts so anyone with an antiques or vintage aircraft related job description descended on el campo , there were experts not only interested in the aircraft but also the flying clothing , technical books , the weaponry and just about everything else that had been flown over there was even someone over the moon over herr von beneckendorfs desk , what a sad life some people have , although not all boxes with locks on went to the hangar .
r.h.i.p .
rank has its privileges two boxes , one full of aviators sunglasses and the other with aircrew chronometers watches to the uninitiated inside found their way into my safe , they would make ideal thank you presents for aaron , david , pierre , topsy , marcus and michael when the time came , plus me and a few honoured visitors .
second on his list was to let all the aviation magazines have a heyday , although under the watchful eye of my new curator aka marcus .
third was to set up a production line to try and make all the aircraft airworthy , even ones that were earmarked for aircraft museums , and to round up a team of specialist engineers to supervise the volunteers that were coming out of the woodwork .
almost all restoration schemes rely heavily on enthusiastic amateurs , and requests to help at their own expense were flowing in , so michael and i devised a cunning plan .
each aircraft would have a number of proven amateurs assigned to it , and as it approached the beginning of its restoration they would be flown out , accommodated and fed by yours truly , until their aircraft had successfully test flown , then they would be flown home again perhaps after being strip searched , that way as many serious enthusiasts as possible would be able to experience the pleasure of a successful restoration , yet another job for my accommodation officer aka marcus one day i will have to sit down and write him a proper job description , i had inherited him along with el campo and he sort of just did things for everyone .
there was no rush to start the restorations so the week after easter was pencilled in , although michael estimated that if everything went according to plan the whole project would take a year to eighteen months , give or take , which led to item number four , but before that i first had to fend off a load of my new best friends .
as i may have occasionally mentioned before , there is no such thing as a free lunch , so my freebee lunches started to come home to roost .
i started to have visits from some of my new best friends forever that were just going to be in the area , so could we pop in for a quick decco , and one of the first was a world class collector of vintage aircraft , only he kept them all to himself , so after i had given him the conducted tour of zulu , he gave me his shopping list , ill have one of those a ju 87 , two of those fw 190s , 6 of those flying suites etc , but when i pointed out to him that i would only be loaning them to people , organisations or museums that would be flying or exhibiting them to the wider general public , not to private collectors , he did what he usually did in those stiuations , he offered me silly money .
when i politely refused he doubled it , and it was only after i pointed out to him that i was not interested in his dollars , after all i have a lot more than you do he got the message and stormed off i guess there will be no more free lunches from that neck of the woods .
chapter 22 normally the press treat me with a modicum of respect as i never actively seek publicity , although one particular tabloid regularly pushed its luck , but finally in february it must have been a quiet news month they overstepped the mark big time .
they had recently run several articles saying that i was hording the treasure trove from the desert although i hadnt told anybody which desert all to myself , even though it was now general knowledge that i would be loaning almost everything , in almost all cases permanently , out to deserving causes .
for some reason mr morris , the owner of the daily comet , and the father of one of first people to receive an on your bike sunshine they are not going to private collectors letter from maria , seemed to have selective amnesia on that minor point , even after my english solicitors had pointed this out to him .
his son was the type of collector who collected anything , just as long as it was rare , and horded it away he couldnt even fly , and the following day there was a front page article about alice and her brief foray into the alternative lifestyle , obviously they had contacted burt at hm prison holloway , and the day after that there was a piece about my estranged son selling me his kidney just to get his hands on some of my money .
my solicitors were furiously seeking an injunction when i received a phone call from a distraught emma , my daughter in law .
whilst trying to obtain some follow up photos of her and mark my grandson at thorpe park , a staff photographer from the daily comet had been slightly over enthusiastic in trying to get a legitimate close up according to a half hearted apology from mr morriss p.a .
and smashed his camera into marks face , at the same time pressing the trigger .
mark was now in hospital , blind , with a broken nose and requiring a large number of stitches in his small face he was only just four years old .
war had now been declared .
within an hour the injunction had been served .
if mr morris , the comet , or any publications that he may or may not own now , in the past , or in the future , even printed so much as mine , or a family members name , let alone a picture , then he would go to prison and they would throw away the key he had recently done an expos on the judiciary , and even as he sat at his desk reading it i was in lady s the flying one hot footing it to england , so fast that i thought that the avon was running on fumes as i came into land , and was then , still in my immersion suit , whisked quickly away by the fastest helicopter available to marks bedside .
as i had charged through the skies , high above the bay of biscay i had devised a plan , but as i sat there by his bedside , it metaphorically went out of the window .
he had required over thirty stitches , and the surgeons reckoned that even with cosmetic surgery he would still be scarred for the rest of his life .
he was permanently blind in one eye , and even with further operations he would only ever have partial sight in the other .
the war had now escalated .
less than a week later , as he sat quietly at home mr morris received , via the hand of a very nondescript courier , a very derisory offer for his newspaper group , a bankers draft for the said amount , and a yellow folder .
in it was material that would not only ensure that he would go to prison for a long time , but that he would also be spending it in solitary confinement for his own safety .
on the front of folder was a post it written in my own hand promising him that if he told absolutely no one of our deal , then i would not divulge its contents to anyone and as anyone that knows me knows , i never break a promise although i didnt mention anything about the red folder .
an hour later , after he had left his home and his wife for the last time , transferred the bankers draft into an off shore account and went off to find an aeroplane heading in the general direction of the bahamas , i was stood in front of the comets head office , after first handing an envelope containing the red file to another nondescript courier .
this one was addressed to a senior member of her majesties constabulary , who had been anonymously tipped off to expect it , and after removing the surgical rubber gloves that i had been wearing i entered the grandiose portals , wondering if mr morris would actually make the aircraft .
first off the security guards recognised me and made tracks to stop me , but a solicitor bearing documents proving that i was now their boss got to them first , and they quickly joined in the procession behind me , they didnt want to miss a second of the hoped for ensuing carnage.i had chosen the timing of my arrival to perfection , ms wonting and her editorial team were putting the final touches to that evenings edition as i walked in .
my tame solicitor , lord something or other , who was running point for me handed out more copies of the document , and i slowly worked down a list of names that i had in my hand , taking great pleasure in firing each one of them on the spot , and informing them that if i had anything to do with it then their careers in journalism were over permanently , but there were two other persons in the room that were not on my list , but i calculated that any unfair dismissal claim in the future would be more than worth it , just for the short term gratification that i would gain from firing them as well , so i did .
one editor stood and decided that he wanted to argue the toss with me , but david carelessly let his jacket fall open , and that put an end to any dissent .
each person was then searched for any comet property , mobile phones , files , computers , safe keys , pencils , dust etc , and then escorted out of the building , then i was off , i was on a roll and wanted to get to the remainder of the list before word got out .
i entered the staff reporters photographers office , and two of the gentlemen took one look at me and tried to bolt for it , but david and a couple of the colonels finest persuaded them otherwise , and then after i repeated my jovial standard greeting to both of them , plus a few others in the room for good measure , david took both of them to one side .
if they knew what was good for them they would quickly find a rock and crawl under it , never to feel the suns rays again , before the boys in blue arrived .
unfortunately , in their haste to find a rock , they both fell down the stairs and were arrested in the ambulance mark idolised david , and the feeling was reciprocated .
after that i had two further small jobs to do , first i went back downstairs to the entrance hall , and taped a sheet of a4 paper containing a brief statement to one of the glass doors .
basically it said that even though the vast majority of employees of the comet were not involved in the decision making process , they all willingly worked for the paper i had nearly put newspaper so as of this moment the comet , and all of its subsidiaries were defunct , and all of their employees made redundant , and then i stepped outside for a press conference .
as i had been enjoying myself inside , a few selected tv news departments and newspaper editors had been notified that i would be making a brief statement that might be of interest , in a few minutes time , and a surprisingly large number of their staff , with cameras and notebooks at the ready were there to greet me , and surprise , surprise , in the front row stood sandra , live on air , we may no longer be an item but we were still friends .
as i watched the late employees starting to stream out of the offices bad news always travels fast , the security staff confiscated any files , discs or laptop that made their way to the doors i let them keep the pencils and dust , i knew that this scene was being repeated at the remainder of the comets subsidiaries , the security guards there being ably assisted watched over by yet more of the colonels finest .
i then made a brief statement to the gathered throng , briefly explaining the reasoning behind my actions .
even though i had sated some of my anger , i was still raging inside , so i did not mince my words , and although i had said at the start that there would be no questions on completion of the statement , a daily mirror reporter just had to push his luck , and mr michaels what would happen if another news group did a similar thing he shouted .
there was a deadly hush as i turned and looked him in the eye , and calmly said then i will just have to dig a little deeper into my petty cash .
why hadnt sandra asked me that question ?
she already knew the answer .
after the statement i was driven back to the hospital , but as i walked into its entrance i felt a very strange sensation course through my body , and quickly glancing around i found out the answer , lo and behold there wasnt a paparazzi in sight .
chapter 23 i stayed with robin and emma for a further week , but finally i got the message , they were big children now and were perfectly capable of looking after their son .
that wasnt quite how they put it , they just leapt into an air ambulance with mark and disappeared off to russia , apparently that was where the worlds most skilled eye surgeon had his practice it always worries me that they call it a practice never a perfect .
he had flown in a few days earlier and examined mark , and then informed them that he was willing to operate , but there was only a seventy percent chance of mark regaining reasonable sight in his least damaged eye , but that was a good enough percentage for robin and emma , up until then it had been one hundred percent of almost nothing .
after they departed for moscow i paid switzerland a visit by the way id had my fingers crossed when i said they left me behind , i just wanted to go flying again , there was a gentleman there that had a fieseler storch , and he was willing to let me have a go in it .
i had flown a storch the day before id had my first up close and personal meeting with the hunter fga 11 in america , but although it had been a pleasant enough experience , at that stage of my life i had wanted something that would go faster than my car , but that was not now a problem , and i had purloined leutnant angerns storch as my future personal runabout .
i had to have something more than just a watch and a pair of sunglasses to show for all the money that i was shelling out .
the only aircraft to fly operationally from that patch of desert didnt even make it to el campo , it , along with a spare argus as10 c engine that was sat in the store room , perfectly preserved , was flown directly to duckford aerodrome and michaels engineers started on it with a vengeance .
the new engine was successfully bench tested three days later , so it was back into storage for the luckless motor , and the original one owner low mileage one refitted , after its own refurbishment .
although it did have to spend most of its time at duckford sitting to one side watching as the engineers stripped and re skinned the fabric covering of the aircraft , renew the seals in the undercarriage shock absorbers , replace the control cables , plus tidy up few other bits and pieces , although despite wanting to keep the aircraft as close to original as possible i sanctioned a new electrics system , along with a modern day aircraft battery , and allowed them to gut the radio .
they carefully installed a modern radio inside its empty case and then hinged the original front panel , complete with its original switches , so that i could see the led display and get to the push buttons when i wanted to go flying .
the refurbished aircraft would then be finished in its original desert camouflage , and michael promised faithfully to have it ready before easter .
my swiss tutor left me to get on with it after our first flight , and now that i was serious about the fieseler it seemed to me that i didnt fly it , we flew as one .
it was a wonderful experience which i hadnt felt before , even when flying a hunter .
i spent four days flying it around his little airstrip , and the swiss countryside it would lift off in 45 meters 150 feet , fly safely at 50 km h 32 mph , with a top speed of 175 km h 109 mph , and land within 18 meters 60 feet although that was purely academic , i soon got used to , in any sort of head wind , taking off and landing almost vertically , and a couple of time my tutor swore that i landed backwards .
if i hadnt been getting my own machine very soon i would have defiantly made him an offer that he couldnt refuse .
my storch finally arrived , sat on its very own transport trailer , with its wings folded back , in the back of a hercules and it looked lost in the huge interior .
michaels team had exceeded all expectations and completed the restoration in record time , due in no small part to it being in mint condition to start with , and over the next week we became as one , but poor chalkie had to get the paint pot out and re designate various parts of the taxi track as runways , as it took me a lifetime to taxi to the main runways , only to be airborne in seconds .
after a flying visit to check up on mark , easter was upon us and by good friday all the aircraft were in the hangar , in exactly the same positions that they had been in the desert , and all the artefacts well almost all were out of their boxes why ? , because i was going to have some very special visitors maana .
using the records that we had found , marcus and maria , with the help of many ex luftwaffe societies and charities , contacted virtually all of the direct decedents of the officers and men based in the desert , plus several from the tanker convoy .
this in itself had been a delicate exercise as none of them knew for certain that they were dead , they were all just missing in action .
the letters that they sent out explained that this weekend would be for them to see what their relatives had flown or worked on , pay their respects , and to receive a few mementos to help them remember them in the future .
those that couldnt make it would receive their mementos via an ex servicemens organisation .
almost a hundred and fifty relatives arrived by airbus the next morning , and spent the rest of the day with the aircraft and artefacts .
there were voluntary organisations on hand to help if any of them had any problems , but most seemed to come to terms with their grief in their own way .
oberstleutnant von beneckendorfs wife now in her early nineties sat at his desk all afternoon reading his diary , clasping the rosewood box that held the going away present that she had given him as she had bid him farewell that last time it was a fountain pen and leutnant angerns son , who had just worked out that he had been born whilst his father was actually airborne on his last mission , talked me into taking him up for a flight in his fathers aircraft .
it turned out that he had flown phantoms in the post war luftwaffe and he cried like a baby throughout the entire flight .
on landing he thanked me , and then returned to his hard bitten self .
that evening i lay on a grand dinner in mi casa , where everyone seemed to want to give a speech , and then it was off to bed , as we all had an early start the next day .
the majority of my guests slept on the top floor of mi casa , although a surprising number , and not only the younger ones , wanted to sleep on their relatives camp beds alongside the aircraft .
the next morning , after breakfast and hangover remedies , my guests and i were airborne again , and were flown to a royal moroccan air force special forces base close to the hangar , and then were transferred by their chinook helicopters to the site itself .
they spent a little time walking around the now empty hangar , and then re embarked in the helicopters , which then transported them to the site of their relatives untimely demise .
as soon as it became clear that we had discovered the exact location of their relatives remains , i had personally rung the german ambassador in rabat with the information , and within a very short time the area around the remains of the trucks and tankers was roped off and became an official war graves cemetary , and once the international media got hold of the story an unidentified american gentleman anonymously came forward and made ample provision for its construction and upkeep , the consensus of opinion in the press being that the benefactor was a german national that had emigrated to america after the war .
although the cemetery was not yet fully completed a german military chaplain officiated over its dedication and then a full military funeral ceremony was performed , and as the guard of honour , made up of serving luftwaffe personnel fired off the volley shots , a flight of luftwaffe eurofighter typhoons flew above in the missing man formation , and each one of my guests knew that their relatives would never again be forgotten .
as they all stood lost in their own thoughts david handed me a monocular that he always carried , and indicated to a sand dune a little way away .
on top of it stood a silent helicopter , i had presumed that it was full of members of the press , but as it came into focus i made out an elderly gentleman sat slumped in a wheelchair , accompanied only by two uniformed nurses .
initially i was puzzled at who it could be , until i looked closer , the figure was wearing , no , was draped in an old us naval uniform jacket .
on its sleeves were two and a half faded gold stripes , and on his chest he had a pair of pilots wings , although it was now devoid of medals .
i didnt have to be the brain of britain to work out that it was in all probability lieutenant commander dabrowski usn retired , and that the benefactor of the cemetery was of polish , not german extraction , but i made no tracks to climb the dune i thought it was best to let him come to terms with his demons in his own way .
that evening , back at el campo , i laid on a buffet dinner for my guests , but most of them just stood quietly in small groups , hardly touching the food , cementing friendships that had now been formed out of grief , and i knew that pilgrimages were being planned for the future , and then next morning it was time for me to say goodbye to my guests , but not before they said a final farewell to the aircraft , although leutnant angerns son and i had gone for a clandestine early morning spin .
i flew the storch to a desolate part of the airfield and swopped seats with him , he had more than enough experience to fly his fathers tiny aircraft , and fortunately this time there were no tears .
just before they departed i presented each set of relatives with a box , inside of which were their relatives military records , any personal items that we had come across , and a 37 mm anti tank cannon shell .
they were all families of military personnel so as i had struggled to think of a fitting memento of their visit i remembered that the one thing that i had a supply of was de activated anti tank cannon shells from the stukas and fw190s , so after all the brass cases had been polished to perfection , each member of that ill fated unit had one of them mounted on a varnished wooden plinth and their rank , name , service number and date of birth dash 20th november 1942 was etched into a brass plate and then attached to it .
finally , just as everyone was making their way to board the airbus frau von beneckendorf stopped , turned and raised herself out of her chair , and with the rest of my guests stood behind her she beckoned me to her .
as i approached her one of her grandchildren handed her something and then she gave me a hug and a kiss and thanked me again on behalf of everyone , and then pressed a small rosewood box into my hand .
i didnt need to shake it to know that there was a fountain pen inside , and she whispered a little something for you to remember us both by and then she was whisked up the steps and away .
i hope maria wouldnt be too upset if it cluttered up my desk .
it wasnt as though this was the last time that they would hear from me though , i had arranged for a regular newsletter to be sent to each of them , keeping them all up to date with the restorations , and which museums would be receiving what memorabilia , it would keep my editor in chief aka marcus out of trouble for a long while to come .
chapter 24 the following morning i stood in front of the assembled engineers and volunteers and presented aaron , michael , david , pierre , topsy and marcus with their sunglasses and chronometers , now ticking silently away .
they had been my prime movers in this project , and then after pronouncing that the restoration was now well and truly started i ceremonially pulled the chocks from under the wheels of the first aircraft destined for the waiting production line , although as i looked at the applauding engineers and volunteers i wondered what small memento they would be leaving with , then i remembered that i had an abundance of 20mm cannon shells from the 190s , problem solved .
as i wandered around the gathered throng i managed to have a few surreptitious words with most of my a team , who all nodded in agreement , although yet again teddy was conspicuous by his absence , anybody that dared to mention anything to do with the vintage aircraft to him were on a racing certainty that he would be in a foul mood for the rest of the day , he didnt like to play second fiddle to anyone , or anything , so at precisely eleven oclock i sat at the conference table , and around me were gathered my complete a team for its regular monthly meeting , and almost to a person in total agreement with item number 1 on the agenda .
before we started i asked maria if she would ask marcus , who as usual was minding the office whilst these sorts of meetings were taking place , to bring in a package that was sat on my desk , and a few moments later he entered and handed it to me , and then turned to leave .
marcus i said please wait a moment and indicating a vacant chair i said take a seat .
slightly bemused he sat down , but looked forward to the opportunity of watching the powers that be in their deliberations .
item one on the agenda i started , the growing problem that members of this team are having in coping with the management of their increasing staffing levels within their departments .
all those in favour of my solution please raise their hand and all but one member raised their hand , but poor old teddy didnt have clue what was going on so he hesitated , those against , but teddy sensibly decided to play the abstention card and so i said passed .
a confused marcus looked on , surly it was normally a more democratic process than this ? , and then became even more confused when i removed something from the package that he had just brought in , and slid it over to him .
he looked down at it and started to cry , i really , really was going to have to do something about my people skills .
in front of him lay a name plaque with marcus branning , director of human resources and disaster control .
maria handed him a box of tissues she had come prepared for this eventuality and after he had collected his composure i asked him , well , do you accept ?
he gave me a nod , right , item two , grockles although teddy interrupted me before i could continue , he wasnt a happy little bunny .
why wasnt i aware of this he stormed .
oh did i miss you , as it was a compulsory request that you all attend the ceremony this morning , i thought that i had gottn round to everyone there , i innocently said .
i left early he sulkily said .
ah well never mind , im sure you agree , right , item two grockles .
what is a grockle aka rubbernecker you may ask its cornish for holidaymaker or visitor ?
carlos , a member of the b team had raised the point that tourists were now turning up at the gate almost hourly asking if they could come in and have a look around el campo , sometimes by the bus load , it was starting to become a right royal pia pain in aris , so caroline , who was chairing that meeting promised to pass it upwards .
teddy of course was anti the idea of letting anyone in , he could just visualise a rubbernecker disappearing down the intake of one of his precious hunters .
david was a tad worried that a terrorist would assassinate me , and caroline thought it would be a wonderful idea , the flowers are so pretty in the summer , and then marcus made his first contribution in his new capacity , hoping that it wouldnt be his last .
how about a 15inch gauge miniature railway , he said .
there was complete and utter silence .
have i made a mistake ?
i thought .
but he bravely persevered , apparently he unbelievably had a peaked cap , oil can and sweat rag !
he was a qualified miniature railway engine driver .
his father was an avid enthusiast and he had been weaned on miniature steam engines .
apparently the main difference between miniature railways and narrow gauge railways is that the engines are replicas of full sized ones it has nothing at all to do with the size of the track thats news to me , i always thought that size was important , and the locomotives could have live steam , diesel engines , petrol engines , or electric motors propelling them .
does that mean that there is dead steam running about out there ?
i innocently asked .
yes he innocently said but you call it water , this is a side of marcus i never dreamt existed , and after ten minutes my eyes started to glaze over as he recited fact after fact , but i started to warm to his suggestion , so all those in favour of marcus carrying out a feasibility study raise their hand and all but one person raised a hand .
carried i said , i wasnt remotely interested if teddy wanted to vote against the idea or just abstain , whoever said this was a democracy anyway ?
after the meeting concluded it was a celebratory cup of tea all round marcus was teetotal and then i went off to the greenhouse for a spot of lunch , wondering as i went , if i could get a sweaty cloth ?
now any sane person would think that i had enough to keep myself busy , what with my boats and planes and golf course and. , but no , now i was contemplating getting into trains as well .
marcus and his dad quickly put a presentation together and a month after his inaugural speech how about a 15inch gauge miniature railway ?
i didnt say that it was a long speech he had a tent erected on my front lawn when you live on an airfield , you have an awfully large front lawn , and i sat , along with my a , b , c and any other team that could squeeze in , waiting for him to start .
why couldnt we hold the presentation in the conference room or cinema , because of the backdrop , it was a one third scale 4 6 2 steam locomotive , and it was gi normous and marcus wanted to fire it up , but fortunately his father clipped him round the ear , and that put a stop to that idea .
maybe marcuss hands wanted to grab hold of a vintage grease nipple , but his presentational skills were definitely twenty first century , and we were quickly in the cab of the lady s a 4 6 2 locomotive similar to the one sat in front of us , that is and about to set off along the fifteen inch 381 mm gauge track .
we departed from the main station at the site of the now redundant temporary main gate , which was used during the renovations when i had first moved in carlos had apparently suggested that , and were soon passing the main gate , fortunately there were level crossings , complete with gates , when we crossed the roads thomas insisted on them , and made our way towards the front of mi casa mrs blake suggested that privacy for me and my guests out back , just in front of the control tower chalkies idea , although i would lose two helicopter spots but who really needs five anyway !
, and how about a station there for me and my guests that was me .
we steamed past the back of the hangars and the engine shed aka c hangar , and around the airfield perimeter , although there would be signals situated at the approaches to the runways the caa , faa and every other alphabet organisation would insist on that .
when we approached the coast we could have gotten out and played on the amusements , or had a picnic or bbq , marcel suggested that or gone for a walk along the cliff tops somebody suggested that it might have been charlie that suggested that , but no , we carried on behind x , y , and z hangars and teddy actually suggested a station there that his people could use when they needed to go and eat in the greenhouse , or go home ahhh is he mellowing no , they could keep their cars outside the main gate and so keep off his taxiways .
as we passed high above the marina there was another station leading to a funicular railway going down the cliff into it carols idea , and then it was back into the main station , unless we first stopped off at yet another station , transferred onto an electric train marcus reckoned that it would be quieter and cleaner than steam what nobody had mentioned noisy or dirty steam to me , and after crossing the runway it would climb up onto an elevated track , hopefully away from too many flying golf balls , and loop around the golf course paul hated that .
david was partially placated when it was mentioned that most of the track would be fenced in , and i finally won him over when i said that he could have as many new cctv cameras as he wanted , covering the whole track , and all fitted with motion detectors , although i did draw the line at electrifying the fences , and patrolling dogs , but it turned out that chalkie was the easiest one of all to please , i just promised him a larger chicken coop apparently they are modulated , so it is a relatively easy operation , and a full time assistant signalman , and beryl was already busy pricking out her fuchsias .
a large car park could be constructed on land that i already owned below the old gate consultants suggested that and visitors would be lifted up to the entrance in a wheelchair friendly cable car inma suggested that .
visitors would only pay an entrance charge that covered the railways running costs itza suggested that if i didnt charge anything i suggested that then the queues would be twice around the costa blanca , and if i tried to make a profit on the whole shebang then only people richer than myself could afford to come .
decisions , decisions , decisions , but at the end of the presentation i said ok marcus sounds good to me , but only if i can have an oily cap , and i was going to have to add station master to his new job description .
chapter 25 as spring finally sprung towards summer i was feeling pretty good with myself .
the restoration works on the aircraft were going well , and michael was ever dropping hints about a permanent spanish subsidiary , wishful thinking or maybe not , and at every opportunity i was up in the air in the storch , it was definitely a love affair made in heaven .
i would fly it around the airfield and surrounding area on the slightest pretext and this morning was no exception , and thereby came my downfall , and everything from then on was to change .
after an early start , my late starts were now becoming a thing of the past , i spent half an hour at my desk , of course wearing my flying overalls , and then it was into my golf buggy green with gold stripes and nicknamed lady s and down to a hangar .
a cheery fred helped me push the storch out it was her turn to watch out for station flight visiting aircraft and i climbed in , and as soon as the ps and ts were right i blipped the throttle and was airborne .
i air taxied a few feet above the taxi way , giving topsy a heart attack as i overtook him , as he made his way to work , although i did resist the temptation of bouncing my port wheel off his roof , that would teach him not to forget his rear view mirror , then i throttled back and ground taxied up to zulu hangar .
after checking on the progress of the first stuka coming along the production line i walked over to lady s the jet one and clambered in , and once settled in , and the ground crew had arrived , i flashed her up and was airborne in next to no time .
after spending half an hour exercising my heart in the clouds , and extending my life expectancy by another thirty years in the process i returned her to the line , switched back into the storch and was off again .
the architects designing the railway line had suggested that a small station be constructed at my solar panel wind farm , giving the rubbernecks the chance to check out some of my green credentials , and then if they fancied a bit of a walk , they could walk to the picnic area , under davids watchful eye s of course .
after setting down on the taxi track i disembarked and had a walk round , it looked perfect , i was really getting into this miniature railway idea , then it was back to the storch , oops i had a queue , there were four hunters waiting to get past so i cheerfully waved at them and was quickly out of their way .
as i air taxied along i came across a red light , it was unsafe to cross the runway so i quickly set down and came to a stop a couple of meters from the light , just in time to see the clipper a regular bi weekly service run by a charter company between el campo and london city airport overfly the runway , the captain was obviously taking advantage of no landing fees to give his co pilot a few practice circuit and bumps .
once the lights changed back to green i was off again into the air , and as i approached a hangar i edged out over the empty golf course slightly , so that i could line up with the entrance to the hangar .
when i had departed i had noticed that the hanger was as usual empty , the rest of my fleet were now in b hangar , so i decided to save fred some leg work .
normally i would land on my little runway on the taxi track , and then turn and taxi up the slightly inclined apron of the hangar , and shut down just before i reached the doors but gradually i started to improve on this , and now if the wind was right and the hangar empty i would swing over the golf course , line myself up with the hangar and actually land on the apron and for the last few times i had switched the engine off as i touched down and coasted right into the hangar .
i would then slow down to a walking pace and trundle to a stop by the storchs bay , smart or what !
this time i left the touch down on the apron a slight bit too late and the aircrafts nose was actually in the hangar before i switched the engine off , no problem though , i was still at walking pace before i had gone half way down the hangar , and as i came to the bay i still had a little umpf left so i trod on the starboard brake and swung her round , coming to a stop with her tail pointing at her bay , double smart or what .
as i climbed down fred appeared , not her usual cheerful self though perhaps she was feeling peckish , and we pushed the storch back , and once the chocks were in i was into my golf buggy and back up to mi casa , just in time for a shower and change of clothes before lunch , now that is what i call a productive morning .
as i entered the greenhouse there was not the usual chatter , perhaps wigan had won the cup or something , and after a quick visit to the salad bar i found an empty table and sat down , perhaps i wouldnt put the fear of christ up some unfortunate newbie today , and then , just as i was finishing my starter , a few tables away i saw topsy slam his knife and folk down , give a loud growl , stand up and come marching my way , his face like thunder .
he stopped in front of me , opened his mouth to say something , took a look around , and changed his mind .
he spun around , and over his shoulder he barked follow me , now .
as there was nobody else nearby that he could possibly be talking to , i got up and followed him .
no one moved a muscle as he marched outside , with me trailing bemused behind .
outside he commandeered a buggy all but lady s were fair game for anyone wanting to move around the area , and nodded for me to get in , and we shot off to a hangar .
he came to a halt at the doors , disembarked , stormed into the hangar and came to a halt about two meters inside .
i presumed that he wanted me to follow him , so i slowly disembarked and went and stood beside him , very cosy i thought , and then i looked down at what he was staring at , a skid mark , with another one to one side of it .
oops , i had actually touched down inside the hanger , but what was his problem , so i went on the attack , so , i make one little mistake , whats the big deal , and then he reamed me a new rectal orifice .
1.the first mistake that i had made this morning was waking up , i hadnt bothered to tell anyone that i wanted to go flying everyone had to just assume that i was .
2.apparently helping to push the storch out wasnt too bad , although i hadnt checked with fred that it was serviceable , i as usual just assumed that it was .
3.when i had air taxied away i hadnt bothered to tell anyone where i was going , again everyone had to guess , god , you act as though you own the place he said in exasperation .
i do i thought , but let it slide .
4.then he got to the car bit , i just knew that he would , cant you take a joke i said .
no , please tell me the difference between you putting your wheel a foot in front of my windscreen for a bit of fun , and an aircraft crashing onto my bonnet for real , because at that moment in time my heart certainly couldnt tell .
i grudgingly gave him that point .
5.then you fly down a line of parked aircraft , not a marshaller in sight , frightening half a dozen mechanics that had their heads inside their aircraft thats a lie there were only four .
6.then you land and park your aircraft outside a hangar , without chocks in , assuming that no big jet engine is going to start up and blow it away .
i was starting not to like the direction this one sided conversation was going in .
7.then , leaving it there you climb into the lady s , again assuming that she is serviceable and has the right amount of fuel in it i had checked the gauges , 8.and then you charge off down the taxi track while the rest of the pilots are having the need to be careful with their brake pads continually drummed into them .
i was slowly getting the idea .
9.on landing you assume that i can read your mind about the serviceability of the lady s , and then you are off in that bloody storch again , actual word censored not bothering to thank the mechanics that had moved it before it could be blown over the top of the hangar , and again letting everyone guess where you were going .
before you say anything about me parking on the taxi track , im sorry i should have taxied off of it .
10.that would have been even worse he shouted .
four hunters taxiing past would have certainly blown it over the fence .
11.then there is the clipper driver seeing an aircraft about to fly into the side of him as he was about to touch down , he didnt have time to think oh , its a fieseler storch , it can land on a sixpence he obviously wasnt into decimalisation either , he just saw an aircraft about to collide with him .
it took chalkie half an hour to talk him back down .
12.and then you go flying off over the golf course , everyone expecting you to be shot down by a 43mm golf ball at any time .
13.then the piece de rsistance , you actually fly into the hangar , with everyone outside waiting for the crash , and my fred , inside , waiting to die .
she was sat at the end of the hangar , servicing the ground equipment and she looked up just in time to see the storch , propeller turning , engine noise reverberating around the hangar , and daylight below the wheels , flying towards her inside the effin hangar , please dont tell me that you expected her to get out the pilots notes and ascertain its landing distance .
the wind then seemed to go out of his sails slightly , but he still continued .
14.you may be one of the most naturally gifted pilots that i have ever come across , and what you can do with that storch will most likely go down in history , but , if your brakes had failed , or fred had just finished driving the deck scrubber around the hangar floor , you , the storch and my fred would have had to have been scraped off the end wall , and whilst a few of us might actually have missed you , most other people at el campo would have reached for the situations vacant , as this place would be a ghost town within a week .
you seem to fail to understand the simple fact that where there is power , then there is responsibility , and then he was out of the hangar , into the trolley and back off to finish his dinner .
i didnt think it was prudent to ask him for a lift .
i walked to the hangar door and sat on a block of concrete that supported something or other , and stared out over the golf course , and started to have a reality check .
everything he had said was of course true , although i had seen it all from a different perspective .
admittedly i did fly around as though i owned the place , as i actually did , but unfortunately everyone else had to obey the rules , or find another job .
i blithely went around assuming that everyone was my friend , chuckling admiringly at my antics , and never realising that perhaps they didnt even like me , just the money that i put in their bank accounts every month , and in my mind i went through my list of staff employees friends , and it didnt make easy thinking .
the first one to join me had been maria , if i had met her in different circumstances i doubted if she would have even noticed me , her i.q .
was about three times that of mine , and then there was david .
he was through and through a military man , although to give him his due he was always professional , and caroline i think could easily have been friends with sheila , although i think charlie and i could have been mates down the pub .
vicente always has been vicente , and always will be , although i think that i would have crossed over the road to avoid teddy .
in fact the only ones that i seemed to be totally relaxed with were topsy and chalkie , and i seemed to have blown them both away .
it was time for me to come to terms with the fact that el campo wasnt a democracy , it was a totalitarian regime , with me as its dictator , whether i liked it or not .
it really couldnt be anything else , or anarchy would rule , and then it slowly dawned on me about all my antics in the storch , i had not been showing off to anyone else , i had been showing off to myself .
letting my own insecurities not only put myself into harms way , but endangering other people in the process , and i finally reached a conclusion , perhaps the same one that sashas crowd had come to all those centuries ago , with the benefits came responsibility , so i climbed down from that friendly concrete block at least it hadnt shouted at me and went and sat next to topsy .
he must have realised that i was missing when he got back to the greenhouse and come back to collect me he had been patiently waiting there for an age , whilst i was churning everything around in my brain .
where to he asked front door or greenhouse ?
greenhouse i said .
he gave an approving nod and we drove off , i wonder if he knew what decision i had come to .
as i entered the side door that i had exited half an hour earlier , i doubted if anyone in the dining room had moved a muscle , they were still sitting there , cutlery poised , frozen in time , and letting their lunches get cold .
i quickly walked up to fred , who tried to politely stand up , but i signalled her to keep seated , and then apologised to her from the bottom of my heart , and everyone else in the room knew that it wasnt just her that i was apologising to , it was to everyone , and then i turned to walk out with as much dignity as i could muster , although i didnt get very far , i glanced up at the mezzanine and noticed that not one person up there was looking at me .
a team meeting in the cinema in ten minutes , i said quietly , and walked out .
five minutes later i was stood in front of them , and i was still seething , so i read them the riot act , although hopefully most of them knew that it was really only meant for the consumption of one man , but the rest could still remain and take in the fact that things had just changed around el campo .
what it boiled down to was that these people were paid top dollar to protect me , feed me and cater to my every whim , but it had been someone halfway down the food chain that had finally had the sphericals to grab me by the throat and try and protect me from myself .
he hadnt put his job security before his mechanics safety .
as i slowly lost steam i realised that i may be heading for a pile of resignation letters so i gave two examples of how thing would be from now on , and the first one up was david .
every time that i wanted to do something stupid he would forcibly point out the error of my ways , but if i decided to ignore his advice anyway he would put plan b into operation , and make the best of a bad job , at the end of the day i was still his employer .
the next one up was carole now that got her attention , when we were approaching the pirates off somalia she had asked me to go with her into her sea cabin , at the time i thought that her timing was a bit out , but what she wanted me to do was go below to comparative safety , along with the passengers and all non essential crew , put on half a dozen flak and life jackets and wait for the bullets to stop flying .
i had quickly told her that i appreciated her concern but i was not asking any member of her my crew to face something dangerous whilst i was cowering below .
the buck stopped with me , so i would listen to everyones advice , but when the time came it would be me , and me alone that would take the decision to press the button , and face the consequences afterwards .
as i was now a dictator i didnt take any questions , i just left them to their thoughts and made my way to my bedroom .
as i lay on my bed staring at the ceiling , i wondered what next , and sam answered that , she took the blue gel thing out of my man fridge and placed it over my eyes , and slowly i started to relax , and as it started to warm up she removed it and massaged my eyes , and then after rolling me over , my shoulders finishing off with reflexology on my feet .
thank god i hadnt gone for the male of the species , she was worth every penny that i was paying her i wasnt into decimalisation either , and marcus was a very lucky chap .
after i had been pummelled into submission i lay quietly there for a few minutes , and then heard sam moving about , a sure sign that it was time to move , and after another shower and change of clothes i looked quizzically at her .
perhaps a visit to your office might be in order she suggested , and left it at that .
on my desk were four resignation envelopes , maria had fortunately fended off the others , and the first one was from teddy .
of course it was my fault but he was in charge air side so the buck stopped with him .
very heroic , i thought , but he just didnt understand that he was not the station commander any more , he didnt make the rules now , i did , and i sat there for a few minutes twirling von beneckendorfs fountain pen in my fingers , trying to put something appropriate onto paper , but finally i gave up and put my new maxim of why keep a dog , and bark yourself into force .
i pressed the buzzer and maria entered carrying a yellow folder something for me to sign , placed it in front of me , and said something i prepared earlier sir , with just a hint of a forced humour .
i opened it and of course it was my letter to teddy accepting his resignation , thanking him for all his sterling work on my behalf and wishing him well in the future , perhaps not quite how i would have put it but close enough , so i signed it .
is he outside ?
i asked , dreading the answer .
no sir , he is on the clipper , and as if on cue i heard it lifting off the runway on its way back to london , and absent mindedly wondered how many of the others were on board it .
i picked up the second letter and of course it was from david .
i looked up at maria and asked is david outside ?
yes sir , shall i send him in ?
i had a feeling that all my quaint little nicknames were now a thing of the past .
the last time i had heard so many sirs in one conversation it had ended with the gentlemans barber from brighton asking me if i would like anything for the week end , sir ? , when i said a crate of guinness he looked rather sad , and it took me less than two minutes to sort david out i was not going let him go , even if he tried to kung fu me , so i tore up his letter , although he did pause before he left my office , i could see that he had something else on his mind .
yes david , what is it ?
the range , sir , its alright for you to blaze away in the middle of the night with a uzi if you can not sleep , but really there should always be at least two people there at any one time , and i can always tell when you can not sleep , my morning shift are dog tired .
the bachelor quarters were above the indoor range and it appeared that the sound proofing left a lot to be desired .
i paused for a few seconds then reached into my pocket and removed a small bunch of keys , detached one , and handed it to him .
if i need to go into the weapons locker in the future , i am sure that you will be the first to offer to keep me company .
the next letter was from chalkie , is chalkie there maria ?
i said into the intercom , and almost instantaneously he came in and stood in front of me .
i looked at his letter , and then up at him , group captain heslop has offered his resignation , and i have accepted it do you still want to do this ?
a smile came on his face and he shook his head , if its ok with you then i might just hang around for a bit longer , and perhaps we can devise a system of morse code on your p to t press to transmit if you dont want to actually talk to me .
then he was off , but not very far , he stuck his head back around the door and said i wonder , has anyone ever landed a storch on a moving miniature train ?
then he was off , whistling tunelessly , i wonder if his singing was any better !
the last one in was topsy , and he sheepishly entered my domain , but i was not at my desk , i was sat in one of my la z boys , and indicated for him to sit in the other , and on the coffee table in front of us lay the torn up shreds of his letter .
if you think that you can escape that easily then you have another think coming , and then i went on to thank him for standing up to me before i killed myself , or even worse , killed or injured someone else .
we then had a coffee and chatted for a while about something and nothing until i finally plucked up enough courage to say what i wanted to say , about friends and employees , i hope you realise that i look on you as a friend , possibly my only real friend at el campo well perhaps chalkie as well , he always lets me win at uckers , and as a friend i have to tell you that you are wasted as king of the crap im not as blunt as him , now that teddy has gone there will be changes made , and i definitely want you higher up the food chain .
he lounged there for a moment longer , then gave a resigned sigh , stood up , and as he headed towards the door he said ok andy , but only if you let me win at uckers tonight ?
you are joking i shouted at his back i dont like anyone well enough to do that .
as i settled back into the chair i thought that that was more than enough for one day , but no , there was a tap on the door funny place to keep a tap , and in came beryl , and confusion racked my brain again .
i had presumed that she was sat beside teddy on the clipper wrong , it turned out that i had done something terrible when i had offered her the position of horticultural manager , she found out that she had an identity all of her own .
on leaving uni she had met flight lieutenant heslop raf , and a little while later became flt lt heslops wife .
then as he progressed , she became squadron leader , then wing commander and finally group captain heslops wife although with the last one came the title the station commanders wife as well .
when he retired he still hung onto his title so she was still the wife of group captain heslop raf retired until that fateful day when i had offered her the job .
to me it had just been a means to an end , but apparently to her it had been a life changing moment .
the first thing that maria had done was to arrange to have some business cards printed off for her , beryl heslop horticultural manager , and there was no mention of teddy anywhere , and she just loved it , so after my full , frank and meaningful chat with them him , hubby had come out and told her to go and pack whilst i write out our resignations , we are out of this dump .
her answer had been a categorical , go pack yourself , im going nowhere i think she said pack .
she had wanted to stand up to him for years , but had never before had the self confidence to do so .
if its not going to cause a problem , please can i stay ?
of course you can , but only as long as i can have those purpley things with white edges on , on my desk , instead of those horrible yellow and orange thingys .
she threw her head in the air , whooped and did a little jig i think i had just set someone free , but as she skipped out of the door she turned and said do you mean the phalaenopsis prchidaceae or the paphiopedilums ?
i just loved it when she talked dirty .
chapter 26 after the realignment of the natural forces at el campo i spent a few weeks away , but not by design , mark was undergoing hopefully the last of his operations on his eye in russia and he wanted me there with him , and so did his parents , so it was nice to be where i was wanted .
robin , emma and i spent many an hour idly chatting about this and that as mark lay sleeping , and robin finally wheedled the truth out of me about what had recently transpired , and emma , who had been reading a magazine and half listening , put her two pennth in , perhaps you are going stir crazy in that place , and perhaps she was right , el campo did have all the characteristics of a prison sometimes .
i couldnt just wander out for a quick coffee at the local cafe any time i felt like it david would go ballistic .
on my return perhaps i should try to broaden my horizons , but how ?
then i had an idea .
every thursday lady hyacinths four star restaurant , the one hidden under the mezzanine floor was up and running for business .
first off , most monday mornings , one of marcels staff would ring the first four people on the list that was getting longer and longer by the day .
they could invite one person each usually their husband or wife , and each of those eight persons had to tell him or her their favourite meal , complete with any idiosyncrasies .
everyone knew the rules so it always made for an interesting menu three days later , and either i or a member of the a team would be there , not only to brush up on our own communication techniques , but to act as referee , so when i returned back home from russia i took the table , not to show off , but to meet real people .
i was well into my roast beef and yorkshire pudding when a gentleman with a liking for beef wellington invited me along to his local yacht club for sunday lunch .
it wasnt one of the more prestigious clubs that i occasionally visited unfortunately most of their members were right up their own backsides , any further and they would be seeing daylight , but after he assured me that it was more relaxed than my usual haunts , i agreed , and sunday morning found us both in my palm islander 420 making our way towards the spinnaker yacht club .
we had a slight problem coming alongside the visitors pontoon , it was crowded with smaller boats , but my crew finally manage to nudge its way in , and dropped us off , they then went off to find a buoy somewhere , have their packed lunches , and await my command .
the club house and surrounding areas , including the pontoons had that well worn look , but were not quite approaching their sell by dates yet , and they were bustling with grotty yachties .
as i walked up and down the pontoons with simon , my new friend , with james trying not to fall between the slats , not to far behind , i quickly understood his definition of relaxed .
as sure as eggs were eggs everyone recognised me if their glasses hadnt fallen overboard like one poor soul but the most i got was hi mr michaels , fancy a quick one before lunch and then finally , after saying please call me andrew a few hundred times it was hi andy , throw this down your throat .
by the time it was dinner time i was in little england now , dinner was at lunch time i had developed a very comfortable glow , and was introduced to the commodore , not because he especially wanted to speak to me , it was traditional for him to greet all the members on sundays , if he was on board , and then we made our way to our table , not a special one , just one that was vacant in the middle of the mle .
finally , after spotted dick and custard , it was a large brandy in the bar , and then simon asked if i wanted to come on a quick test drive to put his mates new engine through the mill .
i politely declined but insisted on him going , i would be fine here , and he should take all the time he wanted , i had no intention of leaving this little haven for a while yet .
the yacht club was on a peninsular that curved around a small natural bay , and there was a chandlery , and a showroom for new and used boats , and a few nautically associated shops , but the most striking thing about the whole place was a huge spinnaker shaped rock separating the yacht club from the town and river on the other side , giving the club its name .
it meant that with just one barrier , and a couple of security guards the whole place was in splendid isolation , if you were there , you were a yachtie .
after my brandy i made excuses to my new friends and went for a stroll to clear my head , and risking davids wrath i instructed james to have a coffee on the veranda , and for the first time in a long , long , time i strolled alone , back along the jetties .
it was as though i was a long lost friend returning from the outback , not someone that they had met for the first time a couple of hours before , and after a few polite refusals i accepted a coffee from two delightful ladies of indeterminate age , on the deck of their beautifully kept motor yacht , although they werent too sure about the motor part , the yacht hadnt been to sea in ten years , and as i sat there in relaxing company i made yet another of my instant decisions , if i was invited , which i had been about ten times already , i would join the club , this island of tranquillity was just too good for me to miss .
with this in mind i eventually made my way towards the showroom , as it looked as though i would be in the market for something a little smaller .
the 4 20 was way too big and i also had to bring a crew along , who knows , they might just cramp my style , and the ribs were just too powerful for a quiet potter about on the oggin .
the showroom looked as though it was still open i imagined that they did most of their business at weekends , so i wandered in , passing below that ominous sign b s skinner , yacht brokers that hung above the doors .
it was a large , airy , and it was full of tupperware boats , fibre glass boats but i spotted trouble looming on the horizon , if her name started with s , i was straight out of here .
she was tall and slim , had short salt and pepper hair and had a short ish nautically themed skirt on , with a sailor blouse , and she looked absolutely knacke done in .
hello mr michaels , my name is breena skinner , i was hoping you would call in , i need a new tyre for the toyota .
phew , i thought , that was close , but i was not out of the woods yet , not only had she got a sense of humour , she also had a delightful geordie accent .
please call me andrew i said and then continued breena ?
thats an odd name .
its short for sabrina , but if you call me that i will scratch your eyes out , im only a 34c .
obviously it was the standard family joke that was often cracked in front of comfortable friends , not total strangers , so she went bright red and quickly continued but i only move onto first name terms when a sale is concluded .
hurry up and sell me something then , i quite like breena , and then we both went into fits of laughter , although i didnt think it was all that funny .
within fifteen minutes i had found out that she was divorced , skinner was her maiden name and b was for brian , her brother .
she had joined the brokerage firm six years ago following her divorce .
she didnt have enough money left over to buy anything suitable outright so she invested it in her brothers firm and moved in with him and his wife .
touch wood touching my head things werent going too badly , despite the recession .
touch my head again woman and i will kiss you i thought , and then we got down to boats , after first apologising for spilling her life story .
i must be tired she said , its been a long week , but at least tomorrow is my day off .
i explained my dilemma , and after sympathising profusely at my condition we started looking for a suitable boat , it had to be small ish but not too small , fast ish but not too fast , easy to handle solo , i was certain about that , and i definitely didnt want plastic .
that narrowed the field down a bit so she said do you mind pre loved , i much prefer it to second hand .
second hand , im a billionaire , i dont do second hand , then i thought about my hunters , aquarama , and the railway engines that were starting to turn up on my door step , well not many anyway .
she had an idea and we went outside .
under an oversized car port was a beautiful looking boat , just a smidging over 36 feet 11 meters , and it was a hybrid , her chined hull was plastic but a very good plastic , but the rest of her was pure wood .
someone had spent a lot of time and money on this one , and she had a lovely clean bottom but back to the boat .
even though she was out of the water i could tell that the designer had the high speed rescue launches and motor torpedo boats of another era at the back of his mind it really was a man thing , and i quickly followed breena up the ladder , at this stage i would have followed her into a blast furnace , but unfortunately my charismatic charm didnt seem to be working at the moment .
the smaller rear cabin was only for show , underneath the gleaming canopy were two shiny volvos , and they were huge , then forward of the large open cockpit although there was a cunning cover for inclement weather was the galley , lounge , and right in the bow the captains cabin , complete with head and shower , it was only really a two berth but friends could always doss on the settees she said .
not on your nelly i thought , although with the right colour sheets i imagined that the cabin could be made to look quite nice .
it looked almost new so i asked breena about g wizzs history .
it had been built just over two years ago by a bespoke boat builder in the south of england , to very strict specifications , and as money was no object to the owner to be , no corners were cut .
upon taking delivery of g wizz if i bought it , that name would have to go the new owner decided rather than have her transported to the mediterranean , it would be a good idea for him and his new wife to sail it there , via the french canals .
the canal system is a proven way of ferrying small craft to the med but unfortunately by the time they arrived in the med his new bride hated the noisy , smelly , cramped little thing with a vengeance , and when it finally came to a standstill in the spinnaker yacht marina , and silence finally assaulted her ears she presented him with a choice , it or me .
for some obscure reason he chose her , and so the one owner , hardly used g wizz was put up for sale , but unfortunately it was so individual that it would only appeal to a very limited clientele .
it wasnt in any sense of the word economical , it had limited accommodation , and had so many extras piled on it that it was excruciatingly expensive for its size i wonder what it would look like in green .
when we returned to her office we talked turkey , what was her bottom line , i was still thinking of the sight of her climbing up that ladder , and when she told me i nearly fainted , but if it meant that she would call me andrew then it would be worth every cent .
how about a test drive i asked .
certainly , but she couldnt have it in the water before midday maana .
isnt monday your day off ?
i asked her .
oh i will do almost anything for a quick sale hold that thought , i thought , even give up my day off .
drat , but i did notice that she didnt offer to let her brother do the driving .
simon then turned up to play gooseberry , so after making a date of it i reluctantly left , but i would return , and at the crack of mid day i stood on their pontoon and watched breena edge the g wizz or g to her friends towards the jetty , she had just negotiated a new mortgage at the fuel bunker to top up the tanks , and after nimbly climbing on board and sucking in my tummy at the same time she eased the launch out into the mirror smooth mediterranean .
first she showed me what g could do , then i was allowed to put her through her paces , and i was so impressed that i almost forgot about the tight jeans and plunging neck line , almost , but not quite .
as it was technically her day off apparently she could relax her self imposed dress code slightly , any more relaxed and she would be arrested i thought , but whos complaining .
as we surged past el rincon , the restaurant that i had stolen from vicente and lady h , i asked her if she was feeling a bit peckish , and nodded to the prestigious eating hostelry .
there , oh its to die for she said but its a national holiday , you have to book at least a month in advance to get a table on a fiesta day .
more like six weeks , give or take , i thought , then said in a hopeful voice well lets give it a try shall we ?
you get us in there and ill have your baby , or maybe even two .
now really hold that thought , i thought again , and smiled to myself , i was definitely starting to turn into a right devious little so and so .
two years ago , as the prices and standards started to drop slightly i mentioned this to emilio , the owner , and i had his tale of woe .
all restaurateurs were feeling the pinch and doing the same , but i put it to him that if one of the top flight establishments held their nerve and kept , or even improved on their standards then clients with a fine palate , and a wallet to match would flock to it .
you may lose a few of your regulars , but would more than make up for it with new ones that were becoming dissatisfied with their regular hostelry .
possibly , he said , but i dont have the finances to take the gamble .
but i did , so i became a silent partner .
first off i purchased some waste land behind the hotel and turned it into a landing strip , more for my own convenience , but over the following two years it caught on , especially when the spanish royalty discovered it .
i also had my marina people construct a landing stage to encourage the nautical visitors , but that didnt seem to be as much of a hit at first .
after climbing to the top of the steps the last thing that clients wanted was something to eat , oxygen maybe , but not food , until today .
with carols interest in a funicular railway between the marina and the miniature railway i investigated the possibility of having a small one installed up from the pontoon , and it had opened for business only hours earlier , so i eased g alongside a rather large schooner , that was taking up the whole of the pontoon arrogant so and so , who does he thing he is me ? .
it was standard practice if pontoons are full , just as long as you had clean fenders and were using the correct footwear , stiletto heels can wreak havoc on a timber deck .
i helped breena down onto the pontoon and we made our way up the funicular , but we were almost at the top before i realized that we were still holding hands , oops .
i noticed also that the car park was full of big shiny cars and there were at least two helicopters and a cessna parked out the back , although i wasnt surprised that one of them was twinkle , david or james must be lurking in the shadows somewhere .
breena nervously gripped my hand as emilio approached , and was shell shocked when he kissed her on both cheeks and said , nice to see you again ms skinner , or please may i call you breena , your brother and his wife not with you today ?
he then turned to me hello andrew , your table is ready , as always and led the way .
i may be a silent partner , but no way was i going to be an absent one .
over our lunch i came clean about el rincon , but told her that i still wasnt going to let her off the babies .
she gave me a scowl , but didnt make any comment , although was that a hint of a blush on her cheeks ?
and when a fairly senior spanish royal came over to say adios on his way out , was she impressed , or what .
on our way back down the funicular breena must have suffered from altitude sickness as she insisted on a spot of mouth to mouth resuscitation , and when we clambered on board g , a very serious dilemma arose .
as we had consumed the best part of a rather nice bottle of ros between us , we couldnt decide if we were over the limit or not , so we decided to err on the side of caution and have forty winks first .
fortuitously she had called in at the haberdashers as well as the fuel bunker this morning so it wasnt too uncomfortable in the captains cabin , although we did get coitus interruptused after twenty of them , the schooner wanted to leave .
they transferred our mooring lines to the pontoon and tied us up again as it slipped out , but just as the skipper was about to set off into the wild blue yonder he indicated to my inside out shirt and muttered , that explains it , the amount of rocking about your boat was doing the least i expected was a storm force ten .
as i was dragged unceremoniously back down to the cabin i thought , at my age im lucky to reach a gale force eight , but breena didnt seem to mind .
now about those remaining twenty winks ?
and as we lay there waiting for the ros to wear off and perhaps a gentle breeze force three to kick in we swopped sea stories about our past lives .
she knew about sheila and sandra from the television , but sasha hadnt caught the medias attention as much , so i bought her up to date on that episode in my life , but breena was a bit nervous about coming clean about her exploits , but i was a big boy , i didnt expect her to be all virginal , after all she had two children .
her marriage had lasted almost twenty five years , which in this day and age wasnt too bad , and then her husband went off to give his secretary some personal dictation , and just after her divorce had been finalized , she had met up with the wrong kind of guy , but fortunately she saw the light just before the cheque cleared .
once she was settled in spain she met a very nice gentleman at the yacht club , but after six months it ended in tears , not hers , his , he was sooooo boring , then after a year of self inflicted celibacy she met another very nice gentleman , who bought a very nice boat from her , and they were quickly on first name terms , but unfortunately there was one very small problem , his wife she was only five foot two , so for four years she was the other woman , which worked out fine for both of them .
then last october her friend with benefits finally took his still blissfully ignorant wife back to the uk , permanently , although he did return to put the villa on the market a month later .
she took a weeks holiday , but on the first night that they actually slept together , up until then there hadnt been much time for actual sleep , she found out that he snored terribly , so the next morning she was back at the brokerage , and he put the villa on the market .
the affair had run its course , no one had been hurt , and his wife thought that it was very sweet that he came back three days early .
as we made our way sedately back to the marina i confessed that i had been sold on g wizz from first sight , but had kept it from her .
what she shrieked , you mean that i didnt have to drop my knickers to get the sale .
i told her to wash her mouth out , and stop telling porky pies , she hadnt been wearing any , and then threw her overboard .
fortunately she could swim so i quickly had her back on board again , who said i was boring , but then we nearly had our first tiff .
she liked the idea of the hunter green hull , but didnt like the idea of the gold stripe , and whilst she was on the subject , i dont like her new name either , tender to the lady s just doesnt trip off the tongue , although i knew exactly where i was going to keep her , there was a nice little space between the funnel and the hangar where she would fit perfectly .
we tried to do the whole courting bit , but finally decided that we were a bit too long in the tooth to waste valuable time , so after spending the following weekend with me at el campo she sort of just didnt go back , and she fitted in brilliantly .
when i took her to meet sheila , george and millie it was a lovely day , so we just lounged around on the cushioning inside the volcano , talking if we wanted to , being quiet when it suited us , and i realized that at this moment in time i was where i wanted to be , with someone that i wasnt trying to impress , or trying to emulate .
we were both about the same level socially , and both liked the same things , although if i had met her six years ago i definitely wouldnt have had an affair with her , but it might have crossed my mind briefly .
as i lay there dozing , my head on her lap , she finished her novel and slapped me on the stomach with it here she said try reading this , i think you might like it .
i looked at the cover , road to recovery by tony wilson .
perhaps another tiff was brewing i thought i had told her that i liked techno thrillers not the history of the rac .
chapter 27 shortly after becoming a member of the royal yacht squadron , and officially becoming a gentleman interested in sea yachting i , or rather rys lady s received a gold embossed invitation to partake in an event from the first saturday after the last tuesday in july , until the following saturday , in plain english it was cowes week .
the regatta had first started in 1826 so the organising committee had had more than enough time to get its act together , and so clipped to the back of it was a note would i be interested in becoming the start line for this , that and the other events the finish line for a few more the host for this , that and the other receptions etc , etc , etc , and if i had time to spare , would i like to light the first firework on friday , i gathered from the wording that there would be a few more sparklers to follow it .
p.s .
perhaps you might like to arrive the wednesday before the first sat ... . etc for the briefings .
as the note was signed by the admiral himself i quickly twigged that it wasnt a request , it was more along the lines of a royal command , and as i didnt want to end up in the castles dungeons i rsvpd sounds good to me , see you the wednesday before the first ... ... ... .. breena and i duly arrived with rys lady s on the appointed day , and it was throwing it down , but we quickly realised that rain was not a consideration when organising a sailing regatta , reception , bbq or firework display where the grotty yachtie fraternity were concerned , it was just a minor inconvenience .
is it was the usual reply when i mentioned it in passing , water pouring down my neck .
as this was breenas outing i decided to ease her gently into it , until hrhs mum decided to pop in un announced for a cuppa and a quick look round .
as i said to her breena not his mum , i was thrown in at the deep end , and all i ever kept repeating to myself , over and over again in my mind was , it doesnt matter if i mess it all up , im still richer than they are well apart from one or two .
it was organised chaos , but in the end it all went swimmingly , quite literally for a lot of the participants it was blustery as well as wet , but at least the rain stopped for the fireworks .
we i like the word we left cowes saturday lunchtime , waving to shed loads of new friends and set sail for portsmouth harbour , although it wasnt very far away , we could see it , which was very fortuitous as my sorry our first officer and eleven of my permanent crew were not on board , although they hadnt gone awol on the isle of wight , they had been press ganged .
as we followed the shipping lane towards the harbour mouth we paused to embark two royal navy merlin helicopters covered in hunter green paint complete with gold stripes , very pretty i thought , and they were quickly pushed into the shed out of harms way .
as we entered the harbour all manner of ships piped us , tooted us and generally made strange noises at us , but we couldnt hang about gossiping , as the saying goes tide and time waiteth for no man , and in this case it was the tide , we were about to enter hm dockyard portsmouths tide less basin .
as the tidal water in the harbour reached the same level as in the basin , the caisson separating the waters was removed and the lady s slipped in .
once safely inside , the caisson was replaced , and it was gotcha , and rys lady s became hmy lady s it must be very confusing for her .
she had been commandeered she was now her majestys yacht lady s , although i knew all about it , i had lent her to hrh for his hols .
of course it wasnt just for his holidays it was for a royal visit or two , and for the past month or so lady ss jetty at el campo was more along the lines of hm dockyard san miguel .
i had taken hrh up on his not so subtle hint , and was going to lend him the lady s for about eight months all told .
the royal navy would provide the crew for her , and as per hmy britannia of days of old , the yachtsmen , senior rates and officers would be the best of the best , although i was pleased that my first officer and the eleven of my crew that were reservists had all been re activated for the duration , it wasnt as though she would be in the hands of total strangers .
the new crew had started to arrive a month ago and had been shadowing my crew ever since , although i was a bit confused over robert my first officer he was suddenly called jimmy the nickname for the first lieutenant of a rn ship .
after carol had eased her alongside , and she was securely tied up , breena , myself and my crew disembarked onto the jetty where rear admiral hank williams rn , whom i had first met after my contra taunt with the pirates off somalia was waiting it is traditional that an admiral be the captain of the royal yacht along with the new crew of hmy lady s , it was time for her commissioning ceremony , although i had quietly warned hank that any dents and the repairs would come out of his pocket , although they should really come out of jimmys , as for the next eight months he was going to be paid twice for doing the same job .
the new crew looked immaculate in their number 1s with medals , but what got my eyelids fluttering was the fact that they all had the royal yacht flash on their right arm and the yachtsmen had royal royal crown yacht on their cap tallies .
the guard with their rifles flashing and the royal royal marine band did its stuff , and then the lady s was a member of the grey funnel line , although she would still remain green .
in the next few days she would be moved into a dry dock where something secret would be bolted to her bottom , for security reasons , i asked what it was , but was told that if they told me they would then have to shoot me , so i left it at that and an extra nine coats of paint added to her hull , to give it the royal shine .
during early discussions with hank i had asked about any permanent optional extras that might be added to my ship , and the only major items were to be the bottom sensors , some extra radio bits and pieces , and ecms electronic counter measures , but those bits would be safely locked away when i got her back , and only jimmy would have the key , paranoia or what .
what about me i asked , with not a hint of joviality in my voice , its my ship after all , and after a very long pregnant pause it was agreed that i could have one as well , after i had signed the official secrets act .
i think that that meant that if i left my key lying around , they could shoot me , and then hank wondered if i might consider a name change for the lady s , but fortunately i had done my research , with royal yachts of old being called fubbs , kitchen , royal caroline and victoria and albert , i could see nothing wrong with lady s. point taken , change of subject .
do you want me to empty the stuff out of her stern ?
i asked , referring to the sting er or two .
with a perfect nelson , hank said what stern ?
mind you if you use any of them , you replace them .
after the ceremony i was invited back on board for the party , but it wasnt the same , for heavens sakes she even had her own air force now .
the two merlins , which were now ranged ceremonially side by side on the flight deck were outfitted almost as swish as my aw109s grand , almost but not quite , although to give them their due , mine was not air to air missile compatible .
as the merlins had to return to yeovilton that evening , breena and i thumbed a lift to eastleigh airport in one , where we transferred to the grumman , although i left most of my crew behind , they would now be shadowing their navy counterparts until they were fully au fait with her .
chapter 28 as autumn gently arrived breena settled in perfectly , no tantrums , she just blended in .
even mrs blakes nose wasnt knocked out of joint , and fortunately sam was ambidextrous , she was quite happy being a valet and a ladys maid .
we spent a considerable amount of time with mark as his eye healed , he would always be blind in one eye , but with glasses he should have reasonable sight in the other , and he was a visible reminder to the press to keep their distance , no matter where we went we saw neither hide non hair of them , but they were replaced by yet more builders at el campo , they were storming ahead with the railway track every time i blinked another kilometre of track had been laid .
the engine shed aka c hangar had finally been discounted it was far to near my bedroom window for comfort , so a purpose built one was being constructed close to the picnic area .
it was not really sour grapes on my part apparently there are people out there that are actually prepared to pay good money just to wander around such places , although c hangar had been turned into a temporary holding shed .
rail track had been laid on the concrete , and each new locomotive that arrived was given a good seeing to , by yet more new employees that were being temporarily housed by the staff of my new director of human resources , as they were all second hand , some had even been built in the 1920s .
with all this activity going on around the place i was starting to feel slightly redundant , but breena came to my rescue yet again pictures , not the action pact movies in my very own climate controlled cinema , but pictures that you hang on the walls .
she had noticed that most of mine looked as though they had been given away free with two settees from the local furniture shop , and i must admit that pictures had not been one of my highest priorities when fitting out mi casa , so we did an audit thats like a list but posher and toured every nook and cranny of the hallways , ballrooms , family and guest rooms , and found that for a man of my standing no comments please i was woefully under displayed , but what about the staff quarters i hear you ask ok , they can have the redundant freebees from the furniture shops , and on completion of the audit list we retired to my office , fired up the computer and breena said right , what artists do you like ?
dont know i replied .
right then , what pictures do you like ?
dont know i replied .
well do you want abstract , contemporary , classical , impressionist , art deco , fantasy , minimalist , surrealist .
landscapes , seascapes , cityscapes , still life , floral , rural or mythological ?
yes please i said .
breena then thought it was going to be a long day , so out came a blank piece of paper and it quickly turned into another list , painters da vinci mona lisa and the last supper quite liked them 3 stars michelangelo interior decorator that specialised in ceilings just had mine done 1 cross monet haystack , poppy field , woman with brolly really liked them 4 stars van gogh pass rembrandt double pass picasso i couldnt work out which way up some went but still 2 stars jackson pollock apparently he painted no.5 done the paint by numbers thing 1 cross sargent really did like the morning walk and nude egyptian girl and not just because of her bum 5 stars lowry yes and no liked the matchstick men , but some paintings looked as though he had found them on the floor after a kindergarten art class , and signed them 3 stars and a cross as one can see i have the making of a top flight art critic , then it was onto the next list , style what styles do you like , cubism , abstract , con.. but i stopped her mid flow .
i quite liked the egyptian bum .
deep sigh and change of subject .
do you like oils ?
messy , watercolours ?
runny , etching ?
later dear , reproductions ?
what ! ! !
forgeries , prints .. enough , enough , i think that this project is going to be far bigger than either of us imagined , so onto the final list prices ok you now have an idea of my taste , what do you think they will cost ?
seeing your taste , about a million .
thats not too bad i said .
each she finished and thats only the ones for the loos , add a few noughts for the rest .
its only money i squeaked , so over the next few weeks we took to the skies and visited all the art museums , galleries and collectors that we could cajole into opening their portals to us , and slowly a style of my own formed in my mind recognisable ism .
if it had ever graced the top of a chocolate box , or been inside a calendar i wanted it .
not for me the obscure or ugly , i wanted what i , and my family and friends would recognise , and the more people that i talked too in swore secrecy about it , the more i realised that this project was going to have world wide implications , and if i got it wrong i could be fleeced something rotten , but , as the saying goes , even the longest journey starts with a single step , so after a few words with hyacinth , we took that step metaphorically speaking , into the very exclusive cul de sac art gallery , knightsbridge , london sw3 .
hyacinth , who is arguably the most terrifying person that i know although she can also be a pussy cat but thats for another time positively quaked in her pradas at the mere mention of miss antoinettes name , apparently miss a was quite young for her age ?
, but knew the business inside out and back to front , aparantly there were no flies on her , perhaps the lady prefered zips ! , and if there was one single person that could keep all the wolves , jackals and opportunists at bay for me , it was her , and her sense of humour was legendary she thought not .
the only slight problem was that apparently miss antoinette was not for hire , so i thought a spot of the michaels charm might do the trick .
breena and i , with james , kurt and pierre in the background , presented ourselves outside the window of the emporium at the appointed hour , and we were just in time to see the rear elevation of a very sleek figure setting an abstract watercolour , by someone who was having a mental breakdown at the time , on a display easel .
it looked hideous the painting , not the figure so obviously it would cost a small fortune .
once the figure was fully satisfied that the painting was just so , she stepped back to admire it , and sensing that we were on the other side of the armoured glass , turned , and instantly converted it into frosted glass , what a stare .
not a muscle on her square chiselled face so much as flinched , but her half closed beady eyes bore straight through the inch thick glass , through my eyes , and straight into my soul .
normally i would have cowered away in fear , but what the hell i thought this must be miss a , time for the charm offensive .
i looked at the painting , then back at her and signalled for her to rotate the painting 45 degrees .
not a flicker of emotion showed on the creaseless face , completely devoid of any laughter , or other lines , but still she rotated it .
i shook my head and signalled her to rotate it a further 45 degree .
ordered compliance , and again my head shook .
without further bidding , and still without a glimmer of emotion , she rotated it the final 45 degrees , and i raised my hand to my chin , and started to rub it thoughtfully , then eureka , it hit me .
i put a startled look on my face , a finger in the air like a marionette , and signalled her to reverse the painting , front to back .
after complying with my request i clapped in glee , gave her the thumbs up , and mouthed perfect i want it , and was about to make my way towards the door when she suddenly erupted into fits of uncontrolled hysterical laughter , fell against the window and slid unceremoniously down it .
leaving kurt outside to guard the cul de sac we were eventually invited inside the gallery by a very upset assistant , she had never heard those strange sounds emerging from her boss before .
finally an almost back to normal miss antoinette emerged empty handed from the window display , and i asked her where my painting was .
you were serious ?
she spluttered , between giggles , its horrendous .
i know i replied , but i have the perfect place to hang it , where i can study it in quiet contemplation every day , and perhaps even growing to love it .
in a conservatory ?
she queried .
no , on the back of my toilet door .
that was it , she was off again , but finally we started to communicate in more than just sign language , and i decided to have a look around before i mentioned the c word consultancy .
half an hour later we were out back rubbernecking through some lesser pieces when the buzzer rang , her twelve oclock seemed to be fifteen minutes late .
she had assumed that the miscreant appointee was a no show , and had just dispatched her assistant for an early lunch , so miss a went and answered the now urgent summons herself .
it was indeed the twelve oclock , returning for a second view of a particularly nice piece that was now on a display easel , centre stage , in anticipation of the sale , and after half heartedly apologising for his tardiness he gave a perfunctory glance at the painting and asked to use the facilities , and disappeared inside .
kurt , who hailed from blackpool , had been taken on by mr a to strengthen his close protection squad .
he had done some time in the military police , and then underwent retraining by civilian para military contractors , to protect hi value advisers in various war torn countries .
whilst he was in the body guard division he was happy to take their silly money , but then they asked him to transfer to a black ops team as usual there is no such thing as a free lunch and sensibly he quickly relocated to spain , that was the destination of the first vacant seat out of the airport , not even pausing to pack a bag , and after a surreptitious phone call to the colonel he was now innocently propping up the wall beneath the street sign downton walk cul de sac , blissfully unaware that the said walk , with the appropriately named art gallery in it , was now downton walk period .
following bomb damage during the blitz , the building at the end of the cul de sac was obliterated , and over the ensuing years a very popular short cut developed .
many years late the local council recognised this , and when granting permission for a new block of flats they made it a stipulation that the short cut should remain , but forgot to change the existing sign at the other end , and so as he rested against the wall , sydney slipped un noticed behind him into the gallery .
after a short while of trying to blend in with the brickwork kurt noticed a car pull up on the double yellow lines at the end of the walk , so it took a few moments for the two men in the front of the car to realise that he was there , and a few more to realise what he most like was the filth , so they did what came naturally to them in these sorts of circumstances , and panicked .
first the driver gave four long blasts on the cars horn , which certainly got kurts attention , and he hoisted himself from the wall and eyeballed the occupants , and it was stalemate until three muffled shots and an explosion emanated from within the gallery .
on hearing the shots kurt put two and two together and went for his gun , but the passenger pushed the snout of a sawn off shotgun that he had prepared earlier through the open window and pulled both triggers .
if he had been more experienced in the ways of gun lore , and realised that he had the slight advantage here , he would have taken a moment to aim the weapon more accurately , but no , and kurt received the contents of both barrels between his ankles and knees , and he slid down the wall , but his training and buckets of adrenalin kicked in , and as he sat against the wall he continued drawing his weapon and pointed it in the direction of the passenger , but he was groping around in his pockets trying to find replacement cartridges it always pays to come well prepared ! ! !
, the more pressing danger was coming from the driver , who , unfortunately for him was left handed .
he had pulled a huge browning automatic from his trousers belt , and turned to join in the fun , but found his accomplices bulk was in the way , so he leaned forward against the steering wheel and hoisted the weapon in front of him and started to point it in the general direction of the fuzz .
kurt , seeing him perfectly silhouetted against the specsavers window opposite , corrected his aim he certainly didnt need to go to specsavers and although he had always been taught to aim for the central body mass first , as he couldnt see it through the passengers bulk , he instead put two well aimed rounds half an inch in front of his left ear .
by this time the passenger had recovered a handful of cartridges from the bottom of his trouser pocket , and was trying to stuff them into the shotgun , so erring on the side of caution he adjusted his aim slightly and repeated the process , it would have been just his luck for the car door to have blocked his bullets .
he then leaned back against the wall , looked down at his legs , and was sick over what remained of his giorgio armani trousers .
..
when the urgent sound of the car horn reached the twelve oclockers ears he was three quarters of the way through snorting a line of coke for dutch courage , off of the marble worktop , so his brain was not in the perfect shape to interpret what it fully meant .
he knew that things had turned pear shaped , and should get the hell out of there , but he had watched too many cops and robbers on the television and reached for the revolver in his open brief case .
sydney was from a fairly well to do family that had fallen on hard times , and he started to seek solace first in expensive malts , then lager , and finally as he approached rock bottom , illegal substances , and when his habit finally outstripped his wallet , his dealer of choice just knew someone who needed a hand with a job .
no he wasnt a plumber he was tea leaf thief , with a taste for art .
what he needed was a posh geezer with a bit of class , and some fancy threads , to get into an art gallery and case the joint , which initially was all that was required of him to clear his debt , but when it became clear that security was such that your normal run of the mill villain would not get through the front door , his job description changed .
at first he refused flatly , and then as more and more freebie cocaine disappeared up his nose it didnt seem such a problem , and finally , when it was agreed that his cut would come in the form of white power , and lots of it , he was in , but when sydney burst out of the toilet , gun in hand , he found that whilst within , the situation without , had changed drastically .
when we heard the new visitor request to use the loo breena and i wandered through to have a look at the painting that he was so interested in , and james and pierre instinctively moved to the door .
breena quickly lost interest in the painting and started to return to the rear of the gallery , just as the horn sounded , and sydney burst forth .
pierre , my first sergent , wanted something a bit more challenging than being in my uniformed section so he brow beat his friend david into training him up for plain cloths , but this was his first probationary outing into the real world , and he forgot two very basic points , one never go to a gunfight with only a knife he had not yet received permission to carry a concealed weapon , and two let the dog see the bone , ie james see sydney , and he instictively lunged towards the gunman completely blocking jamess view of him .
sydney , in his drug induced haze saw james and pierre blocking his escape route , but to him that was a minor point as he was now in his element , so he stopped , calmly stood sideways , as he had seen a hundred times on telly and in his video games , and using a single handed grip , lifted the revolver up , thumbing the hammer back as he did so , pointed it at the charging pierre , and pulled the trigger , and pierres throat disappeared in a fountain of froth .
james , who was frantically trying to get a line of sight on the gunman , dispassionately noted pierres problem , and in a macabre way he was relieved as pierre dropped to the floor , trying to staunch the flow of blood , and he got his first clear view of the gunman and his weapon .
he quickly noted that the gunman was obviously high , which , in his mind made him even more dangerous , and that his weapon was an antique looking , very heavy .45 calibre revolver .
it would have a huge recoil , and once it had been pulled back down into line again , the gunman would then have to re cock it , probably using two hands , before it could be discharged again , but as he started to bring his own weapon up , the .455 webley fosbery automatic revolver rocked slightly , and was quickly back in line with jamess head .
perhaps he might still have trouble re cocking the vintage weapon james desperately thought , as sydney pulled the trigger , and in the time it took for the slug to travel up the barrel , and cover the distance between it and jamess right eye , a part of his soon to be decimated brain noted the zigzag groves on the side of its cylinder , and thought oh dear , its an automatic revolver , ive heard of them , but never actually seen one before , or words to that effect .
col. vg fosbery conceived this unusual weapon in the late 19th century , and by 1901 webley scott were producing them in limited numbers , and whilst they had a few of the advantages of a conventional automatic reduced re coil higher rate of fire they were complicated , and so didnt stand up well to the rigors of war .
although never accepted into the military , several young cavalry officers purchased them as their personal weapon , and this particular one was brought back from the great war ww1 by a very grey haired young officer .
it was then passed on through the generations , with virtually no maintenance , until it was stolen by an opportunist burglar , along with a beautifully crafted 12 bore double barrelled shotgun .
they were then sold on for fifty quid , and the fosbery was then liberally coated in penetrating and car engine oil , until it seemed to work ok , and the barrel of the shotgun was sawn off and its hand carved stock decimated , and was now residing in the car outside .
the expected return on the painting that they were trying to steal was about 5.000 , split three ways if they were lucky the two guns would probably have fetched twice that much from an unscrupulous collector .
at the sound of the first shot i turned , just in time to see blood erupting from the remains of pierres throat , and then jamess brain blast over the glass door behind him as the second shot rang out .
the gunman was actually smiling as he turned and pointed the revolver at breena , her only crime standing between him and the painting , so he shot her , and arterial blood gushed from her chest .
the three shots came so fast that people outside thought it was a machine gun that was being used , but he had not finished yet , he saw miss antoinette and i stood to the side of the painting , and slowly turned and levelled the revolver again .
instinctively i moved to cover her as he calmly closed one eye and sighted along the barrel at a point between my eyes , and i knew that he couldnt miss , and he gently , almost lovingly , squeezed the trigger , and then several unexpected thing happened almost simultaneously .
first , due to the lack of proper maintenance the by now heavily carbond up barrel and workings of this museum piece malfunctioned , caused in no small part by the use of winter grade motor oil instead of gun oil , and i saw , as i gazed back over the fore and rear sights , and into his pin prick of an iris , the barrel explode , and part of his hand , complete with two fingers , fly off in one direction .
the chamber , with the jammed round forcing it on , shot back , and either due to metal fatigue or by the damage caused by the explosion , there was nothing to stop it , and it careered into his face , decimating the bridge of his nose and embedding itself in his brain , and then , just for good measure one or both of the remaining rounds sympathetically exploded .
as his head literally erupted in front of me , my brain , or whatever part of my being that controlled such things said thats it enough is enough and switched me off .
i didnt just faint , my whole being , spirit , mind , essence or whatever it was called shut down .
i was now just a collection of bones and organs held together by an outer wrapper called skin .
fortunately an insignificant little box situated somewhere deep within , kept me breathing , but everything else just shut down , and a little while later a police sergeant succinctly described my condition to a detective as originally i thought that his lights were off , but somebody was at home then realised that the fuse had blown .
following the demise of sydney , miss antoinettes austere upbringing laughter had been a punishable offence came to pierres rescue , she may not have known how to dress a dolly but she did know how to perform a traciotomy using pierres super tool 300 clipped to his belt , and a ball point pen from his jackets inside pocket .
first she quickly checked in passing that i was ok , no serious injuries , so she rolled me quickly into the recovery position , and then it was up skirt and she was straddling pierre , and stabbing what was left of his throat with a razor sharp blade from his must have fashion accessory .
even the pliers came in handy to pull the jammed innards out of the barrel of the pen after first breaking a nail on it at the first attempt and pushing the said barrel into the hole .
it was crude , but it kept him alive until the paramedics arrived .
chapter 29 my inert body was quickly transported to the nearby royal brompton hospital , and quickly they conducted every known test ever devised by the medical profession that related to the heart and kidneys .
no faults found , so it was back into the ambulance apparently i was renting it by the hour and over to the royal marsden , where they quickly confirmed that i was not riddled with cancer , so it was back into my home from home ambulance , and i was half way to the lister hospital before some eagle eyed paramedic noticed that i was not a female , so their world famous gynaecology department was probably not going to pronounce me pregnant , and then the driver had a brain wave , perhaps it was all in my mind , lets take him to the loony bin , sorry the bethlem royal hospital , where i lay in a catatonic stupor for a week , until tests proved conclusively that i was intrinsic , in other words they didnt know what had caused my fuse to blow , but did i give a jot no , in fact i didnt know what a jot was or a give or a but or anything else for that matter .
wherever the part of me that distinguished me from a cabbage was situated , it had completely shut down , and even if someone had miraculously gotten through to it , they would have found that there was nothing available to translate it into usable information , they had a better chance of getting a response from a brick wall if they shouted at in fluent gobbledy gook .
after that profound pronouncement , all and sundry in the field of psychiatry then descended on my inert frame , and it was open season for every wild theory and half baked test ever dreamt up , with some even muttering incantations under their breath as they carried them out , although robin and alice did draw the line at cattle prods , and finally they unanimously decided on a case conference , and for over eight hours the great and good in the profession theorised and debated every aspect of my problem , and then finally , just before the restaurant closed its doors for the evening , they reached a unanimous decision i was living proof that man was descended from cabbages not apes .
with that robin and alice had me transferred to the peace and tranquillity of a world famous sanatorium high in the swiss alps , although it might as well have been a b b at the end of gatwick airports main runway , i couldnt hear a thing , and certainly didnt know what a peace , or a tranquillity was .
after six weeks they then came to the conclusion that what this world famous sanatorium was famous for was its pricing structure , anywhere else in the free world its board of directors would have been arrested and put in front of a firing squad years ago , so finally i was taken home to el campo , and what do i remember of my flight of fancy , absolutely nothing , unless you consider a big black void something whats a black ?
whats a void ?
and from then on i apparently had round the clock care from every ist in the book , nutritionists , cardiologists , and therapists of every persuasion .
i had endocrinologists , dental hygienists , histologists , in fact the only one that i didnt partake of their services were the pathologists .
as my body was now becoming a shadow of its former self i was now also regularly being beaten , thumped , squeezed and twisted by a gang of masochists , which were collectively known as physiotherapists , but as you can guess i never felt a thing , in fact a dentist did two fillings without any anaesthetic , and i never flinched a muscle normally when they said this wont hurt i would threaten to grab hold of their sphericals and say you and me both .
it was three months after my shut down when alice found the right ist , he had a small practice in the now slowly coming back to life pueblo , and she saw the writing on the wall , holistic therapist .
you either believe that they are charlatans , only skilled in the practice of parting you from your hard earned cash , or they can work medical miracles without the need to slice you open or fill you full of toxic substances .
fortunately alice was one of the latter and pushed kia through the door .
francisco , please call me paco , welcomed her in fluent spanish , but that wasnt too much of a problem , she was well into the final few discs of rosetta stone , and because business was slack he was able to give her a seeing to straight away , if that was alright .
pacos wife , alba , took kia off to play and he led her into his treatment room .
everything was subdued , the soothing aroma of joss sticks filled her nostrils , and a relaxation cd started to calm her down .
alice had always considered herself calm she did i didnt , but after an hour and a half she felt like a new woman please , no references to burt , but what had really worked the magic for her were his fingers .
at the end of the massage and reflexology he had placed them , in a set sequence , first on her feet , then her hands and finally on her head , just spreading his fingers over certain pulse points and holding them gently in a light grip , and this is where the sceptics think they are being ripped off , as he quietly sat there , eyes closed for a few minute , and alice could feel first her muscles and tendons relax , and then her brain became one with all the other energies within her being , and she was totally at peace with her inner self , and the rest of the world for the sceptics among you she had just had a quick nap .
once she returned to reality and slowly put on her blouse and jeans thank god she was wearing clean undies she thought , first she thought of kia , but reassuring laughter came from down the corridor , then she thought how much .
if this had been switzerland then it would now be a quick trip to the bank to arrange for an overdraft , but no this was spain , oh no , nothing , it was time for my comida lunch anyway , lets say that it was a complimentary first treatment , and led her towards the room from whence her infants giggles had so recently emanated , but now only the ominous sound of utter silence emerged .
as they entered paco and albas private rooms , alice found out the reason for her sons unaccustomed silence , alba was shovelling spoon full after spoon full of lentejas lentil soup down his mouth .
to say that he was a fussy eater was like saying that michelangelo was a bit of a painter and decorator , but he never even paused to acknowledge her arrival .
another bowl was set down and she was sat in front of it .
first her eyes surveyed the creation , and her lip started to curl , but then a delicate aroma reached her nostrils , so she thought if kia likes it , perhaps a soupcon , and after that one spoonful she knew that she had just met marcels equal , and then halfway through her second bowl she remembered kurt , he was waiting outside for her , in an un seasonal downpour .
after his encounter with the wrong end of the shotgun kurt recovered well from his injuries , only to fall foul of the hospital .
he contracted mrsa , or methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus for short , and the doctors were soon advising him that his foot should come off , but kurt was having none of it it was from just below the knee , or nothing , he would have much better prospects of future employment with a trans tibial prosthetic leg often referred to as a bk '' or below the knee prosthesis in the prosthetic industry yawn than with a block of wood for a foot not quite an accurate description , but he believed it was close enough , but after the amputation , recovery , convalescence and fitting of a top of the range jobby not a technical expression , on full pay , he was not sacked so he didnt have to look for a new job , what a waste of a perfectly healthy lower leg , and as the bionic man as he was now called by all and sundry but usually out of ear shot , he quickly regained his former dexterity .
first he started back at the bottom again , guarding the laundry , past the pets pooper scoopers , and finally back to body guarding family , hence he now found himself standing outside some quacks clinic , in the pouring rain , after mrs carter had disappeared inside and he had verified that it was the only entrance almost two miserable hours ago .
suddenly he was dragged inside , covered in fleecy white towels , and plonked down beside the family , and instructed to consume a bowl of soup , with bits in it a full english breakfast usually stretched his culinary expertise by the quacks broad .
perhaps paco and alba werent that bad after all .
fifteen minutes later , as they all tucked into home made paella , alice , between mouthfuls , asked paco what he thought about her fathers condition , and kurt was mortified , confidential information , but as his mouth was full of yellow rice , snails , squid , and some unpronounceable things , he politely refrained from speaking , after all , in reality it was the main topic of conversation in every bar and caf in the pueblo , so the top secret secret was fairly common knowledge to everyone , and pacos solution let me get my hands on him .
in fact twice he had presented himself at the gates of el campo , but had almost been shot both times carlos was a sceptic as well , but an hour later the five of them entered el campo main gates , and not a single shot rang out .
after handing a very contented , and sound asleep kia over to inma , she led her new friends into her fathers room .
the staff gymnasiums changing room had been situated next to the medical centre , and had now been converted into my new sleeping quarters , or rather my catatonic stupor , open bracket intrinsic close bracket , quarters , but did i give a jot , of course not , and neither did i know what a jot was , or etc , etc .
despite freyjas protestations she was now on permanent loan from the hotel hospital , along with a gaggle of other nurses , as supervising enfemera nurse , and was another sceptic alba placed her joss sticks around the room and a relaxation cd was soon sending out its subliminal message , and paco quietly administered his ministrations , but in the end he felt none of the energy flows that always came through his fingertips , it had never happened to him before , although as he dejectedly left the room he felt a slight tingling in one of his fingers when he touched it with his thumb , so he paused , touched it again , but nothing must be a touch of cramp .
inside my black void , as he applied his gentle pressure , for just a few seconds a slight dark blue hue appeared at one edge , but as i didnt know what an edge was , or a blue , or a second , or even a just , it didnt bother me one little jot whats a jot ? .
paco wasnt a quitter , so he said that he would come back maana and try again , and good as his word he did , and the tingling was slightly stronger , and my dark blue edge lasted for a few more seconds whats a more ?
, and as he persevered , over the weeks that followed the sensations increased , and my dark blue edge remained a little longer , until finally , well into his third week he touched my head and found the connection from his last visit still there , and my body gave an almost imperceptible shudder , and relaxed ever so slightly , and if freyja had not been watching me like a hawk which she did almost every time paco appeared it would have gone unnoticed by everyone but paco and who would have ever believed that charlatan , and inside my black void the blue edge ever so slightly eased the black to one side , allowing a scrabble tile with the letter q on it to slide in the gap .
of course i didnt recognise it as it was back to front and upside down , but it was a start , and although i didnt know what a q was , or a scrabble , from little acorns do great oak trees grow .
from then on paco visited me twice , sometimes even three times a day , and not only during the day , when he couldnt sleep , then in the early hours of the morning as well , most of the time just sitting there cradling my head in his fingertips , and freyja , along with most other people could see my relaxation improving , and then the inevitable happened , a family crisis and paco had to go away for three days , so freyja , that great disbeliever , asked if she could help by standing in for him .
paco was sceptical , it wasnt like applying for a job , you can not have on the job training , you had to have a calling for it , but he gave her a quick test drive anyway .
freyja sat as she had seen him sit at least a hundred times before , and went to place her fingers around my head but found that they had a will of their own , and suddenly she felt a surge of energy come up from her fingertips , through her whole being , and out of her now open mouth , leaving a vile taste behind , and for ten minutes she sat transfixed at the head of my bed , then she heaved , and was violently sick over my pillow , but her fingers never faltered , and inside my head the dark blue hue slowly changed to pink , and started to push the black void even faster to one side , and yet more scrabble tiles started to tumble in , it was starting to get very crowded in there , what is a crowd ?
but i did like the colour pink .
paco realised that freyja was his sole partner , what he lacked she had , and by the time he returned early from the family crisis after all it was only his mothers funeral , it wasnt as if she was in a position to miss him , i was moving my fingers and toes slightly .
message understood , and from then on one or the other , or even both of them were on one of my extremities , and inside by head , foot , finger , or wherever my sole , or being , or sub conscious level was , and things started to slowly sort themselves out .
paco reckoned that deep down , the most embarrassing thing happening to me was that i became incontinent , and so my first significant improvement was i had bladder control , maybe not a significant event for most people , but to those around me it was a gigantic leap , whats a leap ? , oh yes a big jump , but whats a jump ?
and then paco went against the mainstream specialists and declared my room a noisy area .
up until now everyone crept around me , talking in hushed whispers and generally treating me as though i could hear something , he wanted me to hear something anything so my room became central station , everyone and anyone could clatter in , chatter away , and if they knocked something over , even better , and then mr smith from canada aka charlie had an idea , out came my old wheelchair , and after dusting it down and fitting a heath robinson device to stop my head bouncing around i was out into the big wide world , and once they placed reflective sun glasses on me , hiding my glazed eyes , everyone wanted to stop the procession and have a one way chat with me , then finally , just before he disappeared off in his business jet with no visible markings on it he took me for a swim , although not very far , as the tubes and cables werent waterproof , but that was soon sorted .
i didnt know what water was , but if felt very nice all the same .
on the whole i continued to ever so slightly improve , but occasionally the inside of my head would go into absolute turmoil , and quite a number of ists were getting concurned , so i was wired into yet more devices which pumped small doses of sedative into me when i started to get agitated , which could be at absolutely anytime .
it might be when i was in bed , when someone walked into my room , or whilst i was being wheeled down a corridor , something , somewhere seemed to trigger a reaction , and according to them it wasnt very nice , but all that i knew was that i was back in that black void , what is a oh forget it , you get the idea .
almost five months after going into my stupor , paco and freyjas hard graft started to pay off big time , and even the worst of sceptics thought that there might just be a glimmer of light at the end of my tunnel , and this verily worried them , the attacks for want of a better word , were increasing , and the general consensus of opinion was now that if i suddenly regained full consciousness , and all my memories flooded back at once , it would either put me back into my catatonic stupor permanently , or even worse for whom my heart would give out , and they doubted that my new machines could cope , so like the president of the good old us of a , i now had a follower , but unlike the presidents follower , who had all the nuclear holocaust codes in his briefcase , mine was a nurse who had a syringe full of gunge , that would put me back in my black hole temporarily , and hopefully stop my brain from frying itself , and finally it was put to the test .
freyja was doing her thing with her hands after of course warming them first on my head , alice was sat at the foot of my bed stroking my leg , and now not so little mark , who was visiting with robin and his mummy , found a switch on a redundant bit of machinery , and he clicked it on , and he clicked it off , and he clicked it on , and he clicked it off , and continued doing it until he had happily converted everyone within earshot into potential homicidal maniacs , and alice was the first to crack .
will you .
she started to say , but the grunt and glare from freyja stopped her mid sentence , with each click freyja had felt something different coming through her fingertips , and at the same time i gave a twitch .
she signalled alice to encourage mark to continue , but now that he had aunties approval it wasnt such fun , in fact it was no fun at all , but one look at her face and he was flicking away like a trojan , she had felt the twitches in my leg and the next one to crack was me .
i went rigid , my eyes flew open , and if it had been a scene from a horror movie , demons and goollies would be seen pouring from freyjas wide open mouth , and then her hands were physically thrown from my head and she was flung back against the wall behind her by an invisible force , and i then turned my head , looked mark in the eyes and shouted will somebody stop that obnoxious little brat from making that racket .
please dont get me wrong , i usually love children , especially with roast potatoes and broccoli , and from the foot of my bed i heard alice say that little brat is your grand son , i noticed that she didnt deny his status as i turned my head to face her , but before i could say another word blood erupted from her blouse , and her head started to explode , and then i was safely back in my black void , freyja had rebounded off the wall and into the sterile kidney dish , with the pre loaded syringe in it , and even in her dazed state her training took over and she expertly rammed the needle into my cannula , just in the nick of time .
now that i was safely under their control , experts rushed in from all over the globe , and took over my consciousness level , and over the next week or so , first manually , then automatically , as more sophisticated machines were drafted it , they first bought me to a semi conscious state and talked me through my problems , and then as things sorted themselves out inside i was able to remain awake for quite a period of time , until my one big demon dragged me back again , and nothing that they could say or do could coax it out into the open , and this is when i hit the headlines around the world again , not once but twice .
it was doctor morag mchaimishs turn to chat me up , and , as with the rest of the clan , she had to ask me a trigger question during some irrelevant chit chat , to observe my response , and she slipped in its a pity about pierres vocal cords , and waited .
pierre had survived , due in no small part to miss as quick actions , although he would never speak again , and would always breath through a tube in what was left of his throat , and absentmindedly i said yes , but at least he is happily married now , although its a pity it rained on their grand occasion , and that got her attention , it was still early days and she knew that no one had mentioned anything about his wedding , and even she didnt know about the rain .
how do you know that it rained she asked , sensing that something had changed inside my head .
maria told me when she and carlos returned from his wedding to francesca at the stud farm when , she asked .
let me see , normally she calls in for a chat mid morning to bring me up to speed on what is going on around the place , and then to say good night about eight in the evening , but as their air lingus flight from jfk was late she popped in about eleven oclock to tell me all about the wedding , so that must be seventy five days ago .
to say that she was gob smacked was an understatement and quickly she asked maria to come in , and to bring her diary with her .
maria confirmed the one way conversation with me , as i had lain in my catatonic stupor , but on checking her diary i was one day out but never mind , i was close enough , then maria re checked her diary entry , no , andrew is right , i made the note of our return the following day .
as more things began to drop into place inside wherever it was , they realised that not only was there a little box inside me keeping me breathing , there was also a very large battery powered tape recorder whirring away 24 7 , and around the world relatives and friends had renewed hope for their loved ones that were in a coma , and then a week later morag blushed world wide .
her knickers got in a twist , literally , and as she squirmed to get them sorted out , very lady likely , i asked her if they were the same ones that had given her trouble two days before all the specialists had gone their separate ways , and left me in the care of paco , the blue ones , with a little red rosebud in the waist band .
morag was mortified , it was a tuesday so she was indeed wearing the terrible blue ones but they were very expensive so she wasnt going to give up on them quite yet , and then she almost fainted , she had gone back to scotland on a thursday , flights were usually cheaper on a thursday , but indeed two days before , they had been up to their usual tricks , and trying to disappear up where the sun dont shine , and as there was no one about except for andrew laying un moving , head pointing to the ceiling , she had quickly ducked behind a machine , hiked up her harris tweed and sorted them out .
even if andrew had been awake there was no way that he could have seen her miscreant underwear , and then after rather embarrassingly informing her peers they delved deeper , but not into morags undergarments , and realised that my battery powered tape recorder had a camcorder attachment , which had the ability to travel out of body and float around , which again cheered up all the loved ones around the world , but it terrified my two blonde nurses , but their secrets were safe , neither were natural blondes .
it also saved everyone having to update me on the happenings around the homestead , as within a week i could recall everything ever told to me , warts and all .
finally , two weeks later , and innumerable case conferences , before , during and after dinner , they were starting to nod their heads when it was whispered perhaps this is as good as it gets , at least he has a bit of a life now , but i wanted all my life back , i wanted to fly the lady s again , but not with an ambulance under one wing just in case .
as i became more and more conscious of my surroundings i quickly remembered pacos instrumental part in my recovery , but he had now been effectively side lined by the experts with fancy letters behind their names , but eventually , when all these eminent figures finally all but gave up , it was paco that i turned to .
one of the first things that paco did , once he started on me , was ask alice if he could borrow rosetta stone , but she was the wrong way round , english to spanish , so alice treated him to an early birthday present , and his mind was like a sponge , it soaked up the dvds , and by the time he , alice , robin , freyja and i sat down for our very own case conference he was cooking on gas , and finally we prised out of him his final solution .
he reckoned that my black void had been forced further and further into a corner , as more and more gremlins were pulled out , and was now making a last ditch stand , with the one major thing that had finally pushed me over the top .
the experts had covered all my known traumas , and successfully exorcized them , the deaths of sheila , breena and james , the accident , george and millies tragic demise , my coming into all that dosh apparently it can be a traumatic experience to some people , my kidnap attempt , the mid atlantic rescue , the drug dealers and all the other little incidents in my new life , but none of them could shake free my one last demon , so paco devised a plan he would hypnotise me .
that was the plan i thought , i had been hypnotised by the best , but no , he wanted to hypnotise me into hypnotising myself , spooky .
he knew it was a desperate attempt , and it could undo all the excellent work that the proffs had done , but i was adamant i wanted a proper life , so i had long talks with robin and alice .
re wrote my will and gave it to vicente , and after saying my good byes just in case i lay back in my favourite recliner and prepared myself for the worst and hoped for the best , and i knew at that moment how a convict felt at execution time .
first paco wanted to try and get me to find the camcorder and use it to tell him , through me , what it saw , and that part was easy .
i was out like a light and was quickly relaying to paco what it saw , and finally we spotted the void , and as i approached it , it was as though i was gazing into hades itself .
i reached out to touch it but it was as if it was protected by an electric fence , wired directly into the national grid , and i cried out in pain , but as i probed its defences , under the guidance of a very worried paco , i finally managed to get a finger inside , then two , and finally my hand , but the whole experience was taking its toll on me in real time .
i was shaking violently , screaming , and sweat was pouring off me as robin , alice and freyja held me down , but even before we started the hypnosis we all knew that this was going to be a one off attempt , and it might very well end badly , so we all hung on , them on the outside literally me on the inside metaphorically .
finally , just as i was about to give up , my fingers touched something , and it fought back , but i held on and yanked it out of the void , and again i switched off , but not all the way , and for a week my sole , being , or whatever , fought with that box , and finally i managed to prise it open and looked inside , and that is when i was placed on a life support machine in the real world .
another week passed but finally the machines told everyone that i was slowly winning , and starting to come to terms with my demon , and my systems started to function again , until finally i just opened my eyes and smiled at robin .
it was his shift , and it was two oclock in the morning , and very scientifically he asked well , do you know what it was ?
as i lay there , i closed my eyes again , and watched my video camera re wind and then leave my body and circle round me , i was on the bridge of the lady s , dressed in a flak jacket and kevlar helmet , and watched as david turned to me with a quizzical look on his face , and i nodded , and he quietly said engage , and through that single , innocuous gesture ten men boys , and three women died .
all they were doing was trying to feed their families the only way that they knew how , and in all probability no one on the yachts would have gotten seriously hurt if i hadnt intervened , but in the mayhem that followed i did not have the luxury of coming to terms with it , and as time passed , and i was fted as a hero by all and sundry , it got pushed further and further to the back of my mind , but sub sub sub consciously it was never forgotten until that day in the gallery when my mind was pushed just a step too far .
the experts quickly put the label of ptsd or post traumatic stress disorder , for long , on my problem and left it in the hands of their minions to sort out , and went too far distant lands to recover from their stress at having to deal with me , which in almost all cases involved sandy beaches and or luxury cruise liners , although one , morag , only paid a quick visit to her local m s and purchased a set of matching blue undies , she didnt want to spoil her tried and tested routine but then the label fell off and my brain started to fry .
freyja went way above her pay grade and gave me an arm full of the gunge , and waited for them all to return .
what happened was that i had started to have conversations with people , not normally a problem , but within a couple of days my room was crowded , and i was holding individual conversations with each person , all at the same time .
it was when i was describing the look on my fathers face to freyja , when he had almost dropped me when he had tried to lift me out of my cot in the nursing home for the first time , and then started to get a blinding headache that she acted , something was obviously not quite right .
finally they all reached a decision again , their first one was of course right , but after that last block had been dislodged my brain purged itself , just like when you de frag a computer hard drive , only different .
as everybody gets older , there is only so much room in a brain so it compresses unwanted , or un necessary information and dumps it in blocked up , redundant alleys aka we forget it .
my new problem was that my pills , potions , traumas , or whatever , had caused my brain to re boot and then start to recover everything , from every blind alley , and it was starting to overload .
if something wasnt done , and soon , it would go critical and quite literally fry itself .
following more case conferences , conducted in every corner of the world by conference calls , a pill was conceived that would drop a charging rhino in its tracks , but would only slow my brain down to a crawl , in other words i would be almost normal , perhaps only holding two or three conversations at a time , but with every up there is a down , and the down to these pills was that they would start eating my insides in a very short while , so a cunning plan was hatched .
first freyja calmly drew off four large phials of my blood , almost an arm full , and placed them in a box , the box , which was in reality a shock proof , vibration proof , temperature controlled transportation receptacle specially designed for its one and only journey , was carefully handed to my fleetest of foot employee , who took off like a whippet .
down the empty corridors and through the open doors he sped , not even pausing as he hurdled the miniature railway track which was specially devoided of railways and launched himself into twinkle , and aaron had her airborne before the winged messenger had landed on the wilton carpet .
not that he was airborne for long , aaron set her down , none too gently beside dingbat , with natasha sat in the cockpit , and the throttle half way up the quadrant .
dingbat lived up to her name she was a good ten knots faster than any other hunter that i had .
although all my hunters were identical , they were all different ! ! !
each one having an idiosyncrasy all of its own , and their pilots learned to love or hate their own particular aircrafts gift .
topsy took the box from the fleet of foot that leapt from the back of twinkle whilst it was still airborne , and slotted it into the specially converted drop tank , clipped the door shut and nodded to natasha , who released the brakes and finished pushing the throttle forward , and dingbat leapt forward , the wing neatly catching topsy behind the ear , that will teach him to pick fred over me she thought , im half the size of that tank meowwww .
dingbat roared down the runway and was airborne almost before she realised it , so quickly cleaning up the aircraft she let it strut its stuff , not bothering to waste time climbing for altitude , seconds counted .
she had chosen this particular runway as it almost to the inch lined up with her destination one , the only slight problem being , was that it was quite a long way away , and between el campo and andrews favourite free lunch were quite a few houses , schools , high voltage cables and other normal considerations , but this wasnt a normal consideration .
she had done two practice runs , one slowly in twinkle and the other in her own aircraft arabella , but now it was for real , and as she skimmed over schools with all the children outside in the play ground , waving at her , houses and farms with their owners waving at her and under the high voltage cable that spanned a motorway , the top of her fin a metre below the bright orange balls that made the lines visible to vfr aircraft light aircraft navigating by the aa book of the road .
did the traffic mind her blasting the dust off the tops of the trucks with her jet wash , nope , there drivers were standing by the guardia civil officers that had stopped the traffic for her , frantically waving her on .
as she approached the airbase and crossed the threshold of the runway she didnt even bother to put her undercarriage down , it was a really , really long runway .
it had been constructed at the height of the cold war to take american b52 bombers it was rumoured that b52s needed assistance from the curvature of the earth just to get airborne , and about half way down give or take a foot or two she lowered the undercarriage , set dingbat firmly down , and slid to a halt beside fred .
she had been ever so slightly tempted to misjudge it and squash her , but she wasnt absolutely certain that dingbat would survive the clash of the titans .
fred raced in well ran very fast , unclipped the door , removed the box and leapt well ran very fast again over to a man in a space suit , who wasnt there , who took it from her and disappeared into the bowels of an aircraft that didnt exist .
the last sr 71 flew in 1999 , before being de activated , but unless she was mistaken this looked to be a very active one , and there wasnt a spec of rust on its titanium .
a refuelling tanker was valiantly trying to keep ahead of the consumption curve of the two p w j58 p4 engines that were ticking over , as the little hunter skidded to a halt , smoke billowing from its brakes , and as the box was transferred into the hands of a rso reconnaissance systems officer that never was , it was the signal for the fuel delivery operative to disconnect his hose , replace the fuel cap , close the panel and vacate the area , but he had only completed the first three items on his check list when the two huge engines above him went into afterburner and he and fred were blown unceremoniously off the runway , quickly followed by a flaying refuelling hose .
natasha thought this was all very amusing , until her aircraft was caught in the maelstrom , and dingbat weather cocked around 180 and almost became airborne in the jet wash , and the avon wasnt even switched on .
her story from then on was that she had flown the hunter back onto the ground , using its manual controls , cwiky she thought this is almost as exciting as the ride to the space station .
the sr 71 that wasnt stayed in afterburner until it met up with a tanker somewhere in the northern hemisphere then continued on until it came to a land mass that everyone lovingly called america , so the pilot slowed it down .
he had learned over his radio that when the president finally signed the cheque for all the broken glass in the government owned greenhouses in portugal , the country would be debt free he had remembered spain but forgot all about portugal , and a message direct from his commander in chief made it clear that any more broken glass and the repairs would be financed out of his pay cheques .
the invisible sr 71 came to a standstill in a very visible public civilian airport , alongside a marine corp mcdonnell douglas tav 8b two seat harrier , and the rso , who had somehow managed to climb out of his space suit , and into his day job flight suit vacated the aircraft and was up the ladder and into the front seat of the jump jet in a flash , clutching the box as if his own life depended on it and according to his commanding officer it did .
the crew chief was close behind him , and yanked out the seat safety pins , and then fell off the ladder as the pilot , major dick head in the back seat got a tad over eager .
as they powered away the rso made the aptly nicknamed pilot aware of two things , first , he wasnt strapped into his armed ejection seat , and second , the ladder was still on the side of the aircraft .
suppose we cant close the hood then , lets hope it doesnt rain , came the laconic reply , as he retracted his birds undercarriage , he didnt bother to comment on the first problem , he was safely strapped into his ejection seat .
as they approached the car park of the destination hospital two things out of the norm happened after he lowered the undercarriage , first the ladder gave up its struggle to hang on , and the top attachment broke loose , but the lower one held momentarily , fortunately stopping it from being swallowed up by the vector thrust engine and converting it into an airborne scrap heap , but it did cause the ladder to pivot out , and then under the belly of the aircraft , from whence came a thud , a strange vibration , and finally the undercarriage light turned red oops .
he was only seconds from the very hard surface of the car park , so he made a quick decision he was famous for these , hence his nickname and selected the now useless undercarriage up again , and looked for something softer to land on .
just in front of the world famous research hospitals grandiose main entrance he spotted a rose garden on a roundabout , perfect , and slid to halt maybe just a little too high he thought his front seater knew that it was a lot too high and shut down the engine .
three things then happened , one gravity took charge of the aircraft and it belly flopped into the centre of the flower bed , two whilst descending , the remnants of the engines jet wash blasted the roses below , up , up , and away , along with the recently applied natural fertilizer , and then three gravity again took charge and deposited most of the fertilizer back into the open cockpit .
it was then that dick knew that he really was in the brown and sticky , and it smelt terrible .
security guard jesse owens had been named by his father jesse owens the second even though his own name was walter owens .
he was a fan of that famous american athlete and dearly wanted his new son to follow in his namesakes footsteps .
he should have realised that it was wishful thinking when jesse mk2 took four days to crawl into the world , and his mother never even noticed .
jesse had been practicing holding this particular door open for two days , and finally he had mastered the technique of accomplishing the task , without blocking the opening only an hour earlier , so he was left holding it open , just in case .
he had been taken on by the hospital more for his mobile road blocking ability , rather than his mental or physical dexterity , but for the first time in his life he was ahead of the curve .
as the harrier arrived no one could really call it a landing in front of him he knew it was his moment in time , his fifteen minutes of fame , and as everyone else either froze or dove for cover , he surged forward , only to be pulled up short , so he turned , and saw that his hand was still attached to the half wrenched off door handle .
letting go of it he surged forward again and charged down the steps , he had never actually used the steps before , not that he wasnt allowed to , they were just too complicated to use , he always used the wheelchair ramp , but as he reached the road that separated him from his destiny he started to flag , but fortunately his other piston deep within him fired up .
the last time that this had happened was when dim daisys father had found them in her room trying to play strip snap .
although they were both still fully clothed after an hour , he took off just in case .
he finally crossed the road , after first looking left , then right , then left again or was it the other way round , so he did it both ways just in case and leapt onto the concrete bird bath that the pilot had kindly landed beside what bird bath captain head was later heard to say .
only weeks before , his colleagues had persuaded him to enter a cross dressing charity competition , but hed had a nose bleed when he put on the high heeled shoes fortunately for him , as in reality it was a formal affair , but he felt fearless as the ton of concrete wobbled under his unconventional arrival .
peering down into the front cockpit he nodded benignly at the occupant , but he was having a catatonic stupor extrinsic all of his own it was extrinsic because the experts would immediately find out that it had been bought on by that idiot sat behind him , so jesse glanced around the cockpit and spotted the only thing that wasnt bolted to the airframe excluding the occupant , and grabbed it and gave it a firm yank , but it didnt move an inch , again he tried , and this time the occupant was actually lifted bodily out of his seat a good six inches america hasnt been metrificated yet , but still it was attached firmly to the occupant , so balling his fist he thumped it down on the top on his bone dome , and the poor rsos head almost disappeared inside his body , but experts later declared that jesse had snapped him out of his catatonic stupor extrinsic after he had recovered from his concussion , and jesse wrenched the box from the unconscious mans frozen grasp experts also declared that his arms would have in all probability been wrenched out of their sockets if he hadnt been poleaxed in the nick of time , and jesse leapt fearlessly into the cow dung .
pausing only to look both ways , like a demented windscreen wiper , and to pick up a few rose petals his mothers favourite flower he was off again , and blow the ramp , he took the steps two at a time , unfortunately there were an odd number of steps and he nearly came a cropper at the top , but there in front of him were two panes of glass , the one on the left enclosed in a door frame , complete with a half wrenched off handle , and now being held open by an untrained person , it must be for someone very important he though , so fearlessly he charged through the other one .
in front of him now was a lift , with its door held open , and a flight of stairs to the side of it , he knew his destination was two levels up so he charge up the stairs , he hated lifts multiple choice buttons confused him , but after six steps he started to flag , but his second wind kicked in , and it was onward and upward , and time to fulfil his destiny .
as he reached the final step of the marble stair case his twenty fifth wind tried to wheeze its way inside him , but through two open doors he saw his final destination , the reason for his very existence , the reason he drew breath every day nurse bentley , her chassis handed down from on high , and she was standing there looking at him , with her arms open wide , well wide enough to receive the box , she , along with everyone else in the hospital had studiously refrained from making eye contact with him ever since he had first arrived there , apart from the ones that hadnt seen him at all , and then checked the bottom of their shoes after he had passed and that was all the encouragement he needed .
as he reached unheard of speeds excluding the time that his coat had got caught in the door of a bus he charged through the doors , unfortunately there was no glass at their sides so he hoped that he wouldnt upsetting anybody important , and past people that were actually cheering him on , and whistling , and whooping and he veritable flew , until everything went silent .
they , and finally he realised that for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction or in this case stopping distance , the greater his speed , the longer the stopping distance , and usually he had no problem with stopping distances , even in a rush it never took him more than six inches to come to a halt , but as he watched nurse bentleys face go ashen , and she frantically tried to remember the lines to the hail mary , it hit him , he was going to hit her , and despite her natural beauty , the aftermath wasnt going to be a pretty sight , so he locked his legs and fortunately the janitor had got the floor polish watered down to just the right consistency , too slippery and he would have slid through nurse bentley , through the laboratory and through the outside wall , and not slippery enough , he would have completed the same journey , only head first .
he slid to a standstill in front of nurse bentley , whose face was now whiter than her uniform , and thrust the box into her still outstretched arms .
she automatically clutched the proffered box , realized that she wasnt going to die , and in the absolute silence of the occasion , she broke wind .
turning bright crimson she turned and fled into the haematology department , where night and day fused into one .
experts ex a has been , spert a drip under pressure from all around the globe fell into three neat categories , the first group the pessimists said it would take three months , the second group the optimists said it would take one month , and the third group those who regularly talked to the fairies at the bottom of their gardens said it would take two weeks , but six days after jesse had collapsed in the doorway half dead , the doors were flung open and nurse bentley , still in the same uniform , but hopefully with a change of underwear , ceremonially handed a small pot of pills to jesse , who still looked half dead but this had more to do with the nine nurses who on hearing that their new local hero was a virgin , had tried to help him overcome his malady , of course i am a virgin , i was born on the tenth of september and the other twenty that heard that he was spectacularly good at one thing in his life .
jesse blushed at number seven , sorry nurse bentley , turned , and thrust it into the hands of the originally designated fleet of foot , who had really had his nose put out of joint by that lumbering ox .
jesse had heard what hed had to say and now the fleet of foot not only had his nose to worry about , he now had three cracked ribs to contend with as well .
for the pot of pills it was a similar journey to my armful of blood , only lieutenant head whose father was possibly the only friend that the president had left and whose rank was falling in direct proportion to the presidents popularity rating had had his horoscope read to him by his new crew chief , punctuated at regular intervals by a punch on the nose , and was now sedately sat in the drivers seat of the replacement tav 8b with a plaster over his nose .
the rso , now a general , having skipped a rank or two sat quivering in the front seat , where threats of court martials and firing squads had failed , open bribery had succeeded , waiting to receive the pills from the not so fleet of foot .
the hospitals gardener had threatened to do something very nasty to the hospital administrator with his pricking out stick if the actual re enactment in reverse , for the benefit of the cameras , came anywhere near his new roses .
pills safely in the pocket of the most senior rso in the history of the us air force , the harrier rose sedately into the air , after the crew chief complete with ladder , had disappeared inside an armoured personnel carrier , and settled gently back down a few minutes later beside the sr 71 .
all television cameras were switched off within a ten mile radius of the airport presidential order 01 for the occasion , but it was slightly academic , it was in full view of half a million spectators , and the rso then claimed the second part of his bribe , and disappeared behind a hastily erected sheet , with two stunning survival suite specialists who were almost in their un suitable micro bikinis .
two minutes later , after a resounding smack was heard above the sr 71s idling engines , he was out and into the aircraft , after first checking that the pill pot was safely in his pressure suite pocket , and second , checking that the cheek with the hand print on it was away from the pilots view , and they were quickly airborne but no greenhouses were harmed in the making of this flight , and on arrival at my favourite watering hole he was quickly out , and handing the pot over to fred , who stomped over to dingbat and slammed it into natashas outstretched hand .
smiling primly at her arch rival , natasha tucked the pills in her breast pocket sorry delete that chest pocket forget that oh forget it , and she was off down the runway , only just failing to solve freds earwax problem with the pitot static tube on her wing tip , but at least she tried .
on arrival at el campo natasha missed the runways altogether , and set dingbat down on the dogs leg in the taxi track , the dogs leg not a real dogs leg , just a curve in the track had precluded her from taking off from the track a week ago , and she was standing on the brakes well before the wheels made contact with the tarmac , let the maxaret units anti locking units in the braking system earn their pay she though , as smoke started to billow from yet another new set of brake pads .
just as she thought that she would miss the turning up to mi casa , there was a shift in the wind i really must stop having curry before i fly , she though and slid around the corner , and began the assent to the grandiose front doors .
as she had plenty of speed she shut down the avon and coasted silently up to the doors , sliding the hood , complete with makeup mirror not important now , but it will be in a minute back along its track .
as she came to a halt , it theory and practice , after practice topsy would then come forward with a set of chocks , place them either side of the nose wheel , and then come and take the pills from her out stretched hand , but in this practice he had just come off the phone with fred , and he snatched the pills out of her hand , and smiled sweetly at her then natasha noticed the chocks , in a flower bed , and dingbat started to trundle slowly back down the incline .
her brakes were virtually useless so frantically slamming the hood shut , so she could use the rear view mirror , she guided the gathering speed in the wrong direction hunter , with what little brakes that she had left , along the road towards sashas roundabout by the main gate , turning the corner onto the airfield was out of the question .
under normal circumstances natashas skill would have warranted the front page of flight international , and numerous other aviation magazines , but at that moment all she wanted to do , apart from getting the silent engine started again , was to disembowel both of them , preferably with a blunt screwdriver .
the avon finally reached self sustaining rpm just before she reached the flower bed , and she slammed the throttle forward to its stop , and dingbat at first slowed , and then finally reversed direction a mere metre away from the curb stone that was only fifth removed from sashas dont forget lineage was very important to sasha , but unfortunately the avon has slightly more power that its continental cousins , even the turbo charged ones , and every living thing on the roundabout was spread over the front of the security office , leaving just another forlorn bird bath in the centre .
but what about the pills i hear you ask , topsy had correctly guessed that after that landing dingbats brakes would be well and truly knac useless , so after giving its nose an encouraging pat shove he trotted into mi casa , whistling as he went , and as he entered my room i asked him if he could sing , because he certainly couldnt whistle , and then i continued my conversations with mrs blake , marcel and inma , who seemed to be fascinated about sheilas cross stitch poem , the menu on our first concord flight and what i had written on the inside of patricia barbers satchel , which had gotten me six of the best from the headmaster , until freyja removed two pills from the mach 3.3 pot , slipped them under my tongue , and firmly clamped my mouth shut until they dissolved .
a couple of minutes later she removed her fingers and i looked at mrs blake , shouldnt she be below stairs terrorising some young house maid ? , and what on earth was marcel prattling on about concord for , it had been grounded for years , and who is patricia barber ?
just like that i had the brain of a fifty year old , they wanted to adjust it to my actual age but i certainly wasnt ready for my free bus pass just yet , and as if on cue , miss a returned from her travels .
chapter 30 following the shootings miss antoinette was in a quandary , she had assumed that mr michaels was just another visitor , passing trade , but he had actually made her genuinely laugh for the first time in her life , and for some inexplicable reason she wanted to see him again , but even if he hadnt been in a coma she wouldnt have had an excuse to approach him , she certainly wasnt that type of lady .
it was only when hyacinth that sweet little old lady visited her gallery with friends a few weeks later , and mentioned the real reason for his visit in passing she had assumed that she already knew that she plucked up the courage to do something about it , but what , then she had an idea .
mr michaels was now off to switzerland so she wrote to him there , confirming that she would accept his offer , and wished him a speedy recovery , crossed her fingers and toes , and left it to divine intervention .
i was receiving thousands of cards and letters of encouragement almost hourly , but somehow destiny , divine intervention or luck it was the one that alice picked out of the sack that sat beside my bed .
she had started to read them to me , just to let you know that you are not alone daddy , and as she read it out aloud she faltered and read it again .
the letters were usually very much of a muchness so she was turning into a bit of a automaton , but the words would accept his offer brought her back to planet earth , then she recognised the headed notepaper and the signature at the bottom of the brief note .
she had been meaning to ring miss antoinette , as everyone called her , to thank her for helping daddy , and for saving poor pierres life , but one thing had lead to another and she kept putting it off , until she read the letter .
tomorrow she would be returning home , but via el campo for a few days , it was her turn to keep an eye on it , whilst it was robins turn to daddy sit , so she picked up the phone and rang her .
at first she thought she was talking to an answer phone , but when she told it who she was , it burst into tears , very confusing .
then they had a girlie chat for half an hour , the first one that miss a had ever had in her entire life , and they made plans for her to hitch a ride over to switzerland with robin in the g450 , and then onward with her , to spend the weekend at el campo to show her the place , and discuss the offer , although it turned out to be a very long weekend , she hardly ever returned to her loft in london .
alice loved her on sight in the biblical sense not carnal , but robins first impression was that she should have been put in the baggage hold along with the rest of the inanimate objects , but his first impression finally waned after alice threatened to castrate him with a rusty tin opener .
miss a why do they all keep on calling me that , she often wondered quickly realised that alice and gerry knew all about the intended offer of employment , daddy and breena had pounded their ears at every stage of their project .
and so they were fully up to speed ugh , which was more than could be said for her , but after nodding benignly a few times she was quickly on board ugh , ugh .
fortunately alice was all in favour of her involvement and gerry couldnt care less , it wasnt his money so clutching her new bit of plastic in her grubby little mitt hand she had her own gold card but this one veritably glowed in the dark she scouring the world for calendars and chocolate box lids , and slowly her tally grew .
she didnt let andrew down , she was such a hard barginer is that a word ?
that veteran auctioneers would throw themselves out of the windows rather than be in the same room as her as long as they were on the ground floor , and private collectors were rumoured to have ended up paying her to take the wretched thing away , and over the following months she would periodically pop in to el campo to empty her sainsburys shopping bag , and top up her tan , and today was a periodic , although it had been after a particularly long and protracted brow beating , but she was triumphantly clutching her reusable , eco friendly , carrier bag .
hello miss antoinette , nice to see you again , good trip , did you get the da vinci ?
i said .
the da vinci was last month , this holding up her bag triumphantly is the monet , and placing it on the foot of my bed please madam , i hardly know you she pulled it out and held it up .
nice poppies i said but for all that money it could have been a bit bigger , perhaps the repro can be blown up a bit , and that almost got her going , almost but not quite , better luck with the next attempt , so i continued please can i just call you antoinette now , after all you have been spending an awful lot of my money , and we do have our own little secret .
oh bother she thought , the tape recorder had been running , she had hoped that something had been changing its tapes when her letter had arrived .
blushing profusely she said do you normally call people by their surname , like those horrible americans no disrespect to americans , anyone without a british passport was horrible to her .
sorry , i just thought it was an arty thing , you know like miss molly , or miss demeanour , i innocently said .
and that was it , within seconds tears were streaming down her face , and she had the stitch .
i was really beginning to like her , anyone that could be reduced to tears by as terrible a joke as that was ok by me .
miss demeanour misdemeanour get it ?
oh , forget it .
finally she was able to get her breath back and gasped , no , my first name is sigourney , but my father can trace our family tree back to the actual branch that they used to make the guillotine from .
good one i thought , trying rather unsuccessfully to be serious .
thats a very nice name , i said , and then the penny dropped and i flung myself back on the pillow and howled it starts with an s. i know she said in a very husky voice , which had nothing to do with the stitch , and my sheet started to rise to the occasion .
before engaging brain i blurted out but you are only half my age , what will people say .
well she said , in a voice that could only be described as oozing sex from every syllable , if its only a matter of mathematics , then my identical twin simone can always make up the numbers , and with that my sheet was in shreds , i wonder why ?
chapter 31 i found out the answer to that question a few days later when i was granted an audience by an american lady who deigned to be in the company of a mere mortal .
i was actually soaking up my bit of the sun , on my sun bed , beside my pool when she wafted in .
she introduced herself one of the connecticut something or others , gave me a potted history of her short lifes achievements x amount of silver spoons in her mouth at birth apparently she wasnt delivered she was announced , youngest ever child beauty pageant queen , prom queen , had three summa cum laudes sun tan creams ?
and delivered the valedictorian at high school , college and university was that like being a postie ?
, then she went on to why she had selected this particular pharmaceutical company to have the honour of making her an offer of employment , although she got a bit miffed when half way through her recital i rolled onto my front and asked her to rub some factor 40 on my back , perhaps it wasnt her companys brand .
finally , just before marcel would have pronounced me well done , she came to the point , she was here to chat about my new pills .
first the side effect that they had just discovered now that got my attention , apparently i would now have an enhanced libido , and as she stood there waiting for my reaction , a gust of wind blew her skirt up and i got it , but thank god i was lying face down .
then she got on to the multiple choice questions , do i like the shape of the pills as i was their only recipient , someone in customer care must have thought lets give him a choice and get rid of her for a few days as a bonus .
round are so boring , can i have square ones ?
errrr i am sure that we can comply with your request , are you happy with them staying white ?
i would prefer sky blue pink , with purple spots on , and at that moment i think that she realised that i was extracting the michael , oops , nearly said urine , but she gave it one last go .
we can give them different flavours , which ones would you prefer ?
i lay there for a moment in serious deliberation , and said fish and chips , salt and vinegar crisps , and black pudding flavours please .
collecting her things she quietly stormed off , throwing the rest of her questions into my swimming pool in passing .
ah well i thought , my gain , her work colleagues loss , but it did explain the sheet , and my morning glories , i thought i just needed the loo .
next it was topsys turn , was i up for a quick trip in my wheelchair ?
i was slowly getting my strength back but it would be a while before i could walk very far , or watch an air display standing up , so as a refusal would upset an awful lot of people i said yes , and after putting my dressing gown on sigourney pushed me through mi casa and out onto the heli pad , whence i had a major problem , should i watch the aerobatics or sigourney , she hadnt but a dressing gown on , and was almost topless and bottomless in fact her bottom was and topsy was having the same problem , until fred , or as she was now pregnant , joyce , broke him a rib .
even before id had the big sleep , first teddy and then topsy had been busy , they had been on a recruiting drive , not just for personnel but also aircraft , and very quickly people on the circuit realised that he had just reached and passed the magical twenty two , was the green diamonds going to go for a world record beating twenty three aircraft loop ? , and topsys answer was always the same , i can neither confirm nor deny that there will be a record breaking attempt he was definitely spending too much time on the lady s , the floating one , but i can categorically state that if there is , mr michaels will be the first to see it , and at the last large show of the season the green diamonds had equalled the world record , whilst natasha stood beside arabella on the flight line .
after sigourney had put on the dressing gown that joyce had thrust into her hands the show started , and it was spectacular , and i can categorically state that they did not do a twenty three aircraft loop .
the next day was the day before my birthday , and as usual i was strapped into a hunter , but this one was a mk7d , and natasha was driving .
i had special permission from the medics to fly , but only if i wore a neck brace , anti g suite , special support bits and bobs that made me look like the incredible hulk , and i didnt touch the controls .
of course i wouldnt i said , and then uncrossed my fingers .
i had joined natasha at rnas culdrose davids favourite military hospital , and had been fork lifted ?
into the aircraft , and on topsys mark i pressed my press to transmit button its not really a control is it .
farnborough approach , this is the lady s like the us president and air force one , whichever aircraft boat golf buggy i was in was the lady s requesting permission to fly by , and then join left hand circuit for landing .
were they going to poop on my parade , or not ?
or not , lady s , this is farnborough approach , you are cleared for fly by and left hand circuit to land , by the way are you on your own ?
look at your radar screen you moron i thought , only a couple of chicks farnborough approach , will be overhead in three zero seconds , out .
thirty seconds later natasha took the centre line down farnboroughs main runway , with eleven gleaming hunters on her port wing and ten on her starboard , which made a grand total of twenty two aircraft , but the next to the last position on the starboard wing was empty , we were in the missing comrade formation , and apparently the crowds went wild .
as i was wheeled around the flight line and then into the control tower , the only question that i was asked was are you going for the record , and i would shrug my shoulders well as much as my neck brace would allow me to and gave an enigmatic smile , which i had been practicing in a mirror in front of a new painting that had appeared in my bedroom i hoped that crossed fingers worked on gestures as well , as topsy had been practicing his arithmetic 1x1 a singleton , 2x2 the ace of diamonds , 3x3 an even bigger ace of diamonds , 4x4 mr andrew michaels very own sixteen of diamonds , and 5x5 well and truly , a new world record if a jobs worth doing , its worth doing well , and i hoped that the programme director has some smelling salts handy as three of my team were still at culdrose waiting for maana .
about the author i spent twenty two years in the fleet air arm royal navy as an aircraft mechanic , most of my time as a maintenance supervisor .
following a brief time driving heavy goods vehicles i then spent a further fourteen years as a housing officer for a local authority housing association before being medically retired .
i have two children and a growing number of grandchildren from my first marriage , and following my retirement , met , married , and relocated to spain with melva .
this book is the second in my andrew michaels trilogy .
hopefully you will have already read the first , road to recovery , but if you havent , then perhaps a journey back in time will fill in a few blanks .
the third , above and beyond has also now been released .
connect with me online http www.tonywilson.es https www.smashwords.com profile tonywilson wall the george collins experience thomas g. baker wall the george collins experience this book is a work of fiction .
names , characters , businesses , organizations , places , events , and incidents are either products of the authors imagination or are used fictitiously .
any resemblance to actual persons , living or dead , events , or localities is entirely coincidental .
wall the george collins experience copyright 2012 by thomas g. baker isbn 13 9781466189669 smashwords edition license notes all rights reserved .
no part of this ebook may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without written permission from the author .
the wall series available in print and ebook the george collins experience the john anders experience the paul herrington experience the brandon slazenger experience the daniel epstein experience the marlene campanili experience other books by the author available in both print and ebook child in paradise tranquillious voyage of endeavor table of contents chapter one the collapse chapter two exile and cannibals chapter three silver glen springs chapter four the hammer chapter five the colonists chapter six mayport and the pirates chapter seven outward bound chapter eight voyage into the unknown chapter nine visions of empire chapter ten three hour tour chapter eleven homeward bound about the author appendix a state of affairs appendix b mankind extension of nature dedication this book is dedicated to those few among us who diligently strive in the quest to unlock and understand the human experience , to unearth man 's past and chart his course into future .
too many times they are the voices in the wilderness , the canaries in the coal mine their cries drown out by the herd of humanity as it thunders along headed toward the wall , the ultimate wall .
preface the wall series novels are primarily written with the hope they will entertain yet they are also written to be a warning for i fear we are being seduced into complacency by our technology and those who value power and the almighty dollar far more than they value human freedom and dignity .
as a child i grew up in a country where the telephone had a crank and hung on the wall , the only means of communication with the outside world was by mail or telegram , and there was no television only the local radio station that operated for just a few hours each day .
life was much more primitive back then , yet we managed not only to function , but felt prosperous , happy , and safe .
since then ive watched the world go through monumental changes many good , some not so good .
we have made extraordinary strides in technology and have managed to triple the human population yet the goal of creating a better world for all is further from our grasp then it was over a half century ago .
i love and respect nature , and absolutely feel it should be protected , yet feel the current brand of environmentalism is for the most part a ploy , designed to keep us sipping the cool aid until we are left with no other choices but to eat beetle flour , drink recycled urine , and live in an impoverished world where big brother and giant corporations control every aspect of our diminished existence .
what we should be asking ourselves is one simple question just why in the hell is it so necessary to continue increasing population in order to prop up the bottom line when we have no hope of adequately caring of those already here ?
like it or not we are firmly on course for a collision with destiny and if we have learned anything from our past mistakes it is that nothing ever gets fixed before it breaks and this will certainly hold true with the human bubble as well .
can something like wall really happen ?
you bet it can , as almost always common sense takes a back seat when it conflicts with human economic enterprise .
we need to remain cognizant of the fact that the same folks who precipitated the financial disaster are also influencing the decisions that affect every aspect of our lives and future .
exactly how or when it will happen is pure conjecture all i can do is present the reader with one possible scenario , unfortunately there are many others far worse .
let me finish by saying that i have been wrong about many things over my lifetime and i certainly hope i am wrong about this as well .
introduction we live in the age of information and a global economy .
we have within the last two centuries advanced the development of mankind farther and faster than it has traveled in all of previous human existence .
we have used our technology to populate the planet with more humans alive today than have existed throughout the entire history of the species .
we must stop and ask ourselves if we using this technology wisely or simply squandering it for profit and short term gain ?
so far , we seem to be bent on overcoming and circumventing the walls which have kept all of natures creatures in balance and harmony .
the walls we are currently breaching may appear beneficial to some short term , yet the long term consequences could far outstrip those perceived gains and leave succeeding generations struggling for their very survival .
it is maybe time for us as gods chosen species to shed our innate drives and replace them with the precious gift bestowed on us by nature reason and cognizance .
after a lifetime of studying failed civilizations archeologist george collins is one of the few with the foresight to see the impending collapse .
he is under no illusions as to what may occur and so begins to turn his plans of retirement into ones of survival .
chapter one the collapse the sun 's lower limb disappeared behind the old cypress , its diminished rays casting a white sheen across the quiet water .
i sat in the cockpit of surreal , cradling a mug of coffee and watching a blue heron on the far bank stalking its evening meal .
settling back against the cushions , i reflected on my situation , and as i had done on so many such evenings wished once again i had been better prepared .
hell , i wish everyone had been better prepared , i wish we had been smart enough to have avoided the whole damn thing in the first place , but it was a moot point , as there was no left to blame .
as i sat in the fading twilight , i could n't help wondering how many had survived .
i had done my best to postulate all the possible scenarios , yet even my fertile imagination had n't prepared me for the reality of the nightmare in which i found myself .
yeah , looking back hindsights twenty twenty , i sure wish i had been better prepared , but , in all honesty , can you ever be totally prepared for the end of the world ?
i had spent my working career as an archeologist , digging up lost civilizations and searching for the causes of their demise .
it had left me with a somewhat pessimistic view of humanity as repeatedly civilizations reached their zenith then subsequently collapsed many through conquest , yet even the majority of these had in certain respects been weakened by some act of nature .
it was a trend that appeared to reoccur throughout human existence civilizations rose then perished , many like the mayans , egyptians , and even the romans falling victim to their own relative success .
the forces responsible for bringing down these former civilizations were still present today , and it was only through the liberal use of our technology we were able to keep them at bay .
as the years passed , i began to notice cracks developing in this defense that only served to reinforce my negative views .
i became concerned , for with our growing interdependence on the global economy any catastrophic event would with some certainty affect all of civilization .
humans are reactionary creatures by nature , myself included , and although the signs of a distressed planet were everywhere around me i chose to dismiss them , and like the rest was content to leave any problems to the next generation .
besides , i was getting along in years , and figured by the time conditions really went to hell i 'd be pushing up daisies .
i projected , if the wheels did indeed come off the wagon , it would n't happen before 2030 , which gave me a comfortable margin .
then came several events that , overnight , changed the equation , the rapidity at which these unfolded was truly alarming , and i was under no illusion as to what the worst case scenario might be .
i wo n't say panic overtook me just that with all creatures the innate sense of self preservation kicked in .
there seemed to be two choices open to me , that of going with the flow , or bucking the tide .
i had ample experience with both and decided , after weighing my options , to go with the latter .
it was n't an easy decision , but i saw it as the only viable alternative to what could ultimately result in a horrible way to die .
i knew once i reached my decision there was no turning back .
although i had never considered myself a survivalist i retained enough of my redneck upbringing that i could easily buy into the rifle , dog , and four wheel philosophy , even though at present i possessed none of the three necessary items .
however , what i did have in abundance , were my childhood memories of roaming the kentucky woods emulating the skills of my pioneer forebearers , along with the many years of experience spent camping in out of the way places for months on end living in primitive conditions at archeological digs .
over my lifetime , i had watched and listened to enough newspeak to have acquired the knack of sifting through all the rubbish for the few gems it contained .
these gems , when strung together , began to paint a bleak picture .
in short , civilization was beginning to show the stress cracks wherein lay the seeds of its destruction .
they were simple , primarily food , and fuel , lumped together with a little known fact i had come across in my research that stated , planet earth could only support approximately ten million humans living as pure hunter gatherers .
i began to theorize , if there was such an enormous gap between ten million and seven plus billion , given the right set of circumstances we could find ourselves caught up for the first time in global famine .
if so , just the weight of a starving human population could conceivably cause a chain reaction , not unlike the world trade center collapse where the weight of the floors set up a cascading effect .
world famine would act in a similar fashion as billions of starving humans ate their way down the food chain , causing the collapse of humanity and the extinction of almost all major food species as well .
it was likely to happen abruptly so once it begun there would be nothing that could slow or arrest it .
it was hard to contemplate yet as an archeologist i had come across it many times on a much smaller scale .
overpopulation had been a much debated subject and even gained international prominence in the sixties , i guess it became too much of a political and financial liability for it was suddenly dropped , and even its mention was taboo .
i found out just how much of a liability when a trusted graduate student of mine came across a couple of drafts i had written in moments of frustration and put them on the web .
i was ridiculed , berated , and told i should stick to digging up pots and bones .
students began referring to me as dr. doom and finally under growing pressure i relinquished my tenure and went into retirement at fifty eight .
retirement had put me in a quandary , sorta too old to work and too young to die .
sitting on the porch rocking away my life did n't present an appealing option , and so i began to search for something a bit more challenging .
i had always owned powerboats and enjoyed being on the water , so i thought , maybe it would be interesting to sail through the caribbean , visiting each island , then for an encore the places where i had worked in central america .
with a plan in place , i sold my house and 32 foot express cruiser then purchased an old 30 foot hunter sloop .
i envisioned the perfect picture of retirement persuading a life of debauchery as i cruised through the caribbean , lying around drunk and chasing bare bosomed maidens .
maybe id even publish a few papers from all the research i had accumulated over the years .
i even toyed with doing a little chartering or delivery so went ahead and obtained a hundred ton captains license .
i happened to be in the tiny town of astor , florida on the st. johns river outfitting surreal for my coming adventure when world events suddenly took a turn for the worse .
overnight , my plans changed , and like a ship in distress i franticly began searching for a safe harbor in which to ride out the coming storm .
i had a gut feeling what was coming would be far worse than anything predicted as the fabric holding civilization together had been severely weakened over the past generations .
to best explain these concerns , i used the analogy of railroads for most of human existence each country , region , or tribe could be considered as a self sufficient railroad .
over the course of history , there had been many derailments and breakdowns yet they hadnt necessarily affected the other railroads that also being self sufficient just kept chugging blissfully along .
globalization had radically changed this paradigm and in order to maximize profit and supply a burgeoning human population these individual rail systems had been dismantled and replaced by one gargantuan global system .
the majority of the worlds population had been coaxed , cajoled or coerced into climbing on board and entrusting those in charge with their wellbeing and safety .
those in charge , lets call them the board of directors , consisted of multinational corporations and financial institutions whose primary goal was the making of money .
these giants had grown so powerful they could exert more influence over a government than could its citizens .
corporations and financial institutions have never been known for their altruism and morality yet they currently held sway over the vast majority of the worlds population .
any type of derailment could prove disastrous to the passengers , yet in order to facilitate profits much of the redundancy along with safeguards had stripped from the system .
i had come to feel it wasnt a matter of if there would be a train wreck , but only a matter of when .
i had no illusions , it was coming and i needed to prepare for the worst case scenario , yet there was no certainty of just how fast or when circumstances would overtake me .
i began to feel like the unfortunate folks who believed in the rapture as i sold off those worldly possessions i felt would no longer be of need .
i traded one car for a twenty one foot center console wellcraft with a honda four stroke and begun my search of the st. johns river intent on finding a safe refuge .
i believed in this crisis there would be no safety in numbers because as resources dwindled and infrastructure crumbled there was a real danger of widespread starvation .
if i intended to survive , it would necessitate separating myself from the general population .
i would have preferred sailing off to some deserted south seas island but knew such places no longer existed , the best i could hope for was to find someplace along the st johns to call home .
i explored the river south of astor in hopes of finding some place well off the beaten track .
it had taken about a week before i came to settle on alexander creek as i could worm the hunter with her four foot draft in about a quarter of a mile from the river .
i then set my sights on exploring farther up the creek in the canoe as it was going to be essential to find a source of clean drinking water .
i made several excursions before coming upon a small spring that fit the bill .
the spring was close enough so that by taking a drum in the canoe and using a small battery operated pump i could keep the sail boats seventy gallon water tank topped off .
with the basic scouting out of the way it was time to begin shopping , this needed to be done with some urgency and i spared no expense for i believed money would become worthless in the not to distant future , also it was necessary to procure supplies while the stores were still relatively full and prices were just beginning to rise .
food was an essential item on my list as outside of fish and game anything i did n't take along i would have to do without .
i spent much time in an attempt to work out what would be needed to sustain me for a period of a year or better .
it was no easy task to project menus and needs months in advance but eventually i worked out a list i hoped would suffice .
i began buying cases of all manner of canned goods as they were likely to keep .
such things as corn , green beans , spinach , beets , spaghetti sauce , soup when i had satisfied the list down to rolled anchovies with capers , i started on the other goods .
such as flour which was already becoming scarce , spaghetti , macaroni , salt , sugar , powdered milk and lots and lots of coffee .
collecting enough cigarettes for a lifetime was n't an option , i was going to have to quit cold turkey , but i damn sure was n't going to do without coffee , i procured what i considered better than a two year supply .
to store everything i rounded up a dozen blue plastic 55 gallon open head drums , these i filled with a selection of canned goods and staples then sealed the lids .
the contents of each drum i conservatively estimated contained enough provisions to last well over a month , i carefully planned so the loss of any individual drum would n't necessarily affect things overall .
i was hoping to supplement the food in the drums with whatever fish and game i would be able to come by .
i filled one drum with diesel fuel even though it was already more than ten dollars a gallon .
there would be great difficulty in manhandling a full drum by myself , this was circumvented by taking the empty to the creek and over time filling it from five gallon jugs , and then it was also hidden .
so far i had been lucky as only a couple of fishermen ventured into the creek , none had caught me red handed in the act of hiding my booty and i had always been in a position to grab a pole and pretend i was catching supper .
these days everyone fished , so it had raised no one 's suspicions .
with my precious food stores carefully hidden , it was time to gather hardware and dry goods .
first on the list came fishing tackle as it would be necessary to catch as much fish as possible , hooks of all sizes , and line all the way up to two hundred pound test suitable for alligators , plus materials to make trot lines along with gill nets and wire to fashion fish and crab traps .
i purchased online a couple dozen leg hold traps peta be damned , i had run trap lines as a kid and sold the fur , later i came to see them as cruel but these would be used strictly for food gathering and if things got as bad as suspected i would gladly eat about anything that stepped in one .
though i had never used one i purchased a compound bow along with a goodly number of arrows , i figured arrows would be quiet and i 'd have plenty of time to practice with hunger providing an added incentive , i also bought a buck saw for cutting wood along with a couple of good machetes .
starting fires was another matter as matches , would become damp and useless so i bought a couple of cartons of bic lighters and for backup three kits with the nifty magnesium blocks .
then there were things such as spare bulbs , candles , flashlights , and batteries .
i bought all rechargeable as i could charge them from the boats electrical system or solar panels .
i also purchased four cases of stove alcohol along with charcoal for the grill , although i planned to cook mostly with wood .
i already had one canoe i used for exploring but decided to acquire a spare , this i took and carefully hid in the swamp , it would be insurance providing me with a means of escape in the event i was overrun or suffered some other major emergency .
solar panels were going to be essential i needed at least enough to manufacture electricity for charging the boats batteries .
these i had trouble obtaining but in the end managed to find enough with sufficient capacity to charge both large , agm absorbed glass mat , house batteries , and if my calculations were correct , they would allow for the running of everything electric in the boat while the sun shined .
armament was high on the list , in truth , i would have liked to have mounted a fifty cal .
machine gun on the hunter but settled for a 22 pistol and a semiautomatic rifle with plenty of ammo , from long rifles to shorts , the shorts would be effective at close range , and the sound would n't carry .
i looked for a varmint gun such as a 222 swift or 22 250 remington but gave up and settled for a 12 gauge automatic shotgun and a dozen boxes of double 00 buck along with a couple of boxes of deer slugs .
as i toiled away , the news continued growing grimmer it was as if a curtain was slowly being raised to reveal mankind at his rankest .
i grew more resolute and packed the remaining drums with those things i had earlier neglected to think of .
now it was down to living day to day racking my brain for anything essential i had overlooked .
i sold the center console for peanuts as it had served its purpose , and soon there would no longer be gasoline to run it there were already acute shortages and rationing was just weeks away .
like everyone , i grumbled and griped about the deteriorating situation .
most blamed the government for its inaction and though washington and tallahassee tried nothing they could do had a favorable impact on the problems facing us .
unemployment passed thirty percent , those who still had jobs found themselves without transportation as gas was rationed and if found averaged well over fifteen dollars a gallon .
things continued on a steady decline , the news services were hard pressed to keep up , and there were constant interruptions to programming for special reports , the major networks curtailed much of their regular programming and went to all news broadcasts in the evening .
what had been fluff and human interest gave way to hard news , the anchors now wore tight lipped expressions as they too grew alarmed .
the government was as usual behind the curve both parties deadlocked , reduced to playing the blame game with endless rounds of argument , each pointing fingers at the other .
panels and commissions sprang up everywhere searching for solutions and assigning blame .
this only added to the frustration as americans slowly came to the realization their government was no longer in a position to arrest the decline .
hunger is a primal force that drives all species man is no exception , and famine had always created a need for food aid somewhere in the world .
i had never known a period in my life when somewhere there was n't a disaster along with pictures of starving children covered in flies filling the tv screen .
once or twice in my travels i had come face to face with these unfortunate victims of famine , yet had gone back to my comfortable camp or hotel leaving them to their plight .
this time there was a significant difference , what had started as the usual droughts and in other cases floods , had grown to encompass many of the major food producing regions of the world .
the effects were being felt by those nations who historically had the ability not only to feed their own populations , but to export excesses .
overnight , grain futures skyrocketed forcing closure of the markets , the united states suffering the worst drought in history tried for a bit but could n't fill the gap .
and to exacerbate an already bad situation there emerged a new strain of airborne wheat rust that when combined with the drought reduced some yields by eighty percent .
the us suddenly found itself down to less than a three month supply of grain .
alarmed to find she would be hard pressed to meet domestic demands , the us quickly moved to cut off all exports , even for humanitarian purposes .
prices and shortages became critical governments in the worst affected countries could no longer cope and began to fail .
chaos replaced what little civility had existed within these fragile societies and food riots broke out as starving populations desperately sought anything to fill empty bellies .
africa was the first and hardest hit , somalia , southern sudan , and kenya found they were cut off from international aid .
west africa already weakened by a new ebola outbreak and religious strife began to collapse .
people in their search for food began to migrate pouring over the borders of their neighbors causing famine and the pernicious spread of ebola across sub saharan africa , slowly at first then like wildfire .
governments , overwhelmed by the famished and diseased masses , disintegrated before the onslaught leaving africans split along religious and tribal allegiances .
soon , one faction began battling another for survival engulfing the whole of the continent in a frenzy of ethnic cleansing driven on by fear and starvation .
this in turn put enormous pressure on the north african states along the mediterranean leading to the largest exodus in history as all manner of africans attempted to flee into europe .
so overwhelming was this tide of starving and diseased humanity that the european union was forced to take the unprecedented step of issuing orders to sink refugee boats at sea in an attempt to stem the pandemic from spreading .
the hungry still came and thousands died at sea , yet enough got through so that ebola began spreading across europe creating chaos .
the incidents inflamed the muslim world , and passions flared on all sides of the mediterranean .
it was the beginning of a domino effect as ill will , food shortages , and disease began stalking the planet .
people everywhere began bowing under rising food prices , shortages and fear of infection .
nations met to deal with the growing crisis they grappled with the intractable problems facing humanity yet as they did , over the horizon like a dark cloud brewed events that would lead to the ultimate wall , the blow which would forever change the course of humankind .
iran suffering under sanctions and also facing famine saw advantage in manipulating the ill will and the weakened condition of europe .
she found in it an opportunity to allay the unrest of her own people , destabilize the sunni caliphate , and at the same time broaden her sphere of influence .
the supreme leader issued a fatwa announcing the time had arrived for worldwide jihad that all muslims should rise up and rid the world of all unbelievers for they were deemed to be responsible for the crisis .
an attack was promptly launched by arab nations on israel .
hungry bellies and religious fervor prevailed as war erupted in the middle east .
in an instant , israel found herself battling for her very existence as her muslim neighbors flung themselves upon her in mass .
this vicious attack from all sides without hope of outside intervention placed her back to the sea with the certainty of annihilation .
she did what would have been unthinkable in normal times and launched unrestricted attacks against syria , lebanon , egypt , then even saudi arabia , and especially her arch nemesis iran .
conventional warfare quickly gave way to weapons of mass destruction and the ayatollahs were granted their wish to acquire nuclear weapons they received an ample supply delivered to them personally by the israeli air force and submarine .
overnight tehran along with most of the major oil ports on the gulf were literally wiped from the map .
the arabian peninsula and persian gulf became a radioactive inferno bringing an immediate halt to all petroleum production and shipments from the region .
once the nuclear genie had been unleashed it combined with religious fervor and all constraint evaporated .
pakistan quickly joined in the fray declaring war on india who responded , in kind , throwing all her might against her troublesome muslim neighbor .
this quickly escalated into nuclear a conflagration killing hundreds of millions and throwing the whole of the muslim world into war from the philippines and indonesia to morocco .
religious wars have a tendency to open long healed wounds leaving moderates little choice , but to choose sides it became a live or die struggle of muslim against all non muslims .
the developed nations worldwide found themselves caught up in the turmoil as their citizens turned on the muslims communities among them .
europe , the united states , great britain , russia , and china were all rendered impotent and could do little but go on the defensive .
the balkan states were once again torn asunder by ethnic conflict .
fighting erupted along the southern borders of russia and though she tried to remain neutral was soon embroiled in the struggle .
with all going on , tiny north korea was shoved into the background , forgotten , and cut off from all aid including that of china .
the north feeling isolated , with a starving population , was left with no alternative but to join in the chaos consuming the globe .
thus , she unleashed her famished armies in a massive attack on the south overrunning soul and much of the country .
america and the un could only manage a token response the north countered with nuclear strikes on japan .
within the space of a month , the globe saw its fragile infrastructure torn to shreds .
hamstrung by the worsening food shortages and now the lack of oil the superpowers met searching in a vain attempt to salvage what they could of the human race .
they too found themselves helpless to arrest the downward spiral and could only agree not to widen the conflict and to use their nuclear arsenals only for defense .
financial markets and global commerce was thrown into disarray by war shortages of food and oil coupled with the outbreaks of ebola and a mysterious computer virus soon there were critical shortages of essential parts , then of almost everything .
energy rationing went into effect , americans and europeans found themselves out of work as the crisis deepened , and the imports of oil dwindled to a trickle .
due to the oil shortages and fear of a pandemic , transportation of all but essential goods was curtailed , and bread lines became the norm , unfortunately , the wheat rust outbreak had left little grain for the making of bread .
here in florida , outbreaks of ebola in miami and orlando caused panic , and soon stores shelves became empty and gas stations closed .
those who could headed for the newly established camps along the panhandle , and almost overnight astor like so much of the state became depopulated .
there seemed to be no good alternative as either you stayed and starved or joined the masses congregating along the panhandle and risked being infected .
it was by no means an orderly evacuation , as conditions worsened the able bodied fled , leaving behind the old , weak , and those suspected of harboring the virus to wither and die .
as civilization collapsed , hundreds of thousands began dying and the rule of law disintegrated .
those few who came through astor painted a picture of conditions so terrible they were , unspeakable .
i had been among the lucky few whod received the ebola vaccine before supplies were exhausted , yet with all the violence taking place i decided the time had come to make my move , it was a little after three in the morning when i undid the lines and left my slip .
lights along the river were still burning brightly , and there was the occasional car or truck to be heard crossing the drawbridge on sr40 .
i had chosen this hour so as to depart unobserved and hoped i could be up the river and into the mouth of alexander creek before sunrise .
the september night was unusually chilly and even though i was dressed warmly i shivered as the little diesel chugged along in the dark .
i saw no one stirring along the bank as i took my last looks at civilization i was out of town and past the islands , it was so dark i could hardly make out the banks along the river so had to use the gps to keep me in the channel .
in about an hour i had covered the short distance to lake dexter , still trusting the gps , i turned into the st. johns and wound my way to the mouth of alexander creek .
i waited , and as daylight broke , i steered the boat into the creek to the spot i had previously picked out , tied off , and went inside to rest and warm up in my sleeping bag .
alexander creek was n't my ideal choice , but it was the only place i could get far enough off the river with the hunters four foot draft and still be reasonably out of sight .
the creek ran through the forest to alexander springs state park .
people canoeing frequented it , but i was laying my hopes that recreational canoeing was a thing of the past , although , it was logical to assume , there might still be fishermen wondering in or maybe a hunting party canoeing down from upstream .
i got right to work taking down the mast and placing it on the supports i had rigged on the bow and stern that were high enough so with the mast on them i could still walk underneath .
i felt taking down the mast was necessary as i doubted the bridges would remain in working condition .
i wont elaborate , just to say i had vastly underestimated job and would never attempt anything of the sort by myself again .
it left me cut , bruised , and completely worn out , so i was more than glad to call it a day .
next morning i moved the boat to its permanent location and began rigging the shade cloth i had procured from one of the local fern nurserys , into an awning , draping it fore and aft with enough room beneath to walk the entire length of the deck .
i had thought i could attach branches and leaves for camouflage but saw now it could n't be done with any success , at least it would hide some of the white hull and deck and maybe keep out some of the nastier critters .
when i had finished , i took the canoe and paddled a distance away to view my handiwork and see if there were any improvements that would make the whole thing less conspicuous .
after surveying it from different angles i concluded outside of covering a little of the bow it was as good as it was going to get , there wasnt any way to make the boat disappear and anyone passing by was going to recognize it for what it was .
i spent the third morning hunting up the buried drums of provisions , checking to see if they had remained watertight and was relieved to find them all in good condition .
later in the day i heard a couple of boats on the river but they went on by .
i had n't made up my mind in the event of discovery , whether it was going to be fight of flight .
i had planned for what i considered the worst case scenario , that of the boat being taken over or ransacked and even the loss of one canoe .
in the event of any such scenarios i planned to slip into the marsh and hide out , this would leave me with only the hidden canoe and the stash of provisions .
i saw this as the most likely event to befall me yet i could n't come to grips with just running away and losing the boat without a fight .
i remained somewhat in touch with the outside world through radio and listened as conditions grew grimmer by the day .
there were nonstop reports of chaos and violence even military convoys were being ambushed for what little food they carried .
the united states government could do little with three hundred million mouths to feed much less suppress a raging pandemic , it became overwhelmed and went into survival mode , feeding and protecting only those it deemed necessary to preserve law and order .
as more and more people began to starve it was only natural for them to turn on those they perceived to have an ample supply of nourishment , and the government found itself under attack .
by the time i left astor , americans were killing americans , city dwellers were the hardest hit as millions of refrigerators and cupboards became empty , and people were forced to fight for dwindling rations .
during last summer , there had been a supply of meat as cattle and hogs were slaughtered wholesale in an attempt to save grain but soon the livestock population was exhausted , and even horses were butchered for meat .
priority had immediately been given to agriculture , but with the continuing drought coupled to the increasing shortages of fuel , fertilizer , transportation , and even seed .
last spring 's planting had been haphazard , and those who managed to plant found no fuel available to harvest .
the great industrial agriculture system ground to a halt its machinery idle , and fields fallow .
cries rang out over the airways begging people to raise victory gardens but for those in the cities it was n't much of an option as by this time winter was approaching and there was no time left for soon gardens and people would begin freezing .
during the great depression , most americans led agrarian lives , and even city dwellers knew the basics of raising a crop and how to can and preserve food .
most city dwellers had been fortunate as they had relatives or friends living in the country who were willing to provide them with meat and foodstuffs grown on the family farm .
now only a tiny fraction of the population was engaged in farming and for the vast majority , this avenue of subsistence no longer existed .
thus began the downward spiral , as increasingly hungry mouths turned to anything they could find eatable , soon pets and even rodents were on the menu as people began to kill any and all manner of creature that could be consumed .
nothing was spared as even zoos were raided , and their collections butchered and eaten .
ruthless gangs , now ruled the disease ridden streets in most major cities and it became survival of the fittest , yet within a short time even the fittest found themselves starving and all too soon it degenerated into cannibalism as one group of humans actively hunted another in the game of survival .
the availability of fossil fuels no longer existed , what refineries remained in operation served only the gulf coast camps and across the country , as the last gallons were scavenged , and consumed transportation came to a stop .
horses which could have been ridden or worked had by now almost disappeared as they had been killed for food .
the only transportation was by foot , bicycle or canoe .
savage gangs roamed the land bent on surviving for one more day even if it meant eating their best friend .
if this were taking place in the united states one , could but imagine what must be taking place around the world .
the networks were replaced by radio america with experts giving their desperate listeners tips on how to survive .
no more julia child whipping up a delicious decadent dish , these recipes were tailored to the basics , like how best to prepare a rat , or the family pet , what insects , leaves , berries , and roots were eatable .
tips on where and how to forage , finally even these disappeared as there were few left to forage .
the era of the internal combustion engine ground to a halt , transportation was back to where it had been before the industrial revolution , worse for then there had been beasts of burden horses , mules , donkeys , and oxen they were now all , but extinct reduced to just bones laying besides those of the humans who had consumed them .
homo sapiens , the ruler of the natural world , who had ridden so high on the waves of technology and hubris , plummeted toward extinction taking with it all the major species on which it had come to depend .
the airways , once choked with human generated signals fell silent , and the electronic gadgets , the species had so highly coveted , were rendered useless .
no cell phones , internet , television , or radio , all gone .
there were , of course , those things which were self powered and had been programmed to send information such as satellites , probes , and the mars rovers , they were still attempting to expand man 's horizons but their creators were no longer in a position to listen much less benefit .
eventually , there came to fall upon the country an easy quiet , broken only by the sounds of nature and those creatures that had been spared .
the grand experiment with a species expressly designed to expand knowledge and to save the planet had ended like so many other experiments in the process of evolution , an abject failure or had it ?
chapter two exile and cannibals over the weeks , i reached the conclusion , anyone , i encountered , was probably not going to be friendly and so developed the attitude if given the chance i would shoot first and ask questions later .
if we were to be reduced to the level of animals in order to survive , so be it .
i had to become as vile and cruel as any i was likely to encounter .
it was n't hard to get into this frame of mind , as by now i had become a favorite snack bar for all manner of noxious insects , and they kept me constantly itching and scratching .
the thought , that i was forced to stay here day after day and endure being eaten alive , kept me pissed and ready to take out my wrath and misery on anything that happened along .
even so , i had to admit it was n't all bad i had cleared a spot in the marsh a short distance from the boat and set up the solar panels .
they usually provided an ample supply of electricity and at times , allowed me to run the reverse cycle air conditioner through the inverter .
i could also watch a movie , play games , write in my journal , or use the laptop .
living with only nature for a companion was turning me into a swamp rat .
i had put out a trotline along with a couple of fish traps , and had used an old trick from back in my younger days , jug fishing for turtles , which also seemed to work well on gators , i had so far managed to catch a few of each .
i had hoped to bag a deer by now but had n't seen a single one .
id paddled up the creek several times in hopes of getting a shot at one along the bank but had no success .
i did manage to bag a turkey that wandered out of the bush it was a lucky shot as i was using the 22 loaded only with shorts .
i had practiced enough plinking with the little gun that i managed to shoot it through the neck although i was aiming for the head still one shot one kill .
it was the first meat id had in weeks besides fish , turtle , and gator i took my time cooking it and started the boats refrigerator so the ample leftovers would n't spoil .
many days were spent writing in my journal which was a real salvation for there were times when i felt utterly alone and wished i had someone to talk to .
this feeling washed over me in waves , and i would fall into deep despair , luckily it only lasted a day or two then subsided .
still i longed to be rid of this place , but couldnt until i had some idea what was happening elsewhere in the world or even if there was a world .
at first i could see the glow reflected in the clouds from the direction of daytona and sanford , but by now all the power plants had shut down and the nights were as black as any i had ever seen in the jungle and rich with stars .
the middle of november approached , i could tell from the sky something big was brewing it had a strange yellowish look and was filling with wispy white bands .
a quietness descended as if nature herself knew something extraordinary was about to happen .
always before there had been weather people to tell me what was coming , but there were no more radar screens with the forecaster pointing to the tropical depression or giving tips on preparedness .
i was on my own every morning was a guessing game trying to figure out what the days weather held .
even though it was late in the season , having ridden out three or four hurricanes in my lifetime i had an uneasy feeling the sky i was looking at portended a major storm .
i had been stupid not to procure a good barometer for it would have given me some indication of weather trends .
if there was a storm brewing i had better get prepared just in case , if it did n't materialize at least it would give me something to do .
my first priority was the boat it was n't going to be beat up by the surge sitting back in the creek .
my main concern was the possibility the surrounding trees would damage it .
i satisfied myself that all the trees were young and strong and had no large branches which could pierce the hull , i needed to get the saran off and rolled up , and especially protect the solar panels for they had become absolutely crucial to my lifestyle i unhooked and brought them inside the boat .
the hidden canoe would be all right as would the remaining plastic drums even if the river rose , which i figured it , would .
the other canoe was tied behind the boat filled with water and the big cqr anchor to weight it down on the bottom .
i had finished most of my preparations before the rains started .
it was in the evening about an hour before sunset when the wind began to pick up in earnest .
i battened down the hatches and kicked back , the wind increased and by three in the morning it was shirking through the trees i lay in my blackened cocoon listening to the small branches peppering the boat , once in a while something larger would hit causing me to jump .
throughout the next day , the winds howled but by late afternoon , it began to subside .
i peeked out of the hatch the boat was covered in small branches and leaves but was otherwise unscathed .
no doubt it had been a major storm , but there was no one left to give the particulars or even to name it .
it was the beginning of december three months into my exile it had been ages since i had heard a motor of any kind , and that had been a small aircraft way off in the distance .
in the last month , id become bolder and began setting trotlines in the river paddling out to check them every day .
i was just about to leave the creek and run them when i heard the unmistakable sound of an airboat coming from the north .
i quickly turned tail and headed back to the boat , grabbed the 22 pistol and shotgun then waited in the cockpit .
the noise grew louder i felt my heart pounding as by the sound i judged they were just at the creek mouth , suddenly the noise of the engine died down .
whoever it was had turned into the creek ?
i quickly jumped into the canoe and paddled the few feet to the bank .
i crept into the bushes to the spot i had picked out for just such an emergency .
it had been cleverly contrived so as to conceal me from anyone who came poking around the boat yet was close enough i could monitor everything going on .
sure enough , in about five minutes the airboat came in sight , it looked for a moment as if they were going to turn and go back out but then one of them spotted the hunter and pointed .
in a couple of minutes , they were alongside the sailboat , the smaller one standing with a rifle at the ready .
i heard him say to the big guy driving , what you reckon we got here ?
the driver said , lookies like somebody got them a little hidy hole do n't it to you ?
the skinny one said , i told you we shoulda come this way a month ago , hell there 's no telling who alls hold up on this stretch of river .
the airboat lay alongside the hunter both men trained guns on the sailboat .
then the skinny one took out a knife and cut through the saran while the other stood guard .
the big guy said , reckon anybodys home ?
the skinny one said , we 'll find out soon enough , i 'm hoping theres some good looking pussy , ya never know , if it 's pretty , we 'll fuck it , if it ai n't we 'll eat it .
the big guy said , shit i could n't eat that last old bitch you butchered , no matter which a way she was cooked .
skinny handed the other his rifle , pulled out a pistol , and with it in hand boarded the boat .
he carefully slid back the hatch then cautiously peered in the cabin and said , keep an eye out , i do n't think theres nobody home , but theyre sure as hell living here , they probably run like rabbits when they heard us comin .
he gingerly made his way down into the cabin then emerged a few seconds later holding a can of corn and said to the big guy , hell there 's enough food down here to feed a fuckin army .
the other one said , bring it on and anything else you see we kin use .
hurry up , i got ta bad feelin about this shit , lets burn this bitch and get the hell out of here , i wan na get back for that damn whore gets loose and takes off again .
skinny said , dont you be worrying about that slut , she ai n't going nowhere i got her trussed up like a fucking hog .
time you got over that cunt .
i could hear her bones rattlin last time you was nailing her .
bitch ai n't got enough meat left to make her worth butcherin .
the big guy said , shut your fuckin ' mouth , jus cause we ate your bitch .
grab , the god damn food and lets get the fuck outta of here .
skinny returned to the cabin and after a bit came up the companion way with a pillowcase full of can goods and said , there must be three or four more of these suckers down there .
the big guy said , see any guns or anything ?
just a bow and some little 22s layin around , looks like jus one guy .
id seen and heard all i needed to know , it was time for action , these scumbags were going to strip and burn my boat and i was n't about to let them , not without a fight .
it was going to be necessary to time it just right and pick a moment when their guard was down .
skinny went for another load i waited hoping the sound of my heart wouldnt give me away .
he popped up with another full pillowcase and said , i think we ought to stick around for awhile , see if we ca n't get us some fresh meat to go with these tators .
the big guy said , com on , hurry up , i dont like it one bit knowin that fuckers out there somewhere .
the bushes and saran were between us , trembling i waited for just the right moment it came as he reached across to hand the pillowcase to the big guy .
i raised the shotgun and squeezed the trigger , the blast shattered the silence , the buckshot caught skinny full in the back the force taking him over the side , in rapid secession the sound of two more rounds rang out , this time catching the driver in the face and chest as he reached for the rifle .
i raced from my hiding place , jumped in the canoe pushed off , and shot around the sailboats stern bumping into skinny who was floating face down , the big guy still had some life in him and was fumbling for the rifle .
i was only a few feet away and fired two more rounds almost point blank .
both hit the mark , the second nearly taking his right arm off at the shoulder .
the airboat began to drift i shoved the canoe forward grabbed a line , paddled back , and tied it off to the hunter .
i had never pointed a gun at anybody in my life yet in the space of a minute had brutally killed two human beings .
i felt sickened not necessarily by what i had done but for the fact i had silenced the only human voices id heard in months .
was this indeed the new reality of life , kill or be killed .
i had overheard enough to believe they would have killed me if given the chance and from the banter was also sure i would have been butchered and eaten as well .
it was hard to believe people , who functioned as members of society only months before , had already descended to cannibalism .
the rush of adrenaline had left me weak , i surveyed the scene , the big man was laying on the airboat , and the little guy was floating beside the hunter .
i managed to get a line around skinny 's neck before he sank and tied him off .
i went onto the airboat and found the big guys billfold it was empty except for a couple of dollars and a florida drivers license i guessed he was carrying out of habit .
the license read , william combs , and gave a clay county address from the dob i calculated he was 36 .
so they were from up north , it got me wondering if they were by themselves or were part of a larger group , if so was it based close by , would they be missed , and was somebody likely to come looking for them ?
i went through all the compartments on the airboat trying to piece things together .
there were four sleeping bags along with miscellaneous camping equipment and clothes , including some womens , i found an ak 47 and assorted ammunition for pistols and rifles .
tied along the front of the airboat were ten plastic gas jugs all of which were full and a big orange thermos half filled with disgusting looking water .
this did n't tell me much as i did n't know where they had come by the gas or how far they had run .
my first thought was to take them and the airboat out to the river and sink the lot , but then decided it would be advantageous to keep it and its precious cargo of gas .
i sat in the cockpit almost in a daze and went over everything they had said for clues .
there wasnt much except they had talked about a woman .
from the gist of the conversation i gathered enough to reach the conclusion she was n't a willing partner , in the adventure , as the big one had been worried about her escaping again , which also indicated she was being held against her will .
where was she ?
someplace down river probably around astor .
what should i do ?
i had hidden out successfully so far , and there was part of me that wanted to keep it that way , on the other hand , i was going to have to make a move sometime .
i reasoned they must be alone if they were part of a larger group they would n't have been so worried about losing a captive .
they obviously enjoyed free movement on the river , and if they had found food in astor , it was doubtful they would be searching every nook and cranny along the river for holdouts like me .
they had also said enough to indicate that they werent above cannibalism , which could only mean that pickings were pretty slim and if theyd found anyone in astor to eat they would n't have been down here hunting my bony old ass .
i weighed my options my movements up to now had been restricted by the slow canoe and fear of being caught in the open on the river .
the airboat , on the other hand , was fast and gave me a means to flee in the event of trouble .
it had been the only engine i had heard in months , so it was likely there was n't anybody left with the means to pursue me .
i went back to the airboat and began checking it over it was a high end deck over , red with gold lightning bolts emblazoned on the rudders , and powered by a big block chevy .
the carbon fiber fan was in good condition as was the boat in general with the exception of where the buckshot had splattered the aluminum and severed some of the wiring i also noticed the boat had been hot wired .
i set about patching up the wiring , having to work around the gruesome remains of the big man lying on the deck i checked the fuel and found it had almost a full tank which led me to believe they had topped off before they left .
i put in less than three gallons so wherever they came from must have been close .
i took all but one of the gasoline jugs and hid them in the marsh having to make two trips in the canoe , i was n't going to need them for my recon , and gas was too valuable to lose in the event something happened to the airboat .
i examined the guns i had collected there was a pair of 30 30 deer rifles , one with a nice scope , and a 357 magnum smith wesson , and an ak 47 much heavier firepower than i had .
there were three and a half boxes of shells for the deer rifles and two for the pistol but none for the assault rifle .
it was two in the afternoon , i needed to get rid of the bodies , and thought while i was at it id make a trip down river , and attempt to find the woman they talked about .
i decided to take the rifle with the scope , the shotgun , and the semi automatic 22 pistol .
i tied skinny to the airboat pushed it around facing the river and fired it up .
i found it difficult to steer with skinny dragging like an anchor , but made it out to the river and cut him loose , and then with some difficulty rolled the big guy over the side after which i washed off the blood and gore that covered the deck .
i cranked up the airboat and headed north one thing , i did n't like , was the noise , anything within a mile , or two was going to know i was coming .
i did n't know where to start , finding someone tied up along the river was going to be like finding a needle in a haystack , in fact , i did n't know what was waiting for me and i could feel my heart pounding as i left dexter and headed down river .
i kept to the right , staying as far as possible from the docks on the opposite side , using binoculars to scan the bank .
everything looked abandoned , here , and there were boats sunk or in various stages of decay .
there had been fires as houses , and even some of the docks were partially burned with only charred pilings remaining .
there was no movement of man along the banks just an alligator and assorted waterfowl going about their daily business of earning a living .
the whole river had an air of serenity about it broken only by the sound and movement of the airboat as i slipped along just fast enough to give decent steerage .
airboats werent my forte my only experience had been running a friends for about fifteen minutes , and it was taking some time to get the hang of it .
i did n't hold out much hope of finding anybody as there wasnt anyway i would be able to search every house along the river , and for all i knew they could have been holed up back in one of the canals .
more than once it crossed my mind that i might be making a mistake , i had gone these months avoiding people now i was risking everything trying to find someone i did n't even know , why ?
the events of the morning had turned my little world topsy turvy , i couldnt help thinking about the captive , and was pretty sure if there was someone tied up they would likely die if not found , besides , there had already been too much death and maybe it was time to start living again .
much of what had been astor lay in ruins neglect , fires , and the hurricane had changed the landscape .
many of the houses along the river were wrecks , now and then a stark concrete block wall stood as a monument .
there seemed to be no pattern as i saw houses completely trashed , yet strangely others seemed untouched , except for being overgrown .
i rounded a bend , and the bridge came into view , it was still there in the closed position and except for a broken window in the control cab looked none the worse for wear .
everywhere were signs the hurricane had played no small part in the general destruction as windows were blown out , trees lay helter skelter , and roofs were gone or partially torn off , i passed a half dozen boats sunk along the banks i assumed had been blown adrift by the storm .
my plan called for making a pass through town as far as the jetties at the entrance to lake george , then work back .
as i approached the bridge i noticed a line of gas jugs and a pile of other stuff along the motel seawall next to the bridge .
i trained the glasses on the pile there was clothing lying on top of the jugs , so it had to be after the hurricane for sure and by the looks very recent .
i made a sweep with the glasses until i was satisfied there was n't anyone around then headed for the dock and cut the power .
i misjudged and hit hard enough that i was almost thrown out of the seat .
as the airboat bounced off the sea wall i scrambled to get a line on the small dock and looked around sheepishly sorta glad there was n't anyone to critique my air boatman ship .
i drew the 22 and with it in hand stepped onto the dock hoping like hell i was n't going to meet with the same reception i had given those two reptiles .
i felt conspicuous and vulnerable as i moved around in the open surveying the situation .
the motel restaurant was gone , obviously burnt as only charred pilings remained , the motel had fared a little better just missing part of the roof .
i made my way over to the jugs checked and found most were full , this stockpile alone was over fifty gallons .
there was a pile of miscellaneous clothing and cooking utensils , from it i deduced this must be where the duo had their base .
cautiously i made my way to the motel and began checking each room , i reached the third , opened the door , and there in front of me was a woman , naked to the waist , bound hand and foot to the bed springs .
she saw me and frantically began struggling in a desperate attempt to free herself .
skinny was right she was tied up six ways from sunday , her wrists and ankles chafed and bleeding from her efforts to escape .
i said , it 's alright , i 'm not going to hurt you relax , let me get those ropes off .
her struggling increased as i moved closer .
everythings all right those two animals wo n't bother you again .
she continued struggling , reminding me somewhat of a fish as she flopped around in desperation on the box springs .
i said , for christ sakes , please calm down it 's over , you 'll be all right , please do n't hurt yourself , hold still and let me get you untied .
she quit struggling yet looked at me with the frightened stare of a wild animal .
i removed the gag and began working on the knots binding her wrists .
she looked to be young but with her hollow cheeks and sunken eyes it was hard to tell , her arms and legs were just skin and bone and she presented the perfect picture of an anorexic , or maybe a concentration camp inmate .
i said , my names george walter collins , my friends used to call me gw , whats yours ?
she hesitated as if unsure to speak then said , connie constance parker , i almost forgot , it 's been bitch or whore for so long .
do n't worry connie , i 'll get you out of this hellhole , how long have they held you ?
she said , over two months .
i asked , are there any others ?
no , just them , i 'm the only one left , they she paused as if searching for words tears began welling up in her sunken eyes as pent up emotions of the last two months and what must have been pure hell rushed forth to physically manifest itself .
they .
she struggled to get the words out , and then they burst forth as if a dam had ruptured , they ate them all !
she sat up her emaciated frame heaved and shuttered as she brought her freed hands to her face and cried out , oh my god , oh my god .
her words were chilling and sent a shudder through me i thought it best not to ask any more questions just , can you walk ?
she nodded weakly and said , yes .
ok , lets get going and find you some clothes .
it was n't cold for december , but chilly enough out of the sun that i wondered why in her present state she was n't suffering from hypothermia .
as we walked out she caught sight of the airboat and froze .
where are they ?
she said , in a voice , filled with alarm and fright .
i said , do n't worry , theyre history , they wo n't be bothering anyone again i 'll tell you about it later .
we made our way to the row of gas jugs there was a couple of jackets among the pile of stuff , and she picked one out and put it on .
i loaded the gas in the airboat helped her on , pushed , off cranked , up the big block , and headed for the creek .
she huddled beside me clutching at the coat a small diminutive creature liberated from an abominable situation , scared , and facing an uncertain future .
i had to admit i didnt present a reassuring sight for i hadnt shaved or cut my hair in months , even i was a little taken aback when looking in the mirror and as we headed to the boat made a mental note to shave at the first opportunity .
from what little shed said while i loaded the gas , i could well understand why she had tried so desperately to escape .
she had been forced to watch her family raped , butchered and eaten by skinny and his big buddy .
as i thought about it there , developed within me a burning hatred for the two i hadnt felt earlier , any remorse i might have harbored dissolved , and i was glad i had granted them no quarter .
we reached the hunter and tied off , i helped her on board and apologized saying , i 'm sorry this is a bachelor boat , and i was n't expecting company but please make yourself at home .
she went below and took a seat on the port settee where she sat in a daze silent , disheveled , and filthy i said , the johns in there and pointed toward the little head , theres running water but it is n't very hot .
i 'll turn on the water heater so you can have a hot shower .
theres soap and towels under the basin , ill root through the closet and find you something to wear , im afraid i only have guy stuff , while youre at it i 'll rustle up something for supper .
after a while , she made her way to the little head and began undressing but did n't close the door .
i said , the door slides , she said , believe me mister , after what i 've been through i 've got no modesty left and what there is of me , is n't worth looking at .
what she said was true , there was just a skeleton standing there skin stretched over bones , the ravages of starvation had almost rendered her gender neutral .
she drew the shower curtain and while the shower ran i laid out a pair of my underwear and a t shirt on the v berth along with jeans and a heavy flannel shirt .
i took what was left of her old clothes and tossed them in the cockpit .
she dried off , dressed , and emerged with her hair wrapped in a towel .
she said , thats the first time ive had a chance to wash in two months .
we sat and ate , i had expected her to wolf down her food but she sat picking at it and even though i had n't fixed any great amount she commented , this is the most food i 've seen in almost five months , where did you get it ?
i said , had a premonition this was going to happen and planned ahead .
she said , my dad did too , but we ran out about three months ago that 's why i 'm here .
she went on to tell her story .
they had lived just north of jacksonville but also had a vacation place on the river near welaka .
when things got , bad her father , who was in the wholesale grocery business , raided what little was left in the warehouse .
she and her dad along with her sister and brother fled to the house on the river .
she said , we had a whole truckload of food , dad thought it would keep us going for at least a year and a half but when our neighbors began to starve he started passing it out to them , finally we hid some of it .
i guess the word got around as a group of armed thugs came by one day and took the rest .
dad and my brother began fishing a lot we had seen these guys go by in an airboat but figured they were just passing through .
i guess they saw dad and ray and found out where we lived because just at dawn they broke in the house with guns and tied us up .
they kept asking dad where the food was hidden he told them we did n't have any and werent any better off than they were .
ralph skinny said if he did n't tell them right away they were going to eat one of us instead .
she said there was very little food left it was buried in the yard and when her dad showed them ralph said , hell theres just enough here to go with the main course .
they came back into the house , and he told dad , you got a real nice family here .
tell you what were going to do as a favor to keep you and us from both starvin .
we ai n't had nothin to eat for a while much less nothin to fuck when i look around here i see plenty of both .
connie said , i could n't believe theyd do it , rape and kill us maybe , but they dragged ray out in the yard tied him to a tree .
they both raped him then butchered him alive skinned and gutted him like some animal , oh my god , the screams .
reader i ca n't bring myself to go any farther into the graphic details of the atrocities perpetrated upon this girl and her family just to say they were twisted , horrible , and heinous such that they can not be told to normal civil minds at least by me .
chilling horrors one stacked upon another until i became queasy .
i wanted her to stop but let her go on as i could clearly tell she needed to get it out .
those had n't been hungry , desperate men but vile , depraved , fiends , spawned in hell and nurtured in the death throes of humankind .
i looked at constance parker all that remained of her once proud family and in the dim light of the cabin , with her bony legs tucked beneath her she looked like a small , lost , undernourished child .
when she finished i searched for appropriate words to comfort her but in truth there was none , and none would ever be invented that could dull or sooth the indignities she had been subjected to .
i could do no more than to put her to bed in the v berth .
i seldom drank anymore but made tonight an exception and poured a large stiff measure of makers mark into a glass then lay on the port settee , my mind swimming with all she had told me .
i tried to gain a grip on the new reality of life and the world around me .
i felt by all accounts this had proved to be the worst day in my long life , yet , thinking on it further , there was a the flip side to the coin which made it my best by ridding the planet of those two vile monsters and the rescue of the unfortunate creature , now asleep in the v berth .
chapter three silver glen springs the morning arrived another cool winter day .
i got up and made a pot of coffee and had just poured out a mug when i heard stirrings from the v berth .
i said , morning , coffees ready if you feel up to it , i have sugar and coffee mate , how do you take yours ?
she came into the salon rubbings her eyes and said , you live like a king , just a little sugar , please .
i dropped in the sugar and handed her the mug she sat down on the settee and cradled the warm mug between her hands .
i had n't seen nor had anyone to talk to since i left astor and felt almost giddy at the prospect of again making conversation .
as connie sipped her coffee , i asked if she knew the whereabouts of any others , had she heard any news about what was happening around the state , country , or the world .
she said , the army came by four months ago and evacuated almost everybody to camps thats the last outside news we had .
she went on , dad declined to go saying we would be better off riding it out on the river instead of in some overcrowded , disease ridden camp .
that was before the gang came by , and we still had a good supply of food .
i asked , did you see anybody else along the river ?
she sad , there was one old couple in a small boat he waved , but ralph shot them , and they ate parts of the old lady , if theres anyone left , theyre staying hidden .
i asked , where did they get all the gas ?
she said , that 's all they did , it was an obsession , they searched every car , boat , garage , lawnmower anything they thought might have gas in it .
the arrival of connie had changed the dynamics of my situation , with another mouth to feed it was going to put a strain on my supplies , but on the other hand it would be more than offset by having another human to talk to and share the daily burdens .
i fixed breakfast we sat in the cabin and ate .
i said , were going to have to get you outfitted , if those were your clothes on the airboat i 'm sorry but i threw them overboard .
when you feel up to it , we 'll take a trip into town and do some shopping , till then feel free to dig through the lockers .
after breakfast , i fueled the airboat and again took all but one of the gas jugs and hid them .
i now had almost a hundred gallons of gas and fifty five gallons of diesel not counting what was still in the boats .
i canoed out to the river and ran the trotlines , returning with enough for a good meal .
i lit a fire in the grill , and later we sat in the cockpit and picked at the fish .
she said , i want you to know i did n't eat them , any of them , i would starve first .
ralph tried to force me , but i did n't they took .
i cut her off .
connie it 's over , behind you , if you continue to look back i 'm afraid you 'll be consumed by it .
god knows i 've tried to find words , but i have no concept of what you must have gone through , all , i can say , is , youre alive , and maybe it was preordained .
christ , from what youve told me you should be a raving lunatic , just listening last night almost turned me into one .
we both need to try to move on i hate to say it , but were not out of the woods by a long shot , i planned for a year , now with the both of us .
theres more than enough diesel to get this boat to the ocean , but i havent a clue where to go from there .
we hung around the hunter for a couple of days as i wanted to give connie a chance to get over some of her trauma and regain a little strength .
i , on the other hand , was busy formulating a plan of what the next move would be .
the creek had been my home and had done well protecting me , at least until those two reptiles invaded now it felt more like a prison .
getting out on the river had renewed my wanderlust , and from questioning connie , i came to the conclusion the worst threats were over .
there were more than likely other bastards , like , willy and ralph , but i doubted there were any left on the river as it had pretty much been picked clean .
i asked connie , if she felt up to a trip tomorrow weather permitting ?
she said , sure .
i said , good , we 'll make a day of it , leave early and find you some clothes , if we have enough time afterward i want to run out to the glen and look around .
she said , we went to the glen , they 're four or five boats most are up on shore , and one is a big house boat i cut in excitedly , was it private or a rental ?
i do n't think a rental , it was bigger and too fancy , they went on it but there was n't any gas , so they left .
was it on the bank side or on the bar , was it floating ?
she said , it was all the way in back , up against the trees half on the bank , but it didnt look torn up or anything .
the glen looked so deserted from when dad used to take us .
i asked , you used to go to the glen ?
she said , three or four times a year .
i said , do you remember when it used to be packed on holiday weekends .
when i was little , i remember we could n't find a spot to anchor , that was before a lot of people began going outside .
i said , yeah , it sure to used to be a hopping place on the weekends , especially holidays .
i dug out my old albums , and we sat looking at pictures of smiling people having a good time , as i turned the pages and made a comment once in a while it was n't lost on either of us that it was an era past .
the new reality was it would be many a year if ever before there was again a party with happy boaters filling silver glen springs .
over the last couple of days , i had come to know a little more about connie , she was twenty four , a graduate of the university of florida , with a major in marine biology and a minor in business .
the latter was n't going to be of much use at the moment , but the first might prove useful .
the ordeal had left its scars , there were times she was almost bubbly , giving a hint of the person she had once been , yet at others she would sit in the cockpit morose , silent , and lost in thought , staring blankly out over the water .
the next morning with a clear sky and the sun shining brightly , we departed on our sojourn .
i tied the canoe on the airboat and packed enough food for two days .
this was insurance in case the airboat gave out on us as it could take two days to paddle back , but at least , we could get back .
i worried about the quality of the gas as i had found water , and rust in two jugs , plus three of the jugs smelled stale .
i found a spare spin on filter in one of the lockers but i was going to have to find more replacements and some way to pre filter and remove the water and contaminants before i put more fuel in the boat .
we made our way to town then picked out and searched through the most likely houses i would go first and make sure there was no remains , then call connie so she could explore .
we went through about a dozen houses i found the bodies of a few old people i guessed had died from starvation or medical complications .
it was weird , streets and canals deserted of humanity , in only a few months nature had already begun reclaiming the town , tall grass and weeds chocked yards , trees blown over by the storm their branches strewn everywhere .
there was an air of decay which permeated throughout , and i soon learned to recognize the houses of the dead by the distinct odor as i approached .
connie combed through closets trying on clothes as i checked out garages , cars , and boats for anything useful making a mental inventory as i went .
it was if people had just walked away leaving all their worldly possessions with the exception of fuel and food neither of which we could find .
connie finally had two suitcases , and a couple of carry bags filled with clothes and other essential items required for maintaining a young woman we loaded everything onto the airboat and headed to the jetties .
the day was calm as we skirted the western edge of lake george stopping once in a while to sweep the lake with the glasses , but it was empty , no boats or movement could be seen , we passed by juniper run and on the glen .
silver glen springs lay off the west side of lake george it was a popular spot with boaters who came to swim , party , or just enjoy nature .
it 's clear , clean , and seventy two degree year round water was refreshing in the hot summer and soothing in winter .
on holidays weekends past upwards to a thousand boats would make the pilgrimage their occupants having a great time i guess because it brought such joy to the masses the government seemed always to be engaged in some campaign to shut it down .
i idled in past the deserted and burned out juniper club and could see a few boats scattered here and there , ahead was a sixty or seventy foot houseboat plastered against the far bank .
i glanced over connie was holding the 22 pistol at the ready , i had started to strap it on before we left when connie asked , you got another one of those ?
i had n't thought about asking her if she wanted to carry a gun .
i asked , can you use one of these things ?
she said , i sure can and im wont be afraid to .
i gave her the 22 and a box of shells and strapped on the 357 .
i tied up to the houseboat it was evident the storm had blown it against the bank as the anchors were still attached .
there was some damage to the side against the trees , but no broken windows just torn canvas and a bent railing , the front door had been left open , connie said by the duo when they searched for gas .
the interior although in disarray was n't in bad shape .
we waded over to the park and walked around the boil then canoed over to the juniper club .
the main building and most of the others had been destroyed by a forest fire , after exploring we went back and sat at a picnic table and had lunch .
i said , connie i think it 's time to make a move and bring everything here , i 'd rather move here then in town , we have clean , warm water all around us , easy access to the lake , and dry ground to walk on .
people have been living in this spot for thousands of years , if were going to be forced to go back and live like our ancestors this is the ideal place to do it , we can even put in a garden and have some fresh vegetables .
she asked , do you think were going to have to stay here forever ?
i said , i do n't know , one things for sure we need food , theres enough to do us for six months maybe a little longer if we stretch it .
we could go down river and hope to find enough to get by if not in the end we 'll likely starve .
we can set up here and wait for awhile and see what happens .
if they 're any decent people left it 's going to take time for them to get the ball rolling again .
we can try to find them or wait and let them come to us .
she said , youve made it this far , i 'll let you decide .
i said , lets try it here for the summer , if things do n't go well , we 'll keep enough food and diesel in reserve to get us at least to jacksonville , with any luck we can sail to the bahamas or cuba and live like beachcombers .
we returned that evening with a plan , and the next day went about getting things ready for the move .
we dug out all the remaining drums of food there were still six of them and with the exception of one which had some small amount of water they had fared well .
it was going to take a couple of trips to move everything .
we loaded all the gas on the airboat along with four of the food drums and made a slow trip to the glen .
we spent the day hiding everything , for even though the threat of being overrun had diminished i could n't be a hundred percent sure it would n't occur .
we placed the remaining drums of food and the one with the diesel on the airboat along with the solar panels and tied on the spare canoe i took the airboat to the river tied it off and paddled back .
next came the extrication of the hunter getting it turned around and threaded down the creek , we picked up the airboat and put it in tow , we putted down river both of us looking forward to spending christmas and news years in the glen .
we reached the marker outside the glen i made several attempts , but it was too shallow to get the hunter in .
finally , we left the sailboat anchored and went in with the airboat .
we unloaded and hid the remaining drums then ran the airboat up on the bank by the boil and paddled back to spend the night .
it was pitch dark as i made a last check before turning in , my heart suddenly shot into my throat as i sighted a light on the lake , i shouted down into the cabin , connie come quick there 's a light on the lake .
she raced to the cockpit i scanned toward the light with the glasses then said , sorry false alarm , just a lighted channel marker the solar panels still charging the battery .
the next morning connie paddled the canoe as i waded marking the channel with saplings i had cut for the purpose .
when id found a suitable path over the bar , we threaded the hunter into the glen and anchored .
it was now time to set up our new home , i wanted to be able to utilize the houseboat but at the moment it was high and dry on the bank and tilted so as to make it uninhabitable .
there was n't a hope of pulling it off with the airboat boat or the hunter i was going to have to wait for high water or find some other means to free it .
searching for a solution , i remembered seeing some com a longs hanging in a garage as i poked around while connie foraged for clothes .
i did n't really want to make an unnecessary trip to astor and waste precious gas , besides i did n't think com a longs alone would do the trick .
we talked it over and decided to make a list of things we were going to need and take a trip to town in the morning .
we left early , but half way up the river the airboat ground to a halt the fuel filter plugged with dirt and water .
i replaced it and chastised myself for not following my own advice and filtering the fuel before i put it in i made finding fuel filters the number one priority .
we arrived in town tied up the airboat and switched to the canoe we had discovered beside a garage on our last visit .
we began paddling along the canals i went through almost every boat and garage looking for filters but could find none .
we came to a big trawler which took up almost the whole canal .
it had a couple of racor filters and a dozen or so spare cartridges .
i liberated them and noticed it was equipped with an icom ssb single side band radio i took it along with the antenna and tuner .
there was also a freedom inverter and the house battery bank was made up of four big agms , though discharged they looked to be fairly new , so i wrestled them out and onto the dock as well , we piled everything up to be collected later .
i scavenged for hardware while connie shopped for all things which would add to our domesticity by afternoon , we had several docks piled high .
i spied a 23 foot o'day sailboat on a trailer , it was in excellent shape parked under a carport and searching through the house i found two sets of sails and a little bimini along with a 10 horse 4 stroke tohatsu kicker , just what we needed for fishing or getting around the lake .
after scratching my head trying to figure some way to get the little hooker in water , connie came up with the solution .
she had been watching with amusement , smiled and said , quit looking at the damn thing and just shove it in the canal .
we sat up a couple of boards on the seawall got a running start and pushed boat , trailer , and all into the canal , it took on some water but we quickly bailed it out .
we towed it with the canoe stopping to pick up our booty as we went .
i soon found towing the loaded sailboat was a challenge but when we hooked it to the flat bottomed airboat we had no control .
we tied off , and i filled the tank of the outboard making sure to run the fuel through the chamois i had found in a garage .
it took some pulling , but finally the motor came to life .
the little sailboat was n't going to tow the airboat which was also loaded to the gills , so connie ran the o'day .
it was slow going as i had to stop often and wait on her to catch up , and it was well past dark before we reached the inside of the glen .
i had found five com a longs , several chains and for good measure , emptied every anchor locker of line i came upon .
there was a sunken cruiser just the other side of the sand bar .
i hooked a couple the best com a longs to the house boat and ran lines to the cruiser but cranking them just stretched the lines or moved the sunken boat so i attached a stout line from the cruiser to a large tree on the bank still i could n't budge the big house boat .
i was going to have to overcome the line stretch and find more leverage .
along the bank was a 30 foot twin engine sea ray it remained in fair shape , and though it had some water in the front cabin , the engine compartment was surprisingly dry .
naturally , it was out of gas , but i figured if i could get it running , coupled with the strain of the com a longs , it just might do the trick .
pulling the sea ray off the bank was easy , it slid right into the channel , we walked it over beside the hunter and charged the batterys using the diesel , i did n't mind doing this as i had made a find in one of the garages in astor of a motor with almost twenty gallons of diesel .
what i did hate was pouring fifteen gallons of precious gas into the sea ray , it would only run it for half an hour , but i was hoping that would be long enough .
after charging the batteries , i dumped a little gas in the carburetors , and the sea ray cranked up though one leaky carburetor required a couple of persuasive raps with an adjustable wrench .
i backed the sea ray as close as i could to the houseboat and attached lines to the stern cleats , if i could get the stern loose the bow would follow , i was hopeful as the hull was resting on some small bent over saplings .
i rigged two com a longs on each line in order to eliminate the line stretch .
i asked connie if she wanted to run the boat or the com a longs she chose the latter .
i provided her with a three foot piece of aluminum pipe to give her some mechanical advantage , after cranking out most of the stretch i told her to take it easy , one click at a time , first one line than the other .
we were ready i throttled up the sea ray it churned sand and water sending wash against the stranded houseboat .
i could see connie ratcheting the com a longs , and the houseboat began to rock .
after less than five minutes , i stopped and adjusted the lines on the transom and reset the com a longs .
the wheels had removed enough sand so i could get five feet closer to the houseboat .
i wanted to blow as much sand from under the transom and out drives of the houseboat as possible , in a way it was a shame for i was bound to ruin the sea ray but after this there would n't be any gas to run it anyway , it was a sacrifice one for the other .
again i big holed the cruiser this time it was close enough to the house boat to send wash as high as the deck , the houseboat began to rock .
connie kept cranking on one com a long than the other .
all at once the stern lurched , and the houseboat slid off the bank the sea ray surged forward forcing me to kill the engines .
the houseboat was floating free connie , and i waved , grinned , thrust an arm in the air , and shouted , yes .
the sea ray had done its job i hooked two of the derelicts that would float to it along with the canoe and headed to the lake .
i tied the wheel , let it idle and jumped over the side into the canoe .
the sea ray made it halfway to the channel before it ran out of gas , at least it and the other two would n't rot in the glen .
connie and i walked the houseboat over and anchored it next to the hunter and o'day , and spent the rest of the day making it livable .
i took the solar panels and mounted them in a very shallow vee on the houseboats roof .
there was plenty of room left which was good for there was a new house in town with solar panels plastered all over the roof , only a couple had been damaged in the storm and i planned to get them on our next foray .
i hooked the panels i had up to the big agms from the trawler .
the houseboat already had an inverter and by tomorrow night we should have both ac and dc .
i was n't going to be satisfied until i had enough solar panels and batteries to run the air conditioning or the stacked washer dryer .
connie had been busy all afternoon cleaning and i had to make two trash runs with the canoe , that evening we sat on the front deck of our new home and toasted the coming of christmas , each other , and the sunset with one of the coveted bottles of wine we had plundered .
the wine or the fact it was almost christmas brought us to broach another subject , connie brought it up .
gw it 's possible were going to be living together for the rest of our lives and maybe were the only two people left on earth .
i know there 's a lot of difference in our ages , still i see no reason why we ca n't share the bed , its queen size and the nights are getting colder .
i appreciate the fact you havent made a pass at me , not one , i know i 'm not much to look at but still youre a man .
it 's just a suggestion , if i 'm out of line just say so .
i said , heavens no you have nothing to be sorry for , connie youve suffered more than enough abuse for a lifetime , after what youve been through i would n't blame you if you hated men .
ive been going out of my way to be a gentleman , i wanted to be the antitheses of those two scumbags , to make you at least feel that theres some good and civility left in the world .
i 'm twice your age even though i 've had a fling with more than one of my graduate students , i consider hitting on anything under forty off limits as it makes me feel like a dirty old man .
your right we may well be living together for a long time and its likely were among the last people on earth .
who knows we may be adam and eve , a young skinny eve and a very old adam ?
if were thrown together long enough sex will eventually become an issue , in fact , i suppose it already has or we would n't be having this conversation .
i agree the nights are going to be colder in this big boat , but i want you to know youre under no obligation or pressure from me .
anything of a sexual nature is strictly your call .
if youre absolutely sure you want this , we 'll give it a try remember it 's your call .
i had to admit it was n't a very romantic beginning to our april , november relationship .
we decorated a tree for christmas and brought in the new year feasting on the second turkey i had managed to bag again it made a welcomed departure from our regular diet of fish .
i couldnt help remembering back years ago and the new years i had spent here in the glenn with the black water yacht club it was a world which no longer existed .
even though we had been in the glen only a couple of weeks it had raised our spirits .
we had made a couple of more trips into town and had brought back the solar panels , the diesel i had discovered in the motor home , and two bicycles .
these had come in handy , and we had been able to cover almost all of astor , we kept checking for any human activity but had n't come across any .
planting time was approaching we had some vegetable seed i had put away , but i wanted to make a trip into pierson and see if we could scavenge anything from the co op .
we had parked the airboat and were using the o'day , it was slower but it could sail , sipped gas , and would take whatever lake george could throw at it , the tiny cabin provided shelter and we could sleep over if necessary .
we set out for pierson with the bicycles strapped across the transom we reached shell harbor road and bicycled into town .
luck was with us , after scrounging high and low we found a whole bag of seed corn and other vegetable seed that hadnt been opened , along with a few bags of fertilizer that were harder than rock .
they were too heavy to haul on the bikes , but we had come across a white ford diesel pickup which looked to be in good condition .
i told connie we 'd bring back a battery and some diesel , hook it to the big flatbed trailer up the road , and use it to collect supplies and haul them to the boat .
on our way back we spied a couple of goats , we poked around sheds until we found some rope , it took us over an hour to catch the animals , we fashioned halters and spent the best part of the afternoon coaxing and dragging the reluctant critters back to the boat .
each in turn had a laugh as first connie then i was butted off the bike by an errant goat , we had a male and female and hoped they werent brother and sister and they would be fruitful and multiply .
i teased connie and told her she was going to be the milkmaid it had been over forty years since i had milked a damn goat .
we made our way back with the goats tethered on the foredeck of the o'day .
our days were as pleasant as any i had ever known these were simple days unhampered by the complicated , hectic society in which we had once lived .
our focus was on life and those things which had a direct bearing on our welfare .
yes , indeed little things like planting the first radish seed were now a cause for celebration .
our situation continued to improve , setting up the array of solar panels allowed more than enough electricity for our simple needs , enough that we had taken the unprecedented step of shopping for a freezer it was a small one , but still a hassle getting across the lake perched on the o'day .
it now held part of the venison i had shot on the juniper club .
the deer had been getting in the garden i had laid in wait for three nights before i got the first one and was looking forward to filling the freezer with its buddies the first chance i got .
we had seen a bear in the park by the boil but it disappeared before i could get to the gun , or bear steaks would have been on the menu , we had collected an ample supply of spices and our vegetable garden was planted , the only trouble was keeping out the varmints .
i had built fences and set the leg hold traps , they had been catching various critters , and so far connie had shown little aversion to cooking whatever i brought in like raccoon , armadillo , or even a possum .
i had a chance at a manatee but had passed it up as much of it would have gone to waste , however now that we were equipped with the freezer the next manatee was going to be fair game , i figured the tables had turned we humans could , with some certainty , be classified as the endangered species .
on a bike ride along sr19 we came across a flock of chickens it took three days and some ingenuity along with building a makeshift chicken house but we managed to entice the birds in .
we now had some half dozen hens and a couple of roosters they were cackling , crowing , and flourishing , i constructed a proper hen house and already we were beginning to get fresh eggs , well once in a while .
i had been looking high and low but could n't find any pigs or cows so we could eventually have fresh milk and cream with our coffee , or bacon with our eggs , maybe even render the lard to fry a chicken or two .
on one of our trips to georgetown we came across a stray dog it was young just out of the puppy stage and looked mostly to be golden retriever , he was skinny and malnourished , connie with patience and some food was able to coax him over to the boat , we took him on board and brought him back with us .
we could n't decide on a name , so wrote several on scraps of paper and flipped a coin for the draw , connie got to pick and he became skipper .
skipper , was going to have to be a working dog and earn his living as our way of life did n't allow for the luxury of having just a pet .
connie and i worked with him and taught him not to chase chickens or goats , but instead protect them he learned quickly and soon became a valued member of our little impromptu family .
spring was approaching connie had filled out and bloomed once again into a beautiful young woman she now wore a dark tan , to go with her blue green eyes and a dazzling smile .
i , on the other hand , was still the wrinkled , grizzled face that stared back from the mirror each morning , and at times wondered what in the hell she could possibly see in me .
our relationship had developed and cemented in the last few months we had come to enjoy being together and though our sex had started out an awkward affair , it had since turned into sessions of passionate lovemaking .
i felt her youth invigorated me and hoped for her sake it would continue to do so for i was coming to love her deeply and could n't bare the thought of dying and leaving her alone to cope with this scary new world .
we had finished the supper dishes and were sitting on the front deck relaxing and surveying our little kingdom , i made the remark i wonder what the rich people are doing tonight .
connie said , probably sitting in silver glen watching the sun set .
gw i never asked before but what do you think happenedreally ?
i know there was a lot of trouble all around the world , but there always seemed to be trouble around the world , what caused everything to fly apart so fast in just months , it does n't seem possible ?
i said , ive had a lot of time to think about it , i got some ideas , sure you want to hear them ?
she nodded yes .
better fix us some more coffee its a long story .
she came back with coffee and sat down .
what we just went through is a human bubble .
the planet reached what might be described as optimum population probably some time shortly after the end of world war two when the baby boom began .
it was recognized back then that we had a potential problem , but at the time we were galloping along full tilt concentrating only on expanding the economic model that had worked so well in the past , and it was reasoned we had to continue to grow or things would stagnate .
no one bothered searching for alternatives , and all our efforts continued to be focused on making what we had work .
we just kept galloping along expanding and creating more humans , or what business so fondly referred to as new consumers .
productivity continued to rise , yet we added more and more people to the population i had a professor in the sixties who told us in fifty years unemployment would be so high there would be two or three people for every job .
he said it would n't present a problem as workers would take turns , with each working no more than one or two days a week , the rest of the time they would be free to enjoy life .
it sounded good but just too utopian .
turns out it was , as instead of leisure time and a better life we got wal mart and a nation of part timers making minimum wage .
science and the green revolution were in full swing and everyone felt it would keep pace with population growth and for a while it did , nip and tuck .
theres never been worldwide famine , mainly because in all of human history theres never been worldwide overpopulation .
typical of human behavior , since it had never happened , nobody was really concerned about it .
we made this one possible by science , fossil fuels , strides in medicine , and unregulated capitalism on a global scale , it allowed for the artificial ratcheting up of the population worldwide .
certain parts of the planet are prone to famine , its an ongoing vicious cycle , others occur as quirks of nature .
in days of yore , populations in affected areas either moved to greener pastures or died back to a sustainable level .
through our new global economy and the green revolution we gained the means to intervene in local famines , it was seen as a noble cause , humans helping humans .
but it simply stabilized these populations so they could continue to grow until they faced far worse famines in the future .
this cycle of dependency continued stretching the rubber band until the wars and ebola came along , and the rubber band snapped .
unfortunately as we grew the global economy , we stripped many countries of their ability to be self sustaining so when this crisis hit it was like a string of dominos as one country fell it took down another setting up a cascade .
this country had been so hollowed that when push came to shove we could no longer stand on our own .
she said , gw where is god in all of this , are you an atheist ?
good god no honey , i 'm invested with just as much spirituality as anybody .
i believe in a creator of the universe , why because i 'm ignorant and rely on my inner sense of spiritually which leads me in that direction .
i wo n't hazard a guess as to what or who god is , except to say anything i told you would be pure myth and speculation i will add that when i pray , and i do from time to time , it is to him .
i have reverence toward my creator i 'm willing to leave it at that and let future generations continue to figure it out , and given enough time i 'm certain they will .
that is if we can recover and do n't destroy our species completely along the way .
i tend to stay concentrated on this one little planet we have to arrive at a complete understanding of ourselves before we go gallivanting off elsewhere .
i believe that nature and god are closely connected possibly one and the same .
it 's said , god made man in his own image , we , therefore , have this idea that god has to be in human form sitting around on a golden throne .
i 'm sure were close to finding the physical image of god it 's our dna the building blocks of life that 's where we 'll find the image of god , at least our god .
most of mankind has been too busy looking for heaven elsewhere .
weve been stuck in a rut everything marches on , but religion , it remains static , unbending , and rigid , each generation becoming conditioned like pavlovs dog .
i hope , if we manage to come out of this thing , then just maybe , we 'll be around long enough to shed our training wheels , mature and finally get past this hubris shit and come to realize that god nature gave us this wonderful ability to create heaven right here on earth .
with a small enlightened population , rich in technology , proceeding in an orderly manner we certainly would have reached some form of heaven .
now i do n't know about you honey but ive had enough of this crap for one night .
what say we gallop along to bed and let our innate drives work on repopulating the world ?
i was clipped thirty years ago , but i guess there 's no harm in us pretending .
next day i was making a routine check of the hunter and came across the icom ssb .
i had intended to install it in the sailboat but in our move to the houseboat had forgotten all about it .
i dug it , the tuner , and antenna out as i was curious to see if it still worked even if it did i doubted there was anyone left to contact .
i took the rig over to the houseboat and spent the better part of the day hooking it up .
when i had finished , i turned it on , tuned the antenna , and tooled through the 20 meter band for a little bit then switched it off .
that evening after supper i again turned it on and was twiddling through the 20 meter when i caught a snippet of a voice .
i tuned back , and coming through the speaker was a man 's voice .
connie was sitting on the front deck and at the sound rushed inside and asked , is that for real ?
i said , i think so , sounds like someones reading off a list of names .
we sat transfixed listening to the only human voice beside our own we had heard in months .
in a few minutes he finished and i grabbed the mike pressed the key and said , cq , cq , cq this is the sailing vessel surreal calling any station come in .
a moment went by , and we heard , sailing vessel seal , this is joliet sierra quebec , over .
i said , j s q this is s v surreal , s u r r e a l we have been out of touch with the world for months .
surreal whats your twenty over ?
were located halfway down the st. johns river in florida .
i was wary of giving away our exact position .
surreal do you have an emergency ?
i looked over at connie shrugged my shoulders and asked , do we have an emergency ?
she shrugged back .
j s q that 's negative , we just tuned in on your frequency youre the only person weve had contact with in months .
surreal , i have to conduct business , if you will stand by and contact me at 2200 hours est this frequency i 'll set aside time to answer your questions , joliet sierra quebec over and out .
i sat back connie and i both stared at the radio , the little box , that had lain idle on the sailboat bank , had just gained a place of prominence in our lives .
i guessed it was somewhere after seven i say after because we had n't been keeping exact time as our days were governed only by the sun .
we rooted through the drawers for a watch .
connie came up with one that worked .
then there followed a debate over whether it was showing standard or daylight time .
finally , we settled on standard so were left with almost a two and a half wait .
we huddled around the radio listening to groups of names being read off .
we could n't divine what purpose they served only that each list was preceded with letters and numbers followed by a list of names some were short only two or three while others ran to fifty or more .
we turned into clock watchers , as we waited , i said , honey looks like time has caught up with us , and our lives are again being governed by a clock .
i itched to go through the band but dared not touch the little device for fear i might jinx it , the minutes agonizingly dragged on , so by the time ten rolled around we were both as tense as banjo strings .
i took a deep breath keyed the mike and in my best radio speak called .
it was answered , this time the voice identified itself as jerry stine in mobile alabama .
to make a long story short , he told us , most of the survivors were situated in camps scattered along the southern gulf coast .
he and several others , ran a net and attempted to identify people with critical skills sets , and then send them to the places where they could do the most good .
he lamented as usual seems no bodies where they needed to be .
i told him of our situation and asked if he had any idea where the closest people might be to us ?
he said , mayport , was the district capital the only other groups were congregated on the west coast around sarasota .
he had heard of a few others along the east coast but had n't been able to verify it .
he informed me there were a few nets set up for guys like me , and i copied down the frequencies .
he also said there was a national am station that just started broadcasting from washington then we signed off .
i said , connie seems were not alone after all , it 's a mixed bag , i kinda enjoyed our isolation , if it was n't for the fact we 'll run out of coffee in a few months i think i could live this way forever .
she said , i 'll admit , lifes better i never realized just how much of a slave i was to my iphone , updating my facebook page , texting on twitter and all the other superfluous crap i was addicted to .
not to mention all the bills , it 's great having no more bills to pay .
still i wish we could send out for a pizza .
i said , were spending all our time together , and i never grow tired of it .
in the old world , our lives would have been so diverse i doubt we would have given each other a second glance , id better rephrase that .
you might not have given me a second look , but id damn sure given you the twice over .
well , anyway you know what i mean .
i 've come to believe nature intended men and women to be in harness , working together as we have .
i feel like a complete person being with you and i do n't want to lose it .
i hope civilization takes its sweet ass time catching up to us .
i know , im being selfish , but honestly , honey i never want to lose you or what weve built together .
that night as i lay in her arms , i thought about all the lonely years of my life .
i had never really considered them as such but realized as i lay there i had wasted much of my life chasing illusive dreams , searching for that one grand thing that would give my life true meaning .
looking back it was clear all the years i had been married to ruth ann had been lonely years .
both of us too busy pursuing careers to make a life together .
just two people going through the motions , it had all been a facade .
my work had taken me away from her for months on end journeying to far off places digging up and unearthing other people 's lives , never allowing me the time to live much less understand my own .
hell this is the true meaning of life , laying with the woman i loved in my arms and knowing we are destined to sink or swim together .
that our happiness and very existence rested in our own hands not some jumbled up society controlled by men in steel and glass towers .
a society , honed in the art of short changing , and ripping us off at every turn , where we wore with shame the label of consumer , to be sheared like sheep and bombarded by commercials twenty four seven .
not once in the last months had i heard .
ask your doctor if x is right for you .
i gently pulled connie closer and drifted off .
it was about a week after our first radio contact .
we had paddled over to the juniper club to work in the garden .
connie decided to return to the boat and prepare lunch she was either going to bring it back or pick me up .
i finished early and decided to save her the trip .
it was a nice day for a leisurely swim , and the cool water felt good after toiling in the hot garden .
i had covered a little over half the distance skipper had been barking and i thought it was because he had seen me .
i glanced up and saw connie standing on the front deck of the houseboat with a deer rifle pointed directly at me .
i stopped waved , and my arms just as a shot rang out , for a split second i was certain she was shooting at me .
then i heard a commotion in the water behind i turned , and not twenty feet away was a gigantic gator doing the death roll .
connie had already jumped in the canoe and was paddling furiously toward me i swam like crazy to meet her .
she pulled up breathless , oh god skipper started barking , there was n't time i grabbed the rifle i think i got it oh god , i was so scared .
get your ass in this boat right now !
we paddled over the gator was lying on the bottom in the eelgrass motionless , there was blood in the water and oozing from a wound in its head .
i said , that was a fantastic shot , you nailed him honey , look that damn things bigger than the canoe .
just to be on the safe side well leave him sit , after lunch , we 'll gig him .
we returned after lunch , harpooned the gator , and towed him over to dog island where we butchered off the best parts .
this time we had turned the tables and mr. gator was going to be the featured guest at our dinner table .
connie and skipper had both saved my bacon .
i did n't go to lengths in expressing it for i felt there was a close analogy between what had befallen her family and had almost become of me .
her mental wounds had been healing nicely , and i shuttered at the thought of what the effect would have had she once again been forced to witness someone she loved , killed and eaten in front of her .
i awoke startled out of my wits skipper was barking , and it took a second or two for my mind to grasp the situation and that someone outside was pounding on the hunter .
i heard a voice say , gw you in there , its gator sam , wake up .
connie woke her voice filled with alarm .
what 's going on ?
i said , i think i just heard a ghost .
i hollered , is that you sam ?
as i opened the door to the rear deck and stepped out .
there next to the sailboat in water up to his chest stood gator sam dulles , he looked at me and said , i thought you were in the sailboat , i about beat a hole in it .
i said , for christs sakes , i guess if anyone would have made it , it had to be you , come on board .
connie was sitting up in bed holding the 22 .
i said , dont worry honey its just gator samput on the coffee pot .
sam climbed on board and grabbed me in a bear hug .
he said , i did n't think id ever see anybody i knew again , i paddled across the lake to check out the glen and saw your boat i could n't believe it , you been in here all this time ?
we walked through the cabin connie was in the process of brewing a pot of coffee , sam gave her the once over from head to toe , and for an instant i felt a jolt of jealousy run through me .
sam was a big strapping guy much closer to connies age than i and had an earned reputation as a ladies ' man .
i introduced them and just as quickly as it had come the feeling was gone and i felt sheepish , this was the first male i had come in contact with , was i so insecure of our relationship that i felt threatened ?
no , it was just a knee jerk kinda thing .
he looked over at me grinned and said , looks like you doing ok for yourself .
i said , we manage to limp along , how about you ?
he said , i 'm over on shell harbor in the cabin got stranded up north took me and the woman all this time to get back down here , theres nobody left , is there ?
i said , not that weve found , best i can tell everybody went to the panhandle .
we sat on the deck i just had to tell him about connie and the gator , he was impressed , connie tried to conceal it by being modest but i knew inwardly she was proud as a peacock , not so much of killing the gator but that she had saved her man .
i continued relating the story of our survival .
sam dulles , was one of those characters almost every small rural town produces , a figure larger than life , the one who is the great hunter , trapper , or fisherman usually they are wild men and from time to time do outrageous things which only add to their stature and legend .
this was sam , although , with his college education , he could take it off and on like a coat as it suited him .
the sam 's of the world had helped to settle this country , they were the pioneers going where no civilized man had gone before they thrived on danger and the unknown , blazing the trails for those who followed .
they were heralded and idolized by succeeding generations , yet in their own lifetimes , frequently came into conflict with the very civilization they had made possible .
i had run across many of these individuals in my travels and had one or two of note in my own lineage .
sam , was one of those people born for a purpose , yet out of sync with the times and society .
i was glad to see sam as if ever there was a time for a pioneer type that time was now .
we sat and talked all morning , sam spun tales of his survival and how he had hooked up with his gal joyce , if was fascinating , listening to him describe their trip down the mississippi , and along the gulf to mobile by canoe .
he said mobile was a hellhole where every day people were dying by the thousands .
he and joyce managed to catch a boat to carrabelle , and then walked cross country until they found a couple of horses .
i had to admit his ordeal of survival had far eclipsed ours .
afternoon waned , and he looked at the lake and said , id better get back before it starts kicking up , or a bear gets my woman .
i said , got a present for you , and pointed to the airboat boat on the bank , let 's go and see if we can get the damn thing started .
we changed out the battery , and i topped it off with gas .
then i said , did you see a white ford and trailer parked at the end of the road ?
sam said , yeah , that yours ?
keys under the driver 's seat , its got a quarter tank of diesel , connie and i use it to go shopping for fencing and stuff , your welcome to use it .
youll probably have to switch out the battery .
and i added , be extra careful , theres no insurance , and the tags expired .
as we tied the canoe on , sam noticed where the buckshot had blasted the aluminum and said , damn son , i guess you did put a hurtin on em .
he cranked up the airboat , waved good bye , spun around , and tore ass out the glen in true gator sam fashion .
i looked at connie and said , well i guess now that we got neighbors we 'll have to start wearing some more clothes .
chapter four the hammer none of us had any perception events were in motion that would soon change our paradise forever , until then , we went on with our daily activities and our life of bliss .
sam brought his gal joyce over , from the way he had described her i was expecting to meet some gorilla wrestler , but she turned out to be a sweet girl , well educated , with a masters in environmental studies yet game enough to handle sam .
i had known a gal archeologist somewhat like her in my youth and spent a couple of years chasing her to no avail .
she and connie hit it off from the get go as they were both into marine biology .
i was glad connie would have another female to talk too as i was sure there were some topics women felt more comfortable discussing among themselves .
i cautioned dan to go sparingly on the gas in the airboat .
he said , do n't worry i got it covered if you need gas or diesel i got a stash that ought to last for a while .
i thought leave it to sam to ferret out something nobody else could find .
i rigged up an old fashioned am antenna on top of the boat we began picking up the washington news .
i felt stupid for not doing it sooner , but nobody listened to am anymore .
i had n't even turned to am radio in years as even before the collapse am was always weak and at best , all , i had gotten in alexander creek , was static .
we grew accustomed to sitting on the front deck in the evenings listening to marlene campanili and catching up on what was taking place with the recovery , sadly it wasnt much .
it had been horrific way over two hundred million americans had perished in the initial collapse .
as expected it had hit the elderly , the young , and those with medical needs first , then people in the northern states which both starved and froze .
people who made it to the camps died either of diseases such as ebola or starved .
those left still remained in jeopardy as food was scarce , and the new crops were not even in the ground .
still there were signs the country was beginning to recover .
guys like jerry stine were organizing the people who could start production , put such things like the tva hydro dams back in operation , revive manufacturing , and repair needed infrastructure such as transmission lines .
a few gulf of mexico oil wells and refineries were still producing they were key to keeping the fishing fleets operating and jump starting agriculture .
they would provide the needed impetus to get things rolling .
there no longer existed a monetary system , currency , and even possessions were worthless , as food had become the bargaining chip and would remain so until once again it became plentiful and people could turn to other endeavors .
at the present , everyone was engaged in some aspect of food or energy production .
thousands were engaged in tilling fields and planting crops by hand .
it reminded me of the guy standing along side the road with the sign will work for food .
it was strange we had gone from the dominant capitalist society with everyone chasing the buck to a virtual collective overnight where the whole country was working only for something to fill their bellies .
it was hoped this spring there would be better success planting , and if the weather remained favorable , there would be more than enough to carry over throughout next winter .
florida and california 's agriculture had been wiped out , and it was imperative to get farming in both states up and running as soon as possible .
there was n't enough diesel , transportation , or labor available yet to start full scale production .
livestock was another matter , herds had been wiped out even breeding stock , and it would take years before the herds of swine beef and dairy cattle could be rebuilt and that hinged on whether breeding stock could even be found .
american cities lay abandoned filled with the remains of their inhabitants .
the nations majestic skylines were now blights on the landscape with no one even wishing to venture into them .
they were destined to stand as crumbling monuments to man 's greatest folly .
the railroads and interstate systems were a shambles it was estimated to be another year before any of the major highways reopened .
in the interim , the waterways would once again be used for the flow of commerce , followed by the railways , as both were able to move large amounts of goods and people with the least amount of energy .
after listening to the news connie , and i agreed we were pretty well off , we already had a garden planted , and soon it would begin producing and we added to our livestock inventory at every opportunity .
sam brought our pig , it was a wild boar domestic cross we butchered it and had pork chops and roasts we had no way to salt and smoke the hams yet we managed to render enough lard from the lean carcass to fry up a couple of chickens .
it took a concerted effort to sift the weevils from the flour we had left , still it was a great dinner weevils and all accompanied with canned green beans and a fresh salad wilted with hot vinegar , sugar , and joyces homemade bacon bits .
it was a slow agonizing process people were still dying of hunger , disease or the complications from them .
the human spirit was all that remained , where the collapse had brought out the worst in people the recovery begin to show the resilience of the species along with their best qualities .
material goods so sought after before the collapse were no longer of importance as they lay abandoned and free for the taking .
people turned toward the only important things in life food , fuel and the means to produce both .
life at silver glen was pleasant we had been alone except for the visits from sam and joyce .
connie and i were always as busy as pack rats scavenging for anything we felt would improve our lot .
we had even begun erecting a credible greenhouse that would allow us to continue raising vegetables all next winter .
sam had brought over a drum of diesel we managed to get a kubota tractor going , and worked up almost an acre ready for the next crop .
this time we would try growing potatoes from the tubers sam found in a field near pierson .
i had constructed a primitive irrigation system that ran off the solar panel system it would water the greenhouse and part of the garden .
we had managed to repair and add more fences until now we had adequate pasture for the goats which through the help of sam and joyce had expanded to six already there was a couple of kids and milk for coffee .
connie had filled out and physically there was nothing outwardly to indicate the trauma she had undergone .
nonetheless , the mental scars lingered just below the surface , and at times , she still suffered survivor 's guilt complex .
i could relate to this for i had also survived while those , i considered superior to me , had perished .
i chalked it up to the roll of the dice we had been the winners in the game for survival .
it was just the way things had turned out , and i saw no sense in beating ourselves up over it .
i did n't believe we were spared through any divine intervention though i told connie that maybe god had some plan in which we were to play a part .
most of the time we were happy and in our months together there had n't been a cross word between us .
we learned to draw on each others strengths and not dwell on weaknesses , in doing , so it had allowed our relationship to become a whole greater than the sum of it parts .
bringing life back to its basic essentials had freed us to enjoy its simplicities , we worked , played , laughed , sang , and made love whenever the urge arose with more passion than i had ever known , afterwards laying together holding hands , content to bask in the afterglow .
the little o'day was serving us well , we sailed on the lake and ran our crab pots and trot lines , i had tried putting out a gill net , but a large gator had destroyed it .
in retaliation sam and i went hunting for the critters at night , gator sam lived up to his moniker , and we always brought back one or two .
sam provided us all with an ample supply wild meat we added the vegetables and between us had more than enough to eat .
march rolled around it was hard to believe it had only been six months since the fall of civilization , and we had only been living at the glen for three months , still we were the only couples on the lake preparing for our first summer .
it was early afternoon and extraordinary hot for this time of year connie and i were working on the greenhouse when we heard the horn , i looked at her and said excitedly , thats something big like a towboat .
we quickly got in the o'day and headed for the lake as we passed the manatee sign i scanned with the glasses and sure enough coming into the lake from the north was a towboat pushing a barge , as we got closer i told connie , thats a coastguard buoy tender pushing a crane barge here have a look .
the tow stopped at one of the channel markers i raised the main and jib on the o'day so they could see us .
under sail and power we headed for the channel , another look through the glasses and i could read the name hammer and see the stars and strips along with the coast guard pennant fluttering in the moderate breeze , it took us almost an hour to come within hailing distance .
i shouted , ahoy hammer permission to come alongside .
the crew rushed to the rail like they had never seen a sailboat before then it dawned on me connie was still wearing the skimpy t back , and all eyes were on her .
she said , i think i better go and put on something a little less revealing before i start a mutiny , those guys act like they 've never seen a woman .
i threw a line to one of the sailors , then helped connie as willing hands reached over and hoisted her aboard , i stepped onto the deck of the little pusher and could feel the vibration of the diesels beneath my feet , for the first time since the whole thing began i felt i had once again joined civilization .
the captain came down from the bridge to meet us he was a handsome man all of six feet with slightly graying temples i guessed to be in his late fifties .
he wore a warm smile , and i could tell by his self assured demeanor he was a people person and used to command .
he introduced himself as captain allan bright and invited us to follow him to the small wardroom .
behind us some chief hollered , knock it off , shows over , back to work .
we sat at the mess table and were asked if we would like something .
i quickly asked , got any coffee going .
the captain said , that 's still a scarce item , but this makes a good excuse to put on a pot .
my heart sunk for i had hoped to beg a few pounds as connie , and i had been nursing our dwindling supply and were down to making coffee on sunday mornings only .
he must have picked up on my thinking or expression as he added , theres a shipment of coffee due in any day , i 'm sure the next bunch through will be well stocked .
i told him who we were and roughly what we had been doing to survive .
he said , i 'm impressed college professor gone native with his gal friday shows the resourcefulness of the human spirit , i like a man who can think ahead .
i asked , what brings you guys down here ?
he said , we 're repairing the aids to navigation , barges will soon be operating from jacksonville to sanford bringing in people , fuel , and supplies .
were setting up a number of fuel depots along the river and trying to get agriculture going in central florida .
i asked , what about the bridges astor and whitehair ?
that 's part of our mission to bring the bridges back into operation .
we got one guy on board who 's worked on them and were hoping to get the generators up and going .
we had a helluva time with the railroad bridge this side of palatka , took almost a week to get the damned thing open .
i said , the bridge in astor looks ok theres a window out in the cab and no diesel , the generator looks fine , he asked , what about the town anybody living there ?
i said , we get there maybe once or twice a month but havent seen anybody , sam , who lives across the lake , has explored the whole area but he did n't feel anybody has been there since the collapse .
bright said , well we 'll have to get in a couple of bridge tenders say , you would n't be interested in the job would you ?
no pay for a while , but it comes with plenty of food , even coffee !
i was tempted but said , no we live out here on the lake and moving into town is n't an option , we have animals and crops to tend .
he said , why do n't you ride into town with us for a couple of days until we get the bridge going , it would n't hurt to have someone , local , learn how to run it just in case .
i looked over at connie it would mean one of us would have to stay at the glen and look after the crops and livestock .
we had n't been separated from each other since the moment i had found her and the prospect of being apart even for a day or two seemed like a lifetime .
my first contact with civilization had already begun pulling at our relationship .
i said , i appreciate your offer , but i wo n't leave this young lady to fend for herself .
connie and i are a team in every sense of the word , and weve been two people creating and living in our own world .
modern civilization failed us both and i wo n't let it happen again .
tell you what i 'm willing to meet you halfway .
if youve got some extra gas on board , we 'll be happy to boat in for the next few days , it 's only an eleven mile trip .
he said , fair enough , i understand where you 're coming from i lost most of my family those that are left have become very special to me , i think when you start meeting survivors you 'll find attitudes about how life should be lived have changed dramatically .
connie and i spent the next three days commuting to the bridge we watched as the diesel generator was serviced and started .
it was strange yet exciting to see the bridge all lit up again the gates comedown and then the bridge after some coaxing slowly open .
both connie and i were instructed on all aspects of its operation the window was boarded up and measurements taken for a replacement panel .
captain bright told us , itll be another week or two before were back this way , you got a working vhf ?
i said , yeah , a couple , and also an icom ssb .
he said , i 'll write down the frequency , contact us at 1800 hours , and i 'll keep you informed of our progress .
you can listen on vhf 22 , but you wo n't be able to get back as we do n't have any repeaters working on the river , tell you what lets just stick to ssb for now , i 'll tell them to keep an ear out for you .
we said goodbye and from the long last looks , connie received from the crew it was apparent she at least was going to be missed .
i contacted the hammer every evening they had whitehair working then the railroad bridge by i 4 and in little over a week they were back on the lake .
this time we brought sam and joyce , with us to meet the hammer .
captain bright told us he would make sure to place our names on the list , and we could start drawing supplies when the barges began to run .
he said there were still shortages of many things but that more types of food stuffs were becoming available every day and hopefully by next year there would be barge loads of stuff going both ways .
captain bright was good at drawing out information there were times when it felt like i was being interrogated .
when he satisfied himself that we had pretty much been wrung dry of any useful information , he looked over at me and said , so dr. collins you have a hundred ton masters with a towing endorsement , in the current state of affairs that pretty much qualifies you to drive a supertanker .
i do n't know where we can use you yet , but i 'll work on finding something interesting for you and your first mate .
that evening after dinner i said , connie we 've had a good few months we havent cured cancer or done anything exceptional that will place our names in the annals of history , but still it 's been damn good , if not pure bliss , god honey how i love you .
im so afraid now civilization is on the move again it 's only a matter of time before were caught up in it and torn apart .
on the other hand , its not right for me to keep you .
you deserve someone your own age to have a family with , instead of watching me grow old and decrepit she cut me off , before you get into your fatherly act and wallow in martyrdom let me have my say , i havent told you , it did n't seem necessary but maybe i should have i ca n't have kids .
i had problems when i was nineteen with my ovaries it ended with me having my tubes tied .
no !
its irreversible .
as for the old part i would rather stick around and watch you fall apart then even contemplate life without you .
yes , i 'll probably outlive you , so what !
in the time , we have together we can still pack in a lifetime of living .
i love you gw , i believe our paths were meant to cross .
i know you think its corny , but i have no doubt it was our destiny , now lets drop the subject and never bring it up again .
weve got no idea how long or short our lives will be , so lets just get on with living them .
i have one more lets to add , lets not get caught up in the rat race again , i was so relieved and proud of you when you declined captain brights offer and refused to go to astor without me .
connie got to her feet and said , come here you dear old man let this youngster give you some good old fashioned loving .
as we embraced our mouths pressed together tongues intertwined , i loosened her shorts they slid down long silky legs as i caressed her curves from waist to thigh , she in turn loosened mine , and they joined the crumpled heap on the deck .
our bodies touched hands caressing as our passion grew in intensity until we joined becoming one .
as always happened in her arms , i felt the years melt away as the heat of passion surged through me .
yes , with a little luck we would pack a lifetime into whatever time we had left to us .
chapter five the colonists the river had been quiet since the hammer disappeared behind drayton island , i checked the bridge about once a week and made sure the generator was in working order and remained in contact with mayport , twice a week via the single side band .
in early april , they advised me there would be traffic on the river but it was only after several delays the group left jacksonville .
when the boats departed palatka i was asked to check in every couple of hours and if possible to leave the vhf tuned to 16 .
word eventually arrived that they had passed through the railroad bridge and were headed our way .
we rounded up sam , and joyce then headed to the bridge .
about one oclock they called and said they were coming through the jetties , i did n't have to worry about traffic , so i went ahead and raised the bridge .
we had expected maybe one or two boats and possibly a barge , but there was a line of towboats pushing barges and a large ferry its decks crammed with people .
they came through the bridge and tied up along both sides of the river connie closed the bridge , and we went to meet the new arrivals .
as we stepped out onto the bridge walkway , a guy shouted from the east bank , over here .
we walked across the bridge and down the steps to the dock .
the officer , who appeared to be in charge , said , captain collins , come aboard .
i stopped for a second , i had been called doctor , professor , and a number of things which do n't bear repeating along with just plain mister , but had never been called captain , for a second or two i was taken aback , but felt it had a nice ring to it .
captain george , captain collins then i remembered a movie i had seen with a character named captain ron , and it made me chuckle .
as i came aboard , i instinctively saluted the flag then remembered and caught myself as i was about to salute the deck officer , instead turned and helped connie on board .
we walked up and shook hands .
he said , im commander tom hunt this is my little flotilla and were about to bring your town back to life , well about twenty people worth for now .
i asked , how come astor ?
he said , its right on the river , small , and centrally located with road access to ocala west and daytona east , these little river towns were important back in the day and their time has come again , you might say were resettling the country almost the way it was first settled .
there was a flurry of activity all afternoon as vehicles were unloaded at the public ramp and trailers filled with various supplies .
commander hunt asked sam if he would act as a guide and show them around town as there was no one familiar with the area .
sam was watching the unloading of supplies , especially the 55 gallon drums of gasoline and diesel he quickly took commander hunt up on the offer .
i remarked , sam better be careful , they 'll make you mayor if you do n't watch out .
we met with the people who were going to stay in astor most were young couples glad for any chance to escape the filthy , overcrowded , and disease ridden camps .
we listened to their stories of the collapse and the horrible conditions in the camps where thousands died each day .
we then filled them in on the facts about astor , telling them what it had once been like .
still they had their work cutout , moving into a run down town with no functioning electricity , water or sewer system .
they were going to have to build back its infrastructure or face the same wretched conditions as those who had manned fort butler in 1838 .
astor had nothing to profit from , so they were basically going to remain on the dole for a while .
i was sure the town would eventually come back over time and maybe once again become the bass fishing capital it once was .
connie had kept her biologist eye on the river and lake and would often remark about the changes she was witnessing .
we were invited to stay over for supper but begged off promising to come back in the morning .
i had caught connie glancing at the motel and the room in which she had been held captive , i could tell it had stirred memories in her , i held her hand tightly as we walked over the bridge to the o'day .
when we reached the boat there was a sack on the dock with a note attached , it from captain allan bright , the sack contained five pounds of roasted coffee beans , the note read .
george , this will help keep you on your toes until i can find you a command , all my best to you and connie .
allan bright connie asked , what do you suppose he means ?
i havent the slightest , i hardly know the man but he acts like we 've been buddies for years .
how would you like to take a cruise on a supertanker ?
she said , youre not serious , i think the world of you but honestly i just ca n't see you in blue with gold stripes guiding a gigantic ship into some harbor .
i said , do n't worry they have harbor pilots for that and besides you 'll get to wear blue with gold stripes too .
she said , ok captain collins take your first mate home and i 'll put on the coffee pot , i do n't care if it keeps us up all night , we 'll find something to do .
the next morning we began to show a group of the colonists as we had begun to refer to them everything we knew about the bridge and spent all morning wearing out the cogs and bearings , afterward , we had lunch and met some of the people who were headed for sanford .
they like the ones who were settling in astor were anxiously looking forward to a new life .
these were kids that last year were surfing the net , texting or playing games on their x boxes , now they were talking about raising crops , repairing , infrastructure , and the perils of the unknown which lay before them .
the conversation was interrupted by something which had n't been heard in years , the sound of a chainsaw accompanied by a lawnmower , after living in a quiet world it was ear wrenching .
both connie and begged off , said goodbye , and quickly hurried across the bridge away from the offending noise , i said , i guess it 's not too bad if you 're the one using it .
she answered , i 'm never going to push one of those damn things again , i 'll live with the weeds .
we hung around the colonists for a week and almost every evening left with a boat load of things which had been denied us like flour with no weevils , cooking oil , cheese , even a jar of pickles , and a sack of seed potatoes along with another precious commodity , soap .
among the colonists , was a young couple cathy and james cornett , wed talked with them at length and had found them to be very agreeable .
connie invited them out to the glen for the weekend .
they immediately fell in love with it both had farming backgrounds , and eagerly volunteered to help us plant seed potatoes .
we spent the weekend planting potatoes , talking gardening , greenhouses , and livestock while enjoying the glen .
we shared our views about what we felt had gone wrong and what we hoped the future would look like .
on the way back from taking them to astor i said , connie theyre a couple of great kids , what say we groom them to look after the place for us .
i got a hunch were going to be traveling pretty soon , id like to keep this as our home , somewhere we can always run back to if we find we do n't like the outside world .
if it does come down to stay or go , i 'll let you make the final decision .
she also had given it thought and said , gw were about the happiest couple i 've ever seen , god knows why , on all accounts we should n't be , maybe its because things were so terrible we didnt have any other choice , but to learn to get along .
i ca n't imagine life any other way i feel whatever we share between us is strong enough to weather any storm .
the glen has been our private world , and i 'll have regrets if we leave but just knowing we can come back gives me comfort .
when i was a little and something scared me , i would hide in the hall closet , i always felt safe in the dark among all the coats and stuff , eventually i outgrew it but even when i was in college just knowing the closet was there to hide in was enough to give me piece of mind .
i think of the glen in the same way , it 's a place where i 'll always feel safe .
i 'll follow you to the ends of the earth , but one thing we have to agree on , promise me the minute either of us says come on it 's time to go home , the other makes no argument just says lets go .
agreed ?
i said , agreed .
i reached across the cockpit we shook hands then sealed it with a kiss .
the new colonists were busy in the weeks that followed they searched the town and had given any remains proper burials .
houses , that were too rundown or damaged were systematically burnt and cleaned up .
the best cars , trucks , and boats were placed in garages or under carports the junkers were stacked in a field to be recycled at some future date .
plans were in place and equipment was arriving to set up a temporary power plant .
i was relieved for connie 's sake as one of the first things that had been done wast to raze the old motel .
there was now a large crane on the spot and the lot was strewn with containers and supplies .
across the river , i was surprised to see the work going on at the old black water inn it had suffered vandalism as well as storm damage and had many of the large windows missing .
the glass had all been cleaned up , and the inside swept clean .
sam and i wandered in and sat down at the old bar , we looked out from the dark interior at the bright river and reminisced about the old days when the restaurant had been in its heyday and boasted one of the best views of the river and bridge .
i had kept my boat here for several years back when i had lived in gainesville , coming to the river was almost an every weekend thing , after my divorce i buried myself in my work and spent much more time in the field , still i had fond memories of weekends spent frolicking here , or in the glen .
i said , christ sam its still unbelievable all this shit happened , i wonder how long it 's going to take before theyre giving out tickets and patrolling the no wake zones ?
sam said , i hope , never .
i said , i hope they never get the frigging government up and running again , the first thing , they need to do , is burn all of the fucking law books and start over .
hell it was laws and overpopulation that bred crime to begin with , the government taking over every aspect of people 's lives , and so called pissy assed experts telling everyone how to raise the their kids and ramming all that phony political correctness crap down our throats .
what a crock of shit we were living in .
christ we were right in the middle of orwells 1984 and did n't even realize it .
sam look at those kids out there working their asses off attempting to build a better life , that 's humankind at its best .
if weve learned anything , it 's to keep our numbers down to the point where we cant have an adverse impact on nature .
at least these kids wo n't have to grow up with some asshole trying to make them feel guilty about every frigging breath they take .
shit , sam if you were to drag a manatee in here for dinner tonight they 'd give you a seat at the head of the table a few years ago you 'd been thrown in jail .
now this is the way it should be , live free and die like you want , i know you 'll agree with that .
sam slapped the bar , hell yes get up in the morning and do what you want but knowing what you want better be something you can eat for supper .
connie and joyce came in through the open holes where the windows had been .
connie said , i used to eat here , there was a little fish pond over by the fireplace , and at one time a stuffed indian and a cat or something .
sam gave joyce a quick kiss and said , i got to get back to work and show these pilgrims what to do , it 's turning into a full time job .
gw you wo n't believe what they did !
they set an old trailer on fire yesterday over on hyacinth it got away from them and damned near burned down every house on the canal .
they got a couple of nice cat loaders , but nobody except me and dave know how to run em .
sam had waded right in he had the needed skills , and these had propelled him in just a few days to the position of straw boss , i could tell he was enjoying it .
now that there was gasoline available he had acquired a jeep and was back to being gator sam , though he still joked and cut up i couldnt help , but notice he had acquired an air of seriousness and authority .
when he left i told connie , old sams right in his element , i was joking the other day about him becoming mayor , but i think he already has .
cathy and jim began visiting us often and brought along some of the other colonists our little garden was beginning to turn into a regular farm and was being expanded to meet the needs of the new population .
soon there were regular work parties , with an emphasis on work and party , for the groups would splash and play in the springs after toiling in the gardens or greenhouse .
i told connie , there 's just some spots on earth that are natural to life and the springs here is one of them , old ponce de leon was looking all over hell 's creation for the fountain of youth and completely passed up the fountain of life .
connie were standing in what is probably the closest thing to eden there is on earth and instead of taking it for what it is , were always looking for some unknown place of nirvana that does n't exist except in our imaginations .
i 'm tempted to tell allan bright were just going to stay here .
i could spend the rest of my life in this one spot and have no regrets , how about you ?
she said , it has been almost like heaven , has n't it .
with all the help available i took the opportunity to rig the hunter , step the mast and reeve new running rigging , we careened and scrubbed the bottom and painted it .
connie and i cleaned and stowed away the clutter that occurs in small sailboat cabins i went through the fuel system and changed the impeller in the raw water pump .
we sat on the front deck of the houseboat watching the hunter gently swinging and tugging on her anchor rode looking once again like a sailboat .
i said , surreal looks ready for adventure , but i 'm not sure i am , whatever allan comes up with is going to have to be awfully damn good to get my ass on that thing and head out of here .
once or twice a week tows came through the lake bringing fuel , people , and machinery , there were growing signs of human activity along the river , even a few fishermen across the lake living in george town they had begun shipping fish and crabs on the northbound boats .
i had almost forgotten the note from allan bright deciding it had just been just a bunch of hot air , then one day jim and cathy brought us a letter , it was from captain bright asking us to come to mayport for a meeting at the end of the month .
connie and i discussed it , and we both came to an agreement to go but not without some trepidation at leaving our little world .
we asked jim and cathy if they would consent to stay at the glen and take over for us , they jumped at the opportunity .
that night i told connie , well kid i guess this is it , i hope were ready for prime time .
chapter six mayport and the pirates connie and i debated whether to catch a ride on one of the tows or packet boats , but decided we would take the hunter .
it would be a leisurely two day trip , and we could partake of our time together without being thrust in amongst a bunch of passengers .
we loaded more than enough fuel and brought along a plastic drum to use in case we had to fill it with water and heel the boat in order to get under the bridge at green cove springs .
we were 47 feet from the waterline to the top of the mast , the bridge clearance was 45 feet and even at low mean water and tide it would be close , i had helped a buddy bring his boat through years ago it was also 47 feet and the bridge had sheared off the wind vane .
we weighed anchor , made our way out of paradise , this time the channel was well marked , and i did n't hit bottom once .
i looked at the gps and it 's blank screen , this was one of the modern marvels i most missed .
gps to a mariner had been like the invention of sliced bread but it was going to be next year before it again went into operation , until then it was back to paper charts and dead reckoning .
we putted along enjoying the scenery , but as we approached welaka , i noticed connie becoming , increasingly , agitated , finally , she said , gw the house is a few miles ahead , i 'm sorry i waited until the last minute , but i have a list of some things i want you to try and find .
i ca n't go with you i can never go back there .
my familys remains i did n't think it was going to affect me this much , but i ca n't help shaking .
i said , you sure you want to stop , lets just go on .
she said , no i have nothing tangible of my family , nothing at all , they 're some albums and stuff if you can find them it.ll mean a lot to me .
in a while , she pointed ahead to a decrepit , dock , and i slowly motored over and tied off to one of the pilings .
i said , i 'll make it as quick as i can .
i noticed she had the pistol out and was fingering it nervously .
i added , hang in there kid , just do n't get trigger happy and shoot me .
as a precaution , i strapped on the 357 although i was sure the only things , i was going to encounter , were bushes and maybe a four legged varmint or snake .
i went ashore , connie said , call skipper take him with you .
i hollered for skipper he jumped in and swam over to me , then shook .
i had to chop my way to the house using the machete skipper tramping in the bushes ahead , nature had been doing a good job reclaiming her domain .
i hacked my way through wax myrtles and weeds toward the back porch .
skipper growled , then barked i looked up and froze there just a few feet in front of me on a vine strangled metal post was a human skull with tufts of blond hair still attached , its hollow eye sockets staring directly at me .
i knew from what connie had told me it undoubtedly belonged to her younger sister vickie , and a wave of nausea swept over me .
i had made a career out of digging up remains , they had been ancient and anonymous , this skull was different , it had belonged to a vivacious twenty year old women who had begged and pleaded for her life as she was savagely raped , tortured , then methodically butchered alive just for the sake of her meat .
i muttered damn you bastards to hell and felt rage building within in me .
i passed by the macabre object , ordered skipper to stay , and entered the back door .
the house had been empty for several months yet one look at the manner of disarray and i could tell it had been a house of terror as it exuded an air of malevolence and though it was stiflingly hot i felt a cold chill ran through me .
i quickly made my way through the rooms to the places connie had directed me , and found the two albums and jewelry box along with most of the other items .
on the floor by the bed was a picture frame lying face down i picked it up and turned it over , looking back at me was a happy smiling family with connie at the center in her graduation gown .
i placed the objects in a pillowcase remembering that day when skinny held my pillowcase in his grubby murderous hand , i cursed them both again , coming to this house had made connie 's nightmare mine .
i walked out the back door skipper had what appeared to be a human femur in his mouth .
i said , skipper drop that , right now .
i sat the pillowcase down , picked up the bone , and quickly went over to an open spot in the yard .
i dug a hole with the machete and my hands , and then carefully placed in the femur .
i removed the skull from the post , and with all the gentleness i could muster placed it next to the femur , and covered them up .
i felt the least i could do was to give these vestiges of connie 's family the respect and courtesy they had n't received in life .
when i had finished , i stood for a moment , then said .
dear victoria parker , if there is a god , i know he has surely taken you to his bosom , all i can do is apologize on behalf of humanity for the suffering inflicted on you by those vile monsters .
skipper and i made our way back to the boat i handed connie what had been collected .
she noticed my tense expression and asked , what is it , what did you find ?
i said , everythings fine honey , let 's get going , this place has a creepy feeling about it , i 'll cast off you run the boat .
that evening we anchored off the old gibson dry dock connie had the albums out going through them .
they had been a fine looking family , and i could n't help being moved by the pictures of vickie .
i had only known her as the skull i had buried , and the thought , that the ground , i had walked on earlier , was littered with the bones of these people disturbed me greatly .
i made no mention of finding the skull , but that night as we lay in the v berth i held connie my ear pressed to her breast listening to her heartbeat and soft breathing .
laying there wide awake i desperately needed to hold and feel her warmth in my arms .
i thought the day , i had found her , had truly been the best day of my life .
by late morning , we reached green cove springs bridge we waited for low tide and just managed to squeak through even though the perspective from the deck gave the illusion the mast would hit halfway above the spreaders .
i had hoped to make it in two days but we decided not to push it and to layover just south of jacksonville and go through town at slack water then pick up the outgoing tide which should bring us into mayport by early afternoon at the latest .
going through jacksonville was eerie the once bustling city strangely quiet , deserted and forlorn i could see why people were so loath to return to such places as they were now monuments to the dead , destined to become the relics for some future generation of archeologists to explore .
i had been worried about the drawbridges , but they were raised we chugged along past vessels sunk and half sunk and it was n't until we came to the port that there was any sign of life .
three ships were in the process of unloading , and we passed another being shepherded along with the help of two tugs .
i had expected this stretch of the river to be deserted , but there were vessels of every description , some at anchor others rafted together and it was like following a street .
i called mayport on the vhf and told them we were surreal and requested directions to a berth , at first i had some trouble until .
i said , this is captain george collins i am coming at the request of captain allan bright .
the voice said , captain collins , what is your current position and what type vessel are you ?
i said , were just coming abreast the intra coastal at mile point , we are a 30 foot hunter sloop .
he asked , is that a sailboat ?
i said , thats affirmative .
he said , are you under power or sail sir ?
i said , both at present .
he said , stand by surreal .
a few minutes went by .
surreal please proceed to the entrance mayport basin a launch will meet you at the security net and escort you in .
as we approached the security barrier , a gray navy launch appeared a voice on the radio said , captain collins , please follow me .
i replied , we can only make four knots .
the voice said , thats fine sir , we 'll wait on you .
we followed the launch into the packed basin it seemed every ship in the united states navy was here rafted together packed in like sardines .
we passed the giant aircraft carrier george washington , it made the hunter seem like a toy in a bathtub the mast reaching less than halfway to the flight deck we reached a clear spot but the side of the pier was almost at spreader height .
the voice on the radio said , sir , it might be better if you anchored off for present , i 'll stand by to take you ashore when youre ready , captain bright has been informed and is expecting you .
he got no argument from me the pier walls would certainly damage the hunters hull and rigging , and i did n't relish connie and me climbing the slippery rungs in the wall .
we dropped and set the anchor there must have been close to fifty of feet of water as i put out almost two hundred feet of rode before i was satisfied the ground tackle would hold , i signaled the launch and it came alongside and took us aboard .
the ensign said , i 'm sorry sir captain bright did n't expect you to arrive by private yacht .
i 'll make arrangements to get you into a proper berth tomorrow if thats alright with you .
i nodded the launch headed to shore , and i thought what in the hell am i getting into .
i glanced over at connie and almost hoped she would lean over and whisper in my ear , george its time to go home .
we reached the landing there was a car waiting the ensign jumped to open the door , we were driven around to the administration building and ushered down hallways until we came to the office with capt .
allan bright commander south east district stenciled on the door .
we entered , and i said , captain collins to see captain bright .
the secretary knocked on the door and said , sir , captain collins is here .
i heard allan say , thanks , sherry , send him in .
allan got up came around the desk and said , come in captain collins , or would you prefer doctor ?
i said , i been doctor for ever , captain makes me feel all new and shiny .
he laughed , came over and shook hands and with a wave of his hand invited us to sit .
george , i 'm sorry , i 've gotten you here under false pretenses , i had my sights set to get you on as a river pilot or something but in doing some checking .
i discovered youve made quite a name for yourself over the years .
youve published a number of papers , and a couple of spreads in national geographic , along with a series on the history channel .
what drew my interest were the papers you did on the theory of man thing and that tirade on the state of affairs .
understand you caught a lot of flack over those , forced you into early retirement .
well , it turned out in the end you got it pretty much right , but i 'm sure you 're not reveling in your vindication .
i decided maybe it would be a good idea to kick your name upstairs and they were surprisingly quick to ask me to invite you up for the meeting day after tomorrow .
i 'll give it to you a nutshell , losing over two thirds of the population in a year has everybody running shit scared .
hell people are still dying by the time it all is sorted out , theyll probably be less than 50 million of us americans left .
this symposium is an attempt to find ways to straighten out this mess .
the best minds left are meeting to come up with a new plan that will keep something like this from repeating in another hundred years or so .
for once , you 'll find everythings on the table , nuts , guts , and feathers some of the proposals are downright radical thats why i 'd like you to throw your hat in the ring .
there arent many gray hairs in the bunch which makes you an elder , take advantage of it and if you have any anything to add nows the best time to do it while your stars at its zenith .
i think these guys are ready to listen , at least they realize now the way weve been doing things , does n't work .
it 's a brave new world out there , nature 's given us another chance and it 's up to us to get it right this time .
with some luck , we can get rid of a lot the crap we 've been saddled with for the last few thousand years and set things to rights .
i said , jesus , i thought , connie and i were coming up here to catch a ride on a super tanker or something .
hell , i havent even thought about making policy , it was all the policy crap got us into this mess in the first place .
if i understand you correctly , it sounds like you 're getting ready to declare war on religion and go head to head with the pope , ayatollahs and everybody else .
i agree old time religion is outdated , but blindly attacking it is the wrong way to go , and its not going to work .
ive modified many of my views since i wrote the original article .
i attacked religion but have since come to believe we are endued with an innate sense of spiritualism .
we are born religious creatures , and it 's a non starter to deny it .
if you think , i 'm going to take them all on head to head you 're barking up the wrong tree .
bright said , george do n't pull that reluctant crap , you were trying to radically change policy when you came out with that man the extension of nature crap , you felt strongly enough about it to put your career on the line .
now you have a willing audience , and you want to back off .
look , stick it out for a week , put your two bits worth in then you and connie can high tail it back to the lake .
i said , if anythings going to change , it has to be done in such a way people can get their arms around it .
there has to be something in it to fulfill the basic spiritual need we all harbor within us .
the minute you start trampling on people 's beliefs the more entrenched they become .
the best that can happen is someone will ignite a new spark and hopefully it will grow into a fire .
allan said , your right , thats why i wanted you here i 'm glad you came .
by the way , in all my digging , i came across your old service records , took them almost a month to get here , seems youve been holding out on me , nrotc , active duty during nam and all those years in the reserves .
i can do a lot better for you than a river pilot .
i took the liberty of putting you in for a commission , damn good thing you like that title captain .
we 're so shorthanded right now its pathetic , all of our resources are going toward feeding the population and the armed forces no longer exist except on paper .
i ca n't even fly a helicopter , no jet fuel , maybe in a year or so we 'll be back in business .
right now , we got ships and boats laid up all over the place i could n't even get you into a berth .
you saw the basin , looks like a junkyard , all front line ships , and not enough fuel or provisions to get even one of them to sea , and it 's a helluva lot worse in the rest of the country .
the coast guard and army corp of engineers are the kings for the moment , it 's usually the other way round the navy taking us over in times of crisis but as this is a national emergency of the first magnitude , we 've had all the available resources dumped in our laps .
hell there is n't any international threats at the moment everyones too busy with their own problems to harass their neighbors .
think of it , world peace for the first time , not one war going on anywhere .
look , you need some time to get settled in , if you like , i can arrange quarters for you and connie .
i said , we 've never spent a night together on dry ground , thanks , but i think we 'll pass , at least until tomorrow when we get the hunter squared away .
i looked over at connie she had sat listening intently and had n't made a comment .
i said , i think connie , and i are going to need a little time to chew on this .
he said , i can understand , all this coming at once must be overwhelming , your welcome to stay for dinner and meet some of the others , if not i 'll have a gig take you back .
i said , thanks , i do n't want you to think were being antisocial , but we really have to mull on this and besides we do n't have anything civilized to wear to dinner anyway .
he said , take the night off , and think it over , we 'll get you situated tomorrow , my wife will be more than happy to help connie get outfitted .
on the ride back to the boat i asked connie , what do you think we could slip out of here tonight and be halfway back to palatka by morning ?
she said , its tempting but what captain bright says makes sense .
gw , this is a pivotal point in human history , if theres a chance of making a difference its worth a try .
you never told me you published any papers on the subject , but they must have impressed the hell out of somebody .
go to these meetings and have your say , and when we go home , you 'll feel like maybe you have paid your dues , as i told you before i believe in destiny .
do n't worry about me we 've stood shoulder to shoulder throughout this whole damn thing if i have to share you with the rest of the world for a little while i know there 's always going to be enough left over for me .
i said , those papers were never meant for publication , it was a screwed up time in my life , and i wrote them out of frustration , just to vent my anger about what all was going on .
one of my grad students , snooping through my desk came across them and the bastard plastered them all over the net , the only thing , they accomplished , was to ruin my career .
i dont know how in the hell bright came across them , but i wish he hadnt .
the launch dropped us off and the ensign said , captain collins they 'll have a berth open for you by 0800 we 'll come by and escort you in , if you need anything just contact us on vhf 16 , have a good evening sir .
he saluted , and the gig pulled away .
after supper , we chatted , and i said , i really do n't know what to expect i guess just play it by ear .
i feel like i 'm being swept along in a strong current the best thing , to do for now , is to go with the flow .
hell honey i do n't even know if i 'm going into the coast guard or back in the navy .
connie said , it 's been a revealing day , first the papers and then finding out you were in the navy and an officer at that !
i said , i do n't go around advertising it .
the navy put me through school i had dues to pay , it just so happened to coincide with a controversial war .
i 've always had mixed feelings about it i was proud to serve my country , on the one hand , i did n't like dealing with buddies i felt died for no good reason .
it was hard enough teaching at a liberal school without reminding them i was once considered a baby killer , besides it was a long time ago .
she asked , what were you in the navy ?
i said , engineering mostly , a stint in gunnery for a while .
she said , no i meant what rank ?
i said , came out into the reserves a lieutenant .
was that good ?
some guys thought so , but i always felt like i was caught in the middle .
the job came with a lot of responsibility , folks below had a tendency to hate you because youre the one dishing it out , while those on top shoved all their problems on you and expected you to make them go away , youre always on your toes , catching it from both sides .
its supposed to give you the right mindset and prepare you to assume command .
lets just say it was n't a happy time for an introvert .
god , i sure hope were not getting in over our heads .
kid , if you even catch a whiff of anything smelly in all of this , drag my ass out of here and back to the glen .
that night we made unadulterated , love our passion for each other a constant in an ever changing world .
the gig arrived right on time a young sailor came aboard and hauled in the anchor .
i made no objection as i had been looking with trepidation toward pulling in all that rode and the big cqr .
he directed us to a floating dock and into a slip much more suited to the needs of the small sailboat .
skipper , who had learned to pee over the lifelines like a pro , had been holding his bowels and was eagerly looking forward to dry land .
allan and his wife doris were there to meet us , after introductions allan said , george we might as well get the ball rolling , doris will take connie shopping and we 'll meet back up for lunch .
he looked at his watch and said , lets say late lunch two oclock .
the driver dropped allan , and i off and whisked the two women away before i could say goodbye to connie .
allan said , let 's get you processed and into uniform .
i said , i hate to appear nave , but just what in the hell am i going to be anyway ?
he answered , a captain in the united states coast guard by the time we walk out of here .
i said , how in the hell did you swing something like that ?
he said , well , it 's usually done through the direct commission officer program , things are a little screwed up at the moment , just say i went about fig niggling a few strings .
still it 's on the up and up .
he added , do n't worry youre not going to be shanghaied , and sent halfway around the world you and connie will be reunited by lunch .
after a whirlwind morning of filling out forms , being prodded , poked , and sworn in , i emerged dressed in dazzling summer whites .
the military bearing which i had acquired and lost all those years before seemed to slip on as easily as did the uniform , i felt myself standing just a tad bit straighter and as we walked down the hall and i saluted for the first time i thought , you know it 's true , the uniform does make the man .
we were finished just in time to meet the ladies for lunch .
the car pulled up and connie stepped out , i felt my breath involuntarily suck in , standing before me was the prettiest green eyed blond i had ever seen , her lithe body sheathed in a smart summer frock .
i looked her over , from her newly done up hair to the high heels .
i stood taking in the vista in front of me both of us stood transfixed staring as if seeing each other for the very first time .
finally , i could resist no longer , walked over and gave her a kiss , in all our time together we had never seen each other dressed up .
i said , honey you literally took my breath away .
she said , mine as well , you look so wonderfully military .
allan said , come on guys , you can admire each other and strut your stuff while i 'm introducing you to some of the people youre going to be working with .
allan had been right , there was hardly a gray hair in the bunch most seemed as young as high school kids , the collapse had taken its heaviest toll on the baby boom generation , and it along with all its problems had faded into history .
allan shuffled us from one group to another stopping for a just a perfunctory introduction and handshake .
connie glided along shaking hands and smiled at all the right times , totally at ease as if she had been doing it all her life .
it was the first time i had the opportunity to witness her at a social event , and i was truly impressed .
i also noticed she studied some individuals more than others as if sizing them up .
at lunch , allan said , i have bios on everybody attending i 'll get them to you , so you have some idea of who you are dealing with , their qualifications and views .
i do n't think theres anyone in this bunch that has worked together so it 's open season , i 'm sure by the end of the week theyll be more than one alliance formed .
i took the liberty to make a note on those most likely to agree with your points of view but do n't take it to the bank .
allan looked over at connie and said , i was watching you young lady youve got a sharp mind behind that pretty face .
george , turn connie loose in the middle of that bunch , and i guarantee she 'll have the draft of every one them by the end of the evening .
i said , allan why are you digging so deep into this thing anyway ?
he said , i read your papers ca n't say i agree with all of it but there was enough good stuff that it struck a chord .
it convinced me that maybe its time for us to look at life from a different perspective , throw out a lot of the excess baggage we have collected as humans and start again with what we now know to be fact .
the human race has grown up we no longer need pretend bedtime stories , what happened was a reality check , it had very little to do with god and everything to do with human nature , just as you said .
i guess im guilty to the extent of trying to use you as my vehicle , but dammit , nows the time , there arent enough muslims left in the middle east to get up a soccer match , what nuclear war did n't wipe out famine did .
religions the world over have been brought to their knees , it 's time to clobber them before a new generation becomes infected with their stale old ideas .
we 're spiritual beings , but i believe as you say it originates from nature not some mysterious cosmic entity .
i 'm sorry george , a senior captain in the united states coast guard should stick to only those things in his line of duty , but i watched the whole of civilization come apart like a cardboard box in a tornado .
i also feel i have an obligation as a human being to do something to keep it from happening again .
when this meeting was announced it all came together , i used some pull and here we are .
i listened closely and felt relieved by what allan had just said .
allan thanks , what you told me clears up a lot of the doubts i had , i was n't entirely sure this was n't going to be some kind of military coup .
i apologize i had it all wrong .
i had this nagging suspicion you were buttering me up to be some kind of figurehead or something , i no longer doubt your sincerity and you can count on me being on board , get those bios to me and i 'll start working on them .
i have no doubt it 's all going to come down to a battle of wills and as they say , a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still , i do n't know what i can do , but i 'll strike while the irons hot .
seeing these young kids , i doubt if i make any kind of impression , hell half of them will probably place bets on whether i 'm going to croak on the podium .
as we walked out after lunch , i pulled allan aside and asked , where does a guy find wedding rings these days ?
he smiled and said , no problem the base commissary will fix you right up .
the driver dropped connie off at the boat i made the excuse i had an errand to run connie said it was all right she was going to try on clothes .
i said , be back in a jiffy .
the driver took me to the commissary i looked through the meager selection of engagement rings and managed to find one i liked , tried it on my little finger and knew it would fit connie i signed for it and hurried back to the boat .
in my absence , the bios had been dropped off , and connie already had them spread out and was reading through them .
she said , some of these are impressive , but i think there might be a couple of bad apples in the bunch .
i said , there usually is , your going to the meeting with me tomorrow they got you down as my assistant so you 'll have all day to size them up , do n't forget were having dinner with the brights .
she said , you old fox , i did n't know you were harboring any doubts so thats why you 've been so antsy ever since we decided to come .
did you really think there was some grand conspiracy afoot ?
i said , i was n't sure what was afoot , leastways nothing i was going to put into words , if i had , youd been the first to know .
we had a convivial dinner with the brights afterward allan and i chatted on the porch , i asked allan , i 'm curious as to why a captain is heading up the whole show i figured they would at least have a two star running the base ?
george its , a long story , just say i was in the wrong place at the right time , and yes i 'm only a senior captain , they tried to make me everything including grand poo bah .
i turned it down , did n't want to ride around with my flag following me and a bunch of staff tripping over each other , licking my boots , kissing my ass , and generally getting in the way of things .
as it is , i can do what i want , when i want , and how i want , stay low key and not intimidate my underlings that is unless i really want to .
i only answer to the president otherwise i 'm he who must be obeyed .
i like the rank of captain it 's best for getting things done yet still commands respect as you 'll find out .
i had the feeling bright was side stepping , so tried to pin him down by asking , what did happen to all the admirals and generals , shouldnt they be playing a major part in this ?
he said , technically theyre retired generals and admirals are trained to fight wars on foreign soil , right now were fighting for our lives right here at home .
it was felt if the top brass were put in charge they would place too much emphasis on keeping their commands intact .
the coast guard , on the other hand , is a bastard child part of homeland security and already had a mandate to operate within the country .
thats the abridged version truth is it will be up to the indians to pull us out of this mess and the last thing , they need , is a bunch of chiefs getting in the way .
i like to think of myself as an expeditor , helping clear the road blocks so those in the know can get on with their jobs .
what he said made sense , the military guys first responsibility were to their own kind whereas bright could primarily concentrate on the civilization population while still having authority over the military and its assets .
strange circumstances called for even stranger measures , and these were strange circumstances indeed .
still all hed given me was the abridged version and i was pretty sure he had left out the more interesting aspects .
we said our good nights and after the driver dropped us off i said , sweetie it 's such a nice night do you mind if we take a walk before turning in ?
we ambled along the wharf hand in hand i stopped and turned toward her .
connie i 've received a few titles and accolades over the years , but there is one i find myself wishing for and will covet , above all others , that of your husband .
constance francine parker will you marry me and make me your husband ?
she stopped , feigned surprise , and then grinned .
why george collins youre finally offering to make an honest woman out of me .
yes of course i 'll marry you every husband needs a wife , and i will also covet the title above all others .
i slipped the engagement ring on her finger , and we held each other and kissed .
i said , when i saw how beautiful you were today i thought id better get you branded before these young studs start crowding around .
she said , gw collins , do declare , i believe i detect just a hint of jealousy .
i said , not a bit , i 'd prefer to call it preemptive strategy .
she giggled like a schoolgirl .
we took comfort in knowing our relationship had solidified into granite .
i arose early and skimmed through the bios there would be plenty of time to study them and get to know the individuals in person .
for now , my main concern was just what in the hell i was going to say to these people , as i was the first scheduled speaker .
there had been no chance to make notes , or write a speech , i was going to have to wing it and think on my feet .
connie asked , how do you feel , you going to be alright ?
you look like you got butterflies .
hell yes , i got butterflies as big as blackbirds , last week we were in our little slice of heaven happier than we had any right to be .
now look at me , cooped up in this zoot suit , about to get up in front of a bunch ive never seen before , giving a lecture that might get me stoned to death on the rostrum .
i 'm just glad this uniform is mostly for decoration , and i can take it off and we can flee back to paradise when this damned thing is over .
she said , do n't worry you 'll do fine , i 'll be right there rooting , just get up and knock em dead .
the car dropped us off allan was out front to greet us .
he said , i did n't want to miss this , got your speech all written out ?
i said , right now its occupying about three brain cells thats as far as i 've got .
we walked in the hall was already filling up .
here and there small groups huddled together as the delegates discussed various aspects of the weeks workshops .
it was the first day , and everyone was busy feeling out each others views on the subjects that were to be discussed .
we wandered the aisles chatting as we went .
the meeting was called to order by one of the only other gray heads present , dr. robert binder who had an outstanding reputation in the field of sociobiology .
bob had been responsible for changing my view of mankind and was in large part the inspiration for man the extension of nature .
i was looking forward to talking with him throughout the week .
he began , good morning ladies and gentlemen you have been invited here in an attempt to chart our path forward out of this crisis .
seldom if ever have so many varied disciplines been assembled under the same roof , most of us are at present strangers yet we share a commonality , the wish that we may expeditiously find solutions to the myriad of problems we now find ourselves faced with .
the undertaking at hand is undoubtedly the greatest that has ever confronted mankind , we here gathered are charged with the daunting task of putting a completely ruined planet back on its feet .
it is going to require that each of us rise above his or her personal interests and think only to the greater good of humanity .
it is imperative that we strive to get this right as the lives and welfare not only of us as human beings but of all creation is in our hands .
let us pray that we have in this room the talent , means , and wisdom to accomplish this endeavor .
thank you .
the first speaker will be a friend and colleague of mine doctor george walter collins , who has over the years worked extensively in the field of archeology .
he wishes to speak today on a different subject , that of the spiritually of man .
please welcome doctor collins .
as i reached the podium i panned over the audience , they were a varied lot from well dressed wall street types to some who looked like they were auto mechanics on break , i took a deep breath and began .
good morning ladies and gentlemen , i 'd like to begin by saying although i am wearing the uniform of a coast guard captain i represent neither the coast guard nor the government of the united states .
the views , i express today , are strictly my own , i speak to you only as a concerned member of the human race .
i 'm sure most of you have read my bio as i have yours , therefore , let me cut to the chase , instead of rehashing my theory on man the extension of nature .
i would like to concentrate on one point which has been passed over yet i have come to consider of utmost importance , especially at this particular juncture in history .
the origins of the spiritual side of human existence its always been my perception and i suppose many others that man invented spiritualism as a way for him to come to grips with his unique existence and to rationalize the difference between himself and all the other creatures surrounding him .
throughout the millennia , he has concentrated mainly on those differences which set him apart so much so , in fact that he eventually came to believe himself to be a totally separate creation .
this view persisted up until the last few centuries when we came to realize we are all interrelated and that all creatures including us share much the same genetic makeup , the building blocks of life .
we have also discovered that every trait , which makes us human , can also be found in one species , or another whether it be rudimentary intelligence , language , tool making or even emotions .
we also thought humans had little or no innate instincts , but that view has also changed .
nature , to whom we owe our very existence , is by no means omniscient to the contrary , if you look at the fossil record you will see for the entire history of life on earth she has stumbled around exploring the edges of the envelope inventing all manner of creature in order to exploit every available resource .
yet it was only when she stumbled upon man with his unique body plan and mental abilities that she was finally able to break through the wall of ignorance that imprisoned her .
for the very first time , she could begin manipulating all those earthly resources we take for granted today ... well at least we did until the collapse came along .
as early hominids developed so did certain instincts , these were to act as rudimentary guides for this new and untested creature .
i refer to them for want of a better term as training wheels for they were designed to be discarded as the species mentally evolved and gained the function of higher cognitive reasoning .
i have come to believe among these instincts is the one we call spirituality , instilled in humans so as to drive the species to search for and explore its very origins .
this sense of spiritually may also have been intended as a way to govern our transition from the innate to the sentient , if so it may well be unique to humans as other creatures have been shown to have conscience .
nature has had hundred of millions of years to perfect bone , muscle , eyes , ears , teeth , and claws but only an instant in geological time to attempt to perfect higher reasoning and the other unique instincts instilled in us , therefore it 's only reasonable to assume they must still contain some flaws .
evolution is a very slow process yet we humans with our enormous brains and the ability to learn have advanced at such a phenomenal rate our training wheels are spinning so fast theyre smoking .
they have taken us and nature pell mell into all sorts of uncharted territory where no other species has ever ventured , we have in certain respects outrun our training wheels and advanced evolution to the point that we ourselves were within a whiskers breath of becoming the creators of life , thus in essence bringing us and nature full circle .
as we advanced , relying on this imperfect sense of spiritually it allowed for man to create shortcuts in order to explain those things he could not yet comprehend .
he began to devise his own theories of creation from the simple to the elaborate they acted as crutches helping early man deal with the unknown .
over time , these stories evolved into increasingly elaborate myths , and these myths became ingrained dogma protected by holy men who evolved into enforcers wielding great power and expending their energy in an attempt to keep their myths relevant .
religions instead of celebrating and encouraging our spirituality have for the most part contrived to harness and exploit it for their own purposes .
evolution can be slowed but not stopped for along with spirituality there are other forces at work such as higher reasoning that drives mankind relentlessly forward .
this drive to acquire knowledge created the conflicts between myth and reality we observe today as being the rift between religion and science .
it was n't the inner sense of spirituality itself that was at fault , just a small natural flaw which allowed it to be subjugated in various ways .
ladies and gentleman , we have and i 'll use the word , trashed our planet by allowing certain of our innate drives to trump our newly acquired reason .
there is no other explanation as i can not bring myself to believe any decent deity with the infinite wisdom , ability and power to create the universe and our little planet would idly stand by without lifting a finger while his most prized creations slaughtered each other in his name and wrecked his handycraft .
on the other hand i can well understand mother nature using the flawed creature called man with his newly acquired abilities moving forward exploring down every avenue like a curious child would likely in her headlong dash to explore the unknown , make the occasional blunder .
nature is in many ways the personification of perfect imperfection , and we have to change our way of thinking and realize that she is no wiser than wisest among us .
i think we as a species have reached the point where our ability to reason has to take precedence over our instincts we are in the transitional period where it is imperative for the future of our species that we learn to ride on our own .
rather than attempting to set ourselves apart from nature we must come to the realization we are in fact nature our drives are natures , and that her deity resides within each and every one of us .
the time has come to quit searching for that far away illusionary nirvana and assume the role for which we were created , a valued tool of nature , aiding her in the advancement of all life .
i can assure you it was never natures intention we should use are abilities to cover every inch of the planet with humans or exterminate ourselves along with almost every other species .
it was rather her intention that we should learn to build on our natural given talents and abilities , to create for ourselves and all creatures a better and enlightened world on which to live .
our reward for getting it right will be to enter into that long sought after heaven .
not in some far off mysterious place but right here on this very earth !
it is of the utmost importance we explore every avenue possible in order to bring spiritually and reality together on the same path and find ways to put a stop to these never ending religious conflicts before they finally fulfill their malicious prophesies and utterly destroy what little remains of civilization .
it is quite possible the future of the human race is assembled in this room .
the conclusions , we reach by the end of the week , may well and in large measure determine whether our species continues on to again flourish or condemns future generations to repeat the armageddon we have just put ourselves through .
ladies and gentlemen i 'm not asking that we abandon our spirituality we can not because it is a part of our very genetic makeup bestowed upon us by our creator , nature .
all , i ask , is at the very least we make an honest and earnest attempt to reconcile our spiritually with current facts and proceed forward on a path that will allow us to enter into a new and enlightened era .
let me finish by saying , i spent my life digging through failed civilizations never once imagining i would become a living part of one , nor did i believe i would be forced to survive , isolated from all others of my species and be hunted like an animal .
i do not believe this is a legacy any of us wishes to pass on to our future progeny , as it is we are leaving them with enough of our mistakes to keep them occupied for several generations .
let us gathered here today go down in history as the first group who made the tough decisions and for once got things right .
thank you for allowing me this opportunity to come before you today .
i look forward with hope to our working together and that we shall leave mayport with a blueprint for a new and better life , not only for humankind but for the planet and all our fellow creatures as well .
now i 'll turn it back to my distinguished colleague dr. binder .
i walked off the platform to a round of applause , i had n't thought what i said deserved it , but much of the audience was standing .
i shook hands as i made my way back to connie and allan , he said , if you did that off the cuff on three brain cells i ca n't wait to see you firing on all eight , george i think you got the point across and i did n't see anyone who seemed particularly offended .
i said , i had the good fortune to be the first speaker theyre on their best behavior , i bet by wednesday they 'll be throwing shoes .
connie was beaming , i said , christ honey you look like the cheshire cat .
she said , i ca n't help it , that was a moving speech you looked like one of the disciples standing there all dressed in white .
i said , see guys we ca n't get rid of religion its ingrained in us , part of everyday speech .
the workshops went on for over a week , most of it was stuff i had no business poking my nose into like salvaging infrastructure , transportation , food production , organizing the government , preserving culture , and what would be the new model for the economy .
i was cheered by the fact that finally the ever expanding model had fallen out of favor and was in the process of being scrapped .
i did put in my two bits on population control as i felt it was the key to mankinds future .
i said we should stabilize the population where it winds up for that would most likely be the sustainable levels which should allow us to continue to prosper yet not adversely impact nature .
we should then be able to enjoy all she has to offer and still progress without having any deleterious effects .
personally , i thought of sustainability as being able to enjoy a large piece of black grouper once in awhile knowing i was n't consuming the last of the species .
i felt had we managed to continue galloping along with no collapse it would have led to the human race consuming soylent green .
i felt i had done my bit and put the bug into a few open ears , one turn on the soapbox was enough it was never my ambition to be the leader of a movement just to grease the wheels a little and get them moving .
connie , on the other hand , was having a ball she had wormed her way into the group of marine biologists and was immersed in whatever biologists get immersed in .
it was the first chance she had to use her degree and she was tickled at finally having the chance to practice her craft .
it was bittersweet we were readjusting to society after our isolation , yet there was a part of us that longed to get back to our little private domain .
i was at loose ends , outside of attending meetings i found myself with little to do .
i cornered allan , how come you talked me into this monkey suit anyway , hell , all i 've been doing , is strutting around like a damned peacock returning salutes , is n't a captain supposed to have a ship or something ?
he said , if that 's all that 's bothering you go pick out one of those frigates in the basin and tell everyone youre her captain .
hell things are so messed up between the navy and us right now nobody would ever know the difference .
you wo n't have a crew , there in hastings digging potatoes or spread all over hell 's creation .
except for the old george washington out there generating electricity , we have no navy .
he chuckled , just kidding .
george i do have a command all picked out for you , it 's a research vessel pisces , cute little fellow cranes and derricks plastered all over it damn thing has been sitting around here since the collapse .
theyre working like hell on some modifications , but it wo n't be ready for a month or two , then you can take connie and go on a cruise , call it a working vacation , that suit you any better ?
hell george if you do n't get married pretty soon we 'll have to make it a honeymoon cruise , when 's the big day anyway ?
i said , with all the crap going on this week we havent had time to plan anything .
he said , do n't worry about it , i 'll turn it over to doris she loves that kinda stuff , all you , two have to do , is show up .
now get out of here , strut around base , and practice your salute , we 'll see you for dinner .
i walked out wondering what in the hell i was doing getting involved with a research vessel .
ever since i had met allan bright , it seemed all , he 'd done , was go out of his way to turn my quiet life inside out .
i felt competent running the hunter , but a large research vessel , hell it had been damn near forty years since i had stood on the bridge of a ship in any capacity other than being a passenger .
yeah , allan had a unique way of yanking me out of my comfort zone .
i had grown to like allan and had to admit that so far he seemed to keep my best interests at heart , but captain of a research ship , it might as well be one of those frigates out there in the basin or even that super tanker i kidded connie about .
well , i thought at least connie would be in her element a marine biologist on a research ship .
then i thought what in the hell is the mission going to be , i 'm sure were not going to revisit the titanic .
oh well let 's just keep going with the flow in the end it will all come out in the wash .
i was curious and had the driver run me by the ship it was a trim little noaa vessel with a white hull and high superstructure .
there seemed to be much hot work and other activity taking place on the foredeck .
i sat debating on whether to get out and wander around then thought better of it and told the driver to go on .
after dinner , while doris and connie sat at the dining room table going over the details of the coming nuptials allan and i drifted into the living room .
i asked allan , what business do i have on a damned research ship anyway .
well , george it 's kinda a double edged mission , outwardly you 're going to cruise the antilles checking on the ecosystem to see what impact the collapse had on it .
as for the other part , we do n't know diddlysquat about whats been going on in the caribbean over the last year , that 's where you come in , you 've worked all over the area and know the people .
you can get a good picture of conditions down there bring back the facts and make recommendations .
i ca n't send the cutters out just to explore , christ i ca n't even get them back in key west .
i said , hate to tell you this , but all my work was in central america ive only been to the islands as a tourist and as for running a damn ship do n't worry about running the boat i have a couple of great guys i 'll assign to you they 'll be your right and left arms just let them run the day to day stuff and they 'll teach you as you go , by the time you get back you 'll be an old salt .
i retorted , hell im already an old salt .
george it 's all a state of mind how can you be old when you 're getting married to that gorgeous young creature in there , you look younger every day , hell just putting on that uniform ironed out most of the wrinkles , look at your face smooth as a babies .
i couldnt help from grinning , allan i still believe theres a hell for lairs but thanks anyway .
connie and doris came in and announced the date was set for saturday morning afterward for a honeymoon we would take the hunter and escape back to our little paradise .
connie and i returned to the boat and took great pleasure in rehearsing for our wedding night .
four in the morning i awoke to someone knocking on the boat .
captain collins , captain collins .
i got up , what is it .
opening the hatch .
sorry to wake you sir but you 're ordered to come with me immediately , its urgent .
i asked , what 's it about ?
he said , do n't rightly know sir .
i asked , whats the uniform ?
he said , id say dress down sir .
i said , ok , i 'll be with you in a minute .
he said , sir , captain bright requested i drop mrs. collins off at his quarters .
connie was up by this time and asked .
what 's going on ?
i said , you heard the man , were married and guess we missed out on the honeymoon altogether , better get dressed .
as the car speed away from the boat , i asked again , have any idea whats going on ?
not really sir , something about a hijacking and pirates , i just know it has the whole base on alert .
we pulled up , i just had time to lean over and give connie a quick kiss before i was hustled into the building .
i entered operations it was abuzz with activity , i stood feeling conspicuously out of place while everyone in the room swirled around me .
it was a minute before allan noticed and said , george sorry to get you up and drag you in at this god awful hour but we have a serious problem and i need everyone on deck .
less than two hours ago we received a distress call from an inbound tanker the samuel spelling she reported being under attack , not by some somali pirate types using inflatables , but by what they said was a full fledged warship .
it was dark they could n't get a good look just that it was big , fast , firing guns , and closing on them , they gave a dr position about here 30 10' 39 '' n. by 078 53' 58 '' w. then went off the air .
he put his finger on a large chart spread on the table .
it 's about hundred and fifty nautical from here i 've only got two cutters that are in any condition to put to sea , mohawk , and thetis .
george this is serious business , the loss of that ship could mean more people are going to die .
i 'd like you to go along and observe , gain some experience , maybe do a little something to earn those stripes .
i said , i 'll just get in the way .
he said , do n't argue , father knows best , doris and i will watch over connie .
commander abe gully will be your skipper , great officer loads of experience you two should get along splendidly .
i 've assigned lieutenant bishop here as your aide , jimmy will be with you on mohawk good luck and happy hunting .
we pulled alongside the cutter was alive with last minute preparations .
i walked up the gangway saluted and came aboard .
commander gully said , welcome aboard captain collins , chief evens will show to your quarters , afraid you and the lieutenant are going to have to share , not much room on a cutter .
time , you get settled in we , should be out of here and i 'll have more time to fill you in .
as we made our way through the cramped passageway to the compartment i felt relieved gully had n't shown any animosity as to the fact i outranked him and hadnt been in uniform for over thirty years much less ever set foot on a cutter before .
i was determined to keep a low profile , my mouth shut , and to stay out of the way and would n't so much as touch a light switch unless someone instructed me to .
the lowest rating aboard knew more about this boat than i did i quietly cursed allan under my breath for getting me into this mess .
i was leaning on the rail as the cutter passed the sea buoy , the first streaks of daylight defining the horizon .
jim came up and said , sir , commander .
gully wishes to see you on the bridge .
i still had n't gotten used to the sir part though i knew it was directed more at the rank on the uniform than the man in it , i nodded and made my way to the bridge and entered .
gully said , sorry to put you off sir , it was rather hectic getting under way as we havent had the boat out for almost a year .
i said , i understand , let 's get down to a first name basis , regardless of whats pinned on this uniform i 'm junior on this ship , you 're the captain , it was allans idea i should tag along , i 'll try my best not to get underfoot , just call me george .
well cageorge im betting theyve turned south , its just a hunch , could be there cubans , who knows .
whoever they are it appears theyve managed to get their hands on a naval vessel and enough fuel to run it .
we 're going to head in their direction try to pick them up on radar and shadow until thetis catches up , she 'll be three or four hours behind us .
i figure its taken the pirates some time to secure the ship and get under way .
i doubt the tanker is capable of making more than fifteen knots tops .
were going to stay somewhat to the west run flat out and if my hunch is correct , we should make radar contact this afternoon .
i hate being blind not even a bird to put up three years ago we 'd know what he was having for breakfast by now .
george , have jim show you around if anything crops up i 'll let you know .
i took it as a polite way of telling jim to get this damn pilgrim the hell off my bridge so i can get back to business .
i told jim , let 's take the cooks tour , start at the pointy end and work back .
i was n't a complete novice i had served time in destroyers and a few months as a junior gunnery officer on board the cruiser newport news in 72 when she along with providence and oklahoma city had shelled the crap out of haiphong harbor .
still things had changed this little cutter had a fair amount of firepower for her size , along with the accuracy to put rounds on target almost every time .
i had jim show me through every inch of the famous class cutter stopping and asking questions as we went until i felt satisfied i had a rudimentary knowledge of the little ships workings .
we broke for lunch , and afterward i turned in for a nap , this old guy wanted to be well rested if things got interesting .
jim woke me just after six and said , we 're tracking two contacts at thirty miles , has to be them .
i sat on the edge of the bunk adjusting to the roll of the cutter , rubbed my eyes , and asked , i got time for a cup of coffee ?
jim said , plenty were waiting for dark and the thetis to catch up .
as i sat at the wardroom table nursing my coffee jim said , the old man 's going to wait for dark then run in and take a peek , our night vision stuff should give us an edge , and then when the thetis arrives we can both pounce on him .
i said , sounds like a plan , i just hope it is n't some modern frigate or corvette with a load of exocets or other goodies as we 'll likely be a pile of smoldering junk before we get that peek .
i walked onto the bridge , abe said , we got a plot going its nowhere near what wed have with all the gadgets working in cic , but were in luck theyre barely making 11 knots and havent altered course since we started tracking .
looks like theyre committed to running down the straits and hugging the bahamas bank i 'm guessing the warships trailing astern , approximately 4000 meters as rear guard .
we 're still running flat out and should catch up by 2200 then we 'll move in and take a quick look , thetis will rendezvous with us around 0130 by then we 'll know what were up against .
i ca n't wait until things get back to normal and these damn cutters are operating out of key west again , were scheduled to begin moving back at the end of the month .
during the next few hours , we closed on the pair of unknown blips plodding along in the darkness .
i did n't doubt commander gully 's abilities yet could n't help thinking this was n't going to be like chasing down some run of the mill drug boat as ahead of us hidden by night could be a full fledged warship .
if so the lone cutter with her single 3 inch gun could find itself at a distinct disadvantage .
ten oclock rolled around the cutter was at general quarters , we had overtaken the trailing target and were approaching on his starboard beam , as we closed to within seven miles there was still no deviation in his course .
abe kept inching in closer , until we were separated by just 6000 thousand yards abe was on the bridge wing looking through the night vision glasses .
george he 's running black , take a look i could be wrong but is n't thats an old de one of ours i think , do n't know what class , sure rules out the cubans .
i looked through the powerful night vision glasses .
yep , it 's one of our old destroyer escorts i 'm guessing open 3 inch fore and aft , ca n't tell if theyre manned .
abe said , their radars pretty primitive just could be they do n't even know were here .
i 'm going to shadow them for a bit , maybe get a tad closer for a little better look than back off , trail them and wait for thetis .
i said , with your permission i 'd like to go down on the flight deck for a different perspective , get out of your hair , and let you get back to work .
abe nodded .
i walked out and went down the starboard stair with jim following , he had become like a siamese twin ever since we had come aboard .
we had just began making our way aft to the ladder , i was approaching the sailor manning the fifty when two explosions racked the cutter and the bridge we had just departed erupted in flames and a shower shrapnel .
the blasts knocked both jim and i flat on the narrow walkway i felt little needles pricking me in the back .
i staggered to my feet , looked at jim who was doing the same and asked , you alright , what in the hell hit us ?
he said , yeah just got some nicks , they must have opened fire .
i said , not with their main battery they could n't train and get the range that fast , two rounds right into the bridge bastard must have something special in that aft mount , we made our way back to the bridge and picked our way through the shambles of twisted jagged metal , there were dead and wounded lying in grotesque positions , in the light of the small fires i saw commander gully struggling to get to his feet and could tell he was bleeding profusely from a serious cut on his forehead .
i reached him and assisted him to his feet .
he said , they suckered us that damn aft gun , collins i can hardly see , youre senior so i 'm turning command over to you .
then he collapsed .
there was n't any time to argue i shouted , jim your my xo , i want a damage report , get some corpsmen up here on the double .
another young officer came onto the bridge i shouted , do we still have steam ?
she looked at me wide eyed and opened mouthed , we still have propulsion ?
she said , i think so , sir .
i said , take the con .
she moved to the take over the con having to partially stand on the corpse of the previous helmsman lying at her feet .
she asked , what heading sir ?
i said , just try and keep us in some sort of firing position .
does anyone know if we still have fire control ?
somewhere in the darkness i could hear mumbling .
i shouted again , fire control , yes or no !
the reply finally came , yes sir , we do now .
i said , train on target wait for my command .
i turned to jim and said , i do n't know why in the hell they havent finished us off ?
the flames died down enough that even without the night vision glasses i could clearly make out the silhouette of the destroyer it had just finished executing a 180 degree turn to port and was moving toward us on a reciprocal course .
i said , dollar to a doughnut his aft gun jammed , he 's changed course to finish us off with his forward battery , must think we 've lost all fire control or he would n't risk such a close approach .
with the glasses , i could make out his forward guns they were now manned and being trained .
i said , fire control aim for his forward batteries at or below the mounts run out the whole clip , it 's do or die , if we get lucky we might set off some of his ready stuff .
fire when ready and keep hammering him .
in a moment , the gun on the foredeck came to life spitting out projectiles the spent casings hitting the deck .
rounds cut through the night toward the destroyer just as the first three inch round went screaming over the cutter and landed a hundred yards away .
i said , if he gets off a couple more of those were goners .
the destroyer was now being hosed , hits landing all over the forward part of the ship .
it fired another round from the forward mount this time landing so close as to send up a geyser drenching the starboard side of the cutter .
i figured the next round would either hit or straddle us , within seconds , we might all be dead .
with everything going on i found an instant to think of connie , it was interrupted by a tremendous explosion .
the front of the destroyer lifted clear of the water i could see number one gun mount hurled upward then the vessel broke in two forward of the bridge the bow pointing skyward as the rest of the ship plowed into it .
our gun was still firing .
i shouted , cease fire , cease fire .
another large explosion followed , the destroyer shuttered and slowed , flames leaped into the night sky turning it into day they swept the old destroyer until it was engulfed in fire aft to the funnel , tiny figures outlined by the flames could be seen jumping over the railings , i watched transfixed in utter fascination as the destroyer quickly settled by the bow .
there was another giant explosion this time lifting the whole ship out of the water it settled rocking back and forth like a rubber duck in a bathtub then began to list sharply to port .
it increased until within a couple minutes the destroyer rolled over and capsized , the stern rose into the night sky passed forty degrees then with a series of smaller explosions , creaks , groans , and hisses plunged into the black water and disappeared .
once again , night closed in around us .
the darkness snapped me back to reality i looked around the shattered bridge and shouted for jim , he ran up .
i asked , whats our situation , do we have integrity ?
he said , yes sir one small leak starboard amidships being dealt with , nothing serious .
i asked , casualties ?
he said , so far four dead , seven serious including commander gully .
i asked the kid on the con , we have propulsion and steerage ?
she said , yes sir seems to be answering the helm ok .
i said , good , all stop lets get this mess sorted out .
jim we still got communications ?
he said , dont know sir .
i said , find out , try to get a message off to the thetis , advise them of the situation , ask them if they have contact with the tanker on their screens , if so they can take over the chase , were done .
organize a party and have them stand by to take on hostile survivors , we 'll see if we can fish around for some answers .
get another party up here and see what can be done about clearing away this mess .
of the ninety plus reported to have been on the destroyer we found only eleven survivors , our crew was well trained on handling hostiles , they were cuffed and placed on the flight deck under armed guard while a corpsman attended their wounds .
the damage to the bridge was cleared away .
the dead placed into body bags and laid on the flight deck .
i set course for mayport , turned the ship over to jim and one of the youngsters then went to get the tiny pieces of shrapnel picked out of my back , i stopped by to see abe , his face was covered in bandages .
he said , thanks for saving my ship and crew , i guess allan knew what he was doing when he sent you along .
i said , beginners luck , hell i scared the piss out of one of your kids when i asked her if we still had steam , guess it shows how long its been since i 've worked damage control .
i took my sore bandaged back and picked up where i had left off when this thing began , sitting in the wardroom cradling a mug of coffee as mohawk limped along on its way back to mayport .
i was standing on the bridge when we reached the sea buoy .
jim said , sir would you like to take her in ?
i said , hell no theres enough damage done already , i 'll give you the honor jim , remember i 'm just on board as an observer .
we tied up the wharf was packed , everyone focused on the damaged bridge .
i picked connie out of the crowd , she had skipper with her on a leash , i waved and within a few minutes we were reunited .
she flung her arms around my neck .
i said , ouch , careful i 'm a little tender back there .
still we held each other as if we had been separated for a year .
she said , i was sick with worry when we heard that the ship had been hit , i did n't know until a couple of hours ago whether you were alive or dead , gw do n't ever do this to me again .
allan walked up saluted and shook hands , george , seems you wound up running the damned show after all .
i said , allan you bastard , putting me in harms way like that three days before my wedding .
he chuckled , george you 've more than earned those stripes and a commendation besides .
from what jimmys told me you did a sterling job , stepped right into the breech .
by god george , i was right about you .
now get going theres a car waiting , stop by the base hospital and get checked out then take the rest of the day off , just have your report on my desk sometime tomorrow .
connie kept pumping me for details , i had never lied to her and never would yet neither could i bring myself to tell her just how close a run thing it had been .
the thetis had speedily captured the tanker samuel spelling and the riddle of the mystery ship was solved , we had , in fact , been attacked by the old uss hurst de 250 that had been sold to the mexican navy who used her for a training ship .
she had fallen into the hands of one of mexico 's old drug cartels , they together with rogue elements of the navy decided to go into the business of pirating , especially food and fuel as they were the current gold standard .
finding slim pickings in the gulf , they got wind of the spelling and decided to chase her down along the east coast .
therefore , in the end it had come down to another battle between the coast guard and the drug lords .
it raised concerns that there was the possibility of this happening again , the next time with a much more powerful warship and at present we had nothing at the ready to counter with .
the wedding went off without a hitch we exited the base chapel man and wife ducking under crossed sabers and a shower of confetti as rice was still too precious to be used in such a frivolous manner .
i looked at connie and grinned , well i hope this doesnt mean now were an old married couple im going to be cut back to once a week .
she laughed and said , oh i guess the cats out of the bag , howd you know thats why i married you just so i could cut you off and get a good nights sleep for a change .
at the reception , allan said , george take your lovely bride and cruise back to your little hideaway for a month or two and enjoy yourselves .
i envy you god how i wish i could take doris and come along , but you been around doris enough by now to know shes not much into roughing it .
george after this next assignment i 'll let you off the hook then you and connie can live happily ever after , i promise .
i 'll be around to see you off tomorrow morning .
this is your day i 've taken up enough of your valuable time as it is , now get in there and dance with your bride .
chapter seven outward bound the trip home was uneventful except this time we had to heel the boat in order to make in under green cove springs bridge .
we arrived back in the glen after being in relative civilization for almost three weeks .
the glen seemed rustic and quaint jim and cathy had settled in and were well on their way to converting the old park office into living quarters .
i told connie well it was great while it lasted we 'll never have the place all to ourselves again that 's for sure , better get used to living in society .
i was n't really upset , it was bound to happen someday , jim and cathy were good kids they had done a superb job of taking care of the place in our absence and besides as always we enjoyed their company .
with cathy , jim , and the other colonists taking over much of the day to day chores in the gardens , connie and i found ourselves with a lot less to do .
we enjoyed our newfound leisure time yet all the excitement we 'd been through created an itch within and though i was hesitant to admit to it we were anxiously looking forward to the summons from allan .
i was relaxing one evening musing over what was to come , i said , connie here we are living the best life has to offer , in the middle of a beautiful spring , food in our bellies , warm dry place to sleep , surrounded with as good of company as anyone would want , and great if not phenomenal sex .
any other animal would be completely satisfied and yet instead of being content were looking forward to the coming unknown .
thats what gets us in trouble were never satisfied we ca n't even stay in heaven when we 've found it .
now you tell me we do n't have some innate behavioral trait thats driving us .
we have absolutely no business ever wanting to leave here yet we will our inner nature will force us .
all , we can do , is to enjoy our brief time together in paradise , even though we 'll have regrets , we 'll still leave just like we did the last time i hope we never hear from bright .
connie chided , gw quit , every time we get close to leaving you start this crap , at times you can be such a pessimist .
think of it as leaving one paradise and entering another , you know you ca n't wait to hear from allan and besides we 'd find some way to have great sex even if it 's hanging from a circus trapeze .
i said , point taken , youre right , we havent tried that one yet .
maybe we could hang a trapeze in that big live oak over there , play tarzan and jane .
we visited astor often the little hamlet was coming back to life .
there was electricity in parts of town and the occasional vehicle could be heard traversing the bridge , even the black water was again open although it retained none of its former glory , it was good to see civilization slowly clawing its way back from the abysm .
we were on our way back from astor it was a beautiful afternoon , i had just finished checking a couple of crab traps when out of nowhere we were buzzed by an airplane .
connie and i about jumped out of our skins as the airplane flashed by at masthead level .
it made a turn and came back i could see the pilot waving and we waved back , he wiggled the wings and flew on in the direction of astor .
it was the first airplane we had seen since the collapse and we speculated on where it had come from .
i thought maybe it was from mayport but just as we were anchoring it again flew over it made a couple of low passes then dropped a bottle .
connie dived in , recovered it , and handed it to me .
i fished out the note it read john anders warsaw ky. landing pierson .
i waved that i understood and the plane dipped its wings and headed east .
i looked at connie and said feel like making a trip to pierson .
we headed back across the lake , got the truck and headed to the airstrip when we arrived there was a man installing a seat in a cessna .
i got out and walked around the front of the truck .
connie opened her door but sat with the 22 on her lap .
i asked , john anders i presume .
he turned and grinned , one and the same , at your service .
after introductions , i found out he had flown all the way from kentucky to come to astor .
he came back to the houseboat with us and that night told us of his ordeal .
before the collapse , he had been a dairy farmer , they had been fairly well prepared and doing well until his family had fallen victim to a band of marauders and had all been killed .
i learned john had lived no more than twenty miles from where i had grown up and although he was almost twenty years my junior knew many of the same families and people as i did .
he stayed with us for a couple of days then we ran him into astor and turned him over to dave and sam , i was sure john and his airplane would become a valuable asset .
sam and joyce had been doing well we got together on the weekends , during one of these visits i mentioned the upcoming expedition , joyce lit up oh what i 'd give for a place on that boat , that would be right down my alley .
i said , why do n't you get up a resume and i 'll forward it to allan .
she did and was immediately accepted both sam and joyce would be making the trip with us .
connie remarked having sam along was going to be like turning a bull loose in the china closet .
i said , do n't worry , sam will be right at home in the places were going , he 's a good man to have on an adventure and besides you never know when you 're going to need a good bull .
allan sent notes telling of one delay after another finally a month after we got back there was something concrete .
the short letter read , george , thanks for being patient , get packed , i am sending a fast launch for you , and party , will arrive on the 27th .
leave the damned sailboat at home this time , have a cabin waiting for you on pisces , see you on the 28.th pertaining to your request to bring the dog , i 'll give you an unofficial yes , ps george , try not to ask for anything else .
allan .
so the time had been set we had two weeks to get things in order , i was glad that we were taking skipper , leaving him had been a bone of contention as he had become like our kid and neither one of us could face the possibility of having to leave him behind .
still i was n't sure what the unofficial bit meant but we damn well werent going to leave him caged up in mayport .
the boat arrived on the 27th we had a small going away party at the black water , the next morning we loaded our bags on the launch and said our farewells .
the hundred mile trip to jacksonville took a little over four hours and we were there by two oclock .
allan had a car standing by and was waiting to meet us at the pisces .
we stepped out of the car the crew was lined up on the wharf standing at attention with the proud little ship behind .
i immediately noticed jim bishop out in front he now wore the rank of lieutenant commander , i was in civilian clothes and instead of saluting shook his hand , and said , jim your a glutton for punishment .
he said , you do n't know how much , i put in a request for this assignment .
i said , damn glad you did .
introductions were made all around the bags were picked up and hustled aboard .
allan said , george get your party settled in ive assigned you a driver , dinner at the house , cocktails at six , bring your friends .
we walked aboard i asked jim , what have we got here ?
jim said .
she 's a neat little research ship with a few additions we added in the last few months , thats what caused all the delays , did you notice anything odd about the ship , sir ?
i said , i havent had a chance to really get down to the brass tacks yet , but no it looks kosher to me , why , find something wrong ?
well no sir , it 's just that we took the liberty of adding a little armament after the hurst incident everyone felt maybe we should n't be traipsing around naked so to speak .
i asked , just how much armament ?
he said , one rapid fire 75mm otto and a couple of fifties just like the cutters .
i said , jesus , i thought this was going to be research , sounds more like search and destroy .
isnt it against international convention to be arming research vessels ?
well , yes sir but i do n't think theres anyone left who 's going to raise a stink over it .
i said , do n't look so worried , you wo n't get any argument out of me , i agree the more things we have on board that go boom , the better i feel , any hidden torpedo tubes or rocket launchers ?
no sir , but we do have a tiny cic .
connie , who had been walking behind , waited until we got to our cabin then said , gw what are we going to do , study the natives or kill off whats left of them ?
i said , think of it more like teddy roosevelt , speak softly and carry a big stick .
honey it does n't hurt to have some options just in case .
she said , ive got the pistol in my purse that should tell you something .
we no more than got settled and it was off to the bright 's .
i introduced joyce and sam , the cocktails flowed and sam spun his tales most of which i had heard before , allan was taken with the stories and by dinner , all were in a jovial mood .
after dinner , allan took me aside .
take tomorrow and go over the ship you have a couple of weeks to get the feel of it .
do n't forget your the co. jimmys always been a bride 's maid and he 's past due having his own command .
you should know he turned down the job of co on a cutter and volunteered to be your second , just thought you 'd like to know .
i gave you an old navy hand as third officer , herb o'royke , herbs served in about everything afloat he 's a jack of all trades aboard ship havent found anything he ca n't do and do well .
george he may seem gruff but do n't hesitate to rely on him , one helluva good man to have on hand in a pinch .
you got a couple of gal ensigns theyre more than capable of doing their jobs you 'll get to know them all tomorrow .
i was glad you sent me joyce 's resume learning she worked for noaa was like finding a missing piece to the puzzle , and i find sam quite the character he should keep things interesting , bet he 'll be a wiz at running deck equipment .
i said , allan about the armament ?
its all hidden had to add another foredeck house and rearrange some of the ship 's innards to accommodate it , took over three months , still i hope you never have to use it , but you know how fast things can turn hairy , call it a little added insurance .
got another surprise for you a small helicopter on floats to strap on the new helipad let you do a little air reconnaissance .
now come on george lets get back to the party so you can enjoy your first night back in civilization .
i said , allan we just left civilization where we had real meat for dinner .
next morning i got right down to work learning all i could about the little ship and its crew .
i had a meeting with my officers , jim i already knew having worked together on mohawk and knowing he had passed up the opportunity for his own command was icing on the cake .
i thought of what allan had told me about herb o'royke , i had gone over his records , they spanned a lifetime in the navy from the rank of seaman to lieutenant commander and along the way he had seen and done it all from serving in patrol boats to carriers .
even though he was , tall and lean herb wore the air of an old chief bosun 's mate , probably because it had been the job he felt most comfortable in .
i pegged herb for one of those individuals you did n't need to boss around just give him leeway and let them get on with the job , i had an old chief like him when i was a snot nosed ensign .
it had n't taken him long to jerk the knots out of my tail and he wound up becoming my mentor .
the two ensigns cindy kottmyre and linda sanchez were the bright young faces in the bunch both had served time on cutters before the collapse but had n't been to sea since .
i had no doubt that serving under jim and herb would round off any remaining rough edges .
i had never served with women and it was going to take a concerted effort on my part not to slip and call them honey or babe absentmindedly out of habit .
i was old and set in my ways and figured it was bound to happen so made a mental note to have a discussion with them on the subject .
the chief engineer dan wesselman was the only member of the crew who had been with the boat since commissioning .
in fact he had ridden out the collapse in her and was no doubt responsible for the fact that she had come through in such good condition looking at his hands i could tell he was an integral part of the ship .
i was always suspicious of engineering officers who did n't have dirt or grease under their fingernails .
during my first duty assignment in 68 as an engineering officer trainee in the destroyer agerholm dd 826 i learned , you ca n't show or tell someone how to do something with any authority unless you have done it yourself , and that means getting your hands dirty , dan 's passed the test .
i went over what i expected of my officers .
first that it was a small ship , everyone present was more than qualified for the position they were assigned .
being a small ship and working in close quarters meant it would be essential we all got along personally as well as professionally .
if anyone felt they had a problem come and see me for now was the time to make it known and ask for a transfer .
we should all share the common goal , to do our best and endeavor to carry out the mission assigned to us , above all , was the welfare and safety of ship and crew .
i said , i am the man in charge , this is n't a carrier so the normal chain of command rules are suspended .
if you have anything , you think i need to know do n't hesitate to come and see me directly that especially goes for ensigns .
the most dangerous officers , i 've ever served with , were individuals so intimidating and unapproachable that even though you knew there was a problem or they were making a serious mistake , stood by and kept silent .
the ultimate decisions are mine the more information or points of view i have to go on the better informed those decisions will be .
i want pisces to be a well run ship and a happy ship i never considered the two as being at odds .
now are there any questions ?
cindy asked , captain , do you know where were going , and for how long ?
i said , i have n't been informed yet of our exact itinerary , just that we will be cruising through the antilles to conduct a fishery survey and assess the impact of the collapse on the environment .
we are going to be the first ship to visit many of the islands since the disaster and no one knows what to expect .
therefore , we need to be prepared for any eventually .
i have no idea how long were going to be gone rumor is three or four months .
i should have something to share with you by friday and i 'll go over it then in detail with everyone .
if there are no more questions linda , cindy youre dismissed .
jim , herb , dan stick around for a minute please , i 'd like to get up to speed .
i 've read the reports , but i 'd like your personal assessments of our readiness if you have anything to pass along especially anything of concern i 'd like to hear it ?
dan i 'll start with you .
captain , all the machinery on board , is in working order , at the moment .
i have enough spares in stock to take care of the routine stuff , but it worries me that if were gone for months and something major were to break were screwed .
where we intend to cruise , i see no way to obtain parts .
i put in requisitions for things like rods , pistons , bearings , and valves but have gotten nowhere .
i know i ca n't get a lot of the stuff new but surely theres something out there to cannibalize , i 'd sleep better knowing i had more options .
ok dan , draw up a list of exactly what you need , i 'll see what i can do .
mind you , it may be necessary to take some help and gather things yourself , but if you 're not sleeping at night than neither will i. ok go make out your list .
thank you , sir , if you can get permission i 'll take care of the rest .
jim how about you , any concerns ?
sir at the moment i can say everything is pretty much in hand it would be nice if we could conduct sea trials .
herb youre last but not least , like to add anything ?
captain we havent had any live fire practice it would be nice to try out the gun , see if there are any kinks and get in few training sessions before we take off .
i said , i agree , i do n't want to get in a situation and have a screw up like the hurst if her oto melara had n't jammed neither jim or i would be here today .
if were going to haul the damn thing around then we , need to know it 's going to work .
i 'll see if i can swing permission to make a foray or two out for sea trials .
herb i 'm putting you in charge of all armament , requisition whatever weapons and ammunition you think we 'll need .
ok , now it is my turn , your both experienced officers and have a lot more time at sea than i do .
captain bright called you guys my left and right arms and thats the way i 'll be .
jim you will take responsibility for the day to day running of the ship , i 'll only step in when i deem it necessary .
i take comfort in the fact youre both more than qualified to run pisces .
i see no reason , why we ca n't work together and hopefully , have some fun along the way .
god knows we deserve some after what we 've all been through , ok jim and herb thank you , we 'll meet tomorrow morning at nine and see where we are .
i had barely scratched the surface , in fact i had n't even made a detailed tour of the ship yet , i would eventually get around to it but with jim and herb running the show i had bigger fish to fry and i made the visit to allans office .
allan said , george you get all settled in ?
i said , enough to start making waves , i need permission for my engineer dan to commandeer some spare parts , he has expressed concerns and they have become mine .
second i need to take the pisces out for sea trials , jim wants to put the ship through her paces , and herb needs to get in some gun crew training .
it would be nice to see if the damn things going to work before we get into a tight spot .
thirdly i like to know what the itinerary is going to be and how many are going along on the scientific part of this thing .
right now , connie and joyce have no idea of what to do except to poke around in the labs .
ok george , first things first , have your engineer make up a list and if he can find what he wants i 'll see he get it .
it 's your ship write up our own orders i 'll sign them and you can conduct your sea trails , the sooner , the better not pushing but this week would be fine .
i 'd like to get it out of the way before the scientific types arrive next week .
you and i will go over specifics of the itinerary thursday then work out any loose ends next week , any more questions ?
christ george , you 're starting to sound more like a commanding officer every day .
allan i 'm about to take pisces into the unknown , everything i hold dear and love is aboard her , i want to make damn sure that once we pull out of here we have every chance of making it back .
if thats the criteria by which you judge your captain then by god i am one .
i wasted no time dan was already scrounging parts , herb had requisitioned ammunition and was overseeing its storage .
next morning we made plans to go to sea .
i wanted it to be a hurry up affair as that would go far in showing up any weaknesses in training .
i had talked this over with herb and he agreed pushing the crew now would allow time to correct deficiencies before we sailed for real .
jim was going to operate the ship , but it was herb 's experienced eye i was counting on to pick up on needed changes and implement them .
i was beginning to feel like a conductor as already each of my senior officers had found a cozy niche to occupy all , i had to do , was keep everyone playing in tune .
with my senior officers , taken care of i felt , the time had come to have a chat with my ensigns .
cindy and linda entered and sat .
i said , let me start by saying both of you are officers in the united states coast guard and are fully qualified for the positions you hold that is the reason you are aboard this ship .
you both have excellent service records and i have no doubt will continue to serve aboard pisces with distinction .
it is me more than you i worry about .
i was brought up in a different age i guess they call it old school .
it 's not that i saw any disparage between men and women , rather back then it was considered a man 's duty to respect and protect what was referred to as the fairer sex .
this was a misnomer as some of the strongest and smartest people i have known are women .
still this was the culture i was brought up in and it 's hard to break old habits such as opening doors , saying yes ma'am no ma'am or thanks hon .
i realize this is no longer accepted practice , especially on a naval vessel .
sometimes its hard to teach old dogs new tricks and its most likely to happen at some point under stress or absent mindedness and i may make a slip .
i would like you to know beforehand that its not intentional on my part nor is it meant to be demeaning or patronizing .
i felt the need to bring this to your attention now before we sail .
cindy spoke up , captain collins i see no problem between us as long as you judge my merits only on my performance as an officer .
my father and especially my grandfather have the same problem .
they both respect me as a person and an officer , but theyre not about to stop calling me honey , i agree its habit , actually taken in context i do n't find it all that offensive .
i asked linda , have anything to add ?
she said , sir , permission to speak freely .
i said , certainly linda .
she said , i do n't know you that well sir , but i could n't help but observe the respect you have for mrs. collins , i do n't foresee that we 'll have any problems .
i said , thank you both as i said your records speak for themselves and i 'm pleased to have you both on board .
next item , i will not tolerate any sexual harassment or intimidation on this ship , military or non military .
if you encounter any problems , bring them to my attention immediately .
there is n't any room on this ship for boys will be boys stuff while i 'm in command .
let me add the same rules apply to you ladies as well .
it 's going to be a long cruise and we 'll all have to get along , once we sail there wo n't be any getting off .
have any questions or concerns ?
ok , thank you , youre dismissed .
there i had gotten that out of the way still it was going to be a long cruise both were buxom young women and there was a good chance nature would take its course somewhere during the next months and how was i going to deal with that ?
hell maybe they were lesbians for all i knew , problem solved , anyway when all was said and done they were still women .
connie and joyce would pick up on any scuttlebutt going around in the famine circles , and i should get have some inkling before anything got out of hand .
i told myself george you worry too much .
well , i hoped i had covered all the bases .
i had taken care of sam telling herb even though he 's a civilian use him anywhere he seems to fit in .
herb said , no problem he 's a likable guy i 'll find him plenty to do .
that evening with jim running the operation we put to sea , the crew scurried hauling lines and squaring away the deck under herbs watchful gaze .
soon we were past the sea buoy and i relaxed letting jim put the ship through her paces .
i left the bridge and joined connie for a late supper , though we were on a tiny ship we hadnt had much time together since we arrived , a fact which was n't lost on her .
she said , i feel like you have a new mistress how does a simple flesh and blood girl compete with a big steel ship .
i said , the most important thing about this steel ship is it has my flesh and blood girl aboard it and what i 'm doing is making damn certain it 's worthy to carry such a prized treasure .
she said , that 's a great comeback even better knowing it 's the truth .
i 'll show my appreciation when we get some sack time together , only we 're going to have to learn to be quieter the walls are paper thin .
i said , bulkheads dear there called bulkheads , but your right i just got a mental picture of everyone standing in the passageway listening to the captain bonking his wife .
honey i told you we should have stayed in the glen right now we could be hanging from that trapeze having wild sex and you moaning to the high heavens .
now were reduced to trying to not make the bedsprings squeak and biting our lips .
maybe i 'll ask dan if we can sneak in a corner of the engine room put some tape over the cameras , no one will hear over the sound of the diesels and i can bend you over a reduction gear housing .
just then , a call came from the bridge .
i said , round up joyce and come upstairs , herb 's about to put on some fireworks .
when i reached the bridge the cover over the gun had already been raised it looked utterly ridicules like something from dr. who i almost expected the barrel to begin gyrating wildly along with a tinny voice blaring exterminate , exterminate , exterminate .
it was supposed to resemble a doppler radar dome and was raised by a hydraulic cylinder fully extended the barrel had less than thirty degrees of elevation .
jim said , captain herbs picked out an old stranded freighter about 8000 meters and were going to pump five rounds into her first trip .
i said , it 's your ball game just show me the baby .
connie , joyce , and sam came on the bridge to watch the show .
herb did last minute checks and gave the order to fire .
the gun came alive and a round sped toward the target it was a little short , the next hit as did two more before the mechanism jammed .
i looked over at jim and said , bring back any memories .
herb rushed to see what had caused the problem .
i said , who makes these damn things fiat fix it again tony , the only thing more embarrassing , i can think of , is bringing a knife to a gun fight .
we held station herb returned and said , there was a glitch in the feeding tray a couple of whacks took care of it .
i said , i hope that was n't a live round you were beating on .
i saw a sly grin pass over herbs face .
ok lets try it again .
this time ten rounds hit the target before the gun again jammed .
herb said , captain , i 'll get that thing squared away tonight if i have to have dan build us a new one from scratch .
theres another problem the dome wo n't retract , the damned thing looks like a big toadstool sitting out there .
i said , ok guys at least we know it 'll hit something if we get it working , do what you can to come up with some fixes .
jim , herb shes all yours i 'm going to turn in .
that was one of the perks of being captain you could sometimes go to bed and leave a pile of crap for the underlings to sort out , besides we had more than our fair share of senior officers aboard .
i whispered to connie , lets go work on having quiet sex if such a thing is possible .
the next morning at breakfast jim and i surmised we had probably suffered the same problem the pirates had faced on the hurst , only they had n't had herb with a hammer .
jim said , imagine where we would be if their gun had n't jammed .
i said , imagine the shit wed been in if theyd used their smarts and superior speed to open up the range then ran circles around us lobbing in a bunch of three inch shells , not to mention what they could have done with their secondary bofors 40s .
still they looked to have a pretty good gun crew in number one , we got lucky you do n't usually get second chances and that night we got a bunch .
we need to make damn sure this gun does n't jam on us at an inopportune moment .
things went better that morning with the gun herb and dan had burnt the midnight oil and had done some modifications it now seemed to work flawlessly .
we spent the rest of the day working out the bugs getting in some hands on experience dan acted as a barometer for he was the only one who knew first hand the ship 's handling characteristics .
that evening we returned to mayport with the toadstool raised and canted like a parasol , it was going to need some major modifications to hold up under operational conditions .
herb and jim were already formulating plans to whack off the offending appendage and heave it overboard the first time it showed any further problems .
allan sent word that there was a meeting tomorrow at nine .
the next morning as dan went to collect parts and herb was overseeing the mushrooms rehabilitation i went to see allan and find out exactly where we were going .
allan had charts spread out on the table .
george heres the itinerary first stop key west the mohawk and thetis are back operating out of there after the spelling deal we just had to get things rolling again down south .
next skirt , the coast of cuba do n't think you 'll have any trouble thetis , has already been there they saw some people waving from shore and a few small boats , once we find out whats going on we 'll put a cutter and some people back in guantanamo .
we want you to make a pass around the north side of haiti and the dominican , i shutter to think what you 'll find , we do n't want you to land just observe .
if conditions are , right maybe , take the chopper and have a look around .
next on to puerto rico weve made radio contact , things were pretty grim there but some survived their living off the land .
again be careful do n't take the ship into any harbor and for god sakes do n't even think of tying up to a wharf if for any reason you have to go ashore take a small boat armed to the teeth and stay within range of your gun .
george we do n't know who were dealing with they might try to take over the ship to get away or use it like the hurst to go a pirating , anyway it is n't your job to shake hands just collect what information you can glean through the glasses or by helicopter .
if you see any boats , treat then as hostile until proven otherwise .
next cruise the virgins we do n't know what 's going on there either .
we have a supply ship that will rendezvous with you here at isla de culebra its there for you to replenish or in the event you run into trouble to escort you back .
it 's your decision how far down the chain you go from there .
i would like you to make a pass by grand cayman on your way back to key west thats the plan as it stands now .
couple of years ago it would have been an idyllic cruise today i have no idea what you 'll find .
most of those islands were over populated theyve had to fend for themselves , no fuel , and food or outside contact .
you can bet your sweet ass , whoever is left , has to be pretty damned tough and resourceful .
hell i do n't need to be telling you all this it 's like preaching to the choir .
i said , allan have you ever wondered why i decided to go along with all of this crap .
maybe you believed i was doing it out of civic mindedness or i harbored some latent lust for adventure .
i 'll tell you why .
i spent my life digging through mounds of dirt and rubble trying to piece together a picture of some ancient peoples lives and attempt to understand who they were , how they lived , and why their civilizations fell apart .
i would have loved to have had the opportunity to go back in time and see how it really was .
here i am an archeologist , slap dab in the middle of the greatest catastrophe in human history .
i want to attempt to describe it so those in my profession , who come along in the future , can have a clear picture and understanding of what this era was about , i do n't want them left with just scraps and speculation to puzzle over .
i know how they think and whats important to them this trip will allow me first hand knowledge on how things came unglued in different places .
i want to paint a picture so in five hundred or a thousand years there is no conjecture about what went on .
in a since this is a three fold mission , hopefully , everybodys going to get something out of it .
allan it 's going to be hard as hell if not impossible to learn what 's going on with these people just by watching them through a pair of binoculars .
this is supposed to be fact finding mission , for that you need boots on the ground .
maybe were not ready , maybe it would be better waiting until you can send in a properly equipped mission , scientists , diplomats along with the marines .
alan said , wed love to be able to do just that , but we do n't have the resources , i had to dig and scrape for months just to get pisces ready .
i know it 's not the way you want to conduct research , but we just do n't have any idea what you 'll be up against .
george i neednt remind you that you have the ultimate responsibility for everyones life on this venture and i know you wo n't do anything intentional to endanger them or connie .
use your judgment , if you feel safe going ashore from time to time go just do n't let your archeologist side get the better of your common sense .
all the detailed stuff is here in the case go over it and get back to me .
there 's a list of the scientific personnel arriving next week , i 'm sure connie and joyce will want to see that .
george i could send jim down there knowing he would get the job done and follow orders to a tee , dont kid yourself , i 'm sending you because you 've shown an ability to think on your feet , not because youre a model naval officer .
ok , get out of here i know you got things to take care of .
do n't forget the cookout sunday afternoon and for your information , there will be real beef steaks !
i hurried back so i could get jim and herb working on the details , it would keep them busy for the next couple of days .
there were two trucks at the boat unloading parts , dan and crew were covered in grease they had a cottage industry set up ship side cleaning , inspecting and inventorying parts .
i said , dan where in the hell are you going to put all this crap ?
he said grinning , do n't worry captain i 'll make it all go away , just do n't go peeking under any bunks .
i thumbed through the dispatch case and found the folder on the scientific personal and handed it to connie and joyce , they dug into it like kids at christmas , i 'd let them digest the contents and give me a report .
i called jim in and told him to go through and work up the necessary courses , timelines , and logistics but keep in mind nothing in there is set in stone and he could play around until he was happy .
i said , let herb in on the action .
take your time , and we 'll all sit down and hash out the fine points when youre ready .
allan was right i probably did make a piss poor naval officer , as for the thinking on my feet i thought more of it as thinking on my knees tenderly scraping and brushing away layers of dirt ever vigilant for that one small fragment of something that would change our understanding of history .
the foredeck was swarming with activity and herb was cussing like a sailor .
all manner of ideas on how to make the mushroom perform had been bandied about , i had reached the point this morning where i had lost all confidence in the contraption yet the guy whod designed it was bent on making his creation work at any cost .
i had taken herb aside and asked , think they got a chance ?
herb said , not a prayer , those fools want to mount a hydraulic cylinder from a dump truck on top of the gun the poor thing was n't meant to carry that kind of weight .
captain they might get their shit to work and leave happy , but the guns going to be as worthless as tits on a boar .
i said , herb someones always trying to reinvent the wheel , the germans knew how to do it in both world wars camouflaging ships with just a little canvas , pipe , and paint , turned their commerce raiders into all sorts of merchantmen .
go fetch dan and we 'll come up with our own ideas .
i 'm going down and fire this bunch and run them the hell off our boat they can take that frigging toadstool thing with them .
i looked up the designer of the offending piece of hardware and told him i appreciate your efforts , but i 'm going to have to put a stop to it .
the gun is the essential piece of equipment here not your cover .
my chief engineer will take charge of camouflaging the gun , i would like to have the dome and its associated hardware removed from my ship .
he gave me an incredulous look and said , i ca n't do that i 'm under orders to make it work weve got a lot of time and labor invested .
i said , fine , take it somewhere else and work on it to your hearts content just have it off my ship by this afternoon , if not i 'm going to have it cut it up and the pieces thrown over the side .
it 's your choice , either way the damn things leaving here today .
i got herb and dan together told them to make sure everything was removed and that no damage was done to the gun .
herb had evidently come to feel the gun was his own personal possession as he supervised the dismantling like a mother hen protecting her only chick .
i might not be the brightest bulb in the naval officers box , but i was smart enough to know when my officers had bonded with each other and their ship .
even with the ability to delegate responsibility i was still as busy as a one armed paperhanger , it seemed everyone had a problem only i could solve .
i did n't mind taking care of bottlenecks as they came with the job .
up until now things had been running along with just a hitch or two , nothing out of the ordinary .
then early the next morning i had a crisis dropped in my lap .
it landed like a rock thrown thru the window , seemingly out of nowhere .
what to serve for dinner and the decision was left to me .
at first i thought the note was a joke and i wrote bread and water three times a day until further notice and sent it back .
then i found out it was n't a joke and there was n't enough food on the ship to feed the crew and we were in port !
i sent for the cook and called him onto the carpet .
whats this crap i do n't have enough food on board to make a meal ?
look i know times are tough but my job is to run this ship yours is to feed its crew how you do it should be your business .
we have priority on available stores you 've had over a month or more in which to find them , now at the last minute you ca n't scrape enough together to feed the crew one meal .
why in the hell did n't you say something sooner we have less than a week before we sail on a four month cruise what in the hell were you going to do hang a fishing line over the fantail .
mister if this was the regular navy i 'd personally hang your balls on a nail , youre a civilian still i 'm tempted .
i do n't want to hear any excuses get the hell out of here and find something to feed these people even if you have to take a goddamned gun and go shoot it yourself .
i called my first crisis meeting .
i said , look it 's my responsibility and i dropped the ball big time , actually to be honest i didnt give it a thought .
i was never involved in provisioning there seemed to be a whole industry connected to it .
i just knew it happened , trucks pulled up and things came on board .
who has any experience ?
herb said , i was quartermaster of provisioning on a guided missile frigate .
i said , i hate to ask you to take on the job , but we ca n't sail until were provisioned , from now on your in charge of logistics .
i guess it was left up to the cook .
the guy can run a stove all right , but no one told him when he came on board he was also responsible for provisioning .
herb use anything or anybody you need to get the job done , by tuesday every locker and cooler needs to be filled to the brim .
did any of you ever see operation petty coat with tony curtis see if we have an ensign nick holden in the crew if not try to find us one every ship needs a holden or even a pulver to do the scrounging .
i do n't want to know how sneaky and underhanded you get just do n't kill anybody , please .
linda your the new junior logistics officer youll report to herb , i wo n't ask you to do anything untoward just make sure everything gets on board and is stowed properly , one of the perks , if you feel the urge is to kick the cook in the ass once in a while , i promise i wo n't look .
herb take sam along man 's good at ferreting out stuff .
you have written orders giving us priority to requisition , use them .
remember what we manage to get on board is what were going to be eating for the next four months .
jim you and cindy will have your hands full running pisces for the next few days , but i do n't want to be captain of a hungry ship , let me know where i can throw my weight around and keep me updated at least daily .
good luck .
somebody go and tell the cook to come back in .
i 'd had enough time to cool down and part of my irritation was my own failing of not having caught the problem in the first place .
the cook stood in front of me with a hangdog expression .
i said , i 'm not sorry for reaming you , i understand no one went over all the aspects of your job description .
still you could have told me or any one of the officers about your problems , we would have been glad to help and would n't be here at crisis level , as it was nobody had any inkling there was anything wrong .
i 'm the captain it 's my duty to know of any problems on my ship , preferably before they happen .
on the other hand to your credit you have done a good job of feeding the crew up to this point , they give you high marks and reports are you keep a spotless galley .
i have just made provisioning the number one priority , you will be working with ensign sanchez she is junior logistics officer .
can you come up with a list of what youll need to feed this crew for the next four months ?
yes sir .
good go over it with linda every effort will be made to get you what you need .
i 'm sure some things just ca n't be found anymore so try and be creative and above all make damn sure we eat well on this cruise and for gods sake do n't run out of coffee or you will find yourself swinging from a yardarm .
that 's all i ask , never do this again if you have a problem come and see me thats what i 'm here for .
i want you to give ensign sanchez a daily report on how things are going .
outside of fire at sea or uncontrolled flooding , food was right up there as a top priority for any crew , food affects efficiency , safety , and morale i was n't about to leave until i had satisfied myself we had more than adequate stores on board .
i hoped this was the only major glitch we would encounter , it should have been obvious yet it had blindsided all of us and shaken my confidence .
what else had i missed , was there something more ominous we knew nothing about ?
i made it a point not to have something like this repeated , there was going to be some burning of the midnight oil to make sure we had everything from flashlight batteries to toilet paper , before the first line was cast off .
herb went right to work he was one of those guys who rose to meet the challenge , turning him loose with hardly any restrictions brought out his resourcefulness .
herb was regular navy and wore the uniform , which was a definite asset .
through the base , was under coast guard control it was still manned primarily by navy personnel most held at least some animosity because the guard was in charge .
herb shopping list and orders in hand made the rounds , it wasnt his custom to take no for an answer and he marched right in waving the orders then personally checked the store rooms and warehouses directing sam and crew to load up whatever items were on the list .
trucks began pulling up and unloading boxes , crates , and bags of food , by friday herb , was well on his way to checking off most of the items on the list .
he ended his daily report and gave me the same sly grin i had seen on the bridge .
we have some more shopping to do later tonight , sam found a whole i cut in , herb i do n't need to know any of the gory details at least leave me a shred of plausibility so i can look genuinely shocked when the shore patrol shows up .
all i can say , you did in a day and a half what should have taken weeks .
we met twice a day to go over and ferret out any details we had overlooked , herb , linda and the cook tailored a provisioning list for the boat so from now on we would be able to keep track and have some idea of what we needed , refining the list as we went .
dan had been the only one who seemed to have a firm grip on his department his spares were all squared away and he said he was sleeping like a baby .
the gun camouflaging was nearing completion , dan had taken on the job welding up lightweight weight frames covered with sunbrella fabric they had been set up around the gun on hinges so at a moments notice they could be swung down out of the away giving the weapon unimpeded elevation and over a 180 degrees of travel .
the frames were so light they could be taken apart and easily stored which was my intention and only to use them if we felt the need .
the original fiberglass cover was placed on the gun and it was looking like new .
i asked herb , what in the hell were they trying to accomplish in the first place , ca n't see a hell of a lot of difference in the stock cover and the mushroom except size , they went through all that bullshit for zero gain .
i noticed on one of my trips around base that the mushroom lay abandoned next to a workshop .
connie and i went to allans for the cookout sunday , joyce tagged along as sam was still helping herb round up supplies .
it was a small affair just the brights , and us , still it made a nice change to get away from the boat and relax if just for the afternoon .
the girls were busy going over base gossip while allan and i sat waiting for the grill to heat .
he asked , how are things going ?
must be keeping you busy as you havent been around bugging me lately .
say the guy that fabricated that mount concealment came barging in to see me , did n't go away a happy camper said you threw him off the ship , wanted me to order you to let him continue .
i told him i could n't help him the decision was yours to make , what was the deal on that anyway ?
i said , he had a real cluster going and was about to place almost a thousand pounds of hardware on the mount , can you imagine , besides the damn thing looked utterly ridiculous .
hell allan it did n't look that much different from the original coverthats why i ran the bastard off .
we built a sunbrella fence around it , looks like part of the boat folds out of the way in seconds .
theres only been one serious snafu so far it seems the old cook was taken sick and had to be replaced , no one thought to brief the replacement or tell him that he was in charge of provisioning .
he just went ahead and cooked everything on board then sent a note asking me to find him something to prepare for supper .
i gave the guy a good reaming , but it was my fault none of my officers or i had given a thought to check the galley , classic case of groupthink .
got it straightened out the guys have been foraging high and low and now we almost have a full larder .
you were right herbs a go getter saved the day .
allan i want to thank you i have a fine bunch of officers their all working well together and each has taken to the ship and their job .
allan said , say your guys did n't come across a stray refrigerated truckload of meat by any chance did they ?
i said , are you kidding we havent had meat in weeks that 's why we 're here today with bells on .
allan said , hate to break the news , but my steaks were on that truck best i can do right now is a hamburger .
we ca n't figure it out , found the truck it never left base , but the contents were gone .
if your guys do come across any stray meat let me know theres enough beef , pork and poultry missing to feed a small ships company for months .
i said , if anything comes up i 'll certainly let you know right away .
he said , lets put these damn hamburgers on , and just pretend it 's a big juicy porterhouse .
i really do n't care about the rest , but i was looking forward to tucking into my first real steak in over a year , i 'll skin the bastards that got them when i catch them .
i sat munching on the hamburger wondering if just maybe i did have a holden in my crew after all .
i was going to make some inquiries and advise my guys to keep a lookout for any stolen meat , especially my commanding officers steaks .
christ a truckload the whole base had only been receiving two loads a month .
next morning i sent for herb .
captain bright informed me there was a hijacking involving a truckload of meat .
i would appreciate you keeping an eye out , seems captain brights particularly interested in a dozen or so porterhouse steaks that had been sent to him personally .
hes threatening to turn the base upside down until he finds them , i think if he were to come across his steaks in good condition he would be inclined to drop the matter , just wanted you to know so keep an eye out .
it 's a shame i guess we 'll just have to do without meat .
if by chance , we do have any onboard order the cook to save it until we 're at sea .
herb grinned , if i should happen to come across anything i 'll make every effort to recover the captains steaks .
thanks , herb , everything going ok ?
yes sir cooks in seventh heaven .
connie and joyce had been pouring over details of the scientific part of the mission and had been busy rounding up all the stuff they were going to need .
i had given them free reign as this was something i knew nothing about just that there were only going to be six people coming aboard , which was good as every nook and cranny was stuffed with stores .
that afternoon our helicopter arrived it was more toy than machine and i was n't sure if i could up get enough nerve to ride in the thing .
it landed on the water then was craned aboard , everyone had been standing by with extinguishers along with a rescue launch beside the ship but it had gone well the little chopper now sat on the pad with the pilot mechanic strapping it down , i had detailed dan to make sure he received whatever he needed .
everything had fallen in place we had gone over and over every conceivable detail , we could think of and had all reached consensus .
pisces was ready to go to sea , it was down to waiting for our scientific party to arrive .
wednesday afternoon the van carrying them pulled up , they spilled out stretching and looking at the ship .
none appeared to be over forty , three men and three women .
joyce immediately recognized one of her old colleagues and there was a tearful dockside reunion .
i welcomed them aboard and they were shown to their quarters i would meet with them later with a proper welcome dinner and go over any last minute concerns or needs they might have .
allan had also been present at the arrival he had shaken hands then given the ship the once over before taking me aside .
damnedest thing happened those missing steaks showed up in a cooler on my back porch the other morning none the worse for wear , no note or anything complete mystery , guess i 'll never know what happened to the rest .
shore patrol is still investigating , they now think maybe the stuff was hustled out by boat and traded to one of the ship crews over at blunt island .
shame we did n't have those steaks sunday , still i 'll be thinking of you when i get around to cooking them .
george your ship looks ready in all respects , nice job on hiding the gun , the little chopper on the back deck kinda sets everything off .
we 're going to begin flight operations again next month when the shipment of jet fuel arrives .
george i was worried sick things were just going to keep declining but when i look around it gives me new hope that we are indeed digging our way out of this mess .
theres another gem i 'll pass along , i was informed the gps system will probably be reactivated in a couple of weeks so make sure you have working equipment on board , when it happens i 'd still keep the sextants dusted off and at the ready just in case .
i said , i 'll be glad of that , jim and herb have been doing most of it i was never great at working sights or plots and the business of not having a current almanac or truly accurate time really sucks .
i cornered herb first chance i got .
captain bright informed me he got his steaks back seems they turned up on his back porch , shore patrol thinks the rest was taken out by boat and traded on the black market .
i think it would be nice if they did n't come across anything which would impede their investigation and they continued to stay focused in the direction they 're going , do n't you ?
on an unrelated subject , you might remind the crew of the old proverb that loose lips sink ships .
with everything going on i , was beginning to think instead of the coast guard , i had joined mchales navy .
i 'd better not forget i was the one who had instigated this charade in the first place .
who was it that opened his trap and said find me a holden , so it was only fair i should act out my part along with the rest , even bright ?
hell it was like going back in time to the old agerholm and all the shenanigans we youngsters used to pull .
that evening the scientific contingency was welcomed with a dinner , there was some concern expressed on how the new helipad was going to affect the operation of the fishing gear .
i turned it over to jim he did n't know any more about it than i did and deferred everything to joe whirly who was in charge of running the deck equipment .
joe jumped up like an mc of a reality show grinning and went into a spiel explaining though we had lost the full use of one of the cranes the ship was still capable of deploying most of its assets and though it might take a little longer to accomplish some tasks .
he guaranteed satisfactory results and everybody would be happy .
jim whispered to me , he 's doing a lot of guaranteeing , better have his fingers crossed , we havent even had one piece of trawling gear wet and nobody knows with that helicopter sitting back there if we 'll even be able to dump it .
captain its going to be an interesting trip to key west .
i said , you saying it might come down to me having to make a decision on whether to jettison the chopper or the trawl that could be a tricky one .
to us not involved in fisheries science , satisfactory results would be measured by catching something tasty for dinner .
no matter what the scientists thought of pisces , to us she was a state of the art fishing machine , still you had to catch them before you studied them or ate them for that matter .
joe whirly was the only one in the group with any experience running the fishing gear he had worked on another noaa boat before the collapse , when it was decided to add the helipad joe had been put in charge along with the same guy that had developed the failed mushroom .
dan had been left out of the loop and was n't allowed a horse in the race , besides he had his hands full going through the ships systems making sure they were up and running .
i had assumed when i came on board everyone knew what they were doing that is until the mushroom debacle , now all of a sudden i was having second thoughts about the helipad as well .
as was pointed out adding it had hampered free movement of one crane , i did n't know anything about trawling gear but suspected before it was over i was going to be forced into becoming an expert .
well , we would n't know for sure until we deployed whether we could successfully retrieve it .
i did n't relish the thought of dragging the crap all the way to key west .
after his ingratiating performance tonight joe whirly had made it to the top of my watch list , he just might pull it off and come out a hero still i planned to have a nail waiting for his nuts if he could n't deliver on his promises .
during our usual pillow talk , i confided my concerns to connie , she and her colleagues were looking forward to accomplishing their part of the mission , i told her , it could wind up being nothing yet i might be forced to dump the fishing gear if we cant manage it .
then again , i may just leave the helicopter in key west and cut off the helipad .
still it would be damn nice to keep the chopper even if it is a toy .
i said , honey , just keep me updated on what your guys are thinking i do n't want to get into a position where are missions conflict and cause us disagreement .
early the next morning i went straight over to see allan , doris came to the door as cherry as usual and led in to allan who was sitting at the kitchen table he said with some surprise , youre an early bird today looking for worms are we ?
have a cup of coffee instead .
i sat down and said , i may have a potential problem with the fishing gear it seems no one knows for sure whether it will work .
both my xo and chief engineer have expressed doubts about the helicopter pad .
i have eight scientists on board eagerly waiting to drop their stuff in the water one of them is my wife .
i do n't want to leave knowing i might have to ditch either the gear of the chopper so while i have the chance i 'm going to saddle you with the decision , another sea trial to test the gear or not ?
he said , how come everyones having all these doubts at the last minute ?
i said , there 's only one rating on board who 's worked for noaa and knows anything about operating the trawl .
he teamed up with the guys who dreamed up the funky gun cover and together they designed and built the pad .
i strongly suspect judging by the gun housing none of them knew what the hell they were doing .
my guys assumed they did and let them have their way .
its not like the old days when they would have had people crawling all over each other looking up their asses .
bright said , so now youre over here at seven in the morning dumping it in my lap .
you did the right thing , i love solving problems at sunrise , and you 'll be delighted to learn i 've already worked out a solution .
let 's have another cup then i 'll tell you to take care of it yourself , do whatever you think is best , and we can get on with the day .
see how easy that was .
got any more problems i can help you with ?
thats what i liked about allan bright always ready with a brilliant answer and to ease the burden from the shoulders of his subordinates .
well ok , i could play the game and pass the buck too .
i walked on board called jim over and said , jim round up everyone and make ready to get underway asap .
he looked puzzled when sir ?
i said , i gave the order 10 seconds ago come on , were wasting time and have joe whirly come see me pronto .
we 're going to make a run out and see if he can make all those promises he was slinging around last night come true .
it took two hours to get everyone on board and cast off .
i told joe we were going to put the fishing gear through its paces so he better be able to pull the promised rabbits out of the hat .
i asked connie to get her crew rounded up and into the conference room .
when they were assembled , i said , ladies , gentlemen once again welcome aboard pisces .
i 'll make it short and sweet we really have no idea if the fishing gear is going to work or not owing to the installation of the helipad .
my officers and crew are coast guard or navy and can run the ship , but none of us have experience fishing so have been relying solely on joe whirlys experience .
we 'll start deploying gear in about an hour .
if any of you have previous experience now 's the time to step up to the plate .
thank you and lets hope for the best .
one young man stood up .
captain , i 'm ned borowitz , i 've been on a couple of these noaa missions aboard the henry bigelow a sister ship to pisces and id be happy to lend a hand .
i said , good we can use you see dan , our engineer .
i had another meeting on the bridge and told everyone to be on their toes and again told joe .
you 've had two months to plan how your stuffs going to work now make it happen you run the equipment but understand dan 's in charge of the deck he 's going to keep his eyes open and watch for anything dangerous .
good luck , joe give it your best shot .
it turned into an anti climax as we spent the afternoon setting and hauling gear there were some glitches , but nothing like i had been led to believe .
it was a nice feeling to have something go right for a change .
maybe i had over reacted but now we knew for sure our stuff worked and for the moment there would be peace and harmony in the valley though experience had taught me even that would all too quickly pass .
when the gear had been brought aboard i called a meeting .
i said , we were scheduled to leave in the morning , by all accounts were as ready as well ever be and unless someone has a valid reason for returning to mayport .
i plan on proceeding to key west .
jim , herb , dan can you think of anything ?
ok , jim run it through on the pa and inform everyone if nothing legit comes back inform mayport were heading south and that we 'll see them in four months .
chapter eight voyage into the unknown jim made the announcement over the pa and pisces pointed her bow south plugging along at eleven knots .
next stop would be key west in two days giving us time to shake out some of the wrinkles in our operations .
i told jim , pisces is all yours take good care of my iron mistress i need to spend a little time with my flesh and blood gal for a day or two .
jim said , that 's true both ships and women demand constant attention , go ahead captain i 'll watch over this one for you .
for the first time since we arrived in mayport i felt relaxed , we were finally at sea and it was good to feel the ship under my feet .
some guys i served with never adjusted to the sounds or motion of a ship but i had always managed to become attuned to the rhythm of the vessels in which i served , learning to judge the state of things just by the sounds and vibration .
we had dinner with joyce , sam , and a couple of the scientific party .
they were looking forward to getting back to doing their jobs as it gave them some form of normalcy even though like the rest of us were working only for food .
i reminded them that when they started bringing in fish the crew required some good specimens for a taste test .
i popped in , checked on the bridge then connie and i walked out , and stood leaning on the bridge rail .
i said , who would have thought a year ago , we would be standing here .
i never told you , but before this started i was on my way to taking little surreal and cruising the caribbean .
my only ambition then was to chase women , lay around drunk , and fade into oblivion .
now i hardly drink , youre the only women i ever want to chase , and i 'm captain of a two hundred foot research ship .
i guess i 'll just have to settle for drinking coffee , loving you and seeing the caribbean or whats left of it from this bridge wing .
she said , gw , you sound disappointed , are you ?
i said , heavens no honey just the opposite , with you standing here beside me i 'm the happiest guy on planet earth .
hows your side of things shaping up ?
she said , i think everythings ok , so far they seem to be a pretty mellow group , dr. clyde brothers , the tall guy you were talking to that worked with joyce years ago , he 's in charge seems real nice .
i do n't know how to do anything yet , but it looks like it 'll be interesting , their going to start showing us what we 'll be doing tomorrow .
oh , ned wanted me to ask you when the freezer in the lab would be available seems its chock full of meat at the moment .
i said , tell him to see herb or linda their in charge of stores .
meat you say , i did n't think we had any on board must have been a last minute delivery .
the cruise to key west was uneventful , jim and herb put the ship and crew through their paces while joe whirly worked with the scientists deploying various gear .
we had been in sight of the coast most of the way down , it was strange traveling along the east coast of florida and at night , seeing nothing but total blackness .
occasionally a small fire or twinkling light gave proof that there were still a few people tenaciously clinging to life .
we pulled into key west thetis , and mohawk were both in port and we tied up behind them , abe gully was waiting to greet us .
welcome to key west george hows pisces been performing for you ?
i noticed abe now wore captains rank .
hello abe , everythings going pretty well so far , knock on woodhow about you , feeling ok ?
yeah , were all healed up , the mohawk and i both got a few scars .
and he pointed to his forehead .
i said , brought a bunch of stuff down for you , shits piled up all over the place , ca n't hardly walk through the ship .
abe said , i 'll take care of it .
when you get settled in i 'll bring you up to speed on what we 've found out so far .
after dinner , i got together with abe and chad seltman , the captain of thetis .
abe said , a little less than a month ago chad here made a pass along the coast of cuba , saw a few small boats and some people on shore , but did n't make any contact .
last week i took mohawk in close and talked to some fishermen , they got hit hard , over half their population .
like everyone else , the rest seem to have come through pretty well all things considered .
hell , the cubans , were so used to doing without for so long this was just another bump in the road for most of them .
the castro crowds history they got some new kind of quasi socialist , capitalist system in place and there even using currency again can you believe it , hell we do n't have a monetary system of our own yet .
anyway from what i could learn it sounds like they pretty well got their shit together .
when youre ready , i thought we could take pisces and one of the cutters slide into havana and say hello , understand youre going to cruise the coast anyway .
what a turnaround , first diplomatic mission for the us will be cuba !
well , anyway we need to see if maybe we can get some trade going .
is that going to sit ok with you george ?
i said , allan gave me orders not to go into any harbor or make contact and only observe from a safe distance , but he also said i could make a landing if i felt it was safe .
i agree with you were going to have to make contact if were ever going to get things up and running , even if it means conducting trade as we did two or three hundred years ago .
this time on a more equable footing and with no slavery involved .
do you think we 'll be ok going into havana ?
abe said , just to be on the safe side i 'll have chad with thetis standing by just off shore .
for the next two days , we went over the fine points of the plan it was decided pisces would go in under the cover of one of the cutters and ask to meet with a delegation .
the meeting would be held aboard pisces that way we could avoid putting people ashore until we were sure the situation was safe .
i radioed allan with our intentions he oked it but cautioned we werent to conduct any negotiations as the officially the embargo was still in effect .
i said , christ i ca n't believe after all this we 're still stuck with past policies , as far as i 'm concerned the slate has been wiped clean , if these people want to be friendly i 'm willing to talk with them until i 'm blue in the face .
abe echoed my sentiments .
the little flotilla left , with pisces flanked by the two cutters i noticed mohawk had a small destroyer broken in two painted on her bridge .
we proceeded , and entered the historic port of havana and dropped anchor .
the mohawk stayed far enough back that she could act as support .
jim and herb kept the crew at the ready in case we had to get under way at a moment 's notice .
small boats began to gather around , they were smiling and waving , among them was a friendly young man wearing a uniform .
i had linda ask him who was in charge and to tell them we would like to arrange a meeting here on the ship .
in about an hour , a boat rowed out with what looked to be a delegation of three civilians along with two armed men in uniform .
i invited them on board we shook hands all around and had them conducted to the conference room .
linda stood by to act as translator , but all three men spoke passable english , they said they were members of the elected general council , that cuba had gone through the same turmoil which had affected every country but after the initial die off of the old , sick and young , cubans came together and began to work and share .
they had elected a council to keep things on track and though it had been a struggle had managed to keep their agriculture going and their population was now able to feed itself .
he said it was hardship having almost no electricity or fuel and they were living practically in the stone age but were getting by .
he thought it was due to the climate and the fact they had n't slaughtered all their animals , he believed if cuba could begin to trade and obtain fuel supplies the country would recover .
i told him we had been sent on a fact finding mission and the united states was in the same shape as cuba but we were in the process getting our energy production up and going .
we had nowhere near the domestic demands we had before the collapse and it would only be a matter of months until we would be in a position to begin trade and the united states was looking forward to establishing warm relationships with her neighbors .
i spent hours with the head of the council senor jos mendez we talked about how we had survived i went into the details of the symposium and how i had come to view humankind .
he said , captain collins i havent told you the whole story of our survival , it will come out eventually , and it is a cross i will have to bear for the rest of my life .
cuba was like the rest of the world our people were starving , we knew famine was going to take almost half the population but which half ?
we could just let nature take its course or we could attempt to shape events and save the best among us , those who would most benefit cuba when the crisis had passed .
we made a conscious decision to play god and to select who would live and those who would die .
a panel was put in place i was one of its members , we were elected so it was n't like we appointed ourselves .
i along with the rest had to make the decision to let millions die based on our criteria .
i still see their faces at night and it haunts me .
we tried to be fair even members of my own family were left to die .
i do n't know if it was right or wrong what we did , the only justification is that cuba is still here today , and i can only believe the people left are the best and brightest .
captain , i have to live with myself knowing i may have participated in genocide .
even after what he had told me i found him intelligent , sincere , and humble unlike so many of the self important bellicose leaders of the past .
there was a part of me that found what they had done repugnant , yet i could n't bring myself to view senor mendez as a mass murderer .
i had met murderers and i myself had murdered , we had all been the subjects of natures law and the survival of the fittest .
man 's law , nature 's law they had been in conflict and in the end it was natures that prevailed .
it could be argued they had only aided nature by culling the weak from the strong , the good from the bad thus giving the strong and good an advantage .
anyway it wasnt for me to condone or condemn , my job was to collect information on how various societies had dealt with the collapse , and each would give me a different perspective .
i told him senor mendez we should look only to the future and make sure we didnt repeat our mistakes for do so would truly constitute an unpardonable sin .
i told him we were going to hispaniola next .
he warned to be careful as a flood of refugees had inundated cuba and it had started a bitter war .
i came away from the meeting feeling that even though this new government had blood on its hands they were repentant and would be frank , honest , and easy to work with , provided we did n't screw it up by sending some idiot down to open negations .
i wrote out a long report to allan expressing my views and gave it to chad .
we cruised cuban waters for a couple of days in consort with mohawk , enjoying the scenery and letting the scientists do their thing then we made our way to the naval base at guantanamo bay to see how it had fared .
there were no surprises it was just like everywhere else wed visited , deserted and overgrown , we stayed overnight , said goodbye to the mohawk and headed for haiti .
herb had been drilling the gun crews , we like the cutters had fifty caliber machine guns on both sides of the ship they could be mounted and manned in just minutes .
jim had suggested that all officers be issued side arms .
i agreed and also gave many of the crew access to assault rifles .
with so many of the crew armed to the teeth , i felt it was time to lay out some rules of engagement .
we would show no belligerence toward anyone we encountered which meant keeping arms out of sight as much as possible yet having them handy .
every attempt would be made to keep the ship from getting into any kind of situation whereby we could be overrun that meant not venturing into waters where our movements might be constrained .
if we anchored close to shore , the watch would be doubled and armed .
all shore parties were to contain at least two armed members and could consist of no more than six persons at any time and these parties would have to remain in sight of the ship .
these rules could only amended by jim , herb , or myself .
of course , in the event , anyone was attacked they were allowed to respond in kind .
i warned herb , no one gets trigger happy on my ship , and this is n't a hunting expedition .
make sure you go over what constitutes individual rules of engagement and the use of deadly force with everyone even the scientific party so there is no misunderstanding .
at lunch the next day carol abernathy one of the members of the scientific team asked , captain why was i subjected to that rules of whatever nonsense , you do n't think we will encounter any trouble , the people , we met in cuba , were so friendly .
i answered , i am hoping not , but the cubans have a pretty decent government setup , i 'm not sure other places we visit will be so well organized .
it 's better to keep our guard up until we know all the facts .
she said , i was looking forward to being able to go ashore and do some sampling , does this mean i 'm not going to be able to perform my job .
i said , ill do everything i can to accommodate you as long as it does n't compromise the safety of this ship , please see lieutenant commander .
bishop , and give him your requests .
he will try to work them in .
she answered , captain may i remind you this is a research ship and that its primary mission is the study of marine life , i do n't think the term working in is appropriate , after all it 's been over three years since any of these studies have been done .
i want to do the research i came here for , and i fully expect to have the ships cooperation in order to carry it out .
i said , miss abernathy i can only empathize that my first responsibility is to protect the ship and all those aboard after those concerns are addressed i will be happy to oblige you .
i myself would like to do some exploring but am laboring under the same constraints as everyone else .
she said , curtly , captain that would be ms. abernathy if you please .
i thought oh well even eden had its serpent thank god the rest of the bunch seemed convivial enough .
i 'd let herb and jim deal with ms. abernathy from now on .
that evening i queried connie further about ms. abernathy .
connie said , i 'm not sure , but both joyce and i get the feeling that she might be a little on the gay side , she has this butchness about her , i ca n't say for a fact i do n't know the women that well , but we 've noticed jill and betty seem to shy away from her too .
i 'm dying to find out what they think , but i do n't know them well enough to get into that kind of conversation , i just know shes a pain to work around .
i asked , she been hitting on you .
no we did n't give her the chance joyce and i have made our preferences pretty clear , i think thats why shes been so snippy .
i said , great that 's all i need is a sapphic aboard .
connie piped up , two .
i said , two who else ?
one of your girls .
my girls , i only got two , you , and the ship .
she said , your ensign , cindy .
i said , cindy kottmyre , nooo .
oh yes , ask her she makes no bones about it , this isnt the old days of do n't ask do n't tell .
i said , i 'll be damned , had no idea .
she said , couple of days before we left she was with another girl and introduced her to joyce and i as her partner .
god honey i hope it is n't catching , i better keep you well serviced just in case and think all this time i 've been worried about the guys .
i chuckled , you know after i had my little talk with them , linda and cindy i was worried about what was going to happen between the boys and girls being cooped up together on the ship for three or four months and i kinda thought , well hoped , maybe they were lesbians , problem solved .
i went on , at least i was half right i really do n't care whose diddling who so long as everyone does their job .
keep me posted if things look like they might get out of hand , ok .
regardless of her sexual orientation i think shes a bitch .
she asked , who ?
i said , ms. abernathy , especially if shes mistreating my sweetie .
she said , do n't worry your sweetie can take care of herself .
we had made the hop from cuba to haiti it was like entering a different world cuba had been green and lush but as i scanned the hills of haiti i was met with brown and barren , i found it hard to believe this at one time , had been considered the most beautiful and prosperous spot in the western hemisphere .
i wanted to make a couple of flights with the little toy chopper and get a birds eye view but it would require calm water to launch and recover as it had to be swung over the side by the crane and placed in the water .
i still could n't understand why allan had n't sent one of the cutters to do this , especially since mohawk had piddled around with us for three days .
shit in the time they wasted they could have run over here launched the little thing from the flight deck took a bunch of pictures and hightailed it back .
i talked it over with jim and herb and decided to go into the bay at port au prince just far enough to find some calm water for the launching .
we entered at general quarters the machine guns manned officers wearing side arms and our little fire control station at the ready .
i scanned with the glasses but could find no sign of human activity just desolation and overgrown ruins .
we went to work sam was now the crane operator and he gently swung the little machine over the side , gerald spencer the pilot and i were in the inflatable waiting and when it was lowered into the water we motored over gerald unfastened the cable and then the strap which held the blades fore and aft .
we climbed in fastened our belts the inflatable then towed us a safe distance from the side of the ship .
gerald made last minute checks then started the chopper neither one of us could be considered big men but our shoulders were crammed so uncomfortably together that i was glad this flight would only last an hour .
i had a high resolution digital camera in my lap and took a picture of the ship as we lifted off .
i told gerald to keep a lookout in case anyone took a pot shot at us , i had n't seen a damn thing but you never knew .
we made our way to the docks then flew over the city , below was what could only be described as a wasteland covered in rubble and junk , we cruised over the city which once teemed with millions .
below us not a living thing could be discerned only new scrubby growth seemed in abundance taking hold wherever the opportunity presented itself .
we widened the search but after an hour had found no signs of current human activity , not even a wandering dog .
gerald said , reckon the whole islands this way , everybody bought it ?
i said , does n't look good we 'll fly over cap haitian tomorrow and have another look , maybe things will be better in the outlying areas .
if there is anyone left , i do n't think they would want to live down there in all that crap .
we returned to the ship and stowed the chopper , later i downloaded the pictures so everyone on board could see the devastation .
it was n't so much the devastation as almost every city in the world lay in ruins , what we always found alarming was the total absence of life .
i told jim and herb that evening .
tomorrow we 'll begin concentrating on the coast as it 's a foregone conclusion no ones living in cities anymore , if theres anyone left their going to be in out of the way places where they have a natural supply of fresh water and access to the sea , probably with a spot to raise a garden .
from what we saw today if anyones living , their doing so at a subsistence level , i doubt we can find over a few thousand people on the whole island of hispaniola .
let 's swing around to labadee tomorrow it 's an old royal caribbean cruise lines stop , used to be beautiful .
dan has some major maintenance to do on one of the mains if it turns out to be safe maybe , we can give the crew some r r .
gerald can give me a tour over cap haitian then we 'll head on down the line to the puerto rico .
herb you might ask doc .
brothers if his team has any objections , do n't see why they would , it 's a certainty nobody is going to be depleting fish stocks around here for a while .
we made our way around and stayed off shore until morning then crept into labadee with everyone on edge , but there was no movement on shore .
we anchored by the royal caribbean cruise lines complex it lay in decay an eyesore to the otherwise beautiful white beaches and sparkling water which beckoned to the crew .
jim had both the launch and inflatable put in the water herb and four armed members of the crew went ashore to investigate , they returned and said it was clear so jim let those not on watch go ashore to relax on the beach and swim .
the little helicopter was launched , gerald and i began our trip to see cap haitian , we flew over the hills and made a couple of passes over the city there were four or five fishing boats the first we had seen anywhere in haiti but no sign of life .
we were about to turn back when we saw a wisp of smoke , gerald swung around , and we investigated .
the smoke was coming from a cooking fire we could see a group of a half dozen gathered around it , they saw the helicopter and began to wave .
we continued to circle and counted about a dozen more people heading in the direction of the fire .
i said to gerald , well someone made it , wish i knew their story , but i 'm not about to land and find out , besides i do n't speak french , lets head on back .
that afternoon the lookout reported a small boat was approaching the ship and reported there were only two people on board .
i looked through the glasses and saw a man and woman sailing in our direction .
in a half hour , they came within hailing distance and began waving and smiling and speaking french , over the pa i asked if we had any french speakers aboard , ms. abernathy responded and said she spoke french fluently .
i asked if she would act as translator , connie also knew a little french and came along to listen in .
the couple came alongside pisces carol spoke with them at length then told us they were among only a handful that had made it .
they had lost their children and barely managed to survive the hunger and disease that had swept away almost all of the others .
they said there was only a dozen or so left they knew of .
they asked carol if we had anything to spare such as fishhooks .
they seemed to be a friendly couple and posed no threat , i asked herb if we could round up some fishing tackle to give them .
i was impressed as they had asked only for tools to gather food rather than food itself .
they took the tackle thanked us saying they would bring us some fish tomorrow .
dan came to see me covered in grease and asked if we could layover another day as the repairs were more extensive than he had initially thought , but felt if he could take care of them now it would head off a major problem down the road .
i had reservations as i did n't like to stay in one place too long , but gave permission as i knew dan wouldnt have made a request unless he felt it necessary .
i told jim to keep the lookouts on their toes that even though i had n't seen any real threats i 'd rather be safe than sorry .
that evening connie said , well you told me to let you know if i saw anything , i do n't want to be a gossip but i think ms. abernathy and your cindy have hooked up .
they spent a lot of time in the water horsing around with each other today , even though they were going out of their way not to be conspicuous , i suspect there was some hank panky going on below the surface .
i said , maybe itll improve the bitchs attitude .
i think i 'll come along tomorrow and we can make a little hank panky of our own .
connie said , can we make a little hank panky now i rather not wait that long .
the next morning everyone was anxious to go ashore and spend the day .
jim sent a crew to reconnoiter the area around the beach when they gave the all clear parties were allowed to go ashore , even the cook asked permission to have a beach barbecue in the afternoon .
it was an idyllic setting and the crew were clearly enjoying themselves , i lived up to my promise and connie and i had gone in to lie on the beach and frolic in the warm clear water .
the cook set up and was preparing racks of ribs for the cookout as late afternoon approached .
back on pisces the couple in the small sailboat returned with the promised fish .
carol had been talking with them and had asked if they would take her and cindy ashore .
they left the ship but instead of coming directly to the beach chose instead to have the couple land drop them off farther down from the group so they could have some privacy .
no one had given them any notice and the watch on duty assumed since cindy was an officer , wearing a sidearm it was all right , and besides they had n't ventured any great distance , so they saw no need to alert jim or herb .
it was late afternoon the ribs were done , and everyone had a plate .
it had been a party atmosphere all day , just the ticket needed for any crew to shed the stresses of being crammed together aboard a small ship .
connie and i were sitting in the sand , a plate between us picking on a rack of ribs when a gunshot rang out .
instantly everyone jumped to their feet and looked in the direction of the sound , down the beach running in our direction came ensign kottmyre with two men in pursuit she turned and fired one of the men pitched forward in the sand the other stopped , hesitated for a second , then turned and ran .
i grabbed the glasses and could see several others in the distance , they had hold of carol abernathy and were dragging her away .
the guards started running down the beach in pursuit , i shouted for them to stop and come back as they were the only protection for the whole group and i did n't want to leave the party undefended .
cindy came running into the gathering dropped to her knees out of breath .
i ran over to her and asked cindy what happened .
she said breathlessly , carol and i went exploring and were on our way back when these guys ' jumped us .
i was able to break free and shot one then we started running , they chased us up the beach , i shot another but they got carol .
i told everyone to get back to the ship , it would take two trips to ferry everyone , the scientists first .
i called the ship and asked them to provide us with cover our day in paradise was over .
i remained with the guards until everyone was off the beach .
back on the ship i immediately called cindy in and asked her to give me a full account of exactly what happened .
she went over it i 'm sure leaving out the more intimate details , when she had finished i said , cindy you disobeyed orders and put lives in danger ill deal with you later , right now i have to focus on the situation with ms. abernathy .
i called the officers into conference i said , from what cindys told me they seemed to have no weapons except knives and machetes she does n't have any idea of how many maybe a dozen , anyway she nailed two of them , one 's still laying on the beach .
i ca n't send a search party out after dark poking around not knowing anything about the area and who were dealing with .
we ca n't do anything tonight but make sure the ship is secure , jim tell your guys to stay awake shoot first and ask questions later .
herb , i want you to find out if anyone aboard has any actual combat experience if we have to go looking i want the best trained men we 've got .
dan how close are you to having your problems fixed ?
captain i 'll be done in a couple of hours .
good i want this ship ready to get under way at a moment 's notice .
ok , those who can , get some sleep and we 'll see what tomorrow brings .
as i sat on the edge of the bunk , connie asked , what are you going to do ?
i do n't know , this is why i did n't want to get into a situation like this , we have very limited response capability ashore .
to tell you the truth , i 'd just as soon leave the bitch here and not risk any more of my crew .
hell she speaks french , it would n't surprise me if they came begging us to take her back .
looks to be a rough day tomorrow honey , try to get some sleep .
the next morning i was on the bridge at daybreak with a mug of coffee when linda said , sir , lookouts spotted a small boat headed this way , i went to the bridge wing and looked through the glasses it was the same small boat and couple .
this time he was waving a white flag .
they came within shouting distance , i told linda to go get connie as she spoke some french , unlike before every gun on the ship was pointed at the two .
he made a jester to come closer , i told jim to let him come along side , the man handed the flag to a rating who came running with it to the bridge and handed it to me .
what i thought was a white flag of truce was , in fact , a pair of ripped up panties with red writing apparently done in lipstick .
i went inside and carefully spread the underwear out on the chart table so as not to smear the writing it read .
they want rifles , bullets , and all the gasoline or they will kill me please help theyre hurting me .
everyone was standing around the chart table looking at the panties .
cindy said dryly , their carols i declined to ask how she knew .
i said , ok we know what they want how do they plan on going about getting it ?
bring the couple on board and have them wait in the conference room .
connie was by this time on the bridge with the rest of us i said , come along i 'm going to need a translator and youre the only one i got .
she said , let me run get my laptop i have a translation app .
that might help .
we sat at the table , i asked connie to see if she could find out how they were involved in this mess .
it took almost an hour for connie to come up with the story .
the couple had dropped off cindy and carol and had no idea of the others presents , they had evidently come over from cap haitian to investigate after seeing the helicopter .
it was a moment of opportunity for them when they found the two women alone , a struggle ensued , and carol was taken prisoner .
there probably would n't have been a whole lot to it but when cindy killed two of their number things changed and now they wanted retribution for the killings in the form of guns and gas .
from what connie was able to ascertain the couple said they were bad men , if they got guns and gasoline they would terrorize those decent few people left like themselves and begged connie not to give them anything .
i asked if carol was ok and they said she had been abused , but they probably would n't kill her if we did n't meet their demands , but would likely keep her as a sex slave .
i could hear the tension in connie 's voice and knew precisely what was going through her mind .
i had to formulate a plan i asked the man and woman if they would help so i would not be forced to give the bad men guns .
they said yes , i had them show me on the map where carol was being held , they said there were eight of them and one who arrived later with an old rifle , outside of the rifle they were armed only with knives , machetes and clubs , the man added he thought they would kill her if we stormed ashore in force .
i had to come up with a plan that did n't involve arming the peasants with assault rifles , as to do so would make those eight capable of subjugating the whole of the population , and start the chain of misery all over again .
nor was i willing to part with our meager store of gasoline for then we would not be able to fly the chopper or use the inflatable .
i was going to have to stall them and formulate a plan .
i sent the couple out and had jim and herb come in .
i said , were going to have to attempt a rescue , which means putting a team together .
herb said , i found your man , dennis neiheimer ships diver , he 's a retired seal .
i said , good send for him right now .
in a couple of minutes , dennis came in and i went over everything we had learned , then said , dennis your the only man aboard who has enough expertise with this sorta thing to pull it off .
i 'm placing you in charge and giving you all the resources we have available starting now .
he said , if i had a team it would be a piece of cake .
theres still an outside chance i could take them out by myself , but i ca n't guarantee the safety of the hostage , they might cut her throat before i could get them all .
it would be nice to have a couple of more guys along who knew what they were doing .
i asked , got anybody in mind ?
he said , i do n't know if sam has any training , but he seems game enough .
i said , i 've known sam for a long time he 's a hunter at heart and he 's damn sure game .
herb send sam in here .
so began the planning , sam volunteered along with little ned borowitz , who had served tours in both iraq and afghanistan .
dennis quickly went to work .
he said , itll be necessary to delay them so we can go in under the cover of darkness .
make up a response telling them we will meet all their demands tomorrow morning .
tell them you 're going to put the stuff in a boat and in turn they will have the couple outside setout with the hostage , we 'll then cut the boat loose with their stuff in it .
just make up anything that will keep them believing it 's going to happen .
i 'm sure they probably got a lookout posted so this afternoon well send in a crew to get one of the shuttle boats off the beach .
my team will go in with them and in all the confusion we 'll hide and wait until tonight then work our way to the hostage and effect an extraction .
as long as they think every ones on the ship theyre less likely to be on guard .
i wrote out a note to carol to be read to the kidnappers explaining the details of the transfer tomorrow and that we would meet their terms .
i ended with what i hoped would have meaning to carol .
be vigilant do not despair as all our thoughts and prayers will be visited on you tonight .
i gave the note to the couple and sent them back to the kidnappers .
we had a lot to do , pisces was n't an assault ship so we had to dig deep to find dennis , ned , and sam adequate equipment .
dennis spent the morning going over the plans until everyone understood their part .
preparations were also made to retrieve one of the boats on the beach and a party was sent to scout the area , dennis went along to get the lay of the land and to pick out which boat would be best suited .
with the help of the powerful glasses on the bridge , dennis was able to locate the lone lookout .
about three thirty in the afternoon both the launch and inflatable were sent to fetch the boat , the team went along with their gear and as the party was working to get the boat freed from the beach they slipped undetected into another and hid .
once the shuttle boat was tied alongside the ship , there was much exaggerated activity .
water filled drums were swung out by the crane and loaded into the boat along with a crate which looked to be filled with rifles .
though it appeared to be full there were only two on top and they had been rendered inoperable , it was conveniently tipped over on the deck so the lookout could catch a glimpse of the rifles .
next two ammo cases filled with junk were loaded .
before dark , both the launch and inflatable were brought on board to give the lookout the impression we were done for the day , now all that was left for us to do , was wait .
the team waited until darkness then dennis left the others to make his reconnaissance , first he sought out the lookout but found to his relief he had gone .
it took him about an hour to cover the distance and locate the group who were camped out in an old villa .
he made note of how many , the layout of the house , and where carol was being held .
when he found her , she was almost naked hands tied behind her back and ankles hobbled so she could n't run .
the group was taking great delight in harassing her , one poking at her private parts with a stick , she would snap back at them in french , which only made them roar with laughter .
dennis watched and studied making a mental picture getting the rhythm of the group .
he waited until they bedded down for the night then made his way back to the others .
dennis signaled the boat that all was in readiness and he led his team toward their objective , on the ship the inflatable was placed in the water at the ready .
the stern anchor had been set so the ship could be swung and the main gun could train along the entire length of the beach .
the ships crew were all wide awake and at general quarters .
jim , herb , and i paced the bridge , as did our two ensigns .
cindy had been walking as if on egg shells since the incident , i had led her to believe that at any moment she could become the target of my wrath , i had deliberately left her with this impression as i felt it would be fit punishment .
i had been a young ensign once and had broken my share of rules luckily none of my capers had resulted in the loss of anyones life .
what her punishment would be depended on the outcome but for the present , i was content to watch her sweat .
in the darkness , we took turns with the night vision glasses .
there were only three pairs on board which still worked .
dennis had the only pair that could be worn there was a large pair on each of the bridge wings and three others not even dan had been able to coax into working .
we took turns watching the beach for any movement .
three oclock rolled around , this was the hour dennis had chosen to commence the operation .
the minutes ticked by and it slowly turned four still nothing had been heard or spotted , by four thirty i was on my sixth cup of coffee and a nervous wreck .
linda suddenly said , flare over there sir .
i looked and sure enough there was a green flare the signal to be picked up .
the inflatable had been waiting at the ready hidden behind the tour boat .
it came to life and sped toward the green flickering light far down the beach , in ten minutes they pulled alongside the gangway among them was an almost naked carol abernathy looking somewhat the worse for wear .
a blanket was quickly passed down she was wrapped and helped on board .
as the team followed sam looked at me and said , dennis is the man .
i said , follow me time for debriefing in the conference room .
i asked dennis how things had gone .
he said , it was too easy there was only one guarding carol and the rest were fast asleep .
i was able to slip in , carol saw me but i made a sign for her to be silent .
the guy guarding her began to stir so i had to slit his throat , i grabbed carol led her from the house , sam threw her over his shoulder and we hauled ass to the pick up point .
i doubt if the others are even awake yet .
nonetheless , i immediately ordered the boat alongside cut loose the aft anchor hauled in and gave orders to prepare to get underway .
dawn was breaking when we saw the group gathered on the beach .
i ordered the anchor raised and we got under way .
the mob on shore was focused on the drifting boat which had almost reached the shore .
herb was standing next to me , i said , herb why do n't you and jim get in a little gunnery practice and give that nice couple a break with starting their new life .
as the ship began to make way , the gun was brought to bear on the boat .
the bunch were now aboard and had begun rummaging through the boxes and opening the water filled drums evidently disappointed the one with the rifle began firing at the ship .
herb gave the order and in three rounds the boat and people ceased to exist .
connie was standing next to me she asked , gw why did you do that to those people .
i told her , if i had n't the couple that helped us would have been blamed and punished just for being decent folk .
chapter nine visions of empire we had made two stops yet how different they had been , cuba poised to make a stunning comeback , and haiti along with the dominican republic almost devoid of life .
it would be generations before the islands scars healed and it once again became the jewel of the caribbean .
i sent a short report to allan by radio as we proceeded to san juan .
there was at least some radio contact with puerto rico and it gave us an understanding of conditions which not good were much better than haiti .
there were between three and six hundred thousand of the population left , they had subsisted mainly on fish but were expanding agriculture and managing to feed themselves .
like cuba , they desperately needed energy and were back to doing everything by manpower alone .
another of the new realities facing us was when someone fell ill they either got better on their own or died .
gone were the miracles of modern medicine , we had few drugs and no sanitary hospitals much less modern diagnostic equipment .
it had regressed to the days when all a physician could do was to hold a hand and comfort the patient .
it was n't much better on pisces , although our medicine chest had remained intact throughout the collapse and we had combed through the mothballed fleet in mayport , many of the drugs we had on board were hopelessly out of date .
plans were in the works to revive the pharmaceutical industry , but it would take years before even the basic drugs were available , until then those , who got sick , would just have to let nature take its course .
aboard pisces i made sure the ship was kept clean , the major reason i had let the cook stay on was his meticulous preparation food and the cleanliness of galley .
he was doing an excellent job , it seemed we always had one meal a day which contained chicken , beef or pork , i was n't about to question him directly on how he had come by this bounty preferring to believe he , in fact , possessed the ability to conjure these great meals out of thin air .
i gave cindy and ms. abernathy a couple of days before i had a talk with them .
i summoned carol first and expected her to come in bristling , and raising hell but i could tell by her demeanor that much of the wind had been taken from her sails as she sat in front of me humbled by the recent events that had befallen her .
she said , captain collins i ca n't thank you enough for rescuing me i never felt so scared and helpless in all my life .
i said , your thanks should go to dennis , sam and ned they risked their lives for you .
ms. abernathy , please understand , i try not to make rules so strict as to be stifling .
god knows i do n't like them either , but once in a while i have to in order to protect the ship and crew .
in future , i would greatly appreciate it if you tried to follow them .
in not doing so , you suffered physical abuse , put members of the crew in jeopardy , and over eight people are now dead .
if these were normal times , ensign kottmyre would certainly be facing a general court martial for disobedience of a direct order and possibly dereliction of duty .
as it is , your back with us in one piece and cindy will get off with no more than a reprimand .
i will try to afford you every opportunity to carry out your research providing it does not adversely affect the safety of the ship .
thank you for coming in .
i had the same talk with cindy and added , if you and ms. abernathy are compelled by an urge to explore in the future , please find some safe place in which to do it .
we had made radio contact with san juan i had told the operator not to get anyones hopes up that we were just a tiny research ship sent out to gather information and it would be months to a year before there was any kind of commerce taking place .
he assured us it would be safe to enter the harbor , still i was a skeptic , it would only take one mistake to have the ship overrun and history had already proven we could make them without trying .
it was agreed we would enter in the morning , stay on our guard , and then put back to sea before nightfall .
we entered just after dawn , passed el morro castle and were surprised to see more than two dozen small sailing vessels putting to sea .
inspection of them through the glasses confirmed they were on their way out to fish , so we continued to make our way into the bay .
we reached the old coast guard station and were again surprised to see the us and puerto rico flags along with the coast guard pennant flying from the staffs .
we anchored off and noticed uniformed men standing on the dock they took up places in a whaleboat and began rowing toward the ship i was impressed by their precision .
as it came within hailing distance , the officer in the stern shouted welcome to san juan pisces we 've been waiting for the first ship for months and youre it .
ensign jeffery jackson usn at your service , permission to come aboard , sir .
he sounded sincere and the crew certainly knew how to handle a whaleboat but the crew were all armed and if they handled their weapons as well as their oars we could find ourselves in a tricky situation , especially if i allowed them all on board .
i asked , jim what do you think .
he said , let jackson come alone but he will be required to surrender his side arm .
i said , i agree .
jim shouted , ensign jackson permission for you only to come on board , please be ready to surrender your side arm .
i said , herb your navy , help me feel this guy out .
jim pass the word , if anyone in that boat makes an attempt to go for a firearm sink the damn thing with the fifty .
the whaleboat pulled smartly alongside the gangway , ensign jackson stepped , off climbed to the deck , crisply saluted the flag , then herb and presented his side arm .
i turned to jim and said , looks like he just stepped out of the academy , all spit , and polish .
jim ordered the whaleboat to stand off and hold station a hundred feet from the ship .
jackson came up to the bridge and saluted .
i said , i 'm captain george collins , this is my exec lieutenant commander jim bishop and my third officer lieutenant commander herb oroyke usn .
sorry about the formalities but were under strict orders not to allow anyone to bring a firearm on board .
come along and give us an update , i 'll send for some coffee .
jeffery jackson it turned out had indeed been a graduate of the academys last class .
he had been home on leave awaiting his first assignment when the collapse came along .
he like everyone else found himself struggling for survival and in the process lost his young wife and baby along with most of his family .
he dug out his uniform and threw himself into the only job he knew .
he started by taking over the coast guard station , recruiting those who had experience , and organizing a fishing fleet .
he had become the official unofficial commander of both the coast guard and navy .
he said , captain i went to school to become a naval officer , i did n't know at the time i was going to be the highest ranking naval officer left in puerto rico .
i just figured things would get back to normal one of these days so decided to get a head start , ive been drilling my guys and getting ready for months , hoping things would pick up .
we got two patrol boats ready to go and the crews trained up , all , we 're waiting on , is some fuel .
right now we patrol the harbor with a couple of whaleboats and work with the police but theres not much crime going on , people arent even stealing food anymore .
i was impressed by what the young man told me , though i knew much of it was due to the fact that he had n't had the chance to have his facets polished by serving in the real world navy .
he reminded me of just what a gung ho bunch we had been when i trained in the old agerholm , and like us he still retained the zeal that comes with being a junior officer waiting for his first taste of command .
the navy could no longer provide him the opportunity so he 'd taken on the task himself .
herb and i questioned young jeffery jackson until we were reasonably satisfied he was legit and posed no danger to us .
he said , captain collins i run a tight ship , san juan i believe is the safest harbor in the caribbean .
i assure you there is no need to have your crew at battle stations as no matter how unorthodox my unit may appear im still an officer in the united states navy and here to serve my country , sir i place myself and my unit under your command .
i said , very well ensign jackson i 'll take you at your word as an officer and a gentleman , welcome aboard the united states noaa research vessel pisces .
he ordered his crew to return to the station and visited with us for remainder of the day , he quickly turned into a young man anxious to learn the fate of his country and what had transpired in the last year or so .
i turned him over to cindy and linda and let them fill him in and bring him up to speed .
one thing struck me as odd ensign jackson had never met the radio operator we had been communicating with .
if ensign jackson was to be effective , he would have to have some way to keep in contact .
i detailed dan and linda to accompany jeff and make contact with the armature radio operator in the hopes that some way could be found to bring the radio equipment at the coast guard station into operation they came back saying the radio operator could n't be found .
from what we could see of san juan , the city was n't totally devoid of life there was a market setup and as late afternoon approached the fishing boats we had seen leaving in the morning returned .
though people were sparse , there was an air of normal day to day life taking place .
all day groups of people had ventured out to see pisces , the arrival of the ship had created much excitement .
our fears had been somewhat allayed so jim and i decided it would be safe to remain at anchor .
this was a us protectorate and it was our obligation to help out its people .
that evening i sent a message to allan advising him of what we had found and requesting the supply ship be diverted to san juan instead of meeting us in the virgins and the coast guard station here could be put into full operation with only minimal outside assistance .
he radioed back that the supply ship had been notified and he was also diverting a small tanker which was to supply key west , they would join up in the straits and could be expected to arrive within a fortnight .
we spent the night at anchor , i still felt the necessity to post double guards and lookouts , but the night was uneventful .
next morning i sent dan over to survey the diesel generator set at the station to see if it could be made serviceable .
he reported back that by going through the fuel system and changing filters he could have it up and running and requested diesel .
i said , dan take just enough diesel to get things up and going , not one drop more .
i do n't want to risk being anchored surrounded by operational patrol boats until i 'm certain things around here are kosher , besides we have to retain the ability to get back to key west .
theres a tanker on the way , but i do n't want to start counting chickens before they hatch .
if we can get stuff ready then when the tanker arrives , it will just be a matter of fill up and go .
i 'm sure young jackson will be thrilled by the news , oh and dan , see if you can find a decent car and get it running , preferably a four wheel drive not a damn hummer or anything big something like a jeep , thanks .
wait , maybe a diesel pickup would be better you never know we might have to do some hauling .
if we were going to stay around for two weeks , i was going to do some exploring of my own .
the crew once again was getting antsy to go ashore , this time i was going to make sure of the dangers before i turned them loose .
i was puzzled things appeared to be well run , i had even seen a couple of police walking a beat yet we had been here almost two days and there had been no official invitation or visit by anyone .
i hadnt expected a brass band to be standing on the dock waving flags , but it did seem strange that not a soul from any governing body had sought contact .
i asked jackson what was passing for a government .
he said there was a committee of sorts that was handling civic affairs and was run by a man named fernando vella .
there was something odd in the way he said run which immediately raised a red flag .
i tried to push jeff farther and though he was hesitant i gleaned enough to reach the conclusion that this mr. vella appeared to be the only one pulling all the strings .
i made the decision right then that before proceeding further i was going to set up a meeting with fernando vella and judge things for myself .
i asked jeffery to get in touch with mr. vella and invite him to have lunch with me tomorrow aboard ship .
i called jim and herb in and said , it might be nothing and maybe i 'm just getting old and jumpy , but i detect an undercurrent going on around here .
i do n't know enough to put my finger on it yet , but i want both of you to keep your eyes open and guard up for anything , which might seem out of the ordinary .
the longer we sit here , the more i feel like the mouse thats just about to get the trap sprung on it .
there 's a guy here named fernando vella that seems to be running the show , he lives in the old governors mansion right up the road , but has n't made any overtures yet .
i have invited him to lunch here tomorrow let 's see if he comes by himself or brings along an entourage .
my orders still stand keep a double guard posted and your side arms handy i do n't think anythings going to happen , but i get this uneasy feeling were being sized up , as i said it 's just a feeling and i 've been wrong before .
id noticed linda and jeffery had taken an immediate liking to each other it was understandable as each was young , good looking , and , shared common rank .
both were of spanish descent and bilingual , even to the casual observer it looked to be the beginnings of a deeper relationship .
i decided i needed to get linda on board before any feelings of affection grew and had time to cloud her judgment .
i really did n't have anything to go on but a hunch , yet if i waited it might be too late .
i felt i knew linda well enough to ask her in for a talk .
i said , linda i 'm going to be frank with you , i believe youve taken a shine to young jeffery , i have too but there 's something going on behind the scenes i ca n't put a finger on .
i wo n't ask you to spy , but i would greatly appreciate if you used your professional eye as an officer and kept a look out for anything that might seem out of the ordinary .
she said , like what ?
well , say like someone else who might also be running the show besides jeff .
its possible in his zeal to do his job he might not be aware someone is manipulating him for their own purposes .
there 's this guy fernando vella , he 's kinda the government right now , i havent met him yet so see what you can find out about him .
linda as a spanish speaker youre in a position to hear things , it might all be nothing yet i 'm always looking for anything that could put the ship in danger .
do you feel comfortable doing this ?
yes sir , i do like ensign jackson but not enough to put my job or the ship on the line for him .
i said , good , i do n't think it will come down to you having to make a choice if anything it will likely keep ensign jackson from getting in harm 's way .
you have my permission to go ashore whenever you choose and as i said it might turn out to be much ado about nothing .
at the moment , i felt completely safe as i was sure mr. vella wouldnt make a move before he had a chance to size up the situation .
dan had a truck ready and for the rest of the afternoon , i was going to take my green eyed lady and do some sightseeing .
dan said , captain heres the best , i could do for you , brand new right off the lot less than twenty miles its a chevy four door diesel .
i said , christ dan could n't you find something a tad smaller ?
he said , not in a diesel .
i asked jeff to come along as guide and invited linda as well , we loaded up and skipper hopped in the bed .
the first stop was moro castle , we walked the ram parts , i had been here on a cruise ship years ago , what had changed since were the modern field artillery pieces sitting in strategic locations some facing seaward others pointed toward the bay , i asked jeff , this some of your stuff ?
he said , no sir the committee wanted them placed here in the event of an attack .
i said , an attack , who in the hell they expecting , drake ?
i walked around the guns , there wasnt a soul in sight , but i could tell they were well maintained .
i could n't see any ready ammunition but suspected it was close enough so these pieces could be brought into action within minutes .
i gazed at the bay where pisces was swinging at anchor looking like a sitting duck .
if my hunch was correct i had so far played right into their hands , i looked again and saw a vision of pisces , the supply ship , and tanker held hostage while their precious cargoes were siphoned off to fuel the newest dictatorship .
i had thought we were ushering in a new era yet my senses were telling me the old one had not yet faded .
damned why ca n't things go right once in a while , what the hell was i doing down here anyway , pussy footing around on a quasi research ship with a pea shooter gun and a bunch of scientists pretending to do research .
what i needed was an old cruiser and a company or two of marines , damn you allan bright .
every fiber in my being was urging me to lean over and say to connie its time to go home dear .
instead , i said , jeff youre the tour guide where to next ?
we drove by the governors mansion , which looked like a fortress with several armed guards patrolling , then toured parts of the city , the streets were clear though lined with dilapidated empty buildings every once in a while people could be seen going about their daily lives .
the truck drew attention as it was the only vehicle anyone had seen moving in almost a year and was taken as a sign that civilization was on the move again and soon they too would be driving .
linda and jeff sat in the back seat carrying on a conversation drifting in and out of spanish .
all the years i had worked in central america id never managed to pick up the language .
that evening i kept my fears to myself i had already expressed them earlier and was just waiting to have them confirmed .
i still had the opportunity to take pisces safely to sea tonight , but tomorrow during lunch if i did n't play my cards right that option might no longer be on the table .
was i playing a fools game and putting ship and crew in jeopardy , what about connie could i gamble with her safety and the trust she had placed in me , was i about to betray it ?
i was hit by a wave of panic and almost reached for the phone and give jim the order to get underway but managed to restrain myself .
no , the hand had n't been dealt yet , much less played .
i could n't leave the table before the game had even begun .
connie asked , gw is something bothering you ?
youve been so restless tonight .
i said , no dear just wondering if i 'm truly worthy your love .
why would you even think something like that ?
i said , bringing you along on this escapade , risking your life , it just does n't seem a fair thing to do to the one i love .
she said , i could n't have been in much more dire straits than when you found me , since then its all been like a dream , anyway we agreed to face danger together .
george honestly we 've gone over this before you have more important things to worry about .
lie down and let me rub your back , god youre so tense your muscles are like iron bars .
as i lay there connies hands working their magic , i thought george you 're worked up over nothing this man is going to turn out to be a nice guy and you 'll feel silly .
oh , honey right there , yes .
next day i decided to do what i usually did and to go with the flow , if it became necessary i felt i could bluff mr. vella long enough to get pisces to sea .
eleven thirty rolled around and all the preparations were in place .
jim called excitedly , george youve got to see this !
jim never addressed me as george so i knew he was distracted .
i hurried over to the bridge port bridge wing .
on the dock sitting astride a black horse decked out in a colorful uniform was obviously mr. vella , surrounding him were what i could only describe as a half dozen thugs .
i noticed jeff spring into action , as mr. vella dismounted he rushed to escort him and another man to a waiting whaleboat .
i said to jim , sometimes i hate it when i 'm right , i wonder if he expects me to salute or bow .
ok , here we go , lets see what this asshole has up his sleeve .
mr. vella stepped on deck i met him and shook hands .
he said , captain collins welcome to puerto rico , i must apologize that it has taken so long for us to meet , but i have been kept busy with the affairs of running my country .
i had linda standing by to translate , but mr. vella had no trouble turning a word in english .
we went to lunch where i introduced him to connie and dr. brothers , who i had invited to represent the scientific party .
mr. vella introduced the other man as his aid antonio dearmas .
we sat down to the meal , i had told the cook to prepare something simple and i apologized saying , please excuse the meal as are food stocks are somewhat depleted .
throughout the lunch , nothing but pleasantries were exchanged but enough was said that i quickly reached the conclusion mr. vella was n't the buffoon he appeared to be .
i asked him how he would like to be addressed , as i saw no distinguishing rank on his uniform , he said , the uniform is merely an ornament of office i am just a simple citizen engaged in my civic duty .
after lunch we adjourned for private talks i would have liked linda to be present , but i wanted them to think they could cross talk freely in spanish , besides i had the cabin bugged and linda was listening in .
vella said , so captain tell me what brings you here and what are the conditions in the united states ?
i said .
were here to conduct scientific research you met dr. brothers at lunch .
the us is on its way to recovery and coming along , but we still have a ways to go .
captain , please forgive me , but it seems unusual that the united states would send a scientific party before establishing a diplomatic mission .
i said , a diplomatic mission is being planned as for us it had not been our intention to stop in san juan , but rather to conduct fisheries studies along the coast , we have been in contact with an armature radio operator here in the city and on his advice decided to stop for a visit .
i was so impressed with young ensign jackson and the job he has done organizing the coast guard station i decided to stay for a bit and help him out .
vella said , yes young jackson is a fine young man and good worker .
i have rendered him all the assistance i can , he has told me your men have put things in working order but there is a question of fuel .
i notice you have a truck .
i myself have to be content for the moment to go by horse .
i wonder if there is anyway i might procure some diesel or gasoline from you .
i said , we have just enough to take us back home , but i 'm happy to inform you a supply ship and tanker will be coming in next week and there will be plenty of fuel available then .
he said , well then captain i see no reason why you ca n't let us have say a thousand gallons of diesel and you can replenish from the tanker when it arrives .
i said , mr. vella i would like to oblige you but i 'm sure you realize the position i 'm in , if for some reason the tanker were to not arrive it would then be impossible for me to conduct my mission or take the ship safely home .
with obvious disappointment he said , yes captain you have a point , i understand you must think of your ship and crew first , and of course , your charming wife , so young one could easily mistake her for your daughter .
now captain collins i must inform you things have changed in puerto rico over the last year as i 'm sure they have in the rest of the world .
we have come to think of ourselves more in the terms of an independent nation working toward the goal of one day bringing together all the islands of the caribbean into a single nation of states .
that 's not to say we do n't welcome warm relations between our countries .
puerto rico and the us have had a long partnership .
we were interrupted by the intercom , captain could you come to the engine room dan needs to see you sir .
i said , excuse me gentlemen for just a minute my chief engineer needs to see me , i 'm sorry for the interruption , i 'll be right back .
i hurried out of the cabin this had been prearranged so that linda could eves drop .
i went down to engineering and returned in five minutes .
i said , sorry for the interruption .
vella said , quite understandable captain , i also find much of my time taken up by petty matters yet they must be attended to .
mr. vella i can well understand your position as puerto rico was left on its own to fend for itself .
its understood by everyone that things can never be as they were .
i 'm sure the united states will be amicable toward your goals and i look forward to a future where there is cooperation and warm relations between our countries .
this seemed to please him , we talked for a while longer and the meeting came to an end .
vella said , thank you for lunch captain now i must extend to you and mrs. collins an invitation to dine with me saturday evening at seven .
ensign jackson will accompany you and show the way .
when they left , i went and quizzed linda .
get anything interesting ?
a little sir it was mostly about you and mrs. collins .
they were debating whether to take you at face value .
dearmas thought you were rather naive , but mr. vella was n't so sure .
what did they say about connie ?
well , sir i rather not say directly they talked about certain of mrs. collins attributes let 's just say they were flattering .
oh , dearmas did address him at one point as generalissimo they were starting to say something about the tanker when you walked back in .
thanks , linda good job say would you mind attending dinner with us saturday evening .
no sir not at all , this is getting interesting .
i said , keep in mind , it could also get dangerous .
i had formed an impression of mr. vella , he was smart and polished , not some ragtag revolutionary that had swept down from the hills to usurp power .
he had been formulating his plans and carefully putting a rudimentary infrastructure in place yet being careful not to step on toes .
he had formed the nucleus of a navy and army under the guise of a local coast guard and domestic police force .
he had all the necessary assets and i was sure once he had the tanker to fuel his enterprise he would waste no time in consolidating power .
i wasnt sure if vella was aware he had tipped his hand , but what he said led be to believe he had aspirations of sweeping through the caribbean islands establishing an empire .
i was n't so sure where he intended to stop or how he was going to maintain it once he had achieved his initial goal .
it was a certainty that one small tanker of fuel could not an empire maintain .
i had managed to retain the option of taking pisces to sea and calling off the tanker and supply ship , leaving the situation in puerto rico static .
i could then contact allan and have him pass it on to washington and let them sort it out .
at the moment , mr. vella and i were waltzing partners both hoped they were leading yet each being careful not to step on the others toes .
i could with some luck keep this dance going until the two ships arrived , once they entered the harbor and came under the guns at castle morro all bets were off .
i had so far made all the decisions , the ones , that needed to be made now , were way above my pay grade .
the cheese had n't got binding yet , but the time had arrived for a conference .
i assembled jim , herb , dan , and dennis as well for i had come to value his opinions on military matters .
i opened by saying , gentlemen i believe we have sailed right into the makings of a dictatorship which i believe if allowed to reach fruition could encompass the whole of the antilles .
i think mr. vella has plans in place and is ready to act upon them .
i may have unwittingly played right into his hands by diverting the supply ship and tanker to come here .
i believe once the ships arrive we may well find ourselves prisoners and he will use the fuel and most likely the ships as well to carry out his plan , i 'm not exactly sure of his ultimate objective , i think theres more to it than just taking over a few scattered islands .
for the next few days before the tanker arrives we 're likely to be ok , i 'd like to take some of that time and gather more intelligence .
as captain decisions are ultimately left to me , but i feel the severity of the circumstances we find ourselves in at the moment is a special one that requires more than just one man 's opinion .
therefore , i 'm going to ask for your help in making the decision on whether we play it safe and put to sea or stay and face significant risk to us all .
gentlemen , the table is now open to discussion .
i called on jim , jim .
he said , captain are you sure of vella 's intentions ?
i said , all , i can say for the moment , is , it walks like a duck , and quacks like a duck if it starts swimming like a duck then i 'll be sure .
herb asked , you think the jackson kids a party to it ?
i do n't know i had my doubts , but i 'm less sure of them now , linda 's working on him i hope she comes up with something .
getting back to vella he referrers to himself as mister but his aid addressed him as generalissimo , the definitions pretty clear on what that means .
if we decide to stay we 're going to go into intelligence mode find out all we can about the extent of his operation how many people , quantity and what kind of equipment he 's got .
it 's not going to be easy , i 'm sure were being watched and no one except linda speaks fluent spanish .
i 'd like to know if he 's got any opposition , he does n't strike me as someone who would leave those who oppose him living very long but i think that maybe he 's still walking lightly waiting to consolidate power .
a tanker full of fuel would certainly let him do it .
anyway that 's the score up to now lets make up our minds and get on with it one way or another .
herb was first , permission to speak freely .
i said , certainly herb .
captain , i think you have already made your decision you 're just not completely confident it 's the right one if you were you , would n't be putting it to a committee vote .
i 'll be the first to say there 's a lot of risks involved , but that comes with the territory of being in the military .
i do n't believe it to be in any way foolhardy .
jim your next .
captain my jobs to be your executive officer and carry out your orders , your the most lenient co i 've ever worked for yet when you do step up to the plate you hit a home run , i 'll agree with herb risky yes , foolhardy no , i 'm in .
dennis .
captain , i just take orders and carry them out hell the only time i feel like i 'm in danger , is when some son of a bitch has their hands around my throat .
killing used to be my profession you guys come up with a mission , i 'll do my best to carry it out .
i said , i take it the consensus is we carry on for now , thanks , i appreciate the vote of confidence , i hope it is n't misplaced .
ok , well gather all the intelligence we can then beat it out of here before the tanker arrives .
dennis , i 'm putting you in command of any shore side operations , go comb through the crew and make up a team i guess you already got sam and ned see if theres anyone else .
well , that 's all we can do for now .
the rest of the day went quietly i let the scientific party go ashore and had jeff escort them as he had done with us .
i sent dennis along with them to scope out the battery at morro castle .
connie , ned , and myself took the inflatable and toured the harbor i wanted to see what craft might be available to mr. vella for his coming invasion .
i decided tomorrow i would get gerald and take a tour in the chopper .
there was a light rap on the door just enough to wake me , i sat up looked at the clock it was just before five in the morning .
the rapping came again , usually i would be hailed on the intercom or phone .
i got out of bed connie was still sleeping .
i opened the door , it was linda i quickly closed it to just a crack as i was in my underwear and said in a low voice .
whats wrong ?
sir i have something to tell you .
i said , ca n't it wait .
no sir i think you 'll want to hear this .
i said , just a second let me get a robe on .
now robed , we stood in the passageway .
captain i found out what you wanted to know about jeff , i had to sleep with him to make sure .
i said , linda that 's going a little beyond the call of duty .
she said , i did n't consider it to be a hardship , sir .
ok , i 'm sure you did n't wake me just to tell me you two had a great time in bed .
no sir , just that i 'm a hundred percent sure he 's on our side , he wants to meet with you right now .
i asked , where is he ?
she said , in the conference room .
i said , i do n't expect my officers to be gofers but could you round us up some coffee .
she said , yes sir , no problem .
i got dressed then went into the conference room jeffery was waiting .
i said , linda says you have something to tell me .
yes sir , i said , go ahead shoot .
he said , sir you met mr. villa have you formed an opinion of him ?
yes i have but i 'd prefer to hear yours first .
well sir i think mr. vella is a dangerous man he has visions of setting himself up as emperor of the entire caribbean , when i say entire i mean from mexico all the way around to venezuela clear to cuba make the whole thing his private lake nothing goes through it without his permission .
i said , that 's a bold plan how does he intend to carry it out ?
sir , that tanker coming in , is the first step it will allow him to consolidate power all along the chain to venezuela .
hes in contact with folks in columbia , venezuela and panama their working as we speak to take control of the oil fields and refineries down there .
you probably do n't know that vella was a key player in the drug trade before the troubles .
i did n't put much stock in any of it , but ive watched him work for over a year , he might be a crook , but he 's a damned smart crook .
i know you been wondering where i fit into all this , i figured that out when you sent linda snooping around .
dont get me wrong i like linda very much and was using her to find out as much as i could about you as well .
i did start out to fix up the coast guard station and get the fishing fleet organized then vella came along and offered to help .
i was overjoyed and remained gullible for a couple of months then i began to realize he was using my talents to build his navy .
captain at first i was scared shitless , i was a young ensign , on my own surrounded by chaos with no one to turn to .
then something happened , i woke up one morning and thought i 'm a graduate of annapolis , i 've been trained to command and make decisions , so by god i decided to start making them .
i figured someday i 'd be forced to fight vella so i began training those men i had hand picked and vetted alongside vella 's thugs , as soon as i got a crew trained up i cut them loose so not to be obvious .
he asked me once why i went through so many men i told him i was picky and they could n't make the grade .
now i have almost as many men as vella does , the difference mine are trained , loyal , and well disciplined .
linda had joined us and was pouring the coffee .
he went on , i had to play dumb and wide eyed its fooled vella and by what linda 's told me you as well .
captain i 'm sorry but i could n't tip my hand not even to you .
that radio operator isnt on the other side of town but right in the mansion working for vella , he was n't about to get any of our radio equipment working , that 's why i never bothered to meet him .
i told you i was an officer in the united states navy , i meant it .
i have been trying to serve and defend my country to the best of my ability .
i sat toying with the coffee mug feeling as if i had just been dealt a hand full of aces .
i said , linda would you mind fetching dennis neiheimer.jeff , dennis is a retired seal he has a lot of experience carrying out covert operations , after what you 've told me i 'm going to take a chance and throw my lot in with yours .
he said , captain it might be wise to move pisces out of here while you still can , i can assure you those guns at morro work .
i said , jeff in due time , you filled in the missing pieces and i 'd like to maybe come up with a way to nip this thing in the bud .
the coast guards not only military but law enforcement as well , if mr. vella has broken any united states law we can nail him , from what youve told me he 's broke just about everyone in the book .
this might be a commonwealth , but it 's still considered us territory , even if it was n't i 've been known to bend a few rules once in a while .
dennis came in .
i said , morning dennis , pour yourself a cup and join the party.dennis neiheimer meet lieutenant jeff jackson .
jeff stared at me .
yes and that 's first lieutenant jackson putting a unit together under the nose of the enemy merits a promotion in any mans navy .
hell jeff , pull this off and your well on your way to flag rank .
i want you to go over everything with dennis give him details of all your assets so he has an idea of what 's available , also exactly what vella has stacked against us .
if he 's putting an armada together , i havent seen it .
jeff said , not here sir you wo n't , roosevelt roads that 's where he stashes all his stuff .
i said , put your heads together and come up with some plans .
when i got back to the cabin connie was just waking , she yawned , your up early .
i said smugly , early bird catches the worm while youre getting dressed i 'll fill you in .
i went over what i had learned with jim and herb now everyone was up to speed .
we were not out of the woods yet , some way had to be found to neutralize vella and his organization and replace it with a legitimate government this depended on what dennis and jeff could cook up .
i got a hold of gerald and made arrangements to launch the chopper , i wanted to take an excursion and see rosy roads for myself .
gerald and i made the trip to the old base jeff was right there was a collection of rag tag vessels from patrol boats to sailing yachts .
it was almost laughable yet at this particular juncture in history i had no doubt it would be sufficient to subdue anything he came across , besides he could easily add to his fleet along the way .
yep , a few weeks after obtaining fuel , he would be on the march taking one island after another unimpeded by any major power .
who would ever think that a tiny island could turn into a world power , it was a plot suitable for a james bond film .
dennis and jeff had planned all day , they had to be careful as vella had spies watching all the activity around the station .
they had done it under the guise of working on one of the patrol boats .
dennis came to see me .
cap .
we have several scenarios worked out they all require cutting the head off the snake that is getting vella out of the way .
he suffers the classic flaw of all crime bosses , paranoia , always worried those under him will try to bump him off and take over .
he holds all the strings and makes all of the decisions himself .
outside of dearmas those underneath him ca n't wipe their asses without his consent , we get him along with dearmas and the whole shebang falls apart .
if jeff 's right and i have no reason to doubt him , he has more men in vella 's organization than vella does , one word from him and everything but vella 's bodyguards are history .
they could be the main problem , he does n't go anywhere without them their mean , tough , and loyal .
he keeps them that way by letting them have their choice of women , from the things jeff told me there a pretty sadistic bunch .
i said , dennis i have a dinner engagement with the generalissimo saturday evening i 'll try to think of someway to cut him and dearmas out of the herd .
had we known what the situation was when i had them both on the boat we could have taken care of them then .
while i work on vella tell jeff to be ready to jump on the opportunity when it comes along , and dennis see if you can find some way to take those guns at el morro out of the equation they bother me more than does vella .
saturday rolled around we were dressing for dinner .
i said , well i hope we can charm the generalissimo for a while longer , though i do n't enjoy playing the role of snake charmer .
it seems mr. vella has taken a fancy to you , linda said he made some flattering comments .
that 's what she told you wan na know what she told me .
i said , what ?
he said i had nice tits , bet that i had a tight pussy and was going to be a great piece of ass said he could n't wait to fuck the shit out of me .
i 'm sure the bastard 's already done it in his mind .
gw i do n't know if i can look that son of a bitch in the face without spitting in it .
i said , play the part for a bit i 'm working on a plan to nail the sob when i get him i 'll give you first crack at kicking him in the balls .
if he lays a hand on you i 'll kill him but i have to concede , hes right about your attributes .
she said , you men are all alike sexist pigs a heart .
i said , not me honey i married you strictly for your mind .
we met jeffery and linda on the dock and got into the pickup , two armed men climbed in the bed .
jeff grinned and said , vella thinks they work for him , but there among some of my best men , ironic isnt it .
jeff chauffeured it was dusk and there were just a few people here and there shortly we came to an ornate wrought iron gate , the guards knew jeff and ushered him through and we stopped in front of the large historic governors mansion .
we entered the candlelit interior it was like stepping back in time .
sconces and chandeliers bathed the rooms in candlelight giving the ambiance of a seventeenth century palace .
mr. vella came to greet us resplendent in the most elaborate uniform i had ever seen .
he smiled warmly , captain , jeffery , and lovely ladies welcome to my humble home , come let me introduce you to the other guests .
vella introduced us all around with linda and jeff providing additional translation .
we were treated and entertained in a manner befitting visiting royalty .
this facade was so well done i forgot the sinister plot that lay behind it , whatever mr. vella was i could n't fault him for not being a gracious host .
connie looked beautiful in the candlelight like a true princess , the surroundings had also put her at ease , and i noticed her coyly flirting with mr. vella .
i thought good girl charm the snake then watch hubby pinch off its head .
observing the group gave me an idea if he liked pomp then maybe i could use it to my advantage .
i needed to totally disarm him and gain his trust , what better way than to appeal to his grandiose nature .
as the night drew to a close i took mr. vella aside and said , i must thank you for your hospitality , i feel privileged being your guest it has shown me there is still hope for civility in the world , you are a most gracious host mr. villa .
he looked pleased and said , well thank you captain collins , but the privilege has been mine you are the first visitors we 've had since the troubles came and it was the least i could do .
i said , while i have your attention i wonder if i could impose upon you for a favor ?
our radio equipment is down at the moment and i need to send a message to my commander captain bright .
i understand theres an armature radio operator in town would it be possible for him to send a message ?
of course , please give dearmas your message and he will deliver it personally .
well , i was going for broke , i wrote out the message placed it in an envelope then handed it to dearmas i was counting on it being read .
capt .
a .
bright , mayport , as per ships arrival request permission to rendezvous at sea and provide escort into san juan .
believe it advantageous to support mr. vellas position as leader wish to invite him and party as would go far cementing relations between countries .
capt .
g. collins , pisces .
i was hoping i had n't gone overboard and wondered what allan would make of it , probably that i had finally gone around the bend .
the trap was baited now to get back to the ship and send allan a secure explanation .
back on the boat i sent for dennis i may have hit on a solution to our vella problem , i 'm going extend an invitation for him to be aboard next saturday to meet up with the ships and if ive read him correctly his ego will jump at the chance to bathe in the limelight .
when we get to sea , i 'll arrest him and that dearmas character .
you and jeff can then begin to dismantle his organization we 'll remain safely offshore until you give the all clear .
in the event , he balks at the invitation i 'll still be able to take pisces to sea provision and send the tanker and supply ship back and we 'll go on our merry way .
unfortunately , we 'll be kicking the can down the road and leaving young jeff hung out to dry .
it 's only a matter of time before vella 's buddies in venezuela manage to get a refinery going and he 'll still be able to fuel his enterprise .
next day i sent the invitation rsvp to mr. vella the following morning it was accepted .
good all was going according to plan and it was down to fine tuning .
i wanted to add a little icing and decorate the ship .
i put cindy in charge and told her to pull out all the stops , by the following friday night pisces looked like a circus wagon , i had even created a prominent spot in front of the bridge for the generalissimo to make his triumphant entrance into the harbor .
saturday morning mr. vella and dearmas arrived and were ferried out to the ship i welcomed him and went over the itinerary .
he was impressed that he would be given the place of prominence .
i said , sir it is only fitting that you be seen leading your country back to prosperity , my commander concurred so consider yourself the guest of honor .
i had ordered all weapons to be placed out of sight , sam and ned borowitz were the exceptions they would provide the muscle when the arrest was made .
both vella and dearmas had cheerfully surrendered their pistols and so i saw no difficulty coming .
we weighed anchor and departed the harbor in a gala mood .
i showed mr. vella where he should stand on the return trip in order to have the best exposure .
he seemed relaxed and i was sure it was due in part to the fact the guns on morro were being manned .
once we were at their mercy he , would be in total control .
the tanker and supply ship were waiting just beyond the range of the guns , he asked , captain why so far out to sea ?
i said , mr. vella i wanted to have time for us to enjoy a pleasant lunch before we returned .
ive had my cook working all night to prepare a meal i hope will rival the one we enjoyed with you the other evening .
he seemed satisfied .
i did n't tell him that while we were enjoying lunch he would be dining on bread and water in the makeshift brig .
i wanted vella to get a good look at the ships so he could later reflect on just how close he had come to realizing his dream .
we made contact with the ships formed up for our grand entrance into the harbor with pisces in the lead .
vella was excited and licked his lips nervously , i thought ok , now i got you bastard and gave the signal .
sam and ned walked on to the bridge .
i said , fernando vella i am placing you under arrest for acts of sedition and other crimes against the people of puerto rico and the united states of america .
vella showed genuine surprise sam and ned moved in to place them in cuffs .
it would have gone smoothly except dearmas bolted for the door and without breaking stride went over the railing into the sea , vella took advantage of the moment of confusion grabbed connie around the neck and produced a derringer from his sleeve and placed it to her head , everyone froze .
he said , captain tell your men to lay down their arms or she will die , i look forward to knowing your wife better , but i assure you i will not hesitate to put a bullet in her pretty head .
i looked at connie she had the same look of fear and terror in those green eyes as when i had first found her .
i said , vella give it up or you 'll never get off this ship alive .
he said , that may be true captain , but you will have to make the decision on whether your wife lives or dies .
can you truly condemn this young woman whom you love so much to her death , i think not ?
captain , order those ships to follow you into the harbor .
i knew vella was n't bluffing and it presented me with the worst dilemma of my life , my duty to country and all aboard the ships versus connie 's life .
the bastard was right , i could n't let her die in front of me my bond of love to her was stronger than that to my duty .
i needed to buy some time and was hoping what i was about to do wasnt going betray my ship and crew to meet his demands .
i reached for the mike , connie shouted , george do n't .
she elbowed villa viciously in the ribs and broke free from his grasp the effort spun her around the derringer went off connie pitched forward onto the deck .
sam was close to vella grabbed a pair of binoculars and as vella began to recover sam with all the force in his powerful arm struck vella splitting his skull open and breaking the glasses vella fell to the deck brains spilling from the wound .
everyone rushed to connie she lay face down on the deck with a puddle of red expanding from beneath her .
i turned her over and cradled her head in my lap her blouse was already soaked with blood .
she opened those blue green eyes that so captivated me and said weakly , i could n't let you do it not even for me , i love you too much .
then her eyes closed .
ned was the closest thing we had to a doctor he ripped open her blouse and said , i have to try to stop this bleeding get the medical kit jim was standing above me i said , keep these ships out of range .
you have it , i relinquish command .
in a moment , ned was working on her .
he said , i can slow it down , but she needs surgery right away , without it she 'll be dead in less than two hours .
jim had already made calls to the ships there were no doctors aboard he called jeff who said he knew a surgeon , but it was n't safe for us to come in as the guns were still under the control of vella 's men and posed a threat .
gerald was on the bridge i asked , can you fly the chopper in these conditions ?
he said , i 'll be an iffy proposition .
i asked , ned can she survive the trip in the chopper , he said , i think it 's her only chance .
i asked , gerald are you willing to try it ?
he said , i 'll get ready , better get her in before we put it over the side .
sam carried connie to the helicopter and strapped her in .
her tan face now pale and drawn reminded me of the frail creature sitting on the settee that first night .
the chopper was swung over in the lee of the ship , which provided some measure of protection .
gerald dived over the side and swam to the machine unhooked the cable climbed aboard while two other swimmers towed the helicopter away from the ship and soon the chopper though pitching violently in the waves staggered into the air and headed toward land .
i watched it disappear and suddenly felt old and empty .
connie had become my life without her there would be no future left to me .
i had paid far too dear a price and what should have been a triumph had turned into hollow victory , leaving me with only the taste of bile to savor .
i wandered slowly back to our cabin and set on the bunk .
i took connie 's nightgown in my bloody hands put it to my face .
it retained the faint fragrance of her , i broke down and began to cry .
jim and herb were running the ship vella along with his vision of empire was unceremoniously dumped over the side .
dearmas had attempted to swim to a nearby fishing boat but was cut in two by the fifty .
jim was keeping the ships out of range of the artillery at morro castle and following the progress of the battle on the vhf .
connie had arrived and was undergoing surgery that was all we knew .
cindy brought me a tray i asked if there was any news she said , not yet sir , i 'll let you know the minute i hear anything .
i thanked her but left the food untouched .
i was in limbo waiting for news .
i tried to lay down hoping for sleep to quell the sadness yet i could only lay on the bunk hearing connie 's last words and thinking of those eyes that i loved so much .
no , i would have gladly given vella his empire in exchange for my dear fresh and blood girl .
i could well understand how helen of troy had caused the launching of a thousand ships .
what force was there that could be greater than love ?
i felt someone gently shaking my shoulder .
sir , wake up .
i had n't been asleep but in a stupor dreaming of connie and had almost expected to see her when i opened my eyes .
linda what is it ?
news about connie , the doctor , said he managed to stop the bleeding but she 's lost a lot of blood , he has none to give her and needs donors but has no way to type blood .
i sat up on the edge of the bunk .
sir i have the same type as connie so does carol abernathy well be glad to donate but they still hold the castle and we ca n't go in .
it 's too rough for the helicopter and geralds stuck in san juan .
i said , ok , linda can ned collect blood ?
she said , he says so .
i said , will you ask ms. abernathy and set it up with ned , thanks so much linda i appreciate it .
she said , sir connie is our friend and after what she did , well you know what i mean .
i said in a cracking voice choked with tears , she 's quite a gal is n't she , linda said , yes sir that she is .
i had wallowed in self pity long enough now connie 's life was again in my hands , there was only fifteen miles separating her from the life giving fluid she needed to survive , it was up to me to overcome the obstacles and make sure she got it .
i still wore the blood stained clothes , i quickly changed and went to the bridge .
jim asked , ready to resume command sir .
i said , no jim you and herb run things for a while , what 's the situation ?
well , the bad guys still hold morro , dennis , and jeff have them boxed in while theyre cleaning out the rest of the town .
i said , sure wish dennis had done something about those damned guns .
jim said , he tried to spike them , but vella 's men discovered it and were able to get two or three back in operation .
i said , jim i 'm going to need the launch , ned 's collecting blood for connie when he 's finished i 'll run it in .
captain those guns you 'll never make it passed them .
i said , i have to try that was a brave thing she did .
she 's my wife i and owe it to her .
i 'm going alone so i wont put anyone else in danger .
the launch was put over the side i placed the cooler on the floor and was just about to cast off when sam jumped aboard .
i said , sam i 'm going alone .
sam said , gw you do n't give me orders , get going were wasting time .
we proceeded toward the harbor entrance i was on the vhf with dennis and said , thought you took care of those frigging guns .
sorry captain , we managed to take most of them out before they could stop us , theres only two you really have to worry about .
sam and i felt we were going to make it as we were almost into the harbor before the first shell landed .
it was way over and i was betting we were fast enough and such a small target they would n't be able to get the range .
two more rounds missed by a mile then they got lucky and a shell landed close enough that shrapnel peppered the boat , miraculously neither sam nor i were hit but in less than a minute the engine began missing and quit .
the launch slowed to a stop we were a sitting duck all they had to do was to walk in on us .
sam threw open the engine cover , looked and said , they got the fucking fuel line .
we both dug into the compartment the steel line coming from the tank to the engine was severed clean .
i looked around for a rubber line to splice it with when another shell roared overhead and landed three hundred yards away i jerked a hose off the air cleaner it was a tad too large .
i found a roll of electrical tape and wrapped both ends of the steel line then forced the hose on .
i yanked a length of wire off a sender and fashioned tourniquets using a screwdriver and wrench to twist the wire tight around each end of the hose .
i finished just as another shell went whizzing by this time landing close enough to send spray into the boat .
i said , we screw around any longer were bound to catch one , hold on to these i 'll try to fire it up .
i turned the key fuel squirted from the spliced line yet i was hoping the injectors would self bleed .
i cranked the starter one cylinder hit then another and we started limping along making maybe six knots .
sam was holding the wrench and screwdriver trying to keep the line from leaking .
the gunners were getting better as shells were landing all around us it would only be a matter of minutes before we were hit .
i was startled by an explosion at the castle followed by another i looked astern and there was pisces heading in from sea with her gun firing .
i grabbed the mike and shouted .
god damn you jim do n't be risking my fucking ship .
he replied , captain shes my fucking ship now , you just worry about that blood .
the guns on morro switched targets and there was a splash 200 yards from the ship .
the coast guard station was almost in view as the diesel again started missing and died .
the wire had broken and we began rummaging through the boat for hose clamps when i looked up and saw the whaleboat coming around the bend toward us with the oarsmen pulling so hard she had a bone in her teeth .
in minutes , they were alongside , and i handed the cooler over .
sam said , go , i got this shit under control .
i hopped in the whaleboat and it pulled away .
in the distance , pisces was engaged in a dual with the battery , a large explosion at the fort gave evidence she was more than holding her own and had put at least one of the guns out of action .
as we disembarked at the coast guard dock , there was another larger explosion in the distance and castle morro fell silent .
with the threat to my steel mistress diminished i concentrated on saving my flesh and blood girl , i climbed in the pickup and jeff tore through the streets , he tried to give me an update as we went but i barely heard him as i was focused only on getting the precious red fluid into connie .
we pulled up to the doctor 's house he met us at the door , took the blood , and began the transfusion .
connie looked so pale laying there barely breathing .
the doctor spoke broken english , but i was able to gather the bullet had damaged a vein or artery .
he credited ned 's training as a medic packing the wound and stanching the bleeding with saving her life .
i slept in a chair next to her bed , we had only spent one night apart when i had gone after the hurst and this was the only night i had spent on dry land in over a year .
the next morning she awoke , i was holding her hand , never had i been so overjoyed to see eyelids open .
she turned her head a faint smile came to her lips and in a weak voice , she said , hello gw , you look tired honey .
then she squeezed my hand .
it was three days before connie could be moved back to the ship and during that time , i never left her side .
thankfully she was young and strong and though it was painful with no anesthetics , she was recovering nicely .
the big worry had been infection as we had no antibiotics available , but ned and the doctor had been vigilant changing the dressing religiously , ned said the surgeon had done a great job and there would hardly be a scar .
i teased her saying now that you got abernathy blood in you i 'd better not catch you chasing cindy down the passageways .
connie said , be nice she saved my life .
just joking , i 'll admit we got off on the wrong foot but carol 's mellowed out since haiti , she 's an interesting women when you get to know her and she 's damn sure earned my undying gratitude .
connie said , maybe i 'd better start watching you .
i said , no honey youre plenty peculiar enough for me .
jim asked me to let him know when i wished to take over command .
i took him aside , jim i can no longer be effective as captain of pisces , i put my personal interests above duty and in doing so risked the lives of all serving under me , that in itself renders me unfit to command .
jim said , i do n't buy that sir , i was there so was herb , linda , cindy , and dan , we all agreed we would have done no different had any of us been in command .
i have no doubt you would have acted , in the same manner , had it been any one of us , it just happened to be connie .
captain you asked for a vote of confidence when this thing started and we gave it to you wholeheartedly and nobody has changed their mind .
i lost my wife and two little girls in the collapse if i had been in your shoes i would have given vella the whole god damned coast guard if i thought it would have saved just one of them .
the pisces is your ship i 'll care for her until your ready to take over .
dont beat yourself up over this , nowhere is it written that its a crime to be human .
had it not been for almost losing connie the defeat of vellas forces would have been the cause for celebration .
it had taken jeff 's forces two days to root out the diehard remnants of vella 's supporters from san felipe de morro .
pisces was now tied up to a wharf for the first time since leaving key west .
jeff and his forces were in control of the city , and with a supply of gasoline and diesel , were using the patrol boats and vehicles to take back roosevelt roads .
with vella gone decent people came forward to participate in the beginnings of a proper government .
i wrote out a long report to allan and sent it back with the supply ship captain .
i had visited three islands each was distinctive in how it had come through the collapse .
cuba dealing with its guilt yet poised to become prosperous , hispaniola crushed , broken and almost devoid of life and now puerto rico , which had it not been for the courage of a young woman , would have become the domain of a despot , with ambitions of empire .
what lay before us as we continued our journey i could n't begin to guess ?
as connie healed so did i though i carried a fair amount of guilt knowing i had endangered her life as always she remained the wind beneath my wings and urged me to get back to business .
finally , i walked on the bridge and told jim i felt ready to go back to work , he said , captain , consider the ship yours .
i said , thanks , jim you have the bridge and walked off .
our stay in puerto rico came to an end , connie and i stood on the bridge wing watching linda say goodbye to jeff , connie said , i feel sad for those two their so much in love and now theyre going to be separated .
i said , only for a little while linda told me she 's putting in for a transfer so she and jeff can go to work procreating their own little navy .
the lines were brought aboard and pisces once more headed out past castle morro and then turned her bow toward the virgins .
we took our time ambling along the coast allowing the scientists to do research as puerto rico had been fished heavily over the last couple of years .
chapter ten three hour tour we now had time to give the scientific side of the mission a chance to do its work , i had to admit they had been forced to suck hind tit while all the monkey business had played out in puerto rico .
with pisces replenished , we were ready to work our way down the chain .
while i had been occupied with political and social side of things , dr. brothers and joyce had hit upon the idea of compiling data on how the ratio of population density to arable land had affected each island .
we had no reliable census for haiti but estimated the population left on the entire island of hispaniola was less than two thousand .
our scientists had taken advantage of our extended stay in puerto rico and put together a rough census .
puerto rico had the largest population density of any island in the caribbean and had lost over two thirds of its population yet things like the availability of arable land to grow food and the quantity of small fishing boats figured highly into the equation .
puerto ricos fishing fleet through jeff 's efforts had operated effectively through much of the collapse saving countless lives , whereas the haitians had used almost any craft that would float in a vain attempt to escape leaving those on the island with little means with which to fish .
haitians had ravaged the island like a plague of locusts moving on through dominica devouring everything as they went until the island had nothing left to sustain human life .
the haitian couple had described to carol how things had spiraled down to the point where those still able had fought for the last scraps of food then turned to eating each other .
sadly cannibalism had so often been the rule rather than the exception during the collapse .
this was the legacy future generations would be left to ponder and debate .
as we moved down the chain an effort would be put forth to assess not only fish populations , but attempt to catalog and correlate how the unique conditions on each island had played its part in the human collapse .
dr. brothers research dovetailed nicely with my studies and the data would be of immense value to those who came after us .
besides it was interesting as each island was in its own way a unique little microcosm .
the weather was idyllic the trades blew steady as we hopped from island to island conducting our research .
our journey marred only by the horrific toll the collapse had taken on islands like antigua and barbuda , saint maarten which had been highly overpopulated and suffered the worst along with montserrat where the eruption years ago had denuded a large part of the island .
we encountered people just barely hanging on to life living in appalling conditions .
we had no means at our disposal to help these people and could do little but give words of comfort and assure them relief would arrive in the months to come .
the scientists hit on the idea of not only using pisces for research , but to take advantage of her abilities as a suburb fishing machine and we began offering the islanders the bounty we harvested , many had taken up the practice of salting and drying fish and they cheerfully accepted whatever we offered .
the gps system had come on line but was intermittent and unreliable so it still remained the rule to take sights at every opportunity .
spending so much time in puerto rico had cut into our schedule , it became a race to catch up , sometimes just touching islands such as guadeloupe , saint lucia then shooting through the grenadines .
our cruise had been uneventful since leaving puerto rico somewhat of an anti climax or maybe it was just that we had become so conditioned to adventure we took things like a barracuda attack or lab fire in stride .
we skirted the venezuelan coast checking out the small islands like isla la orchila , bonaire , and curacao and were on our way to aruba when the alarms went off sending dan scrambling into the engine room .
he reported the main diesel generator had blown a head gasket but when he tore into it discovered it had also cracked a piston and ruined the liner .
he had prepared for such an eventuality and had the parts on board .
dan said it would take him anywhere from three days to a week in order to effect repairs and we decided to limp into oranjestad .
aruba had not fared well , we found it deserted , the inhabitants having fled to the mainland .
most on board were still finding it hard to believe the collapse could have such far reaching consequences .
i knew it was directly connected to overpopulation and the infrastructure we had developed to sustain it .
once that infrastructure was damaged , people were forced to turn to what was available locally .
unfortunately , the situation had developed so rapidly there was no time to adjust even if the means existed to ramp up local food production .
populations consumed whatever was available then collapsed or moved .
with the ship laid up for a week , we found ourselves with time on our hands .
dennis had gone ashore and made a search but had found no threats .
connie and i decided to invite joyce and sam , take the launch and a picnic basket and do some exploring , the five of us counting skipper had n't had a chance to get together and be ourselves since we left astor .
we ventured down the coast just relaxing , enjoying the day , and letting our hair down , sam got around to spinning the tale of how he and herb had come by the truckload of meat .
as far as i was concerned the statute of limitations had run out and the evidence had for the most part been consumed .
it was good to be free from the burdens of command and among friends with whom we had shared so much .
late afternoon approached sam pulled in the anchor and we started on our way back to the ship .
we had just got underway when the engine developed a hard knock , it didnt take long to determine we had a rod bearing or wrist pin about to go .
i immediately shut the engine down , as dan would eat my ass if i ran it until it came unglued .
we were out of sight of the ship , but i wasnt worried as we had the vhf and i had checked it before we left .
i repeatedly called , but got no response , we checked the connections and everything was hooked up , but the radio would neither transmit nor receive .
on closer examination of the radio , sam found a tiny hole made by a piece of shrapnel from the same shell that had severed the fuel line .
by this time the shore was just a little too far to attempt a swim and the current was carrying us away from the island .
we had felt safe as long as we were in radio contact as the inflatable could come to our rescue .
what had been a pleasure cruise was starting to look more like the beginnings of a survival situation .
still i was sure jim would send the inflatable in search of us we only had to wait .
had i known what lay ahead i would have used what was left of the engine to get us to the coast , but i was sure it would only be a matter of a couple of hours before the inflatable had us in tow .
dusk turned into night we kept a lookout expecting any minute to see the inflatables running lights .
we had no flares on board as they had become useless , only one weak flashlight and the plugin search light which we could use only sparingly in order to conserve the battery , which like all things was over three years old .
we made a check of the stores on board the launch was the principal lifeboat for the ship and therefore provisioned accordingly .
we always carried an extra ten gallons of fuel along with five gallons of water and i calculated together with the water and food already stowed aboard it would keep us going for at least a couple of weeks with rationing .
the gps chart plotter was functioning for a change and i worked out a rough estimate of our course .
we were currently on a heading of roughly 210 degrees and if conditions persisted it would bring us close to the venezuelan coast some thirty miles away .
our present rate of drift was such that we would close the coast sometime tomorrow afternoon .
gerald was sure to find us with the helicopter in the morning until then we would have to sit it out .
i looked over at connie and was thankful she had fully recovered from her wound .
dawn broke , but it was mid morning before we saw the helicopter way off in the distance , too far away to signal .
gerald had been our last chance and as the chopper vanished so did any hope of quickly being found .
we realized it would likely be three or four days before the ship could begin searching , by then we would be somewhere along the south american coast .
i was sobered by the knowledge we were now four souls and a dog in an open boat drifting in the southern caribbean .
sam and i took stock of the situation we werent in any immediate danger as we had ample food and water , the gps plot showed the combination of wind and current was carrying us toward the gulf of venezuela .
i would turn on the gps at four hour intervals set a waypoint then plot our progress .
i told everyone we might not make it to civilization , but it looked like we werent going to die at sea either .
i said , we should be ashore tonight if everything stays as it is .
i had no idea what the options ashore would be .
we were fairly well armed there was an m16 in the boat , both sam and i had brought pistols , and connie never traveled without the little 22 tucked away somewhere .
we had set up the bimini top as a sun shade and also to use as a makeshift sail since the wind direction was more favorable than the current , we passed the time debating what we were going to do once we got on shore and how long it would be before pisces would come looking for us .
the launch was equipped with an epirb or emergency locator beacon , but it would do us no good as there was no longer anyone listening for the signals .
before the collapse , i could have activated it and within an hour or two there would have been search aircraft and vessels on the way .
the gps indicated our course would take us past paraguana peninsula and the gulf of venezuela where we might be able to make a landing .
sam spent his time fishing and caught a couple of bonito which had sought the shelter of the boat , we had no way to cook them so sam had tossed them back i was becoming worried we would n't be able to make land and the current might keep us offshore or in the middle of the gulf or we could drift all the way to maracaibo where pisces would n't be able to find us .
the afternoon came to an end we began to make out land calculations put us drifting down the bay toward amury , which was just above the large venezuelan oil port of carirubana .
we were off the coast a couple of miles and i decided to take a chance on the diesel and run in closer to shore and try to make it to the bay .
i said , sam its past time for babying this damn engine we got to get ashore pretty soon , i 'm going to fire it up and try to make it into amury .
i cranked up the diesel and headed into shore skirting the coast staying close enough so sam and i could swim the launch ashore .
the diesel kept hammering and i felt confident we were going to make it but just as we drew abreast of a large maintenance dock there was a loud clang and bang followed by a cloud of smoke and the engine turned it final revolution .
we all jumped in and swam the launch to shore , skipper was first to reach the beach and was running back and forth barking encouragement , we beached the boat on the southside of the dock .
once the boat was safely tied up sam and i , began to reconnoiter , we walked to the dock and maintenance facility but found it deserted and desolate except for a large tanker alongside the dock .
skipper made the most of being on dry land by running ahead checking out everything and hiking his is leg at every opportunity .
we checked the complex but found no sign of human activity .
this was one of the bleakest spots in northern south america .
yet it had also been venezuela 's largest oil port and refinery , we had drifted passed abandoned rigs and it had n't escaped me that this was where vella had counted on obtaining his fuel supplies .
we discussed what to do next , i told sam , it 's only a matter of time before the launch is discovered , there 's a fifty fifty chance people here will be friendly still i think it might be a good idea to find out on our own terms .
i said , i figure its a little over three miles to the bay entrance .
what say you and i make a trek tonight and look around then we 'll have some idea of whats going on ?
if the folks look friendly fine no problem , maybe we can find something to use our diesel in and make it back to the ship .
if not , then we can try to scrounge enough stuff around here to rig a mast and sail and put back to sea .
you ladies stay here along with skipper and try to get some shuteye if all goes well well be back before sunrise .
sam and i set out walking along the rugged shore it was hard going and took over two hours to reached the outskirts of amury , it seemed abandoned , we worked our way east wandering empty streets until we caught sight of the bay .
looking down the beach we spotted a large bonfire and out in the bay could just make out a forest of masts and ships of every description .
they were too far to make out much detail , but enough i could tell there was a sprinkling of warships among them .
i said , jesus sam there must be half the frigging sailboats and ships in the caribbean sitting out there .
he asked , what do you reckon is going on .
i said , has to be the southern half of vella 's navy ?
sam said , gw , be awful nice if they 'd let us borrow one of those sailboats , wan na sneak in for a closer look .
we carefully kept to the shadows of vacant houses as we made our way through town until we reached the narrowest part of the point .
there was a roaring fire going on the beach with a group of men around it .
i looked through the glasses and was horrified as there were what appeared to be human body parts grilling on a barbecue made out of a cut up 55 gallon drum .
i did n't say anything , just handed sam the glasses .
he panned around and the glasses stopped in the direction of the grill .
he whispered , their cooking somebodys frigging legs ass cheeks and all , gw do n't think we wan na go waltzing in there and say howdy , do you ?
we waited watching the hideous spectacle more than once thanking our lucky stars the diesel had crapped out when it did or we would have clunked our way into maybe becoming the next menu item .
the mass of sailboats sitting out in the bay was just too tempting to pass up if we could liberate one it would allow us to escape and sail back to pisces .
sam and i agreed it was worth the risk to check them out .
it was around one thirty before the anchorage became quiet .
we had picked out a dory that was pulled up on shore close by and when what little moon there was disappeared behind the clouds we crept down and launched it .
we paddled out to the fleet then carefully picked our way through the hundred or more sailboats large and small tightly rafted together in one big mass .
we moved along the outside of the pack expecting any minute to be spotted , but it appeared there wasnt anyone guarding the fleet though it was certain from the neatness that they received some attention .
we continued until a center cockpit ketch caught my eye , i whispered to sam , i think this one is a forty two whitby looks to be in good shape and its right where we can get it out .
there was just enough room to maneuver the dory in between the ketch and the sloop beside it .
sam grabbed a line and swung aboard and i followed .
looking around the deck it was tidy and all the rigging appeared to be in working order but there were no sails .
we made our way down into the cabin and found nine or ten sail bags piled in the salon , using the weak flashlight i examined the contents all but one old jib appeared to be in excellent condition .
i made my way to the engine compartment and was delighted to find a late model yanmar diesel .
i said excitedly , this is our ticket out of this frigging place all we need is some fuel and a battery .
we spent another hour going over the boat until we were both satisfied it would fit the bill then took the dory and paddled ashore being careful to leave it just as we had found it even brushing away our tracks .
on our way back to the launch we hatched out a plan , it was evident from what we had witnessed that we could n't risk hanging around in hopes pisces might find us .
we agreed to return tomorrow night with the battery and diesel from the launch , sneak aboard get the ketch running and haul ass .
it sounded simple in theory , but things rarely go as planned , besides lugging a heavy battery and ten gallons of diesel for almost three miles along the rugged coast would be a daunting task .
we had come across a dilapidated dory by the maintenance dock and decided we could use it to ferry the stuff to the point then we could carry the fuel and battery the short distance to the other dory we had used in our exploration of the anchorage .
after making our escape , we would swing by pick up the girls , take the launch in tow , and later transfer whatever we could use like diesel and water then cut it adrift .
we got back around five and went to work camouflaging the launch using whatever vegetation and drift we could find .
throughout the day , we saw an occasional sail yet none ventured close enough to become a threat .
we were miserable and hot all , we could do , was make the best of the situation and try to rest or sleep .
evening approached we patched the ragged dory as best we could then loaded in the fuel and battery .
with all of us pushing , we managed to get the launch anchored in water deep enough so , we would be able to pull along side of it with the ketch .
connie and joyce wanted to go , but we said it was too risky , if something were to go wrong we would be caught for sure .
we told them to stay in the launch and be ready when we got back .
i took connie aside as it was only fair to let her know what she and joyce could be up against in the event we failed to return .
i said , god 's knows i did n't want to tell you this , but they were barbecuing some poor bugger last night just so you know in the unlikely event we do n't make it .
i wish i could lay out some kind of decent option for you and joyce but frankly there arent any .
honey if we arent back by daylight pack up as much food and water as you can carry and start walking north .
the road runs along the coast there 's a couple of towns you 'll have to bypass .
travel at night its cooler try to get as far north as possible , theres a good chance pisces will find you .
remember do n't wait , take off if we can we 'll catch up with you .
she said , sometimes i feel were living out that old chinese curse you know the one that goes , may you always live in interesting times .
gw i do n't want to sound like a wuss but i really think it 's time we went home .
i said , sweetie you 'll get no argument out of me youve got no idea how many times i came close to telling you the same thing .
sam and i fully intend working toward making it happen .
i took connie in my arms and said , no mans ever been granted a more perfect partner in life .
constance collins i love you , i never dreamed when we made that pact on the st. johns id be in venezuela about to steal a sailboat in order to fulfill it .
we held and kissed , clinging to each other in the desperate way of lovers faced with mortal danger .
she sobbed , gw i know you always keep your promises , promise me you 'll come back .
i said , flesh and blood girl you have my solemn promise .
i thought to myself of all the promises i had ever made this was the one i most dearly wished to keep .
sam and i slipped over the side into the dory and paddled along the shore , thankfully it was a quiet night with tiny wavelets and enough moon so we had no difficultly navigating the barren coast .
it took us over two hours and a lot of bailing to reach our destination .
we made our way across to the vantage point we had occupied the night before .
the dory , we had planned to use , was gone , moved down the shore to where the big fire was once again burning we could see a dozen or so men sitting around it apparently drinking .
it would leave us with no choice other then to lug the heavy dory across the point .
we settled down and waited for the partygoers to pass out and mused on who they were having for dinner tonight .
sam had the glasses and from time , to time would make a sweep .
he said in a low , excited voice , gw quick .
for a second , i felt we had been discovered but when i looked toward the fire saw a great deal of commotion .
sam had the glasses and was giving a play by play of the goings on .
he said , one son of a bitch got up and fell right into the frigging fire his buddies went to pull him out but then another bunch got up wailed into them pushing the poor bastard back in , he 's looking pretty crispy right now and everybody is still going at it .
finally , the fighting subsided instead of pulling the body of their comrade out they piled on more wood leaving sam and i puzzled and speculating on what had transpired .
it was one of the most bizarre sights i had ever witnessed , and provided added incentive for us to affect our escape .
it was again after one oclock before the fire died down enough that we felt safe lugging and launching the heavy dory it took us three trips to get everything carried across and loaded .
we shoved off and made our way to the ketch .
sam went aboard , and i passed the fuel and battery up to him .
i then went to work and changed out the battery , unhooked the fuel line from the electric pump and attached a length of rubber hose and stuck the end into one of the five gallon jugs of diesel .
someone had gone to the trouble of fitting the engine with an auxiliary panel , and it now came in handy .
i crossed my fingers and turned the switch the electric fuel pump began to hum and click .
when it quit i said , here goes nothing .
i pushed the starter button the engine turned over and hit , but failed to start i pushed the button again , this time the starter grunted then just clicked .
i played with the battery connections with no results .
i said , shit the batterys dead were screwed .
sam had his head over my shoulder looking in .
he said , is that the crank hanging on the wall ?
i said , yeah .
sam said , get out of the way .
already shoving passed me he grabbed the crank and fitted it on the shaft .
i said , wait there 's a compression release .
i flipped it and sam turned the crank like a wild man , the diesel coughed hit on one cylinder then another and came to life .
he grinned and said , what say we get the fuck out of here .
it was a statement i had to admit reflected my sentiments exactly .
we scrambled topside i took the wheel while sam cut lines .
he said , wait a minute i got an idea .
he grabbed the other jug of diesel jumped onto the next boat slid back the hatch and sloshed a gallon or so down the companionway then pulled a piece of paper from his pocket lit it and tossed it in .
he said , thatll give them something to worry about besides us .
he cut the last line i rammed the gearshift in forward and opened the throttle .
our endeavors had n't gone unnoticed , on shore , someone had raised the alarm and men began spilling out along the waterfront some manned dories and had began paddling toward us .
the whitby picked up speed as we made for the harbor entrance , the first dorys crew was paddling furiously in the effort to overtake us one guy brandishing a pistol began firing wildly .
sam grabbed the m16 and sprayed the dory killing the one with the pistol and causing its other occupants to vote unanimously in favor of immediate retreat .
i could tell by the dense black smoke the fire had gained a foothold and fiberglass was beginning to burn .
the boats were packed together like sardines and with any luck it would keep the whole crew busy battling the fire .
i said , sam better take the other five down , make sure the hose stays in and the jug does n't tip over .
while youre at it turn on the battery switches see if we can get a charge going on the house bank as well .
i headed straight out into the bay hoping they would think we were making for open water .
when i felt we had ventured far enough offshore so our movements could no longer be discerned , i turned and headed to the launch .
it took us less than an hour to get back to connie and joyce .
even in the dark the white launch made a conspicuous sight , i could hear skipper barking as i swung alongside .
the boats had barely touched before the dog and girls scrambled aboard , connie flung her arms around my neck and began crying oh gw thank god your safe .
i said , come on honey lighten up , you know i always keep my promises .
after a quick reunion sam pulled the anchor and placed the launch in tow , i turned the whitby seaward and we said goodbye to venezuela .
connie took the wheel while sam and i broke out the sails .
it took a couple of hours of fumbling in the dark before we managed to get them bent on and trimmed .
we could now take full advantage of the light breeze and i took the helm .
looking over my right shoulder the night sky was lit by an orange glow , there was a violent explosion , evidence the fire had spread to the ships .
we waited until morning before we brought the launch alongside , then jury rigged an extension cord to the launches fuel pump , and transferred the diesel into the starboard tank on the whitby , when we had finished the gauge showed it was three quarters full .
we stripped the launch bare of anything useable then set it adrift .
i found and mounted the gps chart plotter and it showed we were making around five knots , which i considered good as the bottom was foul with weed and barnacles .
we had made our escape all in all it had gone like clockwork and after being marooned on the barren coast the deck of the little blue water cruiser felt good under our feet .
all that remained was to determine where we were going to go as sailing back to aruba would be difficult and we would have to beat to windward and fight the current .
it would force us to keep tacking or use power all the way , besides we could n't be absolutely sure pisces would still be there .
i figured we had pissed off a goodly number of people and aruba would be one of the first places theyd start looking .
i was sure they were likely better sailors then we were and i wanted to avoid a running battle if at all possible .
our best bet was to get the hell out of dodge by the quickest route and stick with the prevailing wind and current heading north along the central american coast .
i thought it over all morning and by noon felt belize would be the most logical destination , they spoke english , and i had worked off and on for over two decades in the tiny country and knew it well .
i way praying some of my contacts had come through the collapse .
before making the journey across the caribbean , we needed to top off our water tanks .
i was leery of making a stop on the coast and after studying the chart plotter set course for the small archipelago of san andres which belonged to columbia and was situated roughly a hundred and fifty miles off the coast of nicaragua .
i was hoping there would be a vat or cistern on one of the smaller islands we could draw from .
it was a trip of four hundred miles , we were averaging five knots i figured it would require a passage of four days .
we had food and water enough for well over a week if we used it only for drinking .
sam caught enough fish for a good meal we splurged firing up the generator to run the electric stove .
connie and joyce did their best baking them but without seasoning they made a bland meal , still nobody complained .
we played around with the ketch until we had a fair idea of how she handled under different points of sail .
the weather was favorable with only an occasional squall , sam and i went over the mechanics of the boat while joyce and connie cleaned and aired out the interior .
we fell into an easy rhythm spending much time lounging in the cockpit under the bimini and with the exception of our limited food and water it became an enjoyable cruise .
the morning of the fourth day we approached one of the smaller cays i had picked out hoping it was uninhabited .
we sailed around it sam and i scanned for signs of life with the glasses but there was no movement and it looked abandoned only a couple of small runabouts half buried on the beach .
i was surprised to see a row of large houses half hidden among the coconut trees .
we spied a substantial concrete pier jutting out over a hundred feet and after some discussion we fired up the diesel made our way in , pulled alongside , and tied up .
with sam and i leading the way , we cautiously walked ashore weapons at the ready .
it soon became evident this had been a private vacation island of the rich and infamous , most likely some drug cartel .
there were a dozen large houses in varying states of disrepair we made a preliminary search but found no one alive or dead , apparently the island had been abandoned at the beginning of the collapse .
we came across several cisterns and vats , only two or three of which could be considered useable as drinking water .
as we continued our explorations came on a couple of large utility buildings sam broke the lock on the first one and we entered to find two large caterpillar generators of two hundred kw along with a gigantic fuel tank which looked to be better than five thousand gallons .
sam went over and read the sight glass .
he shouted , gw this son of a bitch is three quarters full .
suddenly all our focus switched to the generator if it would start maybe , we could find some way to pump water and fuel to the boat .
there were two large start batteries , but sam and i together couldnt pack them all the way to the boat so a search began for some way to charge them .
we found enough heavy duty extension cords to reach from the generator 's batteries to the boat .
we plugged in a portable charger and used the boats generator .
the rest went on exploring while i hung around checking over the generator .
toward evening i checked the battery 's voltage it was up and i hollered for everyone , they arrived and watched as i pushed the starter button the generator kicked over like it had been used yesterday and the lights in the building begin to glow then burned brightly .
we walked outside to discover the island lit up from one end to the other .
i ran back to the ketch turned off the generator dug out the shore power cords and plugged them into the dock receptacles , checked the polarity and voltage at the panel .
i turned on the air conditioners and checked to see if they were pumping water , when i was satisfied everything was working , went to find the others .
they had made themselves at home in one of the best preserved houses , the air conditioning already cooling it down .
connie said , gw you wo n't believe this , but theres a pantry stuffed full of can goods .
i asked , is there any coffee ?
she said , yes dear , plenty i 'm getting ready to make a pot .
we sat in the spacious living room enjoying the cool of the air conditioning discussing our good fortune .
sam had found a bottle of crown and was diligently attempting to get the best of it while the girls explored the house waiting impatiently for the water to heat enough for hot showers .
the house was a treasure trove of neat stuff from soaps and food to clothes evidently the previous owner had good taste and both joyce and connie were soon showered and outfitted .
i said , guys better enjoy it while you can , tomorrow we 'll start stocking the boat .
we sat around enjoying the amenities of a past world which had for over a year been denied us .
connie and i said good night and went back to break in the ketch as joyce and sam elected to stay in the house .
we sat in the cockpit .
i said , it 's been one hell of a ride honey like a roller coaster , youre right , at times it has seemed like we 've living that old chinese curse but , hopefully , from here on out itll be smooth sailing all the way home .
with such a perfect night , everything , wed been through seemed like a distant dream .
i said , honey , i came up with a new name for the boat i think you 'll like it but do n't ask it 's a surprise .
we were awakened around three by sam gw get up there 's a fire .
i hurried on deck a house at the far end of the island was burning , we all ran down and watched the fire consume the structure .
it was a shame for it was one of the larger homes on the island and we hadnt yet explored it .
there was no telling what useful stuff it might have contained .
one indication was a large single side band antenna , the radio would have allowed us to contact pisces , mayport , or even jeff , but , as they say , win some lose some .
i surmised the fire had stared from a faulty electrical circuit or maybe an appliance which had been left on .
we hung around watching until we were satisfied the fire was n't going to spread then went back to bed .
next morning we were getting ready to hunt down every garden hose on the island with the intention of hooking them together and filling the water tanks on the ketch , then using them to transfer diesel .
sam was walking the dock he said , gw i think there 's water already here .
i took a look and sure enough there was a hose bib , sam turned it on and water came gushing out .
great but we still had to know if it was from one of the good cisterns so sam went to investigate .
while waiting i , spied another larger pipe running along the dock , it ended with a valve alongside of which was an empty hose reel this drew my interest and i hurried to the generator building .
my hunch was right , there beside the tank was a transfer pump with a reversible motor , and hanging on the wall above it was a twenty five foot piece of fuel hose with a nozzle attached .
i hollered for sam , who was by this time back on the dock .
he walked in and said , the dock waters from that good cistern next the little caretaker house .
i said pointing .
look what ive found , i bet it runs all the way out to the end of the dock .
we carried the hose and hooked it up .
i went back started the pump and sam shouted , we got diesel .
sam and i filled the boat while joyce and connie were busy making the rounds systematically looting every house of things we needed .
they had discovered a john deer diesel gator and made sam and i drop everything until we got it running for them , they were like a couple of kids zipping from one house to the next and carting booty back to the boat .
connie and joyce had been busy all day packing away food and the other stuff they had scavenged .
connie said , we threw out a good bit of stuff some of the cans were rusted through or bulging .
i said , make sure cause all , it takes , is one can of botulin to do us all in .
we began to refer to it as fantasy island , as every house was of totally differing architecture ranging from an alpine chalet to american colonial and even ultra modern , when viewed by themselves each was a work of art , but taken together seemed incongruous and garish .
connie and joyce found a working washer and dryer and had been busy doing up everything in the boat .
sam and i roamed the island and even stumbled across a couple of full propane tanks for the grill .
next to the generator building were two other buildings , one we were calling the toy room as itt was crammed with everything from parasail to scuba equipment and would have been the envy of many sporting goods stores .
the other was a virtual fortress made of reinforced concrete with a door suited more for a vault then a building .
we speculated on its contents , and if it was full of cocaine or the proceeds from drug sales .
as they say , enquiring minds want to know .
i told sam .
curiosity killed the cat maybe we should leave it alone .
he said , yeah but they also say satisfaction brought it back .
theres got to be a key somewhere on the island .
we searched for the key off and on for two days it was joyce who found it in the caretaker 's kitchen drawer .
everyone grouped around and held their breath as i turned the lock and pulled the heavy door open .
i flipped on the light and in front of us was something far more valuable than drugs or money , food .
from the floor to ceiling the bunker was stuffed with canned food , dry food , and bottles of this and that along with enough booze to turn us all into alcoholics .
to people who hadnt seen full supermarket shelves in years it bordered on the obscene .
i couldnt help myself and blurted out , who in the hell were these fucking people , theres more food in here than we had on pisces .
the girls explored the vault excitedly chattering away , sam and i left them to their near state of ecstasy and went hunting for equipment so we could begin cleaning the bottom of the ketch .
equipped with masks and snorkels we all spent a couple of days removing barnacles and weed from the bottom , they were thick and we only managed to scrape off two thirds of them , still it would make a noticeable improvement .
as i had told connie , i decided to rename the ketch , at present it was neptunes pride .
the island boasted a wood working shop that had obviously been used in the construction of the houses and like everything else it was fabulous .
i found a dual action air sander and removed the name on the transom board then put on fresh coats of varnish .
next day joyce , who was the most accomplished among us , was hung over the transom in the bosun 's chair and neatly lettered homeward bound .
connie christened it with a bottle of champagne and we celebrated with two more .
besides the vault several of the houses had extensive supplies of liquor , i caught sam bringing a case of crown royal on board .
i said , one bottle only take the rest back .
joyce gave sam a dirty look and he handed her a bottle and marched off the boat with the rest .
joyce said , i had him almost weaned , but this island is awash with booze .
i said , pick me up a bottle of makers mark if you see one ?
she said , do n't tell me you 're starting too .
i said , no it 's strictly medicinal in my case .
she said , i 'll ask connie to get you one .
i said , do n't trust your captain either ?
she said , your all little boys underneath when it comes to putting temptation in your path .
i said , before you go casting stones , did n't i see you and connie lugging crates of wine aboard .
she answered , thats strictly for medicinal purposes too .
i 'll level with you .
when i was young i dated this guy who 's parents had a large vineyard and i had this wild idea of becoming a california wine baroness , even studied wine making for a couple of years .
i learned enough to know some of the vintages on this island were going for better than three hundred bucks a bottle before the collapse .
theyll make great trading material good booze is better than gold in times of crisis .
if i did n't think , sam would fall off the wagon completely i would have brought some of the best whiskey and rare scotch on board .
whoever owned this island knew what the term top shelf meant .
i said , that 's what i like about girls youre such crafty devils .
your right sam has mellowed out considerably from the old days and i 'd hate to see him backslide .
still it 's not a bad idea , ill try to keep sam out of the way , there 's a nifty hiding place under the aft bunk , just make sure you pack everything in carefully and keep clear of the steering quadrant and auto pilot .
it had taken almost half the day to install the launches large garmin chart plotter at the navigation station , it was much better than the little one on the pedestal and because it was noaa government issue was loaded with every electronic chart in creation .
i was relieved to find the boats depth transducer was compatible and would feed both units .
i prayed the gps system would stay online because even though there was a plastic sextant on board i had no sight reduction tables , almanac or accurate chronometer , the gps time was accurate when it worked but when it did there was no need to take sights .
i regretted that the only ssb on the island had gone up in flames , the whitby had been equipped with one but it had been removed and only the insulated backstay antenna remained .
we had spent a week stocking the boat and relaxing the island definitely had a certain charm about it and provided us with many of the creature comforts we hadnt enjoyed in years .
we would have liked to have stayed longer but felt we had to move on , i needed to find someway to contact the world and let them know we were still among the living .
joyce and connie took pains to tidy up the house , sam and i roamed around the island making sure things were turned off , and secure .
we hid the key to the vault along with the tips to the acetylene cutting torch as they were the only two ways to gain entry .
finally , we shut down the generator , which had in large part contributed to making this truly our little , fantasy island .
we were ready to leave but just as sam was about to cast off connie and joyce stopped him and made us go ashore and put the gator away in the generator building .
connie said , i ca n't believe you were going to leave little deer all alone on the dock .
i guess we were lucky , as had they grown any more attached to the little machine they would have made us load little deer on board and take it with us .
we watched our fantasy island grow smaller until it vanished from sight , just a small cloud marking its location .
next stop belize city , of all the places we had visited i was anxious to see how belize had fared , it had a small population still i had no doubt the collapse had affected them adversely as well .
chapter eleven homeward bound i was pleased with homeward bound , finding her and the island had been strokes of good fortune , i hoped it was an omen , and signaled our luck had changed .
the boat had been well taken care of , almost every system on board had been replaced or upgraded .
not just cobbled together but well thought out so everything looked and performed better than the original , and i had no doubt three years ago she would have surveyed bristol .
it had never ceased to amaze me how possessions had outlasted the people who owned them .
the ketch had been federally documented , but i was sure the owners , who once called her home , were no longer alive .
i had worked out the watch schedule , it allowed each couple to spend time together and we could all share breakfast and supper .
sam as usual fished and on the second day caught a good sized swordfish , now that we had the trimmings it made an excellent meal and joyce broke out one of her pricey bottles of wine to accompany it .
with the current and wind both working in our favor calculations put us in belize after a leisurely four or five days of cruising .
i was n't pushing , and shortened sail at night as i did n't want people half asleep , stumbling around on deck trying to reef in the pitch dark during the middle of a squall , besides we werent in a race .
i was sure that by now dan had finished repairs and pisces with jim in command after a fruitless search had continued her research minus her captain , the crane operator , two scientists , and mascot .
she was by now most likely in grand cayman or headed to key west .
i just could n't get over our luck finding fantasy island .
it had provided us with everything we needed to make the trip enjoyable and enjoying it we were .
the ketch sailed well , the majority of the time the wind held steady on the starboard quarter allowing the autopilot to perform most of the work , but only after we had sent connie up the mast in the bosuns chair to free up the wind vane .
we spent a lot of time lounging in the cockpit under the bimini discussing life in general .
sam asked me how come i started out in the navy and wound up doing archeology .
i was just a poor farm boy starting college when i found out the navy would pay for my education , they were heavy into engineering which was the field i wanted to major in , besides i liked the uniform and it was a great chick magnet .
on a whim , i happened to take an elective course in geology , at the time plate tectonics was the hot button issue , you know continental drift .
i soon came to realize it all made sense and provided a logical explanation of how the earth and life evolved .
studying the progression of the fossil record seemed so natural yet i found my geology instructor constantly having to defend his position against religious students whose only interest was harping about the man versus monkey thing .
hell it did n't bother me in the least if my ancestors were monkeys just as long as i did n't have to go swinging in the trees or marry one .
i just looked at it as a natural progression like from a model t to a brand new corvette .
the more they argued , the more determined i became to find the truth .
i began taking courses in geology , paleontology and finally i settled on archeology as it would allow me to develop a perspective on how man had reached some of the ridicules positions he held on religion .
i wanted to work in the middle east , but soon discovered almost everyone , who concentrated on studying the middle east , seemed bent only on digging up pharaohs or finding some scrap of supporting evidence for the bible .
i became interested in mesoamerica especially the mayan civilization .
it differed vastly form old world beliefs yet had risen to be a powerful influence before suddenly collapsing leaving nothing but unanswered questions .
when i got out of the navy , i went back to school for my masters and doctorate and began doing research primarily in belize along with some in guatemala and mexico .
i ca n't say it answered my questions , but i believe im still on the right path .
we discussed belize i told them it 's a much different place than what my buddy described to me when he lived there in the fifties , but still it had a beauty and diversity few places on earth could equal .
i wished we had some gas for the dingy as there were a lot of places we couldnt go with our almost six foot draft .
we arrived off turniff reef in the evening of the fifth day although the gps was working , i decided to lay off and overnight outside so we could go in with the sun high enough to allow the spotting of any uncharted reef or coral heads .
the next morning under a bright sun with sam in the spreaders we made our way under power once in a while passing small fishing boats with their tattered sails until the city came into sight looking as tropically depressed as ever yet possessing a rustic charm .
we anchored a quarter mile off the entrance to haul over creek .
i told sam and joyce to stay alert and cautioned them not to allow anyone on board .
i said , sam i do n't think were in any real danger but just in case be ready to haul ass if we do n't make it back , we 've been over it , you know the drill .
connie and i took the dingy , rigged the sail , and headed into the custom 's wharf .
i had wanted to bring sam and leave the girls on the ketch but thought better of it as if something happened to us the girls would be left alone to fend for themselves , this way sam and joyce would remain together and have a better chance to escape .
once again , i was placing my flesh and blood girls life at risk .
a crowd began to gather as we approached the wharf , i was wearing what was left of my coast guard coveralls and was relieved somewhat to see a couple of uniformed guys waiting when we reached the dock .
they took the painter and tied the dingy off to a bollard then helped connie onto the wharf we shook hands with a guy who seemed to be in charge and i introduced us .
captain george collins united stated coast guard and this is my wife , constance .
we have been lost at sea and need the use of shortwave radio to contact our ship .
they looked at connie and i deciding whether to believe us or not .
then one said , jus where your ship ?
i said , it 's a long story is there somewhere we can go and talk .
we walked to the customs house i was glad they had assigned someone to guard the dingy .
i explained briefly of pisces mission and of our becoming marooned and deciding to sail here as i had worked and lived in belize before the collapse .
they were friendly , but i could tell i wasnt making much headway , that is until i started dropping names when i hit on claude flowers it was like the whole backboard on the pinball machine lit up .
claude had been a government minister in charge of heritage and had worked closely with me over the years , we had become friends and i had stayed with his family on many occasions .
it came as a relief to find he was still kicking and was now higher up in the government .
i wrote him a note and while we waited , i kept the officers entertained with tales of our adventures .
claude walked in saw me grinned came over , shook hands , and said , doctor collins its about time you came back to dig in the jungle .
i said , not exactly here to dig this time , let me introduce my wife , connie .
there 's been a lot of water flowed under the old swing bridge since i left town .
i 'm a captain in the us coast guard at present .
as i was telling these guys its a long story .
claude , we got separated from my ship almost a month ago in aruba , is there any way i can contact them by short wave ?
he grinned and said , that 's not going to be a problem , there is a radio set at old government house we have been using to keep in touch with the outside world you hava walk or ride over on bicycle , let me see if i can fetch some and we can all go together .
the three of us rode down fort street and over the swing bridge then down regent to the old british governors mansion .
all traffic was either by foot , mule cart or bicycle even without cars and trucks the streets seemed to bustle with activity .
we arrived at the old governors house and put or bikes in the rack .
i said , belize looks like it came through all right .
claude said , we did better than most i believe .
we did lose lots of pipple because of no medicine but not dat many starved .
we entered government house and i gave the radio operator the frequency he managed to make contact with key west i got on and gave them the particulars of our situation and asked that they pass it along to mayport .
there would be a reply tomorrow .
i wished i could be there to see allan when he got the news .
i sat down with claude and related the story of our adventures at length and ended saying we had no papers so i gambled that belize would be the only place where anyone might remember me and so here we are .
claude said , who you know be more important din any piece of paper nowadays .
i felt better knowing i had made the right decision still we received paperwork allowing us free reign within the country .
we shopped at the market for fresh produce then went on to a bakery for of all things sweet brown bread .
we came alongside homeward bound with a dingy full of food .
belize had never stopped using its currency so claude had lent us fifty bucks in exchange for a promise of some of our booze .
that evening we dined in the cockpit on fresh bush chicken iguana and candied plantains two of my favorites i had learned to enjoy while living in the jungle .
we celebrated by opening another bottle of expensive pinot chardonnay .
the next day claude sent a policeman to watch the boat and we all came ashore with two bottles of jack daniels for claude i was told to be at government house by two in the afternoon .
the only thing , i could tell different about belize city , was that it was smaller no more than thirty thousand about the same population as when my buddy had lived here in the fifties .
i arrived at government house fifteen minutes early and at two sharp there was a call from the radio operator .
he said , a bright mon he wants to talk to you .
he moved over and said , go ahead .
and handed the mike to me , allan , george collins here .
i 'll be damned george it really is you , got more damned lives than a cat what the hell you doing in belize anyway , is everyone all right ?
yes sir , were all ok .
rumor has it someone torched the venezuelan navy you did n't have anything to do with that did you ?
no i ca n't take credit sam did it all on his own .
just wanted to tell you pisces is on the way be there tomorrow , could n't stop them once they found out where you were .
jim disobeyed orders george you ruined a good officer when you taught jimmy how to think for himself .
still i 'm tickled everyones all right , send me a full report when you get aboard pisces , over and out .
as usual allan had the last word .
i told the group pisces was on the way and would be here tomorrow .
i said sam , you 'll go down in history as the man who single handedly destroyed the entire venezuelan navy .
he said , hope thats a good thing ?
i said , i think so remember they were eating each other and besides who wants to drink with a bunch that wo n't even put out a buddy 's ass when it 's on fire .
sam said , got a good point , i still cant believe they did that .
we were in a jovial mood the rest of the day .
we sat in the cockpit till almost midnight before sleep overcame the excitement .
i was up at five manning the vhf , it was just after six when i made contact with pisces she was still outside the reef .
i told herb to wait until the sun was up and station lookouts on top of the bridge to check for coral heads i said , jim i know they ran cruise ships in here , but i swear these damn coral heads got legs .
it was almost noon when pisces crept in and dropped anchor she made a welcome sight .
we climbed in the dingy and rowed over to the gangway .
i came aboard saluted the flag then jim and herb there were handshakes and hugs , everyone on board gathered around and the greeting went on for almost a half hour before i could take herb and jim aside leaving connie , joyce and sam still surrounded .
we went and got some coffee then i gave them the unabridged account of all that had transpired from the minute the rod started knocking .
when i finished it was jim 's turn and he filled me in on what they had done .
when it was decided we were overdue the inflatable was launched it was dark and once outside the hand held search light malfunctioned so they had no way to alert us , we had been waiting to see a light and that was why we never saw one .
we , on the other hand , had been conserving our battery waiting for a light so we could respond .
the next day they launched the chopper , gerald spent the morning searching but the little machine developed mechanical problems when he attempted to get air born in the afternoon it was three days before a part could be manufactured .
dan worked around the clock in order to get the ship up and running but as they pulled out of the harbor another cylinder went and the ship was once again deadlined this time dan had to do a complete tear down which took a whole week .
gerald kept searching but found nothing , a little over a week after we went missing word arrived by sailboat that there had been an attack on the venezuelan navy and the attackers had made good their escape in a sailboat under power , since there was no fuel available locally it was suspected that they had brought it with them .
jim said , when i heard that report it raised our hopes for it had gw collins written all over it , but when you did n't come sailing in i began to have my doubts .
we finished repairs skirted the venezuelan coast for a couple of days but did n't see any sign of the launch so we had to give up and proceeded to grand cayman where we hung around doing research for a bit , but to be honest no one had much desire left .
we were cruising the yucatan straits almost abreast of cozumel when the radio operator overheard your message and damn near knocked me down rushing to tell me .
i contacted key west and asked for confirmation then ordered a course change .
bright was n't completely happy with my decision , but i was n't about to take no for an answer .
he said , captain i 'm ready to turn command of pisces back to you .
i said , not so fast jim we 've been passing command of this damn thing back and forth like a hot potato .
not this time , pisces is your ship it 's always been your ship especially since the day you took her in harms way in san juan .
i would ask you to humor an old man by allowing me to issue one last order .
since we 're here , we might as well take advantage of it and spend a few more days conducting research before heading home after all this is the second longest barrier reef in the world .
i 'll request an official command change from allan , i 'm sure hell concur .
i had a dilemma to iron out as i was technically the master of two vessels and was going to have to give one up .
i was hoping allan would concede and let jim take over pisces for i could n't bring myself to abandon homeward bound .
the mission was essentially at the end and i felt like a fifth wheel .
pisces was by all accounts jim 's command and even though allan bitched i knew he was proud that jimmy had learned to think outside of the box .
i contacted allan with some trepidation instead he embraced it with enthusiasm which instead of bringing relief worried me even more for it could only mean he had something up his sleeve .
next day the other shoe dropped .
homeward bound had become an official coast guard vessel and i was assigned to her as master with orders to proceed to key west immediately .
i reminded him of his promise to cut us loose after the mission was over , he answered , george i have cut you loose there 's just a couple of little loose ends that need to be tidied up and i 'll be there to meet you and connie in key west .
connie and i said good bye , to claude and promised we would be back to dig in the ruins .
there was a small going away party on pisces then we hoisted sail and headed to key west , leaving jim to conduct studies along the barrier reef .
homeward bound made an uneventful passage the weather and wind remained in our favor .
for the first time in months , connie and i were alone it was like a second honeymoon we took full advantage by discarding our clothes .
connie was a natural born sailor and we found to our delight that we could handle the boat by ourselves just fine , though with only two of us watches were somewhat bothersome , skipper did his part helping out and i swear he could sense changes of sail trim and would bark if we began straying off course .
i was going to the miss the ketch it would be hard going back to little surreal .
we arrived in key west a couple of days ahead of pisces .
it had been over five months since we had left but in some respects , felt like a lifetime .
allan was there on the wharf to welcome us george , connie , welcome back and congratulations on completing your mission , even though i sent you off the master of a two hundred foot ship and you come sailing back captain of a stolen dingy .
christ george whats a mother to do , you give the term loose cannon a whole new meaning .
get settled in we 'll go over everything tomorrow i have something for you which should be right down your ally .
i thought , uh oh , i 've heard all this before and was determined not to allow allan to manipulate me this time , my new favorite word at the coming meeting would be no .
at the little reception , that evening abe gully and chad were hungry for details , especially about puerto rico and venezuela .
all evening allan smiled like the cat that had swallowed the canary and though i tried several times he would n't divulge any details , which only added to my frustration , leading me to say , allan , i bet you got your kicks pulling wings off butterflies when you were little .
afterward as connie and i lounged in the cockpit i said , kid , we had our own boat here for a little while and they took it away from us .
i 've never known allan to be so secretive , whatever he has in store affects us both so you 're going along as my backup , as you never have any problem saying no .
gw , you always worry too much , let 's wait and see what allan has to offer before going off the deep end .
i said , i made you a promise to take you home , you said yourself i always keep my promises , i wo n't let anything get in the way .
we walked in the next morning allan was all smiles .
he said , youve taken everything ive thrown at you and youre still on your feet .
the way he said it elicited a fleeting mental image , and i began to feel like a caricature of the energizer bunny or a timex watch .
he went on .
i 'll be charitable in saying your methods are somewhat unorthodox , but i 'll also be the first to admit these have not been normal times .
putting it bluntly you managed to change the course of history almost everywhere you went.i know i promised i 'd let you return to your little paradise on the river when this thing was over and it 's only fair that i give you a choice but let me offer you an alternative .
george , i want you to become a roving ambassador and follow up on the contacts you made in the last few months .
youll essentially set your own itinerary and be given full authority to negotiate on behalf of the united states , in all matters pertaining to relations with the nations of the caribbean .
youll retain your rank and receive full support and resources , in other words , you will be given carte blanche .
if you choose , homeward bound will be your flagship .
i know youre wondering , but i did n't steal her from you , just made sure she is recognized as a bona fide coast guard vessel and not just some ordinary yacht .
this way any interference with her will be viewed as an attack on the united states .
just so you do n't feel like i 'm shoving you out to pasture , pisces or a cutter will always be operating in your immediate area under your command .
youre free to pick your crew , i 'd suggest taking sam and joyce along , she and connie can ply their trade in conjunction with pisces which should keep them from getting bored .
sam should be an asset anyone , who can defeat a whole navy single handed , is always good to have around .
george , that 's the best deal i can offeryou and connie can take your time and think it over , there 's no rush , just give me your answer tonight at dinner .
i 'm not trying to pressure you , but there 's a certain mendez fellow in cuba who wo n't enter into negotiations unless youre present .
john anders is off rescuing some of his guys in kentucky when he gets back ill send him down to pick you up so you can spend time in your little frog pond .
we walked back to the boat in silence digesting what allan had said .
connie was first to speak .
gw , do n't feel bad , i see why you find it so hard to refuse allan and never turn him down .
i want you to know youve kept your promise to me , we are homeward bound , the name on the transom says so , it just may take us a little longer to get there than we planned .
allan 's right , youve changed history and i ca n't see you quitting without finishing the job .
it 's settled , well go home and rest for a week or two then take homeward bound to cuba and see senor mendez .
i 'll give you something else to think about , see the swing set behind those trees ?
we 're going to pretend its a trapeze and give it a workout tonight while we still have some privacy , remember pisces gets in tomorrow .
the end about the author after a career of working in many of the fields he writes about tom lives on his sailboat in the quiet laid back village of astor on the st. johns river and like most old folks , looks back , remembers friends , and reflects on a life well lived .
appendix a state of affairs by george walter collins phd .
jobs the beginning of decline for well over the past thirty years manufacturing the backbone of the united states economy has systematically and methodically been gutted as skilled and semi skilled manufacturing jobs moved overseas , this exodus has revealed the darker side of capitalism , a system based on supply and demand yet increasingly being driven only by profit .
we were handed the line that the american worker had become too arrogant , lazy , and unions a detriment to productivity .
we could no longer compete and american manufacturing in the traditional form was a thing of the past .
we were told not to despair , for we were about to enter the new and exciting era of the global based economy that would allow us to shed our dirty , sweaty coveralls and replace them with the crisp white shop coats of the coming hi tech revolution .
yes , it was going to require some adjustment on our part , as these cleaner better paying jobs would require a higher level of education and skill , but not to worry for as jobs disappeared , advanced training programs would create the new dynamic american super worker .
these hi tech jobs never materialized in the numbers promised and like manufacturing before them they too quickly vanished overseas , first to japan , who soon became overwhelmed , and in turn farmed them out creating the small asian tigers .
china , the sleeping giant , soon took notice , awakened , and quickly raced to the head of the pack .
state of alarm and continued decline in america while corporations morphed into global giants , americans became focused inward desperately trying to cling onto the standard of living their parents had fought so long and hard to gain for them .
unions who had once been the savior of the working class could do little but protest as they had indeed become corrupt and self serving , increasingly held in low esteem by most americans , and even generating apathy among their own rank and file .
but in truth even unions have little recourse when a company just packs up and leaves .
as americans scratched their heads and complained , trying to figure out what had happened , some genius hit upon the concept of the service society , america selling and servicing the endless stream of products which now flowed in from overseas .
again we were on the verge of nirvana , and with the dwindling options available we rushed to embrace this service based economy hoping it would lead to our salvation .
we swamped the new big box stores and gorged on the low priced imports .
we were no longer the proud producers of the worlds goods but relegated to that most vulgar of terms in the capitalist vocabulary consumers .
to add insult to injury average americans , the ones who had lost their jobs to globalization were now expected to buy the very things they had once made .
conversely those corporations and businesses that had gone global saw their profits soar and they along with investment groups used their new found wealth to fuel a feeding frenzy buying , merging , and taking over each other further contributing to the decline .
people who had for years nervously watched their resources dwindle and options shrink once again were lured into the financial markets .
after all , this seemed to be the direction the country was headed in .
even the government began encouraging iras , roths , and 401ks .
retirement and pension funds were heavily invested in various financial instruments and it was even bandied about that social security would be better off if it was too was privatized and invested in the markets .
wall street would step up and save america to meet the growing demand the brightest young minds , those who once would have ventured into industry and invented a better widget were lured to wall street .
they were quickly snatched up by financial firms and employed in the search for new and ever creative financial instruments with which to fulfill the ever growing demand .
financial markets became increasingly convoluted as a once great economy attempted to maintain its world position solely by manipulating paper .
the holy grail of this new economy became higher return on investment spurred on by larger bonuses .
gone were the days of holding long term the trusty old blue chips .
the new breed of investor wasnt willing to wait for long term gain and demanded instant gratification the industry motto became quick return on investment whatever the human cost .
old hands and young turks forged ahead , banks that had by law been barred from feasting at the financial trough , for good reason , cried foul .
like their cousins , the savings and loans had done years before they wanted in on the action so mobilized their legions of lobbyists and beseeched the fed and congress until they got their way .
not only could they now grant risky loans , but also speculate with their customers deposits free from the constraint of any moral hazard , knowing they were too big to fail and backed by the fdic and uncle sam .
everybody was eager to jump in bed together , even the exalted rating agencies such as standard and poor and moodys joined in the orgy , for added security and to hedge their bets investment banks turned to good old aig who was more than willing to sell credit default swaps .
avarice and greed crept through the financial system until they became the norm .
the only thing standing between our entire financial system and its total collapse was the moral compasses of those making the business decisions , watched over by a few weak regulative agencies rendered impotent by the federal government .
morals are iffy , and especially iffy when vast sums of money are at stake .
a guy , who would never dream of kicking a puppy , will for enough bonus incentive , stuff the poor creature into a sack along with a brick and casually toss it over the bridge into the river .
as for the regulators , i do n't pretend to know much about them except it is obvious they were outgunned and asleep at the switch .
just keep in mind , the government no longer serves its citizens but has been bought by big business .
i do n't have to defend this statement the government has a long track record to back it up .
as it became apparent the economy had weakened to the extent that it was about to falter the only cards left were the financial markets and the manipulation of those assets which could n't be made overseas mainly construction and real estate .
in an attempt to prop up and hide , the true state of the economy dubious schemes were hatched , some with the government 's blessing .
americans , who had watched their incomes shrink over the years , were quick to jump on the housing bandwagon .
for a few years the topic of conversation in the groups to which i was privy centered on how much property values were increasing .
no one wanted to pause and contemplate that maybe real estate prices were bordering on the insane .
instead , they continued to speculate .
then one day the bubble burst and the crest of the wave fell from under them .
like a house of cards , the markets collapsed bringing on a recession which threatened to eclipse even the great depression .
our government and the fed rushed in and rescued the very financial institutions which had caused this crisis , essentially making them whole at the expense of the american public .
markets have rebounded and life is once again good on wall street .
they can continue using their renewed vigor and low interest rates to formulate the next bubble .
for the american middle class who had borne the brunt of the recession , there was to be no recovery or jubilation , just the new numbing reality that they had been sacrificed by those they had elected to protect them and have been condemned to continue on a downward slide until they create the new american peasant caste .
the noblest experiment in democracy founded on ideals and principals that government should be by the people , and for the people had fallen victim to the mortal enemy of all civilizations and governments , that of greed , corruption , and ineptitude .
banks financial institutions have been loathed throughout human history , the moneychangers in the temple sort of thing , yet they provide necessary if somewhat repugnant services .
when i was a young man , each community had its own local bank you were on a first name basis with the manager and tellers .
it 's where you went when you wanted to buy a car , tractor , build a house , a new barn or just needed money to tide you over until the crop sold .
somewhere in the early seventies things changed , farmers for the first time in decades had a couple of banner years .
bankers took notice and began to encourage them to borrow , to buy newer and larger machinery , expand and modernize their operations , and acquire more land .
it was a bubble and within a few years many of those same farmers who had taken advantage of this easy money watched from the sidelines as their farms sold at auction .
i remember milling around in the cold in my insulated coveralls and sock hat pulled tightly over my ears watching as a neighbor 's way of life went under the gavel one piece at a time .
this marked the beginning of the end for both the small family farm and hometown banking as we had known it .
many small banks had also taken a hit and credit for farmers no was longer just a matter of signing your name and a handshake .
many of the banks in our area began to look toward commercial real estate investment instead of making personal or farm loans .
they began to favor strip malls , apartment complexes , and subdivisions .
they could manage fewer and larger loans for greater return .
as the seventies progressed , interest rates climbed to the point where one could make more from interest on cds than putting a crop in the ground .
again the bubble burst leaving the small banks and the savings and loans hung out to dry .
one by one the larger institutions began to gobble up local banks , now we were forced to deal with the branches of state and regional banks .
borrowing money was no longer a matter of trust , and those loans , which were granted , were increasingly sold to third parties .
no longer could you talk finances with someone you knew and get a grand to hold you over for a couple of months , any loan now meant mortgaging the entire farm and your soul a well .
banks , as well as markets by their very natures , are inclined to concentrate power and wealth which can too often be bent to nefarious activities .
most major banks have become so entangled with the financial markets that even regulators are hard pressed to make distinctions .
i believe government has encouraged the growth of banks as they need partners who will felicitate bond buying in order to finance their growing deficits , however , this too is unraveling as countries titter on the verge of default .
markets for most of my life , i have tried to understand the commodity and financial markets , i watched louis rukeyser for years and the nightly business report trying to gain perspective on how the stock markets work to help to promote free economies .
the most insight , i have been able to garner after all these years , is the uneasy feeling that underneath it all lies something inherently evil .
stock markets along with commodities on a good day can be classified as parlors of speculation and at its worst out and out gambling in one of its most virulent forms , like all gaming the longer it continues the more wealth is transferred from the many into the hands of the few .
as our economy faltered , we had once again reached that point of being placed in the position of sacrificing the greater good of the many for the benefit of a few .
markets , like banks , no longer performed their traditional function .
remember the days when you felt proud buying stock in a company such as p g , i.b.m , a.t.t or g.m .
you held it long term and hoped it went up in value .
it was touted as helping companies raise capital and grow and to provide the holder with a tidy nest egg for the future .
i now view the selling of stock in a company as something akin to selling off little pieces of your soul .
sooner or later some evil entity comes along and by hook or crook acquires enough shares to gain control and dictate the direction of the company they are more than likely interested only with how much wealth can be extracted than with the long term welfare of the company and its workforce .
there have always been sharks in the financial waters unlike the average investor , these guys are cold blooded predators .
they make their living watching , alert to any weakness , and ready to swoop down on some fat hapless company .
they take it over stripping liquidity , laying off the workforce , selling assets and contracting its manufacturing overseas .
before you know it all that remains of this once proud company , is a rusting empty shell of a factory and its trade name stamped on a package along with the phrase made in china , mexico , or some other emerging country .
stock markets no longer serve the average small investor who is suckered in and sent to the cleaners while the fat cats sit back and dream up the next illicit scheme knowing they are virtually immune to any prosecution .
the markets have become in many respects the largest criminal enterprises in human history .
the fact is we have placed far too much reliance on the financial markets and their allies .
every time we turn to wall street , all , they do , is look for new and creative ways to screw us .
its time we get back to making things and improving our infrastructure , put the financial institutions to work building america instead of raping her .
take off the suits and ties people , roll up your sleeves and get your hands dirty doing an honest day 's toil .
our society is based on the principal of capitalism and we hold up our free economy as a shining example for the world to follow .
as with all isms , it has its limitations and must be managed to some degree least it get out of hand .
capitalism is the best economic system humans have so far devised , yet its main weakness is in its tendency to concentrate wealth into fewer and fewer hands over time , very similar to a poker game .
we have again reached this point where ninety percent of the players are setting broke on the sidelines watching the few of immense wealth left in the game .
this does not make for the ideal model of an economic system we must find ways to keep capitalism fair and equitable so that the game does n't end as is so often the case with bloody riots in the streets .
the american voter we americans share much of the guilt for the existing state of affairs , as individuals we are relatively intelligent , yet when taken in mass are generally no smarter than a flock of sheep , and just as easily herded .
granted politics is boring and the media have done much to reinforce this .
as have those running for office .
they realize informed voters are a danger to them and have over the years systematically attempted to dumb down the electorate so they could go about enriching themselves and their masters .
unfortunately , for the last thirty years it has mostly worked in their favor .
the american people have taken their eyes off of the things that are truly important and have given the politicians ample time to hone their skills .
politicians have learned much about the foibles of human nature and how to play the fine points of hot button issues such as race , gender , social security , health care , abortion , gay rights , and gun control .
they encourage the creation of minorities so as to play them off against each other and fragment society .
these tactics are used effectively by both political parties as smoke screens to distract voters from concentrating on the real and important issues , the ones which will truly affect their well being , standard of living , and the future of their children .
both political parties have been hijacked and are absolutely riddled by disingenuous , self serving extremists .
if we are to save what the majority of americans once held dear , then it is time to rid ourselves of left and wing right wing politics as neither of these extreme fringe elements reflects the real america where the majority view falls firmly within the center of the bell curve .
fringe elements by their very nature are blind to everything but their narrow agendas .
they completely lack the wisdom , vision , moral fortitude , flexibility , and especially the common sense necessary to solve complex problems .
in the past , we could take comfort in knowing that in times of crisis the best and wisest among us would step forward from the private sector and save the day .
those times are long gone , descent individuals no longer wish to serve in government and be exposed to muckraking , gridlock , and phony political correctness .
they now shun politics which is a shame for it leaves the field wide open to zealots and crooks that by their very nature lack the skills and scruples necessary to bring our country back to a state of prosperity .
these partisan reptiles continue to gain office thru apathy and deceit playing the voter 's for suckers then falling over each other in the rush to sell themselves to the very special interests bent on destroying our way of life .
it 's disgusting , a blatant betrayal of the public trust , and in every sense of the word just dog gone wrong .
there is no easy way to discern good lobbying from bad lobbying , therefore , in all fairness we need to make any and every form of lobbying pardon the pun a capital offense .
the whole truth is that the people of the united states elect representatives to act on their behalf , no more no less , not to sell themselves out to some lobby group .
it is about time we begin to see lobbyists for what they really are , just out and out varmints perverting the course of democracy .
there are always going to be lobbies in one form or another , but they should be forced to present their case directly to the public not subvert its elected representatives .
american journalism news and journalism have with a few exceptions served the america public well .
it has never completely been without bias for it was americans reporting and writing about america , and reflected the view of the writer as well as the feeling of the majority at any particular period in time .
its fair to say there have been numerous dissenting voices along the way , yet this pro and con kept the population relatively well informed and americans were used to having newspapers spark lively debate among the citizens on the various issues .
being a journalist was considered a noble occupation , attracting some of americas best and brightest they acted as the ears and eyes of the masses and kept their readers abreast of happenings .
something went drastically wrong following the viet nam era .
people today in this so called information age know far less about the true workings and intrigue of their government and world affairs than did those a century ago , long before the advent of radio and television .
it 's not that the information is n't available , but rather the news media no longer possesses the will , talent , or intellect to present the pertinent facts .
it should be the obligation of the media to take the time to dissect issues such as proposed legislation and disseminate what it means in detail to the public .
the american people no longer receive the quality and quantity of information necessary for them to form intelligent decisions about the affairs that affect their lives .
major network news organizations skip over the hard issues in their attempt to be impartial .
they are no longer playing the role of antagonist , ferreting out and presenting facts .
instead , they avoid controversy by concentrating solely on the popularity and personality of politicians and their parties .
cable news is just as much of a sham as most have become bias spouting only the party line .
it has degenerated into a running commentary tracking ups , downs , and poll numbers , nothing more than a play by play , like narrating a sports event .
we can no longer rely on network news organizations to keep us informed for they have taken it upon themselves to prevaricate and make all the decisions for us .
news is riddled with the catch phrases such as we 'll show you , we 'll take you , or well tell you .
stay tuned .
without really being aware , major news organizations through their own volition have evolved into nothing more than propaganda machines .
people associate propaganda with the likes of goebbels , stalin , or tokyo rose as the telling of gross untruths , not so !
propaganda can be at its most insidious when it is watered down , slanted , and riddled with omissions until it becomes nothing but useless drivel .
every day from our own exalted media we are fed a stream of sugar coated pabulum spooned out to the masses designed not to foster informed human beings but just to titillate , entertain and promote the human interest story of the day .
in essence , drivel .
much of the blame i believe can be assigned to the schools of journalism as they stress to their students to always present a neutral persona .
no one is completely neutral in their personal or professional opinions , fair minded maybe but never neutral .
viewers are able to see behind this disingenuous faade and realize they are being manipulated .
journalists should act like human beings , if you want to be truly neutral then program a computer to do the news .
if you want to know what news casting is about go back and listening to the clips of the hindenburg disaster , reports of the london blitz , or walter cronkite announce the assassination of president kennedy .
journalists need to remain independent and fair minded , yet they have an overriding obligation be the watchdogs for their subscribers .
journalism is a highly complicated profession , one that requires exceptional abilities and hard work history has shown that only a few in each generation will truly succeed , the rest are but hacks and also rans .
a true journalist should be armed with the facts , have core values and know right from wrong and not just follow the current politically accepted norms , they must have common sense in abundance and use it .
a true journalist should be prepared to fall on their sword if necessary rather than to give a pass to an untruth or let a politician get away with telling the american people a bald faced lie .
this idea of neutrality is bs , journalists are first and foremost purveyors of the truth if they are unable or unwilling to tell the truth then they should find another occupation .
melting pot america used to affectionately be referred to as a melting pot .
we were proud of that distinction as we welcomed the huddled masses of immigrants that enriched this country and uplifted it to a position of greatness .
there was a willingness among these newcomers to leave behind the bad parts of their past and to concentrate on the future and be absorbed into their new country combining their strengths and skills with those already here , making themselves one with the nation .
it was n't always easy as each took their turn in the barrel , but it happened .
we owe much to these immigrants , what they brought with them added richness and texture to this country and gave us that which no other civilization in history has been able to attain .
sadly , this trend has been reversed in the last few decades as more and more groups have polarized , unwillingly to blend , and have pushed only for their particular agendas .
it has encouraged a climate of fractiousness and in time , will certainly come to have a deleterious effect on the fabric of society .
kentucky 's state motto united we stand divided we fall pretty well sums up my feelings on the matter .
i find absolutely nothing wrong with the phrase america love it or leave it !
n.a.f.t.a .
and other free trade agreements let 's use n.a.f.t.a for an example as it reflects the general principle surrounding other free trade agreements .
it is one of the most misrepresented , egregious and reprehensible treaties ever to be rammed down the throats of the american public .
it defies virtually every principal the united states was founded upon .
crafted by lobbyists and corrupt politicians , and i do mean corrupt , because there is no way they could be that stupid or naive , from both sides of the border .
it was touted to the public as a golden opportunity to open up new markets in mexico and canada .
it appears to have created little difficulty between canada and the us as we operate on a more or less level playing field .
the real purpose and intent were soon revealed as mexico immediately became a large vacuum cleaner that could be heard and felt across the lower 48 as it sucked american , as well as canadian jobs across the border .
it become a boon for those american companies and corporations ever looking for ways to increase their bottom lines and please greedy investors as they rushed to lay off their workforces , crate their equipment and move operations south of the border .
it became a bane to ordinary workers on both sides causing rising unemployment north of the border and creating virtual slave labor camps in mexico .
nafta since its inception has done little to raise the standard of living in mexico and has played a significant role in the explosion of the illicit drug trade as nafta has kept the average mexican in poverty creating a climate where the drug trade can flourish .
the next step in nafta centers on transportation , when mexican trucks are allowed free reign on american highways within a few years mexican trucks and drivers will dominate the north american roads .
it will become another industry of jobs americans do n't want as they can no longer afford to work in the trucking industry .
just how much of the wealth generating assets can systematically be stripped from a country before it collapses ?
i would n't be surprised to find that we have already surpassed that point .
immigration at one time , north america was considered a vast empty continent that is , of course , if you excluded the presents of the indigenous population .
even then as we began to fill in the empty spaces we devised a rudimentary immigration system which continued to develop until it evolved into places such as ellis island where immigration agents and doctors made the arbitrary decisions on who was fit to be admitted into the united states and who would be rejected and deported .
as the population grew immigration naturally became stricter .
i know first hand from my work in british honduras now belize that infants were signed up for a chance to immigrate to the us before the ink dried on their birth certificates , there was then over a twenty year waiting list .
there is an old saying , you can pick your friends but your stuck with your family .
immigration should be no different , like picking your friends hopefully you select only the best and brightest , because nowhere is it written that you must befriend the rotten apples too .
if you would n't be comfortable bringing these people into your home then why bring them into your country , is there a difference ?
our current approach to immigration is not unlike a real estate agent hosting an open house assuring the owners they will diligently look after their personal effects , then halfway through the day carelessly walking away and leaving it unattended in hopes those who tour will be honest .
illegal immigration is the same we have no idea who is coming into the country .
we are encouraging this type of immigration for only one reason , greed .
in most respects , illegal immigration amounts to nothing more than a modern form of slavery plain and simple .
borders borders not only divide but also define .
throughout human history , there have always existed borders , they are no different from any other property line and come in all sizes from those marking the outline of a flowerbed to those encompassing entire countries .
let 's start by scaling borders down to a size we can more clearly understand , to that of the average american home .
it 's your property , you pay the mortgage , and taxes , you maintain , improve , and protect it .
now think of a case in which someone hunts , trespasses , cuts wood , dumps trash , or heaven forbid attempts to squat on your property without your permission .
needless to say , your highly incensed , feel violated for they have invaded territory over which you have domain , it is a direct affront to you as the property owner .
are you going to seek legal recourse , you bet !
scale it back up to the size of our country and there is absolutely no difference with just this exception .
that instead of you alone it is the various government agencies acting on the laws passed by your elected representatives who are acting in your stead and assume the responsibility of protection .
thus , it is with the united states , canada , and mexico lines drawn on a map yet lines which separate distinct cultures two middle class modern nations from a backward peasant country .
mexico has done little or nothing over its long history to uplift its general population and economy in order to reach parody with its neighbors to the north .
instead , they have gone out of their way to keep their population ignorant and impoverished in order to allow the aristocratic elite to reap the benefits of resources and peasant labor .
their corrupt government instead of solving problems openly encourages millions of mexicans and latin americans to violate our border in order to mine the resources of their comparably rich neighbors .
i liken it to the connection between two car batteries one charged one not , in time they will equalize yet both together will no longer have the capacity to jump start a vehicle .
this is a migration different from any we have previously known , these people come not to be americans and rejoice in making our country better but simply to earn money to remit back home .
for the most part , they go out of their way to remain separate and do n't even pretend to be friendly toward america or its people .
as they grow in numbers , they push only their own agendas .
we have to decide if we want to maintain a viable country or just exist on an undefined piece of dirt .
we have gone so far in our efforts to discourage nationalism , we now teach our children to view the very ground they stand on with disdain .
i am sixth generation american yet i cant for all intents and purposes call myself a native american .
those american employers who were not in a position to ship their jobs overseas such as construction quickly hit on the next best thing , they began hiring illegal labor .
what started as a trickle became a flood for here were people willing to work for peanuts , had no legal recourse to fall back on , and seemed to be in endless supply .
several contractors i know made millions from illegal labor .
one said , they illegal immigrants work like hell until after a while , they start getting wise and realize theyre getting the shaft , when that happens i fire them and find new ones .
we have allowed this to go on unchecked for so long that there is such a lobby of illegal immigrants in this country that they are now able to openly usurp authority and dictate immigration policy to both state and federal government .
we have been invaded one definition of which states , to occupy in large numbers or live on a host the only clear path open to us is to halt this invasion , and to do what any self respecting homeowner would do , take control of our property and protect our southern border .
there should be no amnesty offered it is an affront to those patiently waiting around the world to legally immigrate to this country .
deport any individual who is discovered residing in this country illegally using whatever means it takes if that includes so called profiling so be it .
this ban on profiling makes me sick , it has become a fiasco .
human beings rely on profiling , it is a basic innate survival strategy employed even by infants and is enhanced by life long learning .
we as humans are constantly profiling everything present in our environment from the crack in the sidewalk , the stray dog , or the shadowy figure lurking in the alley .
we do this in order to determine danger or friend from a foe .
are we always 100 percent right ?
absolutely not !
sometimes you ca n't judge a book by its cover .
conversely , the bad guys many times use profiling to select a victim .
yet , profiling is one the essential items in natures tool box and i think that all of us will have to admit it has worked in our favor at one time or another .
just remember if it looks like a duck , walks like a duck , swims like a duck , and quacks like a duck it 's probably a duck !
shortly after 9 11 , while sitting in an out of the way lounge on the st. john 's river in florida i noticed two young arab men sitting at the bar .
they looked conspicuously out of place and you had better believe i was profiling them .
i watched them like a hawk and attempted to engage them in conversation trying to discern anything i could about their demeanor , did i feel guilty about doing this , hell no !
i felt it my duty to try in some limited measure to ascertain if these individuals had the potential to pose a danger to me or my country , after all these years i 'm still left with an uneasy feeling about them .
i get so aggravated when i hear stories like this .
a wildlife officer friend told us .
i stopped this car for weaving it was full of guy 's that could n't speak any english , had no drivers license or registration , and smelled like a rum factory , yet when i called dispatch and requested help from ins they called back and said dont get involved , let them go .
i can only conclude that the apathy , we currently see on the part of our politicians regarding immigration , is due once again to the influence of a strong lobby and politicians desire to win elections at any cost .
you could go as far as to say that there are members of the united states congress and senate who are acting under the control and influence of a foreign power , sound a little treasonous , proposing legislation which would be contrary to the safety and welfare of the citizens of the united states .
for the last forty years , this country has been ravaged by many of the unprincipled individuals we have elected .
the american people need to pay more attention and vet those running for office .
support and elect candidates who are patriotic , there is not a damn thing wrong with love of one 's country , have been instilled with real core values , and by that i mean an unswerving sense of right from wrong along with good old common sense .
remember these guys should represent you first and their parties second .
the way , i look at it , is , a statesman puts the interest and welfare of country and citizen first whereas a politician puts self and party before the welfare of citizen or country .
maybe this is oversimplified but it 's a good litmus test when deciding on the worthiness of a candidate .
if we do n't change the current direction , within another generation or two the united states of america will slide into the abyss to become just another footnote in history .
we need to get this done quickly for if mexico were to become a failed state there will be pandemonium along the border .
its apparent from our forays around the world that the us can not resist dabbling in nation building .
we have squandered our blood and treasure for zero gain in our attempts at selling our brand of democracy around the world .
we need to direct this energy toward mexico in order to bring their standard of living in line with that of its northern neighbors , only then will nafta truly work as it was sold to us in the first place and it will be a prosperous mexico 's turn to worry about protecting their southern border .
business ethics i have worked for multinational corporations , small , and even very small businesses as well as being self employed .
i have watched two of my favorite corporations international harvester and general motors go from being giants to virtually disappearing .
the companies will tell you that it was the intransigence of their workforce that led them to lose competitiveness in their respective markets .
i strongly disagree , i owned and used international farm equipment for many years and was such a stalwart supporter that i even engaged in a fistfight with a john deere owner .
their farm implements were simply superb .
poor management decisions alone are left to account for international harvesters demise .
general motors , i have never owned anything but gm automobiles and trucks throughout my life .
many of my close friends worked for g.m .
they would tell me the stupid things the company did from time to time .
in the early seventies , general motors became arrogant and appeared to be intoxicated by its own success .
this along with government mandates set them on the road of decline .
gm lost its sense of direction and became deaf , dumb , and blind ignoring if not outright shunning the people who were in the best position to give it input , its loyal customer base and they literally began to insult people .
buy a pontiac you 're going get a chevrolet engine , do n't like it , tough .
as the company faltered , it became ruled by the bean counters that stifled innovation and cut quality , their favorite answer was always , take it , or leave it .
they produced cars like the vega , citation , chevette , and a nova where the engine had to be jacked up in order to change the spark plugs .
diesel , the engine of the future , yet with all the talent at their disposal detroit diesel , isuzu etc , gm came out with the abortion of a modified oldsmobile engine , available in cars and light duty half ton trucks only .
i remember the nada guide for a year old g.m .
diesel car it read deduct 50 for diesel .
when they did manage to come up with an innovative idea , it was dropped instead of refining and working out the bugs .
as the japanese steadily advanced , we , who were still loyal , waited patently for g.m .
to come to its senses .
we used to ask each other what the hells wrong with those guys why do n't they wake up , but it was all in vain .
i bet if you peeked into the garages of ex gm big shots you 'll find a bmw , lexus or mercedes tucked away in the corner you know these guys had no brand loyalty .
they drove gm cars solely because they were forced to for the benefit of their job .
you can not be successful manufacturing a product you do n't like or believe in .
that 's the major reason gm is where it is .
the ceo , the design teams , engineering even those sitting on the board of directors should be hired primarily for their unadulterated love of g.m .
vehicles and their compensation should be pegged to the quality , not the numbers of units sold .
it should also be noted that companies such as gm , ge , and a host of others used their wealth to gain a foothold in the financial markets to the detriment of their core manufacturing .
in the end , all , i can say , is that business needs to always be true to its products and ethical toward their customers and employees .
the only reason business exists at all is to support some component of civilization like banks and other financial institutions a corporation should never be allowed to grow to the point where it reaches a state of arrogance .
any entity , which is allowed to do so , will stifle all competition and innovation which is counter productive in a capitalist system .
no business should be above another it takes everyone to make the world go round .
the guy pumping the septic tank is just as important as the people manufacturing or selling the toilet .
we are all wrapped up in this together , making , selling and servicing just to have a better life .
when a company seeks to maximize its profit by depriving its employees of their rightful share in the fruits of their labors it is inflicting harm not only on them but as we have recently found out on society as a whole .
human population this is by far the stickiest thorn of all , yet it is the overriding answer to virtually all the problems humans face .
we can talk about global warming , endangered species , dwindling resources and all the other crap , yet what it really comes down to in the end is how many humans beings can planet earth sustain and still provide a good quality or life , what is the minimum standard we are ultimately willing to accept .
there is no doubt humans have already become too numerous , only the strides , we have made in science , has allowed man to keep multiplying .
modern technology has enabled us to thwart many of natures safeguards and to continue with the growth of world population unabated .
we are not alone in our ambitions all other species will gladly take any advantage , and do the same if given the opportunity expanding their numbers until they run afoul of some limit set by nature .
humans have reached a critical crossroads , our technology advances have n't yet evolved sufficiently to override the innate instinct to propagate yet higher reason tells us we need to do so as we are facing extreme danger .
we have progressively come to rely on complex systems to feed , house and maintain our burgeoning populations , these systems have become increasingly susceptible to disruption and are prohibitively expensive to repair and replace .
rome had a great aqueduct system yet it was susceptible to failure by collapsing only one arch and after repeated invasions there remained neither the wealth nor the will to repair it .
haiti is a prime example of what lay in store for more and more countries , where some event man made or natural shatters the infrastructure which is already weakened and overtaxed .
replacement or repair is no longer viable due to the lack of wealth and resources this leads to a downward spiral where any additional stress exacerbates the situation until finally the economy then civilization collapses .
we are presented with example after example as we look back on the collapsed civilizations littering human history .
the likelihood is as the world population grows this trend will continue eventually overtaking even first world countries .
they too will begin to falter caught up in their own dilemmas no longer able to provide for their own citizenry much less render assistance to their weaker neighbors .
this will lead to further escalation of world instability as scarce commodities no longer flow freely creating turmoil and critical shortages of food and energy .
it is conceivable this will trigger a cascade leading to worldwide famine .
the quality of life will swiftly decline worldwide leading to the total collapse of civilization , what remains of humanity will be plunged into abject squalor and in the end well over half of the world population will likely parish .
unless we take immediate steps to address the population issue , we may well be faced with a bleak future .
we have to find some solution to our innate proclivity to procreate and to limit world population to a level of sustainability .
a small world population is the only logical choice , as it will allow us to utilize all of natures resources without overtaxing our planet .
we could then concentrate on implementing technology and quality of life for all yet knowing that in a worst case scenario we have set aside enough of the natural world so that humans have the alternative to return to a simpler way of life .
we still hold to the theory that we need to create multitudes young to take care of the old yet these young are destined to become the old of the future , maybe instead we need to concentrate on finding ways to keep our elders productively engaged longer , thus creating a more natural balance .
the most likely scenario is that we will continue along our present path of denial persisting in the pursuit of an ever expanding population to feed a world economy based solely on corporate profit .
that we will continue vainly searching for some magic technological bullet until in the end we shall have wrought so much damage to the planet that nature herself will have no other choice but to step in and by her own means bring the human population back into line with the rest of the natural world .
can she really do that ?
she can , as once deprived of our technological advantage we are one of the easiest creatures on earth to eradicate !
wouldnt it be preferable for us to come to grips before mother nature acts for she rarely grants mercy when she does ?
economists this is one group i can not fathom i have never been great at crunching numbers and in some respects envy those with the ability to work with them .
i just assumed these learned men with their phd.s , statistics , tables and charts had their fingers on the pulse of the economy and with their wisdom would guide us around the pitfalls and into a prosperous future or at the very least sound the alarm when we tended to stray .
looking back over the decade 's economists have a dismal track record , one unbefitting their status and incomes , and have in large part failed society at almost every turn .
maybe it is due to the way they are educated , or maybe too much education , lack of common sense or just too much genius .
maybe economists are just too scared knowing what is in the cards and keep the bad news to themselves .
maybe they are two faced , telling the public one thing and their private patron 's another sort of like insider trading anyway i have grown to mistrust them and believe that any good farmer with a barnyard education can predict our future economy with far greater accuracy .
it brings to mind a tale i once heard the roman senate spent weeks debating on how many teeth had a horse .
finally , one senator stood up and made the suggestion that they could resolve the matter by simply acquiring an animal and physically counting its teeth .
this suggestion so infuriated the other senators that they dragged the poor unfortunate from the chamber and stoned him to death on the senate steps .
what i am trying to say is put aside all the statistics and come down from your ivory towers , quit thinking only in monetary terms and mingle with the people who have lost their jobs to outsourcing and the rise in productivity , get a feel for the real economy , and it 's true life implications .
the economy is not just about numbers but flesh and blood , hopes , and dreams .
as we evolve so should models of our economic systems .
we have made great strides in our exploration of the universe and other areas of science yet our progress to find an equable and sustainable economic system is languishing in a malaise .
education we are constantly reminded that education is the key to the future , without it the united states will lose its edge and fall rapidly behind the rest of the world , yet in the same breath announce state and federal government cuts to educational funding .
i do believe that education is of the utmost importance for several reasons .
it is the only thing separating man from animal although in some respects animals are better off for they live out their lives following the innate programming provided by nature .
humans have cast aside much of their innate behavior for cogitative thought therefore making education a basic requirement for life .
the ability to read and write well is imperative as it is the basis for all other learning .
there should be no compromise made in this area , it has to come before everything else .
next in importance is the instillation of culture and civilization .
education is of little value if it can not be directly connected to , and benefit society .
back in the day , family and community as well as school shaped a childs demeanor .
it was a given that you could be chastised for an infraction by any adult who witnessed you misbehave or do something stupid , it kept you on your toes .
punishment in school led to punishment at home .
this model of adult supervision eroded over the years replaced by instructional law , children were taught to view all adults as predators .
no longer could an adult or even a parent scold a childs wrongdoing for fear of reprisal .
i remember observing a little girl in a supermarket knock cereal boxes off into the floor .
her mother said , young lady pick those up and put them back .
the kid refused mom gave her a swat on the bottom and made her put the boxes back on the shelf .
i would have done nothing different with one of my own .
when i reached the checkout , there she was forced to defend her actions to the police .
in a single generation , we have gone far in discarding all the wisdom that has been passed down throughout the ages regarding the art of child rearing .
it is any wonder the prison population continues to be one of the fastest growing segments of society .
extended families used to be the norm your grandparents or aunt lived next door or around the corner , children rarely felt isolated , nor were they left alone to their own devices , and the term latchkey kid had yet to be invented .
in this age of fractured families where for many children the only connection to the world is through electronic devices , home life can be anything from placid to chaotic and the generation gap continues to grow , grade and high schools have by default become family surrogates the principal anchor in many young people 's lives .
schools spent years lobbying for this responsibility yet at the same time they were evolving into self centered , impersonal mega institutions , learning factories the very size and complexity of which along with alienating parents made it impossible for schools to give each child the needed attention .
school systems became bloated bureaucracies more concerned with their own welfare and the education of children soon became a distant second .
they began to consolidate power closing small community schools and busing kids miles away from home to become just one among thousands .
this is n't too bad at the high school level as kids horizons expand with age but is highly detrimental to elementary and middle school children who need to feel and be a part of their local communities .
elementary schools should be local and small enough that kids have the opportunity to become familiar with all their fellow students .
this gives them the opportunity to learn about the people around them , to form friendships , and understand individual personalities without being overwhelmed .
schools can again become an integral part of a child 's life and a positive force , which helps to bind a community together .
it allows the opportunity for many more after school and weekend activities and the participation of parents , i will agree with hillary on this point the phrase it takes a village to raise a child .
it 's a shame that many schools view their students only as little inmates consumers instead of striving to shape their charges into happy , healthy and well rounded kids guiding them down the path to becoming educated , adroit young adults .
the modern school should take lessons from the schools of the past and become the place where children learn to interact with their environment , to develop the norms and social skills that will carry them thru life , and allow them to become productive human beings .
school along with parents and the community should together take the responsibility for molding and developing the super ego to expose children to all the facets of life and create within them civility .
if taught well by the end of the twelfth year , a young adult should emerge with all the necessary skills to take their place in society .
schools are only as good as their teachers .
the old adage those who can do , those who ca n't teach unfortunately is in all too many cases true .
one bad teacher can ruin a generation of young people .
conversely , one extremely good teacher may well advance the whole of civilization .
teaching should be recognized for what it is one of the most important and crucial occupations in the entire world .
the future and direction of the country and humankind rest squarely on a teachers ability not only in the subject area taught but also in their approach and outlook on life .
there can be no more important task for parents or government than to educate their children .
i can think of absolutely nothing else under the sun that tends to generate more return on investment than education .
i repeat nothing .
making cuts in the quality of education is akin to slashing at society with a straight razor .
unfortunately , not all kids will do well in school , the dropout rates reflect this .
i hate to use the term rotten apple for only a tiny handful truly fall into this category .
we need to separate and concentrate on these individuals in different and creative ways .
almost any kid can become productive if you can find the right buttons .
innovation in this area is the way to make sure that no child is left behind .
it is imperative that the united states rebuild its manufacturing sector , even if all children receive a college degree there is never going to be more than a limited demand in the technology sector .
we have this skewed view of what constitutes higher education , by doing so we condemn and stigmatize a large percentage of our young people who come to believe they are failures .
human beings are born toolmakers , not wall street bankers .
we need to instruct and employ our young people in the art of making things for that is what the majority of humans excel in .
as i said we have reached a point in this country where we attach stigma to the everyday working men and woman , we have assaulted the middle classes of this country by outsourcing or using cheap labor from abroad as a weapon .
there is a group at the top that sees nothing wrong with turning america once again into a peasant society .
they believe that this is the natural order of things and for the most part they have forgotten the lessons of the past and are about condemn us to relive them .
those at the top always believe their power and wealth will protect and insulate them , yet history shows in the end they to will also suffer .
idle hands are the devils workshop civilizations of the past realized this and employed their people to create the wonders of the world .
we need to educate and create craftsmen to build the reserve capacity to serve our needs in the event this world economy thing also winds up being a bubble or a new strong invigorated china one day stands up and says screw you .
therefore , we need to provide excellent vocational training , germany excels in this area , and it would not hurt us to follow suit .
germany has always placed great emphasis on manufacturing , it allowed them to ride out the global recession with a growing economy and low unemployment , if you stop and think about it , countries , that were making things , fared better in the recession than those who primarily bought or financed things .
there needs to be an emphasis placed on humanities both grade , and high school education should be steeped in the liberal arts .
expose children and inculcate within them an appreciation for the finer things in life , broaden their horizons and inculcate manners and civility .
do n't skimp on history teach it as it was originally written then point out the alternate views afterward .
do n't attempt to skew learning in order to make it conform to current political correctness .
every attempt at warping young people 's minds backfires and comes home to roost in ways we never envision .
history like everyday life is full of mistakes , whats done is done do n't be a revisionist .
let children see history as it was understood at the time it was made so they have an understanding of how views have progressed .
we need to teach children all we can about life and history so they can advance humankind and not be condemned to repeat the mistakes of the past .
i would much rather know someone who understands and shows interest in the world around them than someone who excelled only in ap calculus .
i 'm not saying we should n't develop a child 's gifts , but we need to give a kid a well rounded education to go along with those gifts .
you have twelve whole years in which accomplish this failure is not an option .
there is plenty of time in college for specializing in the advanced stuff .
humanity brilliance vs. utter stupidly i would be remiss if i failed to comment about my feelings toward my fellow man for in a way i am very proud yet disappointed in them .
there are those among us who are touched with genius .
these forward thinkers who throughout the ages have made the discoveries that have incrementally lifted humanity out of the morass and planted his feet in the dust on another planet .
they have gone far in unlocking natures secrets and the very essence of life itself .
then there are the artisans who with their hands turn ideas into glorious works of art .
they never cease to awe and dazzle me yet for every one of these wonderful rare individuals there appear to be a million thick bone headed humans still willing to believe in some sort of divine intervention or prophet .
any attempt at logical reason deserts them and they become fixated on defending the indefensible .
it is hard to believe in this enlightened era that there are so many ignorant human beings roaming the planet eager to blindly slaughter innocent people for the sake of some archaic ideology .
it shows that for all our gains there are clearly some aspects where humankind exhibits less intelligence than the animals around it .
i thought after the fall of communism yes i was one of those duck and cover kids and all of the modern advances of humankind has made that for once we would out of the woods but we are clearly not .
how we can overcome the intransigence of individuals , institutions , and countries is beyond me for it appears to be ingrained into the human genome .
who would have even guessed that the next world war would again be fought over religion and yet it most likely will be ?
tolerance tolerance is one of the most misused and abused words in our language .
liberals and conservatives alike are quick to wield it like a weapon accusing one group or another of being intolerant .
tolerance has many definitions and meanings .
as a dimensional inspector i worked with tolerances daily to me its means something within acceptable limits thus i transfer this meaning to my everyday life .
i will accept persons , places , things or events which fall within what i consider prescribed limits , anything beyond i consider deviated in some form or another .
its personal its part of me and it 's just the way it is .
roughly , this is how it translates into practice .
if you treat me fairly , bare me no ill will nor tend toward doing me mental or physical harm you are within tolerance .
break any of these parameters and i will become intolerant .
in extreme cases , if necessary i will with diligence do my utmost to thwart your every endeavor .
i never thought that i would live to see the day when the united states of america became intolerant but over the last few decades americans have increasingly been put under pressure by any number of minorities so no longer can there be open , honest dialog .
it may seem trivial at the moment and be heralded as the proper thing to do , yet when a country begins suppressing freedom of speech and expression or stifles honest dialog it starts down a slippery slope .
in the end , no good can come of it .
energy i love energy it has allowed the human race to advance to the point we have reached today .
it makes no difference whether its wood , coal , oil , thermal , wind , hydro , solar or what have you .
energy is the source that powers the engines that drive all of civilization and is the primary element that has allowed humans to become the dominant species on planet earth , it has made the strong stronger and permitted the weak to survive .
like everything in the human experience , we went first for the cheapest and most readily available sources to us at any given stage of our development .
we have now reached one of those crisis points in our journey .
the quest for shrinking fossil fuel reserves threatens the geopolitical stability of the planet and its prolonged use puts the balance of nature at risk .
we are reminded every time we fill up at the pump that fossil fuels will continue to escalate in price until they finally cripple any chance of continued forward progress .
we need to seek out and implement renewable sources of energy not tomorrow but like yesterday .
the main thing holding us up i believe is the oil lobby .
i get so irritated watching commercials where some supposed engineer with an insincere grin says we are working on alternatives as they show animated clips of algae farms , hydrogen fuel cells , etc .
i have no doubt their spending more on the commercials and lobbying than on actual research , if indeed they have these wonderful things waiting in the wings they wo n't be rolled out before the last drop of oil is extracted from the last well .
our economy is totally dependent on energy .
we have for years enabled and placated the sworn enemies of our society just for the sake of obtaining adequate supplies , every day our enemies grow stronger while every day we become weaker .
it is not only demeaning to us as a nation but may in the end prove to be our undoing .
hang the cost , get er done petroleum was expensive when it was first introduced into the marketplace .
concentrate on wind , solar , switch grass , algae , wave machines , cow manure , anything .
stop promoting ethanol made from food crops .
i 've raised enough corn in my life to know that taking food out our mouths to put in our tanks is a dead loser .
nuclear power , unfortunately , is so tempting yet it 's still subject to the frailties of man and we really have found no foolproof way to dispose of the byproducts .
anything , we do with nuclear energy , poses a threat and passes along headaches to future generations we do n't need to saddle them with any more problems than we already have .
we need to quit bitching about how much energy the united states uses in comparison to the rest of the world instead develop new sources , i 've lived with no refrigeration and where a candle or oil lamp was the only source of light , i did n't like anything about it .
it irks me to no end when i watch someone tell me that i need to change my standard of living , that i am guilty of ruining the environment and trashing the planet .
i scrutinize these individuals closely as they always appear well dressed and you can pretty much tell theyre enjoying all the amenities that an advanced society can afford them .
i mumble , you hypocritical bastard you want to put my standard of living in jeopardy , not yours .
case in point i observed a group of environmentalists studying the deleterious effects man had inflicted on the st , johns river .
in order to make their study , they rented two luxury houseboats , along with jet skies , and an ultra light plane on floats .
yes , i realize we need to be more conservative but the crux of the matter is we need to develop a multitude of new sources of energy that will enable us to keep our standard of living and quality of life on the advance and allow us to maintain an independent position among nations .
we have already expended enough blood and treasure buying and protecting traditional energy sources that had we used them to develop our own alternative energy instead we would now be an energy independent nation .
fossil fuels are a finite resource that we are depleting at a phenomenal rate , i can not but think that future generations will look back and be appalled by our shortsightedness .
every day we tarry puts us further into the quagmire .
it 's going to have to be done anyway why wait until we are so far down the food chain that we become bottom feeders .
the future of our species and welfare of all others depend on us doing the right thing now .
health care the whole ball of wax revolves around one three word phrase affordable health care .
this is one of the only sectors i can think of in a capitalistic system where supply and demand is n't the chief factor driving the market .
i suppose that is because the model has n't significantly changed in decades we still treat medicine as we did in the 1800s when the family gp held an exalted place in the community and made house calls .
i remember when most americans could afford to pay for doctor visits , prescriptions and even most hospital stays out of pocket , granted there was n't the array of diagnostic methods , treatments , drugs and specialists available to us then as there is today .
medical insurance was one of the benefits you received through the workplace although a blue cross blue shield policy was still affordable and within reach for most individuals .
the government became involved in health care in the 1960s which quickly drove up the cost .
when health care was offered by the government at little or no cost people began to overuse it .
this was also one of the major complaints of insurance companies , that some policyholders had a tendency to abuse the system by overuse or to seek out the best specialists available which naturally added expense .
many doctors and hospitals were also guilty of over prescribing and padding the bills of those who were insured .
along with everything else in the seventies the cost of health begin to spiral upwards insurance companies hit upon the idea of the health maintenance organization hmo this was supposedly designed to hold down the rising cost of health care .
members would have greater access to preventive medicine , they would be monitored , therefore , catching potential problems early , and substantially reducing cost , it seemed to be a winning situation all around .
what really happened with most hmos were the immediate attempts at cost cutting and the limiting of choice .
no longer did you have the option of using the doctor of your choice you were forced to choose from a list of company approved physicians and hospitals .
it quickly put the traditional system in disarray as patients were forced to drop their nearby family physician and pick some stranger from the list .
physicians and hospitals , who partnered with hmos , had to follow guidelines on tests , treatments , and the use of specialists this resulted somewhat in the rationing of health care .
family g.p.s saw the dynamics of their practices change for the worst .
the handwriting was on the wall they began to join hmos to form partnerships and clinics or in many cases leave general practice altogether and concentrate on some branch of specialized medicine .
the industry lost its focus that of serving people and began to concentrate like everyone else on maximizing profit .
medicine became a quasi competitive monopoly as the industry competed within itself the result drove up the price of goods and services .
today we are faced with a health care system that can no longer service the majority of its customers .
cost has spiraled out of reach for most people unless they have some form of insurance or government subsidy .
the time has come to examine and remodel the current system that has remained much unchanged since the dark ages .
medical schools are still geared up to churn out general practitioners where students spend years learning the skills of general medicine then move into some specialty .
i think we should reserve med schools for general practitioners only .
start a new curriculum designed to create medical technicians trained in only in a small specialized portion of overall medicine and that require only one to four years of training depending on the complexity of the field .
it would n't differ very much from that of ase mechanic certification where technicians receive certification in specific areas like electrical systems , brakes , or air conditioning .
those who graduate as general practitioners would remain the top dogs so to speak .
gps would still be compensated for their years of schooling as they would now be the supervisors of the system and would return to general practice serving their communities diagnosing , treating and if need be , referring their patients to the proper specialist technician .
this would allow the creation a vast number of new mid level medical occupations and give the incentive to crank out the new specialists who like mechanics would work for a modest hourly wage it would go a long way in driving down the cost of health care .
clinics and hospitals would conform to this model housing several of these specialties under one roof it would n't differ significantly from the present system just become more cost effective .
i do n't see where this change would weaken the system overall as universities would still turn out a large number of researchers and physicians it would just be that the vast majority of medical staff attend a vocational school to learn a specific part of the medical trade .
science is unlocking life 's secrets it is revealing that life is nothing but a biological machine , in reality doctors are mechanics , mechanics working on the human machine .
next find ways to mass produce medical equipment and supplies like televisions , automobiles , or toasters there is no real world reason for medical equipment to be any pricier than other goods in common use .
this will go hand in hand with the increase in new technicians both of which can be mass produce without sacrificing quality .
it will make health care affordable to everyone and as the model gains acceptance will expand to encompass more and more of the world 's population creating an ever larger consumer base .
what i purpose keeps health care within the private sector , and if managed properly will bring the cost down so that all americans can once again pay out of pocket for medical care .
drug companies also need to change their approach to doing business .
yes , i concede research , development and testing is expensive .
pharmaceutical companies need to concentrate on getting things right instead of paying doctors to push pills just to maximize profit .
i have no idea what the fda is doing , it appears that drug companies are putting products on the market with adverse side effects that are far worse than the disease there designed to relieve .
i guess they figure that gross sales will generate enough cash flow that there will still be immense profits left after the lawsuits have been settled .
expend more time producing safe drugs without debilitating side effects .
it should n't be necessary to run the risk of destroying your internal organs or develop suicidal tendencies in order to rid oneself of a simple case of adolescent acne .
cut out the crap of ask your doctor if x is right for you .
it reeks of the days of selling snake oil .
the modern pharmaceutical industry cares not whether it does good or harm just so that its makes a huge profit .
they have become as dangerous as any illicit drug cartel .
america must be at the forefront of health care we need to take the lead instead of squandering our resources stubbornly maintaining the status quo .
we keep touting that we have the best healthcare in the world when in fact everyone knows it 's a bald faced lie .
i guess the point , i am trying to get across , is that institutions become ingrained and seeped in tradition to the point where it becomes dogma and like religion resists any change .
we need to look at the current system which has failed us so miserably with an open mind and not be afraid to tinker or replace it with something that makes sense and works , just as with our machines institutions have to evolve , we have been headed in the direction of turning out medical technicians and this would just be the scaling up and fine tuning of what we are already doing .
the system is totally broken costing each year over eight thousand dollars for every man women and child in the country , why are we trying to patch it up and keep it running like an old worn out car , it 's time to trade it in or scrap it .
liberal vs. conservative the collins family always considered themselves conservatives and i followed their example and leaned toward the republican party , as i believed it to be the lesser of the evils even though i could n't agree with every plank in their platforms .
i liked to think of myself as middle of the road , but the gop kept swinging to the right just as the other party journeyed to the left .
i believe both parties have deserted the average american who falls within the center of the bell , not necessarily in there every specific belief , as take me , for example i dont equate morals with religious belief and support reproductive choice .
in the current climate , i no longer qualify for membership in the republican party , i am branded a rino .
yet i strongly support one 's right to own firearms , i oppose the growth of large government and it 's continued attempts to constrict personal freedom , i believe that financial institutions and multinational capitalism needs to be tweaked and regulated in order not be injurious to the american people .
i see nothing wrong in doing this as it is every nations duty to guard the well being of its citizens .
if other countries do not subscribe to a level playing field , it shouldnt be seen as an excuse to take advantage or to emulate them .
what i do want is my government to concentrate on those things which affect us all , such as defense of country , borders , and protection of our interests around the world .
to watch over the health and safety of it 's citizens , to provide oversight of our capitalist system in an attempt to keep us all playing fairly with each other .
to promote infrastructure and projects that advance us as a people and nation , space , exploration and alternative energy , come to mind and balance the budget while youre at it .
governments should concentrate on the critical business of the country and leave those hot button issues that ca n't be resolved to anyone 's satisfaction on the back burner where they belong .
laws and lawmakers we are a nation of laws , local , state , federal we elect representatives to draft and enact them .
like every occupation , you must perform the function for which you were hired , lawmakers are no exception .
at every legislative session , laws have to be brought forward , sooner or later all the good and necessary laws have been enacted , yet lawmakers have to keep making laws in order to justify their jobs .
the laws become stupider and more restrictive , every law enacted means that a segment of the population becomes lawbreakers or criminals we have done such a good job of creating laws that we have the highest per capita incarnation rate in the entire world .
we should remove the burden of having to make laws from our representatives maybe have a two year moratorium or only allow one law be enacted per session or require a two thirds majority vote , maybe even rescind a law for each new one made .
laws are inherently bad they are an indicator that there exists a problem in society .
though laws are aimed initially at a small number of individuals , they usually in some unforeseen way come to restrict the innocent majority as well .
our focus should be on not creating more laws and building more prisons but rather to expend our efforts in the direction of producing better behaved citizens .
government i have bashed governments , but it should be pointed out that humankind has never perfected any form of governance that continued to work well over the long haul .
we have made great strides and tried countless variations yet the ideal system even today still manages to elude us .
governments are only as good as the people that comprise them .
a wise and just king can rule better than a corrupt democracy or republic yet a bloodthirsty tyrant can just as easily replace this wise and benevolent king .
to their credit , our founding fathers were cognizant of many of the pitfalls that plagued governments of the past and attempted to form a government that would not lead to the abuse of power .
they exceeded beyond their wildest dreams making ours the best in all of history and though it contained flaws managed to survive and serve a growing nation .
no matter how well crafted and conceived the simple fact remains that all overnments are dependent on those who run them , good and just people make for good government , bad and mediocre people make for corrupt and inefficient government .
throughout american history , we have suffered between the good and bad yet at times of crisis have been fortunate to have leaders in place that arose to the occasion and brought our country through .
we can not rest on our laurels past performance is not an indicator of the future .
factors affecting government like all things change over time .
there are always those who wish only to gain power , a static government allows these individuals to probe and exploit its flaws and to further only their own agendas which seem always to be at odds with the welfare of the populace in general .
good government is always dependent on the vigilance of the ruled , responsibly rests squarely on the shoulders of the electorate , they choose and in doing so chart their own destiny .
final thoughts i find in reading through what i have written that there is an air of pervasive pessimism .
i am sorry that i have come to feel this way after a lifetime of living , yet i suspect that the majority of americans also share my much of my uneasiness .
one of the conclusions i have drawn from my own writing rightly or wrongly is that the american people are increasingly allowing themselves to be governed by groups of special interests exerting undue influence on our elected officials whose quality has suffered through our apathy as voters over the decades .
this has led to the circumventing and perversion of the natural course of government and has rendered it ineffectual .
i have always been led to believe our democracy is of the people , by the people , and for the people .
i 'm not so naive as to believe this is the case in all instances , but it should be considered the benchmark we strive toward .
ideals are just that ideals , as individuals or as a nation we most times fall short of achieving them yet that is no excuse to abandon them .
we as humans are at our best when we set and work towards goals .
i hope that i am laboring under a misconception on my part for if true this untoward influence is disturbing and heralds the impending end to our traditional form of governance which will eventually become a sham ruled over by oligarchs , not unlike what is taking place in russia today .
we need to concentrate on civility and ethics in society it appears to me that human beings have a natural tenancy to gravitate toward the lowest common denominator .
the decay of civility is a battle that every generation of parents has had to struggle against in their attempt to inculcate manners and morals into their offspring .
we used to rely on a close knit family structure , churches , community , and a national sense of pride to accomplish this .
mind you i am not religious to the contrary i have come to see religion in many respects as the bane of mankind , it has over the centuries impoverished far more than it has ever enriched .
all humans possess within them spirituality this may well be the one sense which makes us unique among all species if so in many cases it has been ill used and its original intent perverted .
this area needs to be explored further from a scientific perspective as it appears to be an innate sense given to us by nature that we do not yet understand .
i think that in the moral area of the human experience there does exist to some extent a struggle between good and evil .
i am one of those who subscribe to freud 's theory that there is constant conflict between the id , ego , and super ego .
society continually needs to strive to shape and develop the super ego so that it may effectually govern the behavior in youngsters and adults as well .
i have never been considered a prude yet there is nothing wrong with a strong internal sense of right from wrong , it goes a long way to fostering one 's conscience .
a good conscience leads to making common sense decisions that consist of weighing all aspects of a problem and coming to a decision , which by and large is usually proved correct .
it is this moral compass that allows us to navigate through the troublesome situations of life and to ultimately do the right and just thing .
still i will end by saying that i continue to hold out hope that there is nothing wrong with our country or the world that can not be put right through diligent effort and common sense .
we need to work on our institutions to bring them along as we evolve not allow them remain static .
we need to once again concentrate on whats good for each other as a whole instead of just self .
we should have ideals and strive to live up to them , even though we know that we will never fully succeed .
we excel in science and technology we need to also excel in the art of advancing civility and governance .
appendix b mankind extension of nature mankind an organism expressly created and evolved by nature to overcome limitations and carry out tasks she herself can not directly or readily accomplish .
a theory independently developed by george walter collins ph.d. a notice to the reader this theory has not been written for the express purpose of direct publication .
therefore , i have not attempted to place it in apa format .
it is rather promulgated in an informal style to introduce an idea to any interested parties and to relate a rather unorthodox perspective on the human condition .
it directly addresses the important question of who we are as a species , and our presence and purpose on earth .
it ventures into several fields and disciplines of which i have only a rudimentary understanding of basic principals .
i have therefore kept citations to a minimum for i feel confident that those , toward whom this theory is directed , will have a much better understanding of how it may relate to their own line of research and that of others in associated fields .
i have made every attempt to stay within the guidelines of current accepted scientific doctrine and have allowed only for the variant that i described as nature .
it is intentionally written in the broadest and simplest terms in order to encompass the subject .
this theory is directed solely at answering an all important question yet it may also give a measure of hope to the human race .
theory a tentative insight into the natural world a concept that is not yet verified but that if true would explain certain facts or phenomena .
i was rather hesitant to brand it as a theory for i felt that i lacked the credentials necessary to make the following assumptions and that it is based on what i know , what i think i know , and conjecture about what i do n't know , yet on examination it appears to fall squarely within the definition .
this theory makes no attempt to shed light on the creator or creation .
humankind though fervently seeking , has a good ways to go before we evolve or become sufficiently enlightened to fathom the answers to these greatest of all questions .
i confine myself to something i find much simpler , the logic behind the appearance of humans and the reason for their presence on the planet .
everyday day we are bombarded by news of the horrors humans have inflicted on some species , the planet , or ourselves .
yet i have always been an optimist and felt that man was n't merely dumped here to do his own thing so to speak .
science has advanced man 's understanding of himself and the natural world .
a lot of the questions i had about nature and our species have been answered to my satisfaction and every day it seems another piece of the puzzle falls into place , i have counted myself lucky to have lived in such an enlightened era .
there remains one nagging question that neither science nor religion has confronted or answered to my satisfaction , yet it is to me of paramount importance .
where exactly do i , we , all humans fit into the grand scheme of things ?
one thing is certain man is an animal yet we seem to be incongruous with the rest of life on the planet , why ?
the more we learn about nature , the more we have come to find that everything fits neatly together that is except for us , we alone stand apart not just apart but we have come to be for the moment the undisputed rulers of this planet .
it has galled me to no end to think of my species as some perverted freak and aberration unleashed among the hapless inhabitants of the planet .
that we blindly bumped along the path of evolution fighting off nature at every turn until finally stumbling into the light of day to become man the heinous destroyer of planets , the bane of this little blue green cloud enveloped world .
i instead worked from the premise that logic dictates , that we like all other creatures have evolved to fill a particular niche .
ok , great but what niche ?
i was intrigued years ago by the gaia hypothesis james lovelock 1979 it seemed extremely logical to me .
i had n't heard any more about it until i began writing this paper .
as i revisited it i began to reason that if life nature could transform the planet into a livable habitat and maintain it within a certain set of parameters then surely it would also make some attempt to develop the means to defend that habitat .
i began by discarding and dismissing all the daily activities and jumbled affairs of man liking it to the activity within a beehive or ant colony .
i remembered a verse from a shakespeare sonnet the summer flower is to the summer sweet though to its self it only live and die .
on the other hand , like the honeybee engaged in food gathering is oblivious that its endeavors are also providing a vital service pollinating the plants it visits .
throughout nature , there are countless examples of such symbiotic relationships .
i reasoned if species could unknowingly evolve into partnerships then why not humans .
i approached the human race in a likewise manner with humanity busily living out their lives without the slightest inkling that they have been programmed with subtle instincts unknown to us and are likewise locked into a symbiotic relationship .
i reasoned that since we are unique and complex our symbiosis must also be complex and unique .
that something in the sum total of our efforts is , in fact , being used not only to benefit us but also to serve and further the goals of a partner .
i looked at where mankind is today and the role he will likely play in the near future .
it was obvious that we have reached the point of having domain over all life and resources on earth since we are so intertwined with all aspects of the planet it did n't require much of a stretch to come to the conclusion our symbiotic partner was life itself , i.e. , nature .
if this were true , then there must be some item , task or service that could only be performed by humans yet would specifically be of benefit to nature and life on the planet as a whole .
this at first seemed unlikely as mankind has increasingly put pressure on nature and her resources and i could hardly believe that anything , man is currently doing , would constitute the basis for any healthy symbiosis .
i kept looking and was lucky for had i or anyone looked for it fifty or maybe even twenty years ago it would n't have been evident , yet there it was in plain view among the current knowledge of today .
what in this knowledge could further nature ?
the thing that immediately jumped out was the growing danger and possible impact from a celestial object .
it had happened before and had wiped out great numbers of species more than likely even the dinosaurs the most powerful creatures to ever walk the planet .
annihilation from some space object remains for the present the worst threat that life on earth faces .
humans alone have evolved the ability to recognize this threat .
we are the only species with the skills necessary to detect , track and possibly develop the capability to divert these objects .
there were two ways to approach this .
first that it is purely serendipitous for the planet that we have evolved independently to confront this threat .
second that catastrophic events of this type in past history triggered in some way such a trauma in nature that she began preparing for the next event millions of years ago ?
nature has instilled the will to survive in all her creations .
every organism has developed some means of protection yet none of these proved effective against an incoming meteorite or comet .
species have the ability to adapt over time to counter new threats .
i decided to go with the premise that if organisms can develop defenses individually than why not life developing a defense collectedly , it would be a natural extension of gaia and that through the processes of evolution and natural selection our species had been purposely crafted and refined for just such a task .
it seemed a little bizarre and far fetched yet i began to develop this into a theory in doing so stumbled on something even more intriguing it was n't as obvious yet had to do with another of natures prime directives that of expansion and colonization , life 's seemingly unending desire to spread wherever it can .
nature has done an admirable job of filling the planet with life .
yet from the time creatures developed sensory organs and perceived other heavenly bodies it 's almost a certainty that within them there was aroused an urge to establish life elsewhere .
it is a prime directive of nature , but one she has been unable to fulfill until the evolution of man .
it was then that i began to wonder if nature had n't evolved humans as an accessory in this quest to overcome her own limitations .
i began by speculating that she may have tried different avenues somewhere in the past and found there was little hope of evolving a terrestrial creature that could accomplish extraterrestrial tasks in its naked form .
therefore , in order for nature to achieve and further these goals , she needed to develop an organism that could far exceed the abilities of any that came before it .
nature 's answer to this quest was the development of humankind .
to spread life elsewhere there were too many unknowns that had to be overcome and these could only be ascertained by direct exploration and observation the kind of things earthbound nature herself is unable to accomplish , yet something man is superbly equipped for .
these issues would have to be addressed and some means of transportation devised before organisms could be successfully tailored to exploit what resources were available to support life on an off world body .
we have reached the cusp of the exploration of or solar system and about to reach out to other planets .
man is aware of his limitations we realize that even though we have the means to develop the machinery to explore far out into the depths of space humans in their current form are ill suited for the long voyages required , or for the habitation of other planets long term .
nature has brought man to his current stage of evolution and equipped us for the task of initial exploration .
we have begun to ascertain for ourselves as well as for her what lies in our solar system and beyond .
if life is to survive and thrive in such hostile enviroments , it will be necessary for it to adapt .
our premise up to now has been to develop technology that is geared to working within our species limitations , as our technologies advance it will become more practical and advantageous for us to adapt to a new environment rather than the other way around , nature is rapidly equipping man for just such a task .
she is giving mankind the ability to act on her behalf .
it is just a matter of time and we are not terribly far off from having the ability to modify humans or engineer other life forms that will make long space voyages and permanent colonization of distant planets a reality .
i would bet there are people whiling away their days working toward just such a premise .
the implications of this are staggering when you think that we will in essence take over evolution from nature and create a species which in certain respects will come to supersede our own .
yet we are doing exactly as we have been programmed , to carry out those tasks that nature can not accomplish herself or more aptly put could not up to now accomplish .
again one can believe that it 's a convenient accident that man just happened to evolve independently on his own to this point or you can reach the conclusion that there was deliberate intent .
that nature with her infinite patients has and is behind the scenes pulling the strings .
this led to the most startling conclusion of all .
that nature developed our species to overcome not one , but several of her limitations and we may not be anywhere close to realizing the full extent .
if taken on to its logical conclusion can only lead one to the assumption , that the human species taken as a single entity is nature herself personified .
it brings to mind the passage god made man in his own image .
nature made us into the best possible image she could for our intended purpose .
for whatever faults we may possess , we are at the moment the undisputed guardians of her planet and about to further her ambitions and spread life throughout our solar system and beyond .
we think of evolution in terms of slow physical changes over extremely long periods of time .
yet evolution is also mental , humans have mentally evolved more in the last couple of centuries than in all the millions of years previous .
this rapid mental evolution has not only allowed us to view ourselves differently , it will come to allow nature through man the ability to make rapid changes to creatures which up to now have taken her eons to accomplish on her own .
this is perfectly logical the marriage of nature represented by man and technology fused together , both accelerating along the same path of evolution .
we come to the principal unknown in the theory , that of the causal agent .
yet like black holes , dark matter , and string theory it likely exists .
i speculate where it most likely is to be found yet leave it for others much wiser than i to explore and ruminate over , that is what force or mechanism initiated , manipulated , and shepherded us down the road of evolution ?
i have used a little faith , logic , and common sense , this has led me to the assumption that barring some supernatural force , or divine intervention the answer must , in fact , be found in nature .
i strongly suspect that it can only lie among the instincts encoded and carried along in the genome sequence .
the installation of these instincts or innate behaviors established and enabled in the right combinations paired with the correct physiology creates the drive which over time allows without conscious thought an organism to achieve a particular set of behaviors .
instincts are a directly observable phenomenon they have been extensively studied yet their origins , implementation , and development along with that of symbiosis for the most part remains a mystery .
free will may have replaced the apparent lack of these observable instincts in modern humans .
once the intelligence reaches the point that an organism can make free choice the innate behavior cycle is broken and becomes recessive and is then superseded by learned behavior .
i believe this is the key and for the want of a proper definition , i will simply include this combination of instincts within the broader term mother nature .
in order to give greater meaning and clarity to the reader i portray nature as a conscious being which in fact she is not .
rather she is more likely subtlety embedded within the genome of all creatures and working in ways that are not yet identifiable or understood .
synopses just as life began from a fortuitous amalgamate of chemical elements and agents it is a certainty that the first replicating organism could be defined as having zero intelligence .
primitive senses evolved organisms still had no concept of intelligence yet within them there developed the seed of the thing we call nature .
deaf , dumb , and blind creatures grappling with existence ever trying to better cope with their surroundings .
life living , evolving , and dying yet becoming ever more diverse developing senses , which eventually led to instincts which drove creatures to acquire rudimentary intelligence to help with day to day life yet at each advance nature , was there continually pushing the envelope .
most creatures settled into their lineage and whatever intelligence they developed was used for day to day activities .
for hundreds of millions of years life , continued to evolve creatures honing their skills yet full consciousness eluded them .
why , simply because it had n't been invented .
biotic crisis animals became adept at using their surroundings and each other for food yet there were things beyond their control , the turmoil of the planet , catastrophic occurrences such as earthquakes and climate swings along with the occasional comet or meteorite causing mass extinctions .
every time things really got to rock and rolling there came a chunk of something gliding in from the vast reaches of space spoiling the party .
each brought with it horrendous devastation and disrupted most if not all life on earth .
there was one overriding fact to these incidents .
no matter how plentiful , how far up the food chain or how big , bad , and dominant you had become , there was absolutely nothing to keep an incoming object from ruining your day .
there had been mass extinctions before they were reoccurring and to say the least very inconvenient , this presented a big problem for nature .
the foremost attribute or instinct shared by all living things seems to be the will to survive and propagate .
if a solution could n't be found for these pesky rocks there was a good chance that sooner or later the really one big one would come along and turn what nature had worked so long and hard to create into a lifeless cinder .
biotic response this along with similar events of extinction provided the impetus and nature began to tackle the problem , what to do ?
big and ferocious creatures were n't going to be the answer , history had shown that they instantly turned into crispy critters or starved to death .
tiny one celled things might survive , but it had taken eons to develop the atmosphere and life to this point and , as they say , been there and done that not even mother nature felt inclined to keep starting over from scratch .
no !
if there was to be a long term future for life there had to be a solution but mother 's nature 's tool box was rather limited , actually it was empty except for one item , that of evolution itself .
she set to work using what she had on hand .
if only she could take one of her life forms and gradually force and coax it into becoming capable of thwarting the next threat .
the evolutionary process evolution works yet has a couple of great impediments for one its extremely slow by our standards and another in that it does n't always produce the desired results .
even at full throttle , there might not be time to avert the next big event but it was worth a try .
nature you might say held a competition among her current creations that is , the thirty or so percent that had survived the last collision .
she found there was n't anybody around remotely capable to answer the challenge , those , who were on hand , were geared to eating one another other and not much else .
they had evolved to exploit their own particular niches in the ecosystem and were bent on becoming more and more specialized at a particular task .
nature was going to have to make a radical departure and create a totally new line of creatures one of which could eventually acquire the ability not only to modify it 's environment , but to manipulate the very elements and atoms from which it was made .
thus began the slow journey down the long road of evolution the participants never aware as they evolved of what their ultimate destiny was to be , they just lived , reproduced , died , and evolved .
we have little in the way of knowing how intellectually advanced were the brightest of theses extinct species i just assume that nature mirrors us and gains insight as she forges ahead through the process of trial and error or in her case natural selection .
she slowly manipulated and molded our ancestors course of development until she had produced the first primitive hominidae .
even then , it was a competitive and complicated road with many forks and dead ends and a lot of competition until homo sapiens began to walk the earth .
in the end he had evolved an upright stance and the opposed thumb along with a large brain .
he now possessed the right physiology and nature set about refining her creation .
she showed little mercy as she forced him to work hard and to exploit every aspect of his environment for his very survival .
the key factors in the development of this creature was not to award him a natural edge , one that would give him a sense of contentment and send him down a dead end path .
nature through design or accident kept man from being very good at all the things his fellow creatures could excel in .
not very big or strong , no sharp fangs or claws to catch prey or rip an opponent apart , he could n't fly nor run fast , when it did come to running he usually lost the race and wound up lunch in someone 's belly .
life must have been very traumatic for these poor creatures , even today , we are left with the vestiges of the primal fear of things that rustle the bushes or go bump in the night .
his eyesight was just adequate as was his hearing and sense of smell .
all of these weaknesses forced him to develop ever increasing brainpower and later tools to help overcome these deficiencies .
nature even went so far as to deprive this miserable creature of a luxurious fur coat to provide him protection from the elements .
what hair he did possess presented more of a nuisance as it harbored unpleasant critters and needed to be cut and groomed ?
he thus was forced to search for better things with which to provide him with cover .
man did n't possess a thick skin nor was he particularly happy sleeping in a tree , on a rock or lying in the swamp with the rain pelting down .
everywhere he went he was at the mercy of the elements and stalked by predators .
he was forced through necessity to improve his environment first finding then later building shelter .
as he evolved , he was slowly deprived of all but the simplest of innate behaviors other animals passed down in abundance to give their offspring a head start .
human offspring are born defenseless requiring long periods of care the species was forced to teach all the necessary skills to each succeeding generation .
for this , he evolved the ability to develop language .
finally , he began to venture out of africa and encountered new and numerous hardships requiring him to become ever more creative and resourceful .
ultimately it led him to develop reason to work in groups and create societies and civilizations .
this species still had no idea of why it was here , only realizing that in many ways it was becoming unique .
over time as he advanced he came to make up his own convenient answers to these questions yet continued to live , reproduce , die and evolve .
has it all been happenstance or is nature using every trick and means at her disposal to brutally force and drive this pathetic animal on a trek that one day would take him to the moon and beyond .
argument history has proven that nature does n't have much control over celestial objects , but she has retained the right of absolute domain over us .
even though we like to think differently , she has made life miserable for humankind from its inception forcing us to think and work harder than almost any other creature .
she 's a taskmaster who drives us so relentlessly we have come to consider her as diabolical and developed the view that she is not our partner but rather our adversary .
she has n't missed a trick even going so far as to push us into creating our own myriad of problems that we are forced to confront .
for millennia mankind has striven to set himself apart from the rest of nature even reaching the absurd conclusion that he is an entirely separate creation actually to an extent he is even as he works endlessly to unlock natures secrets he holds her in contempt .
it has only been in this century that events have forced him to revisit this argument and begin to concede that he may indeed be a part of nature like it or not and has come to grasp the reality that he has the ability to bring about his own extinction and therefore the planets .
in truth , nature is n't a religious force at least not in the role we would wish her to be .
she possesses none of the supernatural forces we attribute to our deities and this is perhaps why she has n't gained respect or rather has come to lose it among modern societies .
the truth is she does n't nor can she interest herself with the miniscule trials and tribulations of humans as we play out our daily lives .
we are just her tools to achieve some result .
she is neither malevolent nor benevolent .
dictatorship or democracy she cares not .
when we fight among ourselves and subtract millions from the population , fill half the gulf of mexico with crude , battle the geophysical aspects of the planet or have to come to grips with some new virus .
only the knowledge and technology , we gain from such conflicts , are of interest to her , human hardship and suffering is all part of her plan .
future evolution for humans nature and humanity have been locked into an evolutionary symbiosis since the first life began , and will continue until an unconscious nature transforms into a conscious being through an ongoing and yet incomplete process .
this transition , as it takes place , may well be responsible for the turmoil we find ourselves experiencing today .
nature unleashed and no longer bound by the constraints imposed by ordinary evolution is free to explore multitudes of new avenues .
there are however new limitations which require nature to ever push at the edges of the envelope of her new found freedom through mankind , by necessity the transition from nature to man needs to be swift for there are many pitfalls .
we are suffering through them at the present and will continue to do so until we gain the maturity and insight necessary to bring equilibrium back to the planet .
this fact in itself accounts for our accelerated mental evolution .
nature has needed and encouraged a diverse human population to drive technology forward .
the billions of minions laboring in obscurity make it possible to generate the wealth both human and technical necessary to pursue scientific research in the crusade to further mankind 's knowledge and evolution .
even these brilliant individuals diligently laboring to expand the edges of their chosen disciplines probably have n't paused for a moment to ponder if just maybe there was something of a higher order nudging them along , if they do it is attributed to some far off deity not nature .
we are the first generation to become fully cognizant of the possible threats posed from beyond it is what prompted me to devise this theory , now i envision many others as well .
as i write , dedicated men and women study the heavens for the errant object that could one day become a threat to our planet .
they like the other billions on earth probably have n't the faintest idea that they are the culmination of all natures efforts , the tip of the spear in all of evolution .
that she is in the process of giving over the reins so humankind can speed up evolution creating for nature new species and maybe even android machines which can withstand the rigors of interstellar space travel and be tailored to survive and flourish in environments where present day life can not .
man is a reflection of his creator and has been instilled with natures lust for the expansion of life .
when we are finally successful think of what a coup it will be not just for humans , but for nature as a whole .
yet , as it was in the beginning most of us will just live , reproduce , and die never really fully cognizant of who we are , where we came from , or why we are here .
our species is still filled with hubris and continues to blindly take all the credit , boasting we have overcome , tamed , and beaten nature .
she hasnt been beaten and behind the scenes , remains in charge .
nature would have preferred to invest in man the knowledge of her intended purpose , long ago , but it is n't within the realm of her abilities .
nature can only act within biological constraints and although she has worked as fast and with all the tools available it has taken her millions of years to evolve a creature with the ability to communicate with her .
she did it the only way she can , by providing us with the capacity to explore , reason , and question so in due course we will figure it out for ourselves .
as our reward , she is poised to give man her most precious resource , the creation of life both biological and mechanical .
this step is both logical and necessary as we go forward into interstellar space .
in coming generations , as we become proficient in our abilities to manipulate life and create new species , just maybe then we will view ourselves as dignified members of nature .
meddlers in time the cockatoo river incident wayne watson smashwords edition copyright 2010 smashwords edition , license notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be resold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then you should return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
all characters appearing in this work are fictitious .
any resemblance to real persons , living or otherwise able to take legal action against me , is purely coincidental .
all the names were pulled out of my memory and applied more or less at random .
you ai n't that character just because you share a first name and a trade .
that 's my story and i 'm sticking to it .
the cockatoo river incident prelude throughout the empire of man there are many great memorials to the fallen .
on the planet of yalumba there is one of the smallest , yet the events leading to its creation , history has shown to be the most pivotal in the course of the empire .
in the ikuntji province , exactly 847 meters from the cockatoo river mission bell tower , there is a small knoll .
the grape vines now have been cleared for 200 meters around .
circling the top is a simple tall hedge of acacia .
within the hedge is a circular grass lawn .
around the border of this lawn are 47 simple crosses half a meter high and iridium plated .
at the center of the lawn are sixteen similar but smaller crosses , grouped together in four rows of four .
the single gateway of wrought iron has no decoration but a single word .
'duty ' this is the story of the events leading to what is now known as 'the cockatoo river incident ' .
the day the empire realized that 'live and let live ' was no longer an option ... cockatoo river incident memorial jenny and wayne quietly walked out of the inner circle of the memorial a place where few were ever permitted to stand upon the lovingly cared for lawns .
they took up position in front of the imperial flag and saluted as it was lowered to the strains of the last post .
as the guard party marched off towards the mission , they stood for a while in silent contemplation .
never forget how much worse it would have been without you , '' said wayne .
i tell myself that every time i think about it .
not that it helps much ... '' transit station 21 years previous empire time line i 've done some weird shit , but this beats it all , said jenny now inhabiting a four year old child 's version of her body .
this is just like having the baby sister i always wanted , said sonja laughingly , picking jenny up and spinning her around .
you need to find a man and make babies , said jenny .
now put me the hell down before i get in character and pee all over you .
transit station ready room good luck things are going to be a bit hairy until the marines take control , '' said wayne .
jenny waited next to the portal area dressed in flimsy silk and makeup this prostitute 's garb looking disturbingly incongruous on her young body .
i plan to act like my apparent age and hide under the bed i hope those marines are n't too trigger happy .
no worries there those boys like to take slavers alive all the better for tossing out the airlock .
gate in ten seconds said sonja .
time to get in character .
jenny stepped through to the empty captain 's cabin of the 'golden caravan ' .
heavy destroyer 'wotan 's fury ' 'four hour warning normal space in four hours ' sounded the intercom .
captain jamieson scanned his messages , then took a quick shower and put on a fresh uniform along with the now traditional splash of old spice .
time for a quick tour about the ship before taking the helm for the battle .
outside his cabin , the duty officer was waiting .
what 's on the trouble sheet ?
said captain jamieson .
two marines on the sick list i gather they got carried away with close quarters training , sir , said ensign johnson .
eichmanns ?
aye sir .
no doubt lieutenant eichmann has already dealt with them , thought wayne .
engineering ?
nothing operational sir , said johnson , handing over a tablet .
wayne scrolled down a list of minor faults all under action .
just the usual house keeping repairs .
he handed the tablet back ok commanders brief at minus three hours dismissed .
aye sir , said the ensign , saluting .
forty minutes for a bit of breakfast before the final brief .
heavy destroyer 'wotan 's fury ' cic 'one hour warning all hands secure for n space running ' announced the intercom .
call it , '' said jamieson .
nav all ships on station . ''
tac prox shows one megatonne plus , a capital ship , four frigates and multiple minor traces . ''
guns all systems on line and charged .
drive grav on stand by , tractors nominal .
damage standing by .
security standing by .
last comfort call , '' said the captain .
tac call on status change .
tac aye trace firming confirm 'scimitar ' class cruiser and eight contacts at minus 10,000 tonnes .
their sub space proximity array was one of the major factors in free company wotan 's fury 's success .
the best anyone else possessed was a detector that would only work a few seconds before exiting sub space and that was more than most had .
as they edged closer to the exit point , the information built up tonnage , vector and numbers .
'all hands minutes one to n space . '
then it was time and they crossed the threshold in to normal space .
the collision alert klaxon sounded they had exited exactly on course dead astern of the escort cruiser and closing fast .
guns i have a firing solution .
engage 90 , '' said jamieson , directing the gunnery officer to fire as soon as the hit probability reached 90 percent .
additional detail was streaming onto his tac screen battles were won by sensors more than guns and the 'fury ' had the very best .
aspect change targets capacitors ramping . ''
guns hold , '' said jamieson , taking a calculated gamble he wanted to let the enemy capacitors charge up , as they would produce considerable secondary damage if hit .
in any case he was still well out of their range and it took time to swing a cruiser about to use its main spinal mount .
fifteen seconds later he said weapons free , '' and the quick firing batteries flashed out their rods of uv laser energy .
tac i have secondarys on the target low level emp and out gassing . ''
a good first strike and as with most fights in the real world the one that got the first solid blow in won .
continue until destroyed with two turrets all other turrets target those frigates , '' said jamieson .
cutters you are clear to engage .
the six ships cutters went to full speed and rapidly closed on the now seriously damaged cruiser .
with the cutters away , they began to decelerate heavily , not wanting to overshoot .
now only several hundred kilometers out , 'fury 's ' secondary mounts added their fire to battle , targeting individual guns and sensor arrays .
the two main turrets also shifted to suppressive fire , trading intensity for rate of fire .
each time the cruiser got a shot away , the gun firing was pinpointed and raked with fire .
two cutters sped directly in , traveling along the same axis and slightly below the 'fury 's ' outgoing fire .
at 20 kilometers range they both released a salvo of torpedoes and broke off at maximum power .
obscured from the cruisers few remaining sensors by the laser energy and debris , the six torpedoes closed the gap in 30 seconds , decelerating hard just before striking the hull , where their armored nose cones tore through the relatively thin hull plating like needles .
five of the six five kilotonne warheads survived the impact and detonated six seconds after impact , tearing the cruiser to pieces .
ok , settle down we are still in the fight all batteries engage those frigates .
when they are dead , target the small craft at will .
tac what have we got coming ? ''
said jamieson .
hostiles inbound battle group in effective range in six point five hours .
two cruisers , scimitar class , five unidentified destroyers , seven frigates and twenty minor contacts .
call the cutters back .
sailing master once those frigates are slagged or gone put us in a blocking position to hold off that task force . ''
leaving his officers to continue the battle , jamieson turned his attention to the data feed from his frigate 'jolly roger ' .
control room frigate 'jolly roger' free company wotan 's fury the ship 's intercom sounded 'one hour warning all hands secure for n space running . '
commander hendrik glanced at his readouts , in particular the subspace mass detectors which were now starting to register the presence of his prey a huge 'caravan ' class bulk freighter .
also on his screen were other vessels a cruiser and four frigates but these were for 'wotan 's fury ' and the other frigate 'blackbeard ' to deal with .
this was always the worst time the waiting just before exiting sub space .
but at least he had the advantage of a sub space detector far in advance of anything else found in this time .
the minutes counted down seemingly getting faster as the time approached .
then there was no time left for a last check of all stations and the 'jolly roger ' was in normal space now the work really started .
space battles are won and lost by intelligence .
whose ship had the best sensor arrays , signal processors and fire control and more importantly the advantage of surprise .
the small flotilla had used the advantage of their sub space instruments to come into normal space behind the freighter and her escorts where their sensors were at their least effective .
before the cruiser had even gotten close to a firing solution , captain jamieson 's gunners were pouring fire into the cruiser , while the 'blackbeard ' held off two of the escorting frigates with equally devastating fire .
hendrik directed his gunners to support the other two vessels as he closed on the freighter and gave the order for his cutters to start their runs .
at 50 kilometers out , he directed the secondary weapons operators to start burning out the freighters sensors and communications .
as he did so , a violent flare of incandescent light caused the camera screen to momentarily flare out , telling him a torpedo had taken out the cruiser with a nuke something they seldom used , being in the business of taking prizes .
glancing to the xo 's screen , he saw tracery indicating that the 'fury ' had already redirected its quick firing lasers to the remaining escorts .
now they were clear to grapple with the freighter and board .
as the sailing master took the frigate in , commander hendrik watched the teams from the cutters burning through the hull , forcing an entry for the heavy infantry in their active armor .
they would be creating a diversion for the main thrust , consisting of hendrik 's light infantry who enter through a soft seal .
as the frigate approached the hull , the remora docking pod locked into position on their ventral aspect .
the sailing master would close the last few meters at low speed , driving this hardened cylinder , which looked like the end of a hypodermic needle , through the hull plating .
a crushable collar filled with expanding sealant would caulk the breach .
a faint shudder told them that the hull had made contact .
mag grav locks engaged sir , said the remora operator .
we have soft seal .
he activated the hydraulic rams that would clear the penetrator and deployed the cutter arms .
where needed , cutting lasers would slice through plates , wreckage and bulkheads .
while it is true that most thing on board ship do not react well to gunfire or cutter beams , it is also true that wherever possible , such items are kept away from the outer hull wall .
scutters away , '' said the operator , as he released an array of small camera robots to scout the ship .
these would race along the corridors mapping the way , dropping remote sensors and repeater stations generally providing intelligence for the assault force .
with the way clear , lieutenant tom phillips led his marines into the 'golden caravan ' .
they wanted to kill a few slavers before heavy infantry got them first .
they had barely started moving towards the ships bridge when the hull shivered .
the heavy infantry commander called over the comm explosion in engineering looks like they had the tractors wired to blow damned fools went up with the engines .
hendrik glanced to the tac officer , who anticipated his query sir grav drive still running tractor field died when that explosion went off . ''
without hesitation hendrik said combat engineers topside get us bonded to their hull , we will take the freighter under our power .
as soon as we have control , slave their grav drive to our control move it people , we have a hostile task force just hours out and i 'm not letting this prize get away . ''
while the freighter was huge , the tractors in hendrik 's frigate were larger than those used by the freighter , being rated to do exactly this task or to move the frigate faster than most naval shipping in this time .
before the marines had finished beating their way to the c c , the ship 's engineers had attached bonding and anchor cables to the hull , securing their ship and were running cable to engineering in order to take control of the freighter 's grav drives .
bridge secure sir . ''
said lt. phillips .
two walking wounded being evac 'd back now , seventeen prisoners secured .
we are ready to receive the prize crew now . ''
good work lieutenant sondes show activity in cargo bay 18 video and detectors indicates a guard room and a huge life reading .
you will send a section and investigate further . ''
aye sir phillips out . ''
tom 's section arrived moments before the heavy infantry and a sensor team .
the guard room was locked , so tom ordered the section sergeant to have a mech open it up .
the mechanized marine soon had the door destroyed with his power axe , to reveal three cowering guards .
i can smell slaver scum even through this suit , '' said the marine corporal .
out now , '' shouted the sergeant .
on the fucking deck you crapheads know the drill .
out or he drags you and that exoskeleton is known to pull arms and legs off . ''
the three guards scurried out of the room and lay prone on the deck , while tom 's men shackled them and dragged them off to join the other prisoners .
tom waved the specialists over to start sweeping .
immediately the team leader confirmed the scutter 's life reading .
sir , you got thousands behind that bulkhead i think we got a slave cargo here . ''
why do you say slaves specialist ? ''
sir , if they was troops , our asses would have been kicked of this ship and you can only pack troops or slaves in that tight . ''
good point , '' said tom with a grin , why do n't you take a look on that monitor in the guard room ? ''
the specialist gave to room a last sweep and moved in to look at the pickup .
the horrified look on his face told tom all he needed to know .
all of you go in one by one and take a look at that monitor move . ''
sir we have to get them out of there now , '' said a shocked looking young marine who was n't quite as worldly as he had previously thought .
negative , '' said tom .
this is a specialist job turn them loose now and we will never get this ship ready to jump .
they have lasted this long they can hold on a little longer .
best you all can do is get this ship swept , secured and out of here so we can do something for these folks .
now proceed with your sweeps sergeant jorgenson you are in command i have to brief the skipper get to it . ''
tom wanted to be nearby when the detector teams swept the officers quarters .
the real reason for this mission , known only to jamieson and himself was there .
got a ping low level , though could be some attenuation through these soundproofed partitions . ''
ok in you go i got your back . ''
they ai n't paying me enough for this shit . ''
just get your wide ass in there private . ''
under the bed corporal reading looks like its a kid . ''
hey it is a kid come on out little girl we are here to help you ah crap she goddamn bit me ! ''
well do n't try grab her lift the bed off ... oh sweet mary and jesus ... sir sir you got ta see this . ''
tom strode into the room what 's all the fuss ... oh my '' this part tom did n't know about .
before him was jenny dressed up in transparent silk , makeup and perfume not that he had n't seen that before but not when she was in a four year olds body .
his face hardened .
he tapped at his wrist comm .
sir are you receiving my helmcam ?
you may want this as evidence .
yes sir , in the captain 's quarters .
very well sir , phillips out . ''
he turned to the two marines .
you two hold your position here .
guard this girl until an evac team relieves you , and then continue with your sweeps . ''
aye sir , '' said the two marines , snapping to attention .
jenny sat on the edge of the bed .
can i go home now ? ''
wayne had gotten a coded message regarding jenny 's successful insertion and feeling a lot happier now , although he would not relax until they were in subspace on route to the rendezvous point .
five still glowing hulks drifted in near space and the smaller craft were mostly debris clouds .
his flotilla had only sustained superficial sensor damage and no hull breaches .
guns , sir i have a solution on the final hostile .
he will in range for another twelve minutes at current course and vector . ''
you will fire 17 volleys with the x turret , aiming to narrowly miss the 18th volley will be aimed to destroy him . ''
aye sir , '' said the weapons officer , trying not to sound puzzled at this strange request .
we have a task force headed our way we may have to fight '' said jamieson .
let 's not give them an indication of how good our gunnery really is carry on . ''
jamieson 's message screen flashed .
he glanced at it , and then took a few seconds to read it more thoroughly .
hendrik 's techs had gotten the freighter 's computer back on line and brought up the manifest .
'golden caravan ' had over five thousand slaves on board and was carrying rations for 20 days .
with the rendezvous point 21 days out at their estimated speed and the next friendly planet another ten days from there , they would have a serious shortfall .
even the emergency rations carried by 'fury ' would n't go far amongst those numbers .
he knew from experience that slave rations were , at best , minimal and could n't be stretched very far .
wayne called the sailing master over and pointed at the message .
lt .
commander jessie burling did n't need to use a tablet to do the numbers .
she thought for a few seconds and said , transfer as much mass as you can to the freighter including all the cutters loaded with our reserve stores and we can do a speed run to abilene , pick up stores and make the rendezvous point in 28 days , allowing two days to load . ''
set the course commander , '' said jamieson .
he started keying codes into his panel qm load all reserve foodstuffs for transfer to the prize . ''
engineering get a reclamation team and stores onto the prize have them take our synthesizer kit . ''
transport stand by for cross loading all cutters to remain on that freighter for the jump . ''
he then called the xo over .
have the chief of the boat organize a contact team and prepare to receive casualties .
wayne knew that many of the slaves would be in poor condition .
the crows like to condition their new captives by having a few die in transit it let them know how low their lives were regarded .
these detail attended to , he turned his attention to the approaching task force .
time to arrange a little surprise for them .
grav drive is synched sir , but those tractors are beyond repair .
they used a shaped charge on the field generator casing we are going to have to drag this bucket all the way back , '' reported the damage control chief .
very well master chief we are under way now attend to the auxiliaries you have five thousand refugees on that ship and they will need all the facilities that you can rig and repair to survive hendrik out . ''
ok you idlers , you heard the skipper lets get the reclamation on this piece of junk working like it never has before which should n't be too hard .
tom phillips stalked through the assembled ranks of the captives .
unsurprisingly , none would admit to being captain of this freighter with it 's cargo of misery .
amongst the slave trustees who did the scut work on the ship , he saw what he was looking for and gave a slight nod of his head .
two marine guards pounced on the man indicated and dragged him aside .
slaves , no matter how favored , did not have well manicured nails , a lack of calluses or the marks of rings on their fingers .
tom turned to the nearest prisoner who is he ?
when the prisoner remained silent , tom said , throw him out the nearest airlock .
the marines had been hoping for this and their sergeant pointed to two troopers who dragged the stunned slaver away .
tom grabbed another captive and simply glared at him .
noble sire he is our captain .
i can see that your captain does not want to want to be identified my men found a young slave girl in his stateroom a very young girl .
tom watched the assembled captives as they looked away from the doomed captain it looked like they were not surprised to hear this .
he let them consider what there fate would be for a minute longer , and then made an announcement that shocked them all .
my orders are to put you on a shuttle and return you to your fleet which is approaching now .
this was the last thing they were expecting imperials were reputed to show no mercy towards slavers indeed , this is what would have happened if the direct order of captain jamieson had not said otherwise .
except your captain , said tom .
he goes out the airlock fit him with a suit and throw him out .
the marines herded those spared to the hanger bay where they were loaded onto a shuttle and sent on their way , the younger marines shaking their heads at this decision .
the senior ranks were not bothered .
they had a fair idea what captain jamieson was up to .
sir we will be at tractor velocity in two minutes , said the sailing master .
engage tractors at start velocity , said hendrik .
he knew without checking that the enemy fleet was 90 minutes away and that the tractors would now give them plus vector with an estimated fifteen minutes lead until they were safe in subspace .
'fury ' had already fallen back to prepare to give covering fire , although they were reluctant to give away their targeting abilities , so were holding fire .
the flotilla 's lighters and cutters had transferred all of the reserve store to the freighter and the logistics people were trying to sort out exactly what stores were on board a huge task on a ship of this size .
they had already discovered that the manifest was far from accurate or complete .
it looked like a lot of loot gained when the slaves were taken had been undeclared .
the shuttle full of captives was now standing off the point cruiser .
no doubt the crows were trying to decide if the persons on board had loaded with viruses and were scanning for radiological or explosive contents .
crow paranoia had worked for the free company yet again , as somebody made the decision to destroy the shuttle .
a laser flareed briefly , then disappeared into a white flash as it hit jamieson 's package and sent the d t mix hidden in the shuttle 's water tanks into fusion .
aspect change sir we have three hostiles drifting unpowered the point cruiser and two frigates the rest of the formation is starting to disperse .
signal 'wotan 's fury ' and synch our confirmed jump time also congratulate captain jamieson on his trap .
aye sir , message sent .
advise engineering of our jump time and that they have my permission to continue working on the hull .
the fitters , welders and techs would like that 'outside ' work in subspace rated maximum hazard pay .
all away , sir and hostiles still 55 minutes out of range .
their range , said jamieson , resisting the strong temptation to send a few parting volleys .
all hands prepare for subspace running sailing master the helm is yours .
safely transitioned , he gave the order to stand down from general quarters .
commander hendrik 's troubles would now be beginning .
prize ship 'golden caravan ' subspace .
while the rest of the free company would be easing into a relatively relaxed drag through subspace , the prize crew would be preparing for a far less pleasant journey to the rendezvous point .
hendrik and his officers knew from experience that they just could n't let the slaves out their release would have to be carefully managed those who had been recently taken into slavery most of them would be relatively easy , but those who had been slaves for generations would be far more difficult to manage .
there is an ancient saying 'you can take the farm boy off the farm , but ca n't take the farm out of the farm boy . '
this ran true with slaves too .
with all the ship 's officers tied up directing repairs and organizing the prize , the task of liaising with the slaves fell to lt tom phillips , aided by a warrant officer , contact specialist guiardio rameraiz .
records such as they are show this hold to contain 2000 persons captured in a colony raid , sir .
this is why they are in such filthy conditions this trip is part of their slave conditioning .
they will be stressed , half starved and kept cold and dirty to break down their spirits , the crows like to let the older and weaker ones die and leave the bodies in there , as part of the process .
sir , we let them out and they will tear the ship apart looking for crows and trustees so here is the best way to proceed ... tom switched on the audio and video feed to the hold 's announcement system .
this is lieutenant tom phillips , free company 'wotan 's fury ' .
acting under an imperial warrant , we have seized this vessel from the hegemony and claim her as a prize of battle .
we are currently in subspace and are in the process of refitting this vessel in order to get you into some decent living conditions .
please bear with us as we complete this work and repair battle damage and we will get you all out of there as soon as practical .
please get your sick or injured ready to move out we have a surgeon on board and pick representatives to assist us with helping you .
times are going to still be tough and we will all be getting a little hungry before long , but you are no longer slaves .
welcome back , citizens .
that was good sir , now we give them ten minutes and go in with a squad and meet them face to face .
if the view on the monitor looked bad , inside the slaves hold was several orders of magnitude worse the stench of excrement and death was appalling especially to career spacers who are renowned for being meticulous in their hygiene .
this was all deliberate keeping new captives naked , degraded and in filth all designed to break down their spirit .
these were recent captives and had not yet been broken .
a group of three approached tom and his men , while the crowd looked on they walked tall , carrying themselves with dignity despite their nakedness and dirt .
i am colony leader shannon antares , ics grade six lieutenant , you and your troops have our profound thanks for your rescue .
what may we do to assist you ?
firstly , we will see to your immediate medical needs .
i need you to keep order in here you are , unfortunately , going to have to remain in here for a while longer although we can move the sick out now .
can you have any engineers , or those with maintenance experience assist us with getting some sanitation in here ?
the colony leader nodded to one of her assistants who went off to gather a work party .
by now , tom had sized up the mood of the freed slaves .
i will open the compartment doors , but please have your people remain in here unless involved in a work detail .
our marines are searching the ship for any crew we may have missed and i do n't want any of you getting mistaken for them and getting tossed out the nearest airlock .
tom 's comm buzzed , signaling work details wanting clearance to enter .
lt. phillips to ops open the main hatchway to bay five and turn all services on .
colony leader , we need to remove your dead .
they will be frozen for the meantime and we can hold a service for the dead when we get to our destination if your people could assist with identification , that would be helpful .
of course , sir .
she lowered her voice the former crew of this ship ?
all dead we do n't take slavers prisoner , replied tom .
good i will pass that on to my people .
you might pass on that we spaced the captain in a fully operational suit .
thank you sir !
the constant drone of the ventilation fans changed pitch , as one of the operations team found the control and boosted the airflow to vent the foul air and the lighting intensity started to increase .
ops and the fitters had already unlocked potable water cocks and turned on the showers and toilets , while logistics were tracking down a long list of supplies , such as soap , toiletries , cups , bowls and clothing .
at least they would have water and sanitation now .
when the area was cleaned up , they could start assembling the bunks stowed in a now unlocked adjacent storeroom .
a runner arrived and saluted tom .
sir , quartermasters compliments and can you please report to ops and help them out with the manifest ?
sir , they ca n't make heads or tails of half of it .
colony leader , i will leave warrant officer guiardio rameraiz here with you to liaise i have to go help find some of these stores your people need .
when we get them sorted , i want to do a full debrief with you , said tom .
thank you and all your people again lieutenant and i hope to pass on my compliments to your commanding officer in person soon .
you will get to meet captain jamieson in about 28 days at our rendezvous colony leader , from what i have seen you have done an outstanding job of leading your people though the worst of times .
tom saluted her and left , following the runner to the operations control room .
guiardio 's nose wrinkled and he walked over to the sanitation area a collection of plastic pails and a waste hopper to empty them into .
he took his belt knife and put the point of the blade on a nearby pipe , then put his ear to the tang .
sheathing the knife , he called the tech working in the guard room .
johnny turn the damn waste vents on .
the crows , in their perversity , had shut down the waste vent fans , in order to cause more of a stench as if not supplying water for cleaning their filthy hole in the deck excuses for toilets was not enough .
now to find a cleaning stores locker .
there would be one near here , as the slaves last task on board ship would be to clean this fetid hold .
baklava 1200 kg what that means is one day 's more food , said tom .
now , let 's see what else we can find in this manifest .
when the locusts raided that colony , they would have taken all their stores as well .
we are still seven days subsistence rations short .
sir , the drive generator is beyond repair , all the ancillaries are ok. good news is that we can replace it with a caterpillar ftld 4 and those are easy to pick up even out at the frontier .
power grid is in good shape and life support is in fair shape too , but could use some work to get it running at capacity looks like this is a fairly new ship and the crows have n't screwed it up too badly yet .
qm is still trying to sort the stores , sir techs are having some trouble interfacing a translator with their gui .
the os is written in something called 'french ' , then translated into crow scribbles ...
yes , spare me the technicalities , said commander hendrik .
what is your progress locating foodstuffs ?
sorry sir , lt phillips is the only one who can really read that manifest and so far he has identified additional three days rations , at subsistence levels .
sir , given the condition of our refugees , we can expect a two to five percent mortality rate at those levels , said the ship 's surgeon .
if they seized that colony 's stores , then there is a high probability that their emergency rations are somewhere on board find them , said hendrik .
sir , i believe that we have the hardware to rig an algeprote processor .
that stuff tastes like shit , but it will sustain life , said the surgeon .
then get a team on it in fact start looking for one on board .
i recall the crows use such things to feed their slaves .
if that is all , back to your posts .
one small bit of good news sir we located a consignment of coffee .
the head chef has tested it and pronounced it good .
hendrik gave a small smile .
splendid have some sent up to control asap .
you will be needing it .
as the section heads left , hendrik stretched out in his chair .
it had been a full on 27 hours since taking this freighter and there was still a lot of work to be done .
while the ship was in a fair state of repair now and steadily improving , the human cargo was proving troublesome .
not the first refugees released they were now almost self sufficient .
all they really needed was their freedom and dignity returned .
the other 3,000 were more problematic .
about 2000 of them had been broken to slavery and were , to say the least , dysfunctional .
they were behaving like battery hens released from their cages huddling in the corners , refusing to believe they were free .
they would have to be transported to one of the empires rehabilitation centers where they could be returned to functioning .
even worse were the remaining thousand .
they were born into slavery and knew no other existence .
nor could they comprehend one .
they were on lock down and would remain so until the crew 's specialists could determine what to do with them .
right now , they were as dangerous to the crew and the other slaves as their masters .
then there was one who was outside of these groups .
the young girl found in the late captain 's cabin .
she was definitely unbroken and unharmed , but none of the other captives knew of her .
careful questioning by the surgeon had determined that she was the sole survivor of a pirate raid on an outie transport .
other than that all they knew was that she was about three four years old and named jennifer devries .
the surgeons team had taken a shine to here and had her quartered in sick bay .
by all accounts she kept quiet , stayed out of the way and was happy to entertain herself on one of the ships information terminals .
hendrik saw no reason to change these arrangements .
she could stay there until they off loaded the former colonists at the yalumba system in ten weeks .
a drink ?
said captain hendrik .
brandy and soda , thank you , said colony leader antares .
my apologies for taking this long to have this meeting , said hendrik , handing her a tall glass .
before i start asking questions , i 'm sure you have a few you would like answered .
i do , sir firstly , what are your intentions with my people ? we would like to know where we are going .
firstly , we are getting far away for the system where we took this ship 21 days out to an uninhabited system .
at this point we rendezvous with our other two ships which have gone on ahead for supplies real food , not krats .
from there , to the frontier for more provisions and on to the yalumba system , where we plan to land your colonists .
if you want to establish a colony there , this is a place with plenty of room they have only been inhabited about 120 years .
not what we really wanted when we set out , but considering the circumstances i think my people will be glad to take the second chance although we have no capital now .
you still have most of your colony stores we have no salvage claim on the property of imperial citizens and the empire is quite helpful with distressed colonists .
of course they do n't tell you that when you set out i 'm sure you understand why .
yes , quite , '' she acknowledged .
although i wish we were in a position to repay you debts must be paid .
hendrik gave dismissive gesture with his raised glass .
the empire will also compensate us for our efforts consider the account settled in full .
well then this ics g6 is learning a bit about the empire today .
yes , now i would like to know more about how you came to be in this most unfortunate situation .
we started out four years ago , to set up an independent colony deep in what was meant to be the neutral zone .
following typical procedures , the destination planet had been seeded with terran flora and fauna , the lz had been leveled and utility structures built in advance by autonomous robotics .
we set down with no great dramas and for three years carried on setting up a colony , in textbook manner .
our only contact with the outside being an annual visit from an imperial scout ship .
about a month ago i ca n't be sure of time , as we have had no way of measuring it we were in the middle of harvest .
during the mid afternoon , we lost our satellite and comms .
shortly after that , four drop ships landed on the outskirts of the settlement and we were attacked by two companies of light infantry with armor and gunship support .
we were systematically split up and were unable to mount a meaningful defense .
they set up a stockade and processed us prior to loading everyone onto a lighter .
while this was going on and for several days after the colony was systematically stripped of anything of value , she paused and took a deep drink .
that sounded to be a more professional attack than is usual for raiders they are usually hit run grab a few easy captives , said hendrik , passing across the brandy and the soda siphon .
captain that was a well armed , trained and disciplined specialist force if ever i saw one .
they were not raiders they were crow elite infantry .
i would say that they had carried out this same type of operation on more than a few occasions they were total professionals .
no doubt naval intelligence is going to want to go over this with you and your colonists later but i agree with your assessment .
we have heard rumors of such a unit .
now to the point of your colony stores did you have the standard emergency reserve rations ?
shannon grimaced .
we lived on them for two weeks before we were transferred onto this ship .
bad as krats are , they were better than the crud the crows ration slaves .
i ca n't be sure how much is left the main store was destroyed when a couple of my people holed up in there to make a stand .
every little helps we are a few days short of providing a subsistence ration , but our surgeon says we will cope if we keep the fit and able bodied a little short , to boost the children and sick list 's rations up to minimum .
for what its worth , all my crew have volunteered to go on the same ration , to keep those children and pregnant women fed .
for the first time in the ordeal , shannon broke down and burst into tears , repeating , bless you bless you all .
hendrik poured another large brandy this time being rather sparing with the soda siphon .
at least we have plenty of drink our supposedly teetotal friends had a sizable cache of contraband on board i can always count on my marines to locate the booze first .
his attempt at a joke stopped the tears and he passed her a clean handkerchief .
we found these too , he said , sliding a humidor of cigars across the table .
they lit cigars and smoked for a few minutes .
hendrik continues with his questioning .
what do you know of the other captives on board ?
all i know is what your crew has mentioned that there are others on board .
your people do n't give much away .
it may be possible that some of these slaves were involved in the raid on your colony as laborers i thought it best to segregate your people from them .
a sound move , sir they would tear them to pieces if they recognized any of them .
her face darkened , as she recalled the stockade and the taunts of the crows laborers .
they had not realized that they were second or more generation slaves born menials although they were way higher up the pecking order than taken slaves .
quite so , best we let naval intelligence determine if there is a case against any of them .
that 's better , said tom , as the hot , stuffy air in the ops room started to cool .
a fitter emerged from underneath the console .
that one was easy , sir the fire baffle was fitted the wrong way around .
you had zero airflow we are finding a lot of stuff like this i hope the crows build their warships this badly .
specialist , i just wish this inventory problem was that easy to fix , said tom , getting up and stretching .
he had spent almost all of the last 48 hours at the console trying to locate food amongst the vast cargo bays .
almost all of the cargo was listed by destination , not contents .
so far they had located a cube of baklava by luck and another of canned cheese by physically searching .
the young fitter paused , then said , sir , if it 's not a dumb question have you tried scanning the cargo with thermals ?
no , said tom .
we just used life detectors but not thermals why do you ask ?
well , sir , i had the thought that if there were any reffer cubes amongst the cargo , they would probably contain food they will show up a couple of degrees warmer than ambient from the inbuilt heat pumps .
because of that , they are always top stow , so should be easy to locate .
tom turned away from his screen , slapped his hand against his forehead then picked up a handset .
all search teams have one person switch to thermal and scan the top stowed containers you are looking for cubes above ambient .
open those and report in .
several minutes later , one of the teams reported in .
jackpot , sir , found one full of frozen lamb , going by the pictures on the boxes inside tell cookie to heat up his stew pot .
copy did you get that qm ?
i did , lieutenant that was some inspired thinking for a marine .
ca n't take the credit , qm that was one of sandy 's fitters .
who will now have all the troops lining up to buy him a beer i 'm sending a work party down and getting the cooks back in the galley now qm out .
tom turned to the sheepish looking fitter .
have your crew chief call me that earns you a bonus .
aye sir , he said , saluted and gathered up his tools .
he had a full shifts work ahead but now had the prospect of a hot meal .
after what seemed like an endless procession through sick bay , the medical team was finally finished for now .
they had thankfully received the latest news that frozen food had been located and there was more than enough for this leg of the journey .
while there was little risk of real starvation , the boost to morale was important to all aboard more so to the newly freed refugees .
lieutenant lillian williams , the ships surgeon , finished looking over the chef 's menus and approved them .
people kept on a diet of concentrated rations and a minimum energy one at that had to be reintroduced to real food .
the last task of her watch completed , she handed over to the senior med tech , and then turned her attention to a small figure at a spare terminal .
young lady , i think you have had enough reading for one day look at the time now it 's off to bed for you .
jenny smiled at the surgeon and hurried off into her cabin an appropriated room in sick bay .
lillian smiled the sight of the diminutive figure bringing back memories of her own children , long grown up now .
her staff had taken it upon themselves to look after this one child unlike the colonists and the other ex slaves , this one had nobody .
gentle probing had revealed that her full name was jennifer devries and she was space born , most probably to one of the independent freighter transports that plied its trade about the outer colonies .
attempts to find out more just got 'they are all gone now ' from her .
these freighters operating on the fringes were the usual prey of pirates and surviving crew were often sold to crow slavers .
still here ?
said tom .
if you are finishing soon , the wardroom bar is open , if you fancy a drink ?
i just need to tuck our guest in say you found her , come in and say hello .
they entered jenny 's room .
the plain sick room had emptied of diagnostic equipment , and been decorated with a few personal items from the medical team a colorful hand made blanket and a stuffed toy bear and a locker had been fitted .
she was already curled up in her bed .
one of the crew had programmed the ships tailor module to produce a miniature set of uniform for her and this was draped over the back of a chair .
hello , said jenny .
i remember you .
yes , said tom .
i wanted to come and see you earlier , but we have been very busy fixing this ship .
i know .
everybody says that the cockroaches do n't make ships worth a damn .
lillian snorted at this remark out of such a small mouth and tom gave a chuckle .
well , we make much better ships good ships like your people 's ones .
now that i remember i brought you some pictures for you wall , like i promised , lillian unfolded her tablet and tapped the screen .
these are pictures from my little girl 's home on yalumba she is the assistant winemaker at the cockatoo river mission she has a daughter about your age , jennifer .
the pict wall changed from mirror to window and now displayed an image of a pleasant , sunny river valley , with vineyards , fields and a winding oxbow river .
cattle and sheep grazed and flocks of large birds flew about .
all of the better appointed ships had these pict walls that gave the illusion of space .
despite what many would say about being born to live in space , all well adjusted people needed space and the more the better on board ship .
i do n't like planets , said jenny , but that looks like a nice one .
the scene faded to one of a courtyard in a large adobe compound , with children playing .
good night dear , said lillian , setting the glow panels to auto dim .
the pict wall detected the change in ambient light and set it 's scene to dusk , lowering the sounds .
i will be watching you on my comm and the duty medic is just down the corridor see you in the morning .
goodnight , said the little girl , yawning , as the two officers left for the wardroom .
what did you pick up ?
said lillian .
i concur with your findings accent and speech of the travelers .
she is ship born and that will is helping her to adjust .
how is that ?
they have a wider idea of 'family' the crew is family not a couple of individuals .
we have taken her into our crew , thus our family .
this is going to be a problem when we have to let her go .
it does n't need to be , said tom .
you have inadvertently or not started the process .
it would be inadvertently please elaborate .
cockatoo river mission is also an orphanage for girls and a fine one there are more than a few of our crew that call that place home .
myself included , said lillian .
lets start getting her ready for that a much better idea than being lumped in with a lot of colonists , good people though they are .
i 'm sure my daughter will help and the wolf has contacts all over that planet i ca n't see him objecting .
no , the boss will usually go along with a good idea now whose round is it ?
jenny closed her eyes feigning sleep and reflected on the last couple of days .
playing the part of being a distressed three year old had not been hard .
what was difficult was pretending to need the normal amount of sleep of a child her apparent age .
even though the child 's body required more than an adult , it had been enhanced and could easily get by on five or six hours sleep .
however , this had been planned for and jenny was able to run an auto hypnosis sequence that put her to sleep .
while she had spent some time in the empire , to get familiar with speech , common technology and life on a spaceship , there was a vast amount of knowledge she wished to acquire .
the data terminal was a good place to start and the busy crew was glad that she could entertain herself quietly at the terminal , without paying much attention to what she was reading .
most crew was involved in furthering their education while passing time in subspace and there was an eclectic range of information in the ship 's library .
the next step was to acquire a tablet , which should not be difficult the crew had been trying to find her all sorts of small gifts without any prompting .
while she would have liked to go exploring the ships , that would be out of character and in any case , no matter that wayne 's hardened privateers were a pushover for a small girl , nobody moved freely about a military vessel without good reason certainly not civilians nor children .
she would have to arrange that through an obliging officer tom or the surgeon .
on the longer term front , it was apparent that wayne and tom had done a lot of preparation for this insertion , getting the right people together at the right time and places .
from what she had seen on the pict wall , her new home to be looked very pleasant and she would have to do more research tomorrow .
she hoped the blue skies were the normal state she had at the next fourteen years there before reaching her adulthood and the active phase of her mission ... abilene provedore deadwood spaceport abilene was the last world in this part of space nominally controlled by the empire .
the last port of call before entering the supposedly 'neutral zone' the buffer between the empire and the hegemony .
this was one of the first independent colonies privately funded and outside but not opposing the empire .
the founders of this world were considered eccentrics they wished to create a world in the image of the ancient 'wild west ' of earth 's american frontier .
they certainly managed to recreate the 'wild ' part .
abilene , like its namesake , was a border world where colonies came to trade and take on supplies along with those who operated on the fringes pirates , privateers , smugglers , mercenaries , free companies , travelers , bounty hunters and brigands .
it was farming and mining world as most young colonies were .
the cities were like the old cow towns which only two people in this age knew from experience .
the law was made by the folks with money and what was good for making money was the law .
wayne liked abilene .
free company 'wotan 's fury 's spent quite a bit of time in this zone .
the hunting was good and the crew could blow off steam here , knowing that almost all problems could be fixed with money .
as they provided a significant contribution to the local economy in purchases and loot , they could get away with most things short of rape or murder .
a fair fight was never considered murder and rape never came into it with a profusion of willing amateurs and skilled professionals on hand .
on this trip there would be no shore leave , however .
just wayne and his quartermaster had traveled down in the ships gig and now they were watching as the last lighter departed with it 's cargo .
the heavily laden lighter wobbled on its field as the grav drive took the load .
the ship lifted , floating upwards , then its pilot fired the reaction drive to gain steerage and the cargo ship started its 2000km climb to 'wotan 's fury ' .
that 's the last one captain and a pleasure doing business with you sir .
said pete 'vittles peterson , owner of abilene provedore .
we will be back for a resupply in three to four weeks i have to escort a slow mover in , so i ca n't give you an exact time .
i appreciate you giving me priority on that order .
said wayne , passing over a sizable credit chip .
that 's for the prompt service .
pete looked at the chip and his eyes widened .
imperial credits were a sought after currency this far out on the rim .
do n't you worry cap'n we will hold those stores for you .
with a bit more warning on the resupply , i can get you a bit more variety dehydrated and ready for next time in the quantities you need , that is .
that would be appreciated they will be hungry when they get this lot .
once they have eaten that , they will start getting fussy again . ''
aw cap'n now who could ever get sick of corn bread , beef and beans ?
wayne laughed at that i will have a bit more time on my return we can get together over some of your best steaks and i will bring a few bottles of whiskey and tell you the story you are busting to hear .
you got yourself a deal there , cap'n and if i read the cards right , your crew is going to have a wad of prize money to blow .
not wrong but you may have to wait a couple of months before that happens and i do n't count my chips 'till i have them safely out of the saloon .
true , true now before you mount up , is there anything else i can get for your return ?
if you can find a cat ftld 4 , that would be much appreciated and i will pay list price for a one in working order .
it will be done cap'n and on the qt it goes without saying .
it does and adios pete .
you too cap'n j .
iso type three docking collar , said the lighter pilot .
ok jess , kill your drive , we have a tractor lock now warping you in .
the heavy lighter inched towards the docking collar , drawn in by the fury 's vector able gravity drive .
the metal surfaces kissed , and then the camming dogs latched the ships together .
the seal inflated , the instruments indicated a firm seal and once pressures were equalized , the two dock doors slid outwards and upwards .
cargo handlers ran forward and attached their hawsers to the containers .
once clear , the loadmaster started a winch , hauling the containers out along the roller bed .
as soon as they were clear of the lighter , the dock doors started to close , while the handlers started to stow and secure the last of their cargo .
clear to disengage have a good drop and see you next furlough , jess , said the loadmaster .
make that soon , lover , said the lighter pilot , disengaging the dogs and firing a short burst of her reaction engines .
as soon as she was clear of their microgravity , 'fury ' commenced boosting at full power .
in three hours they would be in subspace , where they would remain for about half a light year .
then , having entered subspace from near abilene , they would drop back to n space and re vector for their true destination .
i 'm not surprised , said mr. ramirez .
you treat them as refugees and victims they are crow slaves but they have been for generations and like the crows , they see you as kaffirs have the marines treat them as raw recruits they will understand this .
'ensigns ! '
he thought to himself ... tom appeared just in time to re enforce warrant officer ramirezs lesson on slave management to ensign johnson .
it was n't that he was a slow learner he would never have gained a position on this ship if he were like most people he had assumed that all slaves wished to be free and would be actually grateful to those who had freed them .
wrong .
on this ship , 2000 ex slaves were very glad to be free and were now working running and repairing the ship .
another 2000 ex slaves were learning to be free men again and were slowly begining to fend for themselves and help the crew .
the other 1000 deeply resented their change in status .
their liberators were kaffirs , ungodly , evil and unclean .
and about to receive the full attention of commander hendrik , who had just heard about this morning 's rebellion .
ensign johnson stood at rigid attention in front of the captain 's table .
so , mister you had a mutiny ?
sir they refused to follow my directions to police their quarters .
and you took what action ?
sir , i withdrew to seek further instruction .
i see .
i believe mr. ramirez has since advised you on the correct procedure , in these instances ?
aye sir . ''
the lesson here , mister , is to seek the advice of you senior ncos before you get yourself into a position .
do you understand this ?
aye sir .
then i suggest a disciplinary exercise to teach the collaborators who is in charge .
do you have any idea as to who 's advice to seek ? ''
yes , sir my warrant officer , sir .
dismissed ensign .
subspace proximity alert , sir vessel in the 150 kilotonne class system inbound .
sound general quarters all weapons to 'safe ' and track .
the ship burst out of subspace and within seconds had started vectoring to match course with the bulk freighter and escort .
the speed with which it changed course told them that it was the 'fury ' , even as the iff codes were verified .
stand down from general quarters , said commander hendrik .
stand by to receive freight all shuttle crews to your stations .
sir i have an incoming transmission in clear from 'wotan 's fury ' .
on the main viewer , yeoman .
captain jamieson 's face appeared on the screen .
greetings 'jolly roger' i have four hundred tonnes of food on board and want to transfer immediately .
what is your status ?
sir 'jolly roger ' and prize are in much better shape than when last we met .
my shuttle crews will commence cross loading on your clearance .
carry on , commander .
i will be coming across with the first return shuttle for a full debrief .
jamieson out .
lieutenant phillips a quarter guard for the co , if you please , bay two , ordered hendrik .
officer of the watch have the chief steward prepare the briefing room to receive the co. at least they had first rate coffee to offer the captain .
wayne returned the marines salute and tom dismissed the guard , leaving them to the orderly sergeant .
a steward followed them dragging a large hamper on a cart .
a few essentials for your mess , said wayne .
from the signals i have had a chance to read , you found enough food to hold out ok ?
thanks to a fitter 's mate with experience working bulk carriers who taught me that there is often another way .
wayne laughed .
have his section head present him at captain 's mast i 'm staying on board this leg .
charlie needs a shot at conning the 'fury ' without me looking over his shoulder .
will do , said tom .
speaking of 'hearts minds' most of the rescued captives are doing real well .
one lot is refurbishing the ship , another are undergoing rehab , but the others ... crow generational slaves and here is the rub there are far too many of them here .
they never leave a family , unless the family is taken over or falls foul of the sultanate .
tom , i 'm going to leave that one for the empire 's specialists to sort out .
in the meantime , have you got them under control ?
tom gave a wiry grin .
mr. johnson has learnt much regarding the handling of institutionalized slaves .
i found oxygen deprivation proves useful in difficult cases .
as did mr. johnson he also showed that marines with hard brooms and industrial detergent soon end 'dirty strikes ' .
the lad shows promise .
by the time they hadreached the bridge of the 'jolly roger ' , the next shuttle was already unloading this one full of long awaited clothing and textiles for the ship 's tailor module .
along with foodstuffs , wayne had purchased many tonnes of other items toiletries blankets even book readers and a few entertainment units .
he considered that money spent keeping the passengers a bit happier was a good investment .
they stood to make a great deal of money from this mission , a significant part of which would be the bounty on rescued citizens by the empire .
taking his place at the head of the table , captain jamieson said where are we at with our prize ?
engineering first .
sir , with the exception of the ftl tractor , we are nominally operational .
all critical systems are in good working order ancillaries need lots of small repairs and adjustments .
we have 55 civilians with engineering experience assisting with repairs .
personnel ?
approximately 2000 civilians in good spirits , giving us a labour pool of about 1000 , who are assisting with engineering and housekeeping , 2000 civilians deadheading not much use but not much trouble either the first civilian pool are taking care of them .
then we have 1000 considered hostile aliens .
sir , we have anecdotal evidence that they have been used by the crows to loot settlements when raiding this is how they are stripping these settlements so fast .
in other words , this vessel has been actively involved with the slavers ?
affirmative , sir we believe she holds a light out from the raid and acts as a support ship .
supporting evidence , commander ?
specialist equipment found , barracks on board , navigation records and loot located amongst the cargo inspected .
all documented and evidence preserved for naval intelligence .
good work .
that intel will pull down a hefty bonus .
one more point , sir we found docillation implantation equipment and implants in their surgery .
damn we may have been a bit hasty in releasing the crew .
i would now rather that naval intelligence mind fucked the lot of them .
still , it 's done qm your appraisal of hull and cargo ?
sir , the ship is going to fetch 3.8 to 4 billion on the market , if you sell at new chicago or one of the old worlds .
no system out near the rim could afford her .
the cargo 90 of the manifest is encrypted i have sent that data to 'fury ' for her computers to work on .
based on the other 10 which is probably lower valued cargo and the three percent physically inspected , i estimate the general cargo to be worth about 12 billion .
bulk cargo another 800 million in industrial gases , chemicals and minerals .
that is conservative , gentlemen , and i recommend selling off our cargo as we stop over .
too much in one market and we drive the prices down .
but sir , i was saving this for last we located a high security hold near the center of the ship .
this contained processed fissile material forty seven tonnes and some 19,000 litres of hydrogen isotopes pure , not heavy water .
that lot we are going to have to let the navy put a price on .
yes , i will do a trade on the last , replied captain jamieson .
but as for the rest we have enough loot here to buy out our shareholders which action i propose to put to a meeting of all stakeholder officers at first opportunity .
we have a way to go yet , although it should be all routine , so let 's keep focused on the mission and keep the troops minds on the job and not on drinking their prize money .
let 's get into subspace , then we can think about a night off it 's about time the mess had a slap up formal dinner .
now gentlemen , to your posts .
what wayne had not told them was that in several months they were going to do the same sort of raid again , before the crows had the chance to react and beef up the escorts .
which was what the imperial navy wanted the crows capital ships tied up with freighter escorts ... on approach to yalumba , permission had been given for a few of the civilians to visit the freighter 's owners lounge here they could view the famous sight of the gas giant opal and its numerous incandescent neon rings a light display unequaled throughout the explored galaxy .
i must say that i would never have expected a free company to be such pleasant hosts , said colony leader antares .
it just goes to show that you ca n't believe what you see on the 3d , said captain jamieson , with a laugh .
you will be seeing us from time to time , as we pass through this sector every few years .
i 'm expecting a good return on my investment here .
i 'm sure that you will get one it will be a long term one , mind .
i want a lot of long term investments one day we will get out of this game .
jamieson had traveled ahead to arrange a home for the rescued colonists yalumba being what is known as a 'big planet' one with a land mass larger than it 's oceans , they were readily accepted by the planets leaders especially given that captain jamieson 's company were sponsoring them .
during the weeks in subspace , they had located much of their looted colony equipment and stores , plus the free company has added other loot and credit to replace that which had been lost for a shareholding in this new colony .
normally , a colony would land to find buildings set up by robot drones in this case local machinery had been hired to do the same job setting up a landing field , stores and temporary accommodation for shelter until their own could be built .
their claim was over 1000 km from the nearest settlement not a virgin world , but fairly close to it .
in a few short hours , they would be starting over again .
most failed colonies never got this chance .
the gig touched down on a square of grass near the river , about 200 meters from the mission building a large rectangular structure made from locally quarried limestone blocks not the usual silico concrete domes , favored by imperial colonies .
it was the sort of structure once common in hot climates massive stone walls to insulate from the summer sun and it gave the appearance of having been a part of the landscape for centuries it was one of the older buildings on the planet , having been raised about 100 years earlier .
on the other side of the river were similar structures the famous winery which tunneled into a nearby escarpment to make the cellars .
grapevines covered the river terraces and sheep and cattle wandered about the river flats , through which flowed an oxbow river of crystal clear water from the mountains some thirty kilometers away .
willow and poplar trees followed the river and older oaks , gums and acacia were scattered about the fields , giving welcome shade to the stock .
the surrounding hills were dry and yellow , while the irrigated land closer to the river was a lush green .
the skies were an azure blue with just a few tiny wisps of cloud and temperature was a pleasant 26 degrees although it was only 1000 hrs local and would get hotter later in the day .
a small group waited by the edge of the field .
the surgeon of the jolly rodgers oldest daughter , her husband and their two young children .
wayne and lillian exited the lock , carrying a small sleeping figure .
'i gave her a mild sedative , lillian said .
good , said emily , her daughter .
let 's get this little one to bed , then we can have a drink and supper you said you could stay a while ?
we have a couple of extra days , said wayne , as they walked up to the mission .
we decided to take on some cargo for new chicago while we were here we were going that way and had plenty of space , so your wine co op got a good price on the freight .
that 's one cargo we do n't have to worry about losing then , said her husband jim .
he looked up to the skies to where the huge form of the 'golden caravan ' could be easily seen in its low orbit .
that is one big ship how much cargo are you taking on here ?
148 kilotonnes your whole vintage and assorted other cargo .
we captured her almost full , but have off loaded 2000 colonists and most of their equipment that we recovered that left us a couple of bays to fill up no point in running empty .
they were now at the main gate to the mission compound , a pair of 6x4 meter latticed steel gates hung open they were closed at night , more to stop stock wandering in and fouling the courtyard .
the sun was setting and the mission was winding down for the evening , with only the older girls still up they were watching the 3d in the senior classes lounge .
as was the practice here , this was the adult staff 's time to take a meal and relax , now that the heat of the day had eased off .
the mission was of a classic design open plan and airy , with high ceilings and lots of arches .
earthy terra cotta tones dominated and colour was added with bright pots filled with decorative plants and miniature fruit trees .
the mission was really a small walled village , with a central pathway and two rows of three storied structures dormitories , living quarters and classrooms .
an atrium joined the two blocks .
the ground floor apartments opened out onto private courtyards , the classrooms were on the first floor and the dormitories on the second floor .
at the other end of the compound were a commissary and a swimming pool .
all the buildings were roofed with replica terra cotta tiles , made from near indestructible silica concrete .
we will put her in one of the guest rooms tonight , next to your rooms , so she can see familiar faces when she wakes , said emily .
this part is never easy , the leaving .
this child seems very resilient , said lillian .
we are sure she was taken from travelers and they tend to foster and pass children about their extended families .
which does n't make it any easier for you , mum , said emily .
you always were a big softy when you thought no one was watching .
she pointed out a plain , but well appointed room and they carried the sleeping jenny in and tucked her into bed .
emily slaved the monitor to her wrist comm , so that they could listen for her waking not likely after the sedative .
tomorrow we will buddy her up with a couple of the older girls no need to be concerned , we do this sort of thing all the time here .
leaving her husband to put the children to bed , emily lead her visitors to her private garden , an eight x eight meter space , paved with flagstones of laser cut native stone and home to a small water feature that sprayed the tropical plantings and helped cool the air .
a table of teak wood was set with places for four and emily started laying out plates from a small chiller unit .
this is our usual fare here a light meal at the end of a hot day if you want anything else , i will have the kitchen send it over .
no this is splendid , said wayne .
it 's much the same on ship meals get lighter as the watch gets later .
i should have thought would you prefer to eat indoors captain ?
outdoors is a great change i spend almost all of my time inside a ship these days , but i do enjoy the sky over my head too .
thanks for asking , though a lot of old spacers get the agoraphobia quite bad , but i 'm not one of them .
this fare is splendid our hydroponics section never produces enough fruit or vegetables for our liking and yalumba produce is second to none , said lillian .
true , said wayne .
this food would fetch top credit on the outer mining worlds in fact i will buy a few tonnes next time i do the helzin run .
emily 's husband jim returned with two bottles .
i will let the cabernet breath for a while , while we start with the chardonnay .
wayne picked up the bottle .
one of the few not of old earth that finds it 's way to the imperial court .
i suspect much of the shipment i 'm loading will be headed there .
certainly all of the premium labels , said jim , who was the head winemaker .
i 'm proud to say that our own label is now in that category .
what you may not have heard , is that we have branched out into our own brandy .
well , i will certainly have to give you my opinion on that , said wayne , looking forward to trying a brandy made from the empire 's finest grapes .
after a leisurely supper and some excellent wine , they retired to a garden area just outside the mission walls .
by now the place was much quieter , the older girls having been sent off to bed by the duty matron and the abundant bird life had roosted for the evening .
all that was to be heard were the few night hunting owls , a cricket like native insect and the gentle sound of moving water coming from the nearby river .
the brandy was indeed up to the standard of the rest of their fare .
the sky reddened into darkness , with just the light of the three small moons and wayne produced a cigar case .
a meal like that needs this final touch .
they prepared and lit the cigars then sat and smoked in quiet reflection for a while .
lillian finally broke the silence .
that little one will be up early , so i had best be off to bed soon she is used to seeing my face first watch .
yes , we do n't want to keep you from your work tomorrow .
nonsense , said emily .
this is our down time until the next harvest comes in and we have plenty of time for guests especially ones who only come by every three or four years .
we will be in this sector a bit more often now , wayne informed them .
the armed escort market is growing as cargoes in these fringe areas increase in value you are no longer the frontier , but sure are n't part of the inner circle worlds yet .
i promised not to say too much , but i had talks with your governor and there are a few new trading partnerships in the wind .
i never thought of you as a freighter , said jim .
oh , we carry freight all right , said wayne .
it 's just that much of it is loot .
jenny had used her metabolic control to counteract the sedative and was now laying awake , feigning sleep with her head under the light blanket .
for the next couple of days , she could continue much as normal , but would have to remember to act a little agoraphobic and be afraid of open water for a while , as she 'adapted ' to life on a planet .
for a few days they would watch her closely , but would stop doing so once she appeared to settle in .
not a difficult piece of acting the hard part were these early bedtimes .
by the time lillian awoke , the apartment was quiet .
the children have taken her off to the aviary to feed the cockatoos , said emily .
if they do n't get fed early you can hear the screeching from here .
wayne left at first light said he was off to check out the countryside .
that will be him gone for the day then , even at the speed he travels at .
about time he took some kind of a break .
emily pushed the coffee pot across the table and lillian took a refill .
what 's with the aviary ?
do n't you have enough of those feathered noisemakers about the place already ?
tame cockies are the hottest new export item 5000 imperials for a talking bird back in the circle .
damn .
that 's good money for a pest .
it offsets some of the damage the birds do to our fruit , anyway .
do n't you have such a thing as a shock field out here ?
not considered an essential import you know how it is in the colonies .
i will talk to the skipper a few cases from your cellars and we bring you a couple of shock field generator by the back door .
the ics nosy 's do n't need to know everything .
jim and i would certainly appreciate that now i must see where these children are .
emily activated a window and gave a 'locate ' command .
the supervisor computer pinged the appropriate locater pendants , triangulated their position and aimed the nearest camera .
a group of children were feeding pieces of fruit through the wire of the breeding cages to the birds .
see there is your young one feeding a galah she is doing well for ship raised .
they often have trouble adapting to planet life .
i have a feeling that that one would make herself at home anywhere .
jenny was gingerly passing pieces of fruit through the wire to the raucous birds , while the other children encouraged her .
wayne 's last words came back to her 'this undercover lark can be a bit of a drag , but try to make the best of it and have fun where you can .
we all go on about having a childhood again , knowing what we know now you are going to get that chance , so make the most of it . '
she gave a laugh at the antics of the cockatoos and the lorikeets , and then exclaimed to the other children , this is fun .
wayne had covered about thirty kilometers by noon and was at the top of a small hill overlooking the settlement .
he had taken a survival vest from his gig , and now took a break and drank from a water bottle , scanning the surrounds with a small pair of pocket binoculars .
whoever picked the site had done a great job this was a prime piece of country a great place to grow up .
he had n't realized how much he missed wide open space and the quiet of a near empty countryside .
but he knew he would n't be living on a starship forever just another 21 22 years or so .
hardly any time at all and it 's not that it was a bad life anyway .
wayne was always one to make the best of the circumstances he was in .
he checked his tablet for messages and added shock field generators to the list of equipment that he reckoned this settlement needed .
his quick survey traveling through the station had found a few things lacking .
the bounty money he was due for 'rescuing ' jenny would cover most of those and he could always use more good investments .
with a few taps on his tablet , he ordered the 'fury ' to move overhead and scan the station with its deep penetrating radar .
a good groundwater supply would help the station the land looked right for it and he would hire a drilling contractor before they left if the ship confirmed the water was there .
small settlements always had more on their 'to do ' lists than they could afford and even with the credit coming in , you still had to find the equipment out here .
he had the push to get it on site .
he decided he had seen enough for now and using his tablet again , ordered his gig to travel on auto to his location .
there was a fine looking swimming hole in that river , just downstream from the station and the day was getting hotter .
he hoped they would have beer here , and then laughed out loud at his thought .
this was an australian planet !
after three days of r r in the hot yalumba sun , it was time to leave .
the new subspace tractor had been fitted to the freighter and the chief engineer had pronounced it ready for the next long leg of their journey a five week drag to new chicago , on the edge of the sector know as 'the inner circle ' of the empire the worlds settled in the first three centuries of colonization .
there they would off load all their cargo and make arrangements to sell the prize ship , then once restocked , head back to abilene for a month 's leave for the crew .
then it would be back into hostile space to do what they did so well .
jenny put on a fine display of tears at lillian 's leaving , as would be expected of her .
lillian had given jenny her free company ring on a chain , to wear as a pendant until such time as it would fit a finger .
this means that you are always a member of our crew now and we never forget our own nobody else may ever wear this ring unearned and you will find when you get older that it opens many doors otherwise closed not that this means much to you now .
take care and i will be back this way when i can .
lillian hugged her a last time and stepped into the hatchway and waved goodbye .
the shuttle 's strobes started and the small crowd moved back as the grav drive engaged .
unlike a civilian shuttle , this military model shot straight up as the pilot steadily increased the gain on the drive .
if anyone thought their battle hardened surgeon 's tears were out of place , they kept their thought to themselves .
they could be the next one in her surgery being sewn up the surgeon had a long memory and sutures could hurt more than they had too .
cockatoo river mission 15 years later .
jenny had indeed enjoyed her time at the mission and her second childhood .
to all around , she settled into mission life easily .
she found that there was very little acting required , as this was a great time and place for a child to grow up in .
studious and a self starter , she was soon left to study at her own pace , rapidly working through the small schools curriculum and moving on to more advanced subjects .
she developed an interest in outdoor pursuits that would go a ways towards explaining her enhanced body swimming , long distance running , hunting , athletics and gymnastics .
with her adult mind in a child 's body , it was natural to become a leader amongst the children , who she mentored and steered though the often hard path of being an orphan .
at eight years old , the gymnastics instructor a retired marine blademaster saw a great potential in her for unarmed and armed combat .
all children were instructed in the arts of self defense , but jenny , after copying the actions of the older girls , was permitted to start training several years earlier than normal .
on reaching her adulthood at eighteen , she was close to earning her blademaster 's rank just needing the necessary combat experience to achieve this .
it was in the areas of all matters martial that she had really excelled , rapidly rising through the ranks of the local school cadets to district commander by age fourteen the empire and their allies recognized ability ahead of age or family .
under her leadership , the mission cadet class always popular was taken to a new level .
unlike their predecessors back in the 20th century , these cadets did much more than drill and a smattering of military training .
they were at the level of late 20th century regular army light infantry of the more professional armies of old earth .
'wotan 's fury ' and crew regularly appeared in the skies , visiting yalumba every year or two , often on the way back to the imperial 'inner circle ' cluster , loaded with loot .
the free company was to take another two of the great mega ships and a score of lesser craft prize , although none with a cargo like that of the first .
with dozens of navel vessels destroyed by jamieson 's raiders , the crows were forced to withdraw from this sector and use their precious battleships to escort convoys of freighters passing near this zone .
on jenny 's sixteenth birthday based on apparent age and the date of her arrival , the free company appeared in their skies .
they were about to move sectors to the outer world of helzin a fabulously rich new world laden with valuable minerals , where they had accepted an imperial commission to assist in the unification of the planet , as a condition to its admittance to the empire .
their mission would be to keep other opportunists who might exploit the up coming conflict out along with a few other projects on the secret list .
after loading provisions , jenny and a select group from her cadet class were invited to take a short trip around the system .
after taking a turn at the helm of a 150,000 tonne state of the art heavy destroyer 'fury ' was in reality a cruiser , but free companies were not supposed to have such vessels .
jenny 's path was set .
she would be headed for the imperial navy , via the elite war academy .
nothing less would do .
on her return , she applied for a colonial scholarship supported by the mission staff , the province aristocrat , sir fordson and her cadet cadre officer .
this was provisionally approved by local recruiting , subject to satisfactory completion of a tour with local forces .
knowing what she was up against at the war academy , the local militia had her posted into the elite puckapunyal bushrangers at the minimum age of seventeen years , for scout training .
after a few short months in the searing outback , she had gained the grudging respect of the crack light infantry troopers , who had run off their share of well connected wannabes seeking the badge of an elite unit .
by age eighteen she had passed the torturous pre entry and was nearly finished her initial advanced training .
at three months short of reaching nineteen years old , she had completed her jungle and arctic warfare training and was badged into the regiment at the rank of trooper .
on her nineteenth birthday , her acceptance into the war academy was confirmed , subject to satisfactorily completing a tour on active duty on old earth and a period of six weeks leave , prior to transport arriving , was granted .
two weeks after returning to the cockatoo river mission , the event she had been waiting for these firteen years happened .
the sun was on the way down as jenny packed water and trail rations into a small pack , along with a chameleon ghillie .
by a non coincidence one arranged by wayne jamieson emily , jim and their youngest child had taken a jumpbug across planet to visit their old friend shannon antares at the 'second chance ' settlement .
this removed any shred of doubt in her mind that it would happen tonight .
the stations computer almanac also showed the moons in the optimal position for a 0200 attack .
she had given the reason for her overnight hunt as a nest of yabbies out past the gum grove to the west of the station .
this native pest was a creature similar too , but tougher than , a terran armadillo .
its powerful mandibles could wreak havoc on crop roots its food source , so they were hunted continuously to keep them from becoming established near the vines .
they were a nocturnal burrowing creature and , while deaf , were very sensitive to the vibrations of approaching footsteps .
they called for a big bore and long range rifle able to penetrate their armored caprice .
jenny had just the weapon a custom modified ten mm remington sporting rifle , rifled to shoot 25 gram slugs at subsonic velocities .
this silenced weapon was topped by a variable powered day night sight an old fashioned model without ranging laser or ballistics computer .
jenny did n't need them .
over the years she had measured and memorized the distance between every significant landmark for many kilometers around the mission .
likewise , the ballistics table for her rifles load was firmly committed to memory .
in her pockets were 60 rounds of full metal jacketed 'yabbie busters ' , along with 40 rounds of specials hand loaded by wayne 's master armourer .
these miniature warheads would easily penetrate a shuttle 's hull , a stone wall or most light armour .
half of them were subsonic and matched the ballistics of jenny 's silent load , while the other twenty were full powered penetrators .
not that accurate out of this rifle , but there was no taking cover from these .
she wore a standard utility knife a marine of the 19 20th century would recognize it as a k bar , and her batik knife , which she always wore on her left side .
she was dressed as she always was , for the local bush .
just as she had equipped herself for a hundred other hunting trips .
on her way out , she told the duty warden of her plans for an overnight hunt and reminded her that the cadets would have musketry drill at 0700 , before the heat of the day and that she would be back to supervise that .
the warden acknowledged the message and wished her good hunting .
jenny walked briskly off into the night , breaking into a trot once she had crossed the swing bridge over the cockatoo .
she traveled fast over familiar ground and was soon in her first hide these hunting hides had been positioned over the years on points suited to watch the most likely approaches to the mission .
she took a drink from a water flask a collapsible canteen that would n't slosh when moving and ate a bar of chocolate .
that done , she took her service pistol from her pack and attached the holster and magazine pouch to her belt .
now the hardest part .
waiting .
jenny waited at her lup .
all the time the words of wayne echoed through her head .
take the lighter first then defend the mission .
we need more confirmed information on who is behind these raids then you may defend the mission as you see fit .
the mission goal was never in doubt .
the number of survivors was .
and exactly who those survivors would be .
wayne had told her what was the fate of all those at the mission without their intervention .
the adults would be implanted with docillation chips and sent to the mines the girls would be sold as sex slaves the reason for this raid was to take these extremely valuable and very marketable slaves .
the raids had been very professional , small and infrequent not enough to push the empire to war , as there was no firm proof as to who was behind them whatever they may suspect .
he believed that naval intelligence could glean enough information from the landing craft and a few captives .
all she had to do was fight a company to a standstill and buy the time for the local forces to mount a rescue .
what he had left unsaid was that some of the girls and staff of the mission would have to become martyrs in order to spark the empire into action against the crow hegemony the reason for his team being here jenny had done all she could to ready the mission .
by planning a range shoot for the early morning , the cadets would have their weapons handy and magazines loaded .
many of the older girls also had hunting and sporting rifles , shotguns and pistols in their rooms as did all the adults , but their attackers would know that and no doubt go in hard .
she had several ideas on how to give the mission a little advance warning ... at 0130hrs , the first sign of an imminent attack .
her comm set went dead , as a kinetic weapon smashed through the communication satellite that served this region .
now they were cut off from their nearest help .
on a colony of this size , the failure of the satellite would not be acted on for some time and it could be hours before anyone figured out that there was a deliberate attack underway somewhere on a huge continent .
no doubt the drop ship would be jamming the local backup radio .
another reason to take the ship .
with her enhanced hearing and vision , jenny spotted the near silent approach of the lighter , which came in low from the uninhabited eastern plains .
she pulled the ghillie over her and watched the lighter land in the spot she had selected as the site that she would mount a raid from .
troops poured out from the rear hatch and moved off immediately , while the slave handlers milled about letting the troops get well ahead before following .
they were acting as porters , carrying all the restraints and equipment , plus spare ammunition and supplies for the troops .
as they moved off , she started crawling into a position to see into the lighter , through the open rear hatch .
there were four guards and two flight crew to take out .
the flight crew obviously pulled rank and ordered the security detail out of the ship , while they enjoyed a probably forbidden cigarette .
the security detail moved around to the front of the ship to sneak a smoke themselves .
it looked like the real professionals were in the raiding party , which made the task actually harder .
if they had spread out like proper sentries , she could have easily taken them one by one .
she started the mental process that activated her enhanced reactions and strength .
jenny would now be thinking , reacting and moving about four times faster than a normal human .
she shouldered the rifle and took careful aim .
at just over a hundred meters away , the silenced rifle went totally unheard over the insect life and the heavy bullet slammed into the side of the pilot , destroying his lungs and heart .
less than of a second later the co pilot was also dead on his feet , shot just below the ear , severing his brain stem .
now jenny started stalking the group of four guards , who were oblivious to the carnage in the cargo hold .
moving slowly to get the best from her chameleon suit , jenny crept to within meters of the group and shot the man on the far side of the group through the face .
they instinctively looked to their fallen member and in that time she had put down her rifle and charged in with a knife in each hand .
her two blades stabbed into a pair of necks , cutting through to the spine , severing arteries and veins as she jerked them free .
the sole survivor tried to bring his slung rifle up as she slammed a boot into his crotch , then brain stabbed him with her batik , using her enhanced strength to drive the heavy blade near to the hilt , before ripping it free .
the curved pistol grip handle on this ancient design was perfect for this stabbing attack , giving the extra purchase to free the blade .
a quick check that all were dead , then she gathered up their ammunition and a pair of rifles , which she would cache along the way .
now to make sure the ship stayed grounded .
entering the ship , she closed the ramp behind her and reloaded with armour piercing rounds .
taking care to fit earplugs , she emptied the rifle into the ships grav drive controller module .
this lighter was going nowhere without a major refit and all the computers plus the information they contained would be undamaged .
a quick search of the ship revealed a set of night vision binoculars several generations of technology behind even the colonies older equipment but they would suffice .
she put them into her pack and left through the small side hatch .
heading parallel to the attackers , she reached a small knoll about 850 meters from the mission .
crawling up the reverse slope , she took out the binoculars , taking care to check that they were set to 'passive ' .
as with all their equipment , crow gear consisted of monkey copies of old imperial models and the controls , while unreadable , worked the same .
the auxiliaries were lying up on the other side of the river , waiting for the command to advance , while the assaulter 's were in position and ignoring the gates , about to breach the wall on the side of the staff accommodation .
that made sense , she thought take out the biggest threat in the opening seconds and seizing the girls would be a walk in the park .
she hoped they would think that , anyway .
jenny knew those girls would fight for their lives and at least sell themselves dear .
she brought up the rifle and adjusted the scope .
this was a long shot for the slow moving slug , which had a trajectory like a rainbow over these distances , but she had practiced at exactly this range and the target was large .
the designer of the mission building had put in a feature from the distant past a bell tower and a bell tower needed a bell .
jenny sighted on the bronze bell and fired .
she saw the bell rock well before the loud 'dong ' reached her and then the fight was on .
the raider 's commander was no fool as soon as the bell sounded he gave the order to fire the breaching charges and commence the assault .
as the stone walls were breached , grenades were lobbed into the courtyards and the slavers immediately climbed through the breaches firing their short barreled assault rifles , as they charged into the apartments .
jenny silently cursed as she hurried to take up a new position the staff apartments were on the blind side to her hide on the knoll and her secondary position was five hundred meters away .
the attack would be won or lost before she could get in a position to help .
from the sounds of the battle , she could hear that the attackers were not having it all their own way .
somebody inside was fighting back .
the old blademaster , jan kessel , had taken charge of the survivors and was directing a fallback towards the central winding staircase .
the surviving adults five of them were all bloodied and battered from the explosive attack and running low on ammunition .
jan knew they were done for , but he wanted to buy the girls time to organize a defense .
if they could make the attack expensive enough , or keep them at bay long enough , there was a chance that the raiders would break off the attack before the local militia could mobilize .
as the last of the group rounded the corner , he spied four troopers advancing through the smoke .
hold the stair , he yelled and threw himself at the advancing troops , firing his last two rounds .
one struck a crow trooper in the face , felling him , the second being stopped by the trooper 's body armour .
as he closed to knife range , a burst of rifle fire hit him in the belly .
with his last strength , he staggered against one of the troops , sliding his dagger under his armour and through the diaphragm , into a lung .
assault captain ishmal sized up the situation on his tactical monitor and ordered the next two groups of four in , convinced that they had broken the back of the resistance .
it had cost him four men , but he had known that the imperials would not be taken without a fight .
as he waved them in , a rifle shot sounded not one of theirs and one of the waiting assaulter 's fell dead .
the troops immediately located the position and two light machine guns hosed down the bell tower .
keep your eyes open , barked the captain .
you should have seen that sniper they are meant to be the amateurs not you .
as soon as jenny heard the report of a sporting rifle , she groaned .
not the tower you know better than that .
sure enough , the top of the bell tower disappeared in a cloud of pulverized limestone .
inside , the assaulter 's made the most of the distraction of the firing outside and rushed the stairs , firing as they ran upward .
as they reached the first landing , two assault rifles opened up , one from each side of the first floor landing , raking the assaulter 's with 7mm military rounds which had no problem defeating crow body armour .
as with all cadet units , their rifles were not the latest , but were a perfectly adequate older revision of the imperial 7mm caseless general purpose rifle .
the second wave was held off .
ishmal cursed again .
this was taking too long and his losses had been high but his backers did not accept defeat .
he decided to redeploy and ordered his troops to the front of the mission , where he ordered a grenadier to breach the first floor wall , pointing at a likely spot .
the grenadier fired two rpg rounds , tearing a meter wide hole through the thick stone and the captain ordered a scaling ladder into the breach , as his troops kept up a suppressing fire into the hole .
with the worst of luck , the rpg rounds had struck the nursery , as several of the younger girls were evacuating the babies to the top floor .
from her vantage point , jenny could see where the wall was breached and guessed the worst , fighting back the streaming tears of rage and sorrow in her eyes .
she needed her eyes clear now she was in a position to fire on the raiders .
through her scope she saw one climb the ladder and raise something to the edge of the hole in the wall , before climbing down it must be a camera .
a short discussion between four figures they would be the command group and two details moved off .
one went to the rear of the structure , while another set charges on the gate hinges .
it looked like they were going to try a push from all directions , which would almost certainly overwhelm the defenders .
now she saw the auxiliaries start to move they must have been summoned as scratch reinforcements .
jenny had a plan of attack .
assault captain ishmal was a very competent leader and knew that the attack had to keep moving , before the defenders managed to barricade themselves in further .
he ordered his grenadiers to fire their last hyperbaric missiles at the stairwell and into the breached room .
he figured that damaged slaves were better than no slaves .
not wanting to wait until his reserves brought up the extra ammunition now running low , he ordered the attack to recommence .
the first section blew the gates off and their grenadier fired down the main hall at the stairwell , as another blast weapon tore apart the badly damaged nursery , blowing out partitioning walls and widening the breach .
now there was no return fire coming from inside the building and the troops raced up the ladder and gained a foothold in the mission .
at the same time the second and third sections stormed the stairwell , killing the last defenders .
intent on watching the action on his monitor , ishmal failed to see that his reinforcements had not arrived .
jenny made the call to concentrate on cutting off the reinforcements .
as the lead man reached the suspension bridge , she fired , dropping him in his tracks .
the men following thought he had stumbled until others started to fall at a rate of one every three seconds .
finally realizing that they were under attack , they scattered for what cover they could find , while jenny 's heavy slugs tore through them .
as soon as she saw the command group turn towards them , realizing that their reserves were under attack from a sniper , she swung her rifle around , loaded an armour piercing round and carefully shot the man pointing and giving orders .
the multipurpose round hit assault captain ishmal under the armpit , the rdx charge detonating , sending the tungsten penetrator through both sides of his body armour and riddling his chest cavity with incandescent zirconium chips .
by way of getting their attention , she then loaded one of her full power rounds and gut shot the man next to him , then scurried back down the reverse side of the slope , to find another position .
machine gun fire raked the brow of the spur and a poorly aimed rpg grenade burst 50 meters away but jenny had disappeared into the night .
the defenders had rigged a camera in the shattered remains of the bell tower and could see that somebody was out there and hurting the slavers it had to be jenny .
the word spread like wildfire and strengthened their fading resolve to hold on .
the attackers were now out of explosives , grenades and rpg's their resupply scattered across the field on the far side of the river , dropped by fleeing or dying auxiliaries .
they were now unable to push up the final flight of stairs , without facing a hail of copper and tungsten cones .
after several minutes without a shot from below , the camera showed the troops in an orderly retreat , headed in the direction of their lighter .
every now and again one would fall and not get up .
jenny was now stalking .
she would make a kill , then retire and take up another position .
as she got nearer to the crippled ship , she glanced to her rear , checking her six and saw a flag had been raised from the ruins of the bell tower .
they had held their ground .
then she felt her comm unit pulse against her wrist comms were being relayed locally and somebody was calling her directly .
she interrupted her stalk and moved back 100 meters to talk .
she selected 'play ' and received a message jenny if that is you out there , move back towards the mission we have incoming .
she doubled back towards the mission , keeping cover between her and the troops cautiously retreating towards their ship .
somebody back at the mission had gotten a message out on the backup radio , kept on the top floor .
help was on the way .
sixty kilometers out , lieutenant hanna received the order to commence her attack run on hostiles at the cockatoo river mission .
pulling her gs 16 into a climb , she set her scanners to sweep ahead to the target area .
at forty kilometers , the scan was complete and she confirmed the aim point .
dipping hard towards the ground , and then pulling up sharp at full power , she executed a flawless toss release of her eight 100kg cluster units , then banked hard to orbit the target zone , in case a guns pass was needed .
the bombs soared upwards , and then started a near vertical descent into the 'basket ' .
their targeting computers found the designated target a group of men on the ground identified them by weapons and uniform and coordinated an optimum spread for their bomblet payloads .
at 100 meters agl , the bombs dispersed their sub munitions and fire fell from the sky on the hapless crows .
lieutenant 'wedgetail ' hanna flashed over the target , her anti personnel masers finishing the work her bombs had started .
she keyed 'hail ' and transmitted target neutralized .
as she continued to orbit the area , covering the incoming infantry and rescue services , she saw a lone figure running towards the enemy ship .
'looks like that is the one they warned me about ' she thought .
running back towards her original position , jenny prepared to fend off anyone trying to reach the ship .
now that the large rear ramp was secured , they would have to enter by the side hatch , presenting an easy target .
jenny was down to her last six rounds , so she checked a captured assault rifle and laid it on the ground next to her .
she made a call to the mission on the channel used before and started relaying information to the territorial infantry that were now dropping into the zone .
directing one section to land and secure the ship , she had the others drop in a line parallel to the previous advance of the crows .
annoyed at the lack of appearing targets , she moved in carefully to make contact with the infantry now at the ship , calling ahead to make sure they knew she was coming .
she was challenged , then passed through the perimeter and jenny was lead to the section commander , a sergeant wearing insignia showing he was attached imperial cadre .
you did n't leave us much someone has done for this ships crew , he said , then stopped as he saw the tell tale blood splatters over the front of jenny 's clothing .
he knew the signs of a knife fight when he saw them .
you did that ?
jenny nodded .
you got a unit yet ?
he said , assuming jenny was about the age for starting her service .
puckapunyal bushrangers just badged and home on leave .
the sergeant gave a low whistle and said figures , with a quick grin , then turned to his watching squad do any of you wombats have jobs to do ?
well bloody get on with them .
he was then interrupted with a contact report from the south picket .
bravo two papa four south sweep linking up reporting sector clear out .
a few minutes later , the patrol 's section leader was at the cp , which had been set up at the rear of the ship .
the major wants any locals back at the mission for debriefing and your body count , then secure this ship as a crime scene .
we have six hostiles kia here , courtesy of the ranger here .
those high caliber kills we been finding would be yours too ?
they are relay back to your oc that we had 54 raiders , sixty auxiliaries and six flight crew i counted them coming off the lighter .
good work troop .
the boss will be a lot happier if we can account for all of them .
i will have a detail escort you back .
best you stick with us the troops on the line are a bit trigger happy tonight .
the larger moon , pearl , was up now and with the moonlight the trip back was a lot easier , their escorts still taking care to let the pickets know of their advance .
word over the net was that there were only a few crow survivors and they were all injured .
unlucky them .
as the party neared the mission , they saw the organized chaos of the emergency services .
it looked like every unit in the province had descended upon the mission .
a military police patrol craft orbited the area , warning off the flood of jumpbugs carrying civilians wanting to help or fight .
a field hospital had landed behind the mission and floodlights had been rigged everywhere .
police and intelligence were imaging and gathering evidence for a full investigation , soldiers were policing up the damage inside and , ominously , a mortuary truck was being loaded with small body bags .
off to one side , a line of body bags had been kept separated .
jenny was escorted to the cp , which had been set up in the mostly undamaged commissary , where she waited for a harried major to finish giving orders through a military comm set .
she came to attention and saluted .
trooper devries reporting , sir .
the major removed his helmet and wiped his dusty forehead .
take a seat trooper , it 's been a bad night and i hear that you have been in the thick of it now first can you confirm those hostile numbers ?
yes , sir i got a good count .
i was out hunting and saw the ship drop not far from my hide .
good then we have accounted for all of them .
their support ship slingshot out of orbit at the first sign of trouble and they will be in subspace before anyone can get near them .
sir how bad was it here ?
bad enough we have 61 confirmed dead and a couple that probably wo n't make it almost everyone surviving was injured mostly minor stuff though .
sir with your permission , i need to ...
he interrupted no trooper you need to stay out of there .
take it from an old soldier the dead do n't need you remember them as they were .
the living they need the medics now .
they will need you later .
in a few minutes naval intel will be landing and they are going to debrief you .
they will want to get your turn of the events and its policy not to let you talk to the other players at least until after they have wrung you out .
he saw the grim set of her jaw and continued , what i can tell you is that the people here every last one who could point a rifle put up one hell of a fight against a real tough opponent .
for what it 's worth this battle is going to go in the history books .
your actions almost certainly turned the battle , from all accounts and thats all i can say right now .
his wrist comm buzzed and he glanced at it .
calling an orderly over from the far side of the room , he directed her to take jenny to the intelligence section that had just landed on the other side of the river .
jenny would spend longer than the battle took being questioned by intel and it was daylight before she left their ship .
by the time she was dismissed , the survivors had been evacuated the settlement of 'second chance ' had offered to insisted on taking them as a group , while the mission was cleaned up and repaired .
already the cleanup was well under way , with no shortage of willing volunteers .
she wandered about the mission , taking in the battle damage walls pock marked by bullets and grenade fragments , windows blown out and the lingering acrid fumes of explosives along with the metallic tang of too much spilt blood .
there you are , came a call , and she turned around to see her section commander .
come on , the skipper has popped over to pick you up wants to get you before the brass does .
glad to get away before her emotions took over , jenny climbed on board the troop carrier .
a crewman closed the rear hatch and took off on a semi ballistic course for the capital of victoria .
i 'm afraid you wo n't be getting much shut eye for a while , trooper , said lieutenant colonel atkins , her commanding officer .
i will have the medics give you a pepper pill when we land the governor and the official representative want a word .
what has happened is that you have been a big part of capturing the first definitive proof of a government organized slaving ring .
we all knew it was going on , but had no real proof until you took that lighter .
intel is unpicking all sorts of info out of its computers already .
sir , all i did was fail to keep the cockroaches out of that mission .
no , troop what you did was give them a fighting chance , when you rung that bell , when you took out their commander , when you chased off the auxiliaries .
we found 61 bodies with ten mm slugs in them .
that 's a fair effort although i would expect nothing less from one of my troops .
she gave a tired little grin .
that 's near one for every one of ours not enough i want a rematch .
you shall get one .
i believe your application for academy training will now be fast tracked you can consider your active combat requirement ticked off .
sir i really want to know what happened inside the mission .
so he told her .
not going to pull any punches , so here it is , based on the interviews of the survivors .
when you rang that bell , you gave the mission about two seconds warning .
just enough time for a couple of the staff to grab sidearms before the crows stormed in .
the attack still killed most of them , but nine survived and rallied by the old blademaster , they fought a retreat to the stairs .
there three of them sorry i do n't have names apart from jan chose to play horatius at the bridge , while the others got the wounded upstairs .
more importantly , they brought the time for the girls upstairs to make a stand , while evacuating the young ones up to the next level .
the old man and he was a good friend of mine went out fighting to the last and brought the rest the seconds they needed .
he was near cut in half and managed to get one with his blade before he died .
the colonel paused for a bit before continuing .
upstairs , the girls had taken a position either side of the landing and were holding the crows off .
the crow commander then had his troops force an entry by blasting the wall with rpg 's .
unfortunately , they hit the nursery , which the younger girls were in the process of evacuating .
i 'm sorry you lost sixteen infants and young children when they put a hyperbaric into the room , as well as four of the defenders .
he paused again and watched her closely , waiting until she had rubbed the tears from her eyes before continuing .
another standoff then took place , as the survivors held the next stair .
at this point , the crows were out of grenades and were holding their position , while the reserves brought more ammo up .
this is the point where you took out their command group and started harrying the reserves .
unable to continue the push and with no effective command , the crow troops decided to get out of dodge they were over time and knew that local forces would soon be on the way .
you turned the battle .
sir , i should have left that damned ship and gone straight home ...
the colonel cut in and gotten cut up by the ships laser when they realized there was a sniper out there .
those boys knew their business .
you did what you were trained to do not leave an enemy behind you if you can .
look this will be with you all your life , so get this through your head right bloody now .
one you gave them the warning that prevented a successful first strike .
two you took out the command group at a critical time .
three you cut off their reinforcements and resup .
four you stopped them getting away to do it again .
jenny gave a weary hit of a smile .
thanks sir by the way what happened to their support ship ?
the colonel frowned .
they took off at the first sign of local forces activating .
an imperial courier ship got of a couple of long shots that looked like hits , but they managed to jump clear .
off the record , the ship was not crow design it was a damned traitor .
another mystery solved .
he continued the staff and the girls in particular put up one hell of a fight i 'm not one for such things , as you know , but there will be a bucket full of gongs handed out for this affair .
they tell me that you were the local cadet commander and played a lead roll in training those girls .
they did you great credit the way they conducted themselves right down to the youngest ... his voice faltered and jenny wondered what could affect the old warrior so .
composing himself with some difficulty , he continued .
in the remains of the nursery , we found one baby alive badly hurt , but saved by a girl of about eight years old who shielded her with her body ...
there were scenes like that everywhere kids not even in their teens dead holding empty carbines another who had thrown herself on a hand grenade a stabbed crow trooper with dead girl 's teeth locked onto his arm ... jenny , i 've seen some real hard fighting and this was some of the most intense right up there with assaulting a ship and that is as full on as it gets but this with kids ... jenny took a long drink from a water bottle .
at the mission we have a lot to do with the 'second chance ' settlement exchange programs with their school sporting contests and so on we all the staff and older girls have heard the first hand stories of those colonists being taken as slaves and what they suffered .
myself , i was very young and do n't remember hardly anything before being rescued , but those people have a philosophy of 'never forget ' .
i grew up with that and trained those girls hard for just what happened .
i should have done better though one of them got killed trying to snipe off the bell tower that never should have happened .
colonel john atkins regarded jenny for a moment .
she is going to make a fine officer and leader ' , he thought .
'she is looking at every detail to see what could have been done better if only she does n't drive herself too hard . '
now i have a bit of good news there the young lady in the bell tower survived .
she remembered her training well enough to get her head down smartly , but in her rush she fell down the ladder and broke her leg .
she will be up and about in a week .
before you ask , all i know is that she was about 13 years old .
the doors to the flight deck slid open and the pilot announced landing in ten minutes .
the colonel gestured to the medic who had been sitting quietly at the rear of the troop compartment , who brought up a bag and handed it to jenny .
get cleaned up there is a clean uniform in the bag got to at least get the worst of the blood and dirt off before going before the board .
he followed the medic through to the flight deck , leaving her to clean up .
what do you think doc ?
asked the colonel .
the 'medic' a military psychiatrist had been quietly observing jenny , while he read the brief on the mission incident .
sir , she seems to have come through as well as can be expected for somebody who has just lost a quarter of her family .
keep somebody close to her keep telling her she had done things right , just as you have been doing .
sop , really .
her background shows she is a survivor , her attitude and demeanor is what i would want to see in a potential officer i 'm giving her a provisional up check for her admission to the academy , but want to see her for a formal interview before she ships out .
that 's about how i see it too , major now let 's get this board out of the way .
in the 35th century , the saying 'justice delayed is justice denied ' has been taken to heart .
with laws minimized and rationalized and no such profession as lawyer , the delays of the 21st century are unheard of .
with crime a rare event , there are no longer courts as they used to be known .
justice as opposed to law is served by a senior member of the civil service , a senior commissioned officer or an aristocrat often a panel of all of these especially for serious crimes .
in this case , as there had been deaths , convention demanded a board of inquiry into the events .
governor bruce , as the planetary head of the ics , had pulled rank to head the board .
also sitting was lord hamilton , ranking aristocrat and the official representative lieutenant general retired smythe .
they had been in constant communication with the mission relief task force ever since the emergency was declared , and had spent the night going through the evidence collected at the scene .
the sergeant at arms shouted all rise , and the packed chambers stood as one , as the board took their seats .
the conference room was packed with the ranking ics , aristos and military .
most looked like they had been up all night many were wearing uniforms of their territorial units , as well as those of firefighters , ambulancers and rescue workers .
almost all had sidearms and a few had their carbines and rifles slung .
citizens , be seated , said the governor .
this board of inquiry into the incident at the cockatoo river mission will now proceed .
i have a volume of evidence of a most graphic and disturbing nature .
it is my order that this will not be broadcast in pictorial form .
those members of the public wishing to view this material shall have it made available through the usual channels .
good citizens the foul deeds committed do not need images to shape our conclusions here .
our finding are as follows all occupants , staff and associates of the cockatoo river mission are formally exonerated from any and all blame in this incident and are found to have acted lawfully in the killing of the assailants or associates involved in this raid .
the board determines the motive for the raid was to seize imperial citizens for the purposes of selling into slavery for financial gain .
all further investigations into the causation of the aforementioned incident are hear by passed to naval intelligence , pronounced the governor , resuming his seat .
after giving the audience a few minutes to talk amongst themselves he continued .
i now call for volunteers to form committees for the awarding of honors , civilian and military and for the repair and restoration of the cockatoo river mission .
the governor took a few minutes to select volunteers from the sea of raised hands then announced that a recess of one hour would take place , during which time refreshments would be served .
the groups split off into separate chambers and stewards carried in trays laden with food donated by the local service groups , as was traditional , from time immemorial .
jenny 's thought were far from food , but the province aristo , sir michael fordson , took her arm and steered her to the counter , placing a plate in her hand .
you look about all in , lass so eat up food is sleep .
you did a hell of a job out there i must apologize that i had not done more to ready the mission i should have foreseen ... jenny cut him off .
sir , we are all feeling that remember that you were the one who sponsored out cadet unit .
without those m114 's you brought the girls , i doubt they would have held the mission .
sir michael gave a snort i though i would be offering up a few words of consolation , but you have turned the tables on me yes , you will make a fine officer as i always thought , and i hope that you will return to yalumba when your service is done .
you can count on it sir mike , she replied .
but to the missions immediate need that i can help with in fact , we have been inundated with offers of assistance from all over the planet .
we will rebuild and restore the mission and we are already getting offers from old girls to come back and staff the place .
you have my word as a member of the imperial family that the events at the mission will never be forgotten .
now before the ics get hold of you will you travel with me to visit the field hospital after this ?
sir , of course i will .
the sergeant at arms sounded a gong , signaling the gathering to come to order .
the committees had reached their conclusions the empire did not work like old earth .
the spokesmen took the stand .
the committee for awards and decorations has concluded that on precedent , the defense of the cockatoo river mission was by a regularly constituted military unit and a serving member of a regular military unit , whilst on leave from active service , thus are eligible to receive full military honors .
the following honors are conferred cadet sub lieutenant williams cadet force commander is awarded the victoria medal of honor .
cadet sergeant bickle and trooper devries are awarded the combat star in gold .
cadet corporals anderson , williams and bryce are awarded the combat star in silver .
all other members of the cockatoo river mission cadet forces are awarded the combat star in bronze .
the following civilians are awarded the st. george cross posthumously blademaster kessel , dr joan deitrech , citizen wendy smith .
it is our recommendation and appeal to the herald of lists that battle honors be awarded to all who were involved in the cockatoo river incident and that a commemorative medal be struck and a suitable memorial be raised on the site .
god save the emperor .
the gathering rose , applauding .
as the applause died down the sergeant at arms struck his ceremonial staff on the floor and shouted party will now observe a minutes silence for the fallen .
the military stood to attention , while the civilians placed hand over heart in the sign of reverence .
after a long minute , the governor directed the relief committee to deliver its report .
good citizens it is the wish of the committee that all parties look well to the distressed .
the community of 'second chance ' has , by precedent , drawn the honor of sheltering the folk of the cockatoo river mission , until such time as their home is restored and repaired .
when the wounded are fit to travel , the third field hospital shall deploy to second chance for such time as is needed to rehabilitate the injured .
it pleases the committee to report that the estimated cost is already more than covered by public subscription , without redress to imperial relief funds .
the committee wishes to offer its thanks to the generosity of all citizens good and true .
as do we all , '' replied general smythe , the official representative .
jenny had hoped to miss out on the public spotlight with so many feats of bravery , but this was not to be .
the general turned to her and then the sergeant at arms was at her side , escorting her forward .
worthy citizens all here is our hope .
a young citizen passed through the hardest school on our planet and is now off to the imperial war academy the ultimate test of the warrior .
she will do well .
it is my hope this young lady and those like her will take the war to our enemy .
too long we have followed a policy of 'live and let live ' .
we must go forth and tear out the hearts of those who prey on our children .
trooper devries you are a weapon and now you go to be further honed into a weapon to tear deep into the foe go to your destiny with our blessings .
the assembly rose as one and cheered , clapped and continued doing so while the old man came down and led jenny off into the governor 's private chambers .
sorry to put you on the spot like that trooper , but right now our people need a hero and with the rest in hospital , you drew the short straw .
i do n't know if you have figured it out yet , but that is what you will spend the rest of your time on this planet being .
if you want a rest , look to the trip to old earth you will get none here , his voice softened , and for what it is worth from an old soldier , keeping flat out busy is the best thing for you right now .
welcome to the world of command .
it will only get harder , but it is the only job really worth doing .
the next weeks were exactly as the old general had predicted .
before mid morning local time , the story had flashed across the planet , along with an image taken as jenny entered the broken mission gates .
'avenger ' was the word most used as a title to the picture of jenny carrying her hunting rifle .
the story spread across the empire of man as fast as the courier ships and drones could travel and outrage was growing slowly but steadily , from system to system .
a sleeping giant was awakening .
on yalumba , jenny had little time for the saber rattling that was going on planet wide .
she was spending her waking hours doing all she could to rebuild the shattered community recruiting volunteers to staff the mission , directing repairs and spending as much time as she could with the wounded girls .
with the advanced medicine of the 35th century even on a backwater planet all those who survived the first day were on the road to recovery and the field hospital and staff would soon return to their usual posts .
it would be some months before new eyes , eardrums and limbs were grown for implantation , but the real work would be with the mental scars and a drone had been dispatched to new chicago to request a specialist redactor team .
35th century psychiatry actually worked .
with the resources of a prosperous world and a legion of willing volunteers , the mission was well on the way to being put back to new .
even the trees badly damaged by the bombing had been plucked out and replaced , using heavy lift sky cranes .
jenny had over ruled erasing all the damage she wanted the bullet pocked walls on the stairway to remain as a badge of honor for the defenders , so the stains were removed and the surface of the stone re sealed .
the hardest part was choosing a suitable memorial the survivors had delegated this task to her .
it seemed that every artist , architect or landscaper on the planet had submitted a proposal .
after much late night study , she chose a simple plan one done by a 'second chance ' artist the now famous acacia hedge and a lawn with iridium crosses .
this seemed the right one for the rural setting of the mission .
the artist had captured her interest by making the site the knoll from where she fired the shot that rang the bell .
the location would cost a few hectares of grapes , but there was no shortage of good land on the terraces and the cost of re establishing the plantings would not be an issue now .
there had been enough credit and labour pledged within first day to build the mission five times over .
as her six weeks of 'leave ' were ending and her transport to the academy was soon due to arrive , a familiar ship dropped into the system .
in tow was the freighter that had carried the raiders into imperial space .
yalumba 's picket ship received a brief transmission , along with an iff signal .
we have somebody you may be interested in talking to .
'hells mouth ' navigation hazard point singularity three weeks previously as soon as the freighter dropped out of subspace , the mass alarms started sounding .
cap'n we are in a huge gravity well but the singularity shows two light hours away oh crap .
it 's a tractor field !
the captain of the armed freighter and occasional pirate 'belle starr ' was working franticly at his sensor board .
this spot should have been clear they had rendezvoused here on many occasions .
slaving a camera towards the direction of the tractor , his blood ran cold as he saw the bulk of 'wotan 's fury ' bearing down on his ship .
he knew that this was no chance meeting somebody had sold him out .
dump the computer core , he shouted .
better to limp back on skip drive than to have jamieson find that evidence .
before they could activate the dump sequence , the hull breach alarms briefly sounded and the second officer slumped over his station .
a smell of burnt flesh and scorched plastic filled the room although there was no sign of a laser flash or a kinetic impact .
the automatics had swiftly sealed the hull and as the captain was wondering what the hell had just hit them , the comm screen lit up .
x ray laser do n't even twitch or i cook you where you sit , said commander hendrik .
stand by to be boarded .
the captain looked at his screens not believing what had just happened the hostile was thousands of kilometers away and had just fired a shot with unheard of precision .
for that matter they were well out of normal tractor field range and x ray lasers were only used in books and vids .
there must be another ship closer he started an instrument sweep , as he opened a voice channel to 'fury ' to try and stall for time .
what kind of piracy is this ?
we are an imperial registered freighter in free space you have no right too ...
commander hendrik cut him off .
cut the crap traitor you have been working with the crow slavers , who have sold you out .
just give me an excuse to burn you .
now the freighter crew was really staring to sweat .
it would be a simple matter of reading the flight recorder and tracing their movements .
from there , a forensic team would be sure to find some trace of their crow backers .
after watching the second officer get burned down , nobody was making any moves towards their station controls , until captain jacques realized that there was no way they could actually see onto the bridge , even if a well aimed shot could be fired at a workstation , using a plan of the ship .
he closed the audio channel , realizing there was no negotiating with jamieson 's hard nosed xo .
quick now they are bluffing .
start a soft data dump on the memory core and i will initiate auto destruct for one hour .
we ca n't leave any evidence for the damned navy .
i would n't do that , came from the bridge hatchway .
all the crew spun about in disbelief there could n't be anyone else on the ship .
wayne jamieson leaned casually against the bulkhead , swinging a short length of duralloy strut in his hand .
how the hell did you get on board ?
you should be asking when exactly did i get on board , wayne replied , implying that he had stowed away .
now will you co operate and get a nice clean death by laser ?
or is it to be the hard way ? ''
take him alive the fool has given us the perfect hostage .
you damned fool jamieson what do a bunch of stupid dirtyfoot colonists matter to you ?
the crew all rose , drawing knives and short swords and started to cautiously advance .
wayne made no move to draw his blade , simply saying , alright , the hard way it is .
then an image flashed through his mind .
an old memory two happy , smiling children and their mother .
the last time he saw them alive before they were killed by the likes of these pirates .
scum who had no regard for the consequences of their actions .
he thought of the children and staff of the mission that were sure to have died in the raid .
the old rage flared in an instant and wayne turned from a scientific , calculating fighter into a raging and deadly elemental force .
his intentions of disabling and capturing the crew were momentarily forgotten he had one thought hurt them .
time appeared to slow for him , as his synapses sped up five fold .
the others in the room moved like they were stuck in treacle .
a 600mm length of 30mm od duralloy pipe does n't appear to be much of a weapon , but in wayne 's hands it was as deadly as any sword .
with his augmented strength and speed , the pipe became a grey blur , flashing across the control room and burying itself deep in a crewman 's chest .
drawing a short 'hawksbeak ' knife , he pounced on the closest crewman , seizing his knife arm while tearing his chest open by plunging in the short , heavy blade and dragging it down , slicing through ribs .
he used the body as a shield to fend off his other assailants , until he had torn the chest open with a half dozen raking gouges .
the hapless crewman dead , wayne flung his body at another crewman , knocking him down .
he then pounced on another , repeating this performance .
on the third crewman , his knife stuck in a kevlar breastplate .
enraged , he threw his victim across the control room , leaving him in an unconscious and dying heap , after slamming into a wall .
ignoring the battle between jamieson and his crew , jacques had gone wide and was charging in fast , his short sword aimed at wayne 's exposed right flank .
as his blade was about to make contact , a terrible crushing pain flashed up his arm , as a hand like a vice grabbed it and squeezed with inhuman strength .
then he was hauled around and used as a flail , knocking down two of the remaining three crewmen , the force of this dislocating the captain 's arm at the shoulder and breaking the radius and ulna .
wayne seized the last crewman and tore out his throat with his teeth .
a killing punch to the temple ended the crewmans agony and as suddenly as it had come on , the white hot rage left him .
he then set about securing the living with plasticuffs and treating their more serious injuries they were not about to get off easy by dying .
jacques painfully propped himself up against a console .
you bastard !
what the hell are you ? ''
a very bad son of a bitch .
i thought everyone knew that . ''
how ... '' this place has always been a rendezvous point for pirates .
i happened by and found the crows you were going to meet up with .
i put them in a shuttle , moved them off with the tractor and they got downright talkative as they got close to that singularity .
they really believe it is hell 's mouth , by the way .
i gave them the opportunity to find out .
now i 'm sick of talking to you and i hear my marines . ''
wayne stepped over and covered jacques mouth with a strip of duct tape .
the marine boarding party entered the control room to find their captain watching over several semi conscious crewmen as he quietly smoked a cigar .
you need a medic sir ?
asked the senior marine , concerned at his blood soaked appearance .
no corporal , i 'm good but those three need medevac and there are two in engineering with busted heads that might be alive still .
ok sir , i 'll take care of it you need anything ?
just a shower , looking at your face .
wayne stood up and kicked one of the bodies .
get a work party up here and police this mess up double bonus for clearing my mess carry on corporal .
the marines jumped to attention and cleared a path for wayne to leave the bridge .
you heard the skipper volunteers you , you and you get this bridge squared away , barked the corporal .
he had seen the wolf in action before , but this was the first time the newer members had seen the aftermath of their commanding officer in action .
captain jacques awoke unable to move nor could he feel anything nothing .
finally awake , dickhead , snarled senior ship 's surgeon , lt lillian williams .
i wanted to say goodnight before i closed the pod .
you are going to have a nice rest on the way back to yalumba .
we have you all wired and tubed , so there is no need to get up .
it 's not to long a trip for us , even dragging your clapped out shitcan , but you may be getting a little lonesome by and by because i 'm not putting you to sleep .
never mind when we let you out there are some folks really keen to have a long chat with you .
give my regards to colonel linda hamilton an old friend of mine who works for navy intelligence .
we went to medical school together after we left the cockatoo river mission .
she will be the one unpicking your brain bit by bit so goodnight asshole .
one of the surviving crew members , fearing spacing , had become downright loquacious and had revealed the reason they were fleeing .
she slammed the lid shut and a med tech wheeled the pod away to secure storage .
she could get no information on the fate of her family and had a long three weeks in subspace before she would find out .
the only reason the captives were still alive was that she knew that she could do nothing that would result in more misery than a forensic mind picking ... cockatoo river incident memorial five years later .
wayne and jenny strolled slowly towards the mission , making the most of a few minutes of privacy .
it is true that time helps , '' said jenny .
but i do n't think the pain will ever go away .
i thought it would be just another mission and i would leave it all behind like we have all done before . ''
that was no ordinary time corp mission .
the corp has not had a lot of success with such deep insertions .
actually , you are the first successful one . ''
the other all failed ?
how many have there been ? ''
about twenty .
no other operator has survived with their mind intact they all went native and thought their past lives were a delusion .
it 's been 600 years since the last attempt good agents are too valuable to risk .
you had a unique profile that indicated you had a good chance .
in any case , i backed up your mind state to pre transfer .
that technology was n't around last time they tried . ''
no shit .
so how does the mission stand now ? ''
we just have the end game to play .
that is about ten years away .
until then , we are free to our own devices . ''
learning how to be better soldiers for the empire . ''
exactly so , although we are actually learning all this good stuff for ourselves . ''
something i never lose sight of now let 's get back in character .
the girls of the mission have intentions on stuffing us like a christmas goose then doc williams will be pouring the local brandy into us .
i do n't think i told you she resigned from 'fury ' just after you left for the academy and has been running the mission clinic . ''
sounds a lot better than yet another civic banquet .
i had heard that doc was there the girls kept in touch , even if it was just a message twice a year .
it 's going to be good to catch up for a few days . ''
the mission was mostly unchanged from when jenny had left over five years ago .
the differences were subtle , yet clear to a military mind .
discrete sensor arrays watched the countryside and the bell tower was now topped by an antipersonnel maser , fashioned to look like a weather vane .
trees and shrubs had been cleared or trimmed to give clear lines of sight near the buildings and the gates were now more than decorative .
this was not a case of locking the stable door after the horse had bolted .
this was a weather change throughout the outer worlds of the empire .
a realization that not only the new and under resourced colonies were vulnerable to predators .
news travels slowly through an interstellar civilization , but five years after the incident , the whole empire of man was now more vigilant , better prepared and stood ready .
now they knew that they could not let the vast distances of space be their shield against evil .
they were slowly accepting the fact that they would soon have to go forth from their comfortable existence and root out the evil that was the great hegemony of worlds .
this cult of death worshipers should have remained on old earth , but for weak men standing by and allowing evil to take place it was now amongst the stars and growing stronger .
the wheels of the empire turned slowly , but ground finely .
when the home worlds were secure , they would be able to set forth on the great crusade .
in the hour before dawn , wayne stood alone at the memorial gate , staring silently at the markers for the dead .
while he knew that the actions he had planned had saved many from a wretched existence , he was painfully aware that he could easily have prevented all of the deaths here .
like all commanders , he now , more than ever , felt the weight of carrying out his orders knowing that he had to sacrifice others to meet a larger goal .
and like all commanders from the dawn of time , he knew that he alone had to bear that burden other books by this author in order meddlers in time meddlers in time out of the frying pan , into the fire available at smashwords .
gema a trooper 's tale peter pj '' jackson published by peter jackson at smashwords .
copyright 2012 peter jackson license notes this e book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this e book may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
cover design rita toews photography joshua eckert other books by the same author dire straits a troopers tale a troopers wife .
one sole desire , one passion now remains to keep life 's fever still within his veins , vengeance !
dire vengeance on the wretch who cast o'er him and all he lov 'd that ruinous blast .
author thomasmoore source lalla rookhthe veiled prophet of khorassan part 1 chapter 1 mahakam river , borneo .
1965 wening turned on her thin , rattan , sleeping mat .
it was still dark , the night sounds coming through the open shutters .
she could see the faint outline of her husbands chest rising and falling to the rhythm of sleep hear the gentle snoring of bapi and ibu her parents , next door , through the thin , woven wall .
she lay there , unable to get back to sleep , contemplating the days work ahead and thinking of how much the family missed the contribution that would have been made by her children if they were still in the longhouse .
her husband , suparman alatus , hardly let a day go by without bringing up the decision to send their daughter , gema , north to live with the whites of the long black dresses .
these men who had tried to convince them that there was only one god and it was their god .
everyone knew that the god semangat lived in everything and everyone .
everyone knows that we inherit the souls of our forebears .
who are they to tell us different ?
but that was eight wet seasons ago .
now , gema , would be twenty three summers old.a woman .
was she married , had she been tattooed as was required ?
her fingers had been done , the song irang , when she was ten .
her forearms should have been done by now but she had left for another life .
suparman had seen her just three years ago on a trip upriver to trade for the iron but here , in the land of the orang ulu , there was no news , no travelers .
no more raiders even .
not since the time the japanese had come up the river to long alat in their strange clothing , with their language that no one could understand , with their weapons .
but that was over twenty years ago .
i know , in my heart , that gema is well and happy , she thought , im her mother , the spirits would tell me if all were not well , but what of susilo ?
she sat up , naked , her body tattoos glowing blue in the moonlight .
where are you susilo , why did you leave ?
her firstborn , susilo , just two years older than gema , had always been a problem .
he much preferred sitting at his grandfathers feet listening to tales of the old days before the japanese came , tales of the warring between the tribes of the orang ulu , tales of the taking of heads and the spirits that came with them to the benefit and protection of the rumah panjaithe longhouse .
he was far more interested in hunting the muntjak , the deer that barks like a dog and their main source of meat , than working in the padi fields alongside everyone else .
three years ago , in the middle of the dry season , the family sitting in the traditional circle on the tempuan outside their entrance , he had simply saidim leaving the village .
the following morning he was gone .
he was seen heading in the direction of the night star and that was the last they knew or ever heard of him .
she missed her children.particularly gema.who should have been a man.a warrior of the kayan .
did she favor gema over him , is that why he left ?
it was never spoken of .
gema had always strived to be the best at what she undertook .
she was never afraid of work or the commitment , susilo , on the other hand , always looked for the shortcut ... ... the easy way .
she had watched them play fight as was traditional .
gema always seemed to let her brother win even though he was older , bigger and stronger .
she stood up , stretched and stepped into her chawat , the short skirt made of bark , slipped on the old , stained tee shirt her husband had picked up for her on one of his trading trips and walked over to the window .
it was still dark , still quite a while before the sun came up over the tree canopy to the east .
she could barely make out the shape of the longhouse against the background of the jungle , a seeming wall of vegetation , home to her people , her clan.. the kayan .
the longhouse was of an average size , housing twenty families in all , with the communal ruai , the common veranda , running the length of the building .
below her , almost twenty feet down , was the soah , the open area in front of the longhouse , used for larger gatherings and on festival days .
how lucky i am to be the wife of the tuai ramah , she thought .
the village chieftain traditionally had larger quarters than the rest of the villagers with additional rooms for close family .
it would be too crowded if bapi and ibu had to live in the same room with us .
if susilo were here he would be either married or living in the bachelor huts and surely gema would be already married and i would be a grandmother .
she sighed and turned away shaking her head listening to suparman grunting in his sleep .
how can he just sleep like that ?
she looked at him from the window , as though there is nothing to be concerned about .
she gazed at him fondly , middle aged now but still strong and proud .
we need meat , at least that will get him out of here for a while with my father .
she knelt by the fireside and , blowing on the embers , started the fire to cook the morning meal the smoke rising up through the hole in the roof .
the animals below their bilik , the chickens and pigs , started to rouse themselves and she could hear her father moving about in the room next door .
the noise woke her husband .
its still early , she said , stay there for a while .
youll be gone soon on the hunt so you might as well enjoy it while you can .
he lay back on his mat looking up into the gloom of the rafters through the faint haze of smoke from the morning fire .
the shrunken heads , wrapped in their ritual woven leaves , hanging there looked down on him .
they were his father in laws pride , his contribution to the peace of the bilik .
he remembered his own father telling him of the tradition and how the soul inhabited the head and how the taking of the head in battle brought that soul into their home and combined with the other spirits to bring peace and prosperity to the family .
he remembered his own father , strong in battle before the longskirts came , adept with the traditional weapons of the orang ulu , his father killed by the japanese for no reason , together with his mother and sister .
he remembered the stories , the history of his people , passed down from generation to generation as was the custom , the concept of clan and family , the importance of protecting both , the responsibility for the maintenance of their tradition .
he desperately hoped that he had passed everything down to both his children and that it was sufficient for them to live honorable lives in the tradition of the kayan .
wening thinks i never worry about gema and susilo .
how can i discuss this with her ?
i am a man , i am tuai , i can not show this weakness .
they are my children , the children of warriors .
they will have learned enough at my feet .
the sun came up , seeming to rise out of the very jungle , the heat lying on the village like a blanket , the humidity already almost one hundred percent a background to the early morning chatter of the macaque monkeys as they woke to another day .
down the slope from the rumah panjai the coffee colored river slid by , sinister in its silence and high even in the middle of the dry season , its surface broken only by the odd whirlpool and floating , rotting logs , the far bank crowded by the jungle chaos of central borneo .
slowly the village came to life , smoke curling from the breakfast fires , childrens laughter coming from the individual biliks , young men feeding the livestock under the longhouse .
tomorrow your father and i will hunt , said suparman as they sat cross legged on the rattan mat , eating their morning meal from the communal bowls , today we will prepare .
he was a short man but muscular , heavy earrings distending his ear lobes , his body covered in traditional tattoos and his teeth blackened and sharpened as was the style of the orang ulupeople of the upper river .
i do not know how many days we will be .
your father is getting old now and slower .
wening looked at her father cross legged on the rattan .
he was in his sixties , by now extremely old by dayak standards , his face a mass of wrinkles around his now toothless mouth .
he stood now in his chawat .
i am kayan as were all my forebears .
i have fought my enemies as did my father before me , he said looking up at the heads hanging in the rafters , if i can not keep up you may leave me , he said proudly .
wening stood up and climbed down the notched log to the soah below .
do not spend all day arguing you two , she called up , you have things to do today before leaving tomorrow .
she looked at the ladder and the veranda twenty feet up .
my husband is right about my father .
i have seen the difficulty he now has climbing up to our bilik , the difficulty he has chewing his food , the looks of pain from wounds sustained years agothe old way .
he is too proud..but he will hunt tomorrow .
she looked back at the longhouse that had been her home all her life remembering the times spent with her children gema and susilo .
the pain of their first tattoos , their first lessons in silat , the form of martial arts taught to the kayan , rolling in the dust in the beginning as it was just a game , a game that got to be a daily regimen of offense and defense , discipline and patience as they got older .
each being taught that they were equally responsible for the defense of their community .
each drilled in the old waystheir heritage instilled in them.gema always leading the way..a girl !
she looked down the well beaten path to the rice padi by the river .
the harvest will be on us soon .
ibu will want to talk about the gawai.the festival , she thought .
the day passed ..a normal day..the hot sun marching across the sky as it did every day .
suparman and bapi spent the time preparing their weapons and discussing the coming hunt for the muntjak .
when we return we must look for the kawi tree , said suparman , our family canoe , our pirahu , will not last much longer .
we should carve another before the rains .
i will look for a tree as close to the water as possible .
with your experience , bapi , you should supervise the carving .
thank you for your confidence , said bapi grinning toothlessly at his son in law .
in the distance , into the sun , they could see the flash of the parang blades as villagers attacked the edge of the jungle , a daily battle .
if left , the jungle would quickly overrun the clearing and the rice padis leaving only the ironwood stilts of the longhouse as witness to the clans passing .
we will take rice for four days , said suparman , we will leave at first light .
so there passed another day to the rhythm of tranquil village life , to the rhythm of the seasons , the rhythm of the ages .
the sun rose in the sky , baking the sweating land beneath it and quickly settled behind the canopy of the jungle as it did yesterday and would do tomorrow .
as night settled on the village so did the night sounds of the jungle interspersed with the happy chatter of the villagers and the laughter of the children all gathered on the raui for the traditional telling and sharing of stories .
the following morning , at that time of day when the world seems to hold its breath , that time between night and day , the sun imminent over the trees to the east they came ... ... .. six small boats , ten to a boat , quietly from the south against the current , guided by one who knew the way .
six small boats pulling up on the mud to the side of the rice padi .
ten men left to guard the boats , fifty , in line abreast , advancing through the green , knee high rice , advancing on the longhouse not yet awake to the new day ... ... ..to the threat ... ... to danger .
suparman was already awake as was bapi , moving about the bilik , collecting the cold rice , prepared the previous day for the hunt , trying not to waken wening .
bapi paused , one foot in the air , holding one finger to his lips .
it was quiet but more so than usual this morning .
what was missing ?
the night sounds !
even the animals below the house were quiet .
the very jungle seemed to be holding its breath , waiting .
settling to the floor he crawled across to the door and out onto the raui .
looking over the rail he saw them advancing through the rice .
raiders , he whispered to suparman , warn the others .
the visitors continued their quiet orderly advance .
no traditional dress , no traditional weapons .
green jungle fatigues and boots , well armed , disciplined soldiers .
the sun suddenly burst upon the new day but up behind the menacing line .
up sun.they knew what they were doing .
they had almost disappeared in the glare .
the first rpg hit the longhouse before suparman could warn anyone , the grenade exploding in a shower of lethal ironwood setting the roof ablaze .
automatic fire raked the building , the thin , woven walls offering no protection .
the attackers had divided , ten to the south , ten to the north in a pincer movement cutting off any escape , the remaining thirty coming on at the double .
bapi , bow in hand , slithered down the notched log ladder .
the bullet took him square in the chest as he reached the bottom .
his final thought being , were short of meat and i wont be hunting today , then the darkness .
the next few rpg rounds walked down the length of the longhouse killing most of the clan before any sort of defense could be organized .
wening and ibu died looking at bapi crumpled on the red earth made redder by the blood from the huge exit wound in his back .
as the remaining families fled the burning building they were cut down by the automatic fire .
some tried to make it to the river but were targeted by the one who seemed to know .
within fifteen minutes it was all over , the visitors splitting up and ensuring that no one was left alive.no witness .
the injured were dispatched with the parang .
their orders were no one was to be spared , no man , no woman no child .
suparman was one of the last .
he died , a warrior of the kayan , charging twentieth century weapons with bow and parang .
they left as quietly as they arrived leaving the bodies where they had fallen , the sun heating the soa in front of the burning longhouse , the smoke rising high into the windless sky .
a funeral pyre ... ..the stink of burning flesh filling the air .
the boats ran easily downstream to join the mighty mahakam flowing south into kalimantan .
the jungle looked on , came back to life and began its work of recovering what had always been its own .
chapter 2 kuching , sarawak several days later .
it had been a long , relatively quiet night , trooper jennings looked at the clock on the wall for the twentieth time .
that bloody irishman is late again , he thought , the night duty watch is bad enough without having to wait for him ... .. bastard !
jennings was attached to hq a squadron 22 sas .
regimental hq had been moved to labuan , far to the east , an island off the coast of brunei but a small detachment had been left in kuching in support of the four troops that operated in western sarawak and kalimantan barat to the south .
he knew why he had been detached of course , his malay was excellent and he had an aptitude for troop logistics .
still he would have preferred the white beaches and breezes of labuan .
it was 0815 hours and already hot .
the fan , slowly turning in the ceiling , did nothing but move hot air from one end of the room to the other , why in hell are we in a block building ?
he thought , the bloody walls are still hot from yesterday .
morning corp , said ohara striding into the office .
dont call me corp you moron , what time of the morning do you call this ?
said jennings standing up .
sorry corp got held up .
ohara was always happy probably his most irritating trait , ex irish guards but a reliable trooper , loved to fight .
jennings stood up , stretching his back , thinking about breakfast and a shower , not that the water ever got cold .
jakarta radio is going on about some massacre over the border , talking about atrocities , claiming were responsible , better pass it on to the captain when he comes in .
might want to recommend we bring in the interpreter too , she might be able to pick up on nuances that i missed , said jennings .
morning paddy , what are you still doing here jennings , tea on yet , anything happen during the night we need to know about ?
captain mason stood in the doorway , an averagely tall career soldier , developing a bit of a paunch which he felt obliged to suck in .
fair haired , a chin that receded more than he liked and a moustache hed been trying to grow for weeks .
just leaving sir , said jennings , kettles on and trooper ohara can bring you up to speed .
whats he on about paddy ?
said the captain walking over to his office .
apparently sir radio jakarta is having a rant about an attack on a kayan village over the border south of kapit .
theyre claiming mass murder and that they have proof it was our blokes , said ohara .
hmmm.a team has been in that general area for quite a while now , said mason , trouble is weve no communication with them .
probably wont get to talk to them for another week or so when they slog out so no help there .
keep an ear out and make sure jennings is kept up to speed .
if jakarta starts making a real noise about it we might want to kick it upstairs , said mason as though talking to himself , bastards would like nothing better than to make us look bad just now .
jennings suggested we might bring gema in.see if shes heard anything , said paddy trying to keep his voice as neutral as possible , she could listen to the recording see if he missed anything , might also be a good idea to get a hold of that army newspaper the indos are printing just now , damn thing seems to be everywhere .
at the mention of gemas name dickies mind went back to the day she applied at regimental hq for a job as interpreter only a few days after he took command of the troop and just before regimental hq was transferred to labuan far to the east .
lt colonel gurney , officer commanding a squadron , had suggested he talk to her as they would be leaving an operational intelligence team in kuching and a multi lingual interpreter might prove to be invaluable .
the fact that she was also kayan might also prove to be a tremendous asset in the teams attempts to win the hearts and minds of the local population over the border in borneo .
he remembered her coming into his office .
a slim , petite woman dressed in a long black skirt and white blouse buttoned to the neck , more in the thai style than the traditional bright colors of the dayak .
her hair was long and jet black , hanging below her waist .
as she walked to his desk it swung heavily and shone in the lamplight .
her skin was much lighter than he expected and her features more eurasian than the mongol , more typical of her tribe .
please sit down miss suparmanputri .
she smiled as she sat down , carefully smoothing her skirt .
thank you captain but you might prefer to call me gema its so much less of a mouthful .
her english was excellent , spoken with a lilting sound that made it sound all the more attractive .
shed told him of her early years spent in the longhouse , living the traditional life of the orang ulu , of her parents and grandparents .
she told him of the coming of the missionaries and how her parents had sent her north to learn a new life .
she now spoke her native language butak plus english , dutch , malay and a smattering of mandarin .
she could read and write english , malay and dutch .
butak had no written language that she knew of .
she seemed to have an inner strength .
she did not boast of her accomplishments just stated them as fact .
she sat there impassively , calmly , only her eyes giving away her excitement she was twenty three .
she was the most beautiful woman the young captain had ever seen .
he had dinner with her a couple of times .
he tried to convince himself he did this to learn more of her culture as he would have teams operating in the vicinity of her old home .
in this he was quite correct but the truth was he enjoyed her company and she was a refreshing change to the male dominated regiment..something soft in a very hard world .
what an enigma she was .
she straddled , with ease , two opposing ways of life .
the first the one of the twentieth century with the noise , the technology , all the amenities taken for granted the other a quantum step back in time , not just a century or two but back an entire age .
her grandfather , bapi , still alive and living with her parents , had been a head hunter before the japanese occupation .
lord god .
they still had heads hanging in the rafters of their home .
her father and bapi still hunted the old way in the borneo jungle .
they had almost no contact with the outside world .
she could only remember one contact in the first fifteen years of her life that being when the missionaries came up the river , how she had hidden inside the tree line .
she recounted how her father , in the evenings after the communal meal , told the stories of how the raiders came , their interest being the taking of slaves..and heads .
she remembered her father and grandfather talking of the warriors honor , of family , the jungle and the respect they had for the animals that inhabit it .
yet here she was , sitting in a restaurant in kuching , white linen on the table , self assured , self sufficient having dinner with him , welbeck college , sandhurst academy .an officer and a gentleman , an enigma indeed !
he thought of the problems if he got involved with her , a serving officer and an indigenous native woman , socially unacceptable at best probably behavior unbecoming at worst .
captaincaptain , oharas brogue brought him back to the present with a jolt .
would you be wanting me to give herself a call and ask her to come in ?
mason thought for a moment and said , yes but dont tell her what its about , it might be a bit close to home for her .
we need some facts .
this afternoon will be fine , let me know , wheres that bloody tea ?
sitting in his office , gazing at the blank wall , he thought to himself.we cant possibly get into any discussion concerning cross border incursions .
christ we dont even like admitting that we exist .
public knowledge of the paras , the ghurkas or the royal scots guards is one thing , knowing of the very presence of the regiment is unacceptable .
best thing is to wait and see for the time being .
he picked up the phone.paddy get mudd in here , if you can find him , and let me know about the interpreter as soon as you know something .
mason thought about george mudd .
sergeant george edward mudd mm , 1st parachute regiment now trooper mudd in c team b troop a squadron 22 sas .
funny how they dont mind giving up rank when they join the regiment , he thought .
plenty of jungle experience in malayaspeaks fluent malay.a career soldier , a quiet spoken man given to almost whisperinga jungle habit , a hard man , a team man .
you sent for me sir ?
mudd at attention in front of his desk , he hadnt even heard him come in , his boots being so quiet .
relax sticky .
pull up a chair .
wan na cuppa ?
the trooper sat down and , crossing his legs , studied the captain as he poured the tea .
no tie , in his shirtsleeves , recognizing the lack of military formality expected by the troopers .
he was a para so he cant be all bad , thought george , dont know if he likes being stuck behind a desk , getting a bit of a gut there .
seems to be a fair sort of bloke , likes to have all the information before he makes a call , certainly supports the teams .
mason took a sip of his tea .
you were south of kapit a few months agowhats it like in there ?
we were in there before the additional squadrons arrived in theatre so we were just a three man team , said george , makes it a bit more hectic but we managed , had a border scout take us through , dropped us off about ten miles in .
we set up an observation post overlooking the river and a couple of well used tracks .
yes i know that george but what was it actually likethe going ?
george cast his mind back to the difficulty of that particular incursion..his fourth .
as you know sir it was a claret operation .
its pretty much like the rest of central borneo except more hilly , said mudd smiling at the memory .
bloody well and impenetrable crap , you could never see more than ten feet .
you have to stay off the tracks , the ridges , the rivers , as you know otherwise wed never get out of there alive .
usual stuff..bugs.mud in the wet.heat.sores ... .leaches galore..trying to leave no sign , no chance of re supply , normal day at the office , he said laughing .
why do you ask ?
theres some sort of stink brewing down there .
jakartas claiming some sort of massacrea little further south i think.probably the headwaters of the mahakam .
apparently some village or other got wiped out and theyre claiming were the bad guys .
we inserted a team over a month ago but theres no talking to them for the time being .
im going to do a bit more digging around then talk to the boss , might have to send you in to have a looksee .
mason took another sip of his tea .
if we can get the scouts to better identify the location and its within range of the whirlwind we could rope you in .
youd set up observation , sit tight for as long as you think necessary then reconnoiter and try and figure out what the hell happened there .
if its quiet we can chopper you out , if not.shoot and scoot .
well establish an alternative lz .
anyway george start thinking about it , team of four , ill be in touch .
george stood up , came to attention and turned towards the door .
george..by the way..we just took delivery of the new armalites .
you might want to get yourself and your guys qualified on them .
if you do go in you could take them alongsort of give em a test drive so to speak .
theyre a lot lighter than the fln but a smaller caliber , george paused .
anything that means less to hump in there has my vote sir , he said , as long as it stops the bad guy .
ohara tapped on the door frame and stuck his head in .
interpreter will be here at 1500 hours if thats okay sir ?
thatll be fine paddy .
see if you can find a biscuit to go with this tea and get one for yourself .
the rest of the day was routine yet dragged for dickie mason waiting for the interpreter .
gema was punctual .
jeez it wasnt so long ago that she learned to tell the time , thought dickie , bloody amazing really .
hello there gem , how are you this afternoon ?
sit yourself down theres a couple of things i want to run by you .
gema , wearing her customary black skirt but an emerald green , silk blouse , sat down on the hard chair in front of the desk .
trooper ohara !
paddy stuck his head around the door , get miss suparmanputri a cuppa and see if you can find her one of those biscuits..if weve any left .
mason struggled to get his mind on the business at hand .
gema was almost glowing in front of him , her skin and jet black hair set off by the bright green blouse ..her eyes twinkling well aware of his discomfort .
gem you know we keep a radio watch on radio jakarta ?
gema nodded quite prepared to let him speak .
theyre claiming that were responsible for an attack on a longhouse south of kapit just a few miles over the border .
i , or rather we , were wondering if youd heard anything .
gema looked up her lips tight , it was obvious she was fighting to control herself .
ive heard the same broadcast , she said , what would worry me is that theyre being very specific which is unusual , usually they generalize .
its obvious that theyre just trying to generate some propaganda mileage .
this time theyre being quite graphic with some very specific numbers .
the only thing they havent done is blame any specific unit , she looked down at her hands .
her knuckles were white and mason could see the tiny tattoos stretched on the backs of her fingers .
theres something shes not telling me , thought mason , but now is not the time .
ill get to it later .
gem , whats the name of that newspaper their armys publishing now ?
she looked up more composed now .
its called angkatan bersendjata and from what i understand its the only newspaper being published in indonesia just now , theyve shut all the others down .
its obvious theyre using it to incite the muslims and get them onside plus as a tool to spread propaganda .
mason marveled at her english .
he could not get it out of his head that just a few years ago this beautiful , literate girl lived in a longhouse in the heart of the borneo jungle with a head hunter for a grandfather .
god , im a long way from hereford , he thought .
she brought him out of his reverie .
ive seen a copy recently but theres no mention of this thing youre talking about , you should certainly keep an eye on it .
he let her finish her tea and walked her to the door .
trooper ohara ..see she gets home safely its almost the end of your watch .
ill keep an eye on things here until jennings get in .
he sat at his desk .
what is it shes so upset about ?
he thought , its just rumor , propaganda.or is it ?
he had a sickening feeling in the pit of his stomach that stayed with him until he fell asleep in his billet that night his dreams alternating between erotic thoughts involving gema , bloody contorted bodies lying in green padi and dried out , sightless eyes watching him from the rafters .
he didnt have to wait too long the following morning .
boss is on the phone , called paddy .
morning dickie.ron gurney here , howre things ?
ron gurney , lieutenant colonel , late of the brigade of guards , officer commanding a squadron calling from labuan far to the east .
not too much sir , got the new armalites the other day so were busy getting everyone qualified..not sure if everyone likes them that much but time will tell .
were also well into the training of a new group of border scouts .
sounds good to me , said gurney , but whats this im hearing about jakarta claiming were responsible for war crimes ?
dont know too much about it yet sir , responded mason , had the interpreter in here yesterday shes hearing the same thing but so far theres nothing in the papers .
hmmmm , gurney was quiet for a few seconds .
ok , heres how well play it .
if they persist in this try and get a location from the scouts .
perhaps a fly over of the general area if you think its within range of the whirlwinds .
once you get an idea of the location it might pay us to send a team in for a recce .
with you there sir , ive already had a chat with mudd .
got him thinking about it .
he was down in that area a few months ago , tells me its not exactly his favorite part of the country .
gurney started to laugh .
george mudd , master of the understatement , if he had that to say it must be god awful bad , anyway , dickie , keep me in the loop , if you need any help let me know .
gurney was quiet for a few seconds .
dickie .whilst i have you on the phone whats this i hear about you and your interpreter ?
its a small world you know .
im not trying to interfere with your private life but in an organization such as ours we have to earn and then keep the trust of the troopers .
we dont want them talking behind our backs .
dickies heart took a lurch .
i hear what youre saying sir and i agree with you one hundred percent .
shes quite the asset , being kayan and multi lingual .
she gives us insights that we probably couldnt see for ourselves .
i will certainly take what you have said under advisement .
will there be anything else sir ?
no thatll be all , dickie , keep me informed about this propaganda thing .
bye for now .
dickie hung up the phone thinking on what the colonel had had to say .
hes quite right of course .
after all he is the co and has to be concerned about anything that might impact the readiness and effectiveness of the squadron..but how do i really feel ?
trooper ohara.get mudd back in here..quick as you can .
it was almost two hours before george mudd arrived at the block building that served as troop hq .
where the hell have you been sticky ?
asked mason , weve been looking all over for you and your team , couldnt find a bloody soul .
george grinned , ive had the whole team blasting away with those new armalites down at the range , took us a while to get cleared away and back here .
so whats the verdict ?
verdict on what sir ?
asked george .
the armalites mudd , isnt that what were talking about ?
retorted the captain sounding irritated .
whats eating him ?
thought george , not like him to be like that , maybe hes not getting any .
well sir.they feel like a bloody bb gun.mostly plastic .
theyre certainly lighter but some of the fellas are not keen on them being in 5.56 mm .
theyre wondering if they have the same stopping power of the fln being in 7.62plus the fact that they dont have the range of the fln .
for jungle warfare they might be really good but we dont know yet what sort of foliage deflection we might get .
one curious thing is that the bores seem to get a lot dirtier and quicker than the fln , in combat that might be an issue on automatic fire .
mudd started to laugh , seems like a long answer to a pretty simple question .
mason laughed with him , youre right george and im sure well have some teething problems , just hope nobody gets kia before we get everything sorted .
sorry i was a bit short with you just now , got a lot on my mind .
no worries sir , said george smiling , whats happening with the other thing ?
im going to try the easy way first sticky , said mason , ill send a whirlwind out , see if they can spot the location .
well use the one we use for reconnaissance , its got the extra fuel tanks , theyll probably needem .
if that doesnt work well have to insert a border scout team see if they can figure things out .
one way or another youll be going in , just a question of when.by the way the colonel is involved , called me about it this morning.must be more of a flap on than we thought .
george thought for a moment looking at the floor if its where they claim its on the river which means theres padi fields .
if its not hot we could rope in , damn sight easier than slogging in from a few miles out .
we could do a quick recce then find a decent op and sit tight for a whilesee if theres any activity.then take a real good look around .
sound ok to you sir ?
mason stood up and paced over to the windowthinking .
if you roped in you could take one of those new radios .
we could set up a listening post on the border..organize the extraction when youre ready .
make sure you take a camera with you this time george , we might need some evidence .
roping in you wont have to worry too much about the weight but , for the time being , lets keep all our options open.you might want to think about dropping in too .
sounds good to me sir , if its ok with you ill take the normal fire team.downer , brenner , mcelroy and myself of course .
ill get brenner checked out on the new radios straight away .
hes one of the guys that likes the m16 but i think its more a weight issue with him , ill stick with the fln for now .
ok georgeget the team sorted , ill send the chopper out tomorrow .
hopefully theyll get lucky , save us a lot of agro .
start getting your kit together and be prepared to leave the day after tomorrow but , like i said , leave all the options open .
that evening he picked gema up at her flat down by the water and they walked on the beach .
you know im glad i didnt take the posting to labuan theres nothing too much wrong with this beach , he said .
the moon shone , creating a pathway down the quiet water like daylight .
the beach glistened white in the light , the palms rustling gently in the evening onshore breeze .
im glad too , said gema .
she had taken her shoes off enjoying the feel of the sand between her toes .
you know.at first i hated shoes and took them off every chance i had .
even now im not too keen on them but its expected..but not on the beach .
she ran ahead of him , sure footed on the uneven footing , shoes , dangling by the straps , in her hand .
he couldnt keep up with her .
she ran into the palms lining the beach.and disappeared .
he stood there wondering what had happened.what the hell ?
he listened for her but all he could hear was the rustling of the palms and the gentle surf of the south china sea curling up onto the beach .
he walked fifty yards further and then back.no sign..no sound .
rather than see her , or hear her for that matter , he sensed her presence at his side .
he was startled.she was just suddenly there .
she laughed and turned to face him .
remember , dickie , i am dayak more than that im kayan .
the jungle is my friend and companion .
it can keep me , it can feed me , it can help me and yes it can hide and protect me if that is my need .
i just didnt want you to forget that .
he looked down at her .
he was at least a head taller .
she looked so fragile but he knew she was far tougher than he was .
he wanted to reach out and hold her but didnt dare .
she took a step backwards and looked up at him .
kissing is unknown in my culture , she said , and you look at me the way my father looks at my mother when she is asleep .
she reached up and , taking his head in her hands , drew it down to where her neck joined her shoulder .
take a deep breath in through your nose , she whispered .
she smelled of cinnamon , of citrus .
she smelled the way he imagined a wild doe might smell .
she just stood there , holding his head letting him breathe .
the iban of orang ulu do this instead of kissing , she whispered , you breathe in a part of my spirit and parts of those spirits that also inhabit my body .
to him , it was one of those moments in life when everything stands still .
there is no sound , there is no movement .
nothing exists on earth other than this girl , with the wide open eyes , standing in front of him .
they walked back to her flat by the water in silence , holding hands like young lovers , both aware that something momentous had happened but neither prepared to talk about it .
he didnt want to break the spell .
didnt want to tell her what he came down to the beach to tell her .
he didnt want the ugly world to intrude .
he left her at the door and drove back to his billet .
he shook his head , the native girl and the british officer.how could it ever be ?
got ta be out of my mind .
dick mason spent most of the following day finding it difficult to focus , the moonlit beach and the feel of gemas skin at the forefront of his mind .
theres a flight officer wilkinson here to see you sir .
show him in paddy , said mason .
wilkinson was a tall , blonde haired officer who looked young enough to be still in school .
his blue tunic had the top button undone like a fighter pilot of the last war .
so what have you got for us ?
asked mason .
i think we found it sir .
we did a grid search starting at the headwaters of the east branch of the mahakan .
we didnt want to get in range of any ground fire but we could see a couple of good sized rice padis but no sign of life .
we hung around for as long as fuel allowed but never saw a soul , i think its a good bet sir .
weve logged the coordinates and i can pinpoint it on the map for you , if im right its called long alat .
thanks flight officer , great job , youve saved us a load of trouble and effort .
im sure my boys will be delighted with the intel , said mason , do you have any photos ?
yes sir , took a whole slew of em , said wilkinson , theyre being developed as we speak .
later that evening , with a cooling on shore breeze finding its way through the slats of the shutters , the troopers of c team gathered in the captains office around a huge wall map of the entire island .
pinned to the sides of the map were prints of the photographs taken by f.o .
wilkinson earlier that day .
as usual the maps no bloody good to man nor beast , whispered downer .
mason smiled , it was still hard for him to accept the total lack of customary military discipline with the troopers .
youre quite right harry , said mason , but it at least gives you a sense of where youre going .
i know youve been in the general vicinity before so you pretty much know what to expect .
the photographs were taken from several thousand feet but it was easy to make out the rice padis by the river , the red , packed earth of the soah and what looked like the remains of a longhouse .
it was easy to see the general lay of the land with the brown river snaking off into the distance and the solid green of the jungle canopy .
hell of a sight better in color , said downer , cant believe we were in that stuff , down there you dont get to see diddly .
mudd grinned mirthlessly , well harry , you should be used to it by now , were going back !
what do you fellas think ?
robbie mcelroy , towering over everyone else said , how are we going to be inserted george ?
mudd , looking at the captain said , we were originally thinking of roping in off one of the whirlwinds as its well within range but im having other thoughts now .
peter brenner chipped in , theres no point in letting everyone know were there .
those padis are so large theyd be difficult to miss and theres not much wind at this time of the year .
id feel safer doing a halo jump .
weight is still not a big issue and we can all land together .
when were done , if its quiet , we could use the whirlwind for extraction .
captain mason looked up from the photo he was holding in his hand , i agree with brenner , keep it as quiet as possible .
brenner youll be jumping with the new radio.dont bust it theres a good chap .
ive organized a listening post our side of the border just south of kapit , you can give them a ring when necessary .
the group laughed at masons casual approach , understanding that he was making light of putting them in harms way .
mason slid the one photo he was holding into a manila envelope and turned to mudd .
what about weapons george ?
mudd thought for a few seconds .
unless anyone has other ideas this is how id like to see it .
peter , you have the radio so go with the m16 .
harry , you take the m16 too , you cant hit anything beyond a couple of hundred yards anyway .
robbie , id like you to take the bren again .
although the armalites can fire on automatic i want you guys to set to three round bursts .
if we have to fire across the clearing the bren will be useful just make sure you dont do what you did last time , make sure its 7.62 mil .
ill take the fln which makes the ammo inter changeable .
three hundred rounds a man plus an extra two hundred for robbie and i , grub and water for two weeks .
harry , youre medic this time , any questions ?
brenner , the yorkshireman , asked , whats the codename for the job and the extraction ?
mason said , youre the radioman , peter , you pick .
ok sir..the insertion is roundhay park , the extraction code is leeds united .
bloody yorkshireman , said downer laughing .
ok gentlemen , said the captain , take off is 0400 hundred hours the day after tomorrow .
best i can do is a dakota but itll get you there .
tomorrow draw your kitcheck out your own chutes..remember the objective is to reconnoiter the area to determine what , if anything , happened .
george will have the camera , photograph everything and anything .
if you trip up over any bad guys..shoot and scootwe need the intel .
an alternative lz is out of the question due to the terrain so if we cant send in the taxi youll have to hump your way out .
bet youre glad you got the bren , robbie , said harry cackling as they left the office .
dick mason sat at his desk and pulled the photo out of the manila envelope , the one he had deliberately not shown the team .
it was the one shot wilkinson had managed when he made his last and very low pass over the site .
it showed a close up of the soah in front of the burnt out longhouse .
scattered across the red , brown earth were bodies , like discarded dolls , bloated already by the searing daytime heat .
this could get very ugly , he thought to himself locking the envelope away .
the following morning dawned the same as all the others at this time of the year .
tropic islands develop off shore breezes in the morning adding to the discomfort of the early morning heat .
off to the north squall clouds marched westward across the horizon in the general direction of malaya the sun reflecting like diamonds off the quiet sea .
hed left his billet early to give him time to swing by gemas apartment , the memory of the last evening spent with her vivid in his mind .
he arrived well before she normally left for work .
she was dressed in her usual long black skirt , white blouse and sandals and invited him into her sparsely furnished flat .
she stood in the middle of the room , eyes searching for his.questioning .
he was sure .
gema , will you marry me ?
she stood still looking up into his face .
ive been expecting you , she said , we are worlds apart you and i , more than you know .
we are both here , at this point in time , neither one of us in the country we know .
you are here because you have to be and eventually you will leave .
i am here because my parents want something better for me and the missionaries convinced them to do what they did .
they are my parents.i have no choice either .
the tears ran down her face .
my heart tells me to say yes .
my head screams at me questioning how it could possibly work for us .
please , dickie , dont be disappointed in me .
you should know how i feel .
you have breathed my spirit and those of my ancestors .
i need time to think..no more than that .
he took her in his arms and they each breathed the spirit of the other .
i understand gem , i have questions too but you have all the time in the world to answer .
i wont mention it again .
however , should you say yes there would be much to discuss and decisions we would have to make that might well affect the rest of our lives .
driving the champion back to hq he was a happy man , at least she hadnt said no .
he wasnt stupid , he knew the challenges for them would be huge not the least of them being the army .
deal with that when we get to it , he thought , theres no other way .
on his way to the office he forced himself to focus on the matters at hand , the needs of c team before their insertion , the communications , and their extraction .
why was the colonel involved in this ?
what was the team going to find out ?
is it going to get ugly or is it just much ado about nothing ?
he spent the rest of the morning going over the duty watch reports of the previous nights radio traffic .
he occasionally made notes in the margins in order to get clarification from jennings when he came on duty .
jakarta was still making noises about the massacre and threatening to take it to the un .
thatll get them a long way , he thought .
just before lunch paddy ohara came into the office .
think we got ta problem boss .
gemas in the outer office insisting she see you straight away..and boss she doesnt look too good .
dickie got that sinking feeling in the pit of his stomach .
shes turned me down and she feels she has to tell me straight away .
youd better show her in paddy and close the door when you leave .
paddy brought her in holding her by the elbow then , turning on his heel , left the office and quietly closed the door behind him .
gema just stood there in the middle of the office , her shoulders heaving as she struggled to control herself .
shed obviously been crying , in her left hand she held a folded newspaper .
dickie got her a chair and helped her sit down .
would you like some water gem ?
he asked gently .
she shook her head , tears running down her cheeks .
she unfolded the newspaper and spread it on the desk so he could see it .
in the middle of the front page a photograph of a burnt out longhouse with bodies strewn on the earth in front of it .
my home , my parents , my brother , she sobbed , what has happened ?
he took her hands in his..she was cold .
its probably just propaganda , im sure your family is okay , he whispered .
she struggled to speak.but you asked me to find a copy of the newspaper.. so i did .
she lifted up her face to look into his.pleading , suddenly her body stiffened and a wail came out of her mouth like a wounded animal .
nooooo , she was looking over his shoulder..sagging in her chair .
oh my god , thought dickie , the bloody photos are still on the wall !
she was numb .
mason had driven her back to her flat offering to stay with her but she preferred to be on her own .
shed recognized the area in the photos .
she had no way of confirming what might have happened .
she hadnt seen her mother in almost eight years .
shed seen her father three years previous on one of his rare trading trips.but that was it .
she knelt in front of her shrine to semangat and searched for their spirits .
she had always relied on her family , knowing that they supported her in her new life .
now that space was empty.or was it ?
the photos were grainy and lacking in detail .
obviously something terrible had happened but exactly what was not readily apparent .
the doubt set in , perhaps part of her denial .
semangat will tell me when he is ready , the spirits will talk to me , she thought to herself .
the doubt dried up her tears but she could not rid herself of the feeling of loss.of emptiness .
she felt alone for the first time in her life .
chapter 3 the yorkshire codes 0330 hours the team gathered in the ready room , all business now .
equipment check , said mudd quietly .
they checked each others equipment , the chutes , already on their backs , altimeters on their wrists .
sixty pound bergens strapped to their chests to be released on ten foot lines once their chutes opened , 9mm brownings holstered wherever they preferred .
mcelroy , all six foot four of him , holding the eighteen pound bren like it was a toothpick , brenner with the extra weight of the radio loading him down .
all four now part of the team , no one any more important than the other , each one both independent and inter dependent at the same time , each quietly going about his job .
each in jungle fatigues , no insignias , no rank , nothing that would identify them .
no personal effects , no labels , supplies for two weeks with little chance of re supply .
personal weapons plus frag grenades and claymore mines .
mudd quietly , we jump at ten thousand feet which is kinda low .
deploy chutes at twenty five hundred , youll only have about forty five seconds of free fall .
we jump together and for gods sake stay together .
our lz is the big padi by the river .
by the time we get there we should just be able to see it .
apparently theres no wind which should make it easier .
they were already sweating profusely weighted down with all the extra gear .
the good news , said mudd , is that wilkinson has volunteered for pilot , at least he should be able to take us to the right place .
he bloody better , muttered downer , weve too much crap to be humping through the bush .
remember , said mudd , this is a covert recce , no fire unless as a last resort .
ok fellas the trucks outside , lets get it on .
the dakota stood out on the runway quiet in the still of the night save for the constant symphony of sounds from the night insects .
they quietly loaded up , uncomfortable with chutes on their backs , bergens on their chests sitting two by two facing each other the sweat running down their camouflaged faces .
wilkinson came back from the cockpit .
not too far chaps , about an hour and a half in the air , watch for the lights , red in the door.jump on the green .
navigator will come back and give you a hand .
he disappeared forward and closed the door behind him .
the silence was shattered as he started up the two pratt and whitney engines .
taking off into the wind he banked the unmarked plane southwards and disappeared into the blackness , the roar slowly fading until all that could be heard were the insects of the night .
the time passed slowly , the throb of the engines lulling mcelroy to sleep .
dont know how the hell he does that , thought downer , could be getting our arses blown off in an hour or so .
too soon the navigator clambered back from the cockpit .
stand up !
he yelled over the noise of the engines .
clipping on his safety line he opened the wide door to starboard .
the roar of the engines increased and the cool night air rushed in .
lock n load !
shouted mudd over the din .
they did a final check of each others chutes , the red light came on .
stand in the door !
ordered the navigator .
the green light flashed on and the four of them , in unison , jumped into the beginning dawn light .
sensory overload falling through the gloom of the early dawn .
staying together using arms and legs as flight controls .
looking downpretty much on target..the river , now discernible winding away to the south , the light green of the cultivated padi visible in the bend .
one eye on the altimeter .
twenty five hundred feetpull the cord .
the sudden jerk of arrested movement .
release the bergen on its ten foot line .
still together , slight correction on a control line as a gentle breeze tries to push them off course .
pay attention now .
no sign of life .
a gentle landing .
collapse the chute and hit the quick release .
robbie with the bren and mudd with the fln immediately take up defensive positions eyes sweeping the compound in front of them .
peter and harry quickly bury the four parachutes and helmets and then join the other two .
the quiet hangs over the encampment like a pall .
mudd whispers , well sit pat here for twenty or so .
it looks as though we need to be off to the left about half way down , set up in the tree line .
any visitors are liable to come from the river .
harry set up a couple of claymores between us and the river .
when youre back well move out .
the three of them lay in the dry padi as harry disappeared behind them .
peter whispered in georges ear , lips almost touching him , the fact that this padi is dry says no ones been around for a while .
normally this would be soaked as they irrigate every day .
george nodded in agreement .
harry was back in a few minutes , suddenly appearing at their sides .
all done..thatll make their day if they show up , he whispered .
ok gentlemen , said mudd , i suggest we move off to the left .
we stay in the tree line and move down about a hundred and fifty yards .
well find an op just in the tree line , thatll give us a good view of the entire compound and down to the river , questions or suggestions ?
everyone nodded in agreement .
ok , lets move out , whispered george .
careful to leave no sign of their passing they slowly moved off into the gloom of the trees , working their way down until they were opposite the ruins of the longhouse about a hundred yards distant .
harry , on point , soon found a thicket that afforded a good view and excellent concealment .
ok gents , said george quietly , robbie , set up the bren as best you can so as you can sweep the entire compound .
harry..take four claymores and set them up on our six , two as booby traps and two on the switch .
stagger them so we have plenty of notice , peter , do your radio check .
harry disappeared out of the thicket .
peter unslung the radio and finding the correct pre programmed frequency whispered into the mike , roundhay park.roundhay park two clicks in his ear told him he was being received .
without another word he turned off the unit to conserve his batteries .
within half an hour all four were back in the thicket all sign of their entrance swept clear .
standard procedure ?
questioned robbie in his broad glasgow accent , two on watch..two getting some kip..two on two off ?
the three nodded their agreement .
robbie , you and i take the first watch..you gents get some kip , whispered george , and harry..no fucking snoring !
mudd.stretched out on his poncho..gazed out into the compound periodically scanning the area with his binoculars particularly in the direction of the river .
if they come at all theyll come from the river , he thought .
in front of him , at the foot of the ladder , a bloated body crumpled on the red earth .
off to his right about fifty yards away a headless body spread eagled on its back , hed obviously taken a full burst in the chest .
to his left , well into the trees , a snuffling noise .
probably a wild boar having a go at one of the bodies , thought george , its a wonder theres not more of them about .
what the hell is that cooking smell ?
whispered robbie .
the winds shifted , said george , its burnt bodies in the longhouse .
most of them probably got caught in there .
he took the glasses and focused on the ruins .
across the soah the notched log still stood leading up to the veranda..the ruai .
beyond that the building had collapsed into itself.a pile of blackened rubble.the ironwood stilts left standing thirty feet into the air , memorials in a graveyard , witnesses to a killing field .
not a sound save for the snuffling of the feeding boar in the underbrush and the normal jungle sounds in the canopy above .
the following morning over their cold meal mudd suggested they stay in the op at least another day .
im still not confident were on our own here , he whispered to the group gathered close .
im going to take up a position down on the river , should be able to see at least half a mile downstream , you guys keep up the routine .
if alls quiet well do our recce in the morning , ok with you ?
not really okay with me , said robbie , i agree with the idea of scoping out the river but i think there should be two of us .
two tucked in here for a while should be fine , our six is protected by the claymores .
the other two nodded their heads .
good , said mudd , well be back in four to six hours .
robbie , leave the bren here bring the m16 .
the sweat ran off his forehead , through his eyes and , dripping off the end of his nose , bounced off the action of the fln he was cradling .
he stood motionless , just inside the tree line , the brown river oily in front of him flowing to the south and over a hundred yards wide here .
he could see perhaps half a mile down the river before it disappeared round a bend to the left .
it would be impossible for anyone to come up the river without him making them and in plenty of time for him to melt back into the brush , pick up robbie and get back to the fire position .
he remained still , unmoving , virtually invisible in his full camo and headnet .
he could feel the flies on his face and he was sure at least one leach had clamped on high on his inner leg close to his crotch .
still , save for his eyes constantly looking for movement , and his ears listening for something that didnt belong , he was invisible .
hed been there almost two hours now , the cramps had come and gone , his shirt totally soaked from the sweat running down his chest .
still he didnt move..well aware that any movement made him visible.just as theirs made them visible .
he couldnt see robbie but he knew where he was , a slightly more comfortable spot except for the ants that were probably driving him crazy .
hed placed him between the roots of a meranti tree soaring better than two hundred feet into the sky , a little further back but he could see further upstream and had his six .
theyd had each others back now for three years both here in borneo and in malaya .
they knew each other well perhaps too well considering their occupation .
he knew however that , if anyone slipped through , the macaques in the canopy would let him know..robbie knew that too .
his thoughts came back to the river in front .
nothing in sight.in fact other than the odd hornbill , that bird endemic to borneo and a croc in the river he hadnt seen or heard a darned thing .
just as well , he thought , who needs it ?
maybe we can get out of here without any sort of a flap , talk about isolation .
he looked up , shit you dont even see a plane .
course where the hell would it be going ?
his thoughts came back to the team .
all four had become close over the last few years .
although the teams rotated every three months , which provided each trooper with experience in all the disciplines , they somehow managed to come back together .
this was their fifth covert insertion ... ... .hopefully their shortest and easiest .
their worst had been the three months spent alone in the highlands , being re supplied by air , and constantly having to dodge irregular troops .
by the time theyd got back to kuching hed lost nearly thirty pounds and hed been pretty lean to start off with .
ok , thats enough of this , he thought , time to get out of here .
he stepped back into the shadows , almost stumbling as life came back into his left foot .
for the first time in two hours he took a drink of the tepid water in his water bottle and beat the flies off his face .
he policed the area to erase any sign of his presence whilst making as little movement as possible then backed out on his way to pick up robbie .
shit george !
i had you from yards away , whispered robbie as he got to his position , youre stumbling around like a pregnant camel , must be getting old !
yea sure , said george , lets get the hell out of here , doesnt look as though theres anything happening .
as they silently made their way back to the op , being careful to avoid the booby traps laid by harry , george was once again amazed by the very nature around him .
trees soaring over two hundred feet in the air preventing hardly any light penetrating the jungle floor animals living in the canopy that would probably never come down to the ground in their lifetime .
natives that happily lived here , totally isolated from the rest of the world , the jungle and the river providing all their needs .
the following morning , after another cold meal and tepid water , they lay side by side in the op scanning the compound , the tree line and as far back to the river as they could see .
gents..weve no choice but to take a chance now .
weve been here over forty hours and it looks as though nothings going on .
harry take a couple of the claymores you setthe two on the switch .
set em further down the river where robbie and i were..youll see a game trail..set them well to each side of the trail..booby traps !
if they come theyll use the river and they wont use the trails .
with the other ones set well have plenty of warning if they show up .
robbie i want you to stay in here with the bren , youve got a good field of fire .
peteryou and i are going to recce the whole area from here to the river , see anything unusual sing out .
im going to photograph everything we think necessary .
george and peter left the security of the thicket leaving robbie stretched out behind the bren .
harry had already disappeared into the underbrush .
ever vigilant , safety catches off , they walked towards the ruins of the longhouse .
the first body they came to had obviously been decapitated but there was no sign of the head .
what was left of the body was covered in blue tattoos .
it looked as though it had been a middle aged man , well muscled yet not overly tall .
hed taken a full burst in the chest and was , by now , well bloated .
george took a number of shots , from different angles and a close up of the tattoos .
they moved on to the body at the foot of the steps .
the smell now from the longhouse was overpowering so they pulled their bandanas up over their mouths and noses .
this second body was a much older man , deeply wrinkled with grey hair .
hed taken one round in the chest which had left a massive exit wound in his back .
the flies were still thick in the pool of dried blood in the dirt .
it was impossible to get into the longhouse .
it had collapsed into itself creating a pile of blackened timbers and ash .
the ironwood and camphorwood supports had not burned and stood like monuments to the dead .
george took a number of photographs from different angles .
from the smell it was reasonable to assume that most of the villagers had been trapped inside .
they worked their way across the soah taking photos of the boot prints left in the dust .
at least were in the dry season , said peter , not that it helped them too much .
they took the path down to the rivers edge .
you could still see the marks where the boats had been dragged up onto the mud embankment more photos .
lets work our way back through the padi , suggested george .
working their way through the rice , now turning brown in the heat , george notice the glint of something in the dust..then again..then againbrass .
ejected shells .
they hadnt seen them when theyd arrived but then their senses had been attuned to something else .
george first took photos of the brass laying on the ground whilst peter cast around looking for more .
shit george its all over the place , he said .
when ive finished photographing pick a bunch up and well take them back with us , muttered george .
when hed finished they picked up as much of the spent brass as made sense and headed back to the op in the thicket .
harry had already returned .
robbie said , you know , if were convinced its still quiet , we could take the time and bury those two blokes over there .
if we dont the boars are just going to make a meal of them .
im with you on that , said peter , the ground is pretty soft .
they buried the two bodies in a shallow communal grave , gathering rocks to create a small marker and committed them to their maker .
george took a couple of photos of the grave and finally put the camera away .
ok harrytime to call up the taxi service .
harry fired up the radio , triggered the send button and whispered , leeds unitedleeds united .
two clicks told him the message had been received .
all they had to do now was wait !
three hours later , quietly waiting just inside the tree line down by the padi , the silence was shattered by a clattering roar as the whirlwind settled in the dust .
holy shit !
said robbie , if they didnt know we were here before they sure as hell know now , time to go !
half way home , peter dug into his pocket and took out one of the shell casings .
he looked at it closely then looked at it again .
he leant close to georges ear and yelled , youd better take a look at this , it looks like mucho trouble to me .
george took the shell casing and looked at it carefully .
his heart gave a lurch and that funny feeling settled in his stomach .
the casing was 5.56mm .
armalite , m16 .
the only troops using this in borneo were the 22 sas .
chapter 4 herefordshire , england 1984 hi darlingim home , called dick mason as he came through the front door .
the house responded with silence , that sort of hollow sound that tells you nobodys in .
he kicked his brogues off , onto the hallway tray , and hung his damp raincoat up in the closet .
it was exactly four years , almost to the day , since hed retired from the army .
he stood in the hallway for a moment .
beats the hell out of married quarters thats for sure , he said out loud .
the house didnt answer .
i wonder whats for dinner ?
he thought , wandering into the spotless kitchen .
where the hells gema ?
shes usually home by now .
the kitchen gave off onto a pleasant family room , french doors opening out onto the terrace overlooking half an acre of carefully tended garden .
they were lucky really .
they had no neighbors behind them just some woods bordering a neighboring farm .
the house itself was larger than what they needed , just him , his wife gema and daughter wendy .
wendy would be leaving soon , heading off to cambridge on a scholarship .
bloody house will be far too big then , he thought , well have to talk about that , the markets pretty strong .
there was no way he could possibly have afforded such a place as this on his captains salary or his pension , even though hed socked away a substantial sum whilst overseas , what with all the various allowances .
more bedrooms than they needed , even when they had guests , a study for himself overlooking the garden and the old barn that doubled as a garage .
theyd converted the upstairs of the barn into a large flat for some inexplicable reason , as if they already didnt have enough room , it was the original hayloft and was huge .
it was really only after gema got that terrific job were they able to handle the mortgage and wendys school fees .
he poured himself a sherry and took it into the study .
might as well have a small one before she comes home , he thought .
it had stopped raining and the sun was trying to break through the clouds even though it was late in the day .
typical hereford weather , he muttered to himself , never know whats its going to do until it actually does it .
he sat in his easy chair in front of the cold fireplace , newspaper in his lap , gazing at the mass of old photos on the wall .
they were mostly army friends from when he was stationed in malaya and sarawak .
of course that was before he got detached and sent back to bradbury lines to take on some of the training of wannabe sas troopers .
the others were on the golf course and at various functions with gema .
his favorite was on the mantelpiece , a portrait of gema and wendy taken quite recently .
wendys a stunner , he thought to himself , shell be fighting the blokes off at cambridge .
she was tall , unlike her mother , easily as tall as he was .
shed inherited from him a straight nose and his piercing blue eyes plus the height of course , auburn hair which she liked long although sometimes she put it up , almond shaped eyes and skin the color of milky coffee .
smart girl too , hed found that out pretty quickly .
she had an ear for languages and was already multi lingual..got it from her mother for sure he sat there , nursing his drink , looking at the photos .
i guess im lucky in some ways , he thought to himself , some of the chaps i knew quite well have retired relatively close by .
george mudd has an extremely successful business here in hereford although hes out of the country quite often .
ron gurney actually lives here in herefordgeorge lives down in eaton bishop somewhere .
weve never been to his place .
were all close enough to the barracks to be able to socialize with some of the chaps still there .
ron and i always seem to be welcome in the officers mess although i dont think george ever goes down to the sergeants mess .
funny when you think about it..george has done better than any of us since we all retired .
well good on him i say , bloody good golfer too .
by some stroke of coincidence they were all members of belmont lodge golf course probably due to the fact that the club did offer a really good deal to retired members of the sas being literally just around the corner .
he thought about his own life since hed retired .
with gemas job he could easily have become a gentleman of leisure .
hed actually tried it for a while but got bored to death.after all how many rounds of golf can you play ?
so hed looked for work .
the best he could find was with an estate agency and property management company in hereford .
he hated it but it was something to do and he had ample opportunity to play golf when it took his fancy .
gemas job he resented the pleasure she got out of it .
the travelling she was able to do.the money she made .
damn it if it wasnt for him shed still be in sarawak working as a government interpreter .
he remembered ruefully the shit storm hed had when hed announced to his co his intention to marry gema .
the army had threatened him with everything under the sun other than being cashiered .
he , in turn , had threatened to resign his commission if that was what it was going to take .
theyd weathered the storm although gema had had her problems once they returned to the barracks at bradbury lines .
even now they didnt get invited too often to functions that required a partner in tow .
screw em , he thought .
he thought of gema now forty three and not looking a day over thirty , gema who , when home , goes to the dojo to practice silat the indonesian martial art .
she had become guru muda the equivalent of a black belt .
he had seen her in action , she was formidable .
gema who , although she had converted to christianity when she was fifteen , still had a shrine to the god semangat and still believed in the spirit and the spirits of her ancestors , gema who strongly believed in her heritage .
gema who he had to teach to kiss as kissing was not part of her culture .
gema who had named their daughter after her mother wening , her mother who was killed in sixty five .
the slamming of the front door brought him back to the present .
hellooo im home , she called , where are you ?
im in the study , he replied .
she walked in , dressed in the black track suit she used for working out .
her hair was in a pony tail tied up with an elastic .
did you grab the mail when you came in ?
she asked , im expecting something from the travel agents .
still intent on doing it are you ?
he said .
i thought wed already agreed , she said , im going to start dinner .
the disagreement had started after wendy had been accepted by cambridge .
gema had decided that , before leaving for university and during her gap year , she would take her back to sarawak and kalimantan the place of her birth .
dick just couldnt see the point of travelling half way round the world to , as gema put it , meet her heritage .
gema was adamant though and , off and on , theyd been chewing over it for over a month..every now and again it would flare up into an argument .
of course it reached far further than that .
after her family had been killed gema had never been quite the same .
dick often wondered if gema agreed to marry him in order to get out of sarawak or if she truly loved him .
for twenty years hed harbored the fear that she was just going through the motions when they socialized with old comrades .
she seemed to turn off in a way that was only apparent to him .
of course the old comrades didnt help particularly if theyd been posted in the far east..colonialism at its worst .
dickie..lets not start this all over again , she said , just think of it as a holiday .
well only be gone for a few weeks , itll be a wonderful experience for her .
youll be okay for a month , think of all the golf youll get in .
wendys really excited about it .
what she hadnt expressed was her own excitement over the trip .
for the last twenty years shed successfully hidden her true emotions concerning her origins .
now she had the opportunity to return .
from time to time she thought perhaps she was using wendy but shed get plenty out of it too .
her planned itinerary took them from london to kuala lumpur and then on to kuching in sarawak .
from there they would make their way to kapit .
once there shed figure it out , after all she was kayan , daughter of a tuai .
chapter 5 going home .
she had forgotten how hot and humid it could be , she almost found it refreshing .
they had flown from heathrow to kuala lumpur in malaya , stayed over for a couple of days to get over the jet lag then continued on to kuching in sarawak all by malaysia airlines .
in kuching they stayed at the grand continental on jalan ban hock complete with pools , spa and everything else you would expect from a first class hotel .
she had stayed there once before with dickie but only after he had taught her how to kiss .
for her it was like coming home .
of course much had changed in the almost twenty years but the essence was the same the sounds , the smells , the bikes , the scooters , the constant chatter .
no more the military traffic she remembered .
kuching was now a bustling metropolis , a hodgepodge of races cramming the pavements .
indonesians , malayans , chinese the odd east indian .
for wendy it was everything her mother constantly spoke of .
it was not the first time she had travelled of course .
she had been to many places with her mother but never to the far east with a view to entering kalimantan .
although she spoke malay and in fact had a smattering of butak , her mothers native language , she had trouble understanding.more the speed and the accent than anything else .
it was a place of wonder , of excitement , a place of spicy smells and sounds , a place of beggars and pavement vendors..certainly not hereford .
that first evening in kuching , sitting in the long bar overlooking the pool her mother had turned to her , i want you to listen to me now so there is no misunderstanding later wendy , she looked her daughter in the eyes .
this will not be like before , where we are going is different .
dont get used to this , sweetheart , this hotel with the pool and the fancy rooms , this modern city , she turned and looked around the room .
where we are going , in a couple of days , is one of the last truly uncivilized places on earth .
there is no running water , there are no phones , there is no electricity .
there are none of the things that you take for granted in your everyday life , its not even safe .
tomorrow we go shopping for you , jungle khakis , boots , headgear , a couple of changes plus a first aid kit .
youre going to need bug cream , a knife and a parang plus water bottles and backpacks for both of us .
from now on where we are going is our business and no one elses..remember that .
she sat back and took a long pull of her drink .
she thought back to the recent phone conversation she had had with robbie mcelroy , something that dickie definitely did not know about .
she had called him in brunei from england asking him for both advice and help .
at first hed thought she was out of her mind but eventually he had come around .
she had to call him in the morning to confirm everything .
wendyfrom tomorrow on you must do everything i say..without question .
believe me when i say everything changes but nothing changes .
where we are going..nothing changes .
it is at it was .
wendy was starting to look worried .
sweetheart.dont forget.this is what i was !
where we are going is home for me , i will be welcome there .
she knew that up till now it had been easy .
starting , after they had kitted out , things would get progressively tougher , first the eight hours on a bus to sibu , then five hours on a boat to kapit .
in kapit they would meet the guide arranged by robbie , apparently an old friend .
according to robbie they would not know him but he would know them .
they could trust him with their lives .
three days later they were standing on the dock in kapit wondering what to do next surrounded by their gear at their feet .
i am paan , i am trooper macs friend .
a small wizened man had appeared at their side .
i speak little english but good malay .
he was a small wiry man in shorts and tee shirt , parang tucked into a colorful sash around his waist .
he was barefoot his arms and legs fully tattooed .
gema smiled and gave the traditional greeting .
i am gema suparmanputri and this is my daughter wening , she replied in butak .
i am kayan .
i am the daughter of a tuai , i too am macs friend .
they followed him to a four wheel drive obviously provided by robbie .
it looked like a relic from the sixtiesan ex military champion .
everything you asked for is in the truck , said paan , i can not drive .
it is about one day to the border .
the road is not too bad , it is maintained by the logging company .
we can leave now .
it didnt take gema long to figure out the gears and the road , if you could call it such , was well within the abilities of the truck .
after a couple of hours they stopped to stretch their legs .
how do you know this is safe paan ?
she asked .
he replied , gemai have been watching this road now for over a week as instructed by trooper mac .
there are no patrols here now but when we get closer to the border we must hide the truck and go on by foot .
gema nodded her understanding .
almost five hours later paan tapped gema on the shoulder .
we make camp now , hide truck .
they pulled off the road and drove straight into the underbrush until it was out of sight .
paan erased all sign of its passing .
it will be dark soon , said paan , no fire , no smoking , no noise , stay hidden .
i check our six .
gema smiled at the military jargon .
paan had disappeared .
the dark comes quickly in the tropics .
try and get some sleep wendy , said her mother , tomorrow we start the hard part .
sitting there in the quickening dark gema felt as though shed never left .
the jungle night sounds seemed to welcome her home .
she sat , cross legged , deliberately close to wendy who was obviously trying to put on a brave face .
get some sleep wendy , she said , there is nothing to fear here..this is my home .
they woke in the morning before the sun rose .
paan had returned during the night and was busy distributing weight between the three packs .
trooper mac sent something special for you gema , he whispered .
lifting up the back seat of the champion he pulled out two armalite m16s and several filled magazines .
he said you know how to use this , said paan .
gema nodded her agreement with wendy looking on in amazement .
they are set to single shotplease missee do not fire on auto we do not have enough ammo , again gema nodded her agreement .
wendy you need to understand that although the terrorists were beaten years ago they never went away .
theyre still here somewhere .
the odds of us meeting up with them are slim but if we do we need to be able to defend ourselves , wendy nodded her understanding .
we will distribute the weight of the ammo but paan and i will carry the rifles , gema said .
paan was carrying another package back from the truck , quietly laughing to himself and doing a little jig on his bandy legs .
trooper mac sent me a little present too , he said all the while chuckling .
out of oily paper he unpacked six claymore mines , wire and a small transmitter .
this will get their attention , he said in malay , laughing .
after the gear was packed paan squatted down and motioned them over .
i speak in malay now because my english not good , the two women nodded .
trooper mac has given me instructions .
we are to move off the road about a mile west then we are to turn south parallel to the road .
it is about three hours to the border .
there we are to bivouac overnight .
i will recce the border to make sure it is safe to cross .
this will be hard going now .
there are no trails.we are to make no noisethere is no hot food until we are back in kapit .
when you have to gobury everythingleave no sign .
gemado not even think about using that m16 unless i say so , gema nodded .
paan moved as though to get up .
do you know where were going ?
asked gema .
yes , replied paan , i have been there .
aku tahu tempat ini .
what did he say ?
asked wendy .
he said , i know this place , replied gema thoughtfully .
they crossed the border uneventfully although where anyone knew exactly where the border was seemed a good question .
it was all just thick , almost impenetrable , jungle .
the women needed a rest desperately so paan left them , backtracked , picked a spot where they had crossed and sat motionless for four hours ensuring they had no unwanted visitors .
wendy thought she was going to die .
her muscles screamed for respite .
she dreaded looking at her feet as she had more than one blister on each .
her shoulders were bruised from the pack on her back .
her face was badly scratched from the constant struggle through the underbrush .
at first she was awed by the stature of everything , the trees soaring hundreds of feet into the sky blotting out the sun giving the impression of constant dusk .
the ferns that looked so soft but cut like a knife , the constant chatter of macaque monkeys in the canopy but soon the very effort of moving forward , the energy sucking heat and the constant dripping of the equatorial jungle took its toll .
she was only allowed to take a drink every now and again and even then just two swallows of the water which tasted metallic from the treatment .
she watched her mother move , seemingly effortlessly , through the bush following paan who periodically swung his parang making the way easier .
three days paan had said after they crossed .
she wasnt even sure she could make it .
what was there for her once they arrived ?
paan seemed to know exactly where he was going .
no compass just his native instinct , his bare feet seemingly impervious to what was underfoot.pack on his backrifle strapped to his chest..the jungle fighters way .
god almighty , thought wendy , he isnt even breathing heavily..neither is my mum now i come to think about it and theyre both twenty five years older than mei dont get it .
on the third day after crossing paan held up his hand .
wait here ill be back .
it was several hours before he returned as usual just materializing like magic seemingly out of thin air .
we are there , it is no more than an hour .
gemas heart jumped in her chest .
wendy was just happy that the end was in sight .
i recced the whole areawe will be alone.safe !
it will be dark soon .
we make camp here , move out in the morning , whispered paan..a habit .
that evening gema spoke with paan .
they spoke of their lives previous to the fighting , their villages , their families .
paan was penan , a warrior as had been his father and his father before him but , although he and gema were from different tribes , they shared the same traditions , shared the same sense of family honor and pride .
he had been a border scout for three years trained by the ghurkas in modern jungle warfare and had met robbie mcelroy when he had guided him across the border .
they had become friends and soon after , robbie had succeeded in getting him seconded to his group as permanent guide .
they were a strange couple together robbie standing a foot and a half taller than paan , robbie in full jungle gear , paan in shorts .
mac came to find me when he came back to brunei , he gave me job .
now i have small house , wife and food to eat , i have his six , he said .
again gema smiled , she was fond of this little man .
he was genuine but he made her sad , he reminded her of what was .
paan squatted looking at his feet .
when you come back hereand you will , you come find me .
mac will know where i am , i will guide you .
they entered the old village site early in the morning .
they came in from the north the river on the leftstill flowing..still dark brown and oily .
the old , rickety docks had long disappeared .
the very shape of the banks had changed due to the flooding in the annual wet .
the jungle had done its job .
the entire site was completely overgrown in secondary growth .
many meranti trees , those giants of the jungle , had seeded but had not yet grown tall enough to block out the sun , lianas grew everywhere .
you could see where the old padi fields had stood down by the river , overgrown now but you could tell the outline .
wendy could see her mother fighting her emotions .
gema could see , in her minds eye , the padi fields as they were , hear the happy shouts of the children playing on the soah and the calls of the women working in the rice fields .
they pushed through the brush in the general direction of where the longhouse had stood .
suddenly they could see the ironwood posts still standing so many years later , totally covered in vines that would flower profusely once it rained .
paan , with his parang , cleared some of the brush exposing solid piles of black embers .
gemas eyes misted over .
wendy put her arm round her mothers shoulders .
i was born here , whispered gema , long alat ..i spent the first fifteen years of my life here.on this very spot .
i didnt see a visitor , a stranger , until i was fifteen years olda missionary .
taking a sighting from one of the end posts gema turned east and began to push her way through the underbrush .
wendy and paan followed her .
she was obviously looking for something although what it could be , after so many years , wendy had no idea .
what are we looking for mum ?
she asked .
her mother stopped and turned .
we are standing in the middle of what used to be the soah .
it was a large clearing in front of the house that was used for festivals and quite often where the children played .
my brother and i played here all the time..hard to imagine now , she said wistfully .
im looking for a grave .
uncle robbie told me some bodies had been buried here and stones placed like a cairn .
all three started looking in earnest using their parangs to cut away the brush that now covered everything .
it was paan that found it .
the cairn had collapsed over the years and was now just a pile of rubble .
paan took his parang and cleared the area around it .
gema sank to her knees , tears flowing unashamedly down her face .
this is what we came so far for..this might be my parents .
she could still not be surethere was no proofthe doubt still lingered .
paan rummaged around in his pack and , taking out a small parcel , knelt in front of gema holding it out in his two hands..head bowed down the traditional way of the barat .
in malay he said gently , i guessed why we were coming here so i brought you this small gift .
he passed her the package wrapped in traditional leaves , unwrapping it she found a small blanket .
it is pua kumbu , said paan , the traditional iban ceremonial blanket often used in funerals , my gift to you .
he stood up smoothly and moved away from the stones leaving gema and wendy together .
gema spread the blanket on the ground and kneeling on it said to wendy , come kneel with me .
in butak , her native language , she said the traditional prayers to the dead and to the god semangat .
she invited the spirit of the dead to join with hers as was customary among the kayan .
she stayed there for almost an hour her mind casting back to another life , another time , marveling at what time had done .
she just knelt there still and quietremembering the good things .
the spirits were quiet as they had been before .
eventually she stood up , stretched and walked over to paan .
what happened here ?
she whispered .
ada yang tahu .
nobody knows , said paan .
they spent the next day clearing the area around the gravesite down to the bare earth and rebuilding the cairn of stones in the full knowledge that the jungle would quickly claim what it had claimed once before .
wendy was dreading the four day trek back to the truck .
shed only just made it here .
her mother had treated her blisters from the first aid kit but theyd only just started to heal .
paan would not let them dump the ammo or the claymores so they had to be humped out .
she just shook her head and hoped she would not let her mother down .
too quickly it was time to leave .
paan , with a grin on his face said , trooper mac has another surprise for you , pulling a small radio out of his backpack he triggered the mike and said , not in a whisper this time , leeds unitedleeds united .
chapter 6 rsm george edward sticky mudd mm rtd .
1985 george stood just off the fairway on the fourteenth .
his drive had leaked a bit to the right and he was mulling over which iron to use on his approach shot .
six ironll probably do it , he thought reaching into his bag .
he remembered what peter brenner had told him the last time hed visited from yorkshire .
just let the club do the work and slow down , had been his advice , he should know .
since peter had retired hed become senior assistant at moor allerton golf club in north leeds .
george lined up and swung slowly .
a little thick but on the green .
leaving about twenty feet for a birdy .
harry was already walking up to the green , bag over his shoulder .
as george walked up , skirting a couple of bunkers , he looked around .
he really liked this golf course although he had played many others .
other than his business , golf was his second love .
whenever he travelled , which was often , his clubs went with him .
he had other interest too , he still loved to shoot competitively and belonged to a gun club down in bristol where he shot both shotgun and handgun .
what was most unusual in england was that he had a license to carry a function of the security services he provided .
when in the service hed been obliged to use the browning high power but now his sidearm of choice was the sig sauer p225 lighter and more reliable but the same caliber.9mm , most of the time it was locked up in the safe at home .
this golf course was his home course .
hed played here for years in fact since 1960 when hed first joined the sas.other than when he was deployed of course .
not that hed had too much opportunity when hed first arrived the training being probably the toughest of any military unit in the world .
he looked off to his left through the trees and across the fifteenth fairway .
the brecon beacons loomed brown and green in the distance .
thats where we all originally connected , he thought , harry downer , peter brenner and , of course , his closest friend robbie mcelroy .
its a wonder were all still alive and kicking , he thought .
now i think about it i even met dick mason here but that was a little later .
he was thankful that , in the main , they had been able to keep together through their careers though now retired and in civilian life .
unusual for the army , he thought , not that they were all really close .
dickie and his wife lived in hereford.just around the corner really.george had bought a small estate in eaton bishop just down the road .
harry lived in gloucester not too far away really..little over an hour if the traffic on the a4103 wasnt too bad and peter brenner lived up in leeds .
he came down to hereford pretty regularly to make up a foursome and chew the fat .
he usually stayed with either george or dickie .
unfortunately they didnt see much of robbie at all.at least the other guys didnt .
george saw him several times a year on business .
hey george.tee off , theres people coming up behind us , youre in some sort of lala land , harry almost whispered .
george knew this was a jungle habit hard to get rid of and not uncommon with men who had served in malaya and borneo .
what you whispering about trooper ?
he said affectionately , pulling his driver out of the bag , were on the bloody golf course !
the two friends played the next four holes in good time george just dropping the one shot on the eighteenth..enough for harry to have to buy the drinks in the clubhouse .
sitting in the bar overlooking the first tee and the eighteenth green harry said .
so hows the business george ?
unusual for you to be home this time of year , usually youre off gallivanting in some far off place .
george mulled this over for a minute .
you know youre right harry .
its nice to be able to back off a bit at last but having robbie in brunei had made a huge difference .
i got ta admit , said harry , for a regimental sergeant major youve developed one hell of a business in not too much time at all .
you know harry we always used to say there are times when its better to be lucky than good .
it applied in the bush , it certainly applies on the golf course and i guess it applies in business too , said george thoughtfully .
after sixty six and the cessation of hostilities in borneo george had rotated back to bradbury lines and got involved in the sas training programs .
hed often thought that dickie had engineered that move although it had never been discussed .
dickiecaptain richard mason rtd ex co of a troop in sarawak , regular golf partner , now involved in the real estate business in hereford .
george had constantly put off retirement as hed never really decided what to do with his life .
hed even spent another year in brunei at the jungle training facility the british army maintained there .
in nineteen seventy three he met judy mclelland and they were married two years later .
on this very golf course , not soon after , hed met terry metcalfe and , on his days off , invariably played with him .
terry had a small security business based in hereford at that time focusing on residential security .
with the cash george had accrued whilst overseas and with judy prodding him to get out of the army george was able to buy into the company..although there never seemed to be too much for him to do .
it was quickly apparent that the business didnt provide sufficient revenue for the two of them and george was able to buy terry out .
the bugger had now completely retired and still played with george on a regular basis .
in nineteen eighty the worst of the worst !
his wife judy was killed in a hit and run while jogging one morning .
the driver never caught .
he let his mind spiral back to that day .
the day the police did not come to him .
the day a friend in the west mercia police called him with the news .
the day he drove over to the pretty , tree lined lane , close to the house they had just bought and not even finished fixing up yet .
he was still living in the same house in hereford .
no we any more .
flashing lights , yellow tape , ambulance , police cars .
judy , in her jogging suit , not yet covered , thrown like a crumpled ragdoll into the ditch .
not much blood but left leg and arm in unnatural positions .
he knelt by her side , no tears .
her face was quiet , no marks , a look of surprise perhaps .
people not knowing what to say .
a police sergeant telling him that she probably didnt even see it comingthat it would have been quick..thinking he was being kind .
police , walking the lane looking for skid marks perhaps..clues .
not remembering driving home but remembering walking through their househis house nowjudy stuff all over .
shopping list on the fridge .
the magazine she had been reading .
her clothes in the laundry hamper , did he know how to run the washing machine ?
the overwhelming sense of emptiness .
the house seemed to echohollow in the missing .
hed seen his fair share of death..more than most he supposed .
that was his job..not to die for his country but to make the other bastard die for his .
that had been his profession and hed been good at it .
hed lost friends during his career and hed mourned them but death was a shadow that hung over them all .
dont dwell on it.its just there..move on , have a drink !
never any regrets .
this was different .
this is , was , his wife .
theyd been trying for a baby .
the things hed wanted to say to her and never did .
he found the emptiness almost unbearable although hed spent most of his life alone .
in fact now he was rarely alone , his friends gathering around .
he didnt feel alone but he did feel loneliness .
he couldnt see where he was going without her..didnt really care .
hed gone on a six month drinking binge and probably only survived due to the intervention of his close friends , particularly robbie mcelroy .
he threw himself into his work sometimes working twenty hours a day .
hed added an armored car service specifically catering to cash deliveries to the burgeoning atm business and had finally landed a contract with an oil company providing security on a couple of north sea oil rigs east of aberdeen .
here he was in his element .
his source of staff were retirees from the sas and the parachute regiment , their knowledge of terrorist tactics , small arms and overall discipline instilling confidence in his clients and a performance second to none .
his business just took off almost in spite of him .
suddenly he was a wealthy man but nothing could replace the loss of judy .
she was there all the time.in spirit .
sometimes he imagined he could hear her voice .
no matter what he undertook she drove him onbut he never wept for her .
he did all the things she would want probably even in the manner she would prefer but , in his heart , he knew she had a hold on him .
he finished the renovation of the eighteenth century house they had bought together in eaton bishop because he knew that that would be what she wanted .
in the quiet moments he missed her desperately but he still never cried for her .
she became a benevolent specter .
it became apparent , after a couple of years of trying to be in several places at the same time , that he needed a right hand man he could trust .
robbie mcelroy came on board as general manager oil rig security .
not so long ago he had been approached by shell oil to provide security for their oil rigs in brunei .
robbie mcelroy , who was single , was promoted to general manager far east and was now living in brunei.like he said , almost like going back home except for the shortage of pubs .
have you heard from peter recently ?
harry interrupted his daydreaming .
nope cant say i have , said george , but i was talking to ron gurney the other day .
hes been making noises about organizing a twenty year reunion of the chaps that were in sarawak , said he was going to talk to dickie about itnot that dickies said anything yet .
sounds like a hell of an idea although im not sure how many of them will show up , from what i understand theyre spread all over the world .
shit some of them are working for you in brunei , said harry .
george thought about this for a moment .
hed have to come up with some sort of rotation or he ran the risk of having no one on the ground in brunei for a couple of weeks .
what will you do harry ?
youve got a bit of a one man show over there in gloucester .
harry had opened a martial arts club in gloucester , a few years previously , teaching self defense to primarily ladies with nothing better to do with their timebut the money was good .
shouldnt be too much of an issue , depends on the timing really .
if people are likely to come in from all over the place it should last more than a couple of days .
mebbe get in a bit of golfmebbe a visit back to bradbury lines , said harry thoughtfully , see what happens !
chapter 7 a gentlemens club in kensington .
tony sat in the mens club in kensington eying his well manicured nails while putting a match to the cigar the waiter had just brought him .
he drew on the cigar until it was burning evenly and looked around him .
a typical london gentlemens club albeit located in kensington rather than the west end or the city .
course he shouldnt complain .
it was one of the few clubs that accepted asians he thought cynically.not a sign of racismnot bloody much .
of course you can buy yourself into anything today and he certainly could afford it .
he sat in the corner in a comfortable brown leather easy chair , todays newspapers on a side table to his left and his lunchtime sherry to his right .
he always sat with his back to the wall .
he liked to be able to see the comings and goings , good habit , no nasty surprises that way .
he was a middle aged , rather urbane looking gentleman , going grey at the temples , obviously in good shape for his age , testament to his regular visits to the gym .
his suit looked as though it came from savile row although he had bought it and several others in hong kong for a tenth of the price .
his shoes were well shined.usually by the shoe boy in the clubs lobby .
his tie , he always wore a tie when in kensington , had a vaguely military look to it although hed just grabbed it one day in harrods .
he drew contentedly on his cigar .
if only my old friends could see me now , he thought .
the nice thing about this club was that it was within walking distance of his store on the kensington high street .
he specialized in importing and distributing teak furniture throughout the uk and had one top of the line retail store of his own .
for the distribution side he had quite an extensive warehouse down in brixton not far from the old jail and just up the street from the ymca .
hed recently expanded his business onto the continent and now had a regular truck running from london to amsterdam .
nobody really knew where the money came from originally and nobody seemed to care .
the business was successful although , as he was quick to say , it was a function of the effort hed put in rather than luck .
he certainly wasnt afraid of hard work .
he paid his taxes and contributed to charities of his choice.hed even run a half marathon.run for heart .
a chelsea fan , he owned season tickets , and tried never to miss a home game .
hed recently bought himself a townhouse in the very upscale st. johns wood area , living on his own and having a housekeeper come in three days a week to do all that domestic stuff .
hed thought of getting someone a lot younger , much prettier and perhaps killing two birds with one stone .
he smiled at the thought .
hed also indulged himself recently and spent a stunning amount of money to join a golf club down in richmond .
it amused him no end as that club had always prided itself on being one of the last bastions of white anglo saxon protestantism..an asian.what in the world is happening to our society ?
he smiled to himself and turned to the sports page .
life is good .
the smartly dressed gentleman , sitting at the bar enjoying half of bitter , looked at tony over the top of his glass , nodded to the barman , finished his drink and walked out of the club getting into the passenger side of the car idling at the curb .
the car pulled out into the traffic and headed off in the general direction of the west end .
tony wei got up , retrieved his burberry very british from the cloakroom and , after tipping the doorman , headed off in the direction of his store .
better get a move on , he thought , have to be down in hackney in a couple of hours and i need to head home and change first , cant go down there looking like this !
leaving his car in the mews garage he took the tube to liverpool st. station and walked to one of his favorite vietnamese restaurants , the viet hoa , owned by a friend of his .
he was hardly recognizable , the suit replaced by baggy jeans , tee shirt and faded leather jacket , on his feet a well scuffed pair of trainers that had started out life white .
on his head the blue of a chelsea fc cap , over his shoulder a gym bag that had seen better days .
he walked through the door to the restaurant .
it was half full with the lunchtime crowd .
waving to acquaintances he sat down and ordered a bowl of soft noodles but instead of waiting he quickly walked through the kitchen area , nodded to the owner and let himself out through the back door to the alley behind .
the young colored guy , in the grey hoody , settled in a doorway on the opposite side of the street and waited for tony to have his lunch .
chapter 8 hereford .
bill , bills and more bills , said gema sitting at the kitchen table , the stack of unopened mail lying between them .
anything there from wendy ?
asked dick .
kids dont write anymore , said gema , they use e mail .
i spoke to her yesterday , shes settling in fine , at least she hasnt asked for more money yet .
that doesnt look like a bill.whats that ?
said dick .
gema passed the rather stiff square envelope across the table .
its the invitation to the regimental reunion ron gurney has been talking about , i wondered when we would be getting it , looks like quite the affair .
wives included ?
asked gema .
its a three day event , said dick , a golf tournament , a dinner come social and a visit to bradbury lines .
wives or partners are invited to the dinner bit but not the tournament or to the barracks which is hardly surprising i suppose .
you can say that again , retorted gema , knowing the regiments efforts at secrecy.as though nobody knows , she said derisively .
when is it ?
bout a month from now , not much notice for the chaps that have to come a long way .
is that from the golf club ?
he said nodding at another envelope lying on the table .
looks like it , said gema , passing it over , anything important or another bloody assessment .
how much money do they want this time ?
actually its the inter club tournament schedule , said dick .
next one is shortly , richmond club , theyre coming here .
at least we dont have to go down there , snobby bunch .
you playing ?
asked gema .
for sure , said dick , me , george , harry and faulkner .
so where are they ?
asked george .
they were standing in the pro shop .
seen the price of these new sweaters ?
bloody daylight robbery !
you should care , said harry , out of my league though .
so whos playing who ?
asked george .
its thee and me against two of their blokes , dickie and faulkner against the other two , said harry , just straight forward stroke play as usual .
if theres a tie therell be sudden death like last time , gorgeous day for it .
sorry to keep you chaps waiting .
ron gurney walked in .
heres your competition i was just giving them the two quid tour .
this is tony wei , hope i pronounced that right , and ron maunder .
chaps meet george mudd and harry downer .
the four shook hands .
george had met maunder before at a previous tournament but tony wei was a new acquaintance .
he couldnt help noticing that , when he shook hands , the asians grip was steely and his hand calloused in a way george had encountered before .
delighted to meet you , said george , if you chaps are ready we might as well get on the tee and get going .
so where are you from tony ?
asked george making conversation as they walked to the first tee .
st johns wood actually , said tony laughing , his voice very cultured .
were you born there or come from somewhere else ?
asked george , curious .
actually im from viet nam originally but ive been here so long i feel as though i was born here .
tony was wearing tan slacks , an argyle sweater and two tone footjoy shoes , dressed for the day .
where you from george ?
he asked .
born and bred around here tony , definitely a local boy .
harry here lives in gloucester .
visitors have the honor tony .
all four teed off , all four finding the fairway .
thats a good start , said harry , usually george is off to the right .
i think he likes it over there .
the game progressed well , accompanied by the usual banter shared by people who play a lot of golf .
at the turn tony was up by a couple of shots on the rest of them .
i got ta pee before we go to the tenth , said george .
ill come with you , said harry , dont like using the bushes with guests in tow .
see you guys on the tee.just a couple of minutes .
george and harry stood side by side at the urinal .
that oriental bastard cheats , said george .
i know , said harry , not worth making a thing about it though .
its pretty obvious , im sure maunders noticed it too .
just keep me in check , said george , im likely to flatten the fucker .
ill tell you something else harry.if hes from viet nam ill blow you in the bar !
the house was empty , wendy away at cambridge , dick on the golf course with his army buddies .
she knelt on her pua kumbu , the gift from paan , in front of her shrine to semangat .
she placed , on a mat in front of the shrine , items she had brought back from her trip to the mahakam acquired for her by paan , the skull of a baby orang utang , sacred to the kayan , an amulet made from human hair , a small , smooth stone from the grave in the soah .
she stood up smoothly and , first stripping to the waist as was required , began the basic yet difficult motions of the basic silat .
she moved around the room , taking aggressive stances , stretching and tensing all the muscles in her body , gliding until the sweat ran down between her breasts .
finally , taking the sacred ketebung , a ceremonial drum , she quietly beat on it with a drumstick carved from one of the ironwood posts still standing in the place where she was born .
she asked for guidance .
she asked for a signbut nothing was forthcoming .
she looked for the spirits of her forebears but she couldnt see them .
semangat will guide me when he is ready , she thought , he will guide me as he guided my ancestors but in his own time .
she knew that within her was a simmering anger but didnt know why .
it was vague , without direction .
sometimes shed wake up in the morning angry and not know why .
she could never talk to dickie about it .
he just didnt get it , far too cerebral for him .
hed just brush it off and tell her not to worry about it .
in the shower she thought about him .
their relationship , their r as she liked to refer to it , had been normal at first in spite of being virtually ostracized by the army wives although the feelings they both had on that night in the beach were never really replicated .
the coming of wendy was a bright light in an otherwise rather dull life .
at every opportunity she drove herself hard at the gym and the dojo .
she learned how to control her body with her mind , to withstand pain , to ignore that wall that stopped most people and simply crash through it.a second wind.a third..a fourth .
dickies retirement changed everything .
not that things were great before .
hed tried being a gentleman of leisure , the atypical retired military officer .
he was bored to tears .
finally he got a job.other than the army the first job hed ever had.selling houses for an estate agent in hereford .
he never really liked it but it got him out of the house .
the real crunch came when gema got the job .
her multi lingual skills landed her a position with an international translation company .
she loved it..she blossomed .
the money was great and she got to travel .
dickie slowly became more and more resentful of her success..more withdrawn .
he spent more and more time with his cronies on the golf course .
if he didnt actually play he would spend the time in the bar .
sure they went through the motions , lots of people did she knew .
he hadnt touched her in months but she didnt really mind that .
what she did mind was that she couldnt talk to him other than the normal pleasantries and the necessities of living under the same roof .
she still felt alien in an alien land .
after the trip , with wendy , to sarawak shed seriously thought of leaving him and returning to kuching but how could she do that with wendy going to cambridge ?
she tried to talk to dickie about moving away from hereford , away from the army .
he adamantly refused , got angry with her , saw it as a personal attack .
she , in turn , became resentful of anything and everything military .
things military had had a direct impact on her life ever since she was fifteen most of it not good .
she remembered her father telling her before she left to live with the missionaries gema everything changes and nothing changes .
wherever you are the issues and challenges remain the samejust a different jungle .
he was a wise man .
part 2 chapter 9 the northern business .
tony left the golf club feeling well satisfied with himself .
hed won his match which was all he was concerned about .
its all about winning , he thought to himself , i never lose !
after loading his clubs into the boot of the car he turned out onto the a4103 but instead of heading south towards london and home he picked up the m5 and headed north letting the bimmer have its head .
the miles clicked off steadily..bypass birmingham..m6 towards manchester .
just south of rochester he pulled into a truck stop .
taking the old gym bag off the back seat he went into the washroom and locked the door .
he came out wearing the baggy jeans and leather jacket hed worn down in hackney .
continuing north he found the m62 east in the direction of leeds .
before he hit the outskirts of leeds he turned in the direction of the leeds bradford airport , parked the bmw in the long stay car park and took the courtesy shuttle to departures .
he walked through departures and took the escalator down to arrivals .
in arrivals he walked over to hertz rent a car and rented a nondescript ford fiesta using a credit card and license that , other than the photograph , bore no resemblance to his true identity .
driving out , via the parking lot to retrieve his golf clubs and clothing , he drove out of the airport and into leeds .
the smartly dressed gentleman in the grey audi tucked in four cars behind looked apprehensively at his fuel gauge .
slippery bastard , he said to himself , hope ive got enough fuel to stay with him , thought id lost him on the motorway , that bimmer sure moves right along .
avi sat on the worn , plush bench seat facing the street door .
the whole pub had seen better days , fuck.. the whole area had seen better days .
chapeltown wasnt safe during the day never mind at night , even the cops walked the beat in threes !
chapeltown home to immigrants , legal and otherwise , turf of at least three gangs constantly fighting over the drug trade .
honest , hardworking folk had long been pushed out to the likes of moortown and roundhay .
you could buy anything here..right in this very pub , drugs , guns , girls , boysanything .
all you needed was the cash !
avi sat , quietly waiting , nursing his lemonade .
he wouldnt drink alcohol even for the sake of the movement although hed been taught it was an excellent cover .
he looked around him in disgust , two sikhs in turbans , pints in hand having a heated discussion .
the barman , leaning over the bar talking to a known local pimp .
what a dump , he thought , hope i dont have to wait much longer .
the bar started to fill up , not good this .
he was starting to feel conspicuous , sitting on his own , in a pub getting more raucous by the minute .
his tradecraft screamed at him to get out now .
suddenly , standing in front of him , out of nowhere a nondescript oriental bloke in leather jacket and jeans .
avi ?
tony sat down , slightly at an angle to avi , but still able to see the door .
a pro , thought avi .
i dont want to be in this dump too long , said tony , mebbe the fleas have learned to jump , whats up ?
can you handle four more ?
asked avi .
depends on the when of it , said tony , ive a truck going over next week if they can be held that long .
should be ok , avi said , trying not to raise his voice over the increasing noise in the bar , same price ?
expenses are going up but youre a steady so well keep it the same for now , ten thousand each , half now and half on delivery .
ok , answered avi , give me forty quid .
what the hell for ?
for these tickets to the match tomorrow afternoon , he pushed a pair of tickets across the grimy table .
leeds is playing fulham at home ... elland road .
make sure no one grabs the seat next to you .
someone will be along with the ten grand .
tony picked up the tickets and walked out onto the street .
he ambled north about a hundred yards , paid the kid the tenner hed promised him to keep an eye on the rental and drove north up the chapeltown road back into civilization .
the smartly dressed gentleman sitting in the dirty blue vauxhall keyed his mike , heading north , he said and tucked in several cars behind .
going through moortown and just before moortown woods tony pulled into the parking lot of st johns church and quickly changed back into the tan pants and argyle sweater hed worn in hereford .
lacing up sperry topsiders he thought to himself , cant look like a slob in the harewood arms .
twenty minutes later he pulled into the harewood arms , an upscale pub right opposite the gates of harewood house home to the queens cousin .
how appropriate , he thought .
after checking in and after an excellent meal he settled in the lounge bar to while away the rest of the evening .
not bad really , he thought .
soccer match tomorrow , round of golf at moor allerton on sunday then pick up my car and head home on monday .
the smartly dressed gentleman keyed his mike .
hes settled in for the night .
chaps a bloody chameleon .
call and see if they have a vacancy and have one of our chaps stay over .
impossible to keep an eye on him from out here , theres no cover .
chapter 10 the reunion .
what are the ladies wearing tonight ?
gema called downstairs .
your little black dress should do the job , replied dickie .
what are your chaps wearing ?
gema making conversation .
its optional , called dickie .
if theyre still serving itll be number two dress .
the retired guys will probably show up in suits or blazers .
i couldnt get into my old uniform if i tried .
just blazer and slacks for me i think .
im sure ronll be in his mess kit .
gema sat at her dressing table looking at her reflection in the mirror .
shed cut her hair short.it was so much easier to look after .
no wrinkles yet..couple of laugh lines round her eyes .
her skin was still unblemished .
she seemed to shine with good health .
this is a new one , she thought , ive never been to a bash like this , how am i going to feel in a room full of military that have never caused me nothing but trouble for as long as i can remember ?
top of thatits those damn army wives , have to be nice i suppose .
is everyone staying at the lodge , dickie ?
i think so , he replied , peter and harry too i would think .
save them having to drive back for the tournament tomorrow .
you ready yet ?
ill be down in a few minutes , she called .
he walked over to the barn , backed the car out and sat waiting for her , the car idling .
she came out of the house uncomfortable in her high heels and sat in the passenger seat .
pulling out of the laneway he suddenly stopped .
damn ive forgotten the invitation , need that to get in .
ill get it , she said , where is it ?
i think i left it in my desk in the study , he replied .
she went back into the house and into his study .
where the hell would he have put it , she thought .
she rummaged through the top drawernothing but the usual stuff , pens , pencils , paper clips , his diary .
she looked through a couple more drawers but still couldnt see it .
in the bottom drawer an old manila envelope caught her attention , scrawled across the front , in faded ink , the wordssarawak 1965 .
curious she opened the envelope .
she froze like a deer caught in the headlights , her mouth dropped open with a gasp .
a dozen photographs fell out onto the desk , the first a photo of a headless man lying in a pool of blood .
she recognized the tattoos , the second the crumpled body of an old man lying at the foot of a ladder .
it was bloated and covered in flies .
she recognized her grandfather , the next a photo of a grave and a stone cairn , behind , carrying their weapons peter brenner and harry downer .
the rest were general shots of the old village , the burnt out longhouse , close ups of spent shells in the dirt .
she had to hold on to the desk to stop herself falling .
she tried not to panic exerting self control that was almost unnatural .
tears sprang to her eyes but she forced them back .
dick was honking the horn in the yard .
she found the invitation on a side table and went back to the car locking the house behind her .
you alright ?
asked dickie driving away , you dont look well at all .
she sat there mute hardly daring to open her mouth .
hey gem whats up ?
he asked .
i feel sick , she murmured , if it wasnt so important to you i wouldnt go .
maybe ive eaten something thats upset my stomach , i might throw up .
well get you something to settle your stomach at the club .
well be there in less than half an hour , he said .
just like her , he thought , throwing a bloody damper on something ive been looking forward to for weeks .
her emotions were crashing around in her head .
he knew..her husbandthey knewthey all knew .
all those years of doubt.of not knowing and they knew .
in the twenty short minutes it took to drive to the lodge she imposed her will .
her silat training allowed her to control herself and all the tangled up emotions that would overcome her.if she allowed it .
she knew that the true trial was about to begin , tonight of all nightsa regimental reunion..perhaps the very people in the photos .
not perhaps..for sure .
control control .
walking through the door into the lobby of the lodge which after all formed part of the golf club they were greeted by colonel ron gurney and his wife .
the colonel in mess kit as dickie had predicted , his wife looking frumpy and years older than gem although they were the same age .
the wife offered a perfunctory greeting to gema and a limp handshake .
gema responded with a brief hello and a swift , steely grip of the hand .
she saw her wince.love it , she thought .
although they were not the last to arrive there were about a hundred men in the room most accompanied by their partners .
theres more people here than i thought , said gema .
have to remember that three squadrons rotated through sarawak about a hundred and eighty men in total .
ron told me that slightly more than half would be showing up .
good turnout i think , replied dick , his eyes quickly scanning the room .
last time i spoke to you we were in kapit , the scottish burr of robbie mcelroy came from right behind her .
paan says hello , he added with a smile .
he also said not to forget what he told you .
his bulk dwarfed her small frame .
he had hardly changed , if anything he had lost weight , he looked tanned and fit .
she smiled .
hi there robbie , at last a friendly face .
brunei seems to agree with you , you look terrific .
no pubs , thats the problem .
other than that its fine enough .
he smiled at her .
she saw genuine warmth in his look .
please not him , she thought .
seen anyone else here you know ?
he asked .
not yet but weve only just arrived .
i see peter and harry quite regularly as they play golf here quite often and of course i see george all the time .
hes a member here as you know and doesnt live too far away .
robbie looked out over the crowd and suddenly waved two men over .
one was in uniform , number two dress of the royal irish regiment , a sergeant , the other in blazer and grey pants , the sergeant sporting two rows of theatre ribbons on his chest .
you remember these chaps gema ?
asked robbie , ohara and jennings .
they both worked in your husbands office in kuching .
gema shook hands .
i remember you both very well , she said .
how nice to see you again .
you havent changed one little bit , said paddy , and youre still irish , said gema , outwardly smiling .
her mind was in a turmoil , dickie seemed to have forgotten she didnt feel well and of his offer to get her something to settle her stomach .
typical , she thought .
the crowd swirled around her .
she felt like a rock .
outwardly she was polite to everyonethe wife of captain richard mason retired ex officer commanding a troop , 22 sas .
inwardly she was seething , her mind a maelstrom of conflicting thoughts .
is everyone playing golf tomorrow ?
she asked .
george replied , i think about sixty , the rest have opted to go fishing down on the wye , the lodge owns about a mile of the river .
the evening went slowly for her .
the noise level increased..hand shakingback slapping.the odd hug , men who had shared danger together meeting for the first time in years .
do you remember.. ?
speeches after dinner , remembrance for people passed .
more drinks .
gema seemed to float above it .
it was as though she was looking down on it..a casual observer .
they drove home in silence , she turned to him in the car , you knew i wasnt feeling well dick yet you insisted on staying right to the bitter end .
we could have left two hours ago and no one would have noticed .
it wasnt often she voiced her dissatisfaction .
more like her to bottle it up inside , not let it fester perhaps , more to file it away to bring out later and add it to the other issues piling up .
well youll be able to rest up over the next couple of days , golf tomorrow then over to the barracks on sunday .
ill be out of your hair , he replied .
gema shook her head in exasperationand thought of wendy at school .
chapter 11 a night at the fights .
tony sat in his favorite chair in his club feeling particularly pleased with himself .
hed just been paid the balance of the twenty grand for bringing in the merchandise from amsterdam .
the trip had gone without a hitch apparently , although they might have to do something about better ventilation for the space below the truck bed .
not that he really cared .
hed make sure to collect..dead or alive .
the more surprising turn of events was avi calling him for a different type of merchandise .
hed refused to talk on the phone quickly interrupting avi before he could open his big mouth .
ill be down at the gym in brixton wednesday evening .
drive down and meet me there .
well talk about it then , he said .
of course avi had given him an argument .
im not discussing it on the phone , tony snarled , if you want this stuff from me you get your arse down to brixton or forget it !
the following wednesday he made his way to the victoria line and took the tube to brixton , the last stop on the line .
dressed in jeans and chelsea football club jacket he fitted in well with the crowds .
it was just a short walk to the gym .
as was habit he stopped a couple of times in front of shop windows carefully watching the reflection .
once he walked into a department store and out of a different door .
he hurried across the street and watched to see if anyone familiar came out after him .
the black kid watched him from the store .
hes getting careless , he thought , getting a bit complacent .
what an idiot..im better than that , smiling .
satisfied tony continued on his way .
the kid keyed his speed dial , hes heading for the gym for sure .
have someone pick him up on the way out .
there was already a good crowd in the gym .
illegal , bare fisted fighting was gaining in popularity and not just in london .
all types were getting involved in it .
he knew professional men who fought on a regular basis .
he knew a dentist and an insurance agent , good family men with good businesses who , once entering the gym changed personas completely .
who was to know what they told their families when they showed up at home all bruised and battered.and that was the lucky ones .
some of them did it for the money or the notoriety .
some , like tony , did it for the rush .
it satisfied a streak in him that he much preferred to the character he was obliged to display the rest of the time .
there were no rules and no decision .
you either won or you lost , the other guy lying on the canvas bloodied and beaten .
some ended up in hospital .
every now and again someone was killed .
tony rarely lost .
his training allowed him to not consider the consequences..just win at all costs .
after changing in a room that , at best , could be described as a dump , he waited for his name to be called .
he sat on a bench , towel over his shoulders , listening to the crowd roaring .
he had no nerves .
he never felt nervous just a feeling of anticipation.the rush .
stepping into the ring he eyed his opponent .
hed seen him before .
he was developing a bit of a belly .
he knew him as a bit of a brawler definitely doing it for the money and , looking at his face , hed been around for a while .
the belly , he thought , thats the weak point .
stay out of his way , hell get impatient particularly if the crowd starts to boo , then hes toast .
the bell rang .
the brawler came out of his corner heavy on his feet .
he swung a tentative roundhouse at tonys head .
tony slipped out of the way on his toes and waited for what he knew was coming .
the brawler rushed in and took him in a bear hug .
he was strong for sure and needed a shower badly .
tony took a head butt , aimed at the bridge of his nose .
he took it on the forehead and promptly stamped on the guys instep .
the grip slackened .
tony relaxed completely and slipped out of his grasp .
stepping in he slashed with his foot behind the guys left knee .
he went down with a crash .
he hasnt learnt how to fall , he thought , as he danced away .
i need to get this over with .
i have to talk to avi .
id rather do that not feeling like crap.the crowd started to boo as tony had not followed through while the brawler was down .
he probably could have finished it then but why risk .
he waited for him to get up , the crowd getting more anxious .
as he stood tony gave him a foot to the stomach .
the air came out of him with a whoosh .
wheezing he bent over gasping for breath tony gave him straight fingers to the throat .
it was over !
the crowd wasnt happy but tony had other things to do tonight .
the smartly dressed man , sitting in the crowd , on the dirty bench applauded and shouted with the rest of them .
hes good , he thought , wouldnt want to tangle with him on my own .
tony showered , changed back into his jeans and waited for avi in the changing room .
theres a pub just across the street lets go over there , he said .
tony watched avi carefully over the top of his guinness .
why drive all the way down here from yorkshire ?
he asked himself , theres nothing he cant get up there .
avi , making sure they werent overheard said quietly , i need guns tony .
tony was surprised .
how come you cant get them in leeds ?
he asked .
i can , said avi , but theres a couple of reasons i dont want to .
firstly i dont want to get them locally and secondly.these are military..ideally british army .
i was sure you might have a contact .
bloody expensive , said tony , a lot of people have to be paid off .
depends what you want too .
probably cost at least twice maybe three times what they would on the normal market .
were prepared for that , said avi .
tony noticed the use of the word we .
okheres what well do , said tony , no point in driving four hundred miles round trip every time we want to talk .
ill give you a mobile number to use .
its a pay as you go number so it cant be traced .
always and i mean always call me from a public phone and never use the same one twice .
got that ?
one mistake in this and im gone .
avi nodded his head .
ill also give you a fax numbersend me the list of what you want , never use e mail you understand that ?
again avi nodded his understanding .
after youve sent me the list you wait one week and then call the number i just gave you .
i will give you a price .
there is no negotiation .
you pay for the drinks .
im outta here .
chapter 12 gower st. london wc1 rowden looked around him as he walked into the building .
it had seen better days and he knew it was scheduled for demolition .
their new home was actually under construction down on the river , thames house he thought it was going to be called .
bout bloody time , he thought , as he walked up the two flights of stairs .
green lino on the floor , scuffed walls in some sort of government beige..or was it green ?
who the hell knew , it even smelled musty , like some of the people here .
wonder why theyve brought me down from hereford ?
didnt think i was that popular round here anyway .
he walked into meeting room number three .
a group of men were sitting around a large oval table , papers strewn all over the place , a large screen at one end of the room .
closing the door behind him and noticing that it closed with a satisfying clunk .
rooms soundproofed , he said to himself .
sit down david , long time no see , howre things up in hereford ?
asked the commander and davids boss .
pretty darned quiet just now , said david , i thought there might be a bit more going on being surrounded by so many active bases .
well have to see what we can do for you then , wouldnt want you to get bored , man of your talents , said the commander smiling at his own wit .
i think you know everyone here except perhaps jerry , indicating a slim young colored man in blazer and regimental tie .
lets get on with it then .
topic on the table and the reason youre here david is tony wei and portland place .
who the hell is tony wei ?
never heard of him , thought rowden , portland place is obviously a reference to the chinese embassy .
the best way to do this is just go round the table , said the commander .
for your benefit major , he said eyeing david over the top of his half moon glasses , weve had our eyes on this pillock for over a year now , for sure his real name isnt tony wei but thats not the issue just now .
ok lets get on with it .
major just sift out the info thats relevant just now .
theres a secret file thatll be made available to you later .
there followed a detailed report on weis coming and goings over the last month .
of specific interest to david rowden was that he had played golf recently with two ex army types in hereford .
it was obvious he was in the illegal immigrant business running a truck from amsterdam to london and that he had regular contact with a known terrorist in leeds who used the name avi .
how much of this involved the chinese wasnt certain .
opinion was that wei was playing both ends against the middle .
on the one hand an agent for the chinese on the other in business for himself probably unknown to the chinese .
they had taps on his home in st johns wood , the shop in kensington and the warehouse in brixton .
he recently had a meeting in brixton with avi .
it must have been pretty important to bring him all the way down from leeds .
make sure the met keeps their hands off the fight club in hackney for the time being anyway , said the commander , they can deal with that one later .
so commander whats my play in this ?
asked david .
not quite sure yet , he replied , ill probably know better in a week or so .
wei obviously has something going down with avi so well keep even closer tabs on them both until we know more .
okay gentlemen unless anyone has something to add thats an end to this meeting .
keep me in the loop , my instincts are telling me something is going down we need to know about .
david stay back for a while would you .
the group filed out leaving all the notes on the table destined for the shredder .
lets go in my office davegrab a coffeeif you can stand the stuff .
they settled comfortably in the commanders office , feet in front of the electric fire , sipping on the not so hot coffee .
so how you making out up there dave ?
bored out of my tree , said david .
thatll teach you to be a naughty boy dave , said the commander smiling at him .
if you keep breaking the rules and taking short cuts its bound to catch up with you .
i tried to run some defense for you but the brass were insistent they teach you a bit of a lesson .
i understand where theyre coming from , said david , but why dont they understand that if we play by our rules and the bad guys play by theirs were gon na lose .
like someone saidnever take a knife into a gun fight !
hey im on your side in this , said the commander , ive known you too long .
you get results but the world seems to be a changing place .
were more in the public eye , more accountable , anyway back to the case in point .
somethings going on which might need your specific skills but let there be no misunderstanding , i cant protect you if it all goes sideways .
if it goes right youll be a fucking hero and all will be forgiven .
just what i need , said david laughing , do i stay in hereford ?
for the time being yes but ive a feeling this is going to spread all over the place .
i dont want to be getting into all sorts of jurisdictional arguments so im going to make you point in this , said the commander .
if needs be well invoke the counter terrorism act..that tends to cut through the red tape and gets peoples attention .
he took another sip of the coffee .
your army contacts still good dave ?
he asked .
most of them are still around , if not active at least still close to whats going on .
i still have good friends in the sas and the parachute regiment , if thats what youre asking ?
thats exactly what im asking , said the commander , somethings going down and ive no idea what it is .
hopefully well bring something to light in the next week or so .
he stood up .
ill be in touch dave , anything you need give me a bell , do you have a secure line installed in hereford ?
yes we do , havent had to use it yet though , said david laughing .
chapter 13 the beginning .
this has to be my favorite pub , thought david .
he was sitting in the snug in the green dragon on broad st. just down the street from the cathedral .
no slot machines or pin balls , i like that .
good beer , terrific cider .
what more can a man want ?
buy a lonely girl a drink ?
jennie plowright was standing by his stool .
pint as usual ?
asked david .
sounds good to me , where you been ?
havent seen you for a couple of days , said jennie .
jennie plowright , detective sergeant cid attached to the west mercia police .
a career cop although you wouldnt know just looking at her .
a pert thirty year old complete with freckles , turned up nose and auburn hair cut in a page boy .
he knew she had a caustic wit but was an excellent copper .
shed been divorced for a couple of years now .
shed had the occasional date but nothing serious according to station gossip .
after being consigned to the boonies of herefordshire and in order to give his presence some legitimacy david had been attached to the cid in ledbury and ultimately sent to hereford to work out of the bath street station .
jennie was his partner .
i was down to london for a couple of days , he said ordering another pint for himself .
nothing serious , bit of business , anything happening ?
he asked .
absolutely nothing , she said , a couple of break ins that the uniforms should be able to handle , kind of quiet really , you in the office tomorrow ?
no reason why not , might have to go down to ledbury some time though .
how come ?
she said .
now if i told you that id probably have to shoot you , he said laughing , just something to do with my transfer , no big thing , ill be in the office first thing though , another beer ?
the following morning he got to the office balancing a couple of starbucks , one for him and one for jennie..double , double .
she was waiting for him at the counter .
i knew it was too bloody quiet , she said .
what now ?
he said putting down the scalding starbucks .
we have a killing out at the belmont lodge golf club .
not sure whats going on .
the uniforms are out there waiting for us .
theres something weird about it apparently .
bring the coffees lets go .
whos been killed ?
asked david , keeping his eyes on the road the siren clearing the traffic .
dunno yet , said jennie , apparently theyre having trouble identifying the bloke .
at least they know its a bloke , said david , its a start , he said mirthlessly .
its bedlam , said jennie pulling into the parking lot , shit theres people everywhere , looks like theyre not letting anyone on the course .
apparently the bodys out there somewhere , these must be all the members .
hope no ones messing up the crime scene , said david , forensics on the way ?
theyve been called in , said jennie , but they have to come all the way from ledbury so they might be a while yet .
give us a chance to get a good look around then without them getting their knickers in a twist , said david .
any idea who the deceased is ?
asked jennie , heading out onto the course the golf pro driving the golf cart .
who found him ?
our first foursome of the day found him , said the pro .
hes in a bunker , on the fifth , close to the pond , four women in the group that found him .
apparently all four are in shock and a para medic has an eye on them back in the clubhouse .
they havent been allowed to leave .
who is he though ?
asked jennie again .
we dont know , answered the pro , you see he doesnt have a head and hes starkers .
they drove down the middle of the fifth fairway and came to a stop at the top of the hill overlooking the green below them surrounded by bunkers , the pond off to the right .
yellow tape had been stretched around the immediate crime scene which appeared to be the bunker on the left protecting that side of the green .
need to move the tape back at least a hundred yards radius from the bunker , said david , lets get the uniforms to do it immediately and then get everybody out of here .
there were several police and two para medics close to the bunker .
jennie walked over , careful where she was putting her feet .
jennie plowright cid , who was first on the scene ?
i was miss , said one of the uniforms .
thats sergeant to you constable .
get everyone out of here and gather by that golf cart up on the hill .
relocate the tape at least a hundred yards in every direction .
no vehicles close until i say so that includes the forensic team when they show up .
she waved david down the hill .
you ok with this jen ?
he asked .
ill survive david , dont worry about me .
the body was laid out in the middle of the bunker as if on display .
it was quite naked and lying on its back , arms straight by its side.headless .
the entire bunker had been raked , no footprints , not a blemish in the sand other than the parallel marks made by the rake .
sergeant plowright .
the voice called from the top of the hill , the forensic truck parked next to the man waving .
thatll make the grounds staff happy , said david a truck in the middle of the fairway .
stay where you are , called jennie , ill let you know when to come down .
she turned back to the bunker .
so what do you see jen or rather what dont you see ?
asked david .
theres no blood , she said , ergo he wasnt killed here .
this is not the primary crime scene .
right and wheres the rake , for that matter wheres the head ?
said david , who the hell is he ?
this entire thing is staged , whoever did it wanted him to be found like this .
theres a message herefor someone anyway .
how did he get here ?
asked jennie , the uniforms must look for signs of a vehicle , that or someone is extremely strong or there was more than one perp .
ok , said david , get the uniforms down here in an organized search but no closer than fifty feet of the bunker .
let the forensic people down here but no truck for the time being .
i want photos of everything from every angle .
tell the pro the course is closed until further notice .
as of now the entire golf course is a crime scene .
everyone out of here except the four that found the body and the staff that were here at the end of the day yesterday and first thing this morning .
see you back at the clubhouse , nothing more to be gained here .
after interviewing the staff , the lady foursome and the constable first on the scene it was apparent there was nothing more to learn from them than what they already knew .
first thing we need is an id , said david , after that the time of death and the cause .
without an id we can do virtually nothing , lets get on it !
it was several days before they were able to meet with the forensic pathologist working out of ledbury .
im afraid , as of now , i cant answer all your questions .
i can tell you from the body temperature that he died late the previous evening .
as far as cause of death..ive no idea .
he was beheaded post mortem but i can find no other trauma .
weve sent blood samples down to the forensic science service in london .
theyll send back the toxicology report when theyre done .
as for identification , nothing yet .
we took the prints and ran them through our own data base but nothing came up .
again weve sent them down to london see if they can come up with something .
one thing i can say though , the head was taken off with one single cut .
whoever did that is very , very strong .
i would think they used a sword or a machete , something pretty big anyway and very sharp .
not much help im afraid .
later , sitting in the green dragon , bloody hell were nowhere with this , said jennie , without an id we cant even start .
check with missing persons , said david .
his name is harry downer , said jennie the following afternoon in the station , his wife reported him missing in gloucester and then identified him this morning from some scars on his legs .
shes pretty shook up .
well get confirmation when we hear from the fss in london .
well its a start , said david , lets try and shake up forensic services on the prints .
it wasnt much later in the day that they received a fax from london .
well , they confirm his name is harry downer but then theres a twist to the bloody thing , said jennie .
whats that ?
asked david .
his file is classified , she replied , secret for gods sake .
david thought for a few moments .
shes bound to find out eventually , he thought , so i might as well tell her.some of it at least .
i can get the file thats not a problem , he said .
you got ta be kidding , she replied , looking at him questioningly .
its getting late in the day , lets go for a pint and ill fill you in , how about it ?
ok , but youre buying .
later , sitting in an alcove in the dragon .
ok , out with it , david , it is david isnt it ?
i thought there was something about you .
she sounded a bit hurt .
dont get niggly with me jen i just wasnt able to say anything but now ive no choice .
now youve a need to know i guess .
im actually with mi5 attached to the anti terrorist task force although thats not why im here in hereford .
truth is i was a bad boy by my bosss standards .
i cut a few corners , got sick of the bureaucracy , the bullshit , it tied my hands .
i got the job done but the brass werent happy with the how of it so they decided to teach me a lesson , ship me out to the boonies .
course theyre not completely stupid .
here in hereford were surrounded by military bases so it seemed like a good place to put me out to grass .
weve the sas close by at bradbury lines , the royal irish regiment up in tern hill and the royal gloucesters close by .
im actually a major in the parachute regiment but not active , been part of the task force for quite a while .
ive been around a bit too .
i was in malaya and borneo .
my contacts are pretty good .
thats really all you need to know i think .
not sure i like being kept in the dark , but i can see why you had no choice , she said taking a pull of her pint , so what now ?
get the file on downer and talk to the wife , he said .
chapter 14 moving right along .
tony sat in his brixton office looking at the unidentifiable fax in front of him .
expensive stuff , what they going to do , start a bloody war ?
only place to get this stuff is a military armory , he thought .
he looked at the items .
an l86 a1 , thats a brand new light machine gun , not sure its even been issued yet .
heckler and koch mp 5ka4 , thats a sub machine gun in 9mm i read about that somewhere , going to cost a fortune .
do i call or just drive up to worcester and surprise him ?
better call first and let him know im coming .
he took a number from his personal phone book and dialed it directly .
jennings , a voice answered .
tony wei , he replied , you going to be around the next day or two ?
might have a bit of business for you .
the listener in the truck at the end of the street logged the time of the call and picked up his mobile .
might have made his first mistake , he said , he called a number registered to a jennings militaria up in worcester , driving up there in the next day or two .
the commander at the other end of the phone hung up and dialed a secure number in hereford .
dave i want you to take a look at a guy in worcester .
names jennings , owns a militaria shop over there .
make it quick , need the intel within twenty four hours .
two days later tony took the bmw , turned up the m40 in the direction of oxford .
the silver grey audi picked him up as he went past high wycombe .
when he turned south on the m5 the audi was replaced by a dirty blue vauxhall .
there was already a team staking out the store and a tap on the phone .
the intel , provided by dave rowden was , in the first instance , quite surprising .
jenningss military experience was classified !
purely coincidental was the consensus of opinion .
that was twice in just a few days .
no such things as coincidences , thought david , thinking like that gets you killed .
what david did not share with london was that both jennings and harry downer had been in the 22 sas , not just that though , theyd been in the same troop in sarawak , jennings a clerk in hq in kuching and downer a trooper in an air team .
much less of a coincidence now , particularly in the light of the fact that wei had played golf with harry and someone called george mudd just a few short days ago at belmont lodge .
the team outside the shop had not had the time to get any sort of bug installed .
tony was in there for approximately an hour then left , driving straight back to london .
however they had had the time , although it took a warrant , to get the gpo to tie them into the phone in the shop , the phone at jennings home and the public telephone just outside the shop .
later in the day jennings came out of the shop , entered the public phone booth and dialed .
the recording machines automatically switched on and logged the time and date .
tern hill barracks , was the announcement .
quartermasters stores please , said jennings .
quartermaster , after a few rings .
sergeant ohara ?
asked jennings politely .
ohara , what can i do for you ?
paddy its frank , how you been ?
im going to be up over your way sometime in the next few days want to get together for a beer ?
sounds great frankie , meet me at the tudor house hotel in market drayton next wednesday its not too far from here .
1900 hundred hours okay ?
see you then paddy , replied jennings and rang off .
david and jennie listened to the recording for the tenth time .
obviously theres something going down although weve no idea what it might be , said jennie .
no question about that jen but im convinced theres some connection here with downers death , i just dont believe in coincidences .
so whats next ?
asked jen .
a number of things so well have to split the work , firstly we need to talk with downers wife , after that lets look up this mudd chap that they played golf with .
we need to check out this sergeant ohara that jennings spoke with and i need to go talk to the officer commanding at tern hill .
in case you dont know , jen , tern hill is the headquarters of the irish regiment .
by the way.have we heard back from forensic services in london ?
we really need to know the cause of death of the headless man .
he smiled grimly , i thought you said it was quiet round here !
marjorie downer was a tall , rather angular , woman in her mid forties .
she came to the door of the neatly kept semi , smartly dressed for that time of the morning .
jennie introduced them both and she invited them into the living room .
would you like a cup of tea ?
she asked , the kettles on .
that would be lovely , said jennie .
whilst she was out of the room david did a quick circuit .
there were photos everywhere but none of any kids .
mostly they were old army buddies , many obviously taken in the jungle .
some were groups of ladies with harry in the centre , obviously some club or other .
marjorie came in carrying the tray and noticed him looking carefully at some of the photos .
she set the tray down on the coffee table .
after harry left the army he opened a martial arts school here in gloucester .
lord knows whats going to become of it now , perhaps i can sell it .
we have to ask you a few questions mrs. downer if thats okay ?
said jennie .
marjorie , if i may call you that , said david .
i know about harrys involvement with the sas , ive seen his file .
youre probably worried about the official secrets act but we are both cleared at that level so you may speak freely .
she seemed relieved , she brightened up and poured the tea .
harry loved it in the regiment , most of them do .
he really regretted having to retire but he knew he was getting a little old for that sort of thing .
being a specialist in unarmed combat the school seemed to be a natural for him .
jennie asked the standard questions about known enemies and strangers hanging around .
there was nothing as she expected .
marjorie , who is george mudd ?
george is or rather was harrys best friend .
theyd known each other for over twenty years .
they served in malaya together and borneo .
harry always used to saygeorge has my six .
they played golf regularly at belmont lodge , at least twice a week .
george has done very well for himself but his wife was killed some time ago just after they bought that beautiful place in eaton bishop .
a few of them managed to stay close you know .
peter brenner comes down from leeds quite regularly to play golf , hes a pro up there .
their old co lives in hereford , thats captain mason , dickie to his friends .
hes the one that married that native girl , hes a member at the golf club too .
robbie mcelroy used to be around a lot but hes in brunei now .
he works for george out there , he was here for the reunion but hes gone back now .
we only asked about george mudd , said david laughing as they drove back to hereford .
later that day , okay , jen , lets divide and conquer .
ive asked for the file on ohara and ive an appointment to see the commanding office at tern hill .
you go talk to this mudd chap and ill meet you in the pub tonight and well share notes .
youd better call me on my mobile then because tern hill is a bit of a drive , she replied .
eaton bishop was a picture postcard type of english village only about ten miles from hereford on the banks of the wye , a bit awkward to get to as it was on the other side of the river .
she had an appointment to see george mudd at the old manor house and hed given her easy instructions for getting there .
as instructed she turned in at the old wrought iron gates and drove up a winding driveway lined with ancient beeches , at the top of the hill stood the eighteenth century manor house .
this place cost a bob or two , she thought getting out of the car in the gravel forecourt .
two black labs came bounding round the corner barking their greeting .
they wont hurt you , a tall gentleman standing in the doorway .
she took a few moments to study him before walking over to shake his hand .
he was probably about forty five .
approximately six feet , tanned and extremely fit , didnt look as though he had any fat on him at all .
he was wearing tailored cavalry twills and a tattersall shirt open at the neck .
he rough housed the two dogs as she eyed him .
im george mudd and you must be jennie plowright , he said shaking her hand firmly .
detective sergeant jennie plowright actually , she said , im attached to the cid of the west mercia police .
please come in , he said , make yourself at home , dont mind the dogs .
she followed him into a drawing room filled with light from the tall windows overlooking a paddock .
what a beautiful house , she said .
yes , i sort of rattle around in it on my own .
just couldnt bring myself to sell it when my wife judy died .
i have a housekeeper to look after the place for me , she and her husband live in the lodge house down by the main gate , works out really well for everyone as im out of the country quite often .
id like to talk to you about mr. downer but before we start i should formally inform you that i have clearance to talk to you concerning your military past .
you may call my super to confirm if you wish .
that wont be necessary jennie..may i call you jennie or would you prefer sergeant ?
he smiled at her across the coffee table .
whichever you prefer mr.mudd , she replied .
ive known harry for twenty five years , we were more than just friends .
we fought together in both malaya and borneo .
as im certain you already know we were part of c squadron 22 sas stationed in kuching .
we were in the same team .
i would think we saved each others lives several times over .
so , you see , its more than friends .
he looked sad and tired as he spoke , he was obviously far more affected by the loss than he liked to make out .
in those days we were a very small group .
just the one troop working out of kuching , four teams of four chaps each .
our hq comprised of only three people , captain mason , our co , who lives in hereford by the way and two clerks who performed functions ranging from performing radio watch to making sure we had everything we needed .
do you remember their names ?
asked jenn , intuition she thought .
i most certainly do , said mudd , my team was harry , peter brenner , robbie mcelroy and myself .
peter lives up in leeds but comes down here quite often .
he either stays with me here or with dickie mason in hereford .
robbie actually works for me and lives in brunei .
do you remember the names of the clerks too ?
asked jennie .
yes i do , he replied , jennings and ohara .
jennies heart skipped a beat , jennings and ohara , what the hell is going on here ?
any idea what happened to those two ?
she asked .
i believe ohara is still in the service although he must be close to retirement i would think .
as for jennings ive no idea .
do you have any idea what killed harry ?
he asked .
not yet , she replied , were still waiting for the toxicology report from london .
our people in ledbury couldnt figure it out .
he must have been incapacitated in some way you know , said george , harry was an unarmed combat specialist , he would have been tough to take down .
certainly take more than one..probably more than two , he said wistfully .
jennie looked round the tastefully decorated room .
what do you do for a living mr. mudd ?
he looked at her smiling you mean how can i afford all this being a retired sas trooper ?
fair question , he said blue eyes twinkling .
he looked at her .
he saw an extremely attractive woman , short auburn hair and a skin that must break out into a thousand freckles when hit by the sun .
she had a local burr to her voice and seemed very at ease with herself .
i own a security company , we specialize in oil field security .
i have a couple of customers in the north sea but my largest customer is in brunei .
robbie mcelroy is my manager there .
as a matter of interest nearly all my staff are retired sas troopers .
they know their business , theyre a formidable lot , he said laughing .
she stood up .
she couldnt wait to talk to rowden about jennings and ohara , maybe there was a connection .
harry downer dead and these two ex clerks obviously up to no good , somehow tony wei mixed up in the whole bloody thing .
got ta be off , she said , love your house .
he looked at her seriously .
id appreciate knowing the cause of death as soon as you know , would you give me a ring ?
there is a connection you know , said jennie .
she and david were sitting in a corner alcove in the dragon comparing notes .
rowden had just returned from tern hill and jennie was fresh from her interview with george mudd .
there is ?
said david , sure its not just bloody coincidental ?
weve got this wei bloke and nobody knows who he really is , whos in touch with a known terrorist and is involved in the human smuggling business .
he , in turn , is in touch directly and indirectly with two members of an old sas team .
suddenly , out of the blue , another member of the same team is murdered on the golf course and wei had played golf with him recently and with this mudd chap .
it stinks..thats what it does .
how did you find mudd ?
he asked .
he was more upset than he likes to make out , she answered .
there were four of them , all in the same fire team , seems like they went through a lot of crap together .
funny thing is , other than one , a chap called robbie mcelroy , theyre all pretty close , geographically that is , including their co richard mason .
mcelroy works for george mudd in brunei .
the big thing seems to be is there a tie in with wei ?
apparently the two blokes on the tape we were listening to , jennings and ohara , were also in sarawakin the same bloody troop as the others.so there is a connection .
well ill be buggered , said david , so maybe youre right and there is a connection with downer getting topped .
might pay for the two of us go chat with mudd at some point of time , said david thoughtfully , in the meantime have someone do a discreet financial check on him , he seems to be the only one with money..not sure why but lets do one anyway .
ok , said jennie , so what happened with you up at tern hill ?
oh shit , the guy drove me nuts , talk about full of his own importance .
he was like a colonel blimp .
eventually i had him call the commander in london .
course i could only hear one side of the conversation but i think he scared the shit out of him coz after that he was as nice as pie .
not sure he would notice anything if it was right under his nose .
anyway he had no reports of anything untoward concerning ohara .
id already checked with the ministry and got his sas recordnothing weird there either .
colonel blimp did introduce me to a lieutenant that commands the military police on the base .
he seems to have his head on right .
told me theres ongoing petty theft out of the quartermasters stores but they cant pin it on anyone specific .
hell let me know if theres anything serious .
other than that thats about it for now .
it was several days before they received the toxicology report from fss in london .
it was preceded by a phone call from one of the managers down there .
jennie took the call .
sorry this took so long , a young sounding voice over the phone , had us baffled for quite a while .
all our normal tests yielded absolutely nothing so we had to look further afield..but we got it eventually .
its an agent called antiarin.never even see it before , we also found rhamnose which is a sugar compound .
put the two together and you have the basis of the latex from the antiaris toxicaria tree .
ok , now this part is going to blow you away if youll excuse the pun..this is the poison used by the old head hunters in borneo ! !
jennie just stood there her mind spinning every which away .
another connection..but weird !
the coroner feels he has no reason to hang on to the body any longer , said jennie , back in the station with david , and marjorie downer is on our case about the funeral .
okay , said david , we might as well release it but were both going to the funeral .
i want to see whos there .
it wasnt raining but it would soon , a dull , gloomy day .
not a bad turn out for a chap without too much family , thought david , standing next to jennie on the fringe of the crowd standing around the gravesite .
thats george mudd over there , said jennie , and i think beside him , in the trench coat , is peter brenner .
whos the bloke with the wispy moustache and the gorgeous asian ?
asked david .
im pretty sure thats downers old co with his wife gema .
well ill be damned , thats ohara over there and ill bet money thats jennings with him , whispered dave .
the rest of the mourners were made up of some family , members from the golf course , ladies from the martial arts club and a military honor guard from the regiment complete with reversed arms and a bugler .
harry downer was laid to rest in an old gloucester church yard , surrounded by friends old and new , to the sounds of the last post echoing off the ancient , moss covered walls .
it started to rain .
chapter 15 gemas cave .
gema had been away for a couple of weeks and wasnt due back for another couple of days .
things had got so bad between the two of them that he didnt even know where she was .
the house seemed very empty to him what with wendy being at cambridge .
she didnt seem to call home that often in fact she only seemed to call when gema was home .
gema just hadnt been the same since the reunion , not that things had really been any good before .
she would barely look at him never mind talk to him , just the essentials usually to do with running the house and wendys needs at school , always distant..as though she were somewhere else .
dickie busied himself at work but wasnt as happy at the golf course as he had been before .
the death of harry was weighing heavily on him , he had even made a recommendation to the committee that they re design the fifth hole as nobody liked playing it any more .
it was under consideration .
the police had been to see him but he hadnt been able to add anything to what they already knew , however they were going to come back and talk to gema once she returned from wherever she was .
her car pulled into the cobbled yard in front of the house .
he didnt know if he was pleased to see her or not .
the truth be known he was a bit nervous about seeing her .
she seemed to grow stronger with time.more purposeful .
she strode into the house without her customary hi darling im home , greeting .
she came into the kitchen after hanging up her coat in the hallway .
hi dickie , she said quite softly , i have a few things id like to talk about if you dont mind .
ive had time to think a lot over the last couple of weeks and ive made some decisions that affect us both .
she walked into the living room and sat on the couch pulling her feet under her .
he followed her and sat in the chair by the fireplace looking into the empty grate .
i think for years weve been living a sham of a life , she started , things came to a head when wendy went away and harry getting killed has caused us all to think a lot about life in general .
dickie didnt even look up .
he just continued to stare morosely into the empty fireplace .
i know my job hasnt helped the situation so i am accepting part of the blameperhaps even most of it , she said trying to put a bit of a smile into her voice .
we certainly tend to go our own ways .
you have your job and i have mine .
you go to the golf course , i go to the gym or the dojo .
we do nothing together any more .
dickie weve just grown apart , it happens .
im not suggesting we split up , i am suggesting some changesproviding you agree..although wed have to completely re visit the issue if you find you cant agree with my suggestion .
she got up and walked over to the window overlooking the courtyard .
im going to move into the barn.. at least it will put that flat to use at last .
i think we should hire a housekeeper full time and i have someone in mind .
she can take the spare bedroom with the ensuite and the room opposite as a sitting room .
it would work out very well .
she will look after the house , do the cooking and everything else .
neither one of you will ever set foot into the flat , that is the only rule .
i will continue to pay my share of the whole place and we can continue to get on with our lives , really not much different to what were doing now .
if you want to go ahead and have an affair go right ahead..but not here..not in this house .
if you decide you want to split up or this arrangement is no longer acceptable please let me know and i will leave immediately and stop paying the bills .
dickie continued to stare into the fireplace .
things really havent been very good since you came back from borneo with wendy and theyve gone from bad to worse since the reunion , he said sadly , i just wanted us to be happy like that evening on the beach in kuching but i guess its not to be .
we can try your arrangement for a while and see how it goes , people are bound to find out though .
im not sure i really care , she replied , the army wives never accepted me and nearly all my female friends are either at the gym or the dojo .
you dont know them and have never expressed an interest in them so what does it matter ?
the police were here about harry , he said quietly , theyll be coming back , they want to talk to you too .
me.why me ?
she said seemingly alarmed .
just routine i suppose .
i think theyre talking to everyone that knew him , dickie offered , anyway theyll be in touch .
the barn was on the other side of the cobbled yard , probably built in the nineteenth century , stone footings and wooden siding up to a new roof .
the ground level , which used to be stables , had been converted into a three car garage and the old hayloft into an apartment .
it was large with access from an outside stairway up the side of the building to a cantilevered landing that also served as a sundeck as it was facing south .
inside a modern kitchen and bathroom with ten foot ceilings , the bedroom the same .
they had installed quite recently a new furnace , hot water heater and a phone line separate to the main house .
the open plan living area , which was huge , was open to the original beams in the roof with two large , slowly turning fans to push the heat down .
two sides were primarily window looking out over farmland.it was a spectacular room .
gema had added her own touch to it .
she had imported teak flooring which cost more than the appliances in the kitchen .
it glowed in the sunlight .
she had furnished it with bamboo and camphorwood furniture imported from indonesia and had spread , on some of the floor and parts of the walls , those woven rugs famous in sarawak and borneo..the pua kumbu..the itak .
in one corner she had built a shrine , a miniature temple , to semangather god .
lying on the shrine the head of a baby orang utang , an amulet of human hair and a small pile of smooth pebbles , to one side the drum and stick carved from ironwood .
it was the closest thing to home shed had since shed left home at the age of fifteen .
it was her caveher sanctuary .
chapter 16 the museum the jangling of the phone brought her out of a deep sleep .
shit..whos calling me at this stupid hour its my day off , she said to the empty room .
she slid out of bed dressed just in a tee shirtshe rarely slept in anything elseand grabbed the phone before the call went to her answering machine .
it better be good , i was asleep , she muttered .
detective sergeant plowright ?
a deep voice asked .
yes , she replied , waking up suddenly .
this is george mudd out at eaton bishop .
sorry to get you out of bed but something has come up which you need to know about .
can you get out here ?
you might also want to bring your partner with you .
be a couple of hours mr mudd .
i have to shower and grab some breakfast .
ill call inspector rowden now .
hows lunchtime sound ?
my oh my just look at you , said david , youve got legs !
not sure ive seen you in a skirt before .
oh shut up , said jennie .
well you look very nice i must say , nice legs , we going somewhere special ?
jennie had tried on several outfits and had settled on a black skirt , black sweater with a red blouse worn underneath , on her feet high heeled , red patent leather , shoes .
not sure i can even walk in these bloody things , she said , thought id have a bit of a change , im always slumming around in slacks and flat shoes .
yea right , said david grinning , so whats up ?
dunno , she replied , i got this call at the crack of dawn said he wanted to see us both , sounded a bit bothered actually , ready to go ?
ill drive .
driving out to eaton bishop they discussed the case in hand .
were actually no further ahead than we were before , said david , we have some circumstantial stuff against tony wei but other than thatnothing , a total dead end .
i have another meeting in london next week perhaps something will come of that .
its bloody exasperating !
pulling in through the wrought iron gates the house came into sight .
i see what you mean , said david , place must have cost a bloody fortune .
his financials all came up legit though , hes just done very , very well for himself .
parking in front of the georgian portico the front door opened and the two labs came tearing out both wearing red scarves followed by george mudd .
hello there sergeant , please come in .
you must be david rowden , pleased to meet you .
they shook hands each noting the grip of the other .
george seemed very subdued as he showed them into the drawing room .
can i get you something ?
mrs. iredale has made some lunch .
i think were fine for the time being , said jennie .
ill come straight to it then , said george , as i told the sergeant , i played golf regularly with harry downer and also with peter brenner .
peter was another member of our team in the regiment , he retired up north and became assistant pro at a golf course in north leeds .
i called him yesterday to invite him down for a while , we were all very close in the old days .
he didnt answer the phone , it was an inspector with the west yorkshire police , he told me peter had been killed !
the room was silent , each lost in their own thoughts .
david was the first to speak , how did he die , did they say anything ?
well they wouldnt talk to me would they , replied george , other than they suspected foul play .
thats the trouble with the systems in this country , said jennie , theres no central information data base .
the different jurisdictions work on their own .
wed have found out eventually but it would have taken forever .
david just sat there , looking thoughtful , gazing out of the window watching a mare with a late foal grazing in the paddock .
mind if i use your phone , its a london call ?
he asked .
go right ahead inspector , said george .
david dialed the building on gower st. and was connected to the commander .
rowden here sir , he said , this is not a secure phone , watching george out of the corner of his eye he saw his eyebrows go up and then his face go impassive .
he explained the situation to the commander and requested all the information be acquired from the west yorks and forwarded to the office in hereford .
perhaps i owe you an explanation , he said turning towards george .
george just shrugged , up to you .
ill give you the bare bones then , said david .
im major rowden of 1st para .
im part of the counter terrorist squad currently working out of hereford .
we had our eyes on a character in london who youve actually played golf with .
tony wei that cheating bastard , said george .
you remember him then ?
said david laughing , the problem is he seems to be tied in to other members of your old troop in sarawak .
david then recounted the facts , as they had them , concerning ohara , jennings and avi coupled with the fact that he could place wei at both belmont lodge and in leeds .
its all circumstantial stuff just now , we need a break .
harry downer and peter brenner were two of my best friends , said george quietly , id like to be involved in this somehow in an unofficial capacity of course .
you know thats not possible , replied david quickly , this is a security services affair now its not even in the hands of local police .
just remember were all bound by the official secrets act but the fact that its developing into an anti terrorist issue allows us a little license not normally allowed regular police forces .
lets have some lunch , said george , mrs. iredale makes the most incredible steak and kidney pie and theres always far too much .
jennie noted that his manner seemed a lot lighter now as though getting some information had allowed him to make a decision .
over lunch david and george swapped stories concerning their military histories .
they seemed to have a lot of mutual friends and acquaintances .
theyd both been in malaya and borneo and seen jungle action .
they hit it off as old soldiers usually do .
after lunch standing out by the paddock watching the horses , i knew i shouldnt have worn these shoes , said jennie , i can hardly stand in the damn things anyway .
you look very nice in them sergeant , said georgeand seemed to mean it .
if youre complementing me on my shoes youd better stop calling me sergeant , she said , smiling , jennie will do just fine .
jennie it is then , he said , call me george .
back in the study sipping on coffees brought in by mrs. iredale .
you never called me with harrys cause of death jennie , he said eyebrows up .
she looked at daviddavid said , harry was poisoned .
the coroner says he was decapitated post mortem but im not so sure whys that ?
said george .
traces of antiarin were found in his bloodstream .
antiarin toxicaria , whispered george , amazement in his voice .
he stared at the floor a couple of moments , let me show you something , follow me he walked out of the room and down a long corridor .
this used to lead to the old servants quarters .
i converted them to guest rooms .
he stopped at a solid looking door and keyed a code into an electronic pad to one side of the door .
it opens the door and de activates the alarms including the pressure sensitive pads under the flooring , he said almost apologetically , i call it the museum !
both jennie and david gasped as they walked in .
the room was windowless and quite large about twenty five long by fifteen wide .
the walls are actually steel lined and there are separate humidity and temperature controls in here , said george .
the lighting was subdued except for the individual spotlights highlighting certain items on the walls .
the center of the room was occupied by a low , green , baize covered table with two comfortable easy chairs off to one side .
on the right an extremely neat , well organized work bench with tools hanging on the wall behind .
the flooring was cherry with axeminster runners in front of each display .
the wall down one side was covered in shields , blade weapons , bows , blowpipes and small bamboo quivers , interspersed with bright , multi colored mats and blankets .
the opposite wall was covered with modern weapons .
david recognized an fln , an l7al the general purpose machine gun used by the sas , a bren gun and an armalite16 .
all the automatic weapons have been de activated , said george , in case you were thinking .
the rest are functional but the ammo is locked up separately , he said , nodding at a safe standing in the corner .
i also have several handguns but theyre in the safe too .
it might not surprise you to know that i have a license to carry as a result of the business im in , however thats not why i brought you in here , he said , walking over to the other wall , this why youre in here .
he reached up and took a five foot blowpipe off the wall .
sipet , he said , the blowpipe used by head hunters in borneo .
walking over to the safe he knelt and dialed the combination .
reaching in he drew out a short bamboo tube .
telep , the quiver the tribesmen used to carry their darts .
carefully removing the cover off one end of the quiver he removed a dart .
ipuh , he said , nodding at the black substance covering the needle sharp point of the dart , the poison used by head hunters and made from a tree indigenous to borneo..antiarus toxicarius , the poison youre telling me was found in harrys bloodstream .
they just stood there looking at each other and back to the dart being gingerly held by george the only sound the hissing of the air replenishment system .
george replaced the dart in the quiver and returned it to the safe .
theyre locked up because that stuff is still deadly , he said .
no one really knows what the shelf life is only that as long as the sugar content is not boiled off the poison is fatal .
cooking it up is passed down from generation to generation .
apparently its the sugar that causes it to be absorbed by the bloodstream .
good for years so ive been told .
without the sugar content the effects are purely temporary .
the tribes would use it without the sugar to bring down small animals and prevent the poison getting into the meat , has a sort of stunning effect so ive been told .
david had walked over to the wall and was looking at the machete type blades on the wall .
i see there are different types here , some are quite distinctive , he said thoughtfully .
yes theyre mandau or parang latok the machete in common use in indonesia and that part of the world , replied george .
this particular one , reaching up to take one off the wall , is a parang ilang commonly used by a headhunting tribe called the kayan in central borneo what is now kalimantan .
feel the balance of this thing , he said , handing it to david .
careful its bloody sharp too .
you could take someones head off with this thing quite easily , said david thoughtfully , looking at jennie .
you chaps and your weapons , said jennie , im just fascinated by these mats and blankets , the colors are so vibrant .
theyre also kayan , said george , the women are famous for it ..and their basket weaving , he said nodding at several hanging on the wall .
later , once again sitting in the study , all that stuff in your museum makes you a prime suspect , said david laughing , cant be too much of it lying around .
actually its not too hard to get , said george , the actual weapons that is and if you know how to prepare the latex they get from that tree , the poison wouldnt be too hard to make either .
as it happens ive got perfectly good alibis for both periods of time but i suppose you should check up if youre going to do your jobs thoroughly .
interesting sort of bloke .
i like him but then again we have a lot in common .
he fancies you for sure , jen .
they were driving back to hereford both seemingly lost in their thoughts .
he keeps a lot in , said jennie , he lost his wife and now hes lost two of his closest friends but he doesnt show too much emotion .
hes either a cold fish , which i doubt somehow , or its just bottled up inside him .
they drove in silence for a few minutes .
none of this is coincidence , said david , its all inter connected .
we just have to unravel it somehow .
as soon as were back in the station we must talk to west yorks and get involved in the peter brenner thing .
one thing i know for sure , jennie , before we get to the whodunnit were going to have to figure out the whydunnit .
chapter 17 dancing .
dick mason sat in his study deep in thought .
hed just put the phone down on george mudd whod told him about peter brenner .
george had sounded concerned , both harry and peter being murdered and the police seemed to be getting nowhere .
it had come to light that peter had the same toxin in his blood as had harry and that there was no other evidence of any sort of trauma whatsoever .
obviously george had a source of inside information .
the concern was the obvious link to indonesia and their pasts in the jungles of borneo .
george had little idea as to what was going on but had voiced his intention of being a little more aware of what was going on around him .
he was sufficiently concerned to tell dick that he was going to call robbie in brunei and fill him in .
what the bloody hell is going on ?
he thought , half of mudds sarawak team is dead no wonder hes getting a bit itchy .
his thoughts turned to gema .
he hardly ever saw her any more .
he knew she was around as he would see her car and the lights on in the barn but she seemed to travel even more than she had before and for longer periods .
it was almost dark .
his new housekeeper , paid for by gema , came into the room to stoke up the fire and check if he wanted anything .
he still wasnt used to having her around but it saved having to do his own cooking and bringing in a cleaner .
after all its not costing me anything so why should i bother ?
he thought to himself .
he stood up , stretched , walked over to the window and looked across the courtyard to the barn .
gemas jag was parked out front and a yellow light shone from one of the windows .
he could see she had lit a fire as the light was flickering as the logs caught hold .
what does she do in there on her own ?
gema sat , cross legged , in front of the shrine to semangat , the fire light shining off her totally naked body .
she sat with her arms out in front of her , palms facing up towards the shadowy beams of the barn roof .
she called on the souls of her forbears to enter her body .
she incanted her submission to the two divine powers , the sky and the water , depicted on the war shield on the wall , by the hornbill and the infernal snakeher personal kliau .
she was swaying to the beat of an unheard drum , the ketebung , beaten by an unseen ironwood drumstick carved by paan from one of the posts of the longhouse where her parents had been murdered so many years before .
she stood up , the firelight reflected off her glistening body .
she began the exercises of the silat , that demanding martial discipline learnt from her father .
as she moved around the teak floor her movement became less sensual , less feminine .
the beat quickened .
her movements were now the movements of the ngajat , the warriors dance , the dance after battle .
the beat quickened even more and with it her movements became more and more aggressive .
her face was almost trancelike as she moved around her personal soah .
coming to a halt , breasts heaving , she assumed the position of singalang burong the rhinoceros hornbill the national bird of sarawak..the god of war of the iban .
finally she knelt on the prayer mat , that had been paans gift , facing the shrine .
hear me my father .
i learnt at your feet .
you spoke to me of many things and i have not forgotten .
the sweat poured off her naked body and stained the mat where she knelt .
dick watched the shadowy shape rhythmically slide in front of the window lit solely by the firelight .
what the hell is she doing , he thought , exercises ?
but it looks as though she doesnt have any clothes on .
london on the phone for you dave , said jennie , handing him the receiver , i think its your commander , she said teasing him .
switch to scrambler please major , asked the voice .
im going to drive up to hereford , dave .
we can have a bit of a chat and swap information .
save you the trouble of coming up to london and i could do with a bit of a break , anywhere decent to stay ?
ill get you a room at the green dragon sir.when are you coming down ?
said david .
tomorrow if thats not inconvenient , replied the commander , ill call you from the hotel .
the following day the commander and david agreed to meet at the bath street police station rather than the dragon .
the commander confirmed that security services had taken over the murder investigation of peter brenner in the interests of national security as the commander put it .
they gave me a hell of an argument , he said laughing , but i think it was all a front .
i think they were happy to get rid of it .
forensic services confirmed the cause of death and that it might well have been administered through a poison dart .
if thats the case that makes two although brenner was not decapitated , having said that he was found on the golf course but on the driving range this time .
does this mean we have a serial killer on our hands ?
could well be the case , replied david , but i think it goes a lot further than that .
theres this solid connection between the dead guys and an old sas team that operated in sarawak .
two of the team are still alive plus their old co. george mudd lives close by and dick mason lives right here in hereford .
david then proceeded to describe in detail their interview of george mudd at his home and went on to describe the museum and its rather startling contents .
which brings us to two issues i want to discuss with you commander , said david seriously .
this sounds ominous , said the commander smiling .
my partner here , detective sergeant plowright , is almost as involved in this as i am .
the problem is she is not associated with security services and we have taken this whole mess over .
it would be a shame to cut her out of the picture , shes a good copper with a lot of local knowledge .
id like to keep her involved .
i dont see why that would be a problem dave .
ill talk to her boss and the chief constable if i have to .
dont see why i couldnt get her temporarily transferred .
whats the other ?
the others not so easy but before we get into it why dont we bring plowright in then we dont have to repeat ourselves and you can meet her .
after the proper introductions and an explanation of what was going to happen and why , david continued with the other .
i see a problem going forward with this and jennie.. just jump in if you have anything to add .
the problem might well be george mudd !
lets take a look at where hes at .
two close friends of his have been murdered recently .
they spent years together along with the guy in brunei robbie mcelroy .
together they saw a lot of action in the jungle .
this forms a bond that , unless youve actually been there , is very difficult to understand .
he is tough and obviously very focused .
he owns a security business with branches both here in england and in the far east .
he also has access to information due to his very close ties with both the sas and the parachute regiment .
for christs sake , when you think about it , he employs just about the equivalent of an entire sas squadron !
pretty scary now i think about it .
im concerned he might bring his considerable assets to bear and take the law into his own hands .
im inclined to agree with you , said jennie , its not just the two friends but he lost his wife not so long ago .
hes very quiet about it all .
hes got it all bottled up inside of him , he might think he has little to lose .
the commander got up and paced the small room .
the way i see it we have two options .
one.we warn him off but he might not take the blindest bit of notice the way you describe him .
two..we bring him on board as a consultant but on the understanding that he can never be a shooter and has no formal rights as do you two .
i think we should go with the latter , said david , and im sure jennie agrees .
hes not the type you can just warn off .
hed be very polite and then do whatever the hell he wants .
i actually think he could be very useful , added jennie , he has intimate knowledge of all the players including the two we havent mentioned yet and he can go places barred to us .
you might well be right , said the commander leave it to me to sort .
when were done here , set up a meeting with mudd and lets see if we cant get this thing moving along .
we still have the surveillance on tony wei , ohara , jennings and avi but im getting flak about the expense of it .
not to worry though im convinced theres something heavy in the wind .
jennings and ohara havent met yet and im not sure well have the time to set up complete audio surveillance but well do our best .
tony wei seems to be acting quite normally and were pretty confident he hasnt brought any more illegals into the country recently , so were pretty much at a standstill .
tons of circumstantial evidence but nothing we can really move on ... ... theyre up to something very naughty i just know it .
having missed her customary two days off jennie was taking the day off .
shed slept in and was reading the morning paper curled up on the couch still wearing just her tee shirt .
she reached for the phone as it rang .
do you shoot ?
asked the deep voice .
do i what ?
she said .
i wondered if you ever did any shooting .
i periodically drive down to bristol , to a gun club down there .
i shoot a bit of trap or skeet then go on the hand gun range .
sort of keep my eye in i suppose .
georgei wondered who the hell it was .
at least you didnt get me out of bed this time , a smile in her voice .
it might be interesting .
im qualified in semi automatic pistol and shotgun .
sounds like fun , what should i wear ?
she asked .
just come as you are jennie its just a gun club .
im just wearing a tee shirt , she said laughing .
no underwear even ?
he asked joining in her laughter , sounds good to me .
want me to pick you up ?
no its ok , george , ill drive down to eaton bishop .
its not far and its on the way .
ill be there in about an hour .
ok see you then , he said sounding happy , and dont wear those red shoes !
he was waiting outside when she arrived .
you have to make me a promise today , he said smiling .
whats that ?
she said .
no business today .
ok but only after one question , she said .
whats that ?
have you spoken to either david or his boss today or late yesterday ?
yes , he replied .
good thats all i need to know .
chapter 18 the old vanguard hes on the move , the watcher keying his mike , hes heading north on the m5 driving a really old , light blue , vanguard , looks like a collectors car to me , you cant miss it , license plate oub 123 .
jennings thought to himself , time i gave the old girl a bit of a run , market draytons not too far and theres no hurry .
half a dozen cars behind the watcher keyed his mike again .
hes going too slow , hell spot me if i stay here .
suggest you put a car on the a51 exit for sure hes heading for the meet .
he pulled the silver audi out into the center lane and accelerated by the old classic car without giving it a look .
frank took his time , rarely going over sixty miles per hour .
he exited on the a51 then turned south on the a53 towards the picturesque old market town , the old car giving him no trouble .
the ancient hotel was easy to find except some of the streets were ridiculously narrow .
he parked close by and walked the rest of the way taking in the elizabethan beamed buildings and cobbled streets .
although he was a little early he found paddy in the snug wrapped around a guinness .
want the same frank ?
he asked .
lord no paddy , pint of bitter will do just fine .
dont know how you drink that stuff , he replied .
in the palethorpes truck parked behind the pub the technician was able to barely hear their voices over the background hubbub of the busy pub .
he turned towards the smartly dressed man standing behind him .
its difficult to hear just now sir but ill be able to filter out all the background noise later and you shouldnt have any problems .
the gentleman smiled grimly and nodded his head .
paddy and frank had taken a small table in a corner .
why dont we have something to eat then go for a bit of a drive ?
said paddy , we can talk in the car , as long as im back at tern hill by 2300 hours ill be ok. you going to stay the night here ?
did you make a reservation ?
yes , paddy me old friend , im going to stay over and drive back in the morning .
i dont usually open up the shop much before ten anyway .
damn and blast , said the gentleman in the truck , were going to lose them with a ton of work completely down the toilet .
commanders going to be seriously pissed .
after dinner frank and paddy picked up paddys car and drove down the a529 towards woodseaves .
they pulled into the parking lot of a busy local pub .
paddy lit a smoke .
ok frank..whats up..whats all this about ?
a dirty blue vauxhall drove by the pub heading down the a529 .
theyve pulled into a parking lot , not getting out of the car , looks like theyre settling down for a chat .
theyre smarter than we think .
ive got a very specific order for guns , said frank , for some reason they have to be military with british army stamps on them , that makes it an armory job .
youve got to be kidding , said paddy , how the hell are we supposed to do that without getting nicked ?
ive no fuckin idea , replied frank sighing , all i know is that theyre prepared to pay a shitload of money for em so its worth thinking about .
paddy flicked the cigarette butt out of the window .
how many do they want frank and what are they ?
as far as i know paddy they only want four pieces plus ammo of course , the heckler and koch mp 5ka4 and the l86a1 , two of each .
thats some serious fire power there frank , said paddy , not too difficult to get them off the base .
the trick is to get them out without them figuring out who took em .
have to think about it a bit .
my end is at least twenty grand for the four plus any expenses of course .
thats what i figured , said frank , im going to tell em thirty , twenty for you and ten for me , going to need a timeline too .
let me think about it then , said paddy , theres always a way as long as we have some time to plan it properly .
lets get back into town , weve still time for another pint .
the commander most certainly was pissed .
jesus christ we follow them all over gods half acre , then they meet and we still dont know what theyre up to .
the chinaman is living on the straight and narrow and weve got two ex soldiers in their bloody graves , he stopped to take a breath , sorry im on a rant dave im just running out of patience with the whole bloody thing .
not much else we can do really sir , said david , other than continuing the surveillance .
we just have to react to their actions .
pain in the arse but what else can we do ?
youre quite right of course , replied the commander , how did it go with george mudd ?
he was fine with it sir , said david , luckily hes military so i really didnt have to explain anything .
i still think he might go off on his own a bit .
im tempted to give him a bit of rope and see where he goes with it .
hmmmm , said the commander thoughtfully , thats actually a pretty good idea .
hes got tons of contacts all over the place and will probably go places we cant .
if the shit hits the fan later we can always plead ignorance and fall back onto our consultant understanding .
make sure he gets all the information .
keep me in the loop .
the commander rang off leaving david to his thoughts .
chapter 19 the shooter inviting jennie down to bristol had been a spur of the moment thing for george but she sure looked good in the car .
it was a bright clear day , for a change , without any rain in the forecastalthough you can never be sure .
for the first time in over a month hed rolled his pride and joy out of the garage , a british racing green sixty six healey .
hed spent a stupid amount of money having it restored .
now it looked better than it had originally , it was worth it just to listen to the exhaust .
he gently powered the car through a roundabout , without hardly lifting his foot off the accelerator , listening to the snarl left in their wake .
he glanced over at jennie .
she had a slight smile on her face , her short auburn hair blowing in the wind .
shed dressed for the day , tan cords , a barbour jacket , green scarf round her neck complementing her coloring and sensible brogues on her feet .
he smiled at the memory of the red shoes .
you warm enough ?
he shouted over the wind , i can put the top up if you like .
dont you dare , she shouted back , i love it .
he pointed the car towards gloucester simply enjoying the driving of the car and being close to this woman in the passenger seat .
outside gloucester he picked up the m5 in the direction of bristol .
normally it took about an hour and a half from door to door but today he was in no hurry .
pulling into the parking lot of the gun club he was able to find a spot close to the clubhouse .
they sat for a couple of minutes listening to the tick of the engine as it cooled down ... in the background the banging of shotguns and the occasional boom from the full bore range .
double checking the trunk was locked he walked with jennie into the lobby .
first thing we have to do is get you registered .
theres a waiver to sign for insurance purposes .
youll have to show some form of identification he said almost apologetically .
i would think my warrant card should be enough dont you ?
she said laughingly .
once the formalities were out of the way george suggested he show her around a bit .
the club was definitely upscale .
several trap fields , including an international , two skeet ranges , a sporting clay , big bore range up to three hundred yards and an indoor handgun range .
youve got everything here , commented jennie .
actually were very lucky , replied george as they walked through the lounge .
i didnt tell you but im on the board here so i kind of know what goes on .
were close enough to the main highways to make it convenient yet far enough away for the noise bylaws to be a non issue .
we also bought the land to either side of the club and behind the full bore range .
that was a safety issue but also a damned good investment .
anyway enough of all that guided tour stuff.have you shot trap before ?
no never , she said , im qualified on shotgun but , as im sure you know considering your background , we use the remington 870 pump in a close quarters environment .
im sure this is different .
it is but youll get the hang of it pretty quick i think , he replied as they walked back out the car .
he opened up the trunk , not too much room in here , he said laughing , but enough for this stuff .
i brought you some kit youre going to need .
he passed her some ear protection and shooting glasses .
im pretty sure thesell fit you .
i also brought you a shotgun which should fit you too .
he reached into the trunk and brought out a leather case .
he opened it .
this is a purdey custom .
there are actually four barrels for it but i suggest you just shoot twenty gauge for the time being and see how you do .
what a beautiful gun , she said .
yes i had it custom engraved , its a real work of art .
they walked back to the clubhouse and leaving the shotguns on the rack by the door went to the range desk .
ive actually booked a trap range for a couple of hours .
normally five shooters use it and rotate from station to station but we have it on our own .
at first she couldnt hit a thing but she slowly got the hang of it .
after a couple of hours she was hitting ten or twelve out of the round of twenty five .
george was hitting his customary twenty to twenty two .
my shoulder aches a bit , she said sitting in the lounge sipping on her double double .
not really surprising , said george , if we ever come back we should get you a shooting jacket that has a recoil pad in the shoulder , makes life a lot more comfortable .
what do you mean if we come back , i definitely want to come back.thats if you want to bring me , she said quietly .
the wind has brought your freckles out , he murmured , and well definitely come back .
you ready to hit the handgun range ?
they walked back to the car .
after putting the shotguns away he took out two locked steel cases .
i took the liberty of bringing a couple of pieces down with me .
i already knew you were qualified .
they walked over to the indoor range and checked in with the range officer .
behind the shooting line george unlocked the two cases .
i know you guys qualify with browning high power , he said , we had to too in the sas but i brought my weapon of choice , i think youll prefer it over the browning , i brought both though .
its a sig sauer p225 .
its a bit lighter and certainly fits your hand better .
anyway try it out and see .
they shot for about an hour pretty much having the range to themselves except for the range officer .
it was obvious that jennie was not a beginner .
hey.youre a hell of a shot jennie and you scored a bit better with the sig , said george once theyd locked away the guns and were walking back to the clubhouse , how about a bite to eat ?
over soup and a sandwich they discussed the progress , or rather the lack of it , in the double murder case jennie and david were involved in .
remember im a consultant now , said george laughing , so consult !
did david tell you about the abortive surveillance we had on your two old friends jennings and ohara ?
asked jennie .
no he didnt but your commander filled me in .
he sounded as though he was getting a little pissed , replied george with his mouth full i can help a bit in this area though .
remember i employ better than sixty chaps who are all either ex sas or paras .
thats almost the equivalent of a full sas squadron .
most of them are still here in england .
perhaps , more importantly , i have excellent contacts in many regiments in the main fellas that have been rtud , returned to unit jen , after their tour in the sas came to an end .
to cut a long story short i have eyes on sergeant ohara !
the commander is keeping tabs on tony wei , jennings and the other guy up in leeds .
jennie looked a little peeved .
dont blame david jen .
i know what youre thinking .
dave was going to bring you up to speed but i kidnapped you down here before he had the chance .
glad i did too , he added smiling at her frown .
they drove home with the top up as it had cooled off considerably , neither one stopped talking all the way back to eaton bishop .
it was as if each one was hungry for information on the other , where they went to school , georges army stories , mutual friends .
too soon the healey turned up the laneway to the old manor .
mrs. iredale had turned on the lights as it was almost dark .
coming in for a coffee , jen ?
george asked .
mrs. iredale had lit a fire in the drawing room and had drawn the drapes .
it was a comfortable room the corners lit by the flickering fire .
kick your shoes off..make yourself at home , said george .
they sat , in companionable silence , watching the fire burn down .
theyd talked about music , books..the two labs lying off to one side periodically opening their eyes as though checking the fire .
george got up and placed another log on the fire , it erupted in a shower of sparks and flame .
you know george weve talked about lots of things but youve never once mentioned your wife , harry downer or peter brenner .
probably a bit presumptuous of me to bring it up i know so if you dont want to talk about thats fine too .
george gazed into the fire .
its okay , jen , he said quietly , and youre right its stuff i dont talk about and im sure thats a mistake , he picked up the poker and gave a log a poke .
one of the dogs rolled over with a grunt , legs straight up in the air , enjoying the heat .
judy was killed only a couple of miles from here .
its five years ago now.hit and runthe driver was never caught .
all my life id lived a hard life being a professional soldier .
all my life id pushed myself to extremes..probably why i joined the sas .
judy was the first soft thing in my life , if you know what i mean .
she was feminine , full of light and laughter but at the same time she could be a real tomboy .
she loved to go to the rugby matches , loved the dogs , ran every dayshe was pregnant !
he paused , memories flooding into his mind .
the problem is..its as though shes there all the timelooking over my shoulder .
the only reason i kept this house was because i knew it would be what she would want..i should probably get rid of it .too damn big anyway .
as for harry and peterthats different .
there are , or rather there were , four of us , those two , myself and robbie mcelroy .
rob works for me although thats not strictly true either , i gave him a small interest in the business some time ago , hes in brunei , runs the security business out there .
the four of us fought together for a number of years in malaya and borneo although i first met robbie in northern ireland.after all that i still cant believe harry and peter are gone , he whispered his voice and face hardening .
i spoke to rob yesterday.really to warn him.although of what im not sure .
there must be some sort of connection with the past considering the way they were both killed .
rob wanted to come home and get involved , i talked him out of it though .
the two of them sat there gazing into the fire now burning down .
i never cried you know , said george looking at her .
perhaps you will some time , she said , perhaps you will .
as she drove away half of her wished hed asked her to stay the night ... ... the other half ?
well maybe that half wished hed asked her too !
chapter 20 the irish george was out in the field , behind the house , working the dogs with the help of mrs. iredales husband .
they were both competitive field trial dogs and he shot over them regularly .
his mobile vibrated in his pocket .
sticky ?
its jimmy orourke .
oharas on the move .
im on the fleetwood ferry heading over to larne .
hes either going to be picked up or hell take a bus .
ill get back to you later .
george promptly called david and brought him up to speed who in turn alerted the teams on the other three .
he called the dogs in , got out of his boots and went into the study .
pulling his directory up on his laptop he dialed a number in belfast .
jimmy orourkes on the job for me , he said , the odds are good hes going to end up in belfast today .
get hold of him on his mobilehe might need a hand .
you can call in anyone you need , this has to do with downer and brenner , i dont care how much it costs.just intel for now though !
he then called jennie .
oharas on the move jen , ive brought everyone up to speed , nothing to do just now but wait , looks like he might be heading for belfast .
hope he does ive got a good network there , remember i was in northern ireland for quite a while .
maybe were going to get some sort of break , she said , its hard just waiting for something to happen .
by the way what do you know about dick masons wife gema ?
i have to interview her but shes been out of the country .
why dont you come over this evening jen ?
he asked , ill tell you all about her .
i might have heard something from ireland by then too .
she pulled up in front of the house later that day .
the dogs were out but they didnt bark any more , just came up to her , tails wagging , nuzzling her jacket pocket for treats.she was familiar now .
george came round from the back of the house .
thought i heard your car , he said , come on in i just heard from one of my chaps in belfast .
they sat at the ancient pine table in the kitchen .
the room was huge echoing back to when it was truly the manor house , two large dog mats off to one side flanked by dog bowls .
we guessed right , he said , he got a bus in larne and headed straight for belfast .
he was picked up at the bus station by a known provo and they met two others in victoria square .
now , what the hell is he doing with the ira ?
so what now ?
asked jennie .
he shrugged his shoulders , all we can do really is wait .
weve no idea what the meet was about , just keep giving them rope , theyll hang themselves eventually .
he smiled grimly his face turning hard .
she noticed that although still tanned he had tired lines around his eyes .
tell me about gema mason , she said .
huge stink about that back in kuching , he said smiling , there he was an officer and a gentleman in the british army getting the hots for a native interpreter , not done you know not done at all .
anyway he persevered , threatened to resign and they eventually married out there .
i know for a fact she had a lot of trouble back here in england .
the army wives just wouldnt accept her but she developed her own life .
they have a daughter up at cambridge you know and gema herself has a terrific job with a translation company .
great money apparently and she gets to travel a lot .
shes involved in some sort of martial arts thing .
dickie says shes some sort of master or something .
you remember when you were looking at that stuff in the museum ?
i told you a lot of it was kayan..well shes kayan .
look at the backs of her fingers when you see her up close , tiny tattoos that get done before theyre ten .
shes very friendly with robbie mcelroy you know , he helped her out when she visited sarawak with wendy , their daughter , not so long ago .
they sat in the kitchen , the dusk closing around the house , the room warm and cozy from the aga , smelling just slightly of wet dogs .
george looked relaxed but still tired .
they talked of little things as they had before probing perhaps a little more than before .
she was comfortable here , comfortable with this man who seemed to have everything but in fact had very little .
would you like me to stay ?
she whispered .
chapter 21 a long distance call its just normal procedure mrs. mason , she was sitting at her desk , opposite david in the bath st. station , in cases such as this we talk to everyone who had knowledge of the deceased .
she looked up at david and frowned , phone to her ear .
when would be convenient for you ?
she asked , id much prefer to come to the house .
youd be more comfortable and it would be more private .
well ok if you prefer .
ill meet you at the arte winebar at three this afternoon .
she rang off and looked over at david .
thats strange , she said , its almost as though she doesnt want me round at the house , shes insisting i meet her at that bar over on owen st , how weird is that ?
she arrived at the winebar , deliberately a little early , and chose a table that would afford at least some privacy and facing the door .
it was impossible not to recognize gema when she walked in .
what a stunning looking woman , thought jennie .
she waved her over and introduced herself as detective sergeant plowright , best to keep it formal for now , she thought .
they sat facing each other as though sizing each other up .
they couldnt be more different .
jennie was at least five inches taller than gema her freckles and auburn hair in total contrast to gemas eurasian looks and dark lustrous hair .
shes older than she looks , thought jennie , she seems nervous though for some reason .
ill come straight to the point mrs. mason , ive already spoken to your husband as im sure youre aware .
she asked her all the normal questions and made note of the tiny tattoos george had mentioned .
they talked of her life as an army wife , her knowledge of both harry downer and peter brenner .
she was not able to add anything to what they already knew .
jennie already knew from dick mason that gema had been in hereford the night downer was killed and away on business when brenner was killed .
what about robbie mcelroy ?
im told youre quite friendly with him and that you have in fact seen him recently in sarawak .
yes but whats that got to do with anything ?
asked gema .
jennie was surprised , gema suddenly seemed defensive almost combative .
probably nothing really , she answered , just that mcelroy was part of the original group and two of them are dead now .
food for thought wouldnt you think ?
i cant figure her out , she said later over a pint in the dragon .
she sat opposite david and george in an alcove in the snug .
its not that shes inscrutable , so to speak , its more that she never says anything .
she answers any specific questions but never volunteers anythingcertainly no casual chitchat .
for some reason she didnt want me anywhere near the house and when i mentioned rob mcelroy i thought she was going to have a fit .
maybe it would be a good idea for you to have a chat with mcelroy , he seems to know her better than anyone , said david , and in the meantime im going to have another chat with mr. mason .
i need to talk to robbie anyway , why dont you come over to the house tomorrow ?
suggested george , itll have to be very early because of the time difference .
id have to talk to him first anyway otherwise he wouldnt tell you a thing .
she woke in the morning not quite sure where she was for a moment .
the sun was slanting in through the tall , mullioned windows and bouncing off the large dressing mirror like a kaleidoscope .
she stretched and luxuriated in the comfortable bed under the goose down comforter .
what a night !
she remembered david leaving the pub and george suggesting they go back to eaton bishop that night rather than her drive out first thing in the morning .
sounded like a good , pragmatic step except she couldnt remember what time they eventually fell asleep .
what had started out slow and gentle ended up rough but a good rough .
she thought about clean underwear and a toothbrush and then decided she didnt really give a damn .
the click of the door opening made her pull the comforter up to her chin .
only me , he said , as he stepped into the room , i thought you said you always wore a tee shirt to bed , he said smiling at her .
not quite always , she said , but its been a long time since i havent .
he was wearing old track suit bottoms , a tee shirt with 1st para printed on the front and technical looking runners on his feet .
i run most mornings you know..anywhere from ten to twenty miles.sometimes with a bergen on my back .
i forgot to tell you that bit , he said laughing , usually pretty early too .
as long as you dont try to get me to join you , she said throwing back the comforter , three miles ok maybe even five but not that far .
what i need is a shower !
got a spare toothbrush ?
she walked into the breakfast room while george was feeding the dogs .
mrs. iredale was in there setting the table with the breakfast things .
she started to blush heavily with embarrassment and turned back towards the door .
miss jennie , the older lady said , i know youre probably feeling embarrassed but you dont have to worry about anything at all .
its as though mr. george has come back to life and is mr. george again so you just sit yourself down and ill bring the tea .
breakfast just seemed to be companionable , as though theyd known each other for years , the radio on bbc 1 , mrs. iredale bustling around like an old hen humming to herself .
mr. iredale came in to briefly discuss the days work .
seems a shame to break up this scene of domestic bliss but im going to call robbie now , lets go in the study .
george picked up his tea and walked out of the room .
by now the study was a familiar , friendly place .
they sat either side of the large partners desk in front of the window looking out over the paddock .
im going to put him on speaker phone jen and turn on the scrambler .
our government is a lot more invasive than they would like you to believe , he said smiling , at times , the less they know the better .
the connection went through as though robbie were just around the corner , robbies strong scottish burr coming through the speaker .
george advised robbie that he had company but that rob was at liberty to say whatever he liked .
they talked for a while about the brunei business and their involvement with brunei shell .
i have something else happening here too , said robbie , theyre doing more exploration down south of here close to the border .
the company seems to be concerned about terrorist incursions but more the possibility of kidnap .
were being asked to provide security down there .
right now theyre in the process of getting clearance from the sultanate for us to run armed patrols .
shouldnt be a problem though , after all theyre all in this together !
be just like the old days patrolling the bush .
okay robbie , george cut in , i want you to talk to jennie here , answer all her questions please .
shes part of the investigatory team concerning harry and peter .
tell me what you know about gema mason , robbie asked jennie .
do you want the short or the long of it jennie ?
questioned robbie .
i think more the stuff you would assume i dont know , replied jen , i already have the basicsi think anyway .
shes a throwback , started robbie , her grandfather was a head hunter if you can believe that .
it still goes on you know , admittedly in a small way but the traditional iban living in the jungle still believe in the spirit world .
gema is a traditionalist .
she was brought up in a jungle longhouse and never even saw a white guy until she was fifteen .
underneath that veneer of civilization is a kayan native.like i said a traditionalist .
shes smart and shes tough .
she was over here with her daughter not so long ago you know .
she got very friendly with one of my guys here , paan .
hes penan , one of the most warlike tribes in borneo , he guided her into her old home you know .
think she was on a bit of a quest .
you know her entire family was murdered back in sixty five , the whole village wiped out .
never did figure out who did it..bit of a mystery that.except the indos tried to blame the brits .
even took it to the un .
waste of bloody time that .
when she visited i helped her out a bit .
provided some of the equipment and choppered her out when shed done .
yep shes tough alrightstill very much at home in the jungle .
i know paan has sent her stuff from time to time .
just traditional blankets and prayer matsstuff like that .
robbie thats a great help and youre right most of that stuff i certainly didnt know , answered jennie , it helps to sort of paint a picture of peopledevelop a bit of a profile .
thanks again .
george continued his conversation for another few minutes , most of it business .
robbie , i know i mentioned this before , but now i want to stress .
there seems to be some sort of connection with harry , peter and the rest of the old team .
ohara and jennings seem to be involved somehow , somewhere , but we havent figured that part out yet .
i guess what im saying iswatch your back !
shit manits watched , said robbie laughing his deep laugh , that bloody paan , hes like a rash .
cant get rid of him , all he says is , got your six boss , hed go to the latrine with me if he thought he could get away with it .
silly little bugger , he added affectionately .
george sat on the oak bench in the old church yard .
the sun was still warm although you could tell it was autumn already..a little chill later in the day , the sun a little lower in the sky .
looking around he marveled at how time seemed to stand still in this place .
the church behind him , st. michaels and all angels , built in the eleventh century and still here .
the east window , installed in 1320 and removed during the war for safekeeping , gravestones so old you could barely read the inscriptions .
he was not a particularly religious man although he had heard there were no atheists in the trenches a hundred times , rather he admired the constancy of it all , the peace it could bring , the space and the quiet to commune .
he sat on the bench , elbows on his knees , deep in thought .
he had bought the bench some years prior and came to sit several times a month .
in front of him a simple white marble headstone with the inscription judith allyson mclelland mudd 1950 1980 .
the base of the headstone was a riot of color although starting to fade now with the waning year .
soon hed have to come with his trowel and secateurs and clean it up for the winter .
he wished it would snow this winter , it always seems quieter and more peaceful under a blanket of snow .
he sat up straight as though hed just made a decision .
judyits time for me to move on now .
ill never stop loving you .
you were my life and i know youre still there but ive met someone who , for the first time in five years , has brought back the light in my life .
you would like her and she would like you .
there are no secretsshe knows all about you and now you know about her .
later i will bring her to visitif she wants to of course .
he then told her all about harry and peter as though it were some sort of catharsis for him .
they were two of my closest friends .
we trusted each other implicitly and often placed our lives in each others hands .
i promise to find out what happened as they would for me , i know you understand .
he stood up and nodded as though a weight had been lifted off his chest .
the church looked on as benevolent as ever , it would still be there after theyd all gone .
he turned his back on the white , marble stone and strode through the lych gate as erect as ever perhaps more purposeful than before but at peace with himself and with what he had to do .
part 3 chapter 22 christmas is coming at about the same time many of the old churches in the district were being built , so was st. marys in what used to be drayton in hales in the diocese of lichfield .
in 1245 king henry the third granted a charter to the church to hold a weekly market just off the church property .
the village that slowly developed around this market became known as market drayton .
the wednesday market is still held to this day .
paddy ohara followed the young tour guide around the old norman church noting the additions and changes that reflected the current age the ramp to the north aisle , the new servery and kitchens , the lack of an alarm system , the simple locks .
the guide continued in the early twentieth century lay people got more and more involved in the life of the church .
the raising of money for the ongoing renovations , the youth club and the many charities st. marys is involved in is now managed by the church wardens .
our most successful charity is the collection of christmas gifts for the needy .
we collect from all over the diocese , store and sort them here and then distribute them to local children who would otherwise have very little at christmas .
paddy had heard what he needed to hear , had seen what he needed to see .
he walked out of the church and round to the parking lot at the back , noting the proximity to the kitchen doors and the exit to the road .
st. marys not being in the center of town was a distinct advantage .
he smiled to himself .
later he called frank jennings .
it can be doneexpensive but possibleall a matter of timing .
from a different call box he dialed a number in belfast .
its a go !
essential you arrive on wednesday the eleventh of december , thats market day and you wont be noticed .
the game will be played friday the thirteenth , vehicles not a problem , he rang off .
it was crisp that morning with the type of blue sky that heralds a really cold snap .
the labs chased each other through the cover and reveled in rolling in the light dusting of snow .
they were dressed for the outing , boots , parkas , thick winter gloves .
george was carrying a chain saw , jennie a small handsaw .
its years since i chopped down a christmas tree .
he said .
fact is i havent done it since judy died .
he was casting his eyes around looking for a suitable victim .
if we put it in the hallway by the front entrance we could go to twenty feet or so , said jennie .
yabbut you can haul the darn thing back jen , he said laughing , if you want one that big ill go back and get the tractor and well tow it back .
he stopped , put down the chain saw and pulled her close to him .
im looking forward to this christmas .
im tired of just going to the golf club , thisll be like the old days , a tree , christmas decorations , a turkey , christmas music and friendslife is good.thank you .
he looked into her eyes and kissed her on the end of the nose .
remind me to pick up a couple of kids gifts .
i have to drop them off at the barracks .
they have this friendly competition with some of the other bases in the region as to who can collect the most gifts .
they cut down a tree that was , of course , far too big , got the tractor and towed it to the front door .
after cutting off several feet from the base , trimming the lower branches and with the help of mr. iredale they eventually got it into the front hallway and up on its stand .
it just fit..but only just !
the three of them , david , george and jennie sat around davids desk in the station waiting for the connection for the conference call with the commander in london .
they were no further along with the two murders .
tony wei had had conversations with avi in leeds but the only item they had been able to glean was that their business would be concluded before christmas .
doesnt help us too much if we dont know what that business is , said the commander .
george reported on ohara .
he was in an anglican church the other day .
no idea why , his army records show hes catholic .
st. marys is in market drayton , after that he just went back to clive barracks .
id like to come back to downer and brenner , said jennie , are we sure were talking about the same killer in both cases ?
thats an educated guess on our part , replied the commander , the cause of death is so unusual as to make it a good bet but of course its all circumstantial still .
are we sure its a man ?
asked jennie .
both george and david seemed to think so based on the strength it would have taken to take down both men experienced in hand to hand fightingone an expert .
i hear what youre saying , said jennie , but whos to say its not a woman ?
jennie pushed the doorbell again .
she could hear it ringing stridently inside the house .
she looked around .
nice looking place , obviously an old farmhouse with the barn behind her on the other side of the cobbled yard .
it looked as though it had been converted into a garage with the triple overhead doors and maybe a flat over the top looking at the steps going up the side of the old building .
she turned to leave .
it was getting bloody cold as the year headed towards christmas and standing around on somebodys front step was not her idea of pleasure .
suddenly the door opened , a middle aged lady stood there .
can i help you ?
she asked , sorry i took so long to get to the door but i was down in the cellar and only just heard the bell ringing .
jennie showed her warrant card and introduced herself and asked for either dick or gema mason .
im sorry neither one is home just now perhaps youd like to leave a message .
so who are you ?
asked jennie hoping she sounded chatty and friendly .
im mrs. trenholme , im mr. masons housekeeper .
well then perhaps you can help me out a little , may i come in ?
she took a step forward making it difficult for mrs. trenholme to say no .
youd better come into the kitchen miss , i was just about to make a pot of tea anyway , said the older lady turning away down the corridor towards the back of the house .
jennie thought a change of tactics might do the trick with this lady .
its not miss by the way its detective sergeant , she said striding into the kitchen and sitting down at the table .
when will the masons be back ?
she asked .
i really couldnt say , replied mrs. trenholme .
couldnt or wouldnt thought jennie , things just didnt seem quite right here but she couldnt put a finger on it .
put it down to female intuition she thought .
maybe if i scare her a bit shell open up .
mrs. trenholme im in the middle of an investigation into two murders .
im not suggesting that your employers are involved..in fact far from it but i do need background information .
mr. and mrs. mason knew both the deceased .
the middle aged lady put two mugs on the table and sat down looking at the kettle as though willing it to boil and give her something to do .
mr. mason is over at the golf club , belmont lodge , i doubt if theyre playing , its very cold but he goes over there quite often for lunch and a game of snooker .
what about mrs. mason ?
asked jennie , mrs. trenholme looked embarrassed and adjusted her pinafore worn over skirt and blouse .
it was mrs. mason that gave me the job , she said quietly .
i come in every day , keep house and cook for mr. mason when its required .
ive never seen mrs. mason in this house , said trenholme , she lives in the flat over the barn .
she seems to be away a lot .
ive never even seen the two of them talking , they seem to be estranged .
so youve no idea where she is or when shes coming back ?
questioned jennie .
no miss.we never do .
if her cars there , she drives a green jaguar , we know shes home .
thats all we know .
anything else you think i should know ?
asked jen , dont worry its all quite confidentialreally just between you and i , she waited .
there is one strange thing , replied mrs. trenholme , when i started here she told me that i was never to go into the flat .
she was quite emphatic about it .
on top of that ive never seen mr. mason over there either , its as though its off limits .
mrs. mason spends a lot of time with the daughter.wendy but even when she comes to visit she doesnt stay in the house , she stays in the flat with her mother .
i love this room , she said , i love this house and youre not too bad yourself either , she added laughing .
she was sitting on the carpet leaning back on the couch one of the labs lying with her head in her lap the other quietly snoring in front of the roaring fire .
so , george , whos coming over for xmas ?
she asked .
george , lying stretched out on the couch , stroking the back of her neck affectionately answered , not absolutely sure yet .
im still waiting to hear from robbie .
id like him to come and its quite a while since he was in england .
i know dickie is coming and probably wendy if she comes down from cambridge but dick wasnt sure about gema for some reason .
im pretty sure david will come and he might bring a lady friend from london and , of course , there will be mr. and mrs. iredale .
so that makes nine..eight for sure i think .
good enough crowd for dinner .
what excuse did dick make for gema ?
asked jennie playing with the dogs ear .
just said that he didnt think shed be able to make it replied george .
theyre estranged , said jennie and continued to tell george about her entire conversation with mrs. trenholme .
doesnt surprise me , said george , what i am surprised about is that it lasted as long as it did .
shes an enigma , said jen as though talking to herself , ive only met her the once .
its as though she doesnt quite know where she belongs .
she lives her own life , seems to dote on her daughter , obviously has her own source of income.but strange .
chapter 23 charity and the church wednesday was market day , had been for over seven hundred years .
paddy knew this from the tour guide , not that he really gave a shit .
what he did know was that the town center , around the buttercross , was inundated with people attending the market from outside the town .
looking around he could see that it was not like the summer .
nowhere near as many produce stalls , which was hardly surprising , still plenty of people though , braving the cold and manning stalls of all types .
enough people into which six extra could easily disappear .
theyd been instructed to travel by different routes although they all originated in and around belfast .
they were all staying in different hotels and bed and breakfasts , all within walking distance of the center of town .
paddy strolled through the market but could not make them out .
he knew they were there but that they had been instructed to remain unobtrusive .
each one knew his job and they wouldnt be coming together until the friday .
he did two complete tours of the market periodically stopping to say hello and chat to people who were , in fact , suppliers to the base .
as quartermaster sergeant he had a lot of contact with local suppliers .
later that afternoon back in his office , in one of the large service buildings , looking out through a window he could see the five , large laundry hampers on loan from one of the local dairies .
these were loaned annually to st. marys church for the collection of christmas toys .
they were almost full already .
theyd received toys from bradbury lines , copthorne barracks and mod donnington plus their own collection here at clive .
the collections had been done a little earlier this year .
much of the garrison was already on extended christmas leave and one entire company was down on the brecon beacons training with 22 sas .
this left the base very thinly manned , a few of the raf personnel as clive was also home to a helicopter training squadron .
the administrative levels of the irish rangers were all doubled up to allow extended leaves and there was a small guard on dutynot that there was too much to guard after all .
even paddy had double duty over the holiday not only being responsible for the quartermaster stores but also the armory .
paddy glanced at the full laundry hampers and decided it was time .
using the office phone he called the church in town , spoke to one of the wardens and suggested he send the church truck to pick up the five hampers of toys but not before 1800 hours as the docks would be occupied until then .
at 1700 hours the two clerks in the office plus the warehouse staff went off duty .
they would not be replaced until the following morning .
ensuring that everyone had left the building he took half the toys out of one hamper and stacked them into the other four .
using the keys , entrusted to him , he accessed the armory through the steel door leading down to the well lit basement .
unlocking the security chains he took the four automatic weapons and buried them underneath the toys in the fifth hamper .
using another key he accessed the ammunition storage facility and took approximately five thousand rounds over the two calibers .
he buried these also topping up the cart with toys from the other four .
locking the doors behind him he went back to his office to wait for the truck .
he was relying on two assumptions that would culminate in either twenty years in jail or his ability to retire a year earlier than planned firstly that the armory would not be accessed until the training company returned from the beacons .
secondly that by the time the truck got back to the church it would be so late that no one would touch the toys until the following day .
not a bad bet he thought to himself .
at about 1815 hours a large white truck with st. marys church emblazoned across the sides , driven by an elderly gentleman , backed into the loading bay .
paddy opened the electric overhead doors and offered to give the old gentleman a hand loading the hampers .
the old man gave him his hand , extended the churchs thanks to everyone that had contributed and to paddys help specifically for coordinating the annual charitable effort on behalf of the local bases .
with a merry xmas he climbed back into the cab and drove away .
the guard in the guardhouse at the main entrance waved him through and wished him a merry xmas also .
paddy stood in the warehouse door how ironic , he thought , a church of england truck hauling stolen guns out of one of her majestys military bases.have to see the funny side of it .
were an item !
david and jennie were sitting in the dragon enjoying a pint after a day of paperwork .
she was responding to a question from david concerning george mudd .
thought so , said david , he fancied you right from the get go you know , you could see that .
i hear youre coming over for christmas dinner , she said , bringing someone so ive been told , she said questioningly but with laughter in her voice .
yes and old friend from london.pauline .
weve been seeing each other for a long time now .
we wont be staying over or anything like that , that would be a bit embarrassing for her but shell be in hereford over the new year , should be fun .
george says therell be eight or nine of us but he didnt know about gema mason , said jennie .
funny you should mention her , i saw dick mason the other day , just bumped into him , he looked like crap , replied david .
i asked him about gema he just mumbled something about not even knowing where she was or when she would be home .
the whole situation seems to be tearing him apart .
if its that bad why dont they just split up , period ?
jennie though about it for a moment or two , you know i wonder if she feels she has a reason to stay in hereford because , without good reason , why would anyone persist in such a strange living arrangement ?
it was bloody cold .
frank jennings sat in his black van behind st. marys church .
he couldnt run the engine in case it was noticed..never mind the noise .
he was far enough away from the main road as to be almost invisible providing a police car didnt patrol through here .
he was waiting for 0400 hours , that hour when most people are truly asleep and people who should be awake are half asleep .
on the hour he pulled on his gloves and removed the bulbs from the lights in the interior of the van .
he opened both back doors and left the drivers side door ajar in case he had to get out of there in a hurry .
on his rubber soles he silently approached the door to the kitchen at the back of the church .
based on the intel provided by ohara he slid a credit card down the crack between the door jamb and the lock and was rewarded by a satisfying click as the door quietly opened for him , he stepped into the church .
inside it wasnt much warmer than it had been in the truck , he could almost see his breath in the light cast by the shaded flashlight .
he held the flashlight down and made a mental note of the location of the windows , he didnt want to inadvertently advertise his presence .
he could see he was in a kitchen area , the room bordered by long white counters .
the room looked new and was obviously part of a recent addition .
there were two doors , fifty , fifty chance he thought and took the one on the left .
it was even cooler in here than in the kitchen .
he had a feeling of space and risked shining the light a little off the floor .
he was in the nave , the moonlight trying to pierce the shadows through the old stained glass windows , rows of pews stretching to the opposite aisle like windrows in a hay field .
a sudden fluttering of wings high up in the arched roof nearly made his heart stop .
a pigeon locked in for the night after the evening service .
slowly his eyes became accustomed to the gloom .
saints looking down on him from niches in the walls , up past the transept the chancel could just be seen through the ornate carved screen .
he had the feeling that the church was watching him .
paddy had told him that it had been here since norman times , he thought that through its life it had seen much worse than frank jennings but it nevertheless made him feel uncomfortable .
theres no way theyre out here , he thought , so much for my fifty , fifty chance .
he retraced his steps back into the kitchen and tried the other door .
this looked more like it , the servery as paddy had described .
rows of tables and chairs set up for informal gatherings and for feeding the needy .
over on one side a large aisle had been created specifically to park the five large laundry hampers loaded with toys .
shining the flashlight on each of the carts he could easily see the one that paddy had identified .
he quickly unloaded the toys to reveal the guns and ammunition below and started to transfer everything to his van parked outside .
the weapons themselves didnt take long at all and werent particularly heavy .
the ammunition was different though .
five thousand rounds took him over a dozen trips to the truck .
by the time he was finished hed built up a sweat and was mouthing obscenities aimed at paddy ohara .
once finished he carefully re distributed the toys amongst the five carts and , making sure the door locked behind him , quietly drove away .
he left no sign that anyone had even been in the church that night .
turning the van south , humming quietly to himself , careful to stay within the speed limit , he headed towards london , tony wei and a good payday .
chapter 24 surgical the barracks had something of a pastoral air about them , lots of green space , red brick buildings..playing fields.the old control tower .
it had originally been a ww2 air force base but was now home to an raf helicopter training squadron plus the barracks themselves were occupied by a small battalion of the irish regiment attached to a fast attack force .
the property itself was divided by the a41 , a busy highway connecting to the m56 up north by chester and the m6 to points south , although thats not the way it was originally designed .
the family accommodation area and service centers were a short walk from the service buildings on the other side of the highway .
they comprised of married quarters , a couple of low , dormitory buildings , a convenience store , kiddies day service and playground , a caf and petrol station.all closed for the night .
the barracks themselves were a mixture of red brick buildings and modern warehouses , including an administrative building , quartermasters stores warehouse , offices , three story dormitory buildings and a gym .
at this time of the year , being almost christmas , the base was almost deserted .
an irish company was still training down in herefordshire with the 22 sas and most of the remaining personnel were on extended christmas leave .
on duty was a small guard force plus raf maintenance personnel .
it was scheduled to stay this way until after the new year .
paddy ohara , as one of the senior ncos on base , had his own bachelor apartment in the family accommodation area about a fifteen minute walk from his office.a neat little apartment in a co op type building .
tonight he couldnt sleep .
he lay in bed repeatedly looking at the clock on the bedside table willing the hands to turn .
there was still plenty of time to go .
through the bedroom window there was no blush of daylight .
it was still pitch black outside with good cloud cover making it even darker , dawn was still three hours away at this time of year .
he looked at the clock again .
the camp guard wouldnt change until 0600 hours the replacements not even showing up at the guardhouse until 0530 .
the clock said 0400 hours.half an hour to go .
everybody should be in position by now .
the previous evening , just after the pubs had closed , a dark colored van rolled down the a41 .
a quarter mile short of the base , within sight of the yellow lights of the guardhouse at the main gate of the base , the van pulled over onto the shoulder .
the driver got out , rummaged in the back of the van for his tools and proceeded to change his left front wheel .
checking that the road was clear in both directions he tapped twice on the side of the van .
two men climbed out of the back and , without a word , disappeared in the direction of the playing field off to one side .
within ten feet they were virtually invisible .
they were both dressed entirely in black their heads and faces covered in black balaclavas .
both were carrying back packs and uzi sub machine guns strapped across their chests .
they made it across the playing field unseen by anyoneit was so dark they couldve just casually walked acrossand took up position by the decorative hedge bordering the empty parking lot about fifty yards in front of the quartermasters stores .
they settled in for a wait of about five hours .
paddy looked at the clock yet again , the hands had hardly moved .
by now the other two teams should be in place .
two men should be in front of the main gate on the other side of the road having infiltrated their way across the old aerodrome to the north , the other two sitting in their van three miles down the road , tucked in through a farmers gate and invisible to any vehicle passing through the night .
all six waited with the patience of the well trained .
at 0425 the two men in the van pulled out onto the road and headed in the direction of the base .
at exactly 0430 the van was in sight of the gates and blinked his headlights twice .
the two rocket propelled grenades hit simultaneously , one hitting the gate itself and the second hitting the small guardhouse killing the two troopers instantaneously .
the van accelerated through the demolished gate and turned in the direction of the qm stores .
the two men in front of the main gate held their position to provide covering fire if necessary .
the two , lying by the hedge for the past five hours , ran forward and placed a breaching charge against the door to the stores and stood to one side .
as it blew the van pulled up in front .
one man jumped out with cable cutters and joined the other two in the building .
the fourth turned the van around and opened up the back doors .
a second breaching charge blew the door to the armory .
they had four minutes to get out as much as they could carry .
five minutes later they exited through the wrecked main gate , picked up the two lying in the ditch and turned north west on the a41 .
the entire exercise took seven minutes !
it took almost half an hour for the new guard and the small section of military police to determine that the threat was no longer in the immediate area .
it took better than forty minutes to throw up road blocks on all the major arteries in and around the base and market drayton .
it took over an hour for the quick response team to arrive from hereford .
by the time the protocols had all been followed the six were long gone .
theres no bloody way this is a coincidence , the commander was truly pissed .
jesus christ we dont even know how many people were involved never mind who they were .
david and jennifer sat at the desk listening to the ominous silence coming from the speaker phone , before either one of them could speak , sorry guysi know its not your fault .
im going to take the chopper .
ill be there in about an hour .
get hold of george mudd i want him there and get an inventory from tern hill .
i want to know exactly whats missing including the serial numbers .
before he left for hereford he instructed that the surveillance be increased on tony wei , frank jennings and avi up in leeds and that any movement reports be immediately forwarded to major rowden in hereford .
less than two hours later , with a clattering roar , he touched down in a local park in hereford much to the excitement of the children playing in the playground .
within fifteen minutes the four of them , the commander , george , david and jennie were sitting in davids cramped , little office on bath st. david was pouring over the surveillance reports that had been faxed from london and the commander was going over the inventory reports provided by the military police at tern hill .
the surveillance team seems to have lost touch with jennings for a while commander , said david , they lost him around lunchtime on wednesday last and he just pops up in his shop thursday afternoon .
hmmm , the commander thoughtfully , but thats before the attack on the basemight just be the only coincidence in this whole bloody thing .
jennie chipped in , but surely your team knows what its doing , they havent lost him before..perhaps he wanted to be lost , certainly food for thought if nothing else .
the commander was reading the inventory report .
they got away with twelve m16s , twelve browning high power pistols and two each heckler and koch mp 5ka4 and l86a1s plus a raft of ammunition .
doesnt seem to be a hell of a lot considering the downside but guess who signed the inventory reports..sergeant patrick ohara..now theres a coincidence !
george had been quiet up to this point .
he had read the initial reports on the attack sketchy though they were .
lets look at what we actually know , he said quietly .
paddy ohara has dealings with people , either directly or indirectly , that the security services are watching very carefully .
he travels to belfast where he meets with three known provos that we know of .
within weeks the base of the 1st battalion irish is bombed , two troopers are killed and weapons are stolen out of the armory .
its obvious that the strike was both professional , surgical and required inside information .
he had the attention of the other three now , they were leaning back in their chairs listening .
he sat , with his elbows on the table , gazing at the wall lost in thought .
if i was planning a strike like that i would do it with six to eight peopleno more .
i would have had at least two of them on the base during the night and i would have picked the same time of night to attack .
they must have had a good idea of the response times as they were obviously long gone by the time everyone got their acts together .
the commander leaned forward in his chair and said , the fact that two of our boys were killed turns this into something else which , in itself , gives us a lot more license than normal .
i agree that we have to assume , for now anyway , that the provos are responsible , probably in cooperation with ohara .
we will go down that road for the time being at least .
george interrupted , we know the identities of the three gents that ohara met in belfast , it will not be too difficult to find out who else was involved.my team can look after that for you .
the commander looked up and smiled .
i knew youd have your uses , he said .
chapter 25 ask no questions get no lies one of the oldest pubs in belfast is whites tavern .
some say its been in existence since 1630.perhaps it has , perhaps it hasnt it doesnt alter the fact that its popular with both the locals and tourists alike serving up good traditional music , excellent food all to be washed down by one of the best pints of guinness in the cityso they claim .
hed been coming here for years .
he liked the very irishness of the place , the malt smell of the beer on tap , the constant chatter , the lively music of an evening .
often there was someone here he knew..someone to chat to .
not so this evening .
he thought there might have been more people in being so close to christmas although it was a bit early .
he sat in the middle of the long bar , enjoying being on his own for the time being , chatting with the barman as he polished glasses and pulled pints .
he sensed rather than saw the two men behind him .
looking in the mirror , behind the bar , he saw them , both about his age , really no different than most of the chaps that come into the pub .
one of them looked vaguely familiar .
the one on his right bent down to his ear , good evening john , how are you ?
i havent seen you around for a while .
the voice was cultured irish , quiet , pleasant in a way , sounded more like donegal than belfast .
wed like you to come with us , pay your tab and just walk out with us .
he stiffened and sat for a few seconds pondering his optionsa voice from his left , still quiet but definitely not cultured more falls road than anything .
if you think its my dick you can feel in your back youd be wrong , now be a good boy , pay your tab and just walk out of the pub with us nice and quiet like .
the three of them got into the car parked at the curb , the driver pulled out into the traffic .
the one with the gun , who looked as though he knew what he was doing , said , get on the floor and keep your eyes down , try anything stupidhe left the rest unsaid .
they drove west for almost an hour , out along the a52 , the ballyutoag road .
john hadnt heard another vehicle for over twenty minutes .
eventually he felt the car turn onto a bumpy lane , he could hear the splashing of the , not yet frozen , puddles under the car .
they pulled up in front of an old farm house , surrounded by trees .
it had started to snow and the wind was threatening to drift the snow against the buildings .
the driver said conversationally , place has been in my family for a long time , beautiful in the summer but a bitch in the winter .
no neighbors or anything .
bit too isolated for mebut it has its uses .
they walked him into the kitchen .
sit down john , said the cultured one nodding his head towards one of the pine chairs at the table .
they tied him to the chair with plastic ties .
would you like some tea ?
the cultured one again , before we have our chat i think we should light a fire and make a pot of tea , its a bit chilly in here .
slowly the room warmed up as the peat took hold .
the one with the gun took off his parka and poured three mugs of tea .
john.milk and sugar ?
the cultured one again .
john remained silent .
no need to be rude old boy , again the cultured one .
he took the mug , poured the contents down the sink and sat down on the other side of the table .
he smiled at john .
it should be obvious , even to you john , that weve brought you here for a little chat , he smiled again .
we know you were at tern hill the other day and , just in case you dont know , the two troopers in the guardhouse died .
i should add , by the way , that right now the authorities really dont care what happens to youjust thought id throw that out so you get the whole picture..only fair after all .
we really only have one question for youwell more than one actually , he was still quiet and polite .
we know who three of your group are but we also know that it couldnt have been pulled off with only three , so we would like to know the names of the others .
take your time john theres no hurry .
he got up and poured himself another mug of tea .
the room now was getting quite warm .
its also pretty obvious that you had inside information so we would also like to know who the contact was and who organized the whole thing..perhaps it was the same chapwho knowsso what do you have to say john ?
go fuck yourself , said john straining at the ties .
you know im really remiss , said the courteous one , i failed to introduce myself .
my name is james , people call me jimmy.jimmy orourke actually , thats probably all you need to know just now .
to be fair i should probably explain your options to youas i said before the authorities really dont care what happens to you as long as there is some sort of retribution .
the nature of that retribution is entirely up to you .
you can tell us what we need to know right now .
for that we simply hand you over to the authorities .
you will be found guilty of a terrorist act or second degree murder or both i suppose in which case you will serve a considerable amount of time but , and i cant stress this enough for you , you will be alive .
the other options i leave to your imagination , are you sure you wont have some tea ?
he turned to the driver of the car , could you put the kettle on again please and then get that large poly tarp out of the back of the car .
we really dont want to make a mess in here.. do we have any biscuits ?
they sat around for quite a while enjoying the tea and biscuits .
john on his chair had been placed in the middle of the large blue , plastic tarp .
jimmy took a notebook out of his jacket pocket and an old fashioned fountain pen .
unscrewing the top off the pen he looked up at john .
okay john the moment of truth , firstly the names of the men with you at tern hill .
go fuck yourself , said john , sweat shining on his forehead .
youre a very rude man , john , shoot him in the left kneecap please !
the roar of the gun exploded in the room .
johns scream was drowned out by the crash of the chair as it hit the floor .
the tarp was spattered with blood from the shattered knee .
pick him up theres a good chap , said jimmy quietly .
has he passed out ?
hmm well ask him again when he comes round .
the pleasant smell in the kitchen of the peat fire was now replaced a mixture of burning peat , cordite and the coppery smell of blood .
john sat in the chair , chin on his chest , his face waxen in shock the blood from his shattered knee dripping onto the tarp .
hes awake , said jimmy .
john i really do dislike this unpleasantness but i must insist on getting the names so you give them to me now and then well get your leg fixed up .
john looked at him balefully almost biting through his bottom lip in an attempt to quell the waves of pain .
you might as well kill me now , he whispered .
goodness..no point in that , said jimmy , shoot him in the other knee please .
again the gun roared out , the kneecap visibly shattering in front of them .
john and the chair were thrown across the room by the force of the heavy caliber bullet .
untie him now , said jimmy , hes not going anywhere .
lie him down on the floor and get the poor chap a pillow for his head .
john came round to find himself lying on the floor .
the kitchen lights were dazzling above him , the windows dark with the coming night .
he could see the two shapes sitting at the kitchen table .
he tried to move .
the effort brought a moan of pain to his lips .
good show.hes come around at last , said jimmy .
one of the shapes stood up and kneeled by his side .
those legs look pretty bad john , sorry about that but , like i said before , i really do need the names .
john tried to speak .
shhhh , said jimmy , before you try to be rude again let me explain something to you .
weve done this before , youre not going to die .
next are your elbows then your eyes , we can keep you alive for days if needs be , he sat back on his heels so whats it going to be john ?
oharaohara , whispered john .
chapter 26 was the night before christmas..almost anyway .
tony wei sat in his club in kensington .
the attack on tern hill had been relegated to the third page in the times .
speculation was rife concerning the circumstances although details were sparse to say the least .
this , tony assumed , would be due to the security forces clamping a lid on any and all information , d notices flying around all over the place , that throwback to the last war that prohibits publishing information that might threaten national security .
his greatest concern was that this had something to do with jennings .
he had never felt this exposed , after all two troopers had been killed .
if he could be tied to the event he could be considered as guilty as if he had pulled the trigger himself .
for years he had prided himself on his tradecraft , now he was kicking himself for getting involved in something where the gains , frankly , did not justify the risks .
he had been complacent , he knew it and now the knot in his stomach was becoming a constant reminder .
if caught and proven that he was indirectly involved in the tern hill affair none of the options were overly attractive .
if proven and he could be tied to the chinese embassy his , life expectancy would be considerably shortened .
if not tied to the embassy he would get at least lifehed be an old man by the time he got out .
maybe he would be deported but to where ?
if to china , same thinghe wouldnt live too long .
viet nam ?
his papers were false and wouldnt stand the type of scrutiny that deportation demanded .
the more he thought about it the more his imagination ran riot , the more his stomach got into a knot .
he had set himself up as the middleman.jennings as the source.avi as the client .
surely if these two were out of the picture nothing could link him to tern hill .
having thought that he came back to the fact that he still hadnt heard from jennings so just perhaps tern hill didnt have anything to do with them..yea and cows can fly he thought .
i should be so lucky .
of course his final option would be just to cut and run , but to where ?
life on the run didnt exactly appeal to himno , the best action would be to insulate himself from what was going on and then lie low for as long as necessary .
his mind twisted and turned .
he was tempted to call frank even drive up there but he knew either could be a mistake .
patience was his only friend just now .
no matter what one decision was made , both jennings and avi had to go and he would have to do it himself .
outside of avi nothing could tie him to the smuggling business at that end and with jennings out of the way nothing tied him to any weapons theft .
having come to a conclusion his stomach settled down and he could focus more on the details of the jobs at hand .
perhaps a light lunch and a good bottle of wine would settle his nerves .
he stood up , straightened his immaculate suit and , waiving nonchalantly to a couple of acquaintances at the bar , strolled into the dining room as though he hadnt a care in the world .
it was exactly a week since the attack on clive barracks .
paddy ohara could feel the blood pounding in his ears .
his legs werent sore yet and he was still nowhere near the wall although he knew it was coming .
he was jogging his normal route .
most of the guys jogged on the base using either the track or the playing fields .
he just got bored silly going round and round and much preferred jogging down by the river and the canal .
there was always something to see down therethe colorful canal boatsthe river itself with the huge willows at the waters edge .
first thing in the morning , even in the winter , with your breath following you like an old steam train , it was a pleasure providing you were dressed properly .
he simply had to get out every day for a while .
in a couple of weeks , in the new year , even older ncos like him were going to have to go over the obstacle course and hed better be in shape otherwise he was going to have a heart attack .
this time of the morning it was barely light .
probably because of the time of year , coupled with it being close to christmas , there werent many people out either .
in fact he hadnt seen anyone for quite a while .
he could hear footsteps behind him , somebody younger , faster catching him up .
a joggerno , more of a runner went past him .
couldnt tell if it was a man or a woman , dressed in black , with a black hoody , moving quickly and effortlessly where he was starting to labor a little .
he offered a good morning as the runner went by but got no response which was unusual for this part of the world .
he turned down towards the canal , his favorite part of the run .
this was a little easier now , slightly downhill then leveling off along the old towpath , a line of bare , winter trees to his left the canal on his right , vestiges of ice rimming the banks .
he was running a little easier nowmust have got his second wind .
he ran by a line of canal boats all tucked up for the winter .
he could see the locks several hundred yards ahead .
this is where he could cross the canal and jog down the other side .
a shape stepped out of the trees about fifty yards in front of him and just stood in the middle of the tow path as though waiting for him to arrive .
it looked like the runner that had passed him earlier .
as he moved over to one side in order to pass , the runner in black moved over as if to block him .
he slowed down to almost a walk as he approached .
the runners foot and leg were a blur .
it was so fast he almost didnt see it happening .
the foot struck him just below the heart .
it was crushing .
his heart almost stopped .
he couldnt breathe .
he didnt feel the ground as he crashed down neither did he feel the gravel of the path as the runner dragged him to the edge of the canal .
he felt the cold water close over him as he slipped under the surface .
his whole chest was numbhe couldnt feel anything .
there was no sensation .
he didnt feel himself bump against the hull of one of the colorful canal boats.he no longer felt anything .
tony took a table in the dining room sitting with his back to the wall facing the entrance.old habits .
he nodded to the smartly dressed gentleman , dining alone , a couple of tables further down the wall .
he failed to notice that the gentleman had an excellent view of the lounge area and bar and particularly the area where tony had been sitting although he must have had the choice of far nicer tables .
after having sampled the excellent sancerre brought to his table and whilst waiting for the soup he had ordered the mobile in his left jacket pocket vibrated .
yes ?
he answered .
its frank , the voice in his ear replied .
you following protocol ?
he asked tersely .
dont worry tony , im calling from a call box .
just as well , said tony , what do you want im just having lunch ?
frank told him that his order was ready and that he would be willing to deliver it the following monday dec 23rd .
it was agreed to deliver the order to the brixton warehouse between three and four in the afternoon as tony wanted to be there himself and the order was c.o.d .
when tony rang off he didnt notice the other gentleman check his watch .
the commander , george , jennie and dave rowden were meeting on saturday evening but this time in the comfort of georges home in eaton bishop rather than the cramped quarters of the bath st. police station .
this was at the request of the commander rather than georges preference as he had wanted to see the weapons in the museum particularly the blow guns , darts and poison .
they were sitting round the table in the museum , notes and drinks in front of them .
i could get used to this , said the commander , much more civilized than im used to he smiled at jennie as though he knew something that she didnt .
well , he said lots of activity in the last few days .
thanks to georges team we now have the names of all the participants in the tern hill job .
we also have confirmation that the whole thing was organized by ohara .
im not sure i want to know exactly how the information was acquired and , quite frankly , just between the four of us im not sure i really give a shit..enough that we have it for now .
weve also intercepted a call from jennings to tony wei concerning some delivery to his brixton warehouse on monday .
now its very much a question of timing and developing a link between the whole bunch of themproviding of course there is a link , although i find it hard to believe in coincidences .
so what are you suggesting ?
asked david .
the commander looked up , we have to assume that jennings and wei are up to no good .
under the counter terrorist act we have sufficient suspicion to justify warrants for the arrest of both of them plus warrants for search and seizure of the warehouse , jennings shop , both their homes and all their vehicles .
we know theyre meeting on monday so thats when well take them .
although we dont have much time well coordinate with the west yorkshire police and take down avis entire group plus the illegals .
at the same time we can take down ohara .
the commander took a sip of his drink and looked over at george .
george i assume your people have located all the irishmen ?
yes sir , george responded out of habit , we have eyes constantly on all of them .
i would have thought some of them might have made a run for it by now..at least get out of the way for a while canada or the usa , they must be feeling pretty confident !
each of the four sat , quietly lost in their own thoughts , considering their potential part in what the commander was proposing .
fair bit of coordination required here , mused david , the separate groups will have to be taken down simultaneously .
we cant afford any communication between them or we run the risk of them running .
there are some unknowns too .
we dont know how many villains were dealing with in brixton so wed have to be prepared for the worst .
i dont know about leeds or ireland .
the easiest part seems to be taking down ohara .
the commander chipped in .
youre absolutely right major , however we do know what were dealing with in leeds and im confident the west yorkshire police can deal with them .
i agree with the ohara part..the mps can take him down easily .
the problem is in london and ireland .
frankly , george , i wish i could use your people in ireland but its out of the question .
at least its a known quantity.just the six of them .
actually just five sir , said george one of them had a bit of an accident im sorry to report .
exactly why we cant use your people for this , george , said the commander , once we start , some of this is bound to leak out and become public knowledge , particularly the london element .
we will have to be able to withstand a certain amount of public scrutiny although not too much as the official secrets act will be invoked plus d notices will be thrown at the newspapers .
the problem will be mr. joe public .
the biggest unknown is going to be in brixton.theres no telling how many we will be dealing with at the warehouse and of course we certainly dont know if all weis employees are villains .
the odds are that theyre not .
the last thing we need is some innocent to get caught up in it !
ok , heres how i propose we go about this .
the commander stood up and started to walk about the room lost in thought .
david i want you take responsibility for tony wei .
youll use the sas counter terrorism team in north london , there are eight of them stationed there just for this purpose .
youll also have to coordinate with the met.ill give you a contact name of someone high enough up the ladder that you wont have any problems .
however its of paramount importance that the sas set up a command and control center immediately in brixton to try and determine exactly what were going up against .
ive also had contact with some of the brass at clive barracks , said david , it was part of the initial investigation into ohara .
id recommend we ignore the co there hes a real colonel blimp , just go with the officer commanding the military police .
he can do it nice and quiet like .
that works for me , said the commander , make sure ohara is arrested at exactly 1500 hours on mondayno later !
georgeas far as the irish side is concerned its not that difficult .
i once met the chief constable of the royal ulster constabulary at an extended training course at the police college in bramshill so i have the contact .
im going to talk to him as soon as i can find him , simply have your people hand off to him and his people .
just make sure that your guys keep a low profile..out of sight altogether would be the best thing , he added smiling , as soon as i have it set up have jimmy orourke call himill give you the number .
jennie who had been silent up to now said , commander , none of this cloak and dagger stuff has anything to do with me however i do have two murders on my plate just now.one of them right on my patch in hereford .
i presume you have no objection to our interviewing tony wei once you have him in custody ?
actually that might be a good thing , answered the commander , added pressure can do nothing but help .
as soon as we have him in his new home well be in touch .
you and david should do the interview .
george..if you dont mind id like to get on the phone and get the wheels in motion .
once thats done , if youve no objection , ill have the chopper pick me up here and nip me back to london .
no problem commander , said george , tell the pilot to pick you up in the paddock to the south of the house .
theres plenty of room and ill have mr. iredale move the horses into the barn .
wellthats the most activity weve had in the last ten days , said george .
the clatter of the helicopter , returning the commander to london , had disappeared behind the trees and david had left for london to coordinate that end of the operation .
they were sitting in the kitchen at the large pine table .
youre right about that , said jennie , but were really no further ahead concerning harry and peter brenner , hopefully theres some sort of connection .
id like to leave everything until after christmas if thats possible .
by the time they get tony wei locked up itll be christmas eve .
theoretically i have the week off starting now but id like to do the interview next friday if that works for everyone , just means ill have to drive up to london which is a bit of a pain .
you going to stay here over christmas ?
asked george .
you mean all week ?
replied jennie teasing .
darn right , replied george , no point in running backwards and forwards all week is there ?
typical male logic , said jennie , sure there isnt another reason ?
okaythe truth is id like you to be here for the week and i dont care who knows it .
itll make mrs. iredale happy too , he said laughing .
id love to..thanks for asking , she replied laughing , but theres a couple of conditions .
i dont want to be treated as lady of the manor and i want to be involved in the household stuff .that includes cooking the christmas dinner .
just have to make sure mrs. iredale doesnt think im putting her out of a job .
do we know whos coming for christmas yet ?
good news there jen , i heard from robbie .
hell be here by christmas eve , going to stay at least a weeknot just a holiday we have a fair bit of business to discuss too .
apparently he had a hell of a job convincing paan that he would be okay on his own .
theres also a bit of a turn up for the book..gema mason is coming together with wendy .
i dont know how dick feels about that , he might not even know .
just hope there isnt any unpleasantness .
anyway that makes ten including the iredales .
chapter 27 operation icarus the commander and david rowden were sitting in the communication center on gower street in london .
jennings hadnt even left for london yet so there was plenty of time .
you know this is too bloody complicated , said the commander , too much going on at once .
the lynch pin to the whole thing is ohara .
if he twigs , everybody will disappear on us the irish , the chinaman with jennings , avi up in leeds plus the illegals..theyll all dive underground , wed be screwed !
lets pick up ohara now , that way we can isolate him and obviate any risk , call the mps now , dave , and lets lock the bastard up .
david dialed the direct line to the lieutenant he had met up at clive barracks .
after a terse , rather one sided conversation , he hung up and turned to the commander .
bit of a problem up there sir , they dont have eyes on ohara , in fact he hasnt been seen for a couple of days .
hes actually awol never mind everything else .
youve got to be kidding me , replied the commander , what the bloody hell is going on ?
tell them to keep looking but keep it quiet until we give them the go ahead for an all out search .
he looked at the wall clock , jennings should be leaving soon .
i might as well call the ruc now and get the irish mob picked up.should bring them all up to london , puts the pressure on .
soon as ive done that well drive over to the command and control center and get a closer look at the brixton operation .
surely wed have known if ohara had done a runnerwhat the fuck is happening here ?
the command and control center was , in fact , a completely nondescript fifty three foot trailer parked several blocks from the warehouse .
the interior comprised of a communication center , a toilet , small galley and four berths .
when the commander and david arrived communications was manned by an sas captain and one trooper .
lines were open with the west yorks police , the royal ulster constabulary and the military police in clive barracks .
after introductions had been made the commander asked for an update .
the sas captain , sitting in a swivel chair in front of a console of screens and phones , turned to him .
theres still no sign of ohara , which is of some concern , but we cant let it influence us .
jennings is on the move now and should arrive in about ninety minutes .
the police , in yorkshire and ireland , are all in place and are just waiting for the go ahead from us .
what about the warehouse ?
its not that bad commander , said the captain , only the one floor , three entrancestwo in the front , one of which is an overhead dock door , and one in the rear which is a man door .
all the windows are barred .
the operation should be pretty straight forward although , of course , you never really know .
were an eight man team plus the two of us in here .
therell be two on the back door , two on the main entrance in the front and two on the dock doors .
we also have snipers covering the front and the back .
as soon as jennings gets out of the van we give the go ahead to yorkshire and ireland .
we go in simultaneously as soon as jennings has unloaded .
the met is prepared to handle road blocks if necessary and will block all traffic as soon as we go in .
there are only two people in the building , tony wei plus the driver that does the run to amsterdam .
an added bonus is that their truck is parked outside on the street , any requests or suggestions commander ?
just keep them all alive if possibleanything to add major ?
turning towards david .
once theyre in custody where are we taking them ?
asked david .
i suggest that jennings and the driver be taken to the jail here in brixtonseparate cellsno communication whatsoever .
tony wei goes to a safe house .
you and i will take him , that ok with you david ?
works for me commander let them all stew over christmas .
plowright and myself plan to come up to town on friday to interview wei , of course our prime interest is downer and brenner , anything else will be dependent on this afternoon i would think .
they settled down to wait , periodically checking with the teams and the two snipers on the roofs , having excellent views of the streets .
two of the screens on the console in front of the captain glowed in the indirect lighting showed the front and the back of the building .
one of the phones rang jolting them into alertness .
jennings is about ten minutes out , said the captain tersely .
he keyed his mike button , ten minutes gentlemenwait until my commandsnipers you are not green until my command..we want them alive .
traffic was light on this side street off the brixton road .
it was less than ten minutes before the black van pulled in off the main road , stopped and backed up to the dock .
the sas captain keyed his mike .
only one man in the van .
confirm as frank jennings , let him unload.wait for my command .
he picked up one phone receiver on which was conferenced the west yorks police , the royal ulster constabulary and the london met .
yorkshire and ireland you have a go .
london wait for the breaching blast before you block off the streetdont want to tip anyone off at this stage of the game .
jennings got out of the van , looked up and down the street and rang the bell by the side of the dock door .
the door rose electrically .
it was impossible to see inside from the camera placed across the street .
jennings started to unload boxes that seemed to be heavy for their size , passing them to someone inside the building .
there were ten cardboard boxes of average size followed by four large wooden crates .
jennings closed the rear doors to the van , locked everything up and jumped up onto the dock without a word .
the overhead door closed silently .
blue team you are good to go , said the captain quietly into his throat mike .
three men quickly and simultaneously approached the three doors , placed breaching charges against each and stood off well to the sides with their partners .
with a resounding crash all three were detonated together .
flashbangs were heaved through the resulting entrances immediately followed by the three teams of sas troopers .
in the distance the sirens as the london police blocked off the side street .
for a number of seconds it was quiet , the dust settling around the doors , a team of riot police keeping both traffic and a few pedestrians away from the immediate scene .
from deep inside the building the muffled sound of three shots quickly followed by the quick chatter of an mp5 followed by quiet .
building clear , came over the speaker , two in custody and one down.no rush hes dead !
roger that , replied the captain , two men on each doorway immediately , no one in unless authorized by myself .
were coming in now..three of us .
the commander , david and the captain jogged across the street and , climbing over the rubble of the destroyed door , entered the building .
the lobby was cloudy with dust from the explosion .
the three of them walked out into the warehouse .
the scene was like a war zone , thick dust everywhere , yellow in the light of the fluorescents high in the roof , three teams of two men each in black coveralls and balaclavas standing guard at the entrances .
david recognized the coppery smell of cordite and blood in the air .
one of the men approached the captain and , glancing at the commander and david , said , one of the bad guys made a run for the rear door .
he opened fire with a handgun , we had no choice but to take him out .
the commander walked down the warehouse to the body , lying in a pool of blood , spread eagled on the concrete floor and took a good look at him .
must be the driver , he said that mp5 made a mess of him .
he walked back to the group at the front of the warehouse just inside the dock door .
two men were kneeling on the concrete floor hands tied behind them with plastic ties .
tony wei and frank jennings.youve both been naughty boys.the question is.how naughty.so what have we got here ?
said the commander , nodding at the pile of boxes and crates .
david took out his pocket knife and sliced open one of the cardboard boxes .
no wonder they looked heavy , he said .
he pulled off the cardboard box to reveal a military looked ammunition box .
he sliced open a few more .
all the samelooks like two calibersabout 5000 rounds in total id estimate .
taking a wrecking bar from the bench by the door he opened up the four crates .
oh boy.take a look at this commander looking down into the crates they saw four automatic weapons .
looks like two light machine guns and two mp5s .
theyre all brand new..still in their packing grease .
the lmgs look like the new ones just issued .
give me one of the serial numbers david , asked the commander taking a folded sheet of paper out of his jacket pocket .
david lifted out one of the machine guns and reeled off the serial number .
the commander walked over to the two men kneeling on the floor .
these are some of the weapons stolen from clive barracks recently .
two irish regiment troopers were killed in that jobyou two boys have a real problem..fly that close to the sunicarus i believe .
later that evening back in gower street with george and jennie on the conference phone in the middle of the table , ok lets have a quick post mortem so as we are all up to date , said the commander .
firstly we have to commend everyone for a job well done .
it was as quiet and as unobtrusive as we could have it and no one got hurt..other than the chinamans drivercouldnt be helped .
all the irish have been picked up , are in transit to london and are awaiting her majestys pleasure .
avi and his group , plus the eight illegals , are all in custody .
we wont have any trouble figuring out avis involvement in this and the illegals will be deported quickly to their country of origin.interpol are working on that in amsterdam .
jennings is sitting in brixton prison and tony wei is in a safe house .
by the way we found twenty thousand quid in small bills in a briefcase in weis office..obviously payment for the guns .
the only wrinkle still left is that theres still no sign of ohara .
i suppose he could be long gone by now .
luckily we dont need him to tie everything together now although it would have been nice.well keep on looking though .
i think thats about it for now .
david and jennie are coming up to london next friday to interview tony weianybody anything to add ?
any objections to me coming up to london on friday as well ?
asked george over the phone , i might be of some help there .
its fine with me , said the commander , its still a counter terrorist affair and youre still a consultant although obviously jennie plowrights interest is the ongoing murder investigation .
i suppose now i only have one thing to add at this stage of the proceedings.merry christmas everyone ! !
chapter 28 time for presents it was like a multi layered christmas card thought jennie , both inside and out .
it had snowed overnight and was cold enough for it to remain fluffy and unmarred by a partial thaw .
it lay on the pine trees and fields like a great white , fluffy blanket .
the paddock behind the house was stained by the pile of hay put out by mr. iredale and surrounded by the hoof prints of the horses , a cloud of steam above each horse like a personal aura .
she stood in the tall , mullioned study window looking out across the paddock towards the woods in the distance , the fire crackling behind her in the hearth .
she could see robbie and george coming down the path out of the woods together with the two labs like two black blobs in the snow .
the two men had their shotguns under their arms although it looked as though theyd had no luck .
it was obvious that now the dogs were playing rather than working , chasing each other and rolling in the snow .
it all seemed so far away from what she did for a living.another world .
her world seemed grimy compared to this place , a world of crime , a world that often seemed ugly by comparison .
this place was like an island.a refugea cave almost .
george stopped at the paddock railing and waited for the horses to trot over as he knew they would , each knowing that he had carrots in his pocket , as he always had .
he treated each one individually then turned towards the house , disappearing round the corner , heading for the back and the mud room .
she turned back into the large room feeling at home and comfortable amongst the chintz covered couches and gleaming antique furniture .
the crash of a door in the back of the house brought her out of her reverie , the pounding of canine feet in the long hallway followed by the eruption of the two dogs into the study .
they rushed over to say hello and then collapsed in front of the roaring fire..measured strides down the hallway and the two men walked into the room .
she had met robbie for the first time just last night .
they had taken to each other immediately .
he was a huge man , in his forties now but still lean and hard .
hed shaved off his beard and was deeply tanned from the brunei sun .
he made george appear small yet george himself was well over six feet .
the two of them were obviously more than just comfortable in each others presence .
it was as if each could hear the other think most certainly the result of a twenty five year relationship many of those years protecting the others six .
she smiled at the thought .
what are you laughing at ?
asked george .
i was just thinking about you two looking after each other for so long , youre like an old married couple , she said laughing out loud .
aye well someone had to keep an eye on him , rumbled robbie , his glasgow accent just as strong as it ever was , hed of been dead years ago as might we allwe looked out for each other.that was the nature of the team .
he gazed quietly into the flames of the fire , but who was looking out for harry and peter ?
he asked almost to himself , what the hell is going on here ?
enough of this , said george , its christmas , theres snow on the ground and gifts under the tree , well get back to the real world on friday.whos drinking what ?
george poured all three large single malts .
i hope thats bowmore , said robbie .
it is , replied george , would i dare pour you anything else ?
he replied laughing .
jennie had moved over to the stereo and now the soaring sounds of the guildford choir filled the room with a traditional carol .
now it even sounds like christmas , she said .
the three of them sat around the crackling fire , cut crystal in hand , listening to the music , one of the dogs opened one eye checking that all was well in doggie world , sighed and went back to sleep .
george stood up , i have to go talk to the iredales about some horsey stuff and the arrangements for tomorrow , keep each other company for awhile.just help yourself to drinks .
he walked out of the room the dogs following .
bloody dogs follow him everywhere , said robbie smiling .
jennie just sat contentedly watching the flames flicker .
theres happiness in the house , said robbie , first time in years , weve you to thank for that .
i know you havent known each other for too long but its obvious to everyone that you belong together .
first thing mrs. iredale said to me when i saw her yesterday.and she should know .
jennie just sat quietly gazing into the fire .
for me it was love at first sight , she said , i actually came to interview him over the downer affair .
now i come to think about it i met the dogs first and then george , laughing , then mrs. iredale .
we have to keep an eye on him you know , said robbie serious now , i know him better than anyone , we go back over twenty five years .
he wont take this thing with harry and peter lying down you know .
he wont say anything .
hell respect the fact that its your job and hell help you in it but in the back of his mind will be his own idea of punishment and that will not involve languishing in some cell.no matter for how long .
we can not lose sight of the fact that he employs the equivalent of a full sas squadron , over sixty five men who all trained not too far from here .
he looks after them , provides them with benefits .
many of them would not know what to do , you know , after retirement .
life after special forces can be hard for many of themme included .
you get used to the camaraderiethe living on the edge .
i think what im trying to say is that they would do anything for him..and i mean anything .
hes done extremely well for himself and can afford just about anything he wants .
the business is still growing and will only get more profitable so money will never be an issue .
we just have to be vigilant .
i wouldnt want him getting into trouble.and of course he has you now .
just a word to the wise ... george came back into the roomdogs in tow .
so what have you guys been talking about behind my back ?
he asked happiness in his voice .
he didnt wait for a reply , well everything is organized for tomorrow , mrs. iredale has it all under control although you would think she was cooking for thirty .
the bloody turkey only just fits in the aga and theres only ten of us !
whos the ten then ?
asked robbie .
well theres we three plus dickie , gema and wendy , david , his girlfriend pauline and the iredales .
i havent seen gema in a hell of a long time and ive never met the daughter , said robbie .
ive spoken to her a few times when i was helping her out on her trip with wendy .
she seems to have made quite the friend in paan.thats the border scout i was telling you about jennie..he sends her stuff from time to time .
she must have a museum like yours george , he said jokingly .
should be interesting to see the chemistry between her and dickie mason , said jennie , my information is that they havent lived together for quite some time .
he has a housekeeper , a mrs. trenholme , and gema herself lives in the flat over the old barn .
whats curious is that she never lets anyone in there.whole thing is bloody weird !
im surprised theyre coming .
long as theyre nice to each other , said george laughingly , dont want anyone buggering up our christmas dinner !
everyone should show up around lunchtime and dinner should be around four i think .
the day was drawing to a close .
mrs. iredale came in , closed the drapes and made arrangements for dinner that evening .
i see some gifts have mysteriously appeared under the tree , said george , one of them is bloody huge !
i think it would be a good idea if we opened them this evening that way tomorrow is completely clear for our guests , what do you think ?
fine by me , said jennie , what about the iredales ?
i always look after them , said george , i give them a christmas bonus plus a case of wine which sees them through the year .
good bonus this year too , theyre on the company payroll of course .
they gathered round the tree , all eighteen feet of it , standing not quite touching the ceiling far above .
i brought gifts for you both , said robbie , but i had to have mrs. iredale wrap them for me last night .
theyre in all those packages in the corner .
after theyd finished ripping all the paper off like children , spread out on the floor in front of them was an entire collection of kayan artifacts .
theyre for the museum except for that really colorful prayer matthats for jennie , said robbie feeling a little self conscious .
ive had them all dated , theyre all pretty old not one item is less than two hundred years old for a fact .
theyre magnificent , said george , well need a bigger room at this rate .
im afraid our gift is rather small by comparison but i know youll like it .
he passed robbie a small package .
inside was a leather case containing a custom sgian dubh .
och man its beautiful , said robbie .
i ordered the bloody thing almost a year ago and it only turned up the other day .
i was getting a bit panicky , said george , just be careful with it..its the real thing and has a terrific edge on it .
ill be wearing it tomorrow , said robbie full dress tomorrowits christmas day .
that really big box is for you george , said jennie , took two of us to get it in here .
george and robbie manhandled the carton out into the middle of the floor .
george ripped the paper off .
a trap machine !
what a wonderful idea .
theres a thousand clay pigeons hidden in the garage that go with it , said jennie .
its radio controlled and will throw timed doubles .
we can set it up in the west fielditll be safe there.terrific ! !
george was obviously thrilled with the gift .
itll go wonderfully with my gift to you , he said passing her a long box wrapped in christmas paper .
careful its quite heavy .
perhaps we should go in the study to open itbetter to use the table .
in the study she tore off the paper .
lying on the table a long , leather , hand tooled case with an engraved brass plaque on the outside jennie plowright in script .
inside , the shotgun with the four sets of barrels lay gleaming in the green felt compartments .
stitched into the inside of the lid the leather tab proclaiming to the world..purdey .
gun and rifle makers under the royal crests .
its beautiful george but how can i possibly accept it .
i know what its worth.probably more than i make in a year .
dinna worry yoursel about it , said robbie , what else is he going to do with his money anywayenjoy lassieits magnificent.the sultan himself would be impressed .
ye can try it out on that machine you bought for him .
later that evening , completely relaxed in the study , jennie lying on the couch , her head in georges lap , robbie slouching in an armchair by the side of the fire all enjoying that companionable silence some get to enjoythe silence only broken by the crackling of the log fire and the occasional whimper from one of the dogs as it dreamed about rabbits , or whatever it is that dogs dream about .
the shrilling of a phone in another room intruded .
bugger it , said george , either mrs. iredale will get it or it will go to voice mail .
a tapping on the door and mrs. iredales entrance indicated he was going to have to get up .
its for miss jennie , she said , its inspector rowden..he says its urgent .
jennie got up and picked up the phone on the side table .
she listened for a few minutes without saying anything and then , after agreeing to see david and his girlfriend the following day for dinner , hung up .
she sat for a few minutes , gazing into the fire thinking .
they found ohara , she said , hes dead !
they found him in the canal in market drayton .
the military police called the commander who called david .
they suspect foul play , it looks as though hed been jogging and somebody jumped him .
theres a bit of a jurisdictional fight going on , the fact that its christmas eve doesnt exactly help either .
bloody hell , said george , thats a turn up for the book .
apparently hes been dead for a few days by the condition of the body , said jennie , he was last seen on saturday and the mps couldnt find him on monday so its a good guess he was killed on sunday .
george got up , poked the fire and put on another log .
we had everyone under surveillance..even the irishmen .
so it cant be anyone weve had our eyes on .
this puts an entirely different perspective on things , said jennie , we thought we had everyone wrapped up and we obviously dontwere missing something .
for securitys sake we have people here tomorrow who have nothing to do with the investigation .
i think we should not be discussing the thing at all tomorrowill make a point of talking to davidyou agree with that ?
i agree , said george , anyway its christmas day and we should just enjoy it .
im going to take the dogs out for a pee robbie why dont you come with me .
they walked out into the paddock , the bright moonlight lighting the way , the dogs tearing around , glad to be out .
what do you think robbie ?
asked george his breath curling away into the night .
aye theres something not right here .
three people dead now that we personally know .
back of my head is getting itchy .
mine too.im not comfortable with this at allput it down to my intuition , said george .
aye laddiewell its got us out of trouble before lets not ignore it now , rumbled the scotsman , what are you thinking ?
dunno yetill think of something though .
chapter 29 its christmas day christmas day dawned crisp and clear , another hallmark day jennie thought as she luxuriated under the down comforter , the weak sun streaming through the window .
she rolled over .
george had gone , the bed cool , hed been gone for a while .
she looked at the clock on the bedside tablenine oclock already , shed better get going.lots to do today .
she showered and dressed in a tweed skirt complemented by an emerald green silk blouse that accented her auburn hair and green eyes .
i look like the bloody lady of the manor she thought eyeing herself in the full length mirror maybe i should wear something else .
hey.you look great this morning .
merry christmas darling , george was standing in the doorway leaning on the frame .
i think i should have come up while you were still in the shower .
they went down to breakfastnot the pine table in the kitchen this morning .
mrs. iredale had a family tradition for christmas morning , breakfast in the formal dining room , eggs benedict , champagne and orange juice .
george always insisted that it include both mr. and mrs.iredale .
robbie had not come down yet but they could hear his footsteps as he came down the main staircase .
merry christmas , he boomed as he stepped into the room .
they gasped .
robbie , all six foot four of him , was dressed in his traditional highland dress .
his eighteen yard kilt swayed as he strode across the room giving jennie a christmas kiss .
he shook georges hand .
what do you think ye wee sassenach ?
he said .
you look magnificent , said george , all you need is a claymore and youd be the perfect warrior .
who needs a claymore when ive got my new sgian dubh , proudly pointing to the knife tucked into the top of his tartan sock .
mrs. iredale came in pushing a trolley loaded with eggs , back bacon , a tureen of hollandaise sauce followed by mr.iredale carrying a magnum of champagne and a jug of fresh orange juice .
you and terry sit down , said george , i do the serving this morning .
the elderly couple sat down and george proceeded to serve everyone .
robbie followed him around pouring the champagne and orange juice .
george served himself last and sat down .
he picked up his glass and offered a toast merry christmas everyone .
over coffee george said , i think i should explain something for the benefit of robbie and jennie , smiling over at the iredales .
for some inexplicable reason mr. and mrs. iredale insist on being called mr. and mrs. iredale.i , for one , have given up arguing .
their names are actually terry and margaret .
he looked up at them quizzically , margaret started to blush .
terry here is actually sergeant major terence iredale retired of the parachute regiment and one of the originals .
for your benefit jennie the originals are the original members of the sas that fought with stirling in north africa during the last war..hes a hard man but loves horses , he added laughing .
they live in the lodge down by the gate and have done since i bought the place .
i trust them both implicitly .
well i never.lifes full of surprises , said robbie , its an honor to meet you sergeant major , standing up and shaking his hand .
one night we should get together , over a wee dram , and swap lies .
the first to arrive was david and his girlfriend pauline , theyd been staying at the green dragon in hereford .
jennie went out of her way to make pauline feel at home but only after having spoken to david to ensure that shop did not crop up during conversation .
they were gathered together in the museum trying to re arrange things to make room for robbies substantial addition when dickie mason arrived.alone .
he was showed in by mrs. iredale .
dickiemerry christmas.great to see you , said george .
nice to see you people too , said dick , thanks for inviting me .
robbie you look absolutely sensational in a kilt , that the style in brunei these days ?
he said laughingly .
gema and wendy will be along soon i expect , theyll be in their own car .
why dont we go into the study and crack a nice bottle of sherry whilst we wait for them ?
suggested george giving jennie a questioning look .
by now the spicy smell of christmas was pervading the house .
roast turkey , a separate pan of walnut stuffing , bread pudding .
the vegetables would only go on once the turkey was almost cooked , the kitchen a hive of activity .
george had just poured the sherry when gemas green jag pulled up in front of the house .
mother and daughter walked into the study .
robbie eyed the two from where he was standing in front of the fire .
it was years since he had seen gema and wendy hed never actually met .
gema seemed to have hardly changed at all .
she was beautiful twenty years ago and she was still beautiful .
a few lines about the eyes but her hair was still lustrous although now it was cut short .
her figure looked the same as it had all those years ago.youthful and hard but it was wendy that caught him aback .
she was tall , as tall as her father .
in her heels she had to be well over six feet towering over her mother .
her hair was short and auburn in contrast to her mothers , her skin a honey color blushed by the sun .
her most startling feature was her eyes .
they were dickies eyesa startling blue yet almond shaped like her mothers .
she was dressed in a cheomsam , that high collared , oriental dress with a slit up the side .
it was a peacock blue accenting her eyes and showing off her long , tanned legs .
ignoring her father she walked over to him .
you must be robbie mcelroy , im wendy mason ive heard so much about you .
she extended her hand .
he took her hand to shake it and immediately felt not the hand of a student at cambridge but something else .
he looked down and was surprised to see tiny intricate tattoos on the backs of the fingers .
i am indeed , he rumbled , im so pleased to meet you at last .
ive known your mother for over twenty years now.your father for longer than that .
with that gema came over .
he had to lean right over to kiss her on the cheek .
long time no see gem , he said quietly , paan says hi , daughter looks like a chip off the old block.tall too .
yes but which block ?
gema whispered and turned away to be introduced to david and pauline .
the house was quiet now save for the muffled ticking of the old clock on the landing .
jennie lay in bed looking at the shadows on the ceiling cast by the bedside lamp , george by her side .
that was one of the nicest and yet the weirdest christmas dinners of my life , she said .
i know exactly what you mean , jen .
im not quite sure why all the masons came .
i dont think one word passed between dickie and gema all day or with wendy for that matter..its the strangest arrangement .
did you get to talk to wendy at all ?
no not really , she replied , gema and wendy avoided me like the plague .
im sure its because gema knows im a copper , food for thought there though .
david got to talk to wendy quite a lot though .
he gave her some story about being a business consultant or something , shes quite the young woman apparently .
hows that ?
asked george sleepily .
david described her as being her mothers daughter .
apparently shes been to indonesia several times recently hence the tan .
she has nothing to do with her father and is deeply into her heritage.or rather her mothers heritage .
she considers herself kayan , have you seen her hands ?
david says shes taking a bit of time off from cambridge .
when shes in hereford , which is often , she stays in the flat with her mother never with dickie .
she also works out with her mother and apparently goes to the same dojodoing that indonesian martial arts thing .
its called silat , said george running his hand over the flat of her stomach .
have you noticed her eyes ?
she said , trying to ignore the effect georges hand was having on her .
how could you miss them..shes a stunning looking young woman .
yes but theyre cold .
i got the impression she was calculating all the time .
both her and gema seemed to spend a lot of time talking with robbie .
did you notice how quiet they both were when we went into the museum .
they make a strange couple thats for sure .
georges hand had moved up to her breast .
she felt her nipple harden and her breath quickened .
youre not wearing a tee shirt , he whispered .
i dont wear them to bed any more , she murmured turning towards him , feeling him against her stomach.giving in to the sensation .
youre definitely a keeper , said robbie , that was a great breakfast .
im surprised i had room for anything after yesterday .
jennie had insisted that mr. and mrs. iredale sleep in this morning and had undertaken to cook breakfast for them all .
not bad george..shes beautiful , can cook and can fix tickets when you get nicked for speeding , what more could a man possibly want ?
they laughed together in the warmth of the kitchen .
robbie..i have a couple of things i need to talk to mr. iredale about .
im going to walk down to the lodge , give the dogs a bit of air too , why dont you come with me .
it was a grey day outside as they walked together down the long laneway to the stone house at the entrance to the estate .
weathers threatening , said george , hope it doesnt get too bad , we have to drive up to london tomorrow .
mrs. iredale let them in , she was already wearing a coat .
ill go up to the house and help miss jennie clean up , she said , leave you men together .
they sat around the kitchen table fresh mugs of tea in their hands .
george started the conversation .
theres something weird going on .
i dont know what it is but theres something in the air..i just feel it .
the authorities are looking for some sort of a connection between the killings , including harry and peter and the affair at clive barracks .
they might well be right but im not comfortable .
the icing on the cake was ohara .
when he was offed we had all the players under surveillance so theres someone weve missed .
id rather be safe than sorry , terry.try and get jimmy orourke on the phone .
robbie was surprised when mr. iredale dialed the number from memory .
he looked at george questioningly .
ok robbieterrys a bit more than just the handyman but the less people know the better.dont you agree ?
sly bastard , was robbies only response .
terry handed the phone to george .
jimmy.merry christmassorry to get you up early on boxing day but somethings come up .
i need five men , yourself plus four more .
i need them here in hereford quick as you can .
i dont know for how long could be a month or so..no way of telling really .
all five need permits to carry .
four will be doing a guard duty on the estate and i want you personally to babysit someone for me .
its a woman.shes a copper and very smart .
i dont want her out of your sight but i dont want her to know youre even there .
ill fill her in about the other four but the less she knows about you the better .
ill make reservations for you at the green dragon .
as soon as youre all here youll move into terrys cottage and use that as a command center .
everything you might need will be here by the time you arrive , small arms , communications , camo geartwo kinds as we have snow on the ground here .
ill fill you all in after youve all made yourself at home here .
im going up to london for the day tomorrow but should be back by friday .
robbie mcelroy will be second in command as long as he is here .
any questions jim ?
no sticky , should have everyone there by the weekend , shouldnt be a problem at all .
probably have a line up of fellas wanting to come , anything else ?
no thats it for now jimmy.see you in a day or two .
he hung up the phone and sat there nursing his tea .
might be overkill but , like i said , better safe than sorry .
terry i want you to keep an eye out now until jimmy shows up .
check on the proximity alarms in the woods.make sure everythings on line.nobody in without checking with the house first .
they walked back to the house in silence each lost in his own thoughts .
i hope were going to do something about harry and peter , said robbie , but i dont want to run afoul of your good lady .
im with you on that robbiethey wouldnt expect anything less and neither would i.what we need is more intel .
back at the house george and robbie went back to the museum .
got to sort this lot out , said george , maybe start some sort of catalogue .
thanks to you my collection has almost doubled in size .
he was kneeling on the floor , twiddling the dial , unlocking the safe door .
reaching in he took out two handguns , his sig 9 mill and the browning high power which he passed to robbie .
you might want to keep that in your room while youre here .
he tucked the sig into his belt at his back , under his sweater .
sure got that itchy feeling .
later that day , the weak sun doing nothing to melt the snow , george suggested to jennie that they go for a little drive .
theres someone i want you to meet , he said , put your boots on and wear something warm .
taking the land rover they drove towards the village .
at a long stone wall , backed by a row of leafless oaks as old as time , he pulled over onto the snow covered verge , parked and got out .
they walked through the lych gate partly hidden by the trees and into the snowy yard .
what a magnificent old church , said jennie her breath curling up into the air .
its st. michaels and all angels , said george , it was built in the eleventh century .
that huge , stained glass window was installed in 1320 .
its so important that it was removed during the war and stored for safekeeping .
they were walking on what was obviously a pathway , snow covered now.. no sign of anyone having passed since the snowfall , the gravestones standing like dark , lonely sentinels against the bright snow .
they stopped in front of a white marble headstone .
judith allyson mclelland mudd 1950 1980 .
there was a bench , snow covered now , at right angles to the gravesite .
i came and sat on this bench just about every week for years.except for when i was away .
its important to me that you meet her , that you understand she was a major part of my life for a long time .
you would have liked each other .
in some ways you are alike , in most you are different .
after she was killed a part of me died but she never seemed to be far away .
she always seemed to be there , looking over my shoulder approving or disapprovingalmost like an alter conscience .
i told her about you quite some time ago .
i told her i would bring you to meet her if and when i thought the time was right .
the time is right .
i havent felt her presence for some time now .
its as though she feels im in good , safe hands and can now lie in peace .
it had started to snow lightly , the flakes settling on the shoulders of their jackets the silence only broken by the occasional call of a rook in the oaks .
jennie took his hand and turned to him , tears shining in her eyes .
thank you , she said , i was waiting for you to bring me here .
he put his arm around her and they stood there , in the snow , gazing at the headstone each lost in their own thoughts .
she looked up at george..tears were streaming down his face .
part 4 chapter 30 up to london town the light snow had persisted all night but they had committed to drive up to london to interview tony wei .
if they left a little later , giving the road crews time to clear the major highways , it would be nothing the land rover couldnt handle .
george was doing the driving with jennie sitting up front .
david and pauline were sitting in the back , the understanding being that they would drop off pauline at her home in north london and then continue on up to the safe house .
as predicted the land rover took the road conditions in its stride .
as they got closer to the city the conditions improved and the skies started to clear .
due to pauline being in the car it was impossible for them to enter into anything other than small talk .
they dropped her off in edgeware only about a twenty minute drive from their destination in barnet .
it was agreed that david would lead the interview with jennie jumping in when she felt it appropriate .
george would act as an observer although he was the only one who had actually met wei previously .
driving up the high road towards barnet george turned the radio off .
you know no one has convinced me that there is a connection between the raid on tern hill and the killings of peter and harry .
that doesnt mean to say there isnt one but we cant lose sight of ohara getting killed whilst all our main players were under observation .
weve obviously either missed something or someone or there is no connection whatsoever which , i would agree , would be a hell of a coincidence .
i dont want you folk to lose sight of the fact that all three killed were part of an old group of mine , admittedly twenty years ago but it certainly is strange .
i need to let you know that , starting this weekend , ive brought in four minders to keep an eye on the estate .
theyll be staying with the iredales and will be there until this mess is cleared up .
dont worry..theyll be working within the law and staying within the confines of the property .
robbie feels the same way about this as i do and hell be staying on a few extra days before going back to brunei .
jennie turned towards him her arm over the back of the seat .
you worried there might be more george ?
the fact is , jen , we really dont know whats going on .
three people are dead , two killed by a poison that originates in borneo although it could be reproduced anywhere if you had the correct ingredients .
at this stage of the game id much rather be safe than sorry .
i also think we should be warning both dickie mason and colonel gurney of what has been happening although im sure they already know .
i would doubt though that theyve considered themselves at risk .
of course i could also be totally wrong and i hope i am .
on davids instructions george turned down friern barnet lane and drove past the north middlesex golf course .
he then turned into the driveway of a large detached house set back from the road .
nice home , said jennie , as they got out of the car stretching .
yeswe keep them until we think they might have been compromised then we sell them on the open market and buy another one , answered david .
there are certain criteria but thats what makes them attractive on the market .
im told we usually make a bob or two on the sale , he said laughing while ringing the bell .
who is it please ?
a pleasant female voice from the intercom speaker to the side of the door .
major rowden , detective sergeant plowright and sergeant mudd , answered david .
step back from the door please , the metallic voice from the speaker , after a few seconds the door clicked open on an electric lock and they stepped into the entrance hallway .
the door silently closed behind them and self locked with an audible set of clicks .
facing them across the hallway a matronly , middle aged woman , hair in a bun , sat behind a desk her hands conspicuously out of sight .
may i see your identification please ?
she asked politely , put them on the desk in front of me .
after inspecting the identity cards , georges having been provided by david , she pushed a bell push on the desk summoning a guard who entered from a door off to the side .
two of you are armed , she said smiling , jennie looked shocked .
technologys a wonderful thing , said the matron .
please leave your weapons with robert here..you can retrieve them when you leave .
jennie looked angrily at george who shrugged his shoulders .
ill leave it in the safe as soon as my itchy feeling disappears .
i knew about it , said david , and i agree with georgeits all too weird just now .
robert , the guard , led them to an oak door and ushered them into what must have been the drawing room originally .
the room was comfortably furnished although looking a little worn , the heavy drapes drawn even in the daytime .
the door closed behind them .
tony wei , sitting calmly in an armchair , did not rise or even move as they came into the room .
he sat impassively waiting for them to speak .
his eyebrows went up in surprise as he saw george but quickly reverted to his look of apparent boredom .
david introduced the three of them .
i already have had the pleasure of meeting george , he said , hes a good golfer as i recollect .
sergeant mudd to you wei , said george walking over to a chair against the wall and sitting down .
david and jennie sat down in arm chairs facing the asian .
jennie appraised the man .
he was outwardly calm , hed shaved that morning and looked clean and well turned out .
he was wearing a beige jumpsuit and slip ons.no belts or laces.all obviously government issue .
you being looked after ?
asked david .
tony smiled benignly .
other than being cut off so to speak , no radio , television or newspapers and the fact that the food is atrocious im being looked after..beats a cell i suppose .
well dont get used to the idea , said david , it wont last too long .
tony.if thats your real name which i doubt very muchlets look at where were at exactly .
im not sure exactly where to start as there is so much .
suffice it to say we have enough to put you away for several lifetimes .
it goes from second degree murder , you being involved in the acquisition of the guns from tern hill , through the smuggling of illegal immigrants , several of which will be proven to be associated with known terrorist groups , to your association with the chinese .
with all that youll be lucky to see the light of day again in this lifetime .
tony sat there seemingly unperturbed understanding immediately that he must have been under surveillance for a considerable period of time .
so what exactly is georges.excuse me.sergeant mudds involvement in this ?
he asked .
jennie jumped in .
our interest is the murders of harry downer and peter brenner .
never heard of them , tony quickly responded .
bullshit , george from the corner of the room .
you played golf with harry and i and soon after , harry was killed on the golf course .
you drove up north to see avi in leeds .
while you were there you played golf again , at moor allerton , and soon after the assistant pro there , peter brenner , was killed..again on the golf course .
of course i admit to playing golf on both courses but i had nothing to do with your killings .
why would i deny it anywayyou say you have enough to lock me up for several lifetimes anyway ?
said tony smirking .
its not our intention to lock you up , said david , that would be too easy .
wed be better to simply hand you over to the chinese .
well be expelling a couple of their so called trade people anyway so you can go with them .
i would think that your life expectancy would be pretty short under those conditions and they would make things pretty uncomfortable for you in the meantime after we leaked to them that you had been sharing information with us .
im a british citizen , said tony , you cant do that .
can the rhetoric , said david impatiently , were dealing with you under the terrorist act , frankly you could just disappear and no one would give a shit .
maybe we should just deport him back to viet nam , after all he entered the country as a refugee from there with a vietnamese passport , said george so quietly he was hardly heard .
with that he stood up , opened the door and walked out into the lobby closing the door behind him .
david and jennie looked at each other questioningly and continued with the polite interrogation .
after a few minutes george returned , i borrowed a camera , he said happily , its one of those new digital things that doesnt use film .
got ta get one.its terrific .
he walked over to where they were sitting .
tony stand up and place your hands flat on the table , he ordered .
with that he took several close up photos of the backs of tonys hands , the flash startling them , automatically illuminating the room .
after tony had sat down george fiddled around with the back of the little camera .
look at this , he said bloody amazing. got ta get one .
he showed them the little screen at the back of the camera .
see those are the pics i just took..no film .
he held up the camera so they could see .
he slowly forwarded each exposure so they could see them allso they could see the tattoos on the backs of tony weis fingers..faded with time.but still easily discernible with the help of the flash .
he looked at tony .
i knew you werent vietnamese the first time i met you , youre indonesian or malayyoure from sarawak..or borneo !
chapter 31 somebody hit me .
the barn was a warm , friendly place the air redolent with the smell of hay and horses .
terry had just brought them in for the night and were happily chomping on their evening feed .
terry , george , robbie and jimmy orourke sat , in the beat up old arm chairs in the tack room drinking , beers in hand , surrounded by bridles , halters and saddles the smell of saddle soap and liniment strong in the air .
everything ok jimmy ?
asked george .
everythings on line now , replied orourke , ive a rotating watch system in placetwo on two off .
the guys seem to be settled in at terrys .
i could do with another guy , george , as i cant keep a continuous eye on jennie on my own .
other than that everything is fine .
go ahead and bring someone else in , said george , makes sense when shes in hereford and not here .
shell be in hereford all this week as will david.lot easier when shes here !
robbie what are your plans ?
robbie stretched his long legs and took a pull of his beer .
i think i should stay here until next week.see the new year in here .
we have some business to discuss have to make some decisions concerning the active patrols i was telling you about .
fine with me rob , said george .
i have another question for you though , with that he told them about the interview in barnet with tony wei and specifically about the tattoos on the backs of his fingers .
what is really strange is that they are similar to the tattoos on gema and wendy..would be helpful if we knew the significance .
i could speak to paan if you like , said robbie laughing , we just managed to convince him that the phone is not some sort of evil spirit .
thats a great idea but i would prefer if you dont mention anything about either gema or wendy to him .
you know better than me that he seems to have some sort of relationship with them .
right now the less anyone knows the better..even if he is in brunei .
dickie was restless , he paced from room to room aimlessly , unable to settle .
he knew he was depressed and knew that a symptom of the medication he was taking was restlessness..that and a reduction in libido although he hadnt had the opportunity to put that to the test for quite some time .
he still dwelled on the christmas dinner at georges couldnt get out of his mind the sight of his daughter striding by him to say hello to robbie mcelroyignoring himcouldnt believe that , all the time they were there , neither gema or wendy said so much as a word to him .
he sat on the window seat gazing across the yard at the barn and gemas flat .
the jag wasnt there , in fact he hadnt seen her or wendy for a few days now .
nobody ever came to visit , except mrs. trenholme of course , but he couldnt exactly talk to her come to think of it who did he have to talk to ?
no one reallycertainly not his old army buddies .
his world seemed to be shrinking to the confines of the house .
he was scheduled to be going into work but hadnt bothered .
he needed a shave and a shower but couldnt be bothered .
he didnt seem to have any energy..everything was a struggle , there didnt seem to be much of a point to anything anymore .
he found himself in his bedroom looking into his full length dressing mirror .
he frowned at the man looking back at him .
he was developing more of a paunch and he was definitely getting a little thin on top .
his pale blue eyes seemed tired.he looked and felt beaten..he needed a shave .
he remembered that day on the beach with gema so many years ago .
he remembered her pulling his head down into her neck and teaching him to breath in her spirit.he remembered , later , teaching her to kiss .
his eyes filled with tears and he turned away .
without thinking he opened his closet .
how come it was so neat and tidy ?
he didnt remember doing that , must be mrs. trenholme .
boots and shoes , shined , neatly lined up on the floor , suits and jackets hanging on the rail , shirts and sweaters properly folded , in their pigeon holes .
he took down a suit bag , laid it on the bed and unzipped it .
inside the bag his dress blues , the dress uniform of the parachute regiment .
he slowly dressed in front of the mirror .
the dark blue pants with the wide red stripe were snug , even tight , the tunic tight around the middle but alright if he sucked in his gut .
the staybright insignia , the wings on the high collar , the jacket buttons were still bright although he hadnt had the uniform out in over a year .
the two rows of theatre ribbons looked colorful against the dark blue background .
he rummaged around on a shelf in the closet until he found the maroon beret so proudly earned and worn by the paras .
he squared it away and looked at himself in the mirror .
momentarily the figure looking back at him was twenty years younger , twenty pounds lighter , well suntanned with a confident look in the twinkling blue eyes .
quickly the image faded to be replaced with nothing to be liked .
pasty faced , overweight , round shouldered , tired looking in an all too tight uniform that looked as though it had been rented rather than custom tailored at hobsons military tailors in london .
he took a chair from the bedside and , standing on it , reached into the back of the top shelf in the closet .
finding the small suitcase he was looking for he placed it on the bed and opened it .
inside a jumble of old photographs , nearly all from his years spent in the army , many from the paras but also many from 22 sas in borneo .
he found photos of gema and himself taken in and around kuching .
he found copies of the photos taken at long alat showing the team , the bodies and the grave with harry and peter .
beneath the photos a cardboard box , an old shoe box .
he lifted it out , it was heavy .
removing the lid he opened up the oily package to reveal the browning high power issued to him so many years before .
some of the bluing was worn where it had rubbed for years in the holster .
it gleamed dully under its sheen of gun oil .
he worked the sliderit still operated with a satisfying click .
taking the empty magazine and a box of 9 mill hollow points he went back down to the study and thoughtfully poured himself a drink .
deep in terry iredales subconscious there was this incessant beeping .
it sounded like a microwave at the end of its cycleno perhaps a mobile that needs re charging.the alarm clock ?
no that was more of a jangle .
slowly he clawed his way out of the deep sleep .
margaret lay asleep by his side , gently snoring .
whatever it was it hadnt woken her up .
it was driving him crazy , slightly muffled , high pitched and incessantdemanding .
he jerked awake , leapt out of bed .
the proximity alarmsthe heat sensors in the woods !
he ran downstairs and into the estate office .
they had installed a series of sensors in the woods surrounding the property .
they were numbered , wireless and detected either motion or a heat bloom of anything larger than a small animal .
they were sited in such a way that progress could be recorded .
station 4a had been triggered but nothing else , whatever had set if off was stationary .
so much for the minders , he thought where the hell are they ?
he quickly dressed , put on a white camouflage suit and balaclava .
there was no one currently up at the house to call .
he checked the system again..there was still no motion .
whatever it was it was still stationary in the woods beyond the paddock to the south of the house .
it could be the minders themselves of course .
although they were aware of the system they were still not yet aware of each individual location .
he quietly let himself out of the house and started to make his way around the perimeter of the property .
it had snowed again , lying on the ground muffling any sounds he might make .
he stopped , motionless , every ten paces or so..listening .
he could feel the adrenaline coursing through his body .
i might be getting old , he thought but i aint dead yet .
he arrived at the beginning of section four and quietly made a right angled turn in the direction of the main house still stopping every few paces and listening .
every now and again the moon peered out from behind the clouds lighting up the stark , bare winter woods .
he looked for tracks in the moonlight but realized he would see nothing as it was only 4a that had been tripped .
he knew that 4a was located only just in the tree line giving a good view of the south side of the house , the paddocks and study windows .
he slowly moved forward soundless and almost invisible in his camo .
ethereal in the dark the white paddock fencing came into view , he could see the outline of the big house in the distance .
he knew he was within range of the sensor .
he stopped , crouched down and waited for the moon to come out again , no sound except the rustling of some small night creature and the periodic call of an owl far in the distance .
he willed his heart to slow down and waited .
like the drawing back of a curtain the clouds revealed the moon lighting up the woods in its cold light .
terry inched forward through the snow visually casting to both sides looking for some sort of human sign .
he had almost given up , was ready to put the alarm down to some technical glitch when he saw it , an area of snow , close to the fence where someone had been lying .
they had been there long enough for their body warmth to begin melting the snow and hadnt been gone too long as there was no fresh snow in the indentation .
there were boot prints leading away to the east following the line of the fence .
slowly and quietly he followed the trail away from the house .
the blow took him behind the right ear .
he fell face forward in the snow remembering a pair of black , lace up boots below white over pants .
he remembered wondering why he hadnt heard anything before the blackness overcame him .
george and jennie were driving over to see dickie mason .
they had been out the night before in hereford , a nice meal and a few drinks in the green dragon .
rather than drive home to eaton bishop george had stayed over at jennies .
he wanted to see dick to warn him of what his intuition was telling him .
jennie had decided to tag along as she didnt have to get together with dave rowden until lunchtime .
pulling into the yard between the house and gemas flat they were faced with two police cars and an ambulance the red , blue and white flashing lights reflecting off the windows and wet cobble stones of the old yard .
showing her warrant card they went in through the front door .
mrs. trenholme was being interviewed in the kitchen by a uniformed officer she looked up her face tear stained .
thank goodness youre here sergeant plowright..captain mason shot himself !
they stood in the entrance to the study .
the room was being kept empty as the coroner had not yet arrived .
they walked in , careful where they were putting their feet and making sure they didnt touch anything .
jennie looked carefully at the scene trying to analyze exactly what had happened .
dick was sitting in his armchair by the cold fire .
he was dressed in his dress blues .
it looked as though hed had a drink and perhaps spent some time looking at his favorite photo of gema and wendy as it was in his lap rather than on the mantelpiece .
hed taken off the maroon beret and left it on the coffee table .
hed placed the muzzle of the browning in his mouth and literally blown the top of his head off , most of which was on the ceiling .
the gun had fallen to his side .
george stood there the memories running through his mind like a fast forwarded film , malaya , sarawak , bradbury lines , harry , peter..even ohara the shit storm in kuching when dick had announced his intention to marry gema .
hours spent on the golf course .
hours spent in this very room .
he looked at all the photos on the walls .
he knew almost everyone there.he was in many himself .
his thoughts were broken by jennie .
what a bloody mess , she murmured , cant just assume suicide with what is going on , have to do a complete investigation .
she called the station on bath st. and explained the situation to david .
due to the relationship with harry downer and peter brenner she insisted she be made the investigating officer .
send a crime unit over , she instructed , this is to be treated as a crime scene , a murder site until it is ruled out .
it certainly looks like a suicide but we cant be sure .
she took a last look around and strode purposefully down to the kitchen where mrs. trenholme was keeping herself busy by making tea for everyone .
when did you last see mrs. mason and her daughter ?
she asked .
they were here together yesterday morning but the car wasnt here this morning and there were no fresh tire tracks in the yard so no one has been around since it started to snow .
the coroners van pulled into the yard followed by the crime scene investigation unit .
jennie went outside to talk them before they entered the house .
i want this site treated as a crime scene .
it certainly looks like a suicide but.no assumptions .
doctor..when you get to it i want complete blood work on the deceasedyoure looking for antiarin and rhamnose .
she saw the doctors eyebrows go up .
i know thats a bit weird , she explained , but theres method in my madness believe me .
she turned to the crime unit .
look for a note and dust the whole place , its a crime scene until i say different .
now where the hell are gema and wendy mason ?
the pub was a warm , cozy place the flickering flames of the fire winking off the horse brasses on the walls .
jennie sat in the nook with george and dave rowden .
it seemed far away from the harsh realities of her job .
she struggled to get the sight of dick mason out of her mind .
how desperate do you have to be to take your own life ?
how empty must the future look ?
how alone must you feel ?
we have the autopsy results on ohara , david interrupted her thoughts , he didnt drown although there was a little water in his lungs .
he died from a heart failure brought on by a savage blow to the chest , he was dying when he entered the water .
he had massive bruising on and in his chest .
any sign of gema or wendy yet ?
asked jennie .
nothing yet but the commander is on the job..we should hear something soon .
im heading home tonight , said george , i need to talk to robbiesome business stuff andhe was going to talk to paan about those tattoos .
you coming with me jen or are you staying in hereford ?
i should stay here for a while george , she replied , need to get to the bottom of this mason thing and we need to talk to gema and wendy once we find them .
it had started to snow again blowing in from the west .
the land rovers wipers clacked rhythmically..he slid the transmission into four wheeled drive as the snow built on the road .
luckily it wasnt too far to eaton bishop .
he was looking forward to putting his feet up and spending time with his dogs .
he was trying to figure out how the hell he had gotten involved in this crap when his mobile rang urgently .
whereve you been george ?
robbie asked , weve been trying to find you for a while .
i had my phone off for a while rob.whats up ?
terry was attacked in the woods .
he was outside for quite a while before we found him .
i have him in the house but hes a bit hypothermic , hes going to be ok though .
nasty bruise on the side of his head but hes a tough old bastard .
he seems more pissed that somebody was able to jump him rather than worrying about his head .
im on my way home now , said george , get hold of orourkeget him over to the house quick time .
i should be there in about fifteen minutes..its snowing pretty hard just now .
the gates were closed when he arrived , he got out of the land rover and made to open them .
stop right where you are , a soft irish brogue from the dark , a flashlight right in his face blinding him .
sergeant majordidnt know if it was you or not , cant be too careful .
its rafferty..remember me ?
i was in b troop in the regiment .
he stepped out of the dark , into the light cast by the cars headlights , dressed in full winter camo , mp5 slung across his chest .
better be careful with that thing , said george smiling nodding at the weapon , someone might get their nose out of joint seeing something like that out in rural herefordshire , terry ok ?
he seems fine , replied rafferty , band aid and a couple of drinks did the trick , having a hell of a job getting him to stay in bed for a while .
old bugger thinks hes still thirty five .
the dogs nearly knocked him over when he opened the door , robbie was waiting for him in the study .
george walked straight down the corridor to the guest rooms .
terry was sitting up in bed looking no worse for wear other than the band aid over his ear .
he glared at george as he walked in .
some bastard jumped me in the woods down by the paddock..never heard a bloody thing .
he had some sort of op right in the tree line , must have been there for a while .
he went on to explain the circumstances , george listening patiently thanking all the powers that another of his friends hadnt died .
okyou stay where you are at least until tomorrow .
well bring margaret into the house for a while .
the boys are on the ball .
rafferty scared the shit out of me at the gate , robbie i want to talk to you .
they settled in the study the dogs content in front of the fire , george happy to be back in his familiar surroundings .
i spoke to paan , said robbie , took me all my time not to burst out laughing , little bugger still hasnt figured out the phone , cant get it into his head that im here in england and hes in brunei.anyway heres how it is .
the tattoos are peculiar to most of the indigenous tribes in borneo and mean different things .
they are applied at different stages of their lives and are a status symbol .
the kayan tattoo the fingers before they are ten years old and the girls add to them before they marry , over the wrists and up the arms as they achieve status .
what is distinct about the kayan is that the finger tattoos identify not only the clan to which they belong but also the family .
george sat there gazing into the fire .
not sure what it all means but thanks anyway , what else is going on ?
i spoke to another of my guys who tells me that the arrangements concerning the proposed patrols in the south are not going very well .
apparently the problem is not with the oil company itself but more with the sultan .
hes not happy with the notion of us taking on almost a military task but he admits he doesnt have the resources to do it himself .
you might have to get involved yourself.youve played golf with him after allmaybe you can convince him .
he doesnt seem to be concerned about the cost of it mind you he never is .
i think hes more worried about the optics of it .
george stood up and poured them both a drink .
ive got some bad news for you robbie , he said quietly , dick mason shot himselflooks that way anyway .
jennies taken over the investigation because of his links to the other guys .
robbie just sat there shaking his head .
what the hell is going on here , he said thickly .
ive no fucking idea , said george , what i do know is that it 's getting out of hand .
its time to get proactive but i dont know how without getting afoul of the law .
really dont even know where to start .
cant just hold a defensive position for ever.more people could get hurt.and we dont know whyor who .
we know zip !
chapter 32 rattle a cage it was over a week before the autopsy results on dick mason were made available to the team .
the conclusion was definitely suicide , no note had been found .
jennies investigation had turned up that he had been clinically depressed for quite some time and had been trying out different medications .
the body still had not been released to the familywhich begged another question.where was the family ?
still no sign of either gema or wendy .
considering the circumstances , the decision was made to keep the findings under wraps for the time being .
winter had now set in with a vengeance , unusual for herefordshire .
snow lay heavy on the higher ground and it was colder than it had been for years .
the old timers said it reminded them of the winter of forty seven .
jennie was still seconded to dave rowdens team , spending the week days working out of the bath st. station but her weekends with george in eaton bishop .
the old house had become a home away from home for her .
she had gotten used to the guards , in their white camo , that george insisted stay around until some sort of conclusion was arrived at .
terry had healed and was his old self .
he and margaret had moved back into the lodge down by the estate entrance .
robbie was making rumblings about returning to brunei .
george seemed to be more introspective , spent hours in the museum cataloguing his collection and running the business from the home office .
conference call , said david walking into the office , commander wants to talk to us.he has some news i think .
they sat huddled over the speakerphone .
wendy mason has left the country , said the disembodied voice , took us a while to get the info .
she bought a one way ticket to bandar via kuala lumpur or rather her mother did in her name , shell be there by now .
thats a turn up for the book , said david , whats with the one way ticket ?
either shes no intention of coming back or she doesnt know when .
any sign of gema ?
asked jennie .
not yet jennie , she seems to have disappeared .
jennie and david sat there looking at each other , the commander had hung up with the promise to keep them updated .
time to rattle some cages , said jennie , im going to go see mrs. trenholme .
she knows more than shes letting on .
arriving at the masons she was surprised to see both a for sale sign outside the property and the green jag parked in the yard .
she knocked on the door of the main house .
when the door was not answered she walked across the yard to the old barn , climbed the steps and knocked on the door to the flat , gema came to the door .
i assume this is not a social call , said gema , so how can i help you sergeant ?
first thing you can do is invite me in , said jennie , its damned cold out here .
id rather you didnt come into the flat , said gema aloofly .
jennie had had just about enough of this woman her patience was running a little thin .
let me tell you how it is mrs. mason .
concerning the death of your husband nothing has , as of now , been concluded therefore this entire property is a crime scene .
either you let me in right now or i will come back with a warrant that will allow us to search the entire property .
i will also do my best to see that you are charged with obstruction of justice in which case your passport will be seized amongst other things , the choice is yours .
sitting in the living room she looked around startled by what she saw .
wheres wendy ?
she asked conversationally .
im not sure that i know sergeant.shes a grown woman and has her own life , she certainly doesnt check in with me all the time .
jennie looked around the large room .
strange living room , looks more like a gym , she said , i understand youre into martial arts mrs. mason ?
before gema could answer she continued , let me help you out a bit .
wendy is in brunei , bandar to be accurate .
she flew out three days ago via kuala lumpur .
the ticket was bought by you .
she stood up to leave , im really getting quite bored with your evasiveness , it would be better if we continued this discussion down at the station .
are you arresting me ?
asked gema incredulously .
nonothing of the sort , why would i do that ?
youre just helping us with our enquiries .
when would be convenient for you , hows tomorrow morning first thing ?
she smiled , walked out of the flat and headed back to bath st. feeling satisfied .
i was in her flat..it looks just like the bloody photos you showed me of longhouses in borneo .
shed immediately called george on getting back to the office and was almost shouting .
its bloody freaky..theres even a sort of shrine thing at one endtheres a bloody skull on it for christs sake !
ive asked her to come into the office in the morning id like you to be there if you have the timeoh and , by the way , bring that nifty little camera of yours .
he agreed to be in hereford the following day and , after saying goodbye and hanging up , immediately dialed another number .
where are you jimmy ?
he asked .
on bath st. keeping an eye on jennie..shes in the cop shop just now .
yea i know , said george , i was just talking to her .
for the time being i want you take the surveillance off jennie and keep an eye on gema masonyou know where she lives .
make sure its 24 7 she seems to be a bit slippery..stay in touch and keep me in the loop .
chapter 33 a brunei summer as she stepped out of the plane onto the top of the steps down to the ground , the engines still winding down , the oppressive heat hit her like the open door of a sauna .
it seemed hotter than her last visit even though that had only been a few weeks ago .
now it was the rainy season .
her dress immediately clung to her body , she thought it had been hot in kuala lumpur but here , in bandar , right on the south china sea and open to the north eastern monsoons the humidity had to be an hundred percent .
the stair rail was hot to the touch as she stepped down and onto the tarmac at bruneis main airport .
she breathed a sigh of satisfaction .
it wasnt sarawak but it was close enough for the time being even with the stink of kerosene from the planes engines , now cooling .
as she stood by the carousel waiting for her bag her startling blue eyes took in her surroundings .
she towered over most everyone else , after all she was almost six feet in her stockings , now with her heels , she seemed like a giant .
her hair was short but auburn not black like her mothers .
the sun was already breaking out her freckles although the sweat was drying on her in the air conditioning of arrivals .
the air was full of lively chatter mostly in malay..some in english .
airport arrivals always seems to be such a happy place she thought .
her one bag arrived and , without bothering with a cart , she hefted it and headed over to customs .
showing her british passport and with nothing to declare she made her way to the taxi rank .
radisson brunei please , she said as she settled into the back seat .
it was still not yet lunchtime as the flight from malaya had not taken long .
she had time to check in , have a shower , a bite to eat and then head over to mudd security to see robbie mcelroy .
after showering and dressed in a simple khaki cotton dress she called the security firm from her room .
the phone was answered by a woman with a scottish burr to her voice .
mudd security , how may i help you ?
robbie mcelroy please .
im so sorry but mr. mcelroy is out of the country just now .
we dont expect him back for another week or so .
this is wendy mason , i actually have an appointment to see him this afternoon .
i arranged it with him in england .
im sorry miss mason .
he was originally scheduled to be back by now but he got held up .
i apologize , is there anything i can do to help you ?
im not sure .
i have no other reason to be here in brunei other than to see him .
is there anyone there who knows where paan lives now ?
they are called proboscis monkeys , he said in malay , this island is famous for them and tourists come from all over .
pulau ranggu is an island in the middle of the brunei river not far upstream from bandar .
mcelroy had bought a small farm , if it could be called that , and given it to paan when he was employed by mudd security .
wendy had taken the water taxi up the river , the only way to travel in this particular area and was easily directed to his home .
your malay is very good now , he said quietly , almost as good as your mothers but then she has had more practice .
they were sitting on the porch of his one bedroom , block house overlooking the muddy waters of the river as it slid by .
his wife was in the kitchen preparing the evening meal , his two children hanging onto her skirts and peeping , from time to time , at this tall woman with the red hair that spoke their language and had the tattooed fingers of the kayan .
you have come back many times wening .
i have often wondered about that after that first time with gema .
you seem quieter now..more at home .
he squatted on the veranda , dressed solely in shorts his bare feet splayed out on the rough boards .
most of his body was tattooed in the traditional way of the penan , that tribe renowned as the most ferocious in the days when head hunting was common .
he ignored the chair that robbie had given him and gazed at the river seemingly at peace with his lot .
his hair was grey now as he was in his mid forties but his eyes were still bright and his body obviously still hard .
i am at home here , she answered in malay , more at home than in england .
after that first trip into the orang ulu with you and my mother i came to see that kalimantan is part of my heritage , that being kayan was more important to me than being english .
my mother understands this .
now i speak malay and butak the language of the kayan .
i follow , with my mother , our old traditions and pray to semangatan .
we see very little of my father and i am sad to say we live apart .
that is a sad thing , he said quietly , family traditions and family honor are the backbone of life for both the panan and the kayan .
i never met your father although i have heard of him of course .
as you know i spent several years with sergeant george , downer , brenner and , of course , robbie mcelroy .
i guided them , i taught them to be patient , taught them to be quiet , taught them how to survive in my land .
when mr. robbie came to brunei he offered me a job as scout and guide .
he got me an indonesian passport and brought me to brunei..to this farm .
now i have a wife , two children and a home .
i am content .
i have been on a plane .
i have been in a helicopter .
she looked at this rock of a little man .
she was almost a foot taller than he but he exuded an inner strength , a calm , a faith in his heritage , he knew who he was !
your hands are hard and you are not fat , he said his bright , black eyes looking at her quizzically , have you kept up with your silat ?
yes , she replied , more than that .
i am guru muda as is my mother .
i attend the dojo three times a week and enter into combat .
i practice with my mother when i am at her home .
it is my heritage as it is my mothers and all our forbears .
heading downstream , back to bandar , in the heavy river traffic , the waning sun hot on her back , she reflected on the fact that she had not told paan about harry downer or peter brenner .
chapter 34 the interview march in england is not the greatest of months no matter where you are and hereford is no exception .
the weather still comes rolling in from the grey atlantic and over the welsh hills .
the countryside has not yet woken up to the fact that , in a few short weeks , it will be a riot of color as the daffodils , crocus and bluebells welcome another spring .
gema reflected on this as she walked up bath street in the direction of the police station .
she envied wendy being in sarawak or wherever she was .
it was summer there.hot and humid .
here she was dodging puddles and the spray from passing vehicles .
everything seemed to be grey.grey weather , grey buildings , grey people even her mood was grey .
what could the police possibly want with her ?
her appointment was with jen plowright and david rowden .
she remembered meeting them both at george mudds christmas dinner party and of course plowright had been around at the house the previous day .
now she wished shed paid a little more attention to them at georges .
forewarned is to be forearmed .
she climbed the steps up into the police station happy to be out of the weather but the interior did nothing to brighten her spirits , a typical old fashioned station house badly in need of a coat of paint with an odor hard to define but not particularly pleasant .
she was shown into a small conference room that had seen better days and still stank of stale cigarette smoke although most certainly the building had been a no smoking area for several years .
the floor was covered in indiscriminate green linoleum long out of style and well worn by a multitude of feet .
one of the fluorescents needed a new ballast and flickered annoyingly .
a tall man in a hacking jacket and cavalry twills stood gazing out of the window his back to her as she entered the room .
he turned around .
bloody depressing place isnt it gema ?
he said smiling .
george what the bloody hell are you doing here ?
she asked , for that matter what am i doing here too ?
thought you might like a friendly face , he said laughingly .
seriously though i m actually a consultant or observer as i m sure someone is going to explain .
nothing to be afraid of just be sure not to drink the coffee..it s disgusting .
after a few minutes david and jennie entered the room and invited gema and george to sit down .
before we start , said david , i just want you to know how sorry we all are concerning dickie .
although i personally didn t know him other than meeting him at christmas i know that george has known him for a long time as have you gema if i might call you that .
i think at this time , in order to clear the air and put things into perspective so to speak we should properly introduce ourselves .
my name really is david rowden but i m a major in the 1st parachute regiment and attached to the anti terrorist task force .
sergeant plowright you already know and she also is temporarily attached to the same task force but with specific responsibility for the investigation of the deaths of peter brenner , harry downer , sergeant o hara of the irish regiment and your husband .
george you obviously already know but he is also attached to the same task force as a consultant .
i m sure you will understand that he has a lot to bring to the table .
having said that do you have any questions for us gema before we proceed , perhaps youd like a coffee or a soft drink ?
i dont want anything to drink thank you , she replied coolly , what i dont understand is what all this has to do with me and why im here ?
let me set your mind at rest gema , said george from the window , you are not a suspect in any of this but you might well be able to help us .
george is quite right , interrupted david , lets try and put things into perspective and then im sure youll understand why we feel we have to ask you some questions .
in our line of work it is hard to accept coincidences on face value .
im not saying they dont occur because they do but only after intense investigation to ensure there is no link or connection are they accepted .
for the time being we will exclude the death of your husband as cause of death is still in the hands of the coroner .
i apologize for sounding so callous but i have little option .
brenner , downer and ohara are all dead .
all three were murdered under unusual circumstances which we are unable to divulge to you .
what we can tell you is that all three were in the same military troup in the sixties in sarawak and all three were known to you .
to me that is beyond being coincidental .
you are one of the common denominators , one of the links so hopefully you can help us .
gema sat at the table staring at georges back as he watched the rain running down the window .
george ive known you for over twenty years do you really think i have anything to do with this ?
the idea is quite preposterous , please say something .
gema , as i said before , you are not a suspect in this but you are a link and you might well have useful information for us that possibly you dont even know you have .
we would be better off if we simply asked you some straight forward questions and allowed you to answer them in your own way .
gema stood , gathered her coat , bag and gloves .
i will have no part in this , im leaving now .
if you wish to speak to me in the future please speak to my solicitor .
i will leave you his name and number .
jennie stood up and took up a position in front of the door .
mrs. mason i warned you yesterday about being evasive now im warning you about your lack of cooperation and how that might be viewed .
she looked at david who nodded his agreement .
sergeant plowright is quite right gema .
if you force me to it i shall invoke the terrorist act which allows me to hold you for an extended period of time without warrant or charge .
i would much prefer not to have to do that .
please gema ... .sit down and answer the questions , nobody is here to hurt you , cut in george , like you said weve known each other for a long time .
gema sat down .
ask your questions then .
david , opening a leather bound note pad .
what was your relationship with brenner , downer and ohara ?
i never had a relationship as you put it .
i vaguely knew them in sarawak as they were part of an sas team to which i was interpreter .
as i remember it ohara used to get me tea .
brenner and downer were part of a fire team .
i have hardly seen them since other than the occasions they got together to play golf with dickie , who was their old co and george of course .
i saw all three recently at the reunion and saw both brenner and ohara at downers funeral .
do you know a frank jennings ?
asked david .
jennings was also in sarawak .
he was very friendly with ohara as i remember .
i havent seen him since .
he was at the funeral , said george .
i didnt see him , not sure id recognize him anyway , she replied .
wheres wendy ?
asked george from the window .
as i told sergeant plowright yesterday im not really sure .
she went to brunei ... .bandar to be specific but i havent heard from her so she could be anywhere .
shell be going up to cambridge in september to read asian studies .
to prepare for this she is spending as much of her gap year as possible in indonesia studying the culture .
what was your relationship like with your husband ?
asked david .
i dont understand the relevance of that question , she retorted .
we cant lose sight of the fact that he was also in sarawak at the same time as the others so there is some relevance , said jennie .
i think its common knowledge in this room that we were estranged .
we hadnt lived together as man and wife for a long time .
he had a hard time with his retirement and was severely depressed .
he was on medication as im sure youll find out .
do you know tony wei ?
asked david .
never heard of him , who is he ?
its of little importance gema ... ..bit of a shot in the dark .
george walked over from the window and sat down .
the rain has stopped at least , he said to no one in particular .
gema those little tattoos on the backs of your fingers have always fascinated me obviously they have some sort of significance .
george you know my background , im a full blood kayan from kalimantan .
these finger tattoos are called tedek and are applied when we are young , to male and female alike .
they are added to as life progresses , as achievements are made .
many men would be covered from head to toe particularly in the old days .
they vary from tribe to tribe , clan to clan and family to family .
david stood up and stretched his back .
the coroner still has not made a determination concerning dickies death gema .
under the circumstances we have no option but to treat the house and associated buildings as a crime scene .
we will be putting a forensic team in there immediately .
in fact theyll be there by the time you get home .
sorry for the inconvenience as theyll be looking in every nook and cranny .
i have to advise you not to touch or remove anything until you are advised that it is clear to do so .
do you have anywhere else to stay for a short time ?
she thought for a moment .
i could stay at wendys flat in london for a few days .
do me good to get away from here for a while anyway .
i dont have a problem with that .
leave the address and phone number with sergeant plowright just in case we need to get in touch with you .
when she left the station it had , in fact , stopped raining but a chill wind was blowing up bath st. , george had offered to give her a ride home but she preferred to walk so many questions , the past rearing its ugly head , memories coming back in waves .
her parents , life in the orang ulu ... ... .the jungles of what used to be borneo , the years spent in kuching with the missionaries , dickie her husband lying on a slab in the morgue .
the one bright ray of light , her boundless love and pride for her daughter wening named after her grandmother .
she strode back past the cathedral .
she had nothing to fear and she would enjoy a few days in london ... chance to do a little shopping ... ..perhaps start looking for a tenant for the flat when wendy was up at cambridge .
jimmy o rourke dropped back another hundred yards or so .
she was in easy sight now and seemed to be heading home .
he looked forward to changing shifts with rafferty .
he was cold , wet and bored and looking forward to a guinness in front of the fire in the pub .
chapter 35 the photo god i hate that police station its so bloody depressing , said jen putting down her pint .
its a wonder you can get anyone to say anything in there , said george , its so damned dickensian .
i heard , on the local grapevine , that it will be shut down eventually and a new station will be built over the river .
ledbury is really too far away to service hereford .
well she didnt have too much to say thats for sure , interjected david , a very cool customer .
dont underestimate her for one moment , said george , remember ive known her on and off for over half her life .
shes very bright , speaks five languages fluently and is as hard as nails .
i wouldnt like to take her on !
in indonesia theres a form of martial arts called silat which originated with the tribes in the interior .
downer was into it a little and took some basic training whilst he was in sarawak back in the sixties .
apparently its very old , originated in the fifth or sixth century .
its derived from the hunting styles of animals in the jungle and is common in families that have inherited cultural traditions .
its not limited to physical offense and defense but really focuses on the spiritual which makes practitioners even more dangerous .
like i said i really wouldnt like to take her on .
jen took another pull on her pint .
when i spoke to robbie mcelroy about her he said she was an enigma , a throwback to the past , literally a product of the jungle from a way of life that most of us could not possibly begin to even comprehend yet living in a modern society .
her life must be one of constant push and pull .
its all well and good , said david , but where the hell do we go from here ?
she didnt tell us anything we dont already know , any ideas anyone ?
george gazed into the fire the single malt warming his stomach .
we cant ignore the fact that four people are dead therefore we have to assume a defensive posture for the time being .
we should include jennings , even though hes in jail , myself , colonel gurney and robbie mcelroy .
i think for the time being ill keep robbie in england .
brunei can wait for the time being .
his phone vibrated in his pocket .
he spoke for a few minutes , i have eyes on gema just now , that was jimmy orourke .
she went straight home ... walked all the way .
your forensic van was at the house so theyll be starting now .
rafferty is keeping an eye on the place for a while , jimmy was whining about being cold , wet and thirsty .
for now gema is the only common denominator we have , other than the people that might be still threatened which includes yours truly .
david stood up , well back to the grind , we need to rattle her cage somehow .
jen , i think you should head over to the masons perhaps take someone with you .
let the forensics people do their thing but you have a really good snoop around starting with the flat over the barn .
the techies will be focused on the house for now so you won t be in each others way , i m going to talk to the commander about getting some formal surveillance going , you don t suppose she might have anything to do with the chinese do you ?
george drove back to eaton bishop on his own , jen had taken her own vehicle over to the masons to conduct the search whilst the forensic team was on the property .
a couple of uniforms were meeting her there to give her a hand .
david was going to speak to the commander to both bring him up to speed and suggest some technical surveillance on gema mason .
halfway home he pulled over to the side of the road and rummaged about in his briefcase .
he was sure he had it with him .
he found it tucked in with all his notes , the print of the photo he had taken of tony weis hands .
after sitting and thinking for several minutes he turned the land rover around and headed back towards hereford .
he was in no hurry and the rain had set in again , if it turned much colder it would snow .
there was no room to park in the masons cobbled yard .
two forensic trucks , gemas jag , jens car and a panda police car filled up the space .
he parked up on the grass verge outside the gate .
he ignored the main house and climbed the wooden stairs to the flat over the garage .
a uniformed police woman answered his knock and let him in after asking for jen and showing his temporary warrant card .
he entered into a tastefully furnished entrance hallway with a distinct oriental feel to it .
passing through it he came to an open plan , super modern kitchen and breakfast room with large shuttered windows doubtless overlooking the courtyard .
wheres sergeant plowright ?
he asked the uniform .
through that door in the main room sir , she answered .
he opened the door and just stood there in amazement .
i told you what it was like george didnt i ?
said jen , she was sitting on a cushion at the far end of the room going through the contents of a camphorwood chest of drawers .
i know you did jen but this is bloody amazing , i had no idea it was like this .
the room was at least fifty feet long and perhaps half of that wide .
looking up , the exposed beams of the original barn roof could be seen in the gloom .
they had to be at least twenty feet clear .
two slowly moving fans moved the air .
the floor gleamed , a huge , shiny expanse of polished teak with the odd piece of soft furniture scattered around the perimeter .
two of the walls were solid sheets of glass looking out onto farmland , now veiled in grey rain .
on one wall a rack storing a selection of parangs , several small knives , lengths of bamboo , a flute and several drums of different sizes .
at the far end , just as jen had described , a small shrine , a tiny white skull , a small pile of pebbles , a drumstick made of some black wood , a couple of small wooden bowls and a large woven basket .
i had no idea it was like this , its like her own personal dojo , its almost creepy .
certainly not out of place in indonesia , ive seen them myself ... ... but in hereford ?
where is she anyway ?
he asked .
in the bedroom george ... through there , she nodded towards a closed teak door .
fair warning ... ..shes spitting bullets about our search ... ..cant blame her i suppose .
i would probably feel the same , why are you here anyway ?
i had a bit of a brainstorm on the way home .
dont really know why i didnt think of it back at the station ... ... ... ... ... better late than never i suppose .
knocking on the door and not getting any response he pushed open the door and walked into the room .
she was sitting on a hard chair staring out of the window at the ever worsening weather .
she looked up , i thought you were my friend george .
i was wrong , my world is upside down and i dont know what ive done .
i am your friend gema and i dont believe youve actually done anything .
what i do believe is that you can help us clear up this mess .
how ?
i dont know but i do believe that information exists that can send us off in the right direction and then we can all get on with our lives .
she didnt cry , her face remaining expressionless staring out of the window .
george could see her reflection as it started to get dark outside .
she stood up and turned on a couple of lamps that barely lit the corners of the sparsely furnished room .
she sat on the edge of the bed and looked at him , he , in turn , looked at her feeling sad .
i wonder how she feels inside ?
he thought , shes part jungle animal and part professional interpreter .
shes equally at home in the jungles of borneo or the drawing rooms of herefordshire ... ... ... ... ... .or is she ?
shes probably far more at home in indonesia than here .
the only thing keeping her here in england is the fact that wendy is going up to cambridge .
im sure , if it were not for that , she would live somewhere in the far east .
he looked carefully at her .
she was still a beautiful woman .
she had to be forty five but didnt look a day over thirty .
shed cut her hair short and there was just a touch of grey at the temples .
her hands , clasped together in her lap , were hard and calloused out of character with her sensual appeal .
her face was calm but she seemed tense like a coiled spring .
i have something to show you gem , he said quietly , i dont know what it means , if anything at all , but its something perhaps you can help me with .
he took the photo of tony weis hands out of his inside pocket and held it out to her .
after the attack on the base at tern hill which , as you now know , involved sergeant ohara we picked up a number of people who are now being held and will be charged under the terrorist act .
this is just one of the photographs we took of one of the individuals ... ... ... ... ..actually , as you can see , the backs of his hands .
she took the photo and taking it over to one of the lamps she held it in the light .
looking at it she immediately took the spiritual position of a guru muda of the silat .
she focused on her centre and did not allow her feelings or thoughts to manifest themselves physically in any way .
its hard to say , she whispered , the tattoos are faded and the photo is quite small .
i would say they probably belong to someone from the kalimantan .
i couldnt say anymore than that .
thats what i thought , said george , he insists hes from viet nam and actually has a legitimate vietnamese passport .
we think hes some sort of sleeper attached to the chinese .
i told him , to his face , i thought he was indonesian .
i could probably help you much more george if i could see his hands close up perhaps even speak with him ... ... ... ... ... im assuming its a him ?
yes its a him , replied george , ill make the suggestion to the people running the investigation .
you going to be here long jen ?
he asked , walking back into the great room .
a few hours i think george , its going to take a couple of days for us to go through the whole damn place .
you going to stay in town or come out to eaton bishop ?
better i stay here , i only have to come back first thing in the morning .
much as i would like to come out there and fool around , she said quietly , smiling at him .
he bent down to the cushion she was squatting on and said very quietly , i managed to seriously rattle her cage i think .
ill tell you about it later .
call me at home .
rafferty is outside keeping an eye on the house and we have a warrant for the gpo to put a tap on the phones here and over in the house .
we already have ears on her cell phone .
chapter 36 brecon walk i have a couple of days off , she said , like to do anything particular or just hang out ?
she asked .
i thought you hadnt finished the search of the masons yet ?
he replied .
we havent .
the uniforms are still at it but if i dont get a bit of a break soon im going to go nuts with it all .
he thought for a moment , you ever been to brecon ?
its a spectacular little place and not too much of a drive from here .
thats in wales isnt it ?
she said .
certainly is ... ..just over the border , one of the jumping off spots for the beacons .
i could do with something different .
sounds like a nice change , what do we need ?
just some good walking gear plus warm , layered clothing , the weather can be pretty iffy this time of year .
as they drove into the village in the land rover jen could see that george had been quite right .
the village was quite spectacular , totally unspoiled , the castle and church looming in the centre .
the castle and church were built in ten something or other , he said , theres a terrific military museum here run by the welsh borderers .
they have several of the victoria crosses won at rourkes drift .
the village has a military history which is why i know it so well .
its actually in the brecon beacons which is now a national park but still used by the military for extreme training .
its used by the sas , the marines and any other unit that has the balls to try it , he said laughingly , well stay at the brecon castle hotel and maybe take a bit of a walk tomorrow .
jennie was charmed .
the hotel , she found out , was the oldest in wales and actually built into the walls of the ancient castle .
the views were spectacular being on the banks of the river and , in the distance , the menacing beacons glistening under the late snow , pen fan , one of the highest mountains in wales starkly outlined against the sky .
that evening the hotels restaurant and bar lived up to its reputation for the best of local fare and cider that creeps up on you , if youre not too careful .
later that night curled up in the huge four poster bed , sans tee shirt , georges muscular body tea spooned against her back she said sleepily so what about tomorrow then ?
staying as we are seems like a pretty good idea to me , pressing her rear into his body .
we can go for a walk if you like , said george in her ear , but well have to be careful .
the weather at this time of year can change in a heartbeat .
well stay in the lowlands .
i know a route that is only ten or twelve miles thatll take us through some of the woodlots and by some of the waterfalls .
they can be really pretty this time of year .
we could be back come late afternoon .
sounds good to me , she whispered , providing youre not in too much of a hurry to get up in the morning .
you can be a real slut sometimes , he said rolling on top of her .
i know , she said opening her legs to welcome him , thats one of the reasons you love me .
its not so tough in here , she said as they hiked by a roaring waterfall .
they had seen no one over the first few miles .
the mountain visitors centre was closed for the winter and there would be few casual hikers .
this is the easy part of the park , he called back to her , the military doesnt come down here .
they operate over the tops .
its really tough , maybe the toughest in the world .
for the sas only ten percent actually qualify , the final test is called the endurance .
its forty miles with a fifty five pound pack plus water , food and weapon , has to be finished in twenty hours .
if you qualify here you then go to the jungle warfare school in brunei which is where i finished my military service as part of the training cadre .
its a tough go ! !
the trail , although easy , was now closing in .
to one side the woodlot came right to the edge of the path , the pines seemingly planted quite close together , the bright , winter sunlight barely reaching through to the thick ferns below .
shadows seemed to move in the gentle breeze .
to the other side a fairly steep rock escarpment soared upwards of forty or fifty feet .
rivulets of water ran down what looked to be an easy climb even for her .
his voice echoed off the rock face , robbie loves to come in here and run .
were getting too old to do the higher courses but we can still manage the ten miles or so in here .
we try not to come in the summer as theres plenty of hikers in here coming from brecon .
her phone vibrated gently in her jacket pocket .
hang on a minute george my phones going , no bloody peace !
hi its david , where the hell are you ?
im out on the beacons with george , well be back later today .
whats happening ?
i think we have the link ... ..a connection .
one of the uniforms found something tying gema mason to brenner and downer .
give me a bell when youre back in town .
the line went dead .
chapter 37 the link they sat in the conference room in the bath st. station the only saving grace being the starbucks in front of each of them .
the commander sat at the head of the table , jen , david and george down one side .
david why dont you lead us off , said the commander , then we can go round the table .
david had in front of him an old , legal sized envelope .
he held it up for them to see .
written on the front in faded ink were the words sarawak 1965 .
one of the uniforms found this envelope in a desk drawer in the flat over the barn , it looks as though there had been no effort to hide it .
he tipped the envelope up and a batch of old color photos , fading with age , spilled out onto the scarred table .
some of these are pretty ugly but pass them around then well go round the table .
george sat quietly , hands clasped lightly in front of him on the table , fighting an awareness that he didnt want to admit .
i dont need to see them , he said tightly , i took some of them !
after they had been around the table david took them all and pinned them on a corkboard on the wall facing the table .
would you care to fill us in as best you can george , said the commander .
they are recce photos of a village in borneo called long alat in 1965 .
we had received a report that a massacre had occurred , probably the indonesians .
most of the photos were taken from the air as you can see .
based on the photos a reconnaissance team from the 22 sas was inserted to investigate on the ground , i commanded that team .
it comprised of myself , robbie mcelroy , brenner and downer .
the close up photos on the ground , were taken by myself .
brenner and downer accompanied me through the village , or what was left of it , while mcelroy provided cover from an observation post which is why he is in none of the shots .
the spent shells in the photos were 5.56mil and had obviously been left deliberately .
in those days all sides tended to police their areas in order to leave no clues .
these shells were particularly worrying for us as we were under the impression that the sas were the only group using the new armalite ... obviously we were wrong .
due to the fact that there were wild boars all over the place we opted to bury the two bodies you can see in the photos , the two covered in tattoos .
the photo of brenner and downer standing over their grave was taken by me .
it was concluded later that the village had been singled out in order to stir up political unrest in the area .
it was also concluded that the area was so isolated that local knowledge of its very existence had to have been provided and that it could have been attacked with virtual impunity .
i remember that the propaganda was disseminated via a newspaper controlled by the indonesians .
gema mason was from that village .
many of the inhabitants would have been her relatives .
i can only assume that dickie kept these photos and gema found them .
it seemed a collective sigh came from the table .
my god , said david , if she saw those photos she could easily come to the conclusion that the 22 sas was responsible , particularly that one of brenner and downer .
the commander chipped in .
george would she have known who comprised the rest of the team ?
absolutely she would sir , replied george .
therefore the only thing she doesnt know is who is on the other end of the camera ... ..george or robbie , mused jen , bloody wonderful !
jen its actually less of a worry now if our conclusions are correct , said george .
hes quite right you know , jen , said the commander , if our assumptions are correct we know who the enemy is .
we have eyes on her constantly plus her phones and mobile are monitored .
we immediately should increase surveillance on george here , robbie mcelroy , colonel gurney and jennings , said david .
you dont have to worry about robbie or myself , said george , my own people are taking care of that .
mi5 should keep an eye on the colonel and jennings should be put into isolation if you havent already done that .
i think we have an opportunity here but we have to take a much broader view .
as i sit here looking at these photos there is another common denominator ... ... the tattoos ! !
there are tattoos on the bodies in the photos , there are tattoos on gemas hands and there are tattoos on the hands of tony wei .
they all look similar to me , must be more than pure coincidence .
anyone have any ideas ?
i should tell you that i have already shown the photo of weis hands to gema .
she admitted that she thought they were from kalimantan but thats as far as she went .
we need to get gema and wei in the same room and look for reaction .
everything we have so far is purely either circumstantial or an assumption on our part , said jen .
the commander stood up and looked more closely at the photos on the wall .
he paced up and down scratching his head .
do we think she would be capable of this ?
he asked the group in general .
absolutely , said george , remember that her background is traditional , that family and clan honor would have been drilled into her by her parents .
she is also a grand master in silat a deadly form of martial arts .
go and have a look in her flat if you want some insight into that .
also , dont lose sight of the fact that shed never even seen a white man until she was fifteen or so .
she was brought up on stories of tribal battles and clan feuds .
she also has some sort of a relationship with an old border scout called paan who robbie has known for years and is , coincidentally , employed by mudd international in borneo , probably where she got a lot of her artifacts .
they sat looking at each other mulling over the startling facts that had just come to light , the photos leering at them off the wall , evidence of an atrocity twenty years old .
i think jens right , said the commander , we need to stir things up a bit .
didnt she say she wanted to go up to london ?
lets accommodate her .
heres what i think we should do .
firstly we dont pick her up , take copies of the photos and replace them immediately where they were found .
i dont want her suspicious at all .
david i want you to elicit her help with identifying the tattoos so get her into see wei in barnet .
ill arrange it with mrs. thompson ... ... the lady with the big gun , he said laughingly .
george i want you to get robbie to talk to this paan fellow and see if hes ever sent her anything , particularly that black poison stuff we saw in your museum and which was found in both brenner and downer .
jen you stay in hereford for now , perhaps start catching up on the paper work .
well get together again here after davids taken gema to see wei and perhaps by then we will have some more information from this old border scout in borneo or sarawak or whatever they call it .
chapter 38 jungle phone george , jen and robbie relaxed in the drawing room of the old house .
the drapes were drawn , the log fire crackling in the fireplace , dogs stretched out on the mat almost nose to nose one of them twitching as he chased rabbits in his dreams .
jen lay on the couch , head in georges lap .
robbie sat by the fire in an ancient but comfortable leather chair , bowmore in hand .
hope to god he calls soon , said george , im getting tired of waiting , robbie laughed and took another sip of the single malt .
hes probably still plucking up courage .
he really hasnt figured the phone out yet .
you should have seen him the first time we took him up in a helicopter .
i thought he was going to crap himself .
anyway i left a message with the office to , one way or another , get him on the damn phone ... ..theyll call soon dont worry .
anyone want another drink ?
robbies soft scottish burr seemed somehow in keeping with the old paneled room , the fire and the dogs .
the jangling of the phone brought everyone upright tipping jen onto the floor .
you pick it up robbie ... ..its probably bandar .
mcelroy , he said into the phone , hellooo mrs. mcdonald how are things over there ?
are you surviving without me ?
have you got paan tied down yet ?
good put him on .
he smiled and looked at the other two , funny little man he is .
he broke into fluent malay .
george periodically just nodded whilst jen tried to look interested .
they talked back and forth for over fifteen minutes .
robbie then spoke more with mrs. mcdonald and gave her some instructions .
he finally hung up the receiver and poured himself another measure of his favorite .
he confirmed that he has periodically sent stuff to gema ... ..ostensibly for her museum and that includes small amounts of antiarin toxicaria , in fact hes just in the process of putting another package together for her .
i told him there was no problem but to just go ahead .
he now knows about brenner , downer and dick .
hes really upset thats why i was so long on the phone .
he said to say to you that he will pray to semangatan and look for their spirits .
he also said hed just seen wendy .
apparently she was in to see me not realizing i was still in england .
she obviously doesnt know about her father .
shes still in bandar he thinks .
as you heard , in line with the commanders instructions , i asked mrs. mcdonald to put together an affidavit for us concerning what he had sent to england ... ..just in case we ever need something like that .
so thats that for now , im for me bed ! !
chapter 39 gema heads east gema headed east on the m40 the powerful jag pulling her towards london .
there was no way she was going to stay in hereford whilst the authorities invaded her privacy by searching both the house and the flat .
shed quickly packed a bag and left .
wendys apartment on gloucester place just behind selfridges in the west end , although small , was quite adequate for the time being , wendy being away .
the bath st. people knew full well where she was going and had no idea of her other place or so she hoped .
why should they ?
it was a chance she was going to have to take .
she fully expected to eventually receive a call from george concerning the stunning photo he had shown her .
her mind raced at the thought of meeting the person who owned the hands in the old photograph .
her mind went back to the photo .
hopefully shed given george no indication whatsoever of any sense of recognition although even now she couldnt be sure .
the whole idea was farfetched even ludicrous .
she couldnt even be sure if the photo was authentic or when it was really taken .
several cars behind her orourke keyed his mobile while rafferty was driving .
shes heading up the m40 towards london just now , he said to george , do you want us to stay with her all the way ?
thats affirmative , said george , shell be heading towards the daughters flat in the west end , stay with her .
it shouldnt be too difficult to keep an eye on her there although i might have to send you some help as that building has both a front entrance onto gloucester place and a small garden in the rear giving onto some mews .
i dont think shell bolt if she makes you , wheres she going to go anyway ?
be prepared for her to move though as eventually shes going to hear from major rowden .
fortunately shed been able to find a parking spot on gloucester place which was a stroke of luck although if she was going to be here for a few days shed have to find some 24 hour parking for the jag .
unfortunately orourke had not been so lucky and had had rafferty drop him off at a spot where he watched her key the front door of what had , at one time , been a fine georgian townhouse long converted into a number of tiny flats .
rafferty was circling the block impatiently waiting for a parking spot to open up .
even so theyd have to think of something to allow them to keep the eyes on as long as was required , he keyed the mobile again .
got a problem here george , shes in the flat but were vulnerable here .
im sticking out like a sore thumb and rafferty is still driving around looking for somewhere to park .
she couldve walked out of the back door for all i know .
ok jimmy ... .major rowden anticipated this problem .
let me know exactly where you are now .
the major is going to send one of his lads down with a small tracker and receiver .
get the tracker onto the car ... under a bumper or in a wheel well or something like that .
the receiver has a range of about a mile so get yourselves into a small hotel within range and keep an eye on her that way .
anything happens with rowden well let you know , its the best we can do .
gema had unpacked her bag and had eaten when the phone in the flat buzzed its quiet tone , she picked it up .
major rowden here , im following up on your discussion with george mudd concerning having another look at those tattoos he showed you , thought perhaps we could get together .
too fast , too fast , she thought .
ive only been here a couple of hours or so .
they must be following me ... ..but why go to the trouble ?
of course anything i can do to help , she answered .
why dont i pick you up in the morning then ?
he asked .
i dont think that will work for me major , she said , im going to be round and about tomorrow as i have a few errands to run .
why dont i just meet you somewhere ... ... ... ... .ideally a tube station , crazy to try and drive around in london .
david thought for a moment , georges fellas are keeping an eye on her , shouldnt be a problem .
ok then ... .ill pick you up at the totteridge lane tube station ... thats up the northern line .
how about two oclock tomorrow afternoon ?
thatll work well for me , she said , see you then .
she stood in the window thoughtfully thinking about tomorrow and trying to make out the watchers from the passersby down below .
jimmys mobile rang on the bedside table in the small hotel just around the corner .
shell be on the move in the morning ... ... on foot ... .so keep an eye on her .
chapter 40 north london you were right , shes on the move , rafferty talked into the mobile , shes on foot , left the car in an overnight parking over on wardour st. looks like shes heading for the gym the way shes dressed .
okay , george replied , stay with her , i ll let major rowden know .
gema strode off down gloucester place .
it was almost ten oclock the local stores would be opening soon and the rush hour traffic had died down .
she assumed she was being followed but was not able to make anyone out particularly .
she remembered her fathers words ... .the issues and challenges always remain the same its only the jungle that changes .
he was a wise man !
she entered a side entrance of selfridges just as the store was opening making it extremely difficult for someone to follow her without being seen , jumped on an escalator up to the first floor , picked up a few garments in the ladies department and ducked into one of the changing booths .
she opened the gym bag she was carrying and quickly changed from the gym clothes she was wearing into a business suit and high heeled shoes .
leaving the bag in the changing room she confidently walked out , carrying a brief case , wearing thin black kid leather gloves and exited on to oxford st. through another exit .
with her heart pounding she quickly crossed oxford st. against the lights and hopped on a bus that had just drawn up .
no one got on the bus with her and there was no sudden activity in the traffic pattern .
not so difficult , she thought , either that or theyre not very good .
after half a dozen stops she got off , waved down a passing cab and set off for the holiday inn over by oxford circus .
i lost her , said rafferty into the phone , it was deliberate too .
ive no bloody idea where she went .
she either made you or just assumed she was being followed , said george , i always said she was smart .
nothing to be done now , dont sweat it , head back to the hotel , ill let everyone know , get back to you later .
gema sat in the lobby of the holiday inn facing the main entrance nursing a coffee and croissant .
she concluded she was free and clear if , in fact , she was being followed .
shed been patiently sitting there for almost an hour , after all patience was one of her strong suits .
she walked over to the hertz desk and rented a compact fiesta .
she had no choice but to use her real identity plus a credit card .
if the authorities wanted to trace her by the time they got the information it would be too late anyway .
after acquiring a street map she identified the totteridge lane tube station and set of north to her appointment with major rowden .
david sat in the unmarked car waiting for gema as the clock on the dash digitally made its way towards two oclock .
he almost didnt recognize her when she walked out of the tube station .
she looked as though she was going to the office in a smart business suit , high heels , leather gloves and carrying a black , leather briefcase .
he honked , she waved ... walked over to the pick up area and got in the passenger side of the car .
turning right on the high street and left down friern barnet lane he drove past the golf course and pulled into the driveway of the stately old house he had recently visited with george mudd and jennie .
standing on the porch he fingered the button under the speaker set into the red brick .
mrs. thompsons hollow voice responded from the speaker .
identify yourselves please .
major rowden with mrs. mason , it was arranged with the commander the door clicked open on its electronic switch and the two of them walked over to mrs. thompsons desk .
chapter 41 cctv sitting in the office in gower st. in london the commander , george and jen sat in front of the monitor , in stunned silence , watching the cctv playback from the safe house on friern barnet lane .
there were cameras in every room plus cameras outside .
one of the cameras outside showed davids car pulling into the driveway , he and gema standing by the front door , gema looking very smart and business like in a suit and carrying a briefcase .
the camera showed mrs. thompson checking in gemas briefcase and then summoning robert the guard .
the next sequence they had played at least ten times as it happened so quickly .
in a blur of action mrs. thompson was down behind the desk and robert was sliding down the wall a look of surprise on his face .
david stood in the middle of the lobby looking at gema with a look of horror .
they could see her mouth some words as there was no audio .
he put his hand in his pocket and handed her his car keys and then knelt down in front of her .
she said something else to him then laid her gloved hand on his throat and kept it there as he slid quietly to the floor .
she then looked directly at the camera and smiled wistfully ... ..she knew she was being watched .
she reached over the desk got the automatic pistol out of the centre drawer , checked roberts pulse and took his keys out of his pocket .
placing the pistol in her briefcase and using roberts keys she opened the door into the living room .
the different cameras then picked up the rest of the action .
she walked into the living room , said something to tony wei sitting in front of an electric fire .
the two of them then walked out of the house , got into davids car and drove north back up friern barnet lane .
theres going to be the hell to pay over this , said the commander , two dead , a terrorist in the wind and we just let it happen , luckily davids going to be ok , although that doesnt help either mrs. thompson or robert the minder .
jennie had wound the tape back yet again and was focused on gema as the action unfolded .
i just cant believe how fast she is , ive never seen anything like it .
they didnt have a chance , why do you suppose she left david alive ?
she had no alternative but to assume that both the old lady and robert were armed .
she knew that david was unarmed and no match for her so she had to deal with the other two first .
she had time to take care of david , said george , there are some other assumptions we can reasonably make too although now im getting a bit skeptical .
firstly she either knows shes not going to get caught or she doesnt care .
if its the latter , that makes her doubly dangerous .
she knew we would see the tapes ... ... ... ... .she looks almost apologetic .
ive already heard from gower st. , david said , theyre taking over although what they think theyre going to do i have no idea .
theyll do all the usual things ... ..put watchers on the airports , bus terminals , ports , train stations etc .
theyll put the alarm out to interpol who in turn will work with the european security groups but , george , if youre right about her not caring , its all irrelevant isnt it ?
the question is ... ..where the hell did she go ... ..and why ?
the house in hereford , the flat in london her gym and her dojo are under surveillance so she cant go there .
if she has another bolt hole were screwed .
well only be able to react to her .
we should get a watch on her credit cards and freeze her bank accounts ... .that might slow her down a bit ... ..other than that i really dont know .
chapter 42 chipping norton driving well within the speed limit in davids car gema drove up the barnet high road pulling off at the barnet tube station where she had left her rental before taking the underground the one stop south to meet david .
during the short drive tony had tried to talk to her .
shut up , dont say another word , she spat at him in malay to his surprise .
pulling into the short stay she parked close to her rental fiesta .
opening the passenger side door she told tony to sit in the seat with his hands in front of him , wrists together .
when he argued with her she took the pistol out of the briefcase and in malay , they know who i am and i doubt very much we can get out of the country in any conventional manner .
there is no advantage or disadvantage to me killing you so dont make me make the choice .
he put his wrists in front of him and she tied them up using duct tape .
if you speak i will shoot you .
if you try to get out of the car i will shoot you .
if you try to get anyones attention i will shoot you .
nod your head if you understand .
he nodded she got into the drivers side after leaving davids keys in the glove compartment of his car , started up the fiesta and drove out into the traffic .
there was little point in either george or jennie staying in london .
their prime suspect was in the wind and mi5 were now fully involved so they had driven back to eaton bishop and the security of georges home .
they were back in their favorite room with robbie and the dogs .
robbie had seen the surveillance tapes and was as amazed as the rest of them ... ..perhaps more so because of his previous relationship with gema .
he repeatedly played the tapes over and over hoping to see something that would explain the why of everything .
gower st. wants to put a security detail on me , said jennie , but i think id be better off just staying here .
perhaps i could just take a short leave of absence .
david will be down here shortly , said george , hes been released from observation and seems to be no worse for wear .
happy to be alive i think .
orourke and rafferty are back here and im going to move jimmy into the house for the time being .
when david shows up ill have him talk to the commander .
frankly i would feel a lot better about things if you stayed down here .
i thought i knew her , whispered robbie , off and on ive helped her and her girl for twenty five years .
now ive just seen her kill two innocent people without any apparent thought and , for reasons totally unknown to us , snatched a terrorist who had links to ohara and jennings .
just gives me a bloody headache .
we have to assume she killed harry and peter because of the photo she found .
im not sure why she would have killed ohara ... ... ... ... ..not that hes any great loss .
now shes in the wind and knows shes been on camera .
nothing to lose really , mission accomplished ... ... ... ... ... ... .almost .
lying in bed later that evening he rolled over to look at jen , scared ?
he asked .
a little , she said , ive never even dreamt of anything like that .
she killed two people almost effortlessly and she might be coming here .
you dont have to worry , he said , ill keep you here i dont care what your bosses say .
we have around us some of the best fighting men in the world .
theyre in and around the house .
they all have experience in multiple fields ... ..they are the best of the best , nothing to worry about .
you know i think robbie was getting a little pissed .
i was watching the bowmore going down .
one things for sure ... ..nothings ever scared him .
jen propped her head up on her hand the sheet falling off her shoulder to expose her breasts , you know i think he was more disappointed in her than anything else .
quite some time ago when things started to get really bad between her and dickie gema had rented a small house in chipping norton just south of banbury .
she had needed to get away .
quite often he thought she was off working in some far off place when in actuality she was in chipping ... ..not too far away , not because she was having affairs or anything like that , that would be to dishonor her family , but more to get away from his depression and the effect it had on her .
now in the fiesta she headed west on the north circular to pick up the m40 that would take her to banbury and finally to chipping norton .
it was already getting dark .
by the time she arrived it would be pitch black and there were no street lights .
she had the radio tuned into a 24 hour news station just in case there was anything about the activities in barnet although she doubted it ... ..after all it was supposed to be a safe house ... ... ... ... ... not that safe she thought to herself .
tony sat quietly in the passenger seat , must have made an impression , she thought .
eventually she turned south on the banbury road with only another twenty minutes to go .
it was by now completely dark with thick cloud cover , which suited her purpose .
finally she turned into the driveway of a rather isolated house and , operating the garage door opener she had in her pocket , she drove straight into the garage and closed the door behind them .
she sat in the pitch black of the garage .
let me repeat myself , she said in malay , if you do anything that i deem incorrect i will shoot you .
nobody knows where we are and neither do you .
the house is isolated and quiet .
you will sit quietly in that seat until i tell you to move .
nod your head if you understand .
tony nodded his head .
for now she held all the cards ... ... whoever she might be .
leaving him sitting she got out of her side and unlocked the door from the garage to the kitchen .
she made him stand up , undid his belt and pulled his trousers down around his ankles .
shuffle into the kitchen , she said .
pulling a kitchen chair out from under the table she made him sit down .
leaning against the kitchen counter she threw two plastic ties into his lap .
tie your ankles to the chair legs , she said conversationally .
do it yourself bitch , he hissed at her in malay .
at least youve answered one question for me , she said .
like lightening she was across the space between them and swiped him across the ear with the heavy automatic pistol .
the chair and tony crashed to the floor accompanied by his yell of pain .
please get up and tie your ankles to the chair legs tony ... ... i really dont want to have to hurt you again over such a minor thing .
theres a good boy , as he did as he was told .
she took more tape out of a kitchen drawer and taped him around the chest to the chair , he couldnt move ... ... ... ... ..he could hardly breathe .
before i make us some tea theres one other thing i think i should do in case theres any mess .
she disappeared into the garage and came back a few moments later with a large folded tarp .
she pulled the table out of the way and spread the tarp on the floor .
with difficulty she heaved tony on the chair into the centre of the tarp .
thats a lot better , she said , i hate the thought of having to clean up .
now well have some tea , weve had a rather exciting day .
chapter 43 family david arrived the following morning looking none the worse for wear .
the dogs announced his arrival but only after the call from the main gate and an ongoing progress report of the guards stationed in and around the property .
terry had the kitchen set up like an observation post and was online with each sensor on the property and in contact with each guard .
place looks nice and quiet and pastoral , said david settling in the drawing room with a cuppa brought in by marjorie .
dinna kid yoursel , muttered robbie , place is like a bloody fortress .
she never had any intention of killing me you know .
she said to tell everyone shes sorry .
she told me it wouldnt hurt , that i would just go to sleep for a while .
they found my car and the keys up in barnet in the tube parking .
she must have had another car stashed up there .
shes thought everything out .
she said to me ... ..when all this is over have paan look at the tattoos .
it will explain everything .
ive no idea what shes talking about .
i do , said george .
firstly the fact that she gave you the message and didnt send it to either robbie or myself means shes coming after us .
shes referring to paan an old border scout of ours .
hes penan but understands these things .
secondly ... ..she doesnt expect to live through it .
jesus ... ..whats going on ?
gema spent the night in the kitchen wide awake exerting mind over matter .
there would be plenty of time for sleep later .
tony slept intermittently his head falling to his chest .
as the sun came up she closed the blinds on the small kitchen window plunging the room back into darkness .
out of the briefcase which she had brought in from the car she took half a dozen candles placed them on the table and lit them with some difficulty due to the thin leather gloves she still wore .
to tonys amazement she placed in front of the candles a small white skull , a small pile of pebbles and a wooden bowl .
the candles flickered giving the whole scene a macabre look .
she knelt in front of the table and began to pray in a language that seemed vaguely familiar but which he didnt understand .
she started to sway , as though to an unseen drum .
she came to her feet and , in rhythm to the drum in her head , removed her jacket , shirt and bra .
she swayed in front of him almost trancelike .
the sweat beaded and rolled down between her breasts .
she held her gloved hands , palms together and continued to pray .
she moved out of his line of sight and he could hear the rustling .
when she came back in front of him she was quite naked .
he couldnt help but gasp at the sight of her magnificent body .
she writhed sinuously in front of him , her gloved hands like serpents in front of his face .
he could almost hear the drum that was obviously sounding in her head .
the sweat poured off her and dripped onto his knees as she danced right in front of him .
slowly one by one she removed the thin , kid leather gloves from her hands and then squatted in front of him almost touching his knees .
she turned her hands out , palms to her own face .
welcome susilo my brother , she whispered in butak .
tonys eyes rolled back in his head as he fainted .
hours later she had showered , made herself some breakfast and changed back into a sweat suit and trainers that she had upstairs in her bedroom .
her body glowed from the searing heat of the shower and her hair still glistened , she felt at peace with herself and thankful to her god semangatan for leading her to the truth .
tony slumped in the chair .
he had refused anything to eat and the stink of fear was around him .
she had taken an hour to explain to him what had occurred after he left the village , whilst the wintry sun climbed in the sky .
she had refused him the opportunity to speak and had had to remind him of that request a couple times much to his discomfort .
the fact that you no longer understand butak is to your dishonor so i shall speak to you in malay .
however there is now a change to our agreement .
if you dissatisfy me i most certainly will not shoot you but i will hurt you in the tradition of the kayan and the orang ulu , nod if you understand .
he nodded .
i have had twenty years to conclude what happened to our mother , our father , our grandparents and the rest of our clan at long alat .
i have seen photographs of both my father and grandfather lying dead on the soah .
i have seen a photograph of their grave .
i have brought myself peace concerning the other people in the photographs .
i have visited their very grave and prayed to semangatan for them .
the terrorists needed a guide .
long alat was unknown to the outside world .
only someone that knew could guide them up the river .
only someone that knew could advise them of the best way to attack the village , that someone could only be you .
for years i wondered who it could possibly be .
that question was answered the moment i saw the photograph of your hands .
for that , my brother , you must pay .
semangatan and the spirits of my ancestors and parents demand that kayan honor be maintained .
tradition requires that you pay the penalty and the penalty be handed out by your closest relative .
that is me my brother , thanks to your dishonor i am your only relative !
the parang whistled through the air , a silver blur in the darkened room .
his head jumped off his shoulders and rolled on the floor with an obscene thump the eyes staring as though in surprise .
blood spurted up out of his neck to be caught by the tarp .
twenty years later it is done , she thought , my honor and the honor of my family is reinstated .
now what will be will be , it doesnt matter anymore .
chapter 44 hereford shes back !
shes in the flat in hereford , i saw her in the window , the watcher reported on his mobile .
her jag is still in london though , said david , its still in the parking on wardour st. theres a blue fiesta in the courtyard .
is she on her own ?
asked david .
i dont know , said the watcher , i didnt see anyone arrive .
i was in the copse at the back of the house , you cant see the courtyard from there .
suddenly there she was ... .in the window .
dont do anything at all , ordered david , im bringing in a special forces team .
shes killed at least five that i know of , no need to risk anyone else .
withdraw to a spot where you can eyes on the vehicle .
ill call you once we are in position .
an hour later an assault team had been sent down from credenhill joined by david rowden , george and robbie .
they had taken up positions around the house .
should we give her the opportunity to come out quietly ?
said george , or do we just go in guns blazing ?
well give her the chance , said david , ill call her .
might be better coming from me , said george .
the phone rang for quite some time .
yes , she answered .
gema ... .its me george .
we know everything .
were outside ... robbie , david , myself and a complete sas team .
its almost like full circle , please come out .
she was quiet for a while .
george ... ..i am first and foremost kayan .
i have done what i set out to do .
semangatan is satisfied .
the honor of the kayan and my family is satisfied .
it is done .
paan can explain .
it was my brother !
there was the sound of a shot and the rattling of the phone as it hit the floor .
the scene upon entering the flat would be seared on his brain .
it might fade with time but , with a little scratching , would easily come to the surface .
the magnificent room was softly lit by the lamps in the corners .
the expanse of teak floor gleamed like it had been recently oiled .
spread eagled in the middle of the floor was the totally naked , headless body of susilo .
on the altar at the far end of the room the skull and pebbles had been replaced .
the small wooden bowl was back in place as was the little black drumstick .
in front of the altar , on the floor , the woven basket held the head of susilo the eyes staring in surprise ... ... . to one side the blood stained parang .
she had fallen on the bedroom floor , mrs. thompsons gun and the phone close by .
she was dressed in traditional kayan dress .
she had placed the pistol in her mouth and pulled the trigger .
her magnificent body seemed relaxed on the floor her beautiful face forever marred by the 9mm bullet .
chapter 45 a jog at brecon its over darling , said george , the only positive thing to come out of the whole mess is that i met you .
yes but five people died in the process , she replied i have to believe they would have died anyway im sorry to say , he said .
orourke and his crew have gone back to ireland .
im convinced terrys sorry its all over , he was enjoying the excitement .
robbies going to hang around for a few days then hell be going back to brunei .
so itll be back to business as usual i think .
she got up off the couch , poked the fire and threw on another log .
i think im going to find that just being a copper in hereford is going to be a bit boring now , she said .
i was going to talk to you about that , he said .
why dont you just quit your job , marry me and well live happily ever after ?
i thought you liked me just for my red hair and other attributes , she said laughing .
seriously , he said , will you marry me , jen ?
you dont necessarily have to quit your job but you would make me very happy if you were to accept .
theres someone i would have to ask first , she said .
ive already asked her , he replied , she said it would be okay .
robbie before you scoot back to bandar howd you like to drive down to brecon ?
last time we were there everything went sideways .
sounds fun to me georgie , havent been there in years .
maybe we could do that little run down by the waterfall ?
yea we could do that rob .
jen and i walked down there when we were there .
we can stay at the brecon castle again ... ... love that place .
they drove down , the two old friends , the land rover easily eating up the miles and echoing to the banter and laughter of two old comrades .
george managed to get the same room as last time remembering the huge four poster bed , and jen in it .
robbie took a pleasant single overlooking the river .
they set off the following morning .
the day was cool but not threatening , the high clouds scudding across the pale blue sky .
the river and streams were high as the spring runoff had begun .
they maintained an easy pace running easily along the well worn path .
it was only about twelve miles with none of the going really hard , however they couldnt lose sight of the fact that they were both in their mid forties now and perhaps not as fit as they would like .
it was pleasantly quiet the silence only broken by the pounding of their feet , the sound of their breathing and the blackbirds in the woods to the left .
for the first few miles the trail was wide enough for them to run abreast but as the path neared the first waterfall george surged ahead as the trail narrowed .
slowly the silence was broken by the roar of the waterfall in full flood .
the rock face reared up to their right as the pine forest closed in on their left .
robbie felt a stitch coming on and slowed watching george move further ahead .
too much of that bowmore , he thought , i either get myself in shape or start to recognize my limitations .
the pain of the stitch bent him over as he came to a standstill .
he stood there as his breathing returned to normal .
the dart took him high on the left shoulder .
he hardly felt it it being so sharp .
he looked at it in amazement and tried to call out to george .
his voice only came out as a croak and , as he fell to the ground at the foot of the rock face , he saw a shadowy dark shape come out from the trees on his left and then the darkness .
george sensed that robbie was no longer behind him .
he looked back and saw nothing .
he turned around and jogged back the way he had come expecting robbie to come around the corner at any moment .
rounding the corner he saw robbie lying motionless in the middle of the trail and a tall figure just standing there looking down at the body .
he quietly approached the two , his runners quiet on the trail .
slowly the figure turned around .
he was dressed completely in black with a black balaclava hiding his features , black combat boots on his feet ... black gloves .
the figure came at him in a lightening blur of speed .
it felt as though a jack hammer hit him in the chest as a boot hit him below the heart .
he couldnt get his breath , his whole chest felt paralyzed .
he tried to get into a defensive posture but a blow from the side of a gloved hand almost paralyzed his arm .
he sank to one knee his vision blurred by the pain in his chest and arm .
the attacker was tall and seemed to be just standing there appraising him .
george stayed on the one knee gathering himself , the feeling slowly coming back to his arm .
he stood up slowly holding his arm and looked at his attacker who was closer now .
the startling blue eyes glared at him out of the balaclava .
wendy mason , he whispered .
she reached up and pulled the balaclava off her head exposing her auburn hair .
it never was my mother , she said , it was always me .
my familys honor demanded vengeance .
your team killed my grandparents and the rest of my family .
robbie died easily and painlessly as did the other two .
ohara was simple opportunity , he drowned , now its your turn .
george hung his head .
he knew he couldnt fight her .
he was fighting for breath and it felt as though at least two ribs were broken .
his arm hung useless at his side .
he thought of jen and his dogs and knew he would never see them again .
he looked back at robbie crumpled in the middle of the path .
she took a deep breath and a smile of anticipation covered her face as she wound up for the killing blow .
george knew there was nothing he could do ... ... . at least the sun was shining and he could hear the blackbirds .
the shotgun blast took her square in her side and threw her across the path like a rag doll .
he looked at her , holding his arm and breathing shallowly ... ... ... she was close to death .
he knelt by her side and said quietly , you are dying and it is wasted .
the indonesians killed your family ... ... ... all my team did was have the decency to give your family a proper burial .
a tear rolled down her cheek as the life faded from her gorgeous eyes ... .her blood soaking into the mud of the welsh path .
a diminutive figure appeared out of the pine trees close by .
he was dressed in jungle fatigues , a fatigue hat on his head , his face , striped in jungle camouflage creased in a wrinkly smile ... ... ... ... ... paan ! !
he knelt by her body palms together in the traditional manner .
you were kayan ... ... but you were wrong .
he stood up , trooper mac will be okay soon , i boiled the sugar off .
i got your six boss .
nice gun , got it from your new wife !
about the author pete jackson was born in england during a war , educated in england and france during another smaller war and now lives in canada .
hes enjoyed dogs , horses and sailed boats all over the world .
married with two children and two grand children he now spends his time between writing and the golf course .
meet him on his websiteclick here .
a pirates wife revised version by lynelle clark copyright 2012 by lynelle clark published by lynelle clark at smashwords the pirates wife cover design by truth designs license notes this e book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this e book may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with .
if you are reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was purchased for your use only , then you should return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the work of this author .
the characters and events portrayed in this book are fictitious .
any similarity to real persons alive or dead is coincidental and not intended by the author .
dedication to all the authors who inspired me over the years of reading allowing me a moment of joy exploring their worlds of imagination .
especially ena murray a well known south african writer through my growing years .
the motivation for this book .
her stories left me breathless and always wanting for more .
i also want to thank my husband putting up with me and literally did all the house hold chores so that i could write .
you are a blessing .
my children i love you guys .
to mary c. findley who helped with the proof reading and polishing of this , my first book .
all the mails send between us , her patience and knowledge to improve the read much more .
what a blessing you have become .
to learn more about the author visit http www.facebook.com aspiredwriter2012 ? ref hl http lynelleclarkaspiredwriter.blogspot.com https twitter.com lynelleclark1 http www.goodreads.com user show 8713879 lynelle clark or contact her at aspiredwriter2012 gmail.com contents title copyright dedication contact details prologue chapter 1 chapter 2 chapter 3 chapter 4 chapter 5 chapter 6 chapter 7 chapter 8 chapter 9 chapter 10 chapter 11 chapter 12 chapter 13 chapter 14 chapter 15 chapter 16 chapter 17 chapter 18 chapter 19 chapter 20 chapter 21 chapter 22 authors history proverbs 1 1 33 the proverbs of solomon , son of david , king of israel to know wisdom and instruction , to understand words of insight , to receive instruction in wise dealing , in righteousness , justice , and equity to give prudence to the simple , knowledge and discretion to the youth let the wise hear and increase in learning , and the one who understands obtain guidance , ... prologue it was christmas of 1623 when six people stepped onto the dock at the harbour of lisbon , portugal .
it was a cloudless , sunny day with a definite bite of cold in the air .
people scattered around the harbour , pulling jackets tight to keep body heat in , each busy with luggage , hauling crates off various colossal wooden hull ships .
each had three masts rigged with sail and heavy tackle and supplies , ready for trade to new destinations .
sailors shouted to each other , in anger or in banter , in their usual sailor dialect , accompanied by loud and heavy thuds as the gigantic ships were either unloaded or reloaded , depending if they had arrived or were departing on a new course .
in between the shouting of the sailors , animals bellowed , clucked or whinnied , waiting for attention .
everyone raced to finish so that they could go to the already awaiting soiled doves waving seductively to the tired but aroused sailors .
their half clad bodies teased men hungry for female companionship after six months or more at sea .
no one gave the group of six passing by much thought , because they looked like ordinary citizens .
led by a tall blond man , the two women of the group were attracting a few lustful looks of unwanted characters .
the men protected them though , guiding them through the throng to a waiting carriage ready to take them to their destination .
they had lost everything of earthly value but discovered who they were as people , as human beings .
they were survivors of the vast untamed land of africa , overcoming the greatest odds against them , gaining new friends and unlikely love .
the company consisted of the giant blond sailor and his old sailor friend , the contessa who held a little girl by the hand , the sea captain , and a slave girl .
bone weary , they entered the carriage .
the blond giant closed the door behind them , tapping on the roof to signal the coach driver to move .
he wrapped the frail body of the beautiful black haired contessa qonchita in his steely arms .
rosa lee , the little girl , slept in her mothers arms .
the gentle giant gazed at her with so much love and adoration .
one thick finger caressed the soft pink cheek of the little girl he had accepted as his own .
cisco thought back to where their journey had begun .
two years ago they had embarked on a voyage from india to portugal , a supposedly easy and hassle free voyage .
but it had tested their endurance and their faith in the hand of providence and in each other .
september 12 , 1621 we have finally arrived on the ship armando on our long awaited journey .
five years i stayed in this hell hole .
finally i am leaving , a disillusioned wife and mother .
rosa lee is the only highlight of it all , born out of abuse , but a shining beacon in my life .
the sea seemed to be calm enough and captain laurenco breno assured us that our voyage would be without problems .
how he could make this statement was beyond me , since the ocean could change instantly .
i didnt like the mans beady eyes , his expression cold and stormy , with a glimmer of evil in the black depths .
his lustful eyes raked over me and i felt violated by this act .
i had to stop myself from shivering in front of this obnoxious man , and will keep my distance the entire trip .
rosa lee made a friend today .
it was the first time i saw her openly speaking to an older man as she did to the giant sailor , with such familiarity .
i hope we dont bring him any trouble .
the look of disdain from the captain towards the blond sailor was undeniably menacing .
i never saw such a big man .
his tanned , hard body stretched his white cotton shirt , his height towering over all on the boat including faro , who is not short at all .
but he was kind to rosa lee , humble in his approach .
careful , maybe , with only a slight smile on the handsome face caused by her continuous chatter .
there is something different in him .
i find myself standing close to observe him better , something i have never done with any man , not even my own husband .
faro calls me ice princess and i like to i keep it that way .
i hope i can see the sailor again .
qonchita shut the old leather bound diary , set the pen down , and crept under the soft blankets of the bed in the cabin appointed to her and rosa lee , already in a deep sleep .
she brushed the dark locks of her daughter and kissed the rosy cheeks .
i love you , she whispered to the small child , and lying back she prayed softly for a safe voyage .
september 12 , 1621 new people boarded the ship today a man and his wife and their young child .
the chatter of the little girl was interesting to say the least .
i never thought i would love this so much .
what would the fellows say if they hear about this ?
big cisco almaida falling for a little girl like that .
she stood next to her mother , a stunning woman with dark hair and dark smouldering eyes .
the eyes were shadowed as if to hide something deeper .
she was not happy , even if she was married to the rich merchant .
faro iagos reputation preceded him .
how could she be married to that scoundrel , who was so far beneath her ?
the man clearly did not appreciate her or his daughter .
how many times have i wished for a wife and child of my own ?
like this man had .
after nineteen years on this ship it was only a dream , but the little girl did something today .
she touched a very deep desire for a family of my own .
maybe even a piece of land where i could retire .
an impossible dream for any hardened sailor .
can i be so bold to continue this dream ?
cisco sighed and closed his eyes .
the hammock swayed with the gentle movements of the ocean .
a sway he hardly noticed anymore .
he touched his fingers to his forehead , then to each side of his chest , and prayed silently to the god he had learned to trust above anything else .
trapped in a marriage arranged by her father with a cold hearted older man , faro iago , qonchita had no way to escape .
the business transaction had been profitable to both parties .
faro did not care for her or for his four year old daughter .
the fragile lady admired cisco .
since they had boarded faro iago had made a beeline for the captains cabin which housed the best of everything , including fine whiskey .
immediately drawn to the gentle giant , the little girl , spitting image of her mother , accepted him first as a friend , and then as her new father .
daily rosa lee would seek him out with qonchita always close by and under much scrutiny of captain breno .
september 13 , 1621 again we spent time with cisco today .
rosa lee simply can not leave him alone .
at first he was reluctant to encourage her , tending to his work at hand .
but her constant chatter put a smile on his face and by lunch he talked to her softly .
i could see his eyes were always seeking the captain .
i found faro with some of the sailors gambling and it made me uneasy but i said nothing to him and spent my time with rosa lee .
there are quite a number of people on the ship .
i understand we are three hundred and forty eight people in all , with slaves numbering two hundred .
the captain told me it was quite a large number but bragged his vessel was capable of carrying the load .
with the slaves in confinement in the hold of the ship the deck is not overcrowded but i wonder how they fair down there in this heat .
i can only hope that we will be well and that the lords protection will be with us daily .
september 14 , 1621 the little girls continuous chatter and seeking me out are getting me in trouble .
the captain warned me today for the final time .
he is within his rights of course .
as a sailor i know this .
but how can i ignore her ?
she is a pleasure to have around .
and her mother he smiled thinking of the raven head is gorgeous but i have to keep my distance .
i can see she is interested as well but this could never be .
she is married , a lady of good means .
i am just a sailor .
i can offer her nothing .
but i can dream , even if it is futile .
i know it is silly but the feelings she invokes in me make me feel worthy to love and to dream of a family of my own .
alfonso warned me that the men are talking , that they have seen the looks we give each other .
i dont want to bring her trouble .
she is too much of a lady for riff raff to speak of her in that fashion .
i will have to keep my distance .
i should work on the mast where the little girl can not find me .
i will have to speak to tanur tomorrow .
september 15 , 1621 cisco was on the mast today .
never once did he come down from there to speak with rosa lee .
even when she called out to him he did not look at her .
i could see that it hurt her but i had to explain to her that he has to do his work .
he is a sailor and can not spend time with her .
but i do miss him .
faro tried to talk to us today , but he was drinking and rosa lee was scared of him .
he swayed on his feet , his eyes bloodshot .
i heard there was trouble with the game and the captain warned him to be careful around the sailors .
i saw some of the slaves today .
met a young indian girl .
her name is kayla .
we got to talk for a while before she had to go back into the hold .
rosa lee also liked her .
she was very beautiful and several sailors looked at her .
i was uneasy at her common flirting with them while we talked .
in the future i will be careful of her and the company she keeps .
september 16 , 1621 i bumped into the lady today .
it was by pure accident since i keep my distance , but when i touched her i could not let her go .
after the initial shock passed and she realized who held her she relaxed in my arms .
for a few seconds i could only enjoy the lady in my arms .
she fits perfectly .
she is more beautiful up close .
i had to struggle not to kiss her and i could see she wanted me to .
that would be a mistake .
i know it is wrong but i can not help myself .
the feelings i have for her are growing daily .
i will have to work harder to avoid her as much as possible .
a sailor and a lady are absolutely unsuited .
it can never happen .
september 16 , 1621 i can not believe i was in his arms today .
he smelled of the ocean , clean and fresh .
he was strong and enormous in size but i fit perfectly .
those seconds were wonderful , i wish i could have more .
it felt so right , although it was wrong .
my heart nearly beat out of my chest and i wished he had kissed me but he was right .
it could never happen .
i am a married woman .
there is no future for us .
september 17 , 1621 what is that woman up to ?
today i walked hand in hand with rosa lee on the upper deck and kayla was there .
she spoke with cisco .
my cisco , her hand on his arm .
did he welcome it ?
oh please god .
dont let him turn out to be just another man who wants to bed me , only to run off again .
i can not take that .
rosa lee wrapped herself around his leg the moment she saw him .
the captain was not pleased .
i saw the fury raging in his eyes .
then i saw the pleading in ciscos eyes before he looked away .
i removed her from him immediately , but that left him in the presence of kayla and for some reason the woman laughed at me .
i am a lady of noble birth , my upbringing beyond reproach .
am i now in contest with a slave ?
for the love of a sailor .
september 18 , 1621 this day started so well and ended in disaster .
the look in the captains eyes said so much .
and then there is the lady .
she found me talking to that slave girl .
she merely walked up to me and started to introduce herself to me while she placed her hand on my arm .
she looked at me as if i were her last hope .
i saw the disappointment , the hurt on the ladys face .
but i could not talk to her .
to make matters worse the little girl refused to let go of me and cried when the mother took her away .
captain breno saw everything and his eyes spit fire .
i have been warned .
what will happen tomorrow ?
september 19 , 1621 today was an unpleasant day on the ship .
the captain worked cisco almost to death .
i heard the men talking .
he received no water or food for the day and under the scorching sun it had to be unbearable .
i wanted to offer him water at least but another sailor stopped me .
cisco avoided me and rosa lee cried .
the captain and faro sneered down at him while they talked about me , as if i am a common whore .
how could faro do this to me ?
i felt so ashamed .
some of the sailors laughed at me .
the man who stopped me asked me to leave the deck because i would make matters worse for cisco .
it was hard to leave him there .
tired , thirsty and lonely .
rosa lee cried once again when i took her below and when i passed the compartment in the hull where the slaves were held kayla laughed openly at me .
i felt betrayed at her actions .
it is all my fault .
i can not give in and make matters worse for him .
i explained to my four year old daughter but i doubt she understood .
she missed cisco .
that was all there was to it .
but i will have to watch her .
i can not allow him to suffer on account of us .
september 21 , 1621 today alfonso , ciscos friend , the man who stopped me when i wanted to offer him water , helped us to have a few minutes of privacy on the deck .
it was short but worth it .
i simply had to see him .
i had to know if he was okay .
the last two days the captain made him slave away while everyone snickered behind his back .
how could they do this to this man ?
he is a gentle , kind and loving man .
how could they treat him like that ?
but i had to make sure he was okay .
i had to , before i would finally let go of him .
i begged him to kiss me and at first he was hesitant .
i pressed myself against him and turned my face upward , stretching as high as i could .
he was so tall that even if i stood on my tiptoes i could not reach his face .
for a long minute he fought it .
i saw the hesitation , the fight for control , but eventually he lowered his head and we kissed for the first time .
it was everything i hoped it would be .
that one kiss held promises of a future we both knew was futile to hope for .
but that kiss told me what he felt .
he felt the same .
his breath was warm on my face as his eyes raked over mine .
he did not conceal the look of love as he whispered my name .
it all told me that he felt the same way .
in that few minutes we allowed ourselves the time to dream , to hope , to love .
i love him .
the emotion swept me from my feet , but i was not startled about it .
it was a peace that settled deep within me and i know that this is the man i have lost my heart to .
i have no remorse in loving cisco almaida .
september 21 , 1621 it was a mistake .
i shouldnt have kissed her .
but how can i resist the one woman i truly love ?
she loves me .
that was the most pleasurable wonderful thing that has ever happened to me .
this lady , a woman of noble birth , loves me , an ordinary sailor man .
she was worried about me .
she kept on repeating that she would do whatever she could to make my life easier .
but we both know it was a not to be .
captain breno is a stern and vicious man .
he seldom listens to anyone .
nor does he take advice from a woman , even one as highborn as qonchita .
what a beautiful name .
it suits her .
in my arms today she was far from the ice queen others have called her .
i love her .
september 22 , 1621 rosa lee was hard to control today and with all the strength she had she fought against me to be with cisco .
i could not blame her .
that is where i want to be .
in his arms .
i can still feel them around me still feel the touch of his lips .
when she got away from me she ran up to him and held him as if her life depended on it .
she refused to let go , even with gentle urging from him .
she cried so loud that it drew everyones attention .
captain breno made it plain he was not impressed with her innocent display .
when i finally did get her away i pleaded for ciscos life .
i was sure the vicious man was going to do something to him .
but he said he would not harm his own crew .
i really hoped that was the case .
but when i tried to get ciscos attention he refused to look at me .
i am afraid for him .
faro made an attempt after that to console rosa lee , but she was so scared of him that she sobbed and panicked to get away .
he was not pleased about her open disdain towards him .
he slapped her and dropped her on the deck .
every eye was on us .
i felt so ashamed .
alfonso came and helped me with her and led me to our cabin .
cisco disappeared and faro went back to the captains cabin , no doubt .
the next day i heard the rumours that some of the slave girls entertained them during the night .
one woman , robust and ample in her curves , sneered at me today .
high and mighty , she looked down at me as if i am beneath her .
her dress revealed everything .
her yellow teeth were a sharp contrast against her pale skin .
she reeked of alcohol and tobacco , faros favorite vices besides women .
no doubt she was one of the favorites .
how could he embarrass me like this ?
he has no respect for me or rosa lee .
i saw kayla again , briefly .
she looked down at me and refused to speak to me .
what i did to her i dont know .
september 22 , 1621 i can not believe what i saw today .
the captain flogged cisco like an animal .
my heart was ripped in pieces as i watched in horror , that giant of a man sprawled out against the ropes and flogged like a common criminal .
they all laughed and joked about him , and like the man i know he is , he took it silently .
his skin split open as blood seeped from his wounds .
he was covered in his own blood from the shoulders down .
how could he endure it ?
i tried to run to him but someone held me back .
sobs wracked through me as he arched in pain when the salt water splashed over him .
he roared in agony and four men carried him away .
he was limp between them .
he had to be unconscious .
when i wanted to go to him the captain refused my request .
how can i sit here and know that he is in pain ?
i must do something .
i need to find away .
i am just glad that rosa lee did not witness this brutality .
my heart aches for her and for him .
she searched for him all day but i simply had no heart to tell her the truth .
it would break her heart .
september 23 , 1621 finally alfonso managed to get me to cisco .
when i reached him he had a high fever .
i brought some ointment and tended his wounds .
he was delirious , calling out my name .
i made him as comfortable as i could .
for a long time i sat next to him and watched as he slept .
several times i calmed him down when the fever induced dreams made him want to get out of the bed .
the moment i spoke to him and told him how much i love him he was peaceful and slept .
i wanted to stay but alfonso convinced me it would not be wise for the captain to find me there .
at least i know he will be all right tonight .
alfonso promised me he will stay close and let me know if anything changes .
i miss cisco .
september 26 , 1621 today the sea was stormy .
the clouds formed over us , dark and menacing .
but at least cisco is better .
he had his first meal in three days .
alfonso assured me he would be all right .
i could only see him for short intervals in the last few days .
alfonso guarded the door at all times .
cisco is strong .
i know that .
but i cleaned and tended the wounds the best i could .
soon he will be up .
i actually loved this time .
i could attend to him and touch him often .
i know i love him .
somehow i will find a way to be with him always .
but i must admit the weather has me worried .
even the captain is not his usual confident self .
i really hope the ship will hold up .
it took a while to get rosa lee to sleep .
the motion of the ship where more fierce than what we are used to .
it rolls from side to side , the upper decks swaying into the waves .
my stomach churns with every motion .
oh lord , keep us safe .
help us to find a way to be together .
1 december 25 , 1623 it has been two years since our journey of survival began in africa .
two years since i have written anything down in my diary , the only book i was able to save on that hopeless night of september 29 , 1621 .
but before i capture those terrible events , i want to pen down my loves reaction to the estate we will be living in for the rest of our lives .
in the end it became possible for us to be together .
the price was high but we have survived and i know with cisco at my side i can face anything else .
as a christmas gift i gave him full ownership of my estate .
it has been handed down from generation to generation of artiagas .
i knew he would be the perfect land owner to continue the legacy my family started , and that my inheritance was safe .
when rosa lee climbed on his lap to give him a big wet kiss he smiled down at her and gave her a bear hug .
the last few days he had been extremely emotional .
we both felt a deep compassion for him .
i feel proud to know this man , my husband , cisco almaida .
when i handed him the papers he was shocked .
disbelief shone clear in the blue depths of his eyes .
he had the same expression when we first arrived two days ago .
he could not believe the large estate or the castle , built by my great great grandfather all those years ago .
when we arrived cisco only stared at the estate , the manicured gardens and lawns only yellow due to the cold weather , and i had to encourage him to step into the castle as man of the house .
this was more than he ever dreamed of .
his mind was stunned and dumbfounded at the magnitude of the riches he faced .
i had told him about the place , to prepare him , but i knew he would only appreciate it fully when he saw it .
he stood in the enormous foyer of the castle and gaped in awe .
the magnificent wooden staircase spiralled to the upper levels .
the black and white marble tiles gleamed in the late sunlight .
fires were already laid all through the house , for which we were grateful .
the staff had done a magnificent work in maintaining the place while we were gone .
he felt overwhelmed by it all until rosa lee reached for his hand and walked with him to the parlour with its exquisite furniture , tapestries and golden framed paintings of past generations .
she chattered nonstop , even if it was her first visit .
but the difference was she is used to these riches and he was not .
after we settled in , he walked the estate over the next two days , and i showed him the inheritance .
surrounded with a rapid flowing river with tree lines on both sides , the castle looked impressive , built out of stones and brick , standing three stories tall in the portugal sun .
each room was filled with generations worth of treasures heavy hand crafted furniture , art , and family portraits , tapestries bought in india , china , spain and africa , rich in colour , hung on the walls .
at first , he could not comprehend the papers , or his new title as land owner .
he struggled for words this morning , but accepted the responsibilities as property owner .
this was a difficult time for portugal .
the country was in a transitional phase and landowners were often unfair dictators .
but i knew he was wise and would treat his people with respect and kindness .
he would give them what was fair , distributing our wealth for the benefit of all .
cisco is willing to learn .
his good , kind heart draws people closer .
already he and franco , the manager of the estate , have a close friendship .
his first lesson was to learn to ride his horse , another present from rosa lee .
she was so excited when the horse was presented to him that she giggled with pure joy .
his face lit up in childlike wonder at the powerfully muscled black stallion .
when he approached the animal the horse responded in like fashion .
it took us a while to get him back in the house .
what a delight the day has been .
alfonso will leave soon on the ship cisco received from the d.e.i.c .
for his brave efforts during the last two years .
kayla and derek will leave for their new home in spain and the house will become ours alone .
there are so many things i still want to show him .
i can hardly wait .
but tonight i will give him his greatest gift when i reveal my pregnancy to him .
i just know this will leave him speechless .
it was the year 1641 on the south coast of portugal .
the lone figure of a young woman looked over the vast blue sea .
a breeze rippled playfully on the waters surface .
to her it spelt trouble , haunting her thoughts with what ifs , reliving the past as if it were just yesterday , crystal clear in her mind .
every day for the last two weeks she had looked at the horizon , hoping to see her fathers well known merchant ship with his ensign flag appear .
but there was no sign .
the foreboding feelings accumulated again within her heart , making her anxious and troubled .
while she waited she read her parents diaries , a present for her eighteenth birthday , and her most treasured possessions in the whole world , for the umpteenth time .
the leather bound books were soft under her touch , the papers already yellowing .
she had read them so often that she knew them by heart , but still they evoked in her a sense of belonging .
they held her past but also her future .
at twenty four she knew her future would be colourful and beautiful .
she felt safe when reading the pages , and knew if they had made it , she would make it as well .
coming on the ship was her eagerly awaited younger brother , only sixteen years of age .
he had been so excited about his first voyage as a sailor that they could hardly stay in the same house with him .
their father had taught them all about the sea since they could understand and walk .
he had taught them to read the stars at night , to read charts , navigating their own way .
he sent them on the ship for countless lessons lessons they never tired of .
pedro always had a bigger love for the sea .
he was more like their father in his kind heartedness , and was a gentle giant with dark blond hair .
he was more excited about the lifestyle of a sailor , exploring new countries , loving the openness of the seas .
their father told the stories of his adventures and especially the time she , rosa lee , and their mother had met him .
he was still a sailor then , and the tale included the two years it took them to get back to portugal after leaving india , where their journey had begun and rosa lee had been born .
as a birthday gift , her father had given pedro the position of cabin boy to captain alfonso , his good friend , to go out to india .
he went away for seven months , and by her fathers calculations , he should have already been back .
her other brother manuel was the farmer .
he inherited the love of the land and its people from his mother .
he also looked like their father in build , but his skin and hair were darker , like rosa lees and her mothers .
manuel had a gentle and caring heart that made him loveable and accessible to the villagers .
at the tender age of eighteen , he was already a leader .
the people looked up to him and along with their father he built up the estate and expanded the business .
rosa lee knew that this delay in pedros safe return was hard on her mother and father .
not knowing his whereabouts was difficult but they could only remain calm , waiting .
the mood tensed in their home as her father paced the passageways of the castle , anxious and nervous .
finally , on sunday afternoon of the second week , rosa lee saw sails heading their way .
shading her eyes , she squinted as she watched the sails coming nearer to the shore at a tormentingly slow rate .
rosa lee could now see that it was the contra o vento .
the smaller frigate usually accompanied the merchant ship as extra security .
it was faster and streamlined , not her fathers bulky merchant ship .
dread filled her heart as she watched the sailors running around on the deck , furling the sails to dock in the harbour .
the ensign on the top of the main mast certainly was her fathers crest .
cisco almaida was a merchant working for the d.e.i.c .
he received his first ship eighteen years ago after serving at the sea for nineteen years as a sailor .
it was a reward for his bravery and leadership during that fatal voyage where her biological father had passed away along with two hundred and sixty four crewmembers , slaves and passengers .
gathering the cream fabric of her skirt in her hands she ran down the road to the harbour to meet the captain of the ship she recognized .
she was hoping that it would be good news about her brother but the sense of dread did not leave her small body as her chestnut hair streamed behind her , her small oval face wary and troubled .
the months of waiting in anticipation of pedro had been too long .
they stayed a close knit family , especially mother , father and herself , but the two boys who had not yet had adventures did not understand the dangerous side of sailing ships .
it sounded foreign and distant to them , just stories they had heard all their lives .
but rosa lee and her parents knew how quickly things could change on the sea .
they had lived on it and had survived its worst .
pedro was still very young , inexperienced about life .
rosa lees dress whipped against her legs as she ran down the shoreline into the town , her lungs burning with the unusual exercise .
today she did not see the splendour of the sea or land , the birds flying just over the top of her head .
she did not notice the familiar faces , townspeople who waved at her and flashed toothy smiles .
she just wanted to find out any news .
with only the contra o vento coming in she was worried .
when she reached the berth , the captain stood on the bridge at the side , peering through the tackle works , deep in thought .
as the plank lowered onto the pier she had a sinking feeling that something was very wrong that life as she knew it is about to change .
captain , any news ?
she shouted .
visible sorrow marked the older mans tanned face along with tired lines from long and hard days on the sea .
yes child , i have news , but it is not good news , i am afraid .
with short , uneven steps he descended the plank .
his normally immaculate dress was crinkled and filthy a grey , unkempt beard shadowed his thin cheek bones .
as he reached her he swallowed , avoiding her at first , and then reached for her hands , his voice filled with sorrow .
you will have to be very strong for your parents .
he patted her hands as if to comfort her .
this news is not good .
come , let us go to them .
i will speak to all of you .
panic gripped rosa lees heart .
what can be so terrible ?
she looked up at him .
captain jean le blanc was around her fathers age with dark blue eyes and black hair , grey visible all around his head .
normally he was a very proud man , shoulders straight , his voice strong as a captains should be .
now he walked as if he were in pain , sounding out of breath and speaking as if it gave him great pain to talk .
looping her hand in his arm , she walked next to him , supporting him .
she tried to convince him to talk to her , to find out more detail but he was silent all the way .
as they walked away , dark ochre eyes framed in thick black lashes followed them with a curious fixation on the chestnut coloured head of the young woman and the bodice of the cream dress clinging to her body , outlining it perfectly .
the owner of the eyes squinted the left one as he framed the small waist in the air with his fingers , and thought , perfect .
jumping down off a barrel in one swift motion , he followed them at a slow pace .
staying in the shadows , he pulled his black hat low over his eyes and wrapped a heavy black cloak around his lean body to conceal any identifying features of his clothing .
his silver sword sheathed alongside his narrow hip thudded against a knee height black boot .
as they walked to the castle captain jeans pace was slow , as if he had to think about each step he took , and he still sounded out of breath .
are you well , captain ?
concerned , rosa lees dark brown eyes rested on him .
yes , dear , i will be fine once we reach your fathers house .
he gave her a sloppy smile .
cant i get the carriage ?
it will be more comfortable .
no , dear , we are almost there .
i am use to hardships .
dont worry about me .
patting her hand as she held onto him , the captain looked ghastly .
as they reached the castle , he hesitated to go through the heavy doors but continued , sweat pearling on his forehead , definitely weaker from the walk , breathless and pale .
finally , standing before her father , he handed him a letter .
with shaking hands he said , cisco , my dear friend .
he clipped every word , taking a breath between each .
i dont know how to give this news to you .
shame filled his countenance as rosa lee squeezed his hand , and his smile at her was grim .
i feel i have failed you , not only as a friend , but as an employee .
cisco reached out to his friend , troubled sombreness on his face , taking the letter , first looking at the white , folded sheet , then back at his friend .
jean what is going on ?
are you in pain ?
come , sit down , my friend .
as her father helped captain jean sit down rosa lee saw that blood seeped beneath his jacket from his upper leg and dripped onto the tiled floor .
father !
the captain is wounded , look !
she cried out in distress , kneeling in front of him and spreading the jacket .
his black pants were stained with blood , the metallic scent filling their noses .
cisco put the letter down and reached him in one stride .
he crouched next to rosa lee , his towering body warm and reassuring and his voice steady .
let me look at that leg .
his piercing eyes dropped first to his friends leg then stared up at him .
what has happen to you , jean ?
it is a long story , my friend .
i dont know if i will be able to tell you .
it hurts me too much .
i have failed you , you and your family .
how did you fail me , jean ?
you dont make any sense .
calm down and tell us what is going on .
is it about pedro ?
and where is alfonso ?
yes , it is pedro , and i hope he is still alive .
when i left him at the isle of saint marie , he was barely alive .
alfonso died trying to defend pedro from being captured by the pirates .
they could hear the sharp intake of breath as qonchita walked in .
they all paled .
what about pedro and pirates ?
she looked at cisco , panic filling her dark brown eyes .
cisco , what is going on ?
she looked at her husband and then at jean , who was very pale , drops of blood forming a pool at his booted foot .
rosa lee , please send for the doctor at once , dear , said qonchita .
she stayed calm as she knelt before their friend .
yes , mother .
rosa lee rushed out the door and straight into the arms of franco , their horse handler .
franco , we need the doctor here at once !
please get him .
there is no time to waste !
yes , maam !
francos stallion stood nearby grazing .
he was a dark brown colour with long legs , extremely fast , his muscles well defined , rippling under his shiny coat .
when franco called his name , his ears perked to full attention .
with a whinny he was ready for action .
franco pulled himself into the saddle with one hand .
horse and man moved as one as they race down the gravel road , dust swirling around them .
rosa lee returned to the living room where her mother and father still stood at captain jeans chair .
he was even paler than before and her parents looked worried .
her mother held a cloth on the leg , trying to stop the bleeding , pale with worry .
her father held the letter with shaking hands and as she stepped closer , his right arm fell to his side .
the letter , open in his hand , shook as grey pallour covered his face .
father , what is wrong ?
her father did not say anything her mother covered her face in her hands , sobbing .
the cloth fell on the floor and a dark stain formed , unnoticed .
rosa lee reached for the letter still clutched in her fathers big hand and began to read .
the more she read , the angrier she got .
cisco almaida it is a shame that we must meet under these circumstances , for i have heard about your bravery over the years but a man must make a living .
consider this a business transaction .
i have your youngest son , pedro , in my custody at the isle of saint marie .
he assured me that you are a wealthy man and can pay me a healthy ransom for his release .
for your sons release i demand 2000 in gold coins by the end of four months or he will be dead .
it will all depend on how quickly you can deliver .
he talked about his lovely sister so often .
let her bring it .
i can use some feminine company .
do not try anything .
i did send my second in command with your captain jean to watch over all the proceedings and to make sure rosa lee comes along .
his life is in your hands .
the falcon how dare he ?
she lifted the paper in the air , perplexed , angry , and bitter at this unknown falcon .
as her hand dropped , still trembling , she looked at her parents with blazing eyes .
she had to read the letter twice to understand the contents .
the more she read , the angrier she grew .
how dare he ?
she spat out .
you have to leave tomorrow morning early .
otherwise you will not make the deadline , captain jean gasped .
his second in command is his son , a ruthless and cunning man .
it was he who wounded me before i got off the ship , to make sure i would deliver the message .
what is his name ?
rosa lee asked , still seething .
roberto .
he is very sly and very dangerous .
i would do as they say if i were in your shoes , he said through clenched teeth .
finally cisco spoke , and the anger in his voice was unmistakable .
who does this man think he is , to command in this manner money , my daughter and my sons life , all in one breath ?
my father is used to getting what he wants , and this is a small price to pay for your sons life , i would say .
a very tall , dark haired man , the expression on his face determined and fierce , stood in the doorway , filling it with his large frame .
they had not noticed him before now and swung toward the deep baritone voice .
a scar ran from the corner of his left lip to his left eye .
the deep ochre shade of those eyes made him look even more dangerous .
he wore black trousers with high boots .
a white shirt showed beneath his long black jacket .
in his large hand that looked like a claw to rosa lee he nonchalantly held a black hat .
he glared straight into her fathers own piercing eyes without any faltering of his gaze .
she clenched her hands in fists , eyes blazing at the black cloaked man , the smirk on his face clearly in defiance of any law .
we leave tomorrow morning at six .
be there or bear the consequences .
his eyes shifted to her with amusement and with a mockingly courteous nod to her , he turned and left .
they were all stunned in disbelief .
how dare you ?
she shouted at his back .
he turned , glancing back at her , appraising her as if she were the most despicable thing he had ever seen .
the guffaw that burst from his throat rolled over her .
she stamped her foot in frustration on the marble floor .
though his voice was cold and distant , his eyes were fiery darts pinning her to attention to him .
be warned , mn petite , that you do not wake the beast .
and he left her standing there .
for a moment , fear gripped her heart and her knees buckled .
she melted into the love seat .
her dress billowed around her in an unlady like fashion .
she was crestfallen at the very idea that she would be in this cold mans presence for the next four months .
december 26 , 1623 cisco almaida , land owner .
words i never thought would stand together .
but after yesterday it was true .
i am a land owner , married to the most beautiful woman in the world .
and soon to be a father .
my heart wants to beat out of my chest .
a father .
the greatest gift of all .
when qonchita revealed it to me last night i was , to say the least , speechless .
i cried for the first time in my life .
i cried .
i had nothing else to say and i wrapped her in my arms and held her all night .
she has blessed me since the moment she stepped in my life .
she has made me have pride in myself .
because of her i can fulfil my dreams .
god , your word is true .
you bless the pure in heart .
you knew my desires and you fulfilled them .
even when i walked through the valley of death and feared , you remained faithful .
how awesome is your grace .
help me to stay true to your word , true to my new title , and to use it for good .
help me to be a husband and father as you have ordained from the foundation of the world .
i praise your holy name .
amen 2 january 2 , 1624 we spent our first christmas and new year together as a family .
cisco was like a child , riding his horse all over the place .
there was never a dull moment with him around .
rosa lee is blossoming with him as her father .
her giggles of delight fill the castles passageways and the staff is happier than i can remember .
this is all thanks to cisco .
cisco , the man who always steps up when the situation calls for it .
he was the one who acted when the ship was splitting into pieces on that fateful day when our lives changed forever .
he took charge of a panic filled crew , all the while his back was still healing .
when the crew started to drink all the whiskey in an attempt to soften the blow of death , he kept calm .
when slaves drowned in the whiskey in their attempts to get there first , he kept us safe .
he made a harness for rosa lee and myself on that fateful day when eighty nine people died during the ships demise .
he simply put me on his back and rosa lee on his chest and jumped into the swells of the foaming sea .
he swam to the shore where he made sure we were safe before he helped anyone else .
of course once captain breno was on land he took it out on cisco .
jealous because he did not save everyone and the people admired cisco .
those first days on the beach , stranded on the east coast of africa were terrifying .
but that was only the start of our journey .
cisco built us a hut to shelter us from the continuous rains .
he was the one that made sure there was food enough for everyone .
the people trusted him more and for that he was punished again .
again flogged like an animal when he shot a deer to feed the many mouths .
but we would have died if not for him .
he saved me when faro wanted to rape me .
he saved rosa lee when a lion wanted to kill her .
he never complained he did what was necessary and every one benefited from it , including my husband and the captain .
those days were filled with horrific scenes of death and survival .
they would always stay in my mind .
cisco , you have called for me .
wheres the patient ?
cisco almaida visibly shook for the first time in his life .
his whole family was endangered by one mans insanity .
wrapping his arms around his wife , he caressed her back and in return , tiny hands held his broad back , caressing him .
watching his daughter over on the settee , he could see raw emotions running over the youthful face .
then at last he followed the familiar voice to his friend and family doctor .
he swallowed at the bile in his throat , got his voice back , and said , doctor vasco , please come in .
it is jean .
he was wounded .
cisco turned to captain jean , still holding his wife around the shoulders .
the captain was still sitting on the chair , as white as a sheet , miserably in pain .
is there somewhere we could lie him down so that he can be more comfortable ?
yes , doctor , please follow me , said rosa lee , who had come to her senses , lifting her eyes and wiping the tears away .
her mother was still distracted .
she did not hear anything else around her .
tears streamed down her face but she made no sound .
straightening herself , rosa lee walked to the injured captain jean , helping him to his feet .
with the aid of the doctor , supporting him between them , she got him to the nearest bedroom , where they laid him down .
rosa lee helped to remove his jacket .
they saw the gaping sword wound clearly , his shirt and trousers on the right side drenched with blood .
i will go get some warm water , doctor .
please excuse me .
thanks , rosa lee .
she walked out , the anger she felt earlier building up inside of her .
who do these people think they are , this pirate roberto , son of the falcon , using pedro and myself shamelessly , and wounding our friend in this manner ?
i will go , she decided , to get her brother back , but if they think that i will stay there as their female companion , they have another thing coming !
she sneered unwomanly i will show them !
again she was filled with outrage .
she was twenty four years old and she knew how to defend herself .
her father had taught her the skill of the pistol and the sword .
i will give them hell .
for now i will play along .
but the moment i get an opportunity , i will take revenge for this blatant arrogance .
her hazel eyes spat fire and with a very fierce posture , she walked to the kitchen to get the warm water and then speak to her father .
they had to know that they could count on her to bring pedro back .
mother , father , please let me go .
i will bring pedro back safely .
her father had refused to give in to the demands of the pirate .
i will not send my only daughter to that place .
i have heard many things about this pirate and isle of saint marie .
i will go and get him !
cisco raised his voice in frustration and anger .
but father , the letter states plainly that i must go .
we must do as they say , else they will kill pedro .
they argued for a long time about this .
even manuel said he would go , but his father just looked at him with a glare and refused .
he had to tend to the farm .
finally , when it was already late that evening , father reluctantly gave in .
mother walked up to him and wrapped her arms around his waist , pleading and crying , but they all knew there was nothing they could do .
they had to give in to the demands of the pirate or lose their son .
however , the thought of their daughter in the hands of those brutes terrified them .
cisco knew what they did to women , how they treated them .
rosa lee was as good as dead once she was there .
how would they live with themselves ?
please , father , you have taught me all you know and i can defend myself .
dont worry , please , i will be fine .
trust that what you have taught me will save me and pedro .
her eyes were wide with determination as she stepped closer to them .
cisco gathered her closer , her face pressed into his shoulder .
he held her for a very long time , shaking .
her mother rubbed her back and said , we love you , dear , please come back safely .
yes , mama .
she kissed qoncitas soft cheek , still beautiful after all these years , her back rigid as she composed herself .
i will let you go , rosa , but you need to let me know as soon as possible what is going on so that i know if i have to come looking for you , cisco said gruffly .
yes , father .
standing on her tip toes , she kissed his handsome face .
i need to pack still , and it is late .
yes , dear , i will bring the coins to you in a moment .
he hugged her once more before he let her go .
mother and father stood at the door for a while and she could hear him mutter something to her and manuel , who walked away , angry at the whole situation .
this was not the time to be a hero .
as rosa lee packed her trunks with her earthly belongings qonchita came to sit with her .
qonchitas eyes were moist but she was obviously more under control while she sat and watched .
she handed her daughter petticoats to pack in and only sniffed few times .
this was hard on rosa lee .
she knew how her mother had struggled to forget the turmoil of their time in africa , the nights she woke terrified of the horrors they had seen .
rosa lee really hoped that this would not cause those nightmares to return .
because she was only four during those times , they had sheltered her from the worst parts of it .
she did not experience half the nightmares mama did .
papa was the strong one who kept them sane during those times , making a new future for them all .
he was the pillar and he would be the pillar as always , her giant papa .
he was the man she started to know as a friend and who had become her father .
she hardly remembered her biological father .
the abuse they had suffered under him had made him easy to forget .
mama , please , dont make it so hard .
i will be fine .
you and papa have taught me everything you know .
i will be all right .
just believe in me , please .
i do believe in you , rosa lee , but still , this is very dangerous .
the outcome can be devastating for both you and pedro .
i have a few plans up my sleeve for this falcon and his son , mother .
please calm down .
she said with much conviction .
her mother looked at her in shock , grabbing her shoulders .
rosa lee !
you will not try something foolish and get yourself killed .
promise me .
no , mother .
she held her mothers hands , kissing them .
i will be back with pedro , i promise .
she hid her pistol and knife in her trunk .
this pirate will not have me on a platter rosa lee almaida is made of pure almaida blood , tough enough to face anything .
later rosa lee lay in her bed , eyes wide open .
she had to swallow hard as the enormity of what she was about to face occurred to her and tears ran down her cheeks .
she allowed them to run freely .
come tomorrow morning , fear would be the last emotion she had the luxury of giving into .
her life would depend on her skill and alertness .
january 4 , 1624 last night i was awakened by qonchita once again .
she panicked and moaned uncontrollably in her sleep .
it took me awhile to calm her enough for her to realize we were safe .
the turmoil of our journey plagued her .
last night she dreamed we were back on the beach where kayla tried to seduce me .
the slave girl had pretended to sleep with me so that qonchita would desert me .
the mere fact that qonchita did not speak to me for a few days almost killed me .
because of her i had the courage to do what i did to get us out of that place .
faros attempt to rape her terrified her .
i wish i could take those haunting images away .
every time after such an ordeal she melted into my arms , looking forlorn and lost .
my heart ached for her and for what we were going through .
the image of her feet , skin worn away to a bloody pulp from walking , her slippers torn , is engraved in me .
those first days were terrible , when we realized help was not coming and we would have to walk .
people fell down from exhaustion because the captain refused to stop .
the lack of food and the constant rain stalled us over and over .
i still hear the screams as wild animals captured people and dragged them into the bushes .
i carried qonchita for days through that brush with rosa lee on my back .
faro never attempted to help them .
not that i would have let him .
the man was more interested in the slave girls that travelled with us .
there were times that i had to bite my tongue when i caught him in the act .
the man was simply arrogant in his dealings , but those women loved him .
those days were hard on my lady .
but she never complained .
she took everything with her head held high , a true lady to the bone .
i swore to myself that i would keep her safe , protect her .
i did not care what any one said as long as she was safe .
those days when i carried her , i knew without any doubt that i loved her but i never said a word , although i wanted to .
that kiss was the only one we ever dared to share , so i kept my distance as much as i could .
it was hard to watch her , yet she had this strength in her that made her to stand up and go on , no matter what .
now , to have her in my arms every night is a blessing .
i can kiss her all i want .
i make love to her and she simply melts in my arms .
she is my joy , my delight .
i will love her always .
3 january 15 , 1624 today was an exceptionally cold day and we spent it indoors .
i love days like this where we can sit around the hearth and read , talk and enjoy each others company .
rosa lee was on top of cisco most of the time .
she loves her daddy so much .
her laughter fills the castle .
i can hardly wait for this little one to come .
my protruding tummy is a joy for cisco .
he simply can not keep his hands off me .
today i think back to the many days and weeks we walked through the grassy plains of africa .
i remember the exhaustion , the heat , and the insects that bit us day and night .
then in the afternoons the rains would drench us completely so that the nights were miserable .
we faced hunger for days on end because captain breno refused to let us rest and get the required food .
i learned to eat anything in my walk , from tree bark to grass and leaves .
anything would do just to get the hunger pains under control .
there were days that i did not know how we got at a certain point .
my body and soul were so tired for lack of everything basic .
after two months we finally arrived in an empty stad , a town .
no one was there and as we searched the empty huts in the hope of food , we were once again faced with nothing .
a lonely dog barked , seeking attention from the captain .
he shot it .
people scrambled to get to it first .
in disgust i watched as they ate it just like that .
someone found rotten maize .
again , people ate it and got stomach cramps .
two people died afterwards .
the one thing that would always remain in my thoughts was the face of the pregnant woman we found shot dead by our captain and left to bleed to death .
he was a cruel man .
he wanted to punish me when i hit him out of pure rage after the death of that young woman .
her death was senseless .
cisco thought it wise to take me away .
in the process we were attacked by savages .
we ran , rosa lee in ciscos arms , me right behind him and kayla , who was never far behind , followed us .
in the confusion we were separated from the group .
two days later when we found them we were charge with mutiny .
it was the first time i saw cisco completely lose his temper .
he is a big man , taller and more bulky than most .
he towered over captain breno and for the first time i saw fear in the captains eyes .
cisco was captured by some of the captains followers but the rest of the group attacked them and eventually they let go of him .
from that day forward the captain was not so hostile toward cisco .
those were trying times .
our endurance was pushed to the limit .
commotion filled the harbour early the next morning .
the sun tinted the sky in an orange gold , a few featherlike clouds floating in the heavens .
captains barked out commands to their scurrying crews .
sailors raced around to get all the cargo onto the ships , walking the plank in swift long strides laden with luggage , crates or chicken pens .
while men scaled the tackle works , hollering to each other , a few already swabbed the decks with holystone and salt water , whistling a cheerful tune .
the whole place looked alive and festive .
festivity was the last thing in the hearts of the almaida family .
with sombre faces , they watched sailors carry rosa lees trunks up the plank of the contra o vento .
the small , streamlined frigate lay waiting in the calm water .
cisco and qonchita stood next to manuel , who watched the activities with interest .
rosa lee knew his heart was not with the sea .
this was his life , here , working the land .
she would miss him , her big bear of a brother .
she bravely smiled at her family and they held her for a moment in silence .
they had said all they could .
now they all had to believe that this voyage would not end in disaster .
rosa lee was just hugging her mother when they heard a stern , brisk voice behind them .
very touching , but it is time .
rosa lee saw the pirate looking at her from the ship , the same amusement from the previous evening in his eyes .
he looked menacing , unwavering in the same dark clothes of the previous day .
she met his gaze in the same manner unwavering , defiant .
his chuckle sent fury into her eyes .
roberto saw the fury and it drew him .
this will be an interesting time with her aboard the ship .
the falcon is definitely going to know her , but there is no harm in having some fun .
ochre eyes roamed over the enticing body wrapped in green taffeta .
the dark braided hair lay over a creamy shoulder .
her bodice clung to the small frame in the latest fashion .
her perky breasts looked ripe for the plucking .
he grinned at the picture he knew he will enjoy .
she stepped away from her parents with anger still visible on her face .
she gathered her dress in her hands and walked up the plank with a steady gait and a rigid back , small shoulders straight , showing no fear , to where the pirate waited .
she looked at him , eyes locking his with defiance .
his guffaw rumbled up his throat , mocking her .
she pulled her chin up .
without a word , she turned to wave to her parents .
rosa lee almaida definitely has some backbone , roberto smiled .
backbone i would like to break and bend to my will .
yes , i am definitely going to enjoy this voyage .
he turned his attention back to the ship and barked orders still aware of rosa lee at the railing .
she stood there until the white sails were set high above her , the breeze filling them with snapping sounds .
wood creaking , the ship started to sail away from the harbour .
they moved farther and farther over the blue depths , small waves tossing against the hull , until she could not see her parents any more .
refusing to give in to the emotions which swept over her , she finally turned away from the rail .
two men stood with buckets filled with sea water and splashed it over the wooden deck .
some were up in the tackle of the sails , the watchman in his crows nest .
many of them watched her with curiosity , toothy grins on their faces , talking to one another .
some of them looked at her like a morsel they could sample as dark , lustful eyes followed her .
the captain stood on the bridge next to the boatswain looking down at her with his mock expression , an expression she intended to have the pleasure of wiping from his face .
the man on his right hand side was rather good looking , with a smile on his handsome face .
his eyes followed her and he gave her a light nod .
she nodded back in greeting , which caused roberto to frown , looking at his second in command with a stern gaze .
he muttered something and the man looked away with a smirk .
looking around , she wondered where she would be sleeping when she heard a young male voice next to her .
seorita almaida , i will show you to your sleeping quarters .
his voice was pleasant to her ear and she smiled , glad to finally see a friendly face .
i will be your chamber boy for the duration of the trip .
please follow me .
he could not be more than sixteen years old , very small in posture .
big brown eyes had an easy smile in them .
he was quite likeable , considering the predicament she was in .
well , i am here now .
i might just as well make the best of it .
when she looked up , her fathers flag , their family crest , had been replaced with a black pirate flag and a purple flag with a falcon underneath it .
she sneered in a most unladylike way at them and followed the young man .
what is your name ?
she asked as her eyes swept over the ship , refusing to look at the defiant man on the bridge .
i am enrico , seorita .
well , enrico , show me the way .
he took her below deck to the stern of the ship to a large cabin with rich , purple velvet curtains and bed drapes .
surprised at the richness she looked around and took in the sparse furniture .
she expected a bunk , but finding a bed in there was so much better .
a small dresser and table stood in the one corner with a chair next to it , next to the port .
these will be your cabin , seorita .
if there is anything you need , you can pull this cord and i will be here to assist .
he showed her a golden cord which hanged in the corner of the bed .
that door leads to my cabin .
he pointed out a door in the left corner of the cabin .
breakfast will be served in your cabin but all other meals will be eaten with the captain .
i refuse to eat with that man .
i will stay here .
please go !
immediately she raised her voice in anger .
who does this man think she is ?
i do not want any contact with him in anyway .
the nerve of this man .
enrico nodded his head in understanding and walked out , closing the door behind him .
she unpacked her trunk into the cupboard provided for her dresses and left a few things in the trunk for later use , especially the pistol , well hidden for now .
she realized she needed a place to put them and , looked around her room a second time .
her room was comfortable but small not what she enjoyed at home , but for now it suited her purposes .
she found her way around easily and decided to put her knife near her bed between the folds of the curtains .
it would be close enough to get to easily .
in the one corner near the window was the tub for her bath , a luxury on a ship .
although the ship belonged to her father she had never been on it , only the larger merchant one , but her father undoubtedly thought of everything when he purchased it a few years back .
not suitable for a woman , but for this voyage it would do fine .
she was busy brushing her long hair when she heard a knock .
thinking that it will be enrico , she answered , please come in .
seorita almaida .
the familiar stern voice greeted her .
when she turned around , roberto stood behind her .
he was closer to her now than at any time since they had met , hovering over her , the menacing look plainer to see on his face .
the scar running from his left eye to the corner of his mouth made him look fierce .
i have been informed that you will not join me for the meals , seorita .
can i ask why not ?
his voice cold , while his eyes took in the interior of the cabin .
i will not eat with you , a pirate .
defiance was in her own cold voice .
i dont want to discuss this any further .
please leave my room .
she turned away from him , peering out the porthole to the open sea , and continued brushing her hair .
she did not see the amused look that was followed by a stern one as he spoke it is not a matter of what you want , seorita .
you will sit at my table and that is final !
make me , she said through clenched teeth .
all right , if this is how you want to play it , i am fine with that .
good day .
he nodded but she did not bother to turn around to notice .
when he left , she let out her breath .
she had not even realized that she was holding it .
this man will learn that i am not very willing or easy to please .
i will give him hell !
she braided her long hair with trembling fingers .
the day went on without any further disturbances and she kept herself busy with needlework , sitting near the port for extra light , but for some reason she did not see enrico again .
by late afternoon , she finally decided to call for him and pulled the cord .
her throat was dry and she was hungry .
she had not eaten last night after the news they had received .
this morning she was already gone before breakfast was served .
a few minutes later enrico entered her room .
where is my food ?
i had nothing to drink or eat for the whole day , she asked , annoyed , forgetting her manners .
i received strict instruction that no food or drink may be delivered to you , seorita .
well i never !
and she stamped her foot on the floor in anger .
she sneaked a look at the young man , on whom it had no effect , and she wondered for a moment if this was the best route to take .
she was determined not to cave in .
can i at least have water ?
she asked demurely .
no , came the abrupt reply .
that conceited man .
how dare he ?
she shouted .
he is the captain .
when he speaks , we listen , seorita .
is that right ?
she asked in a sarcastic tone .
where is he ?
in his quarters , eating , seorita .
take me to him , she demanded .
follow me , seorita .
enrico kept his eyes cast down , not meeting her angry stare .
the captains cabin lay two doors down the passageway .
when she walked in , he sat lazily at his table eating a peach , his stern eyes looking straight at her as if he had expected her .
i understand from my chamber boy that i will not be served any meals ?
that is correct .
did you change your mind ?
no , but it is inhuman .
how dare you not give me anything ?
not even water ?
because i am the captain and this is my ship , he said nonchalantly and placed a slice of fruit in his mouth .
for a moment she was at a loss for words , her fists white as she clenched them .
she could physically harm him by now .
i must point out that this is my fathers ship , seor , and not yours .
point taken , but i am the captain , therefore my rules .
you are a bastard !
she stamped out of the room , the fabric of her dress rustling with her anger .
how long do you think she will hold out ?
pierre , his second in command , asked .
dont know , but it will be interesting to see .
roberto placed another piece of the juicy fruit in his mouth , eating it slowly , while a smile appeared on the normally stern face .
she has a lot of spunk , pierre continued with a lopsided grin .
yes .
she is a real wildcat .
it will be interesting to tame her .
i have all the time in the world .
she will come around and see that in this world there is only one law that counts .
that is mine .
pegging the knife in his table , he stood straight , cleaning his hand .
he took the last sip of his red wine before he went back to the upper deck .
roberto liked what he saw .
when pedro told him about her , he was intrigued about the whole familys story , but especially about her .
when the opportunity came to bring her back as a ransom price , he jumped at the chance .
it did not take much convincing to sway the falcon so that roberto could go and ensure that cisco met the demands for the ransom .
the falcon knew he could trust roberto with her .
now he had a chance to get to know her better , and maybe convince the falcon that she would be more suitable for him .
she was a stunning woman with a lot of fire in her veins , a fire that roberto would like to ignite in ways other than anger .
by my calculation , there must be a fifteen years difference in our ages .
i can tame her to fit into my needs quite nicely .
my first impressions of her were correct .
yes , she will do perfectly for all the plans i have for her .
yes , that anger and fury in her i am going to turn in to passion , a task that i am looking forward to in the coming months .
in the , end she will be mine without a question .
for now he decided to keep his plans to himself , to go with whatever she was planning , and then take it from there .
he understood from pedro that she was skilled with the sword and a good markswoman .
moreover , if pedros good marksmanship was any indication , she would be a force to be reckoned with .
he would have to test her during the time they had on the open seas .
these will be an interesting four months voyage for sure !
roberto chuckled to himself .
pierre wondered what the smile was all about .
he knew his friend .
the man is wild among the women , usually , taking what he wants .
but with this one , he acts differently , toying with her like a lion with a rabbit .
something about little pedros sister is of interest to the captain .
it just may be the man has met his match with this young woman .
her eyes show how she feels and she is not afraid like most .
no , this one is defiant , a real wild cat , as roberto says .
that roberto was up to something was very clear to him .
yes , this will be an interesting time , with the stunning woman on board .
january 25 , 1624 i can not believe i am already a month on the estate .
a month of surprises , new opportunities and new experiences .
franco is patient with all my one hundred questions , answering them as we go along .
the villagers are really an interesting lot , and already i have made a few friends .
rosa lee is a constant chatterbox , which makes me smile with pleasure .
what a wonderful , brilliant child .
she is everything i want in a daughter .
inquisitive .
energetic .
beautiful .
and my dear wife how can i describe the love i feel for her ?
she is everything i want , need and more .
my heart still jumps when she enters a room , still taking my breath away .
her raven hair still mesmerizes me and i love to run my fingers through the silky softness .
she is brilliant , stunning and she is all mine .
every hardship i had to endure was worth it .
every day that i spend with her is a day that i am blessed and i can not thank god enough for this , and for keeping us safe .
he removed every obstacle , every scoffer , and made me victorious .
through all our trials he kept us healthy when people died around us like flies .
hunger , heat , rain , sickness were daily constants in our lives , but through all that we were saved .
i lost count of the number of people i buried when they got the fever , and not once did i get it myself .
still today , i thank god for that .
4 february 6 , 1624 last night i tossed and turned in my sleep , plagued with the one fight we had while in the grass plains of africa .
kayla was at it again , and like a fool i only believed what i wanted to believe .
when cisco wanted to help me carry water for the sick i screamed at him .
for weeks we did not speak .
kayla , of course , used this time to get to him , i thought .
afterwards i knew she had no chance with him .
he was devoted only to one woman , me .
what a fool i was .
and how much precious time we missed .
he was always ready to show me his love in all kinds of ways , to carry me when i was tired , to make sure rosa lee was protected and warm .
he was always close by when faro was in my presence .
he never talked directly to me , never even looked at me , but i was always in his thoughts .
when he had the opportunity to hunt he brought back the best meat to me and rosa lee .
at night he would cover us with huge leaves just to keep us comfortable and dry .
no matter how exhausted he was i was always his priority .
in the weeks we did not speak i would scold myself for mistrusting him .
now i know better .
i trust him with everything because i know his love is unchanging .
he has not changed since we were married at sea by captain derek , the man who rescued us and brought us back to portugal all those months ago .
what a glorious time that was .
after almost two years in the wilds of africa we were finally rescued by captain derek blanq .
he fell in love with kayla and they got married a month after us .
derek and cisco became friends on that journey .
on the third day , rosa lee came into robertos cabin .
he saw that her lips were dry and she hungrily eyed him eating a peach , also stealing glances at the chicken on the table .
can i help you , seorita ?
he asked without looking up .
can i have some water and food , please ?
her mouth was so dry that only a whisper was heard over the scratching of the tin plates .
i can not hear you , seorita .
speak up .
he lifted his head to meet her eyes .
can i have some water and food , please ?
will you sit at my table ?
she looked at him .
her expression still showed defiance and anger but she tried to cover it with exaggerated submissiveness .
he smirked .
yes .
sorry , i did not hear you .
yes , i will sit at your table !
pierre , please bring a chair closer for the seorita .
when a chair was placed behind her , she had to stop herself from grabbing food and water simultaneously .
her lips burned with thirst .
do you want water , seorita ?
yes , please .
while he poured the sparkling , clean water , she watched his every movement .
every nerve ending in her body shouted cravings for the sweetness .
he placed the water carafe back on the table and handed her the cup .
with shaking hands she finished the water in one thirsty gulp .
droplets ran from the side of her mouth .
ochre eyes followed the trail down her neck , over her full bosom and onto her dress .
he had to hand it to her .
she had held out for three hot days .
brave and strong was this delicate little flower .
she reminded him of flowers he once saw blooming in the desert beautiful and alive with colour , but underneath , hidden under the lush green leaves , thorns waited , and when you tried to pluck one , it would sting you when you least expected it .
he had to shift for the stirring that he felt , keeping his expression sternly on her .
she , however , did not notice the stare or the shift .
she ate until she was full , the delicious food a welcome treat to her palate .
it was quiet for a long time in the captains cabin with roberto filling her plate and she eating , hands trembling , taking sips of the wine he offered to wash it down .
pierre had already left without her noticing .
once done , she relaxed , holding the glass of water in her hands , not letting go of the precious fluid , taking frequent sips .
meals will be served punctually , every day , he said lazily cleaning his nails with the knife .
i hope , seorita , that we understand each other better from now on .
he met her gaze .
without a doubt , she snapped .
ahh , the thorns , he smiled .
enrico is preparing a bath for you as we speak .
enjoy , seorita .
he smiled at her when she finally let go of the glass .
for the last three days , she received no bath .
the heat was unbearable in her cabin , but she refused to go on the upper deck in this state of filthy , unkempt hair and alarming body odours .
these men , these savages , will not humiliate me !
the bath would be a welcome diversion .
she felt sticky from the sea air , her hair hanging listless on her shoulders .
thanks , seor , she said , a bit friendlier .
she felt humiliated by the experience and she could see that he loved her discomfort .
now she could not look at the smirk on his face .
i hate him !
it was a pleasure , he said as she left .
she could hear his laugh following her all the way to her door .
i really hate him .
two hours later , she felt refreshed and clean , her skin soft and creamy .
she decided to go to the upper deck to dry her hair in the midday sun .
for the first time since she had come on board , she came up on the deck .
walking to the bow , a man busy with ropes looked at her with interest .
she ignored him , touching the taffrail to keep her balance .
she could look far around her , the west coast of africa noticeable on the horizon .
the ship clove the clear waters .
a light sea spray met her that was welcoming in the heat .
it was her first time taking a voyage again .
her mind wandered very far from her immediate surroundings , thinking about a similar voyage twenty years ago when she was only four years old .
memories flooded back of how they had met the giant they now knew as cisco almaida .
she remembered how she ran up to him , telling him that she would be his daughter because he didnt have one and looked sad .
from that day forward there was a bond between that sailor , now her father , and herself .
she remembered hugging his thick leg , feeling safe .
his hug in return was hesitant because the captain did not allow any contact between the passengers and the crew .
in her young mind she did not know of the trouble she had caused him , only that she had a longing for a father figure .
her father was never interested in her , never around , or when he was he was always drunk .
she had always been afraid of her biological father and had never had the liberty to run up to him and hug him as she could with the giant .
her young heart immediately reached out to him .
he talked to her in a soft , low voice , and even today , he never raised his voice to her , even when she knew she deserved it .
he was a loving , gentle giant , and she loved him fiercely .
in her eyes , he was everything a father , a husband , and a man should be .
she remembered how he was whipped because he held her , the pain on his rugged face , but not once did he cry out .
his back ripped open from the lashes .
her mother thought that she did not witness it but she did and when it was finished , she sat in a corner and she cried about the unfairness of the grownups .
her biological father stood close by and laughed when the giant received the beating and she hated him .
never once did she seek for his affection or love again throughout the voyage .
in the year and a half that they were in the bush country of africa and she got scared , she always ran to the giant seeking safety and comfort in his arms .
cisco was always there .
ever since her mother and he met , they had loved each other dearly .
it did not matter how hard they tried to ignore it .
their feelings became stronger over the period of time .
they never could openly express their love because of the no contact rule that the captain enforced harshly .
no one ever loved that man , not even her father , who was always in a drunken stupor because of all the idle time at sea .
he had nothing to keep him busy except gambling with the sailors .
this was the first time after their ordeal that she was back on the open sea .
yes , there were many times that she went on board ships because her father wanted to teach her the science of chart reading and making knots , but she had never gone on a voyage again .
she was happy on their estate , helping in the villa and in the village .
she loved nature and the smell of freshly worked ground as well as the peace and tranquillity that it brought to her soul .
sadly , she wondered if she would ever set eyes on that place again .
things at sea could change very quickly .
she knew the sea was never a friend .
she remembered when manuel and pedro were born and how happy mama and papa were .
before they were born , her father had always had a longing in his piercing eyes .
but after their birth it disappeared , replaced by contentment and joy .
he always told them how much he loved them , and her mother had developed into a beautiful woman because of the love he had shown her .
before their marriage her mother had been called an ice queen .
she lived a bitter and lonely life .
that changed after she married the gentle giant .
one day rosa lee would also have a love like that .
at the age of twenty four , she was still not married , but her hopes for the right man to come had not wavered .
many suitors came and spoke to her father about her hand in marriage but he always respected her wishes .
he never gave in to the demanding men and she loved him even more .
to be loved like that was her one goal .
she wanted to be protected and to feel safe in the arms of the man she loved , to trust him .
that was the love she sought .
now she found herself on a ship going to the harem of a pirate captain on an island very far from her beloved family .
there was no way that her life would end this way .
she would not accept this .
tears of frustration ran down her cheeks .
she never thought that this would ever happen to her that she would be part of a price to set her brother free .
finally , when the evening bell announced the dinner , she was once again aware of her surroundings .
she wiped her face clean from the dry tears and went down to the dining cabin .
she did not keep track of the time she spent on deck nor realize that it had gotten so late already .
with a gentle stroke to her still loose , wavy hair , shoulders straight and back rigid , she walked into the dining cabin .
the men were already sitting down , but the moment they noticed her they stood up , waiting for her to take a seat in the middle of the table .
she acknowledged their gesture with a simple nod of the head and sat down .
the captain sat at the head of the table .
pierre , the chief mate , alexi , enrico and two other men sat around her .
the captain nodded in her direction and they started the meal .
the men were deep in conversation .
she listened with half an ear , keeping her eyes on her plate , eating the deliciously prepared food consisting of roast beef and vegetables .
when she was almost done with the meal she heard the captain addressing her .
do you feel better after the bath and the stroll on the deck , seorita ?
she was looking forlorn .
there was a sadness on her face and roberto wondered about it .
he wished he could reach out to her but he knew that it would be futile at this moment .
remember the thorns .
yes , thank you .
her eyes were still downcast on the plate before her as she took small bites of the remaining food .
the men continued with the conversation and she listen still half heartedly .
roberto watched her from across the table .
not once did she make eye contact with anyone present .
he wondered what she was thinking about .
from her brothers stories , he knew that this was her first voyage after that ordeal .
could it still be difficult for her ?
he had watched her the whole afternoon as she stood on the deck , her thoughts were very far off .
emotions played on her face that even brought her to tears .
he wanted to go closer and comfort her , but he knew he would not have been welcomed .
she never once noticed him , so close to her , and he could enjoy her beauty without any disturbances .
she reminded him of his mother .
his mother was also beautiful as a young woman and gentle .
she had strength in her that no one could break , and through many difficult times she was the one who kept them focused .
he missed his parents it was now sixteen years since he had last seen them .
ever since he had met the young seorita he found himself longing for a family a family he could call his own .
yes , this woman intrigued him on a completely different level .
he knew many women in the different harbours all over the known world beautiful women who captured his interest for a while .
he would have his time with them , but when he left , he never thought about them again .
this one , rosa lee almaida , captivated him even before he met her , but to know her as a warm , passionate woman would be wonderful and fulfilling .
he could see himself on a farm with her by his side , building a future with her .
he even imagined a few children running around , enjoying the fruit of his labour .
for so long he had suppressed thoughts like that , but he thought about it more and more often , enjoying the comfort it brought to him .
since he had seen her , he knew she would be the one .
she could be wild and passionate .
she would keep him on his toes but he would keep her in his arms .
he would take her and make her his .
she would come alive , begging him to satisfy her every need .
she would be a wild cat , and he could not wait to tame her .
the life he led had been forced upon him at a very young age .
it was the only way that he could help his parents and save the farm .
and for this lady sitting across from him , he was willing to give it up .
from the life of a pirate he longed to go back to being a farmer .
from the very first moment he saw her , he knew they were meant to meet .
he would have her and somehow he would have to convince her and the falcon of this .
he knew what the falcon had planned for her .
her father was correct in expecting the worse .
her fate would lead to death if he did not intervene .
the falcons way with women was legendary , using them , breaking them until there was nothing left of the once beautiful woman .
not a very pretty picture .
the falcon was a brute when it came to women .
he only enjoyed them for a while and then threw them to his men .
roberto had seen women broken emotionally and physically by the falcon and to see this woman in his hands ?
he would not allow it .
he would rather carry her away to a remote island and marry her , than for her to experience that kind of abuse .
february 28 , 1624 today i had to deal with a situation in the village as part of land owner duties .
it left me sick to my stomach and brought back memories best forgotten .
we stumbled on another african village , not deserted this time .
at first the people were friendly , allowing our surviving group of twenty five to camp and eat with them .
for two days we could rest and have shelter .
qonchita started to get her colour back and kayla began to explore .
but that cost her dearly .
one of the village men had his eyes on her since the day we got there .
and when opportunity knocked he took it .
he cornered her near the kraal and assaulted her .
the next morning when i found her i was angry .
i went straight to the chiefs hut to demand justice .
and in return he demanded kayla as his wife .
i could not allow this .
kayla was still very young and i felt responsible for her .
although a seductive temptress , she did not deserve to be treated in that manner and be left behind .
when captain breno died of the fever and the people elected me as their leader i vowed that no one would be left behind again .
i begged for her release and finally one of the slave girls offered to stay behind .
it was touch and go for a moment and i really thought that was where we all would die .
for a long time kayla was not the same but with gentle coaching from qonchita she made it through .
once again qonchita came through for this young woman and i really hope she will pull through .
tomorrow i must speak to the parents of the young man , and hope we can come to a fair arrangement .
5 march 16 , 1624 the past month cisco was met with many challenges from the villagers .
he was confronted by other land owners who did not feel the same as he did in managing the land .
he is exhausted by the continuous strain but i have faith in him and know he will do the best for us and our people .
he learns fast and with franco guiding him i know he can only succeed .
he is now an accomplish rider and he and furor are seen all over the estate , dashing over the plains at breakneck speed .
furors enthusiasm is contagious .
the other horses , especially rosa lees pony , are a struggle to contain in the stable .
the baby is growing fast and i struggle to walk properly .
this is much to ciscos delight , but he demands that i rest as often as possible .
he even gave the staff instructions to keep a close eye on me when he is not here .
i miss him when he leaves in the mornings to do his work but the reunion at night makes up for it .
his tenderness towards me on one particular occasion reminds me when we were in the heart of africa .
we travelled for weeks by foot after we left yet another village .
many of our people , including the captain , had died of the fever and cisco was the official leader .
by his estimate we were very close to a fort in mozambique and he decided to take several men and walk to the fort to get some help .
our food levels were low and he made sure that there was enough to eat and drink before he left with eight other men .
he left alfonso in charge and the small group of twenty four people were grateful for the rest .
but the moment they left the fever once again swept through the group .
soon everyone was in a terrible state , with only myself , kayla and alfonso to tend to the sick .
we buried people and by the fourth week only six remained .
faro himself was on his last breath and during this time we made peace .
rosa lee visited him often .
the once brusque and impatient man turned into a loving father .
i had a hard time with this .
my loyalty and love belonged to cisco , but i was still married to faro .
during one night of clarity he told me he welcomed the fact that i found love .
he asked for forgiveness for the hard and cruel times i had endured under him .
in a sense we made peace , but i could never love him .
my heart was in turmoil because i knew i could not leave cisco and never see him again .
that was my train of thought all awhile cisco was gone .
i missed him .
rosa lee missed him .
i did the best i could and placed my feelings and concerns in the back of my mind while tending to the sick .
starved and tired , we went on .
by then when someone passed away i simply covered the body , since every man was either dead or too sick to bury them .
alfonso got sick and i was busy attending to him when cisco and a small group of men appeared out of the bushes .
it was not the same group that left with him .
my heart went on a rampage the moment i saw him .
he stood there , dumbfounded at the sight he saw .
he searched for me and did not recognise me .
at that stage i was a walking skeleton .
my beauty had faded , my skin was like sandpaper and darker than normal .
my once soft black hair was all tangled and without life .
he was rested , and very handsome in a new pair of clothing .
the signs of our ordeal were still visible on him .
but the moment he saw me , he wrapped me in his arms .
i cried , not caring about the people and what they might say .
for the second time since i knew him he kissed me .
i would never forget that kiss .
if there was any doubt in my mind left , he demolished it completely with that kiss .
later when we calmed down and settled with the food he had brought , faro called us over .
he said that he would no longer stand in our way and gave his blessing .
from that day forward cisco and faro became friends until faros death at sea weeks later .
we did have a disagreement a few days later on our way to the fort .
i was so weak i could not walk , my feet troubling me once again .
i expected his help but he was too busy to attend to me and ignored me , i was furious .
but a week later cisco convinced me of his love again .
in my frail and weak state i easily saw things differently than what they were .
now we can laugh about it but then it was serious .
it took a spider to bring me to my senses .
when rosa lee finally stood up to leave the cabin roberto also stood up and asked , would you care to go up and walk with me on the deck ?
hazelnut eyes met ochre ones and for a few seconds they just locked before she answered , her eyes revealing her shock at the invitation .
yes , i would like that .
it was still early and she was not in the mood to confine herself in her cabin .
after three days of self imposed lock up , she wanted to feel the wind in her hair and the sea spray on her face .
the fact that he asked her to walk with him shocked her the most .
be alert rosa lee .
he can not be trusted !
darkness filled the starry night sky .
the quarter moon made it even darker .
lit lanterns on the upper deck added a romantic feeling , she thought , not a scene she was comfortable sharing with the pirate .
you could barely see anything out on the sea as they walked along the taffrail on the deck .
only the sound of the ship breaking through the waters interrupted the silence .
the few men that were on duty were quiet , nodding when they passed .
if she did not know better , she would have thought that they were alone .
your brother has told me a lot of stories about what you endured during your adventures into africa .
dont you want to tell me a story ?
she glanced at him but could not see his face clearly , covered in darkness , his hands clasped behind his back .
he sounded sincere in his request and his presence calmed her , especially his mentioning her brother .
she asked hesitantly , you know my brother ?
yes .
i have spoken with him a few times .
there was no secret in that information .
was he still fine when you left ?
yes , he was , came the honest reply .
please , tell me a story , he repeated , looking at her .
what do i tell him ?
rosa lee stared out over the dark sea .
deep in thought , she began to relate a story very familiar to her .
a horrific storm came up near the northeastern coast of africa .
the waves were higher than the ship and they towered over us terrifyingly , with a fierce and menacing anger , promising to crush us with every pounding .
he could see she was reliving it , closing her eyes .
the wind was cold and it felt like it wanted to tear the skin from our faces .
i was never as terrified as i was that night , clutching to my mothers body .
people cried out that we were going to die .
someone yelled that they must drink the liquor so that at least they would be drunk enough to dull the moment they drowned .
people were stampeding all over the ship as if they were possessed , clambering to the barrels on the lower deck .
everyone was forced to drink even the slaves that were shackled to the ships hull .
with their heads forced into the liquid , many drowned under the pressure when they tried to resist .
blood mixed with the liquor but people still drank it .
i will never forget the madness of that night .
the fear that gripped us was so real that i cried tears mingled with the salty water .
finally , when land was visible , my father shouted that a rowboat had to go to the shore with a rope .
a few still able to think with clarity reacted immediately .
once the rope was secured , those ashore sent a signal .
father strapped me to his back and my mother to his chest and jump into the angry , cold waves .
i held on to him with everything that i had .
my mother never made a sound from in front of him .
a few times , we went under into the cold depths , and just barely in time , emerged again .
father saved us that day without wavering .
back then he was only a sailor who owed us nothing but his care for us .
he was unselfish and we felt safe with him .
from the first moment i saw him , i accepted him as my father and to him i was the daughter he never had .
he was always gentle and kind to me .
he and my mother are inseparable , even to this day .
a soft sob left her mouth and she stopped talking the emotions very intense in her .
roberto waited next to her .
his hands clasped behind his back , he could hear her struggling for control .
his own control broke and without thinking , he placed an arm around the soft , delicate shoulders .
she stiffened and stood still under his touch , his arm warm and soft on her bare skin , giving her a feeling of safety .
she looked at him .
this time he was closer to her and she could see tenderness and understanding in his face .
this was a contrast to everything she knew about this man .
the stern and menacing look from the last three days had vanished .
for a brief moment , she enjoyed the closeness they shared before she stepped away and he dropped his arm .
he sounds like a great man and i would love to really meet him one day , he said softly , the sternness gone from his voice .
he had a beautiful , calming voice strong and steady .
he is a great man and father , and a great husband to my mother .
i miss him awfully .
i miss both my parents .
maybe one day you will meet a man like that as well .
you confuse me , captain .
my name is roberto , not captain , he said with a chuckle .
you confuse me roberto , she said , but with a grim smile .
i have heard that many times .
he removed a strand of hair from her face , at the same moment she moved to put it behind her ear .
their hands met and he folded hers into his warm grasp , bringing it to his lips .
good night rosa lee .
thanks for the story .
stunned by the intimate gesture , shivers went up her spine , but she could only watch him .
i must hate him !
he is a pirate !
she reminded herself .
she removed her hand and abruptly said , good night roberto .
i will have to find a way to get free and help my brother .
she thought as she watched his retreating back .
april 18 , 1624 today i held my son in my arms for the first time .
manuel francisco almaida .
i am a father now .
my heart is too big for my chest .
i , cisco almaida , once an ordinary sailor , am now the father of a beautiful daughter and a son .
how fortunate i am to have my family .
my dreams have changed into reality and i can love and enjoy them every day .
qonchita was in labour for ten hours , ten agonizing hours , but it was worth it .
she is even more beautiful than before .
once again she has blessed me beyond measure .
how fortunate and happy i am .
rosa lee is ecstatic about her new brother .
she wants to help with everything .
what a sweet , strong willed child .
she is everything i wanted in a daughter and more .
i can hardly wait to teach them all i know , about the sea , the land , about people .
my family .
6 may 6 , 1624 manuel had a bit of a fever today and we were really frightened , but the medicine woman assured us not to worry and gave us some powder to feed him .
he is a strong boy , already opening his eyes and watching the world go by .
cisco is a joy to watch as he carries the infant from room to room .
rosa lee is always close by to see when she can have the opportunity to hold her brother .
i normally have to fight for time between the two .
but it does not bother me at the least .
to see cisco this happy is more than worth it .
i remember other babies we buried in the heart of africa , along with their parents , due to fever , babies that never had the chance to grow and experience life .
this is what makes manuel so special , to experience life through him in a greater measure .
we remember those frightful days as if it was yesterday .
the heat , the insect infested time , coupled with the fever and constant rains .
i felt it would never stop .
through it all we had to hope that help would come or that we would find a safe haven .
but it took us some time to come to that place .
help never came and we were on our own .
we wandered through that wilderness in a daze .
i can barely remember the sights around me .
all i remember was the continued effort to survive in an unkind and untamed wilderness .
no more .
i would never return to that place .
sails ahoy !
the call from the crow master resounded from the main mast four days later .
sails appeared on the horizon , coming closer with each passing hour .
rosa lee was excited about the prospect of seeing another ship .
maybe she could send a word or get some help .
when she ran onto the deck , the ship , named the heerengardt was closer , and she saw the ensign of the d.e.i.c .
fluttering in the soft wind .
the heerengardt was much larger in build carrying two hundred soldiers and crew , canons , merchandise and coins than the contra o vento , a frigate built for speed and manoeuvrability with only eighty crew members .
roberto and his mens faces were tense as they scurried around to change the flags from pirate to her fathers crest ensign .
they want permission to come on board , the crow master yelled down .
they can come , roberto yelled back and he signalled back with the burgee .
the contra o vento was prepared to accept the visit , making sure all signs of piracy were gone .
all the men knew what was expected from them , to act like regular sailors on a ship of this size .
when the long boat came closer , an idea filled rosa lee and she descended to her cabin below , unnoticed .
a while later , the captain of the d.e.i.c vessel , a man of impressive frame , stepped on deck .
his fierce look pierced through everyone and everything .
however roberto was not intimidated by the man and met his fierce gaze only with a slight of humbleness .
both men assessing each other as both bowed in chivalry .
a young sailor moved closer to the captain and his men .
with his hat pulled low over his face , he moved forward unnoticed until he mingled with the strangers .
it seemed that he was a part of the crew , staring at his shoes .
he made no sound and no eye contact .
captain peek du toit at your service .
the deep voice of the captain filled the air .
he looked around him with piercing grey eyes , missing nothing where are you going ?
he demanded captain roberto of the contra o vento .
we are going to india to meet one of our ships and escort it back to portugal , roberto replied in a confident voice .
can i see the papers ?
yes .
roberto handed him their manifesto .
the tall man took the papers and inspected them , fingering the names listed .
all seems in order .
may i walk around ?
yes , please do .
we always welcome the d.e.i.c visits .
how is almaida ?
at home and well .
what is wrong with the ship you plan to escort ?
it ran into trouble after a storm .
we are on our way to help .
roberto only answered the necessary questions and did not offer any further details .
from a distance , his crew watched everything in silence .
they were alert , their gaze fixed on the ship in front of them .
when the inspection was completed , the men exchanged a few words and then walked back to where roberto was standing .
is everything in order ?
roberto asked .
everything seems fine .
we have received numerous reports of piracy in these waters so we must be careful to inspect each one .
i understand .
we will be on the lookout for any pirates .
thanks for warning us .
good , then .
we will be off so that you can continue with your voyage .
thank you , sir , and goodbye .
they watched the men very carefully as they descended the jacobs ladder , entered their long boat , and rowed back to their ship .
his men were highly alert , looking for any trouble .
however , he could swear that there were six men on the rowboat before , and now there were seven .
how did i miss one ?
everything seemed in order .
all his men were accounted for .
slowly he relaxed and pierre gave the signal that they could continue .
as he walked to his grand cabin roberto was deep in thought .
something was not right .
he could feel it , but he could not put his finger on it yet .
sitting at his mahogany desk , he pored over the charts , making sure they were still on course .
with the manifest open before him , he wrote down the time and date of captain peek du toits visit .
at suppertime rosa lee did not come .
he sent word to enrico .
where is seorita almaida ?
not in her cabin , captain , enrico replied cautiously .
i have looked everywhere but i can not find her .
he tried to appease roberto .
enrico was clearly distracted and fearful fidgeting with his pants , his eyes down cast .
the man in front of him was not easily fooled .
enrico had warned the seorita , after he had found her in her cabin dressed in mens clothing , of the foolishness of she was about to do .
but she would not listen to him and he could not lie to this man .
did you look on every deck ?
yes , captain .
sweat formed on the boys forehead and upper lip .
what are you not telling me , enrico ?
roberto barked all his usual brusque sternness back .
then it dawned on roberto who the seventh person was .
he cursed as he turned to pierre with a quick move causing the chair to be unbalanced for a brief moment .
she is on the other ship !
he slammed his fist down on the table .
the plates and glasses rattled and a bottle of wine toppled over .
pierre caught it just in time .
we will have to go and get her .
for this she will pay , he said , seething and pacing the floor .
she was disguised as one of the men .
she has put us all in danger with her game .
we will have to get her back that will be a daring feat , pierre said .
i realize that , but we have no choice .
if she talks we are all dead .
who says she didnt talk already ?
the situation was critical .
then the ship would have returned .
we are not that far from the heerengardt that it can not catch up with us .
we will have to follow and devise a plan to reclaim her without them noticing it .
it is a good thing that the moon is not shining tonight .
roberto !
you are mad to suggest this .
we will be going into the heart of the d.e.i.c and if they catch us , we would be immediately hanged .
i will go alone , roberto said .
this undertaking was of the highest risk .
with the order given they turned , following the ship with speed and in absolute dark silence .
all the pirates were on the lookout for any sudden movement , eyes darting over the black calm waters , searching for the heerengardt .
it took them six hours to intercept the heerengardt .
by then the sun was already dawning in rich amber colours and roberto realized they could not get closer without being noticed .
they fell back , keeping their distance with the crow master giving feedback every hour .
june 11 , 1624 kayla came for a short visit .
she really looked well considering she was five months pregnant .
derek was overwhelmed , keeping a tight hold on her hands .
she in turn could not get enough of little manuel .
not that i could blame her .
he was growing strong and healthy .
every day he looked more and more like me with the exception that he had his mothers dark brooding eyes .
he was big for his two months but it was normal , the medicine woman assured me .
today we relived many of the moments we shared with them in the wilderness of africa .
kayla remembered the time that one of the chiefs hunted us and we had to hide .
he wanted qonchita as his woman and i was not willing to let her go under no circumstances .
we had to flee late at night .
the rest of the group scattered in a different direction .
then when we finally came back to the group , i was accused of abandoning the group and punished accordingly .
both qonchita and kayla were angry at the captain .
but i took my punishment and made the best of it .
qonchita forgot all about propriety and rebuked me because i was so calm about it .
i explained to her that the captain had rules , and it did look as if i was running away .
for days she did not speak to me and today i can admit that it brought my heart much happiness .
i knew she loved me but she never showed it openly .
that only revealed her real feelings .
faro of course was angry with her for openly choosing me over him and he shunned her for a few days .
then came the event that changed everything between qonchita and kayla .
two weeks later we were again facing a stubborn chief who helped as at first but in the end demanded to have the women for himself .
i never had to think so quickly as on that day .
i stripped qonchita and kayla before him and showed their state .
since all four of his women were overweight , i pointed out how skinny qonchita and kayla were .
this displeased him greatly .
two slave woman that still had enough fat on them said they would stay and this pleased the chief .
in africa you learn to think on your feet and use the tools you have .
all finesse and veneer is stripped away and all that is left is survival .
you dont think , you just act and hope it was the best thing .
sometimes all you have left is your instincts to act on .
that means live or die .
for qonchita and rosa lee i would do anything as long as it meant they were safe .
7 august 22 , 1624 today was exceptionally warm day .
the humid air caused our clothes to cling to our sweat drenched bodies .
manuel was uncomfortable with the heat until cisco took him to the river and dipped him in .
for the first time in days he was happy , laughing as his father dragged him through the water playfully .
rosa lee also joined them in the water and i sat safely at the side with my feet in the stream .
it was a glorious summer day and cisco relaxed with the children .
he was extremely busy this time of the year .
the responsibilities of a land owner weighed heavily on him .
there was trouble with other land owners and they had held meetings the week before .
it irritated him greatly since it took him away from his home and family .
also there were problems with the villagers he had to sort out .
tomorrow he must leave for lisbon to see to the loading of the shipment he is sending to india .
alfonso arrived a week ago and is helping him .
the two friends were happy to see each other again for the first time since we arrived eight months ago .
alfonso is captain of the new ship cisco received from the d.e.i.c .
in tribute for his bravery during the two years we struggled through the wilderness .
if it was not for him we would not have made it and would have perished with the rest of the crew and slaves .
alfonso had no qualms about resigning from his old ship .
he took the job cisco offered since he receives part of the profits as payment .
alfonso met a young woman in india that he brought with him .
it was easy to see the sailor was smitten with her .
he is talking about marriage before he leaves in another two weeks .
akanksha is a raven haired beauty with big , wide , smouldering eyes in such a youthful face .
she loves alfonso as much as he does her , which we are thankful for .
previously another woman just wanted his name for her unborn child .
he thought it was his until the baby was born .
cisco said that alfonso was shocked and turned his attentions away from any woman .
it was really a pity since he is a fine man .
now he has met akanksha after all these years and it seems he finally has his own joy .
i wish them all the happiness in the world .
since he would be at sea often , she will stay in india , where he has already purchased a house for her .
she is very shy but i did manage to speak to her and help her buy her trousseau with the aid of alfonso , since she could only speak portuguese with great difficulty .
we all deserved happiness in our lives , finally putting the last two years out of our minds .
nightmares still woke me during the night .
the sounds and smells of people dying were embedded in our minds .
thank fully rosa lee adjusted well and her nightmares become fewer and fewer .
it was a clear day with brilliant sunlight .
they could see the heerengardt through the binoculars as they kept pace with the larger vessel through the vast deep blue atlantic .
the ocean was calm as small waves broke against the bow and a light breeze in the sails pushing them forward , closer to the heerengardt .
roberto was seething as he looked in the direction of the horizon where he knew the ship with rosa lee was .
with not much to do but hope that she would not betray them .
how could she do this ?
he thought the last four days had changed things .
fool that he was , he had trusted her .
what could she do on the ship , surrounded by ocean ?
he never thought she was capable of doing this .
never underestimate your enemy or a woman , falcon always said .
sly foxes , he called them .
thorns .
roberto gritted his teeth .
thorns .
pierre tried to talk to him but roberto was not in a conversational mood .
pierre let him be .
they went through the tasks of running the ship in silence .
it seemed that they were headed for the islands of cape verde , islands roberto knew very well .
he had raided them a few times himself .
his bet was that they would anchor at the island of santiago , a place he would investigate .
but why would a ship from the d.e.i.c stop there ?
it did not make sense .
normally they just left the islanders to themselves , and , again , a nagging feeling settled in his gut .
but for now , all he could do was wait patiently for night time , when they would be able to get close enough .
by the time lunch was served , clouds had begun to accumulate in the clear sky .
the shoreline would not be the safest place to be with such unpromising looking clouds .
nevertheless , the heerengardt continued on its course and they were forced to follow .
with dangerously low clouds hanging over the waters , by sunset roberto knew they had trouble .
but he could not take the risk of being discovered , and he had to get rosa lee back .
she will pay for this foolishness he thought once again .
roberto , dont you think we must turn away ?
pierre asked during supper .
we are entering dangerous waters .
the seorita has had enough time to tell them about us .
we need to get away while there is still time .
roberto sat and ate his meal , tasting nothing of the delicious food .
he listened to every argument his lieutenant had , and they made sense .
but he could not leave her , even if she did betray them .
he knew their lives were in danger .
the d.e.i.c was an organization that had no tolerance for pirates and then there was the brewing storm .
would she be okay ?
the past four days , while she told him more stories , he knew the sea disaster twenty years ago still lingered in the back of her mind .
it did not matter how brave or strong she was , the upcoming storm would devastate her .
he knew that much .
he had begun to care about her , to be protective of her , fearful for her safety .
would she be all right among the sailors ?
he asked himself once again , would they treat her like the lady she is ?
if they touched herhe clenched his fists .
he did not want to think about it .
he knew what he would do but also knew the consequences of such a brutal act .
the pain and loss was unbearable at times .
he wanted her back on the contra o vento , back with him .
these were the thoughts that he struggled with .
he was also in a place where he made decisions for them all .
his men were his responsibility .
i hear you pierre , but we need to get her back .
my father will kill me if i lose her .
he will understand .
no , pierre , you know he will not .
its his laws , remember ?
and pierre sighed , shaking his head .
are we still getting her from the ship ?
yes .
and the storm ?
we better hope it will give us enough time to bring her back safely before it hits .
i will go and ready the longboat .
who will go with us ?
just us .
i dont want anyone else in danger .
pierre nodded .
no point in arguing .
physically both he and roberto were capable of doing this .
because of the storm , it would help to have some extra muscle , but he was the captain .
yes , he knew falcon .
he was as bad as they came .
it was after eight , so dark you could hardly see your hand in front of your face .
silently they approached the heerengardt .
her lanterns gave them enough light to follow and get as close as possible .
they had only this window of opportunity and they had to take it or lose rosa lee forever .
her life and theirs were at stake .
although roberto was the son of the falcon , the falcon would not hesitate to kill him for disobeying a direct order .
with the long boat prepared , ready and on the water , roberto and pierre were over the railing in no time .
the waves were higher around the boat and rocked it slightly but they were used to it .
they began rowing , with one eye on the heerengardt four miles ahead of them and one eye on the dark foreboding clouds above them .
they rowed with gentle strokes , making sure that the oars did not splash in the water as they slowly drew closer the wind picked up , working with them , but they knew the return part would be harder , and hoped that they would find her in time .
he and pierre had talked about that in detail .
they were both familiar with d.e.i.c ships .
their large scale might make it almost impossible .
it would not be easy to locate her , for she could be in numerous places .
roberto said they would have to take their chances and should play everything by ear but by the looks of it the heerengardt was quiet and the crow master was looking the other way .
finally , after another hour of rowing , they reached the ship .
making sure that the longboat was tied securely by the ropes hanging down , they left their boots in the boat .
with strong arms , they pulled themselves up onto the rope they had secured , daggers in their mouths ready for any danger .
when roberto crawled over the railing onto the deck , all was quiet .
two lanterns hung near the boatsman sleeping at the wheel .
his soft snores a sure sign of deep sleep .
eyes darting around on the lighted deck , they saw one other man sitting in the shadows , smoking his cheroot .
grey puffs released into the dark night air , away from the cabins .
they moved forward on the balls of their feet , making no sound on the sleeping ship .
their muscles were tired of the exercise but they forced themselves to move forward .
a trained eye could only see the crow master and he was looking far in the distance , hopefully not in the direction of the contra o vento .
they would have to move swiftly and not draw any attention toward themselves .
you will wait here , and i will go .
i have a good idea where she will be , roberto whispered to pierre .
although it would be quicker if they both searched on a ship this size , it was better to keep a trained eye on the men on the upper deck .
pierre could warn him of any lurking dangers and once again , roberto had to speculate about the ship and its crew .
the normal military alertness and precision were not evident .
there were no guards , and it made him wary .
the night was extremely dark and like a shadow , roberto sneaked through the shadows to the stairs leading to the lower deck where the crew was sleeping .
except for the ship moving through the relatively calm waters , no other sound filtered through .
men were hanging in their hammocks , snoring .
some men were in a drunken stupor , others slept because of exhaustion .
once again , not an expected manner of the d.e.i.c and he frowned , squatting on the balls of his feet , to make sure that everything was as it should be .
he made sure that his eyes were accustomed to the dark before he moved further .
silently he moved again and managed to pass all of the sleeping men and down the next stairs taking him deeper in the hull into the farthest point in the lower deck .
he searched behind every crate and sack until he recognized her small posture behind a large heavy crate .
to a normal eye , she could go for a young boy but his trained eye could recognize her .
the small manicured hands were a dead giveaway .
she lay in the shadows with her back to the wooden wall and stacks of bags around her .
she had tried to cover herself , but her long hair came out from under her hat and her shirt revealed more than she wouldve liked .
for a brief moment he just took in the sight .
hovering over her , he could see she was in a deep sleep and he wondered why she had not revealed herself to the men .
she could then have slept in one of the cabins in the castle , not here trying to hide away .
he hoped they hadnt done anything to her because , if they had , he would kill them .
precaution be damned .
he grimaced at the thought .
something had to have spooked her to make her keep herself hidden .
he wondered what it could have been .
when he reached her , he covered her mouth so that she could not make a sound when she awoke .
startled at the hold on her mouth she awoke and recognized him .
she moved and released a soft moan but with one swift expert strike , he knocked her unconscious and then flung her over his shoulders .
he looked around to make sure the sound did not attract any unwanted guests .
satisfied and without a word , he carried her out .
no one had moved .
she was like a feather on his shoulder , so he could easily manoeuvre up the stairs and through the sleeping men without making a sound .
staying on his toes , he quickly walked to the stairs and onto the upper deck where pierre waited .
giving him a thumb up , he let pierre know everything was okay .
again , he furrowed his brows but left it .
he could not speak to pierre at this moment because they would attract attention .
yet it was puzzling .
another three hours passed as they rowed against the wind .
pierre kept his eyes on the heerengardt at all times until they reached the contra o vento .
it was a painfully slow journey .
did you also find it very strange ?
roberto whispered when they were a safe distance away .
yes , came the reply .
an unguarded d.e.i.c ship in the middle of the ocean ?
it does not add up .
yes , i looked around while you were on the lower deck .
no guards present in a ship of that size and i really found it alarming .
what could it mean ?
not sure , but the seorita here had to know because she was hiding when i found her .
roberto said deep in thought .
really ?
and pierre raised a brow .
yes .
they row in silence for a while before pierre said well , this will be interesting to hear .
yes .
roberto watched the unconscious face , a very beautiful unconscious face sternly .
for a moment he allowed himself to grin at her bravery before the stern , blank look was back , not revealing anything of his inner turmoil .
december 24 , 1624 it has been a year since our ordeal , and here in portugal on the estate time has passed quickly .
our second christmas together as a family is already here .
so many blessings to be grateful for .
the children are growing , especially rosa lee who will one day be a beautiful young woman , a very feisty , strong willed woman , perfect in every way .
i pray that the right man will be worthy of her one day , that she will find the joy in marriage as i have found .
marriage is everything if you can share it with the one you love .
i will take great care to give her the opportunity to meet such a man .
it will be a special man who will be able to handle her , love her and respect her for who she is .
my brave little rosa lee , who brightens my days .
8 april 01 , 1625 we are expecting our second child .
the medicine woman confirmed my suspicions today .
cisco is overwhelmed once again .
in a few days manuel will be one year old .
what a beautiful , handsome boy .
he walks everywhere .
he loves being outside and amongst the animals .
everyone says he will be a farmer one day .
cisco is teaching him everything he knows .
sometimes i have to remind him the child was only one this year .
but he is convinced manuel understands him and continues with the lessons .
how could i refuse him the pleasure of being a father ?
cisco fills my days with happiness .
what more could i ask ?
the contra o vento sailed away in the opposite direction from the heerengardt .
the threatening clouds had finally released their waters the moment they had stepped back on deck .
the still unconscious seorita hung over the broad shoulders of the pirate captain .
men watched the procession as they walked down the main stairs to the lower deck .
robertos face was grim as he laid her down on her four poster bed in the middle of her cabin .
he dismissed pierre and sat for the rest of the night in the chair in front of the small mahogany desk , watching her sleeping figure .
she looked small and fragile on the oversized bed .
tired lines marked the filthy young face .
creases marred her forehead and dark circles under her eyes paled her normal rosy cheeks .
one hand rested under her cheek as she slept and he could not help but to admire her again .
when he had patted her down , he had found her pistol and knife and locked it in his trunk for safekeeping .
there were no visible signs of struggles on her , other than the fact that she was tired and he bet , hungry as well .
why did she hide ?
the captain of the vessel would have helped her unless something spooked her .
his mind was racing , realizing in how much danger she had been , and his anger rose once again , for her foolishness and the danger she had put them all in .
too angry to sleep , although his muscles ached after the strenuous exercise , he stared at her form in mens clothing .
her shapely legs drew his attention .
the curve of her breasts was visible in perfect roundness under the shirt .
three open buttons revealed her delicate skin .
his body demanded attention .
he paced the floor in discomfort and drank wine .
the room smelled like her , lavender and something sweet , a smell he did not know but had already grown accustomed to it .
his imagination was running wild with things he wanted to do to her .
when daylight coloured the water he saw her stir in her sleep .
he waited patiently for her to wake , the fear and anger still raging within .
this would be interesting .
when rosa lee awoke , she was in her cabin and the sun was just making its presence known .
tied to the bed pulling at the restrains , she tried to move , but could not .
you finally decided to join us ?
a stern , angry voice spoke directly in front of her .
she lifted her head and looked straight at him , still in a daze .
her head wanted to split in two .
the agony of the last two days , without food or water followed by the blow against her head felt like torture .
his menacing eyes piercing through her made her fearful of the man dressed in black .
his appearance was perfect .
dark hair tucked behind an ear and the meanest look she had ever seen on him .
she trembled with fear , yet was happy she was back .
she could only stare at him as she wet her drying lips , reliving the past twenty four hours .
she had quickly realized that she had made a mistake once she stepped on board of the heerengardt .
the captain was not who he said he was and there was a look of utter disgust on his face , which made his face repulsive .
when he spoke to his crew , she immediately thought of the cruel captain breno who was cruel to his crew twenty years ago .
he was abrupt and rude as he barked at everyone coming into his view .
rosa lee stayed in the background , making sure she did not attract any attention .
she followed him to the captains cabin .
he flung the d.e.i.c ensign away from him , cursing it .
when his second in command appeared , the conversation gave it all away .
she immediately ducked away into the shadows and kept quiet , listening to the angry conversation .
captain , did you find the man you were looking for ?
no , dammit !
it was another dead end .
i will find that bastard and kill him .
he gulped the contents in the glass on the table and walked away , the second following him , shutting the door behind him .
they muttered angry words , words she could not understand .
sunlight drenched the cabin , streaming in from large windows .
when the men left the cabin she stepped out of the shadows and heard a sound from the closet behind her .
she went to investigate .
before she opened the door she had her knife in her hand .
a uniformed man lay inside , tied and gagged .
his grey blond hair was dishevelled and an old wound split one cheek .
blood crusted the collar of his white shirt .
she introduced herself to him in whisper .
when she removed the gag , the man said that he was the real captain du toit and pirates had captured the ship .
she could do nothing for him .
they both agreed that she must not do anything to attract their attention since they already had killed his second in command .
she had replaced the gag after assuring him that she would do what she could to rescue him .
she crept out in the empty passageway and was ready to go the main stairs when she heard footsteps and she was forced to run down the next set of stairs .
she then went out seeking protection in the lower deck where roberto found her a day later .
she was fearful of discovery and made sure she was well hidden .
footsteps and voices filtered through the upper deck .
she could do nothing but wait once again for a moment to slip away .
her situation looked bleak and at times she had to force herself not to give in to the overwhelming thoughts of anguish .
at first she was startled when she saw roberto unexpectedly , ready to yelp with joy , but he had knocked her unconscious before she could say anything .
now he towered above her , mad as hell , clearly not in the mood to listen .
did you for one moment think that i would not notice that you were gone ?
came the clipped words laced with bottled up anger .
she could not answer him , too frightened of the man who spoke in a deadly tone .
her tongue still thick from the lack of water , she could only shake her head , squeaking .
do you want to say something ?
he raised a dark brow .
she nodded her head .
enrico came into sight and offered her some water , helping her sip it .
you cost me two days , roberto continued .
because you want to be a sailor i am going to treat you like one .
please , roberto , i know i am at fault , but listen .
i need to tell you something , she said the moment she could speak again .
i am not interested in anything you have to say at the moment .
you have placed us all in danger and i can not let it pass without punishment .
before she could react he barked out , take her to the upper deck .
roberto , what are you going to do ?
pierre asked fearfully .
teach the seorita a lesson .
roberto , i hope you are not serious about doing what i think you are going to do ?
and pierre gasped in shock .
he was the captain and he ran the ship as he saw fit .
but this .
he was taking it too far .
yes , exactly .
please , roberto , i need to tell you something .
rosa lee tried again , pleading as she struggles against the restrains , but he was so angry that he was not willing to listen .
she is a woman !
pierre raised his voice to his captain and he raised a dark brow in question .
he only received warning flashes back from the dark ochre eyes .
who disguises herself as a man , so i will treat her as one , roberto seethed .
rosa lee was afraid of the man , shivering at the coldness of his tone , not sure what he was going to do to her .
by the sound of pierre , it was something terrible .
pierre knew this tone .
his captain was not to be dissuaded , and it would be wise to be quiet .
but she was a woman .
this could simply not happen .
as they marched up the steps with her body dangling between pierre and another sailor , rosa lee tried to get pierres attention .
pierre !
the other ship was captured , we must help them her voice broke in fear .
how do you know this ?
he whispered staring at the rigid back of captain roberto who walked with long strides to the upper deck .
they are looking for someone .
they were determined to find this man her voice was thick with emotion , swallowing the cries which wanted to escape her lips .
she was scared , hanging between the men like a rag doll .
rosa lee knew she had to convince them , no matter what happened to her .
that is why i hid in the lower deck .
it was not safe there .
she swallowed when they came in the sun , looking at pierre with pleading eyes .
please believe me .
she struggled again against the hands that held her in iron grips .
roberto gave the next command the moment they stepped up onto the upper deck .
fasten her to the railing !
he barked the next order his men looked at him in horror .
was their captain out of his mind ?
surely he would not whip a woman .
it was not done , never .
yet they did as they were told , fearing the captain more at this point .
get started .
he spoke through clenched teeth , looking at the boatswain who had the whip in his hand .
the man looked at him and then at pierre with beseeching eyes .
it did not matter how hard they were .
this was a lady and you did not treat a lady like that .
are you disobeying an order , pirate ?
roberto asked stoically , eyebrows raised , his hands on his hips .
other men moved closer , relieved they were not in the boatswains shoes .
captain , i never ...
the big mans voice faltered as he watched his captain walked towards rosa lee .
roberto walked over to her and ripped her shirt from her back , exposing her soft , silky skin .
his heart missed a beat but he had to continue .
he had to be strong and punish her .
the law of the sea requires this .
captain , wait .
please listen .
pierre interrupted , touching his arm .
roberto looked at him , annoyed , his face blank .
she told me something that you need to know , captain .
he kept his voice low .
he did not want to show disrespect for the man in front of the crew , but this was important .
what is it ?
can we step aside ?
i dont want the crew to hear .
roberto kept his eyes on her as they moved away .
another man also looked at her , the lust in his eyes visible for everyone to see , if anyone did look his way .
but no one did , the play before them capturing every harden sailor .
all eyes were fixated on the woman and the captain .
yes ?
roberto looked at him , then at rosa lee , still stretched out between the ropes , her soft back exposed in the sun .
she wiggled her wrists but the ropes cut through the soft skin and red bruises formed .
roberto bit hard down on his jaw he could not afford to be soft .
leaning his head closer to his second in command , roberto strained to hear as pierre softly continued .
the heerengardt was captured .
she did not make a distress call because the men were looking for someone else .
she was hiding , hoping to get away as soon as possible .
she realized she made a mistake .
roberto , you can not flog this woman !
you will have a mutiny on your hands .
look at the men .
at first he did not want to .
seeing the worried eyes of his friend made him glance around .
they barely hid their angry glares .
the woman was still tied against the railing , struggling to loosen herself from the bonds .
then it makes sense what we saw no guards and only drunken men .
yes , roberto .
let her go .
untie her !
he roared .
the men sagged with relief .
the boatswain was the first to get to her , and he untied her .
roberto removed his jacket and wrapped it around her bare shoulders .
as she slumped down , he caught her before she hit the deck and took her to his grand cabin .
9 april 05 , 1625 we received a letter today that kayla gave birth to a healthy son on october 13 , 1624 .
rosa lee was bouncing with joy since this would make her an aunt .
chattering around the castle nonstop .
it brought back memories of betrayal and the years of abuse we had to suffer under faro .
but at the end it worked out for good .
i would never forget that moment when faro admitted that kayla was his daughter , there among every sailor and slave .
once again i felt disgraced but cisco smiled at me as if he sensed my thoughts and i could not help but to let it go .
but still it left a bitter taste in my mouth .
something i never talked about again .
to hear rosa lee chatter about her new status made me realize how far we came and that we were still alive .
enjoying the joy of motherhood and new life .
faro has paid for his sins .
with her face hidden in his shoulder and her arms around his neck , roberto walked down the steps to his cabin , enjoying her closeness .
he did not know how she felt but he could only guess .
he had humiliated her in front of pirates .
what kind of a man was he ?
this time his anger was aimed at himself .
he held her closer to his hard body , feeling her stirring .
she kept quiet , however .
back in his cabin , he set her down in a leather chair .
his eyes never left the small woman gripping the arms of the wooden arm rest .
he swallowed .
he did not know what to say , feeling small in her presence .
when she lifted her eyes to glance at him , he could only see relief .
no anger , no humiliation .
roberto expected disgust , but for some reason she did not look at him in that manner .
in a softer tone he asked tell me what you have seen .
rosa lee started to speak , still shaking after the ordeal .
she had really thought that he was going to go through with his plan .
she had never seen him so furious .
the previous day , while cooped up in the lower deck , peeking at the other pirates from her hiding place on the heerengardt , she realized roberto was in a different category from these pirates .
he had integrity and honour that the others lacked .
they talked about women as if they were scum .
roberto had never made her feel like that , neither him nor his crew .
she had always felt safe among them , but on the other ship , she had feared for her life , sitting quietly under the sails in the shadows of the hull .
too afraid to move , she never went outside for water or food , the risk too great to take .
she was brave but on the heerengardt she felt fear , out of control .
she could not hate roberto .
he had saved her .
even if he was angry and ready to flog her , he was still willing to listen .
for that she was grateful .
putting her feelings aside , she looked at him with relief written all over her face .
the fact that he had carried her , holding her tight made her feel more than safe .
she felt at home .
it was a strange feeling but one she would consider later .
there were more pressing issues at hand .
when i came on board i wanted to report you , but then i noticed the crews strange behaviour , very peculiar for a d.e.i.c .
ship .
my father has met with many of those men .
they all have a certain air of self assurance about them but this crew was eerie , scared .
that in itself i found very odd at the time .
when i reached the captains cabin , the substitute captain was fuming .
when his second in command joined him , they talked about someone they were looking for on the contra o vento , someone that they wanted to kill .
no names were mentioned , but he was very angry .
i heard a noise in the wardrobe and when they left , i peeked inside .
the real captain peek du toit was tied up and gagged .
when i removed the gag , he told me that pirates had captured them a week ago .
the man was weak but remained calm under the distress he faced .
he told me not to do something foolish and to hide .
i replaced the gag and left .
i was so afraid that i went and took cover in the safest place i could find .
thats where you found me .
her eyes filled with hopefulness , praying that her gut was right about the pirate in front of her .
his features looked sullen but still blank .
i promised him that we would help him , roberto , she pleaded again , taking his hands in hers , he looked down at their joined hands , and a faint grin appeared before it disappeared again .
he returned his gaze to her face .
you do know that we are pirates as well ?
he stated the obvious .
yes , but there is such a thing as compassion and helping those in need .
those men are in need .
we are the closest to help .
i can only hope that somewhere in that pirate heart of yours you will see the wisdom in it .
maybe you will get one hanging less for a good deed done .
she smirked .
i like her , pierre said with a wide open grin .
roberto looked at him with a glimmer of a smile , but kept his voice low .
and i suppose you have a plan ?
no , but i am sure we can come up with something .
you do realize that this will cause us to not meet our deadline .
your brothers life is on the line .
my brother will understand .
please , roberto , we need to help them .
she squeezed his hand .
we are already two days behind them and it will cost us another day or two to catch them .
besides , we do not know in which direction they went .
they could have stopped at santiago or continued to the mediterranean sea .
she smirked knowingly , letting go of his hands and raising herself .
i saw the charts on the table .
while they were talking they leaned on it .
when i looked at it , his fingerprint dent was still showing on the coast of morocco .
we are two days behind , but our ship is faster when we set full sails .
we can make up the difference .
walking to his table , she pointed at the open chart .
the men followed .
what do you think , pierre ?
shes right , we can catch up the way she said .
how many are there , besides the fake captain and his second in command ?
as far as i could see , they were ten total .
there were the men that came with them on the longboat and four who guard the men on the ship , she answered .
give the go ahead .
we are going on a rescue mission !
roberto said to pierre , who laughed at the new adventure .
roberto grinned , his anger forgotten .
when pierre barked the new orders on the upper deck the pirates were stunned .
rescue mission what absurdity was this they muttered among each other but did as they were told .
july 16 , 1625 will i ever forget the day i deliberately turned my back on qonchita , the disappointment and shock when i did nothing ?
it was a warm summer day like today , but there was nowhere to turn for shade .
the tall grasses made it difficult to see any one .
i had to make a path for the remaining group on our way to the fort .
i remembered we had stopped at this fort two years ago when our supplies ran out before we could anchor in delogao bay farther south , down the coast .
i went to investigate and took a few men with me .
they all died on the way of fever .
i myself almost died as i reached the fort .
the fever got hold of me but the doctor helped me and i lived .
i was gone for three weeks .
in that time the group we left behind had similar fates .
only six remained .
i recovered fully and the governor of the fort sent a few men with me to help .
with enough food and medication to assist the last survivors .
it took us seven days to reach them .
we stayed for a day helping the last six to gain some strength but it was not enough .
although tired we carried them weak and exhausted after the last encounter .
i had rosa lee on my back since qonchita was too weak to even carry her own child .
at one point her legs collapsed under her in pure exhaustion and we still had two days walk left .
rosa lee was asleep and i decided to stop and let the people rest .
kayla was very clingy and refused to let go of me .
i wrapped both rosa lee and kayla in my arms , sat with them in my lap , and dozed off .
the strain of carrying them and making a path was too much for my own weak body .
qonchita just sat where she collapsed , bleeding , for a few hours and i left her .
i didnt notice this or go to her aid .
when i finally woke i looked for her and saw her crying .
i tried to get away from the two young ones but kayla was determined and refused to let go .
from where i sat i could see her feet were raw once again and i turned my back .
maybe because i was so weary , nevertheless i did nothing to help her and at the end alfonso helped her .
as sick as he was he administered the ointment i had brought with me from the fort , applying it to her feet .
she was angry with me and did not talk to me while we walked to the fort .
even during the first week of our recovery at the fort she kept her distance .
in the end , fear of a spider caused her to run back to me .
when i rescued her and carried her away in my arms , i explained as best i could .
she is beautiful when angry .
i had great pleasure watching her as she went on about it , but when i kissed her into silence she was like putty in my hands .
she forgave me .
10 enrico and pierre left them alone and a silence fell between them .
rosa lee , still shaky of hunger , sat down in the captains chair , not realizing that such a thing was never done .
the past few days experience had left her numb .
the moment she stepped on that ship she knew she was wrong and even deserved the whipping , yet she was thankful that they did not follow through with it .
her father had told her on many occasions that the life of a sailor was very hard and the captains discipline was important to run a ship sufficiently .
whether it was a d.e.i.c .
or pirate ship , discipline was the only thing a captain had to keep the men in check , upholding his law at all times .
finally she spoke , i am sorry for the delay that i caused .
she looked down at her hands in her lap .
roberto walked closer to her .
kneeling in front of her , he softly said i was never so scared in my whole life because of what you did .
i was afraid that i would not see you again .
i was angry , frustrated , not knowing if you would be all right .
angry for the situation we were in and that i could not change it .
the seriousness of the situation was visible on his face and rosa lee had to swallow hard at the lump in her throat .
does this mean that i am forgiven ?
rosa lee asked softly .
never do this again !
he said brusquely .
he could not believe how vulnerable he was before her , kneeling in front of her .
he wanted to pull her closer , his body aching for her warmth next to him .
their faces were so close that he could lean in and touch those rosebud lips .
amazed at the tenderness and care in him , reflected by her own , rosa lee absently brought her hand up and trailed the scar on his face with one finger .
tell me the story , she whispered .
not much to tell .
it was a long time ago .
i killed a man who raped my sister .
this was his reminder to me .
he also spoke in a soft husky tone .
when her finger ended at his lips , he kissed it .
it is a beautiful scar .
she pressed her forehead against his , his closeness affecting her .
her body yearned for his touch .
for the moment all was forgotten .
he kissed her fingers and then her palm , removing it and placing a kiss on her mouth .
you do things to me that i have never experienced , she finally said , leaning back .
and i think i need to go .
this can never be .
pushing him aside , she stood up .
his hands brushed over her curves and his jacket fell to the ground .
she walked out , exposing creamy skin with each step .
her presence lingered in the cabin for a few seconds and when he gathered his jacket from the floor he could smell her on it .
deep in thought , he slipped into it , her warmth captured inside .
he breathed her in .
what was that all about ?
he had never knelt before a woman , let alone told anyone the story of his scar .
never had he felt this vulnerable in all his life .
he thought she merely intrigued him .
but he found it was more than just attraction or thoughts of a few minutes rolling in the hay .
he had feelings for her .
he knew she had the same struggles as he did .
her feelings for him were crystal clear for that brief second when she touched his cheek , trailing her small finger down his cheek and letting it stop at his lips .
she was fighting , refusing to recognize it .
smiling softly , he thought he would have to be patient with her .
he could understand why she was fighting it .
in her eyes , he was a pirate .
ladies like her never fell in love with pirates .
it was unheard of .
his life foretold an unsavoury future , a life no woman would be willing to share .
but then , he was not an ordinary pirate .
he could have a future with her , but he could not reveal it .
not now .
he could still feel her touch on his face .
he enjoyed the memory of the delicate caress against the scar , emotions she stirred what it did to him .
sitting down on the chair she had left , he leaned back and closed his eyes , a smile on his handsome face .
captain , we have set the sails and we are on our way to the heerengardt .
the winds look good , pierre reported after a while .
that is good .
roberto stood over the maps and studied them , but pierre knew him .
his thoughts were not with the maps .
his guess would be that they were with the beautiful seorita .
he had seen how roberto looked at her when he thought nobody was watching .
his captain was in love with her , and who could blame him ?
she was not only beautiful but very intelligent too .
she was a novelty in these times where women were only expected to have children and do household chores , staying in the background .
the seorita could speak to them about things that interested them .
she had a sharp mind .
she had proven it again with her perception about the heerengardt .
if he had half a chance , he would pursue her .
his captain would not like the competition .
a while later rosa lee came on deck .
she wore a beautiful pale green dress , her skin glowing and hair shiny , looking magnificent .
she was the picture of a stunning female , now more than before .
roberto watched her from the bridge as she stood at the railing , peering over the waters in the direction of the captive ship .
they were going at a good speed .
the winds had picked up and the ship cleaved the water , leaving a white trail behind .
at this rate we will catch up in time , roberto thought .
the stormy weather they had experienced the previous evening had fled but left them with a good strong wind blowing the sails in a sharp convex .
the wooden beams creaked under its force .
the meal bell reverberated through the ship and he walked down the steps off the bridge .
he met rosa lee at the bottom and offered his arm to walk her to the dining hall .
with a smile , she gladly accepted , placing a small hand on the sleeve of his jacket .
he inhaled .
she smelled like cinnamon and honey , his favorite smells .
are you feeling better ?
he inquired .
yes , thank you .
the bath was wonderful and enrico is very good .
i am glad you are pleased , mon petite .
he let the endearing words slip again and she smiled , looking down at her feet , the stairs steep in front of her .
once they were seated , pierre asked , what is the plan of action ?
i have given it much thought , rosa lee said immediately and both roberto and pierre grinned at the seoritas self assuredness .
this they had to hear .
the other men looked dumb founded at the three .
the moment that we are close enough to send a signal , we will send a distress call .
i , as a diversion , will go on board while you looking at both pierre and roberto will come from behind and free the captain and his crew .
easy .
she shrugged her shoulders casually .
roberto thought his heart almost stopped at the ridiculous plan .
there is no way that i will allow you to go on that ship again , said roberto abruptly , glaring at her .
now wait , roberto .
that sounds like a great plan .
no .
do you have a better idea ?
pierre asked with a grin .
his friend was smitten .
please , captain , we can help these men and i can make a better diversion than you can .
my life will be safe .
i mean , i am surrounded with d.e.i.c .
men .
there are only ten pirates .
we can take them out .
her logic was too simple for him .
how could he put her back , knowing what he had just discovered ?
all eyes were on him , the food forgotten , as they waited .
debating with himself , weighing both the pros and cons , he knew this was the best plan .
reluctantly , roberto had to agree to the plan and finally said okay .
i see that it can work , but if there is , at any time , the smallest notion that your life is in danger , we pull out .
is that clear ?
yes , clear .
both pierre and rosa lee agreed and they smiled to each other .
lets eat , said rosa lee .
i am starving .
chuckles filled the cabin even roberto revealed a grin before it disappeared again .
watching the woman eating , roberto could not believe he just agreed to this insane plan .
his mind raced , trying to find a new plan , but hers was the best .
he admitted after a few minutes .
she clearly had put a lot of thought into it and they could win .
setting the captain and his men free for a get out of jail free card he smirked .
yeah right .
the whole idea was preposterous but as he watched her it grew on him just as she grew on him .
he knew he had feelings for her but to what extent he did not want to admit .
but she brought out the best in him .
she was more than he expected and in only a short time he could not imagine giving her to the falcon .
that in itself was a thought that kept him awake often .
the whole idea of putting her in danger among the other pirates made his palms sweaty .
his heart throbbed .
so many things could go wrong .
and he would never forgive himself if she got hurt .
he watched as she listened to the conversation at the table , smiling sweetly at the men , and another emotion surged through him .
one he had never encountered before .
he frowned as she talked to pierre , who listened to her with interest .
when pierre looked at him , roberto scowled .
his second smiled and continued with the conversation .
her laughter rang through the air .
it annoyed him and he pushed his chair away , stepping out into the passageway as the door slammed behind him .
he knew he was acting childlike but he could not help himself .
he walked to his grand cabin and plopped down in his chair .
thoughts rushed through him .
come on , man .
the woman can talk to whomever she wants .
she is not married to you .
he squirmed in his chair .
seeing a glass of wine on his desk he took one huge swig and smacked his lips as the red liquid poured down his throat .
his thoughts stuck on the word married .
as if something had struck him , he briskly walked out of his cabin to the upper deck , knowing that his thoughts would be best occupied when busy .
it took them eighteen hours to catch up with the heerengardt near the north coast of morocco , at the curve where the atlantic and the mediterranean met .
it was already late and roberto decided to do it early in the morning , when most of those men would still be asleep .
he was hoping they would have a good run in with the rum barrel the previous evening .
they chose a few trusted men to go with them and brought them up to speed with the plan .
all of them were eager to help the fellow sailors , even if they were technically enemies .
just as the sun broke over the horizon the contra o vento sent a distress signal and the heerengardt answered .
the long boat had left an hour earlier with the chosen men on their way to the other side of the ship , waiting for the signal from roberto .
the longboat had lowered onto the water and rosa lee was let down with the boats man fausto accompanying her .
the spaniards short , bulky frame concealed his strength and speed , both with weapons and his fists .
he was the only man roberto trusted to protect her at all costs .
roberto thought his heart was going to stop at the sight of her .
to think that he gave in to the plan was utter madness .
he swallowed at the lump in his throat , followed pierre into the water , and swam behind the longboat to get unnoticed to the heerengardt .
they would then continue around the ship where they would meet the other men and get up with a rope fastened to their waists .
they were both masked , their identities sealed from prying people .
they were still pirates , enemies on the waters .
as they approached the ship , rosa lee made sure that her dress revealed enough to keep the captain busy .
roberto almost had a heart attack when he saw her at first .
her bosom was showing too much soft roundness for his taste , and her small waist was even more accentuated .
some of his men smiled with pleasure and he gave them angry warning looks .
to display her attributes before other men was not good at all .
it made him resentful to the whole absurd idea all over again .
and again that unknown feeling coursed through him .
it was an emotion so new to him that he did not recognize it at first , until pierre pointed it out and roberto told him to shut his mouth .
the man was pleased with the discovery of robertos envious emotions and gleeful , full of mischievous behaviour .
roberto knew he would never hear the end of this .
rosa lee made sure that the men on the heerengardts eyes were glued on her so that they would not notice the two men behind them .
the boatswain had warned her a few times to take it easy , not to fall over the side , at which she just shrugged her shoulders and continued , enjoying the adventure .
however , in reality , she was nervous and did not want to show it to roberto .
she was hiding behind the bravado .
to show so much of herself was a first .
she had never flaunted herself deliberately and felt self conscious about it , but the reaction from roberto surprised her in a good way .
when she finally got on board , the impostor greeted her keenly .
he seemed ugly as his eyes ran hungrily over her body .
she had to fight the shivers running through her .
she swallowed at the bile threatening to rise and plastered a smile on her face .
this is what she was aiming for .
distraction .
my good captain , finally we can meet .
i was distracted when you were on the ship earlier .
your fame precedes you , and your second in command is a worthy opponent .
this caused the bald man to grin pridefully and he received a stern look from the imposter .
rosa lee just stopped herself in time when a giggle wanted to erupt and continued .
when i was in distress i convinced the men to bring me here .
that captain , roberto , what a beast !
she rolled her eyes in disdain , sighed heavily at the mere thought , and touched her heart not a gentlemen at all .
i could not stay there any longer .
his hands were always groping .
definitely not a way to treat a lady , she added for effect , smiling sweetly at the ugly man whose lingering snakelike gaze was on her ample cleavage .
her hand fell at her side in mock surrender .
seorita , it is an honour to meet you !
you can be sure that we will take good care of you .
that captain did look like a beast to me , he agreed , smacking his lips , his eyes barely meeting her own as he once again fixed them on her chest .
roberto had just come over the railing when he heard the comment , and blew through his nose in disgust .
what an insult !
he thought his face in a scowl .
he glanced at rosa lee briefly , convinced that she was safe and sound .
he noticed the men surrounding her .
one tried to touch her and he balled his fists .
it was all an act , he knew , but still .
did she have to make it look so good ?
he thought angrily .
he signed to pierre that the coast was clear and turned to keep watch as he and the rest of the men followed .
each man knew what to do .
stealthily they all moved and separated .
they both slipped into the castle , where the captains cabin would be .
the remaining men went down the stairs to free the crew .
rosa lee strolled with the pirates in the opposite direction , laughing at the joke she just heard , touching the captains arm ever so delicately .
fixated with her , they hardly took note of anything else around them as she told them a story , fluttering her eyelashes provocatively .
rosa lee could not believe that she could act so tartly .
the men were drooling over her and she doubt they heard a word she said but she had to keep them occupied until roberto rescued the men .
their bodily odours wafting in her nose and she took deep breaths as she placed her hand delicately before her nose .
her heart pounded in her chest and she was sure one would notice the rapid beat but her cleavage was of greater concern to them .
one tried to touch her but she slapped him playfully and chuckled when he took his hand away sheepishly .
please hurry , roberto .
her lips tightened into a smile even though she felt uncomfortable among them .
several minutes later , the voice of the real captain roared over the deck .
scuffles broke out all around them .
rosa lee was pushed aside and against the railings and she watched as the ten pirates were captured almost simultaneously .
the whole takeover happened swiftly , without any sound of a drawn sword , and rosa lee had to admit that roberto was superb .
she could not help but to admire him as he stood there , tall dark and proud .
his eyes the only muscle that moved , the rest of his face covered behind the bandana and his hat pushed low over his face .
she wanted to run to him but knew it would be futile for if the d.e.i.c captain new who his saviors were they too would be apprehended .
the feeling of relief and wonder captured in her heart and she knew once back on the other ship she had to think about this .
held in steel grips , the pirates could not fight back .
the leader was in noticeable distress but said nothing as the real captain , peek du toit , just stared him down .
the impressive figure of the older man was intimidating to the impostors and allowed no rebuff .
the d.e.i.c crew took control , surrounding the men with no way of escape .
they were taken down below , where they would be tried and immediately hung .
there was no mercy for pirates .
i have to thank you , seorita , that you came back to help us , captain du toit said after the deck was once again under his command .
sailors scattered around as they started to do their daily chorus .
i remember your voice .
it was so quick that i thought i was dreaming , but here you are !
for eight days i was a captive in that dresser with no way of escape .
why were you on my ship in the first place ?
the captain asked in all sincerity .
pierre and roberto who stood silently in the shadows drew in their breaths , waiting for her reply .
there was a huge misunderstanding on my part about the contra o vento , and i fled from the ship in a typical lady like fit .
she chuckled with delight .
the captain set me straight quickly after he rescued me .
i must admit , i was more afraid on board your ship than on the contra o vento .
seorita , we owe you our gratitude !
is there anything that we can do for you ?
if you can deliver this letter to the d.e.i.c , it would be appreciated .
roberto had passed her a letter that morning just before she descended the jacob ladder and she gave it to the captain .
at the time , she thought it was odd for a pirate to ask this request , without any explanation .
the look he gave her was one of trust me , and he gave her a rueful smile .
her heart raced but she nodded her head in acceptance and placed it in her skirt pocket .
more things to add to the already confusing puzzle in her mind and heart .
she was falling for the pirate .
in just a few short days her heart was pulling toward the rogue .
no matter how she tried she could not ignore the feelings he stirred .
can i ask who you are ?
the captain requested .
nervously she looked in the direction of roberto who was still covered by the shadows and he nodded , the mask still covering his identity .
she laughed softly .
i am so sorry , my good captain , my manners are unforgivable .
if my mama could see me now and she chuckled , the captain grinned sheepishly .
his glance at her bosom irritated roberto but he could not fault the man .
it was enticing .
as he witnessed the conversation , making sure that he was not too obvious to the crew of the heerengardt , he could not help but admire the woman .
pierre touched his arm , which drew his attention away to a tall soldier walking directly to them .
he knew it was time to leave .
while she introduced herself to the good captain the two dark figures moved over the tackle work , down the steps and hid in the corner .
footsteps stopped just above their heads and then followed down the steps as well .
both men held their breath .
when the man stood still and looked down the passageway they waited .
pierres hand was almost touching the soldiers hat .
a few seconds passed that felt like minutes .
then he disappeared up the steps and they breathed again .
both knew it was time to get out of there before the man got it in his head to sound the alarm .
i am rosa lee almaida .
the daughter of cisco almaida ?
he asked , meeting her eyes .
yes , she nodded .
what an honour !
i have heard so much about your father .
he clapped his hands together in appreciation .
thank you captain .
she smiled sweetly up at him , keeping the captains attention as the two figures emerged on deck and slipped over the railing in record time .
well , we need to be on our way , rosa lee said .
please make sure that you deliver the letter .
it is of the utmost importance .
yes , i will .
we will be there in a months time , and then i will hand it to them .
thank you , captain .
good bye , and a safe journey to you .
you too , seorita .
they helped her back into the longboat where fausto waited for her , pierre and roberto were in the water invisible to the men on the ship .
the rest of the contras crew had already left .
shattered nerves amongst the soldiers on the heerengardt might have sparked outrage at every unfamiliar face they set their eyes on .
the rescuers thought it wise to withdraw quickly .
rosa lee smiled as she sat down , her hand in faustos as he helped her to take a seat .
her dress puffed all around her .
clouded in green taffeta this emphasised the beauty with in .
proudly she sat in the long boat , shoulders straight , as fausto took the oars and started to row away from the ship .
she smiled and waved at the men on the ship and thought there was no real danger in this adventure .
she held both the sides of the boat , peering over the waters with a small smile .
roberto looked at her with curiosity .
from his place in the water he could not help but to admire her .
she surprised him almost every day , and there was not a scared bone in her body .
she intrigued him more and more .
life will definitely not be boring with her around , he thought as he smiled , his eyes lingering on her enticing bosom .
11 watching the woman eating , roberto could not believe he just agreed to this insane plan .
his mind raced , trying to find a new plan , but hers was the best .
he admitted after a few minutes .
she clearly had put a lot of thought into it and they could win .
setting the captain and his men free for a get out of jail free card he smirked .
yeah right .
the whole idea was preposterous but as he watched her it grew on him just as she grew on him .
he knew he had feelings for her but to what extent he did not want to admit .
but she brought out the best in him .
she was more than he expected and in only a short time he could not imagine giving her to the falcon .
that in itself was a thought that kept him awake often .
the whole idea of putting her in danger among the other pirates made his palms sweaty .
his heart throbbed .
so many things could go wrong .
and he would never forgive himself if she got hurt .
he watched as she listened to the conversation at the table , smiling sweetly at the men , and another emotion surged through him .
one he had never encountered before .
he frowned as she talked to pierre , who listened to her with interest .
when pierre looked at him , roberto scowled .
his second smiled and continued with the conversation .
her laughter rang through the air .
it annoyed him and he pushed his chair away , stepping out into the passageway as the door slammed behind him .
he knew he was acting childlike but he could not help himself .
he walked to his grand cabin and plopped down in his chair .
thoughts rushed through him .
come on , man .
the woman can talk to whomever she wants .
she is not married to you .
he squirmed in his chair .
seeing a glass of wine on his desk he took one huge swig and smacked his lips as the red liquid poured down his throat .
his thoughts stuck on the word married .
as if something had struck him , he briskly walked out of his cabin to the upper deck , knowing that his thoughts would be best occupied when busy .
it took them eighteen hours to catch up with the heerengardt near the north coast of morocco , at the curve where the atlantic and the mediterranean met .
it was already late and roberto decided to do it early in the morning , when most of those men would still be asleep .
he was hoping they would have a good run in with the rum barrel the previous evening .
they chose a few trusted men to go with them and brought them up to speed with the plan .
all of them were eager to help the fellow sailors , even if they were technically enemies .
just as the sun broke over the horizon the contra o vento sent a distress signal and the heerengardt answered .
the long boat had left an hour earlier with the chosen men on their way to the other side of the ship , waiting for the signal from roberto .
the longboat had lowered onto the water and rosa lee was let down with the boats man fausto accompanying her .
the spaniards short , bulky frame concealed his strength and speed , both with weapons and his fists .
he was the only man roberto trusted to protect her at all costs .
roberto thought his heart was going to stop at the sight of her .
to think that he gave in to the plan was utter madness .
he swallowed at the lump in his throat , followed pierre into the water , and swam behind the longboat to get unnoticed to the heerengardt .
they would then continue around the ship where they would meet the other men and get up with a rope fastened to their waists .
they were both masked , their identities sealed from prying people .
they were still pirates , enemies on the waters .
as they approached the ship , rosa lee made sure that her dress revealed enough to keep the captain busy .
roberto almost had a heart attack when he saw her at first .
her bosom was showing too much soft roundness for his taste , and her small waist was even more accentuated .
some of his men smiled with pleasure and he gave them angry warning looks .
to display her attributes before other men was not good at all .
it made him resentful to the whole absurd idea all over again .
and again that unknown feeling coursed through him .
it was an emotion so new to him that he did not recognize it at first , until pierre pointed it out and roberto told him to shut his mouth .
the man was pleased with the discovery of robertos envious emotions and gleeful , full of mischievous behaviour .
roberto knew he would never hear the end of this .
rosa lee made sure that the men on the heerengardts eyes were glued on her so that they would not notice the two men behind them .
the boatswain had warned her a few times to take it easy , not to fall over the side , at which she just shrugged her shoulders and continued , enjoying the adventure .
however , in reality , she was nervous and did not want to show it to roberto .
she was hiding behind the bravado .
to show so much of herself was a first .
she had never flaunted herself deliberately and felt self conscious about it , but the reaction from roberto surprised her in a good way .
when she finally got on board , the impostor greeted her keenly .
he seemed ugly as his eyes ran hungrily over her body .
she had to fight the shivers running through her .
she swallowed at the bile threatening to rise and plastered a smile on her face .
this is what she was aiming for .
distraction .
my good captain , finally we can meet .
i was distracted when you were on the ship earlier .
your fame precedes you , and your second in command is a worthy opponent .
this caused the bald man to grin pridefully and he received a stern look from the imposter .
rosa lee just stopped herself in time when a giggle wanted to erupt and continued .
when i was in distress i convinced the men to bring me here .
that captain , roberto , what a beast !
she rolled her eyes in disdain , sighed heavily at the mere thought , and touched her heart not a gentlemen at all .
i could not stay there any longer .
his hands were always groping .
definitely not a way to treat a lady , she added for effect , smiling sweetly at the ugly man whose lingering snakelike gaze was on her ample cleavage .
her hand fell at her side in mock surrender .
seorita , it is an honour to meet you !
you can be sure that we will take good care of you .
that captain did look like a beast to me , he agreed , smacking his lips , his eyes barely meeting her own as he once again fixed them on her chest .
roberto had just come over the railing when he heard the comment , and blew through his nose in disgust .
what an insult !
he thought his face in a scowl .
he glanced at rosa lee briefly , convinced that she was safe and sound .
he noticed the men surrounding her .
one tried to touch her and he balled his fists .
it was all an act , he knew , but still .
did she have to make it look so good ?
he thought angrily .
he signed to pierre that the coast was clear and turned to keep watch as he and the rest of the men followed .
each man knew what to do .
stealthily they all moved and separated .
they both slipped into the castle , where the captains cabin would be .
the remaining men went down the stairs to free the crew .
rosa lee strolled with the pirates in the opposite direction , laughing at the joke she just heard , touching the captains arm ever so delicately .
fixated with her , they hardly took note of anything else around them as she told them a story , fluttering her eyelashes provocatively .
rosa lee could not believe that she could act so tartly .
the men were drooling over her and she doubt they heard a word she said but she had to keep them occupied until roberto rescued the men .
their bodily odours wafting in her nose and she took deep breaths as she placed her hand delicately before her nose .
her heart pounded in her chest and she was sure one would notice the rapid beat but her cleavage was of greater concern to them .
one tried to touch her but she slapped him playfully and chuckled when he took his hand away sheepishly .
please hurry , roberto .
her lips tightened into a smile even though she felt uncomfortable among them .
several minutes later , the voice of the real captain roared over the deck .
scuffles broke out all around them .
rosa lee was pushed aside and against the railings and she watched as the ten pirates were captured almost simultaneously .
the whole takeover happened swiftly , without any sound of a drawn sword , and rosa lee had to admit that roberto was superb .
she could not help but to admire him as he stood there , tall dark and proud .
his eyes the only muscle that moved , the rest of his face covered behind the bandana and his hat pushed low over his face .
she wanted to run to him but knew it would be futile for if the d.e.i.c captain new who his saviors were they too would be apprehended .
the feeling of relief and wonder captured in her heart and she knew once back on the other ship she had to think about this .
held in steel grips , the pirates could not fight back .
the leader was in noticeable distress but said nothing as the real captain , peek du toit , just stared him down .
the impressive figure of the older man was intimidating to the impostors and allowed no rebuff .
the d.e.i.c crew took control , surrounding the men with no way of escape .
they were taken down below , where they would be tried and immediately hung .
there was no mercy for pirates .
i have to thank you , seorita , that you came back to help us , captain du toit said after the deck was once again under his command .
sailors scattered around as they started to do their daily chorus .
i remember your voice .
it was so quick that i thought i was dreaming , but here you are !
for eight days i was a captive in that dresser with no way of escape .
why were you on my ship in the first place ?
the captain asked in all sincerity .
pierre and roberto who stood silently in the shadows drew in their breaths , waiting for her reply .
there was a huge misunderstanding on my part about the contra o vento , and i fled from the ship in a typical lady like fit .
she chuckled with delight .
the captain set me straight quickly after he rescued me .
i must admit , i was more afraid on board your ship than on the contra o vento .
seorita , we owe you our gratitude !
is there anything that we can do for you ?
if you can deliver this letter to the d.e.i.c , it would be appreciated .
roberto had passed her a letter that morning just before she descended the jacob ladder and she gave it to the captain .
at the time , she thought it was odd for a pirate to ask this request , without any explanation .
the look he gave her was one of trust me , and he gave her a rueful smile .
her heart raced but she nodded her head in acceptance and placed it in her skirt pocket .
more things to add to the already confusing puzzle in her mind and heart .
she was falling for the pirate .
in just a few short days her heart was pulling toward the rogue .
no matter how she tried she could not ignore the feelings he stirred .
can i ask who you are ?
the captain requested .
nervously she looked in the direction of roberto who was still covered by the shadows and he nodded , the mask still covering his identity .
she laughed softly .
i am so sorry , my good captain , my manners are unforgivable .
if my mama could see me now and she chuckled , the captain grinned sheepishly .
his glance at her bosom irritated roberto but he could not fault the man .
it was enticing .
as he witnessed the conversation , making sure that he was not too obvious to the crew of the heerengardt , he could not help but admire the woman .
pierre touched his arm , which drew his attention away to a tall soldier walking directly to them .
he knew it was time to leave .
while she introduced herself to the good captain the two dark figures moved over the tackle work , down the steps and hid in the corner .
footsteps stopped just above their heads and then followed down the steps as well .
both men held their breath .
when the man stood still and looked down the passageway they waited .
pierres hand was almost touching the soldiers hat .
a few seconds passed that felt like minutes .
then he disappeared up the steps and they breathed again .
both knew it was time to get out of there before the man got it in his head to sound the alarm .
i am rosa lee almaida .
the daughter of cisco almaida ?
he asked , meeting her eyes .
yes , she nodded .
what an honour !
i have heard so much about your father .
he clapped his hands together in appreciation .
thank you captain .
she smiled sweetly up at him , keeping the captains attention as the two figures emerged on deck and slipped over the railing in record time .
well , we need to be on our way , rosa lee said .
please make sure that you deliver the letter .
it is of the utmost importance .
yes , i will .
we will be there in a months time , and then i will hand it to them .
thank you , captain .
good bye , and a safe journey to you .
you too , seorita .
they helped her back into the longboat where fausto waited for her , pierre and roberto were in the water invisible to the men on the ship .
the rest of the contras crew had already left .
shattered nerves amongst the soldiers on the heerengardt might have sparked outrage at every unfamiliar face they set their eyes on .
the rescuers thought it wise to withdraw quickly .
rosa lee smiled as she sat down , her hand in faustos as he helped her to take a seat .
her dress puffed all around her .
clouded in green taffeta this emphasised the beauty with in .
proudly she sat in the long boat , shoulders straight , as fausto took the oars and started to row away from the ship .
she smiled and waved at the men on the ship and thought there was no real danger in this adventure .
she held both the sides of the boat , peering over the waters with a small smile .
roberto looked at her with curiosity .
from his place in the water he could not help but to admire her .
she surprised him almost every day , and there was not a scared bone in her body .
she intrigued him more and more .
life will definitely not be boring with her around , he thought as he smiled , his eyes lingering on her enticing bosom .
12 after their daring undertaking , they returned safely from the heerengardt and were back to their normal routine , on the way to the falcon with much lost time to make up .
roberto reminded rosa lee that if anything of that sort happened again she would face a severe flogging without hesitation .
she had to confess that she was more afraid of roberto now , after he had rescued her .
his dark eyes had menacingly reinforced to her his stern warning .
even more than remembering those brutes she was among on the heerengardt , her heart still stopped when thoughts of the previous day entered her mind .
thoughts that roberto was serious when he had fastened her to the railing threw her heart into turmoil .
she had trembled so much from shock that she did not even feel ashamed of her exposure in front of the crew .
her brothers shirt had covered her chest and only her back had been bared .
to be so close to a flogging would make her think twice before another attempt .
rosa lee realized that although abducted and prisoner of roberto she had nothing to fear from him except if she crossed him .
this man might like her .
she had seen the looks of interest on his face , but he was still a pirate , the son of the falcon a fierce and cruel man .
respect and discipline were of the utmost importance .
she had a lot of time for herself and spent most of it on the upper deck reading or walking .
the cabin was too confining and small for her to breathe properly .
she liked to watch them all working on the deck , repairing and cleaning the sails and all the tackle , keeping the ship well maintained .
most times , she would study the man roberto from underneath her lashes as she continued with her needlework or reading .
she admired the way his men respected him , obeying his instructions to the smallest detail .
though maybe they did it out of fear most times , she sensed a genuine respect toward him .
he was not afraid of doing the small , mundane stuff with them .
she loved the way he laughed without any care , interacting with them on competition days , climbing like rats into the ropes to see who would be first .
his strength and fitness attracted her so that she openly stared at him .
during their off times , the crew would ask her to tell another story and she gladly accommodated them .
on one occasion she saw robertos strictness with a man who was lazy on the job , but he still managed to be kind to him .
the story it reminded her of , had made a huge impression on her young mind .
the captain that led us was a cruel man .
he was always seeking for ways of making life difficult for the crew , especially my father , the big giant , she smiled , missing the man who played such a big role in her growing up years .
when i first saw that giant man after we came aboard in india , i , at the tender age of four , ran to him and gave him a huge hug .
first , he looked lonely and sad and that attracted me to him .
secondly , his whole posture was one that promised safety .
at first he didnt want to speak to me , shooing me away , but he couldnt resist my childish charm .
she chuckled while the men grinned .
i continued speaking to him because , in my young heart , i was desperate for a fathers touch .
however , without me knowing it , i put him in danger .
at first , the captain said it was okay because my mother was upset .
when she overheard another sailor saying that he would be flogged , she pleaded on ciscos behalf , but as i already said , the captain was a cruel man .
sadness shadowed her eyes .
the next morning he was tied to the ropes and flogged .
ten lashes because he answered a few questions !
my mother tried to hide it from me , but i did see it .
my young heart was aching for the big man and i ran away and cried where she could not see me .
she dabbed away the moisture from her eyes and continued .
after the storm and the shipwreck we landed on a strip of white sand .
while on land , people became sick or were so tired of the long walk that they just lay down in defeat .
the captain refused to take care of them and left them behind .
sometimes you could hear the screams of these people as wild animals attacked and killed them .
he would laugh about it .
it would anger cisco but he kept quiet , his back still painful after another lashing because he had saved my mother had saved all of us .
food was very scarce .
the giant wanted to go out and hunt , but the captain refused to give them any ammunition .
it was more precious than gold at that time and as he said , he was not going to waste good bullets on animals .
some literally starved to death .
we had only the plants around us to eat .
we ate leaves and bark , but some would become so sick from cramps with the unnatural diet , that they were left behind to die by the cruelty of the animals we could hear all around us .
roberto sat close by and listened , watching her as she relived those days , all the mens attention on her .
i remember one day we came across an empty village and they searched around to gather some food .
suddenly shots broke the silence and we saw the captain looking frantically around and shooting blindly into the thick bushes .
when my mother and father went to investigate , they found a young pregnant woman killed .
they were devastated at the cruelty of this man but they could do nothing to prevent this senseless killing .
after that , he found stray dogs , grilled them and forced us to eat .
my mother refused and father went back to the village later that night looking for food , which he found and brought to us .
this man , our captain , finally died after he himself became mad with the fever that killed most of the group .
he wanted to kill father in his delirious state .
out of self defence , father had to kill him .
she closed her eyes , the images still so clear in her mind .
my father took over the role of captain and life became easier .
the people had a great respect for him .
under his leadership no one was left behind .
no one was hungry if he could help it .
she had to brush a tear away , missing both of her parents extremely .
tell us another one .
how were you saved ?
one of the men asked .
silence ruled on the ship as men listened to her .
a few could tell their own stories of that hard savage country , but it was nicer to listen to the young woman .
her voice was soothing to their hardened hearts .
father had to leave us at one stage .
the group was very tired and weak from weeks without any nutrition .
food was very scarce , so he decided to go before us and explore the land closer to the coast .
by his calculations , we had to be close to a fort .
mozambique was still far off .
if he could get a ship at the fort , it could take us to mozambique and bring everyone to safety quicker .
he left another sailor , who was , and still is , a very good friend , in charge of the group .
before he left , he set some traps , in the hopes that small animals could be caught to prepare as meals .
he was gone for four weeks .
we later found out that the search party , consisting of thirteen men , all came down with fever and ten died on the way .
when they reached the fort , my father himself became very sick .
after he regained his health , he arranged for a ship that was willing to wait for us and came back with enough food .
by the time , my father finally returned with the necessary food supply , we were all literally at the doorstep of death .
the fever plagued our group as well and one by one , people died .
my mother and half sister were the only two able to stand , but they were exhausted in caring for everyone .
my mother became so thin that father did not recognize her at first , and when he did , he cried so much .
she closed her eyes , seeing her mothers skeletal figure with pale blue skin stretched thinly over it .
the image imprinted in her mind .
it was painful to see them in that state .
at that point , they did not care that my biological father was still around .
they just held each other , longing for the comfort that they could only find with each other .
after he buried the dead and rested , father took us back , carrying me on his back .
five days later , we were at the fort .
the forts occupants helped us to get enough rest and decent food and water to sustain us so we could go onto the ship .
two days later , another storm hit us and once again , we had to abandon the ship .
my biological father died during that storm .
he threw himself from the ship into the whirlpool of angry waters , knowing he was losing his mind .
she swallowed again at the memories of that man .
she could not even remember what he looked like anymore .
his way of life finally caught up with him .
the captain of the fort helped us again and for a whole week , we could rest and have decent food .
after losing the others , father decided that he needed to go to mozambique to get help .
he meant to travel alone on foot .
the group decided they would go with him and not stay behind .
my mother was the first to refuse to let him go alone .
she did not want to be apart from him any longer .
we all walked along the coast line until we reached mozambique a week later , this time without any difficulties .
the governor was good to us and helped us to get on our feet again .
regaining our strength with a great deal of rest and well balanced meals made the world of difference .
another month passed by before a ship passed that was willing to take us back to portugal .
how long did it take you to get back ?
another sailor asked .
two years in total since we left india and reached portugal , she replied .
will you ever go back there ?
never .
the memories still haunt me .
my mother and father took great care in helping me forget , but i have learnt to take it day by day .
mostly the faces of those people that stayed behind in fear and trembling haunt me .
i didnt fear the savages so much as the cruelty of the captain to my father .
it was very real .
when the ship went down the first time and we reached the shore father built a hut for us because we did not know how long we would stay there .
the captain hoped that another ship would pass but after a week it did not happen and the food was already scarce .
the search teams stayed away for longer and longer times .
my biological father decided he was going to stay in our hut while we were on the beach .
my mother refused but he tried to overpower her .
father stepped in when he heard her scream for help and saved her .
he received a flogging because of that from the captain .
those are the things that i struggle with the most .
why do you say that your biological father wanted to rape your mother ?
werent they married ?
the men asked in confusion .
yes , but my mother was forced into the marriage by her parents .
on their wedding night he forced himself on her and nine months later i was born .
my mother never forgave him for that and she never allowed him to touch her again .
when he saw that there were feelings between the sailor and my mother he was jealous and wanted to try again again with the same brutality .
for the hardened pirates it was difficult to comprehend .
they were used to taking what they wanted , even by force , but when injustice was done by the rich , they could not fathom it .
those were the people who dictated how they all should live , yet they still were capable of doing such cruelties to their own .
there is no honour in that .
13 another week passed before a storm hit them .
heavy rains fell like buckets from the sky onto them and the strong winds blew them around like a feather on the ocean .
rosa lee had to tie ropes around herself to stay on top of the deck , trying very hard not to panic as the water crashed over them .
pierre tried several times to convince her to go below deck but she refused .
the stifling cabin would not become her coffin .
when the first heavy rain fell she came topside , fear gripping her thoughts .
she stayed in the middle as men scattered around her to tie the equipment to the rails .
bravely she watched as the waves pounded down on them , roberto barking orders through the thunderous clouds .
he could barely hear his voice as a whisper but it did not stop the men from doing their work .
when the pounding became uncontrollable she decided to tie herself down .
waves higher than the ship fell on them all with crushing strength .
men rushed over the deck as water ran like strong currents over the rolling deck .
everyone was drenched , tired and cold but they could not slacken and during this time after another brutal crash rosa lee was swept into the ocean .
the rope and a part of the ships railing were still tied around her .
shock and fear gripped her heart the moment she plunged into the dark angry depths .
she tried desperately to untangle herself but it was futile .
her chest burned and with one last desperate attempt she reached out her hand to be pulled back in , losing all consciousness .
the cry went out that a man was overboard .
roberto rushed over to see who it was .
his heart raced as alexi yelled that it was rosa lee .
without any thought , he tied a rope around his waist and dove into the whirlpool of dark waters .
praying to god above to save her as the dark waters covered his body he searched the darkness for the fragile body .
with the first few attempts , he could not find her .
it was pitch black as waves continue to crash down over him , burning his eyes and lungs .
desperately he kicked around him .
men brought lanterns closer and as the glimmer of the light fell on the dark waters .
he finally saw her pale blue dress bobbing in the swells , her head disappearing at an alarming rate into the dark depths .
he had to go after her .
her dress was too heavy for her to stay afloat on the water .
kicking with everything he had within him , he followed the lifeless body .
when he reached her , he pulled the rope , indicating that they could pull them up .
steadily the sailors pulled them in .
breaking through the waters surface he sucked in huge gulps of air as more water broke over them .
he swallowed mouthfuls of the salty water .
finally , they reached safety on the rolling deck .
men grabbed them and hoisted them over the railing .
getting his footing , roberto laid the lifeless body down .
he pounded on her back out of desperation to get the water out her lungs and much needed air in .
her face was a grey blue and water dripped down her bruised face .
he brushed her hair away , trying to do whatever he could to get her to live , even slapping her face but nothing happened .
he called out her name in desperation .
cold and lifeless , she lay in front of him , and he thought his life was over .
the ropes around her had cut into her flesh and he had to cut them away .
the flesh on her shoulder was slashed open where she had scraped against wood and nails , covering the normally creamy skin in red blood .
she looked terrible .
roberto panicked for the first time in his life , the storm forgotten , as he was fixated on her .
he called for the doctor while gripping her body to him , slapping her face and whispering how much he loved her .
everything happened so fast , the roaring sounds of the storm vanishing as his heart pounded in his chest .
he loved her .
the concept emerged within his heart and he had no time to tell her .
but there was no time to ponder this new revelation .
she was lifeless and pale grey .
the doctor rushed to her side , working over her .
finally she gave that one desperate gasp for air , coughing up water , making it run from her mouth and nose , and breathing in the life giving oxygen .
roberto was so relieved that he grabbed her body in a fierce embrace , kissing the ice cold face with desperate kisses .
over the past few weeks , he really had started to care for her and when the true reflection of his heart shimmered through , he did not care who saw him .
he wanted to tell her , his face adorned in a smile in the midst of the still raging storm .
you are hurting me , she coughed out , and the doctor grinned .
sorry , he replied in a whisper .
she smiled and fell into a deep sleep .
shocked , he looked at the doctor but he squeezed his shoulder .
it is all right .
she will be fine .
the doctor wanted to carry her but roberto just lifted her in his arms and carried her to her cabin .
he brushed soft kisses over her face , his heart too big for his chest .
when he placed her on the bed , he thought she was the most stunning woman he had ever met .
rosa lee almaida looked fragile and small , but he did not see that .
he only saw her beauty gripping his heart .
the markings of the rope on her shoulder were red and swollen .
her dress was torn and they knew they would have to get it off and as he held her , peeling the wet , torn fabric from her body , he could not help but to look at her , appreciating the curves in front of him .
the good doctor spoke sternly and he let her down , covering the body with a blanket .
we will have to hope that she does not get an infection in that shoulder .
the doctor looked closer and found a broken nail imbedded in her shoulder .
roberto brought a light closer while the doctor searched in his bag .
he pulled tweezers out , dipping them in rum he had with him , and pulled the nail out .
she flinched , still unconscious .
blood streamed from her shoulder and roberto gasped softly .
roberto watched as the doctor worked on her .
he put a few stitches in the shoulder and bandaged it with a white cloth .
the rest of the bruises and cuts he disinfected and placed a powder on them before he closed them as well .
her face was bruised and swollen but the doctor assured him that would go away .
the cuts would not become permanent scars and for that , he was grateful .
that whole night , despite robertos tiredness , he sat with her after the doctor left .
pierre brought him some dry clothes and he towelled himself down , slumping into the chair next to her bed .
the storm calmed down about an hour later .
sometime he dozed off because , when he woke the sun was streaming into the cabin and she was looking at him , smiling .
what a welcome sight .
i owe you thanks for saving me .
her voice was still rough from the near drowning .
can i give you some water ?
he asked as he came closer , squinting his eyes .
they were still burning from the salt water .
yes , please .
i hear the storm has calmed down .
is there much damage to the ship ?
it is manageable .
nothing that we can not repair .
he smiled back , his heart racing at her smile .
the paleness had made way for colour and she looked beautiful against the white sheets .
her dark hair was dry and dishevelled , but that made her more appealing to him .
how do you feel ?
tired , stiff and aching all over my body , but happy to be alive .
i remember you dove into the waters to rescue me .
you are a real hero .
how will i ever repay you ?
by allowing me to love you , he said without thought .
she looked at him in wonder , this man that she was trying very hard to understand .
he loved her .
a pirate had fallen in love with her .
how was this possible ?
i still hate you for what you have done to me and my parents .
i know .
however , it does not change the fact that i have feelings for you .
last night confirmed it .
for me , there will be no one else but you , he said with conviction as he came closer and knelt before her , his eyes trained on her with all the emotions he felt .
he wanted her to see it .
he wanted to convince her as he took her hand and brought it to his lips .
she was stunned at his confession and had no reply as she saw the tenderness in his eyes .
love was prominent in the ochre depths , and she stared back into those depths , her future brightly shining as he opened his heart .
her heart raced as she struggled to sit up , forgetting the pain of her body .
she was just bathing in his revelation .
the hate that she felt for him had melted away and in its place love shone in the depths of her own eyes .
she touched his cheek , tracing the scar once again and when her finger stopped at the corner of his lips he kissed it .
please let me love you , he whispered before his lips touched her lips .
she closed her eyes , just revelling in his touch , his tenderness .
her heart sped up another notch .
softly she sighed and leaned into him .
he captured her mouth with a desperate plea , until he pulled her closer and she flinched in pain .
withdrawing , he laid her down , the love shining unmistakable , and she smiled .
you need to give me some time .
this is very confusing to me , she finally said .
i find your company pleasant and not once did i feel afraid while with you .
you always treat me with respect and i admire you for the captain you are .
this does not change the fact that you are still a pirate and that i am the price of a sick scheme .
he stood up and sat next to her on the bed , taking her other hand , clutching the two together in his warm hands and said , not everything is as it seems .
what do you mean ?
she asked , looking up to him , eyes wide .
i am going to ask you to trust me .
i will never hurt you intentionally .
there are many things happening in the background that i can not tell you about , but if you can trust me , it will be a great start .
love will come .
you are not indifferent to me , and that much i know .
he kissed her hands for a second time .
her fingers tingled under his touch .
again she looked at him , perplexed , allowing herself to enjoy the kiss .
his voice was soft and soothing .
again , she reached out , touching the scar on his face .
it made him even more attractive to her .
her eyes showed her heart and he leaned over , brushing his lips over her face .
she closed her eyes , enjoying the closeness of him , her heart racing .
when he lifted his head he said softly , i love you , rosa lee almaida .
she smiled , her body trembling with exhaustion and excitement .
she relaxed into the softness of the mattress .
he could see that her eyes wanted to close .
her tiredness was still evident on her .
he bent over , placing again a kiss on her forehead and said , i will leave for a while so that you can sleep .
later i will be back and we can give you some food to eat .
there is something we need to discuss .
she nodded and dozed off into a deep sleep , a soft smile on the beautiful face .
he smiled , stroking the bluish cheek before he walked out of her cabin .
the smile on his face reflected his heart .
he covered a yawn as he entered his own cabin .
he was tired to the bone .
several hours later , awakened by the most delicious smells filling her cabin , she opened her eyes .
when she tried to move , pain shot up into her shoulder and she moaned .
roberto rushed over to her .
are you okay , my rosa ?
my shoulder hurts , she said hoarsely .
the doctor said your shoulder looks much better and there is no sign of infection but it will take a while to heal .
the nails did do some damage on your shoulder , he explained .
thanks , roberto , for taking such good care of me .
she smiled again .
a lady can get use to this .
he bent over and kissed her .
this was not a dream .
she thought she had dreamt all of it but now that he repeated the words and showed it by taking care of her , she knew it had to be true .
i would love to take care of you always , he said softly , his eyes darker than normal , his breath warm against her skin .
she leaned forward and kissed him softly .
see , there is hope for me , he chuckled , helping her to sit up , draping a robe over her naked shoulders and brushing against the soft skin .
their eyes locked .
the blush that appeared on her face was the most appealing thing he had ever seen .
he smiled .
beautiful .
he cupped the bruised face .
i love you .
i thought it was a dream .
her eyes wide in wonder no dream , my rosa .
and he kissed her on the cheek this is real .
i have to admit it caught me off guard but once i accepted the feeling i could not keep it for myself .
he touched her cheek softly .
do you believe me ?
sheepishly she nodded her head as she stared up to him , her heart racing but her mind still in turmoil .
yes , i believe you , she finally said and he grinned .
walking to the table , he brought the food over and helped her to eat .
she was not as tired anymore and they could talk a few minutes before pierre called him away to attend to a matter on the upper deck .
later , after the doctor visited , she dozed off in a restful sleep and when she woke enrico helped her wash her hair and she lay in the warm bath , careful not to dampen the bandaged shoulder , soaking the stiffness away .
her body stung , but it felt good to be clean again .
she wiped the salt water from her body .
her face was swollen but enrico ensured her she still look beautiful .
all through the afternoon she thought about roberto and his feelings for her .
he asked her to trust him and she knew she did trust him .
but would that be love , to respond to the love she could clearly see in his own eyes ?
he said he wanted to discuss something and he was quite serious .
what could it be ?
when the evening bell rang she was at her place at the dining table .
her eyes met his briefly and she could feel her heart leap .
she smiled at him and he returned the smile just before one man captured his attention .
she was tired but happy .
her shoulder throbbed but it could not smother her heart rate every time she looked at him or listened to his strong , calming voice .
the men were glad to see her , bringing her up to date with the condition of the ship as if she was a part of them .
she listened intently , enjoying the food set before her .
roberto could not help but sit and stare at her with a sheepish grin on his face .
everyone knew his feelings , since he had confessed it loudly enough .
that was his own stupidity , but it was no use in fighting it .
he knew from the moment he saw her in the harbour of lisbon he had lost his heart .
and it had almost cost her life for him to recognize his feelings for her .
now he was not willing to let her go and he hoped that she would trust him enough to protect her the best way possible .
once she was in the falcons hands there would be no way of protecting her .
he had to act while still on the open seas .
but to do that he needed her trust and love .
once he was on the upper deck the men had been congratulating him the whole day .
there was much bantering among the men , which he took with a gracious smile , accepting it as part of his life .
now as he watched her he knew what he was about to offer to her was the only way to protect her and he was willing to do it .
later she excused herself stifling a yawn behind a hand and roberto knew this would not be the best time to talk to her about this important subject .
this would change both their lives in an instant .
he followed making sure she was safe in her cabin before he too returned to his grand cabin to bring his journal up to date .
14 several days later rosa lee was nearly healed after the storm .
the bruises on her face were almost completely gone and the shoulder was without pain although still tender to the touch .
the rest of the bruises were now something of the past and the relationship between roberto and rosa lee had grown .
she was now more aware of him as a man .
his constant companionship convincing her that he was genuine in his feelings .
his courting was obvious as he spent time with her , making sure her needs were met .
what amazed her was that he did not care what the men said in passing .
they joked about his affections when they were on the upper deck .
the hardened pirate was all soft and mellow in her presence and she learned more about him during this time .
still he did not speak about the thing he wanted to ask her .
she could see how he stopped himself on several occasions and when she asked him about this he said he was waiting for her to heal completely which she thought was considerate of him .
but still it kept her wakeful most nights , her feelings in turmoil .
one thing she knew was that she was not indifferent to him as he had put it .
she cared about him .
she felt safe in his presence .
the man captured her thoughts as days went by and their destination came closer and closer .
she and pierre also developed a friendship under the vigilance of roberto .
the three spoke about life at sea , the stars and many more subjects in great depth .
roberto was always taking care of her , which caused a lot of banter between the two friends .
their relationship had been born a few years back when roberto had saved pierres life .
one could not miss the respect and devotion between the two .
they knew each other well .
one evening , just after the meal , roberto had to attend to some paperwork in his cabin and she went out on the upper deck to stroll in the moonlight .
by now , her wounds had healed .
she was left with a scar on her shoulder , the only reminder of that night , a night filled with fear , but also with the revelation of robertos love for her .
the doctor assured her that with time it too would fade .
she kept her hair over the shoulder to cover it from public view .
twice roberto removed the soft strands to touch the deep pink scar , his eyes smouldering with passion .
the previous evening while taking her for a stroll he once again did so and planted a soft kiss on it .
his lips barely brushed her skin and the whole act left her breathless .
she wondered how it would feel to be loved by him .
there was no rush in his action as he stroked her neck and shoulder and told her how beautiful she looked .
she was lost in his eyes and when the moment passed she felt deprived , her body shivering at the loss .
she loved the evening walks the sea breeze in her long hair , the sound of the ship cleaving the waters .
it always made her feel that she was a part of something bigger .
over the past few days she and roberto became good friends .
he never mentioned his feelings again and she left it there , searching her own heart for the feelings she had for him .
she told him about their life in portugal as landowners , the tension among the people , and other landowners not listening to the complaints .
the villagers had caused a few funny moments , which she told with zeal .
she really missed them all .
every night they would stroll on deck , enjoying the night air .
sometimes he would tell her something funny that had happened during the day that made her laugh loudly .
one night when roberto was called away rosa lee continued walking alone .
when she came to the port side , she noticed a figure in the shadows .
at first she gave it no attention since there were always men around , and screamed when a cold , calloused hand pressed her down .
roberto , engrossed in his work , heard the scream .
every bone in his body came to life .
immediately he rushed up to the upper deck .
when his eyes were used to the darkness around him , he saw two figures struggling on the port side .
he could make out that the one had to be rosa lee because of her dress .
he rushed over , hearing a blunt voice speaking to her in a frightful manner .
anger filled roberto when he realized what was going on .
the man held her down tight against the railing .
come on , seorita , one kiss , he hissed with a lustful tone .
no !
leave me alone !
she screamed , struggling in his hold .
he smirked again .
she tried to get away , pushing and slapping him with one hand she had managed to free but he was too strong for her .
stop !
roberto shouted out .
who is there ?
startled , the dark figure looked at him , pushed her hard against the railing and ran away .
it looked like the new sailor the one man that he did not trust on his ship .
roberto followed him as he ran down the steps to the lower deck right into the arms of the doctor who was on his way up .
the doctor seized him .
when roberto caught up with him he was seething .
he did not take too kindly to men that forced themselves on ladies , especially his lady .
you were out of line , sailor .
his voice was stern and cold .
yeah , but she is worth it .
i want to have a taste of that lady as much as you do .
he was arrogant and defiant .
with one difference .
the lady is not interested in you , you rat !
her scream made her intentions well known .
roberto clipped out .
pierre just heard the commotion and also came out of his cabin , hearing the last words of the defiant rat .
they all like to scream until you kiss them and then they become like putty in your hands , the sailor bragged .
you reckon ?
pierre , take him away .
we will deal with him in the morning .
roberto said in a low , cold tone .
when he stalked out , the arrogant bastard called out behind him , i will have my turn .
roberto turned around .
with lightning speed and with one blow to the jaw he sent him against pierre with a thud .
the sailor was silent as blood formed on his lip .
bastard , lock him up !
he seethed .
with one pull pierre led him away .
roberto ran upstairs as rosa lee came towards him , rubbing her arms , shaking from the sudden scare .
are you all right , my rosa ?
he asked the moment he saw her .
he opened his arms and she stepped in as he folded her into his chest .
it was the second time that she had heard the term of endearment and her heart sped up .
i am all right .
a little shaky .
she wrapped her arms around his neck without any hesitation and stood in his embrace , her head on his shoulder .
for a while , they stood there , the thumping of his heart in her ears .
it was a beautiful sound to her , a sound filled with love and hope .
he caressed her until he could feel that she relaxed against him and then let her go .
again , my hero , she said , smiling .
its becoming a trend now .
he smiled .
i will always protect you .
drawing her closer , he placed a kiss on her forehead .
when are you going to talk to me ?
she whispered in his coat and he pushed her slightly away , searching her eyes .
all he saw was trust , and could it be ?
love ?
he pressed her against him and said , follow me , and directed her down the stairs to his grand cabin .
once inside with the door closed he offered her wine , since she was still trembling , and sat next to her .
each took a few sips to calm them from the sudden rush .
he looked at her , making sure she was all right , and placed his glass on the desk .
rosa lee watched in awe as roberto knelt before her , removing the glass from her hand , and asked , how do you feel about me ?
his dark ochre eyes were wide and serious .
careful curiosity filled them as he watched her .
his face was still stern but a muscle rippled in his jaw .
he was nervous , she realized , and whatever he wanted to ask was causing this .
her answer was critical to him .
he held both her hands in a firm grip , his tension real .
for several days she had thought about her feelings and the things he invoked in her .
his presence was secure and strong .
he was not afraid of admitting how he felt .
she knew she cared for him , trusted him , but could it be love ?
last night as she had read her parents journals once again she realized the love she had seen and the emotions she felt for him were the same .
she could not deny it anymore .
i love you , roberto , she whispered , and light dawned in the ochre eyes so that they were more of a rich golden colour .
surprise and joy filled his face .
the scar she had come to love softened and creases formed over his cheeks .
really ?
yes , i am sure .
he lowered his head and brushed against her lips .
marry me .
she gasped with delight and shock .
her body trembled and she stared wide eyed up to him .
did she hear right ?
marriage .
did he just propose ?
marry me , my rosa , he repeated , this time louder .
she could not help but just stare as his lips touched her once again .
he was hesitant and soft at first before he took her mouth hungrily .
she leaned into him and returned the kiss .
she was warm and inviting and when he finally pulled back she smiled .
you know how to pursue a girl , and giggled .
does that means it is a yes ?
he asked with a smile breaking over his whole face .
she nodded .
yes .
rosa , my rosa .
and she vanished into his embrace as he devoured her lips once again .
it was a while before they broke apart and he sat down and held her hand , visibly trembling with excitement .
roberto could not believe that this brave and stunning woman had agreed to be his wife .
she was everything he wanted .
it was late when he returned her to her cabin , light headed with the love he felt for her .
when he entered his cabin pierre arrived and informed him the pirate who had attacked rosa lee was ranting in his cell and not happy at all .
roberto dismissed the subject and pierre looked at the captain in stunned disbelief .
he knew roberto was smitten with rosa lee but it was worse .
he never thought he would see the pirate fall for a woman like captain roberto did for rosa lee .
it pleased him greatly .
the next morning at six , the sailor was flogged .
when rosa lee heard the first lash , she hurried onto the upper deck , stepping closer till she was just behind roberto .
the crew were looking at their crewmate with disgust .
the news had spread amongst them .
the man received ten lashes and was untied .
when he fell on the deck , salt water was poured over him .
he flinched without making a sound .
when he spotted her behind roberto he smirked , his beady eyes sending a clear message .
i will be back .
she shivered .
take him below , pierre instructed with a stern voice .
roberto turned and saw her standing there .
he smiled , his love visible in the ochre depths of his eyes .
good morning mn petite , are you feeling better ?
yes , captain , thanks once again , she said respectfully , lifting her lips to receive a soft kiss .
lets go and eat .
i am starving .
she looped her arm into his with a smile playing over her face .
after breakfast he took her to his grand cabin and said , i want us to get married today .
she gasped .
she had hardly slept last night .
the pure thrill of being in his arms , of loving him was so new that it kept her up .
she looked at him in surprise and wonder , but why so quickly ?
why not ?
came the gruff reply .
i love you and dont want to wait .
last night just confirmed how vulnerable you are on this ship .
but you saved me .
there is no need to be in a hurry .
besides , i would love to have my parents present .
no , he said , unexpectedly loud .
no ?
no , rosa lee .
i asked you to trust me and this is the only way i know how to ensure your safety .
but roberto , i can defend myself , she insisted .
not against men like the falcon and that pirate last night .
you are too precious to me .
besides , and he wrapped her in his arms , i want to love you .
he kissed her breathless and she chuckled as she gave herself to him , her arms around his neck .
all shyness was gone as she gave herself over to the bliss he offered .
she understood what he meant .
she had never been with a man before and he did things to her that were unknown to her but yet exciting .
she had to admit she wanted more than just this .
but still , this was too soon .
and what would her parents say of this sudden marriage ?
her marriage to a pirate no less .
as much as she cared for him , would her love persuade her parents to allow this wedding to take place ?
her father was always clear in his feelings towards pirates and for her to bring him home would ensure heartache .
she did not want to be the one who caused them any more grief .
questions poured through her , bringing her back to reality .
her smile faltered briefly and she dropped her arms to her sides .
she tried to move away but he did not let her .
roberto saw the change , stopped her , and lifted her chin with a finger .
his eyes were wary as he looked upon her youthful face .
what is wrong , rosa ?
her eyes were wide with concern and hesitance .
roberto .
she did not want to let him know about her concerns and she pushed him away , her breath swallow as she tried to gather her wits .
but this was important to her .
i really want my parents to witness this occasion .
you know how i feel about them .
among others , she thought , not meeting his gaze .
but he was a very perceptive man and forced her back to him .
that is not your biggest concern though ?
she swallowed .
she could not lie to him or be dishonest .
rosa lee , look at me , he insisted .
it is because of what i am , isnt it ?
she looked at him in dismay .
roberto ...
but he put a finger on her lips , quieting her .
rosa , i know my occupation is not desirable for any woman , or her family , but if you trust me everything will work out at the end .
how , roberto ?
you will see , my love , he kissed her softly .
roberto , she whispered and clasped his arms .
he looked at her , his own thoughts buried deep in his mind where she would not be able to see .
for now he had to convince her that this marriage was important not only to him but to her safety .
i know , my love , but once i have returned you safely back to portugal , we can talk to your father and have the great occasion you want .
but for now , my men will be the only guests at our wedding .
his authoritative voice left no room for argument .
she looked at him with concern etched in her mind .
she knew her father would understand once he was past the initial shock , but still , it could put a damper on their happiness .
she really loved the man that stood in front of her .
her whole being cried out to be with him .
she touched his face once again .
worry and concern stood out in the lines of his mouth and eyes and she want to remove that .
she wanted to be part of him .
another question dawned on her and she started to chuckle , her eyes filled with merriment as she asked .
who would marry us ?
pierre is also a captain , he said as a smile softened his own features and he pulled her closer .
does this means yes ?
she smiled .
not to sound like a parrot but you do know how to change my mind .
he chuckled as his mouth once again captured her mouth .
minutes later he released her and said softly , you make me a happy man .
yes ?
yes .
and he kissed her .
let me go to pierre and tell him the wedding is on .
you already talked to him ?
yes .
you are conceited , mr pirate .
i can not help it , it is my nature , and you do this to me , my rosa .
she groaned when he kissed her again .
15 that afternoon , when the announcement came that they were getting married , roars of laughter and cheers of exuberance resonated all over the deck .
pierre did the honours and married them .
a feast was prepared under the blue heavens for all to enjoy .
the celebration continued for the rest of the day and night .
roberto was smiling non stop , holding her close to him , never once letting her go .
she wrapped around him like gift wrap .
she looked amazing in a white taffeta dress with silver threads embroidered on the bodice , enhancing every curve to robertos delight .
her hair waved behind her beneath a tiara he had given her that morning .
rubies in the form of a rose were imbedded in the tiara .
she looked ravishing as his gaze was on her , covering her with his love .
later in his cabin they melted together and she allowed him to love her as he promised .
all shyness disappeared as he explored every inch of her .
he took his time in teaching her about her own desires and what inflamed him the most .
they only came up for air to eat and bathe , then returned to explore once again the wonder of the new found love .
she realized that she had so much to learn about him but at that moment what they shared was more than enough .
ten days later another storm hit the contra o vento .
everyone scurried around to tie everything down to the ship .
the winds were strong and icy cold against their skins .
dark menacing clouds formed around them and waves came crushing down , leaving them all drenched .
rosa lee was helping when she felt strong arms grabbing her from behind .
a big hand covered her mouth .
kicking , she was picked up as if she was a feather and carried downstairs to her old cabin .
she kicked against the walls to stop him but he simply forced her legs under his arm .
she could not fight the strength of the hands holding her tightly .
her door was slammed open and she was unceremoniously thrown on her bed , drenched with the rain still pouring down outside .
when she finally could see who it was she looked into the rats small eyes , dripping wet with lust , fixed on her .
she scrambled away but he grabbed her leg , bringing her closer to the edge .
finally we are alone , seorita .
they are all so busy that they will not notice you are gone , and i am going to take my time with you , he snarled .
he grabbed the skirt and she could hear the material rip .
one shoe fell with a thud on the floor .
the other she had lost during the struggle .
your captain can not save you .
you are mine , he seethed .
did you really think that those lashes would stop me ?
i want you !
he pulled her closer , pressing his full weight on her as he spoke .
i promise i will have you .
he planted a wet kiss on her lips and she bit him .
he slapped her .
straightening himself , he tore at her clothing .
her bodice laces were hanging loose in front of her chest .
he lowered his head to her breast , closing hungry lips around her .
she pushed him away .
one side of her dress tore under his grip , revealing more skin , and he laughed , pinning her down with a leg as he shed his shirt , revealing a bulky , hairy chest .
she willed herself to be calm and to think .
screaming would not help .
they would not hear her through the wailing winds , the creaking ship and crushing waters .
she had to act to protect herself and with shaking fingers , she kicked and reached for the pillows in the moment he let go of her .
she knew her weapons were still there .
she had left them when they got married along with everything else .
robertos cabin was not bigger than hers and there would be no room for her things .
this was the first time she had been back in her old cabin .
to protect herself , rosa lee had placed a loaded pistol underneath her pillow after the last attack .
now she had to get to it , stretching her body as far as possible .
this could not happen to her , not after she experienced love and pleasure at the hand of her husband .
he grabbed her feet , forcing himself in between her legs with an ugly , lustful grin .
she kicked again to move herself up closer to the pillows .
she stretched again as he tore her petticoat , her legs exposed before him .
he released a guffaw that vibrated through her fear .
his rough hands stroking her thighs as he tore more fabric away .
with a final effort she reached the pistol , bringing it into her hand .
she looked at the man who was so engrossed with her , muttering incoherent words she did not understand , and lifted the barrel to his face .
he did not notice the pistol in her hand , his eyes fixed on her inner thighs , spreading her , and she pulled the trigger with a grunt .
an explosion rumbled loud above the winds and pierre , who was the closest to the stairs , heard it first .
he ran below to where he thought it came from , down the passageway , until he reached her room .
he froze at the picture in front of him , a smouldering pistol still in her hands , pointing at a man .
the sailors head was in between her legs .
gunpowder smoke floated in the cabin .
he reached for the pistol in quick strides , removing it from her shaking hands , and reached for the mans head , removing him .
the bullet was imbedded between the beady eyes .
he was dead before he knew it .
as she covered herself , roberto ran in , took in the immediate surroundings , and then reached for rosa lee , still on the bed , drenched in sweat and rain .
she lay there , shocked , staring at him and pierre , then said softly , it is the first time i killed a man , she whispered through clenched teeth .
tears started to run down her cheeks .
did he hurt you ?
a few scratches , but i am fine .
the doctor came in , confirming the death of the sailor , and then gave rosa lee something for the shock and pain .
bruises had formed from the manhandling .
she did not mention it to roberto though , the shock overwhelming her .
he just held her as she clung to him .
she could hear his heart racing , echoing her own .
the storm calmed down as mens feet stopped running above them .
roberto lifted her drenched body and walked with her to their cabin .
he sat down and placed her on his lap , covering her face with warm kisses .
before you sleep we must get you out of this wet clothing , my love .
she nodded softly , numbness in her limbs .
she was so cold that she shivered uncontrollably , all the past few weeks ordeals coming down in one swift move , the cold , the storms , the absence of her parents , the attack , and the death .
the tears were unstoppable .
roberto could only hold her next to his drenched body while he caressed her .
his heart throbbed for her .
he made her stand up , stripping the wet dress from her .
she stood there shivering while he rubbed her dry with a towel , drying her long hair where it fell over her breasts , concealing them from him .
finally he placed her underneath the covers .
eyes closed , she looked pale and tired as he watched her while stripping himself .
he lay down next to her , covering himself , nestling her closer to him .
they both fell asleep , once he was certain she was all right .
it was almost dusk when rosa lee stirred in his arms .
by now he was already awake , watching her sweet face next to him , propped up on one arm .
thinking of the naked body in his bed made his own to act in arousal , but that had to wait .
when she opened her eyes she looked bewildered .
the memories of the previous night came back in a flash .
for a moment she did not know where she was .
you are safe .
she pulled him closer , holding him tightly .
when he put his arms around her , the sheets moved down , revealing a soft shoulder and the slope of her breast .
he leaned down and removed her hair , the scar still visible , but he didnt mind kissing it softly .
he could feel her tremble under his touch , relaxing into him .
he moved her up toward him pressed against his hard chest .
he held on tightly and enjoyed her soft body against him , his hands brushing the soft skin .
seeing the place where the man left a bruise on her soft skin , he touched it .
rosa lee watched as he traced the long bruise over her nipple , raw emotions playing over his face echoing her own feelings .
his gentle touch was so different from the brute of last night and she moaned with delight .
i am so sorry for not being there , he finally said in a whisper .
just thinking of what could have happened replayed another time , a time he would much rather forget .
he had almost lost her like he had lost his sister , and tears rolled down his cheeks .
rosa lee felt the wetness on her skin and lifted his face .
this is not your fault my love .
i do not blame you .
i vowed to protect you , he said .
so far i am not doing a very fine job of it .
you are everything i want in a man .
please , love , dont punish yourself about this , she whispered and kissed him , wiping away the wetness .
i am here and safe .
that is all that matters if any harm should come to you i would never forgive myself , he said softly .
nothing can happen to me .
beside i am married to a mean pirate .
she smiled at him and he chuckled .
i do not feel like that right now .
what , my brave and fearless pirate is terrified ?
trying to make light of this rosa lee could see the effect of it on him .
nothing has changed , love .
you are still the only man for me .
i trust you .
he looked at her as if she was saying something profound .
really ?
yes , my love , really .
now go and get me some clothes .
yes , maam .
he kissed her before he jumped out of bed .
rosa lee fell back on the soft mattress where she still could feel his warmth .
taking deep breaths , she would not show him how much last night shook her .
it was over .
she was safe .
that was all that mattered .
i will get enrico to get you a dress .
she nodded as she watched him putting on his now familiar black breeches and white shirt followed by long black boots and black belt .
he pulled a cord and in a few seconds enrico was at the door .
enrico , please bring the seoritas night gown and then prepare some food for her .
yes , captain .
rosa lee protested .
i want a dress , roberto .
no you will stay in bed and that is an order , rosa lee .
his tone was stern and authoritative .
yes , captain .
she smiled .
it was no use to argue with him once he made up his mind .
enrico was back in minutes with her nightgown .
roberto helped her to dress and enrico asked .
should i bring your food here as well , captain ?
yes .
the moment enrico stepped out roberto placed a kiss on her cheek and she smiled .
with the brush she started to brush her hair , all tangled with sea salt .
let me .
he took the brush from her and continued .
at first , he had to remove many tangles but eventually her hair was straight and shining .
the simple act was reassuring as the silk fell through his fingers .
thanks , roberto , she whispered , feeling loved and cozy with the ample affection .
she never thought that a man could be so caring like this man .
since they got married he cared for her .
nothing was amiss and she felt truly loved and adored .
there were times that her thoughts wanted to overshadow the happiness but then she would push them away .
she made the choice to marry him and what she got was a loving and caring husband .
the mean man she met months ago was gone .
even his crew treated her with respect .
she looked around his now familiar cabin .
a mans holy place , her father had once said .
if you want to know the man you must look at his room that will tell you much about him .
his scent was all over the cabin , a distinct smell that mixed with sea , wind , cigars and earth .
not even her own fragrance could extinguish his smell .
and she loved it would not change it for anything .
books filled a bookshelf near the window and on an end table .
a book lay open next to an easy chair , worn out at the armrests .
that was his place of solitude .
many times he would sit there and pull her in his lap and they would listen to the crashing of the waves against the hull of the ship or the winds wailing when the sea was boisterous and playful .
those were the times she cherished the most because then he opened himself to her and she would learn more about the man .
the pirate was in the back , lingering .
dark colours covered the bed and windows .
in the one corner was a glass cabinet filled with weapons and swords .
the desk was well organized .
no papers lay around .
in fact , everything was organized neatly , and yet it had a sense of homeliness .
roberto watched her as she studied his cabin and then asked , do you like what you see ?
yes , it is you .
i dont want to change anything .
your love for books astounds me .
he chuckled .
why ?
do you think all pirates are ignorant ?
he asked as he walked toward her .
no .
she chuckled with a blush .
you are quite surprising for a pirate .
i am glad to have the ladys approval .
he kissed her soundly .
you are everything i want in a man , she added .
he chuckled .
i am glad to hear that .
he kissed her again and rose once again you can read some if you like .
i would like that , and closed her eyes for a second .
what happened to the man ?
she could not believe what she had done .
she tried to forget the events of the previous night but it came back and she had to know .
he met a watery grave .
ive caused a lot of problems for you ?
no , sooner or later he would have betrayed me , i never liked him .
you did me a favour .
he walked to his desk to collect some water for her .
i was so afraid .
i know , but you are safe now .
the rest of the crew adores you .
they were furious when they heard what the man tried to do .
if you had not killed him one of them would have .
he handed her the glass which she gratefully took , drinking the cool water with one gulp .
when she was done she gave it to him .
he returned to the table .
what happen to your sister ?
this was the one question she wanted to ask but avoided so far .
he stilled at the table and answered softly , she hung herself after the rape .
sorrow filled his face .
it was still hard after all these years .
softly she got to her feet and walked over to him standing near the window .
this time she comforted him , wrapping her arms around his waist .
how old was she ?
twenty one .
the stoic reply sent shivers up her spine .
she had just learned that she was pregnant with the mans baby , and then she hung herself .
i am so sorry for your loss .
its all right .
it was a very long time ago .
after a few minutes of silence , looking out into the bright sky , she said , looking at him , i am so confused about you .
it would be so easy to love you , but your lifestyle , your choices .
i do not understand .
you do not act like a pirate yet you are one .
my father always said we must never judge a book by its cover .
when i open yours it gives me joy , but it is difficult to look past the cover .
her eyes filled with sincere emotions of hope .
why did you choose this lifestyle ?
he could see genuineness in her posture when she asked the question .
she is trying very hard to make sense out of this .
he wrapped her in his arms , thankful for her understanding and acceptance .
it could not be easy .
he owed her some answers .
i did not choose it .
it chose me , he finally answered .
dont you want to tell me ?
enrico knocked and she quickly took the food from him .
she took it over to the chairs where they sat down .
she filled their plates with food .
please , roberto , tell me so that i can understand , she said again , encouraging him after handing him his plate .
i am a farmer by birth .
he smiled when he saw disbelief written on her face and continued .
my parents have a huge farm on the south coast of france .
we were happy in those days .
we loved one another and the joy of working in the fields made me content .
i loved the land , the smell of breaking ground , the whole process of planting and waiting , and then the harvest .
he smiled , his thoughts far away .
then , four years in a row we had very bad drought and no harvests .
my father fell into debt and finally it was time to pay up .
the lender who helped my father was the cousin of the falcon .
my sister and i were given as slaves to pay off the debt .
it was the hardest thing my parents had to do but we understood .
she gasped , placing a hand on his arm .
how old were you ?
the food was forgotten on their plates .
i was nineteen , my sister twenty one .
16 veronica was raped on the first night , while we were still on the ship taking us to the falcons lair .
two months later she became sick with morning sickness .
one slave girl said she was pregnant .
she hung herself .
everyone knew what had happened to her and everyone made the connection .
when i heard about it two days later , i was bitter and full of rage , seeking the man that had done this to her .
i killed him later .
hence the scar .
roberto smirked and rosa lee squeezed his arm .
the raw emotions played over his face as she watched roberto reliving those dreadful times .
how tragic to not only lose the home you knew for nineteen years but a beloved sister in such a barbaric way .
rosa lee reached out to him and grabbed his hand , holding him to her heart .
but she said no words as she listened to his life story .
the falcon was so impressed with me that he took me under his wing and taught me everything i know about sailing and piracy .
he is a very clever man and i learned a lot .
i was eager to learn everything , and at the age of twenty five he adopted me as his son .
he looked at her with pleading , hoping that she would still love him .
she laid a hand on his cheek , the action solemn and caring .
her eyes were set unwaveringly on him and he smiled as his face relaxed in the knowledge that she did not despise him .
he kissed her palm reverently .
she smiled and asked , how did you meet pedro ?
he was on your fathers ship when we captured it .
the cargo was of much importance to the falcon .
after a long battle and lives lost it was in our hands .
i first saw pedro as he killed two of our men , and when he was apprehended and falcon heard whose son he was , he was impressed .
your father is well known .
his bravery and leadership is respected by all on the seven seas , both sailors and pirates .
i have told you that the crew adores you because of the fact that you are his daughter .
they respected him although they never met him .
he smiled at her and she returned the smile .
at night pedro had to tell us about the adventures on the sea and in africa and he talked much about you .
i was intrigued with you and when the falcon came up with the plan to ask for a ransom , i volunteered .
your brothers stories didnt do you justice .
you are more impressive in real life .
silence fell between them as they locked gazes again , seeing each other , the hardship that had moulded them to become the people they were .
understanding dawned on rosa lees heart and she smiled , a smile which reached the dark brown eyes .
roberto pulled her closer and kissed her , demanding .
she came closer , opening herself to him .
i am sorry for the position you are in but not sorry that i have met you roberto said softly as he brushed her hair from her eyes and she kissed him on the cheek .
i know what you mean , she replied .
we would have never met if it was not for the ransom .
no , although i am sure i would have found another way .
you have captured my mind and my heart swiftly .
my body had no other choice but to follow .
she chuckled .
for a pirate you are very romantic .
their lips brushed .
please dont tell anyone , he murmured .
no .
it is my secret tucked in my heart .
i love you , roberto de ville .
i love you , rosa lee de ville .
he swept her from her feet and onto the bed in record time .
later they let go of each other and ate from the food on the table .
he stood up to light more lanterns and sat down again next to her .
you had an interesting life , roberto , and it is true what my father said , you can not judge a book by its cover .
her smile was shy but her eyes looked at him like he hoped she would .
the last few weeks had been filled with discovery for him .
his recklessness to expose his heart was a revelation .
usually he kept everything for himself but with her , he just blurted it out .
he wanted her to know him , to love him and was not ashamed to answer uncomfortable questions .
in the process she opened up as well .
he could still feel her soft skin under his hand , the soft roundness of her curves as she burned with passion .
his body was in permanent desire for her , to know her intimately .
she opened to him unabashedly , pliant under his coaching .
one day you must tell me about your parents and the farm .
i would love to hear more .
i will do so , but i think we need to go and sleep .
you are still very tired , roberto said , standing up .
let me put you in bed .
he held his arm out and she slipped her arm into his .
as they walked to bed they were both overcome with the emotions from the previous night , the new discoveries and melted into each other .
there was nothing that could compare to this bonding .
when he turned to her finally , out of breath , his eyes were again that dark ochre colour .
he wrapped her in his arms and whispered , i love you .
since the moment i saw you , my rosa , ive loved you .
i want you to know that and i will never get tired of saying it .
she placed a hand on his chest and kissed him on the lips .
he pulled her closer and demanded her to open her mouth once again , passion flowing as they kissed .
his mouth was pleading and demanding to let him in , to love her , his hands burning her skin , setting her heart racing , like butterflies fluttering and the momentum of their wings driving her closer to him .
it was as if they could not get enough .
all was forgotten except to just live for the moment .
she moved even closer to him , as desire coursed through her body , a serene feeling that made her breathless .
she could feel his body reacting to her .
i want you so much , the things that this man did to her were wonderful , intoxicating and she gave him his hearts desire .
my rosa .
his body was trembling with the need to have her , his lips craving her body , and she responded .
every day they passed each other on the deck .
the magnitude of their hearts , the passion of their bodies drew them closer .
at times when it became too unbearable he would open his arms and she would step in , seeking his closeness , listening to his steady heartbeat .
they would talk and he would open more to her the things that were important .
her resistance crumbled under the care and love she received .
pierre would tell of his bravery on many occasions .
the bond of friendship between the two men was tight , since they shared many journeys together .
on occasion pierre would meet up with her when roberto was engaged with work and although he was quieter they had a lot in common .
pierre would tell her about their journeys in great detail depicting roberto as a good leader although a pirate .
they were not ashamed of their vocation and sometimes she would tremble with fear and then laugh in joy .
she always felt safe though , with pierre and the rest of the crew .
on occasion when alone her mind would drift to her parents left behind in portugal .
what would be their reaction to her sudden marriage to the man that abducted her from her home ?
she thought about her brother manuel and the man he had become about pedro and the path he had chosen for himself .
and of course she thought about roberto , her husband , and what life held for them .
would they have a future ?
here on the open seas he was fairly safe but once on land he would have to stay hidden .
he would always be on the run from the authorities , living in the shadows , and where would that put her ?
how would she go on knowing that any day he could be arrested and hanged ?
because there would be no mercy once he was caught .
could she really live a life on the run , with uncertainty her only constant ?
what if children were born out of this union ?
where would it put them ?
she had so many questions always in the back of her mind and when she watched him she was terrified of the life she agreed to live with him .
he said she was brave but she was not .
the mere thought of him being killed left her shaken with fear .
roberto himself had problems of his own .
he would watch her as she strolled down the deck , deep in thought .
he knew that he had done the right thing to marry her .
she made him happy and he felt content with her being his wife .
but if everything worked out as he hoped could he continue being happy with her ?
would she not regret this marriage ?
it was so much for her to trust him without knowing the truth .
she trusted him .
fear gripped him many times and on occasions like that pierre would sweep in and change his thoughts .
he was the only one he could trust with his feelings and his future .
he was the only one that knew what this could cost him if he failed .
i can not fail .
i can not lose her .
never !
a month later , another storm hit them .
the day quickly turned into night as thunderous black clouds formed in the sky .
the swells of the seas grew bigger and higher with every passing minute .
it looked terrifying .
the waves stood ten feet high , towering over them before they crashed down on top of them .
one mast broke because of the weight , and the ship was tossed and rolled with every breaking wave .
high speed winds went through them , leaving them cold and helpless .
a few of the men were tossed overboard and roberto instructed rosa lee to stay down in the lower decks where she helped , carrying water and comforting the hurting men .
it went on for three days .
the ship creaked dangerously but kept together .
everyone tensed every time another deafening crack vibrated through the woodwork , holding their breaths until the ship rolled again .
exhausted , the men fell down and slept in shifts during this time .
the cook prepared a warm stew that the men gobbled up .
their arms felt heavy .
every muscle felt torn from the inside .
the doctor worked right through to aid the men in their discomfort , salving blisters and torn muscles , removing splinters , stitching up head wounds , bandaging broken bones .
they were in pitiful shape .
in all this time rosa lee hardly saw roberto , only hearing his barking voice as he gave orders , demanded action , motivated the men .
his voice was scarcely audible over the high wind and tossing waves .
he hardly took a break , irritated when she came close to offer him food or water , sending her right back below .
finally , when it became quieter , roberto stumbled into their cabin , soaked , exhausted .
when she looked for him later she found him sprawled on the bed , too tired to bother with the wet clothes .
he was snoring lightly , his head pushed in the pillows , his black hair plastered against his face .
softly she walked to him , just studying the broad back , ripped shirt , the narrow waist with the incredible long legs .
she knew she loved him .
as she watched him , she knew he was the one for her , the one she had waited for all her life .
she had no doubt in her mind any more .
his love warmed her up and she gave to him what he wanted , her love .
at first , she hesitated , but she knew she could not leave him in this state .
she wanted to take care of him as he had cared for her many times .
she wanted him to know that she cared more .
with trembling hands she started to push him to the side .
she had to get to the buttons to strip the wet clothes from his body .
the moment she touched him he was awake .
her small hands were trying to roll him , pressing against his body .
he rolled on his back and watched her out of hazy eyes , enjoying her touch on his skin .
he watched the emotions on her face , the tenderness as she looked at him , her hands brushing over the length of him .
a soft , womanly smile played over her lips , dimples appearing .
she was lovely .
she struggled to remove his wet boots .
they clung to his feet and it took her awhile to dispose of them .
he smiled at the determination with which she did the task .
when she started with his breeches , he had to will himself not to respond as she brushed against him , unaware of what she did to him as she stripped the wet clothes from him .
he closed his eyes and relaxed under her stare , allowing her to study him .
he could feel her eyes raking over him , sure that there must be a blush on her face .
hard and beautiful he lay in front of her , his muscles still tensed after the strenuous work .
a soft mat of black hair was on his chest trailing down to his manhood .
she allowed herself the freedom to let her eyes linger there and swallowed as her own body reacted , moisture pooling between her legs .
he was stunning .
she took in every muscle on the toned body until she ended at his face with the three day old stubble .
she reached for a towel , dried him , and then placed the covers over him .
when she started to leave , he spoke sleepily .
it startled her and she blushed , keeping her face down .
just the mere thought of him lying there buck naked under the covers , the fact that she had just seen him so , even though they were married , still caused the blood to sing through her veins .
please .
stay with me , he murmured , and then appeared to doze off .
she went back to his bed and the moment she sat next to him , he turned on his side and his arms encircled her , pulling her closer , and then he was gone into sleep .
she watched him sleeping and enjoyed the feel of his skin under her fingers , tracing the muscles on the broad shoulder , following the arm .
he rolled again , exposing his chest for her , her hand touching the dark nipples with curiosity as they hardened .
she suppressed a giggle .
he really was a handsome one .
when she had removed his shirt she saw a few scars on his back and on his stomach , evidence of the life he led .
she traced them , giving each one attention with her fingers , brushing against him .
he looked like the paintings they had on the walls in the study at home a portrait of masculinity and beauty .
it made her skin tingle with pleasure .
she could feel him move closer .
he turned once again , his head in her lap and his bare back exposed for her to touch .
she caressed him softly , tracing the shoulder blades with her hand , his skin soft but muscles hard , his breathing rhythmic against her .
she was also tired after the storm and somewhere during the night she dozed off , her head on her chest , her long hair touching his back .
she awoke when a hand cupped a breast and when she open her eyes , he was very close to her , his head lifted , lying on her bosom .
he tangled his hand into her hair , bringing her head down , and then kissed her with a burning passion .
he lifted himself more against her and her arms went around him , drawing him closer , opening her mouth .
the exploring of their tongues ignited fire in them both .
she could feel his hands busy with the lace of the bodice .
i need you , my rosa , he whispered against her lips .
yes .
me too .
it was too long .
she arched toward him , his hand rough but yet soft on her bare skin .
how much ... ?
he encouraged .
i love you !
she finally could say , out of breath .
tell me again , how much ?
his voice strained with bottled up emotions , his hands untying the laces of her skirt , pressing the material down .
with a thump they fell on the floor .
he removed her petticoat , pressing kisses on her flat stomach .
i love you , she managed to say again butterflies scattering around her stomach and throat .
with a groan he lifted himself , drawing her underneath him until they were back on the bed , pressing her into the softness , and he kissed her all over .
her skin electrified under his touch .
the sensations of desire flooded her very being and she was ready for him .
her body trembled under every touch as his fingers moved into the core of her excitement .
moans left her mouth that he smothered with his own as she gasped .
he took her to a high plain of heated desire .
she wrapped her legs around his hips , clamping him , and then with a thrust he was in her , taking her , claiming her as his own .
her brain exploded with him inside of her .
she felt dizzy and said , i love you , which brought him to a fruitful climax .
to experience the wonder of his love after the storm was too much and tears ran down her face .
her eyes shone with adoration as she brought him closer and kissed him .
roberto was in a blissful state of his own .
he had never had this kind of passion , never felt as intimate with a woman as with his rosa , kissing her with heated kisses , hungry for her touch .
he held her , imbedded in her .
she did not let go .
she whispered in his ear , more , my love , and he complied , whispering , i love you , my rosa .
he turned her around as she whimpered from the release .
he smiled , stroking her lower back to relax her , lifting her hips , exposing her .
he took her again .
she gasped for breath .
moans vibrated through her again as she reached for the wall to steady herself to receive him .
again , their rhythm synchronized as they came to an orgasmic scream , breathless with desire .
he held her tight laid his head on her back , running his hands over her , and let them rest on her with delight .
touching her , he could not remember the last time he had experienced multiple orgasms in one .
panting for breath , they dropped down on the mattress , he still holding her into his body , spooning into her as she lay on her side out of breath , her eyes closed .
feeling her own heartbeat racing , she felt satiated , her body trembling under his embrace .
the mattress shifted under his weight .
he came up onto his knees as he turned her over again , facing her , while he cuddled her in his strong arms .
my wife , my rosa , i love you .
i love you , my love , she whispered and they dozed off into a wonderful carefree sleep .
17 time moved on but yet stood still .
they continued with their discoveries .
the ship moved , bringing them ever closer to their destination , but for now they were blissfully unaware of this .
there nights were filled with exotic adventure .
rosa lee loved the flaming path his passion had traced all through her body and showed him exactly how much , giving in to everything he did , allowing him to take her to new heights .
his lips searched and kissed every part of her .
she found she had spots that responded more to him .
at those spots he would linger longer , taking his time , until she pleaded with him .
he did not disappoint , teaching her the things he loved to do to her .
in return , she could enjoy every part of him , lingering at the places she came to recognize as his most sensitive spots .
she chuckled when he too pleaded gruffly , her eyes shimmering .
it made her feel wanted and alive .
on these times he would whisper , i have created a monster , in her ear , and she chuckled with pleasure as he took her again .
he would whisper about his life and future with her , sharing his heart , and she would do the same .
there was no end and no beginning .
everything began and ended with each other .
out of breath , a sheen of perspiration covering both their bodies , he huskily said , you are extremely passionate , my rose .
do you enjoy it ?
she asked with desire in her voice .
yes i do .
i love you rosa lee de ville .
you have made me the happiest man .
i always had a longing to leave this pirates world behind but never had the reason , until i met you .
you are my reason to go back to being a farmer , if you will have it ?
he whispered during one of these nights .
he wanted to tell her so much but could not .
but he did want to assure her of a future with him .
yes , roberto , those are beautiful words .
but how , my love ?
she replied , out of breath and speechless .
she never expected it .
he , leaving this world behind .
her prayers were answered and she wrapped herself around him and kissed him with joy bubbling over .
he chuckled as kisses rained on him .
he knew that it fettered her mind continuously .
it is possible .
piracy was good to me , but the farm is waiting .
i want to farm and make it a success , for our children one day .
kissing her , his voice turned serious .
but , my rose , you will have to trust me from now on to get us both out of the piracy life .
you will have to be strong , stronger than before .
our safety can only be guaranteed with you trusting me .
she lifted herself up , seeing the gravity of his words and said , there are still things that i dont understand but i will trust you unconditionally .
you are my husband .
your word means everything to me .
where did i get you ?
he sighed in contentment and he pulled her closer .
you kidnapped me out of my parents house , remember , mr pirate man ?
she chuckled .
he groaned and crushed her mouth with his again .
his rosa .
after weeks of marital bliss the crow master called out , land ahoy !
as they watched the land mass growing in front of them , roberto became tense , silent .
his voice sounded strange when he spoke .
it is the southern point of madagascar .
we still have three days left and then we will be at the isle of saint marie at the house of the falcon .
there are things that i still need to tell you , my rosa , he said , hesitance in his voice .
yes , my love ?
she lifted her trusting gaze to him .
he swallowed hard , touching her face things will be different there .
things will seem strange , and sometimes what seems true is not .
there are no laws and no morals .
the only law that counts is the falcons .
he is a hard and cruel man and does not take deception lightly .
the best course is always to be straightforward .
say only what is necessary .
he gulped , taking in deep breaths as if he braced himself against whatever lay out there .
i can not stress it enough .
you need to trust me and know that i love you , no matter what .
urgency filled his voice and he held her with a rigid firmness .
roberto , you frighten me when you talk like that !
but i also believe that you have your reasons , and because i love you , i trust you .
there is no doubt in my mind .
again , the familiar , confused thoughts from the beginning entered her mind .
what is he not telling me ?
she thought .
for weeks , she had seen a side of him that she adored and loved .
her feelings for him had grown .
she respected him not only as her husband but also as a man .
his character was not that of a pirate .
stories her father told her of them convinced her that he was not one .
she did not know what to expect once they were on land .
but he desperately wanted her to trust him , and that she was willing to do .
i will never hurt you intentionally , but you need to be brave , and rosa lee , he hesitated .
trust no one else .
yes roberto of course .
she hugged him , anxious because of his seriousness , and he drew her closer in his embrace .
roberto , what are you not telling me ?
she asked after a while , her heart beating loud in her chest .
panic filled her .
always remember that i love you .
all will be revealed at the end .
that is all i can say for now .
keep on trusting me , he said in a desperate plea , crushing her mouth with his .
he took her to their cabin where their bodies became one under their intense passion , his masterful touch causing her to blossom under him , taking him into her .
when he left he was sombre and just stood at the rail as he watched the land mass .
rosa lee would watch with distress , touching her belly reassuringly .
pierre had his hands full with both roberto and rosa lee .
but it was easier to speak to her than roberto .
he shut every one out .
pierre knew to just be there and make sure to cover his friends back once they set foot on the island .
for three days , they sailed around the south coast and up the east coast until they reached the isle of saint marie .
it was a beautiful island filled with lush , thick foliage , a mountain on the far horizon .
during these three days , their lovemaking was at times frightening rosa lee .
it felt as if he were branding her with every touch and every kiss .
there were times when he hurt her but she didnt say anything , her trust in him unmovable .
her body was adjusting and aroused under his raw desire .
the things he did with her astounded her but it brought them closer , leaving her breathless and numb in his arms .
when he finally stepped out of the cabin after the anchor was dropped , she saw the man she had met the first day of their journey , the menacing , stern pirate .
her roberto was deeply buried .
the longboat was set out on the water , waiting for him .
she had to wait on board for him .
when he kissed her , he said , it will be either pierre or i that will collect you .
be ready at any time .
yes , captain .
she looked at him and he smiled .
for a brief second the roberto that she loved was back as she touched his cheek .
he kissed her palm and then her lips in a final good bye .
when he went over the railing and down the jacobs ladder , captain roberto de ville was in full command of his surroundings , stern in posture , broad shoulders straight and expression fierce , the picture of a pirate .
pierre followed after he assured rosa lee once again that he would protect him and bring him back safe .
she squeezed his hand in a final good bye and watched as the love of her life moved over the water without looking back .
the ships doctor took her hand and motioned for her to go to her cabin .
he had watched her the last few days and knew she did not feel well .
now was a good time to determine what was wrong although he had his suspicions .
he smiled at the young woman , reassuring her that everything was all right , that roberto knew what he was doing and that she must trust him .
it was with great difficulty that he calmed her down once his suspicions were confirmed .
rosa lee cried and laughed the whole of the night , staying in their cabin with the wonder that was within her .
she could barely contain herself until waves of worry would capture her and create havoc in her mind .
roberto himself had great difficulty in leaving her behind .
but he had to determine if everything was still all right on the island .
a pirates life changed in minutes and he had been gone eight months .
the falcon was unpredictable on the best of days .
as they rowed to the shore he refused to look back knowing that rosa lee would watch for him .
but he could not afford to turn around .
he had to leave her behind and think clear headed for now .
that was the difference between survival and certain death .
at the shore he was met by several men some new ones and some familiar faces .
he was rushed to the falcons place immediately .
he hardly saw the dense bush as his eyes were fixed on the men with him , observing each one as they went deeper into the over grown bushes .
a path snaked through the trees and bushes , leaving the place dark at times .
everyone in the group was loyal to the falcon .
the few men he knew were not among this group .
they reached an opening where several huts stood close by with a larger one in the middle .
heat emanated from the blue sky with only a slight breeze that ruffled his hair and jacket .
perspiration covered his body but he did not notice it as he tightened his jaw .
screams echoed from the large hut and roberto could only guess what was going on .
he hardened his features as they walked into the larger hut , larger than most on the island .
the hut had once belonged to a chieftain on the island but falcon had killed the man and his wives and taken his children as slaves .
he was living in the place as a chief .
when they got inside the cool shadows of the large room they saw the falcon sitting in the middle of the room at a dining table .
a woman was over his knee and hit her without mercy .
several men stood around him as smacks on her bare bottom resounded through the silence .
he chuckled , a deep , rough noise that came from his throat , his beady eyes dark with cruelty .
roberto clenched his fists in anger but he could not show it .
when the falcon noticed roberto he stopped the smacks .
are my trusted son falcon greeted him jovially and stood .
the woman fell to the ground and he kicked her aside .
take her away , he barked to no one in particular .
two men stepped forward and reached for her unceremoniously .
she screamed .
one smacked her hard and she fell backward .
take her , dammit , the falcon cursed loudly .
what must we do with her ?
a bald headed man asked with a grin .
that was trevor , a rogue they had picked up on the streets of london .
a dangerous man .
roberto knew him well , and the mere thought that the woman was at his mercy was devastating .
roberto looked at pierre who stood there with clenched jaw .
both men knew they could not help her .
you can have her , falcon said ruefully and the mans face contorted in an ugly grin .
thank you !
it had to be one of the falcons favorites for him to even give her a second glance .
what she had done to displease him they could only guess .
no !
the woman screamed as he pulled her up by her hair , threw her over his shoulder , and walked out .
for a while they could hear her begging , crying and screaming , but without any help .
tomorrow she would most likely be dead as the other man followed trevor and the screaming woman .
roberto , i trust you are well ?
the falcon said as he stood before roberto with a grin , scratching his chin .
yes , falcon i am well , roberto replied , giving away nothing of his feelings to falcon .
pierre , falcon acknowledged him briefly .
falcon , pierre returned the greeting as roberto had .
and have you brought me the ransom ?
the falcons dark eyes glimmering with satisfaction .
yes , captain , roberto answered .
well let me hear all about it !
he wrapped an arm around robertos neck and walked with him to the table .
a pitcher with wine and glasses awaited them and a servant girl was already pouring it for them , hands shaking .
she received a slap from the falcon and the pitcher fell from her hand and broke on the floor .
wine sloshed against his boots .
now look what you have done , you idiot woman .
clean it up !
he screamed .
she was on her knees with a cloth in her hand that roberto assumed was her skirt and cleaned up the mess with the falcon still smacking her over the head .
roberto balled his fist and tried to stand up but pierre stopped him and shook his head .
roberto sat down and watched with growing hatred the abuse to the young woman .
she scampered away through the door .
pierre was right it was not time for any heroics .
not yet .
well , tell , man !
we are anxious to hear of your travels .
the falcons second , tiny forehand , came and sat next to him .
tiny was , as his name stated , tiny , but with a sure hand that could impale a fly with one quick throw with his daggers .
he kept them stashed behind his back .
he was ruthless in his endeavours and vicious to any captive .
if they needed information from an informant he knew how to get it out skilfully , meticulously and with bloody results .
as expected , cisco almaida was not very pleased with the ransom or the abduction , roberto began , but at the end he released the ransom as requested .
and the daughter ?
is she anything like pedro said ?
yes .
and more .
but that did he not disclose .
the falcons eyes peered in his for a long time and roberto kept his eyes unwavering on him .
the young woman was back with another pitcher .
before she could pour the contents roberto got up and took it from her .
you were always too soft , the falcon said as he watched the display .
the woman needs to be put in her place , but you always were the gentleman .
the group laughed gruffly .
roberto did not comment but poured all the glasses and sat back , taking a sip of his own .
so , she is in good health ?
yes .
you dont offer much , roberto .
are you hiding something ?
came the low , impatient reply .
no , falcon .
roberto met the falcons glare head on .
the falcons eyes swept between him and pierre but neither elaborated on anything .
how is pedro ?
roberto asked instead , and a smug grin appeared on the falcons face .
the little sneak got away .
how i still dont know , but i will get to the bottom of it soon .
pierre and roberto looked at each other briefly before they placed their attention back on him .
when did this happen ?
two days ago , and he snickered , but dont you worry , we will get him .
the patrols are canvassing the island as we speak .
he slapped tiny on his small shoulders .
and then it is playtime .
this caused tiny to smile widely so that you could see the empty gums , the beady eyes sparkling with glee .
but he said nothing , as always .
if you dont mind , i want to go to my hut make sure everything is acceptable so that i can join the search , roberto said as he drank the last of his wine yes , of course , but when will i meet the ransom ?
falcon asked , bringing them back to the subject at hand .
soon .
both he and pierre got up and left the hut .
nothing was said between them but each had a grin on their faces .
the plan was under way .
soon , falcon , both thought .
18 two days passed before rosa lee finally saw a longboat rowing towards the contra o vento .
in all this time , she had neither heard from nor seen roberto or pierre .
she paced their cabin nervously .
she was not sure what was going on , but she felt uneasy , and all the uncertainty and doubts settled in her mind .
she kept thinking of all the evidence against the man she now called husband .
her pirate .
she loved him .
that much she knew .
he was not acting like the pirates her father told her about .
the cruel ways of their existence was not a part of him , or of pierre , for that matter .
the two were best friends but they rarely spoke about themselves , never let her in on the bond they shared .
then there was that letter she had delivered to the captain of the d.e.i.c ship .
why would a pirate hand a d.e.i.c captain a letter ?
it did not add up .
his persistence in reminding her that she must trust him because everything was not as it seemed caused more questions .
he was a pirate , strict and fierce , although she had seen a side of him that she doubted other people were privy to .
he was an exceptional lover , tender at times , brutal at other times , but he always adored her .
she felt safe in his strong arms and she smiled , wrapping her arms around herself .
she missed him fiercely .
his love of good books was evident .
the rows of books on the shelves were worn at the corners from years of reading .
his knowledge of the world astounded her .
he had seen most of the known world , which she only heard from her father or had read about .
he had a love for both land and sea as he talked about the farm , the land , his country and his parents .
he loved them , missed them and still talked about his sister reverently .
he knew the seas , the currents , and every kind of cloud and what it meant .
he knew when to be fearful of the sky and prepared or just dismiss it and call its bluff or , as he called it , a pout of the heavens , nothing to be afraid of .
then there were those dreamy hands that made magic over her skin , the smile that lit up his face , causing the scar to disappear into the laugh lines , the glow of his passionate eyes when he made love with her , coaching her .
her tender loving pirate .
her heart ached because of her unexpected love for him .
it was the not knowing that drove her to pacing .
enrico kept her company the best he could , but she knew she did not make it easy for the chamber boy , hardly listening when he told of his past life before he joined robertos crew .
the pirate ships lying at anchor all around her unnerved her , menacing and dark , holding secrets she was sure she didnt wanted to know , the world of her husband .
sometimes he would tell her stories , but she was sure he toned it down , not to upset her , but she did have a healthy imagination and she could read between the lines .
after all , her father did tell them stories as well , stories that were fearful filled with terror and horror .
from her father they were stories that other people lived , yet now it was different .
roberto lived them , making it all real .
the scars proved that .
then there were the women .
her husband was virile , that she knew , and to imagine him in the arms of others made her blood boil in jealousy .
they had known him , enjoyed his lovemaking long before she was in the picture .
they had taught him the things he was teaching her now and it did not sit well with her .
she had not mentioned it to him and knew she had to work through it if she wanted to continue to trust him .
the men made sure that she stayed hidden in the cabin so as not to attract any unnecessary attention .
the crew was on alert all the time .
tension hung like a thick , unseen blanket in the air .
they were ready for anything , but it was not good for her nerves .
the not knowing , not being out there created more nerves .
her stomach clenched and when she woke the morning of the second day she had to run for the chamber pot .
sweat rolled down her trembling body and the moment enrico saw her he called for the doctor .
she was pale and worn out .
the doctor encouraged her to eat often if not for her , for the new life she carried .
as the long boat bumped against the hull rosa lee finally got herself under control and went to the upper deck .
pierre stepped on the upper deck with heavy boots and the men were glad to see him , meeting him with toothy grins .
he was also a good man and the crew respected him .
he had a self assurance about him that made him attractive .
rosa lee had also seen loneliness in him and often wondered about it , but over the past four months , he had never once spoken about himself .
the same vibe that she had from roberto she also had about him , he also did not match the description of a pirate , yet he was one .
he laughed easily and was pleasant to talk to .
are you ready , seorita ?
all familiarity was gone and they treated her like in the beginning .
she had also noticed that they did not call her seora .
there must be a reason for that .
she was sure it would become clear later .
yes , seor , i am , she replied , stroking the dress she had chosen with care , a pale blue taffeta which enhanced her creamy neck , shoulders and bosom .
the bodice was hand stitched with fine needlework .
it clung around her and she found it difficult to breathe but it gave her the necessary courage to do what was expected .
her waist was cinched small , according to the latest fashion .
she patted herself on her still flat tummy as if to remind herself what was at stake .
they helped her into the long boat .
the boats man , who was unknown to her , looked at her with a lustful grin .
his eyes roamed over her body and she felt shivers running down her spine .
she did not meet the arrogant stare .
with precision , they rowed to land .
rosa lee felt small as they passed the menacing ships .
men whistled and cheered them on as they passed , but she kept her head down , cringing under some of the vulgar comments .
pierre touched her on the back , unnoticed by the rest , reminding her that he was there and she knew she was safe with him around .
they landed and for the first time in four months , she was back on solid ground .
her legs felt unsteady and almost out of place but soon the feeling of stable firmness of the land returned and she walked steadily behind pierre .
her eyes were on his boots .
men watched her , following her with greedy , hungry eyes .
pierre had tied her hands together with a blank look , pulling her behind him she said nothing , looked nowhere in particular , and made no eye contact with anyone .
men tried to grope at her but enrico , who walked behind her the whole time , removed their hands with ease , protecting her .
unbearable smells welled up in her nose , and she had to fight very hard against the nausea that made her want to double over .
she had to swallow a few times to get it down but remained calm , willing herself to breathe controlled breaths .
after about fifteen minutes of walking through the throng , they came into a clearing .
men stood all around her , looking down at her with piercing , hungry eyes .
stifling smoke filled the air .
her eyes burned from it and pierre left her alone , but she could sense enrico behind her and was at ease .
she looked around , searching for the man she loved , and when she saw him between a few men , she wanted to call him .
roberto stood out tall and strong , far above them , looking at her with a blank stare as if he did not know her in this world .
she remembered his words and repeated to herself , he loves me .
i know this , trust him .
suddenly there was a light buzz in the air and in her vision another man stepped up , large and menacing .
fierce words assaulted her .
the falcon , she guessed .
the nose was a dead giveaway to the name .
he was huge , and she had to lift her head to look at him towering over her .
his teeth were yellow , signalling his unhealthy lifestyle and an ugly grin was on his face .
handsome was not a word used in the same sentence with this man .
he was extremely rough .
his face had a leather like look from years of exposure to the elements .
he looked at her the grin reached his eyes but made it more sinister .
ah the sister , finally .
ah , but you are pretty .
with rough hands he took her chin in his hand turning her head to both sides .
she could not help herself and shivered .
he did not let on that he noticed it and continued your brother did not lie .
you are pretty .
he roared with laughter and the men joined in , except roberto .
he stood there emotionless , looking straight at her , not missing anything .
disgust filled his eyes as the pirate touched her .
where is my brother , you bastard ?
she hissed , unwavering before the pirate .
an overwhelming , disgusting stench came to her when he breathed directly into her face .
your brother will come when i am good and ready .
first , i am going to play with you , he said , grabbing her breasts .
a handful !
he said , looking at his men .
it hurt and she flinched .
anger filled her and she stood up straight , looking him directly in the eye .
you would like to kill me , wouldnt you , sweetheart ?
he said with a smirk of defiance .
again , a roar broke loose , men slapping their knees as they laughed .
i am going to enjoy you .
let me have a look at you .
with one swift movement , he ripped her bodice from her , exposing her to all the hungry eyes .
lips smacked .
disgust coiled within her belly , threatening to spill over her lips but she swallowed , refusing to back down .
he brushed away her hair , cupping her breasts again .
roberto fumed , clenching his fists and stepping forward .
pierre held him back .
slow down , friend , your time will come , he spoke softly into his ear , holding him back at his shoulder .
the falcon came closer , looking at her with pale green eyes and investigating her skin as if she was under a searchlight .
she felt humiliated , exposed to every hungry glare .
the rough hands kneaded her and he leaned forward to suckle a breast , biting the nub so that it stretched .
she flinched in pain , sniffing .
he chuckled , the sound trembling through her and she clenched her fists as he continued .
suddenly he stopped and sniffed again , and then hollered i smell a man on her !
you bloody bitch , youve had sex !
enraged , he slapped her and she fell to the ground .
her cheek burned as she struggled up and stood in defiance , looking at the pirate .
he came closer again , looking at her abdomen , and again he raged , she is with child !
he slapped her again so that she fell on her backside .
i will take the bitch !
a pirate called out .
i dont mind .
the bitch will not live long enough to be a mummy , another chuckled out with mockery .
again , the air filled with laughter .
this time it mingled with lust as they looked at her , knowing one of them would have her .
roberto shook as he heard the news and for a split second a smile appeared before it was gone , keeping his face still as his rosa lay on the ground .
an instant later she stood up straight again .
her hair fell forward and covered one breast .
her chin lifted and his heart swelled with pride .
there are the thorns .
he had missed them .
her body was rigid as she stared the falcon down .
her arms and bound hands drew protectively over her abdomen , the place his child grew .
it will take more than that to break her , he thought .
take her away !
the falcon screamed , his eyes flashing .
out of the corner of her eye , she saw roberto moving toward them , saying , what do you want me to do with the bitch ?
you can have her !
the falcon screamed .
i wanted a virgin .
why is it so hard to find a virgin in the world , especially one that is supposed to be a lady ?
he screamed .
thank you , falcon , roberto replied , bowing respectfully , grabbing her arm .
she struggled against him and he slapped her , and her eyes spat fire as he held her .
he did not even look at her .
you pirate scum !
she hissed , but roberto did not flinch as pirates roared , calling her names .
quickly he made way with rosa lee behind him .
he moved her closer to him to cover her nakedness and walked out of the circle .
pierre and enrico were not very far behind , hands on their swords as they watched every move , every thick bush .
they followed a small path leading them up the hill and at a rocky dead end , turned right into a wooden structure .
the rough wood structure was built in a huge square , standing on a wooden deck mere inches from the ground .
five steps led up to the veranda without any railings around it .
the roof was shingled with dark wood .
two windows framed each side of the wooden door and on both sides , closing with shutters , no glass in the panes .
as they stepped onto the wooden deck , it creaked underneath their weight .
pierre and enrico stepped aside as he opened the door for her .
roberto was quiet all the way to his hut .
her imagined angry words resounding in his head after he had slapped her .
he had to do it .
it was expected of him as the son of the falcon , but he was furious with himself for what she had just been through .
how would he face her ?
when they were inside and the door closed , roberto stood with his back to her , closing his eyes .
he was afraid of what he could see in her eyes , the rejection of what just happened .
instead , he heard her softly speak .
we were about six months into our journey , walking through the thick dense jungle of africa , which was a struggle in the scorching humid heat .
my father had to cut a path through it , the only one with enough strength to do so .
he was also hungry and very tired .
he could barely hear her and imagined how she looked at him , but he could not turn , only listen .
my mothers feet were completely giving out , as skin fell from them , leaving them a raw , bloody mess .
she tried to hide it , never cried .
but when my father saw it , he was furious with her and could not believe the damage caused to them .
he bandaged them with strips of his shirt under much protest from her .
the sneering remarks some had made held them apart and she did not want him to be in more trouble .
father continued with the nursing of her feet and she was grateful in the end .
the captain was furious , cursing him , but he ministered to her wounds and carried us both without complaint .
he heard a smile in her voice and he blinked as moisture settled in his eyelids .
a savage tribe helped my father to get food .
we thought the chief was a good man .
but he indicated to my father that he wanted payment for the food and then looked at the women my mother , my half sister , and two slave women .
father removed all their clothing to show the chief that they were too skinny after the lack of food during that time .
father had to point out my mother and my half sisters bony shoulders and hips to the man , only covered with skin .
father compared them to the chiefs own wives , over weight and huge .
the chief did not like skinny women and dismissed them , to great relief of the remaining group , me included .
he wanted big , chubby women and showed off his own women standing behind him .
the two slave girls still had enough on their bones to win his approval and they agreed without any struggle to stay behind .
to them , it did not matter where they were .
as long as they had food , they were satisfied .
by then they were used to being abused and given away to whoever owned them .
the two women did not even put up a fight .
she was quiet for a few minutes , as tears ran down her face , her cheeks swollen and sensitive , but bravely she continued , and he swallowed at the tears that ran down his face .
first you married me and then you branded me so that he could smell you on me .
the past week making love to me , you branded me so hard that at times it hurt , but you saved me , didnt you ?
he turned around , tears rolling down his cheeks , and she walked into his open embrace , looking at him with trust and love .
he did not deserve her .
i said i would trust you , no matter what .
and she comforted him , his head on her shoulder .
i am so sorry that you had to go through that , but that was the only way that i could protect you .
you were so brave , my rosa .
his touch on her cheek stung after the slaps .
with both his hands , he cupped her face and kissed her , his breath warm against her skin .
then , jerking his head up , he asked curiously , are you with child ?
yes i am .
the doctor confirmed it two days ago , and i wanted to surprise you .
he lifted her in the air , twirling her around , laughter in his voice .
i am going to be a father !
yes you are , my love , she laughed , her cheeks still hurting .
he put her down and with a warm hand enclosed her stomach in wonderment , removing the restraints and the rest of her clothing , kneeling in front of her .
your mama is the most gorgeous and the bravest woman you will ever know , little one , he whispered into her tummy , his lips brushing against her skin as his hands held her hips .
she knelt down in front of him with love pure and unstrained , eyes dark with desire .
make love to me , she whispered .
how can i refuse that request ?
he brought her closer , their lips locked in tenderness .
i love you , my rosa .
he crushed her body against his , demanding her mouth .
with hunger he devoured her .
she removed his clothing , struggling to get to the bed .
when they finally did manage to get there , he became tender in his love .
whispering tender words in her ear , on her stomach , the vibrancy of every word causing her to arch into him .
she demanded his attention , but he continued with the slow torture until she pleaded for him to end the sweet torture .
he just ignored her and continued at his own pace , deliberate in every lingering touch .
19 it took him awhile to sleep again , with his pregnant wife in his arms , just holding her as if his life depended on it .
kissing her softly , he smiled when she sighed in his arms , deep in sleep , cuddling into him , her body draped over him .
the strength and bravery she showed the previous day then the understanding she showed for his actions , made him feel like a real man .
she trusted him .
his chest swelled under her head , her hair fanning over his body , covering them like a blanket .
he knew he could have a future with her and his child growing inside of her .
it was the greatest gift he had ever received , unconditional love for a rough pirate feared by many .
she was worth it .
to fight for their future was worth everything .
thinking of the story she had told , he had admit that he respected cisco almaida as a man and as a father .
clearly rosa lee had great admiration for him , as all her stories always involved him .
he would have to thank the man once he took her back , for he had prepared her for him without knowing him .
he smiled as she stretched her body against him .
her hand moved over him in a caress and his body reacted to the soft , gentle touch .
he rolled her on her back and made love to her in the sweetest way .
the soft womanly smile he received let him grin with pleasure , knowing that she enjoyed it as much as he enjoyed giving it .
during the night they both woke simultaneously .
moonlight streamed in through the shutter slats so that they could make out anything inside .
something had woken them and when roberto looked out , he could see a shadow passing under the door .
he pointed to the door and whispered in her ear to get up quickly and quietly .
they stood up and dressed .
again , she put on her brothers clothing and when roberto looked at her with dismay , she shrugged her shoulders without saying a word .
she figured this would be the best way to move on the island and the safest .
when she had packed a bag these were the only clothing she had taken , along with her knife and pistol .
she slipped them into the belt under the jacket and grabbed a sword to belt under the jacket .
the dress on the floor was torn the fabric stretched and damaged .
she had no need for that dress .
in the back corner of the wooden structure was a trap door that he lifted .
they went through it quickly and he closed the door behind him .
he motioned for her to go out and stay in the bushes close by .
he wanted to see what was going on at the front door .
after a few minutes , he returned , speaking into her ear .
there is no sign of pierre or enrico .
we will have to get away from here .
follow me .
he took her hand .
they ducked through dense bushes , past another few wooden structures until they reached a clearing , they could hear a soft sobbing sound .
rosa lee pointed it out to roberto who nodded his head .
she moved forward toward the sounds .
a young girl stood crying behind a tree .
shadows played over the face .
the moonlight was not bright enough through the canopy , but she could see that the young girl was in distress .
dont be afraid , rosa lee said softly .
we are here to help you .
the girl stopped crying , sniffing .
what is your name ?
rosa lee whispered in her ear , putting a hand on her arm .
nora .
why are you here ?
i was captured from the coast of mozambique .
they brought me on a ship this afternoon .
the moment i got a chance , i slipped away from the pirate who kept me in his hut .
rosa lee looked at roberto .
we can not leave her here .
she has to come with us .
as long as she does not hold us up , he whispered .
i will not .
please , take me with you , came the desperate plea .
they heard movement behind them , as people came closer .
quickly , they introduced themselves to the young girl .
nora , i am rosa lee and this is roberto .
follow us .
she took the girls hand in her own , clutching it tightly .
they continued until they reached the shoreline , close to a longboat lying on the beach .
get in , said roberto and started to push .
nora was already at the edge when they were stopped .
not so fast , roberto , a stern voice said from behind them .
they turned around and behind them stood the falcon , rigid and fierce and three of his men equally menacing , a torch in each ones hand lit the beach around them .
rosa lee and roberto drew their swords , ready .
the falcon walked closer , straight to rosa lee , looked at her , and said , who have we here ?
reaching toward her , he lifted the torch to her face and smirked .
ah , seorita , lovelier than ever , i almost did not recognize you in mens clothing .
he cupped her cheeks again .
her heart was racing as she slapped his hand away , lifting her sword .
leave her alone !
roberto said sternly .
you really care about this bitch , son .
you deceived me .
it took me awhile to see through your plan but now i am back to claim her .
she will be mine .
no !
screamed rosa lee and launched forward .
the point of the sword tore a hole in the falcons black shirt .
ouch !
you bitch , you scratched me , he said in surprise .
roberto moved forward , in between them , his sword drawn , anger in his voice and eyes .
you will not touch her again , falcon .
i will kill you .
the falcon laughed , drawing out his sword .
lets see if you can .
both men knew each others strength .
both knew they had the same cunning and skill to win .
both had a roguish grin on their faces .
they circled each other .
rosa lee moved the young girl behind her , her eyes on the other three standing close by , swords drawn , menacing faces snarling at them .
soon you could hear the clash of steel upon steel resounding at a high pitch through the night .
swiftly both the men moved on the ground , feet trained and steady on the loose sand , cutting into the air , stabbing towards each other with short body blows .
roberto cut the falcons shoulder and then his abdomen with one sweep , hardly wounded , a defiant smirk on his face .
you son of a bitch , the falcon screamed , throwing himself at roberto .
roberto stepped gracefully to the side and landed another blow to falcons face .
blood streamed from the falcons wounds , down his leg , into the sand .
the younger man clearly had the upper hand .
then one of the other men stepped closer , launching at roberto with an angry growl , roberto reacted and diverted the blow , cutting into the mans arm .
his sword sank deep into the flesh .
the man cried out , grabbing his arm in disbelief , storming with fury towards roberto .
roberto sidestepped again , punching the man in the face .
he fell to the ground as the falcon moved forward again .
cutting into the air , weariness on his face , he launched forward onto robertos sword .
grabbing the sword , his face was stunned .
you wounded me , you son of a bitch !
he fell down on his knees .
another man screamed , running into roberto .
the last one made a lunge at rosa lee , but she cut him , blood dripping from the sword point .
she waited for him as he moved forward again .
she protected her face with her sword , pushing him away from her with both hands , and then she attacked without uttering a word .
her sword disappeared into the mans chest .
nora screamed and covered her mouth with a hand , trembling in fear .
glassy eyes looked at rosa lee as the man fell backward on the sand .
waves covered him , pulling him farther out to sea .
however , rosa lee did not notice and turned back to the fighting behind her .
roberto fought against the two men and he fell as a blow struck his head .
a stream of blood ran down his face and the falcon came for him .
roberto managed to strike the sword away from him .
he was on his feet again and again steel clanked against steel .
rosa lee stepped forward , covering his back with hers , and with fierce blows to both the pirates , they struck them , falling on their knees from the impact .
more men rushed forward and the falcon yelled , get them !
one man grabbed nora , holding his sword under her chin .
fear filled her eyes but no sound came out .
rosa lee and roberto stopped in mid lunge as the sound of a catching breath resonated in the air .
looking at nora , they lowered their swords .
seize them !
the falcon yelled again .
take them to the tavern .
their swords were taken and the falcon came closer , punching roberto on the cheek .
his ring cut through the skin and a trickle of blood dripped from his face .
your bitch has killed one of my men !
looking at rosa lee with a hateful glare he vowed , she will pay he was one of my best !
clearly not , rosa lee said with a menacing smile .
he walked over to her and slapped her so hard that her head bounced back , slamming into the man who held her .
when her gaze returned to the falcon she said in a very cold voice , i will kill you .
she pronounced each word in clipped tones , her promise unmistakable .
he grabbed her shirt and pulled her up to face him directly .
the other man let go his hold and he tied her hands in front of her .
his eyes spat angry blue flames , shoving her toward the lights in the distance .
she remained on her feet and the group walked away , nora still in the clutches of the other man .
when they reached the tavern , they were tied up together .
a huge crowd formed around them .
soft sobs came from nora .
rosa lee could see her for the first time .
she was small and blond , not as young as she thought , but with beautiful blue eyes .
weariness and the days hardships were visible on her .
her dress was torn and filthy .
it looked like she had been dragged at one point .
she was full of scratch marks on her lower arms .
her feet were bare and bloody .
roberto , my son , the falcon said with a snarl in his voice , mocking him with the endearing word .
did you really think that you would get rid of me this easily ?
i have watched you for a while now .
you were up to something .
i could see that .
you took the woman that was meant for me and made her your wife , planting your seed in her to make you a daddy .
how touching .
you thought i would not know ?
he slapped him hard .
robertos head snapped back , his ears ringing .
he returned his gaze , hate smouldering in the depths .
a pirate with a wife , what a laugh !
roars of boisterous laughter filled the place and goblets slammed together .
mocking could be heard all over , the men parroting their leader .
playing daddy !
they doubled over .
and then you steal another slave from one of my men .
are you going to marry her too ?
again a roar of laughter .
you are the one that made sure that pedro escaped .
i dont know when or how , but you will pay for that as well .
the falcon stood before roberto looking him directly in the eye , spit hanging from his beard .
you have cost me a lot and i will collect from you and this bitch .
he turned to rosa lee .
my men saw your brother at santa apollonia .
i am waiting for their return as we speak .
then both brother and sister will squeal like pigs after we had our way with them .
both are so pretty , dont you think ?
what are you waiting for , falcon , here i am !
pedros strong young voice reached their ears and rosa lees face broke out in shocked surprise and grinned .
to see her younger brother was truly a big relief .
he stood there , equally rigid , his young body straight , his face stern and determined .
at that moment she knew how her father looked at that age .
pride filled her heart .
the falcon whirled around in surprise and the snarl disappeared from his menacing face , before it returned in mocking confidence .
her heart beat increased , trying to make sense of the new development .
with pedro was a big , dark man who matched pedro in size and height , but looked older .
pedro !
rosa lee screamed out when she saw him and laughed .
shut up !
the falcon slapped her again and she fell down under the onslaught .
you better stop that , she seethed , struggling to reach for him .
i am tired of you slapping me .
unfasten me and fight me , you coward !
so infuriated was she with the man in front of her , she did not notice the buzz and then the silence .
rosa lee , calm down and look , roberto said to her softly .
men in uniform filled the tavern as the big man walked closer , his eyes fixed on the falcon .
i am captain le roux and i am here to arrest you , falcon , you and your men .
he tossed a rolled paper to him .
consider yourself served , you and your brood of vipers , as you deserve , by hanging .
his voice echoed in the silence .
there was no room for argument and for a brief second , a pin could be heard before a huge fight broke loose between the uniforms and the pirates .
roberto managed to free his hands and when he looked up , pierre was standing close to him , in battle with two men .
he untied rosa lee and nora , who sank to the ground in exhaustion .
he did not notice the pure hatred in rosa lees eyes as they set on the falcon , the man who had caused all of this .
the moment roberto released her she sprang into action .
rosa lee grabbed a dagger from the ground and launched at the falcon , who grinned at her .
with one fierce blow to his heart , she killed him .
it was so swift that it did not even register with him as he fell to the ground , the same grin on his face .
before roberto could react , she had sprung away from him , and an instant later stood over the lifeless body of the falcon , staring at the pirates lifeless eyes .
he stepped closer to her and spoke , not to alarm her .
my rosa it is over , give me the dagger , he said into her ear , stroking her arm to calm her .
for the first time since the ordeal began she turned , pressed herself into him , and cried .
her body shook with sobs and he stroked her back , whispering soft words in her ear while the fighting continued around them .
pedro came over to them , climbing over the lifeless body , and reached for his sister .
rosa lee , my sister , he said in a thick , raspy voice .
the emotions were too much for brother and sister .
she left robertos arms and threw herself into his .
with a satisfied grin , roberto left them to be reunited once again .
her brother was safe and she kissed him all over the face as renewed tears rolled from her eyes .
she clutched his shoulders .
you are safe , pedro !
yes sister .
i love you .
i love you too .
he hugged her , pulled her away and smiled .
i can not believe you are here .
just look at you !
she smiled , wiping tears from her face .
you dont look so bad yourself , she said .
and they both laughed , releasing all the pent up emotions from the last few months .
after a while , roberto returned to her side and she stepped into his waiting arms , holding her again after he helped pierre , killing the one man with his sword .
all the pirates were finally apprehended and tied up .
pedro , i want you to meet my husband , roberto de ville , she announced with pride .
pedro looked at her then at roberto .
he clapped his new brother in law on the shoulder .
well done , sir .
rosa lee looked at him , then at roberto .
sir ?
pedro grinned .
you , my sister , are looking at the brave roberto de ville , captain in the dutch east india company .
roberto ?
she gasped .
he grinned .
you are not a pirate ?
she asked , bewildered .
no my rosa .
i am an honest member of the working society .
she wrapped her arms around him with a soft scream of delight and kissed him fiercely to the delight of all present .
pedro chuckled and left them .
he liked the man .
he would be a good husband to her .
pierre was tying up the men he had bested and saw the small body with her head bowed .
long blond tresses covered the face and he wondered who it was .
handing the men over to an officer , he walked over to the young blond girl unmoving on the floor , too drained to be interested in the activities around her .
he touched her lightly on the shoulder .
she looked up .
two pairs of bright blue eyes met , the one very shy and scared , the other full of interest .
holding out a hand , he helped her to her feet gallantly .
he could see that she was distressed , tears running down her face .
he gave her his handkerchief , which she took with a small , delicate hand , whispering a thank you .
not sure what to expect , she dropped her eyes , still scared with everything that had happened .
she shivered from cold and weariness and he gathered her closer , supplying her with much needed warmth , feeling the fear and tension leaving her body .
she was so small that he had to bend over to hold her , but for some reason it felt good .
she fitted right into him .
are you all right , seorita ?
he asked with concern .
she nodded .
yes , seor .
i just do not understand what is going on .
does this mean that i am free ?
again the blue eyes met his with hope and trust in their depths and his heart skipped a beat .
yes , seorita , it means you are free .
the d.e.i.c came to our rescue .
who are you , seor ?
my name is pierre du val , captain in the dutch east india company .
he bowed before her with a gorgeous smile .
and who am i addressing ?
she blushed .
nora denhaag , she replied and curtseyed , lifting the hem of her skirt .
the sight of her bloody foot dismayed pierre greatly .
he crouched down and examined one foot and then the other .
it is not that bad , seor , just some scratches .
are you sure , seorita ?
yes i am .
he tried to determine whether she spoke the truth and she smiled shyly , dropping her skirt over her feet .
would you like to sit down ?
he rose to his full height , towering over her .
no , thanks , i think if i sit down i will fall asleep .
i am tired .
pierre looked around , not sure what to do with her , but he wanted to spend more time with her .
everyone was still busy with the pirates and a thought occurred to him .
he pondered for a few seconds .
would you like to stroll down the beach with me , seorita nora ?
he held out an arm and she looped her arm through his , smiling up to him .
dimples appeared on each cheek and pierre was mesmerized , lost .
yes , kind seor , she chuckled .
i would love that .
20 out of breath , rosa lee pushed roberto away , her eyes full of questions , surprised , confused .
roberto smiled at the mixed emotions on her face , still holding onto his brave wife .
what would you like to know ?
there are a million questions racing through my mind .
i dont know where to begin , she replied .
i am so surprised .
how ?
when ?
where ?
i do not know .
start at the beginning , i guess .
rosa lee asked , stammering , not sure what to say .
would you like to sit down ?
it could take a while ?
yes , and i need water .
i am terribly thirsty .
i will get you some .
he left her arms to draw a pitcher closer with some wine in it .
sniffing at the contents , he found it drinkable and handed it to her .
all around them lay broken pitchers .
it was a wonder this one was still intact .
she raised it to her mouth and took small sips .
sitting next to her , with her hand in his , roberto began at the beginning .
i already told you my sister and i were sold to pay off the debt for my father , and how i became the falcons son .
she nodded .
i was captured by the d.e.i.c about a year after my adoption for minor crimes .
i made a deal with them that i would hand them falcon on a platter if they would give me a break .
after much negotiation , they gladly accepted the offer .
they made me first a lieutenant and then later a captain , because i handed them another well known pirate .
he smiled at her and her eyes were fixed on him .
the falcon was a bastard by anyones standards and was slipping through their fingers each time , creating havoc wherever he went .
the idea of kidnapping you was born the moment i met pedro , when we captured the merchant ship for loot .
pedro was impressive , to say the least .
the falcon was also impressed with him .
when he learned whose ship we had looted , he immediately started to talk to him , having admired your father all his life .
i send a letter to the hq informing them of the new development , and they gave me permission to recruit pedro .
together we devised the plan , giving it as a suggestion to the falcon to get more money in the coffers .
of course , it had to be subtle so that he would think he came up with the plan , and when he finally gave the order , we were ready .
we made sure alfonso was out of harms reach before i left to get you .
but how did pedro escape ?
when we arrived back on the island , pedro was already gone .
i searched for him all over the island .
that is why i left you on the ship so long , for your protection .
i was not sure what was going on .
i missed you , she pouted .
i missed you , too .
he smiled as he kissed her pouty lips .
captain le roux came to the couple with questioning brows .
rosa lee looked at him and then at roberto , expecting that he would be arrested , the truth still new to her , but instead , the big man smiled at roberto and said , my friend , finally i see you again after all these months .
i received your letter from captain peek du toit .
my friend , roberto said and then turned to rosa lee .
let me introduce you to my wife , rosa lee de ville .
seora , what an honour .
captain du toit was very impressed with you .
we thank you for the letter and your bravery .
you do your father proud .
with her heart soaring , she smiled at the man she called husband , safely wrapped in his arms .
all this time , he had asked her to trust him , telling her that all was not as it seemed , and with a foolish heart she did , scolding herself .
but now all was clear and she sighed in contentment , dropping her head on his shoulder , just drinking him in .
i am so glad that captain de ville has found happiness with you , my dear .
it does us all good .
but how ?
she asked , remembering something .
he was really adopted by the falcon ?
yes it is true .
i recruited him ten years ago as an agent after he came to us with information .
your brother is also working for us .
this was all a plan to capture the falcon for his misdeeds throughout the years .
roberto stayed and gathered all the evidence for the falcons day in court , but it took a lady to bring him down .
captain le roux laughed at her disbelief , looking at the lifeless body of the falcon .
did roberto not tell you ?
she could only shake her head and then looked at her husband with brand new eyes , love visible in the hazel depths .
roberto placed a kiss on her nose with a conceited smile .
he was proud of this woman .
she had married him for the man he was and not the title he wore .
the title of pirate , placed fear in most , but not her .
he hugged her .
rosa lee turned to her brother , who had returned to her not as a child , but as a young man .
proudly , he stood there smiling at her .
hi , sister , pedro said sheepishly .
papa will be so proud , she whispered and he grinned with delight .
i recruited him when i met him ten months ago , roberto said with pride in his voice .
he reminds me a lot of you , the same courage and persistence .
but you definitely are more beautiful .
she blushed , the look on her husbands face telling her what he really wanted to do .
roberto , why didnt you tell me ?
your secret would have been safe with me .
it was better this way , he replied , smiling , removing a wisp of hair from her forehead .
that is why you wanted me to trust you so much , and now i am glad i did .
you are a wonderful man , and i love you very much .
she pulled him closer , kissing him in front of everyone .
the arousal she sensed in him made her forget everyone else .
pierre and nora strolled away down to the beach .
everywhere pirates were either running or fighting the d.e.i.c soldiers , but each one was successfully captured by them and tied up .
men cursed as they were led away , giving no second glance to the young couple .
but are you not a pirate ?
she asked , seeing the commotion around her .
pierre had managed to get her a pair of shoes to protect her feet but she was flopping in them .
they were three sizes too big for the delicate feet scuffing next to him , breaking the silence with every step , causing a few giggles and chuckles from them both .
i only pretended to be one .
roberto and i were both undercover .
she looked at him puzzled , and he explained .
the man who helped you with rosa lee .
she giggled again .
everything had happened so fast that her head was still spinning , but pierre took his time .
we worked undercover for the last eight years on various lootings .
i saved his life and offered my services on the same day .
that is how we met .
since then , we have become good friends .
you are very brave , captain .
pierre grinned .
and you , seorita , are very beautiful .
a blush appeared on noras face .
as they stopped on the white sands , the midday sun warmed their bodies .
he stepped closer , brushing the long blond tresses with his fingers .
soft , silky strands flowed through them and he watched as they fell down on her shoulder , her dishevelled look still appealing to his eyes .
pierre had waited a long time to find a woman he was interested in .
since he laid his eyes on the little blond , he was exceptionally interested .
she turned his insides into crashing waves and he wanted to know if the feeling was mutual .
very beautiful .
he swallowed .
may i kiss you , seorita ?
he whispered , just above the crashing of the waves .
she leaned in and offered her lips without saying a word .
he brushed against her plum lips , sighing in contentment .
i am going to make an effort to court her .
it is a long way back .
lots of time to know nora denhaag .
his mouth tasted her sweetness , as she pressed against him , soft and fitting into his frame .
perfect .
what is next for you ?
captain le roux asked the next morning , after the hanging of the remaining pirates just after dawn .
i am officially giving my resignation .
i am going to be a farmer from now on .
i am finished with this life .
it was too long , roberto said , looking at rosa lee and then at the captain , his voice filled with seriousness , leaving no room for any doubt .
there is something you need to know roberto , about your parents , captain le roux said .
yes ?
your father passed away six months ago , and your mother four months ago .
they both came down with the fever .
i only received the news three months ago .
i am sorry , roberto .
there is a neighbour looking after the place , awaiting your return .
a silence fell among them and rosa lee reached for her husband .
she knew how much he had wanted to see his parents again , and now they were both gone .
it was devastating news for him .
he blinked his eyes as moistness formed and bowed his head for a second .
i have found the will that your father left .
you receive everything , of course , and with it there is a letter from him to you .
the captain handed two letters over to him .
he had to walk away as he read the letter from his father .
standing at the corner of the tavern , he inhaled deeply at the gravity of not being able to see them again .
it was a short letter .
his father was not one to mince words .
it told him how much they had missed him .
the handwriting was shaky with some words blurred but he managed to read it with a sober expression .
how he had missed these two people over the years .
he now knew he would never see them again .
he would miss their wisdom , their love for the land that he had shared .
he would never share with them his return , his newfound love , being a father .
a tear ran down his face , which he wiped away , reliving the good times in his mind .
when he turned back , his emotions were under control and he spoke .
thank you , captain , for everything you did for them .
he shook captain le rouxs hand firmly .
your farm is waiting for you for you and your wife .
go and claim it !
he slapped roberto on the shoulder .
you have our blessing .
you have done a lot for us over the years .
there will be , of course , a bonus included in your pay .
everything else you can keep , he said smiling at him .
thanks , captain .
he wrapped his wife in his arms .
this was his life and his family .
he kissed her solemnly .
21 pierre was made the new captain of the contra o vento .
it seemed that cisco had been informed of the new arrangements by letter and , according to the captain , was pleased that his ship would be used in future endeavours , still under the cover of a protector of his merchant ship .
pierre and nora were smitten with each other , walking along the beach just talking about everything , holding hands .
nora was happy about his new assignment and told him as much , enjoying the young captains closeness and tenderness since they met .
the moment they kissed the first time , she knew this was the man for her and she was not shy in her affections for him .
pierre knew this was the woman for him , even if she was very young .
he spent as much time with her as propriety dictated , not that there was any one that would scold him , but his mother raised him to treat a lady right and it came naturally with her .
nevertheless , the biggest thing on his mind was that he had to be convinced when he proposed to her that she would be content with him being on the sea , away from her for long months .
she would stay on the farm with his mother and sister during the long months he would be away .
he told her all about the land near lyon and the life they led there .
the life of a sea captain was hard and lonely for any man , but when a loving wife waits , it makes it all worthwhile .
it took her two days to think about it , talking to rosa lee and roberto , seeking advice from them .
rosa lee asked her one question what does your heart tell you ?
then and there and she knew , returning with a positive answer .
pierre was ecstatic about her answer , twirling her around in the air to the delight of everyone .
that night they celebrated under the bright moon and starry sky , people laughing and eating .
when he returned her to her hut , he had a difficult time leaving her but he wanted to do right by her .
they stayed on the island for a week to recover and restock food and water .
in that time roberto showed rosa lee around the island .
she saw all his favorite spots overlooking the sea from different angles , and found the natives interesting .
their nights were filled with bliss and he took her in his arms and loved her without any pressure or lingering uncertainty .
pierre returned nora to mozambique where she had been abducted .
nora was the daughter of a dutch landowner , and they went to ask for permission for their marriage before they would set sail to france .
they arrived one night during a festival her father celebrated for her mother .
roberto and rosa lee accompanied them on the journey , getting to know the new country and buying beautiful pieces of furniture for their home .
they spent a week with noras family , who were relieved and glad that she was alive and well .
her mother , truida , had been in such a state of distress through all the time her daughter was missing and her father had a hard time consoling his wife .
her father , geert , and pierre had long talks about his life on the open sea .
he had to convince her father that he was the right man for her .
though he would be gone on long voyages , pierre assured him that nora would be in safe hands .
his mother and sister would look after her .
the marriage ceremony was performed at the parents estate , to the great delight of her mother , who went all out , creating the perfect wedding within a week , a record for any mother .
that night he made love to her for the first time , banishing from her memory the brutality she had experienced at the hands of her pirate captor .
when she relaxed with him she blossomed under his loving attention , giving herself to the man she loved in an orgasmic euphoria .
for two days , they were not seen as pierre indulged himself in the little lady with the heated passion .
nora was a well bred lady who , after the ordeal and in his tender care , became a vibrant young woman .
pierre loved every moment with her .
her love for the land and its people was evident when she showed him the estate .
her knowledge was vast and full of wit .
he knew he had made the right choice .
his mother would love her dearly .
she could entertain him , playing the piano masterfully , and made him feel like the luckiest man alive .
they laughed easily , enjoying life in general and were a beautiful couple .
her mother was at ease when nora left with her new husband .
pedro gave rosa lee a letter to their parents explaining all the events , and his employment with the d.e.i.c .
with the promise that he would see them soon .
he had turned into a responsible , hard working man that loved the sea , a man her father would be proud of .
captain alfonso was found with their fathers merchant ship , healthy and with a toothless grin .
the d.e.i.c .
hid him away so that the falcon could not find him .
when rosa lee saw him , she cried for joy , flinging herself into the older mans arms .
he patted her on the back , assuring her that he was fine .
she thought that he had also fallen under the sword of the pirates , and was greatly relieved when he joined them on route to portugal .
soon all were on the deck of the almaida merchant ship , heading back to portugal .
the group was excited about their new lives awaiting them , but roberto had to admit to himself that he dreaded meeting his new father in law .
what kind of reception would he receive from cisco almaida ?
they had not met under the best of circumstances .
he had kidnapped the mans daughter right under his nose .
how would he react to their bonding as a married couple ?
looking at his sleeping wife , he stroked the protruding belly with a big calloused hand , a contented smile a permanent fixture on his face now .
the scar was part of his attractiveness and not fierce looking at all .
he loved her .
there was no doubt in his mind , but meeting this brave man he had heard of so many times made him worry .
what if he did not accept him as her husband ?
could he really live without his rosa ?
there was just no way he could .
he scowled and he pulled her closer , leaning over the sleeping form and kissing her , demanding attention from her sleepy form .
with a sigh , she opened her warm mouth .
he covered her with his body , desperately searching for her , and in a daze she realized something was wrong , a reminder of the days before they had met the falcon .
since then she had gotten used to her very tender husband and she pushed him back softly , not to alarm him .
her eyes blinked in the dark to take him in and she whispered , hey , what is wrong ?
he did not answer , and just consumed her more with his heated desire , and although he stoked the same feelings within her , something was not right .
roberto .
she tried again , out of breath .
tell me , she urged him and he looked at her with sad eyes .
he bent his head low over her body again , demanding her , and she thought it best to comply , allowing him to brand her with his lips and body like those days at sea .
an all consuming passion sizzled in the air , fogging their minds and the world out there , until there were only their bodies connecting in a euphoric bliss .
when they finally came down , back on the soft mattress , wrapped in each others arms , trying to get in control of their breathing , she looked up into the gorgeous face and asked once again , what is bothering you , roberto ?
he looked at her with dark piercing eyes , tracing her spine with a finger .
it is nothing .
he tried to shrug it away .
no it is not .
come on , tell me .
she started to tickle him between the two ribs , a spot she knew by now .
he was ticklish and he grinned , grabbing her hand to stop her .
she chuckled .
you dont play fair , he pouted .
well , are you going to talk to me ?
she rose , leaning on her elbow , all her attention fixated on him .
he looked away , avoiding the piercing eyes .
she turned his face back to her , cuddling into him with a leg over him .
i am scared of losing you , he finally admitted , and she gasped why ?
i plan to stick to you like barnacles on the hull of the ship .
im going nowhere .
he knew this was stupid to think like this but he could not help it and the dread came out as a hoarse , croaking sound .
your father ...
he lifted his eyes , filled with dread and terror instead of his normal stern expression .
he will hate me .
dumbfounded , she looked at him , her lips parted in a gasp , and she lifted herself on top of him .
do you really think that ?
yes , i do .
she looked away , not sure what to think .
she had thought about her parents reaction during this time and what they would think of the union .
they would be shocked and surprised but they would not hate him .
they might be angry but they would not chase him away .
she turned her gaze back to him and laid a hand on the scarred cheek , beautiful and full of character .
they will never chase you away , she whispered .
they would trust my judgment and when they see that i truly love you , they will love you .
leaning closer , she kissed his eyes and face tenderly , with words lingering between each kiss .
you are an amazing man and my father will see that and love you , she continued .
he might be angry for a day , but he will love you .
she sat up straight , lifting her leg over him and straddled him , cupping his face .
i can not believe my big pirate who is scared of nothing is fearful of meeting the in laws , she giggled , and he grinned at her remark , but also at the perfect view he had of her .
my mother will adore you .
my other brother may challenge you , but he will like you .
he wrapped his arms around her body , her long flowing hair curtaining them in .
you are silly to think this way .
your father is cisco almaida .
even the falcon admired the man , and i kidnapped you out of his house , insulted him .
if it was me , i would shoot me .
she placed a finger on his lips .
he will not shoot you , roberto .
he is loving and caring , everything you are as well .
he will understand .
she placed another kiss on his plump lips .
he is brave and caring and not a hard , careless man .
you will see .
she began straddling him with her enticing hips and he groaned softly .
you are a temptress .
you taught me , so dont complain .
i know .
he said , and captured her mouth seductively .
22 the rest of the voyage was uneventful , if you call morning sickness between two women uneventful .
rosa lees morning sickness increased right after they started on their trip to portugal and nora followed a month later .
the men were extremely careful around them .
the seas continuous movement and the womens conflicting moods were tiresome , but they could not avoid the smiles of satisfaction in the private knowledge that they would be fathers soon , an idea neither had considered possible .
sometimes just to get out of the cabins the men would flee to the bridge where they would talk man stuff .
the men laughed at their expense , knowing the time they had was not always perfect .
rosa lee tried very hard to control herself , but the whole voyage had her nerves as tight as a drum .
she felt sweaty and gigantic even though she knew .
it was not true and roberto assured her he still loved her , all of her .
she was not convinced , and to make matters worse , when she did not retch it out , she ate as if for an army , the hunger a permanent resident within her swollen body .
her clothes were long outgrown .
the seams had been let out until nothing remained .
all she was comfortable in was robertos shirts , but that meant she could not go out , which was frustrating in the stifling cabin .
not that roberto complained about less to get rid of when he wanted to cuddle into her .
nora had it a bit better but not much .
she was not growing at such a gigantic pace as rosa lee .
her dresses still fit in a way , giving her more movement on the upper deck .
her morning sickness lasted longer so that by the time she had her wits about her , she was famished .
but then seasickness would set in and the doctor filled his days controlling it .
the cook baked special biscuits in the hopes that it would help .
some days it was fine , other days nothing stayed down and she cried , which frustrated pierre tremendously , just holding her the best he could , with a handsome smile .
during those times , the two friends would stay on the bridge , giving their full attention to the ship , the maps and everything else happening .
but the trip was calm , with no real adventure to take their minds from their wives , consoling each other , looking miserable themselves .
now and then , the women would calm down and be the sweet women they loved and adored , only to chase them out again in anger .
after four months of rolling seas , steady winds in the sails and beautiful weather they saw land beautifully edged on the horizon .
they hugged each other in relief and the men joked with them , seeming unmoved .
they watched the land coming closer with every passing hour .
again , dread filled robertos mind , wondering for the umpteenth time how he would be received .
after that one time , he never spoke to rosa lee about it again but the nagging question remained in his head and he clenched his teeth as he looked at the unfolding land mass before him .
as the busy harbour came into view , he felt his shoulders tense and his rigid posture as stiff as a plank .
pierre noticed his friend and former captains tense posture and touched him on the shoulder .
you will be fine roberto .
you are making it too much of an issue .
if what rosa lee is telling us is any indication of who this man is , he will accept you .
dark eyes turned to him and he gave a tense grin .
his lips were stretched and even underneath the tanned skin pierre could see his friend was pale .
yes , i hear you , my friend .
relax .
pierre squeezed his shoulder once again .
there you are , roberto , love , rosa lee called out , the smile on her face radiant but tired , her body uncomfortably large as she held her back .
roberto turned to look at her with tender love , softening the tensed features immediately .
were you looking for me , rosa ?
he welcomed her body into his arms .
yes love , i was wondering when we will dock ?
she looked past him to the busy harbour .
large merchant ships lay in the overcrowded harbour , busy unloading or loading and they could see people scurrying around in the distance , too far away to identify .
not long now .
by nightfall we will be there and i will send someone to your fathers place to come and get us , he replied , wrapping her in his arms and kissing her cheek .
nora also joined them and together the two couples watched the harbour coming closer .
true to his word , by the time supper was served they had found a place and could send one of the men with a note to her fathers house , notifying them of their arrival and requesting a carriage .
two hours later , the boatswain announced the arrival of cisco almaida and pierre went outside to meet the hero .
love , you need to relax , rosa lee said softly , touching his thigh as he came to his feet , and he nodded , feeling animated in his actions as he helped his wife from her chair , her cheeks glowing with excitement to see her father .
the moment the dining rooms door opened and cisco almaida stepped , in roberto de ville stepped back , his eyes fixed on the giant in front of him .
for the first time roberto really looked at the man , three inches taller than himself .
cisco roared out to rosa lee , who gave a jubilant yelp and disappear in the big mans chest .
papa , she said , i have missed you , as bubbles of laughter burst from her and a beautiful smile adorned her face , looking up to the man who had raised her as his own .
i have missed you , my rosie .
roberto thought he was going to break her in two as his strong arms wrapped around the protruding belly of his pregnant wife .
a smile appeared on robertos face .
his wifes joy filled him and he eased up a bit .
feeling tension leave his shoulders , he unclenched his fists , but the tight jaw remained .
the man still did not notice him .
he was followed by a younger version of himself and rosa lee yelped out again .
manuel , brother !
my sister !
he took her away from their father , kissed her soundly on the mouth , and she giggled .
when they finally let her go and she stepped back , the two men who caused the dining room to be filled to capacity looked down at her and stopped at her swollen girth .
rosie , are you in the family way ?
cisco asked , and then he looked up to see roberto right behind her .
his light blue eyes filled with suspicion and surprise .
papa , i must introduce you to my husband .
she turned around and pulled roberto closer .
both mens faces turned menacing , especially manuels , whose face distorted into an ugly grimace .
he stepped in front of her .
step aside , sister , he hissed .
manuel , you dont understand !
what is this pirate doing here ?
he demanded .
he is my husband , manuel .
papa ... ?
she turned back to her father with huge eyes , looking for support .
manuel , wait , lets hear what is going on .
cisco stopped his son .
papa , i love roberto .
but child , he kidnapped you .
yes , papa , but he saved my life , mine and pedros .
let me explain .
her father looked down at her , his face grim and he touched her shoulder .
i think we need to go home .
mama is waiting for us .
then you can explain this .
he turned his gaze back to roberto .
papa , meet roberto de ville .
she introduced roberto .
cisco stretched out a paw and roberto took it , feeling the strength as her father gripped his hand .
he almost flinched under the pain but kept his face blank .
roberto , cisco said , we will talk about this at home .
roberto nodded .
yes , seor .
and bowed politely .
the reunion between mother and daughter was heart warming .
qonchita burst into tears when she saw the state of her daughter .
but her face lit as she touched rosa lees belly with the greatest tenderness and awe .
when they introduced her to roberto , she looked at him , then at her daughter , and saw the love they shared .
without any thought , she pulled him into an embrace and kissed both his cheeks .
he could not help but feel elevated by her .
he accepted her as a mother into his own life and returned her kindness , much to the dismay of manuel .
they had a hard time in controlling the young man , who just wanted to floor him at every possible opportunity .
cisco held him in and out of respect for his father , he walked away .
he came back later and joined them again .
in the meantime , they read the letter from pedro , who explained in detail what had happened and the plan they implemented to bring the falcon down .
slowly cisco came around , the wary look turning into one of interest .
deep into the night , five people sat in the study of the almaida castle as they listened to the unfolding story from rosa lee , who sat next to roberto , holding his hand .
when they had arrived , he had said he had wanted to explain , but she insisted on doing the talking .
because he knew she knew her family better , he allowed her to proceed .
pierre and nora were shown to their suite of rooms and they were already sleeping in the comfortable four poster bed by the time the others sat down together .
winter was already setting in and they were close to each other in the oversized bed , cuddling .
noras nausea had finally subsided and she was feeling like a whole person , to the great joy of her husband .
they decided to stay at the almaida castle until after the birth of their baby before they continued on their journey to his house in france .
he had already sent a letter to his mother and sister , informing them of his marriage and the pregnancy and wrote that they would join them before the next winter .
he explained that nora was extremely ill on the voyage and he did not want to cause her or the unborn child any more distress .
when rosa lee finally stopped talking , she smiled up to roberto , tired but happy , and he smiled , returning his gaze to the almaida family .
seor and seora , i know we have not met under the best of circumstances but i really do love your daughter , my rosa .
i have already handed my resignation in , and i plan to become the farmer i always wanted to be .
with her at my side , my future is filled with promise .
emotions washed over his face and both the parents could see that this man was genuine in his feelings toward their only daughter .
i never thought i could have this , a wife and baby to call my own .
i vow to look after her and treat her with the utmost love and devotion .
she will lead the life she is used to , lacking nothing .
my pirate days provided well for me over the years .
she squeezed his hand in support .
i love rosa lee .
there is no other woman for me .
rosa lee wiped away a tear , yawning behind her hand .
i appreciate your honesty , roberto .
cisco finally addressed him .
what you have done for my children put me in your debt and i can see that you really care for rosa lee and love her .
i could not have chosen better than you .
i understand why you had to come and drag her out of my house like a thief in the night .
roberto flinched under the piercing gaze .
you are a good man , seor , roberto said .
no , son , just a man who has walked the path and understands much more .
thank you , papa , rosa lee added and yawned again .
i want to get my wife in bed , if you dont mind .
yes , of course , roberto , she is tired after the long journey .
i will have the physician here tomorrow to look at both ladies .
in the meantime , son , you are welcome in my family .
cisco raised himself to his full height .
his wife followed him .
he clasped robertos hand in a fatherly gesture .
thanks , seor .
papa will be fine , son .
roberto swallowed at the lump in his throat .
papa .
when was the last time he had used that word ?
his eyes misted over and the man stepped forward and gave him a bear hug .
later that evening , with the smouldering fire in the hearth creating shadows against the walls and thick curtains , roberto watched his wifes sleeping form .
he brushed away the dark locks covering her beautiful face .
the shadows underneath her eyes showed that she had not yet recovered from the journey , but her breathing was slow and at peace .
he had one hand on the stretched belly and one hand under her face , the pouty lips warm and inviting .
he could not help but smile , tenderly touching the soft skin and tracing every line on the youthful face .
a dimpled smile appeared as she cuddled deeper into him .
his rosa .
all his worries over the last four months were dispelled as utter nonsense .
he could only shake his head at his own stupidity .
his fretting was in vain and he pulled her closer and closed his eyes .
he slept the sleep of a contented man , his world perfect .
three months later , twins were born to roberto and rosa lee , a daughter they called madelyn , after his mother , and a son , francisco , named after both grandfathers .
roberto was like a proud peacock showing its colourful feathers in a swelled chest .
the two children were a true delight to him and he could not thank her enough for such a joy .
he was determined more than ever to be the man his own father had been , with the gracious help of cisco , who was equally proud of his two grandchildren , spoiling them with gifts .
a month later , victoria du val was born , spitting image of her mother , and pierre was impressed with the beautiful baby who slept soundly in his arms .
he wanted to hold her as much as he could because his days with her were almost at an end and he did not want to miss anything right now .
the castle was filled with laughter and baby voices .
both qonchita and cisco enjoyed the two couples .
the men spoke about their experiences and the women about babies , as well as their up and coming travels to their new homes .
manuel accepted roberto reluctantly and in the end , they departed in good spirits .
nora and rosa lee became good friends during the voyage and the months at the estate .
by the time they departed to their new homes , a journey of just over a week to france , the two women cried .
this created a cacophony of distressed cries when the babies joined in , not understanding all the tears .
they just knew their mothers were in distress .
the two men had their hands full , calming them all down , and by the time they left , everything was as it should be , in control and at peace .
the pirate farmer and his rosa were content with their new life .
the end authors history lynelle clark is a south african who loves her country , its people , and the rich history .
she lives with her husband of 28 years in gauteng , south africa .
she has three children , arline , odette and paul , one grandchild , nathan .
she started to write in the beginning of 2010 after she found herself isolated and without work .
her love for reading prompted her to write her own stories , drawing from lifes experiences and lessons learned .
the promise the lady quill chronicles book 1 by d.d .
chant the promise the lady quill chronicles copyright 2012 by d.d .
chant all rights reserved in all media .
no part of this book may be used or reproduced without written permission , except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews .
this is a work of fiction .
all names , characters , locales and incidents are products of the authors imagination and any resemblance to actual people , places or events are coincidental or fictionalised .
to mum and aunty carolyn , for all their support , and for aunty jan and her insistence on a complete absence of the word intense ! ! !
prologue dear reader , there are many things i could tell you of calis .
i could tell you the story of how the first lord berron was given the conquered lands by his saxon liege , as a prize in recognition of his bravery in battle .
i could even tell you how the second lord of berron had carried off the betrothed of his cousin , lord targhe , and installed her as his own lady .
or how from this point on the houses of berron and targhe , although really one , became bitter enemies .
it was an enmity that led to war .
lord targhe was defeated and calis liberated , but not before lord targhe had wrought his revenge upon the house of berron .
he believed that he had destroyed every trace of his enemies .
however lord berrons youngest child , a daughter then but two years of age , had been concealed by her nursing woman .
lord brogan of valrek , the saviour of calis , confronted by this vulnerable survivor who had no family to protect her , and whose very existence would infuriate the still living lord targhe , did the only thing he could do .
he appealed to his king for permission that he might betroth lady adele to his only son rafe , thereby giving her the protection she so desperately needed .
yet this decision was fraught with its own difficulties .
it is true that i could tell you any one of these stories , but i am going to tell you rafes and , consequently , adeles .
lady quill chapter one his attitude was quietly disapproving , arms crossed over his expansive chest , and eyes barely discernible beneath their lowered and heavy brows .
no good will come of this .
if he had expected this pessimistic utterance to restrain the man before him , he was destined to be disappointed .
the man at the table merely laughed , and his quill continued to scratch away on the parchment .
will you not listen to sense , rafe ?
i always listen to sense , stated the man at the table , grinning .
any sting his words may have contained was softened by that smile , which invited the sharing of some jest between the two of them .
but , rafe , continued the giant carefully , this is folly .
send me , or kenric , with some men , just do not go yourself and alone !
rafe of valrek shook his head and made no comment , but folded the parchment and spread wax over the overlapping edges .
neither man made any move to speak as rafe set his seal to the wax , and leant his tall frame back in the chair .
they were in lord rafes personal chambers .
a fur covered bed dominated the room , and a fire warmed the chill winter air .
lord rafe sat before the flames , a jug of spiced wine at his elbow on the table before him , his fingers playing absently with the stem of a goblet .
a second chair , half pulled out from the table , separated the two men .
you think me a fool , finan ?
i think you stubborn , a trait that unfailingly leads you into difficulties , muttered finan repressively .
and what have i done that you should have so little faith in me ?
i have never yet been bested by aught , have i ?
finan shifted uneasily , and sat down in the chair across from his master , his face suddenly earnest .
it is that which worries me you do not consider the possibility of defeat .
finan watched as rafe considered the parchment before him , his fingers tracing the edge as he thought over his friends words .
finan was not given to talking , he was a man who by nature kept his own counsel , and rafe knew his concern must be great for him to have spoken his mind .
ill do this thing my own way , finan , nothing that you say will change my mind .
finan had known his master long enough to recognise his determination , and to know the futility of trying to dissuade him when he was in a mood of reckless purpose .
still , he felt impelled to try .
you have never even met her , you do not ... and what is that ?
do you suggest that i disregard a word of honour , my fathers word of honour , and refuse to have her ?
asked rafe softly .
i meant nothing but that you need not risk your life on this errand .
come , finan now whos being the fool ?
asked rafe amused .
no harm will come to me or her that is the point of this subterfuge .
is your displeasure such that you will not help me ?
finan shrugged his broad shoulders in resignation .
you know that i will help you in anything you do , as long as there is yet breath in my body .
finan pondered over this truth for some time as he looked at his master , trying for perhaps the thousandth time to ascertain why this man engendered such fierce loyalty from his subjects .
as always he could not seem to come to any definite decision .
he remembered back to his lords youth .
even as a boy , he had commanded respect and affection .
he had the heart of a warrior , like his father before him , and had disliked any attempt to thwart his plans , seeing interference as a threat to his independence .
finan smiled at these memories .
his master had always been a reckless young hot head , plunging with impatient glee into any trouble he could find .
the years had bought experience and a widening out of his character .
rafe had seen battle and knew the responsibility of commanding men , men who would pay for his mistakes with their lives .
rafe had watched the glory that he had worked so hard to attain in battle fade , tarnished with blood and misery .
he had been taught , in the most painful of ways , the importance of patience , of caution that peace was more to be worked for than anything else .
even that compromise , so long as not of principle , was to be chosen over enmity and strife .
there was nothing that his men would not do for lord rafe , and in return there was nothing lord rafe would not do for his men .
it is as well that you will help me , for without you my plans would fail .
rafe leaning back in his chair fixed finan with a mischievous smile .
how would you like to be lord valrek , finan ?
silence filled the room .
i do not understand , replied finan slowly .
how should you like to lead my men , in my name , to lord merrodons lands ?
there is some small disagreement between him and one of the neighbouring lords that my liege wishes at an end .
rafes smile had stretched a little wider .
pardon my ignorance , but i still do not understand .
finan watched rafe finger the edge of the parchment before him again and waited .
why do you fear for my safety , finan ?
finan was slightly taken aback by the seeming change of subject , and paused while searching for a suitable answer .
my lord is aware , i think , that he is not loved of all men .
rafe laughed as though he saw only amusement in such a statement .
you put it mildly .
as always , finan , you are correct .
rafe tapped a thoughtful tattoo on the smooth wood of the table top , lost in his own thoughts .
as finan regarded him he saw his friends amusement disappear and many other , more stressful , emotions cloud his face .
finan saw many things then which he could not have guessed at from rafes merriment before .
he saw worry and apprehension , but could still only surmise at what these were directed .
there was something else too , so foreign to his masters nature , that for a moment he could not put a name to it .
it was with some surprise that he realised that lord rafe was in the grip of hesitation .
one could postulate that this hesitation was natural in a bridegroom who had not met his betrothed and had little knowledge of her .
however , finan was not given to conjecture , having a simple faith in plain facts .
still , he wished he knew what rafe was thinking , what was causing him to experience such uncertainty .
rafe ?
as you so succinctly put it , i am not beloved by all men .
in fact , rafe continued bluntly , it would be nearer the mark to say that i have many vastly unpleasant enemies .
i should hate for my bride to be singled out for their attention .
youll agree that she has been persecuted enough for her family ties ?
finan understood his friend well enough to know that he did not require an answer , and rafe understood finan well enough to know that he need not expect a reply .
in any case lord targhe lives yet and i have little faith that his murderous appetite is full slaked .
the room fell into easy silence again and finan watched his master stare into his cup , as though the answers he sought were hidden within its depths .
i understand that you wish to keep lady adele safe , but why do you not trust me to see that no harm comes to her ?
asked finan .
rafe shifted in his chair and finan watched in bemused fascination as a dull red colour stole into his masters cheeks .
he had known rafe since birth and had never before seen him make such a hideous display .
blushing was a womanly pursuit , and finan was of the opinion that no man should be caught making such an idiot out of himself .
if it were only a matter of her safety you know that i would have no hesitation in sending you , but my wish is that she should be brought here in secret , guarded by one man .
and why is it that i may not be that man ?
finan knew that his master was brewing trouble .
he had seen the signs a thousand times before and recognised a certain recklessness that could only lead to turmoil .
to finans great disgust his master repeated his chameleon performance , taking on a ruddy colour .
i hope to rafe broke off again and reached out for the wine jug at his elbow .
both men were silent as he poured a liberal helping into the two goblets that stood before him and handed one to finan .
you know my position , finan .
my father betrothed me to lady adele when i was but twelve years of age , with the aid of my councillors it was my duty to provide for her .
he looked up , steady eyes willing finan to understand .
for the sake of my father i can not refuse to marry her , for the sake of my own honour i could not beg off .
yet , i should like to know what sort of person she is , and i do not believe that were we to be presented to each other here at valrek i should have a true picture of her character .
we both should be ill at ease , and she would be conscious of a duty to please me .
silence stretched out between them and finan sifted slowly through his masters words , condensing them and seizing upon the underlying feeling that threaded through his explanation .
rafe wished to satisfy the question of whether his bride would like him for the man he was , or for being the son of the man who had saved her the man it was her duty to obey .
if she met him as lord rafe , she would be guarded , and he would not see her true colours , only that which she wished him to see .
he would not know if she was trustworthy , if he would need to watch her , if she would cause trouble in his house and upset his mother and sisters .
at this point rafe reached towards the wooden box on the table and withdrew a dozen or so letters , throwing them on the table before finan and watching as his friend studied the parchments with interest .
although i might not have met her , i have on occasion sent her some small trifles .
those are her letters of thanks .
rafe observed that , though finan had been turning the papers over in his hands , at his words he dropped them as though they had been on fire .
rafe grinned and relaxed back into his chair .
by all means read them , there is naught that my own mother could not see .
you need have no fear of stumbling upon any impassioned phrases of undying love !
for a moment finan tried to discover if there was any bitterness in his friends words , but he decided that lord rafe was merely amused .
finan turned back to the letters .
some were a little brown with age , but all were in good order .
they did not show any signs that they had been read more than once .
sneaking a look up at lord rafe he found his master gazing back into the fire , perfectly at ease .
if there was nothing of a lover like nature in lady adeles letters , neither was there anything of the impatient lover in his masters manner .
as it was , her letters were written in a fair hand , of a good length , and filled with small details of her home and the people who looked after her .
they were written in much the same style as a niece might write to an uncle of whom she was a little in awe .
in short , although reasonably entertaining , they gave little of the writers personality away .
he was a third of the way through the second letter when he became aware of lord rafes eyes upon him , and looked up .
some small trifles ?
asked finan , his eyebrows raised .
so far i have counted several items of jewellery , numerous bolts of material , and furs without number !
i merely sent her the things that my sisters , esme and aisly , seemed to think necessary to their comfort , replied rafe with a dismissive shrug , but a faint colour had stained his cheeks again .
finan shuddered involuntarily at the sight , and sent up a silent prayer that he would be preserved from all women .
he could only abhor the vile impact they seemed to have on a reasonable man .
shaking his head , he continued to peruse the writing .
there is something , i do not know what it is , that is strange about her manner of address .
finans eyes fell on the first line of the missive .
there in a pretty and elegant hand was written a simple title lord valrek .
understanding filled his mind and his eyes met lord rafes .
you begin to understand , i think .
she believes herself to be writing to your father !
yet again perfectly correct , finan , nodded rafe with a sigh .
the fault lies with me i always signed myself lord valrek and did not enlighten her when she made the mistake of believing my father was sending her these things .
as time went on it became more difficult to tell her a truth that would give embarrassment to us both .
for a time both men were silent .
finan realised that he would not be able to divert the course that rafe had begun upon .
what will you do ?
asked finan eventually .
rafe twisted the goblet in his hand until the light from the fire struck the gems set into its rim , making them glow .
my plan is to fetch her here myself , try and discern what sort of a person she is .
the timing is safer .
it is yet six months to the date that my father set for our nuptials , therefore no one will expect her to be moved .
certainly they will not expect a valrek to be so secretive .
they will anticipate a great deal of opulent show , and ill give it to them , but ill do it in my own way .
rafes eyes had been fixed firmly on the goblet but at this last , he turned again to finan .
this is where i need your help you will go to lord merrodons in my stead .
if that is your wish , my lord , bowed finan .
rafe watched him through narrowed lids , his hand restlessly swirling the liquid around his goblet .
you will go as lord valrek , finan .
finan started forward in his chair , his fingers gripping the wooden arms with such strength that his knuckles were white .
rafe ?
his voice was hoarse and his face seemed suddenly too pale .
it is necessary , finan .
i can not ... how will you explain to king ine ?
surely you must see that such a deception ...
i know , finan , so you must understand the pressing need for such an action .
rafes hand reached out to finger the letter he had , a few moments before , sealed .
if i am with lord merrodon , i can not possibly be collecting my bride .
i will take with me this missive , holding the valrek seal , giving order that lady adele is to be released to my charge .
finan allowed his masters words to linger on the air for some moments .
and if i am to be you , who are you to be ?
lord rafes eyes were again fixed on the flames in the fire place .
why i shall be no one a nobody that she will feel no need to impress .
and what of lord merrodon ?
when he learns the truth you will have made another enemy .
rafe smiled softly .
i never knew you to be dramatic before .
finan choked in indignation .
lord merrodon will give me no trouble , finan , for the simple reason that , after i have deposited adele at valrek , i will join you and explain everything to him .
rafe extended his arm and , still in his relaxed position , pushed his goblet onto the table .
he will cause me no trouble .
what does your father say to this , rafe ?
finan watched lord rafes face carefully as he shifted in his chair .
my father said a great many things on the subject , he replied with a forced air of unconcern .
i can not recall his precise words , but i understand that he believes a course that begins with deception , ends in trouble .
finan watched as several emotions crossed lord rafes face and felt sympathy for him .
he was aware of the very high regard in which lord rafe held his father , the implicit trust that he put in his fathers wisdom .
lord brogans disapproval would be weighing heavily on his mind .
finan was rather surprised that his master intended to continue on a course disapproved of by lord brogan .
with some interest he inquired if his master did not think that perhaps lord brogan was right to advise caution .
my father , although it is true not enamoured of my plan , does not forbid that i carry it through .
finan smiled faintly .
no , my lord .
lord brogan displays a great deal more understanding than to forbid a course you are so determined upon .
i see i am sunk yet lower in your esteem , finan ?
rafe smiled ruefully .
no , although it is advisable to learn from the wisdom of others .
do you not think that your father is right ?
i have to know , finan , answered lord rafe slowly .
i know it should not matter to me what sort of person she is , or whether she will be happy here .
yet i still need to know you can understand that , can you not ?
finan regarded the untouched wine in his goblet .
i take it that your father did ?
he understands that the situation is difficult , replied rafe cautiously .
for us both .
then you must do as you think best .
you reserve judgment , finan ?
asked lord rafe , his tone playful .
or is it merely that you are prohibited by your position from telling me how many times a fool you think me ?
neither , my lord .
you know such a consideration would not weigh with me if i thought you in danger .
the truth is i have no opinion to give , answered finan with a shrug .
on the whole i believe women to be the root of all trouble , i do not see how you can escape that trouble no matter what you may do .
rafe laughed heartily at that .
spoken like a true bachelor !
finan saw no reason for such hilarity .
i have known you to make such a statement yourself , my lord .
well , maybe they are troublesome , but we would be in sore straits without them .
aye , but there are plenty of poor fools to see that the world is peopled .
i see no need to join myself to their ranks , answered finan comfortably .
i see i suppose i am to become one of those poor fools you pity so much ?
smiled rafe .
finan looked at his lord , genuinely surprised .
why no , my lord .
for the sake of your name you must have a son , and for your fathers honour you must marry the lady adele .
despite all that , i know that at heart you are a bachelor .
for a time there was silence in the room and lord rafe leaned back in his chair , closing his eyes .
for my brides sake i hope you may be wrong , finan .
chapter two to say that lord rafe was made uncomfortable by his fathers disapproval was something of an understatement .
rafe felt strongly his sires displeasure and it saddened him , but he could see no other course open to him .
rafe reached the door of his fathers apartments and halted , smoothing his hair across his brow and taking a deep breath .
it didnt occur to him that this little ritual might be considered strange in a man in his twenty eighth year .
if asked he would have said it was a mark of respect .
he would no more have entered battle without first rallying his troops , than enter his fathers presence in the hall without first being sure he was tidy .
the wooden walls of the great hall were hung with tapestries and smoke from the fire filled the air , flavouring every breath .
his father sat at the head of a long table , occupying a large , fur covered , chair set at an angle so that the warmth of the flames in the hearth reached him .
he was speaking with a small wizened man dressed solely in black .
master rafe !
hello , stilman .
rafe smiled at the old servant .
i am come to speak with my father if he is free .
im always free to see my most troublesome son !
lord brogans voice wafted across the room from where he was seated behind the heavy table .
i happen to be your only son , sir .
that would explain why tis only you that gives me trouble then .
lord brogan turned to stilman .
that is enough for today ill call you if i need aught else .
stilman retired from the room , leaving its remaining occupants in uneasy silence .
rafe shifted his weight awkwardly and pulled on his tunic .
i take it you are ready to leave ?
yes , sir .
rafe hesitated , fingering the sheathed knife on his belt .
i had hoped to make you understand why i have chosen this path before i left .
tis not my wish to hurt you .
lord brogan regarded his son closely for several moments before heaving a large sigh .
i do understand , rafe .
i know that you think because i disagree with your present course , i do not comprehend your reason for pursuing it .
i know that this is not what you would have chosen for yourself , that it is hard for both you and her .
lord brogan came around the table and placed his hand on his sons broad shoulder .
one day you will have a son of your own , rafe , and you will see that tis no easy thing .
you hold him in your arms and he is naught but a scrappy little thing .
no matter how big he becomes , to you that is how he remains a tiny bundle that you must protect .
tis hard for me to let you find your own way , but you must do as you think best , rafe , and i wish you success .
rafe grasped his fathers hand tightly in his own .
forgive me , father ?
for what ?
growing to be a man ?
lord brogan patted his sons shoulder .
you must be careful , rafe even the best laid plans can somehow become tangled .
the village was big , much bigger than he had expected .
he had thought to find a few hovels , but not the self contained village that thrived before him .
the huts were set around the base of the hill and were in turn surrounded by well kept fields .
rafe made his way along the track that led through the huts and up the hill , and came to a guard post .
the man within made his way towards rafes horse slowly .
as he approached , rafe noticed that his tunic was liberally splashed with his mornings repast .
what is your business here , sir ?
i am here to visit the fort .
rafe watched the man look past him at the horse he was leading , and then back at the chain mail rafe was wearing .
i am afraid , sir , that you can not visit the fort .
the man rocked back on his heels and supported himself on his spear , looking up at rafe with a faint air of apology .
lord valrek sent me with this letter to the fort and to the lady who has charge of lady adele .
rafe held the letter out toward the man .
the second the soldiers eyes lighted on the valrek seal , and he straightened .
your pardon , sir i was only obeying my orders .
lord valrek shall know that you have performed your duty well , soothed rafe , and with a nod he urged his horse up the track .
the fort was old , set atop the grassy hill , and looked uninviting and cold .
rafe felt a faint qualm as he wondered if it portended in some way the cold inhospitality of its inhabitants .
no man , reflected rafe , however honourable wished his bride to be associated in any way with epithets such as uninviting and cold .
he had always supposed that his betrothal would become more palatable to him as time passed .
no one could expect a lad in his twelfth year to greet the idea of a wife with anything but derision .
he had assumed that as the years moved on he would feel differently , and he did feel differently , but still just as difficult .
his very nature rebelled against being forced into a position he had neither made nor wanted .
it was a circumstance that made for a very inauspicious start to an inevitable relationship .
these were hardly cheering thoughts .
he slipped from his horse , pausing for a moment to take a deep steadying breath , before pulling the bell cord with more vigour than was necessary .
the peal sounded loudly , echoing down the hill , clear and pure on the cold air .
rafe waited , his complete stillness hiding a certain impatient restlessness that , though very much a part of his character , he always sought to control .
it seemed to him that he stood there an eternity , and in truth his wait was rather lengthy .
finally he heard the sound of the bolts being drawn back , and the heavy oak door opened a little .
yes ?
rafe found himself subjected to a hard and searching glare that was so unexpectedly ferocious , he was for a moment bereft of speech .
the penetrating , dark eyed stare roamed over him swiftly .
for the first time in his life rafe felt that the owner for those brilliant orbs was neither pleased nor impressed by what she saw .
kindly state your business or be gone , young man .
the voice was sharply bracing and rafe suddenly rediscovered his tongue .
i come from valrek with a letter from lord rafe .
those bright little eyes glared at him for an unnerving moment longer , and then the door was opened wider .
well ?
get in with you do you think i have naught else to do but stand here and hold this door ?
rafe ducked his head and passed through into the courtyard to find himself confronted by an elderly woman .
her face was heavily wrinkled , yet made lively by her curious , questing eyes .
she was , rafe reflected , the tiniest woman he had ever beheld .
the top of her head hardly reached his chest , but whatever she lacked in stature she more than made up for in spirit .
she led him across the courtyard toward a stone building .
the fort was , as he already knew , a relic from the roman invasion .
though not particularly big , its placement on top of the hill made it hard to attack .
the woman opened another large oak door and rafe entered into a hall .
the walls were covered in tapestries , and there were woven rugs on the uneven flagged floor .
the old woman pushed past him , muttering under her breath , and gestured that he should follow her through an arch and into the small room beyond .
it was furnished with a table , a few rough chairs covered in soft furs , and had a large fire roaring to one side of the room .
in one corner rafe could see some sort of needle work that had been hastily discarded on one of the fur covered chairs .
despite the warmth emanating from the fire , the stone walls made the room cold .
my name is mistress ardith , i am in charge of the lady adele .
mistress ardith had settled herself into one of the large chairs , seeming quite unconcerned that her feet were no longer able to touch the floor .
you have , i think , a letter for me ?
she asked .
rafe held the missive out to her and waited for some time to be invited to take a chair .
it became obvious that no such offer was going to be made by the lady so deeply engrossed in the letter that he himself had written , and so he sat down without being invited or having asked .
mistress ardith read the letter through twice before again directing her attention upon rafe .
she seemed surprised at not finding him standing before her still , and frowned as she saw he had made himself comfortable near the fire .
your master writes that he has sent , she paused , taking up the letter again and reading aloud an excerpt .
the man whom i most trust .
she looked at him severely over the top of the letter and he fancied that lord valrek had fallen far in her estimation .
lord valrek tells me in this missive that i am to release lady adele to your , again she consulted the letter , to your most trustworthy custody .
she regarded him again as though she could not quite reconcile the words in the letter to the man standing before her .
the letter makes no mention of a travelling companion for lady adele .
i believe lord rafe considered that you would provide a young lady .
mistress ardith nodded her assent and then appeared to lapse into thoughtful reverie .
she was suffering a great many misgivings .
it was not her place to question her employer , but she found herself disliking the slights that she perceived lord rafe to be offering adele .
his failure to collect his bride himself could be seen as nothing less than a slight , and the young man he had sent in his stead mistress ardith resolutely bridled her thoughts , she was thinking above her station .
still something had to be said , if only to assure that this young man treated adele as befitted a lady of berron , and did not stint on the things necessary for her comfort .
mistress ardith knew that adele would not call him to account for not giving her the respect and care that was appropriate to her station .
lady adele was placed in my care when she was but two years of age , she has spent her life confined within the walls of this place and has been raised to be lord rafes wife .
in short , you can not expect her to undertake any sort of hardship , she is far too delicate for that .
mistress ardith thought she detected a faintly disparaging gleam in rafes eyes but could not be sure .
she must be well taken care of .
there are many things she has no experience of and which might upset her if you are not quick to shield her from them .
you may depend upon me .
the look of extreme dubiety that greeted this statement left rafe in no doubt as to the thoughts running through mistress ardiths head .
his found he had to repress an amused smile , he rather liked the stern old lady .
there is yet one thing .
you will be the first man that lady adele has seen these sixteen years , she may be a little surprised .
the silence that greeted this statement was , mistress ardith realised with astonishment , an angry one .
what ?
rafes voice was not loud , but mistress ardith had the strangest feeling that it had taken a great deal of self control to keep it at so reasonable a level .
lady adele has been kept in seclusion waiting for her husband , returned mistress ardith , surprised by a strange need to explain herself .
in seclusion ?
what possible use is that ?
it was decided that it would be best , answered mistress ardith , taken aback by such fervour .
her whereabouts had to remain a secret , and it was possible that lady adele might form some attachment .
such a circumstance could only bring her unnecessary pain when an attachment of that sort was impossible to act upon , she being promised already to another .
my own sister was betrothed in her fourth year , but we found no need to secure her in a tower that she might not have her heart broken by a man who she was unable to marry , stated rafe shortly .
it was considered that the knowledge that she was betrothed would keep her safe from such disappointment .
of what use do you suppose lady adele will be to her people , people who have waited sixteen years for her return ?
lady adele ... she will be of no use to anyone , least of all to her husband , interrupted rafe .
although i dare say her needle work is above reproach !
mistress ardith folded her arms across her chest , smote by the unaccountable feeling of being somehow wrong .
what is done , is done and was done for the best .
she stood abruptly , indicating that he was to follow her .
now i will take you to your chamber .
it is too late for lady adele to be travelling tonight .
she seemed to struggle within herself .
i shall have some food sent to you .
mistress ardith left rafe at the door of the chamber where he was to pass the night .
as she withdrew he noticed , with a slight feeling of self reproach , that her eyes were clouded with worry .
chapter three adele ?
mistress ardiths voice wafted softly across the small room .
it was not the voice that rafe would have recognised as belonging to her , filled as it was with tender warmth .
a drowsy stirring beneath the covers told her that adele was awake .
adele , my love ?
the covers stirred again and then were pulled down , and a figure rose sleepily from the depths of the bed .
mistress ardith ?
what is it ?
whats wrong ?
her sleepy voice was pleasantly husky , and her eye lashes fluttered sleepily over large eyes .
naught , my dear , tis only that i have news , reassured mistress ardith .
strange , she had sat before the fire for a long while after she had left the young man , trying to think of the best way of breaking such tidings to adele .
it was a difficult situation and , whatever people said , this betrothal was not in the least romantic .
only a fool would think it romantic to marry a complete stranger .
adding to the general discomfort , lord rafe had not come to escort his bride to valrek in person but had sent someone else in his stead .
mistress ardith would have doubted any man to be worthy of adele , but lord rafe at that precise moment seemed of all men most unsuitable .
she became aware that adele was wide awake and watching her closely .
it seems you are to leave me , adele an escort has arrived to take you to your new home .
to valrek ?
adeles voice was a little dazed .
then he is here ?
it would be too much to say that this question was eager or hopeful , but it did hold an excitement that mistress ardith was sorry to disillusion .
no , my love , he wrote that his liege needed him elsewhere .
he had sent his most trusted man to escort you to his home .
no name was mentioned but from his manner , mistress ardith paused , a flush of remembered irritation staining her cheeks , which is very high handed , i believe he must be finan of gournay .
he is in charge of lord valreks army and is known to be a good friend to lord rafe .
adele did not seem at all cast down by the news that her betrothed had not come to escort her to his home , but she did seem perplexed about something .
for several seconds she grappled with the problem in silence , and then turned her dark blue eyes upon mistress ardith , frowning slightly .
but it is yet some months to the day of the wedding .
mistress ardith wondered whether or not to disclose the reason for this sudden haste to her charge , but decided that no good could come of telling her that lord rafe was afraid that certain unsavoury elements would try to harm her if at all possible .
maybe he wishes you to be settled in his home before you are married , she answered gently .
although adeles expression did not alter , mistress ardith was fully aware that she had received , and discarded , this explanation , giving it the barest minimum of her attention .
when shall i leave ?
tomorrow morning , child .
mistress ardith hesitated and rose from the bed .
you must sleep now , for you have along day before you .
at the door mistress ardith looked again to her charge .
adele had turned upon her side , curling up a little , one hand tucked under her pillow and the other folded beneath her chin .
she looked so young and vulnerable , mistress ardith hoped she would find finan of gournay unfriendly and imposing , not someone she found it easy to converse with , for that would be dangerous .
she closed the door noiselessly and made her way to the sanctity of her own chamber .
mistress ardith had never married and therefore had never borne children .
yet she loved lady adele with all the maternal instincts in her soul , and as she herself climbed into bed , it was to dampen her pillow with tears of parting .
of all things she prayed that lord rafe was a good man who would be kind in all his dealings with adele .
she was only too aware that love was an emotion of degrees .
at its strongest love was an ecstatic feeling of completeness , but kindness , thoughtfulness , and gentleness would inspire in any heart the somewhat softer stirrings of love .
while not ecstatic the gentle feelings of respect and regard were enough upon which to build a successful marriage .
if lord rafe were to express kindness and to be gentle with her , mistress ardith believed that adele would be sedately happy .
it did not occur to mistress ardith that lady adele might also be wakeful and musing along similar lines of thought .
however adele was indeed awake , laying upon her back and staring into the blackness of her room .
the moonlight shining through the slit in the wall illuminated her bedchamber , revealing the faint outline of a large chest that stood at the foot of the bed and the table set close to the hearth .
although the thoughts that were running around her head were many and varied , one emotion was conspicuous by its absence .
lady adele did not feel disgruntled she had not taken offence at lord rafes refusal to escort her to his home in person .
the chief reason for this lack of pique was that lady adele had always thought lord rafe to be kind .
he need not have had much interaction with her until their wedding day , but he had always been kind and generous .
often he had sent some small gift in her younger years dolls and other toys , and as she had grown , embroidered fabrics , furs , and jewelled trinkets .
at first she had imaged the gifts to have been sent by his father .
as she had grown older and re read his letters she had known , had guessed , that they were not the correspondence of a man , but rather those of a boy .
she had kept every missive lord rafe had sent to be read over and over that she might build up some picture of him in her mind .
lord rafe , however , had been content to let her think that his gifts were sent by his father , and she had not revealed her new found knowledge .
and so it occurred that lady adele was disposed to think well of lord rafe .
she did not think it very likely that she would fall in love with him any more than she thought it likely he would fall in love with her .
she was certain that she would like him very well and that they would find married life peaceful and agreeable .
though they might not experience a feeling of violent affection for one another , neither would their marriage ever be rocked by the turbulent storms of impassioned arguing .
long ago adele had decided that lord rafe must be a rather shy man .
after all , he had showered generosity upon her and yet had been reluctant to let her know of his kindness , preferring her to ascribe all to his father .
she knew him to be thoughtful for the things he had sent her had been chosen with the utmost care that they might delight her .
and she knew he must be very kind , for he had known that these gifts had reassured her , telling her that she was not forgotten , but rather cared for , not as a chore , not an uncomfortable responsibility , but as someone loved and already cherished .
yes , lady adele snuggled down further beneath the bedclothes , lord rafe would be slight but tall she fancied , very quiet and his bearing would be a little unsure .
that was probably why he had not come himself , because of a feeling of bashfulness .
adele found this rather endearing , in the same way she would have found a kitten endearing .
she would , she decided , take great pains to see that lord rafe felt easy around her .
mistress ardith always said that it was a wifes duty to see that her husband was at ease and comfortable .
adeles thoughts paused and she felt a sudden need to blink back tears .
mistress ardith tomorrow she would leave mistress ardith and this place , perhaps she would never again see the people ensconced within its walls .
strange , she had always known that this time would come , had that not been why the ladies here had spent every hour of every day instructing her ?
yet she had always dwelt upon the pleasant aspects of her new life of valrek , of lord rafe , of family not that the ladies here had not been a family to her , but somehow she expected something more from her husbands family .
although what more they could give her she did not know .
she had never thought about leaving the ladies of the fort before .
her mind had rebelled against thinking about all that she would lose on becoming lady valrek , flatly refusing to weigh all in the balance lest she discover that the answer was not one she could contemplate .
she knew nothing outside of the fort .
her life was contained within here she was sure of love , of friendship , of being with people that she cared for in return .
it was all very well to think of meeting lord rafes mother , sisters , and father but what more could they be to her than mistress ardith , mistress claire , or mistress kathryn ?
they had been the ones to comfort her through the tears of childhood , and guide her through the bewildering times of girlhood .
they had invested her with confidence in her own capabilities and a calmness of mind to carry her through womanhood .
adele felt , for the first time , the full force of what leaving would mean to her .
for an entire minute she was on the brink of mutiny , until her eyes chanced upon the wooden chest on the table across the room .
the soft light coming through the narrow window was reflected on the polished wood and it glowed with soft luminosity .
it was the chest that contained lord rafes letters .
adele slipped from the bed .
the stone floor was cold and she ran across it with light footsteps , taking the chest in her hands , and retreating back to the warm comfort of her bed once more .
pulling the soft furs around her to shut out the cold , she ran her fingers over the smooth wood .
the grain of the wood varied beneath her fingertips , and she opened the lid and withdrew one of the parchments from within .
if finan had been present he would have seen a marked difference in the letters that lord rafe had sent to lady adele .
they had been treasured and bore every sign of the eagerness with which she had devoured them .
adele could have recited every word from memory .
it was fortunate that rafe was unaware of this , for it would have unsettled him horribly to have known .
adele unrolled the parchment and gazed at it , although in the darkness it was not possible to see any of the words that were written upon it .
lord rafe was a kind , generous man .
in her hour of need his family had been there to rescue her , and in the years that followed their betrothal it had been he that had provided for her and kept her safe .
he had waited sixteen years for her that he might honour his promise .
after all he had given she could not withdraw , for he had her promise too .
for lord rafe too it was a wakeful night as he considered the information mistress ardith had given him .
lady adele would have been very surprised to see a great deal of impatient irritation in his face , for she had certainly never bequeathed her gentle , nervous image of him with such an emotion .
what , questioned rafe , had he ever done to deserve this ?
in his minds eye he saw torrential tears flooding from his brides eyes because he had come home late or failed to notice some addition to her appearance .
he had no time for such purposeless self indulgence .
he did not like to think that he might make her unhappy , but he had never had any time for the ridiculous passions of some of the ladies that he had on occasion observed .
his sisters were different , they saw no slight if one preferred to linger with the men than be punctual to a meal .
if you didnt notice immediately that they had arranged their hair differently they did not , as he had seen many a lady do , weep and condemn you as cold hearted and themselves as unloved chattels .
finan was in the right of it , he had always viewed women as a trouble he didnt need , but here he was saddled with not one but two !
rafe groaned silently .
yes , now he had the added delight of dragging lady adeles companion along with them .
how could he have forgotten she would need one ?
as if all this were not enough , it seemed that the woman he was to take as his wife was one more difficult than all the rest a shrinking violet who would probably dissolve into tears at sight of him .
what was he going to do with her ?
he knew his own faults well enough to be certain that they would not deal well together .
he had never been terribly successful at curbing either his impatience or his temper , and when in a good mood he was often filled with an exuberance that would no doubt alarm his milk and water bride .
he turned on to his side on the narrow bed , as if the movement would shut out such thoughts .
lady adele was his bride , it mattered not if the arrangement suited .
nothing would change the fact that they were bound together he might as well accept it .
he was dissatisfied with lady adele , mistress ardith , lord targhe , but mostly with himself .
he had always thought he was equal to anything , and yet here he found himself so very close to punishing his bride for something that was not her fault , for a tragedy in her past and for the person she could not help but be .
what sort of a man did that ?
chapter four rafe fidgeted impatiently by the fire in the sitting room that he and mistress ardith had occupied the day before .
he had hoped to be away from this place quickly , but mistress ardith had refused first to wake lady adele at so early an hour , and secondly to send her on her way at the coldest part of the morning .
his patience , never very lasting , was wearing increasingly thin .
as he moved from standing to sitting position for perhaps the hundredth time , it occurred to him that he wasnt handling the situation very well .
truth be told he was in the grip of such conflicting emotions he felt a little confused .
first among these feelings was expectation that finally he was to meet adele .
this sensation was closely followed by dread that she would be just as he imagined her to be , and last was a rather wild thought of escape .
it didnt occur to him that he should feel impelled to present her with a favourable impression of himself , but he was conscious of a wish not to frighten her .
so it happened that when mistress ardith finally deigned to bring adele before him , he did not rise from his chair , thinking that his size might cause her some alarm .
she was small , thought not as small as mistress ardith , in fact compared to mistress ardith she was quite a head taller .
she had her eyes meekly cast down displaying the longest , thickest lashes he had ever seen , but then he was not given to noticing such things normally .
her hands were loosely clasped in front of her , and she had a thick plait of mousy brown hair hanging over one shoulder that reached past her waist .
she looked terribly young her skin was white and smooth with delicately coloured cheeks , the curves of her face almost childlike in their roundness .
rafe decided in those first few moments that her hair was probably not the only mousy thing about her .
adele rose from her curtsy and looked up , she had expected to find him standing before her but he had remained seated in the chair by the fire .
for a few seconds she thought that everything about him was black from the hair on his head and the dark eyes raking over her , to the black frown on his brow .
rafe saw the flicker of surprise in her eyes and mistook it for fear .
he had been making as if to rise , but at this sign of distress his movements slowed and he felt a surge of compassion drown out his impatience momentarily .
the poor girl this must be alarmingly new for her .
lady adele , this is finan of gournay .
rafes eyes jerked sharply in mistress ardiths direction , but he said nothing .
she must think him someone he was not , it might as well be finan as anyone .
he bowed slightly but adele neither replied nor moved .
her blue eyes , open rather wide , were fixed upon him in a blink less stare .
rafes irritation flashed up again for she was just as he had expected her to be a scared little milksop .
adele had been thinking how very tall finan of gournay was when she saw the irritation and scorn enter his face .
she wondered what she could possibly have done to incur such feelings in him , for surely she was nothing to him but a package to be delivered to his lord .
she turned a little hesitantly to mistress ardith .
sit down , my love , reassured mistress ardith , gently directing her to the seat across from rafes by the fire .
adele did as she was told , the soft fabric of her dress making a whispering noise as she crossed the room and seated herself in the chair .
when she looked up she surprised a look of disdain in finan of gournays face , and lowered her eyes quickly that he should not see the sharp stab of anger that welled in their depths .
rafe watched her lower her head and a faint flush of colour stain her cheeks , his lips twitching into a mirthless smile .
her show of confusion irritated him .
i see that you are correct , mistress ardith , for you did say that she had been delicately brought up , did you not ?
asked rafe .
although there was nothing in the words themselves that conveyed his sarcastic displeasure , it was there somewhere in the timbre of his voice .
so that was it !
finan of gournay took her for a spineless fool and did not seem to be taking any pains to hide his disgust .
for a second her hands clenched into fists where they lay in her lap , but then loosened off again as the flash of anger she had experienced ebbed .
who cared whether finan of gournay thought her a wilted flower ?
it mattered naught to her .
with this decided she began to inspect him surreptitiously from beneath her lashes , deriving an odd sort of amusement from the way the opinion he had of her had put him in a mood of the foulest sort .
he was a well looking man , adele conceded , and in his favour he lacked the customary arrogant pride that came with such handsome looks .
in truth he seemed unconscious of his good fortune .
he had faint lines around his eyes , suggesting that in general he was good humoured .
all in all his face was , she thought , very expressive .
its well constructed features constantly adjusted in response to the things occurring around him .
about him there was an aura of impatient tension and , she decided , he was probably decisive .
he had been conversing with mistress ardith and she had not been following the thread of their discussion , but now his attention was again directed at her .
she was so startled by his thorough , almost rude , inspection of her , that all she could do was stare up at him blankly .
had she better not change for the journey ?
his words , impersonal and cold as the frost , allayed any thought that his conduct toward her would soften as time went on .
she is ready , sir !
replied mistress ardith tartly , thinking that it was not finan of gournays place to be thinking of lady adeles attire .
rafe looked over his betrotheds apparel again , this time a little doubtfully .
her dress was the colour of primroses , soft and pretty , ridiculous in the depths of winter .
he found himself rather liking the bright colour , and thinking that it would be nice to see her flitting like a sunbeam around the wintry valrek .
rafe was taken aback by the image , and felt very stupid for conceiving such a foolish notion .
he shook his head , surprised at his own thoughts .
as if valrek was not made bright and gay enough by his mother and sisters .
tis sure to be mudded , he warned at length .
mudded ?
asked mistress ardith .
yes , the heat of horse flesh against her will keep her warm , but the journey will be long and muddy in places .
a sudden look of foreboding entered his eyes .
she can ride ?
i dare say she could if she had the opportunity , replied mistress ardith with dignity .
rafes eyes narrowed in thought .
then she will have to be led .
he shrugged .
either way she must be dressed appropriately .
for a second mistress ardith was frigidly silent .
it was only the thought that adele might take ill if she were not well wrapped up , that caused her to send her charge to change .
when adele next entered the room her dress had been replaced with something much warmer and of a more sober dark blue .
rafe thought it was woollen but did not intend to get close enough to find out for sure .
he also noticed that she brought with her another young lady .
she was very beautiful , as striking as adele was subtle .
her hair long and curling , and was caught back from her face to hang down her back .
her red lips were full , and her eyes glittered with liveliness .
at first glance she totally eclipsed adele with her brilliance .
yet after a second and third it was strange how he found his gaze drifting back to the calmness of adeles face , almost as though mesmerised .
this is eda of mulland , lady adeles companion .
the young woman curtsied , and as she rose again rafe noted she was taller than adele .
adele was watching him closely she knew that eda was beautiful , and was curious as to how he would react to such loveliness .
he hardly seemed to notice , instead he turned a considering stare on her friend .
adele thought he might have used the same calculating inspection when weighing up the points of a horse .
some similar notion must have crossed edas mind , because adele could see indignation in her friends face .
very well , i shall take her too .
it was bad choice of words rafe realised belatedly , as the women gathered turned to stare at him in varying amounts of surprise or offence .
he had meant that she seemed fit enough to take the journey , but he could not deny that he had phrased it badly .
he ran a finger over the rough edge of his leather belt , feeling like some errant boy and wondering what it was about women that made him so ill at ease .
he supposed it must be because one could never be blunt with them , as was evident by the situation in which he now found himself .
the same words as he had said to the ladies , would have caused no such outrage if spoken to a man .
a man , rafe reflected , would not have searched his words for a reason to take offence as women seemed prone to .
the fingers of his left hand tugged at the leather tassels on his belt betraying his discomfort .
the ladies were still looking at him as though expecting him to speak again .
rafe clamped his mouth firmly closed .
if he attempted to explain he would only succeed in making himself appear foolish .
he knew only too well that in trying to make this better he would only succeed in making it much worse .
mistress ardith seemed to realise that no apology would be forthcoming and glared at him ever harder .
rafe wasnt moved he turned a little , studiously avoiding her gaze .
come girls , tis time to make your farewells .
the sound of her herding lady adele and lady eda from the room was more welcome than the sound of an enemys retreat , and rafe heaved a heartfelt sigh .
things , he felt , could only improve .
lady adele and lady eda wasted a great deal of time in saying goodbye .
it was an experience that rafe could only think of as trying , and he had to exercise huge self control as the ladies embraced and then embraced again .
they had gathered in the small courtyard to say their farewells , and rafe spent his time slowly turning the grass beneath his feet to mud .
he watered the horses at a large granite trough and , as they drank , took note of a small orchard just visible between a gap in the buildings .
he had been surprised by the tears that mistress ardith shed .
he had not expected anything else from adele she was probably crying as much out of fear as for the actual pain of parting .
yet mistress ardiths show of emotion had astonished him , and he began to wonder if he were being too hard on adele after all .
several other ladies had surfaced to embrace adele and eda in turn , cautioning them that they should never sleep in damp sheets , always to brush their hair a hundred times , and to never eat cheese before sleeping , along with many other things in much the same style .
waiting had never been a strong suit of rafes and he was relieved when finally they were ready to mount .
adele stared at the large horse before her , her eyes running over its great muscular frame .
how was she supposed to sit atop that ?
rafe watched the dubious expression cross her face and realised he would have to help her mount .
he tied the rein around a stake and smoothed his hand over the velvet muzzle of the grey horse as he passed .
quiet , charger .
the horse heard the command in his voice and was immediately obediently still .
all of this adele watched uncertainly as he advanced on her , put his hands to her waist , and tossed her onto the quiet horse , throwing eda up behind her .
he did not linger at the task but was , at the next second , seated upon his own mount .
it was strange to feel the powerful beast so tame and gentle beneath her .
it struck adele that she should be anxious and frightened , but eda was a comforting presence behind her .
gradually she relaxed as rafe took the rein and led them through the forts gates and down the steep track that stretched down the hill .
adele and eda continued to wave to the ladies of the fort until they were lost from sight .
it occurred to adele that he was still angry , he had not addressed a word more than was absolutely necessary to them .
she decided that she didnt care , it was rather amusing to watch him labouring under such chagrin .
besides how could she be bad tempered when finally she was free of the solid and confining walls of the fort ?
not that she hadnt been happy there for she had enjoyed love and protection all the time she had been sheltered within its walls .
yet she had always seen her time there as a kind of limbo a prelude to her life , a life she was waiting to begin .
and now finally it had !
they passed through the village and picked their way through the patchwork of fields that surrounded it .
how many times had she viewed these fields from the fort ?
she knew their every line and curve , but never walked through them , never felt the flax heads beneath her fingertips , or brushing against her dress .
it was something she had often imagined how would it feel to push her way through the tangled wildflowers ?
if she had concentrated hard enough , she had almost been able to imagine the sensation the drag against her skirts , the fragrant embrace of earth , moss , and sunshine .
she smiled at her own whimsical thoughts to be thinking of wildflowers when the earth was covered with a light frost and her breath was as little white clouds on the cold air .
she turned a little to address some passing comment to eda , and was just in time to see her friend wipe a surreptitious tear from her eye .
adele looked away , feeling the sudden plummeting of her spirits .
how could she have been thinking about walking through fields of flowers when she might have known eda was unhappy ?
she thought of randwulf , of eda leaving him and everything she had ever known at the fort , to come as her companion to valrek .
had she even had much choice ?
no , adele didnt think eda could have had much of a choice about anything that had happened in her life from the moment her father , a widowed creole , had left her as a child with the ladies at the fort .
adele remembered clearly edas arrival the tearstained face and beautiful black hair that had curled over her shoulders in riotous disorder .
mistress ardith had said that such an unruly tangle did not belong on a childs head , but she had never cut its luxuriant length .
adele berated herself silently .
last night she had lain in her bed and felt the unhappiness that leaving the fort would bring to her envelope her in a cold grip .
she had felt the anguish of parting , the uncertainty of the future , and it had scared and upset her .
how much more must eda be feeling when she was leaving her heart behind ?
it was too awful .
adele looked at the man riding silently before her .
he was easy in the saddle , moving effortlessly with the black horse .
in fact , with a black cloak wrapped around him and covering part of his mount , they almost looked as though they were part of each other .
as she watched , the horse whinnied and he leaned over to pat its neck .
steady you brute .
his voice was gentle , belying the harshness of the words .
for the first time lady adele felt slighted , that he should accord his horse more civility than her .
for some seconds she was submerged beneath a wave of mutiny , but resurfaced with the thought that he had probably known his horse longer .
this observation struck her as amusing , and she promptly forgot that she was not in the best of humours with him .
of all this , of course , lord rafe was in ignorance .
he had noticed neither the scenery or the changing moods of his companions , engrossed as he was in his own thoughts .
chief among these was the conviction that it was going to be a long journey home .
at least the ladies seemed content to spend it in silence , and werent forever talking of things he neither knew , nor wished to know , anything about .
it might not be too bad after all .
valrek was only a matter of a few days away and then he could be rid of them .
his mother would great goodness , what was he thinking !
he was supposed to be using this time to get to know his future wife , not counting down the seconds to the time when he could pass her on to his mother .
be rid of her indeed !
that was the one thing he would never be able to do , and if he didnt want to make his position untenable he had better stop ignoring her .
are you comfortable ?
rafe reined in a little so that their horse came abreast of his .
eda turned away abruptly , hiding her tears that what little dignity she had left to her might remain intact .
rafe was surprised by the rebuff and jerked his head around to adele .
her blue eyes had dilated , and she nodded her head slowly in reply .
inwardly he cursed her insipidity but , bridling his impatience , he tried again .
the first time you ride can leave you aching .
adele did not reply , but her dark blue eyes fixed upon him quizzically .
he found himself strangely unsettled by their steady , wide eyed stare .
tis possible that i will ache later .
for now im only pleased to share his warmth , and eda has ridden before .
it was , rafe realised , the first time he had heard her speak .
her voice was quiet and a little husky , the sort of voice with which to whisper an endearment , it was somehow caressing .
she seemed to hesitate .
why do you call him charger ?
she asked eventually , nodding to the horse .
hes a war horse , answered rafe , one of several belonging to lord rafe .
charger is the calmest , placid for want of a better word .
he would carry you through the heaviest of fighting at a charge , and he would not panic or flinch .
i see , and what is the name of your horse ?
rafe smiled , leaning forward to pat the great muscled neck of the huge animal again .
valiant he has more courage than sense .
charger and valiant , and what may i call you ?
finan ?
if that is what you wish , my lady .
rafes hand tightened on his rein and valiant jibbed .
he had been quite comfortable talking with her , but her words called to mind his deception .
he hadnt expected to feel bad about it , so ... deceitful .
finan finan adele tested the name , rolling it around her mouth with a frown of concentration .
fin an finn !
she turned to him , fixing him with her huge eyes .
can i call you finn ?
tis more friendly than finan .
if you wish , my lady , answered rafe , his voice was stiff , and he moved restlessly on his mount .
adele turned away seeming almost chastised by his unfriendliness .
rafe could have cursed in his vexation .
finally she had seemed a little more lucid , even sensible , which had surprised him .
with one slightly sharp reply he had put an end to her friendly manner and she had curled away within herself .
now she was studiously avoiding so much as glancing in his direction .
as for her companion , although she had refused to speak to him it seemed she had listened to the interchange between himself and her mistress .
she regarded him with a baleful stare , as though cursing him for his rudeness .
he felt suddenly horribly at fault , a need to explain himself .
it hadnt been that he was annoyed with her , in fact it was quite the reverse and he was angry with himself .
she had called him finan , finn , bestowing upon him trust and a tentative friendship .
suddenly he had seen that his father was right he could not win her trust only to destroy it with a petty deception .
how he had thought such a course as he had embarked upon a good idea he could not now recall .
how had he not seen the pit falls ?
no , that wasnt quite correct he had seen the pit falls but had thought the means necessary to the end .
now the problem was how to tell her the truth .
he had not told anyone that he was finan of gournay mistress ardith had assumed that herself and lady adele had not asked for verification , but he still felt guilty .
he had to tell her who he was before it appeared that he had tried to hide it from her .
concealing the truth from mistress ardith , he was sure she would forgive .
however , he doubted she would be as understanding if it transpired that he had deceived her .
still he hesitated .
it was ridiculous , he had to tell her and now .
the trouble was in finding a way , the right words , perhaps you know lord rafe well ?
rafe bit back an impatient curse did she have to ask that just then ?
but of course you do mistress ardith said that you were one of his most trusted friends , continued adele .
perhaps she was mistaken ?
adele observed that he had declined to answer any of her questions .
she was beginning to lose her temper she didnt know why he was being so unpleasant .
obviously he didnt like her , and that was his right in the sanctity of his own mind , but surely it was not his place to make it so obvious ?
adele began to hope that mistress ardith was wrong and that finan of gournay was not a friend of lord rafe .
illumination broke like a sunrise in adeles mind .
of course he was not !
it was merely that finan of gournays bluntness overrode lord rafes gentle nature .
well no matter what his thoughts on her where , she was determined not to be ignored .
finn ?
rafe grappled mightily within himself .
he could tell her , but what would her reaction be ?
his rather too fertile imagination supplied him with all manner of hideous images , all of which were variations on one theme that she would cry .
if there was one thing rafe could not stand it was a crying woman .
they made him dreadfully uncomfortable purely because he hadnt the slightest idea what to do with them , or how he was supposed to give them comfort .
and if it was not his duty to give them comfort then their tears grated even heavier on his nerves .
it could be said that i know him better than anyone , replied rafe giving in with a sigh .
but i never knew he was such a coward before !
he added privately to himself .
he would tell her the moment they gained his border .
that way , when she indulged in the inevitable bout of tears , his mother and sisters would be on hand and he could disappear hed gotten rather good at it .
goodness only knew where this course would take him , but as he had already begun upon it and was now committed , there could be no turning back .
he waited for adele to ask yet another question that , though not lying , he would intentionally answer misleadingly .
she said nothing , seeming somehow appeased now that she had managed to force an answer from him .
only he knew how damaging that answer could prove to be for them both .
chapter five rafe reined in as dusk approached at a place he thought suitable for camp .
having hobbled his horse , he approached lady adele and eda with the obvious intention of helping them to dismount .
had we best not continue ?
adele looked up at the darkening sky .
it will be night soon and we have not arrived at our lodging place .
is it far from here ?
rafe gazed up at her in faint amusement .
we have arrived , lady adele , he answered , reaching up and lifting her with an ease she found she rather liked before depositing her gently on the floor and turning to lift eda off after her .
adele was grateful for the care with which he had set her down , for her feet were numbed with cold and even standing was uncomfortable .
she looked around , taking in the huge trees that were nothing more than dark shadows against the sky , and the small clearing .
she could see no habitation and , although sheltered , adele was conscious of the cold seeping through her clothes .
she pulled her cloak around her more closely .
i dont see a dwelling , she observed .
rafe laughed , an explosion of sound that made her jump , she felt eda grip her arm with a start .
do you not , my lady ?
he asked quizzically .
yet we have wooden walls and a roof of stars and , if my lady will wait but a moment , we shall have a fire to warm us too !
he was smiling again as he looked down upon her , teasing her for her lack of understanding .
her eyes , calm and clear , regarded him steadily .
you mean we are to sleep outside .
correct .
despite rafes smile he had been nervous , thinking that she might indulge in hysterics , her calm acceptance was a blessed relief .
outside !
eda looked over her shoulder and all around .
we can not , you can not expect us to !
rafe began to drag wood together , ignoring edas outburst .
it will be fine , eda .
adeles voice was comforting .
she was sitting on the blanket rafe had taken from the horse , her cloak folded tightly around her .
her voice seemed to calm her friend a little .
but adele !
it will be fine , eda , can you not see that finn is making a fire for us ?
eda drifted over to where adele was sitting and slipped her hand into her friends , squeezing it slightly .
just think , eda , what an adventure it will be !
a very cold adventure , muttered eda with a sniff .
adele smiled softly bringing edas hand to her cheek and resting her face against it .
rafe watched them out of the corner of his eye as he carefully coaxed a flame to the wood , feeding it until he had a roaring fire .
with a sigh of relief he realised that neither lady was going to indulge in tears .
eda moved towards the flames instantly , drawn by the promise of warmth .
adele hung back , still sitting on the blanket he had removed from charger , watching in growing admiration as , under his ministrations , the fire took hold , casting a warm light over his features .
a smile played about the corners of his mouth , softening the harshness that she viewed as habitual but which in truth had only plagued him for the last few days .
he was , she could see , enjoying the task and , in return , the chore seemed to be melting the tension from him .
he sat staring into the flames for a long while after he had finished building the fire up .
it was as though he had forgotten them , his task , even their surroundings .
somewhere the branch of a tree cracked , and adele saw his head jerk up sharply , eyes probing the darkness .
tension spread through every line of his body .
he turned and saw adele regarding him , wide eyed and unperturbed .
you must be hungry both of you .
he stood abruptly , moving to where he had left his saddle and brought it over to the fire .
adele watched as he opened the provisions that had been strapped to it .
there was rye bread and cheese , chicken that was cooked , and a parcel of pork chunks that was not .
as he open this last package the aroma of spices filled the air .
those provisions are from the fort !
edas voice betrayed her surprise .
yes , one of the ladies , i assume she was the cook , was kind enough to provide me with them .
rafe watched in horror as edas eyes filled with tears and he turned panicked to adele .
her large eyes were also glistening , though she resolutely blinked the tears away .
mistress kathryn she always adds those spices to pork , tis my favourite .
rafe saw nothing in that fact to weep over .
looking down at the parcel of meat he suggested that they might like some .
but how will you cook it ?
asked eda .
rafe grinned and pulled a few sticks from the bundle he had collected for the fire .
pulling out his knife he chose two that branched in to a v and cut these to appropriate lengths .
pushing the wood into the earth at opposite sides of the fire , he took another stick , long enough to reach over the fire and rest in the first two sticks .
sharpening one end to a point with his knife , he pushed some of the chunks of meat on to it and forced them along its length .
it will take a while to cook , but in the mean time there is the bread , chicken and cheese .
the cheese was formed into a large round .
rafe held the blade of his knife amidst the flames for a moment and , after letting it cool , cut off a sizable piece and held it out to adele .
she was still sitting on chargers blanket some way from the fire and on seeing this rafe frowned .
you should come closer to the flames , you shall freeze over there .
im fine , murmured adele , but rafe had placed the food back on the cloth and was moving toward her .
come , you should be nearer the warmth .
adele tried to object as rafe took hold of her arm .
his hand was warm , burning through the fabric of her dress , and adele suddenly realised just how chilled she was .
you foolish girl !
he exclaimed , making as if to pull her upright .
no , please !
eda grasped his arm and tried to pull him away .
leave her be , let go you brute !
what the rafe paused looking down at edas flushed face as she clung to his arm like an enraged kitten .
eda , stop , let him go , adele reproved , laughing at the sight of her friends slight form cleaving to rafe but having no discernible effect .
her face tilted upward , and her eyes fixed on his with an apologetic gleam in their depths .
we agreed , did we not , that i would be stiff tonight ?
understanding flooded through his mind , and he crouched down beside her .
is it bad ?
i think tis only that i am cold rafe passed an arm around her shoulders and , with a challenging look toward a glowering eda , took adeles hand in his free one .
adele had some vague notion that she should feel uncomfortable having him handle her so , but rafes attitude was aloof and impersonal .
she had the feeling it was a task he had preformed many times before .
here , you had best lean on me .
adele !
edas voice was agonized .
eda , do be quiet if you had any idea how battered i feel you would not be scolding me so .
rafe heard her make no sound of protest as he eased her upright , but when he looked down it was to find that her bottom lip was clenched between her teeth and her eyes squeezed tightly shut .
will you be alright ?
he asked presently .
adeles eyes fluttered open , dazzled for a moment by the fire light .
she seemed surprised to see him , as though she had expected him to leave , not stay to hover over her anxiously .
she looked down to where he still held her hand enfolded loosely in his own .
rafe immediately let her go , turning to pick up the blanket she had been sitting on and placing it nearer to the fire .
adele thanked him and sat down , reaching her cold fingers out toward the flames , smiling a little as eda flopped down beside her , shooting a cross dagger glance at rafe .
rafe had retreated to his own place , holding out the bread and cheese to adele again .
it seems to me that you have done this before .
you mean setting up camp ?
twas more the looking after troublesome novices like myself that i was thinking of .
she smiled softly .
many is the lad who wished he had stuck to farming after a hard days march , answered rafe with a shrug .
i have seen none that handled their discomfort better than you it takes a brave soul to suffer in silence .
eda looked slightly mollified at this utterance in praise of her friend , and adele flushed with pleasure .
rafe found himself thinking that , after all , he might grow to like this strange girl bride of his .
he reached out , taking the meat from off the fire .
its savoury smell reminded him that he was still hungry .
he wrapped a piece in rye bread and held it out to adele first , along with a wine skin .
she accepted this last a little doubtfully , sipped it cautiously , and choked over the unfamiliar brew .
wrinkling her nose distastefully she handed it back to him before remarking that the pork tasted even better cooked over the camp fire .
tis the cold and being hungry , answered rafe , passing a tasty morsel to eda .
it makes you appreciate comfort more when tis your good fortune to receive some .
you speak from experience .
a statement not a question , said in that quiet husky voice of hers whilst her eyes fixed him in their peaceful gaze .
i have spent much of my life in army camps , i can not begin to tell you the wonder a proper bed holds for me !
grinned rafe ruefully , stirring the fire with a stick .
how long ?
asked eda .
strangely he didnt feel threatened by the question it seemed the natural progression of the conversation .
since i was twelve i went into battle with my father , and i was more than grateful to have him by my side .
rafe dropped the stick and pulled up his knees , leaning his arms on top of them .
tis a strange thing a battle , most especially your first .
when you take part you think twill be glorious .
you stand upon the battle lines viewing the magnificent ranks of your enemy , and you feel a strange fear mixed with elation , because it is the day you prove yourself a man and a warrior .
mail flashes in the sunlight , and you feel the nervous excitement of the unknown .
tis an uncivilised emotion that grips you a kind of thrill .
he broke off , shaking his head in dissatisfaction .
it was as if he could not find the words to express the sights , sounds , and feelings .
adele felt that it had somehow become more than an explanation to him that since he had begun , he felt a burning need to present a true picture , one without embellishment or omission .
you only feel it the once with that first battle , after that you are cured .
his voice was bitter , his face strangely haggard and troubled .
all too soon you see the hell of combat men hacking grimly through the mess of soldiers , stumbling over the bodies of those who have fallen .
there is a particular look in their eyes , no matter which side they fight for , of horror and pain a deadness .
too soon it becomes obvious that there is nothing romantic in the sorry sight .
victory , when finally attained , is not courageous .
its glory , that seemed so bright , is tarnished and dirtied with mud , sweat , and the blood of men that should have been counted too precious to be spilt so rashly .
he looked exhausted , thought adele , as though somehow he were twelve years old again and looking at a battle field that had been burnt upon his childish soul , always to remain with him .
a horror of youth lost and destroyed , an innocence that would never return .
rafe told them no more .
he told them nothing of the aftermath of battle which was , in its own way , just as horrific .
he did not tell them how he had sat down in the mud beside a friend of his boyhood , knowing that he was dying , watching him slip away , but having no power to change the fact .
he had remained there , long after the boy had breathed his last , weary of soul and looking across the field of those slain .
he didnt tell them that it was there that his father had found him , so many hours later , as dusk had approached .
nor did he tell them how he had wept in his fathers arms , tears of bitter disillusionment and sorrow .
he had realised it was a waste that would continue , an awful rite of war that would take place again , over and over .
adele didnt press him to speak again .
he was lost somewhere deep in his own unhappy thoughts , experiencing a pain of which she knew nothing .
she felt sudden compassion for him , a wish to comfort that surprised her .
finan of gournay , of all men , had not seemed to have any need of the more tender compassions of life .
chapter six rafe had not found it easy to go to sleep that night .
in general it was not a problem for him .
years around a camp fire had provided him with the enviable ability of falling asleep with a rapidity that those who had not spent time on the march would have imagined impossible .
in conflict he had soon learn to take his rest when , and however , he could .
tonight had been different .
although he had accepted that the images of his first battle , along with all those he had engaged in after , would be with him for the rest of his life , never had they been so vivid before or had he been so unsuccessful in blotting them out .
the night had been cold but he knew , even as he shot into a wakeful state , that it had not been the cold that pulled him from his uneasy slumber .
the fire was burning low , but he was aware that any movement he made would be visible to those who lurked in the darkness outside the glow of light cast by the flames .
he lay still , knowing he had a choice to make .
he could wait until the fire had burnt down to embers , but there was no saying that the shadowy assailants would wait that long to attack .
or he could drag adele and eda awake and make a run for the horses .
his sword was at his side , along with his bow and spear it was possible that they could make it .
possible but improbable .
although he knew the horses could not have wandered far , in the darkness there was little chance of finding them quickly .
it seemed to him that the best option , as was so often the case , was to wait .
and so he waited and waited and waited a little longer , battling his impatience and feeling his grip on his restlessness slipping inch by inch .
finally he found himself wishing that they would attack just so the intolerable wait was over .
adele ?
his voice was so soft he doubted it would wake her , but he dared not whisper any louder .
he knew her head to be resting on chargers blanket just the other side of valliants blanket where his own was pillowed .
after a moments hesitation he moved his hand along the ground towards hers .
his actions were necessarily slow , so as not to be observed , and it seemed an eternity before his fingers came into contact with her warm hand .
yet when he had hold of it he wasnt sure how to proceed .
he wished to wake her up slowly so he could alert her to their predicament , not jerk her from sleep with a betraying start .
he considered thoughtfully for a few moments and then turned her hand , palm uppermost , gently brushing his thumb over her soft skin .
after a little while he felt her tug away sleepily , and tightened his hold in a warning pressure .
be still , adele !
he whispered hoarsely .
for a moment there was no answer , and then she returned the pressure of his grip .
finn ?
her voice was low and drowsy , lifting slightly at the end in inquiry .
adele , when i tell you , i want you to run , as fast as you can into the forest are you listening to me ?
stop for naught .
why , what is wrong ?
rafe wondered whether or not to tell her , what if she panicked ?
what if she screamed ?
he sighed knowing that he had no choice but to tell her .
we have been followed and in a while they will attack .
i will hold them here while you try to escape .
twould be best if you could find at least one of the horses charger would be best but valiant would do , both know the way to valrek .
take both if you can , ride one whilst the other rests .
whatever you do , do not stop before you reach valrek .
do you understand , adele ?
if you stop you will not survive .
he knew it was brutal to say it , that it did not inspire confidence , but she needed to understand that her life hung in the balance .
finn ?
what will you do ?
suddenly adele felt very alone and fearful at the thought that they might lose their guide .
if i can i will come after you , but you are not to wait .
if i can .
you mean if they do not kill you ?
the question was simple , calm .
i do not know how many of them there are , adele .
at my best i could take no more than five , maybe one or two more if they are unskilled .
tis unlikely that there will be so few .
adeles hand trembled in his but her voice , as it floated over the space that separated them , was steady .
could you not run with us ?
no .
and it was as simple as that .
the plan had been formed , adele knew it would prove pointless to argue with him .
he was mad , he was foolish , and he was very , very brave .
perhaps there were some who would say it was his duty , but she saw the action for what it was and gave him his full due .
she could not help but feel that so honourable a man should not die , and she closed her eyes to pray that this eventuality did not befall him .
a tear slipped from beneath her tightly shut lids and she bit her lip .
eda ?
rafe noted that adeles voice was roughened slightly and he heard eda moan softly .
eda , be quiet and lay still !
there was a few seconds pause , and then rafe heard edas voice bewildered and a little panicked .
adele , what ouch !
eda , please be quiet , begged adele .
you pinched me !
edas voice was confused and hurt .
eda , please just listen we have to run .
run ?
adele , tis the middle of the night !
i know tis the middle of the night , eda , but ... and where would we run to anyway ?
we are in the middle of nowhere .
eda , please be silent and listen !
adeles voice held an authoritative note .
when the signal comes we have to run in to the forest .
what signal ?
asked eda more confused than ever .
you shall know when you hear it , replied rafe .
when the attack came it was sudden and loud .
adele felt that if she had been woken from sleep by it , she would have been too disorientated to move .
she had been awake and tense , but not so tense as the man protecting them .
before the first shout had come to an end rafe was upon his feet , sword in hand , and ready to meet the attack .
adele rose more slowly , hesitating as she saw his cloak on the floor , before picking up the heavy covering and securing it over her own .
with a last look to where rafe was wielding his sword at the first of the attackers , with all the pent up anger of his wait , she grabbed edas hand and ran to the beckoning darkness of the forest .
the gloominess was frightening , closing over them with disorientating thickness .
behind her she could hear the sound of eda crying hysterically , mixed in with the sounds of metal against metal and bloodcurdling shrieks .
rafe did not turn to see if the two girls had obeyed his instructions .
with a soldiers sixth sense he knew they had gone .
he wondered how far they would get before no , he would not even think that .
it was then that he heard the sound , familiar to every soldiers ear .
the snorting of horses as they made a charge struck him with a feeling of ice cold dread .
it made his plan to make a stand whilst adele and eda escaped untenable .
his sword crashed against that of his adversary and he pushed the blade aside , delivering a heavy blow to the mans jaw .
the warrior pitched forward and lay immobile on the floor , but rafe did not need to wait to see the outcome .
turning on his heel , he plunged into the darkness of the wood , and prayed that he would be able to find adele before anything happened to her .
adele struggled along , the weight of the heavy fur lined cloaks hampering her progress greatly .
she found that pulling eda after her through the pitch darkness was no easy thing and she stumbled .
it seemed to her that the weight of the cloaks would pull her over , but suddenly she found herself supported .
the weight of the second cloak disappeared as rafe unhooked it and pulled it round his own shoulders .
he broke the frenzied grip of edas hand on hers and , grasping each of them by the arm just above the elbow , made his way deeper in to the forest .
they plunged through the undergrowth for a long time , but suddenly rafe stopped abruptly .
dragging adele against him , he flung one arm around her shoulders pulling her toward him , and pressed his other hand over her mouth .
eda sank , a quivering mass of sobs , to the ground .
adeles back was to the tree , rafes breathing heavy in her ear as he scanned the darkness over her shoulder .
for several seconds they stood tense in the gloom , then rafe looked down into her upturned face .
her eyes were wide but still calm , and he became aware that his hand was pressed over her mouth still .
with a whispered word of apology he released her , gesturing that she was to be silent .
he looked out again into the darkness , and whistled ever so softly .
adele listened in the silence that followed and heard nothing .
she looked up at rafe again but his face was thoughtful .
after a moment he bent his head towards her and she flinched away a little .
his grip tightened , he was so close she could feel the heat of his skin on the air between them .
stay here and keep quiet .
he looked down at eda where she huddled , still cowering , on the floor .
will she be silent ?
adele discovered a lump in her throat that she was unable to swallow , so she nodded her head .
then keep her so .
he moved away from her and instinctively she reached out to stop him .
he seemed surprised , and she released him hurriedly .
where are you going ?
the horses .
the horses !
lord rafe will not demand their safe return of you surely in a situation such as this ?
that is not do you wish to walk to valrek ?
adele shook her head .
then we will need the horses , for ill not carry you !
rafe stepped away from her and she felt suddenly unsupported .
as he disappeared into the darkness she felt a blush flood her cheeks .
for several seconds , as he had bent his head so close to hers , she had thought well ... imagined that he would he had been so close it had seemed as if his intention could only be to ... she blushed ever hotter and shook her head .
had he guessed at her thoughts ?
did he know what she had supposed he had been going to do ?
she prayed not .
edas muffled sobbing broke in on her inner musings , and she sank to the ground .
passing an arm around her friends shoulders she drew edas trembling form into her arms .
tis alright , eda .
alright !
adele did you not see those men ?
they were trying to k kill us !
edas voice trembled and she brushed a hand over her wet cheeks .
adele rocked her back and forth slightly , and edas weeping lessened a little .
they were still sitting thus when adele heard the snap of a twig .
her frightened eyes fell on the bow and arrows that rafe had left behind , and she reached out , slipping an arrow against the bow string .
pulling the arrow back she pointed it in the general direction of the approaching sound .
a dark shape became visible , moving towards them on horseback , and adele closed her eyes , grit her teeth , and let the arrow fly .
she still had her eyes closed when rafe jerked her to her feet .
what the what did you think you were doing ?
he demanded .
do you know how close you came to finding your mark ?
he shook her roughly as if to drive home his point .
h how ?
rafe made a curt gesture for silence and drew her toward the horse .
just get on the horse , he whispered irritably .
he wrapped his arm around her waist , lifting her from her feet , and set her on chargers back before turning to eda .
she staggered as he helped her upright and fell against him , trembling violently .
tis alright now .
eda sniffed and allowed him to lift her on to the horse .
it is ?
all is well , assured rafe .
eda nodded and rested her head on adeles shoulder .
so you will believe him but not me when i tell you that all is taken care of ?
demanded adele cajolingly .
eda snuggled her cheek against adeles shoulder .
yes , she answered simply .
chapter seven they rode through the trees until the grey light of dawn filtered through the bare branches and they came across a creek .
eda sank to the floor , pillowing her head on her arms .
adele sagged against one of the large moss covered rocks and closed her eyes .
she was tired , so weary that she felt she could sleep for days if given the chance , and every inch of her felt bruised .
rafe subjected them to careful scrutiny .
both women looked pale and fragile he wondered how long they could take the pace before they started to weep and beg for it to stop .
adele opened her eyes suddenly , meeting his considering gaze and disconcerting him .
how many ?
rafe continued looking at her blankly .
i mean how many men were there ?
i counted twelve .
rafe turned his face away from her probing stare , he did not wish to scare her with an estimation of those he had not seen .
she looked relieved at this evaluation .
where did you learn to use a bow ?
asked rafe suddenly .
for im certain that mistress ardith never taught you .
adeles face was innocent with no hint of guile as she answered him .
no , i do not suppose that mistress ardith has ever handled a bow .
no doubt you will tell me it was one of the other ladies at the fort .
not if you will not believe it .
rafes eyes narrowed , swift suspicion filling his mind .
for a moment he said nothing more , but knelt on the grass beside the creek and scooped the ice cold water over his face and neck .
he knew that her gaze was upon him , as gentle and unconcerned as it always was .
looks can be deceiving can they not , lady adele ?
she rubbed her hands together , trying to warm them .
tis not my fault that you conceived an erroneous opinion of me barely a second after our meeting , and without even waiting until i had spoken a word .
and your marksmanship ?
for a moment he fancied that she hesitated .
randwulf taught me .
rafe felt a sudden and uncomfortable sensation in the pit of his stomach , caused by the ruthless removal of all his solid facts .
it was disconcerting to have the image of adeles spiritless character , and the so called seclusion of her life , ripped from his mind .
and who is randwulf ?
a friend , smiled adele softly , looking away .
a friend ?
eda struggled upright , listening to their conversation carefully .
adeles eyes smiled into hers , and rafe was surprised by a vague idea that her gaze held reassurance .
a good friend , adele answered quietly .
rafe was surprised by an unaccountable dislike for the unknown randwulf .
he had been annoyed by the disclosure that adeles life had been so insular .
however , the discovery that this was not so did little to quench his temper if anything his anger seemed to burn ever more fiercely .
he rubbed the tip of his cold nose and looked up at the top of the trees .
why did you come with us ?
her words made no sense to rafe and it was a moment before he answered .
you need me to protect you .
but you said that it was better for you to make a stand and not come with us .
that was before i heard the horses .
rafe glanced speculatively behind him in the direction that they had come .
what is it , finn ?
is something wrong ?
nothing .
his stormy gaze dropped to her again .
we can not rest here long , twould be best if you had a drink .
he hunched his shoulders in the frosty air , rubbing his hands together .
then , if you are ready , we should keep on moving .
we have only just arrived !
protested eda .
you can not expect us to carry on like this we need to rest !
you can rest if you like , shrugged rafe , but the horses and i move on in five minutes .
eda gasped in surprise .
you swine !
she choked .
eda !
well he is , making us sleep outside and dragging us through this horrid forest , which seems to be inhabited by people whose dearest desire is to kill us .
eda , stop it .
or at the very least if you must feel sorry for someone , feel sorry for the horses .
they have as little rest as you do , but in between must carry your dead weight , reasoned rafe .
for a moment all was silent .
are you suggesting that i am heavy ?
demanded eda .
a sound suspiciously like a giggle broke from adeles lips as eda glared at him in indignation .
you deserved that , eda .
adele pushed the tangle of curls back from her friends face .
come , stop this , tis of little help .
but , adele , tis all so vile !
you have said that already , dear .
adele squeezed edas shoulders .
so perhaps it is a little uncomfortable eda snorted .
a little uncomfortable , repeated adele reprovingly , but we are all experiencing the same discomfort and it can not be helped .
let us not think , or talk , of it anymore .
eda sniffed and wiped the back of her hand over her cheeks .
i do not believe that oaf could possibly be feeling it the same as i , mumbled eda , her tone a little lighter .
rafe grunted .
adele shook her head at them both , and sank to her knees before the pool .
i believe that we will find finn to be true his word youd best have a drink and a wash eda .
i do not think so tis far too cold .
eda !
alright , alright , placated eda , sitting next to her at the waters edge .
i meant that of course there is nothing that i would like better than a wash in cold water in company with the dear little icebergs .
adele laughed and flicked an infinitesimal drop of water up at her friend .
eda screamed and recoiled with a shudder , but she was laughing .
the water was cold , acknowledged adele , but it quenched her thirst quickly .
she pulled a handkerchief from the bodice of her dress , wetting it in the water and wiping her face .
rafe watched her , not out of admiration , although she did look appealing ensconced in the mossy bower , but with a kind of approval .
it was the same approval that he would have shown to a foot soldier that had behaved well under duress .
adele did not look up but knew his gaze was upon her , she wondered what he was thinking .
she didnt believe he was angry , there was no stiffness about him .
however he was completely still and this , she already knew , was out of character for him .
he was always restless , it was in the line of his body when he sat upon a horse and in the concise , blunt way he stated his thoughts .
what will we do ?
adele asked , standing .
rafe turned and began to walk away , pondering the wisdom of telling her all .
how had it come to this ?
hesitation was not an emotion he had previously experienced in such vast quantities , nor was it a feeling that he was fond of .
he had allowed it free range in the uncertainty of his dealings with adele , but no more .
adele was his bride and her life was also in the balance , therefore he must trust her .
however , she was a female in his sole protection and undertaking an arduous journey .
she did not need the complication of his fears .
from now on he decided that those two thoughts were the only rules that would govern their relationship .
he would tell her the facts , but his suppositions he would keep to himself .
those following us will suppose that we will attempt to journey on to valrek , if we were to try we would be most likely to fail .
we will go to merrodon lord rafes army is there at present .
it seems that we will need their protection as we travel home .
adele noted the familiarity in his use of the word home and was envious of it .
she had never felt that sense of belonging .
the fort had been a place of refuge , a safe harbour until the day of her marriage , but it had never really been her home .
the ladies contained within its walls had been her friends , but there had always been the knowledge that it was not permanent and that one day she would leave them .
nothing had been constant for everything had been part of preparing her for departure , for becoming a lady of valrek .
what is valrek like , finn ?
she questioned softly .
how do you mean ?
adele was thoughtful for a moment before shrugging her shoulders slightly .
well what is the village like , the grounds ?
rafe struggled , trying to decide what she would be most interested in .
his interest lay in valreks defences , in the strength of its fortifications , but adele was unlikely to crave such descriptions .
the village is built upon a hill and is extensive .
tis surrounded by a wall , but there are gardens within and nearby there is a river i used to play by it when i was a boy .
we had apple trees at the fort .
adele braced her hand against his shoulder as he helped her to mount .
in spring they were white with blossom , and when the petals fell it looked like falling snow .
her face broke into an appealing smile .
they were excellent for climbing .
eda once slipped , and it was only the fortunate circumstance of her petticoats becoming caught in the branches that prohibited her from falling .
do you remember , eda ?
you looked vastly amusing hanging upside down with your skirts covering your face !
i had to run and fetch mistress odette to untangle her , and mistress ardith gave us such a scold .
she said that it was not fitting behaviour for a lady to climb trees .
after seeing poor eda caught betwixt heaven and earth with her inexpressibles on display , i must own myself to be in agreement with her .
adele was obliged to pause and lean over the horse with her hands pressed against the bodice of her dress as she laughed .
eda shook her head , however , and regarding her friend indignantly , not amused by the recollection .
rafe considered adele silently from beneath lowered brows .
i fell from an oak tree once .
this admission took adele somewhat by surprise .
she had not thought that rafe was attending or that , if he was , he had merely been suffering her conversation .
really , how old were you ?
she smiled placidly down at him .
twas not last sennight was it , finn ?
rafe grinned and set eda behind her on the horse .
i was eleven and there was a black birds nest in the aforementioned tree .
rafe mounted with an ease that adele regarded enviously and then , touching valliants flanks with his heels , urged the horse forwards .
i would not have fallen but for f rafe stopped abruptly .
how close he had come to giving himself away .
he had been going to say that finan had startled him .
even as he recoiled from the mistake he wished that he had made it .
but what , finn ?
asked adele tentatively .
my friend startled me and i lost my balance .
he could take no pleasure in sharing the anecdote now somehow it too had become a half lie .
i hope you did not hurt yourself .
i broke my arm , he answered curtly .
adele sighed it seemed as though the conversation had finished , and who knew when he would deign to speak to her again .
finan knew he ought to do something even as he stood speechless .
his startled eyes met the similarly startled eyes of the man before him .
he knew he had to think and act quickly , but his mind was blank .
every thought scurried away into the dark recesses of his brain , save for the one that told him he was in deep trouble .
finan !
i thought , at least i was told , that rafe was in here .
did i miss him ?
the young man looked over his shoulder as if he expected lord rafe to spring upon him from behind a bush .
finan opened his mouth but was obliged to close it again and swallow twice before he could reply .
lord rafe was unable to come , lord leofric .
unable to but one of the men told me he was in here .
finan found that after all it was possible to move his limbs , and directed lord leofric of drogand to a chair .
the young scoundrel i dare say he thought it a grand jest to fool you so !
smiled finan with creditable ease .
the surprise he had at first felt when seeing leofric of drogand lessened and he relaxed a little .
lord leofrics perturbed face lightened and he flung himself into the chair with a laugh .
i dare say he did .
how did king ine take rafes delegation of duties ?
king ine is unaware of it , my lord , answered finan .
unaware , eh ?
i should think he is !
grinned lord leofric .
and do not begin to worry that i shall tell , him for i shall not .
he would listen to me anyway nobody ever does !
in this statement lord leofric did not do himself justice .
he was some years younger than lord rafe and finan , and had a levity of manner that some might say was inordinate .
however , he could always be counted upon to act with wisdom no matter how tight the corner .
he did not have rafes talent for diplomacy , having little time for the petty differences of others .
oftentimes he had remarked to rafe that he could not understand how rafe could stand his chosen task .
he had often been heard to say when in a dispute himself , rafe was more likely to come to blows than come to terms .
it seemed to be an endless source of amusement to leofric that rafe had been given the task of intervening diplomatically on king ines behalf .
in short lord rafe would have entrusted leofric with all he possessed , and suffered no qualm as to the result of such an action .
they had known each other from childhood , lord leofrics father having journeyed in lord valreks train to calis in order to defeat lord targhe .
their fathers friendship had strengthened the bond the boys shared , and finan had a great fondness for leofric .
he had not , reflected finan , changed so very much from those long ago days .
leofric was as easy going as ever he had been .
though he was not as handsome as lord rafe was held to be , his friendly face and ready humour made him just as popular .
so , what gives , eh ?
a small matter that king ine wishes to have dealt with , my lord .
let be , finan , protested leofric .
need you fling my title in my face like an insult every other second ?
tis not friendly and makes me feel as though i had vexed you somehow .
finan smiled and sat in the chair across from lord leofric .
what brings you here anyway , fricka ?
the anxiety disappeared from leofrics face and he smiled .
my father thought i might benefit from learning to dance the diplomatic .
leofric grimaced .
i did not want to disappoint him and besides we three always manage to have a lark when we are together .
i did not know then , of course , that rafe had managed to duck out and left all to you .
where is he anyway ?
he is not ill is he ?
leofric straightened as he asked this last , real alarm and concern contorting his features .
no tis naught like that .
finan deliberated if he dared to confess his masters secret to lord leofric .
if rafe had been present finan was certain that he would have no scruple in confiding in him .
yet finan could not .
it was not a matter of trust , for leofric was one of the most trustworthy men he knew .
it was simply that it was not his secret to confide .
tis a private matter that lord rafe wishes to attend to himself .
this statement could not but arouse lord leofrics curiosity .
however , after some time had elapsed and finan had not elaborated , leofric realised that for some reason the subject was taboo .
between two people who were not such good friends this fact might have occasioned some awkwardness , but leofric understood finan better than anyone else .
he did not feel in any way slighted and was therefore not ill at ease .
how long do you stay ?
i know not , replied finan with a shrug .
the dispute between lord merrodon and lord coughly is petty , but they are intent upon forcing a quarrel upon each other and neither will budge .
there has never been trouble between them before , observed leofric .
no , i am sure that even they can not recall the cause for this sudden enmity , but the quarrel is fierce now .
finan stared moodily at the floor .
he had spent a trying day sitting between two angry men who had , with every passing second , become more irate .
not that they hadnt listened to him with respect .
they had believed him to be lord rafe after all , a circumstance that had proved even more detrimental to his peace of mind than he had supposed .
that fact had not stopped them from pursuing a hostile course toward each other .
now , adding to his problems , here was leofric .
their foster brother would no doubt be surprised to find that finan of gournay had become lord rafe of valrek .
after a moment of thought he decided that leofrics natural dislike for anything to do with diplomacy would keep him from discovering the deceit .
what will you do ?
finan shrugged .
i do not know tis not my wish to threaten them with king ines army if they find no solution themselves and desist from this ridiculous posturing , but what else can i do ?
king ine wishes to put an end to any disputes in his realm before they turn into blood feuds .
he remembers calis still .
finans voice was roughened with emotion .
the battle of calis was a memory that would remain etched painfully on his soul with the agony of all he had lost .
we all do , replied leofric softly , his voice conveying sympathetic reassurance .
finan smiled vaguely .
as i recall you were barely crawling !
that is not true !
protested leofric mock indignantly .
i was almost five years old at the time .
finan smiled again and shook his head .
for some time there was silence between the two men as each remembered the horror that had been the battle for calis .
my father said it was the worst battle in which he ever fought , murmured leofric at length .
so many men lost to both sides , such needless bloodshed .
it could have been much worse , replied finan with a raw undertone to his voice .
leofric heard it and compassion spilled over from his eyes .
when lord targhe escaped from calis back to his own lands there were those who wished to pursue him and carry the fight to his lands .
they wished to bring lord targhe to justice for the slaughter on the house of berron .
tis a mercy that king ine had sense enough to see that it would only have led to a lengthy and bloody war with king aethelbald , thank goodness we were spared that !
finan heaved himself from his seat with a growl .
trust lord targhe to have had the forethought to align himself and his lands with king aethelbald before embarking upon his murderous spree !
he roamed angrily with the force of his convictions .
the evil knave !
did you ever hear ought to equal it ?
the cold blooded turncoat !
to secure his own safety before lashing out in vile premeditation .
a more cowardly action i can not conceive , for he knew king ine would not risk the lives of his subjects for the sake of pride .
leofric shook his head , he did not like to think that one mad man could wreak such havoc , havoc that other , better men , paid for with their lives .
he could neither understand nor comprehend that a man could kill innocent women and children .
there was no answer and thinking of such things only made him agitated and uncomfortable .
he was young enough to hope that he was in perfect control of his own life , and yet wise enough to know that his control was only partial .
no one directed the path of their life absolutely .
there were only two courses open to anyone the roads of good and evil .
just the two .
no matter what anyone else said , there was no opaque grey area .
no sitting on the fence .
once a path had been chosen , there was no longer choice left , only the correct and right action on one side , and slavery to the depraved on the other .
god was always there to give lives direction , knowing in his infinite wisdom that which was best for each and every person .
in the case of those like lord targhe , the bible was clear enough they were from their father the devil .
he shivered uncomfortably , as though just discussing the atrocities of the past had brought an oppressive atmosphere of evil into their midst .
tis strange , how far reaching it all has been , how even now its effects are felt .
finans eyes met leofrics with great sadness in their depths .
such things should never be forgotten .
chapter eight rafe watched as adele pushed a wisp of hair back from her cheek and tucked it behind her ear .
she was unaware of his eyes upon her , all her attention was on the robin that hopped about on the frozen earth , pecking at the crumbs she had scattered for it .
she must be tired , she had to be .
eda was even now asleep , curled up in the shelter of a fallen log .
it was eda who had begged for rest , for food , but never once had adele demanded anything .
no word of complaint had passed her lips , yet still he was uneasy .
adele and eda had talk in a desultory manner , but there had been silence between himself and her for too long .
at first he had not noticed , his head was too full of plans and worries for him to spare a thought for conversation .
however , for a long while he had been conscious of the deafening silence between them , and had been made uncomfortable by it .
that was strange in itself because he had been used to long marches from an early age and had never found the quiet awkward before .
certainly he had never voluntarily conversed with any lady not related to him .
he was surprised to find that the hush had become oppressive .
he longed for her to say something , however inconsequential , to show him that she was not upset that he had ignored her for so long .
maybe he should talk to her , but he could think of nothing to say .
the robin , encouraged by adeles stillness and enticed by the crumbs , bravely moved a little nearer .
adele smiled , breaking another piece of rye bread and crumbling it on to the floor .
the robin fluttered away nervously and adele laughed .
tis only crumbs , you silly thing .
the robin cocked its head to one side , regarding her speculatively from one beady eye .
a moment later it hopped a little nearer again .
he was so close that rafe could see with incredible clarity the overlapping feathers on his bright red chest .
he realised that he had never really looked at a robin before , not really looked .
hes a handsome fellow , isnt he ?
rafe was startled to hear adeles warm and friendly voice .
he looked up to find her regarding him from wide , clear eyes .
welcome back to the land of the living you were gone a long time you know .
she was still smiling , there was no reproach in her words .
i was thinking , answered rafe apologetically .
forgive me , i have not been very good company for you .
you are worried , shrugged adele .
i only hope that you have found some solution to the problem that vexes you so .
it is not pleasant to be always troubled .
she scattered a few more crumbs for the waiting robin .
you know , this little fellow reminds me of a passage in the bible .
adele smiled again .
when jesus was teaching upon the mount of olives and he said to take a lesson from the lilies of the field because they neither toil nor spin but even solomon in all his glory was not comparable to one of them .
her serene eyes drifted up to meet his gaze .
tis true for i have never yet seen a fabric that could equal this little robin redbreast .
rafe stared hard into her softly unfocused eyes for some moments .
you are a very unusual girl .
the words slipped from his mouth before he could check them .
adeles gaze met his and , for the first time in the short while he had known her , he saw that it was clouded with uncertainty .
he had meant to compliment her , in his own mind it had been a praising description , although it was true that he never meant to speak the words out loud .
it seemed that although she might well be unusual , she did have one thing in common with the rest of her sex .
that was the belief that in a woman , unusual was not an epithet to aspire to .
she had taken the comment to be little better than a slight and was embarrassed , he could tell .
it was with some surprise that he discovered that he would have given a great deal to unsay those words , or to come into possession of others that would assure her of his meaning .
unfortunately , he had none .
he knew not how to converse with women , although there were many who would have refuted that statement .
rafe was held as a favourite with ladies they thought him charming , attentively courteous , and yet still retaining that elusive air of reckless danger .
rafe had never been easy in their company , it had rendered him silent .
strangely enough this silence had the effect of inspiring admiration in female hearts .
these ladies believed that his lack of words had betrayed a great depth of emotion and sympathy .
gradually he had learnt to suffer the discomfort he felt in their presence stoically .
he had never found their conversation particularly interesting , but then again he had not found it to be fraught with as many difficulties as conversation with adele so often was .
indeed these ladies would have said , had they been asked , that it was possible to converse with lord rafe in complete openness .
rafe was innately polite , and had always listened to their prattle in well concealed boredom .
these ladies had been left with the impression that he was a wonderfully sensitive man , with whom a lady could always enjoy a deep and meaningful conversation , in which the souls of the principals had been poured out with unrestrained and frank honesty .
the fact that lord rafe rarely said a word , but listened in silence while the lady in question divested herself of her opinions on every subject under the sun , completely escaped them .
this left said lady with the impression that rafe were something of a fountain of wisdom .
thankfully there had never been the need to say very much .
it had often been rafes reflection that ladies were quite capable of holding a conversation without the participation of a second party .
in fact they seemed vaguely put out when one interrupted them half way through their monologue .
it was different with adele , she required active participation .
to her conversation was to learn about others , not discussing , at length and in great detail , her own feelings and needs .
he should have found the change refreshing , and in a way he did , but he found it alarming too .
adele would have been greatly surprised to know that rafe had any interest in her at all , and her opinion of his last remark was not well defined .
she was conscious of a sinking feeling of disappointment , tangled up with hurt and embarrassment .
it had never occurred to adele that she might be different to other girls .
she had thought that the whole point of her training at the fort was that she might conform to the idea of a proper wife .
it came as something of a shock to find that this was not so , and she knew a sudden and uncomfortable fear that perhaps she would not please lord rafe , that he too would be disappointed .
are you thirsty , lady adele ?
rafe didnt know what she was thinking , but he misliked the look of perturbed concentration on her face .
she looked up at him , not having heard what he had said but knowing that he had addressed her .
her large , troubled eyes met his and he felt as if the breath were knocked from his body .
suddenly he heard himself speaking .
i did not mean that !
he registered the meaning of his words and began to stammer .
that is tis not that i didnt mean it , tis just i just he broke off , unsure if his tangled explanations were making it worse .
he was relieved to find that the worry had faded from her eyes and that they were filled with the beginnings of mirth .
you are funny when you become nervous .
i am not nervous !
rafe looked vaguely revolted by this description .
it is only that i did not mean it like that .
again he looked sheepish .
all i meant was , that to be different tis good ... that is , lord rafe will be pleased .
he broke off abruptly again .
you do not think lord rafe will mind ?
asked adele blushing .
you think he will like it , finn ?
i yes .
rafe cleared his throat and stood , looking in the direction in which they had come .
the conversation was becoming a little too complicated , too difficult .
he even had a vague suspicion that the discussion should not have been taking place .
as he looked through the trees , his eyes keen and searching , worry entered his face .
again adele saw it , saw his mind change track and begin on lines wholly different to those of a few moments before .
he was gone again , lost to her as a companion .
though his form was still there , standing across from her , his mind was somewhere else , somewhere along the trail that they had traversed , restless , questing , searching for answers , for something that she did not know .
finn ?
rafe turned at the sound of her voice , it was low , gently probing , and for a few seconds he said nothing as he tried to recover his wondering thoughts .
she didnt speak again , did not question him .
rather she sat looking up , her eyes placid , waiting for him to respond .
he had the feeling that she was not requesting confidences , but merely seeking reassurance the comfort of companionship with another person .
you look tired .
so do you , she replied .
in truth i think you must be more weary than i for tis you who must bear the responsibility of our journey .
she stole a look up at him from beneath lowered lashes .
and i think you are plagued by much worry , more even than befits the gravity of our situation .
rafe was taken back , few were the people who could read his thoughts with such a degree of perspicacity , and rare was the person who could hold their curiosity in check .
she didnt question him further , or try to find out from whence these other worries came .
for some reason her understanding unsettled him .
we have yet much ground to cover before we make camp tonight , it is best that we move along now .
adele stood , brushing a few lingering crumbs from the fabric of her cloak .
yes indeed we should , for i fear we are to expect rain before the day is much older .
she tilted her head upwards and gazed up at the darkening sky .
rafe was pretty sure that they were in for a drenching and that the rain would last for some time .
however much he might have with otherwise , there was no option but to continue through it .
adele bent to touch edas shoulder lightly .
eda wake up , we have to move on now .
eda groaned , snuggling her head further down in to the warmth of her cloak .
now , eda !
do you want us all to be caught ?
i think i would prefer capture to this .
she sat up , stretched and then winced .
i feel as though i had been carrying charger instead of the other way round .
and you look as though birds have taken up residence in your hair .
adeles voice was soothing as she dragged her friend to her feet .
by all means let us think of these cheering things .
edas hand flew to her hair and she tried to smooth it into some semblance of order .
i never even thought her fingers worked frantically for a few moments and then she shrugged .
tis an impossible task and who is here to see anyway .
adele smiled turning to rafe .
you will notice , finn , that we are no one .
rafe froze momentarily , hearing his own words ringing in his ears .
those were the very words that he had used when talking to finan the day he had left valrek .
the memory seemed to taunt him he didnt know why , maybe it was just the reminder of his deceit , but suddenly he was uneasy again .
as they began to move through the trees , rafe felt the first few drops of rain fall .
the light shower soon turned into a heavy downpour , soaking his head and shoulders and running down his neck , uncomfortable and icy cold .
rafe shivered and pulled the cloak tight .
they were travelling downward into a valley that he knew well .
the going was tricky on horseback once there was rain on the ground , and he knew that they would have to reach the bottom quickly before the route became dangerously impassable .
valiant slithered and scrambled to regain his footing .
rafe heard eda scream as , for a few dangerous moments , the slippery ground gave way beneath the horse .
i think it would be best if we dismount .
rafe eased from his saddle and turned to eda and adele , his hand held out .
and i thought our day could not improve , muttered eda , sliding from chargers back .
yet now we have the added pleasure of trawling through the mud .
adele cast a quick glance at rafe .
she was pretty sure that edas quips were beginning to irritate him .
eda , enough .
her voice was quiet but as eda turned to argue , she met a look of reproof that silenced her .
they plodded on , rafe had taken the reins of both horses and did not dare to look behind lest he meet adeles eyes and find them filled with misery and tearfulness .
marching in the rain was one of the most disheartening and demoralizing experiences he had ever come across .
he remembered back to mistress ardiths warnings , that adele was not used to anything rough , that she could not be expected to endure any hardship .
he even seemed to recall something about adele being delicate great goodness , that didnt mean that she was liable to be taken ill did it ?
rafe could feel the blood drain from his face .
of all the things that he did not need an ill female ranked close to the top of his list .
what would he do if she were to become unwell ?
it was entirely possible that she would catch a chill in these conditions , then what would he do ?
a rich giggle interrupted his frenzied thoughts , and he turned to adele to see merry eyes laughing up at him .
what is it ?
nothing , tis just , adele broke off with a yelp as she slipped on the mud and began to giggle again .
i can not seem to stop !
even as she spoke she made a grab for the tree nearest to her , falling against it and wrapping both arms around its narrow trunk .
adele sagged against it , laughing helplessly .
rafe found himself grinning , and held out a hand toward her .
i shall steady you .
the words had not left his mouth before he found himself fighting for his balance , and he heard adele laughing ever harder .
or take me down with you !
rafes hand was still held out toward her so she released the tree , moving in his direction slowly .
he was still some way out of her reach when she gave a yell and slithered straight into his arms .
the force of her cannoning into him almost knocked rafe off his feet , and they swayed dangerously for some seconds .
adele was still laughing , clinging to him weakly , her whole form trembling with amusement .
rafe released the tight hold he had upon her , unwinding his arms and transferring his grip to her shoulders .
are you alright ?
so far !
she gasped .
i can not think how you managed to stay upright .
rafe could have told her that a battle field soon turned to mud beneath a soldiers feet , and that a warrior valued his balance , knowing that if he fell it were unlikely he would rise again .
still , this rather grim statement would have brought her merriment to an abrupt end .
he hadnt realised until then just how morose he had become in some respects .
you are wet through , rafe noted .
adele smiled up at him , laughing again .
tis raining , had you not noticed ?
rafe realised the inanity of his statement and began to chuckle .
taking her icy cold hand in his , he turned and they began to walk again .
wait , wait !
adele pulled against him , a gentle pressure that caused him to pause .
she turned to eda , holding out her other hand .
come eda , then we may all be steady .
eda slithered toward them and latched onto adele firmly .
thank you .
eda looked pointedly at rafe .
tis nice to know that someone cares if i break my neck or not .
to tell the truth i had forgotten all about you , answered rafe .
i guessed that to be the case , replied eda coolly .
rafe sent her a scornful look .
do you really believe that either of you women have been absent from my thoughts for one second since i took you in to my care ?
eda looked surprised and made to answer , but adele pinched her fingers , stopping her from speaking .
she didnt know why eda couldnt see that finn had not expected an answer , did not want an answer .
why couldnt she see that he did not appreciate her questioning his actions .
adele frowned , trying to think of some way to shatter the awkward silence .
finn , why is lord rafes army at adele broke off and looked up at him questioningly .
merrodon , tis to the east of the kingdom .
oh yes , i could not perfectly recall the name .
adele blew a lock of hair back from her face .
why is lord rafe there ?
who told you lord rafe was at merrodon ?
he asked , his voice taking on an edge of sternness .
why , you did .
rafe searched feverishly through his mind to see if this was so , and remembered that he had indeed implied that lord rafe was at merrodon .
he closed his eyes .
what was he going to do ?
he could hardly tell her that lord rafe was not after all at merrodon .
she would be confused , and besides finan was at merrodon and posing as him .
it was very unlikely that she would not somehow find out about that when they arrived great goodness !
finan at that moment pretending to be lord rafe !
and adele on her way with the man she thought to be finan to merrodon !
what an awful mess !
if ever he managed to extricate himself from this horrendous tangle , he would never seek to mislead anyone ever again .
what was he going to do ?
before him he could see great and complicated situations arising from his having to keep adele from the truth , as well as keeping finans pretended identity a secret from her , at least until he had had a chance to explain it all to her after they had arrived .
perhaps it would be best if she did not meet finan at all .
he could not be lord rafe , and it was impossible for him to be finan .
that would mean the assuming of yet another name , and rafe could hardly see that that would help the situation .
the thought of just what was to come about from these many and complicated little deceptions , brought him out in a cold sweat .
finn ?
are you alright ?
adeles voice was filled with concern .
youve become so pale , you are not ill are you ?
rafe shook his head as if doing so would clear his mind .
i am well .
adele looked a little worried , but she did not question him further on the matter .
they walked on in silence and after a few moments she began to whistle a merry tune under her breath .
rafe listened to the bright sound in amusement .
who taught you to whistle ?
randwulf did , answered adele blithely , only to blush faintly at the look that entered rafes eyes .
he noticed her colour rise and connected it , not with his reaction to her confidence , but to the name she had mentioned .
he wasnt sure how he felt about this randwulf , all he knew was that the added complication filled him with uneasiness .
at first he had felt anger he had become used to thinking himself the only man that adele knew , and had been sorry to find that this was not actually so .
now he was beginning to worry , for just what had randwulfs relationship with adele been ?
friend ?
confidant ?
or more than that ?
was it possible that they had been attached in some way ?
he looked back at adele .
she bore no signs of being a star crossed lover .
then again did he really know what a person in that unfortunate state looked like ?
rafe confessed to himself that he had no knowledge or experience of that sort of love the sort between a man and a maid .
for a certainty he had on occasion taken pleasure in watching pretty women .
he had enjoyed seeing their smiles and , so long as they did not expect him to talk to them , he enjoyed their company .
however , he had never felt the least wish to commit any folly .
he did not desire to whisper sweet and , to his way of thinking , ridiculous nothings in their ears , or steal highly inappropriate kisses from them which would only lead to unpleasant and uncomfortable consequences to himself .
nor had he ever viewed one woman above another .
at least , he might have had a vague notion that such and such was prettier than so and so .
however , he had never actually placed them , their personalities , above each other .
he had never known enough of them to do that , and had never cared enough to try to know them better .
quite apart from the natural antipathy he felt towards such a course , he had always known that there would have been little point .
for just as surely as adele had been bound to him with a promise , he had bound himself to her in faithfulness with a promise that he would break for no man or woman .
chapter nine rand looked across the rain slashed valley .
somewhere down there was a river , but the carpet of trees made it invisible even from this height up on the rise .
they would be getting terribly wet under the leafless boughs .
he looked up to the sky the clouds were heavy , showing no sign that the rain would abate anytime soon .
there was little shelter to be had so no doubt they would pass an uncomfortable night .
they do not slow him up much , master .
a smile played about lord targhes mouth at the mans observation .
they do not , but it makes little matter .
we shall be upon them soon enough , bron .
bron shifted on his mount .
you said that yesterday , master rand .
his eyes slid away from his lords stare and became engrossed in the horizon .
i am not so sure .
he is a cunning one , slippery as an eel too , he ought never to have been able to hold off all those men .
yet somehow he did , and now he is leading the women by a way he knows our horses can not pass .
i would take naught for granted .
tis fortunate then that i never do , replied lord targhe with a shrug of irritation .
he was enjoying pitting his wits against the warrior who had collected lady adele .
what he liked somewhat less was the way the unknown warrior had engendered such admiration in his men .
he felt a strange need to compete suddenly for the hearts of his own soldiers .
what do you intend to do , lord rand ?
rand glanced down the slippery and dangerous slope before him , made treacherous almost to the point of impassability by the pouring rain .
for a second he knew the impulse to throw caution to the wind and make the descent anyway .
yet he knew he could not risk his men in so fool hardy a gesture .
we will take the longer route , bron .
t'will cost us the best part of a day , master .
rand pulled on the reins and wheeled his horse about .
better than your life , bron , would you not agree ?
bron recognised his masters tone , and knew that he had better go about his masters order without question or hesitation .
the track that lord rand had chosen to take was of a much shallower gradient .
it curved around the walls of the valley , hardly more than a narrow shelf of rock .
there was little room and the horses had to traverse its length in single file .
it was unfortunate that the wind was blowing the rain against them , flinging gusts of ice cold droplets over them with the force of hailstones .
rand pulled his cloak around him more securely , seeking to eliminate the cause of the draught that had slipped its cold fingers through his covering .
though unpleasant for the moment , he could see the end in sight .
the finish hastened toward him with the promise of his release .
lord rafe ?
lord rafe !
the voice was insistent but finan did not hear it .
he felt a sharp tug on his tunic and turned absently .
what , what is it ?
why do you ?
finan caught his breath and rolled exasperated eyes toward the page .
lord merrodon .
you might have warned me , druce !
forgive me , lord rafe , i meant not to intrude .
lord merrodons voice was apologetic .
i wished only for a private word without lord coughlys presence .
finan cast about him for a way to forestall what he felt could only be a tirade against lord coughlys character .
he was heartily tired of both men and had no desire to spend any more time than was absolutely necessary with either of them .
druce giggled , placing both hands over his mouth as if to contain the sound , and lord merrodon glanced at the boy sharply .
lord merrodon , you must know the irregularity of such a request , i could not lord merrodon waved aside so small a consideration .
come , lord rafe , i am sure that you wish also to settle this situation as much as i do .
lord merrodon smiled .
and please , i would be honoured if you would call me tellan .
finan was no fool , he knew how it felt to be manipulated , and his hesitation disappeared to be replaced by iron hard cynicism .
very well , lord tellan , will you not sit down ?
lord merrodon seated himself with a brief word of thanks .
druce , a measure of spiced wine for his lordship .
the young page smiled cheekily and bowed .
lord tellen watched his departure with surprised disapproval .
a rather forward child , he seems not to know his place .
your pardon , my lord ?
asked finan , his large frame stiffening slightly .
lord merrodon did not notice the sign of irritation on finans part and continued on in blithe ignorance .
it seems to me that the boy could do with a sound thrashing for his insolence .
if you do not start young they become unmanageable .
lord merrodon broke off , noticing belatedly the unimpressed cast to finans face , and experiencing an unsettling feeling in his stomach .
druce is lord rafes most favoured page , stated finan heavily .
finan did not notice the slip , and in his consternation lord merrodon did not regard it .
a metallic chink heralded the arrival of druce as he returned with refreshment .
he was walking slowly , his eyes fixed in great concentration upon the two goblets held on the platter .
finan saw the steam that rose from them , and could smell on the air a spicy , sweet aroma .
just the fragrance alone made him feel warmer .
druce placed the platter on the table and sighed with relief , beaming up at finan and waiting for the approval of a task so well accomplished .
well done , druce , smiled finan .
now you may leave us .
druce gave a formal bow and left the room .
now , my lord , what is it that you wished to discuss with me ?
lord merrodon looked blankly up at finan , confused by the course that the interview was taking .
i wish to see you without lord coughly .
yes , i know you have already said that .
lord merrodon strove to gather his wits together under finans coldly detached stare .
i thought that well surely it must have been obvious to my lord that coughly is being unreasonable ?
you must have noticed all i have noticed is a marked tendency on both sides to be unreasonable and difficult , cut in finan bluntly .
lord merrodons eyes showed an alarming tendency to goggle from their sockets .
king ine may have appointed you to intercede in this affair , but ill take no insolence from you !
very well , but i demand the same in return , answered finan with unruffled calm .
you will henceforth keep your opinions on my servants , my methods , and the manner in which i have chosen to handle this matter to yourself .
both men stared at each other , lord merrodon in open hostility and finan with habitual composure .
after several moments finan saw the realisation that arguing with the man who had been sent to decide your fate was not the cleverest of ideas , enter lord merrodons eyes .
with a struggle that could have been described as epic , lord merrodon swallowed a good deal of his pride and smiled smoothly .
i am so glad we have managed to come to an understanding .
lord merrodon seated himself back in his chair .
now we might find a way to come to terms .
finan recognised the squeeze in lord merrodons words and took up his goblet , savouring a sweet and spicy mouthful before answering .
whatever terms we come to will be made in lord coughlys presence .
as he is not present , all i can offer you is hospitality .
lord rafe !
druce burst in to the room , out of breath and his chubby cheeks aglow .
what is it ?
finan answered , not missing his queue this time .
but poor druce was completely out of breath and all he could do was sag against a chair gasping for breath and trying to convey his message by facial contortions .
what ails the boy , is he ill ?
asked lord merrodon , drawing back a little .
as anyone might see he is merely out of breath , answered finan coldly , upon which druce decided to indulge in a violent coughing fit .
lord rafe !
gasped druce between shuddering breaths as his eyes streamed .
yes , yes what is it ?
asked finan , calmly bending to the childs height and taking a strong grip on his shoulders .
lord breathe , druce .
druce shook his head and lifted a trembling hand toward the tent flap .
lord leofric !
it took several seconds for the full meaning of his words to sink in .
great goodness , sighed finan , weary irritation creeping into his voice .
you must leave lord merrodon .
lord merrodon looked both shocked and affronted , as though he could not quite believe that finan was really talking to him .
get out !
demanded finan .
can you not see that if lord coughly were to hear that you had been here , he would suppose , and quite rightly , that you had been trying to make terms of your own ?
now be gone before lord leofric arrives , and do not dare to bring your carcass into my camp again unless first you have received an invitation !
lord merrodons mouth fell open in surprise and he began to splutter incoherently .
finan took no notice but turned again to the small page .
druce , lead lord merrodon out of the camp , take the opposite way to the one lord leofric is taking .
yes , master .
druce smiled angelically before hurrying away , however lord merrodon lingered belligerently .
i said out !
repeated finan heavily .
lord merrodon jumped and , with an angry glance over his shoulder , disappeared through the tent flap .
finan lowered himself into his chair , sinking his head into his hands .
so much for diplomacy .
hello , finan lad .
was that lord merrodon i just saw leaving ?
asked leofric cheerfully as he entered the tent a few moments later .
i would have extended my greetings but he was skulking betwixt the tents !
leofric cast himself in to one of the chairs , one leg draped over the arm .
you do not think he is perhaps a little mad do you ?
tis not safe to have crazies on the loose , you never know but you might wake up dead !
i do not think you would .
finan still cradled his head in his hands , he did not feel that he had the strength to lift it .
do not think i would what ?
wake up , answered finan wearily .
leofric laughed .
no , i suppose i would not .
he looked his friend over .
say finan , are you alright ?
finan smiled slightly .
fricka , if only you knew !
he answered shaking his head , before catching sight of a movement by the tent opening .
back already , druce ?
yes my ... finan frowned , shooting a glance toward lord leofric .
that is , i did as you told me to , master finan .
i see .
finan allowed his gaze to travel over the youth slowly .
it was a regard that most full grown men in rafes army would have quailed before , yet the imp before him seemed unperturbed by the scrutiny .
perhaps you would care to explain the excessive amount of mud you have about your person , druce ?
druces face took on a saintly expression of innocence .
master finan ?
what did you do to him , druce ?
asked finan by no means taken in .
druces face creased into a smile and he shifted his weight from one foot to the other , swaying slightly .
you said i was to take him away so that he was sure not to meet up with lord leofric .
he turned to leofric with a cherubic smile and bowed .
hello , lord leofric .
hello , druce .
leofric was trying to contain his laughter .
i am still listening , druce , reminded finan .
well , i thought that lord leofric would never enter the camp by the swampy stretch of land to the west so i took lord merrodon by that way !
finished druce triumphantly .
finan was silent for some time , a serious frown on his face .
you know , beneath that childish veneer hides the soul of a fiend .
if ever you grow to manhood , druce , by no means something that should be taken for granted , i believe your no doubt illustrious career will end at the length of a rope !
but , master finan , he told you to beat me , i heard him !
well i have not done so have i ?
asked finan reasonably .
no , but he was not to know that and it were unhandsome of him to suggest it !
replied druce indignantly .
and there he has you , finan !
laughed leofric .
finan cast leofric a speaking look and laid a hand on druces shoulder .
be away with you cretin , go and tidy yourself so that you resemble a person and not a scarecrow , and do not venture into this tent again in so deplorable a state .
finan arrested the childs movements as he made to leave .
and if ever i catch you playing such a trick again i will beat you , do i make myself clear ?
he waited until a shamefaced druce had assured him of his comprehension .
now go .
with a gentle push finan propelled the boy towards the tent flap and watched as he trudged away , despondency in every movement .
and as for you , finan rounded on leofric , much help you are , fricka !
leofric deposited himself back into the chair chuckling .
the truth of it is i rather admire his cheek !
i wonder if you would admire it so much were it directed at you , fricka .
leofric grinned up at him .
but it never will be the boy likes me !
yes , well as we have seen he has deplorable taste .
leofric shook his head but declined to make any answer to the taunt .
what was he doing here anyway ?
come , come , fricka where else would druce be but with the camp ?
asked finan pretending ignorance .
as well you know i was referring to lord merrodon , what did he want ?
finans face darkened slightly .
merely to see if it would not be easier for the two of us to come to terms , rather than the three of us .
the old reprobate !
you know , you become acquainted with the worst sort of knaves when you enter into diplomacy , remarked leofric .
i believe i shall tell my father so , it might encourage him to give me a little peace .
he thinks me unsteady as it is the idea that a diplomatic career would subject me to the influence of depravity should scotch the thing nicely !
you have no taste for it , fricka ?
asked finan knowingly .
leofric shrugged his shoulders .
i lack sufficient ambition to please my father , not that it matters .
father has ambition enough for us both !
finans brow darkened on hearing this and his next words were rather brusque .
i have never noticed that you lack a thing .
king ine himself holds you to be most useful , surely your father must know that ?
he does , tis only leofrics finger traced a groove in the wood of the chair .
he wishes i were more like rafe .
you know the way king ine leans upon him , the same way that he leaned upon lord brogan .
everyone knows that king ine will do nothing without first discussing the matter with lord brogan , and no one but rafe will do to be his emissary since lord brogan retired from service .
yet rafe never stirs anywhere without you to support him , leofric .
leofrics smile was twisted as he answered .
yes i am always in his train .
he shook his head .
but for my father that is not enough .
he wishes for me to be at the head , where as i am content to follow .
finan felt a dull anger creep over him .
he had watched lord drogands crushing aspirations thrust upon his son from an early age , a weight he had been made to carry all his life .
lord drogand had demanded that leofric compete with rafe no matter that rafe was five years older .
lord brogan had tried to shield the boy from situations in which competition could be suggested , but there had only ever been so much he could do .
competing with one another in friendly rivalry was one thing .
competing to secure parental approval was another , and after his fourteenth year rafe had flatly refused to do so .
it had been a sour experience for all three of them , and to this day rafe did not take part in any competition , having developed a deep rooted disgust for rivalry of that sort .
as for leofric , some might have been crushed by the weight of parental disappointment , but not he .
he had laughed all off , played the fool , and refused to allow himself to be compared to anyone .
he had become the cheerful , ever effervescent fricka who was always up for a lark .
he had more friends than he knew what to do with , and the ladies of the court found him to be the most amusing of companions .
through all he had been loyal to rafe and finan , never once blaming them for being viewed as superior by his father .
the foolish thing in it all was that leofric was an excellent leader and tactician .
his men would have walked over hot coals at his command , and there was no army in the kingdom better trained than the house of drogands .
yet for all that he was satisfied to travel under rafes command , leofric did not envy him success or demand glory for himself .
it was not his way for he needed neither to bolster his ego .
finan had often admired the precision of his marksmanship only for leofric to laugh and say that it was not something he could take credit for because it was a gift he was born with , not one he had learnt .
finan knew however that while the gift of speed , of a steady hand , and of clear sight was certainly a talent that had been gifted to him at birth , it was the endless hours of practice that made his aim so sure .
cheer up , finan , it may never happen !
finan found himself called back to the present by leofrics cheerful voice .
he managed to force a rather sad smile .
on the contrary , fricka it already has .
chapter ten rafe stopped and looked out into the gathering darkness .
it was still raining but not as hard as it had been , the water fell from the skies in a swirling mist about them .
he had seen the rock mass from the tree he had climbed an hour or so ago and had decided that it was best that they head towards the possible shelter it afforded .
now he could see that it was little more than a curve in the rock with an overhang about four feet from the ground .
rafe was grateful for it .
he dismounted , making his way to charger and the two weary figures that swayed unsteadily on his back .
lady adele ?
she looked down , her tired eyes surrounded by a dark smudge of fatigue .
we shall camp here tonight .
his voice was gentle , but as he looked back at the semi cave he felt his heart begin to sink .
this was all very well for him it was dry enough and he had slept in worse places and in worse conditions before .
however , adele should not have been subjected to such discomfort it was not what she or eda were used to .
great goodness !
adeles voice sounded weary but surprised .
how clever of you to have found us somewhere dry to spend the night !
her drowsy eyes looked into his and in their depths he could see genuine admiration .
rafe was surprised by a wish to hold her close in an appreciative bear hug .
it was an impulse that shook him to the very centre of his being .
finn ?
is something amiss ?
rafe forced a shake of his head .
you should get out of the rain .
he helped her to dismount and she moved into the shelter under the out crop of rock , eda close behind her .
clever ?
whispered eda , her voice incredulous .
because you have always longed to sleep in a cave , have you not ?
eda , be silent , whispered back adele .
can you not see that he is doing his best for us ?
this is his best ?
enough !
for the first time eda saw fiery sparks of anger spill from adeles eyes .
did it not occur to you that he is just as tired as we are ?
that he is as cold and as hungry , but whereas we have him to look after us and see we are comfortable , he has no one ?
so please , eda , please no more tonight .
rafe dragged together some wood for the fire , it was very wet but he had found a few dry twigs beneath the shelter that would start the flames off .
there would be no room for the wood beneath the out crop , indeed once rafe had settled himself next to adele and eda there was little room for anything bar the fire before them that would be shielded from the rain by the jutting rock .
rafe dried his hands as best he could , and set about coaxing a flame to the dry twigs .
with great patience he fed the blaze with the damp wood .
it spluttered and spat , sending clouds of dark smoke spiralling upward to hit the rock above and escape into the cold air .
rafe sat back from the task , reclining against the rock next to adele .
are you both alright ?
fine , assured eda , looking away .
adele nodded but rafe could see her trembling with cold .
he leaned across , taking her hand that was furthest from him in his own .
her fingers were icy and still damp .
you shall soon warm up again , he told her with a reassuring smile as he rubbed her hand between his own , trying to generate the heat of friction .
although i realise that at this point tis hard to believe , or remember what being warm felt like .
adele laughed nervously , not looking up as rafe took her other hand and held both between his .
are you feeling any warmer ?
a little .
still adele did not look up , and rafe could see even though her head was bent that she blushed .
they were sitting rather close , rafe reflected .
she was sandwiched between him and eda snugly , but the shelter was small and it could not be helped .
he looked out into the rain , wondering if any of them would sleep tonight .
eda probably would , he thought with a smile , she seemed capable of sleeping anywhere .
adele could feel her cheeks glowing hot and was vexed with herself , the situation could not be helped so it was ridiculous to be made uncomfortable by it .
still , it was a very strange experience .
she could feel the gentle and accidental pressure of rafe against her , a circumstance that she could not but be acutely conscious of .
he had managed somehow to bring warmth to her fingers , a luxury that she had not experienced since leaving the fort , and he was trying so very hard to put her at ease .
mistress ardith said you knew no one beyond the gates of the fort , lady adele .
as he spoke she could feel his breath stirring her hair .
so i do not precisely understand how you know this randolph .
randwulf , corrected adele absently , trying to still the chattering of her teeth .
she did not wish to talk of this , especially not now when she had spoken sharply to eda .
to remind her friend of randwulf when she was already feeling low would be cruel .
he used to climb over the fort wall .
rafe felt a little easier at this circumstance .
so he was one of the boys from the village then ?
it was not really a question but a statement .
he was not from the village , but from one of the big houses , eda answered , her voice subdued .
he told you so ?
no , there was no need he had a page that followed him wherever he went .
and you met the page too , i suppose ?
well , yes , answered adele guiltily .
i know we ought not but there was little we could do to stop them climbing over the wall if they so chose , was there ?
so what did you do ?
well we played with them .
rafe was silent and irritably so .
no doubt they had played with the very toys that he himself had provided !
for some reason this last seemed monstrously unfair .
suddenly the significance of her remark dawned upon him .
played ?
he questioned .
how long ago did you meet him ?
adeles brow creased in thought .
i was seven ?
yes , that would be about right , she mused aloud .
and when did you see him last ?
a month ago , she answered .
but he was due to visit us again a few days from now .
you mean he came quite often to visit you , and without mistress ardiths knowledge ?
asked rafe keeping his tone carefully natural .
adele shot an anxious glance at eda .
yes , often .
it was nice to have his visits to look forward to .
adele smiled faintly , relaxing a little as she gazed dreamily into the fire .
he taught me to use the bow and the sword , and how to use a persons strength against them in a struggle .
adele turned eyes that sparkled with excitement toward him .
more than that he was always there for me , for us , as someone to talk to and confide in .
she caught herself , suddenly looking guilty .
rafe nodded , trying to ignore the bitter feeling that welled up within him .
it must have been hard to come to terms with your betrothal to lord rafe .
the words almost choked him to say , but still he forced them out .
anyone must see that the situation is difficult .
for a moment adele was completely still , and then she turned from her contemplation of the fire and fixed her steady eyes on his .
is that how lord rafe feels ?
she asked quietly .
that our betrothal is difficult ?
rafe had no answer to her question , and after a moments silence adele shrugged a shoulder and , to rafes great relief , turned her gaze away from him .
of course for lord rafe it must have been wearisome , he is some years older than i .
it must have been trying to have been bound to someone so young , to have had to wait .
i dare say if it had not been for our betrothal he might have been married long ago and would even now have children .
rafe was horrified by this suggestion .
the way she talked one might suppose he was a veritable grey beard who could hardly be expected to last much longer !
i never thought before , continued adele carefully , but lord rafe may have wished to marry elsewhere , and could not because of me .
there was silence after her statement , rafe felt his tongue thick and unwieldy in his mouth .
maybe lord rafe saw your existence as a blessing , he countered at last .
perhaps the fact that he was already betrothed to you gave him a feeling of freedom , for he could hardly have been expected to form an alliance with another when promised to you .
adele blinked slowly two or three times , her gaze never wavering from his face .
maybe but did he ?
she asked , and then held her hand up before her .
no .
do not answer that question i should never have asked it .
your pardon , finn , i did not mean to make you uncomfortable i fear i am very tiresome tonight .
rafe struggled within himself .
he had never wished to marry another , and he had been pleased to use her as a shield against the political alliances formed by marriage .
he wished very much that he could tell her that , but knew he could not .
such an admission would give adele a belief that he had been content , even pleased , with their betrothal , and the truth was that he had never been pleased with it .
he could not explain to her his feelings on the matter , and it would have been dishonest of him to gain her good opinion by telling her only half of the story , that half that chanced to portray the situation in a good light .
randwulf always says never to ask a question if you are not sure that you can accept the answer .
adeles smile was a little forced .
i find that maxim has always kept me from disappointment .
rafe kicked at a smouldering ember .
it does seem to be a course of wisdom .
yes , answered adele .
randwulf is wise i think .
rafe vouchsafed no answer , but adele heard eda take a shuddering breath and cursed herself for her insensitivity .
how could she have allowed herself to be drawn into a conversation on randwulf when she knew the effect it would have on her friend ?
yet it was a topic that seemed to be of great interest to finan , and she did not precisely see how she could turn his mind from the subject .
for a moment she groped around in her thoughts for a way to turn his attention elsewhere .
do you have any brothers or sisters , finn ?
rafe groaned within himself .
how was he to answer ?
he had two sisters , yet finan had none , only brothers , so which truth did he tell her ?
sisters , two of them .
there was no point in trying to convince himself that if he told her anything else he wouldnt really be lying .
what are their names ?
esme and aisly .
are they older or younger than you ?
rafe sighed this was obviously a topic she was determined to pursue .
younger esme is twenty and aisly is your age , both are unmarried , rafe paused .
although esme was once betrothed and aisly ... almost .
he averted his face , pained by the recollection and wishing that the memories would recede .
really , to whom ?
rafe was very still , and when he spoke the words were forced from between bloodless lips .
rand son to lord targhe .
adeles eyes were generally wide , but at this confidence they almost doubled in size .
even eda , who seemed to have entered a catatonic state on the other side of the cave , lurched upright .
was it before ?
asked adele quietly .
yes , it was before the attack on calis , answered rafe .
tis why my father did not seek to marry them elsewhere .
he had engaged in extended negotiations over the marriage contract , yet he never once suspected what lord targhe was capable of .
i see .
rafe was lost in thought again , a heavy frown creasing his brow that lent a bitter cast to his face .
how many had the consequences of calis been ?
if lord targhe had not attacked calis , adele would have grown to adulthood within the loving care of her family .
aisly would have married evoric of gournay , esme would have married rand of targhe , and he himself would have been free of the obligation of marrying adele , though in truth he no longer felt her to be such an obligation .
if it had not been for lord brogans experience with esmes betrothal , he would have felt no need to betroth adele to rafe .
the idea that he could have been sending the poor child to he knew not what , had stopped lord brogan from entrusting her to anyone else .
he had not been comfortable in handing her over to his good friend lord drogand , who had offered to make her bride to his son leofric .
it had made sense , her lands marched along side those of the house of drogand , but it had been too soon , too close to the dreadful mistake he had almost made , and he had found he could not do it .
have you , or indeed are you married , finn ?
no .
you could not tell , adele ?
asked eda dryly .
adele ignored her .
you mean you never even came close ?
rafe fought within himself to find a suitable answer for this question .
i was once betrothed .
adele wondered if he had loved the lady very much , for he would no longer meet her eyes .
what happened ?
did she ?
adele broke off not knowing how to form the question .
she did not die , no .
she did not wish to marry you , eh ?
eda asked .
rafe blinked at this suggestion .
i do not recall asking her .
then , adele considered thoughtfully , did you not wish to marry her ?
how was he to answer that question ?
for endless seconds he remained silent until he felt adeles soft hand cover his own .
i am sorry i did not mean to bring to mind something that pains you .
it does not pain me .
oh , adele removed her hand flustered .
poor finn you did not like her very much at all , did you ?
to adeles amazement rafe began to laugh , his whole form shaking .
how did you reach that conclusion ?
what other conclusion could there be ?
objected adele .
if she saw naught disagreeable in marrying you , you must have disliked her heartily to have broken a betrothal and to have nothing more to say of her other than you never asked her if she had found the idea of marrying you pleasing !
i am sure you must be right , he grinned .
i am , i must be !
such assurance !
admonished rafe .
you will find , my lady , that even though you are sure and feel you must be correct about something , there is often a circumstance of which you know nothing that changes matters completely .
i see .
adele was thoughtful for some time .
i would you might tell it to me , finn .
rafes amusement disappeared abruptly .
great goodness , tell her that she was the lady they were talking of ?
tell her all ?
it is difficult for me to talk of it , my lady .
i know that it must be , but surely a problem shared is a problem halved ?
problem ?
rafe had a sudden suspicion that they were no longer talking of the same thing .
of what problem do you speak ?
it was adeles turn to look surprised .
but it was you who spoke of it !
she answered .
i should have said nothing but it seemed to me that you wished to talk of your worry .
what worry ?
who is worried ?
asked eda with a shrug .
adele bent a frown on her friend .
be silent , you merely confuse things more .
she turned back to rafe , large eyes looking up into his with a lost expression in their depths .
where was i ?
confused .
we both were .
adele chuckled .
it seems we are no further forward then .
so it would seem we were talking of worry .
adeles brow cleared .
so we were !
i thought that you wished to talk of the worry that has plagued you since our camp was attacked .
the one that is more than just the thought that someone followed us .
adele paused .
was that not what you were speaking of , finn ?
rafe was silent , staring in to the flames and trying to decide if he should confide .
finn ?
you are right , there is something amiss , he began , looking out in to the darkness that had fallen .
you remember my telling you that i heard horses ?
adele nodded .
that is what perplexes me .
why ?
can you not see ?
they never gave chase to us .
if they had we must surely have fallen into their hand , but they never did .
rafe shrugged .
nor is that an end to the matter , for they follow us still .
they do not ride hard and have rarely been less than a few hours behind us .
why ?
why do they follow us if they mean us no harm ?
if they do wish to attack us , why do they not make their move ?
and who the he ?
rafe halted abruptly , recalling adele and edas presence .
and who are they ?
who indeed ?
eda looked thoughtful .
do you truly have no idea , or are you concealing your fear inspiring suspicions from us ?
i have no idea , returned rafe shortly .
he did not like to admit this ignorance as it was a lack of knowledge he found it hard to forgive himself for .
he should know , or at the very least have enough facts to make an educated guess .
yet he had nothing , just the strange behaviour that their pursuers were exhibiting .
it gave him no clue at all to either their identity or their intentions .
he became aware suddenly that adele was shivering and cursed himself .
i should not have bothered you with the matter , now you are worried over it .
adele looked bemusedly up at rafe , wondering at the remorse in his voice .
because i tremble you mean ?
she shook her head .
do not regard it tis only that i am still a little cold .
adele fixed him with clear , trusting eyes .
i know that you will protect us and that we have nothing to fear .
rafe glanced down at both of the ladies shivering in the inadequate shelter of the cave .
bless adele and the day on which she had been born !
how could she show such faith in him when he had let them down so terribly ?
he hadnt even been able to keep them warm .
he looked down at the two women shivering in the inadequate shelter .
it was of course the only sensible and practical solution , but he doubted they would receive the suggestion he was about to make with anything but indignation .
you know , it really would be best if rafe faltered as adeles trusting gaze turned sleepily upon him .
that is , we would all be much warmer if if we shared our heat .
rafe swallowed uncomfortably as edas head snapped round to pin him with an outraged and indignant glare .
absolute silence greeted this statement , and rafe began to feel rather ill used .
after all , he was thinking of their comfort yet they were looking at him as though he had suggested something in questionable taste .
at least , that was not precisely true , for adeles expression was of innocent bewilderment .
share our heat ?
a frown creased her brow .
how ?
how ?
great goodness she wanted him to explain ?
suddenly the suggestion he had made seemed almost he struggled to find the right word almost indecent !
rafe felt his cheeks grow warm , and shifted his gaze from hers .
looking out into the darkness he wished that whoever it was that followed them would strike and end his discomfort .
it was only the sound of adele breaking into unrestrained laughter that brought his gaze back .
forgive me , finn .
her voice shook a little with lingering mirth , but there was true penitence in her face .
that was very unkind of me but but i just could not help myself .
she spread out her palms in an appealing gesture that begged him to see the funny side .
you looked so very discomfited , so wholly unlike the knave you supposed we would think you .
and you looked so horrified when you thought you would have to explain .
rafe was not sure he enjoyed being teased , but it was very hard to be angry with adele when she was shaking with irresistible laughter .
i should think i might have looked horrified i am not sure i am old enough to participate in such a discussion .
adele giggled again , but it was a nervous sound this time .
her eyes looked awkwardly into his , as though she were trying to steel herself for something .
it would be for the best , would it not , finn ?
adele , you can not possibly be thinking what other choice do we have , eda ?
adele hunched a shoulder defensively .
it it is not so very bad and and lord rafe would understand that there was no other option , would he not , finn ?
her eyes pleaded with him to ease her fears away .
it would not be wrong ?
rafe felt acutely uncomfortable in the face of her apprehension and edas scandalised recoiling .
lord rafe would understand perfectly , have no fear or worry that you commit any offence .
adele nodded slowly , as though trying to convince herself that what he said was true .
she turned to meet edas disapproving look .
eda it there is no other way to keep warm .
rafe saw the appeal in adeles voice smote eda , and watched the other womans rigid disapproval dissolve .
i suppose it is better that we be comfortable together than sleepless apart , she replied at last .
it was sometime later , after a great deal of awkwardness , that they were settled .
rafe had spread his cloak wide that both ladies might recline upon it .
eda had curled up against adele , who had in turn curled up toward him , resting her head upon his shoulder .
with thoughtful consideration she had taken her cloak off that it might also cover him .
such ministrations seemed to rafe to call for some comment on his part .
are you comfortable ?
yes , thank you , finn .
her voice was drowsy .
sleep well .
and you , my lady .
rafe could already feel warmth beginning to spread over him and a few minutes later his head drooped , and his cheek sank to rest against adeles hair .
chapter eleven lord rand of targhe stood in the shadows and watched the trio as they settled down for sleep .
his eyes were obscured and therefore his expression was inscrutable .
he stood beside the trunk of a big tree , invisible to the people not twenty feet away from him .
he was alone , a circumstance that would have bewildered rafe yet further had he but known of it .
his sword was drawn in his hand but his grip was loose , as though he had little intention of using it .
he stood there for a long time , turning the sword restlessly , but slowly , as though he found the movement therapeutic .
he hadnt been able to sleep .
as he had lain next to the fire fatigue had fled and drowsiness had disappeared in the face of his encroaching thoughts .
eventually it had been too much , and he had risen from his bed and crept out of the camp .
he had needed to see this warrior that he was following , and had known that he would not be able to rest until he had .
this need had drawn him from the warmth of his furs , and through the damp darkness , to stand watching in the shadows of the forest .
now here he couldnt seem to leave .
he was so close to her .
he could have walked across the space that separated them and finish finally what his father had started all those years before .
his face stretched into a smile that was made ghastly by the moonlight , eyes turning in to slits and his mouth becoming a black slash in his pale face .
of course , he would have to do something about the warrior first .
even though he was curled up beneath the out crop , and made indistinct by the cloak covering him , rand could still see him as he had appeared when fighting off the attack at the first camp .
he would have trouble with him , and he had no wish to feel the cold kiss of steel .
no , it would have to wait until another time , a time when he had numbers on his side .
still he lingered , unable to tear himself away from his hiding place .
his closeness to adele , but his inability to get closer , was a sweet torment that both frustrated and yet excited him .
soon the time would come , his wait would not be long .
the wind picked up and sent a sighing breath of dampness through the trees .
it blew on rand at an angle , striking his left side and rippling up through his hair .
one moment he was still before it , allowing it to flow across him , and the next he had spun sharply , sword no longer loose in his hand , but gripped strongly , and pressed against the throat of the man he had caught and pinned against the trunk of a tree .
for a second the figure clawed and struggled strenuously , but silently .
his only reward was for rands sword to press closer into the flesh of his neck .
abruptly the figure stopped struggling and sagged against the tree , breathing as deeply as rands grip allowed .
for a few moments rand and the intruder remained thus as all around them the wind moaned and leaves stirred softly .
then rand released him .
you should know better than to startle me , bron , he reproved mildly .
bron smoothed a hand over the skin of his neck which still tingled from the touch of rands sword .
i did not notice that you were much surprised , master .
rand did not reply , but turned back to his contemplation of those beneath the shelter of the out crop .
what the ?
rand started , his attitude becoming more tense .
can you see him ?
see who , master ?
the warrior you fool !
spluttered rand , seizing him by the arm and pulling him down to crouch against the roots of one of the large trees .
can you not see his place is empty ?
bron looked across to the cave .
the fire burnt brightly and there were still two figures wrapped up beside its warmth , deep in sleep .
however , as lord rand had stated , the warrior was no longer there .
the place where he had rested was noticeable only by the hastily flung back cloak , and small white hand and wrist which now lay uncovered in the open where the cloak was turned back .
bron turned to lord rand , his mouth opening that he might make some remark to his master .
rand flung out a hand and gripped his shoulder tightly to silence him .
rands eyes scanned the darkness keenly there was a full moon but the light that filtered down through the branches was not strong .
its eerie glow was fickle , playing tricks on his eyes .
he wished he had at least an idea where the warrior might be , but he could see nothing of him in the gloom .
they waited for endless moments , rands posture becoming even more taut .
his hand , as it clasped his sword , gripped with such fierceness that the sinews stood out from the bone .
he felt a light sensation on his neck and turned quickly , his sword swinging viciously through the air .
there was naught to be seen and he had to suppose it had only been a leaf blown by the wind .
still , he was badly shaken and the adrenalin that had spread through his veins at the thought of imminent danger now disappeared , leaving him a strange quivering weakness in his stomach .
brons hand clamped down onto his for a moment before he gestured back to the cave .
the warrior was moving through the trees toward the fire , his progress silent but purposeful as his gaze swept restlessly over the surrounding area .
he hesitated at the fireside , and then drove his sword into the ground and settled himself back into his previous position , careful not to disturb either of the ladies .
rand began to relax , but caught his breath sharply as he noticed that the warrior remained upright , leaning against the rock and pulling from his belt a dagger .
at the last moment he looked up and across to where rand crouched .
it seemed to rand that in that instant their eyes met , that the warriors gaze had pierced the darkness that shrouded him .
he spent several seconds assuring himself that this could not be so , that the warriors eyes would be dazzled by the flames .
it could only be happenchance that he had picked out the spot where they were hidden .
every reassurance disappeared as the warrior continued to stare him straight in the eye and one lid dropped slowly , covering the left orb for a few moments .
rand heard bron gasp beside him .
he could not possibly bron swallowed .
no , no tis just a trick of the light .
both looked back to the warrior .
he lifted his hand and the dagger flew from his fingers .
rand and bron parted before it and the knife struck the trunk of the tree behind them .
the blade buried a good inch into the wood , its jewel encrusted handle protruding outwards between them both .
bron reached out a hand to it , but rand stopped him pulling the weapon free .
no , leave it , just in case it was a guess .
if we leave it he will never know for sure .
bron nodded his agreement .
the two of them retreated , silently making their way back to their camp .
despite his words it was a very unsettled rand of targhe that returned to his men that night .
finan woke , the hairs on the back of his neck raised as he lay silent , he heard the sound of someone entering his tent .
his hand strayed to his dagger , but the last confusing wisps of sleep disappeared from his brain and he realised that violence was not going to be necessary .
the intruder was making no effort to be stealthy and had just tripped over a small stool .
finan listened as the prowler pulled himself upright and set the stool to rights .
finan , are you awake ?
the voice was a breathy whisper .
i hardly see how i could be expected to be asleep with you charging around like a bull , replied finan mildly .
what ails you , fricka ?
why are you not asleep like everyone else ?
leofric bent over the embers of the fire and stoked them to life .
where is the wood kept ?
outside the door , answered finan , sitting up and stretching his tall frame .
leofric disappeared through the tent flap , and finan could hear him rummaging around making a noise , he thought with a smile , like a large mouse .
leofric returned and threw an armful of logs onto the fire in the centre of the tent .
then he pulled a stool close to where the first weak flames flickered around the wood .
finan pulled himself from his bed and dragged his cloak around his shoulders , before staggering to where leofric crouched close to the heat .
tis a cold night twill be a hard winter i think .
leofric grunted in reply and continued to stare at the flames .
finan rubbed his hand over his face and neck , yawning .
with valrek so close to mercias border it will mean the possibility of raids , we had best prepare the guard .
leofric ventured a nod but seemed too engrossed to attempt anything more .
finan watched him for some moments in silence as the flickering light of the flames played over his youthful features .
his face was troubled , a rather harassed frown drawing his brows together , and his lips clenched too tight .
come , leofric lad , observed finan softly , youve pulled me from my bed at a time heathens would shrink from have you naught to say to me ?
leofric started at the sound of his name and turned his long lashed eyes toward his friend .
his face took on a guilty cast .
forgive me , finan twas unthinking of me to wake you .
what a pestilent fellow i am , i never even thought .
tis no matter , lad .
no , you never do think me pestilent or tiresome .
you know , i believe that i have never heard you utter an impatient word , finan .
i would not go so far as that , but my temper is easy it has to be with rafe coiled so tight .
leofric smiled , chuckling as he stamped on a spark .
rafe curses more than anyone i know .
i think the worse the name he calls you by , the more pleased he is with what you have done .
i would he were here now , for after he had told you that you were the spawn of evil for dragging him out of bed , and berated you as a simple fool for wanting to sit in the cold of early morning , you would , i know , feel much better .
leofric smiled , but this time it was absentmindedly and his thoughts were obviously elsewhere .
you have had another dream .
it was a statement , not a question .
leofric stiffened and kept his face averted , but after a few moments he gave an abrupt nod .
finan gazed at his friend in sympathy , he well knew how leofric had been troubled by unsettling dreams since his boyhood .
finan remembered the first time he had met him .
finan himself had been fifteen , guarding over a nine year old rafe .
leofric had been a small boy of four with large , dark fringed , eyes and a head of coppery curls .
he had been fierce in his desire to be accepted by rafe and finan , and had been full of bravado and spunk .
yet that had been during the day .
at night it had been different .
leofric had writhed and cried out against the dreams that terrorised him , finally being jolted from sleep into the cold hours of darkness .
his youngest foster brother had never told him the contents of these dreams but , after experiencing such nightmares , he was always unable to sleep again .
since those far gone days it had become leofrics habit to seek out the company of those who he called friend .
many were the times that finan had been roused from sleep to sit in the chill air of morning beside a silent and meditative leofric .
some men might have baulked at such an imposition , but finan was easy going .
he knew how hard leofrics lot in life had been .
even rafe , who was acknowledged to be a rather warm tempered young man , had never failed leofric at these times of need .
leofric had tried so hard to pretend that he was not under stress , that anxiety did not exist for him .
yet both rafe and finan knew that their presence beside him in these moments calmed him , and allowed him to relax .
chapter twelve brogan ?
lord brogan of valrek halted in his progress across the courtyard , and turned to face the man who had hailed him .
ramm , i did not expect to find you here .
lord brogan clasped hands with lord drogand , smiling .
i wished to see if my liege had need of me , answered lord drogand .
and is leofric with you ?
lord drogand shook his head , and they continued to walk across the yard together toward the house .
no , leofric has gone to merrodon to see if he might be of any help to rafe .
lord drogands brow clouded a little .
it will do him good to finally be useful to someone , he muttered .
lord brogan did not betray either surprise or dismay at this utterance , but continued in his measured pace .
rafe is always telling me the great help and comfort that leofric is to him on campaigns , the relief that it is to him to have someone on whom he can depend completely .
it is nice to know that leofric has such a solid companion , one who over looks certain deficiencies .
lord brogan was silent .
this was not a subject he wished to discuss with lord drogand , for lord brogan had always deplored the way that his friend belittled his son .
firstly on principle , but also because he had a great fondness for leofric and enough understanding of his mind to know that the boy was greatly hurt by his fathers manner .
it was , however , unlikely that lord drogand would submit himself to a homily on this subject , and there was little point in disrupting their friendship with words that lord brogan had no doubt would be ignored by lord drogand .
tis said that war is imminent betwixt kent and sussex , remarked lord drogand after an uneasy silence .
war is always imminent between kent and sussex , tis traditional .
almost as traditional as war between mercia and ourselves .
lord brogan shot his friend a reproving stare and shook his head .
you should let old grievances pass , ramm , there is little point in engaging in battle with mercia .
their strength is as great as our own , we should be stirring a hornets nest of unrest .
lord drogand laughed gently .
i never thought to see you so poor spirited , brogan .
when i think of how it was with you when we were boys .
you were never more pleased than when a fight loomed .
i distinctly remember that when lord fordal buckled under the threat of attack , after we all had decided that there was nothing for it but bloodshed , you indulged in a fit of sullenness that i have never seen equalled .
tis my belief that you would still be brooding over it if it had not been that you met ebba and decided that after all life was still worth living .
lord brogan smiled at this reference to his wife .
yes , well , as that may be , there is a reason for such behaviour , answered lord brogan .
foolishness is tied up with the heart of a boy , i have out grown such things .
have you my friend ?
queried ramm with a slight smile .
perhaps .
they walked on in silence again .
have you seen king ine ?
lord brogan nodded .
yes , i have been with him this hour and more .
both men came to a halt outside a large wooden building and lord ramm opened the door , walking into the busy great hall .
the air was stale and carried the taste of smoke , along with the savoury fragrance of meat .
and what of you , ramm ?
asked lord brogan moving through the throng and sitting down in one of the great chairs drawn up to where a fire blazed .
lord drogand stretched a hand out towards the heat of the flames .
not as of yet king ine has been too occupied to see me .
lord ramm lounged back in his chair with a slight shrug .
it matters not , i have the time to wait .
lord brogan called a page to his side , and ordered that a goblet of spiced wine should be brought before them .
he then settled back into the soft furs that covered his chair .
you look tired my friend , observed lord drogand , his eye narrowed a little in thought .
tis naught .
lord brogan lifted his hand in a lazy gesture of dismissal .
lord drogand let the matter drop but continued to gaze at him , a faint furrow between his brows .
i have heard , brogan , that the dispute between lord merrodon and lord coughly his voice trailed off , eyes sliding away from those of his friend to gaze with fixated interest on a spark that glowed hotly on the hearth .
there are those who say it can not be resolved , he finished .
and why do they say that ?
because , at its heart , i believe the problem between them is a matter of pride .
yes , i should imagine that it is , lord brogan answered , taking a sip of his wine .
it was foolish of lord merrodon to enter into negotiations with coughly if he was not sure that he would carry the thing through .
it was even more reprehensible of him to hold up coughlys jilted son as a figure of fun to the family he finally did choose to bestow his daughter upon .
lord drogands head snapped round sharply , and for a second he stared at lord brogan in astonishment .
you knew ?
but of course i did rafe told me weeks since .
rafe knew ?
lord brogans deep chuckle rumbled softly across the space between them .
you underestimate rafe , ramm , you always have .
lord drogand made as if to argue but lord brogan raised his hand silencing him .
no , ramm you do underestimate him , just as you have underestimated others .
lord brogans voice was gentle but his eyes , beneath their drooping lids , were steely .
do not we all upon occasion ?
shrugged lord drogand dismissively .
you know , i have just recalled the finish of the scripture you quoted foolishness is tied up with the heart of a boy , the rod of discipline is what will remove it far from him .
rafe was awakened by the extreme coldness of his hand .
he had stirred at some point during the night , and his arm was no longer covered by the cloak .
he straightened and made to stretch before remembering adele .
her head was still lying pillowed on his shoulder .
in her sleep she had curled a little closer to his warmth , tucking her hand beneath her chin .
he looked down at her for some time , studying her sleep flushed cheeks and the dark fringe of lashes that lay against her skin .
she was somehow very beautiful not striking perhaps , but quietly pleasing .
when awake her eyes drew all attention , mesmerising with their luminous wonder .
while she slept it was possible to take in the finer points of her features the smooth skin , the delicately sculpted mouth that seemed to smile even through the oblivion of dreams , and the thick hair that framed her face .
it was an odd feeling to watch her slumber , to feel her soft warmth within the circle of his arm , and the rise and fall of her breathing .
it was almost guilty , as though he were witnessing something which he had no right to see .
he couldnt remember ever having watched aisly or esme sleep .
it seemed suddenly a painfully personal thing to observe , something he had no right to be doing .
he would have liked to allow her the luxury of resting a little longer but knew he could not , not after last night .
he didnt know who those men were , or what they had wanted , but he did know that he wished to put as much distance between them and adele as possible .
lady adele ?
he shook her shoulder gently , and felt her move away from his touch with a sigh .
lady adele .
her eyes opened , their gaze dreamy and unseeing , and she blinked once , twice , and a third time .
is it morning already ?
unfortunately , yes , my lady , replied rafe , and we should resume our journey as quickly as possible .
adele was rubbing her eyes sleepily , but at his words she nodded and reached out to where eda lay , still fast asleep .
wake up , eda , tis morning .
eda moaned and pulled the cloak up over her head .
now , now , eda .
you know that i can never be forceful before breakfast , so do not be difficult .
adele slowly got to her knees and crawled out from beneath the outcrop .
standing in the cold morning air she pushed some wisps of hair back from her face .
eda , look the rain has stopped and there is even a little sunshine !
t'will rain later i do not doubt , came edas muffled voice from beneath the cloak .
adele unbound the leather tie that held her hair tidy , and began to comb out the plait with her fingers as she turned toward rafe .
she will wake up in a moment , finn , she may even deign to breakfast with us .
a muffled snort sounded from beneath the cloak , and adele laughed .
rafe continued setting out the rye bread and chicken .
it was only as he came to slice off a portion of cheese that he remembered that his dagger was buried in the tree by which the men had hidden .
he stood , leaving both women to go and retrieve it .
adele watched him go , wondering why he seemed so distant and troubled with the arrival morning .
eda , if you wake up i shall tidy your hair for you .
the cloak inched down a little and eda regarded her speculatively .
you would ?
adele nodded .
eda slowly pulled herself upright , giving a groan .
i am so stiff , i could not even tell you .
adele smiled as she lifted edas silken hair back from her face and pulled a comb through its luxuriant length .
sectioning the hair , she patiently tried to untangle the disordered curls .
when rafe returned it was to find adele frowning and eda wincing .
we shall have time to eat before we go then ?
yes , i suggest you breakfast well for we will not stop again today until we make camp tonight .
why are you in such a hurry ?
ouch , adele !
do try to be gentle !
adele murmured her apologies , and continued to pull the comb through edas hair .
eda winced and scowled as the comb caught on another knot and snagged .
why are you in such a hurry anyway ?
she asked snappishly .
not that i had noticed that our previous pace was relaxed .
eda waited for rafe to respond to her question , but he said nothing and continued to apportion the food in silence .
he could tell them , but what would be the gain of such an action ?
maybe it would impress upon them the importance of accomplishing this next stretch of their journey as quickly as possible .
then again it might just make them even more upset and anxious to know the further trouble they faced .
he looked up to find adeles eyes upon him , they did not question or rebuke him for failing to answer edas question .
they were filled with warm concern that , it seemed to him , stretched across the space that divided them and poured a soothing balm on his spirit .
rafe had never known a feeling like he experienced then , could not explain it .
all he knew was that as he looked at her it was as if time had stood still .
the breeze rippled through adeles hair sending long strands to float lazily on the air and brush against the column of her throat .
if he had been closer rafe knew he would have been hard pressed not to reach out and catch one of the snaking tendrils between his fingers .
he shook his head and looked away .
never before had he experienced such a desire , and even now he was embarrassed by its foolishness .
adele watched him turn away , saw the dull colour spread over his features and wondered what had caused his embarrassment .
even as she turned back to continue to comb edas hair she wondered if she would ever truly understand finan of gournay .
would she ever see more than the little that he allowed her to see ?
she felt as though there was so much that he hid from her , so much of himself that he withheld and kept in reserve .
she was startled to hear his voice when he spoke .
she had thought that he would ignore edas question but now he answered , the words coming hard and bitter from his mouth .
he wouldnt look at them , but his eyes fixed on the fire with disgust and revulsion churning in their depths .
the lands which we must pass over today belong to lord gradock .
lord gradock bears a grudge against lord rafe , if he finds us on his property he will kill us .
my , my is not lord rafe a well liked man , adele ?
remarked eda .
what did he do to inspire such devotion ?
he killed lord gradocks son , bertolf .
rafe stood , tucked the dagger into his belt , and walked to where the horses grazed peacefully .
killed !
gasped eda hoarsely .
he said killed , adele .
great goodness for all we know lord rafe may have a wergild on his head !
adele was silent , eating her portion of rye bread and cheese with a thoughtful look upon her face .
this new piece of information did not fit the image she had built up of lord rafe .
adele , have you naught to say to this ?
demanded eda .
adele continued to chew silently for a moment , until her eyes fell on the third untouched portion laid out on the cloth .
she reached out a hand picking it up .
look finn forgot to take his breakfast .
is that all ?
are you not even a little put out by this news ?
adele met her friends eyes , and eda saw that they were as unconcerned as always they were .
he really should eat it , i think i shall take it to him .
rafe did not hear adele approach , he was too busy cursing himself for being every sort of fool .
did he wish to make her hate him ?
did he want her to fear him ?
why then did he have to phrase it like that , so baldly and without explanation .
he had wanted to elucidate , to defend himself , but the words had stuck in his throat , choking him and bringing back the memory , the sickening feeling of helplessness .
how could he defend himself ?
bertolf of gradock had been a drunkard and a trouble maker , but that did not make rafe feel any the better .
he still felt heavily the blood on his hands .
you were so insistent that we take our food , finn , and yet look you forgot your own .
rafe stared at the parcel she held out to him for some time , but when his hand finally did reach out it was to wrap his fingers around her wrist .
it is not what you think .
if you knew what i was thinking you would know that you need not tell me that .
i know lord rafe would never kill an innocent man .
rafes grip tightened , turning his knuckles white .
but he was or at least rafe turned from her , sitting down on a fallen tree and resting his head in his hands .
we were banqueting in the kings hall .
rafe caught himself .
that is , lord rafe and i .
he could not quite meet adeles eyes as he made the correction , but stared away through the trees .
everything he said seemed to draw him deeper into this deceit , even when baring his soul to her he could not be completely honest .
the banquet was held by prince aedelred in honour of the men that had fought alongside him to repel a raid made by mercia .
bertolf was there , and as was his habit he had drunk to an excess .
he and prince aedelred disputed over some small matter and eventually came to blows .
rafe paused , taking a deep breath and staring at a bare patch of earth kicked up by the horses .
lord rafe separated the two of them , but lord gradocks son staggered and fell against one of the benches .
the fall broke his neck .
rafes face twisted bitterly , and adele suddenly found his eyes upon her .
you know prince aedelred could not even recall over what they had quarrelled .
so stupid , such a pointless waste of a life .
for a moment they sat in silence , and adele could see a terrible guilt in rafes face .
it seems to me that bertolfs life had already been wasted , finn .
what happened was not lord rafes fault .
tell that to lord gradock , returned rafe .
if we had not been there that night , his son would live still .
whose fault is that if not lord rafes ?
the silence that greeted this question was broken by adele standing abruptly .
rafe watched the colour disappear from her face and her eyes fill with fiery anger .
tis not your place to make such an observation concerning your lord , finn .
her voice was tight and shaking with the effort to remain controlled .
you are mistaken if you suppose that i should be so disloyal to him as to let you speak such things .
for a moment both stared at the other adele in trembling fury , and rafe in complete surprise .
he felt strangely humbled that she should show such loyalty to him , it grated horribly on his conscience when he thought that in return for her loyalty he was deceiving her .
this was the time to tell her , to admit the mistake yet he had so much more to lose now her trust , her friendship , the easiness between them , and now her loyalty as well .
no , better to wait until they reached merrodon .
his mouth opened that he might explain , but he had no words .
why do you defend him ?
the second he had spoken he was aware of his mistake , but he was not sorry , he had a burning desire to hear her answer .
lord rafe has been very kind to me , as i am sure he has been to you also .
kind ?
he has ignored you for most of your life , yet you speak of his kindness ?
sparks of anger flew from adeles eyes , and rafe observed her hands clench in to fists .
stop !
this conversation must end now , before one of us .
the look she gave him left him in no doubt as to whom she was referring .
before one of us says something that can not be forgiven !
for a moment there was complete silence between them .
it was broken by rafe .
your pardon , lady adele .
he managed to gather his wits together just in time to save himself from a complete fall from grace .
i am sorry if i have overstepped my place .
adele looked slightly mollified , but continued to regard him with a faintly frosty gleam in her eyes .
i know that it is hard for you to have us to take care of .
adeles voice came with difficulty .
i know that there are many problems that we are facing , do not think that i am unaware of the very great responsibility that weighs heavily on your shoulders .
i know it is only because of these things , because you are tired and under stress , that you have spoken in this way , but but do not ever speak so of lord rafe again .
her eyes stirred with worry and something else that was not unfriendly , and suddenly her voice was anxious .
for we are friends , finn , and i please , finn , do not let us argue !
adele he stretched out a hand towards her .
i thought that we were supposed to be starting out early and hastening to cover this next part of our journey as quickly as possible ?
edas voice called from where she stood next to the smouldering fire .
just a moment , eda !
adele called back , but she hesitated and did not leave .
was there something else you wished to say , finn ?
rafe stared down into her face , knowing what he should do but still hesitating .
adele adele , are you coming ?
eda called again .
in a moment , eda .
adele turned questioning eyes back to rafe .
he sighed , looked down , and shook his head .
it would have to wait until they reached merrodon , then there would be the opportunity to leave her alone with his revelation and give her time to adjust .
he couldnt tell her here when after the confession had been made they would have to continue on in such close company .
awkward did not seem to be a big enough word to describe the atmosphere that would reign .
twas naught , lady adele .
she nodded her head uncertainly and turned away .
rafe watched her leave , wishing even as she did that he had told her .
he hesitated within himself on the brink of calling her back .
he was confused .
he knew what he ought to do , knew that at some point the truth would come out and that the longer he waited to tell her the more likely it was that she would find out by herself .
the more time that passed , the more deceived she would feel , but he knew he had to wait , now just was not an acceptable time to try to explain .
what is it , finn ?
eda had appeared beside him , her cloak pulled tight around her shivering form , and an expression of worry not unmixed with irritation on her pretty face .
nothing , my lady .
eda caught his arm as he turned from her .
her grip was surprisingly strong causing him to spin round to face her .
understand this , finan .
her voice was calm but filled with warning .
lady adele means more to me than you will ever know , and i can tell when something has occurred to distress her .
although i might not know you very well , anyone could see that you are ill at ease .
for a moment they gazed at each other measuringly .
i care not what you disagreed over , it matters not , but i wish you to understand that your responsibility toward lady adele is not just that you keep her safe , but that you keep her happy as well .
it is a fact that i am well aware of , lady eda , replied rafe grimly .
i have apologised for the whole and begged lady adeles pardon .
that must surely be enough to satisfy you ?
eda continued to gaze at rafe , her head a little to one side , a look in her eyes that he could not quite make out .
it seemed to him that they contained a sympathy of sorts .
you should be careful , finan , for that which you are beginning to lose you can not retrieve , and that which you are beginning to crave is not yours to request .
her eyes gleamed with unshed tears .
in this i have experience , finan , and i know that this path leads only to great heartache .
try to do that which i could not and turn from the road before you .
rafe frowned down into her reflective face .
he was unsure of her meaning but aware that , whatever it was that she was trying to convey to him , it was in genuine kindness that she did so .
her eyes earnestly bored into his , and in their depths he saw wistful sadness and great pain .
strange , but he had not paid eda much attention .
she had been an unnecessary bother to him , one who had the unfortunate habit of calling into question his every action , which annoyed him greatly .
as he had only ever noticed her when she had dissented or complained , his opinion of her was a little biased , based as it was on characteristics he found most irritating .
now he found himself wondering why she was so sad , so low in spirit that she would approach a man she barely knew and whom , from all that had passed between them , she did not seem to like , and give him heartfelt counsel .
he was still staring at her in sudden interest when adele reappeared , her cloak wrapped around her shoulders and her eyes down cast .
she did look different from usual he had to own .
she seemed ill at ease , and for the first time when he stepped forwards to lift her on to chargers back he knew a moment of awkwardness .
it seemed suddenly a hard thing to slide his arm around her waist and lift her onto the great animals back .
after he had released her and helped eda to mount , he had the strangest notion that he could still feel adeles softness within his arms .
adele did not look at him again , she stared rigidly down at chargers mane as though it absorbed all her attention .
in truth she was trying to ignore the way her heart was pounding .
it was only because she and finn had argued , she told herself .
yet even as she assured herself she winced , knowing it to be a lie .
somehow a lie seemed safer than the truth .
the truth was far more complicated and , to be quite frank , it filled her with fear .
still , the truth would have to be faced .
it would do no good to ignore that she had wanted desperately to comfort finn by any means possible , even if it had meant being disloyal to lord rafe .
finn would never know how strong the desire had been and , as a consequence , her words had been harsher than she had intended .
she had known that to have wavered , even a little , would have destroyed her resolve and found her taking her stand upon finns side .
she could not have done that however much she liked him .
the knowledge that she had sided with him instead of lord rafe would have hung between them forever , and ultimately it would have harmed their friendship more than the words that had been spoken at this time .
so why did she still feel regret ?
adele sighed heavily things had become so much more difficult since leaving the fort .
she had thought that , even though her life had been reclusive , she had learnt a great deal of people and of how to coexist peacefully with them .
indeed she had believed that she had wisdom beyond her years in that respect .
life within a house full of women could not but be filled , upon occasion , with a certain nervous tension .
not that the ladies at the fort had been trouble makers or malicious , for the most part relations between all were very cordial .
however there had been moments caused by a wrong word or action , maybe only a misunderstanding , when there had been the unpleasant feeling of discomfort in the air .
adele shook her head but there had been nothing like this .
she could not explain how it was different , she only knew that it was and that the discomfort she felt as a result was also entirely new .
maybe it was because she and finn had treated each other with the easy companionship of friends .
the recollection of their respective stations had been a jarring note of discordance .
she could not but be sorry for it , she understood the trouble that she and eda were to him .
yet he had not reproached them , even when she had been practically useless after that first days ride and had needed to stop at regular intervals all through the next day to ease the pain of her stiff muscles .
he had not even balked when eda had been at her most irritable .
perhaps there was more to the incident than finns brief account had implied ?
maybe there was a personal element to the story that he had not included , and which made his bitterness a little more understandable .
adele was not sure what scared her more that finn could be so changeable , or the ease with which she found excuses for his behaviour .
chapter thirteen leofric stepped out of the tent and into the weak sunshine , stretching his aching muscles and closing his eyes against the light .
on nights when he hadnt been able to sleep he saw this moment as his conciliation .
it was the most amusing time of the day as the men in the camp staggered around drowsily .
these burly soldiers , only being half conscious , were apt to be , at this tender point in their day , as grumpy as bears .
to watch them shambling around grunting whatever comments or answers they had to make , and generally betraying greatly antisocial tendencies , could not but tickle ones humour .
provided , of course , that the one observing such behaviour had been awake for some time , and had already waded through the mists of half sleep .
leofric pulled his cloak around his shoulders and made his way through the tents , leaving finan to sleep on .
he had no destination in mind , but drifted through the camp and on into the forest .
it was still in the shelter of the trees and silent but for the occasional creak of a tree branch .
the coolness of the air revitalised him and he sat down on a tree stump , gazing at the beauty all around him .
for a long time now the trees had been stripped of their leaves , and their empty limbs reached yearningly for the sky .
it was a while before he realised that he was not alone and , as the revelation hit him , he stared hard at the intruder .
who are you ?
the tone , even more than the actual words , conveyed a great deal of hostility .
your pardon , lord leofric , i did not mean to startle you .
whether you did or did not makes no matter to me , answered leofric impatiently .
i asked who you are .
my name is tellan of merrodon , replied lord merrodon , inclining his head a little .
that explains how you know me , what it does not explain is why you followed me to this place .
a rather martial light came into leofrics eyes .
in the answer to that question i am greatly interested .
lord merrodon took a hasty step backwards and away from leofric , interpreting his movements as antagonistic .
in this conjecture he was quite correct .
i meant nothing by it , my lord , i wished only for a few moments discourse with you regarding the situation that i find myself in .
leofric shrugged and waved a dismissive hand .
i have no interest in the trivial differences of others , i will not take part in this matter .
be assured that lord rafe is more than capable .
please reconsider , think a little .
lord merrodons voice was persuasive .
lord rafe is , i am sure , an excellent person , but he has proven himself unable to settle this affair .
lord merrodon paused to gauge leofrics reaction to this observation and found that he was attitude was stiff , and a hard glint had materialised in his eyes .
go on .
lord merrodon leaned forward a little closer , continuing in the manner of a conspirator .
if you were able to settle this matter where lord rafe had been unable to succeed , only imagine the honour and glory that would be yours .
think of how pleased the king would be .
lord merrodon smiled smoothly .
think how proud your father would be !
leofrics fist shot out , catching lord merrodon on the jaw and jerking his head sideways .
he fell backwards , sprawling on the carpet of leaves .
leofric hauled him to his feet roughly , but forbore to hit him again .
go !
and be thankful that you still have the use of all your limbs !
my lord i said leave !
i will not hear another word of your treachery and if you stay so much as a moment longer , i will give you the thrashing you deserve !
leofric thrust lord merrodon away from him and watched as he staggered away .
leofric remained where he stood long after lord merrodon had disappeared from sight .
so this was what people thought of him , this was how they expected him to act .
they believed he would betray his friends for parental recognition .
did they really suppose that his father would be impressed by such a base action ?
yes , his father wanted him to succeed like rafe or even surpass him .
however , he would not relish his sons success if attained in such a way , surely they could see that ?
leofric felt a prickle of unease spread down his neck , and rubbed his eyes tiredly .
just a few moments ago he had been happy in spite of his restless night .
now he was filled with a cold , heavy emotion he recognised only too well .
he began to make his way back to the camp slowly , the slope of his shoulders conveying with precision the depths to which his spirits had plummeted .
he wanted to pretend that his father would be as horrified as he was himself by lord merrodons words .
however leofric knew that his father would have had him best rafe by fair means or foul .
he sighed .
his father had always wanted so much from him .
for years leofric had been pressed to study all of the things in which rafe excelled , that he might surpass him whatever the cost .
leofric felt somehow responsible for the feelings that now filled his fathers heart , because it was possible that he could have done better if he had tried .
yet he never had tried .
he had always resented his fathers obvious belief that rafe was better than him , and for most of his life he had fought his sire in the only way he knew how by refusing to be that which he wished him to be .
yet the more they fought , the further from each other they became , and leofric knew that it cost them both greatly .
now it was too late .
for years they had argued , now they just drifted , each painfully aware of the other , disappointed with the other , but having nothing left to say to each other .
every word that could possibly have been said had been spoken , and now there was only silence and emptiness left .
leofric stepped out of the trees and wandered back to finans tent .
he approached just as finan , his gaze somewhat bleary , stepped out into the sunshine .
leofric forced a smile onto his face , and lifted his hand in salutation .
i see you managed to join us .
anyone might think you had been up all night , finan !
his voice was filled with merriment .
leofric had learnt the art of disguise a long time ago .
he almost deceived himself .
rafe pulled gently on valliants rein , pulling the horse to a stop .
finn ?
what is it ?
eda asked .
her customary waspishness had vanished since their conversation of the morning , and now when she addressed him it was with easy cordiality .
horse tracks , rafe answered .
is that bad ?
it means that someone has passed this way recently .
rafe looked around at the many hoof prints .
at least six horses with riders .
how can you tell whether there were riders or not ?
i can see where they reined the horses in .
rafe shifted and , clinging tightly to valiant , hung from the horses side to get a closer look at the tracks .
they passed this way not long ago .
his voice remained bland , but there was a furrow between his brows that told with eloquence of the worry he felt .
rafe hauled himself upright and looked through the trees meditatively .
it could be a patrol of some kind , if that were the case and they had already passed this way lately it was possible that they would be able to avoid a confrontation .
on the other hand it could be a hunt , and if that were the case it was more worrying .
a hunt would career madly across the countryside , and such a course could not be calculated and avoided .
rafe urged valiant forwards to inspect the ground further out between the trees and found evidence of two more horses and riders , as well as the tracks of hunting dogs .
he knew that the urgency of their journey was increased greatly , as was the chance of capture .
finn ?
it was the first time adele had addressed him since the sharp words that had passed between them .
tis a hunting party .
then surely we are safe , for they will not come this way again , will they ?
asked eda .
rafe wished he felt such a certainty but did not depress her hopes with his own , less cheerful , reading of the situation .
we should continue moving .
rafe judged that they were perhaps half way across lord gradocks lands , a few hours more and they would be safe .
maybe eda was right it was possible that the hunting party would not come this way again but was now far away .
still he slowed his pace a little if the hunt did come this way again , he wished to hear their approach , not lose the warning sound in the frenzy of their own speed .
for some time it seemed as though his fears were groundless , and they continued through the peaceful forest unhindered .
then he heard the sound he had been dreading the galloping of horses and the barking of dogs .
he reined in , listening intently with his head to one side .
finn , should we not ?
eda broke off as adeles hand covered her mouth and silenced her .
they all sat quietly for innumerable seconds as the sound moved closer to them .
rafe closed his eyes trying to decide from which direction the clamour was coming from .
this way !
valiant seemed to leap forwards suddenly , and charger followed without encouragement from either adele or eda .
both women clung to the horse and prayed that they might keep their seat .
rafes choice of direction was true , but the hunt emerged just close enough behind them to see them disappearing into the trees .
rafe heard a shout go up and then the commotion of the riders turning their mounts in a new direction .
rafe plunged through the undergrowth , swerving this way and that , completely confident in valliants ability to out run the horses behind him .
however he knew charger could not , not when he carried two riders .
abruptly rafe pulled valiant to a standstill and , sliding from the horse , reached an imperative hand up to eda .
charger can not out run those horses with the two of you to carry , you must ride valiant , eda .
but now , eda !
eda found herself obediently slipping from chargers back and was the next second firmly seated on valiant .
ride as hard as you can .
merrodon borders these lands , you should be there by nightfall .
follow the old roman road .
go straight to lord merrodon , lord rafes army will be there .
finn , what will you do ?
asked adele .
my duty is to see that you are safe , i stay here .
but before eda had a chance to finish rafe had slapped valliants rump , sending him away at a canter .
eda could do nothing but cling to his mane .
charger followed and soon both horses were out of sight .
rafe drew his sword and turned to meet the hunting party as they approached .
there were seven men , led by a youth probably still short of his fourteenth year .
all halted as they came across rafe standing alone and with sword drawn before him .
for a moment all was still , and then the youth urged his horse a few steps nearer .
these lands belong to the house of gradock .
his attitude was lazily insolent .
what is your business upon them , stranger ?
i merely travel across them , answered rafe .
and what became of your horse ?
it bolted .
the fair haired youth laughed scornfully at such ineptitude .
it strikes me that i know you from somewhere .
tis possible , i am known to some .
as what bolting horse ?
a general murmur of amusement rippled through the riders .
only by the village half wit , replied rafe .
anger flared up within the youth , flushing his face with vivid colour , and when next he spoke his voice was tight with fury .
whip the dog for his impudence , he demanded .
three of his men slid from their horses and advanced on rafe menacingly .
rafe watched them calmly , his eyes alert to their every movement , before suddenly launching upon them a ferocious attack .
as the fight progressed the figures involved became ever more frantic , and with an irritated cry of impatience the youth sent yet more of his men into the breach .
rafe wielded his sword with the desperation of a man who knew his task to be hopeless , but was never the less determined to expend his all in defiance of his fate .
rafe never could understand how he managed to hold them off for so long , but when he found himself face down on the dried leaves he knew he had accomplished his task .
adele had escaped to him that was all that mattered .
chapter fourteen it was some time later that rafe regained consciousness .
he was aware of the coolness of the floor beneath him , and as he opened his eyes he saw that he was now inside a large building .
in the time it took him to gather his wits , his eyes traced the path of the beams down to where they joined the walls .
they continued their journey down the bare wooden wall to find a large open fire , roaring fiercely , and two rough chairs set each side of its warmth .
he turned his head , wincing as pain shot through him , and his cheek touched the cold dirt floor .
there was no pretence to elegance the furniture was ugly but serviceable , the unadorned walls merely a shelter from the elements , giving the room an air of functionality rather than homeliness .
the chair directly across from him caught his attention .
it was occupied by a large framed man , tending slightly towards paunch but strong looking for all that .
he lounged across the chair , leaning on one of the arms , sunk so deeply into the furs that covered it that he lay almost full stretch .
his hair was dark and a beard covered the lower half of his face .
his eyes , as they lazily surveyed rafe , were shaded by thick brows that jutted ominously .
they were eyes , rafe noted , that held recognition , a recognition that was no doubt reflected in his own .
though he could not recall ever having spoken to daegmund of gradock , he did know him by sight .
i would never have believed you to be so foolish as to stray onto my lands , valrek .
rafe was pulling himself upright , a hand gently cradling his sore head , but at these words his eyes jerked up to meet daegmunds .
your lands ?
my lands , affirmed daegmund .
my esteemed father died at harvest time fortunately for you .
he would have had you drawn and quartered , and sent the pieces back to valrek !
some would say tis no less than you deserve .
rafes fingers traced the lump on his head gently , wincing slightly at its tenderness .
what happened between your brother and i was ill chance , i meant him no harm .
however ill chanced it may have been , gradock blood was spilt .
there is only one way that can be made right the letting of more blood .
you will be punished for whatever revenge you take upon me , returned rafe shortly .
daegmund grunted and reached out a hand for the goblet of ale at his elbow .
a fine ?
what is money to pride ?
my father would have cared nought no matter how high the price you killed his favourite son .
rafe studied his captor carefully .
nothing in daegmunds demeanour indicated violence or bitter anger , he seemed in fact lazily unconcerned .
you need not go the same road as a grieving old man .
he stood , swaying slightly , and reached out a hand to brace himself against the second chair .
i am sorry for what happened , truly i am .
do not think that i treat the thing lightly .
i feel the weight of your brothers death , but it was an unfortunate event , one that you must believe i did not wish for .
rafe passed a weary hand over his eyes , not sure why he was even trying to convince daegmund of his innocence .
the man had lost his brother , then his father , he was immersed in grief , what time did he have for explanations ?
grief was a strange thing , it made people act irrationally , did he not know that himself ?
nothing could alleviate the pain .
he remembered back to the battle of calis , his first battle .
the battle in which he had lost one of his greatest friends , finans younger brother evoric had died that day .
he could remember everything with such clarity , so stark and completely unsoftened by the sixteen years that separated that day from this one .
he remembered the mud that had seeped slowly through his clothes as he had sat beside evoric , the fear that bound him to his side , the horror of knowing that soon he would be gone .
crippling sadness had engulfed him as he had realised that never again would they laugh together .
never again would they lay on the grassy bank of the river at valrek enjoying a companionable silence .
he remembered the agony of finans despair , the hurt and anger that had filled his foster brother with misery .
if he had been presented at that moment with evorics killer , if that man had then excused himself and said that evoric had fallen upon his sword , that he had not wished him any harm , would he have listened , would he have cared for anything that the man might have said ?
you think i care ought for your explanations ?
asked daegmund .
my honour is at stake and you think i could care anything for your penitence ?
rafe set his jaw , his fingers curling into fists .
i meant your brother no harm , and had he not been so full of drink he could hardly stand upright no harm would have come to him .
so now you think to shirk the blame ?
i shirk nothing !
i know the part i played and i know that it was in innocence that i played it .
i beg off from nothing not from punishment or culpability , but the fault was not all my own and you are wrong if you suppose that any revenge that you could devise for me would be more keen than the promptings of conscience i have suffered .
gradock laughed softly , his voice mocking and filled with genuine amusement .
rafe heard the sound of someone clapping , and turned to see the youth he had spoken to earlier sitting in the shadows down one end of the hall .
he seems a little nave , brother .
the youth strolled lazily forward to stand next to the fire .
not a quality i had expected to find in the great rafe of valrek !
not nave , anlaf , replied daegmund .
merely uncomprehending .
daegmunds eyes returned to rafe and he made a little gesture of introduction .
you do not know my younger brother anlaf , i think ?
anlaf inclined his head a little , and rafe wondered at the incongruity of such a polite introduction under the circumstances .
and so now we come to the crux of the matter , continued daegmund of gradock .
what do i do with you ?
rafe looked from one to the other of their matter of fact faces he felt angry and sick at their gloating .
their grief over their brothers death he could understand , he even understood their wish to punish him for the accident that had taken bertolf away from them .
what he could not understand was the way they wished to torment him .
it was something he had no craving to comprehend , and it was certainly not an activity he intended to participate in .
daegmund saw him fall silent , saw his attitude change , and an expression enter his eyes that , for some reason that daegmund could not fathom , caused him to experience a sudden sensation of wariness .
it irritated him .
as i have explained , for the sake of family honour there is only one thing to be done i must avenge my brother , and you must die .
daegmund paused and spread his hands .
however , as you have stated such a course of action would not be without its consequences .
i have no desire for a wergild over my head for i have heard , and here i must bow to your superior knowledge , that they are an unpleasant burden .
they are , very unpleasant , replied rafe stiffly .
you have to say that to convince me to spare you !
reasoned daegmund .
rafes eyes met his a steely light in their depths .
i see your dilemma .
but you have not even begun to see !
objected daegmund .
added to all of this is the fact that i am indebted to you !
you surprise me .
yes , i rather thought i would .
if it had not been for your intervention my brothers premature demise might not have occurred for some time .
daegmund paused looking thoughtful .
although knowing what i do of bertolf , it is entirely possible he could have achieved his end without help , the useless , drunken , sot !
rafes startled eyes met those of daegmund and found them to be full of mirth .
of course it did not occur to you that i might be pleased to have him out of my way .
he was an embarrassment , a fool who had no thought in his head except for that of his next drink .
to him was entrusted the wealth and prosperity of our house !
he muttered disgustedly .
your family is bound together by love and affection .
mine is bound by the bonds of honour , for goodness knows that we have no love for each other .
the only reason we have survived this long is pride in our family name .
we may hate each other , but others are not allowed the same luxury .
so you see , through you i have attained my brothers station .
it seems to me a little ungracious to kill you after you have done me such a good turn .
yet i can not be seen to allow you to escape without punishment .
i do not see how you will address the matter satisfactorily then , it seems to be hopeless .
can you not ?
queried daegmund .
the answer is before you , just the same .
for a moment there was silence between them and daegmund leant forwards in his chair , a contented smile creasing his face .
you are being followed .
daegmund fell back in to the comfort of the furs , and lifted his eyebrows triumphantly .
surely the great rafe of valrek must have known he was being followed ?
i was aware .
did you really think that i would not know also ?
it may surprise you , daegmund , but i am not in the habit of giving any thought to you at all .
sharp colour rose in daegmund of gradocks cheeks and , for the first time , rafe saw a resemblance between him and the youth , anlaf .
you are a fool , valrek .
a rather ugly look entered daegmunds eyes , displaying the temper that the house of gradock was famed for .
so know your fate i will turn you back onto my lands without horse , bow , axe , or spear .
sword i will allow you , for i like to see some sport !
we will see how long you can evade those who are pursuing you .
when they catch you , and catch you they will , i will have avenged my brothers blood , restored my honour , and all without any action for which i can be punished !
and if i escape ?
daegmund tilted his head to one side , gazing at rafe with an amused and thoughtful air .
hang it !
he slapped the arm of his chair .
if you escape then this business will be at an end , you will deserve the reprieve .
do you not agree , anlaf ?
the youth pulled out his knife , twisting the blade so the jewels in the hilt caught the light .
it seems reasonable , daegmund , his eyes narrowed , but i would not be so sure that he will not escape .
that is because you are nought but a foolish boy , smiled daegmund fondly .
anlaf smiled and shook his head .
you saw not how he fought today , brother , he replied softly .
who was on the other horse ?
the question startled rafe and anlaf , sensing that he had unsettled him , leaned forward .
that is it , is it not ?
you fought like a madman twas for whomever was on that horse .
rafe looked from anlafs eager face to that of his brother .
daegmunds eyes had lost some of their laziness and had become surprisingly keen .
for the first time rafe felt the acceleration of his heart at the thought that daegmund might guess that it had been adele who had accompanied him .
if he sent out riders after them would they have a sufficient head start ?
rafe wondered where they were , if they were safe ?
what if they hadnt made it to the border ?
what if some accident had befallen them ?
his imagination began to take over his more rational thoughts , and he envisioned all manner of unlikely things to have occurred .
a raiding party from mercia could well have come upon them and two such beautiful prizes would be a temptation that was hard to resist .
and what of those who had been following them from the start , waiting , for all he knew , for just such a moment as this ?
adele could even now be helpless in their power !
rafe took a deep breath and sank into the chair before him .
such foolish flights of fancy were not helpful , nor were they something he usually indulged in .
if that is how this will be settled , then return my sword and let me go .
daegmund looked surprised .
now ?
if you have not changed your mind , those were the terms of the agreement and now i want to leave .
if that is your wish , i merely thought that you might care to rest a little and take some food first .
you thought i might what ?
daegmund struggled upright and raised a hand , the gesture was placating .
i fear i have not made my position clear to you , tis my temper curse it .
i wish you no ill , but i must be seen to do something my family expects it .
to them it matters not whether you wished to harm bertolf , all that matters is honour .
that does not mean that i wish to see you fail in this endeavour .
your family will hardly be satisfied should i triumph , replied rafe .
still you do not understand !
daegmund shook his head exasperated .
you still suppose this is about love .
allow me to assure you that that is not the case , how could it be for you know what bertolf was !
this is about retaining our pride , about being seen to have extracted some revenge , some recompense .
the wergild i handed over to your family was not recompense enough ?
asked rafe dryly .
daegmund waved his hand in a gesture of dismissal .
the wergild we were forced to take .
king ine demanded that we accept payment rather than demand retribution with the sword .
it lost its significance it was no longer a way to end the wrong , but became a further degradation to make us appear weak .
this arrangement restores to us the element of choice that was denied us before .
rafe was silent for a moment , his head bent and his eyes fixed on the floor .
that is what this is all about ?
he demanded eventually .
you perceive that your hand has been shortened in some way ?
it has nothing to do with perception !
we have been imposed upon and our movements restricted as though we had been children !
perhaps if you had not displayed such an unwillingness to end the matter without further violence , no one would have seen fit to force your hand !
and if you had not meddled in an argument that was not your own , you would not have found yourself in the situation to begin with !
such an argument as this achieves nothing , he stated , biting back the next recrimination that sprang to his lips .
i have business to attend to allow me to leave that i might see to it .
daegmunds anger ebbed and he shook his head .
standing , he made his way to the table at the other side of the room and lifted rafes sword from its surface .
it was a particularly fine sword , one that had been in the valrek family for generations .
it had never left rafes fathers side during all his years of service to king ine .
it was only when lord brogan had retired from the kings service that he had passed it , and all of the responsibility it symbolised , on to rafe .
he could remember the first time that he had taken its jewel encrusted hilt into his hand , knowing it was his , and had felt the pride of his forbears flood through his veins .
now daegmund of gradock held it out towards him , and he reached out to take hold of its familiar weight .
if you should elude those who follow you it is the word of daegmund , lord of gradock , that you have paid off any debt of guilt which you owed to the house of gradock .
daegmund released the sword , and rafe returned it to its sheath at his side .
who was she ?
daegmunds question , coming so wholly without warning , caused him to pause momentarily , his grip on the hilt becoming a little more purposeful .
who ?
daegmund gestured to the sword .
ebba her name is written on the blade .
rafe looked down at the sword in relief .
tis the name of my mother .
my grandmother and great grandmothers names are above it .
rafe held the sword up for daegmund to inspect .
tis a family tradition .
every man that bears this sword inscribes the name of his wife upon it so that , even in battle , they are not separated .
rafe looked up to find daegmund gazing at him with an uncomfortably penetrating stare .
i see .
you had best be on your way , rafe of valrek , you have no time to spare .
anlaf will show you the way .
he knew .
rafe did not know how , but he was sure that daegmund knew exactly who his travelling companion had been .
he knew about adele .
chapter fifteen rand crouched in the clearing and studied the ground carefully .
from what he could tell there were tracks of several horses and a few hunting dogs .
master ?
bron was on his knees beside him .
master , you know what this means ?
that they met up with a hunting party from gradock .
more than that , master , replied bron .
two horses continued in that direction .
bron pointed off into the forest .
but they left someone here .
anxiety became evident in rands eyes , and bron noticed tension beginning to build up in his masters frame .
twas neither of the ladies , master .
bron pointed to the disturbed ground .
there was an almighty fight .
the warrior ?
asked rand quickly .
yes , master .
i would say that he sent the ladies on alone and held the hunt here so that they could make it to safety .
why were they in danger from the hunt ?
asked rand , turning to survey the surroundings .
bron shook his head indicating ignorance and rand sighed , pinching the bridge of his nose .
very well for some reason they were in danger from the hunt .
the warrior stayed and fought , but it does not seem as though they killed him , there is no blood .
no , agreed bron .
the fighting was fierce , but when the warrior went down they dragged him over here .
bron stepped over to where the leaves had been drawn into a pile .
from here they must have lifted him onto a horse .
then lady adele is without protection .
perhaps .
rand had stood and was making his way back to his horse , but he turned at this utterance and watched as bron frowned down at the ground .
what is it ?
bron hesitated .
something that i do not understand .
he pointed again to the forest floor .
this is another two sets of horse tracks which are only a few hours old .
they enter from a different direction to the rest .
one rider dismounted and followed lady adeles tracks , the other took both horses and returned from whence he came .
what !
rand returned to brons side .
what is this all about ?
he wondered aloud , raising his hand to his brow in bewilderment and closing his eyes .
why did the warrior think that lady adele would not be safe from gradocks men ?
why did he prefer to risk sending them away without protection into he knew not what danger ?
why did gradock seize the warrior in the first place with such violence , only to let him go .
and why deny him a horse ?
rand looked again to bron as if appealing for an answer to the conundrum .
perhaps , master , the only way we will ever know is to find the one who makes those tracks .
bron caught the bridle of lord rands horse and led it to his master .
it was only when both men were seated on their mounts again that rand spoke .
we have followed this man for some days now , bron , have you not yet learnt that he is harder to keep track of than you might at first think ?
bron looked vaguely affronted .
i have yet to meet the man i could not track .
and so you doubt that such a man exists ?
returned lord rand with a grin .
i shall make you this promise , master , replied bron evenly .
i will follow his tracks to their finish as sure as the sun will rise tomorrow .
as to catching him that i will not promise , for it is a different matter entirely .
bron had been studying the ground carefully as he talked , and now he reined in his horse .
what is it ?
asked rand .
the tracks split here .
rand leaned forwards in his saddle .
the two horses ?
no , master , the two horses went in that direction , but the warrior went east .
the warrior is of secondary importance .
rand shifted , looking worried .
still i do not like the idea of being unaware of his whereabouts .
he paused for a moment .
you had better take two of the men and follow his tracks .
i will follow lady adele .
bron nodded , but looked a little doubtful .
well what is it ?
asked lord rand at length .
i was only wondering , master , if perhaps you might need me here with you ?
can you be suggesting , bron , that you think me incapable of following these tracks without your help ?
bron belatedly saw his mistake , and found himself speechless .
after a few uncomfortable minutes of silence lord rand flicked his mount with his leather bridle .
just so , bron .
i did not enough , bron , the subject becomes tiresome .
rands mount moved forward eagerly , but he reined in again .
bron !
yes , master ?
bring the warrior to me alive .
rand hesitated and then smiled .
be careful .
thank you , master .
you are upon occasion useful to me , bron .
rands smile wavered , and his voice took on a more serious .
i mean it keep sharp .
the warriors movements will be unexpected , they always are .
yes , master .
bron raised his hand in a gesture of farewell , and moved to follow the warriors tracks .
they lead him away from those his master followed and into a more wooded part of the forest .
the going was harder , suited to a man on foot but less suited to a rider on horseback .
bron surmised that it was actually the more direct route over lord gradocks lands , but that the one his master followed was the easier to cover .
he wondered a little at his master , at the eager pace at which he was pursuing his present course .
for himself bron felt that there were far too many unanswered questions about the profitability of such a journey as this .
the battle of calis had been so long ago , surely the bitterness and enmity was better left alone than stirred up all over again .
his master would be better investing his time elsewhere , with some pretty little maid who thought that the sun rose and set at his command .
come to that he would not mind the chance of finding one of those himself .
bron wasnt entirely sure what his master expected to gain from his present course .
lord rand was of a secretive nature , a circumstance that had caused great friction between him and his father .
it had probably not helped that lord rand had spent part of his childhood at valrek with lord brogan and his son rafe .
lord brogan had not utilised the custom of sending his son to be fostered by another family , but had been happy to accept the sons of other thurls into his home .
along with lord rand , leofric , son to lord drogand , had spent part of his childhood at valrek .
so too had finan and evoric of gournay , lord gournays youngest sons .
there had been talk at the time that lord rand had been betrothed to lady esme of valrek , that her younger sister , aisly , would become betrothed to evoric of gournay .
however evoric had been killed at the battle of calis before any betrothal had been announced .
lord rand had never made any allusion to evorics death , or to his life at valrek .
bron had always wondered why .
was it because he had hated to spend his time within valreks walls ?
or was it because he had found his life richer there ?
bron did not know , nor was he likely to ask .
adele snuggled closer to chargers neck .
it was dark and so very cold , his warmth gave her comfort and her fingers entwined in his mane were the only thing keeping her from losing her seat .
around her the trees had thinned and they had entered a clearer , flatter terrain .
the moon shone brightly , illuminating the desolate landscape with ethereal light .
adele hardly noticed all she could think of was finn .
she wished that she could forget how it had felt to leave him behind , watching over her shoulder as his figure had become more and more indistinct .
what was happening to him now ?
no , she wasnt sure that that was something she wanted to think about .
would she ever see him again ?
she didnt really want to think about that either .
how had this happened ?
more importantly how would it end ?
she wished so desperately that lord rafe were present , then she could throw the burden of her worry upon his shoulders and find relief .
he would know what to do surely ?
maybe he could save finn from lord gradock ?
then again , it was lord rafe that lord gradock was incensed with .
with that in mind it seemed unfair to expect that lord rafe could do anything , it was an impossible position all round .
eda ?
what is it ?
do you suppose that we are still going in the right direction ?
for all i know we could be travelling in circles , sighed eda .
this is completely ridiculous i have not the faintest notion where we are , i am so tired i can hardly sit upright .
my head aches , along with other parts of my anatomy that i can not possibly mention .
tis dark and scary , and every time an owl hoots i almost fall from this horse , so why edas voice suddenly filled with tears .
why is it that all i can think of is what that dreadful man might be doing to finn , whilst we wander aimlessly around the country side doing very little to help ourselves or him !
adele reached out across the space that separated her mount from edas , and took her friends hand in her own .
tis all i can think of too .
eda wiped her tears away angrily .
so pathetic !
great goodness , i never knew how stupid i could be !
both women sat in silence for a moment , listening to the sounds of the forest .
what should we do ?
asked eda at length .
we have no way of knowing where we are we could have passed by merrodon and not known it .
finn said that we would be able to find our way .
he said that we should be there by night fall .
eda gestured hopelessly .
i see no village .
mercias border is close , what if we should cross it by accident ?
finn told us that we were not to stop , not until we had reached safety .
have you forgotten those who follow us ?
they must stop and have some respite too , adele .
just think if we rest , just for a little while , we could wait until morning and try to think of some plan .
adele was tempted it seemed so logical .
surely eda was right and that those on their trail needed rest also .
she felt so weary , the need to sleep weighed down her eyes and pulled on her whole body .
it seem that to lie down and rest just for a moment could not hurt .
adele shook herself awake .
finn had said to carry on , and if that is what finn had said , then it was what they must do .
she had enough faith in him to know that he was correct .
it is best that we do just as finn told us .
adele watched eda nod her head regretfully .
the moonlight hid the expression in her eyes but flooded her face , making her appear deathly pale .
adele felt that she was doing the right thing .
the thought of those following them , those who had attacked them that first night at the camp , filled her with a fear .
she snuggled into her cloak , pulling it up around her face to cover the tip of her ice cold nose .
her fingers were so chilled she could barely grip the rein .
they would have died that first night if it hadnt been for finn .
she remembered how fierce he had looked standing in the light from the fire , filled with such anger that it had seemed as though he and the flames had somehow been one .
adele frowned , such a statement seemed an exaggeration and yet , no matter how fanciful it sounded , that was how she felt .
in any case the fact remained that finn had saved her and edas lives .
they owed him their lives twice over , and it was a circumstance that she was determined to make lord rafe and everyone else aware of .
finn would have his glory , she only hoped that he would live to enjoy it .
adele bit her lip she wished she had not put that thought into words .
it brought tears to smart behind her eyelids .
she had realised before that finans life hung in the balance , but it had been unprocessed information hovering on the edge of her consciousness .
in giving it the form of a thought , she had taken away the detachment she had hitherto been able to feel when thinking of the danger he was in .
they travelled for some time without speaking , to adele it was the most miserable silence she had ever endured .
at first she didnt notice the change when it came , but suddenly she was aware that the noise of the horses hooves upon the ground was different .
adele searched her sleepy mind , trying to remember why it was important , and suddenly sat upright with a yell .
eda , can you hear ?
eda gazed at her friend in open worry , she had never seen adele hysterical but maybe the strain had been too much for her .
hear what ?
clip , clop , clip , clop !
replied adele , giggling in relief .
eda reined in her horse abruptly .
that is it , we have to stop !
tis too much you are tired and beginning to scare me .
adele caught edas arm as she made to dismount .
no , wait !
finn said that there would be a road , remember ?
he said that we would come across a stone road built by the romans , and that we should follow it because it would lead us to merrodon .
and ?
did you not hear ?
we have just come across it , the horses hooves began to make a different noise clip , clop ?
adeles voice trailed off , and she gazed at eda in an open plea for understanding .
eda was tired , confused , and slightly worried by adeles behaviour .
still she managed to grasp that suddenly , mercifully , not only did they now know where they were , but also how to proceed onto merrodon .
strangely enough though , however great her relief was , all she managed by way of rejoinder was to murmur a faint oh good .
adele looked rather taken aback .
yes , it it is pretty good , she replied , some of her exuberance disappearing .
we should reach merrodon without trouble now .
she leaned forwards over chargers neck .
we are almost there , boy .
i know you are tired but just a little longer and then you can rest .
adele straightened and turned back to eda , a sudden look of quiet determination settling over her features .
come , eda the sooner we make it to merrodon , the sooner we can tell lord rafe of all that has happened .
eda nodded her head in agreement and gathered valliants reins in her hands .
and the sooner we can help finn , eda finished quietly .
chapter sixteen finan gazed out into the mist .
it was early , a cold damp day of drizzle falling from invisible skies .
he shuddered involuntarily .
it was too silent , too still .
he couldnt see ten foot through the cloudiness that surrounded him , and he felt exposed , defenceless , and open to attack .
agitation churned in his stomach , and his hand moved to grip his sword in a clammy grasp .
tis just as well rafe is not here , came a languid voice from behind him .
he would be driven mad by such weather .
finan tensed and turned quickly .
leofric eyed his friends partly drawn sword .
finan cleared his throat uncomfortably , sliding the weapon back into its sheath .
he never could stand the damp , finan returned foolishly , a clumsy attempt to hide the nervousness that he had betrayed .
leofric had a cloak flung around his shoulders , and a steaming goblet in either hand .
finan accepted the beverage and inhaled its sweet aroma .
he says it demoralises the men in truth tis only that it pricks his impatience .
leofric watched his friends obvious unease from sharp eyes , but when he spoke it was with a light hearted laugh .
he is right i feel completely demoralised .
he gave finan a nudge .
what say we go and toast ourselves by the fire ?
not just yet .
leofric eyed his friend perspicaciously and then nodded , looking out into the mist .
for a moment both men were silent one with an anxiety that held a strange kind of panic , and the other with languid easiness .
eventually leofric leaned towards finan , his eyes never wavering from contemplation of the white cloudiness .
what is it that we are looking for ?
he whispered .
nothing .
i can see plenty of that .
finan forced a smile that he was obviously far from feeling .
do not pretend to be more of a fool than you already are , fricka .
me ?
replied leofric , affecting to be stung by such injustice .
this from the man who has spent the last hour staring out into the mists in search of nothing !
finan did not respond , and leofric dropped his attempt at cheering him .
come , finan , what is it ?
for the first time finan looked irritated by leofrics questioning .
nought that i can explain , he replied shortly .
tis only the mist , it unsettles me .
finan may not have wished to explain his feelings to his friend but it did not really matter , for leofric knew why finan was so agitated .
it was all on account of lord targhe .
for on just such a morning as this , sixteen years ago , evoric had died .
leofric had not been present at the battle of calis , being only a small boy at the time .
rafe had been the one to tell him all that had transpired that day , and in his pain rafes account had been graphic and without omitance .
it had been early , the mist had been present at first light .
evoric had joked that he wished it had remained dark , for then at least he had been able to hope that the morning would bring sunshine .
they had been stationed as lookouts , a small group of soldiers huddled around a fire .
at that point there had been no action , in fact there had still been hope that negotiation could be made .
rafe had said that although the night had been damp and cold , both he and evoric had enjoyed their first foray into camp life .
finan had watched over them in amusement , and jeered playfully at their inexperience from his own lofty five years seniority .
when the attack came it was as unexpected as it was fierce .
suddenly men had loomed up out of the white obscurity surrounding them , one of them grabbing evoric by the shoulder .
finan had lunged at his brothers attacker , and together they had rolled from sight .
one of the lookouts had managed to sound the alarm before an enemys blade had silenced him forever .
rafe had found his sword and turned to grapple with another phantom like shadow .
at his left he had seen evoric similarly engaged , but their exertions had carried them away from one another .
the next time rafe had seen evoric had been at the approach of dusk when he had all but stumbled over the boy where he lay in the mud .
finan rarely spoke of that day , but it had left a mark upon him that leofric knew he would always bear .
what was that ?
leofric started out of his reverie and watched as finan tilted his head .
i heard nothing .
finan lifted his hand , demanding silence , and stared out into the milky whiteness .
both men stood listening intently .
horses .
leofric shook his head .
i can not make out from which direction they are coming .
leofric heard the rasp of finans blade as he pulled it from the sheath at his side .
his friend had paled dramatically , and he flexed restless fingers against the hilt .
leofrics own hand came to rest on his sword , but he did not pull it free of its scabbard .
to his ears , the approaching hoof beats were tired of pace .
dim shapes began to emerge from obscurity , at first vague , nothing more than shadows .
as they came closer they took on the more recognisable form of horse and rider .
leofric had seen many strange things in his life but never before had he felt such a certainty that he must still be asleep and dreaming .
out of the mist came two ladies , one dark and the other fair , both tired , clinging sleepily to their mounts and possessing a great deal of ethereal beauty .
it seemed to leofrics befuddled mind that they and the suddenly enchanted whiteness were really one .
perhaps you could tell me , kind sir , in which direction merrodon lies ?
it was the fairer of the two that spoke , her voice warmly husky , the words slurred slightly with sleepiness .
her gaze fell briefly on finans sword but as she lifted her eyes to his face , leofric could see that they were free of fear and filled with a soft , untroubled peacefulness .
you have arrived at merrodon , my lady , responded finan , his voice a little shaky as he slid his sword back into its sheath .
perhaps i might direct you to your final destination ?
i seek lord rafe of valreks army , finan of gournay sent me .
leofric turned sharply in surprise .
he was just in time to see the colour flee from finans face , a circumstance he had rarely witnessed in his friend .
he realised , with an agility of mind that few knew he possessed , that there was before him a mystery .
it was equally clear to him that finan possessed an intimate understanding of the circumstances that had bought the two women to merrodon .
you are here , my lady , the camp is not fifty yards away .
finan faltered .
then i beg you will take me to lord rafe , i am lady adele of the house of berron .
finan heard a stifled gasp from leofric and a prickle of unease ran the length of his spine .
you wish to see lord rafe ?
yes , immediately .
finn said that he would be here , i need to speak with him .
finan seemed unable to respond and so leofric stepped into the breach .
where is er finn ?
for the first time the other lady spoke , her voice impatient .
that is why we must speak to lord rafe finn has been captured by lord gradock !
the reaction to this statement was not as dramatic as eda had thought it would be .
neither man made any noise or movement , but both stood stock still .
eda glanced nervously from one to the other and then across at adele .
i will see the men get ready , stated leofric quietly .
and i will see the ladies are comfortable and then join you , replied finan , forcing his words past bloodless lips .
leofric contemplated his friends horribly white face and the tension in his every limb .
you will be well ?
fetch the men .
finans voice was hollow .
leofric nodded and then turned and disappeared into the mist .
finan shook his head as if to clear some unpleasant thought from his mind , and stepped forwards to take the reins of both horses in his hand .
silently he lead them through the camp to his tent .
fraedric !
a page with brown hair and a liberal dusting of freckles appeared from inside the tent .
finan turned from helping adele and eda to dismount to speak to the boy .
adele took the opportunity to go to chargers head .
you did splendidly enjoy your rest , good boy .
take charger and valiant and see that they are fed and watered , mind that they are brushed down well , commanded finan of the freckle faced youth .
adeles eyes came to rest sharply on his face as he spoke these words , and a thoughtful expression entered her eyes .
finan turned to find her watching him with candid interest .
it unnerved him .
this way , my ladies .
the tent was not very large .
a makeshift bed lay opposite the entrance , and two rough chairs stood next to a welcoming fire that drew adele and eda towards its warmth like moths to a flame .
you are welcome to use these apartments , you look as though he checked .
that is , you must be tired .
druce will see to your needs .
druce !
there was a small disturbance by the door and then druce entered .
he paused on the threshold at the sight of two ladies in his masters tent .
yes , lord rafe ?
lord rafe !
eda gasped , her eyes sliding to where adele sat near the fire .
nothing in adeles manner betrayed surprise .
finan barely noticed edas outburst .
druce , see that both lady adele and lady eda have all that they need .
his words were hurried , and there could be no mistaking his desire to be gone .
you are going to aid finn ?
asked eda .
an awful bleakness entered his eyes .
yes , my lady , rest assured that all will be well .
the assurance was perfunctory and with a swift bow he was gone .
eda and adele remained silent after his hurried exit .
might i fetch a goblet of wine for you , my lady ?
asked druce shyly .
eda turned slightly dazed eyes upon him .
yes , by all means .
she laid a gentle hand on adeles shoulder .
would you care for some wine , adele ?
adele nodded absently , and druce saw a faint inflection of worry pass over edas face .
he had never been called upon to wait upon ladies before , excepted of course lady esme and lady aisly .
his masters sisters were inclined to treat him with the same amused and indulgent affection as lord rafe , so they hardly counted .
besides which he had known them forever .
druce had been lord rafes page from the early age of four when lord rafe had found him engaging in a brawl with another boy some years his senior .
the prize over which they had fought was an apple that had chanced to fall over the wall of the orchard .
druce had displayed a great deal of cunning .
as both boys , breathless from their exertions , had fallen apart to glare at each other in open hostility and pant out fierce taunts , it had become clear that druce could easily best his opponent with words even if , in the end , the other boys brute strength had won the tussle .
druce had taken his defeat philosophically , knowing that not every battle could be won .
lord rafe had achieved hero like status in the little boys eyes by riding alongside the wall and picking the reddest , biggest apple from the aforementioned apple tree , and giving it to the defeated party .
rafe had been amused by the childs pithy wisdom .
he had lifted druce upon chargers back and taken him home to his parents , giving the command that he was to be brought to the hall on the morrow to serve as a page .
ever since druce had travelled in lord rafes train .
he had made it his business to know how lord rafe liked things done , that it might be him that his master called for and not one of the other pages .
it was , therefore , with complete certainty that druce knew that lord rafe had never before entertained women in his camp .
druce felt a little unsure of them , wondering what they could be doing here .
it was a conundrum he did not have the answer to and so , with a shrug of his shoulders , he hurried away to procure their wine .
adele ?
edas voice was hesitant .
adele did not answer at first , but gazed into the depths of the fire .
twas not how i expected it to be , she mused at last .
in a way twas better , for i always feared that there would be a great deal of awkwardness between us .
as it was there was little time for awkwardness , was there ?
or for anything .
are you alright ?
alright ?
asked adele surprised .
why should i not be ?
i i just thought adele smiled .
come , eda i have been preparing all my life for this moment , tis not so strange for me as you seem to think .
they were silent for a time until eda , filled with curiosity , asked the question she had been longing to ask ever since lord rafe had left them .
what did you think of him ?
we hardly spoke , eda .
but you must have thought something .
adele was silent , a thoughtful crease between her brows .
i thought that he was not so tall as finn .
eda snorted .
well if that is not just like you !
she exclaimed .
finally you meet him and all that you have to say of him was that he was not so tall as finn ?
what more do you wish me to say ?
i do not know .
that you liked him , that you thought him kind anything but that which you did say !
eda , i already know that lord rafe is kind and that i shall like him .
i knew that before i came here from reading his letters .
you can hardly expect me to draw any conclusions on the short exchange that passed between us .
at that moment druce returned , bearing their refreshment .
adele had not really noticed his presence before , but now she smiled at him gently .
what did you say your name was ?
she asked .
druce , young though he was , was not impervious to her quiet charm .
he relaxed a little , the half anxious frown disappearing from his chubby face .
druce , my lady .
mine is adele , this is my friend eda .
druce bowed formally to each of them in turn .
he was not acquainted with all of the facts , but he was aware , as was everyone , that lord rafe was betrothed to lady adele of berron .
he also knew that when lord rafe had left valrek it had been to fetch lady adele .
his quick mind , connecting the fact that lord rafe was not with the ladies , to the expression of worry on master finans face , realised that something was wrong .
please , my lady , you were travelling with a soldier from valrek , were you not ?
yes do you know finn , druce ?
asked adele .
druce nodded his head , gulping .
please , my lady , where is he ?
the little boys voice trembled and adele turned to eda , her eyes wide with hesitation .
please tell me , my lady .
why has lord rafe had to leave to fetch him what has befallen him ?
druces hand was tight on adeles arm , and she covered it gently with her own .
he was detained on lord gradocks lands .
druce paled and his eyes filled with tears .
he knew the danger that lord rafe was in .
if he had been caught on lord gradocks lands there would be fighting druce suddenly wished that he were older that he too could ride to his masters rescue .
adele watched the little boy tremble , and felt tears welling up in her own eyes .
she reached out and pulled him to rest his head against her shoulder .
do not worry , druce , lord rafe will see that it is alright .
druce shook his head , but could not tell her why he feared that it was not possible to settle matters as easily as that .
chapter seventeen finan strode through the camp , his mind filled with worry .
if gradock had rafe , was it possible that he would hand him back unharmed ?
the gradock family were known for their fiery temper , and lord gradocks was particularly vengeful .
finan blanched at the thought .
the men are ready , finan .
leofric emerged out of the mist .
his face was grim , completely different from the usual genial expression that resided there .
it made him appear much older .
good .
finan took the reins from the boy who held his horse and swung up onto its back , giving the command to get under way .
what do you expect to find , finan ?
asked leofric quietly .
pray , fricka , more fervently than ever you have before .
leofric nodded , both knew that the chances of rafe still being alive were slim at best .
old lord gradock was still smarting from king ines request , no , demand , that the matter between him and rafe be settled with money rather than blood .
there was little hope and leofric knew that .
so why was he finding it so hard to believe that rafe was probably already dead ?
he had engaged in enough battles to have had the idealism that he had once possessed stripped away .
he knew the odds , he wasnt nave , and he had learnt long ago the penalties of the lives that they led .
they had only reached the outskirts of the camp when leofric raised his hand to still the men .
what is it ?
leofric looked anxious and shook his head .
i do not know i thought i heard something .
what ?
i am not sure .
we have no time for this , fricka .
you think i do not know that ?
leofric demanded .
finan shook his head and sat motionless , listening as well .
after a while he turned sharply .
horses .
leofric nodded .
and coming from different directions .
as finan spoke he was pulling his sword free of its sheath .
leofric watched the movement , sensing the tension that hid beneath his calm exterior , before turning his eyes back to the thick whiteness before them .
rafe moved quickly he knew that his pursuers were close and once again was grateful for the covering mist .
he could hear the sound of horses , not only behind him , but also hemming him in on each side .
he knew that only three men had followed him and had surmised that the rest had followed eda and adeles tracks .
they would come from an eastern direction , and would therefore be the riders on his left .
but who were the mounted men on his right ?
rafe watched the two groups of horsemen on each side of him halt some distance from each other , and saw each man reach for his sword .
who are you and what business do you have here ?
it was finans voice breaking the silence , its timbre challenging .
rafe heaved a large sigh and cautiously made his way toward the huge animal that finan was astride .
belatedly he recognised the beast as his friends favourite horse , brute .
tis a question i have been burning to ask these three days .
finans head jerked sharply in his direction , and rafe saw a wave of barely contained relief flood his friends face .
rafe ?
finan , the ladies ?
safe and sound , at this very moment resting in your tent .
rafe leaned against finans horse in relief .
thank goodness for that !
where have you been , rafe , we heard that you had run into trouble on gradocks lands .
it was leofrics voice , and rafe peered past finan at such an unexpected visitor to his camp .
fricka ?
what are you doing here ?
i could ask you the same thing , finn , returned leofric dryly .
rafes eyes locked on his .
he would never know how leofric managed to grasp the facts of a situation so quickly .
he greatly envied the way leofric was able to disconcert his adversaries so efficiently , before calmly taking the upper hand .
rafe ignored the hit , and turned toward the two groups of riders that had now merged and stood silently across from them .
why have you been following me ?
he kept his tone reasonable , yet there was confidence behind his words .
he had not drawn his sword , but his men had and they were not to be ignored lightly .
one man urged his horse forwards , breaking rank with the other riders , and coming closer to where rafe stood .
it took rafe no more than a second to recognise him .
rand .
hello , rafe .
i should have known that it was you of course .
rands pale blue eyes moved to take in the two mounted men to either side of him .
finan and leofric too some things never change .
and the apple never falls far from the tree , responded leofric smoothly .
you are a long way from mercia , rand , take my advice and leave wessex while you still may .
not before i have accomplished that which i came for , replied rand firmly .
and what would that be ?
i came for adele .
for a second the silence was deafening .
no one moved , no one spoke , for a second it seemed as though no one dared to breathe .
then with a suddenness that took all by surprise , rafe dragged rand from his horse .
rand struggled to gain his balance as he hit the floor , and tried to disentangle himself from rafes strong grip .
they swayed slightly and then landed , a flailing mass of limbs , in the mud .
their struggling was fierce , and very soon both were covered in wet soil .
rafe felt his hold slip and rand fell back onto the floor , breaking apart , and both men scrambled to their feet , only to engage again .
not one of their men felt that interrupting the bout would be welcomed by either party .
they sat , silent and still , their attention halved between the fight and each other .
though no sound was made , the intelligence that an altercation was taking place on the outskirts of the camp soon became known to those within .
eventually adele and eda , led by druce , arrived to see what the whispering was all about .
finan saw them and , cursing the entire race of women for their curious nature , forced his horse through the crowd that had gathered .
lady adele , this is no place for women go back to the tent at once !
any one of the men in valreks army could have told her that when master finan used that tone , argument was not only foolish but unsafe .
adele did worse than argue , she ignored .
for goodness sake , will you not end it ?
tis a matter between those two men .
tis not my argument , or yours to involve yourself in go back to the tent , replied finan shortly .
adeles eyes met his , glowing softly with an emotion it took him several seconds to place .
it was disappointment .
finan was taken so much by surprise that he did not call a man to take them back , forcibly if necessary , to the tent , but sat staring down at her .
he felt suddenly that he had come up lacking somehow .
it is not your argument so you will allow them to beat what little sense they possess out of each other ?
as she turned she caught sight of the principals in the argument more clearly and turned white .
before finan knew what she was about she had moved forwards , thrusting her way between the crowd .
her diminutive figure was interestingly conspicuous among the brawny , battle toughened men all around .
she passed them without a glance , and ran into the circle that the soldiers had made around the two fighting men .
adele didnt check as she slipped on the mud , but quickly made her way to where rafe was seated on the unfortunate rand of targhe .
desist !
adele caught rafes arm as he brought it back to deliver another blow .
please , finn , stop !
he paused , looking up at her blankly as if wondering where she had sprung from .
rand , seeing that rafes attention was thus diverted , landed a well aimed punch .
rafe fell backwards and rand struggled to his feet , lunging forwards to where rafe was attempting to rise .
he halted sharply as adele caught his ear and squeezed none too gently .
letting out a yelp , he turned to look down at her flushed face .
what do you think you are doing , randwulf ?
no , adele , please , not the ear adele dropped her hold on him , the movement betraying her distaste and fury .
what are you doing here ?
making sure you are safe , responded rand sulkily .
well i am , perfectly , which is more than will be said of you when i am finished !
what did you think that you were doing hitting finn when he was defenceless ?
somewhat less than honourable and very much less than i would have expected of you , randwulf !
rafe had stood , wiping the mud from his face , but at this utterance his eyes sharpened and met rands .
randwulf ?
rafe paused significantly .
i have heard a great deal about you , randwulf .
both men sized each other up meassuringly .
strange , for i have heard nothing of you , finn , replied rand coolly .
both men were silent for a moment , and when rand next spoke his voice held an unmistakable warning .
you have as much .
he lifted his hand to push a strand of adeles hair back from her face .
if not more , to lose .
his action was designed to provoke , and rafes hands clenched into fists .
he found it took all his restraint to keep from lunging at rand again .
as it was he had the satisfaction of seeing adele slap rands hand away .
adele was sure that the conversation had more than its surface meaning .
she could sense a wariness in rand that she had never before seen in him , and rafe was pale , but not with shock , anger spilled like fire from his eyes .
there was something she didnt understand , something very important connecting the two men .
such an intensity of feeling as was between them was impossible between strangers .
adele , take eda and go back to the tent , one of the men will take you .
rafes eyes never left rand .
finn ?
rafe turned to her and saw worry in her eyes .
some of the bitterness and sternness that had scared her disappeared , and he smiled reassuringly .
he looked suddenly , with mud smeared across his cheek and in his hair , boyish and unthreatening .
go , adele do not fear that i shall try to break randwulfs head .
go back to the tent and rest .
the worry left adeles face immediately , but she turned to rand a little warily .
i know , adele , i know .
some of the stiffness left rands rigid features and he smiled .
i promise i will not lay a hand on him .
good , for tis you who would probably come off the loser , you clumsy great oaf !
rand smiled a little more naturally at this provoking statement , but as his gaze took in eda , hanging back amid the crowd , his expression became expressionless once more .
eda is here i see .
rand tuned back to adele , lifting her hand briefly to his lips .
she will see you are comfortable .
adele nodded and cast a last uncertain glance at each of them before turning to leave .
rafe waited until she and eda had disappeared into the mist before addressing rand once more .
if adele had seen his face then she would not have felt so easy of mind .
what do you want , rand ?
just a little of your time .
rafe was silent for a few moments before finally lifting his hand to his eyes and rubbing them wearily .
very well .
rafe ?
a few moments of our time is not unreasonable , leofric , responded rafe .
however , know this , rand you and your men are to relinquish your weapons when you wish to enter my camp .
they will be returned to you when you leave .
rand stiffened , he had heard the mistrust , the disgust that had coloured rafes voice with the obvious belief that he , rand , was a dog , fit for nothing but a leash .
his hand clenched on his sword and he jerked it roughly from its sheath , flinging it to the ground .
it landed , its blade buried six inches into the soil , between rafes feet .
rafe didnt flinch .
he looked down at the still quivering blade with a faintly amused gleam in his eyes that infuriated rand even more .
we can talk in my tent , he suggested mildly .
no you can not , interrupted leofric .
that would mean that lady adele would be present , and i do not think rafe slapped a hand to his head .
i had forgotten .
you must have designated quarters here , fricka , where are they ?
come , i will show you .
leofric turned and finan followed him , rand stood undecided .
after you , randwulf , invited rafe laconically .
rand nodded stiffly and gestured to bron that he should follow also .
chapter eighteen they were a silent procession , each man ill at ease .
rafe was uncomfortable in the knowledge that whatever it was that rand wanted , he had a certain amount of leverage .
rand knew that adele thought him to be finan .
still , he had the same information concerning rand , but was it really worth anything ?
after all , what use was the deception to rand now that adele was here where rafe could protect her ?
surely the threat of exposure could mean nothing to him now .
it mattered not whether adele knew he was lord targhes son , as rafe was hardly likely to let rand get close to her and into a position where the deception would be of help to him .
rafe took another look at rand .
the last time he had seen him rand had been an eleven year old boy .
strange that even though sixteen years had passed since that day , he would have known him anywhere .
he seemed just the same taller and older , but still recognisable as his old playfellow .
bitterly rafe reflected on this last thought playfellow .
how much his playfellow had rand really been ?
they had lived together , played together , trained together himself , rand , finan , leofric , and evoric .
they had been friends , or so he had thought .
the truth was not so comfortable .
rand had left valrek with his father , and nine days later lord targhe had attacked calis .
rand had fought at his fathers side .
rafe knew that he would never forget how it had felt to draw up in battle , and see the face of a friend among those of his foes .
nor would he forget the bitterness that had welled up within his heart as he had kneeled beside evoric .
bitterness against the house of berron as well as that of targhe , that their argument had caused him loss .
they arrived outside leofrics quarters and filed inside .
it was not a large tent and , as leofric spent most of his time with finan , it was deserted without even the warmth of a fire .
rafe made his way to the nearest chair and slumped into it .
he hadnt rested in all his journey from gradock , being far too fearful for adeles safety and all too aware that he was being followed .
now , without the desperation and anxiety pumping through his veins , he was incredibly tired .
for a moment he closed his eyes , leaning his head back against the chair .
what do you want , rand ?
other than adele , for she is already taken .
rand seated himself comfortably before answering .
to end this foolishness .
speak plainly , rand , i am tired .
i wish to finish the feud between our families once and for all , responded rand .
tis ridiculous and has gone on long enough .
i think that a feud to which a great many people have lost their lives , is a little more than foolish or ridiculous , interposed finan quietly .
rand lifted his hand in a placating gesture .
you are right those dead deserve better than that .
he looked again at rafe .
they deserve that their lives should mean something , they should be the means to end this .
rafe was silent for a moment .
you expect me to believe that ?
he asked at length .
you betrayed me , rand , you betrayed us all !
rafe paused trying to swallow the bitterness that threatened to choke him .
you even betrayed evoric !
enough !
never say that !
you have no idea what i did and why i did it !
do not dare to use evoric against me , he was my friend as well as yours .
some friend !
responded rafe bitingly .
rand leapt forward with a bellow and was met by an enthusiastic rafe , they struggled dangerously together in the centre of the tent until leofric and finan pulled them apart .
i do not care what you want , rand , panted rafe .
i care not what right you think you have in regard to adele , but i swear that if you ever go near her again , i will kill you .
rand wrenched himself from finans hold and sat back down in his seat .
i suggest you be a little more careful with your ultimata , finn !
rafe struggled furiously , but leofric maintained his hold .
be still , rafe !
his friends voice seemed to penetrate the fog of rage around rafes brain , and he stopped his struggling .
leofric waited until he felt rafe cease in his struggles before releasing him and turning to rand .
why should we believe that you mean peace when you threaten us ?
you have little choice , replied rand .
i think you will find we have every choice .
finans voice was calm .
if it had not been for us you would be dead , and lady adele would have fallen into the hands of your enemies .
every one turned to look at bron in surprise , having entirely forgotten his presence .
and how did you reach that conclusion ?
demanded rafe .
that first night you camped , if it had not been for our rescuing you from your assailants , you would have fallen .
for a second the tent was silent and then rafe turned to meet rands eyes .
is that true ?
do you really doubt it ?
no he didnt , he wished he could but it fitted far too well .
it was why rand had never harassed them afterwards but only followed he had not been the one to attack them in the first place .
rafe had known it , had known that somewhere something was strange .
he should not have been able to hold his assailants off long enough to escape , and those assailants must then surely have followed and captured them .
they would have done precisely that had not rand engaged them , and allowed rafe and the ladies to escape .
it was that which had puzzled him , and rands explanation made everything clear .
how did you know where adele was ?
he asked abruptly .
it took me years to find her , she was seven before i did .
rafe noticed that he had not really answered the question put to him , but allowed the matter to drop .
you should not have been able to find her at all , no matter how long or hard you tried , replied rafe roughly .
if i had wanted to kill her i would have done so long ago , and there would have been nought you could do about it , stated rand .
that is not what this is about .
rafe knew it was true but somehow could not bring himself to admit it .
every time he tried all he could see was evoric , the destruction wrought on calis , and rand seated upon a chestnut mount beside his father .
nausea swept over him .
then what is this about ?
what do you want , rand ?
asked leofric .
i told you i want peace .
why ?
rand seemed taken aback .
do you not think it is time this ended ?
it matters not what i think , replied leofric .
why do you wish for peace ?
as i recall it was not so important to you once .
it is important to me now , replied rand stiffly .
that is what troubles me .
leofrics face was uncharacteristically sombre .
without his habitual smile he seemed cold and unfriendly .
what difficulties have you gotten yourself into that you suddenly need a friend on this side of the border ?
i suppose you would not believe that no such trouble exists ?
leofric shook his head .
nevertheless you will find that it is true my only wish is to bring comfort to adele .
she has no need of your comfort !
interjected rafe furiously .
she is my cousin , responded rand with heat , and she may be pleased to find that she has family .
she has no need of you my family has been hers these sixteen years .
yes , i have seen how much of a family you have been to her !
that is enough !
reprimanded leofric , pushing the still standing rafe back into his seat even as he clenched his fists as if ready to do battle with rand again .
considering that your family slaughtered hers , rand , i think this is hardly a subject on which you could be considered to have freedom of speech .
rafe has safeguarded adele and provided for her for sixteen years .
he took on a responsibility that was not his own , and which he would never have needed to assume if it had not been for you and your familys actions .
i think it would be as well if you remembered that .
how could i forget it ?
replied rand bitterly .
every moment of every day i am reminded of the things my family has done .
do not try to distance yourself from it !
rafes knuckles showed white as he gripped the arms of his chair .
you were there !
you fought against us , rand , your friends whom you had lived with in brotherhood !
you forsook us !
i was a boy of eleven , rafe , answered rand , i knew nothing of what my father planned .
all i knew was that he stood before me , demanding my allegiance , allegiance that i had to give , surely you must see that ?
twas not until later that i found what my father had done , and even then there was nought i could do .
you could have come back to us .
it was finan who answered him , his voice low and his gaze steady .
rand seemed surprised by his words , as though it had never crossed his mind that they would accept him back .
and desert my mother and sister ?
his voice was rough .
leave them to the madman that my father had become ?
do you think i could have lived with that ?
and what of the men ?
they had no choice but to obey my fathers command .
they were put in harms way on account of his hatred , i had to do what i could for them .
however , do not think that it was easy for me .
i was torn by conflicting loyalties , and suffered agonies of which you know nothing .
all were silent as he finished speaking , trying to sort through the various feelings and suspicions brought to the surface by his speech .
rafe wished to believe all that he had said but could not overcome , in just a few moments , the hurt and mistrust of sixteen years .
finan was perhaps the most divided as he remembered evoric .
it was leofric who held the enviable position of most detachment he too had loved evoric , but then he had held rand in the same affection .
leofric was the only one of those present who had not beheld the horrors of calis , and therefore the bitterness that the others felt had not been seared upon his mind in the same way .
you said earlier that you had followed adele because you wanted to be sure she was safe on the journey to valrek .
it was finan who spoke .
is she still in danger from your father ?
my father has been dead these four years .
then who ?
rand wrinkled his brow .
the truth is that i do not know exactly .
my father and i were acknowledged by all of mercia to have differing opinions on most things , especially the events that had taken place at calis .
king aethelbalds son penda and i had become friends .
he was the only person who knew that i visited adele , no one else .
one day he came to me to tell me that he had overheard his father discussing the fact that a thurl from wessex wished to allege himself with mercia in much the same way my father had .
i do not know who the lord is , penda could not find out , but he wishes to kill rafe .
i believe he means to harm adele too .
the men who attacked us at the first camp ?
asked rafe .
i believe so .
rafe was silent for a moment .
someone from wessex wishes me dead ?
rand nodded .
then the only thing we can do is form a truce .
at leofrics words all looked toward him in much surprise .
it seems that we all wish to keep lady adele safe , and that we can not trust anyone else on either side of the border .
rafe nodded bemusedly in agreement , but when he turned to rand it was with a lingering frown .
you will set up camp outside my perimeters , and you and your men will continue to leave your weapons whenever you wish to enter in among us .
if that is what you wish .
it is if you truly do have adeles safety at heart , then you will understand that it is my wish to keep her away from risk that prompts me to ask this .
very well is that all ?
we also have another problem , interjected leofric .
what is that ?
a small matter of finn and randwulf .
leofric quirked an eyebrow in finans direction .
and of course , not forgetting , lord rafe .
rafe groaned and ran a weary hand across his forehead .
i had forgotten about that , he admitted .
although rand and i are in something of a predicament , there is no need for her to think that finan is lord rafe .
it would be best if he kept out of her way .
finan lifted a hand , his face losing some of its colour .
finan , you did not surely ?
no , i did not !
replied finan stung .
but you did inform druce that he was to call me lord rafe while we are here .
i had not time to stop him !
rafe clutched at his hair distractedly .
there must be some way around this !
there was a way around it , replied finan evenly .
i should have told you that i would have no part in this foolish scheme of yours .
finan surely you would not have left me so entirely ?
yes , i would , answered finan unmoved .
if i had known then what i know now , i would never have embroiled myself in this mess .
do you have any idea of the things i have been through ?
with lord merrodon trying to force my hand so that i might settle in his favour , and lord coughly refusing even to try and negotiate ?
all of this i had to keep from fricka .
now , to crown all , i find myself playing bridegroom , a part i am singularly ill fit to play , to your bride !
rafe looked a little surprised as these activities were listed to him .
tis perhaps not the best scheme i have ever had , i own , he admitted , looking a little sheepish .
then he smiled .
you had best not let me catch you playing the bridegroom to adele , finan !
finan choked over the words that flooded to his lips .
he does have a point though , rafe .
had you better not tell lady adele the truth ?
suggested leofric .
rafes eyes snapped into a rather cold focus .
perhaps it would be best if you left the care of my bride to me , fricka ?
he asked softly .
leofric realised that he had overstepped his place , and gave an apologetic grin .
very well , but allow me to say this .
his eyes twinkled as he let out a low whistle .
you are a fortunate dog !
rafe shook his head .
leofric was the only person he knew who could have him laughing after he had just incensed him greatly .
i have one other question , broke in finan .
lady adele said that you had been captured by lord gradock .
she was correct .
finan looked confused and it was leofric who continued , his voice filled with surprise .
but how did you manage to escape ?
i did not , rafe answered .
lord gradock let me go .
leofric spluttered incoherently , and some seconds elapsed whilst finan slapped him on the back .
lord gradock let you go ?
lord gradock ?
asked finan .
the man loathes and detests you why would he let you go ?
i should have made it plain that it was the new lord gradock .
great goodness , bertolf ?
exclaimed rand .
the room was suddenly silent and rand , seeing the exchanged looks of the others , began to experience the uncomfortable sensation of ignorance .
bertolf is dead , tis his brother daegmund who rules as lord gradock .
and he ?
began leofric .
rafe shook his head , his eyes travelling for an infinitesimal second to where rand stood .
the gesture was slight , but leofric saw it immediately and ceased his line of questioning .
i think we have discussed the most pressing of the circumstances that face us .
rafe turned to rand .
it would be best if you went back to your men , you need to set up camp before nightfall .
but i wish to speak to adele before i go !
you have said all that you need for today , she is very tired and so is eda .
i will not have them disturbed further .
rand knew that it was a perfectly reasonable sentiment , but still felt that a few words with adele would have settled his mind considerably .
who knew what rafe might say to them while he was not there to hear .
rafe knew the source of rands reluctance and shrugged .
do not worry that i shall try to poison their minds against you .
for one thing it would not work , and i would only succeed in looking foolish .
for another , i shall not have time i also need to rest .
rand nodded grudgingly .
then i suppose there is nought for it but to retire to my own camp .
he stood , glanced around the room , and gave a nod before disappearing thought the tent flap .
he left the tent in silence .
rafe had again closed his eyes and leant his head back against the chair .
finan had moved into the seat rand had vacated , and his face was studiously devoid of expression .
it fell to leofric to pass the first comment in the conversation that must necessarily follow rands departure .
he was shorter than i remember him , he remarked casually .
rafe gave a shout of laughter , and finan lifted his eyes heavenward , shaking his head .
had he been a veritable goliath he would have seemed shorter than you remember .
leofric took this allusion to his lack of stature in childhood in good part .
it was easy to when adolescence had brought him the inches he had so coveted when growing up amongst his much older friends .
after a few moments rafes smile faded , and they all fell back into an uncomfortable silence .
there was so much to be said , or maybe that was wrong and there was actually nothing to say .
what help could there be in sharing the bitter thoughts in their minds ?
rafe closed his eyes .
suppose he believed all that rand had told him , did it make that much difference ?
if he could forgive , would he ever be able to forget ?
his stomach heaved .
no , he would never be able to forget .
perhaps it would even be wrong to do so .
his story seems plausible to me , rafe , mused leofric .
however only you know if it fits his actions in following you .
rafe paused thoughtfully for a moment .
it fits .
his voice was almost begrudging but after a moment he spoke again , his natural honesty needing to see fair play .
the truth is it fits too well for him to be lying .
what do you say , finan ?
asked leofric gently .
finan was silent , continuing to stare at the hands he held clasped so tightly together in front of him that they were by turns white and red .
he knew what they were asking , after all evoric had been his brother .
he wished he could give them that which they so evidently wanted .
they always made their decisions as a unit , and rafe would not wish to do anything without first hearing his and leofrics thoughts .
rafe always said that together they could see the situation clearer , without the prejudices that just one experienced .
i am sorry i can not give you an opinion .
he looked up to find two pairs of anxious eyes upon him .
whatever i say , i can not but be swayed by personal feelings .
i think then , that it would be best if i say nothing .
if that is how you feel , finan , you know i will not force you , answered rafe .
i do not need to tell you how much your help will be missed , but i understand that for you it is much harder than the rest of us .
i know how much you miss evoric .
finan swallowed rather convulsively , and looked down again at his clenched hands .
how much did he miss evoric ?
somehow it was difficult to measure .
evorics loss had made such an impact on his life , on all of their lives .
finan had never been able to forget that , at its heart , the war to which he had lost his brother had been fought over a woman .
he had kept clear of women ever since .
he disliked the ease with which they caused trouble between each other , between vying suitors , and even upon occasion between kingdoms .
the thought that they could bring two men who had hitherto lived in perfect harmony and accord to murderous hatred , was one he found difficult to pardon .
he knew calis had embittered rafe against not only the family of targhe but also the house of berron , and against lady adele too .
she had been forced upon him , a responsibility that was not really his , not that he had minded that part of it .
rafe would have done anything to help someone in need , it wasnt that which he resented .
it was that adele was a constant reminder of evorics death .
he would not have been so unjust as to blame her for it , but it didnt change the fact that every time he had thought of her it had brought back the pain of loss .
as for leofric , even though he was only a boy at the time and didnt understand all of that which was happening , he had known that his friends were distressed and that evoric had gone into battle but not returned .
he had spent his days trying to cheer them behaving in the most foolish and sometimes dangerous manner , just to jolt them into some sort of action .
he had hidden his own sadness from them as much as he could , not wishing to burden them with anything more .
however , it only occurred to him now to wonder what the impact had been on rands life .
to know your father had murdered an entire family for the sake of an old feud was bad enough , to then find that one of your best friends had lost his life fighting against the side that you yourself had fought on , must have been a punishing blow .
added to that rand had needed to stay subject to the man that had started it all , a man whom he had lost all respect and liking for .
he had been too young to do anything but leave , yet could not abandon his sister and mother to a madman , even if he could have left the pride of a noble name and lands .
leofric stepped forward and placed a comforting hand on his friends shoulder .
he didnt know what finans thoughts had been , but he had seen the troubled expression on his face .
what did happen at gradock , rafe ?
he asked , attempting to turn the conversation to less emotive lines .
daegmund had succeeded his father as lord of gradock , and so i was safe .
i do not see how that made much difference .
daegmund is known to have more than his fair share of the gradock temper , not to mention the gradock pride .
rafe struggled uncomfortably within himself as he listened to leofrics words .
daegmund had been fair confusing perhaps , but fair .
there were many men that rafe could have named who , presented with the same circumstances , would have killed him without a second thought .
daegmund had been reasonable and , despite ample opportunity , had stuck to the somewhat unconventional code by which he lived .
daegmund is not so very like the rest of the gradock family , fricka .
his actions were in the interests of peace .
peace ?
what gradock ever wanted peace ?
asked finan .
people can not help the name they are born to , finan , replied rafe , it does not define them .
whether their name is gradock or targhe , interposed leofric .
rafes brow creased and the troubled looked on his face deepened .
that is not the same , fricka .
tis close enough !
replied leofric .
he is right .
both men turned in surprise to finan .
rand may be a targhe , but that does not mean that he is the same as his father .
finans pale eyes met those of his friends .
his reasons for his behaviour were honourable .
before rafe could answer there was a commotion at the tent opening .
lord rafe !
all three men turned to stare at the small figure that rushed through the aperture of the tent and into rafes arms .
what is it , druce ?
asked lord rafe .
what has happened ?
druce gulped as rafe held him away a little .
lady adele said that you had been captured !
rafes fingers stiffened convulsively , digging into druces shoulders .
druce , you did not tell lady adele that i was lord rafe , did you ?
druces face took on a warm flush of indignation .
no , master !
you told me that while at merrodon i was to call master finan , lord rafe .
rafe looked relieved for a moment before a frown settled on his brow .
well i am here now , druce , and everything can go back to normal , but not with lady adele and lady eda .
to them i am still finan and that is how you will address me to them .
druce looked confused .
if that is what you wish , lord rafe .
that is what i most fervently wish , for now , answered rafe , rubbing a weary hand across his eyes .
druce observed the action with a certain amount of anxiety in his face .
are you well , master ?
he asked presently .
for lady adele did say that you had been captured on gradock lands she cried !
i am fine , druce , tis only rafe stopped suddenly .
what did you say ?
druces brow puckered .
that lady adele said that no , no after that .
you mean that she cried ?
the boy asked .
with lord rafes attention so firmly fixed upon him , druce began to forget the fear that he had felt for his masters safety and proceed to posture importantly .
she cried ever such a lot , master , and even before she cried she looked druces voice trailed off , he having no words to describe the mix of emotions that had engrossed adele in her silence .
she was unhappy , druce ?
prompted rafe .
no maybe a little ?
he corrected himself .
at first she did not speak .
lady eda was worried i think , she kept asking her if she wanted anything .
and then later i heard them talking about you .
about me ?
asked rafe .
druce leaned his head to one side .
maybe lady eda was asking what she thought of lord rafe .
great goodness !
finan groaned , realising that they must have been referring to him .
if he had known that the few words that he had spoken were going to be of such interest to the ladies , to be studied later in great detail , he would not have said so much .
not that he could accurately remember that which he had said .
what did lady adele say ?
asked rafe .
druce pressed both his hands over his mouth , hiding the smile that sprung to his lips .
she said you were taller .
rafe smiled it seemed such a typical thing for adele to have said .
and then what happened ?
then lady eda said that she was asking whether lady adele had liked you .
lord rafe , corrected rafe .
druce looked momentarily confused and then continued on .
and then lady adele said she could not tell anything from a few moments conversation , but that she already knew she was going to like you i mean lord rafe .
it was rafes turn to look astonished .
did she say how ?
she said she could tell by your letters , pronounced druce triumphantly .
i thought you said she did not know it was you who wrote to her ?
reminded finan .
she did not , she could not !
then perhaps the child misheard .
i am little , not stupid !
answered druce , pulling himself to his full height and looking very indignant .
i managed to hear the rest right , did i not ?
leofric began to laugh .
what ails you ?
asked finan with a touch of gruffness .
nothing , tis merely that i like your choice of spy , rafe !
rafe laughed and looked down at druce fondly .
go then , druce , we shall resume this highly interesting conversation later , but for now rafe smiled apologetically across to leofric .
i am afraid i shall have to commandeer your bed , fricka , i believe mine is already occupied .
would you care for something to eat , master ?
or drink ?
asked druce anxiously .
rafe shook his head .
later , now i just need to sleep .
rafe made his way to the palette and druce , darting in front of him , pulled back the covering of furs and rug .
rafe laid a hand on the boys shoulder , giving him a slight smile as he removed his cloak and cast himself on the bed .
druce carefully covered him , tucking the covers around his masters weary form , before moving to set a fire in the centre of the tent .
we shall leave you then , rafe , you seem to be in capable hands , smiled leofric .
rafe gave a grunt that left its meaning open to interpretation , and leofric and finan left the tent .
take good care of him , druce .
yes , master finan .
the little boy was intent upon his task and did not look up .
a few moments later he had a good blaze going , and he moved to where rafe had discarded his cloak .
pulling up a chair nearer the fire , he spread the cloak to dry .
what would i do without you to look after me , druce ?
asked rafes sleepy voice .
catch cold , replied druce promptly .
finan and leofric , some yards distant from the tent , heard rafe laugh and smiled .
chapter nineteen are we certain that this information is correct ?
asked lord kyule , his voice a little doubtful .
i have heard nothing of this .
considering the fact that i have assigned you the task of discovering plots such as these , i suggest you be more silent over your ignorance , kyule .
the reminder of your incompetence puts me in no good humour with you , responded king ine sharply .
lord kyules expression did not alter , his eyes continued to stare at those gathered with the faintly glassy expression that was usual for him .
it seems then that we should prepare for war .
lord drogand looked rather pleased at this prospect .
lord brogan frowned in disapproval .
in his opinion war was the final stand , reached only when every other path had been exhausted .
kent and mercia have always been enemies , responded lord kyule .
such enmity will not disappear overnight .
any agreement that might be reached can not be imagined to be anything but short lived .
lord drogand snorted .
even enemies can find unity in a common cause .
king ine twisted his beard around his finger .
what do you think , brogan ?
lord brogan was silent , weighing each word carefully before he spoke it .
if there really are plans to unite mercia and kent , there are ways to foil them that do not involve war .
how do you propose to do that ?
at this point in proceedings , when trust is fragile , it would be easy to plant the seeds of dissention without any need for fighting .
you always seem to think it is better to avoid conflict , grumbled lord drogand .
that is because conflict is a failure to settle things reasonably , answered lord brogan .
you can not reason with kent !
scoffed lord drogand .
they are not to be trusted .
words , i have no doubt , that have been echoed in some form or other , kingdoms over , replied lord brogan .
nevertheless someone has to be the first to offer the trust of negotiation .
and to look the fool when trust is repaid by deceit , returned lord drogand .
i agree with lord brogan , interjected lord kyule .
an act of war on kent could strengthen the bond between them and mercia , in which case we would find ourselves at war with both .
and tis not certain that we would be victorious , continued lord brogan .
king ine nodded his head in agreement .
i am sorry ramm but i think that caution might be the wisest course of action .
lord drogand tried vainly to hide his chagrin .
my liege must do as he sees fit .
king ine was not really attending to him anymore , but was staring at the missive in his hand in great perplexity .
such an endeavour as this requires careful handling , king ine murmured thoughtfully .
i think that rafes talents would be better served with this problem than in merrodon with those argumentative fools .
he cast the parchment on to the table .
i believe he will excel in finding an answer to this situation .
perhaps , my lord , it might be wiser to send someone a little more experienced in matters of subterfuge .
lord kyules voice was soft .
lord brogan quelled a sudden rush of anger at this slight to rafe .
it was lord kyule who had missed the signs that this problem was brewing , and now he had the audacity to call rafes ability in to question ?
what do you mean ?
king ine demanded shortly .
lord kyule placed the tip of his long finger to his upper lip , smoothing the hair of his beard .
anyone can see that lord rafe is very capable but lord kyule raised his eyebrows a little .
he is still young and perhaps in such a delicate matter as this , the wisdom that comes with age and experience might be required .
lord brogan , seeing the direction which lord kyule was going to take , could not help thinking that it was slightly ridiculous for lord kyule to cast himself as a wise elder when he was barely six years older than rafe .
lord kyule was young to hold the position of advisor , but his bravery and valour in the battle of calis had earned king ines respect and gratitude .
it took king ine several seconds to find the meaning of lord kyules remark .
you wish to see to this affair yourself , you mean ?
if my liege is not opposed to the plan , replied lord kyule bowing slightly .
king ine did not look best pleased and sat in irritated silence for a moment .
i suppose it would be best to start straight away , but when lord rafe arrives you and he will handle the matter between you .
lord kyule made a small gesture as though he would speak but king ine cut him off .
that was neither a request nor a suggestion , kyule , but is precisely what will happen !
as my liege wishes .
lord brogan saw anger flair up in lord kyules eyes and then , as he blinked , saw it carefully hidden away .
kyule was always trying to prevent king ine from charging rafe with his errands , reflected lord brogan .
perhaps it was because lord kyule so heartily disliked rafe , a feeling that rafe reciprocated entirely .
they hated everything about each other , rafe always said that lord kyule was like an eel slippery and hard to pin down .
maybe it was their differences that made them so incompatible .
rafe was open , lord kyule secretive .
rafe was boisterous , lord kyule strangely silent and always watchful .
rafe spoke plainly , lord kyule used words to hide the true meaning of his dialogue .
neither man had any time for the other , and lord brogan was pretty certain that rafe would greet king ines suggestion in much the same way that lord kyule had .
lord brogan knew it was best for rafe to have at least a hand in the matter .
it was not only parental pride that made him so certain that his son would complete the task , any task , better than lord kyule .
rafe had something that everyone else lacked he had finan and leofric , two friends who would help him in all he did .
what man with such an advantage could possibly fail at anything he turned his hand to ?
tis settled then .
king ine looked slightly relieved , as though the problem had been weighing heavily on his mind .
you may leave me .
the three men present bowed deeply in respect and turned to leave the great hall .
a moment if you please , brogan .
lord brogan paused , lifting one eyebrow in inquiry .
there is yet something i wish to discuss with you .
lord brogan returned to the table and seated himself opposite his king .
king ine was looking disturbed , his eyes troubled , and a droop to his shoulders that worried lord brogan .
what is it , ine ?
this thing seems to have hit you harder than i imagined it would .
king ine passed a weary hand over his brow .
the matter is delicate , he replied .
you remember , brogan , the battles that took place between ourselves and kent during the uprising .
i lost my uncle , mul , to the kentish revolt .
when peace was finally made it was decided that a marriage alliance should take place , bringing us closer together .
king whitred had a daughter of his second wife , a girl named cearo it was through her that an alliance was to be made , king ine sighed .
however king whitred married again , a lady waerburh of folton , this time aligning himself with a house of mercia .
that marriage produced another son .
it is that son who reigns jointly with his brothers now , under the guidance of his mothers brother , lord folton .
he rules with his brothers ?
king ine nodded gravely .
cearos mother was whitreds second wife , his first bore him two sons , aethelberht and eadberht , they are some years older than cearo and aelfric .
and they have no objection to lord folton ?
you think that it may prove impossible to destroy the treaty between them and mercia ?
asked lord brogan .
this has been something i have feared for years , replied king ine .
i made cearo welcome here on several occasions even after wihtred had married again .
it had even been decided upon that she would marry lord gournays eldest son cenric and bring our two kingdoms closer together .
after wihtred died and his sons took power , i saw a change .
cearo was no longer allowed here to visit me , the betrothal between her and cenric was broken , and all communication ceased .
both men were silent for a while , and lord brogan became aware of a rather drawn and grey look upon his friends face .
you think that lord folton is controlling kent through his influence over aelfric ?
undoubtedly , aelfric is only a boy yet to reach his tenth year .
and what of the girl ?
cearo ?
she was betrothed again , this time by lord folton to a lord of mercia .
king ine looked across to his friend .
i thought you should know that rafe might understand a little better the task before him .
yet you did not see fit to acquaint lord kyule with these facts ?
king ines face took on an expression of grim displeasure .
he sought to force himself into this affair when i had made it plain that he was not wanted .
very well if he will be so insolent as to try and force my hand , he can ferret out these things himself .
adele lay staring at the walls of the tent .
she should have been asleep , goodness knew she was tired , but somehow that oblivion was beyond her reach .
eda was motionless on the makeshift bed druce had constructed for them , and every now and then she gave a contented sigh .
adele remained completely still and listened to her friends rhythmic breathing .
she knew she was not going to be able to sleep until she had faced it .
she had suspicioned it before , when they had left finn to lord gradocks mercy , but she had known for certain when she had seen finn and randwulf engaged in altercation .
her only concern had been for finn .
adele turned her flushed face into the furs .
if she was honest with herself , she found herself thinking about finn far too often .
she couldnt remember a time when she had felt more foolish .
she was promised to lord rafe , how could she have let this happen ?
to attach herself so inappropriately , and to a man whom it was probable she would see every day of her married life .
and finn ?
what would finn think of her if he knew ?
adele flushed again .
of all things she hoped he would never find out that his kindness to her had been received in such a way as she had taken it .
she groaned , how would she face lord rafe now ?
to have betrayed him so terribly after his many kindnesses to her over the years , after his patience .
she felt so full of error , but she did not see how she could have avoided the situation she found herself in .
she had not even realised that she had become emotionally involved .
she had thought that she and finn were friends , the same as she and randwulf were friends .
it had only been when she had seen the two men engaged in combat that she had realised that this thing she felt for finn was far , far different .
it scared her .
it was so unknown , so powerful , trapping her , tangling her in a vast web of confusing emotions and loyalties .
she felt herself pulled this way and that lost , hopeless , and somehow so very alone .
why had no one warned her of this ?
why had lord rafe put her in this impossible position ?
no , that was not fair .
how could he have known the events he would set in motion when he sent finn to collect her ?
surely this was as cruel a twist for him as it was for her ?
adele bit her lip , feeling a sudden rush of pity for her betrothed .
since the beginning she had been nought but trouble to him , and yet he had been so kind .
never would she give him pain or cause to regret that kindness .
she would pay back her dues in full , and return all that he had given her so freely .
she would make recompense with the years that they would spend together .
she would make those years happy , she would make him happy .
more importantly , she would forget this foolish feeling for finan of gournay .
and finn ?
he would lose nothing , for he did not want her anyway .
adele closed her eyes and was still .
it seemed as though she must be asleep , and maybe she was , but there were tears on her cheeks .
chapter twenty he should tell her the truth .
leofric raised an eyebrow in finans direction .
fine , but this time you can tell him so .
he would not listen and besides , tis not my place .
finn looked out into the mist shrouded camp .
i wish lord brogan were here , perhaps he could make rafe see sense .
it is possible that it is not needed .
what do you mean ?
maybe it is our intervention rafe is unwilling to take , it does not follow that he deems our counsel incorrect .
you think he plans to tell her ?
rafe knows what he is doing .
until now the course he has chosen to pursue has done more good than harm .
now that the reverse is true , he will set things straight .
finan lapsed into meditative silence for a few moments .
i am not so sure , there was something so strange about him today .
his anger against rand was i do not know , but it was somehow unlike him .
we were all angry , how could we not be ?
shrugged leofric .
and you know that in personal matters rafe has never been cool headed .
tis only when the argument does not touch him that he is capable of diplomacy .
perhaps yet i had the strangest fancy that it was not only evorics death that incited his rage .
leofric glanced at his friend sharply , he too had thought that there was more to rafes fury than the happenings of the past .
instead of saying so however he asked what had put such a notion into finans head .
i do not know he seemed to resent rands claim on lady adele .
would not you ?
maybe .
finans eyes met leofrics with worry in their depths .
but not so violently .
come , finan , we both know rafe not like this , interrupted finan evenly .
rafe has a temper and loses it as often as not .
yet have you ever before felt the need to interrupt a fight that he was engaged in , as you did today ?
we both know that you would never have imagined that you would need to .
he had not slept in two days !
i have seen him negotiate the most difficult and delicate surrender after two days without sleep .
never once did his anger or impatience get the better of him then .
you can not say that did not touch him personally , for his mens lives were at stake .
this is different lady adele will be his bride , this thing touches his pride and honour .
finan did not look satisfied , and opened his mouth to argue the point .
before he could say a word a young soldier called his , or rather rafes , name .
what is it , kenric ?
a messenger from lord merrodon , lord rafe he begs that you come quickly to merrodon .
did he say why ?
no , my lord , only that it was a personal matter .
finan sighed heavily .
very well , kenric , you had best fetch my horse .
the soldier nodded and left .
would you like me to accompany you , lord rafe ?
asked leofric , his bow mocking and tinged with irreverence .
i am meant to be bringing peace , leofric .
a few moments in their company and you would have them at sword point .
you only care to use that smooth tongue of yours in the company of women .
tis best you stay here .
most likely lord merrodon wishes to see if he can entice me to settle in his favour as he tried once before .
finan grinned .
i will spare you that sickening display , fricka .
kenric returned leading finans horse , he was followed by a soldier from merrodon also leading a horse .
my master asked that you might come quickly , my lord .
the soldier inclined his head a little he looked impatient to be gone .
leofric watched as his foster brother stoically resigned himself to his fate , and reluctantly pulled himself onto his mount before grinning down at leofric .
considering that the principals in this affair are asleep , i leave you in control of a peaceful camp .
try to keep it that way if you would , fricka .
the journey to merrodon was only a matter of some few miles .
finan had made it often enough over the last few days and therefore his mind was only half directed at the path they followed .
there were other , far weightier , matters on his mind but it was not very long before he noticed that the soldier who had come to fetch him from the camp was ill at ease .
is aught the matter ?
the soldier turned harassed eyes upon finan .
tis only that we must make haste , he replied .
finan looked the soldier over again .
beneath his weather beaten exterior he was pale , and as finan watched he brought his arm up to wipe the coarse fabric of his tunic over his brow .
there was no sun , only thick mist and there was a decided chill in the air .
so why , wondered finan , was the soldier perspiring so profusely ?
perhaps he had misjudged the situation and there truly was something amiss at merrodon .
what is so wrong that your master sent for me with such urgency ?
the soldiers eyes flickered to finan for a moment , filled with hesitant worry .
my master charged me only with bringing you to merrodon , lord rafe , he will explain all when we arrive .
that was when finan knew .
lord merrodon , curse his black heart , had done something very stupid .
stifling the groan that rose to his lips he dispassionately wondered if merrodon had killed lord coughly or only attacked him .
either way there was going to be trouble .
finan pressed his horse to move faster .
his temper , always so easy , was pricked .
why did lord merrodon have to be so stupid ?
rafe had left this matter in his hands , had trusted him to see it right , and through lord merrodons pigheadedness finan felt he had disappointed that trust .
the rest of the ride was accomplished in silence , and they swept into merrodons gates at a canter .
finan reined in his trembling mount , but did not attempt to slide from the horses back .
the yard was full of men , soldiers leaning upon their spears , their attention focused on finan .
i had thought to find you in disarray , lord merrodon , yet here i find you in none of the dire straits i had imagined .
lord merrodon rose from the chair he was sitting upon , a smug smile on his lips , languid insolence in every slow movement he made .
a small deception that was necessary , i would never have enticed you here alone otherwise .
my being alone was so very important ?
shall we say easier ?
you see , lord rafe , someone does not view you with kindness .
finan glanced around at the decidedly unfriendly faces of lord merrodons men .
so it would appear .
enemies are an uncomfortable thing are they not ?
asked lord merrodon with a mock air of sympathy .
unfortunately yours seem to have caught up with you and they are demanding retribution .
the ominous shuffle of soldiers shutting off his means of escape accompanied these words , and lord merrodon continued in the same self satisfied tone .
my master wishes you dead , my task is to facilitate .
finan pulled his sword from its sheath and raised it so it pointed directly at lord merrodon .
you prove yourself an enemy to king ine !
finan raised his voice .
all who fight on merrodons side , fight against this kingdom of wessex you will be punished in accord with your error .
lord merrodon smirked .
not by you , lord rafe , nor by anyone else .
hardly had he finished speaking than , with a jerk of his wrist , finan threw his dagger .
the blade flew swiftly through the air , but the distance was far .
finan reflected that if it had been leofric that had taken aim , lord merrodon would even now be dead .
as it was , his shot was better than he had expected considering that he had used his left hand , his sword being already drawn in his right .
the blade sunk deeply into lord merrodons shoulder , and the stillness was suddenly broken .
lord merrodons men in charge surrounded their lord , and the foot soldiers rushed forward to surround both finan and his mount .
there were numbers on lord merrodons side , but finan had the advantage of height .
he knew the most important thing was that he kept his seat .
in that endeavour he was assisted by the soldiers themselves for as many as pulled him one way , pulled him the other .
of the mob that engulfed him it was only a handful of soldiers who could actually reach him , and the efforts of these men were greatly hampered by their fellows pressing in upon them .
merrodons warriors received no direction from their superiors , they were still fully occupied with their lord .
the men were allowed to continue in confused disarray .
finan was only too pleased that lord merrodon had not thought it necessary to ready his archers , and that none of his men had thought to retrieve their bow .
he took full advantage of the position he found himself in , and wielded his sword with the precision of an expert .
his mount , a large chestnut , showed why his master had named him brute by kicking and biting any and all in his reach .
it was then that one of the soldiers , suffering from a flash of inspiration brought on , as so often is the case , by observing the effectiveness of finans action , threw his spear .
the spear struck finan in his side , making him lurch forwards over brute in surprised hurt , his sword falling from numb fingers .
the crowd of soldiers was no longer as tight as it had been .
finan noticed that the men guarding the gate , instead of shutting off his only hope of escape , had surged forwards in to the fray .
he gathered up brutes reins , urging the horse forwards through the crowd of men and out of the gate .
he knew that he would be followed by lord merrodons men .
his only hope was that there was distance enough between him and them .
maybe he would reach the camp before they caught up with him .
the journey seemed long , he could feel blood flowing from his wound and soaking his tunic .
every movement brute made jolted him making him feel sick and dizzy .
the reins in his hands were slippery .
behind him he could hear the sounds of pursuit .
he knew that the soldiers determination would be greater now , and that in their desperation they were likely to be far bolder .
finan felt a sudden grim sense of victory .
it didnt matter what happened to him , they had already failed in their objective .
even if they did capture and kill him , it would be finan of gournay that they murdered , and not lord rafe of valrek .
finan caught sight of tents emerging from the mists , and within another few seconds he had cantered into the camp .
he lay across brutes back as the horse stood shaking and steaming in the cold air .
around him he could hear the sound of men running this way and that , shouting loudly to one another .
then he felt gentle hands lift him from the horse , and his name being called as if from a distance .
with supreme effort he opened his eyes to find himself looking up into a distraught face .
finan , what happened ?
rand held him tightly , choking a little over his words as he spoke them .
finan found that his mouth was dry and fought to speak .
finan , who did this ?
demanded rand .
lord merrodon the words were croaked out painfully .
lord rand !
bron emerged from the mist .
soldiers , coming from the direction of merrodon .
rand looked down at finan his eyes were closed and his breathing shallow .
benwick !
rand called for the page , and gave bron his full attention .
go to lord rafes camp and tell lord leofric what has happened .
bron had his spear in his hand , his attitude alert and ready for the fight he knew was upon them .
at rands words his expression became alarmed .
but , master , they approach too fast !
you can not hold them alone !
he objected .
we could not hold them together either , you must fetch lord rafes men now go !
bron nodded and ran into the mist , his figure disappearing almost instantly .
benwick !
oh , there you are .
rand turned to find the boy standing at his elbow .
find someone to help you get finan into my tent , and see that he stays to keep guard .
the boy goggled down at finan .
benwick , did you hear me ?
benwick , his face taking on a sickly pallor , lifted a hand and pointed a shaking finger .
rand looked down and saw the reason for the boys revulsion .
rands hand and a good part of the sleeve of his tunic , was soaked with blood .
benwick , can i depend upon you to get him inside and keep him safe ?
benwick nodded , gulping .
good lad !
rand stood , a curiously grim expression entering his face as he pulled his sword from its scabbard .
he reached the outskirts of the camp just as the riders from merrodon emerged from the mist .
the soldiers would never have ventured so close to the camp had they known of its existence .
however lord merrodon and his men had been unaware of rands arrival , and rand , in seeking to show rafe that he meant no harm , had set up his camp a good distance from his and closer to merrodon .
even finan had been surprised to find the camp he had entered was not his own .
as it was , the soldiers from merrodon could not draw back .
seeing that the camp was small they advanced at a gallop , spears levelled .
rand stood his ground , his feet firmly planted as one soldier advanced towards him .
as the horse and rider came abreast of him , rand caught his arm and dragged him from his mount .
the fighting was fierce , merrodons soldiers outnumbering those that rand had brought with him .
rand felt that he had never heard a sweeter sound than bron returning with reinforcements .
at first lord merrodons men continued to fight .
however , as more and more men emerged from the mist , they took to flight .
as desperate as they were , fighting off an entire army of men whose master they sought to kill was not a course they had any intention of pursuing .
it was leofric who had led valreks warriors into the fight .
as the soldiers from merrodon retreated , he and rand , panting hard , stood together and watched their enemy withdraw .
leofric became aware after a while that rands eyes were concentrated on him .
what ?
nothing , tis just that you really have grown up , fricka .
rand permitted himself a small smile .
you know , even as a child you lived up to that red hair of yours .
now the effect is so much more daunting .
leofric wiped his blade clean before replacing the sword in its sheath , he turned grim eyes on rand .
where is finan ?
in my quarters , come i will show you .
rand turned and led the way to one of the tents .
as he pulled aside the flap that covered the opening , the soldier inside turned brandishing his sword .
tis only i , drogo , reassured rand , raising a hand .
how is he ?
the soldier shook his head .
more fortunate than i can tell you , he answered .
the bleeding is heavy , but the wound itself is not deep .
the pain will be unbearable though .
he will live ?
it was leofric who spoke , his voice rough .
yes , sir .
rand saw the strained look of anguish leave leofrics eyes , and reached out to place a hand on his shoulder .
for some reason it moved him greatly to see leofric as he been in these last few minutes .
it had been like seeing a ghost from his childhood .
for a few moments , in his fear and worry for finan , leofric had been the lonely little boy that rand remembered arriving at valrek .
when rand had left , leofric had still been a small boy full of mischief and fun .
that boy had grown to be a man , and it had shaken rand to see the bitter hate and vengeance that had filled leofrics face as he had emerged from the mist at the head of valreks men .
never had he thought to see his youngest foster brother in the grip of such emotions , they seemed so foreign to leofrics character .
it made rand realise , for the first time , that there was much he did not know of the men whom he had once called brothers .
they had known each other so long ago and much had occurred to change them , just as the intervening years had altered him .
does rafe know ?
leofric shook his head .
there was no time to wake him .
he moved forward to kneel by finans inert form , shoulders slumped , and the hands he reached out to his friend shook .
now i am almost afraid to .
rand kept silent as he moved a chair beside the fire , turning it so that it faced leofric and finan .
for a moment he watched leofrics anxiety in silence , his own brow creased in thought .
fricka , why would lord merrodon wish to harm finan ?
he asked at length .
that was not his aim .
i do not understand .
tis ... difficult to explain .
leofric scratched his head .
lord merrodon has been led to believe that finan is rafe .
why ?
asked rand , astonished .
leofric sighed , pushing a hand through his red hair in agitation , and causing the curls to stand out wildly from his head .
rand was struck by an odd feeling of nostalgia , for it was a gesture he remembered well .
because rafe took it into his head that lady adele was still in danger .
he wished to escort her to valrek in secrecy , to ensure she would remain safe .
he reasoned that if he were known to be here , then no one would expect lady adele to be moved .
rand was silent as he absorbed this information .
i see in order for the deception to work finan had to be rafe , rand was thoughtful for a moment .
but i do not see why rafe had to become finan .
i do not think he cared who he became , he only wished to be anyone but rafe of valrek .
why ?
leofric raised his eyebrows .
come , rand it was a while ago , but surely you remember rafes pride ?
of course rand recalled how proud rafe had always been .
some of his best qualities arose from the pride he had in his family name , from the fact that he sprang from a long line of men who had cared for their people and been loyal to their king .
he wished her to see him for himself , to like or dislike him for who he was , not for what he had done for her .
after your father leofric paused , hesitating and began over .
when lady adele found herself in a difficult position , lord brogan felt it to be his , and consequently rafes , place to protect her .
that was how the betrothal came about .
lord brogan and rafe talked it through and decided that it was the best way .
the best way ?
questioned rand .
but not the only way ?
no , not the only way .
my father offered her a place in his house as my wife , and i believe that lord kyule offered for her too .
lord brogan refused however .
i do not know why , but he seemed to think lady adele the responsibility of the house of valrek .
and rafe ?
what did he think ?
leofric met rands eyes gravely .
he knew his father to be right , but for a long time he was uncomfortable with it .
not so much at first , but later .
ah i see , rand smiled a little .
and yet from what i remember of rafe he did not seem as though he would become terribly susceptible to fair maids .
you mistake my meaning .
it was not that , it was more that she brought back the memory of calis , leofric paused thoughtfully .
to be honest i think his fear was as much for her as himself .
he has never been one to seek out feminine company , and i believe he worried that lady adele would not be happy .
for a moment there was an uncomfortable silence as both men realised how intimate and unrestrained their conversation had been .
it was rand who broke it , smiling awkwardly .
who would have believed that little fricka would have grown to be so wise and perspicacious ?
who would have guessed how good it would be to hear you call me little fricka again after so many years ?
just like old times , returned leofric , smiling faintly .
rands face shuttered up suddenly .
it was not the first time that leofric had seen it happen , and it was strange to him .
rand had always been open and earnest , incapable of even the smallest deception .
ever since he had re entered their lives leofric had seen that the openness was gone .
now rand controlled that which others saw of him .
rands eyes met his , and leofric was startled by the coldness in their depths .
let us be honest , leofric , it will never be how it once was .
chapter twenty one rafe stirred drowsily and opened his eyes .
for a moment he couldnt think where he was .
the warmth of the furs that covered him and the softness cushioning his head felt out of place .
are you awake , master ?
the question was an unnecessary one , as druce was standing beside the bed and could see very well that he was .
rafe sat upright , holding his head in both hands .
how long did i sleep ?
since yesterday afternoon , master .
and lady adele ?
she is still sleeping , my lord , answered druce as he made his way to the tent flap .
rafe heard him talking in low tones to someone outside before he returned with a bowl and pitcher of water .
rafe watched him carefully as he set out a dry piece of cloth .
well , druce , what is it ?
druce started nervously .
m my lord ?
come , druce with whom were you whispering ?
druce flushed and hesitated .
master leofric wished to be told when you awoke .
did he ?
rafe climbed out of bed and stretched , yawning loudly .
i suppose that means i am to expect a visit from him then ?
i believe so , my lord .
even as druce finished speaking leofric entered the tent .
druce , looking slightly harassed , withdrew with a bow leaving them in peace .
for a moment they stared at one another in silence .
what is it ?
demanded rafe peremptorily , seeing the gravity of leofrics expression .
finan is hurt .
how ?
after we left you yesterday a message came through from merrodon , and finan rode out to meet with lord merrodon .
he returned an hour later wounded .
do we know how it happened ?
not precisely lord merrodons men fought to retrieve him when he reached the safety of rands camp .
finan is unconscious and a little feverish , he sleeps still .
why did you not wake me ?
exclaimed rafe .
of what use would it have been ?
there was nought any of us could do .
rafe had to admit the truth of this statement , but it did little to quell his temper .
you had best take me to him .
come then , he is resting at rands camp .
leofric saw rafe stiffen and reached out a hand , grasping his shoulder .
it is time to forgive , rafe .
rafe shook his head uncertainly .
i can not , you were not there , you never saw i saw how it effected both you and finan , responded leofric quietly .
i saw you change before my eyes .
we none of us will ever be able to forget , it would be wrong to try .
yet both of us know that evoric would wish us to forgive , he would want us to be just .
both men were silent for a time , and then leofric shook him gently .
come , rafe .
they walked to rands camp in silence .
leofric did not try to engage rafe in conversation he knew that his friend needed the time to collect his thoughts .
rand met them as they entered the camp and rafe pulled his sword from its sheath , hold it out toward him .
rand shook his head .
no , rafe , not between us .
rafe struggled awkwardly for something to say but could find nothing .
how is finan , any change ?
asked leofric .
the fever is worse .
they entered the tent to find drogo bent over finans form .
he looked up as they crossed the threshold , but shook his head at their unasked question .
no , the fever is yet in him , he talks still but i can not make out that which he is saying .
rafe strode forwards , dropping to his knee beside the bed .
what did they do to you ?
his voice was steady , but there was a white line of anger around his mouth .
rafe took hold of the fur that covered the bed and attempted to pull it back .
leofric stepped forward and stopped him .
let go , fricka .
leofric knew that rafe would brook no opposition and shook his head regretfully , stepping back out of his way .
the wound had been re dressed that morning by drogo , causing finan some considerable pain .
the aggravation had made the wound bleed again .
rafe pulled back the coverings on the bed to see that the bandage was marked red .
he gazed at the blood stain silently for some time .
he meant this for me .
tis not your fault , rafe , reassured leofric earnestly .
no ?
rafes voice was bitter .
then whose fault is it ?
if it had not been for the fact that i made him enter into this ridiculous charade he would never have been hurt , you know that as well as i .
whatever harm was visited on him was meant for me .
then i thank god that lord merrodons plans were foiled .
leofric raised his hand and grasped rafes shoulder .
you have to see past the fact that finan was hurt , ask instead why lord merrodon would wish to harm you .
he would not , why should he ?
perhaps it is finan he dislikes , only he believes him to be lord rafe , suggested rand .
leofric shook his head .
it makes no sense , not when he knows that it is lord rafe who acts as judiciary in this affair between him and coughly .
the three men fell silent until rafe turned again to finan .
his foster brothers face was flushed , a thin film of perspiration covering it with an unhealthy sheen .
when do you expect the fever to break ?
drogo shrugged his shoulders .
there is no way to tell , but hes strong he should be able to fight it .
there must be some sort of sign that tells if he will recover or not !
demanded rafe .
drogo shook his head .
i am afraid there is little we can do but wait .
wait !
repeated rafe bitterly .
why is it always inactivity and patience that is required ?
he settled himself in a chair and commenced tapping his fingers against the wood .
drogo looked towards his master , but rand shook his head and drogo was obliged to hold his tongue .
rafe squirmed uncomfortably and began to fiddle with the leather tassel on his belt .
rand cast leofric a speaking glance and leofric searched his mind for a way to entice rafes impatient restlessness from the wholly inappropriate setting of finans sick room .
rafe , is there some action we should be taking now that lord merrodon has made this move ?
rafe thought for a few moments .
it would probably be best if we join our camps together , we are vulnerable apart .
rand knew very well that it was his much smaller camp that was vulnerable , and felt a certain appreciation for the fact that rafe had phrased his sentence as he had .
you think we should move within your boundaries ?
no , there is no need to disturb finan , it is better that we come to you .
rafes face darkened as he looked again to finans restless movements upon the bed .
but there is something i must do first .
rafe ?
it was leofrics voice , a little anxious , as though he were not sure what his friend had in mind .
she has to know , fricka .
rafes face was set .
she has to know now , this has gone far enough .
leofric nodded his head but remained silent , he made no move to stop rafe as he left the tent .
he is going to adele ?
asked rand .
it is time .
i suppose , rand sighed .
he will feel better once he has made this plain to her .
leofric turned to rand , his eyes a little unfocused as if his mind were on another , more important matter .
you were always very clever in some ways , rand .
leofric shook his head .
but in others you remain the dunce .
chapter twenty two adele stirred and shrank away from the hand that shook her gently .
lady adele , wake up !
it was druces voice , insistent and low .
adele opened her eyes to find him leaning over her , one hand upon her shoulder and the other holding a goblet out to her .
what is it , druce ?
lor master finan requires a few moments of your time .
adele was very still , looking up at him and yet not really seeing him at all .
what does he want ?
edas voice came from beside her .
druce looked a little lost , as though he was not sure how to answer this question .
he requires a few moments of lady adeles time , the boy repeated carefully .
are you ready , my lady ?
he wants to talk to us now ?
again it was eda that answered .
yes , my lady , he waits outside .
adele rose from the bed hurriedly and moved to where her clothes hung over a chair .
tell finn we will be but a moment , druce , instructed adele .
druce bowed and fled the room .
i had thought that on reaching the safety of the camp finn would have left us to sleep in peace .
the fact that he has not is proof that something is very wrong , returned adele .
eda paused in her exertions .
d do you think so ?
she asked fretfully .
what could be amiss ?
adele , having completed the complicated task of dressing hurriedly , turned to her friend and began to comb her hair .
if we wait but a moment finn will make all plain to us .
rafe stood impatiently without .
having made up his mind to tell dele the truth , he wished only that it might be done quickly .
finn ?
adele was at the opening of the tent , gesturing that he was now permitted to enter .
he checked on the threshold , pausing as he registered eda .
i must speak to lady adele alone , eda .
eda looked scandalised .
finn , are you out of your senses ?
she gasped .
rafe held back the flap of the tent ready for her to pass through .
now , eda .
eda hesitated uncomfortably but , on encountering a nod from adele , moved toward the opening .
she stopped as she reached rafes side and looked up at him with a knowledgeable glint in her eyes .
i hope you know what you are doing , finn .
for a second their gazes held and then she was gone .
the room was quiet after she had left .
adele surreptitiously regarded rafe from beneath her lashes and found he looked preoccupied and distant .
for a time they remained still , and then rafe turned to her with an air of a man who had something unpleasant to accomplish .
ask me my name , adele , he demanded .
your pardon , finn ?
he saw confusion in her eyes , a turmoil of thoughts that caused a slight furrow between her brows .
just do as i say .
adele hesitated , she might have laughed but he seemed so detached and remote .
very well , finn , she smiled nervously .
what is your name ?
rafe , son of brogan , lord of valrek .
for a while there was silence , and he could see uncertainty in her eyes , as though she thought this must be some strange jest .
then he saw her gaze turn self conscious and embarrassment flooded her face with colour .
he was lord rafe ?
adeles fingers found the softness of her leg and she gave herself a hard pinch , it hurt prodigiously .
so this wasnt a dream .
that had been the first wild thought to enter her head , that something so perfectly accommodating to her happiness must surely not be real .
the second was the feeling of elation that welled up within her , filling her with such relieved bliss that for some moments she was dazed .
by and by she began to notice that all was not well after all .
because finn , and she could not help but keep thinking of him by that name , was standing staring grimly at the floor .
rafe was still , uncomfortable within himself .
he knew not what to say , how to explain .
in his complete absorption in his own thoughts , he completely missed the unrestrained joy that flooded adeles face at his tidings .
when he did raise his eyes her expression had changed into one of bewilderment that , having missed that which had gone before , he misunderstood .
adele looked up at him , her huge eyes filled with a sudden and new self consciousness .
she remembered all the things that she had said to finn , things that had been heard by lord rafe .
was that why he was so unhappy ?
had she said something that had displeased him ?
her cheeks suddenly blanched had he known ?
had she somehow betrayed her feelings for him ?
she hung her head , if he knew he would think she had not a loyal bone in her body .
she felt suddenly so exposed , knowing that every time she had said or done anything , finn had been searching her out , testing her .
for her he had just been finn and she had liked him , they had been friends .
yet in a second all that was gone , for her as well as for him .
rafe felt his stomach tense into an ever tightening knot , he had no way to know what she was thinking .
she must be angry , probably hurt , and definitely wishing him gone .
the thought of her unhappiness , and the knowledge that he was the cause of it , made him wince .
he wished she would speak , say something that would tell him her thoughts .
yet she only looked up at him stunned and hurt .
he felt as though her eyes accused him softly .
rafe turned from her , angered by his own ineptitude .
why could he not think of some way to reach out to her , a way to make things easy between them again ?
there had been silence for so long and , as rafe turned from her , adele could bear it no longer .
she could not bear the distaste in his manner , the frustration she had seen etched in his face .
his anger was directed at her , little though she understood it .
tis a pleasure to meet you , my lord .
adele sank into a deep curtsy , feeling very foolish that she could think of nought else to say .
rafe hesitated , unsure what he should do .
she must have felt badly hurt to have retreated behind a faade of distant civility .
try to believe , adele , that there was reason for the deception .
i had not meant for it to cause you discomfort , he spoke stiffly , his uncertainty making the words diffident .
adele blinked back wretched tears .
even now , when filled with anger for her , he was still trying to be kind .
somehow it made it worse , but she would not cry in front of him .
it would be the last indignity .
do not regard my foolishness , my lord , she met his eyes squarely .
you have no need to explain yourself to me .
rafe wished to goodness that she hadnt taken that stance , better if she had asked him to tell her all than to push him away .
sit down .
at his blunt words adeles eyes met his with fresh misery in their depths .
damnation !
could he do nought without making it worse ?
adele walked slowly to one of the chairs placed beside the fire and sank into it , grateful for its support .
rafe had begun pacing around the restricted space of the tent .
adele felt a little easier this was familiar , this restless impatience .
it was something she recognised in the man who suddenly seemed a stranger .
however , his face was still darkened by an angry frown .
so this was how it would be .
for so long she had wondered what lord rafe would be like what he would think of her , how he would feel about her .
now she knew .
she was an irritant to him .
every line of his posture told of his frustration , his exasperation at the situation he found himself in .
it cut her deeply and she knew an aching and fervent longing for the fort , for mistress ardiths comfort .
it had all seemed so simple , so clear when mistress ardith had explained to her the circumstances of her betrothal to lord rafe , the duties and position she would fill .
everything had been explained so carefully , and in such detail , that adele had felt well equipped for her new life .
now she felt very young and inadequate , filled with an awkwardness that held her mute before him .
she wished only that he would leave and put an end to the scene between them .
all the while rafe continued to pace , noticing her silence and the deadened look in her eyes .
all his life he had known what to do .
confronted with any situation he had always known what should be done , and had accomplished it .
why must it be that he lost that ability when talking to adele ?
just when he needed it , when it mattered most to him , his confidence faltered .
then again , how many times had he been called upon to settle any dispute which involved women ?
he felt suddenly that a whole area of his education had been passed over .
he hadnt the slightest idea what he ought to do to make things better .
finan has been hurt .
the words broke from his mouth with little connection to that which had gone before .
who is finan ?
asked adele carefully .
he was introduced to you as lord rafe , i believe .
and he was hurt ?
how ?
ambush .
rafe paused and resumed his pacing .
he was ambushed by someone who thought that he was lord rafe .
it is why i have told you the truth i did not wish you to hear it from anyone else .
adele was beginning to wish that it had happened like that anything would have been an improvement so long as it had spared them this awkward discussion .
rafe was watching her carefully , as if looking for some reaction .
gathering what wits she still possessed , she thanked him tonelessly for his thoughtfulness .
why did he keep staring at her like that ?
his eyes were so intent that she felt exposed before him , as though he could see every thought in her head .
he was looking at her as though he had sought to find something , but she had been found wanting .
she should be happy to find that the man she cared for , and the man she was betrothed to were one and the same person .
never in her wildest dreams had she imagined that she would find love in her marriage , it had not been sensible to suppose it was a possibility .
yet here she was before her promised husband , a man she knew to be kind and generous , who had treated her with the warmth of friendship , and who had been willing to give his life for hers .
she could hardly keep from weeping at the sadness in her heart , because somehow , somewhere , she had done something wrong and he was angry .
adele , i rafe paused trying to marshal his thoughts .
adele , i am sorry for any pain i have caused you .
he watched her avert her face hurriedly , and felt his heart sink , he had not known what to say and even to his own ears the words had sounded glib .
please send eda back into me when you leave .
there could be no mistaking her meaning and rafe felt the rebuff forcefully .
he bowed slightly , stiffly , and was gone .
adele remained so still that she might have been carved in rock .
well he is in a black temper , is he not ?
demanded eda , entering the tent a few moments later .
what was so important ?
it must have been bad to put him in such a foul mood .
adele had still not moved , and eda reached out to take her hand it was ice cold and trembling .
adele , is something amiss ?
adele looked up , her eyes swimming with unshed tears and a determined smile on her lips .
why should anything be amiss ?
she fell into the comfort of her friends embrace to cry bitter tears that shook her violently .
eda was by turns alarmed and angry .
alarmed at what must have occurred to cause adele such distress , and angry that finn , after wreaking such havoc , had simply walked away .
adele , what is it ?
i can not remember a time when i have seen you cry so .
adele gulped , trying to bring her tears under control .
eda , finn is lord rafe !
eda stared at her , trying to accept the information .
finally she shook her head .
finn ?
our finn , is lord rafe of valrek ?
adele nodded .
as in the same lord rafe of valrek that you are betrothed to ?
continued eda .
adele nodded again as fresh tears spilled over her cheeks .
eda rocked back on her heels , her face showing plainly her shock .
but , you will have to help me , adele i still can not make out why you are crying .
adele brushed the back of her hand across her face .
because i am so unhappy .
well , i would not say that i would want to marry him , not with a temper like that , but she took another look at her friend .
i thought that we liked finn ?
he is not finn , eda , he is lord rafe .
adele bit her lip trying to fight back her tears .
and the lord rafe who spoke to me just a moment ago was nothing like finn .
come , adele , this is unlike you !
he just stood there , eda !
glaring at me as though i ought to have been doing something , all silent and cross .
i dare say he felt just as awkward as you did , soothed eda .
adele shook her head miserably .
no , he was in perfect control of himself .
tears welled up at the memory .
he was so displeased , eda , what did i do that he should be so angry with me ?
adeles voice was quietly pleading .
eda put her arm around her friends shoulders and drew her into a comforting embrace .
she did not answer the question .
adele was too upset to be reasonable and her time was far better spent trying to sooth her .
how did you do it , eda ?
the question came as such a surprise that for a moment eda was quite devoid of breath .
adele , i eda closed her eyes , swallowing painfully , trying to suppress the feeling of hurt that rose within her .
he never said anything he did not need to , anyone could see that eda stood abruptly , releasing adele , and walked the length of the tent , trying to hide her emotions from her friend .
adele he was kind to me , to both of us .
she turned , her face set in determined , numb repose .
it was no more than that , we should never have imagined that it was .
but she had been certain that there was more to it than that .
eda shook her head trying to clear her thoughts .
they had been so young , she and adele so sheltered and innocent .
randwulfs visits had seemed so exciting , enlivening their monotonous existence at the fort .
by the time she had reached her fourteenth year he had been a man full grown , and seemed to embody all the mystery and valour of a great hero .
he had been so much older than them , to him they were little more than children .
she and adele had often talked of him , of his handsomeness and the excellence of his person .
yet she had always admired him from afar , it had been adele he was drawn to .
that had caused her some worry , but on the only occasion she had brought the matter into the open between them , adele had begged her to remember that she was betrothed to lord rafe .
she had assured her that she was not likely to forget that and all that lord rafe had done for her , just because a good looking young man seemed to have a predilection for her society .
then she had laughed and said that she rather fancied that randwulf would not have had her anyway .
looking back eda could see that there had never been the least danger of adele developing romantic feelings for randwulf .
she had always been able to judge him with an accuracy that would have been impossible for someone who had been in love .
eda remembered a conversation in which she and adele had fallen out badly .
adele had remarked that it was a pity randwulfs eyes were so deep set , and eda had contested such a slur angrily .
time had passed , and with that time randwulfs attitude had changed .
he had begun to take more notice of eda , and his manner had become steadily warmer .
they had spent more of his visits in conversation together , and she had felt her admiration grow to become slightly different .
it became a much stronger emotion that had burnt most fiercely when randwulf had been at her side .
she had been a little nervous of the feeling at first .
randwulf had seemed to experience the same intense bond , or at least that is how it had seemed to her .
how many times had she thought that there had been something in his eyes ?
she had been wrong , or maybe he had changed his mind .
perhaps he had only been friendly and then , sensing her attachment , had seen his mistake .
either way , his manner had changed abruptly .
he had started to treat her distantly , as though she had been a stranger .
the pain of it had shocked her with its potency .
she had felt for the longest time that she must have done something wrong , that somehow she had caused offence .
maybe she had , but it no longer mattered for the end had been the same .
the cordiality had disappeared between them and left only coolness behind .
eda was surprised to feel adeles hand slip into hers , and she turned to look down into her friends conscious stricken eyes .
forgive me , eda , i meant no harm .
eda forced a smile .
i know .
she lifted her free hand to rest upon adeles .
only look at the two of us we do not play this game of love very well , do we ?
adeles eyes widened and she looked away .
i never said that i loved him , eda .
come , adele if you did not love him you would not feel so wretched .
eda paused , her expression becoming softly unfocused .
it is the ones we love best in the world that have the greatest power to hurt us .
chapter twenty three rafe ?
what is it , fricka ?
rafe did not turn from his task but became even more intently focused upon it .
he sat in a chair by the fire in leofrics tent , his sword was on his knee , and he was sharpening it with firm , even strokes .
leofric judged that the time was not right for him to say that which was on his mind .
the tents have been reconstructed on the other side of the camp , joining our camp with rands .
i have set guards to patrol the perimeter .
rafe nodded , dusk was approaching and it was necessary to accomplish their plans before it was completely dark .
how is finan ?
no change .
leofric looked down at the floor , and his next words came with difficulty .
drogo becomes increasingly worried he does not say anything , but i think he is at a loss to know what more to do .
for a moment both men were silent , and then rafe flung himself from his seat .
why , fricka ?
it would be something to know why lord merrodon has done this thing .
i fear that we will not know why until finan recovers sufficiently to tell us .
neither man spoke the fear that ran cold in their veins that finan might not recover , that they might lose him just as they had lost evoric .
some time elapsed before rafe spoke again , his voice filled with determined bravado .
we will right this yet .
will we , rafe ?
leofric surveyed his friend thoughtfully .
maybe lord merrodon will not be so easily defeated .
rafe snorted scornfully .
at this moment lord merrodon sits at home weak with fear and worry , i would bet my life on it .
fear is not an emotion to be disparaged , it breeds a dangerous power .
only think with one move he has placed all he has in jeopardy .
he has nothing more to lose and his actions will be desperate .
that may be true , but you will find revenge is just as powerful , answered rafe , pulling back the tent flap .
look out there , leofric , look at those men .
valreks finest warriors , soldiers who respect and like finan .
if you do not know the rage in their hearts over this atrocity , you will soon see its effects .
what if lord merrodon will not yield ?
he will be powerless to do aught else .
i will fight him with every means at my disposal .
i will hound him and thwart his every move until he finds himself cornered like the cur he is and he will yield .
leofric watched his friend quietly for a moment .
lady adele was not best pleased i take it ?
rafes head jerked around , his eyes turbulent and just a little bit wary .
i fail to see the connection .
leofric raised an eyebrow , and colour stained rafes cheeks .
it is a different matter altogether and has no bearing on this .
ouch , that bad was it ?
leofric shrugged his shoulders .
no matter it has been my observation that great anger needs much fuel to sustain its intensity .
tis probable that a period of calm reflection will do much to make the matter clear .
rafe shook his head , his shoulders sloping tiredly .
you saw not her face .
i was talking about you .
rafe scowled and turned back to his task .
what would you have me do ?
leofric wondered over to the bed and flung himself down upon it , leaning back and closing his eyes .
forgive me to which of your problems do you refer ?
the one which , i have no doubt , you have prepared a monologue for .
leofric grinned .
you are fortunate , my friend i have prepared words of wisdom on both subjects .
he paused and the light heartedness disappeared from his face .
this thing with merrodon , by all means exact justice but be careful revenge is a powerful emotion that will not always prompt you to do right .
and with regard to adele ?
leofric tilted his head thoughtfully to one side .
do not be so anxious your discomfort will only make her ill at ease .
try instead to put all that is past behind you , there is no help in looking back .
leofric smiled ruefully .
and now i have given so freely of my great acumen , i will leave you .
where do you go ?
if it please you , i wish to speak with lady adele .
of course , if that is your wish .
rafes face showed plainly that he wanted very much to know why leofric should wish to hold any sort of conversation with adele , but he forbore to question his friend .
it occurred to me that the ladies might have some knowledge that would be of help to finan .
i never thought of that , his tone was startled .
i do not know if they will be of any use .
there is no harm in asking , he replied .
no , but i did not wish your hopes to be raised only to be disappointed .
leofric gazed down at the grass , a slight frown between his brows .
you do not seem to hold either lady in very high esteem .
tis not that .
lady eda , though upon occasion irritating of manner , is i believe a perfectly agreeable young lady .
and lady adele ?
asked leofric softly .
this time rafe was silent for longer , and when he finally spoke his words were slow and carefully chosen .
adele is amiable .
in all our journeying i do not believe she offered one word of complaint , but i have no reason to believe that she has been brought up to be in the least useful .
in fact , quite the reverse the lady who had charge of her made it more than plain that she was fit only to adorn valrek as some sort of object of beauty .
having seen her i should say she will not disappoint in that duty .
leofric smiled teasingly .
a beautiful , uncomplaining bride ?
i have a mind to lay claim to her myself .
you will remember that i offered her my hand and heart before you did .
it could be said my claim is stronger than yours !
for an unguarded moment rafes eyes betrayed a light not unlike the light of battle .
as i recall you were not present , leofric .
it was your fathers offer on your behalf and i can not recall any mention of your heart at the time .
ah yes , but she doesnt know that .
i could have been suffering under a hopeless passion all these years !
rafe raised an eyebrow .
for a woman , nay , a babe you had never even met ?
he queried .
even if she were fool enough to swallow such a tale i would soon set her right .
and destroy my chances with her ?
asked leofric pretending shock .
you have no chance with her , responded rafe unfeelingly .
besides tis no more than you would do to me .
really , rafe , and here i was thinking i would rid you of your unwanted burden .
you mistake the matter should i wish to be rid of her i could accomplish the task without your help .
could you though ?
leofrics tone was mock admiring .
your ingenuity knows no bounds .
rafe caught leofrics eye and saw that the words were the teasing of an old friend .
his irritation was somewhat diminished .
am i being insufferably ill tempered ?
yes , answered leofric promptly .
truth be told leofric was rather pleased with the direction the conversation had taken .
he had sought rafe out with the express intention of discovering what had passed between his foster brother and lady adele .
such curiosity was only natural in a friendship as old as theirs , but he had known that the information would have to be extracted with some skill .
in most things rafe was completely open with finan and himself .
however his opinions on his betrothal , his marriage , and lady adele , were closely guarded .
leofric had learnt long ago that idle interest in that direction produced unpleasant results in rafe .
and so he had been cunning , using rafes reactions to the mention of adele as a way to gauge his thoughts .
pursuing this far more successful line of inquiry , he had found , that rafe was not so complacent of his fate as he had tried to appear .
it had become obvious that he had looked forward to his marriage with trepidation .
his trepidation seemed to stem from the worry that he would not make his wife happy , and that this unhappiness would be mutual .
for the most part however , rafe had sought to expunge adele from his mind .
although his care of her had never faltered .
leofric had a shrewd suspicion that this care had been rather more than was generous , simply because rafe felt towards lady adele an unpleasant sensation of guilt .
yet all of that had been before now rafe had actually met her , had been days in her company .
leofric had not seen very much of adele , but what he had seen had convinced him , had he needed any more proof , that rafe really was the most fortunate man in all of wessex .
adele had her own special kind of beauty , and a trick of looking at a fellow out of her large eyes , as though he were the cleverest , most important , man alive .
to her credit she seemed to think a great deal of rafe , a circumstance that could only lift her higher in leofrics estimation .
all in all he thought that rafe might brush through the thing very well .
he took another look at his friends face .
so , is the wedding to proceed ?
it was a gamble asking so direct a question .
however , considering the information which he had already gleaned , he felt he could now be a little more reckless .
rafe sent him a glowering look .
i do not forget my duties just because it becomes difficult .
leofric controlled the urge to laugh only by extreme effort .
i actually meant is she still agreeable to marrying you ?
he stressed gently .
something in rafes eyes told him that his friend was considering visiting physical harm upon his person .
leofric grinned , inwardly of course , he wasnt suicidal enough to laugh in rafes face .
he reflected that rafe would not have been so livid if his words had not touched a raw nerve of truth .
how angry had lady adele been ?
it must have been pretty bad to put rafe in such a foul temper .
he wondered if perhaps lady adele had berated him for the deceit .
rafe would have been furious , knowing that he had no way to defend himself or his actions .
it had been leofrics observation that maids with sweet faces and tiny statures were usually anything but sweet tempered when crossed .
a mental image of a dainty adele rebuking a very large rafe burst upon him , and he was obliged to choke violently to cover his mirth .
the look on rafes face assured him that his efforts had been to no purpose .
i think you had better go and talk to adele while you are still able , rafe intoned wrathfully .
rafe could hardly believe it .
how could this happen twice in the same day ?
first adele calmly indicating that his audience with her had finished .
now leofric was prying into his most personal affairs and finding amusement in their hopelessly tangled state .
both of them .
without fear .
although there had been a faintly wary look of self preservation in leofrics eyes .
how had adele looked ?
rafe groaned , leaned forward , and rested his head in his hands .
he felt leofric touch his shoulder and then heard the sound of his foster brother walking away .
huh !
some friend hed turned out to be , leaving him to the mercy of his own thoughts .
how had adele looked ?
he couldnt remember , it had seemed as though she had spent the whole time with her face averted .
was that how it would be between them from now on would she never be able to meet his eyes again ?
would the chilly formality that had sprung up between them replace the warmth of friendship that had been before ?
coldness .
it seemed so strange to think of adele being cold , almost a contradiction in terms .
rafe groaned again , digging his fingers into his scalp .
he didnt want it on his conscience , didnt want that responsibility .
adele was warm , generous and kind , maybe even loving .
he didnt want to be the one who made her sad and miserable , cold and depressed .
she seemed to hate him now .
he wished he could think that he didnt deserve it , but he had a rather horrible suspicion that he had come by his just desserts .
it had been so easy to become friends with her , easier than he had ever imagined it would be .
to be faced suddenly with losing that friendship he felt a good deal of regret .
he had an uncomfortable notion that if it hadnt been for how much he liked adele , his dealings with her would have been handled better .
he was starting to think that anything would have been better than the way that conversation had gone .
he had never made such a mess of anything in his life .
at least if they had yelled at one another there would have been a relief of some sort .
had it been eda it would have been different .
they would have shouted and argued and then they would have felt badly and apologised to each other .
they would have come to the conclusion that the past could not be changed , and that they were still friends despite all that had occurred .
that would have been the end of the matter , because that was how it was between friends .
for a shocked moment rafe was completely still even his thoughts would not move .
great goodness adele ?
he began to laugh surprised , helpless .
adele ?
all his life he had been told that he was fortunate .
everyone had agreed that such a life as had been gifted to rafe of valrek could only be a benediction from god .
until that moment he had thought them all fools , but it had been he who was the fool , and he believed now .
rafe of valrek had just discovered a very surprising thing he loved the lady he had been obliged , all those years ago , to claim as his betrothed .
he loved adele .
chapter twenty four lady adele , might i beg a moment of your time ?
leofric watched the two women look toward him , and was startled to see a strange look of guilt pass over their faces as they broke off their whispered conversation .
there is something amiss , sir ?
it was lady adele that spoke , and leofric fancied that her voice was a touch huskier than on the occasion of their last meeting .
her demeanour , apart from that faint flicker of unease , was composed .
i am afraid so , my lady , responded leofric .
a man has been wounded and he leofric was irritated to find that the words caught in his throat .
he does not fare well , my lady .
i see , finn said adele broke off flushing painfully .
great goodness , would it always be thus ?
here was yet another person who had known that lord rafe was deceiving her .
had he laughed at her or pitied her ?
either thought brought choking rebellion up into her throat .
lord rafe mentioned that someone had been hurt .
adele paused , drawing a deep breath .
she was determined that she would not open herself up to more ridicule .
she would behave with the decorum that mistress ardith would expect of her as a lady of berron .
leofric heard the discomfort in her voice and , even through his own troubles , had sympathy for her .
he is very ill with fever and , although we have done what we can for him , he he leofric was obliged to swallow several times before he could go on .
he does not revive .
we know not what more to do for him .
adeles eyes rested , in their softly unfocused way , upon the man that stood before her .
that which she saw in his face brought the ache of tears to her throat .
his features were restrained , as though it were a fight to keep his emotions in check .
eda , where are the herbs mistress ardith sent with us ?
her voice was brisk , trying to hide how much this mans concern for his friend had moved her .
eda pulled a large bag from its hiding place , carefully running a hand over its surface .
tis still dry , her voice held a tremor of relief , and adele turned to leofric again .
perhaps if you might lead the way ?
leofric was hard pressed not to hug her thankfully .
his thoughts drifted to rafe , and he decided that his gratitude was not so very overpowering after all .
thank you , my lady .
the camp had changed .
adele was not sure what was different , but something was .
the daylight had faded an hour since and , as she passed into the tent , she blinked against the brightness of the fire .
the enclosed space held a great many people .
randwulf ?
there could be no mistaking his lanky form as he sat in a chair by the fire .
she was shocked to see the worry in his eyes .
it dulled somewhat as his gaze fell on her , and he looked perplexed .
adele ?
what ?
i thought they might be able to help , came leofrics voice .
he was not actually in the tent , for adele had stopped barely a step into the room , and eda had been forced to halt behind her , leaving leofric neither in nor out .
he gave eda a hefty shove and propelled both ladies inside .
adeles eyes travelled to the man lying on the makeshift bed .
the last time she had seen him she had thought him to be her betrothed .
she blushed faintly and moved towards the bed , placing her hand on his brow .
her fingers were cold from the night air , but even so she knew that he was much too hot .
he seemed to radiate almost as much heat as the fire .
how long has he been like this ?
the man kneeling across from her , who seemed to be in charge , passed his hand across his brow before he spoke .
since yesterday night , my lady .
great goodness , for so long !
what have you done for him ?
adele noticed his hands were shaking and that his eyes were puffy from lack of sleep .
at first it was mild , i thought that there might be some sickness in the wound and so i i he swallowed vainly .
i tried to bring the fever on hotter .
adele felt sorry for the man .
he had obviously tried his best , and in his place adele would have done the same .
i think that it would be best if we tried to bring the fever down .
she pulled a strand of leather out of the pouch on her belt and tied her hair back .
what is your name ?
drogo , my lady .
mine is adele , i will need your help .
yes , my lady adele .
she smiled and started to fold back her sleeves .
we will need to bathe him with cold water to take the heat from him , i need you to prepare him for that .
drogo nodded .
i will need hot water too , but mostly cold .
adeles brow creased .
and some cloths .
what do you want to give him , adele ?
asked eda .
she had spread the bag open over the floor .
i thought maybe a yarrow tisane ?
adeles voice was faintly questioning as though asking whether eda concurred .
eda nodded and , picking up one of the leather pouches , unbound the tie .
drogo returned , carrying a pot of hot water that he placed at the fires edge .
eda took a small wooden bowl and small wooden spoon and , measuring some of the contents of the leather pouch in to the bowl , reaching out to fill it with water from the pot drogo had placed by the fire .
then both ladies stood .
now you have to prepare him for bathing , drogo .
adele smiled toward him , and she and eda left the tent .
what is going on here ?
demanded rand .
i do not know , replied leofric , a little confused .
do you think they will come back ?
just as soon as you have him ready .
it was adeles voice , coming from outside of the tent .
leofric jumped violently and staggered against the wood pile .
where did you think we had gone ?
queried adele , interested .
further away than that , muttered leofric , or i would have spoken more quietly .
within a few moments finan was ready and both ladies re entered the tent .
we will need that cold water now , drogo .
the men are bringing it up from the stream , he replied .
even as he spoke a soldier staggered in with a large cauldron of water .
adele directed that it should be placed at her side .
finan was moving restlessly on the bed , and she reached out to touch his forehead again as eda took her place on his other side .
another soldier arrived with more water and placed it next to eda .
it is enough for now .
adeles hand was still pressed against finans brow .
how he burns , eda , i wish there was some way to submerge him .
for the first time her voice was a little uncertain .
this way will do well enough , twill be harder for us is all .
eda pulled a face of mock disapproval .
trust a man to make things difficult .
adele smiled gratefully at this attempt at humour .
i think we had better cool him first he is so restless i do not think we could force him to swallow the tisane .
eda nodded her agreement , and both ladies dipped their cloths into the icy water , wringing them out , and placing them against finans burning skin .
adele was not sure how long they sat applying the cold cloths .
after an eternity it seemed as though finan was a little cooler , surely he seemed more restful and moved less ?
adele had hopes that between them , she and eda would be able to make him swallow all of the tisane .
she wrung out her cloth and placed it on finans forehead , then she slipped her arm beneath him , cradling him against her shoulder , and managed to wedge his head still against her neck .
he tried to jerk away as eda carefully spooned the brew into his mouth , but adele held him firmly in place and the liquid was reluctantly swallowed .
it took a long while to feed him the whole bowlful and much patience .
by the time he had swallowed the last of the fluid he was burning again and adele was overheated from contact with him .
she pushed the damp hair back from her face , thinking that never had she been so hot before .
i had best make some more .
eda straightened from her awkward position with difficulty .
adele nodded , already trying to bring some coolness back to finans skin .
it seemed an almost impossible task and she shifted her pose , stifling a groan as her aching muscles protested .
will you be alright for the moment ?
asked eda .
adele nodded briefly , and eda stood and moved back to the fire .
adele continued with the task before her and was startled when someone took edas place at the other side of the bed .
it was the young man that had brought her here .
she had a vague recollection of randwulf calling him leofric .
as she watched he grasped the cloth that eda had left floating in the cauldron , wrung it out , and placed it against finans feverish face .
he is still very hot .
his eyes were worried and she felt herself smiling with reassurance .
tis too soon to tell if there is much of a difference , she responded .
give him more time .
leofric nodded and , turning back to the task at hand , they laboured together in silence .
it was some time later when adele sat back from the bed and raised her arm to push the clinging tendrils of hair from her flushed face .
she felt a hand fall heavily on her shoulder , and looked up to see finn standing over her .
no , he was not finn , she reminded herself he was lord rafe .
tis my turn i think .
adele remained completely still , looking up at him with the dazed expression of someone very tired .
he bent down , caught her elbow , and gave a gentle tug .
somewhat to his surprise he found adele stood obediently .
she was looking him straight in the eye , a slight furrow between her brows , and he realised she was too tired to feel awkward with him .
he took the cloth from her loose grip and , looking over her at someone who stood behind , jerked his head slightly .
she turned to find randwulf vacating his seat by the fire .
no , please .
she shook her head .
not by the fire , i am too warm .
rafe dragged the seat to the tent opening where there was a slight breeze .
then he took her place beside finan .
adele watched him closely he looked tired , and the same worry that she had seen in lord leofric and randwulfs eyes was also present in his .
adele could not remember very much of the man that now lay senseless on the bed .
he had seemed brusque when they had spoken , but then , she understood why now .
later when finn lord rafe , adele reminded herself sharply , and randwulf were fighting he had seemed irritable .
yet there had to be something about him that was special .
lord rafe and lord leofric would not show such sadness and worry at his condition otherwise .
and randwulf .
adele closed her eyes and leaned her head back .
for a while she rested , but something was nagging at the back of her mind .
she screwed up her eyes trying to ignore the feeling , then shook her head and opened them again .
randwulf was watching eda .
adele could see that her friend was unaware of his eyes upon her she was fully occupied with her task .
eda reached for the hot water that kept warm by the fire but , before her fingers could grasp the pot , randwulf had taken it from the fire and was pouring it into the bowl for her .
she looked surprised , and muttered something that could have been a thank you before turning away .
randwulf .
adeles eyes cleared sharply .
why was randwulf so worried ?
it made no sense .
it was obvious why lord rafe and lord leofric were so concerned finan was obviously a close friend .
however , why should randwulf share their concern ?
what is it , adele ?
adele realised that she had been staring at randwulf and suddenly he was returning her regard .
she shrugged as he moved to her side and leaned against her chair .
i was thinking how very anxious lord rafe seems to be for his friend , lord leofric too .
she allowed her eyes to rest on the two men labouring at the sick mans side , before turning to catch randwulfs expression .
his face was closed against her scrutiny , giving nothing away .
it was far too careful an expression for a man who had nothing to hide .
who is he precisely , randwulf ?
from what i gather he is the captain of lord rafes army , and his eldest foster brother the two have been friends since childhood .
i see .
for a moment adele was distracted by the thought that finan was such an old friend of rafes .
she felt tears pricking her eyes and was conscious , for the third time in the short while she had known him , of an overwhelming desire to comfort rafe .
eda rose from her place by the fire and took the medicine she had made to finans bed .
leofric received it from her with the assurance that he would see that finan swallowed every drop .
eda seemed awkward , having no idea what she should do now that her duties had been commandeered by another .
she turned to adele but , seeing randwulf standing so close , did not move to join her .
and how long have you and he been friends ?
asked adele .
randwulf managed to school his features into a blank mask .
adele had the satisfaction of seeing surprise , and even a little panic , leap into his eyes .
i do not understand your meaning , adele , he responded frostily , straightening to tower over her .
adele regarded the movement with just a touch of insolence in her expression , reflecting that he must be shaken to try and intimidate her .
i think that you are only too well aware of my meaning , randwulf .
her eyes met his , large , wondering , and soft .
randwulf regarded her warily , knowing that those mesmerising eyes of hers were nothing more than a trap .
they lulled him into the belief that he was safe and then when he least expected it , the trap sprang shut .
i do not know what it is that you are hiding from me , but i am fully aware that there is something there always has been .
rand opened his mouth to speak but no words would come .
adele continued to watch him , her expression the same .
he could feel the trap closing , forcing the truth into his throat where at any moment it would spill as words from his lips .
leave eda alone .
rands head jerked round to find adeles eyes still upon , him and he fancied he saw a hard glitter in their depths .
i beg your pardon ?
adele made an irritated noise in the back of her throat .
let us not pretend that you know not what i mean .
she tilted her head a little to one side .
or perhaps you would like me to go into greater detail ?
adele saw rand compress his lips and turn from her , but did not feel any the less annoyed with him .
rands face remained blank , but within he felt a seething emotion bubbling furiously .
no one , absolutely no one , had ever dared to talk to him like that .
even his father had known that there was only so far he could be pushed .
yet here was adele , little adele , barely more than a child adele , daring to speak to him as though he had been an erring boy .
he had done nothing of which he was ashamed .
he had never given any sign , or made any move , that might lead either lady to suppose that he had any feelings toward them than were warmer than friendship .
rand kept silent , he knew whatever he said in a moment of anger would be wrong and he would regret it later .
his eyes shifted to where rafe knelt beside finan .
he was no longer the gangling youth rand had known once .
rafe had always been tall , but the years had brought muscle to fill out his shoulders and rand knew , from painful personal experience , the punishment that he was capable of inflicting .
yes he would regret anything said to adele in a moment of anger that might cause her distress .
rafe , he was more than certain , would see to it .
still , it didnt change the fact that he had done no wrong .
but .
damnation , it always came back to that .
he should have known .
they had only been girls , very young and very innocent .
he should have realised that something like that might happen .
how could he have been so blind ?
it must have seemed like some sort of fairy tale to them a mysterious warrior climbing over the wall of the fort in which they were ensconced with little freedom and much curiosity of the world outside .
he felt quite sick just thinking about it .
the pity of it was that he liked eda he liked her sharp tongue , and her dryness amused him .
even more than that , he had liked the way she had looked at him .
it had made him feel important and clever .
it had made him feel older and wiser .
it had made him feel good she had made him feel good , better than he had ever felt before .
few things in his life had been good , let alone imparted that feeling onto him .
it hadnt hurt that she had been one of the most beautiful women he had ever seen .
she was radiant , stunning , breathtaking , striking as always the words ran out long before he had done justice to the excellence of her person .
most importantly she had been obvious in her admiration of him , it had been her best quality .
it had flattered his pride and , having felt that rush of pleasure at her attitude once , there had been an urge to feel it again , and then again .
it had been hard to stop .
goodness knew he had not wanted to , but in the end there had been no other choice .
rand sighed the truth was that he had used her , used the feelings she had displayed toward him as a balm .
the worst of it was that he had been content to keep on using her , regardless of the danger .
that knowledge would always haunt him .
he wasnt sure what he felt most guilty for the way he had treated her at first , or the dishonourable way he had shirked the consequences of his actions later .
she had deserved better than that , but he had panicked when he realised the extent of her feelings for him .
he was ashamed to own that had it not been for adele , for the breach he was trying to heal , eda would probably not have seen him again .
then again , perhaps a clean break would have been better after all .
surely it could have been no worse than that which had followed .
the continued visits where he had all but ignored her , treated her with a coldness he had not felt but which had nevertheless been necessary .
perhaps it would have been easier for her if it had just ended .
he knew it would have been easier for him .
he had suffered the sharpest twinges of conscience watching the hurt and bewilderment in her face , the disillusionment .
it had been his penance .
nothing could have been more effective in impressing upon him his stupidity , than making him watch the pain his own thoughtless actions had inflicted upon another .
adele was watching his face closely for some sign as to his thoughts .
there was nothing .
she sighed irritably and turned again to the trio on the other side of the tent .
her eyes clashed with rafes and all thought of randwulf and eda , along with the rest of humanity , flew from her head .
rafes face , unlike randwulfs , was very expressive .
it had been one of the first things she had noticed about him , and she still held it as one of the most attractive .
he looked bleak , a little uncomfortable , and very irritated .
is there nought more we can do for him ?
it was leofrics voice .
adele stood , moving to where rafe kneeled and sinking down beside him .
she leant forward reaching across rafe to place her fingers against finans brow , then his cheek and lastly his neck .
he is much cooler if we can keep him like this until the fever has run its course he will be fine .
both leofric and rafe let out huge sighs , and before adeles eyes their large frames seemed to deflate .
rafes face took on a relaxed , peaceful cast .
how much affection he must have had for the sick man .
adele couldnt believe how desperately she longed for him to feel that level of affection for her also .
she resolutely reined in her thoughts and took the cloth from his slackened grasp .
how long will it be before the fever poses no threat ?
asked rafe .
adele continued in the task of cooling finan , a slight furrow between her brows as she considered his question .
the yarrow tisane will take the fever away .
it should not be more than a few hours before he wakes , but he will be weak .
she took a quick look up at him from beneath her lashes .
now that the worry had left his face he looked tired white with dark smudges of fatigue beneath his eyes , and pale , bloodless lips .
you look exhausted , you should get some sleep , finn adele blushed at her mistake and looked away .
i i forgive me rafe shook his head , making a clumsy gesture of reassurance .
do not be i think you were right .
adele lifted her eyes to him hesitantly .
when we first met , you said finn was a friendly name , rafe swallowed awkwardly .
it matters not to me if you call me by it sometimes .
i mean that is for a moment he floundered and then his eyes met hers , a comradely smile in their depths .
it reminds me of easier times .
rafe winced that hadnt come out as he had meant it to .
he had been trying to tell her that , even with the worry and anxiety he had felt , there had been an underlying happiness in the days they had spent together .
adele continued to regard him steadily .
more than anything he wanted to say something , to explain to her his thoughts .
he knew that if he tried it would only become more tangled .
it always did .
adele had said nothing , she didnt smile but she didnt seem offended either .
rafe felt horribly uncomfortable under her unflinching glaze .
with those huge eyes she seemed capable of seeing into his very soul , though why she should want to he couldnt think .
finally she seemed to decide something .
i was happy too , rafe .
she stumbled a little over his name , but he was glad she had made the effort to used it .
he shifted uncomfortably .
do you think , adele , that you could be happy again ?
adele disconcerted him by remaining silent for some time .
i would like to be .
rafe heaved a sigh of relief , and then it struck him that she had not really answered his question .
before he could say anything more eda arrived with another brew for finan .
rafe stood , moving out of her way with reluctance .
he would have liked a more definitive answer to his question .
strangely , he would have been satisfied just conversing with adele for a little longer .
he found that he liked the way she paused before she spoke , her eyes softly unfocused as she collected her thoughts before uttering a word .
he stepped back from the bed and watched as the two ladies coaxed the medicine down finans throat .
they had saved his life , rafe realised .
he owed them much , and shuddered to think what might have happened if they had not been present .
first evoric and then finan , could he have taken that ?
it was not an idea he really liked to dwell upon .
his gaze shifted back to adele and he found he derived great enjoyment from watching her .
he felt a sudden and unaccountable pride in her .
she was his bride and she was lovely not just in form , but also in spirit .
the warm glow that he was experiencing disappeared as he turned and found rands eyes regarding adele rather too closely for his liking .
adele seemed unaware of his stare but rafe remembered , with a sickening lurch , how close rand had stood to her chair .
they had seemed comfortable together , rand leaning over her , his head a scant few inches from hers .
they had been so deep in conversation and absorbed in each other that they might have been alone .
rafes jaw clenched and he felt his fingers curl into fists .
adele was his !
he was damned if he would let rand take her from him .
suddenly he had an uncomfortable picture of adeles face , how she had gazed at rand as though he was the most important thing in her life .
her eyes had travelled rands face , soft and dreamy , as though she was seeking to imprint his every feature on her memory .
he had a horrified recollection of how adele had looked staring into the flames as they had sheltered from the rain one night on their journey from the fort .
her words came back to him , filled with warmth for randwulf .
even then he had wondered if perhaps there was more than friendship between them .
now he found that instead of the uncertainty those words had created receding , it was gathering in force .
what if adele had feelings for rand , feelings that he reciprocated ?
rafe looked again to where adele kneeled beside finan , her hand gently pushing the damp hair back from his brow .
if she and rand loved one another , could he deny her freedom ?
rafes face twisted into a bitter smile .
it was strange to think that one of the reasons all of this had started was because he was too proud to accept any affection from her as her saviour .
he would always have felt that whatever was between them had been bought , that she was trying to repay him somehow for all he had done for her .
the idea had sickened him .
he had travelled to the fort to find what she would make of him when she knew not who he was .
pride had set these events in motion .
yet here he was , completely willing to throw his pride into the mud to be trampled upon just so long as he could keep adele .
life , he reflected bitterly , was a funny thing .
chapter twenty five daegmund of gradock regarded his uninvited guest from beneath lowered brows .
lord merrodon was seated across from him , a goblet in his hand , trying to appear as though he were in full possession of himself .
daegmund was by no means fooled , but had to own that his interest was roused .
the house of merrodon had never deigned to pay the house of gradock much notice before .
daegmund could remember his father cursing such hauteur , and demanding to know in what way they thought they were better .
daegmund had always considered it was the fact that the house of gradock lacked the elegance of the stronger families of wessex .
he had never considered that it was because lord merrodon was afraid of them .
lord merrodon still sat quietly , a curious mix of insolence and fear .
he had hardly spoken since entering the room , but had availed himself of copious amounts of liquid refreshment .
daegmund had never been the sort of person who found it necessary to put people at their ease , or help them when they became tongue tied .
he remained silent as well , waiting for lord merrodon to collect his scattered wits .
anlaf stood leaning against the wall , half in the shadows , playing with his gem encrusted dagger .
lord merrodon eyed the blade uncomfortably , thinking that it was out of place in such a hall as this .
the shabby feel to the house , and the rough clothes that daegmund and his brother wore , stood out starkly in contrast to the opulent workmanship of the knife .
our families have never been close , lord gradock , began lord merrodon suddenly .
i do not think it can be said that the gradocks have ever been close to anyone , returned daegmund with a careless shrug of his shoulders .
this observation did not seem to help lord merrodons lucidity at all , and he swallowed a rather large measure of mead .
tis my wish that we could at least we might develop some sort of bond between our families .
i do not think that likely .
daegmund shook his head with finality .
i have seen your daughters .
lord merrodons face became suffused with unbecoming colour , his mouth opening and closing much like a stranded fish .
i did not mean that sort of alliance !
you must be mad to suppose that i would shackle my own flesh and blood to a lord merrodon broke off , observing daegmunds raised brow .
he swallowed jerkily and then forced a smile .
i thought we might help each other a little .
daegmund snorted .
i thought twould be some foolishness of that sort .
you find yourself in trouble and expect me to help you out of it .
you will find that the gradocks are not known for their neighbourly impulses .
but it would help you too !
exclaimed lord merrodon , a touch of desperation entering his voice .
really ?
daegmunds tone sent the blood rushing to flood lord merrodons face with colour .
i can offer you the chance of revenge without retribution to kill rafe of valrek .
for the first time daegmunds form seemed tense , and he dragged himself upright in his chair .
you could ?
how interesting .
lord merrodon relaxed , sitting back in his seat with a smug , self satisfied smile .
why do you want him dead ?
does it matter ?
twill matter a great deal if you do not tell me , responded daegmund with the lazy antagonism that was unique to him .
lord merrodon was reminded of the youth who stood in the shadows playing with his dagger .
he looked up and caught the glitter of the blade , and the flash of rubies and emeralds .
the youth flicked it so that the blade left his hand and turned a full circle , before the hilt landed back in his palm .
his face was as indolently relaxed as his brothers , but there was a trace of amusement lurking around his mouth .
lord merrodons eyes seemed to have a morbid fascination in the knife .
he watched silently as the youth tossed it , cleverly manipulating its movements so that it seemed to dance .
my master finds lord rafe to be something of an irritant .
lord rafe seems to have that effect .
quite .
lord merrodons attention was still on the knife .
and how is it precisely that lord rafe offends your master ?
merely by existing , responded lord merrodon with a thin smile .
i see .
so i will be given the opportunity to avenge my honour by ending his life , and your task will be complete ?
lord merrodon shifted in his seat .
yes , but i am afraid there is a little more to it than that .
there always is .
you see , there was an attempt already .
and it was not successful ?
lord merrodon shook his head miserably .
no the injury is severe tis only lord merrodon hesitated .
twas not lord rafe that was hurt .
daegmund thought lord merrodon was going to cry .
he looked scared , almost hunted , and had the air of a petulant child .
i think perhaps you had best tell me everything , responded daegmund heavily .
lord merrodon drained the mead in his goblet .
daegmund gestured to anlaf that he should pour him more .
twas not my fault !
i had never met him , how was i to know ?
how were you to know what ?
daegmunds voice had taken on a slightly impatient note .
that it was his captain !
cried lord merrodon , his brow creased in thought .
gordo , gadic , gizzards i can not remember his name .
anlaf , take the mead from him it seems only to make him worse .
anlaf prised the goblet from lord merrodons fingers with difficulty .
now explain to me exactly what happened , commanded daegmund .
lord merrodon blinked up at him pathetically for a moment .
i already did .
then tell me again !
my masters plan was to lure lord rafe to merrodon on some pretext .
because he was to be a mediator in a dispute between two houses , he could not accept shelter within their villages .
that meant he would need to set up camp .
when he arrived i was to kill him and make it appear as though a raiding party from mercia was responsible .
however , lord rafe did not come , the gordo man did .
lord merrodon turned to anlaf beseechingly .
how was i to know he was not lord rafe ?
he said he was why should i have doubted him ?
i see no reason why you should have doubted his word , soothed anlaf .
lord merrodon seemed placated , and fell to mumbling incoherently .
anlaf and daegmund faced each other over his head but neither spoke for a moment .
what are you thinking ?
queried anlaf curiously .
that there is more to this than either of us know .
please !
you must help me !
he will kill me if i fail !
pleaded lord merrodon .
you could always run .
there is nowhere that i would be safe from him !
come , come lord rafe ... lord rafe ?
who cares for lord rafe ?
screamed lord merrodon .
tis my master that will kill me , there is no place that he can not reach !
daegmund and anlaf exchanged a shrewd look .
who is your master ?
lord merrodons eyes widened in terror .
i can not tell you !
he must never know !
what must he never know ?
pressed anlaf .
that i have failed , that i have come to you and told you all !
he looked wildly from one to the other of them .
please , you must help me .
we must attack now , all must be finished before my master arrives .
your master is coming here ?
lord merrodon shuddered and nodded his head .
for what purpose ?
asked daegmund .
h he wished to see the b body .
daegmunds eyes met anlafs .
then we must see he is not disappointed .
it had been a long night , longer than any he could remember having suffered before .
at some point he had managed to persuade adele and eda to take their rest and leave finan to him and leofric .
he had only left finans side long enough to walk them back to their tent and station two guards to keep them safe .
he had returned to rands tent immediately afterward , not being able to leave even when he knew that finan was out of danger .
leofric and rand had stayed also , and together they had taken it in turns to make finan as comfortable as they could .
finan woke just after dawn .
rafe was dozing by the fire when he had heard leofrics excited voice call finans name .
he looked weak , but the fever had left him completely .
finan ?
leofric ?
what ?
finan blinked dazedly a few times trying to focus .
lord merrodon fear not , finan , all will be well , answered leofric shaking his head .
finans lips moved as he repeated this assurance over to himself silently .
how do you feel ?
rafe hardly recognised his own voice .
a touch of humour entered finans face .
as though an army had marched over me .
how long has it been ?
this is the third day .
so long !
finans tone was surprised .
i do not remember but he broke off with a weak smile .
i dreamed that i was a child again and my mother was bathing my face .
he saw the three men exchange looks .
what is it ?
twas not your mother , lad twas lady adele and lady eda , informed leofric .
finans eyes widened in horror .
you mean that ?
leofric nodded significantly .
what !
you let them ?
rafe laid a hand on finans shoulder , pushing him back down on the bed .
drogo , having a lively sense of self preservation and seeing that an argument was brewing , left the tent hurriedly .
do not excite yourself , finan .
finan looked up at rafe as though he had gone mad .
how could you ?
he demanded indignantly .
you know i can not stand to be cosseted by meddlesome women .
finan , you were in a bad way , we knew not what to do .
if it had not been for adele and eda , we would have lost you .
finan digested this information in silence .
i suppose you had no choice , he conceded grudgingly , but his eyes still burned with the indignity of it all .
for a moment there was utter silence as finan continued to glower at them .
rand began to whistle softly and rafe turned to stab him with a piercing glare , recognising the tune immediately as one that adele favoured .
leofric intercepted the look and cleared his throat .
what exactly did happen at merrodon , finan ?
he asked .
finans brow wrinkled in concentration .
tis all a little hazy , but i remember thinking that the rider who had come to escort me from the camp was ill or nervous .
now of course i can quite understand why he should have been .
when we entered , merrodon said his master required him to kill me .
his master ?
of whom do you suppose he was speaking ?
asked leofric .
king aethelbald , stated rand with certitude .
why would king aethelbald wish to see me dead ?
returned rafe .
rand shrugged his shoulders .
i do not know , but i came from mercia with the knowledge that both you and adele were in danger from a lord of wessex , i think we now know who that lord is .
finan shook his head .
why would lord merrodon wish to kill rafe ?
he had never even met him .
no he stated quite definitely that it was his master that sought rafes demise .
if he had changed his alliance to mercia of whom else could he have been speaking but king aethelbald ?
countered rand .
king aethelbald has no reason to kill rafe , it makes no sense , pointed out leofric .
rand ran his hand over his head and , grasping a handful of hair , gave it a sharp tug .
must it make sense ?
did my fathers actions against calis make sense ?
for a moment they were all silent , a little taken aback by the way rand had brought such an emotive topic into the open .
yes , answered leofric .
at least there was a reason .
there had been bad blood between your families for three generations , there was a root where the problem had begun .
what about lord gradock ?
suggested finan .
he would not do this , responded rafe .
why not ?
tis common knowledge that he hates you .
if daegmund had wished to see me dead then he would have killed me when he had me in his power .
why would he let me go , just to have me killed later ?
deniability he would have been in much trouble if he had despatched you , answered leofric .
he would not have let it weigh with him .
if he had wanted to kill me , that is precisely what he would have done and he would have cared nought for the consequences of his actions .
he would not stoop to such deviousness as this .
rafe smiled a little .
he would see no need to be devious .
i could almost think you like him , rafe .
i understand him and know that this is not something that he would do .
leofric looked doubtful , finan flat out disbelieving but both men held their tongues .
if it was not lord merrodon , lord gradock , or king aethelbald , leofric paused .
who else could it be ?
rafe shook his head , indicating he had no idea .
come , rafe , surely there must be someone ?
rands question sounded very much like a statement of fact .
you can not be so well liked as that !
he is not , assured leofric blandly and , on encountering a look from rafe , raising his shoulders slightly in innocence .
well then , who else is there ?
demanded rand .
there may be a great many men who have no liking for me , but there is much difference between antagonism and trying to end my life !
you feared for adeles safety , reminded rand .
have you no sense knocking around that thick head of yours ?
rafe demanded .
surely even you must see that visiting harm upon adele is a vastly different thing to visiting harm upon me !
in the silence that followed rafe found three pairs of shocked eyes turned reprovingly upon him .
what are you ?
you knaves !
choked rafe furiously .
do not dare to think that which you are thinking , or i will throttle the lot of you !
you know that to lay a hand on adele is to challenge me .
however to seek to harm me is to challenge king ine .
it is a far more serious thing .
rafe broke off as he saw rand and leofrics eyes focus on something behind him .
he turned quickly , but knew already what he would find .
chapter twenty six adele stood just inside the tent opening and rafe cursed roughly under his breath .
nothing in adeles face suggested that she had heard his remark , but somehow he knew she had .
good morning , my lord .
she moved toward the bed and the men parted before her .
how do you feel , finan ?
as she spoke her fingers touched his forehead , exploring his skin for any sign of lingering feverishness .
finan gritted his teeth and glowered at rafe .
well enough , he answered shortly .
nothing in her demeanour changed at the sharpness of his tone , but she dropped her hand to his cheek and then his neck .
are you hungry ?
it was on the tip of finans tongue to deny it , purely on principle , but his stomach overruled his brain and he nodded .
some bread and cheese with a little meat .
his eyes took on a faintly glazed expression of anticipation .
and some mead .
adele shook her head regretfully .
i think perhaps it would be unwise .
she turned to drogo and asked that he might bring her eggs and milk .
finans mouth dropped open .
eggs ?
milk !
his tone was disbelieving .
i am no infant , my lady !
adele turned to him , her eyes sympathetic .
tis best , finan , you are still weak and need your rest .
finan came close to telling her precisely what she could do with her eggs and milk .
just in time he caught sight of the warning in rafes eyes , and decided better of it .
this is not necessary , he managed to grind out .
i do not wish to trouble you .
adeles rich laughter filled the tent .
no indeed , finan tis i who you wish would cease to trouble you !
finan could not deny the truth of her statement , but that only made things worse .
she smiled again and turned to kneel beside the fire .
finan cast a furious glance at rafe and reached out , grasping a handful of his tunic , to jerk him down so his head was next to his .
get her out of here .
you know , i do not think i shall .
rafe , i mean it i will not be petted and cosseted by that woman .
rafes shoulders began to shake .
i rather think you will , he observed .
finan gazed up at him , his indignation taking away the power of speech .
rafe relented .
finan , please she has brought you this far .
allow her to stay and see you recover as quickly as possible .
finan snorted .
she will drive me out of mind , and i will not be held responsible for my actions if i have lost my senses .
adele returned from the fireside , carrying a wooden bowl in one hand and a cup in the other .
i promise i will not drive you to insanity , finan , assured adele .
and if you will submit to just a little cosseting , the barest minimum , i think the experience will not kill either of us .
finan looked a little abashed that she had heard his whispered comments .
she kneeled beside him and held out the prepared eggs .
finan was surprised how appetising their aroma was and felt his stomach growl in anticipation .
where is eda ?
asked rafe .
sleeping , replied adele .
i did not like to wake her .
she turned back to finan , watching in satisfaction as he demolished the eggs she had placed before him and holding out the cup of milk .
finan looked at it mistrustfully for a few moments before taking it with a sigh of resignation .
he drained the goblet swiftly , finding it to be surprisingly good .
adele had warmed the milk and it brought him a comfortable feeling of wellbeing .
adele took both the bowl and cup from his unresisting hands and washed them in the water drogo had provided .
finans brow wrinkled in thought and he turned to rafe with a hunted expression in his eyes .
does she know ?
about lord merrodon ?
finan shook his head , casting adele a wary glance .
before he could speak adeles voice floated across from where she stood .
i think finan is wondering if i am still under the impression that i am betrothed to him .
she turned from her task and dried her hands on a piece of cloth .
fear not , finan , i shall not drag you before an altar .
the mistake has been set right .
rafe listened to her speech closely , trying to discern if there was any resentment in her words .
she spoke lightly and there was even an inflection of amusement in her voice .
a wave of relief swept over him perhaps in time she would bear him no grudge at all over the deception .
i do not wish to be uncivil , my lady , but you relieve my mind greatly , answered finan reassured .
rafe saw a strange expression enter adeles face , almost as though she had been struck .
her features became suddenly arrested , and her hands began to twist the cloth she still held around her fingers .
becoming aware of just how her hands betrayed her inner anxiety , she dropped the cloth and it fell to the floor .
forgive me , but i think i should check eda .
i would not like her to wake up and find me gone , she would worry .
she hesitated before the tent opening .
you will not try to get up , will you , finan ?
i think i can promise that i shall not try to do so today , my lady .
finan forced a smile , trying to ignore her interference , knowing that she meant well .
and would it be too cosseting to ask that you might try to sleep a little ?
she asked softly .
a touch off irritation was evident on finans face .
he caught sight of her eyes and saw that they were sympathetic and apologetic .
against his better judgment he felt a good deal of his temper flee .
i think , my lady , that will be possible , he replied .
thank you , finan .
before finan could be surprised at the grateful tremor in her voice , she was gone .
i think you are getting soft , lad , remarked leofric with a lazy smile .
next you will be letting her feed you !
finan threw him a scowl .
anyone can see she means well , he responded .
she knows a man is not returned to childhood just because he feels unwell .
yet she is aware that if a man is not restrained he will hinder his own recovery with restless impatience against that which restricts his freedom .
finan settled himself further down on the bed that he might comfortably drift back to sleep .
what ?
you mean you actually are going to go to sleep ?
gasped leofric amazed .
i gave her my word , answered finan evenly .
tis probable that she is right and i will heal quicker if i rest , then i shall not have to endure this petting for so long .
he looked at the men gathered around his bed , gazing down at him in various stages of surprised amusement .
what do you do here ?
be gone !
rafe was already at the tent opening , watching adele as she walked away .
he wanted to follow her he felt that there was something wrong , but was unsure if he should go after her .
he might only make things worse , he seemed only to hurt her rather than make matters better .
he remained undecided for a moment longer and then suddenly strode after her .
adele had not expected to be followed and so had allowed a few tears to fall from her brimming eyes .
was she that terrible ?
was it such a dreadful fate to be married to her ?
she knew that she was not as attractive as eda , there were few women surely who could come close to her friend .
however , she had not been used to thinking of herself as a form of torture .
adele !
it was rafes voice , speaking just behind her .
she came to an abrupt halt in the midst of the tents , but did not turn .
he stood barely a step away , not reaching out to her or trying to make her face him .
adele ?
his voice was soft .
adele hunched a shoulder and dashed a hand across her cheek before turning .
he stood looking down into her tear filled eyes in horror , for a moment he knew a cowardly wish that he had not pursued her .
what was he supposed to do ?
he thought of his sisters what did he do when they became upset ?
generally he fled the room and left them to his mother .
he grimaced wryly , looking down at adeles trembling mouth .
what he would give to do that now .
he shifted , it pained him to see her so miserable and yet do nothing .
if his mother were here she would embrace adele and tell her that all would be fine .
he looked down at his arms they seemed suddenly alien , as though he had never seen them in his life before .
all he had to do was slip one around adele and pull her against him , offering her all the comfort he could give .
he couldnt do it .
not as things stood between them .
what if she shrank from him in confusion ?
he would be awkward enough without maidenly reticence making matters worse .
what if she were horrified by the action ?
what if she only accepted that sort of comfort from rand ?
rafes mouth dried out , his breathing speeded up just a little at the thought , and he almost dragged her into his arms in defiance of the idea .
but no , it was a risk he could not take .
he must not give her the chance to refuse him while her pride was still smarting .
he might never be able to forgive her the rebuff .
adele remained still .
she had promised herself that she would not cry before him and yet here she was , horribly conscious of her damp cheeks and wet eyelashes .
with a petulant sniff she reflected that her nose was probably red .
no wonder he looked so appalled .
why did he not say something ?
why must he embarrass her like this ?
although in truth he looked as ill at ease as she felt .
she sighed , he only ever looked like that when he was with her .
among his men , or with his friends , he was assured and relaxed .
perhaps eda was right and this was just as hard for him .
she dropped her gaze to the grass .
i am glad that finan is going to recover .
was that why she was crying ?
rafe thought not but felt very grateful to her for making it easier on him .
so am i .
he reached out and , before he was aware of his own intention , he took her hand in his .
it was small and soft , the fingers long , elegant and very , very cold .
his own hand seemed huge and clumsy in comparison , roughened by years of training , and swallowed hers completely .
he raised his eyes to find that she was regarding their joined hands with a strange expression of surprise on her face .
hesitantly she looked up at him , and rafe saw a shyness in her expression that had not been there before .
finan was fostered into my family before i was born and has always been as a true brother to me .
we have shared much together , and i can not tell how grateful i am to you for looking after him .
adele looked down at the hand he still held and then swallowed twice before forcing herself to meet his eyes again .
i am only pleased that we could be of help .
they stood silent for a while .
rafe had no desire to release her and as adele made no move to disentangle herself .
he realised that she had no particular wish to be released .
his heart had begun to hammer faster , and where their hands touched a fiery warmth had sprung up .
he swallowed with difficulty .
how was it that you knew that which had to be done ?
he spoke the words for no other reason than to distract her from the caress of his thumb as he brushed the soft skin of her inner wrist .
he did not wish her to pull away at the liberty .
adele shivered , faint colour staining her cheeks .
mistress ardith taught us , she she adele shook her head as though trying to clear her thoughts .
she said that it would always be useful .
i must remember to convey my thanks to her .
rafe !
rafe and adele sprang apart guiltily at the sound of rands voice , and a crimson wave of colour suffused adeles features .
eda will be i should goodbye !
before rafe could say a word adele had fled .
rafe watched her hasty retreat , a slow smile spreading over his face .
he was acutely conscious of the tingling sensation adeles hand had left where their skin had met .
rafe ?
it was rand again .
yes ?
was that adele ?
why did she leave ?
asked rand , lifting one eyebrow .
it matters not .
rands eyes travelled to where adele was disappearing into the tent .
he would have been easier if he had known what their discussion had been about , but he doubted rafe had any intention of telling him .
he returned to his reason for searching rafe out .
we have a visitor to the camp .
who ?
an old friend of yours .
rafe said nothing but his brows drew together ominously .
daegmund , lord of gradock .
rand pulled out his sword and admired the gleam of steel , rotating his wrist lazily so that the blade turned in perfect circles .
he brought lord merrodon with him .
chapter twenty seven you have been quiet , brogan , observed lord ramm of drogand after the silence between them had stretched out for some time .
they were sitting by the fire in the great hall , surrounded by preparations for the mid day meal .
the murmur of many voices encircled them , loud but indistinct .
lord brogan of valrek brought his thoughts back to the present with some difficulty .
what have you been thinking of all this while ?
nothing very much , replied lord brogan .
only about that boy of mine .
ramm nodded abruptly and turned away .
he considered anything that lord brogan said of his son to be smug and prideful , almost as though he were crowing over less fortunate men like himself .
it was only natural that he should boast of rafe , ramm would have himself if he had been blessed with a son of such character .
however , he had only leofric .
ramm snorted .
it was a cruel trick to play upon him , he who took such pleasure in warfare .
as a young man he had been the best warrior in the kingdom .
all he had wanted was a son that would make him proud , who would follow in his illustrious footsteps .
brogan had such a son .
brogan , who would not have cared if his son had shown no aptitude for fighting .
brogan , who placed so much more store by diplomacy .
what had he sired ?
a boy no better than a kings jester , prone to levity and laziness .
on any day at court rafe would be found at the kings side , discussing the things that were close to the kings heart .
on any corresponding day leofric could be found occupied in some wholly indulgent pursuit .
he hunted , he told stories , and generally engaged in vain and reckless behaviour .
the only time he was ever of any use and it had to be under rafes command .
it was almost as though the boy was taunting him .
he was pulled roughly from his reverie by lord brogans voice .
do you know whence lord kyule has gone ?
to merrodon , replied ramm off handedly .
lord brogan contained the worry that filled his mind as he thought of what lord kyule would find upon arriving at merrodon .
i did not know that king ine had sent him to relieve rafe , lord brogans voice was careful .
i do not believe that he did , responded ramm .
really ?
i wonder what he can have had to do there then .
i believe he wished to converse with rafe regarding how to proceed in this matter with kent .
ramm chanced to meet his friends eyes and surprised a steely look of menace in them .
it was only for the barest second and then it was gone , ramm could not be sure he had not imagined it .
lord brogan was thinking quickly .
he had never liked lord kyule , always believing him to be deeply underhanded .
he was only too well aware that lord kyule did not like him and found rafe repellent .
kyule hated the way king ine leaned upon rafe , the trust that he had in him .
lord kyule saw rafe as his rival in everything , and never missed an opportunity to undermine him .
so why would he have turned to rafe for help ?
why would he meekly submit himself to rafe now ?
brogan felt uneasy , he knew that finan was capable of hiding rafes absence from lord kyule for awhile .
however , eventually lord kyule would find out and use the knowledge against rafe .
although , it had been rafes intention to make his way to merrodon as soon as he had delivered adele to valrek .
perhaps he would have arrived already .
even if he were , lord brogan still could not shake the feeling that something was wrong in lord kyules behaviour .
what say we go and see what is taking our boys so long to arrange at merrodon ?
asked lord brogan suddenly .
ramm looked surprised , but brogan could tell he was taken with the idea .
an excellent plan , there is little enough going on here .
his friends eyes began to shine eagerly .
we will show those boys how tis done .
fancy dawdling all this time , what are they thinking of ?
the primary target of lord ramms speech was actually rafe , as leofric had no part in the affair .
he relished the rare chance to bring rafe down a little .
will king ine be able to spare you ?
i see no reason why he should not , once i have explained matters to him , replied lord brogan .
for a moment ramms face fell he had been imagining the stir he could make on his own without lord brogan , but it seemed that he was intent upon coming .
brogan snapped his fingers and a page appeared at his elbow .
prepare what i will need for a journey to merrodon .
brogan turned to ramm , his eyebrows lifted questioningly .
how long will it take to rally your men ?
my men ?
ramm looked surprised .
i had not thought to take them .
brogan regarded his fingernails closely .
did you not ?
it is , of course , unnecessary .
i was thinking of the fear it would strike into lord merrodons soul .
it would be amusing to peacock and scare merrodon a little , do you not think ?
brogan saw his words taking effect and continued smoothly .
i dare say he would capitulate to you immediately .
ramms chest swelled at the idea , and brogan could see that pretty soon lord drogand would believe that the idea had originated in his own mind .
i will send for them at once .
ramm slapped his hand against his thigh .
it will be just as it used to be .
there is nothing like the wisdom that age brings to sort these things out .
brogan nodded sagely and smiled within himself .
ramm would never know that he had been manipulated into his present course , it was not something he would understand or accept .
ramm was faultlessly honest in his own way .
that which others saw of him was that which he was .
he had never seen the need to keep his true thoughts in check , or camouflage the less desirable of his traits .
he was what he was , and that was how he demanded the world take him .
it was his own belief in his excellence that gave him such a sublime disregard for other peoples opinions .
he thought himself the best of good fellows , and it never occurred to him that others did not share that view .
their friendship was looked upon as something of an oddity , and sometimes brogan himself did not know how it had sprung up .
he deplored the way that ramm treated his son , it incensed him and , on occasion , sickened him .
perhaps their friendship was based on nothing more than the fact that they knew each other .
brogan knew ramms every fault and strength .
maybe that was all the relationship really was , a friendship based , not on mutual liking , for sometimes their opinions differed so widely that they could only find each other irritants .
rather it was based on a knowledge of each others different qualities .
they knew how far they could trust , or push , or rely on each other .
maybe sometimes that was all that was needed .
the tent was very still when rafe entered .
leofric sat on a chair next to the fire , his face more serious than was his wont .
daegmund of gradock sat across from him , completely relaxed , one hand held out toward the warmth of the flames .
anlaf leaned against the back of his brothers chair , his dagger in his hand .
leofric looked up sharply as rafe moved in to the tent , fixing him with a bland stare .
rafe nodded briefly , aware of what his friend must be thinking .
you placed me in a damnable fix when you escaped your pursuers , valrek , daegmund said by way of greeting .
i rather thought that you did not think it likely that i would manage to escape , replied rafe , his eyes resting upon daegmund watchfully .
no doubt you now regret our bargain ?
daegmund lifted a lazy hand , waving away the suggestion .
not at all i told you i hoped you would live , i just thought it unlikely .
his voice was airy and he jerked his chin towards anlaf .
this young pup takes every opportunity to remind me that he always believed you could escape those who followed you .
he has been truly insufferable about it , but then he would be , he is after all a gradock .
rafe saw a startled expression enter leofrics face as daegmund said this last , and smiled .
daegmund held no illusions regarding the faults of his personality , a personality that was greatly influenced by the traits of family .
he was a gradock and as such shared , to a lesser or greater extent , the same characteristics as the rest of his kin .
daegmund accepted it , rafe even suspicioned that he revelled in it , declaring that he could not help certain eccentricities of character because it was in his blood to be the man he was .
blood always bred to form .
my apologies , daegmund , i can not think what i did to give him such a high opinion of me .
ask and i shall tell you .
it was the first time anlaf had spoken , and rafe turned to see him lazily manipulating the dagger between strong fingers .
very well , what was it ?
anlaf proceeded to put the dagger through a complex series of swift movements , his fingers light and sure , his eyes never leaving rafes face .
you held off seven men for longer than i had thought possible .
anlaf shrugged his shoulders .
no mean task , but one of those men was stefan of wrenlight .
his skill is such that he is only ever been bested by two men one was his master , leax the elder .
and the second ?
queried rafe .
leofric of drogand .
anlafs eyes moved to where leofric sat across from him .
you held off stefan of wrenlight ?
asked leofric .
i am proud of you , rafe !
i know , of course , that you are no mean swordsman , but stefan is an artist .
rafe grinned towards his friend .
i did not hold him off long , fricka .
any man that can hold his own against stefan has my admiration .
leofric grinned slyly .
after all i know how hard it is .
he is the best i have ever seen , stated daegmund heavily .
and considering the amount i pay him to teach anlaf he should be the best that ever lived .
daegmund turned , an amused glint in his eye .
you must be pleased to know your wergild has been put to such good use , valrek .
wergild ?
for the first time daegmund seemed to notice rand and subjected him to careful scrutiny .
his posture took on a more aggressive rigidity .
it seems to me that we have met before , you and i , he remarked at length .
i must own you to be correct , replied rand impassively .
daegmund raised his eyebrows so far that they were lost in the shaggy mane that fell over his brow .
never did i think to see a targhe upon wessex soil again , not in my lifetime .
anlaf tensed , and the dagger stopped its endless motion as his eyes focused more intently on rand .
for the second time rafe saw a similarity between the brothers which was normally conspicuous by its absence .
he is a targhe ?
daegmund nodded significantly .
rand of targhe , better known to those in wessex as rand the wolf .
the blade began to move again in anlafs hand , but this time something was different .
it was no longer a playful catalogue of tricks .
the movements were still the same , but something in his execution had changed .
suddenly it was an expression of menace .
what do you do here , daegmund ?
broke in rafe as the silence lengthened .
daegmund wrenched his eyes with some difficulty from rands face and studied rafe closely .
there was a thoughtful look in his eyes , a cloudiness that he seemed to be trying to resolve .
what does he do here ?
asked daegmund .
anger flared up in rafes eyes and he became still , a sure sign of just how incensed he was .
tis none of your concern .
rand was startled by the coldness of rafes tone .
he felt as though he were a boy again and rafes hasty temper had leapt to his defence , just as it had been used to do .
he was swamped by a strange sensation of relief and humility , of hope , that all he had lost was not forever out of his grasp as he had always thought .
it seemed that here , between him and rafe , that old spark of friendship that he had thought irrevocably stamped out , had sprung to life again .
its warmth was gentle and forgiving , healing the breach between them .
you think it none of my business ?
daegmunds temper burst forth hotly .
none of my business ?
when i come to you to warn you of danger , only to find that you have accepted danger as a bedfellow ?
of what danger do you speak ?
daegmunds eyes moved pointedly to rand and he opened his mouth to speak .
before he could say a word rafe interrupted him with an impatient toss of his head .
not him , his tone was rough .
what do you mean who do you try and warn me of ?
daegmunds jaw set in a stubborn line , and for some seconds rafe thought he would not answer .
lord merrodon tried to kill you , i have him in my charge .
rafe lost some of the anger that radiated through his being and found himself feeling a little abashed .
i do not understand , how did you ?
rafe began , only to be silenced as daegmund continued .
i had it from his own lips .
daegmund paused satisfied at the surprise he could see in their faces .
come , tis not so shocking as all that .
whom else did you suppose he would turn to when he failed ?
he came to you for help ?
asked leofric aghast .
of course he was under the impression that i hated valrek , that i thirsted for revenge .
how was he to know that we had already settled our difference ?
to him i was the perfect ally for the situation he found himself in .
rafes face was thoughtful , his mind running through the implications of daegmunds words .
yet you brought him here , to me ?
asked rafe .
why ?
daegmund leant his head to one side , a slight smile touching his lips .
i thought it would be amusing .
amusing ?
demanded rafe .
how is this amusing ?
considering the mess you are in , valrek , how could it not be ?
daegmund relaxed back into his chair , his attitude contented .
rafe chose to ignore his enjoyment and returned to the subject at hand .
perhaps if you told me from the start ?
he prompted stiffly .
there is little to tell .
daegmund shrugged , a considerable feat considering his angle .
he came , he told us of his actions and we bound him .
what else is there to say ?
leofrics laugh rang out into the silence that followed , loud and filled with genuine amusement .
daegmund and anlaf remained straight faced , unsure whether to be affronted at his outburst .
what a shock he must have had !
gasped leofric eventually .
i do not think so , he was past caring , returned anlaf .
drunk as be damned , agreed daegmund dispassionately .
so then ... rafe and adele are safe , rands voice was dazed .
daegmund shook his head .
no lord merrodon was never your greatest problem , he is merely a tool .
your true enemy is far more cunning .
you mean that lord merrodon told you who his master is ?
you knew he had a master then ?
asked daegmund , his voice mildly inquisitive .
it seems that there is something to your reputation after all , valrek .
who is it ?
lord kyule .
for an entire minute no one spoke .
lord kyule ?
rafe shook his head , trying to force his brain to accept so outlandish a suggestion .
it made no sense it was common knowledge that lord kyule and himself had no love for each other .
yet , great goodness , that was no reason to kill him !
why ?
asked leofric , unconsciously echoing rafes thoughts .
what possible reason could he have for killing you ?
nothing , only much to lose .
daegmund scratched his head .
there must be something , his actions are not sane otherwise .
the men assembled turned to him and daegmund shrugged .
very well , his actions are not sane anyway .
still , he must have a reason , however obscure and twisted it may be .
whatever it is , i do not know what it could be .
i suppose it matters not , the important thing is that we are prepared .
daegmund found three pairs of eyes pinned uncomfortably upon him .
we ?
prepare for what ?
demanded rafe .
lord kyule is journeying here , answered daegmund .
he wishes to see the body .
the body ?
yours , clarified anlaf cheerfully .
rafe felt physically sick .
how many times had he sat in the same room beside lord kyule ?
had kyule been plotting against him the entire time ?
rafe shuddered it wasnt the intent that unsettled him so horribly , it was the fact that he had been blind to it .
yes , he had known that lord kyule disliked him .
yet never once had it once crossed his mind that kyule plotted his demise so coldly .
does he bring his army ?
asked rand .
anlaf nodded .
then we must prepare to fight .
how very like a targhe to come to that conclusion .
there was a hint of a sneer to daegmunds words but rands face remained impassive as ever .
it was his curse , the price of his fathers actions .
it had never been his custom to shirk it .
enough , intervened rafe .
i am grateful to you , daegmund , for your warning .
i am truly honoured to receive so much help from your family .
however , if you stay , you stay with the knowledge that rand is my ally .
he is also my friend .
his words were quiet , but no less powerful for being so .
rand felt , for the first time since evorics death , a lessening of the guilt that hung over him .
daegmund sat impassive and still , arms folded across his chest , a brightness in his eyes that could only mean that his thoughts were moving swiftly .
with a sudden movement he stood and pulled his sword free , offering it in a nonchalant salute to rand .
i have a wish to see how this thing turns out , therefore know that there is peace between us until it is over .
rand took the sword from him , raising the blade so that it was parallel to his body .
you will stay to fight alongside us ?
why ?
asked rafe , his voice betraying the depth of his surprise even more than his expression .
lord kyule declared war on wessex the moment he put this plan in motion , valrek .
i will not sit by and watch as another madman rips this kingdom apart even if preventing him means taking you as an ally .
daegmund laughed at the faces of those present .
come surely you did not think i came out of love for my fellow man ?
i am a gradock for pitys sake !
if wessex becomes unstable then my lands are endangered , i will not allow that to happen .
daegmund re sheathed his sword and offered his hand to rand , who accepted the gesture wordlessly .
then what is your plan , for it seems to me that your dislike of our suggestions can only be because you favour a different course of action , observed leofric .
daegmund nodded , his eyes thoughtful .
i think we should give him that which he seeks valreks body .
i see i had hoped , of course , that we could find a solution where i did not die , replied rafe mildly .
daegmund grinned .
as i see it we have the opportunity to capture lord kyule without the need for battle .
he is unaware that lord merrodon has failed in his mission and that we know of his plans .
if we can make him believe that his scheme has been successful , he will be within our power before he has the chance to fight .
a trap ?
mused rafe .
how will you see it done ?
i have lord merrodon captive , he is not very ... daegmund paused , a sardonic smile curving his lips .
he is not very courageous .
anlaf laughed , the knife in his hand spinning quickly .
i am confident that he will do that which we tell him to , continued daegmund easily .
and what do you propose to do with him ?
use him lord kyule comes to see the proof of your death .
we will give him that proof and , when he least expects it , we will overpower him and his men .
and you truly think that lord merrodon will help us in this deception ?
asked rand doubtfully .
daegmund nodded .
he has lost everything he will do all in his power to gain some of it back .
you suggest we let him go free ?
he is a petty turncoat , by keeping our eyes upon him we can make sure he causes no harm .
lord kyule is different , his evil must be stopped .
rafe was silent for a while , taking in the implications of daegmunds words .
he had no wish to begin more bloodshed and here was an option that alleviated the necessity of warfare .
how exactly shall we proceed ?
kyule will arrive at merrodon and be met by lord merrodon , what of merrodons armies ?
how will we subdue them ?
asked rand .
we have lord merrodon , replied daegmund arrogantly .
i have already taken command of his men .
a look of reluctant admiration dawned on rands face as he saw how cleverly daegmund had manipulated the situation .
it seems you have thought of everything .
daegmund received the praise with the customary conceit of a gradock .
it was not unpleasant or smug , merely a calm acceptance of due appreciation for the part he had played .
after kyule has arrived , merrodon will escort him within the house to see rafes body .
his army will then be surrounded by mine , valreks , and merrodons .
kyule will find , not the body he expected , but valrek still very much alive .
the plan seems sound , i foresee no difficulty , rafes voice was slow .
if i might ask you to lead valreks army in my stead , leofric ?
leofric bowed slightly .
twould be an honour .
anlaf will lead gradocks men , added daegmund .
i ?
why not you ?
anlafs voice conveyed surprise and daegmunds grin turned menacing .
i will go with valrek and see that kyule is subdued .
for a moment silence lingered in the tent as daegmunds words , and their clear intent , became plain to all .
then there seems little else to decide upon , stated rafe , breaking the silence .
amusement crept into daegmunds eyes .
are you sure ?
it seems to me you have forgotten something of great importance .
rafes brow furrowed thoughtfully , and daegmunds hearty laugh resounded around a small tent .
what of your bride , valrek ?
have you forgotten her ?
so he had been right , reflected rafe , daegmund had known about adele .
my brides safety is my concern you may be assured that i will not neglect my duty in that direction .
rafes voice had taken on a frosty inflection .
instead of putting daegmund in his place , he seemed only to find such consternation amusing .
and when shall i meet her ?
the silence that greeted this question was shattered by a feminine voice .
now , if it please you .
chapter twenty eight adele stood in the aperture of the tent .
her hair was hanging loose , tumbling over her shoulders in thick and gleaming waves .
the dark blue eyes that surveyed the room seemed more soft and dreamy even than normal , and the cold air had teased colour into her cheeks .
rafe saw daegmund jerk upright and anlaf dropped his dagger , both seemed incapable of speech .
a sudden rush of pride swelled in his chest , and a smile tugged at the corners of his mouth .
without realising he had moved , he found himself at her side and took her hand in his .
adele , this is daegmund , lord of gradock and his brother , anlaf of gradock .
adele turned the full power of her gaze upon both men and each bowed deeply .
adele inclined her head in response , she was not used to thinking of lord gradock in friendly terms .
good day .
she hesitated and looked to rafe questioningly .
lord gradock is here to offer his assistance .
adele turned back , a slow smile pulling her lips into a rich curve .
you honour us with your kindness .
to rafes great surprise daegmund disclaimed , and clumsily mumbled something about the honour being his .
tis my lady who has shown kindness .
never did i think to see a breach such as this healed so completely .
daegmund looked first at adele and then to rand .
after all you have lost , my lady , your forgiveness does you credit .
adele looked confused , her eyes shifting from daegmund to rafe .
forgiveness ?
whom do i have to forgive ?
rafe attempted to catch daegmunds eye , but lord gradocks vision was filled with adeles charm and he did not see .
why , even lord rand himself must see that you have much to forgive him for as a son of the house of targhe .
the room became silent , and daegmund seemed to realise belatedly that something was not as it seemed .
adele remained still , her eyes fixed upon rand but staring through him in a way that was detrimental to his comfort .
rafes grip on her hand tightened , seeking to give her reassurance .
she did not return the pressure but her hand remained limp in his .
what is your name ?
she asked eventually .
you have just been told , adele .
i would have the truth from your own lips .
there was a slight pause , and then rand gave an abrupt nod .
i am rand , lord of targhe , known in wessex as rand the wolf .
his voice and face were blank , concealing his feelings from her probing eyes .
this was it , rand thought , the moment he had both longed for and dreaded .
now adele knew the truth and that was a relief , he had not enjoyed deceiving her nor being cast in the part of deceiver .
still , he dreaded her reaction to the revelation .
would she hate him ?
would she give him the chance to explain ?
or would she turn him away forever ?
adele began to move towards him , slow and deliberate he could see the tears glittering in her eyes .
he didnt flinch but stood his ground , ready to accept the bitterness of her rage .
she stopped before him and raised her hand .
he waited expectantly for the blow to fall , but the fingers that touched his cheek were gentle and soft .
adele.. ?
his voice was little more than a whisper .
adele moved forward , resting her head against his shoulder and embracing him .
may god grant you peace , brother .
rand held her away from him so that his eyes might search her face .
adele , are you sure ?
do you not wish to know ?
my father ... adele shook her head , and he clasped her hands tightly within his own .
you bear no guilt for your fathers action , randwulf , she interrupted .
rand shook his head , words sticking in his throat even as he fought to express himself .
adele , you do not know ...
i was there ...
i fought beside my father ...
he choked on the words , distress and pain entering his eyes as it all came back to him .
but i did not know ...
i never thought that he ... your family ... adele smoothed back the hair that fell over his brow .
randwulf , i have known you since i was a child do you really suppose that you need to tell me any of this ?
do you not see that i already know that you could never do such a thing as your father did ?
rands grip upon her tightened .
adele , how can you ?
why do you forgive me ?
adele smiled tremulously , her face radiant with joy .
there is nothing to forgive you for .
only think in these last few moments i have gained that which i had thought lost forever .
a smile trembled on her lips even as tears rushed forth to spill down her face .
you have given me kin , randwulf .
rafe watched as they embraced again , a sharp feeling of pain and dismay tugging at his chest .
his greatest desire was to rip rand limb from limb , and he would have but for the fact that it had been adele who had turned to rand .
it was rands comfort she had sought and not his .
the knowledge burnt into his soul leaving only charred remains .
he had lost her , just as surely as he had lost evoric .
chapter twenty nine rafe suffered an uncomfortably restless night and had no trouble laying the blame firmly at adeles door .
put quite simply this whole thing was driving him to distraction .
he hated uncertainty , and adele inspired uncertainty in almost all of their dealings .
he had suffered enough .
he would speak plainly to her and set matters straight .
if she found such plain speaking embarrassing , it was just a feeling she would have to endure .
and so rafe found himself once more inside adeles tent .
however , he found his determination had once again under gone a perceptible change .
he felt as though he had somehow mislaid the confidence he had been so full of just moments before .
adele was gazing into the flames with unseeing eyes .
she stood as he entered looking very much as though she wished she could be somewhere else .
good morrow , lady adele .
he bowed .
she replied in kind , curtsying before him .
he had the sudden startling recollection of the first time he had seen her at the fort .
he remembered the way he had looked her over and dismissed her scornfully as a foolish child .
the thought was an unwelcome distraction , and had the unfortunate result of pushing his reason for seeking a private word with her from his mind .
adele glanced up at his face and surprised a faraway look in his eyes .
his fingers were gently tracing the rough edge of the sword belt he wore , with the absentminded distraction of deep thought .
her first flutterings of nervous tension died away as she realised that he was not angry or exasperated .
yet , he was not relaxed either .
she wound the loose end of her plait around her fingers , wondering what this new mood of his portended .
perhaps you would care to sit down , my lord ?
she asked at length .
his expression told her that there was nothing he wanted to do less , but he seated himself just the same .
what could have possessed her , wondered adele .
she well knew that he disliked the confines of a chair at any time .
when his mind was as preoccupied , as it was now , it was his custom to pace .
she sneaked a look across at him , wondering why he had sought her out , and was disconcerted to find him looking at her .
with great strength of will she managed to prevent herself from averting her eyes guiltily .
adele , yesterday ... you need not explain , my lord .
rafe paused , momentarily knocked off balance .
it was true that he had come here to make explanation , but experience had taught him that their minds worked in very different ways .
he doubted they were talking of the same thing .
rafe sought to keep his impatience in check .
her interjections were preventing him from coming to the point , and nothing irritated him more than interruption .
yes i do , so please let me .
very well , my lord .
she folded her hands in her lap and rafe took a deep breath .
a steadying breath .
for a moment there was silence between them as he tried to think of the best way to broach the subject .
however every time he opened his mouth to speak , his pride choked the words in his throat .
adele had not raised her gaze from the contemplation of her joined hands .
he took the opportunity to study her , taking in the curve of her cheeks and the thick gleaming hair plaited neatly over her shoulder .
unbid his hand reached out and pulled at the thin leather string that held the hair tight .
adele looked up sharply , but rafes eyes were concentrated on freeing the knot .
it came loose eventually and he allowed the leather string to drop to the floor , before running his fingers through her hair , loosening the plait .
adele cleared her throat nervously and rafe , called back to his surroundings , snatched his hand away from her .
an awkward redness stained his cheeks .
adele watched him , her breathing a little uneven , as he stared down at his hand in something approaching horror .
she felt a slow smile curve her lips in understanding .
that hand had betrayed him .
it had betrayed his feelings , the emotions she had felt in the gentle caress of his fingers in her hair , the impulse that had led them there .
adele he paused , swallowing with difficulty .
i know that our betrothal is not easy .
its purpose was that you should be kept safe .
he looked up , seeking a sign that she had followed the thread of his words .
if it is your wish , that purpose is achieved .
adele gazed at him blankly .
my lord ?
i mean that if it is your wish , i will release you from our betrothal .
adeles eyes dilated in shock .
i hope that you will be happy with rand , he continued with difficultly , oblivious to the look of consternation on adeles face .
you hope i will be happy with rand ?
repeated adele , suddenly finding her voice .
how can you hope such a thing when i am betrothed to you ?
because i wish only that you might be happy .
oh .
adele looked slightly mollified , then a frown touched her brow as she ran his words over in her mind .
why do you mention randwulf so particularly ?
rafe gritted his teeth and gripped his hands tightly together .
it is obvious that you hold him in much affection .
that is true .
adele conceded , her voice still perplexed .
but i do not precisely see what that has to do with our betrothal .
her eyes darkened slightly .
unless you see it as a disloyalty on account of the battle of calis .
it has nought to do with the battle , or anything save yourself , replied rafe .
this concerns only your happiness .
he saw a flicker of understanding in her eyes , and they opened wide as his meaning became clear to her .
to his great astonishment , she leaned forwards and slipped one of her small , soft hands into his .
rand will marry eda , finn , she said gently .
he has always wished to , although i do not think he knew it until he felt her beyond his reach .
rafe started at her words .
and you never ...
the thought had escaped his mouth before he could stop it .
adele shook her head decisively .
no , i am promised to you i always knew i would like you , she confided easily .
rafe felt an extremely foolish smile curve his lips , but was powerless to remove or restrain it .
his hand had tightened around hers , pressing her fingers into the calloused skin of his palm .
then you wish our betrothal to proceed ?
if you are agreeable to it , finn .
rafe felt a chuckle well up within him .
it seemed that she did not intend that he should escape voicing his own wish that the betrothal would continue .
i should like very much for us to be wed , adele , he responded , lifting her hand to his lips and tentatively pressing a kiss on her fingers .
adele blushed and there was a slight pause as both of them wondered what to do next .
finn , is it true that you will face lord kyule tomorrow ?
rafe looked up , surprise written on every feature .
how came you to know of that ?
druce told me .
how came he to know of it ?
muttered rafe in exasperation .
you will be careful , finn ?
adeles voice was uncertain , and looking into her eyes rafe saw that they were clouded with worry .
worry for him .
the thought spread warmth through his soul .
his eyes remained fixed so intently upon adele that she blushed , swallowed nervously , and tried to withdraw her hand from his .
he held her still , preventing the escape .
adele ?
she did not meet his eyes , and rafe stretched out a slightly unsteady hand to touch her softly flushed cheek with his fingertips .
it matters to you that i am careful ?
he asked quietly .
adeles flush deepened and she raised painfully self conscious eyes to lock unwaveringly on his .
it matters greatly .
rafe continued to stare at her for some time after she had made this declaration .
she cared .
his fingers trailed a light path from her cheek to her jaw and from there travelled to the nape of her neck , tangling themselves in the silky tendrils that he had loosened .
he paused , waiting to see if she would accept the gesture .
she smiled , a rather inviting smile to rafes way of thinking , and leaned fractionally closer to him .
he kissed her lightly , softly , hoping she would not reject the intimacy of the gesture .
he felt her lift one hand to rest on his shoulder in acceptance and pulled back a little , searching her face .
adele , i want you to know it is the same for me .
adeles eyes were slightly dazed , and she seemed to have trouble concentrating on his voice .
what is the same for you , finn ?
i care for you also .
the words were not said easily , but they were more precious to adele for that very reason .
her hand slid from his shoulder to his neck , were it was joined by its twin , and she edged a little closer to him .
you make me very happy , finn she paused .
will you do it again ?
rafe looked unsure .
the kiss , i i liked it very much .
i thought that , if it was no great trouble to you , we might try it once more .
rafe smiled and gripped her waist , pulling her from the chair to perch on his knee .
so did i .
he grinned mischievously , an enthusiastic and robust gleam entering his eyes .
adele found herself laughing , wondering what slumbering beast she had awakened .
leofric entered the tent a moment later and was confronted by the unexpected spectacle of lady adele of berron seated upon lord rafe of valreks knee .
they were engaged in a somewhat prolonged kiss that both seemed to be enjoying with equal ardour .
with a smile he withdrew silently and turned his steps toward finans tent , beginning to whistle a merry tune to himself .
rafe stood in the centre of rands tent listening to finans never ending cautionary list with patience that would have surprised many who knew of his temper .
the truth of it was that he was feeling rather sorry for his friend .
finan had been in charge of rafes safety for too long to be easy in sending him in to battle without his support .
adele knelt at finans side , smearing ointment on his wound .
the sight almost caused rafe to laugh .
he had never thought to see his friend acquiesce to such treatment from a woman , much less be so used to the circumstance as to hardly notice it .
do you hear me , rafe ?
demanded finan .
rafe pulled himself back from his musings .
i mean it lord merrodon is not to be trusted , not by any measure .
i have no intention of placing any trust in him at all , finan .
his words did not seem to have any heartening effect on his foster brother .
rand will stay here with his men to see that you and the ladies are kept safe .
rafe bit his lip as finans face showed plainly his chagrin .
what had possessed him to lump finan in with the ladies ?
it was adele who came to his aid .
it is a great favour to me that he should do so .
she laid her hand on finans arm .
rafe would not see it as a necessity of course , but it puts my mind at ease .
rafe blinked down at her in astonishment .
she had not lied , but her words clearly gave the impression that such protection as finan was to receive was at her request .
finan would accept such concern from her , as adele well knew , but from rafe it would be unpalatable .
she had saved both finans pride and his .
adele turned to him , her face as innocent as ever , and smiled guilelessly .
he had always known that her expression hid much , but he was constantly surprised by the sharp and downright devious way her mind worked .
he grinned at her .
anything to set my ladys mind at rest .
adeles lips twitched into a mischievous smile .
reminds me why i never wed , remarked daegmund disgustedly to anlaf .
never did see a man caught and he did not smile revoltingly all the time .
tis enough to turn a mans stomach .
rafe scowled but daegmund had not finished , he nudged his brother in the ribs and turned to adele .
did valrek ever tell you the story of his familys sword , lady adele ?
he asked .
adele looked at rafe to find he was pinning daegmund with an icy glare .
i do not believe so , lord gradock .
daegmund nudged anlaf again , a fact that was not lost on any of the occupants of the room .
every man that carries it , inscribes the blade with the name of his lady wife .
daegmund turned to rafe , a lazy challenge in his smile .
why not show her , valrek ?
rafe gritted his teeth but could not ignore the challenge .
with an impatient movement he pulled the sword from its sheath at his side , and handed it to adele .
his eyes never left daegmunds and he knew with certainty that daegmund knew what adele would find .
she held the sword in both hands and read the inscription aloud .
always together , never apart .
her eyes moved down to the names listed below .
ethal , aisly , charlotte , ebba adele .
she continued to stare at the blade for some time before handing it back to rafe .
i think the gesture to be a gracious one .
surely there could be no greater honour for a woman than that her husband would wish to carry the thought of her with him into battle ?
daegmund grinned .
i rather thought you would think so , lady adele .
he turned to rafe , his manner still superior and teasing .
come , valrek , let us be gone .
i begin to find myself plagued by boredom .
he strode from the tent , anlaf close behind him .
leofric began rafe .
tis already done , replied leofric , heading for the opening in the tent and flinging a few soft words over his shoulder , accompanied by a sweet smile .
rest well , finan .
and you see that no one takes exception to that silly grin of yours , fricka , and endeavours to sever your head from your body !
growled finan in parting .
rafe caught adeles hand .
see that you stay close to finan and rand .
adele nodded .
you will be careful ?
she asked anxiously .
rafe pulled her towards him and set a light kiss against her lips .
do not fear for me , sweetheart , all will be well .
another kiss , a grin , and he was gone .
rafe knows how to look after himself , lady adele .
assured finan after a moment .
adele said nothing , but kneeled back at his side and replaced his bandage .
it was only finan who saw how badly her hands shook .
the trap had been set , rafe could only hope that their wait would not be long .
he had travelled with daegmund and lord merrodon to the house itself .
anlaf and leofric were hidden within the forest , their armies ready to surround merrodon and lord kyules army .
rand and his men were protecting the ladies not only adele and eda , but also lord merrodons wife and daughters .
rafe tried not to think of them , of the fear that somehow they would get hurt .
another goblet of wine , lord rafe ?
lord merrodon stood before him , a supercilious smile upon his lips .
rafe frowned and refused the libation .
lord merrodon filled him with disgust , his treachery was only equalled by his toadying ways .
he was scared of them , terrified of the repercussions of his actions , and his manner toward them was sickeningly ingratiating .
he wished he could rid himself of the fellows pestilent presence , but it was necessary to their plan that he be here with them .
rafe watched as lord merrodon offered lord gradock refreshment .
daegmund refused and , as lord merrodon turned away , aimed a kick at the seat of his trousers .
lord merrodon jumped and scowled angrily .
he retired across the room to rub the offending area gingerly , whilst casting black looks to both of the occupants of the chamber .
daegmund laughed , and rafe found that he had to suppress a grin .
there was something refreshingly entertaining about daegmund of gradocks brand of frankness .
rafe stirred in his chair all of the inactivity was frustrating him .
he stood and began to pace the length of the hall restlessly .
how he wished lord kyule would arrive and put an end to the insufferable wait .
for some minutes daegmund watched him silently .
valrek , the house shakes with your impatience , he remonstrated languidly .
save your energies for lord kyule .
had daegmund known him better , reflected rafe , he would know that he had tried ever since childhood to marshal his restlessness .
he had only ever had partial success .
when in situations of great stress his control always slipped , and he found he could do little to prevent it .
kenric entered the room , his breathing coming in short gasps .
lord kyule approaches , master !
rafe offered up a silent prayer of thanks and turned to lord merrodon .
he had risen to make his way to the courtyard .
they had agreed that he would greet lord kyule , and lead him into the great hall .
i hope you understand the penalty i will exact from you if you do not obey the instructions you have received .
rafes voice was cold even daegmund felt slightly intimidated by it .
lord merrodon quailed before the look , beads of perspiration on his brow and upper lip .
he opened his mouth to speak , but words were not forthcoming .
he settled for nodding jerkily .
the room was quiet when he left .
rafe fingered the sword at his side but did not pull it from its sheath .
daegmund had his sword drawn , as had kenric , it was not necessary that he do the same .
he didnt want violence , he just wanted to know why lord kyule wanted to kill him .
he need to understand what he had done to inspire such vengeful hate .
the heavy door creaked as lord merrodon returned and time seemed to slow as it swung gently open .
lord kyule stepped into the room first , lord merrodon following and closing the door behind him .
for some seconds rafe and lord kyule stared at one another in silence .
rafe felt as though he was seeing kyule , a man whom he had known so long , for the first time .
the lank straight hair and beard were just the same , but his bearing was somehow different .
the quiet subservient slant of his shoulders was gone .
he held himself tall , a man who had power and was prepared to use it with devastating effect .
lord kyules eyes bored coldly into rafes , and suddenly he knew that this man was truly dangerous .
the hate in kyules pale blue eyes was icy and controlled .
rafe felt a strange feeling of horrified fascination that , even in this dire situation , kyule could be unruffled and calm .
lord kyule had just walked into an allys house to find that he had been betrayed .
his enemy , instead of being dead as he had been promised , was very much alive .
why was he so calm ?
why was his confidence not shaken ?
kenric had stood against the wall on which the door was situated .
as lord kyule had stepped into the room he had brought his sword up to rest where lord kyules neck met his shoulder .
still there was no panic , no fear , no uncontrollable flash of anger , to break lord kyules composure .
rafe moved his hand so that it rested against the hilt of his sword .
the cold jewel encrusted familiarity gave him some reassurance as he looked into the face of evil .
lord kyule .
lord rafe .
the polite salutation seemed foolish in the circumstances .
as you must have guessed , we are aware of your plans .
your men are surrounded , as are you .
do you yield ?
lord kyule was silent for some time , his eyes remote .
you have no idea what i would be yielding , he returned quietly , moving away from kenrics blade without fear of retribution and sitting in the chair daegmund had occupied a few short moments ago .
i am not beaten .
your men are surrounded by three armies i assure you that you are .
yield or i shall be forced to kill you .
lord kyule said nothing , but touched his fingertips together .
it was a gesture rafe had seen him make many times before , but this time it seemed sinister .
always the same , are you not ?
lord kyule sneered .
cocksure , intemperate , and insufferable in the belief that , as a valrek , you must be right .
you were a spoilt , cosseted child now you are a spoilt , cosseted man .
what did i ever do to you that i should deserve such hate ?
what did you ever do ?
repeated lord kyule slowly .
what an excellent question , one i have asked myself constantly over the years .
what did you ever do to deserve all that you have ?
the answer is naught , but you did have the good fortune to be born a valrek .
he allowed himself a thin smile .
how i hate all things valrek !
your family has worked itself into a position of unparalleled trust for the last four generations .
you yourself are no exception how many times have you saved prince aedelred from the consequences of his own idiocy ?
he paused looking rafe over with a venomous glare .
i remember the first time ... do you ?
lord kyule paused , obviously waiting for a reply , and so rafe nodded abruptly .
of course you do it was in the battle for calis .
lord kyules lips tightened .
i wonder if you ever pause to remember that you would both have died that day if it had not been for me ?
rafe nodded again .
he remembered it vividly prince aedelred falling , the struggle to get him back on his feet whilst keeping the press of men from overwhelming them .
then the relief when young lord kyule had descended upon them , his white horse splattered with mud , sweat , and blood .
the rescue had been timely indeed .
well you are the only one .
prince aedelred conveniently forgot , and delivered all praise and glory to you , lord kyule spat out bitterly .
your father credited with targhes defeat , you glorified for prince aedelreds rescue , and the rest of us left to hang !
rafe was startled by such injustice and angry words sprang to his lips .
as i recall we were all honoured for the part we played in recovering calis .
for your courage you were given a place as king ines adviser .
you are even now entrusted with protecting this kingdom .
i wonder if you would have felt honoured if you had been in my place instead of yours , returned lord kyule dismissively .
the worst was yet to come , for your father managed to secure lady adeles hand for you .
ha !
i had to sit and listen to him blether on and on about her safety and how he felt he had a responsibility toward her .
he told king ine that he felt the only honourable thing for him to do was to care for her and take her into his own family .
lord kyule laughed mirthlessly .
lies !
filthy , deceptive , cunning , obsequious lies !
his only thought was for her lands !
he saw , just as we all did , that her lands would be controlled by her husband , giving him great power .
he was determined that power would be valreks !
my father wished to keep lady adele safe !
returned rafe hotly .
he could stand whatever slurs lord kyule saw fit to throw at him , but he could forgive nothing said regarding his father .
so naive , jeered lord kyule .
always so ready to believe in honour , pride , and unselfishness .
when will you realise that they are just words that we use to hide the truth .
they allow us to do as we wish , and yet present our actions to the world as an illusion we call nobility .
rafe felt sick as the words , twisted and soiled , left lord kyules lips .
your father knew all this , and used his position to secure the greatest thing of all power .
rafe could stand it no more , he felt his rage tremble to a peak and something within him snapped .
his anger levelled , and suddenly he no longer trembled .
his hands were steady , gripping the sword firmly as he pulled the blade free of its sheath and sprang forward toward lord kyule .
lord kyule was ready for the action and somehow managed to place the chair between them , his own sword in his hand .
rafes eyes met his and saw them gleam with excitement , then he kicked the chair from between .
the swords touched with a scrape and clang of metal the jolt travelled up rafes arm painfully .
lord kyule stepped to the side , swinging his sword low .
rafe blocked the blow and with a grunt lord kyule stepped back and brought his sword crashing down , aiming for rafes head .
daegmund had taken a hesitant step forward , and rafe could hear him shouting encouragement and instruction and then , as he almost failed to avert lord kyule sword , heard him berate him vilely .
rafe allowed lord kyule to attack , let him control the fight and push him around the room .
he blocked the blows but didnt seek to land any of his own .
it had always been his practice to allow his opponent to believe that he held the upper hand , to allow him to display his full arsenal , to study his movements and form , the blows he favoured , and then use the knowledge against him .
kyule was good , rafe had to admit , his blows showed skill and he was very strong .
however , he was nowhere near his own standard .
since youth rafe had been used to training with leofric whose skill with any kind of blade was unparalleled .
it had been a long time since rafe had been able to best leofric but , when training together , their fights had always been fierce .
he had learnt much from them .
his standard had risen to match that of his friend , giving him a stamina to carry on fighting , enabling him to hold off his opponent for an infuriatingly long period of time .
the fight continued rafe watched as a different light enter lord kyules eyes he suddenly seemed to realise that rafe had been holding back .
then a flame of anger lit his expression as he became aware of the fact that he was not good enough to keep rafe at bay for long .
rafe heard a crash , the splintering sound of wood , and daegmunds hoarse cry of warning .
he couldnt turn to see what was amiss but was aware that lord kyules expression had changed again , becoming smugly triumphant .
as the ring of metal against metal filled the room , rafe realised that something had gone wrong .
somehow kyules soldiers had managed to evade leofric and anlaf .
the sweat stood cold on his brow , and with grim determination he forced lord kyule , inch by painful inch , into a corner .
valrek , behind you !
daegmunds call of warning pierced the sound of battle , and rafe dropped to the ground .
his outstretched leg tripped lord kyule and the momentum of his strike span him round to face the opponent who stood behind him .
he had brought his sword over his head to block the blow that he knew would fall , and reached for his dagger .
the blade plunged into the warriors unprotected stomach with sickening ease .
with a groan the man staggered back and fell to the floor .
rafe turned back to kyule only to see him making his way to the door that hung broken on its hinges .
kyule was unarmed his sword had skidded away into the middle of the room where the fighting was most fierce when hed fallen .
rafe couldnt think how he had not noticed the door before , and then saw that it had been covered by a large tapestry .
he stepped forward , ready to engage with lord kyule again , but as he pushed through the crowd he found it necessary to dodge a blow to the head .
rafe wielded his sword and just managed to prevent the blow from falling on his shoulder .
he staggered as the force rippled up his arm .
for some seconds he struggled with the warrior and , as their blades became tangled again , rafe raised his fist and landed a hefty blow on the soldiers jaw .
the warrior reeled back , shaking his head dazedly , but his place was taken by two more men .
the fighting was frantic , the room crowded with men swaying unsteadily together , filled with hoarse shouts and grunts of effort , along with bellows of agony as swords and daggers found their marks .
they were packed too tight , thought rafe , as he stumbled against a fallen man and was saved from tumbling when he fell against a soldier standing just behind him .
yet there was still men pouring through the open door that led into the courtyard .
rafe found himself beset by two of merrodons soldiers , and was engaged in repelling their attack when he heard the swift movement of air as a dagger flew over his left shoulder .
the hand that had grabbed him from behind released him he heard the sound of a sword drop to the ground , and the dull thud of a body making contact with the floor .
rafe took a deep breath of relief he would have to remember to thank leofric later .
the fighting wore on , desperate and vicious , until one shout was heard above the general tumult .
yield or your master dies !
it was leofrics voice he stood on a chair , one arm around lord merrodon .
his sword reached across lord merrodons chest , the blade resting in the ample fat of his neck .
there was silence , and a moment later the metallic ring of weapons as they fell to the ground .
rafe kept his sword raised , ready to employ it at a moments notice if need be .
many was the man he had seen felled just as hostilities had ended .
rafe pushed through the soldiers as they were herded out of the door , and into the courtyard , until he reached leofrics side .
pulling lord merrodon from the chair , he pressed the jewelled dagger that he had pulled from his erstwhile opponent , whom leofric had dispatched , in to lord merrodons neck .
where is kyule ?
he demanded .
quickly , cur , before i choke it from your deceitful throat !
lord merrodons hands tore at rafe ineffectually , his eyes widening in panic .
i do not know !
rafe shook him vigorously .
you had better know , swine , or a great many vastly unpleasant things will befall you !
lord merrodon began to gibber foolishly .
i do not know ...
i did not plan that far !
then tell me how far you did plan .
i only ... the men ... that they should enter from the back .
i swear i did no more !
rafe gazed into the terrified eyes of his quarry and knew him to be telling the truth .
his hands tightened on merrodons collar drawing him closer to hear his softly menacing words .
you will find that , of all things , i despise betrayal more than aught else .
be assured that when i return i shall devise many imaginative punishments for you .
lord merrodon sagged , seeming suddenly to deflate .
you will mete out punishment to me , he would not have been so kind .
his anger would have consumed my family also .
rafe released him in surprise .
he held no illusions as to lord merrodons character , but he felt that the older man was speaking the truth .
if that is the case fear no punishment from me your family deserve your loyalty more than i. rafe paused .
however , for the rest you must answer to king ine .
he turned , blurting out an impatient order .
kenric , fetch valiant for me and assemble some men , be quick !
kenric nodded and disappeared into the courtyard .
rafe held out the gem encrusted dagger to leofric with a grin .
you have my most heartfelt thanks , fricka a more timely intervention i can not imagine .
leofric held his hands up , palms outward .
i wish i could take the praise for so excellent a throw , but i fear i can not .
twas anlaf .
rafe turned to the youth , surprise and respect filling his eyes .
my thanks , anlaf , i am indebted to you .
if ever you have need of help , i am yours to command .
anlaf received the dagger with a grin and placed it in its sheath .
twas a fine throw , lad , agreed daegmund beaming .
especially in the heat of battle .
anlaf remained silent , not through modesty , he was after all a gradock , but with the air of a man who accepted such praise as his just desserts .
kenric returned , telling rafe that valiant was ready .
may i accompany you , rafe ?
no , fricka when finan finds out all that has happened he will refuse to stay abed .
rafe mouth was set grimly .
i do not think that rand will be able to restrain him , but you will know what to do .
you will take someone ?
leofrics voice was urgent .
a handful of men and rafe raised his eyebrow in daegmund direction .
i would feel easier if you accompanied me also , daegmund .
daegmund nodded , looking pleased at the prospect .
then that is that .
rafe bid leofric a hasty farewell , but turned just before he stepped through the door .
put the ladies at the heart of the camp , fricka , be sure that they are guarded at all times .
you think he might come back to harm them ?
i think that i have no wish to find out , his foster brother replied , and then he was gone .
a few moments later leofric heard the beat of hooves as they left the courtyard .
he turned to anlaf , a faint smile touching his lips .
about that throw ... chapter thirty rand stood watching as leofric supported finans ponderous progress towards the chair that drogo had set outside in the cold air .
eda and adele hovered nearby .
they looked anxious , but seemed to accept that finan would not like them to fuss .
finan had been , despite his dislike of the situation , a model patient , and in return adele and eda had tried not to interfere overmuch .
leofric lowered his friend into the chair , casting an anxious look at his face .
he was much paler than he had been , and beads of perspiration stood out on his brow .
it would have been best if he had stayed in bed but finan had been determined , just as rafe had known he would be .
leofric had decided not to argue , such an action would only have made finan stubborn and push him to even more strenuous activities .
better to let him have his way he would soon see that he was not well enough to do more than sit in the chair that drogo had provided .
without the incentive of argument , he would have no reason to do more .
eda shivered in the cold air more than anything she wished to wrap one of the thick furs around finan .
yet she knew he would rather freeze then have his men see him swaddled as a infant .
will he be all right ?
eda jumped as she heard rands voice , low and close to her ear .
so long as he does not stay out here too long , she replied , trying not to notice the way her heart had begun to thump heavily .
she took a deliberate step away from him , and rand was surprised by an urgent desire to pull her back .
instead he asked the question hed been longing to ask but had not found the appropriate time or place to do so .
did she tell you , eda ?
eda flinched a little at his words , but her face remained expressionless .
she told me .
the answer gave nothing of her inner thoughts away , and for some time they were silent .
rand looked at those standing near they were close enough to hear what he and eda were saying .
he had no wish for an audience when he said that which he was going to have to articulate .
he took edas hand , but started away from him in surprise , trying to extricate herself , but his grip was too strong .
he raised a finger to his lips in a gesture of silence and , tugging gently on her hand , beckoned her to follow him .
against her better judgment eda found herself moving after him , and he led her toward a wooded area to the left of the camp .
he stopped a few yards into the trees and released her , keeping a few feet distance between them , and turned his back upon her .
now he had her alone he wasnt sure what he was going to say , how he was going to explain .
i am sorry , eda .
it hadnt been what he had planned to declare , but somehow he had spoken before he could stop himself .
there is no need to apologise to me , only to adele .
as she has freely forgiven you , you need not feel guilty anymore .
her tone was carefully neutral but he felt the words held a barb .
i did not ... rand broke off turning toward her again .
i did not mean that i meant that i was sorry for how i behaved to you .
eda went white , her face losing its colour so quickly that rand thought she might faint .
there is no excuse that i can give you , he continued with difficulty .
i wish there was something i could say , some reason why you were hurt ...
he paused again , but eda continued to stare at the ground blindly .
it it was not my intention to try and attach your feelings .
something that sounded suspiciously like a curse burst from edas lips , and her face flooded with anger .
it had not been his intention to attach her feelings ?
how could he be so cruel as to mortify her by talking of her love for him ?
her unrequited love for him ?
surely the least he could do was feign ignorance of her emotions ?
how dare you ?
she demanded , her voice furious .
rand stepped backward in surprise , waiting for her to continue .
she waited , obviously expecting him to answer her question whatever it was .
i do not ... what ... ?
are you trying to insult me yet further ?
she asked .
have you not done enough damage , have you not mortified me enough ?
rand stared at her blankly , not understanding her anger .
you smug , self centred , dishonourable knave !
she spat , bringing her hand up and landing a forceful slap across his cheek .
silence followed , so absolute that eda held her breath so as not to disturb it .
suddenly she was afraid .
rand remained completely still , his face filled with cold fury , his cheek turning angry red where her hand had touched him .
it had taken a great deal for rand to make her that apology , and she had treated it as the mud beneath her feet .
worse , she had questioned his honour and rand held nothing as dear as his honour .
he knew its value , and he knew how it felt to bear a stain upon it .
had he not done so all these years on account of the battle for calis ?
the silence stretched out , and yet still rand said nothing , he could not trust himself to speak , but was feverishly trying to control his temper .
eda could not say a word either , her throat had closed and she wasnt sure she could utter a sound .
over rands shoulder she saw the camp and , thinking only of escape , made to walk away .
rands hand closed around her upper arm , his fingers hard and unyielding .
be still !
he commanded .
eda could do naught but obey him and gaze with longing at the camp .
she knew she should not have come .
you think it a dishonour that i have accorded you the respect of apologising for my actions , a thing i have done for no other woman ?
his voice sent an unpleasant chill down her spine .
you think it a dishonour that i should realise that my behaviour toward you was not what it should have been ?
he paused , waiting for her to reply , but eda remained dumb .
rand shook her a little .
answer me !
i ... but the ...
i want to go back to the camp now .
and so you shall , but first i shall show you what it is to be treated with dishonour !
rands arm slid around her waist and eda found she could no longer breathe , with a sigh she leaned into his embrace as he kissed her .
then , as suddenly as he had kissed her , she was released .
what is it ?
eda tried to gather her scattered wits together .
rand stared down at her in a bemused way , as though he were trying to find the answer to a riddle .
randwulf ?
you were enjoying it , were you not ?
eda blushed fierily .
were not you ?
she countered boldly .
yes , but i always knew that i would .
he paused .
if i had thought that you would be so enthusiastic , nothing could have made me wait this long .
eda snuggled her head against his shoulder .
if only i had known , she lamented with a laugh .
i would have arranged for a private moment alone in the orchard at the fort !
for a moment there was silence .
did i do something wrong ?
she asked at last .
rand looked startled at the question .
something wrong ?
when we when i she blushed awkwardly .
did i do something to anger you before ?
rand felt rather unwell .
he knew that his behaviour had been a cause for reproach , but he had never supposed that eda would think it her fault that he had pulled away from her all those years before .
no , eda , you did nothing wrong .
it was i who did wrong .
eda swallowed jerkily and brushed an errant tear from her eye .
it made rand feel like a fiend .
he supposed he was .
eda , if i ask you something , something you might not like , would you answer me ?
a wary look came into edas eyes .
i do not know .
would you try ?
he pressed .
eda nodded .
when we were ... friends ... you liked me a little , did you not ?
eda averted her face studiously , focusing on the trees .
after a while she nodded hurriedly .
rand took a deep breath .
do you think that you could like me again ?
eda kept her face turned , but after a few moments hesitation her head moved fractionally in an affirmative nod .
do you think that you could do more than just like me ?
that is too much ...
i can not tell you that .
rand felt as though something had withered inside of him , leaving a bitter taste in his mouth .
it was as though all hope had gone , leaving him suddenly bleak .
forgive me , i should never have asked you , should not have supposed that you could .
eda saw the disappointment fill his face and realised he had not understood her .
reaching out she clutched his arm as he turned away from her .
i could not tell you that until first you had told me ... she broke off swallowing with difficulty .
i have revealed so much , but you you have told me nothing at all .
enlightenment dawned in rands eyes , and he lifted her hand to his lips .
i have always loved you , eda , but there are complications .
as he spoke he slipped an arm around her waist pulling her closer again .
you did not know the truth , and i confess that i did not wish you to learn it .
when i was with you i was free of him , i felt worthy .
i thought that if i told you the truth you would think that i was like my father .
i would not have thought such a thing , replied eda softly .
that is ... you do not understand .
he shook his head .
what you said before that i was dishonourable , it angered me because my honour is not spotless .
my house will always bear the shame of calis .
he paused , his voice coming with difficulty .
and anyone who is associated with us must bear that shame also .
eda was silent , knowing that he had not finished and giving him time that he might collect his thoughts .
tis hard for me to talk about i know that i have no right to ask any lady to join herself to me and i promised myself never to ask .
only a fool would put himself in the position of being rejected .
for a time both were silent , and eda waited in expectant excitement for rands next words .
it soon became apparent that he had said all he was going to say .
he had gone as far as his pride would let him .
now it was up to her she must go to him , for he would never ask her to .
rands pride sprang , in part , from not wishing to inflict that which he loved with the shame that he bore .
she understood it and she could not really fault the decision .
now everything depended on her .
rand pulled away , his arm falling from her waist , and she realised that she had been silent too long .
rand had taken her silence as rejection .
rand she hesitated , struggling to find the right words .
you have always been kind enough to call me lady eda , but we both know that i am no lady .
my father was a creole who knew not what to do with a female child .
had i been a boy , he would have had use of me .
i suppose i was too young to cook and clean , and not strong enough to help on the farm .
what i mean to tell you is that i can bring naught to you but my person and , eda swallowed convulsively as her face flooded with colour , and the affection i feel for you .
if you count me worthy , i would be yours .
for a moment rand felt almost euphoric .
this was what he had hoped for that in explaining to her his situation she would make it possible for him to claim her .
yet now that she had he felt little better than a thief , underhandedly coming by something he had no right to .
great goodness but scruples were vile things to live with !
eda stepped forward , burying her flushed face in rands shoulder and wrapping her arms around him .
rand ?
please ... rand looked down at the soft creature nestled within his arms .
scruples be damned !
who needed them anyway ?
with that cheering thought he turned eda to face him , kissing her with the fervour of a man who could not quite believe his good fortune .
you are mine now , eda , and i swear you shall never regret it .
a slow smile curled edas lips and she reached out hand to touch his cheek .
yes ... but you may , she answered mischievously .
i can be quite a handful !
rand looked down at her his eyes narrowed .
not with me , he stated firmly , for i know how to handle you ... do i not ?
eda blushed thinking of the kisses they had just shared .
it was very likely that he would be able to keep her in line .
do you intend to settle all of our arguments that way ?
she asked curiously .
great goodness , you intend to argue with me !
well , tis sure to happen sometimes .
as your lord and master , you are not permitted to argue with me i believe it says so somewhere in the bible .
besides , he continued , his voice becoming reproachful , why would you even want to ?
eda laughed , playfully slapping him on the shoulder .
you can ask that , when you irritate me thus ?
now you are just being bad tempered , and thats no way to please a man .
fortunately though , rand cuddled her a little closer , grinning , i have a cure for that .
chapter thirty one lord brogan dismounted and looked around him the camp was bustling with activity .
he turned to the soldier who held the horses reign .
take me to lord rafe .
forgive me , master , but lord rafe is not here .
lord brogan fixed the soldier with a clear , all seeing gaze .
then where is he ?
he has followed lord kyule .
where to ?
i i know not , master , stammered the soldier .
lord brogan thought for a moment .
then you had best take me to see master finan .
i am sorry , master , but i do not think ... that is , master finan has been hurt , and lady adele does not wish him to be disturbed .
lord ramm , who had dismounted with some difficulty , owing to his rather generous frame , staggered to lord brogans side in time to overhear this last statement .
lady adele ?
he wheezed .
what is she doing here ?
the unfortunate soldier looked from one to the other of the men and lost his power of speech .
he gasped and opened his mouth a few times but no words were forthcoming .
i think it would be best then if i see lady adele , returned lord brogan thoughtfully .
the soldier bowed , eager to have them off his hands , and beckoned that they should follow him .
he took them to rafes tent and left them with assurance that lady adele would be with them shortly .
lord brogan glanced around the tent .
it contained a makeshift bed and he could see a few sprigs of holly had been placed around to brighten the otherwise sparse space .
lord brogan reflected that , unless his son had developed an uncharacteristic interest in fauna , the quarters must have been delivered over to the ladies .
his musings were interrupted by the arrival of lady adele .
as she entered the tent she inclined her head toward the two men .
my lords .
lord brogan took in the thick plait of hair , large soft eyes , and smooth skin , before replying to her salutation .
you are wondering what has happened to your son no doubt ?
she asked .
lord brogan listened to the husky tones in appreciation .
yes , i had expected to find rafe present .
however , on my arrival i found not only that he had departed , but that also finan is unavailable .
a faint blush of colour stained lady adeles cheeks .
you must forgive me , my lord .
finan has been wounded and i asked that he might be given time to rest without disturbance .
i never meant , of course , that you should be forbidden entry .
lord brogan waved his hand in an airy gesture of dismissal .
if finan needs to rest then he must rest , he replied .
is his wound very serious ?
adele heard genuine worry in his voice and relaxed a little .
he is fine now , but still a little weak .
lord brogan did not look like his son , adele decided .
his face betrayed nothing of his thoughts yet rafes reflected his thoughts and feelings clearly .
lord brogan was very still and restive , so completely opposite to his sons impatient temperament .
the only similarity adele could make out was their dark eyes , smouldering with great vitality .
lord brogan , aware of adeles scrutiny , was in turn inspecting her .
she seemed very self possessed for one so young and , despite the fact that she knew neither himself nor ramm , her attitude was unfailingly friendly .
she looked the merest child , biddable and meek , her beautiful eyes stared out with a faintly dazed expression of wonder .
delicate that was how she looked .
a dainty , cosy armful .
that the exterior was misleading he had no doubt , something told him that this pretty little girl had a fiery core .
perhaps you would be so kind as to explain to me why my son is following lord kyule ?
asked lord brogan , settling himself into a seat by the fire .
lady adeles brow furrowed in concentration .
lord brogan smiled appreciatively rafe was indeed a fortunate young man .
tis all a little complicated .
i am afraid i know very little of the problem , only that which lord leofric has told me oh , so he is here is he ?
where is that boy of mine ?
lord ramm interrupted suddenly .
is he off on this wild chase as well ?
adele shook her head .
no lord leofric and anlaf are practicing with the sword i believe .
adele frowned again .
or did they say dagger ?
she asked herself musingly .
lord ramm let loose a foul expletive .
did you hear it !
he bellowed .
what ails the lad ?
the frippery , lazy , no good ...
such compliments , father , and all at once you unman me .
leofric entered the tent , anlaf close behind him .
lord brogan .
leofric of drogand bowed slightly .
he had an amused light hearted smile on his face but lord brogan could see that it was a little brittle .
may i present anlaf of gradock to you .
anlaf bowed to lord brogan and inclined his head stiffly to lord ramm .
even before anlaf had met leofric of drogand , he had respected his reputation of valour .
leofrics skill with the sword was said to be matchless , and his prowess with a dagger almost as spectacular .
his willingness to follow his friend into battle was spoken well of by everyone .
now anlaf had met him his respect had increased , and been set in stone the second leofric had demanded to see him wield his sword .
leofric had laughed , saying that it was well known that stefan of wrenlight never took on a pupil unless they showed unique aptitude .
leofric had taken the time to study anlafs skill , giving praise where praise was due , and had even taught him some few tricks that were helpful in difficult situations .
anlaf had been blissful at the chance to test his mettle against a master such as leofric .
it was , therefore , with disgust that anlaf heard lord ramms words to his son .
with the unconcerned arrogance of a gradock he allowed his distain to show to those present .
lord brogan looked the youth over .
he was surprised even if his face did not betray it .
what was a gradock doing in rafes camp ?
where is rafe , leofric ?
he took kenric and daegmund of gradock and followed lord kyule .
lord brogan was silent as he absorbed these facts .
perhaps , leofric , it would be best if you tell me from the start what has happened ?
asked lord brogan .
leofric nodded but , before he could open his mouth to speak , rand entered the tent .
adele , finan is trying to get up again .
i do not think ... his voice trailed off as his eyes took in lord ramm and lord brogans presence .
for a moment there was silence and then lord ramm lunged to his feet .
murderous fiend !
he roared , pulling his sword from its sheath .
anlaf stepped forwards and his sword met lord ramms .
with a deft movement he had removed the sword from the older mans hand .
lord ramm was left grasping his aching wrist and glaring at anlaf .
you are a receptive pupil , anlaf , murmured leofric with a grin .
do you not know that he is a targhe ?
demanded lord ramm furiously .
his outburst went unnoticed by the rest of the room , and lord brogans eyes met rands .
tis a long time since last i saw you , rand .
you look well , lord brogan .
rand of targhe bowed respectfully .
lord brogan looked his lost foster son over slowly .
he had changed little physically taller of course , and broader , but instantly recognisable as the lad he had once been .
the difference was in his determinedly proud bearing .
his eyes seemed old , as though he had seen the worst side of humanity and been powerless before it .
to rand lord brogan seemed no different .
the same omniscient light shone in his eyes , heavily cloaked by an air of extreme weariness .
as a boy he had thought lord brogan could read his mind somehow his foster father had seen everything that had been done in secret .
the same suspicion was still vague in his mind now .
lord brogan turned and addressed ramm .
perhaps , ramm , it would be best to postpone hostilities for the moment ?
lord ramm , still nursing his hand , growled and retreated to his seat .
now , leofric i believe you were on the verge of telling us what had befallen you all .
leofrics eyes were bright with an amused admiration and he nodded .
i fear that for the whole story you will have to apply to rafe , but i will tell you all that i know , he replied .
rafe sent finan here in his stead to pose as rafe of valrek .
he sought to deflect attention from the fact that he was actually collecting lady adele .
i believe he feared for her safety should his plans to retrieve her become common knowledge .
his idea , from what i can gather from finan , was that he should deliver her to valrek , and then journey here to explain his actions to lord merrodon and lord coughly .
however he , lady adele , and lady eda were attacked a days journey from the fort .
who is lady eda ?
inquired lord brogan .
the lady adeles companion , replied leofric .
rand saved them and together they journeyed here that they might have the protection of valreks army on the return home .
he paused , feeling that his omission of certain facts was only wise .
after they arrived finan was called to merrodon in his guise as rafe .
on his arrival he was attacked on lord merrodons command .
he suffered greatly from fever and did not recover until lady adele and lady eda managed to cool him .
somehow lord merrodon managed to find out that he had injured finan rather than rafe , and so he travelled to gradock to implore lord daegmunds help to finish that which he had started .
daegmund bound him and brought him here as a prisoner .
he had discovered that lord merrodon was not acting of his own originality , but was under orders from lord kyule .
leofric had expected some surprise to be shown at this juncture by lord brogan , but he merely nodded his head grimly .
it is as i thought .
lord kyule ?
lord ramm slapped his hand against the arm of his chair .
have i not always said that he were a devious knave ?
lord brogan could remember many epithets that lord ramm had bestowed upon lord kyule over the years , but these had always been of a belittling nature .
he did not think that this was the best time to argue the point .
continue , leofric .
with this foreknowledge we set a trap for lord kyule , who was journeying to merrodon that he might see rafes body as proof that lord merrodon had accomplished his task .
it was decided that lord merrodon would lure him into the great hall with the promise of inspecting rafes body .
he was met instead with daegmund , kenric , and a very much alive rafe .
meanwhile outside our combined armies had surrounded lord kyules .
however lord merrodon betrayed us and hid some of his men that they might come through a concealed back door and rescue lord kyule .
in the fight that ensued lord kyule managed to escape , and it took a while for us to regain control and set out after him .
rafe commanded that rand and i stay here to look after finan and the ladies , whilst making sure that the men kept merrodon in order .
brogan nodded abruptly .
i see .
he turned to rand .
it seems i owe you much , rand both my son and a daughter .
relief entered rands eyes and he took lord brogans outstretched hand eagerly .
i am only happy that i was there to help .
i too .
incidentally why were you there ?
asked lord brogan serenely .
rands expression froze .
still the same lord brogan , he reflected wryly .
there was something uncanny about the way he could lull a person into a false sense of security , only to destroy them with a single blow .
lord brogan waited in silence , his very assurance that his question would be answered making it impossible to ignore .
i was following them , i wished to see that they arrived safely at their destination .
i see .
lord brogan glanced around the tent unhurriedly .
is there anything you want to tell me , rand ?
he queried .
suddenly rand was eleven years old again , standing before lord brogan after having committed some heinous crime of rafes instigation , listening to those selfsame words , said in that selfsame way , as all the while lord brogans knowing eyes rested unwaveringly upon him .
he had always cracked , they all had even rafe could not stand before that all seeing gaze .
it was no different this time .
i have known adele since she was seven , rand blurted out after a shamefully brief attempt at concealment .
i see .
rand squirmed , lord brogan could say a great deal with those two words .
i searched for three years .
i wanted that is , i wished to let her know that i was sorry to tell her that i would do anything in my power to make recompense , he paused .
at first i did not tell her who i was i didnt want her to be afraid of me .
over time we were able to become friends first and she learnt to trust me .
for the first time a smile lightened lord brogans face .
you lived too long with rafe , rand , he chuckled .
i fear you will never recover from the experience .
for a moment rand wondered what he could mean and then he realised .
he and rafe had chosen the same path with regard to adele to first deceive and befriend her , and then to risk all by telling her the truth .
rand ?
what is amiss with finan ?
broke in adele .
for a moment rand stared at her in confusion and then his eyes cleared .
he says he wishes to question lord merrodon himself .
why ?
asked leofric .
rand made an impatient gesture .
he said he wishes to be sure that lord merrodon speaks the truth and does not lie .
then we had better stop him before he injures himself , stated leofric resignedly .
tell him that i wish to speak with him in his tent , leofric .
it might make your task easier , instructed lord brogan .
it will indeed help , sir , thank you , replied leofric , bowing .
leofric ?
yes sir ?
i think it would be best if you could take your father somewhere where he will be comfortable , and you should find him sustenance .
leofric bowed his acceptance of the task , wondering what lord brogan was about .
generally he tried to keep father and son apart , that there might be as little friction between them as possible .
he never pushed them together .
lord ramm stood and stretched .
aye , i need some food in my stomach , he sighed as he followed his son from the tent .
anlaf moved after them along with rand .
adele hesitated , not wishing to leave lord brogan alone .
i wish to speak with you , lady adele , smiled lord brogan , gesturing to a chair across from his .
of course , my lord , replied lady adele , seating herself .
she did not like to admit it but the calm and dignified man before her made her nervous .
she could not tell what he was thinking .
lord brogan took a look at her face and saw that , although her gaze was unfocused and innocent , she was closed and guarded against him .
were you happy at the fort , lady adele ?
he questioned softly .
adele seemed a little taken aback .
yes , i was very happy there .
it must have been hard to leave .
yes ... in a way .
adele paused .
however i had always known that one day i would leave .
mistress ardith made sure that i was prepared .
lord brogan nodded .
from what leofric told me it seems as though your journey here was thwart with hardship .
adele smiled and lord brogan noticed a soft light entering her eyes that emphasized the dreamy quality that they already held .
rafe protected us from the worst it was actually rather fun .
lord brogan raised his eyebrows .
perhaps you might tell me of it ?
there is not so very much to tell .
at first i was under the impression that his name was finn .
he did not tell us much about the journey we would take , and we had not realised that we would be camping out .
i had never ridden before and was a little stiff , but lord rafe was very kind even though it slowed our progress for the next few days .
adeles eyes had taken on a faraway look and her lips were touched with a reminiscent smile .
he cooked us pork over the campfire .
rafe has always been adept at living out of doors .
lord brogan paused .
when did he tell you the truth ?
adele turned from him and gazed into the fire .
here , in fact , in this very tent , she answered .
lord brogan thought he could hear a tinge of bashful confusion in her voice .
lord brogan hid a smile it seemed that rafe was not so backward in the matters of a man and a maid as he had supposed .
it must have been difficult for you to accept .
adele was silent , unsure how to answer .
i think that it was difficult for us both at first , she ventured at last .
for a time there was silence as lord brogan studied her face , and then he sat back in his chair .
you know i remember the first time i saw you .
his words startled adele , they were so far removed from that which had gone before .
i was sitting in my tent , trying to forget the bloody mess that existed outside .
it was the evening after the battle for calis , i remember that i had just managed to induce rafe to rest lord brogans eyes clouded .
he had sustained some wounds but it was not their pain that kept him from sleeping it was evorics death .
lord brogan paused , seemingly lost in his reverie .
as silence stretched out between them , adele felt emboldened to ask a question .
lord rafe told me once that he had lost one of his greatest friends in the first battle in which he ever fought .
her eyes widened in horror .
was calis was his first battle ?
lord brogan nodded sadly , his eyes filled with grief .
evoric of gournay , he was finans youngest brother .
adele covered her mouth with her hand , her throat tightening with emotion .
i managed to make rafe rest , continued lord brogan sadly .
then i returned to my own tent .
that was when one of my men brought a young woman before me .
she had the prettiest little girl with her big blue eyes and hair touched with sunshine .
he smiled .
adele fingered the thick plait that lay over her shoulder , a regretful look on her face .
tis much darker now .
yes you look very much like your mother .
adeles startled eyes met his .
you knew my mother ?
and your father we were good friends .
i knew him from youth .
they were so very proud of you , the only daughter they had .
adele nodded , eagerly leaning forward .
but i had three older brothers .
osric , rice , and perry , nodded lord brogan , he reached out his hand and covered hers .
i am sorry for your loss .
adele blinked back the tears that gathered in her eyes .
of all people , lord valrek , you have done a great deal for me , and have nothing to be sorry to me for .
why did you care for me ?
i am of course grateful but she broke off , tears tightening her throat .
to sacrifice your son that i might have a home ... adele did not look at him , but lord brogan did not need her to .
her voice , as well as her words , had told him all he needed to know .
you are very fond of my son , are you not , my dear ?
asked lord brogan softly .
adele turned to him , forcing her eyes to meet his , and saw that his gaze was tender .
yes .
i had always hoped that such a thing might happen , continued lord brogan .
i did not like to think of you forced into a course because none other was open to you .
lord brogan squeezed her hand .
you will make rafe a good wife , i think .
of all men he most deserves it .
on his side all i can promise you is that he will make you an interesting husband .
he is kind and generous , and will do everything in his power to keep you safe and happy .
he is a little fearsome sometimes , prone to an alarming exuberance , and possessed of an unpredictability that can catch a person somewhat off guard .
however , he has a good heart and always seeks to stay true to it .
adele nodded , the flush on her face refusing to be quelled .
lord brogan took pity upon her embarrassment .
and now i think that we had best visit finan .
he rose from his chair , offering adele his arm .
they were both smiling as they walked to finans tent .
chapter thirty two rafe returned to the camp at dusk with the bitter knowledge that lord kyule was lost to him .
it was not precisely that he wished for revenge , that he would have taken pleasure in killing his enemy .
it was that he hated knowing that there was someone out there who would harm his kin as a means to hurt him .
it was not only himself that was in danger now , but his father , his mother , esme and aisly , finan and leofric , rand and eda , daegmund and anlaf and , of course , adele .
until lord kyule was dead anyone with whom rafe had friendship was marked for his wrath .
he dismounted , throwing his reins to kenric , and made his way to finans tent .
the hum of voices became more distinct as he neared .
the light from the fire dazzled his eyes and for a few moments he stood on the threshold blinded .
rafe !
it was leofrics voice and he turned , blinking against the light .
hello , fricka .
his was so intent in his search for adele that at first he did not see his father .
you look tired , rafe , lord brogan commented .
a few quick strides and rafe was on his knee before his sire , lord brogans hand clasped tightly in his .
what do you do here , sir ?
i am come to see what problem takes my son so long to resolve , answered lord brogan with a smile .
rafe looked towards leofric .
how much have you told him ?
only that which i knew , which was not so very much , returned leofric .
did you find him ?
asked rand eagerly .
rafe shook his head and , held out a hand toward adele .
she stepped forward and rafe pulled her to rest against him , laying his cheek briefly against her hair .
you are tired , finn , she murmured .
a little , he confessed .
i wish you to take notice , adele i have returned safely , just as i promised i would .
i told you i would take care , did i not ?
he turned back to rand .
kyule made for mercias border once he was on king aethelbalds lands there was little we could do .
a clever scheme to go to king aethelbald for protection , he has much information that will be of use to mercia , mused lord brogan .
tis more than that , sir rand is here because it became known to him that a lord of wessex wished to kill both me and adele .
lord kyule has planned this for some time .
why ?
why would he wish you dead , it still makes no sense to me , broke in finan .
rafe sighed wearily .
i believe that mostly it is because he resents the power and influence that valrek wields .
he seems to think that we have been treated with an unfair favour .
rafe nodded toward lord brogan .
you remember , father , how lord kyule came to prince aedelreds and my aid during the battle of calis ?
lord brogan nodded .
yes , of course it was his bravery that earned him his position as adviser to king ine .
rafe rubbed a hand against the rasping growth of the day old beard upon his chin .
he seems to think his valour was not adequately repaid and i was favoured above him .
great goodness , why ?
because adele was given to me and not to him .
he said that we had grasped at the power her lands would give us and demanded calis for ourselves .
rafe was acutely aware of adeles presence leaning trustingly against him , listening as the vile insinuation escaped his mouth .
i see , answered lord brogan , observing the fact that his son would no longer meet his eyes .
i do not understand why he should wish to have killed adele , however .
rafe shook his head .
i can not see that he ever meant to i think that rather he wished to have her himself .
for a moment there was silence .
i think , my lords , that it is time that eda and i retired .
adele made to pull away from him , but rafe would not permit it .
she looked up , eyes questioning .
it would please me if you would stay .
there is nothing that will be said in this room that you can not hear , adele , nothing that i wish hidden from you .
adeles soft gaze rested on him for a moment before she nodded , a slight smile lightening her face as she relaxed back into his embrace .
a hush descended in the tent .
it stretched on for so long that rand almost decided to leave , despite the fact that the tent was his quarters .
leofric developed a hazy idea of setting out to find his father , even though such an action could only end badly .
before either of them could put these plans into action , lord brogan spoke .
is there something you wish to ask me , rafe ?
rafe turned from his contemplation of the floor , his wretchedness of spirit visible upon his face .
why did you betroth me to adele , sir ?
complete stillness greeted this question , and lord brogan weighed his every word carefully before he spoke it .
i need you to believe that , first and foremost , it was for her safety , to give her a home where she would be properly looked after .
but that was not the whole reason ?
lord brogan sighed , shaking his head .
no , rafe it was not the whole reason , he answered wearily .
kingdoms exist by a careful balance of power , for power corrupts and if one person possesses too much , chaos ensues .
even a king has limitations to his power he must rely on his lords allegiance to him to keep his kingdom and his kingship safe .
that means that he must keep his lords happy .
more than anything the role of king is of mediator , not of dictator .
if his lords do not find his rule pleasing , then they will remove the kingship from him and give it to another .
lord brogan paused .
at that time there was much unrest against king ine because he would not declare war on mercia for their harbouring lord targhe .
lady adele needed protection and , as she had no family left , the only way that she would remain safe was to betroth her in to another noble house .
however , once she married , her husband would take control of her lands .
lord brogan sat back in his chair , his eyes firmly fixed on his son .
now if the family into which she married wished to pursue war with mercia , with the power of two houses behind them , they could rip the kingship from king ine and establish a new king who would declare war on mercia .
of the houses that offered for lady adele , there were only three that were suitable .
drogand , who had made it plain that they wished to go to war .
kyule , who said whatever seemed most favourable to the person he was talking to , or valrek .
we were the only ones whom king ine could trust not to turn upon him .
as an already powerful house , giving us calis would seal enough power in his favour so that , should it come to civil war , he would be victorious .
that is why your suit was accepted above all others , rafe .
why not marry her to prince aedelred ?
because king ine could not be sure that his son would resist the temptation of being king in his fathers stead .
why did you not tell me this before ?
because it did not matter , responded lord brogan .
these are the secondary considerations the most important thing was always lady adeles safety .
rafe nodded , but his face was still troubled .
lord brogan reached out and placed his hand upon his sons shoulder .
you should get some sleep , rafe , he counselled .
things will seem much clearer in the morning .
rafe nodded but remained standing before his father , determination in his stance .
i wanted to tell you , sir , that you were right and i should have listened to your advice , confessed rafe .
much trouble did come from my deceiving adele , just as you said it would .
lord brogan gifted his son with a warm smile .
it takes a brave man to admit his mistakes .
you are a son to take pride in rafe and i am proud of you , more so in this moment than i can express .
rafe did not immediately head for his quarters in leofrics tent .
he was very tired , but the events of the day were still too large in his mind for him to surrender to sleep .
adele had voiced a wish to retire and he had immediately risen to escort her .
rand was following with eda , but had shown enough understanding to take a different route to their shared destination .
adele sighed and snuggled closer against his warmth .
the air around them was cold and rafe could feel her trembling .
the day has been eventful , finn .
rafe nodded his agreement as he ran a hand lightly up her arm .
too eventful .
it vexes you that lord kyule managed to evade capture , does it not ?
questioned adele gently .
think you he will cause yet more trouble ?
such hate as he possesses will not fade .
he will continue to cause what trouble he may .
adele shivered again .
have no fear , sweetheart i will kill the man who thinks to hurt you .
adele shoved against him playfully .
i have no fear for myself , finn , how many times must i tell you that ?
i know you will keep me safe .
i worry only for you .
rafe was so pleased by this assurance that their progress through the camp was halted for some considerable time .
adele , you were not upset by my fathers words tonight , were you ?
he asked gently .
why should i have been ?
rafe shook his head .
i wondered if you would perhaps believe it was your lands that i covet , rather than you yourself .
in the darkness she could not see the grin she heard in his voice .
despite your constant assurances otherwise ?
i never said no , you do not leave such important matters to mere words .
rafe sighed regretfully .
words rarely help me to express the things i feel , adele .
she rested her head against his shoulder .
i had noticed , and i am glad of it .
you are ?
adele smiled at the surprise she could hear in his voice .
the saying of such things is only easy if one has had much practise .
it pleases me to know that you have not spoken such things often .
ever , corrected rafe .
he felt adeles arms tighten , drawing them closer together .
good .
there was a blissful quality to her voice , and rafe felt rather proud of himself for being responsible for her good humour .
finn !
what are you ?
she never finished the question , but found herself lifted from the ground and silenced .
after a moment though , rafe pulled back .
i do not mind you calling me finn sometimes , adele .
indeed he smiled , pressing his lips to her forehead .
i have noticed that you only do so when we are pleasantly engaged .
however , do not dare call me by the wrong name when we take our vows .
i do not need every one thinking that you would rather have had finan .
adele laughed light heartedly and leaned even closer to him , a feat he had not thought possible , to slide her arms around his neck .
i promise you the day we wed no one will have any doubt as to my perfect satisfaction with my groom .
rafe grinned and touched his lips to hers .
good .
the end epilogue dear reader , so many were the consequences of calis lives lost , or changed by an unforeseen chain of events .
family loyalties were redirected , their fortunes made more , or less , certain .
promises had been made , some never to be kept .
you ask , dear reader , of the promise for which this book is named .
yet i fear the answer would depend upon whom you asked .
countless promises were made in the aftermath of calis , promises of protection , of hate and retribution , and also of repayment .
even after the battle had ended it inspired and brought about many new promises of love , of friendship , and of a finish .
it is , therefore , for you to decide the promise of this particular tale .
and yet so many promises , so many stories , so many secrets are yet untold .
which , dear reader , would you have me regale you with next ?
lady quill the vow the lady quill chronicles book 2 finan of gournay had fought his entire life to protect the house of valrek from her enemies .
after the loss of evoric , he had vowed never to lose another brother .
esme of valrek had loved finan since childhood .
all she wanted was for her friend to regain the happiness that his family missed so much .
when valrek is betrayed by one of its own , finan and esme find themselves thrown together .
can finan come to realise that , despite the loss he has suffered , his life neednt be the prison he has made it ?
broken city broken city series deeta richards has never seen the outside world .
before she was born a banking crisis brought civilisation to an end , and now no one leaves the safety of the compounds unless they need to .
yet , deeta still dreams of seeing more than the building she was born in .
tom is in the guard , this group are the only people that the tribal elders allow to leave the compound and tom knows only too well that deeta could never survive the harshness that exists outside .
when tragedy strikes deeta and her sister jan find themselves captured by a hostile tribe .
why does tom know so much about these people ?
and why do they know so much about him ?
as this mystery draws to a climax , they discover that their friend tom is not quite what he seems ... fracture the chronicles of discord in a world torn apart by war , three nations stand divided .
the free nation senator burton and his son ben arrive in the tula strongholds for peace talks , but find that a treaty between the two nations has a price .
confronted by a world of sedate tranquility the two men are appalled to learn that the tula council rules with and iron rod of fear and repression .
the council removes anyone who dares to stand in the way of their reforms , and ben uncovers a secret that puts his life in danger .
the tula astra has been pressured in to working for the very council that threatens to kill her loved ones .
no stranger to loss , the precariously balance world she has constructed begins to fracture when ben starts asking questions about her past .
as her deepest secrets are uncovered , astra finds there are mysteries in her childhood that even she is unaware of .
the una kai is apprentice headman to the una people .
unaccountably called upon to sacrifice his honor in the name of peace , kais hatred toward this injustice proves all consuming .
if the time comes , will he be able to forgive the woman that betrayed him ?
when these three worlds collide ugly truths come to light on every side .
is there any way to make peace , or will the world end in discord ?
the appalachian chronicles shades of gray seneca fox copyright 2003 by seneca fox published by seneca fox at smashwords the appalachian chronicles shades of gray copyright 2003 by seneca fox this book is a work of fiction .
names , characters and incidents are products of the authors imagination and are used fictitiously unless otherwise specified .
all rights reserved .
no part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means , including information storage and retrieval systems , without permission in writing from the author , except by a reviewer , who may quote brief passages in a review .
for more information regarding this book contact the following email address appalachianchronicles gmail.com .
smashwords edition license notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each person .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
dedicated to my brother .
introduction my brother max and i are beginning our third month of hiking the appalachian trail .
this is the first thru hike attempt for max and the second for me .
the beginning was difficult , given that max weighed far more than he should have when we started .
in fact , his urgent need for a change in lifestyle is part of what prompted our attempt .
max is a recovering electronic media junkie , just one among the millions of people who have become an unintended consequence of shortsighted ingenuity and affluence .
he exhibited all the classic signs , including endless hours in front of a fifteen hundred dollar , forty two inch wide screen television that featured three hundred and seventy two satellite channels , a theater surround sound system and some kind of computer interfaced box with an uncountable number of games .
he also owned a computer that was complete with internet access , multiple e mail addresses , instant messaging , nobody knows how many hand held video games , and a comfortable couch fronted by a coffee table that was decorated with five remote controls and a continuously refreshed supply of potato chips , sugar coated nuts and other not so nutritious snacks .
like an addict needing more opium to dull his senses , he groped for ever increasing amounts of electronic stimulation and demonstrated great creativity in the avoidance of physical activity .
given the state of maxs health and my history as an exercise enthusiast , i would have forever suffered from a do gooder , guilty conscience if i didnt try to help him .
so here we are , almost nine weeks into a six month anti merchandising march to unheralded glory .
in our first seven weeks we experienced enough challenges to make even the most trail hardened hiker give up .
only days after our adventure began , max fell on an icy slope , crashed into a tree and suffered a deep bruise on his hip .
he was painfully sore , but after two days rest he managed to limp along at a five mile per day pace for a while .
unfortunately , that was about a third of what we needed to average to make it all the way to katahdin , maine before early september .
hiking through north carolina and tennessee took us longer than expected .
some days we experienced a few thousand feet of elevation change , spending nearly all our time going up and down .
i dont know which is harder up or down .
going up with a thirty five pound pack on your back is a fast way to breathlessness .
theres an instrument called the borg scale , which uses numbers ranging from six to twenty to represent the difficulty of ones physical exertion .
an effort equal to a six is about the same as max experienced while watching his fourth episode of all in the family during a rerun marathon on tuesday evenings .
in my profession we sometimes joke with our clients , especially women , that an effort of twenty is comparable to having a baby .
of course , we were just trying to make a point , and somehow i dont think exercise effort compares well with labor pains , but clients get the picture .
when youre hiking uphill with thirty five pounds strapped to your back , you can walk very slowly and still work at a solid sixteen or seventeen on the borg scale .
there are a lot of catch your breath pauses when youre climbing a mountain .
hiking down a mountain is in some ways worse .
going down would quickly get out of control if it werent for the braking action of your thigh muscles .
at first it doesnt seem so bad , like a nice reprieve from climbing .
then with each step down , over and over again , thigh muscles with latin names like rectus femoris and vastus lateralis suffer minute tissue damage .
the accumulated trauma eventually makes your legs feel like theyve been pounded with a meat tenderizer .
mercifully , with a little rest , the sensation dissipates after a few days .
the stretch from erwin to damascus was tough enough on me , but ill never understand how max did it .
hes got the heart of a lion and i think , with good fortune , were going to finish .
a real turning point for us came while we were hiking along the border of southwest virginia and west virginia .
the portion of the trail that runs through virginia constitutes about one quarter of the total distance more than any other state .
hiking through virginia is regarded by many thru hikers as a highlight a mixture of modest grade changes and shady trails interspersed with views of the beautiful shenandoah valley .
the day we entered the state , however , it was cold and dreary .
rain fell for six days straight and max and i were on the brink of giving up .
if it hadnt been for a fellow from west virginia who picked us up at a trailhead and took us home with him for a few days , we probably would have given up .
the last week or so has been good for hiking .
the sun has shone bright each day while temperatures ranged from fifty to sixty degrees .
nighttime temperatures have been no lower than thirty five .
weve walked through the catawba valley , close to roanoke , and now we are north of lynchburg .
i have important memories of this region of the virginia mountains .
known as a good place to hunt deer , black bear and wild turkey , several families from my hometown had once owned or rented cabins in the region .
in the summertime , the same families would head for the hills to escape the oppressive heat and humidity of eastern virginia .
as a young boy , i was fortunate enough to spend some time here with a friend named carter .
his parents owned a cabin on jennings creek .
on several occasions , typically in the summer , i was invited to spend a week with carter and his family at the cabin .
those were good times the long days roaming through the woods and swimming in the creek , the lazy afternoons that ended with mad dashes across the yard to catch fireflies and nights spent telling ghost stories and playing childish pranks on one another .
during the dry summers , when the creek was running low we would dam it up , raising the water level enough to create a shallow pool .
if we were lucky , we might even corner a lonely trout and spend the afternoon feeding it insects .
besides the still lingering feeling of great freedom , there are two things i remember most about those visits to jennings creek .
the first was my introduction to the appalachian trail it happened one afternoon when carter and i set out to discover the source of jennings creek .
wed been hiking upstream for about an hour when we encountered a man sitting next to the creek with his bare feet dangling in the water .
a large , heavy looking backpack , hiking stick and his socks and shoes were setting on the bank next to him .
carter and i were still young and uninhibited enough to approach the man without any reservations .
when we asked him where he was going , he said , maine .
well , you can imagine how the minds of two preadolescents were energized by the thought of someone hiking hundreds of thousands of miles from virginia to maine .
the man became an instant hero whom we assumed must be some unknown descendant of meriwether lewis or william clark .
immediately , we peppered the weary thru hiker with questions all of which he graciously answered .
when we finally released him to his journey we returned to the cabin , vowing every step of the way to one day hike the appalachian trail .
ten years later , we did .
the second thing i remember most about the summer days at jennings creek began one morning when carter and i were exploring the woods after a terrible storm passed through the night before .
thinking back , i now believe that a twister accompanied that storm because there was a clear path through a section of the woods where a number of tall oaks , some of them four feet in diameter , had fallen .
carters father explained that those trees would have normally withstood the high winds , but on this occasion the ground was saturated from weeks of rain .
standing on the trunk of one of the fallen oaks i was amazed that a tree so big could be so easily toppled and a new understanding of the powerful forces of nature moved me .
unfortunately , when we returned the next year the fallen trees were gone in fact , most of the woods that we enjoyed exploring were gone clear cut by a logging company .
carter and i were devastated when we realized that our summers at jennings creek would never be the same .
it was a coming of age experience that we felt was forced upon us .
that night we took an old white pillowcase and painted a picture of the earth on the center of it .
the next day we climbed onto the roof of the cabin and attached our homemade flag to the television antenna .
a few days later we left jennings creek for the last time .
many years have passed since those cherished summers .
even so , this part of the virginia mountains , as you will soon discover , continues to influence my life in important ways .
the story that im about to tell begins just a few miles from the jennings creek area , near a place called thunder hill .
i may 26th 9 30 am half listening to max whistle , i sat checking mileage estimates for our next week of hiking .
he slowly circled his cup above the few remaining embers of our fire , while i tried to make out his tune .
the song sounded as if it was an octave too low and each note was drawn out , perhaps , an extra eighth or quarter .
i couldnt tell if the tune was meant to be a soothing one , like the sound of a parent softly singing a child to sleep or , if it was a lonely message to someone who had been lost long ago .
the truth is i couldnt tell if his song had any intent at all , but i could see as he gazed into the fire that there was something longing in his eyes .
when clipping along the trail at an energetic pace , max typically whistles classic sounds from the 60s and early 70s .
nearly a half generation younger , i prefer the sounds of the late 70s and 80s .
while max saunters along whistling no where man , im often pounding the trail a few hundred yards ahead and breathlessly singing running on empty .
on a rare occasion we might find common ground in a tune like let it be or stairway to heaven .
somewhere along the way , though , a subtle change had come over max .
it was as if the many long , and sometimes lonely , days on the trail had allowed something from his past , something repressed , to creep back to the edge of his consciousness .
and , for the last few weeks , at the beginning and end of each day , especially when he sat alone engaged in mindless activity , his repertoire was more spiritual .
he swirled his cup again and i listened carefully .
he was whistling swing low , sweet chariot .
i wanted to ask him why he had chosen that tune , but i felt that any inquiry would be a rude intrusion , so i was content to wait , believing that in time the answer would be revealed .
suddenly stopping in the middle of his song , max gave me a distracted look .
where do we go today ?
he asked .
matts creek shelter .
how far ?
max learned weeks ago that each days destination was chosen in part to maintain a minimum daily mileage .
todays distance was average , and the hike was mostly downhill .
its a little over twelve miles and three thousand feet net change in elevation .
minus three thousand feet , i emphasized .
three thousand , he said , sounding a bit more cheerful .
sounds like my kind of day .
a slight breeze was blowing from the northwest .
the cool temperature and the clear horizon promised a good day for hiking .
i looked at max and drawled , yeah .
looks perfect to me .
max began to swirl his cup over the fire again and he asked , matts creek .
who do you suppose matt was or is ?
i folded the waterproof trail chart and slipped it into my pack and considered maxs question .
i often wondered who or what the various landmarks along the trail were named after .
i knew the significance of some names like the nearby spyglass hill , where confederate sentries kept a lookout for union troops that marauded up and down the shenandoah valley during the civil war .
but there were many others lonely places named after people like tinker or campbell .
these names , i realized , represented a piece of history .
a creek first used by a man named tinker to meet a basic need for water or , perhaps , a shelter bearing the name campbell , after an almost forgotten soldier who died for his country .
there were hundreds of these creeks , cliffs , and shelters along the appalachian trail , but i knew little about their history and even less about people they honored .
i was contemplating my previous lack of curiosity when a loud sound ripped through our tranquil morning ritual .
kaboom , boom , boom , oomm , omm !
max jumped up and asked , what was that ?
i dont know thunder ?
dont think so , max said as he looked overhead .
kaboom , boom , boom , oomm , omm !
man !
i exclaimed .
explosives .
a quarry , maybe ?
i looked at max and said , come on , lets climb up there .
i pointed to a nearby ridge and began to run .
max poured out his coffee and followed .
the ridge was probably a hundred feet up , steepest near the top , and there was a side trail with several switchbacks .
sounded like a cannon .
what do you think it is ?
i shouted .
i dont know , max hollered .
we took a shortcut across the first two switchbacks but the hill was too steep to shortcut the others .
kaboom , boom , boom , oomm , omm !
i stopped to listen to the sound echo through the mountains .
we ran as hard as we could .
max and i were panting .
my legs and lungs burned , and the loose soil and rocks sliding out from under my feet slowed me down .
i wanted to ease up , but i lifted my knees and pumped my arms .
i was three quarters of the way up the side trail and max was not far behind .
kaboom , boom , boom , oomm , omm !
rounding the final switchback , i looked out over the horizon .
in the distance i could see the peak called sharp top , but couldnt see anything that would account for the thundering sound .
i stopped running and began to walk .
gasping for air and disoriented , i tried to determine precisely what direction the sound was coming from .
when i crested the ridge and looked across the wide valley i saw multiple lines of people below .
some were wearing what i presumed were uniforms with dark shirts or jackets and blue trousers .
others wore lighter uniforms .
there were lines on either side of the field facing each other .
a few of the men were scattered behind what appeared to be an embankment and others were hiding behind rocks .
beginning to realize what was happening , i held my hand above my eyes in order to focus on the flags held by each army .
one appeared to be an american flag and the other was mostly red .
a confederate flag , i thought .
squinting , as the sun reflected off the many tents that were arranged in an orderly fashion at either end of the battlefield , it became clear to me that this was some kind of mock battle .
kaboom , boom , boom , oomm , omm !
max stepped onto the top of the ridge and we watched rings of smoke rising simultaneously from three separate cannons .
a reenactment , max sighed .
standing half bent over , with his hands on his knees , panting , he added , they have em in the valley all the time .
plumes of smoke rose from muskets and rifles .
a few seconds later we heard the crackle of gunfire .
why ?
i asked .
who cares , he replied as though it was too much trouble to explain .
he stepped away from the ridge .
im not sure why i responded to max the way i did maybe i didnt believe he was as disinterested as he let on .
perhaps his seeming lack of interest made me more interested it was true that max and i would occasionally antagonize each other , after all , we were brothers .
maybe it was something else maybe , for reasons i could not understand , a part of me needed to investigate more closely .
perhaps i sensed that i would find some answers like some who gives up five or six months of their life to hike the appalachian trail i expected to gain something from the experience .
there was one thing i was certain of , however , i was eager to take a break from hiking .
thinking back to that day , i now believe it was for all of those reasons that i pointed to the valley and said , lets go down there .
for what ?
asked max , although his response seemed more like a statement than a question .
im not going down there .
were already a week behind .
we can go out to the road and catch a ride .
no way , he said .
i want to go .
its a waste of time .
im curious , i said , aware that max was annoyed with me .
after all , there are hundreds of people marching around down there , dressed up in civil war uniforms , and theyre shooting cannons and rifles .
i added , arent you curious ?
no , max replied flatly .
i didnt understand maxs reluctance .
although he was good about sticking with our daily plans , he always agreed with me whenever i suggested that we take a brief respite from hiking .
look , i said , i just want to see it for myself .
thats all .
okay , you go .
ill be here when you get back .
just go for a little while , i pleaded .
then we can catch a ride back up here promise .
suit yourself .
frustrated with max , i began to skip down the mountain .
i was moving fast and afraid that if i moved any faster i would fall , head first , onto the loose rocks and spend the rest of the morning cleaning cinders from my hands and knees .
max followed more slowly and deliberately .
once back at the campsite , i started packing my gear .
you really going ?
max asked when he arrived .
yep .
doesnt leave me much choice .
stay here .
ill be back later .
no .
im going , said max .
i smiled , and we quietly finished packing our gear , as the distant thunder of the cannons echoed around the mountain walls .
whats the name of this spot ?
max asked .
matts creek shelter ?
not the shelter .
oh , i said .
you mean thunder hill .
yeah , he said .
its appropriate .
as i tied the drawstring on the top of my pack , max stoked the gray coals from our fire they turned red and then faded .
he poured more water on the embers and they hissed as the steam floated away .
satisfied that the fire was out , he stepped on the coals and ground them into little pieces .
that okay ?
he asked .
good enough .
lets go , i said .
as we walked away from the campsite , i looked back at the spot where we had had the fire .
staring blankly at the charred remains , i recalled the image of max , sitting there alone , swirling his cup , and whistling .
ii 10 20 am the trail split about a quarter of a mile from camp .
we took the fork that led to the highway and soon heard cars passing .
a few minutes later we were walking on the blue ridge parkway .
we began hitching for a ride , and about six cars passed before two guys in a blue , four wheel drive pick up truck stopped .
the man on the passenger side rolled down his window .
he scratched the whiskers on his unshaven face and asked , where ya headin ?
we were up on the ridge and saw a reenactment going on in the valley over there .
i explained and pointed in the general direction .
that where ya wan na go ?
yeah , i said .
hop in .
going right by there .
thanks , i replied .
then we took off our packs , set them in the back of the truck and climbed in .
both of us sat up near the cab , max with his back against the fender on the drivers side .
i sat on the opposite side .
i got comfortable and noticed confederate battle flag stickers on either side of the back window .
the driver pulled the truck onto the highway and his passenger turned around and opened the sliding window .
take what ya want , he said as he passed a flimsy blue bag through the window .
we got em at the over stocked vendor of excess , he added , and he then laughed at his own clever comment .
the bag was filled with oranges , apples and bananas .
the passenger then handed us a couple of soft drinks and apologized for not having any beer .
we dont start drinkin till after lunch , he said .
he smiled and held up a plastic soft drink bottle wrapped with a fake beer label that was intended for a twelve ounce can .
slightly amused , i assumed that he also had a fake soda label that he wrapped around his beer .
max looked at me and smiled .
trail magic , he said .
i pulled an orange from the bag and handed it to max he took out an apple , stuck it in his pocket and handed the bag back to the passenger .
thanks , said max .
the passenger nodded and said , just knock if ya want anything else .
got ta a whole bag full of junk food , too .
he smiled again and closed the window .
max and i twisted the tops off our drinks and watched foam spray out from the beneath the cap .
we motioned cheers to each other , lifted the bottles to our mouths and took a few gulps .
boy that tastes good , i said , even if its not beer .
max looked at his watch .
its still morning , what do want with a beer ?
i dont know .
guess i shouldnt complain , though .
not when its free , said max .
yeah , yeah .
max took off his jacket , balled it up and tucked it into the corner of the truck bed between the cab and the fender .
he laid his head back and closed his eyes .
we were rolling slowly along through the blue ridge mountains .
i sat there sipping my soda as muffled music played loudly inside the truck .
the tune was familiar southern rock , but i could not recall the words or the artist .
a few minutes later the driver turned onto a gravel road .
max looked up , sipped his drink and laid his head back down after he realized we had turned off the parkway .
we wound slowly down a steep grade as a white cloud of dust eddied out behind the truck .
the road leveled a bit and the dust settled .
we were beneath a canopy of hardwoods and hemlocks .
the hardwoods were mostly tulip poplars and maples , with a few scattered oaks and hickories .
the hemlocks , especially those with trunks more than a few inches thick , were dead or dying .
many of the smaller ones were under attack , too .
i didnt know how the parasite had come to the appalachians , but it reminded me of the blight that had destroyed the american chestnut , many years before i first visited the mountains .
we rounded a hairpin turn , the truck bumped a couple of times , and i heard mud splatter inside the wheel wells .
looking past max , i saw water cascading , from side to side , down the mountain , wrapping around the surface of some rocks while splattering off of others .
wet weather spring ?
i wondered .
i looked at the moist rocks in the cascade and the dryer ones nearby that were speckled with lichen and moss .
dead trees were lying here and there across the stones .
young ferns were growing in boggy spots along the edge of the water the tips of their stems were still curled tight .
tiny purple violets added dabs of inviting color .
the scene was framed with lush spring foliage , new shoots and youthful leaves , and illuminated by the translucent blue background of the morning sky and the occasional beam of sunlight that pierced through the trees .
these shaded nooks and crannies , sometimes called hollows , are what i like most about the mountains .
i believe i could selfishly build a cabin at that spot or one like it and quietly live out the remainder of my days .
when i looked at the dense foliage and cascading waters behind us , it became clear that i had grown content with the relative solitude of our journey .
during our thru hike attempt the time spent alone , whether wandering through the ever changing scenery or lying quietly at night , had enabled me to relax in a way that can only be experienced after spending weeks away from the frantic pace of modern life .
as i sat reflecting , i suddenly found the prospect of encountering hundreds of people in a strange place far less appealing .
for a moment , i questioned the wisdom of my insistence on taking a detour and sensed that i better understood maxs reluctance to join me .
the music from within the cab suddenly grew louder and the idyllic scene faded as we rounded a bend in the road .
i recognized the tune as southern man , a neal young classic but before i could start silently singing along an empty plastic bottle went spinning end over end as it flew down the embankment .
the music faded in proportion to the tension building in my jaw i despise litter .
jerk , i said loudly , partly hoping to be heard , partly hoping not .
max looked up .
whats that ?
at the same moment the brakes locked on the truck and the tires locked and spewed gravel across the dusty road .
max jerked his head at me and asked , whatd you say ?
i raised my finger to my mouth , looked into the cab and saw the driver wrestling with the gearshift .
as the wheels spun and the truck began to roll backward , i heard raised voices inside the cab .
the truck rolled back about fifty yards before the passenger opened the door .
over the music we heard him say , youre a regular environmentalist , ya stupid , no count redneck .
since when de hell do you care if i throw a bottle out da winda .
since were not parked in your yard .
you know damn well i cant stand looking at garbage all over the place .
im not letting you turn the jefferson national forest into a dump .
and where do you get off calling me a redneck ?
the passenger disappeared as he worked his way back and forth down the embankment .
a moment later he was trudging up the hill with his retrieved litter in hand .
he tossed the bottle in the back of the truck and said , you guys mind watchin that ?
my righteous friend in there , hes suddenly flicted with environmentalism .
i grunted and nodded my head .
says he aint no redneck .
den what da hell is he hangin out with me for ?
when the door was closed max and i turned away from the cab and laughed out loud .
where is the guardian of the beautiful mountains when you need him ?
asked max .
guardian of the beautiful mountains whats that suppose to mean ?
max grinned and said , youll figure it out one day .
trail fever , max ?
no .
we came to the intersection at the edge of the access road the driver turned left and meandered down the mountain .
the woods opened up into a narrow valley where we began to see cars parked on both sides of the road .
we also passed several men dressed in the gray uniforms of the confederate army and a pair of women dressed in hoop skirts .
this ought to be interesting , i said .
yeah .
what happened to all the cannon fire ?
battles over , max replied .
our driver found a spot along the road and parked the truck .
max and i climbed out the back , and the two guys inside the cab got out .
the driver attempted to ask us a question , but his voice was drowned out by the roar of a fleet of approaching motorcycles .
our heads moved back and forth as we watched each one pass .
american flags attached to the handlebars and the back of the lead bike fluttered in the wind .
moments later , when the sound faded , the driver of the blue truck asked , want to put your gear inside ?
no thanks , were not sticking around long , replied max .
by the way , he added , let us pay you for the sodas and fruit .
no , its on us , the driver insisted .
well then , thanks .
see ya around , said the driver .
thanks , i said .
iii 11 25 am max and i stood at the back of the truck and gazed at the men dressed in confederate uniforms as they passed .
one of them was wearing what i assumed was an officers uniform .
at first glance , i noticed a glossy red sash that was wrapped around his waist then i admired the quality of the heavy looking , broad brimmed hat it had a gold tassel and was tilted on his head .
a sword cut back and forth at his side .
his trim mustache was slightly darker than his blond hair .
he immediately impressed me as a person of authority , but the favorable impression disappeared when he glared back at us , placed his thumb and index finger on the brim of his hat and smirked before he said , gentlemen .
another reenactor acknowledged our presence with a curt nod .
the smirking officer said to the others , did you get a whiff of that ?
yeah , replied one of the others .
come on , said the officer .
my boys probably having a fit .
something didnt seem quite right about a couple of the men .
their uniforms looked old and worn , and as they walked by i noticed that they were very thin , almost gaunt .
max and i stood there in our hiking gear with our pant cuffs tucked in our boots , full backpacks topping out above our heads and our bodies reeking with the essence of sweat , campfire smoke and grime .
we certainly werent dressed for the occasion .
how about that look ?
i asked .
the officer ?
inquired max .
yeah .
hes got a superiority complex .
comes with the stripes , he added .
superiority complex was the term max used to describe people who thought they were better than others .
quickly dismissing our first encounter with reenactors , max and i walked toward the open area ahead of us .
we soon saw a gently sloping field that stretched hundreds of yards , all the way to the base of a mountain to the west .
my first thought was that this spot was mercifully left behind , like an inverted peninsula , many centuries ago when the angry earths core pushed up sharp mountain tops that had since been worn down by relentless years of wind and rain .
looking again , i saw that patches of trees and shrubs covered a fair amount of the area before us .
there was a clear view from one end of the battlefield to the other and the camps of the opposing armies stood at either end .
i guessed that there were thirty to forty open acres between them .
some of the more permanent fixtures in the field included a few small groves of trees , a lone gigantic oak with branches hanging only inches above ground , several locust trees , scattered limestone outcroppings and the remnants of a stone wall that stretched across the width of the field .
im not sure what it was , perhaps the branches of the old trees hanging over the sodden ground or the way the stone wall looked sunken into the earth , but there was something haunting about the battlefield .
i shuddered when i realized that men may have died here , writhing in pain before some merciful spirit released their souls from the shattered bodies .
i shuddered again when i thought that some of those souls might still be haunting this soil .
looking at the many people wandering about , i speculated that , like me , few of them understood what it meant to die on a battlefield .
the confederate encampment was immediately in front of us the union encampment was partially visible on the hillside at the far end of the field .
between the two camps , in the middle of the battlefield , were the remains of the morning engagement including , to my surprise , some fallen reenactors that were waiting to be carted off on litters .
men dressed in confederate uniforms scurried about while others , sitting among a circle of white canvas tents , were cooking over campfires .
a larger tent was positioned toward the edge of the field .
the peak of its pointed roof was five feet taller than the guard standing outside .
it was apparent to me that this large tent was the headquarters i wondered who might be inside .
several horses were tied to a fence that located between the large tent and the steep slope of a nearby hill a blacksmith was shoeing one of the horses .
orderly tripods of muskets with bayonets and a variety of other artifacts were spread out within the camp .
three cannons were positioned between fifty and a hundred yards away .
some of the confederate reenactors wore jackets with stripes , hats and sashes , and sometimes a pistol or a knife was hanging by their side .
i was again surprised to see that a few of them were gaunt and wore uniforms that looked old and worn .
it almost appeared that the organizers had recruited them from a soup kitchen .
a confederate flag was vigorously flapping in the breeze at the center of the camp , inside the circle of tents .
other participants wore civilian clothes with the addition of a soldiers jacket or hat a few wore clothes that looked more appropriate for farming even fewer wore formal civilian attire of the civil war period .
there were also women dressed in period clothing .
they looked hot in the many layers that were often adorned with a shawl and bonnet .
surprisingly , there were also boys and girls dressed in mid nineteenth century clothes .
one little boy with tangled golden locks dangling beneath his cap and a drum attached to a strap around his neck was marching along the back of the confederate camp attempting to beat the drum in rhythm with his steps .
the asynchronous movement between his feet and his hands were forced and unnatural .
the determined look on his face made me laugh i wanted to walk over and help him find the beat .
only yards away , leaning against a fence , were two men watching the boy .
i recognized one as the officer max and i had seen with his entourage when we first arrived at the reenactment .
he was holding his hand to his head , shaking it back and forth , as if he were embarrassed by what he was watching .
it seemed obvious to me that the boy was his son .
far across the field was a scattering of blue uniforms .
most of the union reenactors appeared to be wearing light blue trousers and dark blue jackets .
i was not surprised to see a variety of vendors in a village of their own some distance away .
i later learned that these vendors were referred to as sutlers .
beyond the sutlers village i could see modern tents , campers and rvs parked beneath the trees .
in the absence of the campers , rvs , a makeshift parking lot , and spectators , the scene might well have been set in the civil war period .
looking back at the confederate camp , i noticed that max and i did fit in , in one way .
over half the reenactors had beards .
i had never seen a greater assortment .
there were goatees , long narrow beards , some sideburns and well waxed handlebar mustaches .
max and i had ordinary three month old beards that were devoid of any special grooming .
a few reenactors were wearing similar beards .
hungry ?
i asked max .
yeah .
id like some of whats cooking over there .
i pointed to a whole pig roasting over an open fire on the edge of the confederate camp .
assuming that we would not likely get any , we headed for the sutlers village .
on the way we passed under the grove of tall trees where we took off our packs and set them against a tree trunk .
i opened my pack and took out my wallet and we went looking for a couple of hot dogs and drinks .
what do you think of all this ?
i asked .
kind of weird , said max .
weird ?
yes .
i was too excited to give maxs comment serious consideration .
a lot of people .
how do you suppose they decide whether they should be rebels or yankees ?
in a surprisingly authoritative tone , max replied , it depends on a number of things .
like what ?
some decide based on where they grew up or on family history , others on personal philosophy .
for some its just a hobby and they dont care much about what side theyre on one time a rebel , the next a yankee .
how do you know ?
i got ta couple of friends at home that do this , replied max .
you suppose theyre here ?
no .
they only go to gettysburg or new market .
costs a lot of money .
how much ?
i asked .
im not sure , but it requires more than just buying a uniform .
theres rifles , knives , tents , accessories , fees , traveling you name it .
its like anything to do it right you have to be willing to pay for it .
an expensive hobby , i thought .
then i said to max , judging by the fences , i presume were not welcome in the camps ?
i dont know , he replied .
maybe they let non reenactors in at certain times .
so you think we can walk though later ?
max shrugged his shoulders .
i looked around at the different sutlers tents .
one was selling period clothes and gear , another displayed a variety of flags and a banner on which the words finest flags of the confederacy were written , and there was a tent with books and pamphlets stacked up on tables .
i tapped max on the shoulder .
im going over there .
we walked over and an older woman , perhaps in her sixties , approached us .
as she got close , she pulled her head back slightly and raised her eyebrows .
the reaction to our stench was typical and max and i were not offended .
i chuckled and apologized then i explained that we were hiking the appalachian trail and that we heard cannon fire from the ridge .
we , or really , i was curious .
i see , she replied .
well , since youve gone to all the trouble to come , perhaps i can give you a little history .
she smiled .
thatd be great , i said .
good , she said .
this is the reenactment of the battle of clear creek .
i looked around and didnt see any creek .
but i didnt interrupt .
in early 1865 , the union army was wrapping up a successful campaign over the mountain in the shenandoah valley .
a battalion of union soldiers was sent from that campaign to assist grant in his pursuit of lee .
the battalion came across that gap in the mountain .
she pointed to a low spot in the ridge where i could see one mountain in the foreground and a second one farther back .
i sensed a sizable gap between the two .
the confederates had sentries posted all along the ridge , especially close to major towns and cities like lynchburg and roanoke .
when the lookouts saw the union army approaching , they sent for help .
soldiers were sent from lees army and they were joined by a handful of other locals .
the aim was to ambush the yanks before they got through the gap .
but the southern boys were a little late getting here .
after a brief skirmish , which they reenacted this morning , a more fierce engagement followed .
the battle lasted two days before the yanks retreated .
it was later found that grant had sent word to the commanding officer of the union forces to turn back .
his message indicated that he had lees army in full retreat and that surrender was imminent .
a few days later , she sighed , lee surrendered .
so this was one of the last battles of the civil war , i said .
yes , but it was actually fought in april .
so why not reenact it in april ?
there are other reenactments at that time , so this one is in may .
max spoke up , how many died here ?
i think the official count was twenty six or maybe twenty eight , i cant really remember , but it was a small number of fatalities relative to many other battles .
this was , to the relief of many , the last battle for most of the soldiers who fought here .
i tried for a moment to imagine what a soldier that understood that the war was nearly over thought about as he stood facing the enemy .
under those circumstances , i wondered , what was it that motivated a man to fight ?
was it dedication to a cause , or fear of the consequences of refusing to fight ?
did having other battle hardened and weary soldiers make it easier or inescapable because each soldier believed that the others fought for honor and glory and failure to do the same was unforgivable ?
returning my attention to the woman , i asked , forgive me , but werent there much larger battles that make for better reenactments ?
yes and no .
the large battles take a lot of time and money to stage .
the various organizations work hard to pull off reenactments like gettysburg , antietam and new market .
the organizers spend an entire year preparing for those events .
but these smaller battles lend themselves to weekend commitments .
the so called hardcores sometimes like these battles better .
hardcores ?
i echoed .
some reenactors are more serious about authenticity than others .
they insist on coming as close to replicating the conditions of the civil war period as they can .
they go to great lengths to ensure that uniforms , camps , the battles , the way they talk , what they talk about , you name it , are consistent with the period .
some even go so far as to nearly starve to death .
in fact , since this was one of the last battles of the civil war , there were many real soldiers , especially southern soldiers , who did almost die of starvation .
so that explains the nearly emaciated reenactors we see walking around .
i said .
hardcores , said the woman as she nodded her head .
i noticed customers milling around looking at books .
to wrap up our conversation i asked , so when do they start fighting again ?
she looked at her watch and said , in about an hour .
thanks ms. and i stuck out my hand .
the woman took my hand and said , thompson , rose thompson .
thanks ms. thompson , i said as max smiled and nodded in appreciation .
she smiled and said , youre welcome .
iv 12 30 pm after talking with ms. thompson , max wandered off and i started looking at her books .
the racks were filled with biographies of civil war generals and books dedicated to battles like cold harbor and manassas , or campaigns like shermans march .
i recognized a few titles including defending southern sovereignty and the pulitzer prize winning lincoln at gettysburg .
there were even civil war dictionaries , the complete idiots guide to the civil war , and some academic titles like the impact of industrialization on the pre civil war south .
but some titles were strange i couldnt help but notice confederates in the attic dispatches from the unfinished civil war .
this book featured on its cover a particularly angry looking soldier with matted curly dark hair and a beard , dressed in a plaid shirt , wearing a big bow tie and holding a knife .
the photo was extraordinarily odd looking and i didnt know what to make of it .
i couldnt tell if it was authentic or not .
numerous other books seemed to question history among them were titles like facts historians leave out a confederate primer and what they didnt teach you about the civil war .
a few titles seemed intent on inciting an emotional response some of these included the south was right , southern invincibility and the southern nation the new rise of the old south .
at first i was surprised that most of the books seemed to emphasize the south .
upon reconsideration , however , it seemed understandable since most of the war was fought in the south , and i was standing in the midst of a reenactment on southern soil .
positioned between the books was a rack of pamphlets .
a sign across the top of the rack read civil war bulletins .
a small label marked 1.95 ea .
was stuck to the corner of the sign .
i scanned the titles and one , rebel yell , a yankees hell , caught my eye .
i picked up the pamphlet and began to read .
nothing could send chills up the spine of a yankee soldier quicker than a chorus of spirited rebels whooping and hollering .
historians contend that the psychological impact a rebel yell had on the yanks was comparable to the impact that american soldiers had on the north vietnamese when they flew over in their helicopters playing rock music at deafening volumes .
historians , i snorted and read on .
in brief , the author cited a few examples of how a destitute band of ragtag southern soldiers relentlessly used the famous rebel yell to send superior numbers of better equipped union soldiers into retreat .
in the concluding paragraph the authors obvious intent was revealed when he made a plea for remembering the spirit and fortitude embodied in the rebel yell .
use the fearsome battle cry with certainty and conviction .
the rebel yell is an important part of your confederate heritage .
i closed the pamphlet and looked at the back cover .
at the bottom , centered on the page were the words published by the association for southern heritage .
i stood there dumbfounded .
i looked up to view the entire scene again and started to recall my own heritage .
i was a southerner , born in charleston , south carolina .
when i was eight my family moved to tidewater , virginia .
my father grew up close to myrtle beach , south carolina , and his family had been there since the beginning of the nineteenth century .
no doubt some of my fathers ancestors served in the civil war perhaps even lost their lives .
my mother was born in virginia and most of her relatives lived there .
in the third grade in south carolina public schools we were taught a simplified history of the civil war .
topics included fort sumter , the battery , the citadel and paragraph long biographies of the better known generals of the confederate army .
we also viewed the confederate battle flag , sometimes called the southern cross , as something to be revered .
although there were none in my parents house , in the homes of some of my neighbors there were pictures of robert e. lee , stonewall jackson and jeb stuart hanging above the mantels .
typically a miniature american flag sat on one end of the mantel and was balanced on the other end by some type of confederate flag .
it wasnt until i was an adult that i started to wonder why there was such an emphasis on the civil war in third grade south carolina history , or why neighbors hung pictures of confederate generals on their walls and sometimes had civil war shrines in their homes .
i wondered if these impressions were simply an expression of respect for ancestral sacrifice or a sign of some seldom talked about , but always present , feelings of a history that turned out different than many people might have liked .
id never thought much about civil war reenactments .
i was aware that they existed and i sensed that they were becoming more popular .
the truth , i guess , is that i hadnt really cared .
but some of what i saw in the sutlers bookstore suddenly made me wonder about the intentions of those who participated in reenactments .
i was reluctant to assume that they were the brainchild of some radical group .
i reasoned that my judgment was correct because this reenactment and , according what max and ms. thompson had said , others were held on well known battlefields where anyone with enough interest could see them .
they were open to the public and it was the transparent nature of these events that suggested that there was nothing sinister about them .
and so i stood there , filled with uncertainty , wondering again if max was right .
perhaps we should have stayed on top of that ridge and watched from afar .
i had my back turned , but could tell that max was walking up behind me .
he was whistling again .
he has a funny way of whistling .
he doesnt purse his lips like most people instead , he parts his lips slightly and blows air across his teeth .
an interesting thing about his technique is that others often have a difficult time telling that he is the one whistling he reminds me of a ventriloquist .
the quality of his sound is good .
he has as much range and control as anyone .
as he approached , i turned and interrupted his tune .
he pointed to the bulletin in my hand and asked , whats that ?
oh , nothing , i said and dropped the bulletin back in its slot in the rack .
hey max , i want to spend the night here .
max groaned .
havent you seen enough ?
no .
while max considered my suggestion that we stay the night , i found a brochure detailing the battle of clear creek .
as a gesture of gratefulness for ms. thompsons kindness , i purchased the brochure .
max agreed to stay , and we set up our tents in the wooded area across the road from the sutlers village .
v 1 20 pm soon after we set camp , people began to gather on a low plateau next to the battlefield .
max and i walked toward the sutlers village , bought a couple of soft drinks , and headed for the spectators area .
the viewing area was ideal , positioned high enough to look down on the entire battlefield , yet not so high or far away that we would miss any details of the battle .
the first sign of action came when a union reenactor mounted on horseback trotted to a high plateau behind the union camp .
another reenactor pulled out a field telescope and looked toward the confederates .
a bugle sounded on the union side , and reenactors gathered into five separate lines at the border of their camp .
the union colors were displayed at one end of the front line .
reenactors stirred within the confederate camp .
a group of thirty or so rebels crouched down and ran , with muskets in hand , along the far edge of the battlefield toward an outcropping of rocks and bushes .
some of them took position behind the rocks , others either lay on the ground or hid under the scattered brush , while the rest gathered in three lines in front of the camp .
when the lines of the two opposing forces were in place , field officers began barking orders to their men .
it was impossible to make out what the officers were saying , but it was apparent that they were imploring their men toward battle .
the roll of drums started and reenactors marched forward .
the front lines , perhaps forty men or more , from each army stepped in unison onto the battlefield .
when these men had marched twenty or so paces , the second line followed and the maneuver was repeated until each line of men was marching .
max tapped on my arm and pointed toward the battlefield .
over there , he said .
sitting tall on a horse that was positioned well behind the lines of confederate reenactors was the blond officer max and i had seen when we first arrived .
the red sash alone was enough to get the attention of onlookers , but the way he sat with his sword in his right hand and holding his head high as if sneering at the crowd made him stand out .
looking again toward the union side , i saw a group of black reenactors marching together along the front line .
one of them carried the union flag .
the others marched with their rifles propped against their shoulders .
the crowd of spectators , many dressed in period clothing , buzzed with anticipation .
most of them stood with their hands shading their eyes from the bright daylight , perhaps looking at a father or son .
others watched through binoculars .
some were standing in small groups talking among themselves as they watched the reenactors slowly close in on each other .
looks real , doesnt it ?
max said to me .
too real .
the reenactors steadily moved forward as the sound of the drum matched the rhythm of their march .
closer and closer they came , until finally a man dressed as a confederate field officer commanded his troops to halt .
a union officer followed with a similar command .
the opposing armies stood with their front line troops situated little more than fifty yards apart , separated by the rubble of the old stone wall that offered no advantage to either .
following more commands from the officers , the reenactors on the front lines kneeled and set their rifles against their shoulders , aiming the barrels at the opposition .
i stood there amazed at the insanity of it all .
how could a man take position , in an open field , only a few yards away from an opposing army ?
no wonder so many died , i thought .
kaboom , kaboom , kaboom !
max and i jumped at the sound .
a collective gasp came from the spectators and seconds later a first explosion occurred across the field near the rock outcroppings where the confederate sharpshooters had taken position .
almost instantly there was a second explosion , then a third , each closer to the rocks than the one before .
a single reenactor shrieked and flung himself to the ground .
fire !
i wasnt sure where the command came from , but instantly reenactors from both sides fired .
as scores of guns crackled simultaneously , smoke lifted into the air .
a few men on the front lines fell while those in the second rows aimed their rifles and muskets .
another command was given and the reenactors fired again a few more men fell .
after a volley from the third row , a small group of confederates positioned in front of the black reenactors jumped to their feet , held out their muskets and ran forward .
i was relieved to see that they did not have bayonets .
as the rebel reenactors charged , their union counterparts fired repeatedly , feverishly working the levers on their rifles , one man fell as though shot , but he quickly jumped up and resumed his charge .
when the small band of rebels reached the black troops , they were swinging and poking their muskets .
a moment later , the rebels , two of the black union reenactors and a few others dropped their weapons and began to engage in hand to hand combat .
elsewhere on the battlefield gunfire continued , accompanied by occasional casualties and a slowly spreading cloud of blue smoke .
the air was thick with the smell of burnt cordite .
cannon fire , at times , overpowered the scene and shook the ground while flag bearers held their colors high .
in the heat of the battle , officers rode back and forth behind the lines shouting at their troops .
the most noticeable was the sneering confederate officer who wielded his glinting sword above his head .
when his horse reared slightly , the scene looked like something from an overly dramatic painting .
looking again at the black yankees and their rebel counterparts engaged in hand to hand combat , i wondered if the two groups of men were really fighting .
they were punching and wrestling and throwing each other about , but as they continued it became obvious that no one was getting hurt .
each time a man was knocked down or thrown to the ground he would jump up again and reengage his opponent .
at times it seemed that they might even be laughing .
thats the hand to hand combat guys the virginia 1202nd , a young boy shouted .
in response to the boys remark , max and i looked blankly at each other , but we were too fascinated by the battle to speak .
at times , the fighting seemed realistic , but it also seemed that there were fewer casualties than one would expect with soldiers fighting so close to each other .
the battle progressed without either side appearing to gain an advantage .
we watched cannon fire break apart the back line of reenactors from each of the armies .
there were several charges from the union army , several more distinct volleys of rifle fire scattered amid the seeming chaos , and more hand to hand combat on the edge of the battlefield .
suddenly , in a surprise maneuver , the remaining lines of confederate reenactors , the sharpshooters from the far side of the battlefield and a small number of cavalry from the confederate camp simultaneously closed in on the union army .
union soldiers began to break ranks and retreat to their camp .
men dressed in confederate uniforms pursued relentlessly , all the while shouting and screaming with rage the rebel yell .
when a union officer grabbed his armys battle flag and waved it toward his camp the remaining reenactors joined the retreat .
at first a few confederates pursued , but they stopped and returned to their ranks when a field officer repeatedly fired his pistol in the air .
the commander of the confederate troops mercilessly kicked his heels into the flanks of his horse and rode forward toward his men .
he shouted , but i could not hear his words .
after a few stray shots the fighting stopped .
almost immediately a deployment of confederate reenactors returned to the field under a white flag to gather their casualties .
max and i counted six dead and eight wounded rebels some wearing clothes partially saturated with fake blood .
when the confederates left the field , the union reenactors came out for their own post battle collection of casualties .
we counted ten dead and eight wounded union reenactors .
looks like the rebs got the best of that one , said max .
how about that charge ?
pretty realistic , but there werent enough guys dying .
thats what i thought .
the spectators around us began to leave the hill and max asked , you suppose thats it ?
i guess so .
what do we do now ?
i shrugged .
we turned and started walking back toward the wooded area where our tents were set up .
the images of what i had just seen were fresh in my mind .
evidently , max was having a similar experience i cant get over that charge , he said .
did you see those guys fighting hand to hand ?
yeah , replied max .
and the cannon fire and the explosions .
its amazing how good they time everything .
it scared me the first time they fired the cannons .
boom , boom , boom and then three explosions afterward , in perfect sequence .
awesome , simply awesome .
at first it was hard to believe that no one was dying out there .
that charge at the end , max repeated .
like a couple of tall tale savvy kids , we went on and on , all the way back to our campsite , repeating the details of what wed just seen .
with each retelling , our description became slightly more exaggerated , slightly more satisfying , until we had fixed mental images that matched our emotions .
we both understood that our particular version of what we had just seen would be retold to thru hiking , strangers sitting around distant campfires .
we would have been richly satisfied had our detour ended there .
vi 3 40 pm max and i were sitting around a small fire we had built at our campsite .
we both enjoyed campfires , but at the end of most days were we typically too tired to make one .
that is unfortunate .
making a fire fits well with the preconceived ideals of the typical would be thru hiker .
my experience however , has been that building a campfire breaks the routine , helping me to slow down and reflect on our journey .
moments like those are important .
hiking more than two thousand miles is a formidable task , so much so that one often blindly marches on from day to day , rarely taking time to linger .
some thru hikers make more than thirty miles a day many routinely hike between twenty and twenty five .
when elevation changes are taken into account , most days become nothing more than a long , tiring and dirty journey .
at the end of the day , few thru hikers are energetic enough to make a fire instead , they pitch their tent or spread their sleeping bag inside a trail hut , chat with fellow hikers , then crawl into their temporary shelter and snore the night away .
campfires are generally not a necessity , as most hikers use small cook stoves to prepare food and sleeping bags provide adequate warmth .
and so , when max and i gathered wood for the second time in the same day , i planned to spend the afternoon lingering .
a while later we sat stoking our campfire when a man from an rv that was parked nearby approached us .
fellas , he said .
hi , max replied .
hope you dont mind my asking , but what brings you here ?
after i told him that we were taking a detour from hiking the appalachian trail , the man said , i thought so youve got that trail weary look about you .
you know that look ?
i asked .
i know it well .
i used to work at a little campground near jennings creek .
its just south of here over the mountain .
jennings creek , i said .
i used to spend time there in the summer .
then you probably know black bear campground ?
yes , i replied .
hikers used to stop there all the time for supplies and showers sometimes theyd bunk down for a night or two .
the kind man scratched his head and asked , you boys hiking all the way ?
thats our intention , i responded .
thats quite an undertaking .
you can say that again , replied max .
the man looked hesitantly at max and then at me .
he pursed his lips slightly and nodded , giving the impression that he had just made an important decision .
bet you boys would like a hot shower , he said .
cant think of anything id like more , replied max .
well , he said , youre welcome to use mine .
seriously ?
asked max .
sure , replied the man .
thats an offer i cant refuse , said max .
get your stuff together and follow me .
the man looked at me and said , how about you ?
im in .
max picked up his backpack and said , lets go .
the man laughed .
come on , he said .
max and the man disappeared into the rv .
i sat by the fire and prepared myself a cup of coffee .
a few minutes later the man stepped out of his rv and walked back to our camp .
forgot to introduce myself .
the names squires , owen squires .
i stood up , shook his hand and introduced myself .
he looked at me and smiled .
it was a tired smile .
he appeared to be in his late sixties or early seventies .
he had a thick frock of neatly combed white hair , his cheeks were red and his skin was slightly transparent with small spider veins and scattered age spots on his hands and face .
his ears and nose were large , more characteristics of his age , and his eyes were sad .
the white cotton shirt , tan slacks , brown braided belt and walking shoes were well worn and comfortable looking .
as i looked at mr. squires i was reminded of a particular afternoon i spent at a marina near my home in tidewater .
standing on the deck of small yacht , with a rope in his hand , was a former governor of virginia a man whose picture i had seen many times in the newspaper and on television .
his face was so familiar that i recognized him immediately , although he did not look at all as i expected .
my image of him was one of a man who commanded respect by his appearance and the eloquence of his words , but on that day at the marina he looked like a man whose best days were past , like an almost lifeless soul who had little more to give .
mr. squires looked the same .
mr. squires , what brings you here ?
please call me owen , he said .
ive come with my son , junior .
my wife passed away a few years ago .
for a while after that , i just sat around the house and didnt do much .
then , junior , he insisted that i get on with my life .
we both live in north carolina .
one day , about a year ago , i guess , he came to visit .
while he was there he took me out to look at rvs .
when i asked him what id do with one , he said that we could travel together to these reenactments .
you see , my wife , she was pretty sick for a while , so i didnt do much back then but take care of her .
my son , hes just looking out for me and wants me to get out of the house and all .
you know owen eyes filled with tears and he paused , taking a deep breath before he continued .
im sorry , he said .
its okay , i said , and for a moment i pitied him .
oh , he replied , sounding disgusted with himself .
my sons right its time to move on .
he paused and then asked , so whats it been like for you and your brother hiking the a.t. ?
i summarized our experience , including details about maxs fall and the six straight days of rain .
i told him that we were hiking from south to north and that we started at springer mountain in mid march .
we discussed the character of the trail and how it changed as one progressed from the mountains in northern georgia to maine .
owen said that in his lifetime he had hiked bit and pieces of the trail in virginia and in the great smoky mountains in north carolina .
he had even camped on the trail a few times .
you know what i like most about hiking for a few days ?
whats that ?
i asked .
oh , i know its kind of clich , but what i like most is the solitude .
its good to get away sometimes .
but , he said with emphasis , i bet its not the same when youre out there for weeks on end .
youre right .
in fact , some people dont handle it well .
so ive heard , he said .
even with his familiarity he was intrigued by the idea of thru hiking the trail .
he continued asking questions but soon seemed satisfied , and he changed the topic by asking , so , when did you spend time at jennings creek ?
mostly during the summers when i was a boy .
early 70s , i guess .
thats when i worked at the campground .
did your folks have a place there ?
no , but the family of a friend of mine owned a cabin that stood alongside the jennings creek .
i might know the place , said owen .
what were your friends names ?
last name was butler .
butler .
hmm , they probably had family around there .
there was an old log cabin on the campground that once belonged to the butler family .
you know , i said , i remember going to see that place .
we both stood silent for a moment .
i was remembering the cabin and wondering if owen was doing the same .
finally , he said , small world .
yes it is , i replied .
unable to think of anything to add to the conversation i asked , so , what do you think of all this , owen ?
he stared at me as though he didnt know what i meant .
then he asked , you mean reenacting ?
yes .
oh , for most of the boys this is just a hobby .
others live and breathe the civil war .
they study it and talk about it all the time .
you know how a man can be when he gets obsessed with something .
most of them are pretty good boys , i guess .
owen took a deep breath , then looked down and scuffed at the dirt .
he was wearing a distant expression that made me wonder what he might say next .
in the awkward silence i thought about the reenactors max and i had encountered when we first came down from the mountain .
the awkwardness vanished when the door to owens rv opened and max walked out with a smile on his clean shaven face .
vii 4 10 pm it was my turn for a shower .
i dont know when , if ever , i so looked forward to the feel of hot water running down my back .
while hiking day after day i came to ignore the dirt and grime that built up on the skin .
i ignored my stiff , matted hair .
when i did get a chance to take a shower , the water was usually cold , or if i was lucky , lukewarm .
the offer to get a hot shower was the kindest gesture owen squires could make .
i followed owen into his rv .
he showed me around before he led me to the bathroom .
he opened a tiny linen closet , pulled out a clean towel and handed it to me .
enjoy , he said .
that wont be a problem .
owen excused himself and went outside .
sitting down on the toilet lid , i took off my shoes and socks .
the stench of my feet was familiar enough not to bother me , although i was confident that i was the only one who would think that way .
i laid my socks across my shoes and stood up to remove the rest of my clothes .
i loosened my belt , unzipped my jeans and pulled them off .
the jeans were soft from many days and nights of endless wear .
i took off my shirt and t shirt both were stained around the armpits .
i didnt have a change of outerwear , but thankfully did have clean underwear and socks .
reaching into the shower , i turned on the water and adjusted the knob until the water felt comfortably hot .
i stepped in .
oh man , oh man , i said out loud , not caring if anyone heard me .
i just stood there and let the water spray onto my head and run down my body .
the dirty water swirled into the drain .
at first it was dark and muddy with bits of broken branches , bark and leaves .
gradually it became more transparent until the last remnant of trail debris disappeared into the drain .
i turned around and let the water massage my back as i reached for the soap .
i had forgotten just how good a hot shower feels .
it is especially noticeable when one has been deprived of such pleasure for as long as i had .
the shower had the effect that only a hot shower could making me wonder what was so unusual about showering .
i had read that the sound of falling water relaxes most people .
i know i have felt that way .
in fact , max and i tried to camp next to cascading creeks whenever possible its great for sleeping .
but the sound of falling water does not compare to the feel of falling water , especially the feeling of hot water running down your back .
as the shower enclosure in owens rv filled with steam , my pores opened and sinuses cleared .
i have no idea what really happened next , but i will accept that as the sinuses opened up , cranial pressure fell and somehow stimulated the neurons in my brain to release more serotonin or , perhaps , endorphins .
with the elevated brain activity my ability to concentrate intensified , and i stood at the center of a secluded world that suddenly seemed right .
i first considered that one of the important daily experiences might be the relaxing , mindless activity of showering eventually realizing that taking a shower fosters a balanced mixing of subconscious and conscious thoughts that leads to clarity not even duplicated by driving on an open highway with favorite music playing on the radio .
i had lived long enough , however , to also know that a steamy shower sometimes evokes delusions .
perhaps as evidence , i imagined the sound of an out of tune , would be singer attempting a difficult melody while showering he sounds good to himself , but not to anyone else .
too self conscious to sing in a strangers shower , i began to hum and daydream of a world where i was a benevolent master of knowledge ready to espouse transcendental thoughts of unquestionable value to all humankind in other words , i was full of myself .
i was about to speak to a group of amorphous , out of focus bodies that were , mysteriously , hovering about in a hazy room filled with cabinets .
the cabinets , finished in a warm honey glaze , made me realize that i was in the kitchen of my childhood home .
in front of me were a young max and a large woman wiping her hands on her apron .
i vainly tried to recall her name , but the memory was too distant .
the large woman and the others among my imaginary audience were , i was certain , interested in every word i spoke clearly they stood before me ready to accept whatever i might say as the undeniable truth .
and so , with great sincerity i began an enlightened discourse .
you know , its a rather simple proposition , i said out loud .
the founders of this nation clearly understood that there are certain inalienable rights .
these rights are manifest regardless of any human characteristic that visibly or otherwise distinguishes one person from another .
such characteristics are not grounds for denying people the right of free speech , freedom to worship , to vote , to own property .
i believe that anyone , at any time in history , has had the capacity to understand this truth .
one need only listen to that inner voice , the voice that what the hell are you talking about in there ?
i heard max say , shocking my synapses back into their more normal state .
embarrassed , i snapped , why didnt you tell me you were out there ?
good lord , cant a man have a little privacy ?
the least you could do is whistle or something .
max laughed and said , and miss out on your infinite wisdom ?
ha !
look , witless one , im getting your clothes .
mr. squires is going to let us use his washing machine .
they put washing machines in these things ?
evidently .
i showered self consciously as max picked up my dirty clothes .
he asked in a tone i can only describe as sinister delight , so who were you talking to in there , some stupid son of an ugly man ?
no one , i said sheepishly .
you always did live in your own little world .
anyway , he continued , i now know what they mean when they say , you talk like youre in the shower .
whats that ?
he responded slowly and deliberately , its easy to be right when no one is listening .
youre weird , i said .
me , he scoffed .
what do you call , to understand this truth , you need only listen to that inner voice ?
enlightened .
oh thats precious , he said .
hurry up , im getting hungry .
dont rush me .
i hope you run out of hot water .
what a nice guy .
yeah .
wait a minute , i said what am i supposed to wear ?
max answered , a union soldiers uniform .
its on the toilet seat .
are you kidding ?
no .
its the only thing owens got that will fit your skinny butt .
it belongs to his son .
a union uniform im not sure how i feel about that .
after all , i was born and raised in the south .
after a pause i asked , so , whats it like ?
the uniform ?
yeah .
just a light blue pair of pants and a white shirt .
what are you wearing ?
some of owens clothes , max answered .
then he whispered , so , do you think this guys okay ?
owen ?
yeah , i guess .
seems nice enough .
we had a good talk while you were showering .
besides , were not going to be around that long .
youre right , billy yank , said max and before i could respond he said , later , and closed the door .
i could hear him loudly whistling yankee doodle as he walked down the hall .
the cheerful quality of his tune said that he had his lips pursed .
he was either still teasing me , congratulating himself for teasing me , or both .
i stood there still enjoying the shower , but had no desire to finish lecturing .
instead i rinsed off and began thinking about dinner .
i got out of the shower , dried off and put on the union uniform .
the pants were made of thick wool and the shirt was cotton .
the pants fit a little tight in the thighs and hips , but the shirt fit perfectly .
it was cut differently than a modern shirt a narrow collar and no double layer of cloth down the center where it buttoned up .
as i stood there in a yankee uniform i looked in the mirror and recalled the conversation i had had with ms. thompson at the sutlers village .
again , i wondered what it was really like to be a soldier in the civil war .
i wondered what a soldier , any soldier , thinks about the first time they put on a uniform .
what did they think about before they went into battle did they really want to fight and were they afraid to die ?
i thought of henry fleming , the protagonist in steven cranes the red badge of courage .
how many soldiers are like henry so unsure about his own resolve to fight while others are dying around him , willing to accept heroic accolades even though he did not deserve them , and yet finally courageous enough to become a fighting soldier ?
as i stood there wearing that uniform , i became more interested in the civil war and the reenactment of the battle of clear creek .
when i walked out of the bathroom i found max and owen sitting at a dining table .
max was flipping cards one by one , playing solitaire .
fits perfect , owen remarked .
he picked up a glass half filled with an amber liquid .
at first i though it was tea .
its comfortable , i said .
thanks .
i pulled a chair from the table and sat down .
the smell of bourbon drifted into my nostrils .
care for a drink ?
owen asked .
ive got sodas , tea , orange juice and water or , he held his glass up , something a little stronger , if you prefer .
i havent had a glass of iced tea in a while .
i answered .
max here tells me that you can spend a lot of money on one of these uniforms .
thats right , replied owen , especially if you purchase all the accessories .
what youve got on would cost two hundred dollars or more .
whats a jacket cost ?
i asked .
oh , at least a hundred and fifty .
and a hat ?
forty bucks , maybe more .
owen stood up with his glass in hand and walked toward the kitchen stove .
he twirled his drink and the ice clinked against the side of the glass .
he opened a large pot and stirred with a wooden spoon .
chilis hot , he said .
yall hungry ?
hungrys not a strong enough word , i said .
well , theres plenty here .
owen opened a cabinet , pulled down three large soup bowls and handed one to max and one to me .
help yourself .
thats what i call a bowl , said max .
he neatly gathered and stacked the playing cards , while i ladled out chili until the bowl was nearly full .
owen poured me a glass of tea .
as i sat down at the table i saw a stack of newspapers sitting in a chair .
i picked up the one on top and immediately noticed an article about a u.s. senator who was under pressure to resign because he made some racially insensitive comments at a friends birthday party .
according to the article , he steadfastly argued that his remarks were taken out of context and reportedly apologized on three separate occasions .
by the time i finished reading , it seemed apparent that he would be forced to resign .
evidently his apologies were not enough to appease the various minority rights groups , legislators in the opposing party , and those within his own party who stood to gain from his departure .
i laid the article in front of max and asked , did you read this ?
yeah .
i dont miss politics .
it was hard to keep up with politics , or any news , when you spend your days and nights on the trail .
you know , max said , it might be better if they didnt pressure him to resign .
whys that ?
i asked .
you remember when that auto repair chain was accused of cheating thousands of customers out of money by charging for services they didnt provide ?
yeah .
well , soon after that story broke i took both of my automobiles to them for servicing .
in my mind the scandal was a guarantee that i would get everything i paid for , and then some .
owen said , i wish id thought of that .
max is a clever one .
i continued , so max , whats that got to do with the senator ?
are you kidding , hed be the best political advocate minorities have had in a long time .
youve got a point , i said , but do you really think that logic applies here ?
no , replied max .
but a desperate politician might .
owen spoke up .
do you think hed be in all that trouble if he really understood the issue ?
i raised my eyebrows , looked at max and pointed toward owen and said , now hes got a point .
i reached over and picked up another paper .
as i lifted it from the stack i noticed a number of articles that had been clipped from other papers .
the one on top was entitled , mississippi reenactors turn their backs on the klan .
i picked up the article and the one beneath was entitled , blacks reenact as confederate soldier .
the next one read , man shot and killed by african american for flying confederate flag .
wow , i said .
owen saw me looking at the various articles and said , junior cut those out .
i see .
hes really into this stuff , owen said .
i was curious to see what else i might find in the stack , but got the feeling that owen was uncomfortable with me looking at the newspapers so i put them down .
i returned to eating my chili .
before i finished max went back for a second bowl , and owen was pouring another bourbon and cola .
viii 4 45 pm when we finished eating dinner max went to move our clothes from the washing machine to the dryer .
stuffed and too uncomfortable to just sit , i asked owen if i could walk outside in his sons uniform .
sure , he said .
he wont wear it anymore .
after putting on a clean pair of socks and my hiking boots , i stepped outside into a festive atmosphere .
it was late afternoon and sunlight spotted the decaying pine needles that covered the spectators camping area .
there were still several hours of daylight left , and a few people dressed in civil war period clothes and many dressed in modern attire were wandering about .
others were sitting in lounge chairs around little campfires or gas grills , eating and drinking and talking .
feeling the need to walk , i wandered toward the sutlers village .
this time i was not interested in books instead i was interested in learning more about uniforms and accessories .
there were two sutlers selling everything from civil war period civilian clothes to period uniforms .
a variety of accessories ranging from handkerchiefs to bayonets to civil war flags were also on display .
a few peeks at price tags confirmed what i had been told one could invest a lot of money in period clothing and accessories .
while i stood comparing the cost between hats a clerk approached me and said , the one in your left hand is the most popular .
this one , i said as i held out my left hand and set the cap in my right hand back on the table .
yes sir .
whys that ?
its a good value .
the material is a wool and synthetic blend .
so it has an authentic appearance and feel , yet the polyester makes it durable .
also , the brim is one hundred percent hand tooled leather .
everything is double stitched by hand .
how much ?
i asked , pretending i was interested .
seventy nine .
do you have one that costs less ?
yes , the one you set down over there .
he pointed to the cap i had laid back on the table .
its forty nine dollars .
whats the difference ?
the material in that one is synthetic and the leather is of a lower quality .
its okay , although most reenactors dont use them .
the material gets little thread balls on it when it gets worn .
thread balls ?
sorry , he said .
but i dont know what else to call them .
have you ever owned a polyester sweater ?
ah yes , i said .
i know what you mean .
then i asked , do you have a union cap like it ?
yes we do , answered the clerk .
same price ?
yes .
i reached my hand back to where a pocket would be and , although i knew i didnt have my wallet , i said , darn , i didnt bring my wallet .
what time do you close ?
we start packing up for the evening around six .
what time is it now ?
the clerk looked at his watch and said , almost five .
good .
if you dont mind ill look around some more .
thats fine .
can i help you with anything else ?
no thanks , i replied .
then i asked , are you open in the morning ?
yes .
we start setting up at six .
six ?
we do a good business in the mornings before the battles start .
thanks .
youre welcome , he responded .
i looked around at the flags on display and was surprised to see how many different varieties were used during the civil war .
there seemed to be one for each state and a seemingly endless number of other banners and pennons representing the many different regiments and battalions .
i recognized only a few and noticed that most consisted of a combination of red and white stripes with blue fields dotted with stars .
the numbers and patterns of stars were inconsistent from flag to flag .
there were several that had two wide red stripes with a single white stripe sandwiched between .
most of the flags were rectangular but some were square and others were triangular .
there were numerous symbols on the flags including eagles and shields , clovers and palm trees and anchors and cannons .
among all the flags were two that stood out .
larger than many of the others , they were not hanging on racks instead they were mounted on poles and standing upright at opposite corners of the awning overhanging the sutlers store .
i walked over to the confederate battle flag and took it in my hand .
it must have been five feet across .
i stroked the smooth material it resembled silk , but i recognized it as finely woven polyester that had a silky sheen .
the blue bars were a deep dark blue and the red field was rich , almost luminescent .
unlike other confederate battle flags that i had seen flying elsewhere this one was new , not faded from an overexposure of cheap dyes to relentless sunlight .
the stars were embroidered , not pieces of cloth sewn into place , and the flag was mounted on the polyurethane coated hardwood pole with brass grommets and screw eyes .
this was a nice piece of craftsmanship obviously intended for the serious civil war enthusiast .
i took the tag in my hand and read it .
confederate battle flag southern cross made by lufkins period flags and clothing in the lower right hand corner of the tag was the price .
wow , i said quietly .
i held the flag up by one corner and admired its vibrant colors then i let it fall and decided to continue walking .
my stomach was still full from the chili .
ix 5 00 pm leaving the sutlers village , i turned to walk farther into the valley away from the mountains that surrounded the reenactment area .
cars were lined along the road and parked in every available space between the trees .
continuing on , i entered a canopy of hardwoods hanging over the road .
the leaves had grown to a mature size , unlike those seen at the higher elevations .
eventually , i walked into a clearing where i saw the roof of an older home sitting back against the mountains .
i wanted to continue but felt awkward standing there dressed in the strange combination of a union uniform and modern hiking boots , so i turned around and headed back to the reenactment site .
as i was passing through the trees again , a large tractor trailer approached , and i was forced to duck between two cars .
as the trailer passed i stepped blindly back out into the road and immediately heard the screech of tires on the asphalt .
a blue four wheel drive pick up came to a stop , and i instinctively jumped back between the cars .
the truck looked like the one that max and i rode in when we hitched a ride down from the parkway .
looking through the window at the back glass i didnt see any stickers , so i assumed it was a different truck .
then i looked at the driver and saw a woman with long dark hair staring at me .
i mouthed the word sorry and hoped that she would drive away .
she didnt .
instead , she slowly rolled the truck forward .
she stared i felt like she was taunting me .
she pulled beside me and stopped as i stood there ordering myself to be apologetic , hoping to avoid a scene .
the window slowly disappeared into the body of the door and although the part in the middle of her locks of black hair was the first thing i saw , the first feature of her face that came into focus was her eyes .
much to my relief the eyes were not angry instead , they seemed to be smiling and strangely familiar .
almost instantly , her nose , then her smile came into view .
my mouth fell open for a moment before i could say , anna ?
i stood there wondering if she would recognize me she had never seen me with a beard before .
almost instantly she replied , you silly boy , at least let me kiss you before you throw yourself in front of my truck .
before i realized what i was saying , i said , look at you , anna , youre as beautiful as ever .
ian ward hamilton , she said with mock indignity , youre so forward .
we laughed and cut evasive glances at each other .
someone honked a horn .
imagine , she said , cant stop and talk to an old friend on a lonely country road without causing a traffic jam .
let me find a place to park .
okay , i said without trying to hide my smile .
id loved anna for as long as i had known her , but i had given up on our relationship .
best friends for most of our lives , we courted seriously in high school and as adults , but our relationship had recently cooled .
within the last year we had stopped corresponding altogether .
we first met in the fourth grade , the same year i moved to virginia .
we quickly became friends .
we begged teachers to let us sit next to each other in class , always ate lunch together and teamed up when we could , to work on class projects .
in middle school we signed up for the same classes and often planned our social schedules together .
i did not become interested in dances and parties until about the eighth grade .
anna and i had our first date that year when we attended a school dance .
that was in the late 70s when everyone wore bell bottoms and double knit wide lapel shirts when it was fashionable for males to wear shoes with high heels .
but even with one and a half inch heels i was a good inch shorter than anna .
what i remember most about that dance was that she never said anything about me resting my head on her shoulder and slobbering on her dress the first time we slow danced together .
she was very understanding that way .
by the time we entered high school we had developed a deep but unspoken respect for each other .
throughout high school we dated off and on , but anna always insisted that we should be free to date other people .
sometimes i would date other girls for months , but i always came back to anna .
i constantly compared the others to her and none quite measured up .
when we did date for any length of time , we never swapped class rings nor did we do anything suggesting that she was my possession or i was hers .
we had grown comfortable with our feelings for each other .
in our last year of high school i grew anxious about the future of our relationship .
i knew that we would both go to college but , since her family was considerably more affluent than mine , i feared that we would go to different schools , and that our lives would change in ways that would make us less compatible .
i was right , at least about going to different schools .
anna went to amherst college on an academic scholarship .
she studied anthropology and astronomy .
she also performed for a small ballet company in boston and trained as a concert pianist .
she first told me about her seemingly eclectic mixture of coursework during the summer after our freshman year .
i asked her , so what will you do , excavate ancient alien cities and villages ?
atlantis might be a good place to start .
anna had a quick and confident response for my aspiring sophomoric humor .
astronomy was important to ancient cultures , she explained .
consider the druids , the mayans and even the supposed wise men who traveled to bethlehem .
they are just a few examples of ancient cultures or people that relied on the heavens .
that was typical anna , always prepared to defend her decisions .
my college years were less inspiring .
i started out with two years of junior college in the mountains of north carolina and then transferred to a state school with a reputation that was easily lost on a gray wall of middle class mediocrity .
anna studied the great philosophers , musicians , artists and historians .
my education was more vocationally oriented and practical i learned to live by the seat of my pants .
i learned to survive in the world as it is she learned to change it .
but i did not envy her .
in fact , our college experiences had turned out the way i expected .
hurrying along the road , i remembered i was wearing a union uniform and hiking boots .
this should be fun to explain , i said to myself .
anna found a spot and parked her truck .
i was still walking when she jumped out and ran toward me .
when she was a few steps away , she held out her arms then i held out mine and we embraced .
i cant believe its you , ian , she said .
where have you been hiding ?
you didnt answer my letter .
letter ?
yes , i sent it weeks ago .
anna didnt wait for my response .
instead , she wrapped her arms around me and buried her head in my shoulder .
oh , im so glad to see you , she said .
the sudden public display of emotion , the sudden submission , was unusual for anna , and i wondered if something was wrong .
the momentary concern passed as i enjoyed our embrace and hoped that the emotional letdown of the last year had been premature .
anna released me and backed up a few feet .
let me look at you .
she first looked into my eyes then tilted her head down in stages .
okay , you look fit , but the beards too long and i think youd better explain the outfit .
the boots definitely do not pass the authenticity test .
she rolled her eyes as though she didnt care much about authenticity .
well , i started , max and i were up on the appalachian trail when we heard .
she grabbed my arm , wait you and max hiking the a.t. ?
yes .
thank god , she said .
she motioned toward the battlefield , i was afraid you were a reenactor .
me ?
ignoring my response , anna asked , so , max is here too ?
yes , we met a man who is here with his son .
max is there right now in his rv .
okay , go on , she said .
we hitched a ride down here , just to see what all the fuss was about .
that explains the shoes .
now where did you get that uniform ?
these are loaners .
max is washing our clothes in mr. squiress rv .
she smiled and said , wow , as she held on to my arms .
here you are , alive and well , standing right in front of me .
i cant believe it .
so , what about you ?
what are you doing out here in , i paused , realizing that i only had a vague notion of where i was .
here in clear creek , virginia .
clear creek , said anna , thats the name of the civil war battle that took place here .
clear creek runs along the base of the mountain behind the union camp .
this is little valley .
ok then , what are you doing here in little valley ?
this is my new home .
new home ?
yes , daddy inherited a farm .
we still have our other house , but we plan to spend most of our time here .
so this farm , its close by ?
anna pointed toward the reenactment site , thats a big part of it over there .
the battlefield ?
unfortunately .
anna looked distracted for a moment before she asked , how long are you going to be here ?
were leaving in the morning , but when did you get this farm ?
you mean , when did daddy inherit it .
it happened about a year ago .
she looked at me and said emphatically , ian , you must stay for a couple of days .
wed love to have you .
id invite you to stay tonight , but we already have a house full of guests .
tomorrow maybe ?
that would be nice , but we have to get back on the trail in the morning .
were already a week behind .
anna looked at me and frowned .
well , she said , lets go see max .
im supposed to go out with mom and dad this evening , but i can be late .
anna and i turned and walked briskly toward the spectators camping area .
on the way i asked , so , how are your parents ?
wonderful finally .
daddys like a new man .
thats good , i said .
anna continued to talk about her father until we came to the rv .
i climbed the step and knocked .
owen opened the door .
max ?
he said in an inquisitive tone .
yeah ?
is your brother in the habit of picking up beautiful women ?
max replied , never , as he leaned to look out the door .
my god !
anna .
hi , max .
where did you come from ?
not very far away , she replied , i live here .
no kidding ?
asked max .
no kidding .
owen interrupted .
hi , im owen squires .
wont you come in ?
thank you , mr. squires .
owen held the door open .
when i passed , he raised his eyebrows twice , in quick succession .
immediately , i noticed that his face was flushed .
at first i thought the redness represented some momentary infatuation with anna , but when i saw his watery eyes and turned to avoid his bourbon scented breath i knew otherwise .
anna hugged max and then sat on the couch next to me .
owen sat in the recliner .
max sat with his legs straddled and arms folded across the back of a chair .
so how are you , anna ?
asked max .
im doing well .
your mom and dad , added max , i assume they are well too ?
theyre fine , she said .
ian told me that they had been ill. anna glanced at me and then looked at max .
yes , they were ill for a long time , but they are both much better .
mom still enjoys gardening , and daddy , well , hes into everything .
between the letters anna did not like to correspond with me through e mail i want to fill your top dresser drawer with letters .
letters are a lost art , she always said phone calls and occasional visits i pieced together the sequence of events that annas parents had endured over a long stretch of years .
her mother was diagnosed with breast cancer years ago .
she underwent a successful single mastectomy and chemotherapy , only to have a second malignancy appear in the other breast less than two years later .
before she fully recovered from the first round of treatments she endured yet another surgery and more chemotherapy .
her second recovery was drawn out .
soon afterward , annas father was diagnosed with heart disease during a routine check up .
the colonel , as i referred to him in annas presence , underwent angioplasty .
but within a year he was back in the hospital for bypass surgery .
anna was an only child and , she was determined to see her parents through their difficult times .
i patiently waited , admiring annas loyalty but as time passed , we grew increasingly detached .
the weekly letters became monthly letters and , finally , quarterly letters .
the monthly phone calls eventually ceased altogether , and the last time i saw her i truly believed our relationship had come to an end .
now max , anna said , i understand that you and this high energy brother of yours are hiking the appalachian trail .
max laughed and replied , were making a go of it .
so , what inspired that ambitious undertaking ?
she asked .
max glanced at me before he fixed his gaze on anna .
its a long story , he said , but you can look at me and figure out the better part of it .
i interrupted .
it wasnt easy to get him to commit .
its not easy for anyone .
anna added .
committing might be the easiest thing about it .
max pointed to me and said , lets just say that for a long time , knucklehead over there thought id been spending too much time feeling sorry for myself .
so , the do gooder shows up at my house one day and asks , how much you got tied up in all this electronic junk ?
electronic media , i said .
of course , max continued , i have no idea whats on his mind .
so i ask , what are you talking about ?
you know , he says , the television , dvd , game box , computer .
at first i think hes being nosey , so i ask , whats it to you ?
anyway , he tells me he wants to buy it from me , at a premium .
of course , i think hes lost his mind .
well , he made me an offer , which sounded pretty good , until he laid out the details .
he tells me that if he buys all my electronic media max emphasized electronic media as if he thought it was an expression that only a snobby sophisticate would use .
i cant replace it for at least six months .
well i didnt think about it long .
i didnt really want to give up television or the internet , but i agreed to his offer .
dont forget max , i made you promise to pay me back if you backed out .
thats right , he continued .
anyhow , im standing there and ian pulls out a wad of hundred dollar bills .
he starts counting out the agreed amount , and im standing there thinking ive just made a great deal .
but when i see hes got at least a couple thousand dollars left , i couldnt help but wonder if id sold myself a little short .
y e a h , right , i protested .
owen looked at me and said , you need any more televisions , computers , vcrs ?
everyone laughed .
so thats it , said anna .
ian got you off the couch and back on your feet , and here you are .
no , not exactly , i replied .
theres more ?
asked anna .
thats just the beginning , said max as he turned toward me and chuckled .
anna , no sooner had i taken the money when he walked over and took my wide screen television off the stand , walked out the back door and threw it in the pool .
ian !
oh , he was just getting warmed up .
i had two other televisions in the house .
he took both of them outside in the front yard , got my shotgun and went outside and blasted them to pieces .
then he gets my ladder out of the garage , hauls my computer and nineteen inch monitor up on the roof and throws it down onto the asphalt driveway .
by this time hes got an audience .
therere neighbors all over the yard wondering what this crazy brother of mine is doing .
of course , im telling them he paid for it all so they dont think im crazy .
max took a deep breath .
to make a long story short , he rummages through my house looking for anything and everything that might be considered electronic media .
hes taking hand held electronic games , video games , you name it he cleaned me out .
then , as if destroying all my fun and entertainment wasnt good enough , he tells me that hes got to go somewhere , but that hell be right back .
well , im left there cleaning up the mess he made .
finally , im finishing things up and here he comes with this big box in the back of his truck .
at first i think hes going to replace my television , but i quickly dismissed that hopeful thought .
im standing there as he pulls in the yard trying to read whats on the box .
when he stops , i walk over to the truck and see the word treadmill stamped on the side .
he opens the door , flashes a cheesy smile and says , youve got six months .
six months for what ?
i asked .
six months to get ready to hike the appalachian trail .
well , you can imagine the kind of expletives that came out of my mouth .
at that moment , i swore up and down that i would never hike the appalachian trail .
everyone laughed for a few seconds before anna said , and here you are .
yeah , here i am .
me and my proverbial i hate to admit it , but its the best thing thats happened to me in a long time .
so youre what , said anna , about one third of the way there ?
about that , i said .
we continued to talk about our thru hike attempt until i asked , so , anna , how is it that these reenactors are using your farm ?
daddy does well renting this land , she replied .
sounding apologetic she added , it was part of a long term contract that existed when he inherited the farm , but he knows i anna stopped short and glanced at owen .
she was obviously uncomfortable expressing her thoughts in his presence , but i knew her well enough to know that she might have misgivings about reenactments .
evidently , owen perceived annas discomfort .
he sat up on the edge of his chair and cheerfully said , you know anna , sometimes im not sure why i come to these things .
the battles are interesting to watch , but it concerns me .
wondering how much our host had had to drink , i looked at max and subtly gestured toward owen .
max understood my meaning and like a baseball catcher giving a signal he moved his hand between his legs and flashed three fingers .
i hoped that three was the total and not the number owen had consumed since we had eaten .
no one said anything and , owen took a deep breath .
he looked at max and then me and said , you fellas know , my son juniors out there .
and i meant it when i said that most of the people involved are good people .
i dont claim to know why everyones out there , but i do know that many of them have a great great grandfather or uncle or some ancestor who fought in the civil war .
others , i think , just want to learn more about it .
theyre a well meaning bunch .
i was thankful that owen was speaking clearly .
but i wondered if he could avoid getting emotional , the way he had when he started talking about his wife earlier in the day .
anna sat up straight .
so , do you think thats the way it is for all reenactors ?
owen looked down and shook his head .
no , he said .
we all sat silently for a moment , waiting for owen to continue .
before he could speak , however , anna interjected , oh , why dont we talk about something else ?
owen reacted , youre very thoughtful , young lady , but i dont mind talking about it at that moment i hoped owen would stop talking or that someone would interrupt him and change the subject .
i sensed that he was beginning say things that would make us all uncomfortable it was like one of those moments when you want to whisper in your friends ear and tell him that he has said enough .
but owen didnt pause .
in fact , he said , i used to live next door to a fella that was , well , the kind of person that makes me wonder what these reenactments are really about .
owen lifted his glass and took a sip of his drink .
i lived next door to him for about four years .
nice enough in most ways .
hes , or at least he was , the service manager at a car dealership .
talkative kind of guy , and real smart , you know .
seemed to be well respected at work and everyone in the neighborhood really liked him too .
he regularly took my cars and truck in for inspections and service work .
hed bring them home with the bill .
id write him a check and thank him .
made it simple for me , you know .
in return , id pitch in and help out around his house from time to time .
we helped each other out that way , the way neighbors are supposed to .
i slid out to the edge of the couch , anticipating that owen had more to say about his neighbor .
he sipped his bourbon again .
one day , after id been living next door to him for a couple of years , the house across the street was put up for sale .
my neighbor and i were standing in the yard when a real estate agent drove up with a black couple .
when they got out of the car , i could see my neighbors face turning red .
he got pretty steamed all of a sudden .
i looked at him and asked , whats wrong ?
although i was pretty sure i knew what was bothering him .
cant you see ?
he said , motioning toward the people across the street .
see what ?
i asked .
he whispered , niggers .
so i asked him , are you prejudiced ?
what he said next confounds me to this day .
whats that ?
anna asked quietly .
he said , i aint prejudice , i just dont like niggers .
what ?
anna reacted .
max and i glanced uncomfortably at each other .
exactly what i thought .
owen shook his head .
i had to go in the house and look up prejudice to see if i really knew what it meant .
but thats beside the point .
you see that mans a reenactor .
and while i hope there arent many of his kind out there , i know theres at least a few like him .
owen took another sip of his bourbon and said , i did eventually get a word in .
we stared at owen , waiting for him to continue .
a few days later we were talking again .
he mentioned that he was afraid that colored folks might buy the house .
so i asked him what he was afraid of .
he said that if they did , our property values would go down .
i told him that prices would only go down because people like him wouldnt pay the same price to live in a neighborhood where colored folks lived .
he looked at me kind of funny , but i think he got the point .
is he still your neighbor ?
no .
owen lifted his glass and drained the rest of his whiskey .
we sat silently as he got up and walked into the kitchen .
he set his glass on the counter and said to no one in particular , you know , i used to be hopeful that people would one day learn to get along a little better .
i sat , waiting for him to say more expecting words like , i just dont know anymore .
but he didnt say anything .
he just stared across the room .
anna stood up and walked over to owen .
she placed her hand on his shoulder and said , im still hopeful , mr. squires .
she smiled a warm smile that set us all at ease .
then she looked at her watch and said with the right touch of urgency , oh my , i hate to break up the party , but ive got to get home .
mom and dad will think that i stood them up .
oh , stay a little longer , max said .
i wish i could , but my aunt , uncle and their friends stopped by for a few days on their way to florida .
my parents went with them to lynchburg .
im supposed to meet them for dinner .
ill walk you back to your truck , i said .
anna reached out to shake owens hand .
he took her hand and said , very nice to meet you , anna .
nice to meet you , mr. squires .
if you need anything while youre here , dont hesitate to stop by .
i live in the first house on the right as youre leaving the valley .
the two story brick house that sits back off the road ?
owen asked .
the one with the tall evergreens hanging over the drive ?
anna replied , yes , thats the one .
i love that place , he said .
well then , you must come by for a visit .
perhaps i will .
perhaps i will , repeated owen .
i look forward to it , mr. squires .
do you have a pen and a piece of paper ?
ill write down our number for you .
certainly , said owen and he walked away muttering .
anna turned to my brother .
so max , when are you coming to visit ?
might be sooner than you think .
it seems that every minute that goes by , ian wants to stay a little longer .
now that hes found you well .
anna stretched her arms around him and said , it was truly good to see you , max .
perhaps i can stop by in the morning to send you on your way .
anna stepped back abruptly and smiled .
hey , why dont i drive you two back up the mountain tomorrow ?
max and i looked at each other .
max replied , wed like that .
what time do you want to leave ?
were in no hurry .
whatever suits you , i responded .
how about nine oclock ?
thats perfect , i said .
then its settled .
ill see you two at nine oclock tomorrow morning .
owen handed anna a pen and a piece of paper .
she wrote down her phone number and said , call me if you need anything , mr. squires .
x 5 40 pm anna and i walked slowly through the temporary campsite toward her truck .
im sorry about owen , i said .
i had no idea .
when i met him this its okay , ian .
why did you give him your phone number ?
i guess i felt sorry for him he seems so lonely .
hes not likely to call .
no .
anna shook her head .
id say that you made him feel pretty good .
you know , he mentioned that he lost his wife a few years ago and that he travels to reenactments with his son for something to do .
the he is lonely , replied anna , before she changed the subject .
ian , i still cant get over the fact that youre here .
quite the coincidence , id say .
did you ever spend time here in the summer ?
yes .
why do you ask ?
well , i used to spend time over the mountain , in the jennings creek area , i answered .
jennings creek , anna said as if she were trying to recall whether or not shed ever heard the name .
theres an access road near the peaks of otter .
i spent a few weeks there in the summers when i was a kid .
anyway , i said realizing that my recollections meant little to anna , im sorry that we cant stay , but we shouldnt be here in the first place .
i understand and , ill even forgive you if you promise me one thing .
whats that ?
i asked .
call me as soon as you and max finish , or before if you get the chance .
i want to hear about the rest of your adventure and well just make sure you call .
i will .
we walked slowly , and i found myself wondering what anna had written in the letter that she had sent to me after max and i already started our thru hike attempt .
anna , i said softly , what was in that letter ?
it was about what happened to us .
what do you mean ?
how our relationship seemed to sort of fall apart .
ian , she said , i know im generally good about expressing my thoughts and feelings , but i spent a lot of time writing that letter .
id prefer that you read it .
i wont see it for months .
i know , she said , but id like you to be patient .
i dont think i can express myself any better than i did in that letter .
dont you have a copy of it ?
anna rolled her eyes and said , you know me better than that .
and you wont talk about it .
not now .
she paused before she added , i need time to think .
i understand .
we walked side by side , and anna looked at me and smiled an old , familiar smile .
her eyes cautiously welcomed my imagination , but i could tell that any physical advance would be turned away .
my heart beat a little faster as i reacquainted myself with the features of a face i had known so well .
it was soft , almost perfectly symmetrical with classic cheekbones .
her nose was straight , her lips were slightly less than full and her long , curly black hair and blue gray eyes gave her a striking appearance .
when we were younger , her beauty and poise were enough to unnerve me .
she always seemed to know who she was i was sometimes less certain about myself .
just two years ago she looked tired , and at times , almost lifeless .
what i remember most about her appearance then was that her hair was dull and frizzy the wavy curls were gone .
no doubt the change was the result of worry and toil over her parents .
but now , she was once again beautiful and as vibrant as ever .
although i did not know what the future held for us , i felt a newfound hope as i walked with her .
so what do you look like behind all that facial hair ?
same old me , i said .
you look well and fit .
thats me , i chuckled , fit .
a moment later we were standing awkwardly next to her truck .
neither one of us wanted to say goodbye .
the many months that had passed since we last saw each other left us with far too much talk about .
i didnt know if i should simply say goodbye and walk away or if i should try to steal a little more of her time .
what will you do tonight ?
anna asked .
hang out with max and owen , i guess .
as long as you stay out of the camps , she said .
you really dont like these reenactments do you ?
not at all .
why ?
you heard owen .
those people out there , i gestured toward the battlefield , are well meaning .
after all , arent most people ?
you know as well as i do that there are people wandering around out there with other intentions .
what intentions ?
ian , anna replied .
you heard what owen said about his neighbor .
dont pretend to be nave .
nave ?
anna shook her head .
what kind of intentions would you think people dressed in confederate uniforms might have ?
well , if it were halloween or a costume party stop teasing .
look , she said impatiently , you know there are bigots out there .
bigots ?
how do you know theyre bigots ?
besides , there are bigots wandering around everywhere .
what owens neighbor said , that must have happened years ago .
im the one that lives here remember ?
what i see , what i hear , and what i read in the papers suggest that bigotry is thriving in the heart of virginia .
suggest that bigotry is thriving come on , anna .
if thats true here , then why is there a union army out there ?
and blacks , why are there black reenactors out there ?
no , it seems to be more to it than that .
besides , what are you thinking that you should ask them to leave ?
no .
anna paused and gave me a hurt look .
you know though , ive got the urge to hide my hair under a hat and sneak into those camps just to listen to what those would be soldiers talk about when theyre sitting around the campfire .
if only i didnt anna turned her head and her words drifted off .
before i realized what i was saying , i responded , thats an idea .
why dont i do it ?
do what ?
asked anna , as she looked up at me .
infiltrate the camps , i said , trying to sound sly and funny at the same time .
oh , dont be silly .
it was obvious that anna did not take my comment seriously , but as the words sank in , the idea of wandering around the army camps at night intrigued me .
so i insisted , i mean it , im going to do it .
the hurt look on her face disappeared , and she said , you are serious , arent you ?
of course , and ill give you a full report in the morning .
what if you get caught ?
youll be hung as a spy , she said facetiously .
yes , its a dangerous thing im about to do for you , ms. foxharte , i replied with mock seriousness .
thats what worries me .
but i need a uniform .
i said .
this one doesnt belong to me .
anna looked up .
not a problem , she said .
i can get you one .
theres a whole wardrobe in the barn .
wardrobe ?
yes , its like a lost and found .
uniforms left behind from previous reenactments .
we only keep them because the owners sometimes call looking for them .
anna grabbed my arm and said , lets go .
where ?
to the barn to find you some clothes .
xi 5 50 pm anna and i hopped in her truck and she drove toward her house .
i was happy to be riding with her .
unlike the last few times wed visited , we seemed to have found a new sense of common purpose albeit rather unusual .
when she drove out of the trees into the open valley the top of her home came into view .
it was the same house id seen while i was walking earlier in the day .
the truck crested the hill , and anna pointed and said , there it is .
in many ways the house was typical of the weatherworn , two story brick homes built in the mountains of virginia during the 1800s .
it was like a giant box with rows of windows on the first and second floors , symmetrically positioned across the front and along the side , each adorned with a pair of shutters .
a porch extended from one side of the house to the other .
looking up , i immediately noticed the generous eaves that stuck out from the moderately pitched roof well beyond the outer perimeter of the walls .
the cornices were intricate , and both the main roof and the porch roof were finished with newly installed steel .
there were two chimneys and two , perhaps more , flues extending beyond the top of each chimney .
in the center of the roof was a short tower like structure , a kind of parapet , with windows on all four sides .
the house alone was impressive , but the landscape , which was at once natural and well manicured , displayed what i recognized as trademark features of annas mother , elizabeth foxharte .
large deciduous trees and several evergreens surrounded the house , and tall firs overhung the curved driveway .
the mature trees , some with ivy crawling up their trunks , were trimmed high , leaving more than ample room for anyone to wander aimlessly beneath them .
dogwoods , some newly planted , were scattered about in bunches among the wide flowerbeds punctuated with hardy rhododendron and a few perennials that i could not name .
it was far more attractive than i had imagined when owen described it earlier , especially with the freshly painted outbuildings set a comfortable distance away from the house and the forested area that rose up onto the mountains towering in the background .
its beautiful , anna .
she turned down the lane .
the late afternoon sun , which was barely above the mountain , cast the long shadows of evergreens across the open field that stretched well out in front of the house .
the fresh smell of fir drifted into the cab of the truck .
can you smell that ?
anna asked .
yes .
it is beautiful , she added .
i detected a hint of trepidation .
we sat quietly for a moment as she slowly drove the truck down the shaded drive .
too bad your mom and dad arent home .
it would be nice to see them .
theyd love to see you .
daddy asks about you all the time .
im sure i can convince them to come see you in the morning .
id like that .
anna pulled the truck up in front of a large red barn .
come on , she said .
we got out and walked toward the barn .
horses were grazing nearby , enclosed in a freshly painted fence that disappeared into the distant woods .
anna opened the barn door and flipped the light switch .
several incandescent bulbs suspended from the rafters cast a warm yellow glow .
the barn was unfinished on the inside the supporting studs and beams were all exposed .
farm machinery was neatly placed around the hard packed gravel floor two tractors , a plow , a disc , a cultivator , a bush hog , a wagon and a variety of other equipment .
the machinery was perfectly painted .
most people leave that stuff outside , i said pointing to the equipment .
not daddy .
the colonel , i said .
the clothes are over here .
i followed anna to a room in one corner of the barn .
she opened the door , stuck her arm in and fumbled around for the light .
its always so dark in here , she said no window .
she found the switch and turned on the light .
one of the workers was napping in here one day when i walked in feeling for the light switch .
i woke him and he jumped up and scared me to death .
ever since then , i turn on the light before i walk in .
there they are , she said , pointing to table standing against the wall .
it was stacked high with an assortment of neatly folded clothing .
i stepped into the room and detected the faint smell of paint .
we walked over and began rummaging through the clothes .
anna pulled out a pair of gray trousers .
turn around , she said .
i turned my back to her and she held the trousers to my waist .
these might fit .
she laid them on the table .
i pulled out a gray jacket and tried it on .
that fits perfect .
its heavy , i said .
it was made of wool .
there were no lapels , but it had a row of dull gold buttons down the front .
i rotated my forearm inward and looked at the sleeve .
what are all these stripes ?
i asked .
i dont know , but you should take them off so you wont attract too much attention .
i have nail clippers in the truck we can use those .
there are boots and shoes under the table .
i bent down and pulled out two pairs of boots .
they were old and crusted with dirt .
one even had a hole in the toe .
i bet good boots were hard to find at the end of the war , i said .
everything was hard to find .
the north basically stripped the south of its natural resources , including men and boys .
have you ever wondered what this country would be like if the south had won the war ?
i asked .
this country wouldnt exist , but i prefer to let others do the speculating .
anna pulled out another pair of boots and said , try these on , maybe theyll fit .
i sat back on the dirt floor and pulled off my boot .
seems theres no shortage of speculation , i said .
what do you mean ?
anna asked as she turned one of the other boots upside down and struck the bottom of it with her hand a few times .
oh , i dont know , i replied .
im just thinking about some of the books i saw today .
anna looked at me and asked , what books ?
in the sutlers village .
i cant remember any titles , but some suggested that the civil war history we learned in school was biased , or incomplete , or something .
history books are biased and incomplete .
thats the nature of historical research .
in the hands of amateurs , its down right dangerous .
anna looked down and struck the bottom of the boot again .
ive seen some frightening spiders around here .
she turned the boot upright and blew in it a few times , then turned it upside down again and struck the heel .
satisfied that nothing was inside , she handed it to me .
so what other kind of books did you see ?
she asked .
recalling one title , i laughed and said , the idiots guide to the civil war .
you mean , the complete idiots guide to the civil war .
ha ha , i responded and slid the boot over my foot while anna checked for spiders in the other boot .
a little loose , but it will do for the night .
let me try that one .
the other boot fit loosely too .
i dont suppose you have a cap ?
i dont see one here , but i think she stopped in mid sentence .
you look through the union uniforms and ill be right back .
i stood up and found a single union jacket on the table .
i tried it on .
the cuffs fell about an inch below my wrist and the cropped tail hung well below my waist .
i took it off and set it down .
neatly folded , on a shelf above the table , were an assortment of blankets and what appeared to be a confederate battle flag .
i pulled the flag from the pile and unfolded it .
a moment later anna returned .
she was shaping the brim of a well worn , sweat stained confederate cap .
i thought i remembered seeing zeb wear this .
it was hanging on the shifter knob .
she looked up and fixed her gaze on the flag , oh god where did that come from ?
it was here on the shelf .
thats one i missed .
i still need a shirt , i said .
no shirt here , im afraid , but ill get one of daddys old work shirts .
the colonel wont mind ?
dont worry , i know how to handle him .
daddys little girl , i teased .
come with me .
i started to fold the flag , but anna said , leave it , ill take care of it later .
i tossed the flag on the table .
we left the barn and walked toward the house .
so whos zeb ?
i asked .
zebs sort of a caretaker we had another man , but daddy asked him to leave for some reason .
he never did say why .
daddy used to work with zeb .
he was a few weeks away from re enlisting , and i guess daddy made him a good offer .
anna hesitated then said , hes a strange guy , but daddy trusts him .
whats so strange about him ?
hes obviously well educated , but thats more than i can say for some of the people he hangs out with .
personally , i think theres more to zeb than we all realize .
what does your mom think ?
i asked .
she trusts daddy .
i trust your father , i said , thinking out loud .
anna and i walked into the house .
look around while i get you a shirt , or if you want , ill give you the ten cent tour when i come back down .
anna left me standing in the kitchen .
the kitchen matched my expectations , completely remodeled with care for maintaining the historical integrity of the home .
i strolled from the kitchen , through the dining room , the foyer and the living room .
there was a fireplace in each room except the foyer .
i was surprised that i recognized a few antiques it gave me a familiar and comfortable feeling .
i admired the heart pine floors and fine craftsmanship in the trim molding and stairway .
i walked to the back of the living room and into a library .
one thing the colonel and i had in common was a love for books .
the colonel had a collection of the harvard classics bound in leather that dated to the early twentieth century .
he possessed other literary classics , some of which were first editions .
sometime ago , when i was expressing my admiration for his collection , he said , read all these and you wont need a college education .
i left the library and entered a hallway that led past a bathroom and back to the kitchen .
halfway down the hall i stopped and returned to the foyer , where i waited for anna .
a moment later she called out , im coming .
no hurry .
the house is amazing , i said as i watched her walk down the stairs .
it reminds me of your other home .
i prefer the other home , especially in the winter .
nothing is more beautiful than a wet snowfall , with the pines around the shoreline laden with snow .
i can still see the branches hanging low over the waters edge .
do you remember when we took the tractor out on the frozen creek ?
i asked .
are you kidding ?
i still have the picture from the newspaper .
really .
yes , she replied .
that was a lot of fun , pulling people on sleds and ice skates behind the tractor .
it took the entire width of the creek to turn the tractor around .
were you there when old man graham separated his shoulder ?
no , but i remember hearing about it .
did i tell you how it happened ?
no , anna said .
he was on ice skates , and i was towing him behind the tractor on a long ski rope .
he swung wide while we were turning .
he must have been going thirty miles an hour .
the ski rope caught on one of those huge oil drums we had out there for fires .
he tried to lift the rope at the last second , but it hung and whipped him forward .
he must have done ten somersaults before he came to a stop .
he was lucky he didnt break his neck .
he was , but you should have seen it .
when that drum tipped over , there were ashes and partially burned pieces of wood flying everywhere .
old man graham was a good sport about it .
he just sat there on the ice and laughed for several minutes before we helped him up and took him to the doctor .
ill never forget that winter .
it hasnt been that cold since .
i looked at anna and smiled .
we had a lot of fun , didnt we ?
anna stood on the bottom of the step and handed me the top to a pair of long underwear .
this will have to do .
ive seen some reenactors wearing long underwear tops .
i took the shirt and said , you surprise me a little , anna .
i surprise you ?
yes , you seem to be more like your old self .
i guess i am now that mom and dad are better .
but listen , we dont have time for this conversation .
if youre going into that camp , therere a few things you should understand .
like what ?
ive seen enough to know that some people are very serious about reenacting .
it may be just a hobby for some , but for others its a religion and , if you start talking too much or seem too curious they might throw you out of there .
we walked through the dining room , into the kitchen , and out the same door we had entered .
we jumped in the truck and anna sped away .
she opened the lid on the armrest , pulled out a pair of fingernail clippers and started again with her instructions , here , take these .
now listen , when you put those clothes on youll look the part .
but youre not a member of any regiment .
regiment ?
yes , most reenactors are members of a regiment or a company or something .
daddy explained it all to me once , but i wasnt very interested .
the point is there arent many loners out there .
and , some reenactors take on a different persona they represent an actual civil war soldier , often one of their ancestors .
do you mean that im not supposed to be there unless i can verify that i had an ancestor who fought in the civil war ?
anna turned right at the end of her driveway , away from the battlefield , and said , no , i dont think its any kind of requirement .
im sure there are plenty of people participating that dont have a clue about their ancestors .
some arbitrarily choose a persona .
others dont they just show up .
anna paused , the point im trying to make is that if you have a persona you might find it easier to mingle , especially since youre alone .
where are you going ?
out into the valley , just for a minute .
its pretty id like you to see it .
besides , it will give you a chance to take off those stripes .
okay , i interjected , how does jedediah beauregard sound ?
as what ?
my persona .
if thats the best you can do , she said as she rolled her eyes .
seriously though , you should be prepared in case you get asked if youre with a regiment .
if i do ?
i dont know just say you havent joined a regiment yet .
of course that might prompt someone to try to recruit you .
if they do ?
its not a problem .
if that happens , who knows what you might learn ?
im not sure what i can learn in one night , but i may as well go through with it , if i cant hang out with you .
pulling threads from the stripes was a tedious job .
i could have easily slid my knife between the stripes and the jacket fabric and taken them off in a few seconds .
but my knife was in my backpack which was in my tent and i was too happy to be taking a relaxing ride with anna .
between snipping the threads , i looked up and saw , as anna promised , that little valley was indeed picturesque .
the first thing i noticed was how clear creek , mostly lined with sycamores and the occasional locust , curved back and forth across flat pasture land that was covered with thick grass .
the road crossed the creek in several places , each bridge recognizable by the guard rail and a slight rise in the road .
a small white farmhouse and a dilapidated barn were nestled on a low ridge that paralleled the eastern mountains .
perhaps a hundred cattle were clustered near the base of the ridge .
a farmer was driving his tractor away from a freshly turned plot of earth .
his disc was raised well above the ground and dust clouds billowed behind the wheels .
i absorbed the scene , and was reminded of the way i had become disengaged from the daily life of the working class while hiking week after week .
when we started hiking , memories of the people i had seen and places i had visited were vivid .
the knowledge that i would not see friends and acquaintances for months fostered warm relations before i left .
one friend threw me a party , others gave gifts and everyone wished me well .
these memories were easily accessed , even irrepressible , during the first days of hiking , but they had faded until the events of a few weeks earlier seemed distant and hard to distinguish from those that occurred years before .
eventually , i almost forgot about existence in the workaday world .
instead days were filled with endless walking , blisters and calluses , bug bites , extremes in weather and a general discomfort that eventually begins to feel normal .
i watched the farmer driving his tractor , and thought about the friends i hadnt seen since i boarded the plane to atlanta .
anna drove on quietly , her left hand resting lightly on the steering wheel and her right on the armrest between us .
i wanted to take her hand , but didnt .
she glanced at me and said , i guess we should get back .
i nodded .
she downshifted and turned into the parking lot of a mom and pop convenience store .
the name whites general store was painted on the sign in front .
as she turned the truck around , i quickly read signs in the store window .
between a green and orange neon sign that said lotto and a hand painted poster advertising a two piece fried chicken dinner with battered potato wedges and a large soft drink , was another sign that had confederate memorabilia stenciled on it 20 off was scribbled at the bottom .
on one side of the door was a four foot wooden statue of a native american with a full headdress and a tomahawk in his hand .
on the other side was a statue of a smallish , black man dressed in white knickers and a red shirt holding a lantern .
next to the male statue was another figure a plump black woman in a blue dress with a white turban wrapped around her head and a white apron around her waist .
as we pulled away from the front of the store , i looked up and saw a confederate flag flying overhead .
anna rolled back onto the road and accelerated .
i noticed that the house across the street had a flagpole in the front yard .
atop the pole was another confederate flag .
wow , i said without emphasis , they sure like rebels around here , dont they ?
you noticed .
noticed .
its like another world .
another country .
if i didnt know better id say you were trying to prove a point .
about what ?
dont play innocent .
we both know what you said about bigotry thriving in virginia .
did i say that ?
ah there are three or four more confederate flags flying between here and lynchburg .
i didnt take the local emphasis on the civil war seriously when we first moved here .
anna tightened her grip on the steering wheel .
but , the longer we live here ...
newspaper articles about civil war reenactments , historical pieces about someones ancestor or a house where who knows what confederate general slept .
and the flags the flags are everywhere .
one doesnt have to live here long to realize that shes stepped into an entirely different culture .
and , you know , it might all be okay if it werent for the conversations ive overheard in places like that mom and pop back there .
im living in the backyard of the final resting place of the confederate army and , i cant tell you how many times ive wanted to say get over it .
what do your folks say about it ?
mom doesnt like it .
she said that for years she rarely thought about the inequities and ugliness that she witnessed in her childhood .
she thought our generation had taken a big step forward .
but , after we moved here , that changed .
the flags , she says , are a constant reminder of the past .
anna laughed and said , now shes afraid that as she grows older and loses her mental faculties the ugly phrases that she overheard as a child will slip out .
mom is one of least prejudiced people i know and the thought of degrading another person , even innocently , hurts her deeply .
and your dad ?
i dont know .
its like hes moved on to another phase in life .
im not sure hes even noticed .
a few seconds later anna added , given his military background he might have had a lot to say about it ten years ago .
i quietly agreed and i let her continue .
but , he changed after his surgery .
something happens to the soul when they stop your heart from beating for that long .
anna sighed , i dont know anymore , ian .
maybe the stress of taking care of mom and dad has something to do with my dislike for this place .
im sure it did .
on the way back to the reenactment site i finished removing the stripes from the gray jacket .
anna pulled the truck up in front of mr. squires rv .
she left the engine running , making it obvious that she was in a hurry , but as i sat there with my hand on the door handle i said , i need to ask you something .
she turned toward me and smiled , but she did not speak .
is there someone else ?
she looked at me as though she wished i hadnt asked .
someone else ?
she sat there quietly , as if she was mentally rehearsing an answer .
yes anna , another guy ?
well , yes and no .
whats does that mean ?
well , i am having dinner with someone tonight .
hes picking me up to meet mom and dad , but i dont know how serious it is .
you dont know ?
anna looked into my eyes and said , ian , hes a nice guy .
he was such a help to mom and dad .
is he a doctor ?
therapist .
oh .
i see .
im not sure you do , but well have to talk about it later .
anna looked out the windshield .
how about you , ian ?
no one , i said .
i opened the door and stepped out of the truck .
the light of day was giving way to darkness .
i turned and looked at anna .
id forgotten how much i enjoy your company , i said .
she smiled and nodded as i closed the door .
i stood there and watched her drive away , noticing for the first time the red and white temporary tags on the truck and two patches of glue residue on either side of the back window .
i thought the residue might be from confederate flag stickers and decided that the truck had to be the same one max and i rode in when we came down from the mountain .
xii 6 40 pm lover boy , max said to me as i stepped inside the rv .
anna looks great , doesnt she ?
yes , she does , i said half heartedly .
that was enthusiastic , said max .
when i did not respond , he said , right , and changed the subject .
so , the foxhartes own this land ?
yes , i said .
you should see their house .
nice , huh ?
its a renovated old brick home .
beautiful place .
by the way , said max , your clothes are dry and folded .
he pointed to a stack of clothes lying on the dinette .
thanks , but i wont be needing those just now .
im joining the confederate army .
confederate army .
after a lengthy pause , max asked , was this your idea or annas ?
why do you ask ?
it sounds like her , he answered .
it was our idea , i guess .
she said shed like to do it herself thats how i got the idea .
there seems to be different opinions about reenacting .
so , i thought id see for myself .
max smirked and shook his head , making it clear that hed heard enough .
then he said , owen said we can sleep here tonight .
you sure thats okay ?
i mean , he was really tying one on .
its okay .
he didnt drink any more after you and anna left .
where is he now ?
junior showed up and they went to the grocery store .
how long have they been gone ?
i dont know .
long enough that they could be back any minute .
ive got to hurry then .
id prefer not to see owens son , especially after i get this uniform on .
i held up the jacket and other clothes that anna had given me .
im afraid id have a hard time answering any questions he might ask .
perhaps hed show you around , max said sarcastically .
funny i think id rather go by myself .
im less likely to get stuck with people id rather not be stuck with .
i see , max said as if he doubted my logic .
whered you get the uniform ?
the foxhartes .
the foxhartes ?
yeah , it seems people leave them behind all the time .
oh .
im going to change .
i walked back to the bathroom .
when i returned max was still sitting and watching television .
hooked again , max ?
i havent watched television in weeks .
thats a good thing .
owen has over three hundred channels , he said .
i suppose youre going to watch them all before we leave tomorrow .
maxs silence made my remark feel like a cheap shot .
i better go .
dont get caught , he said , still staring at the television .
they hang spies .
thats what anna said .
max looked up and said , then i suppose you better listen billy yank .
want to come with me ?
i asked .
no , he said emphatically .
i started for the door but stopped short , troubled by an uneasy feeling .
i suspected that i was about to enter into an almost sacred place where , if others understood how i came to be there , i might not be welcome .
perhaps as an attempt to find a way to justify what i was about to do , i asked , max , what do you think ill find out out there ?
max looked up from the television and said , ive been thinking about that .
and ?
oh , you may learn a little history , but other than that , i dont think youll find out much more than you already know .
whys that ?
i asked .
youll only be there for a few hours .
what can you really learn in a few hours ?
people out there are like people anywhere else they say hi , how are you ?
and engage in small talk but you wont learn much from them .
what am i trying to learn ?
you tell me ?
said max .
i dont know , i replied .
for one thing , im just curious .
i mean the whole idea of people coming together to reenact civil war battles is intriguing the history , i guess .
i could not think of anything better to say .
the history .
max made me feel like he wasnt satisfied with my answer .
i shrugged and added , i dont know .
some things just dont seem to add up .
he cut his eyes at me , like what ?
well , on the one hand , it just looks like a celebration a fad that will lose popularity in a few years .
but when i look at those newspaper clippings sitting over there , i pointed to the stack of papers setting in the kitchen , and when i look at some of the books in ms. thompsons little bookstore , i start to wonder .
then i ride out into the valley with anna , and i see confederate flags all over the place i find it even more troubling .
on the other hand , knowing that theres a union army and several black reenactors makes me think that my first impression is the right one its all just a way to get away for a while , like a hobby .
i stood silent for a moment , before i added , so , i guess im really just curious .
nothing wrong with that , said max .
but , like i said , dont expect to learn much .
people often hide their motives , especially when theyre involved in something controversial .
controversial ?
come on , max .
what are you hiding ?
max continued , youre probably too young to remember this , but there was a lot of heavy stuff that went down in charleston when we lived there in the 60s .
like what ?
like the civil rights movement , integration , riots , you name it , max answered .
i dont remember all the details , but a judge who lived on our street was presiding over a court case that had something to do with desegregation .
what i do remember is that he had national guard soldiers camped out at his house for weeks .
it seemed like everyday , late in the afternoon , a line of cars would parade by his house with people hanging out the windows cursing , some of them waving confederate flags .
you know , i remember that , i said , wondering whether or not my memories of standing outside the judges home listening to his son talk about the national guard soldiers were real .
did he have children ?
huh , replied max .
did his son knife the tires on the national guards jeep ?
max laughed , how in the hell do you remember that ?
i dont know , i said .
but thats what i remember most though i do remember watching the cars go by .
and , i remember seeing footage on the news .
blacks standing on one side of a fence arguing with whites that were standing on the other .
they seemed almost violent .
max corrected me .
no , they were violent .
things got ugly .
i remember it well , too well .
now that i think about it , i even remember the first black student in my classroom at harbortown elementary .
i distinctly remember the principal escorting her into the class and seating her in the back of the room .
a lot of silly things went on back then .
what else ?
i asked .
it was interesting to listen to max talk about events that i could only recall in the vaguest way .
do you remember queens branch academy ?
yeah , i answered , but thats in virginia .
doesnt matter , he replied .
do you know why it was established ?
no .
it and many others like it were started back in the 60s .
white people didnt want their kids going to desegregated schools , so they started private schools like queens branch no blacks allowed .
in some places they even shut down the public school systems .
really .
for several years some counties didnt offer any kind of public education .
in some places , right here in of virginia , there are middle aged black men and women who have very little formal education only because the public schools in the county they grew up in were closed down .
for how long ?
five , six , seven years .
queens branch closed down didnt it ?
not exactly its now called the blanchard school .
some guy , named blanchard , donated thirty million dollars to keep it going forever .
is it integrated ?
barely .
max sat up on the edge of his seat and said , get this several years ago i interviewed for a job there .
i go in and the man tells me the job doesnt pay much , but then he asks me if i have kids .
i said , yes , i have two .
then he leans forward and asks me quietly , as though he didnt want anyone to hear , do they go to the county school ?
i answered , yes .
then he asked in the same quiet voice , are you happy with the education theyre getting ?
then he winked and said , you do understand what im asking you , mr. hamilton .
now i could never prove anything by the words the man used , but it seemed obvious to me that he was a racist .
seriously ?
i asked max , although i already knew the answer .
listen , ian , i really dont know what you might find out , out there .
obviously , reenactments seem tailor made for guys like that and , i dont doubt that there are some like him around here .
i nodded .
that guy we saw when we first got here , you know , the confederate officer .
for all we know , he could be like the man i talked to at the blanchard school .
but guys like that are smart , very smart .
theyre not going to walk up to you and give you an application to join a white supremacist group without knowing something about you first .
no , i guess not .
a few seconds later , max added , to be fair , i guess we should consider the other side of this thing .
the guys i know that reenact , they dont seem prejudiced , at least not too the degree that weve been talking about not even close .
i work with some of them , sit with them at ballgames and go to parties at their homes .
from what ive seen the color of a mans skin doesnt matter to them .
i know one guy whos got a room in his house filled with pictures and documents and other things that belonged to his ancestors .
the room is like a museum .
hes got a letter that a woman wrote to her husband while he was off fighting in the revolutionary war .
hes got pictures of uncles and grandparents who fought in world wars , korea and vietnam , not to mention the civil war .
hes got pieces of uniforms , discharge papers , medals and a ton of other stuff .
he says that war related artifacts are sometimes easier to come by .
people write more letters , save official documents maxs words continued to pour over me as i stood by the door trying to imagine what i would encounter as i mingled among the reenactors .
i shifted back and forth between two different images .
in one , i was sitting in front of a small campfire where men were talking about the hardships and gruesome realities endured by their ancestors .
these men spoke reverently and in great detail .
in the other image , there was a raging bonfire with a rapidly rising column of red hot embers surrounded by men pumping confederate flags in the air and shouting slogans like the south will rise again and long live dixie .
the second image frightened me and i considered taking the confederate uniform off and spending the evening with max , watching a movie .
so , i heard max say , you better hurry .
owen and junior will be back any minute .
i looked up and said distractedly , ive got another question .
whats that ?
whats it been like for you ?
what do you mean ?
asked max .
growing up in a time when things changed so much .
between the races ?
yeah .
max hesitated and his eyes shifted around , as if he was looking for an answer .
finally , he sighed and said , didnt think about it so much when i was a kid .
but somehow , as ive gotten older , its all seems more complicated .
i wonder what it was like for mom and dad .
it cant be easy to put ones experiences behind and start all over .
yet , they seemed to change with the times .
maybe they understood all along that race should never be a basis for how people are treated , despite what they might have learned as kids growing up in the south .
umm , suddenly agitated , max said , stop asking me all these questions .
just one more .
what now ?
what was the name of the woman who helped mom out around the house ?
max pulled back .
when we lived in charleston ?
he asked .
yeah .
betty , he answered softly .
he lowered his head and the same expression i had seen on his face that morning , when he was sitting by the fire whistling , returned to his face .
i didnt think you remembered her , he said .
i didnt know that i did .
i stepped out of the rv and walked toward the confederate camp .
xiii 7 00 pm little valley was now immersed in the shadows of twilight .
the orange glow along the western ridge provided barely enough light for me to easily see my way across the open field .
earlier in the day , when max and i walked into the reenactment site for the first time , i had noticed the circular arrangement of the tents in the confederate camp .
i wondered if the scene was authentic the army before me appeared to be an easy target for union cannons or sharpshooters positioned on the distant hill .
at dusk the camp became more inviting with its muskets still neatly stacked in tripods next to the fires , the many white canvas tents reflecting the flickering yellow flames and the shadows of men sitting around talking and smoking .
the steady wind that was blowing earlier in the day had settled and the confederate flag now was wavering gently in the breeze .
i looked for an inconspicuous place to climb the fence and enter unseen , but i suddenly realized that i felt confident enough to walk through an opening where a man was sitting on a rail .
evening , the man said .
evening , i replied and stopped to talk .
he appeared to be in his mid to late twenties .
he was lean with broad , square shoulders , a clean shaven face , and light hair .
he was at least six feet tall .
he struck me as the kind of guy one would choose first in a pick up game of football or basketball , just because he looked athletic .
nice uniform authentic looking .
i assumed his remark was a compliment and responded , thanks , its just something a friend of mine threw together .
i pulled on the collar and said , the shirts not quite right , but the rest works .
how long you been working on that beard ?
couple of months .
looks just like what i imagine a soldiers beard would look like .
like youve been out in the woods for a few months .
whats your name ?
i asked .
officially my name is ben foster , but for a few days each year its jedediah powell .
i laughed , then stopped myself and said , sorry , its just that i was recently considering the name jedediah for myself .
i didnt want to explain how i came up with that name , so i quickly asked , was jedediah powell an ancestor ?
yes , a great great great uncle on my mothers side .
he fought with the 2nd virginia infantry .
how long you been doing this ?
couple a years , said ben .
how about you ?
first time .
are you with a regiment ?
he asked .
no , i just arrived today .
my brother and a few friends are here too , but theyre not reenacting .
i silently reasoned that my response was only a slight stretch of the truth since i was , for the moment , playing the part .
i really dont know much about reenactments .
ben reached into a haversack and pulled out a couple of strips of dried meat .
care for some jerky ?
no thanks , i replied .
reenacting means different things to different people , he began .
so ive heard .
i paused to let him continue .
for me its , well , personal , but i try not to make a big deal out of it .
ive got the basic uniform and equipment and i come once a year .
so howd you get started ?
poppa , that was my grandfather , and i used to talk a lot .
i loved to hear him talk about his past .
he was a retired air force major saw a lot in his life .
he served in world war ii that is , he piloted a bomber over enemy territory eighteen times .
he also served in the korean war .
when he talked about his war service , heck , when he talked about anything , it came alive for me .
i guess i think in pictures , you know .
and poppa , he knew how to draw pictures with his words .
anyhow , before he died he asked me to piece together our family history .
he gave me some good leads .
i was instantly impressed with bens sincerity and what apparently was a strong relationship with his grandfather .
not many people would take the time ben had taken to indulge an aging grandparents need to bridge the gap between generations .
i listened closely .
he first told me all about his father and some about his grandfather .
then he took me to a church in williamsburg and showed me the name of one of my ancestors on a plaque .
i remember walking down the aisle with him he had one hand on my arm and held his cane in the other .
we got about halfway down the aisle when he stopped .
he lifted his cane and said , look over here .
we walked toward the plaque .
get me close , he said , my eyesights not good anymore .
we stepped up to the plaque and poppa lifted his cane .
see that name there , thats your kin .
i dont know much about him , but i do know hes your kin .
i looked and saw the name john powell .
when we walked out of the church he said to me , find out what you can about our family , and keep me posted .
its the last thing this old man wants .
as a sort of postscript he added , some of it you wont like and some of it youll be damned proud of .
did you ask him what he meant by that ?
sort of , i asked him if he had more to tell me .
ben squeezed his lips together and looked into the camp .
let me ask you something , he said .
sure .
ben lowered his voice .
youre not prejudiced , are you ?
ben had given himself the answer he wanted but i responded anyway , id like to think that im not , but to be honest , i think its a question we all should ask ourselves .
we may not be conscious of it , but were probably all a little prejudice .
i dont know if that makes any sense .
makes perfect sense .
thats what id say about myself .
i nodded and smiled , thinking that he was comfortable enough to tell me more about his ancestors .
he reflected for a moment before he began talking again .
theres actually two stories that i find interesting and , ive only got minor hints of the first one .
poppa told me that if i looked back far enough i might find some evidence of black birding .
black birding ?
i dont know where that term came from , but its another name for slave trading .
illegal slave trading , i think .
slave trading , i said in a hushed tone .
something to be proud of , huh , ben said with distinct sarcasm .
well i looked into it and sure enough one of my ancestors was involved in slave trading .
after a lot of research i actually found a ledger .
the ledger confirmed that a j. rogers powell delivered slaves to charleston .
this was in the late 1700s .
not something that poppa or i was happy to learn .
guess not , i said as i envisioned a ship sailing into the harbor of charleston .
for a moment i imagined what it would be like to be down in the bowels of a slave ship with a crowded mass of half naked slaves dehydrated and starving .
i shivered slightly and hoped that ben had not noticed .
but there are other relatives , continued ben .
in my great grandparents house i found a diary among a stack of books in the attic that gave a brief history of jedediah powell .
according to the diary , which was written by my great grandmother , jedediah inherited eight slaves from his father in law .
the entry in the diary went something like learning of his inheritance he loaded the slaves on his wagon , took them to pennsylvania , fed them , clothed them , split the inheritance money between them and freed them .
i found it interesting that he took them to pennsylvania .
but according to what i read , jedediah felt that former slaves would not be able to prosper in virginia .
do you know what became of them ?
no .
part of me would like to find out and part of me would not .
why not ?
i asked .
ive read that slaves that were taken into non slave states and given their freedom were sometimes lynched .
seems that white craftsman and mill workers feared that blacks would take their jobs .
ben and i were quiet for a moment .
i envisioned eight former slaves rejoicing over their newfound freedom .
unfortunately , that vision was followed by an image of a black man hanging from a tree .
i wondered if ben was having the same thoughts .
so , did jedediah fight in the war ?
i asked .
yes .
for the confederacy ?
for the confederacy .
he died right here on this battlefield in 1865 .
two of his sons fought here too .
after the battle they traded their guns for a horse , aiming to take jedediahs body home to be buried .
they strapped the body across the back of the horse and set out walking .
but a couple of days into the journey , the stench of the body was too much for his sons and they buried him in a cemetery in richmond .
some years later his body was exhumed and returned home .
ah , so thats why youre here .
mostly .
its for my grandfather too .
when he heard the story about jedediah and his sons he said that i should find a way to honor their memory .
coming out here once a year is the best way ive found so far .
i wondered if there were others like ben out on the battlefield .
the time hed shared with his grandfather and the many hours he spent fulfilling his grandfathers wish tied him to the past .
hed found out the good and the bad and hed chosen reenacting as a way to honor the good .
thinking about jedediahs sacrifice , i said , he almost made it , didnt he ?
who ?
ben asked .
jedediah the war was almost over when he fought in this battle .
almost .
so , i asked , do you think your grandfather already knew about your ancestors ?
i think he had heard some of it , but he didnt know that it had been recorded .
i think he just wanted to make sure that it was passed down . ''
i wished i had the patience to do something like that .
actually , it was a fascinating experience , said ben .
hours and hours of digging through old documents in a musty county clerks office or the basement of a library .
fascinating stuff .
ben and i sat quietly on the rail for a few minutes and watched the sparks from a nearby campfire rise into the night .
a waning quarter moon had risen over the mountain to the east .
the air was cool , but comfortable .
so , why are you hanging out here all alone ?
i asked .
im on guard duty .
guard duty , i responded , realizing that ben might have the authority to stop me from entering the camps .
yes .
you mean im supposed to have permission to enter ?
supposedly , but youre okay , he said reassuringly .
some people might not let you in , but as far as im concerned anyone that looks as much like a hardcore as you do can go right in .
i was surprised to hear that ben thought i looked like a hardcore , but decided against probing for any explanations .
instead , i was preoccupied with the thought that someone like the sneering officer with the red sash around his waist might show up and ask for my papers .
i decided to hide myself among the other reenactors inside the camp before someone came to relieve ben .
well , i think its time for me to move on .
i stuck out my hand and said , i think jedediah powell and your grandfather would be proud .
proud ?
proud of you .
ben dropped his head slightly and smiled .
then he quietly said , thanks .
we shook hands and i walked away , leaving him sitting on the fence .
xiv 7 20 pm i left ben and slowly walked toward a campfire burning just beyond the perimeter of the outer circle of tents .
there were at least ten men seated around the fire .
i wasnt sure if i should approach , but before i had a chance to decide someone said , take a seat , stranger .
realizing id been spotted , i stepped forward and said , sorry to bother you .
a softly smiling man , sitting on the other side of the fire said , forget it .
have a seat if you like .
the two men seated just in front of me shifted , making ample room between them for me to sit in front of the fire .
someone else rolled a log into the open space and the man who had first spoken to me said , that one looks comfortable .
thanks , i said and sat down .
two sizable logs had just been added to the burning remains of many other pieces of wood that radiated heat from the fire .
havent seen you around here , said the smiling man .
no , just got here today .
ever been here before ?
no , not in this lifetime anyway , i answered .
i was trying to be funny but my response was met with blank stares .
so , what brings you here ?
the smiling man asked .
well i hesitated .
curiosity more than anything else .
another reenactor spoke out .
curiosity , he said as though he didnt trust me .
lighten up , said the smiling man .
dont mind dexter , he comes off like he dont like no one .
i looked at dexter and he reacted with a toothy grin .
i nodded and said , dexter , trying to sound respectful .
others that were sitting around the fire laughed until dexter leaned to the side and farted .
the man sitting next to him stood up and said , dexter , you stinking moron , this is a civil war reenactment .
if you wanta do blazing saddles , go somewhere else .
my names bob , said the smiling man .
i assumed he was some kind of leader within the group .
youve got to forgive my brother .
if i didnt know better , id say he was a little touched .
bob then introduced me to other men sitting around the campfire .
course you wont remember their names , he said , but it dont matter no how .
so , whats your name ?
ian .
are you with a regiment , ian ?
asked bob .
ah , no .
no im not .
well , dont let that bother you , he replied .
theres others like you hanging around .
sometimes it takes a while to find a group of guys youre comfortable with .
i nodded and said , sounds reasonable .
the man sitting next to me tapped me on the arm and asked , care for some jerky ?
no thanks , i replied .
good stuff , he said .
dried venison .
he waggled a piece of meat in my face .
sure , why not ?
i took the jerky and bit off a piece .
i was pleasantly surprised by the sweet flavor .
bob spoke again , we represent the virginia 1202nd .
theres about twenty more of us .
he motioned toward the other camp .
some of them are serving the union army this weekend .
others couldnt make it .
i turned my head toward the union camp and could see the flickering light of scattered campfires .
so reenactors will , shall i say , cross over to the other side ?
only the traitors , said dexter .
bob added , we wouldnt have reenactments in the south if it wasnt for the guys from our side willing to put on a union uniform .
not all reenactors will do it , but we dont mind .
so , how many reenactments do you get to in a year ?
go to as many as we can usually two or three .
good chance to hop on our hogs and get away from it all for a weekend .
life kinda slows down , you know no tv , no traffic , not much in the way of modern distractions , good company to sit around and chat with kind of lifestyle thats fast becoming a thing of the past .
you guys own harleys ?
most of us do , said bob .
how about you ?
dexter asked .
no , no motorcycle , just a good pair of hiking boots .
reminds me of what goes on at night in a huntin cabin , said the man seated to the right of me .
his name was flapp i presumed it was because his ears were extraordinarily large .
one couldnt help but notice the three studded earrings in his left ear .
fellas just sittin around shootin the breeze , ya know .
another man added , if this was hunting season , i sure as hell wouldnt be here .
me either , said dexter .
i glanced around at each of the mens faces .
dexter was still looking at me as though he wished i would go away .
do you ever bring your families ?
i asked .
a few men nodded .
one said , hell no .
how about you , asked flapp , your family here ?
just my brother hes visiting with a friend right now , though .
where you from ?
bob asked .
i grew up in tidewater .
lived in south carolina and other places , but i consider myself a virginian .
good choice , said dexter .
bob added , see , he aint so bad .
i didnt know if he was talking to me or dexter .
dexter asked , how long you been workin on that there beard ?
a few months , i replied .
damn good beard .
good outfit too .
ifn you was a more wiry sort of guy id say you was a hardcore .
hardcore , i repeated , recalling ms. thompsons description .
do you know what a hardcore is ?
asked dexter .
yeah , sort of .
i said .
you dont sound too sure about that .
ill tell ya what a hardcore is .
dexter continued , hardcores the kinda guy who wants everything about reenactments to be authentic right down to the dirt .
why , theyd use real bullets ifn theyd let em .
but we dont .
aint too many hardcores here this time on account so many of us brought tents .
by the time this battle took place in 1865 there wasnt many tents to be had by the rebels .
anyway , theres a few hardcores out yonder spoonin tonight .
spooning ?
i responded .
yeah , when it gets cold these guys kinda snuggle up to one another to keep warm .
they dont get faggy or nothin , they just do it cause they say thats what soldiers done to survive .
wan na talk to somebody bout what it was really like in the war talk to a hardcore .
them boys , they know things about the war no one else does .
i reckon im right when i say they dont like us being here cause were not so picky .
they call people like us , farbs .
i hesitated to ask , but i couldnt resist , farb ?
yeah , farb , replied dexter .
i dont know exactly what farb stands for , but its basically someone who dont care much bout being authentic .
people like us , were just here to have a good time .
we dont care nothin much about being authentic .
but the hardcores , they know if it werent for us they wouldnt have reenactments to come to , cause there aint enough of em .
so they tolerate us .
flapp interrupted .
if i didnt know better , dexter , id say youve had too much to drink .
i aint drank nothing since dinner , flapp .
drank water then .
go on with your story , dexter , said flapp .
i aint telling no story , im just trying to tell our friend here bout hardcores and farbs and spoonin .
bob said , i think hes got the picture .
you want a story , ill tell you a story .
but i werent tellin our friend here no story .
i thought i would like dexter to tell a story , although i felt that i was the only one .
before i had a chance to be disappointed , a young guy sitting next to bob said , tell us a story , dexter .
i might have believed that the young man was just being considerate if the rest of the group hadnt responded to his request with a simultaneous groan .
i sensed that the group had heard enough of dexters stories .
but it was too late .
bob tried to stop dexter , but he insisted on telling a story .
well , this here storys bout my great grandfather on my mamas side , william roe most people called him daddy roe .
now , daddy roe , he was a hard man .
folks that knew him says that near bout every other word that come outa his mouth was a curse word .
g.d. this and to hell with that .
i reckon he was that way cause he warnt a big man , but he always had a big mans job .
he worked on the water all his life .
lived on marys island , which case you dont know is just northeast off the mouth of the potomac .
its only four miles long and one mile wide bout half of its marsh land , filled with skeeters in the summertime .
back in daddy roes day , the only way on and off the island was by boat or ferry .
anyhows , daddy roe , he owned a couple of work boats used em for crabbin , fishin and oysterin .
he always had a bunch a fellas workin for him big round shouldered guys , the kinda shoulders one gets when he spends days workin with shaft tongs these were the kinda men that wouldnt take much crap off nobody .
so daddy roe , he had to be a hard man to keep fellas like that from gettin outa hand .
hard as he was though , he had a reputation for being fair and for standin up for what he believed in .
ifn im not mistaken he was a deacon in the church .
as dexter talked he made a variety of gestures with his hands .
when he described the way daddy roe looked , he used his hands to illustrate size or shape .
he made a fist when he described a characteristic like hard man .
everyone in the group looked intently at dexter as he continued .
well , at one time marys island was integrated meanin both black and white folks lived there .
that was way back during the first part of the 1900s , i think .
as you might magine , back then there was lotta whites folks that didn care much for havin blacks livin on the island .
they was always blamin anything that went wrong on the blacks .
somebody steal somethin , it was the blacks that done it somebody get scared by somethin in the night , it was blacks trying to get em .
talk went on like that for years .
then one day a white man accuses a black man of cuttin him up and robbin him a few days before christmas .
the white man went around tellin other white folks his story , gettin em all stirred up like they was ready to lynch somebody .
now youll have to forgive me , but heres where the story gets messed up .
for a long time , i believed that daddy roe rounded up all the blacks and told them that they had twenty four hours to get off the island , and twenty four hours later they was all gone .
thats the story my grandmother told me .
one day , though , i come across some old newspapers in my granddaddys attic .
this granddaddy was daddy roes son in law .
when i read these newspapers , the old story about daddy roe runnin all the blacks off the island didn add up .
as best i could tell a white man was cut up and a black man was later accused and put in jail for it .
a paper dated some weeks later had a short article about how all the blacks had left marys island .
i was confused , so i asked my granddaddy bout it .
he told a different story than grandma .
he said that the trial was typical of the times .
an all white jury saw a white man whod been cut up , tellin that hed been knifed by the black man .
course the black man said he didn do it , but the all white jury didn believe him .
granddaddy said that after the trial daddy roe overheard one of the white men talkin bout how hed lied , that he and the other white man had been drunk and got in a fight with each other things got a little outa hand and one cut the other up .
now while the black man was in jail , some of the whites on the island started talking bout lynchin him when he gets out .
the whole thing kinda snowballs , and the next thing you know lotta black folks on the island start gettin death threats .
meantime , the black man gets outa jail , goes home to marys island , hears that some white folks is out to get him .
so he gets drunk and runs off into the woods scared to death i reckon .
at some point , daddy roe , he gets wind of whats goin on and meets with a group of blacks at a church .
granddaddy said that they decided that the safest thing to do was to leave the island .
so that night daddy roe and my other great grandfather , granddaddys father , run several boatloads of black folk , with all the belongings they could carry , over to the mainland .
course the black man thats in the most danger , hes nowhere to be found .
my great grandfather later finds him hidin in the church attic .
granddaddy said his father had a hard time convincing the man to come with him .
seems the black man was afraid he was takin him into some kinda trap .
but they finally got him on the boat and took him across to the mainland .
i asked granddaddy why someone didnt just tell the law that the two white men had lied .
he said that back then it wouldna done much good .
the law werent often friendly to blacks .
dexter looked around and said , i guess thats about it .
instantly , flapp asked , dexter , are you proud of your great grandfather ?
im proud of all my great grandfathers .
but shouldnt they have stood up to the other whites on the island ?
ifn youre talkin bout absolute right and wrong , i suppose they could have .
but the way i see it , there was many things that had to be considered .
what do you mean many things ?
asked flapp .
i knew what dexter meant by many things and so did everyone else sitting around the fire , including flapp .
daddy roe took a risk by getting involved in the first place .
perhaps his first concern was for everyones safety , including his own , his familys , and that of the blacks and even the whites .
daddy roe did his best to make sure no one got hurt and no one did .
sure , he could have taken a stronger stand .
in fact , one might argue that he should have .
one might even argue that he should have disclosed the truth and been prepared to fight , literally , to bring justice to the white men and to uphold the rights of the blacks to stay on marys island , but he did act , and he acted in a sensible way .
i couldnt help but wonder what would have happened to all the jewish people in cracow if oskar schindler had taken the kind of absolute stand that flapp was alluding to against the nazis .
marys island was no prison camp , but in the early twentieth century im sure it wasnt above bloodshed over racial issues .
im sure there was more to daddy roe than we would ever know , good and bad .
at that moment , i felt sorry for dexter .
it seemed that flapp had backed him into a corner .
but dexter surprised me .
look , flapp , he said .
prejudice is a lot like a flower bulb .
what ?
asked flapp , who , like the rest of us , had no idea what dexter was talking about .
prejudice is a lot like lookin at a flower bulb sometimes its hard to know what kind of flower is inside all the layers around it .
the layers is things like color , like how much money or education somebodys got , like different languages and religion .
and maybe you see things like the way laborers look at the bosses or republicans look at democrats when theyre watching a presidential nomination democrats cant say nothing right cause republicans know theyre democrats how would they act if they didnt ?
works the other way around too .
you guys know what im talkin about .
some people dont like me , flapp .
theyre prejudiced against me cause im a big , goofy looking guy that talks funny .
the way i see it , those things about me thats different are just some of my layers .
thats the way people are , they cant get past other peoples layers and see whats inside .
you cant tell if youre looking at a tulip or a wild onion if you look too closely at the skin .
flapp was shaking his head .
the motion of his ears made it even more apparent why he was called flapp .
finally he said , youve been watching too many movies , dex .
it dont matter so long as i watch the right ones .
dexter , said bob , youre a hell of a lot smarter than i thought .
ive been tryin to tell ya , bob .
guess i shouldve been listening , he replied .
dexters story and the friendly bantering among them made me realize that this was a group of men who enjoyed each others company .
perhaps it was a common interest in the civil war that brought them together , but i sensed that could have just as easily been something else .
perhaps all that was needed was an opportunity to sit around a campfire eating jerky and sharing stories .
i wondered what would happen if the popularity of reenactments began to wane would i encounter this group of men camping next to a lake or on a mountain or in a cabin somewhere ?
xv 7 45 pm someone standing behind me asked , dexter , have you been talking about daddy roe again ?
i turned to look and there stood two black men dressed in blue uniforms .
i was certain they were two of the men involved in the hand to hand combat during the battle earlier in the day .
one of the men looked down at me and said , whered this hardcore come from ?
he aint no hardcore , not yet anyway , said bob .
he aint , the same man said before he bent down , shook my hand and introduced himself .
my name is reginald , people call me reg .
this is darin , he said pointing to the man standing beside him , and if youll excuse me for a second i need to do a little follow up with bob .
reg looked up and said , bob if hes not a hardcore , then how do you explain that fine beard and uniform hes wearing ?
everyone turned towards bob to hear his answer .
this is his first reenactment , he hardly knew what a hardcore was until we explained .
come on , bob , you know a man doesnt choose to be a hardcore , hardcore chooses him .
reg , are you going to start with that hardcore business again ?
youre as bad as dexter .
flapp leaned over and said to me , bunch of us work together and these two go on like this all the time .
the other day reg started talking about how he sees hardcores showing up everywhere .
as he puts it they cant help themselves .
bob looked at me and said , reg and darin are part of our regiment .
theyre registered with us and they pay our dues , but they wont wear a confederate uniform .
not hard to understand why .
in fact , i said raising my voice so reg could hear me , im surprised they dont find the whole reenactment thing offensive .
reg responded by twirling his finger around as if including all the men sitting around the fire .
i dont find this offensive , but now he pointed toward the other end of camp where the large tent was positioned i might find something over there offensive .
thats a different regiment over there thats the neo confederate army .
darin and i work with most of these guys theyre the ones that got us into this stuff .
theyve tried to get us to go hunting with them , but i told them im not too interested in being around when the real bullets start flying .
so , how did they convince you ?
i asked reg .
one day at work bob , flapp , and a couple of other guys were talking about reenactments .
they didnt know it , but when i heard that word i began listening , very carefully .
i had always associated reenactments with hate groups , but i was confident that these guys , guys id been working with for years , were not members of some kind of hate group .
and as i listened , i didnt hear anything indicating that i was wrong .
later that day i asked bob what they were talking about .
after a long explanation i required a long explanation bob said to me , reg , why don t you come along next time ?
my immediate reply was honky , youre crazy .
but , i said id think about it .
that day when i got home i started doing some research on the internet .
like you , i didnt expect to find anyone like me involved in reenacting .
i started my search and at first i didnt care too much for what i saw , but then i typed the words african american civil war reenact .
i got a long list of hits .
i double clicked one and the next thing i knew i was reading about the 54th massachusetts .
thats the regiment that was portrayed in the movie glory .
i read on and found out that theres a group of 54th massachusetts reenactors .
blacks only , that was an interesting twist .
anyway , i clicked more hits and found out that there are quite a few african american men doing this stuff .
the one that really surprised me , though , was the guy from virginia that reenacts for the confederacy .
when i saw that , i decided i had to come along i wanted to talk to that man .
bob spoke up .
reg is our historian .
if you want to know anything about the civil war , just ask him .
once he got started researching we couldnt stop him .
i wondered what darin thought about reenactments , so i looked at him and asked , what do you think ?
its like reg said , its easy to get caught up in it all once you realize how much black americans took an active part in the war .
darin reflected for a moment and added , of course its not for everyone , and many people , both black and white , ask us why we do it .
what do you tell em ?
i asked .
if they really want to know , we tell them the same thing reg just told you .
bob stirred the fire and a flurry of firefly like sparks and white ash drifted into the dark sky .
ive heard about the 54th massachusetts , i remarked .
but i dont know much else about black americans part in the war .
reg spoke up .
more than a hundred and eighty thousand black troops fought on the union side , and nearly thirty thousand died on the battlefield .
obviously , things were different on the confederate side .
many southerners didnt want blacks fighting for the south .
one general wrote jeff davis to say that if slaves were made into good soldiers then the whole idea of slavery must be wrong .
i laughed when i read that letter sure supports the argument that the war was about slavery .
maybe it was about other things too , but theres no doubt it was about slavery .
reg turned to darin .
what was that generals name ?
cobb , i think , answered darin .
thats right , howell cobb .
he was from georgia .
anyway , its hard to get a reliable count of the number of blacks who actually fought for the confederacy .
some estimate that it was tens of thousands .
as to why they fought , who really knows ?
some historians deny that blacks actually fought for the south .
they argue that many were forced to support the war effort in a variety of ways jobs like cooking , maintaining clothes and equipment , you know , behind the lines kind of work .
others argue that they fought to preserve their way of life , but that doesnt make much sense to me , especially if they were slaves .
as reg talked it became clear that different people had different interpretations of the civil war .
for a moment i wondered if only the pure historians priority was to document history as accurately as possible .
it was a mild revelation to me to hear that others might try to use historical facts and figures to their advantage at the expense of discovering the truth .
i should not have been surprised , but i was .
maybe , reg said when i once again began to follow his words , a few free blacks fought for the south , hoping to protect their freedom .
maybe others fought to defend women and children .
its easy to believe that some hot headed yankee officer would give orders for everyone on the confederate side to be killed when something like that happens , almost anyone would pick up a gun and defend themselves and the defenseless ones around them .
everyone sat quietly listening to reg .
sometimes the black men who fought for the north didnt have it much better .
i read that half the 28th usct died in petersburg , while the union generals sat in a bomb shelter getting drunk .
realizing that the odds of that battle werent good , the generals selected the black regiments to lead the charge .
at least their white commanding officers fought and died beside them .
like bob said , when i got started studying , i couldnt stop .
i can quote you all kinds of facts and figures , give you details about different battles , but the one thing thats hard to understand sometimes is peoples motives .
when you try to understand what made people willing to sacrifice so many lives you just end up with a convoluted , mixed up mess of a story .
look at lee , a man who apparently didnt believe in slavery , serving out of loyalty as the commanding general of the south .
i suppose that when he sorted things out , his feelings about slavery werent as strong as the loyal feelings he had for the south .
he weighed things out , reg motioned toward dex , just like daddy roe weighed them out , but lee and too many others like him cared more about something other than how wrong it is to put a lash to a mans back to get him to work for a little food and shelter .
interesting , how a man can make a single decision and become a hero to some people and something like a demon to others .
i dont always get it , said reg , but those guys over there , the ones in the inner sanctum he pointed to the area surrounded by tents im sure they can explain it for you theyve got all the answers .
one of the men who hadnt spoke since i arrived picked up a cup and dribbled spit into it , while a few of us watched him .
when he finished , he sat down his cup and two other men picked up their own cups and did the same thing .
thankfully that no one else followed .
so reg , said flapp , whos going down tomorrow ?
its your turn , flapp , reg told him .
listen , fellas , interrupted bob .
too many of you are not going down when you should .
anytime an army shoots a few hundred rounds from fifty yards and only two guys die , its not right , is it ?
most of the men shook their heads .
dexter spoke out .
i seen every bullet that was fired at me today , bob , and i ducked every time one got near .
real funny , bob replied .
now listen , guys , were going to play some high card draw , and the five guys drawing the highest cards get to live tomorrow , the others must die .
fair enough , said dexter .
how about you , ian , you want some of this action ?
i should have deferred .
instead i said why not ?
knowing that i would not be there the next day .
dexter said , you know that means youll have to fight with us tomorrow .
i understand .
bob informed everyone , okay then , with ian in , the six high cards get to live .
one of the men pulled a deck of cards from a haversack , shuffled the cards and passed them to dexter .
dexter pulled out a card and said , im a dead man .
he showed us the three of diamonds .
when it was my turn i pulled out the jack of hearts , and as it turned out i was one of the lucky six i hoped there wouldnt be an argument about who would take my place .
regs comment about the inner sanctum made me realize that i needed to spend some time inside the circle of tents .
intending to make my way into the core of the camp i stood up and announced , well , gentlemen , i think im going to move on .
sounds like theres a lot to see out here .
you goin in there ?
dexter asked as he motioned toward the tents .
i was hoping to .
id tell you to say youre from the virginia 1202nd , added dexter , but theyd probably throw you out .
tell them you want to know more about the cause , suggested reg .
the cause ?
yeah , dexter interjected , cordin to them the war was about the north imposin a way of life on the south .
the cause is all about fightin for a way of life .
reg told ya , it wasnt about slavery .
ill be sure to ask .
dexter , dont scare the man to death , said flapp .
he oughta be scared ifn hes goin in there .
i tipped my hat and said , see you gentlemen later .
tomorrow .
tomorrow , i replied and stepped away from the circle .
instead of walking between the tents , i began walking toward the union encampment .
look , hes chickened out , someone said .
better get another uniform if youre going up there , someone else called out .
dont step on any spooners was the last comment i heard as i laughed along with a group of men who couldnt hear me .
meandering my way across the battlefield to the union side , i looked for hardcores along the way .
i walked along the dilapidated stone wall , the edge of the battlefield and the outcropping of rocks that the confederate reenactors had used for cover during the mock battle earlier in the day .
i was disappointed not to find anyone and presumed that they were all hanging out in the camps waiting until bedtime to endure the cold and loneliness that i had been led to believe was the trademark of a hardcores life .
somewhere along the way , i began to think that i had led myself on the proverbial snipe hunt .
xvi reflection the year anna and i graduated from college was the last time we spent more than a couple of weeks together .
anna was home for a month , but was scheduled to leave with a group of amherst graduates for a year of missionary work in south america they were going to study aboriginal cultures .
while anna was in college she traveled extensively .
she spent the holidays , spring breaks , a few summer months and semesters working for different charitable organizations .
while i was in college , the only place i traveled was to fort lauderdale during spring break .
i always spent the holidays at my parents and hung out with friends from high school .
during the summer i worked on a yacht that took hotel guests on dinner cruises .
the elderly jet set crowd i catered to didnt need my charity .
late one warm june afternoon , before the oppressive humidity of summer arrived on the chesapeake bay , anna and i were together at her home .
her parents owned a seventy acre estate , befitting a double dipping retired colonel .
the estate was named elmford , after what was reputed to be the largest american elm tree in virginia .
it took three adults , with hands joined , to circle the trunk .
the domed canopy of leaves was more than fifty feet in diameter .
in the late spring , when the leaves matured , the branches bent low and touched the ground .
there were several cables running through the branches holding the tree together .
it was like a dinosaur struggling not to collapse under its own weight .
elmford was a peninsula that was bound along the northern , eastern and southern sides by more than a mile of shoreline of a tidal creek that drained into the bay .
the foxhartes owned an ancient forty two foot chris craft appropriately named anna .
the colonel was fond of the varnished wood look that went out of style when fiberglass became the primary building material of more modern speedboats and yachts .
anna was kept in a boathouse that looked conspicuously like the foxhartes home .
my mother often said , the foxhartes have more money tied up in that boat house than we have in our home .
she was probably right .
close to the boathouse were a heated swimming pool and a tennis court .
the afternoon began with anna and me playing tennis .
we were fairly matched for skill but not for temperament .
if i didnt ace anna with a good serve , she would volley me into fatigue with what i assumed were high priced ground strokes .
anna was an efficient tennis player for every one step she took , i took three .
she seemed to stand at the back of center court patiently waiting for me to make a mistake , while i hustled around struggling to return her well positioned shots .
she typically won , or perhaps more accurately , i typically lost .
our match that day was typical .
we swam for a while after tennis but as the sun set , the cool night air settled around us .
as we dried off , we shivered with goose bumps and the hair stood upright on our skin .
we glanced self consciously toward her house to see if anyone was watching while we tiptoed into the boathouse and stepped giggling onto the boat .
sometime earlier , anna had left a bottle of wine chilling in one of those 60s vintage leather ice buckets .
she stepped forward into the only stateroom on the boat to change .
i changed in the head .
we met in the galley and sat at the table where i watched as she opened the wine and poured two glasses .
it was getting dark outside and the dim lights on board reflected warmly off the wood and earth tones inside the cabin and seductively off annas golden tan .
her wet hair lay close to her head .
she had combed it straight back and parted it down the center .
neat rows were left behind on either side by the teeth of her comb her curls temporarily washed and brushed away .
a toast , said anna as she held her glass before me .
i held out my glass and replied , a toast .
to everlasting friendship .
to everlasting friendship , i repeated .
i smiled , and we delicately touched our glasses and poured the sweet wine into our mouths .
anna lifted her glass to offer another toast .
to lazy summer afternoons spent making memories .
to lazy summer memories , i think .
we each sipped our wine again .
today reminds me of the day we went to digby island , said anna .
not the day you rescued me .
yes , anna replied with a smile of superiority .
i remembered that day well .
anna and i were both about fifteen .
not old enough to drive , one way we could escape boredom and the seeming oppression of our parents was to take her fathers boston whaler and explore the many creeks and shorelines along the eastern border of our county .
digby island was a small and uninhabited island with an inconsistent shoreline .
the bay side , which was under the constant influence of wave action , was sandy but the other side , separated from the mainland by wide shallows , was muddy .
the day that anna and i walked around digby island , i ventured into the mud on the mainland side and was sucked down almost to my waist .
anna dragged the weather worn remains of a small dead tree to within about fifteen feet of where i was stuck , lifted the tree straight up , and let it drop in front of me .
i held on to one end of the tree and twisted and turned myself , while she pulled on the other end .
after a few desperate minutes anna and i were able to pull me to firmer ground .
yes , the day i rescued you .
i dont see any similarities .
anna smiled and said , no , i wont say it .
say what ?
i asked .
its too stupid .
what ?
i asked again .
get your head out of the mud and maybe you could see .
anna the jokester .
youre right , its stupid .
shut up , you , she said as she threw a balled up cocktail napkin at my face .
after anna rescued me from the mud that day , i chased her around to the other side of the island , pretending i was a mutant creature .
on the bay side of digby island she swam as i washed the caked mud from my body in the cool water .
swimming in the bay at that time of the year was sometimes hazardous , as the water was often thick with jellyfish .
we were fortunate that day because few days earlier a tropical depression had diluted the bay with fresh water .
nettles , as we called them , cant survive in brackish water , so they had moved saltier water farther out , into the bay .
we had great fun splashing around in the surf .
acknowledging the accuracy of annas memory , i said , that was a good day , and this is a good day .
thank you .
youre welcome , i said as i emptied the wine from my glass .
in a hurry ?
sorry , i responded .
sometimes i forget what im drinking .
i poured myself another glass .
so tell me more about this girl you dated last summer .
jealous ?
i raised my eyebrows .
i might be .
you shouldnt be .
she was nice , but not really my type .
why not ?
oh , i dont know .
i seem to be clueless when it comes to women .
they always seem to get too serious .
do we seem to be too serious ?
no , but i credit you for that , not myself .
why me ?
you seem to know how to keep it how do i say this ?
friendly is not the right word .
oh , i dont know .
i paused and then added , but youve never asked more of me than i can give .
so it must be you , anna .
what are you ready to give now ?
what do you mean ?
i asked .
you know what i mean .
i believed that anna was asking me if i was ready for a more serious relationship .
although i felt that i was , i was not ready to talk about it .
i responded with the first excuse that came to mind .
shoot , i said , i dont even have a job .
thats not so important .
youre intelligent , youve got a college degree , youll work your way into a satisfying job .
anna raised her eyebrows as though she had just stumbled upon some pleasant discovery .
hey , ive got an idea , she said .
what ?
why dont you come with me ?
come with you ?
to south america .
south america ?
youre nuts .
no im not .
oh , i dont know about going away like that .
thats a a big change of plans .
what plans ?
she asked knowing that i really had none .
youll be gone for a year .
so ?
i dont know , i mean , i guess i could .
i thought quietly for a moment and took another sip of wine .
it could be a lot of fun .
i think it would be great .
are you sure ?
you might get tired of seeing me every day .
besides , id be a liability anna reached across the table and placed her hand on mine and said , you wont be a liability and no , i wont get tired of seeing you .
id love for you to come .
its about time we stretch you beyond those provincial tendencies of yours .
provincial ?
are you saying that im narrow minded ?
not exactly .
you have an open mind , just limited experience .
thats all .
youre so kind , i said .
i flashed a smile .
bear with me , ian .
im listening .
you know how you used to criticize your buddies in high school about thinking and acting as though the county line was the end of the world ?
yeah .
well , where does your world end ?
i dont know .
ive traveled some .
traveling by itself doesnt necessarily bring about changes in ones perspective .
what are you trying to say ?
i asked .
anna was sitting sideways with her legs pulled up and feet resting on the galley bench .
she was staring across the room .
how about sam ?
she said .
you spent a lot of time together in high school right ?
yeah .
did you ever go into sams house ?
she asked .
no .
i dont think he wanted me to and , how do you know that anyway ?
i just do , she answered .
why do you think he never asked you in ?
well , it wasnt a very nice house , but that didnt bother me .
maybe not , but do you think it bothered him ?
well , yes .
okay .
anna paused .
how about his dad ?
his dad ?
yes , his dad .
you mean that that he was an alcoholic ?
yes .
whats your point , anna ?
my point is that people can live in different worlds even when they live in the same community .
many people would have said that you and sam were friends .
you lived in the same community and spent a lot of time together , but you were from different worlds .
to others casually observing you from day to day , you looked like friends the differences in your worlds werent so obvious .
i didnt exclude sam from my world .
he excluded me from his .
did you ever ask yourself why ?
he was embarrassed , maybe jealous i dont know .
was sam ever happy ?
sure , i saw sam laughing and having fun plenty of times .
was it happiness , or pleasure ?
both .
he experienced pleasure , but there were times , many times , when he was happy .
could you have been happy if you lived in the same environment sam lived in in a run down house and with an alcoholic father ?
i dont know .
whats your point , anna ?
im not making myself very clear am i ?
no .
okay , okay , she said .
she sat for a moment before she continued .
lets try something different .
what do you think of when i say the human condition ?
a boring philosophy teacher , i told her .
seriously .
suffering ?
is it all suffering ?
no , but im suffering right now .
cute , replied anna .
so if its not all suffering then what else characterizes the human condition ?
i dont know .
do you think all people experience pleasure and happiness ?
many do , but not all .
who doesnt ?
some of those folks in south america .
they suffer from poverty and who knows what else .
there cant be much happiness in their lives .
annas eyes widened and she smiled .
thats where youre mistaken .
they know happiness .
what one discovers among people that are so clearly different , different in the way they look , speak , in their customs and values , the laws that they live by and living conditions is that these people really arent that different from us .
they experience sorrow when someone is hurt or dies , and they experience pleasure and happiness .
in third world countries pleasure and happiness can be hard to come by , but its not as rare as one might think .
providing people have food , shelter and other people around who care about them they experience pleasure and happiness .
even when disease or tyrannical leaders threaten their lives , they experience pleasure and happiness .
pleasure and happiness are relative for one who is poor it doesnt take much to bring a smile and smiles often come without it costing anyone anything .
anna picked up her glass and took a sip of wine .
i sat quietly considering what she had just said .
i thought i was beginning to understand her point .
she set down her glass and said , ian , you said you couldnt have been happy if you lived in sams world , but how do you really know ?
maybe youre right , i said .
its not so easy to believe that people who live in a hot and humid , impoverished environment can really be as happy , but you would know better than i. id like you to know , too .
id like you to come see for yourself .
like i said , its time to stretch you a bit .
time to learn from living in another world , one thats out of your comfort zone .
ill think about it .
great , replied anna .
thats all i ask , but dont take too long .
well have to formally add your name to the list in the next few days .
we sat silently for a moment and it soon became apparent that anna was ready to change the subject .
i looked into the wine glass as i twirled it in my fingers , watching the wine climb the sides of the glass in a thin film of liquid that would trickle back down when i held the glass still .
i didnt know what to say , so i looked up at anna and smiled , hoping she would help me with the conversation .
she smiled but left me sitting self consciously searching for the right words .
my first thought was to say that i was lucky to know her .
i knew these thoughts to be true , but i was afraid that my intent would be misconstrued .
i was concerned that if i did not express my thoughts carefully she would think that i was insincere .
finally i told myself to just say it after all , this was anna .
anna , im a lucky guy .
what makes you say that ?
im lucky to have a friend like you .
anna smiled .
she stretched out her legs beneath the table and rested her warm feet against the insides of my thighs .
the next morning i was at home still trying to make sense of the conversation id had with anna as well as trying to think of the best way to talk to my parents about spending a year in south america .
i was still living with my parents while i was looking for a job .
i knew they would not object to me going to south america , but they would no doubt have many questions especially about money .
in four years of college , i had accumulated over twenty five thousand dollars in debt and the first payment was due in a few months .
i was reading the loan contract to see if i might be eligible for a deferment .
the phone rang , but i did not answer it my mother was downstairs and i knew she would answer .
a few moments later she came to my room with her hand over the receiver .
i hoped it was anna i was ready to tell her that i wanted to go to south america .
the caller was the personnel manager from the inn where i had worked during the summers while i was in college .
he was calling in response to a job application i had dropped off two days earlier .
we talked for few minutes before he asked if i would come in for an interview .
i interviewed the next day , he offered me the job , and i accepted .
i talked with anna soon after and again the morning she left for south america .
she said she understood my decision , but i could tell that she was disappointed .
xvii 8 30 pm my trip to the union camp was nearly cut short by my own concern that i was dressed in a confederate uniform .
i felt awkward enough walking around in the strange world of reenactors , but walking into a camp where i would have so clearly been out of place was more than i cared to endure .
i stood outside the union camp watching men sitting around a large campfire , apparently enjoying the same kind of camaraderie that others were enjoying in the opposing camp .
i felt empty standing there alone in the dark , as though the union cause was too far removed from this old virginia battlefield to have any relevance to the preponderance of southern reenactors gathered here .
whats up , hardcore afraid somebody might shoot you ?
i turned and saw reg and darin walking toward me .
i smiled .
it doesnt matter .
the ones that would get bent out of shape wont talk to you anyway , not when youre dressed like that .
reg tapped me on the shoulder , motioned with his head and said , come with us .
i followed reg and darin into the union camp .
they led me to a spot where a group of five other men were already seated around a fire .
reg , darin , said one of the men .
whos your friend ?
this is hardcore , aka ian .
whats up hardcore ?
asked the same man .
not much , i said .
reg introduced the men sitting around the fire starting with the man who spoke when we walked up , thats gilbert , to his left is art , and thats brian where the heck you been , brian ?
couldnt get back here any sooner , man .
old lady again ?
you know it .
reg pointed to the other two men in the group , and lets not forget the honorable doctors , james wells and isaac noble .
isaac tossed a stick in the fire and narrowed his eyes slightly as he looked at me .
nice to meet you , he said .
james smiled and nodded .
brian was the only man , other than reg and darin , dressed in a union uniform .
the others wore civilian attire i couldnt tell if it was authentic or not .
we sat down and stretched out our legs and placed our feet only inches from the fire .
brian , art and gilbert appeared to be younger than i. james was about the same age and isaac was much older .
isaac sat straight with his shoulders pulled back the hair on the sides of his head was white and his hairline had receded well beyond his forehead , almost friar like .
his skin was smooth , except for the wrinkles around his eyes .
i was still studying the details of his face when one of the other men said , thats a wicked beard , man .
so ive been told , i said distractedly .
darin and i found ian listening to dexter talk about daddy roe .
you poor man , said brian .
come on now dont get down on dex , replied reg .
brian nodded .
yes , reg , dex is all right .
then he gently poked gilbert in the arm and asked .
you got any more of that jerky ?
yeah , you want some ?
thats good stuff .
how about you , hardcore ?
asked gilbert .
brian says you cant be a real hardcore unless you eat some jerky .
just had some .
i answered .
what was it about jerky ?
gilbert tossed me a piece .
now youre authentic , he said .
reg continued telling the others about me .
as i was about to say , this is ians first reenactment , and tonight hes making the rounds .
isaac looked at me and said , why on earth would you want to get involved in reenacting ?
to be completely honest , my brother and i are hiking the appalachian trail .
we were up on the ridge this morning when we heard the cannons .
i guess i couldnt resist coming down to find out what all the fuss was about .
i didnt know that , said reg .
sorry about that , i replied .
it didnt seem so important .
it tells us why youre here , said isaac .
i guess it does , i replied .
so whered you get that uniform ?
asked brian .
well , as improbable as it seems , this battlefield is owned by someone i know .
foxharte ?
asked brian .
yes , you know him ?
no , he said , i know of him .
brian asked in a tone that defied seriousness , you out here spying for foxharte ?
no , i said and i looked into the eyes of each of the men sitting around the campfire i wanted to make sure i had their attention .
then i smiled and said , im spying for his daughter .
oh yes , ive seen her , said brian .
fine .
very fine , i added .
tough luck for you , brian , said reg .
sounds like shes into hardcores .
no competition here , brian mused .
as long as he does it right spying that is .
everyone laughed before isaac spoke up .
so tell us ian , what have you learned today ?
its not what i might have expected .
might have expected ?
prior to coming here i hadnt really thought much about reenactments , but if i had , i think i would have expected it to be different .
hows that ?
for one thing , i would never have guessed id be sitting around a campfire talking with a group of men , most of whom are black .
issac cut in , does seem strange , doesnt it ?
men like us sitting around this campfire .
he looked at me as if he was waiting for an answer .
i couldnt think of anything to say , so i shrugged my shoulders and he continued , we have our reasons for being here .
take my colleague here , dr. wells , hes a historian .
he specializes in living history .
hes here to assess reenacting as living history .
as for me , i arranged this little outing through my nephew .
isaac motioned toward reg .
im a sociologist , and though i find the idea of reenacting odd , i thought it would be interesting to talk to some reenactors .
nothing major , just a glimpse of what it means to them .
pilot work .
isaac lifted his hand and pointed to the remaining men as he said their names , gilbert is dr. wells graduate student and arts with me .
it doesnt matter if they want to be here , we didnt give them a choice .
as for brian , well brian , why are you here ?
darins old lady sent me here to keep an eye on him .
leave my old lady out of this .
shes home , im here and thats fine with me .
that settles it , isaac deadpanned , brians here to keep an eye on darin .
the idea of living history intrigued me , so i looked at james and asked , living history ?
james spoke for the first time .
living history involves immersing people into a particular environment that approximates history .
perhaps youve seen the pbs special , frontier house .
you mean like the one where the couples and , i think , even a family lived like western pioneers ?
i asked .
yes , james answered .
so this qualifies as living history ?
it depends on ones definition of living history .
in my opinion , its a poor approximation of history , replied james .
there are essential elements missing .
however , if you consider this as recreational living history and not a serious academic endeavor then it doesnt matter much .
i see , i said , hoping to hear more .
but before i could ask james what was missing , the others began to ask me questions .
for several minutes they drilled me , asking questions ranging from where i was from and where i went to school to what i did for a living .
like other people , they seemed to be most interested in asking me questions about hiking the appalachian trail .
none of them seemed to grasp the concept of why someone would want to intentionally endure the rigors of a more than two thousand mile hike .
in my estimation , they were being more honest with themselves than the many people who often respond with remarks like i want to do that someday , when they first learn that you are hiking , or have hiked , the appalachian trial .
when the pauses between the answers and the questions became prolonged , reg said , so hardcore , you still wondering what were doing here ?
well , i started , not so much why some of you are here , but it still seems strange that black men would participate in a civil war reenactment .
do you imply that some of us are here for reasons other than what we have stated ?
asked isaac .
isaacs defensive tone made me a bit uneasy , but i answered him honestly .
oh no , i have no reason to doubt what you have told me but if i hadnt met reg and darin , im sure that when i left here and looked back on all this , i might have seen reenacting as an attempt to keep alive some kind of , of outdated , or narrow minded ideal .
and you would have been right , said isaac .
thats exactly what it is for some people .
but , i explained , i havent seen any of that here , at least not in any obvious way .
reg pointed toward the confederate camp and spoke out , like i said before , its over there inside that circle of tents .
im sure you realize that this outdated , narrow minded ideal , as you call it , continues to exist , said isaac .
in fact , it is far more widespread than many people want to admit .
i dont have to tell anyone here that all kinds of people will hold on tight isaac made a fist to a cause , if i may borrow the expression .
its the same for whites , blacks , jews , muslims , the good ole boys , the rich , the privileged , those that want to be privileged , the kid that gets the last swing on the swing set and the kid that wants it , you name it .
its an old problem , as old as mankind , im sure .
its in our genes we have to protect our own best interest its key to our survival .
isaac sighed and rolled his eyes .
but i digress , he said .
so back to my point .
your perceptions are accurate .
we are concerned about that so called ideal .
thats precisely why some of us are here .
after making our observations , we may even want to provide some commentary about what all this represents then again we may not .
no matter what we decide to do , we know enough to know that we cant change things overnight and we do try to address our concerns in a positive way .
isaac pointed to reg and darin .
when it comes to reenacting , they do it by studying their heritage their ancestors that were involved in the civil war .
then they come here steeped in that heritage and to share it with others .
maybe they even hope their efforts will somehow add to a mutual respect between black and white reenactors .
a few black reenactors have gone as far as suggesting that these battlefields might be a place where old wounds can heal .
isaac raised an eyebrow and said , i dont agree with that assessment , but i appreciate the attitude .
isaac pointed to james .
we come here to study others thinking that maybe someday we can make more sense of what it is about events like these that attracts people and bonds them together .
isaac paused and held everyones attention by taking a deep breath .
then he added , and one more thing , the past has taught me that if dont work hard to counter oppressive forces , i will be oppressed .
so part of the job that needs to be done here , he said as he looked at reg , is to keep the record straight .
isaac stopped talking and stirred the fire .
still curious about jamess comment suggesting that civil war reenactments lacked some essential elements , i spoke up , what you said about keeping the record straight makes me wonder about this idea of authenticity .
i get the impression that the so called hardcores are pretty authentic , but , i asked , is this authentic ?
you mean the reenactment ?
queried james .
i got the impression that he was the kind of man that wanted to be certain that he clearly understood a question before he gave an answer .
yes , i replied .
no , said james , as i said before , there too many important elements missing .
like what ?
you hardly ever see african americans participating in the activities on the confederate side .
of course , its not hard to understand why they dont , but the lack of an african american presence undermines the claim of authenticity .
also , reenactments generally take place over a weekend .
life is much different when you have to endure conditions like these for weeks and months .
its like me hiking and camping for a few days and nights and then saying i understand what its like to the hike the appalachian trail .
would you agree ?
i nodded and was flattered by the suggestion that thru hiking the appalachian trail qualified as an authentic experience .
as a final thought , james added , most importantly , there is no specter of death that haunts war reenactments .
a man who , day after day , is faced with the reality of death lives in a very different world than one for whom death is something far more abstract .
gilbert , who had been sitting and rubbing his chin , interrupted .
you know , dr. wells , thats an interesting point .
what point ?
asked reg .
you want to someone to die ?
no , no .
but maybe weve got the wrong idea about all of this .
all of what ?
keeping the record straight , said gilbert .
all i see is black men that come out here and participate as union reenactors .
we all know that during the war many blacks were forced into service on the confederate side .
but what do you see when you look over there ?
all you see is a bunch of white guys .
no blacks cooking , mending uniforms , shoeing horses or cleaning muskets .
none of that .
art spoke out .
what are you talking about gilbert ?
youre crazy .
i dont know one black man , or woman , who would do that .
there are a few , said reg .
like that dude marching around on memorial avenue carrying a confederate flag and talking about sovereignty , said brian .
what dude ?
asked reg .
he was there when they unveiled the statue of lincoln and his boy , answered brian .
i saw it on the news .
somebody must have paid him .
made a fool out of him he looked like a minstrel .
anyway , i dont know him , i dont know anyone like him and i dont want to .
think about it , gilbert said as he tried to recapture everyones attention .
what would the neo confederates do if african americans asked to participate as cooks and servants and blacksmiths ?
what if we played the part to perfection in the name of authenticity ?
holding our hats in both hands and looking down all the time , saying yassir and no massa , not me , massa , gilbert , sir , he well he paused .
now what do you think those neo confederates would do if that happened ?
you mean white supremacists , said reg .
white supremacists , neo confederates , theyre all the same just different shades of gray , reacted gilbert .
but theyre not , at least not all of them .
some neo confederates would be incensed by your suggestion that they are also white supremacists .
awe , come on , reg .
tell us what you really think .
youre talking to a brother here , not a group of white guys dressed in gray uniforms .
look gilbert , what youre saying is often true .
im not one that is big on neo confederacy , but i recognize that there are some who would stand up against racism and simultaneously argue that the civil war was about defending the right of self government , not slavery .
gilbert tried to interrupt , but reg held up his hand and continued .
someone like that might be considered a neo confederate .
a white supremacist on the other hand is , as the name implies , a racist .
impatiently , gilbert said , there cant be many that are one thing but not the other .
isaac interjected , and to think that some believe old wounds can be healed at civil war reenactments .
the men fell silent .
the only sounds were the crackle and hiss of the fire .
i looked down and recalled the story ben told me about his distant uncle , jedediah powell .
jedediahs actions , first freeing the slaves he inherited and later dying as a confederate soldier in the civil war , were consistent with the kind of neo confederates that reg seemed to be defending .
i was thinking that maybe reg was right maybe some neo confederates were not racists .
i was lost in these thoughts when i heard someone in the group quietly singing coming forth to carry me home .
when i looked up , i realized that id been humming the same tune .
brian smiled at me and said , i love that song .
my grandmother used to sing it all the time .
he turned away and grabbed a single piece of wood that was lying on the ground behind him .
he placed it on the fire and stirred the embers .
the flames enveloped the fresh firewood .
art , who was apparently still considering gilberts comments about the absence of authenticity at reenactments , laughed quietly and then spoke out .
in the name of authenticity .
i like it , gilbert .
i like the irony .
i can see the headline , added reg , neo confederates give up reenacting complain of too much authenticity .
as we laughed , isaac looked at me and smiled .
so have we offended you yet , ian ?
asked reg .
i dont know much about neo confederates , i answered , and i know more than id like about white supremacy .
white supremacist , mused art .
you know , i dont get it .
whites have been in charge of things for a long time .
now you tell me , if theyre so damned supreme , then why is this country in such bad shape ?
here we live in the richest nation on the planet and still thirty percent of black children are born to single mothers that are poor , uneducated and often addicted to drugs .
born into abject poverty what kind of chance do they have ?
art pointed toward the confederate camp .
think of all the talent over there .
some of them well educated men with advanced degrees , degrees in law and political science , and yet they come out here to celebrate the lives of dead men when they could be working to improve the lives of the living .
reg and darin glanced at each other , but neither one spoke .
part of me wishes that id never come here .
art paused before he concluded , like i said , if whites are so damned supreme then why is this world in such bad shape ?
good question , said gilbert .
lets face it .
ians right to wonder why we are here .
there are many things that bother me about the enduring enthusiasm for the civil war .
take the slogan , heritage , not hate .
when i hear that all i can think about is that someone doesnt have to hate african americans to think they are better than african americans .
you mean to be a white supremacist , added art .
what ?
gilbert asked .
someone doesnt have to hate african americans to be a white supremacist , art answered .
yes , exactly , replied gilbert .
and , when i see that flag hanging on a pole in someones yard or a sticker in the window of a pick up truck , im not sure what im looking at .
i mean , how am i to know what the person that put it there is saying .
you can bet that at least some people put them there because they hate me , and for nothing more than the color of my skin .
oh , theyd argue that this is a free country , continued gilbert .
and theyre right and thank god they are but , whether you think freedom is an inalienable right or just a benefit of living in a democratic society , those who understand freedom best , use it most responsibly .
i cant see how many people in this country can appreciate freedom , and the responsibility that comes with it , more than african americans .
if some redneck puts a confederate flag sticker in his truck window without thinking about how it makes others feel thats insensitive .
if he puts it there to anger someone , or worse threaten them thats an abuse of freedom .
but how is one to know why people do these things .
man , gilbert shook his head , i cant stand to think how the ones that do hate us seem to thrive on the uncertainty .
look , gilbert , said reg , dont get the wrong idea .
youre right its no secret that there are a lot of hard feelings still floating around between the races .
and , youre right to think that some people dont care while others seem to enjoy making things worse .
but any hard feelings ive come by while reenacting are nothing compared to the hard feelings ive come by elsewhere .
i have to admit that i dont interact much with reenactors outside the union camp , but my friends are , well theyre my friends .
its good to hear you say that , said isaac .
in my generation , one was might have white friends despite being black but in your generation , color seems to be much less important .
amen .
brian turned to me and said , ian , is this why people hike the appalachian trail ?
what do you mean ?
you know , to get away from all the bullshit , he replied .
i nodded and said , some of them , yes .
it seems these men are sorting out some issues , said isaac .
now , do you have any more questions ?
he asked .
i assumed that he was implying that it was my questions that prompted the spirited dialogue .
i thought for a second and realized that there was another question that i would like to ask .
lincoln , i said .
the men looked at each other and suddenly erupted into a mixture of expletives and laughter .
whatd i say ?
lincoln , said reg as he spat involuntarily and wiped his arm on his sleeve .
his shoulders shook and he waved his hands , gesturing for me to be patient while he regained his composure .
whats so funny about lincoln ?
its just , its just reg cleared his throat .
last night , we he took a deep breath we had this great debate about lincoln .
we almost had a fight .
we dont all agree .
reg cleared his throat again .
actually , it wasnt that bad , but it was rather heated .
what did you decide ?
we didnt , but ill give you the extremes .
on the one hand , one of us thinks mr. lincoln was a racist on the other hand one of us thinks that he was another moses the rest believe the truth is somewhere in between .
so ?
i said making it clear that i wanted to hear more .
lincoln didnt want to free anyone you cant compare him to moses , said art .
man , you refuse to put this thing in its proper context , gilbert responded .
yes , i know , originally he was only interested in stopping the spread of slavery and he considered starting a new country for former slaves after emancipation god knows we heard that enough last night .
sure , he thought negroes were inferior to whites but in his day there were very , very few whites that didnt think the same way .
by todays standards he was racist .
but when you put it in the context of his own time , the man well , lets just say he evolved .
did you know that while he was president he used to sit at the foot of his bed for hours with his long ass legs pulled up under his chin ?
now what do you suppose he was thinking about hosing some pretty presidential aide ?
we all know he only had one thing on his mind the war .
his actions , like emancipation , and his words , like his second inaugural , especially when compared to his first , tell us that there was a lot of good working in that man .
have you even read his second inaugural ?
no one was surprised when gilbert began quoting lincolns words , if god wills that it continueuntil every drop of blood drawn with the lash , shall be paid by another drawn with the sword , as it was said three thousand years ago , so still it must be said the judgements of the lord , are true and righteous altogether .
now tell me art , who do you think that man was working for ?
ah a white supremacist maybe .
they like to quote scripture .
hell , art , moses was ill tempered , he was a murderer , and god had to set a bush on fire without letting the flames consume it before he saw the light .
and yet , regardless of all his flaws and reluctance , he did a rather admirable job of freeing the hebrews from bondage .
if you believe that moses was doing gods work , then why cant you believe that lincoln was doing the same ?
look , art , im so convinced that im right that ill make you a bet .
what kind of bet ?
five thousand years from now moses and lincoln will both be portrayed as great deliverers in some kind of new bible .
go on man , youre crazy !
one day , art , said isaac , youll learn not to argue history with a historian .
reg leaned over to me and whispered , had to ask about lincoln , didnt you ?
sometime later , when the intensity of the conversation waned , isaac looked at his watch and said , my good men , its time for this aging warrior to go to bed .
i have a long day before me tomorrow .
he stood up .
ian , he said , its been a pleasure .
i stood to shake his hand and said , dr. noble , i wish we had more time to talk .
oh , its pretty simple for me , he said .
i used to get fired up like these young men .
i did my share of marching and protesting .
somewhere along the way i learned that its not so much about blacks and whites .
its more about people having enough individual freedom and control over their own lives to live according to their own desires all within reason of course .
as a black man , i feel like ive been on the short end of the stick for much of my life .
i have to acknowledge that life for some blacks has gotten better , but theres still much work to be done .
my hope is that one day a black man can talk about important issues and no one will notice the color of his skin .
i nodded and was about to speak , but isaac continued .
oh yes , he said .
sometimes what i hear while sitting around this campfire makes me think were not so different .
we ?
i asked .
white reenactors and my people .
seriously ?
i said .
yes , said isaac .
think about it .
what some of the most devoted reenactors value is their own family history their heritage .
hows that any different than an african american who spends endless hours tracking down bits and pieces of information about his or her ancestors ?
somehow it seems unfair to the reenactor whos primarily interested in heritage when he is accused of being a white supremacists .
brian , no , it was gilbert who said it best there are different shades of gray .
i looked at reg .
he flashed a smile and winked .
then i looked back at isaac .
nice to me you , i said .
thanks , he replied .
make sure you dont get eaten by a bear , or bit by a snake or something .
isaac feigned a shudder then he smiled and gave a little wave to everyone seated around the fire .
xviii reflection in some ways i was a slow starter .
a fact that caused me much frustration and embarrassment as a teenager , but i eventually came to terms with the pattern of my adolescence .
thankfully anna was there , patiently waiting for me to catch up .
when i think about the times when she was not around , i dont feel as though i missed much .
in fact , i find it easy to believe that i had some sort of guardian angel looking out for me .
those pimple faced days were often confusing .
not that i see it this way , but lets assume that to some adolescents a real date occurs when two people who would consider having sex with each other spend a significant amount of unsupervised time together i recall that a date somehow seemed even more official if a car was involved .
according to that definition , my first date was with a girl i hardly knew .
in fact , the only time i ever spoke to her before we went out was to ask her out .
we went to a movie with another couple .
i remember two things about that night .
the first is that i sat silently in the back seat two feet away from my date while my buddy , who was driving and looking at me through the rearview mirror , kept suggesting with his eyes that i get closer to her .
the only other thing i remember is how my date introduced me to french kissing when i walked her to the door to tell her good night .
i enjoyed the kiss for a moment , but then something max had once said began haunting me ian , if you french kiss a girl for too long an immune response will cause your tongue to swell , and if it gets too bad youll choke to death .
that night when i got home i brushed my teeth three times , gargled twice and took a double dose of allergy medication .
i also prayed that id wake up in the morning .
the only good the allergy medication did was put me to sleep and give me a hang over in the morning .
the unfortunate thing about that first date was that i think i liked the girl , but i was not brave enough to ask her out again .
progress was slow , painfully slow at times .
when youre sixteen and someone you think of as a friend says , she told me you wouldnt do it , it hurts .
somehow i survived .
i hope she did .
im glad i listened to whatever force , or perhaps counter force , of nature was telling me not to do it .
then there was anna .
when we were in middle school we went to dances together and had great fun .
there was no pressure to be anything more than friends .
we were in the eighth grade before i first dreamed of kissing her .
soon after school started that year a friend invited me to a party .
my mother drove me there .
i didnt know that anna was going to be there , so i was pleased when i arrived and saw her standing outside with our friends .
anna , youre here .
she spread her arms out and said with a big smile , im here .
so what are we going to do ?
play records and dance .
dance ?
i said , making it clear that i was not interested .
dancing is fun .
not for me .
are we playing any games ?
i asked anxiously .
you mean like truth or dare ?
yeah .
i hope so , said anna .
i hope not .
i was always terrified that someone might chose dare and the dare would be to kiss me .
when we played the game , i always chose truth .
anna and i stepped up onto the porch and sat down together in a swing .
ian , she said , have you ever kissed anyone ?
no , i said emphatically .
its nothing to be afraid of .
oh , i know , i said , as i regained my composure and tried to act nonchalant .
its really kind of nice .
it is ?
if i had not been so worried about where our conversation was leading i might have felt a rush of jealousy and i tried to figure out who anna had kissed .
yes , it is , she said .
we both sat quietly .
each time the swing came forward i touched my foot to the porch and lightly pushed backwards .
although the sun had not set , the porch was darkened by the shade of the many tall trees in the yard .
i assumed that all of the guests had arrived because everyone , except anna and i had gone into the house .
anna turned sideways on the swing and looked at me .
would you like to try ?
she asked .
i knew what anna was asking me .
i didnt know what to say .
my heart was pounding , i felt dizzy and i wanted to run .
the best i could do was delay the inevitable .
try what ?
dont be afraid , ian .
im not afraid , i said defensively .
anna placed her hand on my arm and leaned forward .
she looked into my eyes and said , ian , youre very special to me .
dont you ever forget that and dont let me forget it either .
promise ?
i promise , i said and i closed my eyes .
xix 9 35 pm i tried to stay away from the virginia 1202nd as i approached the confederate camp .
i didnt want to hear any fun loving jeers as i made my way into the inner sanctum .
i was nervous enough .
i didnt need any help from the men of the 1202nd .
reenactors surrounded a large fire burning inside the circle of tents .
their shadows flickered eerily on the yellow canvas , which danced in a breeze that was swirling about the camp .
i was relieved to see men standing , as well as sitting i would be fairly inconspicuous when i walked up .
i heard someone play a chord on a banjo .
everyone sitting and standing around the fire was watching a man tune his stringed instrument .
he played a couple more chords and twisted one of the pegs .
i did not want to stand around and listen to a bunch of out of tune men sing dixie and other southern favorites , but i also realized that under these circumstances i might go unnoticed as an outsider so i decided to stay .
the banjo player twisted the pegs again and i heard him exclaim , oh crap .
whats wrong ?
someone asked .
broke a string .
ive got more in my tent .
the banjo player stood up and said , ill be right back , before he hurried away .
i started to count the men , but gave up because too many of them were moving around from place to place within the camp .
there were at least thirty .
most were dressed in gray uniforms , like the one i was wearing .
a few , however , were dressed in tan pants and white shirts they looked like planters .
others were wearing various combinations of gray , soldiers uniforms and planters clothing .
many had on caps or hats .
some of the men fit the hardcore profile with their raw , bony faces and ragged beards others fit the more typical profile of the overweight middle aged american male .
their faces were intense as they talked with each other while they waited for the banjo player to return .
i was slowly walking around the campfire when someone suddenly shouted , when and where was the first shot fired during the war between the states ?
thats easy , i thought , from the battery of charleston soon after lincoln took office april something .
january 9th , 1861 when four cadets from the citadel fired at the yankee steamer the star of the west .
thats right , replied the man who had asked the question .
but that couldnt be right , i thought that was before lincoln took office .
then another question , name three major reasons for the war of southern independence .
a need to stop northern expansionism , generations of unresolved conflict between celtic immigrants in the south and english immigrants in the north , and total disregard among the yankees in power for the rights and sovereignty of the southern states .
good answer .
i considered the answer and realized that there was no direct mention of slavery and only an implied acknowledgement of the political struggle that surrounded slavery .
and , i thought , when has the civil war ever been referred to as the war of southern independence ?
these men were espousing a history with which i was not familiar .
reg had called them neo confederates i wondered if the hyphenated words neo historian applied as well .
while standing there , listening to the reenactors shout out strange interpretations of history , i noticed that two men had entered and left the large tent and that a third was now inside .
there were two other men standing outside .
one must have been a guard each time someone entered or left he saluted and closed the flap that served as a door .
the other man , who was engaged in conversation with the guard , looked familiar .
he was wearing a soldiers uniform without a cap and looked like the man who gave max and me a ride down from the mountain .
realizing that it could be zeb , i wondered how anna might react when i told her i had seen him inside the inner sanctum .
the formality of the scene and the presence of zeb stirred my curiosity about who might be inside the tent .
the questions and the same strange answers continued .
one reenactor shouted , did lincoln save the union ?
another answered back , no , the union is now an artifact of a previously dominant northern nation .
even today the south endures expansionist northern ideals .
did slavery cause the war ?
no , a hostile antislavery movement caused the war .
good answer , shouted a group of men .
good answer , i repeated in amazement .
i had to wonder if according to these men the proslavery movement was anti hostile .
every answer seemed correct enough to be defensible in fact , i imagined that these dedicated neo confederates spent innumerable hours sorting through vast archives to support their positions .
i was not surprised at these mens differing perspective instead , i was uneasy with the question of why .
why did they go to such lengths to justify their beliefs ?
what would a black man or woman listening to this peculiar interpretation of facts think especially if he or she was a descendent of slaves ?
i was also frightened by what i was hearing .
these men had the right to assemble and to interpret history any way they wanted .
and as long as they were not seriously challenged , i was certain they would continue to do so .
but what if someone challenged their interpretation of the facts ?
the concept of what was meant by the cause was sinking in .
so i stood there listening to a strange interaction between seemingly intelligent men hoping someone would unwittingly answer my questions .
i stood there until the banjo player returned and put a new string on his instrument .
he played a few chords and i decided to leave the inner sanctum.1 when i turned around i bumped into a reenactor who said , where you going hardcore ?
to relieve myself , i said , hoping to make a quick exit .
to the woods with you then , no porta privy .
i smiled at the mans remark and sighed in relief .
but then he looked at me curiously , as though he did not recognize me , and asked , what brings you here ?
i looked at him blankly and replied , excuse me ?
i havent seen you here before .
tell me , why are you here ?
i said the first thing that came to my mind .
im with the virginia 1202nd .
the reenactor laughed and squared off in front of me .
i assumed his laughter was intended as a comment about his view of the virginia 1202nd .
why are you here ?
i asked boldly .
you could say that im here to help clear up history , he said .
to clear up history ?
yeah , civil war history .
oh , i used to be like you and your friends over there in the virginia 1202nd but i wised up after while .
you guys dont take reenacting seriously enough .
the guys in here , they understand .
understand ?
yeah .
they know that once the liberals started writing history books and textbooks everyone started believing that the civil war was all about freeing slaves .
people get it in their heads that thats what it was about and they start feeling sorry for blacks .
next thing you know all the other liberals want to give blacks everything .
thanks to them the liberals , that is we get things like welfare and affirmative action quotas .
they think blacks and other minorities cant make it in the world without help from the government .
you know what they say the system was set up by white men , therefore it must favor white men .
now i ask you , what the hell kinda logic is that ?
next thing you know , the liberals are going to vote in favor of reparations .
thatd be a hoot paying people back wages cause their ancestors were slaves .
you know , there are attorneys out there specializing in reparations .
some have filed civil suits against companies that were in existence before the civil war .
claim they have evidence that those companies profited from slave trade .
lotta good its gon na do those slaves they might deserve reparations , but their great , great , great grandchildren dont .
now i aint got nothing against blacks , most of them , that is .
they got as much right as i do to a job and a decent home .
but i cant see them or any other minorities being given special privileges .
and those that holler about discrimination .
give them a chance and theyll turn the tables .
turn the tables ?
the man ignored my comment and continued , when you get down to it , what concerns me most is how the civil war has been interpreted .
it had nothing to do with slavery , it was about sovereignty hows that for irony .
the more people understand that it was about sovereignty , the more they can see how all the change thats come to the south didnt happen because it was the way southerners wanted it .
no , it was about yankees thinking their way of living was a better way like some kind of industrialized , authoritarian state .
answer me this , would you rather have a factory or a farm in your backyard ?
huh ?
would you rather have a farm or a factory in your backyard ?
ah , a farm i guess .
providing they limit the use of fertilizers and pesticides .
i said , half joking , half serious but the man kept on talking .
well , if the yankees had left things alone , there would be more farms and less factories .
life would move at a slower pace , thered be less pollution , less stress related disease and less greed .
i aint saying the yankees today are to blame , but i am saying that the people of the south deserve more respect .
for the real people of the south , the civil war was about sovereignty we were fighting for respect and the freedom to decide for ourselves how we should live .
i nodded and forced an expression of understanding .
so , do you think the war would have happened even if slavery had not existed ?
as long as the difference between the way people in the south and people in the north lived were so profound yes , it would have eventually happened .
might even happen again .
dont misunderstand me , but there are a lot of issues that people of the south feel differently about than people elsewhere .
like prayer in school , saying under god when we say the pledge of allegiance .
my way of thinking is that if the people of one state want to say under god why should the people of another state care .
look , he said as if he had grown weary of trying to explain himself , im just here trying to set the record straight thats all .
you and a lot of other people , i said .
i didnt mention that i had heard the same comment on the opposite side of the battlefield .
hey , i said , wanting to ask another question .
have you ever thought what it would be like if the south did rise again ?
would the states in the south hang confederate flags above the stars and stripes ?
would people be free to move about within the united states ?
would the united states still exist ?
i mean , i just cant imagine what kind of changes would take place .
ill tell you what would happen .
thered be a glorious revival of states rights .
states would demand that the federal government collect fewer taxes or return more tax revenues to them and not spend so much money on ill fated liberal causes .
just look at the proportion of minorities who hold federal government positions its way out of wack with the distribution of minorities in our population .
the federal government is the business of minorities , paid for by the tax dollars of the hard working middle class .
the only good thing about it is that its not welfare .
the talkative man paused , as if he was collecting his thoughts .
the states , he continued , would have more freedom to spend those monies at their discretion .
there would be a reduction in federal mandates .
and , while i dont think youd see old glory flying beneath the southern cross , youd see the confederate flags flying at the state capitols and governors mansions a symbol of state sovereignty .
thats what the people of the south want .
so the pendulum would start to swing back in the other direction ?
i asked .
in a way , yes .
you could say that .
and how far would it swing ?
oh , the states would be reasonable about it .
i see .
i wanted to ask more questions , but was distracted by the thought that i was moving along some kind of continuum .
before today , i was hardly aware that reenacting existed .
in only a few hours , however , i had visited with thomas , a spectator , whose association with reenacting was secondary to his sons involvement and sutlers who capitalized on the reenactors desire for information , authenticity and symbols important to their identities .
from there , i visited a variety of reenactors some appeared to be primarily interested in honoring their heritage while others , like the man standing in front of me , seemed driven to explain the way we live today is an undesirable byproduct of the outcome of the civil war .
as these thoughts spun around in my mind i decided to leave the inner sanctum .
i said to the man , look , thanks for your insights .
id like to talk more , but nature calls .
hardcore , he commanded .
theres one more thing .
until people understand what the civil war was really about we dont have a chance of getting things back to the way they should be .
think about that .
i will , i said loud enough for the man to hear .
there was one more place i planned to go .
i wanted to slip in behind the large tent and eavesdrop on the conversation inside , but between the sound of the banjo and all the reenactors singing i decided to wait until the noise subsided .
xx 9 50 pm i stood outside the circle of tents and waited for the music to stop , but the banjo player possessed a seemingly endless repertoire of songs like , when johnny comes marching home again , goober peas and the battle hymn of the republic .
i finally gave up and visited again with the virginia 1202nd .
during my second visit the reenactors spent more time talking about their motorcycles and the hand to hand combat stunts they used on the battlefield .
they even indulged each other with demonstrations of their favorite stunts , and it seemed that they learned most of their new ones from the antics of some professional wrestling association .
they were a fun loving bunch of guys , and i was delighted with their company , but it was late and i was growing tired .
when the group inside the tents began to sing dixie i assumed the music would soon stop .
i stood up and said goodbye to the men of the 1202nd and walked away as if i was leaving the camp for the night .
one of the men said , see you tomorrow hardcore .
his salutation was followed by an enthusiastic and drawn out cheer h a r d c o r e .
i turned and waved and then walked on .
when i got beyond the tents and the fence , into the moonlight cast shadows , i turned and walked stealthily toward the far end of the camp where the large tent was set up .
the guard was still posted outside , but zeb was gone .
several horses were tied up in an area behind the tent .
i hid in the darkness and moved slowly , trying to stay out of sight of the guard and hoping not to stir the horses .
as i approached the tent , the horses became restless and i stood still , patiently waiting for them to quiet down .
i soon realized that i could have more easily positioned myself behind the large tent while the music was playing , but it was too late for that .
after a few seconds the horses settled but they stirred again when i tried to approach .
frustrated , i walked backward a few yards , sat on a large stone , and began rethinking my strategy .
i was determined to listen to the conversation inside that tent .
minutes later , two reenactors walked up to the guard and began talking with them .
one of the men kneeled down and pulled out a pouch of tobacco and cigarette papers .
again , i tried to approach the back of the tent .
the horses stirred slightly , but the three men outside the tent seemed far too interested smoking and talking to each other to notice me or the restless horses , so i continued walking toward a small area between the makeshift corral and the camp .
when i finally arrived at the back of the tent i sat on the ground , less than three feet away listening to the conversation among the reenactors inside .
i was concerned that someone wandering past the back of the tent could have easily seen me .
but that was not likely , since the whole of the camp was on the other side and the base of the eastern mountain slope rose up just beyond where the horses stood behind me .
i sat there illuminated by the light within the tent , but i cast no discernable shadow and felt comfortable and ever more curious .
the figure of a man and other indistinct shadows pulsated rhythmically against the outstretched canvas .
beams of light passed through small holes in the tent most were near the bottom , no doubt from excessive wear .
but a few were higher , about five feet above the ground , almost tailor made for peeking inside .
the first words i heard , sergeant andersen , were drawn out in some muffled , southeastern dialect such that they sounded more like , saw gent an da sen .
the speaker continued in his drawling speech , i would like you to immediately disseminate the message written here to our regimental members that is , the ones sleeping in this camp tonight .
tell them that their answer is expected no later than one week from tomorrow .
the usual means of communication will do .
and be sure they understand that if they fail to answer , it will be assumed that they are not interested in renewing their membership .
yes sir .
that will be all .
yes sir , colonel .
thank you , sergeant .
yes sir .
the sergeant exited the tent and the colonel spoke to someone else .
junior , he said , im troubled .
what is it ?
we have a rather high number of soldiers from this regiment wearing a different color uniform this weekend .
youre right , leland its poor form .
without them , though , we wouldnt have enough union soldiers for much of a reenactment .
i suppose thats true , replied leland , but , their disloyalty is not easily forgotten .
perhaps its best if i dont even know who they are .
wouldnt want to be tempted to put a ball of lead in my pistol to settle some score .
most of them are pretty loyal , you know .
pretty loyal is not good enough .
the men were silent for a moment , and during their silence i became aware of the sound of the horses behind me chewing hay .
i could also hear the indistinct , distance voices of men talking quietly in the night .
on a different matter , leland said softly .
ive been meaning to compliment you for your efforts to revise our by laws a masterful piece of work .
thanks .
i particularly like this section .
movement of the shadow on the back of the tent suggested that leland had picked up a piece of paper .
i like the way it sounds , and i understand its meaning , but i believe we should have one of our attorneys to look at it .
leland began to read out loud , membership in the association for southern heritage is limited to descendents of officers and enlisted soldiers that officially served in the army of the confederate states of america during the war for southern independence , commonly known as the civil war .
official service is defined in accordance with the following historical documents .
he stopped reading and rambled as if thinking out loud .
the documents are listed here .
we know that each one clearly specifies who is included and he emphasized who is not .
leland continued , so as i understand it , by using this list of official documents as our criteria for membership will be more precisely what we want them to be .
no longer will we have to consider any , any undesirable applicants .
junior responded , thats right .
i wished id known what official documents were listed in the by laws leland was reading .
what was clear , however , was that the by laws of some heritage type organization were being revised in a way that would impose strict limitations on membership .
i presumed that the restrictions were intended to prevent those not sympathetic to the southern cause from joining the organization .
i was disheartened and thought that annas feelings about the community she lived in and reenactments might be justified .
but i wasnt ready to give up .
after all , it seemed apparent to me that a significant number of the reenactors id encountered were here for reasons that the anna foxhartes of the world would find tolerable .
leland continued talking .
now , tell me about the living history demonstrations .
last week we had ten fourth grade classes from different schools visit the early center .
two members of our regiment were there giving demonstrations and talking to the kids .
talking about what ?
asked leland .
they showed the kids how to clean muskets , passed around some food samples , and explained the significance of different flags .
they also talked about early and breckinridge and other officers , as well as the vmi cadets .
the kids response ?
oh , they ate it up , replied junior .
excellent , said leland , and what about the catechism ?
i delivered a couple of hundred copies last week some to charleston and some to charlotte .
i hope to distribute the others next week .
dont make any special trips .
oh , no , junior responded , i drop them off while making the rounds for work .
i did not clearly understand what the two men were talking about .
my only experience with catechisms was from the time i spent in church as a child .
they included a list of questions and answers intended to educate children and adults about christianity .
were these neo confederates attempting to educate people about the civil war by using catechisms ?
this approach was consistent with the boisterous question and answer session i had listened to inside the circle of tents .
the discussion between leland and junior made it sound as if the neo confederates might be using this method to educate children about the civil war .
i was disturbed by my deduction and hoped it was wrong .
and the flag program ?
asked leland .
after a slow start , business is picking up .
i sent out a memorandum to the members of sixteen regiments .
i explained that by flying the battle flag they would be making a public statement about their southern values .
i also gave the names of vendors who would give them a discount if they presented a membership number when making a purchase .
sales of flags and stickers and other items have increased almost ten percent since last year .
it warms my heart every time i see one of our flags flying in someones yard .
if this keeps up junior , every yankee and every the mens conversation was interrupted by an announcement from the guard standing outside the tent .
colonel .
yes , replied leland .
there is a handsome young soldier outside that would like to see you .
is he loyal to the cause , sergeant ?
i believe he is , sir very loyal , as a matter of fact .
leland interrupted , then by all means , let him in .
a moment later i heard , hi , daddy .
leland responded to his sons greeting with a warm hey buddy .
come sit here .
a second shadow danced on the back of the tent in the flickering light of a lantern .
whatcha doing , daddy ?
major squires and i are discussing a little business , replied leland .
major squires ?
i thought to myself .
was the other man in the tent owen squires son junior ?
i wanted to see , so i quietly stood up and stepped toward the back of the tent .
i positioned my head a couple of inches from a hole and moved from side to side .
the hole was large enough for me to see one person at a time .
at first i saw the back of a mans head he was holding a red sash in one hand and repeatedly pulling it through the other .
his sword was leaning against the table and his young son was sitting next to him .
in the corner of the tent , toward the front , i saw a man that i presumed was junior squires .
the frayed edges of cloth around the hole made it impossible to bring the mans face into focus .
while it was hard to see him , his presence in the tent fit with the uneasy comments made by owen earlier in the day .
i edged closer , hoping to get a better look .
i stood , precariously balanced , and felt that if i leaned forward any more i would surely fall .
i was shifting my eyes from one person to other , when the flames from the lantern on the table between leland and junior suddenly wafted .
like a forced exhalation , air rushed through the peephole and the canvas lightly touched my nose .
for a moment i feared that the impression of my face appearing on the inside of the tent might cause me to be discovered , but the conversation continued .
i bent my knees slightly and withdrew my head an inch or so .
pulsating with light and gently expanding and contracting like a giant lung , the tent was alive .
and , i sensed the irony of looking inside this particular tent the one that stood authoritatively among the circle of tents .
it was like looking into the very soul of a frightening part of humanity that i could not comprehend .
will i get to be the drummer boy tomorrow , daddy ?
leland answered his son , compassionately , you know youre too young to be a drummer boy .
awe daddy .
i promise ill do a good job .
now son , i told you that when you turn ten you can be a drummer boy .
but thats not till next year , complained the boy .
you can wait one more year .
awe daddy , he whined .
listen , why dont we talk about something else ?
tell major squires about that sporty new bicycle you got for you birthday ?
but i want to talk about being the drummer boy .
i know you do , son , leland sighed .
junior spoke up .
id like to hear about that bicycle .
the boy replied , its a mountain bike .
its got twenty one gears .
do you ride it in the mountains ?
mr. squires , you know there aint no mountains where we live .
and , daddy , he wont let me ride it in but one direction .
one direction ?
said junior , making it clear that he didnt understand .
he wont let me go in the other direction on a count of the blacks that live down the street .
he wont ?
junior replied , facetiously prompting the boy to elaborate on his remarks .
no , cause daddy says , we aint prejudiced , we just dont like ni the boys words suddenly became muffled .
not so loud , son , said his father .
he must have placed his hand over the boys mouth .
surprised by what the boy had just said , i barely avoided falling into the tent by bending my knees and taking a big step back .
as i put my foot down a stick cracked and the horses stirred .
i held my breath , afraid that i might be discovered but i heard hushed laughter from inside and knew that i was safe .
chip off the old block , said junior .
leland said to his son , now why dont you run along outside , and ill come after you in a minute .
no drummer boy , daddy ?
no , son .
if i break the rules for you then ive got to break them for everyone .
now run along .
see ya , sport , said junior as the boy ran outside .
i stood behind the tent and reflected on what the boy had just said .
the words sounded familiar , and i soon realized that what he had said , at least to the extent that he was allowed to speak , was identical to the comment made by owens neighbor when he was talking about the black family that was looking at property in his neighborhood .
if lelands son was about to say what i thought , then i had heard enough .
anna was justified in her dislike for reenactments , and max was right about the craftiness of those in charge at least at this reenactment .
if anna was with me she probably would have marched into the tent and demanded that leland and junior leave immediately but , i didnt know what to do .
under the circumstances i didnt think i could do anything that would make a difference .
i was taken by surprise and needed time to think .
i slowly walked away .
xxi 10 30 pm on my way back to owens rv , the words spoken by lelands son sounded in my ears again and again .
we aint prejudiced we aint prejudice as i climbed the steps i wondered if leland was owens former neighbor , the one who had expressed his dislike for blacks .
i also realized that the man talking to leland , major squires , had to be owens son junior .
it occurred to me that owen probably knew more about reenactments than he let on .
but what disturbed me most was what i had not heard the word that leland prevented his son from speaking .
i knocked on the door and heard max say , come in .
i opened the door and he said , johnny reb , how was your little adventure ?
i sat down in the chair .
max was sitting on the couch watching television .
whats wrong ?
asked max .
nothing , just tired .
i hope not too tired .
anna was here a little while ago .
she said shed come back .
thats nice , i said blankly .
wheres owen ?
gone to bed .
you sure theres nothing wrong ?
i didnt want to answer maxs question so i asked , how much more did he drink ?
none .
i looked across the room at a picture on the wall that i had only glanced at before .
it was a portrait of owen , his late wife and two grown children , a young woman and a young man .
i walked over and looked carefully at his son and saw that he resembled junior , the same man id seen inside the large tent talking to leland .
too agitated to be still , i walked over to the stack of papers sitting in the chair next to the dinette .
i began to rifle through them wondering what the other articles revealed about civil war reenactments .
among the titles were , is gettysburg selling our heritage , virginia senator tries to smooth ruffled confederate feathers and georgia senator calls governor racist .
as i dug through the papers , i was reminded that for some people the civil war was far more than a simple pass time indeed , for many it was an obsession .
i set down the stack of papers and began picking them up , one by one , counting the articles .
somewhere in the thirties i lifted a full page proclamation paid for by the association for southern heritage .
it was entitled confederate history and heritage month a proclamation .
the page was framed with rows of confederate battle flags across the top and bottom and partial columns of flags along the sides .
a larger , light gray battle flag was printed just above the center of the page the body of the proclamation was superimposed over the larger flag .
it began with a whereas statement indicating that april was the month in which the civil war began and ended .
similar statements followed .
one essentially blamed lincoln for the war others were a call to honor the civil war generation that lived in the same county and towns where the paper was printed .
the final resolved statement was difficult to comprehend .
it was an appeal to honor and respect the devotion of soldiers and civilians , both white and black , free and slave , to the cause of southern independence .
had i read it twenty four hours before that is , if id bothered to read it at all , i would not have had a second thought about the final statement .
instead , i wondered what was meant by the words soldiers and civilians , both white and black , free and slave .
i quickly considered possible variations of soldiers and civilians based on the modifiers used in the proclamation for instance , free white soldier or even free black civilian fit with my understanding of the civil war south .
other combinations seemed ludicrous .
for example , white slave soldier .
whether plausible or ludicrous , i did not question those derivations however , i struggled with free black soldier , slave soldier and slave civilian .
recalling that reg had said that some historians deny that blacks fought for the south , it suddenly seemed more likely that the section of the bylaws that leland had read out loud was aimed at limiting black membership in the association for southern heritage .
i concluded that , if i was right , the words black and slave were not inserted with sincerity and goodwill on the contrary , it appeared to be a lame attempt to be politically correct .
i wish reg or any of his friends from the group of union soldiers had been there to tell me what they thought of the proclamation .
confused by what i had just read , i dropped the paper on the table and returned to the stack .
i picked up a few more articles and then an entire section of a newspaper .
beneath the newspaper was a set of tri folded papers .
i unfolded them and saw a note clipped to a document entitled catechism for southern children twenty questions for children ages 9 11 .
the note was addressed to junior .
it read , please see that these are distributed to our daughters in charleston , columbia and savannah .
contact the respective offices to find out how many copies are needed .
leland .
i pulled off the note and started reading .
question 1 .
what was the war between the states ?
answer 1 .
a war fought to defend southern sovereignty question 2 .
what is sovereignty ?
answer 2 .
the right of a person or people to make their own laws .
question 3 .
when did the war between the states take place ?
answer 3 .
from 1861 to 1865 .
the first few questions seemed innocent enough , even if the answer to question number one reflected a perspective similar to that articulated by the reenactors inside the circle of tents .
if the concern is about sovereignty , i thought , then why didnt these people give more attention to the american revolution wasnt that war also about the issue of sovereignty and , wasnt if fought on american soil ?
i thumbed through the pages to see if the remaining questions were similar .
after the first ten questions the emphasis seemed to change .
question 12 .
where and when was the first slave ship built ?
answer 12 .
in the northern state of massachusetts in 1636 .
question 15 .
how did the slaves feel about their masters ?
answer 15 .
they were faithful and devoted and were always ready and willing to serve them.2 as i read the final questions the insidious nature of the document seemed evident .
i stood there thinking about the catechism and the exchange between leland and junior , and lelands son .
i envisioned a thriving network of men and women working hard to seamlessly ease their offspring and perhaps even other children into a world of one sided beliefs and ideals .
suddenly feeling angry , i wanted to escape the realization that i now confronted .
i folded the paper and tucked it into my waistband .
excuse me , i said to max and walked down the short hallway to the bathroom .
owen was snoring loudly behind the closed door to his bedroom .
i stepped into the bathroom and switched on the light , closed the door and turned the knob marked cold on the faucet over the sink .
i splashed the water on my face , looked in the mirror and repeated the question , how can people do that to children ?
i sat on the toilet seat and dropped my head into my hands , covered my nose and mouth with my hands and cursed .
those bastards , i said .
a few minutes later i was still angry but had regained my composure .
i looked in the mirror again and saw that the flesh around the lids was red .
if i walked back into the living area max would realize that something was bothering me , so i looked aimlessly around the bathroom .
inside a cabinet i found a pair of scissors , a razor and a can of shaving cream .
when i looked at my beard i was reminded of the reenactors calling me hardcore .
while their comments were made in jest , the feeling of camaraderie was gone .
i no longer wanted to be a hardcore .
i decided to shave .
i began to cut my beard , dropping each clump of hair into the trash can .
after almost three months without shaving my beard extended more than a couple of inches beneath my chin .
i cut slowly , getting the scissors close to my skin , more flesh from my face showing with each swipe .
although the activity was distracting , i could not shake the visions of junior delivering hundreds of catechisms to some obscure meeting place in charleston or columbia .
i imagined him knocking on a door and patiently waiting for some elderly daughter of the confederacy to answer .
why mr. squires , how nice to see you , she begins .
wo n't you please come in ?
she says as she steps aside and curtsies slightly as he walks inside .
they chat for a minute , perhaps they have tea , and he explains why he is there .
when he leaves , she says , my friends and i will see that your information is properly distributed .
and please , mr. squires , do come again soon .
why its always such a pleasure to see you .
i snickered a bit at my willingness to accept the stereotype .
i finished cutting with the scissors and spread shaving cream around my face .
i touched the blade to the top of my jaw and pulled down , all the way to my chin .
the razor pulled my beard and i winced .
i continued on the opposite side .
then i shaved around my cheeks and under my nose .
having finished most of my face , i rotated the razor in my hand and began shaving my neck .
the need to concentrate on shaving momentarily prevented me from thinking about anything else .
when i was done , my face was speckled with blood .
i washed it with cold water , tore little pieces of toilet paper and placed one on each spot of blood .
after i cleaned the sink i picked up the trash can , opened the door and walked toward the living area .
max was watching me .
cut yourself ?
he asked .
hope owen doesnt mind that i took liberties with his razor and shaving cream .
he wont .
i cleaned up after myself as best i could , i said as walked past max and into the kitchen .
so what happened out there ?
somethings obviously got you worked up .
i dont want to talk about it .
i was standing in the dark , dumping the bathroom trash into the garbage can when the door to the rv opened .
it was junior .
he said to max , youre still here .
wheres my father ?
max stood up .
your fathers in bed .
he invited us , max gestured toward me , to stay tonight .
i need another blanket its getting cold out there .
junior looked at me .
i was still wearing the confederate uniform .
i expected him to say something instead he turned toward max and simply said , excuse me , then he disappeared into the back of the rv .
i was relieved that he didnt seem to be too curious about us and , since i did not want to introduce myself to him , i said , im going to take out the garbage .
max looked down the hall , then turned and whispered , you dont want to meet junior hes a real reenactor .
real reenactors dont need extra blankets , i said sarcastically .
i tied the top of the bag , went out the door and walked swiftly toward a dumpster that was setting at the edge of the camping area .
i disposed of the garbage and turned to wait for junior to leave .
xxii 11 00 pm while i was standing next to the dumpster , anna appeared , walking toward the rv .
anna , i called .
she turned to look but kept walking and turned back toward the rv when she did not see me .
anna , i called , again .
she turned again and peered through the darkness , moving her head from side to side .
ian ?
over here .
she walked toward me , but i stayed out of the light .
where are you ?
here , by the dumpster .
how nice , i heard her say .
then she caught a glimpse of me and asked , what are you doing out here ?
when she got closer , her eyes grew wide and she exclaimed , you shaved !
after taking a closer look she laughed .
looks like you had a difficult time of it , too .
numerous pieces of toilet paper were still stuck to my face .
i took annas hand and pulled her into the shadows .
whats wrong with you ?
she asked .
ive got to talk to you , but wait a minute .
okay , she said warily .
then she looked at me and whispered .
have you stopped bleeding yet ?
probably .
i reached up and began rubbing my face to get the paper off .
here , let me .
anna pulled my hand down and removed the bits of paper from my face .
its really you under all that hair , isnt it ?
how did you recognize me when you first saw me today ?
id know those eyes anywhere , she said .
then she added , truthfully , i wasnt sure until you spoke my name .
shh , i whispered .
what is it ?
i raised my finger to my mouth .
anna and i stood quietly and watched junior walk from the rv back to the battlefield .
when he was well beyond the range of our voices , anna asked , why all the secrecy ?
you wont believe what i saw tonight .
try me .
you know many of the guys out there are just ordinary guys , but some of them .
i proceeded to tell anna about the different men i had talked with .
she agreed that ben had reason to be proud of his heritage and laughed along with me when i told her about dexter and reg and their friends .
she had once watched them perform their hand to hand combat routine and regarded the act as pure spectacle .
she , too , found it easy to believe that the men of the virginia 1202nd might be found enjoying their fellowship at a hunting lodge or fishing camp as well as they did at a civil war reenactment .
then i told her about the men in the union camp .
she listened intently and occasionally nodding her head in agreement as i repeated comments made by isaac , james or gilbert .
she thought that gilberts suggestions for improving the general authenticity of reenactments was clever and amusing .
as i ran out of things to say about my visit to the union camp , i wondered what i would say next .
i was hesitant to talk about what i learned while inside the inner sanctum or while eavesdropping behind lelands tent .
attempting to redirect the conversation , i asked , so , how was dinner ?
dinner was fine , she replied , before quickly directed the conversation back to the reenactment .
so what else did you find out ?
what else ?
i asked trying to stall .
yes , ian .
what else did you find out inside the camps ?
dont hold out on me .
i looked down and said , i dont think you want to know .
dont be silly .
of course i do , she responded .
besides , just a few minutes ago you couldnt wait to tell me .
i began talking about the men inside the circle of tents and anna became somber .
as i described the spontaneous question and answer session and the music she listened intently .
but when i explained to her how some reenactors insisted that the civil war was fought over the question of sovereignty and had little or nothing to do with slavery , she interrupted me and said , you know whats wrong with them theyre like little boys , defeated little boys .
okay , was all i could say before she continued .
like some boys , they cant tell the difference between real and imaginary threats .
you know what motivates them ?
what ?
i asked , although i knew she would have continued without my reply .
she was clearly agitated .
they are threatened by people who are different than they are and they segregate themselves to avoid having to accept others .
neanderthals .
anna paused as if waiting for me to respond .
i stood silently and she said , im sorry , im just angry .
i was disturbed too , but i preferred to talk dispassionately about what i had seen and heard .
i understand your anger , i said .
i would hope so .
she took a deep breath as if to release some of her frustration and continued , you know , ian , i have to wonder if theyre happy with their own lives .
why else would they be so willing to go to great lengths to justify their beliefs even when those beliefs seem to represent a big step backward ?
theyre like the remnants of a wildfire thats been beaten down time and again , flaring up every now and then until it either runs out of fuel or someone puts it out for good .
thats quite an analogy .
its true ?
how do you know its true ?
i just do .
thats not good enough .
i paused , waiting for anna to reply .
when she didnt , i continued .
look , most of these guys are out here having fun or honoring their ancestors .
at worst , theres a few that seem to want to question the commonly accepted history .
is there anything wrong with that especially when there are many credible historians who would challenge their position .
its like an ongoing debate .
anna was unmoved .
youre just being contrary , she said .
people like that never seem to face up to the reality that the problem lies within .
its too easy to blame others .
what worries me most is that the problem is widespread and it perpetuates itself from generation to generation .
they deal with their unhappiness by trying to change the world to fit with their own self image often to the detriment of others .
ive always believed that education was the key to overcoming mistakes and limitations of the past , but people , like some of the ones out there , make me think that things will never change .
ive always believed that each generation has the responsibility to move humanity one step closer to living harmoniously .
she sighed as if weighed down by the frustration she felt and added , ian , im beginning to think that maybe im too idealistic .
of course you are , i teased .
anna gave me a weak smile and said , maybe this was a bad idea .
all i could say was uh huh .
i stood there considering whether i should tell her more .
i knew that if i said more about what i had seen she would become angrier , so i suggested , why dont we take a walk ?
thats a good idea .
we walked to the road and turned in the direction of annas house .
i was still thinking about the conversation id overheard between leland and junior .
anna must have sensed my preoccupation .
so did you find out anything else ?
she asked .
well , not really .
that wasnt very convincing .
oh oh , its nothing .
nothing , she said .
ian , if theres more , i want to hear it .
i wont be surprised by anything you might tell me .
what makes you so sure of that ?
how can it be any worse ?
well , i said and began by reminding her about our conversation with owen and then started talking about what i had overhead in the tent .
i assume you know what a catechism is ?
yes , she replied .
these men are distributing them to cities in the south .
theyre meant to educate children about the civil war .
do you know whats written on them ?
well , i happen to have a copy .
with you ?
yes .
i opened the confederate jacket and pulled out the catechism .
anna snatched the paper from my hand and started to read aloud .
when she finished reading all questions and answers she dropped her hands and said , i cant believe this .
i know .
it is hard to believe theyd go to such extremes to indoctrinate children into some kind of neo confederate world but hey , i said weakly , doesnt the church do the same sort of thing ?
no , replied anna , their methods might be the same , but their motives are different .
one would like to believe that what the church does is based on love and wanting people to learn to work together and care for one another what these guys are doing is entirely different .
i shuffled my feet .
anna cut her eyes at me and asked , thats not all , is it ?
what makes you think that ?
i can just tell .
i repeated the words that lelands son said , although i made it clear that he wasnt allowed to finish his statement .
anna immediately sat down with her back against a tree and continued her angry discourse .
thats horrible , that man has crossed over the line .
the poor little boy doesnt even know what hes saying hes the living proof , ian !
hell grow up to be just like his father and hell teach his children to think the same way .
maybe .
maybe ?
she responded .
how can you say that ?
you know thats whats likely to happen .
i nodded .
i have to talk to my father , she said .
hes got to put a stop to this .
what can he do ?
he cant prove anything hes only got my word to go on .
maybe he can have their lease voided .
what about the others ?
i asked .
you know , like ben and reg .
theyll find other places to go .
its not like its difficult to find a reenactment .
so will leland and junior .
anna looked up at me and said , i would make it right for everyone if i could god knows i would .
but i cant just sit around and do nothing when my home is being used as a recruiting center for a white supremacist organization .
and to think there are hundreds , probably thousands more like that boy .
id like to go over there and tell his father a thing or two .
hed deny everything .
he probably would .
anna stood up , so what can we do ?
do ?
i doubt that we could do anything that would make a difference .
well , they wont be back next year .
as i see it , any participation in reenacting is a tacit approval of the hatred that motivates white supremacist .
in my mind theyre all guilty of perpetrating hatred even if only by association .
no pun intended , i responded .
what ?
nothing .
come on , lets walk , i said .
good idea .
i cant think of the last time i was this upset .
and too think you can thank me for that .
we walked silently on the road toward the foxhartes home .
after a few minutes we began to talk again .
we talked mostly about thru hiking .
its a good thing that youre doing for your brother , said anna .
its not just for him .
what do you mean ?
i needed a break , i answered .
are you on sabbatical ?
yes .
when do you have to be back at work ?
september .
nice break .
yeah .
do you still like living out west ?
she asked .
not as much as i used to .
its a forward thinking place .
certainly , theres a greater emphasis on environmental issues .
but its crowded and expensive and , its , its just not home .
you miss virginia .
yes .
anna nodded and said , i would too .
you know , ian , its strange .
what is ?
part of the reason i love virginia so much is because of its rich history .
yet , at the same time , im embarrassed by some of the history .
we walked out of the trees that , from the battlefield , blocked the view of the foxhartes house .
i looked up and the night sky was clear .
other than the stars the only visible light came from the house and a sole window in one of the barns .
i told anna , i really like this farm .
thank you .
whats that light in the barn ?
i asked .
its probably zeb .
zeb , i said sounding startled .
i forgot to tell you , i thought i saw him out there .
how would you know him ?
i think he gave max and me a ride down from the mountain today .
we rode in the back of a truck just like yours except it had two confederate flag stickers in the back window .
that was our truck .
i scraped those stickers off this morning .
zeb must have picked you up when he was returning from lexington .
daddy had just bought the truck and sent it to be serviced .
zeb picked it up .
anna paused for a second .
then she said , so , zebs participating in reenactments .
i cant be sure it was him .
i recalled that earlier in the day anna had expressed some misgivings about zeb , but that didnt stop me from saying , i thought you might be dating him .
zeb , she exclaimed .
dont be silly .
i told you i was seeing a therapist .
oh , thats right .
so who is this therapist ?
his name is drew .
how long have you known him ?
i met him after mom had her first surgery , but i didnt really get to know him until daddy started rehab .
i wanted to know if anna loved him , but i couldnt think of any tactful way to ask her .
finally i just said , so ?
she looked at me and shrugged her shoulders , so ?
you like to leave the hard part for me , dont you ?
hard part what are you talking about ?
come on , anna .
i stopped walking and turned to face her .
do you love him ?
oh , that .
well .
she paused .
i dont know .
i mean i do like him a lot .
hes the guy you were with tonight ?
yes .
how did you get rid of him ?
i said , revealing a mild agitation .
i didnt get rid of him i simply told him the truth .
i told him that id run into an old friend and that i wanted to get home early that i wanted to spend some time with my friend .
i sensed that my questions were an annoyance so i changed my approach .
some time with an old friend .
old friend , i guess thats me .
anna looked at me .
i poked out my lower lip and she laughed .
you silly boy .
relieved to hear her laugh , i realized that pestering her about drew was not a good idea .
besides , i knew i shouldnt be surprised that she was seeing someone .
i didnt say any more about drew instead i said , thank you for thinking about me .
youre welcome , she said .
i reached for her hand and slipped my fingers between hers .
she smiled .
looking into the northern sky , i said , you have almost as good a view of the stars here as we have on the trail .
no light pollution .
i pointed overhead and said , theres the big dipper .
can you find ursa major ?
when i first hiked the trail i learned a lot about the stars and constellations .
i looked at the big dipper and pointed toward other stars surrounding the cup , theres the great bears head , his body and his feet .
ian , im impressed .
i know something about the stars , i pleaded .
do you know the names of the stars in ursa major ?
anna asked .
no , but i have the feeling im about to learn .
anna pointed at the great bears tail , thats alkaid , mizar , alioth , megrez , phecda after anna named all the stars she began talking about how the great bear and the sub cluster of stars commonly known as the big dipper had been important to different cultures throughout history .
the big dipper , she said , is not a true constellation , but it is one of the most recognizable groups of stars in the sky .
its been identified as a wagon , a plow and a bulls thigh , and the chinese consider it a symbol of government .
native americans say that the bowl of the big dipper is a giant bear and that the stars of the handle are three warriors chasing the bear .
when the big dipper is low in the autumn sky the indians say that the hunters have injured the giant bear and the blood caused the color of the leaves on the trees to turn red .
interesting .
thats my favorite story about the big dipper .
didnt runaway slaves use it to find the way north ?
i asked .
yes , the slaves even sang a song called follow the drinking gourd which contained a code that gave details about how to escape to canada .
supposedly , a black man named peg leg joe went from plantation to plantation teaching the song to the slaves .
where did you learn that ?
i asked .
astronomy class .
my professor also thought that the song swing low , sweet chariot was a coded song .
i interjected , swing low ?
yes .
he said that the big dipper was the chariot and in the springtime its low on the horizon in the early evening .
as the evening progresses it swings up into the night sky and shows the way home .
thats strange , i said .
its not strange .
its sensible .
thats not what i meant .
its strange that i often hear max whistling the tune in the mornings .
and , i was humming it earlier tonight , though i didnt realize it at first .
oh , replied anna .
i was intrigued , but i forgot my own curiosity and said to anna , i wish i had taken astronomy .
can you find the north star ?
she asked .
of course .
i pointed to the one side of the cup of the big dipper and moved my hand along the same line .
there .
what more does a thru hiker need to know ?
i stopped walking and looked straight up .
the milky way , that broad band of heavenly illuminated night sky that stretches across opposing areas on the horizon , was visible .
i lowered my head and saw that anna was looking overhead as well .
i stood quietly , admiring the silhouette of her long neck and the womanly lines of her body , waiting for her to look down .
she lowered her head .
i slid my fingers through her hair , and leaned forward to kiss her .
she resisted , lightly placing two fingers on my lips .
not now , she said compassionately .
today has been a bit overwhelming .
i first noticed that she said not now and wondered if that meant maybe later .
but i did not pursue her tentative response instead , i repeated , overwhelming ?
well , yes .
hasnt it been that way for you ?
i mean , we just run into each other and then she paused the revelation about these reenactments .
i cant stop thinking about that boy .
youre really are upset , arent you ?
yes very , she replied .
you make me feel like i should do something .
i might have wanted that a few minutes ago , but the more i think about it , the more i realize its not up to you .
who then ?
i asked .
i sometimes doubt that anyone can make a difference .
its ashamed that some people struggle all their lives for power , when all they really want is to feel important .
people will try all kinds of things to feel important gaining power is just one of them .
those who are not successful look for excuses and sometimes the easiest excuse is to blame others .
thats what those white supremacists are up to , and unfortunately others behave the same way .
it seems like the innocent people are the ones that get hurt i mean really hurt by the struggle between races .
i know a professor who worked at kennedy university who lost his job after he turned down a minority applicant for graduate school .
the applicant had a 2.1 undergraduate gpa , low gre scores and had already received cs in two graduate courses hed taken as a special student .
had he already been in the program he would have been on probation for having the cs and a gpa below 3.0 .
anyway , after my friend made his decision someone from affirmative action showed up and asked him to reconsider .
at first he agreed to admit the applicant , under certain conditions , but within minutes of leaving the meeting he realized hed been pressured into doing something that wasnt right .
if the applicant had been accepted , the door would have been open to anyone with an undergraduate degree to enter the program , regardless of gpa , standardized test scores and even after demonstrating an inability to succeed in graduate school .
anyway , after my friend backed out of the arrangement the affirmative action officer contacted someone on the board of visitors .
the next year my friends tenure application was turned down .
seriously ?
yes .
how did he find out that the affirmative action person had gone to the board of visitors ?
he also had a contact on the board .
in fact , his contact offered to testify on his behalf if he had wanted to file suit .
but he didnt .
he didnt want to put his board friend in that position and he said he really didnt want to be associated with an institution that was politically corrupt .
good for him , i said .
yes and no , replied anna .
hes now struggling to keep open a small bookstore in charlottesville the victim of a one upsmanship power struggle .
have you ever wondered how many innocent people have been hurt by that kind of behavior ?
she sighed .
i dont know how much longer i can live here .
i love this place but im almost ashamed to say that .
im losing tolerance for some of the people that live here .
i live here , in the middle of natures bounty .
theres little one can do in life thats more inspiring than to climb up to the peak of sharp top and look down into the valley .
at sunrise , or sunset , in the middle of a day in early spring when the leaves on the trees in the valley have opened and the those on the mountaintops havent come out yet , you feel like youve been invited to sit next to god and look down at his creation .
and then , there are the people who live here .
most of them are generous and kind and thoughtful , they understand what a gift it is to live here .
but there are others , like the members of the local white supremacist group .
im sure some of those guys out there are card carrying members .
umm .
there was a time when my father would have sold this farm to get away from people like that , but now he doesnt seem to care .
he and mom are enjoying a renewal of their relationship .
anna sighed , after we almost lost mom .
i gave anna a little smile .
daddys tried to get me to leave , but ive been too afraid for them .
yet , everyday that goes by , every time i leave the farm , i see things that make me think im living in the middle of a place where the civil rights movement turned out differently than it did in most other places .
i feel trapped , ian .
and , with everything thats happened today .
anna stopped talking .
i looked at her and saw her eyes filled tears .
i reached out and she buried her head in my shoulder .
when she finally lifted her head she said , i have to do something .
a few minutes later , we joined hands and started walking back toward the camp .
at first , anna gripped my hand tightly and pulled me along .
we did not speak , and , in our silence , i began to wonder again about the letter that anna sent to me after max and i had started hiking .
was she breaking the relationship off for good ?
or , perhaps , in an attempt to rekindle our relationship , she was inviting me for a visit .
these and other possibilities made it difficult for me to contain my curiosity .
at some point , i realized that our pace had slowed , and that anna , while still holding my hand firmly , was now walking beside me .
she was smiling and relaxed and seemingly preoccupied with positive thoughts .
the moment seemed right to ask , so , are you ready to tell me what was in that letter ?
ian , she laughed , making me feel small .
if you must know .
i tried to rewrite the letter tonight , but i couldnt find the same words .
were you telling me that its over ?
oh , goodness no , she said .
is that what you thought ?
i sighed and said nothing .
we took a few more steps and i felt a breeze nip at the hair on top of my head .
ian , do you remember what i said to you when we first kissed ?
first kissed ?
you mean while we were sitting in the porch swing at nans house ?
yes .
well , yes i was thinking about that tonight .
when ?
when i was out on the battlefield , i replied .
really ?
yes .
i like that .
what else were you thinking about on the battlefield ?
oh nothing , really ?
i see .
anna said , as if she didnt believe me .
when we arrived at the truck , i said good night to anna and walked through the trees to the spot where my tent was set up .
i looked out at the confederate encampment .
in the dying firelight the confederate battle flag in the center of the camp was folded once around the pole , slowly shifting from side to side .
i used to think it was a pretty flag .
but it means many different things to many different people , i said quietly to myself .
still standing there , i looked out at the confederate encampment and the dark battlefield in the distance .
i imagined men lined up ready to march up the gentle slope toward the union encampment .
some would hide behind rocks while others marched side by side , some would engage in hand to hand combat , another would carry the battle flag and a boy would beat a drum .
at some point they would all sing out in a chorus of shouting and hollering a rebel yell .
the vision faded and i walked over to my tent , crawled inside and got into my sleeping bag .
max was spending the night in the comfort of owens rv .
i could have done the same , but i wanted to be alone .
xxiii may 27th sometime before four oclock in the morning i awoke to the sound of something stirring just outside my tent .
i looked out .
it was still dark there was no sign of a sunrise along the eastern skyline and the moon was low in the west .
the leaves and needles on the trees were fixed in the damp , night air .
nothing was moving .
i do not like waking so early .
when lying alone in my tent before sunrise , i sometimes succumb to negative thinking .
i have never been the kind of hiker who worries about being attacked by a wild animal or having a snake crawl into the tent thats not the kind of negative thinking im talking about .
when i wake in the predawn hours of the morning i feel empty and tired , the way one feels when abruptly awakened only minutes after going to sleep following an exhausting day .
its hard to think positive when youre that tired .
instead , its easy to obsess about events or people that you can not control .
i sometimes fixate on overly generalized assumptions about the crassness of business executives and lobbyist and their insensitivity toward our air and rivers and bays .
or , i become angry thinking about how others continue to grow the bottom line at the expense of the wellbeing of children by allowing the proliferation of violence in the media .
i obsess about the materialism and the fix it with a pill expectations of our society .
most of all , i worry about whats to become of the beautiful mountains .
this morning was no different .
i started out thinking about the events of the previous day .
i had witnessed far more than i had expected .
i knew that a few days from now , when max and i were once again hiking the crest of the blue ridge , the harder edges of the experience would be replaced by the dull images of fading memories .
nonetheless , i was troubled by some of what i had learned .
i was uneasy with what appeared to be a deliberate effort to recruit members into a neo confederate world that sometimes crossed over into the darker world of white supremacy .
i became tense when i thought about the systematic and seemingly one sided way children were being taught to think about the south , the civil war and the confederacy .
i tried to convince myself that it was just an alternative view of history that may be as valid as any other perspective .
i was no historian and , even anna agreed that it was impossible for historians to be unbiased .
for some reason , however , i was not satisfied with that explanation .
restless with uncertainty , i tried to distract myself by thinking about anna .
but when the first vision of her sharing an intimate moment with her therapist friend popped into my head i decided to think about something else .
i recalled some of the brighter moments max and i experienced on the trail beautiful sunrises and sunsets the spontaneous laughter that overcame us as water ran down our faces the first time we hiked in a downpour how , sometimes late in the afternoon the deer comfortably gather nearby our campsite to graze and the conversations we often share with other hikers while sheltered inside a trail hut .
despite these efforts , i kept reliving the encounters of the day before .
it was clear that i would not get back to sleep , so i unzipped my sleeping bag , crawled out , reached down and slipped on my shoes .
i climbed out of the tent , walked to the edge of the spectators camp and looked out over the battlefield .
the confederate battle flag was hanging limp against the pole .
grudgingly , i confronted the vivid images that dominated my thinking and began sorting through the details of the past evening .
i rationalized that the south had changed in many ways , perhaps most notably in some of its attitudes toward racism .
i reflected that the notion of white supremacy had become diluted , and was confident that the intensity of the anger between black and white americans had diminished .
i was also confident that the number , or at least proportion , of white southerners who believed that they were somehow superior to people of color was only a small , small fraction of what it once had been .
the man i talked to inside the circle of tents expressed that his motivation for participating in reenactments was to promote an alternative view of the causes and outcomes of the civil war .
although the accuracy of his perspective was debatable and despite my lingering doubts , i wanted to trust his intentions .
most others , it seemed , were like ben , celebrating their heritage , or like the men of the virginia 1202nd , simply enjoying each others company while passing time on a crisp spring evening .
when i thought about junior and leland , i told myself that they represented an obscure minority that was clinging to a fading mentality .
in america the tolerance for racism was low the press , educators , politicians and the masses understood that the idea of white supremacy was simply wrong and were quick to ridicule racist behaviors .
surely , that was the way it was now .
i tried to convince myself that most people involved in civil war reenactments understood that racism persisted among some participants .
but i did wonder if they seriously considered the implication that is , as anna said , that participation is a tacit approval of the hatred that motivates white supremacists .
obviously , some participants recognized this problem and had taken measures to rid civil war reenactments of racist influence .
the headline mississippi reenactors turn their backs on the klan , seemed to provide some evidence .
i really didnt know the details of this story , but i hoped that it represented progress .
despite what i wanted to believe , i remained uneasy .
it seemed obvious that both racism and the various means by which it was perpetuated were thriving inside the large tent that stood out among the circle of tents in the confederate camp .
for a moment i thought i understood the intensity of the anger anna showed when she had said , i have to do something .
as i paced back and forth among the campers and rvs , the sound of my steps was muffled in the decaying matter beneath my feet .
i kept walking , retracing the steps that anna and i had taken only hours earlier beyond the spectators camp , onto the hard surfaced road and through the trees toward the foxhartes home .
on that dark morning i was trying to make myself tired , hoping that as i walked my feelings about the events of the day before would wane .
eventually , i became weary and willing to forgive myself for not wanting to speak out .
i returned to my tent , finally ready to fall asleep .
i sat down and felt thankful that in a few hours max and i would return to hiking the appalachian trail .
annas right , if theres a problem here , i whispered , it is not mine .
and so , i concluded that i was just a bystander who had , partly by chance and partly by curiosity , discovered a scheme that was intended to spread the alternative viewpoint that some call a neo confederate movement and others call white supremacy it was not for me to decide .
nor was it up to me to speak out against leland or junior .
even if lelands plans bothered me , it was not my place to interfere .
besides , i reminded myself once again , ive seen evidence in the stack of newspaper articles in owens rv that others are trying to expose and otherwise keep the white supremacist movement under control .
i lay down , satisfied that i had given due consideration to all that i had witnessed on the reenactment battlefield .
i closed my eyes and slowly sank into an imaginary world , a world that was much like the one i had day dreamed of hours ago while standing in thomass shower with hot water running down my back that gentle massage that somehow caused me to envision a place where it was easy to persuade people to live in harmony .
living in harmony , why not ?
i took deep breath and exhaled slowly .
dissolving comfortably into semi consciousness , the sounds outside my tent , the smells inside , and the hard feeling of the uneven earth beneath my supine body faded .
as i lay there , i felt relieved that i had not allowed the loneliness of the early hours of the morning to cloud my thinking .
i congratulated myself for managing not to become a more stereotypical southerner a kind of bigoted demon one often reads about in second rate novels .
it was in that sleepy state that an inexplicable image returned a young max and the large woman were standing in the kitchen of my childhood home in charleston .
i wanted to speak to max and the woman , but the image faded and i began reliving another moment from the same part of my past .
i was lying on a couch , and i felt a distant , yet convincingly real and gentle touch of a woman .
my youthful head was in her aged lap , and the base of her heavy palm lightly touched my temple as she ran her thick , arthritic fingers though my soft and tangled hair .
i heard her humming a soothing tune that seemed to fill a void left behind by someone that was lost long ago .
her fondness for me was obvious , as was the sense of security that she gave to me .
startled by the sound of footsteps , i sat up and looked out my tent .
betty ?
i whispered .
there was no reply .
as the dream faded and my eyes adjusted to the faint light , i looked around intently , but no one was there .
did i say , betty ?
i asked myself before i smiled at the memory of a woman walking up the driveway that led to my boyhood home .
betty visited our home once a week .
she helped cook , clean , and take care of max and me while our mom went out for the day .
i was no more than five or six years old when i last saw her until today , i hadnt thought about her in years .
as i sat remembering betty , i was filled with an old , yet warm and comfortable feeling .
as a child , i had a loving relationship with betty .
she was always kind .
she knew how much i loved mashed potatoes and cookies .
some days , when she had enough time , she would peel potatoes , boil them , and then whip them with more butter than any modern , health conscious cook would use in a week .
on other days , she would make cookies or brownies .
max and i always argued about who got to lick the spoon .
when she was tired , she would sit and close her eyes .
are you asleep ?
i would ask .
just resting my eyes , child .
just resting my eyes .
betty was a large woman .
i dont know that she was tall adults always seem tall to children but her ankles were thick with edema and she waddled when she walked .
her arms were sturdy .
some days when the work was done and we were tired , she would sit on the couch and i would crawl up next to her and lay my head in her lap .
she would hum and gently scratch my head .
i was lucky everyone should be so lucky .
betty was the first person outside of my own family that showed me what it meant to unconditionally love someone .
i started to hum the same spiritual that i often heard betty hum .
she hummed with a soft , deep resonance .
mine was suppressed , inhibited by the concern that i might wake someone .
i hummed for a few seconds before a revealing thought occurred to me .
max ?
why , its the same swing low wait a minute .
the connection was perplexing at first .
but , the more i thought about betty and max and the fact that he often whistled the same song , the more i remembered pieces of other events , events that were previously a mystery to me .
i recalled my mother watching television and crying at the sight of a young black man standing stoically in front of a crowd of white people as they spat and shouted at him .
she called to my father , honey , come here .
when my father entered the room he asked , is that bettys son ?
my mother nodded .
oh no , he said .
bettys house was burned a few days later .
no one was hurt , but when my father drove by he said , son of a bitch , i knew something like this would happen .
minutes later we stopped at another house .
betty , her son , and several other people were sitting out on the porch .
my parents and max got out of the car .
they asked me to come , but i was frightened by the many strangers standing around .
betty and her son talked with my mother and father .
max stood quietly next to my father who was resting his hand on maxs shoulder .
after talking for a few minutes , my parents hugged betty , and my father shook her sons hand .
when betty reached out to hug max , he instantly wrapped his arms around her waist and would not let go .
my mother and father finally pried his hands loose , pulled him away and returned to the car .
tears were streaming down his face bettys too .
as best i can recall , i asked , whats wrong , daddy ?
he answered , betty has to move away .
why ?
because bad people burned down her house and she has no place else to live .
where will she go ?
new jersey , he said .
i sat there quietly for a minute , trying to comprehend all that i was witnessing .
i realized that betty and her family were lucky to avoid having been hurt by the fire or the people who started it .
i also knew that new jersey was far away and that we might never see betty again .
as we drove away , max clawed at the window , betty , betty , he cried .
his body was shaking .
i was hurt too , but it was maxs reaction that i vividly remember .
i doubted that the kind of pain he was feeling could ever be relieved .
as i listened to maxs sobs , i felt compelled to say something .
the only words that my juvenile brain could summons were the words that id heard my father say when he drove by the smoking remains of bettys house .
son of a bitch , i repeated .
sitting , half in and half out of my tent , recalling the way i felt when my father drove away and left betty and her family behind , i suddenly understood that my feelings where stronger than i had wanted to admit .
fragments of sentences spoken by gilbert and art , as they argued about the differences between neo confederates and white supremacist darted around in my head .
i saw myself standing at the edge of the circle of tents talking with the confederate reenactor as the banjo player repaired his instrument .
i relived the moment i almost fell into lelands tent , the moment when his son spoke of not being prejudice .
visions of the remains of bettys house smoldering and max crying out when he realized that he might never see her again made me angry .
then there was max sitting alone by the fire , swirling his coffee cup , whistling and , on some level i believe , remembering betty .
she and her family had been assaulted in the 60s , a time when many brave men and women , mostly black , suffered because they stood up to the hatred spat upon them by bigots .
some , like martin luther king jr. and medgar evers , died at the hands of white supremacist died as they called to others to rise up against an ancient form of hatred .
thoughts and recollections circled though my head until i grew frustrated with my inability to clear my mind so , in a desperate attempt to break the cycle of obsessive thoughts , i decided to write in my journal .
as a teenager , i learned that whenever i became agitated or angry that merely attempting to write down my thoughts had a calming effect .
so i grabbed my backpack , released the drawstring , and pulled the pack open .
a vintage , boy scout cooking kit was stored in a mesh stuff bag that was setting in top of the pack .
when i pulled the bag out the kit fell onto the ground .
i picked the kit up , intending to put it back in the bag but , as it passed in front of my face i caught a glimpse of an odd reflection .
slowly , i raised the kit up in front of my face again and i saw a gruesome distortion of my own reflection .
whoa , theres a face only a mother could love , i said before i laid the kit down and reached for my journal .
a few minutes later i was writing furiously ... iwh ... what about me ?
if bigotry can be measured on a continuum , how would i be measured ?
as a child i was immersed in a culture that was nothing more than a vestige of the once slaveholding south .
bettys weekly presence in our home was evidence enough .
of course i wasnt there by choice , but one could argue that my parents were and , as a child , they were the greatest influence on my life .
were my parents bigots ?
i wouldnt want them to be judged that way , but if their past was judged by todays standards they may be called bigots .
in my early childhood my family lived , day after day , in a persistently segregated society .
i went to a segregated elementary school , a segregated church and lived in segregated neighborhood .
i vaguely remember eating in restaurants where the patrons were all white .
memories of other boundaries are less clear to me .
nonetheless , i know the boundaries were there and on some level i must have understood .
somewhere along the way , though , things began to change .
in the heat of the civil rights movement , my school was segregated one year and integrated the next .
but , when integration began , the segregation continued only the form had changed .
the disadvantages of the less privileged were clear as they were led to the back of the class , and on the whole , performance in the classroom was different between the races .
for some , disparities like these were justification for continuing a more formal segregation , but for those who measured carefully , who were patient enough to let change beget results , the successes piled up , ever so slowly , one by one .
doctors , lawyers , professors and more , until eventually , the successes came too frequently to ignore and , somewhere between the scattered stories of success and steady flow of progress , i discovered that i was a member of a culture in transition .
talk of differences began to give way to common ground .
while some held on to the past , others were blinded to what was on the outside and uniquely perceptive to only what mattered most the inside .
others , like me , retained an awareness of the past as we struggled to move toward the future the clarity of what was to come was not always self evident for me at least it was something that had to be discovered .
i dont know how or when , and , im not sure that my transformation is complete honesty may be the best i have to offer but somewhere along the way i changed .
slowly , i paid less attention to the outside and more to the inside .
eventually , i found myself more frequently questioning my own superficial judgments , or dismissing them altogether and embracing non judgment when judgment was not necessary and , practicing patience when judgment was required .
though i am old enough to have children , children who could be well into the age of abstract thinking , i have none .
but i have seen , because , as a teacher , i spend so much time with young adults , a further transformation .
so many youth of today who have a snapshot knowledge of the 60s and 70s , and only limited experience with the 80s , seem to have a different set of filters through which they see the world .
to so many of them , color is simply not an issue .
i can only wonder if my simplification is at all correct .
has my world changed so much in three generations its hard to believe that permanent change can happen so fast ?
if so , perhaps i should be grateful and recognize the debt that i owe to others .
im not like leland , partly , because my parents , yes my parents , valued the individuals right to make up their own mind , especially about sensitive issues .
i want to believe that they tried to guide me with open minds and answer my questions as truthfully as they could .
regardless of their personal thoughts and feelings they wanted to leave me to decide for myself at least on a conscious level .
it was as if they understood that their limitations were remnants of the past , and they stood aside at the right times to make way for the future .
then there was anna and other people like her that touched my life .
anna was a passionate woman , insistent that all people are worthy of being treated with respect and hopeful that education was a key to understanding one another .
she was like the youth of today , only she was born a generation early .
there was max as his brother , id seen his pain , a pain that marked his bond with betty , a pain that had never really gone away .
and , there was betty .
i wasnt sure why she returned to me , unless she came back to nudge me forward .
so , where does this leave me ?
there is no single despicable act of bigotry that shackles me down .
in fact , i could point to spontaneous acts that might be used to defend me against any accusations that i am a bigot .
but i am not blind to my own essence , and there is a collection of small slights and revealing prejudice thoughts that weigh me down .
the transformational age that i live in has taught me to spot the slights , to stop them and to avoid them .
but , as any victim of many slights might say , so what ?
knowing this , i realize that i can not fairly judge myself .
instead , it is for others , others like isaac to judge me .
he suffered the many slights and much worse .
when it comes to knowing bigots , he has seen it all .
so , i am left alone to wonder , how would isaac judge me ?
i do not know .
i do not know ... xxiv 5 00 am , or thereabout light from various manmade sources cast their fixed beams through the haze .
i had been sitting quietly for about fifteen minutes when a small , bushy tailed animal darted across the road that led to annas house .
an instant later , i saw something moving toward me .
emerging as a silhouette against a misty backdrop , i could not make it out at first .
i sat , staring intently .
it was tall and oddly shaped , like an animal with long , muscular legs and a torso that narrowed unnaturally above the hips .
i could see a head and shoulders , but the arms , if there were any , were not swinging by its side .
there was a distinctive rhythm to the gentle way the torso slowly rocked from side to side .
then i heard the sound , the clip clop of horseshoes against the hard surface of the road .
step by step , a horse with a rider emerged from the mist .
who is this , i wondered someone coming to participate in the morning battle ?
is this some kind ritual , a messenger perhaps ?
it seemed odd that there was no one else around just a lone rider .
the rider turned toward the battlefield and lead the horse through a ribbon of light illuminating the steps to someones rv .
it was then that i saw that the rider , dressed in a long coat with the tail resting on the horses withers , was carrying a flag it was curled up around the pole .
the rider passed through the spectators camp and directed the horse toward the edge of the battlefield , moving along the border that ran from the confederate to the union camp .
struck by the oddity of what i was watching , i decided to follow , taking the opposite side of the field to avoid being noticed .
i quietly crept past the confederate encampment , holding my breath when i passed by lelands tent .
at the edge of the camp , i looked across the field and barely made out the rider on the far side .
i moved slowly , staying low to the ground and hiding behind trees whenever possible .
i was peering out from behind a small evergreen when the rider stopped and dismounted , just past the crumbling stone wall that split the battlefield in half .
i ran from the tree and crouched behind the rock outcroppings that the confederate sharpshooters had used as cover .
the lone rider sat down beside the horse .
i leaned back against the rocks .
is this part of the reenactment that rose thompson failed to mention when she gave me the details of the battle of clear creek ?
i could understand her not wanting to disclose all the details , especially if there was some surprise that added to the spectators experience .
but , i was sure that i had told her that we would not spend the night knowing that , it seems that she might have at least hinted about this unusual event ?
i peeked over the rocks and saw the rider still sitting beside the horse .
a few minutes passed and i knew that at any moment the early risers and insomniacs would begin emerging from tents or fumbling around in their campers .
some would stir the remains of a fire from the night before others would turn a dial to light a gas stove or warm an electric element .
most would be making coffee .
twilight slowly turned to daylight .
several reenactors started to scurry about .
when i , once again , looked across to the far side of the battlefield , the rider had one foot in the stirrup and was swinging the other leg over the saddle .
the rider pulled forward , took the reins in one hand , held the flag in the other and sat as if waiting for the right moment to nudge the horse forward .
as i waited , i started to think about the soldiers that had died on the battlefield .
the identity of those men and precisely what compelled each of them to fight remained a mystery , but i did know more about them than i had known before .
i wondered if i should feel remorseful , questioning whether some of the harder feelings id felt after encountering reenactors inside the circle of tents were discounting the sacrifice of others .
but , i was confident that leland , and those like him , interpreted history in a way that conveniently supported their purpose .
perhaps anna was right when she said that it was time someone stepped forward to challenge men like that ?
the rider abruptly turned the horse towards the rocks , where i was hiding , then leaned forward and dug their heels into the animals flanks .
the horse reared slightly , started forward with a jump and quickly ran into a gallop .
they accelerated and the rider leaned forward holding the flag low , half unfurled , half flapping , in the rush against the still morning air .
soon after the horse began to gallop , the pair was bearing down on the opposite side of the field and the rider pulled gently on the reins .
the rider leaned back and pushed against stirrups .
in unison with the movements of the rider , the horse slowed , shifted her weight back and pressed her hoofs into the soft soil .
suddenly , something seemed odd .
i was expecting to see the broad shoulders , muscular arms and unshaven face of a reenactor instead , i saw the wide hips , rounded bosom and delicate hands of a woman .
the rider was a woman it was anna .
i might have jumped up and called out to her , but i was too surprised and too curious to see what she was up to .
i sat there , spellbound , waiting to see what she would do next .
anna gently laid the reins on the side of the horses neck a beautiful chestnut mare that i had noticed grazing in the pasture behind annas house .
the mare turned , neighed and blew out hard .
that a girl , let everybody know were here .
i heard anna say .
she was only a few yards away .
without any hesitation , anna dug her heels into the mares sides a second time and took off , racing back to where they had started .
the flag a confederate battle flag was still loosely wrapped around the pole .
when the two reached the other side , anna quickly turned the mare around and stopped .
i looked left , and then right , and saw crowds of shouting reenactors at the border of each camp .
some were running about , a few were shaking their fist in the air and others were pointing toward anna .
anna unfurled the flag and held it high above her head .
she waved it back and forth and a loud cheer rose up from the confederate camp then a musket shot rang out , perhaps a signal of approval sent to anna , or perhaps a noise made to rouse any sleeping reenactors .
more and more men emerged from the tents until the edges of the camps were lined with curious onlookers .
once again , anna punched the horse with her heels and leaned forward .
she galloped toward the middle of the field and i watched the flag billow and pop .
i sensed great power when i heard the sound of hooves pounding the soft earth and the flag beating against the air .
i empathized with anna imagining the exhilaration of the swift and rolling journey on the back of such a magnificent animal .
as the horse slowed , anna appeared calm and determined .
the horse stopped and anna held her still for a moment , as if she were gathering her thoughts .
this is it , girl , she said and , just as the cheers from the reenactors began to die out , she bolted .
she quickly reached the center of the field and pulled hard on the reins .
the chestnut mare obediently struggled to overcome her momentum and clumps of dirt and grass flew into the air as they came to a halt .
anna dismounted and stood holding the reins in one hand and the flag in the other .
she turned to face the confederate camp , raised the flag and waved it slowly .
the approving cheers , whoops and whistles were more raucous than before but , when she turned and did the same toward the union camp , the response was muted .
anna jammed the flagpole into the ground , reached into her pocket and pulled something out .
the object fell from her hands .
she bent over and quickly picked it up somehow i knew that it was a box of matches .
fearfully , i said , shes going to burn the flag !
anna struggled to open the box with one hand .
come on , come on , i heard her cry .
she pulled the horse closer and used two hands to open the box while still holding the reins .
she slid the box open and the matches fell out .
she shook her head and laughed then she bent over to pick one up .
while she was fumbling with the match , a brief volley three or four shots of musket fire rang out .
the mare repeatedly pulled on the reins , but anna steadfastly held tight .
she was clearly frustrated and shaking , when she finally laid the head of the match squarely on the side of the box and pushed it .
the match sparked and burst into flames .
the mare pulled again , and anna let her go .
she cupped her hand around the flame and laid the match against the tip of the flag .
flames licked up along the edge and the flag started to burn .
anna pulled the pole from the ground and waved it slowly back and forth hard enough to fan the fire , but not hard enough to extinguish it .
at first , the only sound i heard came from the flag flapping above annas head .
i watched it burn , then i turned my head and saw men dressed in gray uniforms looking on in stunned silence .
the flames grew larger and a quarter of the flag was quickly consumed .
voices once again rose up from the confederate camp .
the noise reached a fevered pitch , making a sound i had not expected to hear .
it grew louder until it was unmistakable the rebel yell .
the roar intensified , and confederate soldiers started running toward anna .
she stood in the middle of the field vigorously waving the burning flag and starring down the confederate army as it charged forward .
union reenactors were also running toward her , but they ran silently .
crouched behind the rocks , i realized that i was throbbing with fear and a strange awareness , as profound as anything id ever felt before .
the reclusive , thru hiker part of me wished that none of this had ever happened , that id listened to max and stayed on the trail .
but certain disconnected pieces of my past , some that i strained to keep hidden from myself and others that had lain dormant throughout the entirety of my adult life , suddenly came together .
damn it , anna , i said , what have you gotten me into ?
i stood up my heart pounded , my legs pulsated , and the optical centers in my brain perceived sharp edges around the objects in front of me while i remained aware of movement in the periphery .
i took off running toward the center of the field .
when i approached , anna turned and faced me still waving the flag .
the flames were hot , and sizzling pieces of burning cloth dropped to the grass in front of us .
the flag was more than half burned .
anna smiled .
when i got close she said , its about time you got here .
i hope you know what youre doing .
and if i dont ?
she replied .
the mass of charging rebels was no longer yelling so loud , nor were they running so fast .
the gentle , uphill slope and tall , wet grass grabbing at their feet had tired them .
only one man was still running hard , increasing his lead over the others whom were now only jogging or walking .
lets get the horse , anna said , as she jammed the pole , with its tattered remnants of the burning flag , into the ground .
good idea , i reacted .
i didnt know what anna was thinking , but i hoped she was planning to get away from the approaching armies .
anna turned to the mare .
we walked slowly , trying not to spook her .
anna leaned forward and said , easy girl , easy , and reached for the reins .
the mare was unsettled she lifted her head and turned away slightly .
easy , girl , anna said again .
one step away , she reached for the reins , but before she grasp them a loud kaboom sounded and slowly echoed around the valley .
someone in the confederate camp had fired a cannon .
anna and i stood there , watching helplessly , as the chestnut mare ran off .
what now ?
i asked .
im ready for these guys .
im glad you are , i responded .
panic set in as i looked back and forth at the opposing armies steadily advancing toward us .
the lead pursuer from the confederate camp was not far away he was vigorously pumping his arms and driving his knees .
the look on his face made his intent seem clear , and i felt an urge to run .
thats when we saw an unexpected sight .
coming fast , from far across the field was a blue pickup truck .
i froze when i saw max , standing upright with his arms stretched out over the cab of the truck holding on tight .
max , i shouted , suddenly feeling more confident .
zeb , anna added .
we glanced at each other and i said , why not get out of here .
ah , anna hesitated , before she said , okay .
we started to run for the truck , but wed only taken a few steps when someone grabbed me from behind and said , not so fast , you coward .
i turned , not knowing what to expect , and looked into the eyes of a reenactor it was ben .
he grabbed my coat with both hands , pulled me close and said , i oughta kill you .
ben , its me , i talked to you last night about your grandfather and jedediah powell .
bens expression changed when he recognized me .
desperately , i said , youve got to trust us .
trust ?
yeah .
we can explain .
i did not really know if we could , but i knew we would have to try .
ben let go of my coat and turned to face his fellow reenactors .
he said out of the corner of his mouth , this better be good .
i stood there shaking and watching men from both camps circle around us .
most were gasping for air some bent over holding their hands on their knees while others held their hands on their hips with their heads turned up .
it appeared that everyone from both camps had turned out to see why someone had burned a confederate battle flag .
im sure they were also wondering why i was there .
moments later the blue truck rolled up behind us .
max jumped out and walked over .
zeb stayed seated inside the cab .
ben held a hand up as if keeping the growing crowd back .
he says he can explain .
he better get on with it , said one confederate reenactor .
anna stepped forward and said , ill explain .
a man stepped forward , took off his cap and expressed his disbelief .
theres no good explanation for what you just did , he said to anna .
his comment was followed by a universal yeah from the confederate side .
many union reenactors joined in as well .
from the back of the confederate crowd i heard , let the woman have her say well get our chance .
leland stepped forward from a mass of gray uniforms .
he wasnt wearing his jacket , the red sash or his sword .
he picked up the chard flagpole , stood up straight , glanced at me and finally glared at anna .
ms. foxharte , i presume .
correct .
ms. foxharte , i understand that this property belongs to your family .
and , because it does , i recognize that , in some ways , he emphasized , you were within your rights when you burned that flag .
however , what you have done , and i speak for the men standing here with me what you have done is insulting .
so , would you please indulge us with an explanation ?
anna stood silently , as if she was thinking about what to say .
i scanned the crowd , hoping to find a few familiar faces .
reg and darin were standing with other reenactors dressed in blue they avoided making eye contact with me .
i recalled what reg had said about not wanting to be around when real bullets started flying .
he was talking about hunting with his friends in the virginia 1202nd , but what was developing in front of us could easily disintegrate into a riot .
i looked among the confederates and saw dexter towering above the men around him , but i did not recognize anyone else , except leland and junior .
well , ms. foxharte ?
said leland .
anna starred at him .
her face was red and her jaw was clinched .
she shook her head and said , where does one begin ?
no one spoke while anna considered what to say .
she started with a question .
do you live by a set of principles , mr .
call me leland .
leland , acknowledged anna .
of course i do .
what principle or principles are you living by when you fly that flag ?
honoring ones heritage , leland answered without hesitation .
and , it doesnt matter that many people find that flag offensive ?
no .
it doesnt matter that that flag has a long history of being used by bigots as a way to instill fear in others ?
no .
so the principle of honoring ones heritage is more important than people working together to overcome their differences ?
no .
that makes no sense .
of course it does , countered leland .
no one can deny that the southern cross has a controversial past .
but , our aim is to put the controversy behind us .
we fly that flag and other confederate flags as a way to honor the better parts of the past .
but whos past are you honoring that of the bigots who taunted black americans during the civil rights movement ?
isnt someone who , at first sight , assumes that our flag symbolizes hatred or bigotry a bit of a bigot themselves ?
leland paused .
the deliberate lifting of his eyebrows and tilting of his head implied that he was calling anna a bigot .
the crowd snickered with approval , but annas expression was unchanged .
we are honoring the history of the south , a way of life , and the sacrifice made by our ancestors .
a life lost in battle to defend ones rights is a life worth honoring .
if you see hatred and bigotry when you look at a confederate flag , then blame those who taught you to see it that way , as well as others who share that vision .
what about those who lost their lives defending principles that are in direct opposition to that flag .
anna added , and , i dont mean yankees .
throughout the late 19th and 20th century , that flag has been a symbol of those dedicated to the oppression of blacks .
surely you cant just disregard the violence that was endured by one generation after another .
given that history , you must be willing to accept that that flag is divisive .
leland quickly cut his eyes at reg and the other black reenactors .
he put his hand to his chin , and for a moment i thought that he might ask for their opinion .
but , he said nothing to them and relied on himself to counter annas argument .
you have me repeating myself , he said .
anna gave a quick nod , as if to say she understood .
she tried a different approach .
people around the world look to this country for leadership we represent a great experiment .
we are a nation that embraces differences .
this nation is a refuge to those who seek to escape oppression .
perhaps what others revere most about us is the incomparable freedoms that our citizens enjoy .
but , that flag that flag , she repeated , is the very antithesis of freedom .
leland interjected , once again , you are mistaken .
what was the north doing when it invaded the south ?
it was trying to take away the freedoms of our southern ancestors .
to this day , the north supports an agenda that often pushes the limits of tolerance to an extreme that many find hard to accept .
in addition to being a symbol of southern sovereignty , that flag , as you keep referring to it , is a symbol to those who have the courage to stand up and say no to those who would impose their will on others .
while leland was talking , his son slipped through the crowd .
he stood beside his father , who responded by placing his hand on his sons shoulder .
the boy tugged on his fathers sleeve , but leland ignored him .
as the debate continued , the heads of those listening moved from side to side .
the argument went back and forth in an endless volley .
anna would make a point , often seeking a higher principle , and leland would counter , logically turning annas argument against her .
the discourse went on until anna finally reached for the highest principle .
people who love humanity , she said , would refrain from glorifying war .
and , one would hope that they would explain their motives before acting in ways that others might find offensive .
with a sigh , she added , those who fly that flag today , seem to be insensitive to those who are offended .
and worse , they seem to be energized by the controversy that they stir up .
annas words had a certain finality , and she hung her head .
i felt that she was saying , thats the best i can do .
the crowd was silent , and the debate appeared to end in a draw .
but , a draw was a victory for leland .
annas defense of higher principles would not change anything status quo would be good enough for him .
most of his men rolled their eyes at one another , adding a smirk here and there but refraining from any act of celebration .
lelands son , however , perhaps sensing the victory and not understanding the value of keeping silent , spoke out .
you told her , he said to his father .
anna closed her eyes and a steely smile spread across her face .
almost imperceptibly , she shook her head but she said nothing and the words spoken by the young boy might have been forgotten if it had not been for the reenactor who added , that he did .
his comment was followed by uneasy laughter .
angered by the comments , anna jerked her head up and whispered , ian , i dont want to drag you into this , but i have to tell them what youve told me .
its the only real evidence i have .
okay , i replied without any hesitation .
i realized , however , that while anna could repeat the fragmented bits of what i had shared with her , it might not be good enough .
she was right to convince anyone in the crowd that burning the flag was justifiable she needed evidence that it symbolized more than leland was willing to disclose .
other than repeating what i told her , i didnt know what she might say .
anna shouted , were not done here .
the crowd looked at her in disbelief .
i whispered to anna , let me speak .
no , its not fair to ask you to do this .
i turned to anna .
i know you can handle it but , its what i saw here last night that everyone needs to hear .
im the one that knows all the details .
she stood silent for a moment before she nodded and said , thats true .
so ?
okay .
i turned and looked at the crowd .
exhaling slowly , i pointed to ben , she didnt burn his flag , i began .
she didnt burn the flag of the virginia 1202nd .
i paused and thought about the neo confederates standing around the fire singing dixie and the man i had talked to inside the circle of tents .
i considered saying that she didnt burn their flag either , but i doubted that was true .
i took another deep breath and pointed at leland .
she burned your flag .
several reenactors stepped closer to leland in an obvious gesture of solidarity .
i half expected leland to become angry in response to my accusation , but he kept his cool and spoke firmly .
dont you people get it ?
as ive said before , that flag is an important symbol to all of us .
when she burned it we were all insulted .
it may be an important symbol to everyone here , but , even you acknowledged that it means different things to different people .
many brave men and women , and even children , died for that flag , said leland .
their sacrifice has been desecrated .
thats not true .
we respect their sacrifice .
its not their sacrifice that concerns us its something else that were worried about .
civil war reenacting may be a legitimate form of celebrating heritage for some , but for others its nothing more than a clever way to advance the white supremacist movement .
i could see that leland was ready to respond to my comments , so i quickly added , in fact , its better that way , isnt it ?
racist , hiding behind the legitimacy of others .
thats absurd , he said with a hint of irritation in his voice .
there are no racists around here .
i cant speak for everyone , but i can speak for the association of southern heritage .
we denounce all forms of racism .
in fact , we clearly denounce it in our creed which is the first thing you read in our charter .
furthermore , we celebrate the contribution that all men and women , black and white , made to the confederacy .
so i ask you , sir , leland nodded toward anna , and ms. foxharte , to get in that truck and leave us alone .
this has gone on long enough .
reaching inside my jacket , i pulled out the catechism and held it up .
if youre so innocent , then why are you having this distributed to children in charleston and columbia and savannah ?
junior squires stepped closer to leland .
i sensed that he recognized the papers that i held in my hand as the ones that were in his fathers rv .
leland narrowed his eyes and , a few moments later said , what about it ?
its just an educational pamphlet .
havent you ever seen one ?
we use them all the time .
someone has to make sure that our children understand the truth about the civil war .
its filled with distortions , i said .
for example ?
leland demanded .
i hastily opened the document and skimmed down the list .
when i found the question i was looking for , i read .
question number fifteen .
how did the slaves feel about their masters ?
answer number fifteen .
they were faithful and devoted and were always always , i repeated , ready and willing to serve them .
i see , said leland .
perhaps that question is not a hundred percent accurate , but it does convey the general sense of the relationship between slave and slave owners .
how can you say that when you know that thousands of slaves escaped to freedom by way of the underground railroad ?
thousands , ha , scoffed leland .
he lifted his arm in a grandiose gesture , now theres a distortion .
i suppose you can back up that one up .
his comment was met with more laughter .
there is plenty of evidence .
and there is plenty of evidence to the contrary .
i wanted to ask leland to identify his sources , but he didnt give me the chance .
appealing to higher principles didnt work , so now you question our interpretation of history , he said .
anything to make us look bad , perhaps thats the real issue .
many of the men in the crowd grumbled impatiently .
but , others looked curiously at the document i held in my hand .
i assumed they were unaware that neo confederates used such methods to educate children about their perspective on the reasons for the civil war .
lelands son tugged on his fathers arm again , but leland brushed him off and said , not now .
he then looked at me and continued , so , that paper , is that the reason why ms. foxharte burned our flag because she , or you , dont agree with our interpretation of history ?
anna interjected , youre getting the idea .
leland snickered .
i was surprised at how easily he had dismissed the significance of the catechism .
it was becoming apparent that the case against him was not as good as i had allowed myself to believe .
but i had to go on i felt that there was no other choice .
i cleared my throat and said , i have more .
someone shouted , i doubt it .
why are you rewriting the by laws of the association for southern heritage to limit membership to people whose ancestors officially served as officers and enlisted men for the confederate states of america ?
leland looked directly into my eyes as if he was trying to identify me .
he then looked away and stood silent .
perhaps he was trying to figure out how i knew about the by laws .
when he finally looked up , he shrugged his shoulders as if he was bewildered .
new by laws ?
he said .
yes , new by laws , i repeated .
i suppose you have another piece of paper in your pocket that supports your accusation ?
i hesitated .
well i was about to say no when max nudged my arm .
i turned and he handed me a folded piece of paper .
new by laws , max whispered .
huh ?
zeb gave them to me .
he gave me a wink and said , interesting .
leland took a deep breath .
well ?
i held up the paper and said , i have a copy .
leland said , as if he was trying to call a bluff , read them .
out loud ?
i asked .
of course .
i started to read , and leland interrupted me after only a few words .
what do you see in the bottom right hand corner ?
he asked .
the word draft and a date , i replied .
written a few days ago , if im not mistaken .
yes .
only a draft .
it has to be reviewed by an attorney to make sure that its legal .
as far as im concerned , thats all that matters .
however , he scowled , i sense that thats not good enough for you .
i assume that you want to know if anyone is being excluded from membership based on race .
recalling lelands comment about how some historians refuse to recognize the official service of blacks to the confederacy , i answered his question with a question .
did african americans officially serve as officers or enlisted men for the confederate army ?
leland answered immediately .
why , yes .
president jefferson davis signed an order on march 18th , 1865 to enlist negro men into the confederate army .
furthermore , there are many descendents of confederate enlisted men and officers who are african american but have no african american ancestors that served for the confederate army .
white confederate soldiers and their descendents fathered african american children and , unless im confused about genetics , he said with a smile , that would make them eligible for membership in many heritage based organizations .
lelands remark about genetics drew snickers from the crowd , but when he finished his statement , they began to grumble again .
i could tell that many of the reenactors were losing patience , and a sick feeling started to well up in my stomach .
i realized how adept leland was at using the facts to meet his needs interpreting history to better serve his purpose .
it was also clear that my approach was not working out the way i had expected .
i looked at junior squires and at lelands son , who now appeared to be more interested in me than his father .
i realized that i could have mentioned what i had overheard the boy say in his fathers tent , but i questioned whether or not i had really heard anything incriminating .
i also understood that anything anna or i said would be disputed by leland and would ultimately come down to his word against ours .
i knew that i had failed .
i sheepishly looked at anna and said , sorry .
the crowd grew loud and i discerned a variety of remarks among the rumble .
one reenactor shouted , youve had your chance boy , now take your woman and get out of here .
several others added angry words of their own .
lelands son was staring hard at me .
he looked as if he had an irrepressible urge to speak .
he opened his mouth but , before he could say anything , leland put his hand on the boys shoulder and cut in .
what we are doing here is respectfully celebrating our heritage , he said quickly .
he sighed and added .
its unfortunate that people dont understand that .
so , as i said before , please leave leave us in peace to go on with our celebration .
lelands suggestion sounded merciful .
so i said to anna , we should go .
she looked at me with a blank expression .
i gently took her arm and motioned for her to get into the truck , but she resisted .
this isnt right , she said to no one in particular and she pulled away from my grasp .
the crowd heard her remark and they became eerily quiet , anticipating what she might say next .
i could feel hundreds of eyes staring at us .
i was expecting any variety of comments , but for a few long seconds no one said anything .
i looked again at lelands son .
he looked at me and broke the silence finally able to say what was on his mind , he said , hes a nigger lover , aint he , daddy ?
a buzz of whispers erupted among the crowd of reenactors .
men moved away from leland , although a small group of loyalists stood beside him .
a few immediately turned and began walking back to the camps .
i looked at ben and he nodded slightly the glare in his eyes had given way to a confused look .
reg , who had somehow made his way back to the virginia 1202nd , and his friends began gathering in a small group .
leland was down on one knee speaking to his son .
junior squires was standing beside them with an angry look on his face .
many of the reenactors were looking at anna and me , waiting for one of us to respond .
thinking back to that day , i could have said many things , but i was too surprised by the boys words to speak .
anna said nothing either , although she later told me that she found the boys choice of words too offensive to be acknowledged .
anna looked at me and said , lets go .
we climbed in the back of the truck and stood , holding on to the cab .
my backpacking gear was scattered about .
evidently , max had hastily gathered it together and thrown it into the back of the truck when zeb stopped to pick him up .
the truck crept forward and junior called out , i know ms. foxharte there , but whats your name , boy ?
max put his hand on my shoulder , and i saw him smile .
like most people , he has different smiles this was his sarcastic smile .
max asked , whats it to you ?
junior jerked his head toward me and said , so if i ever see him again , i can properly thank him .
a few reenactors laughed and others nodded with angry looks on their faces .
max cleared his throat and shouted , dont you know , this heres huckleberry finn .
the truck turned and pulled away .
glancing across the battlefield , i said to max , you surprise me .
hows that ?
i didnt know you were so well read i mean , huck finn , come on .
what do you think ive been doing for the last eight months , watching tv all day ?
good ole max , i said , always there when someone needs him .
good ole max , said anna .
she kissed him on the cheek .
xxv 7 00 am the three of us stood in the bed of the truck as we pulled away from the crowd .
many of the men were walking toward the camps , while others , including reg and his friends , were gathered in the middle of the battlefield .
i looked back and recalled what leland had said about desecrating the memory of the men that died on that field .
the twinge of remorse i felt grew more intense when i remembered what anna said about how innocent people often suffer at the hands of others possessed by a desire for power and control .
i understood that those that died on that battlefield might have been the innocent ones .
my remorse was replaced with uncertainty when i recalled that jedediah powell , a man who had taken slaves to philadelphia to free them , had died on that field fighting for the confederacy .
how would jedediah , knowing all that had happened in the nearly one hundred and fifty years that had passed since the civil war , feel if he had been with me during the last twenty four hours ?
surely he would appreciate those who had come to celebrate his sacrifice .
but what would he think of the others those inside the circle of tents , or leland and junior ?
i would never know .
as the truck moved farther away , i spotted ben crossing the battlefield .
i was disappointed that i would not be able to talk with him .
i wanted to thank him for trusting me enough to give us a chance to speak out .
he walked alone with his head bent down .
finally , putting those many thoughts aside , i turned to max , tell me , where did you come from ?
i woke early this morning and noticed that you werent in the rv .
when i looked out to see where you were , i saw anna riding that horse .
then i saw you sneaking past the camp on the opposite side .
ive been watching you ever since .
when anna burned the flag i called colonel foxharte .
he sent zeb .
max looked at anna and shook his head .
what made you do it ?
its a long story , max , she replied .
i looked at him and said , betty .
he shot me a piercing look and replied , betty ?
betty ?
anna looked puzzled .
yes , betty .
she did it for betty , i said to max , but it looks like ill have to explain later .
as i was speaking , a large automobile rolled slowly to the edge of the battlefield .
two doors opened and annas parents stepped out .
zeb slowly pulled the truck up close to the foxhartes and stopped .
ian , max , nice to see you i think , the colonel said with a wry smile .
max and i reached down to shake his hand .
mrs. foxharte , i said .
annas mother smiled and nodded .
the colonel spoke up .
anna , i hear theres been a little excitement out here this morning .
you could say that .
but everything is under control .
im glad to hear it .
turning to max and me , the colonel said , elizabeth and i would like you to join us for breakfast .
breakfast sounded good .
i was starving , but i remembered that the foxhartes had guests .
with all due respect , colonel foxharte , i said , you have guests and , i think i would like to take up your offer some other time .
dont be silly , ian .
you and max are always welcome .
i hesitated .
theres nothing id like more , but max and i have fallen behind schedule .
perhaps when we finish our adventure , we can visit .
the colonel smiled .
an excellent idea , he said .
we look forward to that time .
he turned and looked at anna .
so , i guess this is goodbye for a while ?
yes , daddy .
anna stepped down from the truck and hugged her mother and then her father .
max and i stood there dumbfounded .
she walked toward the truck , and reached out to max for a hand .
max helped her climb back in .
oh , anna said suddenly , would you mind taking belle home , daddy ?
we turned to look at the chestnut mare that was grazing peacefully in the battlefield .
not at all , replied annas father .
thanks she said .
we waved to the foxhartes , as zeb pulled the truck onto the paved road .
i was still confused by annas farewell to her parents .
i suspected that i knew what she was up to , but i didnt want to be presumptuous .
i said to her , thanks for taking us back up to the parkway .
yes , she said , it was kind of zeb to offer to drop us off .
drops us off ?
yes , us .
im going with you someone has to keep you out of trouble .
me !
max laughed and nodded with approval .
what about your gear ?
i asked anna .
its in the cab .
i put it there last night .
really ?
i said with mild disbelief .
really .
we began rolling slowly along the road that would take us up to the blue ridge parkway .
i turned to take a final look at the spectators camp and imagined that the ghost of betty was lingering there .
in the distance , beyond the confederate encampment , beyond the battlefield , even beyond the union camp , were the beautiful mountains where i belonged .
halfway up the access road max started to whistle .
it was a cheerful tune .
the words , you , who are on the road , instantly popped into my head .
i nodded my head in time with the song and sang silently , beginning with the second verse .
teach your children well .
their fathers hell did slowly go by .
and feed them on your dreams3 recommended reading andrews , w. , h .
gates. , slave narratives , library of america , new york , 2000 .
donald , d. , lincoln , simon schuster , new york , 1995 .
foote , s. , the civil war a narrative history , vintage , new york , 1986 .
horwitz , t. , confederates in the attic dispatches from the unfinished civil war , vintage departures , a division of random house , new york , 1998 .
macpherson , j. , battle cry of freedom the civil war era , oxford university press , new york , 2003 .
potter , d. , the impending crisis 1848 1861 , perennial press , new york , 1977 .
taylor , y. , i was born a slave an anthology of classic slave narratives , 1770 1849 , lawrence hill co. , new york , 1999 .
twain , m. , the adventures of huckleberry finn , 1884 .
wells , g. , lincoln at gettysburg the words that remade america , simon schuster , new york , 1992 .
violet sky w bradley copyright 2012 by w bradley published at smashwords chapter 1 freyas life freya was a woman with an extraordinary power of will she had persevered through her 47 years of life despite feeling trapped in an uroburos of frustration .
her husband had anterograde amnesia which was , freya suspected , the most difficult form of amnesia for a wife to deal with .
put simply , her husband did not have the capability of remembering something which had happened only minutes earlier .
this meant he needed constant care and recently the painful amount of care had been exceeding freyas ability to cope .
she felt tired of merely waiting for the inevitably sad end to his life and almost angry at the lack of help she could provide for him .
although she had such willpower , freya did not seem to direct any of it at keeping herself in shape .
her natural look , although still radiating in a certain beauty , had once been indescribably stunning .
she had had a divine figure , long , shining , dark brown hair and perfect , astonishingly bright , blue eyes .
perhaps it was because she no longer cared about appearance or her own health or maybe it was due to the lack of time she had to do anything about it .
whatever the reasons , she no longer wore any kind of make up and completely refused to dress in anything fashionable .
currently , freya wore a tight fitting , plain white t shirt and a pair of dark denim jeans she had not yet put socks on , so she stood barefoot on the cold tiles of the kitchen floor .
as with any other day she heard the post hit the welcome mat from the place in the kitchen where she was currently managing her husbands medication .
she bit into the dry piece of toast which she held in her hand as she slowly moved her way into the hall , passing post it notes carefully arranged on every cupboard door , each describing its contents .
every morning her husband would enquire as to when this idea had been formulated and who had come up with it , to which she would give no response a constantly used sign telling him to be quiet .
she rarely spoke with him recently , there was little point .
he would usually reply but with a distinct lack of enthusiasm for any topic freya decided upon .
she had long ago learned that it was easier to simply keep quiet .
freya sighed as she bent over to pick up the mail , sighing more loudly with more painful tones as she rose .
another day in paradise she thought sarcastically .
her sarcasm seemed to be the only thing keeping her sane recently .
as freya made her return to the kitchen , she flung her hand out , grabbing a fly from the air .
she felt a slight pang of guilt as she opened her hand to see she had extinguished its small , defenceless life .
she muttered an apology to the insignificantly small carcass while she wiped her hand softly across her hip .
during the past week freya had been feeling lower and more depressed than she ever had before , but something told her to keep going , to continue doing as she was .
eventually , something would have to change , but change was usually a negative issue in freyas life she had always hated it with a certain passion .
from her experience nothing good was ever born from change and not just within her own life the whole world continually seemed to be altering in very much a negative way .
freya , although she did not deny the possibility , did not herself believe in any religion , but she did get the feeling she and the whole planets population of human beings were being tested by somebody .
perhaps there really was some all powerful being watching over , making or allowing her life to transpire into her own personal hell .
why did i let them force me on leave ?
she questioned herself as she took a second large bite from the dry piece of toast and began chewing slowly .
it was already the second time that day she had probed herself for an answer to this continually unanswered question .
just before the accident leading to her husbands condition , freya had for a few years worked in her dream job , helping with conservation work , travelling to a range of exotic countries .
now what was her purpose ?
to look after a man who only had an idea of how long ago he ate by how hungry he was at the time ?
there was nothing she could do about it now though , if she ever could .
this was her fate .
a fate she accepted long ago , but acceptance did not make it even slightly easier .
lifting the cold toast to her lips again , freya considered her options .
she could stay doing as she was , not an appealing option , or maybe she could run away spend the rest of her life waiting for her death on a beautiful island somewhere .
who am i trying to deceive ?
i couldnt make such an awful decision .
she argued with herself .
however , the fantasy of her perfect unending vacation still flooded through her mind .
after some time being a little too involved in her own imagination , freya turned to the bin and threw in the remaining piece of crust from the delicacy she had been struggling with all morning .
she then proceeded to open the first of her letters a gas bill .
then the second a phone bill .
surely her luck could not get much worse .
freya could have sworn that her bills should not have come for another month at least .
apparently not .
before she could recover from the shock even a little , there was a loud rasping knock on the door .
she walked back to the porch , placing the bills on the kitchen work surface as she turned .
the wonder of who the guest could be crossed her mind very briefly , quickly suppressed by almost everything within her realizing she could not care less .
as she turned the handle everything became very still .
an eerie silence followed .
this feeling always overcame freya prior to something dire happening .
almost like her own natural warning signal , to prepare her for whatever would ensue .
the door seemed heavy as she pulled it towards herself .
finally , the door was wide enough for her to see the pavement outside her semi detached house .
only the pavement .
nobody excluded the view .
her bad feeling was wrong .
eventually , freya decided to give up staring blankly at the road outside her house , instead she walked , confused , back to the cold floored kitchen .
she found herself feeling tentative as it quickly dawned on her that she should have been more concerned with the reason nobody had been at the door when she answered the knock .
maybe there had been no knock at all .
maybe she was finally going insane .
suddenly the phone burst into life causing freya to react equally as suddenly , jerking her entire body , god damn it !
she shouted in anger and embarrassment , despite the fact no one could hear except her husband who would have forgotten within a few minutes anyway .
hello ?
she questioned as the receiver collided with her ear .
she felt skeptical .
few people called besides her husbands doctor and he had phoned the previous night to check on his condition .
yes , hi .
this will be hard to explain and harder to comprehend , spoke a man on the other end .
freya could not help but notice the obvious sound of tension and fear which wavered in the mans voice .
the accent she could not pinpoint , only that it was not of english origin .
listen carefully i dont have time to repeat myself .
i need your help .
ill explain more when without warning , his voice was silenced by an ear piercingly loud , high frequency noise screaming down the earpiece into freyas ear .
understandably , she shouted out in pain and held the phone far from her face .
the side of her head throbbed from the sudden noise but her curiosity flared up inside her .
what had just happened ?
her violently pounding brain told her it was far too loud to have been a malfunction of the receiver it must have been something more .
building up the courage to listen again , she slowly moved the receiver closer to her head where a line of blood had seeped from her ear .
dead silence .
no dial tone .
no voice .
chapter 2 freyas escape she knew she should have been feeling afraid or confused , but freya had , for the first time in years , allowed excitement to course through her blood vessels she desperately wanted to return the unexpected call from the man on the other end of the line .
the kitchen phone no longer functioned freya assumed it was due to the horrific noise which had caused her eardrum to perforate , crushing her desire only briefly .
she remembered the bedroom phone and threw herself into a full sprint up the stairs to her room .
her husband still slept , allowing her to grab the phone and exit the room again without any hassling questions .
as she reached the landing , she began to punch a number into the receiver 1471 .
please work ...
but nothing appeared to be happening .
still no dial tone .
that screech affected more than just the phone itself ?
she took three small steps , descending the staircase , her mind still racing for an explanation .
then , as suddenly as the phone had rung , freyas eyes stopped seeing colour the colours surrounding her had adapted to greyscale .
freya gasped , violently rubbing at her eyes .
opening them again revealed no change her world had become black and white .
terrific rips formed in the air before her as if in the fabric of space itself , and a heavenly white light burst through the seams .
her eyes squinted and she held a hand to each side of her head , applying slight pressure to each temple .
what the ive gone insane .
she spoke to herself with a surprising calmness in her voice .
maybe im dying , she thought , her utter confusion somehow repressing any panic from rising inside her .
freyas mind unexpectedly burst into speech walk what ?
she replied , now more bewildered than ever .
the depths of her mind seemed to have just spoken to her .
who , she hesitated , said ?
her head began aching intensely , who the hell said that ?
she shouted .
im sorry to have to do it this way , i really am .
her mind spoke again , please just listen carefully .
you are not going insane .
in fact , youre far from it .
but what im about to put you through will test everything you have .
just keep one thought in mind you must escape .
i can not stress this enough .
you must .
everything depends on your escape .
concentrate .
keep your mind focused .
dont allow the others to trick you .
theyre far more intelligent than the best of us first estimated .
please , escape .
escape ?
she asked , wondering why was she humouring herself with a question , escape from what ?
by now , freya was feeling more than just distraught she was having a conversation with someones thoughts which appeared to actually be her own .
at least they were echoing around within her skull .
you will see .
the voice said , just keep conscious .
at this point her head flared up with an intense fiery pain .
the black and white staircase started to fade more black than white .
her eyelids became unbelievably heavy and began to gradually close .
dont faint this time she had her own thoughts back .
the stairs she struggled with the infinitely appealing temptation to allow her eyes to shut .
the voice in her head had warned her to stay conscious but the more immediate threat , even if she believed the voice was not some figment of her own cracking mind , was the staircase of which she would find herself lying , broken at the bottom if she were to pass out from her position three steps from the top .
she could feel the darkness quickly washing over her as if she sank into a warm , relaxing bath .
she wanted to allow it to take her more than anything , but her natural instinct to live continued the fight against her drooping eyelids .
freyas right hand reached out for the banister as her weakening legs slowly gave up the battle to keep her body upright .
she clenched her hand on nothingness .
the shock temporarily gave her a boost of consciousness allowing her to focus her remaining energy to push herself backwards , hopefully just enough to stop herself falling to a painful fate at the bottom of the staircase .
it was a long shot but there was little choice at this point .
the warm blanket of unconsciousness felt increasingly more appealing to freyas fading mind .
her body fell , spine first towards the landing .
the part of her mind still remotely alert braced itself for the pain of her back slamming against the wooden landing floor and the breathlessness proceeding .
it happened in slow motion , taking forever for freyas body to reach the landing or what she believed would be the landing .
by now her vision was black but she thought she could feel her t shirt compressing against her vertebrae .
still , the collision still did not ensue .
another second seemed to drag by .
still nothing .
then , in a sudden , unexpected flash , a blinding brightness filled her eyes .
then a colour a brilliant violet fading to a deeper purple at the edges of her periphery .
following this beautiful shower of colour came the incredible agony of her body cracking against what felt like concrete .
she heard her spine fracture with a horrific , sickening crack .
red hot pain tore up her spinal cord and stopped at her neck , causing her to scream out .
the pain continued to throb violently across her entire back .
she cried out again .
tears began to gather between her eyelids .
her legs felt a contradictory , aching numbness and her feet already completely lacked all feeling .
each of the cries which escaped her lips sent another searing flow of agony .
agony which was intensifying with every passing second .
she prayed for death or at least a silence to this unthinkable pain .
she dared not move even slightly , lest her injuries and the agony worsened further .
concentrating all her thoughts on staying motionless , freya tightened her lips , closed her eyes and tried to relax even slightly .
despite her best efforts , her muscles were continually spasming in her broken back .
her legs were totally numb now .
her waist was gradually losing feeling as well .
she began to give up on keeping her body motionless .
the warmth of unconsciousness had now wholly disappeared , leaving her without a choice of life or death .
there was no choice but to lie in this cold , harsh reality .
chapter 3 the screech freya lay for what felt like hours , painfully conscious .
then , suddenly , her damaged body became deadened with senselessness and her mind emptied for a single blissful second the agony had unanimously emptied from her broken posterior .
ive died .
fear began to surge from deep within her but she could still feel .
she knew she still existed .
she could feel the cold floor pleasantly cooling the skin on the back of her arms and heels .
she could feel the slight breeze lightly touching the left side of her body , slipping under her t shirt .
taking in some of the air , she immediately noticed its incomparable freshness for the first time .
she dared to separate her eyelids .
the beauty , crispness and clarity of colour above her poured through her pupils .
the sky ?
another breath of the perfect air caused her to quietly gasp , but this time with pleasure .
on further inspection of the space above her head , she spied three tiny golden spheres .
not quite a gold freya was used to this gold had white and silver mixed into its making .
slightly smaller than three small marbles , the spheres were spinning around one another in tiny complex orbits .
before she could study them further , she suddenly remembered her back it was broken .
was being the operative word .
whats happening ?
she half heatedly questioned , not really caring about what the answer could be at this moment .
freya decided her back was no longer broken , or perhaps the lack of pain was tricking her into sealing her fate .
either way she sat upright .
no distress this far .
i healed ?
for the first time in her life she felt normal .
like she was all there , body spirit and mind .
like everything was real .
she had not realized it before now but she had never felt this inexplicably existent .
it was something freya could not possibly , as yet , come to terms with .
for the first time in her memory all the pieces of her very existence were as one .
for the first time in her full 47 years of living she was actually feeling alive , as if her life the whole time this far had been moving beside her or nearby , rather than within her .
my soul ?
an uncontrollable smirk appeared on her face .
there is a heaven ?
in truth the landscape freya now took in as quickly as she could muster was not the afterlife as she knew it .
besides the concrete like material she sat on , a red sanded desert stretched out in all directions .
the horizon , as she was used to , did not curve away out of sight with the curvature of the planet .
it curved upwards filling her vision until a kind of fog disallowed her from viewing further .
strangely , as far as she could tell , she now found herself within a bowl shaped planet ?
maybe it was an entire sphere ?
the fog ensured it was impossible to tell .
still , she stared , transfixed at the bizarre view surrounding her .
freya sat there enchanted for quite some time .
eventually a thought crept to the front of her mind .
he said escape .
the man on the phone had asked , almost begged her to break away from something .
perhaps this was what he meant and she had succeeded ?
she had escaped from from what exactly have i escaped ?
she pondered this for a while .
is this heaven ?
she returned to her previous question .
no , freya .
she chastised herself , you lived your whole life a scientist .
this is not heaven , there must be another explanation .
if this was in fact heaven , there were very few bright colours , only the sky directly above her had a distinctive lightness about it .
there was an absence of angels and the welcome from god himself was severely lacking .
she began to wonder why it was that nobody seemed to be within view in any direction she looked .
freya estimated it was at least a hundred miles before her vision was obscured by the fog .
the desert was stereotypical .
there were sand dunes , an absence of life and water and a shimmer of heat radiating from the tops of the dunes .
the only exception was the colour of the sand deepest of reds .
freya leaned to the right taking a handful of the sand and allowing it to run through her fingers .
immediately she noticed the lack of heat against her skin .
it was cold , almost ice cold .
the sand was absorbing an extraordinary amount of heat energy from her hand and apparently reflecting very little .
this led her to think about the heat source of the planet .
same as the light source ?
she looked up at the violet sky .
and where is the light source ?
she felt warm enough the cool breeze seemed exactly accurate to keep her body temperature feeling perfect .
but she did not feel her face warming as she would have from the rays of the sun she was used to if , of course , there was a sun .
right now it seemed unlikely .
the heat bizarrely gave the impression it was somehow being generated in the air itself and yet the fresh breeze told her otherwise .
ok. freya had finally given up avoiding the question further .
where is this ?
where am i ?
she spoke aloud as if somebody nearby would answer .
nobody did .
the only sound was the wind whistling and that was only scarcely audible .
a fleeting glimmer of light snapped freyas attention to her left .
she could just make out a tiny object in the distance .
there was no way of telling at this point what it was or even its shape , but freya was quickly losing the blissful feeling of before and replacing it with an uneasy sensation , as the object was coming closer .
still not knowing whether it was friend or foe , she maneuvered her rebuilt body into a flat , chest down position on the cool sand , concealing herself as much as possible .
her head lay on her right cheek , enabling her to see the object as it moved closer .
a few minutes passed and she could make out the things shape .
it was not dissimilar to the spheres orbiting several meters above her head .
as it came closer still however , she observed it was much larger than any of the three tiny spheres it was at least twice the size of a football .
hovering less than two meters from the ground , its pristine surface shone , reflecting the violet light of the sky magnificently .
freya lay motionless .
she strained her eyes , attempting to view any details of the sphere .
the surface appeared at first to be flawlessly smooth , but as the thing came within a few meters of freya , she could make out explicit incisions curved lines bending in innumerable directions , but never crossing one another and never straight .
the globe was upon her , directly above her neck .
it strafed to the left filling more of freyas view , allowing her to finally get a detailed look at the mysterious incisions on its glistening surface .
the strange design somehow reminded her of something in her past , what it was or where she had seen it she could not remember .
suddenly and swiftly the design shifted into a new combination .
the sphere separated into two halves , still connected however by one central , cylindrical beam extending into the interior .
apart from the cylinder connecting the two halves , the sphere seemed void of everything .
before freya had time to notice the incisions within the globe , a tiny convex circle fell from the central beam to the sand beside freya , less than a centimetre in diameter .
she forced herself not to flinch as its collision with the sand sent a tiny spray of the grains into her eyes .
the first circular disk was followed by a second .
then the two halves of the sphere combined into their original form and began a prompt return to wherever it had come from .
freya pondered for a second where this was and for the first time since her arrival , had at least a little hope that others dwelled on this planet .
then , prior to her smiling at the thought of speaking with another soul , the convex disks began to move .
they pushed through the sand to one another , leaving tiny imprinted trails until they were together .
the two then oriented themselves until they created a full sphere a miniature version of their parent in every aspect .
the thing lay peacefully , dormant for a second , then it changed .
it became as red as the sand and , causing freya to let out a brief shriek of horror , it began to screech abysmally .
she instantly recognized the sound as that which had burst her eardrum earlier .
she slammed her palms against her ears .
the noise was awful , unlike anything she had heard .
it was terrifyingly high pitched and painfully loud , even through her hands .
not wanting to touch the horrific thing , she levered herself up using her elbows , her right hand left her ear for a second as she did , causing her to cry in agony .
if she stayed here she was sure , if it were possible , that she would die from this torture .
her legs burst into life , albeit weakly , and she launched her fleeing attempt .
it was to no avail , as every step she ran caused the sphere to smoothly move in closer to her thigh where it now hovered .
she pushed her palms harder into her skull , so much so the pain from her crushing hands alone was immense .
the previously deposited salt on her eyelashes was re dissolved in a fresh set of tears .
she decided to touch the thing , to see if she could simply throw it to a safe distance .
common sense told her there would almost definitely be a failsafe mechanism enabled to stop such a crude defense , but anything was worth a try at this point , as blood spread slowly down each of her cheeks .
her hand came away from her right ear and she cried out with fresh pain from the ear splitting noise .
but she strenuously continued her plan , reaching tentatively for the tiny horror .
her hand came close , within three centimetres , and the sphere screamed even more ear piercingly every millimetre closer that her fingers approached , as if the volume and the frequency were working together to make the most efficient agony possible .
suddenly , her right ear could hear nothing she was now deaf on one side .
not wanting to risk further damage she moved her hand away from the sphere the noise lessened , but only enough to stop her becoming deaf in her remaining ear .
the agony was unwilling to end .
freya fell to her now frail knees , prepared to give up the battle , but she unexpectedly had an absurd idea .
with renewed energy she rose to her bare feet and sprinted back in the direction of the concrete like slab from where she came .
she launched herself towards the only thing she knew of within her surroundings with which she could use as a weapon .
although it was still a massive long shot , freya had no other option but to try something using the three tiny spheres which remained in their orbits above the slab .
her fingers closed around one of the cold metallic objects .
she felt the force generated , perhaps by the orbits , and then the link of force between the one in her hand and the others broke violently , throwing freya back towards the sand .
the remaining two spheres followed shortly after landing in the sand beside her .
the terrifying screech still continued .
under different circumstances , freya would be intrigued as to how this piece of machinery worked , and what powered the thing .
now , with her ears bleeding and her head throbbing with the continuous torment , the thought had not occurred to her .
she held the tiny glistening sphere in her right hand , gathered the remaining two from the sand with her left , wincing at the harsh pain in her left ear as her hand moved away , and threw one full force at the screaming sphere , one meter from her feet .
surprisingly , it hit , but the sphere retaliated , sending a high voltage electric shock up freyas leg .
she convulsed violently , screamed at the pain and her left hand released her remaining ammunition .
then the pain stopped .
the sound stopped .
it was now eerily silent .
she fell forwards to her knees , feeling the sand take the heat from her skin through a hole in her now frayed jeans .
chapter 4 dosus yin and dia thorpe several long minutes passed as freya knelt , perplexed , on the cold sand .
the blood on either side of her face had already begun to dry due to the heat of the strange air .
her deaf ear was now ringing .
somehow , her hearing was coming back , perhaps thanks to whatever had healed her fractured spine .
who is doing this ?
she questioned weakly , wondering if she would in fact get a reply .
at this point , freya looked like a victim of a horrific car crash blood coated her face , her neck , her shoulders , and stained her white t shirt with deep red patches .
the expression painted across her face was one of complete bewilderment .
why did it stop ?
thousands of why , who , and what questions were tearing through her weary head .
then another voice spoke in her mind .
youre still alive .
good .
what the hell ?
was all freya could manage as a thought reply , she noticed the mans voice was still distinguishable despite the fact it was interwoven with her own cognition .
the man laughed deeply with a strange quality which resonated around her head , it is not an enjoyable experience is it ?
sorry ... that is inconsiderate .
how are you feeling ?
freya took a few seconds before she managed a weak response , ive been better .
whats going on ?
yes , an explanation .
ok , i have to be brief , you dont have long before you get the headache , not to mention the little time we have before theyll be after me again .
so , like i said before , i require your help .
the three golden balls orbiting one another ?
they brought you to this place from earth .
ill explain more when youre here .
the hold on a second .
where am i ?
and where are you ?
well i dont know much of your other life on earth but from what i understand , they have a place called heaven , which is good .
and very much the opposite is another place called hell , which is bad , yes ?
some people believe that , yes well this place is somewhere in between the two purgatory ?
her mind remained silent for a few moments so she elaborated , purgatory , its effectively the waiting room between heaven and hell .
thats a suitable description .
you are in purgatory .
except there is no god .
just lord kae .
in a way , he is a god .
not in the sense of the word you understand though .
freya was feeling more confused each second .
she decided to just accept what was happening , put her racing thoughts on standby and sceptically believe what the voice was telling her .
gradually she was learning to ignore her minds bewilderment , so who are you ?
came her next question .
i am dosus yin .
dosus yin ?
i chose the name myself , thought i could have a fresh start .
a fresh start ?
oh and on the subject of names , yours is not freya .
what ?
its dia .
dia thorpe .
dia thorpe ?
the name felt instantly correct to her assaulted psyche .
of all the information dosus had forced upon her in the past moments , her name was the only piece which felt correct .
as if she had been somehow lying to herself her whole life without realising it .
she was dia thorpe and she always had been .
the name freya was tossed aside .
im sorry .
i havent got the time to explain much right now .
i will tell you everything i can when you arrive .
having said this , dosus went silent for a few moments .
dia wondered if whatever connection he had with her mind had been broken , but a second later he burst back into mind speech , took too long .
he must be getting faster dosus seemed almost terrified , as he had on the phone earlier , but although afraid , he gave off the impression he was completely in control .
then he spoke more hastily , quickly !
you need to get moving , as do i .
there is a building , north of where you know stand .
only the one .
you can not miss it .
dont head west .
his voice then stopped .
which way is north ?
dia asked but sensed he no longer occupied her skull .
she waited several minutes in silence to be sure .
she began to experience a powerful awareness that she was completely alone but she banished the feeling and stared in every direction .
which way is north ?
there were no trees , rocks or any landmarks within sight which dia could use as a means to knowing which compass bearing she was facing .
the violet of the sky directly ahead of her seemed slightly darker than the sky to her sides and behind , though it could have been her subconscious playing tricks .
she made a decision and set off in the direction of the deeper violet , her legs trembling a little at first as if she did not know how to command them as well as she once was able .
dia thorpe had been alone with her own contemplations for more than an hour .
dosus yin was staying out from the depths of her consciousness for the time being .
she had noticed changes to her body as she advanced in the barren yet strangely pleasant environment surrounding her .
on earth , her entire physique had become much less than perfect , which , among various other things , she had blamed on her husbands condition .
now dia noted slow transformations in her figure it was slowly becoming more athletic yet it kept a certain delicate beauty .
her legs were always long , but now they tapered more gracefully down to her ankles .
her waist was thinning and her stomach flattened .
dias face had become what it once was high , perfectly formed cheek bones huge , bright blue eyes and celestial , fair skin .
flowing , dark brown hair softly caressed her face as it reached down to , and just beyond , her shoulders .
the violet light reflected off dias hair brilliantly .
overall , she now looked physically younger than a 25 year old .
the barren , red desert was appealing to her now a little more than it had earlier and a strange feeling of comfort was creeping over her , bringing with it a warm , pleasant sensation which soothed dias new body .
this could not have been due to her change in appearance that alone would not bring such a change in her outlook of the situation .
she knew something was happening to her but somehow , it felt acceptable .
even pleasurable .
after several hours of walking , dia had gained full control of her legs .
they felt more powerful now , stronger than they had ever been for as long as she could remember and her body felt lighter .
it seemed as if a huge non metaphorical weight had been lifted .
she had decided hours ago that trying to make sense of this new world was not productive and , therefore , the many burning questions searing through her mind were left unanswered for the time being .
instead she inspected herself and the positive alterations occurring in her body .
along with the new found strength in her legs , she had discovered an increase in force her hands and arms could now deliver clenching her fists had caused a nail on her left hand to dig into her palm , drawing blood .
the pain from the accident was minimal , possibly another symptom of this adjustment an increase in her pain threshold .
rocks the size of fists began to appear around dia , few at first , then after another hour of walking she was surrounded by an abundance of the deep red , similarly sized stones .
she scooped one up and , using all the strength she could summon , she launched the object at a 45 degree angle ahead of her .
she did not see or hear it land .
it had collided with the sand over the other side of a dune 90 metres away .
she attempted to stifle a grin which easily overpowered her and spread across her face .
everything about this situation was extraordinary and in a bizarre way , she liked it her body had changed in many ways and every metamorphosis she underwent had been a positive one .
never did it cross her mind that it could be a dream .
it was not a dream nothing had ever felt so close to reality .
soon dia decided to test her stamina .
she began a swift jog into the violet light .
straight away she noticed how delicate the wind whistled past her ears and stroked her hair back .
although she jogged into the soft breeze , there was much less resistance than she would have predicted .
it was a bizarre feeling .
the small amount of friction in the air caused her to wonder why she had not noticed this sooner , when she threw the rock for example .
she lost herself in thought as she jogged onwards , finding it easy to keep up a fast pace without tiring .
a huge shape began to appear in the distance .
dia strained her eyes to attempt to identify it but , frustratingly , it was too faded in the violet .
she could , however , judge its colossal size .
it was possible she had guessed the correct direction and had in fact headed north , to the castle .
she began to sprint towards the massive object , hope building up inside her with every step she progressed .
still it was unrecognisable , but she decided due to the size and the apparent uniformity , it must be a building .
it loomed more menacingly the more she reduced the distance between her and the dark structure .
then it was clear enough to make out .
it was obvious .
she slowed to a jog , before returning to walking pace .
it was a castle of sorts , but no castle dia knew of looked like this .
there was nothing she knew with which to compare such a structure .
the monstrosity rose above dia in a grotesque manner .
the sheer size of the thing took her breath away it was at least twice the height of the eiffel tower on earth , and easily more than a quarter of a mile across .
the exterior was ungainly there were strips of some kind of black material sagging down the walls which dia could not recognize and there were no windows or doors apparent on the side she could see .
only one side could be seen from her viewpoint , therefore the shape of the foul building would , for a time , remain a mystery .
as she approached further , more of the details came into view .
the first thing she had noticed was its colour black .
now , getting ever closer to it , she noted it held more of a deep maroon colouration , a colour she irrationally despised as though it had done her a great wrong in the past .
the walls appeared as if manufactured from thin , cylindrical strands of dark maroon coloured material which dia estimated to be just less than a meter in diameter .
the material , in an unattractive , sporadic fashion , weaved its way around the other material which made up the vertical wall in front of her .
spotting what looked like a darker patch in the weaving , she headed toward it , hoping for some kind of entry .
although no shadow was cast over her by the enormous construction , dia felt cold and a shiver travelled up her back .
pacing slowly closer , she was suddenly taken aback by the retched aroma which hit her like a sudden gust of thick air .
she coughed strongly to clear her lungs but the stench lingered , causing her to involuntarily cough more violently and repeatedly , each breath stimulating further choking and gasping for air .
the only comparison from earth was the reek of rotting flesh , but dia knew without a doubt this was far more intense .
she vomited .
after several minutes , dia had taken full control of her breathing and although the smell was thick and all about her , she suppressed the urge to wretch throwing up had left her with little energy but she felt compelled to find an entrance to the dark fortress ahead of her .
dia arrived at the wall .
it was a terrifying position to be in the structure completely filled her view .
she hesitated , and then reached out her slender hand to touch the terrible wall .
it was rough , slightly moist and it did not feel completely solid .
slowly , she jabbed her fingers further into the thing , causing a compression on the surface of the intertwined material .
suddenly , she felt something .
a movement .
a convulsion .
then she felt it again and a few seconds later , a third time .
it was a powerful outward force pushing against her fingers .
the realisation swiftly hit dia , no ?
she knew now what she was feeling , its a pulse .
a heartbeat .
it was living .
the monstrous architecture before her was alive .
snapping her hand away , she took a step back .
panic began to form inside her and the control of her breathing was beginning to deteriorate .
its not possible dia knew a hundred reasons why an organism could not naturally occur on land at this scale .
she was shocked back into reality the situation she had been hurled into , even with the return of her beauty , was grim .
besides the immediate horror , the dia knew she still had only one option .
she would find the entrance to this organic building , if it was in fact a building , and if of course it had an entrance .
so she tightly closed her mouth , clenched her fists and forced herself to press on , keeping a wary 5 metre gap between herself and the pulsating wall if it did wish harm on dia it would more than likely have attacked her already .
that is , if it had the capability and if it was able to aggress , it more than likely could strike her down in a single blow from well beyond 5 metres away .
regardless , she kept the distance , as the small space between her and it helped the feeling of vulnerability dim a little .
ten minutes or so passed and dia was beginning to feel more comfortable with the structure filling the left half of her vision .
ahead she could make out what she hoped to be an entrance , though at this point , she did not know whether or not entering such a terror exuding place would be the intelligent course of action .
there was no door , only an elliptical hole between two of the foul looking strands of what seemed to be blood vessels .
her senses were on edge as she warily peered through the hole .
inside , there were no blood red rocks or sand .
it was a huge room she could make out .
the floor involved polished , black and white checked tiles , each one seamlessly joined to its neighbour .
the walls were the brightest white colour and they were not rigid they seemed to wave leisurely from top to bottom , almost unnoticeably .
dia assumed the ceiling , if there was one , was high because she could not see it from where she stood outside the thing .
deciding there was little other choice , she tentatively stretched her head through the entrance and looked upwards .
there was a ceiling , it was magnificently high and there were thousands of prongs pointing downwards in the shape of upside down vs .
they glimmered with a silver light which flowed around the huge interior space in slow moving ripples and waves , adding quite pleasantly to the undulating walls .
as far as dia could tell , there was no furniture or objects of any kind in the huge open space .
again realizing there were few more reasonable options , she stepped through the opening into the expansive room .
the second her bare foot touched the floor a warm embrace took over her leg , then her other foot followed , receiving the same welcome as the first .
dias whole body bone , flesh and skin , was held tightly within the perfect comfort of the heated blanket .
it overwhelmed her completely .
her mind was at ease .
nothing mattered in this state of bliss .
her mind found it impossible to conjure any negative thoughts .
she did not want to think at all .
the one thing worth anything and therefore everything to dia was the euphoria clinging to every part of her .
she was completely trapped in the paradise prison , but she was remembering things .
remembering certain aspects of the world she was now in .
the memories came as feelings at first , but soon they appeared in her mind as fact .
she had been there before .
she had been there many times before , the most recent of which she was in a kind of danger .
the thought swam through the neurons in her brain , in a circuit , over and over , until she remembered dia had been planning an escape the last time she was on this planet an escape from something terrible .
a man ?
it felt like something more than just a man .
then an image flashed in front of her another man .
he was difficult to see , as if her memory had been tampered with slightly .
she knew , however , that this second man was not something terrible , nor was he more than just a man .
she felt somehow attached to him or , at the very least , the idea of his existence .
he had helped her , dia was sure of it , perhaps with her escape , but definitely more than once in her past .
the feeling in her forehead returned first , followed by her face , then neck .
she desperately tried to stop her return to normality , clinging desperately to the bliss with her thoughts .
a final bright flash blazed ahead of her and , as if really before her eyes , a younger , more beautiful vision of herself shimmered .
while dia gasped slightly at the bizarre phenomenon , the past version of herself spoke in a voice comparable to no human made sound .
it was perfect and unbroken as though carried through the air on softest silk .
you left this for yourself , dia . ''
she began softly , i can only hope my words will not be needed .
you once ruled here , within these walls . ''
the young dia spread her arms , her expression neutral as she explained , the beauty of this palace was unmatched anywhere across the universes .
i will tell you only the essentials no doubt you felt negative feelings towards the man in the vision .
you must fear him .
you must respect his power .
he is known as ssus and is a creature of twisted morals and logic , '' her voice quivered very slightly on the name , his mix of morality and logic create a being who is dangerous to everything living anywhere in all of existence .
ssus has no human emotion as such but can show the opposite flawlessly .
his knowledge and intelligence are unmatched and his level of skill in any combat style is absolute .
he has very rarely made errors in all the time he 's existed the scale of such an amount of time is inexplicable .
ssus has one curious characteristic , hopefully one we can use to our advantage an unfair act is impossible for him to commit without sufficient reason .
he can not slit an unknowing man 's throat or murder a child , although the most combat ready species is as much of a fair fight against ssus as a new born baby .
that is , he can not commit such atrocities unless his mind believes them to have valid cause .
he has a purpose to erase suffering from all of space and time .
the only way this is possible would be to destroy every living species which has a conscious mind , and therefore the ability to intentionally cause any level of suffering to another .
he sees things in black and white as a machine uses ones and zeros .
ssus sees evil in all creatures , including himself , in the form of past sins .
when he has taken every other life , he will take his own .
although ssus is the ultimate threat , he bred a sinless '' army of perfect , soul less soldiers , how many is unfathomable .
each quarter of the unquestioning warriors is led by his lords and dames , dedicated to serving ssus ' cause .
two are known well and feared by most .
the remaining two i have no knowledge of .
lord kae purges this universe and will be close to impossible to stop .
dame helis controls the inescapable prison '' universe used by ssus to contain those who are impossible to kill .
of course , in helping ssus take lives , the lords , dames and soldiers become sinful themselves and will be ended by the ultimate sinner ssus himself '' the beautiful , youthful appearance of the other dia 's face fell into darkness as her head stared at the floor for a moment then , tears welling in her shining eyes , looked back in the direction of the real dia .
her voice faded as she spoke her final words in a whisper , he will make a martyr of us all . ''
chapter 5 kant and daniel there was an eerie stillness as dia stood , able but unwilling to move , too deep in thought .
she was remembering more than what the vision had told her .
ssus '' she barely managed to speak , staring at a fixed point in the distance , the memory of her capture came to her like a bolt of lightning she remembered creating the vision for herself , lord kae , dame helis , the soldiers .
then the memories swirled back to ssus , ssus is ... a god '' the realisation hit her , stopping her thoughts for a moment .
she forced herself to refocus .
he took me from this place ... from my palace ... and he removed my memories .
i was left to die in the prison universe .
earth ... why was i imprisoned and not killed ?
that universe was for those who can not die .
i cant have escaped from the prison universe , it 's impossible only a lord , dame or ssus himself can remove a person from that place .
then one of the three must have .
dia was slowly collecting her thoughts and piecing parts of her past together , relaxing very slightly as she did .
eventually , she came to the conclusion that lord kae was most likely to have released her from the prison universe she was now in kae 's universe and from what she remembered of him , he was an incredibly powerful and sadistic man .
he was not created , but edited by ssus , who added and removed emotions and aspects of his personality until kae would strike absolute fear into the souls of his enemies with his disgraceful nature .
'terrific ' was a word in dia 's mind which only began to describe the horrific acts lord kae had committed with no reason but to terrorise to satisfy the nature of his being .
realising her surroundings again , dia slowly returned from her thoughts .
the palace around her had all the feelings of home now .
haene , '' she spoke the place 's name for the first time in centuries , what happened to you ? ''
her voice did not echo through the great hall in which she stood , instead it seemed unexpectedly clear and precise .
taking a few strides to her right , dia remembered 'haene ' and the memories relating .
there was a room through a door less wall on the far side of the expansive hall , she knew , and there were weapons and armour within .
she had no plan yet , but knew that steeling herself was vital for her survival and so , with a little caution , she stepped through the empty wall section into the armoury .
first , she garbed herself in a glimmering dark red shirt which her memory told her was crafted from various rare metals including an element found in the red sands outside .
it was a close to indestructible compound which was normally soft as satin , but became rigid when force was suddenly applied .
this tucked under a golden silver coloured skirt , made from the same material .
golden silver pumps were slipped onto her feet and she strolled to the gun container on the far wall , punching in a code pattern in an empty space of wall beside it , amazing herself slightly that she knew it instinctively before she remembered a method she had thought up which allowed her to withhold information during torture she simply did not know such important information as passwords in her conscious mind , instead codes and secret locations were as part of her instincts .
the front of the gun container slid upwards and de materialised through the ceiling above , revealing several hand held pistols .
dia knew each had its good and bad properties and decided to take one capable of using whatever particles were in the space around it to create a projectile of sorts and in the process , the energy to fire .
on her right there was an empty space of wall through which dia pushed her hand , grasping the hilt of what she knew to be her father 's sword , silvaera .
she withdrew it inspecting the beautifully intricate designs worked into the matte white hilt .
the thin blade , not unlike that of a sabre , shimmered magnificently as she twisted it in front of her , noticing how little weight it had as she did .
miss ? ''
came a voice from the door , causing dia to snap around , pointing silvaera at the possible adversary , wh '' she began before she recognised the familiar features of her most loyal companion , but even still , stood looking confused for a short time before she found her voice which trembled slightly , kant ? ''
the name came back to her along with a flood of uncountable fond memories .
she looked deep in thought for another short time , attempting to find words to do justice to the occasion , but where have you been hiding ? ''
was the best she could come up with .
she crossed the room , almost in a daze , lowering the sword and smiling as kant looked up at her , oh , here and there , '' replied kant with joy in his seamless voice , to be honest , miss , i thought you would never return when ssus took you .
i do n't like ssus .
i dont understand him .
maybe you could explain him to me ? ''
kant was dia 's android .
he clearly behaved and spoke differently than humans might , but dia liked to think of him as a different species and never as an object his programming had allowed him to become self aware so , as far as she was concerned , kant was an equal .
he hovered , perfectly still a foot above the ground as if pinned to that position in space .
his arms and hands , although relatively human like in shape , were a silver grey colour .
his face , currently hosting a kind expression with a smile on his delicate lips , was held further forward than that of a human being , a single complex joint in his neck allowing full movement on all axes .
while hovering , the top of his head only reached as high as dia 's waist .
the smile broadened across his face as dia knelt in front of him , placing her hands on his shoulders , feeling the artificial warmth of his body , i 've missed you , kant .
i 've missed you a lot .
i 'm so glad you 're safe . ''
i 'm glad you remember me .
i was sure you would forget .
will you tell me about ssus ? ''
of course i remember you ! ''
she chuckled , but you do n't need or want to know about ssus ... maybe i 'll tell you some other time . ''
i 'd like that .
it feels good to talk to you again . ''
with that , kant closed his eyes and bowed his head , a smile still showing in the corners of his mouth .
some time passed as dia looked at kant fondly .
then a sudden thought occurred to her , snapping her back to the reality of her situation .
kant , do you know of a man named dosus yin ? ''
i 'm afraid i do not .
is he a friend of yours ? ''
i do n't know .
i still do n't recognise the name , even after my memory recall . ''
that 's what you were doing before ssus took you ?
i wish he had never come . ''
yes .
i set the trap and left myself a message including the most important details , but it was cut off .
although i got most of my memories back i ca n't recall the name 'dosus yin . ' ''
but you remembered me , '' kant said with a smile tinged with bashfulness .
dia chuckled again , yes and i suppose that counts for something at least .
ok , i will worry about dosus later .
how is haene ?
and what the hell is that disgusting thing covering her ? ''
she remembered what she now realised was a creature of some kind spread over the outer walls of her once beautiful palace , how long has it been there ? ''
i have looked after our home , at least , as best i am able .
that thing outside though was a problem .
i do n't know how to kill it .
i think it nothing more than a parasite living off haene 's self sustaining energies .
it is really vast ...
it 's been there for the past three hundred and twenty two days .
it started out as a kind of moss which i could not remove by any means known to me .
now i can not go out there without being attacked . ''
attacked ?
i was able to enter without that thing showing any aggression at all . ''
i think it holds a grudge from when i scrubbed at it when it was in its moss form , '' sarcasm appeared on one side of kant 's mouth .
then his expression became suddenly serious with a hint of fear in his eyes , you do n't think it really is holding a grudge do you ? ''
dia chuckled at his naivety .
honestly , kant , i really do n't know .
my biggest concern right now is not that creature , whatever it is . ''
dia stopped for a moment to think her situation through as she selected a scabbard and secured it around her waist .
then she turned back to kant , my biggest concern right now is how i escaped earth .
i must have been released , probably by lord kae , but for what reason ?
i assume i was sent there by ssus because of my invincibility , which raises more questions .
how did i develop these healing properties ?
i do n't have any memory of it and i do n't understand the technology behind it . ''
the technology is of ssus ' creation , '' kant quickly answered as if reciting information from a text book , he only allows his generals use of it .
you do not recall anything of ssus ' ubilis machine ?
it records the information of every molecule in your body on a second to second basis for later use when reconstruction is required .
the correct elements are required in the air surrounding the injury for such healing to occur .
if a person 's body with a connection to the ubilis machine is completely destroyed or damaged severely , the machine resurrects the whole body and mind in the closest of ssus ' resurrection labs ... you have a connection to ubilis ? ''
i do not remember such a connection , but it seems most likely . ''
how do you know you can '' because my body was broken when i was released from earth . ''
i see . ''
if i do have this connection , and my body is destroyed when i die , i will be reborn in one of ssus ' labs ? ''
yes . ''
would it be possible for me to have had access to an ubilis machine ? ''
no .
unless you were made one of ssus ' generals , it would be impossible to get close to the devices .
they are guarded heavily with soldiers and a massive range of automated security systems . ''
so ... '' dia hesitated , ... the best explanation for me being invincible is that i have become one of ssus ' generals ?
a dame ... ? ''
she stared at her hands and turned them over as if expecting to discover some tell tale sign which proved she had become the general of a god .
she stood in silence for some time , her beautiful features portraying an expression of bewilderment and fear , i do n't like this , '' she eventually muttered , i need to find out what in hell is going on . ''
kant nodded slowly and placed a warm hand on dia 's arm , then let us begin enlightening ourselves .
follow me . ''
where are we headed ?
i do know my way around you know . ''
maybe .
i very much doubt you know of my little additions though . ''
additions ?
really ? ''
do i lie ? ''
you 've been known ... '' dia trailed off as she spoke , she felt more fondness towards the android every moment she spoke with him .
kant laughed a quiet , robotic laugh , ok , granted .
not now however .
i tell you the truth .
i have added a room or two ...
this way ! ''
dia followed kant for some time through beautiful halls she recognised well some with stunning chandelier like light sources , others with hidden sources of illumination .
there were walls gleaming with the same colour as the sand outside with tiny intricate patterns weaving about in silver .
brilliant statues of great historical beauty neatly littered some of the corridors behind invisible shields .
rounding a corner , dia recognised her weapon deactivation system , disguised as a silvery marble floor and remembered a time when her palace had been attacked with all manner of weaponry held by many different peoples and species led by a single foolhardy man .
power cells of their energy weapons were drained gun powder within their rifles was disintegrated along with the arrows of a tribe known only for their excellent archery skills .
dia and her allies remained completely uninjured .
luckily for her the remaining opposing forces had fled , for her weapon de activator had almost entirely depleted all of her own power reserves .
dia recognised an empty section of wall and pushed her hand through it , causing the device to power down , saving her fathers sword and handgun from destruction .
she turned in time to see kant 's back dematerialising through another empty wall section .
dia crouched as she followed , remembering the android 's affinity to making thoughtless mistakes creating a secret room with an entrance the exact size of himself for example .
here we are ! ''
he spoke the phrase in a german accent for no apparently reason , causing dia to laugh .
then she looked around , kant ...
i do n't see anything . ''
oh of course .
i 'm sorry , '' he said genuinely , then he pointed to the floor , touch it with your bare skin . ''
dia complied .
at the exact moment her fingers made contact with the seamless tiles , masses of crude circuit boards , wires , optic cables and microscopically thin screens popped into existence all around her .
wow ... '' was all she could muster .
the system created by kant was not a pretty one .
not a single wire or cable ran from one place to another without intermingling with hundreds of others .
only kant , being a machine , could possibly know which wire lead to what location .
dia asked kant politely what it was she was looking at .
he looked confused , what do you mean ? ''
i 'm not mechanical , kant .
this is ... '' dia trailed off not knowing what word could describe her thoughts , this is ... are those circuit boards ?
i felt like going back to basics .
kant said .
dia looked at him , then back to the mess of equipment around her , what does it do ?
she asked .
most things .
was his reply , most things and everything i need it to .
dia stared at him , waiting for him to elaborate .
it is my control room .
i can control and monitor everything i need to from here .
he pointed to a particularly untidy corner where all the cables seemed to meet in a huge bundle .
they looked as though they had been discarded there as off cuts and were not in fact connected to anything .
kant moved to the place he had indicated and turned clockwise until he faced one of the huge screens and closed his black eyes .
all the other screens instantly lit up with a colourful , blurred image which changed to something else before dia could make out what it was .
then it quickly changed again .
then again .
eventually stopping on a moving image of a man waving a small piece of paper at the much smaller figure of kant .
there , kant piped up suddenly , watch this .
dia watched the largest of the screens as the picture became a video .
the man from the image was walking towards kant with the note in hand .
he had short dark hair , dark eyes and wore strange white clothing which loosely covered from his neck downwards .
his face was host to a serious expression .
where is she ?
he spoke authoritatively but without much volume .
dia thought she recognised the voice , please .
you must be kant ?
where is she ?
she has been taken by ssus , sir .
who are you ?
where ?
earth i think .
who are you ?
but ... that means ...
the mans face contorted strangely as he said this , then his face became expressionless .
how long ago was this ?
three years and eighty eight days .
who ar my name is daniel .
has anyone been here since she was taken ?
nobody except you , daniel .
did you know dia ?
i did .
with that the man took kants hand , placed the piece of paper within it and strode towards the door through which he had come .
before he reached it , he turned back to kant .
dia thought he looked as though he was struggling against something , as if he did not want to say the words to follow .
there was a hint of sadness behind his eyes as he spoke a final time , we next meet in darkness .
the video stopped and the screens went black .
kant drifted towards dia , his hand outstretched holding with the scrap of paper from the video .
she took it silently and studied it .
it was a note , written in a hurry by the look of it but dia could still recognise the handwriting .
i recognise the man in the video , she said aloud , but he looks different , i didnt know it was him at first .
this is definitely his handwriting though .
dia then read the note , meet me in avalon .
ill wait there .
he can be stopped , i know how .
chapter 6 avalon kant looked at dia for several minutes before eagerly saying , are we going to meet him ?
dia was silent .
her mind was lost in pieces of memories of daniel , none of them complete .
she could only be sure of one thing her strong affection for him .
we are .
she said , is there enough power for the room ?
for transporting the two of us ?
yes .
to avalon .
there is enough for one journey , i think .
one should be all we need .
dia then led the way out of kants control room , down several corridors , past at least fifty rooms until they came to the room which dia had never named .
they entered and kant immediately began making preparations for their travel .
created by dias father , the room was one of the first portals in existence .
it was a gateway to almost any location across the universe dia was currently in , but she desired travel to only one place avalon .
it was a place which was considered by most as a myth , a myth depicted in the legends written by geoffrey of monmouth on earth .
dia , however , knew it well .
she had loose memories of avalon connecting her more closely with daniel , but though she tried , piecing bits of such memories together was frustratingly difficult , leaving her with only the ghosts of feelings and emotions .
she had to see him .
to speak to him .
dia somehow knew that when she did , it would all become crystal clear as it had once been .
its ready .
said kant , who had been busying himself behind a panel in the far corner .
are you ready ?
dia hadnt even considered this .
the importance of seeing daniel again was paramount .
she looked down at her sword in its sheath and her almost impenetrable outfit , then across to the gun which was now hanging from a loop on her skirt .
i am ready .
she finally replied , her voice calm but serious .
kant wordlessly shifted closer to dia and clasped her hand .
a moment later the room and everything in existence had simply gone , including dia herself .
she could neither feel nor sense .
then kant was there , she could feel him .
then she could see green light .
it was overwhelming at first , but after a few seconds , dias eyes adjusted to the brightness and the green focused into individual objects .
there were great trees , vines , bushes and long grasses in all directions but one to dias side there was a path cutting its way through the jungle .
she knew where this led .
she remembered it now .
it was a path created by herself and daniel long ago , before peace had become war .
before ssus .
she felt comforted somewhat by the sights before her and the familiar smells of foliage .
beckoning kant to follow , she began to follow the path through the undergrowth .
they walked onwards for some time .
it wasnt a difficult walk as the path somehow prevented itself from becoming overgrown .
when they came to rivers or great chasms , there were bridges which seemed far too sophisticated for the area .
once , the path took them directly through a mountain , the underground passageway lit by white flamed torches which apparently never burned out .
the time gave dia a good opportunity to find out more of her past from kant .
she re discovered memories of time spent within her own palace walls with him , as well as the times and adventures she had later told him about .
he told her of the great wars shed had a part in and of the friends she had once had .
she remembered four such friends in particular daniel , jarrad , uma and heinrich .
she had been close to these four .
they had been like family , spending most of their time attempting to stop the rise of ssus before he began killing for the greater good , for they had predicted the terrible decisions he would be making long before he began to make them .
they had failed , of course and in the many attempts , jarrad had been killed and uma went missing , presumed dead .
these losses were a great blow to the group and when dia herself had vanished , daniel and heinrich had decided to lay low , no longer meeting to discuss possible plans and tactics .
rounding a long corner atop a large hill , dia could suddenly see it the magnificent city of avalon .
it twinkled with golden light from the low sun , gloriously contrasted against the green of the vegetation .
the light reflected from the roofs and walls of magnificent towers and bathed the great wall , which circled the entire city , in a warm glow .
she could not wait another moment to be within its incredible palisade walls so she grabbed kants hand and set off at a run towards the place she remembered as an entrance .
daniel is waiting she kept repeating in her head , everything will become clear .
reaching the enormous gates which shimmered with a pearly tinge , dia pushed .
they glided open .
she stepped into the comforting familiarity of avalons walls and kant followed as she set off through the wide streets , heading as straight as possible to the largest building in avalon which dominated the centre of the city .
shadows lengthened as the sun lowered , creating an unusually beautiful effect on the windows which somehow glowed pale blue in the shade .
strangely however , there was nobody about to appreciate the beauty but dia and kant .
no people walked the glowing streets and none of the windows shone with light from within .
in fact , the whole city seemed cold and eerie where it had once been warm and bustling with activity .
dia shivered slightly but pressed on , trying to remember how the place was while considering the present as little as possible .
she rounded another corner and as she did , something soft and smooth brushed her leg .
she snapped around , eyes wide and darting in all directions but there was nothing there , at least , nothing visible .
her ears were ready to react at the tiniest sound .
none came .
she quietly told kant to stay put and crossed the street to the only place she could see where someone or something could hide , but before she moved more than a few steps , there was a muffled sound from where she had left kant .
a white , long fingered , paw like hand was closed over kants mouth and another held a gun to his side .
dia moved slowly closer with her hands automatically up in a sign of peace and she got a better view of its strange face .
it had pointed ears sticking out the sides of its head and its eyes did not appear to have an iris , they were simply bright gold and shimmered bizarrely .
its sleek , humanoid body was naked apart from millions of tiny black hairs covering its torso and upper arms .
dia decided , if its species had sexes , this one was a male .
we dont want to harm you .
she heard herself say calmly , who and what are you ?
the weird creature stared at dia then spoke in a voice which struck fear into her .
it was quiet but travelled well and had a grating , distorted quality to it .
i am caruul .
i am of the ghan .
i come for you , dia thorpe .
you will come .
it took dia a moment to steady her fear following the things voice , but eventually mustered a reply .
i am dia .
but i will not come with you .
leave my friend out of this .
do your people have no honour ?
if you wish to take me i am not going to make it easy .
with her final word , she drew her fathers sword , silvaera , which glistened brilliantly in the light of avalon .
she hoped with every fibre of her being that the creature would release kant .
it did .
but , with a loud bang issuing from the beasts gun , kants hand was ripped from his wrist .
this unsteadied dia momentarily and caruul was upon her .
she barely had time to parry the first of his advances from somewhere , caruul had drawn some sort of a spear with a barbed tip .
he came at dia again , but this time she had gathered her wits .
she chopped the spear powerfully to one side and in the same motion brought silvaera in a perfect slice towards the creatures throat .
caruul managed to slip under this and scooped the feet from under dia with the butt of his spear .
she hit the ground hard but span quickly on the floor to aim another slice at the creatures ankle .
it made contact and deep red blood splattered on the street .
caruul dropped to the floor , but readied the spear for the next attack even as he fell .
dia was already upon him , thrusting her sword sharply downwards .
caruul had no chance of avoiding the assault and silvaera pierced deep into his chest .
something that sounded like no harm issued from his lips , then the spear fell from his limp hand , the gun from the other .
dia kicked the creature back , pulling her sword from his chest as he fell backwards and turned to kant speaking hurriedly , how bad is it ?
but kant was not listening .
he was staring at a point to dias left .
following his gaze , she understood why .
there was a large mass of white moving towards them up one of the wide streets .
the army of ghan were a few hundred metres away but dia could not hear a sound of their advance .
the silent army she suddenly remembered from something she once read and immediately knew how serious the situation was .
we cant outrun them .
she said to kant as they sped up the street , we can only hope to make it to the spire tower .
kant still said nothing .
he looked afraid .
petrified even .
despite the situation , something about his look flooded dias heart with waves of guilt and , for the first time in as long as she could remember , she felt panic rise from somewhere in her chest .
she was responsible for this .
it was her fault alone .
they hurried onwards hurtling through a gateway to the courtyard of the tower before two of the fastest ghan were close enough to throw their barbed spears .
their aim was deadly accurate but dia launched herself at kant , knocking him out of the path of one and avoiding the path of another in doing so .
then they were climbing granite steps to the huge , thick double doors of the tower .
dia knew the tower would open for her when she came close enough and it did .
they rushed over the threshold and the doors slammed themselves .
dia turned to kant , guilt plastered her beautiful face which distorted it quite horribly .
kant did not make eye contact , he only stared at what was once his hand , still looking terrified but the fear was slowly turning to anguish .
several long , painful moments passed and nothing was said .
dia desperately sought out words to express her regret , or words to comfort kant but nothing came .
she knew he had never been broken like this before and until now had assumed he would react in an oh well kind of manner .
she did not know what she was going to say but had opened her mouth , unable to bear the silence any longer when kant spoke .
his voice was barely audible and the sound shook as it left his artificial lips , i dont blame you .
dia had not expected this .
she remained in silence , considering his wound .
the peril of the ghans advance was completely forgotten now she knew they were safe behind the solid , force field enchanted doors .
kant was still staring at the space where his hand once was but there was a look on his face which seemed much less sorrowful now .
it didnt hurt .
he said , just ... dont worry .
its normal to feel like this .
dia said , hoping her voice sounded calm .
kant looked up at her .
if it had been possible , dia was sure there would be tears welling up in his shining eyes .
chapter 7 the spire and the lord we should go further in .
dia announced after a while , hoping to take kants mind off his hand , while she took in the familiar atmosphere of the tower .
they were in a huge hall with long benches lining either side .
it resembled an earth church besides the aisle which was wider and seemed to be made from pure silver that flowed like a shining molten river from where they stood .
kant , still a little dazed , followed dia up the aisle .
it lead to an enormous silver spire , at least 30 metres high , which didnt at first glance appear to have a purpose other than decoration .
but dia knew what it was and , more importantly , what it did .
she reached out to it when they were close enough and touched the cold surface .
a warm energy pulsed through her arm , up her neck and into her head .
she allowed the warmth to take hold of her mind , her thoughts , her very existence and then , with a small smile , she felt the presence of daniel .
not in the room with her and kant , but in her mind as dosus yin had been .
daniel ?
she asked with thought .
dia ?
came the deep yet soft reply almost immediately .
there was a hint of something unfamiliar about his voice but dia dismissed it as an effect of the spire .
you ... made it to avalon ?
said daniel .
dias smile spread and she allowed joy to bubble up inside her .
i did .
where are you ?
can you summon kant and i ?
i dont understand ... you were on earth .
how did you ... oh yes .
ok ill bring you here now .
dia closed her eyes , knowing that the experience of travelling in this manner was not a pleasant one .
ready ?
daniels voice sounded distant in her mind now , as if muffled through a thin wall .
yes .
she replied , simply .
then she turned to kant , touch the spire and do not let go for anything .
it will become incredibly uncomfortable but you must not let go .
ok ?
kant merely nodded , then reached out what would have been his hand a few minutes earlier .
dia visibly winced at his mistake , but kant switched hands and touched the spire without a word or change of expression .
dia closed her eyes again and waited .
a minute passed with no changes .
the anticipation was almost unbearable but she told herself to be patient .
another couple of minutes dragged by .
still nothing .
whats happen she began to ask , but then it happened .
the spire became less opaque then faded until it was gone .
then the far wall , the rest of the massive room and everything outside vanished from existence leaving dia and kant standing side by side in blackness .
more time passed than dia expected and she felt panic setting hold .
something was definitely wrong .
daniel !
she heard her thoughts cry out desperately .
we are stuck in the middle ... no response came .
she looked down at kant without taking her hand from where she knew the silver spire to be , though she could not see it .
this should not be happening .
she muttered , her voice quivering slightly , we should have appeared wherever daniel is much sooner .
i didnt think it should take this long .
came kants reply , but he seemed absent minded somehow .
whats wrong ?
look .
and as he spoke he pointed with his wrist .
dia followed it but could see nothing but darkness .
keep looking .
he said , noting her confusion .
its coming closer .
she continued to stare , until suddenly she saw a pin prick of white , set against the black .
the pin prick grew and dia could soon see the shape of a man , all in white , drifting quickly towards her .
when he came close enough , she made out his face and knew it to be one she did not desire .
this man was detestable .
he was a twisted individual , dia knew , yet in appearance he was classically handsome a look which sent icy chills up dias spine .
lord kae ... she murmured under her breath , loathing the name as well as everything associated with it .
it is i. boomed the reply of lord kae , his voice was sharp and precise .
he had a pleased look about him which made dia nauseous .
dia felt weaker as kae came closer still but she drew her fathers sword swiftly with her spare hand and pointed it at the lords chest .
he continued his drifting advance until he stood with the tip of her sword touching him .
they stood like this for several seconds before lord kae spoke .
i released you from earth .
he said , smirking , his eyes staring straight into dias which widened at his words .
i released you from earth because i need you dia thorpe .
i need you to help me which will in turn help all of us .
dia stared at him , unblinking .
her mind was working overtime to comprehend what he was saying .
kae continued , i can stop ssus if we act now .
he is currently unprotected .
i may even be able to kill him , but you are the only one able to get me to where he is .
dia , her mind still on the information that kae had released her from earth , began to understand something the phone call on earth .
was that lord kae ?
her mind raced faster , pieces of a puzzle rapidly finding their correct places .
you were the voice on the phone ... ?
dosus yin ?
her voice was distant as she spoke .
kae laughed a cold , hollow laugh .
then dias sword wavered slightly as she realised , you were acting as daniel ... ?
asking me to come here ?
of course .
kae snapped , but not acting as daniel .
no .
it was daniels voice you heard and it was his body you saw in the footage which was cleverly captured by your android friend here .
he is my puppet , call it insurance if you will .
you will help me and i will release him to you .
dia had gone white and was trembling , half with anger , half with fear .
she did not , however , turn her gaze from lord kaes eyes .
there seemed to be no options .
you are betraying ssus ?
yes .
why ?
enough questions .
kaes voice had malice in it now , help or daniel remains mine .
dia steadied herself .
prove you have him .
she demanded as boldly as possible .
the lord chuckled and a thin smile appeared on his face .
then he spoke in a voice mimicking daniels , we next meet in darkness .
dia remembered instantly .
daniel had said those exact words in the footage kant had shown her .
she then thought of how he had seemed to be fighting against speaking in the video and how his voice just now had seemed strange .
the realisation hit her .
you possessed him !
she spat , unable to contain the anger any longer , you sick not past tense , dia .
i possess him .
i own him .
he is my puppet .
now , do we have a deal ?
dia clenched her teeth and tightened her grip on the hilt of silvaera .
she knew she was no match for the lord in a sword fight but she had him at a disadvantage .
dia could only assume he allowed her this advantage because he needed to buy her trust .
no matter the reason she had to try something .
so she lunged forwards , sword point first , as quickly and powerfully as her body would allow .
the sword pierced kaes chest right through to the hilt .
but kae chuckled and pushed her back .
you can not harm me here .
he hissed in a whisper by dias ear .
dia stared at him blankly .
what manner of science was this ?
she could not fight against apparent impossibilities .
she steadied herself again after a moment and , in the realisation she literally had no choice , she conceded to kae .
what ... would you have me do ?
she asked .
it is very simple .
you have to die .
thats not dia began but kae interrupted , when you die you will be resurrected in one of ssus ubilis machines .
only he knows which one i am sure he will have arranged for one machine to be programmed with your signature since he discovered you had escaped earth .
you will be reanimated in that machine and i can track which one .
kae spread his arms , indicating the expanse of black about them .
as you see , i have mastered a certain control over the spire .
it will take me to the exact location where you are resurrected .
then i wait for ssus .
silence followed for several moments allowing dia to collect her thoughts .
although her forthcoming death should have been her first priority , her mind was still reeling from kaes extravagant manipulation .
he was the voice on the phone on earth .
he was the voice in her head masquerading as dosus yin .
he had controlled daniel , ensuring she arrived in avalon as quickly as possible .
daniel really was kaes puppet , he was in danger and if dia could help , she would .
even if kae did not keep his word as dia suspected he would not , perhaps an opportunity to kill him would arise after she was resurrected .
eventually , ensuring she had thought through all possible scenarios , she spoke , what about kant ?
can you return him to my palace ?
i can .
he said and immediately turned to the android , grabbing him on each shoulder .
there was no sound .
no drama .
kant simply vanished .
then the lord looked back at dia .
i have to destroy your entire body as you may have already realised .
it will be excruciating .
dia still stared at him .
take your hand from the spire .
kae demanded .
dia obeyed .
the instant her skin left the feeling of the spire , she fell .
she knew she was falling because she felt it in the pit of her stomach but there was no wind and kae seemed to be stood as still as he had been right beside her .
he leaned forwards and grabbed her throat .
dia tried to scream but the sound was trapped in her chest .
she felt flames igniting , white hot , in every molecule within her .
the pain was incredible and somehow worsened with every second .
eventually , blissfully the agony stopped and her thoughts ceased .
her body was gone .
chapter 8 a gods mistake ?
there was a flash of blinding blue light , an intense agony which lasted a split second and then dia felt her body relax from her neck to her feet .
it was an unnatural feeling as though every muscle had simply shut down except those in her face .
dia became aware of a presence to her right .
it was lord kae .
she suddenly realised she was completely naked and felt a vulnerability unlike anything she had felt before but could not force her body into any sort of movement .
even moving a finger was completely impossible .
unable to fight the paralysis , dia took in her surroundings .
she assumed she was lying flat on her back due to the angle at which kae stood beside her , thus , she was able to make out the pale blue walls , ceiling and sphere of blue light which shone like a tiny sun directly above her .
kae faced a door over to dias left , standing perfectly straight and still .
he held a curved sword in one hand , his other behind his back in a fist .
peering around the room to ensure she had not missed any vital detail , dia noticed a shimmering , not unlike a heat haze , in a space a metre or so in front of the door .
she at first thought it was a side effect caused by her rebirth , then she understood why kae had been staring in that direction .
the shimmering became more obvious and she caught a glimpse of colours not belonging to the wall behind .
then a grey humanoid figure appeared .
looking like neither man nor woman in sex , it was hairless and its expression was completely featureless devoid of feeling .
dia found herself unable to gasp .
it was ssus .
kae stepped around where dia was lying and advanced until he was less than a couple of metres away from ssus .
the latter did not move .
kae brought his sword to ssus throat but he remained entirely motionless .
dia knew ssus could destroy kae with ease and would do for such treachery but he still did not move .
he did not even appear to be drawing breath from what dia could see .
then she noticed that the shimmering was still present and ssus was not entirely opaque .
she could make out swirls of moving colour through his dull , grey torso .
lord kae spoke quietly .
i know you will destroy me when we are done with your plans .
i choose to prevent this .
you may be aware you are currently not completely in this dimension .
with this he slid his sword through the semi transparent stomach of ssus .
that probably hurts .
i dont know ... as far as i know this has not been done before .
of course , if i killed you , your body would reform in one of your machines .
or perhaps not .
what if i had assigned your signature to one machine ?
what if that machine were set to disintegrate in that split second of resurrection ?
i think that may finish you off .
he then moved his face closer to ssus and grabbed his throat as he had dias .
dia caught the edge of a smirk on kaes face .
this is going to be enjoyable .
he whispered .
then he pulled ssus forwards , out of the shimmer which vanished immediately .
red sparks of flame issued from all over ssus body .
dia knew the agony he would be in , yet his face remained emotionless .
suddenly there was a flash of silver and kae recoiled slightly in shock , his side gushing blood , but he did not release his grip and soon ssus was gone .
dissolved into nothing as dia had been .
dia was stunned .
ssus could not have been killed so easily .
she herself had tried on numerous occasions to no avail he was too close to perfect .
kae must have developed some knowledge currently unknown to anyone else .
something well beyond the realms of understood science .
something even ssus himself had no insight into .
as she came around from her confusion , dia was watching kae tend to his wound when she realised her arms and legs could move once again .
they felt warmer now as if her blood had just begun circulating her body properly .
she knew she needed to act quickly while the lord was occupied .
she saw the silver dagger which had fallen from ssus disintegrating hand and moved towards it , her bare feet on the floor allowing her to move silently .
scooping it from the floor , she swiftly moved to a position behind kae and , without hesitation , stabbed at his neck .
she felt only the very tip of the blade touch his skin before he faded and vanished .
dia cursed .
how had he known ?
surely it was not possible that he could have reacted in the split second the dagger point touched him ?
no time to contemplate this now .
she thought , not sure whether kae would appear again at any second .
dia quickly dressed herself in her clothes which had reformed themselves at the end of where she had lain .
her fathers sword and her gun , however , were not there .
something she would have to worry about later .
now she needed to get out .
she crossed to the door and into the corridor beyond .
there were tiny suns lining the walls like the one above the ubilis machine and there was a strange odour in the air which dia did not recognise .
she jogged up this first corridor with no resistance but as she rounded a corner a tall woman came from one of the side rooms .
dia was too quick for her and the woman was pinned to the floor with the dagger at her throat in moments .
wheres the exit ?
she demanded .
the woman remained silent .
dia pressed the dagger harder into her throat .
the woman coughed then pointed into the room from which she had just come .
show me .
said dia quickly .
they both stood and walked through the door , led by the woman with the dagger now pressed against her back .
several doors and corridors later without another person appearing had dia feeling anxious .
she could only hope the lack of resistance had been something kae had arranged .
eventually , they came into to a large hall .
go through that wall .
the woman said pointing at a space which shimmered with colours .
you first .
said dia , suspicious of a trap .
the woman obeyed and dia followed .
it was instantaneous .
dia left the hall and appeared on a path which winded away into the distance .
it appeared to be night here but there were no stars and no moons visible .
looking around she found it was too dark to see anything .
the ground was soft and colourless due to the lack of light and the air was fresh and cooling against dias soft skin .
the woman she had sent through first was nowhere to be seen but this did not concern dia , she would be easy to overpower if any attack was attempted .
dia felt exhausted .
it had been a long while since she had had a proper rest but she did not feel safe here and she did not want to allow herself time to comprehend everything that had just happened .
she would do this after sleep .
her only option was to travel the path .
it felt like she had walked for at least thirty or forty miles when dia noticed a large shape off to the side of the path .
cautiously moving towards it , she saw that it was a small building of some kind .
nobody appeared to be in it , not awake at least as there was no light coming through the windows .
she moved closer until she could see inside .
there was no one within .
moving through the door she could clearly see it had been unoccupied for a long time .
thick layers of dust had built up over everything and yet there was warmth in the air as if the places heat generator still functioned .
there was an earth style bed against one wall which was more than dia could have hoped for but before she could sleep easy , her instincts told her to set traps to stop any unwanted intruders .
having circled the perimeter of the small hut like building , dia had gathered together a few materials to make a rudimentary trigger mechanism for a simple trap when triggered , rocks fell from the roof onto the invader .
she set it just outside the only door to the hut and retreated into the warmth .
happy she was safe enough , she walked straight to the bed , collapsed upon it and fell instantly asleep .
dia had no idea how long she had been sleeping .
it was still dark outside but seemed slightly lighter than it had been .
having not been awoken to the sound of falling rocks and screams , she assumed there had been no visitors .
she pulled herself to the edge of the bed , feeling well rested , but there were still thoughts to confront .
she shuddered as she considered the events from when she awoke under the violet sky .
although she would like to think there was another explanation , everything kae had said fitted .
she had been played from the start .
what now ?
she thought after some time .
lord kae had probably already taken over ssus masses of armies assuming his plan had worked and he would no doubt be planning the destruction of the other lords and dames who would not join his cause , whatever that may be .
she had no way of knowing whether daniel was now safe lord kae was not well known for keeping his word .
kant was hopefully back at dias palace , but even that was not a certainty .
she decided after a time that too much was speculation to warrant further thought so her plan turned to focus more on the near future , namely , how to get from this place , back to her palace .
preferably without dying again .
chapter 9 surviving through madness dia spent the next few days living in the hut .
she quickly discovered it was a relatively easy place to survive in .
the hut provided warmth and shelter from the weather , which had so far been mild and dry .
there was a river running not too far from her temporary dwelling which supplied clean drinking water and for food she had learned that once a day , every day , a herd of strange animals would pass behind the hut .
they looked something like the buffalo of earth , but even the largest amongst them was less than half dias height and their feet were not hoofed like most ungulates .
instead , where a hoof would have been , fur covered a soft fleshy mound .
this allowed the herd to move surprisingly quietly .
the main inconvenience of surviving here was the day length .
a night lasted twice the time of a day .
this played havoc with dias sleeping patterns because of the many years she had spent acclimatising to the length of earth days .
dia had hoped for somebody to pass by along the path in front of her newly claimed hut .
someone she could question about this place .
but there had been no luck so far to that end so the next plan was to travel the path herself .
she prepared for a long journey , tying chunks of meat to a rope she had made by weaving together some of the stronger grasses found near the river .
she also tied two animal bladders full of water to loops in her skirt and gathered materials she could use to start a fire .
having triple checked her preparations , dia began to travel the dark path , taking a final look back at her temporary home before it vanished from view .
the path took her through ravines decorated with patches of tiny white flowers growing on the grey rocks and over hilltops sprouting spiny looking shrubs and trees .
there were rivers snaking beside the path , often developing into small waterfalls which somehow gave off a powerful heat as the water was churned up in the plunge pools .
dia travelled for many hours before the terrain started to become rougher and rockier .
she knew there was little daylight left , so started a fire off to one side of the path and cooked some meat , keeping the path just in view but blocking the light of the fires flames with a make shift wall of foliage she was less concerned about her safety from attack now , but it didnt hurt to be a little cautious .
she awoke in the darkness , put out the glowing embers of her fire and set off again her eyes adjusting quickly to the lack of light .
travelling swiftly for the rest of the night , dia eventually came to something she had not expected .
she had assumed the path would lead somewhere , it was almost definitely made by a sentient being due to its uniform width and the way it followed the line of least resistance through undergrowth and between rocky outcrops .
she had not imagined that it ended , as it did , at the bank of an enormous river .
neither had she imagined there would be a small tug boat moored there .
considering the strange turn of events , dia found herself climbing aboard the boat .
the sun was just rising , casting deep red beams of light which reflected up the river and over the bow of the tug .
a deep groan came from below the deck , startling dia somewhat and a few moments later there was the sound of footsteps on wooden stairs coming closer .
dia called out what she hoped to be a friendly hello , but her hand strayed to her silver dagger .
he was a gruff looking man who emerged , about the same height as dia but much wider , wearing dirty clothes and an even dirtier beard .
who might you be then ?
wanderin onter me boat like yer owns it ?
built this meself !
its mine !
he cried out quite hysterically at dia who tried to look as innocent as possible .
i swear , she said , i have no intention of taking your boat .
i just followed the path here and yer followed the path did yer ?
howd that go for yer ?
soft int it ?
... yes .
replied dia uncertainly .
ah yes !
soft .
hope yer dint fall though .
thats how i got this .
as he said this he flashed his knee to dia revealing a small u shaped scar .
yep it hurt alright .
dont need yer sympathy though .
ill live i reckon .
so what brings yer here ?
dia stood staring at his beaming face , momentarily unable to form words .
the poor man had clearly lost his sense more than just a little .
i was looking for someone to help me understand where i am .
i dont suppose indeed i do !
indeed i do .
on clives boat arent yer !
here yer are .
on me boat .
bobbin on river geir which does flow from mount carnil .
all good .
all good .
dia looked at him , hoping he would say something less specific .
instead he wheeled around and bellowed , onwards !
then he rushed off into the depths of the vessel .
dia stared , bemused , after him and before she could find her voice , the small tug boat was speeding through the water to the opposite riverbank .
clive appeared again , this time holding something in his large , hairy hands .
i gots yer bird ere .
he muttered , mainly to himself , then his hands opened revealing a black swallow .
dia looked at it briefly then into clives face .
that isnt my bird im afraid .
she said softly , but clive shook his head .
i might be as mad as a parrot .
yes indeed .
but this ere black swalla be yours .
the swallow had been pecking at his hand , but at that moment it took off , soaring ahead of them to the opposite bank the red morning light reflecting off its glossy , jet black feathers .
dia found herself saddened to see the bird disappear into the trees .
clive had a smile plastered across his broad face when she looked back to him .
there e goes !
and ere we are !
dia had been watching treeline so intently she had not noticed their arrival at the far bank .
why have you taken me across ?
she asked , peering deeper into the forest which grew right up to the rivers edge .
to meet yer friend o course !
clive replied loudly , built im a cabin i did .
yes .
its warm and got a bed .
yerll need another bed if yer gon na stay ?
quite welcome !
more the merrier !
ill sort it out .
leave it to clive .
and he sped away into the forest .
dia tracked the crazed man to a wooden cabin not far from the shore .
she made her way towards it with no clue about whom or what clive might have considered a friend of hers , but then , framed in the cabins open doorway , she saw him .
daniel !
she cried out and before she knew what she was doing , she had pulled him into a powerful embrace .
he was taller than her and wore all white which contrasted superbly against his dishevelled black hair .
after several minutes , daniel was the first to speak .
where have you been ?
he asked in a cracking voice , kae had me under i know .
he explained it to me .
it seems his plan has worked .
hes killed ssus ?
impossible ...
he has some sort of control over the spire .
it seems he can use its effects at will , without the need to touch or even be close to it .
how is that ... ?
how did he destroy ssus ?
dia explained everything to daniel of her restoration under the violet sky , lord kae acting as dosus yin , the footage of daniel in her palace , kants destroyed hand , the ghan in avalon and the events surrounding the death of ssus .
so ... how did you escape ssus lab ?
and how did you find me ?
daniel asked following a moments silence , but dia was feeling uneasy .
she had just begun to comprehend the sheer scale of the coincidence in which she found daniel here the chances were incredibly small that she would simply stumble across the very person she sought within a few days of learning her enemy used him as a puppet .
all traces of joy ebbed away .
it had to be a trap .
the adrenaline levels rose inside her and she quickly shoved daniel into the cabin .
who is clive ? ''
she asked nervously .
... what 's going on , dia ? ''
answer me .
who is clive ?
the man with a beard who brought me across the river to you . ''
i dont know of anyone else residing he glazed over momentarily , the magnitude of the situation suddenly realised , but before they could go into it further , the sound of a man whistling drifted in through an open window of the log cabin .
they both jerked around and dia drew her silver dagger but as she did the whistling stopped and clives voice bellowed loudly at an unseen adversary , not you again !
get gone !
theyre my prize now arent they ?
yes , of course .
mine !
i aint sharin !
there was a loud thud which shook the cabin and clive screamed horribly causing a terrible echo which reverberated through the forest outside .
then there was silence .
dia and daniel remained motionless for several minutes before slowly emerging from the cabin .
clives adversary appeared to have left but the bearded form of the crazed mad man sat up against the outer wall , dead .
his eyes remained open and staring , the fear of whatever had happened to him lingered within them .
the two looked over clives body meticulously , but neither fresh wound nor any kind of bruising was visible .
dia checked for any tracks but the area was saturated with such , probably due to daniel having lived there for several days .
ive never seen him before .
daniel said eventually .
dia had to commend how calm he sounded , given the situation .
you say he ferried you across the river ?
yes .
he seemed harmless enough ... just mad .
what do we do now ?
we need to get off this planet before kae springs his trap .
any ideas ?
daniel looked slightly unsure .
i overheard kae speak with dame helis about a portal a little way to the south .
he said .
then , noting dias questioning expression continued , yes i think he has her on his side too but ill explain my theories on that later .
i tried to reach said portal but there was some sort of energy field surrounding the whole area .
he may have intended for me to overhear anyway , that could very well be the trap .
i know every time helis passes through she arrives from the east not the south .
im quite sure this planet is her making .
perhaps she has a spire .
so we head east ?
i think its our best choice .
so they moved east with haste , passing trees similar to earths fir trees but much darker .
these changed as they walked on , becoming paler and brighter until most were brilliant white .
the smaller plants and shrubs changed too , adopting the same dazzling colour .
this gave the place an unnatural feel it was almost clinical .
stop .
whispered daniel suddenly , holding up his hand .
dia obeyed and looked ahead to where he was now pointing .
its definitely helis .
she whispered back , taking in the view of a glossy white fortress ahead of them , ive been in that palace before , i remember it now .
well protected ?
does she have a spire ?
yes on both counts , but i do remember enough of its layout to give us some of an advantage .
we may be able to get to the spire if we move quickly .
its worth a shot .
back entrance ?
there is one but i would have no idea how to get to her spire room from there .
i think we would have a better chance going straight at this one .
something in dia was stirring .
having daniel once again at her side was fuelling her cravings for battle .
they moved their way as close to the front of the place as possible .
from their new position , dia could make out one man standing guard in ceremonial uniform .
it was handsome garb , but would not withstand a dagger blow by dias reckoning .
she felt the daggers balance in her hand .
good for throwing .
she thought , then turned to daniel , you ready ?
but he was nodding before the first syllable .
dia was the first to move .
she stepped into the clearing and threw the knife .
it found the guards chest with the precision of uncountable years of practice .
they both sprinted to his fallen body and dia took back her dagger along with the guards bow and quiver of arrows .
daniel took his short sword and they hurried under an arch into a courtyard .
the last time dia was here she had been a suspect in a murder trial , before helis had been under ssus rule .
she had been dragged through the hallways to a courtroom of sorts .
of course , she had been found guilty .
few were innocent in the courts of helis .
they took a right at the far side of the courtyard , then a left up a flight of stairs , dia leading the way .
rounding another corner they sped into a large room with six soldiers , side by side , blocking a door in the far wall .
unlike the guard outside , these wore white chain mail armour along with greaves , boots and gauntlets .
they will be slow .
dia thought and she notched an arrow to her newly acquired bow .
even as she released it , daniel was upon his first target , stabbing him in the throat while dodging his weak thrust .
dias arrow found the throat of another and her second glanced off a thirds shoulder .
her next shot found its mark but as daniel wore down a more skilful swordsman , the two remaining approached too close for the bow .
dia drew both daggers and dodged the attack of one man .
the other lunged but dia easily parried the attack , span to the mans side and stabbed one of the daggers into the top of his unprotected spine .
as daniel dispatched the man he had been fighting , she threw her other dagger , but the final soldier cut it from the air .
as he did , there was a glimmering which dia had not noticed before in the mans sword it shone more brightly than normal metal , twinkling beautifully in the light .
it was the sword of dias father .
it was silvaera .
dias stomach fell .
this was the trap .
kae had predicted their escape plan .
why else would her fathers sword find its way back to her at this moment , so soon after losing it ?
the lord would be upon them in moments .
he had set up this spirit crushing situation a perfect example of his sadism .
half dazed , fear rising inside her , she struck the remaining soldier in the face with the hilt of her blade as daniel pushed his sword into the mans side .
dia took silvaera from his dying hand .
where did you get this ?
she demanded .
the man just smiled and blood spilled through his teeth .
then he fell forwards and was dead .
dia stared at him as if still awaiting an answer .
daniel touched her shoulder softly .
what happened ?
he asked soothingly but dia didnt answer .
his grip tightened .
she angled her head towards him and said , its my fathers sword .
i lost it in the middle when but daniels grip was getting tighter still , painfully so .
dia attempted to peel his fingers off , looking up at him as she did .
his expression had glazed over , his eyes were staring and wild and his sword arm was shaking violently .
she suddenly understood .
lord kae controlled him again .
dia wrenched daniels hand from her shoulder and turned , pointing her fathers sword at his chest .
you wont fight your daniel .
he said , but the sound was a horrible conglomeration of kaes and daniels voices .
i will defend myself if i must .
she replied as confidently as she could .
daniel , if you can hear me oh he can hear you , dia .
he can see you .
he will watch you die .
i gave you what you wanted !
she shouted , why kill me now ?
a poor question .
if i let you live , you would attempt to kill me would you not ?
no need to answer .
with that , he came at her , daniels sword hand still shaking .
every second step he made seemed difficult at first , as though one leg forced its way through treacle .
by the time he had forced dia to back up to the far wall , however , his movement seemed unimpeded and the shaking gave way to a steady hand .
dia raised her weapon .
daniel attacked .
she parried and evaded his advances but it was difficult and took all her concentration to avoid his blades rapid movements .
both daniel and kae were notoriously good swordsmen and it showed in the range and speed of kaes attacks .
eventually , inevitably , she left a small opening which was instantly exploited .
her arm was sliced deeply but she continued her defence , knowing she could not win .
even if she could strike daniel down mentally , she was physically unable although he was not in a defensive stance , he had not yet left a single opening for her blade to find its aim .
but a peculiar thing happened then .
daniel stumbled slightly .
then again .
then his sword arm began to shake more violently than it had done previously and his attacks stopped .
there was a glimmer of daniel behind his eyes and the shadow of a smile formed on his lips .
the sword fell from his hand but as the metal clanged on the floor there was a sudden flash of anger on his features and he violently reached for dias throat .
but even as she backed away , daniel had returned and regained enough control to force his arms to his sides and his legs to bend into a sitting position .
he remained cross legged , eyes closed and fists clenched for a time .
then he rose steadily , tore a strip from his bloody shirt and began to tie it around dias wounded arm .
she allowed him to tend her wound but with caution .
are you ... yourself ?
she asked tentatively , though she felt she knew the answer .
daniel laughed his own laugh and looked into dias bright blue eyes .
i am me .
he said , but kae could still resurface .
i can only hold him off .
be wary .
it will however be some time before he will have the strength to take me again .
he smiled then and they embraced for a long while .
regardless of the situation , dia felt safe with daniel close .
we should get to the spire .
dia proclaimed eventually , but daniel beamed at her , the hint of a smirk appeared at the edge of his smile and he said , i may be able to master the control over the spire as kae has .
ive been contemplating the idea for some time now but thought it impossible .
kae proved me wrong and just now i caught a glimpse of his mind , the very glimpse i had hoped for .
the spire is within him in and around his consciousness .
he is both the master of it and slave to it .
it will be dangerous but we have to try and tame the spire as he has if we are to have any hope of stopping him now .
for i also caught sight of a terrible thing in the lords mind .
there is something he seeks .
what the object is i do not know , only that it will act as a lens for his powers , focusing them to devastating effect .
kae wants that object more than anything .
we can not let him find it .
dia was taking in the information as quickly as she was able .
she knew she would follow him to hell and back and had done in the past , but this seemed different .
the extraordinary power would help their cause , there was no doubt about that , but she had never sought after such .
in truth , she did not want it .
on the other hand , she could not fight lord kae and be victorious , powerless as she was to the feats of which he was capable .
it was as simple as daniel had said , they had to try .
chapter 10 falling dia lead daniel to the spire .
her wound gave her some grief but she was determined not to show it as they climbed a final staircase which opened out into a huge , cathedral like space .
the spire twinkled at the far end .
you ready ?
daniel asked with excitement in his voice .
i doubt there will be any going back once we begin the process .
as ready as ill ever be .
she replied , but daniel noticed the look on her face .
you dont want the power ?
i want a chance to defeat kae ...
but i have never sought after power .
you know that .
regardless , i am prepared .
i will do whatever is necessary .
she looked back at daniel with fiery determination in her eyes and he returned the gaze with soothing confidence .
they both approached the spire side by side , passing smooth white objects on small plinths .
dia had no idea of their purpose , but the air surrounding them was icy cold so she moved closer to daniel , appreciating his warmth .
daniel walked ahead and approached the spire first , touching it the moment he was close enough .
dia followed suit and felt the familiar feeling of heat flowing through her body , but she also felt daniels heat too as if already he had an affinity with the spire .
he looked at her , smiling .
then , without warning , the fortress , everything in it , everything outside it the entire world faded into darkness .
they were in the middle .
that was step one .
said daniel then , still grinning but staring beyond dia into the black .
we will have to fall for the following steps .
i have only an idea of how to tame it ... reach out to it with your mind .
concentrate on its energy not its physical image while keeping hold of its physical and metaphorical presence in your psyche .
allow it to have parts of your consciousness but take the spire into the space left behind .
if we succeed we should be able to transport to a location of our choosing .
shall we say your palace ?
dia looked concerned .
everything she had been taught lead her to believe that if she was to let go of the spire , she would fall forever into nothingness .
the idea terrified her and the fear showed on her beautiful face .
daniel placed his hand on her back .
i know we can do this .
he said calmly .
im certain its possible .
ok .
came dias answer finally .
we will meet at my palace .
if i dont succeed , will you care for kant ?
of course .
thank you .
daniel fell away from her and in less than a couple of seconds he had been engulfed by the blackness .
dia had to fight her urges to keep hold of the spire but , after a short mental battle , she overcame them and she too plummeted into the dark .
it took what felt like several minutes before she felt as accustomed as she could be to the feeling of free fall at terminal velocity .
so she reached out to the spire with her mind .
it surprised her to feel its presence almost immediately , but she continued with daniels instructions , allowing it to take parts her consciousness and feeling for the energy of the thing with every fibre of her being .
it was a strange sensation but , for the time being , it was an easy trial .
a few minutes of the bizarre mental process and dia felt the spire within her as daniel had described and knew she had some control over it .
but there was more to gain .
she could feel it .
she allowed the spire to take more of her being and had a little more in return but something was different this time .
it seemed to take something from dia without her allowing it .
then it took more .
she tried to close off her consciousness to it but even more was taken .
she felt herself begin to panic but forced herself not to .
the spire took more still .
summoning all of the mental strength she had , dia reached out , sought the place within the spire where it held pieces of her and pulled some back .
her morale lifted with the small victory and she was able to take more and more until her consciousness , her very being felt whole again .
then the link was severed .
dia became aware she was still falling but knew it did not matter .
she now knew that she simply need not fall in this place .
how had she not realised that before ?
why fall ?
she placed her hands in front of her , feeling an invisible floor .
her knees found the same solid ground and she stood .
it was a little disturbing that the floor was invisible so she made it opaque , as a floor should be .
the darkness brightened , the view of infinity was blocked by shimmering , undulating walls and a ceiling of v shapes .
finally , familiar warmth filled the air and dia had arrived in her palace .
she felt instantly different .
she knew the spire was still within her but where the feeling had been a pleasurable one only seconds ago , it had now made way to something much less desirable .
something corrupt .
running her fingers through her hair she contemplated the power she now possessed .
she still did not want it .
it made her feel somehow tainted but there was no point in regret now she needed to find daniel , and kant too if he was here .
she began calling out for them , but after some time wandering the halls of haene , she found only a note from kant describing the ghan within the palace walls .
they had not harmed him but he had fled all the same , using the room to transport himself to somewhere he could fix his hand .
he did not write a location .
what of daniel ?
did he fail ... ?
she thought fearfully , but she decided that if she had managed to tame the spire , daniel would have .
dia was waiting in the great entrance hall of her palace when daniel shimmered into existence ahead of her .
there was a terrible look of panic on his face which dia had never before seen .
he was very pale and wild eyed , his mouth slowly opening and closing as if gasping for air .
dia stepped towards him but he held up a shaking hand .
she stopped and daniel spoke in a rasping voice , kae ... to ... earth ...
he choked , made a gargling sound then vanished .
dia stared , horror struck at the space for some time before shaking herself into action .
she dazedly replenished her supplies , taking a new gun from the cabinet and quickly stuffing some food into a bag which she threw over her shoulder .
finally , she drank from one of her fountains but allowed herself no rest she was now a match for lord kae and wanted nothing more than to see his existence ended .
closing her eyes , dia focused hard on individual details of her house .
it was much more difficult to alter her surroundings than it had been while in the middle .
dia presumed this was due to the distance between her and the spire .
eventually , concentrating on the spires power flowing through her , she created her front door .
soon after , the brickwork appeared .
then , her windows and unkempt front garden .
she had the gist of it now and the rest of her house , her street and the blue sky faded into existence .
dia stood at the end of her garden path , staring at her house with strange feelings .
she had not thought of her husband or his health .
she had forgotten him .
he had no longer existed to her , but the harsh reality of the situation forced her to confront her memories .
saddened by her guilt , she took a deep breath and walked up the path , deciding the most familiar place on earth to her was as good a place as any to begin her search for daniel and kae .
there was a small , coded key safe around one side of the house from which dia extracted a key and unlocked the back door .
the moment the key had clicked into position she heard movement inside .
her husband ?
she could not be sure so she proceeded with caution , drawing silvaera .
the door swung wide , giving dia a view of her utility room .
there was nobody within it .
she moved her way into the kitchen where the phone still hung off the hook .
she felt a fondness towards her husband as she passed the cupboards post it notes but remained alert and continued into the hall and up the staircase .
the familiar smell of congealed blood and rotting flesh met her nostrils .
she began to fear the worst as she entered her bedroom but the scene which came into view was even more terrible than her thoughts had imagined .
her husbands body lay in two halves on the bed .
the remains of his face were twisted into a look of fear .
the white sheets were heavily stained with his blood and his entrails spilled from his midriff .
judging by the stench , he had been left like this some time ago .
dia regarded the view with horror , but did not allow herself to mourn his death yet .
this was a time for action .
kae would die for this .
a flash of black caught the edge of her vision and she turned to the window in time to catch a bird vanish beyond the edge of the frame .
then she could feel something .
something like the spire but different somehow .
it was a human presence with the spire within them .
kae or daniel ... she thought and before any suspense could build , a shimmering occurred in the air beside the window .
colours swirled in the space there and , slowly , lord kae materialised before her .
he was smiling .
daniel is dead .
he said sharply but dia knew that daniel was living she could feel his connection with the spire , weak though it was .
daniel is not dead .
she replied without feeling .
and that was a poor effort for distraction .
you know i have the same strength you do .
you know i can feel daniels life .
dia looked at her husbands mangled remains and turned back to kae with a fire burning in the pit of her stomach .
he would pay for his sick games .
she would make him .
she shot at him , silvaera at her side , the blades shine , contrasting the bleakness of the scene .
kae would not predict her moves easily .
her mind was focused on the tip of her sword knowing she would not be able to take kae down with just a single strike , she prepared herself for quicker movements , to slowly wear him down .
they met .
dias sword was pushed to the side by kaes bare hand .
this was expected .
dia followed the movement of his body , twisting silvaera to face backwards and forced it rapidly towards kaes hip , changing direction slightly before the sword tip touched his flesh .
kaes attempted parry failed and the one inch deep cut caused him to falter very slightly , giving dia a split second to react .
she missed her chance and her next attack was cut down .
then , before she had time to adjust her position , a force hit her square in the face .
she felt her nose break , her back hit the window , then she was falling to the garden below .
winded on the grass , dia lay , unable to move , watching as kae dropped down from the upstairs window .
she managed to raise her sword arm , silvaera in hand and focused her waning concentration on blocking any following advances .
kaes boot came down on her knee , shattering it .
she cried out with the pain , but used the shock to boost her awareness , allowing her to shift sideways and avoid damage to her other knee cap as kae brought his foot down again .
dia grabbed at the gun in her skirt loop but kae kicked at her hand , sending the gun spinning across the garden .
she used kaes swinging leg to unbalance him and just managed to jab her sword between his ribs as he fell .
disregarding her shattered knee , dia grabbed him and thought of the middle .
she concentrated hard on bringing the middle to them , surrounding them both in the infinite darkness .
her mind emptied of the pain in her broken nose and knee .
she needed to concentrate hard .
what she was about to do would be difficult , if it was possible .
she pictured a room .
a room which needed only one feature to block out ssus ubilis machines .
she knew of an element which could stop the passage of all known information , so constructed the place with such .
the she felt kae attempting to probe her mind by use of the spire but she put up defences and kept him out .
he must not figure out what she was doing .
then the lord slashed dias side before she could react and she began to fall , but managed to control herself then turn standing on her uninjured leg and face kae .
she advanced , not attempting to wound him but to drive him into her creation .
their swords met again and again , dia with the advantage as kae weakened under his chest wound and soon she had cut into his arm and thigh while sustaining no further injuries herself .
she made one final push , slashing kaes calf with the help of a feinting manoeuvre then , kicking him hard in the stomach she forced him backwards into the room .
she followed him in .
the instant dia stepped into the place , a fear of dying rose inside her and she knew her plan would work .
the ubilis machines would not detect a death in here and therefore the body could not be regenerated .
she needed to act quickly .
although kae was already greatly weakened , dia put all her efforts into her next thrust , sending kaes sword to one side as her own slid to his throat .
silvaera found its aim .
the lord choked and gargled on his own blood but remained standing .
dia withdrew her blade .
kae still stood , looking back at her .
something of understanding flashed in his eyes .
he smiled a bloody smile then a sound like a laugh bubbled through his throat .
dia kicked his knee and he fell .
lord kae was dead .
chapter 11 accident and emergency dia had stared for several minutes at the corpse of the lord before feeling satisfied that he was indeed deceased .
a bizarre mix of emotions came over her relief blended with disbelief .
she had ended the life of a terrible man the general of a god and the cause of so much personal strife .
it would be a long time before dia could truly appreciate that kae was gone .
she removed herself from her creation and returned to her earth house where she collected her thoughts , washed the blood from her face and wrapped her damaged knee in tight bandages .
she had to find daniel .
he was still weak , she could feel it .
she also felt him on earth , reasonably close if she was not mistaken .
daniel ?
she attempted to contact his mind .
no reply came .
she tried a few more times , still without receiving a reply .
it was early morning , the sun was yet to rise over the rooftops across the street and nobody was awake besides dia it seemed .
she found herself heading towards the end of her street where there was more chance of seeing someone who may have noticed daniel and kae when they first arrived .
only a couple of cars passed by .
there were no pedestrians .
dia then turned her efforts towards any place kae may have considered a good hiding place .
he would have wanted somewhere close from which daniel could not escape .
he would have wanted to ensure daniel remained weak , but alive he may have needed him as a bargaining chip .
but then again , perhaps kae had attempted to kill daniel and failed .
perhaps he was merely incapacitated and could therefore not reply to dias thoughts .
perhaps she had arrived on earth before the lord had had a chance to finish him off .
the hospital .
she thought and set off sprinting along the roads leading to the town centre .
she arrived , minutes later , at the main entrance to the a e wing .
entering the reception she approached the closest official looking person .
it was a nurse , wearing a confused expression as she looked dia up and down .
fancy dress .
dia made up , quickly .
did a black haired man come here in the last few hours ?
wearing white ?
his name is daniel .
yes that sounds like the man in ward two .
came in at the start of my shift .
down the hall , through the double doors , take a right and its the third door on the left .
thanks .
dia muttered as she had already begun to walk away .
she followed the nurses instructions and , when she came to the third door on the left pushed it open tentatively , hoping she had not raised her own hopes falsely .
she had not .
daniel looked peaceful under the white hospital sheets .
his face had been cleaned , but several butterfly stitched wounds covered his face .
some of the cuts were still bleeding slightly , leaving tiny trails of red down his cheeks and neck .
dia grabbed the chart from the end of his bed and flicked through it .
he did not seem to have sustained any life threatening injuries .
she slid into the chair by the bed and delicately took his hand in hers , feeling herself both physically and mentally relax .
daniel was ok .
waves of relief washed over her and soon the adrenaline from moments ago had given way to melatonin , making the desire for sleep irresistible .
when dia awoke it was to the sound of a voice .
it was a nurse asking her to leave the room while she tended to daniels various wounds .
dia complied sleepily and returned later with two cups of coffee in case daniel was awake .
her eyes met his as she entered the room .
he smiled broadly .
about time you showed up .
he laughed , wincing slightly at the pain it caused , so ... you managed to tame it then ?
yes ...
here i got you a coffee .
dia placed the cup on the side table .
but you first .
what happened ?
daniel shrugged .
kae was there , waiting .
he wanted you , but i saw him first .
i managed to take half of the spires power before i saw him falling towards you in the distance .
i cut off the connection and fell after him ... or maybe i flew .
im not quite sure .
eventually , i caught up with him and we fought for what felt like hours until i began to tire .
he got me in the back with a dagger then brought me here , to earth .
thats when i attempted to contact you but as i made a connection , kae seemed to realise what i was doing and used some kind of torture technique on me .
it was quite unpleasant and i was forced to break the connection .
we fought some more but by this time i was losing a lot of blood and i was exhausted .
he did not seem to weaken he just kept coming at me relentlessly .
then suddenly he was distracted by something .
something i felt too .
it was you .
you were nearby .
i tried to keep his attentions for as long as possible but eventually he caught me with a sharp blow to the neck , i blacked out , then awoke here with a familiar hand in mine .
he grinned again .
dia beamed back .
well my story is much of the same ... dia went on to explain her final battle with kae , realising the relief she was now enjoying with every word she spoke .
she was happy , almost ecstatic as her emotions whirled about inside her , contrasting against the terrible feelings from before she found daniel here , in this hospital bed .
he was safe .
and she was safe too , by his side .
at least for the time being .
chapter 12 a prelude to war a green tinged sun lowered in the yellow evening sky on a planet with no name .
a herd of grazing , goat like animals steadily moved their way across a huge open plain of grasses , occasionally stopping to eat or nip at other members of the herd in a playful manner .
behind the grassland was a forest of golden trees whose leaves sparkled as they danced in the wind .
in stark contrast , towering above the treeline was a sharp edged , ominously dark mountain .
it was an ugly thing looming monstrously over the scene below .
near to the highest of the terrific peaks was something like a man he was unlike any standard for a human being .
he stood with legs which bent outwards at his thighs then inwards again at his heels .
his head was set upon an unusually long neck and his shoulders were low down by his sides .
his face , though relatively normal in general appearance , hosted no expression or emotion upon it .
the mans eyes closed and the world suddenly altered around him .
opening his eyes again he stood amidst thousands of humanoid creatures .
all of which had long brown hair growing all over their bodies some had plaited this in various places creating a weird , bedraggled effect .
the man looked over them and spoke in a voice which boomed deeply over the enormous crowd .
standing before you is ssus .
i am deus .
i am god .
follow me or forfeit your life .
follow me to war .
there was a terrifying , growling cheer from the creatures which shook the earth .
ssus looked over them without even a flicker of feeling crossing his face .
then his eyes closed and he was gone .
the blue gate c.r .
black copyright 2012 c.r .
black smashwords edition smashwords edition , license notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
all characters and events are fictional and a creation of the authors .
this book is dedicated to erik , whose love and encouragement have seen me through many dark days , and to the people of fez , morocco .
chapter 1 wednesday 10 15 am o fez !
in you are gathered all the beauties of the world .
how many are the blessings and riches that you bestow on your inhabitants .
the challenge will tax man 's capacities and imagination to the full . ''
amadou mahtar m'bow b.1921 quickly placing the precious seeds into a pocket of his djellaba , fettah bou chantouf walked out of the herbalists shop and down the narrow street , barely an arms span wide .
turning right onto the tala'a kebira , he merged into the deluge of shouted bargaining by local shoppers , school children , tourists and vendors .
the tala'a kebira , broadway of the medina , was one of two main thoroughfares , running from near the bab bou jeloud , the blue gate , downhill to the oued boukharareb , what passed for a river in this time of drought .
stretching along them cheek to jowl were 10,000 small businesses crammed into this densely populated , one square mile old quarter , the worlds largest car free urban area .
this was fez el bali , old fez , dating back to the late eighth century .
a cacophony of sound , smell and color like no other in the world dazzled the senses of all who entered .
mixing with the shouts of merchants were undertones of neighbors exchanging gossip , tourists exclaiming over exotic sights , school children hurrying to class from a home lunch break , the smell of small street side grills cooking brochettes , brilliant colored hanging berber carpets and kaftans worn by the passing women .
none of this was of the slightest interest to bou chantouf .
what was first and foremost in his mind was to make sure he was not followed by agents of the makhzen the governing elite in morocco surrounding the monarchy .
he particularly wanted to avoid the police , their military stooges , and especially the direction de la securit du territoire dst , the moroccan secret police .
having spent his early years in this , his birthplace , he was intimately familiar with this labyrinth of the over 9,000 streets and alleyways inside its walls .
he had been careful to have more than one safe house easily accessible from several directions , including the rooftops of surrounding buildings and hidden doorways .
he protected his real identity by using a cover name when renting the properties , but most usually he simply found an empty dwelling and had one of his cohorts either pick the lock or break in .
within the small terrorist cell he was only referred to as yattuy , the tall one , '' which offered further protection .
few in this city knew his real name since he had gone to live with his mother 's family in city of zagora , between the middle atlas mountains and sahara desert , when he was a teenager .
zagora , most famous for a sign on its outskirts reading , tombouctou timbuktu 52 days , '' supposedly referring to the time it takes for a camel to walk to the fabled city in the desert .
his height and dark skin betrayed his mother 's tuareg ancestry .
tall and lithe , standing straight and unbent , he carries himself like a warrior , which in fact is exactly how he sees himself .
he always wears the same clothing a white d'jellaba and kufi skull cap .
dark , hooded eyes , and serious , often scowling continence gave any observer second thoughts about entering a casual conversation with him .
walking up the tala'a he passed through the food markets stalls overflowing with baskets of dates , eggs , nuts , all manner of fresh fruit and vegetables .
the meat markets selling everything from live pigeons to sheep heads with unseeing eyes glazed in death .
he noticed one of the growing number of american families calling the medina home watching as the poultry butcher swept up the chosen bird , quickly blessing it before slitting its throat and placing it head down in a metal funnel to bleed .
in short order the skinned chicken is placed , still warm from life , into a plastic bag .
fettah did not smile at the young blonde haired boy begging to feed the chicken heads to the ubiquitous cats hanging around the meat and fish shops .
once his plans were carried out , it would be increasingly difficult for non muslims to live in his country .
he believed in the purity of his religion and like most fundamentalists believed his idea of islam was the only true version .
fiercely religious , hating anyone or anything that diluted the promises of the prophet muhammad , peace and blessings be unto him , bou chantouf was as committed to his cause as any suicide bomber .
he did not believe that the quran was a living document , pliant to a changing world condition .
islam was an immutable force to fettah bou chantouf , and the world would have to adjust to its sublime teachings as it was written .
he was resolute in the belief that allowing the coexistence of other religions in his cherished morocco was an abomination not to be tolerated .
hurrying along the derb douh leading from the bab bou jeloud with its atm 's and fashionable sidewalk cafes and restaurants , he noticed a pretty , though scandalously dressed young moroccan woman .
she sits without hijab , a head covering , and wearing what he considers is an immodestly short skirt , drinking nus nus , milky coffee , with a young man .
while still the domain of the moroccan male , increasing numbers of young moroccan women were also now joining them at the cafes .
she is the evil , spoiled , and corrupt westernized woman .
her day will come too , '' bou chantouf said to himself , and all those who would bring the evils of western culture into morocco '' .
he continued onward , passing in front of the continental tourist hotel , barely noticing a load of western tourists disgorging from a green tourist bus .
neither did he pay much attention to the coffee shops crowded with men sipping their cups , smoking their cigarettes , talking politics and the upcoming royal visit .
he did , however , notice a seated figure dressed in the cotton djellaba over an obvious blue uniform shirt and striped trousers of the la sret nationale , the national police force .
walking on he quickly found the man he was looking for .
leaning into the cab window , he surreptitiously dropped the package into the cab drivers waiting hands , and asked , when will it be ready ? ''
the driver , hasan , one of a very small group of trusted cell members replied , it will be ready in time , in'shallah , '' god willing replied hasan gruffly .
just be sure that the chemist knows that he will be amply rewarded when he is finished . ''
fettah seemed almost to hiss like a snake when he talked .
a brooding , muscular man whose thick , dropping eyelids conceal any trace of warmth or humanity , hasan was a very useful cell member .
not only does he own a car , but with the cover of a taxi he could be seen in many areas without causing suspicion .
no one noticed an ever present red petit taxi since all petit taxis in fez were identically painted red fiat uno 's .
hasan possesses utter ruthlessness and his particular ability to quickly break the neck of any one carelessly crossing his path or deemed expendable by fettah .
he was n't an intelligent thug , but a useful thug nonetheless .
turning , fettah casually scanned the passing crowds with humorless eyes before walking on downhill towards a safe house on the ras cherratene .
a warm breeze carried the heady scent of this ancient quarter on its wings .
bou chantouf , residents , tourists and children all deftly step out of the way at the call balak , balak '' , '' lookout ! ''
from the driver of a passing string of donkeys delivering bags of cement to some building site within the medina .
making his way to the safe house , he climbed a neighboring stairway leading to the rooftop .
ducking under one of many clotheslines , he stepped around an ever present satellite dish puncturing the sky of this ancient city before climbing over a short wall .
reaching under a roof tile he retrieved a hidden key unlocking a rooftop door and allowing him to gain entry into the safe house .
it had the musty , closed up smell of someplace that had n't been lived in for a long time .
here he would finish making preparations , taking pains that everything would be perfect in time for the coming royal visit .
later , at the call of the muezzin , he would go to a mosque to pray for allah 's blessings on his cause .
he thought he might go to the andalusian section of the medina , maybe the gzira or makhfiya neighborhood , which would mean a walk , but that would all right .
after all , he had almost 300 mosques to choose from inside the medina .
it would only make it more difficult if anyone was either trying to follow him or tie him to one particular neighborhood .
one could never be too careful at this point in the game , and security forces reportedly had informants everywhere .
chapter 2 wednesday 10 18 am instruction in youth is like engraving in stone . ''
moroccan proverb eian noisily begged to throw the head of the slaughtered chicken to the waiting black and white cat .
getting his way , he deftly tossed the head to the mewing cat , setting off a squall of hissing among the assembled street cats .
christopher , out on a shopping trip to gather food for tonights dinner , smiled down at his son thriving here in morocco , and especially in the medina .
moroccan culture embraced young children , whether native or not , and it was unusual for children to pass by older adults without being patted or kissed on the head .
eian quickly discovered that oftentimes shop owners would also bestow small gifts of sweets or a toy .
divorce had been hard on both christopher and eian .
after seven years of marriage , his wife had suddenly decided that she did n't want to be married to him any longer and did not want the burden of a young child either .
christopher was left in the lurch before finally accepting a years travel magazine assignment to morocco , which would allow him to take his young son with him .
he had found that both he and eian easily settled into life here in fez , first finding a family willing to provide a home stay for cultural immersion .
days and weeks quickly turned into months before stumbling upon a riad , a moroccan version of a bed and breakfast with a garden attached , for lease .
that had been 3 years ago , though sometimes it seemed like a lifetime .
christopher took the day in , knowing that two days hence he would take his son as part of a group to represent the community to meet the king on his visit to fez to bestow blessings on the festival day of moulay idriss ii , founder and patron saint of the city .
the main event , a raucous procession which began outside the blue gate before winding its way along the tala'a saghira to the shrine at the heart of the medina .
being culturally curious , he was quite content living here in fez , the soul of morocco .
he could also run his own small guesthouse .
he loved the unique blend of the ancient , modern and exotic around every corner the fact that his home was built over 200 years ago and was still considered new that the pace of life , at least in the medina , was on a slower , more human scale than outside its protecting walls that his child seemed truly happy .
he also loved the people he was becoming more and more familiar with .
passing by a dar , a small guesthouse like his own , but without a garden , he exchanged greetings with the owner .
as salam alaykum '' called out the owner , kamal , in greeting .
wa alaykum e salam '' replied christopher .
no time to chat today .
eian is on a mission to get home and play with a new toy he received in the mail from his grandmother .
bislema , goodbye . ''
he smiled as eian continued running down the narrow , cracked and dusty street to the corner where the old beggar woman always sat , eyeing especially visiting western tourists .
he did feel sorry for elderly widows , who often had to resort to begging , especially if there were no children to take them in , so he dropped a small coin in her lap as he walked by and received her blessing and thanks .
passing onwards he met a group of american tourists dutifully following behind their guide towards either a carpet shop or the tanneries .
he wondered if they knew that morocco was the first nation to recognize the fledgling united states in 1777 or that the moroccan american treaty of friendship was the us 's oldest unbroken treaty .
he seriously doubted it .
smirking , he looked at the group tour guide who was paid a fee of up to 30 to bring them to specific shops and who always guaranteed that this was the place where you could get the best quality at the lowest price .
passing through a portal separating neighborhoods , they continued on towards the tala'a saghira with its many small shops selling clothing , shoes , luggage , handbags , antiques both old and freshly created carpets , souvenirs , videos , pottery , musical instruments a polyglot of goods being browsed by the bargaining crowds .
that was another thing he found enjoyable about life in the medina .
with few exceptions , all purchases for goods were completed only after serious bargaining takes place between the buyer and the seller .
if you did n't bargain it is often considered an insult .
if you set too hard bargain then you may be called a berber , which meant either you were very good at bargaining and was a compliment or that you were penurious and was an insult .
such were the vagaries of language and custom !
at the corner of derb el horra , they stop to sample a bowl of snail soup , rich with the earthy taste of freshly cooked snails .
eian thought the snails were simply interesting , but was really waiting for the olive seller down the street where he could sample to his heart 's delight .
moving out of the way as a donkey passed delivering clinking cases of coke , they continue on down the slope where corbeled buildings seem to reach out to touch them from above .
in several places the buildings passes over their heads , one side connecting with the other , punctuated by unseen eyes , now rare traditional windows on the upper stories called rawashin , where women could look out onto the streets below unobserved .
aromas assailed their nostrils .
from cooking food , animal dung , fresh mint at a hundred different vendors , unwashed bodies , sandalwood or benzoin gum incense , neighborhood bakeries and the always present dust that swirled through the air at this time of the year .
no longer seen were the yellow blossoms of the agave plants that painted the distant hillsides yellow in mid summer .
september was the end of the dry period , when the surrounding hillsides were at their brownest and the only colors were the dyed sheep and goat hides , laid out on the ground to dry in the sunshine .
winds often whipped dust from as far away as the sahara to the south and east .
soon he knew cooling rains would again fall on his adopted city , and bring with them ultimately the coming of the new year .
as he entered the courtyard to his home , he noticed fatima , the local girl who cooks and helps clean .
now he would be able to leave eian with her and go back and wander the streets for a while , practicing his arabic and soaking in the local flavor .
chapter 3 wednesday 10 22 am a narrow place is real big to the narrow minded . ''
moroccan proverb salima sat talking with her brother akmed as the tall , bearded man walked glaringly past their table .
she knew by the way he was looking at her that he was mentally disapproving of her dress her lack of head covering and , though modest by western standards , mid calf skirt .
she puts him down to a small group of islamists that live in the medina who wanted morocco to be a strict islamic republic on the model of saudi arabia , where modern european or american fashions , music and other cultural influences were banned .
he was soon followed by an american with his young son , a man that she knew slightly through her family and who lived in the medina .
handsome , she thought , with a slight smile on her face , but even the thought of dating such a man would be impossible because of the religious differences , no matter how outwardly acceptable he might be .
just the thought of marrying outside her faith would bring disgrace to her family as well as being outside the tenets of islamic law .
salima benharoun was a striking 35 year old woman .
with pale skin , blue eyes and almost blonde hair , she stood out against her darker haired and complexioned moroccan sisters .
she also was as yet , unmarried .
she knows that she drew appreciative looks from most passing men , the isolated fundamentalist excluded .
it was just that she was very picky and no one she had been introduced to had met either her or her familys expectations .
like the majority of young , educated urban women in morocco today , salima has one foot firmly planted in the future and another in the traditional past .
she came from a prosperous old fasi merchant family that followed traditional sunni islam , as did almost all moroccans .
her father was well respected in the medina , both living and having business ventures there for most of his life , even though he now lived in modern apartments in the ville nouvelle , the newest part of fez built by the french after 1916 .
he still made daily trips to sit outside the families ' carpet and antiquities shops on the tala'a kebira .
the old family home now housed a small but luxurious guesthouse near batha another family enterprise .
salima 's berber mother and her father had met while he was buying carpets in the rif mountains of northern morocco .
her features bore those physical traits of her father , easily passing for a northern european , unlike her brothers and sisters who resemble her darker , rounder faced mother .
she did , however , have her mother 's joie de vivre and laughing eyes , and was encouraged , within limits , to experience the world around her .
after finishing high school she had attended the university sidi mohamed majoring in accounting .
now she was part owner , along with her family , of an accounting office that was located in the medina and she was proud of its growing clientele .
salima thought of some of her clients , knowing outsiders would be surprised at the splendor of the homes hidden behind walls and unassuming doorways the cooling fountains , marvelous tile and carved plaster work .
salima eagerly awaited the promised coming government reforms sweeping the arab world at this time .
while progressive compared to virtually any other islamic country , morocco was still stifling to one such as salima .
she loved her country and believed that democratic liberalization was the only answer to its problems .
some of the more conservative religious political groups in morocco wanted to fence the country off from the rest of the world and keep any western influences from entering , turning the clock back to a time that never really was .
morocco had always been influenced by forces from across the mediterranean sea and was a crossroads between europe and africa .
until 1912 morocco had never suffered foreign domination , and its mountainous interior was as closed to foreigners as any hermit kingdom .
phoenician coastal traders as early as the sixth century bc , followed by romans , had brought their culture into the northern parts of morocco and left behind ruins of great cities , most visibly at volubilis , as well as both judaism and christianity .
when the romans left , successive waves of vandals , visigoths and finally the byzantine empire quickly followed .
morocco then resisted outside domination until the twentieth century .
from 1912 until 1956 when modern morocco was established , it was under a french and a spanish protectorate .
today , waves of european tourists thronged into the country to enjoy a cheap and exotic vacation in the sun .
salima and her younger brother laughed at several attempts to keep outside musicians from coming into the country to play at concerts , not just british great sir elton john , but also various muslim female singers from lebanon .
thankfully those attempts had been met with little support and young moroccans were free to listen to whatever music they chose , but the threat of the conservative religious groups was a constant reminder of what was at stake .
her discussion completed , salima finished her second coffee of the day , kissed her brother goodbye and walked back to her office .
listening to the sounds of school children returning to their classrooms after going home for lunch always reminded her that she was unmarried and childless .
what would the future hold for these eager children ?
for her ?
would the king relinquish absolute control over most of the moroccan government , allow true democracy and bow to the wishes of reformers ?
that was certainly her hope and the only safe path to the future .
would a sudden and violent uprising force the king from the throne and throw her country into chaos , like so many other north african and middle eastern nations ?
even worse , would the king perhaps be assassinated by some mad group of terrorists ?
fundamentalists eager to establish their '' vision of utopia all traces of modernity suppressed after so much progress had been made ?
that was a future too grim for her to contemplate .
already an attempt had been made on the king 's life at the annual be'ya , or allegiance ceremony .
hundreds of regional representatives came to bow to the king , seated on horseback , and chant may god bless the life of my master , '' renewing their vows of obedience to the monarch .
luckily , the attempted assassination by a gun wielding terrorist was unsuccessful , but it was a reminder to this , the arab world 's longest ruling dynasty of the precariousness of rule .
chapter 4 wednesday 10 27 am do not correct with a strike that which can be taught with a kiss . ''
moroccan proverb though drinking sweetened mint tea is most often associated with morocco , coffee is equally as important , and drinking a small cup of espresso can take an hour if there is business to be conducted .
chief inspector ayrad afellay of the surete nationale du maroc or national police force sipped his coffee , puffing on his ever present cigarette and frowned as he read through the terrorist report for the fourth time .
this was definitely not good news and was sure to further irritate his ulcer .
he had just gotten off the phone with his commander and the conversation had not been pleasant .
according to very reliable sources within the dst , the moroccan secret police , a suspected terrorist attack was planned on his majesty the king while visiting fez during the upcoming festival .
his superior , all pencil mustache , french made suits and italian loafers , came from rabat , and like many higher ups in the sret tended to look down on anyone not from the capital city .
he also looked down on those he considered socially or intellectually inferior .
normally he would see chief inspector afellay as a person beneath his station .
afellay was a berber , a group that still suffered from some degree of discrimination .
moreover , he had been raised in fez el j'did , called new fez , though in fact it was almost a thousand years old .
youngest son of a municipal administrator and a university professor of classical literature , afellay had been exposed to moderate thinking and the best literature of both the western as well as the islamic world .
profiting from a natural affinity to study , he won a scholarship to mohammed v university in rabat and earned a degree in public administration .
he worked his way up to the rank of chief inspector through dint of hard work , his own intelligence and a bit of luck .
having grown up near the mellah , the old jewish quarter which lay close to the walls of the medina and hard by a royal palace of the king , afellay had a natural feel for the people in this part of the city .
if anyone could get the needed information , it was he .
he knew that for the next 48 hours he must use all of his skills to keep the king safe .
taking a small notebook out of the pocket of the light cotton djellaba covering his uniform , he quickly went down the list of agents who would be best in and around the medina .
come down too hard and the people would clam up and the flow of all information would stop .
he knew that while the king was popular with the vast majority of people , there was a small and dangerous minority that wanted the government to fall .
the king , aided by a powerful propaganda machine , chaired cabinet meetings and controlled the judiciary , religious affairs and the army .
he could also dissolve parliament if it proposed laws that did not please him .
it was best to tread gently , at least for the present .
morocco was not yet at a juncture where the people would rise up against their leaders and the government .
afellay shuddered to think of a situation like in iraq or afghanistan where it was simply all against all '' and outside forces such as the united states or nato only contributed to the destruction .
morocco , for the very first time had experienced protests where the king was openly criticized and government forces did n't open fire .
the monarchy 's response so far had been to promise change and write a new constitution .
the king continued to steer the country in a decidedly pro western direction even though general public opinion in the country and the arab world in general was anti american , though not violently so .
this was something islamists tended to emphasize .
islamists , like the religion of islam in general , were a varied lot .
extremists , salafis , were a very tiny minority of the world 's 1.9 billion muslims .
they embraced violent jihad against civilians and believed this was an allowable demonstration of islam .
he knew that salafis said disparaging things about far more moderate islamist groups while the moderates wrote the hard core salafis off as wild eyed , anti democratic , anti feminists who could n't even print a veiled woman 's face on a poster .
further , salafist 's showed a distinct dislike of all sufi movements , and sufism was to a large degree supported in morocco .
afellay had no delusions about his life long support of the makhzen .
it was a necessity in his chosen profession , and he was a firm believer in slow reform with emphasis on the slow .
like the vast majority of police personnel the world over , afellay was conservative in his outlook and hardly about to rock the boat .
the term gentle revolution '' had been coined to describe morocco 's efforts to sidestep the revolutionary fervor that was sweeping the arab world .
it is his duty to see that reforms maintained order , kept the elite in power while at the same time assuaging the population .
the dog eared pages of history were re visited yet once again .
morocco at its heart was still a struggling , poor country with a fragile economic fabric .
thinking about the current political situation in his country , afellay remembered an old moroccan saying that applied to his situation better a handful of dried dates and content with that than to own the gate of peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel . ''
change would come to morocco , but in'shallah it would come slowly and peacefully .
lighting yet another cigarette he started jotting down his list of agents .
within the hour they would start scouring the medina for any signs of terrorists .
punching the speed dial on his mobile phone , he read off the list to his second and quickly gave orders .
the clock was now running .
chapter 5 wednesday 3 50 p.m. fire purges everything . ''
berber saying inside the house bou chantouf walked quickly down the stairs to the sparsely furnished main room where he allowed himself to think back to when he first took up the islamist cause .
his father , co owner of one of hundreds of tiny tailor shops in the medina , had died when he was 12 .
bou chantouf 's older brother was loosely associated with de fez , '' a terrorist cell that worked out of fez in the mid 1990 's and who pulled off the august 1994 shooting attack on the atlas asni hotel in marrakech that left two spanish tourists dead .
even though he was not directly involved , his brother died during interrogation by moroccan security agents , the hated dst .
revenge was a powerful motivator and he decided then to devote his life to the overthrow of the monarchy and the ruling establishment .
today , fifteen years later , fettah bou chantouf , is now among the zealous leadership of the extremist group as salfiya jihadiya magreb , a loose arrangement made up of a cluster of independent cells .
originally established to oppose government support for the us led coalition against iraq , it now actively promoted overthrow of the present government .
most often such groups formed on the margins of society where people felt ill at ease with the urban middle class and the trimmings of modern society .
as salfiya magreb was no exception , and bou chantouf was a prime example .
he closely identified with the takfari ideology , which held he and his group could accuse muslims of apostasy or being an infidel and thus excommunicated in the eyes of the muslim community .
like many extremists , bou chantouf viewed the moroccan regime as an apostate government , ripe for overthrow .
there was too much crushing poverty here in a country where the gap between rich and poor was wide and all too apparent far too much unemployment , especially of educated young men too many living in sub standard housing , most prominently in and around the major cities .
all of this while members of the makhzen , the ruling elite , lived in luxury and open corruption .
he was equally disdainful of the moderate islamist political groups such as the justice and development party , which sought to make changes in the existing moroccan government through peaceful , democratic methods , the so called gentle revolution '' .
what was needed to his way of thinking was to wipe clear the diluting forces of the west and re make his country .
he believed that the very idea of democratic elections was un islamic and that women should be segregated from men in public .
yes , there were many changes needed in the new morocco after this week was finished .
bou chantouf 's plan was both simple and complex .
the package he delivered to hasan at the taxi stand contained seeds of ricinus communis , in arabic khirwa ' and known in the west as the castor bean plant .
following fairly simple chromatographic techniques , the poison ricin was easily made by anyone with an elemental knowledge of chemistry .
ricin was virtually undetectable and fit perfectly into his plan .
fettah had read that in the 1970s , bulgarian secret agents reportedly used a ricin capsule injected into the leg of a dissident , which proved fatal .
more difficult was condensing the poison down to such a level that a small amount injected into the blood stream assured death in an extremely short period of time .
using the talents of an unemployed and disillusioned university graduate , the problem was finally overcome .
harder still was creating a dart that would be both accurate when fired from the high powered compressed air rifle , but would have all the outward appearances of a hornet sting .
at last , after a long and difficult period of trial and error , the perfect dart was created .
when fired into a subjects neck it delivered a massive dose of the condensed poison into the blood stream .
to test the weapon and delivery system , he had chosen a westerner who collapsed and died within minutes of being struck by the dart .
news reports stated simply that an elderly german tourist had collapsed and died after receiving a hornet sting .
nothing suspicious was noted .
fettah then practiced for days with the special air gun provided fitted into what looked like a traditional musical horn seen at festivals , secretly constructed in a local metal shop by another cell member .
finally he was ready , sure that he would be able to strike his target and thus complete his part of the planned revolution , .
the king would die from an apparently innocent insect sting , and his death would be the will of allah . ''
once word was spread of the king 's death , other cells around the country were set to carry out attacks against specific targets foreign cultural missions , television stations , cafe 's and hotels that attracted foreign visitors , cinemas , certain foreign embassies and business ventures owned by the makhzen .
other groups were poised to use recently acquired shoulder fired missiles from libya against the moroccan military until such time as they were brought into the fold .
he knew that the common people could always be brought to the bidding of the leaders if given the proper inducements .
at the muezzin 's cry , fettah glanced at his watch and noted the time .
it was 4 05 pm , and his mind raced ahead two days hence to when his plan would be put into effect .
he rose , left the apartment and walked purposefully towards the distant mosque .
chapter 6 wednesday 4 38 p.m. angels bend down their wings to a seeker of knowledge . ''
moroccan proverb driven by a compulsive curiosity , christopher continued down the narrow street , twisting first one direction then another .
if he got lost in this warren of narrow streets , some only two feet wide , so much the better .
that was when you truly discovered the wonders of fez .
a place soaked in history and that was what urged the writer in him onward .
some people center their lives on status or money , community or service to god .
christopher 's center was learning .
leo africanus , the early sixteenth century writer wrote this about fez a world it is to see , how large , how populous , how well fortified and walled this city is . ''
christopher had to agree completely with africanus , also known as al wazzan az zayyati al fassi .
visiting fez , africanus assured that a man may both satisfy his eyes , and solace his mind .
fez deserves to be called a paradise . ''
the tan buildings of the medina spread out before him as he gazed towards the green tile roof of al karouine mosque .
once again he was struck by the sights unfolding before him the juxtaposition of satellite dishes projecting from virtually every rooftop beaming in the modern world and the ancient call to prayer of the muezzins jet airplanes overhead and burros delivering goods to stores within the medina sending emails around the world from a cyber cafe while outside a man is loading trash bags onto a donkey for transport women wearing the black hijab and veil along with sunglasses and baseball caps .
this was his world now this was the fez medina .
finally reaching the bottom of the hill he understood the belief that fez el bali was one of the most complex cities in the world , making it nearly impossible for visitors to find their own way around .
walking on , he bent under the wooden beam across the street , placed so that people would bow modestly before getting close to the mosque .
he stood looking into al karaouine , which was , according to his well thumbed copy of the guinness book of world records , the worlds oldest university , founded in 859 .
he mused over the fact that this mosque and the attached institution of higher learning were founded by a woman , wondering if those in the islamist movement who wanted to keep women in a subservient role were aware of this .
he wished he could enter the door to marvel at its classic design , capable of holding more than 20,000 worshipers and at one time the largest mosque in north africa .
non muslims were prohibited from entering moroccan mosques , a hold over from the days when the french had decreed that non christians were prohibited from entering their churches and cathedrals .
moroccans soon prohibited non muslims from entering their mosques as a way of rebelling against their colonizers and it remained that way today .
sounds were especially important in fully experiencing life here in the medina .
calls to prayer five times a day over loudspeakers the formalities of greetings heard on the streets the chatter of children going to and from school shop keepers calling out to tourists , almost always correctly guessing their nationality from their appearance .
the buzz of motorbikes , like angry wasps and the gentle clip clop of passing burros on centuries old cobblestones worn smooth by generations of trotting feet , even the sounds of chirping birds over a garden wall in an area of the city with few visible trees .
this is what christopher wanted to bring to his audience , the readers for his upcoming book .
turning , he heard the polyphonic sounds of the call for prayer , starting high in the minaret of the mosque and soon picked up by other mosques in the medina , a tradition going back centuries .
it was said that in the minaret of the al karaouine mosque there was a special room , the dar al muwaqqit , where the times of daily prayer were established for the city .
wandering aimlessly now past the religious shops clustered around the periphery of the mosque , christopher crossed over into the andalusian section of the medina .
this was the very oldest part of the medina .
it is an area often over looked , yet it was just as fascinating as the more touristic sites in the karaouine section to the west .
like all neighborhoods in the medina , those in the andalusian section each contained a mosque , a school , a fountain , a communal bakery and a hammam or public bathhouse .
tradition said that people living in the medina could spend their entire lives without ever going outside its embracing walls !
street foods were one of christopher 's passions .
inheriting an iron stomach and sense of adventure from his father , he prided himself on at least trying most available dishes , though he did admit that such things as sheep heads were a bit much .
coming upon a small street vendor grilling kebabs , he quickly purchased one along with khobz , flattened moroccan bread .
he knew the bread came from the bakery around the corner and wished that he could find some chebakia there , those wonderful deep fried sweet pastries so plentiful during the month of ramadan , but knew that he would have to wait .
having satisfied his craving for some nourishment , he continued on up the rue seffah to the andalusian mosque , only two years newer than the karaouine mosque across the river .
standing in front of its magnificent wooden doors , he marveled again at the elaborate cedar woodcarvings of the eaves .
so much to see and experience , '' christopher muttered to no one in particular .
passing by the medersa sahrij , he turned down el adoua , a street he had not taken before .
intending to head back home , he stopped momentarily in front of a small , plain neighborhood mosque .
he was able to look inside through the open doors just as the men in attendance were coming out from early evening prayers .
christopher was intent on observing the green zellij tiled interior when he noticed a tall man with a scowling face headed in his direction .
not wanting a confrontation , he quickly stepped in behind an older worshipper who was heading his direction .
he held his breath .
being beyond his neighborhood comfort zone , though his knowledge of arabic was sufficient to carry on conversations with friendly shopkeepers , it was another thing to get into an argument with an angry islamic fundamentalist , one of the bearded ones '' .
he was able to avoid an ugly scene , though he did hear the tall man in the white djellaba telling him to get out of the medina '' before he fades into the distance .
ahead of him , the old man slowly turned and said , please forgive him , he has no manners and is n't a real muslim . ''
christopher took the older mans hand and simply said , shokran bzzaf mashi moshkil , '' thanks a lot , it 's not a problem , '' before continuing on to his home .
continuing towards home , he passed by one of the most photographed sights in all of fez , the chouara tanneries , which could be smelt long before they were reached .
established in the 1300s , their limestone pits were filled with a pungent mixture of pigeon droppings , pomegranate peels and the cow urine used to tan the leather .
young men stand thigh deep in those and other pits tanning or dying the famous leather with vegetable dyes using methods that have not changed in a thousand years .
at least he did n't live nearby , where the unpleasant smell wafts in the gently blowing breeze adding another complex layer to the zest of the city .
chapter 7 wednesday 5 18 p.m. god pardons the ignorant . ''
berber proverb fettah bou chantouf walked out of the small mosque and directly into the tall westerner standing and staring into the interior .
at first bou chantouf thought he might be a police agent before deciding he was just another tourist .
strange , he seemed to recognize the face and billed cap , but then no , just like so many others who all looked alike .
seer f'halek , '' go away , '' he shouted angrily at the staring foreigner , get out of the medina . ''
he knew tourism was an important source of income for morocco , with over 10 million visitors in the past year , but he also knows with european and american tourists comes western culture .
eventually this culture would inundate his country and bury its identity just as it had done in so many other places in the world .
this was the true danger of the west , and it could n't be allowed to continue .
the coming revolution would excoriate all those in its way .
turning down a side street , fettah took a back way to the safe house .
he did n't think he had been noticed , but he wanted to make sure .
this way he could enter from the building next door , crossing the roof tops .
he would once again mentally go through the planned distraction and the act of shooting the dart at the king while making sure their escape route was decided .
tonight , the package would arrive with hasan , and together they would go over every part of the plan to make certain that nothing was left to chance .
there was now less than 48 hours until the beginning of the revolution .
chapter 8 wednesday 5 43 p.m. a wise woman has much to say , yet remains silent . ''
moroccan proverb salima looked up as the door to her office opened , smiling broadly as chief inspector ayrad afellay greeted her .
she often thought of him as almost another uncle .
salama malakum , salima .
hello ! ''
la bes ? ''
la bes , yes , i am fine , '' replied salima , smiling .
and the rest of your family , your father ? ''
they are well also , thankfully .
have you heard lately from idus ? ''
salima and idus , afellay 's son , had attended high school and college together and had been friends , not unusual since both have berber blood .
yes , al hamdu lillah , he is fine and continuing with his architectural work in casablanca . ''
afellay had once hoped that a romance might develop between the two , but that was not to be and they remained good friends and nothing more .
deciding to follow her lead , he sat in the chair opposite the desk .
looking around he took in various accoutrements of a modern office computer , fax machine , cordless phone , locking file cabinets , as well as other , more traditional touches .
on the floor is a nice antique zemmour berber rug from the middle atlas .
hanging on the wall behind her chair is a very old purple silk kaftan in a glass frame .
other interesting pieces are artfully scattered around the room .
he knows that all of these come from one of the families other businesses , an antiquities shop on the tala'a kebira .
exhaling smoke through his lips , afellay began salima , i am coming to you because i know you and your family and i trust you because you are idus ' friend .
a situation has developed and since your family has many ears in the medina , i was hoping you could be of help . ''
yes , '' salima slowly replied .
she knows that the chief inspector often works with the secret police , but that was all she knew and she is not too sure she wanted to know any more or have her family involved more deeply .
i would like to know if anyone has heard of talk of disturbances , especially any involving the king when he visits here friday for the festival .
maybe your family has picked up some tidbits on the street .
i would go directly to your father , but since i am fairly well known in the medina i do n't want to bring any undue attention on to him .
slipping into your office here is a bit different from stopping to chat on the tala'a kebira . ''
as he was saying this he noticed a slight catch , barely noticeable , in salima 's face .
responding quickly , salima said , i have not heard of anything , no , but i will pass your request along to my family and see if they have heard of anything . ''
a heavy silence hung for two heartbeats .
this was a very well known and respected family within the medina and he knows that he was treading on thin ice .
after a few moments of small talk , mostly about idus and his architectural work , afellay rose , kissed salima on both cheeks and wished her goodbye .
shukran , salima .
thank you !
i knew i could count on you .
please give my regards to your family .
i will be in touch with you again soon . ''
beslama '' replied salima .
goodbye ! ''
after afellay left salima sat quietly before going to the front door , locking it .
she returned to her desk for a moment , collecting her thoughts before picking up her mobile phone and punching in a number .
akmed ?
it 's salima .
i need to talk to you quickly my brother .
not over the phone , come by the office and we 'll maybe go for a walk . ''
chief inspector afellay 's visit has turned a completely different light on friday 's festival and the royal couple 's visit to fez .
chapter 9 wednesday 6 02 p.m. boil the water and the scum will rise to the top . ''
berber proverb chief inspector afellay had sent his investigators to all the usual spots and all their usual sources .
they flooded the barbershops and beauty parlors , which are scattered about the medina like dandelions across a summer lawn .
the many tailoring shops sprouted in even greater numbers as well as neighborhood hanoot convenience stores over 200 public bath houses the list went on and on , and all had to be checked for the smallest scrap of information .
afellay chuckled , thinking of the one honest statement in the famous 1942 movie casablanca .
major louis renault says , round up the usual suspects , '' followed by realizing the importance of the case , my men are rounding up twice the usual number of suspects . ''
they got that part true at least , thinks the inspector , if nothing else .
so many american tourists came to casablanca and expected humphrey bogart and ingrid bergman to walk around the corner .
he hated to tell them that casa was really just another big , not too picturesque industrial city filled with too many people trying to get by as best they could .
the usual suspects were rounded up .
known fundamentalist agitators , anti monarchy radicals and general trouble makers were combed off the streets by the hundreds , but as yet there were no real leads into what organization or individual hoped to bring off the attack on the king .
this is not how chief inspector ayrad afellay of the sret nationale wanted to end his career and he vowed to do whatever was necessary to bring this case to a successful conclusion and wipe out a threat to the monarch and the kingdom of morocco .
lighting another cigarette , he tossed the now empty pack of marlboro 's away and stepped around a meter deep hole and pile of ancient cobbles meant to repair yet another water or sewer line in the crumbling infrastructure .
he continued slowly on through the andalusian section .
as he walked he mentally went over the few pieces of information that were available .
knowledge had come from a known radical , who , under what was euphemistically called enhanced '' interrogation , revealed to secret police questioners that an attempt was going to be made on the monarch 's life during his upcoming visit to fez .
further questioning had made it known that the attack would be carried out by a locally based terrorist cell and would use a weapon only targeting the king .
that the terrorists were members of a small cell based in the fez medina associated with the fundamentalist group as salfiya magreb was no surprise .
the country was plagued by so called lone wolf '' attacks made by small cells .
the city also had a long history of birthing revolutionary movements .
he knew that during the colonial period of his childhood , fez was a center of anti french rebellion .
given the right set of circumstances it could again be the center of rebellion .
could the weapon referred to be one of the reported shoulder fired missiles that disappeared from libya following the downfall of gaddafi ?
what about poison gas ?
a suicide bomber might get close enough before detonating his explosives , but then none of those methods would strike only the king .
what if it was a woman ?
and how could they only target the king ?
a long range sniper rifle was a possibility , maybe someone who received training and experience in iraq or afghanistan .
have someone in the office check on any known returning mujahideen fighters and make sure the roof tops were covered .
little enough to go on with weeks to develop leads .
now , less than two days separated him from disaster unless something broke .
pulling his mobile phone from a pocket , he called and requested that his car meet him at the bab el khoukha .
while awaiting the cars arrival he noticed the familiar red hand of fatima '' sign seen all over morocco expressing in english , french and arabic languages say no to terrorism '' and keep out of my country . ''
ayrad afellay knew that 99 of moroccans believed in that sign , but it only takes one or two to change placidity to madness and terror .
it was his job to see that this did not happen .
as he waited he remembered hearing an old jewish saying in his childhood man plans and god laughs . ''
3 chapter 10 wednesday 6 32 p.m. better to be watched by a wild animal than a nosy man . ''
moroccan proverb opening the door and admitting akmed into her now closed office , salima looked askance at her brother .
she had already cancelled one appointment with a client in order to be able to devote full attention to what was now a potential problem .
akmed , there is a problem with friday 's plans '' said salima .
what problem ? ''
asked akmed , concern showing on his face for the first time .
chief inspector afellay visited me earlier and asked if any of the family had heard about any disturbances planned for friday 's visit by the king .
do you think they know ? ''
lla ! ''
says akmed emphatically no !
there is no way the police could know , only five of us are involved in the actual work .
i 'm sure that it is still a secret .
it must be something else , maybe something religious since the festival revolves around the sufi groups . ''
remember little brother , this is not just the gendarmerie that we are talking about it is also the dst , and they do not play games . ''
dst or gendarmerie , it is all the same and we have taken every precaution .
the event will come off exactly as planned , at the royal reviewing stands with all of the tv cameras rolling .
the movement will continue to press for a parliamentary monarchy , freedom , social justice and dignity . ''
these were the goals of the february 20 movement , m20f for short , of which her younger brother , and herself to a lessor extent , were associated .
most young moroccans had not involved themselves in politics until this movement was born , and it was now a driving force in moroccan politics , proclaiming both the general rise of the youth movement and participation of young women in politics .
pacing the floor salima turned and said , do not bring any hint of disgrace down upon the family , you know it would kill our father besides harming our business interests .
and be careful . ''
do n't worry about me .
my part is essentially over .
i was a behind the scenes player , at least this time i was .
who knows about next time , if there is a next time ? ''
with that , akmed kissed his sister on both cheeks and left the office with salima noticing the look of unease in his eyes .
salima did n't dare go to any of the rest of the family to tell them about their involvement in the m20f to bring a true constitutional monarchy to morocco with the king only as a figurehead .
though she considered herself a modern moroccan woman , believing that moroccan men and women should walk hand in hand towards the future , she was still very much bound by age old rules of behavior and custom .
this was especially true where the authority of her father was concerned .
he was a peaceful man who believed that all was the will of allah that god would decide what should or should not take place and would work his miracles accordingly .
her father was against anyone or anything threatening to upset the status quo .
a very tolerant and spiritual man , he still talked fondly about the good jewish customers he had before most moroccan jews left in the 1950s and 60s .
no , salima would have to take a few hours to think this problem through .
she hoped that akmed was telling the truth when he said he was behind the scenes and their group was completely hidden from police view .
deciding she would go for a walk to clear her mind and maybe do some shopping , salima locked the door to her office and walked down the narrow street .
she knew that most of the tailoring shops were turning out fancily embroidered silk kaftans for the coming festival .
maybe she could find one that struck her fancy .
electing to walk up the tala'a saghira and shop along the way , salima found nothing that she liked .
leaving the medina she took a red petit taxi to the nearby fez el j'did district , barely a mile away .
there she looked at various clothing and fabric stalls while walking down the covered market way , finally finding the right one .
the shop owner started with a price of 1000dh , about 125.00 in america .
with bargaining skills learned from birth she was able to get the price down to 500dh , about 60.00 .
she knew she could probably get the price a bit lower , but if she stopped now the storeowner would probably also throw in a scarf that complimented the outfit .
price agreed upon , scarf included , she took her purchases out to find another taxi that would take her to the family home .
she was tired and she had much to think about before tomorrow .
chapter 11 thursday 4 41 am the morning hour has gold in its mouth . ''
berber proverb christopher harris , 36 year old divorced father of a growing son , writer , traveler , insatiable street food addict and landlord of the small riad mirabelle in the heart of fez el bali , greeted the early dawn as he often did awakening to the local muezzins loud and off key singing of the adhan , the call to morning prayer .
in many cities and at many mosques it was truly a hauntingly beautiful song .
when referring to most foreigners ' captivation with the call to prayer , the algerian poet malek alloula came up with a compelling interpretation .
in the blankness of cloth , the westerner sees his own ability not to comprehend , and is titillated by the experience of being shut out . ''
allahu akbar , god is greatest .
ash had al la ilaha illa llah , i bear witness that there is no god except the one god .
ash hadu anna muhammadan rasulullah , i bear witness that muhammad is god 's messenger .
hayya 'ala salahh , come to prayer .
hayya 'ala 'l falah , come to success .
as salatu khayru min an nawm , salat prayer is better than sleep .
allahu akbar , god is greatest .
la ilaha illallah , there is no god except the one god .
looking at the clock on his bedside table he saw that it was 4 45 in the morning .
christopher frowned momentarily .
yes , adhan could '' be a thing of beauty he thought , except this muezzin started earlier than all the others in the city , often dropped or coughed loudly into the microphone during the call and his off key cry to the faithful was certainly not a thing of beauty .
oh , if this muezzin would suddenly get a year long case of laryngitis thought christopher .
rolling out of bed , he stumbled over a stuffed camel left by eian .
smiling while pulling on a t shirt , he headed downstairs to make himself a cup of tea .
maybe he will get a chance to enjoy the garden before the four guests came down for breakfast .
walking through the courtyard , he sat overlooking the garden below , listening to the awakening city 's distant sounds of motorized traffic competing with the chirping birds and distant crowing roosters .
breathing in the faint scent of jasmine on the breeze , he decided today he would get to work on that faulty door latch in the upstairs guest room .
well , he would if nothing better came along .
right now though he would just sit and greet the morning sun and maybe dash off a few lines of poetry .
sometime later he welcomed fatima as she came smiling in to start her day .
sbah i khir , good morning . ''
bonjour '' replied fatima brightly .
she thought that monsieur chris should not only practice his arabic , but his french as well .
it 's a nice day , so let 's have the guest 's breakfast out here in the courtyard today .
i 'll turn the fountain on in a minute .
are you planning on going to the festival parade tomorrow ? ''
oui , i would like to at least see the start and maybe catch a glimpse of the royal couple .
she is so beautiful .
are you going ? ''
i 'm taking eian .
we are to be introduced to the king before the parade starts heading down into the medina .
eian will especially like all the different sufi groups in their costumes and the mounted horsemen . ''
fatima handed christopher a copy of the morning 's english language newspaper and walked towards the house to start breakfast , all the while thinking about what to prepare for the evening meal .
maybe b'stilla , one of monsieur chris ' favorites , or a nice tajine using the preserved lemons she had prepared weeks earlier , with olives and raisins .
turning back , she reminded him to stop by the spice shop and get some ras el hanoot , shopkeeper 's spice mixture and a main ingredient in her cooking .
later she would make breakfast for eian .
she really hoped to be able to see tomorrow 's festival , one of the highlights of the year in this most spiritual city .
fatima , like many young women in morocco , had few good prospects in front of her .
she was from a poor family living on the edge of the medina .
her father , a construction laborer , had died of a heart attack at the age of 52 .
one younger sister had recently married a tailor working in one of the myriad tailoring shops that dotted the medina like measles on a young face .
another sister was still in school .
fatima 's mother worked as a low paid clerk in a tele boutique that provided communications to the many in the medina who did not have mobile phones or landlines available .
with her salary , meager though it was , the family was able to provide the basic necessities .
she enjoyed working for monsieur chris at his riad , especially the freedom she was given in deciding such things as the menu for the guests .
she also relished occasional conversations with chris about religion especially the sufi influenced islam of morocco .
she derived great pleasure from the poetry of rumi , the 13th century persian sufi mystic and poet which he shared with her and both received pleasure from the quranic verse , the gates of paradise open wide for he who can make his companions laugh . ''
only the sufi seemed to have gotten the message .
sufism , islamic mysticism , and sufi brotherhoods , called tarikas , were common in morocco though sufism was banned in many more conservative islamic nations .
at the present time , virtually all wahhabi influenced islamist and salifist groups viewed sufism as heretic and thus , like all such apostates , must either repent or die .
because of its liberal nature and tolerance , sufism was much encouraged by the king .
the islam he , as head of the faithful in morocco enforced was also generally considered liberal and tolerant .
the more adherents sufism gained , the fewer citizens left to question the king 's role as religious ruler .
sufis were not generally interested in politics , a decided advantage to the ruling class .
its focus was on harmony between the outward and the inner , saying that outward differences are superficial when appreciating the power of love in and of god .
moroccan youth were increasingly drawn to sufism because of its tolerance and rejection of fanaticism and embracing of modernity .
music was an integral part of sufi spiritual tradition in its attempt at reaching hadra , a trance state which inspired mystical ecstasy .
an example was a gnawa performance , centering on a spinning body and a high pitched voice vocalizing rhythmic poetic verses in chants such as there is no god but god , and muhammad is his messenger . ''
these same words are frightening when uttered from the mouth of a terrorist bomber , but lifted the soul when sung by a pious muslim sufi .
sufi gatherings inspired people to engage in interfaith dialogue and the emphasis on shared universal values with christianity and judaism such as the pursuit of happiness , love of family , tolerance of religious differences and promotion of peace .
all of this knowledge made it possible for both , one a moroccan muslim the other american christian , to enjoy the coming days celebrations .
chapter 12 thursday 5 28 am among walnuts only the empty one speaks . ''
moroccan proverb chief inspector ayrad afellay wearily put his phone away , stubbed out a cigarette and scratched the day old beard on his face .
it had been another long night of questioning , running down dead end leads and making sure that too many feathers of important people were n't ruffled in the process .
feeling pressure from above , the good sret commander had passed it on down to him , making sure that he was aware of the dire '' consequences that would happen if the planned attack proved successful .
he also demanded to know every detail gained so far in tracking down the terrorist cell .
deciding to take a walk to clear his mind and more properly focus on the problem at hand , he left his office in the prefecture and walked towards the recently restored 18th century garden j nan sbil with its palm tree lined walks , a lake and various fountains .
from here he could allow his troubled mind to freely roam in search of an answer .
some people could focus in the midst of chaos .
afellay was not such a person .
he needed to not only stretch his legs , but his mind as well .
his lungs too , if the persistent hacking , cough was any indication .
being a chain smoker was bad enough .
being shut up in a roomful of other chain smokers was worse .
breathing the fresh air he slowly walked past the water wheel and observed several park workers exchanging gossip about the rising price of bread as well as a young couple strolling side by side between the palms in the early morning light , probably whispering terms of undying love before heading off to school or work .
he suddenly thought of idus and hoped that his life in casablanca was going well .
he needed to call him as soon as he had a free moment .
he continued to worry about his son while his gaze took him to the north .
jebel mount zalagh was the mountain that looked down on fez .
almost due north from fez el bali , a person could view the entire river valley and city unrolled like a vast carpet .
here one could escape the noise and hustle of the metropolitan area below .
this was where ayrad afellay escaped , at least mentally , to meditate on this puzzle .
he had climbed zalagh many times as a youngster , and relished its emptiness , its quietness .
now he escaped in his mind , retracing the trails that led to the top .
closing his eyes , he imagined the city lights at night spread below , like the blanket of heaven above .
somewhere hidden in those twinkling lights was the answer .
pushing back the veil of darkness and allowing his mind to prowl unrestricted , he looked for a pattern to appear , for clues overlooked , for a connection , a thread that would allow him to unravel the cloth that bewildered .
in that labyrinth of streets and alleyways , which spread out below hid his minotaur , the secret terrorist cell that promised death to the monarch and mayhem to the country .
it was there , he knew , and he only needed to reflect long enough to find it .
refreshed by his walk , he decided to return to his office and review the latest bits of information .
afellay shuffled the layers of notes taken from the interrogations made in the last 24 hours by the national security police , royal moroccan gendarmerie as well as the dst , the moroccan secret police .
like the many layers of the medina the ones below hidden by those on top , he read each note .
maybe he needed to dig deeper in the investigation , to the bottom of the medina , to its most basic level .
chief inspector afellay had not reached this position by being lazy or stupid .
he has had a distinguished career .
success first came during the years of armed conflict in the former spanish sahara territory annexed by morocco in 1976 .
when the polisario front had instituted a guerilla war that year , afellay was already picking up information that made it possible for morocco to blunt most of the algerian backed polisario 's worst attacks .
he was known as the best manipulator of men in all of the national police .
he had often been ruthless and coldly efficient .
every war had its criminals , on both sides .
he could still be if that was what was needed , but he would much rather use his own intelligence and skills to prevent terrorist attacks and protect the kingdom .
quickly moving up the ladder of police officers in that region , his skills at gaining information from disparate sources drew the attention of his superiors , and he was transferred eventually to his home city , fez .
modern moroccan terrorism had roots going back to the 1960s and 1970s with the establishment of certain clandestine groups , mainly on university campuses .
fueling these was deteriorating social and economic circumstances leading to riots in casablanca in 1965 followed by the king 's suspending of the constitution and disbanding of parliament .
these actions led to two unsuccessful coup attempts in the early 1970s .
as in most countries of the world , the illiterate , rather than the educated formed the majority of those falling under the spell of extremist organizations .
relying on books , cassettes and dvd 's for communication , these groups present a fanatical and puritanical view of islam more intolerant than traditional moroccan teachings and towards women and jews specifically .
an attack on a mcdonald 's restaurant in 1993 was followed by attacks on a hotel and bombing of a jewish cemetery in 1994 , all carried out by moroccan terror cells .
synchronized suicide bombings in casablanca in 2003 as well as the april 2011 marrakech attack was a reminder of the strength of underground islamist movements in morocco and a setback to the efforts of the king .
the targets suggested that the terrorists wanted to destroy symbols of morocco 's tolerance and modernity restaurants where the elite of different religions gathered , jewish targets and a hotel with a popular nightclub .
moroccan terrorist networks were also dispersed throughout europe and were very autonomous .
afellay had been instrumental in connecting the cells involved with returning mujahideen who had received military training in afghanistan before returning to morocco and most importantly the connection of religion , not political philosophy , as the basis for the various groups .
religion , he knew , was a universal .
it was part of what made us human .
combining religion with human weakness however , with intolerance , ignorance , hatred and finally politics , whether it was an islamic theocracy such as iran or a fundamentalist christian america , brought the worst of possible worlds .
religious fanaticism was as serious a danger to religious liberty as excessive state authority according to james madison , primary author of the us constitution , and as afellay knew morocco was a long way from the democracy of the us .
afellay was smart enough to know that you had to battle militant islamists with ideas , not just guns .
as the american william james once said , truth is what works '' and truth was a weapon .
if you raise the people 's living standards , they were more likely to listen to you on non economic matters .
though the leaders of the moroccan terririst movement were mostly in prison , a new leadership would spring up to take their place .
there was always someone ready to fill the empty place .
he was reminded of the berber proverb , you have to calm the surface of the lake to see the bottom . ''
how true !
how true !
going through the names given out by those caught in the sweep he noticed for the first time the name akmed benharoun , mentioned in association with the february 20 movement .
this could only be the youngest benharoun son , salima 's younger brother .
strange , thought afellay .
he had no reason to suspect any of this well respected family of involvement , but you never knew about young people with the influences coming at them constantly over the television and the internet .
rhetoric often helped provide focus to paranoia and aggression .
with pro democracy movements springing up all over the arab world the past year along with hundreds of terrorist websites that could be found online , no wonder there was so much confusion in the arab world .
new democracy could foster liberalism or extremism and he knew that this tug between an enlightened future and a reconstituted past had torn many well respected families apart .
his own son , idus , was involved , at least peripherally , in some aspect of the m20f .
he had found this out when a friend who happened to be a dst officer had quietly come to him with reports following demonstrations in casablanca .
approaching idus , he had risked severing an already shaky bond with his son by informing him that he was being watched and that there could be dangerous repercussions that afellay would not be able to protect him from .
afellay also was aware that the interior ministry , which had control of the police and associated agencies , was behind the use of baltaguia , hired thugs that were implicated in several deadly attacks on protestors over the past several months .
this was done in order to counter the anti government protestors .
fear and intimidation were old tools used by the powerful against the weak the world over .
george orwell wrote , everyone believes in the atrocities of the enemy and disbelieves in those of his own side . ''
he would dig a little deeper into this piece of information and see what he could find .
meanwhile , he would send his men back out to run a finer mesh of netting through the medina to see what could be found .
they only had hours to prevent a tragedy .
chapter 13 thursday 9 30 am if a man falls , all will tread on him . ''
moroccan proverb both fettah and hasan had worked through much of the night fabricating the poison dart .
first they prayed , asking allah to bless their undertaking and look upon them favorably .
they then set to work creating the weapon from the small container that hasan had brought with him from the chemist .
fettah barely asked if the chemist had been amply rewarded . ''
when hasan responded , yes ! ''
the tall one '' smiled a reply fewer loose ends to worry about .
care was taken in the construction of the dart , made from a soluble plastic that would both resist disintegration when fired and yet would dissolve once it punctured the skin , releasing the deadly concentrated ricin into the kings neck .
scientists sympathetic to their cause had provided the cell with the basic plastic along with a vacuum forming machine in which to fabricate the dart .
what was left was to make sure that the dart could hold the needed amount of poison and that the projectile could be accurately fired from the weapon .
except for the ambient sounds of the night the house was still a perfect island of silent malevolence .
with the first call of morning prayer echoing through the medina , the two conspirators had finished their preparations .
hasan soon bid fettah goodbye and promised to return in the afternoon at the new safe house with the final part of their plan .
if it be the will of allah , tomorrow they would join in the revelry as it passed by the royal revue stand .
walking upstairs , hasan carefully stepped over rooftop walls before finally coming down a crumbling stairway two buildings away from the safe house , little noticing the shabbily dressed one eyed beggar who looked up .
chapter 14 thursday 10 09 am knowledge is better than wealth you have to look after wealth , knowledge looks after you . ''
moroccan proverb christopher headed towards the tala'a sigira and then down to the shrine of moulay iddriss ii , the focus of the city 's pride and identity .
with the saint 's festival tomorrow , the usual milling crowd of western tourists and candle toting muslim pilgrims had grown exponentially in recent days .
christopher knew that local islamists refused to enter out of opposition to what they viewed as popular hero worship distracting from islam 's focus on obedience to god alone .
most pilgrims were quite joyful with anticipation of tomorrow 's festival with its traditional gnawa , berber and sufi music and immaculately dressed participants .
to the casual tourist , morocco , and fez in particular , appeared to be an impenetrable jumble of people , strange designs , discordant voices and passing animals .
if one , however , learned to fit all the pieces together , then patterns eventually formed and understanding was unlocked .
unlike most westerners , he knew that there were many islams , '' not one monolithic version .
quranic law , called sharia , varied from country to country .
stoning is the law in sudan but not in morocco .
the wearing of a veil is obligatory for women in saudi arabia and yemen but not tunisia or turkey .
it was much like the various denominations found in christianity , not only differences between catholic and protestant , but various divisions within each of those splits .
virtually everyone in morocco considered themselves a muslim while very few of them actually practice the five pillars of islam professing faith in the existence of only one god with muhammed as its prophet , perform five daily prayers , fast during ramadan , the giving away of money and performing a pilgrimage to mecca .
the fact was most people did not pray and many drank alcohol .
morocco , and more importantly fez , was much more divided by class , geography and ethnicity rather than religious sect as in iraq or pakistan .
what went on outside the crenelated walls of the medina was of little interest to most fasi 's .
they tended to look down on everyone , as if their city was still the cultural hub of all of north africa .
he considered all of this as he walked north to the bottom of the tala'a kebira and started up the long slope towards the bab bou jeloud market where he would pick up what was needed .
climbing the terraced cobbles of the tala'a , he passed the honey souk with its more than twenty kinds of honey for sale past the antiquities and carpet shops of the warm and friendly benharoun family , always eager to share a glass of mint tea and talk .
finally he came to an area of small shopkeepers who willingly helped him practice his arabic in exchange for letting them improve their english .
first though , he stopped at his favorite spice emporium owned by old hassan and his son , filled with fifty or more kinds of spices and herbs and carrying his favorite ras el hanoot mixture to use in cooking .
this shopkeepers '' spice mixture varied from shop to shop and contained a blend of cinnamon , mace flowers , turmeric , nutmeg , coriander , black pepper and more .
it was a basis for most moroccan cooking .
continuing on he saw his friend khalid standing outside his curio shop .
christopher thought of him as khalid of the coke bottle glasses . ''
khalid wears the thickest glasses ever seen , but his friendly ebullience is also apparent .
as salam aleikum , khalid ! ''
wa alaykume salam christopher my friend ! ''
khalid 's face beamed brightly .
how 's business ? ''
mezyan , good , al hamdu lillah , thanks be to god '' as they sat down and khalid motioned for a nearby boy to bring sweetened mint tea for he and his guest from the adjoining shop .
christopher watched as a fist full of fresh mint springs were placed in the teapot , followed by 3 heaping teaspoons of green tea and 3 tablespoons of sugar .
onto this boiling water was poured and allowed to steep for a few minutes .
the tea was then poured into glasses and another sprig of mint was added to each glass .
the two friends then talked about the upcoming festival bringing a tourist influx and its effect on their respective businesses as well as the coming fall weather .
khalid asked about eian 's progress in french class at school and laughed at his refusal to learn and use more than just the basics of arabic .
all of this was done while sipping sweetened tea .
anything exciting happening on the tala'a today ? ''
khalid was often a font of gossip about what was happening up and down the tala'a and today proved no exception .
something is going on my friend .
the gendarmerie has been talking with all their informants .
even dst agents are everywhere . ''
what 's that all about ? ''
it has to be something connected with the kings visit tomorrow and the moussem '' said khalid , shaking his head .
it 's more than just a sweep for troublemakers . ''
we can hope that the police and security forces are on top of everything .
i 'm supposed to take eian to meet the royal couple as part of a delegation from the international community living in the medina .
are the salfist 's behind this ? ''
that would be a good guess , '' replied khalid , though they have recently made statements saying that they are now willing to renounce violence and work within the political system .
of course there are quite a number of different salafist groups and not all are associated with 'repentants , ' those who have come out against violence . ''
christopher thought over what khalid had said , comparing that with what he knew of the few bearded fundamentalists here in the medina .
it was easy to become freaked out by this group of religious puritans who were against basic democratic principles and human rights .
he had travelled enough in the arab world and east africa to know how religious intolerance could be used to hold a country in a state of perennial stasis .
i know the 'bearded ones ' are for the most part not held in great esteem here in fez el bali , though i suspect that more than a few support their efforts to limit change . ''
what you need to understand about morocco '' said khalid , '' is that at our core we are a nation trying to bridge an ever widening gap between the past and the future .
in our heads we know that our future is with the west with modernization and everything that it brings , yet our hearts long for a simpler time based on tradition without these outside influences that churn through morocco like currents in the ocean . ''
they sat discussing everything from the weather it was warmer than usual , to an upcoming visit by the new french president to rabat to various construction projects around the medina .
finally christopher rose to leave .
baraka allahu feek , may god bless you , '' said khalid , embracing his american friend .
and you also , khalid .
beslama , goodbye . ''
christopher worried over khalid 's story of possible trouble involving terrorists in the medina .
he remembered back to 2003 when there were terrorist attacks at various locations in casablanca , which killed 45 .
those attacks had targeted foreigners specifically , and being a resident of the medina meant he stuck out no matter how low a profile he attempted to display .
as his muslim friends would say , in'shallah , god willing , everything would turn out okay .
realizing that it was almost lunchtime he wondered idly if his friend mohammed was working at le bab cafe today ?
heading towards bab bou jeloud , the blue gate , he climbed the steep stairs in the 3 level cafe , quickly finding his friend mohammed .
ordering a lamb kebab , french fries and a coke he casually remarked , life can be good , even if there are crazy people in the world . ''
mohammed , smiling and rushed as he always seemed , agreed and hurried off downstairs to fetch his order while christopher sat and looked out at the people passing through the open gateway below decorated in typical fassi zellij tiles green , the color of islam on interior facade , and blue , the color of fez on the exterior facade .
it was said that sooner or later all who visited fez passed through the blue gate and it certainly looked that way today with a huge diversity of people young , old , fat , thin , male , female , tourist or local , passing below him as he gazed out .
chapter 15 thursday 2 48 p.m. the abundance of money is a trial for a man . ''
moroccan proverb bou chantouf had sent hasan off to gather the final ingredient in their plan , a supply of stinging hornets , genus vespa , commonly found throughout north africa .
these would be loosened near the royal viewing stand immediately prior to the attack .
this would not only provide a cover for bou chantouf to shoot the poison dart from the air gun , but in the confusion they would cover their escape .
though willing to die a martyr to the cause as long as the monarchy was destroyed and the pathway to the new morocco started , practicality demanded that they at least try and get safely away since as salifa had more plans for his particular talents and energies .
leaving the ras cherratene safe house fettah walked to place seffarine and past the medersa attarine , the religious school there .
circling the kairaouine mosque , he wandered aimlessly through narrow , winding alleyways with traditional crafts were being practiced in every nook and cranny .
past the brass makers souk with beating hammers that sound like so many guns being fired , before continuing on through a mind boggling range of products available for sale .
leather goods , textiles and yarn , moroccan pots , metal ware , jewelry , carpets , henna each merchant busily trying to entice passersby with their wares .
to bou chantouf this was all the more reason that the country needed a revolution .
his whole being felt that people had become bewitched with the material society of the west , thinking only of what they could buy and not of allah .
it was at this time that he overheard two shopkeepers talking about the sweep for suspected terrorists .
bou chantouf stopped , tense with a sudden alertness .
he edged closer to better hear over the buzz of the crowded souk .
listening closely he learned that the gendarmerie plus obvious dst agents are combing both fez el bali and fez el j'did for a terrorist cell that meant to cause havoc at tomorrows festival with possibly an attack .
momentarily he ducked into a nearby shop and pretended to be interested in some brass platters .
he scanned the crowd outside the shop door for any obvious plainclothesmen or uniformed gendarmes .
seeing none he continued to look intensely at the large number of people before leaving the shopkeeper and joining the crowds outside .
jostling through the pre festival crowds he frowned as he walked past the shrine of moulay iddriss , focus of tomorrow 's festival .
like most islamic fundamentalists , he believed that the attention given to so called saints was haram , forbidden by religious doctrine , and that sufi brotherhoods were heretical , feeling that a true muslim should only follow the quran , the teachings of the prophet , peace and blessing upon him , and sharia law .
tomorrow 's moussem and parade put on by the sufi 's made them unbelievers .
just the idea that a person should enter a trance to have direct communication with god was beyond his belief .
it was fitting that the king would die on this day .
his eventual destination was a tiny tailor shop inherited from his uncle .
unlocking the folding metal gate securing the minuscule space within , barely 2 meters wide he began to quickly gather together copies of the sufi robes he and hasan were to wear in tomorrow 's parade .
folding them , he was startled by the sight of a uniformed gendarme standing at the entrance .
he quickly stuffed the sufi gowns into a dark plastic bag , stood up and greeted the officer at his doorway .
salam aleikum , '' fettah formally greeted the gendarme .
wa alaykume salam , '' replied the officer .
we are questioning businesses in the medina concerning a possible attack during the upcoming festival .
have you heard of any gossip regarding such a thing ?
from your appearance you obviously are a more traditional member of the faithful and as such , could hear things which we do not . ''
his mind quickly settled , fettah calmly replied , la !
i have heard of nothing which might be of help in your investigation . ''
if you happen to hear of something , of course you will report it to us immediately , '' responded the officer as he moves to the next business on his long list .
yes , of course , '' fettah dutifully replied with a smile .
soon bou chantouf was sitting in the sparsely furnished room of the el yhoudi safe house , taking a long breath at having arrived without being further accosted .
twenty four more hours to wait before the parade !
so close nothing must come in their way .
shortly hasan would be arriving .
now was a time for prayer to ask allah to smile favorably on their undertaking .
chapter 16 thursday 3 47 p.m. whoever wants to hurt never misses his target . ''
berber proverb meanwhile , hasan has visited an acquaintance on the outskirts of fez .
he had known the old bachelor for many years , having grown up on a similar farmstead next door .
he has visited this small farm numerous times before to buy eggs .
he knew that in a dilapidated barn on the property hornets could be found .
having gone to the farmer weeks earlier , he requested a large number of the hornets captured and is now returning to bring his second deadly package back to the medina .
driving up the almost hidden rutted road , he saw the old man stacking olive branches while a scruffy cat rubbed against his leg .
he quickly got out of his car and within moments had received the box of hornets , paying the farmer a small sum of money .
with fearsome , dead eyes hasan watched and waited until the old man turned his back , then struck swiftly and brutally , snapping his neck between the second and third vertebra .
dragging the farmer 's lifeless body into the barn , he retrieved his money along with the box of hornets and returned to his battered red taxi .
he carefully placed the buzzing box on the passenger seat and headed back to the medina and the el yhoudi safe house .
negotiating the crowded streets , packed with both townspeople and tourists , hasan drove past borj sud , the sixteenth century fort overlooking the southern ramparts of the city .
turning into the bab j'did gate , he finally reached the car park at the place rcif in the center of the medina .
stepping out of his taxi , he gently picked up the now humming cardboard box containing hundreds of agitated hornets .
locking the car doors , he walked off towards the safe house .
not going directly to the house , he first walked down a side street , little more than a narrow and dusty alleyway really , before removing a key from his pocket and unlocking a door set into a garden wall .
quickly going inside , he again locked the door before crossing a small courtyard garden with overgrown and dusty shrubs and a non working fountain .
using the key to unlock another door on the opposite side he exited into yet another winding alleyway , even more shadowed and narrow than the first .
here he met a young boy bound for the local bakery carrying a board with unbaked loaves of bread on his head .
hasan then remembered that he had not eaten since early morning .
there would be time enough for eating once he is secure inside the safe house .
he soon found his way to its hidden doorway , the sounds of the maghrib time of prayer call floating above the medina .
casually he looked at his wristwatch it is 6 18 pm , just 24 hours before the beginning of the new morocco .
chapter 17 thursday 4 36 p.m. the polite tongue can suck the lioness ' breast . ''
moroccan proverb ayrad afellay 's car passed through the bab ain zleten gate into the medina and parked in the adjoining car park .
he exited his car near the steps leading down to the tala'a kebira , telling his driver to wait .
leaning against the flaking wall for a moment and lighting a cigarette he took in the hustle and bustle of the street , noticing that itinerant merchants had set up their small portable stands close to the stairs .
this was illegal , since they neither paid business taxes nor were licensed by the government , but that was not his worry today .
he was surprised that all of them had not moved their business elsewhere in the city with the flooding of the medina by both uniformed and plainclothes gendarmes and dst agents .
he also realized they have to try and make a living to feed their families in this tight economy just like everyone else .
rising , he walked down the crumbling stairs to the tala'a , going over in his mind how he will approach akmed benharoun and question him without overly alarming the rest of his family .
in morocco , as in much of the rest of the world , who '' you were sometimes was more important than what '' you were , or in this case what you might be involved in .
in morocco and fez in particular there were a small number of elite families that were above the rest , a patrician bourgeoisie whose origins went back to the founding of the city of fez .
the descendants of those first families still dominated the business world in the country today .
rising in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , they established their fortunes exporting hides and carpets to europe and importing english fabrics and industrial products .
as in europe , daughters of wealthy merchants in need of prestige married them off to aristocrats in search of funds .
over the generations an aristocracy was formed that remained close to the palace .
yes , better to walk softly just lay it out without giving away too much and see how the young man reacted , then proceed from there .
when he arrived at the main family business he found akmed had not come to work today , having called his older brother miloud and telling him that he was ill with a fever .
chief inspector afellay quickly decided to proceed with questioning of miloud .
he asked if he had noticed anything suspicious involving his younger brother and told miloud that akmed 's name had been mentioned in a routine investigation concerning possible disruptions during tomorrow 's festival .
he was an open and candid man and made no attempt to dissemble his thoughts .
he answered bluntly that he had noticed nothing that would be considered suspicious .
outwardly satisfied , afellay extended his hand in thanks and asked miloud to give his greetings to his father and mother before turning and continuing to walk down the tala'a .
turning to his right , he plunged into the heart of the medina .
he did not like coincidences , and the fact that akmed was absent today after his name being mentioned was too much of a coincidence .
he would send someone over to the young man 's residence and have him brought in for questioning .
something was n't right and time was fast running out to pay too much attention to niceties .
few shops were found in this mostly residential section , its narrow streets hemmed by flaking walls and bags of trash along with the odor of centuries .
he was reminded of an old berber saying a jointly owned house brings problems . ''
one would still occasionally walk past a beauty parlor , a bakery or a simple pushcart selling fruit or nuts .
as he neared ras cherratene he spied the old one eyed beggar sitting in a doorway .
approaching him , he respectfully greeted the beggar , for he had been taught to respect first the age and then the wealth .
this old man certainly had little wealth , but his great age was worn as a symbol of pride .
as salam aleikum '' said afellay .
wa alaykume salam '' replied the old man quietly .
i wonder if you can help me ? ''
asked the chief inspector while he idly clinked a number of 10 dirham coins from one hand to another .
what would you ask a poor old beggar man ? ''
came the reply .
i am chief inspector afellay with the sret nationale .
i was wondering if you had perhaps observed anyone suspicious in this area in the last few weeks ? ''
slowly the old man reached into his tattered and stained djellaba and scratched his stomach before looking up at the major .
n'aam '' he replied .
yes , '' and he proceeded to tell his story .
across the medina the call to prayer floated over the dusty rooftops .
akmed benharoun sat in his friend 's apartment drinking a barely chilled coke and sampling some dried fruit from a plate .
after his sister 's warning , he had gone to one of his fellow conspirators for the night rather than returning to his own apartment .
akmed would remain here with his friends until tomorrow 's parade , when he and the others would go to witness their strike for democracy .
so much depended on getting close enough to the tv cameras that would be filming the review by the royal couple .
in the corner lay boxes filled with their message to the world , soon to be scattered in front of a national audience .
chapter 18 thursday 6 14 p.m. the determined ostrich hunter will surely meet one . ''
moroccan proverb afellay returned to the waiting car and punched in the phone number to his office .
quickly he gave instructions for a search team to enter the suspected house on ras cherratene as well as the houses surrounding it , though he seriously doubted that they would find anyone at home .
next , he ordered that akmed benharoun be picked up and brought into headquarters for questioning .
finally he gave instructions for men to comb the kairaouine section of the medina and be on the lookout for the taxi driver , possibly named hasan and the elusive tall one '' .
twenty four hours from now the king would be in the reviewing stands and the potential for disaster was too great .
being awake for almost two days straight , afellay knew that he could not operate at full capacity without getting some sleep .
leaving instructions to be called immediately if anything of importance was discovered , he told his driver to take him to his home in the lido quarter of the ville nouvelle .
driving through this part of fez , one could half close their eyes and imagine being in any modern southern european city , with its many sidewalk cafes , crowded streets and modern shops , maybe a little more shabby and dusty , but close enough .
trees lined the european style boulevards and pedestrians crowded the sidewalks .
this fez was the future , he knew , while the medina was its past .
looking out at the passing scene , he saw many young men and women strolling together dressed in the latest western fashions .
it was not unusual to see three generations of moroccan women , each easily distinguished from the other by their dress .
the oldest would be in the all encompassing dark kaftan , often with a veil covering the lower part of her face .
closer inspection might show , if the woman was from a berber village , a tribal tattoo on her forehead and chin .
her daughter would most likely be dressed in a less covered fashion , probably a longish skirt with long sleeved blouse and a headscarf covering her hair .
the youngest generation would easily fit into any american or european scene , with no head covering and often bare arms and midriff .
this was the change that the islamists hated most , and it had only come in the matter of two generations .
it was also how they were able to gain recruits , especially from the poor and socially disenfranchised residents of the vast shantytowns known in morocco as bidonvilles .
with fashions , foods , music , literature , and tv from the west sweeping over morocco like a tsunami , it was no wonder that many grumbled .
change was never easy , especially rapid change in an ancient culture .
he had noticed hardline islamist groups in several north african countries already publishing cartoons linking wealthy and westernized women to the crooked and opulent lifestyles of discredited governments .
he knew it would be the same here if they were given a chance .
wearily the chief inspector stepped out of the car and told his driver to report back at 5 the next morning .
slowly climbing the stairs , he unlocked the door and flicked on the lights while scanning the sparsely furnished apartment .
he was getting old and after several days like this he felt even older .
though he was in fairly good shape for a chain smoking man of 65 , he carried a few extra pounds .
the hard years of stress were taking their toll on his body , and his thinning gray hair was an indicator .
retirement in another couple of years would allow him to relax and maybe travel , though he also worried about boredom .
a widower for the past six years , afellay had felt no need at his age to remarry or even express much interest in women period , though loneliness sometimes crept into his heart .
his life since the death of his wife was almost solely centered on his job .
he knew that he had neglected his family during much of his career and felt little need to burden still another person with such a life .
anyway , he was now settling into the life of a widower , eating when and what he chose and coming and going without having to make excuses or explanations .
idus , his only child , lived in casablanca and worked for one of the largest commercial architectural firms in the country a. g. designs .
he saw him fairly often , though not often enough if truth were known , and he worried about his alleged involvement in the february 20 movement as well as other life style choices .
at this moment he decided he needed to get some food into himself and then a few hours sleep in order to be at the height of his powers to stop this threat .
walking into the kitchen , he opened the nearly bare refrigerator and found a pot of harira that he could heat up .
this was moroccan comfort food a rich and hearty soup made with lentils , chickpeas , tomatoes , pasta , cilantro and a mlange of spices .
putting the pot on the stove , he turned the gas on while lighting another cigarette and walked over to the cabinet , taking out a bottle of 12 years old macallan scotch whiskey .
even though muslims ostensibly did not drink alcohol , afellay had learned to enjoy an occasional drink of whiskey early on in his career while in britain for a meeting on international terrorism .
it was especially relaxing when problems like this presented themselves .
he chuckled that if single malt scotch whiskey had been around when the quran was written then it would n't have been proscribed .
besides , he never drank during ramadan , and that was the important thing .
he sat smoking , mentally tallying what needed to be done before the beginning of the parade tomorrow , less than eighteen hours away .
as the soup warmed on the stove and filled the small room with the delightful smells of its goodness , the macallan relaxed his tensions and he prayed that allah would bless his efforts to find the assassin before it was too late .
chapter 19 thursday 6 45 p.m. little by little , the camel goes into the couscous . ''
moroccan proverb agents from all the bureaus involved dst , royal gendarmerie and national security police , converged on the ras cherratene safe house and surrounding area , much to the grumbling of the neighbors who could do nothing more than stand outside and do what they were told .
no , '' they had answered , nothing unusual was noticed about the tall man or the rough looking one either , other than they sometimes came and went late at night and oftentimes used neighboring stairways to come or go .
maybe they had forgotten their keys ? ''
poor residents of the medina tended to mind their own business .
as the officer in charge walked in the front door he felt the malignant air of the house .
a thorough search was made of the apartment as well as fingerprints taken .
seemingly little was found of any use in the investigation and the lieutenant in charge was just about to release all of his team when he noticed some plastic like substance on the edge of a table in the kitchen .
taking out an evidence bag , he had one of the technicians scrape up the translucent material and then seal it in the bag .
they also take sample swabs of the tabletop .
strange stuff '' he said to the technician , as they were finishing up .
he then quickly called his superiors at headquarters and briefed them on what had been found and more importantly , what had not .
before leaving he instructed the remaining agents to get statements from all of the surrounding neighbors before returning to the office .
back at headquarters , technicians went to work processing the fingerprints collected at the safe house and trying to match them with known anti government individuals .
at the same time , the table top swabs and the mysterious plastic substance were sent by helicopter to the main labs 120 miles away in rabat where others were at work , quickly learning it had some very unusual properties .
meanwhile , the search for akmed benharoun had proven fruitless .
he had not been found at his apartment , neither had any of his family or neighbors claimed knowledge of his whereabouts .
not wanting to bother chief inspector afellay with another report of no new developments , the senior officer told all of the officers to report back at headquarters by 5 the next morning .
by that time they would hopefully have traced the fingerprints found at the ras cherratene safe house as well as knowing the specific properties of the plastic like substance from the table and any other elements picked up by the swabs of the technicians .
science was now a weapon against the terrorists .
by sunrise , the search would bear sparse fruit .
across the medina fettah and hasan were making themselves ready for the coming day 's attack .
both had quietly visited the nearby bathhouse before going to the bab guissa mosque for prayer .
afterwards they returned to the safe house , which they entered using a hidden door in a blind alley .
they had eaten a sparse meal of salad , bread and olives and laid out all of their necessary equipment .
now it was simply a waiting game .
fettah paced the floor .
a sympathizer had quietly informed him after evening prayer that government agents and gendarmerie had raided a house on ras cherratene earlier in the evening .
at least we are safe for now , '' fettah mumbled to hasan as he busied himself with last minute adjustments to the air rifle and once again checked to make sure his deadly ricin darts were secure .
afterwards they would pray , asking allah to bless their undertaking .
akmed benharoun and his friends were passing the hash pipe for the third time this evening , idly talking about their february 20 movement action at tomorrow 's parade and repeating an old moroccan proverb a pipe of kif in the morning gives one more strength than a 100 camels in the courtyard . ''
like many modern young moroccan males , the casual use of easily available hashish was looked upon as a mostly harmless rite of passage , and the country had an age old tradition of its use .
akmed and his fellow m20f compatriots felt the proverb boded well for their efforts the next day .
akmed knew his family disapproved and that technically hashish was illegal in morocco , though in most cases the gendarmes tended to look the other way for locals using it .
not so for the many foreigners traveling the so called hippy trail '' who had found to their discomfort that moroccan drug laws could be severe .
he also knew that he was nearing the time to settle down , marry and seriously become part of the family business .
in'shallah , he would soon .
chapter 20 friday 5 00 am cautious people are safe . ''
moroccan proverb at exactly 5 a.m. , afellay 's door buzzer rang announcing that his driver was waiting for him .
grabbing an extra pack of marlboro 's he shut the light off and closed the door .
all night he had lain tossing in bed while trying to see a pattern where none existed , trying to think of what else could be done to protect the king .
he knew the monarch would refuse any suggestion to cancel his trip and review .
since the constitutional election earlier in the year , and especially following the attempt on his life at the allegiance ceremony , the king was rigid in expressing his intent to meet his people and show them that he was accessible .
even though the king had relinquished little actual power in the new constitution , it was a small step in the direction of a true constitutional monarchy .
afellay knew that there were parties on both ends of the political spectrum who did not want to see that happen , either wanting complete democracy or on the other end , an islamic theocracy .
that was for others to fret over thought the inspector .
the orb of the sun was breaking over the eastern ramparts of the medina as he climbed into the back seat of the car .
he knew he must free his mind .
saying aloud to his driver , a young corporal on the staff , medhi , one must learn to open their mind and let imagination take over to discover . ''
and that was exactly what afellay planned on doing this morning .
let his imagination and abilities run wild .
reaching headquarters , afellay learned that last night 's raid on the ras cherratene house was not a complete bust even though no suspects were found .
it was reconfirmed by neighbors that two or three suspects were seen entering and leaving the house and not always by the front door , going oftentimes over the rooftops to nearby stairways .
more interesting was the mystery substance found on the table inside .
the material had been quickly flown by helicopter to the national police laboratory in rabat .
it was learned that the strange plastic like substance was a water soluble compound that was also heat sensitive , causing it to disintegrate at temperatures above 95 degrees .
the swabs from the tabletop contained the dangerous poison ricin .
at least , '' thought afellay , we now know what poison is to be used , though the delivery method is still unknown .
if it was to be dispersed over the crowd , many would die . ''
checking with agents that had been sweeping the medina overnight , he learned there were no sightings of the mysterious tall one , '' nor of the thuggish cab driver , though a lead was developing on the cab number if well paid informants could be believed .
fingerprints did not produce any reliable hits of known suspects , proving only that the individuals sought had no contact with security forces prior to this time .
a good deal still needed done in the next few hours and much was at stake .
giving last minute orders , afellay then excused himself , walking directly to the area of the viewing stands in order to better prepare for the afternoon 's event .
the morning sun broke through the autumn haze blanketing the awakening city .
for fettah bou chantouf , it was the day he had been working towards for years .
no longer would he be one of the faceless masses , toiling to provide the barest essentials of life while also working to bring true islam as preached by his spiritual leader .
with a bit of luck this would only be the beginning .
he imagined thousands of true believers rising up .
gone would be the sufi mystics with their ceremonies involving trance , ecstasy and direct communion with god .
from today onward that would be haram , forbidden .
gone also would be the insidious influences of the west which cheapened the true character of the people by making them slaves to consumer goods and the scandalous culture of the west .
most importantly , gone would be the hated makhzen and the surrounding attendants who kept them in power .
today he and hasan would not take the chance of leaving the safe house until late in the afternoon .
by using the hidden exit and taking separate routes to the reviewing stand area at the bab jebala , they should be able to lessen any possibility of capture .
each would be dressed in the appropriate costume for the sufi brotherhood they were going to blend in with .
he had chosen one of the larger groups , the wazzaniyya .
all of their efforts came down to the next few hours .
with luck , they would escape detection and be able to slip into the confusion at the parade assembly point on the avenue de l'unesco .
once in their respective groups , there would be too much noise and confusion for anyone to notice one more sufi member .
all was now in the hands of allah .
chapter 21 friday 7 02 am unless you put your hands in holes , snakes will not bite you . ''
moroccan proverb christopher arose , eian excitedly shaking him awake with tales of djinns , ghosts and magic doorways .
from his active retelling , christopher could tell that eian had taken in the story of aladdin and the magic lamp , originally a moroccan fairy tale , and mixed it with other stories including spider man .
reading and imagination in the young were to be encouraged , but sometimes the result was more than a seven year old mind could handle .
reassuring him that djinns did not live down the sewer drain and sitting on the toilet was not dangerous , he climbed out of bed and quickly turned the conversation to today 's upcoming parade and festival and the chance to meet the king .
mentally he made note of the day 's activities .
first the guests had to be seen to , with one couple checking out and another checking in early in the afternoon .
the king 's attendance only heightened the crowds and made for more excitement , if that was possible .
fatima would decide and prepare tonight 's meal for the incoming guests .
she would also slip out to hopefully catch a glimpse of the royal couple if at all possible , though a lot of work lay ahead since christopher was going to the review stands early .
since she had prepared a vegetable couscous last night she promised to make b'stilla tonight and would go to the bou jeloud market early to get the necessary ingredients before the crowds made it impossible to shop .
hopefully she would also be able to catch a glimpse of the royal couple before returning to the house and preparing the evening meal .
chapter 22 friday 4 39 p.m. the dogs may bark , but the caravan passes on . ''
berber saying as the afternoon sun swung lower in the western sky , more and more people crowded the streets near the bab bou jeloud .
it was a festive crowd , with moroccan flags flying everywhere along with pictures of the king visible on lamp poles .
street vendors were selling balloons and treats and there were an amazingly large number of visible security forces .
this was not just a religious festival honoring the city 's patron saint .
it was a reason for townspeople , especially those living in the medina to dress in their holiday best , bring their families and relish in the attention of the whole country as the king and princess consort visited the festival .
workers , given the day off in order to attend the days festivities thronged the streets and crowded every available rooftop .
various sufi brotherhoods began lining up now , and one could hear the blowing of long brass trumpets and the beating of tabals and krakebs , large drums and metal musical clappers used by the gnawa .
two men in front of the procession were leading a light colored camel for dbiha , the animal sacrificed at the shrine along with several bulls , their meat being distributed to the poor .
the noise level increased dramatically with the arrival of the first group of officials from the city and the king 's guard of honor , arrayed in front of the reviewing stands .
darting through the growing crowds were children trailing balloons or cardboard moroccan flags .
this was the major sufi celebration in the city , honoring the founder and patron saint of the city , mouley idriss ii .
it was also a chance for each tarika to exhibit their brotherhood to the assembled spectators .
coffee shops were overflowing with men and women greeting each other drinking and laughing while their children played in the crowd .
into this swirl of sound and color came christopher with eian in hand .
eian had made a special double sided cardboard flag at school moroccan on one side , us on the opposite , proudly waving it above his head .
they joined the small international delegation at the reviewing stands and smilingly met the various gathered officials .
suddenly the royal couple appeared , at ease among their subjects , but surrounded by a scowling retinue of bodyguards .
heightened security was very evident today .
each of the gathered officials was introduced along with the various delegations and then it is over .
christopher barely had time to say welcome when he and eian are shunted off to the side , much to the annoyance of eian , who loudly proclaimed that he could see much better up on the stand than down on the street level .
overhearing this , the princess whispered into the ear of a close by attendant , who then moved eian to a spot in front where he could easily see the passing groups , most walking , many carrying giant portraits of the king , but a few on horseback with antique silver chased rifles from centuries past .
the dissonant noise grew louder from cheering crowds , musical instruments and chanting .
in front of the viewing stand jubilant marchers walked past the royal couple .
the various sufi groups with their brotherhood flags flying start passing by the royal review .
first came the siqilliyya with their white djellabas , red tarboosh hats and polyphonic voices .
next the chargawiyya , then aissawa , the hamadcha in their brilliant red robes .
finally the jilala , followed closely by the wazzaniyya , all interspersed with mounted riders on arabian horses , various craft guilds such as potters , wood workers and leather craftsmen as well as men balancing silver tayfar , conical tagine shaped containers containing symbolic offerings to be placed on the saint 's tomb .
there is a constant rhythm of music throbbing from the passing brotherhoods .
the whole flowing mass moved as one organ ebbing forward , then halting , then surging forward again .
many in the crowd are overcome by the pulsating sounds of the drums , the blaring of the single note horns and the passion of the moment .
spectators sprinkle orange water on the passing participants and shout out allah akbar , god is great ! ''
the noise , tension and excitement continued to build as the crowd grows more and more raucous , the musicians and singing creating a bewitching and joyful feeling .
chapter 23 friday 5 31 p.m. he who follows the right path , thorns will not hurt him . ''
moroccan proverb fettah bou chantouf aimed his horn at the kings neck .
he has practiced this so many times it is second nature .
the king turned in profile , presenting the perfect target .
horns are blowing and with a slight bow of his head he signaled to hasan to loose the hornets into the crowd in front of the reviewing stand .
hasan had been watching with lifeless eyes , and as soon as he sees the signal he opens the container and tosses it on the ground in front of the reviewing stand .
noise and confusion boils up around the review stand as the angry hornets take out their retribution on the unsuspecting bystanders .
pandemonium breaks out with screams of pain mingling with cheers of joy as the sufi continued to press on , oblivious to the goings on around the stand .
hasan was aware that green pamphlets had also filled the air at the same moment to add to the confusion .
he smiled , even though he did n't know what the pamphlets said .
it has worked perfectly .
the shouting of those nearest to hasan mingled with cheers from the crowd and music from parade participants .
fettah had struck , triggering the air rifle to fire its lethal dart towards its target .
surely the dart had sunk deeply into the neck of the king .
excitement coursed through him like a charge of electricity .
the revolution had now begun and the only thing left was to get safely away .
swiftly cutting diagonally across the flow of the procession , hasan half turned as he reached the far side of the street and saw his companion quickly joining him .
there was a swirl of activity on the review stand as fettah quickly turned to leave the procession before all exits were sealed .
moving to the right he was soon away from the immediate crowd , heading towards the car and safety .
he saw hasan in front of him , weaving through the excited onlookers .
the blow was struck and excitement pulsed through his body .
rushing through the surging mass of spectators , fettah and hasan cut down a narrow alleyway to the right and away from the parade route .
they have concluded that this would be the route least likely to be jammed with festivalgoers , enabling them to reach the parked car in rcif square .
they roughly jostle a young woman carrying grocery bags from the nearby market .
unsurprisingly , there are few others out on the streets of the medina with all of the excitement along the tala'a segura .
chapter 24 friday 5 33 p.m. the story is only half told when one side tells it . ''
berber saying fatima had made sure that she acquired all of the ingredients for the night 's b'stilla .
monsieur chris had obtained the needed ras el hanoot , and her trip this afternoon to the bou jeloud market has supplied her with the other ingredients two chickens from which she would use the breasts and thighs , red onions , garlic , red chili peppers , coriander and flat leaf parsley .
when just making the dish for monsieur chris and eian she often used pigeon instead of chicken , but some tourists balked at eating pigeon so she would use chicken instead .
all of this would be cooked up with saffron , cumin , ginger and cinnamon .
she would then make the thinest sheets of pastry possible , layering the pastry with toasted almond meal and butter and fill the pastry shell with the cooled chicken and spice mixture , covered with the folded pastry before putting it into the oven .
before taking it out she would top the pastry with cinnamon and confectioners sugar .
it made her smile because she knew monsieur chris and his guests would like it .
happy that she still had time , fatima was able to squeeze herself and her purchases into a spot close enough to the viewing stands to be able to see the king and his wife as well as a few of the passing parade groups .
satisfied , she began retracing her steps into the medina proper when she was roughly pushed aside by two men hurrying down the street .
one glimpse at the taller of the two sent chills down her spine .
his eyes and scowling face left no doubt of what he thought about a woman on the streets unattended .
akmed benharoun 's compatriots had infiltrated the last two sufi groups using the silver tayfar offerings as cover for distributing their message .
knowing he was wanted for questioning by the police , akmed wisely stayed away from the parade itself .
instead he chose the balcony of a nearby restaurant to watch the unfolding drama .
nearby tv cameras recording the celebration documented his fellow committee members reaching under the shining silver lids and throwing handfuls of the green leaflets into the air , showering the parade with the february 20 movement manifesto calling for complete democracy and free elections .
they were quickly swept up by security agents and taken away to waiting police vans .
suddenly , everything goes wrong with the peaceful gathering .
without warning an angry swarm of hornets appears seemingly out of nowhere , stinging the gathered celebrants , spectators and assembled royal guardsmen alike and spreading mayhem on the crowded viewing stand .
at the same instance the air is filled with green sheets of paper bearing the february 20 movements manifesto .
incertitude reigns on the viewing stand as bodyguards move to quickly shuffle the royal couple to safety .
swirling bodies , many wildly swinging their hands and arms try to ward off the raging hornets while green sheets of paper float gently down onto their heads .
all of this was beyond exciting for eian , who stood immediately in front of the royal couple and had the best seat on the stand .
this was the most exciting day in his young life , and eian waved his homemade double cardboard flag to the passing marchers .
suddenly it flew from his hands as if struck by a rock , a nearby security guard observantly picking it up .
with the confusion swirling around the monarch , afellay realized that this was the moment of the attack .
keying his radio , he alerted the security teams to be hyper vigilant .
for a moment , he caught a glimpse of a tall sufi participant carrying a celebratory horn , but then he is gone in the confusion .
he has stationed snipers on surrounding rooftops as well as fifty of his best agents interspersed with the crowds in hopes of preventing catastrophe .
awaiting confirmation that the monarch is safe , he continued to scan the crowd .
some officers sweep in and immediately arrest the february 20 movement protesters before they can escape or before any pro government provocateurs can rush in and beat them up with tv cameras rolling .
these will be hustled to awaiting police vans and taken to headquarters and questioned , though he knows that in the end they will probably be eventually released .
simultaneously , hasan and fettah were winding their way towards the rcif parking area .
freedom and escape lay only a few more steps to the waiting taxi .
so far the plan appeared to have gone perfectly .
police though have now discovered the parked taxi belonging to hasan .
their orders are to visually identify the driver and any passengers and relay this information to chief inspector afellay .
radios crackled when the burly hasan appeared , unlocking the car .
both he and a tall , bearded man dressed in a white djellaba climb into the taxi before starting off in the direction of the bab j'did gate .
meanwhile , on a narrow street overlooking bab rcif square a fashionably dressed man with a pencil mustache watches the unfolding drama as hasan and bou chantouf suddenly appear and climbed into the parked red taxi .
watching intently as obvious police detectives climb into a car and start to follow the taxi , he reaches into a pocket and retrieves his mobile phone , quickly punching in a series of numbers as he turns and walks up the hill towards the bab ftouh .
suddenly there is a tremendous explosion catapulting the petit taxi 's engine high into the air while turning the interior into a blazing inferno .
several nearby pedestrians lay nearby , their bodies shattered by the blast .
inside what continued to exist of the small fiat , little remains of the driver or his passenger .
a thin smile crease the face of the man as he wipes dirt off of his expensive italian loafers and makes another call to order a car to meet him at the bab ftouh taxi area .
in the distance sirens blare like so many buzzing hornets .
chapter 25 sunday 10 10 am believe what you see and lay aside what you hear . ''
moroccan proverb chief inspector ayrad afellay , sat drinking coffee and lighting up his fifth cigarette of the morning .
he was at his usual table outside the cafe mekouar , his favorite across from the continental tourist hotel .
from here he can observe the people , what he thinks as his people , busily going about their separate lives .
hopefully , his own life will now return to a slower , more normal pace , one that an aging 65 year old could manage to hold onto for the next two years until his planned retirement .
as he sits nursing his coffee and cigarette , he lets his mind review the past 96 hours .
the king 's life had been saved .
not through some heroic effort by either afellay , or any other member of the protective forces .
not by good detective work , though there was indeed that .
no , the king 's life had been saved by fate , the hand of allah , the all merciful .
it was saved by the movement of a young american boys cardboard flag , which had intervened with the poison dart , meant to bring death , chaos and revolution to the monarchy and the country .
the two suspected terrorists had mysteriously blown up in their escape vehicle supposedly victims of yet another terrorist plot gone wrong .
though several loose ends bothered afellay , his superiors were content to wrap this all up neatly for king and country .
too neatly for afellay he did not like coincidence .
a frown came across his grizzled face as he lit yet another cigarette and blew smoke into the late september air .
fall was coming , bringing with it cooler temperatures and cleansing rains .
would that be enough to wipe clean the threat to the government and the country ?
not just from misguided islamist zealots bent on forcing their narrow interpretation of islam on morocco and the world at large , but well intentioned pro democracy elements agitating to push the country to full democracy much too quickly .
a third possibility increasingly bothered afellay .
what if there was a clandestine force working within the government , inside the national security system and backed by a powerful group close to the king who would do anything to keep themselves in power , playing both sides against the other ?
true , the february 20 movement had gained a moment on the tv screens , and their message calling for increased democracy had gained a more extensive audience .
in time , in time '' thinks afellay .
there is danger in both extremes and it was his duty to stand in the forefront against them .
in'shallah !
only allah knew what was written , for the country , for any man .
the kingdom of morocco faced an uncertain future , blown as it were by forces far from its control .
from the east came the winds of change , sweeping one totalitarian government after the other from power and shaking the status quo from the distant hindu kush of pakistan to the high atlas mountains of morocco .
he knew that rocking the boat was not popular , but that needed reforms , especially in the areas of corruption and favoritism must be made quickly .
it remained to be seen whether the gentle revolution '' could indeed bring needed changes to his beloved country .
he suffered no illusions as to what lay ahead of him in enforcing the dictates of the powerful elite surrounding the government .
he was after all a soldier , and he would do what was demanded of him , utilizing his skills as best he could to protect the stability of morocco .
for now it was enough to sit in the warming sun , enjoy the pleasures of being alive and plan for his peaceful retirement .
glossary of terms moroccan arabic darija moroccan arabic is a dialect , and as such , it differs in both spelling and pronunciation from classical arabic .
it , along with french and to a lesser extent berber are the most commonly spoken languages of morocco .
adhan call to prayer as salam alaykum hello !
peace be unto you .
al hamdu lillah thanks be to god !
allah akbar god is great !
bab gate .
there are 8 main gates into fez el bali , the medina .
balak look out !
baraka allahu feek may god bless you !
be'ya allegiance ceremony to the king bislema good bye b'stilla sweetened pastry containing pigeon or chicken and spices chebakia flower shaped fried pastry sweetened with honey dar small guest house without a garden derb narrow street or alleyway djellaba long robe with hood favored by moroccan men djinns genies , spirits in mythology hadra trance like state in sufism .
hammam public baths hanoot convenience store haram forbidden by religious law in'shallah god willing khirwa castor bean khobz flat moroccan bread la bes how are you ?
i 'm fine !
lla no !
maghrib evening prayer , the 4th prayer of the day makhzen social and political elite mashi moshkil no problem !
mellah literally salt '' , area of fez el jd'id formerly inhabited by jews merdersa religious school mezyan good moussem religious festival n'aam yes nus nus coffee with milk oued river ras el hanoot shop keepers spice mixture rawashin bay windows allowing unseen women to view the streets below riad guest house with a garden salama malakum hello , peace by unto you .
sbah l khir good morning !
seer f'halek go away !
shokran , shokran bzzaf thank you , thank you very much tala'a street tarikas sufi brotherhoods tayfar silver cone shaped containers for spiritual gifts wa alykum e salam response to greeting , hello .
authors note dear reader , thank you for purchasing this ebook .
it is my hope to not only provide a bit of reading enjoyment , but also help share my love for the people of morocco and especially the wonderful and magical city of fez .
at least two more novellas centering on the life and challenges of chief inspector aryad afellay and the inhabitants of the medina will be coming soon .
thank you , c.r .
black 2012 defenders of destiny book one the discovery of astrolaris by brenton barwick i dedicate this story to joseph , who inspired me with i love you daddy .
tell me a story about me and the robot .
remember , a persons inability to verify the existence of something in no way disproves the reality of its existence .
joseph and shariannas dad , thomas .
copyright 2008 brenton barwick smashwords edition .
all rights reserved , including reproduction in any form , in whole or in part .
contents chapter 1 the viper chapter 2 its from space !
chapter 3 humanoid ?
chapter 4 the creature chapter 5 the neanderthal twins chapter 6 a test try , not a test fly chapter 7 look out !
chapter 8 fake moon landings ?
chapter 9 the meteorite chapter 10 the black obelisk chapter 11 what will nasa think ?
chapter 12 trapped chapter 13 the labyrinth chapter 14 its a mine !
chapter 15 lets take it home chapter 16 the ambush chapter 17 the mariana trench chapter 18 island paradise chapter 19 the volcano chapter 20 salvage operation chapter 21 the leviathan chapter 22 the wreck chapter 23 orca !
chapter 24 run !
chapter 25 eldorado !
chapter 26 thats no meteorite postword book two preview acknowledgments i give a very special thanks to my wife , kjerstin , for her essential support , and remarkable ideas .
she encouraged me to write the story and inspired me to flavor the adventure with a little mystery .
thanks to my mom , donna , my dad , ken , and my sisters kenda barlow , and keva wardell for their thoughtful critique and invaluable suggestions .
i am grateful to my brother , stott , for the robot and the obelisk on the cover art .
i thank my brother , valdon , for his help in book layout and arrangement , and who always helps me with technical computer solutions .
i extend my sincere appreciation to the following , for giving me incredibly useful feedback and encouragement kelly and nathan nuttall and their children rebekah , kampton , and kayla .
denice cannell , mike cannell , kayson barwick , logan malmstrom , steve rasmason , melinda diamond , mitchell gillette , parker costa , aspen curtis , nancy nielsen , vanessa nuttall , gary dazley , carter bryant , danielle finlay , rodger and connie brown , alex dewsnup , richard malmstrom .
this is an original work of fiction by brenton barwick and is protected by the copyright laws of the united states of america .
chapter one the viper look !
there !
joseph leaped from the rusty old flatbed pickup truck as it rolled to a stop at the bottom of a gully , and ran to the spot where he saw the sun glinting from the ground .
did you find a geode ?
josephs dad asked , as he climbed out of the truck .
no .
as joseph turned , he held up a large piece of shiny black obsidian shaped like an arrowhead .
even better .
a huge smile crossed his face .
it was sitting on that flat rock .
shariannas going to be sorry she didnt come now .
joseph and his sister were born less than a year apart .
joseph was about the oldest student in the seventh grade , while sharianna was probably the youngest .
wow , a spearhead , his dad , thomas , marveled .
lets look around and see if there are any more .
while searching the area , they found along the rim and scattered down the slope of the gully several geode fragments , but none that were whole .
joseph suddenly heard a sound that made him freeze .
dont move !
dad whispered fervently from several yards away .
now , very slowly , move away dont make any sudden movements .
directly in front of joseph , in the shade of a sagebrush bush , was a large rattlesnake , coiled and ready to bite .
its rattle was at least four inches in length .
joseph was easily within striking distance of the five foot diamond back .
josephs heart seemed to stop momentarily when it resumed its function , it did so with a furious pounding .
his mouth felt suddenly dry as he held his breath , while beads of sweat rapidly formed on his brow .
he was startled and scared , but he knew he had to act carefully .
slowly , he moved his left foot backwards and cautiously shifted his weight to that foot .
the snakes head was moving from side to side slightly , with its tongue flicking in and out , testing the air for the scent of an enemy .
a large bead of sweat rolled off josephs forehead and into his eye .
the salt from the sweat stung as he blinked , but he resisted the involuntary urge to wipe it away .
one more step backward and joseph would be safely out of the vipers striking range .
slowly whispered dad .
the serpent hissed as its head rose above the coils of its body , even higher than the quivering rattle .
joseph carefully , and very slowly , moved his right foot behind his left .
okay , breathed josephs dad with obvious relief .
i think youre safe suddenly , the coiled viper hissed loudly and lunged toward joseph in a blur of movement .
josephs reflexes caused him to instantly jump back , catching his heel against a rock , and crashing to the sand .
as he fell backwards , his arms swung wide in an instinctive attempt to break his fall .
his eyes were riveted on the serpents head with its fangs distended as the toe of his worn out tennis shoe came up to meet it .
josephs mind perceived his surroundings as if he were in slow motion he could see his sock through the hole in the top of his tennis shoe as the fangs sank into the end of his shoe .
at the same time , joseph felt a painful prick in his hand as he hit the ground .
there must be two of them , he thought frantically , as he jerked his arm back and scrambled backwards like a crab .
the snake recoiled and continued to shake its rattle .
joseph felt his dads hand on his shoulder as he scrambled to his feet .
did it bite you ?
thomas asked anxiously .
joseph held up his hand and saw , with a strange kind of painful relief , several cactus spines stuck in his flesh .
they retreated several yards away .
joseph sat down on a boulder and pulled off his shoe and his sock .
they examined his toes , looking for any puncture marks .
thomas looked at josephs shoe , and held it up for him to see .
that was close .
joseph looked at the rubber on the toe of the shoe and saw two small marks , then looked back toward the serpent .
why did it try to bite me ?
joseph asked when he began to breathe again .
i dont know rattlesnakes will usually only bite things that are too big for them to eat if they feel threatened , maybe this one is just mean , answered dad , as he picked up a softball size rock and hefted it in his hand .
joseph grabbed dads wrist , i think we should let it go .
i heard on animal planet that they really dont want to waste their venom , or risk getting injured by attacking large animals .
i guess youre right , they do help balance the ecosystem in the desert by eating rodents and keeping them from overrunning the environment , agreed dad .
joseph pulled the cactus spines from his hand , as they watched the graceful reptile from a safe distance until it slithered over the hill and disappeared .
the sun began to set , and finding no more spearheads or whole geodes , they decided to make camp right there , with plans to dig for geodes in the morning .
after dinner , they spread their sleeping bags on top of their camping pads in the back of the pickup .
well be safe from rattlers and scorpions up here , dad commented confidently , as he lay down on his comfortable bed and fluffed his pillow .
joseph plopped down on his sleeping bag with a big , ahhhh , im sooooo tired .
he caught sight of the first star .
star light , star bright , first star i see tonight i wish i may , i wish i might , wish upon this star tonight .
after a long pause gazing into the night sky joseph said quietly with a sigh i wish a big yawn made the rest of his wish incomprehensible .
as the other stars began to appear in the clear desert night , dad asked quietly , almost to himself have you ever seen so many stars ?
nope , i can even see the milky way , was josephs nearly inaudible reply , full of awe .
he pointed to what looked like a red star , is that mars ?
ill bet it is , replied dad .
see how it doesnt twinkle ?
yep .
that means its a planet , continued dad .
stars twinkle , planets dont .
my star chart !
joseph rummaged in his backpack and pulled out an earth and astronomy fact book that uncle jared had given him on his last birthday .
he reached into his pack again for a flashlight .
opening the book up to the northern hemisphere star chart , he held it up to the sky and rotated it until he had the big dipper lined up and all the other stars fell into place .
it must be mars , observed dad , there is no red star shown on the chart in that spot .
a bright speck of light appeared and slowly made its way across the sky .
another speck of light approached the first and seemed to connect .
that is the space shuttle meeting up with the space station , announced joseph .
how did you know that ?
marveled dad .
mr. lato described it to us .
ah , your science teacher ?
yep , hes pretty cool .
the desert night sounds were as beautiful as the sky .
lis ten , entreated dad , as he put his hands behind his head and relaxed contentedly onto his pillow .
joseph could pick out the individual sounds of a cricket as an owl hooted from a nearby snag and a coyote howled from a faraway hilltop .
joseph and his dad lay quietly for a long time , enjoying the solitude and beauty of the desert .
a shooting star flashed across the sky .
joseph , what did you wish for ?
i wished that his voice trailed off as he drifted into sleep .
joseph was snuggled deep in his sleeping bag as the sun tentatively approached the jagged mountain peaks along the eastern horizon , casting a faint golden aura across the desert scape .
dad arose , and glanced at the lump in the bottom of josephs sleeping bag .
he had a long day yesterday , he thought to himself , as he quietly fired up the small propane stove for a large breakfast .
the morning was still cool and pleasant when the lump began to move .
slowly , it moved up the sleeping bag until finally , a blonde pillow head with light blue eyes emerged .
with a yawn and a slow stretch , the sleepy boy mumbled what time is it ?
morning time time to find those geodes we came for .
i hope we find more than yesterday .
joseph breathed down a pancake smothered in real maple syrup , quickly followed by two more and topped off with a pile of scrambled eggs and a small carton of milk .
how were geodes formed , anyway ?
inquired joseph .
geodes were originally bubbles in lava rock and over a very long period of time minerals seeped into these bubbles in the rock and crystallized , forming the beautiful crystals in the geodes .
this process made the geodes harder than the surrounding rock as the rock eroded , the geodes were freed and rolled down the mountain and eventually ended up being deposited in the sand at the bottom of a great lake .
in time , the lake evaporated and became a desert .
think well find something worth keeping today ?
joseph asked .
im thinking that since we found so many geode fragments along the edge and sides of the gully , maybe we ought to dig right into the side of the gully .
a strange thought suddenly occurred to joseph .
maybe the spearhead is an ancient native american good luck omen .
he couldnt explain why , but joseph suddenly felt impressed to say we should dig here in the bottom , right where we found the spearhead .
joseph grabbed his digging tools and the shade umbrella .
i think the digging would be easier in the side of the hill , pressed dad .
but this feels like a lucky spot , replied joseph , as he set up the umbrella with its precious shade directed over the flat rock .
thats good enough for me , agreed dad .
as they dug , they fell into a routine .
dad picked , and then joseph shoveled .
every now and then joseph picked up a large geode fragment from the sand he was shoveling and put it in a bucket .
this one is very pretty but why are we only finding broken geodes ?
asked joseph , with some disappointment .
dont know , huffed dad , as he put down the pick .
joseph picked it up .
spell ya ?
thanks .
dad climbed out of the hole and sat down on the bucket of geode fragments .
josephs first swing of the pick bounced right back with a loud clang .
ugh .
what is that ?
questioned joseph , his hands stinging from the vibration of the pick handle .
quick , get out of the hole !
exclaimed dad in an urgent voice .
why ?
asked joseph , as he scrambled out of the hole .
they quickly clambered up the steep slope at the end of the gully and dad explained between great breaths this area is close to the dugway military firing range it might be an unexploded artillery shell !
as they climbed out of the gully , they dove behind a large rock outcropping that leaned away from the gully , creating a cave like shelter .
they peered around the edge of the rock and could see the hole they had dug , the truck parked next to it at the bottom of the gully , and the gentle slope they had driven down leading away and out of the gully .
the outcropping of rock they were hiding behind was on top of a small hill about fifteen feet higher than the edge of the gully .
they looked all around and noticed for the first time that the edges of the gully also seemed to be mounded up slightly more than the surrounding desert , which sloped gently to the south for what looked like several miles toward a great flat plain , with very little vegetation .
from up here , it looks like a big scrape in the desert , mused joseph .
thats odd , observed dad , as he looked down at their dig site .
that gully slopes the wrong way .
what do you mean ?
inquired joseph .
gullies and canyons are created by erosion , right ?
as water flows down them , it cuts them deeper , until it flows down into a river or valley .
this one slopes down , alright , but it cuts crossways across the main slope , and it ends in a pit instead of emptying out onto lower ground .
joseph looked at the gully thoughtfully .
erosion is slowly filling it in , rather than cutting it out .
a thought suddenly occurred to dad this must be a meteorite crater !
see the shape of the depression its long and sloping from one end to the other .
the trajectory of the meteorite must have been almost parallel to the ground and its velocity wow !
joseph interrupted excitedly .
a meteorite is even cooler than geodes !
after a short pause , so , you dont think its an unexploded artillery shell ?
nope , this pit is way too big that must be one big meteorite !
exclaimed joseph , as he began to stand up .
he glanced up at the outcropping of rock that hung over them .
look at that , dad .
above them , etched into the rock were strange looking drawings .
pictographs , stated dad .
do they mean anything ?
who knows , dad laughed .
i guess you might consider them ancient graffiti .
what about these , asked joseph , pointing to some type of ancient inscription etched into the rock .
i wish i had moms knowledge of ancient languages , said dad .
she wouldnt know what this says anyway didnt she study latin and greek ?
responded joseph .
i guess youre right , i dont think she knows any native american languages .
oh well , meteorites are a lot cooler than old rock art , said joseph , as he ran back down into the pit .
joseph and his dad resumed their excavation with renewed vigor .
joseph didnt even pause to save the broken geodes .
his shovel was flying so fast that thomas decided it would be safer to watch from the edge of the hole .
the shovel struck the metallic object several times , but the sand continued to pour into the bottom of the hole .
finally , enough sand was removed joseph threw his shovel onto the edge of the hole and , bending down , began to brush the sand away from the metal object .
as dad was climbing into the hole he heard joseph wow , no way !
look at that , its not like the meteorites at the natural history museumits too smooth .
joseph had exposed about a foot of the strangest material he had ever seen .
on the surface it was dark and shiny and yet not reflective .
thats definitely no artillery shell , whispered dad .
then what ?
queried joseph as he raised his hands slightly for added emphasis .
lets find out .
they began removing the sand in an attempt to find the edges of the object .
the sun quickly moved across the desert sky the shade from their sun umbrella no longer fell upon the team as they worked .
oblivious of the heat , beads of sweat glistened and danced , then rolled to the ground , leaving tracks in the dust on their faces .
more of the object was now exposed it seemed spherical and they estimated it to be about twelve feet in diameter .
kneeling down , they brushed away the sand with their hands .
it felt smoother than glass and cool to the touch , even in the hot desert sun .
the surface was absolutely flawless no cracks , rust , pits , or scratches at all even where they had scraped and banged it with the pick and shovel .
when examining the metal from slightly varying angles , the color seemed to be a changing , blending combination of different shades of midnight blue and subdued dark purple to black , accented with hints of deep dark reds and yellows , almost like swirls of different colors of oil floating on water , blended together , but not fully mixing .
it seemed to draw them toward it until they had their faces pressed close up with their hands cupped to the side as if peering into a window .
the metal appeared to be of infinite depth , small silver flecks of varying intensity and size were interspersed throughout the vastness , as if looking at the stars in the expanse of deep space .
chapter two its from space !
its beautiful , declared joseph .
it looks kind of like the pictures of space on the nasa web site .
slowly , joseph and his dad raised their heads from the incredible sight and climbed out of the now large hole .
handing joseph a jug of water and a camp chair , josephs dad flipped open another chair and put it in the elusive shade of the umbrella and with a long sigh , relaxed into it , as if it were his favorite lounge .
chugging the water straight from the jug , joseph handed it back to his dad nearly half empty , and sank into the other chair .
so .
this was josephs signature invitation to his dad for his thoughts .
there was a long pause as thomas finished off the jug of water .
so he drawled contemplatively .
i think we should finish digging it up and then figure out what it is .
after a thoughtful silence , we should go get the backhoe .
im too tired to keep digging by hand besides , even if we could dig it up , its too big for the pick up truck , and no telling how heavy it is .
thomas operated a one man excavation company they owned a backhoe and a dump truck .
we are going to keep it , arent we , dad ?
yeah , this is the find of a lifetime .
lets put a little sand over it , in case someone comes by while were gone .
i think we should leave the umbrella and the cooler , to mark it as our spot .
joseph couldnt wait to see his moms face when he showed her the spearhead .
as they pulled down their long tree lined gravel driveway , he saw percy come out from under the porch .
with a couple of barks and his tail wagging furiously , he ran to greet them .
joseph could see his mom look out the kitchen window .
she came out onto the porch as joseph came bounding up the steps .
i see by your face that you must have met with success , she observed , smiling .
joseph pulled the spearhead from his pocket as if performing a magic act , ta da wow , that is an interesting geode , his mother responded , a little bit teasingly .
its an ancient indian spearhead !
joseph exclaimed .
but that is nothing wait till you see what else we found , he declared , as he handed the spearhead to her .
she turned the spearhead over , noticing how beautiful it was .
what else did you find that could top this ?
we found a giant metal meteorite thing ... from space !
he burst out .
its the thing part of your description that intrigues me , she said with interest .
standing at the bottom of the front porch steps , holding the bucket of broken geodes , dad explained we dont really know what it is but it is at the bottom of an impact crater .
we are going back out there with the backhoe to dig it up and bring it home !
exclaimed joseph .
not till ive had a meal , a couple hours rest , and a hot shower .
oh yeah , and a kiss , proposed thomas , as he leaned over toward his wife , sophia .
i think you ought to start with the shower , everything else can wait till after , she countered , as she bent down to look at the bucket of geodes .
you too , she directed , looking at joseph .
where is sharianna ?
asked dad .
shes sleeping over at kims house .
she couldnt wait to show off her new clothes from our little shopping expedition , mom replied with a smile , as she thought of the great deals they had found at the factory stores .
weeks before , when joseph and dad were planning their trip to the desert , mom suggested that they make it a father and son camping trip while the girls went to park city for an adventure among the many shops and art galleries .
sharianna enjoyed the outdoors and loved to go camping , but digging holes out in the hot desert simply did not sound as fun as shopping along the streets of the old silver mining town .
joseph and dad arrived at the pit before dawn the next morning .
it looked like no one had visited the site .
they began digging with the backhoe .
ever since joseph could remember , he loved working with the backhoe with his dad and today was no exception except that today he was more excited than ever .
the four oclock wakeup call that morning from his dad would normally have been unbearable , but today it was no problem .
as they continued digging , they discovered that the sphere appeared to have a large tube extending from one end .
they continued to dig .
suddenly , joseph exclaimed with extreme excitement , its a robot !
they had now uncovered what looked like the back of a giant metal head , neck and shoulders .
oh , i dont know about that , reasoned josephs dad , it could be an ancient sculpture or monument .
yeah , right , josephs voice contained a hint of sarcasm .
it doesnt look like copper , bronze , or even iron to me .
joseph had been studying the stone , bronze , and iron ages in his world history class at school .
but how could it be a robot if it doesnt have any seams or joints ?
how would it move ?
queried dad .
look , here where the head meets the neck and where the neck meets the shoulders , it looks like one solid piece .
right ?
who knows what kind of advanced metallurgies ancient people may have had and lost ?
joseph quickly responded .
ill bet they cant make metal this hard , even today .
there is still not a scratch on it , even after digging and scraping with the backhoe .
maybe its not ancient , maybe its modern , dad continued , without conviction but interested to see what other observations joseph had made .
then how do you explain the crater its lying in , and all those broken geodes ?
and why is it buried so deep ?
and why is there so much cactus and sagebrush growing over it ?
ill bet its been here for hundreds of years !
maybe thousands , joseph reasoned proudly .
as the last word left josephs lips , dad realized the folly of his own argument .
he knew what joseph would say next .
simultaneously , dad conceded thoughtfully , while joseph announced victoriously with finality , its from space !
suddenly , joseph remembered the pictograph on the rock above the pit .
dad , this is in the rock art .
remember , it was flying through the sky , and lying in the ground .
someone must have seen it land !
exclaimed dad with excitement , as he leaped from the backhoe and clambered up the hill to have another look at the pictograph .
as they looked at the rock art , they realized that it was a series of pictures depicting the events of the crash landing of the robot .
the second to the last one showed the robot lying under the ground .
what about this last one ?
joseph paused , something feels strange .
dj vu , whispered dad , as he looked at the last pictograph of the robot lying in a hole with the primitive drawings of two men , one a little shorter than the other , holding spears and standing on top of the giant robot .
they must have defeated it with their spears , speculated dad .
those arent spearstheyre shovels , whispered joseph , its us .
dad leaned a little closer to the rock , they do look like shovels i think you might be rightbut how could that be ?
he pondered soberly , almost to himself .
joseph answered the question , it was probably drawn by an ancient medicine man , maybe he had a visiondont forget the dj vu .
forty seven feet , head to toe , called out joseph , as he looked at the tape measure he was holding .
the figure now lay at the bottom of a huge pit , fully exposed , still lying on its face with its arms to the side and fingers together , pointing down toward the feet .
thomas ran his hand along the flawless surface as he walked toward joseph , who was winding up the tape .
he could not stop marveling how cool to the touch the figure was , even in the blistering desert heat .
as they approached each other , joseph asked , how are we going to get it home ?
we could put it on the backhoe trailer .
it would hang over the sides at the shoulders , and out the back quite a bit , but i think we could strap it down ive got the big tarp and the wide load sign in the trucks tool box .
how heavy do you think it is ?
asked the boy .
i dont know .
lets see if we can move it with the back hoe .
they put the bucket of the backhoe under one of the shoulders and lifted while pushing .
its rolling , observed joseph , as one side came a few inches off the ground .
its still too heavy and too bulky to lift with the backhoe , concluded dad .
what about hiring a crane ?
i think we better keep this to ourselves for now , cautioned dad .
ive got an idea they used the backhoe and dug a ramp down along one side of the giant figure until they could back the trailer down into it , with the deck of the trailer a couple of inches below the level of the giant .
they unhitched the trailer from the truck and drove out of the gully up onto the desert and backed it up to the edge of the pit , perpendicular to the figure .
the truck was now above the giant and about forty five feet away .
they strung a chain from the truck , over the trailer and across the back of the giant and wrapped it around the far arm .
now , joseph , i think it is going to take both of us working as a team to load the robot onto the trailer .
with the truck up here pulling , and the backhoe down there lifting and pushing , i think we might be able to roll the giant over on its back right onto the trailer .
joseph was not old enough to legally drive , but at thirteen years he was already pretty experienced with the backhoe and he definitely knew how to drive the dump truck .
okey dokey , dad , answered joseph , with a huge grin .
ill honk when i want you to go and then ill honk again to stop , instructed dad .
joseph put his foot on the brake pedal and pushed in the air switch that released the parking brake .
when he heard the backhoes horn , he slowly began to pull .
the wheels on one rear axel began to spin , so he engaged the interaxel differential lock , which made both rear axels pull together .
suddenly , the truck moved forward and almost as suddenly he heard another honk .
joseph stopped , put the truck in neutral , pulled out the park brake button and jumped out .
as he ran to the edge of the pit he heard his dad yell , ya hooo !
he looked down to see the giant figure lying on its back right on top of the trailer .
dad climbed across the front of the backhoe and jumped from the bucket onto the top of the giant .
yaaaa hoooooooo !
joseph echoed his dad , with a little added emphasis , as he ran down the steep bank and clambered onto the backhoe and then onto the giant to join his dad .
so , contemplated dad , staring down at the giants face .
so was josephs reply .
the facial features were very subdued , almost imperceptible , except the eyes they were distinctively peculiar and arresting .
from their point of view , standing on the chest , it looked like the eyes were portals into the galaxy with a view of two nebula set against the backdrop of deep black space beginning with translucent swirls of the most vibrant blues on the outer fringes , then turning to yellows , then reds with the deepest darkest red at the center as if it were a red giant star shining from beyond the nebula .
beautiful , yet powerful , joseph breathed softly .
my sentiments exactly , responded dad .
what an amazing work of art .
the smithsonian may have to build another wing .
more like area 51 , countered joseph .
well , lets get it home , then well figure out what to do with it .
wed better hurry , if we want to get it ready to go before dark , observed dad , as he looked across the desert toward the sun hanging low over the western hills .
that should do it .
thomas tied the last rope on the tarp while joseph attached the wide load sign to the back .
dad looked over at the huge excavation in the bottom of the pit , i think we should fill in the hole before we leave because tomorrow is a holiday and there might be geode hunters and people on four wheelers all over here .
well come back early tomorrow with the other trailer to get the backhoe .
joseph found several whole geodes as they filled in the large hole , several of them the size of basketballs , but as he looked toward the trailer and the figure of the giant under the tarp , they just werent as exciting as they seemed the day before .
they had to drive very slowly over the rough terrain until they got back to the gravel road .
they stopped to tighten the straps .
look at that sunset , joseph marveled .
they stood there , looking back the way they had come as the sun settled behind the mountains .
dad put his arm around the shoulders of the boy .
what a vacation , huh ?
the best , replied joseph .
joseph watched the yellow lines in the middle of the road appear and disappear in the headlights in seemingly endless monotony as they drove through the darkness .
joseph leaned his head against the window of the truck to rest his weary eyes for a moment .
slowly , joseph became aware of flashing red and blue lights he looked out the window of the truck into the night sky to see a giant spacecraft with red and blue lights flashing above them .
he heard an ominous deep female metallic monotone voice release my baby !
joseph perceived that the truck was no longer moving .
he felt the truck and trailer being lifted off the road toward the alien craft .
he felt powerless to do anything .
he looked down toward the ground and closed his eyes , then slowly opened them .
when he looked up again the spacecraft was gone , but the flashing red and blue lights still illuminated the interior of the cab .
dont you know you cant haul wide loads after four pm ?
the highway patrolman demanded .
the flashing red and blue lights from the patrol car reflected off the mirrors and lit up the inside of the truck .
i must have been dreaming , joseph thought with great relief as he pinched his cheek to make sure he was really awake .
ill need your commercial drivers license , your wide load permit , proof of insurance , and the registration for the truck and the trailer .
oh yeah , ill also need your over length permit your load is hanging over the end of the trailer at least ten feet , the officer directed , as he walked to the back of the trailer and began untying the rope holding the tarp .
he flipped the tarp back and shined his flashlight at the feet of the robot hanging over the end of the trailer .
thomas watched him in the rear view mirror with dread as he got his commercial drivers license and insurance card from his wallet and the registrations from the clip on the sun visor .
whats your story ?
asked the patrolman , when he returned to the drivers door .
we found this giant space robot out in the middle of the desert and were going to take it to area 51 , announced joseph , with a tone of sober seriousness .
the officer paused for a moment as he involuntarily pursed his lips , as if he were trying to hold in some invisible force .
suddenly , a burst of air escaped , followed by an explosive thunder of laughter so powerful that tears were rolling down his cheeks by the time he finally , partially , regained his composure .
actually began dad , as the officer held up his hand .
i know interrupted the officer , still laughing a little .
tomorrow is the 4th of july and you are going to salt lake city for the parade and you couldnt get your float ready in time .
well continued dad , as the officer raised his hand again .
with another chuckle , the officer said , its okay ive heard that half the floats arent ready until the parade starts .
good luck and drive safe .
as he turned back toward his car they heard him say to himself , area 51 !
then they heard another restrained burst of laughter , i love it .
after tightening the tarp and the straps , they resumed their journey and were soon pulling onto the gravel country lane where they lived .
their place was a little twenty acre farmlet .
thomas loved trees so he had planted several hundred of them on the property years before , so now they had a nice secluded mountain feel to the place .
i think well back the whole trailer with the giant on it into the barn , said dad .
thomas had built it with a woodshop in the east wing , a truck shop in the lower portion of the center with a large loft above it , and a tinkering and welding shop in the west wing .
joseph jumped out of the truck to guide it into the barn .
ho !
he yelled when it was in the perfect spot .
well take a closer look at it when we get back tomorrow , said dad , as they closed the doors to the barn .
chapter three humanoid ?
joseph was awakened by the fabulous aroma of breakfast wafting through the house .
as he entered the kitchen , sharianna turned from the fridge and put a gallon of milk on the table .
we thought you were going to sleep all day .
where is dad ?
joseph asked , as he looked out the window toward the barn .
he left early this morning to get the backhoe , saying that you needed some sleep .
sit down and have some french toast , answered mom .
sophia put the source of the exquisite aroma on the table and sat down next to joseph .
tell us about your adventure , she encouraged , with authentic interest .
you have to come out and see this giant statue thing we found , joseph declared , as he began to rise from his chair .
i want to see it !
exclaimed sharianna , as she headed for the door .
mom put her hand on josephs shoulder .
it will still be there after breakfast .
come and sit down sharianna .
now , tell us everything , she entreated with earnestness .
she didnt tell joseph and sharianna that thomas couldnt wait to tell her everything and had even drug her out to the barn long before dawn to unveil the figure with all the excitement of a five year old on christmas morning .
they ate , and the girls listened intently .
finally , when breakfast was done and the whole adventure was fully expounded , mom said well , lets go out and see this strange thing .
prepare yourselves joseph admonished with great drama , as he opened the man door next to the two large main doors of the barn .
sharianna and mom stepped into the dim interior .
the aberration !
announced joseph , as he dramatical ly turned on the lights .
wow sophia had meant to let out an exaggerated gasp to go along with josephs theatrical introduction , but she realized that her amazement was as strong now , as when thomas had shown her the giant hours earlier .
joseph walked all around the figure showing them every detail .
see , it doesnt even dent or scratch .
he took a hammer from the workbench and banged it on the side of the figure .
joseph grabbed a stepladder off the wall and leaned it against the giant .
you have to look at it close up .
he swung a step stool over and climbed up .
putting his face against the side of the figure , he held his hands up to the sides of his face and peered into the depths .
like this .
sophia climbed the stepladder and peered into the metal .
it does look never ending , she concurred with amazement .
let me see , demanded sharianna , as she pulled on josephs pant leg .
he climbed down and let her have the stool .
i wonder what could be inside , mom mused mysteriously , as she climbed down the ladder and looked up at the figure .
maybe some treasure , or a message from another world .
she smiled as josephs face lit up .
she knew he loved mysteries , treasure , and adventure .
you think it might be from outer space ?
questioned sharianna , with excitement overflowing in her voice .
it might be , whispered mom furtively .
lets see if we can cut it open , proposed joseph , as he prepared the welding torch and put on the goggles and gloves .
he was proud that he was the only seventh grader he knew who could use a cutting torch and a welder .
after about five minutes of holding the flame to the side of the figure , joseph turned off the torch and looked at the metal .
its not even red .
sophia waved her hand over the metal , and then tentatively touched it .
its still cool , she observed with wonderment .
they heard the sound of wheels rolling over the gravel driveway .
that sounds like dad in the dump truck , announced joseph .
they turned and looked when the door opened and thomas stepped through .
looking at sophia in her nightgown he whistled loudly .
you pretty ... .
suddenly , his mouth dropped open as his eyes became riveted on the head of the giant figure lying on the trailer .
joseph , sharianna and mom turned to see a four foot round door silently slide open on the side of the giants head where there had previously been no seams or other indication that a door existed .
they could see light emanating from the interior .
thomas stepped forward and put a hand on shariannas shoulder and the other on josephs .
after a few moments of anxiously staring at the doorway , joseph deduced i think dads whistle activated it .
i think youre right , responded mom .
dad leaned the ladder up into the doorway .
stay here , he commanded , as he began to climb the ladder .
wait , what if there is something in there ?
mom questioned tensely .
i doubt it , it must have been buried for hundreds of years , dad replied with a casual tone , while his heart pounded in his throat as he continued up the ladder .
it looks like some kind of control room , and it is empty , called out dad , from the top of the ladder .
im going in .
he disappeared from their view as he stepped over the top rung of the ladder into the control room .
im coming up !
called out sharianna and joseph , almost simultaneously .
no , countered mom , as she caught them each by the arm , it could be dangerous .
dad stuck his head out the door .
it will be alright .
you can all come up .
i think it is safe as long as we dont touch anything .
joseph wanted to fly up the ladder to see what was inside but he stepped aside ill hold the ladder for you , mom .
josephs mom was so proud of him , she almost forgot her apprehension .
she stepped up eagerly .
she couldnt believe how curious she was to see the inside .
thank you , joseph .
will you hold the ladder for sharianna too ?
okay , agreed joseph , reluctantly .
sharianna smiled sweetly at joseph .
thank you , she condescended surreptitiously , as she paused with her foot on the bottom step and nodded her head as if she were a privileged royal princess , delighting in her preeminence over her subjects , and knowing that even the slightest delay was practically unbearable for joseph .
joseph was so excited to see the inside of the robot that he could hardly wait for sharianna .
she seemed to climb so slowly that he felt as if she might never reach the top .
he could bear it no longer when she paused near the top and glanced down at him with her smile .
joseph shook the ladder slightly and she scrambled quickly over the top .
joseph flew up the ladder so fast that he almost passed her in the doorway .
the interior was small , only about twelve feet across with two control chairs side by side , with joysticks on each armrest , positioned on the same level as the doorway .
directly behind the captains chairs , and two steps higher were two other chairs right against the back of the sphere , with the outline of an oval door between them .
directly in front of the control chairs and four steps lower was another small level with a sofa like bench .
there was a wide screen directly in front of the captains chairs , angled slightly like a desktop , with a beautiful display of earths solar system , the sun , and each of the planets with their moons .
earth was lit up .
it even showed the asteroid belt and the position of many comets .
below these screens were several lights labeled with strange symbols and pictures .
the entire wall in front of the chairs , from the midpoint of the ceiling all the way to the floor of the lower level and from the door on the left around to the right of the control chairs , was a huge curved view screen .
the view was so perfect that at first they thought the hull of the ship must be transparent from the inside .
in the exact center of the screen was a small red dot .
look .
dad pointed to the view screen .
they saw percy stop in the doorway of the barn and look in .
with a slight whine , he laid down .
thats remarkable , i could hear percy whine as if i were standing right with him , mom observed .
percy was black with a white patch on his chest and white paws .
their best guess was that he was half labrador retriever and half border collie .
they had found him a few years earlier , as a lost pup in the hills .
joseph sat down in the left control chair , then quickly stood up again and looked on the chair .
reaching out , he grabbed three beautiful , smooth , rounded stones and held them out for his dad to see .
interesting , dad commented .
look .
sharianna held out a similar stone .
i found this one right by the door .
what could they mean ?
puzzled mom .
a disconcerting thought occurred to joseph .
how could these round stones be sitting on the seat ?
someone left them there .
shariannas tone intimated why do you ask such stupid questions ?
joseph looked at his dad while rolling the stones around in his hand .
suddenly , dads jaw dropped and his eyes widened as he looked around the room a little nervously .
witnessing this strange interchange , moms penetrating look captured dads eye .
what ?
demanded mom with unquestiona ble authority .
the stones would have fallen off the seat during the crash landing , he explained .
maybe they were placed there after it landed , theorized sharianna .
but we rolled the robot completely over when we loaded it onto the trailer , countered joseph .
and the robot was lying on its face when we found itthe chairs would have been hanging upside down .
they must have landed on the chair when you rolled it over , proposed sharianna .
joseph looked up at the smooth , domed , ceiling .
when we found the robot , it was on its face if they were lying on the ceiling , then they would have slid along the curved surface as we rolled it over .
all four of them would have ended up on the floor by the door .
this time it was sharianna who looked around wondering who could have put the rocks on the chair since the day before .
well , i dont see any aliens in here now , mom stated , surely , if the ship was buried for hundreds of years there couldnt be anyone still on board .
could there ?
i wouldnt think so , replied dad .
dad sat down in the right control chair at the same time that sharianna made an attempt to slip past joseph and take the left .
joseph was slightly faster , and besides , he had been anticipating her move .
joseph set the stones on the console , as he settled into the chair .
every button and switch has some kind of symbols labeling it , observed sharianna .
yeah , but what do they mean ?
asked mom , as she leaned over joseph to get a better look .
as she looked at the console something occurred to her if thisship ?
was buried for hundreds of years , then why is everything in here so clean ?
shouldnt it be all dusty ?
the door was perfectly sealed , reasoned joseph .
then wouldnt the air be stale ?
she persisted .
thats a very good point , responded dad .
i think this he gestured at the ship with his hand while he looked at joseph , searching for the right descriptive word .
robo ship , interjected joseph .
yes , i think this robo ship has been fully functional the whole time it was buried .
it must have been maintaining a breathable atmosphere .
i can tell what these mean , declared joseph , pointing to the labels in front of the left joystick on his chair .
and these are exactly the same , observed dad , pointing to those on his chair .
surrounding each joystick were arrows pointing in different directions .
in the top of the joysticks , next to a roller button , were drawings of the robots hands .
on the console in between the seats was a switch with two drawings , one of the robot in a vertical position and the other horizontal .
joseph flipped the switch .
hey , dont touch anything , reiterated dad .
okay , replied joseph .
heres another one i can understand .
dad pointed to a large toggle switch between the chairs labeled with line drawings of a chair on each side of the switch .
im sure this one switches control from one chair to the other .
as he pointed to the switch , he reached out and flipped it in the direction of his chair .
hey !
mom tried to muster her scolding voice you said not to touch anything .
but her heart was pounding with the excitement of the adventure and new discovery and she realized that she liked it .
she really wanted to experiment and see what some of the controls and buttons would do .
a myriad of thoughts raced through her head all at once what if this ship really does work ?
where did it come from ?
who built it ?
why did it crash in the desert ?
where is its crew ?
were they really aliens ?
with this last thought , she looked at her husband and her son comfortably sitting in the control chairs .
they must have been humans , because the chairs and the controls fit you guys so well .
maybe theyre just humanoid , posed sharianna , as she looked at mom to see her reaction .
turning to look at the outline of the doorway between the rear seats , she said with a little trepidation do you think there could be remains of any of them in other parts of the ship ?
that would be cool !
joseph exclaimed .
they made their way to the door , look at the seal on this door , marveled joseph , as he ran his hand around the edges .
if it werent for the outline on the door and this push button you would never know there was a door here .
it looks like it is one continuous piece .
sharianna reached around joseph and pushed the button .
careful mom cautioned .
chapter four the creature the door seemed to disappear as it slid into the wall .
sharianna didnt want joseph to think she was scared , so she quickly slipped past him and entered the small corridor .
wait , sharianna , directed dad .
but she was so fast and the corridor was only a few feet long that she was already in another room when she stopped .
dad quickly bent down and followed her through the door .
this room was larger than the control room , about twelve feet wide and about twenty feet long .
it was illuminated in the same manner as the control room , and like the control room , the source of the illumination was a mystery .
it seemed to originate from everywhere and yet nowhere , and there were no shadows .
thomas stopped in the doorway , still bent over as he gazed into the room .
joseph was right behind , with his head bent slightly to one side .
he was not yet as tall as dad , but the ceiling of the hallway was still a little low for him .
hey , i cant see a thing , exclaimed joseph .
dad , youre blocking the whole door .
sophias heart leaped wildly when she heard sharianna suddenly scream .
her instincts flashed into action as she grabbed joseph from the corridor and flung him into the control room .
thomas was still blocking the doorway to the next room as she tore through the corridor .
they both went sprawling into the room as she collided with him in her headlong rush to save her daughter from unimaginable horror .
the world seemed to slow down as sophia flew through the air .
she turned her head to see sharianna standing to one side smiling .
sophia saw shariannas smile morph into an expression of consternation and the words , oohhh , oohhhh , in slow motion escape her lips .
unfortunately , sophias world resumed its normal speed as the words faded and she crashed on top of thomas with a thud .
sharianna !
what in the world demanded mom with displeasure .
joseph entered the room and looked at sharianna .
so sincerely sorry , stated sharianna seemingly somewhat sadly slightly sheepishly .
soon , she suddenly sensed some singularly surreptitious , shrewdly subtle silliness swiftly saturating said smile soliciting situation .
youre in trouble now , whispered joseph from the corner of his mouth , as they both stepped forward to help mom up .
are you okay mom ?
inquired joseph gallantly , as he reached out his hand .
thomas rolled over on his side in a relaxed position and , while bracing his head with his hand , watched the interaction with interest .
a restrained smile began to spread over his face and his cheeks puffed up as he tried to control the humor welling up inside of him .
joseph glanced past his mom as they were helping her up and was the first to see his dad still lying on the floor , nearly bursting with comedy .
he glanced over at sharianna , who was holding moms other hand and , catching her eye , motioned back at dad with a small movement of his head .
as shariannas eyes met her dads all her apprehension fled and was replaced with his contagious emotion .
simultaneously , all three inadvertently allowed a small laugh to escape , making the suppression of further laughter impossible .
as sophia stood up amid this raucous uproar she looked at her two children with consternation , then turned to see thomas attempting to maintain his unlikely appearance of complete composure on the floor , while barely able to keep his head propped up on his elbow , due to the involuntary convulsions of laughter .
sophia was suddenly infected by the mysterious pathogen of mirthmost of her aggravation was swept away .
i guess it may have been funny , this time , but you realize that it could have easily turned out quite bad and someone could have gotten seriously hurt , dont you sharianna ?
mom questioned , when she regained her composure .
dad continued to lie on the floor .
well have no more screaming or yelling , unless the house is on fire or someones life is in danger , okay ?
dads voice carried less than a convincing sternness as he looked from joseph to sharianna .
okay , agreed sharianna meekly .
hey , i was a victim here too , insisted joseph , feigning seriousness .
remember it for the future , warned mom .
i dont think ill forget this , smiled joseph with a final chuckle , as he thought about the hilarity of the event .
he looked at his mom in amazement and marveled that a woman so small could have such strength .
dad rolled over onto his back with an imperceptible moan and lay looking at the curved ceiling .
are you hurt ?
asked sharianna furtively , as she knelt down next to dad .
look , dad pointed at the curved ceiling .
he rubbed his knee and paused to answer her question no , im okay .
im so sorry dad , i didnt mean for you to get hurt .
i know , its okay , he consoled her .
now , look at the ceiling .
what do you think ?
it looks like another door , except it practically takes up the whole ceiling .
this must be a cargo area .
i think youre right , agreed dad .
joseph and mom had been looking at the walls of the room with interest .
they were smooth but were covered with the outlines of various sizes of square , rectangular , and even round shapes and each shape was labeled with a peculiar type of writing .
mom touched the label of one of the rectangles and out of the wall slid a drawer .
ah , storage space i like it .
she touched two more and they silently and smoothly slid out of the wall like the first .
whoa , hold on there , cautioned dad , as he stood up and stepped over to look at the drawers .
if we dont investigate , well never learn how it works , reasoned mom .
oh , so now you want to learn how it works ?
maybe we should even learn how to fly it ?
questioned dad .
of course , this is the most exciting thing we have ever done .
besides , as sharianna said , this is a cargo area how dangerous could it be ?
theres another door over there .
sharianna pointed to the far end of the oval room .
it must go into one of the robots legs , speculated joseph .
mom touched another label .
a crack appeared in the floor and a section of it began to rise up .
they stepped aside and the section of floor began to unfold into a counter .
on one side of the counter five strange shapes began to inflate .
theyre couches , guessed joseph , as he saw the long horizontal cylinders with one flat side for the seat and another , smaller cylinder for the back .
and lounge chairs , added sharianna , as three soft luxurious chairs emerged from the floor .
under the counter were many more drawers like the ones on the wall , except the fronts of them were transparent .
mom opened one and noticed that cold air flowed from it .
she opened several more and found some of them also to be refrigerated .
its kind of small in here , but it is organized very efficiently reminds me of the combined kitchen and living room in our first apartment , commented mom .
id say it was more like the motor home we rented when we went to yellowstone , dad added , except maybe a little bigger .
as they continued to investigate , they found strange looking containers in some of the drawers .
i think these are cooking or food storage containers , theorized mom .
this one is shaped like a frying pan , but it is not made of metal .
sharianna tapped it with her finger .
these are probably eating utensils .
joseph held up what looked like a pair of chopsticks made of an almost clear plastic type of material , except that they were hinged in the middle and had rings for the thumb and forefinger and the ends that picked up the food were flattened instead of round .
joseph used them deftly as he pretended to pick up and eat some food .
they work quite well , and they are easy to use .
this must be a kitchen , concluded mom .
but where are the sink , and the stove ?
dad sat down in one of the comfortable looking lounge chairs .
better than my recliner , he commented .
in fact , i have never been so comfortable in my life , he mused .
as if i am suspended in tangible comfort .
you know what i think is the strangest thing ?
mom pondered thoughtfully .
what ?
replied dad , from his supernal resting place .
there are no provisions .
maybe they had a machine that created their food for them , speculated sharianna .
or maybe they ate pills , theorized joseph .
mom would have put sherlock holmes to shame with her analysis of detail and her unsurpassed deductive abilities .
now , concerning josephs premise if they ate pills there would be no need for all this cooking equipment .
maybe they ate reconstituted food made from pills , coun tered joseph .
if they had the technology , and went to all the trouble to reduce their food to miniscule proportions , why not make it ready to eat when it is reconstituted ?
the same argument applies to shariannas premiseno need for a kitchen if your food is produced miraculously .
besides , there arent even any pills here .
mom continued her detective work and look here , these drawers are cold inside , like a refrigerator , and yet they are empty ... and perfectly clean .
so ... ?
joseph queried for further explanation of her conclu sions .
i think this ship was lost by mistake or by accident , even before its first planned trip , deduced mom .
what makes you think it was its first trip ?
marveled dad .
well , first off , it looks brand new , and second , if i were stocking the kitchen , i would have a variety of foodstuffs , some perishable and some not .
even if you cleaned out the kitchen after each trip , you wouldnt remove the long lived items like salt and pepper .
and the ship was unmanned when it was lost !
exclaimed joseph .
now its getting interesting .
and how do you deduce that ?
asked dad , looking at joseph .
there is nobody herealive or dead , he replied .
maybe they left when they landed , suggested dad .
but the ship did not land , it crashed , remember the crater ?
argued joseph .
maybe they buried their escape route when they left the ship .
or maybe it was covered by erosion , continued dad .
why would they leave their ship when it was still perfectly functional ?
josephs logic appeared to triumph .
sharianna seemingly shattered josephs logic when she pulled the smooth stone from her pocket and waved it in front of josephs face who moved the stones , she said mysteriously .
mom had moved over to the other door .
you forget , we havent searched the whole ship yet , there could still be aliens on board .
sophia wondered how she could feel two conflicting emotions so strongly and yet simultaneously .
why am i so apprehensive , and yet filled with such an overpowering need for more adventure ?
she thought to herself .
with that , she touched the large flat button on the door .
it slid into the wall , revealing a narrow hallway it was taller and narrower and longer than the first corridor .
in fact , it was tapered smaller at the floor than at the shoulders but it was tall enough for thomas to stand up straight .
along the walls of the corridor were more storage compartments and at the end was another door with a round window in it .
what do you see ?
asked dad , from the end of the line .
mom walked to the end of the corridor and looked through the small window in the other door a small room with two more doors , one at the end and one in the ceiling , she called back .
that one has to lead outside , concluded sharianna , pointing to the one in the ceiling .
we are in the leg of the robot , so the other door must go into the foot .
sophia opened the door and at that very moment she had the most unusual desire to scream .
she could not explain this adolescent desire for drama even if she had to .
she capitulated to the desire at the very same time she told herself it was ridiculous and irresponsible , especially after the tongue lashing she had given sharianna .
she tried to suck it back in , but some of it had escaped more like a loud gasp than a scream .
this time thomas heart leaped but before he had time to act he heard sharianna , who was right behind mom and could see into the doorway , mom !
i cant believe you !
sorry .
i couldnt resist , confessed mom .
whats the punishment for crying wolf ?
huh dad ?
de manded joseph in a loud stern voice , as he looked back at dad with a smile .
ill have to think of a good one , replied dad loudly , with a wink .
mom stepped across the small room and opened the oposite door .
i think it might be a bathroom , called mom , but it has a steeply sloped floor .
she stepped into the small room expecting to climb up the floor but to her surprise , the floor suddenly seemed level to her .
the upper part of one wall was as reflective as a mirror , but it seemed to be a continuous part of the wall .
it was the seat jutting out from the wall with an elongated hole in it that gave it away as a bathroom .
at the far end of the room was a strange looking gold dial on the wall .
but where is the sink ?
she thought to herself .
mom , said sharianna in an apprehensive voice .
sophia turned and looked back into the hallway to discover that while the bathroom floor was now level from her perspec tive , the hallway floor now seemed inclined .
mom , youre leaning .
no , youre all leaning .
thats weird , declared joseph , as sharianna stepped into the room next to her mom and he saw her orientation shift .
come in , said sharianna , with a wave of her hand .
joseph also stepped into the tiny room , expecting something strange , but he experienced nothing it all seemed normal like stepping through any other doorway .
okay , mrs. detective , explain that , challenged dad , as he stood in the doorway .
joseph began to develop a theory by stating the facts we are in the foot .
and the foot is pointed rearward with the bottom of the foot sloping upward , added mom .
the ship must be able to manipulate gravity so that we are always standing straight up , no matter what our orientation to the earth is , concluded sharianna , with smug satisfaction .
how old are you ?
asked dad with a smile .
then it must have artificial gravity when in space !
joseph deduced .
that must be why the round stones were still on the seat .
the ship maintained the gravity according to its orientation , not the earth , reasoned mom with obvious relief , as she realized that the stones on the seat did not mean there were aliens on board .
but why were they there in the first place ?
she wondered .
dad crowded into the small room .
joseph stood looking at a gold colored pipe that curved downward from the lower part of the mirror section .
that must be the faucet .
but there is no sink argued sharianna , as joseph reached out and put his hand under the pipe .
water suddenly gushed out onto his hand and he jerked it back in time for everyone to see the water miraculously flow through mid air and disappear into the wall below the faucet .
whoa , said joseph softly .
i guess you dont need a sink .
he elbowed sharianna discretely for emphasis .
wow !
exclaimed dad .
it must be able to manipulate gravity in a very specific way .
sharianna reached out and touched one of the labels on either side of the faucet .
a wide shallow drawer silently slid out of the wall .
more storage .
mom stepped to the back of the room and turned a strange looking gold dial on the wall .
to her surprise , she was suddenly getting soaked with water spraying directly out of the ceiling and the wall , even though there were no spray heads .
sharianna saw the water spraying on mom and stepped back instinctively .
as the water sprayed toward her it seemed to be hitting some kind of transparent partition .
she reached out her hand to touch it , but only felt the water spraying on her hand as it passed through where she thought the partition was .
she quickly pulled her hand back in surprise , and was shocked to discover that it was dry .
mom quickly turned the dial back to its original position and turned to look at her family .
i think i found the shower , she said , looking very humble , and soaking wet .
i think ill go get some dry clothes .
she took a step toward sharianna , but as she passed the point where the invisible barrier had been , she was suddenly dryeven her hair was dry and fluffy .
sophia felt her arms in amazement you dont even need a towel !
incredible !
exclaimed dad .
there must be some kind of invisible barrier that prevents only the water from passing through , keeping it in the shower area .
mom looked at the floor of the shower area that was now completely dry .
there is not even a drain where does the water go ?
the water seemed to be absorbed directly into the floor , explained joseph .
shhh .
listen , whispered dad earnestly , with his finger to his lips .
they could hear sounds emanating from the control room .
dad turned to face the intruder down the hallway , his body blocking the familys whole view .
they could hear the faint sound of rapid breathing and a strange clicking sound .
it sounds like claws on the floor , whispered joseph .
its getting closer .
sharianna breathed nearly silently while her heart seemed to make a loud racket , pounding in her chest .
quiet , she thought silently to her palpitating heart .
dad stepped to the corridor , hands clenched into tight fists , his knees bent , ready to attack anything that should appear at the other end of the corridor .
sophia looked at his back as he filled the narrow corridor .
suddenly she felt a great swelling of love for this man who would fight for his family .
at that moment the creature creating the sounds came into thomass view at the end of the corridor .
thomas charged down the length of the hall , with joseph at his heels .
he tackled the creature and rolled off to one side .
it all happened so fast that sophia didnt have time to react .
when joseph disappeared around the edge of the doorway , she suddenly sprang to life .
pushing past sharianna , she raced down the hall amid the sounds of ferocious battle and terrible growling .
sophia burst upon the scene of battle and leaped toward the rolling mass of flashing teeth and black and white fur , and thomas .
she suddenly stopped .
percy !
thomas !
she yelled , when she saw dad and percy rolling around in mock battle , both of them growling like wild , ferocious beasts .
i think there is just a little too much goofing around in this family !
scolded sharianna , as she stood in the doorway with her hands on her hips .
chapter five the neanderthal twins joseph woke with the sunlight streaming through his window it split and refracted into different colors as it struck his crystal collection on the windowsill .
the morning was particularly quiet all he could hear was the occasional raspy cry of a magpie in the tree in the yard .
from his window , joseph could see through the trees , across the backyard , to the barn .
on his way to the barn he made a compulsory stop in the kitchen .
on the counter was a note went with grandma to the doctorill be back this afternoon .
mom .
joseph opened the cupboard and stared blankly at the granola , cheerios , and cornflakes .
as he stood , wondering why they couldnt have something that tasted better , he suddenly seemed to hear his moms voice in his head you might as well give your kids a candy bar for breakfast as feed them those sugar cereals .
he opened the pantry , but there were no candy bars , so he turned to the fridge .
there , on the middle shelf , was a huge piece of carrot cake with thick cream cheese frosting .
just as good as a candy bar , he thought , as he reached for the cake .
taped to one of the rungs of the ladder leading to the control room of the ship was a note from dad dont touch the controls .
joseph sat down in one of the comfortable chairs in the lounge area of the cargo bay and enjoyed the last of his cake .
he felt so relaxed , as if he were almost floating in the air .
he glanced down the hallway toward the bathroom that they had discovered the day before .
as he looked , he noticed that a section of one side of the hallway wall was not covered with storage compartments .
instead , there was a single label .
he got up and pressed the label .
the wall rolled back and revealed eight strange looking overalls hanging from a rack .
they were clear and seemed quite large .
they reminded joseph of the huge overalls that painters sometimes wear , except that these were almost transparent and had a strange looking hoodie attached to them .
no , they look like some kind of one piece haz mat suit , he thought to himself .
at the wrist , elbows , knees shoulders , hips and feet were pieces of the same metal as the hull of the ship .
the pieces on the wrist were about three inches long and two inches wide .
the rest of the pieces were about the size of an old time silver dollar .
maybe they are spacesuits !
commented joseph out loud .
he looked around for air tanks but could not find any .
he pulled one of them off the rack and began to try it on .
he felt like he was putting on a giant pajama sleeper because it was open from the hood all the way down to one ankle .
but he could not see any zipper , snaps or other way to close it .
he pulled the edges of the suit together where the zipper should have been .
at that moment , sharianna appeared in the doorway .
she gasped at what she saw as soon as the two edges of the suit touched each other , they stuck together , like two magnets .
it seemed to joseph that there was a magical , or invisible , zipper automatically going both directions .
sharianna screamed as she saw the suit zip up by itself .
at the same time it began to shrink , until it fit perfectly snug on all of josephs body with the exception of his head , which had about a half inch clearance all around .
the more it shrunk , the more clear the material became until it was virtually invisible , except for the small pieces of metal .
hey , it fits , proclaimed joseph , apparently calm , except for an almost imperceptible squeak in his voice that gave away some of his nervousness .
can you breathe ?
questioned sharianna .
yes .
can you move ?
yes , he answered , as he took a step toward her .
without warning , his mouth dropped open and his hands shot to his neck he mouthed the words help me .
sharianna instantly jumped toward him and tore at the invisible suit , pulling on the material where the zipper should have been , only to have it stretch and flex , but not come apart .
suddenly , joseph burst into laughter .
thats not funny !
she scolded , as she gave him a shove .
yes it is , joseph replied , still chuckling .
it feels like im not even wearing it !
exclaimed joseph , as he moved his arms and jumped up and down .
joseph pulled on the material with both hands where it had gone together and it easily pulled apart .
when he let it go , it resealed itself .
how come it wouldnt come apart when i pulled on it ?
demanded sharianna .
joseph pulled the seal apart again .
i dont know .
maybe it only responds to itself .
joseph held up his hands and sharianna pulled on one of his fingers .
as the material stretched she observed its like a latex glove .
except that its clear , responded joseph .
sharianna touched the invisible material that covered jo sephs face .
its hard .
how come i can hear your voice like normal ?
it isnt muffled or anything .
i dont know .
do you think its a spacesuit ?
she asked .
i couldnt find any oxygen tanks , he replied .
i dont know if it takes the air from outside , or if it uses what is already in here .
sharianna began to put on one of the other suits .
i know how to find out .
how ?
asked joseph .
follow me .
they got their bikes from the garage .
where are we going ?
asked joseph .
to the lake .
they called it a lake even though it was really a reservoir .
as they rode down the road , joseph noticed that he couldnt even tell that sharianna was wearing the alien suit over her regular clothes , except that her hair looked kind of flat and did not blow in the wind .
wait !
called joseph , as he stopped on the side of the road .
lets take the bike trail along the creek .
yeah , less chance of being seen , sharianna concurred .
they were about halfway to the lake , riding side by side , when they noticed two motorbikes coming the other way .
oh no .
its the goony twins , moaned joseph .
i hate those bullies .
sharianna shared josephs contempt for the twins .
just keep on riding and ignore them , cautioned joseph .
as they approached each other , the riders on the motorcycles suddenly slammed on their back brakes and skidded sideways , blocking the entire path .
joseph and sharianna could barely stop before they plowed right into them .
look , its the wash rats .
don spat into the dust as he spoke the derogatory words .
hey , where did you find those old pieces of trash ?
dan sneered , as he looked at their bikes .
the thrift store ?
no , the landfill , countered don .
didnt you know thats where they get everything ?
yeah , your parents drive old junk , so why wouldnt you ?
joseph felt a surge of anger .
it was true , that their bikes were old , but they were still in good shape .
sophia and thomas had bought them new with the intent to ride them regularly even before joseph and sharianna were born , but they had sat idle in the basement until joseph and sharianna were old enough to ride .
i thought we told you that this was our personal bike trail , mocked dan .
i guess youll just have to pay , echoed his brother .
leave us alone !
commanded sharianna sharply , as she tried to ride around the bullies .
dan gunned his motorcycle and bumped into her front tire , knocking her down .
or what ?
he taunted , laughing .
joseph was fuming mad now as he got off his bike .
leave her alone !
he yelled .
oooh , look at the big tough man , jeered don , as he flipped his kickstand and got off his motorcycle .
whatcha gon na do about it ?
he scoffed , in a challenging voice with a disdainful upward nod of his chin .
he stepped toward joseph with his elbows out , fists clenched and his chest puffed out .
joseph looked up at the twin that dwarfed him by more than a foot in width as well as height .
he wondered if david was this scared when he stood up to goliath .
the difference was that david had a sling and didnt have to grapple with the giant , while joseph had nothing .
joseph glanced at sharianna , still on the ground .
he saw her hand curl around a baseball size rock with a long jagged point as she stood up and faced the other hulking twin .
dan got off his motorcycle and came toward sharianna , but stopped when he saw the jagged shard protruding from her fist .
what are you gon na do ?
stick me with that ?
he asked .
yes i am , she retorted calmly , with determination flashing from her eyes .
dan took a step back .
bullies , even big bullies , are usually only bullies when others cower .
by this time , don had covered the distance to joseph with a couple of giant size steps .
i dont want to fight , insisted joseph .
good , replied don , as he faked with his left while swing ing a ham sized right that caught joseph square in the face .
in the split second before the impact joseph winced in anticipated painbut he felt nothing .
instead , he heard don groan in agony .
don stepped back as he cradled his injured hand .
the encounter was so intense for joseph that he had momen tarily forgotten that he was wearing the alien suit .
immediately , he realized that the helmet had reflected the force of dons punch .
dan turned from sharianna toward joseph .
sharianna picked up her bike and looked at the front tire , it was a little bent but looked like it would still roll .
she pushed it between the two motorbikes and jumped on .
come on joseph !
lets go !
joseph jumped back on his bike and made for the gap be tween the motorcycles .
dan leaped over and gave joseph a shove on the shoulder .
as joseph fell , he crashed into one of the motorcycles , knocking it down .
both the hulking neanderthals now leaped toward joseph with the intent to really teach him a lesson .
in desperation , joseph swung as hard as he could at dans gut .
dan doubled over in pain as his feet lifted off the ground and he landed on the other motorcycle , knocking it to the ground .
realizing that the suit must be enhancing his strength , joseph turned with a little more confidence as don swung at him with his good hand .
joseph caught his fist as if it were softball , pulled don toward him and grabbed him by the belt and tossed him onto the heap that was his brother .
sharianna had stopped and witnessed the interchange with amazement .
are you going to leave us alone ?
joseph demanded , pointing at the pile of bully with a squeak in his voice from the adrenaline .
the two bullies meekly nodded .
as joseph rode away with sharianna , dan said with a moan i think hes been taking karate lessons .
don rubbed his hand .
hes got a hard head .
lets keep this to ourselves .
wow !
exclaimed sharianna , as they rode down the trail .
how did you do that ?
adrenaline .
you dont think it was the suit ?
probably , joseph replied .
dan did feel a lot lighter than i expected , when i threw him on top of don .
wasnt it don you threw onto dan ?
whats the diff ?
goons are goons , quipped joseph , as they both laughed .
when they approached the lake , joseph turned onto a barely discernable trail that appeared to lead away from the lake , but in reality doubled back to a secluded alcove nestled between some low cliffs .
the trail was strewn with rocks , branches and the occasional fallen tree .
sharianna could see her front wheel wobbling , and wondered if it would hold up as she bunny hopped over the logs that blocked the path .
she was impressed by her own ability to climb , without even stopping , right up the big rocky hill that protected the alcove from most other casual explorers .
usually , she had to push her heavy bike up the hill it really wasnt that heavy , only when compared to the new super light composite bikes some of the other kids had at school .
sharianna loved to shop with her mom and still enjoyed imagining that she was a princess , but she also loved the outdoors and this was her favorite swimming spot on the whole lake it was worth the trouble it took to reach it .
how about that ?
i didnt have to stop , even once , shariana bragged , as she probed for a compliment .
yeah , i didnt have to either , commented joseph , as he stashed his bike in some bushes .
sharianna hid her bike too , and followed joseph to the edge of the small cliff that overlooked the alcove .
it was only about ten feet high , but always looked a little too formidable to her .
she was a good swimmer , but the water was so clear in this spot that she could see the rocks on the bottom , and she had to admit , that was a little too scary .
joseph stepped to the edge and looked down at the rocks on the bottom .
they looked very close to the surface , but he knew they were over twelve feet deep , because one time he had tied both his and shariannas fishing poles together and probed the depths with it .
if you can beat the cro magnon twins then why are you scared of a little cliff ?
he silently asked himself .
josephs heart was pounding as he took a few steps back and , with a quick run , leaped off the cliff .
as he was flying through the air , it occurred to him how strange it was to be jumping in fully clothed .
normally , when they came to the lake on a warm summer day they would wear their swimsuits .
joseph took a deep involuntary breath and closed his eyes a moment before he plunged into the water .
it was a very odd sensation for joseph as he felt the water flow over his body without feeling its wetness .
he opened his eyes and exhaled then he forced himself to take a small breath .
the euphoria that flowed through him was a singularly unique emotion .
he realized that he really could breathe under water .
he wanted to explore the whole lake .
sharianna watched as he splashed feet first into the water .
the splash and the ripples momentarily made it so she could no longer see the bottom .
as the ripples cleared , she looked and saw joseph swimming around among the large boulders on the bottom .
finally , after what seemed like a long time , he made a lazy ascent .
when his head slowly broke through the surface , she could see an enormous smile .
well ?
she inquired .
see for yourself , proposed joseph , with a wave of his hand .
i dare you .
the call of exploration , and josephs challenge , was too great for sharianna .
overcoming her fear , she took a running leap and screamed , with both exhilaration and trepidation , as she flew through the air and plunged into the cold waterexcept that it didnt feel cold .
sharianna involuntarily held her breath until she reached the surface , and then she took a deep breath .
you dont have to hold your breath , you know , joseph informed her .
i couldnt help it .
sharianna was an excellent swimmer , so she dove down and swam toward the bottom , and then without stopping she began to swim toward deeper water .
joseph was hard pressed to keep up with her .
sharianna stopped and pointed to a hollow under a large boulder .
look , she mouthed the word .
there , resting in the shade , sat an enormous catfish .
joseph swam toward the huge whiskered beast but it darted swiftly away into deeper water .
whiskers , come back here , coaxed joseph .
hey , i can hear you , even though were under water , sharianna exclaimed .
cool !
there must be some kind of walkie talkie built right into the suits , replied joseph .
as they swam along the shore , they could hear splashing and discovered that five of their friends from school were playing near the shore .
the water was a little murky from all their splashing about .
sharianna smiled as she got a mischievous idea .
she motioned to joseph and reached out as if she were grabbing some imaginary legs .
joseph smiled wide and with a nod swam toward their unsuspecting friends .
pandemonium reigned when alison screamed in utter terror .
something has a hold of me !
she screamed , as joseph grabbed onto her ankle and didnt let go .
slowly , he dragged her a couple of feet toward deeper water , before relinquishing his grip .
as she scrambled to get away , he momentarily grabbed her other ankle , creating even more panic .
at about the same time , sharianna grabbed cameron , who also panicked .
the others had no choice but to believe that something was attacking their friends because their screams were so real and unexpected .
they all stampeded for shore .
joseph and sharianna swam away right on the bottom , until they got behind a boulder a short distance away , where they surfaced to watch their panicked friends scramble out of the water .
cameron screamed like a little girl , joseph commented , in between laughs .
so did alison , giggled sharianna .
she is a girl .
i know , but she sure did scream , didnt she ?
i cant wait to hear them tell the story of how they were almost dragged down into the lake by some horrible monster , laughed joseph .
yeah , me too !
agreed sharianna .
wed better be getting home i forgot to leave a note for mom and dad .
chapter six a test try , not a test fly .
when are we going to take the robot out for a test try ?
huh dad ?
queried joseph .
yeah , dad .
you said wed take it out after investigating the interior , pressed sharianna .
mom looked across the breakfast table at dad as he looked up from his notes .
why not today ?
she asked .
i dont think we can learn another thing until we experiment some more .
dad glanced out the window toward the tarp covering the big hole in the side of the barn and the hole in the roof that resulted from his last attempt to experiment with the cabin controls .
a wry smile spread across josephs face as he interrupted dads pondering at least we know two of the controls the arm ... and firing the laser beam .
and its a good thing the robot was on its back and facing the sky , or someones house might have been destroyed with that laser , observed dad .
but it only put an eight inch hole in the roof , argued mom .
only an eight inch hole ?
dad got a worried look on his face as he contemplated the damage that could be done with the robot , if the wrong people gained control of it .
lets take it out of the barn and experiment in the yard .
that way it wont destroy the barn , sharianna suggested .
its forty seven feet tall !
someone would surely see it , dad countered .
thats with its toes pointed .
ill bet its not more than forty two feet standing flat footed , returned joseph .
thats only about the same length as our school bus .
thats still taller than a three story building , argued dad .
but our trees give us some privacy .
besides , our nearest neighbors are a quarter of a mile away .
and the robot does not make any noise when it moves , reasoned mom .
dad declared , with a tone of finality unless you smash something besides , im sure you could still see the head through the tree tops .
what if someone were to come over ?
its just too risky .
joseph looked at mom , then back to sharianna with a look of do something .
what about at night ?
the robot looks almost black .
nobody could see it unless they were right here in the yardand we could lock the front gate , begged sharianna in her sweetest voice , while looking at her dad with her big green eyes and her beautiful smile .
he melted i guess that would work , he conceded , all his defensive posture now dissipated .
think you kids can stay up till two am ?
dad , this is more exciting than christmas !
exclaimed sharianna .
and you cant stay up for that , joseph teased .
youre not supposed to , she retorted .
at dusk , thomas locked the front gate , then hitched up the trailer and pulled the robot out of the barn .
he didnt want to take the chance of waking any neighbors with the noise of the dump truck in the middle of the night .
he looked around and was glad they had planted so many trees years earlier .
the large barn blocked most of the view of the neighbors from one side , while the trees created a pretty good screen with only a few gaps on the other sides .
he was pretty confident that with the cover of night they would not be detected .
sophia came out of the house carrying grocery bags , with sharianna carrying her sleeping bag and a large soft body pillow , almost as large as herself .
dad looked at them with a quizzical look .
if we have to wait till two , then im going to be comforta ble , sharianna emphasized .
theres four more bags on the kitchen table , directed mom , and grab my purse .
were just going to experiment a little with the controls , groaned dad .
just a few snacks and some food for breakfast im going to try out the kitchen in the morning , she replied , as she walked past him without pausing .
what use is a kitchen if there is no food in it ?
she reasoned .
as dad was heading for the house , joseph emerged carrying a huge fluffy beanbag .
dad held out both his hands with a silent expression of now what are you doing ?
joseph tossed the bean chair into his hands .
thanks dad , he said , as he turned back into the house to get his ipod .
this wont even fit through the door !
exclaimed dad .
you just have to stuff it through .
itll fit , called joseph , as the screen door closed behind him .
finally , everyone had everything they thought they might need for the night .
dad slipped into one of the captains chairs and continued to study his notes , comparing them with the buttons , switches and controls .
whats first ?
asked sharianna , as she sat in the other captains chair .
i think i have figured out how to make it stand up .
then we will try taking a few slow steps and maybe try out the hands to see if we can pick something up .
then well fly ?
she asked eagerly .
no .
no flying .
daaaaad nope .
nooo flying .
awwww , she moaned in a disappointed , begging voice .
we need to master ground travel first .
hey , what about percy ?
asked joseph , through a mouthful of doritos as he emerged from the hallway .
im not going to carry him down the ladder again , com plained dad .
you only carried him about halfway down , retorted sharianna , with a tiny restrained laugh .
dad smiled , okay , im not going to fall down the ladder with him again .
you wont need to .
once the robot is off the trailer , well be able to walk right out the ankle door , onto the foot , joseph replied .
dad looked at the view screen on the wall where he could see percy with a very sad looking face sitting at the bottom of the ladder .
okay , but youre in charge of him .
joseph stepped to the doorway .
here boy , come on percy !
percy seemed to smile as he jumped up and began climbing the ladder .
thomas always marveled how easy it was to read percys emotions .
and some people say animals dont have emotions !
when percy reached the top , joseph tossed him a dorito .
i think that dog eats more people food than dog food , observed mom from the doorway .
anyone else want some more people food ?
nachos ?
chips ?
three yess and one bark told her she hadnt wasted her time .
what time is it ?
joseph asked .
about eleven , replied mom .
t minus three hours to launch , he announced .
do we really have to wait until two am ?
t minus three hours to walk , countered sharianna .
were not going to fly it tonight , she explained in response to josephs questioning expression .
i thought we were going to test fly it , stated joseph , looking from sharianna to dad .
no , i agreed to a test try , not a test fly , dad corrected .
chapter seven look out !
thomas straightened up and looked around as he left the small passageway from the control room and entered the cargo bay , which was now transformed into the kitchen and living room .
he wondered why the builders of the robot had made this corridor so small .
maybe they were small people , he thought to himself .
or maybe they were just conserving space .
he shrugged his shoulders to himself and let his eye scan the small , yet well organized room .
it had been unusually quiet for a while .
sophia was asleep on the sofa .
joseph and percy seemed almost enveloped in the giant beanbag .
percy opened one eye and watched thomas with a tiny little wag in his tail .
too comfortable to even open both eyes , huh boy ?
he thought .
sharianna was asleep on her big pillow with her old fash ioned cinderella alarm clock next to her on the floor .
he remembered when she had gotten it on the beautiful trip they had taken to disneyland when she was only six .
she was dressed in her princess dress exuding with thrilling excitement to meet the princesses and get their autographs .
im a lucky man , he said to himself , as he thought of all the great times spent with sophia and their kids .
the loud clanging of the alarm clocks hammer bouncing between the two shiny chrome bells , advertising that it was five to two , shattered his reminiscence .
sharianna jumped up , grabbed the alarm clock and rushed past dad .
lets go , its almost two , she announced energetically .
joseph continued to lay on the bean bag , he spread his arms wide with a big yawn and seemed to be falling back to sleep , when he suddenly realized what sharianna was up to .
he sprang to life so fast that he almost caught up to her by the time she leaped into one of the captains chairs .
thomas looked through the doorway to see who had won the coveted seat .
lets see if you can drive this thing as good as all your study should warrant , teased sophia , as she came up behind him and put her hand on his arm .
okay , looks like shariannas advance planning paid off , declared dad , as he motioned to joseph to vacate the other captains chair .
daaad , complained joseph .
dad motioned his head toward the empty chair next to mom at the back of the control room .
sharianna was smiling from ear to ear .
she bounced up and down a little in her seat , overflowing with anticipation .
everyone put on your seat belts , instructed mom .
these arent seat belts , theyre just cargo straps slung under the seats , criticized joseph .
id hate to imagine what would happen if your dad tripped and fell .
yeah dad , youre just a baby learning to walk , teased sharianna .
thats right , replied dad .
he looked back at sophia and blew her a kiss .
he knew she was as excited as the kids , but she was still willing to let sharianna have the copilots seat .
sophia looked around the little spherical control room .
on the view screen she could see the clear starlit sky .
she was apprehensive , but her anxiety was drowned in comparison to her anticipation of adventure .
ready ?
looks like we have a full moon tonight i hope no one can see our silhouette .
dad very slowly pushed on the right joystick .
from the view screen in front of them they could tell that the robot had sat up on the trailer , but they could feel no sense of movement .
a little bit more still no sense of movement , but they heard the trailer creek .
the robot was standing on the back of the trailer , which was now pushed all the way to the ground , creating a pivot point at the axels with the hitch actually lifting the back of the dump truck off the ground .
whoa , did you feel that ?
better keep your cargo straps on , teased joseph , as he looked at his mom for a reaction .
now , i think this should make it walk forward .
dad slowly pushed forward on the stick again .
as the robot stepped off the trailer , they heard a loud noise as the back of the dump truck came crashing to the ground .
their eyes were riveted to the view screen watching for any sign that the neighbors had heard the loud noise .
they involuntarily held their breath .
sharianna noticed that her hand was close to the switch on the console that had the pictures of the robot standing and flying .
almost without conscious thought , she reached out with her pinky and flipped the switch .
from the corner of his eye , joseph saw the slight movement of her hand .
dad breathed out , i think were safe , it seems that no one heard the noise .
feeling more confident , he pushed on the stick again .
thomas was concentrating on the bottom of the screen in order to see where the feet of the robot would be placed .
suddenly , the earth under the robot seemed to melt away and was replaced by a shrinking view of the scattered lights in their neighborhood , with the city lights in the distance .
were flying !
declared joseph .
thomas eased back on the lever and the robot stopped and hovered in the air .
incredible , mom gasped .
i didnt feel any g force at all !
observed joseph .
i bet this is faster than a rocket !
exclaimed sharianna , brimming with excitement .
dad looked at the switch on the console , and then turned to sharianna .
did you flip that switch ?
before she could reply , mom screamed look out !
and pointed at the view screen .
dad turned to see a flashing green light on one side and a flashing red light on the other with a white light right in the middle .
within a fraction of a second he realized that a 747 was flying directly at them .
another split second and he could actually see the pilot and the copilot and a stewardess standing at the door of the cockpit .
he could see so clearly that he read the lips of the copilot as he yelled look out !
and saw him grab for the controls .
joseph grabbed onto percys collar and winced as he braced for the impact .
im in trouble now .
a myriad of thoughts raced through shariannas head what a stupid thought were all going to die and im worried about being in trouble ?
i guess its true that time seems to slow down just before you die .
maybe your thoughts just speed up ?
she shivered as she took a deep breath as if it were her last , before plunging forever into deep , dark , freezing water .
i love you all , called out mom softly .
chapter eight fake moon landings ?
thomas slammed the control stick all the way forward and the 747 almost instantly disappeared .
the lights of the city dwindled to a speck and became another small point of light with all the other points of light from cities scattered across the northern hemisphere .
as the earth seemed to recede , they saw the sun appear on one side of the screen with the entire outline of the earth on the other .
the western united states was still shrouded in darkness , but they could see the first rays of the sun reaching the eastern seaboard and shimmering on the north atlantic .
they could see over the north pole and , still bathed in daylight , all the way from northwestern russia , scandinavia , britain , iceland , greenland , and the edge of northwest africa .
the amazing splendor of the blue ocean , the deep green near the equator and the beautiful sand color of the deserts in africa overlaid with swirls and wisps of clouds here and there was truly astonishing .
the earth continued to rapidly shrink until dad released the control stick from his death grip .
his hand shook a little as he exhaled with his whole body .
the earth was now down near the bottom of the screen .
joseph pointed up at the ceiling .
look at the moon it looks as big as the earth .
sophias heart palpitated wildly , like an untamed animal trapped in a cage , trying to escape .
she continued his thought if the moon is one third the size of the earth and it appears as big as the earth then that must mean we are two thirds the way to the moon !
joseph exclaimed .
dad twisted the control stick ever so slightly and the robot rotated until the earth had moved to the center of the screen .
it was so clear and so beautiful that it seemed they were standing outside on the hull of the ship .
they sat in stunned silence , gazing at the earth for a few minutes .
sophia could feel the pounding of her heart begin to slow down , but the rush of adrenaline still hadnt worn off yet .
other than the near death experience , i think i could get used to this , she thought .
suddenly , sharianna thought maybe im still in trouble , now that were not dead .
she turned to mom .
i love you too .
turning back to dad , and you too daddy , im sorry .
thomas looked at sharianna .
he could see tears in her eyes .
he hadnt been called daddy for several years .
its okay princess .
maybe we can learn to fly before we walk .
wow !
what do you think those pilots and the flight at tendant are saying right now ?
mused joseph .
uh tower we had a near miss with auh , giant man , uh , robot thing that shot out into space .
sharianna started laughing through her tears , followed by mom and dad .
not if they want to keep their jobs , laughed dad .
ill bet they dont think its funny .
i hope they dont need too much counseling after tonight , mom commented , a little bit more seriously .
percy could sense the wild swings of emotion , from exhilara tion to stark fear then relief , elation , awe and finally , laughter .
he looked up at joseph with a quick bark and a wag of his tail .
thats right , boy , were still alive , comforted joseph , as he reached down and rubbed him behind the ears .
i guess we wont need these , concluded joseph , as he released his cargo strap seatbelt .
the artificial gravity must be able to compen sate for g force .
it was really strange to accelerate so fast without any sense of motion .
almost like watching a movie .
yeah , a movie that could kill you , replied sharianna .
dad was in total control the whole time .
werent you dad ?
asserted joseph .
yeah dad agreed slowly , without a hint of conviction .
he slowly twisted the control stick the other way , and the moon came back into view .
dad ?
yes ?
you know that old movie where they faked the lunar landing yes .
well , didnt they leave the bottom part of the lunar lander there ?
asked joseph .
they left a flag too !
sharianna added with excitement , knowing what joseph was leading up to .
and the moon buggy they rode in , continued joseph .
dad raised his eyebrows and looked back at sophia .
on our first trip ?
and that one accidental ?
but she could not disguise the note of excitement that found its way into her words .
ah ha !
youre my witnesses mom has turned into an adventurer !
maybe you could use a little more flight experience before you try to land in our yard i dont want you to smash our house .
and besides , we are already two thirds the way there , right ?
she looked at joseph with these last words and he smiled from ear to ear .
looking back at thomas , she quoted her favorite christmas show george lassos the moon !
dad slowly pushed forward on the control stick soon the moon appeared to be getting larger .
look out man in the moon , here we come .
he pushed on the stick a little more .
is that a cloud ?
asked sharianna .
there are no clouds in space , declared joseph .
immediately , they heard a sound like hail pounding on the hull of the ship .
dad pulled back on the stick .
floating all around them , they saw small rocks ranging in size from basketballs down to particles of dust .
some of them are sparkly , observed sharianna .
what are they made of ?
joseph , youre our rock expert , acknowledged mom .
a lot are made of iron , mica and other minerals but i think most are just rocks .
hey , i remember hearing something about how lucky the moon missions were that they didnt encounter any severe solar wind from sun flares or asteroid storms .
if they had , they probably would have been destroyed , concluded dad .
how can there be wind or storms in space , if there is no air ?
questioned joseph .
i think the wind refers to the small particles and radiation that are thrown out by the sun , especially during solar flare ups , thomas replied .
the storms refer to debris trails left by comets .
some of those asteroids look pretty big do you think they can damage the ship ?
asked mom , nervously .
i doubt it began dad .
joseph interrupted it crashed in the desert making a great big crater but there was still not a scratch or dent on it ill bet that was one powerful impact !
i guess youre right , conceded mom .
can we take one of the shiny ones home ?
asked sharianna .
the thought excited joseph .
dad , do you think you could grab one with the robots hand ?
i dont know , but it would be fun to try , he answered .
that sparkly one , over there , directed sharianna .
dad was having a hard time capturing the rock because the controls were very sensitive and every time he touched the asteroid , it would float away .
they flew all around it several times and had to chase it each time it was bumped .
finally , joseph said let me have a try , dad .
he used both hands and made a cage with the fingers around the asteroid , then slowly closed one hand until it gently gripped the coveted rock .
yeah !
cried sharianna , as everyone clapped .
now what ?
dad asked .
put it in the cargo bay , suggested sharianna .
havent you seen the space movies ?
demanded joseph .
when they open the door to space , everything goes flying out .
we would lose our air , and everything else in the cargo bay .
well , just hold onto it until we get back home , she retorted .
its worth a try , agreed mom .
since im already in the chair , can i pilot the robot to the moon ?
requested joseph .
sharianna was quick to interject hey , ive been in the chair the whole time and i havent had the chance to fly it .
dad intervened , you can both have a turn , but then i will take over when we get closer to the moon .
be careful , i want to see the moon , i dont want to make our own crater , cautioned mom .
youve both had your opportunity to pilot the ship i think ill take over the controls now , said dad , as they approached the moon .
its my turn to be copilot , insisted joseph , while motioning to sharianna to vacate her seat .
i think it is moms turn , suggested thomas , as he motioned for sophia to sit down in shariannas chair .
okay , but it doesnt really matter to me .
sophia sat down in the captains chair .
as she looked at all the controls , she suddenly felt an inward craving to pilot the robot .
she suppressed the desire maybe ill fly it on the return trip .
joseph walked around the control chairs and down the steps to the seating below .
from this vantage point , it felt like he was right out in space without any ship at all , because he was surrounded on both sides and the top by the curved view screen .
sharianna joined him .
wow , this looks even cooler than when you are in the captains chair , she observed .
kind of like the soarin over california ride at disneyland .
except its real , added joseph .
i think well go around the back side of the moon , and then gradually approach the front .
i think that will eliminate the risk of crashing straight into it , explained dad , as he glanced at mom .
okay , she agreed .
as they approached the moon , they could see the remarkably varied terrain , from mountains , hills and craters to smooth plains .
wow , its amazing , exclaimed joseph , from his seat down in front .
it is so barren , observed sharianna .
as they came around into the shadow of the moon they looked beyond , into the expanse of space , to see the most unexpected and spectacular sight they could imagine .
look at all those stars , exclaimed sharianna .
with the moon blocking the light from the sun and no atmosphere to obscure the view , they could see millions of stars , brighter than they had ever seen them before .
its beautiful , whispered mom .
dad had slowed the robot down so that they would not overshoot the moon .
as they slowly came around the moon , they saw the earth rise up majestically from the horizon .
its a small world , after all , sang out mom , in her soft , melodious voice .
it really is small , isnt it ?
they made a slow descent and began to realize the enormity of their search .
they flew low over the mountains , craters and huge plains .
that is a lot of area to search .
does anyone know where the moon missions landed ?
asked dad .
if i had my computer , i could google it .
maybe we should bring it next time , proposed dad .
i doubt you could connect to the internet way out here , countered mom .
i guess youre right , agreed joseph .
but we only have to search half of the moon because we know they did not land on the dark side , sharianna smiled smugly .
and they did not land in the polar regions .
that still leaves an area probably as big as north america , concluded dad thoughtfully .
they flew back and forth across the moon for hours search ing for the lander .
maybe the moon landings really were fake , speculated joseph .
dad tried to remember a nova show he had seen recently about the moon landings but he couldnt remember the details .
thomas and joseph were likely novas biggest fans they had probably watched nearly every show they had ever filmed .
they also consumed the national geographic movies and magazines .
hey , didnt they land on a large flat plain ?
remembered mom , who watched some of the nova programs with them .
ill bet that they chose the smoothest spot they could find .
lets go back out to space so that we can see the flattest looking place .
as they flew back out to space and looked at the moon from that vantage point , they noticed a very large level plain .
lets use a grid type of search pattern , that way we wont keep flying over the same area , suggested joseph .
good idea , son .
after a couple more hours searching the plain , sharianna said i dont know if it reflects the actual lunar landing , but i think that when we took our picture at the planetarium there were mountains or hills in the background of the display .
okay , well limit our search to a few miles from the edge of the plain , responded dad .
maybe it was fake .
sharianna added her doubt to josephs .
dont be too fast to disbelieve something just because you cant prove it , suggested dad .
but what if we cant find it ?
she persisted .
dad explained imagine , if you were on the beach and you had a diamond and you dropped it .
someone comes along and you tell them there is a diamond in the sand .
would it still be there even if they could not find it ?
yes .
what if they did not believe that it was there , does that diminish the reality of it being there ?
no .
remember , a persons inability to verify the existence of something in no way disproves the reality of its existence .
chapter nine the meteorite mom looked at shariannas alarm clock that was still on the console in front of her .
well , back home it is 9 00 .
i think ill make some break fast ive got bread , eggs , and milk .
any special requests ?
asked mom .
we could make french toast , sharianna concluded .
okay , but we dont have any syrup .
will jelly do ?
sure will , responded dad .
ill have the eggs with toast , sighed sharianna .
me too , echoed joseph .
i think well take a break .
im going to try to land on that hill over there , announced dad .
when the robot touched down a huge cloud of dust was kicked up .
houston , the eagle has landed , reported dad , in a voice that really did sound a lot like neil armstrongs declaration when apollo 11 first landed on the moon .
with this artificial gravity and counter g force , it is difficult to tell how hard we land , rationalized dad for his amateur landing .
as they went through the small corridor , mom paused , you know what is weird ?
what ?
to feel like we are walking on a flat level surface , while knowing that we are actually walking straight down , toward the surface of the moon .
how do you think it works ?
joseph was excited to explain his theory as they entered the kitchen and mom began making breakfast .
the ship has the ability to create artificial gravity began joseph .
yeah , we already know that , sharianna interrupted .
turning to mom , how can you cook eggs if there is no stove ?
sophia smiled the investigation of the kitchen had been her personal mission .
she touched a button and what looked like a cutting board slid out from under the counter .
she put her hand on the stone like material .
see , its cold .
watch , she instructed , like a professional demonstrator , as she placed the clear container that looked a little like a frying pan on the surface .
see , it is still cold .
joseph and sharianna passed their hands over the pan .
mom waved one hand over the pan and cracked an egg with the other .
abracadabra .
instantly , as the egg touched the pan , it began to sizzle and cook .
both joseph and sharianna were fascinated .
i see your investigation of the kitchen was fruitful , ob served dad .
how does it work ?
asked joseph .
i dont know , but it does , replied mom .
i want mine scrambled , asserted sharianna .
me too , concurred joseph .
mom quickly cracked in several more and stirred them , adding a dash of pepper and a little milk from one of the refrigerated drawers .
there , the best scrambled eggs i have ever made , she bragged , as she slid them onto a plate .
and completely non stick too !
the pan was clean as new .
how did you learn that ?
marveled dad .
mom held up a finger with an obvious red mark .
acci dentally .
after breakfast , thomas was drawn to the big soft comforta ble chairs .
about your theory he encouraged , as he sat down , looking at joseph .
well , if real gravity is pulling from any direction that is not appropriate for the orientation of the ship then the ship automatically applies an equal gravitational pull in the exact opposite direction , while maintaining the correct amount of gravitational pull in the right direction .
the same goes for countering g force .
excellent reasoning and deductions .
i think gravity is reduced when you sit in this chair , thats why it is so comforta ble , sighed dad , as he closed his eyes .
percy was already occupying one of the other chairs , so mom slipped into the third one .
i think youre right , she agreed , as she contentedly closed her eyes .
hey , how can you sleep at a time like this ?
scolded joseph .
yeah , were on a mission to find evidence of moon land ings !
asserted sharianna .
percy opened a lazy eye he was enjoying the anti gravity chair .
okay , lets try again , conceded dad , as he reluctantly vacated the chair of comfort .
lets fly back out to space and pick the next largest plain , suggested joseph .
if you lived on the moon you could always see the earth , couldnt you ?
observed sharianna , as she gazed at the beauty of their home planet .
i guess youre right the moon always faces the earth , answered dad , as the robot rose from the surface of the moon .
dad slowly turned the robot back toward the moon and they looked at it in silence for a few minutes .
computer ... scan for anymetal structures , directed joseph , imitating the commanding voice of captain kirk .
no , youve got it all wrong .
you have to talk to the ship , asserted sharianna in mock seriousness , as she joined in the game .
looking at the moon on the view screen and mustering her most official sounding voice she commanded robo ship , scan for any metalstructureson the sur faceofthe moon .
immediately , superimposed over the moon , there appeared on the view screen over twenty small red circles .
mom gasped incredulously , its voice controlled !
thomas was astonished and momentarily speechless .
it was inconceivable to him that the builders of the robot could possibly have known english .
regaining control of his speech , he gasped , it understands english ?
incredible !
dad waived his hand over the controls labeled with the strange writing and symbols .
obviously , its not their first language .
maybe they were studying us theorized sharianna contemplatively .
oooo , mocked joseph mysteriously .
then , in a much more serious voice , he pointed to the view screen , lets go down and see what it found .
lets go , maybe we can figure this out later , agreed dad .
do you think we will be able to see neil armstrongs or buzz aldrens foot prints where they first walked on the moon ?
wondered mom .
theoretically , they should still be there , unless the dust was disturbed by something like a meteorite hitting close by , replied dad .
why are so many metal structures indicated ?
asked sharianna .
both the united states and russia sent quite a few missions to the moon , explained dad .
except the russian missions were all unmanned , right ?
yes , i dont think they ever landed a man on the moon , answered dad .
where should we start ?
asked mom .
joseph ?
sharianna ?
what do you kids think ?
queried dad .
look , one of them is in the plain that we just searched , observed sharianna .
i think we should start with that one , joseph proposed .
they were able to find it quite easily by aligning the small red dot that was always in the center of the screen with the small red circle , and the robot flew directly to it .
as they approached the site , they could see that it was some type of rover .
hey , what kind of writing is that ?
asked joseph , when they got close enough to see the details .
its not english , so it must be russian , deduced sharianna .
did anyone else send a mission to the moon ?
it is russian , confirmed mom .
i guess they didnt fake their moon landings .
the next site they investigated turned out to be a crater with some metal pieces lying around .
i think that they crashed a few rockets into the moon , explained dad .
why ?
asked joseph .
probably to see if it could be done .
you wouldnt want to attempt a manned mission to the moon if you couldnt even hit it with a rocket , would you ?
reasoned mom .
lets move on and find the others , suggested dad .
the next site they chose was in the bottom of a gigantic , ancient crater , at least ten times the size of meteor crater in arizona .
as they hovered over the site they saw a long sloping trench cut across the bottom .
directly in line with the trench , a chunk of the craters rim was knocked out .
another crash site ?
assumed sharianna .
joseph looked at dad .
it looks like the crater where we found the robot .
sure does , except it doesnt look as big , replied dad .
drop down a little closer to the deep end of the trench , suggested joseph .
i dont see any debris , observed mom , could be a meteor crater .
but the robot indicated it as a metal structure , argued joseph , his interest mounting .
lets dig it up !
what if it is another robot ?
posed sharianna energetically .
joseph used the hands so well capturing the asteroid , i think he should dig it up , reasoned mom , as she gave her seat to joseph .
joseph set the asteroid that was still in the robots hand on a large rock at the edge of the pit and using the hands of the robot like shovels he began to remove the moon rocks and dirt in the lower end of the pit .
look , there !
exclaimed sharianna .
i see it , replied joseph , as he carefully scraped around the edges of a rough looking sphere about four feet in diameter .
maybe its an iron meteorite , theorized mom .
the robot was now on its knees as joseph reached into the hole with both hands and carefully removed the object and held it up for a closer look .
it was round and bumpy , with a lot of moon dust sticking to it .
its about the same color as the meteorites at the museum , concluded sharianna .
yeah , but it is a whole lot bigger !
exclaimed joseph .
lets take it home !
called out sharianna and joseph in unison .
okay , but how ?
it would be so easy to drop , especially when entering earths atmosphere , concluded dad .
i have an idea .
joseph explained his proposal ive rethought my concern about opening the doors to the cargo area .
why would the builders of the robot make it so that you couldnt open the cargo doors in space ?
how likely would it be that other planets would have exactly the right atmosphere ?
otherwise , you couldnt bring anything very big home .
joseph felt confident that his analysis was correct .
looking at mom , he said am i right , or what ?
it makes sense .
and the door from the control room to the cargo area really does look perfectly sealed , she responded .
it seals perfectly , like all the other doors , added joseph excitedly .
sharianna added her thoughts thats why the kitchen and living room retract and why they have so many compartments and drawers in there , so that nothing goes flying out when you open the doors .
thats why they put doors separating the cargo area from the rest of the ship !
and , the button to open the cargo bay is right here , not in the cargo bay .
sharianna was quite proud of her deductive abilities .
okay , i believe , dad capitulated .
joseph moved his beanbag from the cargo bay to the lower observation area of the control room it took up practically all the floor space of that level .
after retracting the kitchen and the living room and securing everything else in the drawers , they opened the cargo bay doors and joseph carefully placed the object inside .
dont forget my asteroid .
after a pause , sharianna de clared , i want to try putting it in .
dad gave up his seat and joseph gave sharianna some pointers as she slowly picked up her asteroid and placed it in the cargo bay .
then she picked up a moon rock about the same size and put it next to her asteroid .
you know that we wont be able to tell anyone where we got these rocks .
dont you ?
emphasized mom .
yes , they agreed reluctantly .
hey , lets take a rover home !
exclaimed joseph .
that would be a little harder to explain , cautioned mom .
i dont think wed better .
can i fly the robot now ?
asked sharianna , who was already at the controls .
i dont see why not , replied mom .
as they continued their search for apollo 11 , they found several more crash sites and a russian probe .
hey , look at that mountain it looks like an extinct volcano it even has a hole in the top , observed joseph .
did the moon ever have any volcanic activity ?
yes , but not any active ones anymore , replied dad .
it resembles the part of the copper mine that you can see from our house , observed sharianna .
yes , it does , a little , concurred mom , as they flew past the strange mountain .
but i cant imagine there are any mines on the moon .
what is that shadow beyond the mountain ?
asked sharian na .
i dont know , answered dad , in a bewildered tone .
chapter ten the black obelisk as they approached , the shadow became a tall , four sided pillar with each side tapering to a point at the top .
its a tower !
cried mom .
no !
its anobelisk ?
its huge !
exclaimed joseph .
suddenly , they saw a lander next to it , and then another , and another .
they looked extremely small next to the giant black obelisk .
that one is american , see the flag on the side , called out sharianna .
and that one has the same flag as the russian rover , observed dad .
they drew closer and they could read the writing on the side of one of the landers .
theres apollo 12 .
is that neil armstrongs lander ?
no , it was apollo 11 , answered dad .
wow , its still cool , replied joseph .
as they drew closer , the words on the side of another ameri can lander became readable .
there it is !
exclaimed sophia apollo 11 .
there is a plaque on the side of it but i cant read it , were still too far away .
sharianna landed the robot between the american landers and the giant obelisk .
it must be at least 1,000 feet tall , speculated dad , as he gazed up at the shiny , black spire , and it must be 150 feet wide at the base .
there is no way they brought that from earth , stated mom emphatically .
look , there is writing near the bottom of it , observed joseph .
get closer , sharianna , directed mom .
sharianna took a few steps closer with the robot .
i thought you wanted to see neil armstrongs footprints .
yeah , later , mom replied , as her heart pounded with excitement as she realized that they must have found an alien monument .
i guess well leave our own footprints , laughed joseph .
yeah , huge robot prints , added sharianna .
mom grabbed dads notepad and began copying the row of strange symbols they could now clearly see on the obelisk .
can you read that language ?
asked joseph .
no , i read ancient , dead languagesnot alien .
suddenly , sharianna remembered , i brought my camera .
really ?
replied mom , as she put the notepad down .
yeah , ill get it .
sharianna flipped the switch to josephs chair , you take over joseph , she said , as she ran back to the cargo bay .
returning , she handed the camera to mom , who took a picture of the hieroglyphic writing .
what is it ?
queried sharianna , motioning to the obelisk .
any ideas ?
inquired dad .
it looks like a monument , like the washington monumentits an obelisk .
the egyptians built obelisks too , stated sharianna .
maybe it has some kind of function , like a communication tower , suggested joseph .
communicating to whom ?
questioned mom .
was it put here before or after the moon landings , and who put it here ?
pondered dad .
if it was before , then maybe they could see it from earth and that is why they wanted to come here so bad .
maybe they met the aliens who built it .
joseph gazed up at the silhouette of the spire against the background of the earth , contemplating the possibilities .
some of the arguments for the fake moon landings could be explained if there was a second shiplike the strange shadows seen in the pictures , mused dad .
perhaps thats why nasa does not strenuously refute the allegations of fake moon landings .
they would rather have some people believe that they were fake than for everyone to know the real truth .
but dad , didnt you know that they already proved that the moon landings were real and that the shadows were normal ?
argued joseph .
i know , but it doesnt preclude the possibility of another ship , does it ?
i like josephs idea of a communication tower , said mom .
lets fly up and look at the top .
mom sat down in shariannas chair and flipped the switch that transferred control of the robot from the right control chair to the left , and flew the robot up very slowly .
there were no visible joints or seams in the glistening black obsidian like surface of the obelisk .
it looks as sharp as a needle , observed sharianna , when they reached the apex of the spire .
i guess it could be an antenna , acknowledged dad .
hey , lets see if there are any alien footprints , suggested joseph .
mom landed the robot in almost the same spot .
pretty good flying , praised dad , as mom bent the robot down to look at the dust around the base of the obelisk .
it is easier than you make it look , she teased , with her beautiful smile .
thanksi think , he replied , a little disconsolately .
the astronauts footprints are still here !
unless aliens were wearing spacesuits with the same tread as the astronauts , sophia exclaimed excitedly , as she looked at the footprints around the base of the monolith .
too bad we dont have spacesuits to walk in the same footprints as neil armstrong , she mused quietly .
she had always dreamed of becoming an astronaut .
joseph and sharianna looked at each other .
chapter eleven what will nasa think ?
we do have spacesuits , responded sharianna , with a huge grin .
where ?
asked dad .
we found a closet , joseph replied excitedly , as he bounded up the steps from the lower observation area , with sharianna right behind him .
they led mom and dad back through the cargo area and opened the closet , revealing the suits hanging on the rack .
how do you know they are spacesuits ?
queried dad .
we tried them out , blurted sharianna .
what do you mean you tried them out ?
demanded mom .
joseph and sharianna then proceeded to relate their adven ture of the previous day , while conveniently leaving out the encounter with the twins , and of course , their practical joke on their friends .
i dont know if water is an appropriate test for them , said dad , as another thought occurred to him .
there is oxygen in water , how do we know the suits didnt take the oxygen out of the water ?
now it was moms turn to be logical if this is a space ship then they must be spacesuits .
maybe they are bio suits , argued dad .
they must be both , concluded joseph .
there is only one kind of suit here .
mom continued her argument and why would they have a bio suit and not a spacesuit ?
i agree with joseph .
they must be dual function , she insisted , with a tone of finality .
i concur , agreed sharianna .
id bet that little room in the ankle of the robot , by the bathroom , is an airlock , proposed joseph .
dad began putting on one of the suits .
so , what do you think you are doing ?
questioned mom .
im going to test josephs theory about the airlock , and your theory about the spacesuits .
mom grabbed one of the suits and also began putting it on .
so , what do you think you are doing ?
mimicked dad .
im going with you .
and what if you are wrong and i explode into space ?
then well explode together , she said with a smile .
and joseph and sharianna can take the robot home by themselves ?
he replied .
sophia relented , ill wait , i guess but im sure it will be okay .
dad stepped into the ankle of the robot and closed the door behind him .
as he pushed the button to open the outer door there was a momentary delay .
his heart started to pound as he began to second guess his decision .
he heard a sound like the rushing of wind , and then , complete silence .
slowly , he felt as if the floor were tilting he leaned and shuffled his feet in the opposite direction , until finally , he was standing straight up on the bathroom door .
he took a deep breath and looked directly overhead at the three faces scrunched up against the window of the other door , which was now directly overheadfrom his perspective .
all of a sudden , the outer door opened up and he stood looking directly at the great obelisk with the landscape of the moon in the distance .
thats weird .
dad is standing on the bathroom door , observed sharianna .
of course , joseph replied .
the gravity in the airlock had to rotate in order to match the gravitational pull of the moon .
otherwise , when dad stepped out , he would either have to twist like a cat in mid air , or he would probably fall on his head .
there is no air on the moon , retorted sharianna smartly .
you know what i mean .
thomas gave his family the thumbs up and stepped out onto the top of the robots foot .
the door closed behind him without making a noise .
he walked out to the end of the foot in utter silence even his feet didnt make any sound as he walked .
the low gravity wasnt the only reason he felt light footed , he was filled with the euphoria of doing something incredible that he never dreamed he would ever do .
i guess sound doesnt travel when there is no atmosphere , he thought to himself , as he stood at the end of the foot , ready to slide down to the surface .
hey , mom , i guess dad will be the first one to walk on the moon .
thomas heard josephs voice as if he were right next to him .
he turned and looked at the door , but could see nothing except the uninterrupted surface of the robot .
he walked back toward the leg and looked for the outline of the door but could see only the flawless surface .
can you guys hear me ?
he asked .
sure can , dad , replied sharianna .
didnt we tell you , the suits have radios , or something , explained joseph .
suddenly the door opened and out bounded percy , who , with one great leap covered the distance and landed in thomas arms .
percy looked as surprised as dad .
i guess he doesnt know he can jump three times as far here on the moon , laughed joseph .
where did you find the dog suit ?
questioned dad .
joseph said that if the same size suit could fit both dad and me , then maybe it could even shrink down to fit percy , explained sharianna .
ill bet it will take him a while to get used to the moons gravity , chuckled dad .
hell just think hes a super dog , said sharianna .
he is a super dog , joseph retorted .
percy jumped down and ran , or rather lumbered , since each step he took pushed him off the surface a little too much , toward the end of the robots foot .
he looked back and with a bark slid down to the moons surface .
one small step for a dog , one giant leap for dad rolled his eyes as he searched for the right word .
mom finished the new quote canine .
percy bounded all over like a new puppy , exhilarating in his newfound power of flight .
they paused on the end of the foot and looked up at the earth .
sharianna raised her camera and took a picture of it .
suddenly , she had a great thought .
hey , smile everyone , she said , as she knelt down on the robots foot to get a picture of mom and dad and joseph with the earth and the obelisk in the background .
she tucked her camera back into her fanny pack that she had strapped around her waist on the outside of her suit .
after you , my dear , offered dad , as he motioned to mom with an exaggerated swing of his arm and a bow .
the first woman to walk on the moon !
mom slid down to join percy , followed by sharianna and joseph simultaneously .
immediately upon touching the surface , joseph took a giant leap and cleared over twelve feet of distance .
yahoooo .
sharianna joined in the fun as she bounded after mom .
thomas looked around at the incredible moonscape , and then focused on the obelisk , thinking about all the mysteries they had encountered and the fantastic experiences of the past few days .
suddenly , the ancient pictographs and inscriptions on the rock outcropping in the desert flashed across the eye of his mind in perfect clarity .
he felt the same strange feeling of familiarity that he and joseph had felt when they first discovered them .
the picture faded as fast as it had come , leaving him feeling slightly confused .
ill have to go back there when we get home , he thought to himself as he slid down to the surface to join his family .
sophia had already made a beeline for the base of the obelisk with slow , giant steps , each step propelling her off the surface , followed by a slow descent .
as they became used to the low gravity they were able to walk without breaking the surface .
sophia had already circumvented the base of the obelisk by the time thomas reached it .
as sophia came around the corner she said it definitely wasnt put here after the moon landings .
how do you know that ?
asked sharianna .
mom saw joseph and percy heading in the direction of the moon landers .
dont go too far !
mom called after joseph .
you dont have to yell , mom , i can hear you no matter how far away i get .
remember the suits ?
he said , pointing to his invisible helmet .
yeah , how do you know that ?
asked dad , bringing her back to her investigative deductions .
the footprints .
dad motioned for her to continue her explanation .
the footprints go all around it in an unbroken pattern .
if it were placed here afterwards , then the prints would either be disturbed or at least overlapped .
you can tell that the astronauts were examining it , like we are .
what will nasa think when they come back and see our footprints ?
asked sharianna as she lifted her foot and looked at the imprint it left in the dust .
that will be perplexing , laughed mom .
im surprised that the spacesuits conform even to the bottom of our shoes , marveled dad .
mom held up her hand .
it even fits my hands perfectly , and yet it doesnt feel tight .
she pulled on one of her fingers and the suit stretched , but when she let it go , it returned immediately to its perfect fit .
mom resumed her investigation of the obelisk , while dad went to keep an eye on percy and joseph .
sharianna picked up a moon rock about the size of a softball and followed her mom .
sophia tapped on the obelisk with her hand it felt solid .
sharianna banged on it with the rock .
she was surprised that it made no noise .
why didnt it make any noise ?
she asked .
because there is no atmosphere , came the unexpected reply from joseph , who was out of sight behind the robot .
i asked mom , retorted sharianna .
noise has to have something to travel through , like air or water , or some other material , explained mom .
the flag they planted is pretty faded , and it is lying on the ground , but its still there .
i think it was knocked over by the blast when the lunar module took off from the surface .
joseph looked around , where is the moon rover ?
there it is !
exclaimed dad , over there , behind that lander .
cool !
cried joseph , as he went bounding across the moon scape to investigate .
the batteries must be dead , observed dad , as joseph sat in the rover and tried the controls , without success .
it would have been so fun to go speeding across the moon scape , bemoaned joseph .
i dont think the rover was built for speed anyway , con soled dad .
i wish we had a dune buggy , or even the old truck , joseph said longingly .
except that without oxygen , neither would run , would they ?
look .
sharianna pointed to the large raised symbols on the surface of the obelisk .
the symbols seemed to use a geometric basis for their structure .
squares , parallelograms , triangles , ovals , circles , trapezoids and rectangles were used alone or in overlapping combinations .
sharianna pointed to a round circle with a long slender obelisk extending from the top .
do you think that one represents the moon ?
and that one , with the single large continent and the obelisk on the top , maybe it depicts their home world .
maybe , replied mom .
why dont you take another picture of it and we can study it later ?
sharianna snapped the picture .
she gazed at the symbols on the obelisk she felt strangely drawn to it .
a mysterious urge to touch it began to consume her .
her hands seemed to move independently of her thoughts .
she seemed to have a heightened awareness of the details on the symbols and yet she felt an inability to control her fingers as they ran slowly over the symbols from right to left .
what in the world am i doing ?
she thought to herself , as her mind raced , while her hands seemed to move in slow motion .
as she reached the last symbol , her fingers traced the square spiral .
suddenly , as her fingers reached the center , all the symbols began to recede into the obelisk and disappear , as if they were melting away .
thomas !
called sophia .
you dont have to yell began joseph .
come quick !
interrupted mom , over here , by the obe lisk !
whats the matter ?
questioned thomas , as he and joseph came bounding across the moonscape in huge leaps that covered nearly fifteen feet , but still seemed slow since it took so long to return to the ground .
the faster percy tried to run , the more difficulty he hadhis timing was off .
i dont know , replied mom .
just come .
whats going on ?
demanded dad , once again , when they arrived at the obelisk .
mom pointed to where the symbols had been , as she related what happened .
sharianna was still standing , staring blankly at the obelisk .
dad put his hand on her shoulder .
sharianna ?
she did not respond .
sharianna !
sharianna turned very slowly and collapsed into his arms .
chapter twelve trapped sharianna immediately began to regain normal control of her body .
im alright , i think , she said .
whats going on ?
we hoped you could tell us , answered mom .
i took a picture of the symbols , sharianna replied , after thatim not really sure what happened , she said contempla tively , as she opened and closed her hand .
well , something happened , said joseph , as he ran his hand over the smooth obelisk .
there is no trace that the symbols were ever here .
lets get back to the robot , said mom .
joseph picked up a couple of small moon rocks .
i think ill take these home .
hey , i heard somewhere that the moon rocks they brought back from the moon are the most valuable rocks on earth .
and how will you prove those are from the moon ?
laughed sharianna , as she regained her composure .
chemical analysis , replied joseph .
they will put you in jail because they will assume that you stole them from nasa , reasoned mom .
as they approached the robot , dad suddenly felt a vise like grip on his arm .
dad , joseph said in a strained whisper , look at the obelisk .
thomas could barely make out his words .
he turned , and looked toward the obelisk .
a tall , narrow , triangular crack had begun to appear .
a dull , purple light emanated from the interior .
mom and sharianna followed his gaze .
stay here , ordered dad , as he stepped toward the obelisk .
no way , countered mom .
we all stay together .
they began to walk slowly toward the obelisk .
percy bounded ahead and approached the narrow triangular doorway .
percy , come back here !
commanded joseph .
but he had already disappeared into the light .
they quickened their pace and burst through the doorway .
percy was nowhere to be seen .
the room seemed to span the entire interior of the obelisk .
the floor and walls were smooth and seemed to glow , emanating the strange purple light .
they could see all the way to the top of the spire .
at the exact center of the obelisk was some sort of glass like tube , about two feet in diameter that extended from the floor all the way to the top of the spire .
percy !
they all called out , almost simultaneously .
suddenly , percys head appeared from behind the pillar , followed by his body and his furiously wagging tail .
he barked at them , turned , and again disappeared .
they ran toward the glistening pillar at the center of the floor , where they had last seen percy , with joseph in the lead .
wait , be careful , admonished mom .
as he approached , joseph realized that percy had not disap peared he had simply gone down a spiral staircase that began behind the pillar .
stop !
commanded mom , as joseph proceeded to follow percy down .
we dont know what is down there !
i agree , i think we should continue with caution , concurred dad .
come back here , percy , called sharianna .
percy came back into view as he happily bounded up the staircase .
sharianna grabbed onto the stretchy part of his spacesuit , at the back of his neck .
you stay with us , she commanded .
they continued down as the staircase wound its way around the crystal clear pillar , which appeared to be full of some kind of liquid , all the while descending deeper beneath the surface of the moon .
even the stairs were made of the same material as the floor and walls of the interior and emanated the same strange purple light .
thomas thought it odd that each step was so tall about twice as high as a normal step .
it looks like it is filled with water , observed sharianna , as she ran her hand over the clear tube .
they continued their descent .
how far do you think we have come ?
asked mom .
dad replied , i would guess we have been descending for at least twenty minutes .
if we are walking a normal speed of three miles an hour , that would mean we have probably gone close to a mile .
you think we are a mile from the surface ?
asked sharian na .
no , maybe about a half mile , since the staircase spirals down , he replied .
look , the bottom of the stair , observed joseph .
the small , spiral tunnel gave way to a huge subterranean chamber .
it appeared to be a natural cavern .
the staircase ended on a round platform , about twenty feet across that encircled the glass like pillar .
an arching walkway with a single handrail at about shoulder height led away from the platform and disappeared in the distance .
joseph walked to the edge of the platform and looked over .
look , its a pool of water .
the light emanating from the platform reflected off the perfectly still water .
as joseph peered into the water , he thought he noticed a set of faint concentric rings progressing from the darkness toward the platform , as if it were the last remnants of ripples from some disturbance on the surface of the water .
i think it is more like an underground lake you cant even see the end of it , said sharianna , as she strained her eyes to see beyond the light , into the darkness .
joseph stepped back from the edge .
i wonder how far it goes .
joseph drew back his arm and with much more strength that he would normally have on earth , flung one of the small moon rocks he had been carrying , far out into the darkness .
they all stood silent , involuntarily waiting for the familiar sound as the stone contacted the water , and yet realizing that without an atmosphere , the only sound they could hear was each other through the communication capability of their suits .
it was a total surprise when they heard the unmistakable plop as the stone splashed into the still lake .
sophia exclaimed with excitement , hey !
there must be some kind of atmosphere down here !
shush , whispered dad , as he put his finger to his lips .
listen .
hereherehere , came back the echo of moms last word .
wow , this place must be huge !
shouted joseph .
hugehugehuge , the ghostly voice replied .
it sounds a little eerie , commented sharianna quietly .
the glowing walkway made a corridor of dim light through the darkness as it led away from the platform .
what should we do ?
asked mom , who was torn by her anxiety of being so far from the robot and her intense curiosity concerning their new discovery .
this walkway must lead somewhere interesting , stated thomas , as he proceeded down the path , followed by sharianna , percy , and sophia , with joseph taking up the rear .
although caution forbade thomas to continue , he felt strangely compelled to move forward .
soon , thomas could see by the light emanating from the walkway , a natural looking wall of rock , with a tunnel , part way up the rock face , into which the walkway led .
joseph got tired of holding onto his other rock .
hey , watch this .
joseph wound up his arm like a big league baseball pitcher and let the other moon rock fly in another direction .
as the rock disappeared into the darkness , they heard a horrifying , unearthly wail as it impacted something other than the surface of the water .
it sounded to joseph like a cross between the terrified squeal of a pig and the metallic roar of godzilla .
it was a nerve shattering scream .
the deafeningly intense shriek reverberated through the cavern .
the placid lake seemed to suddenly transform into a raging sea .
the source of the tumult emerged from the darkness a few yards away and slammed into the narrow bridge between the little group of explorers and the platform .
sharianna screamed as she clung to the thrashing railing .
mom and dad clutched the rail and scrambled to maintain their footing on the careening walkway .
percy and joseph were both catapulted into the churning water .
the creature climbed onto the walkway it looked like an enormous glob of slimy brown luminescent jelly , pulsating as it expanded and contracted .
the walkway was pushed down into the water by the weight of the enormous monster .
it sounds more dangerous than it looks , thought thomas .
at that instant , the gelatinous exterior of the creature seemed to peel away and was drawn , or sucked , into an orifice at the top of the body , revealing a hideous looking life form .
it had one large foot , soft and muscular , similar to the foot of a snail .
but that was the end of its similarities to the familiar mollusk of earth .
it had a central large body segment with five arm like appendages .
the arms reminded thomas of the trunk of an elephant , except that each arm terminated in a fearsome mouth with vicious looking metallic like teeth .
above the mouth , near the end of each arm , was a single orb that emanated light .
thomas assumed these orbs were some sort of eyes .
in place of the orb on the upper appendage , thomas could see the very rock that joseph had thrown into the lake a sticky , bioluminescent liquid drained from behind the rock .
the surface of the monster looked as hard as a rock and was bumpy .
a huge mouth with formidable metallic looking teeth opened up in the center of the body .
the horrifying , bone chilling scream again emanated from all six mouths , creating a terrifying cacophony .
all four appendages turned and looked at the injured one .
one of the appendages curled around and plucked the rock from the eye socket and placed it in the main mouth .
thomas could hear the rock being crushed by the powerful teeth .
thomas wrenched his astonished eyes from the frightening scene and turned to see sophia grab joseph from the water and , with a single motion , lift him onto the walkway , which was no longer careening from side to side .
dad dropped to his belly on the walkway and , reaching far over the edge , grabbed percy by his spacesuit at the scruff of his neck .
pulling percy from the water , he stood up .
run !
he screamed .
all four remaining eyes jerked to attention as the creature perceived their attempt to escape .
again , the blood freezing scream filled the cavern as the creature crawled with astonishing speed toward the fleeing family .
dad tucked percy under one arm , like a giant football , as he ran behind his family .
faster !
he yelled , as he looked over his shoulder at the monster right behind him .
the last stretch of the walkway sloped up into the entrance of the tunnel , which was situated about twenty feet above the surface of the lake .
he could hear the clamping of the metallic teeth only inches from his head as they flew the last few yards up into the tunnel .
the creature attempted to follow them into the tunnel , but it was too large .
it began tearing at the sides of the tunnel in an effort to enlarge it .
the teeth at the end of each appendage sank into the moon rock as if it were cream cheese .
each arm seemed to work independently , except the arm with the missing eye it wandered aimlessly but the other four were quickly enlarging the tunnel .
the family backed away from the creature , into the darkness of the tunnel .
sophia peered into the pitch blackness and thought it strange that they were reluctant to leave the light that was emanating from the walkway , even though the monster was making surprising progress in its effort to reach them .
whenever the injured appendage bumped into the rock the beast emitted another gut twisting scream .
sharianna clamped her hands over her ears but it was to no avail , since the helmet was hard and prevented her from plugging her ears .
percy barked and growled at the creature , but sharianna noticed that it seemed to agitate it more , so she knelt down and pulled percy to her .
shh , she whispered , as she rubbed his head .
weve got to be quiet .
joseph noticed that once in a while the creature would deposit some rock in the large , central mouth .
it is eating the rock !
he exclaimed .
the creature slowed down its excavation as it began to deposit more and more rock into its large mouth .
finally , it ceased tearing at the walls .
it stood still as it peered into the darkness of the tunnel with all four of its remaining eyes .
the light from its eyes lit up the tunnel for a short distance .
the family quietly backed away deeper into the darkness .
suddenly , the limbs wrapped themselves around the body , and the slime began spewing from the orifice at the top , until it was again a giant pulsating blob .
slowly , it turned and retreated to the lake , where it plopped into the water and disappeared .
dad crept slowly toward the dull light at the entrance to the tunnel .
he could see a trail of slime that was left by the monsters single snail like foot .
he looked in the distance , toward the platform and the staircase that led back to the robot .
about half of the walkway was under water .
were trapped , whispered sharianna from behind him .
chapter thirteen the labyrinth maybe we could swim back to the platform , joseph proposed , halfheartedly .
not with that monster in the lake , countered mom .
be sides , ill bet its not the only one in there .
dad responded well , i dont want to go groping down the tunnel in the dark , not knowing where it leads or what might be down there .
sharianna moved a little closer to the light with his last words .
look , the walkway is all broken up , observed joseph .
thats stating the obvious , retorted sharianna .
thats why we cant get back .
no , look , the railing is broken up too it is made of the same material .
dad perceived the direction of josephs thoughts yes , if we could get some sections of it , maybe we could use it like flashlights .
how are you going to get the pieces , asked mom .
that creature can move through the water even faster than it can runor crawl , on land .
ill bet its not normally so dangerous , said joseph .
are you crazy ?
asked sharianna .
didnt you see those pincher like mouths on its arms ?
im just saying that if i hadnt put its eye out with the rock , maybe it wouldnt have attacked .
the last thirty feet or so of the railing had been knocked into the lake by the advance of the creature .
i see a loose piece of railing , down where the walkway goes under water .
do you see it joseph ?
asked dad .
yes , but look at that last section , the one that is closest to us one end is loose , joseph replied .
i wish i knew how tough that material is .
do you think it might break if we pried on it ?
maybe , but im not going to chance it .
im going for the one that is already loose .
i dont want to waste time if i cant break the other one , said dad .
get ready to retreat into the cave im going out to get it .
thomas took a couple of deep breaths and braced his foot against a rock , like a sprinter at the starting line .
im a faster runner than you , dad , said joseph .
ill go , replied dad .
you stay with the girls .
thomas burst out of the mouth of the cave and sprinted down the walkway toward the loose piece of railing .
joseph dashed right behind dad and grabbed onto the loose end of the closest piece of railing .
he began to bend it but it would not break .
suddenly , sharianna was by his side , and the rail bent a little more .
right behind sharianna was mom , who threw herself against the railing .
without warning , it suddenly snapped .
sharianna and joseph went flying into the water , still holding onto the rail .
the rail slid through moms hands but she clamped onto the end of it .
hold on !
sophia screamed .
she suddenly felt like mrs. hercules as she hoisted both her children from the water .
joseph and sharianna falling into the water was not the only disturbance upon the surface of the lake .
as thomas reached for the loose piece of railing , he felt the walkway jolt beneath his feet .
he lunged onto his knees and caught the piece of railing as it rolled into the water .
he felt the walkway sink a little more into the lake .
he turned around in time to see his children dangling from the end of the railing as sophia lifted them out of the water , but he could not see sophia .
on the walkway between thomas and sophia stood a creature like the one they had escaped from , except that this one was much smaller , but it looked no less formidable .
sophia deposited joseph and sharianna onto the walkway behind her and turned toward thomas .
all she could see was the back of the creature .
the lake seemed to be a cauldron of activity the water was in turmoil and she could imagine , who knows how many other monsters , speeding toward them .
get back to the cave !
she ordered .
percy raced past her toward the creature .
she leaped into action .
holding her glowing twelve foot pole she rushed down the walkway toward the monster .
percy barked at the creature and attempted to bite the back of its soft muscular foot .
but , of course , the helmet of his space suit prevented him from inflicting any injury on the creature .
three of the arms arched toward the back , while the other two proceeded to attack thomas .
the eyes !
screamed sophia , as she swung her pole toward the end of one of the arms that was reaching for percy .
get back percy !
rather than connecting with the eye , the monster caught the end of the pole in its pincher like teeth .
sophia held onto the pole with all the strength she had .
she was flung against the railing .
sophia gasped as she tried to get her wind back .
she was surprised to see a hailstorm of rocks suddenly pelt the monster .
it screamed as one of its protruding eyes was struck a glancing blow by one of the rocks that joseph and sharianna were hurling .
the creature bit through her metal pole , shortening it by a foot .
she swung the pole at the creature again and another arm quickly grabbed the pole and pinched off another foot .
dont hit mom or percy !
cautioned sharianna , as joseph threw a rock the size and shape of a football with all the strength he had .
the rock spiraled , like a quarterbacks perfect pass as it hit the monster with a loud thud exactly in the middle of the body , about two thirds the distance from the foot .
the creature seemed momentarily stunned .
dads pole was only about four feet long , so he had more control over it .
he swung with all his might and hit the creature square on one of the eyes .
as the bioluminescent fluid spurted from the orb , its unearthly shriek reverberated through the cavern , more intensely than ever .
to sophias surprised relief , the wounded fiend plunged into the water .
the ramp sprang back up a little as thomas sprinted toward his family .
quick !
get into the cave !
he yelled .
miraculous ly , he saw one of the short pieces of railing that the monster had cut from sophias pole on the walkway .
without even pausing , he scooped it up and ran after his family .
thomas felt the walkway move under his feet but somehow he was able to maintain his footing .
sophia ran headlong into the cave entrance directly behind joseph and sharianna .
percy had become much more accustomed to the moons low gravity , but he still had not completely mastered running .
he was a short distance in front of thomas as the end of the walkway began to pull away from the entrance of the cave .
here boy !
called out joseph , as percy launched himself from the end of the walkway .
sharianna yelled , faster , dad !
her heart stopped when she saw how far the walkway was from the cliff .
at the edge of the light , she could see the wake created by what she assumed were several more of the hideous creatures coming from different directions under the water .
get back farther into the cave !
ordered dad , as he leaped from the end of the walkway .
sharianna stepped back as her dad flew an amazing distance through the air .
the two pieces of railing clanged to the floor as he rolled to a stop on top of the rubble pile left by the previous monster .
joseph picked up the four foot pole , while sharianna grabbed the short one .
mom still had her ten foot pole .
the light filtering into the entrance of the cave faded as the walkway was pulled down into the depths of the lake by the furious creatures .
they could see the very dim glow of the platform in the distance .
the only other light they had was the faint glow from their pieces of railing , but it was enough to see several yards around them .
from the light of her piece of railing , sharianna suddenly saw a glowing orb , accompanied by the now familiar metallic teeth , appear near the floor of the entrance .
joseph saw the eye at the same time and swung his pole with all his might .
the eye popped and glowing liquid splattered against the wall of the cave .
the mouth screamed as it jerked back from the entrance of the cave .
a moment later they heard a splash as the creature hit the surface of the water .
joseph held his pole over the edge to see another creature emerge from the lake and begin climbing up the cliff .
the teeth at the end of its arms simply bit into the rock as it climbed up toward the cave .
this creature looked small enough to enter the cave .
dad , the boulder , directed joseph , as he jumped over to a large rock that had been dislodged by the first creature .
thomas and joseph grabbed onto the rock , but it was so big that even with the added strength afforded them by the moons low gravity and their spacesuits , they could not lift it .
roll it , directed sophia as she joined them and pushed with all her strength .
sharianna swiftly joined the effort .
together , they quickly rolled the huge boulder to the edge .
as it toppled over , they heard a crunching thud and then a splash .
they could discern no more activity coming from the lake .
i think we should get moving as far as possible from the lake i suspect that perhaps those creatures prefer the water if so , maybe they will stay near the lake .
surely , there must be another way to the surface , said dad , as he turned toward the darkness of the tunnel .
here , thomas , take my pole its producing the most light .
ill take up the rear , but i would like to have a weapon , mom said , as she looked back anxiously in the direction of the lake , which was now quiet again .
ill take the rear , joseph replied .
i know what to do if one of those creatures follows us .
joseph held his pole as if it were a two handed sword .
he swung and jabbed at an imaginary monster .
okay , but keep your eyes and ears peeled , and keep percy by your side , instructed mom .
sharianna , you follow dad .
ill be right behind you .
here , boy , heel , joseph instructed .
percy came and stood by josephs leg .
the tunnel led upward at a slight angle it seemed to wind aimlessly , turning first this way and then that .
the tunnel was perfectly round , even the floor was curved .
it was like walking through a large stone pipe .
the walls were smooth , except where there were voids or cracks in the natural rock .
even though the tunnel was probably seven or eight feet in diameter , the curved floor made walking side by side impossible .
the family trudged along in single file .
every few paces joseph would spin around and shine his pole behind them to make sure they were not being followed .
this cave definitely is not natural , commented mom .
dad stopped without warning and sharianna bumped right into him .
what do you think that is ?
asked dad , as he pointed to a round hole in the wall of the tunnel , a little more than two feet in diameter .
it looks like this tunnel that we are in , except that it is smaller , observed sharianna .
sophia knelt down cautiously and peered into the hole .
sharianna , let me see your light , please .
she reached the light into the small tunnel .
it slopes down , she reported .
do you think these tunnels were dug by the creatures in the lake ?
asked sharianna .
i doubt it , replied joseph .
did it look to you like that creature was too particular about the way he was tearing rock from the walls of the tunnel ?
i agree , said dad .
i dont think they would be capable of such precise work .
joseph continued , i think this tunnel was probably made by the same aliens that built the obelisk .
i dont think those creatures in the lake would have built stairs , with their single snail like footstairs are for bipedal creatures .
lets keep moving , admonished mom , at this rate we will never find a way out .
they continued on their way at a rapid pace .
they passed several more of the small tunnels , all intersecting the main tunnel at different angles .
what did they do with all the rock they took out of the tunnel ?
asked sharianna .
maybe they vaporized it , replied joseph .
i dont think so , the way this tunnel wanders , i would think they were following some kind of mineral deposit .
remember that strange mountain we saw , before we found the obelisk ?
asked mom , ill bet that was the tailings dump from this mine !
that makes sense , answered dad , ill bet youre right .
that must mean that this tunnel does lead to the surface , exclaimed sharianna exuberantly .
moments later , the tunnel widened into a cavern large enough to fit a house .
exiting the large room were several other tunnels .
which way ?
inquired mom , with a little anxiety in her voice .
she remembered hearing stories of spelunkers loosing their way in the abandoned mines out in the desert and perishing before they could find their way out .
the rumbling in her stomach added emphasis to her worry .
lets see if any of them slope up , suggested sharianna .
great idea , exclaimed dad , as he ran toward one of the openings , you guys check those , ill check this one .
there were seven other tunnels that intersected the cavern , four sloped downward , one seemed to be level , and two sloped upward .
which one should we take ?
asked joseph after the analy sis .
this one , well mark as number one , said dad , as he jabbed at the rock next to the tunnel they had come through with his piece of railing , then well number each one in a clockwise direction .
that way we wont be going down the same tunnel twice if we happen to choose the wrong one and have to backtrack .
that still leaves the question of which one should we take ?
insisted joseph .
that one slopes up the most , said sharianna , pointing to number four .
i think that one is larger than the others , said mom , point ing to number six .
let me have your pole , thomas .
she placed one end of the pole against the side of one of the tunnel entrances and marked the other side of the tunnel with her finger on the pole .
running over to tunnel number six she did the same thing .
see , it is several feet bigger i think we should take this one .
but that one doesnt slope up , argued sharianna .
its the only one that is level , stated joseph .
its just a hunch , but i think the tunnels may get larger the closer to the mine entrance we get , mom replied .
that makes sense to me , agreed dad .
they hurried down the large tunnel it seemed to wander a little less than the previous tunnel .
theres a light up ahead , announced dad .
it looks like a door , he declared , as they approached .
the door was closed about five feet up it looked like there was some kind of latch .
open it , directed mom .
dad reached for the latch .
i hear something whispered joseph , who was looking the other way and peering into the darkness .
what is it ?
asked mom quietly .
percy began a soft , low growl , as he faced the darkness from whence they had come .
shh , joseph whispered to percy , it sounded like a soft clicking , like the creatures teeth .
sharianna grabbed onto her little piece of railing with both hands , but she still felt defenseless .
open the door !
mom repeated in an urgent whisper .
its locked , or something , answered dad .
out in the darkness , from around a bend in the tunnel , joseph suddenly saw five small lights they seemed to be slowly dancing in the air .
a creature is coming !
joseph whispered fervently .
it must be able to track us .
dad pulled on the handle with all his strength , but it broke off .
dad turned in time to see all five eyes suddenly stop their slow dance .
the creature began its charge with a chilling wail .
thomas put his foot against the side of the cave .
pushing off , he leaped to the other side and ran along the sloped surface until he was all the way around his family .
sophia looked around anxiously for some kind of weapon , but there was nothing to be found .
instead , she spotted one of the small tunnels right next to the door .
it looked like it sloped steeply away .
percy charged to meet the creature .
percy !
get back here !
now !
screamed sharianna , as she threw her short piece of railing with every particle of strength she had toward the shrieking instrument of death charging toward them .
joseph heard shariannas weapon whiz by his head .
he gripped his weapon tighter , and thought about his plan of attack .
he wasnt going to hit only one of the eyes .
he visualized himself hitting one and then another , and another , in rapid succession .
he knew the monster would be formidably dangerous , even blind , but then at least they would have a chance .
i wish i had a gun , he thought .
the creatures eyes fixed upon percy , its arms lowered , ready to scoop him up .
shariannas projectile suddenly hit the creature , a few inches above its screaming maw .
the sharp end of the broken railing pierced the tough looking hide of the creature , as if a professional knife thrower had thrown it .
the creature paused as its eyes turned from percy to this new distraction .
it plucked the projectile from its body and crushed it in two .
mom grabbed sharianna and shoved her toward the small tunnel .
get down that hole !
she ordered .
as thomas descended back to the floor , between joseph and the creature from the lake , he saw percy try to sink his teeth into the soft foot of the monster , but once again , his helmet prevented him from inflicting any injury .
percy immediately darted back toward the family he was trying to protect , narrowly escaping the lashing teeth as the monster reached out in retaliation .
the monster let out a scream even more terrifying and nerve tearing than before .
thomas stood frozen for a moment as he held his pole toward the monster like a spear as it resumed its approach .
percy turned and stood in front of thomas , growling and barking at the creature .
his ferocious bark sounded strangely mild and pitifully ineffectual , compared to the scream of the approaching menace .
the creature seemed to be coming with a little more caution toward them , but it was still attacking nevertheless .
mom grabbed joseph from behind and flung him toward the hole .
follow sharianna !
she ordered , as she grabbed his pole from him .
i mean it !
she screamed .
joseph obeyed the order , realizing that there was no arguing with her .
thomas heard her directions to the children and turned his head slightly , to see what was going on behind him .
you get down there too !
he yelled , as loud and command ing as he could .
he knew sophia would stay and fight , but he had a plan .
he backed away toward the door .
get down there , now !
he ordered .
sophia dropped her pole and reached around thomas legs .
she grabbed percy with one hand by the tail and pulled him toward her .
she put her other hand on the scruff of his neck and shoved him down the hole after joseph .
you better not die !
she yelled at thomas , as she dove into the hole headfirst .
the monster increased its speed when it saw them escaping .
in a single motion , thomas put his long pole against the bottom of the door , placed the other end of the pole directly into the creatures main mouth and ducked .
he grabbed the short pole that sophia had discarded and dove headlong down the hole .
it all happened so fast that he was right behind sophia , sliding down with his hand pushing against sophias feet .
they all accelerated for a while , until the slope of the tunnel began to diminish and their forward momentum decreased suddenly , they came to an abrupt stop .
the tunnel was so small that thomas could not even bring his arms back alongside his body .
he lay there with his arms outstretched , still holding the end of the railing with one hand and his other holding onto sophias foot .
its a good thing the walls of this tunnel are smooth , he thought , or we would be just a bloody mess .
but then he remembered the spacesuits he rolled his arms over so that he could see his elbows from the light of the pole , where they had rubbed against the stone .
he could see no damage .
pretty tough material , he thought with relief .
are you guys okay ?
called out mom and dad together .
yes , i think so , but there is something blocking the tunnel , replied sharianna , i cant see what it is .
percy whined and crawled forward onto josephs legs .
they could hear the maddened scream of the creature reverberating down the tunnel .
thomas could feel rocks and debris piling up on his feet and legs .
his heart was pounding wildly the adrenaline was coursing through his veins .
he could envision the enraged creature tearing at the walls of the tunnel in an effort to reach them .
he had a disturbing thought maybe its intent is to bury us alive .
here , i have one of the poles , offered dad , as he struggled to move the four foot pole out from under his body and push it up past sophia , but he could barely move his forearms and hands , which were outstretched in front of him .
finally , he was able to work the pole loose and push it up far enough for sophia to get hold of it and push it up to joseph , and finally to sharianna .
the screaming of the creature had stopped , and the debris was no longer piling up on top of thomas , but he realized that there was no way they were going to be able to climb back up the tunnel .
it was deathly quiet like a tomb , thomas thought .
id better stop thinking like that , he quickly told himself .
its some kind of silvery metal thing , it fills the whole tunnel like a plug , sharianna reported .
from her voice , it was obvious that she was feeling panicked and claustrophobic .
it will be alright , sweetie , said dad , as calmly as he could , can you push it ?
i dont know i think it moved a little when we hit it .
she pushed against it but it did not move .
put your feet on my shoulders and use your legs , instructed joseph .
sharianna put her head and hands against the obstruction and pushed with her legs .
chapter fourteen its a mine the obstruction began to move .
they crept along at a painstakingly slow rate .
it took everything sharianna could muster in order to move the object a few short inches .
it was torturous for thomas to be stuck in the rear , unable to help his little girl at all .
finally , the tunnel began to slope downward more , and the blockage moved a little easier until finally , with a last shove , it began to slide on its own .
the family again began to slide and pick up momentum , until they found themselves deposited in a heap in another large tunnel .
joseph quickly picked up the only remaining piece of railing and held it up to light the tunnel , to make sure they were alone .
they examined what had been blocking the tunnel .
it looks like some kind of robotic digging machine , sug gested joseph .
the object was cylindrical , tapering somewhat at the rear , and had overlapping metal plates of only an inch or two wide circumventing the body it was the same diameter as the tunnel and was about three feet long .
the front was the most interesting part it had a drilling , or grinding mechanism that reminded thomas of the triple interlocking carbide toothed wheels that are on the end of large rock drills .
sharianna lifted up on one of the scales and the rest of them moved in a corresponding , undulating motion .
it startled her .
the scales are all connected , observed joseph , ill bet that is how it moves , similar to the scales on a snake , or an earth wormit pushes against the ground in a progressive motion that moves it forward .
which way should we go ?
asked joseph as he shone the light up and down the tunnel .
left , said mom , that is the direction we were going when we ran into the door .
a short distance down the tunnel , they discerned another light .
it looks like another door , observed dad .
except this one is open , said mom , with relief .
its not open , contradicted joseph , as they approached , it has been shredded .
they could see the teeth marks around the edges of the door , where it had been torn apart .
mom looked around nervously , obviously , the lake crea tures have been in this tunnel .
lets keep moving , admonished dad .
as they went through the doorway , sharianna noticed a small piece of metal on the floor she picked it up and put it in her fanny pack .
once beyond the door , the tunnel changed it was now about double the width of the previous tunnel and it had a flat floor .
they proceeded down the tunnel .
other intersecting tunnels joined it , but each one was smaller than the one they were rushing down .
whats that ?
exclaimed sharianna , as they came upon an unusual looking piece of equipment .
looks like some strange ore cart to me , except it does not have any wheels , answered joseph .
it was about 20 feet long and 8 feet wide , shaped like a dish and it was full of crushed rock .
how would it move ?
inquired sharianna .
i dont know , but lets keep moving , said mom .
as they hurried on , they came to an even larger tunnel that had many of the same kind of carts on one side were full ones , while on the other side , they were empty .
they continued on .
suddenly , they burst into a huge open room .
it was well lit because the walls and floor were made of the same glowing metal that they had found elsewhere .
they could see that it must be a central shaft .
it had many other tunnels entering into it , like a giant wagon wheel .
in the center of this central hub they saw a pile of ore carts , many of which were smashed and lying in a disorganized pile .
the shaft was very tall at the top they could actually see stars .
theres the way out !
exclaimed sharianna .
yeah , but how do we get up there ?
questioned joseph .
this must be the volcano shaped mountain we flew over when we saw the obeliskits a mine !
deduced mom .
how far up do you think it is , dad ?
inquired joseph .
it must be at least one or two thousand feet , he estimated .
thomas looked up intently at the towering walls , examining every detail .
look , over there there are windows up there that look out into this shaft .
maybe its a control room .
directly below the windows , on their level , joseph thought he could see a doorway .
over there , i think its a door !
he exclaimed .
if there is a way up to the control room , then maybe there is access all the way to the top !
mom nearly shouted , but she caught herself , not wanting to alert any of the creatures from the lake that might be in the vicinity of their whereabouts .
they started across the floor and wound their way around the disabled ore carts .
wait , i saw something move up there in the window , sharianna said .
everyone looked up , but the windows looked the same as they did before .
are you sure ?
asked mom .
no , i guess im not , replied sharianna .
well , lets be on our guard , anyway , cautioned dad .
they paused near the large pile of ore carts to catch their breath .
ill bet these carts used some kind of antigravity technolo gy , like the robot , theorized joseph .
maybe , answered dad , but the metal is definitely not the same .
i agree judging from the smashed up condition of these containers , i would say the metal is definitely not as strong either , concluded joseph .
im getting hungry , and im tired , complained sharianna .
me too , agreed joseph .
i know , said mom compassionately , as she pulled them both to her and gave them a hug .
they continued across the huge shaft and entered the door way , into a foyer a hallway led directly away , and a very small room was on the left .
joseph stepped into the room .
it looks like it might be an elevator , he said , as he mo tioned the others to follow .
on the wall next to the door was a small knob , seated in a groove that was about two feet long .
at intervals along the groove were strange alien symbols .
joseph assumed that these indicated the different levels , or floors .
when they were all inside , he slid the knob up .
nothing happened .
looking across the foyer , sharianna saw a door .
i think that looks like stairs through the window of that other door .
i think youre right lets try it , suggested dad .
they quickly made their way across the foyer .
the door was slightly ajar .
dad pushed on it and it opened .
mom looked back into the foyer .
in different circumstances , i would love to investigate some more , but right now , all i want to do is get back to the robot as quickly as we can .
the staircase led both up and down in a steep spiral , like the first staircase inside the obelisk , except this one did not have the clear tube filled with water .
the stairway was a curious work of art , because the stairwell was essentially a round shaft going straight up with flat ledges about an inch thick jutting out of the wall creating the steps .
there were no handrails .
the stairs and the walls were made of the luminescent metal .
joseph leaned out and looked up and down the center of the shaft .
it was hard to tell the extent of the staircase because the steps seemed numberless .
at least it looks like it goes up a long way , he said , maybe even to the top .
they climbed and climbed .
it was hard work because each step was about a foot and a half high .
why are these steps so high ?
asked joseph .
isnt it obvious , stated sharianna , the aliens who built it were hugeat least they were very tall .
dont you think so , dad ?
it sure seems that way , replied dad .
he laughed with his next comment or maybe they just had long legs .
so , what happened to them ?
asked sharianna .
mom , what do you think ?
im wondering if the aliens offended the lake creatures , like we did , speculated joseph .
i think i agree with josephs premise perhaps the lake creatures destroyed them or drove them out .
maybe the creatures became too troublesome and the aliens simply abandoned the mine , answered mom .
dad interjected another theory maybe the mine played out .
played out ?
questioned sharianna .
ran out of ore .
i doubt it , countered mom , if they left of their own volition then why are there so many ore carts piled up in the middle of the main shaft ?
i think the power was shut off suddenly and they all fell to the floor .
your logic is impeccable , complemented dad .
look , the control room , said joseph .
as they reached the level of the control room , the stairwell became open the stairs were free standing as they continued up and disappeared into the shaft in the ceiling , like the stairs in a modern art apartment .
they could see the windows that looked out over the central shaft .
along the windows were some table like desks , about five feet high , with a row of tall stools in front of them .
on the floor were several peculiar balls .
they were about the size of a soccer ball and , like the soccer ball , rather than being perfectly round , they were multisided .
they were very shiny and looked like polished stainless steel .
this room had a high ceiling .
it was long and narrow , probably three times as long as it was wide .
they could see four openings , three without doors that looked like they led into other rooms or tunnels , and one with a door that was closed .
dad walked over and picked up one of the shinny balls .
it was deceptively heavy .
thomas expected it to be light , because of the moons low gravity , but to his surprise it felt like it might be solid metal .
he heaved it onto one of the stools and looked out the window into the main mine shaft .
i think we are a little more than halfway to the top , he declared .
sharianna climbed up onto one of the stools .
it must be a control station , observed sharianna , look at all these levers and switches .
look at this , dear , said sophia .
thomas turned , and saw mom and joseph standing in front of a three dimensional model made of a material that looked clear something like acrylic .
the whole model was over 5 feet tall .
its a model of the mine !
exclaimed joseph .
see , heres the obelisk and the underground lake and the tunnels that we came through .
the top of the model showed in perfect detail the surface of the moon , while the extensive labyrinth of tunnels , shafts and rooms were all cut directly from the acrylic like material .
and heres the central shaft and the mountain , said mom .
we are right here .
look !
she exclaimed excitedly , we dont have to go all the way to the top !
there is a tunnel leading from this control room , directly to the base of the mountain .
sharianna pulled her camera from her fanny pack .
the fanny pack was pretty shredded up , and the camera had scratches on it , but the display still worked .
she took a picture of the model .
did you get a picture of the lake creatures ?
asked joseph .
do you think i had any time to take a picture ?
she retorted .
well , lets get going !
said dad .
this way , exclaimed mom , full of hope and excitement , as she ran toward the tunnel entrance .
they entered the tunnel and began to run past a small mine cart , not much bigger than a golf cart , when joseph stopped and leaped up onto the cart .
wait !
this one has seats and controls .
maybe it still works .
joseph climbed up onto the drivers seat .
here , hold this , instructed joseph , as he handed the four foot piece of railing to sharianna .
the controls seemed simple there was only one knob .
he pushed forward on it , and back , but it did nothing , he pushed it from side to side .
by this time the rest of the family was up on the cart and seated .
i guess it lost power with the rest of them , said mom .
joseph got an idea .
he pulled up on the knob .
suddenly , the cart lifted off the floor .
yippee !
exclaimed sharianna , get us out of here !
wait , said dad , as he leaped off the cart and ran back into the control room .
what are you doing ?
demanded mom .
ill be right back , he replied .
a moment later , dad returned lugging one of the heavy metal balls .
why did you get that ?
asked mom .
i dont know , i guess i wanted a souvenir , replied dad as he put the ball on the floor .
that thing feels like it weighs at least a hundred pounds .
that means it will weigh six hundred pounds when we get back to earth , said joseph .
dad looked at the ball with a puzzled look , i dont think even solid iron would weigh that much .
well , the moons gravity is only one sixth of earth , right ?
replied joseph .
yes , said dad contemplatively .
i think i would have chosen a souvenir that was easier to carry , said mom .
they sped through the tunnel and onto the surface of the moon .
they could see the obelisk in the distance .
the cart raced over the rough terrain , perfectly smoothly .
within minutes they had landed right next to the robot .
chapter fifteen lets take it home mom gasped as they landed at the foot of the robot.whats the matter ?
asked dad .
the door of the robot is closed .
just whistle , instructed joseph .
mom tried to whistle but she couldnt do the catcall whistle like dad .
dad whistled .
nothing happened .
mom looked at him fearfully .
are we locked out ?
she asked .
dad whistled again .
nothing .
dad stepped onto the edge of the cart and climbed onto the robots foot .
again , he whistled in vain .
maybe the whistle only activates the main door in the control room , speculated joseph .
and it cant open because its not an airlock , added sharianna .
sophia began to panic .
she leaped onto the foot and pound ed on the hull of the ship where the door should have been with her fist .
open , she commanded , with her anxiety clearly apparent .
the ship took verbal orders before , why not now ?
try being more specific , suggested joseph .
open the outer door of the airlock .
open sesame , tried dad , as fear for his family began to wrap its bony fingers around his heart .
perceiving their anxiety , percy barked .
there must be a secret latch , or something , insisted dad , as he ran his fingers all over the surface of the ship as far as he could reach .
hand me the railing , please , requested mom .
sharianna handed her the railing .
mom followed dads example and began tapping with the railing all over the top of the foot , hoping to find a hidden actuator .
when dad was sure he had definitely pushed every square inch of the hull that he could reach , he turned back to his family .
putting his hand on moms arm he said softly , i dont think there is an exterior actuator .
what are we going to do ?
she whispered , as she sank to her knees next to sharianna .
tears of despair began to flow silently down her cheeks .
dad knelt down next to her .
well figure it out .
theyre planning a permanent manned station here on the moon , proffered joseph , trying to sound positive , as he stood next to dad .
when is the next mission ?
questioned sharianna .
next year , he sighed sadly .
sharianna put her arms around mom .
dad continued to search in vain for a hidden actuator and tried all kinds of whistles in an attempt to open the airlock door .
joseph tried whistling , but to no avail .
thomas had no idea how long they had been there , the minutes may have stretched into hours he felt weak .
he stood in front of the airlock door he could no longer whistle .
sophias panic was beginning to take hold of him as well .
the knot in his stomach seemed to threaten to overwhelm his whole being .
tears began to stream down sophias face .
she knew they were trapped outside , but it still seemed better than being trapped inside the obelisk , or the mine with the terrifying creatures .
suddenly , sharianna remembered the last time she had given the ship a command she had addressed it specifically .
she offered a silent prayer through her tears then said , robo ship , open the outer door of the airlock .
the door silently and smoothly slid open .
thank you sharianna , sobbed mom , her tears of distress now turned to tears of joy as they entered the airlock .
no , thank god , acknowledged sharianna quietly , as she thought about her silent prayer .
yes , thank god , agreed dad .
thomas was about to push the button to close the airlock door when he remembered the metal ball in the alien cart .
my souvenir , he exclaimed , as he leaped across the robots foot and retrieved the strange ball .
as soon as dad crossed the threshold of the airlock , he was no longer able to carry the ball and it landed on the bathroom door with a thud .
i guess joseph was right we dont even have to wait till we get back to earth for it to weigh three hundred pounds , laughed mom .
sharianna pushed the button and the door slid silently closed and they began to hear the air return to the airlock and the gravitational pull slowly rotated until they were all standing on the floor again .
the ball slowly rolled down the bathroom door , until it also came to a rest on the floor of the airlock .
as the door to the hallway opened , dad rushed headlong to the control room .
i think we should get out of here , suggested mom .
dad lifted off and they hovered over the surface of the moon , looking back toward the obelisk .
he flew the robot a few miles away and landed on top of a small mountain .
joseph grabbed his bag of doritos off the chair im really starving now .
mom began to get up .
ill make something to eat .
dad stood up .
no , you take it easy , ill get it .
well both get it , she insisted .
i wasnt planning on an extended trip , so there is not much in the way of a real meal , but well manage .
joseph and sharianna took off their space suits .
here , sharianna , help me get percys suit off , joseph said .
as they pulled on percys suit , it just stretched , but would not come apart .
why wont his suit come off ?
inquired mom .
sharianna suddenly remembered when joseph had pretended to be suffocating in the suit and she had tried to remove it .
it only responds to itself , she explained .
joseph grabbed percys two front feet and used them to pull on the suit and it came right apart .
after dinner , they made their way to the control room .
where to now ?
mars ?
inquired sharianna , who now felt safe inside the robot .
she was half serious , as she sat in one of the control chairs and looked at the console with the depiction of the solar system .
yeah , right , responded dad , with a hint of sarcasm .
i think we should go home first .
sharianna felt a little nervous as they flew up from the surface , but her piloting skills were very good , she was a natural .
she looked over at joseph , who occupied the other control chair .
she was surprised and very pleased when he looked back at her with a serious face , raised his eyebrows , and nodded his head slightly in approval .
she smiled wide back at him .
looks like there is still one more site to investigate , observed joseph , as he looked at the view screen in front of them .
okay , one last site , agreed dad .
sharianna lined up the last circle with the dot in the middle of the screen and flew toward the surface .
its another rocket , stated sharianna , as they approached the site .
but its not as smashed up as the other ones , observed mom .
from the looks of it , they didnt have a very smooth land ing , concluded joseph .
im going to land next to that big piece , over there .
sharianna pointed to a large piece that looked like part of the outer hull of the rocket .
she eased back on the controls as she hovered for a moment , while turning the robot from a horizontal flying position to an upright position , ready for landing .
as she touched the surface , only a small cloud of dust was kicked up .
good landing , whispered joseph .
but dont get a big head , he added quietly from the side of his mouth .
she smiled without looking at him .
joseph read the nearly obliterated letters on the wreckage dia .
what does that mean ?
i think there are two letters missing in , deduced mom .
india ?
i heard that they had recently sent a rocket to the moon , confirmed dad .
were any astronauts on board ?
asked sharianna with some concern , as she looked at the wreckage .
no , it was unmanned i think they just sent it so they could make a claim if the moon ever became valuable real estate , explained dad .
can we go out and explore the crash site ?
inquired joseph .
i think we can see it just fine from right here , stated mom definitively .
i think one moon walk is enough .
okay , moaned joseph with a sigh .
what then ?
sharianna wanted to know .
everyones had a chance to fly .
dad motioned for joseph to vacate his seat .
ill take this ship home .
joseph made his way down to the front observation area .
better view from down here anyway .
come on sharianna .
mom interjected , thats okay sharianna , you can stay there i havent seen the view from down below yet .
she went down the steps to join joseph .
hey , what about the little hover cart that we left by the obelisk ?
asked joseph .
lets take it home !
exclaimed sharianna .
it would barely fit in the cargo bay , argued mom .
be sides , what would we do with it ?
i want to take it apart and see how it works , replied joseph .
that would be extremely interesting , agreed dad , as he pushed forward on the stick and the robot took a step forward , flattening the large piece of debris from the india rocket .
oops , i guess i better find the right gear .
he smiled amidst roaring laughter from his family .
where is it ?
asked sharianna , as they approached the obelisk .
dad flew all the way around the obelisk .
its gone , he concluded .
the door into the obelisk is closed .
do you think the lake creatures came out and got it ?
asked joseph .
i doubt it , answered dad .
i would think they would have to stay down where there is some atmosphere .
then what ?
demanded mom .
sharianna did see something in the window of the control room , offered joseph .
maybe someone came out and got it , speculated dad .
or some thing , posed sharianna .
it could have even been programmed to return automatical ly , suggested joseph .
well fly over to the tunnel and see , said dad .
first , lets see if there are any new footprints , said mom .
dad bent the robot down close to the surface they could not see any footprints other than their own and the astronauts .
nope , nothing , observed dad .
i dont see any slime trails either , said joseph .
okay , lets take one more look at the tunnel before we go , agreed mom .
hey , the tunnel is closed !
exclaimed joseph , as they approached .
should we fly down into the main mine shaft ?
no way !
answered mom .
if there is something down there , i dont want to find out if its technology is great enough to pose a risk to the robotwere leaving .
the moon quickly receded into the distance as they ap proached earth .
this time they didnt hit any asteroids .
thomas made a mental note to look up the asteroids on the internet and find out more about their orbits .
lets fly around the earth before we land i heard you can see the great wall of china from space , suggested mom , as they made their approach to earth .
joseph laughed , thats just a myth , mom .
nasa debunked it a long time ago .
well , we can see for ourselves , cant we ?
insisted mom .
alright , i dont see how it could hurt , concurred dad .
the western hemisphere was again shrouded in darkness as they entered the orbit of the earth .
only the lights from cities were discernable from that distance .
can you see salt lake city ?
asked dad .
i think so , but it looks pretty dim compared to los ange les .
look how bright mexico city is , mom observed .
you know , thats one of the largest cities in the world , commented joseph wistfully as he remembered a talk that the beautiful rosa maria had given in his social studies class .
he liked her almost as much as he liked allison .
joseph remem bered scaring allison when he dragged her by the ankle toward the deep water of the reservoir .
he felt a little guilt at scaring her so much .
ill tell her it was me , maybe she will think it was funny .
no , id better not she would probably think i was immature or inconsiderate , he thought .
he was suddenly brought back to the present what is that ?
sharianna pointed directly ahead at an odd looking structure floating in space with flat panels extending from it that looked a little like wings .
chapter sixteen the ambush its the space station !
exclaimed mom .
youd better steer around that .
the robot was overtaking the space station so rapidly that they were along side of it before dad had time to push the stick sideways .
the robot darted off into space .
but not before they saw , in one of the small windows , the face of a female astronaut .
do you think she saw us ?
asked sharianna .
i dont see how she could not have , confirmed mom .
dad steered back toward the earth and a few minutes later they saw the sun rising on the horizon and they were flying over the atlantic .
theres europe , the mediterranean sea , and africa !
exclaimed joseph .
slow down , or well blast right past china , cautioned mom .
go a little lower , dad , said joseph .
as thomas began his descent , they suddenly heard a loud noise on the hull of the ship .
that sounded like another asteroid , theorized sharianna .
i think it was more like a metallic crunching sound , observed joseph .
it was a satellite , deduced mom .
oops , i hope someone can do without their satellite tv , said joseph .
or it could be radio , gps , internet , or even a military satellite .
we might as well have rung the front doorbell , if it was military , observed sharianna .
ill fly down into the upper atmosphere so that we wont hit any more , decided dad .
watch out for airplanes , warned sharianna , as she remem bered their near miss the day before .
was it really only a day ago ?
or was it two days ?
she thought to herself .
it seems like we have been gone so long .
they dont fly this high , replied dad .
i remember , when we went to the airplane museum at hill air force base , i learned that some of the spy planes , like the blackbird , fly through the upper atmosphere , corrected joseph .
i think you are right , conceded dad .
i think well just have to be careful .
off to their right they could see the towering snow capped peaks of the himalayas , except that from their altitude they just looked like a little crinkle in the crust of the earth .
theres china .
but i dont see the great wall , said joseph .
i guess you cant see it from space after all , said mom with disappointment .
but i would sure like to see it anyway .
maybe we could go lower ?
dad brought the robot lower , until they were just above the clouds .
suddenly , the great wall came into view , snaking its way across miles and miles of countryside , but the clouds obscured most of it .
thomas slowed the robot some more and decreased their altitude until they were just below the clouds , to get a better look .
the view was so spectacular that thomas brought the robot to a stop and hovered in the air .
sharianna couldnt resist taking some pictures .
wow , we could go anywhere we wanted to , marveled joseph .
how about the pyramids ?
those , you can see from space .
id like to look at the egyptian obelisks and compare them with the one on the moon , said mom .
suddenly , out of the clouds appeared five mig fighter jets , only a few hundred yards away , and traveling at top speed .
at that same instant , all five fired off two rockets each and veered up , back into the clouds .
dads reflexes were quick and his thoughts just as quick .
knowing that the fighters were in the clouds and not wanting to run into one of them , he chose to dive .
the mig commander must have anticipated the movements of the ufo because the rockets were deployed in a star pattern , with only the center rocket heading straight for them .
the moment the jets were in the cloudbank they fired off another ten rockets towards the rear of the ufo in hopes that if the ufo attempted to retreat it would actually run into one of them , like moving landmines in the sky .
the commander of the migs was a very calculating man and had spaced the rockets so perfectly that they were impossible to avoid .
he smiled as he watched his radar screen tracking seven other migs who had been instructed to drop out of the clouds behind the ufo and fire all their rockets underneath it two seconds before the five migs that had descended from the clouds in front of the ufo .
the mig commander dropped back out of the clouds just in time to see the perfect execution of his surprise attack as the ufo became engulfed in a huge explosion , as it dove directly into one of the rockets that he had shrewdly fired from behind .
the exhilaration of his triumph was momentary however , for as he watched , he saw the ufo streak toward the ground , faster than any craft he had ever seen .
his delight returned fleetingly as he thought that crashing with the ground was inevitable .
a microsecond before impact , the ufo made an impossible 90 degree turn and sped away only a few yards above the ground .
within moments it had disappeared over the horizon .
just as they dove to miss the oncoming missiles , they heard a deafening explosion and the screen in front of them became shrouded in flames .
then the ground became the greatest threat as it came rushing toward them at an incredible speed .
thomas pulled out of the dive and the robot went zooming along the surface of the ground .
the earth was all a blur .
look out for that mountain !
screamed sophia .
thomas pulled up enough to just skim the snow covered peak .
thomas slowed the robot , in order to gain more control over his trajectory .
strangely , it occurred to him that they were flying much faster than the speed of sound and he wondered how loud the sonic boom must be along their flight path .
suddenly , they saw water ahead as they flew over the yellow sea .
they saw a vapor trail from a rocket that had been launched from north korea , but they easily veered to the right , flying over south korea , and it exploded harmlessly in the air .
they crossed the sea of japan in just a few moments and flew right over tokyo .
as they flew out over the pacific ocean , they suddenly saw a huge aircraft carrier with jets buzzing off its deck like a swarm of bees .
again , dad veered right , putting them on a course due south .
the supersonic jets were quickly left in the distance .
thomas began to realize the significance of what had just happened .
as he brought the robot to a stop just above the surface of the water , he realized that the robot must show up on radar or some other tracking system .
they must be able to track us , he said nervously , as he relaxed his white knuckle grip on the controls .
there is no other way they could have surprised us like that .
that was close , that rocket almost hit us , cried sharianna .
i think it did hit us !
asserted joseph .
do you think the robot is damaged ?
inquired mom .
i dont think so , responded dad , but his thoughts were racing .
he remembered hearing that radar could not track airplanes close to the ground .
he hoped that they did not have any more sophisticated tracking devices than that .
joseph must have been thinking the same things because he verbalized dads concern if the chinese could track us so well then what about nasa , or our own military ?
he paused , how will we get back home without being detected and followed ?
they dont know about us , they only know about a ufo .
right ?
rationalized sharianna .
thats right , agreed dad , as he looked around in the sky for planes and across the waves to see if there were any more ships .
we could go back out to space , suggested mom .
but they would probably track us .
eventually , we would need to go home , countered dad .
ill bet they have satellite tracking for intercontinental missiles and who knows what else .
they even saw us on the space station , added joseph .
low over the waves , they suddenly saw a formation of fighter jets screaming toward them .
chapter seventeen the mariana trench those couldnt have come from china , declared mom , apprehensively .
they couldnt be from that carrier near tokyo eitherthere are no planes that fast , said joseph .
what if they fire on us too ?
sharianna looked down .
hey , what about the ocean ?
immediately , dad lowered the robot beneath the surface of the waves .
do you think they saw us ?
asked sharianna .
i dont know but were not going to wait around to find out .
now i know they can track us otherwise , they could not have found us so quickly .
dad piloted the ship through the water as fast as he dared .
i dont want to make a wake that they can follow .
maybe they already had an aircraft carrier in the vicinity , mom speculated .
they must have some sophisticated form of global position ing , or somethingi wonder how they are tracking uswe dont give off any heat and we dont make any sound , pondered dad , as he dove down even deeper .
how deep do you think we are ?
asked sharianna .
i dont know but we can still see , so we cant be more than one or two hundred feet .
i think we have been oblivious tourists too long , declared mom .
we need a plan .
how are we going to get home without being detected again ?
i dont want them tracking us straight to the barn .
i dont really even know where we are , complained dad .
were in the pacific ocean , stated joseph , proudly .
that doesnt help much , replied dad .
the pacific is huge .
joseph suddenly remembered that he had grabbed his back pack when they were loading the robot because he wanted his ipod that was in it .
i havent even used it , he thought .
hey , i still have your gps in my backpack !
he jumped up and , clearing the steps up to the main level in one leap , crossed the control cabin with two big steps .
ducking his head , he darted into the small corridor that led to the cargo bay .
will it work clear out here ?
asked sharianna , while joseph was gone to get it .
the gps works off of many satellites that orbit the entire earth it should work , explained dad hopefully .
as long as the satellite we destroyed wasnt the key gps satellite , commented mom wryly .
joseph returned with his backpack .
look what else ive got !
he exclaimed , as he dramatically pulled from his backpack his astronomy book that uncle jared had given him .
were not in space anymore , said sharianna tersely .
yeah , but look here , its not just about space , he retorted , as he opened it up to a large fold out map of the world .
excellent !
praised dad .
yea !
exclaimed mom happily , as she looked at the gps .
it works .
now we know where we are and where we are going all we have to decide is how we are going to get there .
joseph wrote the coordinates down on the map .
if we lived on the coast we could stay under water the whole way , said sharianna .
what if we approached from the north , across the great salt lake ?
suggested joseph .
there is nothing out there .
joseph was looking at his map .
what if we came from way up north ?
if we flew really low , ill bet no one would even see us crossing canada .
joseph drew a line on the map with a pencil across the pacific , between hawaii and japan , through the north pacific , through the bearing straight , into the arctic ocean , then back south through the northwest passage to hudson bay , across the north end of manitoba , then down through saskatchewan , montana , idaho and back to salt lake city .
we can stay hidden under water almost the whole way .
yeah , but look , its a lot farther over land from hudson bay than it is from the california coast , sharianna pointed out .
i like josephs idea because there are fewer people up north , said mom .
look , a whale !
interrupted dad , as he saw a large silhou ette out in front and above them , coming their way .
it must be a blue whaleits so huge , gasped joseph .
suddenly , dad was gripped with trepidation as he realized that the silhouette did not swim like a whale .
he began diving deeper .
thats not a whale , its a submarine , joseph corrected himself .
the submarine matched their descent .
dad increased his speed and began to pull away .
how deep do you think we can go ?
asked sharianna .
deeper than them , i hope , replied dad .
thats a nuclear submarine its real maximum dive depth is still classified .
the light from the surface began to fade and they could no longer see the submarine .
why didnt they fire on us ?
asked sharianna .
therere probably american .
and not as impetuous as the chinese , dad replied .
they probably want to capture us without completely destroying the ship , he theorized , as they dove deeper .
or maybe they just want to talk to us ?
proposed sharianna .
they would probably experiment on us and dissect us , warned joseph .
they wouldnt dissect us .
would they ?
dad ?
inquired sharianna .
no , i dont think so besides , they are not going to catch us , are they ?
he replied .
it wont matter , if the pressure crushes us , cautioned mom , with a little worry in her voice .
i dont hear any creaking , consoled joseph .
whats that supposed to mean ?
questioned sharianna .
submarines always creak before they are crushed , joseph reasoned .
how do you know that ?
sharianna probed skeptically .
its in all the movies , he replied matter of factly .
oh , so then it must be true , she answered sarcastically .
mom looked at the gps .
it wasnt working .
at least the built in compass is still working , she said .
joseph , what were the last coordinates ?
i think were too deep for the gps , speculated dad .
joseph looked on the map where he had written down the coordinates , 147.22 degrees longitude and 17.68 degrees north .
he located the position on the map .
were right over the mariana trench !
the map says it is the worlds deepest sounding 35,827 feet .
thats deep , agreed mom .
yeah , you could take mount everest , the tallest mountain on earth , and put it upside down in the mariana trench and it still would not reach the bottom , commented dad .
how do you know where you are going ?
asked mom .
i dont , replied dad .
its black as pitch out there , complained sharianna .
what is that ?
inquired joseph , as a small light appeared on the screen .
they drew closer and joseph suddenly exclaimed its a bioluminescent jellyfish !
and its huge !
mom , remember the book you got me about the creatures in the deep oceans ?
a lot of creatures down here make their own light .
dad brought the ship to a stop in front of the large jellyfish , but it swam down into the deep .
sharianna remembered watching one of the nova programs with dad i wish we had those spotlights that the deep sea rovs have on them .
she suddenly got an idea robo ship , light up the water in front of us .
immediately , light shone from the eyes of the robot , lighting the ocean in front of them for several hundred feet .
there was a flurry of motion as creatures scurried to escape the unfamiliar light .
wow , theres a lot of life down here , marveled mom .
dad proceeded with renewed confidence at least now he could see if they were about to plow into an underwater mountain or the ocean floor .
do you think the submarine can track us ?
asked joseph .
i dont know what its sensor range is , answered dad , but im quite sure that we can move a lot faster underwater than they can .
if we stay ahead of them and dont follow a straight line , i think we can lose them .
and there is no way they can dive as deep as us , stated mom .
right ?
yeah , right , replied dad , with an air of confidence that did not altogether reflect his actual thoughts .
suddenly , there appeared a huge , unusual looking creature that extended from the top of the screen down into the murky darkness .
a giant squid !
exclaimed joseph .
again , dad brought the robot to a stop .
i think we are the first people to ever see a giant squid , this big , alive , he said .
it must be 100 feet long !
look , it has something in its tentacles , exclaimed joseph .
as they looked closer they could see that it had actually captured a shark , about six feet long , in its tentacles and was bringing it up to its mouth .
they were close enough to see the light reflect from its great big eyes .
unexpectedly , from above the squid , they saw a huge shape descend .
the giant invertebrate was preoccupied with consuming its newly captured meal it did not discern the danger that sped toward it from above .
joseph immediately recognized the huge blunt , square head extending a third of the way down the body , and its small , under slung lower jaw .
small , was a relative thing it was only small when compared to the total size of the head the jaw was still over eight feet long .
its a sperm whale !
get a picture of that sharianna !
he exclaimed , as they heard a very low toned reverberation that sounded a little like a sonic boom .
immediately , the squid seemed to go limp and what was left of the shark slowly drifted down into the depths , as the 60 foot whale opened its mouth and with a movement of its tongue created a vacuum that sucked the invertebrate into its mouth .
as soon as the huge jaws closed on the body of the invertebrate , its tentacles seemed to spring back to life , writhing and twining themselves around the head and neck of the colossal mammal , tearing and pulling at the whales skin , but to no avail .
with a large swish of its tail it swung its great head in the direction of the robot and seemed to pause as it observed them with its huge eyes .
the great beast opened its mouth and with another sucking motion of its tongue drew in another eight feet of the giant invertebrate .
finally , the tentacles released their grip on the whale as he continued to feast .
then , with what looked like a deliberate nod of acknowledgment in the direction of the robot , it turned its immense square head and gracefully began its long ascent to the surface with the remnants of the squids tentacles trailing from its huge mouth .
the whole family sat speechless for a moment as the whale disappeared into the darkness above .
finally , joseph broke the silence , awesome , was all he could say .
yes , awesome , echoed dad .
dad pressed forward on the stick again until both small and large fauna streamed past the robot at an amazing speed .
he estimated that they must be traveling at somewhere between fifty and seventy five miles per hour , by the rate that creatures came into view in the lights and then disappeared back into the black expanse as they passed them .
off to the right , the wall of the underwater canyon came into view .
this confirmed josephs previous declaration that they were over the mariana trench , for they now seemed to be deep within its walls .
look , the walls are alive with life , observed mom .
dad slowed down in order to get a better look .
to their surprise , they saw a myriad of fish and other creatures the orange roughy , with its orange skin , the snaggletooth and the anglerfish with their bioluminescent fishing lures and their enormous teeth .
they saw several kinds of translucent jellyfish with their poisonous tentacles .
stop .
there , to the right , instructed sharianna .
that section of wall moved .
as they approached closer , suddenly they saw a huge creature .
it looks like a manta ray , speculated joseph .
no way , exclaimed sharianna .
look at those huge tentacles .
it looks like it has huge paws with a dozen or so sharp hooks on each of those two longest tentacles .
as they approached , they startled a large fish about four feet long from its resting place on a rock shelf .
it darted past the hiding place of the colossal squid .
like a flash , it reached out and embedded its long hooks into the fish and quickly drew it in .
its almost as long as the robot and must weigh at least a ton , estimated dad .
they turned away from the wall and continued their descent into the trench .
why are you diving even deeper ?
questioned mom .
i still havent heard any creaking .
dad smiled , as he looked at joseph with a wink .
no , really , i just want to make sure we put a lot of distance and depth between us and the submarine besides , wouldnt you like to see what is at the bottom ?
yes , answered joseph .
its even better than climbing the tallest mountain .
but the gps doesnt work when we are so deep , comment ed mom .
i know , well have to come up near the surface to figure out where we are but in the meantime , i want to make sure we have lost them for good .
as they dove deeper and deeper into the trench they observed fewer animals , until finally they seemed to be alone in the depths .
when they reached the bottom , dad stopped .
he put a finger to his lips .
shhh dad paused as his eyes darted around at the curved ceiling .
did you hear a creak ?
stop it , dad !
commanded sharianna .
they continued traveling south along the bottom of the trench .
abruptly , they discovered a large number of army tanks and jeeps from the world war ii era strewn along the bottom .
they were somewhat deteriorated by the salt water , but all seemed to be intact .
they looked around for the ship that must have been carrying them but they could not find one in the vicinity .
suddenly , dad remembered a program on tv .
after the war , rather than bring so much equipment back home , they just dumped them in the ocean .
that seems very wasteful , said sharianna , as if she were scolding those who made that decision .
what is that light !
exclaimed mom , as she pointed toward a very faint glow a short distance beyond the reach of the robots lights .
how could there be any light way down here ?
marveled joseph .
as they approached the mysterious illumination , they could gradually make out the sharply defined outline of a man made structure silhouetted against the unearthly red glow .
it appeared that the structure had a few windows in the upper sections that also emanated the strange glow .
mom put her hand on dads shoulder .
what is it ?
she asked .
maybe its a sunken city ?
ventured joseph .
maybe its another space ship ?
proposed sharianna .
chapter eighteen island paradise as they approached the structure , joseph unraveled the mystery its a sunken ship .
but where is the light coming from ?
it still has airplanes strapped to the deck , exclaimed sharianna , as they got closer .
its a world war ii aircraft carrier , said dad .
they passed over the rusting old ship and discovered the source of the strange luminosity .
a crack in the floor of the ocean exposed the molten lava below .
why doesnt the lava solidify when it is exposed to the water ?
asked sharianna .
why doesnt it spew out like a volcano ?
added joseph .
it must be one of those peculiar balances in nature , mom theorized .
the extreme pressure of the water from above keeps the lava down , while the extreme heat from below keeps it hot .
like the moon earths gravity keeps it from flying out of orbit , but its momentum keeps it from crashing into the earth , joseph declared proudly .
dad glanced at the map , some of the most intense fighting during world war ii took place right here , and on the islands west of here .
joseph turned his attention back to the map .
look , the map legend says that one inch equals 660 miles .
if we went mostly straight on the route home , we would be underwater for about nine inches .
joseph was scrawling on the back cover of the book .
that is almost 6,000 miles .
how fast do you think we were going dad ?
probably fifty , maybe seventy five miles per hour .
joseph continued his math on the back cover .
at 50 miles an hourthat would be 120 hours , or five days , interrupted sharianna , who was happy to display her quick math skills .
we didnt seem to be making very much disturbance i dont see why we couldnt double our speed when were in open water , suggested mom .
now sharianna was looking at the map .
there is quite a bit of information about the ocean on here .
it shows where the basins are and where the mountains are ... joseph interrupted , it also shows how deep the water is .
i was trying to saythe basins are probably flat so we could go pretty fast without crashing into any underwater mountains .
good idea , agreed dad .
looking at the map , dad said if we turn left from the mariana trench , we would be heading east .
then we could zigzag north in a random pattern .
sounds good to me , concurred mom .
i brought some food , but i dont think it will be enough and a lot of it is just junk food .
an exciting idea occurred to joseph .
why dont we catch some fish ?
sharianna interpreted the direction of his thoughts .
we could use the spacesuits and go diving .
she was not interested in fishing , but she thought it would be splendid to swim with the tropical fish .
thomas had always dreamed of diving in tropical waters , but always had to be content with watching the nature channel , so he was an easy sell .
the idea even sounded exciting to sophia .
okay !
cried mom and dad in unison .
mom looked at the clock .
its almost morning .
no , i think it is almost dusk , countered dad .
im going by our clock , and we havent had much sleep the last few days .
ill fix something to eat , then we all better get some sleep .
thomas rose from the anti gravity sofa feeling more rested and invigorated than he could ever remember .
he looked at shariannas clock as he entered the control room .
ten hours ?
he said to himself .
he could scarcely believe it .
he hadnt slept for ten hours straight for a very long time .
he began examining josephs book earth and the stars .
he opened it up to the world map and studied it .
he wondered what columbus and the early explorers would have given to have a map so accurate and full of such an incredible amount of information .
thomas looked up as joseph quietly entered the control room .
moms fixing breakfast , and shariannas still sleeping , reported joseph , in response to his dads glance toward the doorway .
okay , navigator , lets plot our course , ordered dad , with his big smile , as he handed joseph the book .
joseph liked the idea of being the ships navigator .
it looks like there are a lot of little islands south of here , the caroline islands maybe we can find an uninhabited shore for our fishing expedition , he proposed hopefully .
when they rose up over the rim of the mariana trench , they traveled south along the bottom of the east mariana basin and the ocean slowly became shallower .
the silty mud on the bottom gradually gave way to sand as the floor of the ocean sloped up more steeply with many exposed rocks and what looked like ancient lava flows .
directly in front of them they encountered a huge cliff , fractured and broken , with many crevasses and caves .
as they rose along the cliff face it gradually got brighter .
when they got near the top of the cliff they could see beautiful coral attached to the rock with an abundance of highly colored tropical fish .
it looks like a giant aquarium , gasped sharianna incredu lously .
the water was calm and so beautiful and crystal clear that they could actually see trees and the shoreline with a mountain rising up behind the trees through the water as they paused near the surface .
the early morning tropical sun was beginning to rise in the eastern sky .
i wish we had a periscope to get a better view and see if there is anyone around , commented dad .
sharianna couldnt take her eyes off the pretty fish .
i sure hope the colors are as bright in the pictures , she said , as she snapped several shots .
then she noticed a large , bare rock right at the edge of the cliff .
why dont we park the robot on that big rock over there ?
she suggested .
that way we wont crunch any of the coral reef and the robot could stay hidden under the water while we explore the shore it doesnt look very far to the beach .
we swam a lot farther than that when we wore the space suits in the lake , added joseph , who was eager to get out and explore .
i cant see any people , or any sign of civilization , observed mom .
okay , but well leave the robot here , just to be safe , determined dad , as he maneuvered the robot over to the large rock .
while standing upright on the rock , the surface of the water was only ten or fifteen feet above the robots head .
no , not you this time boy , joseph rubbed percys ears and head , as they proceeded to get into their spacesuits .
joseph emptied everything out of his backpack and put it on , before donning his spacesuit .
the water might come rushing in when we open the outer door , cautioned dad as they all stood in the airlock .
mom looked at dads strange metal ball , shouldnt we put that in the cargo bay ?
she asked .
dad tried to pick it up without success .
dont you remember , dad , it weighs at least three hundred pounds now , sharianna reminded him .
thomas began rolling the ball down the hallway to the cargo area .
even if this were solid steel , i cant imagine how it could weigh this much , he thought .
everyone ready ?
asked dad when he got back to the airlock .
he pushed the button to open the door , but instead of it opening , water started to rise up from the floor until the little room was full right up to the ceiling .
mom felt a little nervous as the water was rising in the airlock , but then she realized how silly it was .
we just escaped from monsters on the moon , what could be more dangerous , she thought .
percy barked from the other side of the hall door .
joseph swam over to the window in the door and looked out to see percy sitting in the hall he waved as the outer door opened .
sharianna was the first one out .
she swam toward the beach , looking down at the beautiful coral and brightly colored fish .
joseph quickly caught up to her and they swam side by side .
come on you guys .
what are you waiting for ?
called out joseph , as he motioned them to follow .
its even more beautiful than ive ever seen in the pictures and the movies , marveled sharianna , as they swam over the reef .
anemones waved their colorful tentacles slowly with the gentle movement of the water .
a myriad of colors were boldly displayed on sea cucumbers , starfish and innumerable tropical fish that danced in and out among the pretty coral .
this must be the most colorful place on earth , exclaimed joseph softly .
the clear , sparkling water seemed to only enhance the bright colors .
i heard that there are more species of animals in these waters than anywhere else on the planet , commented dad .
and i believe it .
as they left the reef and swam toward the beach , joseph and sharianna noticed many beautiful seashells lying on the sandy bottom .
joseph picked up a delicate looking spiral , cone shaped shell .
sharianna spotted a huge shell , larger than a grapefruit , with pretty white , pink and salmon colors .
carrying the shell made it a little harder to swim but she figured it was worth it besides , she could put it in josephs backpack when they got to the beach .
mom and dad caught up with the two explorers as they reached the shallow water at the edge of the beach .
as they stood up and looked around , they realized that they had entered a sheltered lagoon .
directly in front of them and curving around to their left was an expanse of pristine , undisturbed , white beach , bordered by many species of tropical plants , blooming with beautiful , colorful flowers .
at the head of the lagoon it looked like there might be a small stream flowing from amongst the trees .
palm fronds swayed gently in the morning breeze .
not more than a few hundred yards from the beach rose up a steep , cone shaped mountain , the slopes of which were covered in verdant vegetation more than a third of the way up , then giving way to steeper , rocky terrain and finally , nearly vertical , barren cliffs up at the truncated summit .
it looks like an old volcano , observed sharianna .
most of these islands are , agreed mom .
even hawaii , added joseph .
off to the right , they noticed an old lava flow about ten feet high extending from the base of the volcano , through the lush vegetation and out into the ocean , protecting the lagoon from the waves , like a breakwater .
it appeared that a few very enterprising plants had begun to colonize the rocky flow , but for the most part it looked like a very bumpy highway leading from the mountain all the way down to the ocean .
as they gazed over this tropical paradise , joseph smiled as he imagined that they were the swiss family robinson .
over by the stream , joseph noticed a stand of giant bamboo .
come on dad , lets go make some fishing spears , invited joseph , as he headed toward the bamboo .
im going to search for some more seashells on the beach .
sharianna pulled off her spacesuit and slung it over a small palm tree that was growing almost horizontal to the ground .
she kicked off her shoes , and ran back toward the waters edge through the soft white sand .
go ahead and explore well be on the beach , said mom , as she followed shariannas example and removed her spacesuit .
the fresh breeze coming in from the ocean was invigorating .
she took off her shoes and ran toward the waters edge , feeling euphoric , like a little girl .
oh yeah , i almost forgot about the spacesuits , said joseph , as they added theirs to the pile on the tree .
as they approached the stand of giant bamboo , they realized how big they really were .
some of the canes that were over twelve inches in diameter and over 50 feet tall .
its hard to believe that this is grass , isnt it ?
queried dad .
putting a hand on josephs shoulder , wait , instructed dad earnestly , as he stared at the bamboo .
what is it ?
inquired joseph apprehensively , as he peered into the stand of bamboo , wondering what could be hiding in there .
after a long pause , dad continued i heard that bamboo is the fastest growing plant , and that you can actually see it grow , sometimes two or three feet in a day .
joseph breathed a sigh of relief , ill bet that observation was made by a really bored person , concluded joseph , after staring for only a few moments .
ill bet youre right , confirmed dad , as he grabbed onto one of the small canes , only about an inch and a half in diameter , and tried to break it off , without much success .
wait a minute , dad .
joseph pulled from his backpack a short knife that he had taken from the kitchen of the robot .
the entire knife was made of a strange , clear material with silver crystal flecks throughout .
joseph drew the knife across the base of the cane and it immediately cut through the tough fibers with only the slightest effort .
dad looked at the cut end in amazement .
he flipped the cane around and measured two arm lengths from the base .
did you know that most peoples stretched out arm length is the same as their height ?
that means this stick is twelve feet long , if you cut it right there .
lets explore the jungle , suggested joseph , after selecting a suitable cane for his own fishing spear .
sharianna looked up from scouring the beach for beautiful seashells to see joseph emerge from the trees carrying a huge armload of what looked like strange looking footballs , followed by dad carrying some shiny greenish , leathery looking , pear shaped objects , larger than grapefruit .
as they approached the tree where they had left their space suits they saw a small pile of the most exotic seashells they had ever seen , carefully piled up next to shariannas shoes .
wow , i have only seen most of these in expensive gift shops , declared dad .
sharianna came running up the beach .
look at this one !
she exclaimed , holding up a shell that looked like a delicate red and white spiraled corkscrew .
what are those ?
asked sharianna , pointing to the burdens they had been carrying .
coconuts !
answered joseph , as he picked one up and quickly cut through the stringy fibrous husk , revealing the familiar brown nut inside .
look , he directed , as he pierced one of the eyes of the nut and drank some of the sweet milk inside .
here , try some .
he handed the nut to sharianna .
did you see any animals in the jungle ?
asked shariana .
just lots of pretty birds , dad replied .
and lizards , added joseph .
you wont believe this , said joseph , as sharianna handed the nut back to him .
with all the flare of a professional demonstrator , he easily sliced through the hard shell of the coconut , revealing the beautiful white meat inside .
mom looked at the knife .
how does it cut so easily ?
i wish i knew , replied dad .
joseph put on his suit and grabbed his long sharp bamboo spear .
he had ingeniously fashioned a barb out of a long , curved thorn , which he had accidentally found on a formidable tree he proudly showed them the wound in his arm like a warrior exhibiting his battle scars .
he had carefully cut a small hole at a steep angle near the point of his spear and pushed the thorn all the way through until it was wedged in tight , then he shaved the thick end flush with the spear .
robinson crusoe !
exclaimed mom .
dad put his suit on , picked up his spear and brandishing it like a primitive hunter exclaimed we bring back meat !
joseph followed suit , and the two hunters then sprang toward the water yelling like primordial savages .
sharianna winced .
why cant we just sneak into a restau rant , or a supermarket , on the way home ?
good idea , agreed mom , as she donned her suit .
id sure like to explore the reef some more .
me too , said sharianna , as she picked up her suit .
sharianna swam over to explore the reef near the ancient lava flow .
as she was reaching out to touch an interesting looking piece of coral , she was startled when it suddenly swam away .
she raised her hand instinctively .
suddenly , the piece of metal that was attached to the wrist of her suit flipped open right into her hand .
she looked at it and discovered a button .
she curled her hand all the way toward her and the handle flipped back onto her wrist .
then she flipped her wrist back all the way and it flipped out again .
carefully , she put her thumb on the button .
it was round , like a roller button .
as she pushed the button slowly forward , her whole body began to move in that direction .
immediately , she released the button and her forward momentum stopped it seemed to be spring loaded .
joseph approached the reef in anticipation of spearing a fish .
he was surprised to find that the reef seemed unusually still .
must be pretty smart fish to know that we were coming , chuckled dad .
they swam on toward the drop off in hopes of finding some game there .
joseph went left along the edge of the cliff , while dad went right .
joseph spied a rather large silvery fish hiding in a cavity under a rock .
slowly , he inched closer and finally , with a strong thrust of his spear , impaled the fish and , with some difficulty , pulled it out of its hiding place .
i got one !
he exclaimed .
mom turned from examining a blue , multi armed starfish in time to see joseph freeze as a large tiger shark flashed up from the edge of the drop off and clamped its jaws onto josephs wiggling fish , biting off the end of his spear .
thomas !
mom called frantically for aid as she began swimming toward joseph .
suddenly , three more large sharks appeared and competed for the scraps from josephs fish .
joseph was right in the middle of a feeding frenzy .
joseph had seen this shark behavior on tv and knew that he was in extreme danger .
he could feel his body tighten with fear .
chapter nineteen the volcano joseph tried to swim backwards while keeping his blunt spear between himself and the sharks .
several sharks turned toward joseph and , seeming to perceive his fear , swam toward him .
joseph jabbed at them with the blunt end of his spear .
the sharks approached , as if testing for vulnerabilities , and then turned suddenly away and swam in circles around him , only to return to test him further .
sharianna pushed the button and sped toward him .
joseph , look !
joseph looked to see sharianna speeding through the water like a torpedo .
fling your wrist back like spiderman and a button will flip out that makes the suit power you through the water .
joseph followed her instructions .
when he saw a gap in the circle of sharks around him he went shooting toward the beach .
sharianna met him about halfway to the shore .
mom and dad also followed shariannas instructions and came speeding toward them .
dad was still holding his spear and he turned to face the sharks , but they were nowhere to be seen .
where did they go ?
asked mom .
in fact , they could not see any fish at all the reef seemed strangely devoid of all life .
suddenly , they noticed a strange undulation in the sand beginning from the shoreline and progressing underneath them and quickly going out to sea , accompanied by a strange , muffled rumbling sound .
the sand puffed up a few inches as the vibration moved through the seafloor .
its an earthquake !
announced joseph .
then , remembering that volcanoes and earthquakes often go together , he exclaimed the volcano they turned and looked up through the water in the direction of the volcano but the shaking of the lagoon floor had stirred up some of the sediment from the bottom and their view was cloudy .
they quickly swam to the surface and looked toward the mountain to see a thin cloud of black smoke belching from its flat top .
oh , no , cried mom .
no wonder there were no people here , groaned sharianna .
wed better get back to the robot , declared dad , as he turned out toward the ocean and , using their newfound method of propulsion , headed in the direction of the robot .
dad looked down into the cloudy water to see the bottom but he could only see a few yards down .
as they approached the place where he thought they had left the robot , he looked down but could not even see the reef .
wait here , he directed .
well all come , mom countered .
okay , but stick together , i dont want to get separated , the vision is limited down there , he cautioned , as they ducked beneath the surface .
sharianna couldnt believe how much their underwater paradise had changed .
do you think the fish are okay ?
she asked , with genuine concern .
yeah , it seems that they could sense the earthquake coming and they all swam out to deeper water , replied dad .
when the reef came into view , dad turned toward the ocean to find the edge of the drop off .
can everyone see me ?
asked dad as he swam out in front .
yes .
when he reached the edge of the cliff , he looked both ways .
where is it ?
queried sharianna .
joseph , you go with mom , that way .
sharianna and i will look in the other direction .
stay at the edge of the cliff , we can use it as a reference so we dont get lost .
sharianna knew it was only a few minutes , but it seemed like a long time as she peered through the murky water that only a little while ago was as clear as crystal .
each moment she expected to see the robot rising like a welcome monolith from the edge of the cliff .
this is the easy way to swim , huh mom ?
joseph said , as they sped effortlessly along the edge of the precipice .
sure is .
sharianna thought it was weird to be able to hear them so perfectly , knowing that they were quite a ways away and going in the opposite direction .
suddenly , she saw a dark mass in front of them .
there it is , she declared .
almost instantly , she realized her mistake .
no , its the lava flow , observed dad , with obvious disap pointment .
how far have you guys gone ?
i dont know , but it seems like a long way , mom replied , trying to disguise her apprehension .
wait there , till we catch up to you , directed dad .
they turned around and dad increased his speed as his apprehension mounted .
suddenly he stopped .
a piece of the reef seemed missing .
he turned around and hovered over the spot .
the whole edge of the drop off was expectedly uneven and broken , but the transition from coral to bare rock was a natural one all across the reef .
here , the coral stopped abruptly .
as he looked closer , he noticed that the coral at the edge of the barren hole was broken .
suddenly , he felt sick as he realized that the rock the robot had been standing on had been right there .
sharianna also saw the broken coral , and the worried look on dads face .
it fell off the edge , didnt it ?
she questioned .
what do you mean , it fell off ?
demanded mom , from her distant position .
i think the rock it was standing on broke away from the cliff during the earthquake , reported dad .
oh no !
came moms agonized cry .
percy !
cried joseph .
im sure hes okay come back toward us and well figure something out , comforted dad reassuringly , but he knew the drop off was hundreds of feet deep .
unless the robot landed on a shelf or otherwise got hung up on the face of the cliff he knew there was no way he was going to be able to reach it .
stay here and wait for mom , he instructed sharianna .
im going to go down to find the robot .
be careful , cautioned mom .
yes , be careful , daddy , added sharianna .
as he descended along the face of the cliff , the water turned from cloudy to dark , as the light from the surface dimmed .
he continued slowly to descend through the darkness in the hopes that the lights on the robot were still on .
he reached out and felt the wall of the cliff .
here and there , he banged into a protrusion jutting out from the face of the cliff .
the first time it knocked the air out of him and he began to panic , feeling like he would suffocate .
when sophia heard his groan she asked him if he was okay , but he didnt respond until he got some air back in his lungs .
she was about to leave the kids and go search for him when he finally responded .
now , he was being more careful , but as he went deeper , the water pressure on his body continued to increase .
the helmet part of the spacesuit seemed to be holding , but the rest of it was stretchy and flexible and didnt seem to resist the pressure of the water .
finally , when the pressure became so great that he could hardly expand his lungs , he began to retreat with great disappointment from the depths .
as he ascended , he suddenly stopped .
a strange tightness in his chest was accompanied by an unfamiliar feeling of panic as he remembered hearing about the bends .
in his minds eye he imagined the nitrogen in his bloodstream suddenly expanding from the change in pressure , as he got closer to the surface and forming small bubbles in his bloodstream and flowing to his heart and brain .
he realized that the result would be severe pain and damage , or death .
he didnt want to alarm his family , so he simply said , ill search around some more , dont worry ill be a little while .
he slowly ascended in a long zigzag pattern along the face of the cliff so that his body could adjust to the changes in pressure .
finally , the darkness began to dissipate .
he sighed with relief but knew that the danger was still menacingly present , so he continued his slow , indirect ascent , all the while searching the cliff for any sign of the robot .
his heart sank as he thought about poor percy , who was trapped in the robot .
where are you now ?
asked mom , who was anxiously waiting on the edge of the precipice .
still searching , he replied .
finally , after what seemed like hours he reached the top of the cliff and peered through the cloudy water to the left and the right but could not see his family .
maybe you should go back to the beach and wait for me there , he suggested , as he swam the last few feet toward the surface to look around and get his bearings .
suddenly , as his head pierced the surface , he heard a loud noise , like a bomb going off .
almost simultaneously , he felt another percussion move through the water .
i dont think that is a good idea , countered sophia , sound ing very stressed .
he looked toward the island , expecting to see the lagoon , but instead looked upon an unfamiliar shore .
a giant cloud of smoke and gas belched forth from the throat of the volcano and billowed its way high into the afternoon sky .
an ominous red glow emanated from the top of the mountain as searing hot magma poured over the rim .
lush , green trees strangely burst into flame as the burning river of death slowly meandered down the slope .
off to his left , thomas noticed another ancient lava flow .
immediately , he realized that it was the same flow that bordered their lagoon he was on the other side of it .
i am on the other side of the ancient lava flow , he tried to say calmly .
swim over to the tip of it , where it goes over the drop off and ill meet you there .
thomas quickly made his way to the end of the breakwater created by the old lava flow .
he was very impressed by the suits capability to propel him through the water so quickly .
he felt like a body surfer who didnt need a wave to surf .
he continued to rack his brains for a way to save percy .
his heart leaped when he saw his family skimming across the surface toward him .
daddy !
exclaimed sharianna with relief , as she wrapped her arms around his neck .
were so glad you are safe .
we were very worried , sighed mom .
did you see any sign of the robot and percy ?
asked joseph .
thomas shook his head sadly .
a tear welled up in josephs eye and rolled down his cheek , quickly followed by another .
sharianna sobbed .
hot ash began to fall around them like large snowflakes .
i think we had better get away from the island , admonished dad .
dad turned toward the open ocean , follow me , he directed , as he sped away from the island .
his mind raced as he tried to figure out what to do next .
he thought of their situation in the middle of the pacific , without any food or water , without any idea where the closest land was .
then he remembered from josephs map that they must be somewhere in the caroline islands .
at least we have the suits , he thought .
when he felt they were safely far enough from the island he stopped .
whats the plan ?
inquired mom .
did you go all the way to the bottom ?
asked joseph .
no , the pressure was too great , replied dad sadly .
maybe we could get an undersea rov ?
joseph proposed , hopefully .
thats a great idea , but it could take weeks , even if we could find this island again , bemoaned dad .
i dont know if percy could last that long , he added softly , as he put his hand on josephs shoulder .
i dont think finding the island will be a problem , simply ask about the one that blew its top , mom reasoned .
hell starve , sharianna sobbed she couldnt bear to think of the dog she loved starving to death all alone at the bottom of the ocean .
oh , robo ship , i wish you were here , she whispered to herself through her tears .
he wont starve , consoled mom .
im sure hell eat the rest of josephs doritos , and i left out some bread and cookies .
it will be okay , princess , well figure out some way to find percy , promised dad .
i think we should go south until we find another island , mom suggested .
joseph spoke up , when i was looking at the map , i noticed that the northern mariana islands belonged to the united states there must be people who speak english .
i think we should go west .
there might even be a research station that has an undersea rov , said sharianna hopefully .
dad looked up at the sun , then toward the pillar of smoke coming from the island .
im sure the island is south , so that must be west , he said , pointing off to the right .
sharianna suddenly grabbed dad by the arm and pointed .
something big is coming toward us under the water !
shouted joseph in a frightened voice .
hurry , that way !
commanded dad , pointing to the west .
and fast !
apprehension gripped joseph as he speculated what could be chasing them .
his mind was called involuntarily to the old shark movies with the great white shark that relentlessly pursued its victims .
as his family sped across the water with thomas taking up the rear , he looked back , expecting to see the distance widening , but discovered that it was actually narrowing .
joseph looked over his shoulder .
their pursuer was now making a large wake and the water was spraying off of its head like the hull of a speedboat as it bore down on them .
chapter twenty salvage operation suddenly , through the water spray , joseph recognized their pursuers round head .
he was instantaneously filled with euphoria .
wait , its the robot !
he exclaimed , incredulously .
as they stopped , the crest of the robots head rose from the water a few feet away .
the water spilled off of it as it rose up into the air until the top of its feet were level with the surface of the water .
the family quickly clambered onto the top of the foot .
it must have heard my wish , rejoiced sharianna .
robo ship , open the airlock , ordered joseph , filled with elation .
percy wagged his tail and barked a happy hello when they opened the door from the airlock to the hallway , completely oblivious of his near death experience .
with dad at the helm , the robot again slid beneath the waves of the pacific .
where to now , navigator ?
dad asked , looking at joseph .
mom interrupted , i think we had better get some food from somewhere .
we left the coconuts and mangos on the beach and most of my shells , interjected sharianna as she pulled several beautiful seashells from her pockets .
but not all of them .
her smile looked a little out of place on her tear streaked face .
and my backpack , added joseph .
my point is , continued mom , even if we ate all the junk food , it would only last a couple of days .
joseph examined the map , what about guam , or saipan ?
the map shows them as american possessions .
thats where we were going before the robot showed up .
is there any fast food there ?
asked sharianna .
i doubt it , answered mom .
besides , even if we hid the robot and went in on foot , i think if we showed up in some small village store to buy food they would ask a lot of questions .
i heard they have american restaurants in japan , proposed sharianna hopefully .
i think they might still be looking for the ufo that flew over tokyo , cautioned dad .
hey , what would they call an unidentified object in the water ?
posed joseph .
what ?
inquired mom .
a ufo .
why is that ?
an unidentified floating object .
was that a joke ?
jabbed sharianna .
dad pulled out his wallet and counted out the small bills .
seventeen dollars .
you kids have any money ?
he asked hopefully .
i have the credit card , offered mom .
i think this qualifies as an emergency .
yeah , i think it does , replied dad .
i think hawaii is the logical choice , concluded mom .
im sure they will take the credit card .
japan is closer , argued joseph .
we dont just need food , countered mom .
what else ?
inquired dad .
mom sniffed the air .
i think a change of clothes would be a good idea .
and some shampoo , added sharianna .
and a razor , laughed mom as she rubbed the stubble on dads chin .
joseph found something even sharper than a razor , didnt you joseph ?
commented dad .
yes , the kitchen knives , he replied , as he pulled the small knife from the sheath he had fashioned from a piece of green bamboo and attached to his belt .
mom continued , on second thought , we can skip the razor , i kind of like it , she pulled on his chin and gave him a kiss .
although the fresh clothes and the soap wouldnt hurt .
hey !
protested dad , feigning injury .
hawaii , here we come !
they proceeded rapidly in a northeasterly direction across the bottom of the east mariana basin .
they zigzagged in a random pattern , all the while heading in an overall easterly course for hawaii .
at , or near , the point of each zig and each zag they came up near enough to the surface to get a reading from the gps .
joseph looked up from the map , hey , its now yesterday , he declared .
what ?
asked sharianna .
we just crossed the international date line .
are we going to go to honolulu ?
asked sharianna .
its the capitol , you know .
no way , asserted dad .
not unless we want to encounter the whole fleet of nuclear subs all at once .
honolulu is on the island of oahu and overlooks pearl harbor , which is one of the largest u.s. navy bases in the pacific .
joseph , what is the next largest city ?
queried mom .
looks like hilo , on the big island of hawaii .
is it on the coast ?
asked dad .
yeah .
it is on the east side of the island .
if we go around and approach from the west , we can probably avoid the submarines , suggested joseph .
especially if we circle around and keep to the bottom it is 17,000 feet deep there .
thanks , navigator , acknowledged dad .
any suggestions on how we get to shore without being seen ?
if the hawaiian islands were created by volcanoes then ill bet they have pretty steep drop offs into the ocean , right ?
asked sharianna .
like the last island .
we could get pretty close while staying deep .
then , while staying close to the drop off we could come up to a safe depth , go out the airlock in our spacesuits and speed in to shore .
if we went early in the morning , just before dawn , we would be hidden and anyone seeing us come up from the beach would think that we had been out for an early morning swim , added mom .
in our street clothes ?
questioned joseph .
okay , an early morning stroll along the beach , corrected mom .
anyway , then we would have a whole day to get the food and other shopping done that we need .
we could even find a nice seafood restaurant in the evening and be back at the robot that night .
mom smiled as she thought of all the great shopping there must be along the beach .
remember , we cant carry that much back with us when we swim back to the robot , asserted dad , in an attempt to preempt the big shopping spree .
i know , i thought if we all had backpacks , we could carry the stuff we need under our spacesuits , like joseph did when we went to the island , suggested mom .
ill only buy what we needunless there is a really great deal .
we had better take something to put the spacesuits in once we get to the beach , concluded dad .
i still have my backpack , suggested sharianna .
okay , well spend the night at the bottom , then well park the ship up on the shelf in the morning , in shallow water , agreed dad .
everybody ready ?
asked dad , before opening the airlock the next morning .
how far is it to the beach ?
asked sharianna .
i dont know , but we cant risk going into any shallower water , replied dad .
lets stick together , and well be fine , instructed mom .
well go straight up to the surface so that we can get a reference from the shore that way well be able to find the robot tonight .
then well go under the surface to the beach .
if we cant find it we could call it to us again , said sharian na .
oh , yeah , i can see the headlines now witnesses saw a giant monster robot rise up from the depths of the ocean , teased joseph .
the sun was barely beginning to illuminate the buildings on the shore as they sped along , a few feet below the surface , toward the beach .
now we really look like tourists , complained sharianna , as she looked at the new clothes that mom had bought .
why do we all have to wear the same goofy hawaiian shirts and shorts ?
because we are in hawaii and we are tourists , replied mom .
and they were on sale , added dad .
we can do some other shopping later , mom whispered in shariannas ear .
dad got a map from the city tourist information shop .
lets take the bus tour out to hawaii volcanoes national park .
no , i think i have seen enough volcanoes for one trip .
thank you , asserted mom .
ill go with you , offered joseph .
make sure we meet back here by seven oclock at the latest , instructed dad .
ill stay with mom , elected sharianna .
that evening they met back at the tourist information shop .
after dinner at the wonderful seafood restaurant that mom and sharianna found during their shopping expedition , they went for a stroll on the boardwalk along the beach .
when they looked out from the boardwalk toward the place where they left the robot , they noticed a flat decked salvage ship with two huge cranes in the distance .
whats going on out there ?
dad asked a man who was manning a kiosk on the boardwalk .
dad tried to keep his voice sounding mildly curious , but inside he was frantic .
some treasure hunter thinks there is an old wreck out there with a lot of gold on it hes been scanning the shelf for weeks .
i wonder if he finally found something ?
i think we had better get out there quick , before they get their cables on the robot , whispered joseph , as they walked down the steps to the beach .
its not even dark yet , groaned sharianna .
and look at all the people someone will see us for sure .
over there , we can put the suits on under the pier , suggest ed dad .
they quickly put on the spacesuits , out of site of all the people playing on the beach , and made their way toward the waters edge , while staying under the pier .
they could see the people on the beach every now and then between the pylons .
as they neared the water , they realized that two boys were playing in the rocks near the waters edge , under the pier .
we should have bought swimsuits , lamented mom .
that way we would blend in as we entered the water .
follow me , instructed dad , as he waded out into the water .
he went behind one of the large pylons and disappeared , followed by sharianna , joseph and mom .
hey , where did they go ?
exclaimed one of the boys , after a few minutes .
as they got near the place where they left the robot they could see it lying on its back on the bottom , right where they left it .
however , they could also see two divers working on getting a cable around the neck they already had a cable around the feet .
the divers seemed completely occupied with their task , so the family quickly jetted toward the robot .
at that moment , another diver appeared who was bringing the end of the cable up from the other side of the robot .
he looked up and saw them as he clipped the hook onto the cable .
they were still about a hundred and fifty feet from the robot .
he quickly motioned to his two companions , who looked with incredulous eyes to see a man and a woman with two teenagers speeding straight through the water in their matching hawaiian shirts and shorts , each wearing a bulging backpack , without any scuba gear .
the first diver began swimming for the surface , while the other two swam in an effort to intercept the family .
robo ship , open the airlock , commanded joseph , as they raced toward the ship .
suddenly , they saw the slack go out of the cables as the robot was hoisted slowly off the ocean floor .
hurry , get into the airlock , ordered dad , as he turned to face the divers who had come to cut off their escape .
the divers suddenly stopped and looked at each other incredulously when dad turned around and faced them with his fists up , as if he were in a boxing match .
dad took the opportunity to drop down into the airlock and push the button to close the door .
as the door closed , the faces of the two bewildered divers appeared above it .
sharianna smiled sweetly and waved goodbye .
weve got to hurry , asserted dad nervously , as he waited impatiently for the water to drain out of the airlock so that he could open the door to the hall .
when the door finally opened they rushed into the control cabin .
above them they could clearly see the hull of the salvage ship .
they could also see the two divers swimming toward the surface .
dad and joseph jumped into the captains chairs and dad began to pull away .
on board the salvage ship the winches groaned and the crane booms bent toward the water .
the barge began to list as the tips of the cranes dipped beneath the waves .
men yelled as they hung onto whatever they could grab .
the cable is breaking !
screamed one of the crane operators , when he heard the pinging sound as each of the strands that made up the huge cable stretched and broke in rapid succession .
suddenly , there were enough strands broken that the rest gave way all at once .
the whole ship swung around in an arc wildly as it pivoted on the remaining cable .
the men continued to cling to their precarious handholds .
wait !
yelled mom , as she saw the ship above suddenly lurch onto its side and then swing around wildly as the cable around the robots neck broke .
dad reversed his direction , creating some slack in the cable .
the barge suddenly slapped back down onto an even keel .
dad tried to grab the cable that was still around the legs of the robot .
let me , offered joseph .
dad flipped the control switch and joseph quickly grabbed the cable with both of the robots hands and pulled it apart as if it were a piece of yarn .
joseph then piloted the robot toward the drop off and de scended down into the depths of the ocean .
the divers witnessed the incredible underwater drama in stunned incredulity as the robot disappeared into the dark depths .
do you think they will report this to the military ?
asked sharianna .
i dont know , but were not waiting to find out , replied joseph , as he reached the ocean floor and headed in a very fast northerly direction across the northeast pacific basin , toward the bering sea .
good piloting .
i think we should still move in a random pattern , cautioned dad .
that was close , sighed mom .
that was exciting !
exclaimed sharianna , as she threw her suit on a chair and took off her backpack .
i think i may have squashed the bread , confessed joseph , as he leaned forward in the captains chair .
ill take over for you while you take off your spacesuit and backpack , suggested sharianna sweetly , as she saw an opportunity to pilot the ship .
joseph realized her designs , but relinquished his seat never theless .
he picked up shariannas suit and backpack and headed for the cargo bay .
sophias heart was still pounding as she followed joseph into the cargo bay .
dad joined them as they were hanging up the spacesuits in the hallway closet .
im real proud of you son i think you can probably handle the robot better than me .
joseph was beaming from this compliment he knew his dad was sincere and it made him feel good .
i guess its from playing computer games .
you know , the controls are almost the same .
they returned to the control cabin and sharianna continued their random zigzag pattern for a few hours , without returning to the surface for a gps reading .
mom yawned , i think we ought to stop for the night .
im looking forward to that shampoo we bought today .
sharianna set the robot on the bottom for the night .
joseph awoke early the next morning and rubbed percy behind the ears .
i think we should get going , he whispered .
joseph made his way into the control room without making any noise and sat down in the captains chair .
what are you doing ?
whispered sharianna quietly from the doorway .
im going up to get a gps reading , he replied softly .
sharianna sat in the other chair .
okay , lets go .
at the bottom , they could only see as far as the lights , but as they rose toward the surface , the ocean changed from pitch black to a kind of twilight that slowly got brighter as they neared the surface .
joseph recorded the gps reading on the map .
they looked up to see a large , long shadow silhouetted against the light above .
another submarine , speculated sharianna fearfully .
chapter twenty one the leviathan joseph looked at the silhouette he noticed that it was slowly undulating .
no , this one has a tail its a blue whale !
and a baby !
exclaimed sharianna .
get a little closer .
upon their approach , the 100 foot leviathan turned its giant head and the calf moved to the other side of its mom .
the whale showed no other signs of distress joseph moved in a little closer .
they could see the long , powerful tail gently sweep through the water as the whale glided effortlessly through its environment .
as they neared the surface , they suddenly saw the huge tail give a powerful thrust as the giant mammal , more than twice as long as the robot , lunged through a school of krill , leaving the baby behind .
they saw the huge lower jaw expand as it engulfed thousands of tiny fish .
wow , mom and dad should see this , declared joseph .
we did , came the reply from the doorway behind them .
the majestic mammal made a couple more passes through the school of krill and then dove back down and swam serenely away with her baby .
what is that noise ?
pondered mom .
they listened intently and heard a sound through the water that definitely sounded mechanical .
is it another submarine ?
asked sharianna .
no , submarines are designed to run silently under water , replied dad .
as they looked , they saw a rusty old hull , with barnacles clinging to its side , through the water above them .
its definitely not a military ship , stated dad .
they never let them get that bad .
its heading in the same direction as the whale , observed mom .
do you think its a whaler ?
i thought blue whales were protected !
asserted sharianna .
they are !
confirmed mom .
match its speed and stay underneath the ship , directed dad .
lets see if we can determine what kind of ship it is .
as they drew close to the ship , they could see a large , sloping ramp cut into the side of the ship extending up onto the deck .
it was streaked with red that was slowly draining into the ocean .
moms heart started to pound as her anger mounted .
a little faster , joseph , she instructed .
as they looked up along the bow of the ship , they saw the huge harpoon loaded and ready to fire , with two men out on the platform .
suddenly , one of the men looked into the water and , motioning to the other , pointed directly at them .
they saw us !
exclaimed joseph .
good , i hope theyre scared , replied mom .
are they going to shoot the mother whale ?
asked sharian na distressfully .
what about the baby ?
theyll take it too , cried mom angrily .
weve got to do something !
she almost shouted .
there they are !
sharianna looked through the water out front and could barely discern the shadow of the two whales returning to the surface .
joseph got an idea he suddenly slowed the robot down .
what are you doing ?
asked sharianna , as the rusty old hull passed over them .
watch , was all that joseph had time to say as he reached out with one of the hands of the robot and caught the ship by the giant propeller .
the ship came to a grinding halt as joseph reached out with the other hand and squashed the blades like a ball of tinfoil .
then , while still holding onto the propeller , he swung the ship around like a top , and pushed it in the opposite direction , while accelerating to a speed at least twice the capability of the whaling ship .
joseph was as angry about the illegal killing of the whales as mom .
he didnt let go of the whaler for a few miles while traveling at a break neck speed .
be careful , dont sink it , cautioned dad .
the men who work on it are probably just trying to feed their families .
its the owners of the ship that should be sunk .
realizing that dad was right , he finally let the ship go and the robot quickly retreated to the depths of the ocean floor .
ill bet that will take a while to fix , exclaimed sharianna exuberantly .
as superstitious as sailors are , they might have a hard time getting enough men to crew it once that story gets around , concluded mom triumphantly .
incredible , declared dad , as joseph brought the hands of the robot up into the light and looked at them .
they were still flawless .
how did you know the ships screw wouldnt tear through the hands of the robot ?
i didnt , replied joseph , his voice trembling slightly .
did you get a gps signal ?
asked dad .
yes , answered joseph .
you take over , sharianna , he flipped the control switch to her seat and , using their most recent gps reading and the compass , plotted their course on the map , through the aleutian islands and into the bearing sea .
i think well have to slow down a little , once we pass the aleutian trench in order to navigate through the islands , observed joseph , as he examined the map .
after they passed over the aleutian trench , sharianna slowed down and looked for any sign that the water was getting shallower , or a cliff , or shelf indicating that they were near land .
finally , she saw what looked like the base of a barren mountain rising up from the sea floor .
this might be one of the islands , postulated joseph , as they rose along the slopes of the mountain .
as they ascended past the twilight layer of the ocean they could see that there was land at the top of the mountain .
which way should we go ?
queried sharianna .
left , directed joseph , as he looked at the map .
if it is the alaskan peninsula and we were to go right , then we would be following the coast toward canada .
left it is , concurred sharianna .
they turned southeast and followed the shoreline for about a half hour slowly , they began to turn northeast as they rounded the tip of the island .
lets go up and have a look around , proposed joseph .
the robots head pierced the surface of the water just enough for them to see that the island was barren and windswept , nearly devoid of plant life .
look at all those seals , marveled mom .
there must be thousands of them .
joseph looked at the gps , then the map .
that must be the bering sea , he concluded , as he pointed north .
as they proceeded along the shallow rocky bottom near the island they saw something that looked strangely out of place .
in the distance , off to the right , they could see something that looked geometric , in the watery world of jagged rocks and boulders .
chapter twenty two the wreck what is that circle thing ?
questioned sharianna , as she steered the robot for a closer look .
its a paddle wheel steam ship !
exclaimed joseph .
what is it doing way up here ?
asked sharianna .
i thought they were only used on the mississippi river .
no , i think they used a similar type for ocean travel for a short time , replied dad .
ill bet they used these ships during the height of the alaskan gold rush .
lets explore it !
said joseph .
oh , to explore a sunken ship !
he added longingly .
that water is probably very cold , warned mom , in an attempt to dissuade joseph from his goal .
the spacesuits protect you from the cold , he replied .
as they approached , they could see a great hole that had been ripped through the wooden hull , right into the cargo hold .
the huge metal smoke stack lay rusting away a short distance from the wreck , lying wedged between two boulders .
part of the bulkhead was missing and they could see in to the huge steam engine with its enormous flywheel and long piston rods still attached to the massive shaft that turned the paddle wheels .
they could tell that it had once been a magnificent ship with its ornate carved railings and teakwood decks .
as they peered through the broken windows , they could see into the bar and dining area .
look , the mirror above the bar isnt even broken !
and some of the bottles and glasses are still intact , observed dad , incredulously .
this was one lavish boat , he said , looking at mom .
the cold water must have helped preserve it otherwise i think it would have disintegrated long ago .
ill bet its not more than seventy five feet from the sur face , estimated dad .
think of all the history , reasoned joseph , realizing that mom was the one he had to convince .
and the artifacts , added sharianna .
and the skeletons , interjected mom .
and the ghostsoooo , she added , in her most mysterious and chilling voice .
i dont see any lifeboats , maybe the passengers and crew all escaped , dad rationalized .
without warning , sophia felt the lure of the adventure begin to grip her , like it did when they first explored the robot .
okay , dad and i will go .
you two stay here and take care of the robot , she teased .
no !
they cried in unison .
mom paused for a moment , looking at her kids as she thought about how brave they had been .
okay , you can come too , but no goofing around !
she ordered , gravely .
sharianna quickly set the robot down a few feet from the wreck .
they were in their spacesuits in record time .
mom went over to the counter and dumped out everything that was still in her backpack and slung it over her shoulder .
artifacts , she said simply .
they entered the wreck through the main doors into the dining hall .
there were windows on both sides and across the front of the room with a view of the side and the front decks all of which were broken , except one , which was etched with the image of the mountain peaks above anchorage , alaska .
several of the round mahogany tables were still bolted to the walnut floor , the others had tipped over on their sides as the bolts that held them slowly rusted away .
immediately to their right was a flight of stairs leading to the upper deck and another flight leading down into the hold .
sharianna looked down into the darkness of the hold and felt a shiver run through her body , even though the spacesuit completely insulated her from the cold water .
she grabbed onto dads arm , lets look over there by the bar .
the mirror behind the bar was beveled and etched with a beautiful pattern all the way around above it , hung a golden plaque .
in large raised letters was the name of the ship the golden alaskan .
the brass trim on the bar and on the stools was tarnished , but still intact , even though the finish on the wood was deteriorated and peeling .
the leather seats on the stools were mostly gone , but the ornate wooden backs bespoke of their original elegance .
sharianna looked under the bar and saw many glasses still not broken .
some of them were etched with the name of the ship .
she put two of them in moms backpack .
above both ends of the bar , still hanging from large brass chains , were two beautiful , ornate brass and red crystal lamps , and an even larger one still hanging from the center of the dining room .
joseph swam over to the antique brass cash register and pulled on the lever to open the drawer , but of course , the mechanisms were all rusted together .
to the right , and behind the bar was a door with a large gold door handle that was hanging by one tarnished brass hinge .
dad swam over to the door and pulled on it .
the brass screws holding the hinge to the jam pulled right out of the deteriorated wood and the door settled slowly to the floor .
dad paused as he entered the room , to let his eyes adjust to the darkness .
i wish we had some waterproof flashlights , he thought to himself .
he could barely make out through the gloomy darkness , a large desk in the middle of the floor .
behind the desk he saw the remains of a large leather office chair .
behind the chair , he could barely discern the outline of a large rectangular box about six feet high and three feet in width .
sharianna was right beside him as he swam over the desk to get a better look at the box .
it was pitted and cankered with rust , but he recognized it as the ships safe from the large , rusted , combination dial set in the front panel .
its a safe , concluded sharianna , when her eyes had become adjusted to the darkness .
do you think there is anything in it ?
she asked with excitement .
dad pulled on the door of the safe but the iron was so thick that it had not yet rusted all the way through .
you found a safe ?
asked joseph , as he swam into the room .
can you open it ?
no , replied dad .
it is pretty thick ironbut maybe we can move it .
he put one hand on the back of the safe and with his other pushed against the wall .
the safe began to tip when , suddenly , his hand went right through the deteriorating wall .
lets work together , suggested joseph , as he tapped on the wall and found a spot that seemed stronger than the rest .
dad and sharianna did the same , and they all pulled together .
to their surprise , the safe tipped and then fell .
as it hit the floor , the deck boards gave way in between two structural members and it fell down into the hold .
i guess these suits do enhance your strength , acknowledged dad .
but they definitely dont make you superman , he added , as he looked through the hole in the floor .
joseph voiced what dad had thought earlier as he peered down into the darkness i wish we had some flashlights .
mom swam into the room with a huge smile on her face , wearing her now bulging backpack and carrying the large chandelier from the center of the dining room .
i always wanted lamps just like these , and these are real antiques .
she almost giggled with delight .
sophia looked down at the dark hole in the floor .
suddenly , an almost tangible gloom seemed to emanate from the hole .
she consciously shook off the unexpected feeling .
hey , what about the lights on the robot ?
you could shine them through the hole in the hull .
then you could see what is down there .
and it might not be as scary , concluded sharianna , as she gazed down into the darkness .
suddenly , she thought she saw some movement .
something moved down there !
she declared .
probably fish , consoled dad .
ive got to make a trip back to the robot , so ill shine the lights for you , proposed mom .
ill go with you , offered sharianna .
joseph made an exaggerated , scary sound .
stop that !
rebuked sharianna .
thats not very nice , scolded mom , who felt a little spooked herself .
while mom and sharianna hauled their newfound treasures to the robot , joseph and dad busied themselves investigating the room .
joseph opened the desk drawers , or rather , he pulled off the drawer fronts and reached into the drawers , since the wood had swelled up with the water and the drawers would no longer slide .
he found an old pistol that was cankered with rust , but the pearl handles were still perfect , and a bunch of old papers and documents .
they looked out the small window of the ships office to see the robot bend down as mom directed the light into the hold .
there is a lot of stuff down there , reported mom .
are you still wearing your spacesuit ?
inquired dad , when he heard her voice .
no , but we can still hear you perfectly , she replied .
they looked through the hole in the floor and saw the safe lying on top of a pile of flattened barrels .
the water was a little murky in the hold , probably from the debris that was kicked up when the safe crashed to the floor .
they dropped through the hole and swam down toward the safe .
joseph noticed that the hold must have been used for transporting both animals and cargo , because there were several partitions that looked like pens , and on the opposite side of the ship there was a large door ajar in the bulkhead about halfway up from the floor , with a ramp extending up to it that looked like it was for loading livestock .
they swam around the hold examining the cargo .
i think they were on their way back from alaska , deduced dad .
how can you tell ?
asked joseph .
because there are no cattle skeletons , only a few horses .
whats the significance of that ?
asked sharianna from her position in the control room of the robot .
she could see josephs and dads shadowy figures swimming around in the murky hold .
on the way up they would probably take cattle to sell to the miners .
on the way back they would only have a few horses that belong to the passengers , explained dad .
joseph pointed to the smashed barrels that the safe had landed on .
pickled herring that comes from up near alaska too , doesnt it ?
i think so , replied dad .
at one end of the hold , joseph saw a large cage with old rusty iron bars .
as he swam closer he could tell , through the murky water , that it was divided by iron bars into two compartments or cells .
suddenly , he swam backwards with a startled shout .
what is it ?
asked dad , as he swam toward joseph .
whats the matter ?
asked mom , anxiously from the robot .
a skeleton , answered joseph , trying to regain his compo sure .
its the brig , explained dad .
looks like they forgot to release the prisoner .
that ones not a man , said joseph , as he pointed through the rust cankered bars of the other cell .
it looks like it is either a polar bear , or a grizzly bear ill bet they were taking it down to the states for a zoo , or for some other kind of exhibition , speculated dad .
how did they get it in there ?
asked joseph .
and how were they going to get it out ?
good question , replied dad .
he gives me the creeps , shuddered joseph , as he looked back at the prisoner , the bones of his arms still extended between the bars .
i hope he deserved it .
lets get the safe and get out of here .
be careful , cautioned mom .
joseph wondered if he and dad would be able to pick up the safe .
ready ?
heave !
grunted dad , as they lifted the safe from the floor .
even with the added strength from their suits they had to rest several times before they got it to the hole in the side of the hull .
mom , put the foot of the robot right here , so that we can step out onto it .
as they carried the safe across the top of the foot , joseph thought he saw , from the corner of his eye , something move within the hold .
finally , they had the safe in the tiny airlock they had to lay the safe on the floor lengthwise and there was still barely enough room .
im beat , lets have some lunch , suggested dad , as he pushed the button to close the airlock .
in the kitchen , they made sandwiches for lunch from the groceries they had purchased in hawaii .
id still like to get the name plate of the ship thats above the mirror , said joseph , as he took another bite from his sandwich .
i want to explore the upper deck , declared sharianna .
she felt a little apprehension at the thought of going back into the spooky ship , but she quickly suppressed the feeling , realizing that if she expressed it , joseph would likely exploit her fear , just for the fun of it .
i think it would be real cool to explore the engine room .
joseph paused , what about you , mom ?
i think ill have a look at that engine room too .
as they exited the airlock , sharianna and dad swam directly to the upper deck .
joseph and mom entered the hold through the hole in the hull .
joseph made his way to the engine room with mom follow ing .
they are pretty scary looking , commented mom , as they swam past the brig with its skeleton prisoners .
a strange shiver made its way through her body , but she shook it off .
look at all those gages , said mom , when they entered the engine room .
it was pretty dark , but a little light from the robot filtered through the murky hold and illuminated the room .
as they looked around the engine room , they could see the huge boiler tank and the big firebox where they burned the coal or wood to make the steam that turned the huge crank shaft that powered the paddle wheels .
sharianna felt a surge of excitement as she swam over the railing of the upper deck and saw the ships bridge , with the ships wheel still intact .
she swam through the large front window , being careful not to snag her suit on the broken glass that was still clinging to the edges of the frame she looked around .
next to the ships wheel was a tall desk , almost like a podium with a sloped top .
attached to the side of the desk was a tarnished brass funnel with a brass tube attached to it .
sharianna swam over to the funnel and called down into it .
jooseph , caaan yooou heeear meee ?
of course i can hear you .
why are you talking so strange ?
oh yeah , i forgot about the radios in the suits .
were in the bridge and there is a communication funnel with a pipe , i think it goes to the engine room .
oh yeah , i see it , joseph grabbed a large rusty old wrench that was still hanging on the wall and tapped the edge of the brass funnel .
did you hear that ?
yes .
on the back wall of the bridge , in a brass frame , was a large map .
the glass covering the map was still unbroken .
it showed all of alaska , the aleutian islands and the west coast of canada and the united states all the way down to san francisco .
i cant believe how well preserved this map is , commented dad .
i wonder how well it would survive in the air if we were to take it home ?
he mused , as he pulled it off the wall .
hey , if you guys are done looking at the engine room , you should come up here were going to explore the rest of the upper deck , suggested sharianna .
okay , were coming , replied mom .
lets go out the loading ramp , then we can swim straight up the outside of the ship , suggested joseph .
sharianna swam out the door of the bridge and looked over the railing .
what she saw made her blood feel chill .
she opened her mouth , but her larynx seemed stuck .
three sleek gray torpedo like forms swam in the water below one was at least twelve feet long .
the largest seemed to slide effortlessly through the water , when suddenly , it disappeared through the large loading door , into the hold .
look out !
her voice had been stuck for only a fraction of a moment .
sharks !
the two smaller sharks seemed to hear her scream as they fluidly changed direction and efficiently swam up toward her .
sharianna felt very exposed , clinging to the railing .
joseph looked toward the loading door and saw the massive creature as it silently glided into the hold and turned to look at them .
its a great white !
he exclaimed .
quick !
in the cage !
ordered mom , surprisingly cool , as she grabbed the bars and pulled on the door .
it did not move .
she looked down at the lock , then looked at the perfect killing machine that was gracefully making its way toward them .
joseph struck the lock with the large wrench that he still had in his hand with all the force that both he and the suit could muster .
mom grabbed the only weapon within reach and turned to face the fearsome predator .
her weapon seemed severely puny as she held it up to face the approaching menace .
the rust weakened mechanism inside the lock finally gave way under the immense blows delivered by joseph and the lock opened up .
joseph pulled on the door with all his strength and the huge rusty hinges capitulated .
mom threw the prisoners arm bone in the direction of the approaching danger and it floated harmlessly to the floor .
they darted into the cage behind the door and tried to pull it shut but the shark was already there .
its eyelids rolled back as its lips seemed to recede and huge jaws with innumerable teeth protruded , expecting to tear away the flesh of its victims .
somehow , remembering that sharks have a tender nose , joseph pulled on the door with his left hand and swung the wrench as hard as he could at the carnivores nose with his right hand .
instead of impacting his intended target , the wrench struck the upper gums and large triangular teeth of the upper jaw , breaking several of them away .
joseph released his grip as the jaws slammed together , clamping the wrench in its grasp .
the shark , realizing that it had not grasped onto soft warm food , quickly darted away and they slammed the door shut .
shariannas heart leaped when she felt something grab her by the ankle and pull her away from the railing .
she looked back to see her dad pulling her toward a door behind the bridge .
hurry , get into that hallway !
admonished dad fervently .
as they closed the door behind them , they saw , through the broken window in the door , the two smaller sharks rise up and swim over the railing toward them .
one of them put his nose near the broken window and nudged the door , as if testing it .
the other shark seemed to swim away .
sharianna looked down the hallway .
there were several doors along the hall that led to the passenger cabins , some of which were closed , while others were open .
the door at the end of the hallway opened up onto the opposite side of the ship .
she could see the railing through the open door at the far end of the hall .
dad continued to hold the door as his mind raced , trying to think of a solution .
suddenly , he felt sharianna grab his arm in a viselike grip .
he turned his head toward her and saw the other shark entering the far end of the hall .
sharianna quickly opened the closest cabin door and pulled her dad inside .
thomas felt a sense of surprised relief as he slid the brass dead bolt latch into place .
a huge shark went into the hold , sharianna declared as she tried to catch her breath .
sophia ?
joseph ?
are you okay ?
asked dad anxiously .
yes , were in the brig , but there is a huge great white shark swimming around the hold , waiting for us .
dad looked toward the small window and saw a shadow as one of the sharks swam by .
there are two sharks up here , but we are safe in one of the cabins .
dad looked around the room , searching in vain for something to use as a weapon .
they will probably go away when they realize that there is no food for them here , reasoned dad hopefully .
it seemed like a long time had passed , but the sharks contin ued to linger about the ship .
soon they were joined by three more .
it seemed that they knew there was prey , and it would have to come out eventually .
are the other two sharks still up there ?
inquired mom .
yes , replied dad .
it looks like they have been joined by a few more .
how about the big one ?
queried dad .
yep , hes still here , answered joseph .
i thought great whites were supposed to be solitary creatures , he added .
i guess not always .
sharianna looked out the window toward the robot .
she couldnt see any sharks .
she flipped her wrist back and pushed the button .
barely squeezing through the window she shot toward the robot .
sharianna !
dad cried , as he rushed to the window .
it was too small for him to follow .
ill get the robot , sharianna called out .
dad rushed to the door and quickly drew back the bolt .
suddenly , the nose of a shark pushed through the opening .
dad hit the nose with his fist and it withdrew .
he slammed the door and refastened the bolt and raced back to the window .
sharianna was more than half way to the robot with three sharks close on her tail .
faster , sharianna !
he cried , frantic for her safety .
robo ship !
open the airlock !
ordered sharianna .
dad began kicking at the windowsill in an effort to enlarge the opening .
suddenly , another shark descended from above and made an attempt to feast on his foot .
whats going on up there ?
demanded mom .
sharianna dared not look back .
she was going full speed .
realizing that she would slam into the back wall of the airlock , she pulled back on the button .
reaching around the edge of the doorway , she pushed the button to close the door .
finally , she looked back to see the lead shark only feet away .
as the door began to close , it turned with all the grace of a figure skater and swam back toward the ship .
im in the airlock , she announced , as she impatiently waited for the water to drain out of the little room .
as she leaped into the captains chair she reached toward the sharks with the arms of the robot .
the most fearsome predators of the ocean scattered like frightened minnows in a pond .
the giant great white made a beeline for the hole in the other end of the hold and followed the example of his companions .
dad opened the door of the cabin and , seeing no sharks , swam toward the robot .
he waved at the robot , knowing that sharianna could see him .
youre so brave , honey .
he went into the bridge and emerged with the map in the brass frame .
joseph picked up the three huge shark teeth that had fallen to the floor and pushed open the door of the cage .
as mom and joseph swam through the doorway of the loading ramp toward the airlock , joseph stopped .
im going to grab the nameplate .
chapter twenty three orca !
mom waited in the airlock until dad and joseph entered with their treasures .
she put her arms around the two men .
were all safe .
yep , sharianna replied proudly from the control cabin .
dad and mom took the captains chairs and they headed north across the bering sea .
joseph and sharianna sat in the lower observation area .
it looks like it gets a lot shallower as you approach the bering straight , reported sharianna , as she looked at the water depths shown on the map .
it was a welcome change to be traveling through the upper layer of the ocean that was lit by the suns rays , rather than the pitch black depths along the deep ocean floor .
it was amazing how much sea life there was in the northern oceans .
salmon , steelhead , herring , and many other fish flourished in the cool water .
it is true that they were not as colorful as the tropical fish around their island paradise , but they seemed to be as plentiful .
as they traveled through the bering straight , they began to see more marine mammals like seals , and even walruses .
i think we should continue north for a while , because it looks from the map that the water is a little shallow along the northern coast of alaska , and we wouldnt want to risk detection , admonished joseph , as they left the bering straight behind and entered the frigid waters of the arctic ocean .
look , over there , the water looks cloudy , observed mom .
dad slowed down to take a look .
its a school of small fish .
there must be millions of them !
exclaimed sharianna .
they are being herded .
seven black and white whales were circling the huge school of fish , while expelling streams of bubbles , condensing the swirling mass of fish tighter and tighter .
dad stopped the robot in order to watch what the killer whales were doing .
as the whales swam around and under the fish they condensed them into a tight , almost solid mass , right up against the surface .
then , five whales would stay in the herding pattern , while two dashed into the swarming mass of fish with their mouths wide open , shooting straight to the surface , and jumping clear out of the water .
they continued this taking turns herding and feeding , until the school of fish was decimated and the orcas had their fill .
hey , they are coming toward us .
sharianna felt a surge of excitement as the huge , graceful mammals glided through the clear arctic water .
sharianna remembered their california trip when they went to sea world in san diego .
she loved to see the killer whales perform and especially liked to see them through the glass wall of their tank as they swam underwater .
while they were feeding , the orcas seemed to ignore the robot , even though they were now somewhat close .
now that they were done feeding , they seemed to be curious .
the whales swam around the robot , nudging it now and then with their noses .
they didnt seem to be the least bit scared .
dad began to slowly move away in a northerly direction and the whales followed , swimming alongside the robot , as if they had found a new friend .
this is incredible , marveled sharianna , its like being at sea world , except that these are wild whales , and they are just as playful !
talk about whale watching , ill bet you never see anything like this from a boat !
did you know that killer whales really arent whales ?
asked joseph .
then what are they ?
demanded sharianna skeptically .
they are in the dolphin family .
dad slowly increased the speed of the robot and the orcas matched its speed for a while then finally , they had enough fun and dropped out of the race .
i think we ought to continue north for a while , suggested dad .
i think i would feel safer traveling out in deep water .
did you know that my great uncle rex was the only man from utah that was on the nautilus , the first nuclear powered submarine to go to the north pole , under the polar ice cap ?
bragged mom .
she paused for a moment .
funny , he never talked about it much .
joseph , how far are we from the north pole ?
joseph looked at the gps .
186.42 degrees west longitude and 74.11 degrees north .
we could be there in less than two hours .
were so close mom looked at dad with raised eye brows and a questioning look .
i guess a small detour shouldnt hurt , conceded dad .
as they made their way north , dad continued to follow the random zigzag pattern , rising only long enough to take the gps readings .
they were now under the permanent pack ice that covers the extreme northern tip of the planet .
we must be getting pretty close , judging from the last gps reading and the heading we took since then , said joseph .
lets rise near the surface and see how close we are .
the lights from the robot were a small prick of light in the dark depths of the arctic ocean .
what is that ?
asked sharianna .
what ?
replied joseph , peering into the darkness .
over there to the left .
i saw something black .
everything is black , replied joseph , how could you see something that is black ?
it was sort of shiny black and it looked geometric .
there it is !
exclaimed mom , as the object came into the view of the ships lights .
oh , my goodness , it cant becan it ?
its another obelisk !
confirmed dad .
it looks like it is made of the same material as the one on the moon , observed joseph .
what in the world is it doing submerged under the ice at the north pole ?
puzzled mom .
i still want to know who built them , wondered dad thoughtfully .
why did they put it at the north pole ?
inquired joseph .
i wonder if it is exactly at the north pole , said dad .
lets go up a little and see if we can get a gps reading .
it is exactly at the north pole all right , joseph announced , as he looked at the gps .
lets find its base , directed mom , and see if it has the same writing on it as the one on the moon .
good idea , agreed dad , as he descended to the bottom .
the lights of the robot shone on the glistening surface .
look , there are no crustaceans , barnacles or other sea life attached to the surface , observed joseph .
what does it mean ?
its either brand new , or it is so smooth that nothing can get a grip on its surface , concluded dad .
as they circled the base of the obelisk , it became apparent that it truly was much larger than the one on the moon .
it must be four or five times as big as the other one , commented dad , in absolute awe .
there is writing on it !
exclaimed mom .
sharianna , show me the pictures of the other obelisk .
sharianna scanned through the dozens of pictures that she had taken and found those of the obelisk and handed the camera to mom .
its the same , she declared breathlessly .
pangea !
mom suddenly exclaimed excitedly , as she examined a round symbol that looked like a world with a single continent and a slender triangle extending from the top .
whats pangea ?
questioned sharianna .
joseph remembered watching a pbs program about continental drift and plate tectonics he showed her the map of the world .
look , if you fit north and south america to africa and europe , pull in australia and antarctica , you get one great big super continent pangea .
it sure does look the same , concurred dad contemplative ly , as he looked from the map back to the symbol on the obelisk .
its a depiction of earth !
asserted mom .
why didnt i see that when we were on the moon ?
she asked herself .
except that it is earth millions of years ago , amended dad .
i wish we knew what the rest of these symbols mean , pondered mom .
wait a minute , gasped joseph .
look , over there , the last symbol .
shine the light over there , dad .
that one wasnt on the moons obelisk .
its the continents as they are today !
exclaimed sharianna .
sophia was bursting with unanswered questions were the obelisks built during the age of dinosaurs , or more recently ?
who built them ?
why did they come ?
why did they leave ?
mom felt compelled to investigate .
she flipped the control switch to her side and reached out with the robot and gently ran the finger of the robot around the edge of the square spiral .
i dont know if you should began dad .
mom then touched the center .
why did you do that ?
asked dad .
i dont know , she replied .
oh , oh , moaned joseph , as the row of symbols began to disappear .
they expected the obelisk to open up like the one on the moon .
they were surprised when it began to slowly rise from the floor of the ocean .
the silt on the ocean floor around the base of the obelisk was sucked up as the obelisk accelerated , causing the ocean to be murky , instead of clear .
oh , no !
exclaimed sharianna , as they sat in stunned silence .
lets follow it !
cried joseph .
mom piloted the robot , following the wake left by the obelisk , but it was already out of sight .
suddenly , they heard a sharp cracking sound travel through the water as the point of the obelisk penetrated the thick layer of ice covering the ocean , followed by a powerful percussion reverberating through the sea .
that last noise sounded like an explosion , said sophia nervously , as she peered into the darkness above the robot .
without warning , she saw a long cylindrical object in the darkness above .
a sub !
exclaimed joseph incredulously .
how did they find us clear up here ?
they veered off to the left , in an effort to avoid the subma rine .
oh oh , groaned sharianna , as she saw another cylindrical shape emerge from the semi darkness directly in their path , heading in their direction quite rapidly .
dont worry , i think we can evade them , declared mom , as she turned the robot with the intention of diving off into the depths .
suddenly , off to the left , a third submarine emerged from the shadows below , also making a beeline for the robot .
mom turned the robot again , searching for an avenue of escape , when a fourth sub appeared and effectively cut off their flight .
the first three subs were closing fast when the fourth one abruptly fired an extremely fast torpedo directly at the robot .
in a split second mom made her decision and looked up at the solid ice above .
the light from the sun barely penetrated into the water below the permanent ice cap that floated on the arctic ocean above the north pole .
it looks pretty solid , cautioned dad , as the robot shot toward the barrier of ice .
as they got closer , he amended his first assessment of the ice .
no , i think its fractured from where the obelisk went through not too far from here .
the robot hit the ice with such an immense impact that the primordial ice shattered and huge chunks went flying into the air .
as the robot burst through the thick ice , it was followed by a huge vortex of water that was drawn high into the air , followed by an enormous explosion that enlarged the hole in the ice even more , as the torpedo detonated .
they looked up in the sky , but could see no sign of the obelisk .
no telling which direction it went , declared dad , we might as well continue home .
mom brought the robot back down so close to the surface , that the wind created a mini snowstorm as they sped across the frozen north .
realizing that the subs would be linked to the tracking satellites , they decided not to travel too far on the surface before coming to a stop over the ice .
that was close , sighed mom , her heart still pounding .
what now ?
she asked .
i think we are safer way down deep , where the subs cant go , and the satellites cant track , dad replied .
mom flipped the switch back to dad .
you take over .
are we going to crash through the ice again ?
asked shari anna .
suddenly , joseph got an idea .
what about the laser you could cut a hole in the ice and we could drop down through .
great idea , acknowledged dad , as he activated the laser and cut a circle through the ice a little bigger than the widest point of the robot .
then , by landing the robot on one edge of the circle of ice , it tipped down as the robot slid through , like opening and closing a door .
ill bet they wont even be able to see where we came through the ice , said joseph as he looked up and saw the huge disc of ice rotate back into place .
dad continued to descend until they reached the bottom .
how in the world did they know we were there ?
asked sharianna .
they must have somehow been able to track our every movement , theorized joseph .
i dont think so , replied mom , as her deductive abilities kicked into gear .
otherwise , i think they could have easily caught up to us in hawaii we were there a whole day , and im sure there were submarines at pearl harbor that could have intercepted us , if they had known where we were .
ill bet uncle rex saw the obelisk when the nautilus first went to the north pole .
maybe thats why he didnt talk about it very much joseph interrupted , and that is why the submarines were waiting for us at the north pole they knew the obelisk was there , and the one on the moonill bet they assumed that we are the aliens who put them there !
and they assumed that when we came back we would return to the obelisk !
maybe we are !
declared sharianna .
everyone looked at sharianna incredulously .
well , maybe the same aliens who built the robot also built the obelisks ?
maybe .
but the question still remains what happened to them and where are they now ?
moms analysis continued as she looked at the picture of the writing on the obelisk .
i sure wish i knew what this said .
the material that both the robot and the obelisks are made of is hard , but the similarities end there the obelisks are pure black , while the robots appearance depends on how close you are to it and seems to encompass many colors .
joseph continued the comparison , the obelisks are geomet ric with sharp angles , while the robot doesnt have any sharp angles at all .
and none of the symbols inside the robot look like the symbols on the obelisk .
he said , as he waved his hand over the symbols on the console for added emphasis .
and these chairs are made for people our size , while the steps inside the obelisk were obviously designed for creatures much taller .
he smiled with this last gesture , feeling like he had irrevocably disproved shariannas theory .
your argument seems convincing agreed dad .
thats not proof , argued sharianna .
dad continued i was about to say , i think i will reserve my opinion until we have further information .
well , a few days ago , i wouldnt have believed that anything that has happened to us in the past few days could ever happen , so im fine with a little mysteryfor now , stated mom .
do you think that second loud noise was a torpedo fired at the obelisk ?
asked sharianna .
do you think nasa tracked the obelisk into space ?
asked joseph .
i dont think they could miss something as tall as a moun tain shooting up from the north pole , commented dad .
i wonder if its propulsion is the same as the robot , pon dered joseph .
we dont even know how the robot works , mom reminded him .
to answer shariannas question i think they did fire on the obelisk , like they fired on us , responded dad .
do you think there are aliens inside the obelisk ?
asked sharianna .
maybe we should try to find it .
mom quickly responded no way !
we have no idea where it went or what technology or weapons it might havewere going home .
why did the submarines try to destroy us ?
asked sharian na .
i couldnt really tell for sure , but the fourth submarine seemed different than the first three .
i suspect that the first three were american , and the fourth one might have been russian , theorized dad .
you wouldnt want to let your enemies get their hands on alien technology , would you ?
reasoned joseph .
but i thought the cold war was over , stated sharianna .
yeah , but were still not best friends , counseled mom .
they quickly made their way across the bottom of the arctic ocean , following a course southward , directly toward heiberg island in the extreme northern territories of canada .
we are about to pass the magnetic north pole , commented dad , as he looked at the map .
i didnt know there were two north poles , said joseph .
yeah , the magnetic north pole is a few hundred miles from the geographic north pole , said dad .
it has even moved during the history of the earth , he added .
in fact , at least once , the poles actually reversed their polarity .
why would it move ?
inquired joseph .
i think the scientists believe it is because the earths magnetic field is generated by the movement of the earths liquid iron core .
changes in its flow , due to the slow cooling of the earth over millions of years , affects the magnetic field .
the movement of the continents across the globe may even have an effect .
the earths magnetic field is what protects us from the suns solar wind .
without it , the atmosphere would be stripped away and life could not exist .
dad loved to throw out little tidbits of scientific information .
i thought there was no wind in space , because there is no air , challenged sharianna .
thats true , but solar wind refers to small particles and radiation thrown out by the sun .
joseph continued dads lecture .
thats what probably happened to mars it lost its magnetic field , and then its atmosphere , and consequently , its life .
joseph had watched the same program as dad .
they stayed under water and snaked their way among the islands , through the gulf of boothia and into hudson bay .
joseph was looking at the map .
hudson bay should be called a sea , because its bigger than the black sea and its even wider across than the mediterranean sea .
hey , there is a big river that leads up to reindeer lake , in saskatchewan , said joseph .
i think that is as close to home as we can get while staying under water .
dad acknowledged josephs suggestion .
okay , well go up the river and wait for nightfall in the lake .
well have to go overland once we leave the lake .
i think from here on out we should only travel at night , and below the sound barrier to try to avoid detection .
upon leaving reindeer lake that evening , they flew low to the ground , making sure not to travel faster than the speed of sound across saskatchewan and into alberta , where they foune a railway that led south .
what if we followed the railroad really low and went about the same speed as a train ?
proposed mom .
yeah , that way , even if we were detected , they would probably think it was a train , added joseph .
great idea , complimented dad .
the moon was still almost full they could see the moonlight reflecting off the top of the rails where the wheels of the train had made the metal shiny .
it wasnt very long before they caught up with a freight train headed south .
they followed it so close that it appeared as if they were part of the train .
im glad that trains dont have cabooses with brakemen anymore , commented dad , as he followed the blinking red light at the back of the train until close to dawn .
sharianna , joseph and percy fell asleep on the huge beanbag on the lower observation level of the control cabin .
chapter twenty four run !
as the train climbed over a mountain pass , the moon light revealed a large lake , lying serenely off in the distance a few miles from the track .
thats a fairly large lake , whispered dad .
we could hide at the bottom for the day ill bet we could be home sometime tomorrow night .
the robot silently veered from the tracks and glided over the forest to the lake and slipped unnoticed beneath the water .
great breakfast , mom , complemented joseph .
are we just going to sit here all day ?
complained sharian na .
dont you think we have had enough adventure for one week ?
queried mom .
maybe we should just rest for the day .
we might as well go for a swim and a hike , suggested joseph .
well , you guys got some sleep last night , but mom and i have only had a couple of hours .
id like a nice quiet nap .
well be careful sharianna trained her magical blue eyes on dad .
okay , but take percy with you , he admonished them .
do you think he will be okay swimming in the space suit ?
questioned joseph .
i think hell be alright if you both hold onto him until you get to the surface .
he did fine on the moon , replied dad .
he deserves to get out and run hes been cooped up inside for days .
at least there wont be any sharks , commented joseph .
percy seemed anxious to get out and run around .
he even cooperated quite well when they put the spacesuit on him .
he was a little apprehensive when the water began to fill the airlock , but joseph and sharianna held onto him and talked to him reassuringly .
when the airlock opened up , they could see surprisingly far through the clear glacial waters of the lake .
they swam with percy up to the surface and looked around .
percy struck out for the nearest shore the moment they reached the surface .
they could see the entire shoreline of the lake .
it was bordered on one side by a mountain with jagged cliffs that rose directly up from the surface of the water .
on the other side of the lake , the ground sloped up gently with a mixed conifer forest of spruce , pine and fir with a few stands of deciduous maples and quaking aspen that came nearly to the waters edge , with small clearings of meadow grass visible here and there .
from the north , a small river flowed into the lake , creating a shallow , marshy area with tall grasses and reeds , as it deposited sediments carried down from the mountains .
on shore , they removed percys space suit and put their own on a large , rounded boulder .
joseph stood on the boulder and surveyed the scene .
the air was crisp and clear .
he took a deep breath and exhaled slowly , enjoying the feeling of such incredibly clean air , and the fragrances from the pine trees and wild flowers that surrounded him .
the robot was completely hidden beneath the water , alt hough joseph thought he could see a faint dark spot where he thought it would be .
sharianna gazed at the cliffs across the lake .
there were several small , off white patches set against the darker stone .
one of the white patches moved .
look , joseph , over on the cliff .
that white spot is moving .
mountain sheep , joseph stated , almost casually .
i saw a bunch of them when camping with the scouts in the uintah mountains .
he suddenly pointed at the head of the lake , look there !
moose !
in the shallow marshy part of the lake they saw two bull moose , knee deep in the lake .
as they raised their heads , water plants hung from their huge antlers .
do you have your camera ?
asked joseph .
of course , sharianna replied , matter of factly as she reached into her pocket to retrieve it .
she zoomed in on the mountain sheep as much as her small camera would allow , but they still looked like indiscernible white splotches on the cliffs .
here , let me take one of the moose , requested joseph , impatiently .
sharianna quickly snapped her own picture of the moose , and then handed the camera to joseph .
where do you think you are going ?
asked sharianna , as joseph began to make his way stealthily toward the feeding moose .
im getting closer , to get a better picture the zoom on this camera is not powerful enough .
dont you remember yellowstone ?
she called after him accusingly .
joseph felt a pang of old humiliation last year , on a family trip to yellowstone national park , joseph had recentlhy gotten a cheap little camera and aspired to get some award winning photographs of a huge bull elk as he protected his herd from the other bulls .
joseph had crept increasingly closer to the magnificent bull , which was preoccupied with chasing away the younger competition .
the master of the herd suddenly spotted him and charged with his formidable antlers lowered .
providentially for joseph , when the huge bull was only a few yards away , he suddenly stopped , turned , and chased after another , younger bull who was trying to steel some of his herd .
joseph remembered the embarrassment he felt as the other onlookers told him how stupid he was , and the scolding he got from his frightened mother .
he wasnt going to repeat his mistake .
but i got a great picture !
he retorted , as he tried to play down his previous foolishness .
sharianna followed him along the edge of the lake , staying within the cover of the trees , so as not to spook the feeding moose .
she knelt down and grabbed percys collar and rubbed his ears .
now , you have to keep quiet , she admonished , looking into his eyes .
she kept hold of his collar .
as they neared the moose , they came to a meadow that extended from the trees at the bottom of a hill to the marsh grasses at the edge of the lake where the moose were still feeding .
a small stream meandered its way through the middle of the meadow .
purple and yellow flowers dotted the green grass .
the scene was so peaceful and serene that joseph felt comfortable stepping into the clearing .
he raised the camera as he did so , the largest of the bulls raised his head and looked directly at joseph , sniffing the air .
josephs heart leaped and he froze in his tracks .
the huge animal was probably only about a hundred and fifty feet away .
sharianna stepped behind the trunk of a large pine tree and watched , her heart pounding .
joseph snapped the picture , but otherwise remained motion less .
he didnt know if it was true or not but he thought he re membered hearing that moose had poor eyesight .
he hoped it was true .
the bull lowered his head and continued to feast on the lush water plants .
see , no problem .
he turned to look at sharianna as a mother moose with two babies enter the meadow only a few yards away .
she stopped and sniffed the air .
she lowered her head and turned toward joseph .
suddenly , she leaped forward into a full charge , her sharp front hooves flailing formidably , intending to stomp to death any threat to her babies .
joseph sprinted for the trees that , luckily , were only a few steps away .
percy broke free from shariannas grip and ran toward the charging mother .
run !
yelled joseph .
percy !
come back !
she shouted .
avoiding the dancing hooves , percy nipped at the mooses nose , ran a circle around her , and then darted for the trees .
they ran for fifty yards , until they realized that the moose hadnt even entered the forest .
joseph sat down on a fallen tree while sharianna bent over with her hands on her knees to catch her breath .
you crazy dog , she softly scolded , as she knelt down to give percy a big hug and rub his ears .
too bad we didnt have a stop watch ill bet we set a new fifty yard dash record , gasped joseph , in between breaths .
yeah , and you dont have to dodge trees and leap boulders on the track at school .
and its not uphill either , joseph huffed with a smile , as he handed the camera back to sharianna .
i got a great picture !
lets see sharianna pushed a button and looked at the screen on her camera .
i guess you did .
a tree squirrel began chirping a warning to its friends in a nearby tree .
a small stream flowed close by and they could see the water and hear its soothing sound as it tumbled over the rocks toward the meadow that they had so hastily retreated from .
joseph bent over to tie his shoe , when he noticed some red fruit growing on some low lying plants .
look , wild strawber ries .
dont eat them , they might be poisonous .
she was too late , joseph had already plopped them into his mouth .
mmm , they are small , but sweet .
dont you know that strawberries are indigenous to america ?
there arent any poisonous varieties .
joseph got up from his log and started looking for more .
sharianna joined him for the delicious harvest .
their strawberry picking led them up the hill .
i think it would take all day to get enough for a meal at this rate , complained joseph , as he straightened up to stretch his back .
through the trees , a little further up the hill , right at the base of a cliff he saw a very old log cabin .
hey , look at that .
cool , lets take a look .
the roof was in severe disrepair , but was mostly intact with only a few cracks here and there between the thick , hand split , cedar shingles .
there was no glass in the single , small window and the door was lying on the ground , its old leather hinges fallen apart long ago .
they peered through the small doorway the interior was lit by the window and door with some shafts of light streaming through the cracks between the logs where the mud chinking had fallen out .
sharianna stepped into the interior and looked around , quickly followed by joseph .
the floor had been simply hard packed dirt the grasses and other vegetation had encroached into the cabin wherever enough light and water would allow their growth .
below the window , against the wall was a narrow rough hewn table .
on the table was a tin washbasin accompanied by a pie tin , a tin cup , a rusty old bowie knife with a horn handle and a large spoon .
in front of the table was a section of log that served as a stool .
on the opposite wall rested a rusty old rifle on two wooden pegs driven into a crack between the logs .
two more pegs , directly below , held a double edged axe .
the rest of the wall was covered with an assortment of old jaw traps ranging in size from one a trapper might use to catch a bear , or a cougar , to one small enough for a squirrel or a muskrat .
it must be an old trappers cabin , deduced joseph .
the cliff face actually served as the back wall of the cabin .
in the middle of the back wall stood a rustic hand hewn cabinet with several shelves , holding two antique oil lamps and a few tins of lamp oil , along with some deteriorated blankets and clothing .
the cabinet seemed to be hung on the wall with the bottom only an inch or two from the dirt floor and reached to a height of about seven feet .
to the right of the cabinet , in the corner , was a small stone fireplace , its chimney extending up above the roof .
it had a single large flat stone for a hearth .
a black kettle lay in the old ashes where it had fallen when its supporting stick had long ago broken .
along the wall , near the fireplace were the remnants of a narrow makeshift bed .
joseph picked the old rifle from its resting place on the wall and examined its mechanism .
sharianna stepped across the small room bending down , she looked into the small fireplace .
suddenly , she heard a noise from inside the chimney .
she jumped to one side and accidentally banged into the cabinet on the back wall it swung away from the wall , like a door , revealing an opening in the face of the cliff behind it .
the cause of the noise burst from the fireplace and ran across the floor , onto the table , and leaped out the window .
percy , who had been at shariannas side , streaked after it , leaping from the floor to the table and then out the window .
joseph burst into laughter as he stepped to the table and set the rifle down on it .
its only a squirrel , he teased , as he stood watching percy tree the squirrel in a nearby pine tree .
sharianna returned her view to the opened cabinet she could see a short distance into the passageway behind the cabinet .
she took a couple of steps into the cave to get a better view , when the cabinet suddenly swung closed behind her .
an involuntarily cry escaped her lips as she stopped in the darkness and turned back toward the door .
chapter twenty five el dorado !
joseph turned toward sharianna when he heard her scream , but she was gone .
sharianna he called , apprehensively .
she couldnt have gone out the doorway , i would have seen her , he thought .
he heard a muffled voice here i am , behind the cabinet .
at the same time , he saw the cabinet begin to move .
he grabbed onto it and helped swing it open .
the cabinet was easy to open but it was hung in such a way that when it was released , its own weight swung it back into place against the wall .
the hinges must have been sticky when i first opened it , deduced sharianna , as she swung the cabinet back and forth , trying to figure out why it stayed open and then closed by itself .
it took a few seconds for gravity to overcome the sticky hinges and make it close .
or maybe it was a ghost , teased joseph , as he rolled the stump over and propped the cabinet in the open position .
like there were ghosts on the wrecked steam ship ?
she retorted calmly .
sharianna felt the same shiver she had felt on the ship , but she kept her feelings to herself .
the last thing she wanted was for joseph to think he could scare her .
joseph went a few steps into the cave .
it looks like a natural cave like a crack in the mountain .
the cave tapered from about three feet at the bottom to a thin crack in the ceiling .
the light from the doorway penetrated the blackness only a few yards .
i wish we had some flashlights , he commented .
or the piece of railing from the moon , said sharianna .
hey , what about the old lanterns ?
ill bet those old things dont even work .
besides , we dont have any matches .
i saw some in the cabinet , sharianna replied , as she stepped around the end of the cabinet and picked a box of old wooden stick matches off the shelf .
theres no way began joseph .
sharianna struck a match on the side of the box and a small trail of smoke rose from the match .
you were saying ?
he continued his thought no way those are still good .
she struck another match on the box and a small flame appeared momentarily but flickered out before it could ignite .
try two together , suggested joseph , as he found a lantern that still had oil in it and removed the glass top .
sharianna did so , and the two matches flamed together .
she touched the flame to the wick of the lantern and it sputtered and flared brightly , as joseph replaced the glass top .
she put the box of matches back on the shelf .
the other lantern was empty , so joseph popped a small hole in the top of a can of lamp oil , using the tip of the old bowie knife , and filled the other lantern .
they used the flame from the first lantern to light the other .
percy returned from terrorizing the squirrel and sniffed the air at the entrance to the cave .
he whined as his two friends entered the darkness of the world underground , armed only with their puny , temperamental , fragile , antique sources of light .
sharianna thought about the mine they had escaped from on the moon .
i dont think i want to do any more cave exploring .
at least we know there are no moon monsters in this cave , replied joseph .
lets go in a little , we ought to at least see if there is anything interesting .
i guess youre right , there cant be anything as dangerous as those creatures on the moon .
come on boy , arent you coming ?
called sharianna , as she motioned for percy to follow them .
why do you think the entrance to this cave was hidden ?
she asked .
whoever built the cabin must have been trying to hide something in this cave , joseph replied .
i know , but what ?
she insisted .
and what happened to him ?
it looks like he left all his stuff in the cabin .
maybe he got eaten by a mountain lion , or a grizzly bear ?
the cave began to get narrower and shorter , until finally , percy was the only one who could continue comfortably .
i dont want to go any further , complained sharianna , whose knees were getting sore from crawling on all fours .
carrying the lamp made crawling even more tedious .
as the ceiling got lower , joseph began to reach out ahead and place the lantern down , and then he could use both hands to crawl with , instead of holding the lamp with one and hobbling along with the other .
there must be something valuable in here for the trapper to conceal the entrance , joseph encouraged .
what if he used it to hide his furs , or his food ?
it is pretty cool in here , proposed sharianna .
this thought hadnt occurred to joseph he had assumed that the trapper must have found something worth concealing in this cavetreasure , perhaps .
im going back , sharianna announced .
joseph looked at the tunnel ahead , i think someone else has been down here , there are tool marks on the ceiling .
ill bet it will get bigger soon .
its a long way back , crawling backwards .
there is no way to turn around in this small space .
im going forward .
sharianna reluctantly agreed , even though she was feeling a little bit claustrophobic .
it did give her a little comfort knowing that percy was bringing up the rear .
joseph would never admit it , but he was feeling a little bit apprehensive also .
they continued on , it seemed like hours must have gone by .
joseph automatically reached out for the numberless time to place his light ahead .
as he began to crawl forward , he looked up just in time to see the lamp teeter .
he reached out to catch it , but it was too late .
the lamp fell over , but to josephs surprise , it toppled clear out of sight .
the light from the falling lamp revealed a large cavern .
we made it !
he exclaimed .
at that moment , his lamp hit the rocks below and the glass chimney shattered on the rocks as the rusty metal split open and spilled the flammable liquid , erupting into a large , smoky flame that illuminated a large portion of the cavern .
the flame quickly burned down in a few minutes as the fuel was consumed .
while the flame was still burning , joseph looked for a way down .
to the right of the tunnel , and less than a couple feet away , was a tall stalagmite rising up from the floor , ever attempting to connect with its counterpart , the stalactite reaching down eternally from the ceiling .
geologically speaking , their meeting was imminenta few thousand more years , give or take a few hundred .
joseph looked at the glistening , conical pillar .
he contorted his body , until he was crouching uncomfortably at the tunnels entrance , hanging onto a rusty old spike that had been driven into a crack in the stone sometime long ago .
with shariannas lamp on the floor behind him , he half leaned , half jumped out toward the stalagmite wrapping his arms and legs around it , he slid down the moist , slick , yet bumpy pillar , all in one motion .
sharianna stuck her head out from the tunnel entrance , holding her lamp , as the flame from josephs broken lantern flickered and went out .
come down the way i did .
and how are we going to get back up ?
retorted sharianna .
and how do you propose to get percy down ?
joseph looked around at the pile of rubble he was standing on , we could pile up this rubble against the base of the cliff .
once sharianna realized that his plan would work , she hung her lantern on the rusty spike and slid down the stalagmite to help him .
someone has definitely been here , sharianna said , pointing to a pile of rotten rope at the base of the small cliff , an old rope ladder .
looks like he is still here , joseph whispered as he suddenly saw , at the edge of the light , a skeleton curled up at the base of the cliff , with the remnants of an old trappers attire still clinging to his bones .
sharianna gasped when she saw him .
joseph took a step toward the hapless miner and interpreted the evidence to come to a conclusion as to what had taken place such a long time ago .
the rope ladder broke , and he fell , accidentally impaling himself on his pick , joseph deduced .
see , there are two broken rib bones and there is the pick , still lodged in his ribcage .
sharianna was full of compassion for the long dead trapper .
it must have been terrible to die here all alone .
well , we better start piling up the rocks , said joseph , trying to change the subject .
finally , their makeshift staircase was tall enough that joseph could reach up and lift percy down .
joseph handed the remaining lamp down to sharianna .
they proceeded to make their way through the seemingly endless cavern .
many of the stalactites and stalagmites had merged together to form pillars from floor to ceiling like some eerie subterranean cathedral of the underworld .
the floor of the cavern was an uneven maze of boulders and rocks intermixed with a few broken stalactites and stalagmites , evidence of long ago seismic activity .
as they explored the cavern , they came upon a large skele ton , with the bones scattered around and a few even broken .
from the skull , it looks like a giant bear like the one on the steamship except that this one is much larger and it has extra huge fangs .
joseph remembered reading a book about prehistoric creatures .
i think it might be an extinct cave bear .
a short distance from the bear skeleton , they came across an even more exciting skeleton it was complete , and the bones werent scattered around like the first skeleton .
sharianna recognized this new skeleton from the long , distinct fangs .
its a saber tooth tiger !
she exclaimed .
maybe the tiger was hunting the cave bear and they both got trapped in here , speculated joseph , as he imagined the saber tooth stalking the huge bear through primordial forests and the bear taking shelter in its cave , the giant tiger in pursuit .
he imagined a rock slide closing up the entrance to the cave , leaving the two enemies to battle it out , both of them inevitably dying in the darkness of the cave .
look , a tunnel , stated sharianna .
it is definitely man made , observed joseph , as they entered the mineshaft .
the floor was smooth and flat and devoid of rubble and debris .
the walking was quite easy .
they passed several side tunnels each time they chose to continue straight .
joseph assumed from the quartz filled cracks in the ceiling that the original miners must have been following veins of gold or some other precious mineral , since quartz and precious metals are often found together .
without warning , they suddenly found themselves at the edge of a cavernous room .
their lantern barely penetrated into the darkness of the great expanse .
the interior of the mountain had been excavated for several hundred feet , except for three foot pillars about every thirty feet .
while exploring the room , they found many artifacts made out of copper .
the most interesting of these was a pick .
there were also sledgehammers and chisels of various sizes .
joseph picked up one of the smaller chisels and put it in his pocket .
why would anyone make a pick out of copper ?
wondered joseph .
its a very soft metal , it wouldnt hold up to continuous use digging in rock .
after discovering that the tunnel which led them to this great room was only one of several tunnel entrances , joseph began to worry about finding the right tunnel on their way back .
they had not marked it , thinking that they could go straight back , but it turned out that the pillars were not all lined up as joseph had originally assumed .
as they progressed through the huge room they could not tell exactly which way they had come .
josephs worry was forgotten when he noticed that the quartz and granite of some of the pillars and one of the walls looked like it had golden wire woven throughout its structure .
the gold veins on the back wall radiated from a central vein in the middle of the wall that was several inches wide and extended from the floor all the way to the ceiling .
using the ancient copper pick , joseph began picking at the main vein .
after a while , he was able to extract two large chunks about the size of apples .
hey , hold the light so i can see .
i am , i think it is running out of oil , sharianna replied apprehensively , as she swished the small amount of remaining oil in the lamp .
joseph turned to see the lamp flickering .
wed better get out of here before it quits .
joseph handed one of the chunks of gold to sharianna and began to make his way quickly across the huge main room of the mine .
there , theres the tunnel .
they entered the tunnel quickly and hurried along the floor began to slope up and they came to a y. i dont remember a y in the tunnel .
neither do i , replied joseph .
the floor of the tunnel that we came through before was flat , decried sharianna .
the old lamp began to sputter more .
suddenly , they were enveloped in the utter darkness of the mine .
joseph felt a strange sense of despair grip him , as he felt helpless and completely lost .
he reached out with one hand and grabbed onto sharianna at the same time she was reaching for him .
he put the chunk of gold in his pocket and with his other hand he reached out for the wall , in order to give himself some sense of location .
what do we do now ?
sharianna cried , as the same feelings of foreboding and helplessness began to overwhelm her .
sharianna set the lantern on the floor and reached for percys collar .
she rubbed his fur and somehow it gave her a little comfort to know that percy was right there beside her .
lets keep going it is sloping upward it must lead to the surface , eventually , she suggested .
in the complete darkness , it did not matter whether they had their eyes closed or open , they still could see absolutely nothing .
time seemed to be lost as they slowly groped their way along the rough wall of the tunnel .
suddenly , joseph stopped .
your camera !
he exclaimed .
what ?
you want to take a picture ?
asked sharianna incredulously .
no , the flash will light up the tunnel .
yeah , even the screen might give us some light .
she retrieved the camera from her pocket .
smile , she said , as a painfully blinding flash of light momentarily illuminated the tunnel .
that didnt do me much good , said joseph , rubbing his eyes .
look , the screen does emit light .
a feeble glow extended a few feet into the darkness .
i guess it is better than nothing , said joseph gratefully .
they passed many side tunnels and each time they had to guess which way to go .
they wandered their way around the labyrinth , while the battery on shariannas camera slowly went dead .
joseph couldnt tell if they had been stumbling along in the darkness for minutes , hours or days except that his hand began to feel raw and painful from touching the wall of the tunnel , and his legs were weak .
he was about to complain about his discomfort when shari anna said im tired and hungry , lets rest .
they sank to the floor , still holding tightly to the others hand , each fearful of becoming separated and left alone in the darkness and the silence .
sharianna put her arm around percys neck and pulled him close .
his warmth gave her the reassurance she needed .
the only sound they could hear was their own breathing .
in the darkness , sharianna suddenly felt percy stand up and face down the tunnel in the direction that they had come from .
she moved her hand to his collar .
what is it boy ?
she asked soothingly , as she felt the muscles of his body quiver slightly as he whined softly .
she began to fear more than the darkness and the silence , as she imagined what else might be living down there in the depths .
do you think anything else could be down here ?
she asked nervously .
josephs imagination was conjuring up the spirits of long dead miners and other ghostly denizens of the darkness .
he remembered the stories he had heard , that dogs could sense the spirits of the dead .
he tried to shake off these disturbing thoughts .
no , i doubt it , he forced himself to say , but sharianna could feel his hand begin to sweat and knew that he was scared , despite his attempt to sound strong , brave and optimistic .
what about bears , mountain lions , or other wild animals ?
she asked .
joseph hadnt even thought about the possibilities of these other dangers yet .
he reached over and put his other hand on percys back .
it also gave him some courage , knowing that percy was there and would protect them , no matter what might come down the tunnel in the darkness .
joseph reached into his pocket and pulled out the ancient copper chisel that he had taken from the main chamber and held it like a weapon .
sharianna heard the sound first .
it was a low volume high pitched noise she shuddered .
could there be rats down here ?
moments later , she could hear a soft flurry of movement as well .
she reached into her pocket for the lump of gold to use as a weapon , if need be , when her finger touched something else .
my gecko , she exclaimed softly .
your what ?
joseph whispered , as he tried to prepare his nerves for whatever was coming down the tunnel .
i wish we still had the spacesuits , he thought , as he pictured them lying uselessly on the boulder by the lake where they left them .
ill bet mom and dad have found them by now , he thought .
sharianna pulled from her pocket the key chain mom had bought her while they were in hawaii it had a small , silver gecko attached to it .
she pushed the tiny button on the top of the geckos head and it seemed to joseph that a huge spotlight burst forth from shariannas hand , but in reality it was a small led light .
the light was so welcome that joseph had to quickly suck back the sob of relief that nearly escaped his lips .
i had forgotten all about it , sharianna exclaimed excitedly .
as their eyes followed the beam of light toward the ceiling , they suddenly saw the source of the strange noises .
bats .
josephs voice was full of relief as he realized the implications .
it must be getting dark outside and they are headed out to feed !
hurry , lets follow them !
sharianna jumped up and , holding her precious little light , led the way , but the bats were quickly out of sight .
as they hurried along , they came to a small side tunnel , barely big enough to stand up in .
which way now ?
asked joseph , as he strained his ears to hear the sound of the bats .
which way boy ?
asked sharianna , bending down close to percy .
percy seemed confused as well he sniffed around on the floor , but of course there was no trail left by the flying bats .
suddenly , a single straggler appeared out of the darkness and fluttered down the side tunnel .
this way !
ordered joseph quickly , as they tried in vain to keep up with the bat .
the tunnel became smaller and they had to run half crouched down .
unexpectedly , they ran into a dead end .
sharianna spun around , shining her dim light on the walls .
where did it go ?
she cried desperately .
joseph looked up at the ceiling , and to his surprise , he could see at the end of a vertical shaft , a small , round patch of the night sky with a few stars shining like eternal beacons of hope .
look !
it must be a ventilation shaft , he declared , with enormous relief .
but how do we get up ?
questioned sharianna .
let me see the light .
joseph reached up into the shaft with shariannas light it has handholds and footholds cut right into the walls of the shaft i think we can climb up .
what about percy ?
we cant just leave him down here , insisted sharianna .
ive got an idea .
joseph handed the light back to sharian na , pulled off his shirt and began putting it on percy , with his front legs through the armholes .
give me your belt .
sharianna handed him the belt .
joseph looked at it it was made of cheap vinyl .
i dont think this will hold , he said , as he handed it back to her .
removing percys strong leather collar , joseph squatted down over percy and , putting the collar through the neck of the shirt that was now on percy , he threaded it through his own belt and buckled it .
he stood up and was able to pick percy up .
joseph reached up and grabbed hold of the first handholds in the shaft and put his foot on one of the niches in the back wall .
help me lift percy .
sharianna helped lift percy until joseph was fully in the shaft with percy dangling below .
at first percy didnt seem to be that heavy but by the time they were halfway up the shaft , josephs arms and legs were trembling from the strain he stopped to rest .
i dont know if i can make it , he said .
sharianna was right below .
suddenly joseph felt the weight lifted .
he looked down sharianna had the key chain in her teeth and from the dim illumination he could see that she had followed him up the shaft and had percys belly resting on her shoulders .
they continued to struggle up the shaft luckily , percy sensed that they were helping so he didnt wiggle or struggle too much .
finally , weak from hunger , stress and muscle fatigue they reached the top and joseph crawled out of the hole with percy and then reached down and helped sharianna .
they sat on the ground trying to recoup their expended strength .
they were well over a mile from the lake they could see the robot flying low around the shore of the lake with its lights illuminating the trees .
theyre looking for us .
sharianna flashed her little light in the direction of the robot , but there was no response .
do you still have any matches ?
asked joseph , as he put his shirt back on .
no , i left them in the old cabin .
by the moonlight they could see the lake and the small river that flowed into it and the small stream that flowed by the cabin .
look , theres the stream that leads by the trappers cabin !
exclaimed joseph jubilantly .
and the cliff above it , added sharianna .
they carefully made their way down the mountain by the light of the moon shariannas little light was not producing very much light by this time .
she carefully put it back in her pocket .
im not going to lose this after it saved our lives , she thought .
sharianna quickly got the matches from the cabinet while joseph got another can of lamp oil .
grab those old rotten clothes too , instructed joseph .
out in the clearing in front of the cabin , joseph doused the rags with the fuel .
by striking two matches at the same time on the side of the old box he was able to get the fire going .
the fire burned rapidly , creating an eerie light across the front of the old cabin and dancing shadows on the surrounding trees .
they could no longer see the robot in its search , but sudden ly , it appeared above the trees and landed right in front of them .
it bent down with its hand directly in front of the foot to create a step .
percy and his best friends bounded up the foot as the airlock opened with mom and dad standing in the doorway .
where have you been !
chastised mom with a sob , as she embraced her children .
we have been frantic for hours .
we found an ancient gold mine , explained joseph .
sharianna pulled the chunk of gold out of her pocket .
look what we found .
is it gold ?
asked mom .
sure looks like it , commented dad , as he hefted it in his hand .
sure is heavy , like gold .
how much do you think it is worth ?
inquired sharianna .
i dont know , i guess it depends on how heavy it is and how pure it is , but i would suspect that it must be worth thousands of dollars , replied dad .
joseph pulled the other chunk and the copper chisel out of his pocket .
weve got another one .
and check this out dad , he said , as he handed him the chisel .
its copper , observed dad .
yeah , but its as hard as steel , replied joseph .
there were picks and other tools made out of the same stuff .
i heard that the ancient americans had some way to harden coppermodern scientists still havent figured out how they did it .
thomas examined the chisel with great interest .
he pounded on the chunk of gold with the chisel .
its malleable , im sure it is gold .
joseph marked the gps coordinates of the mine on his map .
when you did not respond , we realized that you must have taken off your spacesuits , said dad .
we found them right where you left them , explained mom .
i guess if we had left them on , we would have been able to communicate with you , sharianna concluded .
were sorry we made you worry .
they followed the railroad tracks all the way into utah .
sharianna and joseph told mom and dad all about their experience in the mine as they traveled .
the monotony of watching the shinny tracks and the rhythm of the railroad ties flash by in the moonlight forced josephs weary eyes to droop as he laid his head back on the giant beanbag .
sharianna had already succumbed .
i cant stop thinking about all that has happened to us , whispered sophia .
especially the obelisks .
i wish we had some more batteries for shariannas cameraid sure like to look at those alien symbols again .
i think the strangest thing we have encounteredand it has been a strange few daysis the obelisk at the north pole .
what was it doing there ?
how long has it been there ?
why in the world did it take off ?
just because we touched it ?
now , im kind of wishing we had followed it like sharianna suggested .
where did it go ?
could there have been aliens in it , or was it automated ?
i think the moon monster was very strange , and completely unexpectedeveryone knows there is not supposed to be any life on the moon , replied thomas .
he continued , did i tell you that both joseph and i had a strong feeling of dj vu ?
no .
when ?
out in the desert when we found the pictographs .
there was some form of ancient writing on the rocks too .
you never mentioned that before , chastised sophia .
sorry , i guess i forgot in all the excitement of the robot .
anyway , i had the same feeling on the moon , except even stronger .
for a moment , i could see in my mind the rock art perfectly .
the robot was depicted on the rocks , you know .
yeah , i remember you telling me that , replied sophia .
i think there was even an obelisk , and maybe a round circle that depicted the moon .
joseph thought that the human stick figures on the mural represent us .
do you think it is possible ?
replied sophia .
i dont know , but if we had dug where i wanted to , we would never have found the robot .
what do you mean ?
asked sophia .
i wanted to dig into the side of the gully , but joseph wanted to dig right in the bottomwhere he found the spearhead .
he said maybe it was a good luck charm .
now that i mention it , i think there was also a spearhead in the pictograph , commented thomas .
as soon as we get home and settled , i want to take a drive out there and see those pictographs and the writingi did not think there was any written language among the ancient natives of north america , said sophia thoughtfully .
suddenly , her face got very serious do you think we were meant to have the robot ?
what do you mean , meant , to have it ?
you know , fate , destiny , she replied .
i dont know ive always thought that we could make our own destinywe are free to choose , after all .
i guess youre right , but i cant help feeling like there is some meaning or reason for all of this , agreed sophia .
im just grateful that we are all together and that we are almost safely home .
look , there is the great salt lake .
thomas remembered hearing that the lake was very shallow , so he decided that they would fly slowly over the lake , skimming the surface , so that they might look to any observers on the shore to be simply one of the brine shrimp boats coming in late .
once across the lake , they flew about a foot or two above the deserted back roads , traveling at the speed limit and finally arriving home at 3 30 in the morning .
let them sleep , whispered thomas , as he looked at percy with joseph and sharianna on either side of him .
do you think the robot is safe here in the barn ?
asked sophia quietly .
i think so , even if they were looking for the ufo , ill bet they werent looking for it on the back roads .
with the lights of the robot turned down , we probably looked like a truck to any surveillance they might have had .
a very quiet truck , sophia added , as they entered the cargo area .
they surveyed the room .
on the left was the kitchen .
on the right was the living room with the sofas and chairs .
in between the chairs , up against the curved wall were the treasures the kids and thomas insisted on bringing home the strange metal ball , the small asteroid from the asteroid field , shariannas moon rock , the glowing piece of railing , the map from the golden alaskan bridge and the large bumpy but oddly uniform meteorite from the moon crater .
on the counter were the smaller treasures moms chandeliers , josephs shark teeth , the rusty old pearl handled pistol and the golden name plate , shariannas piece of the shredded door from the mine on the moon , her shells from their island paradise , josephs small copper chisel and their two chunks of gold from the eldorado mine .
i think i could handle one more night on the anti gravity couch , yawned thomas , as he laid down on one of them .
i wonder why there are no beds in the robot , mused sophia , as she took the other sofa .
thomas sighed as he lost himself in the perfect comfort of the sofa .
good night sweetheart .
good night .
as thomas began to slip into sleep , he gazed at the meteor ite .
it seems to have changed color , he thought groggily to himself , but welcome sleep had already claimed him .
chapter twenty six thats no meteorite joseph felt something wet and warm on his face .
he recognized the sensation even before he opened his eyes .
percy !
he whispered , as he grabbed him around the neck and they wrestled off the beanbag onto the floor .
sharianna opened her eyes to see the ceiling of the barn displayed on the view screen .
were home , she sighed , with both feelings of relief and a hint of sadness , simultaneously .
joseph stopped wrestling and looked around at the view screen .
we must have gotten here sometime in the night .
i guess we made it .
wheres mom and dad ?
asked sharianna , as she went up the steps and made her way toward the back door of the control room .
joseph and percy followed her .
as they passed the captains chairs , joseph glanced at the princess clock on the console .
it read 9 47 .
as they entered the cargo bay , the first thing that joseph noticed was the meteorite .
instead of being the brownish black color from yesterday , it now appeared to be more orange .
the coloration seemed to follow the texture of the meteorite .
the high spots were blacker , while the low spots blended into a rusty orange color .
its pretty i guess the colors were revealed as the moon dust fell off of it , whispered sharianna softly , trying not to wake up mom and dad , as she looked at the gray dust on the floor around the meteorite .
percy planted a great big slobbery kiss , or rather a lick , across moms face from her chin to the tip of her nose .
ugh , percy !
exclaimed mom , as she immediately awoke and wiped her lips on her sleeve .
what did you let him do that for ?
asked mom , as she looked at joseph .
i didnt know he was going to do it , joseph replied , laugh ing .
percy then turned his diabolical attention on dad , who was still sleeping .
dad awoke with a start as the enthusiastic dog leaped on top of him .
look , dad , how pretty the meteorite is .
sharianna looked at the meteorite again and was even more impressed with the change .
she stepped over and put her hand on the meteorite .
it feels warm , she observed .
it almost glows , added joseph .
after i get a nice hot bath , im going to town for some groceries whos coming ?
asked mom .
me , sharianna replied .
ill come , offered joseph .
dad declined the invitation i think ill stay and start fixing the hole in the side of the barn .
how about a hand , joseph ?
ill stay and help you , dad , offered sharianna .
while you are out , stop off and get a gallon of paint for the barn , suggested dad .
by the time mom and joseph got back from shopping , dad and sharianna had the repairs to the barn well under way .
guess what we saw on the way to town ?
asked joseph , as he handed dad the paint .
i dont know .
what ?
queried dad .
a great big army truck set up with a whole bunch of satellite dishes and twirling radar antennae .
do you think they are still looking for us ?
asked sharianna .
im sure they are , concluded dad .
im sure glad we came in last night along the back roads .
they must have thought we were a truck , theorized mom .
they may not have even been scanning the surface at all , because they were looking for an unidentified flying object , right ?
reasoned joseph .
sharianna interjected we may not be so unidentified anymore .
a lot of people have seen the robot the pilots and the stewardess , the astronaut on the space station , the chinese military , the koreans , a lot of people in tokyo , both u.s. and russian subs , the salvage ships divers , and the harpooners on the whaler .
just more tabloid fuel , commented joseph .
nevertheless , i think we had better keep the robot hidden for a while , cautioned dad .
here , give me a hand nailing up the rest of these boards .
suddenly , joseph remembered the safe .
what about the safe ?
he asked , excitedly .
sharianna and i already got it out , by using the engine hoist .
its over there .
the rusty old safe lay on its back on the floor near the welding torch .
i didnt want to wait for you , but dad said that mom would want to see it opened up , sharianna informed joseph .
well , what are we waiting for ?
asked mom eagerly .
do you want to do the honors ?
asked dad , as he handed the torch to joseph .
lets start by cutting off the hinges then we can try prying the lid up .
the metal popped and spattered as the rusty scale on the safe resisted melting .
joseph turned off the torch and grabbed the sledgehammer to bang off the thick scale .
once the scale was knocked off , the torch cut easily through the remaining metal .
dad got two large crowbars off the wall and handed one to mom .
pry it up , instructed joseph , as he lifted his welding hood .
careful , its still hot .
mom and dad pried up on the hinge side of the door .
joseph grabbed a chisel and a hammer from the drawer and tapped it into the crack opposite of the hinges , pushing the door with the locking pins away from the jamb .
the heavy old plate of iron slid , and then clanged to the floor , revealing the contents of the safe .
mom gasped in disbelief .
dad let out a whoop of excitement .
joseph , please go get the scale out of the bathroom , mom asked breathlessly .
and a calculator , called out dad , as joseph went tearing out of the barn toward the house .
lying in jumbled disarray , with deteriorating record books and documents , were many solid gold ingots .
and even more , larger bricks that looked kind of black .
what are these ?
asked sharianna , as she hefted one of the black bricks .
dad took the chisel that joseph had used to open the safe , and scraped the brick .
a shiny streak of metal was revealed silver .
it tarnishes when in contact with salt water .
as they began to empty the safe , they also found a number of gold coins and antique silver dollars interspersed with coins of varying denominations .
mom reached in and picked up a deteriorating leather pouch opening it , she discovered a stack of both silver and gold certificates , still damp , but intact .
joseph returned with the scale and set it on the floor and they began to stack the gold ingots on it .
dad took the two large nuggets from the ancient american mine in canada off the workbench and placed them on the top of the pile .
mom looked at the scale incredulously .
hey , eighty seven pounds .
thats how much i weigh , commented sharianna .
oh , my goodness , whispered mom , as she sat down on the floor next to the scale and looked at dad .
how much is gold worth right now ?
she asked , in a soft whisper .
about seventeen hundredper ounce , answered dad , in an even softer whisper .
how many ounces in a pound ?
asked sharianna .
sixteen , mom replied .
joseph still held the calculator .
lets see , eighty seven pounds , times sixteen ounces per pound , equals one thousand three hundred and ninety two ounces .
multiplied byhow much ?
asked joseph , looking at dad .
seventeen hundred .
joseph typed in the numbers , one , seven , zero , zero .
that equals sharianna looked at the calculator and they read the numbers in stereo .
two million , three hundred and sixty six thousand , and four hundred dollars !
and that doesnt count the silver and the coins , or the paper money , exclaimed mom , in delighted disbelief .
ill bet these coins are collectors items too , declared joseph , as he picked up some of the gold coins .
were rich , arent we ?
concluded sharianna .
suddenly , percy jumped up from where he had been comfort ably sprawled on the cool cement of the barn floor and ran toward the robot .
dad had turned the robot onto its side in order to get the safe out easier and it was still in this position .
the ankle door was only a couple feet off the floor .
percy leaped through the door and let out a yelp when he experienced the shift in gravity and slid down the wall to the floor of the air lock , then charged down the hall toward the cargo area .
joseph was close behind , followed by the rest of the family .
joseph stood in the doorway and pointed at the large meteor ite as dad burst into the room .
the meteorite had divided into two hollow halves .
it was hinged like a huge interlocking locket .
on both halves they could see small blinking lights , almost like led lights .
thats no meteorite !
exclaimed mom .
directly above one half , suspended a few inches in mid air , was what looked like a flat , round , red cushion about eighteen inches across and several inches thick , with a depression in the middle .
its an eggshell , breathed sharianna .
on the cushion , cradled by the depression , sat the broken pieces of a beautiful blue green eggshell , about twice the size of an ostrich egg .
it must be an alien egg !
the meteorite must be some sort of incubation chamber , assumed joseph , as he looked around apprehensively for the alien that must have emerged .
more like a stasis chamber , commented sophia .
who knows how long it sat on the moon .
suddenly , the colored lights on the inside of the meteorite went out and the cushion dropped , spilling the remnants of the shell onto the floor .
percy started sniffing the floor as if he were following a scent .
joseph grabbed him by the collar , and followed him toward the control room .
ill go first , insisted dad .
percy whined as he tried to squeeze past dads legs in the small passageway to the control room , but joseph held tightly onto his collar .
dad looked through the doorway , but could see nothing unusual .
he stepped down onto the main level with joseph and percy by his side and looked over the console , down into the lower observation area .
there , curled up on josephs huge beanbag was the little alien .
its some kind of reptile , assumed mom .
sharianna pushed past mom to get a better view and stood on the top step leading down to the lower level .
it looks more like a dinosaur , to me , concluded joseph .
maybe a baby t rex , or a velociraptor .
sharianna !
it might bite !
whispered mom anxiously .
as shariana approached , the alien opened its eyes , raised its head and stood up on two legs on the beanbag .
sharianna smiled and reached out her arms .
she looked into its large , beautiful , brilliant turquoise blue eyes .
it doesnt look dangerous to me .
she moved down the steps toward the alien .
its just a baby .
hi there , cutie pie , she consoled in a soothing , sweet voice .
the alien mimicked her motions , seeming to smile , while reaching out with its arms and making a soft , melodious , crooning sound .
sharianna picked up the baby alien and cradled him in her arms .
its a baby dragon !
exclaimed joseph softly , as he saw the wings slowly unfold from the aliens back .
the end of the beginning tell the author what you think , or ask a question brentonbarwick hotmail.com become a defenders of destiny friend on facebook.com to get previews and announcements of new book releases and other interesting news .
postword long before the beginning of the beginning a bony , aged , finger pointed toward the clear morn ing sky .
look .
as the word passed the wrinkled lips , it carried an unexpectedly vibrant tone of confidence and power .
two pairs of eyes followed the trajectory indicated by the finger .
a small speck appeared above the deserts horizon and quickly grew larger as it rapidly and silently approached the three diverse friends , who stood unflinching as it passed directly overhead .
it was close enough that the old seer could have easily hit the strange object with an arrow from his bow , had that been his desire .
the silence and welcome tranquility of the morning was supplanted by a thunderous shock , as the huge object collided with the sand a few miles away .
a great cloud of dust erupted from the desert and lingered in the still air .
shall we fly to the point of impact and discover what manner of creature hath fallen from heaven ?
inquired draco .
his powerful voice retained its characteristic absence of all apprehension as it reverberated softly from deep within his cavernous chest .
as the trio approached , draco was the first to see the long shallow impact crater , since his eyes were much more powerful than those of his companions .
the dust had fully dissipated by the time they arrived at the deep end of the crater they gazed incredulously at the object .
the sand and rocks at the head of the crater buried two thirds of the object .
the dust refused to cling to the portion that was still exposed its dark surface glistened in the sunlight .
i can not comprehend how an object of such size could be hurled through the sky , commented the seer thoughtfully .
it must have fallen from the stars .
yes , it must be from another world , observed the man who was dressed in a fine white linen shirt and woven cloth britches tucked into fine , black leather boots .
he looked at draco , perhaps even from your home world .
the ancient seer , in his traditional deerskin and handmade beads , placed his hand on the object .
it was cool to the touch and felt smoother than frozen water on a still pond .
he leaned forward and gazed intently at the object as if he would peer into its depths .
suddenly , he fell slowly backward .
draco reached out and caught him gently before he reached the ground and carefully carried him out of the pit and into the welcome shade of a tall rock outcropping that had been pushed up by the tremendous force of the strange object .
the man in the white shirt was a wise man of many years experience , but obviously not as ancient as the seer .
he quickly removed his long cloak from his shoulder and placed it upon the ground .
he knelt down as draco gently placed the seer upon the cloak .
are you well , my old friend , he asked softly .
i am well , spoke the seer after a few moments .
i have returned from another place .
what place ?
asked draco .
the seer looked up at the stone .
im not sure , he replied .
may i use your long knife ?
he asked , as he stood up .
the well dressed man quickly drew his dagger and handed it to the seer , who began to use it to etch the descent of the object from the sky into the rock outcropping .
the seer finished his carving and looked out over the crater .
his companions noticed a faraway look in his eyes .
what do you see ?
asked draco , who could obviously see much farther and with much greater clarity than the old seer .
draco saw in the distance a hawk souring through the sky .
on the ground below the hawk he could see a jackrabbit resting in the shade of a small shrub .
farther in the distance , almost at the horizon , he saw a lone antelope but he knew the seer could not see these things .
the seer looked into the distance and forward through time .
he saw what he thought was a whirlwind in the distance .
as the plume of dust drew nearer , he imagined it to be a small herd of bison stampeding across the desert , except that bison did not frequent the desert .
the unusual dust cloud approached the place where he stood .
he was surprised to see , in the leading edge of the dust cloud , four persons .
they were riding astride no , they were within a strange beast with round feet .
the beast came to rest only a few steps from the rock outcropping .
the sides of the beast sprang open and its occupants spewed forth and ran to the rock outcropping and stared at his freshly finished carvings their mouths were moving and he could tell that they were speaking , but he could not hear their words .
the fair haired woman pointed to some strange scratches at the bottom of his carving .
suddenly , he could hear her words , but she spoke in a strange tongue that he could not understandit sounded much like the language of his two companions .
even though he could not understand the words , he somehow comprehended their meaning .
as the words faded , so too did the woman and her three companionsand the beast that they were traveling in .
the seer turned to his companions .
you once said that your people could draw words ?
yes , we have a written language .
will you draw these words here at the bottom of my draw ing ?
can you read the inscription , mom ?
inquired sharianna .
yes , but its very strangeit is an ancient gaelic form of latin .
how could an ancient language from scotland end up on a rock in the middle of the west desert ?
the inflection in sophias voice and the expression on her face reflected the query carried by her words .
she continued these words , fatum alastriona are interpreted defenders of mankinds destiny .
these other words are astro laris , which mean star tool .
astrolaris , repeated joseph thoughtfully .
thats what we should call the baby dragon .
book two , chapter one the baby alien the alien made another soft , melodious , crooning sound it reminded joseph of the purring of a kitten combined with the gentle cooing of a dove .
mom anxiously , yet cautiously , went down the four steps to the tiny lower observation level of robo ships control room .
she was worried that her movements might startle the baby alien that was encircled in the protective embrace of shariannas arms .
dad articulated moms concern , his soft whisper seemed to reverberate in his ears because of the small spherical space of the control room as he cautioned , dont make any sudden movements or loud noises .
sharianna turned around .
see , hes not dangerous , she said tenderly .
it is a dragon , gasped mom , in an almost inaudible , incred ulous whisper as the babys wings gently refolded inconspicuously onto its back .
her thoughts were in ultra high speed what was a mythological creatures egg doing in an incubation stasis chamber on the moon ?
it must have been there a very long time before we dug it up .
maybe dragons werent myths .
thats quite obvious im standing here looking at one .
she looked at the sharp little claws , six on each hand and foot .
the creature seemed to smile , revealing two rows of innumerable sharp gleaming teeth .
its definitely designed to eat meat , she thought with fearful horror , as she saw how close it was to shariannas tender throat .
all these thoughts flashed through her mind in the moment it took for sophias eyes to meet the big beautiful turquoise blue eyes of the infant dragon .
somehow , her heart seemed to connect with the dragon through those gentle orbs .
her anxiety miraculously and instantaneously morphed into a motherly manifestation of warmth and tenderness .
no , hes not dangerous , agreed mom kindly , as she reached out her hand and gently caressed the cheek of the baby dragon .
its nearly scarlet skin felt surprisingly soft i wonder if he is hungry ?
wondered sharianna , as she threaded her way through the ships living room and entered the hallway that led down to robo ships ankle door .
that reminds me , said mom , we bought a bucket of kfc while we were in town .
they sat down at the kitchen table sharianna had the baby carefully cradled in her arms .
here you go little guy , do you want some chicken ?
asked joseph , as he handed a drumstick to the little dragon .
it reached out and took the chicken with its mouth .
to the familys surprise it reached up with one of its front feet and held the chicken , just like a person would .
this was the first opportunity the family had to get a close look at its feet .
those are more like hands , than feet , exclaimed joseph .
youre right .
look , it has six fingers , but two of them seem to be opposable thumbs , one on each side of the hand , instead of only one , like us , observed dad , as he held up his hand and wiggled his thumb .
suddenly , they heard a crunching sound as the baby bit all the way through the bone of the drumstick .
the dragon made a strange growling sound from deep within his chest .
it was definitely different than the cooing sound they had heard before , and yet , it was not alarming .
it was as if the infant were saying mmm , like a person when they really like something they are eating .
the baby finished off the chicken leg , bone and all , and then crawled out of shariannas arms and onto the table .
reaching into the bucket of chicken with his hands , he pulled out another piece .
he squatted on his hind legs and using his tail for balance he began to devour the chicken , he seemed to relish the bone and gristle just as much as the meat .
when he was done eating , he crawled back into shariannas arms , closed his eyes and went to sleep .
dont miss the rest of book tw0 ! !
they name the baby alien astrolaris he becomes a member of the family and grows into a beautiful , incredibly intelligent dragon .
grandma joins the adventure in search of astrolaris ' origins .
they return to the moon in search of more stasis chambers and discover that the obelisks were built by a strange bird like race .
they find irrefutable evidence for ancient life on mars and are surprised to find that the thick layer of ice encapsulating europa , jupiter 's large icy moon , conceals an ocean of liquid water warmed by volcanic activity .
it is an incredibly beautiful world , full of colorfully vibrant biolumines cent plants and creatures , including an octopus like technologi cally advanced sentient species on the brink of war with a fanatical anti technology terrorist group .
sharianna and joseph become bargaining pieces in the struggle .
can the family save them with the help of their new friends ?
on the way home , joseph experiments with robo ships controls and discovers that it has faster than the speed of light capabilities .
how fast can it go ?
where might they travel ?
on their approach to earth they scan for stasis chambers and discover that there are hundreds of them scattered throughout great britain and scandinavia , dating from the middle ages only one is still viable , but it is at the bottom of loch ness ... etherial hatches from the second chamber .
a video of the young dragons during a night flight is viewed by a tibetan monk on the internet he shows it to draco , the last surviving medieval dragon see the book one postword and the prequel series .
draco travels across the world in search of the young dragons .
he tells them that their home world was destroyed long ago , but another solar system may have been successfully colonized your friend in reading and writing , brenton barwick i might as well because i have no choice by travis ford i might as well because i have no choice by travis ford copyright 2014 travis ford .
smashwords edition license notes this book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this book may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with .
if youre reading this book and you did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then you should return to www.smashwords.com books view.com 14578 and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
all rights reserved .
no part of this book may be reproduced in any form by any electronic or mechanical means including photocopying , recording , or information storage and retrieval without permission in writing from the author .
this is a work of fiction .
names , characters , places , and incidents are either the product of the authors imagination , or are used fictitiously , and any resemblance to actual persons , living or dead , is purely coincidental .
chapter one it was drizzling by the time we reached the railroad bridge .
evening was coming on , and the air was death .
we tied our shoe laces tighter and slid down the embankment to get under the bridge where there was some kind of shelter of a sort .
we built a fire then huddled over it wondering what had become of our summer wages .
three of use were there .
strangers until a few hours ago .
now joined in the idea of going east , being rootless as a tumbleweed , blowing on , resting here and there against this fence or that , but staying nowhere long .
as for the others , i had no idea .
the black skeletal frame of the bridge danced in the wavering light from the fire .
and from time to time , the flames guttered and hissed as the wind blew down the bridge , spattering us with cold drops from off the bridge .
hustling around for firewood reminded me of a winter i spent in vermont at the harpoon cottage .
no snow on the ground all winter long , only ice grass from time to time , but cold .
the grass froze rock hard on the ground that year and never warmed until late spring .
thinking about it now all in all , that had been a good winter .
the cabin was snug against the wind , the pot bellied stove gave off almost too much heat , and there were old magazines and a couple of books lying around .
when not in mind to read , id sit and ponder .
whilst only a young adult , i had taken to rebuilding places in my mind .
places id lived in or seen .
and when nothing else to do , i would put a place together , every single thing in place , then bit by bit id recall people id known there and what was said , talked about and the like .
when a man sets out to recall in detail as i did , he sets more to working than hes figured on , for he never looks at anything after that without thinking how hell recall it in time to come .
it also sets a man to thinking about himself and when a man stands himself up to ponder at , he cant always be pleased at what he sees .
no man is going to get very far unless hes a hand to notice .
hustling takes you over a lot of rough terrain , and pretty soon you get to know every draw , everybody , hill , lump of shrubbery , dirt maneuver , scheme , contender , ally , dope user and pusher there is .
and you get to learn the police and their tactics .
you notice the game trails and springs , and where the homeless go for shelter and a lot more besides that .
back there at the harpoon cottage , thered always been a pot of baked beans .
and ive never had my fill of beans .
sitting there beside that warm blazing fire under the trestle with night coming on , i kept thinking back to that place and those pots of beans .
they would be tasty right fucking now .
that big nigga , he looked at me and he said , you look like you been in a fight . ''
her and there , '' i said .
you fight with the gloves ? ''
nobody ever showed me how .
i just fight the best way i know how . ''
ive boxed , '' he said .
he was a nigga , maybe a year or two older than my twenty six years , standing around six feet , and built strong .
and he had good hands .
that was the first thing he said about me , you have good hands .
he doubled up my fist .
flat across my knuckles .
stands shock better .
you could punch , i think . ''
puttering around , i fetched back a few more sticks .
a branch or two , a few old sticks and such the like , anything to keep the fire going with .
when did you say the freight was due ? ''
karl kellen asked .
ten twelve if its on time . ''
karl kellen was a nigga , a big black man , raw boned and with an uncurried look , shaggy hair and with a broad , tough face , yet not bad looking .
he had small , ice hazel eyes , no more warmth in them than in the head of a nail .
twelve hours before , not one of us had known the other .
before then , we were complete strangers .
wed come together in jail , in the holding tank .
only id been pulled in for fighting , and it wasnt the first time .
seemed like i was always being arrested for fighting , either something violent .
the wind blew cold .
rain spattered over us and i pulled the collar of my cloth suit coat higher around my ears and stretched my hands toward the flames .
we were sheltered in part by a bank of drift sand .
on our left ran a small stream .
the rain was falling harder now .
the gusts of wind were more frequent .
you got a place , '' jaquan vessey , the nigga asked .
i mean , do you got a place to go ? ''
i got no place and never had a place except east . ''
with a jester , i indicated my sacked back pack .
my homes been in the middle of that , '' i said pointing at the back pack .
you got to have a ride . ''
you think so , do you ?
sometimes i figure ive packed that back pack damn near as far as a hitchhiker . ''
id be damned if id pack it , '' karl kellen said .
id steal a ride before id do that . ''
its been done , '' i admitted , not wanting to argue principle with a stranger over a friendly fire .
we listened to the rain and hopefully listened for a train whistle , but it was a long while until train time and i was hungry as a springtime bear fresh out of hibernation .
maybe i could get a big rig job , '' jaquan suggested .
there was a nigga who rode for a firm i worked for down in new mexico .
he was a good hand .
can you drive ? ''
i never drove any eighteen wheelers , but i drove a sixteen wheeler . ''
he grinned at me .
i was a licensed cdl . ''
you arent the first , '' i said .
and then added , they tell me you really got to drive for ciant . ''
i can drive .
but i never drove for any farm service . ''
a man who cant live without working , '' karl kellen scoffed , is a fool .
id see myself in hell before id eat dust behind a bunch of hypocritical government know it all buffoons . ''
well , i sat quiet feeling the old ned coming up on me .
all my life ive driven rigs , hustling a few items from the hauls on the market , either worked hard for what much id had , and i didnt take to this stranger making me out to be a fool .
come to think of it , he didnt seem to be doing so well either .
jaquan vessey , he sat quiet too , and never said aight , yes , or no .
and that seemed to be a good idea .
this black guy was a whole lot bigger than me and my ribs and jaw was still sore from the last fight .
you do what youre a mind to , '' i said after a minute .
ill drive rigs . ''
for 4000 a month ? ''
he sneered .
you guys come along with me and youll be wearing silk shirts and versache and suit clothes .
i could use two men like you . ''
back up the stream i heard a footstep splash in the water .
somebodys coming , '' i said and turned my head to look .
when i looked back , karl kellen was gone .
sit close , '' jaquan warned .
its the law . ''
it sure was .
there were four of them .
four big men wearing uniforms an armed with shotguns .
they had spread outward as they came up to the fire and they looked from one to the other at us .
you , '' the man i knew as the sheriff said with his shotgun , stand up . ''
he came up to me .
you armed ? ''
no , '' i said .
he went over me with as smooth and knowing a frisk as ever i got , then did the same for jaquan .
you havent even got a knife or a razor ? ''
jaquan lifted his big hands .
nothing but these , '' he said , meaning his own two fists .
the sheriff looked around at a narrow faced , red haired man .
didnt you say there were three of them ?
you had three of them , you said . ''
thats right .
they didnt come together , but they left together .
the black man there , he was straight vag .
loafing around , no visible means of support .
we gave him an overnight stay in jail and a floater . ''
the one in the bread hat , he got into a fight with quri zainuddin over at club exotica .
they busted up the place . ''
the sheriff looked at me with respect .
with quri ?
i saw him .
i figured it had to be a bigger man than you .
what do you weigh ? ''
a hundred and seventy , '' i said .
i never seen size made any much difference . ''
then kind of grudgingly , i had to say , although that there quri , id say he was a fair hand . ''
the sheriff chuckled , yes , id say that also .
nobody ever whipped him before . ''
he kicked the sack containing my gear .
whats in that ? ''
clothes .
essentials .
im headed east . ''
howd you get here ?
a trainload of cattle ? ''
uh huh . ''
the quiet man with the gray eyes had said nothing up to then , but he had been looking around .
wheres the other one ? ''
he asked .
the big black man ? ''
i havent seen him , '' i said .
only once since we left jail .
he was heading for club exotica an a drink . ''
i grinned at them .
i figured id no business going back there . ''
they just looked at me , and then the quiet man said , dont cover for him guys .
he isnt worth it .
hes a murderer . ''
i wouldnt know but you had him in jail , why didnt you keep him ? ''
the sheriff spoke , because we didnt know who he were .
and like damn fools we let him go .
then hilmore here , '' he looked in hilmores direction and grinned , and got to thinking about an old reward poster .
theres a reward on that man , dead or alive .
hes wanted for murder . ''
jaquan , he never even looked at me the whole time .
how much is the reward ? ''
i questioned , wanting to know .
you dont see much working for 4,000 a month and i found it was a lucky thing when i put forty five thousand dollars into a bank .
hilmore looked at me .
whats your name ? ''
mussolini , i said .
barns mussolini .
in some places they call me pacino . ''
pacino . ''
me , i grinned at him .
maybe because i swing too quick .
i got a dangerous temper when im riled , but it isnt always that .
i never had much fun , except for fighting . ''
i can believe it , '' the sheriff said , and i saw quri zainuddin afterwards . ''
they poked around a little , and started off down toward the stream bed .
only hilmore , lingered behind .
he kicked at the ground were karl kellen had sat .
one hundred thousand dollars reward , is a lot of money , '' hilmore said .
mister , i seen that guy in jail and i didnt like him , but i never sold anybody out , an i am not about to start . ''
i kind of thought youd be that way , '' hilmore said quietly .
and added , but dont tangle with that man .
you leave him to us , hes bad news . ''
you been east ? ''
i asked .
a time or two , '' he said .
and maybe again . ''
then he walked on off after the others and we said nothing , jaquan vessey and me , watching them go .
finally jaquan picked up sticks an added them to the fire .
murder .
thats bad .
i wonder who he murdered ? ''
jaquan asked .
hes full of vengeance and rage .
i could see it in him . ''
then i looked at jaquan .
are you going any place in particular ?
if youre not , come with me .
two can starve as free as one .
and if i get a driving job , ill speak for you . ''
i thank you kindly , '' he said .
chapter two the fire was warm , the wind had gone down , and the rain had about stopped .
there were still the sound of big drops falling off of the trestle .
for a long time we sat quiet , and i were wishing i could catch some shut eye , but little time remained if we were going to catch a nap .
i kept squatting there thinking about how i wished there were a fucking empty on that train .
i never enjoyed riding freights unless there were an empty freight car .
were partners pacino ? ''
jaquan vessey asked .
why not ? ''
i questioned .
and then the train whistled far off in the distance .
we got up and jaquan kicked out the fire mostly and then scooped water from the creek with an old can and poured it on what was left to put out .
then we strolled to the trestle together .
the train slowed up along here with a good grade ahead , an a man could catch it moving .
can you make it toting that fucking thing ? ''
why not ? ''
we let a dozen freight cars go by and then jaquan saw an open door as it passed a red light on a switch and called out to me .
he was a fast man making the run easy and swinging up and he caught my gear for me as i swung it at the open freight car .
me , i caught the edge of the floor and hauled myself off the ground .
long after , jaquan had rolled up in some paper he found at one end of the car .
i sat there by the open door looking out at the country .
here and there we passed by lonely farms with lights on in the windows .
one time there were a man walking toward a house with a lantern on a pail , and a dog barking at the train .
crop farmers , '' i sneered .
home guards . ''
but away down inside , i wasnt sneering at all .
that man was going into his own home to sit down to his supper at his own table with his kinfolk around him .
and me , all i had were a lonesome whistle sound as the train bent around a curve , the distant glow of the firebox , and somewhere down the train , a flea bitten cow pony , on a chuck wagon for home .
chapter three when i woke up , it was daylight , and the train was bumping along its train tracks at a good pace .
walking to the door , i could see patches of woods , a stream and miles of wheat fields whizzing by .
jaquan sat up straight an asked , is that right what you said ?
were partners ? ''
sure , partner . ''
where are we going ? ''
i dunno .
maybe elizabeth jersey . ''
i could eat .
boy could i eat . ''
you and me both , '' i said .
have you been driving rigs for a long time ? ''
yep .
ever since i was old enough .
worked along with my brother until he was killed .
then on my own for the big ridges corp. '' my brother , finally one time he braced a town marshall . ''
the train were slowing a little .
leaning out of the door , i could see the long sweep of the cars ahead as they rounded a curve and started up a steep grade .
the marshal told him to pull over and sleep it off .
but sidney , he just went ahead and dragged on . ''
you seen it ? ''
sure .
that marshall , he walked over and looked at the body , and then he looked up at me , and he said , man , id no choice .
i hope you dont hold that against me . ''
i blamed that marshall .
sometimes afterwards , that marshall met a bullet .
and lets just say it had his name on it for my brothers death . ''
we sat down in the boxcar door and dangled our legs .
the sun was warm and pleasant .
you could smell coal smoke from the engine and that hot dry smell you get from ripening grain fields .
theyd be shoving wheat in no time at all , but i had my fill of that , even though it paid much as driving rigs .
i never hunted no kind of work a man couldnt do from the back of a truck .
were coming to a town , '' jaquan said .
are we ?
yep , '' answering my own question .
it seems to me you could get you a path .
i mean to say , on a railroad , they tell me when a man ships cattle or rides with cattle , the railroad will give him a path back home . ''
you heard it right .
only i didnt take to that new clerk back in chicago .
the one i used to know , he was aright .
that ones holding his nuts at a man haten .
and nobody does that to barn mussolini . ''
suddenly footsteps drummed on the freight car top and then a face leaned over above head , looking apake .
it was karl kellen .
he turned around , lowered his feet , then his full length , and swinging by his hands he swung in and dropped to the floor in the freight car besides us .
you could get killed that way , '' i said .
he chuckled , my numbers not up . ''
there was a hard reckless light in his eyes that i did not like .
perhaps because they were also lighted with contempt .
the way i figured it , a man has no right to hold anybody or anything in contempt .
especially the odds .
from time to time , id seen a few men die .
an i couldnt bring myself to think there was any special providence looking out for any of us .
too me , we work out our destinies subject to a lot of accidents , incidents , and whim .
the men i have viewed die , died mostly because they were in the wrong place at the wrong time , either they really deserved it .
and the kind of men they were mattered none in the least .
the good went easily as the bad .
the brave as quickly as the cowards .
as for me , i did what i had to do , what i believed i ought to do , and tried not to take any unnecessary chances .
there and there , id seen more than one man die showing how brave he was or doing something he was dared to do which didnt make sense anyway any which way you looked at it .
those police back there , they asked about me ? ''
karl asked us .
you know they asked about you karl . ''
what did they say ? ''
nothing much .
only they seemed anxious to put them handcuffs on you .
if i were you , '' i said , i would stay away from few places .
and were coming into town now . ''
you call that a town ? ''
karl asked .
thats nothing but a wide spot in the road .
the clowns in a place like that wont worry me . ''
the town clowns .
i heard that term given to the constable or marshall in those little towns .
his likes is a good enough sort if you give him a chance and often further we stayed away from clan vine graveyards , they were filled with his type .
they dont bother me .
im packing the difference , '' karl said .
why do all those would be toughs talk like echoes of each other ?
how many times have i heard much talk an each one of them like animals in their hideouts , coming out every once in a while emphasizing about what they plan to do ?
and then like the reurp seater gang , they run into a bunch of gangs , small town hoodlums and get shot to rag dolls .
that gun your packing is the handle that will open a grave for you on clan vine , '' i told him .
jaquan vessey got up .
pacino lets unload and hunt us some grub . ''
karl kellen chuckled .
you guys on your uppers .
dont be damn fools .
stick with me and youll be rolling in money . ''
youre riding the same train we are , '' i said .
an ugly light came into his eyes .
what im doing here is my own business and business is good . ''
he then brought a stone of crystal meth amphetamine from his pocket .
how about that ? ''
jaquan , theres a house with a woodpile and two axes , '' i said .
lets you and me see if we can earn our breakfast . ''
jaquan dropped to the roadbed , ran a few steps , then he walked back to meet me .
i tossed my gear out into the weeds and dropped off towards the ground myself .
the last i heard , karl killeen saying , a couple of finks !
just plain bums ! ''
i dont like that man , '' jaquan said .
jaquan waited by the woodpile while i walked up to the house and knocked on the door .
a skinny irish woman looked at jaquan and then at my sack .
whats in it ? ''
she asked .
my gear maam .
im a rider .
but right this minute , im riding a two day hunger .
theres a pair of axes and we were wondering if we could earn a meal . ''
well now , youre a couple of lads .
you heft those axes awhile and ill be making up my mind . ''
wed worked a few minutes when she came to the door .
come off it now ! ''
she called .
pat will be home for his supper and if he found me making you work for a meal , hed take the stick to me . ''
she brought two big plates piled high with ham hocks , mashed potatoes , corn on the cob , and seated them down on the stoop .
if thats not enough , knock on the door .
himself is a healthy eater .
and i know hell make way with twice the lot . ''
chapter four we sat down by the food , and she placed a pitcher of cold ice tea beside us and went back inside .
theres good people wherever you go , '' jaquan said .
she didnt even comment that i was a black man . ''
could be she didnt notice , '' i said .
if her pat was a healthy eater , wed no idea of putting the man to shame , so after a bit , we knocked on the door and she filled our plates again , then brought us a sack to the door .
it were a potato sack , and packed to the top .
heres a bit to take along .
and theres a mile of coffee there if you can find something to make it in . ''
thank you maam .
thank you indeed , '' i said .
obliged , '' said jaquan .
its been said that hobs mark the gates of houses where theyll be fed .
is it true then ? ''
maam , ive no idea .
i shall remember this place as the home of the fairest flower of the land .
youre the picture of loveliness , maam . ''
oh , go on with you .
youve had your bait .
now take yourselves on . ''
we slept the night in another empty boxcar listening to the creaking of the car as it rounded curves , the bumping as the train rolled over the tracks .
we had seen no more of karl kellen and i were sure he had left the town before us and i was pleased at that .
where do we stop next ? ''
jaquan asked , and then said , i have ever ridden the train hitchhiking before . ''
pennsylvania , i guess .
if we can pick up a meal there , we can ride out to new jersey with a little tightening of the belt . ''
thats a fair piece , '' jaquan objected , and im a man that likes to eat . ''
the train rumbled along accompanied by whistles and then as it neared some road crossing .
the country we were passing through were broken into wheat fields , miles of them .
and sometimes there were stretches of pastureland .
it was a glaciated region of rolling prairies with occasional low hills and small lakes or sloughs , their fringes lined with cat tails .
the only trees were those along the streams , or freshly planted ones near farmhouses or villages .
when the freight slowed down before coming into the station at pennsylvania , we dropped off and headed for main street .
this was my second time in town in a moment and i saw that it had changed some .
i came riding in home on the first train over the road .
the big ridges corp had driven some auto parts from texas to boulder colorado , then shipped them to arkansas and id gone along .
the boss decided to have a look at pennsylvania , so he rode that first train east with a couple of hands .
he took me along to feed the stock .
nothing much here then , i reckon , '' jaquan commented .
isnt much now .
mostly tents then , '' i said .
now they got hotels and much more . ''
it was in my mind to look around for a man i had known as a kid in fargo in the timber .
back in those days , that were the roughest place a man could find an it stayed rough until the gradayne guys cleaned it out .
track bier had killed three of the guys before they moved in to get him .
this friend of mine were one of the bio ridges corp riders who decided to stay in chicago , like i did , and we stayed in illinois .
there were a fargo in the missouri too .
but that was mostly descent folks , but not so exciting to me as fargo in illinois .
this man i knew , he were wise enough to decide we should leave illinois after track bier killed those guys .
he had known the seventh calvary down in kansas , and they werent likely to stand by then after some of their click had been killed .
we had nothing to do with it , but my friend taught me a good lesson then .
its the innocent bystanders who get hurt , '' he told me .
so we went north to the end of the coast toward new jersey .
it was built in a city where the river flowed into the atlantic ocean .
and there were a few guys stationed there when we first came .
now there were no uniforms about and small as the place were , it looked prosperous .
if we find this friend of yours , will he put us on some work ? ''
jaquan asked .
thats my guess .
and if hes around , i know how to find him .
ill hunt up a drug store .
hobes izumi could never pass up a drug store .
i ever knew a man who had so many ailments .
he told me he never knew how sick he was until he were snowed in one winter with a home medical adviser , and read it cover to cover .
if it hadnt been for that book , he might have lived a long life in bad health without knowing it . ''
chapter five we found a drug store , and while jaquan watched my back pack on the street , i went in the store .
im hunting a man named hobes izumi , '' i said .
if there were more like him , i wouldnt need anybody else for customers .
hes the strongest dying man i ever learned .
but youve come too late .
he went towards utah , i think , '' said the druggist .
just my luck , '' i said .
the man came from behind the counter .
you might learn something from jarez claymount .
he handles hobes local business . ''
last time i seen him he were hustling hoodlums .
we hustled the same turf and hoodlums . ''
that must have been several years ago .
mr. izumi has been shipping and trading in manufacturing parts .
hes done very well , i believe . ''
we found the son of a bitch jarez loafing in front of a saloon .
and when i told him i was hunting hobes izumi , he got up carefully and looked me over , and then looked jaquan over too .
just what do you want with him ?
the jarez was carrying a gun tucked in the back of his belt under his coat .
a rough guess told me that jarez claymount was a pretty salty character and if izumi was trading in manufacturing parts , they must have some fancy work for brands .
come to think of it , hobes izumi used to talk about he could hustle and move something with the best of them .
so i began to understand some of the phases of his business .
as a matter of fact , i was hunting a road stake .
me and jaquan here , were broke and headed for new jersey .
hobes was an old friend of mine .
in fact , we came to chicago together . ''
what did you say your name was ? ''
jarez asked .
mussolini .
they call me pacino . ''
well his face cleared right up .
he had been looking mighty suspicious until then .
oh sure , ive heard him speak of you , '' jarez said .
jarez claymount ran his hand down into his jean pockets and came up with an address and phone number .
you take this .
you may find him there , '' he said .
this is where ill find him ? ''
well , he moves around a good deal .
dont you go asking for him .
if you want to see him , look around new jersey .
you stay around a while and hell find you . ''
when we walked away from there , jaquan looked at the address and phone number with respect .
you got some good friends , '' he said .
me , i said to myself , it may be a trap because i was wondering why jarez was so quick to hand a phone number and address and said he could be found there , maybe , but the way i remembered him he was mighty on the move .
of course that could have been because he was on the run much .
maybe he was doing better now .
if he could afford having a man living around pennsylvania like jarez was , well , he was doing a lot better .
but why ship from here ?
why not from jersey itself ?
chapter six we had ourselves a meal and when we came out of the restaurant , a man was standing on the curb , hello mussolini , '' he said .
it was that man hilmore that we last seen a couple of hundred miles east .
i figured you will settle in east dakota with a town named for you , '' i said .
it wasnt named for me '' he took some cigars from his pocket and offered them .
smoke ? ''
it was a good cigar .
he lit one himself and we all lit up .
then he said , youre living good . ''
we got a right . ''
i was wondering why , how somebody , you could go on like that ? ''
look man , you looking to fucking start something , you keep on with that big nose into my business . ''
he chuckled , you may have the best of me there .
i cant break yours .
somebody beat me to it . ''
well , what could i do but laugh ?
my nose had been broken a couple of times .
the hell with it .
you following us ? ''
no .
just going east .
have you seen any more of karl kellen ? ''
hilmore asked .
odd thing , id been so busy thinking about hobes izumi , that i had forgotten all about karl kellen .
when i didnt say anything , hilmore glanced at his cigar and commented , mussolini , you strike me as an honest man .
maybe a hard one to get along with , but an honest one .
so i dont want you to get in some of the bullshit floating around . ''
i been up the creek .
most ways i knew my way around , '' i said .
all right . ''
he held out his hand and said , guys , my name is price hilmore .
call me price .
and if you ever want to talk about things , or if theres anything i can do , call me . ''
we walked away and left the end of city were we would catch our freight going out .
jaquan said to me , hes a rebel , pacino .
thats a rebel man . ''
an it made a lot of sense .
but who was he after ?
karl kellen ?
they had said karl kellen was wanted for murder .
that karl kellen , maybe he murdered a rebel , '' said jaquan .
we dropped off the freight before it reached new jersey station and walked up pacific avenue .
this heres a living city , '' i said to jaquan .
but before after a few steps , i amended that .
now , i better back off on that , for i should say this here is a stock town , theres folks around who favor sheep . ''
we turned off and went past the cat houses to main and kept on to zians coupe .
a couple of hat x timers were hanging out in front of the bar and one of them , seeing me packing that gear , commented , now look here , first time i ever seen pacino when he had the saddle in the right place . ''
least i chase steers .
they dont chase me . ''
dropping the gear to the boardwalk , i dug into my pocket for the stub end of the cigar hilmore had given me .
they eyed me while i put some fire to the ash end of the cigar , making a great deal of it to impress them with my presence .
i and jaquan , '' i jerked my head to indicate my partner , are hunting a business connection where we can invest . ''
you might try the kloaks , '' one of the guys said , looking wickedly .
they always seemed ready to take you on . ''
you cant spread the word , '' i said solemnly , those kloaks are safe .
im a reformed man . ''
now theyll be mighty relieved to hear you said that , '' the other guys commented dryly .
shalhoup cleveland was around last night , saying how dull it was with you out of city and there were nobody around to turn to a bloody pulp .
he was drunk .
and remembered that fight from ages ago . ''
he was the better of me once in a fight .
but he didnt mention i beat his ass when i sobered , did he ? ''
no .
you stick around .
you can have your chance tonight . ''
hes still around over at bret roundtrees ? ''
they exchanged a glanced .
you surely been gone .
roundtree left out of here one night by special invite . ''
that was news , but not expected .
roundtrees had been a long time hangout for the wild bunch .
if anything was going on , you could hear it over at roundtree , if they knew you .
big nose george and his crowd hung out there when they were in the city and come to think of it , hobes izumi had a few friends in that getup .
but when i started to ask about hobes , something wanted me to hold off .
hobes and me , wed been friends , but never partners , partners .
we went into zians and i led the way to the store .
zian always kept a big pot of mulligan stew going on the stove , and you could help yourself .
jaquan and i couldnt afford to pass up a social invitation of that sort .
that shalhoup cleveland , did he beat your ass ? ''
jaquan asked .
i was off guard .
an i was a little drunk .
hes big and hes fast .
but when i sobered , i beat his ass !
because when a man whoops me once , he got ta whoop , me until i beat his ass and win .
that fight happened ages ago . ''
what did you get to fighting about ? ''
well , i just looked at jaquan plainly surprised .
he pissed me off .
and hes pissing me off now . ''
you gon na fight him again ? ''
im sober now .
im gon na beat his ass again . ''
jaquan said , we can box some . ''
chapter seven we ate for a while without talking and then jaquan went on , i boxed forty seven times in the ring for money .
i boxed divan nakato before he was champion .
an i boxed zimmer over in england .
i boxed masello henly , brian grin , and damian cereme . ''
little as i knew about prize fighting , id read the fighting edge enough to know who they were and they were the best .
i might be able to pick up a few moves from you , '' i said .
ill go rustle some mitts , '' jaquan said .
chapter eight there was no sign of hobes izumi in newark or in new jersey , although i covered the whole of it .
most of the time i listened and what i heard didnt make me feel any better .
it was less what i heard than what i didnt hear .
there were suddenly a lot of suspicious folks around town and a lot that wasnt being said .
a stranger coming to new jersey would see the dusty main street with a row of false fronted frame buildings along either side .
the signs mostly extended from the buildings to supporting posts on the edge of the board buildings to supporting posts on the edge of the boardwalk .
usually one of the diamond r guys was standing in the street .
a man looking along that street would believe there wasnt much to it , but he would be wrong .
in my time id been a sight of places and id call new jersey a big state , big in the outlook of most of the folks who lived here .
they had police here , but nobody paid them much mind .
i mean , when trouble came nobody thought of going to the police about it , you handled it yourself .
if somebody made trouble in the city , usually the police will haul them in and theyll be bribed .
times where changing and there were new faces around , the neighborhood were cleaning and the government were toughening .
the big pushers were loosing money and they didnt like it .
and that meant they would do something about it when they got to the point where they decided some action was called for an i had a hunch that time had come .
as we were going along the street , jaquan said to me , you ought to get you a gig of your own , pacino .
a man will never get anywhere working for the next fellow . ''
a hide out and an apartment .
its been ages ago when i had a gambling house .
i started the gambling house from a few licks .
the cops heard of the gambling house and raided it . ''
you were something .
you need another place of your own .
on one of them streets you been mentioning of . ''
trouble is i said , those vultures every damn where on most of those and they wake you any night and loot at day and night . ''
you need to save your money and get yourself a front , '' jaquan insisted .
a front ? ''
somebody to give you some work , either some bread , and then get yourself some clothes , get yourself some new shoes , keep them polished , get yourself a new hat .
maybe a suit .
you look like money , money will come to you . ''
a man i knew once , he figured that .
then got way over his head and they found him dead , hanging .
he owed folks and he robbed folks to get it .
and they werent too kindly either when they got to him . ''
hung him ? ''
everybody began to wonder where the man got the money from .
they brought him to the bridge , wrapped a rope around his neck and lynched mobbed him .
he fought like hell . ''
what you need to do is put the pistol to them , '' said jaquan .
arm robbery . ''
arm robbery and murder them for the money .
put the pistol to them and cut the bullshit and get the money quicker than selling something and be done with it and get a large quantity of money at one moment .
and then if the money isnt enough after that , we put the pistol to them again once more . ''
chapter nine i found that grandvillemcnamara , who owned one of the biggest operations in new jersey , was in town .
he stopped me on the street and offered me a job .
but the gig was that id be holed up all winter in an area with vein strychnine .
there wasnt a better man on the earth .
he was a sharp shooter , trapper , hunter , hustler , hell raiser an one of the best rumblers you ever known .
thing about him , he had a bad temper and was quick to fly off the handle .
wed wind up killing each other .
there were a hundred stories about him .
one time grandvilletackled a group of italians with a clubbed rifle .
they figured nobody but a crazy man would do that , an afterwards they left him alone .
another time a bullet hit him in the face and he rode for a doctor , but his jaw was broken an it pained him so much he just reached in and tore out a chunk of jawbone so big it had two teeth in it .
that marked him forever .
i never did hear whether tearing that piece of jawbone out made the pain any better .
me and jaquan finally went back to zian and hit that stewpot again .
we got there early and zian looked over at us and said , you fucked up , arent you pacino ? ''
we can sleep over to the moat and eat here until you throw us out .
soon as we find some work , well be riding out of here . ''
zian stood there quiet for a moment and then he said , pacino , im going to put you onto something you may not thank me for .
johnny santini needs two men for his click in the camden area . ''
then he said , you guys step up to the bar . ''
we were alone in the place , but i guess he didnt want to talk too loud .
he filled a couple of cups with cognac and shoved them towards us .
he leaned his forearms on the bar .
pacino , this here country is walking wide open into trouble and you will be a fool not to see it .
and that trouble may bust loose right in camden .
thats why the jobs open . ''
well , i looked around at jaquan .
what do you say man ?
its going to be a cold winter and a man doesnt have to hunt for a living there . ''
i have been in trouble most of my life .
this time , im not going to be by myself . ''
zian , you tell johnny santini , hes caught himself a couple of live ones .
well go . ''
we finished our cognac and headed for the door .
just then , it opened wide and a man filled the open space with his shoulders .
it was shalhoup cleveland .
shalhoup was a diamond r and a tough hand .
whats up ?
if it isnt the heavyweight ? ''
shalhoup mocked .
five ten and weighting one seventy .
but alongside his two hundred and forty pounds and his six feet four inches , i might be considered a midget .
the room was filling up and i could see they had been egging on him anxious for a fight .
well , i hadnt had no fun since the night they pitched me out of that honky tonk back in chicago .
and tomorrow , i will be headed for the breaks along camden .
shalhoup , how tall are you ? ''
i asked .
six feet four inches in my socks , '' shalhoup answered .
i didnt know they piled it that high , '' i said .
then i hit him .
when shalhoup cleveland opened his eyes , the sun struck right into them , but it were that city noise , jouncing in the road that woke him .
it took a minute or two to realize where he were and when he did , he didnt like it .
there he were , lying on his back on the bare concrete of the sidewalk with boxes and garbage all around him , and his head felt like it had been pounded by a sledge hammer .
theres nothing like lying on a sidewalk when people are walking around you .
when he started to rise , he wished he had another idea .
a shot of pain took him in the side and when he grabbed at a passerbys hand , he fell back on the concrete .
that cleveland from the diamond r , you did the son of a bitch to him and knocked him out cold . ''
damn right jaquan , i beat his ass ! ''
whatever you done , he shrugged it off and counter attacked .
he knocked you down and up to that time .
after that , you set out to pain him . ''
jaquan drew up the team in the shade of a house .
i was about to wake you after that fight , then i thought otherwise .
you needed your rest .
mr. johnny santini sent a car for us to conduct business .
i dont know the neighborhood .
mr. santini , he just pointed me this way , '' said jaquan .
jaquan had a cloth and a fifth of gin in his hand .
and i took a few gulps and then wiped my face with the cloth .
the gin burned my throat .
mr. santini said he wanted me to take you to the edge of the city .
the informant will be waiting there .
and he didnt want anybody to know where we were going . ''
that didnt sound like johnny santini , but a lot of things had happened since id been away .
jaquan , rest your nerves .
i got to figure this out . ''
he started digging around looking for clues , but all of a sudden , he pulled up and held his breath , then said , pacino , you look at this here . ''
what he were showing me were a sk 47 and a .30 06 and boxes with 500 rounds of ammunition .
alongside the assault rifle lay two .44 caliber , both new .
and with them was a note scrawled on a piece of paper , greasy with gun oil i have been missing dope .
that was all that were scribbled on it with his initials signed to it .
but with all the guns , and coming from a subtle man like johnny santini , it seemed he must figure he were sending us into the middle of war .
you want to quit ? ''
i asked jaquan .
jaquan chuckled .
where are we going to ?
mighty soon therell be snow falling , and i never did enjoy riding in the snow . ''
we drunk up our coffee and jaquan smoked a cigarette and i dug around in my pocket for the butt of that cigar .
when i found it , it was all mashed to pieces .
but no use in throwing it away , so i put the tobacco in my mouth and chewed it , although id never been a man to chew tobacco .
from what zian had said in zians , and of johnny santini , they must believe camden was were the trouble lay , or some of it .
everybody knew johnny santini didnt play no games with you .
mighty few crossed him .
and if you did , you were a goner .
santini was a shrewd man , and he took account of conditions .
he pushed much dope in size , but on account of that , it carried more kick and high .
it were shonuff that work , that butter that fried and left no residue or film on the oozy .
now , such dope were wanted .
if he were missing dope , somebody was playing a mighty tight dangerous game .
while we rolled around the street , i puttered around cleaning the grease from the rifles and holding it up .
then i did the same for the pistols .
come dark , we pulled off the street where there was a little street that trickled down toward the coast .
we ate pizza and afterwards drunk a soda .
they tasted almighty good .
where we had stopped , there was a small patch of grass among the scattered trees and we peeped the scene then moved back under the trees and hid in the shadows .
if anybody was hunting us , well see them first with no problem .
only they werent close behind us or i would have seen them .
so if they didnt know exactly where we stopped , they might overlook us .
i grabbed the sk and sighted it and put a pistol in the crotch of my pants .
a man never knew when he had to brush off a bunch of scalp hunting hooligans .
once i were relaxed out under the trees , i started trying to figure out what johnny santini had in mind .
it seemed to me he was hoping we will get to the spot in camden without anybody knowing we were there and he wanted us ready for a fight when they did find out .
if they were that bad , jaquan and i could look for trouble , real trouble .
time enough to cross the bridge when we come to it , so i stretched my muscles on a bit and then sort of let myself relax looking at the stars through the night sky .
those earlier remarks of jaquans were beginning to nag at me .
come to think of it , i amounted fairly , so and so .
top hand in anybodys click .
but what did that mean ?
fifty grand a month if i were lucky ?
thirty if i wasnt ?
and when i got to be an old man , sailing on a private boat .
living on the shoreline either a condo in the suburbs , either a home in the mountains ?
somewhere along there i dropped off and it was coming on toward morning when my eyes fluttered open at a noise and then i were wide awoke at the blink of an eye and my hand on the trigger of the rifle .
that theres some of quirks click , '' i heard somebody whisper .
hell , quirk 's boys been over this here streets a half of a dozen times , '' another voice said .
you think hes scoping us out ? ''
wouldnt put nothing passed him . ''
i believe we should bomb first before he does . ''
i held the heavy artillery sk 47 in rage with a conscious of putting a few bullets in his brain and seeing the brain splatter from his head .
but i listened intensely as to what were a brewing .
a war from the sound of it .
they dont call him pacino for nothing . ''
there was a moment of quiet then the second voice questioned , discussed like , you going to contemplate all night ? ''
no . ''
there was a streak of dirt crunching then the sound of footsteps moving off through the grass .
i stayed in the cover of the trees and tried to remember where i heard those voices before .
after awhile , i heard a faint stir from where jaquan lay .
and i think he where awoke also .
he were waiting for them and it gave a man a good feeling to know he wasnt alone out there .
just the same as i stretched out to collect interest on a nights sleep , i couldnt help but wonder what i had gotten myself into .
winter was coming on .
when snow fell , all we had to do was sit tight and keep an eye on the shipment .
but something kept bothering me .
what would they do if they had found us ?
and we still had more nights to go before we got to another spot .
chapter ten the apartment stood on a low land just back of camden , getting in nice among the trees .
there was a house with two windows and a door .
and from the door of the house , a man could see a short distance off where folks usually posted up .
when me and jaquan drove up , cochecine neiden was standing in the doorway , and he had him a pistol right there .
you taking your time ? ''
he asked irritably .
then he gave a look around and gathered up his keys .
im getting out of here , '' and stepped out heading toward the coupe .
you aint going to drive that bucket of bolts ? ''
i asked .
hell no !
i want to get out of the city . ''
now cochecine was a long , lean of a man with a shrewd face on him .
and he was stubborn as a rusty nut with no oil .
but i had never known him to be so downright skittish before .
you look like hell , '' i said .
whats the trouble ? ''
im leaving out of here .
and if i was you , i would too .
this is the least safest city i know of . ''
and he dusted out of there .
jaquan , he took hold of some luggage .
you fixing to stay ? ''
he asked .
hell .
thats what i came for .
if you want to leave , ill not hold it against you . ''
so we unloaded the ride and moved in .
but by the time id unpacked , id done some thinking .
cochecine neiden was a good hand .
and a nervy man .
id known him too long to think hed scare easy .
and i thought that if he was so all fired to ride out of here , there was real trouble starting about , and not just talk .
this is new jersey .
and until just a few years ago , it had been the heart of the puertoricans .
there was good coverage and there was plenty of clientele and most years it was as fine a place to grind as a man could want .
if johnny santini could stick it out , he could be a rich man .
the apartment was all swept up and clean as a man could wish .
there was an iron cooking range , a mess of pots , bunks for six , some benches , a couple of chairs , and a table .
a few books and some old magazines were lying around and everything looked snug and ready for a hard winter .
there was even a stack of logs and a lot of cut firewood .
one thing i didnt like the look of , somebody had worked loose an upright split log in the back of the lean to so it was a place that could be used to go or come from the apartment .
on a sudden hunch , i went out the front door and turning around , studied the doorjamb and the heavy door itself .
jaquan watched me for a moment and then he asked , something out of the ordinary , pacino ? ''
i pulled out my belt knife and dug into the logs near the door .
took me a minute or two , but when i dug around enough , i extraverted a chunk of led .
hefting it in my hand , i noticed four or five more holes in the walls and showed jaquan the bullet in my hand .
somebody had been shooting at that door with a mighty big gun .
jaquan went over the stove and lifted the lid .
after a glance inside , he picked up a handful of wood chips and twigs from the wood box and started to kindle a fire .
you want to look around ?
hop to it .
ill cook some grub . ''
there was some noise in the streets an i had taken my pistol and walked out there .
a couple of fiends .
jaquan had come to the door .
he handed me the rifle an i went into the trees .
instead of dropping down to the crossing to see who had been using it , and how many , i circled to the back of the apartment and went up the ridge undercover of the trees .
most of the apartments and houses were run down and there was a good bit of loitering and along the bum streets within here and there .
a patch of youngsters drifting down the the road , i cut back and forth for signs lots of onlookers and several fleets of vehicles .
i started down the street not seeming suspicious , blending in .
a time or two i came on a few onlookers .
one set was two riders traveling together , cutting across city toward the west .
a bit later , coming on a set of youngsters , they were posted up .
streets were very quiet and poorly lit and that very fact bothered me .
somehow all my instinct told me the streets should be sharply lit .
turning aside , i trailed the streets for a couple of miles until the shadows were growing .
at that moment , i were headed for the spot , so i swung off .
i had learned a few things .
the rider of that vehicle had waited for some time in a small lot clearing at the head of a garage covering the scenery at the spot .
see anybody ? ''
jaquan asked .
slums . ''
jaquan fixed us a bait of grub that i never tasted the like of .
that man could really cook .
i had been throwing stuff together for so long , eating biscuits , beef , beans , and pork , that i didnt know what real grub tasted like .
when i pushed back from the table , i broke a piece of straw off the broom and used it for a toothpick .
i looked up at jaquan .
youre wasting your time , '' i said .
why cooking like that , you asked ?
at any restaurant in the city , you could order take out or dine in .
if you want to keep good hands , the best way is with good cooking , '' jaquan said .
i walked over toward the door , which was standing open , and looked out .
i didnt walk right up to that door , i stood in it and i looked out from well back in the room .
but i could see the car and three riders were in it coming towards us .
it was after sundown and i couldnt make them out of who they were , but i could see the water where it dripped around the doors as they splashed through a puddle .
company .
you take the sk and stand back there besides the window .
if it comes to shooting , you take whoevers on the left . ''
i had taken a .30 06 and stepped out with it held firm in the hollow of my arm .
with practicing by the hour getting the .30 06 into action every which way , i could throw one from the hollow of my arm into shooting position mighty fast , or the way i preferred it , the .30 06 hanging from a sling , the butt level with the top of my shoulder .
so i stepped out front and waited , watching them come up the slope to the apartment .
right away i knew these were no average niggers riding .
their clothes were better than any remuda would be likely to have , maybe one would have such a thread , but not three in a bunch .
i said as much speaking over my shoulder to jaquan .
three men suited like that if they werent hit men , likely way out here , they were likely to be a posse hunting outlaws or the outlaws themselves .
when they saw the .30 06 , they pulled up some fifty feet off , an i asked , you guys hunting somebody ? ''
you alone ? ''
one of them asked .
no , i aint alone .
i got me a .30 06 . ''
whats the matter , you expecting trouble ? ''
i was born to trouble .
never did know anything else , so im spooky .
why im so spooky , that if anybody was to come prowling around , id be apt to start shooting without asking questions . ''
were hunting . ''
when a man has been toting pistols and shooting goons since he was knee high , he doesnt have to draw pictures .
aint seen nobody meddling .
if i do , ill shoot and ask questions later . ''
one was sitting in the passenger seat and the other were sitting in the back and i wished i could see his face better .
nobody seemed to be paying much mind to the apartment so it was likely that they believed i was alone .
if they had been tipped off by somebody in town , that might seem possible , with clients and wandering mouths .
that kind of talk wont get you anywhere . ''
the speaker was a tall niggga with broad shoulders , and he carried his gun in his hand like some of the hoodlums were starting to do .
you got a long winter ahead of you , friend .
id figure on lasting until spring if i were you . ''
you know , '' i said confidentially , thats a good thought .
thats a thought that should be in all our minds .
why when i came into town and found they lynched henson and run roundtree out of town , i decided folks around new jersey were changing . ''
right then i lied right threw my teeth , but i had a hunch that i wasnt far off the track .
especially after i heard grandville mcnamara talking to nuru .
now , mcnamara being one of the wealthiest dope men in the state , and nuru being a lawman who had been one of the vigilantes who cleaned up new jersey , i figured those names would carry weight and they did .
what did you hear ? ''
well nothing .
when it comes to that , only they were talking mighty confidential and mcnarmara wanted to hire vein strychnine for some kind of a job .
and after what had happened in new jersey , i just had an idea they were setting up a new spot or a new connection . ''
i knew no such thing .
i think hes lying cermain . ''
the man who spoke was a stocky , barrel chest man .
this heres barns mussolini , and he thinks he knows it all . ''
lay off , blaricum , '' cermain said .
i could see him gather his gun with a tighter grip .
he looked over at me .
mussolini , you stay close to that apartment this fall and winter , and you might find yourself a nice road stake come spring . ''
they turned their vehicle and drove away only as they went off , blaricum in his seat said , one of these days . ''
and i asked , you want to go to war ? ''
backing into the house , i closed the door .
stay away from the windows , '' i said to jaquan .
they might come back . ''
i was thinking about those three men .
cermain oaks was a vice cript from down in the nation .
the last i heard of him , hed killed a police officer in atlantic city and was supposed to have caught out for colorado .
he was said to be a pro with a .45 .
blaricum rourke was a tough expendable who had a reputation as a shit starter .
he was said to be vicious with his hands .
he sure seemed to be sparking for trouble now .
the third man hadnt said a word , but i noticed that he was a big man , mighty big .
what did you mean about those kilos ? ''
jaquan asked .
mr. johnny santini said earlier somebodys been shorting him on the dope and he needed a few eyes and ears and to handle them .
and at the same time , i and jaquan were getting work from him .
mr. santinis words were , i never had no shortage on the dope or no ones noses in it .
an in the course of the drop off , a lot of dope were missing .
79 pounds were missing , mr. santini had said .
i stood by the stove , whipping a batch and studied about the situation .
the more i studied , the less i liked it .
aside from the police , ive done few shooting at people , and really didnt care if they died .
this here was different .
it looked like id sure enough bought myself a ticket into a shooting war .
and worst of all , id brought jaquan vessey along with me .
i kept thinking back to cap hobes .
was he mixed up in this ?
i didnt want him to be hed been my friend , and was still my friend so far as that went .
those bullet holes in the door meant somebody had been trying to run cochecine neiden out of here .
would they try that on me ?
that was a question i neednt ask .
if they would try it on cochecine neiden , who was a good hand , they would try in on me .
and i was too damned stubborn to run .
something told me i should pick up and light out , and get out of whatever i was in , but something else went against it .
id never learned to run from a damn thing .
i just bowed my back and went in swinging with both hands .
well , there was work to do if i were going to stay .
and i knew i was .
if we didnt want to be riding all over the state we best get prepared .
there was plenty of dope to push unless the feds rolled us .
those missing kilos , and i wanted the rest of them and whoever responsible d.o.a .
the chances were , it were someone with their noses dirty , or someone who wanted their pockets fatter .
and wholl jeopardize the organization and somebody who couldnt be trusted , or working with the police , or are the police themselves .
a man that picked his crew could takeover the league quite a ways easily without any hassle .
there were places he had to be careful , of course , and he would need some good hands and some good organization .
if he shipped east he wouldnt dare hold much long near the railroad .
hed have to drive them in , load up , and ship out .
of course a man could operate at deadwood and in the camps around , but that was a small operation handled by pushers close to the black hills , or in them .
all in all , i had a far idea that the missing kilos were being driven to the railroad .
when i finally dropped off to sleep that night , i was thinking of what jaquan had said .
that johnny santini never had shortage on dope .
chapter eleven when i came out of the apartment in the freshness of daybreak , it was right nippy .
it was early for frost , but you could feel the coming of it in the air .
it made a man feel glad hed a snug place to hole up in , with winter coming on and all .
one thing i could say for santini , he didnt stint any on the grub .
we had cases of tomatoes and peaches in cans , a sack of sugar , plenty of flour , beans , dried fruit , rice , some big cans of arbuckle , and cans of pork and beef .
when id kindled the stove i said to jaquan , we can take turns cooking if youre a mind to , but after you taste mine , you may feel youll like to take over .
i was never a good cook . ''
i dont care if i do .
only i want to and ill never learn how in this here apartment . ''
you got any good woman ?
make love too ? ''
never heard of love . ''
loveromancemain woman ?
or whatever youre a mind to call them . ''
i never loved . ''
so if i got shot , life is life .
but i wasnt harboring any illusions .
nothing in life had given me cause for hopefulness .
a man went ahead doing the best he could , but it always seemed there was more shit lurking just around the bend of the road .
i had seen some folks to whom it didnt make a difference , but that wasnt the way it was with me .
one time i was telling some young bucks about life on the street .
a young buck , he was a fat , comfortable guy eating three big meals a day , had a fine family , and he said to me that he wished he could live my adventurous life .
me , i just looked at him .
then said to him , if youre there on the street hustling , you should crawl out of bed on a chilly morning , suit up to the corner in sneakers , and your work , and a pistol that would take the head off somebodys shoulders and then post up .
then you should get off your work and re up before the cops get on to you .
then go buy yourself and something for your family and hustle up what you will and get out before you get addicted to the cash flow . ''
you should work yourself half dead , and come dragging up to the 24hr restaurant long after dark , eat food that you wouldnt feed your dog , and then roll up in that same cold bed . ''
jaquan i could understand .
he would get a better shake out west than almost anywhere .
he might find some folks a bit standoffish .
some people believe because a man looks different that he feels different , but out in the world , a man is judged how he does his job and stands up to the world .
me , i wasnt going to do him no favors .
if he did his job well and good , i couldnt care what or who he was or even if he had two heads , so long as both of them didnt eat .
id already seen him shape up on that trip across country and i liked the way he did things .
he was a stand up man with pride and strength .
that first day we rode out and around getting aquatinted with the community .
moving a little .
for most of that work , we were riding out twenty miles or better , but now we were just getting the cream of the crop .
as we rode , i talked to jaquan telling him what being a part of the squad was like .
winter is a time when a member if he isnt out of a job and lollygaging , is supposed to catch up on his quality time , holidays with the family .
i never got that lucky .
seems to me i always were in a category where i worked harder than ever .
now santini put us out here to find out where hes been missing dope and to bring in as much money through the winter .
and as much as we can .
mainly well have to keep warm and gloves and barrel fires to warm our hands .
you scatter newspapers and wood in the barrels and a few pieces of firewood keeps a long barrel fire . ''
jaquan was listening as i went on talking .
the ground here is mostly firburish and dirt .
and theres nothing like the concrete .
itll stand a lot of grip and track shun .
if you can get to the grass , it will do all right when dumping the work and running from the cops , even in the winter . ''
first we will start across town , day and night moving work closer to the apartment .
theres many vehicles we use so we wont be recognizable so easily .
pay attention to the scenery .
we may need to bail out . ''
but most of all , you never stop looking .
you look for old faces and new faces .
you look for junkies , and you will look for solicitors .
you will look for anything different or out of the ordinary , for strange activity , lights on all night , vehicles with occupants , out of state license plates .
left to themselves , no one would notice or walk far to suspicious vehicles they duck around here and yonder , or they will lye down in the vehicle .
if they move and drive off , they are suspicious .
if not , they are simply another drunk sleeping a drunkenness off . ''
all the time i talked , i was busy looking .
there was a junkie blazing a pipe , i could tell because i seen his stem and him rubbing his stem in his hands to cool it off .
crack heads do that to cool the stem , then push it for another blast .
if any crack head didnt have a stem , an oozy , the crack head who had the oozy is going to want a hit , a blast , for using their oozy .
and if they didnt want to use somebodys elses oozy and let them get a hit of the dope , they will use a soda can and poke holes in it and use that to smoke the dope .
it was long after dark when we got back to the apartment .
and we came up on it mighty slow and careful .
but everything was as it should be when we left the apartment .
after i took inventory and counted the cash , i looked around a bit .
not that i was looking for anything special .
i simply wanted to get the feel of things after nightfall .
everything has a way of looking different at night .
so i walked around sizing up the layout from all angles studying the outlines of things against the sky testing the night smells .
something about those smells worried me .
there was the smell of stale air , exhaust fumes , smoke ... but there was another faint , hardly noticeable smell .
whatever it was brought a feeling of loneliness almost of homesickness , and that i couldnt figure .
id had no home that really felt a home in so many years that i for the next five days we had time to think of anything and anybody .
we worked the state west toward camden , and north as far as hopatconge , far point pleasant , toward wildwood .
it was early for snow .
jaquan was a rider no question about that .
and he was a fair hand with a pistol , so it took him no time at all to get the hang of it .
of course know the turf comes with experience , and no man is going to get that overnight , but i told him what i could and the rest , hell have to learn .
the clientele were in good shape , although it could pick up .
we found no trouble that day except the few junkies who were short .
along in the late afternoon we pulled up on a ridge near the head of trenton and looked down the delaware river .
its a booming spot , '' jaquan said softly .
it is that , '' i agreed .
the bright glare was gone , the shadows softening the distance and the coolness of evening was coming on .
far off a sex fiend approached a hooker soon he will be going on with her somewhere and getting it on .
i saw a stray cat sloping along through the trees , head down , nose reaching out for the scent of game .
we stood motionless and patient , just taking in the money of the evening time .
finally jaquan said , it was no wonder they fought for it . ''
yeah , '' i said .
and they fought too .
not many could beat out the sioux or a cheyenne for the spot when it came right down to it .
we turned our hides of the rise and headed toward the apartment .
out here , a man gets away with murder .
i mean , out here , theres money , '' jaquan said .
tons if it , '' i said , and many chances .
but a man cant get all money .
you can get rich , but you cant be a dead man and rich .
money makes the world go round and so does pussy . ''
yet what he said worried non at my mind .
was that why i was here ?
was i afraid of something ?
not being rich ?
i wasnt sure about that .
even when i thought about it , it sounds ridiculous .
afraid of not being rich .
ha !
more and more i thought about it , its absurd .
we just plain kept getting money with no angry thoughts towards nobodyunless a man tried to arm rob or disrespected .
odd thingi had a whale of a temper , but i couldnt remember when id been mad to remember to kill em .
maybe what i was afraid of and avoiding was the need to try and better myself , and really better myself .
that had never seemed so all fired important .
id heard a lot of talk about success , but i never seen a successful person , what people called successful , who was happy as if happy .
jaquan had a way of starting me to thinking like when he said , a man gets away with murder .
well , he was right .
a man gets away with murder .
and there was money .
i had a plan .
get money .
i knew street conditions , and had learned a lot from the men i worked for and some of them could have learned a lot from me .
bullshit is what theyll say when its really just to talk you out of doing something or going for something .
if a man said something was bullshit , hes a liar .
it was time these days to start establishing another spot .
not to thinking of so much of owning many spots , but of owning good spots and quality work .
the old days on the streets were gone .
a man needed less negative now .
what thought were positive were negative to others .
needed a disguise , the best in the world .
but who were bonkers , me or them ?
quality were better than quantity .
a man could hustle quantity , but a man needed to work much longer for the amount compared to quality , because the clientele wanted quality .
the steady regulars will accept quantity or quality , because they were regulars .
it was thoughts like these that were in my mind as we rode back , but a gunshot broke in upon them .
theres a lonesome sound to a gun shot in the evening .
it sounds then sorts of echoes away and die off somewhere against the hills .
we both drew up and stood there listening to it dying out .
that was close by , '' jaquan said .
they werent shooting at us neither , '' i said .
no answering shot sounded .
we listened for a minute or two and then we started down the road .
riding slowly for we didnt know what might lay before us .
it might have been some junkie murdered , '' i said .
and jaquan agreed , but neither of us believed .
from that moment , i think we were sure of what had happened .
somebody , though we didnt know who , had been killed .
and that somebody had been shot from ambush .
reaching down , i slicked my pistol from its place .
and afterward jaquan did the same .
we rode carefully down the road ready for what might await us .
during the last few days , i felt a change taking place within myself .
not that it was unfamiliar , for id experienced it once before , a long time ago , and i knew it was something that happened when danger impends .
all my senses , every part of me was becoming more alert , more watchful , and more careful .
where before i might have hurried , might have brushed by a lot of things .
now i was listening , i was watching , and every bit of me was wary of danger .
part of it was the warning from santini from zian back in new jersey , and from cermain oaks at his spot .
but it was more than that .
what alerted me , what changed me , and well i knew it , was a feeling of death and danger in the air .
i was never the contemplative type .
i knew how to get somewhere , and a few other things any guy needs to know to get by , but of course any guy out in the world , or a solicitor , a junkie , a pusher , orphan , a pimp , any one of them is likely to become thoughtful .
and sometimes ive wondered if danger doesnt actually have an almost physical effect on the atmosphere .
ive little to explain such on idea .
im a man with few words , and most of those picked up in reading whatever came to hand and listening .
theres times when the air seems to fairly prickle with danger .
this here was one of those times .
the apartment buildings were black now except on the far side where the last of the sun was tipping them with fire .
the grass was taller moving a mite in the wind , but everything else was still , and we rode in silence .
we could hear the engine twining as it moved through the street and glass shattered .
every second we looked for a gun shot , but we heard nothing , saw no one .
only pedestrians lurking around , only the sky darkening overhead .
and then we saw a man standing head down , gazing .
the dead man lay close by .
the wind ruffled his shirt and touched the edge of his silk handkerchief .
there was no need to get down , for i knew him at once .
aileen enrique had been a good hand repping for an organization from over toward ekalaka when id last seen him .
the bullet had gone in under his left shoulder blade and ripped out the pocket of his shirt .
from the angle of the shot and the place it hit , i judged he had been shot from fairly close up .
he had been a man of integrity and he still was lying there with the dark curls ruffling in the wind .
he had folks somewhere back east , i recalled .
we werent talking much when we got back to the apartment , and we didnt ride up to the door until it was close to noon .
nobody in his right mind takes a mans death lightly .
and aileen enrique had been young and full of living .
it worried me , seeing him like that , but it worried me more when i scouted around , for i found the tracks of blood .
aileen had been shot in the back while running away from somebody or something , and my guess is he was shot at a range of no more than seventy feet or less .
studying out what sign i could find , it was plain enough that aileen was in a hurry wherever he figured to go or who he was running away from .
after a lifetime of reading sign , a man can see a lot more than appears on the ground .
and although i hadnt much to go on , it was my feeling that the last thing aileen enrique expected was to get shot .
he had stopped once he had walked away , maybe to say something , and then four or five steps further .
whoever had fired that shot had pulled off about as cold blooded a killing as i ever did see , nailing him with the first carefully aimed shot , and killing him dead .
there was nobody at the apartment when we got back , and no sign that anybody had been there .
neither of us felt much like talking .
standing there in the apartment pacing , i suddenly realized that jaquan and me were fairly up against it .
this was no scare .
this was the real thing , and we were facing up to trouble sure enough .
it gave a man something to think about , realizing of a sudden that he might go the way aileen enrique had .
there was a good man , a rider , a hand , an if ever , there was any , he was one .
and surely that was why he where dead .
or that was how it shaped up .
if it so happened that i was to go like aileen , there was nobody to mind , nobody that would give it a thought after a few days had passed .
chapter twelve when i went back to the apartment , jaquan was reading an old newspaper .
he looked up at me .
you think the one who killed that man was the same one whos been shooting at the door ? ''
no .
there isnt a chance of it .
the person who killed aileen wouldnt have wasted led .
he wouldve laid out and waited for that perfect shot .
and at fairly close up range . ''
jaquan , we got to face it .
were up against sure enough killers .
you see anybody riding slow , creepy and spooky , dont you turn your back , no matter what . ''
he got quiet for a spell .
and then he asked , you going to take the body in ? ''
uh huh .
and i may have to stay for an investigation .
looks to me youre going to be maybe a week or more on your own . ''
dont worry about me .
you just ride along about your business . ''
there were people standing along main street when i rode in with aileen 's body .
one of the first men i saw was grandville mcnamara , another was johnny santini .
johnny was surprised when i named the dead man .
aileen enrique .
the last i heard of aileen , he was hitting it off with some lady friend . ''
briefly i went over of how i found his dead body .
and as i talked , several men gathered around listening .
standing on the walk some distance , but within earshot , was a man who looked familiar , but i couldnt make out who he was .
mcnamara asked me a question an after i answered him , i looked around , but the man was gone .
suddenly it came to me who he looked like .
thered been something about him that made me think of karl kellen .
the next day , the investigation .
in my own mine , i was sure whoever rode in that drive by was the guilty party .
aileen enrique was obviously shot by somebody he knew and had talked with .
that he was shot down without warning at fairly close range .
one thing i didnt say were , i and jaquanll find whoever was responsible and severely end the responsible life of that drive by and visit their funerals .
one thing i did say , that i was immediately sorry for , they asked me could i identify the track of the killer if i saw it again , and i said i believe i could .
and with those words i stood myself up right in the target rack of a shooting gallery .
there were two of three strangers at the back of the room where the investigation was held , and i didnt get a good look at them .
and there was somebody else in the room who was no stranger .
price hilmore was there .
the place i got for myself was a one room hotel room , where they had a few rooms for rent .
that night , on a hunch , i shifted the bed as quietly as i could , moving it to the opposite side of the room .
no more that a cot it was , and it was no trick to just pick it up and move it .
i had pulled off my boots and was getting undressed when i thought of those strangers at the inquest , and it came to me that one of them was jarez claymount in jimtown , the man who was supposed to be hobes izumi 's representative .
if i hadnt been so hog on tired , id have gathered up and lit out for the hills right then .
id been carrying both a revolver and a .30 06 .
when i finally stretched out on the cot , i had both of them in my hand .
the night noises slowly died away .
boots sounded on the boardwalk , a door down the street slammed , then somebody tripped over a board and swore .
at last all was quiet and i drifted off to sleep .
suddenly the night exploded with gunfire and i jerked up to a sitting position , gun in hand .
even as i sat up , i heard the ugly smash of another bullet that came through the wall , and promptly i fired through the wall in return .
then there was a moment of stillness followed by a sudden uproar of voices .
in the hall angry questions were called out followed by a pounding on my door .
i swung my feet to the floor and went over an opened up the door .
the proprietor was there , and the night personnel ?
behind them crowded half a dozen people .
what happened ? ''
the night personnel guard asked .
somebody shot at me , '' i said , an i jerked up out of a sleep and fired back . ''
they walked across the room , holding a flashlight high .
two bullets had come through the thin wall , an if i hadnt moved the bed , both of them would have hit me .
you moved the bed , '' the proprietor said .
did you figure on this ? ''
the person on the other side of the room snores , '' i said , so i moved over here . ''
funny thing were , they believed me .
after they left , i moved the bed back across the room and went to sleep , but before i dozed off , i laid there thinking that maybe this was my time to see california .
somehow i always wanted to go there , and they say it can be right pleasant in the winter .
only this was , i left jaquan vessey out there at the spot , and he would need help to get through the winter .
the more i thought of it , the madder i got , and i never been one to back up from trouble .
maybe i wouldve been better off i had .
came daybreak , i went up the street to the macqueen house and ate a first rate breakfast with the works .
i was still there when johnny santini came in and sat down with me .
whats up ? ''
he asked .
i mean , hows your family ? ''
theyre breathing , '' i said .
we talked family for a few minutes and the grandville mcnamara came in and walked over to the table .
he said good morning to us and sat down .
mussolini , '' he said , there are some of us believed it is about time to make a clean up of state . ''
me , i just looked at him , although i was pretty sure i knew what was coming .
youve got the reputation of being a fighter . ''
maybe . ''
a fighter is a fighter .
i want a few good men , mussolini , and weve got a few . ''
he named a couple and when he did i looked at him and shook my head , grandville mcnamara was a fine man and a good sharpshooter , and he was on the map , but ill never put much stock in vigilantes .
im not good with a peashooter , '' i said .
and when it comes to the cleanliness , its an obliteration .
youve best to know what youre up against . ''
they arent peashooters , '' mcnamara said .
youre right in the middle of the storm , '' mcnamara said , showing his irritation .
youve got them all around you out there . ''
he paused .
you ever been shot at ? ''
looked like it , '' i agreed .
and we got to get the fuckers .
ill fight for any im riding with , an ill do as good a job as i know how , but im not a man hunter . ''
after that , they left me .
i finished my meal and ordered more coffee .
i was paying no attention to anything around me when suddenly a girl spoke to me .
well , ive been so occupied with listening to mcnamara and santini , that i hadnt noticed that girl before .
she had come in after i had and was sitting at the next table .
now i saw that she was a right pretty girl .
i beg your pardon sir .
could you tell me how to get to otter street ? ''
where ?
otter ?
thats a long stretch from here maam . ''
and then i said , and nothing out there a lady could go to . ''
i want to go to arnold dowels place . ''
she was slender , and got up mighty stylish , and she had the look of a thoroughbred are you kin ? ''
i asked .
kin ? ''
she looked puzzled , but then her face cleared .
oh yes !
he is my brother . ''
turning around in my chair , i said , carefully as i could , that isnt much of a place , maam .
i mean , dowel is doing alrightor was last i saw him , maybe a year ago .
he needs help . ''
the way she said it was matter of fact , no nonsense about it .
if i can help him , i shall . ''
and then she added , there is no one else . ''
is he expecting you ? ''
no .
i knew he would tell me not to come , so i just came anyway . ''
im going that way , maam .
i can take you out there , but i suggest you stay here in town instead , and let me ride over and tell him . ''
thats rather silly , isnt it ?
why should you make a trip there for me ?
if he needs help , that would be time lost .
an i am sure time is important to him . ''
now when a woman gets that look on her face , theres not much point in arguing with her , but i made one last attempt to get the straight of things .
did he tell you he was in trouble ? ''
no .
but from the tone of his last letter , i knew he needed help . ''
she did not have to convince me of that .
arnold dowel was a slim young irishman from the old country , a good man too .
he had been a soldier on the northwest frontier of ireland .
he had came to the united states four of five years ago .
and after looking around , had packed that site near after and stayed there .
and he had trouble .
there were a couple of them over that way that didnt take favorably to nesters of any kind .
and then there were a stream war through of young bucks who had decided he was fair game .
the khyber apparently had taught him a few things .
and the sioux lost a warrior and two with another buck wounded , before they decided to let him alone .
as for them , they had done nothing , but i knew they werent taking kindly to his staying there , and they had made the usual comments about loosing product .
such comments were occasionally based on fact , but often as not they were just preliminary to some action against the nester .
what had followed , i had no idea , for id been gone from the city for some time .
i left the girl in the restaurant and went on the sidewalk .
johnny santini was there , talking to romen bohlen .
bohlen was a big pusher , a rough , hard man , too autocratic for me to work for , although id worked beside him on round up crews .
he was a good hand , fed his organization well , paid top wages , but he was a brusque , short spoken man whom i never enjoyed .
however , he was probably the most successful pusher around and he carried a lot of weight .
he looked at me , a straight hard look .
didnt know you were a ladies man , mussolini .
who is she ? ''
sort of reluctantly , i told him , she wants to go out to her brothers place . ''
it wasnt until i said it , that i remembered bohlen had been one of the men who had said a lot about dowel .
in fact , he had done everything but flatly accuse him of rustling .
dont take her out there , '' he said .
and then that brusque way of his fired me up .
anyway , he wasnt my boss .
she asked me and im taking her , '' i said .
roman bohlens eyes turned mean .
by game , mussolini , i told you '' i heard you , '' i interrupted , and what i do is none of your damn business ! ''
for a minute there , i though he were going to take a punch at me , but he just shrugged and said , take her and be damned . ''
as i turned away i heard him say , if he worked for me santini , id fire him . ''
id pay hell getting anybody else for that spot .
and you damn well know it .
besides , hes a good man . ''
maybe .
i just wonder why hes so willing to take the job .
and he must be kind of thick with dowel to be taking that woman out there . ''
whatever was said after that i didnt hear and didnt want to hear .
i was afraid id go back and take a punch at roman bohlen .
and if i did , id have too cripple him and explain to the authorities .
bohlen was a big quirk zainuddin , but a whole lot faster , but he were no match for me .
fact was , he had whipped zainuddin a year or so back , and whipped him beautifully .
id seen the fight .
when we rode out of town , i wasnt completely thinking about the woman beside me .
i was worrying some about what roman bohlen had said about dowel .
bohlen was a good hater .
and when he made up his mind to believe something , there was no changing him .
brie dowel drew a deep breath .
oh , this air ! ''
she exclaimed .
its no wonder arnold loves it .
its such a beautiful city . ''
yes sexy , '' i said .
but i wasnt thinking about the air or the city just then .
i was thinking about her .
chapter thirteen she was slim and tall , and she had the kind of red hair they call auburn , a lot of it .
her eyes were almost violet , and there were a few freckles over her nose .
you come clear from ireland ? ''
i asked presently .
yes . ''
you must think a sight of him ? ''
hes my brother , '' she said .
then she added , although hes almost like my father .
for he always took care of me . ''
no other kinfolk ? ''
oh yes .
theres robert .
he is the oldest , but hes never been well .
he was thrown from a car when he was a boy , and hes been crippled ever since . ''
we rode on , putting the miles behind us .
she sat her rump well , and i was not surprised , for the irish have many good rumps among them and arnold was a fine hand with any kind of woman flesh too .
he had courted some bad ones , and i really mean courted .
he was not given too rough breaking them the way we did .
she was a lady , every inch of her , i could see that , and there was something clean and fine about her that made a man look twice .
you took a chance , '' i said , speaking to a stranger that way . ''
she flashed me a quick smile .
but you are not exactly a stranger , mr. mussolini .
you were pointed out to me .
and when your name was mentioned , i remembered my brother had written about you . ''
who pointed me out ? ''
she hesitated briefly , and then said , it was mr .
hilmore . ''
price hilmore ? ''
i was plain astonished .
hehe worksworked for a firm our lawyer employs when our lawyer discovered i was coming to miles city .
he suggested i look him up .
mr. hilmore would have taken me himself , but he was busy .
he pointed you out as ive said . ''
we went on talking and somehow the miles elapsed away quicker that ever before .
she got me to talking about myself and i told her about jaquan and how we met and what he had advised and what i had been thinking about a place of my own .
it wont be no use though .
i aint got the cash , and aint likely to get it . ''
but you know the hustle .
couldnt you pull your connection and arrange conditions with somebody who has capitol ? ''
how would a simple rouge meet somebody like that ? ''
i asked .
but then i commenced to think about it .
all of a sudden , i was getting all sorts of ideas in my head that had never been there before , and each one make me think of others .
it was true that a lot of the biggest organizations in the state were furnished with foreign financing and managed by local ex cons and dealers .
we talked about that and she began asking questions about the city and where her brother lived and more .
and she had a way of hitting on the right question every time .
so telling her about it was easy .
first thing i knew , i was telling her what was wrong with her brothers operation and the trouble he was in with the big organizations .
most particularly , i told her about roman bohlen .
she asked about the dope gain then , and how it went .
and i explained to her the use of a gun and gave her some examples of how to hold it , aim , and fire .
whilst i was explaining this to her , it came over me how easy it would be to turn this ride into the nearest hotel and fill her with some hard dick and cum .
it looked to me as if that thoroughbred had been maintained with a good deal of care .
when the sun went down i headed into the hotel along the tongue .
when we got down , it took me only a few minutes to pull our clothes off and fuck .
i unplugged the phone before we did .
nobody was going to bother a man with a girl alone , not at this hour of the day .
if you bothered a man with his woman , you stood a good chance of getting put in a hursteven outlaws had been known to murder a man for that .
if i had a camcorder , we couldve made a dvd sex flick .
we laid in the bed talking a long time after we finished fucking .
seems theres nothing like a pretty woman to inspire a man to talk a lot .
one things for sure , i decided after we rolled in the blankets , she was learning a whole lot more about me than i was learning about ireland or her .
this woman , she was a super sucker on the head job .
and she was quick enough to make you cum in five minutes .
after the hotel , we decided to go to arnold dowels home .
that must be arnolds car . ''
brie said .
he mentioned it in a letter .
and the color of the home and the neighborhood . ''
yes sexy . ''
he said he was in some trouble . ''
not entirely .
a good part of it is because no one likes a residing nester .
what he hates is the no gooders . ''
theres a plenty .
they tarnish the neighborhood .
you get set for trouble if you figure on staying and cleaning the neighborhood . ''
she looked at me .
you ride for a big dope dealer and you dont have anything against him ? ''
no .
i like him .
he goes his own way , persistent an a good influence and he stands up for whats right .
but thats all the more reason they dont like him . ''
that sounds absurd as youre in conspiracy . ''
it aint for no , miss dowel , and id better tell you something .
in new jersey , they are fixing to set up some vigilantes , and if , when they do , roman bohlen will have his say about them and what they do .
theres nothing halfway about bohlen .
hed rather lynch two honest guys than miss one thief .
and anyway , vigilantes have a way of getting out of hand .
they start out to make the city under they control and then they carry on to settle old scores .
you tell arnold hed better stay close to home if bohlen has his say , arnold will be on the list . ''
thats absurd !
its ridiculous ! ''
tell that to bohlen . ''
chapter fourteen it was only an hour later when we rode up to the house .
arnold came to the door and stood there shading his eyes at us .
he was a wooly hair man , taller than me , lean and wiry looking .
he had a quick way of walking , a manner a man might think was nervous until you knew him better .
whatever else they might say of him , i dont think arnold dowell had a nerve in his body .
he came a couple of steps toward us as we rode to the apartment , looking as if he couldnt believe what he saw .
brie ? ''
he spoke her name in a startled , unbelieving tone .
brie . ''
she was off and running and in his arms quicker than you could say scat .
so i swung around to leave .
he looked up suddenly , pulling back from her .
mussolini dont ride off that way , and come in . ''
got to get back , '' i said .
im overdue and jaquan will be worried . ''
is that your buddy ? ''
you seen him ? ''
he was by this way . ''
he gave me an odd look .
i had no idea there were two of you over there . ''
ill be going , '' i said .
yet i held my breath .
anything i can do you must call on me . ''
i said that to her , to brie dowel .
and then i rode away .
but at the edge of the yard , i almost vomited .
my eyes were on the ground and i saw it plain as could be .
a piece of shit .
chapter fifteen the moon was bright and a cat was meowing when i splashed through the street and came up to the apartment .
there was no light in the apartment and i drew up suddenly scared .
jaquan ? ''
i called it low .
jaquan vessey ? ''
his voice came out of the darkness near the woodpile , close by but so soft i could hardly believe he was there .
man , am i glad to see you ! ''
i could sure hear the relief in his voice .
theres been trouble , trouble enough . ''
when i locked the door , i went into the apartment , where jaquan was coming and using a candle hooded by a tomato can .
i can trip the proper from under it and it snuffs the candle .
mostly i been on guard before dark , then laying out until late .
i sure enough knew why that neiden had him a back door rigged . ''
jaquan had told me there had been several shots at the door .
they had shot the stove and they had almost set the apartment a fire .
and then a few nights ago , there had been night riders .
night riders ? ''
uh huh .
a motorcycle click riding .
i guess they figured id scare , '' he chuckled .
i aint been afraid since i was young and was scared by an owl . ''
they had come the first night .
when jaquan drew the ak 47 and unloaded , he called out when they recoup hed be ready again .
at that , they really got mad and warned him to leave before i got back , or theyd fix both of us .
that didnt sound like cermain oaks or blaricum rourke .
oaks could have gone to shooting right off .
it sounded more like some of bohlens hands .
for the next few days we worked hard , staying together most of the time , separating only when necessary , and never for long .
day by day the weather grew colder .
frost came , and the leaves turned from green to slim golden candles , shimmering in the slightest breeze .
there was white frost on the meadows , and the tracks of vehicles left dark lines across the streets until the sun took the frost away .
we hustled more in , working dark to dark , up before the sun and slept until after the sun was down .
and all the time we rode with our pistols closer .
after we had a few warm days , we took some time off and cleaned the yard and the apartment .
and me and jaquan , we started boxing and he taught me a few , how to punch straight , to jab , and a crossover punch , how to work in a clinch , how to tie the other man up .
and he added a few wrestling moves , no good in a boxing ring but very good in a street fight .
that jaquan was as smooth as you ever saw .
he never seemed to hurry or take any pains .
but i took to it right from the start .
fighting was something i had always liked , and jaquan knew how to teach .
all scientific boxing is , is just a bunch of things men have learned over the years .
a straight blow is faster than a swing because its the straightest line to what youre aiming at .
and you dont punch at something , you punch through something or somebody , '' jaquan said .
our work was hard , rough , and cold , but we stayed with it .
once in a while wed take a day off , and sometimes wed box or practice for an extra hour or so .
but all the time i had an uneasy feeling that we were living in a fools paradise .
i were aching to ride over to dowels .
but i held back .
i had sense enough to know why i wanted to go , but sense enough , too , too know that such a woman as brie would never be interested in a 39 year old , even if i spoke proper grammar , which i didnt .
nobody had shot at the apartment since id got back .
everything stayed quiet , until one morning we rode out and found that during the night somebody had boarded the windows with plywood .
we better pack some ammo , '' i said to jaquan .
we going after them ? ''
we going after them , '' i said .
the sun wasnt a hour older when we rode out of there and headed north following a trail of vengeance up the street .
riding south along the street gave me time to do some thinking .
the street was enough and plain enough and it was obvious the goons wanted a turf war .
in either case , jaquan and i were likely to find ourselves in all kinds of trouble .
yet that was not what kept me studying .
i was trying to pull together all the loose threads , some of which were plain enough .
the starting point had to be price hilmore .
if he was a rebel , that would account for brie dowels lawyer knowing about him .
he had been hunting karl kellen , but the last wed seen of karl kellen was back in the next state , unless that was him i glimpsed on the street in new jersey .
that accounted for hilmore anyway .
and if he was a rebel , he might have been trying to figure where the missing dope went to .
there in jimtown , i had come across jarez claymount , and he was working for my old friend hobes izumi .
he were booming and izumi , according to what i heard , were booming .
and it had come from somewhere .
thinking back of what i knew of izumi , i decided it wouldnt surprise me none if he took some of the dope for himself .
no thief ever knows when hes well off and every one of them thinks he is going to be the one who gets away with it .
these fellows had been stealing dope and they were getting self confident .
and when a man gets over confident , he invites trouble .
he basically gets his head chopped off .
they always make light of what theyre doing , but what they never seem to realize is that there are others .
the truth alone really never will get you anywhere .
and from what the way mcnamara , santini , and bohlen were talking , i surmised the time had come .
but none of my thinking explained the drive by , although it was a hunch that drive by was somehow involved .
of that i was sure .
this was some of the finest spots in the world when the season was right .
if you had rain or good winter snows that could melt and sink in , you had gross , and a lot of it .
i began to ride a first rate hunch .
theyre headed for the delaware river and from there theyll drive across to the jersey hotel , '' i said to jaquan .
how many do you think there is ? ''
four .
maybe five .
the way i figure it , theyll hustle the work . ''
we got our guns and some clips and ammo and some grub and a nights rest before we went after them .
what were on my mind and what tingled me were the killing of aileen enrique .
and brie dowels face stayed with me .
some man was going to be mighty lucky to get her .
thinking about that , i took myself to bed .
we cut out before sun up , riding fast toward the delaware river .
it was on my mind that they would hold up there overnight .
and be in no hurry to start out at dawn .
they would have reached the hotel and spend the night .
the hotel were a known spot and a popular spot to role out of .
you couldnt boom too long because it were a hot spot and the police would often hit it from time to time .
as the sun was topping out on the far off hills , we reached the shadows west of the delaware river .
if they were smart they would have had somebody up there on the delaware river watching their back , but by now they must feel pretty sure of themselves .
and even if they had somebody up there , i had an idea wed made it into the deeper shadows before it was light enough to see movement out on the open view .
we worked our way up the side of the delaware river , keeping under cover of the trees and the bushes as much as we could , although in places the cover was sparse .
when we topped out on the ridge we were under cover of the trees and bushes and we could see them getting off some work .
we worked our way towards them and i seen a crack head and him arguing about he didnt have enough money and he had done spent most of what he had with him and to throw him something .
pointing it out to jaquan , four others were down there also , but i couldnt tell who they might be at this distance , and that made all the difference .
theres some who will get spooked at anything suspecting and open fire and then theres some who will check into things , and at that , surprise and ambush you .
i somehow got a glimpse of blaricum rourke .
and he were trying to keep the crack head from making a scene and telling him to get on away before he blew the spot up .
and when he laid eyes on me , he was looking right into the barrel of a gun .
now , blaricum rourke was a cocky , belligerent man , but he was no damned fool .
he drew up quickly and reached for his gun .
he was a dead man .
i pulled the trigger and his head jerked from his shoulders as looking he had whiplash and his body anvil to the concrete .
jaquan opened fire on the other three and so did i .
they pulled there pistols and took for cover gunning at us .
jaquan , me , one of ours or their bullets hit the crack head in the neck and blood went to gushing outward faster than an exploding drainpipe .
the other three fired from around a building hoping to hit something .
me an jaquan did the same opening and firing behind cover .
one peeped his head around the corner as i fired at him and sparks flew from the impact of the bullet hitting the corner of the building .
another guy took off running towards the car to get away and jaquan shot him in the arm and he collapsed to the ground crawling on his knees and jaquan finished him .
me , and jaquan then shot it out until the very end .
they were gunning believe that .
a bullet whizzed by my car that i thought i were shot .
jaquan rushed over too see if i were okay .
a little bit closer and it wouldve taken my head off .
that brought a rage in jaquan and he went mad insane on gunning them down to the ground .
he took careful aim of a trained specialized marksmen , a sharpshooter , a sniper and picked the other two off one by one .
when they were dead and stinking , i looked at jaquan and asked him , did you work for a special ops for the service ? ''
jaquan said , no .
i remembered the days when i were at the arcade with the video game with the machine gun attached to it . ''
i chuckled , but there was no humor in it .
we recollected ourselves and went to see who the other three guys were .
a nigga named outlaw , his real name were clarence bipod , jerreld darden , and curtis flemming .
all three of them were handling the drop offs and shipments at one time or two .
figures , after looking at who they were .
all of them were greasy slime niggas .
we retrieved the dope where they stashed it .
and got the hell out of there before the cops came .
roman bohlen , '' i said , is going to sweep this city , and hell be carrying extra guns . ''
who rides a sedan with leather interior and hubcaps , grayish silver ?
whoever rides that car killed aileen enrique . ''
jaquan and i didnt know who rode that car no more that how god created the universe from thin air .
ice frozen on the ground that night .
there followed a pleasant a time as any .
on the second day , jaquan stayed in and bar b que steak , hamburgers , sausages , wieners , and onions and buns .
it was clear , cold , and still most of the time .
we kept holes in the snow to hide dope and some decoy holes .
we saw no cops our way looking for or halting us .
jaquan was a good lad as ever .
had this spell in my life come to me sooner , ive enjoyed it a whole lot more .
maybe it wasnt jaquan alone , for from time to time , and more often of late , id been somehow discontented .
now the idea of going back and beating the hell out of shalhoup cleveland didnt seem the way it had .
neither did the thought of holed up warm and snuggly for the winter please as much as i expected .
i kept thinking of maybe the realization of that brie dowel was just over the rise worried me too .
supposing i met a girl like that , supposing i wanted to ask her to have me , what could i offer ?
a life of hustling ?
so all the time i rode , my mind kept continuously worrying me of the idea of what to do .
from time to time , i remembered what jaquan had said of about getting rich , but that idea did take stick in my mind , and id no sooner think of it than id throw it out and think of something else .
but how else was a man to get ahead ?
late one afternoon , guess who came riding in , hobes izumi .
pacino .
i hadnt planned on coming back anyhow and now that im here , i need a favor . ''
what is it izumi , spit it out .
youve favored me a time or two . ''
well , '' come out your mouth . ''
well , its not good for me in miles city right now .
kats take notions , like you advised when i were here before .
i can go into town , and im bone dry of vegetable balsam , and if i dont get some , im likely to kill myself and die . ''
we got some gardners horse liniment .
you tried that ?
good for a man or a beast . ''
i got to have the balsam .
and i dont take anything else .
dont let them talk you into no cheap untried medicines .
i dont want nothing but dr. godbolds vegetable balsam of life . ''
we got some dr. robertsons stomach elixir .
my momma swore by it , '' jaquan said .
hobes izumi eyed him suspiciously .
i dont know .
that there balsam is the best ive seen , and nobodys tried more patient medicine than me .
isnt that correct pacino ? ''
damn correct .
you aint said shit !
back in the days , hobes had his own shelf right over his bunk .
you never did see a collection of medicines as his . ''
hell , pacino , im a sick man !
you know that .
ive always been ailing and might have died years ago if it werent for that home medical adviser i found in the spot that winter .
why , i were coasting down towards the graveyard until i learned what were wrong with me . ''
thats right , jaquan , '' i spoke seriously .
youve have thought of picturing him of a health nut , never a sick day in his life , ate enough for two men and work as hard as any man , or half as hard , we might say .
and then he found that book . ''
deceiving , thats what it is .
couldve been dead right now and you visiting my grave .
thing that saved me was calcium pills , that , and bourbon .
even so liked not made it until spring . ''
i say , nobody ever had more symptoms than me .
used to stay up some of the night studying that adviser .
i had nothing to read but that , a mail order catalogue , and a naked girl magazine next to the bed .
and at the end of the night , if nothing were popping off , bourbon and a naked girl magazine got me to sleep .
ive heard of folks talking of shakespeare , but for sheer writing , the man who wrote that adviser hat it all over him .
when he described something he were something fierce .
and he had a list of that would curl your hair . ''
izumi took a gulp of bourbon .
that shakespeare , now , a lot of people say he wrote the bible .
i think he borrowed a lot here and there .
once in a while ill come on things in his plays that i been done heard some saying for years .
all he did was write them down . ''
and for blood thunder and money !
he killed more folks in one story than was killed in a horror movie , '' izumi said .
izumi looked over at the table .
whats that i see ?
dont tell me youve got a bear sign ?
i could eat a horse and my weight . ''
do you really think you should ? ''
interrupting a bit .
youre bone dry of balsam , and ive heard bar b que is hard on your arteries . ''
hobes izumi 's hand hesitated while his poised above his appetite and lost .
the hand descended and came up with a rib .
i aint had one of these in a minute .
i think my arteries can handle it . ''
when izumi pulled off into the night carrying him a plate of bar b que , he had the bottle of dr. robertsons stomach elixir also , from years of standing on the shelf .
jaquan , he listened to the engine of a passerby vehicle until it died out .
that mans a greedy eater , '' he said .
that mans a greedy eater , '' i agreed .
however , when hobes were gathering his que , i had mentioned it in a way .
hobes , your company is welcome , but if you know anybody who might still be thinking of riding on santini , you tell them to stay clear away . ''
the first time id taken that lightly .
the second time ill come gunning .
and if i have to come again , this here and the previous ride are all the warning i needed .
well shoot to kill anybody who looks near suspicious . ''
he just grinned at me , hobes did , and then he burped .
sorry , excuse me , '' hobes said .
and then added , any word i hear , my advice will be to lay off . ''
he gave me another grin .
i wouldnt want to cut off the supply of bear sign . ''
right before i went inside , something cold and wet touched my cheek , feeling like a sprinkle of rain .
it were a snowflake .
i looked at my shoulders and at the snowflakes and the snowflakes on my sleeves .
it were starting to snow .
it were freezing cold in the morning .
inside of the spot , with a burning fire , it were cold .
youd think sometimes its warmer outside than it is inside , and vice versa in the summer .
i were bundled in a bubble coat under some blankets , and cussing because i were the first awoke .
and i stayed under the blankets trying to decide how many steps to take to cross the cold room to use the bathroom and how long to piss , and how many steps back to the warmth of my cocoon where i were and how long itll take to get to the warmth before i got up .
no use in procrastinating , so i raced to the bathroom .
in a few steps , i were across the room and in the bathroom .
the piss steamed of the cold winter .
then finished pissing and then to warmth again .
back into bed , i rubbed my hands together to feel them again , and then i piled on heavy pieces of sheets and blankets .
when i looked , jaquan grinned at me .
were figuring youd hop into bed again , '' he said .
and i cussed at him .
i looked out the window , and it were cold and the snow were at the minimum six inches deep , and steady snowing .
i saw no tracks against the snow .
i chopped a hole in the snow and stashed the dope and chopped other holes for camouflaging .
no sooner had i thought that than i asked myself whether it was necessary to do this , or whether it was an excuse to ride by the dowel place .
but all the time , i knew , necessary or not , i was going to ride over .
the ride would be long and cold , but with a good breakfast under my belt and a breakfast along with a bottle of gin , gin will make you sin , i started off , riding a route that i thought would be a good route .
it were after 7 45 when i rode away from our place , and shy of 42 45 minutes after , guessing by what i could see on my fogged steamed watch , when i topped out on the rise above dowels home .
twice i had taken a swig of gin .
the wind had started to rise , winding the snow .
i came up on the street and paused there looking for dowels home .
and then suddenly i realized that dowels apartment wasnt there anymore .
for what must have been a couple of minutes .
i sat behind the wheel starring down into the land unable to believe it .
had i made a mistake in the snow and chosen the wrong street ?
no .
what remained of the pluming were there , although covered with snow .
and the apartment was gone , no question about it .
my heart began to pound and my mouth felt dry .
without hesitating any further , i started down the street .
when i rode into the clearing i could see the snow covered ruins of the apartments foundation , and when i got down and kicked away the snow , i saw the roots of the foundation .
a section of bricks lay flat on the ground , and i knew what that meant .
it had been pulled down by a bulldozer either something plowed the complete apartment away .
and looking of a vacant land for sale .
right then i was scared .
i was scared of what i would find next .
but when i looked the place over , i found no bodies .
whatever had happened to arnold dowel and brie dowel , i had to find out .
and just then , voices .
two individuals were coming down the street opposite to the one down which i had ridden .
when they saw me , they spread apart a little , and i grabbed my pistol and looked right and left for shelter .
there was none .
i started to run for the car and get in and leave and come back around the block against the white of the new fallen snow .
true , the snow that was falling now blurred the air between us , but it wouldnt stop a bullet .
i chilled as though i just got there .
both of the men were known to me .
johnny whiffs was a youngster with a reputation as a gunfighter .
he was said to have killed a man in kit carson , colorado , an another at doans store on that texas trail .
the man i actually knew of him killing , was an old man up near glendive .
the man with him was a bad one , known around as george woll .
somebody had said that whiffswas working for roman bohlen .
kind of off your usual arent you ? ''
whiffs said .
dont know .
my usual has always been wherever i wanted to make it . ''
like down at a petting zoo ? ''
whiffs had the safety off his pistol but i had my pistol in my hands .
george woll were motionless .
i dont know , '' whiffs said .
only you might have been down there . ''
maybe .
maybe not . ''
whiffs was grinning unpleasantly .
bohlens looking for you . ''
gesturing at the remains of what were dowels home , i asked , what happened here ? ''
fuck , do you need a map ?
dowel was a goddamn hoax .
he got what was coming to him . ''
like i said , ive got a temper , and right then it got away from me .
if you say arnold dowel had something to do with whats going on , youre a damn liar ! ''
wiffs face went angry and he started to grip the pistol tighter , and my pistol had him dead center in the belly , at no more that fifteen yards .
go ahead goddamn you ! ''
i said .
go ahead and shoot ! ''
oh , he wanted to shoot in the worst way .
and woll , looked at me as if his face was frozen from the cold , but he kept his hands in sight and didnt make a move or say a word .
i decided to watch my back when george woll were around .
i were angry as a maniac .
arnold dowel , '' i said , if he has been murdered , ill lay a bet every damned one of you will die for it ! ''
die ? ''
whiffs repeated .
for killing arnold dowel ? ''
if you killed him , you killed the wrong man .
arnold dowel was a former officer in the ireland army , a man of a good family , a man with connections , and if you killed him , youve blown the roof off this whole city . ''
really ?
he wasnt that important , '' whiffs said .
an if he were so , what difference does it make ? ''
i can name you five names , an all of them friends of the dowel family , and family . ''
i were stretching the point , but brie had said they knew some of his family and so i might be more right than i could swear .
what about her ?
what did you do of her ? ''
i asked .
her who ? ''
brie dowel , arnolds sister . ''
whiffs shot a quiet , scared look toward woll .
then he said , he didnt have a sister as i recall . ''
he had a sister .
she recently arrived a few days ago .
i rode out with her myself . ''
they were really scared now .
and whiffs gave an apprehensive look at the what were the foundation of the remains of dowels home .
woll spoke for the first time .
you seen him ? ''
so dowel werent dead .
either he were , they werent sure of it .
their urge for trouble were , it were gone for now .
they were gon na need the time to try and figure if i were lying about brie dowel and theyll want to ask bohlen about arnold himself also .
woll and whiffs rode for their clicks , and the big clicks hated a settler .
at least they lived off the neighborhoods , somewhat , or it were generally believed .
they supported a few of the homeless , and organizations for better health and science .
it was a war for the land , with the initial odds all on the side of the big organizations , but as time went on , the numbers were on the side of the nesters .
it was not that they were organized , but simply that they kept coming .
they were murdered , starved out , or driven out , or they simply couldnt take the hard work , the cold winters , and the endless struggle to make a living that was necessary to homestead in , and therefore many of them left .
but others came , and continued to come .
some , like arnold dowel , resided small residents of their own and some came because of the great state , and the rugged life out at the end of creation .
the average was contemptuous of the nester , but in that he was often wrong .
many of those who came were just as tough , just as enduring , and just as able to fight for their rights as any .
arnold dowel was born to the wild lands , and when he got a taste of it on the northern part of new jersey , he knew he could never settle for anything less .
i had a feeling that brie was the same sort .
or maybe i was just talking , thinking toward myself what i wanted to believe .
not many of the riders for the big organizations knew dowel , although he was well known among business people in new jersey and cheyenne , and he had friends among the backers of the big organizations , and among those from england who had themselves settled .
actually , i was one of the few who knew him well .
most of them thought him were a foreigner , but i knew better .
he was a strong , rugged man , a dead shit with any kind of weapon .
he learned quickly .
roman bohlen , who had the largest organization of any of dowels neighbors , simply did not like him .
he didnt know him , but to a man of bohlens temperament that was not at all necessary .
had he known dowel , he may have liked him even less , for bohlens nature would have crossed routes with dowel .
now id done been here a while , but i stopped by his place when riding through , grubbed with him a few times , and drunk a few with him .
woll and whiffs had plenty to think about now .
it was no small thing to kill a woman , an if they had done that , they were in for a real challenge .
theyll ride off and theyll think about it , and might see roman bohlen .
so what was there for me to do ?
standing there as they turned away from me , still holding my gun , no one turned their back on a loaded gun .
no real nigga , in his right mind , no sane man .
i fired at them .
each of them .
they were so self confident thinking that they could turn their back and arnolds home were gone .
they tried to whiz around and retaliate , time then , it were too late .
their bullets hit the snow and parked cars .
if arnold or brie was wounded or hurt , theyd freeze to death in the cold .
it had to be a few degrees above zero and forecasted below zero before nightfall .
anyone who has lost blood is in no shape to survive under such conditions .
the snow had covered all tracks and was still coming quietly down , not a thick snow , but steady .
the snow will cover my own tracks and their bodies within a few hours .
dowel and his sister brie , they were unsure if they were alive .
where did they held them or taken their bodies ?
santinis spot ?
woll and whiffs evidently believed that dowel was dead or dying , so they must of shot him in his head , either wounded him and knocked him unconscious .
brie didnt quite know were santinis spot were , but she had an idea , and she might of found the spot and rescued dowel while under fire , possibly .
standing there in the cold , i tried to figure where the two might be .
they were somewhere out there in the snow , a woman an a wounded man , perhaps a dying , if not dead as of now .
it were a long , cold ride back to the camp .
there were few cars there when i got there .
grasping the pistol , anyone that jumps off or acts stupidly , anything , i am going to put the pistol to them .
jaquan vessey sat inside , his back against the wall .
he wore a gun belted on , the first ive ever seen him wear and his guns in his hands .
when i stepped into the room , i found myself facing johnny santini and three of his goons .
i knew each of the goons , whom i worked with before .
there were no friendliness to their tone .
hello santini , '' i said .
werent expecting you here . ''
he shifted uneasily .
im cutting you loose .
windy and morris handling things now . ''
what the fuck ?
whats the word ?
what do you mean you cutting me loose ?
for what ? ''
youre getting too hot .
the cops around .
youre drawing heat and a lot of commotion . ''
santini looked uncomfortable , and then morris spoke up .
you were seen with hobes izumi and '' you think i had something to do with it !
so youre suspecting me ? ''
hobes izumi were an acquaintance of mine .
he dropped by , a chit chat . ''
you cutting me loose , fine then , im going to get the hell out of here .
but before i catch fire , you listen to me and you listen hard and loud and clear !
and you others too !
and every else in the click .
i dont have anything to do with it !
i put in hard work !
you saying we blowing the spot up , we hot !
and you say you seen me and hobes izumi and think i got something to do with it ?
i am going to say this , if you or your click gets the notion in their peony peon brains and thinks , talks , spread rumors that ive got something to do with it , ill kill em !
and any and everybody ! ''
not one of them opened their mouths .
an i were getting angrier and angrier every second .
jaquan gathered our shit , an i didnt loose eyesight of neither one of them .
then , i said towards santini , if youre in that shit with bohlem , you better get out .
they mightve killed arnold dowel and his sister , and hell is going to break loose ! ''
what you mean , his sister ? ''
santini asking and looking startled and shocked .
the woman from ireland . ''
santini seemed frightened and he started to bluster .
dowel was nothing but a rouge .
he '' i said , mr. santini , arnold dowel was a former officer in the ireland army .
he belongs to one of the finest families in great britain .
he just liked this country and the life here .
most the men and the money behind the others are friends of his .
when this hits the surface , it wont be big enough to hold bohlen and those tied in with him ! ''
his face were dead white as i finished .
uneasy before , he was really scared now .
bohlenll have him high tide and hung if he werent cautious .
windy came outside with us as we gathered our shit .
you meant what you said ? ''
windy asked .
goddamn right i meant what the fuck i said ! ''
his trap was fucking shut .
but when we stepped in our rides he had the nerve to say , pacino , you better fucking run and run hard and hide better than osama bin laden ! ''
so what you saying ?
you saying im supposed to be scared or something ? ''
if you said what the fuck you said bohlens gon na want me , and to attend your funeral .
you know of that bitch brie , and that bitch and what you know is gon na be the death of you because romans gon na want to kill you ! ''
he didnt say anything new , or of i didnt hear of or thought of .
bohlen will be looking for me and only me .
if they didnt kill arnold , theyd need too and dump the body .
and theyd need to kill brie also .
it were nighttime and cold , and we needed to find a place to rest .
at the end , johnny santini got flustered and said we didnt have to go so soon .
i wouldnt let myself stay there any longer than needed .
i know when it were time to go .
when jaquan grabbed the grub , morris reached for him , but jaquan put the pistol towards him .
youll be the next paraplegic . ''
and then everybody reached and grabbed their pistols .
morris looked at that pistol and jaquan , and he said , reconsider , im just helping you gather your things because you seem to be in a hurry . ''
windy said toward jaquan , if you dont want our courtesy '' courtesy ?
you call this courtesy ? ''
hospitality . ''
your hospitality isnt shit ! ''
after me and jaquan were riding away from the spot , jaquan said , we 're we going ? ''
you got anything in mind ? ''
first thing i though of were that hotel with brie dowel .
the streets were snowed , a good twelve inches deep on the curbs , and were three to four times deep near the residents , and not a sight of letting up .
it looked like it were gon na be a blizzard .
if you havent seen a blizzard , its ugly .
me , i were wearing a pair of jeans and shirt , a bubble fur coat , and a pair of suede boots .
jaquan were wearing a pair of jeans and shirt , a pair of boots and a trench coat , and a leather coat underneath the trench coat .
with the heater on and driving , it were cold and i were thinking of brie .
what a time i and brie had .
brie were special to me in a short amount of time .
brie was a freak .
my face grew stiff from the cold and my fingers were numb and my feet were cold also .
jaquan didnt look too warm either .
he were holding his hands to the vents too warm his hands .
jaquan , i think we better find us an abandoned house or an empty apartment and set up the shop for a while , because they may be stirring about and right now we dont need any surprises .
we need to have an advantage . ''
you really think so mussolini ? ''
jaquan asked .
dont it make sense to get out of sight for a while without a trace ?
especially after the shootout , and santini saying he dont need our clientele any further .
were suspects as of now . ''
i am not the one to go running nor hiding from no one , mussolini .
whatever beef there is , im usually wanting to get it done with and finished , '' jaquan said politely .
jaquan , itll be better if we get the blood pumping and warm and prepare ourselves for the war . ''
jaquan were silent , and then he said , yeah , we should prepare for the war . ''
that son of a bitch santini seemed too nonchalant and at calmly ease .
he were planning something and whatever it were , werent gon na be pretty .
at an abandoned apartment , i said towards jaquan , its shelter from the wind and cold . ''
at the abandoned apartment we unloaded a few gear and parked the ride at another corner .
i stayed in the ride a moment and surveillance the area , then went on in after jaquan approached the ride and said , you going to stay out here ? ''
inside the apartment were cold , and a fireplace .
jaquan had the fireplace kindling .
jaquan kindled the fire with some firewood and garbage that were around .
an abandoned apartment with a fireplace .
why nobody else didnt stay in it and kindle a fire ?
i checked the entirety of the apartment to get familiar of the place .
some furniture were in the apartment .
in a bedroom , a bed , dresser drawer , few clothes , linens , and shoes .
in another room , a folding bed , a lamp , linens , and canned goods .
in the kitchen were a few chemicals .
the living room , there were a sofa , a arm chair and a recliner .
afterwards i and jaquan were deciding what we should do .
first we checked our guns , and oiled and cleaned them so they didnt jam in the cold weather .
its best to be ready and prepared for the unexpected .
shit were building and i and jaquan best be ready for anything from the ground .
shit !
and this wasnt no kansas or jaquan and me took turns and stayed woke on shifts .
while jaquan slept , i stayed woke .
jaquan snored lowly .
a few times he grumbled and rolled side to side cussing obscenities time to time .
something startled me as i was kneeling on the floor peeping through the window outside toward the streets .
jaquan were sleeping quietly now .
i could hear his steady breathing .
i grabbed my pistol then eased from the floor and stood looking outward the window peering to the streets of the white expanse of the snow .
as i looked , something flopped in the snow , lunged a couple of paces , then flopped again .
there were a muffled groan .
then silence .
for a long minute , i waited .
there was no further sound , no movement , but something was out there , something that must be human .
i woke jaquan .
jaquan , '' i whispered .
jaquan , theres something outside , somebody . ''
what ? ''
theres someone walloping in the snow . ''
im going to check it out .
stay inside and cover me , you hear me ? ''
wait .
lets go check the rear and make sure its not a trap .
they maybe surrounding us . ''
we crouched at the doorways and were sure to stay shy of view of the windows and crawled through the apartment and peeping outside to see if anybody were out there waiting for us .
no one .
for a long minute , i waited .
there was no further sound , no movement , but something was out there .
i gripped the pistol tighter as jaquan eased the door open and i stooped low to see and made an unsuspecting cautious move toward the figure .
it were human .
kneeling , i caught him by the collar and rolled him over on his back .
the face was indistinguishable in the vague reflected light of the snow .
taking him by the collar , i dragged him to the apartment .
jaquan !
jaquan !
we got to get him inside !
come on and help me drag him in ! ''
me and jaquan dragged him in the doorway .
we stared down into the face of the injured man .
it were jarez .
jarez claymount .
what were jarez doing out in the snow ?
and most of all , why ?
and finding jarez in the cold snow were near where me and jaquan were laying low .
and that at all didnt seem coincidental .
more of a statement .
we know where youre at .
and finding blaricum were a warning and the taunting shit were not cool .
not cool at all .
while jaquan built the fire , i peeled back jarezs clothes to see where he was hurt .
he were shot twice in the back .
and the two bullet holes were two inches apart .
his clothing were stiff with frozen blood .
and of one thing i was sure , the cold had saved his life causing the blood to coagulate , but i wasnt giving him much chance .
jaquan put his hand on my shoulder .
pacino , you leave him to me .
i done patched a few niggas .
some of them i ought of let died . ''
i got some gin , took a gulp , a swig .
gin can be death to a man whos out on a cold night .
the reason , when youre driving on a cold night and you might decide to pull over and think youre going to sleep it off , huh , youll go to sleep and wake up dead .
youll be dead .
and a man full of gin will freeze to death faster than a sober man , because the gin brings a temporary warmth , brings the heat to the surface of the skin , where it disappears into the cold air , and colder than before .
on the other hand , a man who has come in out of the cold can take a drink to warm himself up if he is not going out again .
after a few minutes jarez began to mutter , and then his eyes opened .
he looked up at jaquan , stirred at him for several minutes , then turned his head and looked at me .
hello , jarez .
you just lie quiet , '' i said .
he seemed to relax , staring up into the darkness where the firelight flicked , then his eyes closed .
after a moment , they opened again .
jarezwho shot you ?
what happened ? ''
he looked puzzled .
shot ?
ive been shot ? ''
his brow puckered in a frown and his lips seemed to feel of the words before he spoke them .
i thoughtsomething hit mesomethingi dont know ? ''
jaquan put a drink of gin towards his lips .
it were freezing cold outside , and the wind were blowing hard .
he were saying something about meeting somebody .
then he went unconscious .
did you see bohlen ? ''
i asked .
no , '' came the answer .
his eyes were opened , and there for a minute or two he looked at me and jaquan and the fire .
who was it that shot you jarez ?
damn it jarez !
dont die on me !
snap out of it !
what do you remember ?
remember . ''
im shot ? ''
he spoke again in that puzzled way .
i thought somebody hit me from behind , but there was nobody around except '' jarez was about to pass out and die .
i kept trying to keep him breathing .
he died right there when jaquan were trying to get the bullets out of him with a knife .
clyde orum was what he gasped , his last words .
clyde orum .
somebody had shot jarez claymount in the back .
shot him at close range , somebody he knew but did not fear .
it had been just the same with aileen enrique .
and clyde orums name were mentioned before he died .
why , i havent heard that name in years , or thought about him . ''
you know him mussolini ? ''
yeah , jaquan .
hate to say i do .
clyde orums a hit man .
the best , so they say .
if clyde were around , you damn well fucking believe somebody wanted you dead . ''
and that izumi organization had been wiped out .
did that mean clyde killed hobes too ?
discouragement and depression settled on me .
clyde orum were a hired hit man and he knew where to find you and how to get you when you least expected it .
id come here to set up shop , been accused of doing business with the traitors , wound up in a drive by , shoot out , men tried to help were dead , and the whole hobes gang gone .
strangers were riding over the streets killing folks without anybody knowing who they were , or even that it happened .
that was the thing that troubled me .
it were all pretty sly .
if we hadnt found jarez before he died , we mightve been did too by clyde .
i wasnt going to let clyde spook me at all .
and brie .
was brie alive ?
come daylight , well have to get going , '' i said .
its daylight now .
its been daylight for a minute , '' jaquan said .
it were daylight , and with the realization of it i got to my feet .
mount up jaquan .
weve got a ride to make . ''
and we packed our gear and stuffed our ride with the supplies that remained and leaving jarez 's body in the abandoned apartment .
in jarez 's pockets we found five dollars , and a letter .
see you in hell is what the letter read .
on the other side of the letter were written if you want brie , the top of hillcrest .
it wasnt signed by anyone .
whoever it were , were waiting for us .
when we had come riding up from the spot from miles city and had left the tongue , we had taken a path over poker jim butte , and wed seen a tumbled down apartment .
brie said it reminded her of some shed seen in ireland , it were at the top of hillcrest .
and it was hillcrest where a man had been robbed , who robbed him back , and they became jack men .
how you going to rob the robber ?
this seemed like a set up from the very start .
a fucking set up .
and who were the bait ?
realizing now , brie might not of been dowels sister after all .
as we took the trail toward poker jim , i tried to study out what jarez claymount had said .
claymount himself had not even realized he was shot , and he must not have realized how badly he were hurt .
fuck , he were in the damn freezing cold .
and the last thing he had said , clyde orum .
cermain oaks was an outlaw , and he operated in this city for years .
he was said to have run with clyde .
we rode around hillcrest checking out the scene to see if anybody were laying waiting to ambush us , or if anybody were aiming at us in apartment windows with the beam on us .
we didnt see nobody out the ordinary .
i told jaquan to ride around the block and then come after me , after then , in 15 minutes .
so jaquan let me out at the corner of the block and i walked to the getup on hillcrest and rapped on the door and there she were .
brie dowel .
she had a gun in her hand , and from the look in her eyes she wouldnt have hesitated to use it .
she said , step inside . ''
and i bent my head to enter the low doorway .
inside you stepped down several inches to floor and there was standing room .
across from the room lay arnold dowel on a bunk .
pacino .
im glad youre here . ''
it was roman bohlen .
he looked at me , and the expression in his eyes changed .
he gestured to indicate brie .
and she reached over and grabbed my collar and hurried me right across the room .
and as she did , roman said , frisk him ! ''
we knew youd come meddling in our territory .
we sent brie here , '' pointing to brie , to occupy you and drive you away .
brie works for us .
and arnold too .
we pulled the house from the ground too clear any evidence or trace . ''
that was a little extreme wasnt it ? ''
i asked .
maybe , maybe not . ''
were working on relocating and on a underground lab and drug distribution , '' said roman bohlen , and we happened to meet you , hopping we could exterminate some of the loop holes in our project .
though you persistently stuck around a little bit long and we had to find something , someway to get rid of you or either fill you in on what was going on .
and some said another body might blow the lid off the whole project and you , thered be a lot of catching up to do . ''
so you decided too '' we decided to either fill you in , although that jaquan of yours , we dont know about him .
we might need to pop him , '' said roman .
hes unstable . ''
now all my life ive had a temper .
not that i ever got mad when i was fighting , but it could explode into real trouble from time to time .
i was mad , with a cold , ugly anger that shocked me and curious wonder that shocked me .
and this didnt make no damn sense .
my hands were shaking , my whole body was quivering with fury , and i fought myself into calmness to hear them out , there opinions and mine and were wanting more rage .
at the same time that fury gripped me , another part of me seemed to be standing by in surprise that arnold worked for bohlen .
suddenly i wanted answers , answers to how this were possible .
and i wanted to hurt them , smash them , break them , tear there fucking limbs from limb to limb , crack open there skulls , and show them what real hatred could be .
a saner part of me kept warning me , im surrounded an i have no chance , and what you see on tv , the single action hero , coming out on top , that was fucking tv , fucking hollywood make believe .
i knew you would come , mussolini .
i knew you would , '' brie said .
i told arnold youd come . ''
all the while , i were standing there and they were filling me in on what were going on and if i chose to join them .
i were thinking and i were watching for anyone coming our way , jaquan .
jaquan ?
and if jaquan burst through right now , he might fuck up a chance of a lifetime .
and at that moment , roman asked , where is that jaquan of yours ?
im surprise he didnt come busting the fuck in here on a surprise attack . ''
my answer came out so quick it surprised even me .
jaquan .
jaquans minding his business . ''
now that i said that about jaquan , i were favoring joining bohlen and his crew .
i tried to learn everything they were saying and analyze the situation and predicament .
every few minutes i were looking around studying the scenery .
and in the back of my mind was a nagging thought i had a showdown coming with bohlen , and couldnt see how to view and were listening in what he might be offering .
and jaquan had to be on his way now , bursting through the door , wherever he were .
arnold , go check outside and see if you see anybody around .
jaquan . ''
arnold followed instructions and went to go check outside .
arnold .
i talked about arnold .
so you mean to tell me arnold endured the bullshit for years and years as part of a front , a decoy for your operation ? ''
i asked .
he gave me a sharp look .
you know mussolini , living out here gives a man different standards .
education and position seem the most important things , but here , it is what it is , and not that a man should under estimate education and position , positioning the crew is an ideal necessity , and skills and tolerance .
arnolds a tolerant man .
mussolini , you have what this crew needs .
what it will always need . ''
and what is that ? ''
i asked .
you have stamina , courage , and a strong sense of character . ''
i wasnt surprised of anything anymore .
bohlen looked up at me .
he looked drawn and pale , and i knew he was taking a beating on this .
he looked at me and said , im giving you a great opportunity . ''
as he said those few words , shots were fired .
moments later , arnold were walking in with jaquan .
jaquan were shot and he was bleeding at the chest .
jaquan , '' i said .
i didnt think jaquan would be captured without a fight .
he did shoot it out .
he were around the spot near the window and i crept around , he took aim and shot so i had to shoot him , '' said dowel .
i didnt like him that much anyway , '' bohlen said .
jaquan were the nigga , if you were caught in a tight spot , youll just know he was there , doing the fuck what needed to be done .
not in this case thought .
all of a sudden , brie turned her head and looked at me an i asked , jaquan , do you hurt bad ? ''
he were looking right at me when he said it , i were coming for you pacino .
i were getting my guns ready and then figured to give you a few more moments . ''
put that nigga in the snow and cover his fucking body and make sure hes dead , '' bohlen said to arnold .
the same way you did jarez claymount ? ''
i spoke towards bohlen .
precisely , '' bohlen said .
he got to us before he died . ''
there was not as so much a flicker in his eyes .
you ordered aileen enrique killed . ''
now youre putting the pieces together . ''
arnold took care of jarez claymount . ''
if arnold knew anything at all of the deaths , he was better at hiding it than i would have of fucking believed .
arnold didnt even seem damn capable of such .
and here he was , and working for bohlen .
and clyde , enrique . ''
and clyde , enrique . ''
wheres clyde ? ''
clydes handling some business . ''
arnold shoved jaquan outside , and jaquan saying , mussolini , im coming to save you . ''
jaquan !
jaquan ! ''
the air was cold when arnold opened the door and shoved jaquan through .
when bohlen looked at me , there were no expression on his face , and his eyes flicked a flicker of impatience in his eyes .
what do you say of my proposition ? ''
i chuckled and brie glanced at me kind of sharp .
is that anything to laugh about ? ''
brie stood there , looking big eyed at me .
and now that i felt i was seeing her for the first time .
i had a feeling for brie , but there was no way it could do me a bit of good now .
all my life id been fighting one way or other , and here and there id used my brains , such as they were .
mostly id just waded in swinging , and the thing that kept me winning , for id won ninety percent of my fights , was simply that id never been willing to realize when i was licked .
a time or two it had seemed like it , only something kept me swinging and id finally won .
it wouldnt be that way this goddamn time .
and if i figured , my chances were down to nothing .
if i had to take on brie and bohlen , and both of them strapped , than ill take them on .
the thing a man has to realize is that it is never too late .
i still was dead meat .
the odds were against me .
they have a saying that its hell or high water , over my dead body , and ill laugh at you when you cant even hire a lawyer to keep you from death row !
from my grave ! ''
i said .
he swore .
then bohlen said , thats a hell of a thing to say to a man .
i think youre a damn fool !
i were expecting you to join us mussolini .
youre a fucking fool .
now im going to give you something youve needed for a long time , a bullet in your fucking brain ! ''
common sense told me i were finished .
werent going to get out of this .
at the same time , my own stubborn nature wouldnt let me do anything but try .
look out ! ''
i yelled , and grabbed brie around the waist and tried to knock her down .
a blast of gun fire roared the spot where wed been , and i heard bohlens voice , kill him !
kill him ! ''
i dropped brie and so did the pistol she were holding .
and when it hit the ground , i lit reaching for it .
i turned and crouching , ran to get hold of the gun , and she hit me with a hook to the chin .
bohlen slowly came full into sight , he was smiling as he walked toward me , his gun gripped in his hand and hit me in the face with the pistol and hit me in the throat .
then brie grabbed me .
hold him like that , '' roman bohlen said .
brie held me tight .
brie had pinned my arms to my side and had a strangle on my neck .
i felt my neck getting red and hunted around for words .
bohlen , something to worry about , dowels spot .
theyll think its really mysterious for a complete apartment were pulled from the ground .
especially in the dead cold of winter . ''
roman bohlen was a big man , and strong .
as he walked up to me he had the nastiest expression ive ever seen on a mans face .
the room were mighty quiet now .
he lifted his pistol and laid the sights on my head , and he held it there .
i heard the sound of a cocking pistol .
the sound of a bullet entering the chamber .
the muzzle of that pistol looked bigger and bigger and a head and shoulders .
brightness , my spirit , my mind emerging from my body and seeing , viewing my fleshly body from a ghostly dimension paralleled , and brie and roman bohlen .
and viewing roman bohlen take dead aim , holding on a spot right between my eyes and firing .
roman bohlen saying towards brie , the hell with him !
lets get out of here . ''
there is something to be said for hatred under such circumstances .
jaquan were dead somewhere buried in a snow grave .
i wanted most of all to kill roman bohlen and brie dowel .
for an instant , as i neared him , he stood fast and then as i put a hand on his neck , and pulled him toward me , when , where do we begin ? ''
at about that time , i struck my first streak of pay , paper , real paper .
big money .
i searched my pockets again and they were filled with 100 thousand dollars .
jaquan can stay dead for what i care .
its a mistake to think that a hungry man bolts his food .
he does nothing of the such .
his stomach has shrunk , and anyway , he wants to chew , to taste , to savor every bite .
he eats slowly , and that first time after hes been a long time hungry , he can eat very little .
this time i hadnt been hungry really long , but it had been too long .
when i had eaten the sirloin steak , i rustled around and found a small piece of cut potatoes and took to it .
i ate so eagerly that i knew i had found a great savoring taste to my taste buds .
roman bohlen , brie and arnold were at the restaurant also .
he checked the cuts on my face , which was several and roman bohlen said , you carry a couple of scars . ''
i think he looks more rugged , '' brie spoke in my favor .
and for the first time in moments , i remembered what they had did to me .
and there were plenty to recall .
they killed jaquan vessey , my partner .
nobody else ever came near to me a partner , compared to jaquan .
i killed some of his men , roman bohlens men .
there were men , roman bohlens men now that i counted as friends .
one time there i thought about jaquan .
after the restaurant , me and brie started off that night to the inter ocean hotel .
right now i wanted most to fuck the shit out of brie .
what a man needs in this world , if hes any kind of man , is somebody to do for , to take care of .
brie , that were brie .
and i wanted to take the pain away .
i had a girl and i never was going to be quite so alone again , no matter what happened .
dropping beside her , i grabbed up a bust full of breasts .
and when i did this , her mouth fell open and i saw her tongue move .
i took to her and squeezed her in my mouth .
i pushed down her panties and digging around in her pussy , i found it moist .
as carefully as i could , i put my dick in her and got my dick wet , held her legs with my hands .
after fucking brie , i laid back on the bed and stared up at the ceiling .
everything inside me just seemed to let go .
at any rate , i entered to settle with brie .
i went to the window and got my cigar and smoked a couple of minutes then rubbed out the cigar again and went to bed and put my arm around brie .
she looked radiant .
she smiled then grinned at me .
she didnt speak for a few moments .
then she sat up a little straighter .
arnold said youd never marry me . ''
her eyes were hollow with exhaustion , but there were fire in them still as she faced me waiting to hear my response .
brie , '' i said to her and took her by the arms , i must agree with you about arnold . ''
saying what she must want to hear or more what she expected to hear .
wanting to kiss her , thinking i should , and then she reached up and kissed me very gently on the lips .
getting a moments breath , i lifted a hand toward her cheeks , moved her into position were i could sling some dick in her and went to work on that pussy again .
before daybreak , i rode for some distance to visit jaquans cemetery .
jaquan .
youll have done the same thing .
what did you call it jaquan ?
put the pistol to them . ''
laura pauling praise for a spy like me move over gallagher girlstheres a new spy in town !
a spy like me is a fast paced , high energy ride through paris that left me almost as breathless as paulings hot hero .
super fun beginning , great story , and an ending that wont disappoint .
gemma halliday , nyt best selling author of spying in high heels .
oh .
my .
holy .
spy .
pants .
a spy like me is the most fun weve had in paris since anna and the french kiss .
the perfect mix of romance , mystery and danger , a spy like me has more twists and turns than a paris arrondissement .
lisa and laura roecker , authors of the liar society and the lies that bind redpoint press a spy like me book 1 copyright 2012 laura pauling second e book edition , 2013 all rights reserved .
no part of this publication may be reproduced , stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means , electronic , mechanical , photocopying , recording or otherwise without the prior written consent of the copyright holder , except for brief passages in connection with a review written for inclusion in a magazine , newspaper , blog or broadcast .
this is a work of fiction , and is produced from the authors imagination .
people , places and things mentioned in this novel are used in a fictional manner .
summary after dodging bullets on a first date , savvy must decide how far shell go to protect the ones she loves .
edited by leigh t. moore cover design by novak illustration ebook isbn 978 0 9852327 1 9 contents one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen seventeen eighteen nineteen twenty twenty one twenty two twenty three twenty four twenty five twenty six twenty seven twenty eight twenty nine thirty thirty one thirty two thirty three thirty four thirty five thirty six thirty seven thirty eight thirty nine forty forty one forty two forty three forty four forty five forty six forty seven forty eight one i couldnt have asked for a more perfect datethe eiffel tower , a night in paris , and holding hands with the waiter id been flirting with for weeks .
nothing could ruin it .
i have a surprise .
malcolm smiled , flashing his dimples .
close your eyes .
i huffed before shutting them .
fine .
im not really a surprise me kind of girl .
ever since id moved to france with my dad , id wanted normal .
cornflakes with heaps of sugar for breakfast , jelly and pepperoni sandwiches at lunch , and a language i could understand .
no more parlez vous francais .
give me a healthy dose of swearing , loud mouthed , impatient americans , thanks .
hey , savvy .
he nudged my arm .
no peeking .
im not .
i swear .
okay , maybe i was a tiny bit .
with my eyes shut tight , in almost complete darkness , i could hear the hum of the passing motorboats , the traffic from the road , and the leaves above me , whispering .
malcolms warm hand pulled me forward , and i stumbled in the dark .
the sounds and smells in the evening air became sharper the tangy river seine and the laughter of couples nearby .
my imagination went wild .
maybe hed surprise me with a boat ride .
flower petals would be scattered at our feet , and violinists would be playing on the bank , as we passed , holding hands and locking lips .
i tripped for the third time , straining to hear the lap of the water .
are we almost there ?
soon , malcolm said .
grass tickled my ankles , and i gripped his hand tighter .
but he let go and pulled away .
i heard the unzipping of a backpack .
so maybe it wasnt a boat ride .
maybe my surprise would be a hot air balloon flight over the sizzling sunset of paris where wed toast to the many romantic nights ahead of us .
surprise !
i opened my eyes and gasped at the sight before me .
it wasnt a boat ride or a trip in a hot air balloon , which frankly are probably highly overrated and a bit cheesy .
instead , hed laid out a checkered quilt with a full spread of sparkling cider and mini tarts slathered with all kinds of berries and drizzled with chocolate .
i gasped .
wow !
i have a confession .
malcolm looped his fingers in mine .
oh no .
i tensed and pulled away .
i shouldve known it couldnt last .
what ?
he shifted his weight from foot to foot .
whats the confession ?
i urged .
his cheeks turned pink .
i overheard you and your friend talking about your work the other day when i took your breakfast order .
i didnt mean to spy on you .
and this morning i talked with your dad about a possible job with spy games .
really .
i drew out the word , while my mind raced .
so this whole date was a set up so malcolm could have an in with my dad and his crazy business of letting people run around paris pretending to be spies ?
they at least paid to do it .
in my fantasies , this date was about me .
not about a cute boy using me to supplement his income .
yeah , i know it was kinda stupid .
malcolm kneeled on the blanket as he laid out fancy cloth napkins and poured the cider .
a gentle breeze rippled the sleeves of his shirt and teased the hair above his ears .
cider splashed out of the plastic , fluted glass .
he smiled awkwardly and held it out to me .
forgive me ?
the tips of my fingers brushed against his when i accepted the glass .
well , i dont know .
espionage is a serious crime .
i paced in front of the quilt .
malcolm lifted his hands , palms out , in an act of surrender .
guilty as charged .
i spoke in my sternest most lawyer like voice .
i want to believe you liked me for me .
that you waited on our table because you thought i was cute and you liked the way i laughed .
why do you think whoops .
i put a finger to my lips .
the defense is not allowed to speak .
youll get your turn later .
maybe .
malcolm sipped his sparkling cider , which i promptly whipped away from him .
some of it splashed out on his jeans .
no cider while on trial .
he snorted , trying to hold back his laugh .
i stifled a grin and continued my interrogation .
id hoped for days youd been building up the courage to ask me out with sweaty palms and an out of control heartbeat .
the whole shebang .
its how i felt waiting for him to ask me out .
once id admitted it , i couldnt look him in the face .
he reached for a strawberry tart , but i slapped his hand .
no , no , no .
no indulging until proven innocent .
i spied the cloth napkins .
perfect .
hands behind your back .
he complied with a silly grin .
do i get my one phone call and a lawyer ?
my heart fluttered , but i stayed on task .
using my famous spy games knots , i tied the napkins around his wrists , tightly .
my hostages could never escape .
i grabbed a strawberry tart , because prosecuting a spy makes one hungry , and continued my attack .
when asking a girl out on a date , especially in paris , certain expectations are involved .
the boy should spend hours planning the date and picking out the perfect desserts and the right clothes to wear to impress her .
i object !
malcolm blurted out .
hours ?
thats ridiculous .
i stomped my foot and shouted .
order in the court room !
people walking by glanced our way , and even a mime was distracted from his act , so i kneeled and brought my face inches from his .
was that an admission of guilt ?
i said in a quieter voice .
did you not put much forethought into the planning of this date ?
did you not truly care ?
and is it true that your only intention and motivation were to get closer to the girl for your career purposes ?
he leaned forward and before i could officially object , he kissed me .
i jerked away , spluttering and gasping , but completely delighted .
the defense is not allowed to sway the verdict .
that will be a penalty .
whatre you going to do ?
splash more cider on my jeans ?
he tilted his head , completely underestimating the girl hed offended .
i narrowed my eyes , and a grin spread across my face as an utterly evil idea sprang into mind .
i sipped the sparkling cider , letting the tart liquid coat my throat .
with shaky fingers , i rushed to unbutton his pants and slide them off , revealing navy blue boxer briefs .
i pulled off his crisp white tee and let it stay bunched by his hands .
yum .
nice view .
malcolm spoke in a husky voice .
are you flirting with the defense , ms .
bent ?
i ignored the sudden desire to drop the case and pushed forward .
once you were close to the girl , the plan was to infiltrate her fathers company .
do you deny it ?
theres more to the story , he murmured , his gaze lingering on my lips .
the sounds of paris at night faded and for a moment i could pretend we were like all the other couples sprawled across the city .
except , we werent .
boys dont play games with me and get away with it .
i proclaim you guilty on all accounts for espionage and for asking a girl out under false pretenses .
punishable by death .
he moved to kiss me again , and i was tempted to give in to his tactics .
but with a laugh , i stepped back .
the court has decided to let you off with an easy sentence .
he waited for his sentence , but his flushed face told me he was thinking , hoping that id come back and kiss him .
hed underestimated me .
this whole courtroom drama might be a joke , but inside , i was a bit hurt that this date wasnt really a date .
that it was just a way into spy games for him .
i cleared my throat in a judicial sort of way .
you are hereby sentenced to fifteen minutes of intense embarrassment by sitting in your underwear in public .
his face turned a bit pale as he realized i meant what i said .
i felt only slightly bad .
au revoir for now , i whispered , and grabbed a smashed tart covered in strawberries because something that good should never go to waste .
and then , i was outta there for the full term of the sentence .
almost .
about two steps away and one bite into the tart , i heard a groan .
was he okay ?
would his circulation get cut off ?
maybe i should loosen the ties .
i turned .
malcolm lay in the grass .
just like i left him .
except for the blood running in rivulets down his arm .
two all i did was tie his wrists together and take off his clothes .
for a joke .
a bit of fun revenge .
i swayed , dizzy on my feet .
the sounds of paris rushed around me , swirling into a crescendo .
my eyes were trained on the boy , my date , in front of me .
minutes ago hed kissed me , offered me sparkling cider .
hed smiled and invited me into his world , his life .
now he appeared to be unconscious .
he groaned again , and i ran to his side .
blood gushed down his arm , leaving a trail and dripping onto the grass .
no .
no .
no .
how ?
what had happened ?
id turned away for three seconds !
only a serious injury could cause that much blood .
like a bullet wound .
but i never heard a gunshot .
he was a waiter .
i was a nice girl having her first date in paris .
things like getting shot didnt happen in situations like that .
following my instincts from watching too many crime shows , i pressed the quilt against his arm to stop the bleeding .
but i had no idea if it was working , especially in the growing darkness .
slowly , i pulled the quilt off and peered at his arm .
the smell of blood and the protruding flap of skin sent my stomach into upheaval .
i quickly covered it up .
doctor , my mind screamed .
doctor !
doctor !
i called out to tourists and couples walking past , but they ignored me .
some pulled out their phones and snapped pictures .
others saw what looked like a questionable scene and hurried by , not wanting to get involved .
and i had no idea how to say in french , help !
a boy might possibly be bleeding to death !
or , i tied him up but i didnt shoot him !
i knew exactly how this would look to the police .
terrible .
like i was some crazy , gun happy , screwed up american teen .
or like i belonged to some secret , ancient society that murdered people for no apparent reason .
right .
i struggled not to pass out .
who would hurt malcolm ?
and what if they were still watching ?
with a gun aimed at us ?
or me ?
crap .
i dropped to the ground next to him , huddling close .
please , please be okay , i whispered .
oh , now you want me to be okay , malcolm mumbled .
after tying me up .
i shook with relief that he was talking and still breathing .
i kept pressing the quilt against his arm .
do you know who mightve shot you ?
do you have a jealous ex boyfriend ?
he asked .
a bit of drool clung to the corner of his mouth .
this is nothing to joke about , i snapped .
we need to get you to a doctor .
its not that bad .
his eyes blinked open briefly .
he felt his arm , wincing .
its just a grazing , i think .
not that bad ?
youve been shot !
i felt past the quilt to the cloth napkin tied around his wrists .
the ties had to come off , and i couldnt hide in his shadow forever like a coward .
i had to act .
and it had to be soon .
before this situation got any worse .
my legs trembled and panic set my skin on fire as i scooted around his body .
the barrel of a gun could be pointed right at me , the shooter focused and aiming , waiting for the right moment to pull the trigger .
i tugged at the binds , but they werent called my specialty knots for nothing .
only one thing to do .
this might hurt but i need to pull you to safety while i go for help .
i hooked my arms under his shoulders and pulled .
i heard the ping first and felt the pricks of shattered tree bark against my back .
i dropped to the ground .
sobs ripped from my throat , and i curled into a ball .
that was why i never heard the gun shot .
the gun had a silencer on it , which meant professionals .
savvy ?
what ?
i said in a tiny , scared voice .
come close and listen .
i inched over to his side so i could see his face .
pain flecked his expression from the set of his jaw to the way his eyelids fluttered shut every few seconds .
what ?
i whispered .
i couldnt even hold his hands because they were tied up .
i like you .
a twisted laugh escaped his lips .
i shouldnt .
but i do .
let me get help .
i wanted to reach out and touch his cheek , to comfort him , but i curled my fingers into the grass .
we need to run , he said .
help me up .
what if they shoot again ?
or what if you pass out from blood loss ?
he glanced to the right and left as if hoping to spot the shooter .
if they wanted us dead , wed be dead .
i let his words soak in .
this was a warning ?
for what ?
eating too many chocolat au pains ?
his words puffed out with each breath .
i try .
to bring my dates .
home alive .
their dads like that .
he held his breath and grimaced with pain .
you run one way .
ill run the other .
eiffel .
thirty minutes .
shh .
okay .
i get it .
dont talk anymore .
this time i did run my fingers across his cheek , then i smoothed his hair .
im serious .
go , he barked .
the back of my neck tensed at the urgency in his voice , and i glanced around .
the light from the eiffel tower and the street lamps still cast a romantic glow but this night had become anything but romantic .
most people rushed past us .
we could both stay here all night like sitting ducks , just hoping the shooter would leave us alone .
or i could do as malcolm wanted and run away .
fine .
but i didnt move .
i was rooted to his side , too scared to go , too scared to stay .
i fumbled with the ties .
let me get you untied .
then i heard another ping and the grass tore up next to me .
i smothered a scream , grabbed my bag , and got to my knees .
go !
now !
his voice hitched .
ill slip out of these knots in two seconds .
i choked back a sob .
thirty minutes .
then i ran .
i didnt look back , but flew across the grass toward the main road .
the thought that a bullet could be shooting toward my back made me run faster than id ever run before .
three i flew across the grass , feet pounding , arms pumping .
i wove in and out of the trees , cutting zigzag lines to throw off the invisible shooter .
a cramp gripped my side , but i kept pushing .
what if malcolm was wrong ?
what if the gunman had bad aim or sneezed as he pulled the trigger ?
i zigzagged again .
benches and tourists were a blur as i zipped past .
i wanted to reach out and grab the darkness like a cloak and wrap it around me , but the blazing lights from the eiffel ruined any chances of melting into the night .
hide .
thats what i needed to do .
i pushed harder , almost to the tower .
i ducked behind a group of older men out for a stroll , and then after a glance behind my shoulder , i slid behind a cart and a man selling roses .
immediately i slumped to the ground , my chest heaving .
sweat streamed off me and dripped into my mouth .
i tasted salt .
tears too ?
i breathed in and out .
what the hell just happened ?
someone touched my shoulder with a soft hand .
i scrambled back .
a man with corn silk hair offered me a rose .
the owner of the cart .
i reached out to grab the stem , trying to miss the thorns .
he spoke in french , and i nodded .
merci , i said .
trouble ?
he asked , his brow crinkling with concern .
light danced in his eyes .
he seemed perfectly content to sell roses all day .
just a kind man with probably a simple life , maybe some grandchildren an hour away .
i couldnt get him involved .
no .
i just need to rest .
i assured him , shaking my head .
he didnt seem to understand and went back to selling roses .
i lifted the bloom to my nose and let the soft petals brush against my skin , the sweet smell giving me a false sense of security .
was i safe ?
had the mad man with a license to kill gone home ?
or was he after malcolm ?
damn it .
when would thirty minutes be up ?
i let my head fall against my knees and tried to ignore the guilt .
if i hadnt been all cute and flirty and tied malcolm up , hed be much better off .
he might not have gotten shot .
wait a second .
why did he get shot ?
i wasnt sure i wanted to know .
with each painful minute , i pictured malcolm , running , falling , getting shot .
and then the silent movie would start again and the scene would play over and over .
after what seemed like an extremely long time , i pushed up and peeked around the cart .
my legs cramped and my shoulders felt tight and sore .
i had to be safe , right ?
i hadnt heard any gunshot pings since i ran away , since malcolm got shot , since our date got ruined .
with a slight limp , i walked the perimeter of the eiffel , searching for malcolm .
it would be hard to miss a guy in his underwear .
with every flash of brown hair , my heart leaped .
but it was never him .
i rubbed my shoulders , ignoring the fear squeezing the breath out of my chest .
finally , i leaned against a tree , letting the crowds of people blur in and out .
the boisterous sounds of the late night crowd faded into white noise , and the nice man closed up his cart and left for home .
i wasnt sure how long i stayed or if i even nodded off here and there , but he never came .
malcolm never showed .
i convinced myself he decided to seek medical help , or that he found the shooter and wrestled him to the ground and turned him over to the police .
or that it was too much for him to make it to the eiffel , and he was safe at home , wherever that was .
why hadnt i gotten his phone number ?
clouds passed over the moon , casting a shadow over the city of lights .
shivers racked my body .
the crowds thinned .
thirty minutes had passed several times , and i had to go home .
the next morning , i woke up in a haze .
my head pounded and my heart ached .
somehow id made it home last night , past dad whod fallen asleep reading a dan brown novel , and into the shower .
but no matter how hard id scrubbed , i couldnt wash away the memory of what happened .
id stayed up late into the night , worrying .
throwing aside any dirty clothes , i dug around in my closet and found the box .
the one full of different spy gadgetsgifts from dad , of course .
a beginners code breaker book that i hadnt even cracked the spine on yet , an obnoxious flower pin that doubled as an audio recorder , and i couldnt possibly forget about the black ski cap dad wanted me to wear as a spy games staffer .
i was hoping to find a bulletproof vest or weapon of some sort .
not that we needed weapons for spy games .
the wannabe spies were placed in groups and traipsed across paris together .
i handed out coded clues at the louvre and later tortured the hostage .
pretty boring , actually .
but people seemed to love it .
malcolm .
thoughts of him hovered in the room , not letting go , not leaving me alone .
i liked malcolm .
i liked the lopsided grin he wore when he took my order every morning , already knowing what i wanted .
i liked his polite and kind words when he waited for aimee and me to finish chatting before he presented us the bill .
and i especially liked that he was a cute boy who could speak english .
leaning against the wall , i breathed deep and tried to calm my beating heart .
why did i act so impulsively last night ?
i couldve at least asked him some questions first or talked about my hurt feelings in a rational way .
not put him on trial .
what had i said ?
punishable by death ?
i had to tell dad .
he might wrap me in bubble wrap and metal armor to keep me safe , but hed know what to do about malcolm .
i entered the kitchen .
dad was buried in the morning newspaper , his legs sprawled out to the side of the table .
he had no idea id almost died last night .
i peeled a banana , took one bite , then threw it away .
instead , i poured coffee and drew comfort from three extra sugars .
finally , he peered over the top of the paper for a second , his wave of dark hair slicked to the side .
morning , savvy .
i had to get his nose out of the newspaper .
we need to talk .
sure thing , whats up ?
but he kept reading , as usual .
its serious .
more serious than whatever drama he was reading about .
he folded the newspaper and looked at me with scared eyes , scared in the way that he might have to buy tampons or something .
my mouth went dry and i struggled to find the right words .
savvy ?
he put the newspaper down , his full attention on me .
right .
something kinda happened last night .
with malcolm ?
dad sat straighter and his voice became sharp .
if he so much as touched a hair on your head whoa !
calm down .
i held up my hands .
malcolm didnt do anything .
warmth spread through my chest .
dad hadnt shown he cared this much since i lost my luggage on our flight to france .
id freaked out because it had the scrapbook my friends made me as a goodbye gift , and hed been so concerned .
i looked at a clump of dried gel hanging from a hair above dads ear , anywhere but at his eyes .
i didnt want to see his reaction to me getting shot at .
we were walking near the eiffel tower .
he had this wonderful picnic dad lowered his eyebrows until they practically touched his nose .
did you say the eiffel tower ?
yeah , um .
i searched for the right words but they wouldnt come .
there was a shooting last night by the eiffel .
did you see or hear anything ?
pff , no .
crap .
that was my chance to tell all .
why did i blow it ?
maybe dad knew something .
did anyone get hurt ?
were any bodies found ?
the news didnt say , but im glad youre safe .
maybe you should stay home today and skip spy games .
dad picked up the paper again like the decision was made .
i knew right then i couldnt say a word about what happened .
not if i ever wanted any kind of social life again .
id have to take care of malcolm myself .
somehow .
oh , man , but i was so excited for spy games today !
really ?
dad perked up .
hed been trying to get me excited about his new line of work since wed arrived .
he must have recognized my less than enthusiastic interactions with the wannabe spies , i mean clients .
definitely .
well , okay .
but i want you to be careful .
his eyes narrowed as if suddenly deciding to be interested in my life , my real life , not just what he saw on the outside .
so what happened on your date ?
you could say it was an adventure .
more like a horror movie .
but i didnt even care anymore why malcolm asked me on the date .
i cared if id accidentally had a hand in killing him .
dad straightened the paper .
ah , here it is .
the shooting .
right next to the stories about some big pastry extravaganza contest and a dog show .
oh your mom wouldve loved the dog show , all the fluffy dogs prancing around ... . his voice trailed off and the white elephant a.k.a .
mom that had wedged itself permanently between dad and me made its appearance .
he gazed off , memories of past times flashing across his face , times when she was around .
my legs jiggled up and down , fighting off the dread .
i missed mom too , but i had to know malcolm made it .
dad ?
the shooting ?
oh , right .
the paper says the police found evidence of a shooting and lots of blood .
but nothing else .
no sign of anything .
theyre combing the seine for a body .
did that mean malcolm might have died ?
maybe someone killed him , wrapped him up in the quilt and threw him in the river ?
my face prickled and fear spiraled up through my chest .
i leaned over and fiddled with my shoelaces .
i left a guy half naked by the eiffel tower last night , alone and bleeding .
i wanted to rush the three steps across the kitchenette and hang my head over the sink and puke my guts out .
four you look pale .
dad sounded like he cared .
are you feeling okay ?
yeah .
except id made a huge mistake .
i never shouldve tried to play the role of the flirty date .
i never shouldve tied him up .
what had i been thinking ?
ive been meaning to talk to you .
he folded his newspaper twice over , which always meant the talk was serious .
usually it meant chatting about my future , especially since i was eighteen .
this year i was exploring my options before college , in other words , helping my dad with the business , while experiencing a new culture .
can we talk later ?
my words came out kind of breathless , like id run ten miles .
im meeting aimee early this morning .
and i had to see about a body .
he clasped his hands together .
i guess .
well talk later then .
i nodded while under the table i dug my fingernails into the palms of my hands .
i had to know if malcolm was okay .
maybe hed gotten home last night , wrapped up his arm , and would be at work today .
i hoped .
okay , but be careful .
stay with the crowds .
he pushed back the chair and it banged into the cupboard .
he dumped the rest of his cold coffee into the sink .
you up for the fiver or the tenner this afternoon ?
maybe tomorrow .
and then i felt worse , if that was possible .
i hadnt run more than a mile since we got to france .
great .
ill be at the warehouse preparing for the debriefing at nine sharp .
ill see you there .
i nodded and downed a glass of water before slipping outside .
resting my head against the front door , i traced my fingers along the grains of wood .
dad wanted to talk to me , really talk to me , and id said no ?
what if hed wanted to tell me about mom ?
or say he was sorry ?
that had to wait .
my priority was finding malcolm .
i turned to leave and tripped over a brown paper package on the step .
every piece of mail we get addressed to mom makes her absence that much worse .
she should be here to get them herself .
i kicked it off to the side and it landed behind a bush with a satisfying thud .
the birds singing in the trees needed to be shot .
i sprinted to the corner before slowing to a jog .
prayers slipped from my lips , me making a deal with god .
something about malcolm being alive and at work , and me never eating cookies again .
aimee waved ecstatically from the far corner of les pouffants , our favorite caf .
i speed walked through the black wrought iron tables searching everywhere , behind every person and pillar .
no sign of malcolm .
oof !
i walked right into a big somebody .
excuse moi , madamoiselle !
his big round belly puffed into me , knocking me back , and his long , curly grey beard had bits of frosting stuck in it .
cinnamon dusted his shoulders .
he frowned at me , his shaggy eyebrows almost touching his nose .
im so sorry , i mumbled , then rushed past him .
aimee had already ordered for me an extra tall latte and a croissant filled with strips of chocolate .
oo la la , you look terrible !
the sun gilded aimees blonde frizzy hair and speckled her blue eyes .
you know that was the pouffant of les pouffants who you just bumped into .
i waved my hand .
i had bigger concerns than poofy pastry chefs .
as soon as my butt hit the chair , i opened two menus and propped them at the edge of our table .
i leaned forward and nibbled on my croissant .
what is up ?
she asked .
i wrapped my hands around the warmth of the cup .
i dont think i can do spy games today .
she crinkled her nose and laughed .
you are never in the mood .
have you talked to your papa about this yet ?
no .
i poked my finger into the melting chocolate , which id normally be devouring .
but have you talked with your grandmother about backpacking across the world yet ?
and touring ancient castles ?
aimee puckered her lips to the side .
no .
that is different .
customers streamed in and out of the caf , a sea of strangers , but none of them were malcolm .
if he didnt walk out of the caf in the next minute , id scream .
after tapping the side of her cup and staring intensely , aimee squealed .
i can not stand it anymore .
stand what ?
i tested my latte before taking a sip .
your date !
with the cute waiter ?
shh .
i didnt want to talk to aimee about my date .
her friendship was too important .
what if she wrote me off as a total jerk ?
and then slowly backed out of our friendship ?
i couldnt handle losing my only friend .
aimee waved her hand .
put away the menus .
he did not show for work this morning .
i gagged on my drink and spit it out on the patio .
what ?
he did not show .
i already asked .
images of malcolm being pulled from the bottom of the seine flashed in front of me , his body deathly white , eyes vacantly staring at me .
i groaned .
i have heard that groan before .
after you used your papas spy equipment to see if he ever talked to your mother and he caught you .
i fiddled with the menu and sipped my latte .
i tried to focus on the good parts of last night the picnic and the effort malcolm took to make it romantic , probably spending the last of his money for the week .
i remembered his quick kiss .
i remembered his fine looking bare chest .
but the color red bled into my images and ruined the memory .
share now , before i make a scene .
aimee stared me down , her grip tightening on her cup , and the blue flecks in her eyes turning stormy .
i whipped the cash out of my shoulder bag and slammed it on the table next to a small metal tray .
weve got to go .
now !
something must be terribly wrong if you leave half your latte .
aimee placed her hand on my arm .
what happened ?
i combed my fingers through my hair and tried not to hyperventilate .
ill tell you on the way .
lets go .
i grabbed the tray from the table , and while aimee fiddled with her chair , i shoved the tray up my shirt .
a girl can never have too much protection .
we half ran , half walked toward the eiffel .
when we were almost there , i breathed a bit easier .
within minutes id know whether or not my date took a big drink in the seine .
a little out of breath , aimee said , start talking .
thats what i loved about her .
ever since we met , she always cared .
wanting to know what was wrong without wanting anything back .
i took several deep breaths then summed up the previous evening .
beautiful sunset .
sparkling cider .
fruit filled pastries .
great conversation .
a kiss .
aimee clasped her hands together with a dreamy look on her face .
sounds romantic .
then i told her the rest , almost .
i talked about his admission of guilt and the mock trial .
and the part where i tied him up and the fact that malcolm wears boxer briefs , not tighty whities .
when i tried to talk about the shooting and that i didnt know if he was dead or alive , my throat closed up .
i couldnt do it .
at first , her face showed nothing .
then her lips twitched , and her eyes crinkled .
she lowered her head while her shoulders shook .
several times , she tried to rein it in and act casual but to no avail .
go ahead .
laugh .
i get it .
im an idiot .
but the truth was nothing to laugh at .
she stopped giggling , wiped at her tears , and then grabbed my hand .
oh , savvy .
how do you get into these messes ?
no clue .
i just need to know he escaped .
a part of me wished id told her the truth .
im positive someone found him last night after you left .
im sure .
she cocked her head and suppressed a grin .
almost sure .
at the eiffel tower , i sprinted toward our picnic spot , with aimee right behind me .
the cops were already gone .
the river searched .
not even a bit of yellow police tape was visible .
the dewy grass soaked my sneakers , and i shivered at the bite in the air .
he was nowhere .
you sure about all this ?
aimee asked , a hand on my arm .
yeah , im sure .
i slumped to the ground , not caring that my homemade bullet proof vest jabbed into my stomach or that the wet dew was seeping into my pants , and id have a spot on my butt for the next hour .
what if he was lying in a foreign hospital or tied up as a hostage ?
i couldnt let myself think he mightve died .
what if something terrible happened ?
i doubt that .
aimee crouched next to me .
do you like him ?
heck , no .
even if i did , what did it matter ?
hed gone missing and could very well be dead .
and i had no idea why or what he was mixed up in .
aimee nodded as if to say , yeah right .
then she tapped her watch .
you might not get fired from this job because your dad is the boss , but i can .
she stood and slung her backpack over her shoulder .
the whole ride on the metro , i tried not to think about malcolm .
we got off at our stop after throwing out all sorts of conspiracy theories like my dad being overprotective and sending his goons to shadow us or malcolm working for the mafia .
but i had bigger things to worry about .
like what the hell happened to malcolm .
five aimee and i arrived outside the dirty white warehouse known as spy headquarters seconds to nine .
weeds spilled out of the cracked pavement and black and red spray paint dripped down the walls .
overall , it was kind of creepyexactly what dad wanted .
i gripped the metal handle , and the door opened with a familiar screech .
once the door closed behind me , i felt safe from any random , unexplained bullets .
in one of the office turned dressing rooms , we rushed to change our clothes , put on our gear , and then get in position for our grand entrance .
when aimee wasnt looking , i ditched my armor , but it wouldnt be for long .
every noise that sounded close to a ping or ricochet sent fear coursing through my veins .
a serving tray could possibly save my life .
maybe .
aimee climbed the steps on the side of the warehouse , and i followed .
newly spun webs clung to my face and neck .
i brushed them off with one swipe .
at the top , aimee and i helped each other hook the zip line cables onto our belts and tighten the safety straps .
then step by step , keeping my eyes focused on the back of aimees head and not the fifty foot drop , i sidestepped a rafter to our position .
my fingers dug into the support beam .
you can do it !
aimee whispered .
as we inched closer to our take off spot , i watched my coworkers perched like pigeons , waiting patiently .
gray chalston , dads right hand man , always coordinated the staff and made sure the games ran smoothly .
frankie newtz , the eccentric guy in his twenties who still wasnt sure what to do with his life , played a great psychopath , miscreant , hostage , murderer , whatever the games called for .
his wild red hair and acne scars just added to it .
nancy jergen , a housewife from upstate new york who loved to wield a gun , thank god they were never loaded , played the double agent .
and then there was aimee and me , the lowly informants .
they all nodded hello .
dad had strict ordersno talking in the rafters .
my palms grew sweaty , like last time .
this was our second round with the grand entrance , and the drop scared the crap out of me .
the spies trickled in , timid at first at the large empty space and the cold cement floor .
no chairs or tables or water coolers were in sight .
or free , tasteless coffee .
look at them , i whispered .
a group of balding men walked in wearing trench coats .
true wannabes .
they wore sunglasses and carried backpacks probably filled with spy gadgets theyd bought off ebay .
i couldnt look down for long because my stomach felt queasy and vertigo hit me like a sugar high .
aimee had no problem standing on the roof rafter after all , she was the one who wanted to climb mountains .
not me .
i rubbed my arms .
it was damp and the chill started in my toes and coiled around my body until i was shivering like a naked spy on a rooftop in january .
and then this macho man breezed through the entrance , full of swagger , wearing leather pants and sunglasses .
he posed in the middle of the room , ready , willing , and waiting for danger .
the ultimate spy .
i made a mental note to stay away from him .
his stomach pouched over the edge of his pants as if hed eaten one too many donuts , and when it came to hair gel , he was my dads twin .
the beam beneath my feet creaked .
i swayed and clenched my teeth to hold my breakfast back .
the smell of bat excrement made me feel positively sick .
aimee nudged me .
it is about to start .
a light sweat formed on my body as our time to plummet towards the cement floor drew near .
i checked and rechecked my cables and attachments .
a cold draft sent goosebumps down my legs .
maybe id end up in a hospital next to malcolm .
or the morgue .
aimee whispered , you can do this .
doesnt mean i want to .
gray gave us a stern look to stop talking .
as soon as dad strode through the side door , his boots echoing on the cement , everyone quieted .
kind of like when god created the earth , i imagined .
dad evoked this kind of scary presence when he was in full spy games mode .
by his long stride and the swish of his leather pants , the sway of his shoulders and his slicked back hair , they would never know that six months ago he sold herbal remedies to constipated old ladies .
unfortunately , his dramatic efforts worked on everyone but me .
that was because id seen him in his sweats , singing to barry manilow , while he burned our instant mac and cheese .
dad took full advantage of everyones gawking stares .
he glanced around as if a hundred men in black suits with ear buds were about to burst through the door .
it was all part of the act .
we have a serious situation .
his deep booming voice bounced off the walls and echoed between the rafters .
a high profile executive has been taken for ransom .
its your job to follow the clues and save him .
before its too late .
the warehouse door screeched open , and everyone looked .
malcolm entered .
malcolm ?
he was alive !
joy burst through my veins and flooded my body .
a zillion ton weight lifted off me , and i felt like i could float off the beam if i let go .
we needed to throw confetti and drink lemonade because i wasnt a murderer after all .
malcolm strode across the room and i drank in the sight of him , his moving limbs , his chest rising up and down as he breathed !
he settled into the back of the crowd , cool and composed .
the instantaneous burst of joy over the fact i wasnt a murderer faded , and my blood went from simmering to boiling .
all this time , i believed he couldve been dead .
he couldve called , texted , or thrown pebbles at my window .
anything !
he probably didnt show up to work at les pouffants just to torture me .
i leaned slightly forward to catch a look at his guilty face .
i felt a spinning sensation before i realized i was falling forward .
i desperately reached for aimee , swinging my arms wildly .
she caught the edge of my shirt , but gravity ripped it from her hands .
air whooshed around me and i forgot all proper form in free falling .
my stomach dropped .
images of me going splat on the cement floor flashed through my mind .
my whole body jerked , and it felt like my arms were going to be ripped from their sockets .
i stopped , suspended in the air about ten feet from my rafter , high above the heads of the wannabes who were so into my dad they didnt notice a thing .
i swung back and forth , dangling from a wire .
gray held the line , and i silently pled with him to pull me back up .
clearly , he needed to develop his skills of telepathy .
sweat tickled my armpits and dotted my forehead as the cement and the heads of the people swung back and forth in my vision .
malcolm became a blur .
i was stuck until it was time to drop .
id look like a loser , but i didnt care .
solid ground .
nice , hard cement under my feet .
that was all i cared about .
dad continued with his speech , obviously not aware that with one slip of grays hands , his one and only daughter could become a floor decoration .
youll have to work together or it will be very hard for your team to succeed i blocked the rest out .
i just wanted to stop swinging like a monkey .
and heres the staff to help you with your spy mission today .
give a hand to nancy !
crap .
nancy swooped past me to the cheering of the crowd .
dad boomed out their names as they dropped down .
frankie .
then aimee .
of course , they all performed perfectly .
one leg down , one leg bent in the wire hook , one arm holding on , and one arm out kinda cheesy if you asked me .
they all landed with grace and style .
and then there was me .
six dad cleared his throat after an awkward silence .
blood rushed to my face , mostly because i was tilting forward .
and folks , heres savvy , he said gray slowly let out the line and my body lowered , one painful yard at a time .
my limbs hung useless , the halter riding up between my legs .
i begged the spy gods to whisk me away , somewhere , anywhere .
the ground drew closer , and i tried to get my feet to land first .
but i just ended up flopping around like a fish on a hook .
after minutes of ultimate humiliation , i hovered inches from the ground , close enough to kiss the dirty cement .
a part of me wanted to , and i swear i heard a snicker .
maybe it was malcolm .
aimee helped me to my feet and guided me over to the rest of the staff .
i walked past the macho man and noted his name cliff peyton .
frankie winked at me .
i refused to look at malcolm , and i didnt have to look at my dad .
disappointment rolled off him in tsunami like waves .
i wanted to burst out that id tried , but the guy i thought id killed just showed up alive .
i grabbed the easel and paints for my next part of spy games and left before anyone could tell me what a spy dork i was and that i should set up a cart and sell friendship bracelets for the rest of my life .
as i traveled to the louvre , i needed a release , something to focus on besides the major malcolm rage ripping through me .
that distraction came in pieces of colored candy .
after shoving a handful of skittles into my mouth and stuffing the package back in my bag , i strode into the humongous courtyard of the palace of medieval kings .
it surrounded me on three sides , with turrets , arched entranceways , and fancy stone work that made me want to wear a bustle and carry a parasol .
every time , no fail , it sent a thrill through my chest , but all i could focus on was the metal tray pressed against my skin .
my homemade bulletproof vest .
thats right .
after my humiliating fall from the rafters , i shoved that baby right back into place before leaving the warehouse .
a wind blew through , and i held the beret against my head as i gripped my art supplies .
every few seconds , i couldnt help but glance around for anyone suspicious holding a sniper rifle .
i hurried through the early crowds and into the glass pyramid , smack dab in the middle of the courtyard , which leads downstairs to the information desk and into the museum .
a special tag allowed me to bypass buying a ticket .
sweet deal .
aimee and i played informants .
at the louvre , i passed off an envelope to the spy teams filled with crucial information in exchange for money .
she worked the eiffel .
there was something very satisfying about collecting stacks of green .
it wasnt real money , of course , but it looked it .
if someone found a stack lying on the side of the street , they wouldnt know it was fake until they were tracked down and thrown in jail for counterfeiting .
walking through the hallways that would soon be bustling with tourists , i headed to the vien room on the second floor .
in a flash , my easel was set up , canvas ready to go , and paints in hand .
i loved being the first in the large room , enjoying the company of the masterpieces on the wall .
only a small bench with black padding decorated the room .
the paintings more than made up for the lack of fancy furniture .
these quiet moments alone were the hardest because inevitably they gave me time to think .
and the only thought crossing my mind was that someone shot at me the night before .
inspired by the old masters and with a shaky hand , i added a few brilliant strokes to my half finished masterpiece of a naked angel with wingsa cherub kissing the forehead of a half clothed female .
i blew it a kiss .
magnifico !
thats bloody nice work , a male voice with a hot english accent said behind me .
been working on it for a long time ?
i peeked over my right shoulder .
a young man with long bushy hair covering his eyes set up his easel near mine .
great .
a real art student .
hed never understand my job .
and i wasnt in the mood to explain .
if you need any tips on the naked part , let me know .
maybe i could be of help .
he didnt even try to hide the innuendo .
perv .
i bit back my retort and focused on the wings , squiggling my brush down the canvas , and i hoped he wouldnt spot me for what i wasa total fake .
he turned his back to me with a toss of his scraggly hair .
with my eye on my watch and my arm poised to paint , the first spy group entered the room .
they stuck out like a finger painting next to a van gogh , their rainy day trench coats and sunglasses screaming wannabe .
huddled in a group by the opposite doorway , they searched for the struggling art student a.k.a. , me .
by the end of the four hours theyd be knocking out bad guys in a cutthroat race for the prize .
oo la la !
what a gorgeous painting !
with a dramatic flourish , i finished off the wings .
just being here among the masters fills my soul with love .
do they always dress like that ?
the art student nodded toward the amateur spies as one of them crossed the room .
he pushed his hair away from his face and revealed his familiar face .
malcolm !
he was wearing a wig !
what are you doing here ?
i muttered out of the corner of my mouth while keeping my eyes glued on my wing , which looked slightly like a burnt marshmallow .
he stopped painting and turned his gray eyes on me .
not even a glad to see youre alive ?
glad to see youre alive , i managed , controlling my rage .
while i thought he might be dead , he played jokes !
at that point , i almost reverted back to kindergarten coloring and painted a bright yellow sun in the sky , because the spy team had split up and were asking anyone with a scarf wrapped around his neck , the prepared question .
how could they not recognize the girl who fell from the ceiling with the safety straps riding up her butt ?
i was right in front of them .
i pulled out my ponytail to help them recognize my long dark hair and jacked my voice up an octave .
i study painting under the great gloria van deusel .
and she is ze most wonderful teacher .
i just love painting and being an art student so much .
malcolm snorted .
you might want to work on that accent .
your fake british accent isnt much better .
i shot back .
i wanted to ask him how he managed to escape the night before and if his arm was okay , but i couldnt stop the angry words from spilling out .
i thought you were dead .
he narrowed his eyes but didnt have time to explain because a wannabe spy approached him and not me .
all my arm waving and mixtures of italian and french had been pointless .
the older woman , with long , graying hair up in a bun , tapped him on the shoulder .
excuse moi ?
malcolm thickened his accent and branched off into the subtleties of shadowing techniques .
the lady glanced back at her team and shrugged .
they waved her on and pointed toward me .
and then because i was afraid malcolm would screw it up , i leaned over and said , i can help you , miss .
she read from a note in her hand .
do they sell blueberry scones ?
i gave my scripted line .
no , but there is a caf nearby where you can find a cream puff .
then i dug into my satchel and handed her an envelope .
i dropped my satchel on the ground behind me and continued to paint while she dropped the money rolls into my bag .
she rushed back to her group , waving the envelope in the air .
good thing our national security wasnt on the line , or wed all be dead .
something to talk to dad about .
i smoothed down my artists smock and worked on mixing the right shade of green for the grassy hillside .
i cant believe you followed me here , i whispered .
havent you caused enough trouble ?
me ?
malcolm didnt look at me but mixed his paints .
the least you could do is say youre sorry .
im pretty forgiving .
with each stroke of my paintbrush , my rage simmered , bubbling , ready to explode .
seriously ?
after the stunt you pulled this morning , im not the one who should be apologizing .
after that we both turned to our easels .
i painted the same blade of grass over and over , basically ruining my painting , and malcolms arm whipped back and forth across the canvas in jerky movements .
the next team that came through did better , until they shoved the money roll into my satchel .
as soon as they turned to leave , malcolm jabbed his paintbrush at me .
pecan brown splattered across my face .
what stunt ?
he demanded .
at least i didnt take your clothes off and tie you up .
i ignored the slam .
what stunt ?
my throat ached but i held back the sob .
the one where you told me to run from the shooting and then never met me again .
i didnt know if you were dead or alive .
you didnt show up to work and then sauntered into spy games like a king .
that stunt .
i had to completely turn away before i throttled him .
tears burned .
the hard tone in his voice softened .
i didnt realize you cared .
of course , i cared , i left my date bleeding to death with some madman on the loose .
i told you it was just a grazing .
his voice dropped lower and he nudged me with his elbow .
admit it .
you think im cute , dont you ?
it was my turn to splatter him with paint .
hardly .
though you do have an odd way of showing it .
he rubbed the red marks on his wrists from the ties .
i refused to feel guilty .
at the time i had my reasons .
he placed his oil paints onto the stool next to him and stepped closer to me .
arent you the least bit interested in what happened ?
im glad youre alive .
but no !
i grabbed my bag from the floor and used it as a shield .
a guard sauntered across the room , close enough to listen .
malcolm put his hands on the bag and tried to keep me from backing away .
you can at least let me explain !
i pulled back , hard , and pushed him away with my right foot .
never !
tears burned and the emotion of the night before and this morning caught up to me .
he fell back on his butt , except he never let go of my bag .
i lunged for the handle , and we fought in a tug of war .
with one final yank , i ripped it from his hands .
the momentum pulled me back and i flailed my arms for balance .
green bills fluttered in the air as i lost my hold .
tiny rainbow colored pebbles seemed to float in the air around us .
shock crossed malcolms face and he paled .
the guard raced forward .
i cringed as the candy hit the floor like an avalanche and skittered across the tiles to the far reaches of the room .
im sorry , malcolm gasped out .
you had food ?
in the louvre ?
i could have sworn the whole room , even the walls , gasped , and the angel in the painting smirked .
damn .
seven ack !
id forgotten to throw out the rest of my skittles .
i dropped to the ground , scooping up the money by armfuls and shoving it into my bag .
before i could pick up the candy , the guard stepped up to me .
sil vous plait .
come with me .
great .
one more spy team was set to come through , and i was screwed .
or they were because their informant wouldnt be here .
i gathered my stuff , collapsed the easel , and flashed a scathing look at malcolm .
on the way down to the museum offices , i texted aimee asking her to switch spots with me , quickly .
thirty minutes later after lots of hand motions because my french sucked , and after the guards found my dads phone number in their files , they kicked me out .
for good .
as soon as i stepped from the pyramid entrance into the courtyard , a blast of wind hit me .
savvy !
a voice called .
i peeked through my medusa like hair to see aimee waving furiously as she ran toward me .
i yanked the artist smock over my head .
here !
quick change .
she ripped off the burnt orange pea coat and handed it to me .
youd better hurry .
i know .
i know .
can we meet up later at les pouffants ?
oui , see you there .
aimee flew into the pyramid clutching the easel and satchel , just as peyton and his group arrived in the courtyard .
talk about good timing .
they pointed at the turrets and stone arches , oohing and aahing , then peyton rushed them into the louvre .
i left the fledgling spies and malcolm behind , hurried across the courtyard , and grabbed a taxi .
at the eiffel i threw a bunch of bills at the driver , and then hoped they werent the spy games counterfeit ones .
i sprinted across the grass , dodging tourists , and passed the first leg of the tower .
i flashed my special spy games pass and bypassed the line for the elevator on the ground .
weaving in and out of the tourists , i raced to the first floor .
all three hundred steps .
with my chest heaving and my breath shooting out in short gasps , i waited in a shorter line for the elevator .
after the ride up , the doors slid open at the tippy top , and i burst out .
i pulled my coat together and folded my arms .
if i thought it was windy at the louvre , here at the top of the world , it quadrupled a million times .
a narrow walkway circled the top of the eiffel , and the city of paris was spread out before me .
crisp air filled my lungs as i entwined my fingers through the mesh cage .
the seine snaked across the land , and the bridges looked like lego pieces .
tips of skyscrapers poked at the sky in the distance .
but what always amazed me was the wide expanse of blue , like i was overlooking the entire world .
after taking a few deep breaths , i turned and leaned my back against the wire cage .
tourists passed me in a blur .
my eyes went out of focus until i caught a flash of blue go by .
i recognized it , a scarf with threads of a paisley blue and yellow , and the lady had brown hair .
i squinted and my heart dropped straight to the ground floor .
mom ?
i whispered .
the lady slipped into the crowds like any other tourist .
it had to be her .
mom had shoulder length brown hair that she claimed grew one inch every ten years .
i followed blindly , weaving in and around tourists , probably pissing them off , but i had to know .
i followed the memory of my moms hazel eyes , her smile , her laugh .
i followed the few happy memories i had and the crazy wish she were here , looking for me .
excuse moi ?
someone tugged on my coat , but i brushed them away .
the blue and yellow scarf teased me , bobbing in and out of the crowds .
and then i heard a desperate voice .
i found the scones but where can i find a root beer float ?
the words yanked me back into the real world .
i stopped and turned around .
recognition flashed across the womans face .
she tucked a strand of graying hair back into her bun .
i whipped open my bag .
take the clue .
the eiffel tower clue was a basic code that sent them off on a treasure hunt through the most famous historical sites of paris .
for them , that was when it got fun , because frankie shot blanks at them in empty alleyways .
he got their adrenaline pumping .
she seemed a little unsure , so i nodded .
as soon as she had the clue , i took off after the lady with the scarf .
id probably lost her for good .
after circling the lookout tower several times and handing out another clue , my energy petered out and i sagged against the mesh cage .
id always imagined mom visiting and walking with me through the louvre .
wed quiz each other on which painters went with which paintings .
and then after wed toured the eiffel and had our fill of culture and history , wed go find some off the grid patisserie and sit for hours , sipping lattes .
and i could ask her why the hell she left .
obnoxious laughter carried on a breeze .
cliff peyton .
great .
i so wasnt in the mood for his tude .
peyton pointed in my direction .
i closed my eyes , to center myself .
this was a job .
he was a regular guy who would be out of my life in fifteen minutes .
then i could look for mom .
he sent a youngish woman from his group over to me .
her blonde hair fell right below her chin and swished back and forth .
i put my hand on my bag .
excuse me , i mean , excuse moi ?
her voice was just above a whisper .
i nodded at her .
do you know where i could buy some root beer ?
oh , crap .
i hated when they screwed up the line .
dad had strict orders to not help them out .
at all .
period .
sorry , i dont .
i walked away .
she tried again and still messed up .
she said something about a dr. pepper float .
jeez .
the lady with the blue scarf passed us .
the spy games client tried again .
i found the scones i cut her off in the middle of her sentence .
with not so gentle a nudge , i pushed her aside and sprinted .
no games this time .
paisley scarf lady was only a few feet away , just out of reach of my fingertips .
i dodged an older woman with a baby and grabbed my mom .
she turned , and the fringes of her scarf hit my cheek .
i stared , mouth agape , as french flowed from her mouth in angry currents .
mom couldnt speak french to save her life .
and i know the last time i saw her she didnt have green eyes or a large mole on her chin with two black hairs sprouting from it .
ew .
even so , it was mom , and she pretended not to know me .
her look softened and she grasped my hands .
my dear , are you okay ?
before she could let go of my hands , i babbled out some words , sounding like a nervous twelve year old about to give an oral report .
where have you been ?
she leaned closer and whispered , did a package arrive for me ?
hot tears filled my eyes , but i refused to let them fall .
that was all she could say to me ?
whats going on ?
discreetly , she whispered , if and when it arrives , dont open it .
hide it in a closet or better yet , burn it .
can you do this for me ?
where are you staying ?
youve got to call dad , let him know youre here .
savvy , this is important .
you must follow my directions .
i dont want you getting involved .
sure , i got it .
she glanced to the left and right and squeezed my hand .
they probably already know you are in france .
please , her voice grew desperate , dont do anything out of the ordinary .
act like a teenager .
eat croissants .
shop .
sightsee .
then she started mumbling and i wasnt sure if she was talking to me or not .
mom ?
she snapped out of it .
shh .
they could have spies watching us right now .
they already took a dear friend of mine .
i wont let them take you too .
huh ?
listen .
her words rushed out .
in a couple weeks there is a big pastry event near the apartment .
near les pouffants .
meet me there .
ill find you .
promise ?
i promise .
what had gotten into her ?
she walked away like she didnt even know me .
mom !
i called .
we had a museum to visit and lattes to drink .
and damn it i wanted an explanation .
she turned back toward me with a finger to her lips and fear in her eyes .
she shook her head and disappeared into the crowds .
what had happened to my business like mom who wasnt scared of anything ?
the one always rushing off on trips for her scrapbooking business or locked away in her bedroom , working .
i didnt know the mom who wore disguises and told me to burn packages .
but after years of being so busy with work , she needed my help .
after leaving dad and me two years ago , did i want to help ?
i wasnt sure , but i did know one thing .
i couldnt wait to get home and open that package .
someone gently shook me , but i couldnt move from the mom stupor that had fallen over me .
another shake .
savvy !
i snapped out of it .
aimees hair looked a bit on the fritz , windblown strands falling in front of her face .
her eyes , wide with panic , darted left and right .
whats wrong ?
i asked .
never mind that .
we have got to get out of here .
that guy is crazy .
she tugged on my arm and dragged me toward the elevator .
i messed up .
it happened so fast , and i was not sure what to do .
an angry voice pierced the air .
i cant believe you !
aimee groaned .
i gritted my teeth and nodded toward peyton , who stormed toward us .
you mean that guy ?
oui , aimee whispered , inching toward the door while holding my arm in a death grip .
eight peytons eyes burned into me like they were lasers and i was a metal wall he was trying to blast through .
he pointed to his right .
this woman from my group managed to say the right words and you completely ignored her .
i ... im sorry .
how would peyton understand that id seen my mom and then received a strange message from her ?
he wouldnt .
i gave him my mean , terrible , you should be scared of me look .
as staff , you are supposed to do everything possible to fulfill our spy experience .
not only did you both screw up at the louvre , but my eyes widened .
oh , yes .
i know all about that .
not only did you fail there but you did here too .
he put his face inches from mine .
spit hit me as he spoke .
your friend here was not allowed access to the museum , so we couldnt get our clue .
he whipped his head toward her .
and then she refused to give it to me .
i had to call mr .
bent .
aimee half sobbed , her fingernails jabbed into my arm .
i am sorry .
i was not sure what to do .
i wanted you to have the full spy experience .
i thought mr .
bent might have an alternate plan for you .
and then the guards led me away .
i cringed .
not good at all .
completely by accident , wed sent this man over the edge , although he must have been pretty close anyway .
cliff peyton kept his face inches from mine .
his breath made me gag .
he would never understand about my mom .
and what could i say ?
the louvre was my fault .
and malcolms .
aimees grip loosened on my arm , and she moved between peyton and me .
after clearing her throat , she said in a loud , shaky voice , you need to leave , sir .
he jabbed a finger into her chest , pushing her into me .
you were both probably in on it .
is that what you do for fun ?
pick one guy in the room and screw up his day ?
i slipped my hand into hers , squeezing .
you need to find your group .
with one last grunt and glare at aimee , he strode away .
clearly the guy had more problems than just us .
he acted more like a teenager than we did .
at the door to the elevator , he turned and pointed at us .
this isnt over !
as soon as he was gone , aimee turned and hugged me .
oo , i am so sorry .
i made things worse .
i should have given him the clue .
i placed my hands on her shoulders .
this was not your fault .
i started it when i brought candy into the louvre .
aimee shook her head .
you made a mistake .
that is no reason for him to lose it .
i tucked her hair behind her ears .
i have to head on over to the hostage site so i dont screw up that too .
why dont you go home and soak in the tub and eat your grandmothers cookies .
ill explain everything to my dad .
that would be nice , but no .
aimee set her jaw and the fear left her eyes .
i am going to follow him .
i pulled her off to the side .
but why ?
hes totally psycho .
no telling what hell do .
i will be fine .
i want to make sure he treats the rest of his spy group okay .
if not , then i will have proof against him if he causes problems for us later .
she didnt need to say it .
she wanted proof so my dad wouldnt fire her .
i knew better than to say anything .
good luck and stay safe , i said , and after a quick hug , she left .
i waited while the few tourists wed attracted got bored with staring .
i needed to shrug this off .
i had a hostage to torture in a couple of hours , but i couldnt forget about the package .
it wasnt like mom was asking me to kill someone , but it was contact .
still , i wasnt sure i was ready to accept it with no explanations .
after handing out the coded messages at the eiffel , i shifted my armor back into place and headed to the hostage sitea small room in the back of the galagnani bookstore along the jardin des tuileries .
the spy teams would arrive after a couple hours of breaking codes and finding clues hidden among famous churches , gardens , and historical hot spots .
the first team to free the hostage would win the game .
unfortunately , all we could offer were cheap trophies as prizes .
the past few times , id arrived early and frankie and id played card games .
ive beaten him at war like five times .
i entered the bookstore and navigated the narrow aisles with books towering on either side of me .
they let us use a small storage room in the back .
frankie nodded when i entered , his red frizz just long enough to flop in and out of his eyes with every nod .
freckles dotted his arms and face .
he already had the cards set up on an overturned crate .
first , i strapped on my belt and gunned the electric screwdriver , which is great for prying secrets out of scared hostages .
oo , scary .
frankie mocked .
thats right , i said in my most threatening tone .
dont ever think about crossing me .
my cell phone vibrated .
bonjour , i said , happy to be in torture mode and forgetting everything else .
hopefully , the caller was aimee telling me one of the groups was on their way .
you in position , savvy ?
dad asked .
i gulped .
cliff peyton had called my dad .
a client had never called my dad on me .
i flashed back to the crazy look in peytons eye and the anger rolling off of him over what was a minor offense .
so i screwed up .
i admitted it .
but something was totally off with him .
dad really needed to do background checks or something .
just strapping on my belt , i said .
have any of the groups made it there yet ?
maybe he was going to let the whole cliff thing drop .
not yet .
mr. peyton called me twice .
he was extremely volatile .
crap .
and ?
are you okay ?
the hint of concern in his voice caused mine to shake .
im fine .
just getting ready to torture frankie .
why ?
and did you know i saw mom ?
stay there .
im stuck in traffic .
maybe you should dad ?
no answer except the empty silence of a lost connection .
great .
i sensed a huge lecture in my near future .
i shut the phone and jammed it into my bag .
id tried .
id given them the best spy experience i possibly could , but there was no way i couldve foreseen the complications that came with someone like cliff peyton .
if malcolm hadnt shown up to harass me at the louvre , none of this wouldve happened .
malcolm again .
it seemed to always come back to him .
frankie and i squeezed in a few games of war .
i lost .
twice .
it was hard to focus even on a game that required no strategy .
in the middle of our third game , frankie jerked straight and cocked his head .
did you hear that ?
i tapped the crate .
you cant fool me .
dont try and get out of losing .
im about to kick your butt .
i can feel it .
we played a few more cards .
frankie stopped again , poised to listen .
im serious .
somethings going on up front .
fine .
i kicked my stool back and pressed my ear against the wooden door that opened into the shop .
id recognize that voice anywhere .
peyton .
and he wasnt singing show tunes either .
hed probably wheedled info out of my dad so his group could get here first .
told ya , frankie said .
get in the chair , i answered .
in a flash , i whipped out the rope and tied him up with one of my famous knots .
id barely put on frankies blindfold and stuffed the gag in his mouth when the door burst open and slammed against the wall with a bang .
peyton towered in the doorway , but no group .
not a good sign that he split from his team .
his once slick hair stuck up in several directions .
where was aimee ?
she was supposed to be following him .
you cant stop me now !
i ran the electric screwdriver and faced frankie , but i really needed a chainsaw because the tiny buzz didnt do anything to hide my shaky voice .
little late to start playing the game , dont you think ?
peyton sneered .
with slow , in control movements , i placed the screwdriver on the crate .
frankie struggled against his ropes .
he mustve sensed the tension .
facing peyton , i drew in a deep breath .
youre supposed to stay with your group .
im sure they need your help .
he puffed out breaths while cracking his knuckles .
they probably do , especially since you screwed up everything for us .
my hands wouldnt stay still and kept clasping and unclasping .
desperate to send him on his way , i practically begged him .
you still have time to follow the clues and make it back here in first place .
im sure of it .
peyton snorted .
right .
i didnt need an inner spy sense to tell me i was in trouble .
behind me , frankie mumbled something but i couldnt focus .
i wished like hell i didnt know how to tie such a good knot .
id have loved it if my hostage could slip out of his binds and save me right now .
i kept my voice low and calm .
im sorry about the louvre .
im sorry about the eiffel .
i wish i could change what happened .
peytons eyes darted around the room , taking in the crates of old books , the cobwebs , and the hostage .
i couldve won this game .
a vein pulsed in his neck .
thanks to you and your friend i wont even finish .
with a little convincing , she told me where to find the hostage .
aimee ?
shed better be okay .
i choked down a nervous laugh .
you think this is a joke ?
he stepped closer , his chest rising up and down as if hed run a marathon .
no .
i think in the spy games handbook it says he shot back , i know what the handbook says .
i read it .
oh , i said meekly and then moved behind frankie .
frankie muttered through his gag , untie me .
i fumbled at the knots , but peyton took two steps , grabbed my arm and yanked me away .
dont even think about it .
look .
im sorry .
i decided on a personal approach .
i know life can be hard sometimes .
he shoved me up against the wall .
the rough wood jabbed into my back but i refused to show any pain to this bully .
i dont need you to tell me about my life , he snarled .
got it ?
yep , i squeaked .
dont you touch her !
frankie threatened , struggling against the ropes .
peyton ignored him and focused on me .
how are you going to make up for your big mistake ?
this guy might as well have been a wild grizzly bear holding a red hot poker and threatening to skewer me for dinner .
i had no idea what to say to him .
if i were a real spy with any good instincts , words would have slipped out and cooled him off .
i wouldve known what to say to reflect his accusation and get out of this .
the door to the storage room slammed shut .
nine malcolm .
his hair was mussed and his cheeks were flushed like hed run here .
for what ?
to save me ?
ha .
more like to take his revenge .
leave her alone !
malcolm rushed across the room and punched peyton in the gut .
the big man doubled over then two seconds later he rammed into malcolm .
i grabbed the screwdriver and jabbed peyton in the arm .
he backhanded me .
pain shot through my head , radiating out from my cheek .
two seconds later , malcolm punched him in the face with a solid right hook .
frankie shouted through his gag , untie me !
whats going on ?
peyton regained his footing and gasped at my reddening cheekbone .
horror filled his eyes but they hardened when he saw the screwdriver in my fist .
you shouldve stayed out of this .
malcolm gripped the back of peytons neck and squeezed .
peyton dropped to the floor , writhing in agony .
whats going on in here ?
dad kicked the crate out of his way and approached peyton .
cards fluttered only to settle on the wooden floorboards .
awe for my dad grew .
yeah , he was tall and a bit of a spy geek , but right then the gel in his hair made him look tough , like a member of street gang .
malcolm stepped back , and i sneaked a peek at him , trying to figure out why he came to my rescue after all that happened .
peyton ?
my dad repeated .
as soon as the sorrow appeared in peytons eyes , it disappeared , replaced by a steely determination .
you dont understand .
she ruined everything .
not taking his eyes off peyton , my dad grabbed him by the arm .
leave .
now .
well talk later about refunds .
go , dad !
nancy and gray both arrived , breathless and with flushed faces .
immediately , gray strode over to frankie and removed his gag and blindfold .
after a moment of tense silence , peyton said , fine .
youll be hearing from me .
with a grunt , he strode from the room .
dad smoothed my ruffled shirt with a gentle touch and traced my cheek with the back of his fingers .
are you okay ?
i nodded , all words trapped in my throat .
is this what it took for dad to act like he cared ?
muscles in his jaw twitched .
blood rushed to my face , and the room felt about a hundred degrees hotter .
he cared but he was still mad .
gray , nancy , and frankie tried not to look at me , shuffling their feet , fixing their hair .
malcolm picked up the cards scattered on the floor .
savvy , dad said in a clear but firm voice , why dont you take the rest of the afternoon off .
get some ice on your cheek .
ill see you at home .
his face turned into a mask , but the lines on his forehead seemed deeper .
his shoulders slouched , and i could tell he blamed me .
i grabbed my backpack , hiding the tears , and ran from the room .
i didnt stop running until i got to les pouffants .
where were you when i needed you , i whispered to the stone angels with curved wings that stood at the side of the doorway .
waiters dressed in black and white moved in and out of the caf like they were in a choreographed dance .
i loved this place .
inside , i ordered a latte .
the counter and the pastries behind the glass case became a blur .
maybe dad would ship me off to boarding school .
i highly doubted hed believe today was my best effort .
and if i was honest ?
it wasnt .
when i had the latte in my hand and took the first sip , my mind cleared a bit .
aimee must have forgotten to meet me here .
time to go home .
and open the package mom told me to burn .
i trudged up to our door , and the back of my neck prickled .
something was off .
the front door moved in the breeze .
as the director of spy games , dad was the guru of safety precautions .
he locked the doors , changed the bulb for the porch light , and left a light on when we were gone .
he would never leave the door unlocked , much less open !
i crept up the steps and nudged the door open with my foot .
if i were a real spy , my heart wouldnt be knocking against my ribcage and sweat wouldnt be breaking out on my forehead .
id burst into the room , pull out my gun , and the intruder would run for his life .
a weapon !
that was what i needed .
i grabbed dads umbrella by the door and tiptoed across the room .
the couch pillows were on the floor , and dads papers on the kitchen table looked mussed .
but i saw no overturned tables or fallen lamps like on television .
still , i couldnt breathe easy until i checked the rest of the apartment .
for a few seconds , i stood with my arm above my head , umbrella poised , listening .
a noise came from the down the hall in my bedroom .
peytons angry face flashed in my mind and my legs shook .
what if he knew where we lived ?
with light steps , i headed down the narrow hallway .
my bedroom door was open .
a draft ruffled the ends of my hair .
i heard it again .
a clicking sound .
enough .
i wasnt going to tiptoe around my own home .
i eased open the umbrella and charged into the room with a war cry .
i spun around to confuse any intruder .
i stopped and swayed , a bit dizzy .
the clicking noise was my open window .
the shade moved back and forth in the breeze , hitting the windowsill and making a slight click each time .
i let out a breath and closed the umbrella .
the person was gone , but someone had definitely been here .
i slumped onto my bed .
what would someone want from us ?
my fuzzy socks ?
my measly piggy bank ?
or maybe a package !
i sprinted back to the front door .
there it was , the package id tripped over and then kicked behind the bush earlier today .
i brought it inside .
mom had a strict rule .
no one was allowed to touch her mail or go through her things .
again , at the eiffel , shed told me to burn this .
but mom wasnt here , was she ?
i ripped it open .
inside , i found a clunky camera , like an old polaroid , wrapped in tissue paper .
but more importantly i found a note , typed , with no signature .
sign up for the pouffant pastry extravaganza .
take a picture of jolie pouffant .
that was it .
i mean , that was it ?
that didnt tell me anything about my mom , where shed disappeared to , or why the only time shed talked to me she wore a disguise .
and it didnt tell me anything about who sent it , like where he or she lived or why the hell they needed a picture of pouffant .
tips of green stuck out so i dug under the layers of tissue paper protecting the camera .
my fingers brushed against the clean feel of printed bills , lots of them .
i started pulling them out , more and more , until green covered the table .
more money than id ever need in my life , or maybe a year .
now that told me something .
mom was into something big .
like maybe she worked as a secret photographer for an entertainment magazine doing an article on pastry chefs .
or maybe this pouffant fellow wasnt just a pastry chef .
whatever it was , mom didnt want me to know .
but in a situation like this , i had to follow the old rule follow the money .
and if it wasnt a rule , i just made it one .
and in order to follow the money , id need to sign up for the pastry thing .
a.s.a.p .
good thing i knew where to find pouffant .
the front door rattled , and i froze .
voices floated in from outside .
dad chuckled and talked , and i heard frankie and nancy and gray .
the whole spy games staff was outside my front door , and i had thousands of dollars spread out on the table .
i shoved handful after handful of money back into the package , grabbed the camera and the note , and sprinted back to my room .
the whole crew moved into the kitchen and shuffled chairs around for a staff meeting .
why here ?
dad never brought them to our house .
i didnt have a good feeling .
i shoved everything into the back of my closet and waited to make my entrance .
what would i say to everyone ?
oh hi everyone , yes , im the bosss daughter who pissed off a client today .
and what is that ?
why yes , i did get kicked out of the louvre .
insert fake laughter .
yes , ill be packing for boarding school because my dad is kicking me out .
anything else you want to know ?
after procrastinating as long as i could and hoping the meeting was almost over , i entered the kitchen .
the whole spy games staff was crammed into our kitchenette , sitting around the table drinking instant coffee .
whats up ?
i asked casually .
now i was terrified of not only getting fired but of getting shipped away somewhere as well .
glad you could join us , savvy .
dad barely acknowledged me .
maps of paris covered the table .
dad posed a question to the group every few seconds .
gray took notes and punched numbers into a calculator .
hunched over the table , frankie sipped the instant coffee .
nancy nodded , but her whole body drooped .
one person was missing , and i knew shed never ditch a staff meeting .
the job was too important .
wheres aimee ?
i asked .
frankie flashed me a bored look , and then went back to stirring another sugar packet into his coffee .
nancy looked at me with sympathetic eyes that said , oh , you poor thing .
like when your dad eats your last piece of halloween candy .
peytons last threat echoed in my mind .
he couldnt have gotten to her .
could he ?
ten dad ?
i tucked the same piece of hair behind my ears over and over because it wouldnt stay in place .
wheres aimee ?
the only evidence hed heard me was the higher pitch of his voice and the way his fingers gripped the pencil .
he whispered to gray .
frankies legs twitched like he wanted to bolt and avoid the confrontation .
basically , dad ignored me .
except for that one incident , we got mostly positive feedback .
he glanced over his notes .
ill be working on a new route .
there are many terrific tourist sites in paris .
in no time at all , well have a new mission mapped out and ready to go .
i ducked my head in epic shame , biding my time as dad closed .
i tried not to think about aimee .
maybe she had to run errands .
maybe she got the stomach bug .
there were lots of perfectly good reasons for her absence .
thanks , everyone , dad concluded .
go home and relax .
its been a long day .
the staff gathered their stuff and filed out .
gray nodded to me .
nancy squeezed my shoulder , and frankie winked at me .
good luck , he whispered .
not a good sign .
maybe id gotten aimee fired , too ?
that was why nancy looked at me like id have to live with the guilt .
i held the door and said goodbye , ignoring the increased pulse thrumming through my veins .
finally , they were gone .
our apartment felt huge .
nowhere to hide .
no cracks to slip into and disappear for a while , like a month or two .
i decided to start first .
i can explain .
just give me a chance .
savvy .
dads voice sounded a bit impatient .
no , really .
i was doing great at the louvre and then malcolm messed up everything .
he got me kicked out .
did you or did you not bring candy into the louvre ?
i couldnt lie my way out of this one .
kind of .
he tilted his head to the side .
i didnt do it on purpose .
and no one wouldve known if it hadnt been for malcolm .
dad sighed in exasperation .
malcolm asked to observe spy games before officially applying for a job .
i told him to shadow you !
what ?
why didnt you tell me ?
this wouldve changed everything .
i tried .
you ran out of the debriefing so fast i didnt have a chance .
and then you mustve had your phone turned off .
oh .
we had a strict contract with the museum .
we were only allowed to use it for spy games as long as we didnt cause any trouble .
i couldnt look him in the eyes .
and spilling candy constitutes trouble ?
unfortunately , yes .
weve broken the contract .
part of what drew customers was incorporating big tourist spots like the louvre .
ill go back and explain , i said .
ill apologize .
ill write them a letter .
ill get down on my knees and beg .
ill scrub their floors for a year .
the words tasted bitter on my tongue .
the apology was only a habit .
i always apologized , hoping to smooth over the tension in the house .
not that it ever worked .
it wont matter .
with a sigh , he closed the file folders spread on our kitchen table .
after stuffing them into his leather briefcase , he stopped and studied me .
are you that unhappy ?
what ?
and i thought id hid it so well .
he paused , and in that moment i could see the heartbreak written on his face .
he missed mom just as much as i did .
because i cant have you working for spy games if you cant take it seriously .
i know you mock some of the clients .
i know you slack off at times .
ive overlooked a lot of it , but as my daughter , how you treat the job in front of the staff is a reflection on me .
oh , the shame !
how do parents know everything ?
he must have planted bugs in the rafters , in my bedroom , in the kitchen or slipped trackers in my shoes .
i shriveled up and wanted to crawl away and hide in a sandbank .
dad moved to the brown leather loveseat .
he motioned for me to sit down , but the stubborn side of me refused .
he rubbed his temples .
its about aimee .
i stepped back .
no way .
you cant do this .
the louvre wasnt her fault .
it was mine .
you cant fire her too .
please !
she takes care of her grandmother and counts on this job .
savvy !
dads voice was sharp , and i stopped babbling .
aimee isnt fired , and neither are you .
i plopped on the couch even though a part of me wanted to run away .
where is she ?
dad pulled out a letter and handed it to me .
i found this taped to the door .
i held the paper .
my hand shook a little bit as i quickly read it .
the note was from aimee , and it said something about taking some time off to backpack across eastern europe .
it said how sorry she was for the short notice , and that shed be in touch when she got back .
the words blurred on the page , not making any sense .
as if dad sensed my doubt , he said , hasnt she always wanted to travel ?
yeah .
i read over it again , but i didnt believe it .
not for one second .
dont you think its odd that she didnt give it to you in person ?
or talk to you about it ?
or talk to me ?
a little .
but it was probably awkward for her .
what about her grandmother ?
i reminded him .
this isnt over .
peytons words pounded in my brain and spread into my heart like poison .
aimee is very responsible , i continued .
shed never leave without making alternate arrangements .
this isnt over .
what about peyton ?
dad waved his hand .
i dont think hes any trouble .
he was letting off some steam .
ill give him a refund , hell pack his bags , and hell head back to the states .
but he threatened us earlier .
i bit my lip and flashed back to the scene in the eiffel .
yes , i made mistakes , but he overreacted .
then it hit me .
maybe hed found her following him and after extracting the hostage site from her , he took her hostage ?
i stifled a gasp .
id failed dad today but this was my chance to make up for everything .
we could work on finding aimee together .
wed be spies .
real spies .
hed love it .
hed always wanted me to get into the whole spy thing .
we could work together on a mission , and hed be so happy .
hope bubbled up in my chest .
dad , i have a strong feeling she did not go backpacking .
youve always said to follow our instincts .
we could work he zipped his briefcase .
i admit her leaving is a bit strange .
but instinct is different than an overactive imagination .
youre too close to this to see properly .
his words cut through my excitement like a knife through the last piece of birthday cake .
why wouldnt he believe me ?
dad had done everything possible to get me excited about spy games , from the box of spy gadgets to the spy hat .
and when i gave him the chance to work on a real mission with me , he shrugged it off as an overactive imagination ?
did you put ice on your cheek ?
his stress level was rising .
i could tell by the multiplied number of lines on his forehead .
yeah , sure .
i traced circles on the arm of the couch .
dad rubbed the scruff on his jaw .
he stood up from the couch , looking like hed aged about twenty years .
his shoulders were hunched over .
he started to say something , then stopped .
then he finally spoke .
im going back to the office to work on the new route .
and then i was alone .
and felt it .
aimee was the first person hired on staff and we were friends from our first shared latte and triple layer cake .
but it felt like someone had taken a fork to our sweet glaze and smashed it into crumbs .
wed dreamed so much together .
i couldnt believe shed just take off .
shed at least call .
my arm jerked with the revelation .
i ran over to the front door and dug out my phone from my jacket pocket .
after sending her a text , i went back to the couch , rehearsing in my mind all the conversations id had with aimee over the past weeks .
i didnt remember any mention of a trip .
nothing made sense .
a year ago i wouldve agreed with dad and squashed any doubts .
but this wasnt about me .
it was about aimee .
id follow through with the extravaganza and do a little investigating at the same time .
by myself .
without dad .
no turning back .
monday morning came , and i woke with a major spy games hangover .
i rolled out of bed and searched for a tee to throw on over my cammie .
coffee .
i needed a shot of caffeine .
hopefully after a cup , my head would clear and i would accept that my crazy suspicion peyton had done away with aimee was just a crazy suspicion .
i wanted to be wrong .
i wanted the letter to be a prank .
i wanted aimee to meet me for a latte this morning as usual .
and i needed to find out about this pastry extravaganza thing .
with my fingers running along the wall , i stumbled down the narrow hallway and into the kitchen .
i smelled the coffee .
hazelnut .
it must be dads way of making me feel better , but id rather him write a note or do the dishes because his coffee tastes like dishwater .
my eyes were beginning to clear , and i noticed the shape of a blue coffee mug sitting on the counter .
i leaned against the kitchen counter and rubbed my eyes .
the blurry reflection in the toaster of a dark shape caught my attention .
what the hell ?
i studied the reflection but it was too blurry .
it wasnt my dad .
could it be peyton ?
i might have a hard time waking up in the morning , but theres nothing like an intruder to get the mojo flowing .
i inched my hand toward a drawer and wished like hell i were wearing one of those sleepers with the feet instead of a t shirt with my pink panties showing .
after a pretend stretch , i pulled out a butter knife from the drawer and flipped around .
eleven malcolm .
relief flooded my limbs .
i remembered how mad i was at him and how mad he might be at me , so i held the knife up and ready .
we didnt exactly leave on the best of terms , and yesterday i made it worse because i had no clue he was shadowing me .
malcolm sat relaxed in dads kitchen chair , legs crossed , fingers tapping away on his laptop , eyes glued to the screen .
like he was alone in his bedroom or something .
hey !
what are you doing here ?
i waved the knife .
im known to be pretty loquacious but i couldnt quite find the right words to express my shock .
normally , i loved when dad left early for work .
today , i wished he were about to stumble from his bedroom .
malcolm smiled , his eyes glued to the screen .
where else would i be ?
oh crap .
he wanted revenge .
i tugged on my t shirt , trying to stretch it past my knees .
he jotted notes on a small notepad on the table beside his laptop .
if you have a flash , i can download any documents .
what was he talking about ?
the whole shadow me for a day thing was over .
what kind of revenge would an angry but still cute waiter want ?
i had to get him out of our apartment .
my gosh , will you look already !
his gaze flicked up and locked on the knife .
he snorted and moved his laptop as if it were a shield .
i slashed the knife through the air like i was a sheik from arabia .
maybe you didnt get the clue the other night that im not interested in you .
he closed his laptop .
hope the coffee is right .
i know you like it strong .
my hand wavered and so did my confidence .
i mimicked his casual approach .
i cant argue that you didnt take time to get to know me before our date .
he smiled .
as a waiter , i notice these things .
right .
what else had he noticed ?
i was determined not to show that his surprise visit had me rattled .
why had dad let him in ?
he sipped his coffee , his eyes still on mine .
i tried to zap some common sense into my brain while staying in control of the conversation , but i fell silent and rested my hand with the knife on the counter .
thoughts of aimee were constantly with me , hovering in the back of my mind .
whats wrong ?
he asked .
his cocky self assuredness was gone and in its place was genuine concern .
for me .
i managed to swallow .
just waiting to hear back from a friend .
he took his mug over to the sink and rinsed it out like hed been living here for a year , then he rubbed his hands together .
anything i can do to help ?
not really .
unless you have a crystal ball or a magic wand .
sorry .
malcolm shrugged .
where do we go from here ?
we are not going anywhere .
i wouldnt consider me almost getting him killed the start of an epic romance .
the silence grew heavy with expectation as i struggled to find the right words .
maybe if i apologized hed forget about the whole underwear thing .
i was sure he was trying to lure me in for some sort of big revenge .
hope you dont mind spending a lot of time with me , he said with mischief in his smile .
i remembered the kiss .
again .
his soft lips .
but i dont date anyone based on a kiss .
okay , screw that .
a hot kiss totally makes me want a second date .
it was what happened after the kiss that ruined everything .
who was he to waltz into my kitchen at this time in the morning ?
why did he keep acting like we worked together ?
why are you here ?
i asked .
his eyes widened and understanding flashed across his face .
i waved the knife in the air to show i meant what i said .
i mean , i really didnt know anything about this guy .
he stood and took a step closer .
the note explains everything .
trust in my knowledge of the situation disappeared .
i thought you knew i was here .
he glanced at his watch .
its almost ten oclock .
oh .
how could i have slept that long ?
and with aimee missing ?
he smiled and glanced down at my lack of clothing .
that explains the outfit .
you think i entertain all guests this way ?
he smirked and opened his mouth to speak , but i cut him off .
dont answer that .
his face grew serious .
your dad was supposed to leave you a note .
im sure you noticed by the way i stumbled into the kitchen im not in the habit of looking for notes by my bed .
he raised his hands as if to show his innocence while closing the gap between us .
my hand shook .
i met with your dad this morning .
one of his employees left suddenly and he needed a quick replacement .
i wanted an exciting job for some extra cash .
it sounded perfect .
he might as well have taken the knife and plunged it into my heart .
a replacement for aimee already ?
dont sign any contracts yet , i said .
because we still dont have confirmation she really left .
hate to disappoint you .
already signed on the dotted line .
i start training today .
with you .
mornings only because most afternoons i still have to work at les pouffants .
he took the final step and grabbed my wrist .
with his other hand , he gently eased the knife from my grasp and laid it on the table .
sorry about your friend .
i tried to pull away , my hopes crashing .
how could my dad sign someone so soon ?
he didnt even wait a day .
malcolm pulled me closer , his fingers loosening their grip .
my eyes lingered on the tiny flecks of charcoal in his eyes , the faint blush to his cheeks , and the way his hair fell just below his eyebrows .
okay , working with him might not be that bad .
i could really use your help with this whole spy thing .
please ?
damn .
he was good .
twelve i found the note confirming malcolms story .
fine .
id train him but id look for aimee too .
the first stop would be les pouffants to sign up for that extravaganza thing .
even though shed never texted back , i clung to the small shred of hope shed be waiting for me with the sun sparkling off her hair , smiling and waving .
at the caf , malcolm and i hovered at the edge of the outdoor patio .
i searched the flow of customers but aimee was nowhere to be seen .
malcolm babbled on about espionage in a newbie sort of excited way , something about night vision goggles .
i placed my hand on his arm to shut him up .
im going to check inside .
you keep watch .
ill be right back .
i walked into les pouffants and strode over to the glass case .
no one noticed me because some woman was crying and babbling in french into the arms of pouffant himself .
he snapped his fingers and the maitre d scurried over with a steaming cup of cocoa .
watching him listen and care for her made me feel a bit empty .
i missed my friends and my mom .
the official extravaganza sign up was taped to the front counter .
prize money would be offered to the contestant who made it to the finals a month from now .
the preliminaries were in less than two weeks .
moms words came back to me about meeting at some pastry thing .
this extravaganza was it .
i signed up then hurried back outside .
malcolm was leaning against a lamppost with his legs crossed , so casual and relaxed .
he held a cup of coffee in his hands .
is this part of the spy games route ?
you and your friend came here often enough .
i took up guard next to him , my eyes glued on the moving faces .
its not part of the route , but we started every morning here .
i felt like a robot , shooting out the answer to his question without any thought .
muscles in my arms and legs tensed , willing aimee to appear .
strangers weaved through the tables , and i wanted to scream at them to move out of the way .
i couldnt leave until i was absolutely sure .
how do you start a typical work day ?
after coffee and croissants , that is .
we meet at the warehouse , my dad introduces the mission , the staff does a bit of training .
blah , blah , blah .
i couldnt stop glancing at the table where aimee and i usually sat , hoping shed appear .
just yesterday morning , before the start of the games , id told her about my date with malcolm .
maybe id been so busy talking about myself , id never given her a chance to talk .
maybe she couldnt break through my blabber to tell me she was leaving .
you want to talk about it ?
malcolm interrupted my thoughts .
right , the debriefing .
wear long johns because it gets kinda chilly hanging from the rafters .
dont forget gloves for the bat poop .
i meant talk about whatever it is youre worried about .
his head tilted to the side and it was like every fiber of his being was focused on me .
i was thinking about aimee .
the friend you meet here ?
i nodded .
the one who supposedly quit the games to travel the world .
but you dont believe that .
he blew on his coffee , meeting my eyes over the rim of his cup .
not really .
i longed to hold a latte , feel the warmth on my hands , a simple distraction .
but i probably wouldnt enjoy another one until i found aimee .
sometimes people make impulsive decisions .
ones they might regret later .
malcolm emphasized the word regret and didnt take his eyes off me .
inch by inch , the slow burn of embarrassment crept across my neck and face .
by the tiny quirk of his lips and the glimmer of mischief in his eyes , i knew he was referring to me .
time to get this out in the open .
yeah , um , sorry about the other night and you almost getting killed .
that usually doesnt happen on my first dates .
and thanks for helping me out with peyton .
malcolm pressed his lips together and paused , as if to stretch out my ultimate humiliation .
apology accepted .
i just wish the kiss had lasted longer .
my face turned the color of a crimson sunset , or that was what it felt like .
i tripped over my words , until i managed to ask the question burning on my mind .
howd you get home ?
i cant tell you all my secrets .
he leaned into me and whispered , but i am known to like a bit of revenge .
as soon as he said that , he pulled back .
was he flirting ?
i couldnt tell , so i changed the subject .
enough .
i wanted to pin him to the floor and hold a butter knife to his neck until he took our problems , my problems , seriously .
he tipped his head back for the last drops from his cup .
i grabbed a small metal serving tray off a table and hit him in the stomach with it .
lets go .
i started to walk away , but malcolm didnt move .
the tray was in his hand .
well ?
i asked .
slide it up your shirt for protection .
er , right .
i straightened my back and tucked my hair behind my ears .
as your official spy games mentor , im responsible for your safety .
now its time to get started .
malcolm grabbed his backpack .
im ready for anything , boss .
our eyes locked , and i tried to see past his charcoal flecked ones to find the truth .
did he kinda like me ?
or was this some big game to him ?
why was i even thinking about that when my best friend was missing ?
i whispered , theres one exception to the rule .
whats that ?
always listen to your gut .
my gut still didnt have a read on malcolms feelings for me , but it was definitely telling me that aimee didnt leave on a fun holiday to eastern europe .
i shook it off , stepped back , and grabbed my bag filled with spy gadgets .
lets go .
thirteen malcolm whispered in my ear .
does some super secret evil villain live here ?
i elbowed him in the gut .
somehow rose trellises and flower boxes dont say evil to me .
i loved the old time feel of aimees familys cottage , the paint chipping off the sides and the old stone chimney and crumbling walkway .
i was a bit jealous of the stability of living in the same place for so long .
im trying to figure out how this is training , malcolm complained .
i approached the door , trying to ignore the guilt of not following dads instructions , but then i remembered how he blew off my conspiracy theory on aimee .
someone had to find her .
over my shoulder , i said , youre shadowing me , following the lifestyle of a spy games staffer .
deal .
before i could knock , a shrill voice yelled at us in french .
aimees grandmother , marie , stormed across the neighbors tiny yard .
whats she saying ?
i whispered .
malcolm raised his eyebrows .
shes basically telling us to scram .
who is she ?
i looked at marie and stared back at the cottage in front of me .
ive got the right place .
malcolm muttered , shes on the attack .
marie stopped in front of us .
her wispy white hair was held up by bobby pins and she wore a faded , flowered smock that looked like a relic .
she scolded us .
in french .
marie ?
i coughed and spoke louder .
its savvy .
aimees friend ?
a look of understanding and a bit of apprehension crossed her face .
she switched to english and pasted on a smile .
what was i thinking ?
i did not recognize you .
it has been far too long .
she held out her arms and gathered me into a hug and kissed both my cheeks .
bonjour , aimees young friend .
that was what i loved about aimee and her grand mere .
they both spoke english .
in fact , that was probably why aimee and i were friendsbecause she could talk to me .
i keep asking aimee when you are going to visit again .
she released me and noticed malcolm .
who is this ?
a special man in your life ?
she kissed both his cheeks .
marie .
malcolm .
he didnt hesitate for a second when marie enveloped him in a hug too .
she opened the door and entered the cottage with a wave of her hand .
i was visiting next door .
you must come inside for some tea .
a bit of young love is just what i need .
yeah , about that .
if i didnt straighten out the story , shed have us married before we left .
malcolm put his arm around me and squeezed .
i was lucky to find such a gem .
he leaned over and planted one on me .
he slowly let me go , and i had trouble finding my breath .
i didnt know whether to belt him one or throw him to the ground and kiss him back .
marie clapped .
how wonderful .
it is your lucky day .
i made gingerbread cookies and the kettle is on .
i keep telling aimee she needs to find a good man and settle down .
maybe you can talk sense to her .
we followed marie into a tiny sitting room off the kitchen .
herbs growing in pots on a windowsill scented the air , and a giant fern filled most of the room .
tiny chairs surrounded an equally tiny glass table the size of a checkerboard .
looks great , i said .
i like the new furniture .
merci .
take a seat and help yourself .
i will be right back .
as soon as she left , i kicked malcolm in the shins .
what were you thinking ?
he rubbed his shin .
i couldnt disappoint an old woman .
she probably lost her husband in a war long ago .
would it kill you to make her day ?
unfortunately , i said while giving him my darkest look , we arent exactly coming with the happiest of news .
he reached for a cookie .
all the better to brighten her day with our young love .
fine , but let me steer this conversation .
consider this part of your training in role playing and how to question a subject .
marie cut our conversation short when she entered with a kettle and poured us tea .
her hand shook , and i worried she would drop it .
malcolm stood .
let me do that for you .
marie smiled and crinkled her face up with tiny lines .
she winked at me .
and a gentleman , too .
i distracted myself with a tiny thread unraveling from the cloth napkin .
the more i got to know malcolm , the more i liked him .
when the tea was poured , and the cream and sugar added , marie settled into her chair .
to what do i owe the pleasure of your visit ?
malcolm leaned back with a cookie , an amused look on his face .
i licked my dry lips .
how exactly do i tell a grandmother that her only living relative is missing ?
we were in the neighborhood and thought wed drop by for a visit .
is aimee here ?
marie lowered her eyebrows .
aimee should be at work .
is everything okay ?
malcolm kicked me under the table as if to say good one .
um , my dad gave certain staff the day off to rest .
marie put her teacup down .
i hope hes not thinking of letting her go , because we really depend on her earnings .
no , no , nothing like that .
aimee is a valued part of the team .
a light sweat broke out on my forehead , and i could feel a nervous rash spread across my neck .
i decided on a more direct approach .
did aimee tell you where she was headed today ?
i have not seen aimee since she left for work yesterday morning .
fear bloomed in my chest , pressing against my lungs , making it hard to breathe .
it was hard to laugh and act like nothing was the matter .
she clasped her hands in her lap .
should i be worried ?
i waved my hand and laughed , probably a little too loud to be convincing .
no , not at all .
she slept at my place last night and um , er , left early this morning .
she borrowed a sweater of mine last week .
do you think i could take a look in her room ?
if aimee was on any kind of innocent trip , her grandmother would know about it .
sure , dear .
you remember .
first room on the right .
i excused myself from the table , needing to be alone .
do you need help , sweetie ?
malcolm asked .
i mustered the most sugary voice i could .
ive got it , pumpkin .
be right back .
i was at the stairs when i heard marie encourage malcolm to go with me .
she needed to clean up in the kitchen , and even though she wasnt young , she wasnt that behind the times either .
i begged to differ with the flowered apron .
i took the stairs two at a time .
in the doorway , i looked over the room before poking around .
with a warm hand on my waist , which i tried to ignore , malcolm said , good one down there .
you almost sent her to an early grave .
was i supposed to learn from that ?
no ones perfect .
i kept my eyes on the room .
it looked different and i wasnt sure why .
i couldnt remember if the pink and green flowered wallpaper , cracked and peeling in places , was the same or not .
whats our next lesson , boss ?
his breath tickled my ear .
shivers rippled down my spine .
in a good way .
i promptly moved into the room , desperate to find proof she was on vacation .
i strode over to her jewelry box .
most of it was gone except for a necklace .
i picked it up and let the beads poke into my skin before letting them slide from my fingers .
i threw open the doors to her closet to find half of her clothes gone .
except for a pair of hiking boots .
shed never leave without her hiking boots .
malcolm fussed around in the room behind me .
no ticket reservations or books on europe or hotel reservations .
you might be right .
the reality that my best friend was most likely kidnapped hit me in the gut .
i slumped to the floor and leaned against her dresser .
malcolm sat next to me .
im sorry .
he rubbed my shoulders , easing out the tension , then he wrapped his arms around me .
slow burning warmth spread through my chest .
i enjoyed the comfort of his body close to mine a little too much , but did he think i was going to break down and cry or something ?
hardly .
i whipped out my cell and sent an email to my home computer , reminding myself to check up on marie next week .
until aimee returned , or id rescued her , id make sure marie was okay .
i shook off the temptation to call dad with proof that aimee could indeed be missing .
hed already screwed up his chance to work with me , and hed probably find some way to trivialize my evidence and point out all my overreactions .
what now ?
malcolm asked .
we stood as i answered .
when we make a mistake , we do everything in our power to fix it .
mistake ?
if aimee was kidnapped , its my fault , and im going to find out what happened .
i was ninety nine percent sure i knew whod done it .
fourteen the next morning , i whipped off the covers as soon as dad left .
i changed into my favorite spy jeans , the ones with the stylish rips right above the knee , and a grey long sleeved shirt .
i had a mission .
i was ready to spyi mean train a spy .
after waiting a few minutes to make sure dad wasnt coming back , i opened the door and searched our non existent yard .
malcolm stepped out from behind the hedge .
i cracked up .
he wore black jeans , a black shirt , and a black ski hat pulled over his dark hair .
he also carried a small black backpack .
what ?
he pulled an innocent baby face quite effectively .
are you trying to get arrested for robbing a bank ?
you said to wear spy clothes .
yes , i did .
i motioned him inside .
we dont have much time .
my dad will take like an hour running , and i want to be gone before he gets back .
i have a few essentials like candy bars in case we get stuck or trapped .
he stepped inside , and i realized why spies dress like that in the movies .
because its totally hot .
dang , he looked good in black .
what now ?
he asked .
right .
i shook it off .
follow me .
i headed back to dads office bedroom , which he leaves unlocked .
i strode across the room to his private filing cabinet .
no coffee this morning ?
or perhaps a stroll to the patisserie ?
i scowled at him and pulled a paper clip from my pocket .
then i proceeded to untwist it .
lesson for the day .
how to pick a lock .
malcolm glanced back at the door .
but this is your dads office .
yeah , so ?
why are you spying on your dad ?
id like to say my dad is a high profile spy and this is where he hides the worlds best kept secret .
but id be lying .
client files .
on my knees , i wiggled the end of the paper clip into the small keyhole of the bottom drawer .
malcolm crouched close by .
sweat broke out on my forehead when i didnt hear the click .
after several minutes of jiggling , i handed it to him .
okay , i showed you how to do it .
now its your turn .
i dont feel right about this .
this is the only way to find aimee .
trust me .
malcolm leaned over and jiggled the paper clip in the lock .
he bit his lower lip and stared at it .
after a few minutes , i heard a click and the drawer opened .
okay , move over .
keep watch out the window for my dad .
i flipped through the files and found p quickly .
peytons file was the first one .
i opened it and scanned it , my heart in my throat .
id never realized how many personal questions dad asks .
maybe to tailor the games to the clients needs ?
i wasnt sure .
but peyton hadnt filled out any of the questions about his life , his family , or his job .
maybe hed gotten fired or divorced .
even so , a crappy life wasnt a ticket to jerksville .
your dad !
impossible !
i crushed the file on peyton in my grip .
he could only have gotten in a few miles .
maybe he cut it short .
but hes across the street and hes booking it .
crap .
i grabbed a pen from the desk and scribbled the address on my hand .
the door opened and slammed .
his footsteps pounded in the hallway .
the phone rang .
double crap .
under the bed .
i gently closed the file drawer and then dove under the open futon where dad slept .
hurry up , i whispered .
malcolm crawled in behind me , and seconds before dad walked in , i yanked his comforter farther off the bed to hide us .
dad answered his phone a little breathless .
he must have had a teleconference and forgotten .
just my luck .
if he found us , not only would malcolm be fired , but dad would never trust me again .
as he chatted , i became very aware of the wannabe spy lying behind me .
his breath hit the back of my neck , causing me to shiver .
admit it , he whispered .
you couldnt unlock the filing cabinet .
it was part of your training .
dad stopped talking for a second and i didnt dare say anything else .
i prayed he wouldnt need to get into his client files .
id put myself in a dangerous position , but it was all for aimee .
i was hoping wed have a bit more time to pay off those loans , dad said .
the business has only been running for a few months .
malcolm faded into the background .
dads voice grew tense , like when hed argue with mom .
most small businesses need at least five to ten years to pay off .
i need more time .
strand by strand , i pulled microfibers from the rug .
money trouble ?
yes , i understand the economy is hard .
ill have the first payment by the end of the month .
spy games was popular and doing well , wasnt it ?
this was moms apartment , but i never knew we lived here because we couldnt afford anything else .
i gulped .
what about all the money i wasted on pastries and lattes ?
malcolm seemed to sense this and placed his hand on my arm .
i remembered the extravaganza i entered .
something on the advertisement mentioned prize money .
i thought about moms money stashed in the closet .
maybe i could truly help out , instead of screwing everything up .
malcolm found my hand and entwined his fingers with mine .
i closed my eyes and listened to dads words .
ill find the money somehow .
i can sell off some assets .
assets ?
like our house in pennsylvania ?
i blocked out the rest of the conversation .
instead , i focused on the softness of malcolms hand and the warmth of his body , wishing i could snuggle into him .
i hoped the penned address on my hand wasnt getting smudged , because finding peyton was next on my list .
an hour later , we were crouched in the prickly bushes outside peytons rented apartment .
the tall brick buildings were built for tourists and quick money .
not exactly high class , but it was still in paris .
malcolm focused on the front of the building .
do you think aimee could be here ?
i doubt it , but at some point she probably was .
my voice caught , betraying the state of my nerves .
i wasnt exactly a pro at breaking the law .
you saw how psycho peyton was yesterday .
when you , um , saved me .
was he mad at aimee too ?
i stayed quiet when a young family burst from the front door in a babble of excitement , ready for a day of exploring .
a young couple entered the building , then i whispered , he was mad at both of us , but it was mostly my fault .
are we going to scale the wall and break in through a window ?
malcolm broke a twig in half that was sticking into his back .
because sitting in this bush kinda sucks .
were not superheroes .
i yanked the ski cap off his head and threw it behind the bushes .
watch and learn .
i waltzed up the front walk and right through the door .
i took the stairs to the third floor , with malcolm at my heels .
there are two different ways to enter a room when were not sure what well find , i whispered .
theres the button hook , which is just bursting into the room .
were going to slice the pie .
normally , wed need three people for this .
one , to keep an eye on the hall , one to open the door , and one to peek in and look for any danger .
malcolm pursed his lips to the side and took a step back .
but we have only two .
ill open the door , and you peek in .
i dont think were in too much trouble in this apartment building .
what if hes in the room ?
its prime tourist time .
hes probably out soaking in more of the eiffel before leaving for home .
i couldnt help but feel a twinge of guilt .
it quickly disappeared when i thought about aimee , possibly tied up and stuffed in a closet .
on tiptoes , i approached 307 and pressed my ear to the door .
silence .
good for us , but possibly terrible for aimee .
from my backpack , i pulled out a flat sided hairpin and poked one end into the lock .
my hands shook as i wiggled it .
i poked it into the hole , and i prayed .
after a few minutes of intense humiliation , the lock clicked .
malcolm turned the knob and opened the door a crack .
i stuffed the hairpin in my back pocket , relieved .
i held up fingers , counting to three .
each breath sounded like a freight train in my ears .
breaking and entering went against every moral fiber in my being .
okay , peeking at dads files didnt count .
i gently kicked open the door .
this was for aimee .
fifteen malcolm peeked in from the side .
he gave a thumbs up , and we entered .
a tiny kitchen with a table for two opened into a living room with a plaid couch and a matching chair .
i smelled bacon .
my heartbeat felt like gunshots going off in my chest .
you check the kitchen .
ill find the bedroom .
look for anything that might be a cluetickets , receipts , maps , anything .
i ran down a hallway that branched off the living room and went back to the bedroom .
i whipped open the closet door .
nothing .
it was a long shot and wouldve been way too easy .
not knowing how much time we had , i opened drawers , looked in suitcases and searched under the pillow and bed .
cliff peyton was kinda boring .
on his nightstand was a breathe right nose strip , a detailed map of paris , and sydney sheldons if tomorrow comes .
nothing too suspicious .
in the nightstand drawer was a tin of breath mints and tickets for the eiffel tower .
i mightve found something .
malcolm stood in the doorway , a coil of rope dangling from his hands .
thats not good .
i dropped onto the bed .
a rope ?
maybe he had already used some of it on aimee .
i hadnt planned on taking extreme invasive measures unless i found something suspicious , and i had .
or malcolm had .
he sat next to me on the bed , which sagged and pushed us together .
the mattress was probably from the 1800s .
this isnt a clue game , i said .
that could be for anything .
i zipped opened my backpack and reached inside .
well know for sure in a couple days .
amazement spread across his face and he glanced at the door .
are those trackers ?
why , yes , they are .
fancy you should ask .
i dropped three black button like trackers into his hand .
add them to his clothes .
ill put them in his shoes .
i sounded way more 007 than i felt .
how ?
dont you ever watch the movies ?
rip open the seam a tiny bit and shove it in .
hell never know .
where did you get these ?
he ran his finger over them .
isnt this illegal ?
i pulled out a pair of sneakers from the tiny closet .
it might be , but i have strong probable cause .
get to work .
for the next ten minutes , we worked in silence .
the quiet built up in my head , warning and whispering that i could get caught any second , and my shaky fingers made it that much harder to finish my task .
finally , i shoved the last one into a tiny crack in the sole of his sneaker .
lets get out of here , i urged .
we rushed to the door and opened it to find ourselves face to face with peyton .
damn .
in a matter of seconds , he went from eyes wide open shock to jaw clenching furious and back again .
his eyes darted between malcolm and me , and he backed up a few steps .
my heart shot into my throat and pulsed , sending tiny sparks of fear into my body , from the sweat on my scalp to the itch in my toes that told me to run like hell .
could we go to jail for this ?
malcolm gripped my arm and held me back .
breathe , he whispered .
ill take care of this .
no way , i muttered and took a few steps back , dragging him with me to give peyton space .
i had to show him we werent the bad guys .
hey , how you doing ?
he stood still , his fingers twitching at his sides .
what the hell are you doing in my room ?
we thought wed stop by and chat and noticed the door was open .
i said it as casually and friendly as i could .
and you decided just to let yourselves in ?
is this how they do things in paris ?
malcolm muttered , i can tell youve got this .
i didnt bother to give him a dirty look .
remember me ?
from spy games ?
the eiffel tower ?
complete annoyance settled in his eyes .
how could i forget ?
i guess we got off on the wrong foot .
all the meaningless words from peytons file flashed in my memory .
nothing that would help me .
thats one way to look at it .
he stepped closer .
you ruined everything !
malcolm moved in front of me .
why dont we talk about this ?
peyton , right ?
it was tempting to hide behind malcolm and let him smooth things over with his charm and good looks , but i refused to play the coward .
i pushed him back .
i did not ruin anything , i argued .
peyton snorted like he didnt believe a word i said .
my fingers curled into a ball , and i remembered the look on his face , his out of control behavior .
i dont have to explain anything to you .
not my actions , not my words .
not when you are completely psycho !
good one .
malcolm grabbed my arm and rushed toward the door .
whats your problem ?
peyton asked .
i whipped away from malcolms grasp .
a spy games staff member is gone .
i pointed a finger at him .
after you threatened us .
color crept up his neck and across his face .
you think i had something to do with your friends disappearance ?
i know you do .
i followed malcolms lead .
i came to check out your place for any clues .
thats crazy .
he pulled out his phone from his pocket and started stabbing at numbers .
i didnt stay for coffee , and ran out the door .
malcolm followed .
thats right , coward .
run !
because soon the police will be after you .
enjoy your last days of freedom !
i slammed the door as something crashed against the other side of it .
probably a vase or lamp .
lets go , i said .
this is how to leave a scene when youve been compromised .
we booked it out the front door , peytons words ringing in my ears .
the police ?
sixteen after running several blocks , i finally slowed down .
my lungs burned .
malcolm started to talk but i cut him off .
i dont want to talk about it .
he nodded , any hint of a smile disappearing .
i turned down one street and then the other with no direction in my mind .
aimee and i often roamed paris , talking until we found a spot we liked .
but she wasnt here .
and by tonight i might be in jail .
malcolm kept his eyes trained forward as if he were obsessed with the large red rose on the ladys hat ahead of us .
id pissed him off , but i didnt care .
it was better he knew the real methe sweet , the silly , and the crab .
for the umpteenth time that day i had to fight the urge to pull out my phone and text aimee .
malcolm quickened his stride .
we completed our mission .
hopefully , peyton will lead us right to aimee .
yep , i said .
i remembered the time aimee and id wondered how many cafs we could visit in one day and still get our work done .
wed sampled about every croissant , tart , and scone in paris .
then wed spent the next week eating nothing but celery to lose the extra weight .
whats the next plan of action if peyton ends up a dead end ?
malcolm asked .
he pointed to a cute caf with a blue striped canopy , signaling us to stop .
i shook my head and kept walking .
that day with aimee , wed forgotten which shops wed visited , and when we tallied our list at the end of the day , wed had five repeats .
malcolm spoke louder .
because we still cant be one hundred percent sure that peyton is our man .
i glared at him .
thanks for the professional analysis .
i kept walking , leaving him with the sting of my words .
why did i feel like such a crab , pincers and all ?
pretty soon , a dirty grey shell would start growing over my back and antennae would sprout .
if peyton is our man , will we go to your dad or the french authorities ?
its not like peyton is french .
the french police might just laugh in our faces .
probably , i answered .
malcolms frustration was increasing , and right when i was listing in my head the different punishments the french could throw at me for breaking and entering , he gripped my arm and pushed me up against the glass front of a cute but super expensive boutique just for hats .
his flushed face was close to mine .
youre supposed to be training me for the next spy games , but instead youre walking aimlessly around paris .
his lips tightened and a muscle twitched in his jaw .
he was millimeters from my face .
all i had to do was pucker up , and wed be smooching like french lovers .
he could grow a twirly mustache and wear a beret , and i could whisper je taime and forget about all of this .
youre the trainer .
whats the lesson here ?
he asked .
he needed an answer .
i couldve told him that to live the life of a spy , you had to deal with peoples idiosyncrasies , with wandering the streets and missing the people you loved like moms and best friends .
i blinked away my tears and hardened my face .
my words came out as a whisper as my throat closed up .
after especially hard or draining missions , its important to relax and refuel .
he didnt move back , and we stood there face to face , lips almost touching , both of us breathing a bit abnormally .
the crowds of people passed us by .
the bell above the boutique door jingled .
a baby cried .
a slight breeze stole between us .
thoughts of peyton and prison time faded , and i curled his hair around my finger .
you know , youre awfully cute when youre ticked off , i said .
malcolm tilted his head , and his face softened as if suddenly he understood the female brain .
he traced his thumb across my lips .
and you , savvy bent , are sexy when trying to act like you dont give a damn .
with both hands on his chest , i pushed him away and broke the spell .
i didnt want to feel that close to someone who would just leave me later .
dont you have to go to work ?
i asked .
he smiled a warm and cocky grin .
why yes , i do .
then he leaned in and whispered , someday youll have to admit you like me , before he turned and walked away .
ill text you about our next training , i yelled .
whatever .
he didnt look back .
two days later , i woke up a total grump .
i wasnt even close to finding a creative pastry recipe for the extravaganza .
peytons trackers showed nothing unusual , and i had no clue what to do next .
i stayed in my flannel nightgown , which id dug out of the bottom of my dresser after walking in on malcolm in my kitchen .
flannel nightgowns are highly underrated , soft and comforting .
i didnt shower or brush my hair , and i raided almost every single carb we had stored in the cupboard .
dad left early for spy games business , so looking like a granny , i pondered how uncooked rice would taste .
i checked the remote showing the position of peytons trackers .
again .
each hour gnawed away at the faith that id find aimee .
i finally showered and threw on my dads oversized white t shirt that said pastry chef and a pair of jeans .
i spent a few hours whipping egg whites into a meringue , dicing strawberries , and attempting to turn confectioners sugar into frosting .
all combinations of ingredients failed epically .
this was crazy .
how in the world of french pastries would i beat out top chefs ?
insanity .
i wished a best selling recipe had been included in the package .
underneath the superficial worries about what frosting to use were thoughts of moms package id opened .
why did i have to take that guys picture ?
what was it really all about ?
my gut said it was more than it seemed , and i needed to demand she tell me everything .
finally , after my second failed attempt at making the perfect tart , i kicked the wall .
it was so useless .
following stupid instructions didnt bring me any closer to mom .
i didnt even know if i wanted to be close to her .
savvy ?
dad ?
i didnt hear you come in .
i didnt want to talk to him about any of this .
is everything okay ?
um , yeah .
i waved at my face .
its just hot in here .
dad shifted from foot to foot and glanced toward his office , his escape , and then back at me like he knew he should say something .
he stepped closer .
you know , sometimes the more time that passes , the more we feel the effects of a different culture .
i nodded like the dutiful daughter .
yeah , i guess that could be part of the problem , but ever since id seen my mom , the feelings about her that id pushed down had gurgled up like air bubbles in a cheesecake .
and i didnt even know if cheesecake could get air bubbles .
why did mom leave ?
your mom would have to explain that .
moms not here .
try .
he sighed .
sometimes people need a break to figure things out .
shell be back .
i didnt dare glance up because i didnt want to see the truth .
so the split isnt permanent ?
dads silence told me everything .
finally , he said , only time will tell .
he wiped a smudge of frosting off my nose .
why the sudden interest in cooking ?
i didnt want to tell him i knew spy games was struggling or that if i won the contest i could go on to try for the prize money .
a hobby to keep me busy between spy games .
good idea .
he put his finger under my chin and lifted my head up .
you can do anything you set your mind to , whether you ever make the perfect croissant or not .
i blinked back the tears blurring my vision .
wow , the second time in a week dad had talked to me about something other than spy games .
i bit my lip , then spoke .
bet i can beat you in chess ?
a light that i hadnt seen in weeks flickered in his eyes .
he glanced at the table and i could sense the flooding memories .
happy ones .
when mom , dad and i were a family .
the light faded , and he cleared his throat .
not tonight .
ive got some paperwork to catch up on .
he turned his back to me , his shoulders hunched .
i struggled to hold back the words churning in my mind .
dad expected me to take his brush off in stride and go read a book or something , and the daughter he knew and had lived with for eighteen years wouldve done that .
i didnt want to be that girl anymore .
that girl wouldnt be searching for her best friend .
that girl wouldnt dare stick up for herself .
and that girl wouldnt challenge her dad .
you cant ignore me forever !
i shouted .
dad stopped .
slowly , he turned and faced me , his face worn and weary .
savvy , im not ignoring you .
im trying to get this business off the ground and provide for you .
sure , right .
why did i feel guilty for wanting to spend time with my dad ?
the next few hours sucked .
i pulled out our travel pack of gamescheckers , backgammon , and chessand played against myself .
i imagined the conversation i couldve had with my dad where id learn all of moms past secrets , especially the one about her penchant for dressing in costume and her problem with paranoia .
that could be why i never noticed the knock on the door or the fact that someone had entered without me even knowing it .
seventeen hello ?
anyone home ?
i jumped from the chair like i had a rocket strapped to my back .
whoa , its just me .
malcolm entered the tiny living room .
i drank in the sight of him , his quirky smile and the familiar glint in his eye like he knew something i didnt .
was it something about aimee ?
id been checking up on the trackers and so far peyton had been a very boring tourist .
feelings rushed through me and i couldnt tell if it was excitement that we might have a breakthrough on the case or because malcolm was standing so close to me .
dad entered the room .
oh , malcolm .
i forgot you were stopping by .
he coughed and his eyes shifted to the right like he regretted leaving his office .
i directed my glare of complete evil between the two of them .
dad flashed a cheesy grin .
sorry , savvy .
i forgot to tell you .
tell me what ?
i sensed a conspiracy and didnt like it .
dad started cleaning up the chess game for me .
malcolm called earlier and said youd missed a couple days of training .
dad raised his eyebrows and peered at me .
i hid my face and got busy cleaning up the rest of the games .
he continued , which ill forgive .
but he also shared that things were a little tense between the two of you , so he asked for another day off .
i wanted it to be a surprise .
malcolm stepped closer to me .
i thought if we were going to be working together , we should have an afternoon of just plain old fun in france .
your dad agreed .
how come i wasnt involved in this decision ?
i played the role of the crab while searching malcolms face for the sly wink that told me there was more to this .
dad backed away with his hands in the air .
uh , i just remembered a teleconference i have in a couple minutes .
have fun .
he practically sprinted back to his office bedroom .
i fumbled with the zipper on the game package , deciding to fish for some answers .
i have to come up with an entry for the extravaganza .
an afternoon off might help .
the best ideas come when were not looking for them .
malcolm crossed the room and grabbed my hand .
and i wanted to say sorry for being a jerk the other day .
next time we can pass a hundred shops if you want before choosing one .
i wasnt exactly a princess either .
i drew closer and whispered , whats going on ?
his lips curved up , showing the dimples i couldnt resist .
he shrugged .
wait and see .
fine .
i relented .
ill be right back .
i headed to my bedroom to change , heart fluttering , pretty sure malcolm had breaking news on peyton or some kind of clue that would help .
as we headed up the stairs to malcolms apartment , my excitement grew .
he had to understand i wasnt here to bat my eyelashes at him and that my focus was on finding aimee .
i tried to make my voice low and menacing .
i hope youre not planning an afternoon of flirting .
darn .
he flipped around on the stairs , brushing up against me .
there go all my plans .
you might as well go home .
he had to be just fooling around , but still , i felt annoyed that he could joke when i could barely crack a smile .
i tried to shake it off .
time to prove i wasnt about to fall apart .
i could be relaxed about this too .
he unlocked the door and we entered .
his apartment was pretty sterile , a word that usually made me think of hospitals , needles , and green scrubs .
i totally get it .
what ?
he said , as he dug around in the smallest closet in france .
i ran my finger across an empty bookshelf hung on the wall .
the counter had nothing on it .
the couch didnt even have a pillow .
not even one candle .
why you dont invite girls up here .
he caught my eye and my stomach fluttered .
atmosphere has nothing to do with romance .
he went back to digging , and in that moment , i believed him .
boy , did i ever .
aha !
found it .
he pulled an ugly green gym bag from the depths of the closet .
hmm .
that looks suspicious .
are you going to divulge our afternoon plans ?
id hoped he had a crystal ball that would reveal how to find aimee .
peytons on the move .
he unzipped the bag and pulled out what looked like material from maries scrap bag .
what ?
my face heated up .
he did know something !
i rushed over .
tell me .
as i waited for his answer , i allowed myself a brief daydream .
id smash a lock and break down the door .
the stale smell of an abandoned house would greet me but id push through .
id call for aimee to hear her struggle from a back room .
it would only take seconds for me to find her , slice through her ropes and rescue her .
on our way out , id take down a couple bad guys .
havent you been paying attention to the trackers you planted ?
he separated the quilting scraps .
yeah , i huffed .
hes not moving .
and ive been up to my eyeballs with spy games stuff .
if i tried , i could find a connection between chocolate peanut butter ice cream and spy games .
ive been doing a bit of spying myself .
hes been on the move for a couple of hours .
i figured youd want to be all business today without your dad knowing .
of course , duh .
i snorted .
i knew it .
i could tell from the moment malcolm had walked into my living room .
the flutter in my chest had told me great things would happen today .
he pushed the pile of cloth toward me along with a wig that looked like the end of a mop with silver and gray hairs wrapped up in a messy bun .
get dressed .
i gave him my dumb blonde look .
yes , even us black haired beauties have our moments .
your disguise ?
i blew air through my lips .
of course , i knew that .
an hour later , malcolm and i hobbled , arm in arm , to the metro .
he wore faded old man corduroys and a plaid flannel shirt , even though it was warm outside .
a derby hat sat on top of his grey head , and he had a long wizards beard .
id never seen this side of malcolm , all business and no play .
but i liked that he was helping me .
so , dearie , you up for some square dancing this week ?
i pushed my mop of grey hair out of my eyes then smoothed down the ugliest dress ever .
i swear i was a walking commercial for patchwork quilts , and not in a cozy cottage kind of way .
malcolm leaned on his cane and shuffled his feet .
he whispered , do i look like i could dance ?
oh , right .
i guess well have to spend our days taking care of the grandkids then .
he tried to hide a muffled snicker .
youre not very good at this , are you ?
i stopped and pulled my arm away .
im fine .
just so you know , i was the understudy for aunt spike from james and the giant peach in a third grade play .
he slipped his fingers through mine .
lets go , hilda .
we didnt say much on the ride underground per malcolms orders .
i guess lots of old married couples dont talk when they reach a certain age .
kind of like my mom and dad .
except theyre not that old yet .
off the metro we crossed the street , a bit faster than our age shouldve allowed , and headed toward a big gate .
parc des buttes .
i burst out laughing , but when we entered the park , my mood shifted .
i lost any desire to joke about parking our derrires on the benches .
aimee and i would have a good time with that onewhen i found her .
i picked up my pace .
peyton was on the move .
in this park .
i could be moments from rescuing my friend .
eighteen malcolm grabbed my hand .
slow down , dear .
lets enjoy the day .
what he really meant was , stop running through the park like a schoolchild when youre supposed to be 70 years old .
i couldnt help it .
it had already been too long .
what do they say ?
after twenty four hours the chance of finding someone decreases ?
his eyes darted back and forth along the perimeter of the park , but the only somewhat suspicious movement was a mime performing for a big family picnic and a young couple riding a tandem bike .
i pictured me and aimee riding on the bike , dodging squirrels in the path until wed give up and walk .
or coming here with her grandmother , who could fill us in on the history behind this place .
because every place in paris has a history .
after shuffling through the winding paved paths that rolled with the landscape , he stroked his long beardquite convincingly i might add .
i bet i know where hes headed .
he led me down narrow paths overhung with tree branches and ferns , and with no one around , we jogged .
the smell of damp earth and leaves brought me back to working in my dads herb garden and walking through the woods behind our house .
but those memories were safe ones , and there was nothing safe about what we were doing nowfollowing a potential madman .
we turned a corner and a humongous rocky bluff jutted into the sky .
ivy clung to its side , crawling toward the gazebo like temple at the top .
i shivered a bit because the cliff towered over a lake .
even though the water sparkled in the sun and seemed pretty harmless , it was a long drop from where we stood .
a wooden slat bridge that didnt look very safe seemed to be the only way across .
it started a few feet ahead of us , way too far up for me to consider crossing .
i swayed with dizziness just looking at it , and i gripped malcolms cane .
i need this more than you .
did you see him ?
malcolm pointed and peered across the bridge .
i followed his gaze , fearing and hoping that hed seen someone .
who ?
a man just ducked into the woods over on the cliff .
he cupped his hand to shield the sun from his eyes .
i think it was peyton .
why , what did you see ?
maybe i needed glasses .
dark shapes moved in between the trees .
tall , dark hair , an obnoxious swagger .
sound like him ?
sounded exactly like peyton .
are you sure ?
adrenaline rushed through my body .
oh my gosh , an island would be a perfect place to hide a hostage .
aimee could be tied up under a tree , hidden by long willowy branches , she could be shivering from cold and shaking from starvation , she could be terrified thinking no one would ever find her .
stop and breathe .
malcolm rubbed my back .
after gasping a bit , i stepped onto the first wooden plank , swallowing down my breakfast and refusing to look below .
we can cross the safe and legal one .
malcolm grabbed my hand , trying to pull me in the other direction .
it would be too late .
i growled and ripped out of his grasp .
we cross now and have him lead us to aimee .
ignoring the sign with a big circle and a line through it , i started across the bridge , my eyes on the temple .
the wooden slats creaked and swayed under my weight .
i didnt care about the rules or the danger .
i wanted to find aimee , and i couldnt give peyton any more of a head start than he already had .
halfway across , malcolm stopped and the bridge creaked .
i groaned , my fingers digging into the railing .
through sheer determination of will i made it , and then dropping the granny act , i sprinted across the top of the rocky cliff calling aimees name .
the leaves and ferns brushed my face and arms .
i found nothing but fox dens or rabbit holes .
after looking under every rock and tree , my adrenaline crashed .
nothing .
malcolm called out , i found something .
over here !
with a surge of energy , i ran through brush and ducked branches until i found him , standing by a tree , holding back the big drooping branches .
the heartbreak in malcolms eyes told me everything .
this doesnt mean she was here .
this could be anything .
underneath lay the scattered remains of what couldve been aimees meager captivity , frayed rope and a power bar wrapper .
i pulled out the tracker and we both looked at it .
malcolm blew out a breath .
sorry .
hes leaving the park .
the leaves and rope blurred in front of my eyes .
it couldnt be .
some pieces of trash werent real clues .
but then why did i feel my hope slipping away ?
i couldnt stand there , next to malcolm , so i ran and ran and ran until i couldnt breathe .
i needed to be alone .
i arrived at the other bridgethe safe oneand slumped against a tree , welcoming the jagged bark piercing through my shirt into the skin of my back .
pain was good , a reminder that nothing should matter but aimee .
malcolm was soon with me , gently lifting me up by the arm .
honestly , i dont think she was ever here .
i should never have pointed it out .
that couldve been anything .
or it could be everything .
wasnt that the same kind of rope we found in peytons apartment ?
possibly .
its pretty common rope .
he held out his hand .
lets go back and regroup .
hell be on the move again and well find him .
i sighed not wanting to give up , not wanting to admit that i was failing , not wanting to tell malcolm to stuff it when he was just trying to help .
wed find him ?
when ?
how ?
i wanted answers .
we crossed the safe bridge .
the green of the trees blurred against the blue sky and the slight breeze moved my granny dress against my legs .
malcolm stopped halfway .
you might as well take in the view .
we did tell your dad wed have some fun .
geese flapped their wings and skittered across the lake to settle near the edge .
large tree branches dipped their fingers into the edge of the water .
aimee wouldve loved it .
i leaned my head against his shoulder , refusing to give in to tears .
i didnt want malcolm to know how much it was getting to me .
so , dear , my memory is getting a little fuzzy , he whispered , his breath kissing my cheek .
tell me again about our wedding day .
i stiffened a bit when he put his arm around me .
very easily , i couldve slipped into this role and forgotten .
pretended that all was well , and felt safe and loved with the warmth of his arm draped across my shoulder .
except i couldnt muster the energy to play his game .
you can quit trying to cheer me up .
it wont work .
i remember now , he said .
we got married under the arc de triomphe at sunset .
it was almost perfect , except for the flock of pigeons that pooped all over our family and friends .
we , of course , were safe under the arc .
i relented and couldnt help but smile .
did we enjoy our honeymoon ?
malcolm didnt say anything but traced his fingers down my back .
my legs grew weak , and i leaned into him a little bit more .
he kissed the side of my head and whispered , oh , yeah .
i just about lost my breath when he said that .
for once i didnt have anything to say .
my heart was lodged in my throat .
he ran his fingers down my arms and goosebumps quickly followed .
he laced our hands and pressed his face into the crook of my neck .
ill play out any fantasy for you , savvy bent , if it will keep a smile on your face .
he gently kissed my cheek .
if my life were a movie , that would be when the music started , and malcolm and i wouldve engaged in one of those long kisses that made all the girls swoon .
maybe even some of the men if they were being honest .
but we didnt .
instead , tears slipped down my face .
i couldnt remember the last time someone had gone out of his or her way to try and make me smile again , and all it took was a few simple words .
it was much more than that .
without any complaints about the lack of training , he was helping me in every way he could .
maybe , just maybe , i could call him a friend .
i didnt have many .
a shot rang out , ripping a hole through the fantasy .
birds burst from the trees like fireworks .
malcolm wrapped his arm around my waist and slammed me to the bridge .
i hit the wood with a muffled clang .
all my breath shot out my mouth , leaving me gasping .
i was inches from the edge .
my vertigo maxed out .
i stared at the water far , far below us , just waiting for a victim to fall into its clutches .
are you still wearing that stupid tray ?
malcolm asked .
its not stupid if it saves my life , thank you very much .
malcolm moved to get up , then swore , and we watched the black tracking box falling toward the water .
forget about it , malcolm said .
when i say three .
run .
off the bridge .
dont look back .
my heart pounded for a completely different reason .
what about you ?
ill be right behind .
three !
go now .
another shot shattered the air .
i scrambled to my feet , gathered my skirt and sprinted .
my granny shoes clicked against the bridge , until i finally kicked them off .
i pumped my arms and tucked my head , hoping my wig wouldnt fly off .
i tore down the winding paths , ducking the tree branches , and leaping the cracks in the pavement .
my lungs were screaming when i finally stopped near a bench and sucked in air , doubled over .
quick , follow me .
malcolm dove under the nearest sweeping tree branches .
my whole body shook .
the muscles in my legs quivered like i was trapped in a room with a mountain lion .
i gripped the bench to stop the shaking in my arms .
who would shoot at us ?
peyton ?
he was mad , but was he completely psycho ?
i hoped not for aimees sake .
and mine .
come on !
now !
malcolm urged .
i froze wanting to dive under the tree and wanting to sprint toward the entrance and make my escape .
the crunch and snap of branches breaking behind us motivated me to take the dive .
i squeezed in next to malcolm , trying to keep my breath from sounding like gunshots .
nineteen we waited .
i didnt dare move .
i tried my best to peek through the leaves of the branches but couldnt see much .
hopefully that meant whoever was on the outside couldnt see me .
who shh .
no talking , malcolm reprimanded .
minutes passed .
i huddled close to malcolm , trying to shrink from sight .
my mind seemed incapable of logical thought , and all the sounds around me became extremely loud .
the rustle of the leaves .
the wind moving in the branches .
the geese on the nearby lake .
malcolms breath on my neck .
footsteps on the gravel path .
footsteps ?
oh , crap .
oh , crap .
oh , crap .
oh , crap .
i closed my eyes as tight as i could and held my breath .
i didnt want to hear those footsteps coming closer and closer .
i didnt want to see a gun poke through the branches .
i wasnt sure how much time passed but i needed to breathe .
so ever so slowly i let air escape out the side of my mouth .
its okay to breathe , malcolm whispered .
whoever was on the path didnt see us .
they kept walking .
the rest of my breath came out in a big whoosh .
i took several deep breaths , trying to steady my shotgun heart and shaking legs .
i held back a sob .
its okay , malcolm said , i think were out of danger .
my voice trembled .
i dont dare move .
what if hes waiting for us to come out of hiding ?
what if hes still searching ?
we can wait a bit then .
malcolm wrapped his arm around my waist , and id never been so thankful for human contact .
i pressed into his warmth , but my thoughts stayed on the fact that id gotten shot at twice .
i couldnt believe peyton would try to shoot at us .
at me .
i screwed up at the louvre and the eiffel but my actions hardly deserved sudden death .
who could it be ?
my body stiffened .
whats wrong ?
malcolm asked .
i was glad i didnt have to look him in the eyes .
what if this wasnt peyton ?
what do you mean ?
i thought about my moms disguise at the eiffel , her directions to burn the package , and her fear when shed shushed me .
she did not want to be found .
then id opened the package anyway and went through with the instructions to sign up for the extravaganza .
and all that money .
what if this was about the money ?
savvy ?
malcolm asked again .
this might be about my mom .
i spoke the revelation before realizing it .
what do you mean ?
about your mom ?
his voice rose as if he were suddenly interested .
this is the second time weve been shot at and we didnt know peyton the first time .
it has to be peyton .
i saw him on the other side of the bridge .
malcolm shifted his body and sat up .
after i dropped the tracking device into the lake , he must have circled back .
i didnt want to talk about my mom , or share about the package .
my gut told me to keep it a secret , so i played along with the peyton theory .
i faced him .
right .
he mustve .
and the hostage site .
i couldnt forget about the food wrappers and frayed rope , possibly the same rope that matched the one id found in peytons apartment .
my stomach growled , interrupting us .
i laughed .
glad hes not walking past right now .
aha !
thats why i came prepared .
he pulled off the spy backpack that id made fun of when i first saw it .
you dont happen to have a hawaiian pizza in there , do you ?
a girl could hope .
sadly , no .
but maybe this will do ?
he pulled out a handful of chocolate bars , crackers , and two small bottles of water .
my eyes widened .
youre the best !
i leaned forward and kissed his cheek right above his old man beard before realizing what i was doing .
i didnt say i was going to share it .
youre the one whos supposed to be training me to be the ultimate spy .
where are your provisions ?
what did you do to be prepared in the face of danger ?
he covered the food with his hands and waited for an answer .
i scrambled .
well , it is important to be prepared , but its also important to have the stamina to go without food in case of imprisonment .
good cover .
he handed me a chocolate bar .
thanks .
i unwrapped it and smelled the milk chocolate .
for some reason , i felt as if i were sitting by willy wonkas chocolate river , only this tasted even better .
as we munched on the food , our conversation dwindled and awkwardness settled in .
so , tell me your biggest fear .
malcolm guzzled his water , then looked at me with honest eyes .
since weve been shot at together .
twice .
maybe we should know each other a little bit better .
i bit my lip .
my biggest fear ?
that was easy .
black crickets .
water came out malcolms nose when he laughed .
crickets ?
what ?
not what you expected ?
black crickets freak me out .
especially when there are hundreds of them covering my yard , hopping around like they cant wait to get in my house and jump into my bed .
i shuddered .
your turn .
malcolm played with the cap of his water bottle and studied a pile of dirt .
after a few minutes , he looked up .
my biggest fear is failing my dad .
that during this year away from home , i wont be able to meet up to his expectations .
he fell silent , lost in thought .
a year away from home ?
i asked .
its a tradition .
when we turn eighteen , we have a year to live on our own and prove ourselves before were welcomed into the family business .
first my brother did it and now its my turn .
wow .
talk about pressure .
and failing parents ?
i knew something about that .
his confession made my black cricket phobia look like a joke , or like i was afraid of being close to someone or had a problem sharing my deepest thoughts .
if it makes you feel any better , i said , i already failed mine , both of them .
why else would mom have left ?
and why she didnt trust me enough to talk to me ?
no way .
your dad loves you .
i can tell .
he has a funny way of showing it .
time to change the subject .
whats your most embarrassing moment ?
thats easy .
there was this one time .
i was on a date with this cute girl .
oh .
for some reason , i didnt like the idea of malcolm on a date with anyone else .
and , well , because of a misunderstanding , she got really mad at me .
i narrowed my eyes at him , hoping he wasnt talking about what i thought he was talking about .
and to my great surprise , she tied me up , took off all my clothes , and then left me in my underwear .
but that wasnt the embarrassing part .
i clasped my hands together and fiddled with my fingers .
this was my most embarrassing moment , for sure .
what was it then ?
he put his finger under my chin and lifted my head so i was looking into his eyes .
that i went behind her back and made it look like i was on the date for other reasons .
she didnt trust me , and when we got shot at , i couldnt protect her .
i tried to lower my head , but he wouldnt let me .
instead we locked eyes , and i felt my breath slowly squeezing out of my lungs .
gray flecks swirled in his eyes and i fell into them , head first .
moments passed , and we didnt say a word .
the breeze hugged us , pulling us closer together .
i leaned forward .
he leaned forward .
my heart quivered just before our lips brushed like the soft sprinkling of sugar on a donut .
sweetness .
the breeze swirled , and for a moment , i forgot everything .
but then he stiffened and pulled away , the honesty in his eyes fading .
we should be okay to leave .
right .
i brushed off the hurt and confusion and helped him pick up the chocolate wrappers .
minutes later , we trudged up to the gate .
he grabbed my hand but then let go as if he made a mistake .
lets go .
enough excitement for today .
on the metro ride home we didnt say a word .
the whole being married pretense was dropped and even though he sat next to me , he didnt touch me .
he stared out the window at the blurred underground walls .
my body moved with the sway of the train , but he leaned away from me at every turn .
what had changed ?
maybe hed decided i wasnt worth getting shot over .
some friends are willing to die for each other but our friendship was new , just budding , needing sunlight to grow .
possibly being killed moved a big ole cloud right over us .
i shivered in its shadow .
somehow i knew id wind up on my own trying to find aimee .
i had reached that dead end .
the trackers hadnt worked , and the device was at the bottom of the lake .
i had absolutely no other clues .
i wanted to ask him what to do next , beg him to sit down and brainstorm with me , but the words wouldnt come .
hands shoved into his old man pants , he said , i have to work at les pouffants this weekend .
next monday , then ?
sure .
i was officially on my own .
perfect time to check on aimees grandmother and maybe snag some gingersnap cookies .
i wanted to check out aimees room again .
something hadnt felt right the first time .
id missed something , some clue , important to finding her .
or maybe i just wanted to feel close to her .
at maries house , right away i knew something was wrong .
the once happy blooming flowers in the window boxes drooped .
a shadow seemed cast over the house and the cute little cottage looked a bit forlorn and neglected .
i knocked on the door .
no response .
i knocked a bit harder .
marie ?
no answer .
not even a scuffle of footsteps .
its savvy .
aimees friend ?
my guilt over aimee and not being fully honest with marie the last time got to me , so i twisted the knob and gently opened the door .
i expected the smell of cinnamon and ginger because marie always baked .
but there was nothing .
not one hint of spice or warmth .
twenty hello ?
no one seemed to be home , but i really wanted to check aimees room again .
call it my budding spy sense , but trespassing uninvited seemed the best option .
i wasnt going to eat any cookies , just take a peek inside .
i walked through and closed the door , hoping a neighbor hadnt seen me .
the floor creaked .
was it that loud last time ?
i quickly made my way up the stairs to aimees room .
at first , i stood in the doorway and observed .
the room looked the same as when malcolm and i were here .
the fading wallpaper , her bed , her jewelry , the half empty closet .
what was it ?
i stepped in the room and made my way over to her dresser .
i ran my fingers over the beaded jewelry .
if aimee left on a hiking trip , she wouldnt bring necklaces .
i turned to the closet .
but hiking shoes shed bring .
so why were they still here ?
i sat on the bed and closed my eyes , letting my mind drift .
maybe if i relaxed and stopped trying to figure it out , the answer would come to me .
minutes passed .
memories faded in and out of the few times aimee and i had spent in her room , which granted wasnt a lot because she lived outside the city .
the faded smell of her perfume barely lingered .
i remembered the laughter and her crinkly smile .
this was where the clues i was missing would magically appear .
but nothing .
except for the creak downstairs , which wasnt part of any memory .
my meditation came to an abrupt end , and i sat straight and listened .
another creak .
was marie home ?
wouldnt someone walking into her house make more noise ?
this intruder sounded like me .
sneaky .
damn .
somehow i had to leave the house , and i couldnt use the stairs .
why didnt i think to bring rappelling hooks ?
i crept over to the window and pushed it open .
a breeze drifted through bringing fresh air to the stale room .
it was my only escape route .
slowly , so i wouldnt make any noise i brought one leg over the windowsill and let it dangle .
this was crazy .
i wasnt the kind of girl to jump out of second story windows .
maybe i should hide in the closet ?
i heard footsteps on the stairs .
my heart raced .
i threw the other leg over .
if i hung from the window and then dropped , the fall wouldnt be that big of a deal .
i hoped .
gripping the bottom of the window , i let my body scrape against the wood as i slowly lowered it .
i had no idea how far of a drop it was but the cottage wasnt that tall .
right ?
the bedroom door creaked .
i couldnt drop .
what if the person heard me ?
i held on for dear life and hoped the person couldnt see my hands .
sweat broke out all over my body in a rush of heat .
what were they looking for ?
aimee wasnt a criminal who stored cocaine or top military secrets in her closet .
i prayed the person would leave because my fingers were cramping .
i couldnt hold on much longer .
the door creaked again .
whether or not that meant the intruder had left the room , i didnt care .
i let go .
the impact shot up through my legs and forced a groan from my chest .
my feet ached but i dove into the nearest bush .
i sat and massaged my fingers while waiting for my body to stop shaking .
but spies dont stop in the middle of a mission because their fingers hurt .
i crawled along the side of the house until i got to the kitchen window .
if the intruder was leaving they had to come this way .
inch by inch , i raised my head until i could peek into the kitchen window past the ruffled curtains .
the intruder seemed to have vanished .
i sank back down and stayed crouched by the side of the house .
who could the intruder have been ?
who else was interested in marie and aimee ?
i didnt dare move .
mysteries swirled around me as if all i needed to do was reach out and catch the answer like it was a leaf on a windy day .
maries front door slammed , and i jumped up to run like crazy .
a middle aged woman with mousy hair rounded the corner .
i couldnt catch one word of her french it was flowing so fast .
i nodded .
the woman grabbed my arm and dragged me to my feet , while continuing the scolding .
sorry .
i breathed deep and tried to call up a smooth response .
id seen enough spy thrillers with my dad .
i should be able to get out of any situation .
just visiting maries granddaughter , aimee .
the woman narrowed her eyes then glanced to her left and right and brought her face inches from mine .
her eyes held a hint of fear .
she spoke in choppy english .
no one lives here .
she let go and turned abruptly .
wait !
i called out and caught up to her .
what are you talking about ?
she slowly faced me and shook her head no , then hurried into her house .
what about marie and aimee ?
you must be mistaken !
but the lady was gone .
her words stayed with me .
and then it hit me .
knickknacks .
framed photos .
dirty clothes .
that was what was missing .
the lived in feeling of a teenage girls room .
i had no idea why , and i wasnt any closer to figuring out what had happened to her .
except , i knew there was more to aimee and her life then shed led me to believe .
and that was never a good sign .
twenty one finally , the big day arrived .
pouffants pastry extravaganza .
id not only find out the secret behind moms secret assignment but id see her again .
and trust me , i had a list of questions .
a long list .
i lied to dad about needing a day of shopping then slipped out .
the crisp morning air kissed my cheeks in the typical french greeting , and i headed off to the extravaganza , backpack slung over my shoulder , balancing a covered tray of cupcakes on my right arm .
i know .
lame .
i walked the streets , a pile of nerves .
the mystery of aimee and marie and their house gnawed away at the back of my mind .
and what about the piles of money stashed in the back of my closet ?
what the hell was my mom getting paid to do ?
why was taking a picture of pouffant worth that much money ?
i wasnt sure if i wanted to know the truth .
leaving the main traffic area and entering the blocked off side street used for the extravaganza was like entering a different time , like id been transported a hundred years into the past .
les pouffants was transformed .
men with berets and women with their hair rolled up in buns stood by their carts of freshly baked bread , hunks of homemade cheese , and fresh tarts .
a group of older men with beards and violins played classical music .
excitement pulsed .
but no sign of mom .
yet .
important looking men strode through with clipboards , ruining the romantic atmosphere .
tv cameras flooded the place , setting up around the big , sure to win chefs .
i approached the registration table .
the smell of sweet frosting and cinnamon laced the air .
i bumbled through beginner french to get my number , then searched for the corresponding table .
you , little girl .
i ignored this statement because why would anyone call me a little girl ?
i guess older men consider teenagers to be little .
excuse moi !
girl .
i stopped and turned .
no way .
pouffant , with his grey hair curling at the sides , peered down at me from atop his throne .
his big old belly protruded out and if he swung at the right time he could take someone out with it .
but his eyes freaked me out .
id never noticed them before .
crystal clear blue eyes as translucent as the mediterranean sea .
a creepy chill crawled across my back .
he seemed to look right through me as if he knew all my secrets .
i forced myself to remember how he took care of the upset customer in his shop , and that he had kindness inside somewhere .
i hoped .
are you stupid , girl ?
i should whip out my camera and snap his picture , but my cupcakes were already in danger of slipping and crashing to the ground .
i glared then turned my back to him , which caused a rippling gasp to spread throughout the crowd surrounding him .
a female reporter nudged me .
she spoke in french , so i just nodded my head and said , oui .
vien ici .
come here .
i was content to ignore him , but the gap in the crowd closed and people inched forward , pushing me back toward him until there was nothing to do but turn around .
pouffant leaned close .
i applaud your efforts , girl .
entering a contest this big with professionals .
he said professionals as if the word was synonymous with royalty .
whatever .
he stepped in front of me and put his cracked and stubby fingers on my collar .
do you know who i am ?
kris kringle ?
he burst out with a jovial laugh , and i swear his belly jiggled like a bowl full of my dads homemade grape jelly .
the throng of adoring fans all laughed too .
he pulled me close .
you can joke , girl , but i promise , no one pulls a fast one on me .
he dropped his voice low so only i could hear .
i know who you are and why you are here .
a word of warning .
no one crosses jolie pouffant and lives to tell about it .
and then he let me go like i was a street urchin .
i backed away .
he knew about the camera ?
and the money ?
he couldnt .
what else could he have meant ?
shaken , i stumbled away until i found my table .
the layout was simple but breathtaking .
on top of a white paper tablecloth spread from one side to the other were different pastries and cakes in the layout of a small village .
small tarts were cars .
larger square cakes were in the shape of cottages , and it was all for me .
i double checked my number against the table number .
yep .
it was mine .
the instructions had failed to mention that i didnt have to worry about my entry .
i shoved the cupcakes under the table .
with a silly grin , i stood behind my masterpiece .
it didnt take long for my smile to fade as people pretty much ignored me .
i didnt care .
the judges had to taste my entryeven though i hadnt made itand that was all that mattered .
my hardest trial was not snacking on the tasty tidbits spread out in front of me .
and keeping my mind on my mission .
and waiting for mom .
every older female who walked past with longish brown hair wearing a scarf or a hat , i hoped would signal for me to follow .
or drop a note by my side stating a time and place to meet .
it never happened .
was she okay ?
maybe she wasnt just paranoid .
i gripped the bag over my shoulder , feeling the lumpy form of the camera against my side .
my palms grew sweaty , and i fiddled with my ponytail .
why a special camera ?
my heart rate increased exponentially .
is that so the film couldnt be traced back to anyone ?
why the secrecy ?
my mission became a reality .
just a picture .
i could do this .
i grabbed the camera from the bag and headed toward pouffant .
the crowds drifted around me .
i breathed in the heavenly scents , wishing i could dip my finger and sneak a swipe of a delicious looking cake , but i didnt want to get kicked out .
i neared pouffants table and lifted the camera to my eye .
my vision blurred and my hands shook .
i zoomed in on his table overflowing with samples from his bakery .
an army of tarts and croissants surrounded his entry .
frosting of multiple colors decorated the tops with fancy lettering and ribbons .
special glazes glinted in the sun .
then i focused on jolie , his curling hair , wiry beard , and old man nose .
i pressed the button on top of the camera .
the force of something leaving the camera pushed my body back .
two seconds later jolie pouffant fell headfirst into his pastries , obliterating the tower of flaky goodness and the surrounding army .
oh , crap .
twenty two the flood of television crews swung their attention to jolie spread eagled on a bed of pastries , and it was all i could do to swallow the vomit rising in my throat .
i shot someone .
holy crap !
i murdered a famous pastry chef in a foreign country .
or i seriously hurt the guy .
i didnt want to stick around to find out .
my legs gave way , and i stumbled backward .
if someone had noticed my presence and the backfire from the camera turned weapon , i could end up in prison .
all my dreams of college , becoming a rock star , and someday baking the perfect chocolate chip cookie disappeared .
the cold reality of prison bars , orange jumpsuits , and stale bread crusts sank into my bones .
i shivered .
but i had my answers .
mom was possibly a cold blooded assassin .
my mom , the one who baked cookies on occasion , the one who put band aids on my cuts , the one whod left years ago .
she was a killer .
and now i was too .
like mother like daughter .
no wonder she wasnt here .
or if she was , it was just to make sure i finished the job .
not to chat with me .
i needed to take the money and run .
far away .
but where ?
i had no clue .
i only knew i couldnt stay here .
i turned and strolled back to my table , arms swinging like i was taking a walk in the park , like i didnt just possibly murder a man .
back at my table , i shoved the camera into my bag and slung it over my shoulder .
so far , no one was after me .
except my highly trained spy games eye caught a man slithering through the crowds .
he wore a white apron , a poofy chefs hat , and he carried a tray .
when he neared the entrance to les pouffants , he slipped inside .
extremely suspicious since the shop was closed .
maybe killing pouffant was a distraction so he could break in .
if i was about to go into hiding , i wanted to know why .
someone had used me .
did mom know about all this ?
or was she an unsuspecting pawn simply following directions ?
after a quick glance around to make sure no one was looking , i hurried away from the chaos and toward the shop , following the man in the apron .
i ducked under the flowered trellises hung over the doorway .
the shop was closed due to the extravaganza , and the man wearing the apron had broken the lock .
i slipped inside after him .
the succulent , sweet smells were deceiving .
a place that held such wonderful pastries like cream puffs , layered cakes , brioche , and macaroons couldnt be the backdrop for murder .
the shop was quiet and dark .
i crept into pouffants lair and searched under tables and in the cleaning closet but nothing seemed out of place .
where did the man go ?
i walked around the glass cases and into the kitchen .
a door to the right was cracked open .
i tried to convince my heart to leave my throat and go back to my chest , and then i opened the door all the way .
stairs .
a musty smell tingled my nose .
the hairs along my arm rose .
with light footsteps , i went into what felt like the underworld with no clue what demons i would find .
i held my breath on the stairs , afraid of creaks , but then let it out at the bottom .
a narrow hallway , dingy and filled with cobwebs , led to a door at the end .
it was open .
i crept down the hallway but stopped abruptly at the smell curling from the open door .
i shuddered at the dank atmosphere that reminded me of scary movies and zombies .
what did a pastry chef like pouffant keep in his basement that was worth thousands and smelled like that ?
i wasnt sure i wanted to know .
voices echoed from beyond the open doorway .
one voice stood out in particular , a voice that id grown accustomed to , one that had nudged its way into my heart .
malcolms .
i knew he worked here but what the hell was going on ?
what did malcolm know ?
was he the chef whod sneaked into the shop ?
their voices drew closer , and i sprinted back the way i came .
i hightailed it up the stairs , and back in the shop .
i had two paths .
out the front door , entering my life as a fugitive , or hiding in the shop and finding answers .
crouching low , i darted across the room and ripped open the nearest door and slipped inside .
man , it was heavy .
a shock of freezing air engulfed me .
hairs instantly stuck out across my arms and down my legs .
an endless supply of signature cakes frosted to perfection waited on shelves to be delivered to some gala event .
i turned to open door number two , but voices filled the room .
i was stuck in the freezer .
with the door open a crack , i held onto every wisp of warmth i could get .
i kneeled and peered out the opening .
the maitre d , dressed like a butler with a ponytail and narrow face , smoothed the collar of his tuxedo with precise movements .
he stood by a pillar with ivy wrapped around it and faced malcolm .
wasnt the butler always guilty ?
if he found me , he could smother me with decorated cakes .
or worse , he could lock me in a freezer .
zut alors !
he said , and then a flood of french spewed from his mouth .
malcolm spoke in low tones , his voice barely reaching me .
i couldnt hear the words , never mind understand the french .
the butlers voice rang out , harsh and angry .
did he work for jolie , too ?
did either of them know about jolie ?
images of him unmoving on his bed of pastries sneaked into my conscience .
i mightve killed a man .
in cold blood .
they continued to talk .
columns of my smoky breath rose in the air and dissipated in front of me .
i searched boxes on the shelves , and they all had the same name embossed on the sides .
jolie pouffant .
the guy was the french version of betty crocker .
their words shot through the air like gunshots pinging back and forth at each other .
the butler eventually had to stop and take a breath .
he switched over to english .
and what about the prisoner ?
prisoner ?
as in aimee ?
my spine tingled .
or my mom ?
malcolm growled .
ill persuade the prisoner to talk .
isnt that why you hired me ?
the butler grumbled in french first , then said , and what about the girl ?
malcolm interjected , speaking clearly .
trust me , shes an innocent in the whole thing .
were they talking about me ?
my heart contracted so fast it pounded against my chest .
i was sure it would echo into the other room and possibly down the street .
even in the freezer , a hot flush spread across my skin , causing goosebumps to rise on my goosebumps .
the butler spoke , oui , oui .
you say that but wasnt this peyton fellow supposed to keep the girl distracted , and away from here and jolie ?
you planted the fake evidence .
you led her to the cliffs .
yet she is here .
my body turned rigid .
my fingernails dug into the palms of my hands , breaking the skin .
peyton ?
everything rushed back .
in peytons apartment , it was malcolm who brought me the rope .
at parc des buttes , it was malcolm who found the prisoner site with the same frayed rope .
had he set me up ?
i remembered his brush off .
was that guilt ?
they switched back to french , and i desperately wished id paid more attention to my french lessons in high school .
i tried to pick out what few words i might recognize .
with my eyes closed , my brain struggled to understand and remember .
one word repeated .
la mere .
as in mother .
were they still talking about me ?
and my mom ?
my mind whirled , and i had to suck in air in shallow gasps so they didnt hear me .
i pressed my head against the icy metal of the door .
the numbing cold spread .
i wished i could turn off my heart and hide it in layers of ice .
what would they want with my mom ?
or me ?
the butler spoke again , in a cold clear voice .
get the information from your girlfriend .
or i will .
my teeth chattered .
my fingers and toes were slightly numb .
the walls of the freezer seemed to close in on me .
if they didnt leave soon , id have to open the door and reveal myself .
and if i did that , i shuddered to think .
theyd probably stick me in a box labeled cream puffs and leave me to freeze .
please , please , i prayed .
leave .
as mini icicles formed off the tip of my nose , chairs scraped on the floor .
my eyes flooded with tears and i sent a silent message to my pinky toes to hold on for just a bit longer .
at last , when they left through the front door , i clumsily crawled onto the wooden planks of the floor .
heat wrapped around me , but the shivers came from deep inside .
i rubbed my stiff hands across my arms and legs , but i didnt have time to lay here and thaw .
i had to run .
fast .
i stumbled through the streets for home .
moments with malcolm tore at me .
tender moments , laughing , and flirting .
hed acted like he liked me when clearly it was all a ruse .
anger rose above my fear .
my eyes widened , breaking the frozen tears that were still in my eyelashes .
malcolm had transformed from cute waiter to clueless spy to double agent , hired to gather information on me .
and they must have kidnapped aimee to do it .
the next day , i was downing my fifth cup of coffee when someone knocked on the door .
on a normal day , a knock at the door wouldnt freak me out , but yesterday pouffant had hinted i was getting troublesome , and he didnt seem to be the type of person to fool around .
i grabbed the largest frying pan we owned and crept toward the door .
with one hand on the doorknob and one on the ultimate weapon of death , i called out in a shaky voice , who is it ?
hey , its malcolm .
open up .
did i welcome in a cute guy who had been hired to spy on me ?
duh , no .
but if i didnt act normal , he might suspect i knew and thenwhat if they sent someone to snuff me out early ?
no way was malcolm a hired gun .
he wouldnt hurt me .
he couldnt .
i might be just an assignment to him , but he wouldnt take my life .
i hoped .
i opened the door , letting in a blast of cooler air as malcolm walked through .
i quickly shut the door and gulped .
whats up with the pan ?
he asked .
i flipped it around , a gigantic smile on my face .
i looked back and forth between the pan and malcolm .
eggs .
scrambled eggs .
i was hungry .
right .
totally lame answer , but it was better than the truth that i was prepared to take someone out with it .
i crossed the living room into the kitchen and eased the pan onto the stovetop , then positioned myself behind the kitchen table .
distance .
i needed to keep our distance so i could think clearly .
what brings you here ?
did my dad ask you over again ?
he showed me his stuffed backpack .
thought we could head to a quiet little park somewhere .
yeah , not in the mood .
sorry .
i stayed behind the table .
and we dont have a real good history in public .
true .
we can stay here .
he turned his back to me and reached into his backpack .
two seconds later , he twirled around and blew into a party horn , the loud blast knocking apart my suspicions .
heard you made it through to the extravaganza finals .
he grinned .
what ?
surprise must have showed on my face .
you didnt stick around long enough to hear the results ?
no .
not with the big commotion going on .
i got out of there .
and i was freezing my ass off while learning you were a spy .
that was all .
so what happened anyway ?
my voice cracked .
images of pouffant landing on top of his pastries popped into my mind , the squished cakes , the smeared frosting , and the gasping crowds .
this was where id learn if i was a cold blooded murderer or not .
twenty three malcolm lowered the party horn and plopped his pack down .
oh , right .
pouffant .
i guess someone in the crowd shot him with a tranquilizer gun .
he zipped open his pack .
i cant believe you didnt know youd won .
won ?
the words floated , hovering nearby , but i couldnt quite catch them to speak .
relief flooded my arms and legs , and my body sagged .
i wasnt an assassin .
better yet , my mom wasnt an assassin .
malcolm caught my arm .
are you okay ?
honestly , winning that contest is about impossible .
you beat out top pastry chefs .
just luck , i murmured .
no such thing as luck in that contest .
congrats .
he pulled a soft blanket from his pack .
of course he was right .
i certainly hadnt created my entry .
someone with the skills had helped me win .
but why ?
what would i have to do at the extravaganza finals ?
not sure i wanted to know .
the finals are in two weeks .
for now , lets celebrate .
he pulled out grapes , bread , cheese , and champagne .
hopefully it wasnt drugged with truth serum .
i watched with a keen eye as he set up everything on the floor of my living room .
if he were to question me would he wait until before or after the champagne ?
and if i didnt answer what would he do ?
i shook off my paranoia .
i was just an assignment to him .
not a target .
he patted the blanket .
come on .
i promise i wont bite .
id heard those words before .
are you sure you want to do the whole blanket picnic thing ?
it didnt work out too well for us the last time .
i thought we were past that .
im offering you a chance to redeem yourself .
a crafty look played across his face .
he brushed his hair out of his eyes and smoothed the edge of the blanket .
i half smiled at his show of nerves and joined him on the blanketat the farthest edge .
malcolm popped a grape in his mouth .
so , savvy bent , tell me about yourself .
obviously he was going with the not so subtle approach to questioning .
i relaxed , a little .
what do you want to know ?
what about your family .
i know your dad .
how about your mom ?
i was right .
they had been talking about mom .
i could play his game .
in ninth grade , she was a state champion in chinese checkers .
she tried to teach me the higher levels of strategy for the game , but i never had a real interest .
i took complete pleasure in watching malcolms facial expressions go from excited to frustrated at my trivial answers .
he flashed me a fake smile .
what else did she like to do ?
any hobbies ?
i bit into a hunk of bread and held up my finger , so he had to wait while i chewed .
after sipping on champagne , i finally answered .
she wasnt like normal moms .
she was extreme about her exercise regime .
really ?
he tilted his head and gave me his full attention .
oh , yeah .
she got up before the crack of dawn to run like fifteen miles .
i tried to act as sincere as i could .
shed sprint across the nearby cow pastures and hurdle hay bales .
i swear she was psycho .
i loved her but i wouldve appreciated more chocolate chip cookies straight from the oven .
that was true , but it wasnt because she was playing leapfrog with hay bales .
it was more like business trip after business trip .
malcolm did a fairly good job of hiding his excitement at the info , but his hand trembled as he downed his glass of champagne .
i poured him another .
what else ?
he asked , ripping off a chunk of bread .
i tapped my head .
lets see .
my friends always thought she was kinda weird because shed spend hours in the backyard , shooting at targets .
i had to stop inviting them over because shed scare them away .
i dont even want to talk about the knife throwing .
he moved behind me and rubbed my shoulders .
sounds tough .
i know a little bit about obsessive parents .
i bet he did , if his story was true about his year on his own to prove himself .
as he rubbed my back and ran his fingers through my hair , i didnt know how to feel .
did he like me at all ?
i continued my story .
it was all good until i figured out the reason behind her obsessions .
he stopped rubbing and slid his hands down the sides of my arms .
again , they were trembling a bit .
i wondered how much he was getting paid .
and what was that ?
he asked .
oh , i dont want to bore you with details .
lets talk about jolie .
i cant believe someone knocked him out .
malcolm stiffened for just a second then leaned back into a casual pose , one leg crossed over the other .
probably some jealous competitor .
yeah , probably .
but i think hes bad .
savvy , hes one of the most loved figures in france .
why would you think hes bad ?
i turned and faced him .
it was my turn to pump him for information .
im serious .
and i dont think peyton had anything to do with aimee disappearing .
i think jolie did .
malcolm choked on a grape .
he pounded his chest , tears in his eyes , until the coughing attack stopped .
who knows ?
i continued .
he may have shot at us at the park and possibly on our date .
the more i thought about it , the more likely it seemed .
pouffant clearly didnt like my family or me .
after breathing deeply , malcolm raised an eyebrow .
but that was a week before the extravaganza .
he wouldnt even have heard of you .
true , but still .
on the outside , malcolms rationale made sense .
i mean , a week ago , i hadnt even heard of jolie or the prize money .
but i also knew that from our very first date malcolm had an interest in my family and malcolm worked for jolie .
heck , he probably kidnapped aimee so he could take her job .
clearly , pouffant knew about me , and they both knew something about my family that i didnt , or they were delusional .
youre right .
he couldnt have known , i said .
he gently pulled me into him .
my head rested in the crook of his neck , and he twirled my hair between his fingers .
i breathed deep .
control .
nice and easy .
would anything distract him from his mission ?
i lifted my head slightly and brushed my lips against his neck .
his vein pulsed and his breathing quickened .
as expected , he gently pushed me away .
youre killing me , he said .
moi ?
i asked innocently .
what did you discover about your mom ?
what was the reason behind her obsessions ?
you cant leave a guy hanging .
i planted small kisses on his neck , moving up to his jaw .
hmm .
you dont really want to talk about my parents , do you ?
he responded by lifting my chin with his finger .
his gray eyes searched my face , moving from my eyes and lingering on my lips .
he moved closer until our lips were inches apart .
sure i do .
i gave in and whispered , after she returned from a trip , i looked through her stuff and found some secret documents .
i think she was some kind of , i paused as his eyes grew wider , spy .
did you find anything else ?
he gently kissed me as if he really didnt care about my answer .
each brush of his lips against mine was turning my brain to mush .
tiny sparks of heat spread from the touch of his fingers on my skin .
was he feeling anything ?
i struggled to find the right words , because i didnt want to burst his spy bubble , but i also didnt want him spreading lies about my family .
i kissed the soft spot below his ear and mumbled , actually , im just joking .
he jerked away , breaking from our light kisses .
his hands dropped from my arms as if my skin were poison .
what do you mean ?
before answering , i decided it was wise to move within grabbing range of the frying pan .
id gotten the information i needed .
he didnt care about me , and that stung .
my mom isnt a spy .
i forced a giggle .
she was like every other work consumed mom in america .
the only thing she ever exterminated were the dust bunnies under our couch .
good one .
the next thirty minutes , i kept the banter as light as i could , considering i was miserable and wanted to tie him up and leave him somewhere butt naked .
finally , he packed up to go , stating he had to work at les pouffants .
more like go back and report .
what ?
leaving so soon ?
i said .
we havent even talked about my dad yet .
i bit my lip right after the words left my mouth , and we locked eyes , the silent questions coursing between us , both of us wanting to know what the other one knew and willing to do anything to get it .
i had info the maitre d wanted .
and if the maitre d worked for jolie , then that meant the great jolie pouffant wanted to know .
that was when i decided it was my turn to spy .
on malcolm .
he might hold the answers .
twenty four while gray rambled on about the business , i hid behind my latte .
we were huddled around a big white plastic table in the warehouse , and the chill rising off the cement floor and leaking in through the windows set my teeth to rattling .
i rubbed my arms and blew into my hands to warm my fingers .
though chilled on the outside , a fire burned in my belly .
i felt like a large black cauldron with all the memories of the past couple weeks churning , bubbling , and boiling .
the lies .
the messages .
the trickery .
i had lost touch with the truth .
and malcolm sitting across the table looking oh so suave and knowledgeable just added fuel to the fire .
my head pounded .
clues , images , and snippets of conversations swirled in and out of my brain .
what had happened to aimee ?
and what did that have to do with me ?
her grandmothers cottage was abandoned , the neighbor warned me to stay away , and i had no leads .
as gray finished up his end of the meeting , dad shuffled papers ready to embark on a long list of to dos .
so .
my voice echoed in the large room but still sounded small and wimpy .
i cleared my throat and spoke louder .
i dont think spy games clients are all that impressed with our dramatic entrance .
frankie smirked .
nancy gave me her motherly smile .
gray ignored me .
so did dad .
malcolm studied me .
your dad explained it to me , he said .
sounds like fun .
i bet clients love it .
i pictured malcolm tied up in a chair while bat turds dropped from the rafters into his hair .
with that image in mind , i said , i had a conversation with a client and she mentioned it was kind of show offy .
okay , that conversation never happened , but no one had to know .
dad cut in .
the entrance stays .
he rambled on , but i quickly lost interest .
i pictured walking over to malcolm with a power drill in one hand , ready to torment him , and the fear on his face when he broke down crying , admitting his guilt .
every once in a while , malcolm tried to catch my eyes , but i refused to play his game .
i refused to be another toy in his chest .
savvy ?
dad asked .
everyone was staring at me .
yes ?
what do you think ?
will that work ?
a blush crept across my skin .
i had to cover .
i couldnt disappoint him .
yup .
great idea .
a part of me wished i knew what i was agreeing with .
dad can brainstorm some pretty wacky ideas .
like dropping from ceilings .
but i couldnt ask him to repeat it .
he wanted me to be the perfect spy games staff .
enthusiastic .
attentive .
in control .
the rest of the meeting , i imagined different ways to torture malcolm .
except , it made me miss aimee , because she would have had great ideas .
id never felt so far away from helping her as i did right then , sitting through a meeting , with her replacement at the table .
it was like shed been erased from the earth and no one cared .
does anyone here even miss aimee ?
my voice was louder than i meant it to be .
dad took control .
savvy , of course we do , but were happy shes living her dreams .
you believed that note ?
i looked into the eyes of my co workers , pleading for someone to take my side .
gray spoke up .
why wouldnt we ?
i pushed my chair back , causing a terrible screeching noise that sent shivers up my back .
because she never said goodbye .
she never talked about it and thats not like her .
how long did you know her ?
malcolm asked .
in my snootiest voice , i said , six months .
malcolm leaned back .
it takes years to know someone .
most people are putting up a front of how theyd like people to view them .
what ?
did you take psychology ?
he seemed embarrassed to be fighting over words with me .
actually , ive taken two courses online .
great .
we had something in common .
he looked around at all the staff .
given that six months is only a fraction of the time needed to fully understand someone or have them share secrets , we have to assume aimee is telling the truth .
dad rubbed the scruff on his chin , clearly impressed .
my limbs trembled .
how could malcolm betray me like that ?
id told him all about aimee .
wed spied on peyton together and searched aimees apartment .
i thought hed agreed with me .
but that was before i knew he worked for jolie , before he set the kidnapping up to look like peyton was guilty , and before he tried to exact information from me over a living room picnic .
how could dad believe malcolm over me ?
tears threatened .
the embarrassing kind .
i couldnt take it anymore .
i slammed my hand on the table , then instantly regretted it as pain shot through every finger .
aimees in trouble .
i turned and left before dad could put me in chains and ship me off to siberia .
i spent the next day fuming that malcolm had tried to seduce me for info on my family and then jerked me around at the staff meeting .
so not cool .
while silently cursing him , i prepared for operation take down malcolm .
where you going , savvy ?
dad asked from his slumber on the sofa .
not sure how dads do that .
mine can snore away , mouth open , drool spilling , and still know whats going on around him .
heading out for a run .
and a little bit of espionage .
i smoothed down my black shirt over my black pants .
i looked a little bit like the wannabe spies i mocked , but i wasnt going to dwell on that .
okay .
sounds good .
im going to , um , continue working .
he picked up a folder to review .
yeah , right , i laughed to myself .
i might stop by malcolms to review some spy games rules .
hows he coming along ?
will he be a good replacement ?
he lowered the file , his eyes fixed on me .
i had a good feeling when i hired him .
we were lucky .
right .
just the word replacement turned aimee into a piece of tupperware .
hell be just peachy .
on my way to the metro , i let the cool air clear my mind .
id give anything to talk to aimee .
shed tell me in a flash if this were ludicrous or brilliant .
shed laugh at the irony .
of me .
spying .
not only on peyton , but now on malcolm .
for so long id ignored all the times dad tried to chat up the spy games life , and here i was , going off on another spy mission .
looking for aimee could be considered spying , but id never felt in any real danger .
this pouffant guy , on the other hand , was obsessed enough with my family to plant a spy in our lives and to shoot at meor hire someone to shoot at me .
twice .
malcolms darkened window mocked me .
what does a guy like him do in his spare time ?
i hadnt really talked to him since hed tried to question me about mom , which had totally flopped on one hand , but on the other hand , revealed his true colors .
a shade called double agent .
after walking up to malcolms apartment , i stopped and pressed my ear to the door .
silence .
i knocked , ready to run if i heard any movement .
nothing .
i wiggled one of dads fancy devices in the keyhole and the lock popped .
with a slight turn , the door opened .
i slipped in like a night shadow .
twenty five i swept through malcolms apartment like a small whirlwind , opening drawers , rifling through closets .
there had to be something .
a phone number .
a picture .
a diary .
or maybe chocolate chip cookies from his momif the story about his family were true .
i stormed through his bedroom , closets , and kitchen looking for something , anything .
about aimee .
about me .
about jolie .
something to tie the pieces together .
after about half an hour , i plunked down at the table .
i had to stop thinking like nancy drew , searching for clues in the cupboards .
he was too good to leave information about my family exposed or to leave a picture of jolies prisoner under a magnet on his fridge .
i sank into one of his kitchen chairs .
who was malcolm ?
i mean who was he really ?
why , malcolm ?
i closed my eyes , willing the walls to whisper his secrets .
i started thinking about his connection to jolie and their connection to my mom , but then my thoughts turned to the gray flecks in his eyes and the curious way he studied me .
his burning touches on my arm and the gentle whisper of his lips on my skin .
i shook the memories away .
he was probably faking it all anyway .
a laptop .
thats what i needed .
better yet , a cell phone , but he was too smart to leave that lying around .
i opened the closet doors and shined my flashlight into it .
this was where hed kept our disguises .
maybe he kept laptops in here too .
nothing .
i stopped rushing around and let my eyes wander the kitchen , taking in everything slowly , not missing an inch .
and there it was .
sitting next to the coffee maker .
his laptop .
how had i missed it ?
i gently opened it and pressed power .
someone like him would have passwords , right ?
i tried everything .
email .
internet .
everything was locked down .
he was good .
i opened a folder left on the desktop .
immediately a document popped out at me .
bent .
my .
last .
name .
he had a file on me .
the mouse hovered over the file .
all i had to do was click on it .
did i really want to know what he had on me ?
on my family ?
hell , yeah .
i clicked on the file .
no pictures of me walking across a street like i expected , or my mom at the eiffel in her disguise , or even my dad , hair slicked back , wearing shades .
instead there was a picture of just some normal looking guy in khakis .
i scrolled down but the text was complete gibberish .
encrypted .
i couldnt read it if i tried .
my life had been reduced to a bunch of squiggles and a picture i didnt recognize .
a high pitched giggle from outside malcolms apartment cascaded over me like confectioners sugar .
i ran to the door and peeked out .
malcolm was stumbling up the stairs with some blonde hanging off him .
his roving hands encircled her waist , and he kissed her neck as they lost their balance and almost fell .
they paused halfway up the stairs , and he whispered in her ear , nuzzling her neck .
seriously .
get a room .
except , they were about to get one .
in malcolms apartment .
in less than three seconds , i slammed the laptop shut and crawled into the tiny closet that wasnt meant for people .
just as i slid the doors shut , they waltzed into the room .
soooo , malcolm drawled .
would you like a drink to top off the evening ?
was he drunk ?
sure , oozed her sugary voice .
glasses clinked .
i had to separate my emotions from the job at hand and be heartless so the ache in my chest would go away .
why dont we have some fun and play a game ?
malcolms voice was sultry and suggestive .
i doubted he had connect four in mind .
the voice that had once caused my heart to flutter now made it race with fury .
man whore .
ooh , sounds naughty , the blonde replied .
i love it .
what do you have in mind ?
all i could picture was strip poker .
its a game i call truth or lie , malcolm said , and i could picture the gleam in his eye and the curve of his lips .
poo .
that doesnt sound like fun .
let me explain .
chairs moved against the floor .
i was sure she didnt need much convincing .
i say something about myself and you have to decide if its the truth or a lie .
ooh , and if im right , then you take off an article of clothing .
and take a shot .
great .
i knew it .
a stripping and a drinking game .
you start , malcolm said .
okay .
more giggles .
last summer i climbed mt .
everest .
that was so obvious .
she clearly just wanted to get naked .
lie , malcolm answered .
howd you know ?
giggles .
there was silence as i was sure the shot was poured and an article of clothing cast to the floor .
she probably didnt start with her socks .
i hoped her bra was old and ratty .
my turn .
malcolm paused , probably trying to subdue the temptation to rip off all her clothes and skip the foreplay .
i come from a long line of assassins , going back hundreds of years .
my mouth opened slightly in shock .
a family of assassins ?
right .
i taught him everything he knew about being a secret agent .
or so id thought .
more giggles .
lie .
howd you see through me ?
i tried my hardest not to picture him ripping off his shirt and revealing his impeccable pecs , which id seen before .
id love to move the game to the bedroom , she said .
tsk .
tsk .
it has to be something about yourself .
silence .
as im sure she racked her empty head for something to say .
i giggle when im nervous .
no , really ?
true , malcolm said .
i sat through various questions about family pets , siblings , childhood , and embarrassing moments .
i could have learned more about malcolm , but most of the words dribbling from his mouth were lies .
eventually , it all became white noise as i studied the grime on the inside of the door .
when they stopped rambling and laughed and moaned , heading away from the kitchen and toward the bedroom , i couldnt take it anymore .
i eased open the sliding door without a sound and crawled out , my body stiff and sore .
with a scathing look toward the bedroom , which i hoped malcolm felt burning a blister onto his probably naked butt , i snatched the laptop from the table and put it back on the counter .
i think you might be taking spy games a little too seriously .
i jumped a mile then whipped around .
malcolm stood at the edge of the kitchen , like a cat about to eat his favorite meal .
where the hell was a frying pan ?
twenty six i. .
.
um .
.
.
stopped by to talk about spy games .
then you showed up with her .
i jerked my thumb toward his bedroom .
i felt stupid , so i hid in the closet .
malcolm flashed a wry grin , like he didnt believe me .
when you werent here , i decided to upload the info to your laptop .
so lame .
wheres the flash drive then ?
he asked .
i smiled and cheese practically fell out my mouth it was so fake .
darn .
i forgot it .
ill have to get it to you tomorrow .
what is going on ?
the blonde said in her cute little french accent and slung her arm over his shoulder in an attempt to drag him back to the room .
i have something i need to take care of .
maybe we should call it a night .
he leaned back and whispered in her ear .
she gave me the evil eye before kissing his cheek .
you live close enough to walk ?
malcolm asked as he followed her to the door .
no worries .
i will call friends .
bonsoir .
the blonde left and the door clicked shut .
malcolm turned and blocked the doorway with his body .
major adrenaline kicked in , causing my body to tremble .
somehow i had to get him away from the door so i could get out of here .
i swiped the counters looking for something to throw at him but he was too clean .
a cupboard hung partly open .
i grabbed a plain white dish and held it out like a shield .
malcolm stepped closer .
we need to talk .
yeah right , i said .
his kind of talking probably meant torture of some kind .
give me one minute and then ill let you leave .
he poured on the innocence and charm with his little lost boy expression .
please ?
fine .
i kept the plate up not really sure how it could protect me but it was better than nothing .
talk .
he moved away from the door .
what are you doing sneaking around my place ?
and dont give me the same line about passing on information on spy games .
what are you doing asking so many questions about my mom ?
i clenched my teeth and settled in for a fight .
he reached toward me as if to grab my hand but i stepped back and waved the plate like it was some kind of medieval sword .
not one step closer until you answer .
i was just trying to get to know you .
is that so wrong ?
any other girl might have been fooled , but mom lied for months about her scrapbooking , which now i doubted if she ever cut even one piece of paper or glued one button into a book .
after all that , i could now recognize the signs of a professional liar , the perfectly blank face and the relaxed shoulders and the casual pose .
i was so tired of being lied to .
so tired .
the truth .
now .
he sighed .
i like you and wanted to get to know you better .
my arms slightly trembled .
the emotion built in my chest until i yelled , liar !
in one bold move i threw the plate against the wall .
it splintered and crashed to the floor .
in the few seconds it took for him to register my actions , i booked it toward the door .
the smell of old carpets teased me from the hallway .
it was the smell of freedom .
i was almost there .
until he grabbed my arm and yanked me back into the room .
i struggled , but he was too strong .
what do you want with me ?
just tell me .
not letting go of me , he kicked out a chair with his foot .
sit .
no way .
he dragged me over to the closet where he grabbed a stray piece of rope that looked familiar .
nice rope you got there .
he grimaced at the reference to his framing peyton , which was another thing i didnt understand .
after he pushed me onto a chair , he tied my arms in the back .
i got in a few good kicks .
so now im your prisoner ?
what the hell is going on , malcolm ?
youre not my prisoner .
he grew agitated and fumbled in a kitchen cupboard .
couldve fooled me .
i dont want you running away before you hear me out .
he poured water into a small coffee maker then stood staring it .
every few seconds , his hand would run through his hair in the typical show of male frustration .
finally , he sat at the table across from me and opened his laptop , probably to catch up on his daily blog reading about how to be a jerk or how to lie to a girl effectively .
minutes later , late night coffee percolated .
the smell filled the small kitchen and i kept thinking about the words id overhead from the freezer in jolies .
they talked about my mother .
i want the truth .
he poured a cup of coffee but never took a sip .
he placed it down too hard on the table .
coffee sloshed over the sides .
the thing isi cant tell you the truth .
just , please , stop poking around in pouffants affairs for your own good .
i cant , i whispered .
i want to find my momand aimee .
youve got to understand that .
he nodded .
i swear ill never hurt you , but i cant promise that others wont .
please , just go about your way and act like a normal teen .
his words sounded familiar .
that was exactly what mom had said to me .
bingo .
that was the last thing he shouldve said .
now i knew for sure that somehow this was all connected .
if i kept my nose to the trail , id find my mom , but malcolm had to think id given up .
i let out a loud sigh .
fine .
he didnt say anything .
seconds or maybe minutes passed .
finally , i couldnt take it anymore , and my eyes wandered over to him .
his eyes peered into mine , open and honest , then dropped to my mouth .
my heart rate spiked .
jiminy crickets , he was spying on my family .
how could he look at me like he wanted to kiss me ?
what about the girl ?
i tried to keep the hurt from my voice .
he moved into the chair right next to me and pulled it up , so his knees surrounded my legs .
i closed my eyes .
savvy .
what about the girl ?
i repeated .
he kissed my cheek .
you dont have to worry about her .
my body and heart were traitors to what i knew in my mind .
that we couldnt work out .
that i was an assignment .
that he was a liar and refused to tell me the truth .
he brought his lips inches from mine .
do you still have that damn serving tray up your shirt ?
nothing registered on my face , but hed gone too far mocking my highly refined methods of defense .
id wanted to play dumb the whole time , but i needed to push and get a reaction .
it had nothing to do with the fact that he had my insides tied into knots .
the anger and hurt i felt bubbled up , and i didnt have the desire to play games with him anymore .
i spit out the words .
i know you work for jolie and youre keeping secrets .
and you probably kidnapped aimee too .
my words spurred him on as if he didnt care i knew his secrets .
thats where my plan went wrong .
he reached around behind me , pressing his chest against mine .
with a flick of his wrist , he untied the ropes from my arms .
you win .
he picked me up off the chair and put me on the kitchen table .
with one suave move , he whipped the serving tray out and let it clatter to the floor .
he moved in to kiss me , but i pushed him away .
my plan was backfiring .
he was supposed to get mad , not get turned on .
so you admit it ?
i asked .
i admit nothing .
then im done here .
i gave him one final push and scrambled off the table , straightening my hair and doing my best to smooth my shirt .
ill see you later .
savvy .
skip it .
im not interested .
you dont understand .
oh , i understand everything .
youre a man whore and all that word implies .
and i mean in more ways than in the bedroom sense .
you also whored yourself out to jolie for pay , while pretending to help me find my friend .
i needed to leave before i hurt the poor guy .
im so outta here , i said .
halfway through the doorway , i heard him shout out , the girl .
she used to work for jolie .
i stopped .
that sick feeling id gotten my facts wrong sat in my gut .
what do you mean ?
i hung out with her tonight and brought her up here to sneak in some questions about jolie .
he gripped the back of the chair .
for aimee .
id hoped the girl knew something about her or had seen her on the job .
i narrowed my eyes .
did she ?
he lowered his head .
no .
pfft .
right .
im sure it was torture for you , cross examining her .
i turned my back and let his words run through my mind .
it was hard to believe his night of seductive words and groaning had turned out to be nothing more than a spy mission .
on my behalf .
should i believe him ?
i wasnt that stupid , but he didnt need to know it .
he crossed the room and grabbed my hand .
he didnt say anything at first but ran his fingers through my hair to tuck it behind my ear .
im afraid youll take it a step too farand try to spy on jolie by yourself .
i want you stop the games and work with me .
hmm .
i was willing to play along and see where this went , but i couldnt say i trusted him .
he rubbed his thumb over the skin of my wrist then kissed the red marks the ropes left behind .
i still have questions before i can trust you .
he nodded .
go ahead .
did you have anything to do with aimee being kidnapped ?
i asked .
no .
are you working for jolie ?
yes .
im supposed to be spying on you , but im pretending in order to gain his trust and figure out if he has aimee .
how come you didnt tell me this before ?
i shot out .
honestly ?
he slid into the chair .
i didnt want to scare you .
hmm .
his story had more holes than swiss cheese .
how did he trust you so quickly ?
im a good worker .
i earned his respect quickly .
i rubbed my chin .
i didnt trust him for half a millisecond , but i needed him to believe i did .
i needed to find out more about jolie .
and why they were talking about my mother .
okay , fine .
deal .
i stuck out my hand , and we shook on it .
he really shouldnt have believed anything i said .
guess im a liar too .
because the only way to get to the truth was to spy on the big guy himself .
jolie pouffant .
twenty seven the next afternoon , i sipped my latte , letting the creamy hot liquid calm my nerves .
i pulled my hat low , to hide my face .
the atmosphere at les pouffants was just what i needed to think about aimee the chatter of french , the smell of cinnamon , and the presence of my enemy .
peyton hadnt kidnapped aimee .
malcolm and jolie had purposely led me to believe he had .
in les pouffants there was a musty smell coming from the basement .
possibly a good place to keep prisoners .
jolie didnt want me to focus on him .
bingo !
my only lead was jolie .
what mysteries was he hiding ?
was he possibly connected to my mom and the money ?
what did he know about aimee ?
why was he spying on me ?
thoughts swirled in my mind like creamer in coffee .
it was time to get to know the person behind the name .
and i could only do that by shadowing him , spying on him , hoping hed get careless and expose information .
i moved across the street from les pouffants , waiting for pouffant to leave for the day .
he must live in a grand mansion out of the city , so i was prepared .
i had money for the metro or to hire a cab if i needed to .
after my fifth or sixth latte , pouffant exited with his coat and hat .
he chatted with customers , instructed a new waiter , and then took off down the street at a brisk stroll .
time for action .
he must be off on some devious mission of death .
with 007 music playing in my head , i slipped in and out of the crowds , just far enough behind the target that if he looked over his shoulder , id melt in with the masses .
i tracked him from the streets to the metro and then back to the streets until finally he stopped before a house .
it wasnt too big or too small .
white shutters at the windows winked at me in a friendly sort of way .
pansies lined the walkway up to the front door .
and the grass needed to be cut .
quite normal .
i stopped and hid behind a tree with my legs crossed because the five lattes had caught up with me .
this did not look like the residence of a master criminal .
there had to be some mistake .
i pulled the binoculars from my bag and narrowed in on jolie as he approached the front door .
i almost could see the confectioners sugar still lingering in his twisted beard .
the door opened .
but before i could see who welcomed him , he quickly stepped into the house and shut the door .
was this his house ?
or was he visiting someone ?
only one way to find out .
and id never felt like such a criminal .
after waiting a few minutes , i sprinted across the street to a hedge of bushes dividing the house from the neighbors .
when my breathing got back under control , i dashed across the small yard until i reached jolies house .
i leaned against the siding , expecting his voice to ripple across the yard , yelling at me .
but i didnt hear anything like that .
his stern voice echoed from the backyard .
feeling the need for stealth , i crawled along the side of the house .
huddling next to a bush , i wrapped my coat around me , wishing it could completely hide me , wishing i could steal inside and use their bathroom without them knowing .
i leaned my head against the house , not looking , just soaking in the sounds .
their stream of french washed over me .
no english .
as i sat wondering why i thought this would be helpful and feeling totally useless at solving the mystery of aimees disappearance , i listened more carefully .
the voice of his companion was familiar , but i couldnt quite place it .
they didnt seem to be having a friendly conversation .
they were debating , words pinging back and forth at each other .
the door slammed and someone went inside .
i dared to peek around the corner .
jolie squatted low to the ground and held his hand out with some crumbs on it .
a chicken pecked at the ground .
a chicken ?
who has chickens for pets ?
but then i looked past jolie .
a tiny henhouse stood in the back of the yard , and several hens with brown speckled breasts were wandering free .
he spoke to it in soothing tones and tried to get it to eat from his hand .
squawk , squawk , jolie imitated the hen .
i choked on my saliva .
this was the man behind the name ?
in his own environment , he seemed human , almost normal , other than acting like a bird .
the door shut and an older woman walked down the steps .
on the top of her head was a bun of white hair , wisps hanging down .
her back was to me .
i held my breath , waiting for her to turn .
she poured him tea and placed a plate of cookies on the table , and then she stood off to the side as if waiting for a command .
her voice plucked my heartstrings .
my body froze .
it couldnt be .
how could i not have recognized it ?
she turned and confirmed my worst fears .
marie , aimees grandmother was jolies house slave , a servant , feeding him gingersnaps and mint tea .
i clasped my hands together to keep myself from hurdling the bushes , grabbing a potted fern and knocking him out .
how dare he keep an elderly lady captive ?
and someone as sweet as marie ?
the lines on her face seemed deeper , and her shoulders hunched over a bit more .
hed better be treating her right .
images of her locked in her room with barely any food made me dig my fingers into the ground .
were those the same clothes she wore when i visited her with malcolm ?
maybe she was kidnapped later that day ?
i fought the urge to sneak through the window for proof .
was aimee inside ?
only yards away from me ?
while jolie munched on cookiesand hopefully pulled out a filling or something terrible like thati could be sliding in between the shadows of the house , saving my friend .
but wait .
dad would never believe me without proof .
i had proof !
i pulled my phone from my pocket and with one touch put it on camera mode .
without looking , because thats how good spies do it , i aimed my phone around the corner of the house to capture jolie and marie together .
proof .
or the start of it .
id come back tomorrow , rescue them both , and head to the police with evidence .
id be a hero .
a strong hand grabbed my wrist .
twenty eight with a quick but strong yank , someone pulled me from my hiding spot .
i tumbled and landed on my stomach , face in the grass , right next to a hen pecking at seeds .
would jolie believe i was lost ?
he kicked out a black wrought iron chair .
please , join me .
should i make a run for it ?
use the potted plant ?
or stay calm and draw on my spy games experience to pull information from him without him even knowing it , like taking candy from a baby .
his voice held fake enthusiasm .
how nice of you to drop by .
how timely .
we have cookies and tea .
i pushed onto my knees and squinted up at him through the glare of the setting sun .
his full , curly beard still held crumbs from his day in the kitchen .
his clear blue eyes were smart and didnt miss anything .
like the picture i took .
he held the phone in his chapped hands and flipped through my pictures , including ones of aimee .
i searched his face for any recognition .
he nodded and smiled then tossed the phone on the table .
i had a feeling the pictures of him and marie were deleted .
i sat on the edge of the chair and tried to catch maries eyes but she stood off to the side , looking at the ground .
he spoke to her in french , and without a glance in my direction , she walked inside .
how dare he ?
but then i remembered my mission .
i needed to be suave , gentile , and sophisticated .
these cookies look delicious .
is that your neighbor who baked them ?
he waved his hand .
pfft .
non .
we have always had this tradition .
meet after work and sip tea while talking .
do you have such traditions with your family ?
um .
yeah , sure .
i racked my brain .
we used to .
back when mom lived at home in pennsylvania , and we were a family .
but since wed arrived in france it was all about spy games .
our traditions revolved around the latest gadgets for listening in on a conversation or how to put the biggest scare into clients .
the last words mom spoke to me were directions to burn the package , which i didnt do .
i did miss one tradition id started in paris .
i used to meet my close friend aimee for croissants every morning .
his mustache twitched before he stroked it into obedience .
ah yes .
at my caf .
you two met at les pouffants , non ?
oui .
i mean yes .
we used to .
my determination slipped a bit .
traditions , meeting with friends and family that is the joi de vive .
nothing more important than family .
you agree ?
his eyes narrowed in on me .
yes .
i agree .
id do anything for a friend .
was he threatening me ?
he pushed the plate of cookies closer .
you see .
we are not that different .
a chilly night breeze ruffled my hair , carrying the smell of late blooming flowers from the edge of the yard .
he and i ?
not that different ?
what happened to your friend ?
i have not seen her there .
what happened ?
how dare he ?
any resolve i had to be 007 disappeared .
i thought you might know something about that .
considering youre making her grandmother be your servant .
excuse moi ?
he puffed his belly out a bit more .
i gripped the sides of the table and stared him down .
yes .
i know the truth .
i know marie .
i would know her gingersnap cookies anywhere .
i stood up and inched toward the side .
i know aimee , her granddaughter .
i know the two of them disappeared last week .
and now i know youre a liar .
tinges of red appeared on his neck and cheeks .
he spluttered a bit .
girl , you do not know what you are talking about .
yes , i do .
i demand you release them .
now .
and my name is savvy .
savvy bent .
my voice quavered a bit , and my threats seemed silly as the hen pecked at my feet .
jolie roared with laughter , great big bouts that dwindled down to chuckles .
when he finally stopped , tears streaming into his beard , he took one look at me and burst out laughing again .
my dear .
you are quite amusing .
i stopped inching away .
you are a washed up pastry chef heading past his prime .
release the prisoners , and i wont report you to the police .
his boisterous laughter made my blood run cold in my veins .
im serious .
i put my hands on my hips for emphasis .
suddenly he was by my side , his fingers digging into my arm .
you can call the police if youd like .
ill even give you your phone back .
he whispered in my ear .
it will be a waste of time .
the police know me and would never doubt a famous chef .
i snorted .
they probably know you because you paid them off .
possibly .
but playtime is over .
my interest in you is waning .
thank you for the brief entertainment .
he pulled me toward the back of the yard , his footsteps quick and sure .
his agility amazed me .
i pulled back , realizing that he might be more dangerous than his rolipoliness let on .
well , thanks for the cookies .
my dads expecting me home .
he grunted his disapproval as we reached the back of the yard .
the henhouse was a dingy gray and a distinct odor wafted between its walls .
i wrinkled my nose .
did you want me to make you scrambled eggs for dinner ?
id be happy too .
i regretted the words as soon as i said them .
he opened the door and pushed me toward the small opening .
i pushed back .
i dont think so , i grunted , but his powerful grip steered me toward the small house .
this was it .
id be locked up with the hens for probably the next week living off raw eggs .
he didnt think twice about keeping a prisoner , which was more proof hed taken aimee and marie captive .
okay so they werent chained in the basement , but something was very wrong .
jolie and i were caught in a push and shove battle .
with one last shout , i let a kick fly , hoping to catch him in the stomach .
but he grabbed my foot and with a twist that sent pain shooting up my leg , he pushed me into the house and slammed the door .
i pounded on it .
you cant keep me in here .
i wont keep you forever .
just a little payback for the tranquilizer dart .
i went silent .
what could i say ?
what ?
no smart answer to that ?
yes , i know all about that .
the latch clicked .
why dont you think about how wrong your actions were , and ill be back later .
i was alone .
in a henhouse .
i still had my phone , but who was i going to call ?
dad ?
no way .
malcolm ?
impossible .
id told him i wouldnt spy on jolie .
basically , i had no one .
feathers ruffled and one hen jumped to the dusty floor .
were hens protective of their eggs ?
would they attack ?
had jolie left me to die at the claws of a bunch of chickens ?
i wanted to send a quick text to stephen king .
i had the perfect idea for his next horror novel .
crazy pastry chef collects prisoners like keepsakes and tortures them with the smell of chicken poop .
a cobweb brushed against my cheek , and i let out a tiny scream .
i pressed my back up against the door , ready to kick any flying poultry that came at me .
with a wave of my arms , i tried to shoo the hen away .
she cocked her head and stared at me .
i could see through its beady eyes to the small workings in its teeny brain .
it was debating if i was a threat or not .
i pasted on a cheesy smile .
squawk !
im a friend .
no worries .
i wont touch your eggs no matter how hungry i get .
i promise .
after a three second stare down , she turned and pecked at a non existent corn kernel on the floor .
i breathed a sigh of relief now that the immediate threat of death by pecking had disappeared .
i leaned my head against the strong but rickety door , no longer caring about the cobwebs or the chickens .
so much for my 007 act .
i never claimed to be a great spy and this proved it .
while thinking about my mom , her strange words , and malcolms double dealings , i mustve dozed off because when the door opened and i tumbled backward down the small ramp , i wasnt prepared .
at all .
twenty nine i scrambled to my feet .
marie stood over me with a finger to her lips , pointing to the side yard .
leave .
quickly .
i searched her eyes but found nothing that revealed the truth .
whats going on ?
are you okay ?
is aimee okay ?
she shook her head .
you must leave now .
i must get back inside .
but .
.
.
i tried to argue , but she forcibly pushed me away .
when i heard jolie call to her from inside the house , i took one last look at her warm eyes before running .
the next morning , i was ready to go .
but this time i was prepared .
water bottles , granola bars , camera , binoculars , hairpins , band aids , and a crowbar .
if i were going to end up in a dirty henhouse again , id have the basics .
i strode into the kitchen , confident , in control , ready to take on the world of espionage with the best of them .
dad sat at the kitchen table buried in the newspaper as usual .
i poured a cup of coffee , black this time .
i didnt need a sugar crash later in the day .
the steam coated my face in warmth .
any more shootings ?
i asked .
thankfully , no .
but ive pulled shooting blanks at our clients from the program , for now , until this dies down .
i bit into an apple and munched .
good idea .
every morning , any time dad and i bumped into each other , spy games became the topic of the day .
i could change and let him into my life by talking about malcolm , or about mom .
but if i brought those subjects up , and dad asked questions or we fell into a serious talk , id have to lie .
i dont think hed do well with , oh , by the way , mom could be an assassin , or yeah , funny thing , malcolm is spying on our family and a pastry chef might have it out for me , or even worse , i have thousands of dollars stuffed in my closet .
yeah , no .
he had experience running a business , and anything i said hed blow off as paranoia .
or hed take over and lock me in my room .
no way .
i played his game .
hows the new route coming along ?
are we ready for spy games this weekend ?
he flipped down the newspaper and gave me the eye , suspicious that i even cared .
i dont blame him because most of me didnt .
it was called deflection .
lets talk about you so we dont talk about me .
and he always fell for it .
its great .
were all set for this saturday .
i think the new addition will be perfect .
im thinking of expanding even more , trying for a game every weekend instead of twice a month .
money ?
i asked , suddenly feeling guilty about the hidden wads of cash , and remembering the phone call id heard from under his bed .
but i had no idea where the money came from .
what if i used it and then found out it was stolen and some mad man with muscles the size of a truck came after me and broke my kneecaps ?
no thanks .
well , yes .
and it will be good for the business .
get the word out .
his eyes flicked to the clock on the coffee maker and then to the front door .
expecting someone ?
i finished my apple and tossed it into the trash .
dad nodded to the fridge .
there are some leftover pancakes in the fridge if you want them .
thanks .
i warmed them up in the microwave , not falling for dads trick of changing the topic .
maybe i learned my conversational tactics from him .
while dowsing them in syrup , i said casually , so , someone stopping by ?
gray ?
nancy ?
dad coughed and lifted the newspaper .
spy games business .
dont think , i stuffed pancakes in my mouth , that i cant see what youre doing .
what ?
dad feigned shock .
thats right .
vague answers .
what do you want me to do ?
a smile lit up his face .
i thought youd never ask .
someone knocked on the door .
and perfect timing , dad said .
come on in !
malcolm entered , and i about peed my pants .
good going , dad .
thirty minutes later , malcolm and i stood outside the notre dame cathedral .
tourists brushed past us to enter the old church , but i wasnt ready .
again , the cobblestones got to me .
i loved them .
i lifted my head straight back and stared up at the stone structure carved with so many saints and intricate details .
incredible .
that might be why i barely noticed when malcolm slipped his arm around me .
you ready ?
he asked .
if history could be carried on a breeze , it rushed and swirled around me .
the sounds of ancient priests , the clip clop of horses , the ring of the giant bell i knew was hidden in the cathedrals towers .
can you imagine ?
i whispered .
what ?
he whispered back .
being here , living here .
sometimes id love to touch the iron fence , the right one , and id travel back in time .
that sounds great , but i have to work this afternoon .
and were on a mission for your dad .
right .
i shook it off along with malcolms arm .
lets go .
as we walked under the arches , i felt the crowbar press through the backpack into my back .
i shouldnt have to use it if i played the game .
and if malcolm didnt act suspicious .
again , an overwhelming sense of history in the black and white checkered floor and the vaulted ceilings washed over me .
the long halls and the muted light filtering in through the stained glass windows made me whisper .
i dont think this is going to work for spy games .
why not ?
malcolm spun , his outstretched arm pointing to the interior .
i think its great .
another big tourist place .
yeah , but its a church .
isnt it wrong to play games here ?
and we have to pay to get to the towers .
dads looking to cut costs .
we paid the fee and headed toward the start of the spiral stairs .
thats what your dad said when i suggested we check this place out this was your idea ?
i stopped in my tracks , right at the bottom of the stairs .
a chill descended into my bones .
he set this whole thing up ?
since i didnt trust malcolm , i had to look at the deeper reason he brought me here .
i knew he didnt care about spy games .
isnt this the church famous for the hunchback ?
i asked .
yes , exactly .
thats why i think people will love it , especially americans .
that hunchback was held prisoner in the towers overlooking paris .
held prisoner .
was this a veiled threat ?
or was i being too melodramatic ?
all of a sudden every tourist pointing a camera in my direction became the enemy .
every man in a suit coat with a bluetooth in his ear became a possible assassin .
what if jolie had goons following us with plans to shoot me down with a special camera ?
its been done before .
i could end up in something worse than a smelly chicken coop .
like a coffin .
after they extracted whatever secret information they thought i had embedded deep in my psyche .
adrenaline rushed through my limbs , and i wanted to whip out the crowbar , just in case .
i took a deep breath and forced myself to climb the stairs .
from the outside , i had to look like i was enjoying myself , out on a date with a cute boy .
i grabbed malcolms hand and swung our arms like we were an innocent couple in love .
he sneaked a glance at me and smiled .
in that moment , i wanted to tell him everything .
about the money , the extravaganza , that i had no clue what they wanted to know .
that i wasnt a spy , that i wasnt a danger to anyone .
a part of me trusted him , trusted the nice boy who planned picnics and wanted me to be safe .
what ?
then i remembered his conversation with pouffant , his willingness to spy on me .
i was just thinking how weve got a lot of stairs to climb .
lets get started .
we climbed around and around and around .
the stairs were endless .
my legs burned .
how much longer ?
i puffed out .
were almost halfway .
trust me , the climb is totally worth it .
even if we dont use it in spy games , youve got to make the climb at least once .
im not sure about that .
theres no way we can do this for the games .
just climbing the stairs will take two hours !
i stopped to rest .
an echo of footsteps behind us also stopped .
okay , i said , lets do this .
after a couple minutes , i stopped .
again , a few seconds later , the footsteps behind us stopped too .
we were being followed .
thirty come on , malcolm called over his shoulder .
were almost halfway .
and theres a small caf !
i ran to catch up with him .
i might not have any real spy skills but i was a teenage girl with a healthy dose of gut instinct , and my gut was telling me to get the hell out of there .
fast .
at the same time , my chest ached deep inside .
i couldnt ignore the overwhelming sadness that he probably didnt really like me when i was totally crushing on him .
at the tiny but adorable caf halfway up , i begged off to use the bathroom .
locked in the stall , i sat on the toilet and brought my legs up to my chest .
i took little comfort in the feel of the metal tray pressed against my chest .
a plan formed .
escape here , go to jolies and rescue aimee and marie .
have jolie arrested and go to the extravaganza to complete moms mission .
and then forget all this ever happened .
first , i had to escape .
i went to the door of the bathroom and peeked outside , hoping to find malcolm waiting for me with two drinks .
but what i saw confirmed my fears .
he stood with his back to me at a postcard rack .
a man in a suit coat stood a couple feet away .
malcolm passed him an envelope , probably a payoff .
they were talking to each other , acting like two strangers , who just happened to meet up in an ancient church .
my feet itched to sprint across the room and down the stairs to freedom , but what if more goons waited down in the hallways , hiding behind statues , arms ready to grab me .
i sprinted the only place left to go .
up .
and up .
and up .
the rest of the four hundred stairs .
fear chased me , always a step away , ready to grab me .
finally at the top , i collapsed in a corner and curled into a ball .
every footstep on the stairs , every echo of a male voice , my heart rate spiked and visions of my death played with my emotions .
i stayed huddled against the cold comfort of the mighty cathedral and hoped god was watching out for me .
the grimacing demon and other winged gargoyles sent shivers through my body .
i pictured jolies face carved into one of them , complete with wings , horns , and glowing red eyes .
the devil himself .
after rubbing the cramps out of my calves , i stood and limped over to the wire mesh surrounding the entire top of the tower .
paris spread out before me with its stone buildings , lush gardens , and the eiffel in the distance .
how many more times would i be running for my life in this city until i found answers ?
did paris hold something against me ?
did my terrible accent offend her ?
no .
i wished it were that simple .
we were here because of moms apartment .
mom .
that was who this all came down to .
my trouble started when i opened the package .
all the pieces were connected to her secrets and lies .
jolie , malcolm , and aimee .
not sure how they were all connected , but id start with rescuing aimee and marie .
the golden sun rested in the lower half of the sky , but i couldnt find warmth in its rays .
a permanent chill had descended on my shoulders .
i straightened up , needing to brave the world outside the cathedral and book it over to jolies before he came home .
surely , malcolm had left .
i clomped , ran , walked , dragged myself down the four hundred stairs , only stubbing my toe twice and tripping three times .
before leaving the cathedral i searched the area , and only when i made sure there was no sign of malcolm or his buddy , i grabbed a latte at a small caf across the street .
the hot liquid trailed down my throat and spread its desperately needed warmth through my body .
i texted dad saying the mission had failed .
the cathedral was a no go for spy games .
then i got on the metro to head back closer to home , walking distance from le maison de pouffant .
the house of pouffant .
was that even his home ?
i didnt know .
and i didnt care as long as i found aimee .
at the house , i peered around the hedge , trying not to bump into the sharp twigs .
the place seemed emptyno muted lights through the window , no clinking of teacups from the backyardnothing that i could hear or see .
i gripped the straps of my backpack and studied the house .
no sneaking around this time .
the best way would be to act natural , like i belonged .
the neighbors wouldnt question a visitor opening the backdoor .
no slinking or acting like a criminal .
with quick , sure steps , i marched across the small side yard to the backyard not even glancing at the henhouse .
i peered through a window .
no one .
i hesitated at the backdoor and listened .
confident jolie wasnt home , i stepped inside into the lingering smell of cinnamon .
not surprising for the house of a pastry chef .
a girls jacket lay across a worn plaid loveseat .
a small piano wedged in the corner had music for the theme song from harry potter on the top .
a chess game sat on the table , half played .
framed pictures of family were on the wall .
my chest tightened as memories from pennsylvania rushed back .
family times with my mom and my dad .
happy times .
even if they werent perfect .
i wanted that back .
being in jolies home , which felt cozy and happy , pricked my heart .
enough .
a good spy does not let emotions cloud her mission .
not wanting to wake up a snoozing pastry chef , i crept through the downstairs .
the living room led to an open but tiny kitchen with room for a table for four .
marie ?
i whispered , then scolded myself .
i needed to sweep the whole house and be smart about this .
the stairs were at the back of the kitchen .
i tested each wooden step before putting my entire weight on them .
at the top , i could go right or left .
i poked my head in the door on the right .
must be jolies with the clean room and professionally made bed .
pouffant did not pass over the details , which scared me .
i tiptoed across the tiny hall .
a car door shut outside .
voices .
familiar ones .
my body froze up , and i couldnt get my legs to move .
fear of getting caught spread like wildfire across my skin and i had to force a swallow .
a tiny sob escaped .
why didnt i bring rope to escape out the second story window ?
or a smoke bomb ?
the front door opened , and a current of french streamed into the house , up the stairs , and wrapped around my head , entangling my legs .
i was trapped , too afraid to move in case they heard me .
maybe theyd returned for their sweaters before going back out to dinner .
the stairs creaked .
damn .
my body unfroze and survival instinct took over .
i shimmied into the bathroom and whipped back and forth for a spot to hide .
the closet filled with towels and sheets was too small .
a voice cleared on the stairs .
a deep growly voice , one that i recognized .
with a gulp , i stepped behind the flowery curtain into the shower stall and tried to control my breathing so i didnt sound like a girl terrified for her life .
i could see the outline of the sink and toilet through the curtain and realized that anyone could see me too .
i slithered to the bottom of the tub and lay down , my legs bent and turned sideways .
jolie whistled in the hall .
thirty one please , please go into the bedroom .
jolie didnt .
the floor creaked outside the bathroom and i closed my eyes , wishing i could disappear .
the whistling entered the bathroom , and i cringed .
i heard a zipper .
oh no .
i shuddered as he relieved himself .
brief thoughts of whacking him over the head with the crowbar passed through my mind but then he zipped his pants back up .
i held my breath and silently prayed .
i begged forgiveness for anything and everything .
the last argument id had with my mom before she left , my snobby disdain for spy games , and my treatment of the clients , for not being a better friend to aimee by asking more personal questions , and for eating the last package of oreos dad had brought over from the states , and then telling him a mouse had gotten to them .
if i made it through this , id confess to everything .
my breaths were short and shallow , but when his chapped hand with hairy knuckles appeared over my head , they stopped altogether .
i dont usually notice hands .
but this one could be my downfall , and it hovered inches from my face .
i closed my eyes , waiting for him to grab my ponytail and drag me out .
instead , the knob squeaked and the pipes shuddered to the life .
two seconds later , tiny pricks of freezing water struck my face , arms , and pierced my clothing .
i gasped for my breath .
a shower ?
he was taking a shower ?
his pants landed on the floor outside me .
oh crap !
water streamed into my mouth and dripped into my ears .
terrible foreboding images flashed through my brain , scarring me forever .
i did not want to see a pastry chef , this pastry chef , in the nude , with everything all hanging in the freeze .
i mean breeze .
someone rapped on the door and shouted .
they sounded rushed and upset .
i prayed again .
my lips moved in silent confession as i tried not to choke on the water .
this time , i confessed to all my deep , dark hidden secrets , like not telling dad the truth about malcolm and our date when it happened , and stealing his tracking devices to spy on peyton .
zut alors !
the water shut off .
jolie pulled on his pants .
my body trembled violently .
the girl on the other side of the door kept yelling through it .
jolie spit out directions and rushed out of the bathroom .
something had happened .
the hand of god in their lives .
to save me .
and i was supposed to be the hero .
they clomped down the stairs , and i sucked in air like i would never breathe again .
hairs were plastered to my head , and i felt like a drowned rat .
i probably looked like one too .
i listened for the front door , and then waited for what seemed like hours , shivering , trying to get warm .
when the house quieted and the panic faded , i crawled out of the tub , not caring about leaving my wet footprints .
everything clicked .
the jacket .
the harry potter music .
the girls voice .
i rushed down the tiny hall , barely staying on my feet and crashed into the girls room .
while fumbling through her desk , i thought back on the family pictures hanging in the living room .
many were old black and white photos of unsmiling ancestors .
but many showed the growing up of a girl with blonde curls .
i swayed on my feet , goosebumps popping out on my already cold and shriveled skin .
how could this be ?
i ripped open a second drawer , fighting back tears , looking for more current pictures .
finally , i found the tip of one poking out underneath a deck of cards .
i pulled the photo out .
my heart splintered .
aimee and jolie stood , with their arms around each other , smiling , happy , close .
aimee and marie werent prisoners .
they lived here .
with jolie .
they were family .
i couldnt rip my eyes away from the photo .
my friend smiled adoringly up at her grandfather .
the crinkle in the corner of her eyes that i always loved when we joked about spy games brought a tightness to my throat .
the picture slipped from my fingers and i slumped to the floor , blinking away tears .
our entire friendship was a lie .
did she even care about me ?
us ?
memories flashed of my times with aimee , whispering secrets , laughing over silly things like the ugly hat some person was wearing at the table near us .
id felt guilty because our relationship seemed focused on me .
when shed disappeared , id partly blamed myself for not asking more questions and digging into her life more , like a friend should .
but maybe , just maybe , that was how shed wanted it .
no questions .
no deep conversationsunless they were about me .
no visits to her real home here with jolie the great pouffant .
i couldnt even begin to think about the implications of this information , and the ripple effect it had in whatd happened since malcolm and i were first shot at .
i didnt want to think about it .
i couldnt .
everything seemed to close in on methe puffy pink pillows on her bed , the cute kitten posters on the wall , the flowered wallpaper .
i scooted back across the wooden floors , ready to run , escape , and eat donuts for the next two hours .
after scrambling to my feet , water still dripping from my hair and clothes , i ran down the stairs and into the kitchen .
on the bottom step , my foot slipped in the river following me , and i fell flat on my face .
in front of a giant hole in the floor .
jolies dining area off the kitchen had morphed into a gaping hole .
my eyes widened as i took in the room .
the table was turned on its side and shoved in the corner , the chairs stacked , and the carpet rolled back .
i got to my knees , crawled over to the bell shaped hole , and peered into the inky black darkness .
warm , musty air , thick and heavy rose up from the hole .
a rusty metal ladder clung to the side of the rocky wall .
did jolie and aimee go down there ?
why ?
i knew what i should do .
i should get my freakin ass out of there and walkno runstraight to my dad and tell him everything .
i mean everything .
but what secrets were they hiding down there ?
this might be my only chance to find out the mystery surrounding my close friend , or ex close friend .
and more importantly , how it was all connected to my family and me .
i couldnt be foolish about plunging into a dark pit that probably didnt lead to a nice , lighted cellar .
light .
i needed a flashlight .
all the spy gadgets and granola bars in my backpack wouldnt help me in what were probably the catacombs under paris .
werent these secret entrances totally illegal ?
i opened their kitchen drawers completely guilt free and dug around until i found a flashlight .
after one last glance into the dark hole , i sent up a pretty shallow prayer and wondered if id ever see daylight again .
time to suck it up .
i climbed down and down .
my backpack weighed a ton and dripped water with every step .
my legs trembled , and my heart pounded as the light from jolies kitchen disappeared .
i clenched the flashlight in my teeth and kept peering down , but the ladder didnt seem to end .
dizziness overwhelmed me , but i fought it off with every foot of the stone circular wall that passed .
what did they store down here ?
prisoners ?
stolen gold ?
extra pastries ?
finally , i reached the bottom .
a narrow hallway opened up before me .
i tiptoed through it , terrified with each step that a rat would run over my feet or worse id bump into a skeleton or something .
the dull , flickering flashlight cast weird shadows and barely penetrated the darkness .
the passageway was short and opened into a small cavern .
niches carved into the walls held candles with small flames lighting the way .
water seeped from the limestone walls .
a thick tree trunk like pillar of stone held up the ceiling , and the room branched off into two different hallways .
i followed the one lit with candles and shoved the flashlight into my backpack for later .
i crept along the best i could , avoiding the mud .
a layer of dust clung to my wet clothes and face .
with every step , i strained to hear voices .
but i heard nothing , only my ragged breathing and muffled footsteps .
i trailed my fingers along the small hills and valleys of the wall .
then i heard the unmistakable voices of jolie and malcolm .
arguing .
except it was in french , damn it .
thirty two malcolm being down here didnt surprise me at all .
jolie and malcolm were thick as thieves , evil twin brothers .
i shut out my broken and confused feelings and focused on the moment .
i needed a plan .
think .
think .
eventually , theyd return and go back up the ladder to jolies kitchen .
had malcolm been with him ?
or was there a separate entrance and malcolm met him ?
i needed to hide , so after they left i could figure out what the hell was so important they had to conduct business five or seven , maybe ten stories underneath their cute little cottage .
several small pillars of stacked stones were in the cavern , but nothing was wide enough to hide behind except for the hole in the wall behind one of them that was big enough for me to crawl into .
while their angry voices drifted from the other room , i crept across the floor , weaved between the pillars , and reached the hole .
my skin crawled like a zillion ants were marching over my body .
what was in here ?
did animals live down here ?
like zombie rats that had morphed into larger creatures with sharper teeth ?
their voices drew closer .
i practically dove into my hiding place , elbows and knees slamming into the knobby surface .
my head banged into the rock hard ceiling , and i bit my tongue to avoid crying out .
i crawled to the back of the hole and curled into a ball , hoping , praying , they wouldnt see me .
the crowbar in my backpack jabbed into my spine .
malcolm and jolie passed by like ghosts from the past , their shadowy images looming over my hiding place .
out of the darkness , aimee appeared .
her hair seemed a bit on the fritz and her face was pale , but she was there !
she was safe !
a part of me wanted to crawl out and give her a big hug , letting her know id never believed that stupid cover story , and say shed have to be a lot smarter to fool me in the future .
she continued to talk , a crease appearing on her forehead .
jolie lifted his arms in exasperation .
malcolm shifted onto one leg and kept glancing at the passageway like he wanted to exit stage left .
but why ?
crawling , like vermin in the deep , dark , hidden places of paris fit him perfectly .
my eyes were drawn to the way his hair fell below his eyebrows .
his lips were pressed together as if he wanted to speak his mind .
his face was pale , almost sickly , like he was nervous .
go malcolm .
tell them youre through with them !
i wanted to send telepathic messages to his brain convincing him to make better moral decisions .
a black t shirt matched his black jeans .
he looked quite the spy .
his hand rested on a coiled rope on his belt .
i looked twice , wanting to pull out my flashlight .
the rope glimmered in the soft light .
but ropes dont usually take on a gleam in candlelight .
blood rushed to my face as i realized it wasnt a rope , but a whip .
an indiana jones whip .
my jaw tensed and my teeth ground together as i held back the urge to vomit all over their feet .
there must be a practical reason malcolm would need a whip down here .
for example , maybe they found a large rodent like creature with fangs .
or maybe malcolm was practicing to become a cowboy and go back to the states and compete in rodeos .
i mean its not like you can practice that kind of thing in daylight without someone suspecting you had a prisoner locked in your basement .
oh , crap .
a prisoner .
a whip .
and he carried a small tool chest in his other hand , probably filled with corkscrews , pliers , and nail files .
construction tools were candy to someone like malcolm .
someone like malcolm .
jolie was paying malcolm to torture a prisoner ?
why ?
what kind of trouble could a pastry chef get into ?
i studied the yellowish hue of malcolms face .
was he the tough guy he pretended to be ?
or had he gotten involved in something he couldnt get out of ?
the splinters that used to be my heart broke into more splinters .
malcolm had never made me promises .
so wed shared a kiss .
big deal .
he entered the conversation and motioned toward the hallways .
they split off .
he headed down one tunnel , and jolie and aimee the other .
but before jolie swept from the room he blew out all the candles .
just what i needed .
creep factor .
i pulled out my handy dandy flashlight and flicked it on , ready to go rescue a prisoner .
a scream rose into my throat as i bit down on my hand .
the gaping eyes of a skeleton , embedded into the stones , stared at me from the ceiling .
a creepy crawly feeling attacked my body until i jumped into action .
the knobby stones dug into my knees and i shined the light down at them .
bones and more bones .
knees and elbows of the dead poked through .
i remembered feeling the hills and valleys of the walls .
bones .
i breathed in and out trying not to cry and puke at the same time .
i flashed my dim light against the walls .
i caught the reflection of gaping jawbones , nasal cavities and skulls .
i was in a crypt !
i scrambled out of my hiding place , which was more like a tomb of some kind .
i shuddered in an attempt to shake off the imagined feeling of bony fingers tracing down my spine or tickling my toes .
the breath of past souls on my neck pushed me into the next room , where i promptly dropped to my knees not caring about the dead body parts in the walls .
they couldnt hurt me .
a sob formed deep in my chest .
a chair sat in the middle of the floor .
an empty chair .
with frayed ropes around it .
was the prisoner dead ?
had they been arguing about how to get rid of the body ?
i remembered the crease on aimees forehead .
she would have more than a crease if someone had died .
maybe .
i smiled .
maybe the prisoner escaped .
that was why they went down the tunnels .
to search for the prisoner !
my body shivered as my wet clothes pressed against my skin .
i pulled out my phone and snapped a picture of the chair , the frayed ropes , and the cavernous room .
a sudden image popped into my mindas if ever since i saw the empty chair , my brain had been working in the background , humming , buzzing , searching for clues from the past week and a half .
i remembered the fear in moms eyes when she talked to me at the eiffel tower .
that felt like a century ago .
had she been hiding from jolie ?
maybe he knew about the package and the instructions to shoot him , so he grabbed mom and tortured her for information .
and thats why malcolm infiltrated spy games and my family .
because mom wasnt talking .
my fingers curled into a fist .
footsteps echoed from the tunnel .
his muffled voice called out to his partners in crime .
i needed to get the hell out and put the puzzle pieces together over a creamy latte and powdered donut , but i couldnt go back the same way .
i had no choice but to run through the tunnels and hope i didnt get lost .
without looking back , because i didnt want to slam into a wall , i sprinted through narrow tunnels and low ceilinged caverns .
i brushed against limestone walls and sloshed through squishy mud .
my legs moved with the fear of a whip wrapping around them at any second , or kissing my back .
i kept my eyes trained right in front me because i had no desire to see the faces , or the lack of faces , of the dead staring at me , telling me id never find a way out , that i was doomed to wander these catacombs and eventually join their skeleton crew .
i wasnt exactly in run through the catacombs shape .
every time i stopped to heave out a couple of breaths because the thick air seemed to suck it from me , i heard them .
muffled footsteps .
panicked french from more than one person .
they were after me .
i ran .
every footstep jarred my body .
the walls blurred .
sweat dripped into my eyes and stung .
what would they do to me ?
if they tortured me , i couldnt be as strong as mom .
id cave at the first sight of the pliers heading toward my teeth or at the first snap of the whip .
but if it was information on mom they wanted or her secrets , i wouldnt be able to tell them .
then theyd take it the next step and break all my fingers , one by one .
a sob rose up from my chest causing my throat to burn .
a pool of light shimmered up ahead .
escape !
i stumbled the last few steps to a circular set of stairs going up , up , and up .
my legs still ached from my climb up the tower in the notre dame .
these steps made those seem like chocolate cake .
never ending .
i pushed and pushed .
this was absolutely crazy .
why had i ever complained about posing as an art student at the louvre or dealing with wannabes like peyton ?
spy games was nothing compared to the real thing .
and i wasnt even a real spy , just a determined teenager .
almost at the top , voices echoed from below .
malcolm and jolie .
i stopped , my foot in midair .
with my hand cupped around my ear , i turned toward the voices .
cest reediculous !
jolie peppered malcolm with words .
they continued back and forth , their words coming out in surges as they made their way up the stairs .
i should go , but listening was too tempting .
i heard my name and extravaganza .
great .
talking about me again .
really .
im not that interesting .
jolie hmphed .
malcolm kept talking .
he said my name again , and i dug my fingers into the stone wall .
what else would he share about me ?
he didnt know that much .
he slipped into english .
you dont have to worry about her .
classic case of a girl abandoned by her mommy and trying to make up for it by pretending to be martha stewart .
i hid my gasp .
is that how he thought of me ?
malcolm continued .
she has some skill from working for her dad .
but overall .
he paused , probably to breathe .
she is not capable of infiltrating your organization .
jolies voice grew louder and more suspicious but he didnt switch over to english .
malcolm laughed out loud between wheezes .
it turned my insides .
malcolm was someone different for everyone .
for dad he was the loyal staff member , knowledgeable in all areas .
for me he was the flirty coworker and loyal friendor he acted like it .
for jolie ?
a hired spy .
did he care about me at all ?
as they kept talking , i stood straighter , trying to control my rage at malcolms cheap shots at me .
at his lies .
at his cowardice in not taking the high road but rather doing jolies dirty work .
the conversation dwindled , and malcolm asked in a threatening voice .
what would you like me to do with her ?
youve barely tapped into my skills since hiring me .
and then jolie spoke in english , loud and clear .
take care of her .
i gasped .
i know , its so cliche , but what did he mean ?
take care of her .
was that a death threat ?
forget peyton .
he was a little lost lamb grazing in a meadow filled with wild flowers .
a pompous jerk and a tad bit too emotional .
but he would never make death threats on innocent teen girls .
thats when i realized jolie and malcolm had stopped conversing about their evil plans of elimination .
no voices echoed up the stairwell .
finger by finger , i pulled my hand away from the wall .
slowly , i lifted my foot off the stair and backed up .
the stair shuddered .
i bit down on my lip until i tasted blood .
what if they exterminated me right then ?
stuck me in a freezer .
permanently ?
would malcolm do that ?
he said he wouldnt hurt me , but i couldnt take my chances .
when their steps pounded below , i dropped any pretense of a subtle get away .
i burst up the stairs like there was only one pastry left on the shelves .
up , up , and up .
legs burning and pain shooting through my chest .
at the top , my shoulder banged against a door as i fumbled with the knob .
i flew through the passage with no idea where id end up .
thirty three the hallway .
the dirty cobwebby hallway .
i sprinted down it and up the small set of stairs .
freedom was close .
i whipped open the door leading into les pouffants .
the maitre d stared at me from down his long , pointy nose .
angry french voices followed me , footsteps thumped .
i slammed the door shut .
i had to get out of there .
as in last week .
the manager grabbed my arm .
all the chefs turned and stared at me with their beady eyes .
their arms froze in position with frosting tubes in their hands .
i must look like a total catacomb zombie freak , covered in drying dust and grime .
they advanced toward me , so i did what any panicked girl caught spying on a famous french pastry chef would do .
i kicked the guy in the shins .
a girls toes are her best weapon !
he let out a howl and in the process let go of my arm .
i ran from kitchen , pushing waiters and chefs to my right and left .
zut alors !
and other french niceties got lost in the crashing of pans and dishes .
cakes splattered against the wall .
cream filled pastries smeared into perfectly manicured french mustaches .
i left them behind and sprinted out the front door .
young couples in love cast strange looks like i was a bit cuckoo .
and maybe i was .
arrte !
someone yelled behind me .
of course , i had no plans of stopping .
darkness shadowed the tables and the streets .
i ducked under the old fashioned looking lights with large bulbs strung across the outside of the shop .
i tried not to bump tables and knock over the vases holding roses as i weaved between them .
i fled the scene , wishing id run all those fivers and tenners dad had asked me to do .
my breath wheezed out like an old air conditioner on its last life .
i dodged and ducked tables and parisians out for a stroll .
the doorways of cute little boutiques blurred past me as i ran .
i leaped over miniature poodles .
i tried my hardest not to look behind me .
at this point , jolie with his santa belly wouldnt be the one chasing me .
malcolm would be .
even though wed kissed that didnt mean squat in his world .
he kept telling me he was spying on jolie for me , but every word out of his mouth down in the basement of jolies shop said otherwise .
he was too convincing for a waiter .
lies .
lies .
and more lies .
everything about him was a lie .
all the lies made me doubt anything hed told me .
would he ever hurt me ?
i wasnt sure anymore .
with every step , the muscles in my back sent shooting pain up my spine in anticipation of a hand about to clamp down on my neck .
but it never came .
at least half a mile away , i prayed id be safe , slowed down , and tried to hide behind a group of older woman out for a shopping trip .
at a crosswalk , i strode between two businessmen until i was safely on the other side .
i had to stop and rest .
my lungs burned , so i plopped down on a hard wooden bench .
malcolm was nowhere in sight .
i breathed a deep sigh of relief and let out a couple deep sobs .
id made it out .
jolie wasnt shoving me into his freezer .
if i was lucky , malcolm and jolie didnt even know who it was spying on them from the stairs .
i let my head fall back and stared up between the tree branches .
i stifled a laugh .
everything i hated about being a spy i had become .
i hated butting into other peoples business and living life like a trapeze artist , constantly afraid of falling and dying .
i hated lying to people as much as i hated being lied to .
i hated being sneaky .
except when i kinda liked it .
mom had never been honest with me .
like mother , like daughter .
i guess .
hands gripped my shoulder and i felt his breath against my ear before he whispered .
why hello there .
what happened to you ?
thirty four malcolm plopped onto the bench next to me and casually crossed his legs , his arms extending to the sides .
he played with the ends of my hair , twirling it between his fingers .
i choked and froze .
i couldve been a statue carved hundreds of years ago .
no .
seriously .
you look he took my appearance in , his eyes roving up and down my body .
the grimy face , my hair half dried and caked with dust , and my clothes still damp from my surprise shower and trip through the underworld of paris .
like youve been dragged through the mud .
literally .
i bit my bottom lip so the words building , screaming to get out , wouldnt .
i had questions i wanted to beat malcolm over the head with until i got answers .
questions about everything .
his alliance with jolie .
my mom .
whether he liked me or not .
i pressed that one deep down into my subconscious .
i didnt want the answer to it , because then id have to admit that my emotions had been manipulated .
while id pretended to be the ultra cool spy , hed been slipping through the backdoor , raiding the privacy of my heart .
he tugged at the strand of my hair , nudging me to answer .
i peeked sideways at the emotion radiating from his face , the caring look in his eyes , the way his head tilted to the side , his lips .
oh , those traitorous lips .
he acted like he cared , but underneath he was probably terrified i could expose him .
spies act cool , calm , and suave in any and all dangerous situations .
and this was a tricky one .
he had to know id been down in the catacombs , especially if hed followed the trail of water id probably left in my wake .
he wanted to know what i knew .
okay , ill try another one .
where did you disappear to yesterday ?
you never came out of the bathroom at the notre dame .
i had to sneak in and look for you .
and thats dangerous territory entering a girls bathroom .
the splinters of the splinters i used to call my heart could not break any smaller .
major girl problems .
i lied like a pro .
oh .
that shut him up .
always a good excuse .
why didnt you call ?
crap .
my phone was dead .
he pulled his arm back .
i dont believe you .
thats fine .
dont .
my arm twitched , and i had to grab onto it to stop myself from slugging him a good one .
how could he ask me these questions ?
we both knew the answers .
if youre feeling up for it , i found this great bookstore with an incredible caf next door .
the tarts have gotten top reviews .
youll love it .
he continued rambling on about this perfect date we should go on .
that night .
both my fingers clenched into fists .
my neck tightened .
the blood raced beneath my skin , roiling and boiling at this boys balls .
did he think i couldnt see through his act ?
that the date was his attempt to lure me into a trap , so they could squirrel me away somewhere , tied up to a chair with nothing to look at but the bones of the past ?
and then we could talk a bit more about spy games this weekend .
in two days , ill be a spy .
i might need some last minute tips .
will you just stop ?
the words came out louder than id meant , but i couldnt take it anymore .
i needed answers .
even if they werent what i wanted to hear .
he uncrossed his legs and jiggled them up and down .
im sorry .
you must be tired of talking about spy games .
its just its my first time , and im a little nervous .
i whipped around in my seat , my glare piercing through his act .
screw his act .
i wasnt a spy .
i didnt have to act like one .
stop .
i choked out .
i dont want to play this game anymore .
tell me about my mom .
do you have he put a finger to my lips .
shh .
dont touch me .
i jerked my head away .
okay .
you want to talk about something else .
fine .
lets talk .
why did you ask me out that first night ?
was it to spy on my family ?
my voice cracked and trembled , threatening to betray my real feelings .
but the words came pouring out , unbidden and free .
i grabbed his shirt and pulled him close .
thats fine if you were paid to spy on my family .
i dont get why because were a broken family from pennsylvania .
but you had no right to lead me on , to act like you cared , to become my friend , to kiss me .
and then i couldnt help it .
the fear and rage coursed through my limbs , spreading and gaining speed .
i punched him in the stomach .
he doubled over .
good one , he said in a strangled voice .
for a girl .
im not joking .
you cant make this go away with a joke and a laugh .
i punched him again .
in the arm , the chest , until my fist hurt .
he didnt fight back .
he took it , took in all my feelings of hurt and betrayal .
finally i slumped over and put my head in my hands , not wanting to look at him .
he stiffened .
fine , you want the truth now ?
i didnt answer , but waited , not looking , with my eyes closed , and my heart shielded .
i tried my hardest to keep you away from pouffant .
but you refused .
i tried to distract you and to warn you to stay away .
but you wouldnt .
you nosed around in things you know nothing about .
i know that now .
because if you knew the truth , the real secrets behind all this , you wouldnt be so careless and stupid .
i was stunned .
too stunned to form thoughts , never mind words .
his voice lowered .
im sorry if i confused you .
i thought your flirtations were part of the game .
you started it .
you got yourself into this .
his words slipped past the cracks in the shield around my heart , the place he always managed to infiltrate .
one question burned there .
i mightve started it , but did he care about me at all ?
and i didnt even care about any romantic feelings .
i mean was he my friend or not ?
because at this point the friendship part was hurting a lot more .
and then it was as if hed read my mind .
i dont want to hurt you .
but you need to know the truth .
this whole thing , you and me , flirting and having fun , has been a game , a charade , a distraction .
i played along .
i pretended to like you .
any shred of hope and dignity that once bloomed inside me , shriveled up and died .
he was right .
i was playing a game i knew nothing about and shouldve stayed away from .
i shouldve played my little role in spy games , believed aimees note about traveling , and not questioned anybody .
right .
i didnt think so either .
and this is my warning to you .
stay away .
and you might get away with your life .
his words left a trail of dread wrapping around my body .
stop asking questions .
stop pestering pouffant .
ill make up something to keep the big boys away from you .
im a good liar .
as you know .
those were his last words to me before he got up and strode briskly away .
i watched his back , his confident strut , like he was the master of this game .
he never looked back , not once .
i stayed on the bench and leaned back , looking up at the trees and the innocent leaves being tossed back and forth by the breeze .
my body felt depleted , empty of any emotion .
id been through the wringer .
in that one conversation id gone through fear , anger , hurt , betrayal , heartache , and back to anger .
when i looked back to the road , malcolm had disappeared into the crowd .
at home , i slipped in through my bedroom window , leaving a trail of dirt against the outside of the apartment .
but that was better than through the living room .
no lights were on , so i hoped dad was out on official spy games business .
the games were in two days , but i only cared about one thing .
a shower .
my grimy skin could just feel the pelting streams of hot water washing away the fears and memories of the past day , especially the skeleton memories .
i slipped out of my clothes and stuffed them into a bag to be incinerated .
the shower cleaned my body , but no matter how hot i ran the water , the fears remained , wedged in my mind .
one word pounded in my heart .
mom .
mom .
mom .
maybe she had good reasons for not being around .
like being held prisoner in the catacombs .
i prayed shed escaped from the clutches of the mad pastry chef .
i could barely think , never mind say his name .
with wrinkled skin and wearing comfy clothes , i flopped on my bed and drifted off .
at some point in between sleep and wake i jolted up in bed .
my room was pitch black .
someone was in the house .
thirty five shoes tapped on the kitchen floor .
i held my breath .
heat pricked my skin , needles running up and down my arms .
dad normally slams the door and talks to himself .
who was in our apartment ?
i slid out of bed , grabbed the heaviest book on my shelf , and stood to the side of my door .
my legs shook so hard i could barely stand .
drawers opened in the kitchen .
papers shuffled .
what did jolie or malcolm think we were hiding ?
could they really think we were spies ?
what a joke .
the floor creaked right outside my door .
he wasnt wasting any time .
the door opened .
slowly .
i raised the book above my head .
as soon as the door opened all the way , i screamed and whammed the book at the intruder .
savvy !
he said with a grunt and wrapped his arms around me .
except it didnt feel like malcolm .
or sound like him .
dad ?
he let go of me .
i scrambled away and flicked on the light .
savvy , what are you doing ?
i was trying to sleep .
and then i got mad .
like really mad .
i threw the book on the floor , threw my hip out and crossed my arms .
if someone usually slams the door and grumbles on entering , then he should always slam the door and grumble .
his eyebrows went up .
whats wrong ?
why are you creeping around the apartment like youre a burglar or something ?
i didnt want to wake you in case you were sleeping .
oh .
i uncrossed my arms and let them hang at my sides .
sorry .
im a little tired .
only because ive been training people for spy games .
and trying to stay alive .
come on into the living room .
we need to talk .
i stumbled over to the couch , desperately trying to squash the desire to tell dad that these could be his last moments with his one and only daughter .
but he always found a way to make my confessions seem foolish .
i sat on the edge of the couch and pulled a frayed pillow into my lap .
i wanted to rewind time , before my parents started arguing almost every night .
that summer wed made fires out in the fire pit and roasted marshmallows .
wed talked , laughed , done family like things .
dad rubbed his temples .
finally , he looked at me but still couldnt find my eyes .
its about spy games .
the lines around his eyes were deeper and he seemed to have the weight of the world on his shoulders as he hunched over .
he sighed and waited almost a minute before speaking .
i pulled about fifty threads out of the pillow .
after tomorrow , i give you my official blessing to leave spy games .
i promise ill stop trying to live my dreams through you .
ill stop talking about west point , and ill stop forcing you to pretend youre a spy .
dad ... .
i didnt know what to say .
was i that much of a failure that he didnt want me on spy games anymore ?
id screwed up at the louvre , but id make up for that .
hed see .
and one more thing .
he squirmed like a child whos stolen a cookie from the cookie jar .
ive been lying to you .
what ?
i stared at him .
dads dont lie .
they always tell the truth and set the example .
right ?
i know how to communicate with your mother .
i havent , but i know how .
he pulled at the threads of a frayed pillow too .
tears stung my eyes .
he knew ?
but , but .
.
.
i couldnt finish .
ive been selfish and didnt want to share you , especially after she left without offering you a choice .
of course , i love having you here , but if youd rather be with your mom , i can work it out .
i havent been much of a dad lately .
you could be back in the states next month or earlier .
oh , okay .
my chest deflated .
how could i possibly tell him that mom probably wouldnt answer the phone ?
that she might never see daylight again ?
i couldnt .
not without telling him about my recent spy missions .
and then just like that , he turned and left .
there it was .
proof .
id messed up big time with dad .
i trudged back to my room and curled up into a ball in my closet near the box of special mementos .
standing in open view in front of windows didnt seem very wise given the circumstances .
i flipped through the box of gadgets , thinking back on how my life had changed in two weeks .
my emotions veered back and forth between rage at malcolm for tricking me and extreme fear for my mom .
the door creaked open .
savvy ?
what ?
i crawled out of the closet and sat on my bed .
dad studied me .
i mean really looked at me .
he opened his mouth several times before spitting out what was on his mind .
do you want to stay here ?
with me ?
tears burned .
dad had been the one to stay , to provide , to burn the mac and cheese for me .
he wasnt perfect , but he cared .
yes , i said , my heart blooming and filling some of the hollow spaces in my chest .
his whole body seemed to lighten and the wrinkles smoothed out .
the smile on his face radiated and was like salve on my heart .
he wanted me !
terrific .
but ill still try and communicate with your mom .
why did she leave ?
i blurted out , testing him .
those are questions only your mother can answer .
he stepped closer .
i know its hard , without her around .
he sat on the bed and put his hand on my shoulder .
but youre strong .
if you can survive my cooking , you can survive anything .
youre a fighter .
dont forget that .
he kissed my forehead , then he left with a fresh spring in his step .
wow .
i was on dad daughter bonding overload .
he believed in me .
even though id screwed up , numerous times , more times than he even knew , he believed in me .
the anger and fear faded and morphed into something new and different .
determination .
then i saw the hat .
the spy hat .
the wonderful , glorious black hat dad gave me as a gift .
laughter bubbled up from some creepy twisted place inside of me because i shouldnt be finding a spy hat the least bit humorous .
i crouched down on the floor and ran my fingers across the folded edge .
it wasnt so bad .
at least it wasnt zebra striped .
right ?
and then there was the box of spy gadgets from bugs to audio recording devices to code breaking books .
but many more lay in the box , screaming out the same message .
they almost vibrated .
i ran my fingers over them , and the pulse shocked my fingertips and spread like wildfire up through my arms .
a switch in my brain flicked on .
id been doing it .
all along , ever since the fateful night that id made the decision to tie up malcolm , id been doing what i swore id never do .
i thrived on danger .
i took risks .
i wore disguises and listened in on conversations .
oh .
my .
holy .
spy .
pants .
what did i ever have against spying anyway ?
i moved to the edge of the bed , my body tense , racking my brain on how to rescue my mom and make things right .
the extravaganza was this saturday , the same exact time as spy games .
i couldnt be in two places at once .
i needed to be at the extravaganza .
id probably never know what mom was supposed to do there , not if shed been taken hostage .
but i had to go .
the answer came quickly in the form of the person id offended the worst .
peyton .
id ask him to help me in spy games to make up for my mistakes .
id been playing the game wrong , boldly stepping into this chaotic mess like i had a right , like i was immune to getting hurt .
i needed to play a different game , one that didnt include clumsily spying on people and breaking and entering houses .
i needed to stop thinking of being a spy as james bond and 007 and all that .
spies could be normal people .
like me .
innocent people who drew on their strengths of normalness .
i needed to embrace my allies instead of leaning on my enemies .
for the first time in a long time , the cobwebs in my mind cleared , and i felt purpose .
i could find some answers and free my mom .
at the same time , i could make up for my mistakes by taking action and making dad proud .
step one in operation save prisoner ?
training .
thirty six i had one day to train and be ready for spy games .
i grit my teeth to pull out another ten sit ups .
when that was done and my stomach muscles allowed me to move again , i hopped to my feet .
i stood outside in the tiny front yard , hoping our neighbors in the apartment building wouldnt peek out their windows .
i jumped back and forth and shook out my arms like a boxer would before a match .
i might not have done my job before , but i would do it now .
do fifty more push ups and twenty lunges , my internal trainer shouted .
i did them .
harder .
dont quit .
dont slow down .
i didnt .
the chill in the air encouraged me to move .
after completing a series of karate kicks and floor drops and ninja turnsthat i totally made upi did them again .
and again .
thirty minutes later , after rolling in the grass , kicking like the karate kid , and leaping like a ballerina , i dropped into the grass and groaned .
sweat soaked my shirt and dripped off the sides of my face .
holy cow !
i couldnt keep training like this or i wouldnt be able to walk to the extravaganza finals the next day .
i hobbled back to my room and dragged the box out of my closet .
the guilt that hung over this box could finally leave because for the first time , it would get put to good use .
dad gave me this when we arrived in paris as a welcoming gift .
it was one of the many things hed done to get me excited about his spy venture , but i dont think id ever looked through the whole thing .
i dug down for the book on breaking codes .
at the bottom of the box , i found a silver case .
id never seen this .
i opened it and my mouth dropped open .
a switchblade ?
with shaky fingers , i flicked it and a sharp knife popped out .
holy freaking hell .
um , yeah .
i closed it back in the case and shoved it to the bottom of the box .
then i found the book .
after racing back to the kitchen the best i could on my sore legs , i slapped down a page of basic code breaking .
code breaking 101 .
you have five minutes .
i attacked each one like i was going for olympic gold , scribbling furiously , a smile spreading across my face .
if only dad could see me .
when the time was up , i sat back with satisfaction .
the days of starting off a training day at les pouffants were over .
what would aimee think ?
shed laugh and say , about time .
i closed my eyes and pictured aimees infectious smile , the one that used to greet me every morning .
wed chat and joke about spy games .
truth was i missed her .
an hour later , with a black scarf wrapped around my neck and wearing dark , inconspicuous clothing , i studied peytons apartment building .
it felt like years ago that malcolm and i crouched in the bushes waiting for the right moment to break in , using my oh so sly methods .
i kinda missed those days when malcolm and i would flirt and do spy stuff together instead of against each other .
and that was only a couple of weeks ago .
when id called peyton , his phone number had been disconnected .
i contemplated how he might react to my surprise visit .
he could call the police .
he could tie me up and stuff me into a closet .
or he might just take my offer and help out during spy games .
my way of an apology on the path to becoming a better spy games staffer and daughter .
only one way to find out .
each step across the street and into his apartment building caused a crack in my confidence .
this guy hated me .
in front of his door , instead of slicing the pie or nonsense like that , i knocked .
and waited .
and waited .
and waited .
i knocked again .
the idea of breaking in tempted me .
i mean i hadnt turned my back on spying , just on my laziness when it came to working for dad .
i knocked once more .
and the door opened a crack .
hmm .
this wouldnt be breaking in , just popping in for a friendly spy games hello .
especially if i tripped and my toes nudged the door open all the way and i just kinda fell into the apartment .
oops !
i fell forward .
how clumsy of me .
but it didnt matter .
the apartment was empty of everything but the furniture .
empty .
as in no signs of people living there .
no trash .
no half empty coffee cups .
no loaf of bread on the counter .
i scoured the apartment .
the nose strips were gone .
the books , the maps , everything .
it was like peyton never lived here .
bummer .
but id tried .
i shrugged it off and went home to gear up for the next day .
after a restless nights sleep , the morning of the extravaganza and operation save prisoner dawned .
in the back of my closet i found a pair of black leather pants id packed for the paris nightlife .
i pinned the flower audio recorder to my shirt .
then i pulled out the switchblade and tucked it into my sock .
just in case .
i was a spy .
but not the cold hearted , sneaky kind who worked for profit .
id be different .
the kind of spy who saved people .
the kind who solved problems and rooted out the bad guys because they were bad , not because of how much i got paid .
id be a daughter and rescue my mom .
and id make my dad proud .
id run my first tenner in five months even if it killed me .
and then , id be ... a spy like me .
at nine a.m. on the dot , i creaked open the door to the warehouse .
on time .
gray chalston wasnt even here yet .
dad studied his notes .
i stared at him in awe .
his hair was perfectly styled , not for vanity , but so it wouldnt fall in his eyes while in the field .
maybe it was the only way to control his hair or maybe no one ever told him he used a bit too much gel .
nancy and malcolm entered from the side , with frankie on their heels .
dad nodded at them as they took their spots around the table .
for some reason , i couldnt make myself walk forward .
i couldnt move from watching them through the crack in the door .
i mean how hard was this ?
id been doing it for months .
but that was when i didnt care .
i wiped my sweaty palms on my pants , and sudden panic hit me .
maybe i shouldnt have worn these pants .
they did make my butt look a little big .
and the hat was totally dorky .
what was i thinking ?
call me delusional .
theyd probably take one look at me and laugh .
i shouldve got here before anyone else arrived .
too late .
i watched as nancy chatted gaily with malcolm .
they laughed like old friends .
god , he was cute .
and a flirt .
hed once turned that killer smile on me , and where had that gotten me ?
nowhere good .
hed tangled up my heartstrings , made me care .
they all cast nervous glances at each other .
waiting for me .
dad pulled a clump of gel from the side of his hair , stalling , probably waiting for me to disappoint him .
it was time .
i clutched my throat .
was it closing up ?
i stepped back from the door and took several shallow breaths .
cool air breezed across my face and hair sending goosebumps down my arms .
i thought about aimee .
mom .
and dad .
all his hopes and dreams in me .
deep breaths .
they needed me .
i could do this .
i could find and rescue my mom .
after one more giant breath , i grabbed the door and opened it again .
malcolm ran right into me .
thirty seven what are you doing out here ?
malcolm asked .
nothing .
why didnt i memorize some cool spy lingo ?
with a flip of my hair , i faced him , channeling the coolness factor of an iceberg .
his eyes widened and traveled up and down my body .
i glared at him , trying to hide my reaction .
he backed up .
i brushed past him and strode across the warehouse toward the others , shoulders back , head up , chest out .
my black boots clomped on the cement .
my spy hat slipped , and i pushed it back into place .
dad opened his mouth but no words came .
a noticeable gleam filled his eyes .
welcome , savvy .
he finally managed to say .
minutes later , i was clicking into my cables and tightening the ropes .
the metal rafter was firm beneath my feet , and i simply refused to look down .
my legs still felt rubbery from my three mile run , which had dwindled into a jog up and down the street .
start small .
that was key .
gray nodded in approval .
after his introduction speech , dad boomed out the names of the staff .
frankie dropped down first then nancy until it was gray , malcolm , and me .
my eyes flicked over to malcolms .
i couldnt read his expression .
his steely gray eyes caught mine and held them for a few seconds .
gray interrupted .
malcolm , your turn .
he flew down to the cement floor in his hot spy glamour , much to the awe of the clients .
gray nodded .
my turn .
dads voice boomed , and heres savvy !
without a thought , i jumped , my arm straight out , my head held high .
the wind rippled through my shirt and my eyes teared up .
i clenched the ropes until my feet landed on the cement .
i think i even got a few gasps myself .
damn .
soon , jolie pouffant would regret the day he messed with savvy bent .
i breezed through my informant job at the eiffel tower .
i handed out clues with confidence .
i stayed focused .
this round was not about a hostage .
one of the clients was a mole , a double agent , and the rest of the clients had to find the stolen da vinci , while digging for the mole .
extra points for the team who could name the double agent .
i could .
malcolm .
but that only counted in my book , and i wouldnt be receiving any prizes .
with a sigh , i realized my job was done , but my real work had yet to begin .
i texted dad to let him know i had monthly girl issues but would make it to the final debriefing .
when i arrived at the extravaganza , i stood on the side street .
the small groups of musicians played music and whisked me back to the 1800s .
mimes with their sad faces acted out their dramas .
sellers cried out and promoted their homemade goodies .
the smell of apples and cinnamon floated in the air .
it all brought me back to the first extravaganza , where id hoped to find aimee but learned malcolm was a double agent , where id met jolie and learned he was a nefarious pastry chef .
and then , where i shot the guy with a tranquilizer dart .
today would be different .
today id save my mom .
i wandered past the tables , searching for a table with the number 14 .
magnificent entries surrounded me .
les pouffants was on my right , closed for the day .
a sense of unease sapped my confidence .
nothing ever went right for me in that shop , and me and pastry shops were usually best buds .
i found my table at the far edge of the blocked off street , but when i saw it , my fists curled into balls at my side .
while id finished up my work for spy games , jolies minions had destroyed my entry .
it looked like something from a tim burton movie .
and not in an artistic way .
gold , silver , and red frosting bled across the white paper tablecloth .
the wires that held the cupcakes were twisted and deformed with sharp edges sticking out .
even the cupcakes with a creamy fillings had been slashed , their guts spilled .
from what i could tell it had been a masterpiece of little cakes placed in the formation of the eiffel tower .
emotions whipped through me like the wind , tearing at my insides .
shock .
surprise .
sadness .
anger .
but the one that stayed with me , lodged in my throat , was fear .
if jolie had no problem destroying something he lovedpastrieswhat would he do with me ?
i cracked my knuckles .
the fun and games were over .
time for stage one .
infiltration .
problem .
a security guard blocked the door to jolies bakery .
well , he probably was a security guard , dressed in dark colors and wearing sunglasses .
i needed a distraction .
with my large purse on my shoulder , i smeared frosting from the ruined eiffel tower la cupcake onto my arms and a dab on my nose so id look like one of jolies pastry minions .
i ran along the perimeter of the extravaganza then rushed up to the door of the bakery and jerked the knob back and forth .
the guard approached , liked i hoped he would .
arrte !
his voice was sharp and commanding .
i motioned to the frosting , mentioned jolies name , and pointed into the bakery .
the guard narrowed his eyes .
i contorted my features into something i hoped looked like panic , which didnt take much effort .
he nodded and strode off .
i pulled out the gadget that unlocked doors , stuck it into the keyhole , and wiggled it around .
nothing .
i glanced over at jolies table .
the guard was just reaching him .
damn .
i wiggled harder , but nothing happened .
i changed hands and kept trying to force it to work .
snap !
the gadget broke .
id have to talk to dad about investing in higher quality devices , if he was really serious about this whole spy thing .
using my purse , i was about to punch a hole through the door when a shadow blocked the sun and a chill whispered across the back of my neck .
i froze .
rough hands gripped my arm and whipped me around .
jolie .
um , bonjour ?
thirty eight jolie didnt even crack a smile .
instead , he unlocked the door and pushed me into the bakery .
okay , not quite the way id envisioned this happening .
he gave me a final push , and i broke my forward momentum by slamming my hands against his front counter .
i kept my back to him .
a torrent of french filled the shop .
normally , i love the french language but not today .
he continued to yell , his words falling on me like pieces of glass .
technically , i was the more innocent of the two of us .
then he switched to english .
how dare you ?
he roared .
i tried to convince my partner you were not an innocent victim in all this .
you are a conniving spoiled brat .
dont hold back , i shot out .
he waved his hands in disgust .
i would never let my granddaughter talk like that .
and i never would have worked with your papa if i flipped around .
worked with my dad ?
what are you talking about ?
that made no sense .
no way would dad work with a homicidal pastry chef .
he asked me to be a part of his spy games .
quite ironic , dont you think ?
the knowing smile on jolies face reflected the truth .
he knew i knew about him , and he didnt care .
i fiddled with the flower pin on my shirt , a gift from dad , pressing the record button .
yes , quite , considering youre the spy , i said .
he laughed , a deep belly laugh .
my anger went from simmering to rolling waves .
it wont be funny when youre convicted and put in jail .
tears streamed from his eyes .
little girl .
you know nothing .
i know a lot , i shouted .
i know you hired malcolm to take aimees place so you could spy on my family .
ha !
the word burst from his mouth like a gunshot .
oh , you have brought me so much entertainment these past weeks i do not know whether to get rid of you or to hire you onto my staff .
i am not some sort of joke .
this is serious .
i stopped myself before blurting out that i was here to rescue mom .
he wiped his eyes .
eh .
when the night wed planned for your kidnapping went up in smoke , i made other plans .
i dont believe you .
i racked my brain and couldnt think of any near kidnappings .
no men in dark clothing .
nobody offering me candy .
nothing .
let me explain .
he took a bow .
and they call americans obnoxious .
malcolm was a plant .
duh .
okay that sounded totally childish .
i know he took aimees spot to get to me .
wrong !
he burst out again , laughing .
he was a plant at les pouffants .
he was never a struggling waiter in need of cash .
he asked you out on a date and romanced you because i paid him to .
right then and there i became a piece of pastry dough , punched and slammed around until there was no air left in me .
i had my suspicions , but to hear it stated out loud made it real .
too real .
why so pale ?
malcolm is way out of your league my dear .
forget him .
he will bring you nothing but heartache .
but why ?
hed tried to kidnap me before i even had any thought about entering the pastry contest ?
im a nobody .
he nodded .
true .
but i needed to make sure .
do not worry you passed the test .
i stepped closer to him .
you needed to make sure about what ?
that is classified .
he made the motion like he was zipping his lips .
my anger went from rolling waves past boiling to the cracking stage .
youre not the only ones with secrets , santa claus .
please , enlighten me .
i know things about you too .
i know about your precious aimee .
and i know your secret in the basement .
jolie stopped blabbing , his words dried up .
slowly , a change came over him .
his mustache twitched and he ran the back of his hand across the bottom of his beard .
his nostrils flared and his face turned the color of a brilliant sunset .
his chest heaved in and out , and he stepped closer , pushing his face in mine .
how do you know about that ?
his breath smelled like peppermint and sugar .
it felt really good to have pulled something over on him .
sorry .
im not at liberty to say .
what ?
he blasted out .
my body trembled under his roar .
i straightened my back and stood firm .
no fear .
lifes not so funny when youre the one being fooled , is it ?
he growled and pushed me away in disgust .
honestly , if aimee knew what a big bully you really are , shed probably never talk to you again .
so , why dont you hand my mom over to me , and ill leave .
and you can forget all about me .
a devious smile pranced across his face .
i know nothing of your mother .
i looked out the window and gasped .
zut alors !
quick as lightning jolie fell for the oldest trick in the book and whipped his head around to see what happened .
i reached into my large purse and grabbed my taser .
with one quick thrust i aimed for his big belly .
but he wasnt as stupid as he looked .
he caught my wrist inches from his belly .
his grip tightened on my arm until i groaned in pain .
you want to play with the big boys ?
non ?
then i will treat you like one .
he twisted my wrist around and jammed the end of the taser into my side .
bolts of electricity entered my body , zaps of pain shot through my limbs .
i felt numb .
i hit the floor with no chance of blocking my fall .
drool wet the side of my cheek .
jolies evil cackle filled the air and settled deep into my soul .
my body twitched .
he grabbed my wrists and dragged me across the floor .
i mumbled out words of protest .
my head lolled back and we passed the glass case with fresh pastries and entered the kitchen .
a door creaked open , and he brought his face close to mine .
the smell of peppermint washed over me .
you cant fool me .
i know your family has been watching mine .
first your mother , then you , and finally your father drawing me into his spy games .
i will take your family out before they can finish me off .
with that , he gave me a push down the stairs .
thirty nine i screamed as wood jabbed , poked , and whammed into every part of my body all the way down the steps .
finally the world stopped spinning , and i lay on the floor .
throbbing pain racked my body .
the dull glow from a flickering light on the ceiling blurred in out of view .
i focused .
cracks ran down the plastered walls and grit was on the floor .
jolies last words were burned into my mind .
my family wanted to take him out ?
huh ?
the door was shut and probably locked at the top of the stairs .
pouffant actually did me a favor because just a short jaunt down the passageway and id be at the catacombs .
but hed be back with his minions .
he wouldnt leave me alone with access to his underground tunnels filled with his secrets .
i had to save mom and then keep running and exit through jolies house .
i think i could find it again .
i hoped .
with a groan , i stood up .
the room spun , and i waited for my vision to clear .
my fingers traced a path through the grime on the walls as i headed toward the door in the back .
creepy crawlies ran up and down my spine the closer i got .
i turned the knob and stared down into the never ending darkness .
i pulled a flashlight from my pack and made my way down .
the steps passed under my feet quickly , winding down and around until i reached the bottom .
flashing the light ahead of me , i ran through the tunnels , ignoring the cobwebs and bones .
i tried to remember the path i took the last time , but all the walls and tunnels looked the same .
with each turn , fear of failure weighed on my shoulders , heavier than the thick air pressing in on me .
as the tunnels twisted and turned , i realized there were no forks or turns .
it was a straight shot .
i sprinted hobbled harder until i burst into a cavernous room .
mom !
i called as loud as i dared .
if my life were a reality tv show , glitter and confetti would drop from the sky and the crowds would cheer .
with arms open wide , a cheesy grin on my face , i dreamed of running into her arms .
wed escape into the sunshine , maybe stop at a caf and sip a few lattes .
i think i even smelled whipped cream and a bit of hazelnut .
but i didnt find mom .
i came to a halt and stared in shock .
a man sat slumped over in the chair , snoring gently .
fresh ropes bound his ankles and hands .
dirty clothes hung off his body .
the pants were tan , maybe ?
i tiptoed closer , afraid to wake him but knowing i needed to .
why this man ?
i expected mom .
did this mean mom was out free and clear ?
or did they have her tied up in a separate cavern .
the mystery doubled .
he murmured in his sleep , but i couldnt understand him .
after a glance back toward the darkened tunnel , i gently shook the mans shoulder .
once , and then again .
finally he lifted his head and tried to focus on me .
his eyes were so dark brown the whites appeared very white .
his face was pale from a lack of sun , and his hair fell to his ears in an uncombed mess .
underneath the dirt and grime , he probably wasnt too much older than me .
you , he whispered .
i took a step back .
me ?
i got down on my knees .
you know me ?
its you .
youre real .
he had a heavy accent i didnt recognize , but he spoke perfect english .
he tried to move his arms , and his face flashed with pain .
what was i thinking ?
let me untie you .
im so sorry .
i moved to his back and pulled out the knife tucked into my sock and under my pant leg .
with one slice , his hands were free and then his feet .
he rubbed his wrists and then reached out to me .
he ran his fingers down my hair .
long and black .
i knew it .
i let him touch me because clearly he wasnt in his right mind .
you dont know me , sir .
compassion surged through me .
the last time i was here .
the empty chair .
he must be the prisoner whod escaped .
obviously , he hadnt made it .
he probably hadnt eaten a proper meal in forever .
i dont know how long youve been here but we need to go .
i tried to help him up .
i know a way out .
i cant believe its you .
he stared off , and the start of a smile tugged at his mouth .
his eyes grew moist , but he shook it off .
no .
i need to talk to you .
his eyes cleared and he glanced down the tunnels .
they will come .
im not strong enough to escape .
but you are .
and you must .
ive been waiting , staying alive , for you .
crap .
the guy was having delusions from dehydration .
i pulled out a water bottle and held it up to his lips .
drink .
i tipped the bottle .
then youll see .
the water spilled down his throat and the sides of his mouth , making dark prints in the floor of the cavern .
he choked and pulled away .
thank you .
thank you .
youve been too kind .
thats enough .
you need to listen .
he slipped into a different language .
i gently gripped his arm to help him stand and lead him away .
our time was running out , and i couldnt just leave him here .
come on , lets go .
he pulled away and spoke in english again .
no .
you must know !
his eyes held a hint of desperation and he grabbed my arms with newfound strength .
ive been hiding the truth .
i left my brethren .
i risked everything .
to find you .
to tell you .
to save your life .
clearly this guy wasnt going stop .
fine .
tell me .
but make it quick .
we have angry french pastry dudes coming after us .
that is not important .
you have more dangerous enemies than jolie .
his voice grew scratchy , probably from lack of talking during his captivity .
more water ?
i offered the bottle again .
no .
no .
not now .
a few years ago i had visions .
i kept them to myself and did nothing because they made no sense .
i saw firegreat flamesleaping toward the ceiling .
for many nights , i stood at the edge of the vision and felt a rush of warm wind .
i thought the wind was from the fire .
but then the vision changed , and a set of large wings were above the fire , fanning the flames , making them hotter , brighter , and bigger .
and you were there .
okay , listen .
this guy seemed nice and all but being a hostage had affected his mind .
i think the air down here has gotten to you .
was that muffled footsteps i heard ?
theyre coming .
we have to go .
now !
no !
i must tell you !
his voice rose to a frantic pitch .
i tried to tell the brethren about my visions , that you needed help .
but they laughed me off .
now i know youve got the wrong girl .
im here to save you , not the other way around .
this guy had completely lost his marbles .
at first i thought it wasnt important either .
as time went on , his voice dropped low and he glanced around , the vision changed again .
this time , the fire faded .
all that was left were the charred bones of the dead .
you were gone .
i tried to lead him out of the room but this guy was much stronger than he looked .
he gripped my arm and pulled me close so i felt his breath on my face .
his voice came out raspy .
i made the mistake of telling the brethren about the new vision .
this time they took my words very seriously .
when i left , they followed me .
they know that your family has been part of a centuries old struggle that has led to bloodshed .
they will come after you .
he coughed and drew a ragged breath , then continued , they let me leave , because they knew my visions were from a higher power .
i am meant to save you , so i am forever at odds with my brethren .
a voice rang through the cavern , sounding like a gunshot .
aha !
and you thought you could get away ?
forty both the prisoner and i turned .
jolies hired gun , the maitre d , stood in the doorway .
he leaned against the wall , chest heaving , sweat dripping like hed just taken a shower .
you girl , have become too much trouble , he growled .
and your boyfriend doesnt seem to be able to get the job done .
the prisoner pulled me behind him .
the smell of body odor drifted off him , but i didnt care .
the rough texture of his shirt hit my cheek , and it clicked .
the photo on malcolms laptop flashed back to me .
it was him .
could this guy be telling the truth ?
he sounded completely off his rocker .
you can not save her !
the maitre d stated with confident conviction .
and you can not save yourself either .
you have been too much trouble for the master .
you both have run out of time !
the barrel of a revolver faced us along with the menacing glare of a butler with an anger management problem .
time seemed to freeze .
the butler went on , but i blocked him out .
i couldnt believe this was happening .
not to me , nice savvy bent .
the girl who never picked a fight , and who almost always followed directions .
spying for the good of others was one thing , but staring death in the face snapped something inside me .
my fingers curled even tighter around the knife still in my hand , and i switched it open .
the prisoner whispered out of the side of his mouth , ill distract him .
you run .
my legs twitched with the desire to follow his directions , to turn and flee up the stairs .
to run away , search for mom , or to go get dad .
then i could go into therapy and hypnosis and brainwash the memories away .
but no .
not this time .
no more running from the truth .
my truth .
the butler waved the gun at the prisoner .
back on the chair .
i gripped his shirt , not letting him go .
the knife felt red hot in my hand , a burning that needed to be released .
i switched the knife to my right hand .
with my left arm , i shoved the prisoner to the side .
the butlers piercing black eyes caught mine , and he grinned .
i whipped my arm over my head and let the knife fly .
it soared toward its mark at the same time the revolver went off .
instinctively , i screamed , dropped to the ground , and curled into a ball , waiting for a burst of pain .
but i felt nothing .
thankfully the butler was probably better at serving pastries than shooting a gun .
someone groaned .
i crawled over to the prisoner , fearing for his life .
i patted his legs and up to his torso , then saw the dark red stain spreading through his shirt .
hed been shot in the side .
oh my god .
oh my god .
i smoothed his hair away from his face .
his chocolate eyes were kind , but reflected pain as he turned them on me .
my time has come .
i need to finish .
almost done .
his breathing became quick and labored .
no !
i pulled out my band aids and fumbled with the wrapper .
something had to help .
this man did this for me , or so hed said .
even if he was crazy and had lost it , i couldnt let him die for me .
no one had done that before .
i just wasnt that important .
someone groaned again , but not the prisoner .
the butler was curled into a fetal position .
the knife stuck out of his side , and blood seeped through his fingers .
my body prickled with the heat of guilt and the dread that followed .
what had i done ?
is , is he doing to die ?
i stammered , clutching the prisoners arm , forgetting the band aids .
spying on someone was one thing , but killing a man ?
that was completely different .
i didnt want murder on my resum .
that doesnt matter .
listen .
all i could see was the red stain , spreading , growing .
i dont know what happened , i started babbling and couldnt stop .
something just came over me when i saw the gun pointed at us .
im not the kind of the girl who stabs men in catacombs or anywhere for that matter .
the most violent thing ive done is to kill ants , but you shouldve seen them overrunning our kitchen , swarming over the leftover candy canes .
yes , it was probably my fault .
finally , i ran out of words and grabbed his hand .
i traced the chapped , worn skin trying to give him warmth , to let him know i cared .
i looked into his eyes .
they were still full of compassion .
he wasnt judging , just waiting .
his body relaxed as his words poured forth , and peace spread across his face .
he mumbled about finding my mom , arriving in paris , and then jolie finding him .
finally he stopped , but his face was pale .
i didnt say anything .
i was wrapped in his words , hoping , wishing he knew where to find my mom .
he choked and blood dribbled out the side of his mouth .
i pressed harder against his shirt to stop the bleeding .
jolie thought i knew about your family .
he kept asking .
i didnt say a word .
he could only manage short sentences .
not a good sign .
one night .
i knew .
the place .
the fire .
and i saw you caught in a bloody tug a war .
i need to tell you .
you must a high pitched scream interrupted his story .
and it wasnt mine .
forty one aimee had entered , headlamp on , carrying a tray of food .
you !
she shouted .
you !
i echoed back .
we fell silent , staring , barely acknowledging the secrets that had torn us apart .
her frizzy blonde hair was pulled back in a ponytail .
she placed the tray on the floor .
my shock grew .
i had absolutely no clue what was going on .
my fingers curled into tight balls and anger shot through me like lightning .
it felt like years had passed since id seen her .
id been shot at , id sneaked and spied , and id been cooped up in a hen house .
youve been feeding him ?
i whispered .
i wanted to say so much more as the questions piled up .
oui .
aimee grabbed the napkins .
she ripped the mans shirt and pressed the napkins to his wounds .
what happened ?
she asked sharply , but then she gasped at jolies man lying on the floor and the revolver several feet away .
my voice wavered .
i hoped my mom was down here .
but i found him .
has he been talking ?
yes .
but i think hes lost it .
aimee didnt say anything as she worked quietly , cleaning up the mans wound the best she could .
her forehead creased in thought , like she had a lot to say to me .
rage built on days of worry simmered underneath my thinning veil of patience .
would she tell me the truth ?
my voice turned sharp and prickly .
where the hell have you been ?
her movements became fast and jerky , but she still did not answer .
oh , but i had lots to say .
i thought you were gone !
missing !
kidnapped by that lunatic peyton !
i didnt believe your note for one second and did everything i could to find you .
all i needed was proof , a real note , a goodbye , face to face .
was that too much to ask ?
she wrapped the mans wounds with precision , her lips pressed tight together .
answer me !
my voice rang out loud and clear .
i pushed her shoulder , angry , trying to get her to say something .
anything .
or are you fabricating your story , your lies , just like your grandfather , the great jolie pouffant ?
maybe you can tie me up , too .
heck , why stop there ?
go after my dad and mom too .
enough !
aimee dropped everything and rushed at me .
her arms wrapped around my middle and she pushed .
i landed flat on my back , and the air whooshed out of my chest .
i reached up , wrapped my fingers around her ponytail , and yanked her off .
we struggled , pushing and shoving , rolling in the dirt .
my face pressed into the floor .
i managed to flip around and twist her arm behind her back .
she wiggled out and we locked arms , unable to move each other .
finally , we let go and flopped down side by side , spent , and breathing like racehorses .
why ?
i asked , desperate to understand the lies that surrounded me and pressed against me and freaked me out even more than the bones and skulls in the walls .
why had aimee pretended not to know jolie pouffant ?
why wouldnt she tell me ?
why did she take off ?
and if jolie was a criminal what did aimee know about it ?
i had my reasons .
her voice sounded close to breaking .
tears might have streaked my dirty cheeks but i didnt pay any mind .
i thought you were gone .
i thought you were in trouble .
i lied to my dad and broke rules so i could find you .
you were my friend .
and you lied .
the whole time .
i know about you and jolie .
i know .
she couldnt look at me .
guilt was etched across her face .
the prisoner spoke softly , his calm words filling the air like the glow of a burning candle .
tell her .
everything .
aimee pushed up but wouldnt look at me .
there is no time .
she grasped his hands .
you must see a doctor .
we wasted enough time already .
tell her .
he closed his eyes , his chest barely rising and falling .
tell me what ?
my words sounded like an accusation .
i stood to my feet , ready for round two .
do you know where my mom is ?
did your crazy grandfather lock her up too ?
aimee shook her head sadly .
if my grandfather had anything to do with your mother , i know nothing .
her voice grew desperate .
but he is in trouble .
i snorted .
like i care .
she rubbed the prisoners hand but her words were for me .
i do not expect you to care for my grandfather .
but it has to do with you , too .
my body sagged , and the last bit of anger trickled out .
i didnt know how much more truth i could take .
im listening , i said , broken but dreading what was coming next .
months ago , my grandfather started acting jumpy and nervous .
he said it was nothing , but i poked around and listened to his phone calls .
she stopped and her head dropped to her chest .
tears splattered against her chest .
go on , i said , my anger slowly dissipated .
what was our connection ?
the prisoner squeezed her hand and reached for mine .
her voice was a whisper .
i think someone was threatening his life .
i was afraid he would die .
soon .
my frustration rose .
what does this have to do with me ?
and my mom ?
my grandfather thought your mom had something to with it .
that she was here to take his life , because she was watching him .
but then she disappeared , and you and your dad arrived .
i joined spy games to spy on you and your family .
i thought your dad might pick up where your mom left off .
i choked on my argument .
i thought about the camera and all the money someone had sent my mom .
was she an assassin ?
so why leave without saying goodbye ?
i asked .
my grandfather found out i was working for your dad and was furious .
he forced me to disappear .
she snapped her fingers .
no goodbyes .
no explanations .
just the letter .
then he hired malcolm to take my place .
my family is not dangerous .
at least not me and dad .
mom used to go on a lot of trips .
i thought they were for her scrapbooking business .
but maybe they were official trips to kill people .
i tried to tell my grandfather that , but he would not believe me .
and then you started poking your nose around where you should not .
that did not look good .
she narrowed her eyes .
it was always about my mom , i murmured .
i didnt know whether to be furious , happy , or sad .
the conflicting emotions whirled inside me , pulling me one way and then another every few seconds .
the prisoner groaned .
aimee put her arm around his back .
i must get you to help .
he pulled me close again .
his ragged breaths were filled with pain .
he tried to talk but his words jumbled together and he spoke nonsense .
aimee put a hand to his face .
he is burning up .
he must go now .
i put my hand behind him to help her .
this man had risked everything , and he might lose his life , for me .
as much as i wanted to hear more of aimees explanation , i had to hear the rest of his story .
no .
she pushed my hand away .
i need your help .
what ?
there is nothing i can do to help you .
i want to help him !
tears filled her eyes once more .
i need you to save my grandfather .
please ?
i can bring this man to a hospital .
i speak the language .
but i can not do that and save my grandfather .
i stared at the prisoner , the pain etched in the lines on his face , the weariness of weeks of captivity .
hed put himself last , and me first .
a girl from a vision who he didnt even know existed until today .
he had faith .
but could i trust aimee ?
you do not trust my grandfather , and you are right .
jolie does not always make the right decisions .
he has a bit of a temper .
she twisted her hands , not able to meet my eyes .
he is probably involved in something illegal but i know nothing about his business .
i am still your friend .
i am like you .
she lifted her head .
trying to save my family .
her words sank in deep , taking root and reminding me of all the reasons id lied or done something wrong .
at the extravaganza preliminaries , someone , still didnt know who , had me shoot jolie with a tranquilizer .
had that been a warning for him ?
maybe today at the finals , theyd finish the job .
maybe instructions were waiting up at the table for me .
maybe id be a distraction , while some hired gun finished the job .
or maybe it was my mom who would be doing the killing .
i had to know .
fine .
ill go see what your grandfather is up to , but only if youll see that this man gets treatment and money to leave the country .
aimee opened her mouth to speak but a gunshot rang out , echoing in the small chamber .
this time , we both screamed .
forty two the shot glanced off the wall with a spray of dust .
the butler was crawling toward us , the revolver hanging from his hand .
i didnt have time to think , just react .
id watched just enough spy thrillers with my dad .
my leg shot out and caught the butler in the face .
one more kick , and his weapon skittered across the floor .
his head fell to the floor and he didnt move , knocked out .
is he one of the bad guys ?
i asked .
i do not know .
aimee shook her head .
i will come back later for him .
quick .
my grandfather is in trouble .
i can feel it .
i grabbed the heavy revolver and shoved it down the back of my pants just in case .
it felt bulky and obvious .
one more thing .
in my apartment , in my bedroom closet is a whole lot of cash .
if i dont make it , take half and give it to this man to leave once he is well .
then take the other half and leave it for my dad , for spy games .
she nodded .
i stood , unable to turn around and leave .
she was still my friend , and this was goodbye , possibly forever .
she pulled me into a hug and whispered in my ear .
i am sorry .
for everything .
for not letting you know somehow that i was okay .
for not telling you the truth from the start .
we clung to each other , both of us reliving the memories , the laughter , the sharing wed experienced in our short friendship .
she was my first friend in france , and i didnt get nearly enough time with her .
i wanted to apologize for not asking more questions , for not insisting she tell me about her life .
instead id let her distract me and had focused on my problems .
now i wanted to hear about all her troubles with her grandparents , and her memories of her parents before they died .
but the words stuck in my throat .
before i could respond , she kissed my cheeks and left with the man leaning on her .
i never learned his name .
we parted .
probably forever .
at the doorway , the man turned .
stay safe .
protect your life .
i ran back through the tunnels , my thoughts confused , my heart aching .
i stormed up the stairs , down the hallway , up more stairs , and burst into jolies kitchen .
empty .
my feet felt rooted to the ground .
my mind was back in the catacombs , reliving my knife throwing and the crimson spreading across the butlers crisp white shirt .
i couldve killed him .
i leaned over and rested my hands on my knees , breathing in and out , in and out .
holy crap !
i had a revolver sticking out the back of my pants .
i couldnt think about everything hed said , his visions , my death .
maybe he had breathed catacomb air for a wee bit too long or had his stories mixed up .
i had to focus .
aimee wanted me to save her grandfather .
everything id worked for i had to turn away fromvindication , justification , all of it .
but for some crazy reason , it felt right .
i yanked off the flower pin on my shirt and crushed it under my heel , our recorded conversation gone forever , any incriminating evidence destroyed .
at the front door , i paused , scanning the extravaganza .
i needed to mix with the people .
the crowds milled , the dancers danced , the singers sang , the mimes mimed and none of them knew the truth .
i slipped out the door and joined the flow .
a crowd of people strutted past .
old and young , male and female all dressed in black trench coats and yapping nervously .
spy games ?
a shiver ran through the core of my body .
why were they here ?
i thought about the times id zoned out at staff meetings .
i thought about dads plans to include a well known businessman after the louvre disaster .
i thought about jolie bragging how he was going to work for my dad .
how ?
i wasnt sure .
the teams flooded the street and sidewalks .
amidst the dark sunglasses , baseball caps , old man hats , trench coats , and pea coats , i didnt spot malcolm .
he was supposed to be working for spy games .
dad had put him in charge of a group because of his spy look .
please .
the groups weaved in and around the reporters and mimes looking for someone .
one spy client waved his arms and shouted jolies name to his group .
my dad had asked jolie to be an informant and hand out clues ?
then jolie had told the truth .
he was working with my dad .
this was so not in the plans .
damn .
the news jolie had been spotted rippled through the teams .
three of them approached him like school children gathering around the most popular kid .
they jostled for position .
their greedy hands reached forward hoping to touch his apron or grab the clue .
i wanted to sprint forward and pull them all back , let them know that spy games had turned dangerousas in life or death dangerous .
but my feet wouldnt move , and i watched , helpless , numb from all the surprises thrown at me .
one group , led by a tall man with silver hairanother wannabearrogantly pushed his way past the reporters and through the jockeying crowd .
he strode up to the great pastry chef who would propel him to victory .
he spoke to jolie , and received not even a look or a wave of the hand .
red crept around the guys collar line and up his neck .
what would he do ?
in front of his group , leading the charge , would he tolerate being ignored ?
he cleared his throat and spoke again .
spy games clients pressed in on them .
jolie took a deep breath and turned , his body expanded to full height and breadth .
french sputtered out of his mouth .
too bad he was too annoyed to speak in english .
another client in a trench coat approached jolie who threw his hands up in the air in defeat .
his face turned redder and redder as the spies all called out for the clues .
and then out of the corner of my eye , i caught a flash of dark hair .
malcolm .
forty three i left jolie for the moment and inched my way through the crowd , closer and closer , squeezing between two reporters huddled in conversation .
i grabbed a tray of pastries and lifted it up in front of my face , a pitiful attempt at camouflage .
the few pastries on it werent even stacked high enough .
so with the confidence of a trained f.b.i .
agent , i made my way to all the contestants tables , and when they werent looking , i grabbed a pie , a cake , or some kind of pastry to build my tower .
i absolutely could not let malcolm see me .
about ten yards away , i peeked around a strawberry tart .
malcolm was shaking his finger in the face of a street mime with black lips and black triangles above and below his eyes .
i gripped the tray to prevent myself from dropping it and running .
taking baby steps , i moved as close as i could without being obvious .
i turned my back and listened .
the tower of pastries wobbled a bit .
the frosting shone in the sun .
my arms strained under the weight .
what the hell is your problem ?
malcolm snarled .
just watching out for you .
go back home .
you havent left me alone since i found her .
the mime laughed .
does someone have a little crush ?
do you know how dangerous that is ?
thank god im here .
to get the job done .
malcolm lowered his voice , and i couldnt hear .
i pushed through the crowds a bit further .
how did malcolm know the mime so well ?
the mime spoke .
do you have the guts to follow through , or should i ?
follow through ?
my arms shook harder , and i almost dropped the tray .
was jolie in danger ?
or was i ?
aimee counted on her grandfather .
she loved him .
she needed him .
in one big flood my feelings toward jolie changed .
i wanted to save him for real .
back off , malcolm threatened .
i got this .
and ill take care of the girl too .
the colors and sounds of the extravaganza swirled around me .
the classical music started to sound like something from a horror moviethe part where the main character gets killed .
the sugary smells made me feel sick .
the m word sat in the back of my throat , and i had to take in deep breaths .
i rushed away on wobbly legs , scared id give in to my impulse to slam my tray of delights into their faces .
why would the mime be following malcolm around ?
why would they want to murder jolie ?
and what girl would they be taking care of ?
me ?
jolies voice roared above the crowd .
he held out his arms in a lame attempt to ward off the spy games teams .
but he must have had enough , because with a grand flourish , he reached into his coat and threw what had to be the next clue into the crowds .
the papers fluttered in the breeze , dancing over the heads of the spies .
in a mad frenzy , they rushed forward , knocking over reporters , grabbing at the air , desperate for the clue .
he never should have underestimated the competitive drive and determination of the people that sign up for spy games .
i never would again .
my eyes widened as a couple of the clues completed whirly birds and landed gently on the top of jolies entry to the contest .
silence gripped the crowds as the last clue landed .
it was a perfect distraction for me to talk to jolie , whisper words of warning in his ear .
i crouched , but as i approached , men in tuxedos closed in on me .
jolies minions .
who else could they be ?
they stood in a perfect line , not saying a word , their faces unreadable .
i half expected them to start kicking up their legs in a line dance they were so perfectly organized .
did they spring from the cobblestones ?
maybe it was coincidence .
i waved my hand at them , gesturing i needed to get through .
excuse moi !
they didnt blink an eye .
damn .
i was stuck .
savvy ?
i whipped around .
dad ?
the lines on his forehead looked like mountain ridges .
hey , dad !
i forced a smile and waved , a tad bit relieved .
they couldnt drag me away , not with dad to protect me .
he eyed the line up of men in tuxedos and leaned closer to me .
what is this all about ?
he asked .
what do you mean ?
my voice sounded like alvin the chipmunk .
this .
he pointed to the mountain of pastries on my tray .
oh , that .
i , um , entered the pastry contest .
he would be proud if he knew the truth .
i had finally become everything he wanted me to be .
i was sneaky .
i lied to him about not feeling well , and id rubbed shoulders with a bad guy .
he pointed to the crowd of spy games clients all grasping at the paper clues .
please tell me you dont have anything to do with this .
i dont .
they all arrived at the same time .
promise .
the line of jolies men stepped closer , their top hats blocking out the sun .
dad eyed them while pulling me a few steps away .
is there something youre not telling me ?
he asked .
time for the truth .
if i could face down bad men and save a prisoner , i could face my dad .
im sorry .
i searched his eyes , looking for some hint of understanding or compassion .
when you wouldnt believe aimee had been kidnapped , i stole into your office to find out where peyton lived .
dads mouth formed an o , and he surveyed the scene with a knowing look .
while i was looking at your files , you came back , and i overheard you talking about money troubles so i entered the extravanganza .
i won first place and advanced to the finals .
theres prize money , and if i win , you can have it all .
the words seemed useless and my voice dropped to a whisper .
thats why i lied earlier about not feeling well .
the crowd screamed .
dad and i turned and watched .
the moment of reckoning had arrived .
the group of clients had jumped at the remaining clues on top of jolies mountain of elegantly displayed fruit tarts in the shape of a dove or a pelican .
some kind of bird .
mon dieu !
jolie dove at the crowd with his arms spread , pushing the crowds away from his masterpiece .
okay .
i felt a tiny bit bad .
as the spies in training struggled over the clues , they gave no regard to the tarts .
in a matter of seconds , they were covered in an assortment of colors .
strawberry juice dripped off their hands like blood .
it couldve been a rated r violent movie scene .
dad gripped me in a hug .
i tensed , ready for the lecture .
im proud of you , savvy .
i pulled away .
say that again ?
he had to be kidding .
im not saying you did everything right .
but you took risks .
and that man has been the most stubborn mule to work with .
he deserves it .
i smiled .
dad didnt know the half of it .
jolie gave up on his tarts .
he stood with his back to us , his shoulders heaving .
his body trembled .
i tried to step back , but the wall of minions blocked my way .
inch by inch , jolie turned around .
he searched the crowds , back and forth , until his eyes landed on me .
he shoved the reporters and his fans to the side and stormed over to me , his eyes flashing .
and that was when i fully grasped the old clich of , you cant have your cake and eat it too .
forty four french expletives burst from jolies mouth and burned through the air and into the minds of the crowds .
a mish mash of red , green , and blue frosting stuck to the front of jolies belly like encrusted jewels .
his fingers were curled into fists .
i had to warn him .
his life was in danger .
savvy .
what did you do ?
dad asked in a low voice .
i spoke out the corner of my mouth as jolie advanced through the crowds , the cameras and press following him .
nothing really .
just stole his pastries .
and freed his hostage .
um , savvy ?
not now , dad .
evil is nigh .
your tray .
zut alors !
the whole middle section slid forward .
reaching around with a forceful shove , i pushed the whole masterpiece back into place .
you !
with one word , jolie commanded my attention .
i slowly faced him while the tray balanced precariously on my arm .
im sorry , sir .
jolie narrowed his eyes .
it is too late for that .
a man with curly hair pushed through the wall of people .
he gripped a digital tape recorder and a pencil stuck out from behind his ear .
jolie moved his killer glare to the reporter .
i swallowed what little spit was in my mouth and tried to find the courage to tell jolie he was in a lot of trouble .
like someone might try to plant a bullet in his chest .
jolie spoke in rapid french and the reporter backed away , cowering .
to my right at the perimeter of the contest , malcolm moved closer to us , slipping in and out of the crowd like a stealthy predator .
i scanned the mass of people until i found the mime to my left .
i didnt know what he had to do with malcolm yet , but he was connected .
that i knew .
he did his mime thing , and with every exaggerated motion , he moved in .
possibly for the kill .
i had to get close enough to talk to jolie without anyone else hearing .
i goaded him .
mr. pouffant , i understand weve had our differences , but really , if you were to be honest , youd see that i was not the aggressor in this unfortunate situation .
jolie chuckled and faced his fans .
they echoed a forced chuckle .
silly girl .
he made a cuckoo sign , like a fourth grade boy would to a girl who teased him .
you do not know what you are talking about .
yes , i do .
i stepped closer to him and lowered my voice .
your life is in danger .
as jolie laughed hysterically , malcolm and the mime closed in .
my limbs trembled and blood pumped through my heart so fast it scared me .
um , savvy ?
dad whispered .
the cakes !
i didnt take my eyes off jolie , while keeping the pastries balanced .
it seemed rather silly that i gripped the pastries as if they could protect me .
use the revolver , a tiny voice inside my head commanded .
the cold metal of the barrel pressed against my lower back , hidden away .
dad stepped forward .
now , now , mr. pouffant .
im sure we can work things out here like reasonable people .
jolies eyes flashed .
reasonable ?
you americans are not rational .
your daughter attacked me earlier with her zapper .
how is that for rational ?
dad hooked is arm through mine and pulled close to me .
is this true ?
yes .
i was done lying .
but only so i could search his shop .
jolie eyed the pastry cakes on my tray .
and she is stealing cakes for an entry .
my face burned .
only because you destroyed my entry before i even got here .
dont you dare try to deny it .
like you had a chance of winning ?
that is a joke .
why did i want to save this man ?
dad puffed out his chest .
my daughter can bake a mean birthday cake .
watch it .
my throat tightened .
hed stuck up for me .
that rarely happened .
ever .
during spy games , i always disappointed , always made the wrong choice , always caused a scowl to cross his face .
way to go , dad , i whispered .
oh , how touching .
jolie smirked .
i do not have time for this petty back and forth .
he signaled to his guards .
these people are disrupting the extravaganza .
escort them to the exit .
the power hungry pastry chef , beloved by his country , running illegal scams of some kind behind his wall of scones and croissants , turned his back to me .
but i had to make him believe me .
jolies goons ripped dad away from me .
savvy !
dad cried .
he fought against the men holding his arms .
when the crowds started murmuring and even more attention swung onto jolie , he motioned to the men to stop dragging my dad away .
the tray weighed on my arm and on my mind .
i grabbed a hunk of cake .
blue , green , and white squeezed between my fingers .
it felt squishy .
hey , jolie !
right as he turned , i threw it .
it was a silly , two year old thing to do , but i couldnt help it .
the man infuriated me .
and i had to warn him .
the cake landed in jolies beard and dripped onto the front of his shirt .
he reached his hand up only to smear the colors into his beard .
slowly , his hand went from his beard , to the frosting on his shirt , and down to the sides of his pants .
his fingers twitched .
he shifted back and forth between his feet as if ready to run or attack .
a low growl sounded in his throat and rose to a loud pitch .
he rushed at me , arms outstretched , aiming for my neck .
i waited until the last second and then slammed the tray into his face .
forty five cake splattered the ground .
a tart smeared into jolies hair .
veins in his neck bulged .
sweat dripped down his face and mixed with the frosting stuck in every crevice .
with one swoop , he grabbed a hunk of cake from the ground .
two seconds later , warm cake hit my eye .
i gasped and wiped it off .
huffing and puffing , he took a step toward me but slipped in the confectionary delight .
with a flutter of his arms , he fought gravity and lost , landing on his rump .
i hated the guy and the evil part of me surged forward and wanted to let him get killed .
aimees smile flashed in my eyes .
and her laugh .
i caught sight of dark hair .
malcolm .
use the revolver , the tiny voice commanded again .
with my hand shaking , i reached toward my back and curled my fingers around the part sticking out .
i couldnt think about right or wrong .
jolie spluttered and gasped , wiping frosting from his eyes .
three of the men in tuxedos pushed me aside and rushed to their boss .
two dragged my dad away toward the exit .
id lost sight of malcolm and the mime .
but they were there .
possibly taking aim .
shoot the revolver .
cause a distraction .
i pulled out the gun and aimed at jolie .
maybe just shoot him in the knee .
but what if i missed ?
or hit someone else ?
my hands shook .
frosting made my fingers slippery .
with a small sob , i let go .
the revolver clattered to the stones and i kicked it under a table .
but i still had to save him .
i grabbed an apple tart , somehow untouched in the chaos .
with a battle cry , i leaped at jolie and landed right on top of him .
my knees landed on his stomach .
i smashed the tart smack dab in the middle of his face .
as i bent down to whisper in his ear , a shot rang out .
everyone screamed and dropped to the ground .
the bodies blurred around me , piling up like it was a mass murder .
i couldnt tell if i was screaming or not .
my throat hurt .
frosting and tears stung my eyes .
a sob poured out of me .
it wasnt me .
i didnt shoot it .
jolie shoved me off of him , and i landed on the cobblestones .
my leg throbbed as if a thousand pastry knives were jabbing into it over and over again .
i crawled away from the scene , dragging my leg behind me because it refused to cooperate .
i dug my elbows into the grit and pulled forward , my knees scraping the stones .
i needed to get away , find my dad .
that was it .
hed whisk me back to pennsylvania and put me back together .
hed take care of my cuts and bruises , and then wed play chess .
or talk about how wed work together to get mom to come back .
dad !
i sobbed .
he had to be here .
not too far away .
just up ahead .
the crowd ignored me .
they focused on their beloved idol and their own safety .
most people made a mass exit toward the main streets .
they hurdled over me and on me .
feet trampled , landing on my back , my head , my arms .
my nose smashed into the ground .
no one stopped to help .
no one bothered .
no one cared .
i struggled to get to my feet .
someone brushed into me .
i collapsed to the ground and crept forward , painful inch by painful inch .
the spots returned and my breath came out in gasps at the fire shooting through my leg .
i shivered even as the sun beat down on me .
i shouldnt be here .
i never should have been .
i should have stayed in pennsylvania .
i stopped moving and rested my cheek to the warm stone .
i smelled dirt .
i remembered gardening with dad as he pointed out which leaves were weeds and which were the herbs .
a raspy noise gurgled from my throat .
i didnt recognize it .
my shoulders shook .
arms hooked under my shoulder and rolled me over .
the face was fuzzy but i saw dads dark hair .
his face was blurred .
dad !
i sobbed .
im sorry .
i shouldve told you everything .
my leg burned .
i jerked away .
but he held me tight and wrapped something around my leg .
im sorry but this is going to hurt .
he put his arms underneath me and scooped me off the ground .
away from the crowds and the jabbing feet .
dizziness and nausea rushed over me , and i cried .
shh .
youll be fine .
through the pain , my mind locked in on his voice .
it wasnt dad .
forty six adrenaline shot through my body .
why ?
i groaned .
i wanted answers .
why did he pick me up when he could have left me to die ?
why did he smile at me so tenderly at times when i was just an assignment ?
while holding me , malcolm talked into his earpiece , telling someone to meet him .
probably calling in the big guns to get rid of me .
this was not how i planned on spending my last minutes on earth .
i figured on old age , still living in the burbs , watching tv reruns .
no one in the town would have pegged me for death by assassin .
dad .
id never get a chance to explain everything .
id never get the chance to yell at mom and hear her say she was sorry .
i tried to lift my head but it felt like a dead weight pulling me down .
i struggled to get out of malcolms clutches and mumbled empty threats .
shh .
dont try and talk , he murmured .
dont let anyone kill me .
he didnt say anything .
my head rolled side to side as he walked .
i flashed in and out of awareness .
next i knew , a bridge appeared next to me , and a jolt of pain stabbed my leg .
steps .
i smelled the tangy waters of the seine .
he lowered me to the stony ground .
my eyes fluttered wider .
dont try to escape , he said .
i tried to call for help , but my voice came out hoarse and raspy .
he pulled out a knife , and dads words rolled through me .
fake it until its real .
okay .
i was brave .
i was a fearless warrior who would never give up .
call me , ninja .
with a quick kick of my good leg , i made sure my jab landed right in malcolms gut .
he struggled against the momentum and fell backward .
i tried to scramble to my feet , but excruciating pain caused spots to tango in front of me .
i shook it off and took a deep breath .
id crawl away if i had to .
he grabbed my foot .
i screamed and kicked him off .
three seconds later , his arms wrapped around me .
the floodgates opened and i beat against him with my fists .
i know .
i know all about you .
my words came out a sob .
i know jolie hired you to spy on my family because someone wants him dead , and he thought my family had something to do with it .
but hes just a pastry chef and makes the best croissants , and then i realized that someone must be trying to kill me too or my mom and it must be you but that doesnt make any sense because i know you wouldnt hurt me .
i took in a ragged breath as my body heaved , tears running , nose sniffling .
i wouldnt hurt you .
now shh .
i need to remove the clothing so we can see if the bullet is in your leg .
he laid me down gently .
dont move .
my eyes widened .
bullet ?
yes , you heroically jumped in front of a bullet to save jolie .
why , i have no idea .
with short , jerky movements he rubbed a cloth over his knife .
i was going to shoot him , i whispered .
but i didnt .
my leg .
the gut wrenching pain made me want to puke .
i didnt plan on saving jolie like that , just cause a distraction so the creeps couldnt get a clear shot .
material ripped as malcolms knife cut through my right pant leg .
the leather from the most expensive pair of pants i owned fell to the ground .
a shadow fell over us and a familiar voice tickled my ears .
hey , isnt that why you called me ?
peyton .
peyton ?
malcolm handed him the knife .
whoa , whoa , whoa !
i shouted .
my life had become a funhouse full of mirrors .
peyton grinned a normal , nice , warming smile .
gone was the swaggering , cocky jerk who had participated in spy games .
hey there , darling .
bet you never expected to see me again .
he poised the knife above my leg .
i have to dig around a bit .
this might hurt .
i pushed back and tried to squirm away .
hes here to help .
malcolm gripped my arms so i couldnt move .
let him .
hes much better at this than me .
i held my breath .
pain like a thousand fireworks exploded in my leg .
youre lucky .
the bullet wasnt in too far .
this will sting .
he dabbed some kind of liquid fire on me that i swear burned a hole through my leg .
what the hell ?
the pain seared my skin , and i felt like the fiery flames of hell were punishing me for my lies .
im cleaning it .
hold on .
im almost done .
peyton focused on my leg , his hands gentle but confident .
he unrolled a bandage and wound it around my leg .
i flinched .
why ?
i dont understand .
my world had gone topsy turvy .
in my world , peyton had packed and gone back to the states .
in my world , peyton and malcolm werent buddies who called each other in a pinch .
peyton smiled at me again but spoke to malcolm .
man , you cant stay here long .
the police are crawling all over the city .
he slapped malcolm on the back .
good luck .
he turned back to me .
sorry about all that fuss and trouble i caused you .
nothing personal .
warmth hung like a halo around peyton .
he winked and then disappeared up the stairs .
he was not the same man from spy games .
or hed had me completely fooled .
guess you want some answers , huh ?
the knife still lay at malcolms side .
that would be nice .
my leg throbbed but i clenched my teeth because i needed the truth .
peyton is a friend of the family .
i called him in to distract and lead you away from jolie .
he bit his lip .
and to threaten you , so i could save you and earn your trust .
his answer clicked , and peytons uncalled for rage and drama made sense .
but how and why malcolm knew peyton dropped to the bottom of my list of questions .
i saw you .
my words grated and tension throbbed between us .
if you didnt shoot me , who did ?
his face showed no emotion as he finished adding extra tape to my leg .
hed used me .
hed pretended to romance me just to spy on my family .
hed lied to me when he knew where aimee was the whole time and then he tried to act like the hero in searching for her .
lies .
all of it .
but in another time , another year , another life , maybe in a regular high school in the middle of pennsylvania somewhere , in the midst of cheerleaders and chem labs and spanish tests , we mightve been friends .
maybe we wouldve dated and gone to the movies or for ice cream .
we wouldve had a normal first kiss .
he wouldnt be a hit man .
i wouldnt be a wannabe spy still living with her dad , who screws everything up .
answer the question .
who shot at me ?
that was my brother .
as the mime .
he lifted my head and sloshed water down my throat .
it streamed along the sides of my face .
with the bottom of his shirt , he wiped off any frosting from my skin .
brother ?
and then it all came together .
the mime id seen on our date at the parc des buttes .
and at the extravaganza .
i wanted answers , needed answers , but the whole day was crashing down on me .
my thoughts swirled together and turned into a blurry haze .
malcolm ?
what ?
who are you ?
forty seven malcolm didnt answer me but sat with his arms resting on his knees .
his gaze lingered on the rippling water .
when did your mom first contact you ?
pfft .
i dont know what youre talking about .
he turned toward me , and my heart squeezedout of fear or attraction i wasnt sure .
i know all about your family , he said .
i laughed and not in a jokey sort of way , then winced as pain shot through my leg .
i dont know anything about yours .
except that his brother likes to dress like a mime and try and kill people .
you dont want to know .
he looked bitter .
i guess i wasnt the only one with a dysfunctional family .
he reached into an inside pocket and pulled out a small flask .
this might help with the pain .
my heart completed a set of short , staccato beats .
was this some sort of cathartic release he was experiencing ?
tell me the truth , heal me , and then let his brother kill me ?
malcolm .
he knew .
i could see it in his eyes .
it was time .
just tell me the truth .
he opened the flask and handed it to me .
i tipped my head back and the liquid scorched my throat and burned in my chest .
he inched closer .
do you know anything about your moms work ?
not really .
shes a scrapbooker .
i highly doubted that was true .
mom worked a lot , spent late nights locked away in her office , and frequently left on trips .
he took a swig .
tell me about her .
shes one more person whos not what they seem .
after taking another sip , my body already felt the effects .
what do you know about my mom ?
and then he gave the typical cryptic response .
i wish i could tell you , but that would only put you in danger .
right .
i stared at his profile , his strong jaw line , desperately wanting to believe he cared and was telling the truth , but i was seeing only the tip of malcolm .
i dont know where to find my mom .
how can i protect myself if i dont know whats going on or why people are after me ?
he turned his eyes on me and really looked at me , as if he could see past all of my charades and self defense .
a battle raged on his face .
he clearly didnt know how much to tell me .
our families are enemies .
they have been for centuries .
my family takes care of future leaders or politicians that will lead our world away from a united front , those people who will cause damage to our world .
i gulped .
take care of ?
i was pretty sure he meant take care of permanently .
what about my family ?
are you sure you want to know ?
yes .
i think .
i mean how bad could it be ?
right ?
your family , your moms side of the family , will do anything to protect those persons in danger .
regardless of their criminal activity or moral bent , your mom believes in the sanctity of life .
we fell silent as i soaked in his words .
the truth .
finally , the truth .
my mom wasnt an assassin .
my mom wasnt an assassin .
my mom wasnt an assassin .
those words danced in my head and in my heart , lifting my spirits .
she saved people .
even though your great grandmother and your grandmother knew my family , my dad , my brother , and me we didnt know where to find you and your mom .
until recently .
malcolm grimaced and i took this to be bad news .
especially for me .
howd you find out ?
we laid a trap .
there was no smirk on his face this time .
my dad chose a completely innocent man who had dabbled a bit in criminal activitiesbut no one we would ever look atand we made it look like he was our next target .
my heart broke at how their trap had affected aimees life .
pouffant ?
yes .
it was a carefully laid trap for your mom first and then you .
we planted the package and the money .
but why did you try and kill him if he was innocent ?
not only were they crusaders with a twisted mission , they were just plain old mean .
if my brother , will , wanted jolie dead , he wouldve been dead .
he picked at his fingernails and glanced at me .
he was probably aiming for you before you jumped on jolie .
he shot at us on our date and at the park tooas a warning to me .
what about the prisoner ?
how does he fit into all this ?
i asked .
jolie figured out he was friends with your mom and nabbed him for insurance .
dont say anymore .
i get it .
when my mom meddled and tried to save jolie , they figured out who she was , and then she disappeared from my life to go into hiding .
thats why she told me to burn the package , to not get involved .
too late .
a crazy laugh bubbled up .
the whole scenario sounded like some unbelievable story that belonged on dateline or something .
great .
ive got people trying to kill he pulled me to him and his mouth covered mine .
i fought him back at first but he wouldnt let go and my defenses crumbled .
heat washed over me as his kiss deepened .
his body pressed into mine .
i stifled a tiny groan of pain and pleasure .
the vodka had pretty much numbed any feeling in my leg .
his kiss deepened again , and it was better than eating a triple peanut butter chocolate ice cream cone in pennsylvania or skinny dipping in the creek when it reached 100 degrees .
his kiss softened .
he was gentle and loving , like he cared .
his hand grazed my cheek .
his past , my past , our families all faded .
it was just me and him .
malcolm and savvy .
two teens .
my heart broke a little bit .
i dont even know why .
maybe because i could add one more person to the list of people i cared about who would betray me and leave me .
one more person i cared about more than they did me .
his hands slid down my back to the hem of my shirt .
in one suave lift , my shirt was off .
my hands roamed across his chest , exploring .
he tenderly ran his fingers down my arm , and i shivered .
he whispered in my ear , god help me , youre beautiful .
even with frosting in your hair .
the words sank in and something broke .
the cracks in my heart that id plastered and put band aids on tore open .
emotion flooded out and filled every inch of my body .
my face was wet with tears .
he pulled away and kissed them .
in my line of work , you cant care about anyone too much .
it can get you killed .
thats good , because i dont care about you .
the tears are purely a post traumatic side effect of getting shot .
at least i was pretty sure my life wouldnt end tonight .
malcolm rubbed his thumbs under my eyes .
i leaned into him for another kiss , not wanting to admit my feelings or forgive .
his soft lips were warm and inviting .
he pressed his mouth against mine harder , and a thrill ran through my insides .
he pushed me back , kissed my cheek , and whispered in my ear .
savvy bent , dont you ever let anyone hold you back .
youre the most amazing girl ive ever met .
i couldve told you that from our first date , i teased .
or when you first asked he kissed me again , then pulled away , leaving me breathless .
you and me .
our families .
just being with me puts you in danger .
his voice held a note of sadness and regret .
at that moment , i didnt care .
i pulled him back to me , needing to feel him against me .
i held him tight , close to me , as if that could fix everything .
his warmth spread through me like wildfire , igniting , growing , burning away the rest of the fear and tension .
he broke away .
i wish i was half as strong as you are .
i mean it .
youve made me question everything in my life .
my family .
their line of business .
i want to leave it all .
but i cant .
not yet .
we can get past this .
somehow .
not if you want to stay alive .
his face changed , from soft and passionate to hard and determined .
sirens grew louder .
i cant let you get hurt .
i wont let that happen .
in one swift movement , he pulled my arms behind my back .
something cold and metal clamped around my wrists .
the judge pronounces you guilty .
i yanked away .
somehow , i didnt think the cuffs were for fun .
the high school scenario of two teens fooling around dissolved .
my body quickly cooled off , and i tried to ignore the fact my shirt laid in a crumpled mess on the ground beside me .
malcolms eyes twinkled and he stood up .
you .
wouldnt .
dare .
forty eight oh , but i would .
malcolm smiled .
he unsnapped my spy pants and gently pulled them off so as not to hurt my leg .
it was too hard to kick my legs again without shooting pain .
gee , thanks .
he cleaned up any mess from peyton wrapping my injury , then brushed my hair out of my face .
you didnt think id forget , did you ?
blood rushed to my face .
but , but my leg !
shouldnt you bring me to a hospital or something ?
im sure someone will find you soon .
but , but , my dad !
hell worry .
and hell hunt you down !
ill be gone .
he punched numbers into his phone .
fear rose in my throat and clamped down on my vocal chords .
ill hunt you down !
i threatened .
ill be disappointed if you dont .
he leaned forward and pressed his face into my hair , then he dropped his head and tried to kiss me .
but i turned away .
he started to leave , but i was still desperate for answers .
i trembled , trying to build the courage to ask what secretly my heart wanted , needed to know .
the words barely made it past the lump in my throat .
am i just an assignment to you ?
i sent the package to your moms apartment knowing she wasnt there , hoping to draw her out of hiding , and testing you to see if you would take her place .
when you did , it made you look guilty , but as time went on i was convinced of your cluelessness even though others werent .
you didnt answer the question .
yes , you are , i mean were but he couldnt say the words .
instead , he said , savvy .
you have to believe me .
when i first asked you out , i didnt know any of this .
about our families and the age old battle .
nothing .
by the time my family filled me in , it was too late .
but its not too late for you .
walk away from all this and forget about me .
live a normal life .
bitterness settled on his shoulder like a winter wind .
trust me .
because next time you might not be so lucky .
then he turned and walked away .
probably forever .
not long after , the sirens grew louder in the distance .
dad must be worried sick , and i couldnt bear to think about malcolm and the lasting effects of his words .
i glanced at the bandage on my leg .
how soon would the vodka wear off ?
would i be able to walk home ?
i had to try .
i pushed up onto my feet , balancing delicately on my good leg .
i couldnt easily forget that i was in my underwear and bra .
i desperately wished i were wearing my new victorias secret bra , which was folded neatly back in my drawer .
it would be near impossible to get home without anyone seeing me .
maybe id end up on a youtube video , get like a million hits , and wind up on tv .
i limped up the stairs , wincing at every step .
the green grass and paths with scattered trees and benches stretched in front of me .
couples held hands while chatting happily and strolling innocently .
families dragged tired kids back to the metro .
businessmen strode through without even a glance at their famous tower .
this was going to be impossible .
suck it up .
i took a deep breath and with my head held high , i half walked , half hobbled away from the eiffel .
my hands were still cuffed behind my back .
at first the stares , the giggles , the crazy looks , the disgusted eyebrow waves got to me .
i tried not to look at anyone and kept my eyes forward , thinking about home .
that was my goal .
ask for help .
right .
like anyone would believe my story .
it wasnt one i could explain in one sentence .
id need more like six months .
i made it to the road and started down the sidewalk .
unless someone was looking for me , it was dark enough that the average driver wouldnt notice me .
the shadows were my friend .
cooler air prickled my skin .
i thought about summer nights in pennsylvania after a tough afternoon of pulling weeds .
id bike down to the creek , shed my clothes , and wade into the ice cold water .
id fall backwards , and the current would envelop me and wash off the dirt and grime from the day .
i always rose clean , refreshed and ready for more .
so here in the streets of paris , the musical sounds of the most romantic city on earth washed over me , lifting the guilt from not being the perfect daughter , sifting away the anger that somehow mom was to blame for all of this , and chipping away at the fear id never see malcolm or aimee again .
or ever hear the rest of the prisoners story .
at least id survived .
sirens wailed in the not so far distance , their warning echoing throughout the city .
my heart banged against my chest like it would punch out in just a couple of beats .
sweat dripped down my sides .
i hobbled a bit faster , regardless of the blood now seeping through my bandage and dripping down my leg .
several cars screeched to a stop on the road next to me .
a huge spotlight swept back and forth until it stopped on me .
talk about embarrassing .
i didnt see anyone running !
your guy must be somewhere else !
i yelled in a raspy voice .
the spotlight stayed on me .
men in uniform rushed at me from all sides .
with guns .
pointed at me .
oh .
my .
holy .
spy .
pants .
they were after me .
i couldnt breathe .
my chest stopped rising and falling .
they didnt seem to care i couldnt breathe .
one man , carrying a shieldi guess because i looked just that dangerousgrabbed my arm and threw me against the nearest car .
the cold metal shocked the skin on my stomach .
when he realized my arms were cuffed , he dragged me out into the street .
the cops had set up a roadblocki guess in case all my minions came to my rescue .
people poked their heads out of their cars , hoping to catch a glimpse of the hardened criminal .
i mean the person must be quite a danger to society to need so much back up .
right ?
the uniforms crawled all over me .
it was like i was in a mosh pit , except my destination was the back of a cop car .
the vodka must have worn off because the pain in my leg returned full force .
i leaned over and puked .
i heard a bunch of expletives in french .
cold words bounced off me .
rough hands grabbed at me until i was pushed into the car .
i didnt think it was a free ride home .
i yelled for my dad .
i asked where they were taking me .
i struggled but the pain felt like they were starching their shirts on my leg .
they slammed the door shut .
two cops sat in the front , the mesh cage separating me from them .
the car zoomed through paris .
i must be pretty important to have an escort .
i pressed my head against the cool window and watched the city as it blurred past me .
tears pushed at my eyes but i refused them .
i would be strong .
i didnt know how they found me or why they thought i was so bad .
maybe the same reason mom didnt want to fight for me .
i doubted my prank on malcolm had ended up with him in the back of a squad car .
he said i was beautiful .
right .
like i believed him .
malcolm was a sneak and a liar .
not only one more person just to leave me , but to leave me practically naked , bleeding , and handcuffed .
i guess i deserved it .
the cop driving the car gripped the steering wheel in a death grip .
somehow i had to explain that id saved jolie pouffant and his prisoner .
the guy id knifed was an accident , self defense .
i thought i told you to burn the package and not get involved .
my heart stopped beating , and i looked into the rearview mirror .
stern eyes met mine .
the cop took off her pointed hat and long brown hair spilled down her back .
mom !
so many words burned in my throat , wanting to be spoken .
so many questions .
the second cop took off his hat and turned toward me .
i couldnt forget those warm chocolate eyes .
the prisoner .
youre lucky i found you .
mom ?
i croaked .
her lips pressed together , but her eyes stayed on the road .
then she spoke .
were leaving the country .
to be continued in heart of an assassin .
click to purchase book 2 heart of an assassin .
thank you for reading a spy like me .
i hope you liked it !
would you like to know when my next book is available ?
then you can sign up for my newsletter , follow me on twitter laurapauling or check out laurapauling.com .
did you know this book is part of a series ?
the rest of the books are heart of an assassin , vanishing point , and twist of fate .
i also wrote heist , a darker time travel mystery .
i hope youll check them out .
visit laurapauling.com for more information .
reviews are a tremendous help to the author but mostly it helps other readers to find books .
i appreciate all reviews .
would you mind posting a review ?
thanks !
if you enjoyed a spy like me , then you might enjoy my latest ya romantic comedy series .
if youd like to read the first chapter of prom impossible , please turn the page .
1 girl 1 prom 3 guys prom impossible !
cassidy knows that michael greenwood is her one true lovehe just doesnt know it .
she spends her senior year helping him figure that out in time for senior prom but instead , she comes close to losing her true identity , her real friends , and the chance at the real thing thats right in front of her .
the night my life changed forever .
smoke billowed out through the side doors of the high school gym in great puffy clouds , creating exactly the effect wed wanted .
it filled the night sky with the sweetokay , the smokyscent of revenge .
at the time , we were juniors .
the underclassman .
the underdogs .
and my cousin , jules , was in an all out war with the senior class queen bee .
wed endured a year of lost battles , detentions at failed pranks , and lies , thanks to bea wallace .
it was senior prom , and it didnt take long for everyone to stampede into the parking lot .
flashes of brightly colored dresses appeared through the smoke , the girls panicking and the guys pretending they were all macho and protective when they were probably peeing their pants .
we just set up a few strategically placed smoke blasters to add a little excitement to their lives .
stories to tell their grandchildren .
in a few years theyd be thanking us and laughing about it all .
the whole idea had started when my uncle rudie and dad sent the grilled pizza up into flames .
im not even sure who came up with it first , but suddenly jules and i were planning revenge with words like prom and smoke machines sneaking into the conversation .
we didnt even debate .
there was no doubt .
we knew wed settle the score the night of senior prom as our way of saying goodbye and good riddance .
the fire trucks zoomed into the parking lot faster than wed expected , their lights flashing and sirens blaring .
the smoke in the air tickled my nose and back of my throat .
um , do you think what we did could be considered more than a prank ?
like a felony ?
maybe we used one too many blasters .
no way .
its just smoke , cassidy .
jules peered around the corner of the building .
firemen stormed the side lawn and rushed into the gym with gas masks and hoses at the ready .
a sickening feeling in the pit of my stomach mushroomed into the need to puke behind the bushes .
i nudged jules and couldnt help but glance at the trail through the woods that led to our getaway .
we really should get going .
ill go start the car nothing i said wouldve changed her mind .
she was set in her spot behind the landscaping , her eyes fixed on the parking lot in hopes of finding bea .
just a few more seconds , she finally whispered back .
my skin prickled and my armpits were sticky and uncomfortable .
a sure signal i needed to leave .
ill see you back at the car .
uh huh .
she was still fixated .
i stepped out from behind the bush , my feet itching to run .
stop right there , miss , the deep voice called from the shadows .
mistake one ?
i didnt stop .
the heat of getting caught flared and my armpit sweat morphed from a trickling stream into a river .
slowly , i moved toward the woods while spitting out the planned excuses .
i held out my chemistry book .
just getting my chem book for finals , officer , sir .
stop .
now .
his voice grew deeper and more threatening .
my getaway slowed to a crawl .
i waved the thick text .
got to get studying .
i glanced at the woods .
what if i outran him to the waiting car and we ended up in a high speed chase through the neighborhood ?
all i could picture were the explosions and fire and flipped over cars that usually ended those chases .
i didnt want to end up like that .
it was almost our senior year .
i was too young to die .
hands up !
the cop ordered .
slowly , i turned and raised my hands with the heavy text .
why hadnt we picked english lit so i could hold up a slim copy of poetry ?
i didnt even give the cop a chance to ask any questions .
i produced a few crocodile tears , which wasnt hard , because i was in complete panic mode .
oh , please , sir , im just trying to achieve high grades .
my senior year is coming up and that means college applications .
you had nothing to do with this ?
he nodded toward the fleeing prom couples .
thats the truth , sir .
my voice came out shaky like i was about to break down .
then i guess you wont mind coming down to the station and taking a polygraph while chatting with the detective .
this was where i realized i watched too many crime shows and interrogations where the cops shouted and played mind games .
i blurted out the truth .
okay , yes , i lied .
im sorry .
i panicked and cops scare me .
his face steeled like i was in for it .
i appeal to your softer side , officer .
maybe you have kids and know they make mistakes .
ive made mistakes but ive seen the light .
he narrowed his eyes and reached for the handcuffs on his beltor was it his gun ?
i blubbered .
im not perfect , i admit , but please dont throw me in jail for years .
my parents will kill me .
they said one more thing and my life would be over .
one more thing ?
he raised an eyebrow and his face softened .
maybe there was a slight chance .
it really wasnt my fault when our storage shed burst into flames or when the fire alarm at the mall went off or when the entire ski lodge had to be evacuated on our vacation .
seriously .
i swore i saw someone sneak a homemade bomb into the trashcan .
it turned out to be trash but it looked suspicious and wed just had a bomb threat at school so i had bomb on the brain .
they were all innocent mistakes .
you can see that , right , sir ?
that was when i realized that what i mistook for compassion was really an amused curiosity .
i shouldve stuck to the story .
thank god i didnt mention all our failed pranks this past year .
that definitely wouldve made me look guilty .
why dont we take a little ride and you can explain your story down at the station .
with your parents .
oh .
i tried not to wiggle when his hand clamped down on my arm like i was a threat to humankind .
i didnt look back once because jules and i had made a pact that if one got caught , the other wouldnt squeal .
i just never thought the one getting shoved into the back of squad car would be me .
my parents arrived at the station with unusually pale complexions .
mine probably wasnt any better .
id hoped for some comfort food like cupcakes or homemade chocolate chip cookies .
even bakery cookies would do in a pinch .
but no such luck .
they listened .
they nodded their heads , but i didnt see even one fake smile , for me anyway .
they uh huhed and yessed and said we completely understand a lot .
the drive home was silent and scary .
dad finally spoke when we were in the driveway .
well need time to talk to the school and think about this so we dont make any rash decisions .
make no mistake .
we are disappointed in your decision , and there will be consequences .
that was all that was said for weeks .
prom impossible is the first book in the series .
prompossible plans and covert kissing are available now .
visit laurapauling.com for more information .
sign up for my newsletter to be notified of new releases .
about laura laura pauling is the author of the exciting young adult circle of spies series , the prom impossible books , and the time travel mysteries , heist and a royal heist .
she writes to entertain and experience a great storyand be able to work in her pajamas and slippers .
to keep up with her new releases sign up for her newsletter so you dont miss out !
shed love to hear from you !
sign up for lauras newsletter .
goodreads facebook blog twitter laurapauling erichs plea book one of the witchcraft wars by tracey alley smashwords edition published by tracey alley on smashwords erichs plea book one of the witchcraft wars copyright 2013 by tracey l. ali this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
dedication this book is dedicated with much love to my dad , graham martin , who taught me the value of dreams ... . and to my mum , janet , who gave me the means to make my dreams come true .
i would also like to give thanks to the people who helped make this book a reality andrew farrawell , scott jensson , rachel and andrew lennox gordon , john rittmeir , and matthew old ... they helped to bring my characters alive .
i also have a very special word of thanks to the extremely talented geoff armstrong who did all the interior artwork for erichs plea through geoffs hard word , under pressure i was finally able to meet my characters face to face .
the dream slade could feel the warmth of the rising sun on his face .
the subtle scent of the sacred oak trees filled the air .
all around him was the slow chanting of the druids who made this forest their home .
opening his eyes slade saw his druidic mentor standing before him , a guide to this sunrise initiation ceremony .
karels wise , heavily lined face was hidden by the coarse linen cowl he wore but slade could sense the gentle smile underneath the rhythmic chanting .
karel had once been a mercenary soldier , selling his skill with a blade to the highest bidder .
then karel had turned his back on his former profession and joined the ranks of those who served the gentle woodland goddess suelta .
after years of service he was now her high priest and archdruid of the sacred grove .
the other male and female members of the grove , who represented virtually every race in the kingdoms , formed a chanting circle around slade and karel as they welcomed slade into their circle .
once the ritual was completed slade would be presented with the druidic ring with its wide , silver band engraved with oak leaves and begin his new life .
slade felt as though his heart would burst with pride .
joining the druids of the sacred grove had been his dream for more than a year .
finally he had succeeded and it was a triumph he had earned solely on his own merits , owing nothing to his birth .
from this day on slade would renounce his former life .
he would give up the right to continue the training he had begun with the warrior monks of the black lotus and dedicate his life instead to serving suelta .
slades decision involved more than just giving up an old profession .
he had also given up his name and his birthright .
no longer would he be known as einreich gudmundson .
no longer would he be the crown prince of the vast northern kingdom of saxenburg .
he would no longer be erichs designated heir , in spite of his position as a second son , to the centuries old high throne .
slade knew he had disappointed his father , high king erich , in his decision to leave court .
nevertheless his father had allowed it , would even have attended this ceremony had protocol allowed .
knowing he had hurt his father pained slade deeply but he knew it was the right decision for him .
slade wanted nothing more than a life free from the intrigues and pressures of his fathers court .
suddenly a deep shadow filled the grove and a bluish tinted light dappled the ground .
it was as though the sapphire moon were beginning its ascent instead of the fiery sun .
startled slade looked up at the sky only to find it clear and cloudless the deep shadow caused instead by a huge black dragon in flight .
the giant creature had a wingspan easily twenty feet across , its body more than twice that amount including the long tail , serpentine neck and huge wedge shaped head .
slades breath caught in his throat , the beast above was magnificent , indescribably beautiful .
slade found himself falling to his knees as he gazed in wonder at the immense dragon , inexplicably hanging stationary in the air .
slade wondered what a dragon , and a black dragon at that , was doing so far south ?
traditionally they were found only in the far north of the northern badlands .
slade looked up towards his mentor , certain that karel would have some explanation of this incredible sight .
instead slade was horrified to see karel had somehow grown or expanded , towering above slade and his fellow druids .
karel threw off the cowl , the material splitting as karel continued to grow , and revealed the grotesque creature that he had become .
as slade watched in growing horror and confusion the thing that had been karel still retained his humanoid shape but everything else was now grossly distorted .
he or it , slade was no longer sure , looked a little like the ogres of the north , a bald oversized head on an incredibly strong and muscular body .
yet it also closely resembled the woodland trolls , having their tough , green tinged skin and elongated arms and legs .
the creature turned his back on slade and faced directly into the rising sun .
slade was terrified , he knew none of this was natural or normal , and he did not understand what was happening .
then he heard his fathers voice fill the air .
follow the trunk , my son .
follow the trunk .
only you can save me .
follow the trunk .
save me , my son , only you can save me .
the voice faded to a whisper on the wind and all was dark .
slade opened his eyes , as much as possible given the amount of swelling that had not yet receded from his most recent beating .
as expected he saw only the flat , stone ceiling of his prison cell .
once again , he had been dreaming , but this dream had been unlike any of the others .
slades druidic initiation had taken place nearly five years ago , the ritual going as expected , with no unforeseen dragons or ghosts of his fathers voice .
this dream had possessed an otherworldly quality to it that slade had never before experienced .
it felt as though his father were truly trying to communicate with him .
somehow slade sensed the essence of the dream was true , but he had no idea how his father could have come to him in his dreams .
even though he felt convicted of the dreams truth , slade could not imagine why his father should be in need of rescue .
even more enigmatic was his fathers dream instruction to follow the trunk .
what could that possibly mean ?
diablis prison gingerly slade eased himself into a sitting position on the small pallet with its infested straw that served as a bed for him in this tiny prison cell .
his eyes were still swollen almost shut and pain accompanied every breath he took .
pain caused , slade was certain , by at least one , if not more broken ribs .
despite his growing certainty that his beloved father was in some kind of trouble , slade couldnt help but wonder how any trouble his father might be in could possibly be worse than his own current predicament .
it had been a little over two months now since he had last seen the sun .
travelling through the wilderness that made up the bulk of the kingdom of brikenwald , he had been ambushed and arrested before a speedy trial saw him convicted as a spy .
it was obvious that the charge was a ridiculous fabrication , but the kingdom of brikenwald had no allegiance to any of the other kingdoms of kaynos and so anyone within its boundaries was subject to their laws , even if they were patently obviously false accusations .
initially slade had not been terribly concerned , convinced he would be able to escape sooner rather than later .
unfortunately the opportunity had not presented itself before he had been placed in the bowels of a ship headed for this wicked island prison in ixlan .
once on board any attempted escape was impossible .
not only was the distance required to reach the shore too far for him to swim , but he had also discovered to his dismay that when travelling the rough eastern sea , he suffered from debilitating seasickness .
two months ago he had arrived at ixlans diablis prison complex and been taken to this subterranean dungeon with its smooth stone walls , mazes of corridors , little or no lighting and the constant smell of death , blood , waste and decay in his nostrils .
he had been alternatively beaten and tortured for hours on a daily basis .
his own screams blending with the cries , screams and moans of the other , unseen , sufferers in diablis 's nightmarish torture chambers .
the horrors here were so great that even the rats eschewed diablis , although the fleas showed no similar scruples and were an additional constant torment .
his body was covered head to toe with tiny bites from the multitudes of the awful creatures .
slade would not have believed it was possible for a place like diablis prison to exist if he had not seen it with his own eyes .
it well deserved its evil reputation .
diablis also had a reputation for being inescapable no one , in all its long history had ever escaped from its confines , except in death .
slade had never believed half the rumors that had surrounded diablis before , now he saw clearly they were all true and worse .
he also knew why so many of those imprisoned here died and , it was said , were glad to , death being preferable to daily life in diablis .
each day that passed for slade saw his strength being steadily sapped his once lean and muscular frame becoming daily more wasted .
between the pitiful amount of barely edible food , the near constant beatings or other , more inventive types of torture slade had become a shadow of his former self .
only two things had so far prevented slade from succumbing to the horrors of diablis .
physically he relied on the strengthening exercises practiced by the monks of the black lotus .
the exercises , a compulsory part of his training , had once kept him lean and strong , now slade believed they were keeping him alive .
to survive emotionally and mentally slade found himself relying on memories of ming to endure diablis 's tortures .
slade recognized the irony , that ming , who he had spent the past five years trying so hard to forget now haunted his thoughts , waking or sleeping , and he welcomed the memories .
his thoughts of ming and the relationship they had once shared had given slade the courage to endure the beatings , the torture and the cold , hard stone of his underground cell .
this far below ground it was impossible to tell the time accurately but very faintly he could hear the far off sounds above him that typically heralded a new day .
soon enough guards would come for him and escort him to whatever torture was to be his fate that day .
still moving carefully slade dressed in the filthy prison uniform he had been issued , which was now little more than rags .
he performed his morning ablutions then slowly and painfully began to work his way through the series of exercises .
as he worked through the strengthening exercises slade wondered about his former teacher .
solomon was head of the black lotus monastery , and had trained slade , his older brother ulrich and their younger sister ursula .
the master had taught all of them many extremely useful tricks .
tricks that now might help him escape , which slade would willingly employ at the first possible opportunity .
given his growing conviction the bizarre dream was a true omen of danger slade vowed he would somehow find a way to do the impossible and escape , and he would have to do it soon .
while the strict regime and constant torture that was life in diablis prison seemed to afford no opportunity and slade could not readily see a way out he would nevertheless have to make a way .
shortly after beginning his second set of exercises two prison guards arrived .
they were big , burly men with the rough , dark skin and slightly flattened noses that were evidence of some orcish blood .
the guards were obviously not ixlan natives , who tended towards pale skin and dark hair .
this was hardly surprising very few of those in charge in ixlan were natives .
it was hard to believe that the island kingdom of ixlan and his home kingdom of saxenburg had once been close allies .
in fact slades grandfather , vidar , had been a cousin of ixlans former ruler eldritch .
since the invasion , however , ixlan and saxenburg had become bitter enemies .
although the invasion had happened before slades birth he had heard all the stories .
a little over forty years ago the once peaceful island kingdom had been thrown into chaos by orc armies that had swept across the land looting , burning , killing many of the people and forcing the rest into slavery .
eventually even king eldritch had been slaughtered , his head posted on a spike outside the gates of diablis city .
the assault of the orcish armies had been swift and brutal , taking all by surprise and there had been no time for slades grandfather to send aid to his cousin .
by the time saxenburgs troops had landed on the main island the orc army was so firmly entrenched that the men , slade 's father erich among them , were lucky to escape the island with their lives .
word had eventually filtered through the kingdoms that a man known only as the dark one was ixlans new ruler .
who he was or where he had come from no one knew .
all that was known about the dark one was eventually learned through bitter experience .
his unwarranted cruelty , his tyranny , and his apparent omniscience all too soon became legendary .
a once beautiful archipelago of islands whose folk were mostly fisherman and traders ixlan had now become a home to cutthroats , murderers and a pirate haven feeding the otherwise illegal slave trade .
justice , law and order were now unknown in the islands with the surviving natives reduced to slaves for their new overlords .
as an island kingdom with a highly trained and skilled navy , ixlan was impregnable , yet slades father had never relinquished his dream that the kingdom could one day be reclaimed .
although who his father wished to reclaim the kingdom for slade had never known as eldritchs only son and heir had disappeared during the invasion and never resurfaced .
slade , like his father , was tall and normally very well built , over six feet of lean muscle with the reddish hair and pale skin typical of saxenburg .
his captors , however , were taller still and in his currently weakened condition , considerably stronger .
as such slade did not even bother to struggle when his captors took hold of his arms to lead him away .
for the past two months this had been a silent procession through the maze of cells to one of the many hideous subterranean torture chambers .
today however , his half orc guards were talkative to each other , of course .
the language they spoke was not orcish or common .
it was unusual but eventually slade recognized it as a form of one of the hill giant dialects .
when he identified the language slade was so puzzled by this he stumbled and almost fell , only to be roughly dragged upright by his jailers .
where , he wondered , would a couple of bloodthirsty ixlan guards have picked up hill giant ?
the majority of the giant tribes lived in the northern badlands and they were a peaceful people whose only wish was to be left alone .
today was certainly turning out to be a day of surprises .
first the strange dream , then hearing his captors speak for the first time , in a dialect that made little sense , and now it appeared his guards were not taking him to one of the underground torture chambers after all .
as they turned into a long , narrow corridor slade could see a staircase at the end of the hall .
a staircase leading up , not down .
the wheel room apart from the day of his arrival , slade had spent no time on the main floor , which was the only part of the prison at ground level .
like all prisoners he had been processed in a large room on the main floor , stripped of his belongings then given the rough trousers and loose overshirt of the prison population and taken below ground .
slade searched his memory for details of the main floor but his time there had been so short that he had only the dimmest impression of the layout .
the stairs ended in a small stone alcove that made an abrupt right turn into a huge , blindingly bright sunlit room without any ceiling .
slade blinked back tears from the painful light and tried to make sense of the room before him .
in the centre of the long open room was an odd structure , like a wheel turned on its side .
it had a central core with iron bars coming off the core at evenly paced intervals .
what purpose the structure served was impossible to tell but its use was immediately apparent .
several prisoners were already chained to the iron bars and were walking endlessly in a circle causing the central core to move .
a few of the prisoners appeared relatively healthy while others were virtual skeletons , their skin hanging loosely from bones .
he saw that some of the prisoners were darkly sunburned while others appeared to have only recently been brought to the wheel room , given that their skin was still so pale .
stationed around the room were several more guards .
some , like slades captors , of probable orcish descent , others obviously human but every one of them equipped with long whips , crossbows , sharp daggers and heavy leather jerkins .
slade was half walked and half dragged to one of the empty spokes , his hands tied quickly to the bar with strips of leather .
the whole procedure being performed on the move as the other prisoners continued to turn the wheel .
once slade was tied to the structure there was no choice but to keep moving .
as he walked , slade tried to get a sense of the rooms location within the prison complex .
the wheel room , as he termed it , seemed to be positioned in the centre of the main floor .
slade remembered diablis as a long rectangular building .
he could see doors leading out of this room to either side and there was a pair of reinforced wooden doors in the middle of the northern facing stone wall .
there were no doors in the wall behind him , which slade believed meant it was probably an outer wall .
unfortunately he saw nothing that seemed to offer any chance for escape .
slade soon realized that this part of the prison complex had been very cleverly designed to catch the full rays of the sun for as long as possible .
morning , afternoon and deadly midday sun beat down on slade and his fellow prisoners as they walked or , more frequently stumbled on and on in a pointless and endless circle .
that this pointless and backbreaking labor was performed under the blistering sun only made the work more torturous .
with sweat dripping from his body slade could not even begin to imagine how unbearable this would be in summer it was torturous enough now in the middle of winter .
the wheel made a continual low pitched whine and emitted occasional flashes of extremely bright light .
slades curiosity about the wheel gnawed at him but he forced himself to concentrate instead on the prisoners and guards , searching for any possible weakness he could use to escape .
there were only ten guards watching the thirty prisoners tied to the wheel , a number he found encouraging .
slade fought the mind numbing monotony of the wheel and concentrated on watching the guards and his fellow prisoners .
his observations had to be made surreptitiously .
any obvious move to look around was halted by a quick lash from the nearest guards whip , something he learned when he felt the sting across his shoulders and the guard shouted at him to keep his eyes down .
not wishing to incur the wrath of the guards or the feel the sting of the lash again slade focused for the moment on the man directly in front of him on the wheel .
he was as tall as slade with the blue black hair and pale skin of an ixlan native .
his wide , heavily muscled shoulders and arms indicated that the human was probably a warrior .
the prisoner walked shirtless , his bare back showing a pattern of lash marks , all of them likely to have been gained here in diablis .
yet there was something about the strangers walk that seemed vaguely familiar to slade .
puzzling over this slade eventually decided he had recognized the type and not the man .
his fellow prisoners were predominantly human with the occasional elf or dwarf .
not surprisingly there were no orcs , half orcs , hobgoblins , ogres or goblins .
these were the races that made up the bulk of the dark ones army , along with a scattering of humans , and their penalty , regardless of the crime , was always death .
gossip that filtered through the kingdoms claimed this was because only the so called inferior races , or more specifically humans , elves and dwarves , were fit to be made prisoners .
how the dark one reconciled his classification of humans as inferior given that he himself was said to be human had never been fully explained .
the true warriors , a blatant appeal to the vanity of the orc and goblin races , once thought of as little more than animals by many , it was said could never be imprisoned or enslaved and so had to be killed .
wiser voices said the reason the dark one killed those in his army for all infractions was solely to promote terror among the rest .
obedience tended to be more automatic if death was the punishment for every crime and there was no shortage of goblins , orcs , half orcs , hobgoblins and ogres in the north .
slade believed that was the true reason behind the policy .
combined with the fact that if the dark one began executing humans , dwarves and elves on a wide scale some of their native kingdoms might join together to retake ixlan .
slade carefully turned his attention from his fellow prisoners to the guards .
at first it appeared the guards maintained a strict watch on the men at the wheel but gradually slade began to realize this was not the case .
for the most part the guards walked around , not to keep an eye on their charges , but to talk with each other .
whether this was normal behavior on their part slade had no way of knowing .
the whine of the central core made it difficult to overhear what they were saying but from the small fragments of conversation he was able to catch , it seemed to slade that all the guards were excited about some upcoming festival .
with each slow revolution of the wheel slade heard the guards talking about the food , the drink and the planned entertainment .
surprisingly it appeared from their talk that most of the guards in the prison complex had been given time off to attend the festival , called the sun ascension , which would leave the prison guarded by only a skeleton crew .
somewhere in the back of his mind slade knew the sun ascension festival was familiar , although in his exhaustion he could not remember why .
all that day slade and the others walked .
the heat , despite the winter weather , became unbearable .
sweat poured off their bodies , and still they walked .
only twice was the wheel halted , the prisoners were given a cupful of tepid water , some bread and cheese , and then the walk was resumed .
salty sweat dripped into slades swollen , puffy eyes making them sting and dribbled down his arms causing the leather thongs tying him to the iron bar to tighten painfully , cutting into his wrists and still they walked .
if anyone fell , and some did , the others kept walking , dragging the unfortunate soul along regardless until they were able to stumble to their feet .
some of them never did regain their feet , until slade realized with horror they were dragging along a dead man .
in its own way the wheel was every bit as effective a torture as those practiced in the dungeons below .
eventually the sun began to set and the wheel ground to a halt before each man was freed and led downstairs .
slade took note that the guards transported one prisoner at a time , with two guards to each prisoner .
no more than two pairs of guards would leave at the same time , which meant that there were always at least six guards watching the still tied prisoners .
even if an escape attempt during this period had been possible he doubted he had the required energy or physical strength to even try .
utterly exhausted slade was unable to do more than stand slumped over the bar and wait to be led back to his cell .
that night he dreamed again , not his usual dreams of ming and the past , but the strange dream of his father .
this time slade recognized the dream the same initiation ceremony ending so abruptly with an echo of his fathers voice with its enigmatic command to follow the trunk .
for the next three days slade endured the monotonous horror of the wheel during the day while the dream came every night .
his conviction of the dreams truth grew and along with it a desperate need to escape .
each day the guards continued to talk about the coming festival and the small snatches of overheard conversation gave slade the tiniest seed of a plan .
if the festival was as important as the talk of the guards made it appear then there was a chance the guards on duty that day might be distracted and , of course , there would be far less of them with so many attending the festival .
that distraction , coupled with a tiny sliver of bone that slade had retained from an evening meal and sharpened to a knife like edge , might be enough to allow him to escape .
at worst , he would die and after all he had been through dying no longer seemed the worst possible scenario .
follow the trunk the morning of the festival was slades fourth day on the wheel , and he was prepared .
the sliver of bone was hidden between the index and middle fingers of his left hand .
his heart was pounding horribly in his chest all the way to the main floor .
with each step he took slades fear , his terror , grew .
fear that in his currently weakened condition he would not have the strength required to overcome even one of the burly prison guards , let alone what would likely be many .
fear that the guards would discover the sliver of bone and then all his plans would come to nothing .
as it turned out all his fears , and his plans , were in vain .
arriving at the wheel room slade was pleased to note there were , as he had hoped , fewer guards than usual .
in fact there were only six guards , including his two escorts .
what he had not expected or planned for , however , was the distraction being provided by a new prisoner .
the prisoner was well over seven feet tall , heavily muscled and appeared to be a nightmarish blend of troll and ogre .
slade stopped cold in shock this was the creature that he had seen in his dream , the thing that karel had become .
exactly as it had appeared in his dream the huge creature had the general appearance , height and musculature of the northern ogres with the green skin and elongated arms and legs of the woodland trolls .
trunk not go on wheel !
trunk go home !
the creature said roughly .
as he spoke , trunk flexed his huge , elongated and extremely powerful arms and threw off both his guards with the ease of a child tossing away a small doll .
despite the creatures thick , guttural accent he was still easily understood .
slade was certain this was the trunk of his dreams .
all slade had to do now was follow the trunk as his father had instructed .
the two guards who had escorted slade ran , along with the other remaining guards , to the aid of their fallen fellows .
one of the fallen guards , slade could see , would never rise again his neck twisted so that it appeared he gazed eternally over his shoulder .
without stopping to think slade used the ensuing confusion and the sudden surge of energy from adrenalin to run to the wheel .
using the sharpened bone sliver he cut the leather thongs of the first prisoner he came to and received yet another shock .
he knew this black haired man it was wulfstan , who had grown up with slade in the palace of anglia , and was now a member of his royal fathers elite bodyguards .
for what seemed like minutes , but in reality was only seconds , the two men simply stared at each other in shock .
take this , slade said handing wulfstan the bone sliver , free as many men as you can , somehow were getting out of here .
he then darted across to the fallen guard and grabbed the long whip .
straightening up painfully , his broken ribs had still not fully healed slade saw one of the guards approaching him warily .
slade flicked the length of the whip out , demonstrating that he knew how to use the deadly weapon .
never taking his eyes off the guard slade waited and prayed for his moment , the moment when his opponents attention would waiver for a second and he would be able to make his strike .
slade could feel the tremors in his legs his breathing was still labored and painful .
he would have to finish this human guard off quickly if it were to happen at all , and judging by the sneer on the mans ugly face he knew well just how weakened slade actually was .
it seemed to slade that the world had slowed down , that everything was moving in slow motion .
when the guard began to move his whip slade felt as though he had all the time in the world to react .
bringing up his own whip slade swept the leather thong low to the ground , catching and curling around the ankles of the guard causing him to stumble and fall .
one of the other prisoners , a dwarf slade didnt recognize , jumped on the humans back and grabbing the guards dagger slit his throat in one smooth motion .
looking around him slade saw the entire wheel room was in utter confusion .
groups of guards were pouring into the room and were being mobbed and brought down by the desperate prisoners .
the creature called trunk had single handedly dispatched three more of the guards .
yet there were almost as many prisoners lying dead as there were guards .
slade , the adrenalin still pumping through his body providing him with strength he had not dreamt he possessed , began edging his way through the fray towards trunk .
reaching trunks side slade put out his hands , palms down , in the universal gesture of friendship .
wulfstan , followed by a group of five of the healthiest appearing prisoners , ran towards them .
weve got to get out of here quick , wulfstan yelled over the noise , maybe your big friend could help us break down those doors , wulfstan pointed at the two wooden doors in the northern wall .
slade believed the doors wulfstan had indicated would be the quickest way out of the prison .
good idea , slade started to reply but his voice was cut off by the ear splitting noise of the alarm .
trunk screamed loudly , heard even above the klaxon sound of the alarm , sounding as if he were in extreme pain .
immediately the giant creature turned and ran to the back of the room towards the stairs .
follow him , slade yelled to wulfstan , pointing to trunk .
are you crazy ?
the way out is here wulfstan shouted back pointing again to the double wooden doors .
although he hated to do it , slade used the only weapon he had .
follow your orders soldier !
he commanded .
for a split second wulfstan was shocked , slade could see the surprise on his face , but then he spun around and together with slade followed the fleeing trunk .
none of the prisoners who had been working alongside wulfstan upstairs had followed slade and wulfstan as they raced after the ogre troll .
the other prisoners had scrambled instead for the main doors , believing that offered the best promise of escape and possible safety .
slade prayed he had made the right decision in pursuing trunk and was not condemning himself and wulfstan to what would surely be a slow and protracted death if they were caught .
for such a large creature , trunk moved surprisingly fast , loping along on his long legs so that slade and wulfstan lost sight of the ogre troll almost immediately .
his trail , however , was easy to follow the bodies of two guards who had confronted trunk lay dead at the foot of the stairs .
the corridor they were in ran for roughly one hundred feet , with several other corridors branching off it and was very dimly lit .
at least here , underground , it was quieter than on the main floor .
apart from a few distant screams and the faintly heard ringing of the alarm little else could be heard .
the two men began to walk cautiously down the corridor , wulfstan automatically moving slightly in front .
at the first branch , wulfstan peered into the corridor , but the lack of light made it difficult for him to see more than a few feet .
turning back towards slade wulfstan shook his head .
it was unlikely trunk had gone in that direction the narrow hall appeared to be completely deserted .
they continued further down the main corridor .
after approximately fifteen feet , they came across another guard , his neck neatly broken .
at least now they knew they were heading in the right direction .
slade paused briefly to catch his breath , leaning heavily against the smooth stone , as wulfstan continued ahead .
a sudden noise behind him caused slade to spin around , the purloined whip still clutched in his hand .
the noise was only a fellow prisoner apparently the only one who had followed them back down into the subterranean maze of the underground torture chambers .
the prisoner was quite short , coming barely to slades shoulder , slightly built with untidy medium brown hair and clouded chocolate brown eyes .
sizing up the newcomer slade quickly decided the man had either not been a prisoner for very long or had not yet been subjected to diabliss inventive tortures .
the strangers linen pants and tunic seemed nearly new and slade could not see any visible lash marks or bruises .
slade smiled briefly at the young human and lowered his whip as wulfstan backtracked towards them .
wulfstan , easily the fittest of all of them , whispered to slade and the newcomer to follow behind him closely and silently as he continued to move throughout the shadowy prison corridors .
the next corridor branch turned north and had burning torches spaced intermittently all the way down allowing wulfstan to see the fallen bodies of two more guards .
with a small shrug , wulfstan motioned for slade and the stranger to follow him down the corridor .
wulfstan wondered why they were wasting time tracking down this half ogre when they should be working at getting out of the prison .
he had , however , spent his entire adult life in service to saxenburgs royal family and was not about to disobey a direct order now , even if it came from someone who had abdicated his right to the throne .
this corridor had doorways leading to four separate rooms two on the left side of the corridor and two on the right .
at the second doorway three more of the guards lay dead .
peering around the corner into the room , wulfstan was so horrified by what he saw that he nearly vomited .
it was a large rectangular room , roughly twenty feet wide by thirty feet long .
the room had obviously been used as a torture chamber there was dried blood , waste and what appeared to be bits of skin and flesh spattered all over the tables and the floors and the stink was overpowering .
bizarre implements wulfstan had never seen before hung on the rough stone walls , their purpose horrifically obvious .
six long , low tables stood in the centre of the room .
each table had iron shackles at the top and bottom , evidently used to tie the unfortunate victim in place .
wulfstan had not seen this room , or any like it , during his time in diablis prison .
now , seeing it for the first time , wulfstan thanked whatever gods might be listening that he had been spared this fate .
looking around wulfstan spied a small door that he had not immediately noticed .
in the far corner of the room , the door was made from stone instead of wood , making it barely distinguishable from the surrounding stone walls .
moving cautiously , with slade and the other , still unnamed man , wulfstan walked towards the door .
lying dead on the floor in the middle of the room was the strangest creature wulfstan had ever seen , dead or alive .
tall and thin the thing had a strange , tentacled head and a gaping maw of a mouth .
it was dressed in elaborate robes , similar to wizards robes and looked like something from a nightmare .
wulfstan could only stare and wonder what manner of creature this was and what on earth was it was doing in diablis prisons torture chambers ?
theres magic here , strong magic , the skinny stranger whispered with a touch of awe in his voice , i dont know what that thing is but i dont like how this feels his voice trailed off .
slade looked at the dead creature and , like wulfstan , wondered what it could possibly be .
how do you know theres magic here ?
slade asked the small man .
i 'm a wizard i can smell it , beyond that door .
very powerful magic .
i dont know whether we should even go in there , but i know you will .
the wizard looked calmly at slade , smiling just a little .
wulfstan watched the two of them he did not like magic , did not understand it and , although he would rather have died than admit it to anyone else , he was also a little afraid of magic .
his duty however seemed clear he must open the door and enter the room first .
although , as he reached for the door wulfstan was no longer sure what his duty was , after all slade had relinquished his place in the royal line .
steeling himself against whatever he might find wulfstan went to open the door , but as he did so slade reached out a hand and stopped him .
better let me do this , my friend , you two wait here .
slade said .
slade had expected the stone door to be heavy and hard to open but it swung open easily at his touch .
inside was a small chamber , just large enough for the long , low table in the centre with about two feet of space all around .
the room was brilliantly lit , obviously from a spell , as there were no torches in evidence .
trunk stood next to the table looking down at the man strapped there .
the man was human and seemed young .
he would be almost slades height when standing and powerfully built with shiny black hair and very pale skin .
his eyes were closed and his breathing appeared shallow .
slade felt unaccountably cold , as if he stood in an arctic breeze .
the chill seemed to emanate from the man on the table , coming off him in waves .
trunk looked up at slade and then back to the helpless man .
this nikolai , he trunks friend .
you be trunks friend ?
slade was once again struck by how easy it was to understand the huge creature , despite his thick accent .
yes trunk .
ill be your friend .
do you want me to rescue nikolai ?
not yet .
nikolai need quiet , you go outside , we come soon , trunk said firmly .
for a second slade wondered about the wisdom of pausing in their escape attempt , even for a brief while but then he turned and left the room , for now he would continue to follow the dreams instructions .
looking at the wulfstan and the wizard he knew they had heard the exchange so didnt bother to repeat it .
pulling the stone door closed behind him , slade slumped down painfully with his back against the wall to wait .
he felt suddenly grateful for the brief chance to rest , the adrenalin that had carried him this far deserting him as abruptly as it had come .
all right , whats going on ?
wulfstan asked still standing and glowering down at slade .
slade looked up at the big warrior and gave a small shrug .
i dont really know myself .
i just know that i have to get out of here , and it has to be with trunk .
and trunk is some kind of a , what ?
hes half troll , half ogre , speaks understandable common and has friends he wants to rescue ?
wulfstan asked , unable to keep the sarcasm from his voice .
looks like it , yeah .
slade could see why wulfstan would be skeptical but he still felt compelled to follow his dreams directive .
who are you anyway ?
slade asked the wizard .
my name is roulibard .
as i said before im a wizard .
dont ask what i 'm doing here because i havent got a clue .
in fact , im surprised i can remember my own name , everything else is such a blur , anyway consider me at your service prince einreich , he said , finishing with a small bow .
my name now is only slade , slade said quickly , surprised that this young wizard knew his real name .
roulibard certainly seemed inoffensive enough yet slade found that he was troubled by the wizards vagueness and lack of any apparent beatings from his stay in diablis .
slade knew well , from his own experience , that all spellcasters were subjected to the most intense forms of torture from the very beginning of their incarceration .
unfortunately slades body was not the only part of him that was not functioning well , his mind was simply too clouded and tired to think properly .
as for the rest , slade continued , well , i guess we need all the help we can get so glad to have you on board .
this is wulfstan , slade said pointing to wulfstan , in there , he pointed towards the stone door , as you no doubt heard , are trunk and nikolai .
do you know if theres any way out of here from this level ?
slade asked looking at wulfstan and roulibard in turn .
both men shook their heads in a no .
diablis prison has a reputation for being impregnable no ones ever escaped before .
id guess its because theres only one way in or out .
any surprise we may have had is gone now .
coming down here was completely stupid wulfstan finished angrily .
are you questioning my decisions ?
slade asked his voice dangerously quiet .
as a matter of fact i am , wulfstan responded , i dont know what in the nine hells you were thinking of coming down here when the only possible way out was up there .
instead youve dragged us down here and for what ?
slade stood up to face wulfstan , his initial surprise at wulfstan 's arrogant anger giving way now to his own rising anger .
anger , if slade was honest with himself , he knew stemmed from his own concerns about the wisdom of his decision .
slade had followed the trunk based only on the instructions of a dream , something slade would once have condemned as a ridiculous way to make a decision .
now slade could only hope that by following the dreams direction he was doing the right thing , and had not , as wulfstan was suggesting , led them all down here to their doom .
you are a soldier of the royal house and as such slade began , arguing simply out of his own fear that wulfstan was right .
and you , wulfstan said cutting slade off , gave up your right to give me orders when you gave up your right to the throne so dont start with me now .
we shouldve left when we had the chance , by coming down here youve effectively signed our death warrants and i want to know why ?
we came down here for a damn good reason and i do not like your and i dont like the fact , wulfstan again cut slade off , that youve endangered us all .
up there we had others who wouldve fought at our side to get out .
what have we got here ?
a skinny little wizard and and me , nikolai cut in , his voice as hard and cold as ice , and without me none of you will make it anywhere alive .
now , both of you shut up , we have a lot of work to do and very little time to do it in and we do not have time for the two of you to argue .
all three men turned to look at nikolai standing in the doorway leaning heavily on trunks arm .
unlike the rest of the prison population nikolai was wearing his own clothes , loose fitting black leather pants and a plain black , linen shirt .
his black hair was worn long , framing a pale face that would have been handsome if it werent so utterly devoid of emotion .
as it was the sensually shaped mouth and beautifully modeled eyes seemed somehow repellent .
again , slade noticed the chill surrounding nikolai .
right now , we need to make plans .
nikolai turned to address slade , diablis is , or rather has been , impregnable , nikolai continued , this means of course , that we will have to take the entire prison complex .
what , wulfstan asked sarcastically , the four of us ?
five , roulibard said indignantly , still smarting over wulfstans description of him as a skinny little wizard .
sorry , wulfstan said dismissively , the five of us ?
it can be done , nikolai looked at wulfstan only briefly then continued to speak to slade , there are only two levels to the prison , this and the upper level .
we need to first gain control of this level , taking whatever we find to assist us , and then well be ready to take the upper level .
after all , we dont really have a choice , we win or die .
suddenly nikolai laughed .
slade felt his blood run cold hearing that laugh , it took all his courage not to turn and run .
he could see that both wulfstan and roulibard also went a little pale upon hearing nikolai 's cold , emotionless laughter .
only trunk appeared unaffected , gazing calmly at his friend .
unexpected allies outside in the bustling city of diablis itself an unlikely trio of allies were waiting to find a way into the prison complex .
the three were sitting at a small , round table outside a bake house across the plaza from the prisons main entrance , surreptitiously watching the building across from them .
unlike most cities in the kingdoms , where prisons were kept largely out of sight in the poorer districts , diablis city was actually built around the huge rectangular structure .
the complex was surrounded on all sides by a cobbled plaza that featured small formal gardens , elaborate fountains and comfortable benches under leafy trees .
surrounding the plaza was the main commercial district of diablis with its taverns , temples , markets and vendors of every imaginable type , selling almost anything one might possibly want .
the remainder of the city spiraled outward in ever increasing circles .
the poorest sections of town were those furthest from the city centre , and they were little more than slums hidden in the shade of diabliss towering walls .
diablis was normally a busy city , even this soon after daybreak .
today , however , it was even busier , with almost all of the marketplaces and street stalls already open and far more than usual numbers of people on the streets .
this unusual activity was due to the sun ascension festival that was scheduled to be held today at the large temple of vadatajs , outside the east gate of the city .
vadatajs was a vile and evil demi god , dedicated to violence , lust and bloodshed , whose symbol was a pair of red tinged eyes .
virtually all the cities inhabitants were making preparations for the festival , which marked the mid winter solstice .
it would begin exactly at noon and would continue all afternoon and into the night , eventually developing into a very public drunken orgy as the day progressed .
once , under the rule of eldritch , the worship of vadatajs had been outlawed , his few followers acting in secret .
the dark one however , had actively encouraged the citizens to follow the dark and perverted religion .
even those who were not truly devotees of the god would be attending the festival under the dark ones rule non attendance was a sure fire way of coming to his attention , which was something no right thinking person wanted .
are you sure you can get us into the prison ?
the questioner was a powerfully built male minotaur , dressed in the rough garments of a typical peasant .
although minotaurs rarely left their homeland , a group of small islands in the far south commonly called the isles of iona , those that did venture to travel throughout the kingdoms found that they were welcomed by almost all wherever they went .
despite the legendary savagery of the minotaur race , they were also well known for their strict code of honor .
it was the very strictness of the minotaur code of honor that made them such welcome companions to the many mercenary groups and adventurers who wandered the kingdoms .
many of those minotaurs who did leave their homelands travelled widely throughout the northern kingdoms of ixlan and the badlands .
this fact meant that no one looked twice at the shabbily dressed minotaur and his two female companions .
absolutely , answered the smaller of the two women .
a dainty halfling , with an impish face , wide , mischievous green eyes and a long , thick ponytail of honey blonde hair she seemed little more than a child .
dont forget i used to be very good at this sort of thing .
the festival will help us , she said .
at this comment , the minotaur made a growling noise deep in his throat .
hey bully , never mind the impiety , today its going to play into our hands , the little halfling continued .
do not call me bully , lara , i dislike that intensely .
the minotaur said resignedly .
sorry tares , anyway , like i said if darzan here , lara continued pointing towards the second woman , can get us the cart i can get us in .
the laundry normally goes in tomorrow , but i 'm willing to bet with the festival on no ones going to notice or ask questions if its come a day early .
well darzan ?
tares looked to the other woman .
standing about five and a half feet tall , with a curvaceous yet lean figure the dark skinned human woman was incredibly beautiful .
dressed in brightly colored silk pants and a matching shirt with a circlet of pure gold holding her curly black hair in place , gold hoop earrings and a long saber at her side darzan was outlandish , exotic , and also one of the best pirates in ixlan .
hey , as i said from the very beginning , i 'm as good as your gold .
i know someone who can procure the cart for us and he should be here any minute now , darzan answered .
i dislike this stealing , it is not right , tares said in his low rumbling voice .
its not really stealing , tares , were just , um , lara paused , trying to think of something to say , borrowing , yeah just borrowing the cart .
soon as were finished with it we can take it right back .
lara smiled brightly at tares , pleased with her quick thinking .
as she knew better than most , once the minotaur got started instructing people about right and wrong he could go on forever or at least so long it felt like forever .
tares snorted in profound disbelief at lara 's qualification and shook his massive bovine head .
anyway , once my friend gets here , darzan cut in , ill get changed and off to prison we go .
and you are certain he is in there ?
tares asked lara .
yes , yes , yes .
im starting to think you doubt me bulli mean tares .
i told michael i 'd play straight from now on and i meant it .
that is lord michael to you lara , tares began in utter exasperation .
although he quite liked the young halfling he was finding , after only a short acquaintanceship that she took absolutely nothing seriously .
it was a trait that the big minotaur found wearing on his nerves and his patience .
our friend is here , darzan said , pointing to a shabbily dressed human man leading a cart into a nearby alleyway .
come on , darzan said , getting up and walking towards her contact , with lara and tares following her closely .
a short time later an apparent old woman appeared from the alleyway pushing a large , cloth covered cart .
it would have taken a particularly shrewd observer to identify darzan under the shapeless brown woolen dress , large headscarf and bent backed , shuffling walk .
pushing the cart across the cobbled plaza towards the prison darzan was wondering why she had ever gotten involved in this harebrained scheme .
the coin , of course darzan had been offered so much gold that she had simply been unable to refuse .
now , there was a part of her wishing that she had not gotten involved .
still , her part in their plan was small take them into the complex in the cart and then take the cart back and wait .
darzan doubted very much that the two of them would ever come out .
as she drew up to the complex proper darzan saw that there were no guards in the watchtowers .
normally there would have been at least four , two in each tower .
today there were only the standard two guards at the large portcullis gate that led into the outer grounds of the prison .
the reduced number was likely due to the festival and was not unexpected .
as she came closer the guard hailed her .
you there , whats your business ?
the guard was a typical diablis prison guard .
tall , well built , probably at least half an orc and ugly as sin , the dark one seemed to have a never ending supply of guards such as these .
laundry , darzan made her voice quiver like the elderly woman she was supposed to be , just deliverin the sheets n clothes fer th prisners laundrys not till tomorrow , the guard answered suspiciously .
doin it early on account o th festival , darzan sincerely hoped she would be believed otherwise she would have a fight on her hands .
wait here , the guard said and walked over to confer with his partner .
straining her ears darzan tried to hear what they were saying but they were speaking too low for her to pick up anything .
after a few minutes , which seemed like an eternity , the guard returned .
all right , in you go .
straight to the laundry room and out again .
theres been a bit of trouble in there this morning , some of the prisoners started a riot , havent had a chance to clean everything up yet , good dame , so dont be troubled by anything you might see .
darzan found the information extremely troubling .
not so much by the news of the so called riot , shed heard of riots before , but by the usually gruff guards attempt at courtesy .
it was decidedly out of character for a diablis prison guard .
something had gone wrong .
when you had been a pirate for as long as darzan had been you learned how to smell trouble coming she could smell it now .
it was only twenty feet from the portcullis gate to the main , double wooden doors of the prison itself but to darzan it seemed like the longest walk on the planet .
once she was out of earshot of the two portcullis guards she slowed and on the pretence of ridding her shoe of a stone bent down to loosen her saber from its hiding place under her dress in case she should need it quickly .
i curse you two and the day i met you , she whispered angrily , i assume you heard all that ?
you know what this means ?
its obviously a trap of some kind , said tares , his voice muffled slightly .
lets see how far theyre willing to let us get shall we ?
i think i hate you both , was darzans only reply as she continued pushing the cart slowly towards the prison doors .
the lone guard on the door merely opened the doors , waved darzan through and closed them again behind her .
pushing the cart before her , she entered a small room , roughly ten feet square .
directly opposite were two matching wooden doors , to the left and right were other , single wooden doors .
surprisingly , or perhaps not in view of her conviction that this was a trap , there were no guards in sight .
inside the prison darzan stood for a brief moment , and listened intently .
despite the early hour the pirate woman knew there should still have been sounds of activity , yet although she strained her ears she could detect nothing .
the whole prison was deathly silent , something darzan knew without needing to be told , was extremely unusual .
the pirate woman opened the door on the left .
it led into a packed storage room .
the long , rectangular room was lined along the back wall with shelves from floor to ceiling .
food , clothing , canvas sacks , and other assorted items filled the shelves .
on one side of the room was a tall , thin set of free standing shelves .
these shelves were filled , from top to bottom , with rolls and rolls of parchment .
they were probably prison records but darzan didnt bother to look at any of them , there was no time and no need .
instead , she gave the all clear for tares and lara to get out of the cart .
the big minotaur and the halfling climbed out of the cart awkwardly and quickly collected the assorted armor and weapons they had brought with them .
theres no point me going back out there , i 'd stake my life that they know about you two , darzan said .
i agree .
you will have to come with us , tares replied then looked at lara , do you know where we are ?
i think so , lara answered , just outside here should be a biggish room , she looked at darzan who nodded confirmation , then we go through two big doors into the main room of the prison .
theyve got some kind of device , i dont know exactly what it does but they tie the prisoners to it to power the thing .
from that room theres doors which lead to the guards quarters , we do not want to go there .
we will have to fight the guards eventually little one , tares said gently .
i know , but lets avoid them while we can .
i know of a back way that leads to the lower level .
hes a spellcaster so thats where hell be , she paused chewing on her lower lip , looking more serious than tares had ever seen her , its not pretty what they do there .
i understand , lara .
unfortunately , tares did understand , all too well .
if you were going to capture a spellcaster , whether arcane or divine , the only way you could be certain of keeping them a prisoner was to keep them in near constant pain and sleep deprived .
this combination would make it impossible to work magic of any kind .
what sort of guards do they have on the lower level ?
darzan asked .
i dont know for sure , id imagine there would be quite a few .
and theres been some strange rumors going around lara paused briefly , something about some new species .
i really dont know anything for certain .
i just wouldnt be surprised by anything we might see down there or here , everything is way too quiet .
great , darzan said sarcastically , lets just expect the worst shall we ?
an excellent suggestion , tares answered her , ignoring the sarcasm .
taking up his massive mace and shield , tares indicated that lara should lead the way .
darzan stood for a moment watching them , before unsheathing her saber .
as she prepared to follow them , she muttered to herself , i better get well paid for this .
tares chose to ignore the comment , although he did hear it .
lara led them out of the storage room via a door to the east , which opened into a tiny alcove , little more than a closet .
in this room were two sets of tall shelves , one of which contained more rolls of parchment , the other had pouches upon pouches of spell component bags .
almost without thinking lara automatically reached out to take some of the carefully arranged pouches and was stopped by tares , who merely shook his massive bovine head .
lara instructed tares to move the shelf containing the parchment scrolls .
once it was out of the way they could see the stone trap door , with its massive ring pull , set in the floor .
thats it , down there , she whispered , even though this ways not well known i 'd guess that itll be guarded at the bottom , so if you open it then ill go first .
ive got my trusty blowgun she continued holding up the small instrument , a wooden pipe , loaded with darts tipped with a deadly poison .
lara had once been a very successful thief and assassin , a member of the silent hand , one of the kingdoms most powerful guilds .
now , thanks to the intervention of the grand knight , lord michael , lara had left the guild forever .
she was working with tares , as a form of reparation , on behalf of the tears of belenus , lord michaels group of paladins , knights and clerics .
pulling up the heavy stone , tares stood back and allowed lara to go ahead of him down the ladder .
looking down tares saw that it was pitch black with not even the barest glimmer of light .
after lighting their small lantern he indicated darzan should precede him .
once he reached the foot of the ladder the minotaur saw that they were in another small storage room similar to the one on the upper level they had just come from .
lara was already at the door leading out of the room , picking the lock .
where , tares wondered , were all the guards ?
surely , the prison was better guarded than this , even on a festival day ?
he was more certain than ever that they were walking into a trap , but how exactly had that trap been designed ?
hey , tares , stop dreaming lara whispered , im done .
off you go .
lara moved back to let the big minotaur through the door first .
tares stepped out into a long corridor lit by torches at periodic intervals .
the light was sufficient for them to dispense with the lantern and the minotaur carefully packed it away .
directly opposite was a wooden door , closed and probably locked .
from the length of the corridor , it was obvious that the lower level was larger than the upper level , probably extending well under the courtyard above .
to their left , the corridor ended only a few feet away in a t junction .
on the right it extended into darkness .
motioning the two women to follow him tares turned right and moved down the corridor as silently as possible .
their footsteps seemed unnaturally loud to tares in the echoing subterranean silence .
the corridor they had been following came to an end , emptying into yet another long narrow corridor , empty and silent , lit with the periodic torches .
lara ran her little hands over the stone wall and announced that it was an outer wall , representing the limits of the underground section of the prison .
better let me go first , tares , ive got a bad feeling about this , she whispered .
tares merely nodded , he too had a bad feeling about this .
darzan followed closely after lara , letting tares take the more dangerous rear position .
they continued down the corridor for roughly thirty feet , until lara suddenly stopped them at an open doorway .
lying dead in the doorway was one of the prison guards it looked as if his neck had been broken .
next to the dead guard , partially blocking the corridor was another creature with a long thin body , a head like an octopus and wearing what looked like elaborately embroidered wizards robes .
the three looked at each other , the question obvious on their faces .
what is that thing ?
tares whispered , his astonishment plain to hear , belenus have mercy , that creatures not natural .
i guess thats what they were talking about in the guild , lara said slowly , bending down to examine the strange creature .
lara continued , we werent told much , only that the prison had these new guards .
theyre supposed to have some kind of special brain magic , something new that no ones ever seen before .
no one seemed to know where they come from , but apparently the dark one brought these creatures here as some kind of experiment .
what do you mean brain magic ?
darzan asked .
i dont know .
in the guild , they never tell you more than you need to know .
this is all just rumors i heard , not information from the guild leaders , lara answered .
darzan shuddered in undisguised fear .
the dead creature lying at their feet was bad enough to look at the idea that it possessed some kind of brain magic , something that would damage or interfere with your mind , was utterly horrific .
the pirate woman did not want to encounter one of these creatures while it was alive .
wait a minute , darzan said , if this , she paused , searching for the right word and settled for nudging the creature with her foot , thing was employed or recruited or whatever for the prison and its dead and the guard is deadthen obviously there really was a riot ?
laras small face screwed up in profound skepticism , i suppose so but i dont really understand .
after all , the dark ones very , you know , he doesnt let mistakes happen , lara said quietly .
efficient lara , the dark one is very efficient , tares supplied lara with the word she had been struggling to find .
there may well have been a riot , i suppose it is possible and someone evidently killed these guards he continued , but im still certain that this is a trap of some kind .
i believe that someone knows were in here and why .
they may even have known that a riot would occur .
the behavior of the gate guards , even allowing a riot to occur , it all seems highly unusual given that this is undoubtedly the toughest prison in the kingdoms .
lets just keep moving , and hopefully well find out whats really going on soon enough .
leaving the two women to keep watch at the door tares stepped carefully over the guards body into the room , which was obviously one of the many infamous torture chambers .
the long rectangular room had four low tables to lay out unfortunate victims and an archway directly opposite the open door .
moving carefully between the tables the minotaur walked to the archway and peered into the adjoining room .
one small torch illuminated the room showing a single closed door in the back wall .
walking as silently as possible tares moved closer to the closed door and listened carefully , very faintly he could just make out muffled voices coming from the other side .
tares stood for moment thinking it was highly likely that the owners of those voices were the same people who had dispatched the guard and the strange creature .
that would make them potential allies .
on the other hand the voices behind the door could belong to whatever guards , or creatures , that had escaped the obvious battle .
in either case he decided , it would be best to keep the element of surprise on their side .
tares signaled the two women to prepare and then quickly threw the door open , brandishing his heavy mace .
the room was apparently used by someone as an office .
at the back of the room was a long wide desk of polished obsidian and a tall shelf filled with rolls of parchment stood beside it .
in one corner was a large wooden chest , easily three feet across and close to four feet deep .
sitting on the floor beside the chest was a bizarre creature that looked like a cross between a troll and an ogre , if such were possible .
beside the creature , rummaging through the open chest was a dark haired man with the bulging muscles of a warrior .
another man , with brown shaggy hair stood at the shelves , examining the rolls of parchment carefully .
seated at the desk , however , were two people the minotaur had never expected to see in diablis , or together for that matter .
nikolai , the necromancer of bhaal who tares had encountered while on duty in the northern badlands and sitting right beside him was prince einreich of saxenburg .
tares had not known that either of them was incarcerated in diablis prison and he could not begin to understand what they were doing sitting together so calmly .
right on time , nikolai drawled mockingly , i was almost starting to doubt you tares but i knew belenus would guide you here .
tares growled but he lowered his weapon .
the necromancer , a devotee of the blood god bhaal , was an offence to everything the minotaur held dear but he knew that lord michael held nikolai in very high esteem .
although what reason lord michael had for his high opinion of the mage tares could not begin to imagine .
how dare you ?
the name of the crying god is nothing but a blasphemy on your lips necromancer , tares muttered , i havent come for you anyway , i came for yes , yes i know , nikolai interrupted tares quickly , later well talk .
prince einreich you would know , he continued , indicating slade , though he prefers slade now , the muscle man is wulfstan , a royal guard of saxenburg , the little wizard , this said with a sneer , is roulibard and on the floor is trunk .
now that were all here we can finish this up and take the rest of the prison .
nikolai , i think youd better explain whats going on , slade spoke with quiet authority .
double cross the half orc guard approached warily , the governor of the prison was infamous for his bad temper , even when he was being given good news .
how the mercurial governor would take this news the half orc had no idea .
opening the door the guard found the governor seated at his desk , his head bowed , writing on some parchment .
in the corner of the large office was another man , wearing a heavy cowl , standing with his back to the door , staring out the window .
theyre in there , sir , the half orc said nervously .
who did they send ?
the cowled man asked without turning from the window .
a minotaur , a halfling and the pirate .
excellent , the governors voice was its usual dry rasp , you may go .
with relief , the guard left , carefully closing the door behind him .
there , the cowled man said , i told you they would send someone for him , there was a definite satisfaction in his voice .
i never doubted that , the governor replied , still not looking up from his work , its working in the dark that i dont like .
this seems like such a convoluted method of killing someone .
the dark one has his reasons , the cowled man managed to make his answer seem almost like a threat .
i realize that , but surely as governor of this institution i should be entitled to know more of his plans than i currently do , i have , after all , sacrificed some of my best guards to this elaborate scheme .
surely you do not dispute the dark ones right to make such decisions , the cowled man turned towards the desk as he spoke .
the governor looked up at him but the mans face was completely hidden by the heavy cowl .
this lieutenant was almost as elusive as the dark one himself .
youre not threatening me , are you ?
the governor asked , more annoyed than angry .
as long as you do as youre told you have no reason to be threatened , he paused briefly to give his words weight and then continued , luca , luca this is really a very simple plan , the reasons behind it are , however , none of your business .
now , i trust that i can leave the final stages in your very capable hands .
naturally , luca was careful to let none of his growing anger show in his voice .
excellent .
dont bother getting up , i 'll see myself out .
with an overly dramatic swirl of his coat , the cowled man spoke the words of the spell and vanished , leaving only a vaguely moldy smell behind .
luca shook his head briefly and tried to concentrate on his work , an impossibility given his situation .
the dark one was not someone to be crossed lightly yet luca had no choice in the matter .
lord nexus orders took priority over everything .
fortunately , the very nature of the dark ones scheme provided luca the opportunity he would require to obey his other master .
despite his lack of choice in this matter of the prisoner known as trunk , luca found that it still galled him that after so many years of apparently faithful service to the dark one he was not trusted enough to be told why this strange assassination had to take place and why it had to be done in such an odd manner .
worse was being forced to take second hand orders from one of the dark ones lieutenants , a wizard obviously , yet luca did not know so much as his name .
luca felt a sudden thrill of fear .
was it possible that the dark one knew of his impending betrayal ?
did his overlord already know that he had for many years served two masters ?
could that be the reason for this strange and elaborate plan , or the lieutenants threatening demeanor ?
he felt his heart pounding in his chest .
if his overlord and employer knew of luca 's previous duplicity and his current plan then it was all over .
there was nothing he could say to stop the dark one from exacting a terrible and definitive punishment .
perhaps , luca thought to himself , it would be better to go ahead with the dark ones plan .
although if he did lord nexus would surely find out and the mage was the only person in the kingdoms that even the dark one feared .
the governor felt utterly trapped , it did not matter which of his masters he obeyed he faced almost certain death from the other and it would not be a pleasant death .
luca eventually decided , he would go ahead with nexus plan .
the dark one would certainly torture him before killing him but nexus would make his death last for weeks .
he would not betray the mage the prisoners would be helped to escape .
having made his decision luca looked down at the paperwork in front of him , but the words swam on the page and he was not surprised to see that his hand shook slightly .
he was trapped like a rat in a cage , forced to serve two masters with the threat of death from one or the other of them hanging over his head constantly .
why , he wondered , had he ever allowed himself to be in this position ?
luca leaned down and pulled from his desk draw a dusty bottle of mead despite the early morning hour he felt the need of the strong , soothing alcohol .
he poured a generous measure of mead into a plain cup and walked to the window .
it had been his greed and fear that had gotten him into this mess .
greed and fear had ruled his life and now would likely cause his death .
he had been a very young man , no more than seventeen summers , when the dark one and his brutal armies had first swept across ixlan .
he had seen what the army did to anyone who opposed them and he was afraid of suffering the torture and death that rebellion earned .
fortunately he had been a very clever young man he had seen quickly that obedience and being useful would be his only hope for survival .
luca had set about being very obedient , looking always for an opportunity to be useful to his new overlord .
eventually , as luca had known it would , the chance to serve the dark one was presented to him and he had taken it eagerly .
he had been in the dark ones employ for almost two years when he had first been approached by lord nexus .
even then the mage had a fearsome reputation but nexus had not threatened the young luca , he had offered him gold , huge amounts of gold and all the mage wanted in return for the gold was information .
to his greedy heart it had seemed like a dream come true and it had appealed to his vanity he would be the eyes and ears of the kingdoms most powerful mage .
luca had not even stopped to think , he had immediately accepted the offer .
now , nearly thirty years later luca knew better , he was not the mages only spy nor was the gold really compensation for the numerous times he had put his life in danger in order to serve both the dark one and lord nexus .
it had taken many years but luca had come to learn that he was neither special nor was he indispensible .
he was nothing more than a tool used by far more powerful men .
soon he would have to leave the office and address his guards .
no doubt they were wondering why they had been held back from stopping the escape attempt , why even now they were not hunting down those few prisoners who had escaped their blades .
he would have to tell them something but he had no idea what he would say .
even though they knew nothing of the dark ones plan they would question any orders that allowed prisoners to escape .
the original plan given to luca by the dark one was simple .
his overlord had been certain that the grand knight , lord michael , would send someone to try and rescue the prisoner .
lucas orders had been to allow the rescuing knights entrance to the complex and then have them all killed , prisoners and rescuers alike .
nexuss plan was even simpler he merely had to follow the dark ones plan until the end .
then when the time came to eliminate the prisoners luca was to let them escape instead .
he had already , at great risk to himself , personally smuggled in nikolai , the mages protg to assist in the prison break .
he had also reduced the number of guards by giving them leave to attend the festival .
the problem now was what to do with those guards still on duty .
luca swallowed the remaining mead in one gulp .
it really didnt matter what he told the guards , they would report his every word to the dark one .
the moment had come when his treachery could no longer be concealed .
his only chance was to try and disappear .
he needed an excuse that would keep the guards occupied long enough for the prisoners to escape and for him to find a way out of ixlan .
perhaps if he could escape to the badlands he might live long enough to enjoy the gold hed been paid over the years .
nervously licking his lips he poured another generous serving of mead into his cup .
the men he employed as guards were not overly endowed with intelligence , luca knew , but neither were they stupid .
if he gave an order for them to leave the prison without having recaptured the escapees they would , undoubtedly , wonder why .
the men already knew about the strangers , knew the dark one had made some plan concerning the prisoners .
he would simply have to order the men to lay an ambush for the prisoners near the main doors and hope that the escapees were smart enough to avoid being captured and killed .
it would not stand up to the scrutiny of the dark one or nexus but luca could see no other option .
if the plan should go wrong then he would spend the remainder of his life running from both his masters .
explanations the room was really not big enough to accommodate eight people .
nikolai had insisted , however , that his explanations be given behind closed doors in case there were any guards nearby .
while they had been able to dispatch all the guards they had come across they could not guarantee there were not more waiting for them .
nikolai knew he would have to give his explanation quickly and get on the move once again .
wulfstan closed the enormous chest and used it as a seat , moving close to the wall to allow tares to sit next to him .
lara perched on the floor next to trunk , while darzan leaned against the closed door and roulibard sat on the edge of the desk .
all , especially slade , were looking expectantly at nikolai .
nikolai tried to gather his thoughts he was , quite simply , unsure how much to tell the others .
without an explanation of some kind slade would never trust him enough to continue travelling with him , yet too much information now could jeopardize nikolai 's entire mission .
this is rather difficult , he began with a small sigh , im in an awkward position with all due respect prince tares interrupted nikolai .
slade , just slade , slade cut in quickly .
i apologize , slade but now is perhaps not the best time for the necromancer to explain whatever evil schemes he is up to .
i do not wish to sound rude but we are in the midst of attempting a prison break .
tares if youd shut up for longer than five seconds i 'll be able to explain to you why none of that matters .
nikolai spoke with more heat than he had intended .
he rarely , if ever , lost control .
anger was a poor tool , rage even worse nikolai preferred cool , calm logic but something about the minotaur cleric seemed to bring out the worst in him .
look , tares is it ?
slade asked .
tares nodded his large , horned head gravely .
tares , were all obviously in an slade paused , looking for the right word , unusual situation here .
i realize that this probably isnt the best time but i want to hear nikolais explanations , and to be honest im exhausted and i could use a little rest , which nikolais tale will give us , before we go any further .
of course your tares caught himself in time , slade .
we will listen to what the necromancer has to say if such is your wish .
i do wish .
now nikolai , you better start talking .
nikolai could see that whatever tentative trust had been building between slade and himself had been partially eroded , thanks to tares .
i was captured in the north , in the badlands to be precise .
i was travelling there , under orders , with lord michael strong , nikolai said slowly .
you lie , necromancer , tares began .
its true , tares , surprisingly the interruption came from lara .
i was there , she looked at nikolai suspiciously , but that was months ago .
true , nikolai continued smoothly even though he was actually quite taken aback .
he had been unaware of this little halfling and wondered just how much she knew .
but what i learned in the badlands then remains relevant now .
lord michael and i discovered evidence that suggests a secret army is being formed .
who is behind this or why we were unable to discover .
however , i did find out two interesting pieces of information , both of which involved what i believe to be assassination plots .
the first , he paused and looked at slade , involved your father , high king erich .
unfortunately i was unable to find out much more than the fact that someone had ordered erich killed .
slade could feel the blood drain from his face , his heart was pounding and a cold sweat broke out on his brow .
this then was what the dream had been about , his father , his king and liege lord was being stalked by an unknown assassin .
slowly slade turned to face wulfstan .
for the first time since slade had recognized the warrior it occurred to him to wonder exactly what one of his fathers royal bodyguards was doing behind bars in ixlans most vicious prison .
you , slade spoke slowly , his fear for his father pounding heavily in his blood , you shouldve been with him .
youre his bodyguard , one of them anyway , slades innate sense of fairness forced him to make that qualification .
his love of his father , however , drove him to his feet without his even being aware of it .
like a man in a dream or a nightmare , slade walked over to the big warrior .
grabbing hold of the front of wulfstans shirt in his fist he pulled his one time friend to his feet .
what happened wulfstan ?
slade was shouting into wulfstan 's face , all thoughts of where he was or the need for silence , completely forgotten in his fear and anger .
wheres my father ?
all right , all right , wulfstan shouted back , i failed .
is that what you want to hear ?
keep your voices down , someone hissed .
what exactly does that mean ?
slade asked , lowering his voice to a whisper as he remembered where they were .
he abruptly let go of wulfstan 's shirt .
wulfstan stepped back but was brought up short by the large chest .
the warrior ran both hands through his thick , black hair and sat down heavily on the chest .
resting his arms on his knees , wulfstan put his head in his hands and gave a long , drawn out sigh of pure frustration , guilt and grief .
when he began to speak his voice was so low they all had to strain to hear him .
i was with high king erich .
he had received an invitation to lashandra .
we travelled overland from anglia to evemur and then took to the rivers .
we were almost to the border .
wulfstan stopped , and for a moment , it seemed as if he would not go on .
by then we were deep in the dark wood .
there was only myself and three other guards .
i knew it wouldnt be enough , i had wanted king erich to bring more guards or a contingent of knights but he just said the mission was too important and the need for secrecy too great .
so we went , just the five of us .
we stopped for the night i went to get some wood for a fire .
i shouldnt have gone .
i should never have left his side .
i heard yelling , swords .
i rushed back as quickly as i could , i swear i did , he looked up , obviously appealing to slade , silently begging the former crown prince to believe him .
it was too late .
i got back to our camp .
the other guards were all dead .
i dont know where king erich was , or what might have happened to him .
i tried to fight but there were just too many of them .
they overpowered me and i dont know why they didnt just kill me .
for a while i guess i was unconscious , when i came to i was in shackles and on my way here .
you didnt see my fathers body ?
slade asked , grabbing onto the only shred of hope wulfstans tale seemed to offer .
the warrior merely shook his head , then opened his mouth to speak , thought better of it and closed it again .
he knew there was nothing he could say he had failed in his duty and that failure may well have brought about the death of slades father .
for wulfstan , whose own father had died when he was just a baby , it was a bitter knowledge , for he had loved high king erich , just as if he had been his own father .
when ?
when did this happen ?
slade asked after a long silence .
almost a month ago , i guess .
if todays the sun ascension that is .
wulfstan replied .
he knew the sun ascension festival marked the shortest day of the year , when winter was at its darkest .
the attack on king erich had occurred right at the end of the fall season , when the world turned red and gold and the falling leaves blanketed the ground , although this far north none of the seasons were as clearly defined as they were in the central kingdoms .
three months ago was when i was arrested .
slade repeated , thinking things through .
the attack upon his father had then occurred two months later .
turning to nikolai he said , you were captured about the same time you said ?
it was a statement more than a question .
nikolai never hesitated , he simply nodded agreement .
slade frowned slightly , looking at nothing in particular , still thinking .
there was a pattern here , just beyond his reach , a pattern that might be terribly important .
either way it was time to get out of diablis and back to saxenburg .
slade , i , i wulfstan began .
i dont want to hear it , slade cut him off and stood shaking his head , lets just get out of here .
i agree , however , i feel i should warn you , tares interjected gravely , i believe this entire prison break is a trap , tares then went on to explain the incredible ease with which he and the others had penetrated the prison .
when tares had finished slade swore softly .
the silent hand which brings me to the second piece of information lord michael and i were able to uncover , nikolai said quietly .
all at once slade was sure he understood .
that was the pattern .
he was the second target .
i was the intended target of the second assassination , slade said slowly .
suddenly nikolai saw his chance .
this was his opportunity to convince the others to travel with him , for he knew now that he would need their help , he would not be able to fulfill his mission alone .
i 'm afraid so .
nikolai looked briefly at tares before continuing , thats why i said earlier the prison break is irrelevant .
you were quite right the whole thing is a trap .
whoever ordered the deaths of king erich and slade obviously wanted the executions to look both separate and accidental .
my fear is that those two deaths were most likely just the beginning .
that information , together with the growing rumors of a secret army does not bode well for the safety of the kingdoms .
that you were sent here , tares , a logical choice on lord michael 's behalf , shows that whoever is behind all of this knows the tears of belenus very well .
your death in the prison break would then also be seen as an unfortunate accident , and mostly of your own doing for interfering with ixlan politics .
in so doing someone manages to eliminate virtually everyone who knows anything about this .
thats why we have to get out of here and work together to stop this .
the huge minotaur looked at nikolai , his suspicion written openly on his bovine face .
tares had been shocked by the revelation that lord michael had actually worked , hand in hand , with the necromancer .
although tares admitted to himself , realistically he should not have been surprised .
lord michael , after many years as head of the tears of belenus , had begun to realize that the world needed balance .
that for the pendulum to sway too far in either direction was the greatest evil of all .
nikolais remarks indicated that the necromancer felt the same way .
still , tares distrust of nikolai , and those like him , who practiced a magic so closely entwined with death and dying , ran deep and he would continue to watch the necromancer closely .
it was wulfstan who broke the heavy silence following nikolai 's revelations with a deep snort of disbelief .
everyone turned to look at the warrior , and slade noticed with a sense of shame , the shiny streaks of tears on wulfstan 's face .
come on people , wulfstan spoke derisively , are we really going to take the word of a necromancer ?
i mean , slade , you left court to become a druid .
you , tares , youre a cleric of belenus .
necromancers are all evil , all perverse and you all know it .
unconsciously wulfstan 's voice rose as he continued , you cant seriously tell me were going to take the word of this , this thing .
wake up !
hes the one behind the trap , hell get us all killed , thats what they do .
typical soldier , all muscle and no brain , nikolai said sneeringly , i do not deny my allegiance to bhaal .
i see no reason why i should .
necromancy , in its way , is the most natural magic of all and your reaction speaks only to your fear .
probably of all the forms of magic , druidic as well .
dont trust what you havent the intelligence to understand , isnt that right ?
you , and all your kind , make me sick .
im no friend to belenus , or any of his clerics , but sometimes we end up on the same side .
oh , right .
and were just supposed to believe you because you say so .
silly me , i shouldve seen that straight away , wulfstan shot back sarcastically .
listen you muscle bound idiot nikolais telling the truth , once again the unexpected interruption came from lara .
when everyone swung around to look at her the halfling woman suddenly felt profoundly uncomfortable .
the tension level in the room was incredibly high and now lara had everyone staring at her .
without thinking she stepped back , almost tripping over trunk 's large feet .
the huge ogre troll reached out gently and steadied her , leaving one enormous hand resting gently on her shoulder .
encouraged by this show of support lara began to explain what she knew .
i used to work for the silent hand , lara stopped when she saw the others looking at her with revulsion .
she should have realized that declaring her previous profession as a thief and assassin now might not be the best timing , given everything that had just been said .
i swear i 'm clean now , she continued quickly , tares will tell you .
its true .
lara has left the guild she works now for lord michael .
that is why we are together .
tares said .
trunk continued to gently rub lara 's shoulder , comforting her with his heavy touch .
lara , im sorry , slade 's voice was gentle , i didnt mean to frighten you or make you uncomfortable .
im just upset and tired , thats all .
please , tell me what you know .
i wasnt frightened , lara said hurriedly , anyway , as i said , i used to work for the silent hand , thats how come i ended up in the northern badlands .
i was supposed to knock off , tares growled under his breath at her choice of words , which she quickly modified , i mean my assignment was to assassinate lord michael .
thats how i met him , hes a lot cleverer than he looks you know , she added with an ingenuous grin , he had me figured from the get go .
lara paused , remembering .
the grand knight lord michael had meant nothing more than a name to her at first .
it was just an assignment like so many others no reason , no explanation , only an instruction to make it look like an accident .
lara had been in the guild for a long time and was used to following orders without question .
she had begun as she always did , by following lord michael around , ingratiating herself into his life to figure out the best and easiest way of carrying out her assignment .
lara had never expected to have her whole life turned upside down .
yet in michael , and lara always called him michael in her mind , she saw a good man .
as one of the top assassins in the guild , lara had found that most of her victims were usually no better than those who hired her .
michael however , was different .
what had changed laras life , beyond all recognition , was that michael cared .
not just for his subordinates or even for the people like him michael cared about everyone he came across , including her .
after a while lara had found herself watching michael , not to gather information but simply watching him and everything she saw in michael she liked .
when she had finally gone to him and tearfully confessed her true profession and reason for being there , michael had just smiled and told her that he had known .
he had offered her a chance at redemption , a chance for a better life and also promised to protect her from the guild .
lara had joyfully jumped at the chance .
she knew she was a bit irresponsible , tares was always telling her that , but lara also knew that michael had shown her a better way and she had vowed never to let him down .
as i was saying , i was sent north but i know i wasnt the only one who was sent out .
i dont know exactly how many others there were but from the talk going around i 'd say there were at least four other targets besides michael , sorry lord michael , lara corrected herself with a quick , apologetic look at tares , and all the assignments came from the same buyer .
seeing slightly blank looks on their faces lara explained , assignment is someone were hired to kill , the buyers whoever hired the guild .
you do understand what i 'm talking about ?
lara asked as the others continued to stare .
sorry , lara , yes we understand , its just the implications are a bit slade trailed off as the full horror of lara 's story hit him .
that means two more , nikolai said quietly .
there was a long pause as each one of them tried to absorb laras unexpected information .
although the necromancer already knew a lot of what lara had just told them , he had not known the exact number of targets .
two more at least , tares qualified .
once again they all fell silent , each preoccupied with their own thoughts .
tares suspected he knew the identity of at least one of the other targets .
it has to be my sister and brother , i was one target , my father the other .
lord michael , obviously someone is planning on destroying saxenburg .
despite the fact that slade had relinquished his position as a prince of saxenburg , it was still his home .
more than that , it was a threat to his family and regardless of what he thought of court life , he loved his family dearly .
wulfstan 's face went dead white at slade 's pronouncement .
he felt his heart constrict painfully in his chest as he was forced to admit the logic of slade 's reasoning .
his blood was pounding in his ears , beating out a dreadful tattoo of pure fear .
his grief and guilt at his failure to protect high king erich seemed trivial , petty emotions compared with the heart rending fear and impotence gripping him now .
ursula .
wulfstan knew that soon , if it had not already happened , ursula would be leaving for the black lotus to finish her formal training with solomon .
wulfstan also knew that one of the conditions of her being accepted as a warrior monk in the famous monastery was that she must make the ritual journey there alone , and unarmed .
thinking of her alone , on the roads , possibly a target of the kingdoms most deadly assassins , wulfstans fear for her was making it hard for him to breathe .
finally the gripping , electric fear began to pass leaving white hot rage in its wake .
if they had hurt ursula , harmed so much as a hair on her head they would pay , and pay dearly .
wulfstan 's hands were clenched so tightly that the knuckles had turned white .
his mind was filled with brutal images of stabbing , hurting , and killing .
all he could think about was finding whoever was behind this and tearing them apart with his bare hands .
vengeance .
wulfstan vowed he would work with anyone , even the evil necromancer if he had to , in order to get vengeance .
ursulas death and wulfstan was suddenly certain that she must be dead , would be repaid in rivers of blood , no matter what he had to do to achieve that .
dont you agree wulfstan ?
slade was speaking to him but through the filter of his rage wulfstan found it hard to concentrate .
i 'm , what ?
wulfstan sounded drunk , even to his own ears , what did you say ?
i said it has to be the dark one behind this , first he takes ixlan and now saxenburg , slade repeated .
whatever .
i dont care who it was .
theyll die for what theyve done , wulfstan snarled .
slade was too preoccupied with his own thoughts to notice wulfstan 's rage .
nikolai , however , was watching the bodyguard closely .
although nikolai did not agree with slade 's reasoning , he would not question it if it meant slade was willing to work together .
another way out either way weve got to get out of here and find out whats going on .
the dark one will not get away with trying to destroy my family .
i hope youll all help me , slade waited until he received affirmations from the rest of the group .
thank you .
now , lets go .
well take whatever might be useful , slade instructed , handing wulfstan a large , leather backpack , and see if we can find another way out on this level .
logically there must be one somewhere .
there is another way out , lara cut in , but we have to get upstairs first and go down from there .
tares opened his mouth to question lara but eventually decided again it , even though the minotaur cleric knew , all too well , that the halfling woman loved adventure and exploring above all else .
it was therefore quite in character for lara to lead them on a merry chase , just for the chance to explore the prison .
however , his own mission was still paramount in his mind and exploring would give him the opportunity needed to fulfill it .
after that , given everything he had just heard tares was certain that lord michael strong would want him to lend his assistance to slade and the others to prevent a military takeover of saxenburg .
all right then , slade said , lead the way lara .
lara took the lead followed by the others with nikolai and tares lingering slightly to take up the rear position .
as the halfling woman led the group unerringly through a veritable maze of corridors in the silent underground prison , the necromancer and the minotaur fell behind in order to speak privately .
you know where he is ?
tares whispered to nikolai .
with a secretive smile on his sensual lips , the necromancer nodded , then motioning the cleric to bend down nikolai whispered directly into the minotaurs ear .
youre certain ?
tares spoke aloud in his surprise , causing darzan to look back at them both questioningly .
the necromancer nodded briefly once more and then hurried ahead to catch up with the rest of the group .
tares continued to lag behind mulling over what the necromancer had revealed .
if the mage was telling the truth , and tares admitted to himself , nikolai probably would not lie to him about that , then it certainly explained a lot of the contradictory information the minotaur cleric had so far uncovered .
blindly following the others , tares felt a sudden despair .
this information must be brought to lord michaels attention as soon as possible .
there was nothing that tares himself could do to aid this situation , only lord michael had sufficient power to help .
hurrying forward , the minotaur made a mental note to talk to lara at the first opportunity , to let her know their primary mission , at least , had been completed .
their new mission , tares believed , now lay with slade .
the minotaur wondered how the necromancers information fitted into the pattern that slade had discerned .
tares was reluctantly coming to the conclusion that nikolai was correct there was a lot more going on than was readily apparent .
he was so deep in thought that he failed to notice that the group had come to a complete halt until he almost walked straight into darzan .
he apologized gravely to the pirate woman and stepped to one side .
it seemed that lara had led them to a rarely used corridor in the eastern part of the prison .
looking around tares noticed there were few torches burning , making it quite a bit darker than the previous corridors .
this confirmed his suspicion that they were in a little used section of the prison .
peering over darzan 's shoulder the minotaur tried to locate lara but could not see her in the dim lighting .
moving quietly tares walked past darzan till he reached wulfstan 's side .
what is going on ?
tares whispered to wulfstan .
some kind of trap , apparently , wulfstan replied in his normal speaking voice .
when nikolai turned back to glare at him wulfstan simply shrugged , saying no ones around , weve already killed all the guards on this level .
wonderful .
nikolai hissed in a caustic whisper , in that case definitely announce our presence down here to anyone who might be listening .
you obviously havent got enough to do and need a challenge .
listen you , you have no right to try and tell me what to do .
i happen to be a bodyguard to the royal house of saxenburg and yes .
we all know how well that turned out , dont we .
thank bhaal im not a member of the royal house , who knows how long i 'd live ...
i should kill you where you stand for that , wulfstan 's fury sprang from his deep sense of guilt and at having his fault pointed out so baldly by a stranger .
moreover , a stranger wulfstan was coming to intensely dislike and did not trust .
if you two dont shut up i 'll kill both of you where you stand , slade 's anger obvious even in a whisper .
got it , laras announcement cut through the rapidly developing argument , whos going first ?
lara indicated the steep and narrow stone staircase behind the door .
whats up there ?
slade asked lara as he peered up into the darkness .
it should be a big storeroom , you know , where they keep all the prisoners stuff until theyve had a chance to go through it .
slade hoped she was right they could do with some better supplies .
apart from lara , tares and darzan , who had come into the prison fully equipped , slade and wulfstan carried only arms and equipment purloined from the dead guards .
if it had not been for trunk 's incredible natural strength they would never have made it this far .
ill go first , slade said and began heading up the steep set of stairs before anyone else had the chance .
tares lingered behind , taking advantage of the opportunity to inform lara of the information he had received from nikolai .
this means , lara , the minotaur finished gently , that you have completed your mission for lord michael .
you may go home now if you wish .
i dont think so , lara replied , her impish face unusually serious , i promised michael i 'd see this all the way through .
besides , she added , i think slade will need my help .
oh , and yours too tares .
and anyway , dont you think we should keep an eye on nikolai ?
yes , lara , i do , tares answered gravely , and i thank you for your decision to stay .
however , you must take this mission as seriously as you undertook your previous mission .
do you understand ?
yes tares .
look i know i can be a little irresponsible sometimes but i wont let you or michael down .
and i dont know what nikolai might be up to but i dont trust him , not completely , anyway , she said before following wulfstan up the narrow staircase .
tares silently followed lara up the stairs .
although he would not have thought it possible , the minotaur found he was actually pleased that lara had elected to stay and help the former prince .
not only because it demonstrated a growing sense of responsibility in the halfling woman but also because in some way that the minotaur was unable to completely define , laras presence was unnerving to the necromancer .
the halfling woman was , or rather had been , privy to a world completely unknown to tares .
hopefully that knowledge would give lara a perspective on nikolai that the minotaur might otherwise miss .
despite the necromancers apparent desire to help slade tares still felt uneasy about his role in the shadowy events that seemed to be unfolding .
slade opened the door at the top of the staircase and walked into a room that was definitely not a storeroom .
two well stuffed chairs were arranged in front of a large stone fireplace set in one wall of the room .
although , judging from how clean it was the fireplace was probably a relatively new addition to the room .
the back of the room had two large windows that looked out over the courtyard of the prison complex .
on the opposite wall , set in the centre , was another door , with large bookcases on either side of the door .
to slade 's right was a large , marble desk with a comfortable looking chair and in the centre of the room stood a small table with two intricately carved wooden chairs either side of it , both facing towards the windows .
this room had to belong to the governor no one else in diablis prison would have such elaborate accommodations .
looking at the scrolls and papers on the bookcases slade wondered what clues might be found if they had the time to search this room .
lots probably .
slade spun around to see roulibard standing at his elbow .
what did you say ?
slade questioned the young wizard .
you were talking about possible clues , i just said theres likely to be lots .
the question is do we have the time .
i didnt say anything , slade began .
time for what ?
wulfstan asked , as he entered the room , trunk on his heels .
time to properly search this room , go through all those papers .
roulibard answered , gesturing towards the shelves .
in the middle of trying to escape from the kingdoms most inescapable prison you want to search through all this ?
wulfstan asked incredulously gesturing around the room .
i didnt say i wanted to , roulibard began heatedly , flushing under wulfstans derisive tone , i said slade wanted to .
although personally i do think its a good idea .
you should know your enemy .
slade , come on , wulfstan turned toward slade in appeal .
actually , nikolai interrupted , as he entered the room , i think youre both right .
someone probably should search through all this stuff however , we can not ignore the fact that we are not only in the midst of a prison break but one intended to kill us all at the last moment in order to make it look like an accident .
i thought you said slade was the intended target , wulfstan said suspiciously .
wulfstan , please use your brains for once , nikolai began , i assume that you do have some .
forget that , slade cut in before wulfstan could respond , i thought lara said this was a storeroom .
turning he saw lara standing against the now closed and virtually invisible door , her pixie face blank with surprise .
it should be a storeroom , slade , i dont get it , she moved over to the windows which looked out over the courtyard and began running her tiny hands along the wall , listening intently at the same time .
coming to the connecting door lara opened it to reveal what could only have been luca 's bedroom .
getting down on her hands and knees , she searched under the bed before nodding her head , her long ponytail flying behind her .
yep , this is it , lara said standing up , obviously they moved stuff around but its still the same place .
under the bed is a hidden staircase which leads straight out of the prison , through a long tunnel and comes out in a set of underground caves near the coastline .
you are absolutely certain of this lara ?
tares questioned her gravely .
absolutely bultares , just climb down there and away we go .
whats the tunnel used for ?
wulfstan asked .
well you know that back in the old days this building used to be the palace right ?
seeing their questioning looks lara continued , you didnt know that ?
i suppose im not surprised , it was a long time ago .
anyway , before the dark one took over ixlan this building was originally the old kings palace .
obviously theyve modified it a bit since then but a lot of stuff from the old palace days that they couldnt immediately use was left over and the dark one just left it here and built the prison around it .
i suppose it was meant to be an insult to the old regime .
anyway , the main room in the centre , back when it had a roof , was the old kings throne room where hed receive official visitors and hold court .
thats not really important now though , the important bit for us is that like all kings he was a little bit paranoid so he had this bolt hole built , just in case of emergencies .
how do you know all this lara ?
slade asked .
i had a job here once when king eldritch was still on the throne , lara mumbled her reply , a slight blush tinting her cheeks .
wait a minute , wulfstan said , if this place used to be the palace then where does the dark one live ?
no one knows for sure , nikolai answered , looking speculatively at lara , there are rumors but all anyone actually knows is that he definitely does not live here on the main island .
unless you know otherwise lara ?
me ?
i dont know anything about him , i barely like saying his name , lara answered but she could tell by the look on his face that nikolai , at least , did not believe a word she said .
slade said , i think if were that close to getting out we probably can spare a little bit of time and there is bound to be important information here .
wulfstan , why dont you and tares keep your ears open at the door while the rest of us give this place a quick going over .
there may be information about the assassinations and we might be able to find out where they stored our belongings .
battling the guards krolk and his men had been in position for over an hour .
the burly half orc had stationed two guards as lookouts in the corridor while the rest of his men waited with him in the elite guards barracks .
the two guards outside would warn him when the prisoners made their appearance and then he and his men would move in for the kill .
an ambush of the prisoners would be easier than trying to track them down .
at least , that was how the governor had explained it to krolk .
at the time , it seemed to make sense .
after more than an hour of waiting though , the half orc was beginning to have doubts .
although krolk was not overly endowed with intelligence he was an excellent prison guard and it seemed odd to him to wait for the prisoners when there was even a small chance that they might escape .
why lay an ambush for weakened , easy to kill prey , he wondered ?
furthermore he also knew , for he had delivered the news to the governor personally , that there were strangers in the prison .
strangers who had obviously come to help one of the prisoners escape .
the half orc guard was still contemplating this problem , pushing his brain to its limits , when one of the corridor guards came in , making his way to the back of the room where krolk stood waiting .
boss , deres someone in da big bosses room , the guard reported .
krolk frowned , no one should be in the governors office and there was no way that someone could have gotten in without passing his guards .
do ya know who it is , mebbe its the boss ?
krolk asked hopefully .
i dunno , it dont sound like that .
like whos in theres skulkin round , bein real quiet .
krolk frowned again he simply did not know what to do .
it had to be the strangers in there , maybe along with some of the prisoners as well .
although how they could have gotten in there he had no idea .
unfortunately , the governors orders had been specific they were to wait here and ambush the prisoners .
krolk put his hands to his temple and gave a loud , grunting squeal of utter frustration .
the stupid humans orders gave the half orc no options but to stand here and wait , while whoever was across the hall did who knows what , being quiet and sneaky .
quiet and sneaky .
that gave him an idea .
if he and his men could make enough noise in here then krolk was sure whoever was in the governors office would surely come to investigate .
that way krolk and his men would still be obeying orders by not leaving the room and if it was the prisoners across the hall then they would soon meet their end and the governor would surely give him and his men a suitable reward .
an ugly smile spread across krolk 's face as he instructed his guards to start making some noise , a lot of noise .
immediately krolk and all the guards set up a cacophony of grunts , groans , and a mixture of common and orcish profanity .
with eleven guards in the room , all obeying the half orcs orders , the noise level grew so loud that the remaining guard in the corridor , rajalk , second in command of the prison guards , opened the door to find out what was happening .
rajalk stood in the doorway observing his fellow guards , all making bizarre noises , and wondered if they had all lost their minds .
with the noise level so high it is little wonder that rajalk never heard the door to the governors study open , nor did he hear lara slip past wulfstan and tares into the corridor .
lara moved silently into position , armed with her blowgun filled with its poisonous darts .
once she was behind rajalk she had an unobstructed shot to the back of the big orcs neck .
the other guards inside the room were so intent on their task that they were paying rajalk no attention .
that is until he fell , almost gracefully , face first onto the floor , laras poisoned dart embedded firmly in his meaty neck right where the skull attached to the spine .
krolk watched rajalk 's fall in puzzled bewilderment , his large piggish head tilted slightly .
then his eyes fell on the feathered end of the dart sticking out of the back of rajalk 's neck and the half orc immediately understood what had happened .
looking up krolk met the unflinching gaze of a halfling female , blowgun still in her mouth .
the half orc guard knew immediately that this was no prisoner .
therefore she must be one of the strangers in the prison and the governor would definitely reward krolk if he could take care of these troublemakers .
they would pay for rajalks death and for freeing the prisoners , the half orc thought to himself .
not one of them would get out of here alive .
get her , now , he yelled to the rest of his guards , who were still staring stupidly at their fallen comrade uncomprehendingly .
at krolks order the guards began to run for the door , determined to kill the halfling woman and extract revenge for rajalk .
lara stood her ground , waiting patiently with the blowgun still at her lips while the guards pushed towards the door .
thinking far more quickly than the slow witted orc guards , lara knew that the doorway would admit only one of them at a time .
orcs were not known for their slender physiques , that fact and the corridor itself presented her with plenty of opportunities to take out the guards .
although it was wider than the doorway the corridor was still an extremely cramped area for hand to hand combat .
for lara , though this particular battlefield was an assassins dream come true .
all the halfling woman had to do was wait for the perfect shot and pick off as many as she could , secure in the knowledge that more experienced fighters were only a moment away , ready to come to her aid if she needed it .
two guards reached the doorway at the same time , their broad shoulders connecting as they each tried to get through the door first .
the two orcs pushed and shoved at each other trying to get through the door , while grunting at each other in their native tongue .
the delay gave lara another clear shot and the halfling woman watched , with immense satisfaction as the dart found its mark in the side of the orcs neck .
for a few seconds the guard merely stood , hand raised to the side of his neck , as if to swat away an insect , and then he too fell , face forward into the corridor .
the second guard roared his defiance at lara .
as he went to step over the corpse of his fellow guard , his feet however , caught on the fallen guards belt and he staggered , trying to regain his balance against the press of the other guards behind him and the two fallen guards at his feet .
lara was able to get another shot at the approaching guard , but his ungainly tread and unsteadiness meant that the dart missed its mark , the tip of the dart merely grazing the thick skin on his left arm .
nowhere near enough , lara knew , to kill , and not even enough to incapacitate .
tares , wulfstan , i could use a hand out here , lara called as the guard continued his progress .
putting the blowgun away in its holder on her belt , lara backed up as far as possible and pulled out her wickedly sharp dagger .
the blade itself was slightly curved with a razor edge honed on both sides and in experienced hands like lara 's the weapon was deadly .
bracing herself against the wall the halfling woman waited until the last moment then ducked under the guards outstretched arm and plunged the dagger into his belly .
she twisted the knife slightly and dragged it upwards effectively disemboweling the guard .
still more of the guards were coming , moving much more cautiously after seeing how easily three of their fellow guards had fallen at the hands of this seemingly innocent halfling .
tares , wulfstan and roulibard came running into the corridor in response to laras call for assistance .
wulfstan , the first to arrive , immediately ran forward to the doorway , his stolen short sword raised high .
tares bowed his large head and muttered a short prayer before raising his own heavy headed mace .
the weapon was so large it was unlikely any human would be able to even lift it in two hands , let alone wield it .
tares however , with his superior minotaur strength , used the giant mace in one hand .
lara moved further down the corridor and melted into the shadows .
replacing her dagger she took out another one of her favorite weapons , the leather sling with its pouch of smooth , rounded stones .
slings were rarely used by assassins , as the stones did minimal damage but lara appreciated the subtlety of the weapon , especially when fighting alongside allies in close , cramped conditions .
if she accidentally hit one of her allies instead of her foe , the blow would not be deadly nor would it inflict too much damage .
to the enemy however , the small flying stones hitting them repeatedly tended to keep all but the very best and most experienced understandably distracted and therefore easier targets .
coming from behind her in the corridor the halfling woman was surprised to hear roulibard uttering a low , unintelligible murmur .
she had not expected that any of the prisoners would be in any shape for spell casting .
lara was in favor of prayers in battle , whether they worked or not people believed that they did and often that was enough .
in its place lara was also in favor of magic , but certainly not here , not now .
spellcasters in lara 's opinion rarely seemed to understand things like dimensions and available space far too often she had seen spells go horribly wrong , doing as much damage to friend as foe .
do not , lara said emphatically , not taking her eyes off the melee in front of her for a second , cast a spell , theres no room and youll probably just end up with crispy fried wulfstan .
i realize that , i was just wishing i had a sling of my own , something to help , roulibard answered despondently .
just stay back out of the way , lara answered absently .
out of the corner of her eye lara spied a single guard , a half orc with slightly better equipment than the other guards , slip out of the room they had been hiding in and begin running down the corridor towards the main room of the prison .
wulfstan had obviously also spied the fleeing orc .
dont let him get away , wulfstan yelled .
no , hes scared , let him go lara countered besides we cant waste too much more time .
wulfstan shook his head in disgust but focused on the guards still facing him .
as the warrior slashed out at the guard in front of him two other guards peeled off from their positions at the back of the melee and ran back down the corridor towards the main room .
lara heard wulfstan mutter something under his breath but he did not pursue the fleeing orcs .
gathering supplies soon enough , although like all battles it felt as though it had lasted forever , all the remaining guards lay dead at the feet of wulfstan and tares .
tares was unscathed but wulfstan had an obviously broken arm and a nasty slash on one cheek .
tares placed his large hands on wulfstan 's head and bowing his own the minotaur began to pray .
as lara and roulibard looked on the gash on wulfstan 's cheek closed , leaving the skin smooth and pink and his arm lost its unnatural shape .
the halfling woman could see some bruising was already forming along the length of wulfstan 's forearm , which it appeared tares ' prayers were unable to prevent .
ever since the first time lara had seen tares healing abilities in action she had been awed by the power possessed by the big minotaur .
we should catch up with them , theyll likely lay in wait for an ambush or something , wulfstan appealed to tares .
no , my friend .
there has been sufficient killing for this day , tares spoke softly , well understanding the military mind , which could not bear to see the enemy escape .
we must determine if we can find everyones belongings and leave this place quickly .
wulfstan rolled his eyes but did not argue .
lara was not surprised very few people seemed inclined to argue with a minotaur who stood six and a half feet tall and who , for all his prayers and gentle nature , could fight like a demon .
lara , take wulfstan and search , quickly , tares stressed the word as he held lara 's gaze , the other rooms on that side of the corridor .
stay this side of the main room .
roulibard and i will do the same on this side .
take no more than fifteen minutes and return to prince , i mean slade and the others .
stay close behind me in case theres more guards around , lara said to wulfstan , who was still clearly fuming .
roulibard , let us go , tares paused seeing the young wizard gazing intently at his hands , what is the matter ?
what ?
roulibard looked up at tares , sorry , i just , its nothing , i was thinking of something else .
lead the way sir knight .
i have not yet attained that rank , tares said , as he began walking down the corridor to the next doorway , i am a working cleric .
that is all .
as you say , roulibard answered , falling into step with tares .
the first room that tares and roulibard came to was another barracks room identical to the one they had just left .
still moving quietly tares with roulibard close behind him opened the next and final door .
a small , square room lacking windows or any other doors , two of the three blank walls were lined floor to ceiling with shelves , the other had three enormous crates stacked side by side , which were spilling over with clothes of all descriptions .
this was obviously the prison store room and likely had items belonging to the guards as well as those things taken from the prisoners .
the difficulty now would be separating those items that belonged to wulfstan , slade and roulibard from all the other equipment stored there .
roulibard , do you think you can find your belongings in this mess ?
tares asked .
no problems , i 'll get all the stuff if you just keep an eye out in case any of those fleeing guards remember their duty and decide to come back , roulibard answered walking into the room .
it was a matter of only a few minutes for roulibard to locate everything he was going to be able to find .
he found slade 's matching katanas and the custom made leather brace that allowed slade to wear the katanas on his back .
he also found slades six foot long quarterstaff made from the ancient redwood trees that grew only in the heart of kodeshkas forests .
wulfstan 's plate mail armor , with the royal crest of saxenburg across the breast , was in poor shape but roulibard grabbed it anyway as well as the matching tower shield , which was in much better condition .
guessing at what weapons wulfstan may have possessed on arrival roulibard simply grabbed a couple of long swords and a few daggers sticking all of them in a convenient leather belt he found and wrapped around his own waist .
what items may have belonged to him , roulibard had no idea .
his memory had somehow been wiped clean and he simply could not remember whether or not he had possessed any armor or weaponry at the time of his arrest .
in fact he could not even remember his own arrest or the reason for it .
how or why he was so certain he had collected the correct items for slade and wulfstan he also didnt know but he was sure he had the right gear .
got it , lets go , roulibard came up behind tares who had been diligently observing the corridor .
you have found everything ?
tares asked , astonished at the speed .
everything i 'm likely to find , lets get back to the others and get out of this place .
agreed , tares rumbled and began walking still checking the corridor , back to the large study where they had left the others .
he had observed lara and wulfstan enter the second to last door but they had not yet come out .
knowing , as he now did , that it was not the prisons storeroom , tares wondered what could be taking the two of them so long in a room that was obviously not their objective .
the minotaur wondered if possibly the fleeing guards had hidden in that room and had somehow managed to overpower both lara and wulfstan , although he had heard no sounds of battle .
however , if they had surprised the fleeing guards then both lara and wulfstan could easily be dead and their killers waiting in the room , hoping someone would come to look for the warrior and the halfling .
briefly he thought about going back to check that the warrior and the halfling woman were all right , but they were running out of time .
they had to use the bolt hole and get out of the prison as soon as possible before they encountered even more of the guards .
tares had vowed to stay with slade and search for the missing king erich and if that meant leaving lara and wulfstan behind he was prepared to make that sacrifice .
after all it was the way of belenus , the crying god demanded absolute sacrifice from all for the greater good .
however , there was nothing in the tenets of belenus that said tares had to like what he had to do .
when tares and roulibard re entered the governors study they saw that darzan was sitting idly in one of the overstuffed chairs gazing out the window while slade and nikolai were carefully going through the room .
tares noted at once the slumped set to the young princes shoulders and knew that slades exhaustion must be extreme .
the minotaur cleric found that he greatly admired the determination of the former prince , who was obviously pushing himself to keep up with the group .
sounds like you had some trouble out there , darzan said .
wheres the others ?
slade cut in before tares could answer darzan , we need to get moving before the guards come back .
weve probably wasted too much time as it is , he continued .
it was decided that it would be quicker to separate , tares said gravely .
is the halfling dead ?
nikolai asked , sounding all too eager to tares ' ears .
she and wulfstan should be here any moment tares answered .
looking at the necromancer he thought to himself that for some reason nikolai would like it very much if lara were dead .
tares just wished he knew why lara was so unnerving to the necromancer .
no idea , roulibard said almost as though he were answering the big minotaurs thoughts .
the young mage then took the items he had collected and gave them to slade saying , i 'm pretty sure these are some of the missing items , but whatevers still missing will have to stay missing .
well wait a few minutes at least while we sort through this gear .
at that slade began going through the items roulibard had found .
you found my katanas , slade whispered picking up the beautiful blades .
the pair of katanas had been a gift from slades father , high king erich , the day slade began his training with the warrior monks of the black lotus .
giving them up to his captors had hurt slade immensely and he was incredibly glad they had not been lost to him forever .
after inspecting them closely , slade replaced them carefully into their stiffened leather sheaths .
standing up slade shrugged into the matching leather brace and turning around , asked roulibard to help him slip the two sheaths into their designated holders on his back .
once the brace was in place slade could easily reach up and grab the two blades in a matter of seconds .
nikolai had gone back to rifling through the papers on the desk , while tares stood in the doorway , trying to keep an eye both on the necromancer and the corridor .
out of the corner of his eye tares thought he saw nikolai take a piece of parchment and hide it away in his loose , leather pants .
the big minotaur opened his mouth to question the necromancer , but shut it again , he could not be certain of what he had seen and slade for whatever reason , seemed to trust nikolai .
now , tares regretfully concluded , was not the time to strain that relationship , but he would continue to watch nikolai closely for signs of treachery .
despite what lara had told them regarding nikolais work in the badlands tares remained unconvinced that the necromancer was not in someway responsible for all of this including the fate of sir patrick .
a slight noise from behind made tares turn back to the corridor to see lara and wulfstan walking quickly towards him .
theyre coming , tares announced to the room in general .
pity , nikolai said quietly with a derisive snort .
tares scowled but chose to ignore the necromancer instead , he gestured to wulfstan and lara to hurry .
what took you so long ?
tares questioned lara as they came into the room .
we found some great gear , not that i think it belongs to anyone here , lara began and then spotted the pile of belongings , but it looks like you found what you were looking for anyway .
we didnt see any of the guards but i still think we should use the bolt hole and get out of here we can look through all the stuff we found when were in the tunnel .
theres a place , about three , maybe four hundred feet into the tunnel , its an open area , like a cave almost so if youre all finished , lets go .
we were merely waiting for you lara , slade said , wulfstan your armor is there although roulibard was unable to find your sword .
just grab it for now and well kit you up once were in the tunnel .
into the bolthole the wide staircase leading down had been well crafted and was designed so that they could travel two abreast .
slade and wulfstan took the lead , with lara and trunk immediately behind them , darzan slipped in beside roulibard , while tares and nikolai took the rear .
tares noted with a small smile that lara was holding trunk 's hand and almost jogging to keep up with the long stride of the half troll .
i wish wed been able to disguise that we came down here , slade whispered , although his voice echoed in the confined space .
no need to worry about it , lara assured him , theyll never follow us , at least not too far .
trunk go home now ?
the creatures low rumble managed to sound plaintive , and even vulnerable .
yes , lara replied her tiny hand giving his oversized hand a squeeze , were all going home now , sort of anyway .
they walked in silence for the next twenty minutes , the smooth cut stone walls eventually giving way to reinforced hard packed dirt .
obviously they had passed beyond the boundary of the prison complex .
with that marker behind them , the tension level of the group , barely noticeable before , began to drop considerably .
slade couldnt help but feel amazed they had achieved the impossible , escaped the infamous diablis prison .
he was still concerned about the possibility of their being followed the idea of diablis 's guards creeping up behind them was not really something slade wanted to contemplate .
he would simply have to trust lara and hope her solution would come soon .
even though it was barely three hours past the dawn slade was completely exhausted , his two months in diablis prison had left him in very bad shape and the mornings events had zapped what little strength he possessed .
slade glanced surreptitiously at wulfstan beside him the soldier was equally exhausted and it was obvious to slade that only stubborn pride was giving wulfstan the strength to keep putting one foot in front of the other .
wulfstan had been slades childhood companion , his and ursula 's .
the soldier had been an orphan adopted by king erich and queen urda so wulfstan had grown up in the palace .
the king and queen had raised wulfstan like another son , giving him all the same advantages as their natural children .
slade knew how much his father had thought of wulfstan , how erich had loved him as if he were his son , and how much wulfstan had loved his father .
suddenly slade felt guilty for his outburst in the prison .
he knew that the big warrior would never have willingly put his father in danger .
wulfstan , slade began , i 'm sorry about before , what i said , i just he trailed off .
dont apologize slade , you were right , wulfstan said tiredly , i let him down .
but i will find a way to make this right , i swear that to you .
i know .
but its not just you and me , its all of us , were in this together .
whoever is behind this will rue the day they declared war on saxenburg .
you really believe all that , what the halfling and the necromancer said ?
yes , i do .
my own imprisonment was too bizarre , too well orchestrated to have been a mere coincidence .
i also have my own reasons for trusting nikolai , and trunk .
slade hesitated but eventually decided against sharing his dream with anyone at this stage , he wasnt sure wulfstan would find it comforting .
i hope youre right slade , i really hope youre right .
this is it , lara said , after another ten minutes walking .
what is it ?
slade asked looking around .
the reason we dont have to worry about anyone following us , everybody get behind me .
once everyone was positioned to her satisfaction lara walked to one of the wooden beams , which seemed to slade 's eyes to be identical to every other wooden beam they had passed .
kneeling down lara touched something near the floor and then jumped back .
as soon as laras fingers had touched whatever trigger had been hidden in the beam , a huge slab of stone had fallen from the roof , completely blocking the tunnel .
not much good having a bolt hole if everyone can just follow you down , lara said impishly .
not much good at all lara , slade said appreciatively , although he wondered why , if this system had been in place when king eldritch held the throne , he had not used it .
better let me go first slade , lara said taking the lead , mostly the tunnels in good shape but i 've probably got a better ear than the rest of you for anything unusual , any creaks or groans .
we havent got too much further to go .
silently they all fell into step behind lara .
another weary hours marching saw the hard packed dirt walls becoming noticeably shorter , although still towering above even trunk .
seeing this slade realized they must have been travelling upwards for some time without his noticing .
not that he was capable of noticing very much in his present condition .
he was stumbling more than walking and longed for nothing more than a quiet spot somewhere to rest preferably for a whole ten day .
were heading up , arent we lara ?
slade questioned the halfling woman .
yes , were coming up to a kind of cave , only were also still a little bit underground here .
we should be there anyactually were here , she said .
the first thing slade noticed about the open space was its incredible size .
it was huge , roughly circular with the tunnel bisecting it in the middle .
on one side of the wall were piles of straw and blankets , all ancient and rotten with mildew and the gods only knew what else .
the other side was relatively clear except for two long , low stone troughs slade surmised they had once probably held water .
at the far end of the cave three large iron rings had been hammered into the walls , which slade recognized as horse rings .
obviously king eldritch , or whoever had used the bolt hole last , had prepared this room so they would find fresh horses , plenty of water and probably other provisions as well .
how much farther is it to the end from here lara ?
slade asked .
um , lara 's pixie face screwed up in concentration , probably , like an hour , maybe a bit less , on foot that is .
if no one objects i suggest we rest up here for a little while , slade said , i know its not even noon but i dont think i can take another step .
im practically falling where i stand and if i dont rest im not going to be much use when we do eventually get out of here .
of course we will rest .
it will give us an opportunity to , tares paused , looking quickly at nikolai , talk about what we may have discovered .
fine with me , wulfstan said his voice heavy with exhaustion but , does anybody have any food ?
yes , darzan said , sitting on the edge of the low trough and opening one of the large packs , tares and lara brought some in .
wonderful , slade said as he spread out one of the cleaner old blankets on the floor , then let us eat like the kings we are .
an unimaginable alliance malerok city was the capital city , in fact the only city within the malerok republic .
a sprawling metropolis , in many ways malerok was identical to virtually every other major city in the kingdoms .
there was the same dirt , dust and noise , the same press of people and carts , horses , dogs , and children .
there were the same types of houses , market places , street vendors , taverns , inns and even the occasional temple but it was the differences that made malerok such a pleasure to visit .
unlike the major cities throughout the rest of the kingdoms , the wide expanse of the republic of malerok had no surrounding walls .
the city simply spread out till the streets became dirt tracks instead of paved cobbles , the close packed houses grew larger until they became grand estates , and then further out , simple farmsteads surrounded by crop fields or paddocks filled with livestock , or sometimes both .
even the joy of no enclosing walls however , could not compare with the joy of there being no inner walls .
the people of malerok city , be they human , elf , dwarf , halfling , orc , undead , in fact any one of the many races , all walked freely through the streets , mixing easily together , ancient hatreds forgotten or at the very least , put aside .
there were no guards patrolling the streets to enforce the peace the peace was simply there , it existed .
of course , the reason behind this goodwill and peaceful co existence was also simple , magic .
the malerok republic was the kingdoms sole magocracy .
the ruling body of the republic , the famed council of nine , was made up of powerful spellcasters .
the councils members were men and women , humans , non humans , the living and the dead .
within the borders of malerok , only the magic was important , everything else was secondary .
lord michael strong could only pray that the malerok republic would serve as an example to the rest of the kingdoms of kaynos .
it was his most fervent prayer that all the kingdoms would learn some cooperation .
that way , hopefully they might one day return to the peace and prosperity it was said kaynos had enjoyed nearly a thousand years ago , before the great war tore the empires apart .
lord michael was , however , well aware that ancient wounds ran deep , distrust between the species had become the standard .
now there were few , if any , who believed the ancient scrolls that spoke of a once united land .
he also knew well that most people , including almost all of his own knights , would not believe the errand he had come here on , nor would they believe or approve of who it was he had come to see .
guiding his horse through some of malerok 's more spacious and prosperous streets lord michael eventually located the dancing pony inn .
the inn was a three story building with a wide veranda at the front and small balconies coming off the rooms in the upper stories .
painted a creamy yellow color , with a darker , mustard yellow trim the dancing pony had a large , well kept stable set at the side of the building .
herbs planted in the gardens combined with the smell of baking bread from inside the inn to create an inviting atmosphere .
lord michael was impressed , the inn appeared comfortable , and probably made a very decent profit .
he rode his large bay gelding straight into the yard and the stables where the warhorse was taken by a human lad of about fifteen , who promised the grand knight that the horse would be given a good rub down before being fed .
with a pleased nod , and a final pat of his mount he left the stables .
walking across the yard to the inns front doors lord michael removed his heavy , leather riding gauntlets and tucked them into his belt .
as he pushed open the double doors of the inn the knight was assailed with the heat coming off the roaring fire in the enormous fireplace on one side of the room .
opposite the fireplace , positioned close to the stairs , was an ornately carved wooden bar shaped like a rounded right angle .
overstuffed armchairs were grouped around the fireplace and a large bookcase lined the wall opposite the doors , with the staircase above it .
although it was late afternoon this room of the inn , at least , was virtually deserted apart from the dark haired elf behind the bar , there was only one other occupant , a dwarven female studiously reading from a scroll .
may i help you with something sir ?
the elven bartender asked lord michael .
i 've come to meet someone , i believe theres a room booked here in my name , replied lord michael smoothing his long silvery white hair back from his weathered face as he did so .
and your name sir ?
lord michael strong .
at the name the elfs purplish colored eyes widened in something very close to awe , the grand knight may not have been immediately recognizable but virtually everyone knew his name .
certainly sir , i 'm afraid your guest has not yet arrived however , if you will follow me i will personally escort you to your room , the elf said as he lifted part of the bars counter top and moved around to the front of the bar .
before leaving , the elf gestured elegantly towards his now empty seat and there appeared on the seat a tiny white pony , standing on its back legs and giving every appearance of dancing .
michael raised his eyebrows , he realized it would likely be only illusionary yet it was still quite pretty .
can the horse see to any customers who might come in ?
michael asked as he followed the elf up the staircase .
oh yes sir , she can speak all the known languages , but of course her primary function is simply to let customers know i am unable to attend them at present , and of course to keep her eye on the cashbox .
michael gave a small laugh , although he was a priest and a warrior he did not share the universal distrust of arcane spellcasters that his fellow clerics had in fact , he often wished he possessed some of their tricks .
the animosity between arcane and divine spellcasters had existed for a very long time , hundreds of years all told .
it was extremely unlikely it would ever completely end and almost certain it would not occur during his lifetime .
not for the first time it crossed michael 's mind that the adventurers and mercenaries who wandered the kingdoms should serve as an example to all .
with adventuring groups anyone was welcome , any career , and any race so long as they earned their keep and got the job done .
now of course was not the time to voice such radical thoughts as that , the knight reflected to himself , his current errand if it were known would be controversial enough to most without adding outrageous ideas like universal cooperation .
the elf led michael up two flights of stairs and into a large , well appointed room set at the very back of the inn .
walking inside the knight saw it was actually two rooms .
the outer room had a smaller version of the fireplace downstairs , large , comfortable armchairs , a small writing desk against one wall as well as the obligatory bookcase .
where would the republic of malerok be without its books michael wondered ?
there was also another round table obviously intended for private dining .
leading off this room was the very luxurious looking bedroom , complete with all necessities .
it was quite a change from his sparse set of rooms in the tears of belenus headquarters .
thank you , i 'm certain it will be more than comfortable , michael said with a small smile as he pressed a gold piece into the elven barkeeps hand , by the way what is your name ?
extremely difficult to pronounce in the common tongue sir , so everyone calls me sam , the elf replied .
sam , short for sammellarenus ?
how , sam began in shock , how did you know ?
and your accent its perfect ?
i 've spent a lot of time around high elves over the years .
i 've even been invited several times to specularum .
with your dark hair , purple eyes , skilled at illusions , youd have to be a high elf , and the name sammellarenus is a fairly common .
i 'm very impressed sir .
and youre quite correct sammellarenus is indeed my name , though i was actually born in biazzan .
unfortunately i have not been home for a very long time .
sam was actually more impressed with this tall , imposing looking human than he would publicly have admitted , i will show your guest up immediately upon arrival lord michael , and may i say it has been a pleasure to finally meet you .
sam , the pleasure has been all mine , but dont trouble yourself looking out for my guest , i 'm quite certain he will find his own way here .
however , i should appreciate it if you could send up some mulled wine , two glasses , and some cheese , bread and fruit .
certainly , i will see to it immediately .
michael removed the leather gauntlets from his belt and threw them carelessly on the writing desk .
he walked to the rooms single window throwing it wide open in spite of the chill outside .
although he was wearing only his riding armor of leggings , long tunic and chain shirt , the knight still felt stifled by the rooms heat .
it had been some time since his last trip to malerok and he had , quite simply , forgotten how sensitive mages were to cold .
the slightest drop in the temperature and mages immediately stoked the fires .
he stood looking out of the window , drinking in the fresh air until he heard the tentative knock at the door .
it was one of the inns employees , a human female , delivering the wine and food he had ordered .
michael thanked her and tipped her a silver piece , about twice the value of the food .
then he turned back to the window , wondering how long he would have to wait for his guest to arrive .
not long , lord michael , not too long at all if youre wondering when i would arrive , said a low and pleasant male voice from behind him .
michael turned and looked at his guest .
he had heard so much about lord nexus , who was , without doubt , the most powerful wizard in all the kingdoms .
they had communicated on many occasions but this was their first face to face meeting .
nexus was human , or at least he appeared human but he was also rumored to be in excess of two hundred years old .
whatever his age the mage was surprisingly hale and seemed only a little older than michael was himself , a mere fifty summers .
lord nexus was of average height , slim built but lacking the frail appearance many mages seemed to acquire .
the mage was completely bald and had piercing dark eyes , but it was his hands that drew immediate attention with their long , slender fingers and very sharp nails .
nexus wore an unadorned black cloak over a pair of black trousers and a long tunic , which was embroidered with his own personal symbol a single eye with a huge black pupil .
reading my mind lord nexus ?
michael asked .
no , not at all , milord in the circumstances that would be , he paused , inappropriate , dont you think ?
quite .
please sit i have mulled wine and some food , michael indicated the overstuffed armchairs near the fireplace , anticipating the mage would want to sit in the warmth .
thank you , nexus untied the long cloak , removed it , poured a glass of mulled wine and sat in the armchair closest to the fire .
when the knight had his own wine he sat down opposite nexus and waited for the mage to speak .
this is something of a unique occasion would you not say lord michael ?
i most certainly would , but perhaps it would be best if we dispensed with the formalities , dont you think ?
i am not complete sure i agree with you , however , i shall endeavor to be less formal michael .
as will i nexus , as will i , michael paused for a moment before continuing , may i offer a toast to friends and allies .
indeed .
so we are then to be allies , michael ?
as strange as it may seem nexus , yes , i do not believe we have any other choice .
it is my firm belief that the kingdoms only real chance lies in our working together .
i agree with your assessment of our current situation , michael , nexus said before falling silent .
i had been informed of your intelligence .
i had always doubted it however , even i can be wrong , the mage eventually continued .
not very often i would imagine .
no , not very often .
do you know michael i am about to do something i do very , very seldom .
i intend to be , what is the term ?
yes , completely straight with you .
i believe the time has come , for us both to fully understand each other .
i appreciate the candor nexus .
not yet , but you will .
i do not profess to support your affinity for belenus , it is not a path i , myself , would have ever willingly chosen .
i imagine my loyalty to the blood god bhaal is likewise incomprehensible to you .
however , these are differences of , he paused again nexuss conversations were littered with these strange pauses michael was discovering , faith , divergent religions .
these differences need not always separate us , although in the past , i fear they have done much more than simply separate us .
such differences have generated fear , loathing , enmity .
i do not wish that state to continue , and neither , i believe do you .
true enough .
my opinion , for whatever its worth nexus because i give it to you as a man not priest , or knight , not warrior , not even a simple servant , just a man , but my opinion is that the time has come to forget the absolutes of black and white , embrace the grey .
nexus gave a small smile but did not reply immediately .
instead he walked to the small , round table , refilled his glass , and returned to his seat , the tray containing the food and the wine bottle trailing behind him in midair .
after he had made himself comfortable the mage selected a large slice of bread , spread it with soft cheese and with a small flick of his long fingers sent the airborne tray towards the knight .
michael refused to be awed by the display he already knew the mage was an extremely powerful wizard .
instead he simply refilled his own glass , and selected a small piece of hard cheese .
the tray and the wine bottle floated back to the table .
embrace the grey , it is an interesting phrase and yet , strangely suitable .
i would venture to suggest , michael , that both you and i have become the grey , over the course of our long careers .
i would say youre probably right .
i 'd also say that we may very well be the only ones who have .
the lines between good and evil remain firmly entrenched in many minds throughout the kingdoms , but i no longer believe they apply in many cases .
once again michael , with unnerving sensibility you have clearly and succinctly outlined the very difficulty which we will face .
patrick and your second worked extremely well together , michael spoke slowly , he was not sure exactly where nexus was heading with this conversation , and he was beginning to wonder whether the mage still intended to help .
yes , surprisingly , certainly to nikolai , he discovered he quite liked sir patrick and that they did , as you say , work well together .
then i 'm afraid i dont understand nexus , you seem , michael paused , almost as though you are now reluctant to continue ?
oh no , michael , you misunderstand me .
i believe , very strongly , in working together .
in our alliance .
however , i am , like you , only one man with one mans opinions .
i have come here directly from a council meeting .
it did not go well .
they refused to listen ?
on the contrary , they actually possessed new information of which i had been previously unaware .
no , listening is not the problem .
convincing them of the threat , that is the problem .
i 'm afraid that the council , at this stage , can see no immediate benefit to our association , nor can they be persuaded that the threat itself is immediate .
damnit , michael spat out angrily , he had not expected this .
in fact he had been counting on the cooperation of the mages , far more than he had realized .
there simply was no possible way this threat could be turned aside without the help of the arcane mages .
michael had hoped and had truly believed that nexus would be influential enough with the council to convince them to join the fight against shallendara .
throwing himself out of the chair , michael stormed to the still open window and leaned onto the sill .
it had been his own idea to approach the mages first , hoping if nexus could convince the council then perhaps he would have greater success when he approached the senior knights of the tears of belenus now that hope was gone .
this was not , of course , the first disappointment michael had experienced throughout the course of his career .
however , this disappointment may prove to have the most far reaching consequences .
i 'm disappointed nexus , michael began without turning around , i had great hopes of the mages .
everything the republic of malerok stands for is built around the concept of cooperation for them , now , to turn away from that .
michael stopped , turned around slowly and walked back to his chair .
i am more disappointed than i can say .
i too am , disappointed , although not surprised , michael .
you see , i have an understanding of the council , and their reluctance .
this is not a refusal to help a fellow mage , nor is it turning away from their ideals .
to my fellows it is obeying their ideals .
you must understand michael , that the old hatreds run deep and these are not ideological hatreds or disagreements over tenets of faith .
spellcasters have always been hated , feared and mistrusted by others .
magic , at least the kind of magic that my fellow mages and i practice has always been viewed with suspicion by those who do not understand it .
we are seen as possessing strange and unnatural powers .
the knight who says his prayers before battle or prays for the healing of a fallen friend this is deemed acceptable , it is understandable and valued .
for these miraculous powers , these abilities are clearly the bestowal of favor from the pantheon of good deities .
even the wandering druids and their brand of magic , these too are acceptable drawn from the natural world , again it is a matter of godly favor .
we of the arcane , however , have always been viewed as different .
while our power is likewise dependant upon the favor of the gods we choose whatever god suits our ambitions or temperament .
thus there are as many mages following those considered as evil deities as there are who follow the good .
our magic is much more closely tied to our own personal ambitions than that practiced by your knights or the druids .
it is this that has caused mages to become hated and feared , and we , in turn , have learned to hate you .
i see , michael eventually said sadly .
most of what nexus had just said michael had known , or at least been aware of , yet he had not really taken it into account when he had approached the mage for help .
the knight slowly sipped his wine as he thought over the mages comment .
in truth , the general mistrust of mages had been so much a part of everyday life that most people had simply ceased to be aware of it .
unaware and unlikely to see it might not be the right way to believe or behave .
i 'm not certain that you do , yet .
but i will try and make you not only see but truly understand , michael .
nexus got out of his chair and walked to the window , looking out at the city below .
a history lesson do you know very much of the history of our republic ?
nexus asked his guest eventually .
no i dont , not really .
i did not think so i will relate it to you .
then perhaps you will understand , perhaps you will see .
you will know i am sure , of the legend of a united kaynos before the great war .
of course , but indeed , nexus interrupted , but .
no one really believes the legends , not anymore .
not in this age of enlightenment .
they are , however , wrong for the legend is true .
not perhaps in the way it is told for kaynos was never united as one single state of being .
one people as it were , under one ruler , but it was not the divided land it has become .
before the great war , there was unity among the empires and they were empires in that distant past .
to the west a great elven empire , a dwarven empire in the centre and the human empire to the east .
the noble dragon clans , of what was now referred to only as the northern badlands , ruled over those races that had been classified as animal .
that included not only orcs , goblins , trolls and the like but also the halflings , minotaurs , ogres and , of course the giants .
in the so called golden age of kaynos it was inconceivable to the ruling dwarves , elves and humans that these other animal races were intelligent or that they deserved any rights or privilege .
we know better now , do we not , michael ?
i 'd like to say we do but there are many who still feel that way nexus .
something i 'm sure you know as well as i , the knight answered .
exactly , we have not progressed .
if you can appreciate the prejudices faced by those races today then perhaps you can begin to imagine what it was like for them in that time .
given the status of animals , they were powerless and ostracized .
they were often hunted and killed for sport .
i have read many accounts of those times i have become quite familiar with that period of our history .
in this golden age mages were highly respected .
they were highly sought after , contributing members of society .
there were schools of magic all over the land training new mages regardless of gender , race or religion .
even then , as now , intelligence and ability were the only qualifiers to a magical career , the favor of the gods always came second to the training .
it is not entirely clear from the records exactly who was the first , or when , but it appears that certain mages began teaching the animals spell casting .
this was not a popular decision .
no , it would not have been , michael said thoughtfully .
again the records are fragmented .
perhaps as a result of almost ten centuries , perhaps they were fragmented to begin with .
either way , what happened next was inevitable .
the great war .
michael listened , his wine forgotten at his elbow , in spellbound fascination as the mage outlined the course , and tragic result of the great war .
it had begun as an attack against the mages .
those who objected to the animals being taught magic had begun killing and torturing individual spellcasters , they had overrun the schools of magic , and raided the vendors and marketplaces that sold spell components .
as anger built they had destroyed anything remotely related to arcane magic .
having no choice the mages had fought back , and fighting beside them had been the animal races so despised by the three ruling races .
had it remained solely a war against the mages kaynos might have remained whole with magic obliterated but there were many who sided with the mages .
there were also those who took advantage of the chaos to serve their own ambitions .
eventually the situation disintegrated until war ravaged the entire known world .
nexus explained how the war had raged for a hundred years , by which time the face of kaynos had been eternally changed becoming the scattered kingdoms .
eventually , nexus continued , the war came to an end .
not because there was any kind of resolution , it had simply become unsustainable .
the number of dead was staggering , some records indicate it may have been anywhere between half and two thirds of the population that had been killed .
the land was decimated , cities had been destroyed .
famine and disease had spread all over kaynos .
and so , those mages that were left retreated here , the old schools were abandoned , mages no longer served the various leaders , instead they formed the republic .
what was it you said earlier ?
the very foundation of malerok is unity , but , nexus paused , leaning forward and holding michael 's gaze intently , it is unity between mages .
the great war may be over , michael , but the reasons behind it have not changed .
the fear of my kind has not diminished and , i must be honest with you , our fear of your kind has not diminished either .
i see , and michael realized as he spoke that perhaps for the first time he truly did understand .
close to a thousand years may have passed yet he knew that nothing had truly changed .
the best that could be said of many peoples attitudes towards mages was that they were tolerated .
the worst , and most common , was that they were still hated .
they were hated now for the same reasons they had been hated then , because people feared their power , and how they might use it .
yes , now you do truly see .
however , for all the possible validity of their feelings the mages are wrong .
i do not believe these attitudes need continue , but they will not change , nexus said passionately , unless we mages show ourselves more openly to the kingdoms .
the people , of all the races , must come to know spellcasters , and they must come to understand .
there are some amongst us , myself included , who are ambitious and driven , yet those ambitions need not come into conflict with others .
it is a rare spellcaster who wants to rule the world .
you note , michael , i said rare , i did not say there were none , for indeed , there are some who crave that kind of power .
yet , is not that a common ambition among all the races ?
do you not have the greedy , the venal , the liars , cheats and frauds among you ?
as do we .
we are not unalike .
we are , in fact , just like you , and of course , that is the very reason we are so feared .
at the risk of offending you nexus , why shouldnt people fear the power and ambitions of spellcasters ?
michael asked after a small pause .
on the contrary , i find your question most respectful .
let me respond with my own first , how do you contain the ambitions of your own ?
the short answer to that is that we dont always .
but we also have many others the knight trailed off as the answer came clear .
there are others who work against them , thats what you mean isnt it ?
exactly .
once again michael , i am thoroughly impressed with your acumen .
just as you have others , ofshall we say , different ambitions to curtail the more excessive among you , so too do we .
using myself as an example , it is well known that i am the greatest of all mages but , i do not rule the council , i am not a tyrant of malerok and yet my allegiance to bhaal would cause most to classify me , with good cause , asevil .
there is not a single mage anywhere that could defeat me , but i could not defeat them all .
let me add , michael , that my ambitions lie elsewhere .
however , you do see my meaning ?
youre saying that the world of mages is , michael struggled to put what he was beginning to understand into words , like a mirror of the rest of the world .
the mage did not answer immediately , instead holding up his wine glass filled with blood red wine to the light .
lord michael wondered what the mage was thinking nexuss face was completely inscrutable .
that is an extremely apt description .
nexus said eventually , we are , indeed , a mirror of the world .
you have dedicated your life to service , to doing what you believe to be right .
it may surprise you to learn that there are mages , many of them , who share your same sense of dedication some even who share your allegiance to belenus .
but then , michael was almost stammering in his surprise , i dont understand , why wont they help ?
they probably will , it is the council who have refused .
nexus paused , watching as michael absorbed the implications .
our efforts must continue , we must find others who will help , but at this stage we can not expect any organized assistance from the council .
at this stage ?
i believe , nexus answered , the council will render assistance eventually .
i believe they will have no choice .
for we , and i say we because this affects all the kingdoms .
we now , are faced with a rogue mage whose ambitions exceed anything any spellcaster has ever attempted .
in time , and it is my hope that it will not be too much time , they will come to see that we must not only work together as mages , but also work with the rest of the world .
an impending war michael leaned back in his chair .
it was not the result he had hoped for when he first contacted nexus , but realistically it was more than he could have expected .
he had first approached the mage nearly three years ago now , as a result of information patrick had gathered while working in the northern badlands .
that in turn had led to nexus sending nikolai , once his apprentice now a skilled spellcaster and trusted assistant , to the badlands to work alongside patrick and gather more information .
michael , despite some initial reservations , had ultimately approved of the idea of nikolai and patrick working together .
nikolai and patrick had worked and travelled together for more than two years .
together they had gathered an enormous amount of disquieting information .
as a result of their efforts michael and nexus knew a great deal about what they were up against , yet they were still missing some crucial information .
three months ago patrick and nikolai had left on what should have been one final trip to the badlands .
they wanted a chance to fill in the blanks in the information they possessed .
the very day they had arrived in fort doom they had been ambushed .
somehow nikolai had managed to escape , patrick had not .
in the ordinary course of events , michael would have grieved the loss of his second but counted it as simply an acceptable loss in the course of duty .
he had learned a valuable lesson from both nexus and nikolai .
nikolai had refused to accept patrick 's loss .
the young mage had claimed they had no proof patrick was dead .
nikolai had asked for , and obtained , permission from nexus to return to the badlands to search for patrick and affect a rescue .
it was their actions , so unexpected and so unlike his own , that had prompted michael to send tares , one of his most respected healers , on the same mission .
it was not , michael knew , a matter of uncaring , he had loved patrick like a son .
it was simply that to the knights of belenus death and suffering were acceptable elements of their lives .
michael had simply accepted that patrick was dead .
nikolais response had shown michael the need for far greater cooperation .
not just between the kingdoms but also between the races and between the differing philosophies .
he had learned they could learn valuable things from each other .
we are very much of the same mind , nexus , but i 'm beginning to realize how difficult this is going to be .
much more difficult than i had anticipated .
quite .
michael , you and i are somewhat unique in our thinking , for now .
but just as war tore the kingdoms apart , war will bring them together .
then you believe there will be a war ?
michael asked leaning forward again .
oh yes , there will be a war .
that much is certain .
then we have failed , michael said .
on the contrary michael , we have just begun .
if , and at this stage it is still a question , if we lose the war then we will have failed .
however , we must not fail for if we do nexus trailed off , the expression on his cold , handsome face saying far more than mere words could convey .
michael sighed deeply , he had been viewing this collaboration as a means to avoid the threat of war , now that hope was dashed , war was coming and they would have to win .
with the information gathered by nikolai and sir patrick , nexus continued , we know almost everything that we need to know not enough to prevent a war , michael interrupted .
no , not enough to prevent the war .
we are not , however without resources .
it is true that the council will not yet aid us nor perhaps will the knights of belenus officially aid us , but i imagine you would have supporters , loyal followers , as do i .
with their aid , and some welcome assistance i believe it will be possible to prevail .
welcome assistance ?
what assistance ?
as i said earlier the council did not disbelieve me , they in fact offered additional information , and i have news of my own .
well ?
michael asked .
firstly sir patrick has been located alive .
what ?
michael jumped up out of the chair in his shock .
patrick was alive he had not dared to hope , even when he sent tares , michael still had not truly believed he would find patrick alive .
i thought you would be pleased .
i received absolute confirmation several weeks ago , knowing of this impending meeting i chose to wait and deliver the news personally .
where is he ?
is nikolai with him ?
nikolai is with him , in a sense .
the question of where they are is a little more difficult .
i would ask you michael , to trust me on this matter .
suffice it to say that patrick is alive , and uninjured .
there are complications , however , which i truly feel will be best handled by nikolai at this stage .
michael stood , looking down at nexus for a long moment .
eventually he sat back down , gazing thoughtfully at the fireplace .
i do trust you nexus , he said finally , i 'll leave this in your hands for now .
for now then , nexus answered with a small smile , as to the other information given to me this morning , i am afraid it will not be as pleasant hearing .
go on .
sources within the council have discovered some of shallendara 's allies .
as we had feared , she has approached the dark one and king karlos of brikenwald .
what i had not anticipated , nor i believe had you , is that she has also formed an alliance with thincol torion of the padyian empire andulrich of saxenburg .
no , you must be mistaken , ulrich would not michael trailed off in uncertainty .
it was well known that ulrich was ambitious and eager to assume the throne .
he had certainly embraced the role of regent while king erich was away , but to ally himself with this rogue mage .
was ulrich truly that ambitious ?
michael sadly believed that it was possible .
all right , i can see that ulrich would be , michael struggled for the right word , attracted by the promise of that kind of power .
thats not the worst news you have though is it ?
again i am impressed with your astute observations .
no , it is not the worst news .
according to the council , there is no known way to counteract shallendara 's new type of magic .
none ?
michael said in a harsh whisper .
none that they know of i do not believe there is no answer .
but if they dont know , and you dont know , then i dont see any solution .
nor i am vexed to admit do i , not at this stage .
however , there are records , this new brain magic that shallendara possesses , it is perhaps not so new you must have heard the rumors yourself over the years michael , men and women accused of sorcery , witchcraft .
are you telling me that shallendara is a witch ?
michael asked , horrified by the very thought .
oh no , she is most definitely a mage .
yet the reports i have seen and witnesses i have spoken to , it seems to me that she has somehow found a way to combine true magic with what we have always termed witchcraft .
witchcraft , sorcery , as you must realize , these are nothing more than words , names to describe some type of magic that is different , a magic that breaks the rules of spellcraft .
when i cause the wine jug to float in the air and fill your glass , you think nothing of it it is magic , it is familiar and acceptable .
why ?
because you know that i have been trained , i possess the skills , but if , for example , a peasant woman does the same thing it is a very different story is it not ?
she is untrained , she herself does not know how she has achieved the effect , and so , we all , mages included , brand her a witch .
i ask myself the question , what if witchcraft , or what we have branded sorcery and witchcraft , is simply another , different type of magic , real magic ?
is that even possible ?
michael asked quietly , i 'm not an expert in these matters but my understanding has been that magic comes either from the gods , in the form of divine answers to specific prayers , or from some kind of mental manipulation , or whatever it is exactly that mages do ?
mental manipulation is the very opposite to what mages do , our power stems from the gods as does yours .
it is true that we use our intelligence but we use our minds to find the hidden levers of the universe .
i can , for example , create fire from the air , because years of study have shown me the elements of fire within the elements of the air , thus i find the right words , incantations , spell components , whatever the case may be which will allow me , the blessing of the god , to draw the fire from the air .
i 'm not sure i follow you completely but the gist of what youre saying is that arcane magic is essentially the same as divine magic but with added study .
that is crudely yet essentially correct , and it brings with it its own safeguards .
the years a mage must spend in study , the dedication to the craft these bring in their wake , discipline , restraint , control .
in shallendara , it appears that she has also discovered a way to tap into whatever power allows those witches to do what things they do , including the very wild , out of control nature of witchcraft .
witches do not possess the same disciplines and restraint as we of the arcane among the things they are capable of , unfortunately , include the very mental manipulation that you spoke of earlier .
although it is not manipulation or control of the spellcasters mind , it is manipulation of others .
as you know , the most common charges leveled against any so called witch or sorcerer is that of predicting the future , of forecasting deaths , reading peoples minds .
the witch is said to put the evil eye on their victim , and the victim dies because they believe they will , nexus leaned forward in order to emphasize his words , it is not because the witch has done anything to them , physically , but in the mind of the victim they believe something has been done .
the power , if it is real and can be harnessed , is phenomenal .
michael was silenced by the implications of nexuss explanation .
although he had known , almost from the beginning , the danger posed by this rogue mage , the idea of a new , out of control type of magic went beyond anything michael had conceived .
michael had been around magic , of one kind or another , for most of his life and he had a great respect for its power .
he also knew , all too well , just how dangerous that power could be when turned against those ill equipped to fight against it .
how were the kingdoms supposed to fight against a new , powerful type of magic ?
one that invaded the mind , making them believe the unbelievable , feel pain without injury and who knew what else with no experience of this type of magic and no defense ?
the very idea made michael 's blood run cold .
what do you mean if its real ?
the knight asked abruptly , remembering nexus cryptic comment .
these are rumors michael .
we are dealing with gossip and innuendo .
stories that have been told and retold , there are a few credible eyewitness reports but they come from frightened people .
i can not count any of this as truly accurate .
not yet .
i need more information however , i will never be able to obtain what i seek for myself .
what is it that you need ?
if i can get it for you nexus i will certainly do so .
you have my solemn word .
i thank you for that michael .
your word is valuable , however , i am uncertain whether or not you will be able to help .
i seek access to the great library of the black lotus monastery .
i believe that somewhere in the scrolls lies the answer .
the answer of how to .
defeat the witch and her new type of magic .
you have realized , have you not that shallendaras witchcraft is , by its very nature .
independent of the gods ?
yes but im unsure whether that will work for us or against us ?
the knight answered .
the mage threw back his handsome head and laughed aloud .
im not sure either , michael , but perhaps we should all .
pray .
pray for the gods assistance and pray there is an answer and that i can find that answer in the library .
i cant make any promises nexus but i will do what i can to get you access .
i still have many friends among the warrior monks .
i can ask for nothing more .
forced loyalty slade and wulfstan were barely able to finish their share of the meager meal before collapsing .
lara had prepared them some make shift beds using the cleanest of the old blankets and the least infested of the moldy straw .
as soon as they had finished eating they had retired to sleep , utterly exhausted .
tares , although he understood their exhaustion , was nevertheless disappointed .
the big minotaur wanted to sort through the papers and other items scavenged from the prison .
tares hoped the necromancer and his lies would be exposed and he believed there may be an answer among the items taken from the prison .
however , tares was prepared to wait .
until then tares was determined to keep a close watch on nikolai .
while they waited for slade and wulfstan to get some much needed rest lara sat on the floor with roulibard and darzan and began teaching them how to play the complicated card game the halfling favored .
sitting nearby next to the giant half ogre , half troll called trunk nikolai was leaning back against the wall , eyes closed .
after a few minutes the necromancer stood and walked wordlessly towards the far end of the open space and into the deeper shadows of the tunnel .
tares waited a decent interval of time after all , it was possible the necromancer had simply left to relieve himself .
when the mage still had not returned after a suitable period of time the big minotaur got up quietly and followed .
he found nikolai sitting on a rough stone boulder about thirty feet into the tunnel .
you never disappoint me tares .
its nice to know that i can always rely on you and your perpetual distrust , nikolai said in a low , mocking whisper .
and have you ever given me a reason not to distrust you , necromancer ?
i do have a name you know , nikolai said with a hint of steel in his voice , i use yours , surely simple good manners would dictate you use mine .
if you think to intimidate me tares began only to be cut off by nikolais cold , hollow laugh .
i do not need to intimidate you , priest , nikolai whispered harshly , you mean less than nothing to me .
however , if we are forced to work together then you will do me the courtesy of addressing me by name .
i have no intention of working with you but you will , nikolai cut in , pulling a small object wrapped in cloth from his pocket and passing it to tares .
how , where did you , i dont tares was almost stuttering in his surprise , for the small object nikolai had handed him was the seal ring belonging to lord michael strong .
it gave the holder absolute authority over any priest or knight of belenus .
lord michael seemed to think that you , or whoever he sent , might require an incentive to take orders from me , a lowly necromancer , so he gave me the ring to ensure your , nikolai paused for a small , mocking laugh , loyalty .
tares sat down heavily on a boulder facing nikolai .
nikolai could only have come into possession of the ring of belenus legitimately .
the ring was under the protection of belenus and so could not be stolen .
this meant tares had no option other than to follow the necromancers orders .
it also confirmed the mages earlier claim that he had been , and still was , working with and for the grand knight , lord michael strong .
tares sighed deeply and wordlessly handed the ring back to nikolai .
it seems , nikolai , tares growled reluctantly , that my services and loyalty lies with you .
yes it does , but you will find i am not too exacting a taskmaster .
as absurd as it may seem to you , our aims , for the moment , coincide .
as you have surmised there are certain details that i have chosen , at this time , to keep from the others , including slade .
knowing your trusting nature you will doubtless be bursting with any number of ridiculous ideas as to why i have made this decision .
as much as it would amuse me to watch you blunder around trying to determine what im up to i will tell you instead .
before i came here i discovered that someone else was making an attempt to find our mutual missing friend , and to ingratiate themselves with slade .
who ?
tares asked , still suspicious .
i dont know , not specifically , but i had certain suspicions which your pet halfling has confirmed for me .
tares frowned , ignoring the insult to lara for the moment , and tried to puzzle out nikolais meaning .
you mean , the big minotaur said slowly , that someone else from the silent hand has been looking for shhh , now , now tares we must be very , very careful on that subject matter .
i have a great deal of respect for our mutual friend and i have no wish to see further harm come to him .
i find it hard to believe you care what happens to a knight of belenus , tares snorted .
and i dont care what you believe as long as you do as youre told .
my actions will speak for me .
i came for him , risking my life every step of the way , and my reasons are my own .
for now you will simply accept my orders on this subject and keep silent , until i discover we discover , nikolai , i may not like having to accept your authority but i will work to find whoever is responsible for this , tares interrupted .
good .
now as i was saying my suspicions were confirmed with , nikolai paused briefly and decided against needling the minotaur priest any more than strictly necessary , laras input .
however , i still do not know exactly who the hand have sent .
i assume you are absolutely certain of the halflings loyalty ?
lord michael himself has vouched for her .
that is sufficient for me .
surprisingly it is sufficient for me also .
this means that we can not trust anyone until we are certain .
i dislike being less than candid with a prince of the realm , tares growled , and paused before continuing , wait .
you said that the hand had been hired to assassinate the royal family of saxenburg .
no i didnt say that , your prince of the realm jumped to that conclusion .
i didnt disabuse him of the notion .
but if you know its a lie , if his family is not in danger how can you not set his mind at ease ?
honestly , how nave can you be ?
nikolai asked incredulously .
i dont know if i can trust him .
i trust you because you were sent for him , but beyond you and our mutual friend i trust no one .
didnt your boss tell you why the two of us had been working together ?
that information was not deemed necessary for me to complete my mission , tares answered stiffly .
at tares answer nikolai laughed again , shaking his handsome head in disbelief .
you people are unbelievable , nikolai began when he finally finished laughing he and i had been working together for nearly two years .
we were on the trail of gossip , rumor , and innuendo and judging by what happened , id say we were getting pretty close to the truth .
this thing is bigger than saxenburg , bigger than some petty takeover scheme of the dark one or anyone else for that matter .
im not sure i know what you mean nikolai , tares stumbled over the name but forced himself to use it he would not be seen to be inferior in any way to the necromancer .
please stop , for both our sakes , go back to calling me necromancer , or bhaal spawn or whatever in the nine hells takes your fancy .
i cant bear to see you choking on my name one second longer .
as for what i mean , i dont know everything either but something big is being planned , a war certainly .
in saxenburg ?
oh forget about saxenburg .
didnt i just tell you this is bigger than just saxenburg ?
i dont have all the information yet , but i will get it .
i will finish my assignment or i will die in the attempt and you my righteous friend will help me .
but understand this , i decide who knows what and when and until i have more information we trust no one .
surely slade can be trusted tares began .
no , absolutely not , nikolai cut in , i have no proof that he can be trusted .
in fact some of my information points in exactly the opposite direction .
the hand is definitely trying to get to slade , and i dont know why , yet .
that alone is pause for thought .
think about it honestly tares , have you ever heard of someone escaping the hand ?
the very fact that slade is still breathing when the hand are obviously tracking him makes me doubt that he is , or ever was a target .
right now all i see is a pampered prince of the realm whos decided to play natures friend for a while .
apart from that look who he brings with him a so called royal bodyguard who was so good at his job he managed to lose the high king and yet somehow , still has his life ?
or what about the skinny wizard who can barely remember his own name let alone remember any magic .
he has supposedly been a prisoner of diablis and yet doesnt have one single lash mark ?
and even you tares , who did you bring to our little band ?
a halfling who admits to being a member of the hand , but is totally reformed now , nikolai held up one pale hand when he saw tares about to interrupt , i believe she probably has , your boss happens to be a very good judge of people .
just remember tares that anyone , even lord michael , can be fooled some of the time .
and leaving aside lara , you come in here with darzan , not just a known pirate but one of the best is ixlan ?
doesnt look terribly good now does it ?
although it galled the big minotaur to make the admission he was forced to see the truth in nikolais assessment of the situation .
if you suspect everyone why not just leave ?
tares asked curiously .
if it was up to me , nikolai answered his voice low yet bitter , i would , believe me .
unfortunately my orders are clear .
i dont understand why , and it does not mean that slade is automatically trustworthy , but for now i must stick with him .
as you are well aware , my boss has a particular talent for knowing things unknowable to ordinary people .
for whatever reason , the answers i seek will be found by travelling with slade .
that means you and i will follow his pointless quest until i receive instructions otherwise .
tares leaned back against the rough stone wall , thinking over all the necromancer had just revealed .
although tares sincerely doubted the necromancers motives he could not deny that the mage appeared to have been unusually candid with him .
furthermore the mages possession of the ring was a testament to the essential truthfulness of nikolais claims .
there remained , however , the matter of the document that tares had seen nikolai remove so furtively when they were still in the prison .
as the necromancer himself had said , anyone could be fooled even lord michael .
was it possible that nikolai had somehow tricked lord michael into giving him the ring , which the mage fully intended to use for his own perverted ends ?
the difficulty facing tares was the question of how to determine the true from the false .
a priest of greater power than he possessed would be able to call upon belenus to aid them in determining the truth .
tares however , although greatly gifted by the god in the art of healing , knew himself to be little more than a warrior in belenuss service .
if the necromancer had lied successfully to lord michael , a knight of tremendous power , then the big minotaur had no hope of determining through divine means if nikolai was lying to him .
tares would have to rely on his own wits , and hope and pray that if the necromancer was lying then he would somehow discover it , before it was too late .
you should get back there tares , in case our companions are as distrusting as you and come looking for you as well .
i need to meditate before we leave this place , but i want that to be soon .
tares could not hide the deep shudder that engulfed his entire body .
although he had only the vaguest idea of what the necromancers meditations might be tares knew enough to feel a deep revulsion at the black rites performed by those dedicated to the blood god bhaal .
before you go , nikolai continued , reaching once again into one of his many deep pockets , take a look at this .
i found it in luca 's office , he finished handing tares the very piece of parchment that the minotaur had observed him take earlier .
tares wordlessly accepted the small roll of parchment and unrolled it across his large knees .
although written in the common tongue the document made no sense to tares .
the scroll was divided into three columns .
a long list of apparently random numbers ran down the left hand side of the scroll , the column on the right had a list of place names .
the provinces , cities and towns were scattered throughout the kingdoms although on closer examination tares noted that the majority of the place names were either in laxdale or agios .
the centre column made the least sense of all a series of geometric shapes in a rainbow of different colors with no discernable pattern .
tares continued studying the document .
it must mean something , it had been found in the prison governors office and nikolai had taken the trouble to hide its existence from the others .
there had to be something here that the big minotaur could not see .
finally tares looked up to find nikolai leaning back against the wall , his eyes closed , apparently uninterested in the minotaurs thoughts about the document .
i do not understand , tares said finally , what does this mean ?
good question tares , nikolai said opening his eyes and smiling his smile , as always utterly repellent and cold despite the sensuousness of his full lips .
i have suspicions but i hope by every god in all the realms that im wrong , the necromancer continued .
why ?
tares asked , then winced , embarrassed by the harshness of his voice even as he realized that it stemmed from a growing sense of fear .
nikolai leaned forward , his eyes glittering the clear blue reminding tares horribly of the deep , pure waters of the southern sea off the coast of his homeland .
ill tell you something tares , war is coming , our investigations had proven that conclusively before , nikolai paused briefly , well before what happened .
but what we didnt know then , what we were trying to find out is the numbers and the people involved .
this isnt going to be an ordinary war tares and its not going to be fought in an ordinary way .
you encountered those things the dark one had in the prison but fortunately for you , you didnt actually have to actually fight them .
the rest of us did and ill tell you freely right now , as bhaal is my witness , we never would have survived that encounter without trunk , and how he managed to resist them ill never know .
belenus would have aided him , tares said .
you know what , nikolai answered with a small , hollow laugh , youre probably right .
i just hope he continues to aid him because if were going to succeed then were going to need every bit of aid we can get , no matter where it comes from .
the big minotaur chose not to respond to the blatant blasphemy against the crying god .
nikolais allegiance to bhaal was a sufficient blasphemy in itself and despite that lord michael had entrusted the necromancer with the ring of belenus .
i still do not understand , tares said waving the parchment slightly as if to draw nikolais attention back to the incomprehensible document .
take another good look at that thing and remember there is a war coming .
obediently tares bent his heavy bovine head to the parchment still not seeing whatever it was about this document that was so interesting to nikolai .
look , nikolai took the parchment from tares unresisting hands and pointed to the first of the three columns , notice how these numbers are all over the place , no sequence , nothing .
now if you look at this column , he said pointing now to the third column .
these are all place names right ?
so , we know , and believe me , nikolai held up one hand to stop tares from interrupting , we do know that war is coming .
so what if these names and numbers represent places the other side is planning to attack .
the numbers would then represent numbers of troops , or possibly regiments or something like that .
i mean obviously i cant be absolutely sure obviously but it does make sense .
given that we do know for certain the dark one is somehow involved , so what if those shapes in the centre column represent not only those weird octopus things but maybe other , even worse types of troops or monsters or who knows what ?
nikolai stopped because tares was shaking his large bovine head in a definite denial of the mages conclusions .
i do not disbelieve your assertion of a coming war , tares said quickly in response to nikolais unspoken question , however , this document can not function in the manner you described .
if you look closely at the place names you will notice that not only do they cover a vast area of the kingdoms but more importantly they are widely scattered .
most of the places named are located in agios or laxdale , but lying between those two kingdoms is the padyian empire .
no military commander would open two such large fronts with a possibly hostile force lying between .
unless you have other information ?
no , not really , nikolai answered quietly , obviously thinking , i believe that padyian may be involved but i have no proof .
thats one of the reasons why we went back to the badlands .
i dont really understand matters of war but i feel in my bones this parchment somehow relates to the war .
i can not see how it can be .
not only are the named places separated by padyian but they are wait , nikolai cut tares off , did you hear that ?
tares inclined his head trying to discern what had captured nikolais attention , unfortunately however his race was better known for their sense of smell than their hearing .
watching the necromancer , tares tried to gain some indication of where the noise was coming from by the mages posture but nikolai was as still as stone , listening intently .
suddenly tares heard the noise that had caught the mages attention .
it was a very low pitched chittering sound , seemingly coming from the very walls themselves , a sound tares easily recognized .
its just tunnel spiders , these walls are only hard packed earth here not stone , tares began , trailing off when he saw nikolais face turn a ghastly pale .
thats what i thought .
can you tell which way are they coming ?
nikolai stood abruptly staring back down the tunnel in the direction of the large clearing , his entire demeanor indicating total panic .
it appears to be coming towards us but do not be concerned .
these are very shy creatures , they are not likely to cause anyone any harm , again tares trailed off as nikolai began to run back towards the clearing .
nikolai , they are not dangerous , tares yelled after the running necromancer .
its not that , hes scared of them , nikolai yelled back , still running .
who is ?
tares questioned , finally running after the necromancer .
trunk .
of tunnel spiders ?
tares asked .
of all spiders !
tunnel spiders tares was so shocked by nikolais revelation he stopped dead in his tracks .
spiders , belenus knew , were hardly the most pleasant of the various creatures in the kingdoms but they were rarely dangerous .
even among the giant varieties , which included tunnel spiders , only a handful of them were poisonous specimens .
most spiders were not only harmless but like all woodland creatures were basically shy , steering clear of the humanoid races .
particularly so were the large and totally blind tunnel spiders , which possessed an uncanny ability to travel hundreds of miles underground tunneling from one place to another .
the big minotaur knew that bards and minstrels had long used giant spiders in their stories as monstrous atrocities waiting to prey on the unsuspecting and unwary but the reality was far removed from their lurid tales .
tunnel spiders did not deliberately seek out living flesh and devour it with foot long fangs dripping poison , holding their prey with hairy multiply jointed legs that gripped like the hardest steel .
to tares it was simply incomprehensible that a knight , a true servant of belenus and second in command to lord michael strong could possibly be afraid of spiders .
yet the big minotaur could no more deny that the necromancers fear , no , his panic , were very real .
these thoughts flashed through tares mind in less than a second before he once again began running after nikolai .
nikolai continued to accelerate , running so fast in fact , that when he brushed past darzan he knocked the beautiful pirate completely off her feet .
tares stopped briefly , bending down to assist the dark skinned woman to her feet , dropping the mysterious parchment as he did so , before he continued down the tunnel after the necromancer .
tares could hear the chittering of the tunnel spiders growing louder , obviously coming closer .
nikolai with tares just behind him , had just reached the mouth of the clearing when the first tunnel spider broke through the hard packed earthen wall .
to tares those first few seconds seemed to stretch out interminably , each image planted indelibly in his mind .
wulfstan and slade were both still sleeping against the near wall .
slade was curled on his side , almost in a fetal position and beside him wulfstan was lying on his back , one hand loosely gripping the hilt of his long sword .
beyond them , almost at the far mouth of the clearing , lara was sitting cross legged in front of trunk who was leaning back against the far wall .
roulibard was seated beside the ogre troll , directly across from the opening created by the first of the tunnel spiders .
it looked as though they were playing some kind of dice game , hardly surprising tares thought distractedly , as lara was inordinately fond of games .
behind him tares could hear darzans footsteps coming closer .
in front of him he could hear nikolais harsh panting as the necromancer realized he had been unable to prevent the inevitable .
just above wulfstans sleeping form the first tunnel spider broke through .
a huge hole , easily fifteen feet in diameter , opened up as if the tunnel wall had been little more than an illusion .
dirt and particles of rock sprayed all over the two sleeping figures .
even more dirt and rock was flung far into the clearing , propelled by the weight of the three feet high , five feet long tunnel spiders pushing towards the opening .
the first tunnel spider with its curiously attenuated , hard shelled , shiny body , stepped out through the newly opened hole , five feet above the ground .
tares knew that all tunnel spiders were blind the creatures tunneled endlessly through the ground searching for food .
this tunnel spider was unable to see that its tunneling had ended in midair .
slowly the first of the spiders fell and it seemed to the minotaurs frenzied imagination that everything happened at once .
the heavy spider landed upside down with a hard thud on wulfstans sleeping body , bringing the soldier instantly awake .
as wulfstan struggled to his feet , sword in hand , trunk looked up from the opposite wall and uttered a high pitched , undulating scream .
trunks scream , so loud and obviously fear filled , shocked almost everyone as they turned to stare at the enormous creature .
trunk was so unbelievably powerful and strong , carrying both troll and ogre characteristics , and yet he was screaming in utter terror at the sight of the tunnel spiders that were continuing to pour through the freshly dug hole .
nikolai raced towards trunk , side stepping a tunnel spider whose foot long antennae were flailing around in reaction to the extremely high pitch of trunks scream .
as the mage tried to close the distance between himself and trunk a second tunnel spider , moving with remarkable speed for such a large creature , began running towards the sound of the screams .
most likely , tares thought , the spider wanted to put an end to the irritating sound .
as it crossed nikolais path the spiders body tripped the necromancer driving him heavily to the ground .
the mage hit the unforgiving ground very hard , emitting a grunt of pain , ending up in a tangle with the tunnel spider that had caused his fall .
as nikolai struggled with the spider both slade and wulfstan seemed to snap out of their frozen shock .
wulfstan drew his sword and immediately cleaved one spider in two with the large blade while slade drew forth his two matching katanas from the brace on his back .
lara , caught unarmed and unprepared , turned to face a tunnel spider that was almost as tall as she was and was considerably longer , heavier and extremely agitated by the noise trunk was continuing to make .
as the spider opened and closed its round mouth , exposing its razor sharp fangs the halfling woman screamed , a piercing note that seemed to be almost a counterpoint to trunks continuing screams of terror .
trunk reacted instantly to laras scream , scooping up the halfling woman and cradling her against his broad green chest as though she were a baby .
nikolai finally managed to regain his footing , his hands searching his belt for the small dagger that thanks to his magic he rarely had to use but kept nonetheless for emergencies .
his hand closed over the empty sheath and the necromancer realized the blade itself must have slipped out during his fall .
looking around wildly , while still trying to keep one eye on the giant tunnel spider in front of him , nikolai saw the blade lying on the ground behind the spider .
out of the corner of his eye the necromancer could see trunk , who was still screaming , now standing frozen in fear .
as the ogre troll was cradling lara it appeared the halfling woman was trying to calm the huge creature down .
nikolai shook his head in sheer frustration .
under normal circumstances he knew that his friend would have fought down the fear , fighting at his side and the two of them would easily have dispatched a gang of tunnel spiders .
at that thought nikolai almost laughed out loud .
they were a long way from normal circumstances and despite the reassurances of his mentor , lord nexus the necromancer doubted if they would ever return to normal circumstances again .
not for the first time the mage cursed his own inadequacy .
that someone he had come to consider a valued friend and a trusted companion should be subjected to the indignities that trunk was forced to endure while nikolai remained unable to help was absolutely insupportable .
preoccupied with these thoughts nikolai had not noticed tares approaching the spider from behind while the necromancer had been edging around the creature in an attempt to reach his dagger .
only the sudden rush of air when the minotaur cleric raised his enormous mace alerted nikolai to the priests presence .
the necromancer barely had time to jump back out of the way as the huge weapon snapped the tunnel spiders broad back in two , splattering spider blood and guts in a wide arc .
thanks , nikolai said with a smile , but we have to get him out of here and quick .
agreed , tares looked around him .
more of the tunnel spiders were pouring through the hole in the wall their numbers making even a clearing this large seem crowded .
nikolai and tares both knew that tunnel spiders always travelled in family gangs of anywhere between twenty and thirty members .
although it appeared that wulfstan and slade were more than capable , in spite of their exhaustion , to deal with the minimal threat posed by the huge blind spiders there was no question they were both distracted by trunks continual screams and obvious fear .
although neither of them was as distracted as roulibard and darzan appeared to be neither of them had moved since the ogre troll first began screaming .
they would have to get trunk far enough away from the spiders to calm the giant creature down .
unfortunately trunk was standing near the opening of the tunnel leading back towards the prison and the rapidly growing population of tunnel spiders stood between him and the opening leading outside .
roulibard had been shocked by trunks reaction to the tunnel spiders .
the young mage had no love for the creatures either but they were blind and in spite of their size easily killed .
as he stood watching the others dealing so efficiently with the growing numbers of spiders roulibard cursed his own uselessness .
he had woken into this nightmare two days ago , his memory ripped to shreds .
he knew his name , knew he was a wizard , and his understanding of the world appeared intact .
roulibard remembered the names of the three moons , sapphire , ruby and opal , and that they had been named after three of the principal goddesses .
he remembered the political situation of kaynos he knew that the high elves of the kingdom of kodeshka were amenable to trade with the rest of the kingdoms but that the wild elves of the kingdom of lashandra refused contact with any outsiders , including the high elves .
he remembered that the three human kingdoms of ixlan , saxenburg and brikenwald were in some ways even more divided than the elven kingdoms .
that ixlan and saxenburg , for example , were bitter enemies .
the young mage had even recognized in slade the former crown prince of saxenburg .
all this roulibard remembered .
however , how he had come to be in ixlan , let alone inside diablis prison , in fact every memory or detail of his life previously was completely and utterly gone and he had no idea why .
the others , roulibard knew , assumed he had been a prisoner in diablis but roulibard was sure that he had not been imprisoned and his lack of scars seemed to support his belief .
the young mage could not be sure but he believed that whatever he had been was something far stranger than merely a prisoner .
throughout the prison break roulibard had tried to be useful .
although even he had to admit that without magic and lacking any skills with weapons the young mage was afraid that wulfstan was correct in his assessment of roulibard , he was worse than useless .
for reasons that the young mage was unable to define he knew in some way that he desperately needed to be a part of this group .
he also knew that he absolutely had to get out of diablis prison .
even though he could not consciously remember anything of his time within those walls , roulibard felt a deep sense of fear bordering on terror at the prospect of remaining here .
now , they were faced with this situation and the young mage found himself again with nothing to add and unable to help .
roulibard was certain , deep in his soul , that if he proved to be a liability too often slade would eventually heed wulfstans advice and cut him out of the group to fend for himself .
the young mage could not allow that happen .
nikolai , having retrieved his dagger , was edging backwards with tares in an attempt to create a barrier between trunk and the tunnel spiders , which had finally ceased coming through the wall .
slade and wulfstan were working together on the opposite side of the clearing .
darzan had finally recovered from her paralyzed shock and was now battling the spiders .
lara was still trying to calm trunk down , talking quietly to the ogre troll but unfortunately it appeared her efforts were making little impression and trunks high pitched terrified screams continued .
spinning around nikolai searched for something that would help them herd the spiders away , not only from trunk but also from the tunnel leading outside .
if trunk were to be confronted with spiders in the confined space of the tunnel there was no way of knowing what might happen .
we have to get him away from here , nikolai yelled , trying to make himself heard above trunks screaming and the increasingly agitated noises of the tunnel spiders .
take him back down the tunnel , slade bellowed in reply , well deal with the spiders here .
i cant do that , if i take him out that way hell never come back here , nikolai shouted .
so then leave him there .
who cares ?
wulfstan yelled back .
absolutely not !
slade shouted quickly .
id rather feed you to the spiders , nikolai answered wulfstan in disgust , although the necromancer had been surprised at the vehemence of slades negative reply .
fine , wulfstan replied , smarting at nikolais reply , then what exactly do you suggest we do then ?
i dont know , nikolai wailed in sheer frustration .
fire , roulibard said from behind nikolai , spiders are afraid of fire !
fabulous idea , but in case you hadnt noticed weve got four torches burning as well as a campfire and so far that doesnt seem to be bothering the spiders one bit , wulfstan said sarcastically .
roulibard flushed a deep red with embarrassment .
the young mage knew exactly what he had meant but the warrior had still managed to completely misconstrue his suggestion and , in doing so , had managed to make roulibard sound like a total fool .
one day , the young mage vowed , he would wipe the smug , arrogant smirk off wulfstans face and force the soldier to acknowledge his power .
thoughts flashed through the young mages mind , with blinding speed , of various things he would like to do , or see done , to wulfstan surprising roulibard in their intensity and brutality .
clenching his fists roulibard tried to rid his mind of the dreadful images and concentrate instead on dealing with the tunnel spiders .
nikolai suddenly spun around to face roulibard .
something had happened but the necromancer could not immediately work out what it was it had felt like a surge of power .
something incredibly strong that nikolai had only encountered a few times before , but surely it could not have come from this scrawny , non descript excuse for a wizard .
nikolai looked closely at roulibards face , seeing embarrassment , injured pride and something else , something the necromancer could not readily define .
before nikolai had a chance to puzzle it out an enormous fireball exploded and the whole clearing erupted in flames .
nikolai staggered back , the super heated air burning his lungs .
incredibly the huge fireball had dropped cleanly along the opposite wall from where trunk was standing , incinerating all the remaining spiders in the process .
the flames were so intense that the moldy straw , rotten blankets , along with most of their provisions had been reduced to ashes as well as the spiders .
the wall trunk was leaning against was free from the raging fire all the way to the other end of the clearing , giving trunk , lara and roulibard a clear passage to the tunnel leading outside .
darzan , thanks to her position at the mouth of the tunnel , also had a clear passage through the flames .
nikolai had also miraculously escaped the effects of the fireball , however , wulfstan , slade and tares had not been so lucky .
tares had been at the very edge of the blaze .
the flames had rapidly burned through his chain shirt and ignited the linen tunic he wore underneath .
slades ancient quarterstaff was ablaze and there were small tongues of flame licking the front of the young druids linen overshirt .
both the minotaur and slade staggered backwards , dropping to the hard floor and rolling to extinguish the flames .
wulfstan was not so lucky .
he appeared to be completely engulfed by the flames , his screams of pain filling the sudden gap left by trunks abrupt silence .
although nikolai could cheerfully have left the royal bodyguard to his uncomfortable fate he was well aware that neither slade , nor tares would approve of such a course of action .
regardless of his personal feelings , nikolai was going to have to do something , the question was , what ?
behind him he could hear roulibard muttering very softly under his breath , something which sounded like what have i done ?
roulibards whispered comment confirmed the necromancers half formed suspicion that the amnesiac mage had caused the huge fireball .
nikolais mind was racing , although only seconds had passed he knew if they did not act soon the situation , bad as it already was , would become completely out of control .
run , everybody just run for the exit , nikolai screamed as loud as possible , hoping that the others would hear him over the roar of the flames .
the necromancer could see no answer other than flight .
as he began to run nikolai wondered whether or not wulfstan would even be capable of following his instructions assuming the soldier had heard him over the roaring noise .
yet the heat from the flames combined with the acrid smoke was making the whole clearing area toxic .
if they did not perish in the fire they would surely die from breathing the increasingly poisonous atmosphere .
tares fought to retain his concentration against the pain from the flames and the burning in his lungs .
he had heard nikolais shouted instruction and observed the necromancer begin running for the exit .
as the minotaur spun around he saw at a glance that wulfstan , engulfed in the fierce heat of the flames , was unable to follow the mages life saving order .
muttering hurried and frenzied prayers to belenus under his breath tares was torn , he would surely die if he entered the flames to try and rescue the soldier , and that would serve no purpose .
reluctantly , yet accepting that sacrifice was a natural part of life , the minotaur turned away from the flames and began to run after nikolai .
the big minotaur had barely begun to move when he noticed trunk walking slowly and purposefully , straight into the flames towards wulfstan .
nikolai , come !
trunks clear ringing tones stopped not only tares , but also the necromancer in their tracks , we save friend now !
trunk continued to walk calmly into the flames as tares watched in horror .
trunk was half ogre and half troll , and the woodland trolls were unbelievably resilient creatures , extremely strong and capable of incredible feats of self repair that other beings could only hope to emulate .
yet despite their strengths they were extremely vulnerable to only two things , acid and fire .
as tares watched he could see the flames licking at trunks green skin and , as though he were viewing the scene in slow motion , tares could see the skin of the giant creature melting off his huge body like candle wax from the flames and heat .
trunk , no , you cant , nikolai screamed incoherently as he stopped running and saw trunk walking resolutely into the flames .
tares could feel his enormous heart pounding inside his chest .
in minutes or less trunk would be consumed by the fire and the soldier , screaming from the agony of being burned alive , would still die .
from behind him tares heard nikolai , mutter a truly foul oath before running into the flames after trunk .
the minotaur priest could not even begin to comprehend the magnitude of the necromancers act of self sacrifice .
nikolai was risking his life , and not , tares knew to save wulfstan .
the young soldiers arrogance was plain to all and nikolais growing disdain for wulfstan was equally obvious .
the necromancer was risking everything for trunk , because the giant creature was risking his own life , nikolai had returned to save the ogre troll .
it was , tares knew , an action worthy of a knight of belenus although the minotaur knew he would never tell nikolai that .
tares spun around as roulibard , still standing frozen in the same position he had been in since the attack began , screamed loudly , as though he too were in pain .
before tares could even begin to pray to belenus , pure , clear , icy cold water poured down from nowhere .
the inexplicable rain extinguished all the flames and soothed the burns on tares back .
although tares automatically offered a prayer of thanks to belenus he knew well that the mysterious rain , which had already begun to slow to a drizzle , did not come in answer to any divine prayer of his .
despite the fact that the flames had lasted merely minutes wulfstan , trunk and nikolai had all been severely burned .
tares reached out to touch nikolai , who despite his burns still emanated the strange cold , and began to pray for the necromancers healing , putting off the moment when he would have to turn his attention to the horrifically burned wulfstan .
the hidden palace the reception room , like all of the rooms in the hidden palace , was exceptionally large , and very luxuriously furnished .
despite huge windows all of the hidden palace was generally kept in a state of semi darkness , as though the dark one could not bear the light .
today it was lit only by small , glowing crystals placed strategically around the room .
first time visitors to the hidden palace were always surprised by the palaces elegance not that there were many first time visitors , the dark one valued his privacy above all else and so visitors were not encouraged .
still , those few who did enter the private sanctum of the dark one could not fail to be astonished at the beauty of the palace he had created .
if it were to become known throughout the kingdoms it would surely be listed among those other wonders of beauty such as the elven city of specularum or the elaborate mazes of the kingdom of kemet .
yet of course , it was not , and never would be well known .
the dark one had no interest in the location or treasures of his hidden palace becoming public knowledge .
arndern walked across the mosaic floor barely glancing at the beautiful scenes depicted there , he was a frequent visitor to this room although never a comfortable one .
arndern had been born into slavery as part of the dark ones household thirty summers ago , the son of one of the many women who served the dark ones most intimate needs .
most of the slaves in ixlan were villagers , primarily fishermen and their families .
a few , however , a very special few , were brought to the hidden palace to become a part of the dark ones household .
thembelani , arnderns mother , had been one of them .
she had long ago captured the attention of one of the dark ones many lieutenants with her striking beauty .
arndern alone knew the true reason behind his mothers captivating looks and would never betray that secret , for if the dark one knew that one of his concubines was half elven he would surely have her executed .
the dark ones hatred of what he termed half breeds was legendary .
time itself would soon enough betray her heritage , already she was nearing fifty summers yet her face and body still remained as lithe and unlined as a young girl .
the dark one was not a fool he would soon know the reason for her youthful countenance .
it was in hopes of saving his beloved mother that arndern had eventually chosen the dangerous path he now walked , for arndern was a spy and not only for the dark one .
reaching the approximate centre of the room arndern knelt on the floor , head bowed while he waited for the dark one , either to speak or to appear , even after all these years arndern was never sure which one it was .
as he knelt there arndern wondered at himself , that he would dare to spy on the dark one .
a man so immured in evil he no longer had a name , just a well deserved reputation for unspeakable acts of cruelty .
a man so divorced from humanity that he could enslave his fellow beings , treating people as nothing more than pieces of property , to be used or discarded according to his own needs .
at times arndern was astounded at his own daring , yet , in his heart , he knew the true reason he had accepted the offer from lord nexus he had no other choice .
arndern , as always the dark ones voice was a shock low pitched with a pleasant , almost musical lilt , it was not what you expected to hear , i hope you return to me with good news .
news master , i know not whether it be good or bad , arndern replied keeping his head bowed .
as always arndern you manage to amuse me , the dark one answered with a low and musical chuckle , i sometimes wonder just how far your cleverness truly extends .
i hope it does not exceed that which is good for you , now his voice held a hint of steel , the tiniest indication of veiled threat .
beyond his power to stop it arndern felt sweat break out upon his brow and a tremor rippled through his slim body .
the first years of arndern 's life , unlike the vast majority of the other slave children in ixlan , had been pleasant and carefree , spent in luxury in the hidden palace with his mother .
he had not , at that tender age , known the truth of the ugly circumstances of his birth .
as his tenth year approached arndern noticed his mother becoming increasingly distracted , watching him for hours at a time her beautiful eyes filling silently with tears .
though arndern had questioned thembelani repeatedly about her ever increasing sadness she had always put him off and reassured him with silly excuses .
it had not been through his mother that arndern had learned the true reason behind her sorrow one of the harem guards had told arndern the fate that awaited him when his tenth summer was over .
all male children in the hidden palace , arndern was told , were ritually gelded at the close of their tenth summer , their genitals offered in sacrifice to vadatajs .
those who lived through the ritual were returned to work in the hidden palace but many of them died , their broken bodies tossed into the sea as shark food .
in that short , horror filled conversation arndern had understood why his mother was so preoccupied and upset .
he had learnt the true nature of his own existence .
that he and his mother thembelani were nothing more than slaves .
they were the dark ones property in the same manner one would own a cup or a sword .
although at that time he had not yet grown to manhood arndern had made a vow that day .
not to vadatajs , the only deity he had ever been permitted to worship , but to belenus , the forbidden god of sacrifice and mercy whose teachings arndern had been encouraged to mock and scorn .
arndern vowed in his heart that should he survive the ritual he would spend the remainder of his life searching for a way to destroy the dark one .
he had vowed that he would put an end to the dark ones practice of trading people as though they were nothing more than animals or produce .
arndern , however , had not reckoned with his mothers single minded determination , nor the lengths to which she was prepared to go in order to save her only son from the horror and possible consequences of the ritual .
as the dark ones favorite concubine thembelani had risked everything including her very life , in an attempt to bring arndern to the attention of the formidable ruler .
once that goal had been achieved arndern 's own native intelligence and cunning had secured a future for them both .
in arndern , the dark one had found many desirable qualities a quick intellect , a knack for finding information and knowing things he was not supposed to know and a curiously indefinable personality .
all of which had combined to make arndern the perfect spy .
despite his hatred for the dark one , arndern had performed his duties exceptionally well , so well that he had eventually come to the notice of lord nexus , the only person it was said that the dark one feared .
by accepting nexuss service arndern risked his life at every moment of every day , but the risk was well worth it for the promise nexus offered of finally destroying , forever , the dark one and his tyrannical regime .
as these thoughts and memories flashed rapidly through his mind arndern , still kneeling with his head bowed , could almost feel the steady , speculative gaze of the dark one upon him .
arndern had a brief , terror filled moment of wondering if the dark one had managed to master these new powers of the mind .
the gods all knew that the elven witch shallendara was a frequent visitor to the hidden palace , always in the dark ones company .
even as the thought crossed his mind arndern knew it could not be true , if it were he would be dead already .
well , clever you may be , the dark one said softly , but you remain respectful .
so what is this news , you know not whether it be good or bad , that you bring ?
the creature called trunk lives , he escaped with the prisoners , arndern answered not daring to raise his head .
although he did not know why , arndern knew that this creature posed a great threat to the dark one .
a serious enough threat that his master wanted the creature dead yet was unwilling or unable to act directly against the ogre troll , operating instead in a roundabout fashion that made little sense .
arndern knew his master well though there would be a very good reason why the dark one did not simply kill this trunk .
all he wanted to know was whether that reason could be used for the benefit of arndern , and his mother .
i see .
at the dark ones comment , arndern risked a quick glance up at his master whose back was turned towards him .
he was surprised to hear a note of , not fear exactly but certainly disquiet in the dark ones otherwise level tones .
and what of the other ?
the dark one continued after a brief pause .
the necromancer also , your informant was able to leave a list of names arndern began to reach into the pocket of his vest for the parchment left behind but the dark one cut him off .
i have no interest whatsoever in any of the others , the dark one said harshly .
so , they are together again , he continued , his voice once again low and dangerous , and yet , i believe my instructions were clear , surely there can have been no misunderstanding .
it would appear that someone has deliberately disobeyed .
the dark one turned and arndern saw for the first time that the wizard , malachi , the dark ones current chief lieutenant was also in the room .
bring him to me , the dark one ordered malachi before turning once again to arndern saying , you have done well as always , you may go .
yes master , arndern replied and began backing out of the reception room in a semi crouch without raising his head , eager to escape quickly from the dark ones palpable rage .
there was no need to ask who him was .
arndern knew exactly who it was the dark one had sent malachi to fetch , luca , the prisons governor and the only one who could truly be held responsible for allowing the creature called trunk to escape .
as arndern jogged down the corridors to his own set of rooms he wondered at the human governors folly .
luca would certainly die for his treachery , and slowly , in ways that were too horrific to even think about .
arndern cursed himself that he did not know why luca had taken such an enormous risk .
the escape of trunk , the necromancer , luca 's treachery , any one of these things could easily have driven the dark one into a towering rage , all of them combined had made his fury terrible to behold and yet arndern , deep in his secret heart , cheered .
in some indefinable way arndern sensed that events were drawing close to a time when the dark one would be vulnerable , a time when he could finally be destroyed once and for all .
run for your life while tares began to pray over the charred and blackened , yet still breathing form of wulfstan , lara decided to use the time to go through what was left of their meager possessions in order to determine if there was anything that could still be salvaged .
as she worked the halfling woman carefully avoided looking in wulfstans direction .
the burns that the soldier had sustained were beyond anything she had ever seen before , even during her long career as an assassin with the silent hand .
wulfstan was easily the most badly burned with trunk a close second , the large creatures skin , almost liquefied by the heat of the flames , now oozing and puddling at his enormous bare feet .
fighting down her nausea the halfling woman was determined not to watch and not to think about those horrible injuries and concentrate instead on finding anything useful that may have escaped the flames .
unfortunately the fire that had reduced the soldier and the ogre troll to their present conditions had also wrecked its havoc among their belongings .
clothing , armor , weapons and what small amount of stored food they had carried with them , virtually all of it was completely incinerated .
in all her scrounging lara found only two salvageable items , a small dagger with an elaborately worked hand guard that was obviously more decorative than functional although she could not readily remember where it had come from .
the dagger had been on the edges of where the firestorm had broken out , which explained how it had been spared destruction .
the halfling woman had also found a delicate gold locket , missing its chain , cut in a perfect oval shape with the initials p.s.d .
carved on the face .
lara tried but could not get the locket to open .
as neither object could be considered terribly helpful in their present situation she slipped both items into her pocket old habits die hard .
lara had been aware of the near continuous murmur of tares prayers on the edges of her hearing ever since the unnatural rain had fallen , first praying over nikolai and now wulfstan .
sitting nearby , and wondering what to do next , laras sharp ears caught another sound , a sound she could not immediately identify .
standing up slowly lara tried to ascertain where the noise was coming from .
lara faced one of the earthen walls and saw a tiny crack forming in one of the heavy wooden support beams holding up the roof of the tunnel .
that was the sound she had heard .
the cracking sounds of the wood , giving way under the pressure of hard packed dirt that had been rapidly exposed to intense heat followed by icy water .
the earthen structure was beginning to collapse they had to get out of here and fast .
um , tares , lara began in a whisper , not taking her eyes off the small crack , which was widening even as she watched .
tares , we really need to get outta here , lara tried again , forcing herself to speak normally .
lara , i can not concentrate if you interrupt me , now please tares admonished the halfling woman .
but tares , lara interrupted , although she knew the minotaur priest needed quiet to concentrate properly she could see clearly that the threat of the tunnels collapse was imminent .
lara , please , i need to concentrate so you must wait until i have finished , tares said with more irritation than he had ever shown her before .
since his accidental and out of control act of magic roulibard had been trying to stay very much in the background but he was caught by the urgency in laras voice .
following her gaze on the opposite wall roulibard soon spied the widening crack in the support beam and instantly understood the urgency of the situation .
tares , weve got a real problem here , roulibard said as he moved towards the minotaur priest .
yes we have a critically injured man and others with severe burns and i need to concentrate in order to heal them , which i can not do if i am continually interrupted , tares answered brusquely .
no tares , i mean we have another problem , the young mage grabbed tares by the arm and forced him around to face the cracking support beam , weve all got to get out of here now , this thing could come down any second .
tares turned , annoyed , but finally saw what lara and roulibard had been trying to tell him .
looking around him wildly the minotaur priest noted that the beam lara was watching so intently was not the only support beam beginning to crack .
in an instant tares understood what was happening .
the superheated flames followed by icy water , all of which had hit that wall directly were turning the hard packed earth into a potential landslide , which would effectively bury them all alive .
glancing back at the still unconscious form of wulfstan , the minotaur franticly searched his mind for an answer .
obviously they would all have to get out , not just of the clearing but clear the entire tunnel complex and it was essential they do so now .
wulfstan , however , could not walk , trunk and nikolai were both still badly burned and while he might be able to carry wulfstan tares knew he would never be strong enough to carry the soldier and run as well .
trunk want out now , trunk go home , the big creature solved tares problem by bending down and gently cradling the fallen wulfstan in his arms .
thank you trunk , tares said gravely , once again astounded at the capacity for understanding exhibited by the ogre troll , everybody , we have to leave here immediately , he continued only to be cut off by lara .
he means run everyone .
run like your life depends on it , cause it probably does , the halfling had not even finished speaking before she began streaking down the tunnel towards the exit .
immediately behind her was trunk , holding wulfstan carefully yet still maintaining a high speed .
darzan and roulibard began running while slade and tares went to assist nikolai , next to wulfstan and trunk he had sustained the most severe burns , and tares had not yet been able to heal them all .
leave me , i can manage , just run .
we cant be caught in here and you cant afford to wait for me if i dont make it , nikolai said harshly , just go !
he yelled , brushing off both their offers of help to begin a staggering run of his own down the tunnel after the others .
the flight out of the long tunnel was a nightmare .
with three members of their group badly wounded and everyone exhausted each step forward was a minor miracle .
together they staggered , stumbling onwards , walking more often than running , propelled forward only by the continuing cracks in the support beams of the tunnel .
slades heart was pounding in his chest , his legs felt like molten lead and a stitch in his side was sending ripples of pain throughout his body .
he longed to simply lie down and die and end the pain but he couldnt .
he was driven forward by love of , and fear for , his father , king erich .
twice slade had slipped , tripping under the weight of his own exhaustion , and twice someone had been there to drag him to his feet .
behind him slade could hear the tunnels noisy collapse .
now they knew no one could be following them , slade thought hysterically .
after what felt like an eternity the cunningly disguised opening came into view .
just before the exit another largish clearing had been cut out of stone into a rough semi circle .
the stone walls meant they would be safe her for a while .
wulfstans burns were so severe they had incinerated all the clothes on his back .
trunks tough skin was still oozing and slimy from the flames .
slade fortunately had only minor burns on his hands and chest but nikolai had severe burns on his face , arms , legs and chest , his overshirt was so badly burned it was stuck to his skin .
how the mage had managed the long run out of the tunnel slade had no idea .
tares , although much stronger than the escaping prisoners , still felt the weight of their flight in every one of his bones and wanted nothing more than to lie down and sleep , preferably for a very long time .
he was , however , the only healer among the group , he had seriously wounded that needed his prayers .
not to mention they would now have to find a way of replacing their damaged and lost equipment .
tares could see slades exhaustion as the former crown prince slumped to the ground , his back to the cold stone .
lara , i need to stay here and try to finish healing wulfstan , trunk and nikolai but obviously we can not stay within this tunnel any longer than absolutely necessary , he began gravely watching the halfling woman .
yeah , and once hes walking again he cant be walking around buck naked so i need to go out and get us some stuff , lara answered , panting slightly from the long run but still with an impish grin on her tiny face .
tares refrained , with difficulty , from reprimanding her at this time but that would not stop him from continuing to pray that lara began taking her responsibilities a little more seriously .
quite , tares said , i need you and darzan if you will go also , tares turned to the dark skinned pirate and waited for her affirmative nod before continuing , to go into the city and see if you can find us some clothes , food and equipment .
sure , wheres the gold ?
lara asked holding out her small hand .
tares almost cursed in sheer frustration , his money pouch had been with the rest of his belongings , now burnt to cinders in the clearing .
tares buried his face in his hands , he could not believe the position he had now found himself in , that he would have to order lara to steal to resupply them , yet what choice did he have .
im afraid there is no gold lara , you will have to tares could not bring himself to say the words aloud .
its cool , bully , sorry , tares , i was just teasing you , ive still got my money pouch , lara said smilingly showing off the leather pouch still around her neck .
tares we have much bigger problems than money , darzan interrupted from where she was standing near the exit of the tunnel .
problems ?
the festival , tares .
by my calculations , darzan paused to crane her head closer towards the tunnel exit , were way past noon , which means the festivals bound to be really getting started .
im not sure if it will be possible to slip through the crowds unnoticed .
by now someones bound to have figured out that a group of people escaped from the prison .
even if we can slip through the crowns and if no one knows about mine or laras involvement , theres not likely to be anyone around to help us , how did you put it ?
re provision us ?
i dont think itll happen , not today anyway and probably not tomorrow either .
well be better off holing up here or somewhere close and waiting it out for a while .
nikolai heard tares growl under his breath , the festival of the sun ascension would logically be a sore point with the minotaur priest , devoted as he was to the crying god , belenus .
the necromancer believed the festival would prove to be a valuable tool .
that was actually the reason why nikolai had hoped he would be able to orchestrate the prison break to coincide with the festival .
they could not afford to wait any longer than was absolutely necessary but darzan , the necromancer knew , was correct in her assessment of the merchant district .
at this stage of the festival there would be no one tending the markets or street stalls to buy from , making laras gold redundant .
the idea of stealing their supplies did not bother nikolai .
in fact he saw a certain irony in having the dark ones lust , blood and alcohol fueled citizens pay to help them escape his clutches .
unfortunately nikolai knew that tares would not see the situation in the same light .
nikolai needed only to convince tares , he was sure that lara and darzan , one a former assassin and the other a pirate , would have no problem with stealing what they required or with using the festival as a diversion while they escaped .
tares , we need to speak , nikolai said , pushing himself away from the stone wall and wincing at the harsh pain in his torso from his burns , privately .
whats with all the secrets nikolai ?
lara asked suspiciously .
it is all right lara .
i will speak with nikolai , stay here .
you and darzan do what you can to make wulfstan as comfortable as possible .
slade , tares turned to the former prince still slumped with his eyes closed against the stone wall , if you think are capable perhaps you and roulibard could go outside and see if you can get an idea of where we are in relation to the harbor and the city ?
the big minotaur then followed nikolai a short way down the passage they had so recently fled from , the noise of the tunnels collapse becoming louder .
tares wondered briefly if the sounds could be heard above ground , or even if the effects of the tunnels collapse could be seen .
tares could only pray to belenus that the tunnel no longer presented a threat .
tares , we need that stuff and we need it as soon as possible .
darzans right about the festival creating problems but nikolai began once they were out of earshot of the others .
you wish me to condone or allow stealing ?
from people who are practically slaves ?
tares interrupted his disdain plainly evident in his voice .
no , nikolai answered with a smile , i will not now , nor will i ever , ask the impossible of you my distrustful ally .
i will give that particular order .
im asking you , and it is a request , not an order , to trust me .
i had planned for this occasion and i understand those people out there in a way that you never can .
i know how best to exploit the situation so that we can get our mutual friend out of here and back to lord michael .
that is your plan ?
to go to saxenburg and see lord michael ?
tares asked , astonished .
thats always been my plan .
this may surprise you tares but im determined to see that no further harm comes to him .
the only way i know to do that is to take him , as quickly as possible , to the one person who may be able to help , lord michael strong .
once again the minotaur was surprised if nikolai was trying to conceal something it seemed hardly likely that he would want to see lord michael .
tares was being forced to concede , albeit reluctantly , that the necromancer was being truthful for now at least .
and what of slade ?
well be taking him exactly where he wants to go , once i receive more instructions from your boss then we can make other decisions but for now we need to focus on one thing at a time .
i told you war was coming , it is , i dont know how soon but i have a sense its coming quicker than wed like .
i need to be in a position to be effective but to do that i need our friend with me .
that makes him my number one priority , keeping an eye on slade , or helping him , nikolai held up a hand to forestall tares interruption , is also important but thats secondary .
now , will you listen to my plan ?
tares eyed at the necromancer for a long moment without speaking .
instinctively the minotaur priest distrusted everything about nikolai and yet he could not deny that the mage had been helpful , forthright and was definitely working under the instructions of lord michael .
the necromancers information and actions appeared completely genuine and even admirable .
abruptly the big minotaur made up his mind , although he would never have dreamed it possible tares would work with the necromancer and do anything he could to help .
yes , i will listen and i will help , tares answered finally .
erichs departure ursula slipped silently into the small , barely visible fissure in the rock only just in time .
mere seconds passed after she disappeared into the hidden cave before the patrol of saxenburg guards had reached the exact spot where she now stood hidden , hardly daring to breathe , waiting for them to pass .
the four burly guards were all wearing the plate mail armor of the royal house of saxenburg , carrying long swords and the traditional round shields emblazoned with saxenburgs symbol of a phoenix about to take flight .
they also bore a new symbol that she could not see clearly but resembled a crystal surrounded by a rainbow of light .
to her mounting horror the four stopped right outside the tiny cave where ursula was hiding .
theres no sign of her anywhere , said one of them , speaking to the largest and , judging by the thin gold band rimming his shield , the most senior of the guards .
she has to be here somewhere , people dont just disappear into thin air , the large guard replied .
well began one of the others , who was quite young and probably new to his position .
except mages , the leader growled , which we all know our little princess is not .
that means she has to be here somewhere .
i was going to say maybe she branched off further down the path , the younger one replied .
no , im certain i saw her take this path , the leader answered emphatically .
yes , but with all due respect we know that the princess has been training for years with the monks .
we all know how quickly and silently monks can move .
its obvious shes not here and this is the only path this far up the mountain , so we must have either lost her further down as gunnar suggested , the fourth guard spoke for the first time , or possibly she has doubled back and due to some tricks of the monks we missed seeing her .
tall and broad shouldered with flaming red hair that reminded ursula of her father , she recognized this particular guard as a member of her fathers elite personal bodyguards although she could not for the moment remember his name .
for a split second it seemed to ursula that this guard looked directly into the fissure in the rock that he could somehow see through the camouflage to the nearly invisible opening .
well have to go back then but i want you two , the leader of the patrol said pointing to the young guard named gunnar and the other , familiar guard , to keep heading up the mountain .
if she makes it to solomon before we find her king ulrich will not be pleased .
her heart in her throat ursula watched through the thin slit as the foursome split up .
the young guard named gunnar and his companion stood watching as the other two moved down the path .
you head up the path .
keep going till you meet up with the guards stationed near the entrance to the monastery , im going to have a better look around here , the familiar guard pointed to the thick brush opposite where ursula was hiding , it is possible she slipped into the brush somewhere and is hiding out .
but shouldnt we stay together to check ?
gunnar questioned .
that wont be necessary , it shouldnt take too long .
theres not many spots on this old mountain where anyone could hide but its still worth looking at , ill catch you up .
the young guard named gunnar obediently moved off , heading up the path that would lead him directly to the black lotus monastery .
your highness ?
can you hear me ?
the guard called softly once gunnar was out of earshot .
ursula felt her blood had turned to ice her suspicions were confirmed , he knew she was there .
im a friend , your highness , i mean you no harm , he continued , his voice low , if i had i wouldnt have sent the other guards away .
why would you do this ?
ursula whispered .
im a member of saxenburgs royal guard , its my duty to protect the royal family , he moved so that he was standing closer to the fissure yet still facing in the opposite direction , your highness i want to help you .
ursula wanted desperately to believe the young guard but recent events had proven to her , all too clearly , that not everyone was as they appeared and not everyone could be trusted .
if that is true then you will help me get to the monastery .
i need to get to solomon , she said .
solomon has already left , the monastery is under your brothers control and the monks , along with everyone else loyal to your father have been expelled from saxenburg .
what ?
can this really be true ?
im afraid so your majesty but these tunnels also connect up with the kemetian mountain range .
solomon will meet up with you somewhere in the caverns .
you must not , under any circumstances travel any further up the mountain .
there are guards posted at the monastery , you must not allow them to discover these tunnels .
they will come looking for you anyway when you do not arrive as expected .
i dont know the way down , i only know this path to the monastery .
i understand your highness unfortunately i can offer you no further assistance .
rest assured that solomon will be waiting for you , i have no doubt that he will not leave you alone for long .
how do you know all this ?
ursula knew she was simply prolonging the contact .
not all of us are , he paused obviously searching for the right words , committed to your brothers vision for the future of saxenburg .
we are few in number but we have managed to communicate with each other .
we have had some time to prepare , there were some who anticipated this eventuality from the moment your fathers disappearance was reported .
there it was , the question ursula knew she would have to ask , the question she had desperately tried not to think of these past months .
and what of my father ?
do you know anything , have you heard im sorry , your highness but we have to assume that your father is dead .
ursulas breath caught in her throat .
the guards harsh words had cut through her heart like a knife .
the thought that her father was dead was chilling , but if her father were gone then so too would ursula shook her head she would not give voice to the thought , even in her mind .
it is unlikely your brother would have moved so boldly unless he had some assurance that king erich would not be returning , the guard continued , this means , your majesty in light of your brothers treachery that you are now the only rightful heir to the throne but for now you must leave , solomon will lead you where you need to go , he said as he began to move away .
wait , i dont even know your name .
i dont know how to repay you for what youve done for me .
my name is johann , your highness and i require no repayment .
live for us queen ursula , live for all of saxenburg .
with that he moved across the path into the brush opposite , ostensibly searching for ursula .
although ursula knew she should move , should take every advantage of this unexpected opportunity she found that could not immediately force her body to obey .
leaning against the cold rock wall ursula trembled as her mind tried to comprehend everything that had happened over the past months .
hot tears spilled down ursulas flawless cheeks as the weight of her fear and anger threatened to overwhelm her .
her own brother , a traitor to their family , to her father , to their country , it was almost inconceivable .
how had this happened , how was it possible that she and her father had missed the depths of ulrich 's ambition , had not seen the lengths to which he was prepared to go to secure the throne for himself ?
or had her father actually known all along ?
ursula had to concede it was possible .
remembering some of her fathers cryptic remarks made the morning of his departure it seemed now that her father may have been trying to warn her that her brother could not completely be trusted .
ursula closed her eyes , still feeling her wet tears on her cheeks , just as they had fallen that predawn morning nearly a full season ago , and remembered .
she had snuck out to the courtyard of the palace complex to say goodbye but the sight of so many people milling about in preparation for her fathers journey had halted her .
instead she had stood back in the shadows of the palace itself , watching the scene unfolding before her .
although she had not been told specifically where her father was going or why he was taking with him only four of his elite personal guards , ursula had managed to find out that they were headed for the kingdom of lashandra to meet with kallendara , the new matriarch of the wood elves of lashandra .
what possible reason her father had for making such a dangerous and likely fruitless , trip the young princess had no idea but from certain things solomon had let slip she believed that there was a great deal more to the journey than she had been told .
ursula had turned , about to re enter the palace , when her fathers voice had stopped her , she had not realized she could be seen .
ursula , my dear , her beloved father had said as he strode toward her , what are you doing here ?
we said all our goodbyes last night .
i know father , but i she had trailed off , unable to tell her father the true reason why she had snuck down to the courtyard before the sun had risen .
wished to see your dear papa one more time ?
her father had asked , his tone teasing .
ursula had tried to smile , knowing that was what her father wished from her , but found that she could not .
instead she had looked away and up at the sky , which was beginning to lighten , changing from deep velvet to a darkish blue , hinting at a beautiful day .
on the horizon the young princess could just see the sun beginning its slow climb across the sky , while in the west she could still make out the faint outlines of all three moons .
how was it possible that the gods could produce such an incredible display of beauty on a morning she felt certain carried only portents of dread ?
ursula my dear , her father had reached for her chin , forcing her to look at him , i know why you are here and , although you may not believe this , i understand .
i even approve , although as you know , you have already made certain commitments .
ursulas breath had caught in her throat at her fathers words , was it possible her father truly knew , she had wondered .
gazing into his deep blue eyes so like her own , ursula saw the truth there and realized that very little that happened in the palace escaped her fathers knowledge .
despite her fathers strong grip on her chin ursula lowered her head , letting the tears fall heavily that she had been trying so hard to keep hidden .
papa , i , i feel this strange sense .
i know you will likely laugh at me but in my heart i feel danger for you , for she had trailed off , unable to continue .
i too , my daughter , i too .
however , i am not merely a man who can define his life according to his own wishes .
i am a king , and so i have more to consider than my personal safety , comforts or concerns .
this journey is important my love , else i would not make it .
can you not send another in your stead ?
ursula cried out , watching him closely , knowing his answer before he even spoke .
you know i can not send another to fulfill a task i am not prepared to undertake myself .
ursula , look at me , her father said as she stubbornly hung her head before him , please .
thats better .
you must know that i would not willingly endanger my life , nor do i willingly endanger that of anyone else .
i do not wish to cause you pain .
you know this , do you not ?
yes papa , she replied sadly , not really surprised to see there were also tears in her fathers eyes .
then you understand i must make this journey ?
i understand papa , but i wish you would trust me .
that you would share some of your burden with me as you used to with ursula had stopped short of speaking her brother , einreichs name .
king erich had turned away from ursula , but not quickly enough for her to miss the look of pain etched across his face .
although her father had given her older brother his blessing and permission to leave court , ursula knew it still hurt their father that he had wanted to go , for whatever reason .
einreich , or slade as he preferred to be called , and her father had always been alike , in character and personality .
the two of them had been incredibly close .
they had been so close , in fact , that their relationship had often provoked jealously in her eldest brother ulrich .
the young princess cursed herself for bringing up painful memories at a time like this , when she now knew her father felt the same sense of danger that she did .
im sorry papa , she said , laying one hand on her fathers broad chest .
do not be sorry for speaking of him little one .
yes , your brothers decision to leave pains me still but i do understand his reasons .
erich held ursula 's gaze before continuing , i do not begrudge his desire to do something greater with his life .
but ursula , i do not want you to think , now or ever , that i do not trust you as i once trusted him .
you are , and have been since the moment of your birth , the light of my life .
you are the delight of my old age papa , youre not old , ursula interrupted .
perhaps , perhaps not but you are still the joy of my heart .
i wish only that you complete your education and that you fulfill , to the best of your abilities , the commitments you have made , at this erich had paused and looked over his shoulder at his retinue of bodyguards , and then make the life for yourself that you should have .
i trust you ursula , just as i once trusted your brother , but the time is not yet right for me to engage you in confidences which you are still too young to handle .
no , do not turn away my dear .
youth is neither a hindrance to be wished away , nor a problem to be circumnavigated but it does bear certain restrictions .
you grow every day , in wisdom , beauty and strength .
continue that and you will soon be the right hand to me that your brother einreich once was .
papa , i know you have ulrich to rely upon now , but i thank you ursula , listen to me very carefully , her father had interrupted , i have asked ulrich to watch over the family and the people of saxenburg in my absence that is true .
he is the eldest , it is his right .
but i do not wish you to think for a moment that ulrich has any place in my heart that you do not have .
at that point her father had looked away , his blue eyes clouded , obviously troubled , i have no reason to doubt your brother .
even at the time ursula had thought it a strange comment to make , however , their conversation had been cut short for at that moment it was announced that the provisions were ready and it was time to begin their journey .
her father had embraced her , holding her tightly to his broad chest before kissing her goodbye .
even though her early morning rendezvous had not turned out as she had hoped she had still been grateful for those final moments with her father .
now , of course , with her father missing and likely dead the young princess was even more grateful for that precious time .
at the time , ursula remembered , she had been preoccupied with her own thoughts and unable to shake the feeling that her father was in danger .
that was the reason , she felt now , that she had missed the subtle warning her father had given regarding her eldest brother .
for the first few ten days following her fathers departure life in the palace at anglia had gone on much the same as it had when her father was in residence .
her mother , queen urda , had been failing for many years , losing her sight , her mobility and finally , her intellect .
ursula still spent several hours a day with her mother but it was painful to watch the formerly strong , beautiful queen as she struggled to accomplish the most basic tasks .
it hurt the young princess when her mother was unable to remember who she was or where she was .
a queens death at the close of the first month of her fathers absence ursula had gone early to her mothers chambers .
she had been driven there by the same sense of impending danger that she had felt the morning of her fathers departure .
arriving outside her mothers door ursula had been stunned to see her mothers handmaid , gilta a gruff dwarf originally from the mountains bordering laxdale and kemet , who was utterly devoted to the aging queen , standing outside in the corridor instead of her usual post at the queens side .
gilta , why are you not with the queen ?
ursula had demanded .
oh your highness , gilta began , tears streaming down her lined , weather beaten face , i wish i was but your brother , the prince , he sent me out .
your lady mother , the queen urda , shes not well .
i dont know whats happened but its as though her insides are wrenching themselves outside .
i asked the prince to call for a priest but he sent me out and is attending her himself .
gilta broke down completely , unable to continue .
stay here , gilta , i will check on the queen myself , ursula said , patting the now sobbing dwarf on the shoulder .
the princess went to open the door to the queens chambers only to find the door had been barred from the inside .
for a moment ursula was so shocked she simply stood staring at the closed door never in her life had she known of a locked or barred door within the palace complex .
ulrich , ursula had cried out , coming to herself and banging on the door , why is this door barred ?
let me in , i want to see mother .
for a few moments ursula heard nothing but silence , just as she was about to knock again the door opened a crack .
ursula , forgive me , i merely barred the door to ensure mothers privacy , please come in , ulrich said , standing back and opening the door fractionally wider to allow ursula to slip inside .
unlike ursula and slade , who both resembled their father with their extreme fair hair and dark blue eyes , ulrich had always more closely resembled their mother , who was daintily built with dark coloring .
ulrich shared their mothers shiny blue black hair , dark eyes and her diminutive stature .
ulrich was shorter than even ursula by half a head , and a full head shorter than either their father or slade .
ulrich also shared their mothers much more slender build , although the daintiness that was so attractive on queen urda was less attractive and seemed almost effeminate in her eldest son .
ulrich , why was this door barred ?
why was gilta sent away ?
forgive me , sister , but i deemed it best under the circumstances to give mother some privacy .
i was about to send someone to call for you when you arrived .
come quickly , i fear mother is not long for this world , ulrich turned away walking back to their mothers bedside .
the sight of her mother was a terrible shock to ursula .
although queen urda had been unwell for some time she had , for the most part , retained the grave air of dignity that had been the hallmark of her life .
now , however , the queen seemed a mere shell of the woman she had been only the day before .
sweat stood out clearly on her brow , a strong stench filled the room and a quick glance around showed the young princess that her mothers inside had been , as gilta had put it , trying to wrench themselves outside .
whatever illness had struck her mother down so quickly appeared to be centered in her bowels and her stomach with both of those organs trying to purge themselves .
ursula walked closer to the bed , taking up her mothers hand , which was cool and clammy .
as ursula bent to kiss her mothers cheek she was struck by the waxy appearance of her mothers skin and the strange smell on her breath .
in the back of her mind those two things were somehow significant but in that moment ursula could not remember what that might have been .
as ursula looked down at her mothers sightless eyes staring endlessly at a ceiling she could no longer see , her own tears had begun to flow .
sitting on the queens bed , holding her hand ursula tried to talk to her mother but received no response .
how long the young princess sat on the edge of the bed , whispering words of encouragement to her mother and her queen her did not know .
all the while she sat there she had prayed to any gods who might be listening to spare her mother .
she also wished that her father was by her side instead of her eldest brother , whom she had never truly felt close to , not in the same way she and slade had been close .
the minutes had stretched into hours and ursula did not move .
finally , after the sun had reached its zenith in the sky ursula heard her mother take a last choking breath before lying still .
at that moment ursula had laid her head on her mothers stomach , powerless to stop the flow of tears streaming down her face .
with the death of queen urda a change had settled over the palace of which ursula had been initially unaware .
wrapped in her grief over losing her mother , desperately missing her father and without even her dearest brother to talk to she had not noticed at first the new deference being shown to ulrich .
although ulrich had been left as regent during their fathers absence he had not been taken very seriously by the palace staff , the guards or even the populace .
queen urdas death seemed to have changed all that .
suddenly people began treating ulrich as high king .
at the funeral for their mother ulrich had dressed in light weight plate mail , obviously copied from their fathers rather than being the actual suit of mail that their father typically wore , as well as the full royal regalia .
on ulrich 's orders the funeral had been rushed , allowing no time for any envoys from the other kingdoms to attend , something ursula had found unusual .
even more unusual had been ulrich 's decision to give their mother a warriors traditional funeral pyre before sending her remains out to sea .
when ursula had questioned him about it ulrich had replied he was simply honoring their mother , stating queen urda had been as much a warrior as any one of them in her own way .
at the time , although ursula had found it strange she had not been suspicious .
while she had never been very close to ulrich he was still her brother and she had no reason then to doubt him .
it was after the funeral that she began to notice the change in ulrich .
he now wore full regalia almost all of the time and went everywhere with a handpicked crew of royal bodyguards , something her father had never done .
he also began to have strange visitors , not received openly in the palace reception hall , but who met with him privately in his own chambers .
more disturbing ursula noticed that at none of these meetings were there any knights of belenus present nor were there any of the monks from the black lotus monastery .
whenever their father had conducted affairs relating to the governance of saxenburg erich had always included both the knights of belenus and the monks , preferring as many different viewpoints as possible to ensure the best decision was reached .
looking back on it now she realized that if she had thought anything at the time it was simply that ulrich was not really fit to rule and handled authority badly .
each day that went past ursula counted as a day closer to her beloved fathers return , a day closer to the time when ulrich would resume his role as a crown prince and life would go back to normal .
in the meantime ursula continued her studies in preparation for her final examination at the black lotus monastery just as her father had asked .
there had been a time when ursula had wanted nothing more than to join the ranks of the warrior monks and serve her kingdom .
two years ago when ursula had begun to study under solomon the strict ideals of the monks had seemed perfectly suited to the life she imagined herself leading .
all the monks swore vows of poverty , chastity and humility , devoting their lives to study , to preserving the history of the kingdoms and to aiding the royal family of saxenburg in times of need .
as the day drew closer to the irrevocable moment of swearing those vows ursula had found that some of those restrictions no longer seemed as appealing as they once had .
she still enjoyed the physical aspects of combat training , still believed in the ideals of protecting her people and her family .
she also still enjoyed the study of the history and lore but she now knew that in her heart the isolated life of a monk was no longer truly her desire .
still , with the continued absence of her beloved father , and now her mothers untimely death , ursula found that her studies provided some small measure of comfort .
becoming a monk , whichever monastery you would like to serve , was not an easy task .
the potential monks of any monastery were rigorously trained in many various disciplines .
the black lotus monastery trained potential candidates ruthlessly in all forms combat , although their main emphasis was on unarmed combat and strict physical conditioning .
despite the seriousness and strictness of their combat training they were actively discouraged from using the skills they honed daily .
a warrior monk , she was always told , fought only when absolutely necessary and all other avenues had been exhausted .
in addition prospective monks were expected to study extensively .
not only the histories of the kingdoms but they were also required to become proficient in languages , alchemy , herb craft , and the cultures , traditions and laws of kingdoms other than their native home .
the sheer volume of information required to pass the basic entrance examinations into most monasteries eliminated all but the very best and the black lotus was no exception .
the few each year that were finally accepted into the ranks of the warrior monks were always exceptional .
ursula did not consider herself to be exceptional , and she had no way of knowing if her efforts would even be acceptable to the monastery .
although , as she threw herself more deeply into her studies , she found that not only did the exercise pass the time , she was also learning at an incredible rate .
far more than she would have believed possible .
ursula found her studies interesting and challenging enough to provide her at least a partial distraction while she awaited the return of her father and his retinue .
something she reminded herself daily must surely be drawing nearer .
in fact , ursula was surprised to find that if it had not been for ulrich 's increasingly pompous , officious manner , she would have actually been happy .
her mothers death , while sudden and tragic , had not left the emptiness that she had expected .
likely it was because the beautiful queen had been steadily ailing for almost a full year so her death had seemed to be almost a blessing .
that was how she had felt until that fateful morning a ten day ago .
at that stage in her study of herb craft ursula had progressed from learning about the simple , readily available remedies such as oak bark , powdered crystals and common snake venom to studying the far more exotic , powerful and very hard to acquire ingredients such as milkstone , dragons blood and treant sap .
these ingredients were extremely potent , and could often be used in two different ways , either as a poison or , in the right quantities , as a healing agent .
while reading through the various uses and effects of dragons blood , in particular that of a black dragon , ursula finally discovered the reason for her mothers waxy skin and the odd , unpleasant smell to her breath before her death .
those symptoms , in fact the entire course of her mothers illness from the first onset of her blindness , the lack of feeling that had developed in the queens legs and her madness and eventual death , all these pointed to a slow and steady administration of black dragons blood given in ever increasing amounts .
ursula had flung the book away from her in utter shock .
the young princess was certain then that her mother , queen urda , had been murdered .
there was no possible way that dragons blood could ever be administered accidentally .
ursula had stood so quickly that the wooden chair with its padded and embroidered seat cushion had fallen heavily to the floor .
she had to find ulrich her brother had to know immediately that somewhere within the palace was a traitor , a murderer who had escaped detection , until now .
racing down the long corridors she looked everywhere she could think of for her brother .
ursula had finally found him , with their fathers senior advisors in attendance , in the throne room .
ulrich was wearing the royal regalia as had become his custom , which she found offensive enough , but now he was seated on their fathers throne , which shocked her completely .
saxenburg law was abundantly clear and definite on that point , only the reigning monarch was permitted to sit in the high throne .
to the right and positioned slightly lower was the secondary throne , used by saxenburgs queens or regents .
that was where ulrich should have been seated , not on the high throne of their father .
seeing her brother using their fathers traditional privileges had disturbed ursula so much that for the moment all thoughts of her mother , and her demon sent death were pushed completely aside .
that her fathers advisors , who owed allegiance to none but the high king , should be kneeling before her brother only made ulrich 's crime that much worse .
ulrich , what are you doing ?
ursula cried out in shock , the law forbids ursula !
you should not be here sister .
you know well that the throne room is off limits to all except at express invitation !
ulrich interrupted her harshly .
i have as much right to be in this room as you do , brother , while our father , the high king is absent .
i came looking for you .
and so you have found me , however , i am very busy right now and you will have to wait for a more suitable time for an appointment .
i need make no appointment with you ulrich , and the law forbids you the seat on the high throne , as you well know .
ursula , do not push me too far , i will deal with you later , ulrich said angrily , clenching his teeth as he always did when embarrassed , i am in the middle of important affairs concerning the future of saxenburg and can not be bothered with your petty concerns .
i will leave brother , but before i do i must tell you the reason i was searching for you , she began , slightly ashamed to note that her voice quavered with unshed tears .
ursula , i have been exceedingly patient but now is not the time , ulrich answered .
now is the time !
ulrich , our mother was murdered !
ive found the proof , i know the agent that was used to kill her .
ursula opened her eyes , coming back to the here and now , rubbing away her tears with the heel of her hand .
ulrichs look of abject panic upon hearing her conviction that their mother had been murdered had not immediately caused her to be suspicious but his actions over the intervening days had finally convinced her of his guilt .
he immediately ordered an interrogation of all the palace staff , by whatever means necessary , including torture .
eight days later he had finally secured a confession from their mothers handmaiden , gilta .
ursula had demanded to be allowed to speak with the aging dwarf , knowing of the womans absolute devotion to queen urda , but her brother had denied her the privilege .
she had then tried to talk to her brother , tried to convince him he must have made a mistake .
she had insisted that regardless of what gilta may have said it simply was not possible for her to be the guilty party .
she had pointed out that the dwarf woman would have had no opportunity to even obtain the dragons blood in the first place , but it had all been to no avail .
two days ago gilta had been executed , beheaded according to the traditions for the murder of a queen , in the palace courtyard .
ursula had been sickened by the punishment , by ulrich 's refusal to accept he had erred , by her brother assuming the role of a high king rather than merely a regent but mostly she had been repulsed by the fact that giltas punishment had been both public and humiliating .
something that would never have occurred if her father had been present .
only yesterday ursula had demanded to see ulrich and she had questioned his right to perform such a barbarous act without their fathers approval .
ulrich had granted ursula her audience , where he had coldly informed her that king erich would not be returning , that he , ulrich , was her monarch and overlord and would be crowned king of saxenburg in an official ceremony in twenty seven days time .
as shocked as she had been by his pronouncement she had been even more shocked by the chosen timing .
twenty seven days , or twenty six days now , meant that ulrich intended to be crowned on the day of victorious ascent .
a day dedicated to vadatajs , marking his rise to power that began with the sun ascension festival .
a vile and evil day of perverse worship that was contrary to everything that saxenburg believed in , and her brother intended to stage his undeserved coronation on that day .
it was at that moment that ursula finally saw the truth she had been desperately trying to ignore .
it was ulrich who had murdered their mother , and all to gain the throne .
rubbing one hand across her flat belly ursula pushed herself away from the wall .
trying to stem the flow of tears , she refused to accept that her father was dead .
if that were true then it meant the end of all of ursulas dreams , not only the dreams for her people or her kingdom , but her dreams for herself , as a woman .
for if her father was dead , then surely so too would wulfstan be dead , and that she could not bring herself to accept .
oh wulfstan , she whispered , closing her eyes and picturing his beloved face .
he was her fathers favorite bodyguard , her childhood playmate , her one true love .
that their love was forbidden , both by saxenburg law , because wulfstan was not royalty , and by her own initiate status as a monk , made it no less real .
somehow , she vowed , she would find her father and wulfstan , and together they would have vengeance on ulrich and his schemes .
leaving ixlan tares listened as nikolai outlined his plan to gather certain supplies , which would be put to use as a disguise .
then they would be able to leave , not only the city of diablis but the island of ixlan , which lent its name to the entire ixlan archipelago .
on the surface the necromancers plan appeared to be unnecessarily convoluted and difficult and contained some , to tares at least , extremely distasteful elements it was nevertheless an excellent plan .
it also demonstrated a great deal of forethought .
as much as he might have liked to have protested the plan he could think of no good reason not to proceed exactly as nikolai outlined .
the minotaur priest could see that the plan offered them all their greatest chance of success .
i will go along with your plan nikolai , tares began slowly , although im sure youre aware that it will be difficult for me , however , i see the sense in your arguments .
i do have one condition .
conditions tares ?
i thought you had agreed to trust me , nikolai said with a mocking smile .
i have and i will but we must do this one thing .
and what might that be ?
whats so important that youre willing to risk everything , including his safety ?
nikolai questioned scathingly .
that you tell slade the truth , tares paused briefly , watching while the necromancer absorbed the implications of tares demand before continuing , about everything .
absolutely not , no way .
nikolai said angrily , i told you before i have no idea whether or not he can be trusted and i will not , he hissed through clenched teeth , jeopardize our friends life on the off chance that he is who and what he says he is .
i wont do it .
then we are at an impasse for i will not go ahead with anything unless you do .
have you forgotten the ring , priest ?
that means im your boss .
now i dont know how they work things down at the tears of belenus but in the real world when someones in charge it means they make the decisions .
i understand that , nikolai , tares stumbled slightly on the necromancers name but he forced himself to use it , but i am guided by belenus , as you are guided by bhaal .
i know this is the right thing to do , i know we must do this .
i could kill you right now , tell everyone it was an accident and do it my way , nikolai said calmly , with not even a hint of anger .
tares knew well that nikolai had spoken nothing but the truth .
by insisting on telling slade the truth he was risking his life and yet , deep within himself , where all messages from belenus came , the minotaur knew beyond doubt it was the right thing to do .
he also knew instinctively that it would be better not to answer so tares simply waited silently for the mage to decide .
if nikolai was determined that he would not accept the guidance of belenus 's servant while he was working on belenus 's errand then the big minotaur would certainly die .
the moment stretched out interminably as tares waited and then nikolai did the last thing the minotaur had ever expected him to do he laughed .
i have to admit it tares , he said , you followers of belenus have got more guts than i would have credited you with .
all right , ill tell slade everything but only slade and only because you seem so certain its the right thing to do .
if i wasnt sure of your loyalty to our friend i wouldnt do it anyway .
thank you , tares answered with a long shuddery sigh , slowly releasing the breath he had not been aware he was holding .
together the two of them walked back towards the opening .
wulfstan , still mercifully unconscious , had been placed as close to the exit as possible to allow the cooling breeze to play over his badly burned body .
lara and darzan had found some long grass and leaves and had fashioned them into a thin barrier between the soldier and the stony ground .
neither slade nor roulibard had returned from their errand yet and trunk sat down near wulfstans head and laid one huge hand on the wounded soldiers forehead .
while tares prayed for healing over wulfstans prone form nikolai gave his instructions to lara and darzan .
when lara glanced questioningly at tares , the big minotaur nodded gravely but did not cease praying .
from the corner of his eye tares saw slade and roulibard return , slipping quietly in through the small opening .
id say that whoever built this tunnel was pretty clever , roulibard began before trailing off when he looked at wulfstans slowly healing body .
what did you find ?
nikolai asked slade after a moment when it had become obvious that roulibard would not continue .
it is very clever actually , slade said , were outside the city walls but still fairly close .
somewhere in the region of the main harbor , id say .
the entrance here comes out forty or fifty yards from an abandoned fishing hut , one of the long ones where they used to process the catches .
you can still smell the stink but it basically seems to act as a cover for the entrance so if you just walk around the hut itd be easy enough to blend in with everybody else .
nikolai gazed unseeingly at the stone wall and bit his lower lip , obviously thinking .
but were outside the city walls you said ?
nikolai questioned , trying to visualize their position .
exactly , here , slade squatted down and picking up a small piece of stone he began to sketch a rough diagram of their position in the dirt , were here , to the north is the road running up into the highland area .
to the south is the main road to the smaller villages , the city walls end about here , slade used the stone to point to each location before drawing in the rough location of the walls , and between there and the main harbor is whats left of the old fishing village .
basically it looks like the dark one just left it all in place , letting it fall into ruin by the way , and walled up the parts of the city he liked .
its not as populated as the city , of course , and its pretty rough but id say this area is where most of the poor and the pirates make their homes .
theres a small open air market place but i doubt they had much in the way of supplies , for that you would have to get inside the city walls .
can we get out to the east ?
nikolai asked after studying slades crudely drawn map intently .
the east ?
not without going back into the city itself , the only way east is through the east gate on the other side of the city , and the harbors right here .
why would you want to go east ?
slade asked , looking up at the necromancer , a puzzled expression on his face .
thats something i will need to explain , nikolai answered , gesturing slade to follow him back down the tunnel to the same spot where he and tares had spoken earlier .
roulibard leaned against the hard packed earthen wall and slid down till he was sitting beside wulfstans still unconscious body .
trunk , sitting the other side of wulfstan , was still a mess , his normally tough , leathery skin still oozing liquid everywhere the flames had touched .
the giant creature had one hand lying gently on wulfstans forehead , almost as if he were imitating the minotaur priest in his prayers .
roulibard was amazed at how much healing tares had achieved just in the short time that he and slade had been away .
although still unconscious the soldier seemed to be nearly whole again , the new skin pale pink and slightly puckered yet undeniably healed .
looking into wulfstans face roulibard decided , with some surprise , that he was pleased the big man would make a full recovery .
he hated the soldier and his sneering , mocking , arrogant manner but roulibard would not have wanted to be the cause of his death .
as he reflected on his relief he wondered , not for the first time , exactly what manner of man he truly was in the short time he had of clear memories he had discovered that he was capable of incredible rage .
he was pleased to discover that his rage did not extend so far as to make him a killer .
that was not how the young mage had pictured himself .
the big minotaur finally sat back sweat dripping off his bovine head , his large nostrils flaring with exhaustion .
roulibard watched as tares prayers continued to breathe life into wulfstan even though the priest had physically stopped praying .
hell be all right ?
roulibard asked quietly , not taking his eyes off the soldier .
yes , hell probably sleep for a while , although , tares paused , a strange note in his voice catching roulibards attention , possibly not .
it can be very difficult to tell sometimes .
im glad , roulibard said with relief .
as am i. i believe that we have a long journey ahead of us , it behooves us to have as many allies as possible , even if that means working with those we would not ordinarily .
roulibard looked up , tares was gazing down the tunnel in the direction nikolai and slade had walked a troubled expression on his stern face .
you dont like nikolai do you ?
roulibard asked .
no i do not and yet , tares paused again frowning , i will put those feelings aside and find a way for the two of us to work together .
this is important isnt it ?
i mean more important than the dark one trying to take over saxenburg ?
what makes you say that ?
tares turned to look at roulibard , fixing the wizard with his gaze .
i dont know exactly , but i mean it has to be if nikolais involved doesnt it ?
i didnt know that you knew nikolai that well , tares answered slowly .
i dont , i mean , roulibard struggled to answer , a frown now marring his usually open , smiling face , i dont think ive ever even met him before today .
i just knowsomehow .
what do you mean you dont know ?
didnt slade tell you ?
that i can not remember a single thing about me or my life except for the past two days ?
although the young mage had spoken in a light , airy tone tares heard the very real pain underlying roulibards statement .
the priest could not imagine anything more horrific than to lose your memory .
after all , what was a man if not the sum of his memories and existence ?
without that how would you ever find a place in the world ?
a shudder tore through tares body as he wondered what manner of tortures had been used on roulibard that they would leave no outward mark and yet strip his mind to an empty shell .
little wonder the wizard seemed such a negative personality , leaving so little impression that at times the big minotaur had found that he had even forgotten roulibard existed at all .
and you remember nothing ?
tares asked , fascinated and horrified at the same time .
about me ?
practically nothing , but ive got pretty good , i suppose youd call it general knowledge .
i remember things about the kingdoms , things about history , i know i practiced magic but i dont really remember doing so but its like , roulibard looked away as he tried to find the right words , i dont know , like i can smell magic , taste it .
i remember , or i think i do , how it feels but how to actually do it , the words of even the simplest spell , the most basic spell components ?
all gone .
i assume that i must have a family somewhere i mean everyone comes from somewhere but as to who they might be i remember nothing .
im human and i can speak the common tongue , im pretty pale skinned so its unlikely i come from kemet or brikenwald , yet i dont get any sense of coming from ixlan , saxenburg or even padyian .
i think i mustve been a good alchemist because i can remember and recognize herbs , plants , and stones but i cant remember a thing about how to put them together .
i dont remember one single thing about me before i woke up , roulibard stopped abruptly , got up and walked away , slipping out of the small entrance .
tares could not be certain but he thought he heard the young mage softly crying but he decided to leave roulibard in peace .
instead , with a deep sigh the minotaur priest stretched out next to wulfstan and closed his eyes , within seconds he was asleep .
tares woke , after what felt like minutes but in reality had to have been at least an hour and possibly more , to the sounds of a heated argument between wulfstan and roulibard .
as he rose to his feet , slightly unsteadily as he still felt the draining effects of his healing prayers , he was stunned to see how completely wulfstan had been cured .
the minotaur priest cast a curious glance at trunk and then walked closer to the arguing pair until he was standing right behind wulfstan , towering over the tall soldier .
i couldve died you fool , wulfstan was shouting into roulibards face .
im telling you i dont know roulibard tried to speak only to be cut off by wulfstan , who by now was pushing the smaller man in the chest .
i dont know , i dont know , thats all youve had to say for yourself .
wretched spellcasters never think for two straight seconds about the effects of what theyre doing .
wulfstan stopped when he realized that he was surrounded by wretched spellcasters .
wulfstan , that is more than enough , slade cut in commandingly , roulibard didnt mean for you to get caught in the crossfire .
he was doing his best to help , now forget it .
thanks to tares youre not dead , nor in any immediate danger of dying .
unless , of course he doesnt shut up , in which case i may kill him myself , nikolai drawled quietly .
tares was not sure whether or not wulfstan heard nikolais comment but if he did the soldier obviously decided to ignore it .
turning away , disgust written all over his handsome face , wulfstan thanked tares gruffly before bending to pile equipment into a large , leather backpack .
the festival lara and darzan had evidently gone into the city and had acquired all the equipment that the necromancer had told them to obtain .
lara was still dressed in her own clothes .
the necromancer was wearing a long , hooded black rode with the red tinged eyes that were vadatajs symbol emblazoned on the back and the others were all dressed in grey , shapeless robes .
nikolais plan called for himself and tares , disguised in the black hooded robes worn by the priests of vadatajs , to lead the rest of the group in a long parade through the city .
this was a highlight of the sun ascension festival leading the chosen to the altars , which were situated on the two small hills on the eastern side of the city .
once there the chosen ones would be subjected to some of the more sickening rites of vadatajs worship before eventually being sacrificed on the rough stone altars .
tares did not like the idea of even pretending to participate in such a vile distortion of worship .
he had been forced to agree with nikolai that the plan gave them all a degree of anonymity it was unlikely they would achieve any other way .
the ritual priests were reviled even by the worshippers of vadatajs , making it unlikely that anyone would even look at them and those chosen for the rituals were typically viewed as objects of pity and revulsion , meaning that no one would look too closely at them either .
the only difficulty in the plan was , of course , lara .
while the height of trunk and tares would likely go unremarked in the city , where there were many ogres and half ogres residing within the walls , laras lack of height made her an obvious halfling or a child and children were never used in these particular rituals .
nikolai had solved the difficulty by suggesting that trunk carry the halfling woman , close to his chest with her legs dangling .
it would not be a very comfortable journey for lara , as the procession was designed to be a dancing kind of march , but it was the only possible solution .
lara , when told of the plan , had simply giggled and jokingly told trunk not to drop her or shed bite his feet .
the rest of the necromancers plan was simpler once the procession arrived at the location of the stone altars they would simply continue walking down the hill towards the harbor on the eastern side of the island .
all of the altars were isolated from each other in order to allow plenty of privacy to implement the ritual .
apart from diablis city itself the majority of ixlan consisted of mostly small fishing villages .
many of which had now become pirate havens so it was unlikely they would encounter any guards or resistance during the procession .
once they arrived at melion , the harbor village on the far eastern side of ixlan , nikolai had arranged for someone to meet them there so they could board a ship and set sail for saxenburg .
although there had been some surprise at the elaborate nature of nikolais idea the only one who truly seemed put out by the plan had been darzan .
the beautiful pirate had been hired by tares and lara to help facilitate the prison break and then to captain the ship that would get them away .
the minotaurs instinct would have been to simply allow darzan to return to her ship , the pirate having already been paid nikolai had overruled tares , insisting that they all stay together .
once slade had supported the necromancer darzan had no longer protested , except to state that her own ship and crew were closer and easier to get to than whatever arrangements nikolai may have made .
the dark skinned pirate had raised the obvious question of how nikolai had managed to make these elaborate plans if he had been confined in diablis prison for the past three months .
the necromancer had caustically replied that ixlan was a place he was intimately familiar with and refused to answer any further questions .
slade had cut through their argument by pointing out they were wasting valuable time .
after that darzan had donned the grey robe without further comment .
traditionally the processional marches began once the sun had reached its zenith .
each line of marches originated from different points within the city and was timed to reach the various altars after the sun had fully set but before the sapphire moon had begun its journey across the sky .
nikolai would be the first in line with a long black rope tying him to the first chosen one , who would be linked to the next and so on until finally reaching tares who would be taking the rear position .
with their hooded robes they were virtually invisible while being in plain sight .
tares had wondered at first how they would disguise the very obvious shape of his horns under the hood but the necromancer had already thought of that , and had instructed lara to acquire several blankets , which he then wrapped around tares horns , disguising them completely once the hood was raised .
diablis city was laid out as a roughly rectangular shape , the longest part running east west .
this was the route they would have to travel to get from where they were on the western side of the city to the altar nikolai had chosen outside the eastern gates .
it would normally take at least two hours to walk from one side of the city to the other .
as the processional marches were intended to be travelled slowly it would likely take nearly twice as long .
picking up the small , round ceremonial drum tares said a silent prayer to belenus for their protection .
nikolai , with his own drum at the ready , walked quickly down the line , doing a final check to ensure that everyone was prepared and fully covered .
satisfied at last that they were as ready as they could ever be the necromancer led them all out , beginning immediately to measure out the slow and steady beat on the drum while they marched .
their procession through the outer part of diablis towards the walls of the city proper helped tares to slow his rapidly beating heart .
although everywhere he looked he saw poverty and desperation there were initially , no signs or symbols relating to the worship of vadatajs .
as the group moved through the city gates tares saw that two enormous evergreen trees , representing the everlasting nature of vadatajs , had been erected either side of the huge stone gates .
there would be , he knew , a matching pair at each of the three other gates into the city .
underneath the trees the crowds gathered , already in an advanced state of drunkenness though there were still at least four hours till the setting of the sun .
although tares tried to keep his eyes cast down he could not help himself from sneaking glances at the roiling festival .
the sun ascension festival always began with the suns first rays .
a whole day dedicated to drunken revelry and orgies designed to encourage the sun , now at its weakest point of the year , to rise strongly once again .
in truth the worship of vadatajs was more common in the far south , even among tares own people , to his very great shame , where winter truly did seem to weaken the sun , with each day becoming noticeably shorter .
here in the north there simply was not that much difference between the seasons .
that fact had not stopped the dark one from introducing the perverted religion to the people of ixlan .
the sun ascension festival was the single most important rite in the worship of vadatajs , bringing together the three elements of fertility , blood and chaotic behavior , which were all beloved by the daemonic god of debauchery .
everywhere tares looked he could see that the city had been decorated for the festival .
garlands of blood red flowers had been hung from doorways , phallic symbols and crude images were strategically placed in every available location and the wine , ale and mead flowed in an unending river .
already many of the drunken citizens were indulging in lustful activities , doing openly on the streets things that should have remained private .
the minotaur barely suppressed a shudder the activities going on behind closed doors would be that much worse .
knowing that for many of the citizens of ixlan this vile worship was imposed upon them against their will did little to ease tares troubled heart .
as they drew closer to the eastern gate nikolai began to steadily increase the tempo on the drum beats , walking faster in time to the music .
from what tares could see there were at least three other processional marches all converging on the eastern gates at the same time each one with cold and deadly precision .
all around him the people lined the streets cheering drunkenly , becoming whipped into a frenzy of blood lust at the prospect of seeing the chosen ones torn apart in honor of vadatajs .
the display and their behavior was sickening , yet tares reminded himself that if they knew no better he did not have the right to condemn their form of worship , but he longed to be able to enlighten the people about the joy of following belenus rather than the evil vadatajs .
it was a crucial part of nikolais plan that their procession be the first out of the gate that way as they marched toward the altar they could steadily increase their pace until they were out of sight of the following processions .
unfortunately as they drew closer to the gate tares could see that there were at least two other processions in front of their position , and likely the third as well .
the necromancer was obviously aware of the situation as he began to beat his ceremonial drum a little faster , urging them all forward .
even as he increased his speed tares saw that it would not be enough .
the first of the other processional marches was already too close to their position it would look out of place and draw too much unwanted attention if their march were to break formation any more than they had already done .
they would simply all have to trust that nikolai had some alternate plan in place for this eventuality .
as it turned out their processional march ended up being the second last to leave the eastern city gate .
just being out of the accursed city came as a relief to the big minotaur , who felt as though he were able to breathe cleanly once again .
how nikolai intended to deal with the situation once they reached the stone altar , roughly three miles north east of the city , tares had no idea but he was felt sure the necromancer would come up with something .
the western side of the city near the harbor they had come from was made up from the impoverished , decrepit remains of the original fishing villages .
the eastern side where they now were , however , was vastly different .
obviously once used for farming purposes it had long ago been abandoned leaving the fallow land to revert to a natural state .
wildflowers grew in abundance alongside myriad herbs and other shrubs , the landscape sloping steadily upwards to the hills .
tares sighed deeply this would be a beautiful country if only it were not so oppressed by the dark one and his perverse preference for vadatajs .
the dark ones justice looking up the hill towards the stone altar tares stopped in sheer shock .
standing there as if tares had somehow conjured him with his name , was the dark one himself .
as usual he was heavily robed , the black linen cowl covering his entire body and leaving his face shrouded in deep shadows .
standing to his left was an equally robed , although not hooded , dark skinned wizard tares recognized as malachi , the dark ones chief lieutenant .
on his right was a tall elven woman , wearing the same elaborate heavily embroidered white robes that the creatures they had encountered within the prison had been wearing .
her long shiny blue black hair was held back from her face with a thin gold band bearing a large opalescent crystal in the centre and similar crystals adorned her delicately pointed ears .
her features , like the majority of the elven race , were beautiful .
she had large , almond shaped eyes , dusky skin , wide , sensuous mouth , yet in this woman those very features were cold and repellent rather than attractive .
her eyes were narrowed almost to slits in arrogant disdain , the clear skin stretched too tight over her prominent cheekbones and the sensuous mouth was pulled into a thin , cruel smile .
at their feet , kneeling with his hands tied behind his back and his feet tied together was a human male .
come closer my people , the dark one began , spreading his arms wide as though welcoming them into his presence , come closer you who are to be privileged above all others .
you , priests of vadatajs , chosen from birth for the honors you receive this night have come here , as you have done every year to honor the sun , the great symbol of our beloved deity .
you bring with you those special few so carefully chosen to spill their precious life blood in honor of the great vadatajs .
tares noticed that the tall elven woman was openly sneering at this speech of the dark ones , clearly displaying her disdain for the worship of vadatajs .
the big minotaur wondered with a growing fear how the dark one would react should he notice what he would undoubtedly consider blasphemous impiety .
yes , you have come again , as you always do and let me assure you first that you will continue to do so .
this celebration is too important it holds too much meaning for our beloved citizens to abandon it .
so fear not .
although many , many things will change in ixlan , this day and most especially this night , will not be one of them .
tares could hear a low , questioning murmuring spreading through the priests that surrounded him .
obviously the dark ones presence and his cryptic remarks were not a typical part of this ceremony .
glancing around the minotaur could see the other members of the various processions beginning to mill around , moving closer together as if for protection .
in the deepening shadows and growing confusion the big minotaur moved forward until he was standing next to nikolai .
i dont understand , this doesnt appear to be a usual part of the ceremony .
do you know why the dark one is here ?
he whispered to the necromancer .
no , i dont know but i dont like it .
something is wrong .
nikolai whispered back , falling silent when the dark one began to speak again .
you have no doubt heard many rumors , hints of great things to come and i have come here this night to assure you that the rumors are true .
no longer will you , or i , or any of us remain in subjection to any of the gods , not even vadatajs .
at this statement the gathering crowd gasped openly in amazement .
tares was utterly dumbfounded for the dark one , for any one to make such a claim was completely incomprehensible .
fear not , my people although this is new to you soon you will come to see the beauteous liberation that awaits you .
no longer dependant upon the gods , any of them , for our lives , for the bounties of the land of kaynos , to be able to rely only upon ourselves and the power that lies within .
the gods have been as a huge rock around our neck for far too long , with their demands for tribute and sacrifice .
well , no longer , the dark ones voice rose , yelling defiantly into the growing darkness , from this day forward we pay homage to ourselves !
we render tribute unto us !
as he finished speaking the dark one raised his hands high above his head , pointing towards the darkening sky .
as if in response to the dark ones thoughts came a sudden rumble of thunder , loud and menacing , followed by bolts of flame that struck the great stone altar with a fierce heat so intense that the heavy rock actually began to melt .
over the noise of the crackling flames and the still echoing thunder tares could hear those around him beginning to whimper in fear , some openly crying .
the minotaur priest found it difficult to believe that the dark one was responsible for the powerful elemental display , yet that must mean the magic had been performed by either malachi , or the elven woman .
behold , the dark one spoke into the mayhem , the power granted me by shallendara , our new high priestess , the mediator of a power unlike anything seen before in all the kingdoms .
power not dependant upon gaining or retaining the favor of the gods , power not restricted to mages , power for all .
but , he held up one pale slender hand , requesting and receiving silence , there must still be sacrifice .
there must always be sacrifice , for how else would we learn ?
i bring before you tonight a traitor .
one of my own who had witnessed the incredible power of witchcraft and yet he still chose to defy me , to defy the will of shallendara , to defy the new order .
i bring before you luca .
luca , who knowing all that you now know , chose betrayal instead of obedience and worse yet , he chose to try and lie about it .
now tell me , my people , what do you think should be the punishment for the traitor ?
how should i respond to such open defiance ?
kill him !
the shout went up all around tares , quickly becoming a chant among the throng .
the minotaur felt sickened knowing that soon he would be a witness to a human sacrifice , beyond his power to prevent .
i can not watch this , tares whispered to nikolai .
you dont have a choice .
count the numbers , there are too many people here , if we make a move now well be dead in minutes .
but to simply stand here , tares trailed off .
pray , pray to belenus , pray to any god you can think of , but pray , nikolai said harshly , his voice rough with barely suppressed emotion .
if tares was surprised by nikolais injunction to pray he did not have time to dwell on it , the crowd , eager for blood , was becoming increasingly restless .
bowing his head the minotaur prayed earnestly to belenus , trying desperately not to hear the joyous cries of the crowd as luca was tortured right in front of them .
what manner of people , he wondered , could take such delight in the suffering of another ?
yet it was obvious that the crowd was delighted by the torture being inflicted on the unfortunate luca .
apparently these people did not care to whom they gave their devotions as long as their lusts for blood , violence and perversions were met .
as the cries of the crowd grew ever louder and more excited tares kept his bovine head bowed , feeling his own hot tears falling inside the folds of his robe .
eventually the unholy sacrifice was over , although tares believed he would be haunted by lucas primal screams for the rest of his days .
finally daring to raise his head the big minotaur saw the dark ones coarse robes were shiny with blood , appearing only as slightly darker patches on the black material .
still standing in their original positions to either side of him were malachi and the elven witch , shallendara .
while malachis face was impassive , shallendara was smiling , obviously pleased at the display she had just witnessed .
tares fought against a rising nausea as he wondered what horrors still lay ahead .
my people , come closer , the dark one began again , his voice deep and soothing as though the public torture and sacrifice of a man was a normal occurrence .
tares wondered with deep foreboding if soon that would not be the case , if witchcraft denied the gods and worshipped only itself they might well see such sacrifices all over the kingdoms .
i have shown the way , i have given to you before all others the privilege of witnessing the dawn of a new day , a new era .
from this moment forth this night , this festival shall be known forever as the ascension of shallendara , for it is she who has led us out of the darkness of enslavement towards the light of power .
i leave you now , my people , to do that which you came to do , yet you will do so now with a new purpose , a greater understanding .
all of you who follow me in this new dawn will receive power and riches beyond your wildest dreams , here the dark one paused significantly , looking out into the crowd , while for those who choose , foolishly , to betray my wishes ... well , you have seen how i feel about those who betray me , and how i deal with betrayal .
in an elaborate puff of smoke the dark one and the elven witch shallendara disappeared , leaving the lieutenant malachi behind .
tares glanced uneasily at nikolai but the necromancer was merely gazing ahead indifferently .
you heard our lord , the rituals will continue in the manner you have observed .
you and you , malachi singled out two of the other processional marches and directed them to the other altar on the nearby hill , the other group he directed to the third of the stone altars , leaving only tares and nikolais pseudo group standing before him in the darkness .
you , come up here , malachi ordered peremptorily , watching as the other marches moved off in the directions he had indicated .
walking slowly the remaining distance up the hill tares was encouraged , the wizard was now alone , they all had weapons and very soon they would be completely out of sight of the others .
by the time the dark one realized this lieutenant was dead it would be too late they would be well on their way to saxenburg .
the minotaur generally disliked killing but was willing to shed blood if necessary , and this was a clear case of necessity .
one life for all of theirs .
nikolai had obviously reached the same conclusion , even if he did not share the big minotaurs scruples , because he was marching purposefully up the small hill towards the wizard .
tares reached carefully under his robe to ensure that his heavy headed mace was in position but did not produce the weapon yet the wizard might yet leave them as well , as the dark one had done , thus rendering his death unnecessary .
before tares could formulate any further plans nikolai had reached the top of the small hill and walked straight up to the wizard standing before the stone altar , embracing malachi like a brother .
tares stopped abruptly in sheer astonishment .
nikolai , my old friend , malachi said warmly as he hugged the necromancer .
i knew it , wulfstan cried out as the others gasped in shock , its been a trap all along .
no , as usual wulfstan what you know wouldnt fill a small thimble , nikolai replied caustically before continuing , malachi is on our side .
hes our way out .
under arrest lord michael strong stood on the bow of the small boat watching as the high plains of saxenburg drifted slowly past .
the river roads of the kingdoms was not michael 's preferred method of travel , and leaving behind his beloved mount , heimdall had been a wrench .
however after his meeting with lord nexus he had not wanted to take the extra time to travel overland back to saxenburg .
by coming along the rivers he had cut his journey time in half and nexus had assured him that someone would follow along with heimdall as soon as possible .
this particular river junction would bring him to within a half days ride to both the tears of belenus and anglia , the capital city .
sighing michael pushed his heavy , silvery white hair back from his face and turned away from the view before heading back to the cramped quarters below deck that had been his home for the past two ten days .
inside the tiny bunk room the grand knight finished his packing , fitting everything he required into a medium sized leather pack .
mindful of the promise he had made to lord nexus , michael had originally intended to go straight to the black lotus monastery to speak with solomon about letting the mage have access to the monasterys library .
however , with patrick missing he recognized that he could ill afford to be absent from his knights for any longer than absolutely necessary .
consequently he had decided he would first check in at the tears of belenus before heading to the monastery .
as he was tying the last of the knots on his pack to secure it he heard unusual noises coming from above .
pausing , one hand on his sword hilt without even being consciously aware of it , michael listened , frowning slightly .
it sounded as though the boat was being hailed by guards although they had not yet arrived at their destination .
this was an unexpected development there were no guards on any of the river roads , only stationed at the boarding ports and around the cities .
straightening up he strained to hear more , surprised to hear that they were indeed being hailed and ordered to stop by what sounded like saxenburg guards .
shouldering his pack the grand knight pulled on his heavy gauntlets and set off up the nearly vertical ladder leading to the upper deck .
coming up on deck michael looked out to shore to see a full regiment of soldiers mounted on horses behind two senior guards standing on the shore .
grappling hooks had been used to bring the boat into shore and the knight could see that the men holding the ropes were struggling to hold on michael sent a brief prayer to belenus asking the god to stay the water temporarily .
immediately the boat came to a complete standstill , the ropes going slack .
at this overt sign of belenuss favor to his grand knight many of the waiting soldiers moved back , even their horses shying away .
the two senior guards , whom he recognized as bjorn and gunnar , both very senior soldiers in saxenburg 's army , paled slightly but held their ground .
this is an unexpected pleasure .
what can i do for you ?
he said , keeping his voice even , although he was certain there would be nothing pleasurable in this strange summons .
lord michael , i have come at the request of high king ulrich and order you to accompany my men and i back to anglia for an immediate audience with the king .
bjorn answered , his tone almost mocking , secure in the overwhelming odds of his many men ranged against only lord michael and the small crew of the boat .
by all means , may i assume you have a mount for me ?
michael asked politely .
bjorn shot gunnar a confused look , which confirmed the knights initial suspicion that they had expected him to fight and , of course they would have expected him to lose .
sir that can be arranged , gunnar answered , stepping forward and indicating to one of the soldiers holding the now slack ropes to relinquish his horse to the grand knight .
wait a minute , bjorn hissed at gunnar , in what the knight guessed was intended to be a whisper but was nevertheless as carrying as bjorns usual tones , we cant just put him on a horse .
how do we know he wont just ride away ?
i thought i was being escorted to an audience with the king ?
michael said to bjorn , why should i ride away from such a privilege ?
the knight turned away from the spluttering bjorn and gravely thanked the boats captain and crew for a swift journey before jumping clear from the still boat to the grassy shore .
glancing in gunnars direction michael thought he detected a gleam of a suppressed smile on the young soldiers face .
without waiting for bjorn to direct him any further the grand knight walked confidently to the waiting horse , a large dirty brown mare , and mounted quickly .
well , he said , sweeping one hand before him in an obvious invitation to bjorn to mount , lead on .
michael watched , a small smile hidden by his long moustache , as bjorn reluctantly followed his orders and mounted his horse .
jogging his horse forward the grand knight drew level with the frowning bjorn and gave the young soldier a paternal pat on the shoulder .
you know if you had waited to meet me at the quay you would have saved yourself and your men at least a days ride and you wouldnt have anyone walking home either .
just something for you to think about for next time son , michael said giving him a cheery wave before moving forward , as though he were leading this pack of soldiers instead of being their virtual prisoner .
lord michael managed to maintain his outward appearance of smiling , nonchalant calm throughout the afternoons ride , yet inwardly he was furious .
it galled him to be taken prisoner , however politely , but he would not throw his life away needlessly by any attempted escape .
michael knew that he would one day make the ultimate sacrifice of belenus and die for the cause but his death would be an honorable one , not one that came from fighting those he had sworn to serve .
he would not cause the deaths of even one of these young soldiers who were only following orders , not even the officious bjorn , so resigned himself to the afternoon ride .
ulrich was another matter and he vowed to belenus that the arrogant prince would pay for his presumption .
bad enough that ulrich had usurped his fathers role as high king but to move against the knights of belenus , sworn to saxenburg 's service was far worse .
the knights of belenus had been inviolate for eons , ever since the foundation of the tears of belenus , which legend said had been founded by belenus after the war of the gods , the conflict where belenus had become the chief deity of all kaynos gods .
it was the very sanctity of the knighthood that allowed the servants of belenus to be effective at all .
the people of kaynos knew that regardless of their race , profession or even their religious creed , they could find sanctuary , healing or assistance from any one of the knights of belenus .
it was the entire foundation that the knighthood was built on .
when the warrior monks of the black lotus were expelled from their original home in the deserts of kemet for violation of kemetian law due to their collection of arcane texts , it had been the knights of belenus who had found them a new home .
resettling the monks in the warren of caves dotted throughout the extinct volcano of the castellan mountains in saxenburg .
when the high elves of the kingdom of kodeshka had elected to open their borders to allow trade with the other kingdoms of kaynos it had been the knights of belenus that had facilitated that event .
helping the elves train envoys to travel throughout the land and using the knights to spread the news among the kingdoms .
people came to the knights because of their honesty , integrity and because they answered to no one but belenus , despite being sworn to protect saxenburg 's royal family .
that ulrich would consider himself to be above the unspoken law of non interference that had held for centuries beyond counting was utterly incomprehensible to michael .
the question of how and why ulrich had felt able to move against the knights was one that preoccupied michael 's mind during the long ride to saxenburg .
obviously nexuss suspicions that ulrich was allied with the witch shallendara were well founded .
the grand knight doubted that ulrich would dared make such a move without powerful allies behind him .
even so ulrich 's arrogance was astounding .
michael believed the most disturbing aspect of ulrich 's behavior was not even his alliance with shallendara , but his usurpation of the throne .
ulrich either knew , or had strong reason to believe , that high king erich would not be returning to saxenburg , and that could mean only one thing .
he hated to think it but he had to concede it was likely , even probable that ulrich was responsible for king erichs disappearance .
the journey should only have taken a little over two days however with bjorn insisting on the many guards riding a circular perimeter around michael the trip had taken nearly twice as long .
it was late on the afternoon of the fourth day , with the sapphire moon just beginning its ascent , when the towering white stone walls of anglia city came into view .
anglia was saxenburgs oldest city and had been the capital for almost a thousand years .
nestled against the only possible site for a harbor on the rugged eastern coastline the city was protected on all sides .
to the north were sheer cliffs leading down to a treacherous inlet , the east was guarded by the vast expanse of the eastern sea and the huge stone walls guarded the southern and western gates into the city .
built on the highest point of the plain lands anglia was an extremely easy city to defend .
as they rode towards the massive horned gate in the west wall of the city , michael wondered if that was the reason why he had chosen to move the headquarters of the tears of belenus out of the city proper .
twenty years ago , when he had been elected grand knight , michael had abandoned the elaborate and luxurious temple complex in anglia and rebuilt the headquarters .
it was now a much more modest group of buildings located a half days ride from the city on the plains where the inlet from the eastern sea became the castellan river .
the headquarters were now , as the god had intended them to be , open and inviting to all and any who required the services of the knights .
anglia in comparison , with its walls forty feet high and ten feet thick and the two enormous wooden gates , the horned gate they were approaching and the hammer gate in the south , with their wide reinforced bands of dwarven steel , was a veritable fortress , neither open nor inviting .
although with ixlan under the dark ones control and only a day away across the eastern sea it had likely been prudent of erichs father , vidar , to reinforce the city as he had .
as they rode through the great horned gate the knight noticed that ulrich had made some extensive changes during his month long absence .
while saxenburg had long maintained a large standing army soldiers were not a common sight in the streets , at least not dressed for battle .
now everywhere michael looked he saw soldiers , some guarding the gates , others walking the streets and the people seemed terrified of them .
from what he could see michael estimated that ulrich had tripled the size of anglia 's army .
that was evidence of very long term planning .
riding through the paved streets towards the palace michael saw signs of other changes ulrichs reign had effected .
the typically bustling streets of anglia were unusually quiet , eerily reminiscent of the streets of diablis in ixlan after the dark one had taken over .
normally at this early twilight hour , anglia , indeed all of saxenburg , like most of the cities in the northern parts of kaynos , would still be busy and industrious .
the marketplace and street vendors should still be trading and the people going about their business , often until the rise of the ruby moon .
now , just after the sapphire moon had risen , most of the marketplaces were closed , shutters were closed in peoples homes , even the inns and taverns had done little more than light the traditional travelers lamp , which always sat in the front window of any of these types of businesses .
as they drew closer to the palace , situated in the centre of the city , michael saw the most disturbing changes yet .
anglias large palace complex was laid out in a diamond pattern .
the palace , home to the royal family and the seat of saxenburgs political power was located in the centre of the diamond with four smaller buildings forming the points of the diamond pattern .
the palace complex had only two entrances , one facing the south and the other facing west or to the rear of the palace .
just inside the western entrance stood a small guardhouse , under high king erich it was little more than a formality and manned by a single guard .
now there were at least six soldiers guarding the entrance that michael could see and beyond that was a courtyard hidden from view of the bulk of the palace complex .
this courtyard had once been used to house the palaces many hunting dogs , and to one side michael could see that the dogs were still there , although they were now penned up in kennels lining the wall of the armory .
now michael saw at once this space was being put to a very different use .
an executioners block , bearing myriad chips from the axe and stained black with blood , stood proudly in the very centre .
the dark stain spreading out around it confirming michael 's worst fears that once again heads were being taken with regularity in anglia .
something that had not been practiced in saxenburg for centuries .
dismounting in the palace stables , near the main entrance to the palace the grand knight felt sick to his stomach , disgusted with ulrich 's duplicity and revolted by the evidence of his growing tyranny .
bjorn and gunnar , along with a score of soldiers , moved in front of michael , another score of guards taking up a position behind and beside him , as if they were still waiting for him to attempt an escape .
in this tight formation they all marched through the wide palace doors .
once inside michael 's guards had to assume an even closer perimeter around him as they marched him towards the reception hall .
high king erichs elegant reception hall was a large and airy room easily fifty feet in diameter and paneled with dark maple imported from the kingdom of kodeshka .
it had graceful marble pillars , made by the mountain dwarves of laxdale , both functional , supporting the weight of the high vaulted ceiling and beautiful lining the sides of the rectangular room .
the hall boasted two long tables carved in the same dark maple , with comfortable high backed chairs padded with soft fur cushions .
at the back of the room had once stood the five thrones for the royal family , although michael noted sourly that ulrich had removed them all , except for the high throne .
the hand of witchcraft michael , ulrich said looking down at the knight from his position on the high throne , so nice of you to join me .
ulrich , michael answered , ignoring the hard shove in his back indicating he should kneel .
you will address the high king as his majesty , bjorn hissed in michael 's ear , pushing hard on his shoulder in an attempt to force the knight to kneel .
without conscious thought michael opened himself up to the power of belenus , feeling the rush of almost electrical power course through his body , forcing away bjorns hand and knocking the young soldier to the ground in the process .
the surrounding soldiers jumped back , uttering little yelps and gasps in fear .
he realized that they had , quite simply , forgotten the power at the grand knights disposal .
it was not in his nature to wish to bring harm to anyone for any reason but he also knew sometimes a display of force or power , even to the point of causing pain or death , was the only way .
i see the god favors you still , michael , ulrich said quietly , although the knight was pleased to note that the would be kings face was a little pale .
a knight retains the favor of belenus as long as he serves the will of the crying god .
you should know that ulrich , you were once trained in the ways of the knighthood , in fact i taught you myself .
oh i remember , michael .
i simply no longer claim any allegiance to , nor deference of belenus .
there is no longer any need .
i see , you hold yourself and your actions above the gods , above the chief of all the gods ?
i hold all men above the gods .
the gods and their petty powers are no longer of any importance , ulrich answered with a small smirk before turning to one of his attending guards and giving a whispered instruction .
michael kept his face impassive although he felt a sinking sense of foreboding .
he believed he knew the nature of ulrich 's whispered instruction and was certain it would provide the answer to his arrogance , his usurpation of his fathers throne and his renunciation of kaynos gods .
after a brief wait the guard returned , alone .
this surprised michael he had been expecting the guard to summon the elven witch , shallendara .
instead the young guard handed ulrich a small , wooden box and resumed his former position .
you see michael , inside this box lies the answer to the questions i know must be burning within you .
i hold here in my hand , ulrichs voice was taunting as he caressed the small box , more power than you have dreamed of and far , far more power than the gods ever granted to any being .
this , ulrich held the box up slightly allowing michael to see there was a symbol of some sort carved into the lid of the box , has granted me , and those who choose to be loyal to me , freedom from the tyranny imposed by belenus and all his kind .
no longer do we have to debase ourselves , giving up our treasures , making continual sacrifices in the hopes of petty blessings .
now we are free to keep all our treasures , dispense with the sacrifices and bring about our own blessings .
what say you to that michael ?
i say ulrich you mock the gods , any of the gods , at your own peril .
whatever power you think you have discovered lies under the command and control of the gods of kaynos .
it is not yours .
somehow i knew you would say that , ulrich said laughing loudly , and yet , you will see michael .
you may leave us now , ulrich said to bjorn and the accompanying guards , who left reluctantly as though they did not trust the score of guards remaining in the reception hall .
now michael , i would like you to tell me where you have been this past month , ulrich asked silkily .
im sure that you would ulrich , however , i have no intention of telling you anything .
whether or not you choose to trample the traditions of saxenburg and deny the gods is your own affair .
however , the running of the knights of belenus is my affair and its business is between myself and my god .
i would have expected no other answer from you michael .
but despite your reluctance , ulrich said as he slowly opened the carved box , you will tell me everything i need to know .
you will have no choice , and no protection .
ulrichs laugh was high pitched , almost girlish in his anticipation of using whatever was contained within the box .
michael watched warily as ulrich withdrew a large chunk of crystal , roughly the size of a mans fist and clear , yet with hints of many colors within its depths .
the would be high king stood up and held the chunk of crystal to his chest .
michaels sense of foreboding grew as ulrich began to walk towards him .
suddenly michaels mind felt clouded , as though he were drunk on mead or wine .
he tried to pray , to appeal to belenus to aid him , but found he could not form the words , even in his mind .
standing there he watched ulrich approaching him , drawing closer and closer .
michael could feel his body swaying beyond his ability to stop .
something about the crystal was wiping his mind clean , stripping him of his memories and emotions , leaving him an empty vessel .
the only rational thought or feeling michael retained was a growing sense of fear he could not fight this power and the god either could not , or would not assist him .
now michael , you are going to tell me everything i want to know .
where you have been , who you have seen and why , ulrich asked again .
michael tried to fight the fog in his mind , tried to resist the urge to simply answer ulrich 's question but he was powerless .
it was as though he stood outside of himself , watching a stranger .
he could hear his own voice answering , telling ulrich everything of his journey to the republic of malerok , his meeting with nexus and their plans to stop the coming war .
how long he stood there answering ulrich 's questions michael did not know .
his mind so clouded it seemed to last both an instant and an eternity .
eventually the fog began to clear michael felt his wits slowly return to him as if he had woken from a dream .
ulrich once more sat on the high throne and had replaced the clear crystal within its box once more .
thank you michael , ulrich said , his voice smug with triumph , i suspected as much but it is nice to have it confirmed .
it is also nice to demonstrate the power available to me .
i suggest that you and your traitorous friends think long and hard about the power we possess before you decide to fight against us .
you know now with this power , shallendara and those who have allied themselves with her , myself included , must surely win .
i concede nothing ulrich , for your tricks , and that is all they are will ultimately be exposed and defeated , michael responded heatedly .
believe what you will michael , it matters very little to me .
so little that i have decided that i do not need to have you killed .
as high king i could have you executed for treason , however , i hereby pronounce you exiled instead .
you have until sunset tomorrow .
i want you and all your knights out of anglia and out of saxenburg .
ulrich stood up and said casually over his shoulder , do not return , for i will not be so generous should i see you again michael .
michael stormed out of the palace .
his mind was a whirlpool of conflicting emotions , a towering rage at ulrich 's arrogance and treachery , a burning sense of humiliation , but underneath it all was a very real thread of true fear .
the powerlessness he had felt under the effects of ulrich 's crystal would not soon leave him .
what he did not understand was how shallendara had managed to imbue the crystal with witch type powers .
while it was true that traditional forms of magic , both arcane and divine , often used inanimate objects , such as a wizards staff or a priests talisman , as a receptacle for certain spells they could only be used by the original caster of the spell , or by a more powerful spellcaster .
michael knew that ulrich possessed no magical talent whatsoever so how was it possible that he had been able to use the crystal to perform witchcraft ?
if shallendara was capable of creating objects that allowed anyone to work magic then the war was going to be far more difficult to fight than he could ever have believed .
michael ignored ulrichs order of immediate exile and went instead to call upon the monks of the black lotus at their library located adjacent to the citys main temple to belenus .
the temple stood on a small rise overlooking the triangular harbor , a squat rectangular building made of pure white marble with graceful archways and two enormous , perfectly round openings in the roof glazed with real glass , allowing belenuss pure and holy rays to illuminate the temple .
at the eastern end of the temple , right up against the cliff , was the monasterys library .
it was built like all the monks libraries , shaped like a five pointed star with each point of the star representing a different area of learning while the main office and reception area , for those rare guests the monks allowed into their libraries , were received in the centre of the star .
unlike the temple , which was only a single story , the library was comprised of many floors , two of which were visible above ground but michael knew there were at least two levels cut deep into the earth , and probably more than that .
the monks did not give up their many secrets easily , even to friends of long standing .
as michael drew nearer to the temple he noted with sadness , although not surprise , that the temple doors were boarded shut , no lamps shone in any of the windows and there was no sign of any activity .
ulrich had obviously moved just as quickly and as brutally against the temples as he had against the knights .
michael could only pray the monks had not fallen victim to the same fate .
more than ever before michael needed the assistance of the monks , in particular their intimate knowledge of saxenburgs subterranean caverns .
using the caverns was the only was that michael could evacuate all the knights before ulrich 's impossible deadline .
the black lotus monastery although it was not boarded up the library was closed and dark with little to indicate whether or not there was anyone inside .
given the secretive nature of the monks the closed library may have had little to do with any moves ulrich may have made against them .
taking a chance that someone remained in the library michael marched to the front door and knocked .
sharper than a sword , deadlier than poison , brighter than the eastern star , endless as the ocean , came a muffled voice from behind the heavy wooden door .
only knowledge can be as sharp as a blade , as deadly as a poison , brighter than any star and like the ocean has no end , michael replied , praying he had remembered the correct wording .
hearing the bolts slide back from inside michael breathed a sigh of relief , he must have remembered the code correctly .
the heavy door opened silently inwards , revealing a patch of even deeper darkness inside , and after a quick glance around the deserted streets he stepped over the threshold .
once he was inside the door was bolted closed behind him , leaving him standing in an absolute and unnatural blackness .
after a few moments , during which time his eyes never adjusted to the dark , which confirmed his suspicion that the blackness was the result of a spell , a young woman approached , carrying a small candle in an elaborate boat shaped holder that had been carved from bone by its appearance .
tall and slender , with strawberry blonde hair falling in waves to her waist , the woman wore a long flowing robe of coarse linen , dyed the palest purple and decorated with a single lotus blossom on the left sleeve .
from memory michael knew the lotus on the left indicated the young woman was a lore keeper , had she been a warrior monk the lotus blossom would have been embroidered on the right sleeve .
lord michael , i am anifrig chief lore keeper here and i regret to say that i have been expecting you , she said her voice low and reminded michael inexplicably of honey .
i dont doubt that for a moment anifrig , given the things ive seen since my return .
i have come to beg for the monastery 's aid if youll grant it , and if its possible an interview with solomon .
our aid you shall have , of course , lord michael but i am afraid an interview with solomon will not be possible anifrig im sure youve seen enough to realize that i do not ask lightly , i understand , michael began but the young lore keeper interrupted him .
solomon has already left anglia , lord michael .
since ulrich 's ascension to the throne life in saxenburg has become , difficult , shall we say , for any who oppose him , or appear to anyway .
michael could only stare blankly before shaking his head .
it seemed as though since he had left for malerok his world had turned upside down , becoming unrecognizable , as though he wandered now in a nightmare .
quickly the knight took hold of himself the lives of the knights of belenus depended on him and whatever assistance the black lotus was still able or prepared to offer .
how long ago did solomon leave ?
four days ago , when the proclamation was made of ulrich 's kingship and pending coronation .
he feared for the life of the princess ursula .
you are unlikely to be aware that the princess discovered that queen urda had been murdered .
ulrich moved , brutally against the alleged assassin , claimed to be the aging queens dwarven handmaid , she was the first of the ritual beheadings in anglia .
michael swore softly under his breath .
in light of all that he had witnessed since his return the news was not unexpected but it was another blow , he had known gilta , the handmaid personally and knew of her complete loyalty .
if you will follow me lord michael i have some things that solomon left here , he foresaw they would be needed , anifrig continued , before she turned away and walked down a long hallway illuminated only by the small circle of light from the candle .
i am afraid i can not lift the spell of darkness , nor would it be prudent to do so at this time .
one of the local wizards placed the spell after solomon left .
i have rarely ventured outside the library .
i elected to wait here for your return .
it is my understanding that most of the anglia guards , the new guards at any rate , believe the library to be abandoned , anifrig said .
a sensible ruse given my recent reception at the palace , michael said .
anifrig merely smiled in response .
soon they had reached a white painted wooden door at the end of the long corridor .
opening the door michael saw dim lighting coming from below , moving forward he noted a staircase leading down , lit at the bottom with torches illuminating the staircase and probably the room beyond .
as you can see lord michael the spell need only to be in place on the floors above ground , anifrig said , still smiling , if you will follow me , and she began to walk down the stairs , after first ensuring the door was closed and bolted behind them .
they passed two other floors before the staircase emptied into a cavernous circular room , roughly fifty feet in diameter that had been rough hewn from the bare stone .
from his position on the bottom step michael saw there were three passages leading off from this central room .
between the stairs and the nearest wall , on michaels right , were set up several stone tables , which were essentially giant boulders whose tops had been flattened and polished to create a tabletop .
the stone tables were scattered with what appeared to be maps , diagrams and other assorted parchments and scrolls .
against the far wall were innumerable shelves , all brightly illuminated from the many lanterns attached to the stone walls and placed between each shelf .
the shelves contents ranged from books and scrolls , to clothing and armor , food and water supplies and even spell components , potions and unguents .
michael was astonished but the rooms held still more surprises .
to his left , against the same wall as the stairs , were a series of cots , arranged barracks style , lining the curve of the wall all the way to the mouth of the nearest passage .
the lines of beds disappeared into the shadows but the knight estimated there to be easily four or five hundred of the cot beds .
between the passage near the bunks and the next passage , which was closest to the shelves , was what seemed to be a kitchen area .
there was an enormous fireplace cut directly into the rock , which had heavy iron pots resting over or near the flames and a long wooden table directly in front .
set at a small distance from the main table there were other wooden tables , each lined with low , backless benches on either side .
from his vantage point at the bottom of the stairs michael could see little else , as the room stretched out into shadows , but everywhere he looked the room was a hive of activity .
michael turned to anifrig in stunned disbelief .
how ?
he said , stammering in his sheer amazement , how have you done this ?
this is not a recent development lord michael , anifrig answered , gently amused , when the monks were expelled from kemet over a hundred years ago the leaders of that time were determined they would never allow themselves to become so vulnerable to the whims of ruling governments again .
perhaps better than anyone in the kingdoms we know that rulers change , politics change , laws change only knowledge remains immutable .
so the decision was made that all of the various monasteries and libraries throughout the kingdoms would need to be in some way connected .
with some assistance the monks of that time period effectively created an underground kingdom .
how far , michael was awed by the implications of what he could see , what he was being told , i mean , just how much land does this underground kingdom cover ?
far more than you might imagine , lord michael but less than you would fear .
our aims remain as they always have , to gain knowledge not power or control .
now , these precautions will be able to bring about a great deal of aid in the coming war .
you already know then ?
he asked surprised , although he reminded himself that he should not have been .
it was highly likely the monks had known of the impending war long before he or even the mage , nexus had known anything .
oh yes , we have known for some time that war was inevitable , and as you can see here solomon has been preparing .
much of this particular facility will be moved , however , given ulrich 's current agenda .
we will likely have to make our move soon , probably in the next few days .
she paused , frowning slightly .
i have been left to make that ultimate decision , the young lore keeper continued , and feel certain that the move must come before the coronation but until then we must utilize our resources and remove the knights of belenus to solomons new proposed location .
and where is that , if i may know ?
michael was grateful for the assistance but he was also slightly put out at how much had been done without either his knowledge or his consent .
of course you must know lord michael for you will naturally play a vital role in the days to come .
the new location is the castellan kemetian mountains near the site of our original home .
michael threw back his head and laughed aloud at the irony , the only thing he had found to laugh about since he had returned to his homeland .
trusting the enemy slade pushed back the hood of his heavy robe and stood watching as nikolai held an urgent , whispered conversation with the dark ones lieutenant .
he had been as shocked as wulfstan when the necromancer had embraced malachi .
being a spell caster himself he did not share wulfstans distrust of magic but now slade was beginning to wonder if perhaps the soldier had not been right to mistrust nikolai .
as though he sensed slades thoughts nikolai turned towards the former prince , bringing out his small dagger which he used to cut the ropes binding them all together .
i realize that you have probably all got a lot of questions , you especially slade , nikolai said as he worked , all i ask is for you to trust me a little while longer .
i never trusted you in the first place , wulfstan spat angrily .
slade , look , nikolai appealed directly to slade , ignoring wulfstan , im not armed , apart from that im also exhausted .
you can see for yourself that malachis not armed .
i swear to you on the name of bhaal that this is not a trap .
i just need you to trust me for a little while longer .
i will swear on the name of thoth that i mean none of you any harm , malachi broke in , his voice low and intense .
the chief lieutenants weather beaten face had the thick , full lips , high cheekbones and broad forehead of the kemetian natives and his close cropped black hair was just touched with silver at the temples .
malachis large , liquid dark eyes appeared soft and kind and he had an air of quiet dignity .
slade looked up at the lieutenant , surprised .
he knew that thoth was the god of the book , dedicated to learning , knowledge and maintaining the balance .
thoth was the male counterpart and consort of his own beloved woodland goddess , suelta .
if malachi were a worshipper of thoth then slades inclination was to trust him .
the question remained as to how it was possible that a follower of thoth could work so closely with the dark one ?
although slade wanted to trust the dark skinned wizard , and to continue to trust in nikolai , he felt there were far too many unanswered questions .
slade was reluctantly coming to the conclusion that wulfstan had likely been right about nikolai all along .
trunk like malachi , he trunk friend , the ogre troll rumbled as he too moved to embrace the wizard , just as nikolai had .
at the sight slade gave vent to a deep and frustrated sigh .
regardless of his personal feelings about nikolai the warning dream slade had been given about his father had made it abundantly clear that he was to follow the trunk , and that meant slade would accept whoever trunk was willing to accept .
all right , nikolai , slade said finally , his reluctance obvious , it appears we will have to trust you for a while longer .
what ?
wulfstan turned on slade in shocked anger , are you crazy ?
this mage has gotten us into nothing but trouble , how can you keep on trusting him ?
wulfstan , tares interrupted before slade had a chance to answer , i do not like the necromancer any more than you do , however , i do believe that we are all , for the moment , on the same side .
hes got to you too tares ?
unbelievable .
what is it you do to people nikolai ?
some kind of mind control ?
get everyone thinking youre the good guy ?
well you cant control my mind .
which only proves that i have no such power , the mage answered caustically , for if i did i could easily control such a tiny mind as yours .
wulfstan started to move forward , his hand going to the blade he wore underneath his robes only to find himself held back by both tares and slade .
we will serve little good and achieve nothing if we fight among ourselves , tares appealed to wulfstan .
say what you like , wulfstan answered angrily , shaking both of them off him , i dont trust him and i never will but fine , go ahead , do what you like .
are you planning on leaving us then wulfstan ?
nikolai inquired in a dangerously quiet voice .
oh youd like that wouldnt you ?
stop it , both of you , slade cut in , nikolai , i presume were not going to stand on this hillside all night ?
although nikolai would have dearly loved to cut down the arrogant wulfstan he knew that he had already lost a great deal of slades trust and could not afford to lose more .
instead he turned with a tight lipped smile and explained that malachi had a secure place near the eastern harbor where they could all spend the rest of the night .
after a good nights sleep they would board a specially prepared boat at dawn that would take them to saxenburg .
once they reached the secure hiding spot , nikolai went on , he and malachi would both be perfectly willing to answer any and all of slades questions .
at that comment slade merely raised his eyebrows .
the necromancer had already told him twice before in the space of this single day that he would be totally honest with slade and yet each time slade had discovered nikolai had , in fact , not been completely forthright .
slade doubted very much that nikolai would be any more forthcoming on this occasion than he had been on the previous ones .
still , slade told himself , soon enough he would be home in saxenburg where he would be able to see for himself how much of the necromancers story was true and how much was false .
in a sullen silence that spoke volumes the group set out down the other side of the hill , nikolai and malachi in the lead .
with the exception of lara , who seemed to take every new development in her stride , everyone else seemed to be preoccupied , each one with their own thoughts .
slade found himself mulling over the things nikolai had told him earlier .
the necromancer had admitted that he had not been completely honest with slade .
in fact nikolai had implied that he was not sure whether or not he could trust slade .
at that thought slade almost laughed .
that nikolai was as unsure of him as he was of the necromancer was perhaps the most bizarre of all the days disturbing revelations .
as the sapphire moon began to rise the group trudged wearily across the eastern plain of ixlan towards the harbor , a journey of close to eight miles .
slade was exhausted in body , mind and spirit .
the horrors of his stay in diablis had left him weak and ill equipped for the exertions of today .
it was only the sense of urgency he felt regarding his father that continued to drive the young druid forward .
nikolai had spoken of the dangers posed to the kingdoms , of the need to unite against a greater threat .
in his heart , slade knew that his motivation , his only motivation , was his own family .
when they had spoken earlier nikolai had seemed convinced that high king erich was likely dead , his brother ulrich , allied with shallendara and already on the throne and had claimed ignorance of the fate of slades beloved sister , ursula .
regardless of whatever else may happen along this journey slade was determined to find out the fates of every member of his family .
eventually the group reached the outskirts of a small fishing village , remarkably clean and intact compared with its twin on the western side of diablis city .
the village had been arranged in a loose semi circle around the harbor .
there were private homes nestled beside market stalls and other businesses , all closed tight for the night .
as they were approaching from diablis , which was set on high ground , the tiny village was spread out before them .
malachi walked the group confidently to a small , two story building close to the harbor that had obviously once been used as an inn or a boarding house .
although clean the darkened village appeared to be deserted , but on closer examination slade noted small signs that indicated there were still people living in the village .
what is this place ?
he asked malachi .
a leftover , the dark skinned wizard said sadly , looking around him .
before the dark one took over here all , or most at least , of ixlan was like this , malachi continued , little villages made up of groups of families living on the coast .
they were not rich but they made a decent living , fishing mostly but also processing coastal herbs and flowers for trade .
then he came and all of that ended .
some of the villages , like this one , found the only way to survive was to become invisible .
they do whats required , theyve learned to say all the right things but try to stay their own people , retain their old way of life .
most of the people here still even worship niord , the sea god , but theyre some of the last .
as the others walked wearily into the boarding house slade paused for a moment on the doorstep , looking around .
never before had it been made so clear to him the damage that had been wrought in this once beautiful island paradise .
now finally , seeing this small village with its villagers hiding in their darkened houses , slade was coming to understand his fathers fervent desire to reclaim this land .
breathing deeply of the sea air slade vowed to suelta that if ever the time came where he could help to free these people , he would do it .
a sudden breeze through the treetops caused the leaves to rustle a subtle sign from suelta that she had accepted his vow .
turning slade walked inside , closing the wooden door behind him .
the main room of the boarding house was a large , square room taking up most of the lower floor .
to slades left was an open fireplace against the wall that had obviously not been used in many years , with uncomfortable looking high backed chairs ranged in semi circle around the fireplace .
on his right was a long , scratched wooden table with two low benches placed on either side , evidently used for communal meals .
at the back of the room a set of doors probably led into the kitchen area , and likely whatever bathroom accommodations this building possessed , and the remaining door would likely lead to a storage room .
in the far left hand corner was a set of rickety looking stairs .
after the austerity of his cell in diablis prison it seemed almost as luxurious as the palace at anglia to slade .
how secure is this malachi ?
nikolai asked .
for a night , fine .
i wouldnt risk any longer than that but you wont have to , i have the ship ready to leave at first light .
theres food by the way , nothing fancy but something to fill your bellies , malachi continued indicating the rickety staircase , there are beds upstairs , again nothing fancy but good enough to stretch out on for a few hours rest .
once youre on board ship , of course , youll have a couple of days to really recuperate it doesnt take more than a day to sail from here to saxenburg , slade interrupted .
malachi and nikolai exchanged a quick glance , causing slade to abandon his initial idea of postponing his questions for later in favor of getting some sleep now he saw clearly he would not have that luxury .
you said there was food ?
slade asked , continuing when malachi nodded , well eat first and then talk .
all of us .
the meal was simple and easily prepared and soon they were all sitting at the long wooden table , drinking spring water out of rough wooden cups .
slade smiled slightly as he noted how the group had arranged themselves .
trunk , due to his size , sat at the narrow end of the table furthest from the door beside him on the bench nearest the wall were nikolai , then malachi , lara and roulibard .
sitting on the opposite bench tares sat closest to trunk , with darzan next to him , slade sitting next to the beautiful pirate woman and wulfstan opposite roulibard .
almost , slade thought to himself , as though it were the good guys versus the bad guys if the situation had not been so serious slade might have found it amusing .
i would like to start by telling all of you , slade said quietly , that i do not begin to understand why the gods have seen fit to throw this rather unusual group together , but i believe in my heart that its important .
while we were still inside the prison nikolai , you told us certain things , most of which i now know were not strictly truthful .
since then youve told me some other things , again you werent completely honest .
slade held up one hand flat for silence when he saw wulfstan open his mouth , he did not lie , wulfstan .
let me make that plain to everyone , to the best of my knowledge nikolai has not told any of us an outright lie .
although he has , slade paused , searching for the right words , rearranged the truth somewhat .
what he has told me is more than enough to disturb me .
what i want to do now , and i realize that were all tired , im tired , but this is important .
so , what id like to do is have every one of us come clean .
we all have elements to this story but for probably a lot of reasons , we , and i include every one of us is keeping something back even me .
slade was wryly amused at the sudden rapt attention his statement had generated , particularly from nikolai .
i will share my secret with you but first i would like nikolai to share a few secrets with us , slade concluded .
all eyes turned to the necromancer as nikolai sat with his back against the wall .
the efforts of the day could be seen clearly in the dark shadows under his clear blue eyes and the fine lines around his beautifully modeled mouth .
slade could not claim to actually like the necromancer , in fact the young druid found him slightly repellent , yet to his surprise he felt he was coming to respect nikolai .
well first of all i owe you an apology slade , nikolai began leaning forward with his elbows on the table , i initially thought of you as someone weak , you couldnt handle the pressure of court life so had run away to play in the trees .
i see now that i was wrong , youre not weak and i think youre a real leader .
slade good .
trunk like slade , trunk interjected .
yes he is , my big friend , nikolai laughed , giving the first genuine smile slade had ever seen on the mages face , although hes probably more to your taste than mine .
trunk not eat slade .
trunk not eat people , trunk said , his broad , grotesque face screwed up in disgust .
as everyone laughed and reassured the ogre troll , slade eyed trunk speculatively .
trunks seemingly inept command of the common tongue had gone a long way to lowering the rising tension level in the room .
it suddenly occurred to slade to wonder exactly who and what trunk really was , and how he had come to be so inextricably linked with nikolai .
that said , nikolai began again , if you will all bear with me for a moment i would like to start at the beginning .
my beginning .
a little over two years ago now my mentor , lord nexus , received some disturbing information that was , unfortunately , very incomplete .
nexus asked me to go to the northern badlands to further investigate .
he also asked me to go with a companion .
nikolai paused , looking at trunk , his eyes shadowed with sadness .
that companion was sir patrick san decroix .
an unlikely friendship slade found he was somewhat surprised , even though he had known that nikolai was working with and for lord michael strong it still came as a shock to hear that the necromancer had worked closely with sir patrick , second in command to lord michael and one of the most famous names in all the kingdoms .
looking up the table towards tares , slade saw that this information came as no surprise to the minotaur priest .
nor , slade noted as he glanced across the table , was it a surprise to the halfling woman , lara .
patrick and i worked extremely well together , far better than i could ever have imagined .
in fact , we became friends .
unlikely friends maybe , but still friends .
and i mean that in every sense of the word , patrick and i became closer than brothers .
in fact , he saved my life , twice .
nikolai stopped and stared down at the wooden table top .
watching him it was obvious to slade that nikolais friendship with sir patrick was not only very real , but had come as a complete surprise to the necromancer .
in any case our mission was very successful .
nikolai continued eventually , we discovered that someone , at that stage we didnt know who it was , was recruiting people of all races and that those people then seemed to disappear .
it seemed pretty clear to both of us that someone was preparing a secret army .
it also became very clear , fairly early on , that this was no ordinary army .
everyone that was recruited shared one common trait .
witchcraft , the interruption surprisingly came from roulibard .
yes .
nikolai answered , witchcraft .
every one who had disappeared had , at one time or another , been accused of witchcraft .
as you can probably imagine , at that time , this left us with more questions than answers .
after all witchcraft was just an anomaly , something weird that happened sometimes with old women in villages .
it wasnt something that anyone took seriously , except to hunt them down and kill them .
well , from what we discovered they were still being hunted , but now they were being recruited .
makes you think maybe we shouldve just kept killing them , wulfstan muttered quietly , his fear at the thought of witchcraft obvious to slade although possibly not to the others .
only you wulfstan , nikolai began his face flushed brick red , his hands bunching into fists that left his knuckles white .
trunk reached out and laid one huge hand on nikolais shoulder , almost slade thought , as though the creature was comforting the necromancer .
his upper lip curling in disgust nikolai leaned back , obviously determined to ignore wulfstans comment .
as i was saying , we knew that an army was being formed but we didnt know who was behind it , and could only guess at why .
just before we left the badlands we also learned that there were people , we thought they were from the silent hand and they were looking for the dragon clans , nikolai paused dramatically .
what ?
slade was horrified the thought of the damage that could be wrought by a single dragon , let alone colonies of them was absolutely terrifying .
exactly .
we suspected that whoever was behind the secret army was likely behind the search for the dragon clans as well but we didnt know .
we got back to malerok .
lord nexus was waiting for us .
he and lord michael had uncovered information of their own , and patrick and i gave nexus our report .
it all tied in with the information he and lord michael had discovered , which when put together , gave us a name .
shallendara .
she had been on the council of nine in malerok but was dismissed for having some rather , how shall i put this , unsavory notions .
after that she had seems to have disappeared and no one really knew where she was .
there would be reports , occasionally , of different places where she was said to have been seen .
the one thing we knew for certain was that she had been to the hidden palace to see the dark one and we were pretty sure she had been to brikenwald court to see king karlos .
lord michael had also managed to prove , i realize now through lara , that the silent hand were very much involved in all of this .
not , as i misled you earlier slade , to assassinate any member of saxenburgs royal family .
their job was solely to eliminate anyone that shallendara and those with her , considered to be a threat to their plans including myself and patrick .
is that why hes not with you any more ?
slade asked , willing for the moment to ignore the anguish that the necromancer had subjected him to through his misrepresentation of the facts .
i almost wish that were true , if patrick were dead that would be one thing but this , nikolai broke off , obviously upset and hung his head , and i blame myself .
even though we had a lot of information , we really knew enough to begin to prepare but i insisted on going back .
i believed we could find out more and that the more we knew the better prepared we could all be .
i convinced patrick and together we convinced lords nexus and michael to let us make one more trip to the badlands .
as it was we were captured almost immediately .
we were barely across the border , just south of fort doom .
they separated us at once .
i was tortured and questioned for hours at a time , and it went on for days while they tried to figure out how much i knew .
finally with some help from a friend i was able to escape , and he said hed help patrick as well .
i made my way back to a spot that patrick and i had arranged in advance and waited for him there .
i got the shock of my life when trunk wandered in three days later .
i almost killed him .
then he gave me this , nikolai said pulling out the ring of belenus and placing it on the table .
slade stared at the ring , then at trunk and then nikolai , unable to comprehend what he knew this must all mean .
he kept trying to tell himself that he was tired , that he was overwrought , and yet he knew that every word the necromancer had said was true .
the evidence of the mages truthfulness was written all over nikolais face , including the shine of tears in his eyes .
you mean that trunk ?
but , i , i dont understand , slade stammered .
neither do i exactly but somehow while they held patrick they transformed him intothis , nikolai gestured towards trunk with a small shrug , and he calls himself trunk now .
i dont know how they did it , i dont know how to fix it and i have no idea exactly how its affected him .
he can communicate and some of the time seems to be almost like himself , but for most of the time hes just , well , just like he is now .
outwardly he seems to have characteristics of both ogres and trolls , which is why hes still suffering from the fire because as im sure you all know , fire is the worst thing in the world for trolls .
its the one thing they cant regenerate against .
i think , but im not certain , that most or all of his healing powers are still there but he obviously cant cast any complex spells that require verbal prayers or spell components .
but he remembers me and , even though he must know that what has happened to him is my fault , he doesnt blame me .
as nikolai lowered his head trunk reached out and clumsily patted the mage on the head , very much , slade thought to himself , like a parent would comfort a child .
we were planning on making our way back to malerok , nikolai eventually continued when he had regained his composure , when trunk was captured again .
that was a ten day ago .
i probably shouldve continued on to malerok , let someone else deal with it but i couldnt do it .
i followed , waiting for a chance to get him out of their clutches again .
i actually broke into the prison , although the dark one knew well i was there , he just didnt think id get out again .
most of the rest you already know .
i only went there to save trunk and my goal is to get him to lord michael , who im hoping will be able to cure him .
as for you are concerned , slade , i overhead a few conversations while i was a captive in the badlands , and all of them were about you .
i never heard enough to put all the pieces together but it was obvious to me that the hand , and shallendara , is very interested in you and for some reason high king erich .
why i dont know but thats the main reason why i felt i couldnt trust you , id never heard of anyone the hand was interested in not ending up dead .
except for me and trunk , i suppose .
i didnt know the full extent of who was behind this and i wasnt willing to risk trunk anymore than i already had .
i owe him my life .
hes my friend .
so thats it .
somehow i have to get trunk back to saxenburg , get the information i have back to lord nexus and , nikolai paused for a rueful chuckle , keep an eye on you slade .
nikolai had barely finished speaking when tares began to laugh , a deep full laugh that was completely unlike his normally serious demeanor .
i believed you necromancer , you had me completely fooled , tares could barely speak over his laughing .
i assume you mean about the ring ?
nikolai asked , continuing when tares nodded , the minotaur unable to speak for his laughter , yeah , ive never actually spoken to lord michael personally and i had no idea whether or not theyd send anyone to look for me and trunk .
i did think that if the knights sent anyone it would likely be you but mostly because a minotaur can pass pretty much unnoticed either in the badlands or here in the islands .
i needed your help , tares , because you were the only person i felt fairly certain about , so i lied .
that would always be your way would it not , nikolai ?
tares asked kindly , it would not occur to you to simply ask for my help .
would it have occurred to you if our positions were revered , tares ?
i do not know , tares answered thoughtfully , but we must all learn to try if what you say is true .
it is .
nikolai said simply .
oh , and again , wulfstan cut in sarcastically , were all just supposed to take your word for it because you say so .
for all we know you and this creature killed sir patrick , stole the ring and youre part of this , this , he stumbled , searching for the right words , whatever it is , if it is anything .
wulfstan hes telling the truth , lara cut in , well probably most of it anyway .
i knew he was working with patrick ages ago .
michael , sorry , she corrected herself before tares could interrupt , lord michael , spoke very highly of nikolai , he had a great deal of respect for his talent .
plus a lot of the things he was telling us about the secret army , well id heard some of that while in the hand myself .
i know that you dont like him wulfstan but i do think we can trust him .
i mean he got us this far didnt he ?
oh yes , he delivered us right into the hands of the dark ones chief lackey , wulfstan responded sulkily .
there was a pause as all eyes turned slowly to the dark skinned wizard .
i admit that i work for the dark one but i have done so , for many years now and at great personal risk to myself , as a spy .
malachi spoke with quiet dignity , i was sent here nearly twenty years ago to keep watch over the dark one and to aid the people of saxenburg wherever possible and , to the best of my ability , i have done that .
i aid anyone who needs it , but i have to do so very carefully because i am still needed here .
at least for the moment .
and let me guess you actually work for nexus too right ?
no wulfstan , i was sent here by high king erich .
slades head swung up in surprise many times as he was growing up he had heard his father speak of a secret weapon something that his father had hoped would one day help him to retake ixlan .
you , he said looking at malachi in shock , youre the secret weapon ?
i suppose you could call me that , yes .
malachi answered before telling his story .
he told the group how he had been born in kemet and raised to be a priest of thoth but had always been drawn to arcane magical power .
in his adolescence malachi had been caught experimenting with the arcane and been brought before the council of clerics for trial .
it had been malachis extreme good fortune that high king erich had been present that day .
otherwise he would have been tied and bound then left to die slowly in the vast desert sands of kemet , the typical punishment inflicted on those who practiced the arcane arts in that extremely religious land .
instead erich had pleaded with the council to exile malachi instead and allow erich to take the young man with him back to saxenburg a proposal the council had reluctantly agreed to .
erich had sponsored malachis education , sending him to the malerok republic for his formal training .
once i had finished my training i returned to king erich , ready to serve in saxenburg for the rest of my life but king erich had other plans .
it was on his instructions that i returned to the schools in malerok , where i studied with the necromancers of bhaal .
in fact , in order to maintain my disguise , i still attend the regular meetings held by the necromancers of bhaal , which is where i first met nikolai .
it was as a supposed devotee of the blood god that i was eventually handpicked by the dark one to come and work for him .
i may not like what i have to do but i do recognize the necessity .
thats why i have been with the dark one for so long and why i will stay as long as i can .
you knew about this slade ?
wulfstan turned to the young druid , unwilling to completely trust the mage .
in general yes , but not the specifics .
either way its another confirmation of nikolais story .
wulfstan snorted , shaking his head but he gave no further opposition .
watching his former friend slade reluctantly acknowledged that nikolai was correct in his assessment of wulfstan the big soldier did fear magic and all those who used it , including slade .
with a sigh slade put the problem of wulfstans prejudice to the back of his mind it was not something that could be easily resolved and certainly would not be resolved tonight .
so we now have the truth from nikolai .
we have heard malachis tale .
am i correct tares that you and lara were sent here by lord michael to find sir patrick ?
slade asked .
that is correct , although , i had little hope that we would find him alive .
however i do believe slade that it is the wish of belenus that i , at least , continue to work with you in your attempts to find high king erich .
i believed that before i learned of nikolais revelations and am even more convinced of it now .
obviously i still have a debt to sir patrick that must be discharged but it appears to me that , for the moment , we are actually all working towards the same goals , the minotaur priest had recovered his usual composure and spoke with a grave sincerity that was impressive .
as he listened to tares speak slade found that he was unconsciously nodding in agreement .
he had also felt strongly that the gods themselves desired for this group to stay together , to work together but for what reason , slade did not know .
i agree .
slade said eventually before turning to darzan , tares and lara hired you to help them ?
thats true , but im in no hurry to head back to diablis city .
im pretty sure the guards would have recognized me , which means that my name and my reputation , not to mention my life is pretty much in the balance .
i might be able to convince the dark one that i was just working a hire , its what i do , but for now id just as soon stick with you guys and do what i can to help .
i cant say that i bring a lot in the way of information to the group but im an excellent sailor , i can wield a blade and i think ive survived a pretty long time in the pirating trade , which proves ive got a few skills that might be useful .
we can certainly use your help darzan , slade answered before turning to lara , so what about you lara ?
we could certainly use your help but from what ive heard here tonight i think its likely to be fairly dangerous .
if you would prefer to leave us ill understand .
no , im not leaving , lara said , annoyed that the former prince was treating her as though she needed protection .
sometimes people forgot that she was a highly skilled assassin , even if she had sworn to no longer practice her profession .
thank you lara , slade smiled warmly at the little halfling , what about you roulibard ?
do you want to leave or would you like to stay and help us ?
im in , roulibard answered , relieved that slade was not going to press him for any information , im not sure how much help ill be but ill give it my best .
thank you .
now , the only question that remains , malachi , is why youve made preparations for us to sail somewhere other than saxenburg , which is the place we all really need to go ?
ulrichs treachery malachi did not answer immediately , reaching instead for his cup and drinking deeply .
before i answer that slade , allow me to ask you a question .
how closely have you stayed in contact with your family since leaving court ?
not terribly close , slade answered , surprised by the question , ive seen my father quite a few times , either in saxenburg or on his travels to the grove , my sister a little less frequently , ulrich probably twice in all the years since i left , my mother not at all .
i see .
on the occasions you saw your father , or when you returned home to saxenburg , did you ever discuss the political situation ?
there is no political situation in saxenburg .
my father is high king and the throne has been in our family for generations .
the people of saxenburg love my father .
im not sure i understand what it is that you are asking me , slade said , his voice rising unconsciously .
saxenburg has changed a lot since you left , slade , wulfstan interrupted .
what do you mean ?
slade knew he sounded defensive but he could not help himself , he was feeling defensive .
slade knew his decision to leave had hurt his father deeply .
occasionally he had even wondered if he had made the right decision .
now it seemed to slade that he was being told that , in fact , he had not made the right choice in leaving .
just that , wulfstan said quietly , with none of his usual arrogance , the people still love king erich , and they love the princess ursula .
but queen urda has been failing in health for some time and your brother is unbearably arrogant .
he often proposes all manner of changes even though none of them would be in saxenburgs best interests .
there is a growing feeling among the people that if ulrich becomes high king it will be the worst possible thing that could happen to saxenburg .
yet with you gone and princess ursula unable to inherit the throne in her own right , ulrich is the only one who can succeed king erich .
saxenburg is not as secure as it used to be , slade , thats all im saying .
king erich knew that , but he didnt want to pressure you into returning .
i dont know for sure obviously but i think one of the reasons king erich has travelled so much these past two years has simply been to give ulrich some time and experience at ruling , under your mothers guidance , in the hopes that he will grow into being a better king .
if that is the case , malachi said , then it has not worked .
i happen to know that the dark one is attending a grand coronation of ulrich , the new high king of saxenburg in less than a ten day .
but my father is not dead !
slade cried out , shocked and hurt by wulfstans revelations and malachis pronouncement .
perhaps .
perhaps not .
at this point in time i do not believe that it matters .
your brother has assumed the throne and whether it was done legally or illegally it is still done .
that he has invited the dark one , something your father would never have countenanced , and has also invited shallendara as the guest of honor , does not bode well for your being able to even get into saxenburg .
your brother , slade , has allied himself with those we must now consider our enemies .
if he has , and im only saying if , slade responded angrily , then i believe he has done so out of misguided motives , he can not be aware of the plans of this shallendara or the dark one .
slade , i realize this must be difficult for you but think on this malachi said , your brother will be crowned high king in seven days .
do you know what day that is ?
seven days from now ?
slade was frowning as he searched his memory for why that seemed so familiar , the day of victorious ascent .
seven days from the sun ascension festival comes the day of victorious ascent , slade finished in a whisper as he remember that the day of victorious ascent was yet another festival day of vadatajs , i see .
in truth slade felt slightly sick .
the thought that his brother , his flesh and blood , could be willingly involved with shallendara and her unclean brand of magic disgusted him .
yet , the evidence appeared clear and slade remembered that ulrich had always been ambitious .
ambitious enough , slade admitted , that ulrich would ally himself with shallendara if he believed it would give him greater power .
deep in his heart slade hoped that ulrich 's only crime was one of misplaced ambition rather than knowingly entering into an unholy relationship with the elven witch .
regardless slade was determined that one way or another he would have to return home to find out for himself .
i appreciate that you are trying to aid us malachi but i must return to saxenburg .
even if ulrich has done these things i must see him , speak to him , seeing malachi about to interrupt slade held up one hand , i must do this .
hes my brother .
very well , i can see that nothing i say will change your mind but there is one more thing you all need to know before you leave here .
before i left the hidden palace tonight i received confirmation from a very reliable source that the dark one has planted a spy within your group , and in fact , the spy has managed to communicate with the dark one at least once since joining you .
a spy ?
but how would he have even known slade trailed off , the implications were astounding .
apart from wulfstan all these people were strangers to slade until today .
how could anyone , even the dark one have known in advance the chain of circumstance that would bring this group together ?
there is little the dark one does not know .
now he also has the aid of shallendara .
the elven witch truly does seem to possess the power to read minds , as well as being able to see the future and control peoples thoughts and emotions .
i confess freely , it frightens me , malachi said quietly , i know of no way , magically or otherwise , that can deflect the tremendous mental powers that the elven witch undoubtedly possesses .
obviously she knew enough to convince the dark one to plant a spy within your ranks , and as i say i also know beyond doubt that whoever the spy is , they attempted to communicate with the dark one .
attempted ?
darzan asked quickly , what do you mean attempted ?
my friend within the palace was able to intercept the message before it reached the dark one .
as a result all that he currently knows is that nikolai and sir patrick are together once again .
for whatever reasons the dark one , and shallendara , views the two of them being together as a significant threat to their plans .
the rest of the information was , thankfully , ignored in the heat of the dark ones anger over that revelation .
i was able to destroy the parchment myself .
was the information important ?
slade asked when it became obvious that the dark skilled wizard would not continue .
im not sure but it may have been .
i hope you will understand if i choose not to reveal any more than that .
i understand , slade began , but it does not make things very easy for us .
we have to work together .
already we have vast differences of personality , opinion , very little trust and now we are told that one of us is a spy .
are you absolutely certain malachi ?
unfortunately yes .
i wish i could ease your burden , for i have a strong feeling , coming from thoth i am certain , that this group has an important role to play in the events to come and , as you said , working together is critical .
but one of you is not what they seem to be .
furthermore i will offer this warning the dark one employs only the very best .
slade raised his eyebrows and looked around the table only to see each of the others doing the exact same thing .
slade knew that every one of them , except for the spy of course , would be looking at the others , trying to determine who among them was not what they seemed , who was a spy .
without a word being spoken slade knew it was limited to only a few people .
slade felt fairly certain of nikolai , trunk , tares and lara .
he was less sure of wulfstan , his fathers bodyguard , or roulibard of whom they knew virtually nothing , or even the beautiful darzan .
any one of them could have been the spy .
for that matter given how long malachi had served the dark one as a spy for his father , slade thought , how could he even eliminate tares or lara ?
how ironic that the only ones slade felt he could be completely certain of were the monstrous trunk and the necromancer of bhaal .
they all sat there in silence for a long moment , until slade finally pushed himself away from the table and stood , slightly unsteadily from the weight of his exhaustion .
theres little point in staying up any longer , or in dwelling on what we can not change at the moment .
until i have proof , one way or the other , i intend to treat each and every one of you as a friend and ally .
id ask you to do the same with each other , but i realize thats probably impossible for some of you .
for now , lets just try to work together .
you said before there were beds upstairs malachi ?
slade asked turning to the dark skinned mage who nodded in reply , then im going to try and get some sleep .
as i understand it we have only a few hours before the ship will be ready to leave .
without another word slade turned and walked away , hearing the others doing the same behind him .
as he walked up the shabby stairs slades heart felt heavy , how was it possible that he had gotten himself caught up in this mess ?
the very reason he had left court in the first place was because he had no interest in politics , intrigue and scheming .
yet here he was surrounded by those very things .
there was an old kemet proverb that stated if a man tries to run from himself he will meet himself coming , something slade had never understood before this day .
slade lay on the lumpy straw mattress without even bothering to take off his boots and said a quick prayer to suelta before falling into a restless sleep .
the dreamer this far below ground there was no natural light , no warmth , no sound .
the subterranean cell was tiny , containing only a rough stone bench that served as a cold , hard bed and in the corner a large , milky crystal standing nearly five feet tall .
lying on the stone bed was a man , ordinarily a ruggedly handsome man but now his face was flushed with fever and his once muscular frame was wasted from near starvation .
there was only one door into the cell a door used very , very infrequently .
as the man lay tossing in fevered sleep the door opened silently admitting two people , making the tiny cell even more crowded .
how long has he been feverish ?
the womans voice retained some of the musical lilt common to the elvish people but long years immersed in dark and unclean things had robbed shallendaras voice , as it had her looks , of most of their beauty .
several ten days my lady , the healers have had no effect , answered the strange creature by her side .
the creature was a thing of nightmares , tall and thin with an overlarge round head , marked by tentacles resembling the legs of an octopus growing out of it .
it had enormous oval eyes of jet black surrounded by white , without any visible pupils and a gaping maw for a mouth .
whether it was male or female was impossible to tell .
it wore elaborate , heavily embroidered wizards robes and multi colored crystals adorned its long thin fingers .
this is unacceptable .
he is unable to answer any of my questions while his brain is addled with fever , shallendara did not raise her voice yet her anger was unmistakable .
true , the creature replied , showing no signs of fear at shallendaras displeasure .
i wonder .
if i did not know better i would say that this illness has been deliberately sent to thwart me .
my lady , surely you know such is impossible .
is it ?
the gods themselves would surely stop me if they could , and by now they must have realized what it is that i seek .
and if they have ?
the creature , still watching the fevered man , shrugged in apparent indifference .
just because we are no longer dependant upon the gods does not mean that we should underestimate their power .
until i have the answers i seek the gods have powers at their disposal i do not possess .
the creature did not answer .
it merely moved past the elven witch towards the man lying on the stone pallet .
gently laying one long finger on the mans perspiring brow the creature tilted its ungainly head to one side , as if listening to a distant conversation .
he dreams of his son , the creature said eventually .
his son who now sides with us .
his son who believes , in his complete and utter arrogance that i will hand him the keys to conquer the kingdoms .
arrogant and ambitious men are always easy to manipulate , shallendara said with a harsh laugh .
not ulrich .
his other son , the one called slade .
he is of no consequence , shallendara said with a dismissive shrug , if he is not already dead then he certainly soon will be .
i am sure that the dark one can be relied upon in that small matter .
then i am afraid i can tell you nothing else my lady .
the fever is too great .
then send for more healers , shallendara said after a long pause , i must have the information and only he possesses it .
are you certain my lady ?
there are no others ?
none .
he holds one part of the puzzle .
the great dragon , if i can find whoever that is , holds the other .
the texts are absolutely certain on that point .
but there is little to be gained in my seeking out the dragon clans until i have the information erich possesses , i have to be able to negotiate from a position of strength .
he must be cured of this fever .
i shall do what i can my lady , the creature answered , but i believe that to cure him we may have to send for a cleric .
very well .
just make sure he is lucid enough to be questioned and soon , in the meantime keep an eye on his mind .
i want to know any unusual thoughts he may be having , shallendara answered finally before sweeping from the room .
naturally my lady , the creature said with a low sweeping bow .
before leaving the room the creature again laid a finger on erichs brow , pausing as images flashed into his mind from erichs feverish dreams .
again and again came the image of the young princeling turned druid , slade , yet behind him was something else , someone else .
the creature could not see clearly who else occupied high king erichs fevered thoughts but whoever it was held a position of supreme importance to the sick king .
a position , the creature knew , of even greater importance than his son slade , for erichs mind was still trying to protect the identity of this other .
as broken and damaged as erichs mind undoubtedly was , nevertheless it was managing to do so .
this was something the creature found very , very curious .
the end you can contact me via email at world.of.kaynos gmail.com or via my facebook page https www.facebook.com pages tracey alley author 127959000550782 id love to hear from you .
tracey alley the dangerous adventures of jeep muldoon !
by matt musson smashwords edition published by matt musson on smashwords the dangerous adventures of jeep muldoon !
the boy who finds things reveals his most dangerous adventures ever .
but , will they be too dangerous to handle ?
copyright 2009 , 2011 , 2012 by matt musson smashwords edition license notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with .
thank you for respecting the author 's work .
table of contents forward by jeep muldoon the secret of the civil war gold !
the adventure of the rocket bike !
santa clause comes to granite falls we capture the wampus cat !
rescue at pickle curve about the author forward by jeep muldoon first of all , if you know my mom , please do not tell her about this book .
especially do not tell her the title of this book .
i swear that if mom knew i was having dangerous adventures , she would give birth to live kittens !
and , if your mom knows my mom , do not tell your mom about this book either , because you know how moms talk .
and , if you know my little sister jenny , do not tell her about this book under any circumstances !
lets face it , shes a little sister .
she would rather tell on me than breath .
and , then i would probably get grounded for life and never have another adventure ever .
of course , feel free to talk to grandpa gus about these adventures .
and , you can discuss it with anyone in the ranger club .
they were part of there .
if i get in trouble , they get in trouble too .
so , just as a rule of thumb , think twice when you talk about this book with anyone who has already graduated from high school , and things should be just fine .
however , if you do tell anyone else about this book , maybe you should just give me one of those fake names so no one knows it is really me .
call me terrance hackensack or maybe tumbler barstow .
in fact , call me whatever you like .
just do not call me jeep muldoon !
and of course , i need to warn you about how you should not ever , ever , ever try these dangerous adventures for yourself .
so , here goes .
do not try this at home .
do not fire a civil war cannon .
do not build and pilot your own rocket bike .
do not fly cluster balloons into the stratosphere .
and do not ever under any circumstances ever face down the legendary wampus cat !
still , if you do choose to ignore my advice and have dangerous adventures of your very own , here is one last piece of advice do not tell your mother about your adventures either !
the secret of the civil war gold every year on the third weekend in october , civil war re enactors come from all over the state to stage a mock battle in granite falls that professional historians have described as the least decisive confrontation of 1863 .
however , both the north and the south claimed victory in the battle for our little town , so both re enacting sides get to win at granite falls .
plus , it is always one of the most beautiful fall weekends of the year and it is a great time to be outside re fighting the war of northern aggression .
so , with booming cannons and rifles thundering , and with bugles sounding charges for horse mounted cavalry , you can bet that every member of the granite falls rangers spends that october weekend in the thick of battle .
the middle schoolers of granite falls look at the annual re enactment as a great opportunity to play soldier with hundreds of big kids .
what makes it even better is that anybody participating gets out of school on friday .
so , not only do we get to play soldier all day in our blue and grey uniforms , we get out of our math and english classes to do it !
if you have never heard of the battle of granite falls and there is really no reason that you would have it was a two day engagement that began on saturday october 17 , 1863 .
the engagement began when union forces under col. robert wheeler intercepted confederate forces under col. hampton wade at the bridge over deep gap creek .
outnumbered , the yankee soldiers set fire to the bridge and returned to granite falls for artillery support .
meanwhile , the confederate cavalry made a surprise crossing five miles west and captured an unrelated union army supply train , carrying the sum total of all the medicinal alcohol ordered by union quartermasters for the winter of 1863 .
as night fell , col. wheelers yankee artillery launched an extended bombardment , pounding what they believed was the confederate position .
however , the rebels had pulled back out of range and spent the evening destroying the captured union alcohol , one stiff drink at a time .
when dawn broke on sunday morning , wheeler observed bodies covering the confederate camp ground like leaves following an october windstorm .
the elated union forces returned to granite falls to stage a tremendous victory celebration and parade .
as the day wore on , the confederate soldiers gradually sobered up and returned to life .
colonel wade , sporting a terrible hangover , ordered his troops to form up and march southward as quietly as possible .
ultimately , no one was killed in the battle of granite falls .
and , both sides celebrated wildly , returning home as victors .
so , every year re enactors return to granite falls to reenact this indecisive but enjoyable civil war engagement .
the rangers always compete on the same team even in war .
we feel that since we are all members of the same club it would not be right for us to fight against each other .
so every year we alternate between wearing the blue and the gray .
last year we all served with the confederacy and this year we were all fighting to preserve the union .
as re enactors , we show no favoritism to either cause .
but , as rangers , we are always loyal to each other .
on thursday afternoon before the start of the big three day battle weekend , we requested our assignments for the upcoming engagement and most of us got what we applied for .
bogdon was chosen as a surgeons assistant , using authentic civil war techniques to treat the sprains and cuts in this non lethal re enaction .
thor was an ammunition bearer , running up and down the lines of riflemen handing out shot and powder .
shad and freddie , who have a year and half of middle school band , were chosen to serve in the drum and bugle corp. and , since charlies father and grandfather were serving as confederate cavalry they brought an extra horse for charlie , who was portraying a union horseback messenger .
unfortunately , toby and i were assigned to serve as crew members for the union artillery forces .
i guess most people would think that playing with the cannons would be a great job for two middle school boys .
but the truth is if you are kid in the artillery , you dont get to do anything fun .
you dont get to load the cannon .
you dont get to aim the cannon .
and , you certainly dont get shoot the cannon !
the commander of the reenactment artillery is major oliver tolley is so afraid one of us kids is going to get hurt , that we are forced to take our position 10 paces rear , whenever the cannon are fired .
you may know major tolley better as ollie tolley of tolleys tree service .
but , the thing you probably did not know is that ollie tolley gets to be the artillery major simply because he owns that tree service .
or , more specifically , ollie tolley owns a really nice hydraulic crane on the back of a truck that he uses in his tree service .
when you are working with the civil war cannon it sure is nice to have a crane to lift the cannon on and off of the trailers and to occasionally lift the cannon barrels from the gun carriages if you need to repair something .
so , because mr. tolley owns a crane he gets to be the major .
and , at 10 paces rear , we kids get to be spectators in itchy blue wool coats .
anyway , it was lunchtime on friday and we had been practicing our battle maneuvers all morning .
it was a beautiful indian summer day and much too warm to be wearing wool .
we were hot and hungry , so the whole club settled into a nice shady spot on a stacked stone wall under a thick set of longleaf pines .
and after all that marching and maneuvering , we were ready to eat the leather souls right off our civil war shoes .
but , luckily something much better was coming down the path .
a mule cart mobile field kitchen was approaching our position , bringing a lunch that prepared by the ladies auxiliary of the first apple church of granite falls .
actually the first apple is short for the first apostolic church of the chosen and redeemed .
the apple is the oldest and most respected black church in the entire county .
and , as long as i can remember , miss hattie may had been the president of the ladies auxiliary of the first apple , a group of women that cooks food so good that is probably the real reason why re enactors come back to granite falls year after year .
whats for lunch , miss hattie ?
charlie called out to the approaching wagon .
miss hattie was driving the team wearing a dark blue period dress with a red and white gingham shawl .
she is a slender lady with large hands and nimble fingers .
i have no idea how old she is .
she has not seemed to age as long as i have known her .
she has the same short grey hair , the same wrinkled brow and that same overwhelming friendly smile .
she called out to us as she pulled back on the reigns , halting the team .
woo wee , you boys are lucky today .
we have pan fried chicken and biscuits .
theres country ham and green beans .
of course , we have sweet potato pie and pecan cookies .
plus , theres fruit for quick energy and plenty of fresh sweet tea and ice cold lemonade to wash it down .
we hurried over to the wagon and it sure didnt take us long to load up our splatter ware tin plates with enough hearty rations to fill up even a growing boys hollow leg .
you children are going to blow away if you dont eat no more than that , miss hattie observed .
and then she threw an extra biscuit or chicken leg on top of every plate she could reach .
we presented miss hattie with our prepaid meal tickets and the mule cart ladies got back on their wagon to move over to the next hungry group .
i declare miss hattie your food gets better every year , charlie called out as he dug into a chicken leg .
well , mr. charlie , the sweet old woman replied , the apple folks have been havin some hard times this last year .
there are folks out of work or took sick with one thing or another .
but , praise god above , we can still cook and we are trustin in the lords plan .
so , you boys enjoy your lunch .
we have plenty more souls to feed .
i sat on that shaded stone wall devouring a drumstick that tasted like it had just been sent down from heaven and i watched the apple ladies roll off in their creaky old wagon .
and , i understood why so many men and boys had volunteered to wear the union blue 150 years earlier .
it did not take us long to work our way through the meal at least to the point where we were ready for some fun with our food .
shad finished crunching his way through a nice sized red delicious apple .
and , now he cocked his arm back ready to launch what was left .
baltimore , said shad .
apple core , cackled freddie .
whos your friend ?
shad questioned .
freddie looked around for a minute , then pointed out a victim , charlie !
with his target identified , shad launched the apple core as hard as he could .
the missile connected with charlie right above the blue wool shirt pocket and apple shrapnel exploded all over his uniform .
charlie lurched , managing to keep a firm grip on his lunch plate but as he jumped backwards , he collided with a full cup of lemonade , and the cold sweet liquid poured out of the container and down into the open top of his leather dispatch case .
you spazz !
shouted an annoyed charlie sinclair , as he scrambled to put down his lunch plate and right the overturned cup .
you guys are so gay !
now , normally charlie would have retaliated with a frog to the arm or one of his patented indian burns .
but , in this situation was too busy trying to save his civil war paperwork .
theres some important stuff in here , he explained as he picked up the dispatch case and turned it upside down , attempting to shake out the pink lemonade that had flooded the case .
mr. burns gave me a genuine original civil war dispatch to carry so i could be more authentic .
and you weenies got it all wet .
mr. burns is gon na have a cow !
realizing that maybe our fun had gotten out of hand , we all jumped down to help charlie salvage his papers .
as he slid them out of the case piece by piece and we separated them and laid them out on the stone wall to dry .
we weighted them down with a couple of pebbles to keep them from blowing away .
was it ottway or hamish that gave you these papers ?
i asked .
it was ottway , charlie replied , arranging the case upside down on the wall so the last of the lemonade could tickle out .
ottway is leading the union this year .
hamish is commanding the rebels .
the brothers otway and hamish burns are generally recognized as experts in the 1863 battle of granite falls .
but , instead of their love for the engagement bringing them together , these annual reenactments have driven the brothers apart for as long as anyone can remember .
you see , the burns brothers suffer from the worst kind of sibling rivalry and will not under any circumstances take orders from each other .
so , each year one burns commands the confederate re enactors while the union forces are lead by the other burns .
reenacting divides the burns family in much the same way that the original war set brother against brother .
and , of course both brothers are constantly attempting to outshine each other when it comes to historical authenticity and realism .
it was not surprising that one of them provided charlie with actual civil war documents to carry .
hey charlie , what is this ?
bogdon asked as he attempted to dry one of the dispatch papers with a napkin .
theres something written on the back of this dispatch .
bog held up the paper , and sure enough there was an odd message inscribed on the back of the document .
where the lemonade soaked through the document , the writing was visible .
but , it seemed to disappear when it reached a patch where the paper was still dry .
i think this is invisible ink , bog observed holding the document up in the air and studying how the suns rays shown through the antique paper .
the acid in the lemon juice is making it appear .
well gosh , said toby .
splash the rest of the document down with lemonade and lets see what it says .
maybe its important .
as you could imagine , charlie was dead set against us deliberately rewetting the dispatch with more lemonade .
but , a couple of us held him down and shad sat on his back , while bogdon removed a piece of cotton bandage from his medical pack and dipped it in some of the pink liquid .
slowly bogdon wiped the rest of the paper down with the drink and he read the results aloud to the gathering .
to the honorable a. r. lawton , quartermaster general of the confederate states of america .
dear sir , i have attempted without success to slip through the yankee lines and deliver the remaining gold from the charlotte mint to blockade runners in albemarle sound .
however , with two broken wagon wheels and the enemy close at our heels , we have been forced to hide the gold in the first baptist church of granite falls .
our hope is to return and retrieve the treasure at some future point .
in the meantime , we will march north to rendezvous with general picketts division and join him in the upcoming attack into pennsylvania .
as always , your humble servant major ashley booth , csa may 22nd , 1863 .
even as bogdon repeated the message , the sun and a gentle breeze were drying out the dispatch .
within seconds the ink disappeared again , leaving only a blank paper and an astonished look on our faces .
we stared into each others blank expressions for a second , before there was an outburst .
gold !
freddie yelped , hopping down from his perch on the old stone wall .
confederate gold in granite falls !
lets go find it right now .
i always wanted to be a zillionaire and this could be our big chance .
hold your horses freddie , cautioned thor , always the voice of reason .
im sure the soldiers came back and got it 150 years ago .
that gold is probably long gone by now .
i wouldnt be so confident , corrected toby .
if the confederates caught up with general pickett , they may have participated in his disastrous charge a month later at gettysburg .
they may not have lived to return to granite falls .
is that true , shad ?
asked the anxious freddie .
whats the scoop on pickets charge ?
our big friend shad thought for a minute before replying .
then , with his perfect recall , he started replaying some civil war documentary .
pickett 's charge was a disastrous infantry assault ordered by general robert e. lee against general george meades union positions upon cemetery ridge , on july 3 , 1863 .
it was the bloodiest single military attack in american history .
it cut down the flower of the confederacy 's officer corps in the most important theatre of battle in the war .
lee feared a union counteroffensive and tried to strengthen his center .
when lee told pickett to rally his division for the defense , pickett allegedly replied , general lee , i have no division . ''
toby spoke up , so , if major booth did fight with pickett , he probably never made it back to granite falls for the gold .
yeah , but somebody is bound to have survived , thor observed .
maybe so , toby agreed .
but think about it .
you would not have told everyone in your command where the gold was stashed .
it would only take a couple of men to bury it .
of course , when this document was delivered to the quartermaster general his men would have retrieved the gold .
so , its unlikely that there would be any treasure left .
thats true , said charlie .
only this document was never delivered .
mr. burns said that the dispatch case and its contents had been recovered from the body of a messenger who had been shot dead in the field .
there is a chance the secret of the hidden gold may have died with him ?
at that point we were all ready to head for the first baptist church right then and there .
but , we had a battle to practice for .
and all seven of us running out in the middle of the exercise would have attracted a lot of attention .
not to mention , our teachers would have given us all fs for lack of participation .
so , the rest of the afternoon dragged by as toby and i stood 10 paces to the rear of ollie tolleys cannons .
the loud speaker alternately played the theme from glory and the ballad of the green berets .
we sweated in our wool uniforms .
we brushed away flies .
and , we listened as two high school aged artillerymen argued on and on about how the civil war would have been different if the confederacy had tactical air support .
at 4 oclock on the dot , company a mounted up on our bicycles and left the battlefield .
heading directly for down town granite falls , we made record time and were wheeling up in front of the church as the clock across the street in front the bunker like bank of granite changed to 4 07 .
now , the first baptist church of granite falls is also built like a bunker .
it is an imposing structure of local pink granite falls granite and the boxy square building is set up on a manmade hill that adds to its commanding presence .
skinny stained glass windows , primarily deep blues , reds and purples , are interspersed along the sides of the building .
and , there is a massive steeple in the front that is probably the tallest spot in town .
double steel doors guard the front of the building .
over the top of doors is a notice chiseled into solid rock abandon all sin , yee who enter here okay jeep , freddie encouraged .
find that gold !
now , that is the kind of treatment that gets me steamed up .
just because i was born with the psychic ability to find things , the guys sometimes act like i am a treasure sniffing blood hound .
and , i decided right then and there to stand up for myself .
freddie , i lectured .
you know we have talked about this many times .
i get offended when you order me around like a trained dog .
i dont know if my reprimand made any difference but i could tell that at least i frustrated the little guy by the way he exhaled sharply and rolled his eyes .
okay jeep , freddie responded and followed with an overly dramatic statement .
i am profoundly sorry if i have offended you .
i realize that you are not a dog but a person who was born with the ability to find things .
and , i know that you worked with your grandpa gus for years to cultivate and sharpen your locating gift .
so , please , i am begging your forgiveness .
please overlook my poor manners .
and , please use your unique skill to search these premises for gold .
there , said freddie .
are you happy , now ?
yes , i conceded .
i hate to be a stickler .
but , all i want is the respect that is my proper due .
great , replied freddie .
then , find the gold and ill give you a milk bone !
of course , i frogged freddie a solid shot to his right shoulder .
but , i dont think it had much of an impact .
freddie is the kind of a guy who would gladly trade a frog in the arm for a good laugh any day .
anyway , i could not change freddie dunkleberger .
so , i decided to ignore him .
and , since one thing i can do well is find lost stuff , i began to invoke my gift by closing my eyes and concentrating .
breathing quietly , i did my best to listen for the distinctive sound of gold coming from the church ground .
then , slowly i began to circle the building .
whenever one of the guys started to interrupt , i put up my hand for the silence i needed to be at my best .
and , listening for the a 24 karat serenade , i walked across the front of the building .
then , i moved along the right side .
concentrating ever harder i paced along the back of the church .
then , finally , i moved deliberately up left side of the building and stopped in front of my fellow club members .
nope , i announced to the anxious faces .
its clean .
theres no gold here .
i cant hear anything that even sounds like gold .
are you sure ?
freddie pleaded .
you only went around once .
maybe you missed it .
go around again and maybe youll pick up something .
or , shad chimed in , maybe the gold is in lead boxes like kryptonite .
and , the treasure rays arent getting through to you .
that might be a possibility , i agreed , but then took the opportunity to roll my own eyes and added , but only if lex luthor was treasurer of the confederacy .
i hated to burst their bubble but there was no gold here .
im sorry guys .
its just not here .
someone must have dug it up a long time ago .
are you not getting gold sounds at all ?
toby asked .
maybe you are not tuned in on the correct gold wavelength ?
actually , i am picking up gold .
i can hear the sound of the gold leaf on the steeple of the first apple when i walk around back .
and , standing here in front i can get some gold tones from tuderburgs jewelry across the street .
im just not finding anything here on the church property .
it was not what the guys wanted to hear .
but , i could not conjure gold out of thin air just to make them happy .
plus , i was disappointed myself .
i wanted to find gold just as badly as they did .
so , downhearted , we began mounting up on our bicycles for a sad ride home , when bogdon peabody made a discovery .
wait , i found something !
bogdon announced .
is it gold ?
freddie asked hopefully .
no , its the church cornerstone .
it says 1958 !
it was clear to everyone that we were barking up the wrong tree .
this was the first baptist church of granite falls .
but , it had to be a different church from the one the confederates hid all that gold in .
this church was not built until over ninety years after the fact .
so , now confused and disappointed , we mounted up and rode home .
the next day broke bright and cool , and we were back at the battlefield by 10 am .
the reenactment started out okay .
from our artillery position we had a pretty good vantage point to watch the union advance to deep gap creek .
the attack culminated with a tremendous explosion that splintered the wooden footbridge into a million pieces .
the explosion may not have been historically accurate but it sure made for an exciting finish .
after the attack we broke for lunch again and by that time toby and i really needed that break .
our two high school crewmates were now arguing about how different the civil war would have ended if the confederacy had formed an alliance with the klingon empire .
and , the loud speaker kept playing the same music over and over the themes from gone with the wind and the great escape .
toby and i felt like we needed our own escape .
i had not had much dinner the night before .
i was excited and then disappointed about the confederate gold .
so , by late morning i was ready to eat my fist .
i know i was all smiles when that mule wagon pulling the first apple ladies come rolling up .
todays menu included was chicken stew , fried catfish with hushpuppies , fresh baked bread , real churned butter and homemade peach preserves .
yum !
a fella could get use to this .
miss hattie was there making sure us boys had plenty to eat and drink .
once we were served they started to move on .
we had to remind them to take our meal tickets .
then , as miss hattie was putting the slips into the old cigar box the first apple ladies were using for keeping the tickets , i had a thought .
miss hattie , i said .
do you remember when they built the first baptist church of granite falls ?
i sure do , child .
in fact , i had three older brothers that hauled stone for that building .
and , momma was part of the cleaning crew that dusted and waxed the floor before the dedication service .
my , my , child that floor shined like a mirror .
it just made you feel like you were in the house of the lord .
maam , what happened to the old first baptist church ?
did they tear it down ?
no , child .
no , indeed .
those good folks could not bear the thought of tearing it down .
so , the sold it instead .
well , who did they sell it to , miss hattie ?
why to us , of course .
its now the first apple .
i looked at the guys and they looked at me .
and , we just shook our heads .
how could seven seventh grade boys be so completely clueless ?
as soon as the wagon moved on and we were alone , charlie spoke up .
well you guys know this is just like that edgar allan poe story we read last month in english class , the purloined letter .
i remember that one , thor explained .
this guy stole a letter and then hid it on his desk with a bunch of other letters so no one noticed it there in plain sight .
thats right , agreed charlie .
he hid it right out in the open .
no one noticed it because it was what they expected to see .
so , thats exactly what those rebels did in granite falls .
charlie paused for effect .
you know where that gold is , dont you ?
yeah , said shad .
its buried under the first apple .
no , goofball .
its not underneath the church .
its on top !
the rebels made the gold into a steeple and put it on top of the church .
then , they told everyone it was gold leaf and the whole town has been ignoring it for over a hundred and fifty years .
its ingenious , said bogdon .
inspired , added toby .
what do we do now ?
asked shad .
i mean , how do we get up to that steeple and find out if we are right ?
we all thought hard for a moment .
then the answer hit me , so i addressed the guys , i know someone who has a crane .
ollie tolley was just finishing his deployment of the yankee cannon .
they were all set up for the shelling that would begin at sundown .
and , major tolley was hot and dirty and ready for lunch , when the seven of us appeared with a wild story about confederate gold on a church steeple in granite falls .
as you can imagine he was not that receptive at first .
but , ill give him this .
he found a spot in the shade and sipped on a cold can of pepsi and listened to what we had to say .
after he cooled off a little , mr. tolley began to show some interest .
finally , when bogdon performed his lemonade trick on charlies dispatch and the writing appeared , that did the trick .
ollie tolley chugged the last of his pepsi , crushed the can in his hand and said , lets go see .
mr. tolley got behind the wheel of his flat bed truck with the crane mounted behind the cab .
he did not even stop to unload a 3 inch parrot gun that was tied down on the back .
we hopped on our bikes and took off after him , bound for the first apple .
the first apostolic church of the chosen and redeemed is two blocks back from the first baptist church on main street .
but , those two blocks make a world of difference .
while first baptist is in the center of town , first apple has the feel of a country church .
it is small by comparison to its successor and the little wooden structure is in perfect condition .
there is no rotten wood and everything is freshly painted .
the grass lawn is manicured .
even the bean field that stretches off on the east side seems particularly well cared for .
as soon as we pulled up beside the church , mr. tolley got out and hooked a stand in basket onto the edge of the hydraulic crane .
he told freddie to climb on in .
almost before freddie was set , mr. tolley was at the controls lifting him up to the steeple .
how do i tell if its the gold ?
freddie asked as he was telescoped upward .
toby answered , just tap on side with your finger .
if its gold leaf over wood itll sound just like wood .
if its solid gold , it should give a thunk .
mr. tolley got freddie into position .
freddie put his ear against the steeple and tapped .
down on the ground we held our breath .
i think it thunked , said freddie .
what do you mean you think it thunked ?
demanded an exasperated ollie tolley .
did it thunk or not ?
freddie rapped it again .
it thunked , he said .
its gold .
on the ground , we let out a cheer .
we had done it .
we had found the confederate gold that had been hidden since the civil war .
mr. tolley started retracting the crane and brought freddie back down to earth .
what do we do now ?
asked shad .
do we call 911 and say we found civil war gold ?
no !
mr. tolley almost shouted .
no cops , he ordered .
then , he added more calmly , first we need to tell the church .
its their steeple .
its their gold .
they should be the first ones to know .
that seemed reasonable to us .
im sure they can put all that gold to good use , bogdon added .
mr. tolley nodded before suggesting , i tell you what .
ill stay here and watch the steeple and you guys go get the first apple ladies .
do you want some of us to stay here with you ?
charlie offered .
no .
thats okay .
ill be fine by myself .
i may even go up in the bucket and take a look .
ive never seen that kind of gold before .
we did not waste any time as we flew back to the battlefield on our huffy bmxs , still sporting union blues .
we looked like some weird cavalry of civil war mountain bikers .
when we found the first apple ladies they had just finished serving lunch and had their mule cart headed for home .
they were moving awfully slow .
they were probably exhausted from cooking half the night and serving food most all day .
but , when we told them about their golden steeple , they seemed to get a second wind .
miss hattie stood up on the front of her cart and addressed her steed , brother mule .
its time for us to be about the lords work .
i know you have carried a heavy burden this day .
but , a steeple made of gold and a sack of tasty carrots await us back at the first apple .
so step lively .
your orange reward is at hand .
she shook the reins and the wagon shot out faster than i ever thought it could move .
i think they might have lost some pots and pans along the way .
but , miss hattie was determined to get back to the church and see that steeple for herself .
we reached the first apple in record time way before ollie tolley expected us .
in fact , we got their just in time to catch him driving off in his crane truck with the golden steeple sitting on the flat bed .
it took us a second to realize what was going on .
hey !
hes rippin us off !
shad finally yelled .
the crane truck was moving pretty slow as it took off across the parking lot just faster than a jog .
we had interrupted him before he had the steeple firmly lashed down so mr. tolley was forced to avoid any jarring motions that might bump it off the trailer .
when he came to the bean field , the soft rich soil slowed him down even more .
thats why he had offloaded the parrot gun .
with the additional weight of the cannon , the truck probably would have gotten bogged down in the soft earth of the bean field .
always cool in a crisis , toby reacted immediately and dialed 911 .
but , the dispatcher had trouble understanding our predicament .
a solid gold church steeple , a crane truck driving across a bean field and a lost confederate treasure are not things that get reported every day .
meanwhile , the other rangers yelling at the fleeing truck , while the first apple ladies prayed .
i just stood there trying figure out how to stop that truck .
thats when i realized that there was a cannon sitting next to me .
and , in addition to the parrot gun , mr. tolley had unloaded all kinds of extra artillery gear including powder , a ram rod and several of the demonstration cannon balls that were always passed around to the spectators .
toby , hang up and give me hand !
i ran around the cannon and began turning the barrel toward the mr. tolleys truck .
toby saw what i was doing , and he ran over and picked up the black power can .
grabbing the measuring tube , he filled it up before pouring the powder down the bun barrel .
then , i forced the power down the tube with the antique ramrod .
then , toby rolled in one of the display cannon ball .
and , once again , i rammed in rod while toby poured some powder down the fuse hole .
it was the first time we had ever loaded a cannon , but we had spent days watching it done .
now , all we needed was a little good luck !
mr. tolleys truck was slowly moving from right to left across the field of fire .
together , toby and i adjusted the cannon to lead the moving vehicle a bit .
finally , i pulled an extra long striking match from the pile of stuff thrown down beside us .
stand back !
i yelled to toby .
striking the match , i touched it to the powder .
kaabbbooommmm the sound was incredibly loud !
and , we could actually see the cannon ball rocket out of the barrel and across the bean field .
it dropped a lot faster than i expected or i would have added more elevation .
we watched the cannon ball shred a bunch of soybean plants , bounce off the plowed earth and skip back into the air .
i dont know if it was beginners luck or an answered prayer , but the cannon ball smashed dead center into the trucks left rear tire and ripped it off .
and , it did not just knock off the rubber .
that iron ball knocked the entire back axle off the truck .
one second it was a four wheeled vehicle and then suddenly there were no rear tires at all .
the two wheeled truck skidded to a stop its rear end settling into the deep red soil and soybeans .
neither that truck , nor mr. tolley , would be going anywhere anytime soon .
two days later , treasury agents from the us government showed up and they immediately took custody of the steeple , claiming the confederate gold was property of the united states under the reparations act of 1865 .
i guess thats why they call them treasury agents they take your treasure .
however , the treasury department did agree that the first apple was due a 10 finders fee .
since there was 2.3 million in gold , the church got 230,000 , plus money for a new steeple .
i was a little put out by the meager settlement , but miss hattie said she was glad to see that the u.s. government knew how to tithe .
of course , the first apple church and all the rangers got to be in all the newspapers .
and , three tv stations drove up from charlotte and interviewed everyone .
finally , as show of appreciation the first apple ladies auxiliary hosted a dinner in our honor which may have been the finest meal ever prepared in history of granite falls .
and , all the rangers ate our as much of that heavenly chow as we could stuff down our gullets .
then , everybody there made a big show of signing my cast .
you see , i was the last official casualty of the battle of granite falls .
when i fired the cannon , the left wheel recoiled back over my right foot .
it broke my ankle in three places .
so , i have to admit that ollie tolley was right about something after all .
when messing with a civil war cannon , i should have stayed in my original position , 10 paces to the rear .
the adventure of the rocket bike !
some people dont like mondays because monday is the start of the new work week .
its the farthest point from the weekend and all you have in front of you are five boring school days .
thats five days of getting up early , homework , pop quizzes , school lunches and going to bed early .
its true that here and there you may get an hour for some fun .
but for the most part , you have to save you plans and projects for the weekend .
but really , monday is not so bad .
not if you spend it looking backwards .
you can talk about what you did over the weekend and find out what your classmates were up to .
you can discuss the games from saturday and sunday and what place you favorite teams are in .
and often , you hear some juicy piece of news or scandal about some outrageous behavior or some breakups and make ups that took place during the preceding 48 hours .
so , monday is not really that bad .
its tuesday thats really boring .
by tuesday , youve already discussed everything that happened over the weekend and youve still got three more school nights and four school days to survive before the freedom of saturday and sunday .
so , its not surprising that on a tuesday afternoon we would all be sitting around the tree house wishing for an adventure .
even our wi fi connection was down so we were completely cut off from the outside world .
it seemed like our only option was to sit around and drink root beer and stare at each other .
of course , after thor and shad consumed three root beers a piece , nature took its course .
buurrrpppp !
that burp exploded from thor munsons first string linebackers frame like it was escaping from a justin beaver concert .
it was truly an impressive feat .
i believe that leaves actually fell from the tree .
but thors belching supremacy would certainly not go unchallenged .
shad was standing with a fresh root beer in one hand and rubbing his considerable belly with the other .
within a few seconds he yelled , fire in the hole .
we all took cover and shad unleashed what must have been a major part of the annual carbonation production of entire united states of america .
in fact , it may have been the first human burp to ever register on the richter scale .
wow , said freddy , brushing the dust off his shorts after pretending to have been knocked to the floor .
we have to be the luckiest guys ever !
why ?
i asked , because we were at ground zero for shads greatest burp ?
no , freddy answered .
were lucky that one came out as a burp .
knowing shad , it could just as easily have come out the other end !
after we finished laughing , i observed , if only we could harness that kind of power .
theres no telling what we could do with it .
maybe we can , replied charlie , dragging out his back pack .
charlie unzipped his bag and searched inside for a minute before he pulled out a copy of popular mechanics .
then , he thumbed through the magazine until he found what he was looking for .
finally , charlie flopped the publication down onto the footlocker in the center of the room .
there article he showed was entitled , build your own rocket bike !
it featured a picture of a helmeted rider with flames shooting out the back of his bicycle .
the caption explained that the rocket bike had a top speed in excess of 60 mph .
whats a rocket bike got to do with burping ?
i asked .
they are very similar , explained charlie .
a burp is just a jet of gas the stomach expels through the esophagus .
a rocket expels a jet of gas through its nozzle .
in the case of the burp the result is noise .
while the result of the rocket is a propulsive force called thrust .
in this rocket bike , the thrust propels the rider from 0 to 60 in about 5 seconds .
in fact , the rocket bike will beat a stock porsche in a drag race .
wow !
said freddie .
lets buy one for the club .
you cant buy em .
they are not on the market , said charlie .
you have to build them yourself .
well , then lets build one , said freddie .
can we do that ?
i looked over and saw toby had picked up the magazine and bogdon was already opening up his sketch book .
i pointed at the two inventors .
id like to see someone try and keep those two from building one .
well if they need more inspiration , said shad .
here it comes !
we held on tight as shad uncorked another monster burp that shook the entire tree .
the rangers have been building and flying rockets since before we were even a club .
charlie and his dad are especially dedicated rocketeers .
one time , mr. sinclair even modified his largest rocket , taking the parachute out and stuffing the payload container full of silver iodide crystals .
he and charlie fired the rocket into the next big black cloud that came by .
blam !
the rocket seeded the cloud with silver iodide and down came a shower .
they actually made it rain !
so anyway , we have lots of rocket experience .
but not this kind of rocket experience .
the rocket bike was a different kind of animal .
it was a hybrid rocket that burned a combination of nitrous oxide and roofing tar .
and we had to build the rocket motors ourselves .
but , working together , it was surprising how fast and easy , building the rocket bike turned out to be .
a tank of liquid nitrous oxide was bolted to the frame of a standard bike frame just in front of the seat .
we ran a hose from the tank into the combustion chamber mounted on the rear of the bike on an extension platform .
we made the combustion chamber from a large diameter steel pipe and filled it with heated roofing tar .
when the tar cooled into a solid , we drilled a small hollow tunnel through the middle of the tar for the nitrous oxide to flow through .
we finished off the rocket by fitting a nozzle to the back .
after test firing a couple of times at an old limestone quarry west of town , we decided we were ready for the first manned launch of the rocket bike .
since we did not have a test track , we decided to use falls avenue as our ground zero .
it has a long straight roadway of smooth blacktop that crosses over the granite falls on gunpowder creek .
our test pilot , charlie sinclair , looked like a nascar driver after he put on the dark blue fireproof jump suit we bought for the occasion .
in addition , toby insisted that charlie wear a special motorcycle helmet that offered 360 degrees of head protection .
at these speeds with a homemade rocket you cant be too careful .
toby and i started walking down the road just east of the municipal golf course .
we strolled over a mile down the black top , searching for debris or pot holes that might cause an accident .
after sweeping off some broken glass and removing an old piece of tire tread , we returned to the starting point and informed the assembled rangers the launch site was ready .
using a pair of climbing spikes , freddie shinnied about twenty five feet up a large tulip poplar just beside the road .
he attached a chair stand and made himself comfortable .
freddies job was to observe falls road and let us know when we had a traffic free period long enough for our test run .
he would also record the occasion using a video camera equipped with a telephoto lens .
charlie gave the rocket bike one last walk around inspection .
he lifted the back and spun the rear tire with his hand .
he checked to make sure all the rocket mountings were bolted securely .
he studied the pressure gauge on the nitrous oxide tank .
he squeezed the throttle and we could hear a shushing sound as a blast of liquid gas was released .
when charlie was satisfied everything as a ok , he mounted the vehicle and put on his helmet .
radio check , charlie said over the helmet mounted transmitter .
counting backwards from five .
five .
four .
three .
two .
one .
radio is five by five , toby responded over one of the hand held units the rest of us were carrying .
freddie ?
hows it looking up there ?
asked bogdon .
theres one old pickup heading towards town on falls avenue .
after it moves by us , i think we will have an opening , freddie replied .
all rangers stand clear of the rocket bick , bogdon announced .
we have a live fire .
repeat .
we have a live fire .
on my mark we will count down from ten .
our eyes were glued to the slowly approaching pickup .
any changes freddie ?
bogdon inquired .
no changes .
the launch site remains clear .
bogdon called to charlie , test pilot ?
are you ready ?
the test pilots ready , charlie responded .
and he gave us a thumbs up sign .
bogdon spoke again , all units .
all units .
we are in go mode for launch .
count down will begin as soon as we are clear down range .
the battered red pickup was now close enough to identify the driver .
it was old mr. polyaw from the polyaw lumber yard .
he did not seem to realize he was holding up our firing sequence .
he just smiled and waved as he slowly pulled on by .
a couple of us waived back , but bogdon was too focused to respond .
freddie , he demanded .
are we clear ?
we are clear in both directions .
good , responded bogdon .
begin rolling tape on the five count .
charlie ?
are you ready ?
ready for launch , charlie responded .
all units .
all units .
this is not a drill .
this is a live fire .
i am beginning count down .
ten nine eight seven six five tape is rolling , injected freddie .
four three two one ignition !
charlie hit the trigger button .
an electrical charge hit the igniter on a small model rocket engine in the combustion chamber and for about two seconds the model rocket engine fired , causing the roofing tar to begin burning .
the white smoke from the tiny engine soon turned into oily black smoke from the burning tar .
we could see a flame extending from the back of the chamber like a barbeque pit with too much charcoal starter .
the tar in the combustion chamber was ignited but the thrust would not come until the nitrous oxide was applied .
go for throttle up !
bogdon commanded .
roger , charlie replied .
i am throttling up !
as charlie squeezed the throttle , nitrous oxide flowed into the combustion chamber .
adding the gas caused the tar to burn a hundred times faster .
suddenly the flame coming out of the combustion chamber exploded into a jet of fire .
white smoke belched out and the bike lurched forward , while toby and shad activated their stop watches .
charlie held on for all he was worth as he accelerated down the road .
for the next few seconds he did his best to count off the miles on his speedometer .
twenty thirty forty fifty sixty miles per hour !
charlie announced triumphantly and he began his throttle down procedure .
but , even though the rocket was throttling back charlies forward motion continued to climb .
i have sixty five miles per hour and all systems are functioning normally !
at approximately eight and a half seconds into the ride two important things occurred .
the first happening we expected .
just like we planned , the rocket burned through the last of the roofing tar .
charlie released the throttle and held on while the bike coasted along at sixty seven miles per hour .
we had not planned for the second happening .
from his observation point in the tulip poplar , freddie was the first one of us to observe the white sheriffs car turning onto falls avenue from grace chapel road .
he even got some pretty good pictures of sheriff killdeer watching in astonishment as charlie passed him going the opposite direction on a bicycle doing over sixty miles per hour .
it only took a second for the sheriff to overcome his surprise and flip on his lights and siren .
he slammed on his brakes and made a quick u turn .
the sheriff pushed his pedal to the floor and took out after charlie like he was the unibomber !
seeing the sheriff in hot pursuit of charlie sinclair and our rocket bike , freddie paraphrased those immortal words of apollo 13 , bogdon , we have a problem .
for several seconds we just stood there with a blank look on our faces .
it had never occurred to us we might be violating the law by launching our rocket bike .
we were just middle schoolers testing our experiment .
like statues , we stood with our mouths hanging open until a second sheriffs car came up falls avenue from town .
its lights were flashing and its siren was on .
it looked like sheriff killdeer had called for backup .
the second car passed us at what seemed like a hundred miles an hour .
we recognized deputy burcham as he sped by .
but , suddenly , his break lights flashed on .
this second sheriffs car came to a stop a couple of blocks down the road .
and , he hung a u turn .
when he floored it and started heading our way , we realized he was coming back for us !
that finally jarred us into action .
i remember hearing a panicked voice scream run !
over the radio .
but , i dont have the faintest idea who was speaking .
at that point i was completely focused on trying to keep from being the first person in my family to ever be arrested !
we scattered !
some of us were on bicycles and some of us like me were on foot .
and without planning it , we all took off in different directions .
by the time the lawman got back to our location we were heading off into the woods on both sides of the road , where his car could not follow .
the deputy gave up on us and turned around once more .
he floored his gas pedal and shot down the road trying to catch up with the sheriff .
of course , i did not know this at the time .
i was too busy running through a pine thicket and trying not to pee in my pants .
as a matter of fact , i dont think i slowed down until i was halfway home .
we found out what the deputy sheriff did later , from freddie .
poor freddie was still stuck in the top of the tulip poplar , praying the lawmen did not look up !
for the next several hours we straggled into the tree house one by one .
we had no idea if anybody had been caught .
so , it was a huge relief when the last ranger , in this case charlie , came limping in .
he was soaking wet and his face was scratched and bleeding .
charlie explained it was not until he coasted to a stop and pulled off his helmet that he heard the sheriffs siren .
realizing he was being pursued , he pushed off the road and went careening down a small hillside and directly into blackberry thicket .
he threw himself into the thorny cover just as sheriff killdeer went shooting past .
his flight suit protected him from most of the thorns but his face looked like he had been in a cat fight .
he stashed the bike and helmet and made his way through the underbrush all the way home .
he was limping because he twisted his ankle when he tripped on a exposed huckleberry root .
but , he managed to make it back without being apprehended .
i understand the limp and the scratches , said shad .
but why are you all wet ?
well , at one point i heard a dog barking .
i was afraid they had brought in a k 9 unit to track me down .
so , i ran to the river and sloshed a couple hundred yards downstream so they would lose my scent .
that broke the tension .
we laughed at the thought of charlie splashing down the river like he escaped from a chain gang .
we also laughed at ourselves because we realized that we probably overreacted and the fbi was not going to put us on their most wanted list .
finally bogdon spoke up , well , at least the rocket bike was a success .
according to my calculations charlie went from 0 to 60 , in just 5.4 seconds .
and , he topped out at 67 miles per hour .
im glad to hear that , replied charlie .
but , i dont know how many more successes i can handle .
we laughed at charlie and at ourselves once more .
then , we agreed it was time to lay low .
so , the granite falls rangers officially shutdown the project rocket bike .
that evening after it got dark , we recovered the bike and helmet .
and , we moved those pieces , along with a half dozen extra combustion chambers already loaded with tar , to the bat cave .
standing out front of the shelter , we bled off the remaining nitrous oxide from the tank .
then , we rolled the bike inside and lowered the big sliding garage door .
with the bat cave locked up and the alarm set , we headed home on foot and spoke very little along the way .
i think we were all pretty sad about saying good bye to the rocket bike .
as the garage door came down we felt like we were closing the door on a terrific opportunity .
of all the rangers , freddie was taking the shut down particularly hard .
because of his short little legs , all of his life he had been one of the slowest kids in school .
so the rocket bike had him dreaming of a new speed record and a chance to become freddie the rocket boy .
charlie tried to brighten freddie up by offering him two votes in our next weekly ranger meeting .
but , that did not have much effect .
finally , toby tried his hand at raising our dampened spirits .
cheer up guys , toby suggested .
after all , its official now .
whats official ?
i asked .
well , from this day forward , we are officially rocket scientists , toby proclaimed .
we are bona fide , built one ourselves , rocket scientists .
that made us all stop and think .
thats true , shad agreed thoughtfully .
and you know what ?
when werner von braun was our age he was still hoeing turnips on his dads farm in wirsitz .
thats from the race for rockets a history channel production , he added .
well i think this calls for a celebration , announced charlie .
so , as president of the rangers , i move that we go down to darbys , eat all the ice cream we can stand , and charge it off to the club !
second !
shouted freddie .
shad pretended he was too surprised to second the motion , but we were pretty sure he let freddie win this one .
and smiles replaced frowns , even for slow poke freddie dunkleberger .
and , that was a red letter day in the history of the granite falls rangers .
that was the day we officially became rocket scientists and ate ice cream until we almost puked .
and , club president charlie sinclair rode his bicycle sixty seven miles per hour in a forty five mile per hour zone without going to jail .
and , we put the rocket bike safely away in mothballs .
but , even though we did not realize it at the time , events were already in motion that would lead to a return of the rocket bike .
we would soon use those extra combustion chambers we had squirreled away .
and , slow poke freddie would eventually get his chance to become freddie the rocket boy .
but , that is a story for another day .
santa clause comes to granite falls back when i was in the fifth grade , a classmate told me that boo yoder had one blue eye and one green eye .
my 10 year old companion swore up and down that he spotted the mismatched orbs while boo was driving down main street on his mint condition 1934 indian chief ' motorcycle the one with the gleaming warbonnet red and yellow paint job .
of course , i refused to believe the blue eyed green eyed story .
it 's not that i could n't accept that boo might have different colored eyes .
it 's just that i could n't believe that boo yoder was driving down main street without his ray bans on .
in my whole life , i have never met anybody that i trusted who recalls ever seeing boo yoder barefaced .
in day or night or wind , rain and snow , those extra dark sunglasses are as much a part of the 6'2 granite falls native as his ripped muscles , his chiseled jaw and his razor edged flat top haircut .
did i mention that boo yoder looks like one of those buff pilots from that volleyball scene in top gun ' ?
now , i have often seen the eyes of cowboy boo 's faithful australian shepherd .
unlike his owner , cowboy rarely wears dark glasses .
cowboys peepers both frosted blue compliment the red bandana that flaps wildly whenever he rides shotgun in the antique indian 's sidecar .
boo is the third generation of yoders to run the family junk business here in granite falls .
boo 's grandfather , big bob ' yoder , returned from wwii to open a small army and navy surplus store on the outskirts of town .
boo 's dad , little bob ' yoder , took over and ran the enterprise for thirty years , expanding it with cold war surplus and a few choice cast offs from the apollo space program .
now that boo is in charge , he has used the internet to expand yoder salvage into a global enterprise .
he buys and sells surplus items from around the world .
so , if you are looking for israeli made rare earth magnets or surplus russian geiger counters , boo is the man to see .
he will even special order products for his favorite customers .
that is why , when the rangers were in the market for a parachute harness , a hand held altimeter and a dozen extra large tanks of helium , we immediately thought of boo yoder and cowboy .
as it turned out , boo had parachute harnesses and altimeters on the yard .
we took them with us the day we presented him with our list .
and , within a week boo delivered the helium tanks directly to our secret backup clubhouse the bat cave .
he brought them over in the green mamba ' , a fully restored 1952 m37 weapons carrier .
cowboy rode head out the window ' on the passenger side of the olive drab ton 4 by 4 that boo calls the original super duty pickup ' .
boo and cowboy are the only non club members we trust with the knowledge of the bat cave in unit 007 at martin stoneys u store it .
that is because boo is a rare character who would rather mind his own business than someone else 's .
and , cowboy is a dog who knows how to keep a secret .
on the same day the helium arrived , the local ups depot received several unmarked crates filled with latex balloons and two giant brown cardboard boxes from the circle city costume company of indianapolis , indiana .
these packages were marked for delivery to yoder salvage company .
and , they too , were delivered to the bat cave by our ray ban sporting friend .
we did our best to collect everything necessary for our latest adventure without leaving an obvious trail leading back to the granite falls rangers .
because , when the balloon went up on project k for kringle there was likely to be plenty of fallout hitting the fan .
we were doing our best not to get splattered by it .
every year on the first saturday in december , granite falls hosts its annual christmas parade .
main street is filled with the middle school marching band and colorful floats covered with pretty girls in prom dresses .
and , anybody who wants to participate in the procession can just show up that morning and get in line .
last year the rangers decorated our electric golf cart with a giant hershey 's kiss on top .
toby and i drove while the rest of the club , wearing reindeer horns and blinking red noses , rode on a small hay wagon attached to the back .
we threw peppermint candy to all the kids along the route and of course chocolate kisses ' to all the girls .
right behind us came my favorite part of the procession the parade of tractors .
farmers from all over caldwell county showed up on their shined up and decked out iron horses to compete against each other in categories like biggest tires ' , ugliest tractor ' and most likely to give up the ghost ' .
at the tail of the parade , the finale is always a wagon pulled by a big red farmall covered in christmas ornaments .
in the back of the wagon , on a built up pile of hay bales , rides the grand marshal of the granite falls christmas parade , none other than santa claus .
santa waves to the crowd as he makes his way along the parade route .
and when the jolly old elf finally arrives at town square , he hops off the wagon and takes his place on a huge red chair in the middle of the band pavilion .
once hes set , he invites the small children of granite falls to climb up into santa 's lap and tell him what they want for christmas .
at least that 's what they used to do .
however , three years ago local businessman horace killjoy was elected mayor of granite falls .
and one of the mayor 's traditional duties is to portray santa in the annual christmas parade .
unfortunately , mayor killjoy does not share santa 's affection for small children .
in fact , i think he is afraid of them .
so , the last two years , instead of allowing those small citizens the opportunity hop up and tell santa their dreams for noel , the mayor has the children herded into a semi circle around the pavilion .
then , in place of christmas fun and yuletide joy , the children receive a 30 minute speech on good citizenship and personal responsibility ' .
clearly , this was an affront to the holiday season .
mayor killjoy had to be stopped and the true spirit of christmas had to be restored .
and , the granite falls rangers were just the team for the job !
when the first saturday in december rolled around this year , it was a crisp clean morning with a sun so bright , it made you squint .
but , you did not want to close your eyes completely or you might miss the incredible corn flower blue sky on this chamber of commerce brochure type day .
the citizens of granite falls may have realized that mayor killjoy was going to rain on their christmas parade .
however , that did not stop them from coming out in force to wave at the float riders , catch candy and reminisce about great parades of yester year .
the falls city had gone all out for the parade again this season .
there were a total of nine different floats ten if you counted the local brownie troop riding on a trailered bass boat .
in addition , there were two blocks worth of tractors including fords , farmalls and shiny green john deeres .
plus , downtown stores were decorated for the season .
lights and artificial holly hung from old wrought iron lamp posts .
loud speakers broadcast christmas carols .
and , the park benches around the town square were decorated with bunches of huge helium filled balloons , which somehow just appeared overnight .
new among the marchers in this years parade , behind the tractor motorcade and ahead of the marching band , was a group of six festively clad christmas elves .
the elves marched down the street in satin and velvet outfits with shiny red pointed shoes and belled christmas hats .
red zorro like masks covered their faces .
and , as the mysterious elves marched along towards town square , they waved at the crowd and pushed a giant christmas present on wheels , all wrapped up in sparkling paper and topped with a huge velvet bow .
since granite falls is a small town , it did not take long for the parade to make its way to the center .
with kick off time at 10 am sharp , by 10 45 santa was pulling up to the square and stepping down from his wagon .
and , it was exactly 10 48 am when the deputy mayor tagalong introduced santa claus and led him over to the big red chair .
now you would assume that since this was the third year mayor killjoy was portraying santa , parents would recognize the great train wreck that was about to take place .
but , apparently , some people didnt get the word .
or , maybe they just held out hope for some christmas miracle , where the mayor is unexpectedly filled with spirit of the season and does the right thing .
if so , those christmas optimists must have had their fingers crossed as santa ' sat down in the big red chair and switched on the microphone .
mayor killjoy 's voice boomed out , and he waved to the joyous crowd .
merry christmas !
hello boys and girls !
ho .
ho .
ho .
but , hopes and dreams were dashed once again when the mayor pulled out his black leather dayminder and began to read aloud .
boys and girls santa would like to start this year 's christmas lecture with a quote from president herbert hoover mayor killjoy had not been blessed with a scrooge like epiphany .
he had not been overcome by the magic of the season .
and , he was not planning to change his spirit of noel crushing ways .
so , the granite falls rangers were forced to take action .
weeooawwooooh !
a piercing screech of feedback rang through the public address system , and bystanders in the crowd covered their assaulted eardrums .
the mayor was startled by the outburst , and he quit talking for a second .
when it was clear that the electronic eruption was over , he resumed his speech .
however , to his chagrin , nothing happened .
his microphone had gone dead and someone else 's voice came over the loud speakers .
ladies and gentlemen , boys and girls .
please stand by for a special communication from the first citizen of the north pole .
looking up from his dayminder , santa claus ' signaled the deputy mayor .
he appeared to say something like , where 's that coming from ?
or what 's going on ?
but , since he was no longer miked up i really could not tell for sure .
however , a new voice addressed the crowd .
ho .
ho .
ho .
hello boys and girls .
this is santa claus , and i mean the real santa clause speaking to the citizens of granite falls .
by now the crowd of parents was as confused as the mayor .
but , the kids seemed to take it all in stride .
i am sorry to interrupt your christmas festivities .
but , i am afraid that i can no longer stand idly by and watch as your christmas parade is hijacked for political gain .
mayor killjoy was understandably upset by those remarks coming out of the speakers above him .
but , he attempted to remain in character while asserting his authority as the town 's chief executive .
in a loud unamplified voice , the mayor yelled , ho .
ho .
ho .
what 's the meaning of this ?
but , he was drowned out as the voice on the loudspeaker continued .
boys and girls .
the man you see before you dressed as santa claus is not santa claus !
he is granite falls mayor horace killjoy wearing a fake suit and beard .
and , as the real and genuine father christmas , i am putting my foot down .
i am no longer allowing this imposter to squash the spirit of the season !
so , if you will direct your attention to the giant christmas present on the street out front , i have a special surprise for you .
ta da !
the top of the giant christmas present suddenly flew off and out popped a grand surprise santa claus 2 .
this new santa was dressed in an expensive and elaborate costume of the highest quality satins and velvets that were available to the circle city costume company of indianapolis , indiana .
he wore a genuine human hair wig dyed an elegant silver gray .
from his cheeks sprouted the finest theatrical costumed white beard that money could buy .
for added effect and for additional concealment he sported a really nice pair of black ray ban sunglasses that radiated a particular seasonal coolness .
in comparison to santa clause 2 , santa clause 1 , mayor killjoy clearly came up short .
so , when santa 2 appeared , a cheer arose from the assembled children and many of them left their parents and ran toward this obviously superior kris kringle .
as the children rushed forward , sheriff 's deputy terrance boonfogle came hurrying over to the mayor carrying a bullhorn retrieved from his police cruiser .
suitably armed , the mayor retaliated against his interloping claus .
children , please !
the mayor ordered .
please return to your parents .
this person is not santa claus .
he is obviously some deranged lunatic .
unfortunately for the mayor , santa 2 reached down into the giant christmas box and pulled out a huge red bag full of goodies .
he began tossing beanie bears and super sized hershey bars to the assembled children .
not only did these kids not return their adult caregivers , the rest of children in the park immediately sprinted over to collect some goodies for themselves .
and , losing the rest of his under aged audience made horace killjoy see red .
sir , the outraged mayor demanded , i insist that you leave these premises at once .
or , i shall have deputy boonfogle arrest for you for creating a public disturbance !
but the second santa was undeterred by the threat of incarceration .
you better think twice , deputy , retorted santa 2 .
arresting santa claus is a guarantee that you will get coal in your stocking for life !
besides , he continued .
i am not here all alone .
then , from his pocket santa 2 pulled out a shiny brass whistle and blew three times .
screet !
screet !
screet !
seemingly , from nowhere but actually from a variety of strategic positions around the square came the six masked costumed elves who earlier participated in the christmas parade .
they were all carrying giant candy canes about three feet high and as big around as the tailpipe of a car .
quickly assembling into two straight lines on main street , the masked elves took a position between their leader and mayor killjoy .
then , like an rotc squad , the elves began to march and chant .
slapping their candy canes on the pavement and spinning them like a christmassy version of an m 16 , the precision elfin drill team clicked the heels of their pointed shoes and shouted out in cadence .
we 're the elves from the cold north pole .
we 've got christmas in our soul .
we wo n't let this lecture start .
cause mayor clause is a great big fart !
sound off one , two sound off three , four one , two , three , four , one , two ... three , four !
with a military flourish , the elves finished their routine , snapped to attention with their candy canes at their sides .
the crowd burst into spontaneous applause .
and , that was the final straw for mayor killjoy .
he turned to deputy boonfogle and issued an executive order that probably no other granite falls chief executive has ever had occasion to deliver deputy boonfogle , arrest santa clause !
looking sheepish , but bowing to the direct command , deputy boonfogle slowly walked down the steps of the band pavilion .
he was hoping that if he took his time , santa and the elves might disperse at the threat of internment .
that would allow the deputy to avoid taking father christmas into custody and possibly to dodge the lifelong sentence of coal and switches .
at first , it looked like the deputy might be partly successful .
the elves scattered but santa stood his ground .
deputy boonfogle approached holding his hands up in a quieting motion .
now let 's just take it easy , santa , said the deputy .
i 'm sure that this is all just a misunderstanding .
why dont we go down to the station and talk about it .
but his quarry was not about to go quietly .
you 're not takin ' me alive copper !
shouted father christmas .
santa ai n't spending noel in the slammer !
with a great flourish , santa claus circled his big toy bag over his head and scattered toys and candy everywhere .
like a giant christmas piata it disgorged treats of all shapes and sizes .
suddenly , there were children scrambling and diving all over the place .
it was a toddler riot !
there was no way the deputy could push through the throng , so he just stood back and waited for an opening .
however , at that very moment , the elves returned .
they came running up behind santa from various points of the square .
their candy canes were gone .
but , they were not empty handed .
the elves reassembled with clusters of colorful balloons retrieved from park benches around the area .
the balloons were extremely large ranging from three to six feet in diameter .
plus each bunch had a single heavy strength nylon ribbon leading down to a d clip .
the clips were swiftly attached to a crimson dyed parachute harness that was just barely visible against the red of santa 's jacket .
in seconds , forty or fifty large colorful balloons were attached to father christmas .
then , as the elves formed a circle around the big guy , santa 2 addressed the crowd .
well boys and girls , my work here is done .
it 's time for me to return to the north pole and finish packing up my sleigh .
be good and do what your parents and teachers tell you to do .
ho .
ho .
ho .
merry christmas !
as santa 's last merry christmas ' rang out to the crowd the elves released him and stood aside .
and , as soon as they let go , jolly old saint nick began to rise from the ground .
the red and green and white balloons provided lift and kris kringle quickly rose toward the beautiful december stratosphere .
santa began to pick up speed as the wind pushed him across the square .
and , as he cleared the old willow tree on the southwest corner you could hear him shouting .
to the top of porch .
to the top of the wall .
now dash away , dash away , dash away all !
parents , town officials and deputy sheriff boonfogle watched open mouthed as santa drifted upward into the wild blue yonder .
but , the kids took it all in stride shouting bye santa !
bye !
see you christmas eve !
ill be good !
this was not just the most exciting and fun filled christmas parade since horace killjoy was elected mayor .
this was clearly the biggest finish in the parades sixty four year history !
but , mayor killjoy was not the kind of person who enjoyed being upstaged even if it was by father christmas .
and , as soon as the mayor got over the initial shock of watching santa float away , he was on deputy boonfogle 's radio ordering the entire sheriff 's department to mount a high speed pursuit of the airborne elf .
when the dispatcher pointed out that sheriff 's cars were not going to catch a suspect fleeing through the air , the mayor demanded she contact the state police and order a helicopter to join the chase .
and mayor killjoy did not even stop there .
he began reeling off other groups that he believed the dispatcher should contact immediately .
the faa , the air force and the fbi were all organizations that the mayor demanded to be notified of the dangerous flying santa .
when the dispatcher inquired why all these groups would be interested in apprehending st. nick , the indignant mayor replied .
he 's a rogue elf .
he 's a danger to public safety and clearly a threat to homeland security !
with the mayor distracted by his attempts to contact the department of defense , it gave us elves time to disappear into the crowd .
running through deserted alleyways and rarely used back entrances of down town buildings , we managed to find private areas to slip out of our elf costumes and stash them into a half dozen gym bags purchased just for this occasion .
then , re dressed in unremarkable street clothes , we converged on the parking lot in back of dryers appliance store .
there we unobtrusively boarded a 1952 m37 weapons carrier , waiting with its motor running .
boo yoder hit the gas , and we headed out burke street in the direction the wind was blowing .
freddie and shad rode in the cab and toby , bogdon , thor , and i huddled together in the pickup bed .
boo had on his sunglasses .
cowboy was wearing an elf hat .
toby called charlie sinclair on his cell phone .
when charlie answered , toby put it on the speaker , so we could all hear .
hello , santa 's workshop .
this is father christmas .
how may i assist you ?
these are the elves calling , said toby .
we 've made it out of town safe and sound .
what is your location ?
well , the altimeter has me at 4000 feet .
i am just passing over the river .
according to the compass i am heading directly south west .
using the gps , i calculate i am traveling at 8 miles per hour .
good , toby replied .
you are leaving caldwell county and crossing into burke .
that should encourage the county deputies to call off their hot pursuit .
thor , who was monitoring the police band radio on a pair of head phones , held up his hand for quiet .
then he announced , thats it !
the dispatcher has called back the deputies .
the rest of us gave a small cheer .
wait a minute , said thor , holding up his hand .
oh no !
thor snatched off the headphones .
i just overhead a broadcast from the state police .
they have a helicopter in asheville they are sending this way .
their eta is approximately 30 minutes .
what a coincidence , observed bogdon .
that 's exactly how long i calculate it will take for charlie to reach the closest landing area .
i swear i could hear charlie gulp over the phone line .
in our planning we had never expected the state police to respond .
hey guys , charlie said .
i may not really be santa claus .
but , i do n't want to spend christmas in jail either !
do n't worry , thor assured him .
i 've got an idea how to buy you some time .
lets make some phone calls of our own .
it did not take us long to catch up with charlie .
we were traveling at thirty or forty miles per hour , and he was blowing along at about eight .
we did not even need binoculars to find him as we passed below .
he was less than a mile up , and we had no trouble spotting the bright red , green and white balloons against the deep blue sky .
we could even make out his cheery red santa suit .
before long , we passed through rhodhiss and drove southwest out of that community .
about half way to connelly springs , we pulled into the parking lot of a small white brick church beside the highway .
there was plenty of open cleared farm pasture around us .
if charlie continued on his current course and at his current speed , he should be able to touch down near our location in roughly fifteen minutes .
after our hurried escape and the rush to get out of granite falls , that little church parking lot was a welcome dose of peace and quiet .
occasionally , a car or pickup truck would come swishing buy , but traffic was light .
charlie 's progress may have been frustratingly slow , but it was also kind of relaxing to watch him float along with the wind .
in the distance some milk cows were mooing .
a large vee of canadian geese overflew our airborne santa and honked off into the distance .
resting in this small church parking lot would be a pleasant way to spend a beautiful december afternoon , if we were not facing jail time .
slowly .
slowly .
slowly .
charlie floated directly towards us .
he was on a straight line half a mile out from our position when we heard a thump , thump , thump sound coming out of the west .
here comes the state police helicopter , charlie announced over the cell phone .
i believe my christmas goose is cooked .
but , he had barely let go of his radio button before we heard more thumping noises coming up from the south .
this second clamor was not just a thump , thump , thump .
this one echoed thumpity , thumpity , thumpity and it was much , much louder .
alright !
here comes the cavalry !
thor exclaimed .
i just hope they get here in time .
as the background noise level increased , charlie glided slowly along toward our position .
i saw him cut loose one balloon .
then he waited thirty seconds and cut loose another .
slowly , he began to descend .
toby called up front to boo , he 's headed for that farm pasture across the street and up a block .
boo ground the truck into gear and , as soon as the coast was clear , he drove onto the highway .
we headed north for a block and pulled down a graded county road and drove about a hundred yards .
thor hopped off the truck and opened a gate in the roadside fence and boo continued into a pasture .
then , boo sped up and headed into the center of the field .
a minute later the green mamba stopped beneath a great big pin oak that stood majestically in the middle of the meadow .
underneath that big tree , we would be pretty hard to spot from the air .
we dismounted .
and remaining under the cover of the branches we had a great view of the scene unfolding before us .
coming up on charlie from the west , the state police helicopter fluttered in , determined to get their man .
but , from the south , three more helicopters were flying in hot .
they were the charlotte news choppers from television channels 6 , 13 and 42 .
dashing flat out , the news teams were racing each other to get the first and best pictures of flying santa ' .
each set of pilots and news reporters realized that a couple of seconds of santa waving from a cluster of brightly colored balloons would end up being broad cast worldwide .
this was a big chance to make the network news !
the channel 13 eyewitness chopper was the fastest in the crowd , or maybe just had the craziest pilot .
he whipped inside and made a wide right turn around charlie so the camera man sitting on the right side of the helicopter could get an unobstructed view .
the state police chopper that was barreling in from the west was forced to break off and let the dare devil news crew get its story .
the police made a wide left hand turn and circled around for another pass .
next , channel 42 action news came in behind the eyewitness chopper .
the action news crew cut off the state police once again .
once again , it meant another wide sweeping turn for the authorities .
coming in a third time , the police chopper had a small window of opportunity to get to charlie .
however , the police pilot held back .
he was certain the newschannel 6 helicopter was about to fly right up his tail rotor !
and , he was correct to be cautious .
as the state police watched , the newschannel 6 chopper came tearing in so close we could see charlie bouncing around in the rotor wash. two more of charlie 's balloons floated free and not because he cut them .
by now , charlie was descending awfully fast .
through the binoculars i could see he was tearing open the front of his santa suit trying to get to the water bottles he carried as ballast .
our original plan was for charlie to open the stoppers and pour out the water if necessary , in order to gain altitude .
but now , charlie was grabbing the bottles and throwing them unopened as quickly as he could .
he was close enough now that we could see some of these water bombs ' exploding as they hit the ground below .
several minutes had passed with the helicopter chicken dance and now charlie was almost on top of us .
apparently , the rotor wash gave him a push , or he hit a slightly faster air current as he descended .
either way , he was only seconds from the pasture where we were hiding .
decoy santa maneuver !
toby ordered .
scampering back on the truck , i pulled at a tarp lying at the bottom corner of the bed , which revealed a mannequin we retrieved from a dumpster behind jenny 's dress barn .
it was already decked out in christmas red and white .
i simply handed it down to thor .
then i jumped off the back .
thor carried mannequin santa ' and we all sprinted to the end of the pasture , just as charlie returned to earth with a thud .
oomph !
charlie groaned , as he smacked down on top of bogdon .
they both went down , but the balloons quickly pulled charlie up again .
that is when toby caught charlie from behind .
i got his left side .
bogdon jumped up and took a position on his right .
we all grabbed onto the parachute harness and held on tight .
charlie yanked the quick release buckle on the harness .
but he struggled trying to break free of the extra safety strap that was tied in the middle .
as charlie fought to untangle himself , bogdon peabody uncharacteristically yanked out a buck knife and sliced through the strap with one quick thrust .
charlie was free !
as charlie slid from the harness and fell to his knees , we held the attachment in place while thor inserted the mannequin .
when thor clicked the harness buckle , we were ready .
the mannequin did not need a safety strap .
thor ordered , release the decoy !
six hands released the faux santa and we jumped back .
like a rocket the hollow mannequin , much lighter than charlie sinclair , shot upward .
within seconds decoy kris kringle left the pasture behind .
the state police helicopter had been making a landing approach on our position .
but , seeing santa was airborne again , the pilot gunned the engine and resumed the chase .
in fact , all four helicopters took off after the decoy , while we ran and half dragged charlie beneath the oak tree and out of sight .
for ten minutes we held our position .
but , the helicopters did not return .
the thwack , thwack , thwack just faded in the distance .
finally , peeking out through the tree branches we spotted the decoy santa at eight or nine thousand feet and floating briskly towards morganton .
he was sailing happily along doing his job taking heat off of us .
it was not that long a drive back to granite falls .
in fact , we had time to stop at a convenience store in rhodhiss , where charlie and bogdon bought slurpees for everyone .
cowboy had cherry .
while bog and charlie were inside , thor and i were out back stashing a santa suit in the dumpster .
later , we made it home just in time to catch some great shots of santa clause charlie sinclair on the news at five .
there was wonderful footage of charlie hanging from his christmas balloons and waiving to the reporters .
what a camera hog !
two days after the parade we gathered in our main club house in the big white oak tree in freddies grandparents back yard .
freddie had a copy of the granite falls gazette and the paper featured a full color photo of santa and his elves on the front page .
when freddie read the article out loud , we learned our decoy santa floated all the way to tennessee where he made landfall in the middle of a rural church prayer meeting .
i can only imagine what kind of prayer that those folks believed was being answered .
freddie also read the official announcement from mayor horace killjoys office .
from this day forward the holiday parade would have to do without granite fall 's chief executive .
he was no longer choosing to participate .
next year the parade committee would have to select an at large father christmas .
hopefully one with at least a morsel of the holiday spirit .
well , project k for kringle achieved all our objectives , our role in the escapade remained a secret , and we managed to elude the sheriffs deputies and the state police .
so , freddie dunkleberger folded up the newspaper and placed it inside the old army footlocker in the center of the tree house .
then , as freddie snapped the drab green hasp shut and closed the page on another ranger adventure , he tiny timed those immortal words .
god bless us , everyone we capture the wampus cat !
there is something about a campfire flickering under a starry night sky , that just makes you want to spin yarns and tell stories .
maybe the fire takes us back thousands of years to our caveman days ?
or , maybe it just takes us back a century or two to a cowboy life spent on the open range ?
or , maybe its just that theres no tv around to watch ?
for whatever the reason , this beautiful summer evening found all seven members of the granite falls rangers seated around the campfire telling tales of wonder and fancy .
it was our first night of a weeklong camping trip , deep into the out yonder , where the blue ridge mountains leave tennessee and wander into north carolina .
we were here on a scientific expedition performing a population census of the procyon lotor .
thats a fancy way of saying we were out in the middle of nowhere counting raccoons .
as far as i know , it was not like the raccoons are endangered or needed saving or anything .
there is no shortage of raccoons .
nor is there some raccoon plague or horde of raccoons terrifying the locals .
so , i guess some scientific foundation somewhere had a lot of money and couldnt decide what to do with it .
one of the guys says , i wonder how many raccoons are up in the mountains ?
and another guy says , i dont know .
lets pay someone to find out .
anyway , thors older sister hildagrune is working on her doctorate degree at nc state .
and , she applied for that research grant and those curious guys gave her money to count raccoons in this stretch of mountains .
and , since her brother and his friends work free and have their own night vision goggles , she invited us to come along to do all the leg work , while she crunches the numbers .
of course , the rangers jumped at the opportunity .
for four hours each day or night we hike around the mountains checking raccoon feeding stations , counting raccoon footprints and downloading the photographs from the infrared game cameras .
then , for the other twenty hours of the day , we hike , we fish , we have enormous paintball wars and generally get into whatever mischief we feel like making .
and , this very moment , we felt like hanging around the campfire listening to scary stories .
lucky for us , we were joined in our coon counting expedition by a real genuine chuck wagon cook hondo yarnell .
hondo was a wiry old coot with scraggly grey whiskers that covered a face as weathered as the old sweat stained stetson on his head .
the antiqued cook favored the title dough puncher .
and , you could tell hondo was an authentic cowboy cause his boots had plenty of genuine cow manure caked up around the edges .
hondo cooked out of the back of the multipurpose chuck wagon , where slept during the night .
during the day the wagon was his open air kitchen , where he created good hearty camp food and plenty of it .
we were also joined at the camp fire tonight by hildagrunes boyfriend , ty renfro , and by maynard bart , a local mountain man who fancied himself an expert on this part of the blue ridge .
ty met mr. bart this afternoon at the three corners general store a couple miles down the valley , where he stopped to ask directions .
mr. bart offered to guide ty up to our camp , mostly because he wanted to meet the bunch of city slickers trespassing in his mountains .
ty was tall , blonde and needed a haircut .
with khaki pants and a colorful fashion sweater , he looked like he had just stepped out of an old navy commercial .
he was the kind of fellow who would get upset if he got mud on his topsiders .
so , i dont really think he was up here because he cared that much about raccoons .
maynard bart was a big man , course and dirty from a life lived outdoors .
he had a dark brown beard that hid most of his face , but you could still see a large dented nose and a double scar across his left cheek .
mr. bart seemed friendly enough .
but , for some reason i got the feeling he enjoyed intimidating people with his size and roughness .
ty and hildagrune got up from the fire .
hildagrune explained .
im going to give ty a tour of our camp and we may walk up to the first feeding station at the bottom of the ridge .
has anyone seen my flashlight ?
here it is , said toby , tossing over the aluminum tube .
you two ought to double check them batteries , hondo suggested with a chuckle .
it would be a real shame if they were to go dead and you lost your way in the forest .
why , you might just have to find soft spot where you could spend all night huddled together to keep from freezing .
i started to point out to hondo that it was summer and not likely to get cold tonight .
but , before i could add my two cents , mr. bart spoke up .
you really ought to take more than a flashlight .
you need some protection if you are going into these woods at night .
this aint the city .
this is the wilderness .
you never know what you might find out there on a night like this .
snakes ?
bears ?
who knows ?
you might even run into the wampus cat and then you would be in some real trouble .
in the shadowed firelight , i could see hildagrune make her best im a grown up woman and i am not about to let anyone tell me what to do face .
but , she offered a conciliator comment .
dont worry about us , gentlemen .
we wont be traveling too far from camp .
to hondo she added , and rest assured , that there wont be any all night huddling !
we were settled into a small valley field that butted up against a sheer cliff on the west and a forested strip backed up by a ridgeline over to the east .
the couple walked off down the pathway leading over to the ridge .
they pretty much disappeared in the darkness as soon as they left the camp fire .
we could occasionally see the flashlight as they moved out of the clearing .
but , as soon as they reached the trees they were gone .
back at the campfire , bogdon had a question .
mr. bart ?
what was that you were warning hildagrune about ?
you mentioned something called a wampus cat ?
dont tell me you boys have never heard of the wampus cat ?
why the wampus cat is the meanest , scariest , deadliest creature to ever inhabit these mountains .
yes sir , i would rather walk into a den full of grizzly bears , than to meet the wampus cat on a night like tonight .
we drew in close to the fire .
this sounded like a good story was brewing .
thor asked for more details , what is a wampus cat ?
what does it look like ?
nobody is quite sure what the wampus cat is or where it come from , mr. bart replied .
but , there are plenty of stories of how it came to inhabit these mountains .
some say it was an old witch that lived here 200 years ago who used to change into a giant cat to snatch her neighbors livestock and children .
one day her changing was interrupted by a posse of neighbors headed by the local priest .
to save herself , the old woman ran into the woods , unable to finish turning .
so , she is forever stuck as half cat and half human .
mr. bart threw another log into the fire and wiped his hands before he continued .
now the cherokees say the wampus cat was an indian maiden who defied the tribal elders .
instead of staying home and learning the female way , she would hunt the mountains wearing a cougar skin to hide the fact she was a woman .
somehow , through an indian spell or a curse from the elders , the cougar skin became part of her .
she became something that was not exactly human and not exactly cat .
about that time , freddy snuck up behind shad .
grabbing shads neck from behind , freddy squeaked , wampus cat !
shad was startled enough to fall forward and out of his camp chair .
but , he picked himself up and sat right back down immediately after frogging freddie in retaliation .
the mountain man ignored the squabble and continued with his tale .
i dont rightly know which story is true .
maybe neither ?
but , what i do know is something lurks in these mountains at night .
it hunts with the skill of a cat , but it walks upright with red eyes glowing like hot coals in the darkness .
have you ever seen the wampus cat , mr. bart ?
i asked .
yes , boy .
i seen the wampus cat .
on a night like this , it was i spent the day checking some traps on the other side of the ridge and somehow i let the night sneak up on me .
course , i wasnt worried at first .
id been on these mountains plenty of times after dark .
but , there was something different about that night .
we leaned forward , drawn in by his words .
at first it was just a feelin , said the mountain man .
but , then i heard the leaves rustle or a spotted bush moving and i knew i was not alone .
with my rifle in one hand and my hand axe in the other , i was trekking slowly down the trail .
and , then the wind changed and i smelled it .
you smelled it ?
bog asked .
thats right .
i smelled it .
it had the musk of a skunk and that sweet sickly smell of something long dead .
what did you do then ?
gasp bogdon .
i ran , boy .
i ran down that mountain .
behind me i heard what sounded like the yowl of a panther , but i just kept running for all i was worth .
i could hear those footsteps crunching through the leaves behind me and i kept running faster .
it seemed like a mile , but it could have been five .
i was so scared that time didnt seem to be passin .
finally , i was plumb run out .
my chest was heavin .
my lungs was burnin .
i could hardly move another step forward .
so , i lifted up my axe and i cocked my rifle and i turned around to face the thing .
the big man had our attention now and he knew it .
there it was .
its eyes where glowing red .
its mouth was open and moonlight gleamed off spittle and long deadly fangs .
it started walking forward screamin bloody murder .
i did what any man when do when faced by this unknown terror .
i aimed my rifle and fired .
bamm .
bamm .
bamm .
one after another i pumped bullets into the wampus cat but it kept coming .
when i ran out of ammunition i swung the axe as hard as i could , but the wampus cat reached out with one hand and ripped it from my fingers .
i went for my knife but , it was too late we were gripped by his story !
did you kill it ?
freddie asked .
did you scare it off ?
shad almost screeched .
what happened ?
bog demanded .
mr. bart waited as the suspense grew .
but then he matter of factly replied , why , it killed me of course .
it ripped open my chest and ate my heart while it was still beatin .
aawww man !
we groaned as the old mountain man laughed out loud .
the old goat had gotten us good .
so theres really no such thing as a wampus cat ?
asked toby .
the mountain man looked up and his eyes glowed in the reflected fire light .
now , im not saying that boys .
the fact is ive hunted these mountains everyday for over fifty years .
theres things up there i aint never seen and i dont think i want to .
ive heard the yowl on dark nights .
and , ive found animals torn to pieces not like no wolf or bear would do eatin em .
something tore em apart just for fun .
and , i have smelled a rank smell coming up over that ridge line .
his voice got spooky again .
was it the wampus cat ?
was it something even worse ?
i dont know .
but , if i were you , i wouldnt be wandering around these mountains in the dark .
i dont know what you boys are getting paid to count coons but you cant spend money if youre eat up .
we sat there pondering mr. barts words until hondo got up and brushed off his pants .
well , i hate to break up this little party .
but , a cowboy aint ought a stay up late if hes a working in the morning .
breakfast is at 7 am sharp .
and , them biscuits aint gon na bake themselves .
so , i think we ought to tell mr. bart goodnight and turn in .
we said goodnight to mr. bart and he headed off down the trail towards town .
we had set up our tents earlier so there was not much to our evening routine .
all we had to do was brush our teeth and crawl into our sleeping bags .
i took a swig from my canteen , gargled and spit .
then i asked , hondo ?
do you believe in the wampus cat ?
course i do , answered hondo .
and i believe in fairy godmothers , magical ponies , good honest cowboys and other miraculous creatures .
that night i lay awake in my bedroll for quite a while thinking about wampus cats and raccoons and cowboy cooks , before i finally drifted off to sleep .
wake up , jeep !
wake up .
somethings outside !
my tent mate toby was shaking me awake .
i did not feel like i had been sleeping long .
i was groggy and i had trouble getting up .
i opened my eyes and saw through the tent flap it was still dark outside .
toby was beside me .
he was bent over and shaking my shoulder .
get up , you pillow hound !
somethings outside !
i suddenly snapped awake .
is it the wampus cat ?
i gasped not unless the wampus cat has engines , replied toby curtly .
now get out of bed and come see this .
i wiggled out of my sleeping bag and stepped from the tent .
it was dark outside .
with the fire died down to a few glowing coals , it was darker than when we went to bed .
it had also cooled down significantly .
i did not need to snuggle anyone but i did want to stop and pull my jeans on .
hurry , said toby .
its coming back for another pass and youre gon na miss it !
i gave up on the jeans and walked out of the tent in my underwear and flip flops .
the sky was so clear it seemed like there were a million stars shining down on us and i saw right away what toby had gotten me up for .
above a mountainside off to the north , there was a big black object blocking out the stars as it moved across the sky towards us .
i could hear the rumble of distant engines .
as it approached , it got bigger and much louder .
its engines made so much noise the chuck wagon began to rattle .
the aircraft showed no running lights .
but , suddenly it switched on a spotlight , illuminating another object in the sky in front of it .
the two objects appeared to be headed for a midair collision .
as the first object approached the second object the light gave us more detail .
the second thing appeared to be a sphere dangling at the end of a line stretching up into the darkened heavens .
i grimaced at the last second , expecting to hear a crash or see some sort of explosion .
but , the two objects came together without much impact .
in fact , the spotlight switched off and the aircraft rumbled straight over us like nothing happened .
the chuck wagon sounded like it was going to shake apart as the big engines came powering overhead .
i was vaguely aware toby and i were no longer alone .
we had been joined our fellow rangers .
freddie , who can almost see in the dark , spoke up as the noise receded .
its a four engine prop job , like a c 130 .
why doesnt it have its lights on ?
what did it run into ?
asked toby .
was it an airplane crash ?
did something go down over there ?
i didnt hear any crash and i didnt see any explosion , said charlie .
maybe we should get our night vision gear and go search for wreckage , i suggested .
i dont know what it was but it wasnt a collision said freddie .
it looked more like the big plane was trying to snag something out of mid air .
just the same , i said .
maybe we should go see what we can find .
i think we should wait until the sun comes up , replied bogdon softly .
i dont think we should leave camp right now .
why wait ?
i argued .
lets head out before trail goes cold !
do you smell something ?
asked toby .
what do you mean ?
i barked impatiently .
i was anxious to get out into the woods right now .
but , then the wind shifted and i caught a whiff .
i thought for a minute .
maybe you guys are right ?
charlie made it official , theres no sense going off half cocked .
well get up in the morning , pack a few things and head out right after breakfast .
toby and i went back to the tent .
but , the truth is we played gameboy until the eastern sky started changing from black to grey .
about the time the high thin clouds started to catch the rising sun , we finally fell back asleep .
by the time hondo routed us out of our sleeping bags the next morning , the sickly sweet skunk odor was gone .
speaking of smells it was the smell of hondo frying bacon that finally got us out of bed the next morning .
we awoke to find him working over the campfire .
bacon was browning in giant cast iron skillet .
in another skillet , he was making eggs to order .
an enormous dutch oven covered with glowing coals was baking biscuits inside .
with plenty of fruit and juice and milk , it was a breakfast worth getting up for .
eat up , boys , hondo ordered .
we dont have no refrigerator .
anything we dont eat gets thrown out for the wampus cat .
to shad , that was like a challenge .
he grabbed a camp chair and a tin plate .
well my mother didnt raise me to waste food , he said .
pass me over some biscuits and some butter .
i want to cleanse my pallet .
with a pallet full of biscuits ?
freddie snickered .
soon , we all pitched in and helped shad eat through a couple dozen eggs and at least two pounds of bacon .
shad was in rare form .
the mountain air seemed to have sharpened his already razor edged appetite .
he crunched through the last few rashers .
hondo , is that all of the biscuits ?
hondo smiled .
he was clearly impressed by shads ability to eat .
but , like every great artist , he liked to see his work appreciated .
boy , i think you finally cleaned me out .
what was that ?
eleven or twelve you ate ?
fourteen , shad answered nonchalantly .
fourteen biscuits , six eggs and a couple handfuls of bacon .
that ought a tide me over til lunchtime .
now lunchtime , thats when i really get hungry .
hondo shook his head in awe , i may have to wander down to the general store and stock up on a few things , then .
i wouldnt want you boys to have to walk away unsatisfied .
hondo started organizing his post breakfast routine .
freddie , why dont you and bogdon pickup them plates , scrape em off into the garbage and bring em over to the wash bucket .
charlie , you and thor come over to the wagon and give me a hand downloading .
i got me a floppy disk .
charlie perked up , do you have a computer in your chuck wagon , hondo ?
i aint got no computer , hondo spit distastefully .
ive got a big stack of firewood needs downloading off the wagon onto the ground .
id do it myself but i got me a floppy disk in my back from chopping it all day yesterday .
do you have a keyboard in there , hondo ?
asked freddie .
sure do said hondo .
thats where i hang my truck keys .
freddie continued , what about software ?
them dang plastic forks and knives and such ?
naw , i prefer the real thing .
a hard drive ?
gettin home in the winter when theres snow on the ground .
a micro chip ?
that is what 's at the bottom of the potato chip bag .
re boot ?
what you do right before bedtime , when you have to go to the outhouse .
freddie had met his match .
he smiled and shook he head in admiration .
then he turned his attention back to cleaning the breakfast plates .
as soon as thor and charlie finished stacking firewood , we packed up our hiking gear .
then , we told hildagrune we were heading out to check the feeding stations up north and took off down up trail .
it was a beautiful morning , still cool in the shade of the big hardwood trees .
as we crossed over a couple of clear running mountain streams , we scouted out places to return to with our fishing gear .
we kept moving deeper into the mountains , occasionally stopping to check our gps locators and home in on feeding stations .
each feeding station was attached to a tree about four or five feet up .
it had a food bucket and a motion activated infrared camera .
when we arrived at each location , we checked for footprints .
we downloaded pictures from the memory card .
and , we refilled the food bucket with raccoon chow .
i bet you didnt know they even made raccoon chow .
whatever we found , toby carefully recorded in his blackberry along with the time and date .
for two hours we followed a deer trail and hit four separate feeding stations .
then , we climbed a small outcropping on one of the northern mountainsides .
from there we had a pretty good view of the area below us , and we scanned for results of the midnight midair collision .
we couldnt see any wreckage or fiery crash sites or anything , so i concentrated for a few minutes listening for and sound of metal .
there was lots of general background noise .
people had been camping in and traveling through these mountains for years .
the place is littered with old axe heads , horseshoes and broken plows .
the stuff is scattered throughout the area .
but , when i listened intently and really focused i could narrow down two larger targets .
facing our camp almost directly south , one target was west of the trail we had taken up the hillside .
the other target was coming from over a ridgeline pretty far to the east .
we decided to head back down the mountainside on a southwesterly course .
this would allow us to check out the smaller target , while generally heading back toward camp .
it was already midmorning and shads stomach was beginning to rumble .
after 30 minutes of carefully picking our way down the mountain we reached flatter ground .
chopping through some dense thicket , we were making our way to a stand of pines when toby spotted something .
hey guys .
check out that pine tree over there .
the limbs are all torn off .
following tobys outstretched finger , we saw what he was talking about .
twenty yards away was a large white pine with all the limbs on one side sheared off from the top down .
it looked like a giant with a machete had hacked off one whole side of the tree .
scrambling over to the site , we quickly removed a stack of the fallen branches .
at the bottom , resting in a nest of pine needles was a shiny egg shaped object about the size of a large beach ball .
thor grabbed it with both hands and pulled .
he lifted the object out of a deep oblong indentation in the earth and pine needle thatch .
thor rolled it over so we could get a better look .
what is it ?
i asked .
it looks like a giant container of silly putty , freddie observed .
maybe its a bomb ?
shad offered .
bogdon and toby carefully examined the object .
no heat shield , said bogdon .
no scorching either , toby observed .
but , look .
theres a broken handle .
its probably where the cord was attached .
yep , bog agreed .
thats probably why the pickup failed last night .
when the handle ripped off the whole thing went into freefall .
bogdon leaned over .
here , give me a hand .
together , he and toby lifted the object off the ground .
its pretty light , bog declared .
its not hollow , but its not packed solid like a bomb .
bogdon slid off his backpack and searched through it .
he pulled out a portable tool set .
lets pop it open and see if theres a prize inside .
while toby steadied the object , bogdon maneuvered his battery powered screwdriver .
in seconds he popped off four screws from a metal panel and pried off the cover with the blade of his pocketknife .
he handed the metal plate over his shoulder without even looking back .
since i was closest , i took it from him .
bog took out his flashlight and shined it inside .
electronics .
circuit boards .
batteries .
its all solid state stuff , but it looks like it took quite a blow when it hit the ground .
everythings all jumbled up inside .
he stood up , turned around and addressed the club .
i believe it is part of some sort of information gathering platform .
it does not show any signs of re entry burns nor does it look like its built for outer space .
it is probably part of a drone , a spy plane or a uav .
an suv ?
freddie questioned .
how would a sport utility vehicle have dropped that egg from the sky ?
not an suv , a uav .
its an unmanned aerial vehicle .
its like a great big radio controlled airplane the military uses to spy on whats happening below .
anyway , when its data banks are full , it drops one of these balls via parachute .
that way , it does not have to land .
it can stay on station and keep watching .
toby took over .
thats what we spotted last night .
the blacked out plane attempted to snag the line between the parachute and this thing .
but , for some reason there was a weak handle on the object that was yanked off .
the parachute was disconnected and this thing dropped out of the sky like a bowling ball .
toby pointed to the side of the tree , it hit the tree and snapped off every limb on the way down .
the good news is those tree limbs probably slowed it enough so it did not disintegrate when it hit the ground .
bogdon added , well know more when we get it back to camp .
we can examine it properly there .
he held out his hand and i placed the cover into it .
like the tire man on a nascar pit crew , bog zipped those screws back in place .
meanwhile , charlie took his machete and went to work on one of the larger broken limbs .
he hacked off the branches until he had a smooth strong pole .
using some climbing rope and a rain poncho , we wrapped up the object and tied it to the center of the pole .
this allowed bearers , one at either end , to rest the pole on their shoulders .
taking turns on the pole , we lugged the big egg back down the mountain and found the trail that led to our camp .
it seemed pretty light when we started back to base , but the farther we went the heavier the thing seemed to get .
by the time we walked into camp and deposited the object in bogdons tent , we were bushed .
as tired as we were from a morning of touch climbing and carrying the egg , when we got back to camp hondo was ready with an amazing lunch that perked us right back up .
he grilled hotdogs over the campfire and used a huge black cast iron pot to deep fry cherry pies .
wow !
hondos hot fried pies and cold sweet tea were worth the trip all by themselves !
after we stuffed down all we could hold , thor , shad , freddie and i did kp duty , while bogdon , toby and charlie got busy disassembling the egg .
once everything was cleaned and put away , i headed back to my tent for a little siesta .
i was ready to sleep away the heat of the day and let my lunch digest .
i guess the salvage trip took more out of me than i realized .
or , maybe it was because i missed out on a lot of sleep the night before .
anyway , i slept long and hard .
when i finally stirred it was the middle of the afternoon .
i wandered over to bogdons tent and bog , toby and charlie were still hard at it .
several external plates had been removed from the egg and there were components and pieces of hardware spread out across a bedroll .
they were hard at it and there was not enough room for another body in the tent .
so , i wandered over to a shady spot on the edge of the clearing where thor was working on his fishing tackle .
are you thinking about wetting a line ?
i asked .
yep .
yesterday morning , before the rest of you got here , hildagrune and i put out some feeding stations north east of the camp .
just this side of the ridge up there is a stream that spills into the clearest , sweetest little string of trout pools that youll ever lay eyes on .
the water trickles out of each hole and moves on down the mountainside .
i know there are some big ole brook trout in that stretch that are just waiting for us .
what about it , jeep ?
you want to sneak away and try our luck ?
looks like the science team is going to be occupied all afternoon ?
thats what i came for , i replied .
let me grab my gear !
heading up the trail to the north , it was a long steady climb .
most of the way we paralleled the stream and at couple of spots i suggested we stop and try our luck .
but , thor was persistent .
so , we kept moving up the mountain and closer to his brook trout shangri la .
it was nearly 5 oclock when we broke through a thick bunch of mountain laurel and there it was .
it was clear and clean , just like thor had described it .
the shallow and slow moving water was like a series of ponds , each isolated by a small waterfall .
it followed the curve of the mountain and stretched out of sight .
each section was like a separate world to be fished .
there were sunny spots and shady spots .
there was underwater structure .
there were deeper holes and shallower , faster moving segments .
if you sat down and drew up a perfect trout stream this was exactly what it would be like .
it was not long before we had our lines in the water .
i was using orange salmon eggs and thor had some sort of trout nugget he had seen on tv .
and , almost immediately we started getting strikes .
slowly we moved up the stream casting to likely looking spots and almost every time some hungry little brookie took the bait .
there was a creel limit of four each in this part of the state , but we could easily have taken three times that many .
and that wasnt counting the undersized ones that fought so hard they thrilled us almost as much as their bigger brothers .
it was an amazing afternoon .
we werent fishing we were catching !
and , the weather was beautiful .
it was just hot enough that we stepped into the stream and let the cool water fill our tennis shoes to refresh us .
for hours , the fish took everything we threw at them .
it was magical .
finally , with the sun going down and dusk approaching , we finally tore ourselves away .
we knew we had to get back before the rest of the club started to worry .
besides , i had a couple of two pound brook trout in the canvas covered wicker creel i got for my birthday .
i could not wait to show them off to the guys .
the light faded quicker than we expected .
and , walking back down the mountain and under the thick forest canopy very quickly it got hard to see .
we tripped over a couple of roots and walked into some thorny vines but we were still making good time .
we were about a third of the way to camp when we heard the snarl .
i call it a snarl .
it might have been a cross between a snarl and a yowl .
it was clearly loud and feline .
thor and i stopped in our tracks and looked at each other .
then we heard it again !
this time is was louder and closer .
without saying a word , thor and i started double timing it down the mountain .
it was a long way back to camp but at least it was downhill .
so , we kept moving faster and faster .
every couple of minutes we heard the snarl again .
each time it seemed as close as or closer than before .
whatever it was , it was clearly following us .
i had the unsettling thought that we were being hunted .
every minute it was getting darker and harder to see .
thor and i kept smacking into branches and hitting thorny vines that ripped through our clothes .
but , we ignored the scrapes and slaps and kept moving .
there is an area where the mountain flattens out .
the slope comes to an abrupt halt and the upper valley begins .
when we hit this section , thor yelled , were almost there .
calling on the last of our strength we speeded up our pace .
suddenly , like hitting a bottom step by surprise , my knee locked up .
i lost my footing and went sprawling out onto the forest floor .
when i tumbled to a stop , my hands and legs were scraped and bleeding .
my stuff was scattered everywhere .
i pulled myself up on my knees and without thinking i started to gather up fishing gear .
leave it !
thor ordered .
lets get out of here !
throwing down his pole , thor reached over with both hands and pulled me up to my feet .
together we sprinted for the tree line in the distance .
behind us we heard one more snarl that seemed as loud as any that had come before .
we dashed from the forest and popped out into the camp clearing .
finally out from under the canopy , it was much lighter .
night had not completely fallen .
and , there were still high orange streaks in the western sky .
but , in front of us we could see the guys eating supper around the campfire .
jogging those last few paces into the fire light , we arrived completely out of breath .
bending over and grabbing our knees , we were too exhausted to do anything but gasp .
our chests were heaving and it was a minute or two before we were able to talk .
freddie spoke before we caught our breath .
you didnt have to run home , he said .
we saved you some dinner .
i did not know whether to laugh or smack him !
i thought the guys were going to make fun of us when we told them of our encounter with the wampus cat .
but , they were okay about it .
toby suggested the wampus cat might instead have been a mountain lion or a bobcat , since both creatures were known to pass through this area on occasion .
regardless , he agreed that walking along in the dark with a creel full of fish was a bad idea with a large hungry feline on the loose .
since we had not smelt the creature , nor spotted any glowing eyes , thor and i began to relax about the meeting .
by the time we finished eating dinner , we were ready to believe that it probably was just a mountain lion chasing a trout dinner .
before we turned in for the evening , we made plans to head out bright and early the next day .
we would gather up our fishing gear and look for cat signs .
i went to bed right after dinner , hoping that i would find my new creel in the morning .
it had been a long day and i was exhausted .
i fell asleep as soon as my head the pillow .
but , all night long i tossed and turned .
my dreams were filled with burning red eyes .
and , i ran and ran .
but every time i turned around , the wampus cat was getting closer and closer .
i kept hearing that snarl and seeing those gleaming white fangs .
it was a relief when morning finally came .
puffy grey clouds covered the early morning sky when i rolled out of bed the next day .
i heard hondo rattling around with the chuck wagon .
while the rest of the team were still sacked out , i wandered over to the camp fire and started trying to build it up for cooking breakfast .
i reached down and picked up a piece of firewood and then i let it drop .
there was some kind of goop all over my hand where i touched the wood .
i looked intently at my palm and then i sniffed it gingerly , trying to figure out what the stuff was .
as soon as i got it up to my nose i caught a strong fishy odor .
i looked back down at the wood pile .
there were entrails scattered all around !
when i spotted a sliced up tail and part of a head , i realized it was the remains of at least one of the brook trout i had caught on the previous day .
quickly surveying the camp and the tree line , i relaxed when i did not spot anything unusual .
i took a deep breath and told myself that probably some raccoon had dragged the fish into camp and consumed it for a midnight snack .
i went back to working on the fire .
i brushed off any visible fish parts from the logs as i fed them into the flames .
before long i had a real blaze going .
i sat back into one of the camp chairs .
thats when i spotted something hanging off the side .
it was my creel .
whatever wondered into camp last night and devoured that brook trout , also carried in my birthday present .
but , no raccoon would have gone to the trouble of closing my creel and hanging it neatly from the back of the chair !
something else had paid us a visit .
the wampus cat is not scaring us off this mountain .
i dont know about the rest of you guys but i am sick and tired of being messed with !
it was after breakfast we had snuck off into the forest and sat down on a couple of fallen logs to have an official club meeting .
out of earshot of hondo and hildagrune we were getting down to business .
the mood was angry .
bogdon was speaking .
and , although people think he is kind of shy , this morning he was forceful .
his face was red and he was definitely on a roll .
mr. president , fellow club members , up until now we have ignored the wampus cat because we thought that it did not exist .
but , clearly someone or something is yanking our chain and i refuse to sit by and continue being played the fool .
what if it really is a wampus cat ?
freddie asked .
bogdon thought for a minute .
as chief scientist of the granite falls rangers i can only answer one way so what ?
so what if its a real wampus cat ?
if we capture it well be international heroes .
then we can give it to hildagrune for study and shell probably make full professor .
bogdon paused and let that thought sink in .
on the other hand , if it turns out someone is pretending to be a wampus cat because they enjoy messing with a bunch of middle schoolers well , they have picked the wrong bunch of middle schoolers to mess with this time !
bog was on a roll now .
mr. president , i propose a call to action .
i recommend that company a of the granite falls rangers set a trap for , and capture , the wampus cat for the purpose of scientific study and mostly because i am tired of being jerked around !
second , second , yelled freddie and shad .
the motion carried unanimously .
after the vote , we returned to the campsite and began setting up a warm reception for our nightly visitor .
the first thing we did was move our tents away from the fire .
in fact , we actually moved them some distance so they backed up to sheer rock face behind us that stretched up about 60 feet .
with that cliff at our back , it cut our defensive perimeter in half .
we spent a good deal of the morning chopping brush so we had clear fields of fire for our paint ball arsenal .
each paintball marker was taken apart , cleaned and reassembled and we made sure every air tank was charged .
in the center of our line of tents we dug out a pit .
of course , we could not dig it very wide or very deep in just one day , so we set up a heavy tarp weighted at the sides .
using bent saplings we spring loaded the tarp to pitch over and trap anything that fell into the pit .
toby begged a couple of old burlap bags that hondo had in his chuck wagon .
he spent some time weaving them with twigs and twine .
at either end of the tents we dug two spider holes and these two ghillie covers were perfect camouflaged tops .
after all the digging and weaving , we threw on our cut off shorts and headed over to the ridge , east of the camp to check some feeding stations .
back tracking our marathon run of the previous evening , we found our fishing gear right where we left it .
boy , i was angry as i gathered up my stuff !
my palms and knees were scraped up and scabbed over and my back was bruised from the fall .
every time i bent over it hurt and that just made me madder .
we were all hot , dirty and angry .
we needed to take a break to clean up , cool off and get our perspective back .
so , after we gathered up our fishing equipment , we found a deep hole in the little stream with a clean rocky bottom .
it was not large but boy was it cold .
it felt like the snow on top of the mountain had just melted and was trickling right down to us .
for an hour we jumped and splashed and had the best time ever .
charlie kept ducking under the water and swimming down to the bottom where it was coldest .
before long his skin was white and his lips were blue .
he finally had to crawl out on a large rock slab nearby so he could shiver in the sunshine .
freddie kept turning over rocks , until he caught a couple of reddish orange salamanders .
he named one zach and the other cody .
shad built a little raft by weaving willow sticks together , but neither zach nor cody fancied the sweet life onboard it .
they kept diving off the raft and swimming like small orange alligators into the cold clear water below .
the chill of the water was like an anesthetic for my scrapes and bruises .
i quit worrying about them and settled down to making a really excellent squirt pistol by cupping my palms and fingers together .
soon , bogdon , toby and i were involved in a squirting war that i won hands down .
once , they realized they were outclassed , my two opponents surrendered and all three of us ganged up on charlie .
he was laid out in the sunshine with his eyes closed and we kept seeing who could squirt water up his nose .
refreshed , clean and ready to eat a horse , the rangers finally headed back to camp .
my tennis shoes gurgled and splurted water as i slowly wandered down the same hill i had fled down the night before .
i caught thors eye .
no more running ?
no more , he said .
from here on in we stand and fight !
thor and i high fived with gusto .
tonight was going to be different !
returning to camp , we found hondo had a dinner laid out that was certainly up to his previous standards .
the menu consisted of venison slow roasted with onions , potatoes and carrots .
hondo stirred up a nice brown gravy to top the meat and vegetables .
he also supplied a half dozen loaves of toasted garlic bread .
sitting around the campfire eating , shad got curious .
what is venison ?
i dont think ive ever had it before ?
freddie couldnt wait to answer that question , its deer meat .
deer meat ?
you mean like bambis mother ?
shad asked .
thats right , freddie smiled .
cool !
shad exclaimed .
hey hondo , can i get a piece with horns ?
like hungry grasshoppers we devoured everything hondo put in front of us .
then , he topped himself by pulling out an old crank freezer .
we sat around the campfire cranking out homemade orange sherbet that was made from genuine orange crush soda .
we all took our turns spinning the silver cylinder in the vat of salted ice and water .
when the sherbet finally hardened , hondo appeared with a scooper and a large box of ice cream cones .
everybody had at least three orange sherbet cones even hondo .
the sherbet was a cool end to a warm day .
after finishing up the ice cream , we cleaned up the dinner dishes .
we needed an extensive wash up to get melted orange sherbet off our hands , faces and hair .
once everything was put away , we thanked hondo for another memorable meal and headed for our tents .
but tonight , we were not heading off to sleep .
because bogdon did not have a tent partner , part of his tent was being used as a storage area for the club .
the insides of the big egg had been scattered about on the tent floor while bogdon , charlie and toby studied them .
but , since we had more pressing problems this evening , we gathered all the high tech parts and put them into a large canvas duffle bag .
plates that were removed from the egg were screwed back into place and we rolled the empty shell into the corner .
with plenty of space to work now , we unlocked our army surplus footlocker and started pulling out our night vision equipment .
the footlocker had a fresh coat of paint and was covered with warnings like fragile and electronics and the inside contained special padding for delicate instruments .
in anticipation of this trip , we purchased some new top of the line hands free goggles .
these were the kind that strap on to your head and the optics stick out in front of your face like some insect apparatus .
each eye is covered with its own eyepiece , but the two are joined in a y shaped connector to a single green night scope sticking out front .
we tested our gear and checked our batteries .
then , each of us grabbed a semi automatic paintball marker gun and dialed up the pressure for extra range and maximum impacting power .
one by one , we killed the lights in each tent and moved into our forward positions .
thor and i were stationed in the spider holes on each end of our row of four tents .
we sat two man teams inside of tents 2 and 4 .
the teams were bogdon and shad , and toby and freddie .
of course we split shad and freddie up because we knew that together they could not stay quiet for any length of time .
charlie manned tent 3 , using a night vision scope with higher powered optics for extreme range .
the waiting was the hardest part .
every ten minutes we had to respond to charlies im so he could be sure that no one had fallen asleep .
by the time charlie sent out the message marking our first hour on watch , i was getting pretty stiff in my cramped hole .
i began wondering if our nocturnal visitor was going to lay off for the night .
fifteen minutes later we caught some movement from the tree line directly across from the chuck wagon .
but it turned out to be a couple of large possums searching for leftovers .
as boredom set in , bogdon and toby started playing chess in their heads .
they sent out ims for each move .
shad started sending out knock knock jokes .
i was afraid that he might send something really funny that would make us laugh out loud .
but , i did not have to worry .
we did have stifle a couple of groans though .
finally , after about two hours we got a visitor .
movement at 10 oclock , charlie imed .
i raised the cover on my hole a little higher and peeked out slightly left of center .
sure enough , within a few seconds i could make out something large moving out of the trees towards our camp .
whatever it was , it moved slowly and deliberately across the field .
it gave me a chill to realize that it was stalking us !
i was glad that we had taken the time to prepare an adequate reception .
the creature approached the glowing coals of the camp fire which provided us with enough ambient light to see detail .
it was large .
it walked hunched over on two feet .
and , then it turned in our direction .
we saw something that scared the tar out of us .
it has the head of a cat ! !
! , toby sent .
we watched the creature circle the campfire , and i began to wonder about the wisdom of actually confronting it .
then i noticed something strange .
the wampus cat had a stick with something on the end of it .
he was pushing it into the soft ground as he moved .
whats it doing ?
i broadcast .
hes making tracks , charlie replied .
the creature pulled something out of his back pocket and used it to rip up the canvas back of one of our camp chairs .
what was going on here ?
the wampus cat started heading toward our tents .
with each step , it pushed its track making stick into the ground .
it was halfway to our location when we got another urgent message from charlie .
fake head !
imposter !
fake head !
when the wampus cat approached within 50 feet of our position , i was able to make out what charlie had seen .
the wampus cat was definitely a man wearing some sort of costume that appeared to be a skin with a stuffed cat head on top .
we got another message from charlie .
get ready about 20 feet in front of our tents , the fake wampus cat stopped and put his hand to his mouth and let out a feline snarl that i recognized from my previous encounter .
then he reached into his pocket and pulled out something and started unscrewing the top .
now ! ! !
i popped the top off my hole and started shooting as fast i could pull the trigger !
and , i was not the only one .
we all came out firing and the wampus cat was in our cross hairs .
we were using glow in the dark paintballs mixed in with our regular ammunition so it gave a really neat tracer effect as we fired .
i could see several trails of paint balls moving through the darkness , converging on our intruder .
ow !
dang !
quit !
stop !
the creature was taking some heavy fire and quickly turned its back towards us .
dropping the track making stick , it ran around in circles looking for some cover .
the cat head fell off as he dived for the only bush in the area .
that , of course , was the bush that we placed on top of the pit we dug .
woahh ! !
! , he yelled as he fell face first into the big hole .
just like we planned the saplings that were bent back , sprang forward and threw the heavy weighted tarp over the top .
and , we had caught ourselves a wampus cat .
all the commotion did not go unheeded throughout the rest of our camp .
i saw a light come on in the chuck wagon .
within a few seconds hondo came running over carrying a lantern and something else besides .
what in tarnation are you boys up to over here ?
i swear it sounds like world war three startin up .
toby had switched on a small battery powered lantern .
with the light it provided he was able to walk over and pick up the intruders discarded costume .
he lifted up what looked like a stuffed mountain lion head with an attached pelt .
we caught the wampus cat !
toby said triumphantly .
by this point , thor and i had climbed out of our positions .
we joined the rest of the rangers gathered around the pit where something was still struggling under the tarp .
as we pulled off our night vision goggles , i took a deep breath .
there was a terrible odor in the air .
yuck , said freddie .
what the heck is that awful smell ?
charlie reached down and picked up a small glass bottle .
trapper bobs skunk essence , he read out loud .
fake skunk smell .
fake cat costume .
im thinking you boys captured a fake wampus cat .
but , just to be on the safe side i better double click him .
double click ?
asked freddie .
yep , hondo replied .
that means i am gon na cock both barrels on my shotgun !
he moved over to the hole .
well , i guess we better let old maynard bart out of your wampus cat trap , hondo said .
thor , charlie and i grabbed the ropes attached to the weighted canvas cover .
with a coordinated heave ho , we unwrapped our captive .
it was indeed mr. bart .
howd you know it was him , hondo ?
asked shad .
were you in cahoots with this pole cat ?
no shad .
i just put two and two together and got four .
yesterday when i went down to the general store for extra supplies , i ran into bart here loading up 50 lb bags of sugar .
he had a least half a dozen he was putting into an old wheelbarrow .
i figured right then and there that he was making something up on that ridge that he wanted to keep us away from .
thats why he pretended to be the wampus cat .
he was hopin to scare us off before you boys stumbled onto his secret while you were out fishing or counting raccoons .
what was he doing with 300 lbs of sugar ?
does he have a secret bakery ?
asked shad hopefully .
oh , he was cookin something .
but , it wasnt pies and cakes .
hondo paused and then he explained , when a man is carting sugar into these mountains , its a pretty safe bet that hes cooking corn liquor .
with his hands in the air , mr. bart climbed out of the pit .
the big man looked awfully sheepish after being caught red handed .
paint balls splatters covered his hat and clothes .
his face and beard were also streaked with glowing yellow smudges .
in the first unexpected volley he had lost his grip on the bottle of skunk smell and spilled it all over himself .
he was ripe !
standing downwind and staring into hondos two barrels , mr. bart admitted that he was the wampus cat .
after apologizing repeatedly he alibied for himself .
im just a poor fella trying to make a living in these tough times .
and you have a still up on the ridge ?
where you make alcohol ?
prompted bogdon .
aye , i do .
but its mostly as a cure for rheumatism .
you could say its just a home remedy i make for myself and a few friends .
mr. bart pleaded with hondo , you arent going to call the sheriff on an old man whos just trying to help his neighbors are you ?
the way i see it , it aint up to me , hondo replied .
these boys caught you .
they kin decide what to do with you .
while hondo watched the prisoner , the rangers huddled up for a quick meeting .
it did not take us long to decide mr. barts fate .
charlie announced the verdict , as president of the granite falls rangers , i can tell you that the club has decided to set you free on one condition .
whats that ?
asked bart .
ill do anything you ask .
well , said bogdon .
we want to see your still .
of course mr. bart agreed to our request .
he told us the exact location of his still and the best way to hike across the ridge .
we told him that we would stop by tomorrow or the next day .
he was so relieved at being sat free mr. bart even gave us the mountain lion skin he wore when he impersonated the wampus cat .
thanking us again and again he walked off into the darkness , still glowing a little from multiple paintball splatters .
as he disappeared in the distance we gathered up our gear and took it back to bogdons tent to put it away .
hey guys , wheres the night vision footlocker ?
i asked .
i searched around the tent but it was nowhere to be seen .
its not here .
toby looked up and added , wheres the egg ?
we were too tired to think straight and now we discovered the egg and our footlocker were both gone .
we were puzzled .
but , our bedrolls were calling , so we went to sleep .
it was the next day before we had a chance to sit down and contemplate what had happened .
we reviewed the facts the next morning , and they were perplexing .
we had last seen the footlocker and the egg right before we took up perimeter positions protecting our camp .
seven sets of eyes with the finest night vision gear available were scanning the approaches .
no one fell asleep .
no one left their station .
yet , someone or something had managed to penetrate our tightest security precautions , come into our tents and make off with two large and bulky items and disappear .
we did not see them .
we did not hear them .
we had no idea who they were .
we adopted a spiral pattern as we searched for any signs of the intruders .
for two hours we examined the area , sometimes on our hands and knees .
we found lots of suspicious things but they all turned out to have been made by someone in our own group .
but , sometime around midmorning we caught a break .
freddie was searching along the cliff face behind our camp and came across a definite foot print in a muddy low spot against the rock .
the foot print was new because some of the grass was still crushed down .
charlie followed up this discovery with a particularly surprising clue .
he identified a muddy spot on the cliff face above .
we have to accept it , toby stated .
someone repelled down that rock in complete darkness .
they snuck into our tents .
they located the egg .
then they took the egg and our footlocker up the side of the cliff , in the dark , without being spotted or making a sound .
maybe it was mr. bart , freddie suggested .
maybe he circled around after he walked off .
then , he climbed the mountain and repelled down and found the stuff freddie did not even finish his statement .
he realized halfway through that it was too absurd to contemplate .
there was no way the maynard bart could have done this .
especially not in the 5 minutes between our letting him go and our returning to the tents .
maybe theres a real wampus cat , shad said .
or maybe some other ghost lives in these mountains .
it has to be something , because i dont think a regular man could have done this .
not in the dark .
not without our hearing or seeing something !
toby agreed .
shad is 100 right .
no regular man could have done this .
it is impossible .
so , do you think it was a ghost ?
i asked .
well , said toby .
sherlock holmes says when you have eliminated all which is impossible , then whatever remains , however improbable , must be the truth .
so , yes , i think we are looking for a ghost .
in fact , i think we are looking for a whole squad of ghosts .
whoever did this is way outside of anything we have ever encountered .
they took the egg and when they realized we removed the insides , they took our footlocker too .
after all , it was labeled fragile and electronics and it was locked .
charlie added , i bet they were surprised when they got the footlocker open and it was empty .
yeah , said bogdon .
but , that means they are probably coming back tonight for rest of it .
well , how do we stop them ?
i asked .
how do you catch a ghost ?
charlie smiled broadly and gave me a simple answer , the same way you catch santa claus , he said .
you hide under the christmas tree .
our camp was already set up .
our spider holes were dug .
our positions were all ready to go .
so , there wasnt much preparation necessary for catching our ghost .
bogdon and toby did set up one piece of juicy bait .
after studying the eggs insides for two days , they were pretty sure which part was the homing signal .
the crash to earth had jarred loose the battery connection and it was not broadcasting .
they reconnected the battery and it started beeping and blinking .
as darkness fell , we polished off more spectacular hondo yarnell cuisine .
then we retired to our tents and strapped on our night vision gear .
thor and i returned to our holes and put our covers on .
the rest of the guys took up their positions inside .
bogdons tent was empty except for the large canvas duffle bag filled with electronics .
the drawstring was left untied on the end and it emitted a barely audible beep .
charlie imed everyone eyes front no peaking we didnt have long to wait .
we were deliberately not watching the cliff so we did not actually see the four man team come scaling silently down the 60 foot drop .
of course , with their own night suits and intricate camouflaged paint they would not have been visible to the naked eye .
silent as a panthers and as deadly as cobras , the mystery men unclipped from the ropes that disappeared upward into the darkness .
their leader checked the small tracking device he was carrying .
using only hand signals , he pointed his men toward the correct tent .
with a practiced stealthy move , the point man peaked into the window .
when he confirmed it was empty he used his hands to open up the small slit he had made in the back of the tent the night before .
the leader motioned for his two outside teammates to keep a sharp lookout .
then he and the electronics expert slid into the tent through the entry way being held open for them .
once inside , they pulled our footlocker in behind them .
the leader held up a dark grey tube and snapped on the filtered red flashlight beam .
he shined it on the duffle bag and motioned for the electronics expert to open it up further .
freddie imed us all theyre here without a sound , the electronics expert looked inside the open end of the duffle bag .
his training stood him in good stead when he found himself staring into the pair of bright shining eyes that were peering back .
in the dark green world of night vision , he could not know the eyes were blue and the hair was shocky red .
but , he could make out the ears that stuck out at a 90 degree angle that belonged to granite falls smallest ranger .
hey guys , said freddie .
whats new ?
i guess you really dont want to startle a trained killer .
even if he is using restraint , at the very least he may wrap you up like a pretzel .
thats why we picked freddie , our least threatening ranger , to man our trap .
he is the smallest club member , but he has the biggest and friendliest smile .
he also fit into the duffle bag .
when warrant officer charlie estevez , usna was startled that evening , at least his response was not lethal .
hot damn and holy bleep !
the seal exclaimed .
who the bleep are you ?
and thats how the company a of the granite falls rangers met seal team bravo of the united states navy .
the mission of the seal team was , of course , to retrieve the insides of the big egg .
it was partly a training mission .
rather than just drive up and ask if we had their top secret military hardware , they looked at this as an opportunity to practice their craft .
they were going to infiltrate our camp , grab the egg and sneak out unobserved .
it worked like a charm the night before .
but , they pushed their luck when they came back two nights in a row .
the ghosts were made up of seals from team bravos training or green team .
they were new to the team and needed an opportunity to hone their skills .
the non lethal challenge of our little campsite seemed like the perfect time and place .
after all , the seals saw we had prepared positions and were night vision equipped .
the missions were recorded by a telephoto equipped night vision cameras on the cliff above , for playback and critique when they returned to base .
incidentally , they had some great video of our capture of the wampus cat the night before .
when freddie imed ollie , ollie in come free we came out of spider holes and tents to meet our visitors .
hearing the buzz of ropes and pulleys we looked up at the cliff just in time to see four more seals repelling down the rocky face .
the seals training officer and the rest of the evaluation team were coming to our little makeshift party .
after introductions all around , we invited our guests over to the campfire .
hondo was already adding a few logs to build up the blaze , so we removed our nv gear .
he brought out cold sodas and a cherry cobbler he had cooked earlier , in anticipation of guests .
we sat around the fire and debriefed together for about an hour .
the seals training officer , lieutenant wong , explained the seals operational plan .
then , charlie and toby went over what we observed from their first mission and how we set our santa claus ambush .
after dessert was finished , we got up from the fire and walked back to the cliff face .
the seals buckled their harnesses onto the climbing ropes .
after getting a thumbs up signal from his team , the lieutenant gave a short command over his radio .
suddenly , there was a whirring sound and seven of the black clad figures launched up into the darkness , reverse repelling up the hill .
the seal lieutenant shook each of our hands and then rechecked the connection to his rope .
finishing his preparations he looked back to us .
you know , he said .
because of your ambush , there are going to be some red faces around our command for quite a while .
we did not mean to cause any trouble , charlie apologized .
we just wanted to have some fun .
dont apologize , boys .
you did these new seals a favor .
they come to our team feeling like they are invincible .
in our line , thats dangerous thinking .
i have spent the last three months trying to knock the smugness out of them .
you boys did it in one night .
i want to thank you for that .
then he got serious .
seals have to be ready for anything .
the next mission these men go on , if they walk into an ambush they sure wont end up sitting around the fire eating cherry pie .
the lieutenant smiled , we always need good men .
be sure and look us up when you get out of school .
he spoke into his radio and just before the whirring started , he threw us a salute .
then , his rope grew taught and he flew upwards into the darkness .
that was the night that i learned to believe in ghosts .
the final few days of our expedition were wonderful .
each day we counted raccoons for hildagrune .
then , we fished and hiked and swam and played paintball and capture the flag until late into the night .
we also stopped by and visited mr. barts still .
it was just the other side of the ridge from the trout stream .
he was proud as a papa as he showed off the big pot with its copper coil stretching up and over .
while we were there , he heated up a batch of sour mash and demonstrated how he distilled it into moonshine .
bogdon brought out a thermometer and began taking measurements that he recorded in his blackberry .
afterwards he and toby went through some calculations with mr. bart .
as a result of this discussion , the moonshiner lengthened his coil and increased its angle for an immediate increase in the alcohol yield .
mr. bart gave us a sample of his work to take back to our laboratory in granite falls .
toby and bogdon were excited about the possibility of using it for some fuel cell experiments for next years science fair .
at the mountain mans suggestion , we also brought back a jar for hondo to keep in his chuck wagon , for medicinal purposes .
i have one question , mr. bart , asked shad .
did you make up all that stuff about the wampus cat ?
i mean the part about you hearing the snarl , smelling the foul odor and finding the shredded carcasses ?
honestly ?
mr. bard answered .
ive roamed these parts for almost fifty years .
and yes , that story is real .
i have seen signs and heard things .
i am sure the wampus cat exists and i believe it stalks the the blue ridge .
i believe it may be the deadliest creature that ever roamed these mountains .
we stood quiet for a second wondering about the mountains and if there really was a wampus cat .
toby finally broke the spell .
i dont know if the wampus cat exists , toby stated .
but , i do know ive met some ghosts on this trip .
and , i think they truly are the deadliest creatures to ever roam the blue ridge or any other location for that matter .
he paused for a second , im just glad they are on our side .
and every single ranger nodded in agreement and smiled .
rescue at pickle curve a long time ago , i guess when i was in kindergarten grandpa gus taught me three simple rules for survival .
he said when life sneaks up behind you and holds your head under water these rules are your best hope to keep on breathing .
1 .
trust in yourself .
2 .
trust in your friends .
3 .
whatever else you do dont panic !
oh .
and , then there is point number 4 which is not really a rule , but more like a cosmic observation .
4 .
when you get swept away in the uncontrollable flow over niagara falls , you might as well enjoy the view on your way down .
it was a beautiful saturday morning in late spring , and the whole ranger club was taking part in charlie sinclairs latest community outreach initiative .
he volunteered us to spruce up the hiking trails in the more remote sections of memorial park .
a reporter from the granite falls gazette was supposed to come take our pictures for one of those teenagers doing good deeds stories that the paper likes to feature on the back page .
but , at the last minute we were bumped when a local brownie troop decided to have a hop scotch marathon to fight world hunger .
how are you going to compete with that ?
anyway , our mountain bikes were loaded down with picks , shovels and other clean up items .
so , we rode them around the trails of memorial park until we came to an overgrown or washed out section .
then we would dismount , gear up and attack the thicket or rebuild the road bed .
team work was the key .
with only hand tools and elbow grease some of the sections we came across seemed awfully daunting .
but , working together , with all the rangers pulling in the same direction , it was amazing how quickly the trail shaped up .
and , when we finished a section we felt a sense of pride that our blisters and sweat yielded tangible results .
the sun was directly overhead and wed been working for the better part of four hours .
there was a chilly fog when we started around 7 30 that morning .
but the mists were a distant memory now .
the temperature was climbing fast and we were hot , dirty and hungry .
we were already looking forward to calling it a day .
charlie promised us that at noon we would pack up and the club would pay for a trip to wongs golden dragon for the all you can eat chinese food buffet .
we couldnt wait to see the expression on mr. wongs face when shad walked through door .
mr. wong has a great appreciation for shads ability to consume .
once he spotted us walking down the sidewalk and pretended that shad was godzilla coming to eat tokyo .
on another occasion he put out the closed sign and lowered all the window shades when he saw us walking by .
the last time we stepped into to the buffet line , mr. wong came over and handed shad a candy bar saying , here .
ruin your appetite .
charlie leaned on his shovel and pulled a red bandana out of his pocket and wiped his face .
well guys , i think we have done a fair mornings work .
according to my count we have filled in three washouts , cleared half dozen fallen trees and cut back a boat load of overgrown scrub .
its time to call it a day !
we gave out with a grateful cheer .
work was over .
we had given it our best shot and felt good about all that we accomplished .
now we could finally relax .
unfortunately , fate had a different plan in store for us .
we were about to discover the reality of grandpa gus three simple rules up close and personal .
ill never forget what happened next .
that moment is still frozen in my mind like one of those giant jurassic bugs preserved in amber .
if i shut my eyes i can go right back there .
i can still hear the crash .
i can still see the pained look on everybodys faces .
i can still experience that sick feeling when the bottom suddenly dropped out of my stomach .
the funny thing is the sound was not really that spectacular .
from our position a quarter mile away , it was like somebody slammed a door really , really hard .
and the door slam was followed by a sound like a big metal garbage can crashing down a stairwell .
then , for what seemed like an eternity but was probably only seconds we heard the smashing and grinding of metal careening down the mountainside .
finally , there was silence .
it was a deep overwhelming silence and we just stood staring at each other with blank faces .
we struggled to absorb what just happened .
we recognized the only possible explanation for the noise we had heard .
but , i think we were too stunned to accept it .
finally , freddie gave a voice to what we all knew had happened .
i think someone just drove off pickle curve .
pickle curve is a deceptively sharp bend on mountain trail road , just northwest of memorial point .
as you travel north on mountain trail , the curve is on a down slope just after a little rise .
you cant see over the rise , so the combination of the sudden turn and the quick decent comes as a real surprise .
it got the name pickle curve because in the early sixties a delivery truck for the mt .
olive pickle company took the turn too fast and rolled over , spilling several tons of pickles all across the roadside .
for my whole life every time i ever heard someone speak of pickle curve they always finished with the sentence someday , someones going to get killed driving off that road .
so without consciously thinking about it , i was not surprised when the words just rolled out of my mouth .
i guess todays the day .
our mountain bikes were the perfect vehicle to get us over to the accident site and we were there minutes after the crash .
we came tearing up an old game trail and we could see the wreckage lying off to the right just the other side of a patch of mountain laurel .
charlie is the fastest cyclist and he got up the trail first .
he did not even slow down as he approached the mountain laurel .
if anything he speeded up as he left the path and plowed directly into the bushes .
follow me guys , we heard him yelling .
just blast on through where i did .
theres nothing but a few branches in the way .
thor got their second and he smashed through like a stunt junkie .
i made it through in third place .
toby , bogdon , freddie and shad came through behind me in that order .
what we saw was not very promising .
it was a small black four door sedan .
now , it was a smaller black four door sedan .
the top was pan caked down and the car was much shorter than it had once been .
it must have been traveling at a high rate of speed because it had careened a good hundred yards down the side of the mountain through some very thick brush .
we could actually see tire tracks running almost straight down the hillside for a good fifty yards .
at that point the car must have hit a boulder or a deep gulley because thats where it flipped and turned sideways .
from there it must have rolled over and over dropping several hundred feet in elevation .
it finally came to a stop against a massive white oak , upside down and with an avalanche of debris covering the up slope side .
the cars radiator was still hissing when i got to the scene .
charlie was already trying to get into a window .
he was leaning over , digging through the loose dirt like a dog .
with a rotating motion , he shoved his hands into the ground and spraying the dirt out between his legs .
it was not long before he removed the debris around the collapsed passenger door .
getting down on his stomach , charlie reached through the six inch opening that had once been much larger .
i can feel someone , he shouted out in excitement .
hello ?
hello ?
can you hear me ?
are you all right in there ?
we held our breath and prayed silently , until we heard small pained female voice .
help us !
please help us !
its dark .
i cant move .
i think my moms hurt real bad .
dont worry , charlie assured her .
we are getting help .
just hang on .
please hurry , said the girl .
by that time everyone had arrived at the crash site and we huddled up around our club leader .
we need to get help right now , charlie commanded .
we must contact 911 , and get a wrecker and an emergency medical team .
and , it looks like it will take the jaws of life to cut through the wreckage .
bad news , toby replied .
we are out in the sticks and behind a mountain .
my cell phone is not getting any signal at all .
without missing a beat charlie made a presidential decision .
someone is going to have to go for help .
thor , youre the fastest .
do you have your cell phone with you ?
right here , thor responded holding it up .
good , said charlie .
take your bike and push it up the mountain to the road .
i know thats almost impossible terrain .
but , you are going to have to do your best .
lives are depending on you when you get to the road , see if you get a signal .
if not , then youre going to have to bike your butt down the road towards town .
then , after you make contact , ride back to the curve so you can direct the rescue party to our position .
now go !
charlie said , slapping thor on the back .
thor never even hesitated .
he ran over and picked up his heavy mountain bike .
holding on to the handles with two hands he pushed it on a diagonal , full speed up the hillside .
within seconds he crashed through another set of mountain laurels and disappeared into the brush .
you realize it could easily be an hour before help arrives ?
said toby .
and , it could be another hour cutting into the wreckage to free the victims , bogdon added .
do you guys have a suggestion ?
charlie asked .
cause right now , i can not think of any way that the six of us can manhandle that car back over on its bottom .
well , said toby .
i think pythagoras said give me a lever long enough and i will move the world .
shad interjected , actually , archimedes said that .
and , it would work .
but , we would need at least a 20 foot steal lever to get that car over .
and theres nothing like that lying around here .
what about block and tackle , asked toby ?
if we had four pulleys and some strong rope , i think have enough muscle power , bogdon surmised .
i have an idea how we might be able to get some steal cable , i suggested .
if you can get the cable , maybe we can rig up some pulleys , said charlie .
freddie suggested , you know , theres that old cedar choppers cabin about a quarter mile north .
maybe we can find something useful there ?
good idea , said charlie .
freddie , you and shad head over to the cabin .
bring back a crow bar , rope , medical supplies .
anything that looks like it might be remotely useful , bring it with you .
charlie continued , i dont have to remind you that time is of the essence .
be careful .
but , be quick !
toby , bogdon and i will stay here and work on our pulleys .
now , lets go !
charlie ordered .
and we broke up our circle and each went about our assigned tasks .
just a minute , shad , i said before he and freddie could rush off .
have you still got those leftover fireworks in your saddle bags ?
yeah , shad replied .
ive been have been hauling them around since new years .
are you going to try and use them to signal for help ?
no , i replied .
but , i may need them to help cut some cable .
i dont know how you are going to do that .
but , you can have them if it will help .
shad unsnapped the saddle bags from the back of his bike and tossed them over .
then he and freddie mounted up and road off .
they quickly disappeared into the forest to the north .
i threw the saddlebags over my shoulder and ran over to my bike and unstrapped my pulaski axe .
with the axe and the fireworks , i jogged off on foot climbing strait up the mountain .
i think i am in pretty good shape for an average kid .
i mean , i am tall and trim and i get a lot of exercise .
but , trying to run up that mountain was a bitch !
pardon my french .
i remember just trying to keep my feet moving .
i held onto my equipment with my left hand and with my right i kept grabbing limbs and roots and bushes .
i grabbed anything i could get a hold of to pull me up or in some cases keep me from falling back down .
it was not long before i was huffing and puffing .
but , i just kept moving .
and under my breath i was praying the whole way .
once , about five feet up a steep rock stretch the small bush i was holding on to came out of the ground in my hand .
luckily , it was only a five foot drop to a nice strong ledge .
thank you , god !
i was scratched up and dirty by the time i made it up to mountain trail road .
but , i made it .
immediately , i headed south along the road , up to pickle curve .
i got there just in time to see thor pushing his bicycle up the last sharp cliff face to the road .
i dropped my equipment .
with my left hand i grabbed onto one of the timbers sunk into the ground for the restraining rail .
with my right hand i stretched out and grabbed the front wheel of thors bike .
pulling with all my might , i hefted the bike up those last few feet onto the road .
as i strained , i could not help marveling that thor climbed straight up carrying the blasted thing .
thor is a horse !
once i got the bike up , i held out my hand and brought thor over .
what are you doing here ?
he asked .
did charlie decide i needed help ?
no , i replied .
im just up here scavenging .
i came up to see if i could find some rope or cable .
oh , he said .
thor quickly lost interest in me and pulled his cell phone out of his pocket .
damn !
he cursed , still no signal .
thor looked over .
id love to stay and chat , but who knows how many miles i will have to ride before i can use the phone .
thor hopped onto his bike , threw me a salute and took off down the road .
thanks for the hand , he yelled back over his shoulder .
then , thor kicked it into gear and disappeared around the curve .
taking that opportunity to survey the roadside , i saw was that half of the first guard post had been ripped right off .
not only had the driver missed the curve , she had missed it by a mile !
i looked across and saw there were probably twenty five posts arranged to keep cars from going over the side .
several had been hit in the past .
there were gauges and scrapes in a couple toward the middle of the curve .
if the black sedan had hit in the center of these restraints there is no way it would have gone over the edge .
but , she missed them completely .
but , i did not have time to do a crash investigation just now .
i needed cable fast .
and , there was some right in front of my eyes .
each one of the wooden guard posts had a hole drilled through the center and a heavy woven steel rope ran through the middle .
of course , the question was could i chop through steel cable that was strong enough to stop an automobile ?
the answer was obviously no .
but , i had a secret weapon .
without wasting any time , i dug through shads stash of fireworks .
there were plenty of firecrackers , smoke bombs and some rockets that i know for a fact are illegal in this state .
but , i was not interested in those .
digging to the bottom , i pulled out packages of sparklers .
they were what i was after .
as quickly as i could , i removed the sparklers from a box .
hurrying over to the cable fastened to the last guard post , i wrapped the sparklers one by one .
they did not bend easily and in some places they cracked and the magnesium powder flaked off .
but , i was hopeful that i still had enough to do the job .
reaching back into the bag , i pulled out the long handle barbeque lighter that shad used for setting off his pyrotechnics .
i struck the lighter and held the end up against a sparkler .
at first nothing happened .
but finally that one sparkler began to spark and spit .
soon the other sparklers ignited where they intersected with the first one .
before i knew it , the entire group of sparklers was burning white hot between 1800 and 2000 degrees fahrenheit .
burn , you son of a gun !
i yelled .
and , i picked up my pulaski axe and got ready .
i was pretty sure that even at these temperatures it would not burn through the cable .
but , i hoped the heat would weaken the cable just enough .
as the sparklers burned , i saw the cable getting red .
aye yow , i yelled !
in one quick motion i brought the sharpened steel axe blade down on the cable .
i felt the blade bite deep into the weakened wire .
it went more than halfway through !
quickly , i bent the cable down the side of the post exposing the remaining steel threads .
i began whacking the wire again and again , in a blind fury .
after about ten solid whacks the cable parted .
so , i ran to the other end of the curve .
pulling the cable hand over hand through the holes in the guard posts , the end finally popped through .
i had close to a hundred feet on the ground in front of me .
getting out the rest of sparklers , i wrapped the other end of the cable .
once , again i ignited them with the lighter and once again they burned white hot .
then , with adrenalin pumping through my veins , i uncorked a powerful lumberjack swing .
and , i missed completely ! !
damn !
i cussed .
but i pulled the axe back over my shoulder and with both hands i took the hardest swing yet .
this time , i did not miss .
in fact , this time the steel axe blade sliced deep and severed the entire cable .
coiling the steel cable over my shoulder , i grabbed my axe and stepped through the now open space between two guard posts .
geronimo , i yelled , as i jumped off the road and onto the steep slope running down the mountain .
it was a lot faster going down the mountain than it was climbing up and in what seemed like no time at all , i was back at the crash site .
i returned to find charlie on his stomach , talking through the collapsed window .
what he was saying ?
what do you say to someone in a case like that ?
toby and bogdon were working vigorously on their bikes .
they had removed the rubber tires from all four wheels and were now attempting to figure out how to lash one bike upside down to the top of the car .
if we just had a hole in the bottom of the drivers door right about here , wished bogdon .
does anyone know how we can drill one with ?
i let the coiled cable slide off my shoulder , down my arm and onto the ground .
you need a hole ?
i asked .
stand back .
once again , feeling like paul bunyan , i grabbed my pulaski axe with both hands and swung like john henry .
the blade dug into the car door .
it went in so deep , i had to struggle to free the axe .
toby and bogdon stood open mouthed .
i had taken them by surprise .
but , toby quickly regained his composure and moved in to examine the door .
thisll do , he said .
there are some steel supports under the sheet metal , but jeep managed to come in between them .
he looked up at me .
good shot , jeep !
at that moment there was some crashing from the other side of the bushes .
suddenly , freddie and shad came sliding out .
freddie gave us an update .
the cabin was picked pretty clean .
but , we did find an old first aid kit .
maybe it will be of help .
we also found plenty of rotten rope and lots of garbage but no crow bars .
shad grabbed an old inner tube in case we wanted to cut it up and make some fasteners .
toby examined freddie and shads spoils .
great work , said toby .
that first aid kit could be a godsend if we can just get them out of there .
and , dont cut up the inner tube just yet .
jeep found some cable we can use instead .
besides , i have an idea how we might use it later .
freddy , toby continued , you are the best climber in the bunch .
do you think you can shinny up this oak to that first big branch ?
freddie looked up to the branch that was probably about twelve or fifteen feet up .
i can try , he said .
freddie really is a human fly .
but , unfortunately , he did not have his climbing spikes with him .
he had to get traction by digging his fingers into the bark of the tree .
after several tries , the highest he got was about nine feet .
we were at an impasse .
ive got an idea , said shad .
with a determined look on his face , shad walked over and picked up the coiled cable .
hand me that backpack , he said , pointing to the bag at bogdons feet .
bogdon picked up the knap sack and handed it over .
then , shad tied the cable end to the knapsack .
with the cable in his left hand , he began to twirl the backpack in his right like a cowboy would swing a lariat .
suddenly , shad released the backpack and it sailed up and over the oak trees lower branch .
with a firm grip on the cable , shad lowered the backpack down the other side of the branch .
freddie grabbed the backpack , untied the cable and made a loop .
after testing the knot , he slipped the wire over his shoulders and under his arms .
pull away !
freddie ordered .
shad took a firm grip on the cable .
then , he turned and walked away from the tree .
in one smooth motion , he raised freddie up to the huge branch .
like he was part monkey , freddie scampered up over the branch and took a seat .
then , he untied the knot and slipped cable back over the limb .
shad lowered the cable again .
this time , toby and bogdon fastened one of the tireless bikes on to the end .
shad pulled the bike up to freddie , who untied it and lashed the seat of the bike to the bottom of the limb .
freddie used the mountain bikes detached inner tubes to secure it into place .
he wound the tubes around and around the limb at least ten times .
i sure hope it will hold , said freddie .
it will , said bogdon confidently .
why are you so sure ?
asked toby .
because it has to , bogdon replied .
the four bike tires would function as four separate pulleys .
tying one end of the cable the tree limb , we looped the cable down over the back tire of bicycle attached to the car .
then , we pulled it back over the rear tire of the bike in the tree .
then , we dropped the cable back down and around the front tire of the bicycle fixed to the car .
finally , we repeated the looping through the front tire of the tree bicycle and freddie slid down the piece of cable hanging free and returned to the ground .
he had done his part .
we had just enough cable left to tie around a three foot long oak branch , we policed up from the crash site .
the branch enabled us to all grab onto a section and pull together .
it dangled like a crossbar about 5 feet above the ground .
our four pulley block and tackle was all set .
theoretically , if everything held together this would multiply our pulling force by a factor of four .
with 250 lbs of force we could lift a 1000 lb object .
of course , in this case we were not trying to lift the entire car off the ground .
we just wanted to pull one side up so we could push it back over .
conference time , said toby .
huddle up guys .
we formed a circle around toby and listened carefully to what he had to say .
this could be real dangerous .
if a cable snaps or a bike rim gives way , we could be seriously hurt .
so , my question is , are we going to go through with this ?
charlie responded , i promised mandy we would do whatever we could to help .
charlie must have found out the girls name while i was climbing the mountain .
he continued , i cant tell how badly her mom is hurt .
but , its a cinch that she needs medical help immediately .
unfortunately , i havent heard any sirens .
and , even if they got here right now , it could still be hours before they can get down the mountain and cut her out .
its a risk , said charlie .
but , i say lets do it .
charlie stuck his hand in the middle of the circle .
one by one , the rest of the rangers put our hands on top .
we were all in .
rangers , on three , said charlie .
one two three rangers ! ! !
as a group , we walked back to the cable .
shad stepped up and put his hands on the branch like he was going to do pull ups .
slowly , warned bogdon .
shad began to apply his weight to the limb .
the cable grew tight and the bicycle wheels creaked and moaned .
then he lifted his right leg off the ground .
nothing happened .
then , shad lifted his left leg off the ground .
there was more creaking and moaning , but still nothing happened .
bogdon and toby walked over and took hold of the limb .
bogdon was on shads right side and toby was on his left .
they began applying their weight .
there was more groaning and creaking .
but , nothing happened until little freddie walked up and put his hands on shads shoulders .
then , he climbed up shads back like a monkey .
its moving !
shouted charlie .
charlie and i hurried over to the passenger side of the car and put our shoulders against the metal .
pull !
yelled shad .
everybody groaned .
as the cable lifted up on the side of the car , charlie and i pushed with our legs .
and , the car began rising up on one side .
it moved slowly at first .
but then it picked up speed .
now it was a foot off the ground .
now , it was a foot and a half .
now two feet !
as the car came up , charlie and i got more leverage and could exert more force against it .
this made it come up faster .
but , we both knew if the pulley gave way now it would fall and crush our legs !
one , screamed charlie .
two , he yelled .
three !
heave !
we pushed and pulled with all we had in us and sure enough that car straightened all the way up on its side .
then , for a second it seemed to be in balance .
and then it began to lean over .
bammmm !
the car fell back over onto its wheels .
because , there was a pile of debris under the wheels on the upslope side , the flattened car was not perfectly level .
plus , that side was also sloping up the hill .
but , the vehicle was right side up .
charlie rushed to the window , mandy ?
mandy are you okay ?
im okay , replied a scared little voice from within the vehicle .
i am right side up and i can see light coming through the cracks .
can you get us out now ?
dont worry , charlie reassured her .
were working on it .
charlie walked back over to where we were standing .
do any of you guys have any more genius ideas ?
shad replied , if we had a giant can opener , we could cut that roof open .
once more a 20 foot steel lever would come in handy .
of course we did not have a giant can opener .
nor did we have a 20 foot steel lever .
so , we just stared at each other .
at least until freddie suggested the obvious solution that the rest of us had not even considered .
maybe theres a jack in the trunk ?
he said .
charlie hurried back to the car .
mandy ?
do you think you can get your moms keys out of the ignition ?
we need them to unlock the trunk so we can get the jack out .
i dont think so .
the roof has her pinned pretty tightly .
but , if i can find my purse , i have my set of keys in it .
a few seconds later she announced , here it is .
i think i can slide it through this small opening .
the brown end of a small clutch purse stuck out the window .
charlie grabbed it and tugged .
he had to slide it back and forth several times , but he finally got it out .
charlie brought the purse around to the back where we waited behind the trunk .
he snapped it open and pulled out a set of keys .
working quickly he began trying them one after another until he found the right one .
got it !
he said as the key turned .
but , the trunk was stuck shut .
at least it was stuck until shad pulled a spade off his bike .
shad stuck the blade in the trunk opening .
when he threw his weight against the spade the trunk lid popped up like a bagel in the toaster .
while removing the spare tire and the jack equipment underneath , we heard the first cheerful sounds of sirens and emergency vehicles in the distance .
thor had gotten through .
we knew he would .
at that point we were feeling pretty hopeful until we tried to put the jack beneath the crumpled roof .
it was too tight a fit .
the roof was crushed backwards and down .
the clearance was still a couple of inches too tight for the jack .
my turn , said toby .
toby picked up the inner tube shad and freddie had brought back with first aid kit .
when he pulled out his swiss army knife , i thought maybe he was going to puncture the tire .
but , instead , he used one of the blades to let some more air out of the partly deflated tube .
after a few seconds , toby slid the collapsed inner tube into the space between the cars rear window area and the roof .
then toby held up a can of fix flat that he had found in the cars trunk .
i am making a pneumatic jack , he announced to the team .
toby connected the fix flat to the rubber inner tube and pressed the button .
the inner tube began to re inflate .
at first it just spread out between the roof and the rear window ledge .
but , then an amazing thing happened .
the tire expanded upward and began to push the roof up with it .
thats plenty !
charlie exclaimed .
he had been holding the jack stand against the opening for a measurement .
clearly , there was now plenty of room to slide it in now .
toby flipped out another blade from his knife and began stabbing the tire .
it did not take long before it deflated again .
it also began to bleed the sticky green goo that must have been in the fix flat can .
as soon as we pulled the tube from the window , charlie jammed in the jack stand .
he attached the long handled bar and began turning the screw .
we were lucky enough to catch a steel cross beam in the roof and a fairly solid spot on the rear window ledge .
slowly and surely the roof began rising forming a tent like v. the roof rose up to about a foot while charlie turned the lever like a maniac .
but , it was not long before he started to tire .
toby realized it was time to switch , charlie , let shad and jeep take over .
you go check on the girl .
with some reluctance , charlie stepped back from the jack and began massaging his palms like they were cramping up .
meanwhile , shad took up position on one side of the handle and i stepped up to the other .
he grabbed the outside section and i took the inner part .
and , we began turning in unison .
he pushed and i pulled .
it was tough going , but together we raised the center of the roof up to about two feet .
finally , toby stopped us .
unhooking the handle and spinning the jack back down , he pulled the base out and spun it down some more .
the roof of the car was raised up in the middle .
next toby placed the jack base down on an outside section of the roof that was still smashed down .
shad and i took turns on the jack again .
this time , raising the roof seemed a little easier .
but , we were huffing and puffing before we had this section all the way up .
but finally , we had a crawl space big enough for someone to squeeze through .
charlie called through the opening , mandy .
can you lower your seat all the way and slide out through the back ?
ill try , replied the voice .
but , im having trouble moving my left arm .
we heard a thunk and a cry of pain as the seat flopped down hard .
with the light coming through the crawl space we could see the girl on top of the completely reclined head rest .
she was flat on her back and looking up at us .
her face was covered with blood and dirt and she was in obvious pain .
reach out your good arm , ordered charlie .
well help pull you through .
slowly the right arm extended and charlie squeezed in to reach it .
when he got a firm grip he started backing out .
the rest of us grabbed onto charlie and pulled .
easy does it , charlie ordered , as he guided the girls torso through broken glass and sharp metal edges .
slowly and carefully , she came sliding out of the car backwards .
a dozen hands were helping and as she emerged from the crawl space we lifted her over the trunk .
carrying the girl over into the shade of another large oak tree , we gingerly sat her down on the ground .
for the next couple of minutes toby and bogdon checked over our victim .
first , they called for water .
then they confiscated all the bandanas we had brought with us and used them as washcloths and for a make shift arm sling .
after cleaning up some lacerations , they bandaged the girls left arm .
there was no doubt she had a significant fracture .
let me sit up , she insisted .
then , against toby and bogdons advice , she struggled to a sitting position and we finally got a good look at her .
thats mandy jo ellsberg , freddie whispered in recognition .
shes head cheerleader at south caldwell high and i think shes thors cousin !
speak of the devil and up he jumps , charlie replied , pointing up the hill .
movement caught our eye and we realized it was thor slogging down the hillside with a couple of ems guys following closely on his heels .
before long , ems and fire crews made their way down to the crash scene .
they gave mandy another thorough once over , splinted her arm and used an immobilizing sling that held the appendage close to her body .
we explained to the fire captain how we righted the car and pried up the roof .
he was impressed almost to the point of disbelief .
but , the bicycles , the steel cable and the jack stand were proof of our exploits .
after examining remains of the sedan , the captain decided to try and remove mrs. ellsberg , thors aunt judy out the back window the same way that mandy jo had come through .
but , first they needed someone small to climb inside the wreck and attach a brace that would immobilize the victims neck .
of course , freddie dunkleberger volunteered for the job .
fearlessly , our little friend scrambled in through the collapsed window and applied the brace .
then he gently lowered mrs. ellsbergs seat into its fully reclined position and secured a rescue harness under the womans arms .
this allowed the rescuers to be pull out of the car .
minutes later mrs. ellsberg emerged she was still breathing barely .
the ems guys said she had a collapsed lung putting pressure on the heart .
so they inserted a very large needle directly into her chest to relieve the pressure .
thats when shad passed out .
mrs. ellsberg was stabilized but it was obvious that she needed to get to the hospital quick .
and , there was no time to try and lug her back up the mountain .
is there a clearing around here ?
asked the fire captain .
down this game trail about a hundred yards theres a small meadow , replied charlie .
then , im calling in the lifeflight chopper .
while the fire chief called for the helicopter on his radio and the other rescue workers secured mrs. ellsberg into a sled , we raced down to the meadow with our brush clearing gear .
for the next twenty minutes we hacked and chopped and expanded the clearing the best we could .
we did not quit until we heard that welcome thump , thump , thump of the lifeflight helicopter .
about that time , four firemen came walking down the path , each holding on to a different corner of the rescue sled .
we helped them spread out bright orange signal panels for the helicopter pilot to line up on .
after one set up pass , the pilot made an approach against a light wind that was blowing in from the east .
it was a tight fit .
and , it took a long time for the helicopter to lower itself into the clearing .
but we realized that if the chopper slammed into a tree it would not do anybody any good .
finally the helicopter was down and the firemen loaded mrs. ellsberg onboard while thor helped his cousin mandy onto the aircraft .
suddenly , the pilot hit the gas and we quickly stepped back out of the way .
instinctively , we ducked beneath the rotors , while covering our faces against the dust and debris kicked up by the wash. as the helicopter lifted off , all seven granite falls rangers stood besides the clearing and waved goodbye .
then suddenly it was over .
what may have been the worst and the finest hour of our lives came to an abrupt end .
and as the adrenalin began to wear off , we were hit by a wave of exhaustion .
staggering back up the trail to the crash scene , it was all we could do to flop down in the shade of the big oak .
as we sat there recuperating , the ems guys checked us all to make sure we were okay .
but , aside from some cuts and scratches from broken glass and scrub brush , we were fine .
after we got checked out , the firemen helped us load our equipment on to our remaining bicycles and we sat off down a deer path to one of the hiking trails we repaired earlier that morning .
several of the rescuers accompanied us , deciding it was easier to walk out to memorial park than to try and climb back up the mountain .
when we got back to the parking lot , we were met by a large group of rescue vehicles .
and , the firemen offered us a ride back to town on their big truck .
they even lashed our bicycles onto the sides next to the ladders .
then they started up engine and headed back for granite falls .
one by one , the firemen dropped us at our homes and our adventure came to an end .
as soon as thor relayed the news to his family , the entire munson family rushed to the hospital .
there , after many anxious hours , with the aid of an expert trauma team and an outpouring of prayer , mrs. ellsberg made it through a long night where things were touch and go .
but , by the next morning , the surgeons were optimistic .
her recovery might be a lengthy one , but the doctors agreed that mrs. ellsberg made it to the hospital just in the nick of time .
mandy jos outcome was much better .
her arm was broken in three places .
but , she was fixed up with a plastic cast in the maroon and platinum colors of south caldwell high .
within days she was back cheering the spartans onto victory .
so , things worked out fine after all .
we volunteered for a service project and ended up being of much more service than we ever dreamed of .
and , we did get our pictures in the paper after all .
and , grandpa gus rules proved truer than we ever would have imagined .
but , in all the confusion we never did make it to wongs golden dragon .
so , charlie sinclair has promised that we are absolutely , positively going to wongs for lunch next saturday unless , of course , life decides to throw us into another dangerous adventure along the way .
about the author matt musson was born in austin , tx and grew up in san antonio .
he earned two degrees at the university of texas and moved east to work for ross perot as a systems analyst .
he has developed systems for planters peanuts , lifesavers candies , sara lee , and bank of america .
matt is currently in north carolina developing banking software and working part time for the charlotte bobcats .
he has four incredible children skye , mcclain , granath , and chandler .
matt collects vintage rodeo belt buckles and indian jewelry when he is not prospecting for carolina gold and emeralds .
he is a contributing author to the non fiction anthology sports in the carolinas from death valley to tobacco road .
he has authored several jeep muldoon books including the mystery of merlins magic , the arrow that would not miss !
and whalequest !
in addition , he produced the critically acclaimed novel batboy on the worst team ever !
publishers weekly described the book saying there was perhaps a denzel washington movie in this novel .
sidney by ellie smith smashwords edition , license notes thank you for downloading this free ebook .
although this is a free book , it remains the copyrighted property of the author , and may not be reproduced , copied or distributed for commercial or non commercial purposes .
if you enjoyed this book , please encourage your friends to download their own free copy at smashwords.com .
support and respect for the copyrighted works of this author are greatly appreciated .
thank you .
the characters in this book are fictional products of the authors imagination .
resemblance to any person or persons , either living or dead , to any names used , or to any specific locations , events or locales is purely coincidental .
chapter 1 steve ? ''
a lanky , sandy haired man stepped out onto a long wooden porch and looked at the man who was standing near a trio of thirty gallon steel barrels .
yeah ?
them damned bears have been in the garbage again . ''
scott lyndon , the younger brother of the man coming toward him , picked up an empty cereal box and tossed it in one of the barrels .
how in the hell are they getting those lids off ? ''
i do n't know .
we 've tried everything short of padlocking them at night . ''
maybe we 'll have to resort to that . ''
steve lyndon raised deep blue eyes to the dense forest that covered the north hillside .
were going to have to think of something .
we do n't need any damned bears wandering into camp . ''
that 's for sure . ''
scott picked up the rest of the trash and threw it in the middle barrel then dropped the lid back onto it before snapping the clamps closed .
i 'm going go up and clear away that brush on the west slope so we can get in there with the trucks tomorrow . ''
take the rifle scott , '' steve lyndon told the brother that was almost four years younger than his thirty years .
one of the boys said theyve seen bear tracks up that way . ''
scott nodded then went toward the long , single story log structure that housed the office , kitchen and living quarters of the lyndons .
a wide porch fronted the entire structure .
back within minutes , scott lyndon was carrying a high caliber rifle in his hand .
i should be back in a couple of hours , '' he called over his shoulder as he headed for a blue four by four pickup that was sitting beside one of the out buildings .
fifteen minutes later scott lyndon pulled the truck to a stop near a large yellow bulldozer .
he grabbed the rifle and headed for the machine the pair had purchased five years earlier .
after slipping the rifle into a clip on the fender he fired up the dozer then swung it around and started up the hillside toward the dense underbrush .
the sloping hills that acted as the foothills for this section of the sierra mountains was the home of the lyndon logging company a privately owned firm , solely owned by steven and scott lyndon .
they were ecologically minded , removing only select logs from the forests which gave way for the smaller trees to grow .
this month , their task was to weed out the older trees from the west slopes of the sierras along the forty thousand acres they leased from the government .
it was interesting work and something both brothers loved .
scott steered the dozer into the edges of the underbrush .
today , he would make a path just wide enough to get their logging trucks through so they could reach the upper section of this side of the slope .
the path , made by two swipes of the dozers blade , allowed them less than two feet of clearance on either side of their trucks .
that was just enough to get the logs down off the steep hillsides and do as little harm as possible to the environment .
scott edged the dozer along the hillside carefully , pushing brush and rocks back to the point the two brothers had mapped out .
he was just finishing the first of section when , out of the corner of his eye , he saw something black rise up in front of the dozer .
scott looked up to see a massive black bear on his hind legs less than twenty feet ahead .
its front legs were outstretched and its teeth barred .
scott slammed on the brakes hard .
scott snapped the rifle out of the clamp and aimed it toward the animal .
if a situation like this arose , it was their usual procedure to fire a warning shot over the animals head .
that usually got their attention and the animal would wander off , allowing the work to continue .
scott brought the bear into focus on the scope then lifted the rifle ever so slightly , targeting a spot a foot or so above the bears head .
he eased his finger down onto the trigger slowly .
just then , out of his peripheral vision , scott caught a glimpse of something white a split second before something hit the barrel of the rifle , breaking his aim .
he blinked and when he looked at the bear again it was lumbering away into the heavy underbrush .
scott lyndon sat dumbfounded for a moment before he backed the dozer out of the brush .
he looked at where the bear had been standing to see something red in the bushes .
scott turned off the machine and , after listening for any sounds nearby , eased down off the bulldozer and , with rifle in hand , moved along the dirt to the red object .
it looked like a piece of nylon .
as he reached down to pick it up scott heard a low throaty growl and looked up to see the same black bear watching him from a small clearing less than fifty feet away .
scott straightened slowly and the bear stopped growling .
he started to reach for the material again but stopped when the bear began growling again .
hmm , '' scott pondered and straightened .
to his surprise , the bear stopped again .
ok , '' he told the bear and took a step back .
i 'll leave it alone . ''
slowly , scott backpedaled toward the dozer .
as he neared the dozer the bear took a few steps forward then stopped .
scott decided that maybe he had done enough bulldozing for today and climbed onto the dozer .
with the rifle back on the clip he started the machine and backed it down the hill , keeping one eye on the bear .
when he was about halfway down the hill scott saw the bear come forward and pick the nylon up in its teeth then disappear into the underbrush .
you 're back early , '' steve lyndon commented as his brother stepped into the large room that acted as a joint office and kitchen .
get into a fight with a bear ? ''
actually , yes . ''
what ? ''
scott put the rifle back in the closet as he told the story of what had happened .
that 's damned strange actions for a bear .
i wonder what that nylon was from . ''
i do n't know .
it looked old and weathered . ''
maybe an old flag marker ? ''
it was n't that shape .
it was more of a rectangle .
maybe ten by fifteen inches , and the edges were frayed .
what i want to know is what that white thing was and what hit the rifle . ''
a bird maybe ? ''
scott shook his head .
that was no bird .
if i didnt know better i would swear someone threw a rock .
theyd have to have pretty good aim to hit a rifle barrel .
yeah .
but i saw something off to my right , either in the underbrush or at the edge of it .
a split second later something hit the rifle .
it wasnt a sharp blow but it was enough to break my aim .
was the bear coming at you ? ''
no .
it seemed to be guarding that piece of red nylon .
damned strange , '' steve frowned .
maybe you 'd better take someone with you tomorrow morning when you go up and finish the road . ''
just after dawn the next morning scott and tal hardy , the yard foreman , went up to the western slope and within an hour had the entire road cleared .
they had no further encounters with the black bear .
it was two mornings later , as steve and scott lyndon came out of the cabin to see the lids off the garbage barrels again .
oh now this is getting ridiculous , '' steve grumbled and strode to one of the open garbage barrels .
i clamped these lids on tight last night .
there 's no way in hell a bear could have opened them . ''
scott looked into the three barrels as he gained a deep frown .
steve , '' he said and looked at his brother .
that bear 's being awfully damned selective . ''
he motioned to the nearest barrel .
the top of this barrel is unlatched and moved over slightly but nothing inside was disturbed . ''
he pointed to the newspaper he had tossed in it the night before .
so you 're saying they 're opening the barrel , looking inside then moving on without touching the contents ?
your fiction mind is getting the better of you brother dear . ''
maybe .
but i think there 's more to this than what we know . ''
chapter 2 scott lyndon rolled over and punched his pillow then buried his head in it .
damned insomnia , '' he cursed under his breath .
he shot a glance at the clock and sighed .
three thirty .
maybe a glass of milk would help .
he climbed out of bed and strolled down the long hallway that extended the full length of the ranch style log cabin to the kitchen .
with a glass of milk and two cookies in hand , scott sat down at the kitchen table and looked out the window at the full moon that was hanging in the night sky .
he studied it for a few moments before sliding his gaze downward casually .
he looked at the bulk of the yard that he could see through the window and thought it looked better in the moonlight than it did in the daytime .
he took a bite of cookie then a sip of milk as his gaze continued to wander lazily .
when he saw what looked like a dark shadow move in front of the bushes on the other side of the yard scott frowned .
what was that ?
he focused on the shadow until it disappeared behind a stand of trees .
moments later , it reappeared and moved further east .
scott lost track of it then found it again several yards east .
he watched it closely until it stopped at the trash barrels .
a bear .
he wished the moon were brighter as he watched the animal move along the trash barrels .
it sniffed the first one then the second one before stopping at the third .
scott looked at the three drums .
the first two were mostly paper and nonedible waste and the third contained food scraps .
he watched the bear rise up on its back paws and press down on the top of the lid , almost as if it were bouncing on it .
he watched the animal bounce its front paws on the lid several times before the strong latches gave way .
scott watched the bear slide its claws under the rim of the lid and slide it over to the edge before it fell soundlessly to the dirt .
well ill be damned , he said in less than a whisper .
just then a shadowy flutter of white came along the bushes and stopped beside the bear .
scott squinted and tried to see in the lacklight .
it looked and moved almost in ghost like fashion but he was sure it was not a ghost .
when the bear rose up on its hind legs again scott saw it dig into the drum as the white image disappeared behind the steel barrel .
scott ?
what are you doing up ? ''
scott shot a quick glance toward the doorway and recognized the faint shape of a shadow .
shhh , '' he hushed .
do n't turn the light on .
come here , '' he whispered .
he heard soft footfalls come up behind him .
what ? ''
look out by the trash barrels , '' scott whispered softly .
just watch . ''
he focused in on the shadows again and quickly found the bear .
it looks like our bear friend . ''
keep watching . ''
moments later , the white flutter moved out from behind the barrel for a few moments before it disappeared again .
see that ? ''
yeah .
what is that ? ''
i do n't know . ''
scott watched the bear dig into the drum again .
the bear seems to be digging in the barrel then whatever it pulls out that white image takes . ''
but what is that image ? ''
maybe a coyote ? ''
not likely .
steve frowned into the darkness .
i sat here and watched that bear bounce its front paws up and down on the lid of that drum until it gave way .
then he slid the lid over until it fell off the barrel onto the ground .
thats when the white image appeared .
a bear wouldnt need to feed a coyote , especially out of a trash barrel .
there 's one way to find out what it is . ''
i know , but i do n't want to turn on the yard light quite yet .
it 'd scare them away .
i was hoping to find out what it was without the light . ''
not much chance of that with the haze in the air tonight . ''
yeah . ''
the two brothers watched the images for several more minutes before scott stifled a yawn .
well , no chance , i guess . ''
he heard soft footfalls diminish and knew where his brother had went .
ready ? ''
yeah . ''
a soft click and the area surrounding the garbage drums was partially flooded with light from the light fixture that sat atop a thirty foot pole a few feet west of the steel drums .
instantly , the two images at the garbage can were illuminated by the light .
scott 's eyes widened sharply as the white image came into visual focus .
he caught the shocked expression on both images ' faces for a split second before they disappeared into the underbrush .
oh my god ! ''
he said in a hoarse whisper and felt a chill cascade through his body .
steve ?
did you see that ? ''
steve lyndon blinked then blinked again , his wide , shocked gaze still locked on where the images had been .
yeah , '' he said in a hoarse whisper .
it was a child . ''
the following morning , just after sunrise , steve and scott lyndon went out to the garbage drums .
they surveyed the open drum and the litter around it with deep frowns .
look at this , '' scott said as he pointed to the ground near where he had seen the child .
an array of bones and fruit peelings were scattered around the small area .
he picked up one of the peelings and examined it before handing it to his brother .
teeth marks , '' steve lyndon frowned at the distinct indentations in the peeling .
he sighed then tossed the peeling in the open barrel .
what in the hell is a child doing living out here in the forest ? ''
scott shook his head slowly as he picked up the litter and tossed it back in the drum .
i wonder , '' he said thoughtfully as he picked up another handful of peelings .
i wonder if that white thing i saw the other day could have been that child . ''
do you think so ? ''
i do n't know .
that red nylon might have been part of some kind of camping gear at one time .
scott looked at his brother .
maybe a backpack or a jacket .
it did have that kind of weight . ''
you might be on to something there little brother .
it also might explain how your rifle got hit . ''
protecting a friend ? ''
steve nodded .
we saw the bear digging in the drum .
it might have been digging out food and feeding the child with what it brought out . ''
the younger lyndon looked off into the underbrush .
i 've read about this kind of thing happening but it was always fiction .
i never thought it possible in real life .
we need to do something . ''
like ? ''
i do n't know .
well you cant exactly send it an invitation to supper , '' steve drawled a smile .
if that child is that close with the bear then you can bet it 's as wild as the bear is . ''
scott walked over to where the pair had disappeared into the underbrush the previous night and examined the thickets with a frown .
maybe that 's exactly what we could do . ''
you lost me . ''
scott turned .
invite it to supper . ''
and just how do you expect to do that ? ''
it comes down here foraging for food .
so , we leave food for it .
not scraps like it 's been eating , but real food . ''
steve lyndon nodded his approval .
sounds good .
it 'd sure beat the hell out of what it has been eating . ''
that night , just before they went to bed , scott made up a tray of food two apples , two peeled oranges and a couple of peanut butter and jelly sandwiches then took the tray out to the garbage drums .
he sat the tray on top of the third drum then went to bed .
the next morning , to his delight , all of the food was gone from the tray and the garbage drums were still locked .
looks like you 're on to something scott , '' steve smiled at the empty tray his brother brought into the kitchen .
sure looks that way , '' the younger lyndon said thoughtfully as he looked up at the distant hills .
chapter 3 for the next week , scott continued to leave a tray of food on the third drum each night and each morning he found the tray empty .
on the morning of the eighth day , scott rose a little earlier than normal and it was just before daybreak when he came out of the cabin .
he looked at the third drum .
the tray was there but there was something on the tray .
as he crossed the yard toward the barrels scott realized it was one of the apples .
as he approached the barrels scott saw something rise up from behind the drum and the apple floated up then disappeared .
scott stopped dead in his tracks and stared at the now empty tray .
just then he heard a low growl and almost immediately the white image , still shadowed by the dusky dawn light , flittered into view beside the drum and he saw the child run toward the underbrush and disappear into it with the bear at its heels .
he heard the rustle of the thicket and stood motionless until the sound had vanished into the warm morning air .
evidently the bear had been playing watchdog while the child ate .
he looked at the empty tray then stepped around the drum to see a partially eaten apple lying on the ground .
he picked it up and looked at it then sighed as he felt a pang of guilt for interrupting the child 's meal .
scott laid the apple on top of the third drum then returned to the house .
later that afternoon , he returned to the drums to find the apple was still there .
why had he thought the child would return ?
of course it would n't since there was always so much activity around the yard in the daytime .
he tossed the apple in the drum disgustedly then went back to the house .
the next morning scott and steve climbed into one of their logging trucks and headed for the north slopes where , the previous day , a number of trees had been trimmed out of the dense forest .
what 's that ? ''
steve asked when his brother laid a large sack on the floor of the cab .
insurance . ''
you 've become obsessed with that kid have n't you ? ''
not really obsessed , '' scott replied as he slid the high powered rifle into the clips that were attached to the dashboard .
just worried . ''
just do n't get your hopes up brother dear . ''
i refuse to see any kid , wild or not , go hungry or eat from a trash can . ''
i think you 've taken care of both of those concerns . ''
as the truck crossed the narrow stream and headed up the north slope scott caught a glimpse of something white in the underbrush ahead stop the truck , '' he told his brother .
steve hit the brakes and looked at his brother to see the man 's gaze locked on something ahead .
what ? ''
scott pointed to the thicket .
watch that underbrush on the right . ''
seconds later the flitter of white appeared for a moment then disappeared again .
you think it 's the kid ? ''
i do n't know , '' scott said as he grabbed the bag .
only one way to find out .
turn off the engine and keep that rifle handy . ''
scott had barely gotten past the front of the truck when he heard a low , throaty growl and saw the flitter of white again .
scott stopped dead in his tracks as a loud rustle came from the underbrush and moments later the child appeared and ran across the road toward the other side .
wait ! ''
scott was not sure why he had called out like that .
if the child was wild there was no way it would understand words .
but , to his shock , the child stopped .
he heard another low throaty growl and knew the bear was close by .
too close by .
scott took a deep breath as the child turned and he got his first look at the innocent and very frightened face .
a little girl !
her blonde hair was long and horribly tangled and looked like it might have been curly at one time .
she was wearing what seemed to be an adult t shirt or maybe a petticoat .
he held out the paper bag and said , food , '' and saw the child 's wide , fear filled eyes bounce to it .
when the low growl came again scott determined the bear was in the left underbrush and he moved slowly toward the spot where the little girl had appeared from the brush and sat the bag down then backed away .
food , '' he said again and saw her gaze dart to the bag then back .
he kept back peddling until he got to the front of the truck , his gaze never leaving the small face .
he saw her look at the bag again and he smiled then gave a slight nod .
it 's ok , '' he said in a gentle voice .
you can take it . ''
before he could blink he heard her make a low , rumbling sound in her throat and instantly the bear appeared out of the underbrush and stopped beside her .
scott 's eyes widened as the bear glared at him and he heard a low , throaty growl erupt from deep in the bear 's throat .
scott stayed motionless in hopes of not antagonizing either the little girl or her watchdog .
he saw her gaze jet to the bag and back again and he smiled .
food , '' he repeated and saw her take a step toward it .
he nodded .
it 's ok , '' he kept the gentle tone .
take it .
it 's for you . ''
in the blink of an eye the little girl rushed across the road , grabbed the bag in her small hand then ran back as the bear took a step toward the truck and growled again .
scott was sure the bear was only issuing a warning but it did not matter .
he had no intentions of moving .
when the little girl stopped beside the bear and looked at him scott was sure the faintest of smiles came to her face before she disappeared into the underbrush with the bear right behind her .
he listened to the rustle until it was lost in the light breeze .
only then did he return to the safety of the truck cab .
as he closed the door scott looked at the driver to see his brother 's eyes were the size of silver dollars and his face was ashen .
my god ! ''
the driver said in a hoarse voice .
that 's a little girl ! ''
scott looked at the place where the two had disappeared .
yeah , and then took a deep breath , releasing it slowly .
it took a lot of guts to face down a bear .
that kid has to eat .
if it takes facing down a bear again to see that she does , i will .
how old do you think she is ? ''
i 'd say maybe eight or ten .
she 's not very big . ''
i 'd have guessed about that age too .
i think i am going to do some digging on the internet this afternoon .
that little girl was n't born up here and if she 's only 8 or 10 then she has n't been up here all that long . ''
what makes you say that ? ''
because she understood what i said .
she did n't learn that from the bear . ''
but she was talking to that bear .
that would mean she 's been up here long enough to learn to communicate with it . ''
yeah . ''
the two men continued up the hill and picked up the logs .
when they drove back by the spot where they had seen the little girl , steve slowed the truck and they looked around but saw no sign of either the bear or the girl .
after they returned to camp scott went straight to the office and began his investigation .
he searched through every local paper 's archives , through the county archives and even the state .
find anything ? ''
steve asked when he came into the office just after four .
scott shook his head .
there 's no record of a child being lost that was n't found in this section of the sierras for the last thirty years .
i checked both california and nevada newspapers plus every archive i could find .
i even checked the missing children sites .
there 's nothing . ''
steve perched on the corner of the desk .
that only proves it was either never reported or she came from farther away than that . ''
i 'll check the surrounding states tomorrow . ''
when scott checked the tray the following morning he was surprised to find a folded paper bag on it .
she returned the bag ?
scott looked inside the brown bag , unsure of what he thought he might find .
empty .
scott thought about calling the police and having them fingerprint the bag but then changed his mind and simply tucked it under his arm and headed for the office .
whatcha got ? ''
steve asked .
the paper bag i gave the little girl yesterday . ''
are you sure ? ''
not completely .
but it was laying on the tray .
i 'd say there 's a real good chance it 's the same bag . ''
why would she return it ? ''
steve lyndon shrugged .
our parents always returned the container if someone gave us food in one . ''
yeah but this little girl 's wild .
i do n't think a bear would get much company that brought food over when they came .
scott spent the entire day on the computer trying to find any information that he could link to the little girl .
he scoured every newspaper archive he could find of every state that even came close to touching the sierra or rocky mountains from the mexico border through arizona and new mexico through canada and into alaska .
there were no reports of any missing or lost children in the last fifteen years that had not been found .
even though scott doubted the little girl was that old or had come from that far away , he wanted to cover as many bases as he could and so had extended the search limits .
find anything ? ''
no , '' scott sighed disgustedly and explained the details of his search .
well , i guess the only thing left to do is call the sheriff . ''
what could he do ? ''
his connections are better than ours . ''
he 'd have to have more information than we have , '' scott relayed .
and that would mean catching her . ''
his gaze drifted to one of only two windows in the office .
i just ca n't see that little girl in a cage .
she 's too wild . ''
i have to agree with you there .
ok , no sheriff .
what next then ? ''
all i can think of is just keep making sure that she gets good food and does n't have to dig in garbage cans anymore .
maybe , in time , she 'll trust us enough to let us get closer . ''
closer so we can do what ? ''
i do n't know . ''
steve got to his feet .
i have to run into town for supplies .
then i thought i 'd stop off at cliff 's for a couple of beers .
interested ? ''
you bet .
let me put on a clean shirt . ''
in goldville , the nearest town to the logging camp , the two men gathered the supplies they needed then stopped at the local general store .
when steve was ready to leave he found his younger brother in the childrens clothing section looking at a pink shirt and matching shorts .
a little small for you is n't it ? ''
scott looked up and chuckled then hung them back on the rack .
i was just wondering what size she might wear .
that little dress or shirt she had on was awfully tattered and dirty . ''
if you wanted to get her something i 'd suggest a pair of jeans with an elastic waist though .
although i 'm not sure she 'd be willing to take something like that .
i think she 's too wild . ''
you 're probably right , '' scott said and followed his brother to the front door .
after stopping for a couple of beers at the only bar in the small town the pair headed back to camp .
it was a thirty mile drive back to the logging site that had been their home for the better part of five years .
oh hell ! ''
scott snapped as the truck turned off the highway and headed down the road that weaved through the tall timber toward the camp .
you forget something ? ''
i forgot to put out her food . ''
steve checked his watch .
it 's only a little after ten .
the night we saw them they did n't come till after three .
i 'm sure you have plenty of time yet . ''
scott nodded as he watched the road for any wildlife , something that was quite prevalent at this time of night in the dense forests .
when they arrived back at the logging camp , the pair unloaded the supplies then scott hurried into the kitchen .
he made up the tray including a banana and some grapes , two items they had bought while they were in town and that he had never offered before .
he made the two peanut butter and jelly sandwiches he always did then flipped on the yard light and headed for the garbage bins with the tray in his hands .
as scott sat the tray down on top of the third bin he heard a low , throaty growl from the underbrush that circled the yard less than ten feet beyond the drums .
scott froze his motions as he swiveled his head slowly and looked in the direction of the growl .
he could make out the shadowy outline of the black bear against the brush .
scott swallowed hard and lowered his hands slowly .
he was about to start backing away when a rustling sound hit his ears and moments later , a white image appeared beside the bear .
the little girl .
scott decided to take a chance at learning more about the child and he smiled even though he doubted she could see it in the shadows .
hello , '' he said in the same gentle voice he had used the last time they had met .
he could both see and feel the two pair of eyes on him and he took a deep breath and slowly picked up the banana .
he held it out in an open palm .
food , '' he said in the same even tone then laid it back on the tray .
he smiled again then took a step back .
good night . ''
slowly , he turned and even though he felt like running as hard as he could for the cabin , scott took his time but did hazard a glance or two over his shoulder to make sure the bear was not following .
when he got to the steps , he turned and looked back toward the garbage drums to see the flitter of a white image as it moved behind the barrels and saw the banana float up and disappear behind the third drum .
he smiled then turned and went into the cabin and closed the door .
the following morning , scott lyndon 's first stop was the third garbage drum and he smiled down at the empty tray .
as he reached to pick it up he saw something fall from it and looked down to the ground to see the banana peel .
it was peeled perfectly .
he laid the peel on the tray and headed for the office .
bringing your breakfast to the office now ? ''
steve lyndon teased when he saw his brother enter .
scott grinned then sat the tray on the desk in front of his brother .
i wanted you to see this . ''
uh huh .
that 's a banana peel .
i 'd recognize it anywhere . ''
i found that on the tray this morning .
i added a banana to her supper last night . ''
steve lyndon 's frown was instant .
she knows how to peel a banana ? ''
i ca n't see the bear teaching her that . ''
neither can i . ''
steve looked up at his brother .
i do n't think i learned how to peel a banana till i was four or five . ''
scott nodded .
i remember mom used to send one in my lunch when i was in first grade .
she had to have been taught that before she ended up in the wild . ''
agreed .
but that still does n't get us any closer to finding out who she is . ''
no it does n't .
but right now that 's the furthest thing from my mind .
my main concern is winning her trust .
i think i took a step toward that last night . ''
oh ? ''
scott revealed the happenings of the previous evening and what he had witnessed .
what are you going to do if you do win her trust ? ''
i do n't know .
i guess i 'll cross that bridge when i get there . ''
chapter 4 it was two weeks before scott lyndon saw the little girl again .
although the food tray he left for her each night was empty the following morning he had not seen her or the bear anywhere near the camp or in the forest .
further internet searches had still turned up nothing .
it was looking more and more like their only avenue was the local sheriff .
scott ? ''
the odd tone in his brothers voice brought scott lyndon out of his desk chair instantly .
he rushed out onto the porch to see steve standing in the middle of the yard , his gaze locked on something in the near distance .
there , standing at the edge of the underbrush , was the little girl and the bear .
scott eased down off the porch then stepped toward his brother slowly , his gaze never leaving the pair .
when did she show up ? ''
he asked his brother through barely moving lips .
i came out of the barn and was coming to the office when i heard the bear growl , '' steve informed in a voice that was not much louder than his brother 's .
when i looked up they were standing there . ''
scott examined the little girl 's face and even though he saw fear there , he saw something else too .
he smiled at her .
hello . ''
he heard the bear make a low , growling sound and saw the little girl look at the bear then make a higher pitched throaty sound .
the bear seemed to sniff with disgust before it dropped to its haunches .
did you see that ? ''
steve asked in a whisper .
yeah .
i 'd swear she gave it an order . ''
me too . ''
moments later the little girl took four decisive steps toward them and held out an open hand .
i wonder what that means . ''
i do n't know .
maybe she wants something to eat ? ''
maybe , '' scott replied .
let 's see if we can find out . ''
he held out his hand .
food ? ''
to his surprise she shook her head .
hmm .
guess not . ''
when she took four more steps toward them and held out her hand again , scott watched her expression .
even though there was trepidation there he could see question too .
scott frowned in thought then took a chance .
show me , '' he told her .
the blonde head swiveled and the little girl pointed up toward the top of the north slope then looked at him again and held out her hand .
i think she wants our help , '' scott told his brother .
our help with what ? ''
if i knew that i would n't be guessing . ''
when the little girl took another step forward and held out her hand again scotts decision was made .
i have to find out . ''
you 're not going alone . ''
scott smiled at the little girl .
we will go with you . ''
he saw a small tickle of a smile on her lips before she returned to the bear 's side .
in the blue pickup the two men steered it toward the north ridge road .
when they got to the edge of the yard scott looked up and saw the little girl standing in the middle of the road about ten yards up the hill .
she pointed toward the mountain peaks .
i do n't believe we 're doing this , '' steve said and maneuvered the truck along the road as he watched the little girl run up the road in front of them .
he kept the truck in low gear and at a low speed to stay far enough behind her so they would not frighten her yet would keep her in sight .
i wonder where the bear went . ''
dunno , '' steve glanced to the brush before he focused on the little girl .
man , that kid can run , '' he commented as he eased down on the accelerator a little .
i 'm going ten and barely keeping up with her . ''
it was twenty minutes later when the little girl cut off the road and headed west along the slope .
the truck followed , swerving around old stumps and downed trees .
damned glad we got a four by four , '' steve chuckled as they bounced across a small hill .
he frowned then stopped the truck .
where 'd she go ? ''
scott scanned the hillside then pointed toward the timberline .
there . ''
damn , '' steve muttered as he swung the truck further up the hill .
we 've never been up this far .
this is open government land . ''
less than two minutes later the little girl stopped beside a large boulder .
i guess we 're here , '' steve said as he turned the truck sideways ten yards down the hill and set the brake before shutting it off .
both men exited the truck and started toward the little girl .
when they heard a low throaty growl the pair looked over to see the bear standing less than twelve feet away .
they stopped .
oh boy , '' scott said under his breath then looked from the bear to the little girl and back .
he saw her turn her gaze to the bear and heard that same high pitched sound come from her and he heard the bear sniff then watched it drop to its haunches again .
if not for the severity of the situation scott would have laughed .
he looked at the little girl to see her extend her open hand again and he began a slow pace toward her .
show me , '' he told her gently .
when she pointed behind the boulder scott finished the trek and stopped beside her to see a silver coyote laying on the ground , its paw stuck in a bear trap .
the coyote lifted its head and growled at the man , baring sharp fangs .
oh boy , '' he said and backed up a step before he looked at his brother who was still standing where he 'd left him halfway down the hill .
we 've got a coyote caught in a bear trap up here . ''
im glad i left the rifle in the truck last night , '' steve said and started back for the truck .
no , wait . ''
scott frowned as he watched the little girl go to the coyote .
she sat down beside it and began stroking its fur .
the little girl was in easy reach of the coyote but it only laid its head down and whined .
i think this coyote 's another protector . ''
oh ? ''
do you have any leather gloves in the truck ? ''
yep . ''
bring me a pair . ''
you 're gon na try to get a wild coyote out of a bear trap ?
you 're nuts ! ''
probably .
but this little girl is sitting here petting the coyote and he 's not objecting . ''
he might not object to her but you can be damned sure he 'll object to you . ''
scott looked down at the little girl 's face and saw pleading there .
get me the gloves steve . ''
alright .
but i 'm going to keep the rifle handy . ''
he pulled the gloves and the rifle out of the truck and started back up the hill .
even before he was halfway to the boulder the black bear let out a fierce growl and rose up on its back paws , its gaze focused on steve lyndon .
uh , maybe you 'd better leave that rifle in the truck . ''
not with a wild coyote up there i wo n't . ''
scott looked from the bear to the little girl and back .
steve , put the rifle in the truck and bring me the gloves .
then you can go back to the truck and watch from there . ''
that coyote will tear you apart . ''
just bring me the damned gloves , '' scott snapped coarsely .
steve sighed disgustedly then went back to the truck and laid the rifle on the seat before he started back up the hill with the gloves in his hand .
to his surprise the bear dropped back to all fours and sank to its haunches .
he reached his brother and handed him the gloves as he looked down at the coyote and the little girl 's upturned face .
he saw nothing but pleading there and knew why his brother had insisted on the gloves .
steve did not think anyone would have been able to resist those beautiful blue eyes .
scott pulled on the thick leather logging gloves and tightened the wrist straps .
here goes nothing , '' he said under his breath and moved to the other side of the coyote .
when it lifted its head and barred its fangs , emitting a throaty growl , scott heard the little girl release a higher pitched growl and the coyote closed its mouth and dropped its head back to the ground and whined .
he gave his brother a wide eyed glance before crossing mental fingers .
scott recalled that dogs liked to be scratched behind the ears and he touched the coyote 's ear and scratched it gently as he said in a soft voice , it 's alright boy . ''
when the coyote whined again scott lowered his hand and let the animal sniff the glove .
when it lowered its head again he glanced at the little girl then laid his fingers in the jaws of the bear trap and forced it apart far enough for the coyote to pull its paw out .
get me a stick to put in this thing , '' he told his brother .
steve grabbed a short piece of a broken limb he found nearby and stuffed it into the trap .
scott pulled his fingers out of the jammed trap then picked the metal object up and dangled it by the chain .
why do n't you put this in the truck . ''
he handed the trap to steve then looked down at the little girl and the coyote .
its paw was mangled where the trap had latched onto it and most likely where the coyote had been chewing at it to try to get free .
when the little girl looked up pleadingly then looked down at the coyote scott knew what he had to do .
he took a deep breath then after giving the coyote another ear scratch , slid his arms under the wild animal and lifted him .
other than a whimpering whine scott heard nothing from the animal .
he looked down at the little girl to see her get to her feet and look up at him questioningly .
he smiled and wondered if she would understand .
i 'm going to take him down to the camp and bandage his paw . ''
he saw the little girl look at the coyote before she lifted her hand and stroked its fur .
scott thought most of the questioning expression had diminished .
he stepped around the boulder then looked back at her and smiled again .
want to come with me ? ''
a light flickered to life in the blue eyes before she stepped over to him .
together the pair came down the hill toward the truck .
what the hell are you doing ? ''
helping a friend , '' scott said and looked down at the little girl who was keeping pace with him .
we 'll ride in back , '' he told his brother .
he heard steve 's disgusted sigh before the older lyndon went to the back of the truck and dropped the steel tailgate .
i think you 're nuts , '' he grumbled before he stepped up to the driver 's door .
youve thought that for years .
scott stopped at the back of the truck then , sitting down on the tailgate , turned and raised to his knees then crawled toward the back of the bed .
he looked at the little girl who was standing at the back of the truck watching him and he smiled and nodded at her .
it 's ok , '' he said in the same gentle voice .
you can come too . ''
to scott 's surprise , she climbed into the bed of the truck and came toward him .
she sat down beside him and instantly began petting the coyote .
let 's go steve , '' he told his brother , his gaze still on the little girl .
and take it easy . ''
when the truck started up scott saw the little girl 's eyes widen with fear and she leaped to her feet .
wait , '' scott said gently .
to his relief , she stopped and looked at him .
he smiled .
it 's ok. '' he kept the smile on his face then breathed a sigh of relief when she sat down at his side again .
he smiled as she stroked the coyote 's head and scott saw a tiny bit of a smile touch the corners of her mouth .
as the truck eased into the turn that would take them back down the hill , scott looked up to see the black bear come a few steps then stop .
i think your other friend wants to come with us , '' he commented and wondered if the girl would understand .
when she lifted her gaze and looked at him then looked at the bear he realized she did .
when she looked up at him with that questioning blue gaze he smiled .
it 's ok , '' he said gently and nodded .
he can come too . ''
to his surprise the little girl looked at the bear and emitted a gurgling cry that sounded a great deal like a bear cub 's call .
instantly the bear lumbered toward them at a trot .
what was that ? ''
steve asked through the open back window .
she was talking to the bear . ''
oh . ''
all during the trip down the side of the mountainous slope scott kept moving his gaze from the coyote to the little girl to the bear , the latter keeping a steady pace behind the truck .
the coyote was docile and this shocked scott .
he was sure it was because the little girl was there .
whatever bond held these three together was a strong one , and an old one .
as they neared the yard scott turned his thoughts on how they could help the coyote .
steve ? ''
yeah ? ''
do we still have that canine medical kit the vet gave us for shep ? ''
yeah .
i saw it in the office closet a few weeks ago . ''
when we get back to camp , park the truck over by the garbage drums .
i 'll stay in the truck with them and you go get that med kit . ''
ok. '' scott smiled at the little girl 's questioning eyes .
it 's ok. we 're going to fix your friend 's paw . ''
the little girl looked at the coyote and gave a little sigh as she continued to stroke its fur .
as the truck eased to a stop in the yard scott looked at the little girl then told his brother , bring me that old blanket we 've got in the back room too . ''
ok , '' steve called as he turned the truck off and got out .
scott saw the little girl look around and he looked past her to see the bear come into view and stop twenty feet from the back of the truck .
it dropped to its haunches and sat there watching them .
what the hell ? ! ''
scott looked up to see doug burnett , the shed foreman , come out of the barn .
he heard the instant growl from the bear and saw the little girl 's face fill with fear as they both looked at the newcomer .
doug , go back in the barn and stay there . ''
you got it boss , '' came the instant response before the man spun on his heel and disappeared into the large shed the firm used to ready wood for the mills .
it 's ok , '' scott told the little girl and saw her expression melt back to one of concern for the coyote .
moments later steve came out of the office with the blanket and a white box .
where do you want them ? ''
lay the blanket in front of me .
i 'll put the coyote on it then turn him around with the blanket . ''
steve approached the side of the truck carefully then reached over and laid the blanket on the bed in front of his brother .
do you think you should clean that wound out first ? ''
normally yes .
but all we have is either water or peroxide , both of which would sting .
besides , he 's been licking it so it 's rather clean . ''
scott laid the coyote down carefully then taking special care not to make any sudden moves he eased the blanket around so he could reach the injured paw easily .
he smiled at the little girl 's questioning gaze then took the med kit from his brother .
steve perched his arms on the fender and watched , keeping a sideways eye on the nearby bear .
after opening the kit , scott displayed the contents of the box to the little girl in hopes of assuring her of what he was going to do then laid it on the bed of the truck and removed a large tube of antiseptic salve .
he opened the cap , squeezed a glob of it onto his finger and gently covered the animal 's wounds with it .
he added more salve to the wounds , taking special care as he lifted the injured paw and adhered salve to the underside .
he recapped the tube and put it back in the box then brought out a large roll of gauze and gently wrapped it around and around the paw .
he taped the end of the gauze in place then looked down at his handiwork as he returned the roll to the box .
he gave the docile coyote an ear scratch then smiled at the little girl who was stroking the animal 's head as he closed the med kit and handed it back to his brother .
why do n't you bring me a pan with fresh water in it .
we do n't know how long this fella has been in that trap and it might be a good idea to offer him some water . ''
ok , '' steve said and returned to the office in the same slow pace he had used before .
he was back a minute later with a basin of fresh water .
where do you want it ? ''
i think i 'll move him over by the garbage drums .
she 's familiar with that area and might consider it safer than any place else here . ''
he glanced at his brother .
i 'll pick him up and you move the blanket . ''
ok. '' scott turned his attention to the little girl and smiled .
i 'm going to move your friend where he 'll be more comfortable so he can rest for a little while . ''
he was sure she did not understand but hoped she might have understood part of it .
slowly he scooted toward the back of the truck easing the blanket with him before he slid to the ground .
he saw the girl 's questioning expression as she looked from the coyote to him and he smiled and nodded .
it 's ok. come on . ''
he smiled when she got to her feet and came toward him and he stepped aside instead of offering to help her to the ground .
he admired her agility as she simply jumped to the ground , landing on her feet .
gently , scott eased his hands under the still docile coyote and lifted him .
when the animal whined softly scott said , its ok fella .
you 'll be alright .
to his brother , get the blanket , as he eased the coyote into his arms .
he followed his brother , glancing over his shoulder to make sure the little girl was following him .
behind the large drums , scott laid the coyote on the blanket , gave him another ear scratch then took the water steve handed over and laid it on the ground within easy reach of the coyote .
to their surprise the animal lifted its head and after sniffing the water , drank from it thirstily .
i guess you were right .
scott looked down at the little girl and gave her a warm smile then watched her sink down beside the coyote and stroke its fur before she wrapped her arms around the animals neck and laid her head on its shoulders .
the coyote did n't seem to even notice she was there and laid its head down on its good paw and closed its eyes .
scott heard a low growl and looked over to see the bear watching them from a few feet away .
i think we should go in the office so the three of them can be together . ''
i 'll move the truck later .
after another smile at the little girl scott turned and followed his brother toward the cabin .
when he got to the porch he looked back and saw the bear lumber over to the pair and drop down on the other side of the little girl .
scott would have given his eye teeth if he 'd have had film in his camera and made a mental note to get some next time they were in town .
he turned and went into the office leaving the trio alone .
that was an experience and a half , '' steve said when his brother sank into a desk chair .
tell me about it . ''
scott off the leather gloves .
i never thought logging would include fixing coyote paws . ''
you did a good job but i still think you were nuts to do that . ''
you 're probably right .
but she needed our help and we took a huge step with her today . ''
that we did .
i wonder where it 'll get us . ''
it was three hours later when scott looked out the window toward the garbage drums to see the blanket empty .
i see our company left , '' he told his brother who was on the phone with a local lumber mill .
scott went outside , checked the area , then walked slowly toward the barrels , keeping his eyes and ears open .
he heard nothing unusual and when he reached the drums , he saw nothing unusual .
they were gone .
he picked up the basin and blanket and returned to the cabin .
he dumped out the water then laid the pan under the porch .
after shaking out the blanket scott draped it over the bannister before returning to the office .
you want me to move the truck ? ''
steve nodded then turned back to his phone call .
scott wheeled the four by four into its usual parking spot in an open doored shed near the barn .
after returning the rifle to the office closet scott looked out over the north slope and wondered where the little blonde haired girl was .
he said a prayer for her then went back inside .
each night for the next three weeks scott left food for the child and each morning the food was gone .
although he never saw her or her friends he told himself she was eating well and that was all that mattered .
often times , at night , he would awaken to the howl of a coyote and scott wondered if it was the silver coyote and if the little girl was nearby .
chapter 5 site two to base . ''
the staticy voice split the office silence .
scott went to the transceiver and picked up the microphone .
base . ''
scott , we got us a problem up here . ''
what kind of problem ? ''
chet 's got himself pinned between a couple of logs .
he says he ai n't hurt but he ca n't get out and we ca n't get the trucks back in that far to winch him out . ''
the chains wo n't reach ? ''
nope .
we tried but came up about fifteen feet short .
could you bring us up a couple of s hooks and some chain ?
i think if we could hook these chains together we could snag some of those logs and move them far enough to get chet out . ''
do n't you have three ? ''
yep , and their being used to keep the other logs from coming down on chet . ''
alright .
i 'll be right up . ''
thanks boss . ''
scott raced across the yard to the barn , grabbed a box of hooks and a roll of chain , got them in the back of the four by four and took off for site two .
it took him almost twenty minutes to reach the site and he spotted the lyndon logging trucks on the west side of the jam .
he parked the truck , grabbed the box of hooks and chain then went over to the foreman as he caught sight of the man whose leg was wedged between the logs .
hang in there chet , '' he called to the man who had worked with them since they bought the company five years ago .
the man waved and grinned .
you sure he is n't injured ? ''
scott asked doug burnett .
he says he ai n't , '' the foreman replied as he pulled four hooks out of the box .
says he just ca n't pull his foot out .
he says it 's caught on something . ''
well let 's see if we ca n't pull that jam up enough to find out what it 's caught on . ''
the foreman nodded then took off for the truck that sat on the upper side of the jam .
after rigging the chains together , he signaled an all ready and the truck started up then moved up the slope slowly .
whoa ! ''
came the sharp cry and the truck jerked to a halt .
scott raced up the hill toward the foreman who was surveying the logs .
he shook his head .
ai n't gon na work .
if we try to move those logs that whole mess is going to come down on top of chet . ''
scott lyndon nodded then surveyed the bed of logs .
too bad we do n't have a wedge big enough to slam in there . ''
that 'd do the trick but we do n't . ''
you ok chet ? ''
scott called to the man in the middle of the logs . ''
yep , '' he nodded and looked down at his leg that disappeared into the logs above the knee .
how 'd he get stuck in there anyway ? ''
he was crossing over to the other side and the logs shifted .
his leg slipped down in and that 's the result . ''
well hell , '' scott frowned then leaned against the truck behind him and crossed his arms .
he studied the jam with a thoughtful frown .
did he try pulling his foot out of his boot ? ''
that 's the first thing we thought of .
he ca n't get down in there far enough to get to the boot . ''
looks like the only thing we can do is pull those upper logs off one at a time , '' scott said and looked at the number of logs that he estimated were close to two hundred .
doug burnett swiveled his head and looked at his boss .
you ever play pick up sticks ? ''
when i was a kid . ''
that 's what we 'd be facing .
one matchstick at a time and if we take the wrong one chet loses . ''
scott lyndon scowled and examined the situation again .
do you see another option ? ''
i see three options .
one , play pick up sticks .
that could put chet in danger if we pick the wrong log and it would take us hours to get enough moved to get him out of there .
two , find a wedge large enough to slam in there and pull chet out , if we can get his foot unstuck .
or , three ... doug burnetts sentence was cut short by a fierce growling sound .
both men spun to see a black bear standing about twenty yards up the hillside .
oh shit .
that 's all we needed .
you did n't bring your rifle did ya ' ? ''
scott 's gaze was on the bear .
no .
even though most black bears looked alike there was something familiar about this particular bear .
could it be the little girl 's protector ?
his question was answered a moment later when he saw a flash of white in the underbrush .
you guys stay here , '' he instructed .
do n't move and do n't say a word , '' he told the pair then began a slow steady trek up the hill toward the bear .
he closed the distance by almost half before he stopped .
when the bear growled again there was less fierceness in it .
scott had to take a chance that it was the same bear and that it remembered him and he held out an open hand .
the bear looked at him then emitted a low throaty growl , even softer this time .
there was a rustle in the underbrush and the little girl appeared .
he lowered his hand and smiled .
hello . ''
to his surprise , she gave him a faint smile but much larger than the previous ones he had seen .
he saw her gaze bounce to chet then back and she took a step forward before holding out her hand then pointing to chet .
show me , '' she said in the tiniest of voices .
she could talk !
under normal circumstances scott would have thought she was offering her help .
he spared a moment to look at chet , whose eyes were the size of silver dollars and his mouth was hanging open .
he 's stuck like your friend was , '' he told her .
we need to get him out but it will take time . ''
the little girl took another step forward and held out her hand again .
show me , '' she repeated .
alright , '' scott said and turning , came back down the hill toward the foreman at a slow pace .
go to the truck doug , '' he told the man who was staring at the bear .
you got it boss , '' the foreman said and made a beeline for the nearest logging truck .
when scott got to the end of the jam he looked down to see the little girl beside him .
he studied her blue eyes that were filled with question then pointed to chet .
he 's stuck . ''
the little girl seemed to survey the situation then looked back over her shoulder at the black bear who was still standing in the same place .
she emitted a soft gurgling cry and the bear lumbered down the hill toward her .
nobody move , '' scott called in a little louder tone , glancing from chet to doug .
when the bear reached the little girl 's side she emitted a softer growl which the bear answered before it eased down and looked at the end of the logs closely .
another throaty growl from the bear and a response from the little girl came before she looked up at scott .
the faintest of smiles touched her lips and she nodded .
its ok , she said in a soft , angelic voice before she got down on her hands and knees and disappeared between the logs .
scott blinked .
uhm , '' he said and looked at chet .
she 's coming your way chet .
under the logs . ''
what 's she gon na do ? ''
the man in the midst of the logs asked in disbelief .
i 'm not sure .
but whatever it is be ready for it . ''
ok. '' scott tossed a glance at the bear to see him watching the spot and it seemed like eons before he asked , do you see her yet ? ''
nope . ''
it was almost a full minute later when chet reported , here she is . ''
what 's she doing ? ''
i 'm not sure but i can feel her touching my boot .
i think she 's trying to free my foot .
she 's pushing on it . ''
is it doing any good ? ''
nope . ''
scott lyndon felt totally helpless and extremely frightened for the little girl 's safety .
what 's she doing now ? ''
still pushing and pulling . ''
seconds later , she stopped . ''
chet looked down into the darkness between the logs and could see a slight flutter of white .
she 's untying my boot , '' he told the man at the end of the jam .
moments later chet pulled his leg out of the crevice , minus his boot .
he heard the softest of voices say a muffled , it 's ok. '' chet blinked and saw the flutter of white just before he heard something that sounded like a chain rattling .
i think she 's coming out , '' he announced as he rose to the top of one of the logs and walked carefully to the end where scott was .
he jumped down to the ground and looked at the bear before looking down at the end of the logs .
both men waited and , to scott lyndon , it was another long wait before he heard a chain rattle and the little girl appeared in the opening .
the smile he was gaining when he saw that she was safe quickly changed to a frown as she got to her feet and pulled on the thick chain she had in her hand .
when scott saw a closed bear trap with a leather boot wedged into the arched steel jaws on the other end of the chain he laughed .
he looked at the little girl to see a wide smile on her face and he knew she was thinking the same thing he was .
when she offered the chain he took it and smiled .
thank you , '' he said and handed the trap to chet .
when he looked back at the little girl she had stepped to the bear 's side and he saw the bright smile that lighted her blue eyes and he mirrored the smile before she turned and moved up the hill and into the underbrush with the bear at her heels .
scott turned to chet thomas to see the man 's wide gaze locked on the hillside .
i would n't have believed it if i had n't seen it with my own eyes .
doug burnett joined the pair .
me either . ''
he looked at the boot that was still wedged in the bear trap .
why 'd you laugh when you saw the boot in that trap ? ''
do you remember the day you came out of the shed and the bear was in the middle of the yard ? ''
yep . ''
that 's the same bear . ''
scott relayed the story of the coyote and how he and steve had rescued the coyote after the little girl had come to them and asked for help .
both men chuckled .
so she paid you back the same way , '' the foreman said .
that 's why i had to laugh . ''
i 've seen that bear a few times before , '' chet commented .
well if you see that bear then you know the little girl is n't far away .
just leave them alone .
he 's her protector .
i do n't think he 'll hurt you as long as you stay away . ''
who is she ? ''
we do n't know .
we discovered she was eating out of our garbage drums .
i started setting food out for her .
she comes into camp every night and eats the food i leave on a tray on one of the drums .
i 've checked the archives of every newspaper up and down the sierras and rockies for the last fifteen years but i ca n't find anything about a little girl being lost and never found . ''
he shrugged .
all i can do is make sure she 's eating something besides garbage . ''
why not just call the sheriff ?
chet suggested .
seems he 'd have more connections than you would . ''
we thought of that .
we also realized the sheriff would have to catch her and neither steve or i thought she 'd do very well in a cage . ''
yep , '' doug agreed .
she 's wild .
it 'd kill her to be in captivity . ''
chet looked up at the spot where the girl and bear had disappeared .
that is one remarkable kid .
chapter 6 the following morning , scott lyndon stepped out of the cabin and started across the yard toward the garbage drums , his usual morning jaunt before breakfast .
he spotted the empty tray long before he reached it .
as he stopped at the last drum a movement caught his eye and he looked toward the underbrush to see something black there .
he frowned at it then took a step closer before he recognized fur .
fur ?
the bear ?
he looked around for the little girl but did not see her .
what was the bear doing sleeping here ?
scott decided he did not want to find out and picked up the tray silently and started back for the cabin .
before he had gotten four steps he heard a low throaty growl behind him and knew he was about to find out anyway .
he stopped and turned slowly to see the bear was still lying in the same place but had turned its head around and was looking at him .
while scott was debating his next move a blonde head appeared from behind the bear .
he could see sleep still in the little girl 's eyes and realized this is most likely how they slept at night with the little girl curled up in the protective legs of the bear .
he smiled .
hello . ''
a small smile touched the little girl 's lips before she got to her feet .
hello . ''
it was a tiny voice and one that scott thought might belong to an angel .
he was not sure what to say next or even if he should move .
that decision was made for him when the little girl came around the bear and took two steps toward him then stopped and held out her hand .
behind her , scott saw the bear rise up then turn around and drop to its haunches facing them .
scott slid his gaze back to the little girl and her outstretched , upturned hand .
did she want help again ?
food ?
he decided to try the same approach they had both used .
show me . ''
he expected her to point somewhere but instead , she came forward slowly , her hand still extended .
her gaze , filled with question , never left his .
eight steps later and the little girl stopped in front of him .
she looked down at his hand then , with a touch as soft as a feather , reached out and stroked the back of it .
scott tried to keep his frown inside but failed and it creased his brow with confusion .
i do n't know what you want , '' he said almost sadly .
i do n't understand . ''
he felt the touch on his hand again and he extended an open palm toward her .
to his surprise , she laid her tiny hand in his .
he searched her blue eyes to see a gleam sparkle to life as a soft smile touched her lips .
hello , '' she said in the same angelic voice .
she looked at his hand then lifted her other hand and slowly closed his fingers around her hand before looking back up at him .
show you , '' she said slowly then she nodded her head and added , it 's ok. '' scott lyndon did not know what to make of this .
they had come close to touching before but this confused the hell out of him .
what was she trying to say ?
what was she trying to do ?
it was almost as if she were trying to introduce herself .
he glanced at the bear to see him watching them .
the animal seemed totally content with what was going on .
scott surveyed the blue gaze again then did the only thing he could think of he squatted down in front of her , bringing their gazes to equal level .
he smiled and leveled an index finger at himself .
scott . ''
would she understand ?
the little girl looked at the hand that was holding hers then mimicked his gesture , leveling a finger at herself .
sid ney . ''
it came out broken into two distinct syllables but scott understood it and he smiled .
hello sidney . ''
she smiled .
hello scott . ''
her words were as if she had to concentrate to speak them but they were understandable .
she swiveled her head and looked at the bear then pointed at him as she looked back at the man in front of her .
tongo , '' she said and smiled .
my bear . ''
scott grinned and looked at the bear .
hello tongo . ''
to his surprise the bear emitted a soft growl .
he saw her look around quickly as a small frown touched her forehead .
she looked over one shoulder then the other and scott got the distinct impression she had lost something .
a soft howling cry erupted from her throat .
a split second later a rustle in the underbrush was followed by a silver coyote appearing less than six feet from the bear .
scott blinked his gaze to the animal 's paw , saw the place he had bandaged then saw a smile touch the little girl 's mouth again .
duke , '' she said and looked at the man in front of her .
my dog . ''
dog ?
close enough .
scott smiled at the coyote .
hello duke . ''
again , to his surprise , the animal responded with a soft growl before it sank to its haunches .
if they had gotten this far scott wondered how much further they could get .
sidney , '' he said gently and saw her gaze become expectant .
where 's your mommy and daddy ? ''
slee ping , '' was the innocent response .
he frowned at that .
sleeping , where ? ''
she swiveled her head and looked around as if to get her bearings then pointed to the north , northeast .
scott forced the frown from his forehead .
there was nothing up there but steep mountains and deep gorges .
is the place they are sleeping far away ? ''
sidney seemed to think about that for a moment before she shook her head .
not far away . ''
scott had to know if the vision that kept coming up on the screen in his mind was right .
show me ? ''
he asked .
she nodded and , removing her hand from his , then took a step back .
wait here , '' he told her and picked up the tray before he got to his feet .
he turned and hurried to the house .
steve ? ''
yeah ? ''
scott hurried in and tossed the tray on the counter .
the little girl 's back .
i 've been talking to her . ''
steve lyndon turned from the coffee pot , a fresh cup of coffee in his hand .
both of his eyebrows shot upward .
talking ? ''
he nodded .
her name is sidney .
the bear and coyote are with her .
she said her mom and dad are sleeping up in the mountains to the northeast of here . ''
that 's some damned rough terrain up there . ''
i know .
i asked her if she would show me where they 're sleeping and she said she would .
i 'm taking the truck up as far as i can go then will hike the rest of the way . ''
you 'd better take a two way . ''
good idea , '' scott said and headed for a door in the opposite wall .
i 'll be back when i can , '' he informed as he removed a two way radio from one of the shelves there then put in new batteries .
he grabbed a set of high powered binoculars from the same shelf then went out the front door .
scott was not sure if the little girl would still be there but , to his surprise , she had not moved .
he slowed his pace as he neared her for fear of spooking her guardians .
he smiled as he neared her and received a smile in return .
ready to go ? ''
the blue gaze slid to the truck and back .
go in blue car ? ''
and she pointed to the truck .
he nodded .
she lifted her hand and slipped it into his then smiled .
ready to go . ''
scott was glad she was so willing to go in the truck .
the trek by foot would have been too lengthy .
he led her toward the truck .
when they were about halfway across the compound he heard a yip and looked back to see the coyote bound forward about ten feet , its ears pricked forward .
sidney looked back then up at him questioningly .
scott smiled and nodded .
it 's ok .
they can come too . ''
her smile was instant and she looked back at the two animals , emitted a gurgling cry then watched both of them come forward at a trot .
scott was not all that keen about having a coyote and a black bear tag along but they were sidney 's friends and that , alone , made it necessary .
he led sidney to the truck then let go of her hand and opened the back tailgate .
they will have to ride back here , '' he told her .
sidney turned and looked at the two animals that were less than six feet behind her and she touched the tailgate then emitted a soft growl .
scott watched the coyote come forward and leap up into the back of the truck with the bear following a second after .
he stifled a chuckle as the truck 's shocks took the full weight of the bear .
he looked down to see the little girl nod and scott closed the tailgate then looked at his cargo to see them both lay down , almost side by side and look at him .
he led sidney to the passenger side and opened the door , was surprised to see her climb right in .
he buckled her seatbelt , saw her questioning frown and smiled .
it 's ok. '' the frown disappeared and she smiled and nodded .
he closed the door then went around to the driver 's side and slid in behind the wheel , laying the two way on the dash .
he buckled his seatbelt then started the truck .
he glanced over his shoulder at the two animals in the back and said , hang on fellas , '' before he gave the passenger a smile then headed for the dirt road that led to the north slopes .
he knew there was a secondary road that was used by the forest service at the top of the second ridge and knew it led east .
if they could get even part way , they could hike the rest of the way as long as it was not too far .
he looked at sidney to see her looking at all of the buttons and dials on the dashboard with wide eyes .
he smiled at her when she looked at him and received a return smile before she looked out the window .
any other child in a truck that had tons of buttons would be pushing them and wanting to see what they did .
sidney was obviously a very well behaved child and he wondered about that .
it was a silent ride that had sidney looking back through the window often to check on her pets .
she seemed to be satisfied that they were fine each time she looked and once , she even stretched her arm out the open back window and smiled when the coyote nuzzled her hand .
are we getting closer ? ''
scott asked as they turned off on the forestry road and headed east .
sidney straightened as much as the seatbelt would allow and craned her neck to see where they were .
she nodded .
get ting closer . ''
scott hoped she knew what he had meant .
he was not one for wild goose chases .
he steered the truck around several large boulders and knew they would not be able to go much farther by truck .
he saw his passenger crane her neck again and she seemed to be examining the mountains .
there , '' she said and pointed toward the north .
scott slowed the truck and got his bearings before he turned left at the next dirt road and headed along the top of another slope .
he was in unfamiliar territory now and on land owned by the federal government .
it was set aside as a nature preserve and off limits to people and vehicles .
scott slowed the truck 's speed to twenty .
it would be best if they did not try anything faster in case a drop off loomed up in front of them .
he watched sidney out of the corner of his eye and saw she was watching the mountains closely now .
she seemed to be looking for something .
less than a mile farther , she found it .
stop . ''
scott did as instructed and looked at the landscape .
it was mostly deep rolling hills on this side of the terrain .
but across the gorge to the east , it was nothing but a sheer mountain cliff .
a wide , deep gorge separated the two .
he met the blue gaze .
here ? ''
she nodded .
he checked the angle of the truck , turned the wheels to the left , then set the brake and turned off the engine .
he unbuckled his seatbelt , grabbed the keys and the two way then slid out and hurried around to the passenger side .
after releasing the little girl 's harness , he stepped back and watched her jump to the ground .
he closed the door then looked around the area .
it was definitely beautiful here .
he heard a low throaty growl and looked at his cargo at the same time sidney did .
when he saw her look up at him he smiled and nodded then went to the back and opened the tailgate .
everybody out , '' he said brightly and grinned when the two animals rose and came forward .
never in his wildest dreams did he think he would be hauling around a coyote and a black bear .
after the coyote and bear had leaped down and moved away from the truck he turned back to sidney .
show me . ''
when she started toward the edge of the eastern slope scott followed with the coyote and bear close at his heels .
the going was easy at first but , a few minutes later the hill started sloping downward .
scott watched the little girl move down the slope easily and thought she looked like a mountain goat .
when she stopped on a flat part of the hill he frowned then came up beside her to see she was standing less than 8 feet from a drop off .
he watched her drop to her stomach then crawl slowly toward the edge .
when she stopped and looked back at him scott could see the well ? ''
expression and he smiled then dropped to his stomach and crawled up beside her .
she smiled then crawled forward again , stopping at the edge of the drop off .
there , '' she said and pointed straight down .
scott moved forward slowly then looked over the edge to see a deep gorge that was at least two hundred foot deep .
at the bottom of the gorge he could see something blue and , nearby , something red .
he lifted the binoculars , brought them into focus and looked at the objects again .
backpacks .
he scanned the area then sighed as he saw two human skeletons sprawled over the jagged rocks .
now what ?
scott lowered the binoculars and looked around the area .
there was no way to get down there without breaking your neck , unless you were a bird .
he looked at the opposite side of the rocky gorge , searching desperately for some kind of easy way down .
there was none .
he looked at the little girl to see her watching him .
how long have your mommy and daddy been sleeping down there ? ''
the little girl 's expression twisted in thought before she swiveled her head and looked over her shoulder at the two animals .
she emitted a soft growl , received one back from the bear .
another growl , this one more of a cry and the bear responded with a warbling growl .
sidney looked back at scott and held up her hand , spreading her fingers .
this many winters . ''
scott took a deep breath .
five ? ''
the blonde head bobbed .
five winters ?
this little girl had been in these mountains for five years ?
the winters here were horrid .
it was not uncommon to have blizzards that lasted for days and the mountainside to be covered in several feet of snow during any one of those massive snowstorms .
and the snow never fully melted until spring .
where do you sleep in the wintertime sidney ? ''
her smile was instant and she pointed to the bear .
sleep with tongo . ''
bears hibernate .
humans can not do that .
tongo sleeps all winter , '' scott told her .
do you sleep all winter too ? ''
no .
duke visits me . ''
hmm .
but what about food ?
certainly the coyote could not bring her food .
he had not even considered that she had spent winters here .
where do you get food in the winter ? ''
keep food from summer to eat in winter . ''
that 's how she did it .
hm .
it might work if she had a way of drying the food .
but was she that well versed in living in natural surroundings to know that ?
scott 's mind was flooding with questions he did not think sidney could answer .
he smiled at her .
oh , '' he decided would be the best response .
he looked over the edge of the dropoff again .
do you ever go down and see your mommy and daddy ? ''
her nod was instant .
how do you get down to see them ? ''
sidney pointed to the north .
show you ? ''
yes . ''
scott said then crept backwards a safe distance before he got to his feet .
when sidney crawled backwards the garment he 'd determined was an oversized t shirt hiked up and his gaze widened on the tiny bare bottom .
he turned his gaze away quickly and looked at the animals to see them lying on the grass watching , obviously quite content to stay where they were .
when she stood up , scott turned back to her and smiled .
ready to go ? ''
she nodded then turned and , with the animals behind them , they went along the hillside for almost a quarter of a mile before she stopped .
scott came up beside her .
here , '' she said and pointed to a gradual incline .
scott looked back over his shoulder and realized the cliff had turned and this way would be quite easy .
when he saw her start down the path he called , wait . ''
she came back to him with a questioning expression .
he smiled .
i need to call my brother and tell him where we 're going . ''
her expression told him she did not understand and he smiled and held up the radio then said , wait . ''
he lifted the radio and keyed it .
portable two to base . ''
the reply was instant .
base .
where are you ? ''
beyond the back forty from what i can tell , '' scott said with a frown as his gaze slid around the area .
find anything ? ''
yeah , at the bottom of a two hundred foot gorge . ''
oh hell .
what are you going to do ? ''
we 're going down there .
sidney showed me an easy way to get down .
i doubt i 'll be able to get out while we 're down there though . ''
he looked over his shoulder .
i 've left the truck just beyond the end of fire lane forty four , in the preserve .
we 're about half a mile east of that then a quarter mile north along the rim is the path we 're about to take . ''
got it .
how much time do you want ? ''
give me at least three hours or maybe a little more , '' scott relayed after keying the radio .
i do n't know how long it 's going to take to get down there .
the path is gradual and winding then we have to backtrack about a quarter of a mile over the rock bed . ''
ok .
it 's just after nine .
you got the animals with you ? ''
yes . ''
ok. be careful scott . ''
i will .
see you in a few .
portable two clear . ''
base clear . ''
scott clipped the radio to his belt then looked down at the upturned face to see a smile .
sidney looked at the radio then grinned .
ten four . ''
scott laughed then nodded .
ten four . ''
evidently she 'd had some kind of contact with a radio , most likely cb .
he smiled .
ready to go ? ''
she nodded then turned and started down the path again with scott right behind her .
the path was a gradual one that wove along the hillside much like a switchback .
it seemed well traveled .
but , by what ?
scott had no idea what kind of animals lived in the preserve .
he glanced over his shoulder to see the coyote and bear a few yards behind him and he smiled .
if they encountered anything in the gorge , they would be well protected .
or , to be more precise , sidney would be .
they reached the end of the trail forty five minutes later .
scott looked up at the sheer cliffs and then looked south .
the going would not be easy .
the gorge floor was littered with rocks of all shapes and sizes .
he looked down at sidney 's bare feet and wondered how she was going to fare on the rocks .
he saw her smile and returned it .
ready to go ?
she asked then looked back at the coyote and bear .
she emitted a throaty cry and the coyote came forward .
sidney stroked its fur then emitted another cry that sounded something like a warbled yip and the coyote moved forward down the ravine .
scott thought the animal looked a lot like a point man .
as they moved along the bottom of the gorge he watched sidney go from rock to rock and realized she had done this many times .
he followed her path and found the going quite easy .
when he heard the coyote emit a low , throaty growl he looked up to see sidney stop .
wait , '' she said quietly .
scott stopped a few steps behind the girl and looked at the coyote to see the hair on the back of its neck was standing straight up and it seemed to be looking at something in the rocks ahead .
moments later the animal released a piercing growl and leaped forward .
when it came up with a snake in its mouth scott 's eyes shot to full width .
he watched the coyote shake the snake then throw it to the side and scott saw the motionless reptile land on top of a large flat rock twenty feet away .
although it was not a rattlesnake scott realized the coyote was taking no chances .
when he saw the animal look back at them and heard a soft yip before it moved forward again scott realized the coyote was protecting them .
he looked down at the tiny blonde when she turned and looked up at him .
it 's ok , '' she smiled and was off again .
less than twenty minutes later the coyote stopped and dropped to its haunches .
scott saw the blue backpack a few feet ahead of the animal and realized they had arrived at their destination .
when sidney stopped by the blue backpack scott came up beside her and looked at the twisted mass of bones .
daddy is still sleeping , '' she said quietly before she took several more steps and stopped at the red backpack .
mommy is still sleeping too . ''
scott wanted to pick sidney up and give her a tender hug but he did not think she would understand why and he was sure the coyote and bear wouldnt either .
he looked at the backpacks .
could there be something in them that told him their names ?
he knew the rules of the mountains were that hikers always carry some form of id .
had they followed that rule ?
would the little girl even let him look in the backpacks .
he had to try .
sidney ? ''
she looked up at him .
he gestured to the blue backpack .
can i look in your daddy 's backpack ? ''
she looked at the bones then nodded .
daddy is sleeping so its ok. '' scott thought her words were coming easier now and wondered if it was because she had not had much reason to talk in five years .
he squatted down by the backpack and unzipped it carefully .
after pulling out a jacket and a pair of gloves scott found several days of rations and a map book for hikers .
no identification and there was nothing else in the main compartment .
he opened the map book , found no name or address on the page it was designated for then leafed through it to a page that was dog eared .
the map had several blue and red lines on it , each one marking a trail that was in this part of the mountains .
but no writing of any kind .
scott stuffed the book back in then looked at the rations .
they were generic rations and displayed no store logo .
they also had a four year old expiration date .
he put them back in then looked at the jacket and gloves .
after checking the pockets of the jacket scott put everything back into the backpack and zipped it up .
he checked the outer pockets , found some very old gum , a box of waterproof matches , a pair of sunglasses and a receipt for the map book .
he tried to read the store name on the receipt but it was too faded .
scott closed that pocket and went to the next only to find it empty .
he checked the backpack for a nametag , found it and lifted the leather flap only to find it blank .
damn .
scott pulled the nametag paper out , turned it over and found a price tag .
the backpack had cost 20 and was bought at sears .
no help there .
he put the nametag paper back in and sighed before he straightened .
he looked at the bones and the shreds of faded fabric that still shrouded parts of them then searched around the hip area for a wallet .
sidney , does daddy carry a wallet ? ''
she frowned for a moment before her hand went to her backside , where a wallet would be placed .
she nodded .
scott looked around the bones again but saw nothing that even closely resembled a wallet .
i do n't see your daddy 's wallet . ''
sidney smiled .
before they went to sleep daddy asked me to keep his wallet safe for him . ''
scott smiled .
that 's very nice of you sidney .
where are you keeping it safe ? ''
at my house . ''
she pointed back toward the camp .
show you ? ''
he shook his head .
not yet . ''
he looked at the red backpack .
can i look in mommy 's backpack too ? ''
sidney nodded then moved over to the next rock , stepping away from the other bones .
scott went to the other backpack and knelt down , took a look at the hand that was still clutching the strap and sighed before he opened it .
the second backpack contained pretty much the same thing except the map book was replaced by a romance novel .
he checked the front and back covers for a name but found nothing .
i took some of mommy 's shirts , '' sidney admitted and tugged on the t shirt she was wearing .
she blinked innocently .
do you think mommy will be mad when she wakes up ? ''
scott smiled at the innocence .
no , i 'm sure she wo n't be mad . ''
that made the smile return .
two bodies , two sets of bones , and no identities .
who were these people and how did they get here ?
sidney ?
did mommy and daddy drive a car ? ''
she nodded .
a big red and white car . ''
where 's the big red and white car ? ''
if there was an unattended car somewhere , certainly the sheriff 's department would have discovered it before five years had passed .
that would have generated a report and an investigation .
he saw sidney 's gaze slide along the mountains as deep crevices furrowed her tiny forehead .
she looked around the mountains for several seconds before sighing softly .
i do n't 'member , '' she said sadly .
he smiled .
that 's ok. you are doing very well . ''
her smile reappeared .
as scott turned he saw something catch the sunlight and he looked down into the rocks .
what was that ?
he reached down and picked up a locket that was dangling from a golden chain .
it was a beautiful locket simple yet elegant with tiny scrolls on the front of the heart shaped piece .
he held it up .
is this mommy 's locket ? ''
sidney took a step closer and looked at it then nodded as a big smile curled her lips .
yes . ''
scott opened it to see two pictures .
they were slightly faded but easily discernible .
on one side was a man and a woman a handsome couple , and they were smiling .
on the other side was a little boy and girl and scott 's eyes shot to full width .
he recognized the little girl as a younger sidney .
sidney ?
do you have a brother ? ''
the little girl sighed softly .
he went away , '' she said simply .
mommy and daddy said he had to go to sleep and would sleep for a really long time . ''
he looked at the picture and guessed the children were maybe four and five , the boy being the oldest .
how old was your brother when he went away ? ''
she held up five fingers .
scott nodded and looked at the picture again then closed the locket and smiled at the innocent eyes .
we should take this and keep it safe for mommy , do n't you think ? ''
sidney looked down at the bones then smiled and nodded .
mommy would like that . ''
scott considered ways of getting the bones out of the gorge but there was no way of doing that now or maybe ever , without disturbing them .
he looked at the little girl .
shall we go and let mommy and daddy sleep ? ''
she looked down at them and nodded then turned and looked at the coyote who was only a few feet way .
she emitted a soft gurgling cry and the coyote moved past them and took the point again .
after one more look at the skeletons , scott tucked the locket into his jeans pocket and followed the little girl back along the same path .
how was he going to find out if the sheriff 's department had discovered a big red and white car in one of the mountaintop parking lots in the last five years without raising suspicions or questions ?
how was he going to get these people up out of this gorge and buried without raising suspicions ?
how was he going to handle it when sidney showed him her daddy 's wallet and he learned who they were ?
did she have relatives somewhere ?
was there family who had been searching for them ?
why had n't the sheriff discovered a car ?
why had n't the bodies been discovered ?
so many questions .
scott knew if he contacted the sheriff they would all be answered but what would happen to sidney ?
he looked at the little girl that was moving along the rocks .
he had to think of her first .
the rest would come later .
it was just over an hour before they reached the top of the hill and scott pulled the radio from his belt and keyed it .
portable two to base . ''
there you are .
you 're late . ''
sorry , '' scott said and glanced at his watch and realized they were almost thirty minutes late .
we got a little tied up down there going through a couple of backpacks . ''
find anything ? ''
not a thing . ''
you coming back to camp now ? ''
yeah .
we 're still a quarter mile from the truck .
i 'll keep the radio on and let you know when we get back to the truck . ''
ok. base clear . ''
portable two clear . ''
he returned the radio to his belt and looked at the innocent blue eyes then grinned .
ten four . ''
the grin was returned .
ten four . ''
together they hiked along the hillside in silence , reaching the truck in record time .
to scott 's surprise , the coyote and bear leaped into the back of the truck without instruction and settled down , seemingly happy to get a ride back to civilization .
scott pulled the radio from his belt and keyed it .
portable two to base . ''
base . ''
we 're back at the truck .
should be home in thirty minutes or so . ''
roger .
see you then .
base clear . ''
portable two clear . ''
he shut the tailgate then opened the passenger door and watched sidney climb inside .
scott buckled her in before he closed her door and locked it then went around to the driver 's side .
he laid the radio on the dashboard , slid the key into the ignition then buckled his seatbelt and met the blue gaze .
ready to go ? ''
she grinned .
ready to go . ''
she swiveled her head and looked through the back window and said , hang on fellas , '' in the same tone he had used earlier .
scott laughed then started the truck , gave his cargo a quick glance then turned the truck around and they headed back up the dirt road and out of the preserve .
it was just before they reached the logging road when sidney spoke .
scott ? ''
yes sidney ? ''
mommy and daddy are n't going to wake up are they . ''
scott lyndon felt a chill careen through him .
oh how sorry he felt for this innocent child .
he could not lie to her , not when he had come so far in reaching her .
no sidney , '' he said gently .
your mommy and daddy are going to sleep for a really long time . ''
she sighed heavily then looked out the window .
they went to sleep like sammie did . ''
was sammie your brother ? ''
she nodded .
scott had the urge to stop the truck and hug the little girl but chased the desire away , even if her guardians were at a safe distance .
yes sidney , '' he said gently .
they went to sleep like sammie did . ''
he heard her sigh and his heart went out to the little blonde haired girl that had no family .
scott lyndon decided he had to try to find any family she might have .
he would just have to find a way to do it and protect her at the same time .
when scott pulled the truck into camp he eased it to a stop at the end of the cabin and turned off the engine .
sidney had been very quiet and had kept her gaze out the window during the entire trip back .
sidney ? ''
she swiveled her head and looked at him .
he searched her face for tears .
are you ok ? ''
she smiled and nodded .
scott was n't so sure about that but he took her word for it and grabbed the radio then slid out of the truck .
he opened the tailgate on the way around the truck unbuckled sidney 's seatbelt then stood back as she hopped to the ground .
as he closed the door he reached into his pocket and pulled out the locket and held it out in his hand .
sidney looked at it then looked up at him .
will you keep mommy 's locket safe for me ? ''
he smiled .
yes , i will . ''
she looked at the coyote and bear who were now on the ground nearby then looked back at the man in front of her .
she gave him a gentle smile that was followed by an angelic thank you '' then turned and after emitting a gurgling cry , took off on a dead run toward the underbrush with the coyote and bear at her heels .
scott sighed then turned to see his brother standing on the office porch .
looks like you made some headway . ''
yeah . ''
scott looked back at where the trio had disappeared .
i feel so sorry for that little girl . ''
he went into the office behind his brother and sank to a chair then looked down at the locket he was still holding .
what do you have there ? ''
this is a locket i found by her mother 's skeleton , '' he relayed and held it up .
sidney told me they 've been down there five years . ''
five years ? ''
steve cried .
he took the locket and , opening it , looked at the two photos inside .
that little girl has run wild in these hills for five damned years ? ''
scott nodded .
she said she 's been here five winters . ''
how in the hell did she survive ? ''
she said she sleeps with the bear and the coyote visits her .
evidently she stores food somehow then eats that during the winter . ''
that kid has more guts than anyone i know . ''
tell me about it .
scott relayed what they 'd found in the gorge and how he 'd found no id in either backpack .
she said they came in a big red and white car . ''
he frowned .
you 'd think if the sheriff found a big red and white car that he 'd have started an investigation . ''
you 'd think so .
if they found it . ''
well these people had to live someplace .
sidney said she had a brother sammie but he had died when he was five .
he had to have been buried . ''
what do you plan on doing ? ''
i want to try to find out if she has any family . ''
that 'll bring the sheriff . ''
i know .
but i think i know of a way to get the ball rolling and still protect her . ''
how ? ''
report that i found those two skeletons . ''
might work .
but what if the sheriff finds out they had a little girl with them ? ''
i do n't know .
i guess i 'll have to cross that bridge when i get there . ''
what are you going to do about sidney ? ''
scott smiled .
well , the first thing i 'm going to do is get that kid some jeans .
she said she had taken some of her mommy 's t shirts and that 's all she has on . ''
steve chuckled .
i guess we need to take a trip into town . ''
chapter 7 after a quick lunch , steve and scott lyndon drove into goldville .
while steve picked up a few supplies at the general store scott went into the kid 's clothes section and browsed through the racks of little girl 's clothes .
he held several pair of jeans against his leg , measuring them against the height the little girl had been when she had been standing beside him .
he chose two pair one black and one blue , that he thought would fit then looked at the shirts .
it might be that she would prefer to keep her mother 's t shirt but scott did not think it would hurt to buy a couple of shirts , just in case .
he picked out two that were simple a white one with pink flowers on the front and the other was light pink with a picture of a brown teddy bear on it and crossed mental fingers that they 'd fit .
he glanced at the little girl 's underwear section but decided he was not quite ready to get that deep .
find something ? ''
steve asked when they met in the hardware section .
scott nodded and displayed the clothes he had draped over his arm .
i 'm not sure they 'll fit but i think they 'll be close . ''
they gathered their purchases and headed for the checkout .
the pair were just coming out of the store when the sheriff 's car pulled up .
oh boy , '' scott said under his breath as he recognized the man behind the wheel .
howdy boys , '' josh logan called as he unfolded himself from the squad .
how 's it goin ' sheriff ? ''
steve called after a quick glance at his brother .
to their relief the officer sauntered past them and into the store .
i 'm just not ready to face him yet , '' scott said after they had driven away .
i want to do a little more digging before i have to . ''
what kind of digging ? ''
sidney said she was keeping her daddy 's wallet safe for him .
i 'm hoping she 'll bring it to me and that it will have some kind of id in it . ''
let 's hope it does . ''
yeah , '' scott said blandly as he turned his attention to the country roads .
steve swung the truck off the main highway and onto the gravel road that led to the camp .
you can almost feel the chill of fall in the air , '' he commented casually .
i noticed that this morning when i went out to get sidney 's tray . ''
his gaze was focused on the road ahead , as it always was when they traveled the passages that wove through the dense forest .
it was not unusual for a wild animal to dart out in front of them and , on more than one occasion , the lyndon boys had had close calls with everything from deer to raccoons .
in the distance , a movement on the high bank to the left caught scott 's eye .
something 's up on that bank , '' he told the driver .
better slow ... '' just then something hit the truck with a loud thud , breaking off his sentence .
what the hell was that ? ''
steve snapped as he hit the brakes , bringing the truck to a skidding halt .
scott glanced around then turned his gaze out the back window to see a silver coyote standing in the middle of the truck bed .
he glanced at the right paw to see faint signs of an injury then met the animal 's gaze .
when the coyote growled throatily but displayed no fangs scott blinked .
we just picked up a passenger , '' he commented .
hello duke , '' he said with a slight edge of tension in his voice .
the animal emitted another small throaty growl before it sank to its haunches then laid down .
this is going to take some getting used to . ''
steve grinned and shook his head before he moved the truck forward again .
do you think sidney 's around somewhere ? ''
i 'm not sure .
i know if the bear 's around , she 's close by but i do n't know much about her and duke yet .
my guess though , would be yes . ''
as the camp came into view scott looked at the garbage drums and he smiled .
i guess that answers your question , '' he said and pointed to the black bear that was laying on the ground near the underbrush .
as they neared he saw a blonde head pop up from behind the bear and he smiled .
and there 's sidney . ''
after the truck had eased to a stop , scott opened the door and got out as the coyote leaped from the back and trotted over to the little girl who was now standing beside the garbage drums .
scott looked at the girl with a smile .
hello . ''
her smile was instant .
hello . ''
after giving steve a tentative glance she took two steps toward scott and extended her hand and the object she was holding .
i 'll take this stuff in the office , '' steve said after catching the glance .
he was sure the little girl was not too comfortable about him being there and he understood that .
she had had a lot more contact with scott .
thanks . ''
scott walked slowly toward the little girl .
he glanced at the two animals who now sat only a few feet behind the child then looked down at her hand as he neared .
what do you have ? ''
daddy 's wallet . ''
oh , '' he said .
when scott reached sidney he squatted down in front of her .
is it ok if i look in daddy 's wallet ? ''
she nodded .
scott took the wallet and noticed it was well worn .
he took a deep breath and opened it .
his gaze fell instantly on a colorado driver 's license .
colorado ?
he read the name 'steven southington ' and the address , 'p.o .
box one four nine , brookridge , colorado ' .
a post office box address .
well , it was better than nothing .
he examined the picture and matched it with the one he had seen in the locket .
he opened the snap compartment and his gaze fell on a picture of a man and woman , a larger version of the picture in the locket .
he flipped the cellophane leaf and saw a picture of a much younger sidney .
across from it was a blonde haired little boy .
sammie , '' he decided then flipped the leaf over .
he read the denver public library card that was registered to steven southington .
he flipped the leaf again and examined the roadside assistance club card that was embossed with the name 'steven southington ' .
scott closed the snap compartment .
not a lot of help there .
he opened the bill compartment and counted more than two hundred dollars in cash and found a cash receipt from a service station in wilkesburg , colorado for seventy seven dollars and eighty seven cents for fuel .
scott frowned .
that was a high gas bill .
he read the line 'forty one point two gallons at one dollar , eighty nine cents per gallon ' .
forty one gallons ?
there were very few vehicles that could hold that much gas a motorhome and a large moving truck being two .
a big red and white car ?
could that car have been a motorhome ?
he stuffed the receipt back in the compartment then looked under the license to find a single key wrapped tightly in cellophane wrap .
a key ?
he examined it but found no markings on it .
he stuffed it back under the license then turned the wallet and checked under the photo compartment .
he pulled out a small stack of items and began to leaf through them .
more gas receipts one from a station in colorado and two from nevada .
scott read the membership card from the audubon society stating that 'steven southington ' was a member in good standing .
under the card he found a folded sheet of paper and unfolded it then read the letter from the offices of john williams , attorney at law , in denver , colorado and was addressed to steven and susan southington at p.o .
box one four nine , brookridge , colorado .
'dear mr. and mrs. southington , i regret to inform you that the first national bank of denver intends to follow through with the foreclosure on your property at one two seven four one north ridge road .
they have requested that i inform you that your family has until midnight on june thirtieth to vacate the cabin .
both they and i understand your predicament surrounding losing your job at denver electric as well as the fact you have not been able to find another job in the two years since you worked at denver electric .
i am sure you will agree that the first national bank of denver has been very lenient in accepting partial payments against your loan but they have informed me that partial payments are no longer enough .
i am sorry , mr. and mrs. southington but i see no other avenue at this time .
please contact me if i can be of further assistance .
sincerely , john williams , attorney at law ' scott sighed and folded the letter and slid it under the growing stack in his right hand .
the gas receipt from wilkesburg , colorado had been dated the first of july .
could it be the family was moving to california ?
scott thought that was a distinct possibility .
if they had rented a moving van that might account for the large amount of gas they had purchased as well as the 'big red and white car ' that sidney had mentioned .
he went on to the next item , unfolding the handwritten sheet carefully and read 'to whom it may concern , my name is steven southington .
my wife is susan southington and up until last week we lived at one two seven four one north ridge road , in the mountains above brookridge , colorado .
it was a small cabin that susan and i built ourselves .
a place for she and i to live away from the hustle and bustle of city life .
we never expected to have children when we built the cabin but god surprised us and blessed us with two beautiful children a boy and a girl .
samuel was born at home on december thirty first .
sidney was born a year later on january twenty sixth , also at home .
since susan stayed at home all of the time and we had no friends , it was easy to conceal the pregnancies and births .
neither sammie nor sidney have a birth certificate or a social security number .
we taught them in home school so they never attended public school .
we cherish the simple life and have tried to raise our children the same way .
our children have not been raised with the luxuries of electricity or modern frills .
they were taught to seek out their entertainment and existence from nature and the land that god gave us .
over the past two years our lives have become tangled in the red tape of society 's bureaucracy when i lost my job due to a layoff .
i have not been able to find work since and now the bank has foreclosed on the five thousand dollar loan that we had to take out to build our cabin .
sammie , our son , died in a massive rockslide near our home two months ago , the day before the bank notified us of the impending foreclosure .
we chose to allow god to take care of his earthly body and left him under the millions of tons of rocks a natural grave for a son of nature .
we have purchased an inexpensive motorhome and placed all of our earthly belongings in it .
soon , we will reach our new home in california 's sierra mountains .
our daughter sidney , does not know of our plans .
she would not understand that her mommy and daddy can not go on any longer , facing one strife after another with no end in sight .
we have parked our motorhome in the middle of a dense forest thicket approximately one quarter mile northwest of the end of forestry fire lane forty seven .
it is well hidden from view in this untraveled area and will likely not be discovered for years to come , if then .
tomorrow i will place the key to the motorhome in my wallet then ask sidney to take care of daddy 's wallet for him .
while she plays on the shaded slopes , susan and i will climb the face of the mountain then go down to our final resting place .
we have prayed to god that he will watch over her and protect her until the time comes when someone can take care of her better than we can .
we have no family as both susan and i were foster children who lost our parents at a young age .
and so , if you are that someone that sidney has grown to trust , we ask you to take care of our little girl and take her as your own .
she is a sweet little girl with the innocence of angels .
she is truly a nature 's child .
in the motorhome , hidden behind a panel beneath the back bedroom closet floor you will find a metal box filled with all of the necessary information to legally bring sidney into your family if you so wish to .
we pray that whomever she finds will take care of her and love her .
someday , when she grows up enough to understand , please show her this letter and help her understand that mommy and daddy love her very much and are doing this so she will have the life she deserves a life we can not give her .
sincere thanks from , steve and sue southington ' scott lyndon sighed heavily as he felt chills slice through his body for the fifth time since he had begun reading the letter .
the couple , at the end of their rope , had planned their own deaths and the future of their daughter .
he wondered if they realized she would end up living in the mountains for five years with a black bear and a silver coyote as her only companions .
somehow , he doubted it .
scott felt sorry for the couple and wished he could have helped them .
he looked up at the innocent blue eyes of sidney southington and realized he could .
he folded the letter and slipped it back into the wallet then closed the wallet and held it up for the little girl to take .
she shook her head .
can you keep it safe with mommy 's locket ? ''
he smiled and nodded .
yes , i will keep it safe with your mommy 's locket . ''
before he could blink sidney stepped up to him and , wrapping her arms around his neck , hugged him tightly .
if there had been any doubt about sidney 's future , it was extinguished in that moment and he wrapped his arms around her and hugged her tenderly as tears stung his eyes .
when she released him and pulled back , scott saw question in her face .
daddy told me that someday a really nice man would come and i would go to live with him .
are you that man scott ? ''
scott lyndon had to blink back the tears .
he smiled at the little girl he now knew to be eleven years old .
yes sidney , '' he said gently as a tender smile touched his lips .
i am . ''
the following morning , while sidney played with her two friends near the yard , scott and steve lyndon took one of the logging trucks and the four by four and drove up to fire lane forty seven , a dirt road that circled around the far end of the northernmost slopes of the preserve .
they found the thicket and after plowing down some of the dense underbrush they discovered the red and white motorhome .
they towed it back to camp and moved it into one of the larger unused storage sheds and closed the doors .
chapter 8 scott ? ''
the man behind the desk looked up to see a tall , slender woman standing in the exterior doorway .
sidney southington , now sidney lyndon , had grown up to be a beautiful young woman .
ten years had passed since he had first encountered the little girl .
much of that part of her childhood was erased from her memory now .
the fall after she had come to live with steve and scott lyndon , torrential downpours had created massive rockslides to the northeast and the skeletons of steven and susan southington were buried under millions of tons of rock .
the two hundred foot deep gorge was now barely one hundred feet deep .
he wondered if they had n't been watching over their daughter and once she had found her new home they were finally able to rest peacefully .
the next spring , scott and sidney had gone through the motorhome , taking what sidney wanted to keep .
that evening , after the little girl was tucked into bed in her own bedroom , scott had returned to the motorhome and found the hidden panel the letter had mentioned .
he had followed the instructions in the metal box and logged onto the internet and went to the obscure website and downloaded the files the letter instructed him to .
he had filled out the information requested then sent the letter to the address in england .
to his surprise , four weeks later , he had received a manila envelope back with a stack of very legal looking documents that stated sidney lyndon was the sister of steven and scott lyndon .
he had not been sure about the 'sister ' idea but after talking it over with his brother they both agreed it would be much better than daughter or niece .
since their parents were both dead and they had no living relatives there would be no family to refute it .
scott had removed all items from the motorhome and had packed them away in boxes in the small attic above the office with the idea that , one day , after sidney grew up , he would pull them out and give them to her allowing her to make the choice as to whether to keep them or not .
the motorhome had been dismantled then buried in a deep ravine in the far reaches of the western slopes of the lyndon property .
two weeks later , an earthquake had buried the red and white vehicle pieces under more than fifty million tons of rock and scott had been sure it was the southingtons way of keeping the secret about their daughter hidden forever .
it had not been easy raising a little girl but with the help of the internet and a lot of books they managed and scott thought they had succeeded quite well .
today she was dressed in a dark blue , long sleeved shirt that was tucked into her tight jeans that were tucked into her high black work boots .
the collar of the shirt , as usual , was turned up and brushed against the bottom of her short curly blonde hair .
a gold , heart shaped locket hung on a gold chain around her neck .
he smiled at her .
yeah sid ? ''
the smile she gave him alighted her blue eyes .
doug wants to know if you want him to bring those logs down from the south slope . ''
scott 's gaze jetted to the calendar then up to the map that covered half of the wall of the office .
yeah , he 'd better .
harwick will be coming to get them monday .
might as well do it now since we 've got rain in the forecast . ''
she nodded and was gone .
sidney had come a long way in ten years .
she had chosen to take home school , an option in this remote county and had learned more than scott thought she could have learned in any classroom .
by the time she was fourteen she was reading and understanding senior high school information and had passed the ged the month after she turned sixteen .
but her studying had not stopped there .
she had , with the help of the internet , sought out and absorbed almost everything she could find on forestry , logging , the environment , and anything else to do with nature .
if it involved the outdoors and summer , sidney knew all there was to know about it .
what had surprised the lyndon boys the most was her desire to learn the logging business .
it was shortly after her sixteenth birthday that she had gotten her regular driver 's license and , three months later , received her commercial and logging licenses .
by the time she was seventeen sidney could drive any vehicle they had , from the largest logging truck to the bulldozer .
scott looked up to see his brother come in from the hallway and go straight to the coffee pot .
doug 's going to bring down those logs from the south slope , '' he informed as he watched steve pour two cups of coffee .
i saw sid cross the yard at a full gallop .
i figured doug had sent her . ''
scott chuckled as he accepted one of the cups before he turned back to his book work .
sidney had not lost her ability or desire to run either .
and she still loved the hills and was on them at every opportunity .
a low throaty growl lifted scott 's gaze to the door and he saw a silver coyote framed in the doorway .
hello duke , '' he said with a smile .
she 's in the big shed . ''
the animal yipped its thanks then bounded off the porch toward the designated building .
that had not changed either .
sidney had retained her friends who had become permanent fixtures around the lyndon logging camp .
actually , the number of animals had grown .
three years after sidney came to live with them duke came into camp one day with two coyote pups .
sidney had learned that their mother , duke 's mate , had been killed and the pups were motherless .
sidney had taken them in and raised them .
midnight , the blackest of the pair , was a hellion and , more than once , sidney 'd had to set him in his place .
princess , was a white female and lived up to her name perfectly .
it was rare for her to step in anything that even closely resembled mud and spent most of her time laying on the porch waiting for sidney .
in the evening when all of the machinery had been turned off and the crew had went home to their respective families , it was common for sidney to go out into the yard and romp and play with the three coyotes , often rolling on the ground with them bouncing on and off her playfully .
tongo would lay on the fringes of the yard and watch quietly , waiting his turn with as much patience as any four hundred pound black bear could have .
when sidney had tired the coyotes out she would get to her feet and look over at tongo and he would raise up and bound toward her , knocking her off her feet when he pounced on her .
they would wrestle for a time before the massive black bear would lay down , totally exhausted and sidney would lay down beside him and they would cuddle together .
indeed , it was quite a remarkable family .
in the wintertime , when the yard was closed , the lyndons would move their base of operations into goldville where they owned property on the outskirts of town .
during the winter they would make deals and plans for the following season .
for the last six winters the three coyotes had joined them and lived with them throughout the winter months , sleeping in a shed that was attached to the back of the heated garage near the rear of their fifty acre lot .
they hunted in the forest that covered most of the back half of the lyndon land , never bothering neighbors or townsfolk .
tongo hibernated in a cave known only to him , sidney and duke , hidden somewhere in the western slopes of the lyndon property .
each spring when they would return to the logging camp tongo would be waiting .
scott heard all three coyotes sound their howl style bark and knew someone was coming up the road .
they made a good doorbell .
it was at least ten seconds later before scott heard the car and looked through the open office door to see a sheriff 's squad come into view .
he got to his feet and went out on the porch to greet the man they all called friend .
scott had never had to tell the sheriff what he had found in that gorge and he was glad for that .
thanks to the information and website he had been directed to , sidney had become a lyndon and that had never been questioned , even when the social security administration had asked for a copy of her birth certificate so she could be issued a social security number .
scott had always been thankful to whoever had the ability to make such legal looking documents and was even more thankful to steve and susan southington for having such a beautiful daughter and gracing the lyndons ' lives with her .
he hoped they were pleased with the way their daughter had been raised .
scott focused on the sheriff .
even though the lyndons were good friends with josh logan , it was unusual for the man to come up to the camp .
howdy scott . ''
the tall , lanky former texan who was dressed in the typical tan uniform extracted himself from the squad car .
he looked across the roof of the car at the three coyotes that were watching him and grinned .
hey there duke . ''
the silver coyote let go with a yipped reply before the three returned to their places princess on the porch , and midnight and duke wherever sidney was .
scott was all smiles at the sheriff 's lack of fear of the coyotes .
the sheriff had protected the coyotes from more than one concerned goldville citizen and now all of the townspeople had accepted the coyotes as a permanent part of the community 's 'dog ' population .
it was n't uncommon for sidney to walk down the streets of the small town with any of the coyotes beside her and receive no different of a look from the townspeople than if she 'd been walking with a german shepherd or hound the two most popular dogs in the town .
he shook the man 's hand .
got time for coffee josh ? ''
i 'll make time , '' the man grinned and followed scott into the office .
howdy steve , '' he nodded to the man at the other desk .
hi josh .
what brings you out this way ?
we usually do n't see you till the snow flies . ''
josh logan took the coffee scott handed him then sank to the chair nearest the front door as he shoved his wide brimmed hat back on his head , revealing a crop of graying hair .
i 'm afraid this ai n't exactly a social call fellas . ''
oh ? ''
both lyndons said in unison .
the sheriff felt his hat being lifted off his head and he looked up as the slender blonde who was standing in the doorway plopped it down on top of her golden curls .
he laughed .
hello darlin ' . ''
one winter , when sidney was twelve , she had shyly asked the sheriff if she could wear his hat .
josh logan , whose grandchildren lived on the other side of the country could not resist those beautiful blue eyes and he had lifted his hat and plopped it down on top of her blonde curls .
from then on , whenever she would see him she would put his hat on her head .
that had not changed as she 'd grown older .
josh still got a kick out of it and how she looked in the too large of hat .
sidney bent down and gave the man a kiss on the cheek , her eyes alighting with devilishness as she crossed the room to the coffee pot .
what do you mean josh ? ''
scott prompted .
well , you know that new guy who bought out the old cummings ranch ? ''
jansen , is n't it ? ''
that 's the one , '' the sheriff confirmed .
somehow he found out about duke and he 's claiming that duke is leading a pack of coyotes and attacking his cattle . ''
duke would n't do that , '' the woman said matter of factly as she turned and leaned against the counter with a cup of coffee in her hands .
i know that darlin ' .
but you know how these new people are .
they got to be drawn a map . ''
so send him over , '' sidney told him .
i 'll draw him a map he wo n't ever lose . ''
the sheriff chuckled .
i 'll bet you would too darlin ' . ''
the man 's smile melted .
i just wanted y'all to know that this guy might be trouble and for you to keep a close eye on duke and his kids . ''
we will josh , '' scott assured .
thanks for letting us know . ''
why did n't jansen just come over and talk to us himself ? ''
steve wanted to know .
josh ran his fingers through the thick bush of gray hair that covered the top of his head .
damned if i know .
big city boys got big city ideas . ''
he took a gulp of his coffee .
they come out here to hicksville and think they can bring their big city ideas with 'em .
that 's when my paperwork doubles and stays that way till they either settle down to country life or go back to their big cities . ''
he grinned .
i 'll tell him to get his saddle over here and talk to you if he makes any more noise . ''
thanks josh , '' scott smiled .
i 'm sure sid could set him in his place . ''
the sheriff almost choked on his coffee when he started to laugh .
he looked at the womans beautiful face and hourglass figure then winked at the two men .
that little filly could set half the county in their place and not even half try . ''
sidney lyndon was used to this kind of ribbing .
she got it from the crew , especially her brothers , all the time .
she downed her coffee , turned the powder blue cup upside down on the towel beside the pot then strode across the room and up to the man she could almost see eye to eye with .
now sheriff , '' she said in her typical soft , angelic tone .
you know i 'm just waitin ' for you . ''
josh logan laughed outloud then grinned as he lifted his hat from her head and stuck it back on his own .
ya ' got a mighty long wait darlin ' , '' he teased as his eyes twinkled .
the blonde gave the sheriff a kiss on the cheek , tossed a wave at scott and steve then disappeared out the door .
the uniformed man looked after her then shook his head .
that girl is absolutely remarkable . ''
scott and steve exchanged glances before scott smiled .
that she is .
chapter 9 scott awoke to what sounded like a distant rifle shot .
he sat up in bed and listened .
when a second one came he leaped out of bed and rushed to the hallway to see his sister standing there .
where 's duke ? ''
he asked through the lack light .
in my room , '' sidney told him , wiping sleep from her eyes .
she motioned to her closed bedroom door .
they 're all in there . ''
when the third rifle shot came , the woman 's gaze jetted to the nearby window on the other wall .
that 's coming from the south slopes , '' she said in a low voice .
about two hundred yards out . ''
scott had always marveled at how she could pinpoint a direction and distance so quickly and was sure it had to do with her five years with tongo and duke .
that 'd put it on our land . ''
i hear a truck . ''
he strained to hear something in the quiet but knew , from past experience , that her hearing was much better than his something else he attributed to her time in the wild .
what kind ? ''
not a big one .
a little smaller than our new four by four . ''
their new four by four , which they had purchased the previous winter , was a dodge with a huge hemi engine under the hood .
when another shot rang out , scott 's gaze jetted to the woman he could barely see .
that one was closer .
so is the truck .
i 'm going to turn on the yard lights , '' she told her brother and went through a nearby door and into the kitchen .
moments later scott saw the main yard lights come on and the hallway filled with spots of dusky light that filtered in through the four windows that lined the north side of the long hallway that connected the three sections of the cabin .
he saw the blonde who was dressed in black pajamas stop near a window .
be careful sid , '' he told her .
the guy might be trigger happy . ''
i 'm watching . ''
scott could now hear the truck and told his sister so .
he 's coming down the south slope , '' she whispered .
he 'll be in the yard in a little bit . ''
her gaze jetted to the window and , a minute later , here he comes . ''
less than five seconds later the north shed was lit up by the glow of headlights and scott heard the roar of an engine as it was gunned .
he heard the squeal of dusty brakes then heard a thud before another rifle shot rang out .
the pair ducked as glass shattered somewhere not too far away just before the roar of the engine rose again and the truck raced out .
scott raised up and looked out the window to see something laying in the middle of the yard .
what 's that ? ''
he whispered .
a coyote . ''
do you know it ? ''
no .
it 's a grey .
most greys stay south of here , lower in the valley . ''
sidney shot a glance at her brother .
i 'm going to go see it . ''
be careful sid , '' scott called after her knowing there was no sense in telling her no .
she still had too much wild blood in her to be stopped .
he watched her walk through the yard in her bare feet .
she looked around then stopped beside the motionless animal .
she squatted down , touched the fur tenderly , then got up and came back to the cabin .
she 's dead .
scott sighed and hugged her tenderly .
i 'm sorry . ''
he felt her arms go around him and felt her shoulders tremble .
all they 're trying to do is survive .
too many people and not enough hunting ground .
i 'll take duke and we 'll bury her in the morning . ''
did you get a good look at the truck ? ''
scott asked , knowing her keen night vision .
i noticed it was a ford and it looked black . ''
it was dark blue , '' she corrected and shifted her gaze out the window .
two men in it , both had cowboy hats on , something like josh wears but dark brown .
the passenger was older and had gray hair .
the driver was younger with dark hair . ''
did you catch the license number ? ''
part of it .
california truck plate , one t seven two something . ''
we 'll call the sheriff first thing in the morning .
by then we 'll be able to find out which window he shot out . ''
left one on the big shed , '' she told him then smiled at his expression .
sometimes it pays to have friends in the wild . ''
scott chuckled then gave her a kiss on the cheek .
goodnight sid . ''
goodnight scott , '' she smiled then disappeared into her bedroom and shut the door .
chapter 10 the next morning , just after six , scott strolled into the kitchen to see sidney sitting at the table drinking a cup of coffee .
she was dressed for the day , today wearing a dark gray shirt over her jeans .
she was staring down into her cup and looked up when he entered .
you 're up early , '' he noted as he went to the coffee pot .
i had some checking to do . ''
oh ? ''
it was not unusual for sidney to go out before dawn and roam the hills with the coyotes and tongo .
he turned and leaned against the counter as he sipped his coffee .
duke and i went out looking for the grey 's den . ''
did you find it ? ''
the blonde head bobbed .
she had two pups . ''
scott was almost afraid to ask his next question as he sank to the table across from his sister .
were they ok ? ''
i brought them back with me .
princess is watching them right now .
they 're eyes are barely open scott . ''
he reached across the table , covering her hand with his .
he smiled tenderly .
they 're in good hands now sid .
they 'll be fine with you and princess taking care of them . ''
the woman offered a small smile that made scott think of an eleven year old girl .
her hand curled around his tightly .
you 're the best brother i could have . ''
she looked toward the window .
here comes the sheriff . ''
scott looked at the window and only then heard the sound of the car .
he grinned at her .
you and your keen hearing .
better pour him a cup of coffee .
he 's going to want something for being dragged out here this early . ''
scott opened the kitchen door as the familiar sheriff extracted himself from the squad .
josh logans gaze jetted to the pile of fur in the middle of the yard then bounce to meet his and scott saw it fill with fearful question .
scott lyndon shook his head and saw the relieved expression come to the uniformed man 's face .
mornin ' , '' josh logan said as he came up on the porch .
where 's my ... '' he grinned when sidney appeared in the doorway and stuffed a filled coffee mug in his hand .
... coffee . ''
something in the depths of her blue eyes told the sheriff that his hat would be staying on his own head today .
he followed the two lyndons into the kitchen .
what 's up ? ''
we had a visitor last night , '' scott told the sheriff as the trio sank to one of the trestle style tables in the room .
the sheriff jammed his thumb over his shoulder , aiming at the dead coyote outside .
i gather that 's the calling card he left . ''
scott nodded .
damn , '' josh said and pulled a notebook out of his pocket .
ok , give me the particulars . ''
scott relayed the information then let sidney fill in the rest .
and then he took off out of here like a bat out of a sunrise , '' sidney finished .
you said the plate was california truck one t seven two something ? ''
the woman nodded .
dark blue ford four by four .
like a midnight blue . ''
josh logan had learned , long ago , that this woman could see and hear things most humans could not .
he attributed it to her love of and rapport with wild animals and left it at that .
he was not sure he wanted to know the truth .
what window 'd he shoot out ? ''
scott had seen the broken window when he had checked the yard just after sunrise .
the lower left window on the big shed . ''
the sheriff sipped his coffee then leaned back in his chair and looked from one lyndon to the other .
would either of you recognize them if you saw them again ? ''
i would , '' sidney replied evenly .
josh looked to scott for an answer .
i do n't think so .
i did n't have a good angle and it was too dark . ''
the sheriff nodded .
both were answers he was expecting .
he closed his notebook and tucked it back into his pocket .
do you want to file a complaint ? ''
he saw scott lyndon look at his sister and knew something passed between their gazes .
i could get him for trespassing , disturbing the peace and destruction of property , for starters , '' he informed .
unfortunately , there 's nothing i can do about the coyote he killed and dumped out . ''
you know who it is ? ''
scott asked .
i think so .
the truck description and plate prefix matches jansen 's .
i 'd need a positive id but he 's right at the top of my suspect list . ''
scott looked back at his sister .
what do you think sid ? ''
she sighed softly then shook her head .
we can replace the glass by noon and trespassing is n't that big of a deal .
i can take care of the grey and everything else . ''
scott knew the everything else was the pups .
he slid his gaze back to the sheriff .
we wo n't file a complaint , '' he told the uniformed man .
but could you do me a favor ? ''
josh nodded .
could you find a way to let jansen know that we know it was him and if he comes over here again we will file a complaint . ''
the sheriff smiled .
he had always liked the lyndons .
they were good people and they did n't rile easily .
they were good to their neighbors and had helped many townspeople out during their sixteen years here .
they were a quiet bunch , never bothered anyone and rarely asked for favors .
he downed his coffee as he got to his feet .
he rinsed out the cup then sat it upside down in the sink before he turned .
you bet i can . ''
he tapped the brim of his hat in salute then headed for the door .
i think i 'll take a little ride south , '' he gave them a wink then went out the door .
chapter 11 scott tilted his chair back then perched his booted feet on the porch railing and took a long swallow of his beer as he watched sidney romp and play with the coyotes .
it had been two weeks since the incident and josh logan had assured him that he had gotten his point across to jansen when he had visited him the morning after the incident .
everything had been quiet and had returned to normal at lyndon logging .
he heard a whine from nearby and looked down at the two grey and black pups who were sitting in the blanket lined box next to him .
they were looking over the edge of the box at the goings on in the yard and even though they were too young to join in on the fun , scott could tell they wanted to .
he heard sidney giggle as duke poked her in the ribs with his snout then watched her grab him by the neck and wrestle him to the ground .
the coyote wiggled free then scooted away from her only to yip happily then rush back for more .
scott chuckled at the playfulness .
when duke poked her in the ribs again he jumped out of sidney 's way then raced for the hills with the blonde and midnight close behind .
scott looked down at the white coyote beside him and when she looked up at him he smiled .
we 'll let the kids go off and play and us fuddy duddys can sit on the porch . ''
he reached down and scratched her ears then smiled when she nuzzled his hand .
just then he heard a low throaty growl in the depths of the coyote 's throat that was followed by a single snarling howl and , saw her gaze rifle to the inbound driveway .
he frowned .
easy girl , '' he said softly and only then heard the sound of an approaching vehicle .
when he saw a dark blue ford four by four come around the corner scott 's gaze narrowed .
his fingers curled a little tighter around the coyote 's neck as he heard her growl increase .
shhh , '' he told her and smiled inwardly when she quieted down .
scott wondered if sidney had heard the truck approach or princess 's warning howl and looked up along the slopes but saw no sign of her bright red shirt .
scott 's checked the trucks license plate .
california truck one t seven two four six one .
dan jansen .
he watched the man get out of the truck and come toward him .
scott thought him to be in his mid twenties .
he was a relatively handsome man and scott thought he walked like a city boy in cowboy duds .
hello , '' the man said in a tenor voice as he stopped on the other side of the railing and draped his left arm over it .
scott nodded a quick greeting .
what can i do for ya ' ? ''
i 'm looking for either scott or sidney lyndon .
i 'm dan jansen . ''
before scott could tell him he had found one of them , he heard a piercing , howling cry that seemed to reverberate across the hills .
oh shit , '' he thought and his gaze rifled to the underbrush on the far side of the yard .
he heard and felt princess 's growl low in her throat and he clamped onto her neck tightly but not tight enough and the animal pulled back from scott 's grasp then leaped over the railing and bounded into the yard .
scott looked at the man in front of him to see his wide gaze on the yard .
his face was now the color of ashes as three coyotes formed a line across the middle of the open area twenty yards away .
the hair on the backs of their necks was raised and their teeth were barred .
all three were emitting deep throaty growls that would curdle most men 's blood .
scott thought it only fair to warn the man even though it would serve him right to get confronted by the three animals .
i would n't make any sudden moves if i were you jansen , '' he said cooly and met the mans wide eyed gaze .
just then scott saw a glimmer of red appear beyond the coyotes and he focused on the blonde who stepped out of the underbrush at the far side of the yard .
he could see the fire in her eyes even from this distance and knew precisely who that fire was aimed at .
her slender hands were clamped down on her jeaned hips and she was coming toward the back of the coyotes at a slow and steady pace .
well , '' scott drawled and looked at jansen again to see his eyes were also on the blonde .
i 'm scott lyndon , '' he told the man .
and that lady in front of you is my sister sidney . ''
dan jansen shot a quick glance at the man on the porch before he turned his gaze back to the woman who was now flanked by the trio of coyotes .
she was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen , bar none .
her blue eyes , even from this distance , glimmered with a light he could not describe .
her face , although he could not read it , was flawless .
she had a body men would kill to hold and she walked with the grace of a gazelle .
he swallowed hard once , twice , then took a deep breath .
when the sheriff had come over and told him that scott and sidney lyndon had decided not to file a complaint he had tried to play dumb .
but after the evidence was laid in front of him he admitted that it had been him and his ranch foreman who had dumped the coyote they had killed in the middle of the lyndon logging yard .
sheriff logan had warned him not to tread on the lyndons or he would be up against something he did not want to face .
jansen had wondered about that warning and had thought about it for two weeks before he had decided to drive over to the logging firm .
never had he thought he would be facing this !
not only a pack of wild coyotes with their teeth barred , but this beautiful woman .
sidney ?
he had thought sidney lyndon was a man .
this was no man !
he watched the woman start a slow , steady pace toward him watched the coyotes match her stride and he swallowed again then backed up until he found himself wedged in the jutted corner of the building .
he could see the full of her eyes now and realized that glimmer was not a glimmer at all but a deep , raging inferno .
he swallowed again then caught his breath as she stopped less than six feet from him .
what do you want jansen ? ''
he blinked as he heard her voice for the first time and thought it sounded like a choir of angels .
he swallowed again and pressed himself tightly into the corner .
i , .. '' he stammered and swallowed again .
he looked down at the three coyotes one silver , one black and one white and heard them growl , saw their sharp fangs and he swallowed hard before looking at the angel in front of him again .
i just wanted to make amends , '' he managed through his parched throat .
amends ? ''
sidney grated .
there was that voice again .
dan jansen felt his heart pound in his chest .
he nodded meekly .
when her hand extended and she pointed toward the porch jansen had the instant urge to get down on his knees and kiss the slender hand .
make amends to them , '' he heard her angelic voice demand and he looked at the box and saw two pair of innocent eyes blink at him .
you killed their mother . ''
dan jansen blinked back at the innocence before his gaze shifted to sidney lyndon again .
any fight he 'd had in him drained away as did his desire to stand .
jansen felt himself sliding down along the wedge that was holding him and he sank to his haunches as his gaze hit the ground .
she was killing my cattle , '' he said in weak defense .
you took away her hunting ground with your damned ranches , '' the woman snarled .
you forced her and all others like her into a corner .
they did what comes naturally .
they have to eat to survive .
they were here first .
it was their land .
you stole it from them then had the gall to kill them when they could n't survive on what you had left for them . ''
i have to survive too . ''
you can survive in the big city , '' sidney shot back .
but it was n't enough , was it ?
you had to come out to their land , you had to spread out and take over the countryside , taking away what was theirs . ''
she took a step forward .
the snarling coyotes matched her stride .
the man 's gaze rifled up and widened as he saw the barred fangs and heard the throaty growls .
he shrank back into the corner farther .
how does it feel to be pushed into a corner jansen ? ''
she took another step forward .
how does it feel to have no place to go ? ''
dan jansen swallowed again then sighed and hung his head .
i 'm sorry , '' he said feebly .
right at that moment , dan jansen felt as if he had been chewed out by the coyotes themselves as if it were them telling him off .
i 'm really sorry . ''
sidney emitted a low , throaty sound then stepped back two paces .
the coyotes matched her movement .
get up and sit down on the porch .
you 'll help me feed the pups . ''
the dark haired man rose obediently and after a glance at the coyotes , jansen moved along the railing to the break in it then ascended the steps and sank into the first empty chair he came to .
dan jansen was not the kind of man who cared to take orders from anyone .
but he knew he would gladly take orders from the angel with the blonde hair , with or without the coyotes flanking her .
he dared a glance to see all three coyotes watching him .
their teeth were no longer showing but he could still hear a chorus of low throaty growls emitting from them .
he looked at the man two chairs away to see him watching him intently .
welcome to lyndon logging , '' scott said as his sister stepped up on the porch and disappeared into the house .
he had watched the entire occurrence with both lightness and heaviness in his heart .
he knew what sidney was going through and he also knew what dan jansen was going through .
he felt sorry for jansen but knew he deserved what he had gotten .
scott had seen the expression on the man 's face when he had first laid eyes on his sister and knew the rancher had fallen for sidney lyndon , hard .
it was evident in his eyes , in his face , and in his voice .
he wondered if his sister had seen it was pretty sure she had .
he doubted if she would have him helping her feed the pups if she had n't .
although he had never seen the angry side of sidney southington lyndon , he knew it was there .
and , when it was kindled , as it was this evening , it was like a raging wildfire .
there was no way to stop it .
it had to burn out by itself .
scott heard his sister leave the kitchen and come down the hallway and he looked up as she stepped out onto the porch with two baby bottles in her hand .
you 'll feed tip , '' she told jansen and handed him one of the bottles .
she went to the box that sat beside her brother 's chair and met his gaze for a moment before she reached for the darker of the two coyotes .
she turned and handed the pup to the man before taking the other that she had named duchess .
she gave her brother a small smile that melted the remaining anger from her expression before she sat down in the chair beside him .
she laid the pup across her legs then laid her hand on its back gently before she lowered the nippled end of the bottle to its mouth .
her gaze slid to jansen to see him watching her .
do it just like i do , '' she told him succinctly then watched him mimic her actions .
she nodded when the pup took the nipple and began sucking .
i really am sorry miss lyndon , '' dan jansen repeated , his gaze on the mound of fluffy fur in his lap .
consider the subject closed jansen .
but if i ever find out you went out hunting coyote again i 'll bring the whole pack and come after you . ''
the man 's gaze rifled to the three coyotes that were still watching him .
yes ma'am . ''
scott met sidney 's gaze and he smiled then gave her a nod then mouthed , it 's ok , '' something they still shared from their first times together .
when she smiled at him scott laid his hand on her arm and squeezed it tenderly then looked down at the pup she was holding .
sidney looked at the three coyotes then emitted a low , throaty sound and watched them drop to their haunches where they were then lay down .
the man to her left gave her a quizzical glance then looked at the animals .
although they were still watching him , they were not in attack position now .
he decided to chance a comment .
you are very good with animals miss lyndon . ''
when her head swiveled and he saw that beautiful blue gaze his heart melted again but then he saw the fire was still in her eyes and he caught his breath and dropped his gaze to the pup on his lap .
i 'm sorry , '' he muttered .
since you 're so sorry you wo n't have a problem coming over every evening to help me feed the pups of the mother you killed will you jansen . ''
no ma'am . ''
scott turned his head and looked the other way to hide a smile .
when he looked back he caught the look of his sister .
the twinkle in her eyes told him she had seen dan jansen 's reactions too .
just then a deep , reverberating growl rolled up from the underbrush .
two of the occupants of the porch recognized the voice .
dan jansen 's gaze shot to the far side of the yard and widened sharply .
that sounds like a ... '' he stopped when a massive black bear appeared near the outer rim of the yard .
bear ! ''
he snapped and was on his feet instantly , clutching the coyote pup in his hand .
sit down jansen . ''
dan jansen looked at the massive black bear again then looked down at the pup .
why was she ordering him to sit there when there was a black bear less than twenty yards away ?
that was insane !
they should get in the house where it would be safer .
i said sit down .
feed tip , she ordered and watched the man sink to the chair and cradle the small coyote on his knees again .
sidney handed the pup she was holding to her bother .
finish feeding duchess for me scott .
i forgot about tongo . ''
scott smiled and took the pup and the bottle and after laying the pup across his legs , leveled the bottle at the gaping mouth .
when dan jansen saw the woman get to her feet his gaze lifted with her and he caught his breath when her beautiful blue gaze meet his .
do n't move , '' she told him and saw his meek nod before she stepped off the porch .
as sidney moved between the three coyotes and started a slow , steady pace across the yard toward the bear dan jansen 's eyes widened then shot to scott .
what 's she doing ? ''
watch , scott said .
and learn . ''
he looked back at the blonde just in time to see her stop in the middle of the yard and he heard the low growl vibrate in her throat .
tongo 's response came only a moment before the mass of fur bounded toward her .
scott heard dan jansen 's gasp just before the bear pounced on sidney , knocking her to the ground .
and then the wrestling match was on .
he chuckled as the pair rolled together then saw tongo bury his snout in sidney 's side and heard her giggle before she grabbed him around the neck and wrestled him to his back .
scott glanced over at the other man on the porch to see his wide gaze locked on the wrestling match and his mouth hanging open .
it was five minutes later when tongo collapsed with exhaustion and sidney plopped down at his side and cuddled against the massive beast .
my god ! ''
scott looked at dan jansen and smiled .
this is our evening entertainment . ''
they do this every night ? ''
it 's usually more lively but it was interrupted tonight . ''
sidney stopped at the foot of the steps with all four animals beside her .
she perched her booted foot on the top rise .
never seen friends wrestle jansen ? ''
friends ? ''
she reached down and scratched the bear 's ear .
yes , friends .
you do know the meaning of the word , correct ? ''
scott smirked .
dan jansen sighed and nodded then looked down at the pup who was still sucking on a bottle that was now empty .
i think tip 's done eating . ''
sidney rose onto the porch and took the pup from the man .
she nuzzled her nose to his then released a soft throaty sound before she put him back in the box .
she turned and extended her hand then took the bottle into the kitchen and rinsed it before returning to the porch .
you see jansen , '' she said as she returned to the yard and stopped in the middle of the coyotes and bear .
there is room for all of us to live in this world . ''
she looked at her brother .
i 'll be back , '' she told him and , after releasing a low growl from her throat , spun on her heels and took off across the yard on a dead run with the three coyotes and the bear right behind her .
scott nuzzled duchess ' nose then laid the pup in the box with her brother before he sat the empty bottle on the deck beside his chair .
he looked at the man to see him watching the red blur that was moving up the distant slope at a fast pace .
is she always like that ? ''
scott lyndon looked at the distant form of his sister .
no , '' he said casually .
she 's actually taking it pretty slow tonight . ''
i did n't mean ... '' i know what you meant .
scott met dan jansens gaze .
whether you decide to take my advice or not jansen is up to you .
but , if you want to hang around my sister as we both know you do , then you need to gain a new respect for those she calls her friends . ''
you know ? ''
scott nodded slowly .
i know and , '' he paused long enough to look at the red blur that was already halfway up the north slope , tossing it a casual gesture .
so does she . ''
i feel like such a fool . ''
for which reason ? ''
all of them .
i came over here tonight to tell you that i wo n't be bothering you anymore .
i planned on selling the ranch and moving back to the city .
country life is just too slow for me . ''
his gaze wandered sideways and found the red spot on the hill .
then i saw your sister .
i fell head over heels in love with her on sight .
when she spoke , i melted .
i felt like hell when she lit into me , when she told me i 'd killed those pups ' mother . ''
he looked at scott lyndon .
i felt as if the entire coyote population was chewing me out . ''
you 're not that far off base .
do you still plan on selling the ranch and leaving ? ''
dan jansen watched the red dot disappear behind a patch of dense underbrush .
i do n't know if i want to after meeting sidney .
i do n't think i could live without her . ''
he bit his lower lip .
have you ever felt like that about someone so soon after you met them ? ''
scott looked toward the slope , watched the red spot flitter along the hill and smiled as his mind raced back ten years .
yeah , i have . ''
any advice for a lovesick puppy ? ''
sid gave you the key to the door .
what you do with it is up to you . ''
what do you mean ? ''
she told you that you 'd come over every evening and help her feed the pups .
if she did n't want you here , i assure you , you 'd be gone already .
one sound from her and those coyotes would have run you off the place . ''
does she actually talk to them ? ''
yes , and they respond too . ''
that 's remarkable , '' dan jansen commented .
scott lyndon smiled at the group that was racing across the distant hillside .
yes , and that 's sidney .
remarkable . ''
the end the friendship of mortals by audrey driscoll book 1 of the herbert west series smashwords edition published by audrey driscoll on smashwords copyright 2010 by audrey driscoll isbn 978 0 9866369 0 5 epub version all rights reserved .
without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above , no part of this publication may be reproduced , stored in or introduced into a retrieval system , or transmitted , in any form , or by any means electronic , mechanical , photocopying , recording or otherwise without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the above publisher of this book .
this is a work of fiction .
names , characters , places , brands , media and incidents are either the products of the authors imagination or are used fictitiously .
smashwords edition license notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then you should return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the authors work .
cover art by damonza.com dedication to howard phillips lovecraft contents prologue part 1 the undertakers son chapter 1 chapter 2 chapter 3 chapter 4 chapter 5 chapter 6 chapter 7 chapter 8 chapter 9 part 2 the american volunteer chapter 10 chapter 11 chapter 12 chapter 13 part 3 the necromancer chapter 14 chapter 15 chapter 16 chapter 17 chapter 18 chapter 19 chapter 20 chapter 21 chapter 22 part 4 providence a note from the author other books in the herbert west series preview of book 2 the friendship of mortals a novel of arkham prologue what do i remember ?
i could say , everything i need to , and nothing more .
but if i am being truthful and tonight i must be truthful , for in vino veritas , i will admit that certain of my memories have been too heavy to carry around with me .
i have entrusted them to a mental root cellar dark , cold and difficult of access .
the key to this place , unlike most keys , permits itself to be found only on nights such as this , when i have drunk deeply enough to set aside daytime scruples .
here it is , small and ornate , a subtle thing .
and here is the little door .
insert the key with trembling fingers , and turn .
the latch clicks and the door opens , revealing a thin slice of darkness .
let me pause a moment before venturing inward .
intentions straight ?
resolution in place ?
all right , charles milburn , what is it that you remember ?
darkness and light the inherent darkness of that town ancient arkham , on the miskatonic and the darkness of secrets .
alma 's bright hair , shining like rippled silk .
her silvery laughter , the touch of her hand warm like amber or october sunshine .
but these are only feuilles mortes , escapees from the blue dusk of dead days .
they were not what drew me to arkham and kept me there , unreasoning , unarguing , until the end .
herbert west what was it about him the steely glance of his grey eyes , with the accompanying flash from his gold rimmed spectacles ?
his voice , soft but compelling , saying , dont be an idiot , charles , just get on with it .
and i generally did , breaking laws and the conventions of my upbringing for reasons that i have never yet been able to define .
at first there was the certainty that what he said was the truth , despite the doubts thrown up by my slower mind .
but it wasnt always the truth , was it ?
and so , herbert , finally , to the end your hand in mine , suddenly lifeless .
the blank stare of your eyes .
the weight of your body as i carried you to the cellar .
it was dead weight i was sure of that then , and i am now .
almost sure .
the cellar what happened there ?
i was exhausted after a sleepless night and by my grief at your death , desperate for visions and wonders .
and i saw your eyes open .
i heard you speak .
but before i could be sure of anything , you were gone .
i have no answers , only doubts and questions .
they are my legacy from you , herbert .
because of you , i have become a man who holds conversations with himself , with his old ghosts or with no one at all .
would it help if i remembered everything , in order , from the beginning ?
would the end look different then ?
probably not i have tried to take this journey before and failed , but this night will be long and i do not think i shall sleep .
part 1 the undertakers son chapter 1 charles , my boy , old crawford said , i cant imagine why you would want to bother with a benighted backwater like miskatonic university .
its only fifty miles from boston , i said .
hardly the back of beyond .
thats not what i meant .
a university is a place of higher learning , not a jumped up lunatic asylum .
oh surely it isnt that bad , mr. crawford , i said .
after all , its been there since 1738 .
so has bedlam .
at least that long , and its still full of lunatics .
persistence is no guarantee of quality .
but what is it about miskatonic that makes you say that ?
crawford was a harvard man through and through .
i had heard him say similar if less venomous things about yale and princeton .
but hed stopped short of calling them lunatic asylums .
well , just look at some of the faculty theres one fellow there , now whats his name ?
quidlington , quizzington , something like that .
hes supposed to be a professor of philosophy , but ive read some of the drivel hes published .
it has nothing to do with philosophy , for one thing , and no grounding in scientific or logical principles of any sort .
i wouldnt be surprised to find that they have a school of alchemy at miskatonic .
or that the medical school teaches divination by entrails , as though its the dark ages , not 1910 !
believe me , you dont want to get mixed up with a place like that .
they do seem to have a lot of money , though , he added .
lots of wealthy alumni , eager to keep the place going for some reason .
well , if there are that many graduates with money to spare for their alma mater , it must be doing something right , i said .
crawford snorted .
you cant assume they made their money as a result of what they learned at miskatonic .
when i said my goodbyes , i reassured mr. crawford i would think long and hard before i accepted any offer of employment from miskatonic .
he was an old friend of my late fathers and a man worthy of my respect .
but of course i did no such thing , even though i found out afterward that there was some basis for his misgivings .
for miskatonic was the university that sent a team of professors and students to the antarctic in a search for extraterrestrial life forms .
the search was successful , but its results had to be suppressed because of developments that were too sensational even for a sensation loving public .
then there was walter gilman , a student of mathematics who seemed to have found a way to transcend the strictures of time and space , but who met his end in a bizarre attack by rats .
these things happened after i left arkham , but i took care to keep myself informed of its doings .
i left arkham but it never left me .
how can i describe my first impressions of arkham ?
old it was , certainly , and dark .
a dark city , even in the bright daylight of a september afternoon .
as a bostonian , i was used to narrow streets and gambrel roofs , but it was not architecture alone that created the darkness of arkham , although the sepia and garnet coloured bricks of which many of the buildings were made certainly contributed to it .
its situation in the river valley caused mists to gather and the air to seem heavier than in the surrounding countryside .
change was slow in arkham , much slower than elsewhere , even in this century of spectacular change .
whatever the reason , people sometimes spoke of the arkham malaise .
some could not abide it and left , never to return .
others , artists mainly , throve on it , until it sickened them .
i found it strangely congenial , until the end .
when i first saw the town , in the late afternoon , with its buildings reflected in the dark mirror of the miskatonic river , i knew that i had come to a place where something waited for me .
at that moment , before i had even seen the university or the library , before i had been interviewed , i knew i had come home .
two weeks later , in the autumn of 1910 , i moved my few possessions into a couple of furnished rooms in a house on peabody street and took up my duties as cataloguer of greek and latin in the library of miskatonic university .
cataloguers are the invisible librarians .
people who use libraries rarely consider why the books are arranged as they are , although many believe they should be arranged differently .
they flip through the catalogue cards with varying degrees of excitement , impatience , even rage , never thinking that someone must have written the descriptions , selected the classification numbers and assigned the subject headings .
cataloguers do this , weaving the web of words and numbers in unvisited rooms .
mine is very much a profession in which the work is its own reward .
at the time i came to miskatonic , handwritten cards were being replaced by typewritten ones .
the studious sound of pens scraping along on card stock had been replaced by the rather more lively one of typewriter keys .
the fine library hand i had taken such pains to learn was nearly obsolete .
many thousands of these cards , in their ordered arrangement within specially constructed wooden cabinets , constituted the public card catalogue , which occupied the echoing main hall of the library with its tessellated floor , dark beams and high , arched windows .
we who ministered to it were solemn and concentrated as we worked , for we knew ourselves to be gathering the shards of knowledge , ordering them for posterity and fixing them in place with rods of brass .
i have seen many cataloguing departments in my time , but miskatonics was the first one i grew to know intimately .
it was typical , a maze of desks and book carts and cabinets .
if i were led there blindfold , i would instantly know where i was from the smell of the place a compound of dust , printers ink , old leather , new buckram , mingled aromas of bag lunches from the staff room , and a suspicion of pipe smoke from runcibles office .
my desk was in an alcove , along with two wooden cabinets containing the few dozen shelflist drawers given over to the area of greek and latin literature .
i was fortunate in that i had to myself a window .
it overlooked a small bricked square where the library adjoined the arts building .
i rarely saw anyone walk through it .
nothing grew there except mosses and golden lichens , which patterned the garnet coloured bricks of the wall like strange flowers .
the university librarian was dr. henry armitage , a scholar of great repute , who at this time was at the midpoint of a long and distinguished career which , nearly twenty years later , would culminate in something very like an exorcism .
my immediate superior was peter runcible , a perpetually disgruntled man , at once ashamed to be a mere librarian and resentful of those who did not respect his title of principal cataloguer and head of the cataloguing department .
one day , a few months after i took up my post , i was in the book stacks , engaged in tracking down some old volumes of cicero .
i had found the information i needed and was on my way back to the cataloguing department , when i noticed several large books slumped on their shelf like victims of a street accident .
they were victims indeed , i thought , as i bent down to straighten them , of a careless shelver who really should be taken to task .
as i rose to my feet , someone spoke behind me .
young mr. milburn , said dr. armitage .
so runcible has you shelf reading now ?
no sir , i replied .
i had an errand in the roman literature section a cataloguing matter .
i noticed that these books were falling over and stopped to straighten them .
i hate to see books in pain .
i stopped , blushing , when i realized what i had said .
books in pain !
repeated dr. armitage , with a laugh .
spoken like a true bibliophile .
do you collect ?
no sir , but i feel for books .
theyre like us in some ways .
well , i cant reproach you for looking out for the welfare of the collection , said dr. armitage .
he hesitated .
youre a classicist , arent you ?
of course you are honours in greek and latin from amherst .
how would you like to be the keeper of the necronomicon ?
i dont know , sir .
what is it that i would be doing ?
and what , i wondered , is the necronomicon ?
dealing with a bunch of confounded nuisances , armitage replied .
or , to be serious , with researchers into the obscure and the occult .
come to my office , if you can spare a few minutes .
ill describe the job and you can decide if you want it .
the librarys administration office occupied a spacious set of rooms on the second floor .
i had been there only a few times , enough to have developed a healthy respect for miss edith hardy , personal secretary to the university librarian .
she gave me a sharp look as i followed dr. armitage into his office .
she must have thought that the new cataloguer was being called on the carpet for some misdemeanour .
i saw a flicker of amusement pass over her face as she returned to her typewriter .
what do you know about the necronomicon ?
asked dr. armitage .
not a great deal , i said , carefully .
its a work of medieval mysticism , i suppose you could call it , said dr. armitage .
miskatonics copy is a relatively late edition , printed in the 17th century , in spain .
but its origins certainly are much older than that 8th century , i am told .
the author was an arab of yemen , abdul alhazred .
is it in arabic ?
i asked .
because thats a language i do not know at all .
no , ours is a latin translation , by one olaus wormius .
it was bequeathed to miskatonic by an alumnus .
scholars write to me from all over the country , pleading to be permitted a sight of it .
im too busy to deal with all that correspondence .
i thought i had solved the problem when i appointed john bowen to the task .
he was the obvious choice , being the rare books librarian .
but now that hes on sabbatical at the bodleian , i have to find someone else .
what about miss dodge ?
i asked .
shes mr. bowens replacement as rare books librarian , isnt she ?
dr. armitage sighed .
yes she is , he said .
but theres a tradition , i suppose you could call it , here at miskatonic , that the necronomicon is not fit to be viewed by respectable women .
some of the illustrations are thought to be excessive .
and the book is considered to be evil , for some reason .
its probably nonsense , but altogether it seems politic to appoint a man to the job .
well , milburn , what do you say ?
id like to do it , sir , i said .
it might be an interesting experience .
oh itll be interesting all right .
you cant imagine some of the characters youll have to deal with .
well , shall i introduce you to the tome ?
he took a key from his desk drawer and led me to a formidable steel door at the end of a short hallway .
inside the vault , a table occupied most of the small space between ranks of drawers .
he unlocked one and carefully lifted out a volume bound in black leather and fastened with tarnished silver clasps .
this is it , he said , placing it on the table .
i have heard people say , in late years , that the necronomicon does not exist , has never existed , that it was the creation of a pulp fiction writer from providence .
this is not true .
it exists .
i have held a copy in my hands , have turned its pages , have read sections of it .
it did not corrupt me or strike me blind , although some of the illustrations were disturbing .
eventually , it did something to me , but of a more subtle nature .
it was a quarto sized volume , printed on a fine grade of laid paper , in a type which to my eye seemed archaic for the 17th century .
the binding was black cowhide , rather coarse in texture but well made .
the heavy silver clasps were , like the typeface , archaic , making the book appear older than it was .
it is not true , by the way , that it is bound in human skin this is another foolish notion that its notoriety has generated .
dr. armitage described the procedure for examining prospective researchers , finishing with , well , i must hurry along now .
let me put the book away and ask miss hardy to give you the keys you will need .
miss hardy was less than impressed by this request .
she looked me up and down as though she doubted i was clean enough to enter her well ordered realm .
she turned a questioning eye toward dr. armitage .
are you certain this young man can deal properly with the researchers ?
she asked .
some of them are very persistent , you know .
i have every confidence in mr. milburns abilities to distinguish a sincere researcher from a fraudulent one , replied dr. armitage .
please give him the keys to the vault and show him the small interview room .
then he was gone .
miss hardy turned back to me .
i trust that dr. armitage has described the procedures you are to follow , she said , and proceeded to describe them all over again , in great detail .
you realize , of course , that you must not admit anyone to the vault .
researchers must remain in the interview room .
you bring them the books they need , one at a time , but only after you are satisfied as to their motives and qualifications .
and you must under no circumstances leave any of them alone with a book , especially that one .
at the end of her lecture she removed a set of keys from a cupboard and gave them to me .
i was profuse in my reassurances that i would observe every precaution in discharging my new duties , and beat a retreat to the cataloguing department , from which i had been absent for at least an hour .
as luck would have it , peter runcible was the first person i met on my return .
so youve returned to us , have you , mr. milburn ?
he said .
i understand you had to do some stack research .
you must have done enough by now to write a book , not just catalogue one .
im sorry , sir , i replied .
i met dr. armitage in the stacks , and he asked me to do something .
and what might that be ?
look after the necronomicon while mr. bowen is away .
runcibles face darkened with anger .
why should you do that ?
youre a cataloguer , not a rare book specialist .
and youre a member of my staff , moreover .
i must have a word with him about this .
he strode out of the department and i returned to my desk .
i do not know if runcible ever did protest to dr. armitage , but he kept a close account of the time i spent on extradepartmental business , and required me to make it up in additional work .
i found it a worthwhile exchange .
for one thing , i had access to the other books in the vault .
also of interest to scholars of the necronomicon was the summoning of demons , by someone who styled him or herself only as the initiated one .
it was a repellent little volume , duodecimo , the pages badly stained , bound in an overly smooth leather which , for all i knew , may very well have been human skin .
there was a beautiful 16th century compilation of alchemical writings , the liber arcana vitae , printed in france , with engravings so fiendishly detailed and lively , that they rivalled anything by durer .
and there was a fully illustrated copy of sir richard burtons ananga ranga , or , the hindu art of love , which i assumed was kept in the vault for reasons besides its rarity and intrinsic value .
i admit i consulted it a little more often than was strictly necessary .
over the next several months i dealt with eight researchers .
i felt it necessary to exclude only one of them .
this individual , whose name i have forgotten , did not inspire levity indeed , he was rather frightening .
when i told him that i could not allow him access to the work he sought because of a lack of academic credentials , he cursed me before he left the room .
at least , i think the words he uttered were a curse , judging only by their tone , because the language was unknown to me .
several months after my encounter with dr. armitage , one of the junior clerks arrived in my alcove to announce that a gentleman wanted to see me about obtaining access to the necronomicon .
expecting someone elderly and bearded , as my previous clients had been , i was surprised to see a young man , my own age or a few years older .
he was short and slight , elegantly dressed in a long navy blue coat .
with his blond hair and gold rimmed spectacles he looked in complete contrast to the homely , indeed shabby , surroundings of the cataloguing department .
he came toward me , hand extended .
mr. milburn , i believe ?
im herbert west , miskatonic university medical school .
someone in your administration office said youre the person to ask about getting a look at the necronomicon .
i wonder if you could spare a few minutes now .
how do you do , mr. west , i replied , taking his hand and trying to collect my wits .
i felt as though i had been buffeted by a sudden gust of cold wind .
the sensation was bracing , but startling .
his hand was thin and cold , but his grip was firm .
the air around him seemed cold too , as though part of the chilly march day had come inside with him .
im sorry , i said .
its not possible for me to let you see the necronomicon immediately .
there are procedures that must be carried out first .
procedures , he repeated , with a slight emphasis , as though he thought i was a child who had used a word too big for me .
yes , of course , miskatonic is full of procedures .
what do you require ?
three signatures in blood ?
or an oath sworn but not on the bible , surely ?
he smiled then , and i felt that a gift of rarity and value had been bestowed upon me .
that will not be necessary , i said .
endorsements from two or three of your professors , written in ink , will suffice .
the usual procedure is to make an appointment with me for an interview .
would three days be enough time for you to obtain the necessary letters ?
i can see you on thursday at three oclock , in the administration office .
in the face of his lightness and what i can describe only as brilliance , i felt heavy and plodding , devoid of humour , parroting stodgy rules .
but he did not seem particularly annoyed by the small bureaucratic obstacle i had put in his way .
very well , i suppose i can wait another seventy two hours .
three oclock thursday , then .
i could hear his steps , light and rapid , receding along the corridor , and imagined him walking quickly toward the bright day beyond the librarys doors .
i returned to my desk , suddenly tired .
herbert wests visit to the cataloguing department had not gone unnoticed by my colleagues .
peter runcible , fortunately , was absent , but when i went into the staff room for afternoon tea , alma halsey , the sciences cataloguer , looked up from the newspaper she had been reading .
alma and i were both graduates of the school of librarianship at columbia university , but she had left a year before i arrived there .
good thing for you old runcible wasnt there when west came in , she said now .
he would have called you on the carpet for neglect of duties , or at least hung around coughing suggestively .
but what on earth would a medical student want with the necronomicon ?
is he a medical student ?
come to think of it , he did mention the medical school .
do you know him ?
herbert west is notorious at the med .
school .
im surprised you havent heard of him .
papa told me he was nearly kicked out last year , for some very strange shenanigans involving dissecting room cadavers .
youd better watch your step .
hes probably trying on a stunt of some kind .
i expressed surprise at her suggestion that west had been mixed up in mischief involving cadavers .
i could not reconcile such repulsive doings with the elegant young man i had met that afternoon .
on the other hand , almas information could not be discounted either , since her father was the dean of medicine .
ha !
medical students have been known to do all sorts of disgusting things .
theyre inured to gore and grossness .
thats one of the objectives of medical training , you know .
but herbert west has even more experience with corpses than the others .
what do you mean ?
he used to be an undertaker , or at least an undertakers assistant , said alma .
his father owns several funeral homes and young herbert worked in one of them a few summers .
got his hands dirty , you might say .
i did not know what to make of this .
west and i had exchanged perhaps a dozen sentences , and yet i realized that i had formed a very definite impression about him , an impression that may have been wrong .
well , i said , ill be interviewing him on thursday .
all he needs to do is satisfy me that his hands are clean , his motives are pure and he isnt carrying a razor , or a scalpel , for that matter .
i probably will let him have a look at the necronomicon .
after all , it isnt a cadaver .
on the day appointed i was in the administration office a few minutes early .
west arrived while i was reviewing my list of questions for the third time .
as we took our places at the table i had an opportunity to study his appearance more closely .
his was a thin face , but saved from narrowness by a certain breadth across the cheekbones .
his nose was straight and rather long , and faint lines on either side of his mouth suggested frequent smiles .
but his most remarkable features were his eyes .
they were of a curious clear grey with darker flecks , like splintered crystals .
combined with long lashes and finely drawn eyebrows , they gave his face a startling , disturbing beauty , impossible to forget .
after the usual preliminaries , i began the formal questions .
they were quite simple academic credentials and affiliations , and the specifics of the research that made it necessary to consult the necronomicon .
he was in his final year of studies at miskatonic university medical school , west explained .
next year he would start his internship at st. marys hospital , but right now he was doing research for a paper he was writing , a wide ranging inquiry into the history of certain medical practices .
and thats what led me here , he finished .
and , i hope , to the necronomicon .
i need a little more detail as to the information you are looking for , i said .
why the necronomicon , exactly ?
that , said west , getting up from his chair and pacing around the room , is a tortuous tale , and not one you really need to know .
he stopped and gave me a hard look with those ice grey eyes .
let me say only that i am following hints gleaned from other works .
all those roads led me to the necronomicon .
it seems that alhazred wrote much on the transition from life to death .
the actual process , i mean .
you can understand that this is a subject of interest to physicians .
so i was delighted to discover that there is a copy right here at miskatonic .
his letters of endorsement , from two professors of medicine , and one , surprisingly , of philosophy , were entirely in order .
but what about the scandal alma halsey had mentioned ?
neither of the letters from the medical school so much as hinted at that .
yet surely that was exactly the sort of thing this screening process was meant to reveal .
mr. west , i said , i have been given some information , informally , i admit , to the effect that you were involved in a rather unsavoury business at the medical school something to do with cadavers , i believe ?
he waved a hand dismissively and sat down again .
oh that !
it was a typical medical student stunt that i got mixed up with in my first year .
you know the sort of thing a bunch of students kidnaps a corpse from the dissecting lab and takes it on a tour of the town .
unfortunately , after the festivities were over we were in no state to smuggle the thing back into the lab , so it ended up in my rooms .
the authorities were not amused , of course .
they subjected me to more rigorous procedures than this one , i can tell you .
he smiled again , but something in his eyes told me he was lying , and , moreover , that he meant for me to know it .
look , the way i understand it , youll be in the room with me while i consult the book .
i have no concealed weapons .
what could possibly happen ?
he was obviously impatient for my verdict , but i was instinctively certain that the librarys managers , even dr. armitage , whose attitude toward the necronomicon seemed surprisingly casual , would deny this request .
there were sufficient grounds for me to give lack of academic sincerity , or something of the sort as a reason for refusal .
in some obscure way i felt that showing this man the necronomicon , being present as he turned its leaves and scanned its ancient type with his cold gaze , would create a strange complicity .
i felt that i was being presented with a challenge whose nature i could not understand .
i made a final note , put down my pen and stood up .
well , mr. west , i heard myself say , i will now bring you the necronomicon .
after all , even if you intend to steal it , im quite certain you will not be able to get past our miss hardy in the outer office .
i had a vision of herbert west , the necronomicon tucked under one arm like a football , the other arm extended , sprinting through the administration office , coattails flying , with miss hardy preparing to tackle him , and started to laugh .
west must have been surprised at my unexpected capitulation , but he began to laugh too , and the two of us guffawed together as though we shared some enormously funny secret .
i went to the vault and lifted the necronomicon from its drawer .
it was heavier than i remembered , and i nearly let it slip .
as i adjusted my grip on the book , i became aware of a faint scent which i had not noticed on previous occasions , like that of earth , and of ancient incense .
but by the time i left the vault with the tome cradled in my arms , it was gone .
my usual procedure was to place the book on the table , with instructions for the researcher to take care when turning the pages , to make no marks on them , to refrain from folding or creasing the corners .
but this time , i found myself handing the book to west directly .
its all yours , i said , as i let its weight pass from my hands to his .
within the confines of this room , anyway .
he stood with the book in his arms , regarding me with his cool , steady gaze .
i thank you , charles milburn , he said .
he turned away from me and laid it on the table .
he stood looking at it for a moment , removed his spectacles and polished them , took a notebook and pen from his pockets and sat down .
he opened the notebook and looked at something written in it .
only then did he turn to the necronomicon .
west leafed through the book , obviously seeking a specific passage .
having apparently found it , he read intently for a while .
his lips moved as he read , and once he muttered something .
suddenly he motioned me over .
look here , milburn , my latin leaves much to be desired .
youre a classicist , i understand .
come and translate something for me , will you ?
what does this say ?
i went over and looked at the passage he indicated , and read it while he watched .
i still do not understand what happened then .
the literal meaning of the words i read was clear enough .
i wrote down a translation quite easily .
but immediately afterward , i forgot it completely .
it was like the sensation of speaking while in the throes of a head cold one knows what words one is saying , but can not hear them .
it was as though the part of my brain that read was disconnected from the part that comprehended .
later , trying to remember what i had read and written , the best i could come up with was a few disconnected phrases , portentous and scriptural .
i had forgotten the words , but i retained an impression that what i had read went beyond life and death to the ultimate foundations of existence .
when i had finished translating the section he wanted , i waited until west found another and repeated the process , with the same strange result .
an hour went by , then another .
by now it was nearly six oclock , and i was not surprised when miss hardy tapped on the door and opened it .
im sorry , gentlemen , she said , but i must ask you to leave soon .
i will be locking up the office , and you can not remain here .
certainly , miss hardy , i said .
if you need more time , mr. west , we can meet again tomorrow , or some other day .
he looked up , seeming rather dazed , as though he too had forgotten where he was .
then he dropped his pen and sprang to his feet .
actually , im finished now .
your timing is impeccable , miss hardy .
he turned such a charming smile on the woman that she quite melted , an astonishing sight .
oh mr. west , she said , dont hurry yourself on my account .
there are one or two small things i can do here yet , if you need more time .
no , really , im finished .
this has been most valuable .
i thank you sincerely for the opportunity .
and you too , mr. milburn , he said , turning to me .
quickly , he gathered up his materials and put on his coat , while i locked the necronomicon away once more .
the three of us left the administration office together .
west appeared to have taken a shine to miss hardy , for he went down the corridor with her , speaking animatedly of i dont know what .
i went back to the cataloguing department , which was now dark and deserted .
my nerves jangled with anticlimax , even though nothing much had happened .
a man had looked at an old book and made some notes with my help .
he would go off and write a paper on some obscure topic , citing the fabled necronomicon as a source , as many others had done before him .
or he would not .
it made no difference to me .
and surely , now that he had achieved whatever his objective was , nothing i said or did could make any difference to him .
in the weeks that followed , i saw herbert west several times behind the wheel of a sporty pierce arrow roadster , or with a group of other young men , probably fellow medical students , or talking intently with a man who looked like a professor .
on yet another occasion , i saw him in the town with two men who wore suits but did not look like academics .
once only did i meet him face to face , in a narrow thoroughfare known as howards alley , a popular short cut from town to campus .
west was walking quickly toward me , head down , seemingly thinking hard .
as we passed he glanced up and i prepared to greet him , but my words remained unsaid .
on his face was no look of recognition .
his grey eyes , the colour of a winter sky , stared straight through me , seeing something known to herbert west alone .
chapter 2 in early may of 1911 , i asked alma halsey if she would care to accompany me to a concert of chamber music to be performed by students at the peabody recital hall .
i had given this matter a great deal of thought in the previous weeks .
to most young men , my deliberation might seem amusing , but i was very unsophisticated for my age .
due to family misfortunes i had been cut off from the social milieu in which a young person learns the social graces .
moreover , i have always known that i do not belong among the fortunate few who are blessed with beauty .
the first person to inform me of this fact was my cousin alice , at seven years old a golden haired princess who was , now that i come to think of it , the only other person i have ever known with eyes the same colour as herbert wests .
in all innocence , she had once compared me to the dormouse in alice in wonderland , kindly adding , but youre a very sweet little mouse , charlie .
i was only four at the time , but i knew that mice , however sweet , were a different species .
this was before i fell out of a tree a few years later and broke my leg in three places .
it had not healed properly , leaving me with a discernable limp .
added a little later was a pair of thick glasses to combat my short sightedness .
by the time i was in my early twenties i had learned how to avoid situations in which i should be imposing myself on those who did not care for my company or appearance .
so finely could i judge my possible effect on someone that by simple avoidance i managed to elude rejection altogether .
this of necessity had limited my social contacts even further , especially with young women .
but alma was different .
she had an easy friendliness that dissolved my protective veneer .
i had begun to think that there was a genuine warmth between us , and was certain that even if she declined my invitation she would do so with kindness .
of course , i also considered whether this would result in a lingering awkwardness which might impair our collegial relationship , but decided that it was worth the risk .
i was surprised when she accepted with alacrity .
that would be very pleasant , charles .
i had been intending to go anyway , alone , since none of my friends cares much for chamber music .
but its much better to have company at a concert .
we agreed to meet in the main quadrangle of the campus , not far from peabody hall .
i offered to escort alma from her lodgings , but she refused , saying , it makes no sense for you to go all that way , then back to campus again .
its quite in the opposite direction from where you live .
much more efficient to meet in the square .
i agreed , but privately resolved to see her home afterwards .
spring comes late and hard to the miskatonic valley , but by may , even arkham had begun to show signs of approaching summer .
the evening of the concert was mild and still , flushed with the golden light of sunset .
i felt a lightening of the spirit as i walked along the tree shaded avenues of the college district .
the past few weeks had not been altogether pleasant .
the odd emotional upheavals i had experienced as the result of my two encounters with herbert west , along with a certain unease in my place of work and the dithering i had gone through before asking alma to go out with me had been something of a strain .
no one had reprimanded or even questioned my permitting west to consult the necronomicon .
dr. armitage had said something about the young mans reputation , but did not appear otherwise concerned .
peter runcible had said only that he expected me to make up the three hours i had been away from my duties , which i was happy to do .
my report , finally completed after three drafts , was filed along with all the others under book vault researchers interviews , and the matter seemed forgotten .
i kept my ears open for any news of strange doings at the medical school , cautiously sounding out alma , but without results .
except for my distant sightings of west , and that enigmatic and disconcerting meeting in howards alley , it was as though he had never existed .
when i met alma in the square , i was pleasantly surprised to see that she was wearing a pretty summer dress , quite unlike her usual practical yet unconventional attire .
i was glad i had worn my best suit , rather than one of the second bests she was familiar with from the office .
good evening , alma , i said .
you are looking very pretty .
thank you , charles .
its such a lovely evening i decided to do it the honour of gilding the lily .
she twirled around so that her skirts swung around her ankles .
laughing , she took my arm and we went into the hall .
the place was sparsely populated as yet , and we selected a pair of seats near the front .
as we chatted of nothing in particular i could hear the room filling up behind us .
according to the program , the opening piece would be beethovens sonata for violin and piano no .
5 in f major , known as the spring sonata , followed by six of paganinis twenty four caprices .
i remarked to alma that the latter were fiendishly difficult to play .
yes , she said , tapping her program .
this fellow , alvaro castelo branco , apparently is something of a prodigy .
he comes from kingsport , from the portuguese people there .
but look , how unusual selections from j.s .
bachs goldberg variations arranged for string trio .
why unusual ?
i asked .
i seem to recall that its a fairly well known piece .
yes , but its usually performed on the piano , she explained .
this version is something of a novelty .
the arrangement is by a russian violinist .
it should be an interesting concert .
her eyes sparkled .
quite suddenly , i felt a corresponding lightness , as though the air itself had become effervescent .
just as the beethoven began , my glance was drawn to the far side of the hall by a late arrival .
it was herbert west .
he was alone , and took a seat at the far end of a row , near the wall .
the paganini caprices were indeed spectacular .
alma was right about young castelo branco , the violinist .
now , of course , he is internationally known , his humble kingsport origins almost forgotten .
unschooled though i was , i could discern his brilliance , contrasted with the more pedestrian talents of his fellow performers .
i watched as well as listened with pleasure , becoming truly conscious for the first time of the physical act of playing the violin .
castelo branco was exerting the same intense yet controlled effort as someone engaged in a fencing match , except that he stood in one place .
his breathing was rapid , and i could see a sheen of sweat on his brow .
it was fascinating , as though the music he played had become incarnate , no longer merely notes in the aether , but a living body which took up space and had weight .
when he had done i joined the rest of the audience in rapturous applause .
but it is the bach i will remember forever .
the first grave , deliberate notes of the aria struck me deeply , with their promise of something wonderful to come .
i was content to wait for it without impatience , because of the inherent completeness of the simple melody .
for some reason i looked just then toward herbert west .
he was leaning forward , his fingers on his brow so that his eyes were covered , in an attitude of profound concentration .
a few moments later , he leaned back in his seat , eyes closed , as though giving himself up to the music .
the aria ended and the first variation began with its quicker tempo , i felt a deep gladness run through me , as though i was at the start of some glorious enterprise .
impulsively , i reached for almas hand and pressed it hard .
she looked at me , startled , then smiled and returned the pressure .
the intermission came all too soon .
while the music lasted i had felt myself swung in a magical net of stars .
the magic was compounded of the music , the nearness of alma and a kind of thrilling of the nerves that seemed to come from another source altogether .
as we strolled around the lobby i had little to say , but alma commented on the performance with typical succinctness the beethoven was good , the paganini amazing , the bach i dont know .
maybe if the cellist and violist had been up to castelo brancos calibre .
i loved the goldbergs , i said .
it was passion contained within a structure , an adventure of the spirit .
alma was amused by my enthusiasm .
ill bet bach would be surprised to hear that !
what a romantic you are , charles , she said , laughing , and launched into something about counterpoint .
i was happy enough to listen to her while i sipped sherry and watched people engage in their social minuets around us .
several of them were acquaintances of almas .
she dutifully introduced me , adding some brief but trenchant details after the persons in question had moved on .
then herbert west was before me , shaking my hand vigorously .
milburn !
i hoped it was you .
good evening , miss halsey .
i thought i detected a distinct lack of enthusiasm in almas response .
hello mr. west .
how are you ?
i would have thought you would be too taken up with examinations to bother with music .
i have had a bellyful of examinations , all right , west replied , laughing .
but im happy to say theyre over .
this is something of a celebration .
he went on to make some remarks about the performance , saying that he was certain that the music of bach was so mathematical that it must have a measurable effect on the brain , could there only be a means of making the correct measurements .
alma responded with a little more warmth than she had shown initially .
i watched them , noting , in my rather bemused state , that they resembled one another .
both were lightly built , with blond hair and light coloured eyes .
but beyond this , there was an element of contrast .
alma radiated warmth , west coolness .
i was trying to figure out how this could be when i realized that he had asked me something .
i roused myself from my reverie with an effort .
would you and miss halsey care to join me ?
excuse me , i said .
i wasnt listening , im afraid .
hes still afloat on the goldberg variations , laughed alma .
mr. west has asked us to accompany him to supper .
im afraid i must decline , but perhaps you are available ?
well , milburn ?
id like to prolong this pleasant evening , so how about some post concert festivities ?
that sounds delightful , i said , without thinking .
but alma , you must allow me to take you home first .
i hope that will be all right with you , i said to west .
i felt that i had committed some sort of faux pas with respect to one or both of them , and was not certain what i should do to remedy it .
of course , he replied .
i am entirely at your disposal .
well form an honour guard for miss halsey .
he bowed rather mockingly toward alma , who responded in a similar vein .
nonsense !
its only a few blocks .
i have no need for knights errant to safeguard me home .
i insisted , however , so following the rest of the concert , which featured a mozart piano trio of which i have no memory at all , although i normally enjoy his music , west and i accompanied alma to the door of her house .
along the way , it occurred to me that this was an odd way to conclude an evening with a young lady .
west did not seem in the least disconcerted at having created a threes a crowd situation .
he participated eagerly in the conversation , discoursing on a number of topics , from violin making in 18th century italy to the latest political scandals in boston .
as on the other occasions i had met him he seemed to bring with him his own charged atmosphere .
again , i felt it affecting me , adding a spring to my step and a kind of devil may care attitude which was entirely foreign to me .
alma must have sensed something of this , for she looked at me sharply as we shook hands on her doorstep .
good night , charles .
thank you for the concert .
enjoy yourself , but dont forget that excellent precept , nothing in excess .
good night , mr. west .
quantum sufficit , i replied , smartly .
vale .
ah the independent miss halsey , said west , as we turned our steps toward arkhams commercial centre on river street .
theres a good deal of her father , the venerable allan , in her , whether she admits it or not .
what do you mean ?
i asked , a little nettled that he should be making what seemed to be a less than complimentary remark about a young woman who had obviously been my chosen companion for the evening .
merely that both of them are rather given to laying down the law to everyone around them .
i suppose it comes with the territory for him , but i remembered alma saying that west had been nearly expelled from the medical school , and assumed that this incident , necessarily involving the dean , would have coloured his attitude toward the halsey family .
but surely that was rather unjust ?
i was spared the need to reply , however , for he dropped the subject .
well , where shall we dine ?
he asked .
on my expressing no preference , he suggested da vincis grill , a place i had heard of but never patronized .
it was not a restaurant frequented by the academic set , but rather a wood panelled , leather and brass establishment of the sort beloved by men of business .
i felt as we entered that we had somehow been transported to the financial district of new york city .
west , it appeared , was known here .
a brief word to the head waiter secured for us a table in a remote corner , bathed in its own pool of yellow light .
do you come here often ?
i asked , curious .
you seem to be what they call a regular .
my father , he replied , looking a little embarrassed , is the regular .
i am merely a hanger on , not even a crony , but the food is good , the service discreet , and its not miskatonic .
there are times when its refreshing to get away from the atmosphere of academia .
your father is in business , i believe ?
i said , carefully avoiding any mention of funeral parlours .
god yes , hes in business .
bakeries , breweries , real estate you name it , hiram west owns a piece of it .
and his mortuaries , of course .
a dozen of those hes the king of the death business in massachusetts .
one time i suggested that he adopt as a slogan go west with wests , but he was not amused .
he looked at me seriously , but i caught a glimpse of mischief lurking in his eyes , and let loose the laughter his words had provoked .
after this we were easier with one another .
in answer to my tentative questions he told me that he was the youngest of three brothers , of whom the other two were businessmen like their father .
like me , he had grown up in boston , not so very far from my home in beacon hill , except that i had been taught that the mansions of back bay were haunts of the nouveau riche , to be regarded with disdain .
on my asking about his mother , he replied , i have been motherless since the age of eight .
there was a finality about this statement that discouraged further questions on the subject .
whatever west thought of his father and i detected a mixture of emotions , among them shame , exasperation and a grudging respect , he had certainly not rejected the benefits of the elder wests positive cash flow .
now , as on the two previous occasions i had met him , he was immaculately dressed .
my best suit didnt begin to come close .
he looked less like a student than a successful young professional man .
yet underneath and above and around all this was what really interested me about him a kind of barely suppressed hidden laughter , as though he was saying i know a great secret , and if you are the kind of fellow i think you are i might let you in on it .
he dealt briskly with the waiter after making a few unobtrusive suggestions that prevented me from dithering over the menu , which was quite lengthy .
well , milburn , he said , once we were settled with drinks , our orders placed .
quid pro quo , now what of your domestic origins ?
my parents are both dead , i said , realizing too late how stark that sounded , but wishing to avoid the particulars of their deaths , especially my fathers .
i grew up in boston .
my father was a banker .
it was a fairly ordinary life , really , but now im alone .
i have a bachelors degree in classics and my librarians degree , of course .
since last fall i have been a cataloguer at miskatonic university library .
oh , so you do something besides guard the necronomicon ?
he was teasing me , but i detected something else in his voice .
come to think of it , ive never thought much about what you librarians do all day , besides fuss with books and tell people where things are .
whats a cataloguer ?
well , you know the card catalogue all those cabinets full of drawers in the main hall of the library my colleagues and i have made all that .
no , not the cabinets , of course , but the contents .
the descriptions and index terms on the cards .
its an index to all the books in the library .
you can find any book described there , and from the description and the call number you can tell whether it might be of use to you , and where to find it .
you can look under authors , or subjects or titles , whatever suits you .
all the books , however different from one another , fit into this structure , so once you know how it works , you can follow a thread from your starting point to the thing you need .
its all quite logical .
im a great believer in logic .
but how do you cataloguers make sure youre all describing and classifying the same way ?
surely you dont have one system for your greeks and romans , and alma halsey quite another for the sciences ?
there are rules for description , quite complex ones .
a new version was published just three years ago .
and we use a classification system developed here at miskatonic in the 1880s .
but surely you must have used the card catalogue at some point ?
how could you get three fourths of the way through medical school without doing that ?
he looked a little uncomfortable .
we medical fellows have our methods and short cuts .
its considered weak , actually , to use the library .
occasionally one of us will slip in when desperate , if we can be sure of not meeting any of the others .
and we borrow books from our professors , of course .
so you didnt get desperate until you needed the necronomicon ?
i asked .
well , not desperate , exactly .
only certain that it would have the answers i needed .
and it did , too .
but he would say no more about that .
so there are rules ?
all you have to do is look them up and you can catalogue anything ?
or , for that matter , anyone could ?
i was a little disconcerted .
i felt as though i was being interviewed , for what i could not imagine .
its not that simple .
the rules have to be applied in context .
theres a lot of room for interpretation .
cataloguing is more art than science .
the best cataloguers try to think like the researchers who use the catalogue , to see it the way they do .
not everyone can do that .
but you can ?
yes , i think so .
thats one of the things that makes my work interesting .
by this time our meals had come and we were making short work of them .
west had ordered a couple of bottles of wine as well , and i was finding myself more voluble than is my habit as a result .
we cataloguers are not moles , as some of my colleagues think , i said .
i think of us as weavers .
spiders , perhaps .
to my surprise , west immediately saw what i was getting at .
spiders ?
of course , the catalogue is a kind of web , isnt it ?
at least , thats what your description made me think of .
i suppose you have to be fairly versatile , dont you to understand what all those books are about ?
and then there are different languages i have more respect for you librarians now , i can tell you , he said , raising his glass .
to cataloguers .
yes !
i said , my enthusiasm for my obscure field breaking out in response to his understanding .
but enough about me .
what led you to the study of medicine ?
death , said herbert west .
my surprise must have shown on my face , but after a moment he continued .
when i was eight , my mother died , and my twin brother .
they got sick and never got better , despite all the doctors and treatments my father called in .
i watched it all , as a child will , even though they tried to stop me .
it seemed to go on forever , but i suppose it was only a couple of weeks .
every time another doctor left , i would go to my mother and ask her if she would get better .
until she couldnt speak any more .
and my brother well , it was like watching myself die .
their deaths left me virtually alone , since my two remaining brothers were five and eight years older than i. i got angry instead of sad , because i was certain there was something that could have been done to save them .
everyone was just too stupid to see it .
so i read everything i could find about death , which wasnt much , in the paters library .
yes , he actually has one , bought lock , stock and barrel if you can say that about a library in the true hiram west manner .
once i was in school i found more scientific stuff , but also philosophy .
my teachers suggested i study medicine , so here i am .
while he was speaking i found myself touched with pity by the vision he had conjured up the little boy , frightened at what was happening to his mother and brother .
twin brother , no less .
but it was too glib .
and there was no passion in his eyes to match the words .
still , i could not very well express doubts about a story like this .
instead i asked , and what area of medicine will you specialize in , or do you know ?
i think so , he replied .
its something im developing myself , and altogether unprecedented .
would you like me to tell you ?
its quite a story .
here it is , i thought .
aloud i said , tell me .
over coffee and brandy he told me a great deal .
some of it , perhaps most , was the truth , or nearly .
you know , of course , that my father owns several funeral parlours .
he no longer works as an undertaker as i mentioned earlier , he has expanded his business interests and now is concerned primarily with managing all his enterprises .
but at one time he was a funeral director .
he apprenticed under my grandfather and great uncle , who started the business .
he laughed .
father would rather soil his hands metaphorically and achieve greater profits .
but i have always been aware that some of our livelihood came from dealing with the dead .
anyway , a few years ago when i was considering medicine as a profession , i did my own apprenticeship .
i thought exposure to corpses would be practical , if only as preparation for the dissecting room .
at the same time i was taking courses in biology and philosophy at the university .
have you ever read haeckel ?
on my expressing only a passing familiarity with the name , he explained .
ernst heinrich haeckel is a german who has worked in both these fields .
he developed a theory of the mechanism of life , based on the work of darwin .
the key word here is mechanism .
all living things can be reduced to pure matter .
you may have heard that most of the human body consists of water .
water and carbon , and a few other elements .
put them all together , precisely , and you have that violinist who entertained us so superbly tonight .
or bach himself , for that matter .
change the chemistry , even slightly , and you have an idiot , or a lump of dead flesh .
the thing that makes the difference between those two states , thats what i am looking for .
death , you mean ?
the moment the soul leaves the body , or ?
west waved a hand dismissively .
im not concerned with the soul .
ive never seen one or heard of anyone who has not anyone credible , anyway .
and ive seen several people die oh yes , they dont spare our delicate feelings at the med .
school !
and many others who were already dead , of course .
not a soul among them .
its all chemistry and electricity , from respiration to digestion and the activity of the brain .
i leave the soul to dreamers and clerics .
the thing that really interested me was the way in which the physical mechanism changes to produce the ultimate change we call death .
i felt that if i could understand that i could come up with some way to delay , or even reverse it .
so youre a student of thanatos , i said .
on his inquiring look i explained .
a personification of death in ancient greece .
if you say so , west said .
anyway , one summer there was a minor plague here in arkham , one of those sudden things that comes and goes within a few weeks .
we undertakers were uncommonly busy , as you may imagine .
i was probably working too hard , and such work too !
like the black death of the 14th century .
well , one night i had a dream theyre all brain chemistry , dont deceive yourself !
its your own mind sending you messages , but sometimes theyre useful .
i dreamt i could see the chemical composition of a dead body the very essence , i mean , as though it had been exploded into fundamental particles .
i could see that there was an imbalance , and i knew that i could re start the engine of life by the application of an appropriate chemical stimulus .
when i began at the medical school , i tried discussing my idea with some of my professors .
they agreed in theory , but did not seem in the least interested in any practical experimentation .
so i went ahead anyway , on my own .
you know how embalming works , dont you ?
i shook my head , surprised by the question .
no ?
well , it was developed by physicians .
william harvey used the injection technique in his study of blood circulation .
a scottish anatomist called william hunter was the first to apply it to preservation of corpses .
it became a profession in its own right during the civil war , when people wanted their sons bodies shipped home for burial .
now i have found a medical use for the technique once more .
you see , in embalming , the corpses blood is drained and replaced with a preservative fluid .
there is a special apparatus for injecting the chemical and aspirating the body fluids .
it occurred to me that with a few modifications this could be a means to inject a revivifying fluid into a body without circulation , a body whose heart had stopped .
the chief problem , of course , was what would such a fluid consist of , and how could it be made ?
this became my obsession .
first i had to develop a substance enough like blood to substitute for it , but which had also the necessary galvanizing effect .
it wasnt easy .
a hundred times i felt like giving up .
many rabbits , guinea pigs , cats , dogs and monkeys met their ends at my hands .
several times i obtained signs of life , but since each species requires a unique formulation , there was no point in wasting my time on formulae that could be used on animals only .
i approached the college authorities again , to give me authorization to use human subjects .
you know , milburn , these professor doctors , they make all kinds of sanctimonious noises about working for the good of mankind , doing no harm and all sorts of mumbo jumbo , but when someone comes along ready to make them a gift of something truly revolutionary , they retreat into a pathetic puritanism .
not only did they refuse me , they threatened to take away my laboratory privileges if i persisted .
well , you can guess what happened next .
in desperation , i availed myself of a human subject from the only source readily open to me one of my fathers mortuaries .
i had to transport the body to a lab at the medical school , where i had the necessary equipment and chemicals .
it had to be done discreetly , of course , which meant i had to do it in the middle of the night .
even then , there was a night watchman who had to be negotiated with .
unfortunately , the experiment failed , probably because the corpse was too old by then , the delicate mechanisms of life stalled beyond repair .
and worst of all , i was discovered by some busybody who reported me to the college authorities .
the learned and benevolent dr. halsey himself threatened me with expulsion should i so much as hoist a guinea pig in the laboratory again .
and my father , though no saint , was not pleased at my unorthodox proceedings with one of his clients .
but he did help to work things out with halsey in the end .
as west spoke , i watched his hands .
they were strong hands , beautifully shaped , the nails cut short and immaculately clean .
i watched them pick up and lay down items of cutlery , raise his glass to his lips , make an eloquent gesture to emphasize a point .
i had difficulty imagining that these hands had done the things that he described , had touched many corpses , had intimately probed their cold flesh and opened their arteries .
these hands had been stained , perhaps , with blood grown thick and viscous with death .
they had handled shining knives and hollow needles , poisons and secret substances .
he must have looked with his grey eyes into blank , glazed ones in which death had extinguished the spark , and thought , it need not be forever , as he calculated the forces required to accomplish the unthinkable .
i remembered the few dead people i had seen my grandmother , when i was nine , and my mother .
my father too , but he was alone in the category of the self murdered .
to me they had seemed like spent flowers , drawn in upon themselves , sealed shut from life , stilled forever .
i could not imagine wanting to animate them .
surely the very desire to open these closed beings , to force life back into them , was a blasphemy .
i realized i was sliding into bemusement , and spoke to bring myself back .
so it wasnt dissecting room cadavers after all , i said .
no , of course not .
such things would be of no use to my work .
theyre pretty much pickled by the time we students get our hands on them .
mind you , that little adventure i described to you some weeks ago did happen , but it was routine medical student stuff tradition , really .
even halsey probably did something like that , centuries ago .
so youre telling me that you are able to bring the dead back to life .
yes , he answered simply .
under certain conditions i believe i can do just that .
and what might those conditions be ?
i asked .
so reasonable had he sounded until now that i hesitated to express disbelief without further details .
thats exactly what im trying to find out .
i know that theres a limit of time after death beyond which my method will not work .
but i dont know as yet whether theres a gradation of effectiveness within the limit .
in other words , i suspect that a corpse can be restored to full and effective life within only a short time after death .
beyond that time , a kind of life is possible , but the individual may no longer be recognizable as the person they were before death , due to loss of cognitive functions .
such a being may still serve a purpose , however .
what sort of purpose ?
well , as an experimental subject , for example .
what you would have is a body with physiological functions , but no mind .
a perfect thing on which to perform certain experimental procedures , dont you think ?
consider how that would prolong the useful life of the citizen .
i could not tell whether he was joking .
i thought not .
i wondered if the horror i felt showed in my face .
have you actually done that ?
carried out experiments on one of these mindless things ?
no , for the simple reason that i have not yet achieved a successful revivification .
i must do some more fundamental work first , but thats difficult , now that im under scrutiny by the medical school .
but west , im not sure i understand .
youre saying that you might be able to restore a dead person to full life , is that right ?
exactly .
im certain of it .
but within certain parameters only .
all right , i said .
i was trying hard to get my mind around the idea .
all right , but a person who is dead usually dies of something .
something harmful , i mean , that has done damage to the body .
thats why theyre dead .
so even if you manage to restore life , wouldnt you just have someone whos on the point of death again ?
ah , but it would give you a chance to heal them , wouldnt it ?
how often do you hear it said that someone might have lived if only help had arrived sooner ?
if we had been able to try this or that technique ?
once the body is functioning again , measures could be taken to counteract the injury or disease , just as though death had not intervened .
obviously , it would make no sense to revivify bodies that were seriously damaged or deteriorated .
and even if a person is revivified for only a short time it could make a great difference , in certain situations .
like what ?
well , lets consider a few .
unfinished business , for example .
people who die before they can make a will , confess to a crime or make some other revelation , such as the identity of a murderer .
wouldnt that be useful ?
i suppose so , but it conjures up some rather macabre scenarios .
a dead person being dragged back over the threshold and interrogated by greedy relatives or the police .
he seemed a little annoyed .
perhaps , but its unlikely that the greedy relatives or police would be capable of or equipped to carry out the procedure .
for me , all those worthy reasons are beside the point , actually .
the real reason i have devoted myself to this problem is to introduce the element of choice .
when i perfect my discovery there will be a choice even to return from death , however briefly .
but it wont be the dead persons choice , but someone elses .
yours , i suppose .
a corpse would have no idea that it might be brought back to life .
what if it didnt want to be ?
corpses dont have a choice .
they simply dont care .
but once alive again , he would have the choice to end his life once more .
that choice is always available , to all of us .
a lot you know about that , i thought , remembering again the scene in my fathers study the day after the collapse of the western massachusetts bank .
but i didnt want to talk about that with herbert west .
so who would such a person be ?
i asked .
what do you mean ?
well , this thing you would have after you administer your formula who would it be ?
if he died as john smith of arkham , is that who he would be when he comes back to life ?
someone with all the attributes of the living john smith oh , i dont know his speech habits , food preferences , sense of humour .
you know , things that arent necessarily dependent on intelligence , but which certainly are part of someones personality .
personality ...
i dont know , milburn .
i havent given that much thought .
i suppose there might be some changes .
thats something else that would be revealed only by experimentation .
i could not let go of the matter so easily .
this john smith , would he still love his wife ?
his children ?
would he keep his friendships ?
because those things are as important as cognitive functions , surely ?
he stared at me for a second or two , as though he had discovered a new life form sitting in the chair across from him .
are they as important ?
he asked .
im not certain about that .
and i have no idea how one would test such notions scientifically .
after another short silence , he appeared to have dismissed the subject .
there could be another reason for this research .
he gave me a mischievous look .
with your concern about the soul , i would have expected you to have thought of it already .
wouldnt you like to have a chance to speak with someone who had actually crossed the threshold , as you put it ?
surely he would have a tale worth listening to .
why , even a materialist like myself might be interested , if only as a means of exploring the effect of oxygen deprivation on the brain .
is that how the necronomicon comes into it ?
ah , the necronomicon .
as a matter of fact it does , very much so .
but look , i think theyre getting ready to close here .
how about if we go back to my rooms , and i can tell you the rest ?
west insisted on settling the bill .
after all , i invited you and have been bending your ear for hours .
the least i can do is supply the grub .
we walked rather slowly back to the college district , west showing consideration for both my limp and unaccustomed state of tipsiness .
he , on the other hand , did not seem in the least affected by the lateness of the hour or the amount of wine he had drunk .
wests rooms occupied the entire ground floor of a georgian house on college street , near miskatonic and st. marys hospital .
the apartment was spacious and comfortably furnished with what he described as castoffs from the paternal attics .
he made us some coffee and resumed his narrative .
curiously , i found the beginning of the thread that led me to the necronomicon in my fathers library , west began .
truly !
remember , i told you that he had bought the collection intact .
well , whoever put it together had wide ranging interests , as well as good taste in bindings , which was what mattered to father .
but i found it quite valuable .
in a way , my entire career began with those books .
you see , among them were some writings on alchemy .
fortunately , i made the leap to chemistry before i absorbed too much of the mystical mumbo jumbo .
in college i couldnt choose between chemistry and biology , so looked for something in common between the two , which led me to my present interests .
i remembered what he had told me in the restaurant , that it had been the deaths of his mother and brother that had led him to study medicine .
i nearly asked him about this apparent contradiction , but he was clearly in full flight , pacing back and forth with a glass of whiskey in his hand .
anyway , to get back to fathers library , it was in one of those books that i found an oblique reference to the principle of life in death as articulated by alhazred .
well , that phrase life in death , struck me as worth following up , but i had no idea who alhazred might be , until i asked one of my professors quarrington , it was .
he wrote one of my endorsements for you back in the spring .
hes a professor emeritus of philosophy .
an interesting fellow knows something about everything .
anyway , he told me about abdul alhazred , of sanaa in yemen , who wrote a book called al azif in the 8th century .
some time later the al azif was translated into greek , under the title necronomicon , which it retained in other translations , into latin and even english .
that would be the uniform title for it , then , with al azif as a cross reference .
and the book of dead names , too , of course .
i said this before i had realized it .
uniform title ?
repeated west .
whats that ?
oh , its something we use in cataloguing , to bring together works that have been issued under different titles .
im sorry i spoke without thinking .
please go on .
well , anyway , al azif is the necronomicon , or rather , the necronomicon is a translation of a translation of al azif .
imagine my delight when i found we had a copy , right here in arkham !
in latin , fortunately , not arabic .
but as you know , my latin is only just functional , so i was extremely lucky that you were there to translate for me .
but i couldnt understand any of it !
i exclaimed .
the words , yes , but not their significance .
i understood them quite well , said west , a strange look in his eyes .
they inspired me , in fact .
after those hours with the necronomicon , i did my best work so far .
it wasnt facts i found there , you understand , but something that turned my thinking about the nature of cells and how they function as living entities .
it made all the difference .
i was in the laboratory every night for weeks , and now i think i have a revivifying fluid that will be effective on a human subject .
what i need now is a subject .
and an assistant .
surely one of your fellow students i began , but west cut me off with his characteristic wave of the hand .
theyre a bunch of sheep , he said with contempt .
they wont get involved in anything even slightly unorthodox , for fear of jeopardizing the all important diploma .
in fact , im fairly certain it was one of these fellow students of mine that tipped off halsey the night i made that one attempt i told you about .
he began pacing again .
im so close !
he exclaimed .
but now its more risky than ever .
i have a laboratory of sorts here , but its barely adequate .
so ill have to break some more rules , i guess .
any amount of them .
and even more , i need a trustworthy assistant .
how about it , milburn ?
me ?
i cried , astonished .
why on earth would you want me ?
im a librarian , not a doctor or a scientist of any sort .
and in case you havent noticed , i limp .
again that wave of the hand .
so what , im not planning on doing any running .
its quite simple , milburn .
youre a romantic , and despite all those rules you live by , you obviously know its necessary to break them sometimes .
look at that necronomicon business .
i was certain you would find some reason to keep me from it .
my reputation had preceded me , i knew .
so i was pleasantly surprised when you let me go ahead .
believe me , anyone at miskatonic who breaks a rule , however small , has my vote .
he smiled .
and now that my professors think ive gone in for reading dusty old tomes they figure im not as dangerous .
so what would this assistant of yours do ?
i asked .
simply be an extra pair of hands , eyes and ears .
one pair of each , i mean .
again that smile .
say youll consider it , at least .
ill consider , but not tonight , i said , starting to get up from the sofa .
im about ready to collapse .
of course , said west , extending his hand and hauling me to my feet .
ive kept you entirely too late .
look , suppose we meet here in three days , at six oclock ?
youre finished work by then ?
good .
well , good night , milburn .
its been a delightful evening .
i walked slowly home under a sky full of stars .
it had been a long evening alma , the music , and now the revelations of herbert west .
i had never known anyone like him .
his brilliance and coldness , combined with a worldly air , produced in me an impression of ineffable glamour .
having been on the sidelines for most of my life , i was immensely flattered that one of the players at the centre of things had noticed me , even wanted my help .
oh , i realized even then that west was probably not all he seemed .
there were disturbing hints of unsavoury connections and a love of deception for its own sake .
but what of it ?
why should i not , for once in my life , avoid the well trodden path of duty and seek adventure in wilder realms ?
did i really believe that herbert west could raise the dead ?
i did not , then , but i believed he was a man who could do extraordinary things , and that by associating with him i might become a little less ordinary myself .
chapter 3 the next day i was heavy eyed and heavy headed .
when i entered the cataloguing department , peter runcible grinned at me knowingly .
well , well , milburn !
overindulged a little last night , did we ?
i didnt think you were that sort .
chuckling , he walked away .
alma halsey looked at me sympathetically , but later , when i was sipping tea in the staff room and starting to feel a little better , she said , evidently classicists are as reluctant as most men to practice what they preach .
it wasnt i that was preaching , it was you , i replied grumpily .
and anyway , as excesses go this was minor .
oh , now hes a man of the world !
forgive me , but i think for you this was a major debauch .
curiosity got the better of her then , for she asked , so where did you go , some saloon on water street ?
this was where arkhams seedier drinking establishments were located .
i tried to give her a withering look , but thats hard to do when your head is still pounding , and anyway , it was always hard to wither alma .
we went to da vincis grill , if you must know .
and had quite a good meal , too .
alma whistled .
da vincis , eh ?
im almost sorry i didnt go with you .
it would have been quite the field trip , seeing the arrivistes of arkham in their own milieu .
oh dont get all hoity toity and intellectual with me , alma , i said .
youre just jealous .
it was quite an interesting evening .
ill bet it was , she answered .
look , charles , theres something id like to talk to you about .
how about if you come to my place for afternoon tea tomorrow ?
west had not sworn me to secrecy , or even asked for my discretion , but it didnt take much imagination to realize that if i wanted to throw in my lot with him , the true nature of his research must be kept absolutely secret .
i resolved to maintain a close watch on my tongue the next afternoon .
alma lived in a curious little apartment at the top of a house on french hill street .
although only a short distance from arkhams best neighbourhoods , the area was showing signs of decline .
many of the houses had been turned into apartment buildings .
paint had faded and peeled , and efforts to conceal small blights such as ash cans and laundry lines were flagging .
it was as though the waterfront slum to the north had thrown out a tentacle and induced a subtle decay .
almas place was furnished in a style which could be described only as eclectic , but the atmosphere was warm and welcoming .
no less so was alma herself , wearing a kind of smock over her skirt and blouse , her hair tied back with a ribbon .
she motioned me to a cushion laden sofa and went to make tea while i admired the way she had accommodated the comforts of life in the small space at her disposal .
her home resembled a ships cabin , afloat on the sea of leaves visible through the windows .
once she had furnished me with a cup of tea fragrant with honey , alma lost no time in pressing me for more details about my dinner with herbert west .
what did he want from you , anyway ?
what makes you so sure he wanted something ?
besides someone to share a meal with , i mean .
hed just finished exams , he said , and wanted to celebrate .
hmm .
from what i know of mr. west he is not usually given to such spontaneous conviviality .
he didnt seem to want anything much , really , just to talk about well , his studies and that sort of thing .
alma looked unconvinced .
i wouldnt be surprised if hes softening you up for something .
what do you have against herbert west , anyway ?
i asked .
it was quite plain to me from the moment we met him at the concert that you dont care for him .
youre quite right there .
i dont like him .
i think hes unscrupulous and devious .
and a real manipulator .
look at the effect hes had on you , for example .
what effect ?
well , i think youre quite impressed .
i do admit he is very attractive .
but make no mistake , hes entirely self centred .
and cold as ice .
i was beginning to think that almas aversion to west was rooted in nothing more than some sort of romantic connection gone wrong .
she quickly dispelled this notion , however .
oh , dont think i dislike him because he rejected my charms , or something silly like that .
hes not my type , for one thing .
ive had very little to do with him , but ive heard quite a lot , from papa and others at the med .
school .
so what is it youve heard ?
i asked .
she looked serious .
thats why i asked you here , actually , charles .
to tell you what i know about herbert west so you have something to counterbalance your romantic notions .
because i still think he sought you out with some purpose in mind .
sought me out ?
but he just happened to be at that concert never mind all that .
just listen .
i listened .
herbert west had gained admission to the miskatonic university medical school some three years previously , alma said , having first obtained a bachelor of science degree in chemistry .
in short order he began to make a nuisance of himself by proposing wild theories about the reversibility of death , and worse , carrying out bizarre and unauthorized experiments on animals in the medical schools laboratories .
it was this latter habit that had caused the college authorities to step in and threaten to restrict his laboratory privileges .
why ?
i interjected .
was he breaking the law stealing peoples pet dogs and cats , for example ?
well , no , alma answered , but there was something undisciplined and unstructured about his carryings on .
they werent part of a program of rational study , which is what first and second year medical students are supposed to be engaged in .
they arent expected to do original research at that stage , for gods sake .
i reflected that for whosever sake west did his experiments , it wasnt gods .
aloud i said , it sounds to me as though they were out of their depth with him .
did it ever occur to anyone that he might be the medical equivalent of a prodigy ?
like that young fellow we heard playing the violin the other night .
oh charles , alma said , shaking her head , its quite obvious that west did a good job of impressing you .
im probably wasting my breath .
but he didnt stop at cats and dogs , however legitimately acquired .
he got a dead human body from somewhere .
probably one of his fathers mortuaries .
this would have been the fall before last october or thereabouts .
hed been told to stop his animal experiments by a certain date , or else .
so i guess he got desperate and decided to try a human being .
she shook her head again .
such a waste of his talents .
papa says hes really very competent at his normal studies .
i refrained from pointing out that this could be another indication that the good professor doctors of the medical school simply didnt know what to do with the cuckoo in their nest .
anyway , alma continued , he got this corpse into the lab somehow , late at night , of course .
hed bribed the night watchman not to report him .
first and second year students arent allowed into the labs at night , you see .
west had also smuggled into the lab some sort of apparatus which he had connected to the corpse .
he was engaged in pumping a fluid into it when he was discovered .
it was bizarre and horrible to see , apparently , said alma .
it looked as though hed had an accident with the equipment .
a tube had burst , or something .
when papa and dr. hobson got there the place looked like a slaughterhouse blood everywhere the patients blood , of course , and all over west too .
there he was , blood all over that pretty face of his , but cool as can be , and laughing !
thats what really bothered them .
i nearly laughed myself , realizing that this description of the scene neither surprised nor shocked me .
in fact , it was exactly what i would have expected of the herbert west i had begun to know .
i wondered what had prompted his laughter .
the experiment had failed , of course , so it must have been ironic amusement at the outrage of those whom he believed to be willfully ignorant .
how did your father happen to know that west was in the laboratory that night ?
i asked .
she looked uneasy .
i think someone tipped him off .
another student , maybe .
she didnt go so far as to suggest that west had been watched , but i remembered what he had said about betrayal .
anyway , the next day papa called west on the carpet and told him he had one chance to redeem himself .
and he was forbidden to use any laboratory at the medical school except under close supervision , for his course work only , for the remainder of the year .
she paused .
that seems pretty lenient to me , considering that he was already under threat of suspension .
i wouldnt be surprised if west senior weighed in with the senior college administration to smooth things over for his boy .
yes , what about hiram west ?
i asked .
his son seemed rather ambivalent about him .
really ?
a point in his favour , there .
hirams a typical businessman , in most ways .
into every kind of enterprise , and filthy rich .
but none too scrupulous , if what ive heard is true .
the thing is , hes the sort of person that could be persuaded to be a major benefactor of miskatonic .
so its not really in the interests of the college to discipline his son too harshly .
and in your case its another reason to be careful .
i hardly think ill ever pose any threat to hiram west , i said .
really , alma , youre taking all this much too seriously .
i admit i find west a rather interesting type , but our paths arent likely to cross very often , after all .
i hope not , for your sake .
i have a bad feeling about that young man .
and this young man ?
i asked , feeling suddenly playful .
what sort of feeling do you have about him ?
she regarded me with her head tilted to one side , a little smile on her lips .
oh , i think hes a very nice young man .
i quite enjoy his company .
seriously , charles , i do .
im glad you came to miskatonic .
we went on then to talk about other things , including almas ideas about the new woman .
she felt very strongly that young women should be encouraged to leave their parents homes and support themselves for a while before they married .
otherwise the poor things are perfectly helpless , aside from housekeeping and looking after children .
and so dull , too .
you are surely an example of the other kind of woman , then , alma .
theres nothing dull about you .
i hope not , she said , looking pleased .
we parted in this mood of friendly bantering .
but walking homeward , i knew that my mind was operating on two levels .
on one , i was developing a closeness with alma that i found pleasing and gratifying .
on the other , i was ready to throw myself heart and soul into whatever adventures i could find in the proximity of herbert west .
it was as though i stood in a house looking out through two different windows .
from one i saw a warm and sunlit meadow , humming with bees , from the other a black sky blazing with unknown stars .
the next morning i decided to go to church .
i was not a regular churchgoer , and when i went it was not for the conventional reasons .
i went to honour the memory of my mother , helen devereaux milburn , and to hear the music .
i did not consider myself a practicing catholic , but my mother had been one , and for her sake i maintained a tenuous link with the roman church .
there was no catholic church in arkham .
that town had not gone so far from its puritan roots as to permit such a thing .
it was necessary to go to neighbouring bolton , where a large population of irish and italian immigrants attended the cathedral of the immaculate conception .
it had rained in the night , but the sky had cleared by the time i set out .
the sun was swimming up from a sea of mist which gave ordinary things an otherworldly air .
the venerable buildings of arkham were softened in outline , yet sparkled as sun shot raindrops fell from eaves and cornices .
the air was sweetly fragrant and birds sang loudly .
a short walk took me to river street , where i boarded the old , rattling bus that shuttled between arkham and bolton twice a day .
bolton is situated on a small hill , and so escapes the fogs and mists that plague arkham .
the hill falls sharply to the river on one side .
at its summit is the cathedral , a neo gothic building of the late 19th century , built large to accommodate the sizeable congregation of bolton and the surrounding districts .
no restraint had been exercised in the frescoes , which depicted various scenes from the bible and the lives of the saints in vivid , almost lurid detail .
and yet , i found it peaceful .
the effect of the frescoes was softened by the scale of the building and the way the light fell through the tall windows .
there was an atmosphere of stillness which is common to all places of worship , from a quaker meeting house to st. peters basilica itself .
the catholic service must be admired for its universality .
one may attend a church in any city , with a congregation that speaks who knows what language , and experience the same mass as in ones own church at home .
i enjoyed hearing the latin words spoken too , even though it was ecclesiastical latin with the singsong accents of italy .
the cathedral was blessed with an enthusiastic choir and a choir director who was a true musician franz marcello , an austrian italian .
he was a skilled organist , composer and choir director .
the congregation was regularly treated to very fine singing , and occasionally to miracles of renaissance polyphony .
to hear the mass sung , rather than spoken is a true pleasure , when the singers know their work and do it well .
today , to my delight , it was palestrinas missa papae marcelli , which strikes such a fine balance between ornateness and simplicity .
i lost myself in the overlapping waves of pure sound , unfolding and unfolding around me until i felt myself to be in the middle of a crystal globe suspended in a gulf of sunlight .
from the first notes , i was borne upward by the voices , clear sopranos and deep baritones , floating on the sunlit air charged with dust motes .
i was more than usually moved , probably because of the strangeness and potential dangers of the things about which west had told me , and the need to come up with an answer for him the next day .
during the sermon , which was a long one , i thought again of wests ideas about death and its possible reversal .
did i believe him ?
what did i myself think about death ?
both my parents had died prematurely , my father by his own hand .
i could not see that revivification such as west proposed would have served either of them had my father returned to life he would still have been a failed banker .
and my mother would have been the widow of a suicide , who had lost her home , her social position and her garden .
my mothers garden !
i think it was the great joy of her life , more than my father , certainly , or me , or even music .
it was when she no longer had it that she sickened and died .
we must have had several gardeners , over the years , but i remember only one .
michael oconnor had been something else before taking up horticulture , perhaps a teacher , probably a poet .
he did more than dig and prune and cut the grass to order .
he advised my mother as to what to plant and how to achieve perfection in the perennial borders and shrubberies .
the two of them would have long conversations while walking among the beds and borders , comparing the merits of one rose versus another , or debating whether lilies would do better with a southern or an eastern exposure .
the garden was their joint enterprise .
i realized that , even though my father did not .
michael left us when i was ten or so .
i did not know the reason for his going and i never saw him again .
one fall when i was perhaps seven years old , i found a dead bird in the garden .
distressed , i demanded that the creature be given a funeral .
a cigar box was found for a coffin , and michael oconnor fetched a spade and dug a grave beneath some shrubs .
after we had deposited the little coffin and refilled the hole i asked , what about birds that dont have people to bury them , michael ?
what happens to them ?
most birds , most critters , really , dont get buried by people , charlie .
funerals are something only people do .
so what happens to them ?
birds and critters , i mean .
they go back to the earth .
to the place of life and death .
come over here .
ill show you something .
near the potting shed , fallen leaves had been raked into great heaps .
michael pointed to one of them and said , heres one of those places .
you see all these leaves ?
theyll rot here over the winter and next spring and summer .
and next fall ill take the black stuff theyll have turned into and spread it around the garden .
the plants will use that black stuff to grow better .
so you get life coming from death .
its the same with that bird .
when it was alive it ate seeds and bugs and worms .
they died , and the bird lived .
now the birds dead , and a lot of critters will use up that bird , use it to keep themselves going , until they die and turn into food for something else .
this is what happens to just about all animals .
but people , now , they try like hell to keep themselves from going back into the earth .
they have coffins and vaults , and all sorts of things to keep that from happening .
why do they do that ?
i had never heard about any of this before , and found it intensely interesting .
i guess because they figure they might need their bodies again , later .
some people think our bodies will get up again and join with our souls in heaven .
do you believe that , michael ?
no i dont .
i think our bodies come from the earth , and go back to the earth .
i think thats the way god wants it to be .
maybe he takes our souls back to himself .
i dont know about that .
but you only have to be a gardener to see how life and death are parts of the same thing .
some of the piled up leaves were still brightly coloured , red and yellow .
others had faded to a dull brown , and still others were nearly black .
a rich odour of over ripeness hung in the warm air , from plums that had fallen from a nearby tree and lay with juice oozing from their split skins .
wasps buzzed and crawled around them , feeding on the sweet stuff .
here was life in death , indeed .
now , in the church in bolton , years later , sitting on the hard wooden bench , with the voice of father duranti droning in my ear , i remembered the rotting leaves and rotting plums and michael oconnor telling me of the place of life and death .
where , i wondered , did herbert wests researches belong in this cycle ?
why should i involve myself in his wild enterprise ?
did it matter that i personally had no desire to vanquish death in the way he had described ?
for me there was something repugnant about the idea of a body that had been dead , however briefly , being forced into some grotesque semblance of life .
repugnant and unlikely too .
i could more readily believe in the eternal life of the soul .
shortly after my father killed himself , i had consulted a medium in an effort to communicate with his spirit .
i thought if i could speak with him for only a few minutes i could ask him if he had found peace , and i could tell him i loved him , something i had not done for years .
but the medium madame zsa zsa was the name she used , festooned in veils and scarves , painted eyes peering at me rapaciously , had filled me with distaste .
how could this woman , with her false name and false accent , breach the mystery of death ?
rather than insult the memory of my father , i abandoned the idea .
but now , perhaps , i would have an opportunity to speak with someone who had crossed the mystical barrier between life and death .
even to know that consciousness survived the process of dissolution would be a revelation indeed .
would such knowledge increase my faith , i wondered , or erode it further ?
the experiment , i thought , would be carried out on more than one subject .
the sermon ended and the measured ceremony of the mass resumed .
for the first time in years i prayed for the souls of my parents , for michael oconnor , wherever he might be , for myself .
but it never occurred to me to pray for herbert west .
the bus was considerably fuller on the return trip to arkham .
this time , i had a seatmate a tall old fellow , somewhat stooped in the shoulders .
i like going to church , he said , sitting down with a sigh .
sometimes i go two or three times on a sunday .
doesnt matter which one r.c. , baptist , episcopalian i go to all of em .
i suppose it comes of spending so much time in churches when i was working .
he held out a hand .
my name is philip howard , by the way .
i looked more closely at my companion as i shook his hand .
he was dressed in a somber black suit , old but well cared for .
something about it , and his rather formal manner , made me curious .
what sort of work did you do , mr. howard ?
i asked .
i was in the undertaking trade , worked for wests funeral home for thirty years .
i know most of the folks in town , dead and alive , but i dont believe ive seen you before .
ive lived in arkham for less than a year , and i have not yet attended a funeral here .
were you a funeral director ?
for my last ten years i was .
before that i did whatever needed doing , drove the hearse , built coffins and so forth .
did you see much of mr. west ?
which one ?
he laughed a little .
i worked mostly for mr. joshua west and his brother henry .
they were real undertakers , now .
when hiram took over the funeral business was only a sideline .
he hired managers to oversee it .
had better things to do himself , i guess .
did hiram west live in arkham , then ?
i thought he was from boston .
right you are .
wests are from boston .
the connection to arkham was the funeral homes .
joshua and henry bought up all the homes in the smaller cities around here back in the early 80s .
and the other connection was mrs. hiram .
she was from arkham and couldnt bear to leave it , seemingly .
some folks figure thats why she left him , but i think there must have been more to it than that .
in 94 or 95 , that was .
now it might be true she came back to arkham , all right .
her people , the derbys , have been here for generations , you see .
left him !
i exclaimed .
but i was under the impression that she died many years ago .
i did a quick calculation .
west had said that his mother had died when he was eight .
he must be about twenty five now , i reckoned .
at least fifteen .
well , you heard wrong .
it was fifteen years ago , all right , but she didnt die .
she left hiram and the boys and probably came back to arkham .
she might still be living here , for all i know .
i had suspected that wests poignant tale of his mothers death was not altogether true , and i could now understand why he might prefer to think of her as dead , but it seemed odd that he could live in the same not very large city as she and continue to deny her existence .
perhaps he had no idea that she might be in arkham .
there were only three sons , then ?
i asked , remembering wests mention of a twin brother who had died at the same time as his mother .
only the three , and the two older ones were in their teens when she left , so they probably didnt feel it too much .
but the little one , herbert , he was only seven or eight , and i can imagine it would have hit him pretty hard .
he had her looks , too , unlike his brothers , who take after hiram , too bad for them .
he laughed shortly .
that little herbert , though , he was a tough one .
maybe her going didnt do him that much harm after all , or maybe he just didnt show it .
not much scared that boy .
i remember him going along with his grandpa joshua when he took mrs. beazley around to show the country folks what a well preserved lady she was .
who was mrs. beazley ?
i asked .
she was a corpse !
yes indeed , before embalming became popular , undertakers had to advertise it somehow , to get people wanting to have it done to their dear departeds , you know .
someone hit on the idea of fitting up a body one that would have gone to the potters field , of course no sense in taking a chance on running into its relatives somewhere and showing it around as a kind of sample .
a pictures worth a thousand words , and all that .
so wests got this poor woman , some lady of the evening , probably , and gave her the treatment , dressed her up nice and drove around all the little burgs back in the hills , there .
he waved a hand vaguely westwards .
dunwich and aylesbury and deans corners .
godforsaken little places , all of them .
i dont know how much business they drummed up there .
one of our embalmers , george price , a real joker , he named her mrs. beazley after his old aunt .
looked just like her , he said , but didnt talk as much .
anyway , young herbert , later on he worked in the trade , too .
did the embalming .
that was before he went to be a doctor , of course .
i did not trouble to inform the old fellow about my acquaintance with west .
i was too occupied with digesting his bizarre tale .
my impressions of west had led me to believe that he perfectly fit the type of the young dilettante son of the nouveau riche tycoon privileged , a little dandified , but with something besides , an iconoclasm bordering on wildness .
but this !
mrs. beazley , and long drives along narrow winding roads to primitive villages so his grandfather could hawk embalming to their benighted inhabitants .
perhaps this explained something of wests apparent deviousness .
clearly , his had been no ordinary childhood .
by now we had reached the arkham terminus .
i said goodbye to philip howard , thanking him for his interesting stories .
not at all , young fellow .
people tell me i run on too much , and maybe theyre right .
its nice to find someone who hasnt heard it all before .
good day to you !
the next day , immediately after work , i went directly to wests rooms , as we had agreed .
west ushered me into a spacious room he used as a study .
the desk was littered with books and papers .
west himself appeared remote and distracted , not inclined to small talk .
i have made up my mind , i said .
i would be honoured to assist you with your experiments .
would you , now ?
he said , with what can be described only as a private smile , looking at something unguessable and distant in a corner of the room .
i was disconcerted .
had i perhaps misunderstood him the other night , and was now being presumptuous ?
after this uncomfortable moment he turned his remarkable eyes fully on me .
im glad to hear that , charles , he said , springing to his feet and holding out his hand .
i got up and took it .
we stood there for a moment , hands clasped , and i felt a most extraordinary elation rush through me .
then he said , this calls for a toast .
he left the room briefly and returned with a bottle of whiskey .
as we raised our glasses he said , to our enterprise !
death be vanquished !
after this he became businesslike .
i want to make sure you know exactly what it is we will be doing , he began .
securing a suitable body is the most difficult problem .
the obituaries are no good these days .
people who put obituary notices in the newspapers generally get their deceased relatives embalmed .
and even though embalming was one of the things that showed me how revivification might be accomplished , its entirely fatal to my process , which depends on the interaction of the introduced fluid with the natural blood .
an embalmed body no longer has any natural blood .
bodies buried in the potters field are therefore superior for my purposes to the worthies in christ church cemetery .
a kind of social reversal , you might say .
he smiled .
the thing about burials in the potters field is finding out about them in time .
obviously , we cant hang about in the burial ground on the chance .
i figure accident victims would be the best specimens , provided theyre not too mangled by whatever killed them .
excuse me herbert , i interrupted , using his first name , as he had used mine .
where are we going to do the experiment ?
he looked annoyed .
havent you been listening ?
the logical place would be one of the labs in the med .
school , but since logic doesnt operate there , the only other possibility is here , in my rooms .
even that will be risky enough .
well have to get the apparatus in place with only the shortest notice , since i dare not set it up ahead of time and risk its existence being discovered .
another thing , charles the revivifying solution is quite unstable .
im certain , based on my animal experiments , that it loses its effectiveness after a few hours .
so you see , as soon as i hear of a suitable body , we must formulate the solution , set up the equipment , and transport the subject in short order .
thats why i need your help .
what will you want me to do , exactly ?
well , that depends on the precise circumstances .
youll set up the apparatus , i think .
ill show you how it works in a few minutes .
ill cook the solution .
but the trickiest thing will be getting the body into the house .
dont imagine that well carry it on a stretcher .
that would be as sure a way as any to tell anyone who happens by that something unorthodox is going on .
no , ive decided that the best approach would be for the two of us to act like gentlemen returning home from a jolly evening , holding up our even more inebriated companion .
think youre equal to that , charles ?
i was momentarily horrified .
of course i had realized that wests experiments of necessity involved corpses , but in my navet i had not imagined that my role would require me to handle them in any intimate way .
i had imagined myself standing at wests side , handing him things and watching enthralled as he performed his scientific miracles .
suddenly i remembered what philip howard had told me about west and mrs. beazley .
i shuddered .
what was i getting myself into ?
but it was too late to back out .
i hope i can do it , i said , as steadily as i could .
do you have the equipment here ?
perhaps you could show me how it works now .
i was determined to forge ahead , hoping that my misgivings did not show on my face .
not so fast , charles .
theres one more thing i have to tell you .
then ill give you a minute to think about the whole business again before you really decide .
i realize this must seem pretty drastic to someone who hasnt had my experience .
you must understand , he said , looking at me seriously , that i have no idea what a revivified body might do .
without a doubt , brain cells will have been lost during the interval of death .
the brain chemistry may have changed too , in some subtle way .
thats why freshness is so important .
we may find ourselves dealing with a quasi vegetable idiot , or with a person who appears to be entirely normal , but with some loss of cognition .
on the other hand , we may get violent reactions of the most extreme sort .
i found this to be quite common in my animal experiments .
after a while i routinely used restraints and kept a syringe full of a deadly alkaloid on hand to dispatch any subjects of the violent sort .
this is a dangerous business , he said slowly and emphatically .
think about it for five minutes .
if you decide you want out ill not blame you .
he returned to his writing , completely ignoring me .
i watched him as he made some notes , shuffled through papers , got up to take a book from a nearby shelf , consulted it , wrote some more .
my mind was completely blank .
for me it really was too late to back out , and had been so ever since i had made my declaration upon my arrival .
but i let the five minutes elapse , just the same .
when the allotted time had passed he directed his gaze back to me and asked , well , charles , are you in or out ?
im in , i said , relieved that the period of limbo was over .
good .
actually , i knew you would be .
but i wanted to make sure it was a considered decision on your part .
now come with me and ill show you the apparatus .
he led me to a small room at the back of the house , ostensibly used for storage .
there was a large table by one wall , which could be moved to the centre of the room .
inside a crate was the apparatus for creating and administering the critical fluid .
the idea is that everything can be dismantled and packed away quickly , should the need arise .
that would be fine in case of a superficial search , by police or others .
it would not , of course , be proof against a more systematic investigation , which is why im so anxious to achieve success quickly .
once i get some documented positive results , those fools at the med .
school will have to acknowledge the value of my work .
besides , after this summer ill be neck deep in clinical work .
sixteen hour days wont give me much time for this .
assembling the apparatus was not overly complicated , although i could see that care was needed to make certain that all the connections were properly made and tightly secured .
west spent less time showing me the laboratory equipment he would use for preparing the solution balances , beakers , flasks , pipettes , a long glass cylinder he called a burette , and a host of other things .
i found it all rather bewildering , but reflected that i would not , after all , be required to use it .
once we had finished with these practical matters , west cooked us a supper , for it was growing late .
he was as quick and neat handed in the kitchen as among his test tubes and retorts .
i cook quite well , actually he said .
it saves a lot of time , not to be forever running out to taverns and restaurants and getting distracted .
this frittata , now , will have taken less than half an hour from start to finish .
and that includes eating it .
frittata ?
i asked .
i thought that was an omelet .
it was very good but with flavourings new to me .
i was no hand at cooking , which made me a ready victim of my landladys miserly meals .
so it is , but an italian one .
where did you learn to cook italian omelets , herbert ?
from an italian lady .
what did you think ?
he gave me a look of amusement combined with something else which made me desist from further questioning .
i had a sudden vision of west in a kitchen with a fascinating dark haired woman .
the process of digesting this idea as well as the meal left me rather bemused .
before we parted , west stressed once more the need for prompt action should a suitable corpse become available .
ill send you a message , he said .
either at the library or at your rooms .
come here immediately and be prepared for a long night .
he handed me some books .
i dont expect you to become either a chemist or a physicians assistant , he said , but it wouldnt hurt you to get acquainted with some of the fundamentals of anatomy and laboratory work .
that evening , i had a look through the anatomy book .
i found it hard going , and the illustrations were rather loathsome .
it occurred to me once more that west may not have found the best possible assistant in me .
ironically , alma halsey , with her scientific background and quick wit , would have been a more suitable choice .
but i did not think she would be at all sympathetic to his cause , and her general dislike and suspicion of him would preclude such sympathy from developing .
i awoke with a jolt at three in the morning , a bizarre dream fuming its way through my waking brain .
i had been frantically trying to connect wests revivifying apparatus to a red haired , painted faced hag who could only have been the infamous mrs. beazley .
all the while , west was impatiently tugging at my sleeve and saying , hurry up , charles .
freshness is absolutely critical if you want to save her .
chapter 4 i asked alma halsey to go out with me several times that summer , to a lecture , a play and a band concert in the park by the river .
on none of these occasions did i speak of west to her , and she did not ask me whether i had any dealings with him .
one july evening , as we walked slowly along french hill street toward the house where alma lived , i asked about her father , dr. allan halsey .
i was curious to find out more about wests nemesis , even though alma was hardly an unbiased source .
papa ?
oh , hes the original solid citizen .
too solid , i think .
no new ideas can penetrate that cranium , not if they come from me , anyway .
he was dead set against my going to medical school , but thought librarianship was a suitable profession for a young lady .
and at least he and mama have been good about my working at a job .
and i managed to move out of their house .
the wife of one of papas colleagues needed a companion when her husband died .
she keeps afloat by renting out rooms , you see , so the parents agreed that i should live with her and help her out .
i think its because theyre sure its only temporary .
until the right young man comes along , you know .
and is it ?
i asked .
not at all .
i intend to go on working , whether i get married or not .
and i have no plans for that at present , she said , laughing .
i did something else during those weeks of waiting .
i went once more to look at the necronomicon , this time for my own reasons .
the more i read about the medical and scientific topics recommended to me by west , the less i understood his reasons for consulting the ancient tome .
i could not fathom how a medical researcher in the 20th century could find anything even remotely relevant in the writings of an arab of yemen who had lived more than a thousand years before .
there was also the disturbing memory of the hours i had spent poring over the book at wests side , translating , supposedly , but i knew not what .
again and again i had tried to relive that experience , to wring memories from my brain .
had i been the victim of a hallucination ?
i am a competent latinist , but had found the language of the necronomicon dense and impenetrable .
i had translated word by word , not comprehending any unified meaning .
so late one day , i went again to the librarys administration office .
it was a hot , still afternoon .
the formidable miss hardy was on her annual vacation , leaving the office staffed only by her assistant , a browbeaten young woman by name of miss reid .
she had no objection to my brief explanation that i needed to check a reference in one of the rare books in the vault .
i unlocked the heavy door and entered .
it was a little cooler there but the air seemed dead .
because i expected my visit to be a brief one i did not bother to carry the book out to the consultation room .
when i lifted it from its drawer , it felt extraordinarily heavy , even more than it had when i handed it to west .
and again , i was conscious of an odour cold earth , as on that other occasion , but also a faint scent of narcissus .
when i laid the volume on the table at the back of the vault i felt as though i relinquished a heavy burden .
i certainly did not expect to be able to find the exact passages i had translated for west .
i remembered that he had brought some references with him , which he had used to find the paragraphs that interested him .
he had never told me how he could have navigated with such precision in a book he had never seen before , an ancient book which lacked such modern features as a table of contents or index , written in a language with which he was only just conversant .
i opened the book at random and read the first text i saw .
the black type was so sharp and bright that the letters seemed almost alive .
it was as though the necronomicon spoke to me , confidentially , in a barely audible murmur .
as nearly as i can remember , this is what it said the translation my own , of course the wind of the world blows equally through the living and the dead .
he that fears not the night nor the worm that gnaws , he that looks into the microcosm and the macrocosm , he that dares to follow the spiralling of the blood into the abyss , may cleave the lesser from the greater , the immortal from the mortal , and find life in the place of death .
but one that ventures therein should have at his side a good companion as his doorkeeper and warden , for it is written that none shall tarry over long in the nether deeps , lest he cede himself entirely to the worm .
surely this was the passage i had vaguely remembered !
profoundly astonished , i read it again .
comprehension brushed at my consciousness , then departed on dark wings .
the perfume of narcissus was suddenly intolerable .
blackness enfolded me , and i fainted , sliding to the floor while grasping at the table for support .
i came to myself to find miss reid grasping my shoulder and whispering anxiously .
mr. milburn , wake up !
mr. milburn , are you all right ?
should i fetch a doctor ?
oh dear , oh dear !
im all right , i said , although i wasnt .
my head ached and i felt embarrassed and confused .
it had been a mistake to stay in the airless vault , especially on such a hot day .
really , miss reid , im fine .
its quite hot and stuffy in here , and i must have nodded off .
i think i had better go home now .
with her rather ineffectual help , i managed to get to my feet and close the necronomicon , taking care to avoid looking at the page i had been reading .
the strange perfume had vanished as though it had never been .
it was only as i was leaving the library that i remembered i had not made a note of my visit in the vault log , contrary to regulations .
by the following afternoon i was feeling better , although i had a lingering headache .
i was leafing through an unbelievably dull treatise on greek philosophy that i was cataloguing when one of the library pages came puffing up to my desk with a note for me .
i thanked the boy and waited until he had gone before i opened it .
it was from west .
come immediately , it said .
now ?
i had never been less inclined to engage in something both illegal and dangerous .
and what the devil were we going to do at four in the afternoon ?
even at my slowest and clumsiest it could not take more than an hour to prepare the laboratory and assemble the equipment .
surely west did not intend to transport a corpse through the streets of arkham during the afternoon rush hour ?
but perhaps he had managed somehow to smuggle the thing into his rooms already .
in my fragile state i found only scant comfort in this possibility .
and yet i never even considered not going .
i grabbed my jacket and ran for the door , only to encounter peter runcible .
and where are you off to , mr. milburn ?
he asked .
the hot weather was not kind to him .
he looked damp and wrinkled .
i imagined a miasma of sweat hanging about him , and felt sick again .
im not well , sir , i answered , wildly .
this was true .
my headache was worse , and i felt hot and cold by turns .
i must go , now !
my desperation must have suggested to him that i was about to be sick on the floor .
all right , all right , go home if you must .
but i hope to see you here tomorrow morning , alive and well .
i waved a hand toward him and ran .
it was only three blocks to wests quarters .
five minutes after i had escaped from runcible , i pounded up the front steps , crossed the porch and hammered on the door .
after a moment , west opened it .
he looked as cool and calm as i was hot and frantic .
he motioned me into the hall , closed the door and looked me up and down .
you get good marks for speed , but a failure for discretion , he said .
next time you must try to arrive with less of a flurry .
we dont want to attract attention , you know .
what do you mean , good marks , next time ?
i asked , breathing hard and getting angry .
do you mean to say this was some sort of test ?
yes , of course , he answered .
my apologies , charles , but you must admit that i couldnt very well give you prior notice .
its crucial that there be no slip ups when the time comes .
herbert , i said , this is unreasonable .
i left work early , saying i was ill. therell be the devil to pay for that tomorrow .
im hot , im tired and im disgusted .
he looked astonished .
really , charles , i shouldnt think that a three block walk would be such an inconvenience .
and anyway , it isnt really a test .
he produced once more that charming smile that had disarmed miss hardy , and me , too .
we have a body .
i flopped into a chair .
this is too much , i said .
give me a minute .
you mean this is really it ?
were going ahead ?
were going ahead .
tonight .
while we fortified ourselves with a plate of sandwiches and some lemonade , west outlined his strategy .
first well set up the lab and prepare the solution .
then well have a rest .
this is going to be an all night enterprise , so we need to be reasonably fresh going into it .
it doesnt get really dark until after ten , unfortunately , but that cant be helped .
as soon as its dim enough to blur details well dress as workmen and carry our equipment to the site .
what equipment , what site ?
i asked .
i thought we were doing it here .
my headache had faded , but i still felt foggy .
the site is the graveyard by hangmans hill , the potters field , said west .
and the equipment is a couple of spades , some rope and a pry bar .
is that clear ?
graveyard , spades ?
i knew i sounded like a babbling idiot , but i couldnt help it .
were going to dig up a grave ?
he gave me a look that dropped the temperature in my immediate vicinity by several degrees .
charles , did you actually think that the body would be delivered to the door by acme corpse specialists ?
i thought i explained all that .
yesterday i heard that a young fellow named john hocks had drowned in summers pond and was to be buried today in the potters field .
so tonight is our earliest opportunity .
i thought i was giving us plenty of time to get ready , but it seems im wrong .
now , do you think you can pull yourself together by nightfall ?
if not , say so now and go home .
in your present state youll be no help at all , quite the contrary .
im sorry , herbert .
ive felt a little shaky all day .
its the heat , maybe .
but about this body , i thought you said we could get one from the morgue .
in theory , yes .
it would certainly be quicker and neater , except for two things .
one i dont have access to the morgue .
im not yet a doctor , and im under a cloud at the med .
school , as you know , so i would have to bribe the attendant just to get in .
getting out with a body would be next to impossible .
two what do you think will happen if the experiment is a failure ?
i dont think we can assume that the subject will leave here on his own feet .
if its impossible to get a body out of the morgue , its utterly beyond the realm of imagination to get one back in .
now this fellow hocks is already buried .
the world is finished with him .
he doesnt have to be accounted for .
no one is going to come looking for him .
he was from maine or somewhere .
he has no known relatives here and was buried at public expense .
no one will know that hes going to leave his resting place at hangmans hill and spend some time with us .
if we dont attract the wrong sort of attention , that is .
he gave me a hard look as he said this , obviously regretting his choice of accomplice .
its going to be a bit of a job , getting him out , west continued .
the old body snatchers , the resurrection men , didnt bother with finesse .
they just dug a narrow shaft down to the head end of the coffin , smashed a hole in it and hauled out the corpse .
so what if it got a little scuffed in the process ?
the customer was going to cut the thing up , after all .
that would be fine for us if we were certain we wouldnt need to put him back in , but since we might , we must expose the whole thing and open the lid .
and its best not to cause additional injuries .
put him back in ?
i asked , feeling slow and stupid once more .
why would we have to do that ?
i thought the idea was to bring him back to life .
west gave me another chilly look .
it is , but in an experiment one must always be prepared for results different from those one expects .
he may very well remain dead .
we must be ready for that .
now , if youre clear on that part of the business , lets set up the lab .
the by now familiar task of assembling the equipment calmed me a little .
over the table which was to hold the body , i set up a collapsible framework .
on it i mounted a reservoir for the liquid , another for the blood which would be removed from the subject , and an array of tubes , valves and pressure meters .
while i was engaged with this , west was weighing and measuring chemicals and reagents , mixing , heating , filtering and titrating .
i watched the conclusion of the process with fascination .
into a flask containing a clear fluid , he added , drop by drop , another clear fluid from the glass cylinder he had called a burette .
he was absolutely concentrated on what he was doing .
i suspected that i could have left the room , danced a jig , or done anything but interfere with him , and he would not have noticed .
suddenly , a transformation occurred .
the liquid in the flask appeared to ripple and became a violet colour .
there was no gradual transition the change was instantaneous and complete .
looking more closely , i could see a strange iridescence within the fluid .
west stoppered the flask and sighed with relief .
thats done , then , he said .
sometimes it fails to react if the proportions arent exactly right .
our preparations were complete by early evening .
west showed me to a sofa in the parlour , saying that i should get some rest .
we would prepare to leave the house after ten oclock .
i found it impossible to sleep , or even to relax .
as soon as i closed my eyes a welter of images , real and imagined , churned through my brain .
what if we were seen digging up the grave ?
how could we possibly carry the body to the house as west had proposed ?
how far was it to the graveyard , anyway ?
i wondered if i was physically equal to the task before me .
and what would the outcome of the experiment be ?
lying on the sofa in the unfamiliar room , i felt suddenly lonely for my own ordinary life .
what was i doing here , preparing to help this peculiar stranger perform an act which was both illegal and repugnant ?
just about this time , i thought , i would normally be reading a little before going to bed , or perhaps enjoying a pleasant stroll , possibly with alma .
what she would think of this stunt for so it seemed to me now i could only imagine .
emancipated she might be , but i was certain that her world view did not include nice young men who engaged in a little body snatching on the side .
eventually i fell into an uneasy doze which must have become a sound sleep from which west had to shake me .
how are you feeling , charles ?
do you think you can do this ?
i hope so , i replied , thinking immediately that i was too hesitant .
yes , i can do it .
by ten thirty we were ready to go .
we had changed into some dark shabby clothes west had produced , and carried our spades and other implements muffled in a couple of sacks .
dont hurry , west admonished me as we left his rooms by way of the back door .
were just a couple of tired fellows making our way home , not a pair of resurrection men .
and indeed , his whole aspect had changed .
the battered hat he wore concealed his bright hair , and the slouching walk he had assumed made him look the very picture of a workman going homeward after a hard day .
despite my anxiety , i emitted a muffled laugh at the double entendre .
it wasnt only resurrection men i thought of , but ghouls .
it certainly was a perfect night for ghoulish doings .
the moon was waning and cast little light .
the stars were bright in the gaps between occasional clouds .
i remembered my vision of the sunlit meadow and the black starlit sky .
i guess im flying now , i thought absurdly .
twenty minutes of steady walking brought us to a belt of trees between the graveyard and the fields beyond the town .
it was dense enough to conceal our presence from passers by until we could be about our real business .
we made ourselves comfortable in a little hollow , laying our burdens down carefully and propping our backs against the trunk of a large maple .
now that the adventure was really under way i felt almost calm and began to get sleepy .
suddenly , west grasped my arm .
i looked in the direction he was pointing .
some way to the north was aylesbury street , which a little further west became the aylesbury pike .
shadowy figures were moving along it , in the direction of arkham .
i heard the tramp of feet and some muffled conversation .
eventually these wayfarers passed out of sight , going toward river street and the town .
wed better give it another hour , west whispered .
i didnt think there would be so many people about .
conversation was obviously out of the question .
i leaned back against the tree trunk and closed my eyes .
i could hear the small sounds of night creatures going about their business , and a faint rustle of wind in the leaves .
i could smell the freshness of growing plants and the musky earthiness of dead ones .
beside me , west was still as a stone .
i must have nodded off , because suddenly i was awake , aware of a new sound .
a stealthy sound , yet distinct .
i listened , trying not to breathe .
there it was a faint , irregular crackling or scraping that seemed to come from nowhere and everywhere .
i remembered where i was .
beneath me lay the dead , dozens of corpses in varying states of decay , their skulls grinning mirthless grins .
the roots of the tree i was leaning against were entwined among bones , drawing nourishment from them .
worms and insects burrowed through the mould , reveling in unspeakable feasts .
straining my ears , i detected yet another layer of sound .
not the rustling of vermin , nor the slow disintegration of matter , but a toneless hum that registered on some sense beyond the aural , vibrating the filaments of my nerves and making me at once hyper alert and paralyzed .
it was as though i had become a receiver for an incomprehensible telegraph message from some inconceivably distant place .
i began to think i could discern individual voices .
if i listened long enough i would understand what they said , except i wasnt sure i wanted to .
then west nudged me and i nearly screamed .
come on , charles , wake up , he whispered .
time to get on with it .
wait , herbert , i said .
cant you hear it ?
listen .
hear what ?
he paused for less than a second and stood up , reaching out a hand to help me up .
theres nothing to hear , now that youve stopped snoring .
i nearly woke you up a few times , it was so loud .
i decided not to argue and got to my feet , cautiously stretching out the stiffness in my limbs .
i could no longer hear the sound , much to my relief .
west picked up our tools and led the way into the burying ground .
a mist lay over hangmans brook and the distant miskatonic .
it must have been close to midnight .
unlike the orderly plots of christ church cemetery , with their marble and granite monuments and wrought iron fences , the graveyard at hangmans hill was informal and unkempt .
once or twice a year the grass was scythed and underbrush cut back , but most of the time the place was left to itself , except when a new grave had to be made .
it was not difficult to find the newest grave .
a mound of fresh soil and trampled grass made it clear that this was our goal .
well pile all the earth here , west said , indicating one side of the grave .
that will leave the other side clear for lifting him out , and itll be easier to shovel the dirt back in .
yes , we must fill it up again , over the empty coffin .
we may not be in a position to return him tonight , and we dont want to leave an open hole .
i was annoyed at wests insistence on assuming that the experiment would be a failure , leaving us with a corpse on our hands again in the end .
if success was so unlikely , i thought mutinously , why were we even bothering ?
but i knew better than to voice these thoughts .
the digging was a tiresome business , especially for me , unused as i was to physical labour , and lacking wests stamina and sense of purpose .
it occurred to me as i toiled that this aspect of grave robbing would be a sufficient deterrent for most would be ghouls .
it was neither thrilling nor aesthetic .
after nearly an hour of steady labour , west struck the coffin lid with his spade .
were nearly in business now , charles !
he said , as we scraped away the remaining soil and exposed the wooden box .
i felt relief mingled with apprehension as i straightened my tired back and leaned on my spade to rest .
i was bathed in unaccustomed perspiration .
the air in the grave seemed suddenly thick and fetid , and i longed to be somewhere else .
where did you put the pry bar ?
west asked , impatiently .
its here somewhere , i muttered , feeling around behind me .
i had stuck the tool into the side of the pit , for fear of losing it .
well , find it , will you !
we have to get on with this .
just then , my hand struck the bar , which fell onto the coffin lid with a thud .
give it here !
west snatched it from me and began to pry up the lid .
when he had loosened all the nails , i helped him lift it off and cautiously shone a light within .
the dead man lay on his back in a most unremarkable way .
i felt inclined to stare , but west did not let me .
here , lets get the rope around him , he said .
i passed it to him , keeping hold of one end while he tied the other around the body , under the armpits .
we climbed out of the grave and hauled the corpse to the surface .
i felt a distinct reluctance to touch it , but west showed no such squeamishness .
i want to see if theres water in the lungs , he said .
we must drain out as much as possible if theres to be any hope of success .
we hoisted the unfortunate fellow up by his legs , then lay him face down on the ground .
west manipulated his arms for a while , then got up .
they probably got most of it out trying to resuscitate him he said .
i think its all right .
now we just have to fill in the grave .
he jumped back into the hole and replaced the lid of the coffin .
hurriedly , we shoveled the excavated soil back into the opening and mounded it up as it had been previously .
at wests suggestion i concealed our spades and other tools in the woods .
a feeling of utter unreality possessed me , born of weariness and my sudden recognition of the outsideness of our doings .
i found the thought of re excavating the grave almost insupportable .
for this reason alone i hoped wests revivifying fluid would be a roaring success .
with the grave restored to something resembling its former state , we turned our attention to its recent occupant .
we put the body into a large sack we had brought with us .
this mode of transportation would suffice until we reached the first houses on college street .
our homeward progress was slow .
the body in its sack was heavy and awkward .
i found it difficult to maintain a good grip on the thing while i traversed the narrow path along hangmans brook .
several times i nearly fell , and soon felt a childish resentment toward west for selecting as unfit a creature as myself to be his assistant .
but he said nothing beyond the minimal instructions needed to direct my steps .
his apparent patience only made me feel more wretched .
at a vacant lot at the corner of hill street and college , we changed our mode of transport .
i was glad to lay down the burden , if only for a few minutes .
we divested the corpse of its sack and stood up with it slumped between us .
clumsily , i slung the dead left arm over my shoulders and reached around its back .
this put most of its weight on the side away from my bad leg , which was starting to throb .
i could feel the coldness of the dead flesh through the layers of clothing between it and myself .
only the living warmth of wests arm where it touched mine behind the corpses back kept me from giving in to my revulsion , dropping the thing and running away .
our unwieldy six legged mnage lurched slowly along college street .
no acting was necessary on my part to simulate the unsteady gait of the inebriated .
as i grew accustomed to the weight , something caused me to visualize our passage as an observer might have seen it .
and with this occurred one of those odd doublings of consciousness at one and the same time i was carrying a dead man and watching one being carried , disguised as a drunkard .
i seemed to discover within myself a kinship with men of darkness , body snatchers , ghouls , resurrection men , an unholy lineage harking back to the despoilers of the royal tombs of egypt .
since the distance to wests lodgings was now a mere three blocks , i hoped we could reach our goal without encountering anyone , but our luck failed as we were passing st. marys hospital .
a lone man , who from his gait appeared to be in the state we were hoping to imitate , came toward us .
sing !
west commanded , and broke into a rather good rendition of to anacreon in heaven , an odd choice , and an unfortunate one for me , who did not know the words .
but the tune , of course , is that of our national anthem , so i sang that instead .
together we created a fine cacophony as we lurched the last hundred yards .
as west fumbled with the key to the back door , a window in the next house flew open and a sleepy voice growled imprecations at us , ending with , what do you fools think youre doing , trying to wake the dead ?
fortunately , the door opened then and we fell through it , laughing like loons .
our laughter was short lived , but at least it made me forget for a moment that the nights real business had yet to be done .
and at least we were no longer on the streets with our illicit burden .
why on earth did you sing ?
i asked .
that guy across the street wasnt going to bother us .
and now whoever that was yelling through the window will remember us too .
theyll both remember a couple of drunks singing , and another who was too soused to stand .
not two men carrying a third one , who could have been sick , or dead .
window dressing , charles .
a diversion .
at least i hope so .
now lets get on with it , for gods sake .
we lugged the body into our improvised laboratory and hoisted it onto the table .
im going to wash up and change my clothes , said west .
i suggest you do the same .
were in no state to conduct an experiment .
i was surprised at this seeming frivolity in one who was so keen to get on with it , but did as i was told .
ten minutes later , we returned to the laboratory , west in a completely fresh set of clothes , i in the sweaty items i had been wearing when i left the cataloguing department an eternity ago .
west put on a white lab coat and tossed me another one .
put that on , he said .
thats better .
now , lets get him undressed .
i looked unhappily at our guest .
now that we were in a well lit place i could not ignore the still , waxy face , its eyes slightly open , giving it a suspicious , moronic look .
the fellow was wearing a dirty checked shirt and a pair of overalls .
must we ?
cant you inject the stuff into him with his clothes on ?
after all , if he gets up and goes out we dont want him to be indecent .
west ignored this attempt at humour .
we have to take his clothes off , charles .
no arguments .
whats the problem , anyway havent you ever seen a naked man ?
not often , i replied , trying to be truthful without admitting the extent of my navet .
and never a dead one .
west laughed .
ive seen many dead ones .
and believe me , he said , taking a scalpel and slitting the overalls down the front , nothing we do to a corpse troubles it in the least .
corpses simply dont care .
i did not bother to point out that if all went as he wished , this one would no longer be a corpse in an hour or two , and might very well object to how we treated it .
instead , i removed the fellows shoes .
they were old and broken , obviously the ones he had been wearing when he drowned , because they were still damp .
i wondered that they had not slipped off .
he had no socks .
west lifted the corpses shoulders and asked me to remove the shirt .
then he lifted the body at the waist while i pulled off the legs of the overalls .
the corpse lay naked on the table .
in life it had been an ordinary looking young man of perhaps twenty years , brown haired , thin but not scrawny , the muscles of the chest and arms developed from physical labour .
there was a partly healed cut on his right arm .
the skin was a strange yellowish colour , suggesting wax rather than flesh , with purple patches here and there .
i was reminded obscenely of something on display in a butcher shop .
despite wests casual attitude , i studiously avoided looking at what one commonly called the private parts .
although death had stolen this mans right to privacy , i did not have to comply .
i thought i could smell the beginnings of corruption , and a cold smell of earth .
west was moving about rapidly , collecting equipment from the crate which had been converted into a kind of laboratory bench .
he was completely absorbed , and appeared utterly comfortable with the situation , in contrast to myself , who wanted nothing so much as an excuse to leave the room .
he stood for what seemed like a long time with a stethoscope pressed to the corpses chest .
purely for the record , he said , making some notes .
i have to certify beyond a doubt that hes dead before we begin .
and he is .
at this point , west continued , in what i was coming to think of as his lecturing mode , the problem is to introduce fluid into a body without a pulse , in sufficient quantity to be effective .
in theory it should be possible to inject it directly into the heart , but in practice this has too much potential to cause damage to that organ and negate the revivifying effect .
so its necessary to use a mechanical pump to substitute for the action of the heart , introducing the fluid into a major vein and withdrawing excess blood through a major artery .
this is the reverse of what is done in embalming .
the revivifying fluid must enter the heart in order to cause it to contract , which is why i shall introduce it through the jugular vein .
and the excess blood will be drawn out through the femoral artery , which is sufficiently distant from both the heart and the brain not to interfere with the balance of things .
the apparatus becomes , in effect , a temporary extension of the bodys circulatory system .
he picked up another scalpel .
as an embalmer i would just slit open a number of blood vessels to ensure maximum blood flow .
but there , of course , the objective is to drain out all the blood and replace it with embalming fluid .
here we want to remove only a portion of the blood , and add the new fluid .
so we must follow this more exact process , because we dont want to do any further damage .
he made a careful cut into the flesh of the neck , exposing a blood vessel .
then he picked up a long hollow needle , which he called a cannula , and carefully inserted it into the vein , then repeated the process on the upper part of the corpses left leg .
he attached to each needle a length of rubber tubing which dangled from the apparatus .
i watched , fascinated yet horrified , imagining the needles , which suddenly seemed very large , piercing the walls of the blood vessels and sliding inside .
i wondered how that would feel , and thought i was going to be sick .
that wouldnt do .
i became aware that west was speaking once more .
now were ready to introduce the fluid , but it must be done carefully , making sure that the pressures are in balance and not excessive .
thats the purpose of these meters and valves .
i want you to watch this constantly and let me know the instant this one reaches 200 .
i took my place by the meter he had indicated , glad to have something to divert my attention from the thought of those dreadful needles .
west picked up the flask of violet coloured liquid he had prepared earlier , and poured the contents into the reservoir of the apparatus .
then he opened the main valve and the drainage valve and began to work the pump .
at first nothing happened , except that the tube leading from the reservoir swelled and grew rigid .
suddenly , i became aware that a dark fluid was dripping into the empty flask .
i realized with a jolt that it was blood , the dead mans blood , and began to feel sick again .
i concentrated on the pressure meter to steady myself .
slowly , the level of the violet fluid in the reservoir declined .
the indicator held at a steady 160 , then began to climb 170 , 180 , 185 , 190 .
its at 195 , herbert , i said .
he grasped the knob controlling the main valve .
a few seconds later , i said , two hundred !
the reservoir was nearly empty .
turning off the flow , west sighed audibly .
well , thats it .
thats as much as he can take .
now we just have to wait .
he turned away , checking his watch , and made some more notes .
i , with nothing to do , watched the corpse .
it looked as dead as ever .
west glanced at me sharply .
if you want to be useful , charles , perhaps you could take some of the blood in that flask and put it in a couple of test tubes .
no , not like that .
use this pipette .
like this .
then pour the rest down the drain .
i did not greet this suggestion with eagerness , but did as i was told .
returning to the room with the empty flask , i found west in a more affable mood .
i think we should see something within an hour , he said .
it was now after three in the morning .
dawn comes early in summer , so it would be impossible to return the corpse to its grave under cover of darkness .
my heart sank at the prospect of repeating our macabre adventure in reverse order the following night .
west , on the other hand , did not show the least anxiety .
people think of undertakers as only one remove from ghouls , he said , but in my experience most of them are artisans of a sort , and try sincerely to deal with their clients in a respectful way .
except that with all the new tools and techniques , its easy to get carried away .
my great uncle henry had a tendency to do that .
he would order all the latest preservative fluids , pumps , injectors , tilting tables and other innovations advertised in the trade magazines .
not to mention things like makeup , cheek stuffers , eyelid forms , and wigs .
he laughed .
i think henrys aim was to send the corpses on their way looking better than they ever had in life .
but it drove his brother my grandfather , you know wild .
were undertakers , damn it , not taxidermists !
hed roar .
and whats more , we have enough junked equipment to fill a warehouse , so dont even think of buying any more !
they were a pair , those two .
i listened to him , but could not ignore the body on the table .
it looked as dead as ever , and i wondered how long we would have to wait before we gave up .
do people often get buried alive ?
i asked .
charles , you ghoul !
no .
not any more .
not since weve had decent stethoscopes .
but at one time it was quite possible for someone who showed no obvious signs of life to be buried .
i suppose thats why some customs specified so many days between death and burial .
if hes beginning to rot , the reasoning went , he must be dead .
and its normally true .
he was amused at the revulsion that i must have shown on my face .
and of course , there were all sorts of inventions in the last century to forestall the consequences of premature burial bells or other alarms that could be activated from within a coffin , and devices that would assure a supply of air to the occupant .
a fellow called fearnought yes , that really was his name , albert fearnought , of indianapolis patented something especially elaborate .
a flag would pop up at the foot of a grave , should its occupant make the slightest movement .
i suppose it would be incumbent on passers by who saw it to salute and run for a spade .
i wonder if that would happen very often , i said .
that someone would actually wake up in their coffin .
what a horrible thought !
it happened all the time , if you believe some of the stories ive heard the older fellows tell , said west .
you can imagine a grave exhumed for some reason years later , and the body inside it with hands worn to tatters , and bloodstains on the inside of the coffin lid .
of course , a lot of those stories are mere legends of the trade , a kind of currency passed around as fellows try to do each other one better .
but i was present at one case in which a corpse actually came back to life .
it happened during that plague i told you about before .
everyone , doctors , embalmers , clergymen and funeral directors , had been run off their feet for weeks , as people became sick , died and became corpses needing burial .
its very likely that proper attention wasnt given in all cases , if you know what i mean .
a woman was brought in , a lady from the high and walnut street district where the best of arkham society lives , of course .
the family wanted the body embalmed , and were willing to pay twice the going rate for fast service , so a couple of us were diverted from dealing with the plebian corpses to handle that one .
i was assisting harry logan , our senior embalmer .
we had the body on the table and harry was getting ready to cut the arteries , in order to drain the blood .
there he was , scalpel in hand , ready to cut , when i decided to say something that had been bothering me for a while .
isnt she a little too pink , mr. logan ?
i asked .
what do you mean , pink ?
said he .
you see , harry and the others werent all that happy to have the big bosss son working with them .
oh , by the time the epidemic was over they knew me to be a reliable worker , a good pair of hands , but they werent really welcoming , all the same .
embalmers are one of the most secretive occupational groups of all , as you may imagine .
a real secret brotherhood .
he smiled strangely .
i could tell you things but i wont .
anyway , to get back to the lady on the table .
i think she looks too pink to be dead , i said , deciding to get right to the point .
perhaps we should check her over .
normally in such a case a doctor would be summoned , but we knew they were all busy with people who were sick but still unquestionably alive .
as a would be doctor , i offered my services .
harry wasnt interested .
i dont really think thats necessary , mr. west , he said .
she was brought in yesterday , after all .
he accused me of impure motives .
you just want to get a feel of her , was how he put it .
i know you young fellows .
then he proceeded to cut .
fortunately , he was a little more hesitant than usual , and at the first prick of the blade the woman shot up and shrieked .
it was quite amazing from a lifeless though pink corpse to a hysterical female in less than a second .
harry jerked so violently that his scalpel went flying .
i found it stuck in the ceiling the next day .
so what happened then ?
i asked , fascinated .
what do you think ?
a happy reunion , rather than a funeral .
as far as i know , shes still alive today .
fortunately they didnt sue .
as he talked , west had been checking the dead man periodically .
now he bent over the body once more .
suddenly he grew tense and listened intently for a long time .
then he slowly straightened up .
his eyes were shining , his face full of exaltation .
he is not dead , but only sleeps , quoted herbert west .
for a moment i could only gape .
then i hurried over to wests side .
he clamped the earpieces of the stethoscope into my ears .
it took me a moment to adjust , then i listened hard .
i heard a faint pulsing .
its only my own blood throbbing in my head , i thought , but as i continued to listen i found that the sound was distinctive and outside myself .
the dead man was dead no longer .
a few minutes after west had detected a pulse , the man began to gasp and cough .
west asked me to help support the patient for that was what he had become and prepared some sort of injection .
this should help him snap out of it , he said , as he shot the stuff into the fellows arm .
the coughing lessened , then stopped .
with a groan , the man lay down once more on the table .
i could see that a faint trace of colour had returned to his skin , but he still appeared to be not far from death .
discreetly , i tried to peer into his eyes , to see if some spark of intelligence remained , but he had closed them .
west hovered over his patient for the next hour .
he spoke little , only to ask me to hand him things or hold things .
i noticed that he drew blood from the mans arm and put it carefully into some labelled test tubes .
during this time the condition of the revivified man did not change much , to my ignorant eye , except that his colour may have improved a little .
he coughed at intervals , but did not speak .
early light was now visible around the edges of the heavy curtains that covered the rooms single window .
it reminded me that there was a world outside this room in which i felt i had passed the greater part of my life .
suddenly , the man on the table let out a shriek .
his eyes rolled in their sockets and fixed on west .
before either of us could move , he leaped to his feet and let out a string of incomprehensible words , although west declared later that they sounded to him like , jesus , mary !
help me !
pushing me aside , he dashed toward the curtained window , smashed the glass , bringing down the curtain in the process , and escaped .
it took us a few moments to get through the back door , which was locked .
by the time we were outside we could see nothing of the fleeing figure .
college street was deserted .
we split up and searched the area , looking behind fences and hedges , peering down side yards and into porches .
then we circled around both alleys which paralleled college street and repeated the process with back yards .
we searched an ever widening area , until we had covered several blocks each way , before we gave up .
by this time daylight had come and people were beginning to move about .
we walked back to wests rooms , our inappropriate laboratory garments rolled up under our arms , still looking for our escaped patient .
he must have blundered in among the hospital buildings , west said suddenly .
or maybe even onto the campus .
you may see him in the library later today .
back at wests lodgings , we dismantled the laboratory and returned it as far as possible to its appearance of a storage room .
west declared that we should resume our normal activities , keeping our eyes open for any sign of the escapee .
hes bound to be noticed in short order , said west .
naked men do not abound on the streets of arkham , even in hot weather such as this .
but what if he comes back here ?
i asked .
now that we had begun to deal with practicalities , my anxiety had returned .
he could bring the police right to your door .
yes , in theory , west replied .
but somehow i dont think that will happen .
the prognosis for that fellow isnt good .
he seemed about to say something more , but thought better of it .
i went home to wash and change my clothes before going to work .
i managed to function that day , despite my exhaustion , but avoided protracted conversations with my colleagues , including alma and peter runcible .
the latter went out of his way to make sure that i was at my desk .
alma said only , you look exhausted , charles !
what have you been doing ?
i nearly started to laugh , but stopped myself .
i felt ill yesterday .
it was the heat , perhaps .
i didnt sleep very well , but i think im feeling better .
she looked skeptical , but did not persist in questioning me .
the previous nights adventure seemed incredible now , especially the resurrection and disappearance of the dead man .
had he been patient , victim or experimental subject ?
my inability to settle on a suitable epithet was indicative of my ambivalent feelings about the whole episode .
the corpse doesnt care , west had said .
but our man had not been squarely in the corpse category , had he ?
when he began to breathe and cough , when he had broken the window and run out into the street , he had been a corpse no longer , but wests patient .
or had he ?
my tired mind went around and around these questions , without finding any satisfactory answers .
i did not get much work done that day .
as soon as i arrived home i fell into bed and slept , if i can be permitted the simile , like the dead .
i was awakened by a steady knocking on my door .
startled and disoriented , i struggled out of bed and into a bathrobe .
i opened the door to find west there , beautifully dressed and cool as the proverbial cucumber .
he came in , waving a newspaper .
have you seen this , charles ?
no , i dont suppose you have , he said , looking me over .
well , read it now , while i make some coffee .
i trust you have some in this bachelor establishment .
he was already rummaging in my minimally equipped kitchen , finding the coffee pot , beans and grinder and firing up the gas ring .
i turned my attention to the newspaper , folded open to a page near the front .
curious incident near hospital a peculiar event occurred at about seven oclock this morning near st. marys hospital .
two orderlies reporting for work were attacked by a man who had been lurking in the shrubbery near the service entrance to the main building .
both were beaten about the head and one man was stripped of his outer clothing and shoes while unconscious .
police were summoned to the scene but no trace of the assailant was found .
the weapon was thought to have been a piece of lumber picked up from a nearby building site .
one of the victims stated that the attacker was a medium sized individual who appeared to be naked except for a burlap sack tied around his waist .
he was barefoot , but no trace of footprints was found because the attack occurred in a paved area bordered by lawns .
both orderlies are expected to recover from their injuries .
investigations continue .
by the time i had read and absorbed this , west was pacing around impatiently in my sitting room .
you see ?
he said triumphantly .
i told you it would be all right .
no connection to us , but i have the experiment fully documented , including tests on those blood samples .
there were differences between them indicating that vital processes had definitely begun .
but i need more results before i can publish .
wait , herbert , i said .
what do you mean , no connection to us ?
hocks is at large , running around loose .
he knows what we look like and where you live , or at least where he was when he came back to life .
theyre still investigating , it says here .
you may get a visit from the police .
at least two people saw us going into your place with the fellow the other night .
and we dont know who might have seen him this morning , or us , for that matter , running around the streets like idiots .
and what about his clothes ?
what did we do with them ?
wouldnt whoever put hocks in his coffin remember what he was wearing at the time ?
my mind raced .
there seemed to be so many details to this business .
his clothes are dust and ashes , so you need not worry yourself on that point .
and ive had the window repaired .
ive been busy today , unlike some people i could mention .
but never mind that , he continued , handing me a cup of coffee .
drink this up and listen .
im certain that hocks wants to avoid the police as strenuously as you and i .
in fact , i suspect he wants to avoid anyone and everyone .
the only reason he attacked those fellows was to get some clothes .
hes left the scene , you can be sure of that .
i dont think this case will go much further .
now , i propose we make some plans for our next experiment while this one is still fresh in our minds .
but herbert , i interjected , surely we cant just forget about him ?
hes our responsibility , isnt he ?
west looked at me coldly .
why ?
he chose to run away .
i certainly dont feel obligated to run after him .
now , next time next time ?
i said , aghast .
were not finished with this time , if you ask me .
aside from the moral aspects of the thing , arent you interested in hocks as a a subject ?
dont you want to study him ?
i thought that was the point of all this .
west stopped his pacing and stood with his back to me .
charles , he said , and his voice had an edge to it i had not heard before , this is my experiment .
i thought you understood that .
im finished with hocks .
is that clear ?
he turned around and looked at me .
i made myself meet his eyes , startled for an instant to see in them a flicker of uncertainty , quickly suppressed .
then he went on , as though the interruption had not occurred .
for one thing , i think i had better rig up some sort of restraints on the table .
we cant have subjects running amuck .
i should have done it before , considering the violence i saw in some of the animals .
were lucky he just ran away and didnt attack one of us .
im sure if we could just get a fresher corpse wed have even better results he went on and on , speaking ostensibly to me , but in reality using me as an object toward which to direct his thoughts , which at times ran too quickly for me to follow .
i watched him and listened with an odd mixture of dismay , irritation and fascination .
he was in full flight , and had been all day , that was obvious .
i wondered whether he had slept at all .
..so i think we must try it again as soon as a suitable subject becomes available .
are you game , charles ?
he spun around and faced me , smiling , those remarkable eyes full of certainty that my answer would be yes .
yes , i said , despite my misgivings .
but i have to admit , herbert , i hope it wont be for at least a week .
i dont have as much stamina for these goings on as you .
and i still think we should try to find hocks .
nonsense , he said , laying a hand briefly on my shoulder .
you did well .
i couldnt have managed without your help .
as for hocks , i wont bore you with technicalities , but im certain weve seen the last of him .
and now , what do you say to some dinner ?
my treat , but it will have to be da vincis again , since its so late .
in da vincis grill , we were shown to the same private corner table as before .
our conversation during the meal was general , as though west had put the topic of his research into a box .
every now and then i caught myself wondering where john hocks was , and what he might be doing , but i said nothing .
as we walked homeward through the deserted streets , i noticed that west looked behind him several times .
i nearly asked him why , but doubted that he would admit that he was still nervous about hocks .
before we parted , i surprised myself by asking , why do you want to revivify dead bodies , herbert ?
i know youve explained it before , but whats your real reason ?
is it immortality youre looking for ?
yes , ultimately .
but if it is ever to become possible , it will be only because someone dared to learn more about death what it really is .
thats the ultimate secret , isnt it ?
but i think it will take me the rest of my life to fathom it .
it had become my custom , two or three days a week , to accompany alma to french hill street after work before making my way back to my own lodgings on peabody avenue .
the day after hockss disappearance , she seemed somewhat preoccupied .
as we went down the granite steps of the library and across the main campus quadrangle she said , i couldnt help overhearing what runcible wanted to talk to you about couldnt help overhearing ?
i mocked .
by now i was aware of the fact that , due to some quirk of acoustics , there was a spot by a certain section of the shelflist that allowed one to hear most of what was said in the department heads office , as long as the door was open .
i wondered why you had so much shelflisting to do in the history section .
i was diversifying my areas of expertise , said alma .
but seriously , i thought i heard him say he saw you roaming around the streets at dawn yesterday .
he did , but so what ?
hes an interfering busybody .
i thought you looked like death warmed over yesterday .
wait a minute it has something to do with herbert west , doesnt it ?
that grave at hangmans hill what grave ?
i asked .
i knew i had spoken too quickly and urgently , but i could not help myself .
alma looked at me strangely .
havent you heard ?
it was in this mornings advertiser .
someones been digging in a grave in the potters field , the one where that fellow who drowned was buried the other day .
her eyes widened .
oh charles , dont tell me youre mixed up in some sort of insane body snatching operation of wests !
i kept my voice calm .
alma , youre making some big assumptions here .
yes , i was out early yesterday , or late , if you prefer .
herbert and i made a night of it and i slept on his sofa for a while .
i was sick earlier , but by the time he turned up that night i was feeling better , so and yes , this time we did go to water street .
runcible must have seen me when i was on my way home .
i dont know anything about any grave .
you seem to think that west does nothing but collect corpses .
actually , he has many interests .
interests on water street , alma said .
i dont know that i would be too proud of sharing those , if i were you .
really , charles , i still think you should avoid him .
i did not want to fabricate untruths in order to reassure her , and i could not tell her the truth .
instead , i took her hand and said , dont worry , alma .
when it comes to a choice between herbert west and water street , or you and french hill street , youre the winner .
oh , you youre just trying to divert me with sweet talk .
but she looked pleased , and did not question me further about west .
it was only later that i realized i had lied to her after all .
west was right , in a way .
our involvement with the corpse of john hocks was never brought home to us by any of the conventional authorities , although we had i thought left such a trail of evidence that any competent investigator should have found it necessary to question one or both of us .
our grave digging tools , for example , stayed in the woods near hangmans brook for several days before i remembered them .
west retrieved them that night , but anyone could have found them in the meantime .
fortunately for us , the authorities did not think it necessary to exhume hockss coffin to make sure he was still in it .
they must have assumed that the disturbed earth on the grave was the doing of pranksters or amateur ghouls who had done no more than scuffle the surface to elicit thrills .
this was arkham , after all .
up to a point the usual laws were enforced , but beyond it was a shadowy region in which wandering corpses , abducted infants and unorthodox ceremonies were ignored by the authorities , as though denial negated their existence .
as we would eventually discover , this official blindness had its own hidden rules and boundaries .
both west and i kept our ears and eyes open for further news of the escapee .
ten days went by and i was beginning to feel a tentative relief when stories appeared in the papers about a furtive wild man who had been sighted around farms in the region , stealing from orchards and gardens .
over the next three months , details of increasing gruesomeness emerged , of animals taken and found to have been drained of blood .
as often happens in rural areas , wild tales began to circulate of a monster that fed on blood .
the arkham advertiser , in a typical effort at urban sophistication , treated these rumours with a levity that was nearly offensive .
wild man seen again read a headline in the middle of august .
the wild man of arkham has apparently struck once more , this time at summers farm .
mr. summer said he spotted a shambling form among the farms outbuildings at dusk on wednesday , but could not see it clearly enough to furnish a description .
investigations showed that some tools were missing from a shed , specifically a mattock and a spade .
the spade was subsequently located at the edge of a potato field , where someone had apparently been digging potatoes .
mr. summer has also reported apples stolen from trees at the far end of his orchard and the theft of chickens and eggs .
evidently the wild man is attempting to obtain a well rounded diet .
similar thefts have been reported from other farms between arkham and bolton this summer .
the missing mattock has not been found .
he was at summers farm , i said to west the next time i saw him .
do you suppose thats significant ?
the other sightings were all closer to bolton .
west seemed inclined to ignore my question .
who was at summers farm ?
he asked , finally .
what are you talking about ?
john hocks , of course , i said .
do you think hes trying to find his way back or something ?
trying to find us ?
no , i dont , west said , frowning .
and whats more , i wouldnt assume all these supposed thefts from farms were done by hocks .
if hes trying to get back somewhere it would be to maine , wouldnt you think ?
thats where he was from .
these farmers just want to stir things up i doubt if they count their chickens every day in the literal sense , anyway .
as for hocks , im certain hes either dead or gone .
most likely both .
but dead chickens were found .
and lambs too .
someone had eaten parts of them .
raw .
no doubt something did eat them , but why should it be hocks ?
any other time dead livestock has been found , people quite reasonably assumed it was roaming dogs or other animals that were responsible .
but its much more exciting to speculate about a fiendish wild man , especially when the papers cater to the notion .
he refused to listen to any more about hocks and grew angry any time i brought up his name .
chapter 5 some years before , i had for a time read anything i could find about the experiences of persons who had nearly died but had subsequently been resuscitated or had spontaneously recovered .
their reports of what they experienced while dead demonstrated a surprising degree of similarity a feeling of floating toward a distant light , of great peace and exaltation .
some had seen their own bodies lying far beneath them .
most had been unhappy to return to life , feeling deprived of the tremendous events of which they had experienced only the beginning .
i had developed this interest after the deaths of my parents , of course , and after i had abandoned any efforts to communicate with them through a medium .
i was drawn to the idea that a dying person may experience something wonderful , rather than the terror of imminent extinction .
after wests initial revivification attempt , i remembered these accounts of the near death experience , and wondered what john hocks might have reported to us had there been an opportunity to question him .
with all the excitement , i had not considered doing this until after hocks had vanished .
i suppose it was also because i had not really believed that wests treatment would be successful .
after all , my participation in the business had been prompted not by scientific motives but by personal ones namely , a fascination with the investigator , rather than with the subject being investigated .
but now i had an opportunity to pursue this area of interest , as well as assisting west with his .
i drew up a list of questions to ask what did you see ?
how did you feel ?
were you afraid ?
could you hear sounds ?
were there any others in that place ?
and so on .
i became quite enthusiastic and finally discussed the matter with west .
i have no objections , charles .
if you want to interview the subjects , feel free , as long as you are prepared to quit immediately should it become necessary .
in fact , it would be useful for me to observe their responses to your questions oh , not what they say , but how well they understand and articulate .
as an indication of cognitive function , you know .
why not what they say ?
it might be interesting .
to a romantic like you , because these are romantically inspired questions .
i can give you the real answer now the glorious visions result from brain cells starved of oxygen .
its like the fall colours of the leaves , which are also products of breakdown .
thats why you find all those similarities among the different accounts the visions are the results of the same chemical processes .
well , but has it ever occurred to you that these brain processes might be the means by which the consciousness finds the peace of death ?
after all , its not the body were talking about here .
its the inner self , the spirit , that experiences these ecstasies .
so instead of saying that the ecstasy results from the death of brain cells , one could say that the soul departs from the body in ecstasy as the brain cells die .
i suspected i was on shaky ground , but persisted in my argument nonetheless .
i think thats what the logicians would call an argument a posteriori , charles .
and anyway , you can talk all you like about the soul and what might be happening to it , but until you can scientifically demonstrate the existence of a soul there is no point in speculating about when it leaves the body or where it goes .
i am not concerned about anyones soul .
i was disappointed by wests mechanistic outlook , and resolved to prove a thing or two to him , just as he was determined to prove to the miskatonic professors that the ideas they had mocked had a basis in fact .
by the time the fall semester began , west was fully reinstated at the medical school and started his internship at st. marys hospital .
on the few occasions we met he warned me that he had every intention of carrying out another revivification experiment as soon as the opportunity arose .
now that i have full laboratory access and am working in the hospital too , it will be much easier , although still risky , he said .
at least the matter of transport will be simpler .
no more grave robbing and getting overly friendly with corpses on the street , charles .
i had to admit that this was a relief .
there had been no more reports of the supposed wild man , and when i thought of john hocks at all , i assumed he had left the district .
early in october miskatonic threw open its doors to alumni , supporters and the interested public for its quadrennial open house .
this event was intended to promote the institution as a worthwhile cause for philanthropists , and to attract promising students and faculty .
as a junior member of the library staff i took my turn at presiding over an exhibit of informative materials and answering questions from passers by .
i led tour groups around the building , giving a set speech about collections and services .
the tour did not include the vault in the administration office .
i was asked several times about the necronomicon and the other rare volumes .
the idly curious had to be satisfied when i told them that these books were kept in a secure place due to their rarity , and that a special application was required to see them .
one immensely aged individual , however , was so insistent , and in such a whispery voice , difficult to comprehend , that in the end i approached dr. armitage to obtain special permission for a viewing .
to my surprise , he recognized the old fellow , and introduced him to me as dr. augustus quarrington , professor emeritus of philosophy .
after a moment , i recognized the name .
he had written one of wests letters in support of his application to see the ancient book .
and he had been one of wests professors , too .
i escorted quarrington , who walked very fast for a man of his age , to the consultation room .
it was my first visit to the necronomicon since that disconcerting one in july .
it was also my last , since john bowen returned to miskatonic shortly after this and resumed responsibility for the books in the vault .
i picked up the black bound volume with its silver clasps and placed it in front of the old man .
this time it weighed no more than it should have , and there were no strange odours .
quarrington did not open it immediately , but put both hands on it and ran them over the leather , in a way that reminded me of a blind person trying to determine the identity of an object .
then he opened the book and leafed through it , seemingly at random .
at intervals he bent so closely to the page he was looking at that he seemed about to kiss it .
more than once , he muttered words incomprehensible to me , words which did not sound like any language with which i was acquainted .
at length he closed the book and laid his hands on the cover again .
then he looked up at me .
to my surprise , he was grinning .
youve looked in it .
oh yes , my boy , i can tell .
i can tell that someone has looked .
not just you , but another , and hes taken something away , too .
its out in the world again , doing the work .
i can tell .
i tried to reassure him that no one had taken anything from the book that would not be allowed .
but old quarrington merely chuckled to himself and repeated , its out there , working .
he said nothing more , except just as we were leaving the administration office he looked at me hard with eyes of a startling blue and said , be careful , young fellow , and tell your friend the same .
him especially .
hes not as tough as i once thought .
youre the tough one .
on the final evening of the open house , there was a reception in the librarys main hall , hosted by dr. armitage .
all members of the professional staff were expected to put in an appearance , circulate among the guests and represent the library in a favourable way .
during a lull , i joined alma near the refreshment tables .
like naughty children , we exchanged acerbic comments about the people with whom we had been chatting so earnestly a short time before .
over almas shoulder i could see a fairly large group arriving .
i think we must return to our labours , i said .
bear up , charles , only an hour more , she replied , hurrying off toward a european looking man who was greeting her as my dear miss halsey .
i might have paid more attention to this had i not heard my own name .
it was west , accompanied by several men whom i had never seen before .
the foremost of them was a sixtyish individual who gave an impression of largeness , although it was a matter of breadth rather than height .
he looked at me with rather prominent eyes , which , along with his wide , thin lipped mouth , made me think of a toad .
this must be young mr. milburn , he said , advancing upon me .
yes , father , said west .
this is charles milburn .
charles , i would like you to meet my father , hiram west .
i murmured the appropriate words , allowing my hand to be crushed in the large bony one of west senior .
in his fathers presence herbert seemed curiously quelled , his mercurial quality unaccountably absent .
though as elegantly dressed as ever , beside his father he appeared younger and thinner than i remembered him .
if i had not known otherwise i would have found it hard to believe that this pale , delicate young man had exhumed a corpse and returned it to life .
hiram west , on the other hand , had an inexorable quality that assigned a place to everyone within conversational range and absorbed them into his entourage , willy nilly .
i could feel myself being swept along to an unknown destination , like a leaf which has landed in a swiftly flowing stream .
its good to know that herbert is making some friends and getting out a bit , said west senior .
a young fellow like him shouldnt shut himself up with a bunch of test tubes and chemicals all the time .
im always telling him , herbert , you have to circulate !
a doctor is just another kind of businessman , you know , and in business its who you know , not what you know , that counts .
now youre a librarian , i hear without giving me time to reply he kept talking , until i found myself trying to explain to him what a cataloguer does , just as i had to his youngest son , months earlier .
but this time i knew it was a lost cause .
hiram west cheerfully voiced opinions to the effect that the catalogue was a great thing , the library was great , and miskatonic u. was a great place .
from time to time he would ask one of the other men in the group for affirmation , which would be promptly expressed by the individual addressed .
these men were of a type unknown to me .
they were not working men , nor academics , nor businessmen in any sense of the word that i recognized .
perhaps they were lawyers , or perhaps only what herbert had cryptically referred to as cronies the first time we had gone to da vincis .
west senior obviously preferred to travel with a shoal of these individuals in his wake , although their function was not immediately apparent to me .
apart from saying yes , mr. west , when required to , they were silent .
i was intrigued , and so had few objections when i was caught up in the west entourage as hiram , expressing thanks and good will to dr. armitage , swept us all out of the library .
i managed to get close to herbert , who looked at me apologetically .
sorry , charles , he said .
this wasnt my idea .
the paters in one of his expansive moods .
hes decided to become a patron of higher learning , and has been getting acquainted with miskatonic all week .
sometimes i think he doesnt realize its not for sale .
when i heard he was coming to the library reception i thought i had better come along .
hes rather overwhelming when hes onto something new .
i was spared a reply by west senior issuing orders .
all right , everyone !
supper time !
theyll be expecting us at da vincis .
theyd better .
he laughed loudly .
charles , youll join us , of course .
come along .
he led us to a large black car .
a chauffeur stood by holding the door for him .
i slid into the other side with herbert .
the entourage climbed into two other cars parked nearby .
one preceded us and the other followed as we set out .
while herbert had been given a certain deference and a secluded corner table at da vincis , hiram got the red carpet treatment , almost literally .
the head waiter and some of his subordinates were lined up at the door as we filed in .
he showed us to a group of tables , at which the cronies disposed themselves in some predetermined pattern .
hiram took a place at the centre , commanding herbert to sit at his left , me at his right .
i was the guest of honour , apparently , which made me nervous .
drinks appeared as though by magic , followed by what could be described only as a feast , liberally accompanied by more drinks .
my host exhorted me to partake freely .
my recent experience with elaborate dinners was limited , but those i had been invited to had generally included ladies .
this one was unique in being an all male event , which , to me , seemed unfinished , even crude .
no one became disorderly , but it lacked grace .
hiram west set the conversational topics and tone .
while i knew that the matters talked about could be broadly described as business , it was surprisingly difficult to determine just what the business was .
names and numbers were frequently mentioned , along with cryptic phrases .
every now and then hiram remembered my existence and made efforts to include me in the conversation .
for the most part , these efforts were short lived and unsuccessful .
once , however , he asked me about my father .
milburn that reminds me of something , he said , looking at me closely .
was your dad george milburn ?
on my replying that yes , he had been , hiram said , i knew your dad , boy , not well , but enough to say im sorry about what happened to him .
a fellow can take only so much trouble at once , i guess .
soon after this , i lost the conversational thread once more .
west senior and the cronies were engaged in an animated discussion about the fortunes of someone called muggsy , or possibly buggsy .
i disengaged from the words , and fell to observing the men as they talked , gestured , lit cigars , drank .
i could not see much of herbert , seated as he was on the other side of his father , but i did not think he was taking part in the conversation either .
in fact , at one point i was certain he was writing something or doing calculations in a notebook .
i began to wonder what it must have been like for him , growing up in his fathers house .
it may have been rather like this dinner , womanless , rough edged , with conversations made up of short , staccato sentences , like bursts of gunfire .
and in the midst of the hurly burly was the slight blond boy , going about his business with cool self possession reading the books in his fathers library , following a path that led to science , to medicine , finally to the necronomicon and grave robbing and a corpse stirring to life in a makeshift laboratory .
i was growing tired , and already more than a little tipsy .
i wondered whether it was pity i felt , or admiration .
my musings came to an end when i became aware that hiram west was once more addressing me , should be a good one !
what do you say , charles ?
im sorry , mr. west , i wasnt paying attention .
falling asleep , eh ?
said hiram .
you young fellows just dont have any stamina !
when i was your age i would have just been getting going .
what i was asking you is if youre interested in some sport tomorrow night .
sport ?
i asked .
what could he mean ?
a football game , or hunting , or something else ?
impatiently , he explained , boxing !
the fights !
were bringing in some imported talent , all the way from new york city .
its a chance for you college boys to see some real life for a change .
i was about to make some excuse .
boxing , wrestling and all pugilistic sports had absolutely no interest for me .
just then , however , i saw herbert looking at me from behind his fathers shoulder .
gone was the dim , bored look he had worn most of the evening .
his face was animated , his eyes shining .
silently , his lips formed the words , say yes .
well , mr. west , i said .
ive never seen a boxing match .
it might be interesting .
thank you for inviting me .
might be interesting !
roared hiram , clapping me on the back .
oh , itll be interesting , all right !
now , herbert , what about you ?
i know you always say you dont like the fights , but if charlie here is going , how about it ?
he turned to his son , who , i noticed , had quickly readjusted the expression on his face .
all right , father , he said .
just this once ill come , if only to make sure you dont corrupt charles .
i dont think he knows what hes in for .
good !
said hiram .
lets meet at the mermaid , on water street .
well go from there .
soon after this , hiram called for the bill and his chauffeur , signalling that the evening was over .
herbert refused a ride for both of us , saying , charles and i will walk .
its only a short way , and we young fellows need the exercise , to build up our stamina .
when we were walking through the misty autumn night , west said , well , thats the pater .
what do you think of him ?
he seems very convivial , i said .
i suppose its being in business .
all those deals to work out convivial , nothing !
hes an old blowhard .
all right , he does have a talent for deals , as you call them , but his veneer certainly is a coarse one .
i dont mind it , really im used to it .
but this has all worked out splendidly .
i can feel it .
he leaped up suddenly , laughing , caught at a branch overhead and broke off a twig .
landing , he ran ahead a few steps , executed a kind of pirouette and waited for me to catch up .
then he walked backwards for a while , facing me .
you mean this boxing match ?
i was feeling slow and stupid once more .
yes , of course !
said west .
not that i give a damn for boxing .
a complete waste of time , i figure .
but its a violent sport , and sometimes people get badly hurt .
quite often , in fact .
and sometimes they die .
i was beginning to see what he was getting at .
you mean a fresh corpse ?
exactly !
as fresh as can be , barring i create one by killing someone which would be absurd , dont you think ?
he was half laughing , half serious .
this was the herbert west i was used to , all right .
but if someone gets hurt at one of these fights , dont they just get taken to the hospital ?
not at all !
the fights are illegal , you see .
the city fathers of both arkham and bolton have decided to ban the practice of men getting together to bash at each other with bare fists , while other men watch them and lay bets on who gets beaten to a pulp first .
it promotes decadence and disorder , they say , and maybe theyre right .
in any case , the fights havent stopped , just gone underground into someones old barn or similar place .
but your father talked as though hed had something to do with organizing this one .
oh , i think thats quite likely , said west .
fathers moral code is a very practical one .
if he can get away with a profit , its the right thing to do .
he thinks of the law as a kind of obstacle course which only proves what a clever guy he is in the end .
it occurred to me that in the way they regarded rules and authorities , at least , father and son were not so very different .
so theres a chance well be doing another experiment tomorrow night ?
i asked .
theres a chance .
i would advise that you be prepared for it .
alma belonged to a small literary circle , comprised of younger faculty members and senior students at miskatonic , mostly women .
she had at one time suggested that i might like to join , so as to even up the gender imbalance a little .
i had not been eager , being a determined non joiner , but had not refused outright .
as we descended the front steps of the library , i remembered , too late , that this evening it was almas turn to host a meeting of the circle , and that i had half promised to attend .
just come and meet them , she had cajoled me some weeks before .
youll find them a congenial group , i think .
serious , but not too highbrow .
i had not wanted to refuse .
at the very least , it would mean an evening in almas company , which i found most congenial .
i could let the literary discussion wash over me while i watched her bustle about , handing out tea cups and pithy comments .
now , of course , i had to tell her i could not come .
you didnt say anything about a prior commitment when i asked you , at least two weeks ago .
thats because it isnt prior .
its just that i met west and his father at our reception last night , and west senior bullied me into coming along to some sort of dinner tonight .
hes very hard to resist .
i hoped that she would not ask me what i had done the previous night .
yes , i saw you being hustled along by him and his henchmen , she said .
well , charles , you know what i think of the wests .
you dont really know what youre getting into .
a part of me agreed entirely with this sentiment .
but another part was full of a nervous excitement .
also , i was grateful that alma seemed relatively unconcerned about my absence from her literary evening .
i felt a sudden rush of confused tenderness toward her .
look , alma , i said , placing a hand briefly on her forearm .
i feel like a cad for missing your meeting .
i know you wanted me there , and i appreciate that .
she smiled , a little sadly , i thought .
its all right , charles .
maybe next time .
west and i had agreed to meet at his rooms early that evening , then to join the rest of the party at the water street tavern .
on the way , he told me of the preparations he had made earlier that day , should we be in a position to do an experiment later that night .
this time our venue will be one of the medical schools laboratories .
i have free access now , as you know .
itll be easier to deliver the goods there undetected than to my rooms .
i think this time we shall be able to count on motor transport .
acme corpse specialists will be at our service , he said , smiling .
you see , in the event that one of the participants is killed , the organizers are quite efficient in disposing of the corpse .
there is always a vehicle of some sort available .
there is one problem , however .
obviously , i couldnt very well rig up restraints in the lab without someone noticing and reporting it to halsey .
so well have to do without .
thats a little worrying , because men of the type we may be dealing with are given to violence , and would be more likely than most to react violently upon revivification .
but its a risk we have to take .
west certainly did not look anxious .
he was as buoyant as i had ever seen him .
something of this mood communicated itself to me , and i felt an extra spring in my step and a quickening of the heart .
as we bent our steps toward water street , we must have truly looked like what we were , and yet were not two young men heading out for a night on the town , except that west carried a black bag of the type favoured by physicians on house calls .
tools of the trade , was his terse reply to my question about it .
i had never been to water street before , although i had heard quite a lot about it , much of it colourful , little of it good .
after crossing the miskatonic river we entered a different world .
on one side of the street were the piers , docks and warehouses which were a product of arkhams seagoing mercantile history .
on the far side were the railroad tracks .
at the west end of water street was a cluster of taverns , bars and cheap eateries , most of which were already doing a roaring business on this saturday evening .
we could hear the tinkle of a piano being played in one establishment , hearty singing in another .
the mermaid was one of the oldest taverns , harking back to arkhams earliest times .
part of it was built right over the river , on pilings .
i had heard rumours that more than a few bodies had been given a quick exit by way of a trap door in the floor .
as we entered the dimly lit interior , which smelled of tobacco smoke , beer , ancient wood and tar , we found that hiram west had preceded us .
he was accompanied by only two men tonight , silent muscular individuals introduced as jerry and mike .
it appeared that the three of them had already partaken of refreshment .
herbert and i declined , so when the others had emptied their glasses we were on our way .
hiram led the way to a vehicle parked behind a nearby outbuilding .
it was not the luxurious automobile we had used the previous night , but an odd looking , boxy contraption , the rear of which seemed disproportionately tall .
ah , you brought the clodhopper , said herbert , laughing .
think it might come in handy ?
well , you never know , replied his father .
the clodhopper can handle anything we might have to deal with , and it doesnt have im a hearse written all over it .
this is a vehicle used for economy priced rural funerals , explained herbert .
father had it made up specially some years ago .
he needed something that could travel faster than horses and not get bogged down in the country roads .
he motioned me to climb into the rear seat .
hiram and mike got in the front .
jerry drove .
the clodhopper was surprisingly comfortable , despite its gloomy associations and bizarre appearance .
extra springs , herbert explained .
the seat he and i occupied was immediately in front of a space large enough to accommodate two old fashioned coffins , or a single casket of the modern type .
we drove a long way through the night .
i was never certain just where we went , but i think our direction was roughly north and west .
herbert and i did not speak hiram and the others carried on an intermittent conversation in low voices .
once or twice i glanced at my companion .
he sat upright , staring straight ahead , his clear profile as though carved in silver .
i could not begin to guess what he was thinking about .
after a longish interval , at least half an hour , and probably closer to forty five minutes , we turned off on a narrow , bumpy road .
five minutes later the vehicle slowed and stopped .
on getting out i could see the characteristic shape of a barn silhouetted against the starlit sky .
light leaked out through the open doors .
a dozen or more vehicles of various types were parked around the open space before it .
i could hear a murmur of many voices .
a couple of formidable looking men flanked the door .
they appeared to recognize hiram and his two companions , and ignored herbert and me as we followed in their wake .
inside , a surprisingly large and motley crowd was gathered .
most of the men were working class types , both rural and urban , disposed in groups and knots on some crudely built bleachers which lined three sides of the building .
although the barns original tenants had been absent for a long time , there was a faint aroma of hay and manure , overlaid with tobacco smoke , beer and unwashed bodies .
i could hear english spoken with a number of different accents , as well as italian and what i assumed was polish .
hiram west led us toward some bleachers to the left of the roped off area that occupied the middle of the barn .
here was a group of rather more prosperous looking men .
most were of the same type as hiram and his cronies , dressed in good suits , but with neckties a little wider and cigars a little fatter than good taste dictated .
there were also some who looked as though they might be members of arkhams or boltons professional and business class .
farther back in the shadows i thought i saw a couple of professors from miskatonic , behind a boisterous cluster of students .
hiram engaged in loud conversation with some of the others .
two of the younger men in his group looked toward herbert and me and nodded in apparent greeting .
he acknowledged this , but made no move to go over to them .
to my inquiring glance he said only , my brothers .
i looked curiously at the pair .
now that i knew of their relationship , i could see a family resemblance to hiram .
the three projected an aura of self confidence and control , tinged slightly with menace .
i looked away before i could seem to be staring .
herbert and i found seats in the third row from the front , near an aisle .
i looked about me with interest .
herbert remained silent , still wearing the same closed , concentrated look i had observed on the drive from arkham .
finally there was a general move to find seats .
by now the barn was full .
latecomers stood in a crowd just inside the doors , which had been pulled shut .
several beer barrels had been broached , and the contents were being distributed to customers by panting boys .
suddenly a fellow in shirt sleeves , with a handlebar moustache , shouted , all right , everyone , were ready to start !
last chance to place your bets !
there was a flurry of last minute betting .
then , from the narrow aisle which divided the middle range of bleachers , the first pair of contestants emerged .
they were a couple of young working men , stripped down for the occasion to short pants .
they were introduced as stan wozniak and tony abruzzo , to the roars of their compatriots and supporters in the crowd .
with no further preliminaries the match began .
i was too nave to recognize the vast difference between a properly conducted boxing match and this illegal , bare knuckled fight .
but it did not take long before i began to suspect that a wide gulf lay between the marquis of queensberrys rules of which i had heard a vague rumour and the spectacle which unfolded before me .
after some preliminary circling and tentative jabs , the first blow was landed , i think by abruzzo .
i was surprised at the solid , meaty sound it made , and even more surprised by the visceral response in myself .
wozniak responded with a well aimed punch of his own , and soon the combatants were exchanging volleys of blows .
when blood began to flow the yells from the crowd grew louder , acquiring a certain savagery .
the atmosphere thickened and grew faintly red before my eyes .
then the shouting seemed to recede and become fainter , until i could hear only the grunts and gasps of the combatants and the thunk of flesh encased bone on bone .
i realized i was shouting too , i know not what .
a light touch on my arm brought me to my senses .
of all the men in the place , only herbert west retained a calm demeanour .
looking at his pale , composed features , i felt a rush of shame .
in the ring , a heavy blow to the side of the head by wozniak had felled the italian , abruzzo .
he lay on the floor , his head in a widening pool of blood .
wozniak was declared the victor , and raised his fists in a gesture that struck me as gratuitous .
i could hear a clinking of coins as bets were paid up .
two men arrived with a stretcher and hauled away the unconscious abruzzo .
fresh sawdust was spread over the bloody spot on the floor .
suddenly , i realized that west was no longer beside me .
looking around , i caught a glimpse of him vanishing down the aisle in the wake of the stretcher .
i wanted to follow , but the next fight between johnny boomer smith and rocky mchenry was about to begin , and the narrow passageway was full of tough looking men i did not want to try to displace .
distracted by thoughts of what west might be doing , i paid little attention to the bout .
instead , i had a sudden vivid mental image of almas sitting room , afloat on its sea of golden leaves .
alma , wearing a dress of sherry coloured velvet , was leaning earnestly toward someone i could not see .
her lips moved , but i could not hear what she was saying .
i thought it might have been , only now west , bag in hand , emerged from the passageway .
he returned to his seat , saying , abruzzo will be all right .
it looked worse than it was .
hes regained consciousness .
i sponged him off and stitched him up .
insane business , isnt it ?
his manner was so disconcertingly cheerful in the raw atmosphere of the place that i could only stare at him .
in the ring the second bout was coming to an end , boomer smith having conceded to his opponent before too much damage had been inflicted on his person .
two or three more of these amateur engagements between local pugilists took place .
none was as spectacularly violent as the first had been , and none affected me in that unsettling way .
west began to look bored .
an intermission followed , the main purpose of which seemed to be to allow more time for bets to be placed and more beer to be sold .
i bought some , since the heat of the place had made me thirsty .
west declined .
from the excitement around us i suspected the piece de resistance was about to take place .
i was right .
the next bout featured the imported talent hiram west had mentioned the previous night .
one was buck robinson , the harlem smoke , a large black man , and the other was kid obrien , a hulking blond fellow with a nose so altered from its original shape by repeated abuse that it had assumed a most un hibernian hook .
i could see immediately that these two were professionals , if such a word can be used to describe individuals whose business was bare fisted fighting .
their demeanour lacked the feverishness displayed by the amateurs .
there was no rush to land blows helter skelter .
from the first , i suspected that robinson was the better of the two .
he was faster , his footwork better , his feints more deceiving .
obrien seemed always to be a shade late , and was soon in a defensive position .
robinson began to make contact .
again i heard that unmistakable and somewhat disgusting meaty sound of flesh striking flesh , like something being beaten with a padded club .
like the first , this became a bloody fight .
long after a regulated bout would have been stopped , this one went on and on , robinson delivering blows all around obriens head .
again , i felt that involuntary savage response within myself , but it passed away quickly when obrien dropped to the blood spattered sawdust and lay still .
this time , west did not wait until the man had been carried away , but leaped into the ring and bent over obrien .
despite a growing sickness inside me , i made myself push my way to the ropes .
west was running his hands rapidly over the fighters head and chest , raising an eyelid to peer at the pupil , checking for respiration and pulse .
to my astonishment , i heard him speak to one of the hangers on in what sounded like italian .
he beckoned me over , saying , stay close by , charles .
well be leaving soon .
obrien was loaded onto the stretcher and carried out of the ring .
that ones a goner , someone said , and several times i heard the word morto .
the one close look i had had at obriens face , pulped under the blood that covered most of it , had sickened me .
i followed behind the stretcher as best i could , afraid of being left behind in this alien environment of blood and sawdust .
we left the barn by way of a rear door .
the wests hearse was parked outside .
jerry and mike slid obriens lifeless form into the vehicle and closed the doors .
mike climbed into the drivers seat , jerry beside him , and i resumed my place in the back .
west was the last to get in .
a man who had been talking to him thrust his head into the door , speaking in rapid italian , incomprehensible to me except for dottore west .
west said something to him and laughed .
he pulled the door shut and we were off .
wheres your father ?
i asked .
some of his associates are here .
hell go back with them , or with my brothers .
the return trip to arkham was not nearly so long as the drive out had been .
this puzzled me until i realized that on the outward way we must have followed a circuitous route to prevent us from finding the place again .
once we were in arkham , the driver turned off the headlights .
hiram wests economy hearse ghosted along the streets to the miskatonic campus .
following wests directions , we came to a stop by a building i recognized as part of the medical school .
west jumped out of the vehicle and busied himself with unlocking a nearby door .
i heard him giving instructions to jerry and mike .
soon they had obriens corpse loaded onto a kind of trolley that west must have had ready inside the door .
wait at the place i told you about , at hangmans hill , west said to the two men .
if i need you again tonight , ill send word .
we went inside and west closed the door behind us .
i heard the click of the mechanism and knew it had locked itself .
as quietly as we could , we wheeled the gurney down a long corridor .
west unlocked another door , marked pathology laboratory , and we entered .
west locked the door behind us and made sure the window blinds were closed before he turned on the lights .
the room contained several laboratory benches equipped with microscopes and other apparatus .
shelves held glassware , and at one end of the room were ranks of cabinets .
the most prominent features , however , were three large slab like tables , faced with porcelain , whose surfaces were slightly depressed below a rim .
they resembled very shallow sinks , complete with water taps and drains .
there was a plaque on the wall with words in latin .
hic est locus ubi mors gaudet succurso vitae this is the place where death rejoices to come to the aid of life .
whats that about ?
i asked west .
oh , all pathology labs and autopsy rooms have those , he replied .
i suppose its meant to reassure those who must deal with corpses that there is a good reason for it .
and in our case its entirely appropriate , isnt it ?
lets put him on this table , he continued .
you know the routine by now .
get his clothes off while i set up the equipment .
here , youll need this .
he tossed me a white coat .
ready , charles ?
we hoisted obrien onto the table .
he was quite heavy i knew i never would have been able to carry him as we had done hocks , but his clothing , being minimal , was far easier to remove than hockss had been .
i could not help but note the extent of the mans injuries .
his nose was almost certainly broken again .
there were numerous gashes on his cheeks and forehead , and his lips were completely lacerated .
the flesh of his face was not blackened and swollen as i would have expected , possibly because death had occurred before this process could take place .
his knuckles were split and a couple of his fingers stuck out at unnatural angles .
broken , of course , said west , coming over with his apparatus and noticing my scrutiny of these injuries .
bare knuckle fighting is a brutal sport .
thats why its illegal .
but in this case were the beneficiaries .
here , hang onto these tubes while i clamp this thing on .
notice how ive adapted it to this table .
a little extracurricular project ive been engaged on these past few weeks .
west polished his spectacles and began a detailed examination of the corpse , to make sure that no vital signs were present , he explained .
he also collected blood samples , as he had with hocks .
while he was doing this , i asked if i could clean the blood from obriens face .
go ahead , if you like .
doesnt bother me , said west , with a shrug .
i fetched a basin of water and a cloth and wiped off most of the blood .
why did i do this , i wonder ?
for our former subject , hocks , i had felt only repugnance .
certainly , i had no reason to regard this prizefighter with any sort of affection beyond the recognition of our common humanity .
perhaps it was because i had watched him receive the blows that had killed him , and had , despite myself , derived a certain dark pleasure from that spectacle .
perhaps it was simply that he , unlike hocks , had not lain in the earth .
or perhaps it was because i considered him to be my experimental subject , as well as wests .
i fully intended to ask him my list of questions , should circumstances allow it .
i had given this some thought on the dark roads to arkham .
west straightened up from the notes he had been making and went to an inconspicuous cabinet in a corner .
finding yet another key in a large bunch he took from his pocket , he unlocked the cabinet and removed a flask of the violet coloured liquid , and a syringe containing a colourless one .
charles , note carefully where i put this , he said , placing the syringe on the bench nearest the table where obrien lay .
if he should become uncontrollable , one of us will have to inject this .
right in the neck , he said , indicating the spot .
no hesitation .
all right , lets get on with it .
looking at my watch , i was surprised to see that it was only a little after midnight .
west picked up a scalpel and began the process of locating the blood vessels .
this time i watched with interest rather than repugnance .
i stood by the pressure meter as fluid began to trickle into the corpse , and blood to trickle out .
the pressure had not approached 200 before the fluid reservoir was nearly empty .
west turned off the tap before air could enter the vein .
well , here we are again , he said , smiling at me over the corpse .
now we wait .
his words were spoken lightly , but i thought he looked a little anxious .
while we waited , we disassembled the equipment , cleaned it and locked it away in the cabinet from which he had taken the fluid .
only i have a key to this one , said west .
one of the first things i did here was change this lock .
for the next half hour we carried on an intermittent conversation while west occasionally checked the corpse .
his anxiety seemed to increase as the minutes went by , and soon communicated itself to me .
to divert him , i asked , where did you learn to speak italian , herbert ?
that was quite a surprise to me .
oh , its just boston street italian .
i learned it from the kids in the neighbourhood .
no quoting dante for me , im afraid .
but it comes in handy sometimes .
he said no more , and i wondered again about his past .
i found it hard to reconcile myself to the notion that italian immigrants abounded in back bay , or that the wests had ever lived in the north end .
clearly , something in his answer did not quite add up , but his manner discouraged me from questioning him further .
twice while we waited he directed me to turn off the lights , unlock the door of the lab and listen in the corridor , to make sure no one was about .
on the second of these occasions , i had just relocked the door when i was startled beyond words by a deep groan .
charles , the lights !
cried west .
hes alive !
my hand was shaking , but i managed to switch on the lights .
hurrying to the table , i could see that a change was taking place in obrien .
colour was flowing into his face , and a strange rapid vibration of the limbs began , growing stronger as i watched .
muttering something about , spasms , must be stopped , west found another syringe in a clutter of instruments , and quickly filled it from a bottle .
he injected this fluid into the mans arm , then listened intently to the heart .
the trembling lessened , then stopped .
shortly afterward , obriens eyes , which had been moving rapidly from side to side beneath the closed lids , opened briefly , blinked , then closed again .
west ministered to the revivified man for the next half hour .
for brief periods he was almost alert , then seemed to lose consciousness again .
occasionally a frown creased his forehead , and he groaned .
is he in pain , do you think ?
i asked .
i imagine he is , west replied , but i dont want to risk giving him anything that might destabilize him .
can i try to speak to him ?
i dont think youll have much luck .
but we agreed that would be part of the experiment , so go ahead .
only one question , though .
pick your favourite .
i had thought about this earlier .
if i had only one question to ask a man who had returned from death , what would it be ?
where have you been ?
seemed like the obvious one , but what if he answered , a barn near arkham ?
west would find this amusing , but i would be disappointed .
in the end i had decided on tell me what you remember .
this was open enough that it might elicit either trivia or great revelations .
and once the subject had begun to speak , perhaps i could nudge his memories toward my area of interest .
i bent over kid obrien , who was breathing heavily through his mouth .
i could smell a dark foulness that i instantly thought of as the smell of death .
if this was no longer a dead man , it was by only the smallest degree .
kid obrien , i said .
i wished i knew his real name .
kid seemed unbearably flip in the circumstances , and mr. obrien absurdly formal .
kid obrien , can you hear me ?
he groaned again .
then , in a faint , cracked voice he said , thirsty .
of course he would be thirsty !
i felt ashamed at not having thought of this before .
herbert , he wants water , i said , looking around for him .
west came over with a beaker .
it did not appear that obrien could sit up to drink , so he trickled small amounts between the mangled lips with a pipette .
after a while obrien raised a hand and said , okay .
where am i ?
in a hospital , west said .
can you remember the fight ?
i was a little resentful at the way he had taken over the questioning , but listened with interest for obriens reply .
fight ?
he sounded foggy .
desperate lest he lose consciousness again , i pressed forward .
do you remember anything at all ?
tell me what you remember .
robinson harlem smoke , hah !
he made a retching sound .
goddamn nigger cheats went away got away from the nigger .
went through that door he sighed , and air bubbled through his broken nose .
what door , kid ?
i asked , excited .
this sounded interesting .
i looked up and met wests eyes , amused and cynical .
that annoyed me , and i pressed on .
did you go through a door after robinson knocked you out ?
i went through !
suddenly roared obrien , sitting up .
it was great there !
peaceful .
warm .
and you bastards made me come back !
he was almost sobbing now , but reached out with a muscular arm and grabbed west around the neck .
got you !
he grunted .
twisting his body , he turned onto his side and held west in a kind of headlock .
he bore down , pressing wests neck against the edge of the table .
west clawed at the arm that held him , but with absolutely no effect .
he was agile and strong for a man of his size , but no match for the prizefighter , even in the latters weakened state .
his spectacles fell off and landed on the floor .
his face grew flushed and his eyes bulged .
fighting off the paralysis that threatened to render me useless , i reached over to the laboratory bench and snatched up the deadly syringe .
i turned back to the table and approached obrien from behind .
he was too intent on strangling my friend to take any notice of me .
i leaned over his back and drove the needle hard into the side of his neck , then depressed the plunger .
i had plenty of time in the moments that followed to wonder what i would do if the stuff was ineffective .
i had a vision of myself smashing the empty flask that stood nearby and trying to cut obriens throat with the broken glass , when he went limp .
west , suddenly released , fell to the floor .
for another heart stopping moment i thought he was dead .
then he drew in a great shrieking breath , and another , and began to cough .
i sat on the floor and held him while he coughed and wheezed for several minutes .
finally , he began to breathe more normally .
his face was pale , except for two red patches on his cheekbones .
can you get up ?
i asked .
he seemed weak , and a huge wave of anxiety washed over me as i realized that if west was incapacitated , i was in charge of this mess .
all right , west whispered .
im all right , just cant talk .
i helped him to his feet .
obrien lay slumped half off the table .
the syringe was still stuck in his neck .
his face wore a snarl of rage .
west paid no attention to the body .
he was obviously unsteady , half leaning against me .
i owe you my life , charles , he whispered .
his eyes were wide and somehow uncomprehending .
i knew we needed restraints his voice trailed off , and i thought he was about to faint .
just then i heard a door slam far away , and footsteps , faint but coming closer .
panic swept through me .
surely we were about to be discovered !
one of us had to do something .
no west had to do something .
only he had any right to be here .
herbert , i said , grasping his shoulders and shaking him .
someones coming !
you have to go out and stop whoever it is from coming in here .
i knew the door was locked , but if this was a night watchman , surely he would investigate a lab with lights on at this late hour ?
and he would have a key .
go out and talk to him !
west began to move toward the door .
i was relieved to see that he seemed to be making an effort to pull himself together , but he still looked very shaky .
it took several seconds of fumbling before he unlocked the door .
he went into the corridor , closing the door behind him .
i pressed my ear to it and listened .
is that you , gibbs ?
i heard him ask .
to my relief , his voice , though hoarse , sounded nearly normal .
i was careless cooking up a batch of chemicals in the lab here , and got a lungful of fumes .
thought id die coughing .
oh , so that was you , mr. west , said the watchman .
i wasnt sure what i was hearing , but it sounded like trouble .
you want to watch it with those chemicals , thats for sure .
why are you in here working on saturday night , anyway ?
work is its own reward , said west .
besides , i had something to do that couldnt wait .
im finished now , im glad to say , even though it almost finished me !
ill be leaving in a little while , gibbs , dont worry .
i grinned with delight .
this sounded more like the west i knew !
gibbs bade west a surly goodnight and went back down the corridor , still grumbling , by the sound of it .
west returned to the lab .
he was still quite pale , and the flesh of his neck was bruised and swollen .
we have to finish up here , charles , he said .
im not in the best of shape .
the main thing is to dispose of the body .
you have to go and fetch mike and jerry .
they should be at hangmans hill .
take the route we used the night we dug up hocks down college , then along the brook .
they should be parked behind some bushes just inside the graveyard .
i took off my lab coat and put on my dark jacket .
are you sure youll be all right alone , herbert ?
i asked .
you dont look well .
im not , but ill be all right .
he pointed to obrien .
ill get this guy ready to go and meet you at the outside door in precisely he paused , looking at his watch , twenty five minutes , if you hurry but dont run .
does that sound reasonable ?
i assured him that the time would be sufficient , and set my watch to the same time as his .
i was about to leave the lab when west called me back .
take this along .
he took a pistol from his pocket and handed it to me .
just in case .
in case of what ?
i asked .
how long have you been carrying that around ?
i believe in being prepared , he said , avoiding my eye .
its hocks , isnt it ?
i said .
you do think he might be looking for us , dont you ?
not at all , west said .
youd better get going .
carefully , i slid the pistol into my pocket .
where did you get it ?
i asked .
he pushed me toward the door , not gently .
none of your business , he said .
twenty five minutes , dont forget .
the corridor was dark and quiet .
i had a momentary jolt of anxiety when i thought a key would be needed to open the outer door , but noticed a thumb latch in time .
the door locked behind me , and i set out into the night .
it was two oclock on an october morning .
the campus lay silent about me .
i threaded my way through narrow passageways between buildings devoted to the pure and applied sciences .
soon i was on college street , moving rapidly but without the kind of hurry that might attract attention .
i realized then that despite the lateness of the hour and the shocking events i had witnessed , i felt intensely alive and energized .
even the possibility of a lurking john hocks did not trouble me .
tonight i had travelled in a hearse to an illegal event .
i had seen men engage in brutal violence toward one another , and i had seen a man die .
i had seen that same man return to life , and had spoken with him .
i had saved my friends life .
i had killed a man .
at this thought , i stopped moving .
yes , i had killed obrien .
true , he had been not far from death anyway , but he had undoubtedly been alive when i shot the drug into his neck .
but what else could i have done ?
obrien had not been amenable to reason , and i knew i could not have overpowered him physically .
west would have been dead if i had tried any other means but the one i had used .
by this time i had reached hangmans brook .
as i made my way along the hummocky ground beside it , i became acutely aware of the night , its sounds and smells the dark smell of water , the musky yet sharp odour of decaying leaves , overlaid with a faint whiff of wood smoke .
stars blazed cleanly in the black sky .
i felt as though i could walk forever through this vast yet intimate darkness .
but now i was approaching the graveyard .
crossing the rutted road , i passed a copse of large bushes , lilacs , i believed .
on the other side of them was the clodhopper .
i rapped at the drivers side window .
it opened a crack and mikes face looked out .
by the faint light of a hooded lantern they had been playing some sort of card game .
a bottle of liquor stood on the dashboard .
mr. west is ready for you now , i said .
the same place as before .
and the other one too ?
mike asked , grinning .
yes , him too , i replied , opening the back door and climbing in without waiting for an invitation or providing any explanation .
evidently , mike and jerry did not need additional details .
i had been endorsed , it seemed , by hiram west the previous night .
now , to a very limited extent , i was his agent .
this thought made me uneasy , as did the unaccustomed weight of the pistol in my pocket .
minutes later , the clodhopper pulled up to the door of the medical schools laboratory building .
checking my watch , i found it was just short of the twenty five minutes west had specified .
wait here , i said , and climbed out .
cautiously , i approached the door and knocked .
to my relief , west opened it .
behind him i could see the gurney with obriens body on it .
west had wrapped it in something , which on closer inspection proved to be a lab coat .
after all , we want him to be decent for his last trip , west said , with a smile i could only just make out .
he sounded tired .
jerry and mike emerged from the hearse , and at wests direction loaded the body back inside .
the usual treatment will be fine , mike , i heard west say .
no , i dont need a lift .
my rooms are close by here .
mike said something that sounded like , is he all in one piece or did you saw off a bit , doc ?
west made some joking reply , and we turned to go .
what will they do with him ?
i asked , as the hearse departed from view .
wests funeral home in boston was the first to install a crematorium , he said shortly .
it comes in handy at times .
we said no more on the short walk to his rooms .
at the door , i asked if he needed my help with anything else that night .
he shook his head .
no , charles , im about done in .
but come tomorrow afternoon , if you can .
id like to review the whole situation .
i agreed , and turned homeward .
chapter 6 but i did not want to go home .
i was full of unspent energy , and knew that sleep was out of the question .
i was at loose ends at three in the morning .
i considered going for a long walk to induce tiredness , and set off eastward along college , intending to take a cross street northward to the miskatonic river .
but no street appealed to me , until i found myself on french hill .
i did not admit to myself that i was going to alma halseys place until i was within sight of the turreted house in which her lodgings were located .
in those times it would have been out of the question for a man to call on a young woman of good family unannounced and at a very late hour .
indeed , this is still a breach of courtesy , if not of morals .
but somehow i had convinced myself that on this particular night , in my state of strange elation , i would be welcome .
i let myself in quietly and tiptoed up the several flights of stairs , wincing whenever one creaked .
finally , i stood before almas door .
only then did it occur to me that what i was doing was unwise .
alma would almost certainly be asleep and would fail to hear my knock .
i would have to knock loudly and repeatedly to awaken her , also rousing other occupants of the house and ensuring for myself a justly unwelcoming reception .
but so strong was my conviction that i was on a path intended , that i continued to hesitate , standing before the door with its brass knocker , caught in limbo and yet strangely content to be there .
suddenly , i heard a sound from within footsteps , surely ?
then a light glowed faintly under the door .
she was awake !
it seemed to me only logical that my presence had made itself known to her , and that now it was inevitable that i take the next step .
so , very gently , i knocked .
several seconds passed , and i was wondering whether to knock again , when the door opened a crack .
recognizing me , alma opened it the rest of the way .
charles !
she whispered .
what are you doing here ?
are you all right ?
she wore a dark blue robe .
i could see the white lace of a nightdress underneath .
her feet were bare and her hair was tousled .
she looked a little anxious , but not , i thought , annoyed .
i was in the neighbourhood , so i thought id drop by , i said , starting to laugh at the banal absurdity of this statement .
well , youd better come inside , she said .
what do you mean , in the neighbourhood ?
have you been wandering the streets again with that ghoul herbert west ?
we havent been wandering the streets .
but i was at wests place , yes .
after we left his fathers party we got to debating life and death , and lost track of the time .
life and death .
well , thats certainly a meaty topic .
i was just getting up to make myself some chamomile tea , since i couldnt sleep .
would you like some ?
alma , i think theres a reason you couldnt sleep tonight .
i think part of you knew i would come .
so forget about sleeping .
forget about tea .
lets enjoy each others company .
i felt an irresistible impulse to pace around the room , and gave in to it .
tomorrow is sunday .
we have no obligations .
i turned back toward her and took her hands in mine .
its a pity theres no music , so we could dance .
i slid my arm around her and whirled her around in a kind of waltz .
charles , whats gotten into you ?
youre acting very strangely .
have you been drinking ?
only the night air , and starlight , and intimations of immortality , i replied .
it was as though i had absorbed wests peculiar energized atmosphere , borrowing it when we parted at his door , like a coat he did not need for the rest of the night .
maybe it was because of the pistol , which i had forgotten to give back to him when we parted .
whatever the reason for this state , i was enjoying it .
it was like drinking wine without , as yet , any sorry consequences .
i didnt want to let her go .
through her garments i could feel her ribs as she pressed herself backward in an effort to put some distance between us .
charles , let me go !
she said .
this isnt like you .
why are you so ?
so happy .
because i am .
and no , it isnt like me .
tonight , for the first time in years im happy , alma .
as i spoke , i realized that the logical implication of my words was that i was happy because of her .
but that was not true , rather the opposite .
i had sought her out , i had come to alma halsey in the dead hours of the night , not seeking happiness , but bearing it with me a strange happiness born of blood and death and unnatural life .
im glad , charles .
she had relaxed a little , now , had stopped pulling away from me .
but this is so sudden .
i know it is , alma , but its right .
all night , all through that long dinner with hiram west and his associates and what a bunch they are , let me tell you , all the time i was talking with herbert about well , about all sorts of things , like what it must feel like to die , and whether someone brought back from death could remember it all the time in the back of my mind i was thinking about you .
i saw you , you know you were wearing a velvet dress , sort of golden brown velvet , and you were talking to someone , but i couldnt hear what you were saying saw me ?
what do you mean ?
it was a kind of vision all right , i did drink quite a lot of wine at dinner , but that was a long time ago .
i guess i must have fallen asleep for a few seconds , and had this wonderful dream of you .
she was laughing , her eyes a warm blue in the dim light .
oh charles , youre such a romantic !
i do enjoy your company .
even now , even like this .
especially like this .
i put both my arms around her , pulled her to me and kissed her .
this was the first time i had really kissed her .
before this , the most i had done was discreetly brush my lips on her cheek .
she made as if to pull away again , then yielded .
a long moment later we moved apart a little .
i tried to read the expression on her face .
bewilderment , even fear , but also curiosity and dawning passion .
i loosened the robe she wore and thrust my hands under it , so there was only the thin fabric of her nightdress between us .
i drew her to me again , whispering , alma !
lets go into your bedroom .
as i led her into the darkened room , as she let me take the robe from her shoulders , as i removed my own clothing , i felt something totally alien well up inside me and rush to my head like some marvellous drug .
i wondered if this was how it would feel if herbert wests magic fluid was pumped into my veins as though my blood had been transformed into pure light .
i did not know whether alma resisted any further .
i knew only that this was the end of the trajectory .
all of myself , all of these days and months and nights of secret doings had culminated here and now .
if i was a river , i had reached the sea .
i spent myself in her , in the ocean that was alma .
i awoke to bright morning light welling into an unfamiliar room through unfamiliar curtains .
i was alone in the room .
alma was not there .
i sat up , feeling uncertain as to what to do .
perhaps i should leave .
just then , she came into the room .
she was wearing a skirt and jacket , and looked thoroughly businesslike .
good morning , charles , she said .
im afraid i must rush off .
im in the choir at christ church , and must be at the ten oclock service .
i forgot to tell you last night .
but dont you rush .
in fact , i would be grateful if you were to wait a little while before leaving .
discretion , you know .
she kissed me lightly and was gone .
i got up slowly , getting into the wrinkled clothes i had worn the previous night .
i did some sketchy washing and tried to put my rumpled hair in order with my fingers .
looking in the mirror , i felt peculiar .
the unnatural excitement of the night had passed , but not completely .
i knew that i should have felt ashamed at what i had done , pressing myself upon a young woman who , though not altogether unwilling , was not unreservedly happy about what i demanded of her .
i knew this , and yet , looking at my reflected image , i , the i that was present in my skin , did not feel ashamed .
lingering among the memories of the night was that feeling of completion , of rightness .
a few minutes later , i let myself cautiously out of the apartment .
i met no one on the stairs , and only one person in the foyer , a man also on his way out , who did not so much as glance at me .
i walked homeward , unhurried , thinking about alma .
i could not guess , from the little i had seen of her this morning , how she felt about what had passed between us .
she had seemed cool and cheerful , her usual self , in fact .
i did not think she could have assumed such a guise of normalcy to hide feelings of distress or anger .
that was not her way .
and she had kissed me did i love alma halsey then ?
i did not .
i felt for her a great tenderness , a deep affection born of friendship .
for some time i had known that it was slowly ripening into something that might eventually become love , but it had not been that which had compelled me in the night .
it had been something outside myself , or rather , something which had never been a part of me before , but now was .
later that day , after several more hours of sleep , i made my way to wests rooms .
he greeted me looking quite well , and as elegant as always .
the only signs of the attack by obrien were some bruises on his neck .
im glad to see you so well , herbert , i said .
you seemed pretty shaken up last night .
i was , then , but im all right now .
but you , charles , you look quite splendid .
he smiled .
it seems that the adventures of the night agreed with you .
i felt myself blushing , and turned aside to hide it .
there was no way west could know of my visit to alma after i had left him .
well , i slept most of the day .
whatever the reason , im glad you find these experiments no hardship .
because last night would have ended very differently had you not been there .
i want to talk about that , actually .
i killed him , didnt i ?
i killed a man .
oh , and i should return this .
i handed him the pistol .
he took it and laid it casually aside .
well , yes , technically you killed him .
but as far as the rest of the world is concerned , he was already dead .
just ask mike and jerry what they brought to arkham last night a stiff , is what theyll say .
i guarantee it .
but he wasnt dead when he just about choked you !
he wasnt dead when he yelled at us for bringing him back !
he wasnt dead .
so i killed him .
you cant get away from that .
what are you saying , exactly , charles ?
his voice was quieter than usual , but with an edge .
i dont like what these experiments are doing to me .
now im a murderer , as well as a grave robber .
whether anyone else knew about obrien coming back to life or not , he was alive and i made him dead .
that makes me a murderer .
i had been facing one of the windows as i spoke .
somehow , i could not say these things to his face .
i was surprised that i said them at all .
west grasped my shoulder and turned me around .
looking directly into my eyes , he said , and if you hadnt made him dead , as you put it , i would have been dead .
would you have preferred that ?
no , of course not .
i thought about that on the way to fetch mike and jerry last night .
i reached the same conclusions .
i guess it wasnt murder , really .
but where are we going with this ?
so far we have revivified two corpses .
we lost hocks and had to turn obrien into a corpse again .
so whats the point ?
west sighed .
sit down , charles .
i thought we needed to review the situation today , but now it seems we must go back to fundamentals .
when i first told you about my research , back in may , i said , if you recall , that it was a lifetimes work .
now , how many experiments have we done together ?
two , i replied .
i felt like a student called on the carpet by his professor for inexcusable ignorance .
exactly .
two .
now , the nature of this work is such that each time a little , a very little , knowledge is gained .
surely you must have noticed the data i record each time , the blood samples i take , the measurements .
its only by building up a mass of such data that i will achieve anything .
do you understand this ?
yes .
well , no , i guess i dont .
i didnt think it would be like that at all .
i thought that after one or two successes , dean halsey would let you go ahead in the open , with the support of the medical school .
dont be nave .
academics dont give their belief so readily , and their support even less so .
especially when they dont want to believe in the first place .
theyll find a host of reasons not to believe , even in the face of what most would consider proof .
so what will it take to make them believe ?
why would two dozen cases convince them any more than two ?
because after two dozen , or two hundred , ill have enough data to publish .
it wont be halsey and his hangers on who will judge then , but scientists everywhere .
two hundred !
i was aghast .
well , maybe not that many .
that wave of the hand again .
look , charles , i think i know whats bothering you .
perhaps i overestimated your tolerance for going against the rules , even for a good cause .
its the business of acquiring the bodies thats the problem , isnt it ?
we had to dig up the first one .
for the next one we had to go through that business of the prizefight .
although you rather enjoyed that , didnt you ?
for a second , i saw again , vividly , robinsons fist connecting with obriens face , and the spray of blood .
i heard again that thump crunch of flesh ground between bones .
i said nothing , and west continued .
youve been entirely reliable in the lab .
and last night you couldnt have done better .
when gibbs came around i was in a total funk .
you snapped me out of it .
you got mike and jerry pretty smartly .
and that was after you dealt with obrien .
so i cant proceed without you , charles .
he leaned forward .
never had i seen him look more sincere .
his grey eyes held mine with absolute steadiness .
its getting the bodies thats shaken your resolve , im sure of that , he said again .
well , thatll be different from now on .
this business with obrien was a whim , i admit , and an ill considered one at that .
i simply couldnt resist the prospect of working with a really fresh subject .
but now that im an intern , i have access to the morgue .
ill know immediately when a subject becomes available .
itll be a simple matter of carrying out the procedure two or three hours at most .
no more grave digging , no more prizefights .
and we simply return our material to the morgue when were finished .
itll be perfectly safe .
so you anticipate that most of them will be dead again within a few hours of revivification ?
but hocks was forget about hocks , for gods sake !
he was a he wasnt a good specimen , ive told you that before .
yes , im fairly sure most of these morgue subjects will be short lived , which is just as well .
do you imagine that i want to start a home for revivified corpses , charles ?
i expect most of them will be half wits at best .
by the time they come into my hands theyll have lost too many brain cells to be fully functioning human beings .
obrien was something of an exception , because we got him so soon after he was killed , but i suspect that all the battering he had sustained in his career had damaged his brain .
apart from freshness , he wasnt a really good subject .
he touched the bruises on his neck .
what i saw , especially in the case of obrien , i said , were men undergoing a dreadful experience a kind of reverse birth into a broken body .
i can see that they may not be fully functioning , as you put it .
but in that case , whats the point ?
each attempt adds to the sum total of knowledge .
remember that !
eventually mankind will understand more about death because of my work .
and yours , too .
charles , what about your part ?
last night you actually got obrien to talk about what he experienced after death .
you dont believe in that anyway , i said , persisting in my role of devils advocate .
you think its just brain cells dissolving , or something .
and anyway , you could interview them yourself .
so prove me wrong !
said west .
he got up and began pacing , a sure sign that he was getting wound up all over again .
yes , when it comes to all that stuff about the death memories of the soul , im every bit as skeptical as halsey is about my ideas .
but theres nothing to stop you from gathering data to set against my skepticism .
its your project , though .
and that will mean that two different kinds of research are being done using these subjects , which is practical and efficient , wouldnt you say ?
he stopped in front of me and gave me another steely look .
because i intend to go forward , with or without you , charles .
by the necronomicon , i do .
are you with me , or not ?
if i said no , if i left , having dissociated myself from his work , i would never see him again , would never experience the special electricity that seemed to surround him .
until now , a kind of under thought had been pushing me forward now that alma and i were to be lovers , perhaps , what room would there be in my life for west and his doings , which so often verged on the illegal ?
but the brief vision i had then , as he stood before me with the question hanging in the air between us , of my world without him in it , was so flat , so bleak , that even alma seemed like a pale wraith .
no , since the night of the concert , and maybe even before that , some fundamental part of me had been linked to herbert west .
im with you , i said .
wests anticipation that the process of obtaining experimental subjects would become easier proved true .
due to a fortunate conjunction of personalities , the chief surgeon of st. marys hospital , dr. welburn bright , took a liking to him .
wests dexterity in the operating theater and his cool , detached manner appealed to bright , who was of the scientific , patient as object school of thought .
through this connection , west was assigned a small , under equipped room in the basement of the hospital , which he furnished as a rudimentary laboratory .
the reasons he gave for needing this facility were rather vague something about a special research project in pathology but they satisfied dr .
bright .
dean halsey attempted to dissuade his colleague from showing favour to west .
dr .
bright , however , felt his position of authority at st. marys very keenly , and made it clear to dr. halsey that he would not be permitted to exert his authority beyond the boundaries of the medical school .
the old tyrant has finally met someone he cant push around , said west , chuckling , as he recounted this episode to me .
alma had a rather different opinion , as might be expected .
herbert west has managed to convince that old autocrat bright that he deserves special favours .
are you sure he doesnt have some sort of hypnotic technique ?
but then , how would you know ?
youre as enchanted by him as bright is .
during this time , there were few things about me that alma did not know , but the extent and nature of my involvement with wests researches was one secret that i resolutely concealed from her .
with the unexpected bonus of his own laboratory , located right in the hospital , and on the same floor as the morgue , west and i soon worked out an efficient routine for securing research material and conducting our experiments .
west kept a close watch on new arrivals at the morgue , obtaining information on the age and condition of a corpse , and the causes of its death .
he had to be particularly vigilant , since the medical school had first choice of all unclaimed bodies for its dissecting rooms .
west had observed the routines of the hospitals night watchmen .
they were creatures of habit , one of which was card games in the boiler room .
between the hours of eleven and three in the morning we could usually expect to work unmolested .
only a few minutes were needed for us to get everything ready .
then , the rapid but silent dash along damp , brick lined corridors , the quick deployment of a key , a search by penlight along the ranks of numbered drawers to find the abode of our subject .
its silent occupant would be transferred to a gurney and quickly wheeled to our laboratory .
the revivification procedure itself became so familiar , that it assumed an aspect of ritual .
laying out the corpse on the table , garbing ourselves in white , the preliminary ablutions and wests spectacle polishing , all put me in mind blasphemously , i thought at the time of the mass .
as a child , i had sat through many a lengthy service where the bustlings of the priest and his attendants with vestments , chalices , ciboria , cruets and the other material implements were the only things that held my interest .
after the preparations would come the central matter , the engaging of the apparatus with the corpse , and the mechanical replacement of blood with the violet coloured liquid .
invariably , the tension would grow at this point , the twelfth time as much as the first .
west was the high priest , his attention fixed on the meters and tubes , the taps and the pump , and i , his eager acolyte , obeying his orders , following his lead .
then the vigil .
even now i can see the dank little room , a little too dimly lit for a laboratory , the cold corpse on its cold slab , west making notes , pacing about , checking for vital signs in the subject .
and i sitting on one of the rickety chairs , i would read , or more often , think about the purpose of what we were doing , about what might be going on inside the body and brain as wests drug did its work .
i thought about rats , and whether there were any in this cellar .
i thought about my parents , about michael oconnor and john hocks , about decay and rebirth rather than revivification , about the places of life and death .
was this such a place ?
and i thought about alma , and the things we did in her white curtained bedroom .
i thought about these things as the minutes ticked by and water dripped somewhere in the distance , and the other corpses in the nearby morgue , lucky enough to have escaped our ministrations , went about their business of dissolution .
not all of our subjects returned to life , but most did .
those who might think that wests successes were dubious because the subjects were not really dead in the first place would be wrong .
if that were the case , the physicians of arkham had much to answer for , in that so many of their patients went to the morgue with a spark of life flickering unattended within them .
of the twelve attempts we made between the boxer kid obrien and the unfortunate robert leavitt of st. louis , fully nine returned , however briefly , to a semblance of life .
my reverie would be broken by an excited word from west , by a sigh from the form on the table , or , disturbingly , by a deep , agonized groan .
i think it was the groans emitted by some of our victims that led to my instinctive but suppressed conviction that west and i were causing suffering .
whatever the value of the scientific data he was amassing , i could not help but wonder if it was justified .
for west , the moment of revivification was the goal and crown of the enterprise , whatever he may have said about data gathering .
i was engaged in another line of research during this time , a private one .
while herbert west studied death and revivification , i studied herbert west .
i watched him as the water dripped and what might have been rats scurried in the bowels of the old building .
i watched as the cool scientist was transformed into something else when the first signs of returning life appeared in the clay under his hands .
invariably , he called me over to bear witness .
even when it became evident to me that my assistance was no longer strictly necessary , even when it must have been plain to him that my enthusiasm had waned , still he wanted me at his side to see and hear and feel the evidence of returning life , life that was there at his command .
of our four complete failures , three expired within minutes of the first signs of returning life , and nothing west did to them after this had any effect .
one appeared to be stable , but when it opened its eyes , it gave us a look of such horror that i felt an answering surge of horror within myself .
then it fell back , as dead as it had been before our ministrations .
on these occasions , i noted , wests face quickly lost its look of exaltation , became still and cold as he went about the business of noting the particulars and dismantling the equipment .
the five revivified beings with whom i managed to converse were poor things , plainly so impaired in their cognitive functions that my records of these sessions consisted of little more than my initial question , what do you remember ?
followed by broken and meaningless phrases , inarticulate mumblings or involuntary gargling and gagging sounds produced by the vocal apparatus as wests solution excited the broken physical mechanisms of their bodies .
a few uttered words that seemed to be in keeping with observations made in other cases of persons recovering from near death references to a tunnel of light , perfect peace and reunion with loved ones .
i saw mandy !
said one man , shortly before his final collapse .
i remember hoping that she was still waiting for him after his second death .
none of the five lived very long after my questioning of them .
their return to life was tenuous at best , and after they had uttered their few words , or merely babbled incoherently for a while , the vital force waned rapidly .
not one of them displayed any sustained vitality , unlike kid obrien , or especially our first subject , john hocks .
these morgue subjects certainly are disappointing , arent they ?
dont you get discouraged sometimes ?
west had just finished writing up his notes on our latest failure , and i could no longer hide my doubts about our project .
disappointing ?
say rather , unspectacular .
i have learned something from almost every one of them .
i suspect they may be weak because most of them died after illness , rather than quickly and violently like our first two .
west enjoyed reviewing his data and formulating theories based on them .
he could go on for hours , quite unaware that he had left me in the dust long before .
to forestall another monologue , i decided to ask another question , one so staggeringly elementary i wondered that i had never dared to ask it before .
whats in it , herbert ?
in your revivifying fluid , i mean .
what are the ingredients ?
he looked at me for a moment , seeming a little disconcerted .
then he gave me one of his beautiful smiles .
what if i were to say palladium infused with krypton halides , bathed in essence of iridium and bound with imperishable gold ?
is that really whats in it ?
i was fairly certain he was making fun of me , but was in no mood to play along .
no , of course not , but it might as well be , for all you would understand if i were to tell you .
no , no , dont get upset you just dont have the necessary background in chemistry .
i can tell you that it contains organic molecules only one remove from being alive .
when properly formulated for a specific organism , they bind with the existing structure and produce an excitant effect on the vital mechanism .
organic molecules .
i said .
exactly .
and dont ask me to draw you a picture , because you wouldnt understand it .
unlike west , i did not have a scientists training , or the willingness to repeat an experiment endlessly for the sake of small increments of data .
it was his determination , optimism and sheer strength of will that i found compelling , even when i doubted the ultimate value of his work .
i suspect it would have been the same if his goal had been to grow a blue rose , or turn base metal into gold .
if his field had been horticulture or alchemy , however , i would have found it easier to maintain my enthusiasm .
west , with his peculiar , unemotional personality and his experience with handling the dead , was unaffected by the depressing nature of our subject matter .
i , despite developing some facility in the handling of the corpses and apparatus , was never able to harden myself to the struggles of our victims .
more than once i attempted to explain this to west , but he brushed aside my reservations as projections of my romantic temperament .
youve tried to interview them , havent you ?
he asked .
and most of them were no more than brainless lumps of flesh , correct ?
so how can you imagine they are suffering ?
what you see and hear are nerves responding to random electrical impulses from the brain , thats all .
at length , i was forced to conclude that west had a mechanical circulating device instead of a heart , or , more accurately , that he was devoid of those emotions which are normally considered resident in the heart .
not once did he betray any sympathy for the sufferings of our experimental subjects , nor even express regret that they were a necessary if undesirable by product of his research .
i had never had a close friend before .
as a child i had been thought delicate , especially after the injury to my leg , and had therefore been carefully shielded from companions and activities which might cause further damage .
being of a nature that was happy with solitude and self sufficient , i did not realize that i was missing anything .
at school i had found my niche among the bookish , studious boys , but had not formed lasting friendships with any of them .
later on , my familys troubles had dissociated me from those among whom i should have , in the normal course of events , found friends .
spending as much time with west as i did , it was inevitable that i learned more about him .
unlike me , he was a great believer in physical fitness , which he cultivated by masochistic practices such as fasting , cold baths and long cross country runs .
although he avoided smoking and most forms of overindulgence , he appreciated good wine with meals , and several times a year , not to put too fine a point on it , he liked to get drunk .
he said this was a way to clear his mind and begin afresh .
otherwise , my brain gets clogged up with details .
a good debauch is like a great storm that blows out the extraneous stuff .
afterward theres room for new ideas .
its a kind of death and revivification , only the fluid is different , he laughed .
he quite deliberately planned for these brain clearing sessions , as he called them , selecting a time when he had a night and a day without obligations .
he would lay in a supply of the best scotch whiskey and invite a selection of congenial companions to his rooms , with a terse message such as brain clearing tonight .
join me if you like .
west .
he was always interesting , even when he was irritating .
whatever the topic , he had an opinion , usually an informed one .
he could argue a point endlessly , but without rancour .
he could be sarcastic , but his manners were always perfect , even when he was lying .
it soon became clear to me that he took pleasure in deception for its own sake , sometimes telling long , elaborate lies , simply to test the credulousness of his listeners .
there was a kind of innocent joy in his manner as he indulged in these untruths and in the verbal parrying that followed .
once he told me that he had been home all day , when he knew quite well that i had seen him crossing the campus quadrangle several hours before .
when i confronted him with this fact , he said , ah , but that wasnt me you saw .
of course it was you !
who else could it have been ?
my twin brother , of course .
but you dont have a twin brother !
he died you told me so yourself .
did i ?
well , you cant believe everything you hear , obviously .
in november , a mutilated corpse was found in a wood near dunwich village .
the dead man , evidently a tramp , had been killed by repeated blows with a sharp , heavy object .
the body had also been , in the delicate phraseology of the arkham advertiser , tampered with , as if the injuries that had caused death did not constitute tampering .
local rumour was more explicit the corpse had been disembowelled and the heart removed .
the crime was , of course , attributed to the elusive wild man .
now we really have to tell the authorities what we know about hocks , i said to west .
why ?
his eyes were as cold as the time id met him in howards alley , and as friendly .
because now hes murdered someone , i said .
and we know why too .
all i know is that someone killed a tramp , said west .
i dont know that john hocks was the killer in fact , its extremely unlikely that he was .
telling the police who are , generally speaking , a herd of ignorant louts about my scientific work would only get me arrested , or locked up in sefton asylum .
you too , perhaps , which certainly would not help find whoever murdered this tramp .
he was very convincing , and i was quite ready to be convinced .
even now there are things that can instantly take me back to those arkham years before the great war .
certain musical passages , certain phrases i can still hear west saying lets get on with it , then , as he always did as we began one of our revivifications , and scents such as the autumnal odour of ripe decay , the smell of wood smoke , or the perfumes of sandalwood and narcissus , bring back to an almost intolerable degree the intensity of that time .
for in addition to herbert west , there was alma .
between the two of them , i existed in a charged , electrical atmosphere .
in retrospect , i understand that the situation was possibly unhealthy certainly it was not sustainable .
but oh , how wonderful that time was for me !
it was as though i had discovered the secret at the heart of the world and had it all to myself .
the first time i saw alma halsey again after my visit to her in the early hours of the day kid obrien died his second death , was at work the following monday .
i had arrived early on purpose , because i felt anxious about meeting her again , now that the nature of our relationship had been radically altered .
i took care to be ensconced in my alcove , apparently hard at work , at the time when she normally arrived .
it was not until the mid morning break that i saw her .
as luck would have it , the two of us were alone in the staff room .
alma came in as i was pouring myself a cup of tea .
my hand jerked involuntarily , and i spilled some of the hot liquid .
the resulting minor confusion dissipated the awkwardness of our initial greetings .
charles , how are you ?
she asked , a faint blush appearing on her cheeks .
i am quite well , alma , i said .
i trust you sang well at christ church yesterday morning .
her blush deepened slightly .
i think i did , despite not sleeping much the previous night , she said , looking me straight in the eyes .
at this point we both began to laugh , and i felt a great relief wash over me .
i had feared that she would have become angry at the events of that night , or worse , hurt or shamed .
but that did not seem to be the case .
are you free this evening ?
she asked me .
perfectly .
she was still looking at me intently , but i could not read her expression .
come over then .
two of our colleagues entered the room then , and we said no more .
alma opened her door to me that evening wearing a dress of golden brown velvet , a colour that accentuated the blondness of her hair .
around her neck was a pendant of amber mounted in silver .
i caught a faint scent of sandalwood .
for a moment i stood silent .
i had never thought alma could look so exotic , for one thing .
for another , i suddenly remembered the vision of her i had had during the boxing match .
alma , i said , you look like a dream my dream !
she grasped both my hands in hers and drew me toward her , saying , come in , charles !
are you going to stand on my doorstep all night and stare ?
but im glad you like this dress .
alma , i cant explain what came over me the other night .
i think it was in a way the result of what west and i were doing earlier that night talking and , well , drinking , and so on .
i left his place feeling exalted is the only word i can think of .
and i had been thinking about you all evening , so it seemed logical to come here .
to share my happiness with you it was a surprise .
not that the possibility hadnt occurred to me , but i hadnt thought of you as being well , so insistent .
she stood in front of me , her blue eyes glowing .
shell tell me she never wants to see me again , i thought .
ill have to quit my job and leave arkham my heart beat heavily and i found it difficult to breathe .
alma took my hands in hers .
only now do i see clearly , she said .
i know what i want .
you .
i want you to be my lover , charles .
i felt my face split open in a foolish smile .
i did not know what to say , but i pressed her hands .
this is going to be an adventure , she said , laughing .
i havent had much practice at it , and neither have you , i think .
a certain amount of discretion will be needed , but not as much as you would imagine .
im already known as one of those new women .
and this is arkham , after all .
she began to pace around the room , reminding me suddenly of west .
is arkham the greenwich village of new england ?
i asked , intercepting her and putting my arms around her .
worse , said alma .
the village might have its anarchists and freethinkers , but here in arkham we had witches , hundreds of years ago .
the first practitioners of free love in america , if you believe some of the stories .
but they paid for it .
i shivered , in spite of my self .
one always pays for ones choices , she replied , suddenly serious .
im ready to pay , charles .
are you ?
in public , i was recognized as that young librarian friend of almas .
we appeared together at public functions .
that winter we went ice skating on summers pond .
i joined her literary group .
finally grateful for those long ago dancing lessons i had shared with my cousin alice , i accompanied alma to tea dances at one of arkhams better hotels .
but our public togetherness , although enjoyable , was merely a faade for our private relationship , which was played out in almas little apartment .
we met there because my rooms were unwelcoming and my landlady vigilant and censorious .
hers , on the other hand , was indifferent , or perhaps merely discreet .
being a friend of the halsey family , she had a special status and shared some of almas free thinking ideas .
there was something about the inherent deceptiveness of this relationship innocent on the surface , darkly passionate beneath that was intensely erotic .
maintaining this duality became an end in itself .
did i love alma then ?
i thought i did , but i was young , and it is easy to mistake passion for love when one is young .
certainly , when it came to the test i failed her .
but that was much later .
chapter 7 early in january of 1912 , dean allan halsey held a reception at his home for the faculty of the medical school , its benefactors and its graduating class , as well as the university administration and selected other miskatonic faculty .
i fitted into none of these categories , but alma procured for me a special invitation .
its time you met my parents , she said .
and this is the ideal occasion .
there will be so many people milling around that youll be safely introduced before you know it .
but wont that give them the wrong idea ?
theyll start thinking im a prospective son in law .
occasionally i said things like this to tease her , knowing her aversion to marriage .
not they !
said alma , with a bitter little laugh .
mother has given up on me , and as for papa , hes been introducing me to hand picked students for years .
perfect little gentlemen , all of them , and dull as pencil stubs .
so that doesnt matter .
but you must meet them , charles .
weve been seen together enough that mothers friends are asking her about that young man i saw your alma with .
you know the sort of thing .
we have to establish a link between you and my parents , find some common ground they can be comfortable with .
once youve been safely slotted into a social niche it will be all right , but right now youre a loose end that papa will feel obliged to follow up .
i remembered wests suspicion that someone had been watching him on dean halseys orders , and agreed to attend .
on the appointed sunday afternoon , i put in my appearance at the halseys georgian mansion on saltonstall street .
i was shown into a large bright room full of people .
at one end was a table laden with food and drink .
at the other , among a knot of other guests , the senior halseys held court .
i knew both of them by sight , but took the opportunity to observe them before going nearer .
allan halsey was a tall man who obviously wished to appear distinguished .
everything about him proclaimed this , from the precision of his iron grey hair to the polish of his shoes .
unfortunately , the effect was a little diminished by a rather weak chin .
mrs. halsey was very much in the mould of the society woman .
alma bore a strong resemblance to her , in terms of facial features , at least .
involuntarily , i thought of our most recent meeting , two nights before , and felt myself beginning to smile .
there you are , charles !
said the object of my thoughts , startling me .
how long have you been standing there with that vacant look on your face ?
come along and ill introduce you to your hosts .
papa , this is my colleague charles milburn , she said .
charles , this is my father , dr. allan halsey .
i extended my hand .
im pleased to meet you , dr. halsey .
i wondered what this rather pompous man would do if he knew the true nature of the relationship between his daughter and her colleague and experienced a moment of irrational fear lest my thoughts communicate themselves to him by proximity .
then he was making the usual social noises and the moment was over .
alma directed me toward her mother .
up close , the resemblance between them was less pronounced , due primarily to the calculating expression in mrs. halseys eyes .
as she looked me up and down , i could see her processing my name through her personal social index .
milburn , you say ?
from boston ?
yes , mrs. halsey .
my father was george milburn .
my mother was helen devereaux , from new york city .
i gave her these leads to save time .
in her presence i felt only discomfort .
her husband had at least made a show of cordiality .
ah yes , i remember now , she said .
your poor mother .
it must have been most unpleasant for her .
i nearly said , his blood and brains were splattered all over his study .
yes , it certainly was unpleasant .
but i contented myself with noncommittal affirmative sounds .
having put me into the category of people who didnt matter , mrs. halsey was clearly finished with me .
gratefully , alma and i made our escape .
there , its done , she said .
charles , i apologize for my mother .
shes a hopeless snob .
im sorry i had to put you through that .
i reassured her that i had survived intact .
soon after , in keeping with our code of absolute discretion in public , she left me to greet some of the other guests .
looking around , i spied west by a distant window .
the low winter sun was behind him , turning his hair into a halo of gold .
i made my way over to him .
herbert , im glad youre here .
i feel like a fish out of water .
not only that but gutted and ready for the pan .
you barely survived your inspection by the formidable mrs. h. , he said with a sardonic smile .
i saw the way she raked you over , chewed you up and spat you out .
lucky for you the lovely alma was there to pick up the pieces .
congratulations , by the way .
congratulations for what ?
your what shall i say ?
friendship isnt the right word , exactly .
damn it , why must one always resort to french for these things ?
your affaire de coeur , charles .
your liaison .
i thought youve been looking especially content lately , but had supposed it was a side effect of helping to further the cause of science .
i can see now that was nave of me .
i dont know what youre talking about , i said .
charles , im no romantic , but im not unobservant .
it stands out all over the two of you .
its the way you so self consciously resist getting too close to one another .
and the way she protected you from that gorgon of a mother was touching in the extreme .
with the light behind him i could not make out his expression .
his tone of voice was the same ironically bantering one with which he had greeted me .
well , yes , all right , herbert .
alma and i are more than friends .
i hope youll be discreet , though .
perfectly .
my only concern is that you dont suddenly decide to abandon our cause .
he moved over to my other side , so that the light fell slantingly on his face .
but its reflection from his spectacles hid his eyes , and i still could not read his expression .
i reassured him that he could count on my assistance , as always .
west excused himself , having noticed someone trying to attract his attention from the other side of the room .
cut adrift , i began to feel the all too familiar sense of being an invisible visitor in a crowd of people enjoying themselves .
i noticed a white coated waiter presiding over a large punch bowl and decided to fortify myself .
after a while , i began almost to enjoy my invisibility .
sipping punch , i wandered among the guests , overhearing snatches of conversation .
dont you trust him !
hes in the deans back pocket .
i saw her myself , i tell you !
naked as the day she was born !
its the chloride , not the sulphide .
makes a big difference .
itll kill more than half of them , you can be sure .
suddenly , i heard someone speaking to me , and returned to earth with a small jolt .
dr. armitage was with a group of serious looking men , veterans of many receptions , to judge by the dexterity with which they manipulated drinks and hors doeuvres , all the while talking and nodding portentously .
milburn , its good to see you here !
dr. armitage said , as i approached .
ive always thought that my librarians should get out more in the university .
especially you cataloguers .
i daresay it was that young fellow got you an invitation the one that asked to see the necronomicon a year or so back .
i saw you talking with him just now .
east , is that the name ?
i had not realized that dr. armitage could be so chatty .
not exactly , i said .
its west herbert west .
i felt a sudden surge of goodwill toward my director , so glad was i to see a familiar face .
actually , i continued , it was miss halsey that arranged for my invitation .
of course !
i should have realized .
miss halsey.. mm hmm .
he looked toward the dean and mrs. halsey , and began to say something , but thought better of it .
shes a cataloguer too , of course , he said , finishing with a sip of his drink .
he turned abruptly to the man beside him , a bald headed , alert looking fellow who appeared to have been listening to our conversation .
dr. hobson , dr. armitage said , i would like you to meet one of my librarians .
this is mr. charles milburn , of the cataloguing department .
dr. hobson is in the surgical department at the medical school .
hobson clamped my hand in a hot paw that seemed entirely the wrong sort of equipment for a surgeon and looked at me hard , as though he suspected me of deception before i had even spoken .
so youre a cataloguer , are you ?
without waiting for a reply , he rushed on .
any educated person should be able to put a few books in order and keep them that way .
i couldnt believe it when armitage told me theres a whole department of you librarians in his shop , just to catalogue the books .
maybe thats why i can never find anything in that place of yours .
too many cooks , eh ?
do you suppose thats it ?
he gestured rhetorically with a miniature sausage on a stick .
my feeling of warm conviviality drained away , quickly and completely .
i was beginning to wish i had left while i was still invisible .
now there was no escape .
hobson wasnt making social small talk .
he wanted an answer .
dr. hobson , i began , theres quite a difference between a departmental reading room and the university library .
the more books you have , the more diverse their subjects , the more expertise it takes to organize them .
but im not sure i could help you , in any case .
i know next to nothing about medicine .
my field is classics .
classics !
hmph !
well , maybe thats different , but i doubt it .
so what are you doing here , with all of us medical men ?
i have a friend in the medical school , i said .
i didnt want to bring up almas name .
the last thing she needed was for hobson to be reminded that she catalogued in the area of medicine .
oh , and who might that be ?
hobson demolished the miniature sausage in a single bite .
mr. herbert west , i said , wondering if i was starting something i would regret .
oh ho !
the dangerous mr. west !
i should have guessed .
why do you say that ?
i asked .
dangerous in what way ?
hobson laughed , a harsh sound like a dog barking .
hes a renegade , thats what !
one of those smart young whippersnappers who cant resist showing off .
those kind are always trouble .
i know because i was one myself .
so youre a friend of his , are you ?
well , if youre a good friend , youll advise him to play by the rules .
but i would expect that a.. questioning attitude would be welcome in an educational institution such as the medical school .
as long as its an informed one , that is .
wouldnt you rather have students who engaged in debate , rather than supine receptacles for orthodoxy ?
i noticed that my glass was empty once again and wondered if there was any punch left and whether anyone would notice my fourth trip to the punch bowl .
hobson moved closer to me and made a gesture that looked vaguely threatening .
supine receptacles ?
you cant say that about anyone at the school , young man .
but your friend west , well , hes sure he knows better than anyone .
and he doesnt stop at debate .
do you know that in his first year he actually wanted to do experiments with corpses ?
thought he could bring them back to life or some such nonsense .
well , i have to credit dr. halsey with more patience than i would have had .
he didnt expel west , although he could have .
but i have to admit , hes got the technique .
good hands hes lucky that way .
but he has to cultivate the right attitude .
perhaps youre right , dr. hobson .
i wondered what he would do if i said what i was thinking , which was , oh , hes got technique , all right .
ive watched him use it many times , to do things you couldnt imagine .
suddenly , i knew i had to get away from him .
i fancied that west was watching me from somewhere in the room , could almost feel his eyes boring into the back of my head .
and i was ravenously hungry .
excuse me , please , i just remembered another engagement .
i hoped i sounded convincing .
it was good to meet you .
tell your fellow librarians to stop making everything so complicated !
logic , its all logic !
he said , turning away .
i resolved at all costs to avoid a second encounter with him .
proceeding toward the buffet table , i had to change my plans when i spotted peter runcible hovering over the savoury delicacies .
he was not someone i would choose to seek out at a social occasion or any other occasion , for that matter .
i began to feel that i was surrounded by enemies the senior halseys , dr. hobson , runcible .
even dr. armitage couldnt be trusted not to deliver me into another uncomfortable situation .
alma was some distance away , talking with a couple of women and a professorial looking man .
i tried to catch her eye , but failed , which was probably just as well , because i was by now more than a little tipsy .
it was time for me to leave .
i looked around for the door , wondering if the halseys would notice or care if i departed without formal farewells and expressions of gratitude .
someone approached me from behind .
i expected it to be west , ready to interrogate me about my conversation with hobson , but i was surprised to see prof. quarrington .
his diminutive , bobbing form reminded me of a bird or a small rodent .
good day to you , charles milburn !
he said .
im glad to see you here , yes i am .
doing your job , just as a good friend should .
my commendation to you , young man .
thank you , prof. quarrington , i said .
but im not certain just what you mean when you say im doing my job .
he did not speak but grasped my sleeve and pulled me around to face in the opposite direction .
chuckling , he nodded toward a corner of the room , where west was talking to a man i did not recognize .
keeping watch , thats your job .
look at him , over there , showing off , proving to everyone what a scientist he is !
he has great gifts , that young fellow , and the pity is that he knows it too , at least about some of them .
someone has to make sure he doesnt go up in flames before his time , and it just happens that youre that someone .
i knew it , and here you are , which proves i was right .
youre referring to herbert west ?
you believe i should.. watch over him ?
yes , of course !
hes an absolute phenomenon , more than anyone guesses , except me .
he chuckled again .
as for why , well , think back !
the necronomicon !
both of you read it , i know that .
you cant turn back the pages .
why does it matter that we both read the necronomicon ?
i asked .
because its a catalyst , thats why !
dont you know what a catalyst is ?
ask him he knows .
another nod toward west .
you just have to take what comes , and keep faith .
dont worry , im on your side !
he gave my arm a weak slap and moved away , surprisingly fast for one with his peculiar gait , and i lost sight of him in the crowd .
i decided again that it was time to leave , propriety be damned .
i scanned the room once more , and saw west not far away .
he saw me at the same moment and came over .
fleeing the field already , charles ?
i must say , you did rather have to run the gauntlet , didnt you ?
the formidable mrs. h. , then hobson , then quarrington .
well , if you want an accomplice , im available .
i hesitated .
i had an idea that what he really wanted was to question me about what i might have said to hobson .
what had i said to him about west ?
my memory was already growing fuzzy on this point .
i looked around for alma , but could no longer see her .
escape was paramount .
all right , herbert , i said .
lets go .
after a flurry of brief encounters with some of wests professors and fellow students , he and i left the halsey residence together .
ive had a bellyful of this posturing , he said .
i would suggest a brain clearing session , except that my brain is still clear from the last one .
but come along to my place , and we can kill the afternoon in some agreeable way .
i think it needs killing .
i go on duty at the hospital at eight , so that gives us several hours .
i have some new gramophone records .
and i can come up with a meal of some sort .
or did you partake of the bounty we are leaving ?
actually , i didnt eat a thing , i reassured him .
and yes , i am rather hungry .
i saw you talking with hobson , west observed as we reached the sidewalk .
he seemed excited .
what was he going on about , anyway ?
the library , i replied .
he claims he cant find anything there , and thinks we librarians should use logic .
oh , and he says you have good hands .
he gave me an amused look .
good hands , eh ?
that would be a supreme compliment , coming from that old ogre , if he werent the most ham fisted of a bad lot .
hobson wont admit it , of course , but hes learned a thing or two from me .
what did quarrington want ?
im not sure what he wanted .
hes certainly a character , isnt he ?
a veritable paragon of idiosyncrasy , said west , who seemed to be in an extraordinarily good mood , for some reason .
he didnt say or ask you anything about me , did he ?
you ?
no , not at all .
why should he ?
he really is full of himself , i thought .
if he was disappointed , he didnt show it .
oh , no reason , he said .
its just that with quarrington , you never know what might come out .
whats a catalyst , herbert ?
i asked .
he frowned , then looked amused .
why on earth would you need to know that ?
no reason , i just heard someone back there use that word .
it sounded like a scientific discussion , so i thought you might know .
a catalyst is an agent that precipitates a reaction , but without taking part in it .
it makes something happen , but itself remains unchanged .
i thought about this for a while .
thank you , i said .
its still greek to me though , or rather , if it were greek , which i suspect it is , i would understand it , better than chemistry , anyway .
he laughed .
i do believe youre tipsy , my friend .
on the way to wests rooms , it occurred to me that i knew next to nothing about my friends dealings with women .
newly alive to the delights of love as i was , i wanted others to experience them too .
but he had never spoken of any romantic connection , except that vague reference to an italian lady who had taught him how to cook .
and yet he was exactly the sort of young man who would be considered a good catch intelligent , articulate , wealthy and good looking .
i pondered this matter during our meal , which consisted of a rather good soup west called minestrone , and cold roast beef .
as we were washing up the dishes , a mischievous impulse made me say , youll be a blessing for some emancipated woman , herbert , when you get married .
in between patients you can cook supper for her when she comes home from her work .
he gave me a strange look .
i have no plans to marry , he said .
my brothers are entirely capable of carrying on the family name .
but theres more to it than that , i said .
what about companionship , and love ?
sentimental nonsense !
he had regained his usual ironic manner .
i would rather put my energy into my scientific work .
all right , but what about the physiological side of things ?
i know how keen you are on physical fitness and health .
isnt it true that a man has certain needs that must be fulfilled if ill health is to be avoided ?
he busied himself in the pantry , evidently finding a pressing need to reorganize its contents .
dont you concern yourself about my health , charles , he said indistinctly from its depths .
i know more about physiology and anatomy and all that stuff than you ever will , and i assure you im perfectly healthy .
now , look what i found .
he emerged triumphant , holding a bottle .
a survivor from my latest brain clearing .
not enough to do any damage , but it will nicely accompany that new gramophone record by caruso , dont you think ?
find some glasses .
but youre going on duty in a couple of hours !
no matter , charles .
moderation is my watchword .
glasses .
while the great italian sang arias by verdi and puccini , we sipped scotch and west spoke of his researches .
he was growing impatient to make some progress , but had no control over the availability of suitable research material .
ah well , winter is a good time for deaths .
corpses resulting from death by exposure might be especially suitable for our purposes .
so we should keep our hopes up .
i thought as i raised my glass to this sentiment that , given his peculiar preoccupations , it was perhaps just as well that west was not romantically inclined .
not many nice young ladies would be eager to socialize with this elegant fellow if they knew what he did in his free time .
but then i remembered that on a few occasions he had disappeared for several days , saying that he was going to boston on business .
perhaps the business involved female companionship he did not wish to talk about .
in any case , the matter was , for the time being , closed .
soon after this , we had news of the wild man that even west could not ignore .
after a week of extreme cold , the absence of smoke from a farmhouse five miles from arkham attracted the attention of neighbours .
on investigating they found a scene of horror the farmer lying dead in a pool of blood in the upstairs hallway of the house , his wife in a similar condition on their bed .
a mattock , doubtless the very one stolen months before from summers farm , lay on the floor .
and in a corner of the room , cowering as though trying to push himself through the walls , was a hairy , grotesque creature with blood in his hair and beard and splashed liberally on the ragged clothing he wore .
he was making inarticulate animal sounds and clutching something to his chest .
it was an infant , evidently the child of the dead farmer and his wife .
it too was dead , with bite marks on its neck and face .
one of the ears was chewed and torn .
sickened , the neighbours left two of their number to make sure the creature did not escape .
the others returned as quickly as possible with reinforcements , including members of the arkham police force .
the man in the corner did not try to run away , but went with his captors willingly .
the only time he showed any resistance at all was when they took the childs corpse away .
then he seemed inclined to grow savage once more , but was quickly subdued .
questioning was useless , for he never spoke .
if the grunts and ululations he emitted had any meanings , they remained known to him alone .
he was declared insane and incarcerated in sefton asylum .
a week later , i had an unexpected visit from west .
he looked pale and wretched .
if it had been anyone else , i would have thought him unwell , but west was never sick .
i prepared to broach once more the subject of john hocks and the murders .
it had been a few weeks since we had done an experiment , and i was determined to clear things up between us before i would participate in another .
i need not have bothered .
it was hocks after all , he said , and i understood that his sickly appearance must have been the result of having to admit that he had been wrong .
how do you know that ?
i asked , more gently than the circumstances warranted .
one of my professors consults to sefton occasionally .
he was there when they brought in the so called wild man , and for some reason decided that it would be instructive for us students to see him .
so we made a little field trip to the ward for hopeless cases .
each of us took a turn at peering through the little window in the door of his cell .
by that time they had cleaned him up and shaved off the beard , so i recognized him .
it was hocks , all right .
he stopped speaking and sat staring at the floor , chin propped on hands , elbows on knees .
i digested this information for a few moments .
did anyone else recognize him ?
west shook his head .
no , fortunately for us .
when the police arrested him at that farmhouse , i suppose he was unrecognizable .
no one else made the connection between the terrible wild man and the late john hocks , itinerant labourer .
with luck hell never regain the power of speech .
you pray , dont you charles ?
so pray that hocks remains mute .
and that the good people at sefton dont let him escape .
yes , i suppose that would be he continued as if i had not spoken .
he stared right at me .
west looked more unsettled than i had ever seen him .
charles , he knew me .
he got up and left without another word .
it was surprising how quickly the matter of hocks faded from our minds once he was incarcerated .
west resumed his experiments , and i continued to assist him .
hocks could do no further harm , i reasoned , and by remaining in wests confidence i could perhaps intervene to prevent another horror .
the rest of 1912 passed in a happy blur , largely due to my liaison with alma , with its exciting mixture of openness and secrecy .
there were long periods when i saw little of west .
he was entering the final stretch of his medical education , and what with upper level classes at the medical school and interning at st. marys had little time to spare .
i think they try to eliminate the weakest of us by sheer volume of work , he said once , laughing .
fortunately i am equal to it , but only just .
indeed , he looked thinner and a little worn .
during this time , wests attitude toward allan halsey changed from a good humoured contempt to something approaching hatred .
his references to the man became quite vitriolic .
when i asked him as to the reason for this he replied only that the deans unprogressive attitude toward research was increasingly galling to him , as his own knowledge of medicine increased .
he could see further possibilities for scientific progress if sufficient boldness were employed .
its not just me he has thwarted , he said .
there are one or two fellows in the school with great original ideas they havent been able to test , all because halsey wont let them use the resources here at miskatonic .
you may not realize it , charles , but this college has first class facilities for medical research , and theyre being wasted because of this nincompoop halsey and his antediluvian ideas .
i had never allowed myself to use my relationship with alma for wests sake , but i did so now .
discreetly , i inquired as to whether she was aware of any increase in the antipathy that had always existed between her father and his most troublesome student .
you know i dont usually discuss such things with papa , she said , frowning a little .
but now that you mention it , i overheard him tell one of the other professors recently that if west manages to graduate before i find it necessary to discipline him again it will be a miracle .
then he said that his hands are tied by hiram west .
do you have any idea what he could have meant by that ?
i said i did not , but i had suspicions , which i voiced the next time i saw west .
so father is putting pressure on halsey , he said .
i wasnt aware of that , but im not surprised .
you know hes been making generous donations to miskatonic since last year .
being what he is , its natural that he would take a proprietary attitude .
i suppose halsey thinks ive been taking advantage of the situation .
well , i suppose i have , but in ignorance .
he fell silent , looking thoughtful .
i wondered if west was engaged in unorthodox activities besides those of which i was aware .
when i ventured to ask him , he was cagey .
well , it depends on what you would consider unorthodox .
i do use my lab for other things besides the revivifications , you know .
and halsey thinks anything is unorthodox if he wouldnt do it himself .
which includes just about anything worth doing .
several weeks later , i was surprised to be called into peter runcibles office , and even more surprised to see dean allan halsey there .
despite my alarm , i managed to retain a calm exterior .
mr. milburn , i understand youre acquainted with dean halsey , said runcible .
he has asked me to allow him to use my office this afternoon so that he may confer with you .
he made effusive farewells to halsey and left , giving me a look of mingled amusement and curiosity .
if he had not closed the door , i would have presumed to do it myself , remembering the acoustical quirk that allowed listeners in the main office to hear what was being said in this one .
halsey looked at me in silence for a moment without speaking .
his rather muddy grey eyes were surrounded by wrinkles .
i thought he looked older and wearier than the man i had been introduced to several months before .
mr. milburn , he began , i came here to talk to you , instead of summoning you to my office , because i wish to approach a delicate matter with the utmost discretion .
i said nothing .
after a moment he continued , i believe you are acquainted with mr. herbert west , a student at the medical school .
i know mr. west , yes , i replied , wondering where this was leading .
you may be aware , then , that he is in a rather equivocal position at the school .
no indeed .
my impression is that he is nearing the completion of his studies and hopes to qualify as a physician next year .
quite so , mr. milburn .
but only if we at the school are satisfied that he does not violate the standards of conduct we demand of our students .
im not sure i understand you , dr. halsey .
let me put it plainly .
herbert west is suspected of unorthodox , indeed , illegal activities in connection with some extracurricular research he has taken on .
naturally , this would prejudice his chances of qualifying as a licensed physician .
i was not sure what response he expected , so i made none , merely looked attentive and a little puzzled .
strangely , i was not nervous .
after a moment , he went on .
what we need is proof of wests involvement in these activities .
at present we have only suspicions .
im sorry , dr. halsey , i said .
i do not believe i can help you in any way .
as you know , i am a cataloguer here at the library .
my field is classics .
i am acquainted with mr. west , but have no other connection to the medical school .
he smiled .
mrs. halsey recently reminded me of your somewhat unfortunate family circumstances , mr. milburn .
i seem to recall that your father left very little after his sad demise .
thats my private business , sir .
i dont see what it has to do with this delicate matter of yours .
now , now , mr. milburn .
this is no time to pretend ignorance .
i dont imagine that miskatonic pays its junior librarians a very princely salary , does it ?
i believe you may be in a position to furnish me with information , in which case i think you would see a small but significant increase in your earnings .
what do you say ?
i felt exactly as though i had been wrapped in warm dreamy sleep and was naked and shivering with cold water dripping from me .
it took me a while to find my voice .
dr. halsey , i said , getting to my feet .
i will not dignify your suggestion with a reply .
i consider it an insult .
i think this interview is at an end .
not so fast , young man , he said .
he was grinning unpleasantly .
youre not lily white yourself , you know .
i stopped and waited for him to continue .
i could feel my entire body shake with each heartbeat , and wondered if he could see that .
on a certain night last october , you were observed in attendance at an event which included illegal fighting and gambling .
do you deny this ?
yes , i do deny it .
i thought quickly .
there had been students from miskatonic at the prizefight , and even some faculty members .
if halsey was trying to use information from such sources against me , he was grasping at straws .
but the knowledge that someone had bothered to notice and report my presence was troubling .
it seemed that halsey was aware of how ineffectual his half threat was , for he did not pursue it .
very well , mr. milburn , he said , standing up .
but should you reconsider , my offer stands .
i can be reached at the medical school .
and let me offer you two pieces of advice as well .
first , stay away from herbert west .
hes not a good companion for a young fellow who has a long way to go if he wants to rebuild his standing in the world .
and second he paused in the doorway , giving me a baleful look , stay away from my daughter .
i felt an eruption of rage .
i wanted to hit him , to deliver to that self satisfied countenance just one punch of the sort that buck robinson had landed on kid obrien .
i relished the crunch of cartilage , the spurt of blood .
but of course i did nothing of the kind .
instead , i said , dr. halsey , i would like to make two things clear to you .
first , herbert west is my friend .
second , your daughter alma is also my friend and colleague , and is of an age when she no longer needs your permission to choose her associates .
now i will bid you good day .
i returned to my alcove on legs that had turned to rubber .
my limp had worsened and i was glad i had no farther to go before i collapsed in my chair .
i did not know what i would do if halsey followed me , but i heard the outer door of the office slam , so assumed he had gone .
i left a note in wests mailbox on my way home , asking him to come see me about an urgent matter .
several hours later he entered my door , bringing with him a wave of rain washed air .
he had just come from the hospital and looked as tired as i had ever seen him .
but the weariness fell away as i began my story .
when i came to the part about the opportunity i had been given to better myself at his expense , he jumped up and exclaimed , the devil !
he tried to bribe you !
this is serious , charles .
hes never been this methodical before .
go on .
he paced around the little room while i continued my narrative .
when i had finished he said , this has gone too far , by god !
until now ive treated halsey like an obstacle to be circumvented .
but this calls for something more .
he fell silent , obviously deep in thought .
why do you suppose hes doing this ?
after all , youll be finished at the school in less than a year .
then you can do whatever research you like .
so why should he persecute you like this ?
its exactly because im nearly finished that hes redoubling his efforts , said west .
he knows its his last chance to blacken my reputation .
but why ?
why should he want to blacken you ?
allan halsey is revered as the students friend and mentor , a real father figure .
well , hes that only for the students who toady to him and do everything his way .
for them he opens the laboratories , hands out the money , makes the introductions .
but should anyone suggest that there might be another road that should be tried , one that may or may not prove to be a dead end , he tells that person not to waste his time , but to return to the well traveled halsey highway .
and yet it is exactly on those side paths that real scientific progress is to be made .
i had heard this , or variants of it , many times before .
but it wasnt the answer to my question .
i know that , herbert , but what is it that he has against you specifically ?
youve said that there are others in your class who want to do unconventional research , but were discouraged .
does halsey go after them like this ?
no he doesnt .
as to why he singles me out , i think there are a number of reasons .
one is that he doesnt approve of the parvenu son of an undertaker presuming to join the ranks of the medical elite .
and the fact that my father has become a benefactor of miskatonic galls him .
another thing is that i got started on my revivification work early in my first year .
halsey has this notion that first year students should speak only when spoken to and think only what they are told to think .
anyone who dares to suggest something anything at all is branded a renegade .
so when i started with the animals practically the minute i got into the lab he nearly went apoplectic .
luckily for me a couple of the less fossilized professors spoke up for me hes just a boy , theres lots of time to shape him into the correct mould , etc. , etc .
ad nauseam .
well , i didnt agree with them , but at least it got me a reprieve .
anyway , ever since then halsey has had it in for me personally , and now hes realized that this is his last chance to squeeze me .
again he fell silent .
some moments later he said , i think i have it .
for the next few months well have to avoid experiments , unless were lucky enough to get a perfect specimen .
the dubious ones arent worth the risk .
and ill be a model of discretion , toadying to halsey every chance i get .
in the long run it will be worth the lost research time .
also seeing the old bastards disappointment at the failure of his plot .
but thats not enough what do you mean ?
well , to put it bluntly , i want revenge .
when the dean of the medical school stoops to such sleazy measures to pursue a personal vendetta against one of his own students , avoidance is not enough .
i have to give him something to remember me by .
he took several more turns around my room , occasionally muttering things like , no , thats no good too crude , for one thing , and , that would take too long .
at one point he threw out an observation , every man has a secret or two .
even you , charles .
so dont imagine halsey is exempt .
its just a matter of a moment later , his eyes lit up .
thats it , of course !
and he owes me one , i think .
absolutely !
look , charles , i must go now .
dont worry , i dont think hell trouble you again .
not as long as i keep my nose clean , and for the next three months itll be the cleanest nose in arkham !
i heard him laughing as he ran down the stairs .
in the next several months , west and i did only one experiment .
the subject was the victim of a factory accident .
his arm had been cut off by a piece of machinery and he had died of blood loss .
we cant pass this one up , said west .
you see , the only thing wrong with him is blood loss .
and the missing limb , of course .
but the essential mechanism is intact .
the only thing ill have to do is tie off the blood vessels to the arm before we run in the fluid .
we were more than ordinarily cautious , reconnoitering the situation scrupulously before our every move .
we blocked any cracks through which light could leak out of the laboratory with fanatical care .
we not only fastened restraints on the corpse , but one of my jobs was to stand by with a carefully fashioned gag , in case of untoward vocalizations .
we thought our chances of escaping undetected were better than average , since dean halsey was out of town that week .
the subject , albert whidbey , was one of our more promising cases .
under the influence of wests revivifying fluid , he readily showed signs of life .
even though i had seen the phenomenon several times before , i felt once again that jolt of the miraculous at the fact of life coming from death under the hands of my friend .
i was able nearly to have a conversation with whidbey , although it was rather like trying to hold an intelligent dialogue in shouts with someone a hundred yards away .
much was lost in some cognitive gulf that lay between him and me .
in response to my questions and promptings , he spoke of a light , of flying , of heavenly music .
he spoke of seeing his mother and father , so lovely , they looked , all young and happy .
then his face creased and he began to cry .
shortly after this began the drifting away that we had seen several times before .
although the vital signs had been strong and stable , an inexorable weakening began , which continued despite all of wests efforts .
he had developed a substance that he had hoped would counteract this fading , but it proved utterly ineffectual in this case .
i hoped whidbey had managed to find his way back to the place of light and music , but the look of terror that came over his face in his last seconds made me shiver .
after we had returned the body to the morgue and cleared away the evidence of the experiment , west said , i wish i knew what causes that fading away .
it almost seems willed , but that cant be still thinking about whidbeys words , i said , perhaps they want to go back to whatever lies beyond .
maybe once someone has disconnected from the world he doesnt want to come back .
dont you think that suggests theres something besides the physical mechanism ?
you seem to be able to re start that , but without the participation of the persons so the will , i mean , life simply can not be sustained .
maybe you need to find a subject with more force of will .
west gave me a look of mingled annoyance and amusement .
certainly something interferes with the physical mechanism , but ill bet you anything its a physical something .
the interesting thing is that it manifests the same way , regardless of the cause of the first death .
he sighed .
its too bad we have to be so damned careful these days .
id like to gather a lot more data on this phenomenon .
oh well , just a few more months .
you dont intend to stay in arkham after graduation , surely ?
my question sounded casual , but i was certain that he would be keen to get away from the place where his talents were undervalued .
with his abilities , the field would be open to him , whatever the blots on his academic record .
i tried not to think of how empty arkham would be without him .
why not ?
he seemed puzzled at my question .
for one thing , it would be a good place to set up a practice , for an energetic fellow like me , anyway .
bolton is growing fast and will supply no end of patients .
foreigners , of course , but so what ?
a body is a body .
from what ive seen , theyre all pretty much the same inside .
miskatonics facilities are superb , and old halsey cant last forever .
so it will do for a start .
herbert west graduated from miskatonic universitys medical school in the spring of 1913 .
the commencement ceremonies were held at the beginning of june .
knowing wests dislike of what he called posturing , i was surprised to receive an invitation to attend the function as his guest .
i was even more surprised that he had invited alma as well , and furthermore , that she had accepted .
on a perfect june day , rare in misty , muggy arkham , alma and i found ourselves in miskatonics convocation hall .
alma was beautiful in a white dress of some filmy material , discreetly ruffled , with a neckline that fell just below her collarbones .
with this she wore a pair of shoes of white kid leather .
i can still visualize those shoes , with their squarish toes , ankle straps and louis heels .
at the sight of them , and of almas neatly turned ankles , encased in white silk stockings , i felt a wave of pure lust wash over me .
if it had been anyone but west who was graduating that day i would have murmured to her that we must go , immediately , now .
i would have taken her arm and marched her out of the hall and to my rooms .
instead , i looked studiously at the floor and told myself that anticipation would sweeten the fruits later on .
the dignitaries of the medical school , in full academic regalia , had assembled on the stage .
also present were a number of ladies , chief among whom was almas mother , splendidly hatted and gowned .
her imperious glance raked over the lesser females around her , as if she was on the lookout for an excuse to banish a non conformer from the ranks of the elect .
in the audience i saw hiram west with his two older sons and the usual entourage .
at the back of the hall i caught a glimpse of professor quarrington .
the university marching band struck up one of elgars pomp and circumstance marches , and the graduates filed in to take their places in the front rows .
several speeches followed , full of sonorous phrases and venerable platitudes .
i listened only to the rise and fall of the speakers voices , amusing myself with the notion that it was rather like following the bass line in a piece of baroque music .
i looked at almas shoes , and at the firm line of her jaw , and the sweet curve of her neck and the way the little tendrils of flaxen hair had come loose from the knot at the back of her head .
my thoughts were very pleasant , and later i was glad to have had this drowsy interlude , because shortly afterward , all hell broke loose .
the graduates were called in alphabetical order , so it was some time before wests name came up .
i sat watching the cranes and the edgars and the fillmores and the jacksons go up to the stage to receive their diplomas from the dean .
west had not spoken to me again of his plan for revenge on dean halsey , but i knew him well enough by now not to suppose that he had abandoned it .
finally , i heard the name herbert francis west .
i had not known what his middle name was , and while i was pondering this detail , west stepped lightly onto the stage and walked toward the dean .
his academic gown fitted him as though it had been custom made , which it probably was .
the black formal drapery , and even the ridiculous mortar board suited his fair colouring to perfection .
standing before halsey and the other dignitaries , he put me in mind of some prince of renaissance italy , a medici or a borgia .
he took the diploma from halsey with a courtly bow which was entirely proper , if a little flamboyant .
but here the familiar ritual was broken , for instead of grasping the deans hand briefly in his own and departing , west handed something to halsey .
it was a flat rectangular object , nearly a foot square .
i wondered how west had managed to conceal it so well throughout the proceedings .
was it perhaps a peace offering of some sort ?
that seemed unlikely .
now he was saying something to the dean , who was beginning to look flustered .
west wore a smile as angelic as i had ever seen on his face , and was utterly at ease despite the slight disturbance he had created , that was even now escalating into something else .
for as dean allan halsey looked at whatever it was that west had given him , his face turned deathly pale and seemed to crumble .
one hand clutched at his chest .
he looked wildly around , as though for help which did not come .
mrs. halsey , pushing aside a gaggle of ladies , rushed to her husbands side .
moments later she let out a piercing cry and fainted .
two other ladies promptly followed suit .
several professors crowded around to see the cause of the distress .
a murmur broke out among them as the object was passed from hand to hand .
for a full minute , utter pandemonium reigned on the stage .
finally , one or two of the professors galvanized the others into action .
mrs. halsey and the other prostrate ladies were carried off the stage , presumably to be revived with smelling salts .
someone took the dean over to a chair and gave him a glass of water .
west , in the meantime , had left the stage and the hall .
no one had thought to stop him .
i must go to papa , said alma , looking thoroughly upset .
i took her arm and helped her to the stage .
she bent over her father and asked him if he was all right .
i could hear the man who had given him the water reassuring her .
he sounded like a practicing physician .
having nothing to do for a moment , i looked around the stage where the dignified order of academic ritual had so utterly given way to chaos .
i saw something lying on the lectern , among the few diplomas which had not yet been awarded .
surely this was the cause of all the distress , the thing that west had given to halsey ?
i went over , but had only a fleeting glimpse of the object before some professor picked it up with a glare at me and thrust it under his gown .
that glimpse was enough , however .
it was a large photograph , tastefully framed , showing , in unmistakable detail , dean allan halsey , in evening dress which was seriously askew , with a laurel wreath tilted rakishly over one eye .
he balanced on his knee a buxom young woman whose lacy costume left very little to the imagination .
she held a glass in her hand , and he seemed to be getting ready to let her take a puff on the fat cigar he held in his the hand that was not busy fondling one of her breasts .
alma had finished commiserating with her father .
halsey appeared a little healthier , but not much .
i heard some muttering among the professors to the effect that the show had to go on .
finally , the dean , still in near shock , was led away .
i escorted alma off the stage , and professor hobson called out the name john george willson .
did you find out what happened to him ?
alma whispered to me .
it was something west gave him .
did you see it ?
no , i lied .
someone picked it up before i could see .
ill try to find out later .
i was torn between my responsibility to alma and my intense curiosity as to how west had managed to get that photograph .
to my relief , alma had regained her normal decisive manner .
im going straight to the parents house , she said .
they were taking them both there .
no , it would be better if you didnt come .
but come to my place tonight .
she hurried away .
i made directly for wests rooms .
his academic regalia had been flung onto the back of an armchair , and he was stretched out on the sofa , laughing .
it worked like magic !
he cried .
oh charles , it was priceless !
the look on that smug old bastards face !
it was one of the best moments of my life .
i threw away my nagging scruples and joined in his laughter .
when it had subsided a little , i asked , herbert , how on earth , where on earth did you get that photograph ?
well , he began , clearly relishing the revelation .
i wanted to do something that would deflate the pompous old windbag , something public , so the graduation ceremony suggested itself .
when i remembered that i would be wearing academic dress , i realized i could smuggle something fairly large onto the stage undetected .
really , its a wonder there arent more knifings or shootings among academics , given the grudges one finds .
at first i thought of something in the anatomical line , an embalmed body part of some sort .
but that wouldnt have redounded well on me , since what i wanted was to make him look bad but leave myself untouched .
then i remembered a rumour i had heard , that halsey has a roving eye , and enjoys spirited entertainment on occasion .
now , theres a club in boston , the gai paree club , its called .
it caters to an exclusive clientele businessmen , mostly .
and professors too , it seems .
he began to laugh again .
but how did you get the photograph ?
did you go to this club ?
not i , he said .
not my scene at all .
but , well , one of my brothers owns the place .
ive always thought it a vulgar enterprise , but in this case it was certainly useful .
jeremy owed me a favour dont ask why because i wont tell you .
i asked him to find out if halsey was one of his customers .
it couldnt have been easier .
you see what i meant when i said that every man has his secrets .
let this be a lesson to you , young fellow , he said , wagging a finger at me .
celibacy may be dull , but it has its uses .
but now its time for a celebratory libation .
even as i raised my glass to my lips , i remembered alma and began to feel uneasy .
she certainly had nothing to celebrate .
you really shouldnt have invited alma , i said .
i know how you feel about dean halsey , but she had nothing to do with that bribe and it upset her to see her father like that .
west looked a little uncomfortable .
i have to admit i was thinking more of the effect on him of knowing she was there than the reverse .
and anyway , she has you to administer comfort and commiseration .
yes she does , and i would suggest you keep that in mind .
in fact , i really ought to be going now .
west raised his glass mockingly .
far be it from me to deny comfort to a lady in distress .
but before i left , i could not resist asking a final question .
what did you say to halsey when you handed him that thing ?
i merely commented on how refreshing it was to find that he , too , was doing some extracurricular research of an unorthodox sort , except that his was in the field of anatomy .
the commencement incident , as it came to be called , had far reaching consequences for many that were on the platform that day , but not for herbert west .
he had hit upon exactly the right scheme .
the target of his revenge had been struck hard , in public , but nothing much could be brought home to him .
diploma in hand , he had vanished , unscathed .
feeble attempts were made by the administration to hush up the scandal , but enough people had seen the damning photograph that it was soon general knowledge that the dean of medicine had been caught in flagrante delicto .
it was not so much that he had been disporting himself in a house of ill repute albeit a high class one , but that his misdemeanour had been displayed to the community .
the academic world is prepared to wink at the peccadilloes of its leaders , but not when they are thrust under its collective nose in such an unmistakable way .
allan halsey took an extended leave of absence from his duties , and eventually retired early from the post he had held for twenty years .
mrs. halsey suffered a long period of ill health , during which her usually full program of social affairs was abandoned , much to the relief of matrons lower on the arkham pecking order , over whom she had ruled with a rod of iron .
in the present day a divorce would have ensued , but these were uncommon in 1913 .
the halseys retreated from the public eye to deal with their troubles .
alma took it harder than i ever would have imagined .
for all her coolness and flippant remarks about both her parents , her ties to them and to the social order of arkham , were deep .
the worst part of the situation for her was that there seemed to be no one who was clearly the wronged party .
as objectively as i could , i explained that her father had pursued a course of action against west that was unethical at best .
i agreed that wests means of taking revenge were unsportsmanlike and demonstrated a lack of maturity on his part but , the fact remained that her father had put himself into the compromising situation shown in the photograph .
she was fair minded enough to acknowledge this , but that did not diminish her resentment toward west .
you must tell me , charles , did you have anything to do with this business ?
she looked so downcast , so unlike her usual vivid self , that i answered as honestly as i could .
no , alma .
west said something about revenge at one point , when he was angry with your father .
but i didnt realize he was going to do anything until he actually did it .
but surely you must have guessed !
you know him better than i , and i know he doesnt make empty threats .
you should have asked him , followed him , something !
she covered her face with her hands .
i just cant see beyond this thing .
everyone seems bitter and evil and uncharitable .
she looked at me with sudden fierceness .
charles , you must stop associating with herbert west !
i warned you about him from the first , and now hes shown just what sort of person he is absolutely without scruples , who will do anything to achieve his ends , without regard for the harm he does .
consider , why did he specially invite me to that ceremony ?
so i could see my father and mother in distress , so papa would know i had been there to see .
and youve been very cagey when ive asked you how he got that photograph , but im certain it was through some unsavoury connection .
i must ask you , charles please drop him !
hes my friend , alma .
hes done me no harm .
but hes done me harm !
and im more than your friend .
i felt a sinking of the heart .
from the first , i had feared that some day i would be asked to choose between alma and west .
but i needed them both .
i tried to hedge .
look , alma , i know how badly you feel about all this .
i cant expect you to be kindly disposed toward west after this .
but i honestly can not promise you to end my friendship with him .
please dont make me choose between you .
she laughed bitterly .
just now im in no position to do that .
if i drive you away , ill be altogether friendless .
im not strong enough for that .
she sighed .
well , enough of this for now .
im too tired to think any more .
i saw her to her bed , but did not stay .
as i left her house , i considered going back to wests , but for almas sake refrained and went home instead .
chapter 8 that summer west busied himself with establishing a practice in arkham .
one of the first things he did was to look for a suitable location .
after some searching he purchased a large lot on boundary street , close to st. marys hospital and incidentally not far from the potters field at hangmans hill .
when i asked whether this proximity was intentional , he replied , not really .
but one never knows when it might be necessary to do a little digging .
he immediately hired workmen to build a house with suitable premises for a physician , complete with consulting room , surgery and living quarters .
i shall live over the shop , charles , he said .
at first , anyway .
it suits me perfectly to have everything in one place .
a few months later , west gave me a tour of the completed structure .
you must see the cellar first , he insisted .
the cellar looked unremarkable , even a little small , i thought , until west opened a door concealed by a set of shelves and escorted me into a modern laboratory .
it was every bit as well furnished as the one at the medical school , where we had revivified kid obrien .
father floated me a rather generous loan , said west , so i decided to have all this installed immediately .
the workmen for this part were from boston , and were paid extra for discretion .
i expect to spend many productive hours here .
at the end of a short hall was an iron door which proved to belong to an incinerator , of the latest and most efficient model , west reassured me .
the chimney runs underground and pops up in the middle of the shrubbery at the back of the property just where one might expect rubbish to be burned .
wests living quarters on the second floor were also something of a revelation .
he had disposed of most of the furniture from his old rooms , and had made several trips to boston in the course of outfitting his new premises , and at least one to new york city .
the old stuff belonged to my grandfather , and was relegated to the attic when the pater felt it was no longer worthy of him , he said .
but ive kept some of the better pieces .
we began with the sitting room .
near the fireplace , two sofas and a number of chairs and small tables formed a convivial group .
at the far end of the room was a piano , its dark curving shape contrasting pleasingly with the rectilinear forms of the other pieces .
on the near wall an old mirror gave back the scene in a watery , wavery reflection .
with the exception of a fine cabinet of inlaid woods in geometric patterns , the furniture was nearly all dark , plain and functional , both the familiar new england pieces from wests grandfather and the more recent ones .
the somberness was only slightly relieved by the white walls and ceiling , and a few touches of brilliant colour in the carpets , lamps and ornamental glass objects .
on the mantel was a clock of ebony and silver , and a pair of silver candlesticks of elaborate and sinuous shape .
the windows were uncurtained , but in each one hung a panel of leaded glass , clear and coloured , in graceful geometric patterns through which twined shapes of leaves and flowers , like vines on a trellis .
at first , i found it all rather oppressive , almost gloomy .
only when west moved past me into the centre of the room did i perceive that , consciously or not , he had created a perfect setting for himself .
the effect , i thought then , was one of brilliance in darkness .
with him as its focus the room was suddenly complete and balanced .
its quite impressive , i said finally .
but i didnt know you play the piano , herbert .
i dont , he replied .
it was my mothers .
my father had no use for it , so i relieved him of it some years ago .
its been in a warehouse since then .
now i can finally give it an appropriate home .
the dining room was a pleasant surprise .
its walls featured panels painted in an abstract pattern in cream and various shades of yellow and green , reminiscent of reeds or papyrus .
here and there were fanciful golden flowers , and insects like dragonflies .
the furniture was of golden oak , light and graceful with slightly curving lines .
to my exclamations of admiration , west said only , i hired someone to design this .
an artistic french lady .
at least , her name was french , but i have some doubts as to its authenticity .
her accent had a way of slipping over to this side of the atlantic .
but she did quite well with this room , i think .
she did indeed , i said .
it puts me in mind of a sunny afternoon on a river .
you will have to have some splendid dinners , herbert , to do it justice .
first i need to hire a housekeeper .
once the incomparable mrs. fisk as west called her was found and installed , he set a date for his housewarming .
he invited the few friends he had made at the medical school , including several students and one or two faculty members who had been sympathetic to some of his ideas .
he also invited me , and , surprisingly , alma .
i wondered whether this was merely a diplomatic gesture , a genuine attempt to establish cordial relations , or merely a quirk of fancy on wests part .
in any case , it was not put to the test , since she refused to go .
i cant , she said to me , after writing a terse but polite note of refusal .
if things were different , id enjoy exchanging repartee with mr. west .
but right now , id either get angry and make a scene , or just feel alienated .
she made no objections to my attending , but i felt guilty nevertheless .
the dinner was quite a success .
the meal was excellent and the wines equal to it .
wests gift for maintaining a conversation drew me into the mainly medically oriented group .
naturally , our private research was never mentioned , but some of the things we had discussed over the years , such as the existence of the soul and the ethical aspects of research on human subjects , were thrashed out with enthusiasm .
west declared unequivocally that it was perfectly legitimate to use human beings as research material , provided that researchers adhered to standards .
individuals who are otherwise a drain on society , such as the insane and incorrigible criminals , would be ideal for the purpose , he said .
i suspected that he was exaggerating for effect , and made no comment , although i did think fleetingly of john hocks .
one or two of the others responded , vigorously opposing what they called a barbaric notion .
i hope for your sake , west , that if by some mischance you end up in the asylum or in jail , this idea of yours isnt in force .
or would you consider it an instance of justice in action ?
this provocative observation was made by john billington , a young man in his final year of studies at the medical school , and one of whom i had heard west speak highly several times .
west considered for a moment .
if the mischance , as you call it , was that of insanity or criminal behaviour , i suppose it would be justice .
the question is whether its better for the state to keep such individuals incarcerated at public expense , in an utterly pointless existence , or to employ them for the greater good .
i would rather be experimented upon for a few weeks and mercifully dispatched , than imprisoned for endless years .
billington did not appear convinced .
i wonder if you would change your mind if it really came to that point , west , he said , looking serious .
then he smiled , saying , but its not likely to happen .
ive never known anyone as hard headed as you , and as for the law , i think you know how to elude it .
a general laugh followed this comment , and the conversation turned to other things .
but i did not laugh .
a shadow had fallen over me , and it took nearly the rest of the evening for me to shake it off .
over the next several months , wests practice attracted a rather diverse clientele , which included faculty from miskatonic and some of the burghers of arkham .
most of his patients were drawn from the immigrant population of neighbouring bolton .
the arkhamites were attracted primarily by curiosity about the young man who had so discomfited the eminent dean of medicine .
those who found wests doctoring style congenial remained the rest drifted away .
the people from bolton , i suspected , had heard some rumour of the young doctor who had been present at a prizefight nearly two years before , who had spoken italian and had come to the aid of tony abruzzo .
they were mainly farm and factory workers , and their illnesses and ailments were of the crude variety common among such folk .
there were also occasional spectacular injuries such as that which had killed albert whidbey .
knife wounds , too , were not uncommon , incurred when passions were fueled by drink .
west , as it turned out , preferred dealing with such repairs .
im good at cutting and stitching , he said to me one evening when i had dropped by for a visit , so the bolton patients have confidence in me .
the worthies of arkham , on the other hand he laughed .
i suppose i lack the proper bedside manner .
i admit that i have little tolerance for people of privilege whose principal ailments are boredom and an inability to make up their minds .
im no disciple of drs .
freud or jung , charles .
i do best with visible wounds and injuries .
if there is nothing i can do , no treatment or drug that i can administer , i say so , and suggest that the individual try someone else .
there are plenty of men , self styled psychoanalysts , ready to listen ad infinitum to self indulgent maunderings , charging a hefty hourly fee besides .
it soon appeared that west was destined for a surgical specialty .
several other arkham doctors had called him in on difficult cases .
his reputation was further enhanced by a terrible accident in which a train had struck an automobile at a crossing .
one of the motorists had been killed outright , but the other two survived , largely , it appeared , through the efforts of young dr. west .
socially , young dr. west was not much more available than herbert west the medical student had been , despite the demand for his presence at social functions .
he was hardly the heroic type , being rather slight and of no more than medium height , but he held himself and moved in such a way as to suggest that his was the most desirable size for a man , and that larger fellows were labouring under a handicap .
he had clear cut features , blond hair , a smile of extraordinary sweetness and remarkable grey eyes .
the gold rimmed spectacles he usually wore enhanced rather than detracted from his elegant appearance .
finally , he was known to be wealthy , and there clung to him an aura of danger and rakishness , resulting from the dubious reputations of his father and brothers , and , of course , from the commencement day incident .
whether wests practice absorbed the greater part of his energies , or whether his enthusiasm for revivification waned in the face of indifferent success , we did fewer experiments in the new premises than we had in the dank little room in the hospital .
i was not particularly sorry .
my doubts as to the value of our work and its ethical ramifications persisted , but i did not often voice them .
i knew he was engaged in experiments besides the revivifications .
there was a room in the cellar laboratory that remained locked .
when i asked him about it , west made its status clear .
those experiments may prove to be even more important , in the end , than my revivification work .
but they are not at a stage where i am prepared to discuss them .
even with you , charles .
he gestured toward a stack of notebooks piled on his desk .
ive gone over all the data , he said , and i think ive reached the limit of what i can learn given my current methods .
i have some ideas for improving the revivifying fluid , but they need further testing .
the primary difficulty is the availability of subjects .
ive concluded that its possible successfully to revivify a corpse only within a limited time after death .
twelve hours or less .
less than six , really , if one expects any kind of cognitive ability to remain .
as you know , in all our morgue cases , i made note of the time that had elapsed between death and the revivification attempt .
this graph , he waved a sheet of paper at me , shows a clear correlation between that and the success of the attempt , expressed in time between revivification and final death , qualified by other factors , such as ability to articulate .
our most successful case to date was obrien .
its too bad he was such a violently disposed individual .
if you hadnt had to kill him he might have proved very interesting .
but herbert , i said , what about john hocks ?
ah yes , john hocks.. you know , charles , ive thought a great deal about hocks .
all the evidence now points to the strong possibility that hocks wasnt dead when they buried him .
what ?
its the only explanation that fits .
he revived beautifully .
he was articulate , or at least he probably was .
we didnt exactly get a chance to interview him , if you recall .
comparing him to the morgue specimens , i think he had died well within the twelve hour period .
since he was buried before noon on the day we exhumed him , he must have lain in that coffin alive for several hours , at least .
like most people , i was horrified at the notion of premature burial .
perhaps he wasnt dead at all , ever .
maybe he was alive when we did the experiment , and thats why he no chance .
not at all .
charles , i know how to check for vital signs .
there were none .
he was dead .
but it hadnt been thirty six hours , as i first thought .
eight or ten is more likely .
you may even be right premature burial may have predisposed him to violence in some way .
he must have died slowly of asphyxiation , rather than quickly by drowning .
ironic , isnt it , that our first two experiments should have been our most successful .
so you think we need fresher specimens .
by now i used his euphemisms without a second thought .
exactly .
in revivification , as in cookery , freshness is all .
i am sorry to conclude that the opportunity to reverse death is so limited .
but at least it gives me a clear direction for future efforts .
well , surely that should be no trouble now .
what about your patients those who are close to death , i mean ?
if i had thought to shock west with this callous suggestion , i was disappointed .
dont suppose i havent thought of that , he said .
but on analysis , there are a number of reasons why patients , of the ordinary sort anyway , are no good for my purposes .
you must agree that anyone who dies of a lengthy illness is not going to be a good candidate for revivification .
i did , with a shudder .
these had been some of our most repulsive specimens .
only wests resolve had kept me from mutiny a couple of times .
second , patients rarely drop dead in their doctors office .
if theyre well enough to arrive there on their own feet , they usually leave by the same means .
if they need to be carried in , those who do the carrying usually stay to await results .
most often , people die at home or in the hospital .
in both situations there are other people about and procedures that must be followed .
by the time the body is left where we can get at it , too much time has passed .
so despite my improved facilities , i am as handicapped as ever when it comes to suitable subjects .
now if i could grow them myself he broke off , with a laugh .
have you ever considered soliciting a volunteer ?
you know ask someone to sign a statement that if they are ever killed in an accident , their body goes to you for scientific purposes .
now that is a good idea , charles .
west got up and began to pace , as he always did when excited .
a very good idea .
it would have to be done carefully the right sort of person , the right sort of approach .
and there would be all sorts of noise from men like halsey if word got out indignation at the vulgarity of it , and so on .
it would have to be someone strong minded , too , not to be dissuaded by interfering busybodies .
the trouble is , of course , that even if i were to find several prospective donors , i couldnt count on any one of them being available at a given time , if ever .
i cant expect people to kill themselves on my account .
suddenly , he struck the desk with his hand .
damn it , if only there was a sure way of getting the right sorts of subjects !
im keen to start testing the improved formula , but theres no use wasting time on morgue denizens .
it looks as though the only choices i have are to resign myself to taking much longer than i ever imagined , or or what ?
why , engage in more illegal activities , of course .
he smiled .
dont panic , charles .
im not sure just what form they would take as yet .
but ill think of something .
what we really need , he added , is a war .
at the beginning of the new year , i took alma to new york city .
i had planned and saved for this trip since the previous summer .
since i was not prepared to give up my association with west for almas sake , i sought for ways to compensate for it .
in no way did she expect compensation .
i hoped that she would not recognize it for what it was , but i thought she was happy to be distracted .
i wanted the trip to be a memorable one .
to this end i had been assiduous in my economies , and had amassed enough of a surplus to go first class .
we stayed at the waldorf astoria on 34th street .
alma wanted to pay for her own room , but i overbore her .
this was my idea , and its my treat , all the way .
if you dont agree , we might as well turn around and go back to arkham .
all right , charles , she laughed with some of her old lightheartedness .
be the masterful man , if thats what you want .
just dont expect me to be putty in your hands .
the fall and early winter had been difficult for alma .
despite her modern ideas , it is not easy in a place like arkham to dissociate oneself from family scandals , especially for women .
several friends had dropped her outright .
others had asked questions under the guise of friendly concern that were clearly attempts to satisfy prurient curiosity .
she had not spoken much of these things , but i often saw weariness and sorrow in her face , and she had grown thinner .
i hoped these few days away would lift her spirits .
we were fortunate in the weather , which was cold but clear .
at almas insistence we walked through the streets of manhattan , looking into shops , buying food from street vendors , stopping at cafes and watching the crowds pass by .
we made up stories about the people we saw .
it was as though the city was a huge entertainment put on exclusively for us .
later , in a hired carriage we toured around central park , watching the snow under the trees turn to that exquisite shade of blue that it assumes as a winter day changes into night .
do you suppose this is why they call it lheure bleu in france ?
asked alma .
i wouldnt have thought they get enough snow there , i replied .
but it certainly fits , doesnt it ?
as the soft blueness deepened into night , i kissed her , first with tenderness , then with passion .
lets go back to the hotel , she said .
i had arranged for a bottle of champagne to be delivered to almas room .
we drank a toast to the new year , and to each other .
then we went to bed .
this was the first time i had spent an entire night with alma .
in arkham our need for discretion had caused me always to leave before dawn .
blissfully realizing this time that there was no need to go , i watched alma sleeping beside me , a look of peace on her face , and felt a rush of tenderness .
enough of this limbo existence , i thought .
tell west to find himself another assistant .
he doesnt really need you anyway .
marry alma and get on with life .
but later , this seemed only a dream i had had .
the following day we toured the metropolitan museum of art , galleries and bookshops , where each of us found things to delight the other .
how well i remember alma coming over to me , eyes shining , leading me by the arm to some painting , saying , come here , charles , you must see this , its just the sort of thing youd love and most of the time it was .
that evening we went to the metropolitan opera puccinis madama butterfly , with geraldine farrar and giovanni martinelli , toscanini conducting .
i had procured the tickets from my mothers new york relatives , who were subscribers .
my hints became something like pleas as the weeks went by .
finally i received a letter saying that my cousins would be out of the country for part of the winter , and i could attend a performance in their place .
for a couple of provincials , alma and i were rather well turned out .
she wore a dark blue dress which clung to her figure , decorated with an intricate design in small shiny beads , a long velvet coat and matching hat .
in addition to formal evening wear , i was decked out in a cape and silk top hat .
these items belonged to west .
he had pressed them upon me when he heard of this expedition .
i have just what you need , charles .
dont imagine you can get away with that shapeless tweed object you call a coat .
that will only confirm what those nyc parvenus think of us parsimonious yankees .
he went into his bedroom and returned moments later with the cape .
i wore this to the met .
myself , once , he said , to a performance of faust .
it was , of course , black , but this was the only sober thing about it .
the garment was cut so as to swirl about the wearers ankles calves , in my case , since i was nearly half a head taller than west .
there were small lead weights sewn into the hem to exaggerate the effect of ones movements , west explained .
the lining was of peacock blue silk .
he made me put it on and take a turn around the room .
no , no , no !
you dont clump in a garment like this .
here , let me show you .
he put the thing on and demonstrated the trick of the quick turn that made for a dramatic swirl and flash of blue .
on west it looked entirely natural , but i resolved not to bother .
you look magnificent , charles !
alma exclaimed as i met her in the lobby of our hotel .
quite the man of the world .
i admitted that my finery was borrowed , and from whom .
well , he does have good taste in clothes , she said .
ive never said otherwise .
our seats were rather good ones , in the centre of the balcony .
oh , its like being inside a chocolate box !
said alma , as we entered the maroon and gold splendour of the auditorium .
we chatted about our surroundings and the opulently dressed people we saw entering the private boxes , but as the time neared for the performance to begin , we fell silent with anticipation .
from the first notes of the orchestral prelude , something felt wrong between us , rather like the disjoint situation in the first act of the drama , in which butterflys delusion about her marriage is so pathetically obvious .
during the great love duet , i took almas hand in mine , and felt a closeness to her such as i had experienced at other concerts .
but as the story darkened i felt her withdraw from me , gently yet inexorably .
during the tragic aria un bel di , in which the heroines confident words are belied by the agitation of the vocal line , i reached once more for almas hand .
she acquiesced briefly , with a little pressure , then drew away .
i looked at her face , expecting perhaps to see her moved to tears , and uncomfortable with it , but she sat rapt and dry eyed .
not until near the end of the opera , when butterfly sings the arioso passage beginning sotto il gran parte del cielo ?
in which she agrees to give up her child , did alma acknowledge my presence .
suddenly she turned toward me and i could see that her eyes were full of tears .
afterward , we had a late supper at a restaurant near times square .
alma remained serious and a little subdued .
more than once she said something about the prevalence in the opera of the idea that women must pay a heavy price for love .
it seems almost a choice between life with a man , or life itself , she mused .
think of that aria one fine day when he returns everything will be beautiful .
until that day she is in limbo .
nothing else is as important as him , not even her child .
she postpones happiness until his return , and when he doesnt return to her , she chooses death .
but alma , this is opera , not a prescription for life , i protested .
youre supposed to experience the tragedy vicariously , with your emotions excited by the gorgeous music .
its meant to make you feel , not think .
well , im sorry , charles , but i have this habit of thinking .
actually , i admit ive allowed my personal thoughts about life to colour my enjoyment of the evening .
you must forgive me , and know that i am grateful to you for taking me .
after this i could see that she was making an effort to resume her old lively style of conversation , but the very fact of the effort made me unhappy .
and i myself kept pushing away the nagging idea that the character i most resembled was the less than admirable b.f. pinkerton .
fog swirled through the streets as we made our way back to the hotel .
i drew alma close to me , and was glad that she did not resist .
that part , at least , of our relationship was intact .
but even in the depths of the night , as we sought one another with the passion that renews itself always , i realized that the theme of the evening had changed to one of endingness .
in the years that have passed since that time i have often thought about alma .
i think now that in my youthful ignorance i misjudged her , especially at the vulnerable time that followed the downfall of her father .
i think that if i had asked her then to marry me she would have agreed , after a token refusal or two .
she must have thought that the trip to new york , and my insistence on paying for everything , was preliminary to a proposal .
when none materialized she must have resolved to rely only on herself .
some weeks after this i received an urgent summons from west .
expecting that he had managed to obtain what he would no doubt call suitable experimental material , i promptly made my way to his house .
to my surprise , i found that i was going to be given a course in laboratory work .
two developments , charles , said west , as we descended to the cellar .
first , ive come up with a way to stabilize the fluid , so it is now possible to make it in quantity for future use .
second , i have no time right now to do that myself , so i must prevail upon you .
everything about the situation bothered me , from the peremptory nature of the summons , to wests terse manner , to his assumption that i was available to do this work , whatever it involved .
what makes you think i can do it at all ?
from what youve told me , it needs a lot of precise measuring and fiddling .
i know next to nothing about chemistry .
and anyway , why cant you do it , since its so important ?
for a good reason , and quite delightfully ironic , in fact .
ill be back at miskatonic for a while , not as a student , but as an instructor .
how things change , eh ?
west had been recommended by the influential dr .
bright to the acting dean of the medical school replacing allan halsey , who was still on leave as a possible clinical instructor , because of his growing reputation as a surgeon .
when an unexpected vacancy had come up , he had been offered a temporary appointment .
and i want to do it , charles .
i have some innovative techniques i want to pass along to the younger fellows .
no , not experimental , merely improvements on the standard methods .
but you can see how this constricts my time , he continued .
there are my regular patients , my hospital patients , my research and now this .
its probably just as well good subjects are so scarce these days .
but i want to build up a stock of the fluid , so we have plenty on hand when the need arises .
also , i use it in some of my other work .
he said this last in a manner that i knew well enough to interpret as , dont ask , because im not going to tell you .
all right , herbert , but how on earth do you expect me to manage ?
do you have a recipe , like in a cooking book ?
i might remind you i know almost nothing about that either .
oh i know that .
ive set everything up for you .
heres your recipe , if you like , he said , showing me several sheets of paper covered with his spiky handwriting , and some sketches as well .
and here are the ingredients , on this shelf .
you will see that ive labelled the various components by letters and numbers , not by what they actually are .
that makes it simpler for you , and should anyone come prowling around , its just as well that everything is in code .
he explained the procedure , repeating the parts i did not understand , until i could demonstrate to his satisfaction that i could competently carry out the weighing and measuring , mixing , heating and decanting .
the trickiest part of the process was at the end , when one liquid was added drop by drop to another until a reaction took place , and the fluid changed to the characteristic violet colour .
one drop too many and its all over , said west .
thats why i do it in this rather fiddly way , with the burette and everything .
i havent yet found a way to achieve good results by straight measurement .
there are too many variables such as temperature and humidity .
but i cant emphasize too much the need to keep your wits about you at that stage .
what happens if i put in too much ?
does it go a different colour ?
and what would be the effect on the experiment , i mean ?
no , you wouldnt see a colour difference .
and as for the effect , it would overwhelm the mechanism .
the subject would revive , all right , but in a short time the heart would start to race , and literally explode .
given the scarcity of good corpses , i wouldnt want that to happen .
now , how about if you make the next batch by yourself ?
ill observe and let you know if you do anything wrong .
so it was that i became wests unpaid lab assistant , as well as his accomplice in grave robbing , illegal transport of corpses and experimentation .
for several months , i spent a considerable number of evenings in his laboratory .
i dont know whether the chemicals i worked with had some subtle effect on me , but after cooking up two or three batches of the stuff , i felt strangely restless .
once i went to alma in this state , but after an hour of my overstimulated company she asked me to leave , disturbed by my inability to stop talking or to stay in one place for more than five minutes .
after this i made a point of avoiding her on these nights , and found other means of dealing with the strange urgency , namely long walks followed by writing reams of poetry fit only for burning the next day .
the main room of wests laboratory was about twenty feet square , containing a dissection table rather like those in the medical schools pathology laboratory .
in addition there were the usual fittings lab bench , sink , bunsen burners , microscopes .
along one wall were shelves and cupboards containing glassware and other implements , as well as a variety of chemicals .
next to these was a narrow door leading to the annexe , in which west worked on his other experiments .
it was always locked .
i knew this because i checked .
one night i was preparing to brew up yet another batch of what i privately called dr. wests magic elixir .
it had been brought to my attention that the supply was running low .
how can that be ?
i exclaimed , only half jokingly .
there were three flasks just a few days ago , after you had me do that marathon session on saturday .
what do you do with the stuff , drink it ?
west had a trick of slightly widening those grey eyes of his to express varying emotions , from surprise to disbelief to a certain amusement .
but it could also mean exasperation , even anger , as on this occasion .
what do you think ?
he asked .
ive told you , i use it in some of my other work important work which i shall tell you about in due time .
now im off to the hospital .
i should be back in a couple of hours .
two litres ought to do it .
an hour later i had prepared one litre of the violet coloured fluid .
i gazed at the stuff in its flask .
it was a very strange colour , somehow shifting in intensity , even appearing slightly iridescent .
this was very curious , because the two liquids that were combined to produce it were clear as water , until some exact proportion was attained , when the transformation occurred .
organic molecules , west had said .
i wondered for the fiftieth time how this substance worked .
what did it do inside the dead arteries , the dead heart , to make a corpse breathe and move and speak again , however briefly ?
knowing nothing much about physiology , and in absolute ignorance of the constituents of the liquid , i could not begin to guess .
for me , the business came down to faith faith in herbert west .
i sometimes fancied that the fluid itself actually had very little effect , that it was merely a medium for wests will , which was the force that actually brought about the transformation .
i began the process all over again for the second litre .
west had explained that it was not possible simply to double the recipe , because of the precision required in some of the steps .
i was weighing some powders when i discovered that there was an insufficient quantity of one of them .
the stock jar , carefully labelled , was on one of the higher shelves nearby .
i must have been careless in positioning the ladder , for as i reached the next to highest rung and shifted my weight in order to reach the jar i needed , it slipped .
so quickly did everything happen then that i had no chance to grab at something to save myself .
this was just as well , since the only possible thing i could have grabbed was the shelves , which would have brought them and the heavy glass jars they supported down on top of me .
i fell , striking my head glancingly on the edge of the porcelain topped table .
i must have been unconscious before i reached the floor .
i was insensible for a long time , as such things go half an hour at least , west thought later .
but for all i knew , it might have been millennia , during which humanity died , and the sun burned away , and the earth as we know it was consumed .
the universe itself may have ceased to exist and been formed anew from primordial dust .
my return to consciousness was like being born , a hard and painful birth .
i came to myself through a rushing blackness that was sickening in the extreme .
when it was over , i knew i was lying on my back , although i could see nothing and did not know where i was .
there was an awareness of i and not i , but that was all .
then a terrible knowledge overwhelmed me .
i was in wests laboratory , on the table , and west , not knowing i was still alive , was preparing to revivify me .
i could feel his quick cool fingers unfastening my collar , touching my neck .
something cold pressed against my chest and i heard a metallic clink .
i struggled to cry out , to move , to open my eyes , but to no avail .
in a moment , i knew , i would feel the searing pain of the scalpel opening my neck , and the hollow needle would slide into my vein .
what would happen then ?
had west ever injected the fluid into a living body ?
would it kill me ?
it excites the vital processes , he had said once when i asked him how the stuff worked .
i envisioned my heart racing to the point where it burst hemorrhage , apoplexy , death .
my eyes opened suddenly , and i screamed .
or at least , i thought i screamed , but emitted only a convulsive gasp .
west was bending over me , but i saw no scalpel in his hand .
he did not speak , but a curious collection of expressions passed over his features .
i saw relief , yes , but only after a kind of thwarted excitement and i was sure of it disappointment .
well , charles , he said at length , it seems youll live , but you have a lump the size of an egg on the back of your head .
no , dont try to get up just yet .
i have to do some things first .
he shone a light into my eyes and watched my pupils contract .
he pinched my extremities and asked whether i could feel it .
he asked me various things about myself , and , when the answers seemed to satisfy him , helped me to my feet .
i felt only slightly dizzy , so west suggested we go up to his living quarters , where he settled me on a sofa .
i came home about nine oclock and found you on the floor , he said .
you were in quite a deep state of unconsciousness .
youve had a concussion , certainly .
if you had hit that table just a little differently , i think you would be dead .
surely no , herbert , i said , voicing the thing that had been in my mind ever since i regained consciousness .
surely by now i would have been on the way to my second life .
you know me too well , charles .
he looked directly into my eyes and said , yes , if you had died , it would have been an almost ideal situation a freshly dead body , as the result of an accident .
except that head cases dont make the best subjects .
but already in the lab , too !
entirely the act of friendship i would have expected from you .
but how do i know it didnt happen ?
maybe ive been dead , and am now the first person to have been successfully revivified .
sadly , no .
if that had been the case you would have found yourself on the table , not on the floor .
and instead of bringing you up here and giving you tea i would have been busy gathering data and making notes .
coming back to consciousness was dreadful , i said , shuddering .
it really did feel like what ive imagined those corpses must go through a kind of tearing of the fabric of reality , and utter helplessness .
like birth in reverse .
but really , for a while there i was sure you thought i was dead and were getting ready to pump me full of fluid .
and i had a batch all ready , too .
before i was finally able to see and speak i was certain you were going to cut my neck open and stick a needle in .
now , charles , if i know nothing else i can certainly tell whether someone is dead or not .
you were breathing , and i had no trouble finding a pulse .
but you would have done it , if i had been dead , i persisted .
yes , i would have .
it would have been criminal of me not to have made the attempt .
consider , if i had not , if i had merely done the expected thing reported an accidental death and let the machinery take over , you would be dead now , and would stay that way .
but if i had used you as a subject , theres a chance you would be , well , less than dead now .
less than dead .
thats about how i feel , all right .
i dont think im up to making up that second litre .
id probably mess it up .
thats all right .
go home and sleep .
ill make up the second batch , and maybe more .
ill be up late anyway .
i made my way homeward , still feeling shaky .
i was glad to get away from him .
his reasoning had been entirely logical , but its coldness repelled me .
it disturbed me that i could make the transition from friend to experimental subject in the length of time it took him to do an examination for vital signs .
and there was another thing .
between the look of disappointment i had seen on his face when my eyes opened and the look of relief that followed had been an expression of utterly cold calculation .
chapter 9 that spring i moved to more spacious quarters , quite close to wests old rooms on college street .
an increase in my salary permitted an escape from the two shabby rooms i had inhabited since coming to arkham .
i was fortunate enough to rent the entire second floor of a house quite close to the miskatonic campus .
my landlord was something of a bohemian , a poet and occasional lecturer in the english department , by the name of marcus desmond .
he and his wife entertained a great deal , occasionally including me in their rather casual gatherings .
from time to time , desmond himself would turn up in my quarters , eager to talk about anything and everything , and to drink whatever i had on hand .
i found this arrangement generally congenial , despite occasional noise and disruptions .
i was independent , yet not altogether isolated , and no one cared if my comings and goings were erratic at times .
west gave me some of his surplus furniture a rug , some bookshelves , a couple of little tables .
i have them still .
alma gave me good advice on decorating without extravagance .
she and i made an expedition to boston , to shops that sold prints and other art works at reasonable prices , as well as more practical items .
once i was settled , i invited both of them , as well as a few other friends and colleagues , to a small celebration .
i was not without trepidation , given the animosity which existed between these two closest friends of mine .
however , i need not have worried .
the commencement day incident had faded from arkhams collective memory .
both west and alma behaved with exemplary politeness .
in fact , i considered the evening a modest success .
alma was the last to depart , but depart she did .
by this time there was no doubt but that our affair was cooling .
strangely enough , our friendship did not seem to be affected , for which i was profoundly grateful .
indeed , the bittersweet quality of these days was a pleasure in itself , as though the slow dissolution of the bonds of passion created beauties of a different order .
and every now and then the old ardour flared up anew .
one afternoon , a message from west arrived at my desk .
brain clearing session tonight .
please come .
this was unusual more often it said come if you like .
and certainly please was most uncharacteristic .
although the prospect of serious drinking did not attract me just then , i resolved to go .
the last few times i had seen west he had been rather down in the dumps , which was also uncharacteristic .
these so called brain clearings of wests what other people called debauches or merely drinking parties had become quite rare since he had taken up doctoring .
im not thinking as intensely these days getting old , i suppose , he said , with one of the sweet smiles that seemed to belie his words .
he was only twenty seven .
when i arrived at wests that evening i could see at once that it was not to be a typical drinking session .
for one thing , i was the only guest .
for another , there was only one bottle of scotch on the table , along with glasses and a jug of water .
only the two of us tonight , herbert ?
i asked , pouring my first drink of the evening .
yes .
as you may have guessed , this isnt a real brain clearing , only a kind of in memoriam for our younger days .
and i have business in boston tomorrow .
but this seemed as good a time as any to well , to talk .
about what , herbert ?
i was mystified .
west never had to set up an occasion to talk .
he could hold forth on nearly anything any time , if he was so inclined .
oh , cabbages and kings , he said , laughing and reaching for the bottle .
or cauliflowers and deans , if you prefer .
i cant think whats come over me lately .
such seriousness !
and where does it get me ?
life was a good deal more entertaining in my pre hippocratic days , when my only patients were already dead .
speaking of which , unless were blessed with a good subject for revivification soon , my new research direction will be my only one .
so will you tell me about it now ?
youve been so secretive about it .
with good reason .
when something seems impossible , its altogether best to keep it secret until it no longer seems that way .
and i must admit , it does still seem that way .
he gave me a speculative look .
well , charles , youve never blabbed to anyone , so i will tell you that the new research concerns not revivification , but renovation .
yes , it might be called that , certainly .
renovation .
what you mean , of bodies ?
a fountain of youth ?
that would be something indeed .
not exactly .
not yet , anyway , although ultimately perhaps .
lets just say that i think i have found a way to repair or even replace parts .
but thats all ill say right now .
as we talked , i happened to notice that there were some pictures on the wall behind the piano .
i had never seen them before , and assumed that they were newly acquired .
i went over to look at them more closely .
all three were obviously the work of a single artist .
the style was vaguely reminiscent of the symbolist painters of europe , especially gustav klimt and jan toorop .
the scenes were depthless and abstract , demonstrating a skillful use of dark and light tones .
at first i thought the hieratic figures in stylized poses were mythological or literary personages , but on studying them more closely , i perceived that these works depicted scenes of surgery .
each one showed the horizontal shape of a patient being ministered to by a masked form who was surely a surgeon , but of a diabolical sort i hoped sincerely was only a figment of the artists imagination .
in one picture this sinister individual was extracting an organ from the patients body .
in another he appeared to be attaching an appendage of grotesque shape and unknown function to the hapless creature .
in the third , he held in his hand a flask containing a brilliant blue liquid , and was in the process of decanting it into the patients mouth , which was held open by a shadowy assistant .
the longer i looked at these images , the more disturbing i found them .
the relentless deliberation exhibited by the figure of the surgeon , the terrified helplessness of the patient or victim ?
made me think that what i was looking at was a personification of evil .
do you like them ?
asked west , startling me .
i had failed to notice his approach , and did not expect to find him next to me .
something in his voice made me look at him sharply .
he was smiling in a way i could think of only as mischievous .
not altogether , i replied .
theyre well executed , certainly , but i find the subjects rather macabre .
well yes , i agree .
that describes them rather well .
but i think theyre appropriate .
i considered hanging them in my office downstairs , but didnt think my patients would appreciate them .
i dare say they wouldnt !
i said , laughing in spite of myself .
who is the artist ?
a student at the medical school , one walter dixon taylor .
i think you met him here once .
former student , i should say .
he decided he couldnt stand the sight of blood and dropped out a few months ago .
i imagine hes happily starving in a garret and painting more things like these .
he owed me money , you see , and gave me these paintings instead , a few days before he decamped .
the longer i have them the more i think ive had the best of the bargain .
do you know what inspired these scenes ?
i asked .
or are they purely imaginary ?
what a question , charles !
take another look .
the first one is realistic enough obviously an ectomy of some sort splenectomy , appendectomy , its hard to say which , and doesnt really matter .
but the other two i can tell you unequivocally that no one i know has ever endeavoured to graft an object of this sort onto a patient .
and the third is surely not an advisable way to administer a liquid .
no , i think taylor was exploring his own antipathy to the profession .
he was really quite unstable .
but why do you suppose he decided to give you these particular pictures ?
i thought i remembered taylor from wests housewarming dinner , not quite a year before a dark young man , and rather silent .
he hadnt said much , only gazed intently about him in a manner i had found disconcerting .
they were his choice .
for all i know , he might have painted even more shocking ones .
why should it matter , anyway ?
sometimes i think youre growing too suspicious for your own good .
he resolutely refused to answer any more questions , but proceeded instead to analyze a recent scandal that had erupted in the school of engineering .
one of the professors there had been denied funding for the development of a portable drilling apparatus that could be used for geological research in remote regions .
instead , money had been awarded to a rival working on an improved kind of machine gun .
it seemed that the first professor was claiming that the award was not objective because one of the members of the granting committee represented a manufacturer of armaments .
west saw in the situation some parallel with his old dilemma at the medical school .
i could not quite follow his reasoning , and found myself assuming my old role of devils advocate .
by the time we had thrashed over the engineers , the bottle was nearing emptiness and the two of us were pleasantly inebriated .
suddenly west said , now , charles i have a small confession to make .
i had never heard anything like this from him .
confessions were definitely not in wests line , requiring as they did admissions of wrongdoing or error .
you remember all that stuff i told you now when was it ?
oh yes , over that first dinner we had at da vincis , after the concert by that young violinist .
castelo branco , that was the name .
well , all that stuff about my mother dying , and my twin brother it wasnt exactly true , you know .
i know .
ive known for years .
it was wests turn to look astonished , something else at which he did not get much practice .
how did you ?
i met an old fellow one day , shortly after that dinner , in fact .
he used to work for your father , and your grandfather too .
his name was howard , philip howard .
philip howard , west said slowly .
oh yes , i remember him now .
a chatty old fellow .
so what did he tell you , exactly ?
just that your mother didnt die when you were eight .
and that you never had a twin brother .
knowing wests enjoyment for adjusting the truth , i didnt want to make it too easy for him by revealing everything howard had told me .
just that , eh ?
west was laughing .
you know me too well , charles .
all right , ill tell you what i meant to all along , and you will judge who told you the truth , philip howard or i .
from what i recall of the fellow , he liked to spin a yarn .
and he was right , my mother didnt die not then , anyway .
when i was eight , she left my father and us boys and disappeared .
and no , i never had a twin brother .
i told you that story , i suppose , because i wanted to convince you of the purity of my motives and the worthiness of my cause .
at the time , of course , i underestimated your shrewdness and overdid the pathos .
you certainly did .
but herbert , why are you telling me all this now ?
he looked uncomfortable .
im not certain .
i suppose its because weve been associates , and friends too , for so long that it didnt seem right to keep up that old fiction .
but of course i didnt know you had already been enlightened by mr. howard .
and theres another thing .
its rather hard to explain .
he stared off into space for a moment .
it has to do with some of my patients in bolton .
the italians .
you see , i think i might be related to some of them .
i was astonished until i remembered his explanation for the fact that he spoke a little italian .
it had seemed suspect at the time .
related ?
through my mothers mother .
she was italian , and had relatives in bolton .
it all goes back to that prizefight we went to .
word got around in bolton that there was a young doctor there named west who spoke italian .
since then , a few patients , older people mostly , have been asking me about my grandmother and my mother .
and of course , i have nothing to tell them .
its as though theres a great hole in my past .
he fell silent , but i said nothing .
after a moment he continued .
my parents marriage was not a happy one .
or , i should say , even less happy than most .
my mother was the result of an unlikely union between an old arkham family , the derbys , and an italian immigrants daughter from bolton .
im sure theres a story there , but i dont know it .
and how she came to marry hiram west ill probably never know either .
im not sure i want to .
my grandfather and his brother , joshua and henry , were the founders of the funeral business .
they were typical yankee businessmen hardheaded , hard working , and essentially honest .
they stuck to their undertaking , and made a success of it .
true , they joined the vulgar rush after the civil war trade , and some of their advertising methods were in questionable taste , but they were straightforward .
but my father he could never be content with only one business .
it wasnt the fact that it was undertaking that bothered him , just that it didnt offer him enough scope .
merely to work away at a trade was too dull .
he needs to buy and sell , take over , break down and build up .
it goes beyond business for him , i think .
its the control he needs the more the better , and not necessarily by gentle persuasion .
certainly , he exercised an iron control in his family .
youve met my father , charles .
im sure you saw a jovial buffoon , a little loud , a little overbearing , but full of good will .
right ?
on my acknowledgment of this description , he said , nothing could be farther from the truth .
there is no good in him , only will .
toward those who fall in line behind him hes benevolent .
to those he doesnt need hes indifferent .
to those who oppose him hes ruthless .
i think my mother was rather like yours in some ways , charles .
from what youve told me of her i think there were similarities .
a love of music , certainly , a romantic nature , perhaps .
but all lightness of spirit must have been pretty much bullied out of her by the time i was even half aware of such things .
i think she must have survived for years by suppressing her true nature .
but then something happened there was another long silence .
then he said , i think she had a love affair .
or wanted to , at least .
even that would have done it .
ive asked my brothers about this , carefully , you understand .
jokingly , even .
they are five and eight years older than i , so jeremy would have been nearly fourteen and hiram jr. sixteen .
my mother was not yet thirty five .
but either they didnt know much , or they didnt want to tell me .
hiram just refused to talk .
jeremy brushed me off with an insult .
so i had to fall back on my own memories .
our coachman at the time was a good looking fellow called desmond robertson .
i almost remember something it seems like a dream and maybe it was one but theres a picture in my mind of this robertson helping my mother out of the carriage .
she had been to a luncheon or something , and i was watching for her from my room on the second floor .
there was something about the way he took her hand nothing improper , you understand , just a subtle thing .
and the way she looked at him i never said anything to her .
what could i say ?
but ive never forgotten it .
it was as though his words broke a seal in my memory , and i had a sudden vivid picture of a sunny clearing in my mothers garden , with its table and chairs .
i was walking toward it , down the shaded allee of clipped yews .
i stood in their green darkness and saw my mother and michael oconnor as though in a cave of sunlight .
in the dazzlement i saw him take her hand and kiss it .
i saw her touch his face .
i knew that i should not be seeing this , that i must speak of it to no one .
they had not seen me .
i turned around and went away .
west had begun speaking again by the time i was able to pay attention to him .
robertson disappeared shortly afterward .
i think he was fired , but i dont know for sure .
you mean he might have been murdered ?
west looked uneasy .
its possible .
and yes , my father is certainly capable of having done it .
or having it done .
but i dont know .
and not long after , my mother left .
i dont think he realized she was capable of doing such a thing .
she had been so submissive for years , you see .
if he had known he would have stopped her .
she must have gone to her father , here in arkham , but not for long .
my father would have known where to find them , after all .
i wonder , now , if she might have gone to bolton for a time .
but that doesnt make sense either .
those elderly patients spoke of her as though she was a distant memory , just a child .
they didnt seem to know anything about her after she disappeared .
philip howard seemed to think she was in arkham , i said , hesitantly .
i remember thinking at the time how strange it was that you and she would be living in the same city , given the circumstances .
in arkham !
but how would he know ?
im not sure .
maybe he was guessing .
but he said her family had been here for generations .
here , not bolton .
i suppose he was referring to her fathers family .
the derbys .
yes , that may be .
we have very little to do with them , actually .
the usual bad blood .
well , if thats true it would be very interesting .
but i think ill keep this bit of information to myself , charles .
please dont tell anyone .
and i must speak to philip howard too , if i can track him down .
but why all this secrecy ?
havent you heard anything i said ?
my father is not a forgiving man .
dont imagine that he would be eager to kiss and make up with his erring wife , even after more than twenty years .
what happened to you after your mother left ?
i asked .
i got along as she had , by being quiet and no trouble to anyone .
mostly i stayed out of my fathers way and did as i was told .
strangely enough , i get along with him .
my brothers well , hiram jr. is all right , but jeremy for some reason he hates me .
but its a good thing that father has them to carry on his empire .
hes had few expectations of me , so it was easy for me to go my own way .
still , he rather likes the idea of having a physician in the family .
but who brought you up ?
you know , showed you how to do things , how to behave , that sort of thing ?
sometimes i think i brought myself up , he said with a smile .
after my mother left , the household was in disarray .
i remember trying to organize a birthday party for myself when i turned nine , since there was no one else to do it .
things would have been worse without our housekeeper , mrs. petrucci .
talking with her helped me retain the italian i had learned from my mother .
thats how i learned to cook too , by hanging around the kitchen .
at least there was order there .
the rest of the house was pretty chaotic , what with my father and his cronies coming and going .
the library and the kitchen those were the places i felt most at home .
but yes , that was a bad time , those first few months he fell silent for a while , then continued .
eventually my father hired a tutor to look after me .
an englishman .
father had an idea he would give me the right sort of polish , or something .
when i was thirteen , he sent me away to an english style boarding school .
since then , for all practical purposes , ive been on my own .
shortly after , the evening came to an end and i went home , full of thoughts .
for the first time i saw certain similarities between west and myself .
we had both had odd , lonely childhoods , he more so than i .
perhaps this had worked in some subtle way to bring us together , even though the outward reasons for our association were entirely unrelated .
and despite the story of his mother , which i had mostly believed , i could not push away a thought which had recurred several times as he described his fathers personality .
in some ways he might have been describing himself .
part 2 the american volunteer chapter 10 the summer of 1914 , the last before the great war , was an extraordinarily beautiful one .
although not an outdoorsman , even i could not ignore the glorious weather .
several times alma and i escaped arkham and went to the seashore or to nearby kingsport .
kingsport is insular .
there is a lively commerce between arkham and bolton , but kingsport looks to itself alone , itself and outer ocean .
the narrow road that leads there from arkham goes nowhere else and few travel it .
no railroad goes to kingsport the sea is its only highway .
despite its remoteness and self containment , a few outsiders find their ways there artists , antiquarians , philosophers and seekers after curiosities .
they are tolerated for the commerce they generate but are not actively encouraged .
on one occasion in late july west came with us , surprising me by accepting my invitation for which i had prudently obtained almas rather unenthusiastic approval .
some years before , almas father had made her a present of a ford automobile .
i think he did it to make me feel guilty for deserting the parental home , she explained .
despite this reservation , she had learned to drive the car and did so competently .
on this particular day we loaded it with the usual picnic paraphernalia , picked up west at his home and headed for kingsport .
just before the road took a steep descent into the town , alma turned the car sharp left , onto a dirt road that led up to the cliffs to the north .
it zigzagged up a steep slope and ended at the edge of a belt of wind twisted trees .
beyond this was the broad grassy cliff edge .
it was a strange place , but with a pleasant strangeness , a world unto itself that cared nothing for things outside , neither town nor country , human or inhuman .
we could see the roofs of kingsport huddled below northward , even higher cliffs blotted out the sky .
in the distance behind us lay arkham , its many steeples putting me in mind of a celestial city .
as we unpacked the lunch , alma told us how she had come here many times as a child , on picnic parties organized by her governess .
those days were so long and so lovely , she said .
each one seemed as long as a week , from the time we woke up in the morning , all excited because it was a picnic day , until we went home in the dusk , tired and gritty but mindlessly happy .
listen to me , reminiscing like an old lady !
but its true time passes more quickly the older one gets .
i expect for old people a year must seem like a week .
i wonder why ?
there must be a law of physics , as yet undiscovered , said west .
someone at miskatonic is probably doing research on it a disciple of professor quarringtons , probably .
it sounds like the kind of thing he would have taken up .
oh , you know professor quarrington ?
asked alma , looking interested .
ive never met him myself .
i took some classes from him , years ago , west replied .
he did not seem inclined to say any more and soon changed the topic .
over lunch , our talk turned to local history and legends .
alma told us that on one of the highest cliffs there was reputed to be a strange ancient house , built on the very cliff edge , so that the front door opened out into empty space .
it was said to be inhabited by a being not entirely human .
people hereabouts say that anyone who enters the house leaves their soul behind when they leave .
when they go home they are changed forever .
in that case i should probably try to find the place , said west , smiling .
since i profess to have no soul , i should logically emerge unscathed .
what do you think , charles ?
if anyone emerged unscathed it would be you , herbert .
where is this house , exactly ?
up there , answered alma , pointing .
at the top of the very highest of the cliffs , and sometimes it can be seen from kingsport .
people say its most perilous when there are lights and music .
that and when the fog comes in from the sea .
we lazily finished off the picnic lunch , disinclined to go anywhere or do anything .
we discussed the legend of the strange high house and other stories that clung to this haunted region .
for once our conversation did not become a debate , with west and alma taking opposite sides of an issue , and i trying to maintain a friendly neutrality .
perhaps it was because they were both skeptics when it came to ghosts and the supernatural .
i had other ideas but lacked the energy to argue them .
i lay on my back looking up at the sky and the ever changing clouds .
west was similarly disposed a few feet away .
he wore white trousers and a white linen shirt , with a panama hat partly obscuring his face .
from where i lay i could just see the silvery gleam of his eyes beneath his lashes .
alma , in a blue linen dress , was looking out to sea , where the horizon dissolved into pearly mist .
i treasure this memory , for this was the last time the three of us were together .
a week or so later , as alma and i were walking homeward from the library , she suddenly said , ive been thinking of leaving arkham , charles , but i cant quite make up my mind to do it .
i keep questioning my motives , for one thing .
and what are your motives ?
i asked , trying to hide the shock i felt .
there are so many i dont feel at home here as i used to , ever since that business with papa , you know .
and im not sure i want to be a librarian all my life .
id like to earn a higher degree , in some area of science , perhaps .
or if i do keep working as a librarian , id rather be at one of the really big universities .
miskatonic is such a backwater .
or i just dont know .
im restless .
maybe its the fall coming , and all these troubles in europe .
somehow i feel i need a change .
and you would like to.. change our situation too .
i wasnt sure whether i was making a statement or asking a question .
well yes , that would be one of the consequences , but its not a primary reason .
she smiled at me .
now charles , we agreed long ago that our situation , as you so coyly term it , was never intended to be permanent .
and lately but i would miss you terribly .
i cant deny that .
its another reason i keep vacillating .
so dont start planning my farewell party yet .
we had reached the corner where we usually parted .
a sudden rush of nostalgia flooded over me and with it something else .
i laid my hand on almas arm .
ill see you later .
would that be all right ?
she looked away , began to shake her head , then stopped and turned toward me , smiling .
all right , charles , she said .
west had been considering using electricity to enhance the effect of his revivifying fluid and was now absolutely committed to finding a subject to test this .
it must be soon , charles , he said , pacing around his study .
if not , there is another course of action i can take .
but its by no means a straightforward one .
so lets hope our luck changes .
or that i can make it change , he added , in a low voice , as though speaking to himself .
the following day i was in wests cellar laboratory , compounding more of the revivifying fluid , in anticipation that a suitable subject would soon be found .
i did not realize just how soon .
the final step of the procedure was the titration , which of necessity required close attention .
as i watched the clear liquid fall drop by drop into the flask , ready to close the stop cock at the precise instant the characteristic violet colour appeared , i realized that i heard sounds as of a conversation .
the laboratory was nearly sound proof , but it was possible to hear a little of what transpired on the floor immediately above .
i took little notice at first .
patients and others were always coming and going during wests office hours , but they did not usually linger to converse in the hall .
suddenly , i heard a strangers voice speaking loudly , then a muffled yell and a thud .
moments later , west came running down the steps and into the room .
quick , charles !
come and give me a hand up there .
good , youre finished with that .
he glanced at the apparatus , where a full flask of the violet liquid now stood .
what do you mean ?
i asked , flustered .
who was that upstairs ?
the disturbance had distracted me for a second , and i could not be certain that an extra drop or two of the activating agent had not found its way into the fluid .
but west was already half way up the stairs .
i resolved to mention the matter to him at the earliest opportunity .
the front hall contained only a coat rack and a table bearing a fern in a brass pot .
now , however , there was something else on the polished floor a large sandy haired man , lying on his back .
a leather case sat next to him .
he was pale and did not appear to be breathing .
what happened to him , herbert ?
i asked .
do you want me to telephone the hospital ?
if the fellow needed medical attention , why wasnt west supplying it ?
too late , said west , in a satisfied tone that seemed completely inappropriate .
he locked the front door and said , charles , i would like you to meet mr. robert leavitt , our perfect subject .
now , help me get him downstairs .
you mean hes dead ?
no , hes having a little snooze , answered west , sarcastically .
of course hes dead !
he came to the door asking for directions .
i thought he looked sick and invited him inside .
i went to fetch a glass of water but when i came back he was on the floor .
a heart attack , by the looks of things .
hes definitely dead .
unfortunate for him , but lucky for us .
but herbert , we cant just use him !
surely someone will come looking for him .
not any time soon .
hes from st. louis , on an extended trip .
he said so before he keeled over .
no ones expecting him , at least not in arkham .
he was looking for bolton worsted mills .
i think hes an engineer or something of that sort , peddling machine parts , judging by the stuff in that case .
now , lets get on with it .
we picked up the fellow with some difficulty , because he was quite heavy , and carried him down to the laboratory , where we laid him on the table .
quickly , west began to unfasten buttons , removing the jacket , vest , necktie , shirt and undershirt , directing me to deal with leavitts shoes and trousers .
i did as i was told , but without enthusiasm .
the suddenness of leavitts appearance and the coincidence of his having a fatal heart attack in wests front hall made me dizzy .
what was i doing , helping to undress this stranger in wests cellar ?
i experienced a kind of doubling , in which i seemed to be observing myself .
i did not much like the picture .
the corpse was not yet cold and emitted a sweaty smell .
his mouth had fallen open , showing a couple of gold teeth .
his brown eyes stared into emptiness .
not exactly a fashion plate , was he ?
west said , as he dropped the mans clothing in a corner .
no matter , though .
hes exactly what we need a perfectly fresh specimen , in reasonably good shape .
and more or less educated too , if hes an engineer .
he ought to be fairly articulate .
he was as excited as i had ever seen him , face faintly flushed , eyes shining , like an angler who has finally landed a big one .
i set up the apparatus while west checked over the corpse , making sure it was ready for the procedure .
his hands danced lightly over the still form , palpating and taking measurements .
finally , he took up a scalpel and began the business of finding the blood vessels and inserting the needles .
i connected the flask of fluid i had just prepared as west made a final check of the electrical apparatus .
at a nod from west i activated the pump .
the process worked flawlessly the violet coloured fluid flowed in as leavitts blood was drawn out .
despite my familiarity with the business , i felt sick at heart .
less than an hour ago , this had been an ordinary man , looking for bolton worsted mills so he could go there to sell his machine parts .
now his blood was being drained away and soon his body would be subject to the chemical orchestrations perpetrated upon him by west and myself .
like a musician with his instrument , west hovered over the apparatus , turning a knob here , checking a connection somewhere else .
his face wore the look of utter concentration i had come to know well .
if someone had broken down the door of the house at the moment , i did not think he would have heard .
i was distinctly nervous .
i could not believe that leavitt was entirely unlooked for and expected a knock on the door at any moment .
once the fluid had been pumped into the body , we prepared to apply the electric current which west hoped would enhance the revivification process .
i held the electrodes in place and he activated the machine .
a faint humming sound filled the room .
a few seconds later , the corpse began to vibrate gently .
i knew this to be a purely mechanical effect , but it startled me nonetheless .
after a few minutes west , who had been bending over the body , his stethoscope applied to the region of the heart , looked up at me with excitement .
we have a pulse .
stop the electricity !
i did as instructed .
already a faint colour had appeared on leavitts pale face .
his features remained still , the eyes sunken , but he was certainly alive .
we had only to wait for signs of sentience to determine whether the brain was functioning .
i left west attending to leavitt and went upstairs .
i had remembered the case leavitt had been carrying and intended to bring it down to the cellar .
its contents might tell me something about its owner and whoever might be concerned about his disappearance .
the case stood where i had seen it before , on the carpet near the hall table .
but the table was bare except for the fern in its pot .
earlier , west had said that leavitt had collapsed while he was getting a glass of water for him .
where was that glass ?
i would have expected it to be somewhere in the hall , most likely on the table .
but there was no glass , full or empty , whole or broken , anywhere in the hall .
i made a careful search of the floor , thinking that west might have dropped it in his haste to help leavitt .
i found no glass , but under the table , close to the baseboard , there was a hypodermic syringe .
it was empty , the plunger fully depressed .
i reviewed again my conversation with west when he called me upstairs .
had he said anything about administering a drug to the man ?
i thought not .
he had said only that leavitt had collapsed and died while he was fetching the water .
but there was no glass , hence no water .
it was impossible that he would have disposed of the glass before summoning me .
he had been too excited .
and as far as i could remember , he had not been upstairs since we had carried leavitt down to the cellar .
deeply troubled , i returned to the laboratory , carrying leavitts case .
west looked up , clearly satisfied at the state of things .
hes coming along nicely .
i would estimate that hell regain consciousness in an hour or so .
the damnable thing is that i cant stay .
i have to operate on a patient in half an hour .
mr. leavitt wasnt considerate enough to let us know he was coming .
i suppose i should have waited .
two or three hours more or less probably wouldnt have made much difference .
but i couldnt pass up the opportunity of a really fresh corpse .
dump that case here , charles .
well deal with it later .
what i want you to do now is stay here and watch him until i get back .
just monitor the heart rate and respiration every few minutes .
if he starts to fail , give him a shot of this right here , in the arm .
and charles he paused at the door of the laboratory , if he says anything , anything at all , write it down .
i wish like hell i didnt have to leave !
he ran lightly up the stairs .
moments later , i heard the outer door of the house slam .
reluctantly , i turned to our victim , for so i could not help thinking of him .
his colour appeared nearly normal , and although his breathing was so slow as to be almost imperceptible , he was certainly breathing .
there was no sign of fading .
it appeared that west had achieved his goal at last .
the next hour passed quietly .
i checked leavitt even more frequently than west had ordered , making notes of the times and other particulars .
it seemed to me that leavitt was beginning to emerge from his unconscious state .
his eyes rolled and a few times his eyelids fluttered .
i was glad that we had put the restraints on him , remembering our terrible experience with the prizefighter .
when next i approached the table , robert leavitt was looking up at me .
despite my anticipation of this , i felt a stab of fear .
this was the first time i had been alone with a subject .
i knew how tenuous must be his hold on life i knew also how much west hoped to learn from him .
if i lost him through ignorance or error , west would be terribly disappointed .
i peered into leavitts eyes , trying to determine whether there was a functioning brain behind that fixed gaze .
could he really see me ?
hesitantly , i spoke his name .
mr. leavitt , can you hear me ?
i hear you .
who are you ?
my name is charles milburn .
mr. leavitt , please tell me what do you remember ?
his lips moved soundlessly for a moment .
nothing .
i remember nothing except music .
i was floating through music .
the angels were singing .
he smiled and closed his eyes .
i thought i was going to heaven , but they didnt want me .
what do you mean ?
i whispered .
they sent me back .
pushed me out .
i felt myself falling , falling through darkness .
so fast then i saw you .
he frowned and moved his head from side to side .
that other one where is he ?
he was beginning to get agitated .
theres no one here but me , mr. leavitt .
please calm yourself .
youve had an attack and you must stay calm if you want to get better .
am i in a hospital ?
why is this bed so hard ?
and why are my arms tied down ?
its to keep you from injuring yourself .
i felt desperate .
i just have to check your pulse now .
excuse me , please .
youre a doctor , then ?
he grew a little calmer .
i performed my simple procedures , murmuring something i hoped was reassuring .
wait !
said leavitt , just as i was finishing my notes .
i know there was someone else , not you .
i remember now .
i knocked at a door to ask for directions .
the name plate said herbert west , m.d .
he opened the door not you , a little blond fellow he asked me inside and told me to wait a minute while he got a map .
but he came back with a needle in his hand , came at me with it !
where is he ?
help !
help !
he had grown agitated once more , his face a mottled red colour i did not like .
his pulse had been somewhat rapid the last time i checked it , and that was before this outburst .
i leaned closely over him and pleaded , mr. leavitt , please calm yourself .
youre not in danger .
the danger has passed , but you must not get agitated .
i felt the situation slipping beyond my control .
this was no passive experimental subject , but an ordinary man undergoing a terrible experience .
to make matters worse , he now appeared to be having some sort of fit .
his face twitched , his eyes rolled wildly and his body grew rigid , straining against the straps that held him down .
i could not think what to do .
the syringe containing the booster fluid lay nearby but i hesitated to administer it , since leavitts symptoms were surely not those of the fading that had characterized so many of our other subjects .
for all i knew , it might make him worse .
suddenly , i heard quick , light steps behind me .
west pushed me aside and bent over leavitt .
grim faced , he seized a different syringe , filled it from a bottle , inserted the needle into leavitts chest and depressed the plunger .
leavitts face turned scarlet and he let out a roar that went on and on .
then he collapsed , limp and once more lifeless .
damn it , damn it , damn it !
too late !
west stood over the body for a long moment , his head hanging .
when he straightened up he looked more discouraged than i had ever seen him .
but my mind was still reeling with the enormity of recent events and i could not speak .
well , hes dead , west said .
i suppose we had better start up the incinerator and burn everything .
come on , charles , snap out of it .
you look as though youre going to faint .
i made an effort to pull myself together but i could not bring myself to confront west with the last words of the dead man .
his terrified reference to a needle and the fact that i had found such an implement at the scene of his collapse , along with the fact of the nonexistent water glass , suggested that my friend was a murderer .
he was a physician who had taken the hippocratic oath , but he had killed a man simply so that he might use him as an experimental subject .
i could not ignore this , as i had previous indications of wests unscrupulousness , but i remembered my uncertainty about the revivifying fluid i had compounded , which we had used on leavitt .
i thought i might have added too much of the activating agent , but in the excitement i had forgotten to mention this to west .
i think it was my fault , i heard myself saying , as though from a distance .
i made a mistake with the fluid , didnt stop it in time .
it was just when you came in to tell me about him .
i meant to tell you , but i forgot .
he looked at me for a long moment .
i could not tell what he was thinking .
then he said , this entire episode is a perfect example of why haste and experiments are not compatible .
i should have waited .
right from the first i should have waited .
after another silence he shook his head slightly and said , lets take another look through leavitts pockets and case .
there might be something that will give us an idea of how popular he is .
we must destroy him and his possessions as soon as we can .
someone might have seen him come here , but no one will ever be able to prove that he was in this house .
arent you going to notify someone the police , maybe about his death ?
i asked .
after all , he died of natural causes .
he wasnt a corpse when he arrived here .
west gave me an impatient look .
it would be madness to notify anyone .
the next thing you know there will be hordes of policemen all over the house .
and how would you explain that hole in his chest , and the incisions ?
once the police develop an interest in you its nearly impossible to divert them from it .
you have to develop a relationship with them instead , which is the last thing i want .
no , we must consign mr. leavitt to the flames .
its unfortunate , but the lost must stay lost this time .
we searched through leavitts belongings .
there was little enough of interest in his wallet and pocket book .
the case he had carried contained mainly technical literature and samples of machinery we assumed to be used in the cloth manufacturing trade .
a letter from someone at bolton worsted mills indicated that he was expected to arrive at some unspecified time during the week .
i was grateful for one thing leavitt was apparently a bachelor .
his address in st. louis was given as dempseys boarding house , hardly the abode of a married man .
i was still unhappy , though .
did leavitt perhaps have an old mother , or brothers and sisters who would never know and always wonder what had happened to him on his ill fated trip to new england ?
on two matters i insisted , to wests intense annoyance .
before we put the body into the incinerator we replaced his clothing , so that the unfortunate man would not go on his final journey naked .
with some difficulty we forced the fellows limbs back into his shirt , trousers and jacket .
i myself re tied leavitts necktie and replaced his shoes .
well , are you happy now ?
asked west .
one more thing , i said .
do you happen to own a prayer book ?
he looked at me incredulously .
no i do not , and even if i did , this nonsense has gone far enough .
lets get on with it .
no , herbert .
were not going to burn this man like so much trash .
he had the misfortune to meet his end here and we owe him something better than disposal .
so im going to give him a funeral service .
or would you rather i had a word with the police ?
it was the first time i had defied him .
for a moment i thought he was going to strike me , but then that coldness i knew so well descended over him .
oh , all right .
wait a minute .
he ran upstairs .
i remembered , too late , the syringe i had found in the hall .
would he realize i had seen it ?
but when he returned a few minutes later , i could see nothing in his face but amused contempt .
he tossed me a copy of the book of common prayer .
all right , reverend milburn , do your stuff .
but dont take all day .
feeling foolish , i fumbled with the thick little book .
the cataloguer in me noted that it had been published in new york city in 1848 , by d. appleton co. a faded book plate bore the name joseph ezekiel derby .
unfamiliar as i was with the episcopalian liturgy , it took me a little while to find the burial service .
the thinness of the onionskin paper didnt help nor did wests ill concealed impatience .
i read the prayers for the graveside .
in the midst of life we are in death the age old words sounded strangely in herbert wests underground laboratory , but i hoped that they would serve to appease leavitts spirit if it still lingered at the scene of his second death .
west watched me with a strange look on his face , amused scorn combined with a kind of remoteness , as though he regarded the inexplicable busyness of an alien creature .
at that moment , for the first time in our association , i felt a disconcerting shift in my perspective i was no longer part of we , but only i. i closed the book and laid it down .
then we carried the body down the passage to the incinerator .
west opened the door and we slid into it the mortal remains of robert leavitt , of st. louis .
after this i could not wait to get away .
west seemed equally glad to see me go .
we parted with some vague words about meeting in a few days to discuss future plans , but i did not see him again for upwards of two weeks .
early in october , a man came to my door .
he was from the boston police , he said , showing me an identification card .
he was investigating the disappearance of robert leavitt of st. louis , who was last seen on college street near the hospital .
i had been expecting a visit of this sort and successfully maintained a calm exterior .
i knew nothing of robert leavitt , i said .
i had visited my friend dr. west on the afternoon of september 15 , but i had seen no strangers in the neighbourhood , neither at my arrival nor when i left .
with this the fellow had to be content .
i knew there was no evidence linking leavitt to west .
i was certain that even leavitts gold teeth had been raked out of the ashes in the incinerator and deposited , together with the samples he had been carrying , into the miskatonic river .
why did i protect west ?
many times i have asked myself this question .
the answers formed a kind of circular dance in my mind which ran something like this once the body and other evidence was gone there was no point in telling anyone .
but why didnt i confront west immediately , or go directly to the police ?
because my own position was equivocal because , despite the doubts about west that had accumulated over the years , i was still his friend .
i could not make the transition from friend to accuser as swiftly as the situation demanded , and once the body was gone but why hadnt i persuaded him to wait before burning everything ?
all right , but how could i have made sure he wouldnt do it after i had gone ?
and there was my own responsibility for leavitts second death , because i had forgotten to tell west that the fluid was probably defective .
if we had administered a correctly prepared substance , leavitt might have fully recovered .
so it was possible that the ultimate responsibility for his death was mine there was not a night in those weeks when i didnt lie awake and run all these arguments through my mind .
i never reached a conclusion my ruminations usually ended in a strange waking dream , in which i saw leavitt approaching wests house and ringing the bell .
west admitted him and they talked .
my friends expression was solicitous but i imagined a lurking glee in his eyes .
he excused himself and returned a minute later with death in his hand .
did he look into leavitts eyes as he depressed the plunger ?
i remembered them dark grey with amber flecks , full of anxiety .
had he seen the mans terror and carried on regardless ?
i could not imagine the thought process that led to the deed .
after the visit from the policeman i thought i had better talk with west .
sufficient time had passed that i could approach him without the loathing that had come over me as i looked at the syringe i had found in the hall .
at the very least i wanted him to know that i no longer wished to participate in his experiments , now that he had crossed the border between iconoclasm and outright crime .
but first i needed to know what had been in his mind when he jabbed that needle into leavitt .
the following evening i knocked once more on wests door .
almost i hoped he was not home , but forced myself to knock a second time when no answer was forthcoming after half a minute .
the door opened .
west wore a distracted look .
oh its you , charles .
come in .
i have a visitor , but its all right .
come in .
he showed me up to his private quarters .
in the sitting room was a middle aged man with dark hair and a moustache , wearing a military uniform unfamiliar to me .
west introduced him as lt. col. sir eric moreland clapham lee , of the canadian armys medical corps .
sir eric has been most helpful in securing me a commission in his service , said west .
ill be leaving for ottawa in a few days , then on to england and eventually to flanders or france .
this was a tremendous shock to me .
so far , the war in europe had been a distant newspaper phenomenon .
everyone fully expected it to end soon .
it was thought to be no concern of americas .
west had never shown the slightest military or patriotic zeal , but he had obviously sought out this clapham lee for the purpose of enlisting in a foreign army .
i said little but thought much .
as the others finished their business and west showed his visitor to the door , i perceived a reason for his sudden interest in foreign service .
two reasons , actually .
feeling once more the estrangement that had descended upon me as i read the burial service over leavitt , i was careful to have a firm hold on my composure when west returned to the room .
well herbert , may i offer my congratulations .
i didnt realize you had suddenly grown militaristic .
dont be an idiot , charles .
i havent a militaristic bone in my body .
but surely you realize that this is the only way ill ever have anything like legitimate access to material for my experiments .
wars produce corpses , lots of them .
and before theyre killed , theyre young men in good health .
governments see to that .
only the healthy need apply for the job of cannon fodder .
well , maybe a few of them will be less than dead as a result of my efforts .
and in any case , im good at cutting and splicing .
so i can be of some use to the not yet dead , too .
and you can get away from arkham and out of the country before the investigation into leavitts disappearance picks up steam , i thought .
aloud i said , i had a visit from a member of the boston police yesterday .
i thought you should know .
west seemed unconcerned .
oh yes , he came here too .
i told him i had never seen leavitt .
case closed .
what did you tell him ?
only that i had visited here on the day in question , but i never saw leavitt or anyone who might have been leavitt .
thats all .
good , charles , i knew i could count on you .
he produced one of his beautiful smiles , but for the first time it failed to charm me .
a part of me was already in mourning but i could not simply give up and go away , turning my back on more than three years of friendship and close collaboration in risky enterprises .
i administered my final test .
but i could have said a good deal more , herbert .
i could have told him about what leavitt said to me before you came back .
and about the syringe i found in the hall .
oh , so you and leavitt had a little conversation , did you ?
i wish you had told me before .
it would have been something to set against the failure .
and you didnt write it down as i asked , obviously .
well , what did he say ?
he said you attacked him with a needle .
and before that , when i went up to get his case , i found an empty syringe under the hall table .
now charles , what do you suppose our visitor from the boston police would have made of your story that leavitt himself told you i murdered him ?
either he was conversing with you or he was dead .
you cant usually have it both ways in this vale of tears .
as for the syringe , its one of the tools of my trade , along with sharp knives and deadly drugs .
its presence in my house is hardly surprising , is it ?
if something like that turned up in your hall , now , it might be a different matter he was actually laughing !
there wasnt a trace of defensiveness in his manner , never mind guilt .
and what angered me more than anything was the fact that he treated me , his friend and associate , very nearly his partner in crime , the same as an ignorant , intrusive policeman .
if he had at least admitted the deed , said yes , charles , i killed him , but in a good cause let it be a secret between us .
if he had said this , the old magic would have done its work .
nothing would now restore leavitt to life , but this might have saved my friendship .
i suppose it doesnt matter now that youre leaving , but i came here to say to tell you that i wont be assisting you with your experiments any more .
not after this .
i admit that i probably contributed to leavitts death the second one , i mean .
thats why i lied to that policeman .
but i cant condone murder , herbert .
so this is the end for me .
i dont imagine ill see much of you after this .
oh , and good luck with the war .
he listened with no expression on his face , his eyes focused on something behind me .
i turned to go and was halfway down the stairs before he spoke again .
will you come to the station to see me off , charles ?
eight oclock on wednesday morning .
please come .
i almost kept going without replying .
but then i thought , well , one last time , what harm can it do ?
all right , herbert .
ill be there .
chapter 11 wednesday morning was misty , the scarlet blaze of the maples muted to a dull red .
i thought i was early , but west was already at the station , talking to a porter who took away his two large suitcases and a trunk .
he wore a tweed travelling coat and already looked remote and foreign .
conversation was difficult .
what i wanted to say was , do you know what you have done to me ?
you have broken my illusions , and now you are going away , leaving only the fragments behind .
but instead i chatted with false heartiness about the weather and the prospects for a pleasant trip through interesting country .
when the train was in the station and passengers were going aboard , he cut me short .
one thing , charles .
its just as well im going away , dont you think ?
since im my fathers son , after all murder in the blood , you could say .
thank you for your help all these years , and your friendship too .
it wasnt unappreciated .
i felt once more his cool , firm handclasp , then he was gone .
all around me echoed endingness , endingness .
i walked slowly to the library .
all day i was distracted and irritable .
i sent several colleagues away dissatisfied , even hurt , by my manner .
at the afternoon break alma asked outright what was bothering me .
breaking our rule , which now seemed silly , of never discussing personal matters at work , i said , west has gone to flanders , to the war .
hes going to be a medical officer in the canadian army .
already i could feel an obscure relief stealing over me , just by voicing the fact to alma .
but her reaction was unexpected .
really ?
how did he manage that ?
i wish id thought of asking him about it .
you see , ive been thinking its irresponsible of me to stay here , following my daily round of silly activities while people are killing each other over there .
ive heard there are things non combatants can do , apart from nursing , i mean .
ill have to find out more .
i was shocked , and showed it .
alma !
not you too !
no , i cant let you go !
i hardly think its for you to say , charles .
but dont be silly , its not as though im going tomorrow , or even at all .
its just something that might be worth pursuing .
you already know ive been thinking about leaving arkham .
what could be better than this ?
its a worthy cause , and a way of postponing a final decision about what to do with my life .
i shouldnt have sprung it on you so suddenly , thats all , especially when your friend just left .
she listened to my edited description of wests decision to go , and after a while i felt a little better , but only for a while , because i knew there was another ending in sight .
when alma signed up with the red cross as an ambulance driver , it was set at mid march .
on a morning as clear and frosty as that one in october had been mild and misty , i saw her off at arkham station .
cheer up , charles , she said .
ill write you , of course more often than west , ill bet .
how many letters have you had from him ?
a couple of short notes , i admitted .
but i imagine hes fairly busy .
my words conjured up a sudden mental image of west in a bloodstained white coat , bending over something unspeakable .
ive been reading that things are heating up again on the western front .
we made no promises to one another , alma and i .
it would not have been in keeping with what we had been to one another .
i was left with hopes , but not expectations .
we walked up and down the platform , talking of trivia .
i wanted this pointless interlude to continue forever , and i couldnt wait for it to end .
when it did end and the train was pulling away , alma waving to me through her window , i wished that i could reverse time , just a little .
was it something like this agonized desire that drove west in his efforts to reverse death ?
if so , i could almost begin to understand his ruthless single mindedness .
it is always more difficult to be left than to leave .
the one leaving has new situations to occupy him or her , new people and places to take in and cope with .
the one left behind , on the other hand , has only that which occupied his attention before , but without the presence of those who are no longer there .
and in my case there was besides an envy of the new adventures that west and alma had embarked upon , and which i was unable to .
shortly after almas departure i was seized by such an intense longing for the past , for her and west , that i resolved somehow to follow them .
but this was not so easily done .
america did not enter the war until 1917 of course , and i knew anyway that i would never make the grade in the army because of my poor eyesight and bad leg .
i had neither the connections nor the resolve to enlist in a foreign army , as west had done .
and anyway , i expected the canadians would have physical standards which i probably did not meet .
besides , west had a valuable skill to offer i did not think there was much demand for cataloguers .
that left services such as the red cross and other support organizations .
but i knew my motives for joining any of them were suspect .
it was not altruism , humanitarianism or patriotism that drove me , but nostalgia , which would not serve me well in any kind of challenging situation .
finally , i knew that if west had wanted me to accompany him , he would have made sure i did .
it was as simple as that .
no , herbert west and alma halsey had left the circle of the world i inhabited , as surely as if they had gone to mars .
to put myself in mere physical proximity with either of them now would achieve nothing .
the idyll was over and i had my own road to follow .
after a few weeks during which the motions of daily life felt like slogging through ankle deep mud , i found myself coming to terms with my new situation .
in their own way , my war years were as odd and disjointed as the previous three had been .
the differences were that the oddness was public , not private , and i was not as happy .
because of the involvement of my two friends , i had more interest in the war than most americans .
i read every newspaper article i could get my hands on and attended lectures by persons who professed an expert knowledge of the situation , an expertise which often existed only in their own minds .
after the sinking of the lusitania in may 1915 , anti german sentiment and patriotism began to develop .
a number of strange little societies sprang up in and around arkham , such as the arkham patriots league , the miskatonic musketeers a group of self styled practical militarists who went out and practiced marching and shooting rifles in preparation for the ultimate struggle with the hun , the arkhamites against war and the bolton catholics for peace .
i attended meetings and demonstrations of several of these groups , not from any conviction , but merely because to hear about the war and related issues made me feel , in some tenuous way , closer to my friends overseas .
it was at one of these events that i met sarah enright .
she was from bolton , working as a nurse at st. marys hospital .
i found myself next to her at a lecture and soon realized that she was rolling her eyes heavenward at exactly the same times as i was inwardly doing so myself .
chatting together at the refreshment session which followed , we found we had a good deal more in common .
for one thing , sarah was professionally acquainted with west she had , in fact , worked with him .
yes , i know dr. west quite well , she said .
hes a good doctor , though not everyone thinks so .
at least when it comes to surgery , anyway .
ive never seen anyone so fast and neat at the job .
very few of his patients develop post surgical infections .
those canadians are lucky to have him sewing up their soldiers , but its arkhams loss .
but you say some people dont think much of him .
well , of course .
when someones really good at what they do , there are always a few who are happy to find fault .
now i admit , he isnt much for reassuring the patients and cheering them up .
but i figure some of the other doctors are just jealous , and as for the nurses , some resented his insistence that everything be sterilized within an inch of its life .
and then , of course , he was totally resistant to their charms , which really got their collective goat !
yes , thats herbert all right , i said with a smile .
hes the most unromantic person ive ever met .
unromantic !
thats an understatement .
dr .
iceberg west , thats what they call him .
but i liked working with him .
you always knew where you were , as long as you were on your toes , that is .
and he might have been cold , but he was certainly ornamental .
sarah could not be called ornamental , exactly , but she was attractive enough , with her neat dark hair and trim figure .
we became friends .
i was glad to have someone i could talk with almost as freely as i had with alma .
but friends was all we were .
at this point anyway , it seemed that my desire for anything more had gone away too .
one evening we had arranged to meet outside the freemasons hall , where we were to attend a lecture with the provocative title are there german spies among us ?
i waited until the last possible minute , but sarah did not appear .
i went inside and found a pair of seats near the back of the hall .
minutes later she arrived , a little out of breath .
i couldnt get away in time , she explained later .
you see , my lady was having one of her spells , and i thought i had better stay with her until she settled down .
your lady ?
a lady i look after .
its sort of an extra job i have , three afternoons a week .
shes disturbed , i guess you could say .
some days are better than others , but its not bad , usually .
and it means a little extra money for my mother in bolton .
she still has three children at home , you see .
my dad died a few years ago , so its not easy for her .
i looked at her with admiration .
here was someone who was dealing successfully with the difficulties of her life , a life not nearly as privileged as almas or mine .
isnt it difficult , this extra job ?
i would have thought working at the hospital would be enough .
no , its not hard , most of the time .
you see , she trusts me , and ive come to know what kinds of things upset her , so i can usually tell when shes going to have a bad spell .
it doesnt happen that often , maybe a couple of times a month .
usually im just company for her .
i guess her family prefer to pay someone to be with her , so they dont have to do it themselves .
she can be quite interesting to talk to , even though im never sure whats the truth and what isnt .
she must have been a real lady once .
i think she was married , though ive never seen or heard anything of her husband .
but sometimes she speaks of a little son she lost .
about this time i had a strange dream .
i was in the back of an ambulance , although there was nothing wrong with me , as far as i could tell .
alma was driving .
the ground we were riding over was very bumpy , but it was dark and i could see nothing outside except occasional flashes of bright light .
flares , said alma .
they set them off to show me the way .
finally we arrived at a barn , rather like the one where the prizefight had been held .
alma drove inside .
i tried to get out but she wouldnt let me .
you cant walk , charles .
someone will come and get you .
someone did , but i couldnt see who it was .
strangely , they didnt need to lift me because i was floating in mid air , lying on my back .
whoever it was had only to steer me .
we went along miles of corridors , some dimly lit and brick walled , others bright and lined with white tiles that reflected the light blindingly .
then west was there , dressed in white .
i could not see him very well because i was unable to rise from my horizontal position or turn myself .
im making you a new leg , charles , he said .
then you wont have an excuse not to come out here .
i tried to protest that having an excuse wasnt the issue and i didnt need a new leg , but suddenly he was holding a leg out to me and smiling .
there must have been many other people in the room , because applause and cheering broke out .
west held up the leg as if to show it to this audience .
i felt intensely embarrassed and woke up .
all this time , of course , i continued to work as a cataloguer at miskatonic university library .
cataloguing was far more difficult and interesting in those days , before widespread acceptance of the library of congresss printed cards imposed standardization of methods .
from 1915 onward i was engaged in cataloguing a large collection of books , manuscripts and other materials donated to the library by augustus quarrington .
nominally , he had been a member of the philosophy department , but over the years his interests had branched out some would say slopped over into areas as diverse as mathematics , egyptology , quantum physics , phrenology and especially numerology .
he was a twentieth century manifestation of the long tradition of interdisciplinary studies begun by such renaissance scholars as pico della mirandola , johannes tritthemius and heinrich cornelius agrippa .
quarrington believed , among other things , that there was a secret system of numbers that united all things in the universe .
once discovered , it would yield the key to eternal life and answers to the ultimate questions .
unfortunately he died before he attained this goal , at the age of one hundred and one .
i was first made aware of his demise by a notice in the arkham advertiser over my breakfast coffee venerable prof dead at 101 .
he had written to me only a few weeks earlier , a rather puzzling letter .
my attention fully engaged , i read the article , learning more about the professors wide ranging interests and his long career as a teacher , researcher and daring theorist .
several weeks later , i was summoned to a meeting with dr. armitage , the university librarian and peter runcible , my department head .
dr. quarrington had left his entire collection of books , manuscripts and objects to the miskatonic university library , with the stipulation that they be kept together and housed separately as the augustus quarrington collection .
dr. armitage looked grim rather than delighted at the news .
were up against it this time , he said .
ive managed to talk most of our prospective donors out of these notions before it was too late , but quarrington sprang this one on us .
good god , can you imagine if we had to set up a special collection for every professors cast off books and papers the joseph brown collection on tropical liverworts , the nathaniel dixon collection on medieval siege engines , the professor bertha marshall collection on transylvanian doily knitting !
you know what i mean they all want a room with their name on it and a separate catalogue too , as though their books are too good to mingle with the common herd .
little do our prospective donors know how many of their books prove to be redundant , remarked runcible .
you remember , milburn , last year when that fellow from the classics department left us five thousand books ?
how many of them did we keep ?
fewer than a quarter , i said .
i spent the better part of a month going through them and deciding which ones to keep .
and another week at gifts and exchanges to dispose of the rejects .
ah , that would have been professor hollingsworth , said dr. armitage .
it was lucky that i managed to convince him to trust us when it came to dealing with his collection .
hed been hinting that he expected a special room , because he was being so generous five thousand books , after all !
i persuaded him that they would be more useful if they were kept with others on the same subjects .
but then , hollingsworth was a generalist .
i find its the ones who specialize in some esoteric and rarified subject that are the hardest to deal with .
but sir , i ventured , that doesnt really describe prof. quarrington , does it ?
i gather that he was interested in a large number of fields .
he believed in the interdisciplinary approach , didnt he ?
runcible let out a barking laugh .
you could call it that , i suppose .
some would say he got lost on the road between philosophy and magic .
there is one thing , though .
he turned to armitage .
its pretty unlikely that many of his books will be duplicates of ones we already have .
the question is , are they worth keeping ?
i mean , really numerology ?
its hardly a science .
perhaps not , but its a subject of interest to some scholars , said dr. armitage , if only as an example of a dubious field of inquiry .
but you have a point , runcible .
prof. quarringtons materials include a great deal that will be difficult to deal with .
no fewer than a dozen languages are represented .
latin and greek , but also icelandic and old lithuanian .
thats where you come in , milburn , said runcible .
you seem to have a knack for figuring out what to do with the unfamiliar .
foreign languages and so on .
and then there are the items that by rights belong in an archive or a museum .
quarringtons manuscripts and.. objects he studied for various reasons rocks and bits of string , and even shoes , i understand .
were relying on your experience as a cataloguer to deal with them .
i thought , unfamiliar to runcible means stuff id rather not be bothered with , but i was flattered that my superior had such good things to say about me in the presence of dr. armitage .
aloud , i said , shoes !
surely we arent going to catalogue them .
oh yes , we are , said runcible , grinning .
or rather , you are .
why do you suppose we asked you to be here today ?
yes , said armitage .
the bequest states quite clearly that everything must be kept in the miskatonic university library , and everything must be catalogued .
but sir , i objected , why shouldnt we exercise our right to select appropriate materials for the librarys collections ?
no one has ever given us things like shoes before .
they arent appropriate .
true , but in this case theres a complication , said armitage , looking at me sternly .
i suppose i should have mentioned it earlier .
you see , prof. quarrington has left the library a.. considerable sum of money along with his books and other materials .
a very generous endowment for the augustus quarrington collection .
exceedingly generous .
but the will stipulates quite clearly that the materials must be kept together , must be catalogued and must be made available to researchers .
do you understand now , milburn ?
oh yes , sir , i quite understand .
i kept quiet after that , wondering just how i was going to catalogue books in languages i had never heard of before , never mind rocks and shoes .
as i began to work with the materials , in a small room formerly used to store castoffs such as broken furniture , old catalogue cards and superseded reference works , i felt like a lone missionary sent to a small savage country , the customs of whose inhabitants were utterly mystifying and a little frightening .
i unpacked the cartons , starting with the books and progressing to the manuscripts , maps , drawings , photographs , natural objects , knotted strings and other bizarre and unlikely items .
one box did indeed contain a dozen or so pairs of well worn shoes , accompanied by a file of notes helpfully entitled shoe study .
the most interesting photographs were dozens of close up views of different peoples eyes .
i laid the images out on the table , for no better reason than to experience the odd effect of many disembodied pairs of eyes looking up at me .
as i regarded them , i became certain that one of them was wests .
there was something about the crystalline quality of the irises , the directness of the gaze and the trace of irony i thought i could see in the expression , that was very like him .
eventually i found it necessary to co opt another librarian to work with me .
alma , with her scientific background , would have been the ideal choice , but her replacement , linton adams , was intelligent enough to be able to work beyond rigid disciplinary boundaries .
it was fairly easy to classify the books philosophy , mathematics , natural history , chemistry , physics and so on .
there was another broad grouping of esoteric knowledge , which included everything from alchemy to astrology , mesmerism , phrenology and divination .
there were so many works on numerology that they constituted a category of their own .
the manuscripts were more problematic .
in the end i decided to arrange them in strict chronological order , as far as their dates could be determined .
with time , it was surprising how readily i was able to date a document from its subject matter and tone .
quarringtons early writings were fairly standard philosophical treatises .
as the decades went by they became more varied as to subject and wilder as to substance .
those written in the last years of his life approached the limits of reasonable discourse .
quarrington believed that he had found a way to test his theories by subjecting individuals to analysis using principles he had worked out over the years , then making specific predictions about the life courses of the subjects .
the predictions would be kept secret from them , of course , so as to avoid influencing their choices .
eventually the actual life events could be checked against quarringtons documented predictions .
if these proved to be true , quarrington believed , it would be possible to project from the lesser to the greater and unlock some of the worlds ultimate secrets .
a thick portfolio titled profiles and predictions contained dozens of these case histories , probably of students .
they were not named but identified by codes , to which the key was either missing or not yet recognized for what it was by myself and my assistants .
the data included information such as exact time and place of birth , family history , number of siblings , economic status , education , likes and dislikes .
some were rather peculiar , such as detailed measurements of body proportions and reactions to varying kinds of sounds , intensities of light , temperatures and pin pricks on a number of sites on the body .
the predictions ranged from fantastically detailed and specific to ominous hints .
i found myself reading them compulsively .
will be thrown from a horse while passing hoopers pond , june 12 , 1910 .
right leg broken , but will recover completely .
early marriage , five children , early death from tuberculosis .
bad business should i intervene ?
but how ?
keep her from marrying ?
impossible !
will start out as lawyer , be persuaded to enter politics .
successful .
then possibility of corruption .
may do great harm .
this woman will become a nexus .
because of her , many great things will be done , but much pain endured as well .
details unclear .
many contradictions here light and darkness in equal measure .
reconciliation necessary or self destructive impulses may follow .
i kept reminding myself that these predictions were based on rather dubious data .
without knowing the individuals to whom the prognostications referred , it was impossible to begin to investigate their validity .
but even without the identifying key , i thought this was a potentially volatile file .
i recommended that it be securely stored and consulted only by those who had a sincere and serious reason to do so .
in 1917 , with the united states finally in the war , a great change took place in arkham .
suddenly , many of the younger men were gone , their jobs taken by women .
my assistant linton adams left for france , along with a few other men from the library .
fortunately , the cataloguing of the quarrington collection was by then nearly complete .
i saw less of sarah enright , as she was kept very busy at the hospital with so many nurses overseas .
but i found myself in demand socially , much to my surprise .
with the general shortage of younger men , anything in trousers that was even semi articulate was a desirable property .
as the war progressed and american soldiers began to return with various disabilities , i was more than once taken for a returnee and my limp the result of a war injury .
admiring women asked me to tell them how it happened .
i am sorry to admit that on one or two occasions i did just that , fabricating a lurid tale from bits of information gleaned from newspapers and letters from alma and west .
the latter , i thought , would have been much amused .
chapter 12 war letters letters..
they became disproportionately important to me during the war years , especially those from west and alma .
i have them here before me , so often read that sections of them speak to me from memory .
once , i fancied that i could feel in the paper the touch of her hands , hear from the ink the sound of his voice .
but my own fingers and eyes in their seeking have obliterated these fragile ghosts .
other considerations apart , the letters contain a chronology of those years , which is why i read them now once again .
salisbury plain england dec. 14 , 1914 c.d .
milburn 23 college street east arkham , mass. , u.s.a. my dear charles , i write to you from an ocean of mud , otherwise known as a camp of the canadian expeditionary force , although it rather resembles chaos .
perhaps the sorting out process which is our purpose here is as yet invisible to my unmilitary eye .
not much to say about the ocean voyage , except that i was fortunate enough not to get sea sick , unlike many of my fellow passengers , including clapham lee .
he was laid up for most of it , and only struggled out of his bunk when we were nearly at plymouth .
two weeks in london were useful in that i was able to finish outfitting myself .
at least there are decent tailors there .
then to this muddy plain , where we medical types have been kept busy with an epidemic of cerebrospinal meningitis .
in my spare moments , i have amused myself with sociological observations .
canadians seemed quite english to me until i was able to compare them with real englishmen , after which they seemed more like us .
i speak here of canadians born in canada there is also a large number of british born canadians , fully encumbered with the traditions and prejudices of their native land .
they are unfortunately over represented in the canadian contingent .
the nuances of social class are further complicated by those of military rank i think i have managed to get them straight by now .
most of the others regard me quite amicably , i suppose because i have crafted the right sort of facade for myself , tempered with the disarming ingenuousness of the naive yankee .
the lamp is guttering and my tent mate not for long , thank god !
is muttering about lights out , so i shall dutifully douse and retire .
herbert .
boulogne , france feb. 10 , 1915 my dear charles , well , we finally got to france .
now we are waiting i have learned that in the army one spends a great deal of time doing that to discover where we are to be sent .
there is a rumour that our contingent is to join the 2nd british army on the belgian border .
i am not sure which is harder to bear lack of luxuries or of privacy .
i have a different tent mate here , not chosen by me , you may be sure a fellow from some outlandish place called saskatchewan i had to ask him the spelling , but very english for all that .
at least he seems to have had decent training in eastern canada , so we can talk shop , although i dont know what well do after we have exhausted the topics of suturing techniques , diagnostic methods and so on reminisce about our dear old home towns , no doubt .
sometimes i think of my laboratory lying unused in arkham although i tell myself i should not and wonder what the devil im doing here .
herbert .
red cross stn .
no .
3 boulogne , france may 3 , 1915 mr. charles milburn 23 college street e. arkham , massachusetts , united states of america dear charles , my first letter from france is to you .
i have been here only two weeks , but it seems like forever .
i spent the entire first week trying not to faint or vomit , and i was afraid to sleep because of the nightmares .
by the second week i was all right , and now im completely hardened , on the surface at least .
my job is ferrying casualties from the trains that bring them from the front to the hospitals here .
they dont send women drivers to the front .
that bothered me at first , but now im just as happy it is so .
it may sound heartless , but by the time they arrive here , the worst cases have died the ones that are left are bad enough .
on the days im not on duty , i explore the town with some of the others the original french town nearby , i mean , not the new one of hastily constructed huts , sheds and tents where we live and work .
boulogne itself is kind of a dull little place , but the countryside beyond is pretty , with its villages and fields .
sometimes we go on picnics , and there are lots of opportunities for me to practice my limited french .
but its not exactly a holiday .
i share a hut with five other women an english bohemian , a canadian from toronto disconsolate over a broken engagement , a would be communist from minnesota and a pair of earnest australians .
they have taken some getting used to , but i certainly wouldnt have met people like them in arkham !
each has her own reasons for being here to find adventure , to escape a dull existence , an oppressive family , an unwanted suitor .
oh , romance !
that seems to be behind so many of the reasons too much , too little , the wrong kind .
enough .
i can feel a complaint coming on , and i dont want to burden you with it .
im sure this will be a good experience for me .
but i do miss you .
alma .
i missed her too , more than i ever admitted in my letters to her .
and i was a faithful correspondent .
i wrote to her about my adventures with the quarrington collection and about the changeless changes of arkham .
she wrote to me about the people and situations she encountered in her difficult and demanding work .
i think perhaps it was in those letters that she began to find her future career .
but here i excerpt only those that bear on herbert west .
55 church street arkham may 10 , 1915 mr. charles milburn 23 college street arkham dear mr. milburn , i regret that we have had so few opportunities to become acquainted , for i suspect that we have much in common .
but it is not for everyone to walk the road that i have chosen .
it has been a long road and an interesting one , and i sense that it is approaching its end .
i had my 101st birthday in january , and that is certainly long enough for anyone .
that is why i presume to write to you now , because you are the friend of one whom i regard as my son .
i have had grave concerns for herbert west , ever since i compiled and analyzed data about him as part of my study of predictions .
as a rule , i refrain from revealing my predictions to subjects or those close to them , for fear of influencing their decisions , but in his case i am breaking this rule .
i speak of his decision to participate in this european war .
i think it may be extremely harmful for him to place himself in a situation where violent death is a daily commonplace .
i realize that as a surgeon , he is , presumably , on the side of life .
even so , i feel no , i know that a situation where many violent deaths occur may create intolerable strains on him , with unfortunate , even disastrous results .
before he can safely enter that borderland , he must undergo experiences that will be painful , even agonizing , but are necessary .
i can explain no more now but i ask you to join me in persuading him to return to arkham as soon as he can .
your presence is necessary for his ultimate well being , but he does not know this .
i do not think you have plans to join him overseas , thus it is especially dangerous for him to remain there .
do not abandon your friend .
your fates were linked when you read the necronomicon together .
three and five , and three times five again , but your returnings will be true .
do you be true also .
quarrington i did not know what to make of this urgent but irrational plea .
west had certainly not consulted me when he decided to go overseas , and i knew him well enough to recognize that any suggestions of mine for him to return would be ignored .
and , when all was said and done , had i abandoned him ?
i thought not he had not , after all , given me the chance but had abandoned me instead .
no .
1 c.c.s .
c.a.m.c .
st. eloi , belgium may 12 , 1915 my dear charles , my experience with rain and mud in england was good preparation for my current situation .
i have never seen so much mud , and hot water is a luxury i never fully appreciated until now .
indeed , i am inclined to think that hot water , not art , is the hallmark of civilization .
things began to get exciting here a few weeks ago , which is why i havent had time to write .
i managed to convince those in charge that surgery is my thing , not handing out reprimands to men who have let their feet get rotten or examining their genitals for signs of venereal disease , or seeing that rules are enforced .
so , just as the germans began attacking ypres again i was assigned to the c.c.s .
here at st. eloi .
a c.c.s .
for you civilians unused to the rampant initialisms so dear to the military mind is a casualty clearing station , the first stop between the field of battle and the military hospital or the morgue , depending on how things turn out .
it is a field hospital of the most basic sort .
charles , you can not imagine the intensity after a raid or a battle , with wounded men coming in by the dozens .
my efforts back home to keep myself in good physical condition have paid off , because all of us here have been tested to our limits and beyond .
i think my record now is three solid days of operating with only the shortest breaks between cases .
its amazing what one can do when one has to .
the casualties are sorted by type of injury and likelihood to withstand transport and surgery .
those whom the stretcher bearers have assessed as unlikely to survive are left behind in the field a callous but necessary practice called triage .
even so , when one is finished with a case , there is another ready for ones attention .
and another after him , and another .
after a cigarette break , one carries on .
no , do not imagine i have taken up smoking that is a kind of joke here everyone fall out for a cigarette .
those who do not smoke will go through the motions .
its about what we need to catch our breaths , so to speak , although we have one fellow here a frenchman , naturally who smokes while operating .
when one of the nurses objected to his dropping ash into the wounds , he muttered , ah , mais cest sterile , mademoiselle , and carried on .
i am sure you think you know the reason i decided to come here my research .
but you must realize that a c.c.s .
is not the sort of situation in which one can carry out experiments of the sort we did in arkham .
it is a lovely irony that i should be surrounded by fresh corpses which i can not utilize .
i have heard of men severely reprimanded for leaving their dead comrades equipment on the field and bringing back their bodies instead .
so a dead man is worth less than a rifle , except to his friends thus the dead must be treated with respect .
its a nuisance , altogether .
ive been hearing artillery at work for some time now , so suspect it will be a busy night .
i had better get some sleep while i can .
herbert .
he remained at st. eloi for a full year , growing increasingly impatient with what he considered an unproductive situation and with his superiors .
in his letters i began to see an attitude like the one that preceded the commencement day incident , and wondered whether this was what quarrington had warned me about .
but my hints as to the desirability of a return to arkham were uniformly ignored .
in 1916 he found an opportunity for change and seized it .
or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that he manufactured it .
st. eloi jan. 16 , 1916 my dear charles , the ebb and flow of personnel washed a rather interesting individual to our blood soaked little outpost recently , an englishman named morton who was supposedly inspecting something or other .
he had a civilian look under the thinnest of military veneers , but he is well acquainted with sir eric clapham lee , and for some reason was extraordinarily loquacious .
i already knew , of course , that sir eric is a surgeon of considerable repute in england .
that was one of the reasons i approached him in the first place .
he has great ambitions to revolutionize surgery and open a new field for enterprising individuals .
he told me a little of this on the ship from america , before he was felled by sea sickness .
morton was elusive as to details , but i gather that a precipitous descent in the clapham lee fortunes may be imminent , due to some financial disaster in the far east .
this , added to sir erics scientific zeal , may furnish an avenue for a quid pro quo .
war , i have found , induces in me a peculiar combination of ennui and anomie , which time reduces to a low cunning .
now i will tell you something before i left arkham , i worked out a way to create artificial tissue that is non specific until it has been applied to a particular place in the body .
once assimilated , it promotes exceedingly rapid healing and reconstruction of severely injured areas .
you can imagine how useful it has been here , and how many opportunities i have had to test it .
i am quite overjoyed with it .
i can put a man back together who has been very nearly destroyed .
it may be that his own mother would not recognize him , but he will be alive and unmistakably human .
i hope you understand now what i have to offer sir edward clapham lee .
if i decide to i shall reserve judgment for the present .
fondest regards , herbert .
clapham lee was only one element in the formula west himself was the other .
may 10 , 1916 my dear charles , since i wrote you last i decided that i should experience something of life in the trenches .
during the fighting near st. eloi in april i managed to leave my relatively bomb proof haven at the c.c.s .
for an advanced dressing station an a.d.s .
of course what else ?
just behind the lines , as the unofficial guest of the officer in charge there .
as it turned out , that worthy fellow met with a bad end when the station was shelled , and it fell to me to direct the removal of the wounded to a place of safety .
i found it an oddly exhilarating experience , charles , dashing about dodging bullets and encouraging the stretcher bearers , even taking a hand in stretcher bearing myself .
my brain has never been clearer than it was during this episode an effect of undiluted adrenaline , i suppose .
i was tempted to repeat the experience by getting myself transferred officially to one of these front line stations but resisted , knowing that my talents are put to their best use in the operating theater and my experimental work can not be done in the field .
of course my superiors were not happy about this little adventure , although a little thought should have shown them that my presence was a piece of good luck .
after all , briggs would have been killed even if i had not been there , in which case the outcome would have been less satisfactory .
but no , rules were violated , resulting in disciplinary procedures and a blot on my record .
fortunately , i had already written to clapham lee , hinting that transfer to another venue may be of mutual benefit for scientific collaboration .
so we shall see what transpires .
herbert what transpired was a transfer the following month .
no .
1 canadian general hospital etaples , france august 17 , 1916 my dear charles , success !
since my last letter things have changed considerably .
the powers that be decided that cooperation is the thing , with surgical expertise best concentrated in places where it can be mobilized to greatest efficiency .
and sir eric now believes that a certain obscure yankee may help him achieve his dearest ambitions .
so here i am , near this little french town where the war has sprouted a veritable city of hospitals and supporting institutions .
the countryside is quite interesting sand dunes and pine groves , a little like cape cod back home .
there is a good view from the no .
1 to the seaside village of paris plage .
opportunities abound for exercise and amusement , which somewhat compensates for our close quarters and the everlasting regulations .
despite which , i am working again real work , besides what i do in my official capacity .
for the first time i have been able seriously to pursue my revivification work .
in the warren of buildings here i was able to commandeer a hut that is just adequate for my purposes .
clapham lee was helpful in this matter although i am beginning to develop reservations about his motives .
with the abundance of corpses available here , i have already carried out a number of revivifications .
some were like obrien and hocks i think the violence of their deaths carried over .
they came to life filled with the intent to kill , and since the only thing available to be killed was myself , i had to dispatch them .
finally a use for the pistol i am permitted , as an officer , to carry .
besides target shooting , that is .
disposal of the bodies is absurdly easy .
but i have registered several successes , some of them stellar compared with our arkham results .
with my tissue regenerating substance , i was able to restore some of these men to the extent that they were able to return to active duty , slightly diminished in mental capacity , perhaps , but certainly functional .
the most fortunate were considered unfit for further service and sent home .
rejoice with me , charles , because i must perforce keep this secret from my colleagues , even clapham lee no , him especially .
there are moments when i envy your peaceful haven in arkham , closeted with your books .
herbert .
p.s .
but most of the time i do not .
my peaceful haven..
yes , i suppose it was that .
most of the time , my work was a refuge from memories and regrets .
but every now and then , i would stop whatever i was doing counting the leaves of plates in a book or holding up a page to the light to discern the watermark of the paper because of an unbidden image that had invaded my mind alma , her hair loose and haloed with light wests half smile when he had caught me out in a lapse of logic during one of our arguments .
sometimes an entire minute would pass before i returned to my work .
etaples oct. 22 , 1916 my dear charles , we have just come through several extremely bloody weeks , for me a maelstrom of life and death , to the point that sometimes i do not know whether i am trying to save a living man from death or restore a dead one to life .
it has occurred to me more than once that it may not matter .
i have plumbed their tissues in pursuit of their lives , swum in their blood , been splattered with fluids from their uttermost depths , seen things that no man not even i ?
should see hearts laboring futilely in broken bodies , brains pulsating within shattered skulls .
i have heard agonized screams and pleas for the mercy of death .
nothing can shock me now .
and yes , i have possessed their lives , held them in the palm of my hand , snuffed them out like candles when it suited me .
perhaps some day i will tell you .
and no , charles , i have not heard or seen any ghosts , rudely evicted spirits wandering about seeking their lost bodies .
but then , i do not look for such things .
one or two of them were lively conversationalists , quite argumentative .
at least one could have been called impertinent .
apropos of impertinence , clapham lee and i continue to dance a pavane still , not a tarantella .
yours in haste , as we used to say in more civilized times .
herbert .
after this , he did not write for several months .
but alma did .
boulogne , france january 15 , 1917 dear charles , happy new year to you too , except im not sure we can really call it happy any more .
it goes on and on , war without end .
i have been here so long that it seems like home .
my work has become routine , even though it is horrible .
am i callous , or is it human nature to adapt even to this ?
ive started doing some writing besides letters , i mean .
nothing much , just opinion pieces and anecdotes about things that strike my fancy .
there are so many people here trying to do their best , so many incidents that are strange , funny , poignant .
ive been sending some of my pieces to magazines and newspapers in london and back home too new york and boston .
if i could do this for a living , i would be happy .
especially if you were here too .
no , i dont mean that , of course not while the war drags on .
what i wish is that it was over and you were here .
we could run away to paris and live in sin .
i would write and you could be a cataloguer at the bibliotheque nationale .
wouldnt that be fun ?
you asked about herbert west .
i havent seen him myself , but ive heard things about him .
it seems he is getting to be famous or maybe notorious is a better word for insubordination , irregularities , automobile racing , target shooting and so on .
and he spends a lot of time going for long walks alone .
some people probably think thats worse than the other stuff .
but hes also a brilliant surgeon , gets through the cases faster than anyone and has an astonishing success rate , even with the hopeless ones .
he must be a headache for his superiors , which means he hasnt changed much since he left arkham , or only in degree , not in kind .
the quarrington stuff sounds fiendishly interesting .
but better you than i. toujours , alma .
etaples mar .
28 , 1917 my dear charles , profound apologies for being such a poor correspondent , but i have been , as you must know if you have been reading your newspapers , somewhat preoccupied .
in addition to witnessing the decimation of a generation of young men and trying to reduce it , i have managed to make something of some of them .
i leave the details to your imagination .
ive also had my hands full with sir eric .
he is growing tedious .
he has plans for a career after the war in which case he must know something i do not , for it shows every sign of lasting forever or at least until every man capable of soldiering , english , french , german and canadian , is dead .
but of course , america now trembles on the brink of entering the fray , a reluctant bride who nevertheless must bloody the sheet eventually .
so who can tell ?
but sir eric he asks me constantly for results , for facts , for details .
and i dispense a few crumbs and try to divert him .
in our conversations many of which take place on the wards at dawn , surrounded by men asleep or dying and the silent , watchful nurses i have learned that what he desires is to offer to the well heeled public a means to alter their facial features .
not merely to reconstruct the maimed which we have both done , i better than he , but to improve or merely change , for reasons of vanity or expedience .
he thinks there will be a great demand for this among the wealthy , and if there is only one surgeon who can accomplish it , that person will exercise the power of the monopolist and command large fees .
so much for science and the good of all mankind !
there is only one person , as yet , who can do this , and it is not clapham lee !
i have ended our collaboration , although he does not know that .
unfortunately , i revealed enough to him at the beginning of our association that he is inflamed by the potential .
i am running out of diversions .
ironically , the best means to put him off are furnished not by me but by the fortunes of war .
when we are more than fully occupied with our legitimate business , he is perforce less tiresome .
disengage ?
counter attack ?
negotiate ?
steal a march ?
surrender ?
you see , charles , how i strategize .
and all around me , death in life and life in death , so that i grow weary of it all even , sometimes , of myself .
cheerfully , herbert .
p.s .
i nearly forgot ive been promoted .
its major west now .
grand , eh ?
boulogne , france june 25 , 1917 dearest charles , last week i was in paris on leave .
you will never guess who i met there your friend herbert west .
he was drinking absinthe and was quite convivial , perhaps as a result .
he asked me to say hello to you for him and to apologize for not writing more often .
so here are greetings and apologies from herbert .
my duty accomplished , i must say something more he seemed a little disconnected , as though he was looking for someone to tell him who he was .
you know him better than i , in most ways , so maybe youve seen him like that before .
or maybe not .
in any case , i think i may have helped him a little .
it was , in some ways , an informative encounter .
i think he misses you more than he knows or is willing to admit .
i miss you too , and know it and admit it , but somehow arkham seems very small and far away .
remembering it , and even our good times together , is like looking through the wrong end of a telescope .
id better stop im not sure what it is im saying .
fondly , alma .
this letter seemed to imply more than it said , and i read it repeatedly , trying to extract a hidden meaning , but it eluded me .
i expected a mention of this meeting in wests next letter .
but he did not write until several weeks later a strangely uninformative letter , as though he had written it only to fulfill an obligation .
or perhaps it only seemed so to me .
he rambled on about surgical procedures , using technical terminology that meant nothing to me which was probably just as well , and referred to surgeons and nurses with whom he worked , not always in flattering terms .
he seemed to have more respect for the nurses , explaining that in the canadian army they held actual military ranks , unlike the british armys nursing sisters .
he mentioned , apropos of nothing , that he sometimes found it necessary to shoot rats among the hospital outbuildings , and closed with a token inquiry about my health .
but there was a postscript .
p.s .
i met alma halsey in paris nearly two months ago .
it has become a leave centre recently , and i suppose both of us knew an opportunity when we saw it .
she spent much of the time on the dance floor with a rather handsome fellow .
when we managed to speak of you , charles , i was discreet and said nothing to her of the miss enright you have mentioned more than once in your letters .
h. nothing more for nearly three months , then this etaples nov. 7 , 1917 my dear charles , greetings from the no .
1 , where business continues as usual , both official and otherwise .
birthday greetings , actually , to myself .
i am thirty one today .
three years in the belly of the beast or , more accurately , in its lower intestine .
i wonder what that does to a man ?
if i ever get back to arkham , you may be able to answer that question , charles .
im not sure i ever will .
another piece of good news i have finally come to terms with clapham lee .
if you recall , he was being tedious about my research , which he persisted in regarding as a collaborative effort long after anyone should have seen that it was not .
a few weeks ago he issued an ultimatum , which proved wonderfully effective .
i invited him to my laboratory hut , promising to show him the results of my latest efforts .
he has now internalized them absolutely and has no more room for doubts of any sort a remarkable transformation .
i anticipate no more difficulty from him .
wondrous are the ways of reason , and happy is he who pursues her unencumbered with irrational notions .
unreliably but sincerely yours , herbert .
17 norbury square london , england december 20 , 1917 dear charles , i hope this finds you well .
my own health has finally succumbed to two and a half years of wartime conditions .
i am staying with some friends of my mothers here in london .
i dont know when if ever ill be able to return to duty , but in the meantime its lovely to be pampered .
i left boulogne in november , when it became obvious that i was more of a burden than a help .
i suspect my difficulties are at least in part psychological a form of shell shock , maybe ?
but there is a physical component as well ill not weary you with the details .
people keep sending me letters from the war , so i am constantly reminded of it .
sometimes i wish i was still there .
not only because of the friends i left behind , but because everything matters there in a way it can not elsewhere in arkham , or even here in london .
some of the letters are from people who have found out that ive been collecting stories about peoples war experiences and getting them published .
recently i had an interesting one from a nurse at one of the canadian hospitals in etaples a curious little tale about an amnesia case that turned up in the middle of november .
the man had no identification , though was evidently a soldier .
he did not know his name , nationality , place of origin , military unit or rank .
he spoke english , was probably british or canadian , but it was hard to tell , because he had difficulty articulating .
no one could remember having seen him before .
he must have been in combat , because he had recently healed head and facial wounds which appeared to have been expertly treated , but no one could figure out where .
his mental disorder and confusion were such that he was transferred to one of the facilities in england for the care of mental cases .
as if that wasnt enough , a general disappeared from that same hospital several weeks ago .
thats right disappeared .
maybe thats the word they use when a high rank goes a.w.o.l .
hes been declared missing , but not missing in action , of course , since he was with the medical corps , not a combat officer .
another tidbit is that the nurse who sent me the story , alexa macinnis , is acquainted with herbert west , has even worked with him .
she says hes a good surgeon , but thats not all .
a third of the nurses are in love with him , another third cant stand him , and the rest are scared of him .
interesting , no ?
i must close this now .
the people im staying with are quite convivial types , and tonight were going to a play , then to supper .
they say i need a real rest , but feel compelled to entertain me .
just to have my own room , good sheets and hot baths is a wonderful rest , without anything else .
ill write again soon .
all my best , alma .
but she did not write .
weeks went by and i heard nothing from her .
i tried not to let myself imagine too much , but every now and then my mind conjured up a scenario of alma dancing with a handsome officer , laughing and flirting with him .
away from the grim business of war , why wouldnt she allow herself to be diverted ?
and what business did i have to begrudge her that ?
then , just after midsummers day , this arrived no .
3 , 175 pembroke road london june 15 , 1918 charles , a short note to let you know ill be living here for some time .
im writing a book about the war and feel i can do a better job on it here .
and im not sure im ready to go back to arkham , or to america for that matter .
dont worry about me , but dont forget me .
always , alma .
alma and west werent my only wartime correspondents .
my colleague linton adams wrote me several letters , one of which was of particular interest .
somewhere in paris september 7 , 1918 charles milburn 23 and one half what kind of an address is that anyway ?
college st. , arkham , mass .
dear milburn , well , i finally made it to paris .
after a pretty ugly time of it in the marne i got leave , and a bunch of us decided to come here instead of london .
so far its been a blast .
you dont know what youre missing , back there in arkham .
i wont torture you by describing all the fun things ive done and the girls ooh la la , theyre really something !
, but i have a message for you , believe it or not , from someone who says he was a good friend of yours back home .
its a pretty good story , actually , so ill tell it from the beginning .
a bunch of us boys from the 85th were exploring montmartre one evening .
we went into this little tavern called the jardin de la lune .
it seemed to be run by some gypsy type folks .
there were fellows playing guitars and girls dancing .
we boys were feeling pretty happy by then , but in a while it all changed .
i dont know if youve ever noticed this , but if you drink enough , there comes a point where things shift from happy and safe to sort of dangerous , all at once .
the music and dancing stopped , and this knife thrower showed up .
thats when i thought something else is about to happen .
and thats when i first noticed this fellow who said he was a friend of yours .
he was with some other guys , brits i thought , but it turned out they were canadians .
this guy was american , though , from boston , as i found out later .
he seemed a little crazy , not drunk , but crazy .
he didnt do anything out of line , not at first , but there was this look in his eyes and something about the way he talked that made me think he was on the edge .
anyway , the knife thrower .
he was another one of those gypsy looking guys , but looked dangerous , had a couple of scars on his face .
he worked with a woman his wife , maybe , but who knows ?
she was pretty but quiet intense , you could say thin with long hair .
she stood against the wall and he threw knives all around her , as close as he could get them without hurting her .
we were all yelling and clapping , when suddenly that crazy looking fellow , west , his name was , stood up and challenged the guy .
he spoke french .
the knife thrower didnt much like what he said , you could see that .
he was getting pretty worked up , yelling and waving one of his knives under wests nose .
i would have backed off , but west just grabbed the guys wrist and said something to him , very quietly .
the gypsy started to laugh but west said it again , whatever it was , and the gypsy caved in .
he gave all his throwing knives to west and told his wife to get lost .
she seemed kind of puzzled but went and sat down .
west went over to her and said something .
i think he got someone to bring her a drink .
then the knife thrower went over to the wall and west started throwing the knives , at him .
now he got them close , way closer than the gypsy himself had done .
he pinned the guys sleeves to the wall , looked like he gave him a little hair trim too , right on top .
he was really good .
and you could see that for him it was just great fun .
he made quite a show of it .
everyone was impressed , everyone but the knife thrower , that is .
he was getting madder and madder .
finally , west was out of knives .
he turned to us and bowed a couple of times .
just then the gypsy pulled one of the knives out of the wall and made as if to throw it at west .
someone shouted and west turned back toward the gypsy .
for a few seconds no one did anything .
they stood there staring at each other .
then the gypsy threw and west jumped aside , just in time .
the knife stuck in a window frame behind him .
it seems so slow , writing it all out like this , but it all happened in just a couple of seconds .
west got that knife so fast it was unbelievable .
he said something like you dont need two ears , do you ?
and threw .
it clipped off part of the guys ear , really .
i dont know where things would have ended up then , but some of the other gypsies hustled up and grabbed their guy and calmed him down .
his ear was bleeding pretty badly .
the guys west had been with were getting ready to leave , and i would have expected him to go too , but he went over to the gypsies and actually offered to patch up the gypsys ear .
i dont know what they told him , but they seemed pretty easy about it maybe this knife throwing pal of theirs made a habit of getting into trouble .
and i think they were pretty impressed with west .
anyway , the upshot was , since wests friends had left maybe they werent really his friends , i dont know , we asked him to join us .
we were getting ready to move on to a place where things were more civilized and there were more women .
but west wasnt interested .
he thanked us and said he had other plans .
just then he didnt seem crazy at all .
he came over to me and said hed thought hed heard me mention arkham .
thats when he introduced himself .
i said i was from arkham , all right , and he asked if i knew you .
when i said i did , he asked me to give you his regards .
then he took off into the night .
so here i am passing on to you regards from major herbert west of the canadian army .
strange but true .
hope all is well in the dept .
and that your brain hasnt been ruined yet by the quarrington stuff .
linton adams etaples , france nov. 15 , 1918 my dear charles , it looks as though the show is really over now and its time to make plans for going home .
i am going to give my medical practice to john billington , because im going to get into something entirely new that i perfected here .
its going to be a bit of a risk but i think i can make a go of it .
ill need my house and laboratory back , so ive told billington he has to find new premises .
i hope to be back in arkham in the next month or two .
herbert .
en route to paris nov. 30 , 1918 dear charles , ive finished my book and shipped it off to publishers .
my mad english friend nina says i need a change of scene and i want to see what europe is like now that the war is over , so were off to paris .
we hope to reach italy before the weather gets bad , then back to england next year some time .
ill try to write you .
look out for my stories !
and dont forget me .
alma i felt i had lost her all over again .
savoy hotel london dec. 3 , 1918 charles , i will be arriving at portland , maine on a hospital ship due to depart tomorrow .
expect to be back in arkham shortly after landing will notify you by telegram .
ask mrs. fisk to get my house ready .
herbert .
chapter 13 a few days after receiving this note i went to wests house .
i had been there only a few times since his departure , to make cursory inspections of the premises or to find things west asked me to send him .
before he returned , i had to decide whether to resume some association with him , or to make it clear that i no longer wanted his company .
in his house i hoped to find some trace of him that would help me decide .
i wandered through the neat but lifeless rooms , ending up in his bedroom , where i had never been before .
it was very simply , almost starkly furnished a bed , a small table , a chest of drawers and a chair .
the furniture was of excellent quality , although old and well used .
feeling guilty , i slid open a few of the drawers , but found only clean , neatly folded linen , smelling of lavender .
the bottom drawer contained a hinged leather case .
intensely curious , i opened it and saw a miniature painting of a woman , delicate faced and very fair , and a young child , probably west and his mother .
on the reverse was the date 1891 .
in that year he would have been five years old three years later she would leave her little son and flee to arkham ?
troubled , and feeling guiltier than ever , i replaced the thing in its case and closed the drawer .
i could not ignore the fact that west had committed at least one murder , but surely his dedicated service in flanders and france had paid for the death of robert leavitt many times over .
why was it acceptable for soldiers to kill each other by the thousands in the most brutal ways imaginable , but not for west swiftly to dispatch a peripatetic engineer so that this individual could unwittingly , it was true donate his body to science ?
i considered the letters he had written me .
some of them had been disturbing , but i had no way of knowing how much of what he had written was sheer exaggeration .
what were the facts ?
he had pursued the same research as that with which i had gladly assisted him for several years .
some might maintain that it was macabre or disrespectful to use human corpses as experimental material , but was it evil ?
i thought of the miracles of reconstruction he claimed to be able to accomplish .
surely this had been worth the years of secret labour ?
on his return to america west would publish his spectacular results and go on to well earned glory .
but what about the disappearance of clapham lee ?
had west had anything to do with it , or was this merely an erroneous intuitive leap on my part , suggested by obscure hints in his letters which meshed so disturbingly with almas ?
he had spoken of reservations as to clapham lees motives and of animosity between them , but he had said also that these matters had been resolved .
and yet i remembered his absolute coolness when i had accused him of killing leavitt .
and that disquieting look of calculation he had given me as i emerged from unconsciousness after my fall .
i had run out of facts .
letting my thoughts drift , i could see him , herbert west , walking alone along a windswept shore , sand dunes on one side , the sea on the other .
i watched him in my minds eye , until i lost sight of him in the distance .
i finished my contemplation with two threads i had not previously woven into my tapestry .
one was the letter from augustus quarrington .
do not abandon your friend .
and finally i could not deny the sudden leap of gladness my heart had taken when i had read that he was coming home .
herbert west returned to arkham on the shortest day of the year 1918 .
it was a raw , foggy night .
the street lights were shrouded in fuzzy haloes as i drove to arkham station .
he was nearly the last person to leave the train .
i had nearly given up , thinking that he had been delayed for some reason , when i saw yet another soldierly figure approaching .
he was silhouetted against some bright lights in the distance , so i had only an impression of someone wearing a cap , long coat and tall boots .
only when he got quite close to me did i recognize him .
i was surprised that he was still in uniform .
charles , i thought it was you , he said .
welcome home , herbert , i said , extending my hand .
i felt suddenly constrained and awkward , more so even than on our first meeting , years ago .
he seemed utterly exotic , a soldier home from the wars , not someone on whom i had ever had a claim of friendship .
he took my hand , and could it have been my imagination ?
i felt once more that rush of magnetic energy .
its good to be back , charles .
good to know arkham is still here .
i brought a car , i said .
i thought you would have baggage .
you a car ?
things have changed more than i thought .
as we passed a street light , i saw his face a little more clearly .
the same smile , the same edge of sarcasm in his voice .
he still wore spectacles but had grown a moustache .
the strangeness diminished , but only a little .
as for baggage , he said , most of it is coming later .
andre has the rest .
over here , andre .
for the first time i noticed that he was not alone .
a few yards behind us was a man , short and stocky , also in uniform .
he approached , carrying a couple of suitcases .
charles , west said , this is andre boudreau , my servant .
andre , this is my good friend charles milburn .
andre set down the bags and bowed slightly in my direction .
im pleased to meet you , mr. milburn , he said .
he had an accent , french , i thought , but i could not be certain .
the car is almas , i said as we climbed in .
she thought it would be better if it was used while she was away , so she lent it to me .
and you dutifully learned to drive , i suppose .
well , its a good thing .
amazing how tired i am .
i said little on the way to boundary street , wishing to concentrate on the business of driving .
when i had successfully stopped the car in front of wests house , he said , surely youll come up ?
i may need you to show me around , remind me of where things are .
you have no idea how peculiar this feels .
actually , herbert , i do .
to me you seem so foreign ?
i suppose i am , in a way .
for four years i have been an honourary canadian and spent a lot of time with englishmen .
its bound to have an effect .
his accent wasnt quite an english one , but he had certainly acquired an intonation that was not yankee .
in the apartment , west turned to andre and gave some directions , speaking quietly in french .
the man disappeared down the hall , still carrying the bags .
in the sitting room , west took off his coat and draped it over the back of a chair .
take a good look at major herbert f. west of the canadian army medical corps , he said .
because after tonight he will disappear forever .
he looked taller than i remembered .
i supposed it was the cap , with its unfamiliar badge , and the boots .
the uniform of khaki coloured cloth was , of course , beautifully tailored .
i noticed , without comprehension of their significance , the various insignia on sleeves and lapels and the polished leather sam browne belt .
i was not surprised that west had enjoyed the sartorial aspects of his military role .
im impressed , major west , i said , not altogether untruthfully .
im certain you set a good example to all .
showed em that not all americans were reluctant to join the fray .
ah , for me the fray was altogether different from the common soldiers .
andre would be the one to tell you something about that , but he wont because hes a man of few words now .
he tossed the cap on top of his discarded coat and went over to the liquor cabinet .
its a good thing this stuff keeps indefinitely , he said , taking out a whiskey bottle and finding some glasses .
to your homecoming , i said , raising my glass .
and to the future , said west .
have you made any plans ?
i asked .
i have indeed .
i gave billington notice weeks ago .
he can keep the practice but has to find new premises for it .
i need my office and laboratory for my new venture .
and what will that be ?
im going to specialize my own specialty entirely .
it all comes out of my old research and the work i did in the war restoration and reconstruction of the human body .
but is there much demand for that sort of thing outside of wartime ?
and why here in arkham ?
surely boston or new york would be better ?
arkham suits me .
as for demand , youll be surprised .
quite apart from the usual accidents there are what you might call accidents of birth people born with deformities of various sorts , external and internal .
and people who simply want to look differently from the way they do .
wait and see .
you mean what that.. associate of yours wanted to do ?
ive forgotten his name .
clapham lee .
ive gone beyond his wildest dreams .
far beyond .
i dont waste my time thinking about him now .
after a moment of silence which for some reason was uncomfortable , he said , you know , of course , that my father is dead .
i had heard of hiram wests death , which had been caused by a stroke several months earlier .
it was rather unexpected , i gather .
was it a shock to you ?
not altogether unexpected .
he was over seventy , you know , and had never exercised any restraint when it came to cigars and drink .
he never exercised anything except his mouth .
of course it was a shock .
but it didnt seem real , over there .
another a brief silence , then , the west business empire , nicely fattened by war profits , has been divided between my brothers , but father did set aside a rather generous portion for me .
despite our differences , i must admit that he was decent enough that way .
now i dont have to worry about money while i get my new venture going .
but what about revivification ?
i asked .
what about it ?
ive finished with revivification .
ive learned everything i can from it .
but i thought you had some success with it in france .
you mentioned several cases .
i certainly did have success , he said , with a not altogether pleasant smile .
what i mean is that i have now discovered the criteria for successful revivification .
they are rather narrow , as i suspected .
the corpse must be very recently dead less than six hours , certainly and with its major structures intact .
that limits the types of deaths from which one can return , obviously .
return in a more or less functional state , that is , and for longer than a few hours .
believe me , during the war i had opportunities to create some novel composites that fortunately were short lived .
in the interests of experimentation , you understand .
again that less than pleasant smile .
returning to the successes , of the dozen or so men i revivified who are , as far as i know , still alive , fewer than half were in full possession of their faculties .
the majority had some cognitive impairment , ranging from slight to serious .
so the question is is it better to be dead , or alive but diminished and often dependent on others for the most basic things ?
i think most people would prefer death .
but ill bet their families , the people that love them , would want them alive , however diminished , i said .
you romantic , charles .
consider a woman whose husband returns to her in a quasi vegetable state .
not only has she lost a breadwinner , she has gained , in effect , another child .
a permanent child .
and no widows pension or opportunity to remarry .
well , maybe youre right .
but were they all like that ?
no , not all .
the thing is i could not predict with any certainty the degree of cognitive impairment .
even in corpses well within the six hour limit , results varied greatly .
now , of course i knew nothing of these fellows level of intelligence before they died .
it may be that some of them did not have far to go to attain the vegetable state .
but the fact is that it would take a great deal of experimentation , involving prodigious numbers of corpses , and information as to intelligence before death , to be able accurately to predict results .
your idea of finding volunteers for the cause might be one approach , but i suspect they would be few and far between .
to volunteer for such a thing would , to many people , seem to be courting death .
im rather keen on my new area of practice , and dont want to ruin my prospects by becoming identified as the death doctor , or something like that .
yes , i can understand that .
so , no more revivifications for you , charles , with all their attendant hazards , he said , smiling .
we can be friends rather than associates from now on .
speaking of associates , who is this andre ?
your servant , you said .
exactly .
and a very good one .
i confess thats one thing about the life of an officer i would miss .
it was a piece of luck that he was able to accompany me here .
but where did he come from originally ?
is he french ?
in a way .
hes from new brunswick , canada , but for various reasons prefers not to go back there .
he was my batman and now hell be my servant valet , chauffeur , butler , whatever .
with the assistance of the excellent mrs. fisk , ill have everything i need .
im quite looking forward to civilian life .
part 3 the necromancer chapter 14 within a surprisingly short time , dr. herbert west , reconstructive surgeon , was established in the arkham medical community .
he had privileges at st. marys hospital and the boston general .
he was on several important committees .
he taught at miskatonic universitys medical school .
his days as a persecuted student and allan halseys enemy seemed infinitely distant , the misdemeanours of his student years quite forgotten .
a number of factors had converged to ensure his success his war record , the regard of dr. welburn bright , recently retired but still influential , and liberal applications of cash in the right places .
not least of all were wests capacity for sustained effort and his ability to be charming when he wanted to .
as he had predicted , cases requiring his particular talents came from everywhere .
he had referrals from all over the united states and canada , even a few from europe .
he worked out of the same offices on boundary street in which his original practice had been , except that the plate on the door now said herbert west , m.d .
consultant surgeon .
i did not see him as often as i had before the war .
he was very busy .
so , for that matter , was i. peter runcible had finally found his way into a coveted place in miskatonics administration , and i had been appointed principal cataloguer and department head .
my new responsibilities took considerably more of my time and energy .
unlike the old days , when my work had demanded no more of myself than i could spare from my doings with west , i now found myself focussed on my profession nearly to the exclusion of other things .
west and i usually met for a meal or a drink every few weeks .
i think i was the only person with whom he could talk freely about certain things .
because of our past collaboration he had reason to trust my discretion , and since i was in no way involved in his professional life , he could use me as a confidant and sounding board , up to a point at least .
shortly after his return , in a burst of extravagance , west acquired a new car .
no product of the american automobile industry , it seemed , was good enough for dr. west .
instead , he imported from france , at great expense , a hispano suiza h6b .
it has a top speed of eighty five miles per hour , he explained .
excessive , perhaps , but now that i have to go to boston so often it makes sense to have an efficient vehicle .
i hate to be a slave to the railroad timetable .
besides , speed is exhilarating .
some of the officers i knew in france held races on occasion purely for amusement , you understand .
those country lanes north of etaples were perfect for it narrow , lots of corners , peasants and flocks of sheep on the move , army vehicles , cyclists it was a veritable obstacle course and a real test of skill .
i resolved to get a fast machine as soon as i could .
soon after he took delivery of the hispano , west invited me to come for a spin to kingsport .
at first i was impressed by the luxury of the vehicle compared to my ford , and indeed was exhilarated by the speed with which we left arkham behind .
then west said , all right , now we can open her up , and accelerated sharply .
we roared down the arkham kingsport road at a truly alarming speed .
west , oblivious of my terror , talked with enthusiasm of cylinders and crankshafts and power to weight ratios , all the while shifting gears and steering with an ease that made me envious .
i was glad we met no other traffic as we accelerated out of curves and crested hills in a way that made me think we were about to become airborne .
i found myself wondering how many unfortunate sheep , peasants and cyclists he had run over in france .
very soon after we left arkham , we swept down the last hill and into kingsport , slowing and stopping with a flourish in front of the town hall .
west looked at his watch and turned to me , eyes shining .
not bad , he said .
she runs beautifully , dont you think ?
how would you like to drive us back ?
when i didnt reply , he looked at me more closely .
youre quite pale , charles !
he exclaimed .
i didnt realize youre susceptible to car sickness .
you should have told me .
look , the best cure for it is to drive .
its quite simple , and much more fun than that ford of yours , i guarantee it .
once i stopped shaking , i acquiesced to his suggestion , recognizing it as a solution to my unadmitted terror .
the car was indeed a pleasure to drive , but we returned to arkham at a much slower speed , rather to its owners disappointment .
wests hispano may not have been the only one in massachusetts at that time , but it was certainly the only one in arkham .
i suspected it cost him a small fortune each year to keep it in good running condition , but he obviously thought it a worthwhile expenditure , perhaps because he knew that citizens of the town never failed to be impressed at the sight of dr. west in his fancy french car , racing down the aylesbury pike or the highway to boston .
so , how are you liking arkham ?
i asked , after we had garaged the car and were settled in wests sitting room .
after the war and everything i guess you find it rather dull .
arkham is never dull , he said with a smile .
not to me .
under the professional polish and the trace of the exotic he retained from his overseas experiences , i thought i could see the old herbert west undimmed .
if there was a suggestion of hardness about the grey eyes , a little less sweetness in his smile , who could wonder , considering the things he must have seen ?
he rarely spoke of the war , never reminisced in the way that seems inevitable among those who have been over there .
almost all traces of major herbert f. west had indeed vanished .
he had even shaved off his moustache .
the silent andre was now firmly ensconced as wests manservant .
as he served us coffee i observed him curiously .
he spoke so rarely i still knew very little about him .
he always seemed entirely concentrated on the task at hand .
the expression in his dark eyes was one of quietness rather than servility but his devotion to west was obvious .
almost i envied my friend this gem of a servant , even as i continued to wonder about him .
there was an oddness about andre that i could not fathom .
by the way , herbert , i said when andre had returned to the kitchen , i didnt realize you number knife throwing among your talents .
a friend of mine wrote me quite a lively account about meeting you in paris .
he looked a little embarrassed .
ones foolish moments always come back to haunt one , it seems .
knife throwing when i was at the med .
school there was quite a fashion for it .
i suppose it was a sort of bravado associated with all those edged instruments we handled .
i became rather good at it .
for some reason , there in paris well , the reason was probably absinthe .
i admit i could develop quite a taste for that stuff .
just as well its illegal to import it .
but who was that fellow i gave my message to ?
i did not resist the diversion .
absinthe .
so that was the reason for the craziness linton had seen , i thought .
alma had mentioned it as well in one of her letters .
aloud i explained that linton was a colleague who had worked closely with me on the quarrington collection .
this reminded me of something .
how well did you know professor quarrington ?
i asked .
you are very curious tonight , charles , he observed , frowning a little .
i took some classes from him .
he used his students pretty indiscriminately to test those outlandish theories of his .
i have to grant that he at least tried to use the scientific method .
i was one of his subjects for a while .
he had a notion about a persons eyes being indicative of the presence of some force or other had a bee in his bonnet about forces , old q. did .
anyway , he took photographs of everyone in the class , close ups , and cut them down , keeping only the parts that showed the eyes .
i suppose mine are in there somewhere .
i thought so , i said .
those eye pictures were one of the things that made cataloguing his collection such an interesting experience .
you should come and see it someday .
were going to have a dedication ceremony for the quarrington room next week .
after that it will be open to all .
i think ill postpone the pleasure , charles .
to be quite frank , i have uneasy memories about quarrington .
youll laugh , but it was exceedingly uncomfortable , being an experimental subject .
i was part of his prediction study .
the idea was that he would develop a profile of each of us , according to his peculiar criteria .
our part was to tell him what happened to us as we went through our lives , by writing to him at least once a year .
i have to admit i found the whole thing bothered me more than i would have expected .
he asked very detailed questions about rather private things , and for once i neither embellished nor omitted .
afterward i regretted that .
i should have told him some real thumpers and observed what he made of them .
but i suppose i was rather impressed with the scope of the enterprise and flattered to be one of the chosen .
dont forget , i was only about twenty at the time .
in the end i felt i had literally given away a part of myself , and i didnt like that .
so i stopped communicating with him .
well , i said , the professor seems to have retained his interest in you .
i told him about the letter i had received .
he wrote to you , did he ?
asked west .
so you knew him ?
i met him at that university open house , the same week i met your father .
just before obrien .
quarrington insisted on seeing the necronomicon .
when i showed it to him he said some strange things , but i put them down to eccentricity .
i didnt expect that he would remember me .
but he seemed to realize that i knew you .
he took a special interest in me , for some reason .
at one time i thought he meant to make me his acolyte and successor , which was flattering , but hardly the sort of thing i wanted to do .
but he told me about the necronomicon .
and about you , too .
me ?
but thats impossible .
that was early in 1911 , less than a year after i came to arkham .
he didnt know me then .
maybe you didnt know him then , but he knew about you .
when he told me about the book , he said i would have to deal with you in order to see it .
theres more to that young librarian than meets the eye , he said .
you could do worse than ask him if you ever need someone to help you with one of your projects .
i had told him a little of my ideas , you see , and how i would go about testing them .
so you did seek me out .
i thought you just turned up at that concert , and asked me to have supper with you as an afterthought .
it was more of a before thought , he said .
i had already considered approaching you .
it just happened a little sooner than i had planned .
so quarrington had a hand in all this , it seems , i mused .
our collaboration , that is .
and everything that followed now you sound just like him , west said , sounding a little irritated .
it may be that he was trying to set up a now what did he call it ?
oh , i remember a resonant link .
quarrington thought that bringing certain individuals together could have great consequences , greater than one might expect from their separate characteristics .
dont ask me to explain it .
but maybe thats what he was trying to do .
and do you think it worked ?
i asked .
his seriousness was uncharacteristic and i wanted to tease him a little .
do you think we caused something to resonate by our association ?
well yes , i think we did , he said , smiling .
dont you ?
alma halsey stayed in europe for nearly two years after the war ended .
in addition to writing a book about her war experiences eventually published as an american girl at war , she had undertaken to deliver a series of articles to the boston post about the situation in europe from the american womans perspective .
she found this to be such a rewarding occupation that she had extended her stay as long as possible .
i was content for things to remain in a state of limbo as far as alma and i were concerned .
within myself i did not feel that our affair was entirely over , but neither did i cherish any hopes , or , for that matter , intentions .
and emancipated alma , i knew , travelling all over europe , interviewing everyone from peasant women to heads of state , would not feel herself under any obligation to me .
i had to admit that my continued state of bachelorhood did not seem to be in any way a failure or hardship .
i had interesting work , a few congenial friends , and female companionship of various sorts when i wanted it .
there did not seem to be any reason to pursue matrimony .
and i , unlike west , was not myself the object of pursuit .
with his recent professional success , the glamour of his war record and the good looks that only improved with time , west was once more eagerly sought after by the ladies of arkham society .
but he was no more susceptible to them now than before .
i was within hearing on one occasion when an articulate , educated and attractive young woman tried to hold a conversation with the elusive dr. west .
it was at some university function involving tea and cakes and sherry .
west hated occasions of this sort at the best of times , and attended only if he had to .
young lady oh , dr. west , what do you think of this new idea of eugenics ?
mr. leonard darwin in england says that marriage should be regulated so only the fittest have children .
and mr. charles davenport here in the united states agrees with him .
west really ?
im not aware of these gentlemens opinions .
young lady yes indeed .
i think its a fine idea .
people who are healthy and intelligent have a duty to get married and produce more healthy and intelligent americans .
or some other country will beat us , especially with all those immigrants theyre letting in now .
west well , im sure youll do your bit to keep america sound , miss .
young lady thank you , dr. west .
but i was thinking of you .
as one of our most respected citizens , you have a duty west oh , i realize that .
i can certainly introduce you to a number of my promising younger colleagues .
now you must excuse me .
theres someone i must speak to , and it appears he is about to leave .
a little later , west came over to me , saying , i am definitely going to stop attending these nonsensical receptions .
next thing you know ill be hauled away bodily by a tribe of marriage starved females and torn to shreds as they fight over me .
what is it , do you know ?
its a natural impulse , herbert .
we bachelors are out of step , especially you .
the ladies must think its altogether unfair of you to turn yourself out so well , to be so ornamental is one word ive heard , and then brush them off .
youre like a bird in courting plumage who doesnt want to court .
you should assume some deformity when you go out in society crossed eyes , or a limp like mine .
or at least wear something wrinkled and ill fitting .
lord no .
that would just bring them rushing over to help me , poor old fuddled thing that id be .
and up the aisle too , no doubt .
well , but why not ?
why this antipathy to marriage ?
i could ask you the same thing , charles .
im younger than you .
and poor .
and theres alma .
by two years .
and youre not that poor .
and if youre waiting for alma halsey to come back and propose to you , forget it .
that woman has too much spirit .
which shes exercising all over europe , if i can believe what i read in the post .
well , you may be right .
but just now im happy enough with my life .
marriage would be more of a change than i want .
i could say the same thing , exactly .
i am rather an odd fish , you know dr .
iceberg west and all that .
its not so far from the truth .
im not much bothered by thwarted desire .
not while i have my work .
this was the most self revealing statement i had ever heard him make on this matter .
i remembered it some weeks later at a dinner party he gave at his home .
such gatherings had replaced the drinking parties he had indulged in before the war .
he would invite half a dozen or more congenial companions and provide an excellent meal ostensibly cooked by mrs. fisk , although remembering his fondness for cooking i suspected he collaborated with her .
afterward , we would all gather in the sitting room for drinks and the vigorous debates so well loved by our host .
given the interests of those present , the subjects were often of a scientific or medical nature , but philosophy , art and politics were by no means neglected .
like the old drinking parties , these were all male affairs .
some of the fellows were bachelors like west and myself , but those who were not knew better than to bring their wives .
i thought of my reaction to the not so dissimilar situation when i had been a guest of hiram wests .
that had struck me as graceless and crude .
what was the difference , then ?
of course the level of education and culture was higher here , but it was more that the informing spirit was in some way entirely different .
on this occasion , two or three debates were going on simultaneously .
west and john billington were having a spirited discussion about something , waving their arms and interrupting each other , but in an obviously good natured way .
it occurred to me that i had never seen west in better form .
he was articulate , enthusiastic , full of energy .
hes happy , i thought , with a small shock .
for the first time since ive known him hes unreservedly happy .
so this is the life that suits him .
he is doing work that he loves and has made a place for himself in this community .
he has made himself .
yes , that was it west had made himself into what he wanted to be , despite what some would have considered intractable raw material .
and if i had in some way contributed to the result , i was content .
every year a committee of miskatonic librarians met to decide how to spend that years allotment of funds for the development of the quarrington collection .
several years of association with the eccentric professors collection had made me think of it as my collection as well .
i welcomed every opportunity to add to it and make it a living body of knowledge , however bizarre and unorthodox it might be .
i was also glad of any chance to rummage about in the bookstores of boston , antiquarian and merely used alike .
especially fascinating was the shop of humphrey villard .
he had a talent for tracking down the obscure and the rare that was quite astonishing .
in 1919 , i went to view several works on alchemy that he had assembled for my consideration .
villard greeted me with the enthusiasm reserved for a customer who came prepared to buy , with an institutional purse at his disposal .
he was a short , rotund man , balding but with a halo of curly grey hair remaining , and a beard .
his eyes twinkled at me from behind his spectacles .
the books in question were displayed in his office , which occupied a kind of eyrie on a mezzanine floor at the rear of the shop .
the main floor was given over to antiquarian or collectors books .
beneath , in the cellar , was a welter of used books , a mecca for students and parsimonious bibliophiles .
the place smelled of books , of old leather bindings and of paper gently decaying into its primal elements .
the works villard had selected were representative of alchemy from its earliest documented beginnings to the present day .
here were writings of paracelsus , the sylva sylvarum of francis bacon , the alchemical mass of nicholas melchior , the de occulta philosophia of agrippa , george ripleys compound of alchemy , as well as more recent writings such as the doctrine and ritual of magic by eliphas levi .
i made my selections quite readily .
villards integrity as a dealer made my task easy , for i found he had not over represented the quality of his offerings .
we negotiated a little over prices , but only for forms sake .
our business concluded , villard poured each of us what he termed a libation , and proceeded to extract news from my circumscribed niche at miskatonic .
for him no detail was too trivial .
he collected bits of information as eagerly as he did books , and used them as a kind of currency with his customers .
villard had followed my adventures with the quarrington material with interest .
from time to time he would try half seriously to persuade me to part with some particularly desirable item he knew to have been in the old eccentrics possession .
now he turned to me with a mischievous look on his face .
i hope you havent spent all your money , he said .
because i have something you wont be able to pass up .
a genuine piece of quarringtoniana .
now what could that be ?
i asked .
well , i dont know exactly what it is .
but it was certainly written by the man himself .
im familiar with his handwriting .
it looks as though it refers to some other body of documents .
here , have a look .
he handed me a sheaf of papers .
one look told me what it was , and my heart leaped strangely .
there were several sheets .
written in augustus quarringtons unmistakable circular hand and violet ink was a long list of names in alphabetical order , each with a date and an alphanumeric code .
surely this was the key to the file called profiles and predictions !
it would permit the matching of those documents to actual individuals .
anyone wanting to verify quarringtons predictions would find this information invaluable .
by itself , however , it was nearly worthless .
villard was watching me , a little smile on his face .
i said , well , it certainly is by quarrington , as you say .
but without whatever it refers to , its of limited use .
exactly .
thats why i saved it for you .
i thought it was a safe assumption that whatever it refers to , as you so coyly put it , is in your collection .
its not my collection , as you know quite well .
it belongs to miskatonic .
he waved off the distinction .
you organized it , you catalogued it , you know whats in it .
its your collection .
now , are you interested in this item ?
how did you happen to acquire it , anyway ?
well , you know i name no names .
lets just say that it turned up when the professors personal items from his home were dispersed .
i gather his heirs were distant relatives .
i suppose an ancient bachelor like him wouldnt have any close family .
anyway , this turned up in an envelope carefully affixed to the bottom of a drawer from quarringtons desk .
the underside of the drawer , if you follow me .
whoever found it assumed it must be valuable because of the pains taken to hide it , and so brought it to me .
what do you think ?
i think i would be interested in this item , if only because its a document in quarringtons own hand .
if i can match it up to something already in the collection it may gain in value .
how much are you asking ?
i could ask how much youre willing to pay .
i suspect it would be quite a lot .
i saw how you nearly choked on your drink when you looked at it .
those are names , now , and dates quite recent dates , too .
ill bet this is a list of people , students probably , about whom quarrington gathered data to test one of his wild theories .
its probably a missing link for you .
but im a reasonable man .
i know this list is useless without the data to which it refers , and that the data is most likely in your quarrington room , under lock and key , i hope .
and i want you to buy more books from me , mr. milburn , so theres no point in being greedy over this .
he named an entirely reasonable figure , which i paid gladly .
while one of villards assistants packed my purchases into cartons , villard turned to me and said , alchemy is a fascinating subject .
have you read much about it ?
not systematically , i replied .
why do you ask ?
because i was quite interested in it once .
oh , dont imagine me with crucibles and alembics .
im too lazy for that , and too clumsy , if you must know .
but theres a mystical side to it .
so many things can be viewed in an alchemical sense .
it fairly cries out for analogies .
and far from being a dead thing of medieval times , it was practiced , both in the practical and spiritual sense , until quite recently .
maybe still is , by some .
and it unites pre christian thinking with some of the central mysteries of christianity .
i thought about this on the way home .
whether because of my delving into the quarrington material or for some other reason , i had lately begun to suspect that there were subtle connections between seemingly disparate parts of the world .
sometimes i thought i could hold up two thoughts , as it were , one from the part of my mind that reasoned and analyzed , one from the part that felt and guessed , and see a kind of kinship between them , as though a door had opened between two sealed chambers .
chapter 15 early in 1920 , arkham experienced an exceedingly cold and snowy period that lasted for several weeks .
one night there was a loud knock at my door .
before i could respond , it opened and west came in .
he was pale and agitated .
herbert , what is it ?
i asked .
are you sick ?
yes .
no .
no , im not , he said .
its just that he took off his hat and ran a hand through his hair .
he threw the hat onto a chair and began pacing nervously .
suddenly he stopped and looked at me .
ive been to sefton asylum , he said .
what were you doing there ?
i asked .
checking on john hocks ?
dont tell me hes started to talk !
stop babbling , charles .
you dont know what youre talking about .
hocks is still there and unchanged , as far as i know .
ive kept a watch on him for years , without setting foot in the place .
i hate going there .
its like a prison whose inmates are doubly confined , first in their madness , then physically .
but with luck , she didnt know me .
that wouldnt be surprising after all damn it , now what should i do ?
i had never seen him so bothered .
herbert , i dont know what youre talking about .
you have to explain it to me from the beginning if you want my advice .
and for gods sake stop that pacing .
its making me nervous .
take off your coat and sit down , and tell me what happened .
he did as i suggested but seemed about to jump to his feet again .
so if you werent at sefton to see hocks , what were you doing there ?
i asked .
even lunatics need surgery on occasion , charles .
the asylum has an arrangement with st. marys , to the effect that any of us doctors contribute our services as needed .
they had an accident there this morning .
one of the inmates was burned while working in the kitchen .
it was nothing much i expect the fellow will be perfectly well inside of a week .
but when i was leaving , i saw someone .
and its possible she knew me .
recognized me .
who was this person ?
god help me , i was intrigued .
every man has a few secrets , west had said to me once , and i knew he was no exception .
a resident ?
given the possibilities , i could not bring myself to say inmate .
i dont know , he said , standing up and raking his fingers through his hair again .
thats the damnable thing i dont know !
but if i can guess , so can others .
your friend nurse enright , for example .
she was there .
no doubt itll be all over arkham by tomorrow .
i dont think so , i said .
miss enright is discreet and sensible .
she wouldnt talk irresponsibly .
that doesnt make any difference .
things like this always get out .
theres only one thing to do see holberg and find out more about her .
he picked up his coat and began to put it on .
youre going ?
i asked stupidly .
it appeared that he had found an answer to his dilemma , whatever it was , but not from me .
whos holberg ?
the director of the asylum .
ill see him when i go back tomorrow to check on my patient .
perhaps hell tell me something about her .
suddenly he stopped in front of me , one arm in a coat sleeve .
this is the sort of thing that cracks a mans foundations .
i dont know what you mean .
you havent really told me anything .
he ignored this .
i have to go now .
thank you for your.. attention .
when he was gone i sat for a long while , thinking and staring at the dying embers in the fireplace .
the following day sarah enright and i met for lunch at a cafeteria patronized by students and others who perforce valued cheapness over culinary excellence .
from the first i could see that sarah had something to tell me .
her face was animated and her eyes sparkled .
i have a piece of news i think youll find interesting .
first hand too , not gossip .
wait a minute , i said .
is it about dr. west ?
yes .
how did you know ?
he told me about it himself .
i think it was something of a shock for him .
i could see that .
it was quite amazing .
one second he was his usual self , you know , cool as anything , walking along next to mousy little dr. spencer .
then he saw her and changed completely , just like that .
he got white as a sheet .
and those eyes of his for a second or two he looked well , crazy .
sarah , i hope you havent , that you wont say anything about this to anyone else .
but can you tell me a little more about this person ?
is she a young woman ?
no !
at least sixty , maybe even seventy .
shes the lady i look after sometimes .
miss anna derby .
i told you about her , remember ?
yesterday i was taking her back to her room when we met dr. west .
you know , i never realized it before , but they look sort of alike .
are they related ?
this detail was new to me , and possibly crucial , but i tried not to show it .
i dont know .
why is she there , at sefton ?
well , i suppose because she isnt fit to live alone .
shes not sane .
but does she have a family here in arkham ?
not here .
boston .
at any rate , mr. robert derby hired me to visit with her three times a week .
they have the same name , so they must be related , but im not sure just how .
whos mr. derby ?
hes a judge .
he lives in boston now , but the family used to have a house on high street .
i dont know whether its been sold or only rented .
i see .
sarah , do you think this lady recognized dr. west ?
i dont know .
she was sort of upset the rest of the day .
i asked her what was troubling her , but she wouldnt say .
i was afraid shed get one of her bad spells again .
sarah had been looking after anna derby for six or seven years .
during that time her condition had remained much the same .
sarah was not certain what her trouble was , but the symptoms included long periods of silence and short ones of intense agitation , during which she had to be confined or restrained because of an urge to wander .
once or twice she had slipped away but was found before she left the asylum grounds .
in between , she had periods of near normalcy , although there was always a certain vagueness in her manner .
theres something sad about her , charles , sarah said .
its as though she lost herself somewhere .
perhaps she did , i said without thinking .
and now , it seems , shes been found .
a few evenings after this , history seemed to repeat itself in the form of another loud knock at my door just as i was beginning to think about going to bed .
this time it wasnt west but his servant , andre boudreau .
without waiting for a greeting , he burst into excited speech .
monsieur milburn , you must come now !
the doctor , he needs your help .
as if he thought i would follow him into the winter night just as i was , without a coat and in my slippers , he began to turn away , but i laid a hand on his sleeve .
wait , andre , please has something happened to dr. west ?
an accident ?
i thought of john hocks .
could he have escaped from sefton ?
no , not an accident .
he needs for you to help him , in the laboratory .
we stood and looked at each other , andre boudreau and i , in my doorway , with cold air invading my sitting room through the open door .
the laboratory !
i was surprised that west would have admitted anyone else into this secret .
i thought i was the only other person in arkham who knew about the place .
come in , please , andre , i said .
of course ill help dr. west , but i cant go out like this .
sit down and wait while i get ready .
he complied , but lapsed into silence while i got into coat , boots and hat .
further details were not forthcoming .
considering the urgency of the summons and not keen on running the several blocks to wests house , i asked andre to crank up the ford .
as i expected , his cranking was far more efficient than mine , and we were on boundary street in a few minutes .
andre hustled me down to the laboratory without ceremony .
i was surprised to see both doors to it standing open , the concealing one that doubled as shelves of wine bottles and the iron door itself .
inside , the place looked both familiar and unfamiliar .
i had a fleeting impression that it was more crowded than before , with pieces of equipment unknown to me .
but the sight of west bending over a table took me instantly to the past .
here he is , doctor , said andre .
voici monsieur milburn .
thank you , andre , said west , turning toward us .
please leave us now .
are you sure , doctor ?
said andre .
i thought we would be not tonight , west said shortly .
ill call you if i need you .
charles , come here .
andre left , but slowly and with a long look back at us as he closed the door .
i turned to west .
his face was pale and somehow ravaged , with a kind of flickering nervousness about the eyes .
as i approached him , i saw a sheet covered body on the table and the familiar revivifying apparatus standing ready nearby , complete with a flask of the violet coloured liquid .
what is it you want me to do , herbert ?
i asked .
and are you sure youre all right ?
no , im not , he said , impatiently .
as for what i want you to do , the answer is everything .
i only hope you remember how .
he turned away from me , clutching at his head with both hands .
my god , this is horrible !
he muttered , as though to some third person , but andre , obeying his orders , was no longer in the room .
what do you mean , everything ?
how can you ?
its been years since ive had anything to do with this , you know that , and why cant you do it ?
he swung around .
too many questions !
his voice was harsh but the distress on his face frightened me more than his anger .
after a brief struggle with himself , he assumed a semblance of calm but i could see that it was a forced calm .
charles .
he came close to me and made as if to put his hands on my shoulders , then dropped them to his sides .
listen carefully .
i can not do this revivification , but it must be done .
i have to do it , or rather , you have to do it , for my sake .
please , charles .
he was pleading with me , something i had never imagined .
all right , herbert , ill try , but i dont know if i can .
you can .
you will .
ill be right there to tell you exactly what to do .
everythings ready .
go wash your hands .
go on , quickly !
i could not argue with his desperate urgency .
i washed as directed and struggled into one of wests lab coats .
mustering all my determination , i approached the body on the table .
even through the sheet , i discerned several things about the corpse it was small and thin , surely no more than five feet tall .
at first i thought it was a child , but certain anatomical details told me otherwise .
the body was that of a woman .
this wasnt the first time that we had worked with a female corpse .
several of our subjects in years past had been women , but that could not be the reason for wests apparent distress .
the sex of a corpse had never deterred him i had been the one to be intimidated .
west had laughed at my modesty and insisted that the female subjects be stripped naked and treated like all the rest .
shes dead , charles .
shes not going to blush because you see her hidden assets .
i took a deep breath and prepared to remove the sheet , but before i could do so , west was plucking at my hands , nearly dancing in his agitation .
no , no , no !
leave that one alone !
he cried , and i saw then that the head of the corpse was shrouded with a separate cloth from that which covered the body .
why , herbert ?
i asked .
is there a reason you dont want me to see her face ?
because i say so , he replied .
shes my my subject , and it has to be done this way .
here , ill show you .
like this .
carefully , he folded down the sheet , exposing the neck and shoulders but stopping short of revealing the breasts .
there , now get on with it , for gods sake !
he thrust a scalpel toward me , and it was all i could do to make myself take it .
who is she ?
i made no move to begin , thinking he was more likely to be informative now than after the job was done .
he drew in a breath sharply for an angry reply , but clamped down on it with a twist of his lips .
thats irrelevant .
shes a subject .
i cant tell you any more .
physician patient confidentiality , you know .
another grimace , intended to be taken for a smile .
now come here and do it .
please , charles .
begging didnt become him , and i was short on cruelty .
i bent over the corpse .
the dead woman had not been young , judging by the loose and wrinkled skin of her neck , which made wests fit of apparent prudishness even more peculiar .
he positioned the head and showed me exactly where to make the incision to expose the jugular vein .
right there , thats right , he said .
come on , you need to exert more pressure .
steady and even .
but when the blade began to part the flaccid flesh , he abruptly turned his face away , clutching at the edge of the table .
for a second i thought he was going to faint , but i had to concentrate on the job in hand .
when i had finally inserted the first needle , i felt a rush of relief , but this was only the first of many steps .
west looked , if possible , even paler but there was a steely determination in his eyes .
he insisted on being the one to uncover the corpses lower extremities , and again he exposed only enough of the body for me to locate the femoral artery , folding and tucking the sheet carefully to ensure that the pubic area remained covered .
this time he looked away before i began cutting the skin .
it was bluish white and the texture of crepe , with small broken veins like purple hieroglyphs on parchment among sparse grey hairs .
west had told me long ago that there was no point in revivifying old people because they were too weak to sustain the forced return to life .
invariably , they retreated swiftly into death .
why , then , was he so insistent on performing the procedure on this elderly woman ?
i nearly asked him this question , but one look at his eyes , which darted from me to the corpse and back in a feverish way , made me keep silent .
once the needles were in place , west grew calmer and regained something of his old manner .
all at once , he was in charge of the proceedings and i only an onlooker .
he activated the apparatus to administer the revivifying fluid , adjusting the taps and watching the meters .
once the flask was empty , west covered the body again , adding a light coverlet over the sheets and adjusting the cloth that covered the face as though to make sure that it would not impede respiration , once it began .
i was about to ask him the reason for these departures from his normal practice , when he forestalled me .
thank you , charles , for coming so promptly and being so helpful , he said , with a facsimile of his charming smile .
i can not tell you how crucial your assistance was tonight .
you could tell me if you chose to , i thought , but knew that it would be useless to say so .
im sure youre tired now , and want to go home , he continued , steering me toward the laboratory door .
ill have to ask you to show yourself out , since i cant leave my patient alone .
at the door of the laboratory i stopped and looked at him closely .
his outward manner was calm , but underneath the surface i sensed nervousness and confusion .
he didnt seem to know what to do with his hands , and there was a distinct tremor in his fingers .
no wonder he had felt unequal to the surgical parts of the procedure .
i had a dozen questions i could not ask , but took a chance on a suggestion .
herbert , i can stay if you want me to .
you dont look well .
he hesitated and i thought i saw a flicker of relief in his eyes , quickly suppressed .
he glanced back at the silent form on the table behind us and sighed .
thank you , no , charles .
i must i can do the rest myself .
good night .
he swung the heavy door to close it , but i before it could clang shut we heard a faint , whispery voice , rising to a thin wail .
the ensuing look of sick distress on wests face convinced me .
i pushed the door open .
im staying , i said .
you need help here .
both of you .
wests face was almost as white as his lab coat .
all right , charles , he whispered .
together , we returned to the table , where by now our patient was jerking feebly and uttering incoherent sounds .
before either of us could do anything , she started to scream and thrash .
not there , not now , never , dont do it , i wont go , leave me alone , i have to go back , i hate him , hate him , hate i stepped forward , realizing that west had not used restraints on this subject .
here was another difference , but this was no time to comment on it .
the womans movements had dislodged the cloth that covered her face .
it slipped to the floor as i bent over her .
her eyes were unfocussed and her breath came in gasps .
i smelled antiseptic and something foul beneath it .
suddenly she seemed to see me and went limp .
who are you ?
she asked , sounding almost calm , but then she quickly turned her head toward west .
his face wore a look of uncertainty and questioning i had never seen before .
his lips moved as though he was about to speak .
to say that the womans face changed would be a gross understatement .
it was transfigured .
years seemed to fall away as delight dawned in her eyes and a smile like sunrise rearranged the pallid flesh .
wests smile .
for the moment it lasted , the resemblance between them was unmistakable .
lawrence , she whispered , then cried the name aloud while struggling to lift her arms from under the blanket that covered her .
west backed away .
charles , shes raving !
you talk to her .
i cant .
he turned around , raising his hands to his face .
oh god , why did i start this ?
he muttered .
the woman had almost succeeded in sitting up .
lawrence , come back !
she screamed .
i saw you yesterday ?
you were there !
they tried to fool me someone told me you were hiram , but i knew you .
id know you anywhere !
i tried to find you , but something happened and i couldnt .
come back , come back !
exhausted , she collapsed into the mess of blankets .
her eyes were closed , her mouth open , showing yellowed teeth and shrunken gums .
i had to reassure her .
hell come back soon , i promise you .
my name is charles milburn , im a friend of his , but i dont believe weve met .
friend of hirams ?
her face became grotesquely contorted , full of hate .
get away from me !
wheres lawrence ?
she whipped her head around toward west , but he backed away as though from a viper about to strike and stood several yards away , apparently paralyzed .
i dont know anyone called hiram , i said , bending closer .
what is your name , can you tell me ?
annie , anna , annalinda , anatomic , annihilated anna .
youll be a dead woman anna , unless unless .
it was less than that , ha ha !
she laughed , a loud , ringing laugh that sounded completely wrong in that underground laboratory .
her laughter stopped as suddenly as it had started .
who are you ?
she asked again .
charles milburn .
may i call you anna ?
if you like .
her eyes , swimming like bluish agates in wet , red rimmed sockets , grew vague .
who did you say you are ?
another doctor ?
enemies , doctors , nice ones you look like a doctor .
not really a doctor .
i was floundering .
what was i supposed to say to this woman , and what the hell was the matter with west ?
he had revivified her with some intention in mind , but he had not bothered to tell me what that intention was and now he was apparently terrified to go near her .
i wished sarah was there .
trying to forget that she had been a corpse not so long before , i made myself take annas hand in mine .
it was cold and bony , a bag of loose sticks and marbles .
her nails were long enough to be slightly curved and pressed into my skin .
im not a doctor , i repeated , but i want to help you .
suppose you tell me about lawrence .
maybe we can find him together .
yess , she breathed .
find him .
she pressed her lips together , emphasizing deep , vertical lines that showed her determination .
the rekindled life within her was focused entirely on one idea .
behind the grotesque and pathetic mask of age , with its wrinkles and sparse grey eyelashes , was a hot desire that frightened me .
i reached out and pulled a nearby stool toward me .
it wasnt comfortable , but it would have to do i was afraid that if i let go of annas hand , the tenuous rapport i had established with her would vanish .
i spared a glance for west .
he stood with his back against a laboratory bench , his hands clenched at his sides , watching us .
i wondered what he would do if anna survived this ordeal take her back to the asylum or give her a room in his house ?
in any case , he would have to face her .
an uncharitable part of me was maliciously amused .
anna looked at me , her eyes narrow with suspicion .
why should i believe you ?
she asked .
lawrence , i prompted gently .
who is he ?
oh , wouldnt you want to know ?
a smile , ghastly and inappropriate in its teasing roguishness , disfigured her patrician features , and the question came out in a teasing sing song , as did what followed .
lawrence dexter lorenzo , amato .
the smile lingered on her lips , transformed somehow to sweetness .
i thought hard , staring at a row of glass vessels gleaming on a distant shelf .
alembics , i thought , but of course they werent .
i had to question her carefully , because this was something precious to her .
how did you meet him ?
at the convivium .
he knew the secrets .
about the enemies .
but they got him , then they got me .
she was wandering .
i tried to steer her back to reality .
when did he tell you these things ?
how ?
when ?
where ?
why ?
you sound like the doctors that tied me up and asked me things again and again and again .
how do i know you arent one of them ?
her voice had grown shrill .
i glanced toward west again .
he was sitting on a wooden box , elbows on knees with his forehead on his hands .
i promise you , im not an enemy , i said .
gently , i let go of her hand and held both of mine out , palms turned toward her .
see , i have no weapons .
and i wont take you anywhere unless you want me to .
you were telling me about when you met lawrence .
jeremy was four years old and little hiram was seven .
and big hiram , my husband she laughed , a cracked , crazy laugh , and when she spoke again it was in the sing song voice .
he had other fish to fry .
little fish , little fish .
lots of little fish in hirams net .
she sang the sentence again , her voice quavering in a way that stirred the hairs on the back of my neck and made west press his knuckles to his lips .
i was lonely .
annas voice was calm again , and now plaintive as well .
all those women with their sorry faces i could tell they whispered about me behind my back .
but they didnt know about lawrence dexter and the convivium of the secret wisdom .
i had my own secret .
she smiled , a little cat smile .
i took a chance with another question .
what was he like , miss derby ?
lawrence dexter .
like me , she said , still smiling .
like he was my brother .
except his eyes were grey .
she closed her eyes and i saw a glitter of tears on her wrinkled cheeks .
he loved me , but hiram would never let me go .
but i had my son .
so you had three sons ?
i held my breath .
two and one , thats three .
only i had to pretend to make up to hiram .
to fool him .
im not sure i understand , i said .
another flirtatious smile .
come now , i dont have to spell it out for you , do i doctor ?
you should know about these things .
and when was he born , your son ?
he was my november boy , my little francesco a violent movement from west caught my eye .
he had jumped up and was staring at the woman on the table .
did you say francesco ?
it came out in a whisper .
my son ?
she murmured .
that was his name .
not herbert .
not west .
that was hirams name but my son wasnt hirams .
herbert !
whats wrong with you ?
i ran around the table and grabbed his arm , resisting his attempt to shake my hand off .
i dont know why you made me revivify this woman your mother , dont try to tell me otherwise but now that shes alive you have to talk to her .
you have to !
he looked at me , on his face an expression i had never seen before , as though something had broken in him .
and could it be ?
i thought there were tears in his eyes .
come on , i said , gently shaking his sleeve , theres nothing to be afraid of .
ill be right here .
no , i cant .
shes too its horrible .
but charles , ask her ask her for me why did she leave ?
i was about to argue with him , but i could see that a change was coming over our patient .
her breath came in gasps again and she was staring fixedly at the ceiling .
i hurried over to her anna , can you hear me ?
a long interval of silence while her mouth moved as though she was chewing the words .
yes she swallowed , the movement of her throat pulling at the fresh sutures in the loose skin of her neck .
anna , tell me why did you leave your children ?
this time her voice seemed to reach me from a distance , as though she had retreated down a long hallway .
lawrence dying in new york city .
she took a long , shuddering breath .
i wanted to come back , but hiram i waited , but she did not speak again .
hiram .
what did hiram do ?
i prompted .
this time there was no recognition , no conversation .
she stared at the ceiling and raved .
the words she intoned were beyond comprehension , as though she spoke in an unknown tongue .
gyazgin komgolz bagha dord , kagha weerpa dagha merdolon saava .
there was more , and it all sounded like this .
west recoiled violently , clapped his hands over his ears and almost ran to the far side of the room .
for a moment i thought he was going to leave altogether , but he stopped near the door .
annas eyes rolled back in her head , and she gasped francesco the name struck more forcibly for being suddenly understandable , like a familiar face emerging from darkness .
then she slumped back onto the blankets , apparently lifeless once more .
herbert !
come here , i think shes fainted !
no !
i cant listen to that gibberish shes spouting .
you dont know i went over to him and grabbed his arm .
shes not saying anything now , shes unconscious .
maybe dead .
come on , youre the doctor do your job !
i frog marched him back to the table .
perhaps the lifeless appearance of our victim reassured him .
it was , after all , the normal outcome of these experiments .
after a moment he went through the motions of checking for vital signs .
there were none .
he drew up the coverlet over her face and stood in silence for a long moment .
then he bent over the still form , murmuring something i could not hear , nor did i want to .
i went over to the door and waited for him there .
i did not intend to visit west the following day , thinking it best to leave him to his own devices .
the more i thought about what we had done in the cellar laboratory , the more it seemed like a grotesque dream .
i remembered the steel blade laying open the bloodless flesh , wests uncharacteristic agitation and the irrationality of the entire proceeding .
i wondered how he had managed to acquire the corpse and move it into his laboratory .
after a night of restless sleep i cancelled all my obligations for the day and drove to boston .
i visited a number of libraries , paging through bound copies of newspapers a quarter century old and making notes .
as i drove back to arkham , i was certain that west would be interested in the information i had compiled , but was at the same time reluctant to deliver it .
the next day a discreet notice appeared in the obituary section of the advertiser , of a funeral service to be held that evening for anna derby west of arkham , suddenly deceased at the age of 70 years .
anna derby west .
so he had publicly acknowledged their relationship .
i remembered that sarah was working an early shift at the hospital and made my way there instead of to my office at the library .
with luck i managed to catch her on a break .
the ordinary human noise of the hospitals cafeteria insulated us like the tumult of a storm and we were able to talk in its privacy .
sarah , i began , that woman you told me about , miss derby oh , charles , shes dead !
she got sort of upset last week .
i told you about that .
well , next time i was there that would have been two days after she was having one of her bad spells .
i couldnt get her to settle down .
a couple of days after that she ran away .
she was gone by the time i got there for my shift with her , but she didnt get very far , poor lady .
one of the orderlies found her just a few hundred yards from the gates .
are you sure she was dead ?
she wasnt , then .
they took her to st. marys , here in arkham .
they cant really cope with medical emergencies at the asylum .
but she died about half an hour later .
hypothermia .
im sorry , sarah .
then i thought of something .
when did that happen , exactly ?
her death , i mean .
let me see she thought for a moment .
late saturday afternoon , about five or six oclock .
saturday afternoon .
andre had summoned me to wests on saturday night .
i dont suppose anyone has told herbert about this dr. west , i mean .
perhaps i should oh , but he was there !
sarah looked up at me , the tears on her cheeks incongruous with her sudden vehemence .
he was just leaving when they brought her in , but he stayed with her until.. until the end .
she found a handkerchief , wiped her eyes and blew her nose .
sarah , i said , did you go into the emergency ward with her , or did you wait outside ?
i went in .
if id been just anybody , they wouldnt have let me in , but since i work here , no one stopped me .
and i felt it was my fault , somehow .
the last time i saw her she told me she had to find an old friend whom shed seen a few days ago .
the way she said friend i figured it must have been an old flame .
i tried to humor her , thinking she would forget the notion when she calmed down , but i guess it didnt work .
and dr. west what was he doing there ?
he doesnt work in emergency , surely ?
no , of course not !
i dont know why he was there .
but after miss derby died , he signed her body into the morgue and did the paperwork , listing her possessions and so on .
she didnt have much , of course , poor thing .
just her nightgown and robe and a handkerchief .
shed lost her slippers , i guess .
sarah let out a choked laugh .
but she still had that blessed walnut .
walnut ?
i asked .
the word seemed absurd .
and i had seen no such object in wests laboratory .
ever since ive known her , miss derby had this big walnut she kept in her pocket .
if she liked you , shed show it to you but shed get quite fierce if anyone tried to take it from her , so i made sure no one did .
it must have been a souvenir from her home , or maybe she just thought it was .
maybe it wasnt even always the same walnut .
there are walnut trees on the grounds at sefton , you know .
sad , isnt it ?
i agreed .
i was beginning to think the situation was much sadder than either of us had realized .
there were few mourners at the modest funeral west , of course , and sarah , one or two of the staff from sefton asylum , and a tall , pale man who was introduced to me as robert derby , the dead womans cousin .
i observed him curiously during the brief service , but could see no trace of a family resemblance between him and west .
speaking with the man later , i had an impression of a melancholy nature , and of one serious to the point of lugubriousness .
what sort of family background , i wondered , had produced this morose individual ?
perhaps it was not surprising that anna derby had wanted to distance herself from her family , even at the cost of marriage to hiram west .
at least the atmosphere around him had been one of optimism and energy , however crude .
afterward , i invited west to join me for an early supper at a restaurant i found congenial to both palate and wallet .
he had previously professed scorn for the place , but this time accepted my suggestion of venue without comment .
he seemed resigned and dispirited , a state in which i had not seen him before .
this , and the formal black garb of mourning had the odd effect of making him look both older and younger .
toward the end of the meal i figured it out his face looked worn , but the grey eyes that looked out from it were the eyes of an orphan .
i noticed something else , too .
on the third finger of his right hand , west wore a ring , an emerald in a curious setting of a style i had never seen before .
i was surprised because he never wore rings , as a rule .
he had declared at least once that rings were a bad idea for surgeons because they retained impurities , got in the way and could potentially damage the hand on which they were worn .
i did not like the idea of his being alone and at loose ends that evening , so after the meal i asked him back to my quarters .
again , he accepted my invitation in a way that implied that he did not really care what he did just then .
would you like coffee or something stronger ?
i asked as i hung up our coats .
coffee would be splendid , he said , following me into the kitchen .
i expected that he would speak of his mothers revivification , now that we were away from the public ear , but he talked of trifles while i busied myself with the coffee pot .
a book lying on my table caught his attention .
youre reading paracelsus ?
his writings on alchemy , i see .
are you hoping to augment your fortune by making gold from lead , charles ?
he smiled at me with something of his old manner .
if i were , i would surely have had to ask for your help before now , i replied .
no , its for the quarrington collection .
im adding to the books on alchemy , so i thought i had better learn something about the subject .
its really quite interesting .
he opened the book at random and read , nihil enim aliud mors est , nisi dissolutio quaedam , quae ubi accidit , tum demum moritur corpus huic corpori deus adiunxit aliud quoddam , puta coeleste , id quod in corpore vitae exisitit .
hmm .
something about death , and the body , and.. god .
thats as close as i can get , but im sure you can translate it perfectly .
he handed me the book , and to humour him , i translated .
for death is nothing but a kind of dissolution which takes place when the body dies .
to this body god has added a certain other thing of a heavenly nature , that of the life which exists in the body .
well , said west , i agree with him about the dissolution .
but the rest is nonsense .
there we part company , doctor paracelsus and i .
but why , herbert ?
i asked .
im not sure that paracelsus is referring to any kind of supernatural phenomenon here .
in fact , i think a perfectly reasonable interpretation of that statement would be that he is speaking of the thing you have been looking for all these years the key to the mechanism of life .
well , for one thing , he says that this certain other thing is of a heavenly nature .
to me that is a meaningless statement .
the mechanism of life is an earthly phenomenon .
ah , but the alchemists were intensely earthy men , i countered .
they sought the sublime in the terrestrial .
at least , they began with the earthly and sought by their art to achieve the heavenly .
exactly art , not science .
now i suppose theres no harm in artistically inclined individuals dabbling in these pre scientific ideas , using them as vehicles for their creative impulses , but thats not science and never will be .
so dont expect me to have much sympathy for these notions .
but you seem quite taken with them .
yes , i am .
they contain so much the beginnings of science and the medieval way of thinking about natural phenomena , but also a kind of spiritual discipline which is still valid today .
really ?
how can that be ?
but then , i know nothing about spiritual disciplines .
he was only politely interested , but at least the topic had diverted him from his earlier dejected state .
the practice of alchemy , in its purest form , was accomplished both in the laboratory , using matter , and spiritually within the alchemist himself .
one of its tenets is that the process can not possibly succeed if the motives of the alchemist are less than noble , a quest for material gain rather than enlightenment .
the work is necessarily complex and lengthy , requiring many repetitions , failures and new beginnings .
you know , herbert , reading about it ive been reminded of all those revivification experiments we did together .
you must remember telling me that even the smallest increment of knowledge was worth the effort , and that all the repetitions were absolutely necessary .
knowledge , yes , but well , i can see the parallel , even though i disagree with your implication .
but i fail to see the connection between what the alchemist did to the matter in his vessel and his inner state .
its a mystical connection , i replied , knowing quite well that i was entering territory he unequivocally rejected .
the idea was that by struggling through all the writings , however contradictory , and following the tortuous operations in the laboratory , the alchemist brings about both an outer and an inner transformation , that at one and the same time he finds the philosophers stone in his vessel and in himself .
the symbols are exceedingly powerful .
i suppose thats the appeal of it for me .
its a self renewal through reconciliation of the opposites in ones own nature .
you destroy your old self , as it were , by subjecting it to intense scrutiny in order to find the good qualities , and seeking balance in reconciliation .
then , speaking in alchemical terms , this first matter is allowed to rot to blackness , in a death which precedes the rebirth and transformation .
its a sacrifice , a symbolic return to the womb .
to me , thats the point of the whole thing , the giving of oneself into the mystery to achieve rebirth , and finally the exaltation of the new self in a red dawn .
i stopped , out of breath , and feeling a bit silly .
i can see youre quite taken with all this , west said again , with an ironic smile .
in fact , ive never known you to get so worked up about an idea .
are you going to ask me for a little corner of my laboratory now , in which you can pursue these transformations ?
his words were light , even gently mocking , but he frowned a little as he spoke .
i dont think that will be necessary , i said .
but i do find it fascinating .
i had quite forgotten about the coffee while i was speaking , and west , in his neat handed way , had dealt with the brew and assembled cups and other necessary items .
he picked up the laden tray and looked at me .
i suppose youre thinking of the supposed worthlessness of the unexamined life .
but what would prompt one to begin such an examination in the first place ?
im not sure , but i think it would be quite compelling , if it was necessary .
you would drive yourself to it , whatever your will or thoughts about the matter .
he looked skeptical .
really ?
and have you experienced such a compulsion yourself ?
no .
not yet , anyway .
but im certain that is how it would be .
well , i hope you tell me about it when it happens .
it should be an interesting phenomenon to observe .
we went into my sitting room , where west took his usual place in the armchair and leaned back with a sigh .
thank you for this , charles .
these past few days have been very difficult .
there was a small silence , broken only by the crackling of the fire in the fireplace .
i can imagine , i said , but i have to ask you why didnt you tell me everything right at the start ?
he looked away , as though he had a pressing need to study the prints on the wall .
when he turned back to me it was with an expression of mingled embarrassment and defiance .
i didnt actually intend to involve you at all , he said .
but when it came to the point you know , the incisions , all that i couldnt do it , and you were the only person i could ask for help .
she was your mother , i said .
it wasnt a question , and he did not answer it .
i think it must have been seeing me again that set her off , he said .
you see , i went back to sefton the following day , both to see my burn patient there and to find out more about her .
dr. holberg tried to be informative , for one of his tribe .
he spoke eloquently of hysteria , neurosis , mania , and a dozen other conditions , none of which he bothered to define in any understandable way .
for all i know , she suffered from all of them , or none .
i came away knowing little more than when i went in , except that the womans name was anna derby west and she had been a a resident for more than twenty years .
so i asked him if i could see her myself .
that was perhaps a mistake .
what did you say to her ?
nothing .
i didnt get a chance .
the fool of an attendant who took me to her introduced me .
well , to be fair , i didnt think to ask him not to do that .
so when the fellow said to her , heres dr. herbert west to see you , miss derby , she nearly fainted .
then she started to scream , which was most uncomfortable , for me at least .
i suppose thats one thing about an asylum you dont expect anything normal .
there was no possibility of a conversation , never mind a happy reunion .
he shook his head and fell silent .
why did you revivify her ?
i asked .
did you really think it would be a happy reunion ?
no , of course not !
he sounded angry .
but just imagine after twenty five years your missing mother turns up in a lunatic asylum !
wouldnt you want to find out how she got there ?
and since no one at the asylum could tell me , there was only one thing to do .
he got up from his chair and turned away from me , to the dark mirror of a nearby window .
i happened to be there when she was brought into the emergency department and stayed with her until she died .
the next step was obvious .
moving her body from the morgue to my laboratory was easy andre and i managed that quite well .
but i couldnt bring myself to touch her , to do the things that had to be done .
it wouldnt have been decent .
he turned around , his face pale .
but i had to know !
to know what ?
i asked , gently .
about her madness what it really was .
whether she remembered me , and why she left .
he shook his head .
he came back to his chair and sat down , leaning toward me .
i tried to tell myself it was only another experiment , but it wasnt , of course .
i couldnt maintain scientific detachment .
i dont think she recognized you , i contributed .
not as her son , anyway .
she thought you were someone else and being told your name was west confused her .
he stared at me .
who did she think i was ?
lawrence dexter .
who ?
dont you remember ?
she called you by that name when she saw you , before you ran away .
i ran away , as you put it , because it was obvious that she was insane .
especially that gibberish she spouted at the end .
id heard something like it before he broke off , biting his lip .
right there , one of my questions was answered and i knew there was no point in asking her any others .
on the contrary , talking with her brought up questions i thought i could find answers to , and i did .
there actually was a lawrence dexter thats absurd !
west interrupted .
she was wandering in her wits .
all that stuff she said , it was meaningless .
you of all people should have known that , after all those subjects you tried to interview years ago .
the whole thing was a waste of time .
you wont think that after you hear what i found out .
i dont know if i want to .
but he made no move to leave .
i consulted the notes i had taken .
lawrence dexter was an englishman .
i dont know anything else about him before he came to america , but in the eighties he was the head of a society of occultists called the convivium of the secret wisdom .
he lived in new york city and gave lectures all over the continent .
spiritualism and magic were quite fashionable at the time .
so he was either a fraudster or a lunatic .
what of it ?
i found notices of his lectures in boston newspapers in 1885 .
evil entities lurk beyond the curtain of everyday life .
mr. lawrence dexter of the convivium of secret wisdom reveals the truth .
discover the secrets of the ancient gods .
what did i tell you ?
a lunatic , said west .
and probably a fraudster too .
i dont imagine these revealing lectures were delivered for free .
my point , i said , is that your mother must have attended one of these lectures and become acquainted with dexter .
eventually they became lovers .
west fixed me with a steely look .
what are you suggesting , charles ?
im not suggesting anything , only reminding you of what your mother said .
they met in 1885 .
when she was talking about him she called him lorenzo , amato .
that means beloved .
i know damned well what it means !
west growled , looking at the carpet and clawing at his hair .
she said she had to make up to hiram , her husband , so he wouldnt guess , and that her son francesco was born in november .
november 1886 , im guessing .
coincidence .
his face was pale , his pupils dilated .
he looked dangerous but self controlled .
you told me years ago that your mother was half italian , and that you thought she had a love affair after your second brother was born .
she said she and dexter looked alike .
that must mean that he was blonde with grey eyes , like you .
when she saw you in sefton she thought you were him , and the other night too .
your middle name is francis .
ill bet she called you francesco .
thats too many coincidences .
he jumped up and took another turn around the room .
i was half afraid that he was going to take a swipe at me , but he did not .
so now i have a long lost twin brother called francesco .
i suppose hes the one i lied about to you all those years ago , and now hes come back to haunt me .
what do you mean ?
just lately ive found myself hypothesizing about this outcome or that outcome in a way i never have before , exactly as though theres a little pest plucking at my sleeve , saying , but have you thought about this ?
what if this happens ?
or that ?
its maddening .
how do you explain it ?
i dont .
charles , you have to understand this i was a child of eight when my mother disappeared .
after she left , it was as though i tied off all the blood vessels that connected me to her , as one does when amputating a limb .
a part of me atrophied and died after that , and yet i managed to live quite successfully , by some measures .
you know that .
but now its as though someone has grafted onto me that stranger that was my young self , and i cant do anything without him popping up and saying , here i am , what are you going to do about me ?
he laughed bitterly .
now you tell me that im the offspring of a madwoman and a man who believed in some sort of lunatic theory , and so was probably himself unbalanced .
and i grew up in the house of a criminal .
on the whole , though , i would rather that hiram west was my father .
he may have been a murderer , but at least he was sane .
as sane as any murderer , i suppose .
he ignored this .
for years i thought hed killed her .
i dont know where i got the idea bits of things i overheard and saw , i suppose .
they must have formed themselves into a shape of horror in my mind .
he stopped pacing and looked at me .
so what else did you find out about this dexter ?
he died in august of 1895 , in new york .
someone shot him , but it seems that no one was charged with his murder .
maybe it wasnt murder , only an accident .
he lived for several days but was never able to give a statement .
august of 95 , west said , slowly .
thats when my mother left .
i was eight .
another coincidence ?
i asked , carefully .
all right , charles , west said , the dates are damnably suggestive , i agree .
i suppose she might have gone to dexter when she heard he was dying .
perhaps she intended to leave hiram and send for me later .
i dont know .
but something went wrong and she ended up in sefton .
she said things that suggested hiram had something to do with that , and with dexters death as well .
west swiped a hand over his face .
i wouldnt put it past him .
by the way , did you say you had something stronger than coffee ?
i fetched some whiskey and poured two glasses .
sarah enright said she was paid by judge derby to visit with your mother at sefton , and when he died that responsibility went to robert derby .
he was at the funeral service , wasnt he ?
yes , hes a cousin .
his father was my mothers uncle .
there has never been any warmth and friendliness between the wests and the derbys .
i can understand why , now .
well charles , he continued , with a forced smile , didnt i say this would crack my foundations ?
why ?
after all , you are what you are , regardless of who your parents were .
and you know you can trust me to keep all this to myself .
especially , i thought , given my role in the revivification of anna derby west .
now i was as culpable as her son , when it came to offering an indignity to a dead body .
well , and what am i , then ?
asked west .
do you know ?
a man is the product of two things the physical inheritance from his parents , and his upbringing .
my upbringing was delivered by hiram west and the tutors and others hired by him .
but the other ?
theres a theory , propounded by dr. henry maudsley , a british psychiatrist , that mental as well as physical disease can be transmitted from parent to child .
so while i may not be mad now , its very likely that i am infected with abnormality .
but you have no reason to think so , do you ?
i persisted .
apart from these ideas about inheritance , i mean ?
there have been times when i have found myself considering the possibility , he said , slowly .
in france during the war , for example .
no , i cant rule it out .
i remembered some of his letters and a chill settled over my heart .
it was as though he had laid aside his brilliant veneer and revealed darkness beneath .
but that wasnt exactly a normal situation , surely ?
for anyone that was there i mean , not only you .
and dont forget that im the son of a suicide , but i dont expect that ill be driven to do what he did .
thats not the same .
suicide can actually be a rational choice , in some situations .
and your father , from what youve told me , was a perfectly ordinary , competent individual until his bank failed .
this is insidious .
and probably inescapable .
but nothing about you has changed since you found out about all this , i said .
youre exactly the same person you were before .
the person who murdered robert leavitt , my mind supplied helpfully .
the person i was before was living in a state of blessed ignorance .
then i saw a clear road before me .
now its full of hidden pits .
youll think me ungenerous and selfish , but its probably just as well she expired before she was able to say more .
other considerations aside , explaining her recovery would have been an awkward business , since several people were there when i declared her dead .
he was groping for his usual ironic manner , like a man trying to find a weapon in the dark , but it eluded him .
it was time to change the subject .
i saw that he was fretting with the ring i had noticed earlier , turning it around and around on his finger , as though it bothered him .
thats a very distinctive ring , i said .
ive never noticed it before .
thats because ive never worn it before .
but it seems appropriate now .
you see , it came from her .
my mother .
he took it off and passed it to me .
i looked at the ring closely , turning it around under the light .
the emerald was quite large and very fine , with a spark of fire in its clear green depths .
but it was the setting that i found most puzzling .
i could not guess of what metal it was made some curious alloy , very pale gold in colour , heavy and hard , yet with a sheen that was almost pearly .
even more peculiar were the designs carved into the metal .
they had been executed with great skill and precision .
the motifs appeared to be geometrical in nature , but i could not begin to guess from what cultural or artistic tradition they emanated .
the intricacy and grace of the interweaving lines and curves spoke of a highly evolved technique , but to me , at least , they were utterly unfamiliar .
do you know where this came from ?
i asked , at length .
where did your mother get it ?
i really dont know , he said .
i doubt that its an heirloom of the derby family .
theres nothing of the solid yankee about it , is there ?
but then , i seem to remember some of the old derbys were seafarers of one sort or another .
it may be that one of them brought it back from some distant place .
he did not seem particularly interested in the ring and i did not persist in questioning him about it .
he stared at the floor for a moment , then looked up at me and said , quarrington predicted that i would go mad , you know .
thats another reason i wasnt keen on him toward the end .
what do you mean ?
it was that big prediction study of his .
you know the one , i mentioned it a while ago .
mostly he didnt tell us subjects what he had predicted , so it wouldnt influence us and skew the results , but with me he let one detail slip .
it surprised him so much that he forgot himself .
i remember him poring over the notes he had made about me .
he closed his eyes and looked like he was in pain or something .
then he looked at me and said you will die twice , herbert west .
after that he clammed up .
at the time i didnt worry about it much .
at twenty or nineteen , or whatever age i was then , death seemed so remote that it didnt matter whether it would be once or twice .
but ive thought about it since and decided he was telling me i would go insane the death of the mind , you see , before the death of the body .
he liked to speak in metaphors , q. did .
i leaned closer to him .
you havent asked for my advice , but im going to give it anyway .
your mothers life was sad , even tragic , but it was her life and now its over .
your father is dead too , whoever he was .
forget them .
well , not entirely , but theres no reason to brood about them like this .
as for all this stuff about madness , theres no point in thinking about that , either .
you have work to do , work that you love , so do it .
these other things will look after themselves .
if youre infected with madness , as you say , worrying about it wont make any difference .
and if youre not , then its madness to worry .
and if you do go mad , ill make sure youre treated well .
in that case , charles , the kindest thing you could do would be to shoot me .
the very thought of becoming one of those dribbling idiots at sefton fills me with horror .
but thank you , dr. milburn , for your opinion .
i shall surely consider it .
theres a practicality about it that appeals to me .
he got up to leave and i saw him to the door .
quarrington wrote me a letter shortly before his death , when i was in flanders , full of dire warnings .
he warned me not to lose sight of you , charles , that bad things would happen if i did .
ive taken that much of his advice anyway .
youre the only one i could talk with about all this .
i recognized in myself a desire to comfort him , but didnt know how , so i put my arms around him in a brief , awkward embrace , which he neither resisted nor reciprocated .
he felt frailer than he looked .
itll be all right , herbert , i muttered , and let him go .
i listened to his footsteps receding down the stairs and something i had read recently came back to me , unbidden and complete .
a cryptic sentence from paracelsus he who would enter the kingdom of god must first enter with his body into his mother and there die .
later , i realized that i had forgotten to ask west when his mother had given him the emerald ring .
had it been when he was a child , before her departure from the household ?
or during the brief encounter before her death ?
it didnt really matter , but it bothered me , like a loose thread in a garment or a chip in the rim of a cup .
that night , i dreamt the question and an answer .
west told me that she had not given him the ring as such , but only a large walnut .
she handed it to me and said , this is for you .
he would have wanted you to have it .
and i put it in my pocket and forgot it .
but later , after she was gone , i cracked it open and found the ring .
like this .
he opened his hand , disclosing a walnut .
then he clenched his fist on it , producing a cracking sound , and opened his hand again , like a conjuror .
on his palm lay the emerald ring .
west laughed .
it was only a walnut , he said .
i knew , of course , that this was a dream .
but it lodged in my memory like the truth , and i never asked him for another .
despite my sympathy for him , wests revivification of his mother struck me as grotesque and pathetic .
i have read a good deal since then about the theories regarding heredity that were being propounded at the time .
west had probably been aware of them when they were newly in vogue , and for some reason they had resonated strongly in his rather arid materialistic philosophy , which allowed no room for the unexplained .
when he discovered that his mother was an asylum inmate , his fear of hereditary insanity must have prompted the desperate urge to interrogate her unfortunate corpse after her sudden death .
moreover , by this time i had begun to suspect something else about him .
there was only one explanation for certain of his idiosyncrasies .
i had read my plato .
i knew what sort of love was discussed in phaedrus .
i knew also that in our time such individuals were considered by many to be hereditary degenerates .
the knowledge that he himself harboured this abnormality must have been a heavy burden for him .
the thing that made me almost certain was an incident which took place at one of wests dinner parties .
things were at the stage where most of the guests were in a state of animated eloquence .
john billington was playing the piano and west was singing a duet of some sort with one of the others , rather badly .
i had been talking with a new member of wests circle , one who was unusual in being older than most of us , and without a medical connection .
he was a professor of physics , james williams by name .
as west and his companion concluded their performance to cheers and applause , i became aware that williams was no longer attending to what i was saying .
neither was he cheering or applauding .
he was gazing with a fixed and hungry stare at west , who was laughing and clapping his singing partner on the shoulder , entirely given over to the enjoyment of the moment , eyes shining , fair hair falling over his forehead .
suddenly , west became aware of williamss stare and gave him such a look that i expected the man to fall over dead from the sheer icy intensity of it .
he excused himself and left the room .
an hour or two later , the party had degenerated into something of a brawl and i was feeling unwell .
west was nowhere to be found , so i went to get my coat .
in the relative quiet of the entrance hall , i heard voices nearby .
i looked around the corner and saw west and james williams a little distance away .
west leaned a shoulder against the panelling , one arm folded against his chest , a drink in his other hand .
williams had his back to me , but i could see his hand tentatively touching the lapel of wests jacket , plucking the cloth nervously between thumb and fingers as he spoke .
i could not hear what they said , for it was a conversation carried on in murmurs , mainly by williams .
his voice rose a little at times , taking on an imploring note .
wests replies were brief , but i was struck by his manner teasing , almost coquettish , with an ironic half smile .
i must have made some involuntary sound or movement , for suddenly he glanced in my direction .
unperturbed , he flicked williamss hand from his lapel as though it were a bit of fluff .
not now , james , he said , then , in a louder voice , charles , surely youre not leaving already ?
i turned away from williamss stricken face , embarrassed .
williams left without a word while i was making my good byes and i heard later quitted miskatonic and arkham some months subsequently .
the day following the dinner , i mentioned the incident to west .
james williams seemed upset about something when he left the other night .
hes an importunate fellow , said west .
just because i invited him to dinner and a small debauch , he thought well , never mind what he thought , but he seriously misjudged his potential .
not very good in a physicist .
oh , you dont understand ?
well , never mind .
i didnt ask him any more , but i wondered .
had there been a miscommunication between the two of them ?
had williams recognized a kindred spirit and leapt to conclusions ?
or had west given him reason for hope , then changed his mind ?
none of this troubled me , particularly .
what did , in fact , was this very lack of trouble , and the realization that the scene i had witnessed had intrigued me , rather than repelled .
now that the usage of the years had dimmed wests glamour a little , it seemed to me that i was fated to be his confidant and , in an odd sense , his guardian .
his peculiar upbringing and idiosyncratic values predisposed him to dangerous excesses , but he used me as a kind of everyman on whom to test some of his ideas and plans .
i had a twofold responsibility to protect the world from him , and him from the world .
i wondered which would prove more compelling .
with the arrival of spring , anna derbys remains were laid to rest in the derby family plot in christ church cemetery , rather than by the side of her husband in boston .
west insisted on this .
she was quite clearly dissociated from hiram , no longer his wife in any sense that mattered .
what do your brothers think ?
they had attended neither the funeral service nor the burial .
they have no feelings about her , one way or the other .
as for me , i dont see much of them now .
they had to make other arrangements when i was in europe , and i decided not to be available to them when i returned .
what do you mean , other arrangements ?
i used to do the odd bit of work for them .
strictly off the record , of course .
but no more .
theyll have to deal with their own dirty linen .
and dont ask me to explain that , because i wont .
chapter 16 in the summer of 1920 , alma halsey returned to arkham .
she knocked on my door one saturday afternoon .
i was unprepared for her arrival and was surprised by the upspringing of joy i felt when i saw her .
i lifted her off her feet and whirled her around several times before setting her down laughing .
such exuberance , charles !
she said , kissing me on both cheeks .
oh , im so glad to see you again !
i hardly know what to ask you first .
we spent the afternoon and evening talking .
alma was in arkham for a short time only , staying with her parents .
she intended to settle in boston , where she would be writing a series of articles for the post on various aspects of modern life as they pertained to women .
its exactly what i wanted to do even before i knew it , she said .
those months of wandering around europe showed me that .
so journalisms gain is librarianships loss .
and mine , too , it seems .
now charles , you have to own something or someone to lose it .
and im going to be in boston , for gods sake .
thats a lot closer than ive been in five years .
if you want me youll know where to find me .
so what have you been doing all this time , besides cataloguing ?
reading about alchemy .
why ?
for the sake of the quarrington collection , mainly .
but i admit i find it fascinating .
if i had lived hundreds of years ago , i might have tried to become a practical alchemist .
is there any other kind ?
but somehow i cant see you cooking and distilling all sorts of things , trying to turn them into gold .
youd probably set yourself on fire .
she laughed and drained her glass .
well , it is the spiritual side that appeals to me .
her laughter had fallen harshly on my ears and i was happy to change the subject as i poured her another drink .
eventually , our conversation turned to west .
hes doing quite well these days , i said , specializing in what he calls reconstruction .
you know , repairing serious wounds so as to minimize scarring .
but theres also renovation , i guess you could call it .
some people film stars , mainly want to have their faces improved .
better noses and chins and so on .
you mean people come to arkham to have herbert west slice up their faces ?
she was aghast .
boston .
there arent enough good hotels in arkham for the recovery period .
west seems quite amused by the whole thing .
he says he doesnt care who he operates on as long as its technically interesting .
hmm .
i always thought he had more than a little of the ghoul about him .
well , hes not getting anywhere near my face with that scalpel of his .
your face doesnt need improving , alma .
thank you .
speaking of west , i heard something rather odd .
mother told me that his mother died just a few months ago .
but it seems that he hadnt even known she was still alive .
is that true ?
i gave her an edited version of the story but could not conceal the fact that anna derby had been an inmate of sefton asylum for many years before her death .
hiram west for a father and a madwoman for a mother , said alma .
what a legacy .
i suppose it explains a few things .
she was getting uncomfortably close to a sore point .
im not certain what youre suggesting , alma .
well , perhaps i am , but ill choose to ignore it for now .
i think he has come to terms with his mothers situation by now .
and its been a few years since hiram died .
but his older brothers are carrying on in their fathers footsteps , by all accounts , and with youthful gusto .
ive heard that theyre getting into the liquor business , now that the eighteenth amendment has passed .
young herbert would do well to stick to his last , or rather his blade .
i was glad when we went on to other topics , glad also to find that alma and i still had much to say to one another .
i had feared that our past connection would create unease between us , or that after her travels i would seem dull and provincial .
quite late in the evening i walked her back to her parents house .
lets not lose track of each other again , charles , she said in parting .
well , it wasnt i who went away .
but i came back .
after almas amused reaction to the topic of alchemy , i had not told her how my interest in and knowledge of it had grown since my involvement with the quarrington collection that i sought out books about it at every opportunity , entering a world full of fantastic beasts and elaborate symbols , whose complicated literature hid more than it revealed , but was nevertheless nearly addictive .
as i read the texts which seemed often to contradict one another and studied the illustrations of winged dragons , self devouring serpents , hermaphrodites , green lions and unicorns expiring in the laps of maidens , i had glimpses of a great secret the reconciliation of good and evil in a mysterious duality .
light and darkness were contained in a single nature redeemed by the great work , by sacrifice and resurrection .
the writings rarely mentioned gold .
the golden flower , yes , but also the blue flower , the emerald tablet , a progression of colours from black to white to yellow to red .
i was fascinated beyond reason and opened each book as though it was a door to a magical realm .
but there was no one with whom i could discuss this interest , neither my librarian colleagues nor my friends .
alma dismissed it as a medieval curiosity and west thought it frivolous and irrational .
i perforce kept this secret to myself , even as it permeated my thoughts .
i never admitted the possibility of magic .
in the years after his mothers death , herbert west reached the pinnacle of his career .
the specialty he had created nearly single handed was now taught in several medical schools , which meant that he was in demand as a lecturer as well as a practitioner .
his patients ran the gamut from factory workers to the luminaries of stage and screen .
i found out about the latter mainly from sarah , since west was uncompromisingly professional when it came to revealing confidential details about his patients .
on the few occasions that he related some of the particulars of a case it was the technical aspects that interested him , not the notoriety of the patient .
he had not emerged entirely unscathed from the events surrounding his mothers death .
those who knew him knew better than to refer flippantly to asylums or madness in his presence or , for that matter , to mothers .
anyone who transgressed , whether through malice , clumsiness or ignorance , was treated to a glacial stare and instantly rebuffed .
i detected an increase in his reserve , a lessening of that devil may care insouciance that formed a good part of his charm .
he was quicker to take offence and to express anger .
one day in the early fall of 1922 , i was reading the newspapers over my morning coffee , when a small item in the arkham advertiser caught my eye .
a strange wanderer on the aylesbury pike travellers on the aylesbury pike early tuesday morning were surprised to see a strange , apparently human being shambling along .
it seemed to be disoriented , since it changed direction several times , once crossing directly into the path of an oncoming automobile .
arkham police were notified and picked up the individual , who was in a poor state of health .
doctors at st. marys hospital said that the main problems were exposure and mental confusion , but evidence of recent surgical procedures was noted as well .
staff at st. marys said that no patients had been reported missing .
the individual expired later that day , without giving a statement .
investigations continue .
this snippet induced in me an intense disquiet .
the reference to recent surgery and the fact that the individual could not be accounted for by the hospital pointed to west , with his secret laboratory , his surgical adventurousness , flexible ethics and love of experimentation .
what had been the nature of the surgery , i wondered , and why was no gender used in reference to the unfortunate creature ?
west had stated categorically on his return from the war that he had finished with revivification , due to the limited success of the procedure and the expansion of his interests into other areas .
with his practice , his teaching and other commitments , as well as the research he carried out openly at the medical school , he would have little time for clandestine pursuits .
but this shambling figure i could visualize it now , lurching from one side to the other of the busy aylesbury pike , a vacant stare on its face , a face that had been altered from its original lineaments , perhaps ?
i reread the story , but it gave no details as to which parts of the body had been operated upon .
i wondered if sarah had heard anything .
this local story was overshadowed by a spectacular incident from new york city .
the previous night a celebrated diva of the metropolitan opera , a silvery voiced french soprano named eleonora desanges , had been nearly killed in a savage attack by her former lover , an artist called alexander degrassi .
a knife had been involved , with the result that both the singers throat and face had been slashed .
she will never sing again , mourned one headline and divas beauty ruined , proclaimed another .
the major city papers wallowed in the story , dredging up every detail they could find about desanges career and stormy private life .
cheated of the spectacle of a celebritys death and funeral , they made the most of her disfigurement and the ruin of her career .
both of these events , the local and the international one , were on my mind when i joined west for lunch at the miskatonic university faculty club later that day .
he preferred this venue for dining to the even more exclusive doctors lounge at the hospital .
too insular , he said of the latter .
i get tired of shop talk , and for some reason physicians in a group tend to be rather coarse .
i prefer the company of mixed academics .
the cooking is better here too .
he was in an ebullient mood .
its lucky we decided on lunch rather than dinner today , charles .
andre and i are leaving for new york city this afternoon .
what , on the 2 30 ?
thats a late start .
why not tomorrow morning , on the 8 a.m. ?
its too urgent for the train .
im driving to boston , meeting a pilot there and being flown the rest of the way .
we should arrive before dark .
flown to new york ?
why ?
the desanges case .
im going to reconstruct the beautiful eleonora and her voice .
naturally , theres a certain urgency to get on with it .
but the papers say it cant be done .
shell never sing again , they say .
oh , shell sing again .
maybe not exactly the same way .
the silvery voice may become a velvety voice , or a honeyed one , but shell grace the mets stage again , i guarantee it .
i was a little taken aback by his aggressively optimistic attitude and wondered whether his record of successes had caused him to abandon scientific caution .
how can you be so sure ?
have you ever done an operation like this before ?
the papers said her throats been slashed .
wouldnt that have destroyed the vocal cords ?
i think i have more accurate information on the state of mlle .
desanges vocal cords than the fellows who wrote those newspaper stories .
and as for doing such operations , in france i patched up slashed throats , faces and body parts of all kinds , most of them successfully .
oh , i believe that .
but how many of those fellows were opera singers ?
scars are one thing on a soldier , quite another on someone who makes her living on the stage .
this is my specialty , charles .
i assure you i have repaired injuries much worse than these .
and not in any crude , scarred way either , as you seem to think .
its true that there were no divas in combat in the great war , although i did work on a couple of nurses who were cut by flying glass when the germans bombed the hospital at etaples .
the exact techniques will depend on the precise nature of the injuries , of course .
but based on what her doctors have told me , its entirely reasonable to expect a full vocal recovery .
and the face should be routine .
mlle .
desanges may emerge from this ordeal more beautiful than ever , in fact .
there has been no loss of tissue , merely injury .
loss would have made it a rather more interesting procedure .
now specifically he launched into a description i soon lost track of , which was just as well , because it involved references to skinning , flaps , retraction , excision , swelling and other grisly matters which were not a happy accompaniment to a meal .
over dessert , i ventured to mention the aylesbury pike incident .
yes , i did notice something in the advertiser , west said , addressing himself to a piece of apple pie .
the story reminds you of john hocks , doesnt it ?
you neednt worry .
according to my informant at sefton , hocks is the same as ever .
he looked at me , smiling , with such a guileless expression in his grey eyes that i felt ashamed of my suspicions .
you dont know anything more about it , then ?
i thought you might , being.. connected with the hospital and all .
not a thing .
i wasnt there yesterday , for one thing .
better ask your pal sarah .
this is excellent pie , by the way .
you should have some .
i wonder where that person could have come from , i persisted , if not from the hospital .
and did you notice the article didnt say whether it was a man or a woman ?
why would that be ?
well , the advertiser doesnt exactly hire the best reporters , you know .
most of those go to the big cities , like your friend alma .
as to where the thing might have come from , my guess would be sefton asylum .
theyre not terribly vigilant when it comes to escapees , as we have reason to know .
its a wonder theyve managed to hold onto hocks all these years .
and its a sad thing , but the inmates of such institutions eventually begin to look like one another , men and women alike .
but the evidence of surgery ?
even lunatics need surgery on occasion .
you know that as well as i do .
again , the details were mostly absent .
that little story has certainly taken your fancy .
well , but it just sounded so so much like something id be mixed up in , is that it ?
youre getting suspicious in your old age , charles .
i have enough surgery to do without making a hobby of it .
and now i must be off .
that night i went to wests house .
brooding over our conversation for the remainder of the afternoon had convinced me that i had to investigate further .
this would be my only chance .
to enter the house uninvited in his absence was not only illegal but possibly dangerous .
had i not already seen that hiram wests son or not , he had a ruthlessness equal to hirams when it came to protecting his interests ?
and with his peculiar ethical make up , the borders of friendship were closer to home than one might imagine .
but i had accepted my undeclared role as guardian and conscience , and could not elude it .
it was with a good deal of unease that i approached the house on boundary street late that night , armed with a couple of flashlights .
for the first time i noticed how peculiarly well situated the place was for one who valued , indeed required , secrecy .
the grounds were extensive , the rear consisting of shrubberies , while the part close to the house and street was conventionally landscaped .
west cared nothing for gardening , but employed a man to keep the grass cut and the shrubs pruned .
beyond this buffer zone the neighbouring houses were comfortably distant .
west had never asked me to return the keys he had given me when he left for the war .
i tried one of them in the outer door , almost hoping that he had changed the locks since his return .
but it turned easily and soon i was standing in the hall where robert leavitt had died .
the house felt occupied .
i told myself that this was only because i remembered my previous solitary visit , just before wests return from europe .
on that occasion , empty for four years , the place had been lifeless and sterile now it was inhabited , a home .
but already nervous , i could not ignore the feeling that someone was there .
perhaps andre had stayed behind after all ?
to dispel my unease , i called out , hello !
is anyone here ?
there was no answer , only a thick silence followed by the non sound of my own blood circulating .
whatever i was looking for would be in the laboratory .
lighting my way with a flashlight , i descended to the cellar and moved the hinged section of shelves that concealed the door .
my second key fitted its lock and i entered the room , closed the door and turned on the electric lights .
the last time i had been in this room was more than two years before , when i had helped west with the revivification of his mother .
on that occasion i had an impression that west had re equipped the place , but now there was no doubt of it .
new apparatus had been added , most of it for purposes unknown to me .
the most striking objects were a fully equipped operating table under powerful lights , and a kind of vat with a constellation of glass vessels connected to it by tubes and rubber hoses .
on shelves at one end of the room stood a dozen large vessels full of an iridescent , violet coloured liquid .
looking more closely , i saw that several of the jars contained cloudy shapes , as if the stuff were coalescing to form distinct entities .
there was something disturbing about these shapes , to the extent that i was happy to look away from them , but not before i was reminded of the homunculi that paracelsus and other alchemists had claimed to have coaxed from the prima materia by their arts .
sitting down on a stool , i tried to think .
during the war , west had written to me about the beginnings of his work in what he called reconstruction and renovation , saying that it involved the revivifying fluid in some way .
he would need large amounts of the stuff for his normal practice , even if he no longer did revivifications .
i could explain what i saw , but was this innocent explanation the correct one ?
i had known west long enough that logic produced another explanation , one which i could no longer ignore .
why did he revivify corpses ?
because he wanted to .
because he was able to .
it was a way of exercising his will to a degree impossible for others .
he had never published anything about revivification , whatever his original intentions , and never would .
why would he give away to the world the secret of his unique power ?
for him , it was no longer research .
but what about the operating table ?
even i recognized that this was no longer the simple slab that we had used for leavitt and his predecessors .
its presence seemed to negate wests recent declaration that he did not engage in surgery as a hobby .
but no doubt he would not regard it so he would call it research .
all right , but why was he doing research here in the cellar , when he had a fully equipped facility at the medical school at his disposal ?
inevitably , i was led back to something hidden and secret .
i poked about , opening cupboards and drawers .
for the most part , their contents told me nothing , but in one drawer i found a pistol , surely a non standard piece of lab equipment if ever there was one .
target practice ?
on what ?
florence flasks that had somehow offended him ?
i looked at it for a long time before i closed the drawer .
i was about to leave when i remembered the annexe , the other room to which i had never been admitted , even when i was wests collaborator and accomplice .
it was still locked , and i had no key .
frustrated , i thumped my fist against the door .
i nearly screamed when a deep groan sounded from beyond the solid wood .
my heart seemed to stop beating , then started again with a heavy thudding that filled my ears with a rushing sound .
my nerves twitched with a futile impulse to run .
when it lessened i pressed my ear to the door .
nothing .
i struck the door again .
this time i heard a cracked voice raving , o god , o god , o god , repeated many times , then fading away .
i stood frozen , ear to door , for long moments during which my brain contained only one phrase , echoing the words of the unknown occupant of the locked room no , not this .
no , not this .
no , not this .
a sentence from the rosarium philosophorum swam into my mind for our stone , namely the living western quicksilver which has placed itself above the gold and vanquished it , is that which kills and quickens .
finally , thought returned .
what could i do ?
obviously , i could not break down the door alone .
should i summon the police ?
i crept back into the main laboratory and tried to analyze the situation .
clearly , it was alive , and human , and suffering .
but who was it , and why was it here ?
did west have an actual patient here in this cellar ?
could there be a legitimate reason for someone to be alone in that room , in pain or suffering ?
i thought of the little west had told me of his renovation work surgery performed solely to alter someones facial appearance .
i supposed it was possible that an individual who wished to have such a procedure done in secret was being accommodated in this hidden room .
but west expected to be away for a week .
surely he would not leave someone unattended for that long a time ?
whatever else he might be , west was conscientious when it came to his living patients .
his perfectionism would allow no less .
despite my confusion , one thing seemed clear .
i had to try to communicate with whoever was behind that door .
i went back to it and rapped on the wood .
who is there ?
i called .
are you all right ?
silence .
and silence .
and silence .
there was no response to my rappings and calls .
at length i gave up and went upstairs .
i went to wests study , hoping to find something there to explain the presence of someone in the locked annexe .
his desk was , as usual , awash in books and papers , but they seemed to be exclusively of a professional nature and told me nothing .
the filing cabinets were locked , as were the desk drawers .
the other rooms were orderly , as always .
except for his study , west managed to occupy a place without leaving much evidence of his presence .
i wandered aimlessly around , trying to extract from the familiar surroundings indications as to the thoughts and motivations of their absent owner .
i looked in the sitting room mirror , but all i could see in its tarnished and wavy glass was my own anxious face .
and over my shoulder the opposite wall , on which hung the three paintings by walter dixon taylor .
i went over and studied the pictures once more .
i had grown no fonder of them with the years and now found them more disturbing than ever .
west had been evasive when i had invited him to speculate as to what might have inspired the artist to paint these images , and why it was west to whom he had given them .
now , with the evidence of his secret doings fresh in my mind i could not help but wonder again .
had taylor known of wests private research ?
or had he been inspired by something less tangible ?
i could find no answers to these questions , not in this room , nor in any of the others i had visited .
that left only wests bedroom and the small adjoining room where he kept his wardrobe .
only here did i have a sense of his presence .
a bathrobe was draped over the foot of the bed and a shirt and tie hung on the back of the single chair .
a couple of books lay on the bedside table .
i went over to see what he had been reading .
hugos les miserables , in french , i noticed , and an english translation of the meditations of marcus aurelius .
suddenly i felt exceedingly uncomfortable .
why was i prying into my friends personal things ?
whatever he might be doing in his laboratory , surely he was entitled to privacy in the place where he slept .
i left immediately .
by the time i reached my own home i had come to a decision .
i would return to the laboratory each night and try to speak to the occupant of the locked room .
the nature of any response i would elicit might tell me what to do next .
and i would meet with sarah enright and carefully question her about anything she might know about wests recent professional activities .
she might not have much direct knowledge , but she would certainly have heard gossip .
finally , i would have to have a serious talk with west at the earliest opportunity .
sarah and i met at our usual cafeteria the next day .
i had given much thought as to how i should pose my questions to her .
she knew , of course , that west and i were friends of long standing , and therefore would think it peculiar if i started asking about things that she would expect me to know already .
thus i began by chatting about the strange incident on the aylesbury pike .
had she actually seen the afflicted individual ?
no , but i talked with someone who did .
she said it was very peculiar .
no hair , for one thing .
and there were these partially healed incisions all around the face .
nicely done , too , she said .
was it a man or a woman ?
the paper didnt say .
it was a woman .
but you couldnt tell right away .
because the face had been altered ?
that , yes .
but the breasts had been removed .
i felt sick .
this was much worse than i had expected .
i forced myself to maintain a light tone of voice .
i heard a rumour that it might have been someone who had run away from sefton .
who knows ?
i imagine the police checked there .
but you want to know an odd thing ?
theres a body missing from the morgue .
i looked up quickly .
too quickly , perhaps .
oh really ?
there couldnt be a connection , surely .
unless its possible for someone to be put in the morgue before theyre really dead .
i doubt it .
anyway , i wasnt suggesting there is a connection , only that its another strange thing thats happened this week .
yes , it surely is that .
sarah , dont you think its wonderful that dr. west has been called to new york to operate on that opera singer ?
it certainly is .
this should really put arkham on the map .
tell me , whats it like to work with him ?
well , hes very quick , very demanding , but fair .
he expects us nurses to know our stuff and do it without being told .
and hes polite .
he doesnt yell at us or call us names when we make mistakes .
but he isnt what youd call friendly .
hes pleasant enough , but thats just on the surface .
underneath theres ice .
ive only noticed that in the last year or two .
he wasnt like that before .
whats he like with patients ?
chilly .
hes a great technician .
if i had to have an operation , id want dr. west to do it .
his patients get fewer infections and recover faster than anybodys .
but if i had a disease that couldnt be fixed with surgery , hes the last doctor id choose .
he has no interest in explaining things to patients .
you see , its not enough to tell someone they have a tumor and they have three months to live no i cant do anything good afternoon .
next patient .
people who are getting that kind of bad news need time to talk and ask a lot of questions , and hear the same answers in different ways .
dr. west its more than just not taking the time .
it doesnt even occur to him that it needs to be done at all .
so its a good thing hes a surgeon .
but id hate to be the person he tells that he cant do something for them .
well , mrs. smith , i cant eliminate that squint of yours without cutting an important nerve to your brain .
so resign yourself to it .
she sounded so much like west that i laughed in spite of myself .
sarah started to laugh too , and it was at least a minute before we could stop .
what about the other doctors ?
how does he get along with them ?
well enough , on the surface .
most of them recognize his competence but dont feel close to him .
others hate him , but i think thats mostly jealousy .
one thing ive heard is that he uses too many new techniques on patients before theyve been fully tested .
so far hes been able to get away with it , but one day hell slip up .
thats what some of them say , and i think they can hardly wait for it to happen .
that sounds pretty drastic .
oh , its only one or two .
mostly dr. james hobson .
hes a friend of dr. halseys .
i remembered my encounter with hobson at the halseys reception ten years ago , and diverted our conversation into other channels .
although i was almost sure that the wanderer on the aylesbury pike was wests handiwork , no one else had as yet made the connection .
he must have once more taken a corpse from the morgue , with the objective this time not revivification , but surgery .
a kind of vivisection on the recently dead ?
or would that be revivisection ?
i returned to wests cellar three more times during his absence and forced myself to hammer on the locked door .
each time i heard only silence .
was the person i had heard still alive ?
had i even heard anyone in the first place ?
without any evidence to support this i hesitated to call the police .
i began to wish i had not bothered to pry into wests doings .
all i had accomplished was to acquire some disturbing and inconclusive information about which i did not know what to do .
eleonora desanges made a spectacular recovery .
fewer than six months after surgery she was on the stage again .
critics filled their reviews with words such as rich , warm and velvety .
her tone was likened to amber , honey and a fine old wine .
as for her face , there certainly were no scars apparent .
some said that she was more beautiful than before , her face more distinguished and finely sculpted .
west was referred to frequently as a magician .
newspaper reporters and magazine writers appeared on his doorstep , demanding interviews .
its ridiculous , charles , he said .
there was some fairly complex surgery here , but nothing out of the ordinary .
why , if those people wanted to hear about something truly amazing , i could tell them about a fellow i worked on in france in 1918 .
his name was west , like mine , thats why i remember it .
peter west , that was it .
part of his face had been blown away .
it was not merely slashed , charles , it was gone .
luckily the bones were more or less intact .
i managed to make a new face for him .
it took three months and a large amount of a certain substance i believe ive told you about .
but when he finally left for home , he had a face .
a decent looking one too .
now that was surgery worth making a fuss about .
but no one wants to hear about peter west from some place called manitoba , and everyone wants me to tell them for the fiftieth time about eleonora desanges .
i made the right sounds in response to this , but i was thinking about a shambling form on the aylesbury pike .
and about sounds from behind a locked door .
the storm of celebrity reached its zenith when west received word that the president of france had awarded him the legion dhonneur for , as the letter put it , saving a national treasure of france .
reporters from several french publications , and some british ones as well , descended on arkham .
it was months before west was left in peace .
i still have the clippings and articles .
looking at them a few days ago , i was impressed by the sheer volume of material .
an article from a british magazine included a photograph of west .
i had forgotten how young he was then , only thirty five .
his pictured face seemed to gaze out beyond me , the clear eyes looking into some unguessable distance .
here was a man , i thought , who had made the dead come to life , who had snatched the dying from the brink of death , who had made a new face for a man , who had restored the voice of eleonora desanges .
was it right to judge him by the rules that applied to me , to sarah , to the rest of us ordinary plodders ?
was it so surprising that he would rewrite some of them to suit himself ?
chapter 17 thou wilt never make from others the one that thou seekest , except there first be made one thing of thyself .
gerard dorn philosophia meditativa in 1923 , herbert wests star fell from the sky .
the first intimations of disaster were harmless enough .
in january , i was in boston on library business and went to see alma , who was living in an apartment in the south end .
as always , we had a good deal of catching up to do .
alma asked me about various arkham colleagues and friends , and i was eager to hear about her burgeoning career as a journalist .
at length , a silence fell between us .
alma broke it by saying , something interesting , charles recently i happened to meet a journalist id known in england .
shes writing a series of stories called mysteries of the great war .
one of them is about the disappearance of general clapham lee remember him , that associate of herbert wests i mentioned in one of my letters ?
i remember .
i felt a trickle of unease .
well , this journalist , kate winter , says that she has spoken to the mans son , edward clapham lee .
hes a doctor in london .
he said something about following up a lead in america , in arkham , to be precise .
what do you think of that ?
i was sure west had something to do with clapham lee seniors disappearance .
wait a minute , alma .
just because arkham was mentioned , it doesnt necessarily implicate west .
there are twenty thousand people in arkham .
ah , but only one of them was recently written up everywhere for performing miracles of surgery on a famous singer .
this edward clapham lee specifically mentioned that .
she sat back in her chair , looking pleased with herself .
well , what did you say ?
what did i say to kate ?
merely that i was acquainted with herbert west and that hed been a medical officer with the canadian army in france .
but i dont think that was news to her .
when i returned to arkham , i lost no time in telephoning west to tell him that i had a matter of some urgency to discuss with him .
he seemed irritated , but said he could see me that evening .
in his study i recounted what alma had told me .
now i dont know anything about clapham lee except that he was an associate of yours .
but i thought you should know about this .
well i do , as a matter of fact .
edward clapham lee has already been in communication with professor hobson .
hobson !
he was one of wests undoubted enemies .
yes .
i can imagine what hobson told clapham lee about me , west said .
he did not look particularly distressed , however .
but herbert , is there anything for edward clapham lee to find ?
that youd rather he didnt , i mean .
there is , but in effect there isnt .
have you ever read poes purloined letter ?
its like that .
hidden in plain view .
is that all of your urgent business ?
no , actually .
now that i had come to the point i was more nervous than i had anticipated .
herbert , i need to talk with you .
he gave me a look in which exasperation was mingled with amusement .
here i am , charles .
so talk .
what are you getting at , exactly ?
he was not helping me at all .
i felt as though i had been digging a hole and had managed to fall into it .
but i kept digging .
i think youve been revivifying corpses and operating on them .
that strange person woman found on the aylesbury road last fall , im sure you had something to do with that , even though you told me you didnt .
having found it exceedingly difficult to get this far , i didnt have the courage to admit i had searched his house too .
before i respond , let me ask you something .
it seems youve been doing some investigating .
what , precisely , is your purpose ?
do you consider yourself a minion of justice ?
or are you going to join alma halsey in the journalistic profession , if it can be called that ?
or do you fancy that our friendship gives you the privilege to pry into my business and play the role of my conscience ?
the coldness and sarcasm of his tone dismayed , then angered me .
i was glad of the anger because it gave me courage .
none of those , herbert , i said .
i thought you would recognize friendship when you saw it .
i dont propose to exercise moral judgment on you , but there are others wholl do just that , professor hobson for one .
im sure theyre ready to pry into your affairs , as you put it .
if youre engaged in activities that break their rules , youre vulnerable to attack .
like allan halsey was .
remember him ?
west began to laugh .
he laughed loudly and long , with what sounded like a trace of hysteria .
when he stopped , he said , well spoken , charles .
all right , youve convinced me you have my interests at heart and i must admit that you of all people have never shown any signs of betraying me .
unfortunately , i must disappoint you .
i will say only that you were right about that wretched creature on the aylesbury road .
it was indeed my creation .
but dont exercise that vivid imagination of yours by speculating about its sufferings .
there were none .
i took good care to ensure that , but it was criminally careless of me to let it escape .
thats all im going to say on the subject , and in the interests of friendship i think its time you left .
he showed me out of his house without another word .
i did not see much of west after that .
whenever i met him on the street or on the campus , he was cordial enough but he no longer invited me to his home .
one evening early in march i stayed late at my work and it was after seven oclock when i locked the door of the cataloguing department .
the great hall on the main floor of the library was warmly lit and full of students consulting the card catalogue and making notes .
there were only a few weeks before papers were due and examinations impending .
outside , i was surprised at how dark it was .
at my usual quitting time , it would not even be dusk , but the additional two hours had made a greater difference than i had expected , especially since the day had been an overcast one .
the lights around the campus quadrangle seemed dim , as though they fought an unequal battle with the night .
a cold blue mist had gathered , obscuring the administration building opposite .
i felt a weight settle on my spirit , as though inhaling the dark air had poisoned me .
i had intended to go to alfreds restaurant on main street , a frequent haunt of mine as an alternative to the uninspired meals produced by my landladys cook .
but the prospect of the familiar routine of ordering soup and a cutlet from the motherly mrs. alfred a very good choice , mr. milburn you wont be disappointed and chatting with other lone diners about the weather or whatever we were reading in our newspapers , seemed futile and drab .
but no more so than an even more solitary meal in my apartment .
it was too late to find a colleague for company and i was getting cold , standing irresolute in front of the library , an obstacle to hurrying students .
for lack of any better idea , i started toward main street .
i was halfway down a narrow passageway between the library and the arts building when i saw someone cross its far end at right angles to my own path , a hurrying figure clad in a long coat and a hat .
it could have been anyone , but i thought it was west .
i quickened my steps .
if i could get within hailing distance , i would greet him .
maybe we could share a meal and find our friendship still intact .
the light at the near end of howards alley was burned out and in my hurry i had forgotten the irregularities in the brick pavement , where water always collected in wet weather .
my shoes were in need of repair and to avoid puddles , i slowed down and picked my way , trying to remember where the depressions were .
even so , i plunged one foot ankle deep before i was clear of the treacherous section .
by then , west was only a dim silhouette against the lights on distant river street .
i broke into a run , cursing the puddles and the limp that slowed me down .
i was further delayed on main street by a glut of cars crawling past a broken down truck .
i managed to negotiate a zig zag course among them , but by the time i reached river street , i had no idea where west had gone .
shops were shutting for the night and only a few people were on the sidewalks , going home from work or to some evening entertainment .
not surprisingly , the promenade along the miskatonic was deserted on this damp , raw evening .
a row of yellow lights marched eastward and westward .
as i passed each lamppost , my shadow raced along before me or lagged behind , as though growing tired of the chase .
the dark river water gurgled along the wall but no one lingered in the riverside park , with its wet benches and leafless trees .
with a pang of sadness , i remembered my walks here with alma on summer evenings long ago .
my leg was starting to hurt and i was hungry .
whether or not it had been west i had seen , he was gone .
i had lost him .
because of this useless detour , it was too late to go to alfreds .
they closed promptly at eight , and it was now ten minutes to .
there was nothing left but to go home .
i took a final look up and down the river .
far to the east , where the promenade ended and the lights blurred together into a dim yellow glow , i saw someone moving .
someone .
a man wearing a long coat and a hat , who might have been herbert west .
i decided to follow , despite my sore leg and my hunger , and a suspicion that it was a futile effort .
but now , even if i did catch up to him , he would be no longer a friend met by chance .
now he was my quarry .
i would have to think of a reason for following him .
perhaps the simple truth would do ?
hello , herbert , i saw you from howards alley , and wondered if youd want to join me for supper .
i really hated the thought of dining alone , so i followed you all this way .
it sounded absurd and pathetic .
he would either laugh at me or be annoyed .
and where was he going , anyway ?
was this why he was too busy to spend time with his old friend because he had to walk the streets of arkham by night ?
he continued along river street , past a row of ancient houses that leaned together in the mist as though to reassure one another that they would stand for another century , having already survived more than two .
i nearly lost him again in the greater dimness here , where buildings hid the river vista and more street lamps were burned out .
but i could hear his footsteps , faintly each one a small , precise tap on the pavement .
surely this had to be west !
his steps always sounded like this , quick , deliberate , purposeful .
i would have to keep just far enough behind him that he wouldnt notice me if he happened to turn around .
i no longer intended to get his attention , but wanted only to see where he was going and what he was up to .
we were now in east arkham , the nucleus of the old town , which had degenerated into a slum .
the gambrel roofed houses , no longer occupied by solid puritan burghers , were a teeming warren of foreigners poles , french canadians , italians , even a few syrians , not to mention native born americans who had fallen into poverty .
cheap rooming houses tottered against one another , with vacant lots here and there , like missing teeth .
the few shops were dimly lit and patronized by furtive figures who rummaged among unthinkable merchandise in the dingy aisles .
from taverns occasional sounds erupted , of drunken conviviality .
west ignored all this .
he kept moving at a steady pace , past crooked doorways , decrepit automobiles , slinking cats .
he did not speak to anyone we passed , not the tired looking workmen in their patched jackets and flat caps , nor the women of indeterminate age huddled in coats and headscarves , nor the rabbles of skinny kids , one of which nearly knocked me down as they raced by , sniggering .
but i would not lose my way.. ironically , this disreputable part of arkham was not unknown to me , and my familiarity with it was a result of my friendship with west and my failed love affair with alma .
i no longer cherished any illusions about my situation .
my fathers bankruptcy and suicide had been the first of my misfortunes .
if not for that , i would by now be a professor of classics at some prosperous college .
i would probably have a wife and two or three little children .
on a night like this one , i would be warm and dry before my own hearth after a good meal , not walking the cold streets with holes in my shoes and a chill on my heart .
true , i had a profession which , while peculiar , satisfied me .
once i had a woman who i thought loved me , and a friend who was remarkable , a law unto himself .
but i had lost them both .
i saw again that chimerical hearth and home , except this time it was alma by my side .
i saw west , rapt and exalted , waiting for life to emerge from death .
they were so different from one another that i could not explain their removals from me as mere quirks of individual fancy .
no , i thought , realizing that it had begun to rain , a cold rain that could turn into sleet at any moment it was largely because of my loyalty to west that i had lost alma .
and where had that loyalty brought me ?
to this drab street , alone in the rain , following someone who was most likely a stranger .
i stuck my cold hands into my coat pockets and wished that i had brought gloves .
both of my feet were wet , my bad leg hurt and my hunger had evolved into a feeling of faintness .
moreover , i could no longer see west .
he must have made a couple of quick turns i had missed .
it was time to abandon the chase .
was it only by coincidence that i found myself on powder mill street ?
there was a house where lonely fellows like me were welcome , provided we had a few dollars in our pockets .
i had come to know it during the war years .
the furniture was elegant , in a way , and the atmosphere both welcoming and secretive .
that was part of its dubious charm .
the ornaments in the parlour were familiar to me by now artificial flowers under a glass dome and a plenitude of embroidered cushions .
a plaster copy of a statue from india that reminded me of mr. burtons book in the librarys vault .
some naughty japanese prints .
lamps with fringed and bobbled shades , intended to cast a discreetly dim light .
well .
so much for the parlour .
one of the women looked like alma .
or at least , that was what i told myself .
she was blonde , her body strong and supple , not full breasted .
with her hair cut short or hidden under a cap , she could have passed for a boy .
she called herself sadie i never knew her real name .
our transactions were just that transactions , but conducted with a certain grace .
when i told her i was a librarian , she said she read books sometimes .
i did not ask her about them there were others with whom i could discuss books .
from her i wanted something else .
i was cold , wet and hungry .
the sensible thing would be to go home and warm up the greasy chop and mashed potatoes awaiting me on the covered plate on my table .
i would follow them with a small glass of whiskey the remains of a supply procured for me by west and the illusion of company offered by the characters of the novel i was reading .
then i would go to bed .
but my rooms were a long way off and the rain had turned to sleet .
i could telephone for a taxi , afterward .
i had done that before .
i went up the steps and rang the bell .
someone always answered the bell , and tonight was no exception .
oh sir , my but youre wet !
we havent seen you in a while .
come on in .
sadiell be glad to see you .
just wait in the parlour for a few minutes and ill tell her youre here .
an hour of warmth , companionship , intimacy .
cheap at the price .
later , after the taxi had deposited me in front of my house , i got my car and drove westward along college .
near the hospital , i parked on a side street and walked slowly along boundary street , past wests house .
a light burned in the porch and another somewhere on the second floor .
but it was a dim light and even though it shone through the parlour windows , it was not in the parlour .
in the hall , perhaps .
his study was dark .
as i stood and watched , someone passed the parlour windows , a dim silhouette , dimmed even more by the panes of coloured glass .
only once .
then all was as before .
so he was home now , at any rate .
but perhaps it was only andre i had seen .
or someone else .
a guest ?
there was no point in speculating .
i knew nothing , not even whether there was something i should know .
i went home again , and to bed .
as i waited for sleep , i wondered if west might have been seeking in east arkham something like that which i had found in the end .
probably not arkham may have been haunted by evils of its past , but i did not think that its puritan roots would have indulged aberrations such as his .
i thought i knew now at least one purpose of his trips to larger cities .
i envisioned him in a parlour rather like the one i knew so well dim , velvety , suggestive .
a curtain was drawn aside , and from behind it emerged a young man , dark , faun like , his face grave and beautiful , with high cheekbones and a mouth of self possessed irony .
he held out his hands , whispering..
i could go no further with these imaginings .
as i slipped toward sleep , i thought again of sweet , seductive sadie , the alluring way in which her eyes feigned innocence while her hands and mouth betrayed experience .
i saw her head on the pillow in a halo of bright hair , her lips slightly parted , her eyes like opals.. sleep is like death , some say , except that the dead do not dream .
chapter 18 he the artifex must have a most subtle mind and an adequate knowledge of metals and minerals .
but he must not have a coarse or rigid mind , nor should he be greedy and avaricious , nor irresolute and vacillating .
further , he must not be hasty or vain .
on the contrary , he must be firm in purpose , persevering , patient , mild , long suffering , and good tempered .
geber liber perfecti magisterii one day in late spring i looked up from my desk to see sarah enright in the doorway , looking a little uncomfortable .
principal cataloguer and head of the cataloguing department , she read the name plate on my door .
what a title !
it beats most of the ones we have in the hospital .
true power is never measured by the length of ones title .
come in , sarah .
i never thought id have a chance to welcome you to my domain .
i wouldnt have come , except im going to be away on a weeks leave soon , and theres something i have to talk to you about .
for some reason , i suspected that the thing sarah wanted to talk to me about concerned west .
gossip is an irresistible commodity to most people and , as far as i knew , that handy listening post by the shelflist still worked .
so i suggested an early lunch break .
there was a pleasant corner off the main campus quadrangle , with a couple of benches , a scrap of lawn and a large rose bush which was just starting to open its fragrant flowers .
sarah didnt waste time with preliminaries .
i think your friend dr. west is going crazy .
i nearly dropped my sandwich , but managed to ask , what makes you think that ?
well , maybe crazy is too strong but hes sure acting strange .
for one thing , hes working much too hard .
hes taken on two other doctors surgeries , dr. petersons and dr. littles .
petersons sick and littles going on a trip somewhere .
and hes losing his temper .
now dr. west never loses his temper , even when hes mad at someone .
but yesterday he yelled at nurse dempster for forgetting to put out an instrument , and today i heard him yelling at dr. shortt .
shortt was yelling too , but and he just doesnt look right .
what do you mean ?
well , you know how neat and tidy he always is ?
not today .
that suit he has on , hes been wearing it for days .
sleeping in it too , by the looks of things .
this sounded bad .
is he at the hospital ?
no , i think hes in his office at the med .
school .
but hes due to operate again this afternoon .
when did all this start ?
i first noticed it last week .
but i think hes been doing extra operations for a couple weeks .
its just catching up with him , i guess .
talking to west certainly had not helped before .
he had told me to mind my own business months ago .
but sarah had taken the trouble to come to me , and she was not even wests friend .
i was .
sarah , i hope you dont mind , but i have to cut our lunch short .
be careful , charles .
ill bet you havent seen him like this .
west looked up with a glare as i peered into the doorway of his office .
his face was pale and unshaven , his hair wildly disordered , necktie loose and vest unbuttoned .
what are you doing here ?
he asked .
herbert , i shouldnt have come , perhaps , but my second mistake , i realized , was to have come unprepared .
so why did you ?
i heard you were in some sort of trouble .
maybe i can help .
yes , of course !
how would you like to do a splenectomy in half an hour ?
or maybe you could give a lecture on skin grafting techniques later this afternoon .
look , charles , this is neither the time nor the place for a visit .
if i have troubles , theyre mine and i neither want nor need your help .
now please leave .
his voice grew quieter as he spoke , so that the last sentence was delivered in a near whisper .
there was something disturbing about this decrescendo .
his eyes were huge in a face that had surely grown thinner since i had seen him last .
murmuring an apology , i left .
but before i gave up i went to the hospital and sought out the office of the chief of surgery , dr. harold shortt .
i had never met dr. shortt , but i could not think what else to do .
i waited for twenty minutes in his antechamber until a starched but ornamental female was she a nurse or a secretary ?
conducted me into the presence .
dr. shortt bore a striking resemblance to the bolshevik leader , vladimir lenin , with which his yankee accent seemed at odds .
i introduced myself and said , dr. shortt , im a friend of dr. herbert west .
i was in dr. wests office just now , and i must say that he doesnt appear to be himself .
i thought i should bring this to your attention , since i understand hes carrying a heavy workload these days .
im concerned that he may not be fit to do all the surgery he has taken on .
youre a librarian , mr. milburn ?
thats right .
what makes you think you can tell whether a physician is fit to do his job ?
do they teach that in library school ?
no , but ive known dr. west for many years .
his appearance and behaviour today are most uncharacteristic .
believe me , i wouldnt have troubled you if i didnt think there was a good reason .
mr. milburn .
shortt stroked his beard and began speaking in what i assumed to be his lecturing style .
physicians are trained to endure long hours .
its part of our calling .
true , at times we become a little testy when were under pressure .
but knowing our limits is part of the job .
im sure dr. west is perfectly capable of operating or he would not do it .
now you must excuse me .
i have another appointment .
i could do no more .
i went back to my office , deeply troubled .
late that afternoon , finally immersed once more in my own work , i became conscious of a small commotion in the outer office .
i looked up when someone threw my door open without knocking .
it was west .
he looked , if anything , more dishevelled than before .
he leaned over my desk and without preliminaries said , you presumptuous bastard !
what did you think you were doing when you went to shortt ?
by taking it upon yourself to judge my competence you played right into his hands .
you would have done better to plunge a knife into my heart .
so listen well , because ill say this once only im finished with you .
i dont want to see you or hear from you again .
before i could find my voice he was gone .
as if this wasnt enough , there was a disturbing story in the arkham advertiser a day or two later a dangerous lunatic had escaped from sefton asylum after nearly twelve years of confinement .
he had been known as the wild man of arkham at the time of his incarceration early in 1912 , when he had committed a heinous deed .
officials at sefton were not prepared to speculate as to how this individual had managed to break out of the facility and elude capture , but the police warned residents of the district to be vigilant , since the escapee was considered extremely dangerous .
nothing more happened until a night in july .
i sat near an open window , listening to the small unknown sounds outside .
it had rained earlier and the air had a blessed coolness .
i could smell the freshness of wet grass and leaves , and the perfume of night scented stocks .
it had been dark for nearly an hour and i was thinking that it was time i went to bed , but inertia kept me where i was .
just then i heard light steps coming up the front walk and the verandah stairs , followed by a sharp knock on my door .
it was west .
without a word , i held open the door and stepped back .
he came in , murmuring a greeting , and fell into an armchair .
when i had switched on a lamp i was shocked at his appearance , even after the terrible scene a few weeks earlier .
he was no longer unkempt , but looked exhausted , the customary elegance of his clothing a harsh contrast to the weariness in his face .
he sat for a moment with closed eyes , then looked up at me and said , well , charles , its all up .
the career of dr. herbert west has been rather like a meteor fiery , fast , and now finished .
what do you mean ?
well , for one thing , hobson and edward clapham lee are plotting against me .
and for another , im being sued .
sued ?
by whom ?
the family of a patient , of course .
what patient ?
a boston banker , george hurley .
hes dead ?
at this he began to laugh .
no , hes not dead .
thats the problem , actually .
things might be better if he was .
i dont understand .
youd better start at the beginning .
yes , except im not sure where the beginning is , really .
he thought for a moment .
i suppose it was about six weeks ago .
hobson and vladimir began hinting that a certain member of the staff was not bearing as much of the load as the rest of the stalwarts .
this individual was getting undue attention from the press and the public by performing frivolous surgical pyrotechnics while the rest of them were putting their weary shoulders to the wheel .
excuse me , herbert , but who is vladimir ?
shortt , of course .
he looks just like lenin , wouldnt you say ?
you must have noticed , when you went to warn him about the unstable dr. west .
you played right into his hands , unfortunately , but now i know i cant blame you for everything .
you mean this is a plot of some sort ?
i think so .
you wouldnt believe it possible , would you , that a couple of elder professor doctors would use patients as pawns in a game of this sort , but it certainly seems that way .
the long and the short of it and yes , i meant that was that i foolishly accepted what i saw as a challenge .
peterson had just done a bunk , supposedly because of his nerves , and little simply had to go off to visit his old mother in darkest ohio .
so i took on their work .
after all , i told myself , it wouldnt be anything like my workload during the big pushes in the war .
but of course i was the only one at war here .
everyone else was just following their regular routines .
i should have known better .
that day you came to see me i had just about reached the end of my rope .
i eased up after that , but the damage was done .
word leaked out that west was finally slipping .
then along came george hurley , fat and fifty , with his hernia .
not the sort of thing i usually do any more , but hurley wanted his hernia fixed by the same hands that had repaired eleonora desanges face .
so i thought , what harm could there be in it ?
after all , i can do hernias in my sleep .
the trouble was , first , that the gentlemen of the boston press had been alerted of hurleys insistence .
one or two lively little stories appeared in the papers .
the other thing was that at the last minute i found that my assistant was to be pokey campbell dr. patrick campbell to you , charles .
now his job was to look after the anaesthesia , which is trickier than you might think .
it requires constant monitoring of the patients state , so that he is maintained at a steady level of unconsciousness but not pushed into a state of excessively deep unconsciousness , otherwise known as death .
well , pokey isnt the most reliable individual in the world .
hes too shaky to hold a scalpel , so has been relegated to minding the gas canister .
generally , i avoid him like the plague , but that day just three days ago , how much longer it seems everything went wrong .
when i got to the operating theatre , there was pokey goggling at me over his mask .
i knew i was in for it then .
i would have to do the surgery and monitor the anaesthesia too .
never mind that i hadnt slept in a week .
yes , i know i should have refused to go ahead , but vladimir and hobson had me figured out , all right .
well , you can imagine what happened .
the hernia was a little trickier than i had expected .
part of the problem was that hurley is a fat man , and everything took a little longer than usual .
the outcome was good , though , very good , or would have been except for one detail .
i had been too busy to check hurleys state .
pokey was off in dreamland somewhere , and by the time id sewn hurley up he was just slipping over the edge .
i alerted campbell to the fact that he had let the patient die , thanked the nurses for their help and left .
thats when i made my real mistake .
damn it , i didnt want to give in !
i got my revivification stuff and when i came back hurley was still on the table .
i guess no one knew what to do with him after i left so abruptly .
well , i set up the gear and pumped old george full of fluid before anyone showed up .
hed been dead less than an hour maybe thats why it didnt take very long for him to come back .
but of course he was still under the anaesthesia .
actually , it was interesting .
id never revivified someone who was in that state , but i suspect it contributed to the less than happy result .
the nurses came in with dr. shortt who else ?
to get hurley declared dead , and there i was , hovering over him and telling everyone , hes alive !
and he was , too , and still is , but in an apparently infantile state .
his family is determined to sue the negligent surgeon who reduced this pillar of the community to such a pitiful condition .
and drs .
hobson and shortt are encouraging them , i might add .
ironic , isnt it ?
he closed his eyes again .
so what might happen if they sue ?
i suppose youd have to pay damages of some sort .
i knew he was independently wealthy but had no idea of the amount that might be involved in a case of this sort .
west waved that aside .
that would be the least of my troubles .
if it were only the family and a neat little lawsuit , i could weather it .
but you cant imagine what a godsend this is for hobson and shortt .
theyve been busy for weeks , keeping notes on my mistakes , real and imagined .
theyll start up committees of inquiry and investigation and hound me out of arkham , and out of my mind too .
have you considered leaving arkham ?
you should be able to do well anywhere .
youd think so , but theres also the clapham lee business .
a war on two fronts , ill have , just like the bloody kaiser .
and i think my brothers are working on a little project of their own .
what clapham lee business ?
youll have to tell me more about that .
i really dont understand it .
neither does edward clapham lee , although he thinks he does .
west laughed again .
i have to ask you , herbert .
did you kill clapham lee ?
not if you know where to look .
but what i did or didnt isnt really the issue .
the issue is one of perception .
edward clapham lee , along with a cadre of lawyers , police and journalists , is likely to be hanging around my neck for the foreseeable future , sending out allegations of dark deeds committed in the shadow of the great war .
and hobson and shortt will be sniffing around too well , id rather be stood up against a wall and shot .
that at least would finish the business quickly .
i think they do that in france .
here in america its hanging , usually .
this was my sorry attempt to deflect his increasing hysteria .
well , even that would be preferable .
oh , and he laughed yet again , a little too heartily .
this is priceless .
the wild man of arkham is free once more and possibly still wild .
of course , you and i know him as john hocks .
i read about it in the newspaper .
i thought about telling you , but decided you probably knew .
i did indeed .
mr. hocks paid me a visit one evening .
unfortunately for him , i was not at home , as they say .
what do you mean , he paid you a visit ?
just what i say .
he came to the door .
when andre opened it , he ran away , but im sure ive seen him slinking about in the shrubbery since then .
no doubt he too has a score to settle with me , and is just waiting for his chance .
i dont dare go about unarmed these days .
he pulled a pistol from inside his jacket , a gesture i found more disturbing than reassuring .
he stood up , returning the weapon to its place of concealment .
look , charles , i wont keep you much longer .
im thinking up a plan of sorts to deal with all this , and ill need your help .
have you taken your summer holiday yet ?
i couldnt have been more surprised if hed asked me to dance .
no , im scheduled to take it in a couple of weeks .
why ?
could you advance it by a week or so say to next week ?
this plan of mine it should take you four or five days at most .
well , maybe a week .
thats if i decide to go through with it .
its drastic .
but it can not possibly succeed without you .
will you help me ?
when had i ever refused him my help ?
i didnt like the signs of paranoia i saw in him , or the tinge of hysteria in his manner , but i thought the fact that he had a plan in mind was a good sign .
of course ill help .
and i should have no difficulty changing my vacation to next week .
good .
now charles , i may ask you to drop everything and come in the next several days .
if i go through with this thing itll take all our time and attention .
and nerve too .
like our old experiments , i said .
just like that .
he did not seem ready to leave .
twice he started for the door and both times came back .
there was a moment of awkward silence , then he said , at a time like this , i wish i it would be good to have someone who he came closer to me .
charles , he said , its not lack of desire , but desires that are abnormal .
i had no idea what he was talking about but that word , abnormal , reminded me of his obsession with what he thought of as his flawed heredity .
these troubles must have reawakened it .
he stood silent before me .
the dim light from the lamp in the corner cast shadows beneath his cheekbones and in the caves of his eyes .
he had disarranged his hair by running his hand through it and it fell over his forehead .
in that moment i felt pity for him , something i once would not have thought possible .
he was now so near to me that i caught a faint scent of narcissus , probably from the stuff he used on his hair .
his eyes were rapt , enormous , his lips slightly parted .
slowly , he raised his hand .
his fingers brushed my cheek , the line of my jaw , flitted lightly over my lips .
he made as if to snatch his hand back , but i caught it in both of mine .
in my ears i heard a high , sweet , constant note , as though a harp string had been plucked and reverberated in the silent room .
i held his hand , thinking , of course hes troubled , and for the first time in his life he needs simple comfort from another human being , but he doesnt know how to ask for it , with all his nonsense about abnormality .
gently , i drew him toward me and embraced him .
his slight body was full of tension .
herbert , itll be all right , i said .
youll find a way out of it .
and ill help you , you can be sure of that .
he relaxed a little and laid his head on my shoulder like a tired child .
the moment lengthened as if to eternity , then passed .
he drew away from me with a sigh .
i wanted to reassure him further , but didnt know how .
herbert , if youre thinking ...
i know about you .
and its all right its all right with you , is it ?
are you sure ?
he asked , mockingly .
he kissed me on the lips , hard .
it felt like an attack , and i stepped back involuntarily , wiping the back of my hand over my mouth .
west laughed .
is it still all right ?
i admit , there have been times when ive wondered about you .
do you ever wonder ?
i can tell you now , you probably dont know what you have inside of you .
maybe you never will .
he moved toward the door , then turned back .
charles , youve been a good friend to me .
better than i deserve .
and then he was gone , into the darkness .
i stood for long moments with my hand pressed to my lips , until the perfume of night scented stocks had obliterated the scent of narcissus and the turmoil inside me had subsided .
the next day i went to dr. armitage and told him that urgent business required me to take my vacation the following week instead of the one after .
he readily agreed .
and what are you going to be doing with your two weeks ?
he asked .
well , i have business here in town first .
then cape cod for a week or so .
ah , you young fellows have all the fun !
footloose on the cape , and ill bet you wont be lonely , either .
i nearly started to laugh .
under the circumstances , i thought , that was quite ironic .
i dont intend to be alone , dr. armitage , i replied .
good luck to you .
he waved me out of his office .
i had decided that i needed an objective opinion on the matters that west had told me about .
sarah enright was pretty well my only source of information in the arkham medical community , apart from west himself .
while i valued her insights , i needed to talk to one of the doctors , who would be better able to judge how plausible were wests ideas about a conspiracy .
after some thought , i remembered john billington .
he had taken over wests practice in 1914 .
since then , he had moved it to bolton , as that was where most of his patients lived .
but i was fairly certain he retained ties with the arkham medical community and with miskatonic .
i telephoned him and made an appointment .
billingtons office was about half way up the hill from the river , with a view over its sinuous curves .
behind the building , the walls of the cathedral soared skyward .
billington greeted me cheerfully .
he was a stocky , brown haired fellow .
with his shirt sleeves rolled up , his vest half unbuttoned and jacket discarded on a nearby chair , he was a complete contrast to west .
i had to admit that were i in need of medical help just now i would feel better in billingtons hands .
and what can i do for you today , charles milburn ?
i dont believe ive seen you as a patient before .
i havent come to see you in a professional capacity today , dr. billington , i said .
not for my own sake , anyway .
i would like your opinion on a matter concerning our mutual friend , dr. herbert west .
west !
whats he gotten himself into now ?
he smiled , but a small frown creased his forehead as he spoke .
well , im not certain .
suppose i describe the situation as dr. west has explained it to me .
i laid out the main points of the hurley business , delicately hinting at wests suggestion that drs .
hobson and shortt had inveigled him into making unwise choices .
of course i omitted any mention of the revivification , merely suggesting that west had managed somehow to resuscitate the patient , but with unfortunate results .
i said nothing about the clapham lee matter , either .
west had refused to give me any particulars , and it was unlikely that billington would know anything about it anyway .
when i had finished , billington sat for a while without speaking .
he lit an evil smelling pipe and puffed on it .
then he got up and looked out of the window .
finally , he said , west is a peculiar fellow .
i cant say i know him well , even though we had some classes together .
and there were all those discussions at his dinner parties , of course .
but he wasnt exactly forthcoming about himself .
at first i had an idea he was a pure materialistic optimist .
but about the time he went off to the war i had begun to think otherwise , that it was just a veneer over something else .
i guess i started to wonder when he pulled that graduation stunt .
remember that ?
he laughed a little .
well , anyway , eventually i began to think he was a lot more finely balanced than he seemed .
as long as things were going in a way that he could cope with , increased intensity didnt seem to matter hed just spin faster , you might say , and leave the rest of us in the dust .
but if something came along that he couldnt fit into that peculiar world view of his , it would throw him off completely for a while .
then well , it was such a contrast near hysteria , wild accusations , a kind of self destructive mania .
luckily , these episodes never lasted very long .
hed think up some sort of plan and be in control again .
but would it be a good plan ?
i mean , a reasonable one ?
well , they usually worked out .
there might have been better ways to deal with the situations , whatever they were .
but west always came out on top in the end .
dr. billington , would you say that dr. west is well , crazy ?
no , only that he doesnt always cope well with uncertainty .
i always wondered how he managed over in france during the war .
do you think he has any reason to suspect a conspiracy against him ?
not a conspiracy , no .
but i know for a fact that he has enemies .
serious ones , going right back to his med .
school days .
that halsey business , for one thing .
sure , a lot of those old guys are out of the picture now , but a few are still there , and they have some big grudges against west .
you see , he has an unfortunate tendency to go a little too far .
its totally uncalled for too , like throwing rocks at a wasp nest .
i heard him thank old shortt once for the amount of business he generated for wests father the undertaker , you know .
shortt was going through a phase where he lost a lot of patients .
west said it so politely , too , and in such a complimentary tone , that shortt just about fell for it .
when the real meaning seeped through , he almost burst .
by then west was down the hall , laughing his head off .
that kind of thing doesnt win many friends .
or the deep freeze treatment he gives people sometimes .
but then west , you see , takes on this air of martyrdom , claims people hate him , et cetera .
and hes never managed to grow out of this habit .
all those innovations of his , too hed rush ahead and use them on patients , then complain of persecution when something went wrong and he was reprimanded .
in fact , thats one place where i was pretty sure hed come to grief in the end .
hes good , really good , but a doctor cant use patients as experimental subjects willy nilly .
something is sure to go wrong , and now probably something has .
but he does have enemies , yes .
does this help , or have i just confused you with my ramblings ?
i assured him that he had been most helpful .
as i was leaving , something else occurred to me .
dr. billington , have you heard can you tell me anything about that fellow that escaped from sefton , the wild man ?
billington eyed me curiously for a moment , as if wondering what my question had to do with west .
im not up on his case , naturally , he said , but i gather his physical state is not good .
hes subject to convulsions , apparently , but given his history can not be regarded as anything but dangerous .
surely you havent seen him ?
no , i havent , i said , and i hope i wont .
goodbye , dr. billington .
west is lucky to have a friend on his side .
i hope he realizes that .
good luck .
but i noticed that he didnt offer his own help .
that saturday , after i had finished work , i left my office with the good wishes of my staff ringing in my ears .
i had two weeks of leisure time ahead of me , except for the days i had committed to wests plan , whatever it might be .
by tuesday , having heard nothing from him , i was beginning to hope that his troubles had resolved themselves .
after a late lunch , i fired up almas old ford , which i had bought from her after her return from europe , and headed toward kingsport .
i needed to get away from arkham and its troubles .
i turned off on the same dirt road that alma had taken on that long ago day before the great war , when she , west and i had spent a lazy afternoon on the high cliffs .
the place was just the same .
here i still am , it seemed to say .
you come and go , but i remain .
the wind blew over the cliff top , stirring the grass tussocks that clung to the thin soil on the rock .
on the far horizon was a bank of high piled cumulus clouds , their battlements and crenellations like the gates of heaven .
i had intended to walk north , into a valley and up the slope beyond to the higher cliff top on the other side .
but when i descended , i found a steep , brush grown gully that discouraged further exploration .
out of the wind it was hot and airless .
a dense green smell of growing things filled the place .
no birds sang , but a humming of insects told of multitudinous beings pursuing their lives in this remote place .
underfoot , leaves of past summers had accumulated in a thick brown mat of humus through which the green grass had pushed .
i stood for long minutes , relishing the atmosphere , so alien to me after my desk bound existence .
eventually , the heat and insects became oppressive and my imagination began to turn every moving shadow into the shambling figure of john hocks .
i turned and toiled back up the way i had come .
lying down on the cliffs edge , i looked over the rim .
immediately below me , rocky shelves and ridges thrust out , obscuring the narrow strip of gravelly beach and making me forget that there was a drop of several hundred feet beneath my elbows .
it was rather exhilarating to lie there , as though suspended in the blue air of high summer , with the constant wind raking through my hair .
for some time , i lay and watched the clouds .
they slowly reshaped themselves , new forms ever arising , a constant succession of shapes superimposing themselves one on the other in an almost orderly way that reminded me of polyphonic choral music , where the overlapping voices make shapes of sound .
i heard again the miserere of gregorio allegri , as it had been sung at the cathedral recently .
the achingly beautiful , ethereal melody floated to my minds ear like the finest wisps of cirrus cloud high above .
tibi soli peccavi , et malum coram te feci ut iustificeris in sermonibus tuis , et vincas cum iudicaris .
ecce enim in iniquitatibus conceptus sum et in peccatis concepit me mater mea .
against you alone have i sinned and done evil in your sight it is right that you pass sentence and just that you give judgment .
for behold , i was born to transgression , and my mother conceived me in sin .
ecce enim veritatem dilexisti incerta et occulta sapientiae tuae manifestasti mihi .
asperges me hyssopo , et mundabor lavabis me , et super nivem dealbabor .
yet since you delight in truth , you have shown me the secrets of your wisdom .
sprinkle me with hyssop , and i will be clean .
wash me , and i will be whiter than snow .
for some reason these words from the fifty first psalm reminded me of west .
i should have asked him to come along today , i thought .
it would have done him good .
perhaps next week , after the business , whatever it is , is finished .
i fell to thinking then , about west and his troubles , real or imagined .
after my talk with john billington i had sought out sarah enright and asked her if she had heard anything about the hurley incident .
yes i did .
the nurses that assisted at that operation are friends of mine .
they said it was very strange .
just as dr. west was finishing , he checked hurleys vital signs and pronounced him dead .
thanks to you , he said to dr. campbell , and left the room .
the nurses didnt know what to do and campbell had made himself scarce .
they talked about it for a while and decided to go to dr. shortt .
shortt wanted to see hurley for himself , so they all went back to the operating room .
and there was dr. west , only this time he said hurley was alive .
and he was , too .
shortt checked for himself .
the trouble was , when he came out of the anaesthesia , he was like a child .
sarah , were your friends convinced that hurley was dead ?
well , i imagine they took dr. wests word for it .
neither of them would have gotten a stethoscope and listened to his heart , i dont think , but they would have felt for a pulse in his wrist .
if they said there wasnt one , i believe it .
and he wasnt breathing , either .
and how is he now ?
stronger , but still cant talk or do anything for himself .
maybe hell come out of it , maybe not .
it occurred to me that hurleys diminished capacities could have been caused solely by the oxygen deprivation resulting from over anaesthesia .
that is , even if he had not died and been revivified , he might have ended up in the same state .
in which case the fault was entirely dr. campbells .
from what west had told me , it was nearly impossible to predict someones post revivification mental capabilities .
but of course he could not very well present this argument to colleagues and a public who were ignorant of , and not receptive to , the entire concept of revivification .
under the sun and wind my anxieties diminished somewhat .
perhaps hurley would recover .
and west , with his resourcefulness , would surely come up with some way of confounding his enemies , even as i had tried to reassure him the other night .
the other night only then did i permit myself to think about what had passed between him and myself at the end of his visit to me .
a need for simple human comfort , i had explained it to myself then .
but i could no longer deny the internal cataclysm i had experienced when i had held him in my arms .
even his harsh and mocking kiss had excited me as much as it had repelled .
while i had thought of west as a fortunate being in the centre of things , i had admired him like a distant , brilliant star .
but when i learned something of his history i found that we had things in common .
could it be that the most important difference between us was that as a child i had known that my father was a good man , and that my mother loved me ?
thinking of these things , i drifted into sleep , and had a dream .
west and i were walking up a steep , grass grown slope toward a belt of storm twisted oaks .
above us , the sky was luminous with dawn .
beyond the oaks , the ground fell away sharply into a gully .
i hesitated at climbing down , but west did not .
come along , charles , he said , with a characteristic trace of impatience .
look , its quite easy .
here , take my hand and ill make sure you dont slip .
despite the impatience , he smiled up at me .
the slanting light touched his hair with fire , but left his face in shadow .
somehow , we found ourselves on the far side of the gully .
before us now was a house built on the very rim of the cliff .
west went to the door without hesitation .
here it is at last , he said .
this is the place where i will be married .
he opened it and went in .
i followed , full of fear and sorrow which clutched at my heart .
by the time my eyes had adjusted to the green dimness inside , west had opened another door in the far wall of the house , one that swung out into sun shot space .
herbert , wait !
i cried in a panic .
i ran forward , but my progress was slow , as though i ran through thigh deep water .
just as i reached him , he said , youve been a good friend to me , charles .
ill see you on the other side .
he stepped over the threshold into a blaze of light .
i tried to follow but could see only swirling mists before me .
far below , a white wave crest spent itself on rocks and sand .
terrified , i jerked myself backwards , and woke up .
a paralyzing sense of loss and loneliness filled me .
the bright day had faded and an enormous copper coloured moon was rising out of the pale mists that hid the place where the sky and sea joined .
i got up , feeling cold and stiff .
it took a long time for the mood of the dream to disperse .
even when i arrived at home i was haunted by it still .
that night i did something unusual for me .
i went to water street , to a tavern i knew , and drank until i no longer cared much about anything .
it was like a crude version of one of wests brain clearings , and without his diverting company .
but it worked .
chapter 19 one is the stone , one the medicine , one the vessel , one the method and one the disposition .
reitzenstein alchemistische lehrschriften when i awoke the next morning , i knew what i had to do .
despite an aching head and queasy stomach , i went to the library , letting myself into the silent building with the key that was one of the few privileges of my rank .
i went to the wing where the quarrington collection was housed .
off the main room was a small office for the use of researchers or librarians working with the material .
here , in a locked cabinet , was the thick file called profiles and predictions and the key to the codes by which the documents within it were identified , which i had bought from humphrey villard .
after discussing the matter with dr. armitage , i had restricted access to these documents , because of the nature of the information they contained about persons still living .
like the necronomicon , they could be consulted only after approval by a librarian , but the criteria were different for the present , only a person represented in the file or a member of his immediate family could see the material , and then only the file that pertained to that individual .
the names in the index were listed in alphabetical order .
i turned to the last page and found west , herbert f. it took me a few minutes to determine how the documents were arranged by their code numbers , but finally i found the one designated dx.37 31 59 .
it was a fairly thick document , and i hesitated before looking at it .
why was i doing this ?
because i wanted to know whether everything that had happened to me since i came to arkham was governed by chance or something else .
because i wanted to find out the nature of the resonant link that quarrington had supposedly created between west and myself .
because i wanted to know what fate quarrington had predicted for herbert west .
the first page contained biographical and statistical information on subject dx.37 31 59 .
date and place of birth and physical characteristics boston , november 7 , 1886 .
height 56 .
weight 137 lb .
hair colour blond .
eye colour grey .
yes , this was west , all right .
much of the data , although interesting in a way , meant nothing to me .
i learned that the subject had showed marked reactions to blue and green light , to the f dominant chord , to pin pricks on certain spots on the palms of his hands .
if i had been a tailor i could have made a suit of clothes for him using the detailed measurements quarrington had taken .
but a lot of it struck me as meaningless mumbo jumbo .
impatiently , i turned the pages .
here was a transcript of an interview .
the writing was rapid but legible .
the questions were marked , logically enough , q. , the replies by the subject , s. it was dated october 15 , 1906 .
west would have been not quite twenty years old .
q. how would you characterize your relationship with your father ?
s. until i was 15 i wanted to kill him .
i made plans several times .
then it occurred to me that it would be a better revenge to follow my own road at his expense .
q. why did you want to kill him ?
s. because he mistreated my mother .
for years after she left i thought he had murdered her .
q. was this a reasonable belief ?
s. i think it was , yes .
he is his own master .
no one else sets his course for him .
if he wanted her dead , he would kill her .
q. how did you feel about this moral code of your fathers ?
s. i hated it , but understood it too .
q. explain , please .
s. laws are created by men .
those who are able to , by cleverness or strength , may set them aside .
q. what about your mother ?
what are your feelings for her ?
s. i dont have any now .
after i finished mourning her disappearance , i put her image away and tried to forget her .
i nearly convinced myself that i was motherless , that i had created myself from things i found in my fathers house .
q. and your brothers ?
s. they are much older than i , and care for different things entirely .
i deal with them only when i must .
we have a working arrangement .
but i think the younger of them hates me .
q. why is that ?
s. he seems to blame me for our mothers disappearance .
i dont know why that is .
q. have you had any relations with women ?
s. not really .
i kissed a girl once , but thought better of it .
q. how do you deal with your sexual feelings ?
s. i try not to have any .
q. why ?
s. because i find them disturbing .
q. have you had any sexual experiences at all ?
s. yes .
q. explain , please .
s. id rather not .
q. why not ?
s. i find this subject disturbing .
q. it is necessary .
tell me , when did the first of these experiences occur ?
how old were you ?
s. i was nine years old .
and it was not by choice .
q. nine ?
who was the other person ?
s. persons .
there were two .
one of them was my brother , the younger one .
he was 14 .
q. i see .
and was this experience repeated ?
s. no .
the next time i had a knife .
q. did you tell your father ?
s. no .
i knew he preferred not to know about my little troubles .
q. what are your feelings toward your brother now ?
s. indifference .
i can not afford to hate him .
q and afterward ?
were there any other experiences ?
s. yes .
not many .
i try to avoid such entanglements .
q. why ?
s. i feel as though i am drowning .
or complete revulsion .
there is no middle ground .
i cant explain .
please dont ask me any more about this .
q. what is your greatest fear ?
s. being locked up .
losing the power to act .
q. what is your greatest desire ?
s. to be a spy in the house of death .
q. explain , please .
s. i want to know exactly what happens when someone dies .
so that someday , perhaps , i can reverse it .
there was more , much more .
wests interests and ideas on various topics , the places he had visited , his means of travel to these places , the significance of different numbers in his life .
eventually i stopped reading .
i felt for him a great compassion .
behind the clinical questions and answers of the text , i could visualize the two of them , quarrington , his blue eyes gleaming from under bushy eyebrows , scribbling down the answers given by the pale young man before him .
i guessed how much it cost west to give some of these answers , how hard he drove himself to do it .
for once i neither embellished nor omitted , he had said to me , surely in reference to this very interview .
i turned to the last part of the document then , to quarringtons assessment and predictions .
i reminded myself that west did not know what was written here .
quarrington described him as an unstable element with great potential for good or evil .
to avoid the pain of his invisible wounds , he has created for himself a cold veneer that separates him from others .
to discover his excellence it may be necessary to do him harm , perhaps destroy him .
the things revealed by his body are at variance with those shown by his mind .
this is very bad .
he will work at cross purposes with himself and do great harm unless he is transformed and unified .
he will die two deaths .
i do not know yet whether actual or symbolic .
before this he will fumble in ignorance with the ultimate things .
the salvation of this man is in the hands of one who loves him despite the above .
without this he may go down into his darkness and become a creature of pure evil .
but if he passes through the ordeals that await him with the help of his friend he will be transformed into that rare being one with power in his hands who subjects himself to the greater power .
a resonant link is absolutely necessary to ensure his salvation .
i had read enough .
my headache was worse , and i was beginning to feel resentful toward quarrington for speaking in hints and metaphors , toward west for dragging me into his troubles and complexities .
all i wanted to do was go home , drink a quart of water , and sleep for the rest of the day .
at home , i opened the windows , closed the curtains and threw off my clothes .
i filled a large glass with water , drank it , refilled and drank again .
just as i was about to fall into bed , there was a knock at my door .
cursing , i wrapped myself in a bathrobe and went to see who it was .
andre boudreau stood on my doorstep with his usual calm demeanour .
he appeared to be dressed for a journey and carried a duffel bag .
hello andre , i said .
what brings you here ?
good morning , mr. milburn .
dr. west would like you to join him for supper this evening .
eight oclock .
and the business afterwards , he says .
the business .
this was the summons , then .
he expected me to drop everything and come prepared for something requiring time , attention and nerve .
just now , i did not feel equal to such an enterprise and almost asked andre to tell dr. west to choose another day .
but then i remembered his distress and my promise to help him .
thank you , andre .
ill be there .
but it looks like youre going away .
yes , i go to boston .
an overnight trip .
i return tomorrow afternoon .
the doctor , he asked me to take some papers there .
he indicated the bag he carried .
he has some troubles now , yes ?
and you will help him ?
you are his friend , i know .
yes , he has troubles , i said .
and ill help him , if i can .
this was one of the longer conversations i had had with andre .
my exchanges with him before this had consisted of greetings and expressions of appreciation for the services he rendered to me as his masters guest .
i studied him , wondering again about the strangeness i had always seen in him , but never understood .
i decided now that part of it was his singularity of purpose .
he never seemed to be in a hurry , nor to have any personal concerns .
and yet , he never seemed dissatisfied either .
are you happy working for dr. west , andre ?
i asked .
yes .
i work for him always .
he gave me back my life .
gave you back ?
oh , i see .
you were wounded in the war and he healed you .
not just wounded .
i was dead .
he gave me back my life .
now i serve him always .
he smiled then , a smile that showed very white teeth and made his face come alive in a way i had not seen before .
i see .
well , good luck on your journey , andre .
and thank you .
when he had gone i sank down on my bed .
how had i not guessed the truth before ?
andre was one of wests successful revivification subjects !
the man i had just spoken with had been dead and had been restored to life by herbert west .
the fact that i had not realized this in five years was eloquent testimony to the effectiveness of the procedure in this case .
i slept for several hours .
when i awoke it was early evening and time to prepare for the business at hand .
something about the formality with which andre had spoken the invitation made me take more than usual care with my preparations .
i washed thoroughly and put on clean linen and one of my better suits .
it was a soft golden evening .
a haziness around the descending sun spoke of possible rain later on .
west himself admitted me into the house on boundary street , since andre was still away .
he looked like a bridegroom , in a beautiful summer suit of some light coloured fabric , with a vest and necktie in pale contrasting colours .
his face was thinner , but his remarkable grey eyes were full of light .
welcome , charles , he said , formally shaking my hand .
come into the parlour .
its good of you to be so prompt , particularly since you are in a fragile state , i see .
i mumbled something about overdoing it the night before , but i was encouraged by the ebullience of his greeting .
surely it meant that he had found a way out of his troubles .
perhaps hurley was better or west had come up with a really devious plan .
the room looked emptier than i remembered it .
the paintings by dixon taylor , the ebony clock and the silver candlesticks were no longer in their accustomed places .
some articles of furniture were also absent .
the phrase cleared for action came to mind .
so he is leaving arkham , i thought .
thats why hes happy .
dinner first , then business , said west , conducting me to the dining room .
mrs. fisk has quite outdone herself on our behalf .
unfortunately , she has had to go home early , so we must be content to dine a deux .
the meal was indeed dainty and varied .
my host served me himself , making sure that i tried a little of everything , and that my wine glass was replenished when necessary .
the grace with which he did these tasks spoke of the pleasure he found in them .
he himself ate little , but with evident enjoyment .
our conversation was leisurely , of matters without urgency .
i was reminded of the first supper we had shared , long ago .
on wests hand was the emerald ring his mother had given him .
this was the first time i had seen it since her death , and it made me a little uneasy .
i learned something from andre this morning , when he came by with your invitation .
he was one of your revivification subjects , out there in france , wasnt he ?
one of the successful ones .
yes , and it has certainly taken you long enough to figure it out , he said , laughing a little .
i thought you realized it from the first , so didnt bother explaining .
what was it that finally tipped you off ?
i admitted that andre himself had told me .
but how did it happen ?
can you tell me more about that ?
of course .
what harm can there be in it now ?
it was in august of 1917 .
there were some terrible battles that month lens and hill 70 .
and that was before the real carnage of passchendaele .
when i first saw andre he was still alive .
he was waiting with some others for one of us to attend to him , but he died before anyone managed to do so .
there was something about him a great desire to live , unlike the resignation that so often appeared in men as near to death as he was .
i hoped to return him to the life he had been so reluctant to leave , so i took the risk and revivified him .
the trickiest part was dealing with his injuries before the new life ran out of him .
i had more tools at my disposal by then , so i managed it .
then it came down to the old question of mental capacity .
it was soon evident that he was a complete amnesiac .
not a scrap of memory remained to him of anything before his death .
his army records said his name was andre boudreau , from somewhere in new brunswick .
an acadien , he is .
so i began by speaking to him in french .
eventually he regained the power of speech , and i found he retained the ability to learn .
i pulled some strings then , and had him returned to a semblance of active service as my batman .
the fellow i had before was keen to see action , so everyone was happy .
i thought that the simple tasks i would require of andre would be an excellent test of his abilities .
and as you have seen , he has performed brilliantly these past five years .
between them , he and mrs. fisk have quite spoiled me .
he looked a little sad , as though a cloud passed before his sun .
do you pay him ?
i asked .
of course i pay him !
do you imagine that i would take advantage of the fellow because of his situation ?
my transgressions are of a different sort .
when the war ended , i made it clear to him that he was free to go home if he wished , but the concept had no meaning for him .
so he chose to stay with me .
he must have quite a good bank account by now .
he should do well enough , even if i more dessert , charles ?
no ?
well , in that case we may as well go to the study and get on with the business .
in the study i had another surprise .
the place had been tidied up .
gone were the heaps of papers , and the books were for once arranged neatly on the shelves .
looking more closely , i noticed that an attempt had been made to group them by subject matter .
west smiled .
its not up to your standards , im sure , but you have to give me credit for trying .
very commendable , i said .
but surely you wont be able to find anything now ?
oh , believe me , that wont be a problem .
and now herbert , i interrupted , are you leaving arkham ?
is that why ?
i suppose you could say that .
or perhaps arkham is leaving me .
i will explain everything in good time .
but first let me fill up your glass .
i was already feeling the effects of the wine i had drunk during the meal , but made no objection .
wests hand as he poured was quite steady and i noticed that he drank nothing himself .
so this is the same plan you mentioned the other night ?
hurley is no better , then ?
he shrugged .
its hard to say .
hes no worse , at any rate , and may improve in time .
but thats not really the issue any more .
the plan is this im going to disappear .
with your help , dr. herbert west of arkham will cease to exist .
and under cover of his funeral i shall , with luck , leave to make myself anew elsewhere .
ill be a clean slate .
a tabula rasa .
funeral ?
oh , you mean youre going to fake your own death .
but surely thats too i was feeling somewhat muzzy headed , and thought i might have misunderstood him .
no .
ill fake nothing .
to put it simply , charles , i am going to die .
tomorrow at dawn , or to be more precise , at seven a.m. you will deal with the authorities .
once theyre satisfied with the situation and im officially pronounced dead , you will revivify me .
and youll arrange my funeral , whether i need it or not .
i could only stare at him in horror .
i looked at his face for an indication that he was making some sort of elaborate joke at my expense .
there was none .
under the blitheness of his manner he was quite serious .
herbert , that is utter madness .
you cant possibly mean to do it .
yes , its mad , and yes , i intend to do it .
the very madness of the thing is what will make it work .
you see , once the machinery of death takes over the death certificate , the obituaries , the funeral , all that everyone will think they know exactly where i am , so no one will look for me anywhere else .
except you , but youll have your hands full for a few days .
he grinned like a child who has just pulled off a trick on an incredulous adult .
i had so many objections i didnt know which one to voice first .
but herbert , you could end up like like george hurley .
or worse .
visions assailed me of his mercurial personality lost behind dull , clouded eyes and slack jawed idiocy .
remember , i was there when we did all those revivifications .
all those poor wretches , struggling up from death only to lapse back into it , or looking at us with glassy eyes , or raving insanely .
and what about hocks and obrien ?
do you really want to end up like that ?
what in your life could possibly be worse ?
theres always a risk .
but most of those cases you remember were morgue denizens .
if the procedure is carried out well within six hours after death the chances of success are much better .
i am confident of that .
look at andre .
oh yes , i dont deny it , the whole thing is an enormous risk .
but consider if it succeeds ill be free of all that nonsense .
he waved a hand in the general direction of the campus .
i can begin anew , make myself all over again .
but surely you can do that without killing yourself first , by god !
why not just resign , sell up , say goodbye to arkham and begin anew somewhere else ?
it doesnt even have to be in this country london , toronto , paris , anywhere .
it would follow me .
make no mistake , charles .
once this kind of mud sticks to you its impossible to wash it off .
no matter where i go as herbert west , someone will always turn up with a shovel and do some digging .
my life will never be my own , and i cant tolerate that .
so change your name .
youd have to , anyway , if this crazy scheme of yours succeeded .
so just do that , and skip the dying .
too simple .
as long as im known to be at large theres always the chance someone will find it worthwhile to come after me .
you dont seem to realize how serious my situation is .
on the contrary , ive been thinking a lot about your situation , and i cant see that anyone has anything to charge you with .
theres no evidence .
whatever youve done , im sure you havent left anything around that could be used against you .
he smiled , a tight , hard smile .
you give me too much credit .
ive been careful , but its impossible to hide everything .
over ten years or more , its inevitable that people will have seen or heard things .
and on a few occasions , ive slipped up .
that aylesbury pike business , for one .
its only a matter of various individuals pooling their knowledge .
then the police will turn up on my doorstep , warrants in hand and carte blanche to search my house from attic to cellar .
the very existence of my private laboratory and the incinerator would be enough to incriminate me , in some minds , anyway .
then there are other things i have destroyed a good deal , these past weeks , but its impossible to do it all .
you give me the horrors , herbert .
is there so much , then ?
more like leavitt , i mean ?
for a second , weariness flitted over his face .
i promise you , ill tell you everything .
tonight .
but first i must ask you to give me your word that you will carry out this plan as i have described it to you .
describe it again .
in detail .
first of all , how are you going to die ?
surely you dont expect me to kill you ?
no , charles .
ill take care of that part myself .
once im dead , youll leave here , making sure that no one sees you go .
when mrs. fisk finds my body , shell notify you and the police .
after theyve done their bit and you have the certificate of death in hand , you will revivify me , and well see what happens next .
so youve informed mrs. fisk of her role in all this , i said .
when she finds you shell be putting on a performance , is that it ?
dont be an idiot .
mrs. f. is an excellent housekeeper , but i had no intention of making her an accomplice .
or andre .
thats why i sent him away .
no , mrs. fisk will be entirely unprepared , which is why her performance will be quite natural and unforced .
youre the only one who will be called upon to do any acting .
his lack of discernment amazed me .
have you considered the effect on mrs. fisk , to come in to work and find her employer dead on the floor , when he was alive and well the night before ?
no , he said , looking surprised .
what effect ?
i threw up my hands .
herbert , you really are the limit .
look , i think it had better be me that finds you .
i told armitage and one or two others that i have some business here in town before i leave for my holiday .
the business will be with you .
well have had a pleasant evening here and will arrange to meet tomorrow morning , to discuss investments .
thats it , youll be giving me advice on investments .
when you dont answer the door , ill call the police , because ill have no reason to expect you not to be here i broke off in horror , realizing how readily i had fallen in with his crazy plan .
very good , charles !
you see , youre a conspirator after all .
certainly , go ahead and spare the good mrs. fisks feelings , if thats what you want .
she usually arrives about half past nine , by the way .
but i think youre making too much of it .
after all , im only her employer .
for the last five years , i said .
and before the war , too .
and what about andre ?
hell come home only to be told that youre dead .
hes devoted to you .
it was written all over him when he talked to me this morning .
and he knows youre having troubles .
he asked me if i was going to help you .
and i will too , though i dont know why .
ive never known anyone so oblivious to the feelings of those who love him .
realizing what i had let slip , i got up from my chair and went over to the window to hide the fact that i was blushing .
outside , the evening was melting into night .
the world beyond the window seemed infinitely remote , as though it was withdrawing from me .
i thought i will see and hear and think and do unimaginable things before i walk freely in those streets again .
i glanced at west .
he was staring into space , looking as though someone had hit him .
in a way , i supposed i had .
love , he said , is an irrational emotion .
but surely youre misinterpreting the situation .
mrs. fisk is a practical woman .
i dont think you would find her fainting over my corpse .
as for andre , hes devoted , yes , but its only because of his dependence on me since his return to life .
its the devotion of a good dog , nothing more .
i could argue with you on both those points , i said .
but i wont .
because youre missing something obvious here , arent you ?
someone , rather .
me .
you ?
but im telling you everything .
youre a privileged creature .
exactly .
ive been privileged to be your friend , all these years .
over that time it was inevitable that i would develop some feeling for you .
friendship , yes , but more than that .
and now you ask me to help you kill yourself .
think about that before we continue .
he was silent for a moment .
then , thats why im asking this of you , he said .
you are the only person in the world of whom i can ask this .
without you it would be only suicide .
but you can restore my life to me no , even better , you can give me an entirely new life .
i remembered then , reluctantly , the words i had read just that morning .
quarringtons words the salvation of this man is in the hands of one who loves him .
now i knew .
now i understood .
if he was a bridegroom , his chosen bride was death .
and i , it appeared , had no choice at all .
all right , i said , leaving the window and returning to my chair .
i think i understand why it has to be me .
but what i dont understand is why you have to do it at all .
tell me that part again .
he poured into my glass the last of the wine , his hand trembling ever so slightly .
i picked up the glass and watched the light glow ruby red inside it .
everything has its price , west said , and sometimes its necessary to pay before the bill falls due , because by then it will be too late .
that time , for me , is now .
dont imagine that i havent been tempted to wait , on the unlikely chance that things might work out by themselves , but i know that once in the clutches of the law , ones choices become very limited .
when i was sixteen or so , in boston , i attended several trials associates of my fathers .
their names and the crimes they were charged with arent important .
after that , i resolved never to become enmeshed in the machinery of justice .
it wasnt that i objected to justice in the abstract , but to her servants .
she may be blind and impartial , but they certainly are not .
it wasnt even the corruption that disillusioned me , but the way in which a man charged with a crime becomes the property of the state .
even if he is found innocent in the end , the mark of the shackle remains on him forever .
thats something i will risk the shadow of death to escape .
but dont you believe that a man should be accountable for his deeds ?
i fell easily into my old role of devils advocate .
yes , but not to smug officials who visibly enjoy their petty power over the accused .
not to corrupt judges who hand out punishments with hands that are unclean .
think of it this way , if you like ill just skip a few steps and put my self my entire self at the disposal of what you call god .
cut out the middleman , you could say .
so you see it as a kind of trial by ordeal ?
i was intrigued by this , not only the idea itself , but the fact that west had suggested it .
i think youre becoming a romantic , herbert .
perhaps i am .
but there are other reasons .
i couldnt tolerate imprisonment .
the firing squad , yes , even the noose .
hanged , drawn and quartered , i dont care .
but not incarceration .
id rather take my chances with your friend thanatos .
i hardly think it will come to that , do you ?
investigations , maybe a trial , but in the end wait until youve heard everything im going to tell you , then ask yourself that question again .
a few days ago , i went to see hocks again , actually see him , there at sefton , in his cell .
they kept him in solitary confinement all these years , you know .
twelve years in a room eight feet by ten , without a window .
that was my doing , i admit it now .
if i hadnt meddled with him , he would have been peacefully dead all this time , dead and rotten .
instead , he was a horror .
he looks bleached , like something thats been living in a cave .
his hair is white and his skin dead white .
but his eyes were the same .
he shook his head , then rested his elbows on his knees and studied the floor .
why did you do that ?
go to see him ?
i thought you hated going there .
i did , and do .
its a prison .
i suppose i thought it was time i followed up on that particular experiment .
better late than never .
he smiled , or rather moved his lips in a spasm that vaguely resembled a smile .
after viewing the results , i took the only logical course of action .
i bribed one of the warders to let him escape .
what ?
you are responsible for hockss escape ?
why , herbert ?
hes dangerous !
you know what he did that other time those terrible murders .
i jumped to my feet .
we cant , we have to relax , charles , west said , with something of his old manner .
hocks isnt the man he was then , any more than i am .
hell do no more murders , except mine , if i let him .
im certain hes lurking nearby , probably waiting his chance in the shrubbery .
have you heard of any other sightings ?
i assure you , there will be none .
the good people of arkham may rest easily .
i decided not to argue the point and let west resume his explanation .
then there are my brothers .
i suspect theyre planning a surprise for me as well , a fatal surprise .
over the years , i found it necessary to work out a number of quid pro quos with them , but a few months ago i told them things had changed and i couldnt guarantee my end of the deal any more .
this made them anxious , because all they have on me is misuse of dead bodies and unprofessional conduct , while i have information about their doings that could lead to serious entanglements with the police .
once they find out im under investigation myself , theyll have even more reason to hasten my demise .
why ?
because its likely that some prosecutor will think he can capture two wests for the price of one , by negotiating something with me .
thats how lady justice really works .
whatever plans hiram and jeremy have in mind for me , revivification will not be an option afterward .
their enemies tend to make their exits in ways involving dynamite , fire or corrosive substances .
well , but if a prosecutor wants to negotiate with you , why not ?
surely that would be better than ?
and here i thought you were a man of principle !
well , i suppose i can have no pretensions to honour now , but they are my brothers , after all .
their mother was my mother .
and besides , to enter into those negotiations would make me as much a property of the state as being charged and tried myself .
its not whom you dance with that counts , but the fact that youre at the ball .
the other thing is one you know about already .
ever since my mother turned up , ive wondered about my heredity .
this fear was confirmed in retrospect by things that happened in france , before i ever knew that she was a madwoman .
its completely illogical perhaps i am becoming a romantic , for which i must surely blame you , charles , but i see this experiment as a way to escape the legacy of my parents madness and murder , or simply madness .
itll be a kind of reverse birth , and a test , like you said .
if i can come through it reasonably intact , mentally and physically , ill be a different person .
its the ultimate experiment , isnt it ?
all these years i have presumed to drag others back from death .
i think its only right that i take that journey myself now .
theres only the one chance , of course , but think of the possibilities !
his face lit up with genuine enthusiasm .
almost i found myself swept along with him .
it was true that none of our subjects had known what was being done to them .
west would be going willingly and with his eyes open .
but no , it was still absurd .
arent you afraid of death ?
i realized with amazement that i had never asked him this question before .
no .
truly , im not .
its dying one fears , not death .
the method ill use is completely painless .
ill pass from life to the unknowingness of death in a matter of minutes .
but if its forever ?
if the revivification doesnt work , for whatever reason ?
then ill never know , will i ?
no , im not afraid .
he didnt look at me as he said this .
his glance slid over me and fell to the carpet .
but your work !
its been so important to you .
now itll remain unfinished , unless you my work here is finished , in any case .
my future as herbert west contains only lawsuits , inquiries , investigations , lawyers , trials , sudden violent death or a long imprisonment .
ive already heard that the massachusetts medical association is preparing to suspend me until investigations have been completed .
no , that life is finished , and i reject the other options open to me .
that leaves only one road , a dark one , but its the one i choose .
jumping to his feet , he began to pace around the room in his old manner .
thats it , you see !
this is what i choose .
this is my choice .
the other way i become only flotsam on someone elses river .
he stopped before me , and asked , well , whats your answer ?
will you help me once more , for the last time ?
his tone was light but i thought it was a forced lightness , and his face was set in anxious lines i had never seen before .
i was beginning to see that his state of mind was far more complex than i had imagined .
this was more than simple despair at recent reversals .
what i saw before me had taken his whole lifetime to develop .
no longer did i believe that i could bully or argue him out of his desperate scheme .
but still without understanding , i tried .
what if i say no ?
what will you do then ?
the same , probably .
i have no desire to live under the terms i am being offered .
so i think i would do anyway what i have resolved to do .
except that without you there will be no returning .
i did not reply immediately .
were his words mere histrionics ?
i did not think so .
deluded he might be , but he was sincere .
if i turned my back on him now , he would surely die .
and i , who had made such an issue of my friendship for him , would be proved a liar .
whether by heredity , temperament or inclination , or perhaps only by mischance , he was alone as i could not even begin to imagine .
he was outside , nearly completely so .
he had only one tenuous link to the ordinary world .
that link was me .
he had only me .
yes , herbert , i said , ill help you .
and maybe not for the last time .
he looked at me without speaking .
then , thank you , charles .
i am enormously in your debt .
he sat down again , facing me , and said , thats why im telling you all this .
because i need to settle my account .
im willing to pay the price for what ive done , but someone has to know what it is im paying for .
youre that someone .
he smiled once more , the smile that had captivated me from the first .
are you ready to hear the confession of herbert west ?
yes , im ready .
but i was afraid .
he took a deep breath .
all right .
well , you already know about leavitt .
yes , leavitt , i said .
what were you thinking when you stuck that needle into him ?
all i could see was the opportunity he represented .
i desperately needed good experimental subjects and there were none available .
then he came along , a stranger , far from home and pretty much unlooked for here .
i asked him in and made some pretext to leave the hall for a minute while i got the drug .
i didnt let myself think .
i came back and hit him with it .
was he the only one you murdered ?
no .
clapham lee he paused .
charles , brigadier general sir eric moreland clapham lee , d.s.o .
was a greedy opportunist .
and that justified killing him ?
no , of course not , but i didnt know him at all when i told him about my research .
you told him about revivification ?
no , only about the tissue regenerating substance .
you see , when i met him in 1914 he was one of the foremost surgeons in england , and he seemed to welcome progressive ideas .
i needed a congenial colleague with whom to discuss my new work .
someone who understood the technical points .
so in a moment of enthusiasm , i told him about it and invited him to collaborate with me .
this was shortly before the war began .
when it did , we were both keen to go because of the possibilities for furthering our research , as much as anything else .
and we did .
or i did .
clapham lee played me like a fish , handing out privileges in exchange for data .
thats how i got my laboratory , there at etaples , and some equipment and other things .
but in 1917 he revealed his true motives .
he saw the whole thing as an opportunity for profit clinics that would cater to wealthy people who wanted their faces altered , for whatever reason .
he wanted to establish them immediately after the war ended .
to him it was only a business opportunity , not scientific research at all !
he thought he was flattering me by asking me to be a partner in this venture , although i suspect he was planning to get me out of the picture as soon as he could .
he and my father would have gotten along beautifully .
finally he had everything but the details , the actual formula for the stuff .
i was pretty sure hed been trying to work it out in secret , but without success .
so he gave me an ultimatum either i reveal everything to him or he would suspend my special privileges and bring the whole weight of army rules and regulations down on my head .
this came at a bad moment for me , and so for him too .
i decided to excise his arrogance .
one night i agreed to meet with him in my laboratory , on the pretext of negotiating terms .
i killed him there and revivified him later .
much later .
he was alive , but only in the physical sense .
the body functioned but the mind was gone .
he was a complete amnesiac , like andre but worse , because he had lost the ability to learn .
i made a new face for him and when the incisions had healed sufficiently , i let him loose .
he was quite the little mystery until they shipped him off to england .
wait a minute , herbert , i said .
you took this mans life , then gave it back , but stripped him of his mind , his memories , his links to his family , friends , even himself , and let him go into the world with nothing ?
surely that was excessive ?
he sighed .
yes , it was excessive .
and its coming home to me .
hobson told me just last week that edward clapham lee expects to be here soon , bringing with him an associate , a casualty of the war who is instrumental in his search for his lost father .
now i have no doubt that this individual is sir eric himself .
whether his son has figured that out , i dont know .
perhaps clapham lee left some written documents naming me .
perhaps he has even managed to remember something and regained the power of speech , unlikely though it seems .
i imagine his son hopes that the sight of me will prompt a return of memory in this associate of his , who will then make significant revelations .
little does he imagine how significant .
i have no idea whether this would work and dont intend to find out .
after leavitt , i thought i would be doing the world a favour , taking myself and my murderous tendencies to a place where killing was permitted , even encouraged .
but i was wrong .
the war time passed so quickly then .
the great battles , ypres , the somme , vimy ridge , passchendaele thats when i really lived .
the times in between for me were full of meaningless routine and vices without pleasure .
i lived for the bloody times , when men were lined up twelve deep in the triage area , with trainloads arriving every hour .
i worked like a butcher at my trade , in reverse you might say , except for the amputations , of course .
when id done what i could for the living , there remained the dead .
some i restored to true life , as i have told you .
but the others sometimes i created unique monstrosities for my own amusement all short lived , fortunately .
i shot any that showed signs of persistence .
he looked at me , and the contrast between his clear grey eyes and the horror of his words made me shudder .
i remembered how at the prizefight , he had been the only man unmoved by the brutal spectacle .
he had recalled me to myself when i had allowed the frenzy to overwhelm me .
was it the war that had changed him or something in himself ?
he thought for a moment , looking down at his hands .
i was almost relieved when clapham lee delivered his ultimatum and gave me a reason to stop .
even so , i couldnt resist taking my revenge on him .
that was the worst of it .
what do you think of your old friend now , charles ?
that was the worst ?
but what about that strange wandering creature on the aylesbury road ?
i had not forgotten the mutilations sarah had described .
that was like the corpses from the morgue you and i worked on before the war .
a mindless thing .
i was surprised that it managed to escape .
how did that happen ?
there was a major misfortune .
youll laugh the incinerator broke down .
i discovered that just as i was preparing to dispatch the creature when it had served its purpose .
i didnt want to keep it on the premises , alive or dead .
so i decided to take it out to hangmans hill , finish it off and bury it .
but it got away .
but the the mutilations that you did on it .
what were they for ?
torture ?
no .
thats something ive never done .
they werent mutilations , either it was practice for surgery .
if people werent so squeamish about these things , some human bodies could have quite useful careers after death .
and the anti vivisectionists might be appeased too , but i doubt it .
no , theyd probably form a society for the protection of revivified entities or something of the sort .
but thats nothing new , of course .
the public can display an astonishing degree of irrationality , especially under the influence of the popular press .
take robert knox , for example .
who was he ?
a physician in edinburgh , scotland .
about a hundred years ago .
you may recognize him if i said that he was the best customer of messrs. burke and hare .
no ?
they were murderers , charles .
every medical student is told their story , why im not sure .
a cautionary tale , perhaps .
some think it exemplifies the adventurous beginnings of the profession .
to me it says only that there are always men willing to sell and others who are prepared to buy .
but dr. knox , now , hes a little more interesting .
he was an anatomist at a time when dissection of corpses was considered by the ignorant public to be an extreme violation .
some thought that it would interfere with the process by which body and soul would be reunited at the last judgment , so there were severe restrictions placed on the kinds of bodies that could be used for scientific purposes those of criminals , mostly .
i suppose it was thought that their souls were doomed anyway , so it didnt matter if they couldnt find their bodies again .
demand far exceeded supply , of course , so the vacuum was filled in ways other than legal ones .
burke and hare murdered sixteen people , mostly by suffocation , and delivered the corpses to knox , who paid well and asked no questions .
eventually they were caught and hare was persuaded to testify against burke in return for his freedom .
burke was convicted and hanged .
ironically , his corpse was turned over to the anatomists for dissection .
a professor alexander monroe was the lucky recipient .
hare went free .
knox , on the other hand , was neither charged nor tried , except by the press .
they hounded him relentlessly , despite his claim that he didnt know that the corpses he bought were the products of murder .
he was an old army surgeon and showed considerable resilience in the face of the mob .
he formed a committee to make an impartial inquiry into his conduct , and it cleared him of legal responsibility , but even that didnt turn public opinion .
knox was shunned .
his colleagues didnt come to his aid because he hadnt gone out of his way to curry favour with them and was considered arrogant .
now who does that remind you of ?
he asked , with a smile .
and he didnt do any murders himself , only bought the products of murder .
he died a poor man and possibly a broken one , in london .
i dont imagine that theres much difference in the public mind between edinburgh a century ago and arkham today , when it comes to these things .
no matter that many are now enjoying health and freedom from pain as a direct result of my work with revivified corpses .
that wanderer on the aylesbury pike , about whom youve been so concerned , contributed directly to the prolonging of the life of a worthy woman , a wife and mother who was stricken with cancer of the breast .
removal of those organs was the only possible solution , and i accomplished the procedure with minimal disfigurement by working out my techniques on that unfortunate creature .
he stopped speaking , his face a little flushed .
and youre absolutely convinced that these creatures were mindless ?
absolutely .
it would have been impossible to use them as i did otherwise .
could they talk ?
no , of course not .
no more than a stone can talk .
there was at least one who could .
i know , because i heard it .
oh ?
when was that ?
he looked startled .
i came here and looked around while you were in new york , operating on eleonora desanges .
those keys you gave me back in 1914 , remember ?
i didnt have one for the laboratory annexe , of course , but i heard someone in there , groaning and calling out to god .
only once , though .
he sighed .
why didnt you tell me ?
i was afraid to .
you were angry enough at my investigations as it was .
youre right , i was then .
i know better now .
one final question how many were there in all , of these creatures ?
eleven .
so .
you killed leavitt on impulse and clapham lee for revenge .
in france you created and killed things you call monstrosities for your own pleasure .
you left that wretched groaning thing alone in your cellar .
and you revivified ten other corpses to make creatures you believed to be mindless so you could carve them up for practice .
yes , that sums it up very neatly .
what price love now , charles ?
his face was still and empty .
i felt sick .
didnt you dont you feel any regret , remorse ?
is that why ?
you forget , charles , that i was present when these deeds were done .
i saw no pain or suffering as a result of my actions .
it has never been my desire to cause suffering .
but clapham lee he was your friend , wasnt he ?
or a colleague at least .
and whoever that was in your cellar i heard despair in his voice .
he stared at me , eyes burning coldly in his white face , which suddenly looked ten years older .
despair .
i know what that is now .
isnt that enough for you , judge milburn ?
whats your verdict ?
i stood up and placed myself before him .
you realize , herbert west , that youre in my power now .
i could choose to denounce you to the law .
i could watch you kill yourself and go away , leaving you dead .
or i could go away right now , leaving you alone to deal with your troubles .
youve made me your judge , jury and executioner .
and i can play that last role by doing nothing at all .
exactly .
but whatever you decide , for me there are only two possibilities .
death , or death and revivification .
the second choice is yours alone .
i remembered once more the march day i had first met him the springing vitality , the excitement he radiated , the suggestion that he moved about wrapped in his own special atmosphere .
he had captured me that day , and if i had made attempts during the following twelve years to free myself from this enthrallment , my efforts had never been very serious .
for me , a world without herbert west was a diminished world .
even now .
but how could that be ?
he was a self confessed murderer , a cold hearted exploiter of helpless creatures , a liar and a deceiver .
surely the world would be better without him ?
for all i knew , his present desire for death was to be welcomed and encouraged by all right thinking people .
if i revivified him i would be responsible for inflicting him on the world again .
indeed , i already bore that responsibility , ever since the death of robert leavitt .
but there were factors at work that had nothing to do with me .
feeling restless and cramped , i went to the window .
outside , instead of the darkness of a summer night , was a strange blue twilight .
the familiar trees and nearby houses were gone , as though shrouded in mist .
directly under the window stood a man , a thin grey clad figure .
his hollow eyes stared up at me out of a white face .
suddenly , i knew him .
john hocks .
he was not alone .
behind him was an inchoate mass of heads , shifting and bobbing , appearing and disappearing .
there were dozens of them .
herbert , come here !
look !
west came over .
yes , its hocks .
ive seen him standing there like that the past three nights .
he just stands and stares , but hes usually gone by morning .
well , his wait will soon be over .
but those others , who are they ?
having watched them , i realized that they shifted as a single mass , a miasma of ghosts .
the mist around them made it difficult to discern details , but i thought i recognized some of them .
there was kid obrien , his broken nose and bloody face making him stand out from the rest for a moment .
another might have been robert leavitt , and still others reminded me of faces i had seen lying still in death or grimacing in renewed agonies .
more than a few were monstrosities beings with feet where hands should have been , with multiple arms or a plague of extra ears .
one figure wearing a military uniform was headless , and another , similarly clad , bore a too large head on a small , wiry body .
what others ?
west said .
theres no one else out there , only hocks .
come on , its getting late and we have a lot to do .
he drew the curtains and steered me away from the window .
so he could not see them .
their message , it seemed , was for me alone .
i thought it would be more than my life was worth to try to leave the house on boundary street before i had engaged with my appointed task .
all right , i said .
youd better tell me exactly what you want me to do .
as the night turned toward dawn , west showed me how to carry out his desperate plan .
timing is crucial , he said .
all the official business must be finished before you can revivify me , and that has to be done as soon as practicable after my death .
thats why ill administer the drug at precisely seven in the morning .
worthies such as the medical examiner do not begin to stir until after eight , so youll have enough time to go home , change your clothes and put on a performance of strolling out to call on your friend dr. west , to get his opinion on investment opportunities .
these details reminded me again of the absurdity of his scheme .
herbert , think about what could go wrong !
what if the medical examiner doesnt come until its too late ?
then youll telephone billington or one of the others ive told you about and get him to sign the death certificate .
dont forget , youll be distressed at the death of a friend .
youll have a good excuse to be irrational and persistent .
make the most of it .
now lets go down to the lab .
as we descended the stairs to the main floor , rain washed air wafted through an open window on the landing , cool and refreshing on my hot face .
it provoked in me an intense nostalgia for ordinary things rain and sun , sleeping and waking , work and conversation , friendship and love .
i almost said to him , herbert , thats enough of this nonsense .
lets go back upstairs and have another drink .
you can tell me what youre really going to do and then i can go home .
but then i remembered john hocks and the mob of phantoms , and reluctantly put away this nave idea .
in the laboratory , everything was ready .
the apparatus was set up and on a bench nearby stood a flask of the familiar violet coloured liquid .
west picked it up and held it to the light , making the iridescence sparkle and shift .
here , you might say , is the essence of herbert west , he said , smiling .
its possible to create a formula unique to an individual by adding substances extracted from the living organism .
obviously , this was impossible in cases where the subjects were dead before they ever came into my hands .
one day it may be possible to reconstruct an individual from such a substance alone .
a wonderful thought , isnt it ?
he reviewed the procedures .
they were still familiar to me , despite the years that had passed .
just as i was beginning to think i knew what i was doing , a thought struck me .
herbert !
the funeral wholl be buried , if not you ?
if youre alive again , i mean ?
he laughed .
i thought youd never ask .
ill introduce him to you now .
he unlocked the door of the annexe and motioned me inside .
on a table lay the body of a man , dressed formally in a navy blue suit , with a red necktie and polished shoes .
he looked like west , startlingly so blond hair , clear cut features , high cheekbones .
but these eyes were closed forever .
these lips would never smile .
who is he ?
i whispered .
his real name doesnt matter .
call him francis west , or francesco my troublesome twin brother .
hell stand in for me or lie in , rather if all goes well .
but where did he come from ?
really , charles , i should think by this time you could work it out for yourself .
he was a member of a gang , shot in some brawl .
it wasnt the bullet that killed him , but loss of blood .
i saw the body at one of hirams establishments some time ago .
he looked rather like me , and i thought it might be an interesting exercise to perfect the resemblance .
it might be handy to have a double , even a dead one .
he is , of course , embalmed .
it will be your task to haul him upstairs so hirams men can pick him up .
of course , if i stay dead it will be burial for me and the incinerator for this one .
or vice versa , i dont really care .
let me understand this , herbert .
this fellow was dead .
you brought him here and revivified him .
then you surgically altered his face to make him look like you .
exactly .
look , i had to give him new hair too .
his own , alas , was brown , and i thought a wig would be a rather cheap device .
it turned out rather well , didnt it ?
he looked immensely pleased with himself , a craftsman admiring his own good work .
so he was alive for some time ?
there were only the faintest of scars to be seen , and only when i looked closely .
a couple of weeks .
and dont worry yourself about his sufferings .
there were none .
when the time came i dispatched him very kindly .
just as i will dispatch myself .
west removed his spectacles and placed them on the face of his double , making the resemblance between them nearly perfect .
you see , hell do admirably , he said .
he picked up the glasses and handed them to me .
i dont need these any more , but they must be found near my body , or it will look suspicious .
he looked at his watch .
its time .
oh , before i forget i want you to have this .
he held out the emerald ring .
before i could say anything , he grasped my right hand and slid the thing onto my finger .
i think youd better wear it when you do the revivification , he said .
dont ask me why .
dont ask me anything now .
its too late .
he went to a cupboard and took out a small bottle containing a clear fluid , then to a drawer , from which he removed a hypodermic syringe .
then he left the room , moving quickly and purposefully .
panic rose in me as i followed him up the stairs .
i found it difficult to breathe .
herbert , wait !
surely you dont have to do this .
surely theres some other way .
he half turned toward me .
surely i do .
after all youve heard you must know that i can not do otherwise .
the bridegroom was ready the bride awaited him impatiently .
we went into his bedroom , full of morning light , filtered through the thin white curtains .
it was the beginning of a beautiful summer day and herbert west was preparing to kill himself .
he set the bottle and syringe on the chest of drawers and removed his jacket , hanging it carefully on the back of the chair .
he rolled up the left sleeve of his shirt .
then he picked up the syringe and drew it full of the drug from the bottle , carefully adjusting the amount .
this will do the job in about a minute , he said .
he put the deadly thing on the bedside table , next to the spectacles i had placed there already .
he came over to me and held out his hands .
charles , youve been a good friend to me , and for that i thank you , regardless of the outcome of this , our last adventure .
he smiled at me with such kindness that something broke within me , some jagged thing that had pressed on my heart since i had heard his terrible confession .
standing near him as i was i could see that he was afraid .
his left eyelid twitched and there was a faint dew of sweat on his upper lip , on which a light stubble of moustache was visible .
i pressed his hands .
herbert , please dont do this .
i have to .
abruptly , he pulled his hands from mine and lay down on the bed .
he picked up the syringe with his right hand and turned his left arm so that the inner part , where the veins showed blue through the fair skin , was toward him .
he placed the needle against the skin and pushed it into the vein .
his lips moved without sound , then set in a thin line as he clenched his jaw .
he pressed the plunger and shot the poison into his body .
for a little time , nothing happened .
then he said , faintly , charles , your hand i took his hand , and he gripped it hard .
his eyes were fixed on mine .
charles , if im impaired when i come back , if its too late and im a hopeless kill me .
promise me that !
i promise , i murmured , hardly thinking of the implications .
his eyes widened , the pupils enlarging , and grew unfocussed .
his hand became limp in mine .
i placed my palm over his heart and felt it beating , yet ever more faintly , then not at all .
he was dead .
despair washed over me in a black wave .
i felt myself falling and falling , was forced to my knees .
i laid my head on his chest and wept .
chapter 20 the son is become a warrior fire and surpasses the tincture , for he himself is the treasure and he himself is attired in the philosophic matter .
come hither , ye sons of wisdom , and rejoice , for the dominion of death is over , and the son reigns he wears the red garment , and the purple is put on .
tractatus aureus .
some unknown time later i raised my head .
my watch said seven thirty , a concept which was , for a while , meaningless .
i could not imagine why i had fallen asleep kneeling by my bed .
too much to drink again , charles , i said to myself .
no wonder i had nightmares .
finally , the thinking part of my brain began to function once more .
it was a beautiful july morning in arkham and herbert west was dead .
his eyes were still open , and their empty stare horrified me so much that i pressed my fingers on the eyelids to close them .
then he seemed only asleep , the long lashes lying on his cheeks .
he was so recently dead that the characteristic pallor , indicative of the pooling of the stilled blood , had not yet begun .
the horror i had felt at his revelations of the night before was gone , dissolved in the fact of his death .
now i felt only pity .
i pulled down his left shirt sleeve and fastened the silver cufflink .
it was time to do what i had promised .
but i hesitated , standing there next to his bed .
i thought with weary revulsion of the long chain of links that had to be forged for his salvation .
i could not do it .
i wanted only to stay with him .
i wanted to be dead myself .
it would be so easy .
the drug bottle stood on the chest of drawers .
the empty syringe lay on the counterpane where it had fallen from his fingers .
i had only to refill it , lie down beside him , and do as he had done .
what stopped me , strangely enough , was the thought of my father .
he had given in to his despair , without any thought for me or my mother .
i did not want to die a suicide , and the son of a suicide .
surely i could prove myself stronger , for the sake of my friend ?
and i had given him my word .
all right , herbert .
i brushed the fair hair from his forehead and touched his cheek .
then i left the room , taking the syringe and the drug bottle with me .
i descended to the cellar once more and closed the hidden door to the laboratory .
following wests instructions , i left the house by way of the rear door , which opened from the back hallway into the shrubbery behind the house .
but before i could find my way to the street , a figure glided from behind some bushes and confronted me .
i say confronted , but in truth he did no more than stand in front of me .
in the light of the new day , i saw him clearly .
he was nearly skeletal , the bones of his face covered only by dead white skin , except for his lips , which were the colour of liver .
what was left of his hair was white too , giving him the appearance of an albino .
but his eyes were not the white lashed , rabbit like sort commonly seen in such individuals .
they were dark and muddy , peering from deep sockets like wary animals .
perhaps i was beyond shock , or perhaps i had known all along that this encounter was necessary .
john hocks , i said , what do you want here ?
hocks .
his voice was deep but faint , as though it came from a hole in the ground .
they called me that once .
but not any more .
now they call me will .
he smiled , showing blackened teeth .
its a joke .
because i wont .
you wont what ?
do what they want .
and i wont die .
until he does .
he twitched his hand toward wests house .
the one who raped me .
what do you mean , raped ?
another twitch of those liver lips .
well , what would you call it ?
every day , every night , i feel it inside me , cant forget , ever .
what is it that you remember ?
i was in the water .
i sank down , down , fighting all the way and kept fighting down there in the darkness , gasping for air .
air !
air !
how i wanted it !
but all i got was water , cold and heavy inside me .
it went on and on .
in the box under the ground , i kept drowning .
then finally , peace until he made me live again , forced life into me like a shaft of heated iron .
it was a violation .
because i had given it up and it wasnt his to give back to me .
i ran and ran , tried to spew it up so i could fall into the sweet peace again .
but i couldnt do it .
he put something in me that wanted blood , it wanted life , any life .
i killed , i ate , ripped , drank .
but all i ever wanted was the dark , and sleep .
his words came more slowly and farther apart , as though he was a clock running down .
he thought you might have been able to return fully to life .
that was his intention .
it wasnt his to give back .
he stole my death , and im here to get it back from him .
he grinned again , showing the waste of his blackened teeth .
youre too late , then , john hocks .
herbert west is dead .
he lies dead in this house .
for the first time , he showed surprise .
dead ?
how do you know ?
i was with him when he died .
now im going to find people to help me bury him .
and john hocks , i tell you that before he died , he said to me that he was wrong to bring you back to life .
he was sorry .
aah .
he drew a long breath , and i heard a kind of sticky creaking , as though the fabric of his body shifted and strained .
all right , ill wait .
when i see them take his body away , ill know .
i might even leave you a present .
but if youre lying he lurched toward me , and it was as though all the ghosts of wests victims looked out from his eyes , avid for my blood .
i pushed past him and plunged blindly into the shrubbery .
once on the street , i ran .
after a couple of hundred yards , i slowed down and looked back .
he hadnt followed me , and i almost wondered whether my encounter with him had been a hallucination born of weariness and anxiety .
at home , the first thing i did was to pour away the drug remaining in the bottle , if only to stop myself from using it .
i smashed the bottle and the syringe , and wrapped the fragments and the needle in a handkerchief .
i washed myself and changed my clothes , hoping to dispel the effects of a sleepless night , too much wine and emotional strain .
i was afraid to lie down , lest i fall asleep and waste precious time .
at eight thirty i set out again , taking with me the handkerchief containing the glass fragments .
i strolled through the miskatonic campus toward river street , trying to look casual and unhurried , even though all i could think about was the ordeal before me , and the fact that every passing minute diminished my chances of success .
once i reached the riverside promenade , i deliberately slowed my steps and paused as though to admire the view .
the flowing water swirled against the wall beneath me and the fragments of glass sparkled briefly before they disappeared forever .
then i went to alfreds restaurant and tried to put on a convincing performance with eggs , toast and coffee .
but i had to force myself to swallow , and finally abandoned half the meal uneaten .
the closer i got to wests house , the more aware i became of the pain in my heart , of fear and apprehension at what lay before me .
i was afraid that in my absence hocks would have broken in and violated wests corpse in such a way that revivification would be impossible .
as i approached the house , three black crows peered down from the roof .
i had never seen crows there before .
it was as though they were inspecting me .
was i ready for the task ?
i had served only the briefest of apprenticeships before the summons came .
fear surged up again but i told myself that i was a necessary part of the events being played out here .
i went up the walk , up the steps and across the porch .
the crows flew away , croaking harshly .
there was no sign of hocks , but maybe he was still lurking in the shrubbery .
i rang the bell .
i rang and knocked many times , as west had told me to do .
finally , i looked in one or two windows and went around the corner of the house and looked in the garage .
then i made my way to the house next door .
its occupant , a lawyer , was an acquaintance of mine .
i explained that there appeared to be some trouble at dr. wests house and asked to use his telephone .
it was already quarter after nine .
west had been dead for more than two hours .
i told the police officer who answered that i had had no response at the home of dr. west and suspected that all was not well there .
i had arranged to meet him at nine oclock , i said .
a little persuasion was necessary to convince the policeman that action was needed .
might dr. west be at the hospital ?
i assured the man that this was not the case , but he should certainly check if he wished .
had i looked to see whether dr. wests car was in its garage ?
yes , i had done so , and yes , it was there .
these details seemed to satisfy him and he said he would dispatch a couple of officers .
it was a long ten minutes before they arrived and forced open the door .
i had left the second floor apartment unlocked , since west had told me this was his usual custom .
the policemen climbed up the stairs , but i lagged behind .
they had to be first on the scene .
i could hear their voices and footsteps above me .
when i detected an increase in the volume and urgency of their tones , i knew they had found him .
the elder of the two , officer hatch , came out of wests bedroom to meet me .
i have some bad news , mr. milburn , he said .
dr. west is dead .
even with my knowledge , his words fell like a blow .
i stumbled a little , and hatch grasped my arm .
may i see him ?
i asked .
all right , but dont touch anything .
we have to look over the premises .
i did not have to play at grief as i entered the room .
it took me hard when i saw my friend lying as i had left him .
hatch gave me a few moments , then asked , who was his next of kin , do you know ?
and did he have a doctor ?
we have to find someone to issue a death certificate .
time reversed itself to the previous night , when i had asked west this same question .
i saw his wide eyed look of mock surprise .
what would i want with one of those fellows ?
im never ill and even if i was , i could deal with it as well as any of them , or better .
what you must do , charles , is make sure they summon good old dr. tillotson .
he went on to tell me that there were two physicians in arkham who were called upon to examine dead persons not known to have any doctor attending them .
one was dr. stanley , an eager young fellow , very keen on the latest methods .
he wouldnt hesitate to recommend a post mortem in the case of an apparently healthy thirty six year old man who has died suddenly , west had said .
and that would surely be fatal to our enterprise .
now i happen to know that stanley is away right now .
he goes to maine for two weeks every summer .
fishing , i believe .
in his absence , dr. tillotson is called .
his methods arent nearly so rigorous .
and hes open to negotiation .
now i said , dr. wests next of kin are his two brothers in boston .
and i dont believe he had a doctor .
he was rarely ill. is that so ?
said hatch .
i suggest you go into the parlour and wait , mr. milburn .
we have to ask you some questions , but first ill telephone dr. stanley .
he went into the study .
an alarm bell went off in my head .
could it be that west had been mistaken about stanley and his fishing trip ?
or perhaps he had already returned ?
holding my breath , i hovered in the doorway to the study .
what would i do if it were stanley who was to come after all ?
surely he wouldnt remove the body immediately ?
i would have to be prepared to do the revivification in whatever interval of time was allowed me between the departure of the officials and the removal of the body .
but would they leave me alone with it ?
and what would they do when they realized there was no longer a body to remove ?
well , but there was one .
but it was already embalmed .
the progressive minded dr. stanley would surely realize this .
i grew dizzy , contemplating these possibilities .
after a few minutes i heard hatch say , i see , miss .
so he wont be back until next week ?
no , i need someone right now .
i guess ill try dr. tillotson .
relief made my legs weak as i went back to the sitting room , but panic returned when i checked my watch .
it was almost ten oclock .
west had told me that if i was not able to begin the revivification by noon , i may as well not bother .
unless youre curious to see what sort of curiosity ill be by then .
but thats your business entirely .
hatch came back , followed by foskett , his associate .
while they waited for tillotson , they questioned me about my relationship to the deceased and my doings of the past two days .
i told them that i had dined with dr. west the previous evening .
afterward we had talked until quite late .
i made a point of mentioning that west had complained of a headache several times in the course of the evening .
he and i had arranged to meet again at nine the next day to discuss some investments about which i wanted his advice .
i showed them the papers which i had fortunately remembered to bring with me prospectuses of mining ventures in colorado .
on receiving no response to my ringing of the doorbell , i had summoned them .
the rest they knew .
after this they asked me the same questions all over again , only in a different order , using different words .
i knew this was intended to disconcert me and cause me to vary my answers if i was lying .
did dr. west have much to drink last night ?
asked foskett suddenly .
no , i assured him , which was the truth , he had had only a little wine with the meal .
they left me and went to investigate the dining room and the remains of the supper .
some unknown time later , the doorbell rang and foskett went to answer it , returning with tillotson in tow .
the latter was a short , beefy man , red faced from the climb up the stairs .
he carried a medical bag in one hand and a fat cigar in the other .
he greeted hatch with a grunt , and indicated me with his cigar holding hand .
whos this ?
im a friend of dr. wests , i said , going over to him and holding out my hand .
charles milburn .
im looking after things here until dr. wests brothers in boston have been notified .
tillotson transferred the cigar from hand to mouth so he could shake my hand , then took it out again so he could talk .
is that so ?
that seems irregular to me .
he has no family here , eh ?
is there a mrs. west ?
he looked around as though he expected such a person to materialize from the air .
dr. west was a bachelor , i said .
hmm .
well , it takes all kinds , i guess .
he vanished into the bedroom .
i followed , not caring if he thought that was irregular too .
after his initial reaction , tillotson did not object to my company .
in fact , he seemed pleased to have an audience for his comments and heavy handed witticisms .
he asked me the same questions i had answered twice already for hatch and foskett .
i was careful to mention wests fictitious headache and otherwise to say exactly what i had told the policemen .
it pained me a little to see the fumble fingered way he dealt with wests clothing , including the fact that he had neglected to put down his cigar and scattered ashes over the body .
gee , look at these clothes , he muttered .
was this guy a pansy or something ?
is this what he was wearing last night ?
i hoped he did not expect an answer to the first question since i wasnt about to give him one , but in response to the second i said that yes , dr. west was dressed as he had been the previous evening , except that he had removed his jacket .
i noticed that tillotson was careful to unfasten wests cufflinks and push his sleeves up in order to look at his arms .
when he picked up the left arm , i grew tense .
was he a dope fiend , do you know ?
dr. west was extremely moderate in his habits , i replied .
he certainly did not have a drug habit , if thats what youre suggesting .
so how do you explain this ?
he pointed to the mark on wests arm made by the needle .
i dont explain it , but i know he wasnt a dope fiend , as you put it .
well , maybe not , but it looks like he had a reason to prescribe something for himself .
he looked at me closely with bright blue eyes that seemed rather too intelligent .
dr. west was having some kind of trouble , wasnt he ?
a lawsuit , i think i heard .
yes , there was something like that , i admitted .
but surely youre not suggesting oh , im not suggesting anything , tillotson said .
but its kind of funny for such a young man to drop dead suddenly like this .
indeed , and i assume you have been called in to determine a probable cause of death , not to make irresponsible allegations .
no need to get testy , now , mr. milburn .
all right , heres how it looks to me .
an aneurysm , probably cerebral .
he comes in here last night , pretty late from what you say .
hes feeling not so good , takes off his glasses , hangs up his jacket over here and lies down until he feels better .
only he never does .
he hasnt been dead very long , maybe five or six hours .
less than four hours , you old fool , i thought .
but not much less .
but the thing is , tillotson continued , its pretty hard to tell for sure with these things .
an autopsy would be needed for a definitive answer .
which would also settle the question of suicide .
dr. tillotson , i said , as far as i am concerned , the question of suicide exists only in so far as you yourself have raised it .
do you see any evidence here to indicate suicide ?
perhaps you should speak to the police officers about it , since they were first to arrive on the scene .
he looked annoyed .
well , of course ill have to see what hatch and foskett turned up .
but what im getting at is , since youre representing the family , what there is of them , do you feel theres any percentage in further investigation ?
i , and dr. wests brothers too , im sure , are concerned only that this sad event be handled properly and promptly .
if officers hatch and foskett have found no evidence that dr. wests death was anything but natural , and you yourself support this view , i do not think any further investigation is needed , no .
in that case , im sure we can come to a mutually satisfactory arrangement , said tillotson , grinning .
with a mixture of relief and disgust , i realized he was finally getting to the point .
indeed , dr. tillotson .
perhaps i could offer you fifty dollars for your expenses .
i held out the money , hearing wests voice in my mind .
fifty ought to be about right .
more than that would only make him curious .
im much obliged , mr. milburn .
now , if we could go into dr. wests study , ill make out the death certificate .
apparent brain aneurysm , ill put for cause of death .
will that do ?
if thats your professional judgment , certainly , i replied , unable to keep a chill out of my voice .
tillotson chuckled as we left the bedroom .
professional judgment .
oh , thats a good one , he said .
finally , they were gone and herbert west was officially dead .
i looked at my watch and was startled to see that it was eleven oclock .
west had been dead for four hours .
i went back to the bedroom .
tillotson had left his clothing disordered .
clumsily , i rearranged the rumpled shirt , buttoned up his vest and straightened his arms so that his hands lay at his sides .
his hands , which had done unimaginable deeds , both wonderful and vile , but would do no more unless i found in myself the resolve to carry out the rest of the work .
get on with it , charles , i whispered , but in truth i felt like weeping .
the first thing i did was telephone hiram west at his office in boston .
i did not know him well , having met him only once or twice when he was in arkham .
he was a silent man , very different from his bombastic father , but with an alertness that suggested the silence was by no means empty .
mr. west , this is charles milburn , from arkham .
im afraid i have some bad news for you , concerning your brother herbert .
oh yes ?
he died last night .
it appears to have been a brain aneurysm .
were you there ?
did you witness his death ?
no .
no , i didnt .
i dined with him last night , but when i returned this morning , he was dead .
why did you go back ?
his manner reminded me of my questioning by the police , but i explained about my fictitious prearranged meeting with west .
i would like to express my condolences , i added , and to offer my assistance in making some of the arrangements here , if you wish .
that would be helpful , mr. milburn .
i will telephone our arkham establishment immediately , to advise them of the situation .
where is the body now ?
we agreed that he would notify jeremy , the third brother , and arrange for obituary notices in the boston newspapers .
i would do the same in arkham .
the funeral was to be three days hence .
i could expect the undertakers men to come and collect the body that afternoon .
this business concluded , i turned my attention to the main purpose of this insane enterprise .
i had decided that i would begin by carrying wests body down to the laboratory and that of his double to the bedroom .
that way , no matter when the undertakers men arrived , the correct corpse would be available .
if i was unable to revivify west , or in the event i decided not to do , i would cremate him in his own incinerator .
as i was going down the stairs to the ground floor , i was startled to hear a key being inserted into the front door .
it opened to reveal mrs. fisk , wests housekeeper .
oh , good morning , mr. milburn , she said .
i didnt expect to see you .
i had an idea that dr. west would be having a late morning today , so i thought i would come a little later than usual .
she was a middle aged woman , tall and strongly built , with abundant hair that may have at one time been some shade of blonde , but was now a curious mixture of silver and bronze .
her only other noteworthy feature was a pair of blue green eyes , as remarkable in their way as wests grey ones .
im afraid i have some bad news , mrs. fisk , i began , and told my tale once more .
she was silent for some time after i finished speaking .
im very sorry to hear this , mr. milburn .
he was so young .
would you like me to lay out the body ?
i know what to do .
i suppose wests funeral home will be handling the funeral , but its not decent to leave the poor man lying there , is it ?
i had not anticipated this suggestion and felt panicked .
this would mean more delays .
already i had barely an hour in which to begin the revivification .
then remembered how awkward i had always found the business of undressing the corpses west and i had worked on .
i had already been dreading that part of the operation , especially in view of my emotional entanglements with him .
mrs. fisk , with her steadiness and experience , was a godsend .
yes , that would be extremely helpful .
dr. west had no family close by .
forget his brothers , i thought , remembering wests suggestion that they were planning to kill him .
this woman , andre and i we were his family .
wests bedroom was filled with cool , bright light from the north facing window , tinged a faint green from the leaves of a large chestnut tree outside .
he still looked only asleep .
i brought in a basin of water and mrs. fisk followed with towels and washcloths .
unlike tillotsons coarse joviality , which had grated on my nerves , her comments , delivered in a calm , low voice , provided a welcome distraction from the inner turmoil which threatened to overwhelm me as we removed wests clothing .
he always wore such beautiful clothes , mrs. fisk said .
look at this vest , now .
pure silk , that is .
and the best linen for his shirts .
thats right , just hold him up like that while i take it off .
i had been correct in thinking that dealing with the body would be easier with her assistance .
she sponged poor west down while i held his limbs steady , or turned him this way and that .
how was he to work for , mrs. fisk ?
i asked .
having heard so much of horror from west himself the previous night , i was curious as to how she saw him .
he was wonderful .
well , for one thing he was a very tidy man , so that made it much easier for me .
and he was always polite .
he wasnt always friendly , but that was all right .
i dont expect to be friends with the people i work for , but i want them to treat me like a human being .
he was sort of lonely , wasnt he ?
id be preparing one of those dinners he gave for his friends , and hed come into the kitchen to see how things were going .
then hed offer to stir something or cut something up .
i feel at home in kitchens , hed say , and he was a good cook too .
and more often than not , hed get me arguing about something .
he liked to argue , you know , for fun .
at first i thought he was trying to make me mad so id quit , for some reason .
but that wasnt it .
he just wanted me to take the opposite side and start firing back at him .
god was one of his favourite subjects .
he had a whole list of reasons why god doesnt exist , and id come back with my reasons why he does .
or whether its all right to own slaves , or to execute criminals .
hed argue both sides of those , different days .
it sure made some jobs go faster .
peeling potatoes , or apples , or shelling peas , for instance .
lets chop some logic along with these vegetables , hed say .
ill miss that .
her words conjured up a vivid image of the two of them in the kitchen , a pan of potatoes between them , west gesturing eloquently with a paring knife while he argued god out of existence .
despite my sorrow , i smiled .
yes , he loved a good argument , i said .
i had a few with him myself .
and he wasnt cheap , mrs. fisk continued , either with his time or his money .
hed be out day and night , as long as there were sick people that needed doctoring .
he worked too hard , i thought .
i wouldnt be surprised if thats what killed him .
and he didnt sleep well .
thats always a sign of trouble .
how do you know that , mrs. fisk ?
i cant count the times id come in on a morning and find his bed hadnt been slept in .
now maybe he made it up himself , but i dont think so .
when he was a regular doctor , before the war , i figured it was because hed been called out all night .
but later , after he began doing his special work , that couldnt have been it , could it ?
maybe he had emergencies at the hospital , i said .
and thought , maybe he was busy in the cellar .
i dont think he was a really happy man , mr. milburn .
sometimes i thought he was missing something .
oh , i know people said he should have gotten married , but thats not what i mean .
he was missing something inside and didnt know where to look for it .
thats an interesting thought , mrs. fisk .
and he didnt eat right .
i dont think he ever had three meals a day .
id leave him something for dinner every day before i went home but most times i think andre had more of it than dr. west .
look , you can see how skinny he was getting .
it was true .
he was lightly built but had always looked fit and well muscled .
now his ribs stood out too starkly , and the cords of muscle on his arms and legs .
he was a good man , said mrs. fisk .
ive heard people say he thought he was too good for arkham , and that he was cold hearted .
but if that was so , i wouldnt have expected him to bother with my john .
what do you mean ?
my son john .
he works at bolton worsted .
a couple of years ago he caught his hand in one of the machines .
i thought hed lose it for sure .
dr. billington said it would have to come off because there was too much damage and it would get infected and cause blood poisoning .
but i said wait until i ask dr. west .
so dr. billington called him and said we would get john out to arkham to see him .
but dr. west , he said no need for that , ill come over in my car right now .
and he brought john back here and fixed his hand .
how ?
i dont know how .
but john was back at work in a month and you can barely see the scars .
and when i asked dr. west how much i owed him , he said , nothing at all .
how about that ?
by now we were finished .
wests body lay on the bed , straight and clean , covered with a sheet .
now what do you think hed want to be buried in ?
asked mrs. fisk .
he had so many suits of clothes its a wonder he could keep track of them .
ill pick something out before the undertakers come , i said .
wests double was already wearing a suit .
definitely a second best one for him , west had said , laughing .
mrs. fisk finally left , after i had told her the anticipated time of the funeral and asked if she would help with the preparations for the reception which would follow the service .
finally i was alone , and now there was every reason for haste .
west had been dead for nearly five hours .
and yet i hesitated still , thinking once more of the things he had done .
two murders , certainly .
even if clapham lee had been insincere and an opportunist , even though he was alive now , after a fashion , west had killed him .
and to bring him back to life deliberately in a diminished state , without any of the sustaining ties to others , without the power of reason , surely this was cruelty elevated to a rococo pitch .
but he had given andre boudreaus life back to him too , and andre seemed to be a happy man , and devoted to west .
then there were the mindless creatures .
eleven of them , if i could believe what west had told me , including one who had ended as a public spectacle before expiring , and others who must have endured periods of half existence in the cellar .
and what about the composites he had mentioned ?
i had not been able to make myself ask him for details about them , but i had seen some of them in the vision from the window .
one who could contrive such abnormalities was himself an abnormality .
he will fumble in ignorance with the ultimate things , quarrington had said in his final assessment of west .
he might become a creature of evil , but would be transformed with the help of his friend .
i was that friend , the only one who could attempt that transformation , if i chose to do so .
and whatever west had done , his servants loved him .
mrs. fisk , that good , sensible woman , had said unequivocally , he was a good man .
but would she have so described him had she known what i knew ?
or if west had not paid her as generously as he had ?
she had seen him heal her son without expectation of payment .
but did that deed negate the others ?
what balance could i use to weigh his heart ?
thoroughly confused and troubled , i went once more into the bedroom and looked at his face .
the remoteness of death had begun to take over his features .
soon , i thought , he will be as marble .
its now or never .
where is he now ?
i saw him inject the drug .
i watched the mechanism that was his living body slow and stop working .
here lie his flesh and bones , but the thing that made him herbert west , the doctor , the necromancer , my friend , where is that ?
what is that ?
despite my urgency , this conundrum did not yield .
it resisted me , as it had resisted better men , philosophers , mystics and poets , throughout the ages .
behold , i show you a mystery .
there was no point in hammering against that door .
either i had faith or i did not .
it cant be just mechanism , herbert !
i spoke aloud in the silent room .
if you were standing here youd know it too , god damn it !
i was angry at west for putting me in this predicament , at the world for its imperfections , its cruelty , the flaw at the heart of things that manifested itself in the corruption of tillotson , the falseness of clapham lee , the perfidy of wests brothers , in west himself and his transgressions finally , in the corpse of this young man , dead before his time and by his own hand .
ill do it !
i decided .
if west was less than perfect , so also was the world he had inhabited .
if i could , i would restore him to it as i had promised .
the world deserved to have west in it .
he must be transformed and unified , quarrington had said .
well , i knew of only one way to achieve that .
once he was alive again , his fate would be out of my hands .
perhaps he would only die again .
or maybe he would be free to find that missing piece of himself , to seek his own completion and face the consequences of his choices , including john hocks .
i was only an instrument , not the maker .
i laid my hand on his chest .
ill bring you back , herbert , if i can .
i swear it .
first we had to descend into the cellar , the abyss from which he would be reborn or in which he would be utterly destroyed .
i ran downstairs , unlocked and opened the secret door , fumbled in the blackness for the electrical switch .
then i climbed back up the many steps , no longer hurrying , telling myself to conserve my strength .
i wrapped the sheet around wests body and picked him up .
strangely , the corpse had not yet begun to stiffen .
as i shifted it to get a better grip , his head lolled against my shoulder and i smelled the perfume of narcissus from his hair , and from the sheet he was wrapped in , the scent of lavender .
west was not a large man , but despite his recent loss of weight he was a heavy burden for a fellow with a game leg who was not particularly athletic .
by the time i had negotiated the stairs to the ground floor , i was breathing hard , and as i reached the cellar i was afraid that i would drop him .
at last we were in the laboratory .
i set him down on the table with relief and rested before i went into the annexe .
im going to fetch your fetch , herbert , i said , with a laugh that surprised me .
the gangster was about the same size as west , but seemed heavier .
of course , now i was climbing up , dragging the dead weight against the pull of gravity .
i was also squeamishly aware that this fellow had been dead not for several hours , but for several months .
despite wests assurance that he had done a first class job of embalming , guaranteed leak proof , i felt my nerves recoil as the corpse settled against me .
it was as though it radiated deadness , that its state was contagious .
there were no lingering perfumes here , only a cold stench of the preservatives with which he had been filled .
i had to rest twice on the way up , propping the corpse on the banister to reduce the weight on my arms .
finally , i deposited it carefully on wests bed .
mindful of mrs. fisks admonitions about decency , i arranged the limbs and straightened the clothing .
wests second best suit was far better than most peoples best ones , and the fellow looked quite splendid when i had finished .
wests gold rimmed spectacles gleamed on the dead face , the lenses reflecting blandly the cool light from the windows .
from a little distance he looked almost uncannily like herbert west .
satisfied , i returned to the laboratory .
the apparatus was assembled and ready .
the flask of violet coloured fluid the essence of herbert west ?
stood nearby .
here we are again , herbert , i said , in the laboratory , about to begin the work .
i unwrapped his body and laid it straight on the table , arms at his sides .
now it was unmistakably a corpse , like so many others i had seen in this place .
his skin was cool .
not cold yet , but strangely cool , like kid leather over the bones .
his flesh had already begun to shrink and settle , loosening from the bones , revealing the hollow of the abdominal cavity and the narrow valleys between the ribs .
his head rolled a little to one side and as i tried to straighten it , i saw that one of his eyes had slipped slightly open , showing a sliver of gummed white and giving his face an idiotic , leering expression .
even his hair felt dead .
repelled , i pulled my hands away .
this was no longer my friend .
this was only the dross left behind after the vital spirit had departed .
its future was not life but corruption .
i remembered a disgusting story by the mad edgar poe , for whose writings west had an inexplicable fondness .
he had insisted on reading this tale to me once , complete with theatrical effects .
it was titled , if i recall , the facts in the case of m. valdemar .
a man at the point of death was hypnotized although poe said mesmerized , using the term current in his day and so remained sentient even after death had occurred .
after several months , during which he was in a state of sleep waking or trance , the hypnotist for some reason awakened him , at which point , exclaiming repeatedly that he was dead , the unfortunate man dissolved , all in a minute and here i quote , the phrase having stuck in my mind , into a nearly liquid mass of loathsome of detestable putrescence .
surely that was the only fate possible for the thing that lay before me .
i wanted to run from the lab and the house , to leave arkham and never come back .
but i could not .
if i abandoned him now , he would haunt me forever .
i could not escape this obligation .
with something like a sob , i unstoppered the flask and poured the fluid into the reservoir of the apparatus .
the few times i had performed the delicate operation of inserting the cannulas into the correct blood vessels , west had been at my side to help and instruct me .
now he was the subject , i the experimenter , and an error on my part would mean permanent death for him .
i checked the apparatus , making sure that all the connections were properly made and secured , the instruments assembled and ready to hand .
minutes were slipping by , and each one was precious .
each ones passage might mean an irreparable loss to him or increase the chances of the arrival of outsiders .
but i could not bring myself to begin .
this was a process which , once started , had to continue , to success or failure .
surely it would be a failure , i thought , wearily .
how could this collection of glass and rubber , steel and chemicals , bring a dead man back to life , no matter what i did with it ?
yes , i had witnessed such transformations in this very place , but never one that had been entirely successful .
never mind that andre boudreau was supposedly an example of success i could not be certain that the fellow wasnt deluded , and i knew that west lied without hesitation when it suited him .
what good would it do , i asked myself , to mutilate his corpse , to make it vibrate and flail its limbs and utter garbled sounds ?
did i want to see his face now so still , like a locked casket of wonders twist into grotesqueness , his eyes grow muddled with agony as he tottered on the brink of the abyss ?
the alchemists had spoken of exactly this moment the beginning of the great work , a perilous enterprise which could not be hurried but which , once begun , had to be pursued to its end .
the instrument had to be worthy of the power that wielded it .
i did not think i was worthy .
i had been pressed into service , shaped quickly and roughly , and here i was , my materials ready around me , but my hands trembling , my will vacillating and weak .
did the alchemist ever succumb to despair , i wondered , as his candles dimmed in the cold dawn light ?
did he look appalled at his crucibles and alembics , the powders he had ground with his gritty pestle , the liquids he had distilled in his stained flasks ?
when all was said and done , those things were dead matter .
he could move them here and there , heat them , mix them with this or that , but without the intervention of a mystery , in the end the stuff would be as dead as before , no matter how much he had made it fizz and bubble in the fever pitch of excitement , with the bellows labouring and the furnace glowing like the fires of hell .
he did not possess the elusive element , only believed that it existed in the world , to be pursued , courted , hunted .
he had to give his whole life to that effort .
his hopes , fears , sweat , frenzy , tears and despair were necessary ingredients in the search .
they had to be incorporated into the work , or it would come to nothing .
unless i was prepared to take the dark road equipped only with my tiny flickering flame of love and faith unless i was prepared myself to perish in the effort , i had no business here .
having relished this unhappy irony to its fullest , i began to pray .
it was a formless prayer , without an object , without style , almost without words , merely a sincere and anguished intention that my fingers and eyes and tired brain be equal to the appointed task .
i bowed my head over the table as i murmured , as if to ask my dead friend for the help he could no longer give , and noticed that in my haste i had spilled some of the revivifying fluid .
a small pool of it lay on the surface of the table , near wests left hand .
without thinking , i dipped my fingers in it and brought them to my mouth .
the stuff tasted of salt , of metals , of blood .
i felt it too , as a warmth and vibration on my tongue .
a wind of energy swept through me , blowing away the weariness of the sleepless night and the long , anxious day .
the air in the room rippled and glowed .
the emerald on my finger burned with a radiant fire .
in my mind i found a knowledge of the veins and arteries , their complexities and those of the tissues and structures in which they were embedded .
suddenly i laughed out loud .
i was the chosen instrument , and here before me was my material .
for the first time i could look at his naked body without constraint , as though it were my own .
now he looked like an image of himself , his skin glowing faintly golden under the incandescent lights .
i had been brought to this place to do these things for him .
at this moment , i was nearer to him than a brother , a lover , a friend , as near as his mother when she began the labour of giving birth to him .
i laid my hands on his chest and ran them down the length of his torso .
i could feel the link , alive between us .
here i am , i said aloud , neither knowing nor caring to whom i spoke .
use me .
i kissed him to seal my promise , and began .
i tilted his head back to expose the throat .
then i picked up a scalpel .
i felt as though someone elses hands guided mine as i made the incision , unthinkingly applying the force needed to part the tissues .
there was the jugular vein , a dull blue cable embedded in the flesh .
i picked up the cannula and inserted it , feeling the slight resistance and give as it slid inside .
once it was secured , i located the femoral artery , made the incision unhesitatingly and slid in the arterial cannula .
all was now ready .
nothing could be gained by waiting , and much might be lost .
i opened the main valve and activated the pump .
into his body i introduced his own essence , watching the pressure meters , watching the hitherto empty flask fill with his red blood .
it did not take long before the fluid reservoir was nearly empty .
i closed the valves , withdrew the invading instruments and sewed up the two small incisions as he had shown me , wincing every time i pushed the needle through the skin .
but he showed no sign of feeling it .
he was still dead .
now his immediate fate was out of my hands .
i felt dizzy with relief , but could not disengage myself .
i remained with him , talking to him , telling him that i was here , i had done what he had wanted me to do , i was waiting for him to come back .
i called him by his name , i called him brother and beloved friend .
i was caught between hope and sorrow , but it was too early to mourn or to rejoice .
so why not hope ?
he had been dead less than six hours and the means of his death had been such that the bodys mechanisms were intact .
but another part of me watched with sorrow , thinking this is like a dream in which i found my hearts desire , but when i awoke , it was gone .
remembering my final promise to him , i took the pistol from its drawer and laid it nearby , hoping i would not need to use it indeed , i did not think i would be able to .
then a strange thing happened .
i had a sensation of wearing clothes that did not fit me , but it was more fundamental than that .
my body did not fit me .
my vision , too was disturbed , as though my familiar spectacles had been turned into powerful magnifying lenses .
then something fell into place , and i was myself ?
the air in the room rippled again , and i was looking down at my own face .
it was myself lying dead i was looking at .
no , i was herbert west , bending over the body of his dead friend , charles milburn .
we were together then , as we had never been before .
as i laid my hands on his body i could feel his hands on mine .
as i watched his face , i could see my own , lying still in death beneath me .
in the time out of time as i waited for life to return to him , a door opened in the fabric of the world and my essence merged with his .
i thought his thoughts and my own in the same moment .
there was only one thing to do , there was only one person , only one in the whole world , who could do it .
and he lay dead in this place i had created for my work .
this was my metier , the body on the table was the instrument i played , and the work was approaching its resolution and finale .
who am i ?
lately it feels like i have a raging mob in my mind .
i am plagued by that other , who calls himself my friend , but keeps reminding me of things i do not want to know .
i already know everything i need to i use the things of the world as my mind tells me to use them , to further knowledge .
what can i do besides this ?
why must i keep thinking about what he would say ?
he is not a scientist .
he lives by his nerve impulses and jumbled emotions .
but , herbert , do they suffer while you do that to them ?
how can you do that ?
well , i can and i do .
they do not suffer or if they do , i know how to deal with it a snip here , a nick there and their sufferings end .
so why do these useless thoughts gather around me like the furies gathered around oedipus ?
if i cant sleep , soon i wont be able to work , and i cant sleep without nightmares .
or drugs , which i know will be the ruin of me in the end .
which way do i go now ?
tell me that , my opinionated friend .
my colleagues and my own brothers conspire against me .
those things i made in france haunt my sleep and hocks waits outside my window .
and clapham lee oh but what a piece of work he was when i finished with him !
how beautifully vacant was his gaze !
but the way he tried to cling to me when i was turning him loose i had to hit him to make him let go .
he was like a frightened little child on the first day of school no !
why must i remember this stuff ?
its all his influence .
charles milburn , that overdeveloped conscience on legs .
i should have finished him off long ago , in 1914 damn it , why do these thoughts insist on crowding in , unproductive meanderings that waste my time and energy ?
what will i do , now that he is dead ?
all right , but with luck maybe he wont be dead for long .
and if he is , i will just have to find another assistant , or go on alone .
there is no one like him .
now what does that mean ?
he wasnt all that clever , really .
he kept muddling up his thoughts with emotions and getting sidetracked .
i shouldnt have listened to q. i should have found someone with a knowledge of scientific principles and methods .
but theres no one like him .
no one who knows me as he does .
without him i have no mirror .
yes , and i can run free in the world without his tiresome scruples to weigh me down .
run then , until you have run your course .
without him you are a mirror reflecting blackness , a self consuming fire , a dead stone .
dont you know who he is ?
when all roads lead you to the abyss , herbert west , he is your bridge , your only hope .
i told you this in 1911 , and now im telling you again .
damn you too , quarrington , and your metaphors and crazy notions !
wait , somethings happening here .
yes , hes alive !
i came to myself with a quivering jolt .
the air around me sparkled with iridescence .
it was july of 1923 and the body of herbert west lay on the table before me .
i was charles milburn again , and something was happening .
a miracle was happening .
forty seven minutes exactly had elapsed since i had mingled the revivifying fluid with his blood .
now i thought i felt a slight flutter under my fingers when i held them to his wrist .
no , there was nothing .
seconds later , another flutter , then a third .
with shaking hands , i groped for wests stethoscope , clamped it to my ears and applied the business end to his chest .
yes !
there were heartbeats , faint and far apart , but unmistakable .
exultation swept through me .
i felt my own heartbeats pounding in my ears .
resolutely , i ignored them and concentrated on the matter at hand .
i must not fail now , through carelessness induced by excitement .
once there is a pulse , west had instructed , it is crucial that the subject begins to breathe .
if respiration does not begin spontaneously , it must be induced .
i watched for signs .
there was no movement of his chest and the mirror i held to his lips remained unclouded .
there was only one thing to do .
i placed my left hand on his forehead and my right under his jaw .
i held his nostrils closed and opened his mouth .
i placed my mouth hard on his and breathed steadily once , waited a second or two , and breathed once more .
nothing .
i repeated this several more times .
in between breaths , i felt for his pulse .
it was still there , faint but discernable .
finally , as i inhaled in preparation for another breath , i saw his chest begin to rise and fall .
he had a pulse .
he was breathing .
he was alive .
i felt a wildness growing inside me .
i wanted to shout and caper .
i wanted to run up into the street and yell , hes alive !
he was dead and now hes alive and i dont care what any of you might think !
but of course i did none of these things .
i was charles milburn again , and a dreadful anxiety warred with my elation .
i had , for the moment , done everything i could .
now i could only watch , hoping that my efforts would not be proved vain by a relapse into death , or worse , a state of subnormal life from which i would have to free him .
quarringtons prediction that he would die two deaths would be as good then as if he lived another thirty years .
for an unguessable time i hovered over him .
already the signs of death were receding .
once more he looked only asleep .
despite the struggles of conscience i had experienced , despite my ambivalence about what i was doing , some innocent part of me was full of an unreserved joy as i watched .
for the first time , i indulged freely in hope .
i grew dizzy , as though i was being drawn out of myself , becoming lighter than air .
a fragrance filled the subterranean room , of the dewy earth on a summer morning , of rain on parched earth .
the light glowed intensely golden , as though the sun itself had descended into this underworld .
the body before me , herbert wests body , was transfigured , made more beautiful than he had ever been in life .
his skin grew lightly flushed , as though his blood ran with exultant vitality .
his hair was pure gold .
its the red dawn !
i cried .
he is made anew he was washed clean by his death , whiter than snow , and now he lives again , filled with the elixir vitae .
here is the quintessence , the magistery !
i was with him , as though we shared the same blood and breath .
i had given him my life in a great wave of love and hope .
its enough , i babbled , as the room spun around me .
ive done everything now and its enough , thank god , its enough .
herbert , say something !
speak to me , please speak to me !
show me that youre alive !
i bent over him , grasped his shoulders and gazed once more into his living face .
his eyes moved under the closed lids .
he lifted his left hand as though to brush aside some obstacle .
then he opened his eyes , those ice grey eyes i had thought i would never see again after the final slide into the unfocussed stare of death .
but i did not know what he saw .
i did not think it was me .
his lips moved , silently articulating words that i could have sworn were , only now then he spoke aloud , to whom i did not know , except that it was not to me .
he stared past me in a way that would have troubled me had i not already been troubled , and said , fire and darkness , the sword , the putrescence then the twisted road the place of life in death .
oh no , i will not speak of it .
not to anyone .
he closed his eyes and appeared to fall asleep .
chapter 21 never look outside for what you need , until you have made use of the whole of yourself .
gerard dorn there was a sudden clang of the doorbell .
i cursed silently the mischance of an interruption at this crucial moment .
it was probably the men from the mortuary .
well , there was a body upstairs for them .
i had to stay here .
then i heard footsteps in the hall above .
how could that be , when i had locked the door after mrs. fisk ?
it sounded as though someone was approaching the door to the cellar stairs .
hocks , it must be hocks !
i have to keep him out of here !
i glanced at west .
he was breathing normally , to all appearances only asleep .
i left the room , carefully closing the door and the hinged section of shelves that concealed it .
then i ran up the stairs .
in the hall i nearly collided with andre .
mr. milburn !
he said .
what are you doing here ?
where is the doctor ?
he looked more disturbed than i had ever seen him .
andre , i have some bad news for you , im afraid .
dr. west died early this morning .
he is dead ?
he set his bag down on the floor .
his face grew still and closed .
how did it happen ?
it was something called a brain aneurysm .
a blood vessel bursts in the brain .
it can happen unexpectedly and is nearly always fatal .
may i see him ?
he asked .
yes , of course , i said .
he is in his bedroom .
i followed him up the stairs even though i was on fire with impatience to get back to the laboratory .
here was another complication !
that andre knew about the laboratory in the cellar i was aware , but i did not know whether i could trust him with the secret of wests revivification .
why was he back so soon , anyway ?
i was certain west had said he would be away until the late afternoon .
i watched him as he approached the bedside .
his face was impassive as he looked at the corpse of wests double , lying serenely on the bed .
to my surprise , he stayed only a few moments before rejoining me .
im ready now , was all he said .
ready for what ?
i wondered .
are you all right , andre ?
i asked .
i am all right .
there will be a funeral , yes ?
let me put these things away .
then i will begin the preparations .
he started down the hall towards his quarters .
i didnt know whether to admire his stoicism or to regard it as some strange after effect of his own death and revivification .
just then , the door bell rang again and andre came back to admit two men who said they were from wests funeral home .
they were youngish fellows , dressed in black suits that seemed at odds with their cheerful everyday faces .
i had never seen either of them before , but evidently they had been advised of my existence , for one of them addressed me by name .
mr. milburn ?
were here to pick up dr. wests body now , if thats convenient .
yes , i was expecting you .
i hoped my appearance was not too wildly dishevelled .
i conducted them to wests bedroom .
the body is ready for burial , i said .
his housekeeper , mrs. fisk , and i have done all that was necessary .
dr. west told me several times that in the event of his death he did not wish to be embalmed .
so all that is needed is to select a suitable casket .
i imagine his brothers would prefer to do that .
but weve been given instructions to embalm the body , said one of the fellows .
by mr. hiram west himself , said the other .
i will speak to mr. west , i replied , wishing i felt as calm as i sounded .
i was a close friend of dr. wests , and i am confident that i understood his wishes in this matter .
they did not object further .
after all , it was nothing to them , as long as there were no negative consequences from their employer .
west had been quite clear on this point .
the fellows from the mortuary wont care .
the less they need to do , the better .
its hiram youll have to deal with but i think youll be able to convince him quite easily .
hes used to my contrary notions .
and if he and jeremy have been planning my exit , theyll have other things to think about .
the undertakers men went back to their vehicle and returned carrying a stretcher .
with practiced ease , they transferred the body of wests double onto it .
i held my breath lest something make them realize that it was already embalmed .
that would be a matter for gossip and speculation , all right !
i could see the headlines arkham doc embalms self before death , or more likely , body was already embalmed , docs friend arrested .
but they made no comment , and i saw nothing unusual in their expressions as they carried the corpse down the stairs and to the waiting hearse .
finally , i was able to return to the laboratory .
andre was nowhere in sight .
i assumed he had gone to begin his preparations , whatever they were .
i opened the doors with hands that shook once more with fear and hope .
would he speak to me ?
with horror , i remembered my promise to kill him if he was intellectually or physically impaired .
almost i hoped that he was dead , rather than that i should have to make this terrible decision .
the table was empty .
there was no body on it , dead or alive .
there was no sheet .
the apparatus and the two flasks , one empty , the other full of blood , were the only things to show that the revivification of herbert west had not been a hallucination on my part .
for a long minute i could only stand and stare .
it took my mind that long to absorb the fact of his absence .
then , frantically , i began searching .
what if he was delirious , or demented ?
visions of a shambling form on the aylesbury road came to mind , and the look of crazy glee on john hockss face .
i looked first in the annexe .
it was empty .
neither there nor in the main room was there any place where something as large as a body could be concealed .
next , i ran down the passage to the incinerator .
i opened the heavy door and looked inside .
nothing .
i called his name , many times i called , but heard nothing in reply .
i was forced to conclude he was no longer in the cellar .
so he must be elsewhere in the house .
the main floor offices were locked .
so was the rear door , to my relief .
but i had left the main door unlocked while i was upstairs with the undertakers men .
it was possible that he had gone out that way .
but why ?
naked but for a sheet ?
disoriented ?
i was completely perplexed .
in all my speculations i had not considered the possibility of his disappearance .
i sat down in the hall and tried to think .
laying aside any thoughts as to his motives , i tried to reconstruct the sequence of events .
west must have left the laboratory while i was upstairs with the two men .
but where had he gone ?
the only logical possibility was out the front door .
the rear door and the one to his offices were both locked , and i should have seen him if he had gone up to the living quarters .
a man wearing nothing but a sheet should be easy to find , i reasoned , and a man who had returned from death only an hour before could not be very fast on his feet .
i ran upstairs and shouted to andre that i had to leave .
i thought i heard a reply but did not stay to make sure .
intending to be methodical , i began by circling the block .
i would then proceed in an increasing radius .
as i rounded the corner onto narrow hill street , a figure emerged from an overgrown lot that adjoined the woods near hangmans hill .
my heart lurched with hope , but it was dashed when i recognized the emaciated , rag clad form of john hocks .
he must have been lying in wait for me .
ha , its you , you running man !
i watched you run away , like you were scared of me .
stupid you , because i knew what i had to do and i did it .
i watched .
i saw them take him out .
they put him in a one of those things with wheels , and they went away .
hes gone !
it took me a moment to comprehend what he was saying , because of the hollow , whispery quality of his voice .
it was as though the organs that produced it were deteriorating .
yes , dr. west is gone .
they took him away to bury him .
does that make you feel better ?
a crafty look stole over his features .
i didnt see anyone bury him .
who knows what those men are going to do with him ?
they could make him alive again , just like he made me .
how do i know they wont do that , huh ?
he thrust his face toward mine and leered at me , releasing an indescribable stench .
i had never been less inclined to talk with this creature , but had no choice .
this was yet another part of the price i had to pay .
you have to believe me .
theyre going to bury him .
if you watch at christ church cemetery , three days from today , you will see .
my word on it .
your word as a gentleman ?
he said , obviously aping something he had heard once .
he stuck out a dirty , skeletal hand , and in my eagerness to be done with him , i took it in mine .
it felt like a bundle of sticks in a bag , but his grip was surprisingly strong .
my word as a gentleman , i said , and tried to withdraw my hand .
hocks laughed and squeezed it more tightly .
not so fast , you !
i know how to do this .
you know my name .
will .
whats yours ?
charles .
i hoped he would be satisfied with that .
all right , mister charles , hocks said , relinquishing my hand after a final squeeze .
but if i dont see a funeral at christ church , ill come looking for you .
he turned abruptly and shambled away into the trees toward hangmans hill .
i continued my search for west but was soon completely exhausted .
a black certainty grew in me as i lurched wearily up and down the streets that i would not see him again , especially if hocks saw him first and recognized him .
i needed to rest before i could do anything more .
once home , i lay down on my bed without bothering to undress , and fell asleep .
i awoke with a start .
my watch had run down , but i thought it was early morning .
the chiming of the mantel clock had awakened me .
six oclock .
i got up and put myself in order once more , but failed to do the same with my thoughts .
i could not stop wrestling with the conundrum of wests disappearance .
where could he have gone , so soon after emerging from death , naked but for the sheet i had wrapped him in ?
the added complication of hocks made me groan aloud .
feverishly , i scanned the morning newspaper as soon as it came , fearing to see a story about a mutilated corpse found in an unlikely place .
except that this time it would not be an itinerant farm labourer or an unknown tramp , but a prominent physician of the town .
but there was nothing of the sort .
relieved and anxious at the same time , i went back to my brooding .
the problem was that to the rest of the world herbert west no longer existed as a living entity .
to everyone except me , he was dead .
his body was at the mortuary , awaiting burial .
this made it impossible for me to tell to anyone about his disappearance , to ask for help in my search for him , or even to make any but the most cautious inquiries .
if i revealed the secret of his revivification to anyone and was believed , i would negate the entire purpose of this terrible adventure .
and if i added that the escaped wild man of arkham was the dead and long forgotten john hocks , who was seeking the missing man with evil intent , i would very likely end up in sefton myself .
i telephoned st. marys hospital and asked the person who answered whether there had been any emergency cases brought in the previous night .
no , she said , it had been exceptionally quiet .
i thanked her and hung up before she could ask me to identify myself .
i considered sounding out sarah enright , but had no heart for the circumlocutions that would be necessary .
she knew me well enough to see beyond my surface wretchedness and guess that something troubled me besides the sudden death of an old friend .
about mid morning my telephone rang , causing me to spring up in a near panic .
perhaps it was west !
it was , but not herbert .
hiram west had arrived in arkham and was at his late brothers home .
would i please come over immediately , he said .
i did not like the tone of the summons , but decided to go , if only to resume my search along the way .
i took a circuitous route to boundary street , peering behind fences and hedges , detouring down alleys and paying special attention to vacant lots , but to no avail .
too soon , i was at wests house .
both hiram and his younger brother jeremy were there .
they had made themselves at home .
jackets and hats had been deposited on the furniture , suitcases reposed on the floor .
jeremy had obviously investigated the liquor cabinet .
as i entered the sitting room he greeted me by raising a glass and asking if i would like a snort .
the two elder west brothers favoured their father in looks , being rather stocky , with dark hair and prominent eyes .
looking at them , i remembered wests uncertainty about his parentage .
west had explained to me some time ago that on their fathers death , hiram jr. had assumed control of the above board business enterprises , while jeremy managed the less savoury ventures .
this certainly seemed to be reflected in their appearance hiram was dressed as soberly as a banker , while jeremy wore a suit whose stripes were a little too wide and lapels a little too generously cut for good taste .
his manner was jovial , altogether in contrast with his brothers laconic style .
hiram motioned me toward an armchair .
he sat down on the sofa next to jeremy , facing me .
he looked at me hard with eyes that i noticed for the first time were an odd light shade of hazel .
who killed him ?
he asked .
it took me a moment to understand , so unexpected was this question .
no one killed him , mr. west .
he died of a brain aneurysm .
thats the official explanation .
i want the truth .
why do you think that isnt the truth ?
because herbert was only thirty six .
and he had never been sick , as far as i know .
except in the head , said jeremy , lifting his glass to his eye and peering at me through the amber liquid .
but at least he always had good booze on hand .
so heres to herbie .
he raised the glass in a mocking toast and drank .
hiram ignored him , except for an eloquent chopping motion of the hand in his direction .
well , milburn ?
i know of no one who would have wanted to murder your brother , i said .
listen , ill describe exactly what happened .
thats all i can do .
i told them what i had told the police the previous morning , about the dinner and my late departure on monday , and our agreement to meet again on tuesday morning .
my arrival at the house only to get no response and my subsequent decision to summon the police .
their investigation and that of dr. tillotson .
after they left i telephoned you , i finished .
yes , and after that ?
after that mrs. fisk , herberts housekeeper arrived , and she and i laid out his body .
why did you do that ?
asked hiram , giving me another keen look .
you should have known there was no need for that .
forgive me , mr. west , but i believe i was your brothers closest friend .
several times during our association he mentioned to me that when his time came to die he wanted only the simplest treatment .
i want to make sure that i dissolve to my fundamental elements and return to the earth , was how he put it .
of course , he was speaking in a purely theoretical way then , but when he died i saw no reason not to comply with these sentiments .
yeah , that sounds like the sort of wacky idea that herbie would have , said jeremy , earning himself another chop from hiram .
all right , but why not just give those instructions to the undertakers men ?
why on earth would the two of you trouble yourselves that way ?
its so primitive .
mr. west , i understand that as one connected with the undertaking business you would naturally think that .
but for mrs. fisk and myself , it was a way to do one last thing for him .
and i think its what he would have wanted .
i stopped , realizing that what i was saying was too sincere for these men .
hiram continued to look offended .
jeremy smirked at me unpleasantly .
i remembered , too late , that i was still wearing wests emerald ring , and that i had been turning it around and around on my finger as i spoke .
had these two ever seen it before ?
i curled my hand into a less conspicuous position .
what about that french fellow who worked for herbert ?
asked hiram .
where is he ?
andre boudreau .
he was in boston .
herbert sent him on an errand on monday morning .
he was to return yesterday afternoon .
well he didnt .
at any rate , he wasnt here when we arrived this morning .
only that housekeeper , mrs .
fish .
mrs. fisk .
andre isnt here now , you say ?
we havent seen him .
maybe he killed herbie , said jeremy .
that would explain why hes taken off .
never mind that now , said hiram .
all right , milburn , lets see if i have this straight for the next half hour we went around and around the events of the previous two days .
the brothers fired questions at me in a way that seemed entirely practiced , as though they did this sort of thing frequently .
they were far more thorough than the policemen had been .
i concentrated hard on my simple narrative and did not deviate from it .
finally , i became annoyed , and decided it was time to show it .
look , mr. west , i said to hiram , i can tell you no more than i already have , several times .
i suggest you speak to officers hatch and foskett , and dr. tillotson .
mrs. fisk also , if shes still here .
im sure she can confirm some of what i have told you .
hiram looked at me as though he suspected some kind of trick .
stay here , he said to jeremy , and went off toward the kitchen .
i had no fears on mrs. fisks account from what i had seen of her , i was certain she could handle hiram west .
i was less certain about myself and jeremy .
he was smirking at me again .
so are you one of them too ?
he asked .
im sorry , i dont know what you mean .
you know , like herbie .
he assumed an exaggerated , limp wristed pose .
pansies !
i remembered what i had read in the quarrington papers and felt a burst of anger at the brute before me .
i dont think you could have known your brother very well if you can make a suggestion like that , i said .
and youre hardly in a position to accuse others of wrongdoing .
he ignored the second sentence .
ill bet you knew him really well , didnt you ?
he said , still smirking .
the return of hiram fortunately spared me from making the reply i wanted to make .
i knew that it would do no good to show my antipathy to jeremy .
that would change his casual baiting of me into active enmity , which would complicate matters in a way that could only be harmful .
the housekeeper cant tell us anything more than milburn has already , said hiram .
he turned to me .
so what was he up to anyway ?
what do you mean ?
herbert .
what were all those experiments of his about ?
he had several areas of research .
i suppose the primary one had to do with how wounds heal and how body parts can be reconstructed .
he acquired this interest during the war and managed to develop it into a specialty of his own .
like that opera singer , interrupted jeremy .
i didnt think herbie had it in him to play in that league .
another chop from hiram .
herbert was doing some sort of experiments with corpses .
i know that because he used to take unclaimed bodies from our mortuaries sometimes .
you know about that too .
i remember you from that fight ten or eleven years ago .
a man was killed in the ring and you and herbert took the body away .
so what was he doing ?
working on a cure for death ?
i laughed weakly .
that would have been a good one !
he wanted that fighters body so he could do tests on physiological changes after death .
he was still a student at the time , if you remember .
as for other bodies , i dont know .
perhaps he needed them as dissection cadavers for his students .
i know theyre difficult to obtain .
hiram gave me a look that suggested he would have liked to dissect me if that would help him get at the truth .
milburn , did you murder him ?
no !
the word burst out of me with more force than i had intended .
he was my friend .
the last thing i wanted was his death .
you insult me by suggesting that .
this time he made the chopping motion at me .
never mind that .
when theres enough at stake , friendship doesnt matter so much .
i know that .
so do you .
whats in it for you , now that hes dead ?
i had little experience with men of this type , whose first consideration in any issue was the weighing of profit and loss .
they believed i thought that way too .
taking a deep breath , i said , mr. west , you are mistaken .
i was your brothers friend , not his business associate .
i didnt understand his research and he didnt tell me much about it .
i gained nothing by his death .
if you believe that i was engaged in some kind of criminal activity , murder or anything else , you should talk to the police .
ive told you everything i know and will not take up any more of your time .
now i must have a word with mrs. fisk .
as i went down the hall toward the kitchen , i heard jeremy mutter , what did you expect ?
goddamn pansies .
mrs. fisk was preparing lunch for the guests .
she looked grim but greeted me cheerfully enough .
i commiserated with her on her recent encounter with hiram .
then i asked , mrs. fisk , where is andre ?
gone .
when i came today he wasnt here , and his things are gone .
but where would he go ?
i dont know .
andre was a good enough fellow but he didnt talk much .
he did love dr. west , no question about that .
maybe now that hes dead andre decided to go back to canada .
perhaps , but i would have expected him to stay for the funeral .
unless he knew i broke off suddenly , realizing what i had nearly said .
but mrs. fisk had other concerns .
mr. milburn , these two gentlemen , are they married , do you know ?
will it be just the two of them , or should i expect some ladies to arrive ?
i replied that i thought both of the west brothers had wives and reassured her that i would ask them to tell her of their plans .
i also said that if it didnt occur to them to pay her for her time i would make it good to her , at whatever hourly rate she had been used to receiving .
because youre under no obligation to them .
oh , its all right .
i want to do it for dr. wests sake .
but those two are a pair of prize petunias , and no mistake .
when i was halfway down the stairs to the ground floor , hiram leaned over the banister .
well be watching you , milburn , so dont think you can get away with any funny business .
i turned and looked up at him .
i have no intention of doing that , whatever you might mean by it .
i plan to be at herberts funeral .
ill see you there .
the funeral of herbert west was held three days after his death .
for some reason , his brothers had decided to make a spectacle of the event .
a charitable interpretation was that this was their way of atoning for their unworthy intentions toward him .
but it was more likely that they saw it as an opportunity to advertise the services offered by wests funeral homes .
this is the deluxe version , they were telling arkham .
show the world how much you care .
make a splash !
the service was held amid the gloomy splendours of christ church , the episcopalian cathedral , which was decked out with massive floral arrangements .
a large choir had been recruited and several of the wests establishments must have contributed their staffs to serve as ushers and ornamental place holders .
i was surprised not to see a brass band on the premises .
for the citizens of arkham , the funeral was the occasion for a great outpouring of curiosity .
the church was full .
nearly everyone who was anyone in the university , medical , or business communities was there , including many who had known west only by repute or not at all .
i saw mrs. fisk in the crowd , accompanied by a youngish man i assumed to be her son .
sitting together was the group of elder professor doctors who had been wests real or perceived enemies since his student days , among them drs .
shortt and hobson , and allan halsey .
i do not know if i imagined it , but the latter seemed to wear a look of triumphant satisfaction .
i turned away , not wishing to see any more of it .
for the first time i was glad that alma was not there .
i was shown to a place immediately behind the seats occupied by hiram and jeremy .
everywhere i saw examples of the duplicity and evil of human nature .
it was in me too , in the burden of dark knowledge and lies i carried .
this very ceremony was one gigantic lie perpetrated by herbert west and myself .
a magnificent casket of mahogany and brass occupied the focal point at the head of the central aisle .
i wondered what west would have thought of it .
perhaps it was a kind of loss leader , having outstayed its welcome in some showroom due to high price and over ornamentation .
a clergyman unknown to me before that day , and probably to west as well , delivered , in practiced , unctuous tones , well worn sentiments on the mystery of death and the bliss of the life to come .
the choir delivered the appropriate hymns at the appropriate intervals .
no fewer than three eulogies were given .
dr. welburn bright , now over seventy and long retired , spoke sentimentally about young dr. west and his brilliance , including his war record and innovative surgical techniques .
i detected some muttering at this from the professional old guard .
then the current dean of medicine , who also happened to be the president of the massachusetts medical association , which west had said was preparing to expel him , intoned a few platitudes whose perfunctory nature made me squirm .
then it was my turn .
i mounted the pulpit and stood for a moment regarding the congregation .
the hundreds of faces merged into a blur , from which only four stood out sarah enright , mrs. fisk , hiram and jeremy west .
it was to them that i addressed my words .
in an episode of black humour , west had written a eulogy for himself as a kind of joke .
in a way i wish i had been able to deliver it , but i could never have said with a straight face things like , even as a student at miskatonic university medical school , dr. west displayed a laudable concern for public morals , including those of his dean .
or , dr. west was anxious to ensure that every citizen does his utmost for the cause of medical research , to the extent that he employed several individuals in this capacity after their demise , thus extending their productive lives .
instead , i spoke of his devotion to the prolonging and improving of life and his generosity .
to those who could not afford specialized surgery , he had delivered his services at no cost .
in conclusion , i said that with his death , a certain energy and optimism had vanished from among us .
to end the service , i had hired three students from the miskatonic university music school to perform excerpts from the string trio arrangement of bachs goldberg variations .
the brothers had objected , arguing that it was secular , irregular and a waste of time , but i insisted , emphasizing that it would take only ten minutes .
they did well , my three young players , considering how short a time they had rehearsed .
they played the aria and the first three variations , then the aria once more .
as the measured , beautiful melody unfolded , flowered and returned to its initial simplicity , i found myself giving in to the grief that had haunted me since that terrible morning , only three days before .
i thought again of the deliberation with which west had gone about planning and executing his suicide .
i thought of his final refusal to evade the horror of the things he had told me in his confession and his entire willingness to accept responsibility .
had this been courage or madness ?
i found that i no longer cared .
two of the undertakers men opened the casket so that the mourners could file past the body before they left the church .
the crowd surged toward it with an eagerness that offended me .
i hung back and scrutinized all individuals that were of a height and build similar to wests .
it would be just like him , i thought , to turn up in disguise at his own funeral .
there was no one that could have been he , but a pair of men , strangers to me , lingered for several minutes .
one appeared to be urging the other to look at the corpse .
eventually they moved on .
the casket was carried out of the church by four minions of wests funeral home , large burly men curiously similar in appearance to one another , as though they had been selected for their physiques over other criteria .
the pallbearers performed a largely symbolic role .
they were men i remembered from wests dinner parties , john billington among them .
i looked at the odd combination of solemnity and excitement on their faces and wondered what they would think if they knew the truth .
only his brothers and i went to the graveside .
they had decided that he should be buried in the derby family plot , beside his mother .
on discovering that i was acquainted with robert derby , hiram had asked me to negotiate this point with him .
he had agreed easily , too easily , i thought .
looking at him , i realized that the lugubriousness i had seen several years ago had become a deep melancholy .
i wondered how long it would be before he followed in his cousin annas footsteps , to sefton asylum or some similar place .
as i watched the casket being lowered into the earth , i noticed a movement some distance behind the onlookers standing across from me .
a deeper shade had formed beneath the nearby trees , like a localized mist , except that there were faces in it , emerging and receding .
in front of this shifting crowd was john hocks .
there was a kind of solemn triumph on his face and when he recognized me he nodded and winked .
when i looked again , he was gone , as were his misty companions .
at first i allowed myself to interpret this weird visitation with hope if hocks had believed me when i told him to watch for wests funeral , he must not have tracked down and killed the true west .
but surely he and his tribe of ghosts would have sensed that the man they sought was still alive .
in that case their presence and hockss mocking wink may have signified that west was dead .
later that day i attended a reception at the boundary street house .
mrs. fisk and an army of helpers had been hired to prepare the rooms and provide refreshments .
i remained in the background and observed the other guests as they engaged in their social pavanes .
several of them came over to me , eager to talk about wests passing .
most were sincere , but in a few faces i thought i saw an expectant curiosity .
one of these individuals was john billington .
i have to admit , he said , that i was shocked to hear of his death , especially after that talk we had .
its occurred to me since then that some of us who were friendly with him should have rallied around and helped him instead of leaving him at the mercy of his own extreme tendencies .
i thought too bad you didnt have these noble ideas a few weeks ago , when they might have done some good .
after all , he only made you a gift of the practice thats providing you with a living .
aloud i said , im sure herbert would have appreciated that , but surely it couldnt have made any difference to the aneurysm that killed him ?
dont tell me you believe that aneurysm explanation , said billington .
im as certain as i can be without evidence that he killed himself .
its only logical .
just because something is logical doesnt mean its the truth , i replied .
and youre right about there being no evidence to support that notion .
in fact , billington , if i were you i wouldnt go around making allegations like that .
you could get into trouble .
he was annoyed and soon went on his way .
i decided i was tired of the charade and was about to make my farewells , when i came face to face with professor hobson .
i intended to elude him after the barest of social amenities , but soon realized that he wanted to introduce me to someone .
sir edward , he said , this is charles milburn .
he was a friend of dr. wests .
mr. milburn , i would like you to meet sir edward clapham lee .
i studied the englishmans face as i shook his hand .
yes , there was a resemblance between him and my memory of the officer i had met in this very room nine years before .
he had the same narrow , quintessentially english face , with its high forehead , long nose and receding dark hair .
then i turned my gaze to the older man who stood a little behind him , a man whom hobson had not troubled to introduce .
he seemed old , but could not yet have been sixty , surely ?
his manner was vague and he did not engage in any conversation , merely gazed about with an amiable but empty look on his face .
his face i studied it as closely as politeness permitted , but saw nothing that suggested a family relationship between him and the younger man .
but neither could i see any evidence that his features had been altered surgically .
was this the man who had been found wandering nameless and without memories in a military hospital in france ?
was this in fact sir eric moreland clapham lee ?
edward clapham lee regarded me with as much curiosity as i had him and his companion .
im delighted to meet you , mr. milburn , he said .
my associate here was in france with the canadian army at the same time as dr. west .
unfortunately hes an amnesiac as a result of his war experiences .
im trying to help him recover his identity .
i thought that perhaps dr. west might have mentioned something in his letters to you that could be of help .
it would have been late in 1917 or early 1918 .
i looked him straight in the eye and lied .
as far as the world was concerned , herbert west was dead .
i had not gone through the anguish of the past week only to turn around and help his enemies , no matter how good their cause .
im very sorry , i said .
i have no recollection of his mentioning such an individual in any of his letters to me .
and unfortunately , i have not kept the letters , so its impossible to go back and look .
after this , there was little between us to sustain a conversation , and the pair soon departed .
i realized as i watched them go that it must have been they who had paused so long by the open casket .
no memories had been triggered , it seemed , by the sight of wests double , but my last sight of the two englishmen was revelatory .
from behind , with their faces invisible to me , the resemblance between them was unmistakable it was in their stance , the way they held their heads , the way they moved .
the younger man held his fathers arm to help him down the stairs .
i watched them out of sight , but i had no intention of following them with my burden of knowledge .
the day after the funeral , once i was sure that the west brothers had left arkham , i went to herberts house again .
thoughts of the flask containing his blood had been troubling me .
i would have to dispose of it somehow , for left as it was , its contents would undergo the loathsome changes of putrescence .
i had dreamt more than once that west had stood before me , pale and gaunt , looking at me reproachfully .
in the blood is the life , a voice intoned .
but it was not his voice .
the prospect of returning to the scene of his revivification filled me with a mixture of dread and irrational hope .
in truth , i still expected to find his corpse .
to my relief , the electricity in wests house was still working .
i switched on the lights over the cellar stairs and descended .
in the laboratory , my eyes went immediately to the table where wests body had lain .
a body lay there again .
i nearly screamed when it sat up and turned toward me .
then i recognized john hocks .
what are you doing here ?
i asked , masking my fear with anger .
he looked better , less cadaverous and decently dressed in a suit , with shirt , vest , necktie and all .
my first thought was that he must have taken the clothing from wests wardrobe .
his voice was distinct but faint , as though it came from a distance .
well , well , its mr. charles , dr. wests friend !
good evening to you , sir !
as for what i am doing here , well , i was resting .
in peace .
no harm done , i assure you .
and what about you ?
why are you here ?
looking for your friend ?
dont you know hes gone ?
theres no one here but us .
he grinned at me , sitting tailor fashion on the table .
im here to make sure everything is in order , the way dr. west would want it to be , i said .
how did you get in , hocks ?
oh , i have my ways .
and thats a good thing , since no one tells me the truth .
not even you , mr. charles .
he slid off the table and came toward me , shaking a finger .
i figured it out , even before i came in here , and when i did , well , it was crystal clear , in a manner of speaking .
what are you talking about ?
dr. west , of course .
i would have said the late dr. west , but he isnt , is he ?
not late at all , but alive again .
that wasnt him they put in that hole in the ground .
you cant fool me , not anymore .
were going to hit the road soon , we friends of herbert west .
were going to find him and make him remember us .
well be with him every night , sing him lullabies , tell him stories , give him interesting dreams .
some day hell know he shouldnt have interfered with us .
he already knows that , hocks .
he told me so , before he died , and i told you .
but he didnt tell me , or the others .
its not your business any more .
you have other concerns now .
his manner had changed he was stern and dignified , and i realized that i could see shelves and a bunsen burner that were behind him , as though he was transparent .
he reached over and picked up the flask containing wests blood .
this is what you came for , isnt it ?
i said i would give you a present .
well , here it is .
i tried not to look at the flask , but i could tell that its contents were a very dark colour .
what makes you think i came for that ?
what is it , anyway ?
i wasnt prepared for hocks to be so perspicacious .
his blood , of course .
the blood of the necromancer .
a precious substance .
as his assistant , you are the inheritor .
and who are you ?
youre not really john hocks , are you ?
it took you long enough to figure that out , didnt it , charles milburn ?
yes , i know your name , but you dont know mine .
not all of them , anyway .
where is he ?
i asked , trying to keep my voice steady .
since you know so much , can you tell me that ?
where is who ?
said the hocks thing , mockingly .
he grinned .
all right , ill stop playing games .
you want me to tell you where herbert west is , so you can go rushing after him .
well , i wont do that .
he has to remake himself without you .
hes finished with you .
will i ever see him again ?
maybe .
it depends .
he held out the flask .
thats enough talk .
take this and listen to me .
come back here in ten days and you will see what there is to be seen .
if you choose .
its up to you .
i had to obey .
i went over and took the flask from his hand .
as my fingers closed around its neck , he vanished .
i heard a sound like a gust of wind , and the clang of a distant door closing .
the flask felt warm in my hand .
moments before , it had been full of dark red blood , but now the liquid was black , bubbling and heaving behind the glass .
i set it down with a shudder and ran for the door .
a lighthearted jaunt to cape cod was out of the question , but i had to get away from arkham .
after a little thought i gathered together a few necessities and went to kingsport .
there were a few boarding houses in the old town , mainly for summer visitors .
it was to one of these that i went , an old house , seemingly ramshackle but solid enough , clinging to the steep hillside like a barnacle .
the landlady showed me to a white painted room at the far end of the house .
one of its two windows looked north to the great cliffs , the other east to the ocean .
when i had unpacked my few belongings , i sat down in a chair by the eastern window and looked out to sea .
i felt something like peace for the first time in days since i had lain on the cliff near here , only one week before .
then , inexplicably , i had a strong sense of wests presence .
it was as though he had come into the room .
the door was closed but the atmosphere was charged with his peculiar energy and the still air rippled with an invisible current .
herbert ?
i spoke aloud , without constraint .
are you here ?
what happened to you ?
please tell me .
as suddenly as it had come , the feeling vanished and i felt foolish , talking to the air .
but it had been so strong .
i wondered again if he were dead , and this had been the final leave taking of his spirit .
as i was preparing for bed that first night , i noticed something .
the sheets and pillowslips were clean and smelled of sea air and wood smoke but to the counterpane there clung , very faintly , the scent of narcissus .
i slept well that night , and all the subsequent nights of my stay in that place .
i had no dreams , or if i did retained no memory of them .
for a week i laid down the burden of speculation and lived only in the present .
i spent the days wandering kingsports crooked streets , occasionally talking with some of the inhabitants , or sitting on the wharf , my mind rendered blank by sun and salty air .
once i climbed up one of the cliffs to see the town from above and to feel again the strange charm of the high places .
on the last day of my sojourn , as i walked slowly along the strip of beach that divided the cliffs from the tidal zone , i saw something shining silver among the pebbles and picked it up .
it was a button , a rather odd one , with an elaborate pattern of twisting and interlocking shapes .
i caught my breath .
west had had a jacket with buttons just like this one .
he had told me that he had them imported from spain , and that the pattern was thought to be celtic in origin , with a connection to a pagan god of medicine .
i wondered what the chances were of someone else having buttons like these .
that evening , i sought out my landlady .
had someone else from arkham stayed in the house recently ?
no , she said , i was the first visitor from arkham in several weeks .
it occurred to me then that west , if he had been here , must have named some other place as his point of origin .
i gave a brief description of him and asked if someone like that had been a guest recently .
she thought hard but could not be sure .
for several days she had been ill and her husband had dealt with the guests .
she would ask him .
a while later , when i had nearly given up , she returned .
yes , her husband remembered a fellow who looked like the one i had described .
hed stayed three nights and left the day before i arrived .
her husband thought the fellow was sick .
looked like death was peering over his shoulder .
good thing he had that french fellow with him , was how hed put it .
he had mostly stayed in his room , which , she said , was the one i had now .
the other man seemed to be his servant .
where had they gone ?
she didnt know .
they had settled their bill and left without saying anything about their destination .
back in my room , i sat by the window , watching darkness gather over the ocean .
he had been here , and andre with him .
i realized now that andre must have been part of wests plan .
he must have coached him in his role , just as he had me .
i could not find it in myself to resent this deception .
he had been preparing for something that would be unthinkable to most people .
who could blame him for hedging his bets ?
at least i could lay aside my fears that he was dead in a ditch .
i searched the room thoroughly , looking for another sign of his presence , however trivial , but there was nothing .
he could not have known , after all , that i would come here .
when i got back to arkham , i found a story in one of the newspapers that had accumulated in my absence wild man dead , said the headline .
the corpse of the so called wild man of arkham , recently escaped from sefton asylum , was found in a wooded area near christ church cemetery .
the state of the body indicated that death occurred several days ago , probably the result of starvation and exposure .
in 1911 this individual was confined in sefton after killing four people .
the true name and antecedents of the unfortunate wretch remain unknown .
his body was buried in the potters field at hangmans hill .
the next day i forced myself to return to wests laboratory .
it was ten days since the disturbing encounter with the entity that was not hocks .
i hoped it had been a hallucination and for proof went back to look at the flask , fully expecting to find the repulsive results of advanced decomposition .
the flask was where i had left it , but now it contained a substance like wax or resin , pale yellow in colour and faintly aromatic , redolent of spices or exotic herbs .
i looked at it for a long time , thinking that someone must have switched flasks , but who ?
wondering if i should have the substance analysed by a chemist , i set the vessel down .
as the glass touched the surface of the laboratory bench , there was a faint but distinct crack .
the flask broke neatly into three parts , which fell apart with a musical tinkle .
among them gleamed a lump of purest gold .
chapter 22 our gold is not the common gold .
rosarium philosophorum i was still in a fragile condition when i came home from work one day to find alma literally on my doorstep , talking with marcus desmond , my landlord .
while they finished their conversation , i had a moment to observe her .
she looked different .
she had had her hair cut and was wearing some fashionably shapeless garment .
i could not tell whether these changes were improvements but resented them just the same .
they seemed to challenge me in some way , to make demands to which i felt unequal .
i invited her inside and offered her a drink .
she took a cigarette and an amber cigarette holder from her bag and spent a few moments fitting them together .
in the not so distant past i would have seen this only as an opportunity for some lighthearted teasing .
now i thought how ridiculous it was that she would take such pains to appear sophisticated .
im afraid ive acquired this disgusting habit , she said , but did not seem particularly regretful .
you look funny , charles .
she blew a cloud of smoke toward the ceiling .
sunburnt and sort of worn .
what have you been up to ?
lazing around in kingsport for a week .
i shrugged .
it should have been the cape , but after wests funeral i didnt feel up to that .
i would have asked you to come , but you were away .
yes , chicago for the past three weeks .
it seemed like three years .
not my favourite town .
i would have much preferred the cape , with you .
i was sorry to hear of his death , charles , for your sake .
but not for his sake , obviously .
i felt suddenly angry .
you never could bring yourself to admit that he had some good qualities , could you ?
and now youre probably thinking good riddance , but isnt it a pity that poor charles has lost his best friend .
dont be so touchy !
no , i didnt like him much , but i admit that he had some good qualities .
almost everyone has a few .
i meant to say that i was sorry not to be at the funeral , again for your sake .
thats perfectly all right , alma .
i managed , with a little help from his brothers .
yes , i managed , i thought .
i managed to drag him back from death , after watching him kill himself first .
then i managed to lose him forever .
oh , you dont know the half of it , miss halsey , so keep your pity to yourself .
i should have made some excuse to cut short this unfortunate visit and see her at some later time when i was feeling less sensitive .
but i didnt .
and alma , with her usual zest for facts to string together pressed on , seemingly unaware of my growing anger .
those two !
she said , referring to the west brothers .
they regularly make headlines in boston .
hiram the businessman and jeremy the crook .
and herbert you know , ive heard some very strange rumours about his death .
oh ?
and what might those be ?
i tried to sound uninterested , but felt a rising apprehension .
everything from a drug overdose to suicide to murder .
six months ago , i would have thought any of those to be pretty unlikely .
except murder , maybe .
i choked down a reprehensible comment and remained silent .
so is there any truth to them ?
she asked finally , when she saw that i wasnt about to volunteer a reply .
im surprised youd even bother to ask .
it seems you have some very loquacious friends here in arkham , with vivid imaginations .
i can imagine who some of them are .
but listen to me if i see so much as a hint , a hint , mind you , in anything you publish that the death of herbert west was by causes other than natural , i will sue you for libel so fast you wont know what hit you .
i see ive hit a nerve , she said , getting up .
i think id better go .
but before i do , id like to say something if he hadnt had the good fortune to die when he did , your friend west would have eventually been revealed to be just as much a criminal as the rest of his family .
i wouldnt be surprised to find hed done more than one murder himself .
so im giving you a choice our friendship or tending a shrine to herbert west .
think about it and give me a telephone call when youve decided .
but ive read the text of that eulogy you gave .
if you were the pope , hed be canonized already , i guess .
so i wont hold my breath .
she picked up her handbag and left .
i heard the sound of her heels tapping down the stairs , then silence .
after this , arkham became hateful to me .
i felt there was a widening gulf between myself and the community in which i had lived and worked for more than twelve years .
i thought that friends and colleagues were avoiding me or looking at me strangely and discussing me in ways i should not have been happy to hear .
my state of mental health was less than robust .
i can see that now , but at the time i felt that i was trapped in a glass bubble filled with a poisoned atmosphere .
i became increasingly isolated .
friends turned away after i repeatedly refused their invitations or lashed out at them in unreasoning anger .
sarah enright had moved to california in pursuit of adventure and opportunities .
i was in a worse position than west shortly before his downfall , for at least he had had me .
thoughts of him brought no comfort .
that winter , as i walked in the dim evenings across the campus or in certain narrow streets of the town , i felt i was being followed .
i would turn around quickly only to see no one behind me except perhaps the suggestion of a dark shape disappearing around a corner .
even as i looked for herbert west in any stranger i met , i feared that one day i would indeed meet him , face to face with only the cold winter air between us .
what might he have become since his death ?
i did not know which would be worse to see the face i had known so well transformed by evil and violent intent , or empty of reason and cognizance , a blank mirror reflecting nothing .
on bad nights i would think about what might happen if i found him , alive but impaired in mind and body .
i imagined us wandering over the land , from town to city to village , weary but fearful of pursuit and capture .
again and again , i try to teach him his name , but fail .
every night i watch him sleep only to wake in terror , clutching me , whimpering .
until the last awakening in the last of a thousand dirty rooms .
his gaze is fixed on me , empty as ever .
i scrabble for the pistol that has been years long ballast in the never unpacked bag of my possessions i aim and fire , twice .
by the spring of 1924 , i had had enough .
i tendered my resignation to dr. armitage and accepted a position at harvard college .
it was of a lower rank than the one i was leaving and cambridge was a more expensive place than arkham in which to live , but i did not care .
like west , i wanted a fresh start , a tabula rasa .
one of my last acts as a librarian at miskatonic university was highly reprehensible .
even now i have twinges of professional guilt .
i visited the quarrington room by night , to look for the last time at the document correlating names to the codes used in quarringtons profiles and predictions .
unfortunately , i had a small accident with a bottle of indelible ink which should never have been brought into the room in the first place .
only a small area was affected , on the last page of the document .
and when i departed , the file labelled dx.37 31 59 went with me .
on my last day in arkham , i visited the derby plot at christ church cemetery .
for a long time i stood regarding a grave on which the headstone had been placed only a few months before .
the carving and inscription on it were familiar to me , for i had myself commissioned them .
it had been necessary to make a particularly generous contribution to the cemetery improvement fund in order to overcome official objections to the image on the grey granite stone a serpent devouring its own tail , the alchemical symbol for unity , for eternity .
the inscription said herbert francis west 1886 1923 life from death .
i had done everything i could .
i laid a sheaf of lilies on the grave and went away .
part 4 providence my story might well have ended with my departure from arkham , were it not for recent events that have made necessary this bridge of words , linking that time with this , 1923 with 1938 .
the waters spanned by that bridge may have seemed placid and shallow but in truth were full of deep whirlpools and sunken debris .
i was never quite able to stop wondering what happened to herbert west .
this was the centre of the spiral , the ultimate source of pain , the wound that refused to heal .
in that cataclysmic week of july 1923 , i discovered within myself the resonant link created or identified by quarrington .
it was powerful and disturbing a bond of love , both that which in greek is called agape , the exaltation of friendship , and the fiery and volatile eros .
our separate fates had converged and become entangled for some purpose beyond my understanding .
when i performed the ceremony of revivification in the secret chamber i felt , no , i knew that i was an instrument in the hand of another power .
i had yielded myself to it for the sake of friendship and love , but when my work was done , i was allowed to fall back to earth while west flew away like the phoenix from its fiery nest , never looking back at the broken tool left behind .
in the years immediately following his disappearance , i had a recurring dream i entered a room , sometimes the bedroom in which he died , sometimes a room i had never seen before , very bright , with a view of the distant sea .
i went in and he turned toward me and held out his arms .
i embraced him with joy , thinking , at last , at last !
he threw back his head and smiled at me .
as though for the first time , i saw his beautiful face transformed by passion .
he closed his eyes , murmuring , kiss me , charles .
but invariably , as i bent to place my mouth on his , i awoke .
at first this dream came several times a year , leaving me , for a day or two , agitated but happy , restless and excited .
as the years passed i experienced it less frequently , then not at all .
when the dream left me i thought , now i have lost completely the secret glory of life .
now all that remains is to grow old .
but all these years later , a few fragments of the old magic remain .
sometimes when i listen to music , or at the fall of an evening in spring , when the very air seems green and the mingled fragrances of growth and blooming steal into my window , i experience again a little of that ecstatic certainty .
long ago , west explained to me that energy is stored in chemical bonds and that the breaking of those bonds releases it into the world .
i wonder if something analogous happens with human experiences , with lives , with relationships .
in the seething welter of human interactions , as friendships are formed and broken , as passions are felt and expressed , vast amounts of psychic energy must be released .
where does it go ?
how is it used ?
i do not know , but find a little comfort in the thought that some unknown force must control these dynamics , just as the known cycle of organic growth and decay drives physical life .
even as the rotting leaves in michael oconnors compost heaps sustained the flowers in my mothers gardens , so perhaps the breaking of the bonds between alma , herbert and myself , the hidden turmoils of our lives , the energies released when body and spirit part , in some way served to sustain the eternal mystery .
or so i hope .
it began again a few weeks ago , with an engraved invitation in the mail miskatonic university anniversary reunion 1738 1938 all alumni , faculty and staff , present and former , are cordially invited to join in celebrating two hundred years .
an opportunity to reunite with old friends and colleagues something made me pause as i was about to put the invitation into the fire .
perhaps it was the familiar mu crest , perhaps the thought of old friends and colleagues striking a warm note in a life that has not been overly blessed with either .
after some thought , i replied that i should be delighted to attend .
when i went to the bank to withdraw funds for my journey , on impulse i also obtained access to the small box of valuables i kept in the vault .
i removed wests emerald ring and put it on my finger .
after i left arkham , i had intended to show it to an expert in order to find out more about its ultimate origin .
but something made me change my mind .
the more i looked at it , the more i became convinced that it should be kept secret .
i was afraid that its strangeness would be revealed as a cheap sham , or that it was a genuine rarity that would attract unwelcome attention to me .
above all , i felt in some obscure way that its time had not yet come , so i had put it away and forgotten it .
it was a shock to see how little arkham had changed since 1924 .
as i entered the city centre i began to see differences a few buildings gone or radically altered .
but the citys profile on the skyline was unchanged .
at one and the same time i experienced a sense of homecoming and the strangeness of arrival in a place unknown .
if i had come by train , the illusion would have been nearly perfect almost i might have been my young self , newly arrived to take up my post at miskatonic university library in 1910 .
the first day there was a speech by the president of the university , followed by a reception and a concert .
by then i had already encountered a number of former colleagues .
to my surprise , they greeted me with apparent eagerness .
this confirmed that my last days at miskatonic had been distorted by pain and anxiety .
i was heartened by these encounters , but they were not the reason i had come to arkham .
the following day i visited the library .
the old building was still there , but had acquired a few more architectural excrescences .
not only was the marriage of styles not a happy one , the new wings had spoiled the proportions of the college quadrangle , but i had to agree that the additional space gained thereby was welcome .
i was secretly glad to see that the cataloguing department still occupied its old quarters .
the department head , a formidably well educated young woman conversant with all the latest theories , showed me around my old haunts .
i had not been away from my work long enough to lose the ability to talk shop , and did so with considerable enjoyment .
i debated with myself whether to visit the necronomicon in its vault of steel .
in the end i decided against it .
whatever role it had played in my life was finished .
i had no desire to experience again the unsettling effect it had had on me many years before .
the link that had been forged by its power had either dissolved forever long ago or still existed .
instead , i wandered the streets of arkham , indulging in memories .
it was just after four in the afternoon when i set out .
the day had been cool and bright but now fog was gathering on the river and seeping along the streets .
i could see the taller buildings of the central area and the spires of several churches floating above the mist .
there was a blueness in the air , a colour that spoke of clearness and yet imposed itself between my vision and the things i looked at .
i remembered what i had seen from the window of wests study the night before his death , and knew that this would be no ordinary stroll down memory lane .
after a while i was no longer sure whether it was 1938 or 1923 or 1911 or some other year altogether .
from my old rooms on peabody street , i proceeded to french hill , where alma had lived , then along college .
i felt that a throng of my old selves followed me the charles milburn who had been wests trusting assistant , the one who had been alma halseys lover , the guilt ridden being who had wrestled with the dilemma of friendship with a murderer .
i watched him kiss alma with a hungry eagerness , gaze in distress at the death struggles of robert leavitt , and read letters from france that contained more than he wanted to admit to himself .
as i was passing the mass of buildings that was st. marys hospital , i noticed a movement on the opposite side of the street .
three men , coming toward me .
the third was rather the worse for drink , it seemed , and was being supported by his companions .
suddenly , one of them began to sing .
the tune was that of the national anthem , but the words were different .
i kept on my way , and they on theirs .
i did not interfere with them , even if that were possible .
i had no desire now to see john hocks revivified , nor to join in the hunt for him afterwards .
before i knew it , i was standing in front of wests house on boundary .
it was still there , the abyss of his death and the crucible from which he had been reborn .
i almost expected it to glow with hidden fires .
but it was only a house .
it had been smartened up with new paint and an elaborate brass knocker .
there were two name plates on the wall beside the door law office , one said .
donald r. murray .
the other said james foster , m.d .
i was about to turn away when someone emerged , a fellow of about forty , carrying a medical bag .
dr. foster , i presume ?
i asked .
yes .
is there something i can do for you ?
im just leaving for the day , but im revisiting old haunts here in arkham , and i wonder if you could tell me anything about this house .
you used to live here ?
there was a gleam of interest in his eye .
no , but a friend of mine did dr. herbert west .
he died many years ago .
herbert west , he said .
i believe someone mentioned that name when i bought the place ten years ago .
he died here , in the house , is that right ?
yes , in 1923 .
he lived on the second floor .
you must like the house , though , since youve stayed here as long as you have .
it suits me .
the offices are just what i need for my practice , and its handy to the hospital .
and the rooms above bring in a little rent every month .
now , if its ghosts youre looking for , you should talk to murray , my tenant .
i doubt if he would have seen anything , though .
hes a hard headed young fellow .
he laughed , showing white teeth that gleamed in the dusk .
oh , im not thinking about ghosts , i said .
merely looking for old memories .
do you get much use from the cellar ?
hardly at all .
there isnt much to it , is there ?
just that little storage room behind the furnace .
but it suits me as it is .
now you must excuse me .
he hurried off and was soon lost in the shadows .
so the hidden rooms had not been discovered , either by foster or whoever had owned the house before him .
possibly not by wests brothers , either .
i wondered again where he had spent the hours between my last sight of him and his departure .
and where was he now ?
to these questions the gathering dusk gave no answer .
where now , indeed ?
my hotel was on river street .
the logical route would be to follow boundary street northwards , but a small detour would take me to hangmans hill .
my pilgrimage would be incomplete without a visit to that place .
i was growing tired but was determined to see the thing to its end .
in the graveyard i could just see the markers and one or two freshly made mounds .
as far as i could tell , the place was much the same as it had been in 1911 .
i could not tell which grave was that of john hocks .
i turned toward the wood that lay between me and the road .
among the trees i thought i saw figures moving .
they manifested into discernable entities as i drew nearer .
at first i could not imagine what they were , but then i knew .
they were wests mindless creatures , aimlessly wandering .
why here ?
i wondered .
had he brought their ashes here , not wanting , despite his disavowal of such fancies , to have them near his house ?
i tried to count them , but was unable to fix on any one long enough .
they walked without purpose , without destination or awareness , of me or of one another .
two or three of them came near enough that i saw their faces .
they were recognizably human , but as empty of expression as stones .
neither joy nor hatred , fear nor pain , could trouble them ever again .
he had been right about that .
so what was it about these beings that froze my heart ?
was it that they were capable of movement , unlike other things entirely without mind ?
yes , it was their incompleteness that made them travesties of human life .
this perversion of the life force for his own purposes must surely have weighed heavily against him .
but it was no longer for me to reckon that up .
i had made my choice fifteen years before and could not change it now .
hardly knowing what i did , i began to say the prayer for the dead .
i bent down and picked up a handful of earth , scattering it over the place where i had seen the wandering shapes .
this was all i could do .
i turned away and bent my steps toward the lights on river street .
on my last day in arkham i went to christ church cemetery , even though i was fully aware that it was not my friend who lay in the grave marked with his name .
there is something in human nature that demands a tangible monument , and this one was as good as any .
if it wasnt herbert west who lay under that stone , it was certainly a good part of myself .
for all i knew , west had no grave as yet , except the one within himself , and , in a strange way , the house on boundary street .
but that was an empty grave .
i made my way to the derby plot and found the stone .
grey granite , with his name and dates .
the self devouring serpent .
life from death .
there were flowers on the grave a few purple asters and some bronze coloured chrysanthemums .
who had put them there ?
i stood for a while , wondering .
then i heard steps behind me , and a voice .
still tending the shrine , i see , charles .
i turned around and saw alma halsey .
like me , she was middle aged , in her early fifties , still slender , with an elegance that i did not remember .
her hair was more silver than blonde but her eyes seemed bluer by contrast , and had lost nothing of their clarity and sharpness .
alma , i said , youre here after all .
ive been avoiding you , charles , she replied in her forthright way .
i wasnt sure youd want to see me again , even though its been so long .
ironic that we should meet here , isnt it ?
she indicated the grave .
wasnt he a christian , herbert west ?
that looks more like a pagan symbol to me .
im surprised it was allowed .
i had to do some serious negotiations to get permission to put the stone here .
and no , its not exactly a christian symbol , even though it stands for eternity .
west wasnt a christian , not at all .
an atheist , i suppose ?
an agnostic , i think .
he didnt deny the existence of god , in theory , but without direct experience consigned god to the unknowable .
but did you come here to ?
those flowers i came to see my parents graves .
but yes , i put those there .
i thought i owed him an apology .
you too , charles .
she laughed , sounding embarrassed .
it was a shock to see you here , big as life .
i nearly slunk away , but knew that would pretty well negate my noble intentions .
i went closer to her .
alma , all that is in the past .
it doesnt matter any more .
but it does .
it does .
sometimes it seems to matter more than the present .
i was surprised at her words and the sorrowful way in which she said them .
she had always been the optimist , the forward looking one who had jollied me out of gloomy thoughts .
not true .
look , i have my car here .
suppose we go and have dinner somewhere .
its a little early , but the past needs to be diluted with the present .
and some good food and wine .
all right , charles .
she laughed .
oh , im so glad you turned up ! .
i should have known better than to come here alone .
already she seemed more cheerful .
in a restaurant on river street which may have been called da vincis once , i encouraged alma to talk about herself as we waited for our meals to come .
she had had an interesting life , moving from place to place , newspaper to newspaper .
finally i got sick of being rootless , she said .
now i teach in the school of journalism at columbia and do some freelancing .
i have more time to think and lately ive been thinking a lot about you and our friendship , all those years ago .
and what have you concluded ?
i asked , trying to inject some lightness into my tone .
i was afraid she would fall again into the mood of melancholy i had seen at the cemetery .
that i never did understand you .
i thought i knew what was good for you , and when you seemed to think differently , i resented that .
and theres something i should have told you right from the start .
what , alma ?
the real reason i resented herbert west .
years ago , when he was an undergraduate at miskatonic , i audited some courses math and biology .
about 1906 or 07 , this would have been .
west was in one of the biology classes .
i couldnt help but notice him .
i nodded .
i knew what she meant .
i guess i became infatuated with him , alma continued .
it was his intelligence , his style , his joy in argument , his beauty .
i even wrote him a poem , a sonnet .
it was meant to be a kind of intellectual tribute , but i guess my emotions showed .
i gave it to west in class one day .
he read it and handed it back to me , very politely .
i must thank you for the compliment this represents , miss halsey , but i can not accept it , he said .
i asked why not , logically enough .
he said , i dont want you to cherish any illusions about me .
to me you are nothing more than an intellect .
im sorry , but thats the way it is .
then he walked away .
i was mortified .
i thought he had insulted me .
i quit the class and avoided him afterward , which was easy enough .
when i heard he had entered the med .
school , i went out of my way to put him in a bad light to papa every chance i got .
i convinced myself he was a bad sort , and you have to admit he did himself no favours a lot of the time .
but when i told you he wasnt my type , i was telling the truth , because by then i had convinced myself of that .
i thought for a moment .
i think you misunderstood him .
he was trying to tell you something about himself , not insulting you .
oh , and what might that have been ?
well , that he wasnt interested in any sort of romantic involvement .
but not because of anything specific , you understand .
not only you , any young woman would have gotten that sort of reaction , i think .
hmm .
i wondered about that , later .
i thought he was just cold and stuck up , but youre telling me he wasnt attracted to women at all , is that right ?
thats it .
he didnt want to give you the wrong impression , but theres no easy way to say something like that .
hmm , she said again , with a strange little smile .
well , charles , i must say i didnt expect these insights from you .
you certainly are a deep one .
is that better than a romantic ?
you and herbert were always calling me that .
you never married , then ?
no .
my lifes been too unsettled .
i was always racing off somewhere .
i have to admit there were times i was happy to have my work as an excuse .
well , there you are .
you made the choices that seemed best at the time .
and you ?
youre still a bachelor ?
why do i ask ?
its written all over you .
i was not sure what she meant by that .
i am rather proud of my ability to keep myself presentable .
i decided that it must have been my air of self sufficiency to which she referred .
yes , but unlike you i can not plead an unsettled life .
if anything , mine has been too settled .
i suppose im just not the marrying type .
she looked at me for a moment .
so while i was gallivanting around europe after the war , you and west were still bosom buddies ?
i was jealous of him , you know , even when you and i were lovers .
i somehow felt all along that his claim on you was greater than mine .
i tried to give her part of the truth , at least .
at times , i suppose .
but there were plenty of times when i hardly saw him for weeks on end .
i suppose i became a little muddled about some things after you left .
she shook her head .
what a pair we are .
or arent , rather .
charles , why didnt we get married ?
you were too busy trying not to conform .
and i well , i dont know .
perhaps i just didnt relish acquiring a mother in law .
she laughed out loud .
oh charles !
she was rather awful to you , that time i introduced you .
things were so different then , werent they ?
sometimes i look back and wonder what i should have done differently .
its as though i missed a turn somewhere .
do you ever feel that way ?
what could i say ?
between us lay the gulf of lies i had created even when we were lovers and friends .
i had never told her about my involvement with wests experiments , or the dark roads down which i had followed him .
as far as alma halsey was concerned , the grave on which she had placed her propitiatory flowers that day was indeed the final resting place of herbert west .
i knew that if i wanted to reestablish any kind of relationship with her i would have to tell her the truth .
but until i knew that west was indeed dead , dead for the second time , finally and forever , i was not at liberty to do that .
i knew alma her sharp mind and talent for spotting patterns .
retired from journalism or not , she would not be able to resist the allure of the story .
it was ironic if there was anyone who might be able to help me find out what had happened to west , it was she .
and i could not tell her .
despite the softening of her attitude toward him , i feared that for her the search would become a crusade to bring a criminal to belated justice .
i could not permit this .
not after the agonies of my own choices .
not until i knew what he had done with the life i had helped restore to him .
so i looked right into her blue eyes and said , yes , i often feel that im an entirely different person from the one i was all those years ago .
i remember things i said and did , and its like watching a stranger .
ive felt that pretty strongly these past few days , walking around arkham .
you know , sometimes i think we need two chances to be young .
one for practice , then a second one after weve learned a thing or two , so we can finally get it right .
so you feel that way too .
i wonder if its another effect of growing older .
we dont get another chance , though .
but its not too late , surely , to change things , even now ?
she looked so forlorn that i nearly wavered in my resolve .
i nearly said , alma , i dont know whether its too late or not .
i wont know that until i know what happened to him .
instead , i took her hand and said , alma , its never too late , not while we are alive .
i thought i saw a gleam of tears in her eyes , which she attempted to conceal by looking down at our joined hands on the table .
she said , that ring youre wearing its beautiful , but very odd .
where did you get it , if you dont mind my asking ?
i did mind , rather , but decided to tell her the truth .
when it came to this ring , the truth at my disposal was limited .
from west , actually , i said .
he left it to me in his will .
his piano , his books and this ring .
i think his mother gave it to him , but where she got it is anyones guess .
i see , she said .
or rather , i dont , but it certainly is unusual .
the funny thing is , im sure ive seen something rather like it before .
not a ring , but jewellery with similar patterns .
i cant remember where , exactly .
she looked closely at my face , and seemed about to ask me something else , but thought better of it .
we went on , then , to speak of other things .
that , at least , had not changed .
alma and i had always been able to talk to one another .
except that last time in arkham , of course .
as we prepared to leave the restaurant , she said , oh , before i forget i have something for you a letter from someone who must have lost touch with you when you moved from arkham .
oh really , now who could that be ?
just a minute .
i have it in my bag .
yes , here it is .
its from someone called francis dexter , in providence .
she held out the letter to me .
i took it from her , and it was as though an enormous mechanism moved in the heart of the world and a door swung open that had been closed for fifteen years .
i did not need to look at the handwriting on the envelope .
my primary effort was directed to maintaining a neutral expression as i glanced at the letter and put it in my pocket .
but my heart was beating so hard i was sure she could hear it .
francis dexter , of providence hmm , i wonder who that could be .
the name isnt familiar .
how did you come by this , alma ?
i had to distract her .
would the supposed fact of his death withstand the quickness of her mind ?
we had met by the grave , with his full name inscribed on the stone before us .
it was here in arkham , two or three months ago .
i was walking down college , past where you used to live , when who should come out of the house but marcus desmond .
i hadnt seen him in years , but he asked me in for a visit as though it had been just the week before .
we talked for a while , and then he asked if i ever saw you , because he had a letter for you .
it had arrived a few weeks before .
it was lucky he remembered it before it got buried in some heap of papers .
i guess he must have had a forwarding address for you once , but probably lost it .
you know marcus .
anyway , i said i didnt see much of you these days , living in new york and all , but he insisted i take it .
you get around more than i do , alma , he said .
im sure youll see charles before long .
well , it occurred to me if i needed an excuse to look you up , this was as good a one as any , so i took it .
and last week when i was getting ready for this trip i remembered it and brought it along .
and here you are .
by now we had come to the hotel where she was staying .
its been wonderful to see you again , alma , i said .
i hope we dont lose touch again .
we may not get a second chance to be young again , but i hope we may have a second chance at friendship .
and the next time we see each other , i may have a story to tell you .
she looked at me questioningly , and seemed about to say something , but before she could , i kissed her cheek and said good night .
then i went to my own room to read his letter .
kingsport again .
i drove out here before starting on my journey , so i could watch the sunrise and think about the future .
i slept fitfully last night .
i could not stop thinking , doubting , wondering , hoping .
finally , at four oclock i gave up , packed my belongings and settled my bill with the sleepy fellow at the desk .
the morning mist is rising from a turquoise sea as smooth as glass , and on the far horizon a bank of purple clouds is edged with flame .
the day is full of promise .
i should have a pleasant drive south .
all of my night thoughts come down to a single question who is francis dexter ?
is he only herbert west under a different name ?
i do not think so .
has he become , as quarrington predicted , one who has power in his hands , yet subjects himself to a greater power ?
west acknowledged no powers greater than logic and mechanism .
but as i read his letter , i thought i could hear echoes of the old prognosticator .
could it be that in the transformation from west to dexter some other inheritance has been bestowed ?
even his handwriting is different .
i have read the letter so many times already that i have memorized parts of it , especially the last few paragraphs certain things of which i am not now at liberty to speak have persuaded me that the resonant link between us is as valid a force now as it was in 1923 and before .
you know what was achieved by that power years ago .
i think that before i die my second death i will need to call upon it again .
in a way , that ultimate experiment we performed in 1923 went on for years , perhaps is still going on .
i can say with perfect truth that i have been remade .
is francis dexter a better man than herbert west ?
i think so , but the ultimate judgment is no longer mine .
charles , i need your help once more .
if you are thinking as you read this , fifteen years of silence , then he has the audacity to ask for my help again , all i can say is yes it is so .
once again , the choice is yours .
yesterday was warm and today it seems that we have slipped from spring to summer .
there is a garden here , which has become andres pride and joy .
and mine too , in a different way .
the early roses are beginning , andre tells me , and the lilies promise well .
please come .
yours in hope , francis dexter .
i remind myself that i know nothing .
herbert west was not the most truthful of men .
how can i tell whether or not this is also true of francis dexter ?
i can not .
there is no one with whom i can verify his statements .
for all i know , dexter may be an even more practiced deceiver than west .
his eloquent , nearly hypnotic sentences tantalize and seduce with references to secrets i have been unable to share with anyone for fifteen years .
i recognize this , but have let myself be tantalized , just the same .
as he says , the choice is mine .
and ultimately , it must be made on the basis of belief rather than knowledge , just as in 1911 , when i followed a fascinating stranger into the unknown .
there is no need for further debate with myself .
i have decided what i am going to do .
when i go home to cambridge i will write down all my memories of those days .
i want to get them straight , so that when i tell alma this story i will have the truth in black and white .
but now i am as free as i have ever been in my life .
first , i will go to providence .
the roses and lilies in his garden may have faded , but the year turns toward the good darkness and will turn to the light again .
it is time to begin .
end a note from the author i discovered the works of h.p .
lovecraft through a handful of little ballantine paperbacks whose covers were embellished with pictures of grotesque heads .
one was splitting open despite an iron band and padlock around the forehead to release a horde of little red bats .
another was a mixture of rat and human , complete with a tail sprouting from the cheek .
over the years , i acquired more paperbacks as i tried to find and read all of hpls stories .
some of the ballantine books contained lists of the titles , and i can still see the tick marks i made as i succeeded in tracking down the tales .
only herbert west , reanimator remains unticked .
the occasional comments about this story i came across in books about lovecraft were disparaging , but that only increased my curiosity about it .
why was it so elusive ?
i didnt read that story until 1998 , when i found it by accident in a library .
the commentators were right its not one of lovecrafts best works .
but it has something not often found in hpl a memorable main character who does more than witness the weird .
herbert west was compelled to reanimate corpses , and the nameless narrator of the story was , apparently , compelled to help him .
why ?
thats the question i began to answer with this book .
i didnt realize it would take three more books to finish the task .
i devised a life story and family for herbert west and sent him on a journey that takes him around the world and ends with a return to arkham .
readers familiar with herbert west , reanimator will recall that the unnamed narrator of that story was also a medical student and , later , a physician .
when i decided to write a novel based on the story , i deliberately made my narrator , charles milburn , a librarian .
i knew i could never do a good job of representing the knowledge and attitude of a medical man of the early 20th century , but i am a librarian .
lovecraft mentioned the miskatonic university library in several of his stories , so nothing could be more natural than for charles to be employed there .
music i listened to while writing this book j.s .
bachs goldberg variations , in performances by glenn gould and murray perahia , as well as an arrangement for string trio performed by a group called triskelion .
this music found its way into the narrative .
loreena mckennitts album , the mask and the mirror , specifically the dark night of the soul was a huge influence on the atmosphere and the way the story developed .
for more of my views on writing and other topics , read my blog at http audreydriscoll.com other books in the herbert west series book 2 .
islands of the gulf volume 1 , the journey to andre boudreau , herbert west is the doctor , who saved his life in the great war .
andre will follow him into hell if necessary .
margaret bellgarde knows him as dr. francis dexter , attractive but mysterious .
one day she will be shocked by what she is willing to do for his sake .
but who is he really ?
he doesnt know and the possibilities are disturbing .
book 3 .
islands of the gulf volume 2 , the treasure abandoned and abused , young herbert west resorts to drastic measures to survive .
emotionally wounded , he becomes a scientist who commits crimes and creates monstrosities .
decades later , haunted by his past , he finds safety as dr. francis dexter of bellefleur island , but his divided nature threatens those he loves and forces him to face the truth about his healing powers .
book 4 .
hunting the phoenix journalist alma halsey chases the story of a lifetime to providence , rhode island and finds more than she expected an old lover , charles milburn , and an old adversary , renegade physician herbert west , living under the name francis dexter .
fire throws her into proximity with them both , rekindling romance and completing a great transformation .
preview of book 2 of the series islands of the gulf volume 1 , the journey part 1 , andre boudreau im not the kind of guy who sits down and writes his life story .
other people do it , and good luck to them .
the doctor , now , hes got a story to tell , and i am happy to talk with him about old times if it helps him to remember things for his book .
but me , andre boudreau , why should i do that ?
im the one who polishes his boots and sews on his buttons , and makes sure the coal is delivered on time .
someone has to do all that , and hes lucky its me , because i am a man who can do what needs to be done .
a couple of weeks ago he comes to me and says , andre , i want you to write down all about your life , everything you can remember .
i see a way to wiggle out of that .
but doctor , you know i cant remember much from before yes , but you can remember what happened after that .
i know , because i hear you yarning with the tradespeople .
so just remember it all in order , and write it down .
yarnings different , i say .
you dont have to tell things in order .
and you dont have to tell the truth .
he laughed at that .
oh , i know for sure he doesnt always tell the truth .
i had him there , all right .
but he wasnt about to give up on the idea .
well , at least start remembering .
as for the writing down , it will have to be a collaborative effort .
i can think of someone who could help you with that part .
but you have to do your own remembering .
all right , doctor .
but dont expect too much .
he was right , theres a hell of a lot stuffed into my brain .
its like a trunk thats been packed in a hurry by someone who doesnt care .
you pull on one thing and six others come flopping out .
i guess ive been thinking about trunks and packing because i just did a lot of that .
a few weeks ago , the doctor and i moved into this house , on college hill , providence , rhode island .
there arent a lot of miles between here and arkham , but there were for the doctor and me , since we left there fourteen years ago , in 1923 .
a whole world of miles .
you could say weve both been to hell and back .
i didnt see the devil , but i think he did .
i dont have memories of my childhood .
my first memories are of blackness .
i came out of blackness .
i was a very small thing , a little spark in the blackness .
that was all , for a long time .
then i began to see .
only for short moments , like when theres lightning at night .
except it was slow lightning .
id open my eyes and see things , but i didnt know what they were .
now i think they were the roof of a tent , the inside of a train , the ceiling of some building .
a face .
another face .
faces coming and going .
sometimes i heard groans , screams , someone praying in words i couldnt understand .
maybe it was me .
i couldnt feel anything , though .
there was no pain .
i wasnt even cold .
then the darkness again , for i dont know how long .
it wasnt really me who saw and heard these things , just a little part of me acting like a scout for the rest , which was back in the blackness , waiting for the scout to report so it could decide what to do next .
there was one picture clearer than the rest i saw the angel of death standing before me .
he was beautiful and terrible all white and silver , with eyes like ice .
he looked at me for a long time and said , no .
not this one .
hes already dead .
so i thought , theres no need to hold on anymore , and let myself slide back into the blackness .
as i went i said goodbye to everything my childhood , family , comrades , my newly hatched young mans ambitions and lusts .
i wasnt going to go back to new brunswick after the war to show them how things worked in the big world .
goodbye , everyone .
goodbye maman , papa , nicholas , michel , roger , paulette , marguerite , sweet little louise .
goodbye , grassadoo , goodbye andre .
short but sweet , it was .
now its all gone .
i dont know how long it lasted .
i do n't think i 'll ever know .
but it was nothing .
there was no i any more .
its like trying to think of what there was , before there was anything .
before god made the world there was nothing , they say .
but there was no , nothing .
my mind cant think this thing .
so i say only there was nothing .
then , my first new memory .
it was only a feeling .
hot , like fire .
fire was running all through me .
i was a man made of fire and heat , my shape burning a hole in the nothing .
a red mist swirled through my head and i could feel my heart pumping .
no , being pumped , by something outside me .
it was like a machine had taken over and was running me , running too hard and hot and jerky .
it felt dangerous .
it felt wrong .
it was worse than dying .
i was terribly afraid .
maybe i was in hell and this would go on forever .
then i opened my eyes .
no , that wasnt it .
my eyes were opened , like somebody pulled a string .
light stabbed into my head , and the pain it made joined the heat in my body .
i saw the angel again and thought , i must be in heaven .
but why does everything hurt , and why am i so afraid ?
he was different now , not like the death angel i saw before .
he was white and golden now .
there was a brightness behind his head , and his strange bright eyes seemed to look right into my soul .
i was still afraid , but i could feel his hands touching me , cooling the heat in my body .
then i was in a river , moving faster and faster .
was i going to drown ?
i didnt care any more .
it was too much trouble to care .
i closed my eyes and gave up .
if the angel wanted to , he would save me .
if not , it didnt matter .
there is a carved wooden angel in the church at grassadoo , new brunswick , where i was born .
when i went back there in 23 , it was still there .
i almost remembered it .
when i saw it , i felt my breath go in sharp and i thought , its raphael !
that was my name for him .
and my second thought was , yes , thats why .
thats who he reminded me of .
the carving was very old .
it was made from a piece of wood from the beach , and its shape was made by the shape of the wood .
so he had short hair , this angel , painted yellow , and a halo that the carver had made from a different piece of wood and stuck on with pegs .
his wings were kind of small , but that didnt matter , because they were the right shape , and he wasnt going to fly anywhere .
he had bright blue eyes , but the look in them wasnt very angelic .
something about the way the carver had painted them made it look like the angel wanted to fight instead of praying and singing hymns .
one of my younger brothers told me that i used to tell him stories about that angel when we were boys .
you called him raphael , michel told me .
and you said you used to argue with him in church .
well , i couldnt argue with michel about that .
who knows , maybe i did tell him those things .
michel said i told him i could hear the angels voice in my head .
i would complain to him about things that made me mad , and he would help me .
how did i say he helped me ?
i asked .
he would tell you the reasons for things .
like when papa had to shoot your dog .
or when maurice and peter drowned in the big storm .
you said that raphael would say to you , are you going to lie down and die because of this , andre ?
because if you do i wont be your friend anymore .
so what am i saying here ?
yes , there is a wooden angel in the church at grassadoo .
yes , im pretty sure i called him raphael when i was a boy .
and when i woke up again , in 1917 , when i came out of the blackness , i thought i recognized him .
i just kept looking at him , because that was all i could do .
i didnt know who i was , where i was , or why i was there .
there was only him .
the strange heat was gone .
i almost missed it , because now i could feel pain four or five different kinds , if i thought about it , or i could just let them mix together into one big pain .
i was afraid to move , because some of the pains felt dangerous , like they would get much worse if i gave them a reason to .
i could feel liquids oozing out of me in places , soaking into the bedding and making cold spots .
was i still in the river ?
maybe i was lying in mud on the shore .
but no , there was a ceiling over me , so that couldnt be it .
i looked at that ceiling for a long time .
i got to know it really well , the colours , stripes , streaks and knots .
it was made of corrugated iron laid on wooden beams .
a bright shiny streak in the metal drew my eye .
nearby was a patch of rust that looked like a face with a beard , and a bunch of dark spots , like little black stars .
one of the beams was light and plain , another had dark and light stripes , and a third one was all dark , with a couple of knots in it .
i counted seven spider webs in the angles between the metal and the beams .
i looked at that ceiling until my eyes got tired and closed .
i had a dream about sailing a little silver boat in the sky , with a man who had a bushy red beard .
when i woke up , it was dark .
i started to get scared .
and mad .
why was i all alone ?
i knew there was something wrong with me , even if i didnt know what .
i was thirsty and i had to piss .
screw the pain , '' i thought , and turned my head so i could see more of the place .
when i tried to get up i found out that my arms and ankles were held down with clamps .
i couldnt get loose , no matter how much i struggled .
i felt my bladder let go and thats when i started to yell , like a baby in his crib .
i dont know how long i yelled , but nobody came .
when i woke up again , someone was with me .
there was still pain , but i could feel heat in the places that hurt not the dangerous heat like before , but a good heat , as though something was working hard to fix my body .
i wasnt thirsty and the sheets were dry .
someone is helping me , i thought .
maybe its the angel .
he was still there , tucking the blankets around me , pulling them up to my chin .
that was what woke me up .
i could see him better now , and i wondered was this really the angel ?
i didnt think angels wore clothes with buttons .
and i didnt think they ever got tired .
this man was tired .
i could see it in his eyes .
that was another thing his eyes werent blue , like raphaels , but grey , the colour of river ice before it melts in spring .
he must have seen me looking at him , and he spoke to me for the first time .
youre going to live , i think .
i wasnt sure at first , but its been twelve hours now .
the hemorrhaging has stopped and youre a little stronger .
tomorrow ill move you to a place where you can be looked after properly .
can you speak ?
whats your name ?
can you tell me that ?
i couldnt say a thing .
i had forgotten how to talk .
i could understand his words , but i didnt know how to make any myself .
and my name ?
i didnt know that either , and that scared me all over again .
he must have seen that , because he touched my shoulder and said , never mind .
its too early for that .
enough that youre alive .
dont worry , ill look after you .
i want you to live .
youll be the tenth one of a select company .
go to sleep now .
ill be back later .
i didnt want to sleep .
i wanted to think about all this .
i would be the tenth what ?
what was wrong with me ?
who was he ?
and who was i ?
but i felt a little bee sting in my arm , and then i was sliding asleep .
this time i dreamt that i was on a train , going up a mountain .
part of me was trying to enjoy the trip , but another part kept wondering what would happen when i got to the top .
would the train go roaring down the other side ?
it went slower and slower .
then there was a jolt and a shake , and i was flying .
i woke up , and it was morning , and all the birds were singing .
notes from the case book of herbert west .
august 16 , 1917 , 2 20 a.m. subject 17.8.5r non experimental subject was dead approx .
6 hours .
time between administration of fluid and revivification 95 minutes .
time elapsed since revivification 12 hours .
vital signs respiration normal heart rate , 70 blood pressure , 120 60 .
general appearance good .
injuries trauma of lower left abdomen , right thigh and left arm .
no broken bones .
no foreign matter left in wounds .
instilled regenerating substance .
installed drains .
subject stabilized .
no further loss of fluids .
prognosis excellent .
cognitive abilities unknown as yet subject unable to speak .
when i opened my eyes again , i knew i was somewhere else .
the light was different daylight , not lamplight like before .
i was in a big bright room with windows .
and other people .
i could see the end of a metal bed , past where my feet were .
in the distance , another bed .
grey blankets .
i turned my head one way and the other .
more metal beds and grey blankets , and in each bed , a man .
hospital , i thought .
then , whats a hospital ?
why did i think that ?
who are all these men ?
who am i ?
there were people moving around the room .
women , dressed in blue and white .
mothers , i thought .
but where was he ?
ill be back .
that was what hed said .
but now i was somewhere else .
would he be able to find me ?
that was very important .
so when one of the mothers came close to me i raised my hand and tried to grab her sleeve .
ou est monsieur lange ?
i asked .
my voice felt rusty , and she didnt seem to have heard me , so i said it again , trying hard to talk louder .
she turned and bent over me .
she isnt a mother at all , i thought .
shes too young .
i could see smooth brown hair under the veil she wore .
so shes a nun , i thought .
then , whats a nun ?
her eyes were light brown , with little green flecks .
oh , you can speak now , she said .
thats good .
ill tell major west .
he specially asked us to tell him when you started to talk .
of course she spoke in english , and even though i could understand her , i couldnt answer in english , only in french .
qui est major west ?
i asked .
but she was gone .
when he came , he spoke french to me .
at first i couldnt understand him , because of his strange accent .
plus i had just woken up from a long sleep , so i was feeling stupid .
i asked him the first thing that popped into my fuzzy head .
is your name raphael ?
he smiled .
no .
my name is herbert west .
im your doctor .
and you , it seems , are andre boudreau , from grassadoo , new brunswick .
he tripped over grassadoo , just enough to make me smile too and nearly forget that the name andre boudreau didnt mean a thing to me .
he might have been introducing a stranger .
if you say so , i said .
i dont know who i am .
or where i am .
or anything .
its all right , andre , he said .
youre perfectly safe with me .
ill help you get better .
so dont worry .
he touched my shoulder and smiled .
and i stopped being scared and went back to sleep .
that was the first time i had this dream a rutted country road , curving around the side of a hill , and a girl running along it , crying .
the girl is my sister , marguerite , carrying a bundle of food from our mother .
maman said that no child of hers would ever leave her house hungry .
so sad , her little face was , so sad .
notes from the case book august 28 , 1917 subject 17.8.5r andre boudreau subject appears to be a complete amnesiac .
cognitive abilities may be normal .
speaks english and french new brunswick dialect ?
odd pronunciation .
short term memory good .
retains knowledge of concepts hospital , war , army , etc .
but no specifics about himself .
physical condition improving rapidly .
all wounds nearly healed .
must find reason to keep him here .
amnesia might preclude return to action verify .
is he a tabula rasa ?
experiments with his mental development might prove interesting .
the caves of etretat by matt chatelain published by matt chatelain copyright 2011 by matt chatelain smashwords edition april 2012 this book is a work of fiction .
names , characters , places and incidents either are products of the author 's imagination or are used fictitiously .
any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons , living or dead , is entirely coincidental .
all rights reserved , including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever .
smashwords edition , licence notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase another copy for each recipient .
if you 're reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return it to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thanks for respecting the hard work of this author .
cover art by matt chatelain cover design by ebook cover design to contact author visit www.mattchatelain.com to mom table of contents foreword chapter one chapter two chapter three chapter four chapter five chapter six top secret document from weissmuller chapter seven chapter eight chapter nine a selection from the weissmuller manuscript chapter ten chapter eleven chapter twelve my final story , by maurice leblanc chapter thirteen a selection from the weissmuller manuscript chapter fourteen a selection from the weissmuller manuscript chapter fifteen chapter sixteen a selection from the weissmuller manuscript chapter seventeen addendum an interview with the author the sirenne saga more books by the author about the author author website contact info bonus excerpt from book two second bonus brief excerpt from the vostok juncture foreword i have been led to certain knowledge and this has caused me to re evaluate everything i believe about the world .
the knowledge did not come easily .
i was manipulated into walking a trail , never knowing what i was to find until it was upon me .
in light of what i now know , my last task before i leave this world will be to write a chronicle , these four books , so i may reveal how this began .
a whole series of events were occurring in step with my journey .
others happened before i was born .
i have inserted various journals at key points in this chronicle to clarify the multitude of connections leading me forward .
the beginning of any path rarely indicates where it will end .
now i know the answer was within me from the very start .
i could n't see it , not until i had walked the entire way .
after all , that is the purpose of the path .
paul sirenne chapter 1 murdered !
i had a feeling something was wrong before i even opened my front door .
the three men standing on my porch , flashing their badges , did nothing to dispel my concerns .
behind them , i noticed a parked car with a rotating red light stuck on its dash .
the tallest man spoke softly .
good evening .
sorry to disturb you at this late hour .
we are looking for a man named sirenne .
paul sirenne . ''
i 'm paul sirenne .
what is this about ? ''
my name is detective harris .
this is my partner , detective stafford and this is inspector norton from interpol , who is here strictly as an observer .
i 'm afraid i have some bad news .
i was wondering if we might come in for a few minutes ? ''
worried , i stepped aside and allowed them in .
the two detectives entered , followed by the grimy looking inspector who walked in quickly , his shifty eyes darting nervously left and right .
the men accompanied me to the study , where several easy chairs served as a setting for the conversation .
detective harris pulled out a small tape recorder , placing it on the coffee table between us .
detective stafford excused himself , asking directions to the kitchen , claiming to be thirsty .
the interpol inspector remained standing , his beady eyes never leaving me .
sorry about the tape recorder .
my memory is terrible and i ca n't take field notes , not legible ones anyway .
it 's always so difficult in these cases .
i never know exactly how to proceed .
however , experience has taught me being direct is the lesser of two evils .
i 'd like you to prepare yourself for a shock , mr sirenne , a bad shock . ''
harris shifted in his chair , waiting for my reaction .
a hard knot in my stomach replaced the butterflies previously fluttering there .
i nodded .
mr sirenne , your parents have been murdered . ''
what ?
that 's impossible , detective .
i just saw my father and darlene three days ago .
they were fine , '' i protested , choking up .
i 'm terribly sorry but we are positive of our facts .
their identity was confirmed through fingerprinting .
your father , identified as paul sirenne , and his wife , identified as darlene sirenne , were killed two nights ago , shortly after midnight . ''
what happened ?
was it robbery ? ''
no , i 'm afraid it 's nothing that easy , mr sirenne .
they were murdered , then mutilated .
nothing was stolen , as far as we can tell . ''
my head was spinning .
they never did anything to anyone .
who would want to hurt them ? ''
inspector norton answered .
detective harris does n't know why , nobody does .
however , i may know who has done it .
i 'm not from here , you see .
i 'm not even supposed to be on this case .
did you know someone called the murder in ?
curious , is n't it ?
as soon as i heard about them , i knew they matched the pattern of a murderer i call the shadow killer .
by chance , i was right here , in town for a convention .
lucky for you and for the local police .
i 've been investigating the shadow killer for many years now , spending every hour of my spare time .
he is the most elusive monster i have ever encountered , responsible for at least forty five murders , most of them in europe .
i now believe he has come here , to ottawa , to kill your parents . ''
i want to see them . ''
detective harris jumped in , taking back control of the conversation .
i 'd suggest you do n't , mr sirenne .
he left a grisly scene .
it 's better if you remember your parents as you last saw them . ''
i do n't care . ''
i know how you feel , believe me , but you should give this some time .
anyway , the bodies have already been taken to our forensics lab '' norton interrupted harris again .
for all the good it will do .
the shadow killer never leaves a speck of dust behind .
you 'd know that , detective , if you 'd seen what i 've seen . ''
ignoring him , detective harris continued .
anyway , listen , how about we talk a bit more and after that , if you still want to see them , we 'll take you down to the morgue .
it 's the best i can offer right now . ''
detective stafford came back into the study with a glass of water , as norton interrupted harris yet again .
mr sirenne , i am convinced your parents were selected , chosen , by the shadow killer for some reason .
detective harris was right not to want you to see their bodies .
the shadow killer 's modus operandi is brutal .
he is inhuman when killing people .
seeing what he leaves behind is hard , even for seasoned officers .
but what he did with your parents is truly horrible . ''
i was numbed .
norton continued his rapid fire delivery , disregarding the looks from detective harris .
the killer wanted to leave a message for someone .
he staged the bodies , placing them in a way that would , uhm , look like two letters an h and an n. does that mean anything to you ? ''
my mind was a blank .
i could hardly think , let alone reason .
an h and an n ?
hn ?
no , i 'm sorry it does n't , inspector . ''
how could a human body be positioned to look like an n ?
the h seemed easy enough , but the n baffled me .
how could anyone position a body to look like a proper n ?
mr sirenne , do n't go down that road .
i know what you 're thinking .
norton , how could you blurt it out like that ?
listen to me , just let it go . ''
my mind kept working , ignoring his advice , bending an imaginary stick figure this way , that way , desperately trying to make it fit an n. tell me how he did it . ''
you do n't want to know , mr sirenne , do n't ask me that , '' harris retorted , looking increasingly ill at ease .
tell me ! ''
i 'll tell him , detective , if you 're too squeamish . ''
norton , no .
you 're just an observer here . ''
give me a break with those stupid rules .
he 's got to understand what he 's facing .
i 'm going to tell him and you 're not going to stop me . ''
norton sat next to the scowling detective harris , and looked me straight in the eyes .
he placed your father in the shape of an h by opening up his arms and legs , his body acting as the centre bar .
i believe the legs would n't take the right position so he , uhm , he cut the tendons .
that way he could place both legs in a straight line .
he cut off the head to finish the job . ''
the image burned into my brain .
norton continued with his description , his voice tightly controlled , his eyes never leaving mine .
the n was harder .
again , he used the body as the angled bar in the centre of the letter .
after removing the head , he placed the shoulders at the top and dropped the right arm as the first bar of the 'n ' .
i suppose he did n't like the short length of the arm .
the proportions probably seemed wrong to him .
no matter why , he removed the left arm from her body and placed it below the right one , clasping the hands , to make that bar as long as the legs , the other vertical bar of the n. he then placed both heads on the ground , one after each body .
i think he was trying to make sure we knew the letters represented full words , although i have no idea what those words might be .
i had hoped you would know ? ''
he stopped speaking , chewing his lower lip strongly enough to leave marks .
my head felt ready to explode .
inspector norton , detectives , perhaps we could continue this later .
i do n't think i can handle any more right now . ''
norton 's mouth softened into an insincere smile .
detective harris cut off whatever he was going to say .
we understand .
you need some time to recover from the shock .
however , we will need to meet again soon .
we 'd like you to come down to the station and make an official statement , at some point in the next few days . ''
he rose , picking up his tape recorder and handing me his card .
the interpol inspector followed him out of the study , a sullen look on his face .
before the three men reached the front door , i asked one final question .
has my father 's house been released by the police ? ''
detective stafford replied yes , sir , it has .
that was one of the reasons we came to see you .
i guess i forgot to mention it .
the forensics department finished with it a few hours ago .
see you down at the station , mr sirenne . ''
the detectives left the house , arguing with norton .
i watched them drive off , only one thought making it through the numbness .
i needed to go to my father 's house .
located in the glebe area of ottawa , it had been my birthplace and my home until i moved into my own house ten years ago .
now , i had to go there to face the end of my family .
i did n't feel ready .
while driving toward my father 's place , my rear view mirror allowed me the occasional glimpse of a familiar vehicle and its driver , norton , his companions nowhere to be seen .
perhaps he was intent on protecting me but i doubted it .
his comments had seemed disjointed , despite the circumstances .
everything had come across as insincere , as if he were following another agenda .
i resolved to ignore him for the time being .
let him do his watching .
to some , police protection might seem comforting .
to me , it felt like an irritant .
i preferred to mind my own business and for others to do the same , even in dire circumstances .
that way no one got hurt .
i almost changed my opinion when i arrived at my father 's house .
i hurried up the entrance staircase and stopped in front of the door , taking a deep breath , frozen in place .
breaking the spell and forcing myself to move , i removed the police tape with a trembling hand and entered .
the entrance hallway seemed normal but it felt wrong , too quiet .
i walked into the living room and there it was , the bloody outline of the h and the n. i was horrified by the bloodstained dots after each gruesome letter , knowing what had left those imprints .
seized by a sudden , irresistible impulse , i ran to the kitchen , filled a large bucket with hot water and picked up a heavy bristle brush .
those stains had to go !
i returned to the living room , trying to stay calm , to think nothing about what the stains represented .
i knelt down , splashed water on the floor , and began scrubbing the dark stains .
i did n't care if i scratched the wood .
at some point , i was crying , great wracking sobs , the tears streaming down my cheeks and dripping onto the bloodstains .
by the time i was done , my tears had dried , evaporated by a burning resolve , an inflexible resolution .
i did not know how , i did not know when , but i would catch the shadow killer .
he would pay for what he had done .
i returned home and collapsed on my bed , falling into a fitful sleep .
next morning , feeling somewhat more settled , i made a few phone calls .
i informed my lawyer and he began doing what was necessary to wrap up my father 's affairs .
i also went to the police station , as requested , to make a statement .
i ended up talking to detective harris again .
i made my statement .
the detective assured me i had been eliminated as a serious suspect .
he promised to let me know about any progress in the case .
he informed me norton was a loose cannon , acting pretty much as he pleased .
the local police were in charge of the investigation and norton had done nothing but slow things down .
i had not been home five minutes , when the doorbell rang .
a delivery truck was parked in front , the driver waiting at the door with a package .
who 's it from ? ''
the driver looked at his clipboard .
uhm , ah , here we are .
it was a sent by a 'mr sirenne ' , three days ago , with instructions to be delivered today . ''
i signed for it hurriedly and he handed me a thick envelope .
closing the door in the driver 's face , i ripped the package open , pulling out a large hardcover book , 'the hollow needle ' , by maurice leblanc .
the letters hn !
i opened the front cover and found a small note , readily identifying the almost illegible scrawl as my father 's handwriting son , after all this time , i have decided to send you this book for safekeeping .
despite its innocent appearance , it is the key to an incredible secret and riches beyond belief .
our family has been keeping it safe , waiting for the time when you are ready .
someone has been watching me , paul .
a man with a european accent .
i was planning to give you this book in six months , on your thirty fifth birthday , but his presence has changed all that .
there is no time to waste , son .
you must begin the hunt now .
read the book .
only by looking beyond its words will you succeed .
i know you will need help .
organize a small team but choose only your most trusted friends .
remember secrets of this nature have a tendency to attract trouble .
no matter what you do , keep your research discreet .
good luck .
call me as soon as you can .
your father .
a knock at the front door interrupted me .
i closed the book , putting it down .
it was norton .
norton with a european accent .
i did not let him in , forcing him to talk from the front porch .
he held a tape recorder in his left hand , aiming it like a gun .
ah , mr sirenne .
i hope you are calmer today , so we can finish our conversation . ''
i 'm not sure we have a conversation to finish , inspector . ''
mr sirenne , no matter what harris has told you , i am the only one who knows what we are dealing with .
the man who did this is unlike other serial killers .
he 's in a class of his own .
usually his murders have a twisted logic that means something only to him .
in the case of your parents , he departed from his long established pattern and left the clearest message .
hn .
these simple letters have convinced me he specifically chose your parents .
did you know he watched them for at least two weeks before moving in for the kill ?
he meant for this message to be seen and i am having trouble thinking of anyone else but you .
by the way , what did that truck just deliver ? ''
his voice dropped and his gaze sharpened .
he left the question hanging in the air , saying nothing else , pressuring me for an answer .
i own an antique bookstore , inspector .
the package was a book i ordered , nothing more .
as for those letters , i gave you my answer last night .
despite thinking about it from every angle i can imagine , i still have no idea what they might mean . ''
he brushed aside my answer .
look at it from my viewpoint , sirenne the shadow killer does n't play around .
either he left this message for you or he just killed your parents as a lark , leaving you to inherit all their money , which , by the by , is a considerable sum , is it not ? ''
inspector , this 'talk ' is over . ''
his demeanour changed instantly .
fine , i understand , you are still upset .
i will leave but you would do well to remember my words .
this killer has an agenda and i am convinced you are part of it , willing or not .
you had better be careful .
you really do n't want to get on his bad side .
nor on mine , for that matter .
i think he will get in touch with you and i will be there when he does . ''
i admire your tenacity , inspector but you have misjudged this situation .
i have nothing to do with the shadow killer .
my father and his wife have just been killed and i am trying to come to terms with that .
it is very difficult to know how to react , a fact you are taking advantage of .
i need some time to reflect and grieve . ''
norton turned off the cassette recorder , his eyes stopping their incessant movement and riveting on me .
he stepped closer , bringing his unshaven face within inches of mine , his voice low and threatening .
i 've been chasing this monster for fifteen years .
i 've seen the bodies he 's left behind , checked every detail , talked to every witness .
in all those years , he has never left a single clue to anyone , except for this time .
this is my best chance to catch him .
either you hired him or he left you a message .
i do n't care which it is , as long as it leads me to him .
one thing 's for sure .
you 're not going to stand in my way , playing your stupid games ! ''
he was either crazy or he was goading me .
i pulled away , distancing my face from his stinking breath .
listen , inspector , surely you recognise i want the murderer found as much as you do .
stop wasting your time with pointless accusations and get back to the real job , of catching the killer . ''
fine , mr sirenne .
have it your way but do n't think this is over , because it 's not , '' he raged , heading back down the front stairs , muttering to himself .
i did n't know if it had been right to lie but it was too late now .
keeping others in the dark was not a new thing .
i was born with a predisposition for secrecy and solitude .
my father had reinforced my secretive approach to life through frequent games of strategy and planning .
i had learned to keep my own counsel , to do things my way .
i hated it when someone told me what to do .
dealing with the law was no different .
the police had a tendency to abuse their position of power .
in any case , i did n't like norton and i did n't like the way he was shadowing me .
i would involve him when i was ready and not a minute before .
when my mother was killed in a car accident three years ago , my father and i had drawn closer .
he had later remarried , with darlene , but i had never gotten close to her .
now they were both gone , taken from me .
all i had left was to solve the mystery hidden within the pages of the book my father had sent me , his final wish .
the shadow killer was probably not far behind , looking for the same book and the clues it contained .
i returned to the study and examined the book more closely .
it was a good quality , leather bound hardcover , with nothing particularly remarkable about it , except perhaps for its excellent condition .
maurice leblanc 's hollow needle had originally been published in 1909 but this copy was printed in 1955 .
i recalled a similar book , a gift from my father on my ninth birthday .
it too had come with a cryptic message though i no longer recalled what it was .
what had my father been trying to tell me ?
this was not a new process .
nothing had ever been simple with my father .
it was always a puzzle or a mystery , never a straight answer .
'keeps your mind active and alert , ready for anything ' , he would say .
as a child , i grew to love the little challenges he frequently prepared for me .
my keen mind eagerly ferreted out every clue , every hint .
i would rarely fail in my efforts , anxious to see the smile in his eyes and feel the congratulatory pressure of his hand on my shoulder .
every now and then , he presented me with a masterpiece puzzle , every exquisite detail worked out perfectly .
he called them hunts .
once i had solved a hunt , he would invariably organize another in short order .
i could see him now , pointing the way to the start of a new trail , calling out the hunt is on , paul .
the hunt is on !
what waits for you at the end ?
you 'll never know unless you begin . '
this book had to be a clue leading to such a hunt , the last hunt i would get from my father .
i wondered where i had placed the other copy of the hollow needle .
i wanted to read the note it contained .
vaguely remembering it in my bedroom , i headed upstairs , three steps at a time , feeling a tinge of excitement despite the situation .
entering my room , i checked the small shelf above my bed , finding the book easily , to my relief .
i found my father 's original note , an old piece of vellum paper affixed to the back cover , the tape holding it in place dried out and yellowed .
dear paul on the occasion of your ninth birthday , i give you the same book my father gave to me when i was nine .
it 's a wonderful story but it is also so much more .
it is the beginning .
the beginning and the end , follow the circle , it bends .
the end and the beginning , the answer in the connecting .
your father ps a real story ends near etretat lost until paul infers new ideas subtly you ought understand responsibility , necessarily after moiling etretat when i read the note at age nine , i had not grasped my father 's true intent .
today , it was obvious he was signalling the start of a hunt .
something was going on in the town of etretat and it was connected with this book .
it was time to read the hollow needle again , with fresh eyes and new purpose .
i returned to the study , placing the two copies next to each other on the coffee table .
they were virtually identical .
i chose one at random , sat back in the recliner , and re discovered leblanc 's finest novel .
it was a story full of historical mystery and treasure , with no less than the venerable sherlock holmes making an appearance .
filled with charm , respect and a proper code of ethics , ensconcing the reader in another era , when even villains had morals .
its main character was a man named arsene lupin , developed by leblanc , as a french counterpart to the immensely popular sherlock holmes in britain .
lupin , a gentleman thief , was a likeable rogue , able to steal your heart and your paintings at the same time .
he was possessed of the same clarity of thinking as his british alter ego , making him a perfect adversary for holmes .
at the story 's core was a fantastic concept .
in france , off the chalk cliffs of the small town of etretat , a hundred metre pillar of rock projected mightily from the salt waters of the english channel .
according to leblanc , the needle of rock was hollow , a secret held for centuries by the kings and queens of france .
used as a stronghold and a repository for treasure , knowledge of its existence had been lost during the upheaval of the french revolution .
of course , gentleman thief arsene lupin rediscovered it and used it as his stronghold .
access to it was found near the fort of frefosse , located on top of the southern chalk cliff overlooking etretat .
at the bottom of one page in the book , i noticed a note from the editors 'a few years after this book was originally released to the public , the army was commissioned to alter the fort because of undue attention since the book 's publication . '
it was all very convincing .
so convincing i found myself half believing the needle was truly hollow .
i got up from the recliner and went to my desk , turning the computer on .
i called up a search engine on the internet , entering the name 'etretat ' .
i was surprised to find it was a real place and even found several pictures of the needle .
encouraged , i tried other search queries , such as 'treasure ' , 'hollow ' , etc .
i landed in a website with the following statement 'etretat , a popular tourist destination , often attracts treasure hunters looking for the famous entrance to the hollow needle .
well folks , the needle is indeed there , however it is , without a doubt , completely solid . '
i had hit a brick wall but this was not my first hunt .
there were always obstacles and pitfalls along the way .
treasure was an incredibly elusive prey , far rarer than one would think .
many of them had already been found or plundered , while others had been proven to be wild goose chases , such as the oak island mystery .
treasure was incidental .
i wanted to solve my father 's last hunt and find the shadow killer .
one thing was certain whatever this hollow needle mystery might be , it was not about a hollow needle !
i was moving at great speed .
i saw landscape flying by , forests , fields , tilled land , then more woods .
what was i doing here ?
where was i ?
with sudden clarity , i knew i was dreaming though this was no ordinary dream .
i had no control over movement or direction , flying a few hundred feet above a realistic landscape .
i could not perceive my body .
the landscape changed .
i was now moving past farms and roads , with the odd house here and there .
i heard the sound of waves crashing somewhere ahead .
i approached a cliff with a number of strangely shaped patches of grass .
a golf course .
i slowed down until i was hovering over a big building .
just beyond it , a couple was walking along a path , their arms linked together .
they were approaching a squat , cement structure , an old bunker .
an intense yellowish light was emanating from its every opening .
for a brief moment , the man looked up , his face illuminated by the bright glow , before turning back towards the bunker opening , walking in with the black haired woman .
he had looked like me !
the surf was crashing heavily below .
i flew towards the edge of the cliff , almost colliding with it before coming to a full stop .
without any warning , i entered into a vertiginous descent towards the water below .
this felt more like falling than flying .
panic gripped me , my eyes locked on the rapidly approaching water .
i was going to hit hard !
i woke with a start , my arms and legs flailing , screaming out , drenched in sweat .
it took almost fifteen minutes to slow my heartbeat and calm my nerves .
i had fallen asleep in the recliner after reading the hollow needle .
i could neither figure out what had brought on the vivid dream , which still disturbed me with its odd intensity , nor explain what it could possibly mean .
the man entering the bunker how could he be me ?
who was the woman with him ?
i was baffled .
a thought intruded , about the editor 's comment in leblanc 's book .
why did the army change the fort , if the story about the hollow needle was false ?
why even place such a comment in the book ?
by now , i was sitting up in the recliner , any chance for sleep gone .
i would n't be able to rest until i had some sort of answer .
sighing , i went back to my computer and typed 'fort of frefosse ' into the search engine .
a single photo of a tattered postcard showing a blurry picture of the fort , circa 1900 , came up .
that was it .
trying different search engines , i came across another picture , dated november 28 1911 , showing several people posing in an angle similar to the postcard .
the fort 's outline was radically different , the main structure completely destroyed , leaving a deep pit surrounded by a jumble of broken stones .
all that remained of the fort were a few crumbling walls .
the photo dovetailed nicely with the editor 's note in the hollow needle but was it related to my father 's hunt ?
i found an online reference to leblanc 's villa in etretat .
originally purchased by an estate , it was later taken over by leblanc 's granddaughter , victoire .
she had renovated it into a bed and breakfast , themed around the hollow needle mystery .
still searching , i located an internet site with something of substance .
maintained by a french caver , most of the site was about various cave systems but one page had a summary of a most interesting book the secret of the kings of france or the true identity of arsene lupin by valere catogan etretat is a small , nondescript town situated on the coast of the ancient gaulish territory .
what could have attracted emperors , kings and queens to this tiny village , lost in a small valley , nestled between two of the tallest chalk cliffs in the country ?
historically , etretat was previously known as esttretat , as referenced in the 1628 gerard mercator atlas .
however , if you examine the map of the king 's navy 1534 , maritime archives , you will read 'ici est tr .
etat ' translation here is tr .
state could 'tr . '
stand for treasure ?
treasure of the state ?
here are a few facts , relating to etretat 's mystery 1 in 1300 , during the hundred year war , henry the fifth landed in normandy with his troops somewhere on the gaul coast , very likely the site of etretat .
how did henry reach the top of the precipitous cliffs with his troops without anyone witnessing the invasion ?
2 alexander dumas ' novel of the three musketeers was based on historical facts the duke of buckingham fell in love with anne d'autriche and he received the famous pearl necklace from her .
how did he evade the vigilance of the cardinal de richelieu and enter several times into france , despite increased patrols along the coast ?
3 in 1670 , a secret treaty was signed by charles the second and louis the fourteenth , negotiated by the duchess of orleans .
how did she leave france to reach england ?
where did jacques the second , escaping from guillaume d'orange in 1688 , land on the normandy coast ?
4 napoleon bonaparte ordered plans to be drawn for the construction of a port of war in etretat .
this project was brought to a standstill by the insistence of talleyrand .
fouchet noted talleyrand never concerned himself with naval affairs .
prior to his unexplained naval concern , talleyrand received a visit from the baron of bellevert , later declared an english spy .
for years , talleyrand did everything possible to distance napoleon and his engineers from this small beach .
5 why , after the 1830 , 1848 and 1870 revolutions , did the de throned kings head for the roads leading to etretat , instead of others , such as those towards calais , or boulogne ?
could these events be connected to the secret held within etretat 's cliffs ?
what could this little town be hiding ?
certainly not a hollow needle , as maurice leblanc suggested in his arsene lupin story .
etretat 's great secret was a camouflaged docking point , hidden below the massive cliffs , invisible from above and inaccessible on foot .
one could only reach the hidden dock thanks to a tunnel that pierced the cliff itself .
this tunnel made it possible to leave france for england discreetly , or vice versa .
who dug these tunnels ?
no matter their origins , the elite kept the secret of the kings of france during many long centuries .
during the early part of the nineteenth century , they took new precautions to ensure silence was maintained .
rich families purchased key neighbouring properties .
a tunnel , which once connected the hidden docks to a small valley , was lengthened to reach into etretat 's donjon , then later , to the villa le petit val and finally , to the villa des oeuillets , owned by mr beaugrand , jeweller for the queen .
today , this secret is no more .
some tunnels were rediscovered by local fishermen but the majority no longer exist .
access to the eight hundred metre long passageway is completely forbidden .
the ancient dock was eroded long ago by the tide and the collapsing cliffs have buried its few remains .
the villa des roches tunnel has been walled up , although one can still see its entrance point to the left of the stairs leading up the amont cliff .
etretat has not yet revealed all its knowledge .
during the occupation , the germans made many discoveries .
unfortunately , all such documents , housed in the city of havre , were destroyed at the end of the war during an allied bombing run .
this text is a partial summary of a document written by valere catogan , a nom de plume used by raymond lindon , who researched the history of etretat , aided by maurice leblanc .
end of document .
'the secret of the kings of france ' was much more plausible than a supposed hollow needle .
the author , raymond lindon , had sought to hide his identity by writing under a pseudonym .
i could not help but wonder why .
in addition , the article mentioned leblanc had helped lindon with the book .
leblanc was always involved .
his story of the hollow needle , while admittedly fictitious , seemed intended to attract attention to etretat .
in my case , it had succeeded .
another fact struck me it was now 5 00am and i was exhausted .
i went to bed , my head brimming over with tunnels , treasures , and secrets .
the next few days were very busy .
i took an indefinite leave of absence from my business , a successful antique bookstore owned by the family for generations , leaving it in the capable hands of my manager .
the police had released my father 's remains and i struggled through the funeral arrangements and the reading of the will .
i was the only one present .
norton had been right about one thing my parents had left me a veritable fortune , more than fifty million dollars .
i had not known they had such wealth .
it had never been apparent in our daily life .
i almost felt betrayed .
where had these riches come from ?
was it from my grandfather ?
my great grandfather ?
normally , when i had such questions , i would turn to my father for help .
i was now forever deprived of his calm advice .
yet , he was not completely gone .
i could still imagine his voice 'you wo n't solve anything in that state , son .
you have to calm down , get a bit of perspective on things .
take some time and think things through . '
i found solace in following his advice , allowing my anger and sadness , to settle .
logic and planning slowly took their place .
i had no confidence either norton or the police would find the killer , or solve the deeper mysteries surrounding the case .
i also had to be realistic .
i was no detective .
despite my facility in finding connections , i had no experience in these worldly matters .
i had never been the physical type , always more cerebral in my pursuits and shunning public activities .
i might be up to the task given time but time was exactly what i did not have .
it could be no coincidence my father sent the book before being killed .
he was being watched and had to act .
i faced a crucial choice keep the book safe and do nothing , or take up the hunt .
if i did nothing , i allowed the death of my father and darlene to go un avenged .
i would be a sitting duck , waiting for the killer to decide my fate .
there was really no choice .
i had to solve the mystery before the killer .
unfortunately , i was playing catch up .
i needed help .
my father had known i would not have time to cover all the bases .
he suggested i assemble a team .
sharing the secret was risky but necessary .
thanks to my father 's will , i now had ample resources .
the inheritance money implied something else the treasure had to be something else than mere wealth .
chapter 2 assembling the team after much deliberation , i chose three of my closest friends , jonathan briar , fabian coulter and liam o'flanahan , contacting them to arrange a preliminary meeting .
a date was set for the day after the funeral .
on that day , i woke at 8 00am , showered , placed both hollow needle copies in my satchel , and headed out on foot to the top nut , a small coffee bar .
inspector norton was still following me in his car and i evaded him by walking through several mini malls in quick succession .
ducking into the coffee shop , i stood in the doorway for a moment , looking around for my friends .
hey , paul , we 're over here ! ''
it was fabian coulter .
i had selected him for his amazing skills with everything computer .
he was a world class hacker who had earned his repute in the highest circles .
as a computer security consultant for the government , there was little he could not access .
this thin , pasty thirty year old , a perpetual night owl , was my closest friend .
we had known each other for more than twenty years and i trusted him with my life .
his enthusiasm , wiry strength , and keen intellect would serve well in our search .
seated next to him was jonathan briar .
tall , fit , and bald , the head of the history department at the university of ottawa was an expert on ancient history .
he had been my unofficial mentor for the past ten years .
it was partly thanks to him the dead sea scroll deception had been uncovered .
his specialty , however , was roman history .
we had worked together many times before .
our most recent foray had been about a year ago , focusing on the legend of the san saba silver mines .
i had always been impressed by briar 's ability to quickly collate masses of research into pertinent information .
despite being in his mid fifties , he was an energetic man , neither afraid of confrontation , nor of hard work .
finally , there was liam o'flanahan .
short and overweight , o'flanahan was a publisher of unusual books and a self admitted expert on mysteries , conspiracies and the bizarre .
he was the one who had convinced me to waste two years of my life , and no small sum of money , on the oak island mystery , his personal obsession .
this irish , red haired man , abrasive and irritating , would never rest until answers were found .
i knew i could trust him .
we had investigated mysteries before , spending evenings engaged in conversation about lost treasure and forgotten history .
we were amateurs to be sure but , as a team , there would be little we could not figure out .
how was the funeral yesterday ? ''
asked briar i 'm so sorry i could not attend . ''
i sat down as bridget , the waitress , brought me a cup of coffee .
it went as well as it could have .
i was emotional when i got home .
it ended up being a pretty rough night .
anyway , i 'm glad you all decided to come .
you may not believe this but i think my father sent me a lead to another hunt just before he was murdered . ''
is the hunt connected to his death ? ''
o'flanahan asked , already sniffing a possible conspiracy .
they all knew about my father 's hunts .
briar had even accompanied me on several occasions .
he had been impressed at the twists and turns required to solve the devious puzzles .
yes it is .
gentlemen , i called you here because i need your help .
the shadow killer , murdered my father and his wife .
according to norton , an interpol inspector , this monster did it to send a message the letters h and n. '' my mind flashed briefly on the bloody scene in my parent 's house .
i banished the image .
in all confidence , i must admit something when questioned by norton , i held back a key piece of evidence .
i would like to share that evidence with the three of you .
i can only do it if you agree to join me in a hunt which could prove both dangerous and lucrative .
do n't make this decision lightly .
the shadow killer involved and he is already on the job .
i doubt he would hesitate to murder anyone who stood in his way .
while making your decision , keep two facts in mind .
one , i am convinced i can not succeed without your help , and two , i am willing to pay you each a hundred thousand dollars if you agree . ''
coulter was the first to take the bait .
paul , you do n't even have to offer a single penny .
i 'd help you for nothing but if you 're offering the money anyway , i wo n't object too strenuously . ''
o'flanahan exploded into a loud guffaw .
that 's the spirit , coulter .
as for me , i 'm all in .
i mean , how can i not be ?
i live for conspiracies and you 're giving me a hundred thousand bucks to get in on the ground floor plus it 's dangerous .
who could resist that ?
sounds like a hoot . ''
considerably more restrained , briar was the last one to speak .
he was independently wealthy , so money would not be a serious enticement .
paul , your offer certainly comes as a surprise , especially so soon after the double murder .
i admire your courage and determination .
consider me in .
as for your money , keep it !
we 'll use it in your father 's hunt .
i have no need of it .
however , you now have us all exceedingly curious .
it is time to reveal what you held back from norton and why . ''
i pulled out my father 's copy of the hollow needle , along with the note .
this note is what prevented me from revealing everything to norton .
the authorities would only slow things down and i am convinced time is of the essence .
my father 's murder was the starting gun .
we must hurry if we are to have the slightest chance of wrestling the prize from the killer . ''
you think this shadow killer knows about the hollow needle ? ''
asked a curious briar .
i do .
norton said leaving clues is out of character for the killer .
what made him do it then ?
why did my father send me the book shortly before being murdered ?
he had to be trying to prevent the killer from getting it . ''
i see what you 're getting at .
the killer has got to know something and not just about that book .
he knows something about the secret your dad was talking about , '' o'flanahan added excitedly .
and my father outsmarted him , mailing the book before the killer could find it .
perhaps sending it is the very thing that got him murdered .
we are dealing with a ruthless man , one who holds many more cards than we do . ''
well , what are we wasting time for , then ?
let 's get on with some facts , '' prodded an incensed o'flanahan .
let 's start with this the book he sent me is , in fact , an exact duplicate of another he gave me when i was nine years old .
this was my not my father 's last hunt , but rather , his original one . ''
removing the second copy from my satchel , i dropped it on top of the first .
o'flanahan picked them up , a keen interest in his eyes .
i grew to know your father quite well over ten years , '' briar said .
he was always purposeful and deliberate in his actions .
what could he possibly have been trying to teach you , back then , when you were so young ? ''
i 'm not sure it 's like that .
i do n't think he intended for me to start on this particular hunt , at least not until the time was right .
the second copy was intended to spur me to remember the first .
after re reading the book and prodded by a curious little comment from the editor , i was led to an internet page suggesting etretat may be at the centre of a forgotten historical mystery .
as i see it now , all previous hunts were preparing me for this original hunt . ''
are you sure you 're not reading more into this than is really there ?
we 've all done that before , '' coulter asked , playing the devil 's advocate .
i am convinced this is a real trail and i think we should follow it .
i need you to help me confirm i 'm not deluding myself . ''
what do you want us to do , paul ? ''
coulter responded .
this warrants a little more armchair detective work , despite the pressure of time .
i was wondering if you would each spend a couple of days doing individual research and we could compare notes on thursday evening . ''
you know i live to investigate forgotten history , '' briar said my skills could be of some use .
i will search out what information i can about that area of france .
did you perhaps bring any pictures of the fort you mentioned ? ''
i fished for the before and after pictures .
they had the desired effect .
the fort is completely destroyed in this later picture .
who did that and why ? ''
questioned coulter .
it certainly is strange , '' agreed o'flanahan .
the extent of the damage suggests an explosion .
what else would cause that kind of destruction ? ''
do n't forget about the editor 's note .
it states the army was involved .
what 's that about ? ''
i added .
i might be able to help with that .
most cities have converted their documents to electronic format .
i can hack into those sites in my sleep .
i 'll see what i can turn up .
might clear this whole thing up .
might be nothing , '' suggested coulter .
might be something , though , '' interjected o'flanahan .
i 'll go through my contacts and my files as well .
i 've never heard about this tunnel stuff .
i might find something that will help . ''
my friends got up , eager to begin their research .
i emptied my coffee cup , ordering a refill , feeling a bittersweet excitement at the thought of a new hunt , a gift my father had given me twenty five years ago .
so thursday evening then ?
i 'll arrange for supper and we can review our findings . ''
they nodded , each taking the time to offer some well meant condolences before leaving .
somehow , they were n't necessary .
my father was right here next to me .
i sat back down , drank my coffee , and spent a few minutes with him in silence .
chapter 3 a decision is reached i ordered a few pizzas as my friends seated themselves around the dining room table .
i reflected on how different we were from each other .
coulter was a generally quiet man .
o'flanahan was loud , obnoxious , and out of shape .
finally , briar , with his ageless face , taller than average , was a garrulous man who viewed everyone as a student .
as for me , at thirty five and slightly overweight , i was an average man whose only quality was a keen mind .
they appeared anxious to share the material they had brought .
i had set up a dry erase board on an easel in a corner of the dining room .
first , i want to say thank you for coming in through the back . ''
you kidding ?
outsmarting that interpol cop was the most fun i 've had this week , '' o'flanahan commented .
coulter snickered in agreement .
the less attention from him the better .
anyway , from the look of those folders , it seems each of you have found some information .
where should we start ? ''
how about the origins of the fort ?
after all , that 's what started this whole thing , '' suggested briar .
when no objection came , he cleared his throat and began a scholarly presentation .
as you might know , historically , etretat was primarily a fishing village .
during the 18th century , an oyster bed was added at the queen 's request .
long before all that , etretat was a natural port .
while the water near the shore is too shallow to allow ships to moor today , there were once deep trenches in the marine floor , allowing ships to anchor within the safe confines of the cove .
these trenches , most of which have filled up with rubble over the centuries , extended right under the current location of etretat .
under etretat 's famous beach are the remnants of a roman shipyard . ''
briar went to the dry erase board and , picking up a black marker , drew an outline of etretat 's beachfront , a rough semi circular shape with a huge cliff on each side .
before briar could continue his discourse , coulter had a comment to make .
the cliffs you 've drawn do n't extend into the sea sufficiently to protect ships of any significant size . ''
briar smiled briefly .
while that may be true today , it is important to note the area 's geology .
those cliffs are composed primarily of chalk .
turonian chalk , with cenomanian protrusions , to be precise .
of more importance is the average erosion rate of chalk cliffs , which is approximately twenty centimetres per year .
geologically speaking , that 's pretty fast .
romans occupied this area perhaps as early as fifty ad .
a quick calculation informs us the cliffs advanced into the channel almost four hundred metres further back then .
that would have provided significant protection for a very large fleet indeed . ''
drawing another map , briar connected a line from etretat to an area near the seine river .
i located a reference to an ancient roman road linking etretat and lillebonne , or juliobonna , to the romans .
lillebonne was an active trading town .
for some reason , the romans felt it was worthwhile to build a road between these two towns .
today , there 's nothing left except for a few remnants of the road and some roman ruins on the north side of town . ''
briar had barely sat down when o'flanahan stood , a wide smile on his face .
he moved to the easel and started pacing back and forth .
that was real interesting but i think you missed the point , briar .
sure we 're looking to get some history but what we 're really looking for is treasure !
and i think i found it .
let 's forget all that roman nonsense and instead , focus on king francis the first , who took over the fort , in the early 1500 's .
he renovated it and installed at least one cannon , which is still on display at the museum of rouen .
he used the fort to protect the port but also , i suspect , to extort passage fees from ships sailing within reach of his cannons . ''
the doorbell rang , interrupting o'flanahan 's discourse .
pizza was received , the driver was paid , and drinks were served .
we found ourselves back at the table , munching in time with o'flanahan 's speech .
francis the first was the original renaissance monarch .
he was well educated , interested in culture , architecture , and artists , which is mainly what he spent his money on , apart from his incessant wars .
francis even convinced da vinci to retire to france .
imagine da vinci roaming the fort of frefosse .
think of what that could mean ! ''
he said , his eyes far away .
an exaggerated cough from briar snapped him back to reality .
uhm , yes , anyway , another area of interest was exploration .
francis funded jacques cartier on at least three expeditions to canada , to search for gold and diamonds .
cartier 's first voyage was in 1534 . ''
by now , he was speaking loudly .
i had started feeling uneasy as soon as he mentioned cartier , the name sparking a distant memory .
o'flanahan was up to something .
he continued , increasing the volume of his voice even more on monday , sirenne referred to an internet page involving tunnels .
looking it up , i found an interesting mention of etretat in 1534 , on the ancient 'king 's maritime map ' .
the king it refers to can only be francis the first .
a coincidence ?
i think not , if you note the map was dated the same year as cartier 's first expedition .
i believe cartier , on his first trip to canada , did find treasure , contrary to recorded history . ''
incensed , i stood up , shoving my chair back with a screech .
do n't you dare , o'flanahan . ''
he ignored me completely , increasing the volume by several decibels .
found in canada , cartier brought treasure back and hid it in the fort of frefosse .
but , you ask , what treasure did he bring back ?
is n't it obvious ? ''
stop , do n't say it , '' i shouted , getting angrier by the second .
he brought back the oak island treasure , that 's what ! ''
he concluded , screaming at the top of his lungs .
o'flanahan had done it again .
this time , he had linked my father 's hunt to his time wasting oak island treasure .
how dare he ?
briar and coulter were laughing at me , so i sat back down , still glaring at him .
all right , o'flanahan , although i 'm sure you did that just to bother me , go ahead and try to logically justify this nonsense ! ''
i said through clenched teeth .
come on , sirenne , take it easy .
we 're just talking here .
i know you think the oak island treasure is fictitious but it makes sense this time .
listen to the facts , no nonsense here , just what we know about oak island .
something went on there , even you have to admit that .
the 'money pit ' , as they called it , was covered with large heavy flagstones .
there were heavy oak platforms every three meters , to a depth of nearly thirty six metres .
on different levels , they found charcoal , putty , coconut fibre .
they found an inscribed stone , complete with cryptic clue .
most importantly , let 's not forget how the designers rebuilt two entire beaches .
using flat rocks , eel grass and coconut fibre , they successfully hid two flood tunnels , with five feeder drains , ensuring flooding . ''
but no treasure was ever found .
you know that , o'flanahan , '' i said .
in this case , i think that 's a good point .
look , guys , no one knows who put it there or when but it was there at some point and somebody went through a whole lot of effort making sure it stayed hidden .
maybe it was used to store gold intended to pay indians and soldiers garrisoned in quebec and montreal , although some people insist the oak island was connected to templar treasure .
your guess is as good as mine .
officially , cartier never found anything but what if he arrived at oak island and saw the gold being hidden ?
what if he sneaked in and stole the treasure ?
would he admit to it ?
who would he tell ?
one thing is for sure francis financed a second trip , so the news from the first ca n't have been all bad .
coulter nodded .
you make some sense but it 's just theory .
little proof there , i 'm afraid .
we ca n't forget the basic rules of treasure hunting .
until we have enough solid facts , our conjectures will never amount to more than a thursday night chat .
i , on the other hand , unlike the two of you , came armed with real facts , pertinent to the changes in the fort of frefosse ! ''
our ears perked up .
coulter was never one to exaggerate .
as i said during our prior meeting , i have easy access to restricted documents .
this allowed me to delve right into etretat 's records .
i downloaded everything i could find from 1900 to 1920 .
after a sleepless night poring over old documents , i came up with this . ''
he held up an official looking piece of paper .
this , gentlemen , is an accident report , dated november 13 , 1911 .
it identifies a fellow named old man vallin , if you can believe that .
he had offered to carry out some minor road repairs to facilitate militia travel .
there is reference to the poor character of old man vallin and to his reputation for drunkenness .
on october 26 1911 , vallin acquired several sticks of dynamite , purportedly to remove a boulder on one of these roads .
he also purchased several bottles of wine for the trip .
he took a wrong turn , ending on the trail to the fort of frefosse .
by the time he arrived at the fort , he was hopelessly lost and drunk .
mistaking a dynamite stick for a candle , he nearly blew himself up .
in a state of panic , he tossed all the sticks over the fort 's walls .
the resulting explosion destroyed the old fort .
the town was in a furor .
i found reference to a court summons for the unfortunate vallin .
strangely , the case never went to trial .
vallin was declared innocent of wrongdoing and the incident labelled an accident .
the land on which the fort stood was sold within days and a golf course opened on the site , '' coulter put the sheet down , pulling another from his folder .
i might have been satisfied with that , if it were n't for this document .
it shows various outstanding taxes in etretat in mid 1911 .
here , you will note old man vallin 's large tax debt .
so large in fact , it was likely vallin 's home and land would be repossessed by the town .
not a rich man , our vallin .
yet , on nov 20 1911 , just a few days after the explosion , vallin paid his taxes in full , with cash , according to the notes in the ledger .
where did all this money come from ?
who gave it to him and for what ?
too many questions and too many coincidences , '' coulter concluded , tossing the second sheet on the table .
we broke into chaotic conversation .
even if we tried to ascribe innocent explanations to these facts , their number was growing beyond what coincidence could easily allow .
eventually my friends quieted down .
it was now my turn to talk .
retrieving the two copies of the hollow needle from a nearby shelf , i placed them in the centre of the table .
i thought i would go at this from a different direction .
while the mystery about etretat and its fort was utterly fascinating , i found myself more captivated by these two identical books .
perhaps a natural inclination , being in the book business .
another factor influenced me the books were here , in my hands , while etretat was not .
the first oddity i noted was this ... '' i opened both books to the page opposite the list of chapters , containing the printing history .
these books , printed in 1955 , are from a limited edition and are individually numbered .
the original copy , the one my father gave me when i was nine , is stamped number one in a limited printing of four and one , whatever that means . ''
could it mean five ? ''
asked o'flanahan .
after all four and one makes five , does n't it ? ''
briar jumped in .
why say it that way then ?
surely it means something less obvious than that . ''
o'flanahan barked a reply .
tell me what it means then ? ''
come on , guys , let paul finish what he was saying , '' interjected coulter in a low voice .
o'flanahan looked sheepish for a moment , then smiled and sat back in his chair .
i took this as my cue .
if you examine the copy my father sent before his murder , you will note it is also number one in a limited printing of four and one .
by logical conclusion , one of these books must be a counterfeit copy .
even stranger , they are both signed by maurice leblanc , apparently genuine signatures , yet leblanc died in 1939 , well before these books were printed . ''
i paused for a second , my audience spellbound .
i examined both for the slightest material difference .
the paper , the ink , the typeset , the font , absolutely everything was identical and all in perfect condition .
if one was a counterfeit copy , it had to be the best work i had ever seen .
i kept returning to the note from my father at the back of the original book .
the note and , more specifically , the dried out tape keeping it in place .
once applied , tape will almost invariably damage a book .
over time , the glue can stain the book , or stick to the pages , as you can see here .
my father simply would not do this .
not ever .
so why did he do it here ? ''
coulter was the first to suggest a possibility to call attention to it !
he wanted you to wonder about it . ''
did you find out anything else ? ''
o'flanahan jumped in .
actually , i waited for the three of you , so we could discover together what my father was trying to tell me .
the trail is right here .
what should we do ? ''
take the note and the tape off and look at everything carefully .
that 's my suggestion , '' o'flanahan answered .
nods from the others carried the motion .
using a pair of fine tweezers , i tightly pinched the note and tape together then lifted .
it came off easily , with a slight zipping noise , the dried glue flaking off the page , its adherence long gone .
pulling out a magnifying glass , i bent over the book and scrutinized the cover .
i saw stitches in the leather but some looked odd .
i realised what looked like stitches , across an area of about eight centimetres , were in fact white ink drawn to look like stitches .
there is a hidden pocket here . ''
what ?
are you sure ? ''
asked briar , looking stunned .
yes .
watch . ''
lifting the revealed flap with the tweezers , i peered inside , seeing a folded piece of paper .
reaching in , i pulled it out , unfolding it carefully .
paul if you have found this note , you have discovered the great hunt .
my father taught me the way of the hunt , and gave me specific instructions to teach you .
you in turn will teach your son , preparing him .
he is the one who must solve the great hunt mystery .
it will be his duty to regain our lost heritage .
i know part of the trail to our past is in this book .
there 's something about the fort of frefosse , i am sure of it .
good luck , paul .
prepare your son .
he must regain what our family has lost .
ps a real story ends near etretat , lost until paul infers new ideas subtly .
you ought understand responsibility , necessarily after moiling etretat .
paul sirenne there 's a problem with that note .
it 's not my father 's writing . ''
do you think it 's a fake ? ''
o'flanahan asked .
no , that 's not what i meant .
it 's my grandfather 's writing . ''
are you telling me your grandfather was also named paul sirenne , like your father and you after him ?
is n't that odd ? ''
observed o'flanahan .
i nodded in agreement .
it was very odd .
my father had never explained it satisfactorily , even though i had asked him on several occasions .
if this note was written by your grandfather to your father , then the note is referring to you .
the great hunt was intended to be your task , '' noted briar .
would n't that date the great hunt back to the time of the story in the hollow needle ? ''
coulter asked excitedly .
yes , it would , '' i answered .
i am getting overwhelmed .
let 's have a coffee break . ''
excellent idea , '' coulter said without hesitation .
perfect timing ! ''
coulter followed me into the kitchen , while briar and o'flanahan stayed in the dining room , looking over the files .
within moments , they were arguing about something .
what was it with those two ?
meanwhile , i was having problems dealing with the note .
nothing was accidental about any of this !
my father had always known i was meant to begin this hunt .
this was a decades long plan , inherited from father to son , waiting for me to undertake the great hunt .
by luck or design , he had sent me the book and the shadow killer 's attempt to rob my heritage had failed .
briar ran into the kitchen , holding a sheaf of papers .
coulter , where did you get these ? ''
those ?
did n't i tell you ?
i guess i forgot .
when i was searching for financial details , i did a random search and got some francis the first financial records dated from 1525 onward .
there were several folders there , along with the financial stuff , so i downloaded all of them .
i printed some random sections to bring here . ''
you know how much i love these old documents .
i found a sheet dated 1530 .
it 's a letter from the college de france 's administrator , guillaume bude , addressed to francis the first .
it summarizes a search for documents about the fort of frefosse and refers to plans or drawings of some sort , but they are not with the page .
do you have more of this file ?
we might be able to get an architectural drawing of the fort from back then , '' briar asked , his breathing shallow and rapid .
yes , there is more to the folder .
i brought my laptop , so we could check it out , '' assured coulter .
excited , we headed to the dining table only to realize coulter still peered at us from the kitchen , a determined look on his face .
after the coffee is done , of course ! ''
we finally found ourselves standing around his laptop , while he punched a few keys and called up the folder .
after a moment or two , a frustrated coulter muttered .
it 's not there .
i ca n't find it but i think it was there at some point . ''
the file coulter had printed was numbered 'f1 3 1530 73 ' and the following file was 'f1 3 1530 75 ' .
there was a file missing !
coulter called up the folder index .
it says here 'f1 3 1530 74 ' was not in the folder when the files were scanned into computer .
it was assumed lost . ''
can you search for it in other folders ?
maybe it was misfiled , '' suggested o'flanahan .
coulter 's fingers flew over the keyboard .
a page of results popped up .
with four of us looking , few details were likely to be missed .
just after coulter 's second cup of coffee , we found it , filed in a folder containing castle drawings and engineering plans .
if you wanted to hide this document , there could not be a better place than this .
it actually looks as if it belongs here .
someone placed this here intentionally , '' o'flanahan said .
why did n't they simply steal it ? ''
briar asked .
perhaps they were unable to .
the physical documents were housed in the royal library .
not an easy place to steal documents .
it would have been much simpler to misfile them deliberately , '' o'flanahan answered .
we connected the laptop to my network and soon had a page printing .
i placed it on the table , sweeping the rest of the papers out of the way .
o'flanahan seized the paper , pulling it close to his face .
a strange tremor ran through his body , the hand holding the paper flopped to his side , and he collapsed backwards into his chair .
i i 've seen those before , '' he stuttered , gasping for breath .
suddenly , he jumped up , full of energy and screamed at the top of his lungs i 've seen those before ha ha ! ''
he did a weird little jig , looking utterly ridiculous , and then ran frenetically to his coat , pulling out an old tattered paperback from a side pocket .
the oak island mystery !
no no no , '' i shouted despite myself .
o'flanahan hurried back , slipped on a loose area rug and almost fell , but caught himself and kept going , limping a little while swearing under his breath .
he slammed the book on the table , opening it to the page showing the inscription found on the tablet from the money pit .
there ! ''
he said .
tell me those are n't the same symbols , '' he challenged .
the symbols from the dungeon layout were similar to those on the tablet from oak island .
for a moment , it seemed as if o'flanahan had found a real link .
luckily , i had spent a fair bit of time on that 'mystery ' as well hold your horses , o'flanahan .
the stone with the original inscription was lost in the early 1900 's .
you know that .
the tablet inscription as we know it today , was the work of a company trying to sell shares in their newly registered oak island mining company .
using a very simple transposition of symbols with english letters , the cipher was easily translated to the phrase 'forty feet below two million pounds are buried ' .
that inscription is a fake ! ''
o'flanahan looked discomfited , which , admittedly , made me feel better , but his discomfort only lasted for a few moments .
you 're right , of course .
i forgot that part in my excitement .
but , if it 's a fake , how come the symbols are on those frefosse plans ? ''
he rallied back .
briar , ever the professor , pounced on that one .
when you think about it , the symbols in that inscription are not particularly rare .
circles , rectangles and triangles are common .
the romans certainly used them , as did the french .
perhaps it is just coincidence ? ''
we were in danger of veering off track .
i think it 's time to summarize what we have and decide our next move .
this evening has been very productive , much more than we had any right to expect .
so , where should we start ? ''
briar jumped in immediately .
we start with the geological information .
leblanc 's book implies the needle of etretat is hollow , a statement we know to be false .
however , the premise is generally accurate .
a crumbly material at best , chalk is easily eroded by the elements , waves and tidal currents .
it is prone to cave formation , in particular , vertical pipes , following along cracks or weaknesses .
these cracks often widen into large caves , such as the beachy head system , which is more than four hundred metres in length .
therefore , leblanc 's theory in the hollow needle is essentially plausible , if not factual .
those cliffs are like swiss cheese .
if you ask me , i would stake my reputation on the probability of secret tunnels and caves being involved , despite that the needle is solid .
the port of etretat was both a boon and a danger .
enemy ships could approach as easily as local ships .
the romans built a road to etretat to simplify access to the shipyard .
they erected a fort to protect themselves from pirates .
later , because of the fall of the roman empire , activity ended and all of this was somehow lost to history .
fishermen took over the area and life went on .
the next step is up to you , o'flanahan . ''
although i did get a wee bit carried away with the oak island connection , there are still some powerful facts to consider .
the fort fell into ruin over the centuries .
it attracted the attention of francis the first in 1530 , or perhaps even earlier .
possibly , it has something to do with the mysterious tunnels mentioned in lindon 's book .
at some point before 1530 , francis commissioned a rebuild of the fort .
perhaps it was to protect the coast but it could have been the presence of those tunnels that motivated francis to rebuild .
he sent jacques cartier to canada , in search of gold and treasure .
possibly , he returned with more than history says he did . ''
fabian coulter continued the review the fact is francis rebuilt the fort and used it often .
that 's it .
the fort dropped from sight until the early 1900 's when it caught leblanc 's attention and was featured in his famous story .
soon after that , old man vallin blew it up , at the request of someone whose identity remains unknown . ''
i just want to add a few points .
the first is we have barely touched the surface about this tunnel business .
the second point is leblanc .
he is at the centre of all this .
he found etretat as a young man and kept coming back .
he rented a summerhouse there and later bought it .
it is certain he was fascinated with the small town and was instrumental in drawing much attention to it through his books .
all this attention bothered someone enough to pay old man vallin to blow the fort up and perhaps , also , to hide its architectural drawings .
finally , we can not forget what the two hollow needle books and their notes imply .
that may be the most telling point of all , '' i finished .
silence ensued .
finally , briar spoke for the entire team i am convinced something is going on .
historically speaking , etretat has drawn far more attention than a small fishing town deserves .
yet today all is forgotten , which , in itself , is odd .
however , when leblanc revives interest in this quaint little town , the fort of frefosse is coincidentally destroyed .
i think the fort is the focal point of these events . ''
i concur , '' supported coulter .
it 's got my vote , '' o'flanahan agreed .
gentleman , this is a solemn moment , '' i exclaimed .
from the slightest of clues , we have found a path to follow .
the great hunt has begun . ''
may we beat the shadow killer to the goal , '' added coulter sombrely .
the question is what do we do about it ? ''
o'flanahan asked , getting directly to the heart of the matter again .
some of us should go to france , to etretat , and continue the investigation on site .
the rest can stay behind and continue with the research .
we can communicate by , uhm ... '' do n't worry about communications .
i 've got that covered , '' stated coulter .
i think it would be best if i stayed behind for a while to set that up . ''
as you know , i 'm in the publishing business , '' said o'flanahan .
despite our time pressures , i can not just stop that machinery .
it will take me at least a week to reorganize .
in the meantime , i am positive i can turn up some useful information . ''
briar was nodding and looking sad at the same time .
i would also love to go , but the finals are beginning and i have papers to grade .
once that is done , i will be completely available . ''
this was not what i wanted .
i wanted to work as a team .
phone calls would simply not be enough and i said as much .
coulter assured me the problem was easy to solve .
he was convinced we could remain in communication via the internet .
with that problem addressed , it was agreed .
i was going to etretat !
chapter 4 travelling to france i peered out the plane window at the water below briefly , before placing the laptop on my knees .
selected specifically for this trip by coulter , it had been the first purchase in his plan to keep us in contact .
with my overstuffed bank account footing the bill , he had bought without restraint .
for several days , delivery trucks had dropped off dozens of boxes filled with high tech gadgets .
the laptop came with a satellite uplink and it extended battery life using solar panels imbedded in its cover .
along with all this came a very special pair of glasses .
wirelessly connected to my laptop , the techno glasses contained miniaturised cameras and viewing screens on the inside of the lenses .
microphones and headphones were built into the arms of the glasses .
the cameras had a zoom function and i could view scenes in either infrared or ultraviolet .
after coulter cobbled some software together , my team could receive audio and video from my glasses while sitting in comfort at home .
they could send information , displaying it on the miniature screens .
while the projected screen image only a few centimetres across , the impression was of a translucent sixty centimetre screen , floating about half a metre in front of my eyes .
the only problem with this incredible technology was that i had to speak aloud for my three teammates to hear me .
unfortunately , no one else could hear them !
would you like something from the bar , or would you prefer a complimentary orange juice ? ''
a glass of juice would be fine , thank you . ''
while the stewardess served me , i heard o'flanahan 's voice in my ear .
hey paul , how 's it going ? ''
good . ''
say , this techno gizmo coulter put together is phenomenal .
i can see everything as if i was there . ''
i waited for the stewardess to finish before replying .
what do you want , liam ? ''
i was wondering if you could do me a wee bit of a favour ? ''
he begged in an unctuous tone .
such as ? ''
could you turn your head to the right seventy five degrees ?
i wish to settle an argument with coulter , '' he explained .
i automatically turned my head , feeling like a remote control camera .
my eyes now rested upon a pretty , raven haired , bosomy woman , sitting across the aisle .
that 's more like it .
much better than that boring window view , '' he affirmed with a laugh .
having noticed my momentary stare , the dark haired woman smiled briefly then looked away .
i felt embarrassed .
are you interrupting me for anything more than this ? ''
of course .
what sort of person do you think i am ?
i was just letting you know your reservation at the villa leblanc has been confirmed . ''
why do n't you find some more info about the court case with old man vallin ?
why did it get dropped ?
who was the prosecutor ?
do some digging . ''
right you are , paul .
i 'll get on it .
see ya . ''
o'flanahan disconnected , causing a loud popping noise in my ear .
i got up to stretch my legs , making my way to the forward cabin and returning to my seat .
all the while , i reflected about the fort of frefosse .
it had originally been built fifteen hundred years ago , when the cliff extended four hundred metres further into the channel .
the fort would have been distant from the cliff edge , making it useless as a defence against naval attack .
so why was that location chosen ?
there had to be some other factor involved .
i suspected it might be a feature briar had mentioned in his geology class tunnels .
tunnels and caves .
he had said chalk cliffs were prone to form vertical pipes and large cavern systems .
what if such an opening had been found ?
would that have been motive enough to build the fort in such a disadvantageous location ?
my thoughts were interrupted by the captain .
we were about to begin our descent .
i heard a crackle in my ear .
it was coulter .
i came up with something really interesting !
you wo n't believe it . ''
what did you find ? ''
i downloaded a whole pile of french newspapers , scanning for stories relating to our search .
finding nothing , i did a random search for old man vallin , the guy who blew up the fort . ''
what about him ? ''
he was killed a few months after the explosion .
guess where he died ? ''
he taunted .
just tell me . ''
he died at the fort .
nobody knows what happened .
his body was found by a couple of local boys .
he might have been beaten , but it was hard to say .
he fell from a good height into the jagged rocks . ''
coulter signed off as the plane landed .
i made ready to leave , collecting my carry on luggage .
the woman from across the aisle stood up , glancing at me briefly and smiling .
i smiled back , taken in by her natural beauty .
there was something about her .
however , i was stuck on coulter 's revelation about old man vallin .
someone had n't been happy about the fort being blown up .
that someone had a conversation , a final conversation , with old man vallin .
had we uncovered a murder in etretat ?
i got off the plane , carrying my overfull satchel .
i had brought no other luggage , sure that i could buy whatever i needed on the way .
i rented a porsche , which was conveniently equipped with a gps .
it suggested various routes from paris to etretat .
i selected the first one and , following its prompts , navigated through the streets of paris until i reached the a13 towards rouen caen , continuing on towards le havre pont de tancarville .
after the bridge , i headed towards bolbec , on the d910 .
i heard a beep from the glasses and the monitor came on .
briar 's head appeared a metre in front of my face .
it was very distracting , so i had him turn off his laptop camera .
it is quite clever to be conversing this way , my boy .
the scenery is passing by and i hear the vehicle sounds in stereo .
i could almost swear i am in the car .
a capital idea , these techno glasses , '' briar stated .
thanks but they have disadvantages . ''
i have heard about some of them .
o'flanahan is often unstoppable , as are you , my friend but i did not call to discuss him .
i have been researching , which is why i have not been in contact .
i must even admit to ignoring some grading of papers , '' briar confessed .
sounds like you have the bug pretty bad . ''
you are correct .
this etretat thing is very odd indeed .
at first , with o'flanahan 's oak island nonsense , the great hunt seemed like poppycock , but every time i turn around , something else pops up , yet another bizarre fact . ''
what have you found now ? ''
i came across a biography of leblanc .
apparently , he was a sickly man .
he supported his sometime actress sister for much of her life .
however , he was not an adventurer , being neither into politics , nor public affairs , and shunning most publicity , except when promoting his novels .
i felt quite confident of this version of his life , until i came across a curious book , entitled filatures , published in 1980 by the university press in grenoble , dealing with the 'sum of leblanc 's writings ' . ''
the sum of his writing ? ''
i kid you not .
the book , subtitled 'a walk through the cycles of lupin and rouletabille ' claimed a very strange thing .
leblanc 's books revealed two distinct writing 'styles ' .
certain storylines , words and names , were thought to have been chosen for reasons beyond the needs of the story .
the purpose of this work is extremely nebulous and i found it quite bizarre someone would have thought of doing such an analysis in the first place .
by the way , another place where you can find a similar type of dual writing is in coded letters , '' briar pointed out .
coded letters ?
was leblanc hiding codes in his books ? ''
it is quite possible , if you believe the conclusions of this author . ''
codes about what ? ''
indeed !
i thought back to his biography , which held no place for a man hiding codes in his books .
what was he trying to say and to whom was he saying it ?
either 'filatures ' was contrived statistical nonsense , or leblanc 's biography was falsified . ''
codes or not , leblanc is right in the middle of it again . ''
briar signed off only to be replaced within moments by an overly excited o'flanahan .
listen , do you remember raymond lindon ? ''
yes .
the author who wrote about the tunnels in etretat . ''
you got it , boyo .
i 've been doing some research about him .
first thing was , i learnt he was the avocat general of france , their version of attorney general .
then i figured out the pseudonym he used , 'valere catogan ' is an anagram of avocat general .
he was also elected mayor of etretat at some point .
so lindon , assisted by leblanc , wrote a book linking etretat to treasure and historical mystery , while presenting lupin as a real person , not a fictional character .
finally , an absolute clincher this one , provided by coulter just a few minutes ago , a young raymond lindon was the assistant to the attorney who dropped the charges instead of prosecuting old man vallin .
more wood for the fire , would n't you say ? ''
almost too much . ''
there are a lot of people involved .
leblanc , lindon , lupin , and we ca n't forget the shadow killer , or the book your dad sent you .
i can smell a conspiracy all over this mess but that 's okay , i love that smell , he he he .
you 're not still upset for that stunt i pulled on the plane , are you ? ''
no i 'm not , o'flanahan .
god knows , i needed a laugh .
everything has been so serious lately .
at least , i managed to evade norton at the airport . ''
i do n't think he knows about the three of us yet .
that gives us an edge and i intend to keep it .
we can do a heck of a lot behind the scenes . ''
thanks , i appreciate that , i really do .
listen , i 'm getting into a bit of heavy traffic here .
how about we touch base again once i 'm settled in ? ''
right o .
see you then . ''
i arrived in etretat near nightfall .
the drive had gone well but i was exhausted and suffering from jet lag .
i found the rue guy de maupassant 15 and , moments later , drove into the parking lot of the villa leblanc .
it was as impressive as i had imagined .
its gabled roof , the imposing garden , complete with roman statues , and its inviting entrance were more than i had expected .
the front door opened and an older woman , white haired and matriarchal , walked out , a gentle smile on her face .
welcome to the villa leblanc .
my name is victoire leblanc , '' she stated in a strong , clear voice .
thank you .
i am so glad to meet you .
my name is paul sirenne .
i have a reservation . ''
ah , monsieur sirenne .
i remember taking your reservation .
please come in .
you must be exhausted .
you drove directly from paris after your plane trip , yes ? ''
i did .
i am a bit tired , i must admit .
also somewhat hungry , '' well then , let us not waste any more time .
we will get you signed in and i believe our cook may be able to put something together for you .
while you settle in , i will arrange to have some food sent to your room , perhaps with some white wine ? ''
she suggested .
that sounds wonderful . ''
the villa 's interior had been restored with careful attention to detail .
one section was closed off and signs informed me this was the famous hollow needle museum .
i knew what i was doing tomorrow .
signing in was mercifully quick and i was directed to my room .
i lay down on the sumptuous bed only to be roused by a knock at the door .
it was a maid , bringing a seafood platter and a half litre of white wine .
i ate the shrimp first , my personal weakness , then quickly took care of the rest .
i dropped back onto the bed and , without further objection from my stomach , fell asleep .
chapter 5 the needle of etretat the aroma of coffee awakened me .
next to my bed was a small table , upon which a single cup coffee machine , connected to an antique timer , was busy percolating .
i jumped in the shower , then had the coffee in lieu of breakfast , my stomach unsettled from the long trip and the late night meal .
feeling better , i headed downstairs and went out to the garden at the back of the villa .
i wanted to go see the needle but had decided to delay that until later in the afternoon , after the arsene lupin hollow needle museum tour .
i wandered the path , enjoying the garden .
leblanc 's villa was far bigger than i had anticipated .
i came across a stone bench and sat , the morning sun warming my face .
a cool breeze was blowing .
a car door slamming made me open my eyes and i saw a taxi driving away .
a raven haired woman was walking up the entrance stairs of the villa , meeting up with mrs leblanc .
i heard voices talking excitedly but they faded away in the wind .
i returned to my reflections , closing my eyes for a few moments .
after the museum tour , i was ready to go see the needle .
i put on my techno glasses and started a recording of the walk for my friends , knowing they were still deep in slumber .
i headed down rue de maupassant , enjoying the clear blue sky and refreshing sea air .
i took a left on brindejont , which turned into rue prosper .
eventually i arrived at etretat 's renowned black pebble beach .
to my right was the magnificent amont cliff with its 'elephant trunk ' arch .
angling my head , i peered through the aval arch .
there it was the famous needle !
i headed left , arriving quickly at the terrasse guy de maupassant , and clambered up a tourist trail , heading up the aval cliff .
i noted the mysterious 'door in the cliff ' and wondered what was behind it .
about halfway up , i stopped for a brief rest , after which i finished the marathon climb .
it would have been more inspiring had i been in better shape .
arriving at the top was a letdown .
the view of etretat was excellent but i could see nothing of the needle .
following the posted signs , i approached the edge of the cliff and was finally able to see it in its entirety .
i 'd examined pictures of it but nothing compared to the reality of being here , of seeing the needle surrounded by the swelling and crashing of the channel water .
moving away from the edge , i followed another trail , skirting the golf course .
in the distance , i noticed a worn structure , an old bunker .
it was exactly like the one in my dream .
i wanted to go see it but my attention was drawn by the trail leading to the 'chambre des demoiselles ' , a small chamber carved into the edge of the cliff .
in leblanc 's story , it had been the key which led lupin to the hidden entrance below the fort of frefosse .
there was a small bridge leading to the chamber 's rectangular entrance .
inside , the carved letters 'd ' and 'f ' projected from the floor below the small rectangular window , just as described in the hollow needle .
stepping onto them , i was elevated roughly to the window 's height .
there , on the left bottom corner , a quartz crystal stuck out , shaped roughly like an eagle 's talon .
looking through the crystal was supposed to reveal the special brick that opened the secret tunnel .
closing one eye , i could indeed see a moss covered brick wall at the base of the fort 's foundation .
to my surprise , i saw a small white cross through the eagle 's talon , as mentioned in leblanc 's novel .
my excitement could hardly be contained .
i rushed out and ran back across the bridge , scrambling down a narrow path , nearly slipping off the precipitous edge in the process .
i found the fort 's old brick foundation but , to my disappointment , could not move any of the bricks , no matter how hard i tried .
after a while , i calmed down .
i already knew the secret tunnel into the hollow needle was fiction , made up by leblanc 's fertile mind .
yet here i was , pushing and prodding every brick within reach , like a treasure chasing amateur .
still , it had been exciting , if only for a few moments !
it was mid afternoon and i was tired .
spying a large building a few hundred yards away , i decided to head there to sit down and get a drink .
as i walked through the parking lot , a car horn sounded twice , attracting my attention .
it was inspector norton .
he motioned for me to get in .
despite a degree of apprehension , curiosity gained the upper hand .
if he 'd wanted to arrest me , he would have done it already .
i had barely seated myself in the passenger 's seat when he took off briskly .
well , well , well .
what a surprise .
running into each other on a completely different continent .
i can barely explain it .
can you ? ''
he was toying with me .
i stayed on my guard .
there is nothing to explain , inspector .
the police said i was n't a suspect . ''
do you take me for a fool , sirenne ?
did you seriously believe you could evade me so easily ? ''
his face was getting animated .
i do n't know what you think is going on here , mr sirenne , but let me assure you this is not a game . ''
someone murdered my father and his wife .
i know how serious this is . ''
and you think that impresses me ?
i have personally seen seventeen of the shadow killer 's victims , including my beloved sister , helen . ''
he stopped abruptly , holding back a sob .
now i knew why norton was so vehemently obsessed with the shadow killer .
he had a personal vendetta .
looking at the man again , i tried to sympathise with him and failed .
it was his eyes .
the way they shifted , scanning the horizon without cease , never settling on anything .
he seemed unhinged .
i watched him take a deep breath , visibly trying to contain his emotions .
he drove to the beach area and parked near a bistro .
i just want to have a quick drink and talk quietly for a while .
the situation has changed .
there are things you must be made aware of . ''
he was making an effort of some sort .
i nodded in agreement .
he wove his way between the tables in front of the bistro , walking to the very back and sitting down .
his eyes continued roving everywhere , as he placed his order with the waitress .
do you know a man named harry styles ? ''
no . ''
no matter , i did n't expect you to .
he was the manager of a car dealership in ottawa .
he was on the same flight you were on . ''
okay . ''
there 's a big problem with him being on that plane .
he was killed twenty four hours earlier ! ''
what ? ''
you heard me .
killed , dead as a doornail , yet he got on , or rather , someone used his ticket and got on that plane .
i 've got some news for you .
the shadow killer is right here , right now ! ''
his eyes darted madly in every direction .
he looked haunted , or perhaps , hunted !
look , sirenne , i do n't know what you think you 're doing here but you 've got to know he is toying with you .
i 'll tell you something else .
i 'm convinced you lied to me , back there , at your house , when we spoke the second time , maybe something about that package you received .
you know something and you 're not telling .
the killer left a message and you got it all right .
since then , you 've been spending money all over the place , big money .
then you disappear , or at least you try to .
these are not the actions of an innocent man .
these are the actions of a man with something to hide . ''
inspector ... '' no , let me finish .
i do n't care what you 're doing here .
i do n't even care you lied to me .
i just care about getting the shadow killer .
you go ahead and keep your little secrets , it does n't matter .
i 'll find out about them eventually .
listen , sirenne , this is the first real chance i 've had to get close to that murdering monster .
i can feel it .
you ca n't imagine how frustrating this has been , how all consuming it has become .
yet , no matter how hard i try , i always come up empty handed .
not a single shred of physical evidence has ever been left behind .
no hair , no dead skin cells , no saliva , nothing !
it 's impossible .
he 'd have to be wearing a damn body condom !
and , of course , there are never any witnesses , nothing out of the usual .
even this last murder , surely done on the spur of the moment , was perfect .
he did n't bother with any of his usual games , mind you .
it was a clean kill . ''
shuddering , he sat up straighter and continued .
despite the lack of any evidence , harry styles ' murder and the murder of your parents have spoken to me .
the killer was acting hastily , almost rashly , not caring about the consequences , about the attention these murders might attract .
this is totally out of character for him .
he wants something from you , mr sirenne . ''
me ? ''
yes you , and i can tell you something else .
not much frightens me anymore but i am frightened now .
the killer is here and he is watching your every move , waiting to pounce when the time is right .
he could be anywhere , he could be anyone .
your only value is that you have not yet given him what he wants .
when he gets it , the only thing between you and him will be me !
perhaps you 'll start singing a different tune then . ''
he laughed loudly and off key .
the man was no longer in his right mind , obsessed with the shadow killer .
his assurances of protection gave me little faith .
yet , i had to heed his warning .
i was not sufficiently prepared for this situation .
norton left the bistro , muttering to himself .
even if the shadow killer had murdered another man to come here incognito , my task remained unchanged .
i had to keep on the hunt , or i would end up in the killer 's wake , a dangerous place to be .
i headed to etretat 's city hall to examine their older records .
it was possible coulter had missed something .
according to my tourist map it was located on place maurice guillard , only a few blocks away .
i hurried down a narrow street , arriving at the building quickly .
entering , i approached a long counter .
a thin , small man stood up from a desk , an unlit cigarette hanging precariously from his mouth .
he wore a half cap and armbands , his cuffs folded up .
despite being shorter , he somehow managed to look down at me .
yes .
what do you want ? ''
i was wondering if i might check some of your older records ? ''
he looked at me piercingly .
you 're not from around here .
why do you want to examine our older records ?
what records ? ''
he asked , demanding an answer with his eyes .
i 'm looking for records from the early 1900 's , hopefully around 1911 .
court documents , newspapers , that sort of thing . ''
no .
absolutely not .
you 're not allowed .
we do n't keep the documents here anyway .
you 'd need a form 1138 g and those are only issued with approval from the mayor and he 's away for two weeks , '' he shot back with finality , returning to his chair and studiously ignoring me .
i stood briefly at the counter , baffled by his reaction .
he added brusquely .
i must close .
it is time to leave . ''
opening his desk drawer , he pulled out a set of keys .
lifting a section of the counter , he dropped it back down after walking through it .
come on , let 's go .
i must close .
summer hours , '' he stated , gesturing with his arms .
i was literally pushed out , watching him lock the door and head off behind the building .
frustrated , i started back towards the villa leblanc .
halfway there , i felt like i was being followed .
turning around , i saw a man some distance away .
i pressed the tiny button on my glasses , activating the zoom mode .
the screen came on , displaying an enlarged view .
tapping the button a couple of times , i increased the magnification , revealing the man from city hall .
i turned around and shut the binocular mode off .
he was following me , no doubt about it .
the question was why ?
he could n't be the shadow killer .
as for leblanc 's adventures , they happened almost one hundred years ago .
how would that man even know about any of that ?
i would 've broken out into a fast run but i was exhausted and my feet were tired .
arriving at the villa , i found mrs leblanc at the counter .
ah , monsieur sirenne .
how are you ?
did you have a good walk ? ''
seeing my state , her eyes softened .
but what am i doing , talking on , while you are so obviously tired ?
why do n't you head up to your room ?
i will have some hot water and salts brought up to you , for soaking your feet . ''
thank you , mrs leblanc .
that is exactly what i need .
you have read my mind . ''
once in my room , i sat on the bed , taking off my shoes and socks .
after a moment of rest , i opened my laptop on the bedside table .
i ensured it had recorded my meeting with inspector norton and the man from the mairie .
i saved it all and sent it to the team in ottawa .
as i finished , i heard a knock at the door .
i stood up stiffly , moving slowly .
mrs leblanc was there , a big bowl in hand .
i 'm sorry monsieur sirenne but my maid has gone home for the day .
my daughter has recently arrived but she is still busy unpacking , so i came with the water , if you do not mind . ''
nonsense .
i 'm embarrassed for putting you to so much trouble . ''
she came in , motioning me to the chair by the desk .
she placed the flat bottomed bowl by my feet and i slipped them into the warm water while she poured a packet of salts into the steaming liquid .
a pleasant herbal smell wafted up .
she handed me a small towel and stood up .
there you are .
soon you will be back to normal .
you did too much today , your first day here .
you must learn to pace yourself , '' she paused , examining me curiously .
did you enjoy our museum show ? ''
yes , very much .
i was told you had a hand in creating it .
it was fantastic .
i 'm afraid it is what inspired me to walk to the needle , '' she laughed out loud .
you must be looking for the treasure of the hollow needle , like all the others who come here .
fooled by my grandfather 's books . ''
not exactly like all the others .
my father gave me a copy of the hollow needle when i was nine .
i 've dreamed of coming here since then . ''
yes , the trip brings you closer to your father , does it not ?
the memories and the adventure all together . ''
you have it exactly .
leblanc and lupin were my heroes during my youth .
my father was the one who introduced me to them , '' a conspiratorial gleam appeared in her eyes .
would you like to see grand papa 's office ?
the place where he wrote so many of his books ? ''
she suggested .
it is closed to the public but i will make an exception for you .
i think you would appreciate it much more than the average tourist , do n't you ? ''
i lifted my feet from the steaming water , towelled them dry , then grabbed my socks , shoes , and glasses .
i 'm ready ! ''
she laughed , waiting for me to slip on the shoes .
soon after , we arrived at a door on the first floor .
before opening it , she cautioned .
please do not touch anything .
it is being prepared for an upcoming presentation and many items have been placed specifically . ''
do n't worry , i 'll just look , '' i replied , thinking of the recording cameras in my glasses .
the room was light beige , complimenting the antique furniture .
leblanc 's desk was simple enough , letters strewn over one side , a few reference books on the other .
behind his desk , an impressive built in library rose from a wide drawer unit to the top of the wall .
a few pictures were artfully placed on the ledge at the bottom of the bookcases .
i examined everything avidly .
i must return to the front desk soon .
perhaps we can come back another time ? ''
mrs leblanc informed me after a few minutes .
before we could leave , i heard a voice , coming from the hallway .
maman ?
where are you ?
maman ? ''
here , my dear , i am in grand papa 's office with mr sirenne '' i was standing deep in the office and could not see mrs leblanc 's daughter from my vantage point .
as soon as she entered however , there was no mistaking it .
it was the raven haired woman from the plane !
this is my daughter , raymonde , mr sirenne . ''
i think we have seen each other before , mr sirenne , '' she exclaimed with a twinkle in her deep hazel eyes .
yes , i 'm sure we have , '' i replied a smile .
she smiled back instantly , turning to her mother .
we are needed at the front desk , maman .
the large group has just arrived . ''
with a sigh , mrs leblanc followed us out and locked the door .
after saying a few parting words , they headed down the hall , towards the front desk .
my attention remained on the daughter , inexplicably feeling a deep connection to her .
i returned to my room and sat on the edge of the bed , wondering why i felt this way .
i hardly knew her .
suddenly i was looking at coulter and o'flanahan on the techno glasses ' screen .
they had been along for the ride for a while and had seen everything hi guys , what 's up ? ''
o'flanahan took the lead .
while we were enjoying your tour of leblanc 's office , we noticed something .
do you recall when you walked by the desk ? ''
yes , there were some letters and a few books , '' right .
one of those letters caught my eye . ''
o'flanahan 's face disappeared , replaced by a letter , angled sideways on the desk .
take a look at the handwriting on it . ''
i turned my head sideways to straighten the letter out , accomplishing nothing because the image was inside my glasses and moved with my head .
sorry , ca n't make it out .
what about it ? ''
do you remember about four years ago , the booklet i published about hitler not dying in the bunker ?
the one claiming he escaped in a submarine convoy ? ''
o'flanahan asked , changing the subject completely . ''
what about it ? ''
i ended up working with copies of hitler 's letters and got pretty familiar with them .
the letter on leblanc 's desk seems to be in the same handwriting , '' o'flanahan dead panned .
next to him , coulter was nodding .
i think he 's right , paul .
this is n't nonsense .
even briar agrees , '' hold on , you ca n't be serious .
anyway , mrs leblanc said she placed all sorts of things in the office for an upcoming event .
maybe it 's not even related to leblanc . ''
those were our exact thoughts .
even if the video is too blurry , we can see the date just fine , january twelfth , 1910 .
that 's just before the events with old man vallin .
hitler or not , i 'm convinced we need to get a closer look at it .
we want you to sneak in there and get that letter , '' o'flanahan stated with conviction .
what ?
you want me to break into leblanc 's office ? ''
calm down .
we only want to look at the letter , not steal it .
just bring it up to your room .
you can return it later on , when everyone is sleeping , '' coulter oversimplified , adding anyway , your glasses can see in the ultraviolet and infrared range . ''
so ? ''
we can use them to help you pick the lock on the door , '' coulter explained .
they were serious .
i had to admit , if hitler was involved , i wanted to know about it as quickly as possible .
i agreed to 'borrow ' the letter , as they both knew i would .
secrecy was still paramount , so breaking in did seem to be the most viable option .
i had a few small tools for my computer , in a little pouch .
i could use them to pick the lock .
i had never done it before but i was familiar the principle .
it should be fairly easy .
i waited a few hours to let everyone settle in at the villa leblanc .
eventually , i decided the time was right and opened my door slightly .
no one around !
i sneaked out , tip toeing down the hallway and staircase , quietly finding my way back to leblanc 's office .
i knelt by the door , pulling out my tools while looking nervously around .
stop turning your head .
i ca n't focus on the doorknob , '' coulter 's voice blared in my ear , scaring the heck out of me .
he sounded as nervous as i was .
keeping my head still , a screen appeared in my glasses .
the view of the doorknob changed to a green monochrome when coulter altered the visual range to infrared .
it did little to show the locking mechanism , hidden within the now green doorknob .
that 's not very helpful . ''
coulter changed the cameras to ultraviolet .
the door colours flipped into a bright red with a luminescent yellow border , the doorknob now totally black .
very psychedelic but equally useless .
increasingly exasperated , i grabbed my tools and tried to pick the lock .
i slipped a small screwdriver into the key hole and jiggled it along the top , trying to 'scrub ' the pins ' , not even sure where the pins were or what 'scrubbing pins ' meant .
meanwhile , coulter kept shifting from infrared to ultraviolet , the screen blinding me .
i was about to voice some sort of protest , when o'flanahan exclaimed .
wait , look at the edge of the door , by the doorknob . ''
the metal flange , holding the door closed tight , was missing .
i pushed my screwdriver in between the door and the jamb .
the door instantly snapped open and slammed loudly against the side wall .
i knelt there , listening for any reaction , frozen .
go , go , go , what are you waiting for ?
grab the letter and get out of there , '' o'flanahan blasted .
his scream galvanised me into action and , my heart hammering in my chest , i ran to the desk and snatched the letter .
i rushed back out , slamming the door behind me , then walked nonchalantly along the hall and up the stairs , while trying to calm my racing heart .
meanwhile , o'flanahan and coulter were laughing nonstop .
listen to his breathing .
sounds like a train or something .
that was funny .
did you see him go , go , go , when you said it ?
ha ha ha , '' howled coulter .
o'flanahan was laughing too hard to answer .
be quiet , both of you . ''
moments later , i was in my room examining the letter closely .
it was written in german , so coulter used a translation program .
january 12 , 1910 , sir , i have recently read your book , the hollow needle .
i found it revealing and interesting .
allow me to come to the point .
i have long been fascinated by historical mysteries and treasures , both mystical and real , particularly those evidenced in architectural detail .
during my studies , i came across a historical reference to the same mystery and treasure to which your book alludes .
not in the same manner , to be sure , but sufficiently so to warrant further research .
i am able to arrange a brief visit to etretat in the near future , while visiting my sister in england .
it would be a perfect time to discuss certain matters which might be of value to us both .
i await your reply .
johann hister .
coulter was the first to speak .
the name hister sounds familiar .
let me do a quick search ... will you look at that .
the search engine found it in nostradamus ' books .
several of his quatrains used 'hister ' to represent hitler .
that 's a heck of a coincidence . ''
i remember it too , now that you mention it , '' added o'flanahan .
a tired looking face appeared on the screen .
it was briar .
he had been listening in .
hold everything , gentlemen .
i just had confirmation from my very excited friend in nuremberg , a specialist in world war 2 history .
that handwriting is indeed hitler 's .
best of all , hitler was in england for a brief period of time , quite early on in his life , visiting his sister , just as the letter asserts .
it has to be him ! ''
could hitler really have come to etretat ?
before world war one ? ''
i wondered .
hitler knew something about the hollow needle .
perhaps he recognised inconsistencies in the story .
he was obviously driven to contact leblanc .
let 's not forget we 're talking about a young hitler , during his formative years in vienna .
he had not even written 'mein kampf '' .
the whole thing is very plausible , '' o'flanahan surmised .
i could agree with that theory , '' supported briar .
however , if he did come here , it was done quite discretely and has remained a secret ever since , not a simple feat to achieve .
unfortunately , hitler 's letter is not enough to prove he visited leblanc , nor tell us what occurred during that visit ?
both are dead now .
we will never know . ''
i want to know what leblanc did back then . ''
how ?
what else can we do ? ''
coulter asked .
for now , continue digging .
review the videos of inspector norton and that man from the mairie .
try to find more connections between the past and the present .
as for me , i have to return the letter and get some sleep .
tomorrow , we can figure out our next step . ''
my friends logged off and i removed my glasses , connecting them to the battery charger .
my eyes wandered the room , settling on hitler 's letter .
i picked it up carefully , the old paper feeling crumbly .
it was nearing 12 30 am .
this was probably as good a time as any to do the deed .
i arrived at the office without incident and knelt in front of the door , intent on using the screwdriver again .
the weak latch gave way unexpectedly and the door flew open , banging loudly against the wall again .
i hurried in , holding the letter , when a sound caused me to turn around .
standing in the doorway was mrs leblanc 's daughter !
uhm , hello there , raymonde , how are you , this fine evening ? ''
what are you doing here ?
why are you in grand papa 's room ?
you were stealing his papers !
that is it . ''
no , i was n't stealing it , i was , uhm , i was returning it . ''
and you think that makes it right ?
you broke in here to return stolen papers ?
and who stole them if it was n't you ?
tell me that , you , you liar . ''
wait please .
you are right .
i did take the letter but i am also returning it .
at least let me explain , then you can call the police if you want . ''
i brought my hands together , the letter in them not helping my plea .
returning the letter to the table , i tapped it down , smoothing away the wrinkles .
i know this looks bad but i swear this is truly important . ''
she glared for a while but a smile worked against her frown .
no thief could look as pitiful as that .
get up and explain yourself .
no wait , i have a better idea .
meet me for breakfast downstairs , tomorrow morning .
you can explain then and it had better be good .
now back to your room , '' she stated , motioning me with her hands .
she followed me , not saying another word .
i went into my room , looking at her one last time .
thank you for believing me . ''
do n't thank me yet .
we will wait for tomorrow to see if thanks are due or not , '' she returned , closing the door and double locking it from the outside .
chapter 6 raymonde leblanc it was 7 30 am .
the sound of a key in my door had woken me .
be down in fifteen minutes .
i 'll be waiting downstairs for your explanation , '' raymonde leblanc stated through the door .
i showered , dressed rapidly and hurried down , joining her at the corner table in the dining room .
i have already ordered breakfast for you .
your story had better be good . ''
with a sigh , i sat down , looking at her .
her hazel eyes were luminous , accentuated by laughter lines .
she seemed to be in her mid thirties .
a shock of raven black hair was barely held in check by a colourful ribbon tied behind her back .
a few freckles adorned her cheeks .
it made her look somehow mischievous .
her nose was small and pert .
a wide smile and perfect teeth .
she was beautiful .
thank you for giving me a chance last night .
i know we did n't start off well but it 's all a big misunderstanding .
i hope you do n't mind but i have to go back a bit in order to explain why i am here . ''
fine .
i will listen . ''
my father and his wife were murdered by a monster called the shadow killer .
before dying , my father sent me a clue about an ancient family mystery in the form of a book , the hollow needle , written by your great grandfather .
i followed the clues here , to etretat .
unfortunately , the serial killer who killed my father is also here , searching for the same answers .
on top of that , i 've got an interpol inspector chasing me as well '' you poor man .
to lose your parents like that , '' she sympathised .
and so brave to take up the chase for answers , despite all the dangers . ''
the dangers will be there no matter what i do .
bravery has little to do with it .
the serial killer is out there and no one has a chance of stopping him any time soon .
after re reading the hollow needle , i wondered what leblanc was really writing about .
i asked a few friends to help me research the subject .
a link seems to exist between my family , your great grandfather , and the fort of frefosse . ''
she seemed startled when i mentioned the fort .
i continued coming here was the next logical step and i was selected to take the trip .
my friends remained at home for the time being and , uhm , stayed in close communication throughout the trip .
i would do the physical investigation , they would do the research and we would figure out together what was going on in etretat . ''
the waitress brought our breakfast .
i had omitted mentioning the techno glasses because it would lead us right back into that plane cabin and how we met , thanks to o'flanahan .
from the moment i met raymonde , i was attracted to her .
the feelings were out of place but they were there nonetheless .
i could not tell if she reciprocated my feelings but , after being caught stealing that letter , i did n't want to make any further mistakes and risk losing her burgeoning trust .
i noticed a thin man sitting at a table nearby , his head turning away when i looked in his direction .
despite an attempt to hide his features , i recognised him as the unpleasant clerk from the mairie .
he was listening to our every word .
a bead of sweat broke over my brow and butterflies invaded my stomach .
are you all right ?
you have gone all pale , '' raymonde said , looking concerned .
no , uhm , it 's my stomach .
it 's cramping like crazy .
i must return to my room .
can you help me there ? ''
i asked , bending over slightly .
raymonde looked suspicious but helped me out of the restaurant , her warm , shapely body pressing against mine in the narrow hallway .
before we could reach the stairs , i straightened out and whispered in her ear i 'm fine .
not sick .
sorry about that , trust me , i 'll explain in a few minutes .
however , we must leave here now .
let 's go to my car . ''
i steered her towards the exit and the parking lot .
we walked quickly , hurrying to the porsche .
what is going on ? ''
i am being followed .
that man sitting next to us .
i met him yesterday , at the mairie , where i was trying to get information about old records .
he was inexplicably rude and refused to grant me access .
suddenly , this morning , he is sitting at the next table , listening to our every word .
do you know him ? ''
i asked .
no , i 'm afraid not .
i have n't been here for years .
but we should not have too much trouble finding out who he is .
if he slept here , his name will be on the register .
maman will probably know him .
she knows everybody around here .
where are we going ? ''
i do n't know .
i just want to get away from him .
how about we drive to the needle and sit on a bench and talk there . ''
and what of breakfast ?
we walked away from our meal .
i am still hungry , '' she argued , pouting a little .
how about we stop and order a take out meal on the way ? ''
non , '' she flatly refused .
i want to be comfortable for my breakfast .
i will not sit on a cement bench , eating on my knees .
there is a restaurant at the golf club , near the needle .
we can have breakfast there . ''
fine , '' i agreed .
she certainly was temperamental .
personally , i was fine with coffee for breakfast .
i opened the car door and she got in when i saw the clerk from the mairie looking through the restaurant window .
incapable of resisting , i waved with what i hoped was an insolent smile and got in .
starting the powerful engine , i slammed it into gear and pushed my foot down hard .
the wheels spun , screeching sharply , and we took off like a bullet , the back end of the car nearly sliding out of control .
i almost hit a street sign as we shot out of the parking lot , narrowly avoiding an oncoming truck .
what are you doing ?
why are you going so fast ?
you nearly hit that truck back there , '' raymonde screamed .
sorry , rented car .
not used to it yet . ''
that was scary . ''
i noticed her fast breathing and its effect on her chest .
keep your eyes on the road .
get that foot off the gas and turn left over there . ''
we reached the golf club restaurant quickly , thanks to her expert directions .
we sat at a table overlooking the aval cliff and ordered breakfast from a tall , balding waiter , whose shiny head reminded me of briar .
when he left , raymonde leaned back in her chair .
well , now that we are here and all alone , perhaps you could finish your story ? ''
i 'm sorry for acting so suspiciously but , i did n't want anyone else overhearing . ''
unless that someone was going to call the police about a thief . ''
we both know the time has passed for that . ''
her hazel eyes jumped to mine .
well , you do have some backbone in you after all .
yes , you are right .
i will not call the police .
i do n't like involving them .
i must admit i know something about this mystery as well .
i will explain after you have told me the rest of your story .
but be quick and to the point . ''
i reached in my jacket pocket and pulled out my glasses .
if raymonde had important information , i had to record it .
why did you put those on ?
do you have a problem with your eyes ? ''
yes , the glasses , uhm , help me see better , '' and farther .
and in the dark .
and record everything .
next time , pick a better style .
something not as black or heavy .
you look like , how do you say it ?
like a 'dork ' .
is that the word ? ''
how about i tell you the rest of my story ? ''
go ahead , mr sirenne . ''
paul , please .
as i said , i arrived in paris , obtained a car and drove directly here .
my focus was on the fort of frefosse , reputedly blown up in 1911 by the army .
in fact , our information revealed someone called old man vallin destroyed it and he was paid to do it .
two months later , vallin was killed , thrown into the crater left after the fort 's destruction .
after an encounter with norton , the interpol inspector , i went to the mairie , looking for clues about old man vallin .
that was where i met the little man who was spying on us .
last night , your mother showed me your great grandfather 's office .
while there , they , uhm , i saw a letter ... '' the letter i found you holding . ''
that 's the one . ''
i have seen it before , long ago .
it was from grand papa 's papers .
maman must have put it on the desk for the presentation coming up . ''
when i saw the letter , i thought i recognised the handwriting .
i did not have time to check it out because you came in .
i went back later to borrow the letter , to check if i was right about the writing , '' who had written it , then ?
tell me . ''
wait , here comes breakfast .
we ca n't let the waiter overhear us . ''
raymonde was flustered but remained silent while the waiter served us .
as soon as he was out of hearing distance , she pounced .
now , you will tell me who wrote that letter .
no more delays .
i will eat and you will speak . ''
fine , if you put it like that .
we , uhm , i believe the letter was written by adolf hitler . ''
hitler ?
are you positive ? ''
yes .
a specialist from nuremberg confirmed it .
hitler was living across the channel with his sister , when the letter was written .
we do n't know if your grandfather met him , but hitler 's letter implied the hollow needle might not be complete fiction .
there is more about the fort of frefosse .
it might have been built over a tunnel leading to a huge cave .
we think the aval cliff is hollow and your grandfather knew it .
now , thanks to that letter , we believe hitler may have known of it as well . ''
she had cleaned her plate in the time it took me to tell her about hitler .
i too have questions about grand papa .
i 'm sure you know maman was with him when the germans invaded our poor little town .
she has never forgotten those events , although she rarely talks about them .
that is when she lost her sister and her father .
relatives took her in after grand papa died .
gone or not , grand papa 's spirit was always haunting us .
when maman re opened the villa and asked me to return , i decided i was going to find answers , if only to be done with grand papa and maybe help maman get on with her life .
something else happened instead .
you happened ! ''
me ?
what about me ? ''
do n't play the innocent .
from the moment i saw you on that plane , i have n't been able to stop thinking about you .
you are the strangest man i have ever met , coming here with information and wild ideas , answering the exact questions i have .
the thing is , despite your antics , i like you .
i feel i can trust you .
i do n't know if i 'm speaking out of turn but i 'd like to work together on grand papa 's mystery .
we could solve this thing together and catch the murderer who killed your parents .
it sounds dangerous but i do n't care .
and we need to talk to maman about all this . ''
let 's go right now . ''
no , we will wait for that man to go away .
right now , i would like to go for a walk and get to know more about you . ''
she headed outside , leaving me to settle the bill .
i gave the waiter a good tip , remembering his excellent timing , and hurried out of the restaurant .
i caught sight of raymonde walking near the edge of the cliff and hurried down to join her .
we walked in silence .
i could think of little else but her , wondering what i was doing , thinking of a relationship , with so many dangers and challenges all around .
i could n't explain why now or why here but i knew i was falling in love !
i moved nearer .
she did n't shift away and smiled shyly .
we looked deep into each other 's eyes and she entwined her arm into mine , pulling me tight against her .
i could feel her every movement , her body rubbing against mine .
i felt thrilled , my thoughts and emotions running wild .
as we walked along , a brisk wind stirred up .
the whole scene felt vaguely familiar , like a dj vu .
i tried to dispel the feeling but it only grew stronger when she started speaking .
i used to come up here , as a little girl .
i wandered the countryside but this was my favourite place .
when you mentioned the tunnels and caves , it made me think of jean auel . ''
did n't she write the book 'clan of the cave bear ' ? ''
that is the one .
i was fascinated by her description of the neanderthals and how they lived in caves , right here , in france .
i have gone to some of them to see the wall paintings .
france has thousands of caves and people have been living in them for more than twenty five thousand years .
it seems very possible there might be a cave right under our feet .
who knows for how long it has been here ? ''
she stopped walking and looked down .
we were standing where the fort of frefosse had been .
if a cave existed , its entrance was here , buried below tons of concrete , sand traps and landscaping .
i noticed a large , familiar looking , structure nearby .
the dj vu feeling was back .
what is that ? ''
it is the first bunker built in etretat by the germans . ''
you mean to tell me the first bunker they built was over the ruins of the fort .
does n't that seem curious ? ''
yes , now that you mention it .
let 's go in and look around . ''
it was a crumbling affair , a bad mix of cement and local sand .
the bunker was a stark reminder that , sixty years ago , this small peaceful town had seen horrible destruction and upheaval at the hands of the german army .
approaching the bunker , a powerful feeling swept over me , as if i were being watched .
was the shadow killer here ?
had the man from the mairie found us ?
i looked around in a panic .
peering behind me , i realised this was the exact scene from my strange dream .
remembering the strong light coming from the bunker in my dream , i examined it .
the openings were dark and lifeless .
raymonde 's arm tightened on mine as we entered the bare doorway , leading us into a simple room .
the cement was crumbling away everywhere except for the floor , poured from a later batch .
why would they have re cemented it , if not to fill in or hide something ?
apart from that , there was nothing unusual .
perhaps my dream had been nothing more .
however , it had not felt like a dream .
it had felt meaningful .
we left the bunker , heading back onto the path .
she caught my arm again , pulling me against her side .
i thought about maurice leblanc , about how he had led me here , to raymonde , his great granddaughter .
i thought about what my father had said so long ago , a phrase vividly remembered son , one day , you will be thinking about how life has brought you full circle , when the end has brought you back to the beginning .
that is when the real mystery will be exposed .
that is when you will know why i have given you this book . ''
in a way , my father 's end had led me to this beginning with raymonde .
i wondered if my father had been telling me about the circle of life .
perhaps the real mystery had nothing to do with treasure .
smiling to myself , i pulled raymonde very close and kissed her .
i forgot about my father after that .
top secret for adolf hitler 's eyes only from obersleutenant weissmuller 2nd of february , 1937 this is to be my final report about the etretat research project .
i have succeeded in our original goals a full two years ahead of schedule .
i believe the result to be exactly what we desired .
all specialists , historians and archaeologists who researched etretat have been eliminated .
no trace of them , or their research , will ever be found .
in some instances , this required drastic measures , all of which were successfully conducted in complete secrecy .
as well , all key documents were removed from the universities involved without incident .
as a result , we are now the only ones aware of the secrets which lie below the cliffs of etretat , apart from whatever our opponents in etretat might know .
they and their cursed town have unfortunately remained well protected despite our most strenuous efforts .
luckily , it seems their desire for secrecy is as great as ours .
we are therefore safe to begin the next phase .
i have already made preparations .
my recent appointment to the post of obersleutenant in your army will help in this regard .
no matter what our opponents attempt , this time they will not succeed .
we will be victorious and the caves will be ours .
i have attached a brief summary of the assembled research for your examination .
once i have access to the caves , an clearer picture should emerge .
historical summary 1 the creation of the etretat caves .
the caves were likely formed sixty five million years ago by a meteorite impact in a shallow seabed .
through natural geological processes , the cracked seabed raised up , until it was an imposing limestone plateau , towering one hundred meters over the water .
four hundred and fifty thousand years ago , the weald artois anticline ridge failed , releasing a million cubic meters of water per minute .
lasting several months , the flood carved out the core of the english channel .
during the flood , the cracked seabed around the meteorite was exposed to hyper erosion , the flood gouging out the cracks into much larger holes before receding .
the process repeated one hundred and eighty thousand years ago when the weald artois anticline ridge failed again .
the resulting flood finished digging out the english channel and the caves .
2 the formation of the rift in the cliff location present day etretat the weald artois flood created many lakes in surrounding valleys .
an inland fresh water sea was formed on the mainland , not far from the caves .
over the years , several tributaries developed , emptying the inland sea into the new english channel .
one such tributary eventually became the seine river .
over time , a small river offshoot dug a narrow path in the limestone bed , near the buried meteorite and its nest of caves .
over millennia , the tributary grew , eroding its estuary into a long narrow valley .
as the inland sea level dropped , gravel was deposited on the tributary beds , filling the smaller rivers completely with fine gravel .
the river emptying into the newly created port of etretat stopped flowing on the surface .
plants encroached on the dry river bed until it vanished completely , hiding all evidence of the water still flowing below .
3 the roman period of occupation by 54 bc , the caves lay deep in belgica , a gaul territory , near the town of caleti etretat .
caesar was developing plans to deal with the bothersome gauls , who had been harassing the romans for almost three hundred years .
unfortunately for the gauls , caesar 's decision to commit most of the roman military resources to the gallic wars was the turning point , setting the stage for a final confrontation .
vercingetorix , chief of the averni tribe of central gaul , incited by the brutal roman attacks , successfully united the gauls against the romans .
the inhabitants of caleti , learning of vercingetorix 's rallying cry , sent ten thousand men to join the growing army , seriously depleting their ranks at home .
caesar suffered a defeat at gergovia but finally cornered vercingetorix at alesia , effectively marking the end of the gallic wars .
the small caleti port was taken over by the romans .
construction of a road was begun , linking the port with juliobonna .
roman structures were built on each cliff overlooking caleti , one a roman garrison and the other a fort , designed for private use .
this fort , known today as frefosse , was built over the entrance to the cave , effectively hiding it .
the port remained in use until the end of the roman period .
the caves were re discovered by francis the first , during his rebuilding of the fort .
he chose to keep their existence hidden , using them as his private repository for gold and other valuables .
knowledge of the caves was lost during the french revolution .
they remained undisturbed until leblanc 's amateurish efforts brought attention to them once again .
end of summary chapter 7 talking to mrs leblanc we spent the rest of the afternoon walking slowly along the paths , learning about each other .
it gave me the opportunity to explain about my father 's hunts and about the note found hidden inside the book .
through it all , i never breathed a single word about my techno glasses .
i would find an opening when the time was right .
we agreed to join forces and figure out the connection between our families .
the next step was to talk to her mother about her grandfather and when they escaped from the germans , in 1939 .
leblanc had died shortly after his escape from etretat and we hoped mrs leblanc would be able to shed light on his final days .
however , the topic we wanted to discuss was taboo around the house .
we had to proceed delicately .
we parked in the lot and got out of the porsche , walking hand in hand .
her mother was at the leblanc villa counter , looking relieved .
well , well , well .
my missing daughter is finally here to take over the desk . ''
mrs leblanc came around the counter and hugged raymonde tightly .
i was worried .
you were gone so long , without leaving a note , '' mrs leblanc said tenderly .
she turned to me , a knowing look in her eyes .
young man , i saw you holding my daughter 's hand .
come here . ''
i approached her , not knowing what to expect .
she held my face with her steady hands and kissed me once on each cheek , both of which reddened immediately .
welcome to our home , paul sirenne . ''
i reciprocated .
thank you .
i will keep an eye on her for you . ''
you had better .
and i will be keeping my eyes on the both of you .
now you can tell me how this romance has come about .
no , actually , go on up to my private room .
i will finish here and join you in five minutes .
off you go . ''
at the very end of the second floor hallway was a door , which raymonde opened .
we walked into a spacious sitting room .
off to the left was a large bedroom and on the right , a tiny bathroom .
we sat down on a small love seat .
i was suddenly pressed up against raymonde .
i like this sofa , do n't you ? ''
she said innocently .
yes .
it 's very , uhm , very cozy . ''
that is what i thought .
cozy , '' she said , her eyes smouldering .
do you think your mother will be up soon ? ''
she slapped me lightly , a fleeting smile on her lips .
spoilsport . ''
as i smiled back , i realised her mother might reveal key information .
i just could n't conceive of not recording it .
i pulled out my glasses once more , trying to slip them on surreptitiously .
why are you putting on those ugly glasses again ? ''
i , uhm , i will need them to see your mother clearly .
what 's the problem ?
they do n't look that bad , do they ? ''
i 'm sorry to say this but it 's for your own good .
you do n't look good in those glasses .
not at all . ''
keeping the camera in the eyeglasses thing a secret might not have been a good idea .
at least , my friends had n't tried to connect as soon as the glasses were turned on .
i understand , raymonde , but it 's important i not miss a single nuance of your mother 's expressions . ''
she maintained a doubtful look but was prevented from arguing further by her mother , who came in through the door , another case of excellent timing .
sorry my dears , it took longer than expected , '' she apologized , seating herself in a comfortable looking red chair , her eyes briefly glancing at my glasses .
now let 's start at the beginning .
what happened this morning ?
how did you two meet ? ''
mrs leblanc had gone right for the jugular .
raymonde was quick to respond .
you remember last night , when you first introduced me to paul ?
yes ?
well , a little later , i went out of my room when he was coming out of his .
he was bothered , explaining about a letter he had seen on the desk , when he was in grand papa 's office .
he thought he knew who the author of that letter was , so i brought him back to the office to look at it again .
we confirmed he was right and decided to talk about it over breakfast . ''
who wrote the letter ? ''
it was adolf hitler , mrs leblanc . ''
if i had been expecting a big reaction , i was disappointed .
adolf hitler ?
how curious .
what happened after that ? ''
while we were eating , paul noticed a man at a table next to ours , spying on us .
he had followed paul here from the mairie , after refusing him access to old town documents .
we left quickly to get away from him .
that was why i did n't leave you a note . ''
i know who you 're talking about .
it 's jacques vallin . ''
excuse me , but did you say vallin ? ''
i asked .
yes , one of two , unfortunately , and not a thought between the both of them .
two brothers , one small , the other large , neither exactly honest , '' she answered .
i wondered why he rented a room here last night .
after all , he lives just down the road . ''
what was a vallin doing following me ?
he knew something .
despite the span of time , this descendant of old man vallin had placed himself in the exact position to effect his own research .
this vallin name is familiar .
in 1911 , someone killed his ancestor , old man vallin .
it can not be coincidence that , almost a hundred years later , his great grandson is actively pursuing his own quest to uncover the etretat mystery .
that is why we must ask you what happened when the germans invaded etretat and you were forced to escape with your grandfather . ''
raymonde looked a little nervous when i broached the subject so directly but her mother took it calmly .
it is all right , raymonde .
i know you tread lightly where certain topics are concerned .
however , i am not as fragile as you might think .
for many years , i have reviewed those dreadful events .
you must understand , i was very young and do n't remember anything clearly , though i was aware something bad was going on .
people were scared , angry !
papa was gone , had been gone for a while , and grand papa was taking care of my sister and me .
one day , grand papa was there with a small valise for himself and an even smaller one for both of us .
we threw in a few things , my favourite blanket , my sister 's teddy bear , and some clothes .
grand papa was crying and trying to hide it .
my sister and i were very scared .
we stayed quiet and did as we were told .
grand papa took us to a man waiting with a horse and wagon .
i did n't know his name but i had seen him before .
we got on the wagon .
'we are going on a little trip to visit some friends ' , grand papa said .
he gave us cookies and goat milk .
along the road , we saw hundreds of people walking , carrying everything they owned on their shoulders , in their bags , their suitcases , their boxes .
many were crying openly .
both my sister and i were crying .
grand papa hugged us a lot and tried to make us feel better .
no fires were allowed at night and we often travelled in the dark , staying on narrow roads in forested areas .
i heard some bombs far away once , and , on another occasion , a plane swooped right over , having come up from behind .
finally , after many days we arrived in perpignan .
grand papa shook the driver 's hand for a long time , saying a few words to him .
i never saw the driver again .
we walked the rest of the way , grand papa leading us by the hand until we arrived at a tall house on the outskirts of perpignan .
that is where we stayed until he died , '' she said , her eyes far away .
he was unwell , you see , and the long trip had taken its toll .
he hid it well , kept up a brave front for his 'little girls ' .
a few days before the end , he got better , or seemed to .
he left us in the care of our friends and went out for the day , carrying a small leather satchel , much like the one you have , paul .
when he came back , he was very tired and did not have the satchel anymore .
that night was the last time i sat with him , by the fireplace in our small apartment .
he looked sad and concerned , saying many things .
not much made sense , not to my five year old mind anyway .
he talked about someone who worried him very much .
something was his fault and he had tried to fix it .
i have only one clear memory of that night .
he took me upon his knee and , holding my two small hands in his , taught me a little song .
he asked me to always remember it and to tell it to my children when the time was right .
i guess this must be that time .
it is a silly song , really , more of a ditty . ''
'the beginning and the end follow the circle , it bends .
the end and the beginning , the answer in the connecting . '
we sang it many times .
he told me one day the song would mean something more , '' she finished , her voice fading away .
her little ditty , the song taught by her grandfather , was exactly the same message from my father .
how had these identical verses travelled the continents , over a century ago , ending up with both our families ?
we need to go to perpignan . ''
why do you say that ? ''
asked raymonde .
it 's the ditty , the song , the beginning is the end .
maurice leblanc 's end was in perpignan so that is where we have to go .
to the place of his end , to see if any clues were left .
i 'm very curious about what he could have done during the day he disappeared .
what was in the satchel he took with him ?
why did he choose perpignan as a destination ? ''
mrs leblanc had an insight .
i might shed some light on a few of those questions .
during that time , everything was chaos .
there were few places safe from the invading germans .
perpignan was close to spain and relatively unimportant strategically .
perpignan was also home to several of grand papa 's old friends .
on the day he left , he may have gone to visit one of them , to pass on the satchel .
it contained a journal of some sort .
i have memories of grand papa leaning over a sheaf of papers by the dim light of a candle .
i do not know who he could have gone to visit , unfortunately .
i only know the address where we lived in perpignan . ''
she picked up a pad of notepaper and jotted down an address .
there is a chance someone may remember him .
he was famous enough in his time .
now i am afraid i will have to bid you both a good night , as i am feeling tired , '' she said , her voice shaky .
she hugged us tightly and we agreed to meet for breakfast in the morning .
walking along the hallway , it became apparent raymonde was leading me to her room .
my glasses suddenly squeaked and i was looking at fabian coulter .
hey , paul , where have you been ?
we 've been trying to connect with you .
say , who 's that walking ahead of you ?
she looks familiar . ''
i reached up and turned the techno glasses off without saying a single word .
this situation was complicated enough .
i removed the glasses and slipped them into my pocket as raymonde opened her door .
the room was similar to my own , with a large bed against the wall to the left of the door .
an alcove with large windows nestled two chairs and a small coffee table .
we sat down there .
this has certainly been an eventful day . ''
she smiled , her whole face lighting up .
i feel as if i am in a whirlwind but that is the way i like it .
and the way i like you , '' she added , her hand reaching out to grasp mine .
i must ask you something . ''
she peered questioningly into my eyes and i nodded .
when maman told us about grand papa 's little song , i thought you were holding something back .
were you ? ''
how had she picked that up ?
yes , i did hold something back .
if you remember , i explained about the note my father gave me when i was nine .
i may not have told you the exact wording of that note but don t worry , i do n't have to tell you , because your mother just told us . ''
raymonde was stunned .
that 's right .
impossibly , that little ditty found its way into our two separate families , almost a hundred years ago .
when you and i were walking together at the fort of frefosse site , i believed my father 's gift had led me to you but now , i 'm not so sure .
how could that ditty have come to be in both our families ?
i did n't want to burden your mother with that question .
it would have been too much .
she already looked shaken , despite her strong words . ''
raymonde walked around the small table and pulled me into her arms .
we kissed , a long lingering kiss , filled with passion .
that was a nice thing to do .
i had to say thank you somehow , '' she whispered .
she moved to her bed , leaning back into the pillows .
you were n't thinking of going back to your room right away , were you ? ''
uhm , no , not at all . ''
i lay down on the bed , my body close to hers .
i leaned on my right arm , looking down at her , then bent down and kissed her again , with a yearning growing by the second .
no matter what else might come , i had already found my true treasure .
i woke next morning , vivid flashes of the entire night running through my mind .
i felt rested , though i had not slept many hours .
raymonde was lying next to me , still sleeping .
i could n't believe i had ended up here , with her .
she stirred , waking up .
pulling an arm out from under the sheet , she touched my chest tenderly .
good morning , '' she said , a bit shyly .
i 'm glad you stayed the night . ''
i 'm not sure i had any choice .
you were irresistible .
i certainly did n't expect for things to develop this quickly but i 'm happy they did . ''
me too .
i have never been attracted to anyone so rapidly before .
you are not the type of man i am used to .
you are quite odd , you know .
the funny thing is that i like it .
i do n't know where this is going between us ... '' do n't worry about that .
how about we simply focus on this mystery ?
let 's not make it too complicated .
i know i 'm extremely happy being here and want to spend as much time with you as possible . ''
i could n't have said it better .
now let 's get showered , we have to meet maman downstairs soon . ''
raymonde slid out from the sheets , slipping a bathrobe over her voluptuous body , and headed for the shower .
i collected my clothes , intent on going to my room , perhaps to update my friends on the internet .
her voice stopped me as i passed the bathroom .
and just where do you think you are going ?
are n't you coming in for a shower ? ''
on second thought , perhaps i could leave my internet friends to stew in their ignorance a little bit longer .
after our breakfast , raymonde 's mother joined us for coffee , having been delayed by work at the front desk .
her knowing eye noticed our little looks and touches and she drew the obvious conclusion .
after a short conversation , it was time to leave for perpignan .
we said our good byes and headed off .
i still had not found a single moment to update my friends back home , having been without privacy since last night .
i was n't complaining but my three nosy friends were likely to be full of time taking questions , time i did not have .
they would simply have to wait .
i would connect with them as soon as i could .
additionally , raymonde was getting suspicious of my glasses .
her comments about my 'dorky ' appearance did n't fool me for a second .
she knew something was up and i had to be extremely careful not to be found out .
this tiny little deception was producing some seriously unanticipated complications .
now , all i could do was to follow through and hope for the best .
we took off down the rue de maupassant , setting the gps destination to orleans , planning to travel directly across france towards perpignan .
i set the cruise control at a leisurely hundred and ten kilometre an hour , following the directions on the screen .
while travelling , raymonde 's conversation drifted from small talk to a more serious topic .
i feel so strange , travelling with a man i did not know a few days ago , now my lover , heading toward the very thing i came back to confront .
everything feels like it is changing .
i am a little afraid but not enough to stop myself from going on . ''
i know what you mean .
for me , it started a few weeks ago , when my father was murdered .
since then , my entire life has been turned upside down .
before this , i have been an armchair sort of person , thinking and reading about the world rather than going out and touching it .
all my life i 've felt as if i were hiding in a cave .
only now am i discovering how much i have missed in the real world . ''
her hand tenderly touched my shoulder .
i am glad you waited until now .
i would surely have missed you otherwise .
still , the whole situation is a little strange , do you not think ?
there are so many mysteries , it is difficult to see the situation clearly , '' with every step we take , i am more convinced this is just a glimpse of what is really going on .
i can only hope the little ditty holds the key . ''
while talking , i reached down and pulled out my glasses .
this conversation was important .
i squinted at the road when i put them on , surreptitiously pressing the record button .
i noticed her frown and a slight biting of her lower lip but she remained uncharacteristically quiet .
my squinting must have been better than i thought .
unfortunately , i had forgotten about coulter 's programming skills .
he had left a monitoring program running , which alerted him as soon as i turned the glasses on .
his dishevelled face suddenly appeared in front of my eyes , causing me to swerve sharply .
i corrected quickly but not quickly enough to evade raymonde 's sharp sarcasm .
apparently , the glasses do not improve your driving .
is everything all right ? ''
she asked coyly .
i was n't fooled , not for a second .
finally , you 're online .
the others will be on in a sec , i 've just flagged them .
we need to talk , '' coulter said i froze .
i had to answer both questions without letting on i was doing exactly that .
uh , everything 's fine , thanks , '' i coughed , trying to sound hoarse .
ca n't , uhm , ca n't talk right now . ''
jonathan briar came online , complicating the situation even more .
the screen split automatically into two smaller images , another display improvement by coulter .
briar looked irritated .
would you like some water ? ''
i looked at raymonde and nodded silently , desperately .
as she leaned back , reaching for a bag on the minuscule back seat , briar spoke up .
finally , my boy , you are online .
it 's been a while .
we have much to review and little time to do it in .
you have provided us with such excellent material and we have n't had the chance to ... '' briar stopped in mid sentence when coulter jumped in .
hey , briar , glad to see you .
sirenne seems to be in a bind and wants us to be quiet . ''
i could have strangled coulter .
instead , i quietly accepted the water bottle from raymonde and drank a gulp , taking my time swallowing .
briar was unhappy and getting vocal about it .
he what ?
this will simply not do . ''
the screen changed into an oval , with a sleepy o'flanahan appearing in the top section .
i was finding it difficult to keep my eyes on the road .
what 's going on ?
this darn computer wo n't stop buzzing .
what 's the emergency ? ''
i drank another slow gulp of water .
by now , raymonde was looking at me eagle eyed .
briar took control of the conversation .
enough of this .
my boy , listen to me , this ridiculous situation has gone on long enough .
we are grown men , trying to solve a complex mystery , egged on by a brutal killer , who murdered your parents let us not forget , a common goal requiring our valuable time and serious expense .
but are we solving our mystery ?
no , we are not .
instead , we are staying quiet , because one of us ... '' he means you , sirenne . ''
be quiet , coulter , do n't interrupt me , because you , '' briar pointed right at the camera .
you have elected to keep this a secret in an elaborate attempt to turn this crucial collaboration into a total farce . ''
briar 's face was apoplectic .
i was sorely tempted to reply , stopped only by the fact that i was sitting in a car , supposedly alone with raymonde .
paul , you seem a little distant ?
are you all right ? ''
she asked .
o'flanahan was laughing at briar 's last explosion .
come on , briar , give sirenne a break . ''
no sir .
it is time to end this .
either mister sirenne speaks now or i leave this idiotic group and go on to more productive pursuits . ''
aw , come on , you do n't mean that ! ''
coulter said .
paul ?
are you going to answer me ? ''
raymonde asked again .
i had four people talking and i was trying to drive , not to mention drinking a lot of water .
i needed to find a way to answer everyone at the same time and keep the deception going .
just a second , i 'm busy . ''
as soon as i uttered the words , i wished i could pull them out of the air and pop them back into my mouth .
what had sounded reasonable only an instant before , now seemed completely inappropriate .
briar stopped talking , raymonde 's face grew red , her eyes flashing , and o'flanahan gasped aloud .
he blew it .
sirenne blew it with the dame .
be quiet everybody , i want to hear what happens next . ''
the worse thing was not being able to tell my friends anything as they rambled on and on , messing everything up .
raymonde 's mouth tightened and she said , in a strangely neutral tone .
what do you mean 'you are busy ' ?
doing what ?
what is keeping you so busy ? ''
my stomach tightened as o'flanahan laughed some more .
yes , i know , but , i meant something else , uhm ... '' i was feeling incredibly guilty .
moments stretched into eternity .
as i wallowed in my guilt , i saw something enter into her eyes , a glimmer of understanding .
stop this car . ''
right here ?
do n't you think we should ... '' stop the car , right now .
park right over there , '' she ordered , pointing at a wide shoulder coming up .
i had no choice but to obey , dreading her next statement .
ever since we met , there was something odd about you .
now it has become clear to me .
that 's right , pull up right here .
i would have to say i first became suspicious when you put your glasses on when we went to talk with maman .
no matter what you said , i knew you had some other reason for putting on those ridiculous glasses .
people wear glasses to see far or to see close .
you put them on for both of those reasons .
therefore , you do not wear your glasses to see better , you wear them for some other reason .
the reason you looked distracted and were too 'busy ' , is that you were distracted and busy .
get out of the car , '' she ordered flatly .
she got out herself and stood there waiting , her arms crossed .
superimposed over her , i could see my three friends , hanging on her every word , as if they were watching the best soap opera .
good luck , paul , '' coulter said in sympathy .
yeah , good luck .
you 're going to need it , pal , he he he , '' o'flanahan added .
about time , i would say .
just rewards and all that , my boy , '' briar said , waxing the moral authority .
thanks for everything guys , '' i whispered , trying to inject , in those simple words , as much sarcasm as was humanly possible .
i opened my door and walked around the car , coming to a stop in front of raymonde , looking at her sheepishly .
give me your glasses right now . ''
what ?
you ca n't be ... '' be quiet and give me your glasses . ''
i removed them , catching a last glimpse of a grinning o'flanahan waving goodbye .
she took them gingerly , surprised by their weight .
examining them from all angles , she finally caught sight of the miniature view screen and , glaring at me in victory , put the glasses on .
she stood for a second , somewhat bemused , until finally , she spoke uhm , hello ? ''
she fell quiet , listening to the three traitors .
she nodded her head and smiled , then laughed aloud .
i realised the guys probably had a full frontal view of me in my abject misery .
well , my name 's raymonde .
i am the daughter of victoire leblanc , and you are ? ''
she continued her one sided conversation while walking away , leaving me to my own thoughts .
she was so vibrant , so beautiful .
i truly loved her .
for whatever reason , i had been led to this woman and i was not going to lose her because of a pair of glasses .
she had finished her conversation with my team and was walking back , taking off the glasses .
she looked better without them .
she also looked upset .
raymonde , before you say anything , please listen .
i know i lied .
it was a big mistake .
it started with o'flanahan and the airplane thing which i could n't explain because i might lose your trust . ''
her nostrils flared at first , i could n't tell you for fear you might not talk to me again and later , i could n't find the right moment to explain . ''
she held up her hand , motioning me into silence .
enough !
stop these excuses .
what you did was wrong .
you lied and things got complicated but it 's because you lied in the first place . ''
i dejectedly kicked at the gravel with my left foot .
i am really sorry .
i admit i made the wrong choice .
however , i promise i wo n't make that type of choice again .
i do n't want to lose you .
i ...
i ca n't lose you . ''
her eyes stayed hard for a moment then softened .
the smallest of smiles graced her lips .
all right then .
we have wasted enough time on this .
it seems your friends have information to share but it will have to wait .
for now , i want you to show me how to turn these off , '' she asked , lifting the glasses .
i pointed at the small button , which she pressed .
the miniature screen faded away .
i 'm keeping these .
i want you to stop in orleans .
i 'll direct you when we get there .
now , before we go ... '' she gave me a long kiss and we embraced .
after what seemed forever , we separated , both feeling much better .
getting into the car , i noticed another stopped vehicle , an old beat up truck .
two men , one tall , one short , were working on the engine .
i drove off towards orleans .
i had decided to connect to the a13 and cross the seine near lillebonne , since we had come across that small town in our research .
after the ferry crossing , the road followed the river meandering across the landscape .
when the road cut into the side of a rocky hill , i noticed the beat up truck again , coming up fast .
checking my rear view mirror , i identified the two people in the cab .
raymonde , we 're being followed .
it 's the vallin brothers . ''
the truck edged closer , enough to hear its engine whining .
ca n't you go any faster in this thing ? ''
i pressed on the gas and the porsche accelerated , outdistancing them quickly .
they would n't be able to keep up .
the driver put his arm out of the window .
he was holding a gun .
a shot rang out , sounding like an explosion , quickly followed by another , and my side mirror blew off its mount , sending glass shards into the back of my hand .
i lost control of the porsche , veering sharply to the right , the car careening dangerously close to the cliff wall .
i jerked the steering to the left , the car fishtailed and we drove off the road .
sliding onto the gravel shoulder , the car headed straight down the bank of a steep , rocky hill .
a wire fence , no match for our speeding vehicle , snapped apart with a screeching sound .
everything was rattling in the car .
raymonde held on for dear life while i desperately tried to steer , feeling like some insane slalom skier .
several boulders directly ahead would finish us for sure .
i pulled on the emergency brake , sending the back wheels into a slide .
turning left , i released the brake , floored the accelerator , and we shot sideways , missing the boulders by centimetres .
a narrow bend in the river was now directly in front , a dirt road beyond .
we might make it over the narrowest part , if we went faster .
i pushed the gas pedal to the floor .
the car jumped forward and smashed over a small bump , sending us flying .
hitting the river surface , we skimmed the last part .
the wheels hit the bank , finding traction .
a massive burst of acceleration gave us enough momentum to reach the dirt road .
i hit the emergency brakes and we skidded sideways , rocking to a standstill .
dust was all around , little clicks and clacks coming from the engine .
it turned over two more times and rattled to a stop .
raymonde was gulping big breaths , her hands tightly clasped to the edges of her seat .
i take it all back .
that was incredible driving .
how did you know there was a road down here ? ''
i stopped my finger from trembling long enough to point at the gps display .
nothing to it , my dear .
all in a day 's work , '' i opened my door and got out on shaky legs , hurrying to the other side to help raymonde out .
holding on to her , i examined the skid marks in the grass and gravel .
i had somehow taken the only path possible to survive .
we had been very lucky .
peering at the top of the hill , i saw the edge of the road , where two men stood , looking down .
instinctively , i waved and smiled , dusting off my arms and legs .
i was fairly sure we were out of firing range .
the car still looked functional .
the frame was n't bent and the engine was in running order .
the rental company might not be too happy about the dents and scratches but who cared about that ?
we were alive .
getting back into the car , we headed to orleans , sticking to back roads , to avoid our would be followers .
the vallins had shot at us and i had no idea why .
the developing relationship with raymonde had made me forget how dangerous our pursuit really was .
i vowed to be more careful .
arriving in orleans , i drove to an electronics store , as directed by raymonde .
i waited outside until she was done her mystery shopping .
my credit card safely back in my pocket , she insisted we have supper .
we ended up at a small bistro .
she ordered trout and i followed suit .
the waiter came back with our wine and i made a fuss , insisting to sniff the cork and fill her glass .
to our future .
may there be less excitement in it . ''
she laughed and clinked her glass against mine , adding simply to us . ''
after our meal , we rented a room in a small pension , near the bistro .
collapsing into bed , we fell asleep within moments .
i woke at some point in the night , her body rubbing against me .
her hazel eyes were open , looking deeply into mine .
we made love slowly , with the strongest passion i had ever felt .
then we fell asleep again , this time in each other 's arms .
chapter 8 leblanc 's hidden message next morning , we sat at the small breakfast table in our room , sipping coffee .
she got up and returned with two things .
a bag and my glasses .
this is for lying . ''
she snapped my glasses in two .
my heart jumped .
my glasses !
she reached out and patted my hand .
there , there , now you 've learned your lesson .
it 's all over .
now for the surprise . ''
she pulled out a gift wrapped package from the bag .
this is for you . ''
as i opened the wrapped box , she explained .
your friend fabian coulter helped me with this .
they were supportive of you , when i talked to them , you know .
they explained what had been going on and told me some of the things they had discovered .
i realised we both needed to work with your friends if we were truly serious about figuring this thing out , and there was no way i was going to wear those ugly glasses for one more second than necessary .
so i had your friend check online for the closest place where i could buy some better looking glasses , in a matching style , of course . ''
wrapping paper removed , i opened my box , pulling out a brand new pair of sleek glasses .
raymonde had a pair almost the same , except more feminine .
she put them on .
style made a difference after all .
when i put on mine , she nodded .
much better , paul , '' she laughed .
much better ! ''
i checked myself out in the mirror .
at least the 'dork ' look was gone .
we were soon underway and this time , the miles flew by .
we stayed on the main roads , certain we were not being followed .
as i drove , we each put on our glasses and activated them .
within moments , the guys connected , all of them smiling .
gentlemen , you are on time , '' said raymonde .
she had planned everything !
jonathan briar was the first to speak .
he could never resist the opportunity to pontificate .
it is an honour to finally talk with you officially , my dear .
i must say your presence has us all excited . ''
o'flanahan tactlessly interrupted him why is your side view mirror broken ? ''
i briefly explained yesterday 's events .
although concerned , o'flanahan 's main regret was that i had not been recording with the glasses when i went over the hill .
we all agreed things were getting serious .
after that , we began discussing in earnest , coulter leading the fray .
i have to show you some video for a second .
hold on while i call it up .
here it is . ''
the screen changed to someone walking along in an airplane .
it was me .
this was the video from my flight to france , just as i returned from stretching my legs .
the video froze while i was looking to the rear of the cabin .
i 'm sure you all remember this scene .
let me paste this picture next to it .
it 's from a car commercial .
the man you see in it , the announcer , is harry stiles . ''
the pasted image showed a thick man , with thinning white hair and a florid nose .
coulter continued .
now , if you would look at the centre aisle and count seven rows behind miss raymonde .
examine the man sitting in the first seat on the right . ''
it was harry stiles !
that can only mean one thing .
we are looking at the shadow killer , '' i said .
coulter nodded .
now you get it .
if stiles is dead , the man in his seat must be the shadow killer .
let me see if i ca n't zoom in on his face . ''
the image jumped forward , giving us a grainy face , out of focus .
coulter continued fiddling with his controls and the image clarified .
look at that nose .
and the hair .
it 's damn near perfect .
what do you think , briar ? ''
asked o'flanahan .
.he did a pretty good job on his disguise , eh ? ''
yes , he did , o'flanahan .
he did an excellent job , in fact , '' agreed briar .
the images vanished and the faces of my three friends returned .
briar appeared annoyed at o'flanahan 's comment .
who could blame him ?
o'flanahan was annoying .
this confirms norton 's story .
the shadow killer took stiles ' place on the plane , after prodding sirenne with the murder of his parents , '' continued briar .
the shadow killer is obviously great at planning and disguises , '' i replied .
that is what i 've been wondering about .
i 've done some research , looking into inspector norton 's history .
it seems he 's had a chequered past .
since the death of his sister , he has claimed to be on the trail of the elusive shadow killer , doing most of the detective work on his own time .
it seems his superiors do n't necessarily share his belief in the existence of his serial killer .
furthermore , my contacts inform me inspector norton has just been suspended for dereliction of duty .
he has gone missing after your parents ' murders . ''
what are you trying to say briar ? ''
asked o'flanahan in a dubious tone .
do you think norton is the shadow killer ? ''
it is a possibility that must be considered .
his behaviour with paul has been most bizarre and he was in ottawa at the time of the murders .
you must admit it is quite a coincidence . ''
damn it all briar , the man 's a cop , not a killer .
heck , the killer even murdered norton 's sister , '' argued o'flanahan , never one to let go .
unless norton killed her too .
what if that was his first murder and he 's been killing ever since . ''
come on guys , this is going nowhere .
maybe norton is the shadow killer but how would we know ?
we 're not cops .
we should look at facts , not theories , '' coulter is right .
although norton does n't exactly inspire confidence , right now , we are under pressure to come up with some answers and we 've got to do it before someone else shoots at us , '' i said .
you know , when we started , we had just one sentence at the bottom of a forgotten book .
now we have almost too much information , '' briar said .
the strangest thing in our possession must be the letter from adolf hitler .
no matter which way we look at it , it 's real .
the letter 's contents have also presented a new question what could hitler have come across , in architecture or art , which would have led him to etretat ?
it has to be the fort .
this is why i have been attempting to deepen my knowledge about the archaeological history of the area . ''
briar had been busy .
unfortunately , most of my research was stymied by a curious lack of information .
i asked coulter to look into it and he came up with some disturbing information , which he will share in a few moments .
however , my efforts were not completely in vain .
i did discover a few items of interest .
the first is there was not one fort in etretat but two .
on the other side of etretat , on the amont cliff , there is an ancient church .
behind that church are ruins , the remains of a roman garrison .
these ruins are of the same period as those of the fort of frefosse .
it is also the location of several remaining underground tunnels .
the problem is romans never built two forts in one town .
it was too expensive .
someone with a personal interest must have pushed for the building of the fort .
i believe it had to be for smuggling or piracy .
whoever built the fort placed it in a useless position for defense or attack .
there had to be another reason for its position and a cave entrance seems the likely answer .
the question is what benefit could such a cave have for anyone ?
it would be fairly useless , unless it had a secret opening to the sea . ''
briar was making sense .
he continued what if there was a hidden harbour with a passage through the cave to the fort above ?
a whole community of smugglers could live inside the cave with no one knowing .
they would have access to the channel to smuggle goods and a fort to defend the loot .
pirates and smugglers often used secret signs to identify themselves to others .
one of the most interesting is this one . ''
briar 's face vanished , replaced by the photo of a crude symbol , carved in rock a triangle above a rectangle , both inside a circle .
we 've seen those symbols before , on that drawing of frefosse 's dungeon . ''
correct .
move to the head of the class , mr sirenne .
we have seen them before , but so have others .
this sign was carved in many ancient caves in the cliffs along the english channel .
to date , no one has ever explained their presence , although many of the carvings have been dated to a period near 50 ad .
there is a distinct possibility our mr hitler might have come across this symbol in his research .
he might have suspected what it led to a secret den , a cave full of pirated treasure .
leblanc 's hollow needle pointed out a likely location . ''
briar finished .
an excited coulter launched into an extension of briar 's theory we can not forget someone inscribed those very same symbols on a drawing of the fort of frefosse , a drawing which was deliberately hidden .
however , this is not the most alarming information .
allow me to jump back to the other point made by briar , the absence of local archaeological records .
it was unusual to have so little information .
i began working on a program right after briar asked me to check it out .
it was n't long before i had enough data coming in to analyse it .
after a while , a pattern became clear .
let me show you . ''
his face was replaced by a graph .
i was becoming adept at navigating the road while looking directly through a large , transparent screen .
it 's really a very simple analysis .
my search program collected information on the net about research done in france .
from that , i created a graph representing the average amount of information available for any given geographical area .
of course , i adjusted the graph for population density , economic factors , etc .
once done , i derived the amount of information available about etretat and compared it to the general graph . ''
a new graph appeared in red over the previous one .
it was markedly different , showing a much lower curve .
i compared the results with several other areas .
eventually i had to accept there was something anomalous about research information concerning etretat .
so i refined the parameters of my data and came up with this . ''
the graph disappeared , replaced by another , showing several peaks and some noticeable drops .
this graph reveals the specific areas of 'negative ' research causing these anomalous results .
for example , there is no lack of recent economic or touristic information about etretat .
however , geological information relating to the etretat area is conspicuously absent .
its history also contains noticeable periods lacking any information whatsoever . ''
coulter 's face came back on the screen .
a quick check showed yet another unexpected result .
the reason for these anomalous results was the research was missing ! ''
everyone erupted in a clamour .
he explained his conclusion .
when you look at the information we have about a given topic , it is easy to forget much of this research was conducted in the past , perhaps hundreds of years ago .
up to the late 1980 's , the information existed only in forgotten books , slowly rotting away in libraries .
if someone were to plan it properly , during the early part of the twentieth century in particular , one could completely eliminate information about a given subject . ''
there 's a conspiracy about that .
i published a small book about it . ''
coulter ignored o'flanahan and continued .
i checked for periods when the documents might have begun disappearing .
eventually , my search led to professor biermann .
i 'm sure none of you know who he is , probably because he disappeared shortly after the end of the first world war .
i believe this is when the 'etretat brain drain ' started . ''
what started ? ''
i asked .
sorry guys , i just could n't resist saying it .
however , that 's what it was a brain drain .
over a period of about twenty years following the first world war , there were a series of unexplained disappearances all over europe .
it started with experts in one science or another , at first general topics , then gradually , more specifically relating to etretat .
the research itself disappeared from different places , universities , colleges , museums , the list is endless . ''
i guess hitler was busy , '' o'flanahan said .
briar snorted and objected .
oh , it was n't hitler i can assure you .
perhaps hitler wrote a letter to leblanc that evaded historical attention but precious little else has escaped our notice .
hitler 's life has been sifted through a fine tooth comb .
we know exactly where he was and when he was there .
no , if someone was carrying out a secret agenda to destroy information , it was n't him . ''
o'flanahan did n't skip a beat .
that 's excellent .
it means there 's more than one person involved .
that spells 'conspiracy ' , if you ask me . ''
it does seem more likely that hitler directed and another acted in his behalf .
perhaps a hired killer was working in the shadows , '' briar added .
that sounded like the killer after us right now but it could n't be .
these events happened over eighty years ago .
if our shadow killer was the same man , he would be positively geriatric by now .
perhaps they were obtaining information about etretat and hiding the trail at the same time , '' coulter added .
o'flanahan jumped in excitedly that 's it .
you 've hit the nail on the head .
hitler and his hired help completely eradicated information about what lay beneath the fort of frefosse .
beginning with the fort 's destruction in 1911 onward , a concerted effort was made to hide the existence of the caves of etretat .
this is a totally new conspiracy theory and the best part is it could be true !
i am in seventh heaven , '' he exclaimed , grinning from ear to ear .
leblanc must have known about it , '' added coulter , he must have .
i wonder what his role was in all this . ''
i pulled into the driveway and turned off the engine .
thankfully , the porsche had survived the trip .
the brakes vibrated a bit , we heard some rattles here and there , but apart from that , it had been a good ride .
our differences had been ironed out during the voyage .
in particular , raymonde had made it clear she expected some techno glasses rules about privacy .
we had arrived in perpignan about two hours ago .
after renting a motel room , where we showered and ate a small meal , we had headed off to visit the final residence of maurice leblanc .
our glasses were on , we were recording , and everyone was online .
i knocked at the door .
for a moment , we heard nothing , then a series of sounds , which got closer and closer .
they clarified into distinct words 'i 'm coming .
just hold on , i 'll be right there . '
finally , the door opened , revealing a dishevelled woman , with a spot of flour on her left cheek .
her face broke into a wide smile and she welcomed us into the front room , which had been converted into a reception area .
we introduced ourselves .
when the woman heard raymonde 's last name , she grew animated .
oh my lord .
are you related to maurice leblanc the writer ? ''
she asked , her right hand held tight against her chest .
i am his great granddaughter , '' raymonde answered .
that 's unbelievable , '' the woman tittered , did you know that he stayed here ?
in the rooms upstairs on the second floor . ''
the woman leaned forward and whispered conspiratorially he died in the room but we 're not supposed to mention that to our guests , '' she stood back up and returned to a normal tone of voice would you like to see the rooms ?
we normally charge five euros but i guess in your case , i could make an exception , you being family and all .
only two euros . ''
i was n't sure if raymonde was insulted or complimented .
i paid the landlady and we were ushered up the stairs by the overly talkative woman .
she unlocked the room and gave us a few minutes alone .
as soon as the door was closed , raymonde headed towards the fireplace .
she stayed very quiet , looking at an overstuffed easy chair .
this is where my great grandfather sat when he told that ditty to maman , sitting on his knee .
he was right here .
i can almost feel him . ''
she fell silent , sitting down in the big chair , perhaps to be closer to him .
after a short while , she dabbed her eyes with the edge of her sleeve and glanced around the room .
her gaze settled on a small table .
she bent down a little and peered under it .
there 's something there .
something hidden behind that table , on the wall . ''
coulter got on it right away .
i 'm enhancing it .
yes , i can see scratches in the paint .
they are deep . ''
i pulled the table away from the wall , revealing the scratches in their entirety .
they had been painted over but , enhanced by our glasses , we could read two short lines reach a yarn many ought not discover last isolation near dawn of narrative ' what does that nonsense mean ? ''
o'flanahan said , sounding frustrated .
what a stupid clue to leave behind . ''
we put the table back in place and looked around the room for a while longer , finding nothing else .
we thanked the woman for her help and headed back to our motel room .
once there , raymonde and i sat down , our online friends still with us .
coulter displayed a still image of the text on the screen .
what if leblanc were trying to leave a message ?
something that would only make sense if you knew what you were looking for .
that first line seems pretty clear .
i think it means 'if you want to find a story many people should n't know about ' . ''
i would agree with your interpretation . ''
thank you so much , mr briar , '' returned coulter and raymonde laughed .
the second line is a bit more difficult . ''
o'flanahan butted in .
perhaps you should let an expert try his hand at this .
let 's look at the second line a bit closer 'last isolation , near dawn of narrative ' most of it is also fairly clear but the word 'isolation ' is throwing me for a curve .
does n't it mean to hold the heat in or something ? ''
no , not insulation !
isolation .
it 's a totally different word , '' briar argued .
coulter smiled , enjoying o'flanahan 's discomfiture .
isolation means to separate something or someone from the rest of the group .
so last isolation might mean .
last separation ?
no that does n't sound quite right .
wait , maybe it means to retire or to die .
last retirement ?
final retirement near dawn of narrative ?
whose retirement ? ''
briar continued .
i might have an idea about that , '' coulter said .
raymonde , when your mother talked about coming to perpignan , she said some of leblanc 's friend might be living here .
many people ran to perpignan while escaping from the germans .
leblanc was not the first to come here , nor was he the last .
earlier , i obtained the registry of people living in etretat during the twenties , thirties and forties .
what if i compared it to perpignan 's registry of the same period , to see if there are any names in common ?
let me try that . ''
we waited for a while as his computer collated the results .
hey guys , guess whose name just popped up ? ''
coulter asked .
i think i have an answer to that .
it 's , uhm , wait , is it raymond lindon ? ''
coulter looked stunned .
why yes it is , briar .
how in the world did you guess that ? ''
i was puzzled about the word 'isolation ' in leblanc 's second sentence .
if he meant retirement , why did n't he say retirement ?
the whole thing seemed contrived as if leblanc was trying to fit a message into a formula .
leblanc 's books were full of codes .
i wondered what type of code could apply here .
going back to the word 'isolation ' , i tried simple codes , my first attempt being to look at the first letter of each word and that , my friends , gives you r.a.y.m.o.n.d .
on the first line and l.i.n.d.o.n .
on the second , '' briar glibly explained .
i was impressed .
that was quick thinking .
so now , we had two sources of information , both implicating raymond lindon .
coulter gathered online information about this intriguing man .
we were surprised to learn he was jewish .
he had been forced to assign a deputy mayor during the nazi invasion and had moved to perpignan for the period .
after the war ended , he returned to etretat and resumed his post , continuing as mayor for many years , eventually retiring to a small place called ambrumesy .
i know ambrumesy .
it is where the hollow needle story begins , in the castle of ambrumesy ! ''
exclaimed raymonde excitedly .
her words brought everything into sharp relief .
lindon retired near the beginning of the story that began everything .
ambrumesy is directly connected to the hollow needle .
that 's what the second line means .
we have to go to ambrumesy and visit lindon 's final home .
that is where we will discover what we seek . ''
it 's just like the little ditty .
the end and the beginning come together once again .
it 's so ingenious .
only someone who already knew what they were looking for could figure out that message .
my great grandfather left us a message after all .
we must heed it , '' raymonde exclaimed .
i could have said the exact same words .
ambrumesy was difficult to find .
it was so small , it was n't on the regular maps .
the gps finally located it near dieppe .
it had a castle and the ruins of an abbey .
once a home to monks , the castle was destroyed after the revolution .
it had since been repaired and returned to its former glory .
we planned the most direct route and got on the road early next morning , arriving late in the evening , as the sun was beginning to set .
we both felt certain something was waiting here and neither of us would leave until we found it .
raymond lindon had purchased the castle in the 1950 's .
before his death , he had set up a trust fund to protect the castle and keep it in a good state of repair .
lindon 's castle was directly related to the clue left in perpignan by leblanc .
the two men had to have been working together .
the castle was now a museum and tourist attraction .
no one lived in it , except for a grounds keeper .
it was closed by the time we arrived , so raymonde and i walked the garden paths , looking for anything out of the ordinary .
i had thought to call my friends but raymonde prevented me .
no , paul , this moment should be only for us .
our great grandfathers planned this .
their efforts deserve respect and privacy . ''
no o'flanahan nonsense . ''
yes .
just us . ''
we walked in silence , holding hands .
that fountain !
it 's in the story .
and the chapel , over there , hidden in the castle 's shadows , it 's in the story too .
come on , let 's go look , '' raymonde exclaimed .
she ran around the large circular fountain and followed a circuitous gravel path through a maze of short hedges .
i ran after her , joining her as she reached the ancient chapel .
despite its age , it was in excellent condition .
we entered the main chamber and walked down the middle aisle , between two rows of stone pews .
the altar was ornate , with decorative carvings covering its entire surface .
there were two rooms adjoining the main chamber , one on each side of the altar .
we entered the first to find a small baptismal pool and a confessional area .
the other room was a small mausoleum , with plaques imbedded into the three walls , each bearing a name and date , none of which i recognised .
in the centre of the room was an elaborately carved sarcophagus .
i searched for a name plaque but found none , which i thought curious .
i examined the coffin 's carvings but they were rather generic in topic .
the only exception was on the back of the coffin 's base , where i found a circular image carved into the stone a snake eating its tail .
if anything defines the phrase 'the end and the beginning ' , this would be it . ''
raymonde nodded .
remember what maman 's ditty said . ''
the beginning and the end , follow the circle , it bends .
the end and the beginning , the answer in the connecting . ''
it suggests we 'follow the circle ' .
let 's try that , '' raymonde suggested .
she touched the snake carving .
hesitatingly , she slid her index finger along the edge of the circle in a clockwise direction .
she pulled her finger back with a start .
it moved ! ''
no way . ''
i tell you , it moved . ''
try it again . ''
she replaced her finger on the edge of the circle and repeated the sliding motion around the stone circle .
the entire circle of stone oscillated slightly with each rotation of her hand .
she applied more pressure , sliding her finger along the back of the carved snake .
abruptly , the whole circle moved inward a half inch .
i think it 's like a loose screw in a big hole .
your oscillations are making it jump its grooves .
slide your fingers in the other direction , counter clockwise , then push it and let it go , '' she looked baffled but i motioned her on .
go ahead .
try it .
it will make sense when you do it . ''
the first time she tried , her timing was wrong and the circle did nothing but oscillate .
with the second attempt , her timing was perfect .
the disk oscillated and popped out a centimetre , now flush with the surface of the coffin base again .
yes !
i knew it .
that 's it , do it again . ''
she slid her finger around , pressing and letting go , and it popped out again .
excited , she went faster but lost the rhythm .
slowing down , she did it more carefully .
the disk popped out more and more until , finally , a rock cylinder sprang out and fell to the floor , followed by a thick , coiled spring .
we looked in the exposed hole but there was nothing else .
i picked up the cylinder .
it was not as heavy as i would have expected , about forty five centimetres long and almost twenty five centimetres in diameter .
i think this thing is hollow . ''
i shook it .
something slid around inside .
i heard the crunch of footsteps on the path outside the chapel .
ducking down behind the coffin base , i peeked over the top , keeping my head low .
a man was approaching , walking slowly .
it was norton .
he had a pistol in his hand and was standing at the chapel 's entrance .
dropping back down , i whispered to raymonde .
stay low .
we 'll try to sneak out when he goes to check the other room . ''
what if he comes here first ? ''
it 's a fifty fifty chance .
i hope the odds are in our favour for once .
shhh , he 's moving . ''
norton had to know we were here .
our car was in the castle 's parking lot .
my question was how had he known we were here in the first place ?
i had no answers and we were running out of time .
luck was with us .
norton walked into the baptismal chamber .
it was now or never .
picking up the rock cylinder , we sneaked out , sliding along the wall .
norton reached the back of the baptismal chamber and turned around , looking me straight in the eyes .
we broke into a run , raymonde passing me , as i lumbered on , the stone cylinder slowing me down .
a shot rang out and a chunk of stone broke off the fountain .
stop where you are .
my next bullet will not miss . ''
we both froze in our tracks .
wise choice .
i am an excellent shot .
now turn around . ''
i did as he asked , still holding the stone cylinder in my arms .
norton , twenty yards away , was approaching calmly , his pistol held straight , a smug look on his face .
how did you find us so quickly ? ''
i placed a gps tracking device in the boot of your car , you idiot .
you ca n't get away from me that easily .
who do you think you are ?
james bond ?
ha !
you make me laugh , sirenne .
you 're so pathetic , so gullible .
i knew you were lying , right from the start .
i just had to follow you until it was time to reel you in .
well , the time has come .
give me that cylinder ! ''
i began walking towards him .
he jerked his pistol in my direction slowly now , this pistol has a hair trigger . ''
i made it seem as if i was having trouble holding on to the cylinder , exaggerating its weight .
by the time i reached him , it was almost slipping out of my arms .
i jostled it , apparently trying to lift it up , while , in fact , allowing it to slip .
watch out , you fool ! ''
screamed norton .
i gave the cylinder an extra push and it flipped out of my hands , falling heavily onto its intended target .
norton 's left foot !
norton let go a bellow of pain , forgetting everything else for a single moment , the moment i had been waiting for .
i slapped at his right hand , sending the pistol flying .
bringing my hand back and balling it into a tight fist , i hit him with the hardest roundhouse i could muster , putting all my anger and frustration over the murders into it .
my rigid fist hit his screaming jaw like a brick .
norton flew back , his body flopping loosely against a hedge .
knocked unconscious , he slid to the ground , his swollen foot pinned beneath the stone cylinder .
raymonde rushed to my side , her eyes wide .
that was amazing , paul .
are you all right ?
is he all right ? ''
i damn well hope not ! ''
i exclaimed , trying to slow my racing heart .
i lifted the cylinder from his foot , straightening out the man 's leg .
the foot was swollen .
i searched him and found his wallet , which i kept just to give the guy more trouble .
i retrieved his pistol and found two spare clips in his jacket pocket .
i also found a pair of handcuffs and used them on him , throwing the key in the fountain .
his foot is very bad .
i think the cylinder might have broken something , '' raymonde noted .
no wallet , no gun , broken foot , and no key for the handcuffs .
not a good day for norton .
he would have a lot of trouble coming after us .
i did n't know if i was doing the right thing , leaving norton alive but i had trouble believing he was the shadow killer , no matter what briar said .
he was too pathetic .
as well , i was n't a killer .
picking up the stone cylinder , we returned to the porsche .
i found the gps tracking device norton had placed in my tire well .
i threw it on the ground , crushing it with the heel of my shoe .
noticing norton 's car , i popped the hood and yanked out the distributor cap , tossing it over the hedge .
we took off as fast as we dared , considering the state of the porsche , and headed back to etretat , no more than an hour distant .
we were laughing , shaking off the adrenaline rush .
pulling into the familiar parking lot , we heaved a sigh of relief at being back home .
mrs leblanc welcomed us with open arms , hugging us warmly .
we updated her on the recent events while we ate a small meal .
she gave me a stern look when she learned of the 'misunderstanding ' about the techno glasses and was horrified when we told her of norton 's attack .
our meal done , raymonde and i headed up to her room .
i briefly contacted my friends .
briar was shocked we had not done more to restrain norton .
raymonde came to my defence .
we had left the man in a physically weakened condition , with no money , no identification , no weapon and a disabled vehicle .
if he had become a rogue interpol agent , he would also have to avoid the authorities .
norton was not going to bother us for a while .
coulter recorded a video of the cylinder , planning to spend a sleepless night figuring out how to open it .
we bid our goodbyes to our online friends and disconnected .
i placed the cylinder on the nightstand and lay down in bed next to an exhausted raymonde .
we simply lay there until we fell asleep .
when i woke up next morning , the cylinder was gone !
chapter 9 the secret in the office i woke raymonde and pointed toward the bed stand , feeling sick with worry .
she went to get out of bed but i held her back .
let 's just lie here and think about things for a second .
i know we 're panicky about the cylinder 's disappearance but i think that this situation requires a little reflection before we act . ''
she lay back down , nodding in agreement , her exposed bosom distracting me pleasantly .
she noticed where i was looking and , covering herself up with the blanket , smacked me lightly .
keep your eyes on the business at hand ! ''
i laughed and gave her a kiss .
listen , raymonde , let 's look at this step by step .
the cylinder is gone , so someone must have taken it .
it ca n't be norton .
there 's no way he could have been sneaking around , not with his broken foot .
the killer has n't shown his face , unless of course , the killer is norton .
it has to be the vallin brothers . ''
but how did they get in ?
the outside doors were locked .
we heard no noise .
how did they know we were here , that we had the cylinder ?
to get it , they had to come in here , right into my room . ''
her eyes went wide and her nostrils flared .
i know , i know , try and keep calm .
let 's go back to figuring it out and see where that gets us .
how did they get in and how did they get out ?
first , the door .
it is the most obvious way in .
did they use it ? ''
we checked the door .
from our position on the bed , we could see the key , still in its lock .
i distinctly remembered double locking it the night before .
what about the window ? ''
our heads swivelled in unison .
the window was slightly open , allowing a bit of cool air to waft through .
beyond it was a screen .
it would have made too much noise to come in through there .
then , where could they have come from ? ''
questioned raymonde , consternation evident in her face .
we searched for the slightest clue .
i noticed our glasses on the small table by the window and remembered how special they were .
raymonde , could you get my glasses ?
oh , could you close the drapes as well ? ''
i asked her .
tip toeing past the table , she picked up both pairs of glasses .
sliding the drapes closed , she jumped back in bed , pulling up the covers .
she put on her glasses , handing me the other pair .
she looked quite funny , with her wild morning hair and her cool glasses , making me think of a french janis joplin .
keeping that observation to myself , i slipped my glasses on .
switch them to infrared mode . ''
how do you do that ? ''
i showed her the little toggle .
she pushed it and the small screen changed to a monochromatic greenish hue .
i did n't know they could do that .
i guess they 're not just expensive toys after all .
hey , what 's that on the screen ? ''
she asked pointing at the rug between the bed and the window .
that 's the heat signature of your feet , '' i explained .
the infrared mode displays heat instead of normal light .
that 's why i asked you to close the drapes .
heat signatures hang around much longer than most people would believe but it can be erased by other heat sources , like the morning sun .
if we turn the gain up on the infrared mode to maximum , we might be able to detect the footsteps of the person who stole the cylinder .
that might reveal how the invader came in to our room . ''
raymonde appeared suitably impressed .
i looked at the bed stand area , allowing the glasses ' infra red camera to absorb as much heat as possible .
red smears appeared in the rug near the bed stand , irregular shapes , too formless to be shoes .
maybe they walked around in socks , '' raymonde suggested .
that may be right . ''
i panned slowly to the left , following the footsteps .
they headed to the wall facing us , vanishing right through it .
whoever it was stopped moving for a moment , right there , and stood still .
the heat signature of those particular footsteps is quite bright , compared to the others .
looks like only one person .
he must have been checking the room .
he walked around the bed and came to the stand .
cylinder in hand , he returned to the wall , leaving a second set of prints . ''
how could he have gone through the wall ? ''
there simply has to be a hidden opening .
there is no choice . ''
it makes sense , really .
if there was ever going to be a hidden passage , it would be here , in this house , once owned by the creator of arsene lupin , whose adventures held countless hidden passages .
how fitting . ''
her voice trailed off momentarily so if it 's there , how do we open it ? ''
we push the button , of course . ''
the button ?
what button ? ''
i approached the wall , avoiding the fading footsteps , and pressed a section of plaster moulding .
it clicked back and a panel of wall swung away , revealing a dark , narrow corridor .
dust was everywhere .
wait a minute .
i heard that button click as clear as day .
there was no way he could have pressed that and not woken us . ''
he did n't need to use it .
he opened the panel from behind , the sound of the mechanism muffled by the wall .
after entering , he left the panel open .
that way , he was able to retreat in complete silence . ''
if he did n't press it , there ca n't have been any heat left on the button from his finger .
how did you know it was there ? ''
cold air insinuates itself in every crack .
i thought there might be more cracks around a secret mechanism .
all i had to do was look around for cold spots .
i found several but only one near the wall where the footsteps disappeared .
it had to be our button . ''
my father 's training had become habit over the years until it was second nature .
perhaps we had a chance of solving this puzzle after all .
so , what should we do now ? ''
let 's follow the footsteps , find out where they lead .
we might catch the vallin brothers in the tunnel . ''
she shook her head , a slight smile on her face .
do n't you think we should get dressed first ? ''
i had overlooked that small detail in all the excitement .
i guess you 're right .
clothes might be appropriate at this point . ''
anyway , they are long gone .
i am sure they did not come here recently .
otherwise , the heat of their footsteps would be glowing more than they are . ''
her comment gave me an idea .
let 's shower quickly , contact the team and plan our next step .
you go first i 've got something i want to do . ''
she stood up from the bed , peering into the secret corridor for a second , then approached me , looking incredibly beautiful and happy at the same time .
she kissed me and went into the washroom , leaving me to my own devices .
my infrared devices !
i started by recording the track of footprints .
putting on a pair of socks , i stood briefly on the rug , next to the faded marks .
stepping away , i recorded those as well and noted the exact time .
leaving my equipment on the bed , i joined raymonde just as she came out of the shower .
i 'helped ' to dry her , and then had my own shower .
getting dressed , i noted forty five minutes had passed .
i picked up my glasses again and recorded the footprints one final time .
what are you doing ? ''
your comment about the faded footprints made me think .
perhaps we can figure out when they did come into your room .
with the recordings i just did , we should be able to come up with a fairly good estimate .
i 'll get coulter to crunch the numbers .
he 's good at that sort of thing . ''
i activated the glasses ' regular viewing mode , and simply waited , knowing coulter 's monitoring program would alert him .
it took only a few minutes .
raymonde slipped her glasses on and joined us .
coulter could not believe we had let the cylinder slip through our fingers .
however , even he had to admit there was no way we could have anticipated this .
while he might have been upset at the loss of the cylinder , he was happy to learn about the entrance to the secret corridor .
he downloaded the infrared video files from my notebook and worked on them as we talked .
within a few minutes , he had an answer .
although there is a margin of error , it 's within an acceptable percentage .
i would say that your visitor entered at approximately 3 00 am . ''
briar and o'flanahan signed on , bleary eyed .
we updated them as we prepared to enter the secret passageway .
raymonde had found a small flashlight with fresh batteries .
i brought my laptop , since the wireless signal from the glasses would not reach as far as we expected to go .
our online friends were just as anxious to get started even though they were tired and a continent away .
i entered the corridor , careful not to stir up the dust .
raymonde followed behind .
i angled my body sideways and walked along slowly for about three metres .
aiming the flashlight , i saw a descending staircase , exceedingly narrow and steep .
the dust had been recently disturbed , no doubt by our unwelcome nocturnal visitor .
reaching the bottom of the staircase , the corridor ended after two metres , making it seem like we had reached a dead end .
looking around carefully , i found a mechanism with a large toggle .
pushing it up , i heard a muted 'thunk ' and a part of the wall cracked open .
filled with trepidation , i pushed it and stepped into maurice leblanc 's office !
our grand exploratory adventure had taken us a total of ten metres and ended one floor below raymonde 's room .
a selection from the weissmuller manuscript the first four days the invasion of etretat began on the thirteenth of june 1940 , at 11 30 am .
our tanks led the way , going down each principal road into the small town .
several infantry platoons followed the panzers under my command .
we had expected strong opposition during our takeover .
instead we found a town in disarray .
more than fifteen hundred etretatais had fled the town in panic , only to be rebuffed near the seine river , where our planes decimated them .
there remained little governmental activity and the local economy had collapsed .
due to the lack of organized resistance , the first invasion phase was completed ahead of schedule .
we were in control before the townspeople could utter a single protest .
our second phase could begin .
one platoon was dispatched to conduct a house by house search , in order to ascertain the exact number of able bodied men , and to seize all available supplies .
they were instructed to react strongly to any resistance .
my soldiers found a cache of wine bottles almost immediately and the search degenerated into a destructive , boisterous party .
i did n't mind .
the drunker they got , the more frightened the villagers would be .
we would n't be fought off , not like before .
i had foreseen every possible nuance of this invasion , anticipating all of its details .
a second platoon headed to the top of the aval cliff , setting up camp and preparing to dig out the frefosse fort foundation , while a third took possession of the lindon and leblanc villas .
once secured , a thorough search was undertaken to locate the hidden tunnels we suspected were there .
the deputy mayor , rene tonnetot , accompanied by several councillors , nervously stood in front of city hall , the only persons to venture out of their homes .
we selected the white rocks hotel as our temporary base , where we organized the infrastructure necessary for our next phase .
i was baffled by the lack of resistance .
the census team reported no weapons cache and few able bodied men remained .
if the french resistance had been in this village at one time , they were not here now .
i felt cheated .
i had been looking forward to this moment for so long .
leblanc had scurried off like the coward he was .
running had been a mistake .
the resistance had left behind two most valuable assets .
that which we sought plus their women and children !
it ensured our success , no matter what they did .
despite my eagerness to fight the resistance , my real goal had little to do with them .
my purpose was to seize that which leblanc had held for more than thirty years .
by the end of the first day , all takeover phases had been carried out .
i finished the evening drinking champagne and terrorizing the deputy mayor .
it was entertaining enough , watching him jump from foot to foot , his face blanching in fear .
he was a puppet for the absent lindon .
however , tonnetot , lindon and leblanc were powerless .
they could do nothing .
this time , it was our turn .
on the second day , digging was well underway on the aval cliff .
i was informed we would soon break through into the buried frefosse dungeon .
as well , much headway had been made in the leblanc villa .
a secret passageway had been found connecting a bedroom with his office .
the men were positive they would find another passageway soon .
following the census team 's report , i had two locals brought in .
despite the severity of my questioning , neither admitted a single thing .
we buried them behind the ancient church , a good end to a satisfying day .
the third day found me in a less than pleasant mood .
the search of both villas had revealed nothing .
my men were not solving the challenges .
early afternoon , i went out to leblanc 's home .
it took six hours to find the second tunnel .
once in , we reached the caves in less than an hour , our arrival coinciding with the breakthrough into frefosse 's ancient dungeon on the other side .
the caves were ours !
the fourth day was to be our last 'official ' day in etretat .
using an incident developing in the distant havre as a handy excuse , we pretended to leave .
in fact , only empty vehicles left etretat , my men and i safely ensconced inside the caves .
another kommandant was selected .
ignorant of the existence of the caves , he had orders to impose complete control over the region .
we would be free to act .
we hid the entrance to frefosse 's dungeon , concealing it underneath a hastily poured bunker .
its floor could be lowered by a hydraulic system .
the leblanc tunnel would be used as a secondary access .
now came the most important phase of the project , where my planning would prove invaluable .
we would not stop until these caves were transformed into a veritable fortress , unlike any other in the world , from which we could carry out our plans of world domination .
chapter 10 the tunnels i was sitting down in leblanc 's antique desk chair .
i had been looking around the room , trying to solve our new riddle .
the secret passageway led here , therefore the vallins came through here .
both outside doors in the villa had alarms and neither had gone off .
so , where had the vallin brothers gone ?
i may have something , '' said briar .
could you move back against the wall in front of the desk and slowly pan the room . ''
i did as he asked .
perfect .
tell me what you see .
describe it , my boy . ''
i see a desk , behind that , a chair , and a low cabinet with a built in bookshelf . ''
what about above the bookshelf ?
what do you see there ?
tell me that ! ''
he emphasized , getting excited , his shiny head bouncing around animatedly .
i see a large rectangle .
inside that , a triangle , and inside that , a circle ! ''
it had been there all the time , right in plain view .
another leblanc masterpiece .
bravo , my boy , bravo ! ''
briar added , nearly screaming .
he caught himself and calmed down , straightening out his jacket .
leblanc had purchased this house in 1917 .
he often claimed illness , spending much of his time in bed , resting .
what if , instead , he had a hidden exit , allowing him to escape without being seen , not even by his wife ?
what then ?
i returned to the desk chair and sat down .
i thought of my father , training me to think logically , preparing me for moments like this .
no matter which way i assembled the facts , my conclusion was always the same .
the entrance used by the vallin brothers had to be the library unit itself .
three observations led me to this .
the first there was n't enough room behind the walls for a hidden passage anywhere else in the house .
the second leblanc always put his clues in plain sight .
i was sure he had done the same in his private office .
he had placed the geometric symbols above the library .
the third observation was dust .
upstairs , the carpet had hidden the traces of dust from the hidden corridor .
down here , on the varnished wooden floor , dust was much more visible .
by simply rotating my chair and looking down , i could see dusty footprints between the bedroom passageway and the bookcase .
though an attempt to clean up had been made , enough remained to note two different shoe impressions , confirming both vallin brothers had invaded the house .
one had likely remained in the office , keeping a vigil , while the other had gone up to raymonde 's bedroom .
therefore , logically , a door was right in front of me .
mrs leblanc was opening drawers and moving objects at random , trying to trigger the door mechanism .
she would not succeed .
it was not a book .
too easy to trigger .
there would be no switch , no button .
there could be no accidental opening of this doorway .
i noticed four little rectangles , one on each of the bookcase 's four columns .
they jarred with the rest of the library unit , as if imposed on it , not part of the original design .
there was also a shelf missing on the right .
why was it missing ?
raymonde , could you close the panel entrance into this room . ''
paul 's figured something out , '' coulter said .
i opened the bookcase 's left glass door , and emptied the second shelf .
removing it , i found it came off strangely , nestled inside a curious spring loaded notch on the left .
this was unlike the shelf 's right side , where a small strip of wood acted as support .
pulling the shelf out , i heard a faint 'thunk ' emanating from inside the wall .
i opened the glass door on the right side of the library , exposing the area missing a shelf and checked for a similar indentation .
it was painted over but it was there .
with an apologetic look at mrs leblanc , i hit the indentation hard with the palm of my hand .
the paint let go , revealing another spring loaded notch .
i took the shelf , pushing it into the indentation and dropping the other side down on the wooden strip .
as it seated itself , a second , deep 'thunk ' was heard , much louder than the previous one .
closing all three cabinet glass doors , i felt them lock more securely than before .
holding my breath in anticipation , i reached for the cabinet handle on the right and pulled on it .
nothing happened !
while wondering what i had missed , my eyes fell upon a book on the top shelf .
it was the hollow needle , an identical copy to the two already in my possession .
unfortunately , the cabinet doors would not open again , probably not until i activated the mechanism to access the hidden entrance .
i would have to examine the book later .
mrs leblanc , would you mind closing the office door ?
it would probably be best if you closed it from the inside . ''
the door closed with a solid 'thunk ' .
try opening it again . ''
she tried but it was impossible .
excellent .
now let me have another go at this . ''
i reached for the cabinet glass door one more time and pulled on its handle .
after a few moments , i detected movement !
excited , i tugged harder .
the entire bookcase slid out of the wall , accompanied by a hiss of escaping air .
it was nothing more than a very thick , very wide door .
the low cabinet in front of it had gotten even lower , dropping into the floor , as the library continued to open on its massive hinges .
the lower cabinet settled into a new position , becoming a handy step .
raymonde and her mother peered into the inky darkness of the tunnel beyond , as they congratulated me .
coulter asked how i had done it .
oh no .
i 'm not wasting a half hour explaining things .
i 'll explain it on the way .
it 's time for us to go exploring . ''
past the library 'doorway ' , a set of stairs vanished into the darkness .
aiming the flashlight around and seeing nothing dangerous , i descended slowly , raymonde following close behind .
we had packed a few supplies and brought a coil of rope , just in case .
the glasses were recording and my three friends were glued to their monitors .
mrs leblanc stayed behind , choosing to remain in the office until our return .
after about seven metres , the stairs ended and we followed a straight brick corridor , featureless except for electrical wires attached to the wall at regular intervals .
the wires had been cut near the entrance , suggesting there had been an outside power source in the past .
i saw an extremely old light bulb in a ceramic socket and i noticed more bulbs hanging from the wires in the distance .
coulter stopped me before i could go further .
do me a favour and examine that light bulb more closely .
maybe we can learn more about who placed them here . ''
i lifted the light bulb up , exposing a printed logo .
it 's german .
that means germans were in this tunnel .
when would they have had the chance ?
would you know , briar ? ''
wondered o'flanahan .
there can only be one time .
the germans invaded in etretat in 1940 .
they took over leblanc 's house immediately following their arrival .
they would have been able to search this house from top to bottom .
it could not have held its secrets for long . ''
it must have been heart rending for leblanc to run away from his home , knowing the german army was coming to steal what he had kept hidden all these years , '' raymonde commented .
this was no longer a clever theory spun around a coffee table .
unfortunately , leblanc had taken whatever he knew to his grave .
no , i was wrong about that .
the shadow killer knew .
hitler also knew , as early as 1911 .
hitler and another man , killing people , stealing the same information we were desperately trying to collect today .
it truly was a conspiracy !
unfortunately , i could not accept leblanc would ever have allied himself with hitler and company .
leblanc had run in 1939 , proving he was not their ally but rather their enemy .
o'flanahan 's voice interrupted my thoughts .
say , are you going to explain how you opened the secret door in leblanc 's office or what ? ''
it began with the impression of a straight line that was n't there .
the four rectangles on the bookcase implied a straight line .
there was no shelf on the right side of the cabinet , breaking the line .
when i transposed the right and left shelves with the concept of open and closed , as applied to the passageways , i understood leblanc 's game .
the left shelf of the library represented the secret door in leblanc 's bedroom upstairs .
the middle shelf represented the office itself and the right shelf represented the secret doorway leading out of the office .
to move from the office to the hidden passageway , i would have to replace the missing shelf on the right but there was no spare shelf sitting around .
i took my comparison a step further .
perhaps , i had to take the left shelf , the one representing the upstairs passageway , and move it to the right side to complete the line .
this might mean only one door could be open at a time for the mechanism to work .
that 's why i asked raymonde and mrs leblanc to close the entry points .
with both doors closed and both shelves in the right position , the hidden passageway mechanism was unlocked , allowing me to open the tunnel door . ''
i ca n't believe you came up with that .
i 'm officially impressed , '' coulter admitted .
i 'll second that , '' o'flanahan said gruffly .
our modern tunnel connected with a much older tunnel carved out of the bedrock .
water pooled around our feet , soaking our shoes .
maybe that 's why the vallin were walking around in socks .
they came in rubber boots and took them off to avoid leaving wet tracks all over , '' raymonde said .
the older tunnel ended in a t junction , the wires turning to the left towards the aval cliff and the caves we sought .
everyone wanted to follow the wires .
our direction was chosen .
while we walked along the dark tunnel , countless noises echoing around us , briar broached a previous topic i have done more research into norton being the killer . ''
you 've been thinking norton was the shadow killer for a while now .
i just do n't see why it has to be him , '' o'flanahan interrupted .
because he 's the one after us , i mean after you , paul .
raymonde as well , i would guess .
norton 's actions at the chapel did nothing to make him look innocent .
you must admit that .
i mean the man shot at you both .
once he had the cylinder in his possession , who knows what he might have done , '' briar retorted .
he might have done nothing , being just a cop tracking a killer and coming across an unexpected clue in the form of that cylinder , '' o'flanahan snapped back .
both had good arguments .
i was leaning in o'flanahan 's corner .
norton might be unhinged but he did n't come across as a killer .
briar spoke up again .
my point is i have come up with disturbing information .
i am not the first to suspect norton of killing his sister .
he was investigated but the charges were dropped due to insufficient evidence .
he saw shadows everywhere , shadow killers , and he found them , or at least , he claimed he did .
many doubted the unsolved murders he collected for his list were connected .
his work suffered as his obsession with the shadow killer grew .
inspector rowan from interpol accused him with the murder of several people from his list .
unfortunately , rowan was conveniently killed in an accident before he could reveal his evidence .
the case was dropped .
norton was eventually re instated but warned to steer clear of his theories .
when he pulled strings to check on your parent 's murder and started talking about the killer again , interpol became uneasy .
after the harry stiles murder , interpol stopped hesitating and shut norton down or rather , they tried to .
he took off before they could apprehend him .
there is , at this very moment , a warrant for his arrest across the whole of europe .
i tell you , norton is the killer .
i am sure of it . ''
this was certainly worrisome .
raymonde and i had walked about a hundred and fifty metres towards the aval cliff .
we encountered increasing amounts of rubble and broken chunks of rock .
everyone hoped the caves would n't be much further .
the rubble deepened until it filled up the entire tunnel .
the wires disappeared into the pile of broken rocks and stones .
this mess has been here for a long time .
it looks like the collapse may have been caused by an explosion of some force , '' informed coulter .
the tunnel was blown up after the germans had been here .
those wires continue through the rubble .
they blew the tunnel when they were done with it , '' observed o'flanahan .
frustrated , we headed back the other way .
digging tunnels through stone is hard work , even soft chalk like this .
this is a long tunnel .
someone must have felt it was worth the effort , '' stated briar .
could romans have dug this tunnel ? ''
wondered coulter .
absolutely .
romans were here in 50 bc , they had the tools , the skills and the work force .
they would have needed a lot of men , let me tell you .
this is a very long tunnel . ''
raymonde and i were now knee deep in freezing water and it was getting deeper .
the reception for the glasses had been degrading as we got further underground .
we managed to say good bye to our friends before losing our connection to the internet completely .
we had been wading through deep water for a while and were shivering from the cold .
luckily , the water grew shallower until , thankfully , we were past it .
we took a short break to warm up .
i took off my pants and wrung them dry .
i was shaking with the cold , numbed by it , as was raymonde .
despite being chilled , she still had enough energy to comment on my appearance , as i stood , shivering in my underwear .
she followed my example and removed her sopping pants , squeezing them free of excess water , while cleverly avoiding my sarcastic retort .
we rubbed each other briskly to get the blood flowing again .
our shivering taken care of , we dressed , our clothes sufficiently dry , and continued our march along the tunnel leading towards the amont cliff .
my senses sharpened in the gloom and i was able to pick out details in the rock walls .
despite the weak flashlight , i perceived everything with such clarity , i felt i might not need the flashlight at all .
i mentioned the strange occurrence to raymonde .
she surprised me by saying she was experiencing the same thing and suggested we turn off the flashlight .
as our eyes adjusted , it seemed as if the walls and roof of the tunnel were emanating a dim light , an incredibly faint yellow glow , so weak the flashlight had overwhelmed it .
neither of us came up with a satisfactory explanation for the strange luminosity .
we continued in silence , enjoying the odd experience while it lasted , turning the flashlight back on when the glow faded to nothing .
we arrived at a dead end , the tunnel stopping abruptly , as if work on it had been abandoned .
baffled , raymonde and i retraced our steps until we found a small room a few metres before the end of the tunnel .
it was empty , except for a few rotten shelves .
we returned to the end of the tunnel .
to our relief , we discovered a narrow cleft in the rock on the left , cleverly hidden in the folds of the tunnel walls .
it led us to a door made of a single block of stone .
a lever released a catch , allowing us to open it .
we walked out into a bigger tunnel , this one lined in long bricks , much older than those in the tunnel near the leblanc residence .
bricks like these had to be from the roman period .
i recorded everything for future analysis .
we went along the right side of the tunnel .
after a short distance , we encountered a locked gate , beyond which we saw an overgrown glade .
unable to exit , we retraced our footsteps .
once past the camouflaged door , we perceived the faint sounds of pounding surf .
soon after , we arrived at the end of the tunnel , a hole in the amont cliff , about ten metres above the ground .
below us , exposed by the retreating tide , was a short strip of sand connecting to the main beach .
i coiled a loop of rope around an outcropping , dropping both ends to the beach below .
we were not the first to come here .
there were signs of rope wear right where i had just placed mine .
the vallin brothers had probably come through here twelve hours ago , when the tide was out .
i climbed down first , getting to the bottom quickly and waited , holding the rope tight , as raymonde went carefully over the ledge and made her way down the cliff .
she dropped down the last few feet into my waiting arms .
after a brief kiss , we separated and , reaching for the hanging rope , i pulled until it slipped off the outcropping .
i coiled it up , hung it on my shoulder , picked up both pack sacks and headed off to etretat 's main beach , raymonde and i holding hands .
it was late afternoon when we reached etretat from the beach .
raymonde called her mother using my cell phone , letting her know we were all right , and we took a taxi back to the villa leblanc .
mrs leblanc invited us to her room , where we talked while having an afternoon snack .
so , in the end , this was just a wild goose chase ? ''
mrs leblanc stated .
simply a few forgotten tunnels leading to the channel . ''
not so , mrs leblanc .
these tunnels have told us much already .
for example , we know romans built some of them .
those tunnels have probably been in existence for more than 2000 years .
additionally their existence confirms the caves are real , even though we have not found them yet .
that is no little thing to know .
the germans found and used these tunnels , confirming the link to hitler .
his involvement is no longer a mere letter in leblanc 's office , '' i explained .
i have used that letter for many years in the display in grand papa 's office .
i found it folded with the final papers and books from his estate .
i never knew it was so important , otherwise i would not have left it on display , '' be happy that you did .
without that crucial link , we would not have understood the true scale of the mysteries confronting us , '' i said .
her comment about leblanc reminded me of the book in the office .
mrs leblanc , when you went through your grandfather 's papers , did you come across a copy of the hollow needle ? ''
she nodded .
yes , an old copy , signed by him .
i have kept it in his office all these years .
it was left to his son , patrice leblanc , my father .
he died during the second world war . ''
another piece of the puzzle clicked into place .
i now understood why i was here , hot on the trail of a family mystery , while the leblanc family was not .
the person to whom the mystery had been intended to be revealed , leblanc 's son , had died before he even knew of its existence .
we followed her into leblanc 's office .
i took the time to put on my glasses and activate them .
coulter came online , soon followed by briar .
i updated them on the end of our tunnel adventure .
by then , mrs leblanc had opened the cabinet doors and pulled out her copy .
briar exclaimed good gosh , my boy , it 's absolutely identical to the other two . ''
the printing history showed the same legend .
it was number one of a limited printing of four and one .
so none of them are forgeries .
they are all identified as number one , '' commented coulter .
mrs leblanc was shaking her head .
paul , what is bothering me about this the most , and please do n't take this the wrong way , is that you are here in the first place .
i can not understand how you were led to this place by your great grandfather .
who was he that he knew about all this ? ''
my boy , i have been asking myself these questions as well .
your great grandfather , paul sirenne , must once have been in france .
yet , for unexplained reasons , he left and relocated to canada to open that bookstore of his , '' said briar .
he was also very rich ! ''
i added .
my inherited wealth comes from long ago .
the sirennes did not leave france for reasons of poverty . ''
inspired by a sudden thought , i opened the book to the back .
there were the same white stitches .
could it be ?
yes !
a hidden flap , carefully concealed by fake stitches .
let me get my tools . ''
before i could move , mrs leblanc had opened the desk drawer , pulling out a pair of tweezers .
i got to work , playing with the edge , until i had loosened the thin layer of leather binding .
pulling the flap up , i revealed a piece of folded paper .
trying to stop the trembling in my fingers , i reached in with the tweezers and pulled it out .
unfolding it gingerly , i read it aloud patrice if you have found this note , then you have taken the first step towards regaining your heritage .
time and events have overtaken me .
i have not been able to tell you everything .
there is much more to know .
you know what has been found , i have told you that much .
you must look further , to discover what is really there .
when the time is right , your son 's son must find a bookstore owner named paul sirenne , in ottawa , canada .
with his help , what we have hidden will be revealed .
do not fail me , do not fail etretat .
your father , maurice leblanc ps a real story ends near etretat lost until patrice infers new ideas subtly your friend paul sirenne my legs collapsing , i dropped heavily into the desk chair .
o'flanahan had just signed on and the others were talking excitedly .
my head was buzzing .
this note directly connected the leblancs and the sirennes together , telling us to find each other .
once again , i was forced to accept i was part of a pact spanning generations .
what is going on ? ''
i exclaimed .
if only we knew more about events in etretat during the second world war .
the revelations from this note are also muddying the vallin waters .
let 's not forget we need to find out how they knew of these tunnels , '' said briar .
would talking to someone who was there be helpful ? ''
sprung mrs leblanc .
i looked at her in surprise .
do you know of someone ? ''
yes , i do .
he is old now but , from what i hear , still has his wits about him .
i was very young when i ran away with grand papa .
when i was old enough to grow curious about such things , i researched the past of this place , to find out what had gone on in our house after we were forced to abandon it .
eventually , i was led to 'bequilles ' , a local man who had been active in the resistance during the second world war .
he was a cripple , walking around on crutches , and had not been accepted for regular service .
however , he found other ways to be helpful .
if you tell him i sent you , he might share what he knows . ''
we decided to use the next few hours to go see this 'bequilles ' fellow .
perhaps our visit would provide useful information .
chapter 11 bequilles ' story i parked the porsche in front of an old house converted into apartments .
i was wearing my glasses and they were in recording mode .
the man 's apartment was on the ground floor .
there was no answer when we rang .
a snooping landlord came out to tell us his tenant had gone out for a bite to eat , when bequilles returned .
his old frame rested heavily on two worn crutches .
he was looking at us with tired eyes , unsure about what we might want .
his entire demeanour changed when we mentioned our names .
he grew attentive and a spark scintillated in his deep , black eyes , barely visible underneath a pair of thick eyebrows .
i 'll not have us standing in the hallway like a gang of troublesome youngsters , '' he invited , unlocking the last door on the right .
besides , i 've been walking for almost thirty minutes .
my old bones have had it for the day . ''
we entered into the small apartment .
there was clutter everywhere .
he led us around various piles of newspapers and magazines , to a small dining table .
once we were seated , he reached into a nearby cupboard , pulling out a bottle of wine , along with three glasses that were more or less clean .
uncorking the bottle , he poured an equal amount in each glass .
lifting his glass up , he called a toast .
to victoire leblanc , who lost so much and endured so much more . ''
it made me reflect on her tribulations , sixty years ago .
after a brief moment , bequilles spoke up .
last time i saw victoire , we talked about some things from a long while ago .
most folks around these parts might prefer to let those things be .
but she sent you and i ca n't have you wasting all that time coming here for nothing .
so go on , ask your questions . ''
right to the point .
i liked him already !
sir , raymonde and i are on a search for historical information .
we have come up with some unexpected knowledge connecting leblanc 's old villa with the germans in world war two .
mrs leblanc felt you were the best man to tell us about that period . ''
his deep set eyes bored into mine .
these things you want to know , why do you want to know them ? ''
raymonde and i met at the villa leblanc .
we were both looking for the same thing , although neither of us knew it at the time .
raymonde 's interest comes from her mother , who got it from her grandfather , maurice leblanc .
mine comes from my father , who gave me leblanc 's book along with a strange message , when i was nine .
our search has united us in a way we could never have anticipated .
we know something happened here long ago and it revolves around what leblanc did in 1911 .
then we discovered the germans were mixed up in it . ''
bequilles sat in silence for a while before replying .
there have been secrets in etretat for a long time .
i have been party to those secrets , something i hesitate to admit to strangers .
but you may be the very people meant to receive this knowledge .
who knows ?
i was n't part of the inner circle back then , so i was n't made aware of everything .
the war being what it was , some lines got blurred and i learned a bit more than i was supposed to , i guess .
i always had a tendency to keep my mouth shut and my ears open .
it was bad , this war , and etretat got hit pretty hard .
our little village fared better than some others , so there was little use complaining .
i was already working for the resistance .
lucien duperoux himself asked me to join .
he knew about my skills with the radio .
he had also seen me win a race with my crutches .
he knew i could move fast when i needed to , something the germans would never believe .
i always acted stupid and slow around them .
they might beat me but they would never suspect me .
if i were to choose a place to start my story , it would be when obersleutenant weissmuller arrived , on june the thirteenth , 1940 .
i 'll never forget that day , the day everything changed .
one tank drove right up henry v avenue and shot at a large pile of garbage .
ca n't imagine what they were thinking .
that 's about the only funny thing that day .
the germans had itchy trigger fingers and some people got shot for simply being there .
it was terrible .
and it got worse .
over the next four days , they ransacked the entire town , terrorizing everyone , taking whatever they wanted and destroying the rest .
our real mayor back then , raymond lindon , had left before the germans arrived , since he was jewish .
he went into hiding and he was good at that .
he was an integral part of the local resistance and had his hands in a lot of things .
he came right back , as soon as the war ended and took up his post as if he had never left .
leblanc was gone by then , never to return .
anyway , tonnetot , the deputy mayor , was summoned in the middle of night to meet obersleutenant weissmuller .
sitting in a bed , smoking our cigars and drinking our champagne , he threatened tonnetot with death should any of his men be harmed and then sent him on his way .
four days later , weissmuller was gone , called away to squelch a nest of resistance in dieppe .
on the seventeenth of june , another kommandant arrived and took over control of the area . ''
bequilles refilled his wine glass .
i 've had a long time to think about back then .
over the years i came up with a theory .
you see , although weissmuller and his men drove off four days after they got here , i think they never left ! ''
he paused dramatically .
i did a lot of things during those four years .
most of it was simple stuff .
there was food to bring to those that needed it and that was most everybody .
we had to hide what we did have , because the germans kept taking everything .
we got pretty tricky along the way and bamboozled them a fair few times .
sometimes , we would get caught .
like when i was caught with coal i should n't have had , which , back then , was a pretty bad thing .
i played dumb as always .
they took me to see the kommandant .
he was busy talking with another man , who was giving him a serious dressing down .
i only saw that man for a minute but i would put my hand in the fire and swear it was obersleutenant weissmuller , supposed to be gone more than five months before .
whenever there was talk , i would listen , trying to piece more of it together .
everyone in the resistance knew something strange was going on .
unexplained murders , many of them downright gruesome , convoys in the night , all sorts of things .
then , there was the growing list of new kommandants .
germans were a pretty organised lot .
i mean they had to be , considering what they were trying to do .
i would have thought when a kommandant was in place , he would stay there .
i even checked in other towns and found that was pretty much the rule .
yet , every six months , a new kommandant and his troops would roll in .
it made no sense .
then , there were the trucks . ''
trucks ? ''
raymonde asked , captivated by his story .
yes .
lots and lots of trucks .
almost every night , you could hear their rumble .
at night , the patrols doubled , so you could n't go wandering the countryside on a whim , no sir .
it was our biggest problem .
the resistance had a lot of trouble getting out there to find out what was going on .
i know , from seeing a manifest one very lucky time , that some of those trucks were bringing cement .
tons of cement .
later , there were explosions in the channel .
for almost six months , they went on .
but things got real interesting when we noticed the duplicate german patrols . ''
duplicate patrols ?
what do you mean ? ''
he grinned a toothless smile .
it sure threw us for a loop when we figured it out .
when the first unexpected patrol came by , we blamed the lookout who had worked on the timetable .
when it happened again and again , we realised something entirely different was going on .
one day , we were lucky .
we were able to follow the surprise patrol to a small glade , near the dungeon , a local restaurant .
soldiers were being dropped off .
they entered the wooded glade and never came out .
by our count , over one hundred men had entered the glade and vanished during a period of twelve days .
to add to the mystery , it was n't the kommandant 's troops either .
it seemed likely they knew of the other soldiers , i mean , how could they not ?
but they never paid them the slightest notice .
there were two separate groups of germans , one hidden and the other brought here strictly to deal with the daily tasks , left in the dark about the activities of the first group .
eventually , the local leader of the resistance sneaked into the glade to follow the disappearing men .
we had all heard the fishermen 's tales about secret tunnels and such .
perhaps there was some truth to them .
although guarded , the glade had a slight dip in its centre , which he used to crawl past unseen .
seeing a soldier entering a narrow hole in the west side of the glade , he pursued him , entering into a long tunnel , which led him to the beach , on the amont side .
the soldier was nowhere to be seen . ''
raymonde and i knew that tunnel .
we had glimpsed the glade through the locked iron gate .
bequilles continued the tunnel on the beach ended at least eight metres in the air , its original access destroyed long ago by the tide .
the germans could not be going there .
there had to be another way out .
so he searched and searched , only to be nearly caught by four soldiers who came out of the tunnel wall .
he dropped to the ground , hiding in the shadows .
after they were gone , he examined where they had come from and found a trigger brick that opened a hidden door , leading to another tunnel .
more germans were coming and he almost got caught , jumping into the channel from the edge of the tunnel , the germans hot on his tail .
they must have thought he 'd drowned , which he nearly did .
they beefed up their security around the glade after that .
it only was much later that he chanced going back , near the end of the war .
the germans were in a panic by then .
he returned to the second hidden tunnel , eventually arriving at a crossroad .
one way was blocked by a fresh rock fall .
the other led to leblanc 's house . ''
bequilles emptied the last dregs of wine into his glass .
that 's almost all i know .
after the germans left , one more thing happened .
a woman who lived out on the petit valaine road woke up in the night , hearing faint screams and machine gun fire , followed by sporadic firing .
searches were carried out the next day but nothing was ever found . ''
the resistance leader who found those tunnels ?
what was his name ? ''
his name ?
he was called vallin , gerard vallin . ''
there was our connection .
it explained how the vallin brothers knew of the tunnel .
their father had been in the resistance .
why did you never tell anyone of the tunnels ? ''
bequilles ' eyes narrowed .
that 's a good question .
yes sir , it is .
vallin told me about it as quick as he could , the first time around , and told many others , although most did n't believe him .
the second time he went in , he only told me .
that 's because someone else was there , when he was doing the telling tonnetot .
as soon as he heard vallin , he jumped on both of us right quick .
told us we were n't to ever tell anyone else about it .
no one was to know about the secret .
that 's what he called it , 'the secret ' , like it was something big and important .
he said etretat was hiding something very special and some of us had the duty to protect it .
so , i have n't breathed a word about them until this very day , no sir , not to anyone , '' so why did you tell us ? ''
raymonde asked .
his eyes twinkled a bit .
there are many reasons , i guess .
i 'm not long for this world , '' he stopped , seeing our concerned looks .
oohh , there 's no use denying it , i can feel it coming .
i 'm thinking this might be the last chance i get to pass on the knowledge that 's been in my head all these years , never breathing a word of it .
it feels good to let it out .
but it 's not just that , it 's you two as well .
let me explain .
when tonnetot told us what he did , he let on more than he intended .
he was n't surprised about the tunnels .
he was more worried about us telling anyone than about what the germans had been up to .
one thing i knew for sure about tonnetot what he said was for the good of etretat .
today , when you explained your reasons for being here , i felt you were here for the good of etretat as well .
i thought this story long dead , but you two are bringing it back to life , '' he paused , pointing a trembling finger at raymonde .
you are from the very family that began all this so long ago .
you are directly involved in this secret , as tonnetot called it .
as for you , mr sirenne , i think you are very special indeed .
i am very surprised to finally meet you .
it is right for both of you to find out about your heritage .
call me an old fool but that is what i believe and that is why i told you . ''
i shook his hand warmly , thanking him for his trust , and raymonde hugged him tightly .
he remained sitting at the kitchen table when we left , looking at his empty glass of wine .
it was late in the afternoon and we still had much to do , or at least i did .
we were sitting at the restaurant table by the window , having a quick bite .
mrs leblanc had joined us and briar was online , as was coulter .
o'flanahan could n't make it , so we were recording our conversation .
we found out how the vallins knew about the tunnels and that is no little thing .
bequilles gave us a few additional clues .
such as obersleutenant weissmuller , who was involved in secretive activities odd explosions in the water , trucks in the night , loads of cement , use of hidden tunnels , double patrols , the list goes on . ''
i stopped and sipped some coffee .
briar took the opportunity to jump in .
i 'll check into weissmuller .
perhaps my friend in nuremberg can flesh out his character .
we already know hitler was involved from 1911 and someone else was working with him , killing people and destroying information about etretat .
it lasted through the first world war and for decades after that .
at the first opportunity , during the beginning of world war 2 , they invaded etretat , marched directly into leblanc 's home and used his hidden tunnel to access the caves .
they even built their first bunker over the fort of frefosse .
could hitler have built a war machine just to take over the etretat caves ? ''
our conspiracy was taking on a more insidious tone .
was hitler 's incredible rush to power motivated by his discoveries in etretat ?
what about his rise into politics ?
hitler devoted his life to these goals .
it could not simply be a feint to hide his interest in etretat .
however , the caves could have been a root cause , a hidden motivation for the whole thing .
we would never know , unless we took the next step .
we have to go after that rock cylinder and deal with the vallin brothers .
no matter what the germans did in the 1940 's , the answer is here , now , and the vallins stole that answer from us .
we still are n't sure about the nature of their involvement but their acts so far have n't seemed very friendly .
let 's not forget they have lived here all their lives .
that 's a lot of time for research and investigation . ''
so what are you going to do ? ''
coulter asked .
i 'm going to visit them right after supper .
i 'll be going alone .
they wo n't be expecting me .
we 'll have ourselves a little talk .
i 'm sure we 'll be able to 'resolve ' things . ''
raymonde looked a bit miffed .
there is no way you are leaving me behind .
i want to talk to those rascals myself . ''
raymonde , i know you want to come but i ca n't let you .
this is something i have to do on my own .
you 'll be along anyway .
i 'll have my glasses on . ''
i do n't care about the stupid glasses .
i care about you and i do n't want you hurt .
they almost killed us , if you remember !
what if norton comes back ? ''
she said , tears in her eyes .
i hugged her .
what ?
hobbling on one foot ?
no , he 's out of the picture for a while yet .
listen , raymonde , i came here to solve a mystery and found you instead .
all our search has done is to place both of us at risk .
i ca n't stand that .
it 's time to end this and it 's up to me to do it . ''
very well .
you can go but i want you to be careful , '' she hugged me again , squeezing me tight .
or you 'll have to answer to me . ''
chapter 12 the vallin brothers i examined norton 's pistol .
the weight surprised me .
it certainly was a big thing and looked fearsome enough .
i held it gingerly , trying to figure out its main mechanisms .
i found the safety catch , ensuring it was flipped on , and slipped the pistol into my small packsack .
after saying my good byes to raymonde and mrs leblanc , i got into the porsche , directions in hand .
events were forcing me to act impulsively , going on gut instinct .
i did n't know what to be more surprised at what i was about to do , or that i was doing it !
i parked far from the vallin house , not wanting to be seen .
according to mrs leblanc , it had been home to the vallin family for almost one hundred and twenty five years .
old man vallin himself had lived there .
getting nearer , i activated the glasses , and everybody connected in , wishing me good luck .
i asked them to keep quiet .
i did n't want to be interrupted at a crucial moment .
the sun had n't set yet but the shadows were getting long .
i used them to my advantage , getting on my knees and crawling along a row of bushes , which bordered their property .
reaching the end , i saw their house .
it was a one floor affair , simple enough and poorly maintained .
their lawn had n't been cut in months .
i was n't complaining since it made sneaking around much easier .
approaching the house and noticing an open window , i slowly raised my head to look inside .
they were both right there , the rock cylinder between them .
one had a hammer and the other held a chisel .
they were arguing .
apparently , they had been at this process for a while and were having little success .
preoccupied as they were , there was a good chance i could surprise them .
i pulled the pistol out from the packsack and tried to stop myself from shaking .
be careful , my boy .
do n't do anything careless . ''
let him do it in peace , for pete 's sake , briar , '' whispered o'flanahan .
i crawled along the side of the house , reaching the door after a few minutes .
the front door of their house was a two part affair with the top separate from the bottom .
i checked the lower knob , which thankfully was unlocked .
i remembered my last attempt at unlocking a door .
i pulled it slowly , leaving the top closed , while listening to their ongoing argument .
i crouched on my knees in the middle of the entrance .
freeze , you two .
stop what you are doing and do n't move .
i have a gun aimed directly at both of you . ''
my loud voice froze them into place .
excellent , my boy , you 've got them now , '' briar jumped in again .
hey , man will you please be quiet .
this is the best part , '' coulter shot back .
what do you want mister ? ''
the small vallin asked , his voice shaking and nervous .
you know what i want .
it 's on the table , right between you .
you stole it from us , remember ? ''
you have no right to that rock thing .
it belongs to us , to etretat . ''
no you are wrong about that .
i am positive the cylinder was specifically intended for us , '' i stated , shaking the gun .
no matter who is right , although we are , you broke into our home and stole it .
you also tried to run us off the road , shot at us , and listened in on our conversations , '' i listed with increasing volume .
none of these acts are those of honest people .
before anything goes further , we will take back what is ours . ''
i moved forward , intent on taking the cylinder .
my foot hit something and i reacted instinctively , looking down at a pair of old dirty boots .
i had taken my attention off the two for a single moment but it was enough !
the small vallin vaulted over the couch , trying to get at a knife , planted in a wall beam on the other side of the room .
i aimed at the knife and pulled the trigger .
the gun went 'click ' .
the safety was still on !
i desperately scrambled to find the safety catch .
the big vallin jumped to the corner where a double barrelled shotgun was leaning .
he grabbed it , cocking it and lifting it to his shoulders , all in one smooth move .
safety off , i swung my gun past the smaller vallin but the big vallin was faster , aiming his shotgun directly at my chest .
his finger was on the trigger and it was tightening !
nobody move .
i have a gun on all of you , '' a familiar voice rang out , strong and clear .
mrs leblanc !
for a moment , everybody froze .
my adrenaline was kicking in , my senses at their peak .
everything slowed down to a crawl .
mrs leblanc was standing outside .
i saw her through the window .
i wondered how she had gotten here .
she held a rifle of some sort .
behind her , i could make out someone else .
raymonde , a look of concern on her face .
the smaller vallin looked tense , ready for anything .
the bigger one was turning his shotgun toward mrs leblanc .
in a moment of clarity , i knew he would shoot her .
there was no stopping it .
the shotgun blast might kill both her and raymonde .
even if mrs leblanc shot him , he would still shoot in reflex .
they would all be killed .
i frantically launched myself at the big vallin , propelling my body directly at his chest , both of my hands reaching for his shotgun .
he was a big man much taller than me and at least a hundred and twenty kilos .
i was overweight .
i hoped it would be enough .
i slammed into him hard .
my right hand clamped convulsively on the shotgun barrel and i jerked it down fast .
it discharged thunderously , blowing a hole into the floor .
the big vallin fell back , smashing his head on the corner of the fireplace mantle and knocking himself out cold .
my ears buzzing , i rolled off him , wrenching the shotgun out of his limp hands and throwing it in a far corner .
i heard a noise , turning around to see the other vallin moving again .
before he could do anything , another booming shot rang out and a dish rack exploded into smithereens .
enough .
no more fighting .
this has gone far enough , '' screamed mrs leblanc at the top of her lungs .
the big vallin was down on the ground , out for the count , and the small vallin was cowering in fear in the corner .
incredible , my boy .
absolutely incredible , '' briar said , the pride obvious in his voice .
i knew you had it in you .
always did . ''
we were sitting around the kitchen table .
the big vallin , ives , was lying on the couch , holding an ice filled rag to the swelling on the back of his head .
jacques vallin , the smaller one , was on a chair , his hands tied behind his back .
he appeared sullen and unhappy .
mrs leblanc seemed to be holding up well .
she had reserves of strength i had not suspected .
as soon as she had shot her rifle into the air , everyone had stopped fighting .
raymonde had run right in and hugged me , explaining in chopped sentences about her mother worrying , getting the rifle from over the mantelpiece and calling a taxi .
mrs leblanc stayed exactly where she was , her rifle at the ready , until i found some rope and tied the protesting jacques vallin .
then i helped ives vallin onto the couch .
he was slowly coming around from the glancing blow .
big as he was , he seemed rather gentle .
it was time to get down to business .
now that we had the vallin brothers where we wanted them , we would be able to get some answers .
all right .
it 's apparent everyone 's upset .
you two do n't trust us and we do n't trust you , perhaps because you shot at us , among other things .
earlier , you said the rock cylinder belonged to you and to etretat .
i know it was intended for us , not you , which tells me you do n't have a clue what we are doing and why we are doing it . ''
jacques vallin interrupted , speaking in a slightly remorseful tone .
we did n't shoot at you .
i mean we did but we did n't mean to .
the truck was running so bad and was overheating again .
we had n't put enough water in the radiator when you took off .
you had that fast sports car and you were going so fast , like you were taunting us or something .
i was pretty mad , knowing we were going to lose you and i pulled out the gun , as i pushed the gas pedal to the floor .
i never wanted to fire at you .
i did n't know what i was going to do , really .
that was when the engine just plain blew .
popped a cylinder right through the block .
the explosion scared the heck out of me , my finger tightened by reflex , and the damn gun went off .
by then , we were just coasting along , the truck without power , when you took off like a rocket and went right over the side of the road .
i never saw anything like that before .
you 've got to have nerves of steel , mister .
anyway , i braked like mad , jumped out of the truck and ran right to the edge of the cliff to see if you were all right , brother right behind me .
we got there just in time to see you skim over the river and drive right up to the road , smooth as silk , '' he jabbered .
i did n't remember it like that .
it had been more like 'barely getting out alive ' after 'losing control of the car ' .
his brother spoke up .
yeah , then you got out of the car and just waved at us , calm as can be .
that took guts , mister . ''
hey , i was telling the story , '' jacques shot back .
you never let me speak .
here i am , hurt , my head all busted up , and i ca n't even say a few words ? ''
ives retorted .
jacques was getting ready to throw back some other quip .
i spoke before he did .
so you did n't shoot on purpose .
fine !
what about following us all over the place ? ''
yes , all over the place , right into our bedroom , while we were sleeping , what about that ? ''
interrupted an angry raymonde , pointing her finger at the smaller of the two vallin , her whole body invested in the gesture .
jacques hung his head down .
i 'm sorry , miss .
it 's was n't like that , really it was n't , although i sure ca n't figure out how you knew exactly what i was doing , because you were sleeping all through .
i went in , no idea what i was looking for , just checking around , real quiet like . ''
raymonde 's eyes flashed .
ives kept going , talking faster and more nervously .
it took me just a second to spot the rock thing on the bedside table .
i figured it had to be something important .
we did n't mean no harm .
we just had to take it from you . ''
why ? ''
i asked simply .
yes , why indeed ?
a key question my boy .
there 's more to this than meets the eye , '' briar added in my ear .
i had almost forgotten about my friends .
the three were still rooted to their computers back home .
they did n't even get commercial breaks for this show .
for all their annoyance , i was glad they had come along for the ride .
because we had to .
it was our duty to father .
we keep guard for etretat , '' answered ives vallin .
that 's right , brother , we keep guard for etretat .
when you came in to the mairie for those records , mister , you sure got me spooked .
no one had asked for those papers , not in a real long time .
i had to follow you to find out what you were up to .
when i heard talk about the fort of frefosse , the next morning at breakfast , i knew you were right in the middle of it , because that 's where our great grandfather was killed .
so we had to keep following you . ''
what they were saying made sense , when seen from their perspective .
were we wrong about the vallin brothers ?
perhaps this situation could be resolved more peaceably than i originally thought .
what if i told you the things we are looking for , like that cylinder of rock , were hidden by raymonde 's great grandfather ?
we know your great grandfather was involved with this mystery .
perhaps what you are doing , this 'keeping on guard for etretat ' , is related to the same affair .
maybe we could work together instead of fighting each other . ''
both of them mulled over my words .
maybe you 're right , mister .
maybe we are looking for the same thing , '' ives said , as he sat up , carefully holding his head .
what is this duty you speak of ?
what is it you guard ? ''
asked raymonde .
jacques looked sheepish , admitting with a slight smile we sure do n't know , miss , and that 's a fact .
it 's something big and it has to be kept secret .
our father gave us this duty and we intend to stand by it . ''
ives was nodding .
we 've kept at it all these years , just like we promised .
it 's hard keeping a secret when you do n't know what it is .
we 've been trying to figure things out but it 's been pretty slow going .
say , you folks would n't be willing to untie brother 's hands , would you ?
i can see they 're getting all blue .
he wo n't do nothing .
i 'm the strong one but i wo n't do anything either . ''
jacques ' hands were indeed blue from lack of circulation .
raymonde untied them and he briefly rubbed his wrists , then grabbed a bottle of red wine from the kitchen counter and some glasses .
i just have to have a drink .
tonight has been too exciting , even for around these parts . ''
i agreed with him .
mrs leblanc did not accept any wine , looking a little tired .
raymonde and i each accepted a small glass .
somehow , this mystery is linked directly to all our families , even mine , far away in canada .
this secret , whatever it is , was intended to be re discovered for a reason .
we do n't know what that reason is yet .
perhaps it is lying there , inside that rock cylinder .
i suggest we join forces .
i will even offer you a salary , if you need it or want it .
we could use the help , although i must warn you , in all conscience , there is some danger to this .
others are trying to solve this mystery as well and they do n't mind killing people . ''
raymonde placed her hand on my shoulder .
mrs leblanc did nothing , as she was sleeping , sitting upright in her chair .
jacques vallin answered mister , it 's true these ladies are etretatais through and through .
we do n't know you but you seem to be a fair man , willing to give us a chance .
we 've been at this a long while but we never got anywhere as far as you .
maybe you could do the thinking and we 'll do the helping . ''
yeah , we 're good with helping .
we know everyone in these parts .
if you need something , you tell us , and we 'll get it .
if i can ever find out what father was talking about all those years , it 'll be the happiest day of my life .
and mister sirenne , i want to say how sorry i am about the shotgun and what happened .
everything moved so fast , i did n't have a chance to think .
i 'm so glad you hit me and stopped me from shooting that nice old lady . ''
i offered my hand .
he stood up slowly , wincing at the pain from his head .
he reached his full height , towering over me .
i could n't believe i had knocked him down .
he was huge .
he smiled and held out his hand .
friends ? ''
he asked .
friends ! ''
i affirmed .
his powerful handshake left my hand numb .
i did the same with jacques , who completed our handshake by raising his hand to his chest , holding the outside fingers and his thumb out while folding in the two inner ones .
he was immediately copied by his brother .
he looked very serious when he spoke .
i 'll work with you , mister , and i 'll be there to help , i swear .
as for a salary , i would n't say no , money being a bit rare for brother and me these days . ''
instead of enemies , we now had a stronger group .
well , i do n't swear an oath to keep quiet .
not a chance .
no way .
this conspiracy is the biggest thing since the roswell ufo crash .
there is no way i 'm not going to publish a book about it , so there , '' said o'flanahan .
i reached up and turned off the glasses .
raymonde gently shook her mother 's shoulder , waking her up .
it 's time to go home .
everything is sorted .
we can sleep soundly in our beds tonight , thanks to you . ''
i asked the vallin brothers to bring the rock cylinder to the villa leblanc the next day , when we would try to open it .
seeing their pleased faces , i knew it had been the right thing to do .
raymonde helped her mother outside , while jacques ran up the road to get my porsche .
as we waited , i held raymonde 's hand and looked at the stars .
she whispered in my ear .
you were so brave , saving my mother .
and me , i guess .
i ca n't believe you jumped ives vallin but you did and you saved us .
and before that , with norton .
you were there when it counted .
i love you , paul sirenne . ''
suddenly , the stars looked much brighter .
i was moving along at great speed .
the sounds i heard were strange , muted .
i was dreaming again !
i opened my eyes to find myself underwater , slicing through it at great speed without any physical effort .
inexplicably , i had no problem breathing .
i saw fish darting away in the deepening waters .
i went deeper until i could hardly see anything at all .
another type of sight took over .
everything became clearer without being brighter .
i perceived every rock , sharply defined on the rapidly approaching sandy bottom .
i did n't think i was using my eyes .
i veered at the last minute , following the seabed .
rock cliffs appeared on my left .
i turned and went down a side canyon , then another one .
the cliffs flew by at a rapid pace , closing in .
there was a dead end .
in a flash it was gone , replaced by a monstrous owl , his giant beak open .
he was going to cut me in half .
i saw a yellowish light in his eyes , a light i had seen before .
his beak kept getting closer and closer .
i woke up screaming , covered in sweat .
raymonde was shaking me , a concerned look on her face .
what was that all about , paul ?
it was a dream .
a very bizarre dream . ''
i could not refute the first dream had been prophetic , presaging the moment when raymonde and i entered the bunker .
if this second dream was predicting the future in the same fashion , then i would soon be encountering a giant undersea owl with glowing eyes that would bite me to death .
i was missing something .
exhausted from the day and from the ordeal in my dream , i lay back down next to raymonde and fell into deep slumber .
raymonde and i had breakfast in bed the next morning .
we decided to keep the dreams between us for the time being , not knowing exactly how to explain them .
mrs leblanc had slept in , overwrought by the recent events .
we were both worried about her .
she insisted she was fine , or would be , once she 'd had some rest .
we 'd been spinning theories from the start .
some of them were beginning to unravel .
for example , the vallins brothers were not villains .
they were simply trying to protect their heritage .
if old man vallin was a loyal etretatais then we had to re evaluate his reasons for blowing up the fort .
i had thought an enemy of leblanc paid old man vallin to destroy it .
now i was not so sure .
we were up and showered by ten , heading down to the restaurant , my jet lag finally abated .
waking up next to raymonde these past few days had made me realize how difficult it would be to leave her side , when i returned home to canada .
we had been acting and thinking as one since the beginning of this adventure and i could not imagine being apart from her .
from where i sat in the restaurant , i saw the two vallins arrive in their beat up old truck .
i could hardly fail to notice they had dressed in their sunday best , trying to make a better impression .
ives vallin was proudly carrying the rock cylinder .
i activated my glasses , knowing the team would want a recording of this conversation .
coulter had anticipated our meeting and signed on immediately , despite the early hour for him .
mrs leblanc joined us in timely fashion , just as greeted the vallins .
i introduced both of them to coulter , by letting them wear my glasses for a few moments .
this display of technology seemed to impress them more than any other thing .
before we try to open that mysterious cylinder , i would very much like to hear about how you came to be doing this duty of yours ? ''
jacques vallin , apparently getting the honours from his brother , started his explanation i guess you know our great grandfather , old man vallin , was murdered at the destroyed fort of frefosse ?
what you may not know is that , jean vallin , our grandfather , found a gold coin in an old cigar box hidden under old man vallin 's mattress .
where did he get that coin ?
who gave it to him ?
more importantly were there more coins ?
there were few clues at the scene of the murder itself .
old man vallin had been beaten up real bad before he was thrown into the rocks to die .
but he did n't die right away .
no sir , our great grandfather was tough .
he hung on long enough to leave us a sign .
he placed his hand on his chest like this . ''
jacques vallin repeated the gesture from the night before .
it 's our family 's way of saying 'we swear loyalty . '
in his last moments , it was important for him to show he had stayed loyal .
we just did n't know who that was .
all we had was that gold coin . ''
and the money , brother , do n't forget about the money . ''
jacques gestured at ives to keep quiet .
i was n't going to forget about the money , i was just getting to it and you did n't give me the time .
there was about a thousand francs in the cigar box , which back then was a lot .
several times after that , when our family was in deep financial trouble , an envelope appeared in the mailbox , filled with money , always just enough to put us back on our feet . ''
how long did that go on ? ''
i asked .
the last envelope came about 1937 .
this is what my father told me , you understand , but i am sure about the coin because we still have it , although not with us today , '' jacques said .
because we did n't know you 'd want to see it .
through thick and thin , we never sold it , '' ives added .
jacques kept going , sending his brother a sidelong glance .
anyway , grandfather and old man vallin had never gotten along , mainly because grandfather was greedy .
he was not as moral as us . ''
no sir , not as moral , '' said ives .
he was very curious about the gold coin and tried for a long time to discover where it came from .
at first , he asked around town but people had nothing to say about it , so he went further afield , ending up in paris .
he made friends with a pawnbroker who had ears to the ground .
one day , grandfather received a note from the pawnbroker .
someone had sold more of those coins .
old coins they were , from the early 1200 's .
unfortunately , the description of the man who sold the coins was vague a well dressed man , slightly taller than average , and a bit thin .
nothing more .
over the years , more gold was sold but there was never enough information to figure out who was doing the selling , '' jacques paused to gulp some tea then continued .
by 1934 , father was living on his own .
him and grandfather did n't get along much but they did share interest in the gold coin , although not for the same reasons .
father wanted to find out what had happened to old man vallin .
that was all . ''
tell them about 1937 .
you 're getting sidetracked , '' ives prodded .
i will , brother , enough already .
in 1937 , the vallin family was having some tough times .
taxes were owed on the house again and grandfather had done a few too many bad deals .
one day , an envelope was found in the mailbox , nothing written on it , but plenty of cash inside .
in fact , there was enough to pay the back taxes and the bad debts , with two hundred francs left over for food and clothes .
that money put the vallins back on their feet .
at the very same time , grandfather got another note from the pawnbroker .
checking on the dates , they learned the gold had been sold three days before the money was dropped in our mailbox .
whoever did that had to be living around here , or at least keeping tabs on us , otherwise how would they know about our troubles , to the exact franc ? ''
his conclusions were valid .
whoever had helped them had a reason to do so .
could it be an act of retribution , guilt over old man vallin 's death ?
it certainly seemed possible .
jacques went on with his fascinating story grandfather never found out any more .
it was father who figured out the rest .
he was smart our father . ''
very smart , not like me , '' added ives .
you 're smart in your own ways , brother .
look at what you can do with cars .
it 's like magic .
anyway , father was the one who put things together .
it took him a long time though .
when the germans invaded france , he was mad through and through .
he wanted to fight them but there was no way he was going to leave etretat and go die in some god forsaken trench like all the others .
he stayed here to join the resistance and ended up doing so much , people never forgot about him .
some still nod to us when we pass them on the street , just because we 're his children . ''
not many of them do that nowadays but some still do , that 's true enough , '' confirmed ives .
we were n't around yet , because he had us when he was in his sixties .
anyway , he took risks he might not have taken if he 'd had family around .
he loved etretat and he was n't going to see it destroyed .
he was always putting his nose in places where it did n't belong .
he knew the story about the accidental destruction of the fort was made up .
the courts had swept it all under the rug , giving old man vallin a mere slap on the wrist .
and nobody suffered from the blowing up of that fort .
it spelled the beginning of the good years for etretat .
father figured someone in etretat had paid old man vallin to blow up the fort .
maybe paid the whole town to keep quiet .
the question was who ?
if he could find that out , father might get one step closer to figuring out who had killed old man vallin .
unfortunately , if anyone knew , they were n't talking . ''
jacques ' story was more than fascinating , it was revelatory !
when my friends and i originally found out about the fort 's destruction , we always assumed someone against etretat had done it .
later , hitler 's appearance in our theories had provided a convenient contender for the position .
now we knew someone local ordered old man vallin to blow it up .
its destruction had been meant as an act of protection , rather than one of destruction , to prevent others from getting into the caves .
jacques continued .
during the war , father kept figured out some pretty interesting things , like the ghost germans during world war 2 . ''
yeah , the ghost germans .
i really like this part , go on , brother , tell them . ''
hidden somewhere in etretat , was an entire platoon of germans .
you never saw them , you never talked to them but they were there .
bequilles , father 's friend , told him their leader was someone called weissmuller .
the ghost germans were bringing in trucks filled with things , almost every night .
father learned they were unloading most of those trucks on top of the aval cliff , right into the bunker built over the fort of frefosse .
there were always a lot of guards around the bunker , making it impossible to get near .
father thought there was an entrance to some underground lair under that bunker .
when father finally got into it , after the germans left , he found a freshly poured concrete floor .
the ghost germans vanished , as if they had never been .
when father told his superiors about the tunnels he found , it was as if no one wanted to hear about them .
they ordered father to shut up , telling him the tunnels were part of a big secret and had to be kept quiet .
when father asked what the secret was , he was told very few people knew what it was .
it was safer that way .
they did tell him old man vallin had acted out of loyalty .
he had faced the consequences willingly and had been killed by an unknown enemy trying to steal the secret .
so father got the answers he sought and found himself a new purpose in life to keep a watchful eye on etretat and to keep the secret safe .
when we were old enough , he swore us to secrecy and gave us the same task .
unfortunately , it was not enough .
we still wanted to know who had killed old man vallin , '' jacques finished .
o'flanahan and briar connected up and i gave them a brief rundown of the latest .
absolutely phenomenal , my boy .
i can not believe how much you have learned in such a short time .
unfortunately , i have some rather disturbing news for you .
are you sitting down ? ''
asked briar , an odd tone in his voice .
yes , i am .
what 's up ? ''
perhaps you could put this on speaker , so everyone may hear .
it 's too shocking to say it more than once .
i can hardly believe it myself , '' briar added .
opening my laptop , i connected the audio feed to the speakers .
briar 's voice came on , sounding tinny , with occasional background noises , maybe cars .
i 'm sorry to be so mysterious but i think we have reached a turning point , by confirming this is no wild goose chase .
however , we still had one massive question what was the link between the sirennes and the leblancs ?
well , i have figured out the connection . ''
come on , briar , stop patting yourself on the back and just tell us , '' interrupted o'flanahan .
ignoring him , briar continued when you found that copy of the hollow needle in leblanc 's library , you gave me the clue we needed , paul .
just like the note from your father 's book , it held a message intended for you .
my attention was attracted by both post scriptum .
yours was a real story ends near etretat lost until paul infers new ideas subtly you ought understand responsibility , necessarily after moiling etretat your father , paul sirenne while in leblanc 's copy , it said a real story ends near etretat lost until patrice infers new ideas subtly your friend paul sirenne '' the post scriptum in each note differed subtly .
your father 's had two extra lines about responsibility .
my question was why was it different ?
also the wording seemed awkward .
we had come across the same type of awkward wording before , '' continued briar .
raymonde interrupted when we were in perpignan , in grandfather 's last apartment , the scratched words on the wall . ''
quite right my dear , the scratched words on the wall .
i asked myself if the ps could hold a code as well ?
if you remember , the scratched words one gave us the name raymond lindon .
why do n't you try and figure out what this code gives us . ''
i assembled the first letter of each word .
arsene lupin is your name .
my great grandfather was arsene lupin ?
it ca n't be , lupin is not even real , '' i objected , amidst the excited voices of my friends .
i thought the same thing , my boy .
however , if you were to examine your own name , the one your family ensured you kept , you will discover the letters making up your name recombine into arsene lupin .
leblanc used the same trick repeatedly in his stories , creating endless anagrams .
you are apparently the descendant of arsene lupin , a fictitious character who has just become very real indeed ! ''
he finished .
this is too much , briar , '' exclaimed o'flanahan .
how could a fictitious character be sirenne 's ancestor ? ''
there is only one possible answer to that .
arsene lupin must be real , '' reasoned briar .
hold on there , '' i argued .
there is no way the lupin stories are real . ''
raymonde gazed at me in sympathy as briar replied .
you are correct , of course .
total invention , exactly like the hollow needle story , right ?
perhaps lupin represented a real person .
i have read a few articles regarding this topic .
many names have been examined , like marius jacob , but none was ever determined to be a perfect match .
it is likely the real lupin was not like the fictional one . ''
gee , that should make him easy to find , '' noted o'flanahan , a tinge of sarcasm tainting his voice .
let 's not forget raymond lindon wrote the book 'the secret of the kings of france , or the real identity of arsene lupin ' .
he obviously thought lupin was real , '' coulter added .
this investigation has uncovered far more than expected and it is hitting very close to home , i 'm afraid .
we have not even opened the rock cylinder yet .
who knows what further revelations it may contain ?
perhaps we should stop now , '' briar warned .
i appreciate your concern but i can not .
true , i 'm shocked by what we have uncovered .
however , our ancestors spent a great amount of effort preparing this and i am sure they did it for valid reasons .
i will not turn away , no matters my fears or concerns .
the great hunt will continue to its inevitable end , whatever that may be . ''
you have voiced what i felt in my heart . ''
raymonde added , holding my hand tightly .
despite the support , i was shaken to my core .
this revelation is attempting to rewrite my very identity and i am impelled to repudiate it .
i am not that man from long ago , a lupin , if he even exists .
i am paul sirenne that is my name .
perhaps they used this trick to convince me i was involved .
the letters of my great grandfather 's name may have been an anagram for arsene lupin but i am not that man .
i never was and i never will be . ''
mrs leblanc gave me a light hug in sympathy .
of course you 're not , paul .
we know that .
at least now you know you 're not related to the leblanc family , which would not have been good , considering your affection for my daughter . ''
her levity steadied me .
well , if you 're all done spouting these grandiose issues , let 's stop talking .
somebody open that cylinder , so we can get on with it ! ''
o'flanahan blasted impatiently .
ives got up , cradling the cylinder in his massive arms .
where should i put it ? ''
he asked .
i suggested we head out into the garden , where we could set up a table to work in the fresh air and in relative privacy .
mrs leblanc had draped a thick cloth over a folding card table , obtained from the villa 's basement .
ives vallin carefully placed the cylinder in the centre of the small table , next to my laptop .
everyone was looking at the thick stone tube .
coulter explained his progress i 've enhanced the object and was able to confirm it is indeed hollow .
best of all , there is something inside .
one notable characteristic along the shaft is a single thick line carved around its centre .
here , at this end , opposite the snake carving , you can see a stone plug in the centre .
what still escapes me is the method used to secure this plug . ''
why do n't you just admit you do n't know how to open it , '' said o'flanahan .
wait , wait , are the plug and the cylinder made of the same type of stone ? ''
briar asked excitedly using my glasses , i zoomed in on the rock .
they were made of different stone .
briar grew more excited still that plug is made of slate .
the cylinder appears to be basaltic granite .
if we heated ... '' ives vallin was jumping up and down , a big smile on his face .
i have an idea too , i have an idea .
it 's a good one , too .
brother , can i try it , please can i ? ''
he jabbered , hopping from foot to foot .
i had trouble stopping a smile from appearing on my face .
jacques answered his brother sternly , like a father would .
i do n't know , brother , it 's not my decision to make .
you should ask mr sirenne . ''
the big vallin turned his imploring face towards , removing his beret .
he held it in his hands , clasped in supplication .
mr sirenne , i just need a little thing from the truck .
it 'll only take a minute , can i go get it ?
i know it 'll work , i just know it . ''
i could not refuse .
i nodded and he took off running .
no sooner was he gone that briar re asserted himself gentlemen , let 's not be hasty .
the plug is made of slate .
if heated , slate will fragment and crack , since petroleum is one of its components .
you could place the plug over a controlled source of heat , like a propane torch .
the plug should eventually crack into smaller pieces . ''
briar , your idea is completely ridiculous .
there could be paper in there , old , dry paper .
it would burn up with the plug ?
seems like a bad idea , '' o'flanahan argued .
before briar could voice an objection , ives vallin returned , breathing hard , his hair wildly out of place from his race to the truck .
he lifted the stone cylinder and overturned it , laying it down on its side .
jacques , knowing his brother 's moods , tried asking a question but ives beat him to the punch watch this ! ''
he exclaimed .
he lifted a long handled five kilo hammer up into the air , handling it as if it were a toothpick .
i heard mrs leblanc 's sharp intake of a breath .
briar screamed in my ear wait , stop , we can burn ... '' i barely had time to grab the laptop before the hammer came down , smashing the cylinder right in the middle !
the poor card table was simply not able to deal with the massive blow and collapsed in two , crashing to the ground and taking the cylinder with it .
i sat there , stunned , as the dust settled from the tremendous impact .
jacques vallin was the first to recover , jumping up in rage and smacking his brother on the head , completely forgetting about his previous head injury .
ives clasped his head in pain as jacques screamed .
you idiot .
i keep telling you .
wait until we 've talked before acting , brother .
you have to wait . ''
no , hold on there , jacques , you 're being unfair .
look at the cylinder , '' raymonde said .
there , in the wreck of the card table , lay the cylinder , broken into two equal pieces , an ancient sheaf of papers , wrapped in oilcloth , spilling out of it .
ives ' face broke into a wide smile and he exclaimed see , see , brother , i was right after all . ''
setting the laptop down on an empty chair , i gave ives a light slap on the back .
good job , ives , good job ! ''
he beamed , overjoyed .
i gently pulled the sheaf of papers from the broken cylinder .
it was roughly rolled up , tied with rotting string .
opening it carefully , i revealed a neat , clean handwriting .
leblanc 's journal !
another round of coffee and tea had been served .
ives had the chance to explain .
he spoke slowly , trying to say it properly .
it was the shape , that 's what it was .
when brother was speaking , i was looking at the cylinder and it made me think of a spool .
it was narrower in the center , with a thick line circling the cylinder .
if i was to hit it in the middle with my best hammer , it should crack right along that line . ''
it seemed obvious in hindsight .
the cylinder was meant to be broken .
we had over complicated the whole thing .
there was a slight tension in the air , everyone wondering what we should next .
the thing we set out to find is finally ours leblanc 's journal .
if you are willing , i will read his journal out loud , so we may all discover what he wanted us to learn . ''
my final story by maurice leblanc patrice i have just left my beloved etretat .
all its wonders and its secrets , gone , just like that .
i am sure i will never see it again .
this is a one way trip .
always has been , i would venture to say .
somehow , my trip has been rather more adventurous than most .
overall , i would have preferred a calmer life .
i can only hope , when this horrendous burden is finally exposed , my peers will judge me more favourably than i have judged myself .
by this point , i have done everything in my power , to put things right .
i probably will never know if my trap will work , if the monster will fall for so vain a ploy , but i must believe in its success .
the alternative is unthinkable .
i am writing this journal , this confession , my son , hoping that , by presenting my view , by telling you how events unfolded , i can explain my shortcomings through these meagre words .
normally a story like this would start at the beginning but for you to have found this text , certain things must already be known .
therefore , the starting point of my adventure has to be the day when i received the letter .
if you will allow me , i will relate to you the events , which have led me , step by step , to this very moment , forced to run away from my beloved home in fear and desperation .
ergo the letter and the man who wrote it .
the letter was in german , which was intriguing , because this letter 's author , hister , had to know i was not fluent in german , making the letter an arrogant act .
by pure coincidence , i had recently finished working with germany to publish my latest novel .
as a result , i was sufficiently acquainted with the language to translate the letter .
he wanted to meet in order to discuss certain things about my book , the hollow needle .
his letter stated he had found archaeological evidence which indicated there was something more to my novel than fiction .
many are the times i have cursed myself for writing that story .
if i had only known , back then , the truth behind etretat 's legends , i would never have drawn attention to it in so obvious a fashion .
yet , in my defence , what i had done in the hollow needle was the same process i used in my previous book and all the others since .
no other person had ever noticed what i built into the stories .
hister was the only one .
however , for the letter to arrive at the exact time when my own research was finally giving me some results , now that was a wonder .
it was this coincidence which drove me to reply , not to accept his query but to refuse it , which i did in no uncertain terms , given the rudimentary grasp i had of his language .
he must have felt my negative response was too strong , that i was hiding something .
it is the only possibility which would explain why he came despite my refusal .
up to this point i had pursued my research in absolute secrecy , hiding my activities with feigned illness .
while people thought i was convalescing in bed , i was wandering the hillsides , in search of the secret cochet had alluded to .
i met the priest cochet only once but what a meeting it was .
there was no mistaking our like minds , the connection immediate .
i was very young , full of energy , feeling like the world was mine to seize .
he was an older , more introspective man .
the wisdom of those years had enabled his search for the hidden jewel in etretat .
he explained the original purpose of the tunnels .
i had known about them but had not realised their true significance .
we discussed the excavations and his discoveries , in particular the ones he kept to himself .
he knew his time was limited on this earthly plane and desperately needed a successor to carry on his search , someone equal to the task , capable of life long secrecy .
his friends , monseigneur billard , father gelis and father boudet each suggested this research was not a waste of time .
rather the opposite , in fact .
that meeting , so long ago , seeded a purpose in me .
it kept growing until it blossomed into obsession .
i wrote a fictional story around it , as others had done before , and , in my folly , included the fort of frefosse .
it was inevitable it be mentioned but , by attracting attention to it , i put in motion events that would involve the entire world .
for it was the fort that was the key , of this i was certain .
i had recently gone visiting the royal library to examine ancient documents concerning the fort of frefosse .
it was there i found the plans for the fort , as presented to francis the first by guillaume bude .
it was there i saw the original overview of the dungeon , that i understood the geometric symbols on the walls .
i drew them on the plan , circle , rectangle , triangle .
so simple .
i made the decision to remove this drawing .
i could not bring myself to destroy it , so placed it in a file of similar architectural drawings , hiding it in plain sight , my favourite trick .
i returned home in exultation , to be confronted by johann hister 's letter , threatening to expose everything .
that was my state of mind when i sent my response .
i wrote quickly , reacting harshly , instead of using the usual caution and care .
that was my mistake and i admit it here freely , patrice .
there is no denying it .
because , he came he arrived , one early morning , while i was examining the fort from the outside , calculating its original size , to discover the exact position of the dungeon .
a noise startled me .
i turned to find a young man looking at me .
despite his unremarkable appearance , being slight physically , he exuded an arrogant confidence .
i felt instantly repelled by him .
nodding perfunctorily to the stranger , i walked away , as if i were done with my work and leaving .
he stopped me with a sudden hand gesture and spoke haltingly , in badly accented french i am johann hister .
sorry to have come .
but must talk . ''
the intensity in his eyes was one i had not seen in a long time , not since i had met the priest cochet .
unlike cochet , i distrusted this johann hister .
his being here at this specific time made me distinctly uncomfortable .
i had kept my own counsel to that point and still believed that was my best , and only , course of action .
i reacted angrily , screaming , gesturing for him to leave .
he tried to talk again .
i remained obstinate , ignoring his attempts .
he grew red faced , letting go a jet of injurious german insults .
in his outburst , i saw a gleam of such cold hatred , such malevolence , i became afraid he would do me physical harm .
i braced for such an assault but it never came .
instead , he left without another word , glaring until he turned away .
i stopped my work for the day and returned home .
i had been unnerved by the timing of hister 's appearance because i now was convinced i had found the entranceway of the cave system .
it was in the dungeon , of this i was positive .
not in the dungeon of today , however .
that was nothing but a converted wine cellar , yet another false trail .
my research determined the real dungeon entrance had been bricked up long ago .
there was an exterior door accessing the servant 's quarters from the courtyard .
this door led to an extremely curious feature a sudden turn in the corridor , the purpose of which was not evident from the building 's architecture .
closer examination revealed expert brickwork had been done at this turning point .
i was convinced this was the way to the ancient dungeon .
despite my concerns about johann hister , i returned the next day with tools , determined to get out of sight before spying eyes could notice my presence .
earlier that year , i had rented the fort through a third party , an expensive thing to do at the time but necessary to keep things quiet .
a pickaxe served me well to remove the bricks .
within four hours , i broke through the thick wall and flashed my lantern into the hole , seeing a long dusty hallway with a descending staircase at its end .
i redoubled my energy and soon cleared a hole big enough to crawl to the other side .
carrying a small shovel , my lantern , and a spare candle in my back pocket , i headed along the dark , echoing hallway .
it was utterly devoid of any feature , solidly built of large stone blocks .
dust caked the floor and made me cough .
i walked slowly , approaching the staircase .
halfway there , i saw an oddly shaped doorway on my right , leading to a narrow staircase , its upper landing lost in the darkness .
the odd , oblique construction implied it was a secret passage , probably leading to a camouflaged entrance in some room upstairs .
an alternate access point might explain the bricked up corridor .
returning to the corridor , i continued my way to the end .
this slightly curving staircase was much older than the other one .
its steps , carved from the bedrock , were deeply worn .
descending past the foundations of the fort , i noticed various rock strata in the ceiling above my head , with a layer of crumbly stone in the centre .
rock dust littered the floor , evidence of continuing disintegration .
sum reaching the bottom of the staircase , i entered a round room .
there was little evidence of it ever being a dungeon .
more of a storeroom , perhaps .
it was large and circular , ten metres in diameter , with five columns supporting the vaulted ceiling .
the columns dissected the room , placed like the five points of a star .
using the small shovel as a broom , i carefully swept the dust out of the way .
standing back , i examined the columns , looking for geometric symbols .
i saw the circle first , carved at head height in the column to the left of the entrance .
the one opposite that , to the right of the entrance , bore a rectangle .
bringing my eyes back to the left again , i saw a triangle on the next column .
exactly as anticipated .
the final two columns had geometric designs , instead of simple symbols .
one was a rectangle lying down inside a triangle .
the last column , opposite the dungeon 's entrance , had three triangles next to each other , the middle one slightly elevated above the other two .
it was a code .
solving the riddle the original roman fort had once been much bigger and heavily fortified .
during the francis years , its shape had been refined , due to francis ' burgeoning interest in architecture .
at the time , the fort 's original location had seemed to be a most curious choice .
i had gone to rome to search for documents concerning this , which had led me to the crypts of the vatican .
through special dispensation , i was allowed to peruse ancient roman letters and documents .
i found one in which approval for a fort was being requested .
this letter was from a legatus legionis named manius stertinius gallicus , the man in charge of the local garrison .
using this information as a starting point , i came to believe another element had been involved smugglers !
while exploring the town of etretat , i had found a corner stone on one of the oldest buildings , which was obtained from the fort after a change in its layout .
to my surprise and great interest , i noticed three geometrical shapes roughly carved into the stone .
a circle with a rectangle and triangle inside .
to the untrained eye , it looked like a childish drawing of a house .
however , previous research indicated this to be a smuggler 's sign .
located at the fort of frefosse , it had shown the way to the secret entrance of a smuggler 's lair unlike any other in history .
in addition , through cochet , i knew secret tunnels ran through those cliffs .
what more proof did i need ?
returning my attention to the columns , i played with possible combinations of the geometrical shapes , hoping to unlock the hidden doorway which had to be there .
the smuggler 's sign had shown a rectangle and triangle inside a circle .
the circle was easy , as the room itself was circular .
i noticed the columns were oddly positioned , not equidistant from each other .
perhaps they had some other , less obvious purpose .
connecting four of the columns with straight , imaginary lines , i visualised a simple rectangle , mentally adding a triangle above the rectangle , with the fifth column as its top point , exactly the design i had seen carved on the corner stone .
the resulting triangle , short and long , outlined an area on the floor .
this was exactly the same triangle shape as that on the fourth column .
visualizing a smaller rectangle inside this triangle , i realised this would create three triangles , one above the other two , the same design carved on the fifth column .
looking closer at the dungeon floor , i saw thin lines duplicating this design , unnoticed before , hidden in the complex tile patterns .
that was the clue i needed .
i rolled a large heavy barrel onto the triangle to my right and stood on the left one .
there was an audible 'click ' as soon as my weight pressed down on the triangle .
i noticed the column beneath the ceiling line had moved into the wall .
reaching out , i pushed on it .
it swung in , smoothly and silently .
it was not a column it was a door !
lupin would have been proud of me .
my excitement could not have been more intense .
after all these years , i had finally found the entrance to the caves beneath the fort .
i heard a sound behind me , something like a choked cough .
covering my lantern , i stood still in the dark , listening for the slightest noise .
after several minutes of total silence , i relaxed my vigilance and walked through the revealed doorway , finding a curving staircase .
i descended , my footsteps echoing hollowly .
i soon reached bottom , a natural stone landing .
raising the lantern , i illuminated a large chamber , with openings in the distance , leading to further caves .
a clutter of broken amphorae littered one corner .
further to my right , a long hallway headed off into the darkness .
i wandered along the corridor for about ten metres when a gleam caught my eye , a reflection of light from the right .
i quickly ascertained i was looking at a narrow opening in the wall .
squeezing in , i found myself in a small room , about three metres square .
there was a crack in the far wall .
the bright gleam had come from there .
i walked over to it but stopped when i heard another noise .
turning around , i saw something indistinct coming down .
i dodged the oncoming object as best i could but received a staggering blow nonetheless .
i fell to the ground hard , a cloud of dust all around , my eyesight fading in and out .
although everything was a blur and fading fast , i recognised hister 's slight silhouette in the light cast by my lantern , holding my shovel high in the air .
his illuminated face held a terrible rictus of hatred .
he hit me again , after which , i knew no more !
the treachery of johann hister i woke in the dark .
my head was pounding terribly and i was choking from the thick dust .
i had been the victim of foul play .
hister had hit me from behind .
judging by the feel of the large gash on my head , he had probably thought me dead or dying .
i certainly felt near death .
the air was stuffy and hot , lacking oxygen .
i could see nothing and felt around for the lantern , growing panicky .
my senses slowly returning , i remembered the spare candle i had stuffed in my back pocket .
finding it , i fished around my jacket for the small packet of matches i always kept there .
i felt such thankfulness for that small flame it could hardly be believed .
i quickly put it to the wick of the candle and light sprang forth , although not as brightly as i had hoped , lacking sufficient air for a proper flame .
despite the dim light , i noted the crack with the bright gleam from before , was now a large gaping hole , revealing a stone recess .
it had been hidden by a cleverly applied coat of painted plaster on a fitted wooden frame .
over the centuries , the plaster had dried out , falling away in places , revealing the natural shelf behind it .
something had been hidden in there .
it was now gone , surely stolen by that murderous hister .
examining the recess , i found a small sack , in the deepest part .
pulling it out , the rotten cloth ripped , spilling out a handful of gold coins .
i had been fooled and nearly killed by a thief .
with a sigh and a groan , i stood up and walked unsteadily out of the small chamber , my legs feeling like bars of indian rubber .
i headed toward the entrance staircase , breathing heavily in the stuffy air , and protecting the tiny , naked candle flame with my hand .
i reached the column door quickly but found it closed .
despite pulling and prodding , i simply could not get it open again .
desperate , i returned to the great cave below .
i knew my candle would not last forever and i had no other .
my pounding head and a weak feeling in my limbs told me i had other things to worry about .
i saw several openings into a maze of other caverns .
it would be easy to get lost in here .
looking at the ground , i found a piece chalk .
scratching it on the wall provided me with a method to mark my passage .
i entered the first cave to my left but left right away , as it had no other exits .
i saw rotting bags on the ground , which held ancient grain .
all around , items lay about , a small casket , wine bottles , rum , statues , yet all i could think of was freedom .
i had yearned to find this place my entire life .
now my every thought was to leave .
i heard the sound of water on my right and could smell it as well , salty and damp , giving hope a way to the channel could be found .
i followed the smell , noting the floor was worn by the passage of countless feet .
the size of the complex was incredible .
each cave had treasures to reveal .
after a long way down , i arrived at an underground lake .
its brackish water suggested it might have an opening to the channel , although i could not see one .
feeling increasingly unwell , i staggered back the way i came .
i noticed the worn steps forked into two separate trails .
choosing the left one , i found a round tunnel lined with ancient bricks .
it was too late to turn back i had to go this way .
my senses were fading in and out .
i walked through water , then waded .
my candle was growing dim and i was feeling dizzy , having to rest every few steps .
when i arrived at a dead end , i truly despaired .
on the left , a narrow tunnel lay hidden in the shadows .
i could barely fit through it .
at its end , i found a stone doorway , large stone pins holding it in place , with a bar sticking out from the wall .
playing with the bar with my waning strength , i was able to push it upwards .
the door opened and i fell through its opening .
i knew where i was this was one of the cliff tunnels mentioned by the priest cochet , located under the amont cliff .
i could make out a faint dot of light at its end .
the timing could not be better , as both my candle and i were on our last legs .
unfortunately , my tribulations were not over .
when i arrived at the end , i found myself about seven metres in the air .
the cliff had eroded away , removing the last few metres of tunnel .
there was no choice but to hang down and let myself fall .
i fell badly , twisting my ankle and knocking myself out on the rocks below .
when i came to , i was in the house of old man vallin .
by writing down these words , i have been reminded of the turmoil of those times , so long ago .
the intervening years had softened the impact of those events .
while i can not fault any specific decision i made , it all went astray , no matter what i did .
painful as it may be to retrace my footsteps , i must continue , for this was just the beginning .
my adventures were far from over .
an unexpected friendship when i woke up , i was lying on a cot and covered by an old smelly blanket .
there was something tightly wrapped over my head , which was throbbing .
my ordeal suddenly came back and i sat up .
a strong wave of dizziness hit me .
a hand on my shoulder steadied me and , in that way , i became aware i was not alone in the room .
sitting in a tattered chair next to the cot , was an old man , his face wrinkled and covered with a three day old beard .
the sour odour of whisky emanated from him .
when his face broke into a concerned smile , i understood he meant no harm .
he had been combing the beach when i fell onto the rocks about sixty metres away .
he had dragged me to his cart and placed me in the back , covering me with a few potato sacks to keep me warm .
he brought me back to his home and tended to my wounds .
i had been unconscious for more than a day .
while i rested , he told me about himself .
he admitted being a poacher but he was still a proud man with strong morals , having fallen on hard times .
i asked him why he had not simply returned me home .
he replied he had seen me often , sneaking about the hills and cliffs of etretat , when common talk said i was sick and resting at home .
suspecting i wanted to keep my activities under wraps , he had kept my accident quiet .
it took another day before i was able to summon enough strength to return home .
i was sure my wife would be worried about my unexplained absence .
surprisingly , during these few days of rest , a strong friendship was forged with old man vallin .
it was as unlikely a friendship as it was timely .
i had shared my discovery with him , knowing instinctively he could be trusted .
i desperately needed a friend as well as help in dealing with this terrible turn of events .
i had uncovered the secret of etretat , only to inadvertently reveal it to the would be murderer , johann hister .
he had already plundered some of the cave 's treasures and i was convinced he would come back for more .
the more time passed , the more i grew concerned about the implications of my discovery .
this cave held incredible treasures , many of them historical in nature .
premature release of its discovery would attract treasure hunters of the worst sort .
i need only refer to hister for proof of this assertion .
whatever the caves contained would vanish in the night .
france would be robbed of its heritage before it even learned of it .
hister had planned his assault long before i had even entered the cave .
he had waited for the best moment to catch me unaware .
luckily , his vicious blows had not succeeded .
however , my personal fate paled into insignificance .
a murderous thief now knew the way into the caves .
it was my responsibility , my duty , to right this wrong .
old man vallin swore to help me .
i arranged to meet him in a few days in order to return to the fort .
in the meantime , vallin would contact some of his friends , to keep an eye out for suspicious strangers about town .
if hister was still in the area , he would be found and dealt with .
vallin arrived at the fort , a shotgun cradled in his arms .
he considered this situation as seriously as i did .
walking into the servant 's corridor , i found all evidence of my previous presence erased .
the wall had been rebuilt there was no sign of the wheelbarrow , or of my tools .
hister had taken his time before vanishing into the night .
he must have thought me truly dead .
we broke through the wall easily , as i knew exactly where to hit .
soon after , old man vallin and i arrived in the dungeon .
to my relief , the column opened as before .
with the stronger light from the miner 's hat , it was easy to see why i had been unable to open the door when stuck inside the caves .
the lack of light from my candle had prevented me from noticing the long rods of stone used as locks .
i have long felt foolish for having been so close to the way out , yet not finding it .
of course , had i done so , it is likely i would have encountered hister bricking the wall back up .
in my weakened state , i would not have stood a chance against him .
we became aware of an inexplicable glowing of the walls when fresh air entered into the long sealed room but it faded after we closed the door behind us .
i was not sure what to think of the phenomena .
it was transient and we had other things on our minds .
without a word , we went down the curving staircase , reaching the main chamber and headed into the impressive long hallway .
entering into the small chamber again , i found my small shovel on the ground , noting a dark stain on its edge and a large pool of drying blood on the ground .
my blood .
it had been a close thing .
leaving the chamber , we saw paintings on the wall , high up and to the left side .
they were magnificent , prehistoric drawings of animals , with groups of hunters dancing around them .
we saw evidence of ancient fires in another corner , surrounded by piles of flint flakes .
everywhere i looked , i saw evidence of roman presence .
there were column supports shoring up weaker parts of the cave roof .
i saw niches , carved at regular intervals into the tunnel walls , which must have held skeletons at some point .
stone stairs had been installed in many areas where the cave floor fell away too sharply .
the geological features of the cave implied water had been the original creator of this complex .
however , the sheer multitude of interconnected caves implied a latticework of cracks must have existed before any water got in here .
french workers had also been here , confirming francis ' discovery of the caves during his renovations of the fort .
he must have been the one who ordered the sealing up of the dungeon access .
we found one large chamber transformed into a grand reception hall , with tapestries hanging on every wall .
the floor was worn smooth and hard .
two large chandeliers hung from ancient chains .
at the end of the room , a large chair was positioned on a raised platform , looking like a throne .
everything was highly ornate , intended to impress royalty .
going on , we chose the tunnel leading to the large body of brackish water .
with the brighter light of our miner 's hat , we were able to appreciate the true size of this particular cave .
it was big enough to hold a small lake .
looking at the roof , we saw a dip in the northern direction that might form a large tunnel to the open sea .
however , no light came from there .
whatever had existed before was now collapsed .
retracing our steps , we came upon the trail where i had changed direction .
i had been in a bad state when i last staggered through here and had missed much , my concern being survival rather than discovery .
we undertook the journey , our eyes alert .
about halfway through , deep under etretat , we saw a tunnel fork away to the right but ignored it for the moment .
eventually we reached the small cave , carved into the side of the tunnel .
its entrance was cleverly positioned , which might explain why i had such trouble locating it in the first place .
stored inside , we found our first real treasure .
a corner of the small room had a collapsed , plaster covered cache , similar to the one plundered by hister , only this one was still stuffed full of rotting leather bags , each holding either precious stones or gold and silver coins .
a heavy , hinged box , forced into the narrowest part of the crevice , held various gold objects , looking like the spoils of theft or piracy .
a smaller box held a variety of ancient gold rings .
our excitement was palpable .
i filled our food basket with as many leather sacks as i could carry .
before leaving the small cave , i reiterated what might happen to etretat if it were ever known what riches lay hidden here .
old man vallin spit in his hand and shook mine .
looking straight into my eyes , he held up his other hand , folding in his two middle fingers , leaving the outside ones extended .
he held it against his chest , waiting for me to do the same .
then , we swore a solemn oath to secrecy .
we would use these riches to protect the caves .
vallin took a single coin to remind him of his oath .
he was to receive further payment later on .
we left the room and followed the tunnel to its end , where the stone door lay in wait .
i had been frantic for sunlight when i arrived here before .
this time , we went the other way to see where it might lead us .
after a long walk along the dark tunnel , we found ourselves going uphill until we reached the end of the tunnel , exiting into a small wooded glade .
seeing a building nearby , i recognised the restaurant known as 'the dungeon ' , a name that flew in the face of coincidence .
we had travelled an incredibly long way , coming out on the other side of etretat .
our travels had also left us with a fantastic revelation we now had another way into the caves !
a decision is reached later that evening , we reviewed the day .
we were stunned by the size of the cave system and by the magnitude of what lay hidden there .
i was also singularly conscious there was another man out there who knew of the caves .
although i hoped i had seen the last of hister , deep down , i knew he would return .
it was vallin who came up with the most logical solution .
we were the only ones who knew of the second entrance to the caves .
even if someone were able to find their way into the tunnel in the glade , they would never find the hidden doorway that led under etretat .
if we were to destroy the original entrance , hister would never be able to find his way in again .
it was a good suggestion but could we be so bold ?
to destroy the fort of frefosse , a veritable landmark in etretat ?
since this act could not be hidden , it would be done in plain sight .
vallin had a working knowledge of explosives , sufficient to ensure the complete obliteration of the dungeon .
he felt confident he could come up with a sufficiently convincing cover story , given his existing reputation .
i would remain in the background , using my influence and our newfound funds to protect him from the legal repercussions .
we were in agreement .
that is how we arrived at the inconceivable but necessary decision of blowing up the fort of frefosse .
all through this journal , i have shown you how each decision led to the other , linking into an inevitable chain of events .
we had no other choice !
a friend is contacted it took only a few days to get ready , with old man vallin pestering the local militia effectively , preparing to carry out our carefully laid plans .
as for myself , i knew i had to enlist the help of yet another in our plans .
i had long thought about this step , because it would involve someone who already had a dangerous reputation .
despite my concerns about the outcome , i sent a message along the usual route , through raymond lindon , asking a.l .
to come and meet me , on the following evening .
now , i know what you 're thinking , patrice , so let me put a few things to rest .
yes , my character was based on a real person .
he is not much like my creation but he is a man of high intellect and of immense resources .
because of his desire for anonymity , i will not name him , even here .
i will simply refer to him as a.l .
he arrived on time , using the small gate door to which only he had the key .
we had shared more than one adventure .
in the course of our time spent together , we had cemented a friendship , despite our differing viewpoints .
after the usual small talk and tea , i explained why i had asked him here .
the look on his face was priceless , when i revealed my investigation , the danger i had been in , and then , my discoveries .
he laughed in delight when i explained how i had solved the mechanism of the dungeon door .
however , he became thoughtful when i explained our planned solution , the destruction of the fort itself .
he thought deeply for a while then nodded , directing me to contact raymond lindon again and to engage his services .
we could trust lindon and he was perfectly placed to assist us with the repercussions of vallin 's plan .
accustomed to money and high society since his early years , due to his affiliations with a.l. , lindon had chosen to devote himself to legal studies .
gifted with a keen intellect , lindon already had many connections to men of power and the maturity to know when to use these connections .
the next morning , i went to see lindon , who had already been briefed about the situation .
a.l .
certainly acted fast .
lindon had drafted a more complete version of events .
he knew of a company anxious to purchase the fort property in order to open a golf resort .
it was an impossible request because etretat 's inhabitants would never acquiesce to the fort 's removal .
anticipating the fallout from our plans once the fort was destroyed , lindon felt he could obtain economic and public support from them , which would help smooth over the problems for vallin .
i was impressed by lindon and retained him as my advisor on the spot .
he became my friend and my right hand man in a secret battle that was to last for more than thirty years .
the die is cast inevitably , a date was set .
i was jittery throughout that fateful day and , when the explosion finally happened , it was more of a relief than anything else .
many thought there had been an earthquake , until the news reached them .
the incident flooded the local papers and old man vallin had a pretty rough time at first .
he bore it well , with honour and silence .
lindon was in the background through it all .
he hired the lawyer who defended vallin , supporting the accidental nature of the fort 's destruction .
it did not hurt that lindon knew the judge personally and had met with him privately the previous evening .
vallin was found innocent of wrongdoing , receiving a mild slap on the hands , and was sent on his way .
rumours abounded but , with the judgement passed , little could be done .
events returned to normal .
it was the calm before the storm .
murder is done it happened on a friday evening , late in the night .
a horrible scream was heard by mr lanoix around midnight .
the state of vallin 's body , when he was found , was frightful .
he had been severely beaten , tortured for hours before his death .
he was thrown , barely alive , down into the jumble of stones , all that remained of the fort , left to die , stuck between two jagged boulders .
lindon was able to view the body discreetly .
old man vallin 's last act was to clench his hand against his chest , with the two middle fingers folded in .
that act could have but one meaning for me .
he had died without revealing the existence of the second entrance .
it also meant someone had tried to get him to reveal that information before killing him .
there could only be one such man .
this is when i first felt the weight of the enormous burden of guilt , which i have shouldered since .
we had decided together to blow up the fort but it was vallin who took the blame .
now , because of his decision , he was dead !
vallin had left behind a son , who knew nothing of his father 's recent actions .
after a brief talk with lindon , we decided to keep the son in the dark .
however , in the following years , i kept tabs on his family and arranged to have money anonymously mailed to them , to help during difficult financial times .
it was the least my conscience would allow me to do .
after vallin 's death , both lindon and i kept close counsel indeed .
we felt besieged by an invisible villain , looking for a way to get at us and to the treasure in the caves .
lindon contacted many friends and created a string of watchers all around etretat .
no stranger could enter our small valley without being seen .
it was through this growing 'net ' that we learned of hister 's next foray into our territory .
world war 1 had begun by then and i was often called away to fulfill the growing obligations of my chosen public profession .
lindon was also growing in fame but it was of a different sort , found in the court of law .
i had long since moved my wife from etretat to paris , choosing to use the villa only as a summer residence .
i often returned there alone , to conduct more research into the caves .
war is declared it was during one of these visits that hister attacked us .
i always took the precaution of informing lindon when i arrived in town and he would contact the net , placing them at the highest alert .
i was at my summer villa , sitting in the office , when i heard a knock at the door .
three large men confronted me , men i knew to be employed by lindon .
they were apologetic for the late hour but something was going on .
a motorcycle had been heard in the distance .
following that , two men wearing german uniforms were seen , prowling past the homes in the north .
they were staying off the main roads but had been seen nonetheless .
i armed myself and lay down in wait with my companions .
my nerves were stretched to the breaking point .
violence had never been my cup of tea , yet here i was , being thrust into the thick of it .
i had no one else to blame , it was my own doing .
at two in the morning , i heard some shots far away in the distance then , later , more shots followed by screams .
following that , i heard the faint sounds of a motorcycle leaving the area at high speed .
lindon was at my door the next morning , a sombre look on his face .
two of our men had been killed .
the attackers had come prepared .
they were skilful and had been well armed .
from the description of the assailants , one had probably been hister and the other , an unknown , taller man .
we compensated the families monetarily but it was not enough for my conscience .
my burden of guilt continued to grow .
although our country was in a state of war , there was another war going on , a hidden one , between hister and myself .
both sides had funds , coming from the same source , the caves .
hister 's funds may have been stolen but the wealth was real nonetheless .
this first attack had likely been intended as a foray they came , found us prepared and were repulsed .
however , they had killed and escaped unharmed .
they now knew we were waiting for them .
they also had to know i was still alive and that hister 's attempted cover up had failed .
i now understood the first strike of this hidden war had been his letter .
hister always intended to take whatever it was he found , by force or treachery .
he knew what he was looking for and he was not going to stop until he got it .
the only problem was me , standing in his way .
we were engaged in a war to the death , hidden in the shadows .
those who helped me believed in what they were doing , protecting their land from these invaders .
over the succeeding years , this group of people , 'the net ' , took pride in this heritage .
they would die protecting it , protecting me .
with each subsequent visit , it became apparent the caves held much more than treasure .
they caves had been occupied for thousands of years , used for ancient ceremonies and for ritual sacrifice .
i had barely begun to plumb their depths .
they went on for tremendous distances , deep into the bedrock .
each new cave we found was filled with yet more mysterious relics .
they had to be protected !
the net suffers a blow hister 's second attack , a full year later , was nothing like the first one .
he came on the sly , accompanied by the same man as before .
they moved silently through the night , a stormy one , easy to hide in .
they killed with knives and without conscience .
they had come prepared , having identified several members of the net , brutally killing them and their entire families .
their grisly task completed , they invaded my villa unnoticed , made their way to my room , stabbing my sleeping body three times in the chest .
however , it was not me .
it was another member of the net , claude gislain , who was of my size and appearance .
i had thought the precaution excessive when lindon suggested it .
hister left etretat , convinced he had succeeded in his goals .
they were careless only for a single moment upon exiting the villa .
a sudden lightning strike revealed them to the neighbour 's watchful eye .
a general alarm was sounded .
every road was blocked and the two murderous fiends were trapped in the etretat valley .
horrified by what they had done , we wanted revenge .
everyone was up and part of the chase , a large group searching the valley , house by house .
etretat was now truly at war !
we felt sure they were trapped but our enemies had anticipated our every move .
abandoning all attempts at subtlety , using a machine gun , they mowed down several men blocking a road , making a run for the weakest part of our line .
once they were past the crest of the valley , they were gone , leaving a veritable massacre behind .
they killed more than thirty people that night .
we held a meeting with everyone involved and it was agreed , once again , to keep the event a secret , despite our sorrow and horror at the unexpected carnage of our loved ones .
the bodies were buried , the deaths listed as accidents , or from natural causes .
every house was cleaned up and etretat returned to its defensive position , licking its wounds , determined to win out in the end .
the interlopers ' attack had been too precise , too specific .
they knew exactly where and who everyone was .
only lindon 's thoroughness had saved me .
hister 's first foray had taught them as well as us .
i 'm sure his face was crestfallen when he learned i was still alive and unharmed after stabbing me three times .
my heart ached for claude gislain , who paid the real price for hister 's treachery .
much time had passed between attacks .
perhaps it was difficult for hister to get here .
when the germans made further inroads into france , dispatch riders were used to bring crucial information from command to outpost .
some of these dispatch riders travelled near here .
if hister was a german soldier , his furtive attacks might have been carried out under the cover of genuine orders .
i became convinced this was the truth of it .
after all , he had been in uniform during his forays .
hister was using the great war as cover for his own twisted plans , trying to sneak back in here and take possession of the caves and their loot .
he had enlisted a helper , as i had , but his was a most deadly helper .
whereas i employed farmers and fishermen , hister 's helper was a trained killer .
because of these two attacks , etretat separated from the rest of france , becoming a country unto itself , alert for any attack , protecting its own , ever vigilant .
the net never had more meaning than during those days .
yet , on the surface , to all others , etretat was a quiet little fishing village , with healthy tourism , a peaceful resort , the exact opposite of what lay hidden below .
hister 's third and final foray was an equal measure of success and failure .
by that point , the net had refined its methods , using affiliations with other groups , such as the abbey , to provide advance notice .
as a result , hister 's invasion attempt was detected from the very first moment .
a contingent of armed men was alerted within minutes .
before hister and his cohort had penetrated more than a hundred metres into the valley , the net was already closing in .
our enemies , sharp as ever , retreated immediately , knowing the game was up .
several volleys of shots followed them on their way out and at least one found its mark , wounding hister in the leg !
there was a celebration in etretat that night .
in the morning , we were back at our posts , waiting for the next attack .
that attack took twenty years to come and was the most horrible thing ever perpetrated by a single man in the history of the world !
caves , tunnels and destiny i continued my exploration of the caves , converting more treasure into a growing fund .
a.l .
was my partner more than once in these cave expeditions .
the more we found , the more convinced we were the caves must remain unknown to the world at large .
some knowledge ought never be revealed .
despite the passage of many quiet years , i was always convinced hister would return .
i could not explain his long absence .
perhaps life had gotten in his way .
perhaps his goals had changed .
however , in my heart , i knew he would return here one day , to claim what he felt was his .
while he might have coveted the caves , they were in my possession .
i had hidden the way in and he was effectively locked out , thanks to the net .
it was a responsibility i took seriously .
i purchased the villa i loved so much and began construction on a concealed tunnel of my own , connecting it to the tunnel under etretat .
it was an ambitious project but some of the work had already been done long ago .
the long tunnel connecting the two cliffs together had a branch heading east , in the general direction of my villa .
it went for a distance of almost two hundred metres before stopping .
ancient tools were found abandoned as well as several skeletons , killed in the tunnels thousands of years ago .
whatever the reason for the tunnel , it saved us weeks of work , allowing us to begin and finish the remaining section of the tunnel in less than three months .
once completed , i could enter the tunnel and access the caves from the safety of my villa .
more than ever , i felt the caves were truly a burden .
i was held in thrall by them as much as hister was , though i was not motivated by selfish greed .
men of destiny are not those who go out and take what they want , riding roughshod over their victims .
no , true destiny is foisted on the average man , despite what he wants .
he finds himself the plaything of fate , without having had any such intent .
the caves had chosen me .
it was up to me to decide what must be done with them .
the choice i ended up making altered the course of world history , as hister marched on to his destiny , equally controlled by the caves .
a while has passed since my last entry .
victoire and angelique are safe .
they will be cared for , no matter what happens .
i have arranged it .
as for me , patrice , it is the end .
i fell ill on the way to perpignan and my old body is too tired to fight off the disease .
i know i will succumb .
however , i have done what i had to do and few men get that chance .
my only regret is the time i never spent with you .
the monster is revealed i settled into my new home and life regained a normality of sorts .
i continued my investigation of the caves and wrote my books .
in the back of my mind , i could not forget hister .
i knew this calm was but a temporary period as hister prepared his forces for another onslaught .
during the twenties , i did not learn anything more about him but in the 1930 's , i saw a picture of him in the papers .
his true name , adolf hitler was finally revealed .
i read about him in horror .
he had somehow convinced an entire nation to follow his insane leadership , fooling all his fellow countrymen .
i suddenly knew , beyond the shadow of any doubt , that hister wanted it all .
he wanted the caves , etretat , france , and the world with it .
nothing would stop him .
he was working day and night to build an army to take what he felt was his .
he would return here with ten thousand men , if he needed them .
if no one did what had to be done , he would never be stopped .
if he took the caves , the world would be his .
i was the only one who truly understood .
the only good thing was if he wanted the caves , he would have to come here to get them .
it gave me a chance , a single opportunity to trap him .
i sent for a.l .
to come and give me his advice , one final time .
a visit in the night it was nearing midnight when i heard the creak of the door in the garden .
i had just stoked the fire in my room and it was getting cozy .
he came in silently .
i shook his hand , noting the weariness in his eyes .
age was encroaching on us all .
i handed him a glass of cognac , as i explained my problem .
you see , a.l. , if my enemy is truly adolf hitler , chancellor of the third reich , as i am sure it is , i must somehow defeat him without ever getting the opportunity to meet him in person .
the man is completely unapproachable !
he is building a war machine , one which i am convinced he plans to use to come back here .
i am the only one who knows he must be stopped , who has a chance of stopping him .
i must not fail but how can i succeed , when i face the might of an entire country ? ''
i finished .
he looked at me in sympathy .
pointing with his cigar , he spoke quietly , as the fire snapped and crackled in the background .
i too , have followed hitler 's career , becoming very concerned about his politics .
things have been so unsettled in europe since the great war .
germany has been grumbling about the severity of its reparations payments .
hitler has stepped into power at an auspicious moment .
despite assurances to the contrary , his brownshirts , and now his blackshirts , can be seen as nothing more than the beginning of a massive army .
his speeches seed unrest and attempt to place the german over everyone else .
the master race indeed .
it is a ludicrous viewpoint , without any substance , basing itself on reworked history and false myths , but it must not be taken lightly .
he is intent on fomenting trouble .
big trouble . ''
his words struck a chord about hitler a. l. , now that i think about it , there is something wrong with the intensity of his speeches .
he is so very sure of himself , impossibly so , as if he believed the lies he was spouting . ''
you are on to something .
what makes a man push himself so , as if he could get anything he wanted , willing to justify any action to achieve his goals ? ''
a.l .
wondered .
he is a maniac , a megalomaniac , seeking power and control by any means , believing it to be his right , '' i answered .
yes , a megalomaniac , exactly my thinking .
that is how you will catch your man , my dear leblanc .
by using his weakness against him . ''
i clinked my glass with his and downed my remaining cognac in a single gulp , already planning how i was going to build my trap .
a.l left , after a quiet good bye .
he had provided me the impetus i needed to get out of my brown study and attend to my most important task destroying adolf hitler .
of these things , i can speak no more .
hitler is still out there and his spies may yet discover this journal .
i have spent years readying my trap , spending much of my riches in preparation .
to my sorrow , this meant i had to leave investigating the knowledge buried in the caves for another .
i have hoped it would be you , patrice .
lately , i am not so sure .
i have received disturbing news about your safety , so i have made arrangements with a.l. , for an alternate person to reclaim etretat 's heritage .
you know of whom i speak .
ever since i entered those caves , i have felt a great purpose controlling my decisions and directing my every move .
my personal desires and feelings have been utterly inconsequential .
everything has confirmed how little i really know about the caves , about their purpose for being here .
for they have a purpose , of that there can be no doubt .
this much i do know i have prepared the caves for another .
i can only hope it will be you , patrice , my beloved son .
so allow me to believe you will survive , that the information i have been given about you is wrong .
there are so many things i have left unsaid , waiting too long to speak .
now you may be gone and i will surely be gone soon as well .
there is no more time .
only this journal can speak for me .
allow me to apologise one final time for all the things i was not as a father and for the things i was forced to do in my life .
i can only hope you see fit to forgive me and to reciprocate the love in my heart for you , outshining all that can be found there .
good bye , my son , my patrice .
your loving father maurice leblanc ps ergo 5 8 1 , 10 8 2 , 22 1 8 , 27 4 4 , , 40 5 1 , 60 1 5 , 49 2 4 , , 71 9 1 , 75 13 2 , 33 6 2 , 97 1 6 , , 92 2 1 , 31 1 2 , 61 1 2 , 73 14 4 , 18 3 1 , , , 100 13 2 , 90 6 4 , 29 1 5 , 88 2 4 , , 24 2 1 , 66 2 2 , 62 4 3 , , 30 6 1 , 14 5 2 , 94 3 4 , , 69 5 1 , 31 7 9 , 87 6 6 , 20 1 1 , , 78 2 1 , 57 2 1 , 48 6 6 , 25 2 3 , 95 2 1 , , , 98 3 1 , 12 1 2 , 50 3 3 , 91 1 2 , 7 1 1 , , 38 9 1 , 89 1 3 , 19 2 1 , 41 5 1 , , 54 1 4 , 45 2 2 , 55 1 7 , , 82 6 4 , 16 1 2 , 53 6 3 , 8 2 6 , 42 1 2 , 93 6 2 , , 32 6 6 , 23 3 2 , 64 3 2 , 59 9 4 , , , sum 1p k4 , p k4 , 2 kt kb3 kt qb3 , 3 p q4 ktxp , 4 ktxkt pxkt , 5 b qb4 b b4 , 6 p qb3 q k2 , 7 o o q k4 , 8 p kb4 pxpch , 9 k r1 pxp chapter 13 maximillian bauer well , that 's it , '' i finished , accepting a glass of cold water from raymonde .
as i drank , i noticed the total silence around me .
each person here , and my friends online , had been deeply affected by the contents of the journal .
mrs leblanc was crying copiously .
the two vallin brothers each bore a different expression .
ives appeared somewhat bemused and jacques looked upset .
he was biting his lips , as if trying to restrain himself from bursting out .
they were also expecting me to say something .
before i could utter a single word , however , o'flanahan tactlessly jumped in i ca n't wait to publish this ! ''
o'flanahan , i 'm sure you will agree discretion is of extreme importance at this point .
if leblanc kept this secret for nearly one hundred years , then surely we can assume he had a valid reason for doing so .
i expect everyone to respect his decision for the time being . ''
well , i for one do not respect this leblanc , '' exclaimed jacques vallin , his trembling voice betraying a deep anger .
mrs leblanc burst into tears again .
vallin 's face instantly mollified , realising what his harsh words had done .
wrestling his emotions into control , he explained why he was so upset .
all our lives , our only goal , brother and me , has been to find what happened to our great grandfather .
my father before me and his father before him have each spent their lives trying to learn who killed old man vallin and why .
now , after a century , we discover the reason is mr leblanc simply chose not to explain to my grandfather what had transpired .
had he spoken but once , none of our lives would have been so wasted , '' he finished , his tremulous voice trailing off .
jacques , i recognise you feel genuinely hurt .
however , imagine leblanc 's difficulty in deciding whether the reason for old man vallin 's murder should be revealed .
he understood only too well the impact of his silence .
the proof is he tried to minimise this necessary wrong by anonymously providing your family with funds when you needed them the most .
it 's easy to see why he wrote his journal as a confession .
his choices came at such a heavy price .
it can only speak more on the need to maintain silence until we comprehend what is now in our hands , '' i explained .
jacques ' expression softened until he nodded in agreement , hesitantly at first , then firmly , his brother joining him .
well said , my boy , '' stated briar .
i will support you one hundred percent in this .
discretion is called for , extreme discretion .
there is more here than meets the eye .
the fewer who know about it the better . ''
that 's not all , '' coulter added .
leblanc 's journal leaves almost as many questions as it answers . ''
on the laptop screen , o'flanahan was nodding his head vigorously in agreement with coulter .
my first question would be what trap did he set for hitler ? ''
i wondered aloud .
mrs leblanc , looking slightly more composed , added her own question .
i 'm wondering if we might head inside for a short rest ?
this afternoon has simply been too emotional . ''
everyone agreed .
i suspected we were all equally drained .
a few hours later , i was sitting in my room .
the short rest had done me a world of good .
raymonde had gone out to run a few errands for her mother .
i did not have any such tasks , so i was free to reflect on leblanc 's journal .
it was so sad the way things had turned out for him .
here was a man who had solved the most amazing historical mystery of his time and then found himself in the fight of his life , literally forced to contend with the direct and horrific attention of the most dangerous man in the twentieth century .
despite all that , leblanc 's revelations were nothing less than astounding .
he had found the caves hidden within the aval cliff and he had discovered treasure .
he also alluded to knowledge buried in their depths .
in the fight against a lurking hitler , leblanc had committed himself to protecting the caves at any cost .
apparently , most of the town had been involved , although only a few had known about the caves specifically .
a beeping sound from my laptop drew my attention .
three windows popped up on the screen , displaying my friends .
behind coulter , i saw discarded cups of coffee and a few pizza boxes .
behind o'flanahan was the usual mess of his office .
briar seemed to be outside .
there was a building in the background but i could n't make it out .
no matter where they were , these guys had been reviewing the journal non stop since they had signed off this afternoon .
now they were coming to me with their conclusions .
i had to admit i welcomed their call .
ah , my boy , there you are .
thank god , coulter understands all this techno wizardry .
being far away like this is quite limiting , you know .
i am becoming somewhat frustrated with it , '' briar explained .
i assume you have been thinking about the journal ? ''
i 've been thinking of nothing else .
its revelations seem to fly in the face of history .
we now have to accept hitler came back to etretat several times , with murder and theft on his mind , although , in the end , he failed to gain his objective .
leblanc even claims hitler was wounded , '' i knew that you would wonder about that , because , frankly , that is what i thought .
like minds and all that .
anyway , we 've come up with a theory , '' briar responded .
go on , i 'm listening , '' if leblanc 's journal is accurate , its facts would inevitably have to fit with what we know of hitler 's life .
this may actually be the case .
for example , we can confirm the specific encounters related in the journal fit quite nicely with hitler 's life during the first world war .
hitler volunteered repeatedly to be a courier , delivering important messages to german outposts , deep within france .
on certain missions , he travelled within thirty kilometres of etretat .
better yet , hitler was wounded during world war 1 , an injury that won him a prestigious award .
perhaps , the true reason for the injury was not what the world was led to believe . ''
coulter interrupted briar , eager to add his piece and , thanks to leblanc , we now know there was another man with hitler in etretat , a trained assassin .
did he become a convenient witness , explaining away hitler 's mysterious wound ?
were other witnesses coerced into supporting hitler 's altered version ? ''
so , you 're implying hitler used his official missions as a cover , during which he returned to etretat .
that begs the question if hitler was willing to join the army in order to sneak back into etretat , what else would he be willing to do following that failure ? ''
i replied .
are you asking if hitler would have been so treacherous as to lead an entire country astray to conquer etretat , as leblanc attests in his journal ? ''
briar retorted .
yes , that is exactly what i am asking .
i am beginning to think hitler 's entire life , ever since he entered into those caves , was devoted to returning there , to the exclusion of all else , a true obsession .
the only thing i ca n't understand is why he never went there later , when he so obviously could have .
his army took etretat over in 1940 .
yet , history is clear on one particular point hitler never returned there .
he died , in a berlin bunker in 1945 .
so why did n't hitler escape to those caves if that was his goal in the first place ? ''
i think i have an answer to that particular question , '' affirmed o'flanahan .
have any of you ever heard of maximillian bauer ? ''
he asked innocently .
i hope this is n't another conspiracy theory , '' flatly objected briar .
instead of looking flustered , o'flanahan looked smug .
in the world of conspiracies , my friends , some are so far fetched they barely register on the scale .
others are supported by mountains of facts .
however , there are a few placed in a very special pile .
if you were to look in that pile , every conspiracy confronting you would sound preposterous on the surface but the more you thought about it , the more you would realize only your perspective prevented it from being true .
well , the top story in that pile would be the strange case of maximillian bauer .
so i repeat to you have any of you heard of him ? ''
none of us had .
o'flanahan explained what he knew in the month of february1939 , a small book was published by the macaulay press , a new york printing company , which bore the title 'the strange death of adolf hitler ' .
the author remained anonymous , afraid of persecution .
he claimed to have been entrusted this document by maximillian bauer .
following a dangerous and circuitous route , our mr anonymous escaped from germany and found his way to the united states .
he translated the document into english and submitted it for publication .
of course , it did n't matter to the editors whether the story was true or not , just so long as it caused a furor , '' o'flanahan began and a furor it did cause , of that there can be no doubt . ''
stop beating around the bush , o'flanahan and tell us about it , for pete 's sake , '' ranted coulter .
i 'm getting to it , just calm down .
maximillian bauer was born with the unlucky fate of looking exactly like adolf hitler .
better yet , he could talk like hitler .
he had his voice ! ''
are you telling us this guy was hitler 's exact double ? ''
asked coulter .
now you 're getting it .
to the public , the two were one and the same .
however , if we are to believe the book , behind the scenes , all was not well .
because of his special position , bauer was uniquely placed to observe the events leading up to the second world war .
he witnessed the in fighting between hitler 's henchmen , boormann , von arnheim , goebbels and the others .
there were many conspiracies to unseat hitler .
there was a third problem .
hitler himself was sick .
he was becoming more paranoid , seeing danger everywhere .
he was probably right .
as time went on , bauer did most of the public appearances and speeches , with hitler directing behind the scenes .
now , you must remember this book was published in 1939 and had been smuggled out of germany before the war had even begun .
every small detail noted in his book has been verified by independent investigations over the years .
the conveniently anonymous author had to have been present to know what happened in those private chambers .
the secret love affairs , the illegal activities , it 's all there .
were it not for those little details , this book would not be credible .
with them , it becomes very , very plausible . ''
well , it is known hitler had doubles .
that is no big secret , '' scoffed briar .
true , but the big secret revealed in the book , is hitler , the real hitler , died before 1939 , from a combination of ill health and poison .
it was his double who carried on and finished the war .
it was his double who died in the bunker . ''
what happened to the author ? ''
asked briar .
the author disappeared in december 1938 , just before the first publication of the book .
he was never heard from again , not even claiming a penny of his royalties .
a year and a half later , etretat was invaded by the nazis , '' o'flanahan clarified .
what if the author was a complete fake ? ''
i asked , getting the attention of all three .
what if the reason he was 'anonymous ' was that his own background would not hold up to scrutiny ?
if the author was hitler 's henchman , this weissmuller perhaps , then the whole bauer story could be a plant .
maximilian bauer took hitler 's place , allowing him to vanish into the caves without anyone noticing .
of course , we still do n't understand why hitler was so fascinated by the caves . ''
as was leblanc , let us not forget , '' added briar .
yes , exactly like leblanc , in fact .
obsessed with the caves .
so much so hitler came up with a complex plan to subjugate an entire country in order to regain his objective !
let 's assume the book about bauer was part of that plan , seeded with half truths to 'prove ' hitler had died .
such a false conclusion would end any burgeoning investigation into hitler 's whereabouts , further protecting the caves .
once etretat was invaded , with weissmuller in charge , hitler had no further interest in remaining in germany .
the minute the caves were ready , he abandoned germany , leaving his double behind . ''
well , i 'm glad someone has figured out why i thought it was important to talk about that book , '' asserted o'flanahan .
you were right to bring it to our attention .
if anything , it strengthens our version of the facts .
after the beginning of world war two , hitler 's behaviour was the opposite of what you would expect of a leader .
instead of making more appearances everywhere , he reduced the number of public speeches .
he never changed his appearance , always presenting the exact same look .
this all supports the idea of a double , repeating what he had been taught .
perhaps , in the end , germany failed because hitler was no longer it its helm , replaced by an imitator , skilled only in deception .
it would have become a fatal weakness for the nazi regime . ''
we may have much more to thank maurice leblanc for than we imagined at first .
perhaps his trap succeeded , leaving a nazi war machine decapitated when it was at the height of its power .
bauer tried to keep it going but ultimately failed , being a mimic rather than the military genius hitler was , '' said briar .
it also implies something else , '' added o'flanahan .
if that book was published before the second world war , then its author had to be aware of the plan to invade etretat .
publishing the book was a premeditated act , anticipating the act of invasion .
hitler and the author were in cahoots with each other .
it had to be weissmuller . ''
trust o'flanahan to come up with something that twisty .
i was overwhelmed yet again at how this kept evolving into something unexpected .
i was reminded of leblanc 's final comment in his journal 'i have felt a great purpose , controlling my decisions and directing my every move .
this much i know i have prepared the way for another . '
something deeper was going on , something hidden .
both men , leblanc and hitler had been changed forever by their encounter with the caves .
something had polarized these two men , setting into motion a string of events , which had led directly to my presence here , a full century later .
if we were going to find our answers , there was only one place for us to look .
gentlemen , i think it 's time to think about going into the caves ! ''
after disconnecting with my friends , before raymonde returned , i decided to do some advance scouting by returning to the aval cliff .
arriving at the golf club parking , i got out of my car and headed down the path , putting on my glasses and switching them on .
a moment later , coulter signed on .
hey , paul .
where are you now ? ''
i 'm on top of the cliff near the bunker , '' i turned my head in its direction as i walked nearer .
where are the other guys ? ''
o'flanahan 's off hunting something .
he was mumbling when he signed off so i missed most of it .
i do n't know where briar is .
i have n't seen him in a while but he 's been busy doing research .
he sure has come up with the goods on a pile of stuff , '' coulter said , drinking from a thermos cup and sitting back in his chair .
you 're telling me .
i 'm glad i brought him in on this .
he has a lot of resources , '' i replied .
what is it between him and o'flanahan ? ''
beats me .
however , let 's admit it , o'flanahan can be irritating at the best of times . ''
you got that right , '' coulter laughed .
why did you ask him along if he 's so irritating ? ''
i walked into the bunker .
finding nothing new , i went back outside .
i know he 's quirky but i ca n't help that .
from the first day i met him , i knew i could trust him .
no matter his antics , this guy will be there when you need him .
besides , he really is in his element with all these hitler conspiracies .
what do you think of him ? ''
oh , you know i 'm easy going .
both guys have different viewpoints and that has to be a good thing .
i 'm just along for the ride , '' he broke off , laughing a bit more .
but seriously , you have to be careful .
you do n't just have yourself to think of anymore .
there 's raymonde and her mom , and the vallin brothers .
these people are all counting on you . ''
come on , give me a break .
i 've only been in france a few days .
i 'm doing my best to catch up . ''
i know .
you 've done pretty well , if you ask me , except last night when you forgot to take the safety off your gun .
i thought you were a goner . ''
i smiled at the memory but there was a serious edge to his comment .
i was learning but would it be fast enough ?
i could n't always be lucky .
reaching the edge of the cliff , i looked down , seeing the needle below , waves crashing all around .
wow !
look at that .
man , that 's a sight .
what are you doing up here anyway ? ''
i 've been thinking about the way to get into those caves .
if what we 've learnt is true , that bunker is right over the frefosse dungeon entrance into those caves .
we 've also surmised an ancient entrance once existed at a level from more than two thousand years ago . ''
i get it .
you think we have to go underwater to find our way in . ''
yes .
i want you to check into it .
find out what equipment we might need and who 's got it .
use my account , make a deal and get it here fast .
along with that , let 's try to pin down some data to back up this approach , just to make absolutely sure . ''
you seem pretty committed already . ''
let me just say i 've had a hunch . ''
and a dream !
why do n't you just stop right where you are , sirenne .
i 've got a gun ! ''
i froze .
coulter began talking at a rapid fire pace in my ear .
is that norton ?
it is , is n't it ?
oh , man , this is bad .
what are we going to do ?
what are you going to do ?
wait , wait , i 've got it .
i 'm on it .
i 'm calling raymonde right now .
no !
i 'm calling the vallin brothers .
they 're closer and meaner . ''
norton !
what a surprise .
how 's your foot ? ''
i spoke up , saying anything to keep the dangerous man off balance .
it 's still ringing at the vallin .
wait , someone 's picking up , '' coulter 's voice faded off .
it hurts , what do you think ?
you almost broke it , you cretin .
i should kill you right here , sirenne , you bother me so much .
but i 'm not going to , not now , not yet .
because i want some answers , damn it .
now turn around slow and easy .
do n't make any sudden moves . ''
his pistol was a small stubby thing , probably a back up .
i had forgotten to search his car .
another mistake !
norton held the pistol low , so as not to attract attention from the few tourists in the distance .
i had a plan but i had to get it right .
i had brought my pistol too .
unfortunately , it was behind my back , stuck in my pants , underneath my jacket , the exact spot where norton was looking .
i turned my body slowly .
at the same time , i frantically slid my hand inside my jacket .
with incredible relief , i felt my palm grasp the pistol .
keep your hands in view , '' norton warned .
i slid my hand back , pulling the pistol out of my pants without a hitch , flipping the safety catch at the same time .
it was now or never .
in a single gesture , i jerked my gun out , aiming it directly at norton 's head , catching him completely unaware .
surprised , he froze for a moment , allowing me to take several steps , narrowing the distance between us .
the vallins are on the way .
five minutes tops and they 'll be here .
hey , you 've got a gun !
why did n't you say that ? ''
coulter stammered .
wait a minute , do n't get closer to the guy . ''
shut up and get me a map of this place , '' i whispered .
what ? ''
find me a way out of here .
get me a map . ''
his face brightened .
ohh , i got it .
one 3d map of the cliff coming up it 'll take a few secs , sorry . ''
norton was stuck in an awkward position , with his arm down , his gun held at waist height .
he had put his shoes back on and was using a branch as a cane .
he spoke angrily .
i keep underestimating you .
so you 've got a pistol on me and i 've got a pistol on you .
big deal . ''
my plan was to do something he could not .
i was going to run !
unfortunately , in order to do this , i had to get closer because i was on a projection of the cliff and he was blocking my way .
norton continued talking as i kept walking , my left arm held out stiffly , holding the pistol aimed right at his face .
the few tourists in the distance had n't noticed anything yet but it was just a matter of time .
we might shoot each other but i want some answers from you and i am going to get them , no matter what . ''
what questions ? ''
i retorted , stalling .
what does h.n .
mean ?
answer that , for starters , '' he screamed .
do n't you know ? ''
i shot back .
god damn it , stop it with these games .
it 's always games , all the time .
just tell me , i beg you , '' his face contorted , looking ready to cry for a moment , then flashing into a twisted rage , then back to tears .
that guy is not stable , '' coulter whispered , checking his watch .
three more minutes and the vallin brothers will be there .
just hold on , you 're doing great so far .
that was fast thinking with the gun .
ca n't believe you did that .
here 's the 3d map you asked for . ''
i scanned it rapidly , orienting myself .
i immediately found what i had seen before a way down those precipitous cliffs !
it was on my right about thirty yards away , the second dip in the cliff past the needle .
unlike the first dip , the second one did n't stop , going all the way down to a disused metal staircase .
norton spoke again , his voice going up and down in volume .
he was losing it .
first , it was my sister , helena , then it was my friend henri nadeau and all the others , all the same , and they were blaming me but they did n't understand .
it was all a game and i was stuck in it .
it was n't me .
they were wrong .
i just ca n't prove it and now , he stole my file , everything i had on him , '' he laughed frenziedly but stopped himself , continuing his incomprehensible ramble .
and this time , the first time ever , i caught him , i saw him .
the shadow killer .
he was leaving with my file under his arm .
i saw him in the mirror , the door was open , and he , he was me , he was me , ha ha ha , he was me , can you believe it ?
ha ha ha , what a perfect trick . ''
he broke into another crazy laugh and his head fell to his chest .
the moment his eyes dropped , i took off running , knowing exactly where i was going , thanks to coulter 's map .
i had never broken any speed records before but , at that moment , i felt as if i was a train , barrelling non stop across the landscape , increasing my momentum and distance with every second .
his pistol barrel was too short for any type of accuracy .
if he wanted to shoot me , he would have to catch me and i was n't planning to give him the chance !
coulter kept scrolling the map on the screen , showing me where i had to go , cheering me on all the while .
norton yelled and i risked a single glance backwards .
he was hobbling after me at a decent pace , using his cane to lop forward , his pistol waving around with every step .
he appeared angry .
i heard some car doors slam and more screaming in the distance .
the two vallin brothers were in the parking lot , running all out toward norton .
they were both brandishing bats and waving them madly .
i kept going , aiming directly for the cleft , sliding on one foot , dangerously out of control .
norton was closer than i would 've liked .
watch it , you 're going to lose it , you 're going to lose it .
no , you 're fine , doing good , now be careful , here 's the stairs , '' coulter yammered in my ear , keeping a running commentary .
i came to a desperate stop , right above the rusty steps .
they were clogged with silt and sand .
signs warned tourists off and bars blocked the staircase .
just go for it , norton 's right behind you , '' coulter screamed .
incredibly , norton was coming down fast , using his branch to balance himself , still holding his gun .
i scrambled over the bars and dropped my feet down on the railing and , pushing myself off , careened down the railing at a precipitous pace .
a mound of dirt blocked the bottom of the staircase and i jumped off , landing in the soft sand below .
not stopping for a second , i ran towards the needle .
norton shot once but his bullet missed by a mile .
he bellowed in frustration , hurrying down the stairs .
a glance upwards showed me the vallins at the top of the steep slope , still waving bats .
the hunter was about to become the hunted .
i redoubled my speed and neared the needle , intent on rejoining etretat 's main beach beyond the arch .
unfortunately , the tide was in and the area around the arch was flooded .
i did n't hesitate for a second and jumped in the channel water .
it was cold but i felt nothing , the adrenaline numbing the shock .
norton , let go another bellow and shot once more , uselessly , still too far away .
despite my situation , i resisted shooting back .
i just could n't convince myself to do it .
coulter had other concerns .
try not to get the glasses wet , they 're waterproof but i 'll probably lose reception and i do n't want to miss a second of this . ''
i am trying to get away , you know , '' i answered back , too breathless to sound sarcastic .
wading in to my neck , i started swimming , barely keeping ahead of the undercurrent .
you got ta turn your head back .
i want to see how close the vallin brothers are ... darn , go , man , go .
norton 's about to shoot again , '' coulter shouted .
norton was ranting , his words reaching me faintly .
you just wo n't listen .
well , i 'll make you listen . ''
i dove underwater , soaking the glasses and losing coulter , just as norton emptied his gun .
i felt a wallop in my shoulder .
i was hit .
right away , i knew it was n't bad .
i had been underwater and the bullet was robbed of its momentum .
i might be sore but i was n't dead !
with renewed vigour , i kicked with my legs , propelling myself forward a fair distance , coming back up to the surface .
i turned around to face the beach , lifting my gun above the water in defence .
i had nothing to shoot at .
i fell back into the water , my glasses miraculously still glued to my face .
norton had been forced to jump into the water in an attempt to escape the approaching vallin brothers .
he was swimming towards me in earnest , his face contorting in agony every time his damaged foot moved through the water .
soon , he was sinking more than swimming .
i pulled away , easily outdistancing him in his debilitated condition .
a look of intense frustration appeared on his face .
unfortunately , his body was completely worn out and his foot was hurting him tremendously .
i swam a big circle , heading back towards the shore .
the vallin brothers reached the water and waded in knee deep to help me out of the water .
i checked for norton , finally spotting him .
he was in trouble , sinking under the heavy waves , unable to keep his head above the water any longer .
i had an impulse to save him despite all he had done but i was too exhausted .
ives vallin headed off into the waters valiantly in my stead but norton went under long before he could reach him .
he never resurfaced .
a selection from the weissmuller manuscript meeting hitler i first met hitler while in vienna in 1908 .
several years later , he renewed contact , intent on involving me in a new scheme .
at first , i was not very interested .
all i knew from before was that he painted for food money .
i could n't imagine what such a man could have to offer .
i tended to work alone .
however , something had changed about him .
this hitler was different , brimming with energy , his eyes glowing with conviction .
slowly , over supper , he exposed the most unbelievable discovery a complex of caves hidden near a small town in france .
he admitted to killing a man , named leblanc .
he also spoke of gold and jewels , some of which he had taken .
he admitted feeling guilty for several days following the murder .
the guilt was eventually replaced by a growing sense of rightness he had been justified to take ownership of the caves , said he , they were his by right of conquest .
he had begun dreaming about what he could do with such a lair at his disposal .
he had perceived a path laid out in front of him , revealed by destiny itself .
the caves were his to take .
he had bricked up the entrance and left the body of leblanc entombed in them .
no one would ever find him .
then the impossible happened .
leblanc was seen returning home .
he was not dead and had somehow escaped from the caves .
hitler was convinced he had killed the man .
there was something going on in there , something he desperately wanted to investigate .
i was n't sure about his claims .
it was hard to kill a man , particularly if you did n't know what you were doing and why he was admitting all these things to me ?
hitler was n't done with his explanation .
baffled by leblanc 's supposed return to life , hitler returned to the town , hoping to finish the job .
upon his arrival , he was horrified to discover the entrance into the caves had been completely destroyed .
learning about the involvement of a local man named vallin , hitler took him prisoner .
he tortured vallin for several hours but either the man was a true drunken idiot , or he was devoted to his cause , because he never spoke a word .
frustrated , hitler took vallin to the destroyed fort and threw him into the hole , leaving him there to die .
returning to vienna , hitler realized his plans would have to become much more complex .
he could no longer return to take control of the caves .
worse yet , leblanc had free access to them , stealing the gold hitler believed to be his by right .
hitler was convinced other secrets rested in the caves , more important than all the gold in the world .
despite his wild claims , the inner energy animating him was strong .
this was a man not easily thwarted once set upon a path .
i still did n't know why he was talking to me .
i did n't have long to wonder when he launched into a different type of history my own .
apparently , he had been impressed during the time we had spent in vienna .
he had felt something was different about me .
in that , he was , of course , absolutely correct .
then he amazed me , by talking about a particular incident that happened while i was still in school .
for the first time in many years , my heart jumped and i almost felt worry .
hitler had somehow uncovered the one event where i had made the slightest of mistakes in my experiments .
with this dangerous information in his hands , i wondered if perhaps hitler himself ought not participate in one of my experiments .
i had been thinking of a new approach lately .
however , these interesting thoughts were banished when he pulled a thick folder from a paper bag , saying it was a gift .
opening it , i found three complete copies of the file concerning the incident .
they were the ones i had not been able to remove from the school 's records .
at the time , i was not gifted enough to succeed in this necessary task .
hitler had gone back and done what i should have done .
i had finally met a kindred spirit .
one with whom i could share my thoughts .
unlike me , he had purpose .
i was wandering through life , trying to understand why i looked at things the way i did .
here was a man who was telling me it did not have to be like that .
if i joined him in his quest , acting as his lieutenant , i would be able to continue my experiments , but this time i would have a reason for them .
the thought appealed to me mightily .
then , his timing perfect , he pulled out a small leather purse , full of gold coins .
at that very moment , i decided to do it .
i would join him and with me at his side , we could not fail .
we left vienna to find a place to use as a home base .
during the trip , hitler revealed his deeper thoughts and ambitions .
this was no mere whim .
although he was obsessed about the caves , he had other aspirations , political ones .
they were still nebulous , unclear but , somehow , he knew the greatness he was destined to achieve .
he had chosen me with care , after reviewing all those he had encountered , knowing he needed help of a special nature .
he admitted noticing something special about me .
the thought bothered me , because i had believed my outer shell , the 'skin ' others saw , had become smooth enough to escape detection .
he calmed my concerns by stating he was also different .
he spent much time indicating the exact points which had alerted him , helping me greatly in designing a better skin .
as he revealed what he expected me to do , i grew more and more amazed .
it was as if he had read my mind and selected a task designed specifically for me .
i was to start by becoming completely invisible .
no one was to be left alive who might know my true nature .
i was to refine the art of camouflage , until it was a science , until i could hide myself in the skin of others quickly and easily , learning to hide in plain view .
once that was done , i would begin my assigned task .
hitler wanted me to achieve two things at the same time .
first , i was to assemble all available information about the caves into a coherent format , and , second , i was to erase the caves from recorded history .
such a task appealed immediately .
it would provide the freedom i needed to continue my experiments .
i could explore putting on different skins , learning to become anyone and then vanish .
as for those with the information i sought , they were to be eliminated .
this final requirement was the most wonderful .
hitler understood my passion for experiments .
now he had provided me with a format in which i could continue .
i truly did not care about the caves .
i only cared about the opportunity to follow my life 's ambition , this time structured with exquisite planning .
from past experience , i knew structure was the only thing keeping me from prison .
without the care taken to perfect my skins , without the extreme attention to detail , i would be arrested before i could even begin .
as for hitler 's claims , i would reserve judgment .
his wilder statements did not truly matter .
who was i to say whether his beliefs were justified or not ?
i was happy doing his bidding , as long as it continued to fit with my own goals .
we parted ways soon after .
he would contact me by sending messages to our home base .
in the meantime , i had much to do .
he was adamant about my achieving complete invisibility .
the best way to do this would be to return to the neighborhoods of my past and eliminate every shred of evidence concerning my existence .
in being absolutely thorough , i would reach true invisibility .
the exercises would double as training for future investigations .
i selected my first step as the eradication of my family .
they were aware of some of my animal experiments .
as well , if i 'killed ' myself along with them , anyone investigating my trail would come to an abrupt end .
using my father 's birthday as a reason to get together , i prepared the end of my beginning .
that morning , i selected a man of similar build , knocking him out just as he was about to enter his house .
tying and gagging him securely , i lay him down in the woodshed behind my rented house , covering his body with a tarp and a few planks of wood .
the evening went as planned .
my family arrived early and we ate the meal my mother had brought .
they all enjoyed the cake i had prepared .
shortly after ingestion , i noted the oncoming of the cramps , caused by the large quantity of strychnine i had added to the recipe .
i put the 'concerned ' look on my face and pretended to help .
soon they were unable to move , due to the increasing severity of the cramping .
after drawing the drapes , i dragged their cramping bodies into the living room , to watch them die together .
i had to muffle their screams with napkins stuffed in their mouths , watching as the strychnine induced spasms increased , until the slightest noise sent them into paroxysms of pain .
i looked deep into their eyes to see what they were seeing , what they were feeling .
once more i failed .
the bodies collapsed and i saw no evidence of souls .
just bodies .
i resolved not to use strychnine again .
it was too slow a poison .
i went to the woodshed and retrieved the bound man , still hidden under the tarp .
his eyes were wild as i lifted him over my shoulder and carried him into the house .
i dropped him down next to the rest of my family .
he wriggled as hard as he could , perhaps getting an inkling of what was coming .
i ignored him for the time being , busying myself by staging the bodies around the dining table .
my mind flashed back to the meal and my mouth salivated .
i would miss my mother 's cooking .
i placed my father on the ground , his left arm reaching for the door .
my mother was at the table .
my two brothers lay behind her , lying on the floor , entwined as if they had tripped over each other in their haste to leave the room .
finally , all bodies were arranged in the right position .
i picked up a large pillow from the couch and sat down on top of the bound man , straddling his chest .
he was unable to utter a single sound , his eyes darting left and right frantically .
if i used the pillow , i would be unable to see his eyes as he died , so i put it down .
he took this to mean he was getting a reprieve and relief appeared in his eyes .
whatever it was disappeared when i bent down , lying flat on top of his body , my face centimeters from his .
using an extended index finger from both hands , my arms slowly moved in on his face from each side , closer and closer to his nose .
he redoubled in his efforts , trying to throw me off , to spit out his gag .
i moved my legs , locking myself over him , and brought both index fingers against his flaring nostrils , pushing them hard together .
his air supply cut off , he fought wildly but i kept my position , holding his nostrils shut tight .
he would get no further reprieve .
this was the moment i had chosen for him to die , the moment of my experiment .
it happened suddenly .
one moment , he was fighting , the next he was gone .
nothing left him .
i placed him near 'his ' mother as if he had been trying to save her , a loyal son to the end .
i grabbed two kerosene lanterns and threw the first on the dining table .
flames exploded , engulfing my mother instantly , the fire spreading rapidly .
before exiting out the back door , i threw the second lantern near my two brothers .
both fires joined , consuming the living room and my family .
i walked away from the house , already planning the next step .
my classmates and teachers .
they all had to go !
chapter 14 a surprise from my friends i was resting , my shoulder still sore from its encounter with a bullet .
raymonde brought supper with her and confirmed no one had seen norton , nor had his body been found .
he had vanished .
however , coulter had dug up some of norton 's high school records .
he had been captain of the swimming team and had once been considered for the olympics .
his survival was a distinct possibility .
i was still not sure what to make of norton 's attack .
why was he after me and not the shadow killer ?
why was he so stuck on the letters 'hn ' ?
the man seemed demented , speaking in circles .
despite the circumstances , i was troubled by his disappearance .
had i been responsible somehow ?
perhaps i should have told him what he wanted to know .
however , going down that route might have been far worse .
norton was not listening to me anyway .
his ramble made sense only to him .
raymonde 's hand on my shoulder pulled me out of my reverie .
i still ca n't believe the video coulter sent me .
i 'm amazed by what you did .
that was incredibly brave . ''
her words made me feel better but i knew fear had made me fleet of foot .
bravery had little to do with it .
had i been in my right mind , i would never have contemplated such a reckless course of action .
hugging her as she sat down on the bed , i explained how i felt these last few days have been a whirlwind , as if time were being compressed .
just a few days ago , i had no idea what was waiting for me .
today , i am holding the hand of the woman i love , on a roller coaster of a ride , with death , danger , and mystery all around .
after reading the leblanc journal , when i saw your mother crying so hard , i did n't know what to say to you .
i 'm worried you might be upset with me for bringing such turmoil to your mother 's life , to your life . ''
her arms tightened , her eyes shining with warmth .
my mother 's tears were good tears .
she finally knows what happened back then and can lay those ghosts to rest .
i do n't regret a single instant since you arrived here .
these are things we were meant to go through , i can feel it .
besides , it allowed us to find each other . ''
well , thank god for that , then , '' i joked and she smiled .
i talked to my friends online this afternoon . ''
uh oh , i know what that means .
our adventures are n't over , are they ? ''
uhm , no , not exactly , '' i answered .
i summarized the maximillian bauer story and then explained our plan .
all along , through the great hunt , we always found just enough facts to point the way to where we should go next .
as with before , there was only one choice now to enter the caves .
we will find all our answers when we enter them . ''
but you do n't know how to get in .
the germans blocked all the entrances . ''
no , i do n't think they did .
there is a chance we can find a way in .
we 'll talk more about that in the morning , when briar and the others connect back on , '' i said , refusing to explain further .
it was no longer time to talk about the caves .
it was time for bed !
next morning found me frustrated .
we had gotten up early , showered , and eaten .
since then , i had been trying to connect with my friends .
i had run through our last conversation , confirming they definitely set a contact time of 10 00 am .
it was now 10 35 am and i could not get them to answer , no matter what i did .
raymonde was of absolutely no help , trying to tickle me whenever i brought the topic up .
there was a knock at the door .
it was the maid there is a phone call for mr sirenne .
the front desk said you 'll have to go down to the restaurant to pick it up , '' she informed us .
fine , thank you .
i 'll be down presently . ''
thank you sir , i 'll tell them , '' she said , leaving quickly .
them ?
i wonder who it could be ?
are you coming down ? ''
i asked raymonde .
i would n't miss this for the world , '' she answered mysteriously .
reaching the small restaurant room and , seeing 'our ' table , where a phone had been placed , i sat down , picking it up .
this is paul sirenne .
there 's a call for me ?
just a second , sir , i 'll connect you . ''
a few clicks and pops later , an unmistakable voice blasted over the phone sirenne , thank god it 's you .
it 's o'flanahan , old buddy . ''
i know who you are , o'flanahan , what 's this all about ?
where have you been ? ''
there 's no time for that , me boy .
i just need you to do me a wee favour , is all , '' he begged , his irish accent overwhelming the phone 's tiny speaker .
a favour ?
you 've got to be kidding , right ? ''
please , it 's such a small thing .
i was wondering if you could turn your head about seventy five degrees to the right ? ''
he asked .
that request sounded very familiar .
i did as he asked and turned my head to the right .
i was looking at a table where three men were sitting .
one of them was facing me , holding up a cell phone .
it was o'flanahan .
the other two turned around .
it was coulter and briar .
my jaw dropped open .
raymonde was covering her face with her hand as she tried to hide her smile .
mrs leblanc was peeking in from the restaurant entrance , laughing as well .
had they all been in on it ?
i started laughing finally .
they had done it well i had to admit it .
i walked over to my friends and sat down in the fourth chair , trying to look unflappable , as i said coffees all around ?
i believe it 's my round this time , gentlemen . ''
apparently , the distance had been bothering all three .
the events in etretat were occurring with ever increasing speed and there they were , sitting around at home , looking at their computers .
a unanimous decision was reached to do what they knew had to be done .
according to coulter , it had been terribly difficult to arrange the flights on such short notice .
he had found two seats on a red eye flight for himself and o'flanahan .
briar organized a flight on his own and they met in the paris international airport .
my dear boy , sorry for springing this on you in this manner but , really , there was no way any of us could stay away from etretat for one more second , grading of papers be damned , '' exclaimed briar .
a pot of coffee sat on the table , already three quarters empty .
yesterday , before all the excitement , i said it was time to go find the caves .
if you think back on leblanc 's journal , you may remember the section when he wandered into a very big cave with a large body of brackish water .
brackish water implies an opening to the english channel .
i wondered if , at some point in the past , that opening might have been larger .
the fort of frefosse once had such an entrance , a hidden port , giving access to the open sea for the smugglers .
this ancient sea entrance would have been covered by silt and debris more than a thousand years ago .
however , the germans might have re opened the hidden entrance , an entrance that would be more than three hundred metres out to sea and perhaps just as deep , '' i concluded .
i do n't know why i did n't think of that before .
you must be right .
but why make an opening below sea level ?
unless it was designed for submarine access , '' theorized o'flanahan .
that 's what i think .
with a sub , hitler could have come here unobserved .
and it is going to be our way in . ''
if there really was such an opening , why would n't it have been found yet ? ''
briar asked .
it is a concern the germans would also have had .
perhaps they found some way of dealing with that . ''
paul , none of us are deep sea divers .
how do you expect us to go down there ? ''
worried raymonde .
coulter 's looking into that .
before going into the water however , we might be able to use our resources to pinpoint the area . ''
coulter popped open his laptop and began typing .
within seconds , he pushed his laptop to the centre of the table , a smug look on his face take a look at this . ''
we examined a digital display of etretat 's underwater topography .
the exposed seabed was a series of frozen , undulating waves radiating away from the coastline , looking like spokes on a wheel .
the spokes radiated from a central point the aval cliff and the needle .
where did you get this ?
this is great ! ''
o'flanahan exclaimed .
this program allows you to look at any underwater area of the world , using digitized satellite imagery .
it 's not available for public use but i found us a special pass . ''
do you guys see the same pattern that i 'm seeing ? ''
i asked , pointing at the image .
there certainly would be room for a sub in those chasms between the radiating spokes .
look at the one in the centre .
it 's perfectly lined up with the cliff . ''
coulter pressed a few key .
at this scale , the chasm depth would be , uhm , just a sec , about one hundred metres .
i tried comparing rock density to reveal an opening but nothing stood out .
if there 's an entrance down there , it 's well camouflaged . ''
everything points to it being in that central furrow .
the others are simply too far .
when we go looking , that 's where were going , '' i affirmed .
i just hoped coulter came up with something to get us there .
raymonde approached the front door and knocked .
jacques vallin opened , calling out loudly to his brother , who was in the old garage next to the house .
i 'm so sorry for what i said yesterday , '' jacques apologised .
i do n't know what came over me .
i felt like my whole life had been ripped away but now that i 've had a bit of time to think it over , i can see how mr leblanc never had any choice .
he did the best he could to help those who got hurt .
our family just got caught in the middle . ''
ives walked in , his face breaking into a smile .
you two have had a rough time of it , it 's true enough , but there 's no need to worry about the past anymore .
the present seems exciting enough , would n't you say ?
i think we 've figured a way to get into the caves but we 're going to need your local connections is there a boat we could rent , something big and seaworthy ? ''
i asked them .
i know a fellow who 's got a real wide boat on those pontoons .
it 's pretty big and he knows how to keep quiet too , '' ives suggested .
are you talking about languenoc 's boat ? ''
asked jacques .
you know i am , brother . ''
we can go right away and have a talk with him , '' jacques said , getting up .
do n't you worry , mr paul , we 'll get your boat . ''
we agreed to meet on the beach at 8 00 am next morning , hopefully giving coulter enough time to get organized .
his last text message had said he had found something and was working hard to get it here .
arriving back at the villa leblanc , raymonde and i found briar and o'flanahan in the restaurant , still arguing .
we decided to join them .
as i sat down , i received a second call from coulter .
the package was on its way .
he still had more things to arrange , so i wished him good luck .
it was a big undertaking , especially in such little time .
o'flanahan spoke up .
listen , i know i 've been ranting a lot about publishing this thing .
i 'm sure you understand why .
we have uncovered a whopping conspiracy and it 's my business to publish that type of stuff .
this is pure gold .
the biggest conspiracy of them all , right here in our hands , and nobody knows a thing about it .
it 's unbearable ! ''
i know this is an issue for you , o'flanahan .
from the beginning , the great hunt has been teaching us the need for caution .
we have uncovered evidence of a battle fought entirely in the shadows .
can it really be just about caves ?
something does n't fit .
i ca n't express it in words but i can tell you we have not uncovered the real story yet , '' i said .
i 've felt a bit of this myself .
it 's as if we are out of control .
the events keep drawing us further and further into the unknown , '' briar added .
i 've felt like that too .
every day has brought more complexity .
what does it mean ?
where is it leading us ? ''
raymonde asked .
it 's leading us to the caves .
that 's obvious .
when those caves were last entered , the entire world was affected .
hitler and leblanc 's lives were irrevocably altered .
we truly do not know what we are dealing with .
it behooves us to move forward carefully , with due consideration .
to answer your original question , o'flanahan , discretion is not an option , it 's a requirement .
there 's something in those caves .
i can feel it .
until we find out what it is , we must remain absolutely quiet ! ''
i concur wholeheartedly ! ''
supported briar .
the morning found us in the center of etretat 's main beach with the vallin brothers .
a fishing boat was pulled up on shore .
mrs leblanc had declined joining us , her aging body simply not up to the rigours of the task awaiting us .
o'flanahan appeared distinctly greenish when he stepped into the boat .
i looked at jacques vallin .
is this the stable boat you were talking about ? ''
no , mr paul , it is n't .
languenoc 's boat is too big to come this close to the shore .
we arranged for a local fisherman to take us out . ''
i jumped into the boat , joining the others .
ives hopped in deftly , after giving the boat a strong , hard push .
the pilot started the outboard and we headed out to sea .
the boat was bobbing and weaving madly .
i was holding on for dear life , unable to fathom how anyone could earn a living doing something as dangerous as this .
we talked amongst each other , huddled together in the middle of the boat .
i 've done nothing but read and re read leblanc 's journal , this last day , '' briar admitted , wiping the sea spray from his face .
there are a few passages that seem more worthy of note than others . ''
like what ? ''
asked o'flanahan .
in particular , the section where he contacted raymond lindon to reach lupin .
why lindon ? ''
briar started .
yeah , that 's a good one , all right , briar .
i noticed one of my own it was near the beginning when leblanc met father cochet .
he mentioned a couple of names that are rather curious .
in particular , father boudet .
if these names lead us where i suspect , our little conspiracy just connected to a whole family of conspiracies we have n't even considered yet , '' added o'flanahan .
that 's all well and good , o'flanahan but my concern about lindon may be important to us , unlike your vague allusions .
our attention has been hovering over raymond lindon for a while now .
he became leblanc 's lieutenant , helping him through thick and thin .
he was in charge of the net , no small thing there , and now we know he was leblanc 's go between with lupin .
so , again , why lindon ?
he continued playing a role after the war , by purchasing ambrumesy castle and hiding the stone cylinder there .
there can be no question he was an integral part of leblanc 's plans and deserves more attention , '' briar concluded .
i 'm much more curious about that group of numbers at the end of his journal , '' o'flanahan added .
they are obviously a code .
i think his whole journal is off kilter , as if the words were concealing a deeper meaning .
perhaps those numbers are the key .
but that 's not all .
since o'flanahan mentioned maximillian bauer , i have n't been able to keep the story out of my mind .
i did some research and eventually found a single faded picture of the anonymous author of the bauer book .
i compared it to a fuzzy picture of weissmuller from a book about etretat and the second world war .
the two pictures are a close match .
bauer may be weissmuller after all .
i am now trying to find pictures of hitler during the first world war .
perhaps i can find one with our elusive weissmuller standing nearby ... hey , we 're going the wrong way .
the needle is over there .
i do n't want to have to suffer through this torture any more than necessary . ''
jacques took a moment to clarify the situation .
we 're just going to meet captain languenoc . ''
look , there it is .
i can see it , '' raymonde exclaimed as we rounded a bend , languenoc 's ship was finally revealed .
it was an impressive sight .
two large pontoons anchored a massive platform .
near the rear , a series of structures were erected , with a second level featuring the bridge of the ship .
i could not see any form of propulsion but it was moving along at a good clip .
thank god , look at how stable it is , '' said o'flanahan .
the fishing boat swerved smartly , positioning itself next to the nearest pontoon , beside a mooring post and some metal steps .
a large man , wearing a deep blue , woollen shirt and a captain 's hat , waited while we climbed aboard .
welcome to my ship , the 'helen ' . ''
this is a fantastic vessel , captain languenoc ?
my name is paul sirenne . ''
glad to finally meet you , mr sirenne .
jacques told me all about you .
thanks for the comment about helen .
i built her myself , not another one like her , '' he answered , an easy smile complimenting his rugged features .
how come it 's so stable ? ''
wondered coulter .
there are two more pontoons , well below the waves on the surfaces .
i control how much ballast they hold .
gives us instant mass and almost complete stability .
i have four massive water jets powered by that generator over there .
they control the motion of the boat in any direction , giving me the ability to move at speed or to stay exactly where i want . ''
we 'll i 'm impressed , '' coulter admitted .
did our package arrive in time ? ''
a helicopter dropped it off ten minutes before we left port this morning .
good timing on your part , mr coulter .
follow my man .
he 'll show you where it is , while i tend to things here .
i 'll have you where you want to go in about twenty minutes . ''
curious about the mysterious package , everyone followed coulter to a large crate with the words 'oceanographic institute of france ' stamped on the side .
we made quick work of opening it , using a couple of crowbars provided by the captain .
our host had thought of almost everything .
anyone want coffee ?
it 's freshly brewed ! ''
no , i was wrong he had thought of everything after all .
people , let me present to you 'calvin the third ' , '' stated coulter , sounding as if he were showing us a newborn baby .
the pride apparent in his voice , he continued calvin is the latest development in remote controlled underwater camera technology .
from this console , we can direct and watch calvin 's descent , while sitting comfortably on the surface .
additionally , the console records everything on dvd for later analysis .
all we have to do is drop calvin over the side and we can begin our exploration . ''
a selection from the weissmuller manuscript fighting the net after six months of construction , the infrastructure of our underground complex is well established .
i have driven the men hard but it has paid good dividends .
the power station will soon be brought online .
the main connecting tunnels have all been cleared and stabilized .
we have mapped out most of the upper level caves and will be starting on the lower levels within one month .
we have found many curious things in the caves , the most intriguing being a fast growing fungus , unique to the caves , which has fascinating bio luminescent properties .
it was quite dark when we originally entered into the caves but as we pumped fresh air into them , the fungus emitted more and more light until there was no need to use electrical lamps .
while the refurbishing of the caves is going well , the situation above ground is another matter .
when we arrived and completed our takeover , i had felt quite elated by the apparent cowardice of the french resistance .
now , it is clear i was mistaken .
a large component of the local population , commonly called 'the net ' , is actively fighting against us .
they are being clever about it .
it is a war of passive resistance .
at first , there were apparently innocent incidents .
vehicles broke down , gas leaks , fires .
after a month of such incidents , i increased security and severely punished any man linked to the problems .
it soon became obvious these were not acts of carelessness but rather sabotage .
the resistance had chosen to fight a battle of attrition .
i had to admit it was an effective approach , having developed the process to an art form myself .
however , sabotage was only the beginning .
the attacks quickly became more aggressive .
the maquis , an extremist section of the french resistance , made its deadly appearance , attacking vehicles all over the countryside .
during these attacks , my men were killed , the vehicle stolen , leaving little evidence behind .
no one ever heard or saw anything .
rarely , we found hastily buried bodies , deep in the undergrowth .
usually , those bodies were mutilated , showing evidence of torture .
too much violence for the maquis .
i suspected the net was involved .
within several months , what first appeared as an irritating mosquito changed into a murderous jackal snapping at our heels .
nonetheless , i had to remain completely focused on the development of the cave complex .
my weissmuller skin came with an increasing amount of responsibility .
demands on my time were severe .
i could no longer return to the shadows i yearned for .
no matter the intensity of my cravings , i found fewer and fewer occasions to carry out experiments .
i enjoyed the fear my men had of me and the thought of controlling others held a powerful appeal but these pleasures were not enough to drown out the call for experiments .
the murderous acts of the maquis incensed me , challenging me to my core .
they felt safe in the covertness of their actions , believing their power lay in invisibility .
they were wrong .
i could turn invisibility into their achilles ' heel .
i would also carry out torture and murder .
i did not even need to choose specific victims , so long as the blame fell directly upon the maquis and , subsequently , the net .
i would retaliate personally , with every death , every act of sabotage .
my acts would bring fear and horror into the maquis ' heart and leave the blame on the net .
i began going out during the night , alone , draped in the shadows i so loved .
i chose a victim at random , performing experiments reminiscent of the tortures wrought upon my men by the maquis .
i would always leave a small propaganda leaflet , bearing the 'croix de lorraine ' , the french resistance symbol .
over time , rumors spread and locals began viewing the maquis with disfavor , attributing the horrible deaths to them .
this fear eventually extended into their ranks , distrust spreading deep into the net .
they did not know who was doing the killing , thus were powerless to fight against it , foisting upon them the very feelings of helplessness they wished to force upon me .
with every tactical experiment , the intensity of my cravings diminished and my inner calm returned .
i reveled in my dual role for many months , released from the maquis ' manipulations , confident my approach was sufficient to reduce their attacks .
carrying out these nocturnal activities was satisfying but they were also draining .
as a solution , i scheduled a batch of experiments once a week , leaving six full days for the continuing expansion of the cave complex .
one of the rooms fascinated me in particular .
my research indicated francis the first was likely to have been the architect of this chamber , converted into a fabulously wealthy throne room .
i knew hitler would be equally impressed by it .
i was also frustrated by the disappearance of leblanc and lindon .
they had both vanished well before i neared their small town .
they were still acting against us , despite their distant positions .
unfortunately , i had priorities to attend to and could not look for them , no matter their strategic importance .
there was nothing they could do against us now , in any case .
the stronghold was ours .
as the war progressed , i formulated secondary plans to further destabilize the local resistance movement , by striking directly at key personnel .
a few collaborators , blended into the local army , worked the locals and returned with specific results .
the name vallin surfaced , a name i remembered from stories hitler had told me .
however , this vallin was careful and we got no chances to trap him .
during a covert observation of his activities , i uncovered the familiar name of leblanc .
i had found maurice leblanc 's son .
he had joined the resistance movement and was involved in planning many missions .
i prepared a very special experiment , one that would send a message directly into his scheming father 's heart .
maurice leblanc would learn the error of his ways .
i would be his teacher and the lesson would be difficult .
during the period of maquis inspired experiments , i experienced a different excitement .
when i carried out dual purposed experiments , my satisfaction with the process literally doubled .
when i first performed experiments under hitler 's new guidelines , i had felt a similar increase in satisfaction .
recently , with my tactical approach to the maquis situation , increasing the level of purpose enhanced the experiments in a way i could hardly explain .
when i combined my basic desire for experiments with both military purpose and revenge on leblanc 's son , my attention and eagerness nearly tripled in intensity .
i became infused with energy , my planning reaching heights of complexity i had never previously imagined possible .
it was as if i were floating above everyone , my control absolute .
this was the exact reason i had begun my experiments in the first place .
now i knew that i had been looking in the wrong place .
the crescendo of my experiment was not its culmination .
rather , my approach mattered .
it was all about method and purpose !
i had finally found the path i was looking for , and i embraced it without reserve .
safe in the caves , i planned and planned .
maurice leblanc 's son would pay for his father 's sins .
retribution would be at hand .
i would carry out hitler 's orders .
i would build my fortress .
i would establish my true superiority over all others .
i had found purpose !
chapter 15 the secret in the depths captain languenoc had provided a cabin , away from wind and spray , which could damage the electronic equipment .
calvin had been lowered over the side , the portable antenna erected , and we had retreated to the relative comfort of the small room .
our eyes were glued to the monitor as calvin 's cameras revealed the depths of the channel waters .
do n't forget there 's been more than sixty years since anyone 's been down there , if anyone was ever down there , of course . ''
there 's something there , coulter .
i 'm sure of it . ''
i 'm with mr o'flanahan .
i think this is terribly exciting , do n't you , maman ? ''
asked raymonde .
had she just addressed her mother ?
the answer came when mrs leblanc 's voice emanated from a tiny speaker , located on coulter 's laptop yes raymonde , this is wonderful .
it is just as if i were there with you .
these glasses are fantastic .
thank mr coulter for arranging this . ''
although raymonde was wearing her techno glasses , i realised mine were nowhere to be seen .
i re routed the signal from raymonde 's glasses , through my laptop , to mrs leblanc , '' coulter explained .
look , there 's the bottom now , '' briar said .
our eyes returned to the monitor .
coulter went on , as he manipulated calvin 's controls these cameras are so advanced , they do n't need any light .
we are using a combination of sophisticated sonar waves emitted by calvin .
we 're coming to the edge of the trench now .
if we continue along this path we should reach its end within a few minutes .
we should soon see a slight bend on our right . ''
the screen indeed revealed a slow bend in the trench wall , leading into a side canyon of some depth .
remembering my dream , i suggested go into there . ''
calvin headed down the side canyon .
it was about twenty metres wide and formed a deep cut into the trench walls .
suddenly the cameras grew confused in the centre of the screen , becoming blurry .
let me switch to regular lights for this area .
there 's something reflective in the centre . ''
the monitor image flipped , displaying the end of the side canyon in a stark white light .
the steep side walls of the trench closed in rapidly to a sharp line about twenty five metres in front of calvin .
why is the sonar having so much trouble ? ''
asked briar .
over there , see those nodules ?
they could be natural magnetite .
the compass is flying all over the place .
if the magnetic fields surrounding those natural deposits were strong enough , they would probably cause disruptions to most equipment .
sound waves could be similarly affected by odd compositions of the bedrock , or by certain reflective shapes .
there 's nothing here .
this is a dead end .
let 's go back and continue on the original route , '' coulter suggested .
calvin turned around and travelled at a steady speed until it returned to the main trench .
heading down to its end , the cameras revealed something in the depths .
the view screen displayed an increasing quantity of rubble .
rock falls were apparent .
the trench walls had suffered explosive damage at some point in the past .
i kept looking for a giant underwater owl .
calvin floated upward , following the wall of rubble .
it reached an area definitely cleared and flattened .
look at that , '' exclaimed briar .
partially obscured by rubble , at the back of the artificial plateau , was a faint , slightly curved line traversing the cliff wall .
below the line , the stone looked greyer than normal and far smoother .
what is it ? ''
wondered coulter .
it looks like the edge of a circular entrance , do n't you think ? ''
suggested briar .
is it big enough for a submarine ? ''
it 's possible , raymonde .
very good eyes , briar ! ''
i said .
unfortunately , if there had ever been an opening there , it has been sealed , either by the forces of man or nature .
no matter the cause , we will have to accept there is no way into the caves to be found here . ''
our common disappointment left a palpable atmosphere in the cabin .
coulter guided calvin carefully along the natural cleft created by the massive trench walls but found nothing else .
the rock fall covering the ancient opening had eclipsed our best chance .
i could not let go .
my second dream had to be right !
the first one had been prophetic about the bunker and about raymonde .
i had to keep trying .
coulter , why do n't we go back to that side canyon ?
all those strange readings have left me a bit curious . ''
yeah , why not ?
since we 're here and all , '' added o'flanahan .
i was thinking about going back there anyway , '' coulter agreed .
i did n't like that weird stuff with the cameras and the compass either .
we have about another hour of onboard power for calvin .
there 's no umbilical with this baby .
it 's all wireless , can you believe that ?
we 're back at the bottom now .
i 'll turn around and go back the way we came . ''
the side canyon was about thirty metres wide and slowly curved to our left , revealing the odd clump of magnetite on the jagged canyon walls .
why is this side canyon so clean while the other one is full of debris ?
you would expect it to be ... well , is n't that strange . ''
what is it , coulter ? ''
asked briar .
sorry , it 's just that ...
wait a second , let me do something . ''
he directed calvin sideways , while keeping the cameras centered on the cleft at the end of the side canyon .
look at the cleft .
there is something very strange about it .
it seems to be following us . ''
not following us , my boy , it 's changing perspective !
will you look at that , '' exclaimed briar .
the cleft did indeed seem to be constantly re adjusting to remain in the exact centre of our field of vision .
there could only be one explanation .
make calvin head directly into the cleft .
aim it right at the centre . ''
coulter complained about crashing expensive equipment but did as i asked .
we watched the monitors intently as calvin inched forward , closer and closer to the rock wall .
as we neared , the cleft stretched out and the image distorted .
uhm , i 'm losing calvin 's signal , something 's going on down there . ''
keep going , push the motors to the max and power up all the sensors on that thing . ''
but it 'll crash . ''
i do n't care .
just ram it .
do it . ''
coulter unwillingly aimed it for the wavering cleft .
at the exact point when it should have smashed into the stone cleft , everything went crazy on the monitor .
the image warped bizarrely on both sides , stressing the centre point until it completely split apart .
calvin 's cameras were wobbling as they flashed on giant silvery disks , one on the left and the other on the right .
i 'm losing calvin .
i ca n't hold it , '' screamed coulter , in a fit of panic .
calvin entered an uncontrolled spiralling descent .
just before calvin 's signal failed completely , the cameras whirled around one last time , giving us a single view of a long tunnel heading into the cliff .
calvin 's command centre had been turned off , useless now , with the loss of the deep sea camera .
coffees had been refilled and coulter was preparing an analysis of the amazing footage we had obtained .
everybody gather round .
i 'm going to replay the last moments at half speed . ''
the screen brightened for a moment and the image coalesced into a view of the seabed floor , as we approached the side canyon 'end ' , which we now knew to be a disguised passage .
did you see those strange owl eyes ?
what do you think those were ? ''
asked raymonde , her words giving me a start .
my dream .
hold on , we 're getting there , the weird stuff 's about to start .
let me slow it down to frame by frame .
here we go . ''
coulter ran his fingers over the keyboard , presenting a still image of the two canyon walls forming the cleft .
now , calvin is about to start moving sideways .
that was when we noticed the bizarre 'change of perspective ' , '' informed coulter .
look , there it goes , '' stated briar , the perspective jumps with each frame .
it 's as if the meeting point of the two canyon walls is re adjusting to our changing point of view . ''
each wall seems to be stretching or compressing , depending on where we are .
the end result is the cleft is always right in front , '' o'flanahan added .
it 's got to be an illusion of some sort , '' affirmed coulter .
a voice spoke up from his speaker .
i had forgotten mrs leblanc was still looking at everything through raymonde 's glasses .
i 've seen something like that before .
that strange effect of always having the same point exactly in your centre of vision .
i 'm not sure if that information can be helpful . ''
anything could be useful at this point , mrs leblanc , '' i replied .
it 's just a small area downstairs , in a corner , near the front desk of the villa leblanc .
i had mirrors installed in the corner and placed some plants in front of it .
it made the corner look so much bigger .
whenever you looked in the corner , you could n't see your face .
it was always hidden by the joining point of the two mirrors , the cleft .
you could bend your head this way or that and the corner seemed to shift with you , matching your every move . ''
maybe those disks are mirrors , '' theorized coulter .
o'flanahan made a desultory gesture .
mirrors ?
you ca n't be serious .
look in front of you .
we are seeing a three dimensional image . ''
hold on , o'flanahan , '' i objected .
coulter , fast forward the video a bit . ''
once again , we witnessed a strange flattening of the cleft , during the underwater camera 's final , calamitous approach toward the canyon wall .
freeze it for a second , would you coulter ?
now , o'flanahan , look at what is happening here all cleft details are grainier and stretched out .
this supports mrs leblanc 's comparison to a mirror .
however , i do n't think these are regular mirrors .
move ahead a bit more , coulter . ''
a line appeared in the centre of the screen .
this is where i lost control of calvin , '' remembered coulter .
it 's also when we saw those huge owl eyes , '' added raymonde .
i do n't think they were eyes . ''
i predicted .
move the images forward until we see them again . ''
coulter complied quickly , just as curious to see them revealed .
the line grew wider and wider , until the canyon walls were completely gone .
by then , calvin was rotating uncontrollably in a wide circle , falling to the seabed .
the images swirled slowly until the first eye came into view .
coulter froze the image .
will you look at that , '' exclaimed raymonde it does look like a giant owl eye but it is a mirror , is n't it ? ''
i nodded .
yes .
i believe we are looking at a concave mirror , built on an inconceivable scale , able to project a very large image .
when i was younger , a friend showed me a magic trick .
it was a small , black conical pyramid with an open top where a penny floated .
try as you might , you could not touch that penny .
your fingers would just float through it because , in fact , the penny was n't there .
it was sitting below , in the bottom of a bowl shaped mirror .
because of its concave shape , you saw the penny 's reflection floating in front of the mirror surface , not behind it . ''
look , calvin 's rotated around and there 's the second mirror , exactly opposite the first one .
this one is a bit clearer .
we can see more details .
gosh , it 's huge .
what 's that shape in the middle ? ''
wondered coulter .
i think it 's a miniature side canyon wall .
the mirrors reflect the image , hugely magnified .
the two mirrors act in concert projecting an illusion of rock walls in the center .
that 's why the centre kept shifting .
we were looking at two projected images , '' i added .
hey , check that out , '' coulter exclaimed , freezing the image again and jabbing his finger at a corner of the monitor .
the whole wall is covered with small pocks .
that explains everything . ''
what are you talking about , coulter , '' badgered o'flanahan .
calvin 's deep sea camera worked with sound waves .
when we went into the side canyon and looked at the end , the signals got all messed up . ''
i remember that .
you had to switch to regular lights , '' remarked briar .
that 's right .
whoever built this place covered the walls with small concave indentations .
any sound wave hitting those pocks would be sent careening in some side direction and the signal would be lost .
it 's brilliant .
that magnetite was probably planted too ! ''
it explains how this place stayed hidden for so long , '' mentioned briar , they certainly planned well . ''
look at tunnel , '' pointed raymonde .
there it was , the tunnel i had known we would find .
there had been no doubt in my mind it simply had to be there .
a large arch stretched over the entrance to the tunnel , shaped somewhat like an owl 's beak .
the dream was complete !
we had found the way in .
now , all we needed was some convenient transportation to get us physically down there .
coulter , we need to talk to captain languenoc . ''
the captain was heading to a point off etretat 's beach .
we would use his ship as a base of operations .
he had assured me the second item coulter had ordered could be docked easily on the left pontoon .
coulter informed me he had been successful in its rental .
given the amount of money he had thrown at the owners , the item should be here within a few days !
languenoc would contact us when it arrived .
we decided to head back to shore .
jacques vallin made a quick phone call , using o'flanahan 's cell phone .
the fishing boat is on its way .
should be here soon . ''
i ca n't wait , '' said o'flanahan , his voice laced with sarcasm .
as we approached the beach , it seemed to be much busier than when we left .
i did n't like it .
i looked at the vallin brothers .
keep a sharp eye out . ''
yes sir , mr paul . ''
the fishing boat hit the bottom gently , carried in by the fading crest of a wave .
the vallins jumped out first , ives holding the boat steady , while jacques looked around like a hawk .
i helped raymonde out .
there was tension in the air , as if an electrical storm was about to break .
both briar and o'flanahan stayed close as coulter jumped out , obviously feeling the same apprehension .
suddenly a man stepped out from the crowd , limping badly .
norton !
he was still holding the stubby little pistol , aimed straight in our direction , his face contorted in a rictus of rage .
briar stood on my left .
o'flanahan was on my right .
raymonde and coulter were behind me to one side .
norton aimed his pistol , seeming ready to shoot .
he was mumbling .
i could n't hear what he was saying .
a woman noticed norton 's levelled pistol and screamed .
he jumped at the sound , his face jittery , and the crowd ran away from him in panic .
a blur of metal shot towards norton from my left , planting itself right into his gun arm with a solid 'thock .
norton screamed in pain , dropping the pistol into the sand .
jacques vallin had thrown a knife !
he was holding another one , looking ready for anything .
norton grabbed his arm , his screams turning to whimpers as he bent down desperately to pick up his pistol .
before norton could reach it , ives vallin 's big meaty hand clamped down on the inspector 's ravaged arm , grabbing his shoulder with the other hand .
lifting the man bodily off the ground , ives shook him roughly .
norton looked done in .
most tourists had run away but a large group of men remained , forming a loose circle around us , perhaps curious to see what would happen next .
ives lowered norton and we approached cautiously .
the long knife was still sticking out of his right arm , blood dripping from the wound .
he was barely conscious .
i stopped in front of him , briar hovering protectively .
norton looked up and laughed .
it was a pitiful sound .
you again ...
i know you now .
i was wrong earlier when i said it was me in the mirror .
he he he .
i know that now .
i figured it out .
you almost had me fooled .
it was n't me , it was you ! ''
listening to him speaking in circles , i was finally convinced norton was the shadow killer .
it had to be him .
he had two personalities , one forever chasing the other .
whoever got in his way became the shadow killer to him .
no wonder so many of his friends had been killed .
having spoken those few words with a failing , gasping breath , norton collapsed weakly in ives vallin 's arms .
in a sudden frenetic move , his left hand shot out , grasping the knife stuck in his right arm .
he wrenched it out in a desperate jerk , blood spurting from his wound , trailing after the knife .
he twisted out of ives ' grip and jerked his body up , bringing himself to a standing position .
using his last reserves of energy , he stabbed at me with the bloody blade .
briar , the ever alert briar , jumped in between , his hand jabbing out in a frantic attempt to stop the oncoming blow .
norton swerved the knife past briar 's outstretched arm , aiming directly at his chest , instead of mine .
briar swivelled around in a rapid sideways move , barely avoiding injury .
his left hand grasped the stabbing knife by the handle , squeezing norton 's hand in an iron grip .
in an adrenaline infused move , briar jerked the bloody knife out from his ripped shirt , norton 's arm trailing , his hand pinned inside briar 's tense grip .
for a moment , everything froze !
briar was standing , his arm held high , the blood covered knife reaching the top of its arc .
i glimpsed a light of anger and rage still burning in norton 's eyes , despite his desperate circumstances .
i could feel raymonde 's hand on the small of my back and saw o'flanahan standing to my right , his eyes open and alert .
then , time clicked back in , and the knife flashed , impelled with tremendous force , as briar twisted it back down and under , slicing directly into norton 's abdomen and slamming it up , straight into his heart !
the flame of life faded from norton 's eyes and , after one final breath , he fell limply to the ground , taking the shadow killer 's secrets with him .
briar released the knife in horror .
my god , what have i done ?
it all happened so fast .
first he tried to stab you , then i stopped him and i ...
i stabbed him .
i could n't stop myself .
i 'm sorry .
so sorry . ''
raymonde patted his back in sympathy .
thankfully , briar had escaped serious harm .
i thought him finished for a moment .
he had moved so very fast !
so had the vallins .
everybody had , while i stood around , doing absolutely nothing !
he was crazy , briar , nothing could have stopped him .
it would have happened sooner or later .
at least now , it 's over , '' o'flanahan said .
i was thankful for briar saving my life but now a man was dead because of me , even if it was the shadow killer .
perhaps if i had told him what he had wanted to know , things would have turned out differently .
the circle of discontented men had grown to an alarming number .
now with norton 's death , the men became downright unruly and the circle tightened .
some were holding improvised weapons , branches , clubs and shotguns .
this does n't look good .
you 'd better handle this , sirenne , '' o'flanahan said , supportive as ever .
jacques vallin stood protectively to my right and ives towered over my shoulder .
the crowd was upon us , several shotguns aimed at our feet .
they looked determined .
it 's time for you to leave .
you are bringing too much attention to this place , '' blustered a thickset man .
his shotgun inched up , adding a serious threat to his words .
no one is going to threaten mr paul .
no one , do you hear ?
or you 'll have to deal with me , and you all know me and what i can do , '' ives vallin roared , completely ignoring the shotgun .
a knife , thrown with incredible accuracy , planted itself into the sand , inches from the thickset man 's feet .
and me .
you all know me too , '' jacques warned .
the thickset man shifted his feet and retreated back into the anonymity of the crowd , his gun almost slipping from his trembling hands .
the crowd had taken a step back , not expecting the aggressive reaction of the vallin brothers .
i used the lull to try and take control of the situation instead of being buffeted by it .
i would not remain frozen again .
it 's time to calm down and talk this out .
is there one who could step forward and talk ?
a bit of civility could lead us much further than threats and violence , do n't you think ? ''
many looked away , unwilling to meet my gaze .
another man stepped out from the group .
i 'll talk . ''
he was a tall man , thin , with piercing blue eyes and a bushy moustache .
very well .
my name is ... '' we do n't care who you are .
you 're just like all the others .
we 've dealt with your type before .
you 've been snooping around since you arrived .
we 've been watching you .
we 're used to regular tourists , even the lupin fanatics , but when you had that chase yesterday , we felt it was time to get you to move on .
with what we 've just seen , a murder this time , on our very beach , we know it 's time for you to go .
we 'll deal with the body .
no police .
just pack your bags , leave , and never come back . ''
they were watching us ?
why do you want us to move on ?
why are we a threat ? ''
i shot back .
while the others milled around in indecision , the man explained himself we do n't like strangers who snoop .
this is our town .
you come here to stir up trouble .
you could destroy everything we have here .
we want you to leave . ''
well , that was plain enough !
however , it did n't explain much , sounding more like dogma than anything .
familiar dogma .
you said you were watching us .
how long have you been watching people ? ''
since long before you were born , mister .
this is our town and we intend to protect it , '' he answered .
this was starting to make sense , in a strange sort of way .
do you remember when you started protecting your town ? ''
i asked , looking around at each of them do any of you ?
or are you doing what your parents told you ?
to protect your town ?
to keep the secret ?
do you remember what started all this , what started the net ? ''
a murmur swept through the crowd .
i was on the right track .
you 're what 's left of the net are n't you ?
doing what your parents did ?
not knowing why it had to be done , just that you had to be on the lookout ?
that 's it , is n't it ? ''
how do you know all this , mister ?
how do you know about us ? ''
allow me to introduce raymonde leblanc , maurice leblanc 's great granddaughter .
some of you may not know her .
she has been living in british columbia for a while .
the reason your net was created was to protect maurice leblanc , her great grandfather .
i suspect you may have forgotten this .
so , let me remind you your parents , and their parents before them , swore to protect etretat 's big secret .
the leblanc family held that secret .
you are here to protect her . ''
the man with the moustache resisted how do we know you 're saying the truth , mister ? ''
what if i said it was the truth ?
would you believe me , you bunch of idiots ? ''
the thin , wheezing voice came from the edge of the beach , barely audible , where a taxi had stopped , disgorging a determined looking mrs leblanc and an older man with two crutches .
bequilles !
that 's right , you all know what i did in the war , so do n't you go questioning me .
i know these people and i know why they 're here .
you idiots could n't even realize you 're not here to kick them out , you 're here to protect them .
it is a bit my fault because there is something i have told none of you , never thinking the time would actually come that man there , standing next to miss leblanc , is paul sirenne !
long , long ago , i was told by raymond lindon a man with that name would be coming one day and , on that day , purpose would return to our town .
well , he is right there in front of you .
quite a reception you 've given him i must say .
i 'm too tired and too old for all this nonsense .
i 'm going home . ''
without another word , bequilles returned to the waiting taxi , heading back to his small apartment .
his task was done , thanks to mrs leblanc .
she was removing her techno glasses .
she had done the one thing she could to help .
her timing could not have been better .
but how could bequilles have known about me , before i was even born ?
by the time mrs leblanc made her way to the dock , the crowd 's mood had changed completely .
people were moving off the beach , letting us join mrs leblanc .
several men converged on norton 's body , including the vallin brothers .
o'flanahan accompanied the group , eager to be part of a developing conspiracy .
within moments , the crowd had dispersed , as if nothing had taken place .
the man with the moustache walked along with us .
we 're really sorry , mr sirenne , miss leblanc .
we just did n't know .
we 've been watching for so long , we lost track of the most important things .
we wo n't make that mistake again .
you can count on us .
you do what you have to .
we 'll keep an eye out for you . ''
these loyal etretatais had been given an incredible sense of purpose , to protect something so important it could never be revealed .
it had set them apart from everyone else , like a 'country unto itself ' , as leblanc had said .
my head spun with the enormity of it all a single event , distant by a century , was still affecting thousands , perhaps millions of people today .
i returned in my mind to when leblanc and hitler entered into those caves .
that moment had sent ripples out into time , affecting everyone in its path , right up to today , culminating in norton 's death moments ago .
a shudder ran up my spine , as i understood the responsibility for these caves was being thrust directly into my hands .
although i had not yet set foot in those caves , i was already irrevocably connected to them .
a band of sweat broke on my brow and i felt faint , thinking of norton 's blood , leblanc , hitler , the caves , and bequilles with my name on his lips .
paul , are you all right ? ''
raymonde asked , noticing my change in demeanour .
i was spinning , my head whirling , buffeted by the events , everything overtaking me .
i felt as if my life was spiralling out of control .
i need to sit down .
i seem to have lost my bearings , '' i said .
my thoughts continued unravelling and i felt increasingly dizzy .
do n't worry , i 've got you , mr paul , '' ives said , his strong arm giving me support i suddenly needed .
i was helped to a beach chair , proffered by a concerned man nearby .
i sat down and immediately closed my eyes , trying to slow the insane spinning .
here 's some water , '' raymonde said , sliding a water bottle in my left palm .
i put it on my forehead for a moment , savouring its coolness .
i uncapped the water bottle and took a long drink , keeping my eyes closed , regaining a bit of perspective .
i opened my eyes , adjusting to the sunlight .
more than thirty people surrounded me .
my friends were nearest , with members of the net in the background .
in the distance , a man with a black bag was running towards us .
the amount of concern overwhelmed me yet again and i closed my eyes for another moment .
paul ?
you 're scaring me , '' raymonde said , her voice thick with emotion .
i 'm okay , i think .
i just need a bit of quiet , '' i answered shakily .
make way for the doctor !
the doctor is here . ''
the crowd parted , allowing the man with the black back to approach .
there 's no need for all this fuss , really , '' i objected weakly , only to be tut tutted by the doctor .
why do n't you let me be the judge of that , young man ?
hmm ?
move back everybody .
give him some room , he needs fresh air . ''
his hands flew all over , checking my pulse , temperature , eyes , ears , heart , nothing escaped .
you seem to be suffering from mild shock , young man .
everything should be fine after a good rest .
would you like a tranquiliser ? ''
uhm , no , i do n't think so but thank you .
there 's no need to go to all this trouble , '' i argued again .
listen , young man if i took the trouble to come here this fast , you can certainly take the trouble of following my orders .
you get some rest .
let things sort themselves for a while . ''
the doctor gave my shoulder a quick pat and snapped his black bag shut .
it 's all over folks .
he 's fine .
he 'll be up and around in no time . ''
i was lying on raymonde 's bed , resting as ordered .
my friends had stayed for a while but eventually opted for the restaurant .
everyone was slightly uncomfortable , especially around briar .
raymonde entered .
are you up for some company ? ''
she asked .
sure .
i 'm feeling much better now .
i 'm so sorry .
i did n't mean to scare anybody . ''
i know .
it 's okay , '' she said , as she sat on the bed .
it all happened so fast .
norton attacked and he , uhm , he died , and the net confronted us .
after bequilles mentioned my name , i was standing there , my thoughts rolling around leblanc and hitler going into those caves .
that 's what started it , i think .
that single event caused a huge impact on the entire world and nobody even knows !
hitler 's actions in world war 2 are directly related to these caves .
my entire family 's history , my father 's murder , is all due to leblanc and his plans to leave a heritage .
a killer is now dead because of us .
my name is not even my name , it 's lupin .
bequilles said my arrival was foretold decades before i was even born .
everything around me was connected to these caves , even you .
and now , it was my life being affected by these caves .
i had nothing to hold on to , nothing that was mine .
it was all for the caves . ''
you seemed ready to faint .
you got so pale . ''
my head was spinning .
it just would n't stop .
as a final blow , with norton 's death , i realised , with inescapable clarity , that the responsibility of this secret was being placed solidly into my hands .
why me ?
why did they prepare all this , leblanc , lindon , lupin ?
what were they doing and why was it so important that i return ? ''
you 've got to give it some time .
despite the shock of norton 's final moments , at least we know it 's over !
the shadow killer is dead .
we are free of his manipulations .
you can lay your family to rest , their deaths avenged .
as for leblanc and the others , all that happened a long time ago .
it 's over and done with .
we may be just finding out about it but the story itself is finished . ''
is it , raymonde ?
it does n't feel finished .
it feels vibrant and alive .
you are right about one thing leblanc , hitler , lindon , lupin , they 're all gone .
however , i can feel their influence on everything .
no matter that they are dead , their ideas , their thoughts have lived on and the result is i have been brought here , to uncover the mysteries they left for me . ''
the past was gone but it was also still with us , appearing between the cracks , directing our movements , its ideas still powerful , undiminished by the passage of time .
as i lay there , reflecting , raymonde leaned over and gave me a hug .
it became longer , until she stretched out and we fell asleep in each other 's arms .
a knock on the door woke us up .
a glance at the bedside clock told me it was almost suppertime .
i felt grounded again after the much needed rest .
my shoulder was better , almost back to normal .
raymonde opened the door .
mrs leblanc was standing there , holding two steaming plates .
i thought you two might be hungry .
everyone else has eaten and retired to their rooms .
no one felt much like speaking anyway . ''
come in , maman .
thanks ! ''
raymonde exclaimed , taking the two plates from her mother .
i sat with them at the small table .
for a while , no one spoke .
we picked at our plates , too excited to be hungry .
giving up , i leaned back , looking at mrs leblanc , while raymonde resolutely tried to finish her plate .
mrs leblanc , i have something i would like to ask .
it might be a bit forward on my part but i simply must find out . ''
paul ? ''
it 's all right , raymonde , '' mrs leblanc said , i know where he 's going with this .
go ahead , paul , ask your question . ''
i 've been thinking about the role you 've played in our discoveries .
for example you were there , just in time , to save me , when i was in the vallin 's house .
there 's the comments you made about leblanc 's journal which started us on our chase to perpignan .
you knew by heart the address of the place in perpignan , where you and maurice leblanc stayed .
the ditty which helped us find maurice leblanc 's journal .
sending us to bequilles .
there 's hitler 's letter displayed prominently in maurice leblanc 's office , which you brought me to see .
almost everything we have achieved has been due to your timely intervention .
today , your timing was perfect , when you arrived with bequilles in tow . ''
just ask your question , '' mrs leblanc prodded .
very well .
you seem to know much more than you have let on .
do you ? ''
of course i do .
i am the grand daughter of maurice leblanc .
how could i not ?
surely that must have been obvious to you for a while now . ''
she admitted , her stance completely different .
her back was straighter , her voice sure and confident .
maman ? ''
yes , my dear , it 's true !
after grand papa 's death , friends of the family , part of the net , brought me up .
raymond lindon played a role in my upbringing as well .
when the time was right , he gave me some letters from grand papa .
they revealed many things about what he had prepared .
the letters told me paul would come and that i should help him find answers .
raymonde , i was going to tell you about all this , on your thirty fifth birthday as arranged .
when paul arrived six months early , everything moved so quickly i had no opportunity to sit with you and explain . ''
raymonde was shocked .
i 'm so sorry , raymonde but grand papa was very clear on certain points .
i had to wait until a specific time before i could tell you everything . ''
everything , maman ?
is there more ? ''
grand papa left us more than a few letters .
he left a trust , a very large trust , with over one hundred million francs .
the money was entrusted to me , to prepare for your return and for paul 's arrival .
so now , following grand papa 's wishes , the trust will be passed on to you , my daughter , so you may help paul finish what was started so long ago . ''
and what is that , mrs leblanc ? ''
i wondered aloud .
why , to reclaim your heritage , our combined heritage , paul .
my ancestors and yours have prepared the way .
you have only to reach out and it will be yours .
for a while now , bequilles and i have been the only ones to know the truth .
the net had been allowed to lay dormant , another part of grand papa 's plans , waiting for the day of your arrival .
i was prepared for all these things .
nothing could have prepared me for you two ending up in love . ''
she stood up , gazing at us tenderly i could n't be prouder . ''
with tears in her eyes , after a brief hug and kiss , she left the room .
you know what this means , do n't you ? ''
what , paul ? ''
we 're both multi millionaires now . ''
arriving downstairs early next morning , i was back to my old self .
entering the restaurant with raymonde , i found jonathan briar and mrs leblanc .
the others were nowhere to be seen .
briar stood , concern evident on his face .
good morning to both of you .
i am glad to see you up and around . ''
i am feeling much better .
how about you ? ''
i added .
i am fine .
i thought i might be bothered about what i did to norton but i am not .
i rid the world of a monster and that has to be a good thing . ''
we sat down and the waitress took our breakfast order .
briar continued .
physically , i was very lucky .
i escaped with only a few scratches , thank god .
last night i was in shock but this morning , reason tells me norton would have stopped at nothing to get at you .
despite all that , the memory will be with me for a long while . ''
where are the other two ? ''
i asked , curious .
captain languenoc called for coulter .
he had some news about whatever it is we are waiting for and needed some help smoothing things over for a speedy delivery . ''
coulter was excellent at smoothing difficulties .
o'flanahan went down to the beach , with plans to walk around and get the feel of the place , '' briar added breakfast arrived and we ate .
i stuck to coffee , not feeling hungry .
i did n't think coulter would succeed in his endeavours today but there was a fair chance tomorrow morning might bring better luck .
briar had a pensive look in his eyes .
paul , would you be up to a walk in that wonderful garden out back ?
i have a few things i would like to share .
it should n't take more than a few minutes . ''
certainly .
i 'll bring my cup of coffee with me , if that 's okay , mrs leblanc ?
i 'll be right back . ''
take your time .
i 'll sit here with maman , '' added raymonde .
briar and i made our way outside .
stepping down the stone stairs , we walked along the brick path .
my boy , you had me quite worried yesterday , '' briar started .
i 'm sorry about that .
i do n't know what came over me . ''
the thing is , i think you know exactly what happened .
that is why i asked you to come out here .
we 've known each other for more than ten years , so i guess it 's no secret i 've come to look upon you as the son i never had .
this means so much more now that your father is gone .
that 's why i found yesterday so painful to watch .
my boy , i must speak frankly . ''
go ahead .
i know you mean well .
hey , you just risked your life to save mine . ''
all these events are putting an unexpected , perhaps even unwanted , load on your shoulders .
you can not understand how this comes to be and you can not accept you are being singled out , '' briar said , his finger pointing at me in emphasis .
i have lived many years longer than you and have travelled all over the world .
experience has taught me much .
you have stayed mostly at home , surrounded by your books , always living as if in a cave , missing out on life .
yesterday , that shock was a necessary step for you , paul . ''
we sat down on a stone bench .
your breakdown was , i believe , the result of refusing to face up to these events .
you stood frozen , when norton attacked , unwilling to protect yourself .
had i not been there , you might well have died !
it is time for you to stop being afraid , to stop being the 'armchair detective ' and to accept that , in the real world , events have conspired to place you in the centre of things .
if you keep refusing what is , you will drive yourself mad .
life is asking you to step up to the plate .
what are you going to do ?
close your eyes and look away ?
or are you going to grasp what is in front of you for all it 's worth ?
in so doing , you may just discover what life has in store for you , '' briar finished .
my fear slipped away .
this was what i had been preparing for .
briar was right !
it was time to step up to the plate .
i still did n't know why it was intended for me but i would no longer shy away .
i would follow the great hunt through to the end .
if this was to be my challenge then so be it !
thank you , briar , thank you . ''
raymonde was running towards us , a note in her hand .
you wo n't believe this .
the net has invited us to a meeting .
they want to know what 's going on . ''
what ?
when ? ''
mid afternoon .
they 're sending someone to pick us up in an hour . ''
coming in with briar , we met o'flanahan , just returning from his expedition , looking excited .
sitting down in the restaurant , i called coulter , informing him of the upcoming meeting with the net .
we have n't been here two days and already the cat 's out of the bag .
what are we going to tell them ? ''
he wondered .
i do n't know .
i do n't want to lie .
let me think about it .
i 'll come up with something . ''
i 'm still wrapping things up here .
we had a few glitches and it got kind of expensive .
i wo n't make it for that meeting .
the good news is we should be good for tomorrow . ''
great .
i knew i could count on you . ''
snapping the cell phone shut , i looked at o'flanahan .
he was acting like a little boy , bursting with news , hardly able to contain himself .
this morning , i went down to the beach and checked out a bunch of those touristy features .
i saw that mysterious door in the cliff and the oyster beds .
on the way back , i met up with ives and jacques vallin and we decided to share a bottle of wine .
we started talking about the coin old man vallin had left in the cigar box hidden under his mattress , you remember ? ''
he asked , waiting for confirmation that i did , indeed , remember .
seeing my nod , he continued one thing led to another , we ended up at their place , where we found another bottle of wine .
and the coin , of course .
they would n't let me bring it back but i made a pencil rubbing so i could show you . ''
he pulled a tattered sheet of onion paper out of his trouser pocket and laid it on the table .
if you look at the date on this side of the coin , you 'll note it says 1306 .
if you'r familiar with coins , you 'll know this one was minted by edward the second , king of england .
i 've been wondering a wee bit , if this coin could n't possibly provide us with proof that cartier did steal some gold from oak island ?
could n't that just be possible ?
could n't it , sirenne ? ''
o'flanahan was insufferable .
he was throwing his beloved oak island farce in my face again , using whatever was conveniently at hand .
it was unfortunate the gold coin fit nicely with his theory , making it irritatingly harder to refute .
what can i say ?
yes , i must agree with you that a gold coin minted in 1306 ... '' he interrupted me .
an english coin . ''
raymonde unsuccessfully tried to suppress a smile and briar looked up at the ceiling in exasperation .
yes , an english coin minted in 1306 might be construed to fit into a contrived theory about oak island , if you could prove the english had been buried there .
i 'm sorry , o'flanahan , but it 's so weak it hardly holds up .
while the gold coin does nothing to hurt your theory , there is simply not enough to support it . ''
he shook his head , his lower jaw sticking out , making him resemble even more the bulldog he made me think of .
he was about to bark a counter argument but raymonde stopped him , laughter obvious in her voice mr o'flanahan , i have enjoyed listening to your theory .
perhaps we could talk about it again later ?
right now , we have to prepare ourselves .
it is nearing mid afternoon .
the net will be here to pick us up soon . ''
i finished my coffee and got up .
i 'm not sure what to expect .
i 'm just going to have to play it by ear . ''
well , i hope you can play a good tune , my boy , '' briar added pointedly .
chapter 16 a meeting with the net a procession of three vehicles arrived , exactly on time .
a well dressed chauffeur stepped out of a rolls royce , opening the rear door .
mr sirenne , miss leblanc .
would you both be so kind as to step into my vehicle ?
the others will follow in the remaining cars , '' we headed out of town .
after several circuitous turns , the driver stopped on the side of a non descript dirt road .
two other cars were already parked .
they were empty .
the driver hurried around the rolls royce and opened the side door .
if you would follow me . ''
the driver led us into the woods , revealing a small trail .
it was well maintained , having recently been shored up in many places .
we arrived at a small clearing .
near the far end , a small group of people waited .
a short , pudgy man smiled widely as we approached , holding out his thick hand .
i shook it , surprised by the steel in his grip .
he was literally bubbling with enthusiasm .
mr sirenne , i am so pleased to finally meet you .
thank you for accepting our invitation .
i am adrien tonnetot , mayor of etretat , this is our treasurer , mr joseph , and that is my good friend , alain boisvert .
we are the , uhm , the ad hoc committee selected to represent the net .
we brought you here , to show you this . ''
mayor tonnetot pulled back the branches of a large bush , revealing a narrow , marble slab , bearing a long list of names .
each had died on the same day , in 1916 .
the list had a simple heading 'you will be avenged ! '
this stone was found about ten years ago .
it had somehow been completely forgotten .
who placed it here ?
more importantly , why ?
no one seemed to know .
it can not be coincidence these people died on the same night .
it is what has re awakened the net , sleeping for so long , '' the mayor explained .
he remained quiet for a moment , looking at the stone slab .
yesterday , when bequilles revealed you were the one we had long waited for , most of us were convinced this was the time to bring the net fully back to life .
many of us have met to discuss this issue .
most of our members want , no , need answers .
our history demands it .
that is why i called this meeting and i must thank you for agreeing to attend .
i felt it best to discuss these issues privately with you for now .
later , i will inform the net about the topics we have discussed .
these people who elected me , my friends , have been waiting for this moment a very long time .
since our birth , we have been indoctrinated in a society of our ancestors ' making , prepared for a purpose we never understood to help you .
now that you are finally here , mr paul sirenne , after all these years , not one of us can wait a single moment longer .
we need to re discover our purpose . ''
his earnest words filled me with amazement .
these people wanted me not only to help them understand what had brought them here but also to lead them .
it made me flash back to my father 's words 'a real story ends near etretat , lost until paul infers new ideas subtly .
you ought understand responsibility , necessarily after moiling etretat ' could this be the responsibility to which he was referring ?
that word 'moiling ' was certainly indicative .
it meant to dig , to move dirt , to mess things around .
the more i dug , the more responsibility i would find .
the mayor continued our parents all told us some things were best left forgotten and time had to pass before etretat could regain its glory .
they also said a day would come when our heritage would return .
until then , we were to keep quiet , each swearing to it on our fifteenth birthday .
silence above all !
we all know how much we already owe maurice leblanc and raymond lindon .
every net member , every family in etretat was helped financially in some way by them .
loans , no interest mortgages or outright donations of cash , there was no limit to their generosity .
the survival of our town is due solely to them .
we can not ignore what these men have done for us in the past . ''
i realised the net members owed everything they had to the caves , to the riches within and to the moral men who had created the net .
briar 's words came back , reminding me of my nascent role as leader of men , a role i had never expected to play .
i am just as indebted to leblanc and lindon as every one of you .
my presence here is the result of my great grandfather preparing the way for me , using clues and codes .
just like each of you , i was placed on the trail of a forgotten mystery and , as you have seen , a dangerous one , even today .
however , we have not completely solved this puzzle yet , i am sorry to say .
in the past , maurice leblanc shared nothing of what he knew with net members .
today , the conditions requiring this are long gone and the original people concerned are dead .
time has healed many wounds .
i think we must break with tradition and share our knowledge with the net .
we are all involved . ''
no more games , no more deceit , not with these people .
an entire group was ready to help me .
all i had to do was to trust them , to give them the answers they had been seeking all their lives in 1911 , maurice leblanc found a secret so phenomenal it had to be kept out of public hands .
he was not the only one on the trail .
another man knew of the secret , a true monster .
maurice leblanc decided he must do whatever possible to stop him .
your ancestors banded together to help protect leblanc and etretat but the cost was high . ''
i lowered the tone of my voice and spoke respectfully i know what happened to the people named on your mysterious stone .
they were killed by the man maurice leblanc was fighting , probably one of the most dangerous men in the world .
adolf hitler ! ''
the mayor 's eyes widened .
i continued leblanc appealed to his friends , to old man vallin , to raymond lindon and , in turn , to all of your grand parents .
a net was formed , a group of people protecting something they knew nothing about .
leblanc hatched a trap for hitler that would take many years to unfold .
once sprung , decades would have to pass , to give the world time to forget .
so leblanc prepared for the future , when it would be safe , the monster dead and forgotten .
your parents were part of that plan , as were mine , far away in canada .
now , together , we will re discover what has lain hidden in your midst .
unfortunately , the path is not a simple one .
our only chance to be successful is to work together !
i have been called here , to etretat , to do this very thing .
so , let us seize this moment .
the net must return to full and active duty , our ancestors must be honoured . ''
the mayor was beaming .
he grabbed my hand , pumping it effusively .
i think i can speak for all of the net when i say we accept !
we accept most proudly and eagerly .
the net has returned , with paul sirenne at the helm !
with you in place , there will be nothing we can not achieve . ''
i was dreaming again .
i was floating over etretat , high in the air , moving in a great lazy circle around the aval cliff .
it was night yet i could see clearly .
yellow light illuminated everything , emanating from inside the cliff , growing brighter by the second , shining through the rock .
a swastika lit the cliff from within using this overpowering light .
i circled it in total silence , my eyes glued on the symbol of so much hatred and so much pain .
seeing both front and back , something about the opposite images drew my attention but the light interfered , growing in brightness .
the light increased in intensity until it blotted everything out .
a repeating , strident noise began intruding through the blinding light .
slowly i became aware my eyes were open .
i was looking at the sun , peeking through the shades of raymonde 's bedroom window .
i averted my burning eyes , annoyed by the racket next to my ears .
the phone was ringing .
it was captain languenoc .
our package had arrived and they were getting it ready .
it was time to go .
we were soon dressed and fed , anxious to get back to languenoc 's ship .
except for o'flanahan , perhaps .
to our surprise , we found a much better boat waiting , surrounded by a large crowd of new friends .
the mayor had been true to his word and all net members were keeping a watchful eye , making sure we were left in peace .
it was a much more stable and speedy trip out to the helen .
i was wearing my glasses again , recording for later analysis .
coulter and i had stayed quiet about what we had obtained and the others were understandably very curious .
upon arrival , captain languenoc led us to the other side of the platform , where a large , bright orange , oblong vehicle was floating in the water , tethered solidly to the pontoon .
gentlemen , allow me to present to you the argos , a sixteen passenger electric submarine , '' proudly intoned coulter .
it can go to a depth of one hundred metres , which is perfect for us .
the owners agreed to rent it for a few weeks for four hundred thousand dollars .
if we like it , we can consider that a down payment .
is n't she beautiful ?
and simple to drive , too .
you should see the controls . ''
it 's fully charged and ready to go , mr sirenne , '' informed captain languenoc .
with his help , we crossed the gangplank stretched between the helen and the argos .
i was the second to step onto the submarine deck , wobbling slowly in the calm waters .
i ascended the small ladder , stepped onto the conning tower and went down the open hatch .
inside , i was confronted by a spacious area , with two rows of seven seats .
there were two more seats at the front .
small viewing ports allowed each passenger to look at their underwater surroundings comfortably .
coulter ran to the front , seating himself in the pilot 's chair .
paul , come up here with me .
you can take the captain 's chair . ''
raymonde sat right behind me as i tried the luxurious captain 's chair .
a row of screens displayed views from all around the sub .
coulter was already pressing switches and toggles .
how do you know what to do ? ''
asked briar , looking over coulter 's shoulder .
i downloaded the manual last night and brushed up on the specifics .
i 've done tons of simulated submarine dives before , so i 'm already familiar with most of the controls .
i 'm closing the hatch now . ''
he pressed another button .
with a whirring noise , the hatch lifted up , locking with a solid clang .
my ears popped as the pressure increased and stabilised .
this baby is all automatic , so it 's easy to operate .
okay , everyone put your seat belts on .
we 're going down ! ''
a muted whine accompanied bubbles flowing up both sides of the argos and it slowly sank into the channel waters , moving forward at a brisk rate .
it 's so quiet , '' commented raymonde .
look , i can see fish . ''
we examined the marine life as we continued our descent .
i experienced apprehension when the gloom became darkness .
lights flashed on , dispelling my vague feelings .
there 's the bottom .
i 've got our position marked , let 's set our proper heading .
there .
now the argos knows where to go . ''
we reached the underwater canyon quickly .
coulter reduced speed , slowing the argos to a crawl and we headed into the side canyon .
the sub 's powerful lights exposed the strange optical illusion once more .
even though i knew it was illusion , it still remained completely convincing .
slowing further still , we approached what seemed like a solid rock wall .
i tensed as we inched closer , my hands gripping the arms of my chair tightly .
thank god , there 's the line .
i thought we were going to crash , '' exclaimed o'flanahan , breathing a sigh of relief .
the cleft had split in two , a dark line appearing where they joined .
the line grew wider , revealing the optical illusion for what it was .
halfway through , coulter slowed the argos to a complete stop , giving us a chance to examine the huge concave mirrors .
they were made of metal plates , polished to a perfect sheen .
requiring no energy , it was a brilliant camouflaging system .
simple and effective .
there 's calvin ! ''
shouted coulter , jabbing at a screen in excitement .
calvin , our lost remote camera , was lying on the seabed floor where it had landed after it lost our controlling signals .
i had captain languenoc attach a magnet to a winch under the sub , preparing for this exact possibility .
i think we can recover calvin .
bear with me for a few moments , '' he explained , his fingers flying over the controls .
the submarine inched forward imperceptibly .
the main screen switched to a camera below the submarine , illuminating the seabed floor .
calvin was almost directly below .
he was getting closer and closer to the centre of the screen , where red crosshairs had appeared .
the moment calvin lined up with the crosshairs , coulter pressed another button and a large magnet floated down , wavering from side to side as it descended .
its aim was true , landing solidly onto calvin 's back .
contact !
i 've got him , '' exclaimed coulter in glee .
enough of this time wasting , coulter .
it 's time to go down that tunnel , '' prodded o'flanahan .
i was just trying to get our deposit back , '' coulter shot back .
once the remote camera was nestled safely under the argos , he activated the propellers , starting us moving towards the exposed tunnel .
it headed under the cliff at a sharp angle .
nothing but a submarine could come here .
move forward slowly until we 've reached the end of the tunnel .
everyone keep your eyes peeled , '' i cautioned .
the argos slid forward , exiting the tunnel .
coulter brought the sub to a full stop .
we were in the bottom of a large rock bowl , shaped almost like a giant pipe .
the sides were close .
coulter filled the ballast tanks with compressed air and we began rising .
the walls vanished from view , forming a vast chamber .
the radar 's detected something floating above .
it 's almost as large as the argos , '' informed coulter .
can we surface beside it ? ''
i asked .
yes .
there 's plenty of room .
it 's like a small lake up there . ''
while we continued our ascent , the waters became clearer , as if light were coming from above , which should be impossible in a cave .
by now , it was easy to see the shape coulter had detected .
it was large and cigar shaped , appearing distinctly like another submarine .
its shape was compact , like ours , and covered in a reflective yellow metal .
its surface was pitted with the same indentations as those in the camouflaged entrance .
the argos broke the surface of the calm waters .
coulter turned off the submarine systems , opening the outside hatch .
the ambient , yellowish light was strong while seeming to have no direct source .
it reminded me of the light from my dreams .
we 're here !
time to disembark . ''
me first , '' o'flanahan said , running for the hatch and lumbering up out of sight .
soon , we were standing on the argos ' deck , looking around in awe .
we were in a massive chamber .
on the far left were huge stalagmites surrounded by a small natural landing .
on this side , a long dock led to a concrete stairway winding its way upwards .
the ancient submarine was moored to it .
look at that sub .
it 's all gold ! ''
whispered o'flanahan , his voice hushed .
it did indeed seem covered entirely in gold .
it was sleek and stylish , almost feral in its design .
embossed on the conning tower was the swastika symbol , putting to rest all of our questions about nazi involvement .
they had been here and they had left their flagship behind !
the dock was a massive structure stretching for a distance of at least thirty metres .
at its end , the concrete staircase climbed along the vaulted walls of the cavern .
far above , a large concrete structure overlooked the entire cavern .
two gun turrets jutted out , one on each side .
a deep silence filled the cave , broken only by the occasional drip of water and the lapping of small waves .
let 's take the gangplank and stretch it across between the two submarines .
after that , we should be able to get onto that dock , '' suggested jacques vallin .
once across , we located a metal ladder fastened to the dock .
climbing onto the dock , we looked around for a moment then went up the wide staircase .
it did n't take long to reach a dizzying height .
looking down , both submarines reminded me of toys , floating in the translucent water , light reflecting from everywhere , dancing designs over the walls .
we continued the climb , the irrepressible o'flanahan always several steps ahead .
he entered the guard room , after examining one of the gun turrets , its barrel aiming downward , untouched by human hands in decades .
there 's a way into the caves in here , guys . ''
inside the long , narrow room , o'flanahan waited by a door .
it certainly is quiet , '' said raymonde .
some systems are still active .
i can feel dry , fresh air coming from that doorway .
there are still more than sixty five metres of cliff above us .
fresh air could not possibly be filtering down here without help , '' coulter mentioned .
i opened the door , any trepidation easily overwhelmed by curiosity .
walking along a well lit corridor , still without any apparent light source , i saw several entrances .
we stopped briefly at the first two , rooms intended as barracks .
checking the second room , briar stopped suddenly , his eyes peering in the corner .
what 's that , over there , in the corner , by that bed frame ? ''
coulter walked over and checked the indistinct shape .
he recoiled in horror , his hand held over his mouth .
it 's a dead man ! ''
we rushed forward , more to see the body than in sympathy for coulter .
the years had softened the outline of the man , mummified by the dry air .
there 's another one over here . ''
o'flanahan had found it hidden behind a desk .
mummified , like the first .
how did they die ? ''
asked raymonde .
they do n't seem to have been wounded .
it 's like they just dropped where they were standing , '' observed briar .
bending down to look at the second body , he leaned on the wall for support .
he pulled his hand away in surprise , looking dumbfounded .
what is it ? ''
i asked .
the wall was darker where his hand had touched , leaving a slowly fading imprint .
his hand was now glowing faintly .
i touched the wall too , the first contact a surprise .
i could understand why briar had pulled his hand away .
the wall felt soft and alive , its surface leathery .
i had thought it was metal , painted a reflective white .
these walls are bioluminescent , '' exactly , my boy .
whoever built this knew what they were doing . ''
both of these men are curled up in a fetal position .
that 's why we did n't see them at first , '' exclaimed o'flanahan .
look at the hands .
they died clutching their throats .
their mouths are frozen open in a last gasping breath . ''
these poor men , '' observed raymonde .
poor nothing , miss leblanc , '' retorted o'flanahan .
look at those uniforms .
they were part of the ss .
these were very bad people .
i do n't pity them for one second . ''
still , something caused both of those men to drop right where they stood , '' commented briar .
i think these men were poisoned or suffocated . ''
ives vallin grew agitated .
his brother jumped in quickly do n't worry , brother .
everything happened long ago .
the danger has passed .
has n't it , mr paul ? ''
i 'm sure we 're fine .
it 's been over sixty years .
i do n't know of many poisons which could last that long .
still , we should be careful .
not everything is as it appears .
this is a more of a tomb than a fortress , '' i said , shuddering slightly .
let 's move on .
i do n't think we can find much more around here , '' raymonde suggested , eager to be out of the room .
we returned to the corridor and continued to its end , arriving at a metal door .
a screen in its top half area allowed fresh air to flow freely .
entering , we found ourselves in a large octagonal room , a central hub , with eight passages heading off into different areas .
rails were imbedded in the floor .
there was small turntable in the centre of the room from which a rail cart could have been sent in any direction .
plaques with symbols above each passageway indicated either their direction or purpose .
one of them was a lightning bolt .
that might be leading to a generating station . ''
raymonde pointed at another plaque could that one indicate another connecting hub , like this one ? ''
she asked .
it was a symbol , shaped vaguely like an octopus , with eight arms around it .
below it was an arrow aiming upward next to a staircase symbol .
yes , another hub , likely one above us , '' i agreed .
how big is this place ? ''
exclaimed o'flanahan .
we could get lost in here ! ''
realized briar .
we 'd better be careful . ''
do n't worry , we wo n't get lost , '' added coulter .
using an enhanced gps , i 've been logging our movements .
i know exactly where we are . ''
what does that plaque mean ? ''
asked o'flanahan , a certain tone in his voice .
he was getting excited about something .
it looks like rows of shelves , '' helped briar .
perhaps the corridor leads to storage areas . ''
let 's go there , '' urged o'flanahan .
i 'd much rather go up , '' i said .
i want to get to the entrance under the destroyed foundation of the fort of frefosse .
we might find more answers there . ''
fine .
you go up , i 'll go over there , '' o'flanahan replied .
why do n't we take a break here ?
we can use the time to figure out what to do , '' suggested raymonde .
sounds good to me , young lady .
i 'm quite thirsty .
despite all that water below , this fresh air is very dry , '' briar said .
opening her backpack , raymonde passed out sandwiches and coffee from a thermos .
wanting neither , i sat down on one of the metal benches lining the walls .
why do you want to see those shelves so much ? ''
asked coulter .
liam o'flanahan swallowed his mouthful with a noisy gulp .
wiping his lips with the back of his hand , he stood up and walked to a position where we could all look at him .
guys , you know i live on conspiracies .
it 's my bread and butter .
this adventure has been like heaven so far but that plaque has to take the cake .
if i 'm right , that passage will lead us to the answer of one of world war 2 's most unbelievable mystery . ''
our eyes were locked on o'flanahan .
he did have his moments .
throughout the second world war , the invading nazis stole countless heirlooms and invaluable pieces of art .
as many as one hundred thousand items were stolen .
the nazis had convoys bearing gold , silver , art , statues , and other valuables , streaming out of invaded countries and ferreted into underground hiding places .
eisenhower himself went to examine some of the bigger finds .
over the years , many paintings were recovered .
unfortunately , despite the best efforts of bereft families and other well intentioned researchers , over twenty thousand items remain unrecovered .
rumours abound of a 'lost museum ' , filled with the largest collection of stolen art in the world .
the caves of etretat would have been perfect as a hiding place .
it is likely hitler would have felt secure bringing the most valuable art to this stronghold .
you all remember the stories from bequilles and the vallin brothers , about the constant convoys of trucks .
so , just like you , i 've been putting two and two together .
i think we are standing at the entrance to that 'lost museum ' .
hidden below us might be thousands of art pieces , stolen from the nazis ' battered victims . ''
i 'd like to find out if he 's right , paul , '' raymonde said .
a similar glint of morbid curiosity was reflected in everyone 's eyes .
all right , o'flanahan , let 's go see your shelves . ''
we headed down a long sloping corridor , following the rails from the hub .
reaching the bottom , we found a tunnel lined with endless sliding doors , stretching almost as far as our eyes could see .
the first room we came to was filled to overflowing , heavily obstructed with crates .
squeezing between boxes , we made our way to a large shelf system .
every crate was emblazoned with swastikas .
my mind flashed back to my dream .
the shelving structure was massive .
there were four levels , reaching a height of five metres .
hinged glass panels covered individual sections .
opening the first glass panel with a grinding squeak , i exposed a tall , narrow shelf on which rested four large frames .
selecting one at random , i picked up a rembrandt , a landscape .
seeing a smaller panel , i lifted it gingerly .
another rembrandt .
this was indeed the 'lost museum ' , its aisles glutted with the spoils of war .
we had found a treasure but i wanted none of it .
i felt horror instead of in awe .
how many people had died to fill this room ?
our mood had turned sombre , the joviality of the moment completely gone .
let 's get out of here , '' o'flanahan said .
a selection from the weissmuller manuscript developing the caves it has taken several years to complete the cave complex .
the power plant , developed by captive scientists , is producing more energy than we will ever need .
the illuminating fungus has been trained to grow in all corridors , which are used to provide air for both men and this plant based light source .
a filtering system has been built to control dust and humidity .
the cave mapping has been completed , providing us with a layout comprising more than seven hundred distinct caves .
a rail system has been added which greatly facilitates the moving of the crates which arrive nightly .
over the years , i have lost more than fifty of my men through the efforts of the maquis but i am satisfied to have exacted a high price for their lives .
as well , i have been informed of maurice leblanc 's death .
i can only hope he learned of his son 's demise before his own end .
perhaps it even hastened his death .
he is now completely powerless against me .
as for lindon , he has vanished .
i can feel his influence , moving pawns all around , but never close enough to matter .
i know his puppet , vallin , entered the tunnels a few times .
he was much too late .
the important one has been blocked .
he can play in there all he wants .
he will find nothing .
while my men were the ones who constructed the complex , i was the only one who obtained a complete perspective of the scope of these caves .
i designed a three dimensional map which revealed certain oddities .
the caves were arrayed in a vast circle , layer upon layer of them , most connected by cracks or tunnels .
the central area was solid , filled with an amalgam of rubble , rather than bedrock .
we used this area to install our main air shaft and stair system .
near sea level , we encountered an underground river blocking our way into the lower cave system .
we also discovered the water of this river has bizarre curative properties which can not be explained by analysis .
it was used as a potable water source in the fortress , keeping my men in much better health than should have been expected .
the vast rubble filled shaft in the center of the complex had me baffled .
the caves ' creation could neither be explained by natural sedimentary process nor by erosion .
water had been involved , to be sure , but another force had been originally responsible for this intricately woven web of caves .
from prior research , the only answer possible was the destructive power of a meteorite .
when we dug an exploratory tunnel directly into this central area , we struck a massive object composed of magnetic iron and traces of iridium , about one hundred meters below the cliff surface , confirming the meteorite hypothesis .
it had been subjected to high levels of heat , melting its surface perfectly smooth .
it was a gigantic elongated conical meteorite , driven deep into the cliff .
the meteorite was too hard to mine and we had no need of unprocessed iron , so , after a few tests , we left it alone .
the tests confirmed it had indeed originated from outer space and its magnetic field had likely been created during its superheated travel through earth 's atmosphere .
the time is nearing when hitler will arrive to take control of the fortress .
his double is ready and travel arrangements are being prepared .
hitler has learnt much since i first met him .
our goals were almost one for a while .
however , i have found him strangely distant during his last visits .
he has issued orders to eliminate my men since they know too much about the caves .
i had expected those orders , since i also agree with that decision , but i worry about hitler 's increasing megalomania .
dare i trust his motivations ?
he believes the caves are his destiny .
what role shall i play , now that his plans have reached fruition ?
i too have become fascinated by the caves .
we found evidence of roman occupation and of their extermination .
we found countless caches of gold and jewels , hidden in various locations in the caves .
several of these caches had been pilfered , probably by leblanc and his cohorts .
the gold hitler had stolen from the caves had come from one such cache .
that did not stop me from reserving several caches for myself .
hitler could have his art and his paintings but i would have my experiments , my purpose , and the gold from the caves .
i have left the massive throne room almost completely intact for hitler .
behind the giant tapestries , i found ancient burial niches , filled with neanderthal skeletons .
it impressed hitler to no end as i had known it would .
this throne room would be a fitting , parting gift , from me to him .
in retrospect , i believe meeting hitler has had a beneficial impact on my life , providing many lessons .
i have also recognized the caves still have much to teach me and i do not wish to relinquish my control .
despite hitler 's achievements and our previous arrangement , i believe he is a weak man , no longer able to make the proper decisions , to proceed in the right direction .
i do not have this weakness .
i see things far more clearly than he , unhampered by bothersome emotions .
i had long thought this a flaw but my experiments have proven this lack to be my strength .
it allows me to see into the center of everything .
i am free of the rules and the puppet strings which bind all others .
therefore , i am no longer hitler 's lieutenant .
he is mine !
i will allow him his final illusion .
i will remain in the shadows , the place where i truly belong .
from there , i can do whatever i desire , control whomever i choose .
i will even kill my men as he requests .
however , if treachery is on hitler 's mind , he will not find me easy prey and retribution will not be far behind !
chapter 17 final answers having returned to the central hub , we headed for the stairs to the level above .
they were a circular affair , going around a large open shaft .
at the next level , a passageway headed off to another hub in the distance but the staircase kept going .
it seems we have found a way to the top , my boy , '' stated briar .
we continued our ascension , reaching a new level with every turn around the staircase .
at the top of the staircase was a grand circular cave .
the rails were also present , indicating the open shaft was once used to lower material to the various levels below .
two larger than life paintings of adolf hitler hung on the far wall , a large doorway between them .
guys , hold up for a second , '' wheezed o'flanahan , huffing and puffing , still half a level below .
everyone gathered round the top of the staircase , waiting for him .
o'flanahan finished his climb , leaning on the staircase railing for support .
should we take a break for you , o'flanahan ? ''
asked briar .
o'flanahan 's face scrunched up in annoyance .
no , i do n't need a break , thank you very much .
i 'm fit as a fiddle .
i just would n't mind a drink is all .
i ca n't reach it in my packsack by myself , '' he blustered .
there 's no way i want to stop now anyway .
we 've worked this hard to get here and i do n't see why we should stop ten metres from our goal . ''
coulter handed him a bottle of water as we approached the overlarge and pretentious doorway , leading to a high , sloping hallway .
the roof overhead was dark bedrock with a faint line in the centre .
i think we are in the original hallway of the caves .
that crack in the ceiling reminds me of leblanc 's description . ''
i reflected aloud .
the corridor grew wider , giving way to a large natural cave .
on my right was a tunnel leading to an empty chamber .
further on , i noticed the ruins of a primitive locking mechanism over an irregularly shaped opening .
we must be near the bunker where the fort used to be , '' noted raymonde .
the gps says we 're almost under it , '' informed coulter .
passing through the ancient entrance , we came to a solid concrete plug .
they 've blocked it .
they unloaded all the stolen treasure and the supplies needed to build this place , then sealed the access with fresh cement .
after that , coming in here would be by submarine only , '' concluded o'flanahan .
retracing our steps led to another hallway on our right .
i was reminded of leblanc , when he entered this place for the first time , almost one hundred years ago .
i thought of the small chamber , where the treacherous hitler had assaulted him .
checking carefully along the left side , i saw the narrow cleft , exactly as described .
stopping the group , i squeezed into the dark crevice , the others following me in .
my eyes froze on a dark stain on the ground , still visible through the thick layer of dust .
that 's a lot of blood .
no wonder hitler thought leblanc was dead , '' remarked coulter .
briar found the exposed crack in the wall where leblanc had discovered the small sack of gold coins .
remnants of plaster , used to camouflage the crack , were still visible .
who could have hidden that gold here and why ?
our questions unanswered , we returned to the hallway .
leblanc described a large chamber , covered in ancient tapestries , close to here .
let 's go find that , '' i suggested .
what are you looking for , my boy ? ''
asked briar .
i have not forgotten what leblanc said in his journal .
he devoted all his efforts to create a trap for hitler .
it must be somewhere in this place .
everything we have seen so far suggests to me his trap was successful .
for example , why is that fancy gold submarine still here ?
the bunker entrance was filled with concrete and the tunnels under etretat were sealed by an explosion .
so , how did the nazis leave this place , if they left their submarine behind ?
remember those two dead guards , poisoned or suffocated .
leblanc mentioned the room with the tapestries only once but his words gave me the feeling he thought it important .
his trap must have been designed to not be seen as one .
it would be something irresistible for hitler , prepared specifically for him .
i think we will find our answer in that room . ''
well , what are we waiting for then ?
let 's go find it , '' exclaimed o'flanahan .
although work had been done to shore up weakened cavern walls , this area had been left essentially untouched .
jacques vallin pointed at an arched entrance to our left .
i saw the first body since the two guards , lying near the opening .
ives vallin found two more .
they were clutching their throats , poisoned like the others .
i followed raymonde 's gaze , deep into the room .
i was overwhelmed by the splendour .
the cave had been prepared as a king 's chamber .
rich tapestries hung on all the walls , woven in gold or silver thread , displaying hunting scenes and heroic battles .
suits of armour stood at regular intervals against the wall .
two ornate chandeliers hung from the ceiling .
the brilliance of the lower crystals attracted my attention .
i identified diamonds , rubies , emeralds , opals , and other precious stones .
each chandelier held more than three hundred precious stones .
a veritable fortune was suspended above our heads .
a large stone platform , a metre in height , stood near the furthest wall , a gilded throne in its centre .
our voices hushed , we approached it .
bodies were lying all around , mummified where they had fallen .
from their positions , it seemed they had been assembled around the throne .
there 's something lying by the side of the throne , '' exclaimed o'flanahan , climbing up the short staircase .
another body lay curled up beside the throne .
it had been hidden by the throne 's position .
curiously , one of the man 's hands remained extended , instead of clutching at his throat .
what 's he reaching for ? ''
asked o'flanahan .
walking around the throne , i saw an open panel , revealing a hidden cavity below the throne seat .
still held by the dead man 's mummified fingers , was the most incredible crown i had ever seen .
covered in jewels , exquisitely carved out of pure gold , it was opulent beyond belief .
look at his face .
look at the dead man 's face , '' stuttered raymonde .
there , on the dead man 's upper lip , were the remains of a tiny moustache .
my eyes swept upwards , seeing the sharp lock of hair going down at an angle .
it was adolf hitler !
this was the secret hidden for so long .
hitler had fooled everyone .
his goal had always been to return to these caves , to build an invisible fortress from which he could carry on his insane plans .
he trained a double and then , at the peak of his power , went on a secret trip to etretat , intent on grasping what he sought all those years .
instead , he disappeared , never to return .
his double , maximillian bauer , was forced to step into his shoes permanently .
from that point on , the war effort was doomed .
the nazi machine was headless their true leader vanished .
leblanc was the only one who understood hitler 's master plan .
he had anticipated his moves , like an expert chess master , and placed his trap exactly where he knew hitler would end up inside the caves of etretat !
he had designed the perfect bait , appealing directly to hitler 's feelings of megalomania .
the piece of cheese he used was ideal the most fabulous crown you could imagine .
hitler would have been drawn to it , like a moth to a flame .
the moment he touched that crown , it would have been too late .
stop that , what do you think you are doing ? ''
coulter exploded at o'flanahan , who was reaching for the crown .
do n't worry , coulter .
whatever poison came out of that trap is long gone . ''
well , i would n't like to find out you were wrong .
i 'd wait , if i were you , at least until we 've examined it a bit more . ''
a glint of caution entered o'flanahan 's eyes and he carefully inched his hand away from the trigger , seeing it for what it really was .
a tempting worm , dangling on a very dangerous hook .
so my great grandfather succeeded in his goal .
he really killed hitler , '' said raymonde .
yes , he actually did it .
this entire room was designed with one purpose in mind , to entice hitler to sit on that throne .
once there , he would have eventually figured out there was a hidden mechanism on the chair .
it would have been somewhat complex .
nothing straightforward , i 'm sure .
he would have found that irresistible , bejewelled crown , '' i explained .
but what killed them ? ''
asked ives vallin .
coulter , who was examining the throne , asked if he could borrow my techno glasses .
he returned to his kneeling position , checking the throne 's entire base with the glasses in zoom mode .
it looks like the plate below the crown is separate from the base of the throne .
it could be a pressure switch of some sort .
any movement of the crown would have triggered it . ''
a pressure switch ?
what for ? ''
asked briar , joining in .
i do n't know yet , '' coulter replied .
might i see those glasses for a moment ? ''
asked briar .
here you go . ''
i 'm turning them to infrared mode .
i can use it to detect hollows or cracks . ''
briar walked along the raised platform .
as i suspected , there is a hollow chamber beneath this raised area .
the infrared is showing a large hollow rectangle .
the space measures about ten metres by seven metres square and is at least one metre deep .
leblanc must have built this huge platform , expertly camouflaged to look like a natural piece of the bedrock , using the space created to hide his poison chamber and his trap mechanism . ''
that 's seventy cubic metres !
how much poison did they need ? ''
said o'flanahan .
i 'm sure with more investigation we will find vents hidden around this room , perhaps behind the tapestries .
the poison would have been released in enormous quantities .
it does seem like overkill , '' observed briar .
not if he intended to kill any nazis coming to take over the abandoned fortress , '' i added .
he released so much poison it would take years to dissipate .
any subsequent invader would be poisoned upon arrival .
that may be why we had to wait so long before our return.
makes sense , '' agreed raymonde .
my great grandfather could not take any chances .
he turned the caves into a deathtrap , effectively closing them down . ''
we should think of getting back , '' i suggested .
we can return tomorrow and begin a more thorough investigation .
there are many questions left unanswered .
one thing is certain however .
we have finally succeeded in solving the great hunt .
we now know what they wanted us to discover maurice leblanc stopped adolf hitler , and the nazi regime with him .
upon returning to the original hub , coulter remarked i still ca n't believe how fresh the air is . ''
you 're right .
it is surprising the machinery still works , '' replied briar .
and that there 's still power to run it .
i 've been wondering what type of power plant could keep working after all these years , '' coulter returned .
sounds to me like you 're asking to visit the generator room , '' observed o'flanahan .
yes , i guess i am .
we 're so close .
i 'm sure that plaque over the corridor , the one with the lightning bolt , goes directly there .
it would only take a few moments . ''
the excitement was still running high , despite the long day and everyone agreed to visit the generators .
the tunnel led to a monstrous cavern with ten huge boxes in the middle .
what are those ?
where are the generators ? ''
asked jacques vallin , looking around in consternation .
i do n't know .
i 'm not sure .
let 's get closer , '' coulter muttered .
technology 's got his tongue , '' sniggered o'flanahan .
coulter approached the dull gray metallic cubes .
they towered above us , each measuring five meters to a side .
two massive copper bars emerged from each cube and connected to thick cables .
these joined together , snaking around the cubes .
coulter noticed a long control panel .
that meter .
i think it measures voltage coming out of that box there .
look at the numbers .
each is putting out twenty four volts at , uhm , '' he stopped , his eyes settling on a row of smaller meters .
four thousand amperes .
that ca n't be right , '' he came back to the panel .
no , it 's four thousand amperes all right . ''
coulter stood back in awe .
good gosh , this system is generating almost a million watts . ''
how is it doing that ? ''
asked briar .
i 'm working on it .
give me another minute . ''
coulter put his hand on the nearest cube .
it 's warm .
hey , does anyone have a knife ? ''
jacques vallin , slid a sharp knife out from a leg holster and passed it , handle first , to coulter .
coulter used the tip and scraped a gouge in the surface of the cube .
ah ha !
i thought so , '' he exclaimed , scraping the cube again , this time removing a small amount of metal .
holding it between two fingers and bending it easily , he smiled in satisfaction .
it 's lead .
i know what this thing is , although i do n't believe it .
i think it 's a nuclear battery ! ''
a nuclear battery ?
you 've got to be kidding , '' snapped o'flanahan in disdain .
those are hoaxes . ''
actually no , not all of them are .
the military has developed some working prototypes .
they 're not very efficient but they do work , '' briar remarked looking at this system , they seem to work for a very long time ! ''
if they are not efficient , how can they be generating all that power ? ''
asked raymonde , still mystified .
i think it 's a question of scale , '' coulter answered .
inside that thick lead box , lies a very large quantity of uranium 238 .
it emits alpha and beta particles which can be harnessed to generate heat .
hundreds of thousands of thermocouples are used to create electricity from the heat .
it is designed as a closed system and will last as long as the radioactive material continues emitting its particles . ''
it 's surprising you can figure that out so quickly , my boy .
i am convinced you are right .
a brilliant analysis , '' briar added , with an admiring look in his eyes .
what is that noise i hear in the background , that loud hum ? ''
well it 's not coming from the nuclear batteries .
they are completely silent .
perhaps there is some machinery nearby , '' coulter replied .
it sounds like it 's louder over there , '' mentioned ives vallin , pointing at a doorway .
let 's go check , '' briar decided , heading off in that direction without waiting .
we ran to catch up , joining him as he arrived at the door , a plaque above it showing a rotating blade of some sort .
could be the fan room , '' suggested o'flanahan .
opening the door , briar walked along the wide tunnel .
the sound was deafening .
we passed a side door , barely giving it a glance .
entering the last room , we found three massive fans in a tall shaft , surrounded by an access platform .
a nearby wall was covered with electrical panels , with thick cables connecting to the large fan motors .
one of the fans had broken down but the other two were still powerful enough to move a huge volume of air .
it pulled the air from somewhere below and pushed it up a shaft to the uppermost level .
from there , gravity would cause a trickling down of fresh air in the entire cavern system .
simple and clever .
it was apparent they spared no expense here .
the place was built to last .
the noise of the fans was overwhelming and we beat a hasty retreat to the corridor .
retracing our footsteps , briar stopped at the side door we had previously ignored .
i wonder what 's in here . ''
opening the door , he stood still for a moment then moved slowly backwards .
there 's another body in there , '' he said in a monotone .
o'flanahan rushed forward .
his hands are n't at his throat .
he 's mummified , though .
hey , look at that , '' he pointed at a small round hole in the man 's jacket .
he was shot in the back , whoever he was , '' o'flanahan turned the mummified body over .
he looks familiar somehow .
i know , he reminds me of you , briar . ''
briar peered closer at the man 's face .
his features are similar , now that you mention it , but this is a mummified corpse .
i doubt he would have looked the same while alive . ''
one thing for sure he had way more hair than you , pal . ''
briar was about to retort but paused , noticing a bulge in the man 's dried out leather coat .
what 's that ? ''
o'flanahan pulled open the cracked leather flaps of the coat .
it 's a book or something .
let me pull it out . ''
working at the dried leather slowly , o'flanahan removed the old book .
he opened it to the first page .
looks like a manuscript of some sort .
it 's written in german .
nice handwriting .
very neat , '' o'flanahan randomly flipped to the middle , then to the end .
i do n't believe it .
guys , this book was signed by weissmuller .
this is his manuscript . ''
who had killed him ?
what was he doing here ?
more questions without answers .
one deduction was easily made , based on the way he had died .
he had been killed before the poison was released in the caves .
raymonde , noticing another door beyond weissmuller 's body , exclaimed that door has no screen and has a lock .
why would that be ? ''
the door was tightly sealed and none of us could open it without the key .
the quick witted jacques vallin had an idea .
he returned to weissmuller 's body and searched his clothes .
the result of his search was a luger and two keys on a ring !
this luger 's been fired .
twice , i think .
it 's missing two bullets in its clip , '' jacques asserted .
here , mr .
paul . ''
i caught the keys in mid air and tried one in the lock .
no good .
the other fit perfectly .
the lock was seized with age but gave way under the pressure i exerted .
the deadbolt released with a clunk .
i pulled the door open slowly , not knowing what to expect .
a ghastly odor was released .
fresh air entered the room , activating dormant lichen on the walls .
the increasing light revealed a horrifying sight , literally from dante 's hell the room was filled with corpses , piled one upon another .
decomposition stains covered what floor we could see .
the sealed room had prevented these bodies from mummifying .
they had rotted instead .
there were hundreds of dead bodies here .
could these be weissmuller 's men ? ''
questioned o'flanahan .
seeing our questioning looks , he explained sorry guys but i always think in terms of conspiracy .
if this place was mine , i might be led to kill anyone who might have loose lips and reveal my big secret .
for proof , look at those , '' he added , showing two machine guns visible through tears in rotting tarps .
he hid machine guns under those tarps , called the men in , and the shooting began , like fish in a barrel .
the carnage over , weissmuller shot the last two men , the executioners . ''
who shot weissmuller , if all his men were dead ? ''
asked raymonde .
adolf hitler killed him ! ''
i said .
it was the only answer which made sense .
the single loose end , after the death of weissmuller 's men , would have been weissmuller himself , a man privy to all of hitler 's deepest secrets .
hitler would have shot weissmuller in the back , completing his own decades long plan .
a fitting end to weissmuller , betrayed by a man who had betrayed everyone .
we closed the door silently , heading back without a word .
returning to the argos , i reflected on the caves .
so many dead .
the allure of finding riches here , our original goal , had been completely muted by the reality of what lay hidden here .
the legacy my father had left had nothing wonderful about it .
it was not about treasure .
a burden had been placed on my shoulders , one i did not know if i wanted .
like it or not , the caves of etretat were now in my hands .
i made a silent vow to all those who had prepared the path .
i would discover what mysteries lay hidden in the depths of the caves .
i would hold true to their lofty ideals and adopt them as mine .
with my loyal friends at my side , with raymonde as my partner and an entire town ready to do my bidding , it was now up to me to begin the real task , the real challenge .
i remembered , one more time , the coded words from my father 'you ought understand responsibility , necessarily after moiling etretat ' i would assume that responsibility and i would never let go , not until i solved the mystery of the caves of etretat !
i entered the private room , stopping at the hospital bed , where bequilles lay dying .
upon our return from the caves , we were informed bequilles had been found on his kitchen floor , stricken by a massive coronary .
the doctor had told me he could go any time .
bequilles ' eyes fluttered open , still clear .
a faint smile graced his lips .
sirenne . ''
yes , bequilles , it 's me .
the doctor told me you did n't have much time left . ''
s'okay .
time for me to go , '' he whispered .
i brought you a parting gift , if that 's okay ? ''
i said .
a gift ?
now ? ''
yes , a gift .
have you ever seen these ? ''
your glasses ? ''
that 's right .
these glasses are special .
here , let me show you . ''
i slipped them onto his nose before he could object .
coulter was waiting online , raymonde next to him .
with tears in her eyes , she explained with this was all about hello bequilles .
paul told me you do n't have long .
we thought you might enjoy watching a home made movie .
before we start it though , i want to say thank you for all your help .
we could never have done this without you . ''
raymonde surreptitiously wiped a tear from her cheek as she motioned to coulter .
bequilles was suddenly inside our submarine , when we prepared to enter the caves for the first time .
the big secret he had protected all these years was now revealed .
he watched silently , his breath wheezing in and out laboriously .
halfway through the video , his heart had a serious jump and began failing .
the doctor came in but could do no more .
bequilles ' held on to every precious second , until , finally , the face of a dead adolf hitler was revealed on the video .
bequilles broke into a big smile .
it was worth it after all .
my life was not wasted .
there was a real secret ! ''
yes , bequilles , it was real and you kept it . ''
my words were wasted .
bequilles could hear no more .
addendum a note about o'flanahan liam o'flanahan would not allow me to publish this book without including this next section .
despite our many arguments about the subject , o'flanahan has displayed a single minded tenaciousness , coming back to this issue repeatedly .
no matter whether he is correct or not , in this instance , i have no better theory to offer .
paul sirenne a king 's displeasure , by liam o'flanahan all right , he 's been standing out there for three hours .
that should be enough .
we want everybody out except for you , bude .
do n't give us that look , you know exactly what part you played in this and so do we . ''
king francis the first motioned for his grand chamberlain to empty the throne room of all the courtiers and attendants .
a muted , polite expression of protest wafted up from the closest courtiers but francis was firm .
his chamberlain had been instructed .
these were exceedingly private matters and none were to be within hearing distance , except for those concerned .
jacques cartier was ushered in , the grand chamberlain closing the massive doors behind him .
far away , at the end of the large room , cartier could see the king , sitting impassively on the throne .
he wiped his cold , sweaty palms on his pants and started the long walk to the throne .
a few voices had spoken in his ear people had been asking questions .
last week , two of his men had gone drinking and never returned .
seeing bude , standing nervously next to the king , did nothing to assuage cartier 's growing concerns .
what if the king knew everything ?
he was about to find out .
he had run out of red carpet and out of time .
he took his place , well below the raised throne , looking up at his stern faced king , with what he hoped was an innocent face .
jacques cartier , we have summoned you this day , because you have incurred our displeasure . ''
the king paused heavily , the silence laced with accusations .
my king , what could your lowly servant have done ? ''
do n't you play that fawning game with us .
you know very well what you have done . ''
perhaps , your highness would be willing to provide his servant with the barest of indications as to how one might have acted wrongly ? ''
let us discuss your trip to the new world .
perhaps that might jar your failing memories . ''
cartier 's face fell .
the game was up .
the king knew .
but how much ?
cartier had to be brazen .
he would not admit anything willingly .
my trip , your majesty ?
it went perfectly .
i 'm not sure ... '' so you said in your report .
we were quite pleased at the time .
however , we were not so pleased when a rumor came to our ears .
rumors of a part of the trip not reported ?
to an island ?
what do you have to say about that ?
speak , instead of standing there with your mouth gaping like a fish . ''
the anger in the king 's voice shot a blast of fear through cartier 's veins .
certainly , your majesty , your servant did go to several islands he did not report .
most were too small to mention . ''
we thought you might have difficulty remembering .
that is why we asked our royal investigators to question some of the sailors who accompanied you on this voyage we funded . ''
the king knew had to know more than he was saying .
he was just leading cartier on , letting him hang himself .
thinking fast , cartier decided to admit to something , anything , to steer the story away from the most damning facts .
your servant does remember a particular island , now that your highness mentions it .
we rested there for a short while . ''
about two full months , from what we have heard .
a large gap in your report , would n't you say ?
and what led you there ? ''
uhm , uh , we , uhm , we were led there by a ship . ''
what type of ship ?
from what country , tell us that ? ''
we , uhm , we followed an english ship , your majesty , but , but it was a pirate ship .
they had lost all morals . ''
silence . ''
cartier stopped blubbering .
he had lost control for a moment .
luckily , the king 's outburst had given cartier time to calm down .
he kept his eyes low , not trusting himself to look up .
now go on and tell us what this english ship was doing to make you follow it and exactly why you felt it was not necessary to include it in your supposedly comprehensive report . ''
feeling like his entire head was in a vise he was being forced to tighten himself , cartier explained his actions , his shifty eyes locked on the ground , trying to unload the blame wherever possible .
your servant 's intentions were always honorable , your majesty .
the english ship was sighted in the distance , behaving , uhm , oddly .
further out , barely visible on the horizon , our man in the turret could see smoke , which could only mean a sinking , destroyed ship , implying piracy , your majesty !
we followed the ship from a distance , to find out what they were doing .
they landed at an island , where they moored in a small bay .
they had obviously been there before , your highness .
we watched as they unloaded several big caskets and brought them to a tree , after complicated measurements from stones on the island .
once at the tree , they dug down a few feet , removing thick oak planks and exposing a hidden shaft leading deep into the ground .
they lowered their caskets down the shaft , using a block and tackle .
after they were done , they covered the shaft again , hid all evidence of their presence and left . ''
it seems as if your memory has recovered from its sudden bout of amnesia .
we wonder how much of what you are telling us now is really true ?
this line of inquiry had to be stopped , before all was revealed .
your highness , please permit your servant to finish explaining .
your majesty will see we acted properly all along . ''
humphfff , this should be interesting to hear .
very well , you have our permission to finish . ''
we moored our ship and disembarked .
our scouts found where the block and tackle had been hidden .
using it , my men exposed the shaft and went to the bottom , over thirty meters below the island 's surface .
once there , the men found many caskets , which were brought back to the surface , the excitement of the crew turning rapidly into greed .
when they opened the caskets , we , uhm , they found only , uhm , cloth , beads , mirrors and , and tin knives .
this angered the men , who had been hoping for something more valuable .
i had little choice but to allow them to vent their anger , if only to prevent a mutiny , your majesty . ''
enough of this prattle .
what did you do then , pray tell ? ''
my men believed these english pirates would be , uhm , dangerous on the high seas , where perhaps , we ourselves might come under attack by the immoral heathens , so they decided to lay a trap for them . ''
your men designed a trap ?
what type of trap ? ''
they dug a few small shafts , to allow some seawater to flood the lower chamber where the barrels were found .
if the , uhm , the english ever returned , they would learn their lesson . ''
why did you not feel it worth mentioning all this in your report ? ''
your majesty , i did not feel good allowing my men to lay such a trap , warranted though it may have been .
my actions were not above some small amount of reproach .
as well , no real harm had been done .
if the english never conducted an act of piracy on the open seas again , then , they would suffer no harm .
justice would only come to the wicked . ''
in other words , you are almost blameless .
apart from a minor straying , you acted properly all along . ''
this is what i have been saying , your majesty .
your servant has always tried to do the best thing for france . ''
there , that did n't go so badly , cartier thought .
it almost sounded believable .
well , your words have satisfied us .
there is only one other matter , cartier and then , you may go . ''
cartier 's heart soared with elation .
he had done it .
one more question and he was free of this .
he felt brave enough to look up at his king , keeping his eyes as straight and clear as was possible .
your servant lives but to answer . ''
perfect .
then you will have no problem in telling us about the gold ! ''
cartier 's entire body froze .
the g gold , your highness ?
what g gold ? ''
stop that stuttering .
yes the gold .
gold like this . ''
francis the first threw several coins at cartier 's feet .
cartier recognized them instantly .
he had told his men not to spend their portions until he gave permission .
obviously , not all had listened .
cartier kept his eyes on the ground , knowing the king was spearing him with his gaze , demanding an answer .
how would he get out of this ?
your servant now remembers a few of the caskets , caskets we had not opened until much later did , in fact , have a few pieces of gold in them .
i did not think it worthy of mention . ''
we noticed that fact .
it seems your first trip to the new world has been a disappointment all around .
we sent you there to find diamonds , gold and other riches .
all you brought back to us was two indians , kidnapped indians no less , and some few bales of moldy fur .
imagine our surprise , when we learn our trusted captain omitted to mention he had stolen caskets filled with gold . ''
hardly filled , your majesty . ''
be quiet and stop your lies .
we will have your tongue cut out if we hear one more lie .
do you understand ? ''
cartier fell to the floor , prostrating himself in supplication , keeping his tongue deep within his tightly shut mouth .
so you followed an english ship to an island , lay in wait while they hid their gold , then stole it from them and lay a trap to drown them if they ever returned .
did we state what happened correctly ? ''
yes , your majesty , perfectly correctly . ''
excellent .
now tell us what have you been doing since you returned ? ''
hardly anything , your majesty .
i have been exhausted from the trip to the new world and have spent my time resting . ''
did you perhaps go for a vacation or two during that resting time ? ''
yes sire .
the beauty of france always bring such joy to your servant 's eyes . ''
yes , well , did you feel any of that joy while visiting our fort ? ''
your fort , your highness ? ''
yes , our fort .
you know very well which fort i speak of the fort of frefosse .
the one we have been repairing . ''
i did not know it was yours , your majesty .
it is a lovely fort .
i do remember it slightly .
i may have passed by it , once or twice . ''
the king made a face , upon hearing this last evasion .
getting tired of cartier 's constant slithering shiftiness , francis took a different tact .
imagine our surprise when our royal investigators informed me of a link between you and the college de france 's administrator , guillaume bude .
perhaps you remember meeting him in passing as well ?
when we asked him to explain this connection , can you imagine what he might have told us ? ''
the reason for bude 's presence was finally being revealed .
the weak willed fool had probably admitted everything he knew , eager to maintain his present post .
still cartier refused to give up .
your majesty is clearly all knowing .
how could a lowly servant such as i pretend to know what your highness knows . ''
he was good , francis had to admit but his admiration was easily dampened by the anger he felt at having been duped .
we learned you have been made aware of what lies beyond frefosse 's dungeon , thanks to bude 's loose lips .
we have also learned you entered in the fort , having been seen at least twice , carrying heavy sacks and coming back out without them .
also , our neighbor , england , is extremely upset at the disappearance of several of their vessels under suspicious circumstances .
we believe you have hidden the gold you stole in the caves beneath the dungeon . ''
your majesty , i must admit i did hide some gold in those caves , to keep it safe from my thieving men , but it is hardly anything worth making such a fuss about .
i never thought it would cause such trouble .
however , sire , i have carefully written the way into the caves and put it in a safe place . ''
we are amazed at how you constantly change the events to suit you .
do you dare imply a threat on our royal person ?
no , never your majesty .
your servant reveres your royal person .
it is simply a precaution , in case anyone should do me harm .
these are uncertain times , your highness . ''
cartier 's veiled words made the king pause .
knowledge of the caves had to be kept quiet at all cost .
too many skeletons buried in there .
francis understood the situation had changed .
until he was assured the caves were safe , he could do cartier no real harm .
frustrated but used to these cat and mouse games , he changed approach immediately .
we want that gold returned in our hands . ''
your majesty , your servant lives but to obey .
i would be happy to return to the caves and ... '' oh no .
you will never set foot in those caves again .
we do not trust you .
unfortunately , we still have need of you , as you are our most knowledgeable man , when it comes to the new world .
you can draw a map to your hidden gold .
then you will make immediate preparations to leave france .
until then , you will be accompanied by heavy guard , no matter where you should go .
we are banishing you to the new world , for the time being .
we shall require you to return there and remove this trap of yours .
you are to avoid any contact with the english from now on , and the spanish for that matter .
you will return the two kidnapped indian sons to their father you will look for , and return with , real gold and real diamonds for the glory of france , and you will never speak of this to anyone ever again .
do you understand ? ''
yes your majesty .
thank you for your overwhelming mercy , your majesty .
i will be forever in your debt and will carry out your every bidding from this moment forward .
as long as i remain under your protection , the caves will remain our secret !
shut up you worm .
we have heard enough of your sniveling .
remove yourself at once from our royal presence . ''
cartier beat a hasty retreat , almost tripping over his feet in his anxiousness to leave the throne room .
he could n't believe he had come out of there with his head still attached .
thank god he had taken a few precautions .
in fact , it had n't turned out too bad .
the king had n't even asked about the jewels !
he would draw a confusing map for the king and then head back to the new world and kill those english cowards .
when he came back , he would sneak into the caves , get his gold and disappear .
it should be a piece of cake .
back in the throne room , the king was fuming .
who does he think he is ?
trying to blackmail us indeed !
and you , bude !
how could you have helped that odious man ? ''
sire , certainly you just heard him speak .
his gilded tongue is adept at ferreting out support in the unlikeliest of ways .
one seems to remember your majesty selected him over many others , to go to the new world . ''
watch what you say , bude .
you may be the college de france 's administrator but we do n't need your tongue to have you present your written reports .
you would do well to remember that . ''
bude gulped heavily , mentally kicking himself for that comment , but it had been irresistible .
the king had been asking for it .
francis continued in his rant .
as for that upstart , we shall teach him to hide his gold in our caves .
i want you to instruct our royal engineer to begin drawing up plans to close off access to the dungeon . ''
your majesty , the restoration of the fort has only recently been completed ! ''
be quiet .
you will do as we request .
ensure the hallway leading to the dungeon is permanently sealed and plans prepared to build a secret access to it in our private chambers .
cartier will never find his way back into those caves .
now get out of here .
we do n't want to see you for at least a month . ''
bude ran out of the throne room almost as fast as cartier had , moments before him , glad the king had not uncovered exactly why he had helped cartier .
he would have to melt those gold coins down .
he hurried out , intent on carrying out that task without delay .
the end ... for now .
follow the continuation of paul sirenne 's adventures in the second book of the sirenne saga 'the four books of etretat ' an interview with the author q why did you write 'the caves of etretat ' ?
a i always loved maurice leblanc 's books .
i wanted to write an ode to him and his character , arsene lupin .
i also loved historical mysteries .
for my first novel , i naturally followed my love of both .
it was an instinctive effort , without any outline .
i simply wrote what i thought of that day .
q when did it become a series ?
a about a third into the book , i started doing research , to add accurate historical elements to the story .
i found books about etretat and about leblanc .
some of them convincingly connected leblanc to other historical mysteries .
what i found called back memories of a previously attempted book , titled 'the greyman ' .
it dawned on me i might be able to connect the two books with a bridging book which would transition between the two admittedly different stories .
after more research i decided two bridging books were necessary , and the four book series was born , in concept at least .
just about every bit of info you come across in the series is real , or based on existing facts .
i can not emphasize this point enough .
what i wrote may seem like fiction but most of it is real .
i finished 'the caves of etretat ' after two and a half years .
q what happened then ?
a it took me one year to write book two .
it also required i do two significant revisions of the caves of etretat .
i reduced it to 120,000 words from 150,000 , added 14,000 more words of story and reduced it down another 25,000 words , ending at 109,000 .
over the six years of the project , book one received 15 edits .
my last edit , for the previous release , reduced the book another 15,000 words to bring it to 93,000 .
q why did it receive so many revisions ?
a every time i wrote another book , i had to adjust the first book to fit .
it became a somewhat complex and time taking task .
simple changes had to be carried across four books and considered against the long story ark to ensure nothing conflicted .
i was also learning more about story outlines and character development , none of which existed in book one .
it did n't even have a real antagonist .
re writing was a necessary evil .
i had set rather specific goals for the series and , as a result , i was always pushed to the edge of my writing abilities .
book four was the hardest , though it only took six months to write .
to answer all the questions i had raised required all my skills .
q what was the result ?
a because of the way the series was developed , it ended up different from most other series .
each book can be seen as a layer , revealing what was hidden in the previous book .
the result is the first book has four layers buried within it .
though it reads like a rather straightforward story , it is nothing of the sort .
nothing which happens in the caves of etretat is the real story .
everything you read or assumed is not what you think .
yet , buried beneath its innocent appearance , all layers are there , waiting to be revealed by the rest of the series .
book four ends at the beginning of book one , allowing the caves of etretat to become book five , revealing yet another layer .
q can you hint at what we should expect in the next books of the series ?
a each book will widen the story out to encompass more history time .
book one covers one hundred years .
book two covers two thousand years , book three covers sixty five million years and book four spans all time .
the story will go further and further away from its start and the characters will evolve significantly .
it 's a rollercoaster ride into the unexpected , built on the history we know and the conspiracies we love .
to get you going , i placed a preview of book two at the end of this novel .
it introduces the first twist to the story .
i tried to write a story you could not anticipate but , to be fair , i placed hints and reveals through the series , telling you exactly where the story is going .
i buried them well so keep a sharp eye out .
q what are you working on now ?
a i have just released my next novel 'the vostok juncture ' .
it is an all out action story , following a team of scientists exploring lake vostok , a huge lake buried two miles beneath the ice in antarctica .
it reads like a bobsled ride , grabbing you and not letting go until the last page .
check for it on most online book sites , or through smashwords.com .
you wo n't be disappointed .
to get you in the mood , i 've placed an excerpt from the vostok juncture at the end of this book .
it should whet your appetite .
q what made you write the vostok juncture ?
a vostok juncture was an interloper .
i had no plans for writing it after the caves of etretat epic series .
i was all set to write the anticorp but , one night , i watched a documentary , titled the lost world of lake vostok .
by the time it was finished , vostok juncture was born , a flash of crazy story images too strong to be denied .
it had to be written as soon as possible .
q did you see it as a precursor to the anticorp ?
a not at the beginning .
vostok juncture had fantastic possibilities for action .
i 'd also fallen in love with two movies , both called the thing , about men in an antarctic camp , stuck with an alien creature that ate and replaced them one by one .
trust was hard to come by .
there was nowhere to run .
the vostok juncture provided the elements necessary for me to create a similar situation .
the connection to anticorp came as an afterthought .
i was dead set against writing another sequential series .
i wanted each book to be a stand alone read .
my solution was to position the vostok juncture at a specific point in time , within the anticorp storyline .
the two stories are connected but not dependent on each other .
q what made you choose action as the genre ?
a i always liked action stories but never imagined myself as an action writer .
writing and , more importantly , editing the caves of etretat introduced me to the importance of pace .
i chased that concept , sacrificing detail to find it .
the series was an amalgam of genres and action was developed as a counterpoint to balance less energetic scenes .
reviews from readers convinced me they enjoyed the action more than the rest .
this pushed me towards writing a pure action story , where everything else would be in the background .
the result is quite satisfactory , convincing me to keep action as the main genre for other stories .
q the vostok juncture seems straightforward on the surface but is it really ?
a the story is tricky .
i wrote it without flashbacks or time interruptions .
it moves forward unstoppably , following the events in vostok station for about two days , which is what makes it seem straightforward .
however the story itself is inverted , following the antagonists rather than the protagonist .
if you were to push it further , you could say none of the main protagonists are even there in the story .
the megacorps and anticorp are the ones calling the shots but only their proxies are present .
all we really follow is a bunch of peons doing what they were told and hoping to survive .
who can the reader root for ?
q so no hollywood ending then .
is n't that risky in a book ?
a i do n't write books to make readers feel good .
i write books to entertain them .
i believe the only way to do that is to push the envelope .
do n't stick to the usual storylines , twist them around .
add levels of complexity to the story , play games with the readers .
i went to extremes doing that in the caves of etretat series .
strangely , the main issue i explored back then was good versus bad .
is there even such a thing or is it all subjective perception ?
i took four books to answer those questions .
the same issue is addressed here , making readers question long established concepts .
also , for those uncomfortable with my extreme ending , i wrote an alternate ending providing a more 'hollywoody ' outcome .
q are you planning any other books ?
a there is another interloper .
it almost gained the upper hand over vostok juncture .
i fought it off for a year but i long to go back to the 'caves of etretat ' series .
q i thought the series was done .
you certainly ca n't continue that story .
it 's a closed loop .
a you 're right .
however , i can go back and fill in some blanks .
for example , between books one and two , weissmuller , the immortal serial killer , took a two week vacation .
his main reason was to get away from the irritating o'flanahan .
i 've come up with a humdinger of an idea about what an immortal serial killer can get up to in fourteen days .
it should be a blast .
if that one works out , i have a few other weissmuller stories in the back of my mind .
check for it next year .
the sirenne saga unknowingly manipulated to become the key in the final phase of a complex conspiracy spanning millennia , paul sirenne is led to discover hidden knowledge and gain fantastic new abilities , preparing him for an ultimate confrontation beyond the forces of good and evil .
the 'caves of etretat ' series is a four book , epic adventure which follows sirenne as he learns the answer to the primordial question why are we here ?
inextricably woven into actual history and intrinsically based on ancient esoteric principles , the series gradually reveals an alternate perspective on the nature of reality , explaining the why and the how of our existence through sirenne 's personal evolution .
delve deeper into the mysteries of paul sirenne 's story in all four books book one the caves of etretat in the first novel of the series , paul sirenne uncovers a lost family secret , leading him on a historical treasure chase , shortly after his father is found brutally murdered .
assisted by three friends via the internet and hunted by a serial killer , he ends up in touristic etretat , france , on the trail of a hundred year old mystery , hidden in maurice leblanc 's book 'the hollow needle ' .
falling in love with leblanc 's great granddaughter and running at a breakneck pace , he deals with puzzles , theories , codes and historical mysteries , leading him to believe that leblanc held a secret war against adolf hitler for the control of an incredible complex of caves hidden next to etretat .
book two the four books of etretat in the second novel , sirenne discovers the real reason for the hidden war the secret of immortality .
becoming an immortal himself , sirenne learns of the abbey , a thousand year old organization dedicated to chasing the oldest immortal on earth , known as the greyman .
the abbey has given sirenne control of the caves and its secrets , apparently preparing him for a confrontation with the greyman .
unfortunately , the serial killer who killed sirenne 's father , weissmuller , has discovered this knowledge before sirenne .
now an immortal and constantly dogging sirenne 's steps , weissmuller seems to be playing a game of his own .
book three the one book of etretat in the third novel , the world is in chaos .
countless disasters are occurring everywhere and a pandemic disease is killing all children in the womb .
people and countries , desperate for a solution , are demanding sirenne 's immortality cure .
sirenne knows it 's not the true answer and is desperately trying to solve the clues laid out by maurice leblanc and the abbey , looking for the one book .
changed by his immortality , he develops new senses which give him an increasingly different perspective on everything he sees .
at the same time , all events seem to be converging on him .
weissmuller , the immortal serial killer is circling closer and closer .
book four the greyman .
in the fourth and final novel of the series , sirenne learns that he has been selected to lead the abbey to the other , the only being strong enough to defeat the greyman .
sirenne has mastered electromagnetic flight and the ability to manifest objects and manipulate matter .
weissmuller has revealed himself and an uneasy alliance has been made .
the world is falling apart and people are dying by the millions as sirenne continues trying to understand what is really going on .
the unstoppable greyman is drawing near and an ultimate confrontation seems inevitable .
everything rests on sirenne 's final decision .
will he be able to accept the real answers behind everything ?
more books by matt chatelain the sirenne saga is matt chatelain 's first series 1 the caves of etretat , published dec 2011 2 the four books of etretat , published may 2012 3 the one book of etretat , published august 2012 4 the greyman , published oct 2012 new release the vostok juncture , published jan 2014 upcoming novel weissmuller 's vacation , anticipated release date jan 2015 check his website www.mattchatelain.com for more about his latest projects .
books one , two , and three of the series are free for download at smashwords.com links to books for sale , or for free download , can be found on his website .
otherwise they are available as ebooks at kindle or , as hardcopy , at amazon.com about the author born in ottawa , fifty two years ago , i have been the owner of a used bookstore i opened in ontario , since 1990 .
i have been writing since i was ten .
beginning with poetry , i quickly moved on to short stories and non fiction pieces .
i stayed in that format for many years , eventually self publishing a franchise manual , as well as a variety of booklets .
having semi retired from the bookstore , i embarked on the project of writing my first serious novel , which i expanded to a four book series after discovering an incredible mystery hidden within a french author 's books .
my interests are eclectic .
i like quantum physics , cosmology , history , archaeology , science in general , mechanics , free power , recycling and re use .
i 'm a good handyman and can usually fix just about anything .
i 'm good with computers .
i love movies , both good and bad , preferring action and war movies .
i can draw and paint fairly well but am so obsessed with perspective and light that i can not think of much else .
i am too detail oriented .
i have been around books all my life .
in my mid forties , i decided to focus on writing as my future job .
it took me five years to learn the trade .
now i know how fast i can write and how to develop my story and characters .
i always wage an internal war to decide if my next story is going to be a mild mystery or a big stake epic .
so far the big stakes are winning the author 's website contact info find out more about the author , the sirenne saga , and contact information at his website www.mattchatelain.com on his site , you will find background information about the series , as well as info about the author 's current projects .
the site also contains material from previous projects and a bio of the author .
of particular interest to 'the caves of etretat ' readers will be a copy of leblanc 's original manuscript for those interested in solving his secret code .
otherwise , you will find the answer in book two , 'the four books of etretat ' .
bonus one an excerpt from book two , 'the four books of etretat ' early that morning , coulter had called me on the wireless intranet that connected all of us together .
raymonde and i had continued wearing our techno glasses sunglasses with built in monitor , cameras , speakers and microphones , all connected wirelessly via an intranet .
the lenses were now tinted darkly , because the fungus produced light in the caves had been increasing in intensity .
the techno glasses ' usefulness had been noted and others were obtained so that the main personnel could stay in contact with each other .
more were purchased until , eventually , everyone in the caves had a pair .
they became a popular tool for net members , who could connect instantly with each other and consult in real time while examining streaming video of the discoveries .
it speeded up the process to no end .
now people , would just stop working , sit down for a break and have an online discussion about the best way to proceed .
as many could be brought into the decision making process as was necessary .
once done , people would disconnect and continue with their work .
it made for a certain type of hive mentality and private channels were quickly set up to allow for gossip and social activities .
schedules were organized for video broadcasts at certain times and a 'breaking news ' interactive hotline had been set up , which had received rave reviews .
coulter had designed all intranet systems for simplicity of use and now , the glasses were part of our social lives , most wearing them nearly twenty four seven .
coulter had given me a five minutes heads up that he wanted to hold an online meeting .
he and i were going to meet o'flanahan physically in a little while and i did not understand the rush .
he had sounded serious , telling me to prepare myself for some bad news .
he would not say more .
i connected online with raymonde and we talked privately , as i prepared a coffee in our kitchen .
what do you think he could have to say ? ''
she wondered .
i do n't know .
he had that look in his eyes , the one that spells worry and trouble .
it ca n't be good , '' i replied .
how has your day gone ? ''
fine .
excellent really .
i am on my way to you on the first automated electric golf cart to be brought online .
they have an onboard computer and can safely carry anyone to any point in the renovated cave areas .
they can even recharge themselves .
we have just finished bringing in the last of the supplies this morning .
so everyone is fairly happy .
it figures that coulter would announce rain on such a good day .
here i am , '' she got off her cart , the video showing her approach to a familiar door .
our own .
i got up , turning off my glasses and opened the main door , finding her standing there , about to enter .
i hugged her tightly and we returned to the kitchen , where i served her some coffee .
i had made it strong but found it weak and flat .
the others signed on and the online meeting got underway .
what was so important , coulter ? ''
rasped liam o'flanahan .
we 're going to meet in a little while anyway . ''
indeed , coulter , i was in the middle of a meeting with the head of the archeological team .
we are just about to begin the first excavations .
despite the convenience of this intranet , it is sometimes a bother , '' added jonathan briar .
guys , please , this is difficult enough . ''
interrupted a nervous coulter .
maybe i should just get to the point .
you all remember this video , i hope.
the glasses ' monitor changed to show a still video image , slightly grainy .
it was a rearward looking shot over several passengers sitting in a plane .
i remembered it instantly .
this was from my first plane flight to paris , the one where i originally met raymonde , thanks to o'flanahan 's antics .
it was also the one where we had seen norton , the shadow killer , disguised as harry stiles , a man he had killed for his plane ticket .
my eyes refocused on the image , picking out the perfectly disguised norton , as coulter superimposed a red outline around his face .
you all know how i like playing with my videos . ''
o'flanahan snickered but coulter ignored him , remaining focused on what he was telling us .
this one image bothered me in particular .
it took me a while to figure out what was niggling at me but i finally got it .
let me give you a hint . ''
the image altered , with the fake harry stiles fading suddenly into light grey tones .
it allowed me to focus more closely on what was behind stiles .
i saw a row of seats , filled with various people .
my eyes were drawn by an odd shape behind and just to the right of stiles .
it was a man sitting in a seat , his body and face mostly hidden by stiles ' outline .
although he was bending his head down , as if deliberately trying to hide himself , something in the curve of the nose and the end of the man 's chin struck me as familiar .
i felt my mind revving up , scanning through all the faces i could think of .
only one matched .
i mentally superimposed it on the video image and it fit perfectly .
norton was on that plane with the shadow killer . ''
i said .
how did you catch on so quickly ? ''
coulter exclaimed , while he highlighted the interpol inspector 's outline .
i just saw it .
it was obvious , '' i said simply .
well , you are , as always , correct .
norton was on that plane , sitting right behind the man disguised as harry stiles , who had to be the shadow killer .
if norton was on that plane with the killer ... o'flanahan , jumping to the conspiracy minded conclusion , interrupted coulter .
then norton could n't be the shadow killer .
ha ha ha .
i knew it .
briar killed the wrong man . ''
briar became apoplectic .
i resent that , o'flanahan .
you 're trying to imply that i did the wrong thing , that i killed an innocent man somehow .
well , you could n't be more wrong and you know it .
killer or not , the man was deranged .
you all saw that .
he shot at sirenne before and then he attacked him on the beach with a knife , intent on killing him .
if i had n't done what i did , paul would be dead by now .
i do n't regret what i did , not for a second . ''
yes , liam , jonathan 's right , '' supported raymonde .
we ca n't blame him for doing the best he could during difficult times .
he made the only decision he was able to . ''
briar jumped back in , not finished .
thank you , raymonde , but it 's not just that .
i do n't think any of you have thought this through to its inevitable conclusions .
firstly , sirenne 's father warned us of the importance of silence .
perhaps norton was not the shadow killer but he was dangerous nonetheless and knew something about our caves .
he was screaming the letters h and n at every opportunity , pointing his finger at the book , the hollow needle .
how long would our great hunt have lasted then ? ''
briar added .
perhaps you all find me heartless but we have proven to ourselves the reality of these caves .
i am convinced that keeping them secret is of paramount importance.
hey , briar , you just made me realize something . ''
o'flanahan admitted .
when you mentioned about norton always talking about hn .
we always thought that it was connected to leblanc 's hollow needle book .
but now i 'm beginning to wonder if he even knew of the book .
do any of you remember what norton was screaming at sirenne , when he attacked him on top of the cliff ?
did n't he ask paul about his sister after mentioning the letters ? ''
i flashed on the scene in my mind , the image vivid , seeing norton as he held his gun pointed at me , screaming in the wind .
i ran norton 's words in slow motion in my mind , editing out the wind noise .
helena .
he called her helena .
helena norton .
the letters hn ! ''
i whispered .
you got it , bucko .
but i 'm sure he said something else after that.
i remember that too .
let me call up the video , i 've got it right here , '' coulter exclaimed excitedly .
the monitor image jumped to the streaming video recorded by my techno glasses when i was walking towards the bunker on top of etretat 's aval cliff , the location of the original fort of frefosse , where our adventure had begun .
the video fast forwarded and i watched myself running through my paces until it froze as i turned around to face norton .
he held his small gun at waist height .
everyone saw me whip out my gun in a surprise move .
man , that was nervy , paul .
i 'd forgotten about that , '' stated an impressed coulter .
he started the video and played back norton 's key words .
first , it was my sister , helena .
then it was my friend henri nadeau .
then all the others , all the same and they were all blaming me .
but they did n't understand .
it was all a game and i was stuck in it .
it was n't me .
they were wrong .
i just ca n't prove it .
and now he stole my file , everything i had on him . ''
he laughed , a bit madly in my opinion but stopped himself and continued his ramble .
and this time , the first time ever , i caught him .
i saw him .
the shadow killer .
he was leaving with my file under his arm and i saw him in the mirror , the door was open .
and he .
he was me , he was me , ha ha , he was me , can you believe it ?
ha ha ha , what a perfect trick . ''
when i had heard these words the first time , i had thought them incomprehensible , the ravings of a demented killer .
now , looking at it slightly differently , i understood his words in a completely new way .
everyone spoke up at the same time .
o'flanahan took control , talking louder than everyone , anxious to bring his point home .
something had been bugging me about what he said .
it was n't just his sister but his friend henri nadeau .
another hn .
then norton says something about all the others and everyone blaming him . ''
coulter sprang into action , his fingers flashing on his keyboard .
i can check into that .
i 'll tap into the interpol files about norton .
there we go . ''
he scanned his results with a practiced eye and exclaimed wow , it was right there in front of us , all the time .
every one of the murdered victims had the initials hn .
horatio nolan , honore noel , the list goes on and on .
norton 's words are making more and more sense all of a sudden . ''
o'flanahan continued spinning logical conclusions .
if norton was not the killer , then the shadow killer was the one murdering all manner of people around norton , anyone with the initials hn , driving norton mad , goading him constantly .
when paul 's parents were killed and their bodies twisted into those exact same letters , it was like drawing a moth to the flame .
norton would have run directly towards any murder connected to the letters hn .
perhaps the hollow needle never had anything to do with it for him . ''
raymonde exclaimed , struck by another possibility .
after that , when he talked of seeing the shadow killer reflected in the mirror . ''
the very thing which made me think he had two personalities , '' i added , in tune with raymonde 's thoughts .
exactly .
we already knew the shadow killer could disguise himself what if he disguised himself as norton and norton saw him in the mirror ?
his words would not be those of a multiple personality murderer , but those of a man driven mad by a killer haunting his footsteps for years .
the very idea of it is absolutely horrifying .
but why was the killer doing this ? ''
she asked .
is n't it obvious ?
it was to drive him mad , to prime him and goad him until he was ready to explode .
when paul 's parents were arranged in the shape of those letters , it guaranteed that the murders would be quickly followed by an enraged cop who would pounce on sirenne .
it was a set up , probably planned by the shadow killer , to lead the crazed norton directly to paul 's doorstep . ''
o'flanahan continued .
i exploded .
o'flanahan , if that 's true , it also means the shadow killer began planning this thing fifteen years ago at least , when he killed norton 's sister .
that is a scary thought .
not only is he still out there , he has been planning this thing for a very , very long time . ''
o'flanahan nodded his head , looking thoughtful .
i wonder how old the guy is ? ''
maybe the killer needed someone for us to blame , to focus on , in order to take our attention off what he was really doing , '' suggested briar .
that sounds exactly right , briar , '' supported o'flanahan .
well , he has succeeded in his attempts , '' i added .
so far we still do n't know who he is , where he is and why he is there in the first place .
at least we now know he is out there .
we can hopefully begin taking measures to protect ourselves against him . ''
if we can find him .
he certainly lives up to his name .
he has successfully remained deeply in the shadows and is probably still hiding there now , watching our every move , using us as puppets .
the thought is frightening , '' stated coulter .
the only option available is to continue our efforts in uncovering the secret of the caves and , through that , we might be able to understand why the killer is prodding us .
he knows more than we do about this mystery and is looking for something he believes only we can provide .
until we find that , there is a fair chance that we will remain safe , '' i reasoned .
i agree , paul .
the shadow killer has not attacked any of us personally to date .
as long as we keep doing what he wants , he will likely remain in the shadows .
it gives us a window of opportunity .
let us seize it and find some answers but let 's do it faster than he is expecting .
then , he will be in our shadow . ''
briar added , as forceful and focused as ever .
end of excerpt bonus two a brief excerpt from the vostok juncture matt chatelain 's latest release leung 's eyes snapped open .
miron stood less than twenty feet away .
the cook briefly took his eyes off the spy and surveyed the area .
debris was scattered everywhere , a combination of broken shelves and chunks of ice .
there was no sign of the poisonous mist .
leung was pinned , his legs covered by a mangled shelf .
miraculously , his hand was still clasping the meat cleaver .
miron 's flashlight scanned across the smouldering debris but stopped when a hacking cough attracted his attention .
it was robinson .
the man was in a sorry state , having been nearest to the propane tank when it exploded .
his left arm and leg were broken and he was bleeding from several lacerations to the body and head .
barely conscious , his eyes still closed , he was moaning , his head lolling from left to right .
miron hurried to the downed man as leung watched on , terrified .
illuminating robinson 's broken body with the flashlight , the spy shot him once in the head with his silenced twenty two .
robinson 's body jerked spasmodically then was still .
leung gasped in horror .
miron 's flashlight sought out the faint sound .
leung held his breath , his eyes riveted on the spy .
the tendons on the back of his hand strained as he tightened his grip on the cleaver .
missing leung completely , the flashlight beam caught bowes full on .
bleeding seriously from a jagged wound to his side , he was crawling towards robinson 's shotgun , mere feet out of reach .
revealed by the flashlight , bowes lunged forward , grunting as he lifted the shotgun and pulled the trigger .
miron dove out of the blast 's way , shooting several times with his pistol as he fell .
bowes was hit in the chest three times .
blood spurting from his wounds , he dropped backwards .
hitting the ground , he struggled to get up .
you bastard .
i 'll ...
i 'll ...
unhhhhh ! ''
weakened by blood loss , bowes fell back , nearly dead but still conscious .
miron , aiming dispassionately , shot him in the temple .
bowes breathed his last as the spy fished in his pocket for a new clip .
hearing sounds from down the tunnel , miron reacted quickly , removing his gas mask and hurrying towards the coat room exit .
leung , seeing him approach , lay quietly , biding his time .
as miron ran past , leung swung he cleaver .
the heavy blade sliced deeply into the spy 's left leg , just above the calf .
miron gasped and tumbled forward , his leg folding under him .
the twenty two went flying as miron braced for impact with his arms .
leung scrabbled out of the debris , reaching for miron 's dropped pistol , but was held back by his foot , still jammed under the broken shelf unit .
miron , clasping his bloody leg wound , caught sight of leung struggling to reach the pistol , the cook kicking at the shelf unit frantically .
his pants ripped and he rolled away , landing a few feet from the gun .
he went for it but was kicked in the side before he could grasp it .
miron kicked him in the gut again .
the cook grunted and doubled over .
the driver went to stomp the man 's head but leung surprised him with another swipe of the cleaver .
miron had to jump out of the way , barely avoiding evisceration .
the spy fell back hard and something cracked in his shoulder when he hit the ground .
trying to get up , he slipped on his own blood and fell back down .
leung , gasping from the kicks to his ribs , clambered on top of miron and rained several blows on his head with the cleaver handle .
lifting his arm up in the air , he readied to slice the man 's head off .
barely conscious , miron , unable to move his left arm , punched leung in the throat with his right fist .
leung dropped the cleaver , choking and gasping , instinctively reaching for his throat .
miron stretched his right hand as far as it would go , groping desperately for the gun , inches away .
miron swung the weapon up but leung let go of his neck and grasped the pistol by the silencer .
for a few moments the cook struggled intensely with miron , both men grunting with the effort .
leung leaned onto miron 's broken arm , a sickening sound coming from shoulder as the limb folded in two .
miron screamed in agony but , adrenaline flooding him , gave one last heave , throwing the cook off his chest with a jerk of the hips .
the move loosened the cook 's grip on the pistol enough for miron to pull it free and shoot .
the bullet shattered leung 's jaw , ripped through his tongue , his palate , past the nasal cavity , and into the brain .
the cook fell onto miron , blood splattering on the spy 's face .
spitting out a mouthful , he shoved leung 's body off and sat up .
voices echoed through the tunnels as the other search party approached .
miron used the cook 's apron as a makeshift sling for his mangled arm .
ripping strips off leung 's shirt , he wrapped them around his dripping leg as best he could and headed to the exit , vanishing up the stairs .
that 's it for now .
see you in book two .
tale of the white rock wizard war on the magic mountain the quest for mount qui wizard quests of island world series chronicles of an enchanted land book i a. e. mableson you can get the second book in this series , time of troubles , free at this link .
description gwaum lusted to devour human flesh arii lusted for revenge .
born of fire and forbidden magic , the beast gwaum roamed at will through island world , ravaging and feeding as he wished .
he devoured the boy arii 's family , but arii escaped into the dark forest .
ariis uncle nerza felt in his bones that something was wrong .
his wizard staff in hand the great wizard set off to find the boy .
he discovered the ruined cottage and bloodstained grass that told a story of horror and death .
nerza noted signs that someone may have escaped the carnage and escaped into the forest .
the wizard followed the trail and rescued the boy .
he took him in and trained arii to be a wizard .
arii learned the lore of the wizards and became powerful .
his training complete , he set off on his epic fantasy quest to destroy the creature gwaum .
but , strong as he was , was he a match for the powerful beast that he would confront ?
he would need help in his epic adventure to best the powerful creature .
the dark wizard darnay birthed the evil monster .
using the power of the sun and the moon , he conjured up the powerful beast .
his first meal of living human flesh ensured that nothing short of eating live victims would sate his evil appetite .
seeking to use the creature to control island world , the wizard at first controlled the creature .
gwaum soon gained the upper hand and devoured his master , escaping into the vulnerable lands of napoli .
soon , he toppled the kingdom and began his rein , spreading terror and carnage over the land .
adding to the terror , a band of raiders arose in service to gwaum .
these neferious men traveled the land , capturing victims to feed thier master .
of the thousands they captured , only a small band led by turson and sali escaped .
after many epic adventures found their way back to their home in torne .
turson wondered who would help island world escape from the evil creature conjured up by an evil wizards fantasy .
beset by barbarians in his native land , prince bearl led his people away .
they sought refuge in a legendary paradise marked by a white rock capped mountain across the encircling seas .
many feared these were only the imaginary lands of an old mans stories .
instead of paradise , they found a world infested with a bloodthirsty monster .
bearl despaired to find a safe haven for his people .
after many trials and adventures , the paths of these fantasy heroes cross .
the epic legend of their story continues as arii goes off alone to confront the creature .
bearl , sent by the wizard nerza , followed along behind .
their quests brought them to the lofty crest of mount qui , a mountain already steeped in an ancient magic .
the wizard arii and gwaum clash in battle atop the mountain .
gwaum prevails .
the fate of island world depends on the courage of prince bearl .
the wizard and the warrior combined their strength against the terrible creature .
would it be enough ?
the tale of the white rock is the first novel of the epic adventure fantasy series , myths and legends of island world chronicles of an enchanted land .
in this epic fantasy adventure series the powerful wizards of the golden star rise .
they use their magic and courage to battle the evil monster gwaum .
these epic tales relate this struggle as well as other threats to their homeland of island world .
if you would like email notification of when new installments of the tales of island world series are available email the author for inclusion in the subscription list .
aemableson gmail.com join a. e. mableson on facebook http www.facebook.com aemablesonfantasy on twitter aemableson mossy feet books tale of the white rock published by a. e. mableson copyright 2012 by a. e. mableson smashwords edition this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given way to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if you 're reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
all rights reserved .
all characters in this book are fictional and any resemblance to actual persons , living or dead , is entirely coincidental .
table of contents part i wizard of the golden star book 2 the rise of gwaum book 3 promise of the white rock book 4 the covenant map of island world the works of a. e. mableson sample chapter chapter one the awakening next in the series forward by the author the tale of the white rock is the first novel in the series tales of island world .
it was the third one that i wrote , though .
originally , i envisioned a trilogy when i wrote the pirate king .
the trilogy would include that title , the wizard king and the quest of the king .
after completing the novel , i realized that i had started in the middle of the story .
questions flitted in my mind .
how did gwaum originate ?
how did arii become enshrined forever in the white rock ?
how and where did the house of vin , king of acerland originate .
the tale of the white rock answers those questions .
i serialized tale of the white rock in four parts .
the wizard of the golden star , the rise of gwaum , the promise of the white rock and the covenant combines into one novel .
time of troubles , chronicles the turmoil that grips island world as it awakens from gwaum 's nightmare .
war and turbulence replace the darkness of fear as kingdoms jockey for dominance .
the third novel in the beginning trilogy , before the storm , relates the activities of the evil wizard gault .
he plots to become wizard king .
his intrigues weaken the covenant , thus paving the way for gwaum to reemerge from his dormancy .
thus , with tale of the white rock the tale begins .
i hope you enjoy my little story .
a. e. mableson map of island world back to table of contents book 1 the wizard of the golden star a. e. mableson tale of the white rock arii escapes a question asked , and a question answered trial by water a request granted mualla wizard of the winds a great wand for a great wizard a small success wizard of the encircling winds the next step wizard of the eternal flame cirile gwaum strikes first steps first success the glade rebirth a message waylaid a story begun back to table of contents arii escapes the afternoon sun caressed the land with its golden rays .
beneath its watching eyes , a boy gathered red berries at the forests edge .
his pail was almost half full when he heard his mothers call .
arii .
arii honey , its time to come home .
your father is here and dinner is ready .
arii paused and looked in his bucket .
the berries fragrance nibbled at his nose .
his mother made some of the best red berry pie in the valley .
he glanced back at the cottage that stood at the edge of the meadow where he was gathering berries .
he saw his mother looking for him , her hand shading her eyes as she scanned the meadow .
when she sighted him , she waved and then she went back inside .
it took a full bucket of red berries for a pie .
he did not have enough .
he looked back at the patch he was standing in .
fresh red berries glistened in the sun inviting him to pick more .
overhead , he could hear the chatter of birds as they awaited his departure so they could resume their feast on the sweet fruit .
just a bit further on he could see a large clump of berries .
that clump would finish his bucket .
it would take just a few minutes more and he would have enough .
he worked his way further into the patch , the thorns tearing his clothes and scratching his bare arms and legs .
he regretted not listening to his mothers warnings to wear thicker clothing .
but the weather was warm and he did not want to get hot and sweaty .
he reached the clump and filled his bucket .
arii was happy .
the bucket was full .
he turned to walk back to his home .
the sound of crashing trees in the forest behind his home swept across the meadow .
arii watched in terror as a huge oak fell , splitting the cottage .
his feet froze to the ground as a huge red monster stepped from the forest .
a single , hungry eye bored into his as the creature stood towering over the meadow .
he could see his mother , holding his baby sister , wriggle through a window .
his father followed , looked up and stood between the monster and his wife and child .
a huge red hand reached down and grabbed at the man .
he turned to flee , but too late , the hand clasped him .
arii could hear the crunching of his fathers rib cage as death cut off his scream .
blood flowed from his mouth .
the monster raised the man , and with a single gulp , swallowed him .
his mother backed away .
her foot caught on a log .
she tripped .
the monster caught her by the foot , and picked her up .
with upturned maw , he dangled the screaming woman over his head .
the baby slipped from her grip and fell into the black , gaping mouth .
the woman followed her child an instant later .
terror engulfed the boy , freezing his breath and chilling his heart .
the monster belched and then looked at the arii .
a smile played across gwaums face and he began striding towards him .
arii dropped his bucket of red berries .
the bucket spilled , and the red berries stained the boys bare feet .
he backed up , slowly at first and then he turned and ran .
he could hear the giant feet of the monster thumping hard on the ground behind him .
he ran faster and faster .
he reached the trees and fled deep into the forest .
the thumping behind him stopped , but arii ran harder , flung on by his fear .
on and on he ran , until exhausted , he fell at the edge of a small stream .
a huge log lay in front of him , dead and hollow .
he crept into the log .
the rotting wood was dank in his nose as it flaked away .
white grubs , exposed from the disturbance , wriggled and burrowed deeper into the wood .
the sun fell .
darkness descended and the night sounds began .
narls howled in the distance .
arii pulled himself deeper into the log , tears of grief and fear falling from his eyes .
exhaustion crept upon him and he finally fell asleep .
morning dawned in the tiny hamlet of jarna .
nerza awoke to the chirping of birds in the garden behind his stone cottage .
a few people still clung to this village , so far from the road of terror .
as the sleep left his eyes , nerza sat up .
yesterday he had heard the sounds of the monster gwaum , far in the distance .
for many years , he had not heard that sound .
worry ate at nerza .
his sister , her husband and two young children dwelt in a cottage in a protected valley nearby .
it was from that direction that he heard the sounds .
he ate a sparse breakfast of hard cheese and bread .
he took his snow white staff with the golden star on the tip of the hilt and walked off down the road .
he reached a small stream that marked the valley .
he followed the footpath upstream .
his path soon reached the clearing and meadow that marked his sisters cottage .
he stopped , horror flooding his soul as he saw the crushed cottage .
he walked towards it .
a bloodstain marked the ground near the cottage .
the monster had fed .
hot tears of grief filled his eyes and sobs erupted from his throat .
he fell to the ground and beat it with his fists .
finally he stood .
something glinting in the sun at the edge of the meadow caught his eye .
he walked towards it .
as he neared it , he could see that it was a metal pail lying on its side , its contents of red berries strewn across the path .
he picked it up .
he looked towards the forest .
broken branches and trampled wildflowers marked the path of someone fleeing into the forest .
he could see the larger footprints of the monster , which trailed towards the woods .
they appeared to follow someone who had escaped into the forest .
nerza strode towards the woods .
he noted that the huge footsteps stopped , then turned back into the meadow .
who ever it was that escaped was too small a morsel for a monster who had just fed on two adults and a baby .
perhaps arii had escaped .
the boy loved red berries .
maybe the boy had picked red berries in the meadow and escaped into the woods .
nerza stepped into the wood .
he could see that disturbed leaves on the forest floor , marking the passage of someone .
he noted the distance between the footprints .
a child had fled this way .
hope arose in his breast .
nerza paused and studied the terrain before him .
it was summer , and the early spring flowers had faded .
the leaf litter from the previous fall was rotting , turning to the mould that would nourish the soil .
tracking the boy would require more woodcraft than wizard craft .
nerzas father had been a hunter and had imparted these skills , long unused , to nerza when he was a boy .
he continued his trek through the wood , with an occasional pause to peruse the signs left by the fleeing boy .
the trail ended near a stream that cut through the forest .
nerza again paused and looked upstream .
then he looked downstream .
he crossed the small stream and searched for the trail to no avail .
it had vanished .
he returned to the spot where the trail stopped .
again , he studied the stream .
the boy had apparently followed the stream .
which way did he go ?
arii , nerza called .
arii , are you here ?
the forest was silent .
a huge log by the streams bank beckoned him to sit and rest .
nerza sat down on the log to think .
silence engulfed him as he sat in the woods .
he became aware of a slight sound .
he pricked up his ears .
the sound seemed to flow around him .
what was it and where was it coming from ?
he stood up and glanced at the log .
was the log talking to him ?
he walked to the end and saw that it was hollow .
the log was big , as was the opening .
it was big enough to hide a small child .
he withdrew the wand from the handle of the staff .
the end of the wand lit , emitting a soft light .
he knelt and stuck the wand into the dark hole .
eyes glinted at him , glowing in the light .
then he saw a face .
arii ?
it is your uncle nerza .
come out , boy .
dont be afraid .
you are safe .
the whimpering stopped , and the boy crawled out , covered with the decaying wood of the tree and leaf fragments .
a wriggling grub lay on his shoulder .
clothing torn and stained , he bore the dark smell of decaying wood .
nerza brushed the grub off .
uncle nerza .
oh , uncle nerza .
the boy grasped the wizard around the shoulders .
his sobs resounded through the forest .
his tears stained nerzas shoulders .
he held the boy for a long time , trying to comfort him .
the boy , with a voice thick with sorrow and fright , said , oh , uncle nerza , it was horrible .
the monster broke our house .
he killed momma and papa .
i know , arii .
i saw your house .
i tracked you through the forest .
i hoped against hope that you escaped and were safe .
we will never be safe , uncle .
not as long as that horrible monster lives .
his sobs returned .
finally , nerza pushed the boy away and studied his face .
you will come to live with me now , arii .
you will come with me to jarna .
will the monster come there , too ?
will he eat us there ?
nerza shook his head .
i have protected my house with a magic spell .
gwaum can not see my house .
he will pass us by .
why didnt you protect my house , uncle ?
i wanted to , arii .
your father did not like wizards .
he would not let me place any kind of spell .
he thought the valley was safe .
but it wasnt , uncle .
the monster found us .
he killed them and ate them .
yes , the monster did horrible things , arii .
nerza stood .
he took ariis hand .
it is time to go , arii .
we will go to my home .
you will be safe there .
he and arii strode through the forest .
nerza took a different path .
he followed the stream to its junction with the larger stream , and this he followed to the road .
then , holding ariis hand , they walked to his stone cottage near jarna .
in less than a day , nerzas role as uncle had changed to parent of a young , growing boy .
he hoped that he was equal to the task .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents a question asked , and a question answered men have a habit of rising to the task at hand .
nerza responded to the daunting duty of raising his nephew with zeal and an acumen that he could never have guessed he had .
the years flowed by and nerza watched as the boy grew .
he sat on the stone bench behind the cottage and watched arii , almost twelve now , weed the garden .
it was hot , and nerza needed a rest .
the apple tree that shaded him was already fragrant with ripening fruit .
bees hummed as they worked gathering their sustenance from the flowers in the garden .
he took a drink of water from a stone jar that rested beside him .
the water , still cool from its sojourn in the nearby well , refreshed him .
as he studied the boys movement , his mind worked .
he sensed a growing strength in the child .
destiny promised great things for the boy , but what that greatness was to be , nerza could not tell .
he had taught him a bit of magic that the boy had grasped well .
he had the makings of a wizard .
was that where his fate lay ?
arii , come here .
arii stopped and walked over to nerza .
sit , arii .
i have some things to talk to you about .
arii sat down next to the wizard .
what do you want , uncle nerza ?
nerza looked down into the inquisitive eyes .
you are old enough to begin the studies necessary for wizardry , arii .
would you like to do that ?
the boy nodded .
i would like that very much , uncle .
nerza smiled and asked .
have you considered becoming a wizard of the golden star ?
yes , uncle , i would .
the wizards of the golden star are the most powerful wizards on island world .
nerza stood , placed his hands on the boys shoulders and looked into his eyes .
it is a long , hard road , arii .
there is much study .
you will be away from home for long periods of time .
why , uncle ?
why must i go away ?
to become a wizard of the golden star , you must first attain the rite of investiture from each of four major orders of wizardry .
i have already spoken to moog , of the order of the encircling waters .
he has agreed to train you .
he is a member of the nix clan which inhabits the nehru river .
he can begin your training here , in jarna .
when he completes your training you will have to travel far from home .
most of the wizards , save two , live in far countries .
if that is what i have to do to become a wizard like you , then i will do it .
nerza studied the boys face , trying to read his eyes .
there was more to this than he could discern .
why do you want to be a wizard , arii ?
the boy was silent a moment before answering .
he scuffled his bare feet in the dirt under the bench .
finally he said , the monster killed my momma and papa .
he killed my sister .
he must pay .
if i am a powerful wizard , i can make him pay for what he did .
nerza pulled his hands from the boys shoulders .
the monster is powerful , arii .
too powerful even for me .
even i , a wizard of the golden star , must hide my dwelling with magic so he will not attack me .
arii looked into nerzas eyes .
there was strength in those deep black eyes .
he wondered at that time long ago and what he and the other wizards had loosed .
he pushed the thought back into his memory as the boy spoke .
i will study and learn , uncle nerza .
i will learn magic from you , and the others who train me .
i will become strong .
i will become stronger than the monster .
then i will destroy him .
nerza became afraid .
he did not wish to train the boy to go to his own death .
that other memory surfaced .
had they made a mistake those many years ago ?
he looked again into those eyes .
perhaps that was what he felt .
perhaps that was the boys fate .
he sighed .
tomorrow morning we will go to the river .
i will summon moog .
then your training will begin .
the boy smiled .
good , uncle .
i want to get started .
arii jumped , returned to the garden and resumed his weeding .
nerza followed him .
the day passed .
they continued to tend the garden and the apple tree ripened its apples .
his thoughts lay on that thing he and the other wizards created .
they then moved to that other wizard , the one filled with evil .
nerza wondered if he truly was doing the right thing .
the morning sun found the two standing on the bank of the river nehru .
nerza watched the water as it flowed by .
a fish smacked the top , grabbing some insect unfortunate enough to land near its watery lair .
fragrances of clear , running water and the moss covered rocks filled the air .
he glanced at arii whose eyes were sparkling with anticipation .
nerza withdrew his wand , stooped down and placed the tip in the water .
he chanted a spell and then stood up .
they would have to wait for moog to answer the call .
they did not have to wait long .
in the deep part of the current , a shadow appeared .
the shadow broke the surface and the silver face of a nix emerged .
he approached the bank , his feet struck the bottom , and he began to walk .
when he reached the wizard and boy , he looked at nerza .
so you have the boy .
is he ready to learn the magic of the order of the encircling waters ?
yes , said arii , before nerza could answer .
i want to learn .
the nix smiled .
i see he is anxious .
that is the sign of a good student .
i cant wait to begin , said arii .
i will leave him in your capable hands , moog , said nerza .
train him well .
moog nodded and nerza departed , leaving the nix and the boy standing on the riverbank .
moog sat down in the water .
we nixes can not abide on dry land very long .
we can breathe the air , but our skin dries out .
we must return to water periodically to refresh our bodies .
i have never seen a nix before .
are there many of you ?
moog nodded .
we inhabit every large river and lake in island world as well as the encircling seas .
we do not allow humans to see us much , as they hate us and fear us .
they try to kill us when they can .
what do i need to learn from you ?
moog swirled his feet in the water and looked at the boy .
the magic of our order is difficult for humans to learn .
on dry land our powers leave us except for our telepathic powers .
immersion of some part of our bodies in water imparts the rest of our magic powers .
it is for this reason that humans have difficulty learning our magic .
most humans hate and fear the water and can not long abide under the surface .
moog paused as he submerged his head to breathe in the refreshing waters .
he reemerged .
we nixes do not talk underwater .
we use mind talk .
i will teach you how to do this .
when i learn that , can i read other peoples minds ?
moog smiled .
no .
you can only communicate with others who have the same skill .
their minds are open to you , but only to the extent that they wish to reveal them .
a wizard of the golden star will be able to detect you and communicate with you .
you will also be able to communicate with any nixes that open themselves to you .
arii stepped into the water , feeling the rocky bottom with his bare feet .
it will be best if you undress , said moog .
clothing in the water will weigh you down .
it is an unneeded encumbrance in our world .
arii got back on the bank and disrobed , laying his clothing on a rock near the waters .
he stepped back into the waters and felt the cold water flow over his body .
he looked at the nix .
what else will i learn ?
you will need to control your breathing and develop your lungs .
using our magic you will be able to hold your breath for long periods .
during these underwater periods you will need to learn to slow your bodily functions down .
it is important to learn to stay perfectly still , to increase the time that you can stay underwater .
arii nodded .
i can do that .
another smile played across moogs face .
it is not an easy skill to learn .
you humans have a dread of water .
you will have to fight your own impulses to stay under water for long periods .
you will have to learn when you reach your limits .
when the air in your lungs runs out , it will do so quickly .
if you do not know when to surface , you will pass out and drown .
the cold water was penetrating ariis body .
he began to shiver .
you will learn to control that as well , arii .
it will be a part of your training .
is that all i need to learn ?
moog shook his head .
no .
you will learn another spell , a spell which is difficult and can not be learned if you do not master the first two .
what is this spell ?
you will have to sit on the rivers bottom and reach out with your mind .
when you connect with an underwater creature , such as a fish , you will have to exert your control over it .
you must force it to come to you and eat out of your hand .
that sounds difficult .
it is very difficult .
most wizards are only able to control a very small fish for a short period .
if you master that skill , we will accept you into our order .
you will then be one of us .
arii stood up .
i am ready to begin .
i see you do not daunt easily , said moog .
that is good .
you will need courage and wisdom to complete your training .
i see you have courage .
we will find out if you have wisdom .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents trial by water time , like the river nehru , flowed by .
arii climbed out of the waters .
the next day would be his fourteenth birthday and excitement swelled through the youths body .
two years of intense training were behind him .
he stood on the riverbank and turned to look at the impassive face of moog who was standing waist deep in the river .
arii , your apprenticeship is at an end .
tomorrow you will face your test .
you have done well so far , showing mastery of the skills i have taught you .
at dawn , you will have the final test that will consist of three trials .
if you pass all three , you will be eligible for the rite of investiture into the order of the encircling waters .
i will meet you here , when the day star rises .
be ready .
at this , moog slipped beneath the water leaving the young man alone on the bank .
arii turned his steps towards his home , as he had done every other day of his training .
the news would pleas nerza , as it had been a difficult task , this learning the magic of the water folk .
his mastery of mind talking took a long time .
repeatedly he had managed to connect with moogs mind , only to have it broken by distraction , fear or loss of faith .
finally , he did it .
if that seemed hard , learning to still his fears to submerge for ever longer periods was harder .
mastery of his body took many weeks .
the fear of drowning almost overpowered his senses many times .
finally , he was able to remain under water , sitting on the bottom watching the fishes swim past him .
combining the two skills took more time and much effort .
the effort involved in performing the magic shortened his underwater time .
this made connecting his mind to the creature difficult .
time after time he connected , only to feel the burning in his lungs force him to the top , his task unfinished .
after many days and many trials , he finally succeeded .
his mind melded with a fish and he compelled the animal to swim in circles around him .
he even fed from his hand as he watched a smile on his young face .
a different situation loomed tomorrow .
three other wizards of the encircling waters would be on hand to watch .
if he made any mistakes or failed to complete any of his appointed tasks , they would vote him down .
his dream of becoming a wizard of the golden star crushed .
all his work and toil was on the line .
each day he labored under moogs direction .
each night he returned to nerzas cottage exhausted and hungry .
he would eat and then fall into bed .
each day he had arisen early , and gone to the river before moog came to fetch him .
he thought of the spell he devised and practiced in secret .
it involved magic that moog had not taught him , magic he had made up on his own .
it was a dangerous spell , but if it worked , it would impress the judges .
when they saw it , they would have to admit him .
on his birthday , the judges would confer on him the rite of investiture of the order of the encircling waters .
he was sure of it .
he and nerza were there , at dawn , waiting at the edge of the river .
four shapes emerged from the river .
a thought from moog nudged his mind .
are you ready ?
arii looked at moog and nodded , icy tentacles of fear clutching his bowels .
i am ready .
he directed the thought towards the nixes , which smiled and bowed as he implanted the words .
greet your uncle .
until this moment , moog forbade arii to use his skill with nerza .
he turned to face his uncle and he reached out with his mind .
will you come with me , uncle nerza ?
the wizard nodded .
i will .
the thought , as it entered ariis mind , gladdened him .
he and nerza disrobed and entered the water and they swam to a point in the middle of the river .
below us lays the site of the examination , said moog .
you have passed the first test , demonstrating the ability to communicate with multiple nixes and a human .
the nixes all nodded .
he has indeed passed the first test , said one .
let us proceed .
they dove into the water .
down and down they swam until they found the bottom .
nerza felt the tug of the rivers current as it sought to carry him with it .
five rocks formed a circle on the bottom of the river .
nerza sat on one , and assumed a sitting position with his arms folded in front of him .
he sat very still , his eyes focused on arii , at the center of the circle of rocks .
one of the nix wizards sat near nerza and leaned towards him , seeming to whisper in his ears .
arii drifted down to the bottom and sat , his arms folded in front of him , his feet drawn up and tucked into his knee joints .
he curled into a ball , reducing the amount of skin in contact with the cold water .
with closed eyes , he sat for a long time , focusing his mind on slowing his bodily functions .
he could feel his heart rate slow .
the gentle beating became slow and regular .
the pressure on his lungs eased as the demand for oxygen lessened .
he concentrated on his blood , forcing it out , near the skin , forming a protective shield around his body .
he felt his body warm .
the risk of hypothermia diminished .
many minutes passed .
the minutes stretched into an hour , and still arii waited .
his lungs were beginning to burn and the cold fingers of fear reached into his mind .
still he waited .
images began to form in his mind .
then it seemed a huge black hole opened in front of him .
he felt himself drawn into that hole .
finally , he felt the touch on his mind he had hoped to find .
you have passed the second test , arii .
now it is time for you humans to rest .
you will surface and return to your uncles home .
return when the daystar stands directly overhead .
arii unbent himself and felt the stiffness of his joints .
he and nerza surfaced and returned to the shore .
arii lay a long time on a rock by the shore .
his lungs could not drink in the air fast enough .
at last , he recuperated .
he looked at his uncle and asked , how is it that you are not exhausted ?
you were down there as long as i .
his uncle smiled .
there are still some mysteries for you to unfold , arii .
the nixes have ways of preserving life in us surface dwellers .
it is something you will discover in time .
they walked in silence to the road , then to nerzas stone cottage .
you have done well , nephew .
the words touched ariis mind .
he reached out to his uncles mind .
thank you , uncle nerza .
they entered the cottage .
arii kindled a fire while nerza retrieved some cold roasted lerfs from the storage pail in the well near the garden .
they heated the lerfs and nibbled on greens that nerza had gathered the previous evening .
you have not told me much about my parents , uncle .
it has pained me to speak of your mother , arii .
we were close until she married your father .
he did not like wizards so he did not like me .
her death created darkness on my soul that i did not wish to explore .
tell me about my mother .
i was so small when she died , i do not remember much about her .
her face is fading from my memory .
nerza got up and removed the pan containing the lerfs .
the water steamed when he removed the lid , releasing the savory fragrance of the roasting meat .
you come from a long line of wizards , arii .
your mother was of the exalted order of healers , as was our mother .
your father forbade her from practicing her craft .
our father was a member of the order of the winds .
our grandparents were wizards , also .
our grandfather , calan , was of the order of the golden star .
why was my grandfather not also of that order ?
nerza took a bite of the hot meat and chewed slowly .
his eyes were thoughtful from memory .
your grandfather almost drowned when he was young .
he carried a fear of water his entire life .
he could not endure the training of the order of the encircling waters .
because of that , he could never be a member of the order of the golden star .
are there other wizards in our family ?
i have a sister in law in the town of cleery , at the mouth of the nehru river , where it pours its waters into the sea .
she will be your last stop on the way to becoming a wizard of the golden star .
i have an aunt ?
not exactly .
she was my brothers wife , your uncle , many years ago .
he died in a hunting accident .
she remarried , but gwaum took her second husband .
why will she be the last ?
nerza glanced at arii .
i have my reasons .
he got up and walked to the window .
the sun is at zenith , nephew .
we must return to the river .
again , they sat at the bottom of the river , with arii in the center of the watching nixes .
nerza sat behind him , and again a nix wizard sat near and leaned towards nerza .
moog arose and looked into ariis eyes .
it is time for the last trial .
you must now cast a spell on a water creature .
you must force it to eat from your hand .
moog swam over to arii and extended his hand , placing a small dead fish in his palm .
arii stood and looked about and finally located the object of his search .
a group of smooth skinned bristlefish lay on the river bottom , heads facing upstream .
arii directed his mind to the closest one , a huge fish .
he felt himself enter the creatures brain .
in a moment the fish began to stir , then arose from the bottom , raising a swirl of mud as it swam towards arii .
it entered the circle of nixes and stopped in front of the boy .
arii extended his hand and opened the palm .
the fish , with an intake of water , vacuumed the fish from ariis hand .
that is good arii .
the trial is over .
it is time for the gathering to vote .
the effort of the spell had drained energy from ariis body .
he began to feel the burning in his lungs which indicated that his time underwater was about to end .
now it was time for the final touch .
it would be a spell that would cement his chances of admittance to the order .
he reached out and touched the fish .
he focused his efforts .
there was no turning back now that he had started .
he could feel the beginning of the blackness .
this was draining the last oxygen from his system .
he could not last longer .
then he saw it .
a bubble of air began to form behind the fishs gills .
it grew as the fish worked its gills harder .
it was now large enough for arii to climb on the fishs back .
he inhaled air .
he had done it .
he had forced the fish to breathe for two , and to form an air bubble for him to breathe .
now he commanded the fish to swim .
the fish swam downstream a short distance .
arii commanded the fish to return .
the fish stopped , and slowly turned about .
he rode the fish back to the center of the circle of nixes , who were staring at him with surprise in their eyes .
he looked at his uncle .
fear coursed through his body .
as he finished his trial , the nixes had started to ascend to the surface .
so surprised were they by ariis magic , nerza was forgotten .
seeing arii perform this last bit of unexpected magic drained the oxygen from nerzas lungs .
he , unseen by the nixes , began to float downstream .
nerzas eyes were open , bubbles beginning to sputter from his mouth and nose .
none of the nixes looked at nerza .
they were unaware of his peril .
arii commanded the fish to swim towards his uncle , caught by the current and drifting downstream .
arii neared his uncles body and reached out .
he caught his hair and pulled him into the protective envelope of air .
nerza gasped and his eyes opened .
do not let go , uncle , said arii .
we must ride to the surface where we will be safe .
the bristlefish , at ariis command , swam upwards , followed by the four nixes .
they broke the surface .
the fish slipped away .
the nixes grasped the boy and the man and pulled them towards the shore .
the uncle and nephew clambered ashore and both collapsed face down on the huge rock on which their clothing lay .
out in the water , the huge bristlefish drifted on the surface of the water , working its gills rapidly as it regained its strength .
after several minutes , the fish , with a splash as its tail broke the water , dove back down into the depths .
arii rolled over , and the sun glared in his eyes .
he could see the face of moog staring down at him .
where did you learn that spell ?
arii sat up , water running down his face and dripping off his chin .
i made it up .
i used portions of things you taught me and made up the rest .
that is amazing .
no human has ever done anything like that before .
nerza sat up and stared at his nephew .
it seems you saved my life , nephew .
that was an incredible work of magic .
does that mean i have passed the trial ?
moog glanced at the assembled nixes .
it is time to vote .
the three all nodded in agreement .
you have each already chosen your pebbles .
a white pebble indicates the applicant has passed .
a black pebble denotes failure .
moog held his hands cupped together and walked to one judge at a time .
each chose a pebble and dropped it into moogs clasped hands .
when the last pebble fell , moog walked back over to arii .
he opened his hands .
three white pebbles glistened in the sun .
arii had passed the trial .
moog faced arii his hands pressed together , palms touching .
tomorrow when the day star rises , we will meet at this spot .
we will go again to the place of testing for the rite of investiture .
you have done well , young student .
at this , the nixes descended beneath the waves and disappeared , leaving the uncle and nephew naked on the rock .
one last time , arii stood in the circle of stones in the murky water of the river .
he felt almost that he was in his natural element .
moog stood before his student .
we will keep this short .
the words entered his mind .
you humans have had a difficult day under water .
your endurance is less and it weakens your bodies .
clasp your hands in front of you , said moog .
arii did as moog commanded .
the nixes gathered about him .
each placed his right hand on ariis clasped hands .
we find that the applicant has satisfied all the requirements of the order of the encircling waters .
the wizards of the induction assembly hereby admit the applicant into our exalted order at the level of master of the waters .
arii looked at moog in surprise .
master of the waters ?
moog nodded .
you have demonstrated a level of magic which surpassed apprentice .
we have decided to ignore precedent and elevate you to a level never achieved by a human .
you are now one of us .
as a token of your investiture , we give you this .
moog handed him a clear vial , secured to a silver chain .
what is this , moog ?
it is a vial filled with the waters of all the rivers of island world as well as waters from the encircling sea .
take it as proof of your induction into our order .
arii smiled and bowed .
the nixes smiled and bowed in return .
at this the circle broke .
arii was now a member of the order of the encircling waters .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents a request granted the sun was casting long shadows as it descended towards the western horizon .
nerza opened the door to the cage that housed his prized flock of yuhma birds .
the birds fluttered towards the door , cooing in anticipation .
nerza did not disappoint them as he emptied his wooden scoop of grain into the feeding bins .
he stepped back and watched the birds peck at the grain .
the training and use of yuhma birds was a specialty of nerzas .
the birds had a peculiar ability to find their home , even if released hundreds of miles away .
the wizard had taken advantage of this ability and developed it further .
through training and a special form of magic he had , developed nerza could use the yuhma birds as a communications system .
he could send a bird to a person anywhere on island world .
the bird would find the recipient and deliver the message .
the recipient could then write a reply and tie it to the birds leg and release it and the bird would return home .
the only weakness in his system was that nerza had to know the person he to whom he sent it .
it was a good system and it had served him well during this time of gwaums dominance of island world .
he glanced at the setting sun .
arii would be returning home soon .
he was proud of the boy and his achievement .
a couple of months had passed and summer was waning .
nerza had let the boy enjoy his new skills and rest from his endeavors .
the lad spent so much time in the river , riding that bristlefish and spending time with the nixes , he expected the boy to try to grow gills .
he smiled at the thought , but time was passing and he wanted to get the boy to his next mentor before winter .
a shadow passed overhead , and he looked up .
the bird he had sent out a few days ago was returning with his answer .
the bird circled twice and descended .
nerza held his hand up , index finger extended .
the bird lit on his finger and cooed in greeting .
ahh , little brin , you have returned .
let us see what answer you have brought to me from nahru .
as he untied the leather cord that secured a note to the birds leg , he heard footsteps behind him .
he turned to see arii , a smile on his face , running towards him .
uncle nerza , moog has consented .
he will grant my request .
arii loved the time he got to spend underwater and the bristlefish was a perfect mount .
the spines that extended from each side of the fishs mouth were ideal places to hold on to the fish .
he had fashioned a sort of saddle for the fish that he could fasten to the back with a strap .
the saddle held the dorsal spine down and had another strap with which arii could fasten himself to the fish .
he could unbuckle the saddle quickly to release himself from the fish when it became exhausted .
after about an hour , the effort would exhaust the fish and arii would then release the saddle and swim to the surface .
during this time , he joined in games with the young nixes while they cavorted in the river .
he made many friends among the nixes and the word of his presence among them spread throughout the various clans of nixes .
cerna , a young nix about ariis age , and he became best friends .
together they shared many underwater adventures .
his mentor , moog , watched the young human as he swam among his kind .
this lad was a unique human and he trusted him in a way that he never trusted humans before .
nixes and humans did not intermix much .
there had been unions from which hybrid children had been born .
nixes usually tried to avoid humans as much as possible , though .
the humans feared the nixes , thought them monsters and tried to kill them when they saw them .
this created a fear of men among the nixes and nixian attacks on humans were not unknown .
there was much enmity between the two races .
arii noticed that the water was darkening , a sign that the day star was waning .
his fish was showing signs of tiredness , so soon he would have to return to the surface .
he watched moog approach .
he noted the look on his face and he knew .
he was granting his wish .
moog swam to the boy and swam beside him .
their minds touched .
i have given your request much thought , arii .
we nixes have discussed it and we have agreed .
tomorrow we will allow you to visit our city .
something we have never done for a human .
arii smiled .
oh , moog , that is great .
a rare smile touched the nixs face .
tomorrow at the rise of the day star , come to the river .
you will not need your fish .
but how will i be able to spend much time in your city without my fish ?
i can not breathe underwater .
again , moog smiled .
there are still some mysteries about us nix wizards that you do not know .
tomorrow i will reveal another of our secrets .
with this , moog swam off , leaving arii to his thoughts .
he reached under the fish and released the saddle .
in a minute , he was bobbing at the surface .
he swam to his rock , climbed out and dressed .
then he scaled the bank to the road and ran to his uncles house .
his uncle nerza would be tending his birds , so arii ran along the house to the garden and grassy area behind the house .
he saw his uncle , a yuhma bird on his finger and a small , rolled up parchment in the other .
his uncle heard him and turned .
when he saw arii , his face lit in a smile .
uncle nerza , moog has consented .
he will grant my request , cried arii .
he will take me to their underwater city tomorrow .
i get to see where the nixes live .
the smile on his uncles face grew broader .
that is good news , arii .
you have wanted this for a long time .
arii nodded in excitement .
i finally get to see where my friends live .
he told me i dont need my fish .
how will i live underwater long enough to see their city ?
nerza turned to put the bird that occupied his finger in the cage .
he closed the door to the cage and said , moog has a surprise for you , so i will not spoil it .
there are things about the nixes that you will learn .
they are a surprising folk , the nixes are .
there is much that i do not know .
arii looked at the parchment that nerza was unrolling .
he waited for the wizard to read it .
what is it , uncle ?
what does it say ?
it is a reply from the wizard zaleb toone , in nahru .
he is a wizard of the order of the winds .
he has consented to mentor you and teach you the ways of that order .
arii studied his uncles face .
nahru , he said .
where is that ?
it is far away in the kingdom of naul .
i dont want to go far away , uncle nerza .
i want to stay here , with you and my friends .
nerza looked into ariis eyes .
you will have a lifetime here , at this stone cottage after your training , if you wish .
but if you want to become a wizard of the golden star , you will have to go to nahru .
you have to learn the ways of the order of the winds .
i do want to become a member of your order , uncle .
i did not think i would have to go so far away .
i dont want you to go either , arii , but you must if you want to enter my order .
gwaum has devastated all island world and the people are in hiding .
our numbers decrease as the monster feeds on us .
all the more reason for me to become a great wizard , said arii .
i will destroy him .
nerza studied ariis face , noting the determination there .
you should not let your hatred of gwaum drive your ambition , arii .
hatred is a dangerous thing .
the monster killed my parents and my sister .
he kills people all over our land .
someone has to destroy him , or he will destroy us .
i mean to become a powerful wizard .
i mean to destroy gwaum .
nerza saw the determination in ariis eyes .
before , he had thought ariis quest was impossible .
the lad had a natural talent for magic .
he had an inner power that nerza had never felt before .
nerza had caught glimpses of that power .
it was a fearsome power .
that type of power had existed in ages past , but that power had not been benevolent .
island world had suffered greatly from it .
gwaums presence was proof of that .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents mualla the excitement arii felt grew as night fell .
he slept little and arose early , well before the sun .
he walked to the river and awaited the arrival of moog in the darkness .
the stars kept a silent vigil as a gentle breeze played across the river valley .
the mists that played across the flowing waters carried the perfume of the flowers that grew along the rivers bank .
arii drank in the morning with all his senses , his young soul singing with anticipation .
a glow lit the eastern horizon as the sun approached , ready to begin its trek across the island world sky .
low lying clouds , illuminated by the nearing sun , cast a magnificent palette of colors across the morning sky .
a dark shape appeared in the waters off shore , and moog emerged from the waters .
are you ready to begin your journey ?
the nix asked as he stood before the waiting boy .
arii nodded , his face glowing with excitement .
then climb on my back , and we will begin .
arii gave moog a questioning look , and then did as the nix bade him .
moog turned and entered the water .
as the waters enveloped ariis face , a bubble emerged at the back of moogs gill slits .
the bubble grew until it encased ariis head .
you can do as i made the fish do .
arii cast the thought into moogs mind .
yes .
it is one of our orders skills , the ability to sustain life for two under the waters .
you , because you do not have gills , can not master one .
it is how we sustained you uncle during your trial .
that riddle solved , arii settled in to enjoy the rest of his trip .
where are we going ?
asked arii .
we are going to the nix city of mualla , at the mouth of the nehru river .
why is it so far away ?
arii could feel the question working its way into the nixs mind .
nixes do not need cities in the same way that humans do .
most of us do not dwell there .
where do you live ?
we live individually , or as families or clans in small natural caverns or homes that we have dug in the rivers bottom .
arii asked , how is it that i have never seen one of your homes ?
our homes we consider sacred .
seldom do we allow visitors into our abodes .
our cities are trading places and sites for our festivals .
we will visit mualla during the time of the summer star festival .
it is a wondrous thing to see .
the murky waters sped past ariis eyes .
the nix navigated through schools of fish , which swirled and danced out of his way as he swam .
arii could see the occasional dark outline of a boat overhead , and its shadow cast on the rivers bottom .
the river grew broader and deeper as they progressed .
moog stopped and pointed .
there , see that opening in the rivers bottom ?
arii could see a dark crevice from which issued a constant stream of nixes entering and exiting the fissure .
it is quite busy , said arii .
the festival attracts nixes from all over island world .
you will see mualla at its best .
without another word , moog plunged into the crevice .
instead of darkness that arii expected , they now swam in a large cavern illuminated by a soft , silver iridescence .
they emerged into a huge plaza , surrounded by giant orbs that radiated the silver light , bathing the plaza in its magic glow .
arii looked with wonder on the glowing orbs .
what is the source of the light ?
in the oceans there are clouds of organisms which glow with their own phosphorescence .
we gather these creatures and keep them in crystal globes .
they emit their light , illuminating our cities .
as arii gazed at one , the crystal glowed from the light of the creatures held within .
it was not a steady light , like the sun or moon .
instead , it shimmered , with bands of lighter areas snaking across dimmer sections .
it was a magical site .
nixes were swimming everywhere in his huge plaza which had several divisions .
over there is the mualla marketplace .
it is always busy with merchant nixes from the nehru and other areas of island world .
take me there , said arii .
moog swam into the marketplace .
he could see exotic fishes offered for sale , as well as other creatures he did not know .
other nixes offered exquisite jewelry adorned with shells , gems and stones .
he saw tapestries that displayed ornate patterns formed by colorful shells , stones and gems .
the myriad colors and workmanship of the jewelry , tapestries and other offerings dazzled arii .
now we will go to the festival , said moog .
they swam towards the center of the plaza .
in the center a huge column stood .
it was not a stone column , arii was certain .
it glimmered with a myriad of colors that seemed to move in cadence to some unheard music .
what is that column , and why do the colors move ?
in the deeps of the sea many strange creatures dwell , said moog .
small creatures of many colors compose this column .
the light from a sea lamp in the center irradiates these creatures .
they swim in response to the music .
what music ?
then arii saw a group of nixes whose hands and feet moved in unison , each with a grace not seen in land creature .
what are those nixes in the center doing ?
nixes love music and dance .
the nixes in the center are musicians .
the others gathered around are dancing to the melody they are playing .
but i can not hear any music , said arii .
that is because i am blocking it from you , said moog .
nix music is music of the mind .
for you to listen to its full intensity would be fatal .
its passion would overwhelm you .
arii watched the dancers and the musicians for some time .
i wish i could hear it , he said .
moog glanced at arii .
i will allow some of the composition to come through .
you will be the only human to ever hear nix music .
arii was aware of a growing hum in his mind .
the hum became a melody , a pleasing song , happy and full .
he found himself wanting to dance free of moogs constraints .
he wanted to be like those nixes , swaying and cavorting in the waters .
he almost let go of moog , who grabbed at him and pulled him back .
i am providing you with more than air , he said .
we are deep in the water , deeper than your body can endure .
the water pressure here would damage your body and kill you .
do not let go of me .
moog continued ariis tour .
he showed him the crystal chambers , a huge edifice constructed of crystal .
it is where our people gather to talk of important matters in the nix world .
we make many important decisions here , negotiating wars , trading rights and other matters .
arii saw that and many other wonders offered by the nix city of mualla .
moog sensed ariis tiredness .
it is time for me to take you back to your home , he said .
the daystar wanes and your uncle will worry .
arii gazed one last time at the glowing city in the cave as they swam through the opening and reentered the river .
can i come back someday ?
moog nodded .
you may , young wizard , when you have completed your studies and are a full wizard of the golden star , we will honor you here , in our city .
you are well known now among the nixes and they will be happy to welcome you .
moog deposited a tired and happy arii along the rivers edge .
thank you teacher for showing me your city .
i will always remember it .
moog folded his hands in front of him and bowed .
it was a pleasure to show you our city , he said .
it is my hope that nixes and humans can live together in peace .
maybe this is the first step .
moog turned and reentered the waters .
arii watched as the nix disappeared from sight .
he turned to see nerza standing at the edge of the forest , watching him .
it reminded him of his next step , the journey to the land of naul and his apprenticeship to the wizard zaleb toon .
he contrasted the magnificent city he had just seen with the scattered , fearful towns the humans of island world .
gwaums dominance did not extend to the water folk .
they were free to build wonderful cities and not fear the monsters ravages .
he felt the resolve harden within him .
he would go to naul and learn .
he would complete the rest of his training and become a powerful wizard .
then he would destroy gwaum and free the land .
then humans would be free to build cities and live without fear .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents wizard of the winds a weeks travel brought the wizard and the boy to the mountain of seven rivers .
arii stood on the summit of the mountain and surveyed the scene below him .
autumn was preparing her palette and had already touched the leaves of the forests below .
the sun stood at zenith .
a gentle breeze blew against his cheek .
it drove the pure white clouds before it , like huge white ships sailing on a blueberry stained sky .
the wind , tinged with autumns fragrance , caressed his face .
it is beautiful here , uncle , he said .
this is the most beautiful spot on island world , said nerza .
i have traveled many places and i love this spot the most .
arii turned in a circle , his eyes soaking up the sight .
there are seven rivers , indeed , uncle .
nerza nodded .
he pointed north .
there flows the meroon river .
it flows through the northlands , the land of ghrond .
to the east , you can see the groar river .
it traverses the barnish highlands .
to the east , you can see the ice mountains .
beyond them lies the ancient kingdom of napoli , now the land of gwaum .
arii gazed to the east .
those mountains are tall .
yet they do not protect us from the monster .
nothing protects us from gwaum .
where did gwaum come from , uncle ?
nerza sat on a rock and stretched his legs .
that is a tale you are not yet ready for , nephew .
when you have completed your training , i will tell you .
it is a tale of evil magic and tragedy for which you are not ready .
arii continued gazing at the immense , snow capped mountains .
just over those mountains the monster awaits .
what of the kingdom of napoli , uncle ?
has gwaum destroyed it all ?
it is said by the barnish who inhabit these regions that a thick , red dust covers the land .
they say only the white rock has escaped gwaums power .
what is this white rock , uncle nerza ?
nerza stood up and stood by ariis side .
it is the highest point in the ice mountains and it is the purest of whites .
legend says that the rock has some magical power that protects it from the monster .
the river fleet springs from its base and flows through the land .
but now the river is fallen from its glory , and is just a reeking ditch filled with stinking red muck .
ariis eyes now wandered to the south .
he could see the nehru river , whose course they had followed .
torne was beautiful in the noon sun .
to the southeast , he could see the courses of two rivers .
he asked , what are those rivers ?
the western one is the nonn , and it flows south through the tropical land of nuckland .
the eastern one , the firth , flows at the edge of the desert .
it ends in the kwauel marshes before flowing into the encircling sea .
nerza then pointed to the northeast .
that river is the meme .
it follows a rocky course through the mountains .
i have never been that way .
it has always been a wild , uninhabited land , even before gwaum .
to the east , arii could see the beginnings of the desert country .
a thin , blue line , hidden at times by shrubby trees and undergrowth that lined its banks , meandered through the dunes .
is that one our path ?
arii indicated the river with a wave of his hand .
nerza nodded .
we follow the aeol river as it passes through the desert until we reach naru on the coast .
that is the home of zaleb toon , my old , and your future , mentor .
have you visited these lands , uncle nerza ?
nerza again sat down on a boulder .
i have visited most of them in my youth , when , like you , i was completing my training .
only to ghrond have i not been .
nor have i visited the devastated land of napoli .
no one goes there , except an occasional barnish explorer .
some of these never return .
what sort of man is zaleb toon ?
he is a good teacher , but he will be tough .
you will again have three trials to complete to qualify for investiture .
it is not easy , nor will it be fast .
will you stay with me while i train ?
nerza shook his head .
i will stay a short while , but i must get back to my home before winter .
i will keep in touch with you by yuhma bird .
how long will i be there ?
it will take almost two years for you to prepare for the trial .
there is much to learn .
i will miss you , said arii .
i will miss my nix friends .
they will all be there when you return , said nerza with a smile .
he looked at the sun , now half way down to its rendezvous with the western horizon .
we will continue down to the river .
there are some old diamond mines there .
we can camp for the night on the bluff above the source of the river and in the morning we will continue our journey .
arii arose and put the pack back on his back , then followed nerza as he descended the trail that led down the mountain .
arii watched as nerzas figure disappeared into the distance , leaving him alone with zaleb toon .
arii had liked zaleb as soon as he met him .
he understood why nerza undertook the journey to bring him here , to this wizard .
your uncle is a great wizard , said zaleb .
i have mentored many wizards over the years and he was my best student .
have you mentored any more which became wizards of the golden star ?
a vigorous shake of the head answered ariis question .
the rigors of becoming one of that order are many .
a few have undertaken the training , but few finish .
and since the arrival of gwaum , fewer still are there who try .
uncle nerza says i am not ready to learn the story of gwaum .
zaleb nodded .
even i do not know the full story .
it is a story of forbidden magic and treachery .
few know it .
it involves a member of the order of the golden star who touched evil .
it involved your uncle .
he will tell you when he sees fit .
the two turned and walked back inside zalebs dwelling beside the river .
arii looked at the river through the window that overlooked it .
are there nixes in the river ?
zaleb smiled .
nerza had told him of ariis fascination with the race .
there are nixes there , indeed .
nerza has told me of your prowess with their magic .
he said that they inducted you as a master of the waters .
that is a level never attained by a human .
arii blushed .
i was fortunate .
moog was an excellent teacher who taught me well .
it is my task to keep you focused on learning our magic .
you will have little time for nixes while you are in my keep .
he ladled some stew that was simmering in the hearth into two clay bowls and handed one to arii .
arii blew across the bowl to cool it , and then asked , uncle nerza has never told me all that your order commands .
our magic entails the winds and the creatures that live in it .
can you control the weather ?
zaleb laughed .
no , our magic is not as powerful as that .
we can control the winds and the air around us .
you will learn to channel the air and command the birds and other creatures found riding the wind .
will it help me defeat gwaum ?
zaleb glanced at arii as he spooned a bit of stew into his mouth .
he studied the young man as he chewed and swallowed .
your uncle told me of your wish to destroy gwaum .
be careful of the monster .
he is more powerful than any wizard who has ever walked island world .
he has killed wizards who tried to oppose him .
your uncle is among those who have fought him .
uncle nerza has never told me that .
it was long ago .
he will tell you when he is ready .
when it comes to gwaum , do not be rash .
the wish for revenge is part of the evil side of magic .
beware of those forces .
they can do much harm .
he killed my family .
he destroyed most of mine , too .
arii looked at zaleb , questions in his eyes .
it was i who discovered your uncles potential .
our family used to live in torne , near the village your family lived .
i had a wife , daughter and a son .
the monster came upon us and destroyed our cottage .
he killed my wife and my children .
i fled here , to naru , to get away from his ravishes .
so the monster does not come here ?
yes , but not as often as he ravages torne .
here we are further away .
gwaum has decimated torne and is ranging further and further from his home in napoli .
he visited nahru some years ago and left it a smoldering wreck .
many died and most fled .
nowhere is safe on island world .
he goes everywhere .
how did you discover that my uncle was to become a wizard of the golden star ?
we were neighbors .
his father sent him to me for training as a wizard of the encircling winds .
he excelled in his lessons , much as you have .
i sent him to the nixes in the river for training .
he has fulfilled all our expectations .
who trained him into his order ?
zaleb finished his stew and leaned back in his chair .
his eyes fastened on the lad who sat opposite him .
you are full of questions .
that is a story your uncle must tell you .
he has not told even me of that ordeal .
ordeal ?
the wizard who trained him was a terrible , evil man .
but that was not known to us when we sent him to him .
who was this wizard ?
zaleb stood and walked to the window and watched as the river flowed by .
i will not discuss this wizard .
his own handiwork killed him .
i will say no more about him .
that is a story your uncle must tell you but not until you are both ready for it .
it is a miracle that your uncle did not turn to evil , himself .
outside the world was dimming , the sun was setting .
he turned to look at arii .
you should ready yourself for bed .
tomorrow we will start early and you will need your rest .
i will begin readying myself .
i need to study my books and scrolls .
i must decide upon a course of study , which i did not want to do until i talked with you .
at the dismissal , arii stood up and placed his bowl by the washbasin .
after cleaning his bowl , he went into his bedchamber .
exhaustion clogged his mind and already he missed nerza .
he worried about his training .
after a time , he slept .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents a great wand for a great wizard zaleb was preparing breakfast when arii arose and walked from his bedchamber .
a fire crackled in the hearth while a teapot whistled , and soon the rich aroma of fresh brewed tea wafted across his nose .
the sun was just peeking over the horizon , illuminating the treetops on the riverbanks across the river .
ah , young master , you have arisen , said zaleb as he glanced at arii .
arii walked to his side and stirred the pan of sliced meat that was sputtering and spitting in the hot grease .
i am sorry .
i guess i overslept a bit .
no matter , said zaleb .
the day is still young .
what will we do today ?
after we have breakfasted , you will have to find a wand .
after the meat cooked arii began pulling it from the pan with a fork and piling it on a platter .
zaleb cracked some eggs and slipped them into the hot grease .
the eggs spit and sputtered .
the edges began turning white as they fried .
arii picked up a spatula and waited for them to harden so he could turn them .
where will i find my wand ?
the thickets near the river have many trees and that is where you must search .
how will i know what to choose ?
zaleb plucked the cooked eggs from the pan with the spatula .
he placed them on top of the meat and carried the platter to the table .
they sat down to eat .
zaleb glanced across the table as he filled his plate .
it will not be easy to choose .
you must examine many trees , place your hands on them and listen to them .
when you find your correct choice , the tree will speak to you .
questions filled ariis eyes as he looked at zaleb .
trees can not talk .
ah , but the trees do talk if you know how to listen .
how do i know how to listen ?
the wind gives voice to the trees as it caresses their branches .
i have heard their voices then , but i do not understand their language .
zaleb smiled .
when you find the right tree , you will understand its voice .
it sounds difficult .
there are many trees .
it may be that you will have guidance in this matter .
pay attention to all that goes on around you .
the birds and insects can all serve as guides .
take your time .
this task may take several days .
but it is the most important choice you will ever make .
the nixes do not use wands , why must we ?
nix magic is of the mind .
they work long and hard to focus their thoughts , as you have found out .
the water serves as their medium .
we do not live in water and the air is not so conductive so we must use wands to focus our mind .
the breakfast finished , arii rose and started clearing the table .
never mind , arii , i will clean up .
you have a task before you .
it is best that you get started while your mind is fresh .
arii went back into his bedchamber and dressed .
he walked to the door of the cottage and looked out .
the sun was well up and the sky was clear .
choose well , young wizard .
zaleb handed arii a saw .
cut the whole limb and do not trim it .
bring the entire limb back here when you find what you seek .
then we will begin preparing your new wand .
arii stepped out into the day .
he walked into the thicket of trees that bordered the cottage .
he stopped to listen .
a symphony of birdsong met his ears , and a gentle breeze whispered in the trees .
which tree to choose ?
arii wandered among the thicket of trees , stopping several times beside a tree to place his hands upon it .
each time he heard nothing .
hours passed and the sun shone down through the trees .
it was now past zenith , and arii was growing hungry .
he found himself by the river .
a large willow tree grew at the edge of the river , its roots snaking into the murky water .
the trees branches waved in the breeze .
arii sat on a large root that extended over the water and took off his boots .
he dangled his bare feet in the waters , his mind deep in thought .
he had tried many trees .
the water oaks , with their strong wood and pungent leaves did not speak to him .
nor did the sweet sap filled acer trees .
discouragement added to his exhaustion .
none of the trees he felt would be the wand of a great wizard spoke to him .
he looked into the river .
his eye fell on a shadow moving in the deep water .
the shadow grew larger and soon a nix broke the water .
his eyes fastened on arii .
are you the one called arii ?
arii nodded .
yes , that is my name .
i am nond , of the river aeol .
moog has sent word to me that you were in our land .
i thought i might find you here .
do you know moog ?
yes , he is a member of my order .
we meet at council .
he has spoken highly of you .
thank you .
moog is a great wizard , and my friend .
moog is greater than you think .
have you found what you seek ?
arii shook his head .
i have tried all the great trees of the forest and have not found one suitable for my wand .
not one tree has spoken to me .
perhaps you have found what you seek , but have not asked the right questions .
what do you mean ?
the tree you sit upon .
have you asked it ?
arii looked up into the willows branches .
but this is a willow .
the wood is weak .
i want a strong wood for my wand .
if i am to become a powerful wizard i need a powerful wand .
nond smiled at these words .
power comes from within you , not from the wand .
perhaps you should ask the tree .
at those words , the nix dove under the waves .
arii watched as the shadow of the nix disappeared from his view .
arii stood and looked again at the tree .
he placed his hands on the tree and listened .
at first , he heard nothing .
then he heard it .
the tree was whispering to him .
he could feel the wind in the branches and the water in the roots .
he felt as one with the tree .
he let go of it .
there , just above his head , a branch emerged from the trunk .
arii took out his saw and cut the limb .
he put the saw away and held the branch .
somehow , it felt right , but it was a willow .
he was sure his choice would disappoint zaleb .
arii entered zalebs cottage .
the sun was setting in the west .
the tree frogs and the night birds were beginning their song .
i see that you have found a branch , said zaleb as he took the limb from arii .
he examined the limb .
that is an interesting choice , young wizard .
it is a willow .
i had supposed that you would choose an oak or acer tree .
arii looked at zaleb .
he could feel shame clouding his soul .
are you displeased ?
the willow is a weak tree .
does that mean i will be a weak wizard ?
a smile played across zalebs lips .
no , young wizard , you have chosen well .
the willows wood is weak it is true , but it is a wise tree .
it grows at the waters edge , so it lives in two worlds , the water and the wind .
its branches are flexible , they do not try to oppose the wind , they move with it .
the magic of the waters enter into its roots .
since it lives in the water , it resists the ravages of the fire .
its bark has healing power .
the willow is an excellent choice for a wizard who hopes to every order .
their qualities are all contained within this tree .
arii smiled .
then i have chosen well ?
you have chosen well .
it is straight and unmarked by blemishes .
the tree was healthy and strong .
this will make a fine wand for a young , powerful wizard .
arii smiled .
now , you must hold the base of the limb while i cut it to the proper length .
arii held the branch .
zaleb studied the limb , and sized up arii .
it must be of a length which suits your body size .
since you are not yet full grown , i must guess your ultimate height and arm length to get the right ratio .
after some careful calculations on a parchment , zaleb measured off a length of the branch .
he made a cut with the saw .
arii studied the branch , and then started to put it down .
zaleb restrained his hand .
do not let the branch go .
first we must prepare the wand , but you not separate from the wand for seven days .
arii looked at zaleb and said , i can not hold the wand in my hand for seven days .
in my sleep i will surely let go of it .
you will not hold it .
i will tie it to your body .
zaleb handed arii a knife .
shave all the bark from the wand over a piece of parchment .
do not lose any of the pieces .
arii took the knife and began shaving strips of bark , taking care to allow all the shavings on the parchment .
while he worked , zaleb began swung the teapot over the flames in the hearth .
the pot began to whistle at the same time that arii finished his task .
zaleb picked up the parchment , bent it and poured the shavings into the pot .
when the tea has steeped , you will drink the liquid .
arii examined his handiwork as the tea steeped .
after satisfying zaleb , he poured the tea into a cup .
you must drink it all , he said as he handed the cup to arii , who blew across the cup , to cool it .
then he drank the tea .
that tastes terrible , he said as he put the cup on the table .
there is medicine in the tea which will make your ears ring , zaleb said .
but any aches and pains which you have will disappear .
this is a good thing to learn , said arii .
you will learn that , and more , when you study with the healers .
i have much to learn , said arii .
the wizards of the order of the golden star are the most powerful wizards in island world .
it takes much knowledge and training to become one .
that is why there are so few of them .
few wizards have the desire to undergo the regimen .
a sigh escaped ariis lips .
i wonder if i will have what it takes to complete it .
zaleb smiled .
you will complete it .
i can sense a power in you that few wizards have .
i can sense your destiny .
you were right , my ears ring , said arii .
what do we do next ?
hold out your arm .
arii extended his arm .
zaleb took the end of the wand .
now , loosen your grasp , but do not let go .
zaleb twisted the wand around and positioned it on ariis bare arm .
he bound the wand to ariis arm with leather straps , tying it to the young wizards arm .
there , he said as he secured the last cord .
for seven days it must remain there .
the wand will attune itself to you during this time .
on the eighth day we can go ahead with your lessons .
arii rubbed the leather straps .
the seven days can not pass fast enough for me .
they will pass quickly enough .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents a small success arii chafed as the days crept by and on the seventh day , zaleb said , it is time , arii .
he glanced out the window .
it was the time of no shadows .
go outside and run .
work up a good , hard sweat .
arii stepped outside and began to run .
he sped along until he felt the perspiration dripping from his brow , and returned to the cottage of zaleb .
now you must undress .
after arii undressed , zaleb cut the straps that held the wand in place .
rub the wand all over your body , starting at your head .
miss no part of you .
arii rubbed the wand over his perspiring skin .
he held the wand , glistening with the moisture of his sweat , in his hand .
pluck a hair from your head .
arii found a strand of hair and pulled it .
zaleb handed the boy an awl .
drill a hole in the handle and place the hair in the hole .
arii drilled the hole and after some difficulty managed to get the hair threaded into the hole .
zaleb extracted a small amount of pine resin from a stone jar that he handed to the boy .
chew the sap .
arii took the small lump from zalebs hand , stuck it in is mouth and chewed , his face grimacing from the turpentine flavor of the resin .
spit it into your hand and use it to seal the hole .
arii worked the sticky substance into the hole .
one last thing , and we will finish , said zaleb as he pushed a cup across the table .
that is special oil which will preserve the wand .
use your fingers to work the oil into the wood .
arii dipped his fingers into the oil and spread if over his wand .
when he finished the wand glistened in his hand .
you are finished , said zaleb .
the wand is now attuned to you and your body .
no one else can use your wand , as you can use no one elses .
what happens if they do ?
if you handle a wand from a lesser wizard , you risk having your power drained into that wand .
if a lesser wizard handles it , they risk becoming overwhelmed by your power which could kill them .
can i put the wand down now ?
zaleb nodded .
you may put it down , but that wand will never be far from you .
for the rest of your life you will carry it .
you must make a sleeve to wear on your arm to hold it , or sew pockets on the inside of your sleeves .
it is important that the wand never be far from your hand .
your life , or the lives of others , may depend upon it .
you may spend the rest of the afternoon doing that .
tomorrow we start the real work .
the room was dimming as the sun sank in the west .
on the table lay a small sheet of parchment .
arii stood wand pointed , and closed his eyes .
zaleb corrected arii with a quick admonishment .
do not close your eyes .
you must focus your mind upon the parchment .
you can not do that if you can not see it .
i have seen nerza close his eyes when he casts a spell .
nerza is a master .
he sees through closed eyes .
he closes them to eliminate distractions .
you have not reached that level of control .
you must keep your eyes open .
with a sigh , arii again raised his wand .
he stared at the parchment and focused .
feel the air around you .
gather the air into your mind and send it forward .
say the words i taught you .
when all is in balance , squeeze the wand .
arii lowered his wand and sat down .
i can not feel the air .
i can not sense the parchment .
i can not do any of these things .
relax , said zaleb .
it is late and we have worked hard .
we will rest and pick up tomorrow where we left off .
i will never be able to do this , said arii .
yes you will .
the first spell cast using a wand is always the most difficult .
nothing is in accord yet .
your mind and the wand are still learning to connect .
your body is still acclimating to its power .
it took me many days to cast the first spell .
i dont know , said arii .
i just dont feel what you say i should feel .
i am hungry and tired .
we will eat , and then i will walk along the river , said zaleb .
you should go to bed and rest .
tomorrow we will work again .
arii slipped the wand into the sleeve he had made to hold it .
the sleeve was too loose , and he was afraid he would lose the wand .
he would have to make another .
the stew , which had spent the day simmering on the hearth , smelled good .
he looked outside .
he could see the evening star shimmering in the sky in the rose colored sunset .
arii stood and ladled a bowl of stew and walked outside to eat it alone in the gathering darkness .
he watched the stars appear , as by magic , in the black sky .
he could hear the hum of insects and smell the river .
he would be a great wizard .
he knew that he would .
however , he never dreamed that it would be this hard .
he drifted upwards into the sky .
he saw the clouds , gathered around him like white sheep , grazing in the blue sky , their fleecy white coats gleaming in the sun .
he floated among them and gazed down on the countryside below him .
he felt the wind at his back .
he sailed before it and saw island world , its mountains and rivers and deserts spread out below him .
never before had arii felt this free .
he reveled in the wind and the clouds .
he was part of the wind and then he was the wind .
he felt it flow around him and through him .
he flew through the wind .
he could stop , and fly against it .
the wind no longer controlled him he could control the wind .
below him , he could see zalebs cottage .
he felt himself drawn towards it .
the world became a blur .
arii awoke .
the world was still in darkness .
he rose from his bed and walked into the parlor .
the leftover aroma of the oil lamp flitted across his nose .
in the dim light of the awakening day , he could see the parchment lying on the table .
he felt the wand in the sleeve of his nightshirt .
he withdrew it .
it no longer felt alien .
it was a part of him .
he was a part of it .
he could feel his power grow .
he extended his arm and pointed the wand at the parchment .
around him , he could feel the air change .
he could feel it caress his skin , felt it enter him .
the wind filled him and flowed through him .
he felt its power increase .
it swirled within him .
it flowed down his arms and into his fingers .
the parchment on the table began to flutter .
then it began to move .
the breeze increased in intensity .
arii reveled in his new power .
he could control the wind .
then something went wrong .
the gentle breeze increased to a gale .
the parchment blew off the table , and the table flipped over and against the wall .
the window behind the table blew out with a crash .
the parchment flew out the window .
arii could not stop the storm .
he gasped as the air flowed out of the room .
he felt his lungs gasp for a breath that was not there .
furniture and dishes crashed as the storm blew through .
then all was blackness .
arii , wake up .
the shadows departed .
arii awoke to find the worried eyes of zaleb looking into his .
arii , you did it .
you moved the parchment .
arii sat up .
he looked around at the once neat parlor .
the room was strewn with furniture and broken crockery .
the lamp , broken , had spilled its oily fuel across the wooden floor .
he shook his head .
it looks as though i moved much more than the parchment .
zaleb smiled .
yes , you have made a mess , but you have succeeded .
you have become one with your wand .
you can channel the wind .
arii tried to rise , but zaleb restrained him .
you have made a big step , but you have exhausted your body .
you must rest .
the floor is hard , teacher .
i will help you to your bed .
the old wizard helped arii to his feet .
the room spun , and lights in his eyes flashed .
i can not walk , he said .
together they made their way to ariis bedchamber .
arii fell into his bed .
no more magic for you today , young wizard .
but i want to .
i have just succeeded .
yes , but your body and mind must heal and acclimate themselves to each other and your new powers .
today we rest .
tomorrow we begin again .
you must learn to control your power .
zaleb paused and looked out into the parlor .
but i think we will move outdoors .
arii smiled , and then closed his eyes .
his sleep was peaceful .
he dreamed of clouds and gentle breezes .
after arii went to sleep , zaleb went into the parlor and began cleaning up the mess .
he looked at the broken window .
the wooden wall of the house bowed out .
no worry , he could fix the wall and get the window repaired .
the boy had power .
more power than any he had ever experienced before .
this power worried zaleb .
even the most powerful of his order had never done anything like that on their first success .
if it stayed channeled for good , so much power would be a good thing , but the last wizard to demonstrate such power had not been good .
this was the source of zalebs worries .
the line between good and evil was so thin .
he sensed the hate arii felt for the monster gwaum .
it was this hate that drove arii , he feared .
zaleb did not like it , but he had brought arii this far .
not to finish the training now would be a bad thing .
arii would be free to develop it on his own .
his thoughts ran over ariis training so far .
moog was a good wizard and had been a positive influence .
his first work of major magic had been to save a life , not take one .
nerza was a good wizard , and he was powerful .
he had been the first to sense ariis potential .
he had guided him well so far .
that had not been the case with that other wizard .
this thought calmed zaleb .
he did not sense any evil in arii .
his heart was good .
the others heart was bad .
that was the difference .
at least that was zalebs hope .
the wind increased in intensity slowly , driving the tiny grains of sand before it .
a channel appeared in the surface of the desert , and grew deeper as the sand blew away .
that is good , said zaleb .
now slow the wind , and stop it .
arii , his face stiff with effort , slowed the wind .
the small sandstorm stopped .
now , focus behind the channel you dug , and fill it in .
arii focused his power on the wind .
sand blew across the channel , filling it in .
when the surface leveled , the wind stopped .
that was very good , arii .
you are learning to control your power .
that is enough for today .
arii lowered his wand .
he was exhausted .
i did not know that magic was so tiring .
you and nerza make it seem so easy .
zaleb smiled .
we have mastered our craft .
magic does exert a lot of energy .
you must develop the stamina for it .
you must do the exercises i taught you , to keep your body in shape .
fat wizards are rare sights .
i always wondered about that .
wizardry is much more than just practicing magic .
it is a way of life .
you must work to keep mind and body in sync at all times .
it is not an easy thing , magic .
what will i learn next ?
tomorrow we will work on creating a dust devil .
a dust devil ?
why is that next ?
the things you learn creating a dust devil flows into other spells .
it leads to levitating objects , creating wind shields and will apply to much that nerza will teach you as well .
so the dust devil is the basic skill for all the others .
sort of , but our magic power extends to creatures of the air as well .
you must learn to influence flying birds and insects and other creatures of the wind .
uncle nerza has used that knowledge to create his flock of yuhma birds .
zaleb nodded .
there is other magic involved in that skill as well .
no wizard of the winds could duplicate his feat .
that is the realm of the wizards of the golden star .
has he used also the magic of the nixes ?
zaleb shook his head .
that is a question i can not answer .
we can influence the flight of the wind creatures , but we can not influence their thought .
perhaps it is a mix of nix magic and ours .
i do not know .
i know i would wish to know it .
i am sure he will teach you that and many other things when you are ready to learn .
i still have two other orders to train with .
zaleb nodded .
the order of the eternal flame has much lore , also .
the exalted order of healers also has much to teach .
they know many things about the herbs and other growing things .
they know how to heal the body of hurts and maladies .
you do indeed have much to learn , young wizard .
i have completed almost six months training with you , teacher .
how much longer before i undertake to my trial ?
you are a bit ahead of schedule , young wizard .
perhaps in a year i will be ready to subject you to the test .
what does the test entail , teacher ?
i do not know , yet .
each wizard is different .
the rigors of the test for our order are usually different for each wizard .
it depends upon your skill level and what we feel you need to know .
if i do not know what the test entails , then how do i prepare for it ?
when you are ready you will need no preparations .
that is all you need to know .
arii said nothing , but his face displayed his puzzlement .
zaleb smiled .
you must have patience , young wizard .
you will do fine .
just learn your lessons and practice your craft .
that is the road to success , the only way you will find your path .
patience was not one of ariis characteristics and he was anxious to learn more so he could move on to the next level .
he sighed .
there was still another year to spend learning the wizardry of this order .
then there were two more orders to work through before nerza would apply the final push to become a wizard of the golden star .
no wonder there were so few of that order .
few men would live long enough to learn all that he needed to learn .
with a groan of frustration , arii readied himself for bed .
his dreams were of crying winds and dark , silent water .
such were his dreams for many long nights as the year of his training passed .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents wizard of the encircling winds confidence flowed through arii like a river .
he glanced at the three elders who would judge him .
zaleb and nerza stood apart .
nerza clasped his hands behind him as he watched arii , his eyes filled with pride , zaleb , arms akimbo , at his side .
arii withdrew his wand .
the test was at hand .
he stretched his arm before him and pointed it at the sand .
the wind swirled and grew stronger .
particles of sand , disturbed by the increasing turbulence , stirred and rose in a swirling dust cloud .
the whirlwind danced across the desert back and forth , in a seeming random pattern .
look , he writes in the sand , said nerza , pointing at the inscription that appeared on the desert sand below the dust devil .
it is his name , said zaleb .
he writes his name in the sand .
indeed , the script did portray the written characters of ariis name .
the whirlwind approached a cart , placed nearby .
the winds abated a bit , and then moved under the cart that had borne the elders to naru from their homes far away .
the horses , still hitched to the cart , neighed in nervous excitement as the wind danced under their feet .
the dust devil increased in intensity .
the cart began to shudder , then the horses and cart arose in the air .
higher and higher they went , until they were as high as a mans head .
then they stopped and rested a moment .
sweat trickled down ariis brow and dripped off his nose .
he reduced the intensity of the wind , and the cart and horses descended until they again touched the earth .
arii then advanced the dust devil towards him .
he felt the wind under his feet .
again , he built up the speed , felt the lift as he left the ground .
he could feel the power of the spell as it lifted him higher and higher .
arii , that is enough , his uncle shouted .
you are tiring .
you still have one trial left .
arii smiled , and let himself down .
the dust devil disappeared .
one of the elders bent down and picked up a cage that lay at his feet .
inside a crow chattered and squawked .
another of the elders opened the cage door and the crow emerged .
its raucous caws escaping its mouth as it emerged into freedom and flew into the heavens .
arii pointed his wand at the crow as it flew .
the wind around the crows wings changed the course of the crow .
instead of flying away , the crow flew back and forth across the sky above the assembled wizards .
it flew a loop , then a figure eight .
arii felt himself tiring .
the effort he expended during the trial of the dust devil was telling on him .
one last flourish , as he caused the crow to climb high into the sky , and then nosedive at the ground .
at a few feet above the ground , he released the spell .
the crow pulled itself from its involuntary nosedive and flew off .
its frightened caws echoing across the sands as it flew off into the distance , out of sight .
nerza began to run towards arii .
you have done it nephew .
you have completed the trial arii saw a dark shadow in the sky approaching from the sea .
it grew larger and larger .
the huge bird of prey was coming .
he had summoned the bird .
it was now time for his final flourish , an unscheduled addition to his trial .
the elders looked skyward , startled as a large bird appeared above them .
arii withdrew his wand and pointed it at the bird , who circled above him .
it was a craun , one of the magnificent birds of the eagle race who dwelt in the cliffs above the sea .
the craun circled above arii , who pointed his wand at the bird .
he felt his mind join with the birds mind .
his hours of searching and experimenting on the rocky coast of naul sprang to fruition .
he would succeed , or fail , depending upon his control of this terrible , ferocious bird .
the bird continued circling , drifting down with each completed arc .
the bird settled on the sand , facing arii , who continued holding his wand pointed at the bird .
he approached the bird , keeping his eyes fastened on the craun , who returned his gaze .
finally , close enough , arii touched the birds beak , and then stroked the beasts neck .
the bird folded his wings , stamped it feet a couple of times and emitted a loud , piercing cry .
arii moved behind the bird and threw his leg over the birds neck .
his mind and the birds locked in a tight embrace .
it was an embrace arii did not dare to release .
arii wrapped one hand around the birds neck his other still held the wand pointed at the birds head .
the bird danced , extended its wings and began flapping them .
with the young wizard perched on its back , the crawn flew in a low trajectory over the desert sands .
gaining altitude , arii soon found him self high above the desert , looking down on the astounded wizards .
now arii was becoming tired and felt his control over the huge bird beginning to falter .
he commanded the bird to descend .
the ground got closer and closer .
he was almost down when he lost his battle with exhaustion .
his mind lost its hold over the bird , which veered upwards .
arii lost his grip and tumbled off .
he was just a few feet off the ground when he fell .
he hit the ground with a thump , and rolled with the impact .
he landed on his back and found himself staring upwards into the faces of zaleb and nerza .
so that is what you were doing on those long walks by the sea , said zaleb , his eyes wide in astonishment .
again , arii , you have surprised us , said nerza .
always you push magic to its limits .
blasphemy .
the cry echoed across the desert .
arii stood and looked at the group of elders as they walked towards arii , who was getting to his feet , dusting the sand off his clothing .
the speaker , an old wizard named bran , looked at arii , disapproval flying like a dart into arii .
you have performed blasphemy .
i will not vote to approve you .
he has satisfied the requirements of the test , said zaleb .
he completed all the necessary steps .
but he joined our magic with that of the nixes .
that we do not do .
it is not the pure magic of our order .
zaleb glanced at arii .
clearly , this latest development worried him .
he performed each of your trials .
the last was not part of our trials .
he has violated the laws of our order .
we can not admit him .
the argument continued for several minutes .
arii watched , filled with horror .
he had not intended to endanger his admittance to the order .
he had only thought that his feat would cement it and bring him in at a higher level .
just like his feat with the nixes , but now it seemed like it would prevent his admittance .
his dream of becoming a wizard of the golden star was on the verge of disaster .
nerza crossed the sand .
bran stopped in mid sentence and looked at nerza , who towered over him .
did the boy complete the test ?
you have no right to interject yourself into our affairs , said bran .
i am , you forget , a member of your order also .
i became such many years ago .
but you are not an elder .
no , i am not an elder .
but i am a member of the council at their last meeting .
you can not be a member of our council .
you are a wizard of the golden star .
yes and as such , i am a full member of your order also .
i see that you were not informed of my ascension to the council ?
no , i was not .
you do not read your messages , then .
i sent one to you by yuhma bird a month ago .
as a member of the council , i remind you that the boy did complete the trial .
but that last demonstration was blasphemy .
was it a part of the trial ?
a shadow crossed brans face .
no , it was not .
then you will disregard that last spell when you make your judgment .
you will make your decision based upon the results of the test .
bran glowered at nerza .
it was plain that he disliked nerza , but also feared his power .
he joined the elders and they formed a circle , each with a hand on the shoulder of the wizard next to him .
the conference lasted several minutes .
we are ready to pass judgment , bran said , glancing at zaleb .
each held a pebble in their closed fists .
zaleb crossed the sand towards them and held out his cupped hands .
each of the elders dropped a pebble into his hands .
when the last pebble fell , zaleb walked back to arii .
he opened his hands .
three white pebbles gleamed in the afternoon sun .
arii had passed .
he was a member of the order of the winds .
zaleb then waved his hands above his head and said , the supplicant will please kneel .
arii knelt .
zaleb pulled a glass vial suspended by a gold chain from a fold in his robe .
he held it high above his head and looked at it .
then he lowered it and placed the chain around ariis neck .
this vial holds the breath of island world , collected from the summit of the mountain of seven rivers .
it is a symbol of your achieving membership in our order .
may you always wear it proudly .
i will , said arii .
thank you .
you may rise .
arii stood and as he did , zaleb said , as an elder of our order i now pronounce you a member of the order of the encircling winds .
congratulations , wizard of the wind .
arii and nerza smiled as arii accepted the vial .
only bran simmered in anger , but he could do nothing to change the outcome .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents the next step the early summer sun was low on the western horizon .
they had been climbing for a couple of hours when the summit of the mountain came into view .
we will camp here on the summit tonight , said nerza .
the weather is fair and there will be no storms to interrupt our sleep .
arii dismounted and began setting up camp .
there had been little conversation between the uncle and nephew on the journey to the mountain of seven rivers .
nerza watched arii , pride shining in his eyes .
he had spent the three days of their trek thinking .
he still had made no decision .
he dismounted and helped set up the tent .
after preparing the camp , nerza laid a fire and spat a spark at the kindling with his wand .
the dry wood kindled , and then burst into flame .
the orange flames danced in the gathering twilight .
when the fired burned to coals , they spitted a lerf that nerza had killed on the way to the top .
the roasting meat sizzled , and small flames erupted where the fat hit the coals throwing off a pungent fragrance .
the savory odor filled the mountaintop and sharpened their appetites .
i am proud of what you have done , arii , said nerza .
what you did with the craun i could not have done when i was at your stage of development .
arii glanced at the older wizard .
but you do not approve .
nerza shook his head .
combining the magic of the orders is something you are not ready to do , yet .
it is dangerous .
but i did it .
just because you can do something is not a reason to do it .
you have not acquired enough control to do that , yet .
it turned out well but many things could have gone wrong .
bran said it was blasphemy .
again , nerza shook his head .
it is not blasphemy .
he was jealous .
the lower orders can not combine magic .
it is not within their power .
doing that imperiled your acceptance .
i used all the influence that i have both political and magic , to change his vote .
you used magic on him ?
nerza smiled .
i see that it escaped even you , who are precocious beyond your years .
yes , i used a placating spell on him .
he did not suspect .
perhaps he does now , but it is too late and he has no proof .
the lerf was browning in the heat of the coals .
arii sat near the fire turning the roasting carcass .
he pulled it from the flames and used his knife to cut into the meat .
blood oozed from the slit .
it would need more time on the coals .
he placed it back over the fire .
could he rescind his vote ?
he could if he had proof i influenced him .
that he does not have .
you have nothing to fear .
i hope that you have learned a valuable lesson .
arii nodded .
yes , uncle , i have learned .
i will not do that again .
nerza stretched his legs out in front of him , allowing the heat from the fire to warm his feet , cold in the cool mountain night .
you can not always stretch the limits , arii .
when you are ready , and have completed the lower orders , i will teach you all that i know .
you will be a much more powerful wizard than i am .
responsibility comes with that power .
i will be responsible for saving island world from gwaum .
it is my hope to instill in you the difficulty of that quest , arii .
gwaum is the product of a powerful wizard .
one who , like you , that tested the limits .
his creation destroyed him .
zaleb and you have both hinted at that .
when will you tell me the story ?
nerza leaned forward and poked the coals .
a shower of sparks rose , crackling in the darkness .
he could smell the cooking meat .
it was a good smell .
when you have completed your training , i will tell you .
it is a sad , evil tale .
it is a tale of a wizard who reached too high .
he sought power and glory beyond that which none has ever held .
but his power , in the end , destroyed him .
arii withdrew the roasting lerf from the heat .
he again sliced into the meat .
we can now sup , uncle .
good , i am hungry .
it has been a long ride , today .
they ate in silence .
the night sounds of the mountain flowed across their campsite .
a distant owl hooted the howl of a narl and crickets chirped in the bushes .
the night sky , a black slate with silent , burning stars watching them , hung overhead .
where will i go next , uncle ?
i have not decided yet , arii .
next , you will study the order of the eternal flame .
it is the most powerful of the lower orders .
the most powerful ?
i thought that the order of the winds would be more powerful .
it is a powerful order .
you must attain the level of all the higher orders , but the order of the eternal flame requires greater skill to master .
they have mastery of the internal fires of the earth , as well as fire .
how many orders is there , uncle ?
there are many minor orders , though not as many as of old times .
gwaum has destroyed many in his rampages .
only five make up the higher orders , and the order of the golden star is , of course , the highest level .
who will you send me to ?
nerza stood , bent down and threw more wood on the fire .
it crackled with new life and the flames shot up .
there are two possibilities .
i have a friend in nuckland , a wizard named tyne , who would take you .
he is powerful , but has not much influence .
i have also considered the head of the order in truin .
his name is ander , and he is an old , grouchy man who does not like our order .
but he is very skilled and could teach you much more than tyne .
then i would like to go to ander .
then that is where you will go if he would consent to have you .
when would i go ?
i think you will need to rest in torne the rest of the summer and winter .
re acquaint yourself with your nix friends .
it may take some time , and many yuhma birds to convince ander to train you .
by spring you will go to either ander or tyne for your training .
nerza glanced across the fire at arii , whose features glowed in the flickering firelight .
he will not be an easy master , arii .
he is tough and mean .
he will not allow you to take liberties .
you must follow his instructions to the letter .
he will not hesitate to toss you from his abode and halt your training .
i understand , said arii .
i will obey him .
if i can manage to get you an apprenticeship with him , you had better .
save your antics for me .
arii smiled in the darkness .
i will have plenty saved up when i come back to you .
nerza kneeled and unrolled his blanket .
i think it is time to turn in .
check the horses .
i will see if i can find some more firewood .
his blanket unrolled , nerza lit the end of his wand and began searching the forested area below the summit .
the night passed and the wizards slept .
nerza saw no reason to hurry their journey as he reveled in the company of his nephew .
they camped on the mountaintop for two days , watching the roads and the rivers below them .
many tales nerza told arii of island world and the people who made up the lands , but the tale arii lusted for the most nerza did not tell .
on the third day , they rode and again nerza tarried .
after six days they rode up to nerzas cottage as the sun set .
they ate a light supper and both fell asleep in front of the fire .
nerza awoke in the dim light of dawn .
he watched ariis soft , youthful features as the boy slept .
a swell of pride thrilled his body as he watched his sisters son .
the boy was smart .
he could feel the welling power within him .
he remembered that time many years ago when he , moog and sluv for a moment held gwaum in their power .
his mind ached as the memory of that thing they created floated free .
had it found a home by now ?
or was it still floating around out there in the void ?
had the creature found arii ?
was it now a part of the boy ?
would he be the one ?
would he be the wizard to overcome gwaum and free island world from its hungry tyrant ?
nerza both hoped and feared that he was .
the boy was on a mission to destroy the beast .
that had been part of the spell .
nerza could only hope that he did not destroy himself as well .
the room was cool , and his bones ached from the long ride .
he arose and felt the coals .
there was enough heat left so he would not use magic .
he piled kindling on the coals after raking them into a pile .
he blew air across them with the bellows and watched as the fire sprang to life .
the wood crackled and popped as the fire grew in intensity .
thin , gray strands of smoke wound their way from the fire and wafted up the flu .
heat began to radiate off the massive stone fireplace .
that feels good , uncle .
sorry , arii , i did not wish to awaken you .
that is all right , uncle .
it is nearly dawn .
i want to eat a bit and go visit cerna .
that is good .
enjoy your friends .
i will use the morning to compose a message to ander .
do you think he will take me ?
i will do my best , arii , but even i do not hold much sway with ander .
he is his own man and does not take council easily .
nerza began fixing the morning meal while arii brewed mahfra .
soon the spicy fragrance of rian strips combined with the hearty aroma of mahfra .
nerzas stomach announced its readiness for the morning repast by growling and gurgling .
they ate their meal in silence , each of them content to nurse their thoughts .
after the meal , arii ran off to the river .
nerza got out quill and parchment and sat down to compose the letter .
it took most of the morning and many writings .
he glanced at the sheet of parchment , with the numerous phrases scratched out and new ones written .
arii , he knew , would not be back for lunch .
he would dine with the nixes on fish , mussels and other watery delicacies .
nerza ate some dried meat and chewed some of the dried fruit and nuts from the clay jar kept in the pantry .
his strength renewed , he rewrote the letter and left the ink to dry .
he went out to tend his yuhma birds and chose the strongest one .
the letter was heavy and he needed the birds strength .
he tied the note to its leg and sent it aloft with a chant .
he watched it fly away , carrying the hopes of a young wizard tied to its leg .
it was late winter and nerza was tending his birds in the twilight .
he heard the flutter of wings announcing the arrival of one of his birds .
he glanced at the bird as it lit on his wrist .
it was another reply from ander .
he hoped it was better than his earlier attempts , in which ander refused to train of the young wizard .
fearing the worst , nerza took the unopened note into the cottage where arii waited .
he opened the note and read the heavy handwriting of ander .
relief flooded his eyes .
he has consented to take you , said nerza as he read over the message from ander .
he expects you there by springs eve .
that is not much time .
is it a far journey ?
it is only a two day ride to truin , but it is still winter and the mountains will still have snow .
you must ready your things .
in three days we will ride .
how long will i be there ?
it will , like the others , be a two year apprenticeship .
two springs from now , you will be ready to take the trials .
then you will return here to prepare for your final apprenticeship .
will that be in cleery ?
if the wizard i have in mind agrees to it , yes .
then i will be ready for you to train me ?
yes , if you pass the trials of fire .
you must focus upon that , as it is not an easy task .
ander will be a demanding taskmaster .
i need not remind you to do exactly as he says .
he will not brook disobedience , nor going off on your own to practice unauthorized magic .
i will behave , uncle .
see to it that you do .
if you fail , there will be no second chances .
he is the head of his order and has great influence .
no other wizard will dare to take you on if he bans you .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents wizard of the eternal flame the old wizard pushed his spectacles down and peered over them .
distrust lurked behind those steel grey eyes .
i have been informed of your intransigence .
i will be watching you closely .
the statement conveyed the obvious dislike ander felt for arii .
it was plain that bran had been communicating with ander .
it was also plain that his report had not been favorable .
i will do as you instruct , teacher .
the grey eyes seemed to spit fire .
master .
arii sat up in his chair .
master ?
you will address me as master .
yes , master , said arii .
you had best follow my instructions , apprentice .
i have heard of your uncles manipulations .
that will not work with me .
if you show the slightest sign of disrespect for our order , i will ban you .
you will never attain your goal .
yes , master .
i will do exactly as you instruct .
ander folded his hands behind his back .
yes , apprentice , you will or you will face the consequences .
tomorrow we will begin your training .
i demand much of supplicants seeking to enter our esteemed order .
ariis eyes flickered with questions , but he did not speak .
the trial of fire will require that you prove three skills .
you will light a fire with your wand .
then you must learn to master the flames , allowing you to walk through those flames unharmed .
the wizard paused and again glared at arii .
what is the third trial , master ?
the third is the most important of all .
you must learn to conjure an image from the flames .
conjure an image , master ?
yes , an image .
you must conjure an image that moves and talks .
if you can do those three things , and if the eternal flame accepts you , you may to enter the order of the golden flame as an acolyte .
what sort of image ?
that will be of your own choosing .
arii had already decided that he did not like this wizard .
he imagined conjuring up a dragon that would consume the old tyrant .
a smile lit the face of ander , as though reading the thoughts of arii .
the image will not have any ability to inflict pain or suffering .
it will be an image only , generated by the flames , controlled by your ability to master them .
only a consortium of three wizards of our order may conjure a real creature .
invoke a real creature , master ?
is that possible ?
yes , three wizards of our order can conjure up a creature which can move and breathe .
it is a powerful spell , requiring much energy .
no one wizard can supply the needed magic to do this .
only one was powerful enough to do that .
at this , ander grew silent , his eyes brooding .
but i will not speak of that .
that wizard paid the price for his arrogance .
and we all suffer for his lust for power .
arii discerned more and more of this puzzle .
gwaum loomed into his thoughts .
was this monster the product of a powerful wizards misguided magic ?
ander shot a glance at arii .
i see that you know little of this matter .
that is , then , for your uncle to decide when and how much to tell you .
he shoved a scroll across the table , stopping it in front of arii .
this is your first assignment .
you must study this scroll and learn the spells it contains .
tomorrow morning we will begin your studies .
at this , ander strode from the room , leaving arii alone with the scroll .
he picked it up and unrolled it .
the language was strange , but he found that by studying it with care he could read it .
it consisted of complex incantations and mystical references .
this was for a simple spell ?
he envisioned a long , hard two years , toiling under the tutelage of this troll .
the seasons flowed past and arii studied hard .
one by one , he mastered the spells and learned not only to make fire , but to control it as well .
the day came , before the second springs eve of the beginnings of his studies , when ander summoned him to his sitting room .
again , he peered over his spectacles at the young wizard .
you have mastered the basic skills of our order .
in a week , you will face the trial of fire .
i have sent word to three elders of our order , as well as your uncle .
your trial will take place in the chamber of the eternal flame .
where is this eternal flame of which you speak ?
ander sat back in his chair .
it is a place of secrecy , beneath the city of truin .
it is the seat of our order .
in the chamber of the eternal flame , the flames of the earth appear .
that is all you need to know for now .
you must spend your time now preparing for your trial .
you must perform the magic without flaw or hesitation .
i tell you this because you are still struggling with the image of the flames .
your images fade in and out and are not realistic .
you have a week to master this skill .
at this , ander dismissed arii .
arii walked back to his small room in the castle overlooking the groar river .
he looked across the landscape .
the ruined city of truin lay below him , more destruction wrought by gwaum .
since that fateful day in his childhood , arii had not seen the monster again .
he had heard tidings of its ravages in nearby countries , but always it had been far away .
he always sensed the fear the monster evoked .
people lived in small , hidden villages or in isolated cottages .
large clusters of people drew the monster , who viewed such gatherings as an invitation to attack and feed .
he longed to get this trial of fire over .
he wanted to move on to the next step , with the healers .
he withdrew his wand and tapped it on the table with his impatient fingers .
he looked at the scrolls and old books strewn across the wooden desk .
the oil lamp flickered .
he had to focus .
he must learn to master this last spell .
he pointed his wand at the lamp and focused on the flame .
he could feel his power flow into the wand .
the small flame flickered .
he felt himself enter it .
an image of his childhood entered his mind .
above the glass chimney , an image began to form .
it was a faint glow , at first .
it grew in size .
the rainbow of colors that made it up flowed together , a kaleidoscope of colors that sparkled in the light of the lamp .
arii felt his body break out into a sweat .
his concentration began to slip .
focus , he told himself .
he poured more energy into the spell .
the colors began to coalesce , and flow into their proper places .
with a roar , the image came together .
the red monster stared at arii from its vantage near the ceiling , its shadow casting a black silhouette across the ceiling .
a single red eye bored into ariis eyes .
the monster raised its arms and screamed .
ariis concentration shattered and his chair fell backward .
he dropped his wand and his head hit the floor .
the monster hovered over him for a moment .
it extended its arm towards him .
he could feel its hand on his throat .
he twisted his body to escape the grip .
the monsters grasp grew tighter .
arii felt his lungs constrict .
the image he conjured was killing him .
this was impossible .
outside he could hear the sound of footsteps , coming closer to his door .
ander must not know of this .
arii felt for his wand , his fingers found it and grasped it .
he held it aloft and pointed it at the flame of the oil lamp .
the flame extinguished .
the fingers on his throat vanished and gwaum disappeared .
the door flung open and ander stood over arii .
what is happening in here , apprentice ?
what are you doing ?
arii stood up .
i leaned back in my chair .
it fell over .
ander peered into ariis eyes .
he read a different story than what arii told him , but what that story was he could not tell .
why is your lamp out ?
why are you sitting in the dark ?
i was practicing some of the basic magic you taught me at the beginning of my training .
i thought if i reviewed it all , i could see what i was doing wrong .
i thought if might help me master the last trial .
i was just going to light the lamp with my wand when the chair tipped over backwards .
ander folded his hands behind his back , continuing to study arii .
that seems like a good course to follow , he said .
it was plain that he did not believe arii .
just be careful .
do not ruin those chairs by leaning back on them .
with that , ander left the room .
arii pondered what he had done .
the image had lived .
he had tried to kill him .
that should not have been possible .
five days of agony passed .
arii did not practice the spell again .
for the first time he found himself dreading the examination which would admit him to the order of the eternal flame .
he thought of a thousand reasons to delay the trial of fire .
on the afternoon of the fifth day , his uncle nerza arrived .
after the embrace at their greeting , nerza held arii back , his hands on his shoulders and looked into his face .
arii , it is good to see you .
ander has said little , but since he has scheduled the trial of fire i would assume that you are ready .
arii avoided nerzas eyes .
i am ready , uncle .
nerza read the worry in ariis face .
what is wrong , arii ?
i sense that you worry .
no , uncle , everything is fine .
i am ready for the trial .
you had better be .
tomorrow the elders will arrive .
we have finished the preparations .
it is not every day that a supplicant enters the order in these troubled times .
i am ready , uncle .
i have performed all the spells .
i have practiced many hours .
nerza studied his nephews face .
there is something you are not telling me .
you do not seem excited about this important step .
it is nothing , uncle .
i have been studying hard .
i am just tired , i guess .
hmm .
you should rest , arii .
i will leave you now to do just that .
i want to visit the chamber of the flame .
it has been many years since i have done so .
nerza turned and left the hall .
arii returned to his chamber .
he felt awful .
he had lied to his uncle .
never had he done so before .
he would not disappoint nerza .
he faced the lamp that glowed on his table .
he raised his wand and focused on the flame .
against his will , gwaum again surged into his thoughts .
arii lowered his wand .
that was it .
he dared not perform the spell .
he was afraid that he would be unable to break the grip .
this time gwaum might kill him .
for the first time , this power he had worried him .
the references to that other wizard he heard flitted through his mind .
what if he was like this other wizard .
the others loathed him so much that others would not even speak his name .
what had this wizard done ?
was he the source of the monster gwaum ?
what would happen if he turned his power to evil instead of good ?
he wanted to destroy this monster .
what would happen if he strengthened him instead , or worse created a foul beast himself ?
arii lay down on his bed .
he studied the circle of light that danced on the ceiling above the lamp .
he thought about his problem .
always , the image of gwaum entered his mind when he tried to do the spell .
before , when he tried to do the spell , no image of any kind had come to him .
that was why the spell failed .
he did not focus upon a memory .
that was the key .
he needed to find another memory .
a pleasant memory , one he could control .
that was it .
that was the answer .
he searched for a memory , one that would supersede the memory of gwaum .
one more powerful , that he could pull up .
he must find some memory that not filled with terror .
his mind settled on a scene .
that would do .
he closed his eyes and focused on that memory .
sleep overcame him and he dreamed .
the sound of turning wheels and creaking rope broke the silence as they descended into the pit .
a powerful smell of sulfur pervaded the air .
arii watched the rocks of the passage flow up past his eyes .
the elevator ride to the bottom lasted a lifetime .
his hands were sweating and it seemed a flock of birds had invaded his insides .
nerza stood beside him .
he glanced up , to see his uncles smiling face beaming down at him .
the soft illumination of the glow of the lanterns at each corner of the car carried them to the bottom .
the apparatus finally reached the bottom .
the car stopped .
they had emerged into a huge chamber lit by a silver flame that danced in the center .
silhouetted against the flames four hooded figures loomed .
the lamplight from the car illuminated the dour face of ander , staring at arii .
darkness shrouded the faces of the elders .
welcome , supplicant .
the day of your judgment is at hand .
arii stepped off the car .
he felt his uncles hand on his shoulder for a moment .
then he stood alone before his judges .
are you ready to face the trial of fire ?
ander looked into ariis eyes , his eyes hard and gray in the soft light .
arii nodded .
you have entered the chamber of the eternal flame to face the trial which will decide your fate .
this is the seat of our order , the source of our power .
arii glanced at the silver flame , suspended in mid air , with no visible source for its energy .
far below us , the fires of the earth burn hot .
by our magic , we have raised this flame .
as long as it burns , our order endures .
when you complete your trial , the flame will either accept you , or reject you .
arii stepped to the edge of the precipice over which the flame hovered .
far below , he could see a bright orange light .
it glowed with a fire of the earth , the source of the power of the order of the eternal flame .
everything is ready .
you will now begin the trial of fire .
arii turned .
he saw a stone platform on which a huge pile of stacked wood .
he walked over to it .
he pulled his wand from his sleeve and pointed it at the base of the pyre .
the kindling stacked against the pyre began to smoke .
a small flame erupted and spread to the pyre .
the bonfire lit , filling the chamber with its orange glow .
arii waited for the flames to reach their fullest extent .
he stepped forward , still pointing his wand at the flames .
the flames parted .
arii stepped into the fire and strode forward .
he could feel the warmth of the fire all around him , but the fire did not bite him .
he emerged on the opposite side of the fire unscathed .
he had passed the first two tests .
he could start a fire , and control the flames .
he stepped back around to his former position .
he could feel all the eyes in the room fastened on him .
he had come to the most difficult part of the test .
he pointed his wand at the flames .
he felt around in his mind for the memory he wanted .
he located it and pulled it forward .
he could feel it swirling in his mind , down his arm and into the wand .
another memory surfaced .
it struggled with the first .
arii could feel the sweat on his brow streaming down his face , stinging his eyes .
the struggle continued between gwaum and the other one .
the conflict in his mind threatened to overwhelm him .
his head ached .
gwaum was winning he could feel it displace the other memory .
he felt it flow down his arm .
arii struggled against it .
the other became paramount , crowded gwaum out .
it resumed its journey .
the monster screamed in his mind , the cry resounding through his head .
then the other memory began to win out .
again , it flowed through his arm and out of the wand .
the fire flickered .
an image began to form above it .
colors danced and flowed .
the image began to take shape .
it was a twin image , the image of his parents faces as they smiled at him from the flames .
the lips moved .
we love you , arii .
we are watching you .
the image faded and swirled away .
you have done it , arii .
his uncles voice rang in his ears .
not only have you done it , you formed two images .
that is a difficult task .
arii turned to see his uncles face beaming at him .
he shifted his gaze to see anders .
the old grouch actually had a smile on his face .
you have completed the trial of fire , supplicant .
now it is time for the judging .
step in front of the eternal flame and into the ring of stones .
arii walked to the circle of stones and stepped to the center .
sheath your wand , fold your hands behind you and gaze upon the flame .
as he watched the flame , an orb appeared above it .
the sphere of blue fire arose and moved to hover over him .
the orb descended until it surrounded him .
he could feel its heat warm his skin .
he could feel it probing his soul .
the flame turned from blue to white .
then with a crack , it vanished .
our order accepts your application , arii .
you are now a wizard of the order of the eternal flame .
i award you the token of your accomplishment , a talisman of our order .
ander pulled from a fold in his robe a crystal that flickered with an inner fire suspended by a golden chain .
he placed the talisman around ariis neck .
wear our symbol with pride , young man .
few indeed have achieved its splendor .
arii turned to face his uncle , the crystal shimmering with flame on his breast .
his uncles embrace almost crushed his ribs .
ariis laughter filled the chamber of the eternal flame .
his road was nearing an end .
he was now a member of the three most powerful orders .
one more and he would achieve his goal .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents cirile the soft glow of the emerging sun painted the treetops a golden yellow .
the two riders cantered side by side along the road , breathing the spring scented air .
nerza glanced at the rider beside him .
arii was now seventeen , handsome and strong in the saddle .
silver clouds from his breath streamed into the cool morning air .
the heavy clip clops of the horses hooves echoed , as they rode .
who is this feraun that you are taking me to now ?
the question floated across the morning .
nerza leaned forward in his saddle and scratched his backside .
she is the sister in law i told you about .
arii glanced sidelong at nerza .
she is a healer ?
yes , she is a member of the order of exalted healers .
is she a powerful healer ?
she is powerful .
does she live alone ?
no , she has a daughter named cirile .
she is about your age .
she is the daughter of ferauns second husband , not my brothers daughter .
arii thought about this a moment .
it seems funny , but i know no girls my age .
you have been in the company of wizards .
there has been no time for girls .
i am looking forward to meeting this feraun and her daughter cirile .
you will like them .
cirile has entered training for the exalted order of healers .
from what feraun tells me , she will be a good one .
is the training hard ?
it is not as demanding as the other orders , but there is much to learn .
you will learn about the plants , and their uses .
you will learn to heal minor hurts .
it sounds like a holiday after the other orders .
you will not think it so when you are with feraun .
she will have you learning many types of healing teas and potions .
the forests and fields are full of many herbs .
you will have to learn them all .
what of the last test ?
the exalted order of healers is a loose knit order .
there are no elders .
they do have a council , but they have no final test , as the other orders do .
only the test that the mentor devises to make sure you know the healing arts .
you will have little use for your wand , as most of their magic entails the use of teas , tinctures and potions .
they are a peaceful order whose main purpose is to heal the hurts of others .
they now reached the outskirts of cleery .
many cottages lined the road , most ruined relics , uninhabited and forlorn .
the road dipped down , revealing a view of the deserted capital of torne , most of its buildings in ruin .
it seems that the reach of gwaum is long , said arii .
his first targets are the capital cities and royal families .
when he has destroyed these , civil order collapses .
gwaum has little resistance after that .
the people who remain hide in the forests and fields .
it is a hard life they lead .
so the king and his family have perished ?
it is said that a young prince survived the first attack and that he is in hiding somewhere in the forests above the city .
you do not know where he is ?
i do not know if the rumor is even true .
they entered a lane that led back from the main road , lined with buildings that are more derelict .
birds flitted from the overgrown lawns and wild creatures peered at them from the undergrowth .
a small stone cottage , better kept than most , loomed into view .
smoke curled from the chimney and the well kept lawn and garden .
as they rode to the hitching post along the lane arii asked , how is it that this one has escaped the carnage of gwaum ?
i have protected this one from the eyes of gwaum .
to him , it appears as ruined as the rest .
the ones who dwell within are safe from his ravages .
why can not you protect more cottages from him ?
there is a limit to my power .
using such a powerful spell drains my resources .
if gwaum were human i could use less powerful spells and i could deploy many more , but he has powerful magic which limits me to fewer spells .
they dismounted and tied their horses .
it is still early , said nerza .
they may still be at breakfast .
nerza banged the doorknocker , and an instant later , the door opened .
an attractive woman about nerzas age peered out .
the heavenly odor of food cooking on the hearth accompanied her .
nerza , we have expected you .
the two embraced , and then feraun looked at arii .
this , then , is the nephew you brag about .
ariis face reddened in embarrassment as he bowed her .
arii sensed movement in the room behind feraun , who said , come in .
breakfast is ready .
i am sure you two are hungry after your journey .
it is not so far , only a couple of hours , as you know .
nerza led the way , stepping into the parlor .
a young woman looked up and smiled as they entered .
arii could see that the attractiveness of the mother repeated itself in the daughter .
good morning , cirile , said nerza .
i see you have been busy preparing breakfast for us .
we have been busy , said feraun .
i hope you are hungry .
we are , said nerza .
then come into our little kitchen .
it will be a tight squeeze , but we should all fit .
arii sat next to cirile , who radiated with an unfamiliar scent .
he decided that the scent was quite pleasant .
nerza has told me you have done quite well with your studies so far .
two of the major orders have accepted you so far ?
arii nodded .
the girls fragrance was quite intoxicating .
he wondered just what he had missed , not being in the company of a young woman before .
yes , he said with a stammer .
i have been fortunate to have had good mentors .
i was quite lucky to have gotten as far as i did .
he glanced across at feraun , and then at nerza .
he hoped that nerza would speak , to take the center of conversation away from him .
nerza glanced at arii and saw his discomfiture .
he has done well .
and he is ready to begin training with the best healer on island world .
feraun smiled .
i am not sure about being the best , but i will do my best to train him .
she looked at arii .
are you ready ?
arii nodded .
i am ready , teacher .
i have already learned much , but am eager to learn more .
you will find our curriculum not as exciting as the other orders , but we feel it is much more useful .
our arts have saved many lives .
i am sure i will enjoy all that you can teach me .
ciriles arm brushed his arm as he ate .
an electric thrill coursed through his body .
she has magic of her own , he surmised .
it is a powerful magic .
feraun noted the look on ariis face .
she smiled .
we have prepared the guest cottage behind the house for you .
you will take your quarters there while you train .
you will stay with me over the summer , learning the plants , how to gather them and prepare them for use .
you will spend the winter preparing the potions and teas .
by next spring , i think , you will be ready for the rite of investiture , if you study hard .
i thought it was to take two years .
feraun shook her head .
if your goal was as a full fledged healer , it would take many more years , but your road is to take a different path .
i can teach you what you need in a year .
then you will return to your uncle and your real task begins .
the repast finished , feraun arose and glanced out the window that overlooked the garden .
you two go into the garden and sit while cirile and i clean up this mess .
in a few moments , we will join you with some hot tea .
we can talk and enjoy the morning .
nerza nodded and stood .
i think we will do that .
then i must return to my cottage and leave my nephew in your capable hands .
as arii and nerza strode into the garden , ariis thoughts were on the girl .
he was looking forward to this training time more than the other times .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents gwaum strikes a fire crackled in the hearth , warming a plump black and white cat that lay sleeping on the rug in front of the flames .
on either side of the cat , two figures rocked in wooden rocking chairs intent upon their studies .
the young man was making notes on a slate , the chalk echoing crisply in the quiet room .
the other figure , that of a young woman with flowing brown hair , was intent on reading from a thick , yellowed book .
outside , a cold , late spring rain fell , readying the earth for the plants to burst forth in bloom and growth .
the fragrance of the rich earth filled the air with a musky , earthy smell .
another figure entered the room , an older woman , also with flowing brown hair , which time had painted with streaks of grey .
she glanced at the two young people and smiled .
the presence of the girl had blessed her life .
she hoped , in the recesses of her mind , that the young mans presence would further add to her blessings .
she looked at the young man and spoke .
arii , i think it is time .
the young man looked up .
is my training over so soon , teacher ?
it has just been a year .
the look on his face belied his wish that the he could extend the time .
feraun smiled .
you have learned much of our lore , arii .
you have learned enough for me to allow you to enter the order as an apprentice .
but it seems i have just begun , he answered .
indeed , you have .
you have spent last summer studying the plants and have learned the most important ones .
you have learned their uses , as well as how to harvest them and prepare them for use .
you have used the winter well , learning to prepare teas , tinctures and potions .
you skill has advanced to a level most do not achieve after two years of study .
you are ready to go back to your uncle .
you are ready to begin the studies which will make you a great wizard .
arii rolled the scroll he had been studying up and tied it with a worn leather strap .
he glanced at feraun .
when will you invest me , teacher ?
i have just sent a yuhma bird to nerza with a message .
i will perform the rite in two days , at the zenith of the sun .
arii laid the scroll on the chair as he stood up .
what must i do to prepare for the test ?
again , feraun smiled .
there will be no test .
you have satisfied my requirements .
you cured ciriles headache and prepared my rheumatism medicine .
and the potion you prepared for chirr , here her eye wandered to her beloved black and white cat , cleared up her infected eye .
you are ready .
thank you , teacher .
i will always treasure the time you and cirile gave to me .
it is not the end , arii .
you will always be a welcome visitor at our hearth .
cirile flashed a smile at arii .
yes , arii , you are .
you must come back to see us .
often , i hope .
arii blushed as he looked at the girl .
his thoughts went back over the previous year .
in many ways , it had been the happiest year of his life .
nerza had come to see him often , though less through the difficult winter months .
feraun had been a good teacher , and arii had grown to like her .
the feeling he had for cirile was different , though .
he had never felt that way about anyone before .
the long hours they spent together studying before the fireplace he would treasure always .
he still remembered her laughter when he prepared something wrong with unexpected results .
he loved the way she moved about the small kitchen as she helped feraun prepare their meals .
as he looked at her smiling eyes , he wanted this moment to live forever .
it was a year to the day that arii had arrived at ferauns cottage .
the sun had driven off the spring rains and the grass and rapidly greening trees were glowing in its radiance .
the apple tree in the back of ferauns house was aglow with blossoms and their fragrance filled the air .
the hum of bees gathering the nectar of the blossoms tickled the ears of the people gathered below the trees branches .
the forest gathered itself at the back of ferauns garden .
birds twittered in the trees as they gathered food for fattening babies held in the nests high above the ground .
arii was kneeling in the moist earth before feraun .
she looked down into his eyes and noted the power that lurked behind them .
she smiled .
there was also goodness there .
not like that other wizard .
this was a good power , held by a good wizard .
she tapped his right shoulder , then his left .
i find , supplicant , that you have fulfilled the requirements of the exalted order of the healers .
i hereby invest you with the apprentice level in our order .
stand and receive your token .
arii stood .
feraun draped the token over his neck .
it was a heal all blossom , dried and preserved with magic , suspended on a silver chain .
welcome to our order , apprentice .
may you always find the healing that you seek .
arii bowed and turned to nerza and cirile who were standing behind him .
he smiled first at nerza , and then his eyes lit on cirile .
a look of horror crossed his face .
the forest loomed behind cirile , and there , crashing through the trees , came a huge red form .
an angry red eye glared at him as it reached the edge of the forest .
nerza and cirile turned .
the girls scream echoed across the garden .
go inside , nerza shouted as he withdrew his wand .
he ran towards the monster and stopped .
he pointed his wand at gwaum , a flash of fire swept towards the monsters single red eye .
the fireball struck the monsters eye and gwaum cried out in rage .
he turned , grabbed a huge tree and ripped it from the earth , the roots flinging wet clumps of dirt and rock .
he flung the tree at nerza , who fell as it struck his legs .
arii snapped out of his stupor .
he ran towards the monster and withdrew his wand .
pointing the wand into the air , he shouted a spell learned many years before .
the air about his feet began to swirl .
it danced off , towards the monster that was now advancing towards nerza , arms outstretched .
the whirlwind increased in intensity as it engulfed the monster .
gwaum tried to sidestep the circling winds , but ariis concentration kept him in its midst .
faster and faster the winds raced .
gwaums screams echoed , filling ariis ears with their terror .
he kept the winds circling , increasing in speed still more , before finally sweeping the monster up .
his feet left the ground .
arii closed his eyes and focused his energy .
he gave his wand a final flourish .
the winds carried gwaum further and further into the sky .
his cries grew fainter and fainter .
the red monster became a black dot in the sky .
arii dropped his wand to his side .
the black dot halted , and then plunged out of sight .
arii , you have done it .
you have destroyed the monster .
ciriles words filled his ears .
he remembered his uncle .
he turned to see nerza , face ashen in pain , trapped by the tree across his legs .
arii pointed his wand at the tree and chanted .
another whirlwind arose .
it caught the branches of the tree , raising it higher and higher .
he was growing tired .
the effort with gwaum had exhausted him .
another major spell so close on its heels seemed impossible , but another look at nerzas face drove him to greater effort .
the tree rose further , and feraun was able to pull nerza from the grasp of the tree .
his eyes closed , and his body became limp .
horror gripped arii .
his uncle was dead .
the fire crackled and the man on the floor groaned .
blankets encased him and his legs held rigid by splints .
his face was gaining color .
then his eyes opened to find three pairs of eyes focused on him .
his weak voice asked the question in his eyes .
how is it that we still live ?
arii killed the monster , said cirile , her eyes glowing with pride as she looked at the boy who held his uncles hand .
killed the monster ?
how ?
nerza looked at arii .
i used a whirlwind to lift him after your fireball blinded him .
i picked him high into the air and dropped him from a great height .
he could not have survived .
nerza said nothing at this .
arii noted his troubled eyes and knew that nerza doubted the gwaum was dead .
what of my legs ?
his hand rubbed the splinted limbs .
you suffered a break below your right knee .
it will heal fine and be good as new , said feraun .
what of the left ?
the tree shattered that one .
i have done what i can , but that one will remain lame , i fear .
nerza laid his head back on the pillow that cradled his head .
i will be a cripple .
do not fear , said arii .
we will nurse you back to health , uncle .
i will stay with you and help you .
nerza glanced at arii , and cirile stood by his side .
he might be a cripple , but he was satisfied .
arii would be a great wizard .
the monster was gone .
maybe island world would now become what it was .
peace would come to the land .
however , doubt plagued his mind .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents first steps pain shot through his legs as nerza grasped the wooden crutches and pulled himself up .
the herbal concoctions feraun brewed for him helped the pain , but did not eliminate it .
the road to his recovery had been long and filled with pain .
feraun worked her magic .
it had been touch and go .
feraun feared at first that she would have to amputate the leg , but with her skill and magic , she saved them .
he glanced down at the relics on which he stood .
he still had his legs .
he would learn to live with the pain .
he turned , his attention caught by the sound of the door opening .
arii entered the cottage .
how are you this morning , uncle nerza ?
nerza smiled .
i am doing as well .
feraun has done all she can do .
it is time for us to return to my cottage .
we must continue your training .
arii nodded .
if you feel you are up to it , uncle .
it is important that you train for our order , arii .
this injury has diminished my abilities .
i am not the wizard i once was .
you are still powerful , uncle , but should n't we stay here to complete my training ?
feraun and cirile will be happy to keep us here .
i know that they would , but your training will be intense .
we can afford few distractions .
the secret methods we use must remain a secret .
here someone might oversee us .
in untrained hands , they are dangerous .
the sound of the door opening interrupted their conversation .
two figures entered .
feraun carried fresh cut flowers , whose fragrance filled the room .
feraun smiled as she entered .
good morning arii .
good morning nerza .
i see you are up and well this morning .
she placed the flowers on the wooden table , picked up a shears and began trimming the stems of the flowers as she placed them in a vase .
cirile glanced at arii and smiled .
she watched as feraun filled the vase with flowers , and then poured water from a pitcher into the vase .
arent these pretty , nerza .
the flowers this summer are the best i have seen in years .
she looked at nerza .
the smile left her face .
you have decided it is time to go , havent you .
nerza nodded .
yes .
it is time that arii completed his training .
ciriles eyes wandered to arii .
disappointment clouded those eyes .
i will miss you , arii .
we are not so far away , cirile .
i will still come to visit , when arii allows it .
feraun and nerza exchanged quiet glances .
another form of magic was occurring before their eyes .
there will be breaks , arii .
it will be a long road there is much for you to learn .
when will we go , uncle ?
i think tomorrow morning we will leave .
it will take a couple of days to get things back in order in my house .
then we will begin .
arii walked towards the door .
then i think i will take a walk and enjoy the view of the bay in the sunlight .
he opened the door and went out into the morning .
cirile glanced at the closed door .
i think i could use a walk too .
nephew and uncle spent the first few days back at the cottage putting things in order .
arii had visited from time to time to tend it , but no one had lived there in many months .
finally , nerza felt they were ready .
he called arii .
arii sat down , facing his uncle .
we are ready to begin , arii .
today we will start to explore the nuances of the order of the golden star .
is this magic as complex as what i have already learned ?
nerza smiled .
it is more complex , but there is not as much that will be new to you .
the magic of our order builds on much of what you have already learned of the other orders .
you will learn to combine that magic .
can i make up new spells , then uncle ?
after you have mastered the methods , yes , you will be able to do that .
indeed , you have done some of that already , but there is magic that is unique to our order , also .
only those dedicated to magic can master the craft .
it takes superior ability to draw upon the resources you have and focus them .
will this take another two years , uncle ?
nerza shrugged .
you have great aptitude for magic , arii .
i am hoping we can do it in less , but to do so , it will take all your concentration .
we can not have distractions .
that is why i wanted to come here , away from ferauns cottage .
the graceful figure of cirile grew before his eyes .
arii seemed to sense his uncles thoughts .
he blushed .
i will work hard , uncle .
it will take much more than hard work , arii .
it requires a dedication greater than you have already shown .
nerza picked up his staff .
he pointed the handle towards arii so he could see the golden star on the tip of the handle .
nerza grasped the star and withdrew the wand from the hilt of the staff .
your wand and your staff are your most important tools .
your wand you have already chosen .
now is it time for you to create your staff .
arii stood .
then i should begin , uncle .
i will go to the forests and choose a rod of wood .
nerza smiled .
you will not find your staff in the forest , arii .
then where will i find it , uncle ?
you will not find it arii .
you must create it .
how do i create a staff , uncle ?
your staffs creation marks your studies culmination , arii .
when you have created it , you will be a wizard of the golden star .
nerza thrust his staff at arii .
study the star on the handle .
arii studied the star .
the raised upper point seems to shimmer from an inner fire .
it is warm to the touch .
that is because it burns with a fire of my own lifes essence .
ariis eyes fastened on nerza .
the wizard continued , the lower points of the star represent the four orders you have already studied .
the upper point represents the order of the golden star .
the star and the staff are one .
the combined powers of the other four orders , as well as part of your lifes essence , combine to create it .
take out the tokens you received from the other orders .
arii took the chain from around his neck that held the tokens .
lay them on the table .
arii took them off the chain and laid the tokens on the table in front of him .
name them .
arii touched the last one he had earned .
this is a vial containing the nectar of the heal all plant .
the plant has no healing properties of its own , but is a necessary ingredient of all the important healing potions and teas .
he next touched a crystal that burned with a golden fire .
this crystal contains part of the everlasting fire , the origin of the powers of the order of the everlasting flame .
his fingers next found a shimmering , liquid orb .
this vial is from the order of the encircling waters .
water droplets of the eight rivers of island world , as well as waters from the four encircling seas make up its contents .
arii fingered the last vial , held it up and studied its contents .
this vial contains the breath of island world , collected from the summit of the mountain of seven rivers .
it is a sacred site for the order of the encircling winds .
why do you think that i do not have a similar chain ?
arii shrugged .
i guess i thought you kept it in a drawer , or something .
you are a wizard of the golden star and no longer need them .
arii , i do still need them and i carry all those tokens .
they are always with me .
where do you carry them , uncle ?
study the staff , but do not touch it .
arii ran his eyes along the shaft of the staff .
he could detect no seam where the golden star became one with the staff .
it appears as a single piece , uncle .
that is because it is , arii .
the tokens of all four orders compose it , plus part my life force .
i do not understand , uncle .
how can you impart your own life force into the staff ?
that is the difficult part , arii .
you have already combined magic from two orders .
to create the staff , you must learn to combine the magic of all four orders at once .
you must focus your thoughts .
when you have succeeded , the staff will form from elements of your chain .
after the staff forms a small portion of your life force transfers to the staff .
in essence , the staff becomes a part of you and contains the elements of all you have learned .
nerzas eyes studied the puzzled face that looked at him .
you will learn , arii .
you have shown an understanding of magic which supersedes even mine at your stage of development .
i hope to understand , uncle .
our magic is not just a magic of written spells and herbal recipes , arii .
the staff and wand become one .
still separate , but inseparable .
it will sense your need and produce the necessary magic , using the required elements from the four orders .
then i wont study spells and potions .
nerza shook his head .
no .
you will be drawing upon the things you have learned .
we will start with simple things and work our way up .
the biggest hurdles you will encounter are in your mind .
there are still spells and charms that we use , but these are specialized ones for specific purposes .
i will want to start immediately on your quest .
you seem in haste , uncle .
nerza stood and walked to the window , admiring the well kept garden near the apple tree .
things are happening , arii .
i hear rumors from distant lands .
have you had messages by your yuhma birds ?
nerza nodded .
from the south of torne there are tales of a ship which visited many years ago .
the people on this ship landed near the old town of mye .
they spent time hunting and filling their casks with fresh water .
they then left .
no one knows who these people were , or where they went .
the people who live near the sea report seeing strange goings on the island off the coast of mye , which is visible from the shore .
smoke is visible at times , and occasional hunting parties still land near mye .
no one lives on the island ?
no one has since the time of troubles many decades ago .
but it seems inhabited now .
who are these people ?
with a shrug , nerza said , that i , nor no one else , know now .
there is more .
the raiders have been hunting more often , with an unknown purpose in mind .
they seem particularly interested in any wizards that they find .
what interest would these raiders , whoever they are , have in wizards ?
nerza shrugged .
there is a reason if gwaum still lives .
we have not seen or heard anything of gwaum since our battle with him .
he may have survived , arii .
where did gwaum come from , uncle ?
you have never told me the tale .
he turned to arii .
soon , i will tell you of gwaum and the circumstances of his birth .
but this can wait for now .
arii stood and joined his uncle at the window .
these raiders , has anyone ever escaped them ?
not that i have ever heard .
they hunt in bands .
gwaum destroyed the kingdoms and scattered the people .
there is a legend that long ago , before the time of the raiders , a group of captives escaped gwaum .
it happened when i was quite young and away in nuckland .
i returned many years later .
by that time , these people , if they even existed , had vanished into the mountains .
there are reports of their existence from time to time , but i was never able to find them .
why have you not mentioned any of this before ?
nerza rubbed his chin .
the tragedy of my sisters death drove it from my mind .
raising you and seeing to your training has occupied my time .
your welfare became more important and i gave up the hunt .
nerza turned from the window .
the sun is going down .
we will eat , and then you should rest .
tomorrow we will begin .
first , though , i want to walk in the garden .
the evening is always best spent among the plants and gathering dew .
nerza , supported by his crutches , hobbled out of the door and into the twilight , leaving arii alone with his thoughts .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents first success the dust devil danced and shivered in the mid morning sun .
with pointed wand and focused mind , arii tightened it until it was a thin wisp only a couple of inches in diameter .
now , bring the point up slow , arii .
concentrate , this time .
power flowed from his mind , into his shoulder and down his arm .
tightening the grip on the wand , arii steadied it and envisioned the wind circle in his mind .
the rotating tip of the whirlwind rose from the ground and began inching its way up .
at the same time , the upper portion of the vortex curved down .
now was the critical time .
if the winds velocity in the dust devil was too strong , the mouth of the vortex would suck all the air out of itself and the dust devil would vanish .
if too weak it would dissipated before the spell was complete .
the whirlwind now formed a sideways u shape and the opposite ends of the wind began to close .
then they touched .
with a loud pop the wind circle vanished .
damn , arii said .
i almost had it .
the wind was too strong , arii .
you must have it perfect for the spell to work .
i am weary of this exercise , uncle .
in the days i have tried i have not yet succeeded .
can we move on to something else and then come back to this ?
no , arii .
you must master this skill before you move on .
the next step requires complete control over the dust devil .
when zaleb told me that this was the most important of spells i would use , i didnt really believe him .
i have never seen you use it .
its use in our magic is subtle , almost undetectable in most cases .
it is important and it is the key to youre becoming a wizard of the golden star .
you must master the dust devil .
it is impossible , uncle .
always , when i try to draw it together the winds within the dust devil are either too strong or too weak .
i will never learn this spell .
arii , i tried for many months to master the spell .
you are too impatient .
at this arii sheathed his wand and walked towards the door .
i want to take a walk , uncle .
the door opened and arii stepped out into the waxing afternoon .
nerza walked to the window and watched as the young man walked at a brisk pace down the walk and into the lane .
he knew where arii was going .
he would not follow .
arii would return at nightfall , not before .
tomorrow the young wizard would be ready to try again .
the well worn path led through the forest and down to the river and the place arii went for solace when he felt troubled .
the river came into view as he reached the bottom of the path , its waters shimmering in the afternoon sun .
the heat of the sun felt good on his back .
arii slipped the robe off and his sandals and stepped out on the rock which jutted out into the current .
he stood and dove into the deep , black pool .
down he swam , scanning the bottom with his eyes .
in the murky depths , he saw the object of his search .
scarface , the bristlefish , was in his usual spot , lazing in the current on the downstream side of a large boulder at the bottom of the river .
he touched the fishs mind and approached it .
he grasped the spiny fins at the sides of its head and laid his head close to the fishs back .
a pocket of air expanded from the fishs gills and enclosed ariis face .
arii breathed the air produced by the fishs gills and sent a command to the fishs mind .
the fish arose from the bottom , carrying arii along the bottom of the river .
a familiar presence touched his mind and arii allowed the thought to enter his mind .
arii , it is good to see you .
arii commanded the fish to stop .
he wheeled about and looked upon the smiling face of moog .
and you , teacher .
you are the one i have searched for .
moog studied his former students face .
he read a familiar look there .
something troubles you , arii .
i can not learn the spell that nerza wishes me to learn .
it is too hard .
i have never known you to run from a challenge , arii .
its not that the spell is too difficult it is you that are trying too hard .
you must relax and let the magic flow through you .
that is what nerza keeps telling me , but i can not wrap my mind around the magic .
the magic of the golden star is very difficult magic to grasp , arii .
you have only been working at it for a few weeks .
most wizards of that order strive for many years to master the craft .
i do not have years , teacher .
the raiders are devastating the land .
there is a mysterious settlement on the island off the shore of mye of which no one seems to know anything .
uncle nerza has heard that the raiders are searching for a wizard of his order .
he fears that gwaum still lives .
events appear heading towards some great event that requires my readiness .
i am not ready .
moog settled on a rock near his former charge .
this settlement of which you speak , we nixes are aware of .
can you tell me anything about it ?
moog shook his head .
there is only a small stream on the island which is not big enough for nixes to navigate .
so you can tell me nothing about them ?
no , young wizard , i can not .
only that they speak a strange language .
we have watched them when the visit the mainland to hunt and fish .
more than that , we can not tell .
moog arose from the bottom of the river .
they need me in mualla , arii , so i must leave you now .
arii left the fish and extended his hands .
moog and his fingers touched in the traditional nix greeting and farewell .
goodbye , teacher .
may your waters always run sweet .
moog bowed his head and replied , and yours , arii .
at this , the nix wizard swam away .
arii watched him , then remounted scarface and rode him back to scarfaces boulder .
arii surfaced and climbed up on the rock , water dripping from his body , spotting it .
he found a spot to sit near the waters edge , allowing the sun to dry his wet body .
the waters sweet scent clung to the bank near the boulder , perfuming the air .
bees hummed as they gathered the nectar and butterflies flitted among the wildflowers which dotted the bank .
a backwater which formed downstream from the boulder caught his eye .
a whirlpool formed by the opposing currents of the water swirled , lazy in the afternoon sun as it swirled and danced on the surface .
arii studied the whirlpool with interest .
what was a whirlpool but a watery version of the dust devil ?
if he could understand the whirlpool , he could understand the dust devil .
he slipped back into the water and swam into the center of the whirlpool .
he could feel the cool water against his skin and sense the currents as they played against each other .
he closed his eyes and allowed his mind to explore the currents .
he felt one with the waters as he allowed the current to twist his body .
he emerged from the water and returned to his perch on the rock .
he withdrew his wand and pointed it at the whirlpool .
the vortexs intensity increased .
he could hear the sound of the water as it sucked air from the surface and pulled it beneath the waves .
faster and faster the waters circled .
the whirlpool grew in size .
he could feel the power of the waters as they circled .
he felt the magic flow from his body and into the whirlpool .
he closed his eyes and allowed the magic to ebb .
the waters slowed and the whirlpool closed .
when he opened his eyes , the whirlpool was again a small , insignificant vortex in a large river .
in ariis eyes , the whirlpool was no longer insignificant .
it was a teacher and he respected it .
the sun was low in the horizon , casting long shadows across the road when arii emerged from the forest .
the wind was lying down and birds chattered in the forest and bushes which lined the road .
he strolled along towards the abode of nerza .
as he approached the cottage he stopped .
it had been many days since it last rained and dust lay heavy on the surface of the road .
arii pulled out his wand and extended it .
he closed his eyes for a moment and then reopened them .
a small dust devil danced in the road , carrying the fine dust aloft as it levitated it from the road .
faster and faster it twirled , and a cloud of dust emerged from its apex .
the tip of the dust devil rose slightly from the surface of the road .
it continued upwards until the dust devil formed an l shape .
now the top of the devil bent downwards forming a u. arii held the dust devil steady and gathered his strength .
the two tips approached each other .
arii slowed the approach , controlling the wind held within it with his will .
the gap between the top and bottom lessened .
now they were just inches apart .
sweat dripped from ariis forehead and on his chin .
his eyes burned from the salty perspiration as it glazed his eyes .
exhaustion nipped at him , but arii ignored its cloud .
with a last spurt of energy , he forced the two tips together .
he had done it .
the wind circle hovered in the air before him , dancing in the late afternoon sun .
arii , you have succeeded .
arii saw his uncle ran down the path from the cottage to the road .
arii ran to his uncle and the two embraced , both laughing and shouting into the gathering darkness .
arii went into the cottage feeling exhausted .
a tingle of excitement ran down his spine and suffused itself into his body .
he had done it .
he was finally on the road to becoming a wizard of the golden star .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents the glade the vortex was spinning so fast that it seemed a solid object that glowed with a golden fire .
steady , arii , now draw it towards you .
arii , his face and his eyes displaying fierce concentration , gave the wand a slight upward flick .
the end of the vortex rose from the ground and the top began tilting towards the young wizard .
pull it in , arii .
the vortex inched closer to the young wizard until it touched the end of the wand .
arii could feel the gushing winds as they exited the top of the vortex .
the end of the wand wavered , but arii managed to hold it still .
that is good , arii .
end the spell .
the vortex vanished , a loud crack resounding as the air around the former vortex crashed back together .
nerza held his hands over his ears and glared at his nephew .
not so fast , arii .
you will deafen me yet .
arii smiled and said , i love to do that .
nerza shook his head and sat down on the ground .
you are ready for the final trial , arii .
arii glanced at his uncle and smiled again .
are you serious ?
i am finally to become a wizard of the golden star ?
nerza nodded .
tomorrow you must rest and fast .
at dawn the following day , we will meet in the glade .
there you will become a wizard of the golden star .
why in the glade ?
it is a sacred place for our family .
i became a wizard of the golden star there , as did many generations before me .
the isolation there eliminates distractions .
what preparations should i make , uncle ?
you only need to rest and fast , arii .
i will spend tomorrow night sleeping in the glade .
come there tomorrow at dawn .
make sure you have the tokens with you .
i still have not yet created a staff , uncle .
nerzas eyes met ariis eyes .
that will be your task at the final rite , arii .
but how will i create it ?
what will i make if from ?
have you not guessed , arii ?
ariis thoughts progressed over all that he had learned .
i think i know , uncle .
nerza nodded .
just make sure you are ready .
i will be , uncle .
arii walked down the road and found the path that led to the river .
the sun was setting in the western sky and the steady , high pitched hum of the blood flies filled his ears .
he sat on the boulder overlooking the river and watched as fish flicked at the top of the waters .
it was early fall .
ariis steady progress through the steps took all summer .
after mastering the wind circle , arii learned the water column , then the fire column .
mastery of the column of fire and water followed .
todays lesson completed the steps .
nerza said he was ready .
arii watched as twilight deepened .
he wished he felt as confident as his uncle was .
in two days , it would be over .
he would be a wizard of the golden star .
arii emerged from the forest and stopped .
dawn painted the clouds in the eastern sky with the first fires of the rising sun .
birds were just beginning their morning serenade .
the air was calm , tinted with the fragrances of the autumn wildflowers that grew in the glade .
he continued walking to the center of the glade and found a circle cleared of all vegetation .
a round , flat stone , gray in the dim light of morning , lay at the center .
nerza stood at the opposite side of the stone .
arii glanced first at the stone , then at nerza .
i dont remember this stone .
has it always been here ?
this is the wizards stone .
it emerges only when needed .
and today i need it .
nerza held his hands out towards arii and beckoned with his fingers .
come , arii .
it is time .
arii approached the stone .
place the tokens on the stone .
arii removed the chain from his neck and laid it on the stone .
place the crystal of fire in the center of the stone .
arii removed the crystal from the chain and moved it to the center .
now open the vial of waters and place it on the right .
after he did this , nerza said , place the heal all blossom into the water .
arii laid the dried blossom on the water .
he could smell the sharp , mint fragrance as it immersed in the water .
next nerza said , take the vial of the winds in your hands and stand opposite me .
nerza , his hands folded in front of him , looked at arii .
you will have only one chance .
if you succeed , you will be a wizard of the golden star .
if you fail , you will have destroyed all the connections you have to the wizard world .
you will no longer belong to any of the orders .
but four orders have inducted me .
only a wizard of the golden star may belong to all four orders .
if you fail to conduct this rite successfully , expulsion from them all follows consigning you to the edge of the wizard world .
ariis heart skipped a beat and his innards felt coiled like an evil snake .
are you ready , supplicant ?
arii nodded .
remove the cork from the vial of the winds and inhale them into your lungs .
arii removed the cork , placed the mouth of the vial in his mouth and inhaled .
now extend your wand towards the vial of the waters and exhale the winds .
arii exhausted the winds from his lungs , felt the hot blast flow down his arm and towards the wand .
he propelled the winds to the vial of waters .
form a vortex and draw the waters into it .
the winds began to turn in a circle that arii drew tighter and tighter .
the vortex formed and arii lifted it above the waters .
careful to control winds velocity , he drew the water into the vortex .
when the vial of waters was empty , nerza said , now move the vortex over the crystal of fire and draw the crystal into the vortex .
the vortex moved from the vial to the crystal , and arii settled it on the crystal .
he drew the crystal into the vortex .
as it entered it , the crystal seemed to melt and the fire infused the vortex with a golden light .
draw the top of the vortex towards you .
the vortex shuddered and then lifted from the stone .
it began to tilt towards arii and began to approach the extended wand .
closer and closer it came .
arii could feel the blast of the wind as it exited the top of the vortex .
his wand faltered as the winds buffeted it .
arii felt like he was losing it .
the vortex shifted and began to dissipate .
with a surge of power , arii righted it .
perspiration ran from his forehead and his body quaked .
the energy drain on his body exhausted him .
he again wavered and the vortex shifted .
pulling himself together , arii focused still more power on the vortex .
it began inching towards him again .
pull it over the wand .
it must touch your fingers .
the vortex covered the wand .
arii could feel the winds tearing at his fingers , threatening to wrest them from their grip on the wand .
pull the fire towards you and touch it with your mind .
arii felt the fiery touch of the flames as the reached his fingers .
he reached out with his mind .
as he touched the fire with his mind , he felt himself drawn from his body .
his soul flowed to the base of the vortex and into its depths .
he felt himself drawn in towards a golden fire .
as he passed through the fire , he felt a small portion of his soul broken off .
the remainder gushed from the top of the vortex and into nothingness .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents rebirth his first vision was that of his uncles face , eyes brimming with concern , looking into his .
arii sat up .
he found himself lying on the flat stone holding a white staff with a golden star on the tip of the handle .
excitement surged through his body .
i did it .
i am a wizard of the golden star .
there was a blank spot in his memory .
he remembered the vortex sucking him in .
then there was darkness .
he shook his head , trying to shake the memories loose .
he looked at his uncle and asked , what happened ?
you passed through the void , arii .
i dont understand , uncle .
you died , arii , as we all do when we achieve the status of wizard of the golden star .
if i died , how am i still alive ?
it is the magic of the calling stone .
when your soul left your body , the stone called it back before it entered the land of the dead .
so you died and yet you live .
so all wizards of the golden star are born on this stone ?
yes , arii .
we all come into being on this stone .
but do all wizards of the golden star come to this glade ?
nerza shook his head .
no .
as i said , the stone appears when someone needs it .
that is why i had to spend the night in this glade .
i had to call the stone .
when you get off it , the need vanishes .
the stone will disappear and goes where it goes until someone needs it again .
arii swung his legs off the stone , felt the ground beneath his feet and stood .
when he glanced behind him , the stone was gone .
he grasped his staff and glanced at his uncle , eyes shining in pride .
thank you , uncle .
you have made me a wizard of the golden star .
nerza shook his head .
you made yourself a wizard yourself , arii .
it was your drive and talent .
i only showed you the way .
i cant wait to show cirile .
and moog .
tomorrow is soon enough , arii .
you have passed through the shadows today and expended a great deal of energy .
today you must rest .
tomorrow you may go to the river and visit your friends .
then you can visit cirile .
nerza reached out and gripped ariis hand .
come , young wizard .
you must eat and then sleep .
then you may begin to enjoy your new powers .
as the young and old wizard walked back to the stone cottage , arii was happy .
after many years of struggle and strife , he had achieved his goal .
for the moment , the shadow of gwaum lay hidden from him .
he thought only of cirile and of how happy she would be .
the morning larks song touched his ears with its happy song .
arii stood on the boulder and watched the river flow by .
he shed his clothing and plunged into the cold waters .
swimming towards the bottom , he soon found the object of his search .
scarface hung behind his usual boulder , facing upstream , and waiting for food to come by .
the fish paused as ariis mind touched it .
the young wizard swam to the huge bristlefish , grasped its fins and laid his head behind the fishs head .
a bubble of air grew out from the fishs gills and encompassed ariis head .
a command passed from his mind to the fishs and the fish began to swim down , to the bottom of the river .
he followed the bottom of the river for many miles , exchanging one fish for another as the fish tired .
his plan was to travel to the nix city of mualla .
the city lay just offshore of the old , ruined city of cleery .
ferauns cottage occupied one of the hills overlooking the city .
after seeing the nixian city , he would go ashore and visit feraun and cirile .
it would be a wonderful day .
the water grew lighter as the sun rose higher in the sky above the river .
the dark circle at the bottom of the river became visible .
arii could see nixes as the entered and exited the hole .
his calculations were correct and he arrived at mualla during the summer star festival .
he circled above the hole , waiting .
he did not wish to enter the city unbidden .
many nixes saw him and pointed in his direction .
he felt the excited pulsations of their minds .
after a few minutes , a young nix emerged from the city and swam towards him .
he recognized the nix as his friend cerna .
when they grew close , cerna extended his hands .
arii released the fish and gripped his friends hands in the traditional nix greeting .
he felt his friends mind touch his .
arii , it is good to see you .
it has been many tides since you have been here .
i have been away a long time , cerna .
have you completed your task , my friend ?
yes , cerna .
i am a member of the order of the golden star .
cerna released ariis hands .
that is wonderful , arii .
the news will delight moog .
you have arrived just in time .
it is the time of our festival .
i will need to capture another fish , said arii .
arii located a large one in a depression in the rivers bottom .
he cast his spell and soon was riding the fish , his head encased in a bubble of air .
the wizard and the nix entered the city .
a crowd on nixes gathered around the young wizard .
his mind was busy touching the minds of many of his old friends .
then he felt the touch he had been waiting for .
he turned the fish and the smiling face of moog was before him .
ah , young arii , i see that you have come to visit our fair city beneath the water .
arii gripped the fish with his legs and extended his hands to greet his teacher .
greetings , teacher .
i have longed to see you and your city again .
i see by your staff that you have achieved your goal .
you are a member of the order of the golden star .
i am , teacher .
he held his staff out for the wizard to see .
moogs smiled .
it is a difficult order to master , arii , but i had no doubts that you would achieve it .
you could have not had a better teacher than your uncle nerza .
he was a wonderful teacher .
you have gotten a wonderful thing , arii .
i have been in contact with nixes from various quarters of island world .
there is both fear and admiration for you .
ariis eyes focused on moog .
fear ?
yes , fear .
your magical talents are well known .
the last wizard of your abilities turned bad .
there is fear that you will follow in his footsteps .
is this the one that no one will talk about ?
i have tried to get uncle nerza to tell me about him , but he keeps stalling .
i will leave it for your uncle , arii .
when he feels ready to tell you , he will tell you .
by now , the group of nixes had reached the center of the festival .
again , arii watched the dancing nixes as they enjoyed the music .
i think , said moog , that you have grown strong enough to listen to our music , arii .
i will open your ears gradually so as not to overwhelm you with its power .
you will need to dissolve the air bubble so the cadence can touch your ears .
arii commanded the fish to stop .
the fish descended to the bottom and arii took a deep breath .
then the air bubble dissolved .
for a moment , arii heard nothing but the gentle caressing of the notes upon his ears .
the sounds increased until he could feel the full majesty of the music .
he closed his eyes and drank the sound in .
he could feel the power of the music as it swept into him .
he could feel the power of the seas , the darkness of its depths and the glories of the creatures and plants that lived in it .
he could feel the beautiful coral reefs and wondrous meadows of sea kelps that lined the shallow waters .
as the wonder of it swept through him , arii was aware of moogs filter .
he longed to listen to the full cadence of the music .
the end of his staff began to glow and arii felt moogs mind filter dissolve .
the full force of the music enveloped him .
his head began to swim .
a black dot appeared before his eyes .
the dot grew until it was all he could see .
his fingers lost their grip on the fish and he floated up , bubbles exuding from his mouth and nose .
moog , a look of horror on his face , leaned forward and embraced arii .
a bubble of air arose from moogs gills and enveloped ariis head .
clutching arii in his arms , he arose from the depths and exited the city .
he raced through the murky water and soon reached the top .
he laid arii on a sand bar that extended from the bank of the river .
he breathed into his mouth and pressed on his chest .
the young wizard lay still , his face white and lips bloodless .
he heard cernas footsteps coming up behind him .
the nix knelt to examine arii .
he is dead , said cerna .
an arrow whisked past his face .
look , the river monsters have killed that man .
moog looked up to see a group of humans approaching .
another was fitting an arrow to his bow .
one , already aimed , released the arrow .
take his staff .
i can not , said moog .
cerna grasped ariis staff , somersaulted backwards , and splashed into the water as the arrow flashed by .
he heard the splash as moog dove in near him .
more arrows rained into the river around them .
moog , despairing at the death of his friend and student , swam deeper into the depths of the river .
when they reached the bottom , they reentered the city .
a group of nixes gathered about him .
moog buried his face in his hands and then looked at cerna .
he is dead .
arii is dead .
i could not save him .
he related what had happened .
you should have brought him with you , said one of the nixes .
at least we could have taken his body back to nerza .
there was no time , said moog .
they came upon us too quickly and they were well armed .
perhaps there is still something we can do , said cerna .
we can surface in numbers .
we can attack them .
we have no weapons , cerna .
my magic is useless on land .
they are too strong for us .
nonetheless , we must try .
i can not allow my friends body to fall into the hands of humans who will not respect him .
at this , the nixes swam towards the surface of the river .
moogs head surfaced first and he looked to the sand bar .
the men had gone .
ariis body was gone .
they have taken him , said moog .
we have lost our friend .
he glanced at the staff held now in cernas hand .
we must return this to nerza .
we must tell him what has happened to his nephew .
moog glanced up at the surface of the river .
the light of day was fading .
we must begin at once .
we will arrive by morning .
it will be a sad beginning of the day for our friend nerza .
a solemn procession of nixes began the journey upstream , towards the cottage of nerza .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents a message waylaid the kettle over the fire began to boil and the rich fragrance of mahfra filled the cottage .
nerza removed it from the fire and placed it on the wooden table to steep .
after adding fat to the pan , he swung it over the flames to heat .
he went out to the well and pulled on the rope that descended into its inky dark depths .
a wooden bucket with eggs and butter packed inside came into view .
nerza chose two eggs and cut off a sliver of butter from the block .
then he lowered the bucket back into the well .
he cracked the eggs , slipped the contents into the now hot melted grease and added some rian strips from the larder .
the eggs and meat strips spattered and sputtered as they fried .
nerza cut two slices of bread and put them on his plate .
after cooking the eggs and rian strips he slid them on his plate .
he sat at the table looking out the window and watched the birds fluttering around the garden outside .
it was a satisfying morning .
arii had become a wizard of the golden star .
gwaum appeared absent from island world since their encounter those many years ago .
only the mysterious dwellers on the island off mye and the raiders were now troubling island world .
they would be able to manage those threats .
if indeed , the dwellers on the island were threats .
nerza could see the future ordained to him .
arii and cirile would marry .
there would be children .
with gwaum gone , he and arii could deal with these raiders .
few forces were more powerful than two wizards of the golden star were .
even a crippled wizard was still quite powerful .
nerza smiled .
together he and arii would defeat these raiders and help begin the process of putting island world back together again .
a knock sounded at his door .
nerza dabbed at his mouth with the cloth napkin and stood up .
who could be calling at this early hour ?
he opened the door .
moog , cerna , good morning .
will you come in ? ''
moog shook his head .
it is foul tidings we bring to you , nerza . ''
cerna thrust arii 's staff forward .
nerza glanced at the staff .
what is this ?
arii 's staff ? ''
moog nodded .
he is dead , nerza . ''
arii ?
dead ?
how ? ''
moog related what had happened at the nix city of mualla .
when we left him , a group of human men were surrounding him .
when we returned , the men were gone , as was arii 's body . ''
cerna handed the staff to nerza , who looked at it .
i can not touch it , '' he said .
lean it against the wall , here by the door . ''
cerna leaned the staff against the wall .
moog glanced at nerza .
i am sorry about arii .
i loved him .
we all did , but there was nothing we could do .
these humans were well armed .
we could n't have prevailed against them . ''
with a glance at his friend , nerza said , you are right , moog .
you could do nothing .
i would like to be alone , now .
i need to grieve my nephew . ''
cerna and moog bowed and left the cottage , leaving nerza alone .
nerza sat down on the chair .
the remains of his breakfast no longer interested him .
he glanced at the staff leaning against the wall .
arii dead ?
no .
if arii were dead , his life force would have left the staff .
it would have vanished .
moog would not have known that .
arii was alive .
the raiders had captured him , he was sure of that .
nerza cursed his crippled leg .
only he could rescue arii , and he was a crippled relic .
visions shifted .
the nixes pulling him from the bottom of the river , then of the men who surrounded him , as he lay helpless on the shore .
he was conscience of the fact that cerna took his staff .
arii looked into the face of the leader of this group of men .
others crowded around , staring into his face .
one knelt and lifted his arm by the wrist , feeling the slight pulse .
he still lives , '' said the man .
arii 's world faded into darkness .
the garden needed tending .
feraun stepped out of her front door and knelt to pull a weed .
it was late afternoon and the day was cooling .
it was a good time of day to work in the garden .
a sound from the road caught her ear .
she looked up to see a small group of men on horseback riding by .
they studied her cottage as they went .
one of the horses was pulling a litter with a man strapped to it .
she could not see who the man was .
after all these years , it was still hard to get used to the fact that all these men saw was a ruined cottage .
bless nerza and his spells .
fear still caught in feraun 's throat .
cirile had been out all day gathering herbs from the mountains .
she was due back any time .
these men were riding in the direction she would be coming from .
feraun watched in helpless silence as the men rode by .
concern for cirile welled up in her .
the sun hung low in the west .
cirile walked along the lane carrying a basket of herbs that she had gathered from the meadow higher up on the mountain .
the fresh cut plants exuded a pleasant fragrance that pleased her as she walked .
as she rounded a curve on the road a group of men approaching her mounted on horses surprised her .
she stopped , fear clutching her innards .
raiders .
the leader of the group held his hand up , halting his troop .
he cantered over to cirile and looked down into her face .
we have a badly hurt man with us .
i have heard that there is a healer on this mountain .
can you take us to her ? ''
i am a healer , '' said cirile .
let me see the hurt man . ''
she walked to a litter tied to one of the horses and looked down in to his face .
oh , arii . ''
she looked at the leader of the horsemen .
what have you done to him ? ''
we found him like that .
one of those accursed nixes was bending over him .
we came in time to save him from them . ''
cirile knelt to feel arii 's face .
the skin was cold .
she felt for a pulse .
he was still alive .
go back the way you came .
i must get him to my dwelling as fast as we can . ''
there is nothing back that way but a broken down cottage . ''
that is my home . ''
the leader reached down , took cirile 's hand and pulled her into the saddle behind him .
the horses turned and they rode back to the cottage .
feraun was standing in the middle of the road .
she saw cirile and her face grew worried .
it is all right , teacher .
they have arii .
someone hurt him . ''
the horses stopped in front of the cottage .
feraun bent over the stricken wizard and placed her hand on his head .
how did he get this way ? ''
her eyes fastened on the leader of the group .
we found him by the river with two nixes bending over him .
whatever they did or were going to do , we stopped .
we built a litter to bring him up here .
we have heard talk of a healer here . ''
you have found us .
please , bring him into the cottage . ''
the leader cast dubious eyes at the broken wreck before him .
it is our home , '' said cirile .
please , bring him inside so we may tend him . ''
the man dismounted and commanded one of the others to help .
they untied the litter from the horse and carried it inside the cottage .
they looked around in disbelief once inside .
i can not believe this , '' said the man .
from the road it seems a wreck of a house .
but here , on the inside , it is a wonderful home . ''
his eye glanced at feraun .
there is more than healing magic afoot here . ''
never mind the magic , untie arii from the litter and place him on the bed . ''
after settling arii on the bed , they walked towards the door and opened it .
you have not told us who you are , '' said feraun .
nor will we , '' said the man .
know me only as one of those who returned .
but pray do not breathe a word of our existence to anyone . ''
at that , the man and his companion left the cottage , leaving feraun and cirile to tend the stricken wizard .
cirile pulled the blankets away that the men had wrapped around arii .
she saw that he was naked .
she glanced at feraun who said , he has been with the nixes .
he has no wand and his chain of tokens is missing . ''
what do you make of it ?
what is wrong with him ? ''
feraun shook her head .
i do not know . ''
running her hands over his body she said , i do not think he is sick with any disease .
there are no wounds on him .
he is cold as ice . ''
she covered arii with blankets .
his malady is a mystery to me .
i can not treat what i do not know .
i must inform nerza .
he will know what to do . ''
after writing a note on a small piece of parchment , she walked into the back yard behind the cottage and removed the yuhma bird from its cage .
darkness was encroaching and night would soon envelop the land .
she wrapped the parchment around its leg and tied it with a secure knot , using a leather string .
the bird perched on her index finger .
feraun studied the bird for a moment , and then raised her hand , encouraging the bird to fly .
go , dotsa , go find your master . ''
the bird sprang from her finger and flew aloft .
it circled once and flew off towards nerza 's cottage .
the bird soon disappeared from her sight in the gathering darkness .
she watched the empty skies for a long time .
arii was failing .
she could see that .
she hoped that the bird would get to nerza in time .
it was not far to nerza 's cottage .
in an hour or two , at most the bird would arrive at his cottage .
it would peck on his window until the wizard heard and retrieved it .
nerza would be here before morning .
feraun only hoped that it would be in time .
the owl perched motionless at the top of the dead tree in the center of the forest .
its ears attuned to all the night sounds .
it listened for the squeaking of a mouse , the croaking of a frog or any other sound that would betray its prey to its presence .
another sound caught its attention .
the beating wings of a yuhma bird as it flew his way .
these birds did not make up a normal part of the night owl 's diet , as the birds usually bedded down at night .
the birds were tasty .
this one was flying in a straight line .
it would be easy to anticipate its flight .
on noiseless wings , the owl took flight .
it circled high above the path of the approaching bird .
it sensed , rather than saw , the bird flying below it .
at just the right moment , the owl began its dive .
the strike was too late .
the owl 's talon 's clutched , and then lost the bird .
the owl watched as the bird fell into the forest below .
overhead , the owl knew that the bird had landed somewhere in the forest below .
it flew to a tree and landed .
cocking its head , the owl listened .
it could wait .
the bird , if it lived , would come out of its hiding place .
the leaf litter on the forest floor would give it away .
the owl would feed well tonight .
dotsa did not sense the owl until it was too late .
pain etched its wing as it fell .
it had not been a good strike and the bird was able to flee the hunter .
she fell to the forest floor and took shelter under a fallen tree .
dazed and bleeding dotsa rested her heart racing in fear .
the urge to complete its bidding pulled at the bird .
it must reach its master .
overhead the bird sensed the waiting predator .
the night was not safe .
its wing was not broken but the owl had hurt it .
the frightened , wounded bird cowered in fear on the forest floor .
it knew that the slightest rustle could bring the owl down .
this time , helpless and hurt , the yuhma bird would make an easy target .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents a story begun nerza gathered the things together he needed and hobbled to his waiting horse .
feraun 's medicines worked a miracle on his leg .
the crutch discarded , nerza could at least walk , and use his wand and staff .
he wrapped ariis staff in a blanket and slung it from the saddle .
nerza mounted the horse , took one look at his cottage .
he knew not where his search would take him , nor how long before he would see his home again .
as he spurred the horse , he saw a yuhma bird fluttering around above his head .
nerza stopped and held out his hand .
the bird circled once and settled on his finger .
he looked and the wing and saw the missing feathers and raw flesh .
he examined the wound .
most likely caused by an owl , it was lucky that the bird had escaped .
nerza unrolled the note tied to the bird 's leg .
he read the note .
his first reaction was of joy .
then the joy turned to concern .
he folded the note and tucked it inside a pocket of his robe .
he spurred the horse to a gallop .
he had not a moment to lose .
he did not know how long dotsa 's attacker had delayed its flight .
however long that interval was , it might be critical .
he felt the hardness of arii 's staff under the blanket .
the young man still lived .
for how long , he did not know .
feraun hovered over the young man and again checked his pulse .
it was weakening .
her eyes met cirile 's , who asked , what is keeping nerza ? ''
the older woman 's eyes glanced out the window at the gathering light .
dawn was arriving .
the day waxed .
her eyes flitted to the young man lying on her bed .
arii was not .
his life was waning .
the dawn became morning that became midday .
arii continued to weaken , though still clutching to life .
his eyes were beginning to sink into his head , and his skin turning gray .
it would not be long .
a shadow passed the window and a moment later a knock at the door .
feraun jumped to her feet and ran to the door .
nerza stood at her doorstep , holding a long , blanket wrapped bundle in his hands .
she reached out , grabbed him by the hands and dragged him into the room .
where have you been ? ''
the bird arrived late , '' he said .
i think an owl attacked it .
that it made it at all through a miracle .
where is arii ? ''
feraun led nerza to the bedroom where arii clung to life .
cirile looked at nerza , her tear stained eyes moist with grief .
what is wrong with him ? ''
nerza bent low over the young man .
he suffers exposure to the music of the nixes .
it is a wonder he is still alive . ''
what can you do ? ''
nerza glanced at feraun .
has cirile completed her studies ?
has she become a full member of the order ? ''
feraun shook her head .
i was going to complete her induction today . ''
that is excellent .
she is the only one here who can handle his staff . ''
nerza handed the bundle to cirile .
unwrap it and place it in his hand . ''
cirile untied the leather bindings and took the staff in her hands .
she placed it on arii 's chest and moved his hands to grasp it , bending his fingers as if grasp it .
the finger did not clasp the staff .
he must hold it , '' said nerza .
we must make him aware of the staff . ''
nerza slapped arii 's face .
arii , wake up .
you must hold the staff . ''
there was no response .
cirile placed her hands over arii 's hands .
please , arii .
wake up . ''
there was no response .
his face , drawn with approaching death , remained impassive .
cirile bent low over his face and touched her lips to his .
for a moment , nothing happened .
then the fingers began to tighten on the staff .
as they tightened , the golden star brightened .
a silver misty shroud flowed from the star and enveloped arii 's body , then melted into his skin .
his color deepened , and his breathing became regular .
feraun felt his wrist .
his pulse is returning . ''
her eyes moved to nerza .
when he sensed his staff , his life force within the staff sensed the magic he needed .
he will live , though he will need to rest many days before he regains his strength .
he may not awaken for many hours . ''
cirile held the hands that held the staff .
she looked up at nerza , relief shining in her eyes .
at least he will awaken . ''
feraun reached for nerza 's hand .
you got here just in time .
he would not have lasted longer . ''
nerza smiled .
dotsa got through .
now , i must tend the bird .
she needs food and rest . ''
i will help you . ''
feraun glanced at cirile .
cirile will see to arii 's needs . ''
she will , indeed , '' said nerza .
the two stepped from the room .
cool nights and sunny days heralded the arrival of late summer in the low mountains above the bay of cleery .
the arrival of evening of this particular day found arii , nerza , cirile and feraun gathered around a fire .
feraun sat nearest the fire , turning a spit that contained a gobble fowl .
a decanter of wine stood on a table and four glasses surrounded it .
arii sipped his wine and glanced at his uncle .
you have never told me the tale of that wizard that went bad . ''
nerza glanced around the fire at the faces of his companions .
i have not heard it either , '' said cirile .
i would love to hear it . ''
nerza picked up his glass and inhaled the bouquet of the wine before tilting it .
he replaced the glass on the table .
it is a long tale which will consume much of the night . ''
we are not going anywhere , nerza , '' said feraun .
tell the tale as it has been many years since i heard it .
even then , i only heard portions of it .
i have never heard the full story , especially the part that concerns you . ''
nerza took another pull at the wine and sat back .
he gripped his staff and gazed into the fire .
it all happened so many years ago . ''
his eyes wandered from face to face .
i will tell the tale . ''
he settled back in his chair , looked again into the fire and said , it all begins with the wizard darnay in the kingdom of napoli . ''
the night passed and nerza told his tale .
back to wizard of the golden star table of contents back to table of contents map of island world tale of the white rock a. e. mableson book 2 the rise of gwaum the story begins a fiery birth reversal defeat gwaum triumphant the road of terror a plan showdown the tale ends captives escape discovered sanctuary a plan emerges sali captured escape the story begins orange tongues of flame bit into the darkness above the fire .
nerza studied the flames , gathering his memories before he began to speak .
the forces of forbidden magic drew gwaum forth from the depths of fire . ''
arii stirred and drew cirile towards him as they faced him from across the flames .
he asked the older wizard , how do we know of his birth ? ''
only from the efforts of the wizard alaab do we know the tale of gwaum .
it was the wizard darnay who brought the monster into existence .
darnay kept a complete journal of his experiments that alaab found during a search of darnay 's cottage .
he sent the chronicles to the grand council of wizards in the hidden city of niru .
they are there now , hidden in a vault deep in the grand council chamber accessible only to members of the grand council . ''
arii rose to add a couple of logs to the fire .
he looked as nerza as he sat back down .
how do you know of them ? ''
nerza drained his glass of wine and replaced it on the table that sat in front of him .
he watched as feraun refilled it , and then continued , i served on the grand council for many years in my youth .
it was during these years i studied darnay 's records .
i know the story of gwaum as well as anyone does . ''
he glanced at the faces of the listeners around the fire .
the gentle glimmer of starlight covered the vast black dome that stretched overhead .
arii sipped again at his wine and began his tale .
in a few moments , it would be time for him to act .
napolaun lay sleeping below him , its grand spires and towers illuminated by the full moon that gazed down on him from the black sky .
darnay waited .
soon the chariot of the moon would pull its burden overhead .
at the same moment , the chariot of the sun would draw the sun to a point below his feet .
at that moment of perfect balance , he would light the fire .
darnay went over the spell in his mind .
satisfaction warmed his soul .
he had embedded the spell in his mind .
when he lit the fire , his spell would draw a bit of fire from the sun below him .
the moons strength would aid his spell by pulling the fire of the sun through the fires at the center of the earth , adding to its intensity .
it would surface here .
he would create the thing he desired to create .
this time he would succeed .
he knew he would .
he glanced at his moon dial .
the shadow cast by the gnomon told him it was time .
he pointed his wand at the base of the pyre and flicked a fireball at it .
the pyre erupted into flame that danced high in the night , sending sparks and smoke upwards at the moon .
summoning all his power , darnay drew an image from his mind and cast it at the fire .
the sparks above the bonfire circled , and then coalesced .
an image began to form and move .
darnay increased the potency of the spell .
he could feel the fire of the sun enter the image .
it was working .
he tried to draw the image from its perch above the flame .
it moved away from the pinnacle of the fire and descended to the earth .
when its feet touched the ground , it vanished in a shower of sparks .
he had failed .
the moment passed .
he would have to wait another month before he could try again .
books and scrolls lay strewn across his wooden table .
he tapped the point of the quill on the table , beating a steady drum of impatience into the room .
he studied his spell again , stopping on occasion to consult with one of the ancient volumes on the table .
he glanced at his pure white staff that leaned against the table .
he should not have to resort to using books and scrolls .
the staff should sense what he needed and do it .
however , there were elements lacking , elements that he alone could not provide .
he pondered this problem .
to conjure up a living , breathing fire apparition he needed three wizards of the eternal flame .
it would only gain life with three .
one could not do it alone .
even he , a wizard of the golden star , could not do it alone .
he would need help .
the short cuts he tried to employ just would not work .
his staff and wand alone could not produce the magic he needed .
darnay considered the problem .
he knew that he would never gain consent of two other wizards to aid him in bringing his creation to life .
they would demand to see the spell .
besides , when they saw the spell , not only would they refuse to cooperate , they would inform the council .
the council would then him from the order of the eternal flame .
if they did this , they would sever his connection with the eternal flame and his chances of creating his creature would end .
he got up and walked out of his door .
below him in the afternoon sun , napolaun lay sheltered by the bay of napoli and guarded by its twin forts .
napoli was a powerful kingdom , the most powerful of island world .
his eye traced the river fleet along its valley until it disappeared into the distance .
far away , in the ice mountains , the river drew its source from the white rock .
he looked again at napoli .
he coveted power .
he wanted to rule all island world .
to rule so vast a territory he needed this creature .
even with his powers , napoli was too strong for him to master .
its navies roamed the waters of island world and its armies had never seen defeat in battle .
then there was alaab .
alaab was the court wizard , a fellow wizard of the golden star .
alaab was powerful and he distrusted darnay .
darnay knew that jealousy bred this distrust because darnay was the more powerful of the two and alaab knew it .
as he pondered his problem , a glint of a solution occurred to darnay .
he needed two wizards of the order of the eternal flame to help him perform the spell .
yet , he knew that none would help volunteer to help him .
there might be a way .
the idea grew .
maybe it would work .
he went back into his cottage and walked to his bookcase .
he studied the volumes , and then chose one from the top shelf .
he sat down and turned the pages , looking for the section he needed .
finally , he found it .
he traced the line of writings with his finger .
he picked up his spell and studied the words , and then returned to the volume in front of him .
why had he not thought of this before ?
it seemed so simple .
he laid the book on the table and thought about what he had learned .
yes , it seemed so simple in theory .
however , it could be hard in practice .
with careful planning , and the right preparations , he might just pull it off .
he got up , went back outside , and gazed down from his hill on the city below .
this time it would work .
this time he would be successful .
then he would rule napoli .
after that , he would rule island world .
days turned into weeks as darnay laid his plans .
if everything were n't just right , the other wizards would become suspicious .
if they became suspicious , then it was all for naught and he would not get another chance .
the evilness of his plan did not faze him .
as all men consumed with the lust for power , the ways of gaining it did not matter .
only its acquisition mattered .
once he had it , no one would be able to oppose him to make him pay for his crimes .
this illusion , more than once , has caused the strong to fall .
darnay continued his planning , oblivious to what he wished to create .
that his creation might prove mightier than he did not enter into his calculations .
he studied the moon charts and fastened on the proper night and time .
he penned the invitations with care .
there were only two .
one would go to jara , a wizard of the eternal flame who lived in napolaun .
the other went to surun , a wizard of that same order who dwelled near the white rock .
as he penned the last invitation , he went into the city .
he enlisted a courier to deliver the messages and returned to his cottage to wait .
in a week , the wizards would arrive .
that they would come , he had no doubt .
they would not be able to resist the lure he laid down .
like fish to a bug on the rivers surface , they would rise .
he spent the final week finalizing his plans .
he had to prepare the ruse .
the ruse would arouse the other wizards curiosity .
he had also to conceal his real purpose in inviting them .
he calculated the positions of the other two wizards , dug holes in those spots and placed the vats in them .
he then covered them with stout boards and a thin layer of soil .
he placed a wide mouth urn in a hole near his spot .
he honed his dagger to a fine , razor thin edge .
next darnay collected an immense quantity of wood and piled it in position .
it would be a tremendous pyre , large enough to pour its flames deep into the heavens .
the glass sphere was his last item on his list .
he visited the glassmaker in the city and ordered one , made special for his needs .
the glassmaker had balked at the exacting specifications .
darnay stipulated that it be a perfect sphere with a round hole and a stopper that fit tight .
it required enough strength to withstand the wind he would create and light enough for the flames to break it .
that done , he returned to his cottage .
in two days , it would happen .
in three , he would have his creature .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents a fiery birth darnay was finishing his preparations when he heard the knock on the door .
the first of his guests were here .
he walked to the door and opened it .
jara stood on the doorstep , a smile on his pudgy face .
darnay 's eyes swept to his companion , a vacuous eyed blond woman less than half the older wizards age .
he glanced at jara and again at the woman .
he knew the spell the old rake had performed on the woman .
it was only through such a spell that the fat , smelly old man could have seduced a woman like that .
through his disdain , he said , good evening , jara .
come in , come in . ''
stepping across the threshold , jara said , good evening , darnay .
i hope you do n't mind that i took the liberty of bringing a guest .
it is quite a spectacle that she will get to see tonight . ''
no problem , jara .
it is good that you came . ''
his eyes swept to the road to see an approaching horseman .
i think that surun has arrived . ''
a few moments later , he admitted surun to the parlor , seated him and placed a glass of wine in the wizard 's hand .
he took a glass , filled it , and sat down to visit with his guests .
the woman raised her glass , tipped it to her red lips and said , oh , this wine is simply divine .
the girls laughter trilled across the room .
darnay looked at her with disgust .
damn jara and his womanizing ways .
trilla , he had called her .
her irritating laugh was true to this name .
his invitation had not been to this tart .
only the two wizards were to have come .
she would be a distraction and a serious problem to his plans .
what would he do with her when his schemes were complete ?
it is the finest wine from the hills above the river , he said .
i have several bottles , so feel free to drink all you wish .
as he watched the girl drain her glass , he was sure that she would .
jara raised his own glass and allowed the bouquet of the wine to tickle his nose .
you have spared no expense , darnay .
this is a very good wine .
it isnt everyday that one attempts to raise a sun column , said darnay .
it is a special thing which calls for a celebration .
it is , indeed , said surun .
i have traveled a long distance to attempt making one .
darnay tipped his own glass and reveled in the wines fruity taste .
he glanced at surun .
was your trip a good one ?
it was .
the weather has been wonderful , and the land is alive with the ripening crops and fruits .
i took my time and enjoyed the journey .
it is rarely i leave the white rocks solitude .
darnay arose and refilled the glasses of his guests .
he would fill them up with this wine .
it would dull their senses and hide his real intent on his calling them here .
it will be worth your while , i am sure .
as the night wore on , the two guests and the girl drank the wine , not noticing that their host was drinking little .
finally , darnay arose and stepped outside .
he looked at the heavens and stepped back in the cottage .
the time is drawing near .
we should go out and take our positions .
the wizards arose .
the girl stood , swayed and sat back down .
oh , i think i have had a bit too much wine , she said .
come , my dear , said jara .
this is a sight that you do not want to miss .
he reached for her hand and pulled her to her feet .
he put his arm around her and helped her to the door .
the group made their way to the pyre that darnay had built .
there are stones marking your positions , he said .
jara and surun found their spots and stood , facing the pyre .
jara let go of the girl .
sit on the ground , my dear .
all you have to do is watch and you will soon see a sight few people have seen .
the girl sat on the ground .
she drew her knees up to her ample chest and allowed her robe to fall away , revealing her white legs , glowing softly in the moonlight .
it may be that we will spend the night here in the moonlight after our task has finished , said jara .
darnay looked overhead , at the moon now just minutes from zenith .
he withdrew his wand , and pointed it first at surun .
he threw a stupefying spell at him , and as the wizard dropped , he shifted position and flung one at jara .
the spell struck jara and he fell beside the girl .
the girl screamed .
darnay silenced her also .
she fell back , unconscious .
swift as the wind , darnay moved to jara .
he pulled the flat stone aside , pulled on the wizards hair and positioned his neck above the vat in the hole under it .
he withdrew his dagger and slit the wizards throat .
blood flowed into the vat .
he ran to surun and repeated the process .
he pulled the vats from the holes and ran back to his stone .
he retrieved the glass orb from its hiding place and poured the blood inside .
he then used the dagger to slice his palm .
his own blood dripped into the sphere , mixing with that of the other wizards .
his eyes again went to the moon .
it was at zenith .
he flicked a fireball at the pyre , which exploded in flames .
the sparks from the incinerating wood danced high in the sky .
darnay directed his wand at the glass orb .
a whirlwind formed around it .
the sphere rocked , then arose .
darnay directed the wind , carrying the sphere to the flames .
it lifted it above them .
the sphere hung in the air above the fire .
the heat shattered the glass and the blood floated above the flames , a red , swirling orb .
darnay then cast the spell .
the blood floated above the flames , and then the sparks of the fire combined with the blood .
a shape began to coalesce in the air above the fire .
faint at first , then it grew in intensity .
then it solidified .
darnay looked at it .
it was a monstrous looking thing , blood red with a single red eye .
he directed the creature away from the flames and allowed it to come down on the ground , near the girl .
as the creature lit on the ground , it opened its eye .
a blood red iris inspected darnay .
the creature opened its mouth .
a single word came out , gwaum .
it then turned about and saw the girl on the ground .
the girl was awakening .
when she saw the hideous creature , she screamed .
gwaum , said the creature .
he opened his mouth and grabbed her with his strong hands .
he plunged the girl head first , down his maw .
he turned back towards darnay and burped .
the monsters first meal was of human flesh .
it created a hunger for that meat that would never abate .
surun felt himself falling to the ground .
still conscience , he watched as darnay approached him .
he saw the dagger nearing his throat .
he had been a fool .
he never trusted darnay .
none of the wizards did .
but the chance at creating a sun column had blinded him .
he felt the sharp , burning pain at his throat and watched as his life drained away .
his soul separated from his body .
he floated away , towards the moon .
he forced himself to stop .
he wanted to see what it was that darnay was doing .
horror filled his soul as he watched the creature take shape .
so that was what darnay really wanted .
to create a monster that would be his slave .
surun flitted down and enveloped the creature .
there was power there .
too much power .
fear stabbed him .
he knew that darnay had awoken something with more power than he imagined .
surun knew that darnay would never be able to control this magical beast .
there was a reason for the council forbidding certain types of magic .
then surun felt the pull on his soul .
it was time to leave .
he wanted to go home , to see his little cottage at the base of mount qui one last time .
he sped over the sleeping countryside .
a countryside that would soon feel the wrath of the creature darnay had awakened .
he approached the white rock .
he would make his home here .
his soul would enter the rock .
by consigning his spirit to the white rock , he would protect it from the creature .
a part of himself was in that creature .
and that part would respect this final resting place .
the creature could not harm the white rock or the spirit that resided inside .
horror filled darnay as he watched the creature consume the girl .
the creature then looked at darnay and stepped towards him .
darnay pointed his wand at the creature .
the creature stopped and looked at the ground .
he stooped and picked up the dagger that darnay had let fall .
he examined it , like a small child inspecting a new toy .
darnay watched him carefully .
he realized that the creature was just like a young child .
it had been hungry and had fed on the first thing it saw .
that was all .
come here , gwaum .
darnay fastened on him that name .
it was the first word his creation had said .
it seemed an appropriate name .
gwaum approached him , still holding the dagger .
give me the dagger , gwaum .
he held out his hand .
gwaum approached .
he looked at darnay , his red eye studying the wizard .
he held out his hand and placed the dagger in darnays outstretched fingers .
gwaum , he said .
gwaum , gwaum .
darnay put the dagger back in his sheath and took the creatures hand .
he led him back to the cottage .
he would keep him inside tonight .
tomorrow he would fix a spot in the stable for him .
he would train him and teach him to speak .
as he studied the creature , satisfaction filled his eyes .
here was a creature for him to train and do his bidding .
he was strong and he felt a power in him as he held the hand of the creature .
there was magic there .
it was a magic that would soon do his bidding .
with this ally , he would be the supreme lord of this land .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents reversal he guided the fresh killed stag to the door of the stable and allowed it to fall .
gwaum , it is time to eat , he called .
gwaum came out of the stable and looked at the deer as it lay on the dirt .
he bent down and snuffed it .
instead of eating , the creature glanced at darnay and went back inside the stable .
darnay watched the creature skulk away .
in the several months since his birth , the creature had grown much bigger .
it had taken many stags to satisfy his appetite .
so many that the deer were becoming scarce in the area and darnay had to travel greater distances to hunt .
lately , the creature had been showing less interest in them .
the beast had never refused food before .
gwaum was feeding on something .
darnay wondered what .
he went back inside his cottage .
the creature was developing fast .
darnay had taught him much magic , adding to what the creature already had .
darnay felt a growing power in the creature .
this power troubled darnay .
he feared that the creatures power rivaled his own .
a knock on the door interrupted his thoughts .
he walked to the door and opened it .
alaab stood outside with two knights standing behind him .
good morning , alaab .
what brings you to my humble abode ?
alaab peered past darnay , trying to see what was inside .
there have been many disappearances in the city .
what has that to do with me ?
last night a woman disappeared .
a huge red creature ate her .
witnesses saw a huge red beast running up the mountain towards your dwelling .
i know nothing of this huge , red creature .
do you mind if we look around ?
again , alaab tried to peer into darnays cottage .
as a matter of fact , i do .
i will not have you and your lackeys , at this , darnays eyes scanned the two knights standing behind the wizard , pawing around my grounds .
it is better that you cooperate with me now , said alaab .
tomorrow i will come back with a company of knights .
you will have to then obey the dictates of the king .
i told you , i know nothing of this creature .
alaab stepped back .
he glanced at darnays hand , which was ready to withdraw his wand from his staff .
we also have reports of two missing wizards , surun and jara .
what of them ?
both of them told others they were coming to see you .
it was something about raising a sun column .
they were here .
we drank some wine .
we raised the column .
then they departed .
they are not here .
and you will not let us look around ?
i have already said i would not .
alaab turned to the knights and indicated that they should leave .
after they had remounted their steeds , alaab glanced at darnay .
we will be back tomorrow .
tomorrow we will search .
darnay closed the door .
worry crossed his face .
alaab and two knights he could handle .
however , a company he would not be able to stop .
it involved too much magic .
he thought about his problems .
he glanced at his journal and extensive records of his work producing gwaum .
he must hide them .
his immediate concern was gwaum he must take gwaum deep into the forest and hide him .
he was not ready yet to reveal his weapon .
he walked to the rear of the cottage and stepped outside .
he looked at the stable where gwaum was hiding .
he began walking towards the stable .
inside the stable gwaum brooded .
he had increased in power and size .
the power of the three wizard 's blood that he had absorbed at his conception flowed within him .
this power gave him the ability to read the mind of the wizard who created him .
he saw the plans this man had for him , a life of subservience .
gwaums ears picked up the knock on the door of the cottage .
he increased the range of his hearing .
the conversation between the two wizards interested him .
someone had seen him .
this was not good .
he listened to the remainder of the conversation .
he knew his masters thoughts .
his master would try to hide him deep in the forest .
gwaum did not want to hide in the forest .
his power had increased .
it was now greater than the wizard who professed his master .
gwaum would have no master .
perhaps now was the time to assert that power .
perhaps now was the time to gain even greater power by absorbing all the power of his master when he fed on his living body .
the stable door opened .
darnay stood , framed by the door , silhouetted in the light .
gwaum , you must come with me , the wizard said .
i must hide you in the forest .
they will come searching for you tomorrow .
they must not find you .
in the forest you will be safe .
i will not go , said gwaum .
darnay stepped back , and withdrew his wand from the handle of his staff .
you will do as i command , gwaum .
i will not .
darnay extended his wand and flicked a restraining spell at gwaum .
gwaum held his hand out , palm extended .
he caught the spell and reflected it back at darnay , who stood transfixed , held captive by his own spell .
it is time to reverse our roles , said gwaum .
i am the master now .
darnay tried to speak , but found he could not .
the creature approached him .
i have more power than you wizard .
i think you now understand that .
darnay , his eyes growing in horror , watched as the creature watched him .
he did not like the way gwaum was licking his lips .
i need your all your power , wizard .
i need it to complement my own .
darnay squirmed , trying to break free himself .
gwaum held him securely he could not even lower his hand .
i can absorb your power , wizard .
when i eat you , your body will sustain mine .
and your spirit will remain inside me .
darnays mind was in a daze .
this could not be happening .
that he now enslaved him , the creator of this creature , was terrible .
however , to think that his power would give this dangerous creature even more power was a horrible thing .
you have desired to master island world , master .
contempt dripped from his voice as he delivered the last words .
you will have your wish .
but it will be as my vassal .
at this gwaum broke the spell and clutched darnay in his powerful hand .
the creature opened his enormous maw and stuffed darnay inside .
the jaws closed and he swallowed .
gwaum stood for a moment , looking at darnays cottage .
he burped .
he strode off into the forest .
now , though , he did so as his own master .
gwaum would serve no one .
alaab expected a fight .
he advised the captain of the troop of knights to surround the cottage and have their weapons ready .
once everyone was in position , the wizard approached the front door .
he knocked , waited a few minutes and knocked again .
he pushed the door open , withdrew the wand from the handle of his staff and called out , darnay , we are here .
prepare to submit to a search . ''
only silence met his ears .
darnay ?
are you here ? ''
a tomb like silence answered his call .
alaab stepped back out and beckoned to the captain , who walked to his side .
is he not here ? ''
the officer asked .
apparently he is not .
i will search the interior of the cottage .
have your men stay ready if he comes back . ''
a nervous disquiet entered the man 's eyes .
he is a powerful wizard .
he can defeat my men with ease . ''
not if you surround him .
he can shield himself from your arrows and swords .
but , he can not attack you when shielded , and he can not attack so many men at one time .
it is too much for him to focus on . ''
if you say so . ''
the captain appeared unconvinced .
alaab reentered the cottage .
a lamp stood on the table .
he lit it , picked it up and began inspecting the interior of the cottage .
his eye fell on darnay 's desk , littered with books , scrolls and odd pieces of parchment .
his fingers fell on an open book in front of the chair .
darnay 's spidery script covered the pages .
alaab read a few lines .
dismay began filling his soul .
he leafed back further into the book , noting various entries .
his face grew white .
he closed the book and stepped back to study the shelves above the desk , lined with many volumes .
he walked back to the door and again beckoned the captain to come to the door .
you must send one of your men down to the city and fetch a horse and cart . ''
the man 's face bore a look of questioning .
there is much here that i must study .
be quick , before darnay returns . ''
the captain walked away and spoke to one of his men , who jumped on his horse and galloped off .
alaab returned inside the cottage and swept the desk and books with his eyes .
darnay had performed forbidden magic .
if darnay created the creature , then there was much to fear .
and alaab had no idea of how to stop it .
morning found alaab still at his desk studying darnay 's journal .
he glanced at the stack of scrolls , books and parchments on the table nearby .
worry ate at him .
the reports of a huge red creature feeding on people near napoli were accurate .
that he knew from darnay 's latest entrees .
darnay fed the creature a steady diet of deer from the forests .
this explained the complaints of the hunters who reported a shortage of game in the area .
the creature lost interest in game at about the time the first sightings of the creature occurred around the city .
this monster was no longer interested in animal flesh .
it desired humans .
alaab rubbed his eyes and thought about sleep .
he stood and walked to his window that overlooked the courtyard of the palace .
the sun was already well up .
the land of sleep he had not visited in well over a day .
reports from the countryside dribbled in about a red creature that terrorized the populace .
the king was gathering an army to oppose the creature .
alaab knew that the army would not prevail .
this creature was too powerful and would gain power as time passed .
the blood of three wizards flowed in his veins and fed the monster .
darnay did not return to his cottage .
the armed guard that kept watch there searched the forests around the cottage and found no trace of him .
alaab felt that he knew darnay 's fate .
if his fears were correct , then all darnay 's magic would be manifest in the monster .
he would be too powerful for the knights .
he would be too powerful for alaab .
only a consortium of three wizards would have the necessary strength to defeat the monster .
alaab needed help .
again , he glanced at the mass of documents and books from darnay 's trove .
these were not safe here .
this creature , gwaum , darnay had called him , would continue to gain strength .
no one would be able to stop him .
he must send this knowledge to niru , the hidden city .
he had to inform the council of gwaum 's existence and the means by which darnay made him .
he must also send for help .
he needed two more wizards of the golden star to defeat the monster .
there was one besides the grand wizard , beros , in niru .
another , tiran , abode in the barnish highlands near the mountain of seven rivers .
these wizards were so far away .
he only hoped that he could get them here in time .
the crewmen loaded the last crate of darnay 's records .
alaab watched as the crewmen of the ship steadied it as the hoist lowered it .
soon it would join the others in the hold and the trove would be on its way to niru .
his message to sluv , the grand wizard , had gone a few days earlier by a faster messenger boat of the king 's fleet .
by now , the grand wizard should have received his urgent request for aid .
it was possible the packet boat was already speeding back with the wizards .
now he must wait .
the king was impatient to strike at the monster that was ravaging the lands in the central part of the kingdom .
refugees were streaming into the capital , crying for aid .
alaab worked hard to keep the king from sending in his gathered army .
so far , he had succeeded .
the king was growing more restive .
alaab did not know how much longer he could restrain the monarch .
reports of the creature indicated it was growing stronger and moving closer to the city .
time , never on his side , was moving ever against him .
all he could do was wait .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents defeat gwaum watched from the forest as the wizard and knights searched darnays cottage and stables .
his hunger gnawed at him and he desired to feed .
this was a wizard surrounded by a company of knights and he dared not move against them .
not yet , he was still not sure enough of his powers to risk that .
he stayed his hand until the men left and then he descended the hill .
as he reached the bottom , he stayed within the bounds of the forest and followed the course of the road , going away from the city .
people were becoming skittish of him and he needed easier hunting grounds .
he approached a village .
on the outskirts , he found a small meadow , which bordered both the forest and the road .
there , under a tree , lay a young man and woman .
so engrossed were they in their lovemaking they did not see the approach of the creature .
he stood over them and watched .
the womans eyes opened and she saw gwaum standing over them .
she screamed .
the man rolled off , and looked into gwaums red eye .
terror enveloped his face .
he withdrew a dagger from his belt .
gwaum reached out his hand and grabbed the young man by the neck .
a cracking sound filled the afternoon air , and the man fell limp by the womans side .
he grabbed the womans feet and lifted her .
he dropped her into his open maw .
the young mans limp body followed hers .
gwaum turned and looked at the village that lay beyond the meadow .
here he would have easy pickings .
he could feed here at leisure until he learned to use all his powers .
he reentered the forest .
gwaum studied the silent streets .
hunger again bit his stomach and there was no prey .
his depredations over the last several days created an atmosphere of fear .
people no longer went outdoors , and when they did , they moved in large , armed groups .
gwaum could have attacked these people and fed .
but he was still afraid of those long , piercing birds the men flung .
he would await the night .
king rud peered at alaab as he stood before the throne , impatience painted on his face .
many weeks we have waited , wizard .
i have held back my army while this gwaum wrecks my kingdom .
many are calling me coward .
my subjects cry out for aid .
how much longer must we wait to satisfy your whims ? ''
alaab stretched himself to his full height .
they are not whims , sire .
if you move against gwaum without my aid , you risk disaster .
your arrows and swords will not kill gwaum .
by magic he was born and by magic will he die . ''
so we still await the arrival of the other wizards . ''
yes , your majesty .
it is the only way . ''
at that moment , alaab heard the throne door room open and the thump of footsteps as a courier swept past him .
the courier knelt before the king and handed him an envelope .
the king opened it , withdrew the letter inside , folded it and replaced it in the envelope .
he looked at alaab .
the ship carrying your wizard friends has arrived .
we march at dawn . ''
with a wave , he dismissed alaab who turned and left the throne room .
the arrival of tiran and beros was fortunate .
not much longer could alaab have delayed the king .
his footsteps carried him to the dock .
he noted the wizards carrying their snow white staffs with the golden star on the hilt .
they stood out from the crowd of people bustling around the wharf .
extending his hand , alaab greeted the wizards .
good morning , tiran , good morning beros .
it is good that you have arrived here in napoli . ''
beros peered into alaab 's face and noted the worry there .
from the sound of your letter , the situation seems dire . ''
my friends , it is worse than dire .
it is approaching the level of disaster . ''
at these words , alaab glanced around and his voice dropped .
we must go somewhere private to talk .
the king has kept this quiet as much as he could , to allay panic in the streets .
follow me . ''
their steps led back to the palace .
once inside , alaab secured a consultation room and asked the page to bring them some wine and cold meats .
they seated themselves around a small , wooden table in the center of the room .
how much do you know of this creature we battle ? ''
tiran said , only a bit .
the grand wizard told us that once here , that you would tell us what we needed to know .
he sent us away in great haste . ''
it is well he did , tiran .
we have need of haste .
the king is marching at dawn to face the monster .
we do not have much time for planning . ''
tiran and beros glanced at each other .
then tiran said , what do you propose we should do ? ''
the page entered the room carrying a tray with a platter of cold meats , a decanter of wine and three crystal glasses .
beros and tiran , whose fare for the last week consisted of ship 's fare , took little time demolishing the meat and bread .
alaab watched the two eat , his mind turning with the possibilities .
when the wizards completed their repast , alaab glanced at the page .
he said , bring another decanter of wine and some sweet cakes . ''
the boy picked up the tray and said , yes , m'lord , '' and left the room .
alaab swirled the wine in the glass and whisked his nose over the rim to bask in the bouquet of the fruity beverage .
he took a sip and placed the glass on the table .
sitting back in his chair he said , i have had a lot of time to think about how we should proceed . ''
his eyes drifted first to tiran , then to beros .
killing gwaum will be a difficult task and will require some powerful magic .
he was born of fire .
fire we must use to destroy him . ''
beros took a clay pipe from his pocket , stuffed it with fragrant weed and put the stem in his mouth .
he used his wand to flick a spark into the bowl and in a moment , a thin wisp of smoke swirled around his face .
his eyes met alaab 's eyes .
are you talking about a fire ring ? ''
yes , i think that is the only thing which will destroy him . ''
tiran rubbed his short , black beard with his fingertips , his face thoughtful .
that is a difficult thing to pull off under the best of circumstances .
we will be facing a fierce monster who you have indicated has powerful magic .
we will have to spring it quickly .
gwaum can not suspect that there are three of us . ''
he will be able to sense us .
how can we get close enough to ignite a fire ring and close it on him ? ''
i have an idea for that too .
we will have to trap him . ''
morning passed into afternoon , which transformed into night .
the wizards lay their plans .
when their plans were complete , alaab stood .
i must now go to consult with the king .
you have rooms prepared for you .
the page will take you to them . ''
as the wizards parted , alaab took beros ' arm and pulled him back .
if we fail , do not allow gwaum to capture you .
if he can consume three of us , he will be invincible .
he has already consumed darnay .
he needs two more wizards of the golden star .
if i fall , do not become the third .
you must flee this land if our plans come to naught . ''
we will , '' said beros .
make sure that you do .
if you do not , disaster will befall all island world .
flee and make your plans to fight another day . ''
the cottage stood apart from the village , at the edge of the tiny town .
gwaum could see the light of the lamps and the flickering hearth illuminated window .
he looked inside .
a woman sat in front of the hearth , her hand threading a needle .
a sock lay on her lap , ready to darn .
a man sat in a rocking chair beside her .
he was honing a knife on a strap of leather .
two children lay on a rug in front of the fire , reading from books by the light of the fire .
it was a cool , autumn night , and gwaum could smell the smoke of their fire as it filled the air around the cottage .
gwaum stepped back .
it was time to feed .
it was time to try out some of his newfound powers .
he extended his hands and waved them at the cottage .
the cottage began to shake , buffeted by the powerful wind gwaum generated .
the stones began to move and the roof blew off .
the woman and children inside screamed as their home flew apart .
gwaum watched as the stones flew .
one struck the man , knocking him lifeless to the floor of the cottage .
gwaum stepped forward .
before he could enter the ruined cottage , it disappeared and a cry arose .
he turned .
burning torches and shouting men in armor surrounded him .
he realized that the cottage was an illusion and that this was a trap .
a volley of those stick birds flew at him .
he managed a deflecting spell .
the arrows stopped in mid flight , and fell to the ground .
it was then he saw the wizard .
this was the same one who had visited his master .
it was alaab , a powerful wizard of the golden star .
he faced the wizard .
the knights launched another volley of arrows at him .
again , he deflected them .
the wizard withdrew his wand and cast a killing spell at gwaum .
he gathered it in his outstretched hands and deflected it away .
it struck one of the knights who fell with a horrible scream .
gwaum began backing away .
there were too many knights for him to beat off .
this wizard was an added menace .
gwaum tried to escape , but the knights , feeling a victory within their grasp , closed in upon him .
more arrows flew .
gwaum held his hands over his face to shield his eye from those terrible pricking missiles .
he became aware of another presence .
another wizard of the golden star came within the scope of his senses .
wait , there were two more .
gwaum realized his peril as the knights fell back .
he turned .
three wizards of the golden star were present .
gwaum sensed that he was now in terrible danger .
he turned in a circle , watching his adversaries with a wary eye .
with staffs extended , they began to chant the words of an ancient spell .
an orb of fire coalesced from the staffs .
they grew in size .
with a flash , the orbs expanded and joined into a circle that surrounded gwaum .
the circle grew smaller and smaller .
gwaum could feel the heat of the flames , felt it robbing him of his strength .
he touched the circle with his hands , trying to force it back .
pain shot through his body .
gwaum was not used to pain .
gwaum did not like pain .
he leaned back his head and searched for a spell .
a glimmer of hope flashed in his eye .
he roared .
a thick , vacuous cloud of dust shot into the air .
the dust cloud boiled and seethed as it absorbed moisture from the air .
lightning flashed and thunder resounded across the land .
a thick , heavy rain began to fall .
as the drops struck the circle of fire , red , stinking steam rolled .
the rain came down harder and the fire circle began to fail .
the rain became a torrent and the fire ring flickered and went out .
the wizards watched in dismay as their only hope to kill the monster failed before their eyes .
gwaum raised his arms and roared again .
a thick cloud of red dust escaped from his opened maw .
the dust swirled and choked the men .
the wizard dropped his wand and covered his mouth and eyes , to protect them from the choking cloud .
gwaum approached the wizard , who managed to open his eyes in time to see the crushing blow directed at his head .
gwaum turned and bellowed again .
the knights fled in terror at his voice .
tiros watched as alaab fell to the earth .
he shouted , flee , '' and spurred his horse .
gwaum turned and found that alaab was still alive , moaning and wriggling on the ground .
gwaum was happy at this .
the wizards power still flickered in his living body .
it would not live long , now .
he picked up the wizard , opened his mouth and dropped him in .
he swallowed and drew the wizard into his bowels .
he felt the power of the wizard suffuse through him .
the energy consumed defeating the wizards had sapped his strength .
exhaustion plagued gwaum and he had to allow the army and the other wizards to escape .
he lumbered back into the forest .
it would make no difference .
he would rest and defeat them another day .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents gwaum triumphant days passed while gwaum rested absorbing the power of the second wizard .
the escape of the other two wizards was unfortunate .
if he could have eaten just one of them , his power would be supreme .
as it was , he was still vulnerable .
gwaum did not like being vulnerable .
when his strength returned , he emerged from his forest hiding place .
he roamed the land , destroying villages and feeding on the inhabitants .
it was a terrible time for the napolani people .
but , the worst of his ravages was yet to come .
a large contingent of fierce knights , whom he still feared , continued to dog him ...
he could never hope to hold off all those stinging birds .
too many hits he feared would kill him .
gwaum had no intentions of dying .
as he felt his power grow , he knew that he would have to attack the source of that power .
then the land would be his .
at last , gwaum felt he was ready .
he returned to the cottage of darnay .
he watched napolaun from the heights of his masters home .
that would be his next target .
he had to destroy the king , and the castle .
this was the source of those troublesome knights .
the two wizards that escaped would almost certainly be hiding there .
as gwaum watched , he could see the army that had been following him gathering in the clearing below the hill .
there were a thousand men or more gathered their only purpose bent on destroying him .
gwaum could see the castle that held the king .
gwaum waited until the knights had formed up .
he bent his head back .
then he hesitated .
a single wizard stood on a hillock below him .
the fool .
he was alone .
before destroying the city , he would first feast on this foolish wizard .
he stepped toward him and extended his hand .
he paused again .
what was going on ?
tiran , his hands clasped behind his back , paced the floor .
his boots echoed on the stone floor of the room .
beros sat at the table , the loss of their friend alaab written on his face .
what shall we do , tiran ? ''
tiran stopped before the window that overlooked the plaza outside the palace .
a fountain stood at the center of the plaza .
two flagpoles , one bearing the flag of napoli and the other the royal standard , flanked the stone rim .
a powerful spring fed the fountain , which originated in the mountains above the city .
it produced a small waterfall before exiting into a stream that flowed to the nearby river fleet .
alaab said that if he fell , we should leave napoli , '' he said .
i do not want to leave the land defenseless against this terrible creature . ''
tiran turned to face beros .
there is little we can do now .
three of us could not stop gwaum .
two of us can do no more .
indeed , we place all island world in danger by remaining here . ''
then we should leave . ''
the king will not allow it .
he has commanded us to come up with another plan . ''
there is no other plan , tiran .
we can not conjure another fire ring and that is the only spell which will kill him . ''
as those words left his mouth , a knock sounded at the door .
tiran walked over and opened it .
a court page stood outside , his eyes fearful as he glanced at the wizard who towered over him .
tiran , his eyes betraying his fondness for children , asked , what is it you wish , lad ? ''
there is a man who wishes to see you .
he says his name is miron .
he says he is a wizard . ''
tiran glanced at beros , who nodded .
i know of him .
he is a wizard of the order of the encircling flame .
he is one of the most powerful of that order .
he resides here in napoli . ''
tiran returned his glance to the young page .
show him in , lad . ''
yes , sir . ''
the page ran off and returned with a few minutes later with a short , bald man in tow .
here he is sir . ''
good .
thank you , lad .
now run off . ''
the boy 's feet slapped the stone floor as he sped away , leaving miron and tiran looking at each other .
come in , miron , '' said tiran .
what can we do for you , '' asked beros as the wizard stepped in and closed the door .
miron looked first at tiran , then at beros .
i heard of the incident a few days ago . ''
who has n't , '' said beros .
the city is in panic and the king has pulled all the ships from the docks . ''
miron took off his hat and polished the buckle with a handkerchief he pulled from his pocket .
what have you decided to do ? ''
beros shrugged .
we have not yet decided .
there are only two of us .
it takes three to conjure a fire ring , the only way we know of to kill gwaum . ''
i can help you . ''
a smile played across tiran 's face .
you are not of our order .
how can you help us ? ''
the spell you need to deploy is one of our orders .
i know the spell well .
i can help you use it against gwaum . ''
beros and tiran exchanged glances .
we have already tried that spell with one of our own number .
we were not strong enough and gwaum overcame it . ''
miron shook his head .
you deployed it too slow .
to overcome the creature the spell you must deploy it fast and close it fast . ''
how do you know this ? ''
i have heard accounts of it .
i know of a way to raise it faster and close it quicker . ''
again , tiran and beros exchanged glances .
tiran rubbed his chin and glanced at the fire wizard .
can you teach us this method ? ''
yes , it is simple .
we can practice in the hills above napoli . ''
then let us go and practice .
i see no other solution . ''
miron smiled and said , i was hoping you would agree . ''
beros shrugged .
we have no other options .
it is this or to flee , leaving the land open to gwaum 's depredations . ''
miron , with a grave look on his face said , let us hope we are successful . ''
the three wizards left the room .
stars winked in the sky as the wizards returned to the city and returned to the palace .
tiran ordered the page to bring them supper as they entered their conference room .
that went well , '' said tiran .
i think we shall defeat him the next chance we get . ''
i do n't think that we will have to wait long before we get an opportunity , '' said miron .
he has been quiet for a few days .
this morning i heard rumor that he is starting again . ''
word has it that he is approaching napoli , '' said beros .
he is probably searching for us , '' said tiran .
beros slammed his fist on the wooden table .
he must not find us .
not before we are ready . ''
at that moment , the page , accompanied by two young women , brought their food .
the dishes and silverware clattered as they set out the food and drink .
the page stood by beros ' chair and asked , will there be anything else , sir ? ''
no , lad .
i think we will be fine now . ''
the boy smiled and the servers left .
the wizards filled their plates and dug into the food .
magic drains the body of energy and the three had spent the afternoon practicing fire circles , an intensive spell .
they ate with an enthusiasm borne of bodies depleted of calories .
tiran glanced at miron over an upheld glass of wine .
you know the area .
how will gwaum attack the city ? ''
miron paused as the pulled a leg of fowl apart , shredding the meat as he pulled it from the bone .
i think he will first visit the cottage of darnay .
he is familiar with that area .
it is where he was born . ''
that sounds likely , '' said tiran as he swallowed a choice bit of meat .
there is a small hillock below the cottage which overlooks the city .
one of us must go there . ''
beros nodded .
i will take that spot .
gwaum needs another wizard of our order .
i will act as bait to draw him in . ''
i will be in the cottage , '' said tiran .
in there i can shield my presence from gwaum .
he will not know i am there .
as i am not of your order , he will not sense me at all , '' said miron .
i can conceal myself in the forest .
we will thus have him surrounded . ''
this sounds like a good plan , said tiran .
i hope it is , '' said beros .
i think we will not have much time to pull it off .
gwaum will come anytime . ''
at this sober thought , the company of wizards fell silent .
their time was much shorter than they thought .
from a ravine that lined the forest , miron peered towards darnay 's cottage .
the wizards were all in place .
he only hoped that they were in the right place .
the sun was gathering its power , and the shadows were melting away .
he shivered in the dawn 's cool air , remembering the knock on his bedchamber door that awakened him .
one of the many spies deployed around the area reported that gwaum had entered the forest near the cottage the night before .
a brief conference between the wizards produced a unanimous verdict .
gwaum was ready to move against the city .
the army massed in the city below the hills to defend the city in case the wizards failed .
miron did not want to think about that possibility .
there could be no failure .
if the wizards could not kill gwaum , the army and city would be defenseless .
he crouched lower into the ravine as he heard the sound of tree branches cracking , as though thrust aside by someone passing .
in a moment , gwaum appeared at the edge of the forest , just feet away from the concealed wizard .
gwaum strolled to the center of the clearing and stopped .
he cocked his head .
miron tensed his body .
gwaum was sensing beros .
gwaum moved to the edge of the clearing and peered down .
the movement drew his attention .
the cottage door opened and tiran stepped out .
this was miron 's cue .
he scrambled out of the ravine and stood , wand pointing at the monster .
gwaum turned and saw tiran .
miron saw a smile flicker over gwaum 's face .
it was a hideous face with a hideous smile .
the creature walked towards tiran , then stopped and glanced at miron .
for a moment , the red eye showed surprise .
then the smile returned .
out of the corner of his eye , miron saw beros emerge into the clearing .
they were all in position .
with a roar , an orb of fire emerged from the end of miron 's wand .
his peripheral vision revealed simultaneous orbs from the staffs of the other two wizards .
the orbs expanded rapidly , meeting to form a circle .
miron focused his power on his portion of the circle .
it was for this that they had practiced .
the circle closed with a rush .
the wizards advanced , closing the circle .
gwaum , his eye betraying his fear , raised his head .
a red vortex of spinning dust emerged from his mouth .
the vortex expanded and surrounded the creature .
the spinning air met the closing circle of fire .
the explosion knocked miron backwards into the ravine .
a wall of fire flowed above him .
he heard it strike the trees , incinerating them as it passed .
miron waited .
there were no sounds to stimulate his ears .
he crept up the bank of the ravine and stuck his head up .
gwaum was kneeling , his back to him , over a pile of gray ashes near the edge of the clearing .
a jolt went through his body as he realized what that pile of ashes was .
his eyes roamed to the spot that tiran had stood .
another pile of gray ash was all that remained of the wizard .
miron felt his body go limp .
he rolled to the bottom of the ravine .
hot tears from his eyes melted into the soil , and sobs of grief , rage and disappointment racked his throat .
they had failed .
gwaum stood over the pile of ash .
gwaum regretted the incineration of the body .
the soul had departed and its magic dissipated .
gwaum had no use for this pile of ash .
a noise from the city gathered in his ears .
he stood and walked to the edge of the clearing and looked at the city below .
an army gathered in the city below him .
trumpets were blaring as the army prepared for gwaum 's assault .
gwaum smiled .
there was no need for him to charge into their swords and arrows .
his power had grown .
he could do it from here .
he leaned his head back and let loose a terrible sound .
an enormous cloud of red dust flew from his throat .
it gathered above the army below him and then it descended upon them .
the cloud obscured his vision for a short time .
when it finally settled , the soldiers lay scattered about .
their hands were on their throats and their eyes bulged from their sockets in the dead faces .
a smile crossed gwaums face .
he looked at the castle .
he let loose another , more hideous cry .
as the sound crossed the space between him and the castle , birds fell from the air , stricken dead with the force of the cry .
the wave of sound hit the castle .
for a moment it stood .
then the towers began to tremble .
with a loud roar , the towers fell , tumbling in on the rest of the structure .
dust arose and the cries of trapped people rang out amongst the streets .
terror filled people rushed into the streets from the surrounding buildings .
they watched the castle 's destruction and the death of their king .
gwaum let loose one cry after another .
many of the great buildings and halls of napoli fell .
the falling stones and huge wooden beams crushed the people who did not escape into the streets .
a red dust settled over the land .
the dust choked people in their homes and in their fields .
thus did gwaum destroy the fair land of napoli .
not all died that day .
many escaped into the forests and fields and survived .
not all the buildings fell .
some of the royal buildings and structures withstood the blast , but the red dust choked all .
the survivors provided gwaum with prey for five terrible years as he hunted them down in their hiding places .
the land soon all fell under his influence .
the red , stinking dust choked the river fleet and the once fair river reeked of its odor .
the harbor , once busy with ships from many nations , became blocked and deserted .
the fields and vineyards were barren .
many that gwaum did not consume died of starvation and disease .
terrible times emerged , wrought by a terrible monster , but worse times were to come .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents the road of terror gwaum stood in the middle of the ruined city of napolaun .
red dust covered the land and the river fleet stank with its polluted muck .
he was hungry .
for five years he had hunted this land , finally depleting it of prey .
no humans , or any other creatures , lived here anymore .
it was time for him to extend his range to the rest of island world .
he turned and looked upstream .
the last vestiges of the road that once connected napolaun with the mountains to the west were still visible .
gwaum could not abide water so he would have to cross the mountains .
he strode along the river on a road built by men , men who were now extinct .
soon the mountains stood before him .
he climbed the road that led to the top , to the source of the river fleet .
at the apex , he saw the white rock .
the dust did not cover it .
this rock defied his power .
he looked on the white rock .
it was beautiful , shining in the sun , reflecting its rays .
gwaum hated the rock .
he could feel a part of him calling to the rock .
his body flowed with the blood of three wizards .
perhaps the spirit of one of the wizards inhabited the rock , protecting it from his power .
he decided that it did not matter .
when he had finished destroying the country , perhaps he would then turn his attention to this last thing .
he turned again to the mountains to the west .
there lay his road .
beyond those mountains were lands inhabited by more humans .
there would be food to satisfy his hunger .
another need rustled in his mind .
his body contained the spirits of two powerful wizards of the golden star .
he had absorbed their power when he consumed them .
nevertheless , he was still vulnerable to their magic .
a powerful wizard of that order could still subdue him .
if he could find another and eat him , then he , gwaum would be invincible .
with the spirits and power of three wizards of the golden star , his dominance would be complete .
on the other side of these mountains there would be more wizards .
there would be many more .
he did not need many more .
he only needed one .
there was another reason for crossing those mountains .
there was a city of wizards somewhere over there .
the wizards who dwelt within him still strove against him , secreting certain memories from him .
he had inklings of this city from their thoughts , but they succeeded in concealing its location from him .
this city was dangerous to him .
as long as it existed , it was a danger to him .
twice wizards had fought him , and twice he had defeated them .
one had escaped .
at first gwaum discounted the escaped wizard 's importance .
it was n't until later that it occurred to him that this wizard likely carried knowledge of him back to this city .
even now , there might be wizards plotting to overthrow him .
the path through these mountains would be a difficult road .
gwaum would have to travel there many times for prey and to search for this city .
he would not dwell there , in those lands beyond the mountains .
his presence there would destroy those lands , as it had destroyed this one .
he did not wish obliterate those lands as he had napoli , as that would destroy his food source .
he needed only to destroy the civil order in those lands opening them to his depredations .
then he could hunt at will , while the inhabitants scurried and hid in fear of his presence .
gwaum pondered the distant peak of the nearest mountain .
he leaned his head back and bellowed .
the cry echoed across the valley .
he watched as the mountaintop began to shake , and then explode in bits of rock and dust .
the mountain crumbled , its rubble filling the chasm between the two mountains .
gwaum walked across the rubble and stood on top of the ruined mountain .
he could see another mountain in the distance .
he again leaned back his head and bellowed .
the road of terror took shape as the monster advanced across the mountains .
gwaum 's highway to the remainder of island world would be the final path for many of the terrified denizens of that world .
the small village of flynn lay , as it always had , at the base of the last of the great mountains of the ice mountain range .
the nehra river gurgled past the town on its journey to distant cleery and the sea .
jeson derth toiled on the mountain above the town .
his axe bit into a fine , straight tree , chips flying as the blade bit .
he loved the fragrance of the cloven wood and the metallic chunk sound the axe made as he cut .
this was a fine tree .
taren , the carpenter , would buy this tree from him to turn into fine furniture to ship downriver to the markets of cleery .
another sound made him quit his work .
it was a low rumbling , far in the distance .
jeson placed the head of the axe on the ground , and leaning on the axe , he peered upwards .
thunder ?
he could see no clouds anywhere .
the mountains had fickle weather and he would have to keep a close eye about so a thunderstorm would not find him on the slopes .
he returned to his cutting , the axe singing as it bit into the tree .
a slight shudder ran through the tree .
jeson stepped back and glanced up into its branches .
the wind caught it , and the tree began to fall .
he watched as the tree fell , brushing the limbs of its neighbors as it crashed downwards .
it hit the ground , bounced once , and then settled .
jared walked to the tree and sat down .
his exertions tired him .
sweat dripped from his brow .
he leaned his axe against the fallen trunk and sat down on it .
he sipped water from his jug and rested .
the late afternoon sun signaled that his labor for the day was almost over .
he would return tomorrow with his crosscut saw to slice the trunk into lengths the carpenter could use .
then he could hitch the horses to them and drag them to the sawmill by the river .
the rumbling sound had been constant , so much so that jeson had begun to ignore it .
if it was a storm , he did not care .
soon he would shoulder his axe and descend to the valley , to his cabin and waiting wife sareh .
he could almost smell the savory stew he knew she was making and taste it as it nourished his famished body .
swinging an axe all day built an ample appetite .
a crashing sound behind him drew him to his feet .
he turned to see the trees above him falling .
one was falling directly at him , threatening to drive him into the ground .
he turned and ran .
he felt the upper branches brush him as it hit the ground .
a loud roar covered the forest .
he stopped and turned .
a huge red creature gazed at him , its single red eye fastened on his .
jeson screamed .
then he turned and ran down the mountain with as much speed as his legs would give him .
he reached the village and ran to the tavern that lay at its center .
he burst through the door and cried , the monster of napoli has come .
he is on the mountain above the town .
jeers and laughter met him .
the monster of napoli ?
his friend turson laughed as he slapped jeson on the back .
that thing is a thing of childrens tales .
no one has ever seen that monster .
i have .
the words came from a man who sat at the end of the bar .
i have seen him , the man repeated .
i am napoli , and saw the creature destroy napolaun .
i barely escaped that city with my life .
jeson looked at the man .
is it a huge red creature with a single red eye ?
the question elicited a laugh from the crowd .
indeed it is .
you have seen it then .
it is here .
even if this monster exists , said turson , the mountains protect us from him .
he can not get through the ice mountains .
jeson glanced at his old friend and fellow woodcutter .
i tell you , i saw him .
he came crashing through the trees .
he will soon find our village .
we are not safe here .
the stranger spoke again , if he has come to this land , it is not safe anywhere .
this monster has destroyed my homeland .
he will destroy all he finds here too .
i am going home , said jeson .
i am going to get sareh and flee to cleery .
that is the first place he will go , once he feeds here , said the stranger .
once he destroyed napolaun he was free to devastate the rest of the country .
how do you know all this ?
i have had contact with many of my countrymen who escaped napoli .
the last escaped a couple of years ago .
gwaum has obliterated the city .
jeson stepped into the street and turned towards his cottage .
the others followed .
the crowd turned as a guttural roar came from the mountain .
they saw gwaum , bellowing in hunger , as he descended the mountain .
he smashed the first house he came to , reached inside and pulled a screaming woman from its rubble .
he opened his mouth and dropped her in .
the screams stopped and gwaum fixed his red eye on the crowd in front of him .
they scattered as gwaum strode towards him .
he grabbed the two slowest , one in each hand , and ate these unfortunates .
jeson ran to his home .
sareh turned as he rushed into the cottage .
sareh , gwaum , the monster of napoli has come .
he is in the town .
we must get out of this house and into the forest .
he ran to her and , above her protests , pulled her out the back door and into the forest .
they hid in a thick grove of brush .
they did not have to wait long .
gwaum soon appeared .
he glanced at the cottage and smashed it with his foot .
he peered inside .
seeing no one , he glanced around .
he looked towards them as they hid in the scrub .
in the failing daylight , gwaum did not see them .
he raised his head and sniffed .
luckily , the couple was hiding downwind of the monster , and he did not catch their scent .
gwaum lost interest in them and continued down the road towards his real objective .
he would destroy cleery by morning , before this king could raise an army against him or send for wizards .
then this country would be his .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents a plan cleery lay under a shifting cover of red dust , the people who inhabited it scattered in terror .
in a matter of days , gwaum destroyed the kingdom of torne .
he had searched the entire kingdom for the wizard city and did not find it .
just once , as he passed a broken down stone cottage on the road near that little town north of cleery had he sensed magic of some sort .
a close inspection satisfied him that there was nothing of interest there .
no one lived in the cottage .
the magic he sensed was probably a leftover spell from some wizard who had dwelt there in the past .
he stood on a hill overlooking the city and bellowed in triumph .
he paused , satisfied with his dominance .
the rains here would soon wash away the red dust of his conquest , but it would be many years before the people would forget the terror of him .
then he would return .
never again would this kingdom stand .
not as long as he , gwaum , was free to walk island world .
his task 's enormity revealed itself before his eyes as he stood on the crest of the mountain of seven rivers .
nuckland , the tropical kingdom at island world 's southern tip he had just destroyed .
soon the tropical vines would reclaim astralphalia .
the tropical rains by now had cleansed the land of the dust .
the city of wizards did not exist there , in that hot , humid land .
his search there was thorough and revealed no city .
the lands all around him as far as he could see beckoned to him .
to the east , the wild barnish tribes did not concern him .
distrustful by nature , these people had never trafficked much with the rest of island world .
he would destroy their city , truin , of course , and search the lands .
if this hidden city of wizards were there in those mountains , it would be difficult to find .
to the north and the kingdom of the ghronds , he next gazed .
he would go there after destroying the barnes , and then work his way south .
many weeks it would take .
he yearned for his home , across the mountains .
to feel the red dust beneath his feet and smell the smell of death brought pangs of homesickness .
he would endure this world only as long as he needed to stay here to destroy the kingdoms and find this city .
gwaum raised his face to the sky and bellowed .
a red plume of dust arose into the sky .
the wind caught it and whisked it away to the east .
the setting sun touched the dust with its rays and caused a red illumination over island world .
many in lands not yet touched by gwaum wondered at the sound that echoed across the mountains and deserts .
the red sunset , more intense than ever seen before , was the subject of many conversations across the lands .
the full impact of this warning only the residents of niru knew .
miron watched as the spreading red cloud enveloped the western horizon .
his ears caught the loud cry as it swept across the deserts .
behind him , the hidden city shimmered behind its concealing veil .
he glanced at his companion .
he is coming . ''
nerza , his hand shading his eyes against the rays of the setting sun , watched as the cloud swept over island world .
do you think he knows of niru ? ''
miron shrugged .
that i do not know .
i felt his power , not his mind . ''
miron glanced at nerza .
beros , was brave , nerza .
gwaum was too powerful for us . ''
he bested our greatest wizards , miron .
it is fortunate for us that you escaped to bring tiding to us of his strength . ''
sometimes i wish i had perished with the others , nerza .
gwaum inhabits my dreams . ''
we must return to the city , miron .
we must ready our preparations if gwaum comes . ''
we can not fight him , nerza .
there are not enough wizards of the golden star .
even if there were , it would not be enough .
gwaum knows what we need to do to destroy him .
he will be ready for another fire ring . ''
we can not allow gwaum to rampage at will through island world .
we must find another solution . ''
nerza stopped in front of the shimmering veil that was visible only to eyes attuned to magic .
somehow we must stop him , miron .
if we can not stop him now , we must keep him from finding the city . ''
the veil will be visible to his eyes . ''
yes , it will .
somehow , we must find a way .
come , sluv is convening a meeting of the grand council .
we must inform him of what we have seen and heard . ''
with a wave of his wand , nerza opened the veil and the two wizards stepped inside .
swift steps carried them past the plaza of the crystal obelisk , the source of the city 's power .
a fountain burbled forth from the ground .
it flowed into a silver pool and exited to the stream that soon again dove underground and continued its way to the sea .
it was this subterranean river that gave the nixes of the seas access to the hidden city .
the grand council chamber towered over the plaza .
the wizards entered the building .
.
a guard stood in front of each door , watching the wizards with impassive eyes .
nerza and miron displayed the secret sign and one guards nodded and moved aside .
nerza opened the door and stepped inside , followed by miron .
grand wizard slut nodded to nerza as he took his seat .
sluv stood and took his place behind the podium and rapped sharply .
the last of the council has arrived .
i call the meeting to order . ''
he paused and gazed over the assembly , which normally consisted of twelve wizards , three from each order .
there were only eleven , as gwaum had decimated the ranks of the wizards of the golden star .
there were only two others now besides he and nerza , both were in far lands and both in hiding from gwaum .
sluv cleared his throat .
i think you are all aware of the reason for the summons for this special session and i would like to thank you all for traveling to attend . ''
sluv paused and sipped at a crystal glass that sat near his hand .
we have heard rumors that gwaum is now moving through the kingdoms of island world . ''
at this , nerza raised his hand and sluv acknowledged him .
nerza stood .
miron and i have just come from outside the veil .
we saw a vast red cloud arising in the east .
we heard the cry of gwaum as he stood at the apex of the mountain of seven rivers . ''
a gasp ran through the assembly and a worried look spread over sluv 's face .
he is really on the move then .
we have reports that he has destroyed the kingdoms of torne and astralphalia . ''
the nix wizard moog arose .
what shall we do about this threat ? ''
his eyes fastened on nerza .
the most powerful wizards have already failed in their attempts to destroy him . ''
miron glanced at sluv , who nodded at him .
miron arose .
we can not destroy him .
as you know , i participated in the last attempt to do just that and barely escaped with my life . ''
moog looked at miron and asked , what do you suggest , then ? ''
to destroy him for us is impossible .
we do not have the means .
his mind touched mine for an instant during the conflict .
i sensed two of our number within him .
the spirits of darnay and alaab are inside him .
they are resisting him as much as they can .
but he knows niru exists . ''
the worried look on sluv 's face grew deeper .
he can not find our city .
if he destroys it , the last chance to resist him vanishes . ''
nerza folded his hands behind his back and spoke , if he does , there is the chance that he will locate another wizard of the golden star .
if he does that and manages to ingest one more of our number , he will be invincible .
there will be no stopping him . ''
moog , a thoughtful look on his face , said , how about using a mind spirit ? ''
sluv 's face turned from worried to questioning .
what is a mind spirit , moog ? ''
moog took a towel from the table next to him , dipped it in a basin of water that sat in front of him .
he dampened his skin with the towel , and then said , a mind spirit is a powerful bit of nix magic .
we use it when we need a particular type of nix wizard to perform a certain type of magic .
it is a slow acting spell , requiring several years to culminate . ''
we may not have several years , moog . ''
sluv 's face displayed impatience .
we do if we can implement the spell right . ''
how is right , moog ? ''
moog 's eyes roved the assembly .
we still have two members of the order of the golden star . ''
his eyes moved from nerza to sluv .
members of your order have capabilities of our order .
if we can trap gwaum near a river we can implant a forgetting spell which will make him forget any memories he has of the hidden city . ''
that would remove the threat of his finding niru , '' said sluv .
but gwaum would still be a threat to island world . ''
he would remain a threat for many years , '' said moog .
but when we implant the spell , we also remove a small portion of his essence . ''
sluv 's glanced at nerza .
is this possible ? ''
nerza nodded .
yes , this is possible .
it is also dangerous . ''
the grand wizard 's face regained its worried expression .
how is it dangerous ? ''
the essence would contain all the elements of gwaum 's spirit .
it would contain a small portion of gwaum .
it would also contain a small portion of the wizards he ingested .
we have to remove part of alaab and darnay 's essence . ''
why can not we just remove all his life force and kill him ? ''
there would be a great danger that the freed life force would enter into one of the wizards performing the spell .
we might just switch one danger with another .
we do not know what would then happen .
we might just create the thing we are trying to prevent . ''
sluv glanced back at moog .
what of the second part of your spell ?
this mind spirit ? ''
the wizards who remove part of gwaum 's essence will perform a special bit of magic which i will teach them .
it is in this way that we create a mind spirit .
the mind spirit consists of the special qualities which we impart in it . ''
what are these qualities ? ''
the wish to destroy gwaum .
silence swept across the assembly .
sluv , his eyes narrowed , asked , is a spell like this possible ?
it sounds like forbidden magic . ''
moog 's eyes narrowed as he returned sluv 's gaze .
the council can not make forbidden which it does not know about .
there is much about nix magic of which you do not know .
i only suggest this because it seems the only way to stop gwaum . ''
what then happens to this mind spirit ? ''
sluv 's face was a mix of curiosity and revulsion .
moog 's face did not soften .
we send it aloft to search . ''
what does this spirit search for ? ''
moog again used the damp towel to moisten his skin .
he replaced the towel on the table .
he looked up and said , when the father plants his seed in the mother and the new life takes form , the body and soul mate .
it is a mating which lasts until death .
the mind spirit searches the souls of those who are waiting for bodies and finds one with the special characteristics it needs .
if allies itself with this soul and together they mate with a body .
as the person grows , the mind spirit 's powers grow .
we can create a powerful wizard using a mind spirit . ''
it sounds dangerous , '' said sluv .
it can be .
this mind spirit would contain the essence of not only gwaum , but darnay and alaab as well . ''
that is two evil spirits against one good one .
could the bad outweigh the good ? ''
yes , '' said moog .
that is the danger .
however , the wizards who create the mind spirit will also impart part of their own essence as well .
the character of the person also comes into play .
if the person is a good person , the wizard we create will be good .
life experience also influences this wizard . ''
silence again pervaded the chamber as the council members digested moog 's words .
at length , sluv rapped the gavel .
what you propose , moog , sounds dangerous .
it is possible that it is our only course .
i think we should adjourn this meeting to discuss this among ourselves .
will someone motion to adjourn ? ''
miron seconded nerza motioned , and sluv rapped the gavel .
the meeting is adjourned until tomorrow morning . ''
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents showdown the dawn began awakening the desert .
gwaum liked the desert .
the sandy , rocky waste reminded him most of his home .
the frozen wastes of ghrond lay behind him , its capital city of ghree under a thick carpet of red dust .
the last of the kingdoms of island world , naul , awaited his attentions .
gwaum 's eyes swept the banks of the aeol river .
he could not abide water .
he spied a bridge just above the city , which lay on the other side of the river .
the city appeared deserted in the early morning light .
word of his passage must have preceded him .
it did not matter .
he would destroy the city and then he would scour the sands , searching out refugees .
he would find and kill as many as he could , imparting his terror to the populace and destroying the will to resist .
as he approached the bridge , he scanned the opposite shore .
the vegetation near the shoreline could conceal a threat .
gwaum did not worry about threats .
the most powerful wizards in island world could not stand against him .
after pausing for just a moment , gwaum began crossing the bridge .
as he neared the shore , he felt the growing presence of one of those wizards .
he grew alert .
his foot touched the ground and he stopped and sniffed the air .
there was someone here .
maybe there were two of them .
he continued his pace and stopped again .
there were two of them .
gwaum smiled .
this would be easy .
three wizards sat around a wooden table in the grand wizards private chamber .
a fourth basked in a large wooden tub filled with fresh , clear water near the table .
sluv glanced at moog as he ducked his head beneath the water .
is that suitable for you , moog ? ''
the nix surfaced and smiled .
yes , grand wizard .
it will do .
it is better than that nasty towel . ''
sluv filled the glasses of the other wizards from the wine decanter that occupied the center of the table .
he glanced at nerza .
you have studied darnay 's records .
what do you say about this mind spirit '' spell ? ''
nerza glanced at moog .
i do not like it .
it touches forbidden magic . ''
moog leaned against the backside of the tub , his eyes focused on nerza .
do you have an alternative idea ? ''
nerza shook his head .
i do not .
i have studied darnay 's journals and records .
gwaum has few weaknesses that we can exploit .
his aversion to water is the only weakness i can find . ''
sluv 's eyes lit at nerza 's words .
the last we have heard , gwaum is moving into ghrond .
to get to us from there , he has to cross the aeol river .
if he can not touch the water , he must use the naru bridge .
we can destroy the bridge when he is on it .
we can let the river destroy our enemy . ''
nerza shook his head .
the water of the river would destroy him , it is true .
his destruction would corrupt not only the aeol , but all bodies of water touched by it . ''
the seas , also ? ''
nerza shrugged .
that i do not know .
the rivers of island world connect each other using an underground lake under the mountain of seven rivers .
it would corrupt all the rivers of island world .
we can not use the water of the river to destroy him . ''
sluv glanced at the fourth occupant of the room .
you are the only one here who has battled gwaum , miron .
what do you think ? ''
miron sipped at his wine and rolled the stem of the glass between his hands before placing the glass back on the table .
like nerza , i do not like this spell .
we would be creating something that we can not control .
who knows what this mind spirit will do once we create it and set it free .
you say you can implant a forgetting spell .
if you can do that , why not just wipe his memory clean .
then gwaum would pose no threat at all .
he would forget what he is . ''
nerza shook his head .
a full memory wipe is a tricky spell which requires many hours to complete .
we will have only a moment to do our work .
we will be lucky if we can excise only one memory . ''
putting his hands on his hips , miron leaned forward .
i do not like it .
we must find another way . ''
if there is another way , i do not see it , '' said nerza .
sluv rubbed his chin .
it seems we are at an impasse .
a solution appears that we do not like , which may well turn on us .
but it is the only solution i see . ''
moog dunked his head once more under the water .
when he resurfaced , he again leaned against the back of the tub .
then i suggest we place the proposal before the full council in the morning .
let them know all the facts and allow them to decide . ''
moog glanced at nerza .
you , who best know the lore of gwaum , can find no better solution . ''
nerza folded his hands in front of him on the table , studying his nails with a faraway look in his eyes .
at length he spoke , i see no better solution , moog .
gwaum is too powerful for us to try to destroy by ourselves .
he has defied our best wizards twice . ''
he shifted his gaze to moog .
i will support your plan before the council .
i only hope i do not regret the decision . ''
the grand wizard turned his face towards miron .
are you in agreement , miron ? ''
i see no other alternative , grand wizard .
i only regret that i can not take part in the operation . ''
no , you can not .
this is a job for moog , nerza and i . ''
he again looked at moog .
how long will it take you to teach us the necessary magic ? ''
not over a week , i should say .
you are both well versed in how our magic works . ''
our biggest problem will be knowledge of when gwaum approaches .
we must take our positions before he enters the city , '' said sluv .
the river will block our presence .
gwaum will not sense us until he crosses the bridge .
it is then that he will be most vulnerable because at that point we can surprise him . ''
moog looked troubled .
how will we know when he approaches ? ''
i think i can solve that problem , '' said nerza .
my experiments with yuhma birds may prove useful . ''
the grand wizard turned quizzical eyes on nerza .
yuhma birds ?
what are you doing with those things ? ''
the yuhma bird can find its way home from long distances . ''
that has been known for a long time , '' said miron .
i have trained some birds i captured as squabs .
they will return to me , where ever i am , not to just a specific point . ''
i do n't see the use for that , '' said moog .
my experiments also involve sending them to people and have had limited success with that .
it seems i have to know the person i send the bird to . ''
again , i do not see the point of this , nerza .
what good are birds which can visit people ? ''
a smile crossed nerza 's face .
if you tie a note to the bird 's leg , it can carry it to any person i know .
the person can write a reply and send the bird back to me . ''
sluv 's face erupted in a smile .
that is ingenious , nerza .
how far along is this work you are doing ? ''
the birds will return to me every time .
i still have difficulty sending them out .
we can post lookouts north of the river .
when gwaum approaches , the lookout can send a bird to me , alerting us .
we can then move into position . ''
it sounds like a workable plan , '' said sluv .
in the morning we will have a proposal to put before council . ''
miron eyed the now empty wine decanter on the table .
it has been a long day and i am hungry .
i motion that we move our meeting to the sand 's edge inn . ''
i will second the motion , '' said nerza .
moog stood , the water dripping from his skin .
i will be leaving your company .
i need to immerse myself in the river and i do not like human food . ''
we will see you when we adjourn tomorrow , then , '' said sluv .
amid renewed optimism , tempered with the seriousness of their plans , the wizards retired to the inn .
the bird returned at dawn , bearing the note from miron .
nerza untied the leather thong which secured it to the bird 's leg and read it .
he glanced at sluv .
it is time , '' he said .
the wizards walked with haste to the river and summoned moog .
we will conceal ourselves in the undergrowth along the river , one of us on each side of the road , '' said sluv .
he glanced at moog .
as long as you are in the water gwaum can not sense you . ''
i must stay in the water to work my magic , '' said moog .
we can not allow gwaum to go far from the river . ''
we will intercept him as soon as he comes off the bridge . ''
sluv glanced first at moog , then at nerza .
we will have only a moment to work our magic .
we must spring the mind trap before gwaum is able to discern what we are doing .
then nerza and i must run from gwaum so he does not capture either of us .
if he does , all that we have done is for naught . ''
the wizards concealed themselves and waited .
they did not have to wait long .
nerza tensed as he saw gwaum approach .
the creature eyed naru from the opposite bank of the river .
nerza regretted that they would be unable to stop naru 's destruction .
they had done what they could and the people had fled , hiding in places deep in the desert .
gwaum began to cross the bridge .
as he reached the south bank , nerza emerged from the underbrush .
gwaum was facing him .
he stopped when he saw the wizard .
he could see sluv emerge from the underbrush behind gwaum , who turned and saw the other wizard .
out of the corner of his eye , nerza saw moog emerge from the water .
gwaum would not be able to detect moog , as he was not a wizard of the order of the golden star .
it was up to moog to make the first move .
nerza pulled the wand from the head of his staff and pointed it a gwaum .
he could see sluv do the same .
he watched as a smile emerged from gwaum 's face .
the monster raised his hands above his head .
moog directed his face at gwaum .
his face was impassive , eyes focused .
gwaum jerked as moog 's mind touched his .
in an instant , sluv and nerza extended their minds and connected with moog 's in the mind of gwaum .
they sprang the mind trap .
for a moment , nerza was aware of alaab and darnay 's presence .
the two wizards sensed their need and the memory they sought surfaced .
nerza touched that memory and with a flash , it vanished .
one last task remained .
the three wizards strove together and clutched at a small piece of gwaum 's essence .
with a mighty effort , the wizards tore it free .
in the process , a small portion of their essence tore loose .
the tiny pieces of soul combined and broke free of gwaum 's body .
for a moment , the small silver orb hung above gwaum .
then it rose and disappeared into the sky .
now the danger lay open to the three wizards .
gwaum , whom taken by surprise , began to resist .
nerza felt the power of the creature as it strove to capture his soul .
a struggle now ensued between the three wizards trying to extract their minds from gwaum and the creature who wished to keep them .
gwaum drew nerza 's mind from is body .
nerza resisted .
if gwaum succeeded , then their struggle would be in vain .
like an earthworm resisting the hand that tries to pull it from its hole , nerza clutched at his soul .
he felt the will of the creature weaken .
it was struggling against three powerful wizards and it was now losing .
nerza felt himself recoil backwards .
he hit the ground , a sharp rock cutting into his buttocks .
he felt consciences slipping from him .
he could not faint .
nerza saw sluv also hit the ground .
the older wizard lay still on the ground .
nerza fought off the vertigo and halted the spinning of the world .
he saw gwaum , dazed but still conscience , turn .
the creature saw sluv , lying helpless on the ground .
the creature staggered , almost fell , righted himself and walked towards sluv .
he reached down to grasp sluv 's ankles .
no . ''
the cry escaped nerza throat .
with a flick of the wand , he flung his most powerful killing spell at gwaum .
the spell struck gwaum and exploded .
nerza stood watching .
the smoke cleared .
sluv 's lifeless , charred body lay at gwaum 's feet .
gwaum , dazed by spells ferocity , turned towards nerza who turned and ran as fast as he could run .
he ran until his lungs burned like the sand upon which his feet trod .
at length he stopped and turned .
gwaum was nowhere in sight .
nerza dropped to the sand .
they had won .
nerza knew that they had won .
he closed his eyes and wept .
gwaum stared down at the dead wizard at his feet .
so close , he had been and again denied .
he turned to see the other , younger wizard run .
gwaum tried to follow , but the effects of the spells worked on him by the trio of wizard and the killing spell had exhausted him .
he sat down on the rocky sand , his heavy body thumping as it struck the ground .
he glanced at the city .
after he rested , he would destroy it .
that had been his task before these wizards accosted him .
he wondered at their purpose .
it had cost one of them his life .
he shook his head .
there was another thing that he had sought , but he could not wrap his thoughts around it .
at length gwaum stood up .
whatever it was , that memory was gone .
he glanced again at the city .
this was the last one , the last of the remaining five kingdoms of island world .
when he destroyed it , he would be able to go home .
he closed his eyes and remembered the vast red landscape .
he walked toward the city .
he would enjoy his land once more .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents the tale ends the fire burned low as nerza finished the tale .
the stars above had shifted and the darkness of full night descended .
arii , his eyes reflecting the last shards of flame , gazed at nerza from across the fire .
that was a terrible story . ''
nerza shifted and stretched his legs .
it was a horrible defeat for our order that day .
four wizards of our order lost to the ravages of gwaum , with two consumed by the creature .
the order of the golden star has never recovered from that loss . ''
what happened to miron ? ''
he escaped gwaum and made his way to the southern coast of napoli .
he managed to board a fishing boat filled with refugees escaping from napoli .
he carried his tale to niru .
that is how we know of the sad events and the fate of our brother wizards . ''
gwaum then went on to ravage the entire country ? ''
we believe so .
some of the barnish tribesmen have made their way into the land over their secret mountain ways .
they have brought back tales of a land covered in red , burning dust .
none can bear traveling far in that desolate land . ''
what of the rumor of those who escaped ? ''
nerza shrugged .
as i have said , that happened when i was away .
if it is true , they have hidden themselves well . ''
feraun said , island world is better off now that gwaum has gone . ''
if he is truly dead , '' said nerza .
we do not know that for sure . ''
he has not returned or heard of since . ''
island world is a big place , feraun .
there are many places for him to hunt .
his raiders still come here . ''
feraun said , gwaum trained them to raid , nerza .
if that is all they know they might continue even after gwaum 's death . ''
nerza leaned towards the dying fire , warming his hands on the leftover heat of the coals .
we will have to deal with them .
if gwaum is dead , the land of napoli will recover .
others may want to go there .
it was a good land before gwaum . ''
feraun stood up .
the night is passing and morning will come soon .
all this storytelling has tired me . ''
thus , the night and the tale ended , but the story of gwaum goes on .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents captives turson stin watched as his wife removed the pot from the fire .
the savory meat smelled delicious in the confines of his refurbished cottage .
gwaum had destroyed the roof in his search for food .
luckily he and his wife were at the inn when jeson came bursting in with his horrible news .
this was the news that he , turson , and the others had made fun of them for delivering .
turson was not laughing now .
the thought of his friend caused him some concern .
sareh was pregnant and jeson would not bring her in from the forest .
he kept saying that they were not safe here and that gwaum would return .
it had been many weeks and the creature had not come back .
the remaining villagers came out from hiding and began repairing their cabins .
winter would be coming in a few weeks and none had the desire to stay in the forest during the cold snows .
he recalled his conversation the previous day with jeson .
i am leaving , jeson had said .
i am taking sareh far away from this place .
but the monster is gone , turson had replied .
no one has seen him for many weeks .
i have found his road on the mountain above the village .
he will return .
i have gathered some horses , turson .
come with us .
you and sali are in danger here .
this is our home , jeson .
our families are here .
we can not just pick up and go .
i have gathered supplies , turson .
tomorrow we will leave .
be at the ridge above the village at dawn .
bring your horses .
we will leave together .
turson finished his meal and glanced at sali .
jeson and sareh are leaving flynn .
they will go tomorrow .
do you want to go with them ?
salis eyes sought his .
do you think it is safe here ?
jeson does not think so .
he says he has found a road the monster carved through the mountains from napoli .
he thinks the monster will return to his home that way .
why would the monster want to go back to that desolate place ?
he has destroyed it , the tales say .
turson stood up .
that i do not know .
but jeson thinks that the monster would not have gone to the trouble to build such a road if he did not plan on returning .
turson went to the window that looked towards the east .
he could see the road that led to what was left of napoli .
sali , i think jeson was right .
sali joined his side .
gwaum was standing in the road , looking at the town .
they could hear the screams of the people outside .
they watched in horror as gwaum began rounding people up .
he forced one young man to bind the hands of the captives behind their backs .
gwaums eyes were scanning the cottages .
hide in the pantry , commanded turson .
sali ran to the pantry and crouched inside .
turson joined her and pulled the door shut .
a moment later , gwaum ripped the roof from their home .
they could hear the sounds of their furniture smashing as gwaum groped about inside .
turson could hear the fingers find the pantry door .
a moment later , he tore away the door .
strong fingers clutched tursons ankles pulling him from the pantry .
salis screams filled his ears .
gwaum took him to the other captives .
a moment later , sali joined him .
a rope bound their wrists and another connected their necks to the rest of the captives .
turson noted that most of the remaining residents of flynn made up this terrible chain .
he watched as gwaum approached the last remaining undamaged cottage .
gwaum tore the roof off and after a brief search , he pulled sarehs mother from the cottage .
he examined her , and then dropped her into his opened mouth .
turson heard a scream from the slope above the village .
sareh had witnessed the death of her mother .
he watched as gwaum started towards the sound of the scream .
rock outcroppings studded the meadow .
as gwaum approached one of these , he saw fergson eils run from one of the rocks in his path .
gwaum grabbed him and returned to the string of captives .
he added ferguson to the chain .
gwaum returned to the meadow .
he approached the spot the scream had come from .
he brushed aside the tree branches and peered into the forest .
after several minutes of searching , gwaum returned .
he pushed the leader of the chain , compelling him to walk .
gwaum drove them like cattle up the mountain road .
darkness fell , but still they plodded on .
turson was weary .
twice he did his best to pull sali to her feet after she had fallen .
the night was a night of terror , walking to whatever their fate was along a dark road , the monster prodding them along with a long pole .
by morning light , they reached the end of the road .
turson could see only a stark , red landscape around them .
a tired weakness consumed him .
the monster signaled that they could rest .
one by one , the captives lay on the cold , stony ground .
turson could see the only feature that was not red , a huge white rock glistening in the morning sun high on the crest of the mountain .
the monster appeared undecided .
he stood looking across the red landscape .
finally , he decided .
he pulled the leader of the throng to his feet and pushed him .
the rest stood up and began the trek down the mountain on the steep , narrow road .
hours passed and still the throng moved on , prodded by the monster .
when one , weakened by the lack of sleep , water and food , he threatened to pull the entire chain of people down the mountain .
always gwaum pulled the person up and the torturous journey continued .
when they reached the bottom , gwaum again allowed them to rest .
turson felt himself slipping into a deep , troubled sleep .
there were enough captives to keep him fed for almost a month so he would not have to hunt for some time .
he could enjoy his home for a few weeks before coming back to this place .
gwaum was happy as gwaum could be .
as he herded the captives across his road , a worry erupted in his mind .
it was something that had not occurred to him .
these humans would have to eat and have fresh water .
it was a problem that had not occurred to him .
the problem occupied his mind as he plodded behind the slow moving throng .
he wanted them to go faster .
however , the ropes that bound their hands behind their backs and the ropes that led from one neck to another hindered them .
the females were the problem .
they were smaller and weaker .
they would not last so long and he would have to eat them first .
as the last of the humans passed the white rock , gwaum decided upon his course .
at the end of the river fleet , the great city lay in ruins .
there was still a clear spring near the city .
it was beside the bay that led to the great water .
the bay had reopened here , and fish still swam in its waters .
that was the point to which he would take his captives .
it would be a long trek for the captives .
many would collapse along the way .
gwaum noted this in his mind .
future captives must carry food and water with them to sustain them along the way .
gwaums eyes swept the throng .
already several were weakening .
these he would feed on first .
turson stumbled along in the hot sun .
in front of him sali walked , swaying unsteadily at times as the effects of no food or water sapped her of strength .
from time to time turson could hear the screams of an unfortunate who would fall , and not have the strength to rise .
gwaum would grasp the hapless person by the ankles and pull hard .
the head would snap off .
and he would dangle the body over his enormous mouth and drop it in .
as the sun climbed higher , turson saw sali throw back her head .
she fell .
turson surged forward , pulling the captives behind him along in his desperation .
he bent down , sank his teeth into the collar of her dress , and pulled her to her feet .
she moaned , tried to fall again , but turson would not let her .
finally , she began again to stumble forward .
the sun climbed higher .
thirst and hunger consumed turson , but still he plodded on , his eyes glued to his wife .
his fear intensified when she fell again .
once more , turson plunged ahead .
the rope around his neck burned like fire as it ripped the flesh away .
he paid no attention to the pain .
again , he bit the collar of her dress and pulled her up .
she stood on wobbly legs .
sali , you have to stay on your feet .
walk .
please , sali , walk .
you can not leave me .
gwaum was hovering close , watching the woman .
sali raised her head and saw him .
she again began to walk .
the sun began its downward descent .
the horrible cries of the captives as he drove them along the old road pierced tursons brain .
he focused on two things , keeping his feet moving forward , and watching his wife .
gwaum was hanging close to her , as if he knew she was about to fall .
when she did , he moved quickly .
turson moved faster .
again , he clenched her collar in his teeth and pulled her up .
sali stayed unconscious .
turson could not hold her .
he felt a tooth snap and she started to slip .
he shook her like a dog shaking an animal .
gwaum loomed over him and began reaching down .
sali awoke .
she put her remaining strength in her legs and stood , leaning against turson .
gwaum hesitated .
he looked at the sun , which was lowering below the horizon .
he had eaten his fill and did not want to eat this woman .
better to let her rest .
tomorrow he was sure he would get her .
he would be hungry then .
gwaum untied the last man in the sad procession .
he indicated that he was to untie the others .
they were weak and gwaum did not fear that they would try to run .
there was nowhere to run anyway .
if they tried , he could run them down and eat them .
turson and sali lay together in a deep depression .
the red dust coated their bodies and clawed at their throats .
tursons neck burned from red , bleeding scrapes left by the ropes when he lunged to rescue sali .
after a time , he revived a bit and raised himself up on one elbow .
he watched sali sleep .
she was bloody where the ropes cut her , and had a nasty cut on her forehead that struck a rock when she fell .
covered with red dust and bruised .
he reached for her hand .
she stirred in her sleep .
she would never make it .
he did not know their destination .
the way the monster was driving them , he could only guess that the place was distant .
what he wanted with them turson did not know .
he could only guess at the horror of their fate .
he heard a noise behind him .
he turned .
gwaum stood behind him , glaring at him with that terrible red eye .
the monster reached for him and grabbed him .
he pulled him out to the middle of the remains of a river .
the ground was mushy and it stank .
there were others here , all men .
gwaum indicated that they should dig in the banks of the river .
turson , using his hands , began to dig through the top layer of red muck .
under this layer , he hit a dark layer of dirt .
this was soft and yielded to his hands .
there were stones that cut , but he kept digging , as did the others .
the dirt gave way to a layer of sand .
turson stopped .
in the dim light of the gathering evening , he could see water welling into the bottom of the hole he had dug .
fresh water .
life sustaining water .
he cupped his hands and scooped some up .
in this way , he drank his fill .
the others around him were doing likewise .
turson stood and ran to sali .
he pulled her to her feet .
let me alone , turson .
i want to die .
sali , there is water .
come , you must drink .
you will feel better if you drink .
he pulled her along , over her protests .
he led her to the hole he had dug .
other men were doing the same , leading their wives and loved ones to water .
together they drank their fill .
by digging further , he found grubs and worms living in the soil .
he looked at the handful of wriggling creatures .
disgust filled his soul .
he must eat .
sali must eat .
somehow , they would survive .
for what fate they were saving themselves , he did not know .
determination that the monster would not feed on him or sali drove him .
he would spend his last strength resisting the monster .
he thrust the handful of grubs into his mouth and cringed at the earthy , bitter taste .
he dug more and thrust them at sali .
she looked at them , her eyes brimming with revulsion .
i can not eat those , turson .
you must , sali .
you must eat them .
we have to maintain our strength .
why ?
so we can serve as either food or slaves for gwaum .
it is not for our benefit that he has saved us .
there is always hope , while we live sali .
hope for what , turson ?
hope that we can escape this dreadful place , sali .
we will escape .
you and i will flee this horrid place .
we will go back to torne .
we will live to tell our children of this place .
sali looked at turson .
a smile lit her tired features .
for you turson , i will eat those repulsive worms .
and in payment , you had better lead us to freedom .
i will sali .
i will get us out of this terrible place .
as he said the words , turson had no idea how he would keep his promise to his wife .
perhaps this was their destination .
turson looked around at the survivors .
almost a third of the captives had collapsed along the way , devoured by the monster .
it had taken many terrible days to walk to this place .
each evening the monster had camped on the side of the former river .
each night the captives had dug holes to find the rakish water that had taken refuge beneath the red soil .
the others had discovered tursons food supply .
they took advantage of the slimy , repulsive creatures there .
vile though they were they gave life to the prisoners .
with life came hope .
the monster was keeping them alive , though for what purpose none dared to guess .
the answer to that question would have distilled the terror from their souls .
there was water here , and the captives drank freely from the spring .
then all lay on the only patch of green grass left in napoli .
turson could see the bay of napoli below them .
they were in a huge , open area .
gwaum freed the hands of one of the captives and indicated that he was to free the others .
they were too weak for gwaum to fear that they would try to escape .
after they were free , gwaum walked to the edge of the bay .
he extended his hand and a fireball emerged from his palms and struck the water .
fish , stunned by the blast , floated to the surface .
gwaum looked at turson and pointed to the fish .
turson understood .
he waded into the water and began gathering the fish .
this , then , was how the monster wished to feed them .
sali turned her head and said , no , turson , i can not eat raw fish , no matter how hungry i am .
sali , you have to eat .
you have to regain your strength .
why , so that monster can wait a few days more to eat me .
i am sorry , turson .
i will weaken and let this horror end sooner .
turson took a bite of the fish , chewed and swallowed it .
it is not so bad , sali .
please , eat some .
sali shook her head .
no , turson .
i will not eat .
turson studied his wife .
she was dirty , her clothing torn and stained .
her eyes no longer had the spark that had made him fall in love with her .
sali , we can escape .
i know we can .
but you have to eat to get your strength back .
escape ?
how can we hope to escape ?
this monster will see us go .
besides , here her eyes sought out one of the other captives , that scum veral guards us .
turson stole a furtive glance at the man who sat on a rock , dagger held in his hand , watching the captives .
it seems that the monster has gotten a hold on our friend and turned him against us .
a way of escape has occurred to me .
how , turson ?
how can we escape ?
we have to stay strong , sali .
make sure the monster doesnt eat us too soon .
some of the others are too far gone .
he will choose them first , saving the strongest for last .
if we stay strong , we will be among the last and we may see a chance to get away .
even if we do , turson , the creature will track us down .
we have to keep up hope , sali .
it is all we have .
again , turson held a strip of the fish in front of sali .
she looked at turson and smiled .
all right , my dear .
for you i will eat .
for you i will keep up hope .
if only to watch you die at the hands of that horrible creature .
she took the proffered fish .
she stuck it in her mouth , chewed it and swallowed .
that is terrible , she said .
she ate the fish and more that turson offered her .
then they drank deeply from the clear , cold waters of the rocky stream , and they did live .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents escape days passed and the numbers of the captives dwindled .
turson watched and waited .
the best pieces of fish and other food scraps he gave to sali and her strength returned .
he watched as the color returned to her face and her eyes shone once more .
the creature began taking longer absences from the bay .
he was sure his guard , the man veral , would keep the captives here where he could get at them .
six more days passed .
turson was growing desperate .
as day fell , turson counted only six people left .
the others were weak and sickly , having given up all hope .
turson had browbeaten his wife to continue to eat and drink , and above all , not give up hope .
the sun lay low on the western horizon .
gwaum walked through his feedlot .
he chose another victim , ate her , and then strode off into the gathering darkness .
he has gone , said turson .
now is our chance .
he will not come back until morning .
there is still veral , said sali .
he keeps a constant vigil , and he has a dagger .
i will deal with veral .
when the darkness was complete , turson approached veral .
he has gone , veral .
we can escape .
veral stood up .
there will be no escape for you , turson .
i have seen you watching .
the creature will return .
he will eat you next .
turson gauged the distance between the two men .
his eye fell on the dagger .
the starlight provided soft illumination , reflected by the waters of the bay .
he edged closer .
we can escape , veral .
the creature will not return until dawn .
we have hours to run .
we can get to safety .
there is no safety for us , turson .
so the creature has promised your safety if you betray your friends and neighbors ?
here there are not friends or neighbors , veral said .
there are only survivors .
i intend to survive .
the creature will eat you as well , said turson .
he is saving you for last .
you will watch us all die , then he will kill you as well .
he watched as doubt entered verals eyes .
he sprang at veral , grabbing at the dagger with his hand .
the two men fell to the rocky earth and struggled .
the dagger fell .
turson , thinking of sali , fought hard .
he struck veral across the face and felt the crunch as he broke the mans nose .
blood streamed from verals nostrils .
he screamed in pain , and then groped for the dagger .
turson beat him to it , but veral tried to take turson down .
then he cried out , and fell to the earth , the dagger protruding from his abdomen .
he reached for it , but turson grabbed it first .
he withdrew it from him .
dark blood flowed .
veral watched in wide eyed horror as his life streamed from him .
you could have gone with us , said turson .
we could have escaped together .
but you chose this instead .
turson watched as veral died on the stony ground .
he stood up and returned to sali .
come , we must hurry .
what about the rest ?
turson looked at the others , lying on the ground nearby .
none had even stirred during the struggle .
they are too weak to travel .
they will only slow us down .
we must escape alone , sali .
sali looked at the other captives .
turson was right .
they had to go .
together they stole off into the night .
none of the remaining captives even watched them as they disappeared into the darkness .
the night was almost half gone .
they stopped to take a break , and turson studied the ground behind them .
this will not do , he said .
we are leaving tracks in the dust .
i am sure the creature will be able to follow our scent .
we have to try another path .
what shall we do , sali asked .
turson looked at the river that was a quagmire of red , stinking muck .
they could not travel that way .
we can not cover our tracks , nor hide our scent .
we can not make the white rock for many days , and even if we could , the creature would overtake us before we could get across .
he glanced at his wife .
she was already tired .
turson also felt the fingers of fatigue groping at him , trying to convince him to stop .
he would not stop .
turson decided that it was time to do the unexpected .
the creature would think that they would try to escape by the same route they came in .
indeed , that is what they were doing .
we must double back .
sali looked at him .
go back ?
for days we sought to escape , and now you want to go back ?
our trail will lead him here , to this point .
if we return , the creature will waste time following our scent to a dead end .
but we will still be in that ruined city .
there are still buildings there .
we can hide there .
what about food ?
we must have food and water .
the creature will run out of captives to eat .
if we can last a few days , then maybe we can escape when he leaves for another hunting expedition .
sali stood .
then i guess we return .
we have few other choices .
turson strode off , retracing their steps back to the ruined city .
he hoped he had made the right choice .
the eastern sky was brightening when they approached the ruined city .
the creature had not returned .
turson could see veral , still sprawled on the ground where he died .
he turned to look back along their trail .
his heart fell .
he neglected to think about their footprints in the dust .
he could see a double set of prints , one leading away , and one returning .
the ploy failed .
he looked at sali .
he could see her fright .
he decided not to tell her of his concern .
they were back now .
there was no time to retrace their route .
gwaum would soon return .
he would find them .
he turned again .
where would they go ?
he scanned the area .
the gurgling stream caught his eye .
he led sali to the stream .
they stepped into the water and followed the course of the water up into the city .
it led them to its source , a rocky outcropping in the center of a plaza surrounded by many ruined buildings .
he studied the dilemma .
in front of them , an open door beckoned .
it was too far to jump .
if they left the water , they would leave tracks in the dust and scatter their scent behind them .
the creature , after he had followed their false trail , would return here and search .
he would find them .
a light wind began to blow .
turson wet his finger and held it aloft .
it was coming from the southwest .
hope rose within him .
if the wind picked up , maybe the dust would drift .
maybe it would cover their tracks .
turson did not intend to allow the creature to find them now .
a rock wall surrounded the spring .
this was apparently a gathering place when this city was a happier place .
two flagpoles stood , one at each end of the oval enclosure .
using the dagger , turson hacked at the base of one of the poles .
after much cutting , he was able to push the pole down .
it crashed onto the top step in front of the door .
we have a road , he said .
i cant walk along that without falling , said sali .
yes you can .
come , i will lead .
he jumped up on the pole .
it swayed under his weight .
memories returned to turson .
as children , he and the other boys competed , crossing a mountain stream on logs that had fallen across the stream .
turson lifted his arms and walked , placing one foot in front of the other .
using his arms to steady his body , turson crept across the pole .
it began to creak under his weight .
when he was close enough to leap , he jumped , and landed on the stone step .
he turned .
his eyes met salis eyes .
you can do it , he said , his eyes conveying encouragement .
sali followed his lead .
as she reached the halfway point , a great roar blasted out .
gwaum had returned .
she hesitated .
she started to lose her balance .
she took two more unsteady steps and started to fall .
turson leaned forward .
she was just close enough .
he grabbed her outstretched hands and pulled her across .
together they entered the building .
turson pulled the pole into the building and closed the door .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents discovered the night was lifting .
gwaum was getting hungry .
it was time to return and feed .
he turned his feet back towards the bay .
the wind started to pick up .
gwaum could smell rain in the air .
as he walked , the wind increased .
the dust blew in red clouds .
as he entered his prison , he saw his guard , lying dead , his body already covered by red dust .
he scanned the captives .
two were gone .
he straightened up .
where could they have gone ?
he turned .
he could see slight depressions in the dust .
footprints .
the drifting dust was already covering them .
he bent and lowered his nose to the ground and sniffed .
the scent was still fresh .
he stood .
tracking them was not necessary .
their path lay along the road .
he returned to the captives , chose one , and fed .
he looked at the remaining humans .
they were weakening fast .
no longer did they even react to his feeding .
four more remained .
in a week he would have to go back to hunt .
he had enough to last him six days , after he recaptured the two who escaped .
anger brewed within him .
these two would not get far .
he would find them .
with purposeful steps , he started down the road .
the wind blew the red dust , and the tracks were now covered .
on occasion , gwaum bent down and sniffed .
the scent was still fresh .
he continued .
the rains began .
gwaum stopped .
the rain would wash the scent away .
he bent to sniff again .
it was still there , but faint .
he continued .
he did not need the scent .
he knew their path .
after a couple of more hours , the scent ran out .
gwaum stopped .
the rain had finally ended , but it had done its work .
gwaum peered ahead .
he saw nothing .
if these humans continued on the road , he would soon be able to see them .
they were slower than he was and weakened by their captivity .
they could not be far .
the road began to climb as it ascended a bluff that overlooked the ruined river .
from this point , gwaum could see several miles ahead .
with his keen eye , he scanned to country ahead .
there was no one there .
the captives could not be that far ahead of him .
perhaps they had left the road and were traveling overland .
there were the remains of several lanes that had intersected this main road that he had passed .
they could have taken any of these .
he stopped .
why should he worry about two captives ?
even if they escaped , what harm could they do to him ?
his pride arose .
they had escaped him , the mighty , powerful gwaum .
he remembered their scent .
they would return to their homes .
he thought of the other captives .
he would return .
he would feed again .
these starving humans had little flesh left on their bones , and did not satisfy like fresh caught prey .
he knew he needed a better plan .
captives reduced his need to go to that other place to hunt .
he needed captives .
as he turned to return to the ruined city , another plan formulated in his mind .
there would be no escape for the next lot .
turson surveyed their new home .
it was a large building , evidently a public building of some type in former days .
now that we are away from gwaum , what do we do about food and water ?
salis question brought the next concern to surface .
he looked at the hallway that they had come in .
their footprints were visible .
gwaum , if he passed , would see them .
the pole turson had pulled into the hall .
this was a building with people living in it .
there was food stored here .
but it has been many years .
any food still here would be spoiled .
turson shrugged .
it has only been five years .
some of it may have survived .
he wasnt too concerned .
they had eaten well yesterday .
the other captives had given up hope , and turson and sareh ate most of the fish gwaum provided .
they had drunk well from the stream before crossing the pole .
we are not in need of either yet .
we must explore this building .
maybe we will find something .
they walked to the end of the hall .
a stairway led up .
together they ascended the stair .
at each landing , a door led out to another hall .
there were four levels .
as they reached the upper level , turson peered out the broken door .
gwaum had caved in the roof .
wooden roof beams lay scattered about .
the thick red dust lay thick over all .
it began to rain .
if we had something to catch the water in , we would have some water , turson said .
i saw some urns standing in the hall we entered in , said sali .
they returned to the hall to find several urns stacked upside down .
turson picked one up and studied the inside .
it looks pretty clean , he said .
sareh picked up another .
this one does too .
they returned to the stair and climbed back to the top .
they sat the urns in a clear spot in the rubble .
the rain dribbled in .
it wont be much , said turson , but it may last us until we can figure a way to get some from the stream outside .
there was nothing to discover in this ruined upper chamber , so they descended .
after more exploration , they discovered a stair that led down .
the interior was dark .
they descended into the darkness .
at the bottom , a wooden door led to an interior chamber .
a small street level window lit the room .
as their eyes adjusted , they could see that the room was full of sealed urns .
turson bent down and broke the wax seal of one of the urns .
he pulled the wooden lid off and peered inside .
i think we have found the food larder , he said .
he reached inside and pulled out a handful of roasted nuts .
he put one in his mouth and chewed it .
they are still good , he said .
he handed sali a fistful .
she held her hands out and turson dumped the nuts into her hands .
she tasted one .
delicious , she said .
this is a wonderful change from that smelly , raw fish .
they broke open a couple of more urns , finding dried fruits as well .
one of the urns the fruit was moldy and full of worms .
other yielded dried fruits that were still edible .
we have food , said turson .
we can hide down here , said sareh .
gwaum will not find us .
that caused turson to remember their tracks .
i need to cover the tracks we made when we came in .
there were piles of dust upstairs , where we put the urns to catch water .
it will be wet by now , said turson .
maybe some isnt .
so they returned to the upper chamber .
it had stopped raining .
turson bent to look into the urn .
only a couple of inches of water , he said .
then he looked at the dust .
this is queer stuff , he said as he scooped it up .
it seems to have not gotten wet .
it is still dry .
they got another urn and filled it with dust .
they returned to the passage .
together they picked up the pole and carried it out of sight of the door , placing it in a dark passage off to the side of the main one .
turson returned to the door and sprinkled the dust , covering their footprints .
he stepped into the back hall and studied his handiwork .
it looks good , said sali .
he will not guess that we passed through .
lets hope not , said turson .
we will have left our scent .
if he sniffs too close , he may catch it .
then we have to hope that he doesnt .
the two ate their fill of the nuts and dried fruits .
then they found a spot that was dry and quiet .
they lay down and slept a sleep that was dreamless and pleasant their first good sleep in many weeks .
gwaum watched the last of the captives .
they were dying , not even interested in the dead fish which lay on the rivers bank just a short distance away .
he turned and studied the ruined buildings of the nearby city .
all the resources he needed were there , in that city .
he walked to the citys center .
a fountain , which still burbled with fresh water , lay in the plaza .
he glanced at the fountain .
there was something different there .
he strode to the fountain .
there had been a flagpole here , in the center of the fountain .
a pole that had flown the standard of the kingdom he destroyed .
the pole was gone .
he peered at the base of the pole .
someone had hacked it down , the fresh shavings still floating on a quiet recess in the pool .
he bent and sniffed .
he stood up .
it was that man and woman that escaped .
he detected their scent .
his eyes scanned the nearby buildings .
he strode to the closest one .
he pushed on the door and peered inside .
the passage inside was empty , the floor covered with a thick layer of dust .
he closed the door and went to the next building .
the door had fallen away .
again , gwaum peered inside .
it was another empty passage .
he turned to look at the fountain .
there was a puzzle here .
he returned to the first building and peered in the door .
he was too big to get in there .
he searched through the souls of the wizards imprisoned within him .
he found a spell .
he closed his eye and focused upon the spell .
his body shrank until it was small enough to enter the door .
he went inside and strode through the passage .
in the interior portion of the building , his dust layer had not penetrated .
there were no prints to follow .
he sniffed the floor .
the scent was here .
the two had entered this building .
he followed the scent to a stair that led down .
as he placed his foot on a step , a loose stone broke loose and caromed down the steps , rattling as it went .
gwaum heard a gasp , and then muffled words .
he had found them and had them cornered .
he rushed down the steps .
he entered another hall .
there was a doorway just ahead .
gwaum strode to it and entered .
there , in the murky light of the room , he could see the man and woman .
they were looking at him , horror in their eyes .
they were holding hands and backing away from him .
gwaum smiled and advanced towards them .
these two would rejoin their fellows soon .
they continued retreating before him .
a low stonewall was behind them .
the mans foot struck the wall .
he fell , pulling the woman with him .
gwaum approached the circular wall and peered down .
he watched as they struck the water at the bottom .
gwaum could not enter water , so he watched .
he waited a long time .
they did not resurface .
it was a pity that they died .
they would have made a tasty meal .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents sanctuary turson awoke .
the clattering of a falling rock echoed across the room .
he looked towards the stair .
he and sali were the only two humans in the building .
the falling stone could only mean one thing .
gwaum was here .
he reached over to sali and shook her .
her eyes opened .
she saw tursons face and smiled .
then she saw the worry in his face .
she sat up .
she followed his eyes with her own , to the doorway to the outside hall .
gwaum appeared in the door .
the two jumped up and began backing away from the monster .
backwards and backwards they retreated .
his heel caught on something .
turson looked back to see a large , gaping hole .
he fell , pulling sali with him .
down and down they fell .
they struck the cold water at the bottom .
there was a current in the water which swept them along .
tursons lungs were ready to burst .
he did not let go of sali .
a shaft of light appeared in front of him .
he swam to it , dragging sali with him .
he swam up into the light .
his face broke the water .
he found himself in a courtyard , surrounded on all sides by walls .
verandas in the walls overlooked the courtyard on all sides .
a skylight high above let in the noonday sun .
he pulled sali from the water and laid her on the stone pavers .
she was silent .
he placed his hands on her chest and pushed .
water gushed from her mouth .
again and again he pushed .
he started to give up .
his sali was dead .
at that moment , she gasped and coughed .
her eyes opened .
sali , youre alive .
he held her hands and kissed her forehead .
sali coughed again and sat up .
her eyes widened with horror .
gwaum , she said , where is he ?
we have escaped him .
we fell into an open well .
we surfaced here , wherever this it .
he looked around .
this must be the palace , or a part of it that gwaum did not destroy .
sali started to stand .
turson pushed her back down .
you must stay here and rest .
you almost died .
i will explore and see what is here .
turson entered a doorway which bordered the courtyard .
fallen stones blocked the hall here .
he explored several other doorways , and found the same thing .
the last door he entered was into a hall which was not blocked .
stones were lying all around , but the passage was open .
he soon found an interior room .
a divan stood against one wall , and a wooden table stood at the center .
other furniture was in the room which included some chairs , three oil lamps and a flint lighter .
he returned to sali and helped her to her feet .
i have found a place for us to stay and rest .
he led her into the room .
a window above the divan opened to another courtyard beyond .
stones and piles of rubble littered its floor .
he could see the hills that towered above the ruined city in the distance .
you can rest here , he said .
i will search for food .
the fountain will provide us with water .
i want to go with you , she said .
i am strong enough .
do not leave me alone .
together they left the room and continued down the hall .
a door stood at the end .
turson opened it .
a stair led down into blackness .
turson went back to their room , got a lamp and lit it with the flint .
he returned to sareh and they descended the stair .
it led to a large room , which was full of sealed urns .
turson opened one of the urns .
dried meat made up its contents .
turson picked out a piece , smelled it , and then bit into it .
it was savory and good .
we are in luck , again sali .
this is the food larder for the palace .
she looked around .
there must be hundreds of urns .
there is enough food here to feed dozens of people for a long time .
it is if it is still good .
this was the larder for the king , turson said .
this would have been the best food .
in another urn they found more nuts and in another dried fruits .
they filled their stomachs and returned to the chamber .
sareh lay down on the divan , her eyes found turson .
do you think we are safe here ?
turson shrugged .
gwaum saw us fall into the well .
he will think we are dead so he will stop looking for us .
in a few days , he will leave to go hunting again .
if we can keep hidden until then , we should be safe .
but how do we get away that is a question i can not answer yet , sali .
fortune may yet give us the means of escape .
their ordeal left them exhausted and drained .
their bellies were full .
they lay back on the divan and turson held sareh close .
again they slept .
the courtyard outside grew dimmer as the sun sank in the west .
the sun rose , splaying intense colors of gold and red across the sky .
gwaum returned to the river .
two of the captives had died in the night .
he fed on one .
it was no use getting the remaining one food .
he would soon be dead .
gwaum fed on this one too .
now he was out of food .
he would have to return to that other part of island world .
before he left he had preparations for the next batch of prey .
he looked at the buildings near the water .
he would have plenty of materials for his task .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents a plan emerges the sound began as a low rumble .
turson opened his eyes .
the sound stopped .
he looked at sali , still asleep beside him .
after a pause of several minutes , the sound began again .
salis eyes opened .
what is that ?
turson shook his head .
i dont know , but it sounds close .
all day the sound continued at intervals .
sometimes it was close , others it was further away .
it was a day of fear for turson and sali .
they did not move from their hiding place , not even to search out the larder to eat .
at dusk , the sounds stopped .
hunger finally drove them from hiding .
they crept to the larder and ate .
then they ventured into the courtyard .
the rising moons light crept in through the skylight , lending a silver glow to the glittering water of the pool .
they drank their fill of the sweet , cool water .
they went back into their room .
turson lit one of the lamps and damped the wick back so it emitted a faint glow .
as he did , the room filled with the aroma of the scented oil .
it had a soothing effect after their tedious day .
salis eyes sought tursons eyes .
what do you think gwaum was doing ?
turson shrugged .
he will have to leave soon to go hunting .
we can explore after he leaves .
when will we know he has gone ?
there were only four people left when we escaped .
two were close to dying .
gwaum does not like to eat them after they are dead .
it is certain that he has eaten the last of the people by now .
in a day or two hunger would force him to leave .
turson , we must leave this evil place .
tursons face was deep in thought .
we can not go back by the road .
it will take many days and we might meet gwaum , something we can not chance .
then how will we go ?
turson shrugged .
we will think of something .
we must explore this city after gwaum leaves .
he will hunt for several weeks , giving us time to find another way .
the night advanced and again turson and sali slept .
two days of silence ensued .
at the beginning of the third day , turson said , i think gwaum is gone .
i am going to investigate .
i will go with you , said sali .
no , you must stay here where it is safe .
turson , if the monster is gone , it is safe out there .
if he is still there , and he captures you , then i want to be with you .
if you die , then i must also .
i will not stay here alone .
turson nodded assent , and the two explored the passageway outside their room .
it did not take long to find a door that led outside .
they turned their footsteps to the river , the scene of their captivity .
turson stopped and gazed at the sight that met their eyes .
a circular stone wall stood by the riverbank .
it was tall and massive , with a single gate .
turson walked to the gate .
it opened , swinging out on creaking hinges .
inside , twelve small stone shelters clustered against the wall that faced the city .
turson laid his hand on one of the massive stones .
gwaum has built a prison for his captives .
now , none can escape , said sali .
turson entered one of the huts .
the construction was such that the outside wall formed the back wall of the hut .
heavy wood beams formed the ceiling .
turson inspected the huts .
i have found something , he said .
he knelt .
one of the stones was smaller than the rest .
turson pushed against the stone .
it wiggled .
i think we can remove this stone from the outside , he said .
turson said i think we have seen enough here .
gwaum will return with more captives .
he has found the food in the first building we entered .
he will guess that there is more and will search it out .
he picked up a sharp stone and spent a few minutes carving a mark on the moving stone .
he ran his fingers across it .
now i can find it in the dark .
together they returned to the palace and continued their explorations .
at the end of the hall , they found a set of huge wooden doors .
turson loosened the latch and pulled the door open .
inside was a cavernous room .
a skylight , long broken , admitted the morning sun .
a huge boat was lying across a wooden cradle beneath it , waters sparkled in the sun .
another set of wooden doors blocked the opposite end .
the waters lay under these doors .
i think we have found the kings boat , said turson .
he walked to the doors over the water .
he pushed on one of them .
the door opened , revealing a short canal that led to the river beyond .
he could see the opening of the bay and the ocean beyond .
i think we have found our means of escape , said turson .
this is a big boat , turson .
we can not manage it ourselves .
turson walked all around the hull , inspecting it .
it has been out of the water .
it looks in good shape .
we could sail this boat .
what do you know about sailing a ship , turson ?
you have never been on one .
turson looked at her .
sali , we could free the next group of captives .
surely one of them will have experience on a ship .
that means we will have to wait for the return of the gwaum .
i dont think we should do that , turson .
we have a safe place to hide , sali .
gwaum thinks we are dead .
we can wait until he leaves on one of his journeys , free the captives and launch this boat .
we can have it provisioned and ready .
we can escape at night , while gwaum is gone .
there will be guards , turson .
gwaum will have more than one the next time .
he will have learned not to have just one .
we have time to plan , sali .
we can save over thirty people on this boat .
it will hold that many .
sali thought about what turson said .
she saw the determination in his eyes .
we can not go back by the road .
that is much too risky , she said .
we do not know this land .
if we try another path , we may get lost .
there is no food , only dust and dead forests .
whatever houses we find may have no usable food in them .
we would die of starvation , not to say of thirst .
it 's possible that all the streams consist of the same undrinkable muck we saw in the river along the way down .
sali nodded .
what you say is true .
we may only have this one chance at escape .
we must use the time we have preparing .
we can provision the boat with food from the larder and water from the pool .
we can gather weapons and other things we will need .
and lay plans on how we will deal with the guards .
sali smiled .
i think we may just pull this off , turson .
then the two went to work .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents sali captured the last of the new prisoners shuffled into the compound .
gwaum watched in satisfaction as the gates closed and his guards cut the bonds that bound them .
there were over thirty prisoners .
these would not escape .
with proper food and shelter , they would not weaken the way the last bunch did .
he had taken the time to open wells along the way , keeping the prisoners supplied with water on this trip .
he had made them scavenge for food and carry it along before entering the red lands .
these prisoners had fared better than the first group .
the extra guards and stone walls would prevent escape .
this would provide at least a months respite from hunting .
when these were gone , the guards could help him gather even more prisoners the next time .
he envisioned a large colony of prisoners , allowing him longer freedom from the hunt .
he could breed them like cattle , producing food for him and freeing him from hunting altogether .
this would give him freedom to spend more time searching for another wizard .
gwaum studied his guards .
using fear and magic , he coerced them to work for him .
their promised rewards of better food and the pick of women were sufficient .
gwaum marveled that people would betray their kind for such paltry rewards .
he looked at the captain of his guards , a man named deson krass , and motioned that he should approach .
deson stood before him , his head bowed .
there is food in that building , gwaum pointed to the building that had housed turson and sali .
pick some prisoners and go in and carry the urns here .
yes , master , said deson .
he went to his guards and relayed gwaums instructions .
they chose prisoners for the task and after an hours work the urns filled with food lined the wall near the guard towers .
deson again stood before gwaum and said , we have done as you said , master .
gwaum nodded .
now have them gather wood from the rubble of the buildings and stack it in the prison .
the prisoners again followed gwaum 's command .
gwaum faced the river and shot a fireball at the river .
dead fish floated to the surface .
gather the fish , said gwaum .
the prisoners may start a fire to cook the fish .
gwaum grunted with satisfaction .
these prisoners would eat better , preserving their body fat for him .
the last ones had never liked the raw fish he forced them to eat .
they had become thin and unwholesome .
the smell of cooking fish soon filled the air .
gwaum walked away in disgust .
gwaum turned to look at the ruined city .
there would be still more food there , preserved in the urns .
his eyes wandered to the palace , which he had never thought much about before .
there would be much food stored there .
it had served as the repository for the army and the sailors when they were in port .
tomorrow , he would have the guards search that as well .
he would gather all the food he could find and store it in the guards quarters , which would be in a building not far from the prison .
again , he addressed deson .
i will be leaving for three days .
you must establish shifts of two guards stationed on the towers .
the others may sleep or amuse yourselves as you see fit .
you may choose some female prisoners as you like for your entertainment .
tomorrow i want you to search the palace over there , here gwaum indicated the ruined palace near the river , for more food .
have the prisoners bring all that you find there .
yes , master .
good , said gwaum .
when i return , i expect to find all in order .
he walked to the compound , opened the gates and entered .
the prisoners fled from him , crawling into the stone huts by the wall .
he reached into one of the huts , found a victim and fed .
he then strode out and off into the hills .
he could now enjoy his beautiful land , and return in a day or two to feed again .
turson and sali watched from their perch high in a nearby building .
they had not been idle in the weeks of gwaums absence .
they had managed to lower the boat into the water and provision it with food from the kings larder .
there had been two minor leaks , which turson managed to fix .
the ship was seaworthy .
tonight we must contact the prisoners , said turson as he watched gwaum stalk away .
do you think he will be gone long ?
turson shrugged .
he has been away many weeks .
he has restocked his food supply and to him all seems secure .
he has fed well before he left .
my guess is he will be gone a couple of days .
in that amount of time , we will have gotten the prisoners away .
if all goes well , said sali .
the stars twinkled down from a moonless sky .
it was a perfect night for their task .
turson and sali crept to the wall , keeping to the shadows to avoid detection of the guards in the towers .
they reached the point turson had marked .
he felt along the stones until he found the one he sought .
he pushed it in .
the stone fell .
a muffled grunt came from within .
psst , is anyone there , turson whispered through the hole .
a face peered at him from the hole .
who are you ?
friends , said turson .
we come to free you .
a cheer resounded through the hole .
quiet , commanded turson .
you will alert the guard .
silence ensued .
the stone found its way back into the hole .
turson and sali exchanged glances .
they waited .
in a few moments , the stone jiggled .
turson again pushed it in .
it was the guard , the voice said .
he heard my cry and came to investigate .
what did you tell him ?
i told him i was having a dream .
he is gone ?
we watched him go back to his tower .
my cellmate is watching now .
we are safe .
good , said turson .
are there any sailors among you ?
gwaum captured us from cleery .
my cellmate was a captain in the kings fleet before the kingdom fell .
good .
we have a boat provisioned and ready to sail .
we want to leave tomorrow night .
can you have the other prisoners ready ?
we can have them ready .
that is good , said turson .
gwaum will not return for a couple of days .
we will be here tomorrow night at this same time .
what about the guards ?
turson stood , stepped back and looked at the guards , their bodies outlined against the starry sky .
we will take care of the guards .
another voice came through the hole .
i am garish dree .
i am the seaman .
i want to see the boat .
turson moved to the hole .
we can show it to you .
it is not far .
the man emerged from the hole .
he looked around .
i thought i would never live beyond those walls .
the group crept up the slope and across the courtyard .
turson and sali led garish to the palace , and then inside .
they went down the hall and through the double doors .
the room was dark .
turson lit a lamp , which illuminated the boat .
garish climbed into it and descended below the deck .
after a few moments , he emerged .
his eyes shone in the lamplight .
it is a fine boat .
he turned to look at turson .
how did you two happen to come here ?
turson said , we were in the last group of captives .
we escaped gwaum and have hidden here ever since .
we found water and food .
we mean to escape with your fellow captives .
it is good for us that you escaped .
what happened to your group ?
gwaum ate them all , as he will eat you if we do not get away .
we should return , garish said .
one of the guards inspects the huts periodically .
they can not find us missing .
they returned to the wall and garish wriggled through .
we will return tomorrow night , at this same time .
have the people ready .
when we give the signal , you will all come to this hole and escape through it .
what is the signal ?
you will know it when you see it .
sweat was dripping off tursons brow as he heaved the last urn into place .
he glanced at an equally sweating sali as she sprinkled packing sand around the urn , cushioning the urn from its fellows .
that should be enough fresh water , said turson .
they returned to deck .
there was a stack of weapons in the center of the deck .
the sails mended sails hung furled from the masts .
the boat was ready to sail .
i think we should rest until tonight , said sali .
i am tired .
turson nodded assent .
together they returned to the room near the larder that they had used to stay in .
the two slept .
turson awoke .
outside , he could see that the sun was already casting long shafts of light .
it had passed zenith and was not readying itself for its daily rest .
turson stood .
he glanced at sali .
she was sleeping her eyes closed and face peaceful in dreams .
he decided to go out for one last walk in the red desert outside .
by tomorrow , they would be safe on the sea , far from this dreadful place .
he strode from the room and went down the hall to the door that led to the outside .
red dust swirled around his feet as he walked .
he ascended the slope and stood on top of the hill , after concealing himself in a group of boulder .
he studied the ruined city .
he could see the compound in which housed the prisoners .
he watched as the guards stood watch over their charges .
the blue waters of the bay beyond glistened in the late afternoon sun .
he turned to look towards the west .
the sun was now low on the horizon , and it glinted off the red landscape .
he never got used to the stink of the dust , but he had learned to endure it .
he longed for the sweet smell of the mountains and the forest 's fragrance .
he closed his eyes .
in a few days , they would be back in their land .
he wondered where they would go .
they could not return to their home .
it was too close to the monsters road .
no one would ever be able to dwell there again .
a scream tore the pleasant thoughts from his mind .
sali .
he emerged from his hiding place to race down the hill .
he entered the palace and stopped short .
two of the guards were standing , backs to him , outside their quarters .
a moment later , the other two emerged , pulling sali with them .
turson hid behind a pile of rubble .
he watched , helpless , as the guards surrounded his wife .
look what we found , one chortled as he grasped salis chin with his hand .
fresh meat for gwaum , said another .
for us first , said another as his eyes swept her body .
this is a sweet one .
i wonder what she is doing here .
hiding , that is plain to see .
the man released her chin , and ran his finger along her cheek , working it down her neck as he asked , what is she hiding , i wonder .
another man slapped his hand away .
save that for later .
we will decide who gets her first after we get her back .
tie her up and search for food .
there has to be some here , or this piece wouldnt be hiding here .
the guards soon found the larder .
this is what gwaum sent us for .
this whole room contains food urns .
the others gathered around and went in .
turson judged the distance between him and sali .
if they stayed in the room just a few minutes , he could free her .
he crept from his hiding place .
sali saw him .
fear tinged her eyes .
her eye averted to the open door .
she glanced at turson , who was creeping closer .
she shook her head .
turson recoiled back to his hiding place .
the guards emerged .
tomorrow morning , after the feeding of the captives , we will bring some here to get this .
it will take all day to move all that .
one of them approached sali .
then we take this wench back .
we can get a couple more from the prison after the evening feeding .
we will have a fun time tonight .
turson watched , as sali was drug down the hall and into the plaza outside .
back to rise of gwaum table of content table of contents escape turson fought against his impulse to rescue sali .
a rash act like that would only result in his capture or death .
then sali and the other prisoners would be without hope .
he waited until dark and gathered his weapons .
he slung salis crossbow across his shoulder .
he belted two swords on his midriff , one on each side of his waist and picked up his own crossbow .
sali and he had spent many hours practicing with the crossbows .
both became proficient in their use .
now was the time to test that skill .
gripping his crossbow , he went out into the night .
he crept across the plaza , down the slope , crawled to the wall and felt for the stone .
he pushed the stone in .
a moment later garishs head emerged .
they have your woman , he said .
turson nodded .
can you handle a crossbow ?
i was a sharpshooter when i first served the king .
tell the others to keep in their places .
we need to take care of the guards .
garish disappeared , then a moment later , his legs emerged and he dropped to the ground .
turson handed garish the crossbow .
they turned to the guard tower .
he could see the guards bodies outlined against the starlit sky .
it will be a difficult shot , said garish .
can you make it ?
turson nodded .
i did a lot of hunting when younger sali and i spent many hours practicing while we waited .
the men sighted their weapons .
garish gave a slight nod .
the two arrows flew as one .
the targets on the towers fell noiselessly to the dust covered ground .
garish stuck his head in and called , come now .
turson watched the prisoners emerge .
where is sali ?
garish pointed to the building that housed the guards .
they took her and three others to that place .
we must rescue our women .
turson glanced at garish .
get the rest of the people to the boat .
he looked at the others , who stood watching him .
are there any here good with the crossbow ?
two men raised their hands .
turson indicated one .
what is your name ?
nuxton paarth .
i was in the kings army before the kingdom fell .
turson handed nuxton one of the crossbows and waited as the man secured the sword .
all right , nuxton let 's go .
as garish led the other captives to freedom , turson and nuxton crept to the guards building .
they looked inside .
the four women lay bound on the stone floor .
the men were eating and drinking wine from crystal glasses , casting occasional lusty glances at them .
they dropped down on their haunches .
there are four , said turson .
we must take them by surprise .
nuxton nodded .
the door behind them is wide enough for our purposes .
turson agreed .
they entered the building and crept down the hall .
they turned a corner .
turson ran to the other side of the door .
at his signal , the two men stepped into the door .
the men facing them glanced at them , surprise in their eyes .
before they could cry in alarm , arrows protruding from their chest cut them down .
the other two jumped to their feet .
dismay clouded their faces .
their swords leaned against the wall , too far for them to get .
quick as cats , turson and nuxton reloaded the bows and shot .
one of the guards fell , an arrow protruding from his neck .
the other had turned and the arrow glanced off his back .
blood streamed from the cut .
he hustled for his sword , but before he could reach it , another arrow found him .
he turned , the arrow sticking from his arm .
turson fired , and the man fell , blood spurting from the hole in his chest made by the arrow .
turson drew his dagger and ran to sali .
he cut her bonds , and then joined nuxton as he freed the other three .
oh , turson , i was afraid i would never see you again .
i thought maybe they had captured you , too .
the two joined in an embrace that threatened to break both their ribs .
they broke the embrace and sali asked , where were you ?
when i awoke , you were not there .
then those men came , and , oh i thought you were dead .
i awoke .
you were still asleep , so i took a walk .
sali smiled .
it is good that you did .
if you had stayed with me , they would have gotten both of us and all would have been lost .
we should get to the ship , said nuxton .
the others are already there and waiting .
we do not want to stay in this evil place any longer .
six figures scurried through the darkness .
they made their way into the palace and then to the boat room .
the lit oil lamp filled the rooms with both light and fragrance .
garish turned as turson led the group into the room .
it looks like you have succeeded , he said , a smile flitting across his face .
turson smiled back .
yes , we have gotten our own back , unharmed .
the oarsmen are in place and all the people are on board , garish said .
then we are ready to go , said turson .
not quite .
these men know nothing of the oar .
we will have to spend some time turning them into a team before we strike the open ocean .
turson stepped on board of the boat .
he turned to take salis hand as she boarded .
he glanced back at garish .
we do not have much time .
how long will it take ?
it will not take long , a couple of hours at most .
daylight must find us on our way .
i am sure that gwaum will return and he will be angry .
turson opened the sea doors , and at a command from garish , the oarsmen dipped their oars .
the boat moved .
it promptly crashed into the stone wall opposite the dock .
garish smiled .
see what i mean ?
after a few tries , the boat finally moved into the open water of the river .
the eastern horizon was beginning to glow with the awakening of the sun .
sweat gleamed on the oarsmens brows , and garish was beginning to show his impatience .
we are running out of time .
this time , follow my count .
row , rest , row , rest , his instructions , bleated out for the hundredth time , finally began to show progress .
the boat began to near the harbors mouth .
it was finally proceeding straight and true .
the suns orange tongue began to peek above the horizon .
the water sparkled with its radiance .
turson cast a worried glance back at the city .
his eyes widened in horror .
he is back , he said .
gwaum stood once again at the white rock .
it continued to defy his power .
he turned to look at the eastern sky .
hunger was beginning to beckon him .
he would have to return to feed .
he strode down the mountain and back towards the ruined city , covering ground more quickly than any horse could .
by the time the sun started licking at the sky , gwaum was back .
he looked at his stone prison , and his stomach growled .
the morning would begin , and end , badly for one of the prisoners .
as he neared the prison , his eye caught a dark figure lying in the red dust .
what was this ?
he saw another , close by , lying still , an arrow protruding from his back .
he pushed the door to the prison open and strode inside .
he looked in one of the stone huts .
empty .
he moved to the next .
it was empty .
he turned to look at the bay .
a boat was plying its waters , moving steadily towards the exit to the sea .
he remembered another boat that dared invade his domain not too many months ago .
he remembered what he did .
his single red eye blazed .
he opened his mouth and roared .
dust and wind swirled from his mouth .
the crescendo of sound and dust blew outwards , to the boat as it exited the harbor .
gwaum watched as the boat foundered in the storm .
then it disappeared from sight as it rounded the south promontory .
again and again , gwaum trumpeted his anger .
red dust swirled in vast clouds and fell on the now lifeless land .
his eye turned to the city .
those who escaped must somehow have survived in that place .
they ad hidden from him there and had plotted to free the captives .
his captives .
his food .
now that would end .
he strode to the plaza and bellowed .
one building fell , submitting to the creatures wrath .
another fell .
then another .
by the time the sun reached its zenith , the remnants of the city had succumbed to his wrath .
it was all a dusty pile of rubble .
not a building remained .
all of this effort only increased his hunger .
he had not fed in two days .
he had to have food .
he strode to one of the dead guards .
he detested food that was already dead .
this one had lain in the sun for hours .
he picked up the body and plucked out the arrow .
he leaned his head back , held the body over his maw .
he dropped the body in .
then his eye went back to the road .
he would soon again feed on living flesh .
fresh , human flesh .
he looked again at his prison .
he would gather more guards .
he would herd more prisoners .
this time , there would be no escapes .
turson watched , his horrified eyes drinking in the scene .
he watched as gwaum approached the prison .
he turned to see the twin promontories growing larger the gap between them was looming closer .
again , he turned his face to gwaum , who was peering in one of the stone cottages .
he moved to another .
then the creature looked in their direction .
even at the vast distance that separated them , turson could see the anger .
it was then that he felt it .
the creature opened its mouth and bellowed .
the sound hit them first .
he held his hands over his ears .
he saw salis eyes close , her hands went to her ears and she fell to the deck .
the oarsmen dropped their oars to protect their ears .
several of the oars slipped their locks and fell into the sea .
the boat turned towards the rocks .
the shock wave of the red storm struck them , driving them from the harbor .
all became a confusing blur of red dust and debris .
he could hear the desperate command of captain garish pick up your oars , continue rowing .
several of the oarsmen did as commanded .
the ship began to veer from the rocks .
it left the harbor and entered the sea .
turson turned to sali and helped her to her feet .
the disgusting red dust coated her skin .
turson , using his fingers , brushed it from her lips .
he pulled her towards him , and their kiss was long in the morning sun .
after what seemed long , blissful hours , they parted .
she pulled him closer .
he felt her whisper in his ears .
we made it , turson .
we are free .
he responded by pulling her closer .
her body felt good after the long weeks of keeping their passions at bay .
turson glanced around at the crowded deck .
they would have to keep them bottled a bit longer .
his eye sought out garish .
we did it , he said .
we got away .
garish smiled .
now we just have to get this boat to cleery .
none of these men are sailors and .
turson slapped the man on the back .
you will have made them into sailors in a short time , i am sure .
perhaps it was in recompense for their horrible experiences , or just chance .
the weather remained clear for their voyage to cleery .
with a crew of experienced sailors , the distance would not have been far .
garish did not have experienced sailors .
he had saddle makers , farmers and hunters .
he was the only man with experience with a ship .
their voyage , instead of across open water straight for the harbor of cleery , hugged the coast .
a two day voyage was instead a five day one , instead .
this did not bother turson or sali .
they felt the wind in their face and smelt the sea 's fragrance .
the gulls cried as they hung from the skies on their white wings .
they watched a lonely island appear .
turson thought he detected a thin wisp of smoke coming from the center of the island .
through an opening that probably masked a small harbor , he thought he saw the masts of a ship .
it was an unpopulated island , as far as he knew .
the smoke was probably a mirage .
the ship continued and the island disappeared from their sight .
soon after they entered , the port of cleery and another ruined city met their eyes .
here , in this land , there was life .
there were trees , grass and flowers .
it was not like that other land , the land of dust , desolation and death .
as they docked the ship , turson held salis hand as they disembarked .
there were no people lining this dock , like in days past .
here the people still hid in fear from the creature gwaum .
they were free .
they had gotten away .
as tursons eyes drank in the green , wonderful world , his mind returned to gwaum .
they had escaped death .
he had seen it staring him in the eyes many times .
the creature still remained .
he was angry .
he would be back .
who , turson wondered , would save island world from his wrath .
back to rise of gwaum table of content back to table of contents a. e. mableson tale of the white rock book 3 promise of the white rock mountain of the white rock darkness falls a temporary victory a plan emerges from disaster disaster on the wings of a storm the white rock safe sanctuary a narrow escape a journey proposed an inhospitable land kidnapped by raider stormy end discovered mountain of the white rock it was the last happy time that prince bearl would know for many years .
but of course the boy did not know that .
neither did his companions , his sister marial and brother geron , as they huddled in the quiet darkness .
a campfire blazed , serving as the axis of an unfolding story , told by the fourth occupant , the old mariner , sarn dorsh.. sparks crackled and darted upward from the fire .
bearl drew back , feeling the sharp sting of the tiny embers as they burned into his arms .
he watched as the new faggots he added caught the fire from the coals .
in a few moments , they added their energy to what had been a dying fire .
he drew back as the smoke burned his eyes and nostrils .
he glanced across the fire , which now illuminated the faces of his younger brother geron and sister marial .
the other occupant of the fireside , the old mariner sarn dorsh , put his feet closer to the fire .
it was a cool evening in the early spring and bearl knew that the old man appreciated the warmth the fire radiated .
bearl smiled a contented smile .
all the ingredients were here .
he looked at sarn in anticipation .
will you tell us a story ?
the old man looked at the boy and smiled .
he withdrew his old clay pipe from his pocket .
from another pocket , he took a worn leather pouch .
he untied the drawstring and drew a generous pinch of the fragrant weed from the pouch .
he stuffed it into the pipe .
from the ground , he picked up a stick , and held it in the fire .
the tip of the branch lit and sarn used the glowing flame to light his pipe .
he took a couple of puffs , blowing the pungent smoke into the night .
his eyes blazed in the fire as he retrieved a memory .
he glanced at bearl .
have i ever told you of our last voyage ?
bearl shook his head .
no , sarn , you have never told us of that one .
sarn looked thoughtful .
his stomach pains worsened with time .
he knew that his time in this place was drawing to a close .
it was time to tell that story .
perhaps the boy would be able to do what he had never been able to do , to go back to that place .
he drew the blanket closer about his neck .
the cool air seemed always to find a way to penetrate his skin .
his eyes focused in space as he drew the memory from its recesses in his mind .
sarn settled back in his chair and began , the lion kingdom was still at its height .
your grandfather , king naros , was still king .
two of the three discovery voyages previous bore much good fruit .
because of the eastern discovery voyage , the lion kingdom encountered the persican empire .
this great kingdom lay far to the east .
they established trade colonies there which brought great profit to both kingdoms . ''
we have not had contact with the persicans for many years , '' said bearl .
sarn nodded as he reloaded his pipe .
the barbarian wars have wrought many changes , none of them good . ''
after drawing on his pipe , sarn continued his tale .
the southern discovery voyage , revealed the exotic koaic kingdoms of the hot lands .
these kingdoms yielded rich spices and herbs and the valued silk so revered by the women of the lion kingdom . ''
at this , marial sighed .
i remember my mother 's silk dresses .
she still has them , but they are getting old and worn . ''
i miss the hot peppercorns which we added to our soup , '' said sarn .
but , alas , those luxuries are gone . ''
geron laid another faggot on the fire , watched the sparks shoot up into the darkness .
he looked at sarn and asked , the third voyage was a failure , was n't it ? ''
sarn nodded .
yes , the northern voyage yielded little in the way of trade .
we visited the land where the sun never sets and found little there .
men live there , but there are no riches to be had but for the ivory tusks of some of the animals which live there .
we found little else , save ice and snow .
we did establish a small colony on the mainland to trade for furs with the natives that live there .
this was the first trading post we abandoned after the first barbarian war . ''
what of the fourth voyage ?
we have heard almost nothing about it , '' said bearl , impatience tingeing his voice .
ah , yes .
that is where i started , was n't it ? ''
sarn smiled and blew a smoke ring that rose , drifted away from the fire and disappeared into the night .
sorry , lad .
forgive an old man for wandering through his life as he talks . ''
he sipped at the glass of wine at his side and continued , the fourth voyage was to follow the path of the legendary wizard voyage . ''
we have not heard of the wizard voyage , '' said marial .
what was that ? ''
i have heard of it , '' said bearl .
father told me it happened a long time ago .
mobs drove the wizards from the lion kingdom . ''
sarn shook his head .
they were not exactly driven , prince .
the wizards of the lion kingdom grew quite strong and their power made the people afraid .
the people captured many of the lesser wizards and burned them at the stake .
they tortured others in hideous way . ''
geron cast quizzical eyes at sarn .
if these wizards had magical powers , why did they allow that to happen ?
the lesser wizards had powers , but they were not invulnerable .
it was the greater wizards the people feared the most .
they killed many of them . ''
marial asked , how could they kill them ? ''
no one could capture one of these wizards .
their powers were too great .
however , men could shoot them with arrows from far distances .
many of them died this way . ''
geron stirred the fire and added another piece of wood , glanced at sarn and asked , what happened to them ? ''
the wizards grew afraid of the gathering anger and fear of the people .
they gathered , built a ship and sailed away .
the legend says that they sailed to a land far to the northwest .
at any rate , there has been no word of any of the wizards since that time . ''
marial smoothed her dress , crossed her ankles , leaned closer to the fire , and asked , what do you think happened to them ? ''
sarn smiled and said , i do not know .
i am not even sure that such folk ever existed .
there are many old tales and legends from those earlier times .
though i guess there is some truth to some of them . ''
again bearl spoke , what of this fourth voyage .
father has never spoken of it . ''
sorry , young prince .
again , i have drifted from my tale .
your father does not speak of this voyage or any of the voyages because the memory of what the kingdom once was is too painful for him .
when your grandfather was king , the lion kingdom was dominant here in this part of the world .
it was before the treachery of damon that led to our losses of the northern provinces .
sarn glanced at the impatient prince .
but that is part of another story . ''
again , sarn paused to knock out his pipe .
he put it in his pocket and sipped at his wine .
his eyes focused on the fire as he again began his tale .
part of the purpose of the fourth voyage was to find if there was any truth to the legend .
we were to see if we could find the wizards . ''
did you find them ? ''
bearl 's eyes glinted in the firelight .
no , we did not .
we sailed on spring 's eve , the traditional date for the beginning of a voyage .
we were to sail northwest for five months , into the setting sun .
the ship had provisions for a year , but we hoped that we would find this land that the wizards sailed to and take on fresh food and water there .
the weather and winds were with us and we sped along over the western sea almost as though pulled along by the whales . ''
he paused a moment to pull his blanket closer .
the wine dulled the pain in his midsection and warmed him , driving off the evening 's chill .
it was the fourth month of the voyage .
we were far from our homes and were getting a bit homesick .
the captain pressed on .
late one day as the sun was setting in the west a wondrous sight appeared .
the lookout was the first to see it . ''
what did he see , '' marial eyes were glistening with anticipation .
at first all we could see was something bright , almost like a star , reflecting the rays of the setting sun .
the captain set a course for that glittering point of light , but the sun set and darkness fell before we got close enough to see what it was . ''
geron asked , did you ever find out what you saw ? ''
sarn 's eyes glittered in the fire light .
yes we did .
the winds abated a bit and our progress slowed during the night .
but when dawn came we could see it for what it was . ''
what was it , sarn ? ''
sarn glanced at bearl , who was sitting , hands on his hips and leaning forward .
the morning sun was just peeking over the eastern horizon .
the land before us was still in darkness .
a mountain range was visible , its dark outline massed over us .
the rising sun touched the tallest mountaintop .
at the crest of this mountain was a snow white rock .
that was the beacon which drew us in . ''
the mountain of the white rock , '' said bearl .
the captain called it mount qui , in honor of his wife . ''
that is a pretty name , '' said marial .
if i should ever see that mountain i would be happy . ''
perhaps you will , one day , '' said sarn .
not as long as we have to fight the barbarians , '' said bearl .
these wars are draining our resources .
we have little treasure or men to spare for more discovery voyages . ''
you are right , prince bearl .
the wars have drained us .
the barbarians press us harder every year . ''
bearl glanced again at sarn .
what did you do next ? ''
sarn again withdrew his pipe from his pocket .
he reloaded it and again lit it with a glowing ember from the fire .
after a couple of puffs , sarn continued his tale .
the captain was most interested in finding a harbor which we could sail into to see if we could find fresh water and meat .
we sailed east , along the coast , exploring . ''
bearls eyes shone with anticipation .
what sort of land was it ?
the mountains gave way to rocky cliffs which guarded what looked like a rich land within .
we could see forests and plains in the distance .
it looked like a wonderful land just beyond our reach .
we could not find a suitable anchorage , so we continued sailing along .
towards evening of that day , we finally turned towards the north .
the winds drove us further out to sea , where we lay just watching .
we could see an opening in the rocky shore that we thought was a harbor .
we could make out what looked like garrisons in the rocks , guarding this harbor . ''
were they ? ''
bearl 's questioning eyes leaned closer to sarn .
his pipe had gone out .
sarn took it from his mouth and knocked the ashes from the bowl on his boot .
he repeated the earlier ceremony and blew a ring of smoke out towards the now dimming fire .
we never got in close enough to see , lad .
the sun set and the captain elected to wait until morning before we explored closer .
we got close enough before dark struck to see a vast , green land that filled the western horizon .
it was a land of mountains and forests .
how come you didnt land there ?
bearl pressed again with another question .
sarn withdrew the pipe from his mouth .
with his free hand , he rubbed the stubble on his chin .
his voice dropped low .
a storm came up in the night and drove us before it .
for three days the winds blew , driving us far from that land .
when the winds and rain abated , we could not see the land anymore .
the white mountain was gone .
why didnt you sail back ?
the mariner smiled .
we had been out almost five months at this point .
since we had not been able to land and re provision we had just enough food and water for the return trip .
the captain elected to return home .
what kind of land do you think it was ?
a smile played across sarns face .
it was a paradise , young bearl .
we saw great forests and mountains .
great mists arose from those mountains .
i have always yearned to return there .
why didnt you ?
marials question floated across the fire , her young eyes glittering in the fires light .
as soon as we returned the first of the barbarian wars broke out .
in the meantime your grandfather had died .
the new king , your father , could not afford to fund any more of the discovery voyages .
it took all the resources of the kingdom to fend off the barbarians .
so that land is still out there , waiting for discovery again ?
the old man smiled .
yes , but , that has been many , many years ago , bearl .
i was yet young , but had sailed on many voyages .
i did not dream that one would be my last .
bearl glanced at his brother geron .
someday , brother , we will go there .
geron stood up .
maybe , bearl .
however , the barbarian wars have sapped our kingdoms strength .
and father says there is more rumor of war .
derthon desires our land and is now gathering his strength for another blow .
at that moment the queen appeared .
it is time for bed , children .
you must arise early tomorrow .
the kings will review the troops tomorrow and requires all three of you to ride with him on the chariot .
the magic spell broken , bearl and the others trudged off to bed .
he dreamed that night a wonderful vision of the white rock , glistening off a mountain high above a glistening blue ocean .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents darkness falls a picnic lunch occupied the grass on the lawn behind the palace .
bearl , marial and geron sprawled on the fragrant grass enjoying the food .
glasses of cider , clear and cool , stood in the afternoon sun .
roast fowl flanked steamed vegetables nearby .
bearl sipped at his cider and raised the glass a bit too high .
marial laughed as drops of cider dripped from bearl 's chin .
clumsy oaf , '' she said , her voice shaking with laughter .
he dabbed at his chin with a napkin and shot a warning look at his sister , that glass has a hole in it .
it leaks all over the place . ''
geron snorted and said , it is n't the glass , brother , you just ca n't handle it .
it is too complicated for you . ''
the mirth on their faces dissolved into alarm as the ground began to shake .
glasses fell over spilling their contents dishes vibrated their food right from them .
bearl , alarm in his eyes , watched as his sister and brother dissolved into nothingness .
bearl , wake up . ''
the words jarred him awake .
he looked into the eyes of his mother , queen shar , who was shaking his bed to wake him .
a sleepy fog clouded his mind .
the fog broke up at her words .
bearl , you must come at once .
sarn is calling for you . ''
sarn .
what is wrong with sarn ? ''
he is dying , bearl .
he has asked for you . ''
as he threw the covers off , bearl stood .
sarn ?
dying ?
how ? ''
as bearl dressed , the queen said , he has been sick many months , bearl .
he did n't want me to tell you .
but now he is dying and he wants to see you . ''
bearl finished dressing and followed his mother through the royal quarters .
sarn 's apartment in the royal quarters , as the old man was a trusted servant .
bearl entered to find sarn lying in his bed , his face gray and his eyes closed .
his breathing was so shallow the bearl was at first sure that he was already dead .
he slipped up beside the old man , whose eyes flickered and opened .
bearl , '' he said .
it is good that you have come . ''
bearl 's eyes , brimming with tears , focused on his old servant and friend .
sarn , why did n't you tell me you were sick ? ''
i did not want our last days together marred by sadness , young master . ''
if you die , i will have many days of sadness , sarn . ''
the old man smiled .
do not be sad , young master .
be glad that my troubles are over and my pain ends . ''
bearl , his young eyes brimmed with tears , reached for and clutched the old man 's hand .
you ca n't die , sarn .
i need you .
who will arrange my clothing and shine my shoes ? ''
you will find another servant , young master . ''
anguish welled up in bearl 's voice .
i do not want another servant , sarn .
i want you .
you are my friend . ''
sarn touched his lips with his index finger and said , quiet , young master .
i do not have much time , as death draws near .
i can see him behind you , beckoning to me . ''
bearl turned and saw nothing .
he is not here , sarn .
we are alone . ''
sarn smiled .
only those he has come for may see him , young master .
he has not come for you , only me . ''
sarn coughed , and then continued in a weaker voice .
for many days now i have walked close to the land of the dead . ''
his eyes fastened on bearl .
the dead know many things , young master .
i have sensed them and they have told me of deeds in the future . ''
whose future , sarn ? ''
yours , young master . ''
sarn closed his eyes for a moment .
bearl was afraid that his friend had gone .
however , the eyes flickered again and the lips began to move .
do you remember that story i told you , bearl ?
the story of the land of the white rock ? ''
of course i remember , sarn .
i remember all your stories . ''
that story is the most important , young master .
you must never forget that story . ''
i will never forget that story , sarn .
i will never forget you . ''
the eyes closed again .
this time they stayed closed for many minutes .
a struggle appeared to be going on behind those eyes .
at length they opened again .
i have stayed death 's hand for the last time , young prince .
the next time he reaches for my soul he will take it . ''
sarn 's eyes fastened on bearl 's eyes .
there is a time of trouble coming young master .
a time of terrible trouble .
you must remember the land of the white rock . ''
why , sarn ?
why should i remember the land of the white rock ? ''
fear entered sarn 's eyes as he looked into bearl 's face .
he is touching me again , young master .
it is time for me to leave you . ''
sarn 's chest rose one last time .
he closed his eyes and exhaled .
the white rock , young master .
you must remember the land of the white rock . ''
the words tailed away into one last raspy cough .
the chest stilled and the eyes closed for the last time .
bearl threw himself across the now quiet chest .
sarn , sarn , please do n't leave me . ''
the eyes remained closed this time and the voice stayed still .
death had won and had already claimed its prize .
bearls tears ran until there were no more tears to give .
the spartan quarters of the king 's chamber at the northern garrison lacked all the amenities of the palace of the city on the sea .
the lack of amenities was not what concerned bearl .
father , why must you ride forth ? ''
his father , king rud , got up from his chair and strode to the window .
the barbarians have assailed us for many years , bearl .
this is my chance to strike a fatal blow at king derthon . ''
is this the message you received from king neld ?
that derthon is vulnerable ? ''
the king nodded .
king neld has told me that derthon camps in the lyess valley .
desertions and disease weaken his army .
he is vulnerable to an attack . ''
bearl glanced at the chart that lay on the table between them .
you must pass through the gorgen chasm to get there , father .
that is an ideal place for a trap . ''
king neld holds the heights of the chasm , bearl .
he promises that if we attack , he will swing in behind us and aid us in our battle . ''
i do n't like it , father . ''
bearl 's finger traced the length of the chasm .
once your army enters it , there will be no escape . ''
i trust king neld , bearl .
if he says he will aid us , he will aid us . ''
bearl felt a tug at his innards .
he was young , only fifteen .
however , his father had schooled him well in military matters .
geron , too at fourteen , had trained under the best generals .
both boys were mature beyond their years .
father , i do not think you should lead this attack . ''
a king must lead his soldiers , bearl .
i can not order my troops into battle .
i must lead them . ''
this troubles me , father .
i do not hold the same trust for king neld that you do . ''
we have been friends for many years , bearl .
neld has no reason to betray me . ''
the barbarians batter his land also , father , but they have never taken it when they could have many times .
i suspect he is in league with derthon and seeks to lead you into ambush . ''
i have made my decision , bearl .
the army rides in the morning . ''
bearl 's eyes sought his father 's eyes .
may the blessing of the gods go with you father . ''
king rud reached out and clasped his son 's hand .
in my absence , you will be in charge , bearl .
it will be up to you and geron to defend our land . ''
we will stay vigilant , father .
the northern garrison will not fall while we are here . ''
their eyes met .
if i fall , bearl , you will be king .
geron will be the commanding general .
that is a lot of responsibility for lads of fifteen and fourteen . ''
we will not fail you , father . ''
it is not just me you must not fail .
our kingdom has withstood many assaults by the barbarians .
they can not prevail .
i will not have blood of the lion kingdom mixed with barbarian blood . ''
we will not fail , father .
we will defend the kingdom . ''
with a last embrace , the king left the room to finish preparations with his general .
day had not yet broken when the army rode off .
the sound of hooves and blaring trumpets filled the morning .
bearl stood at the parapets .
he watched as the army streamed north , towards the battle that would break the barbarian king .
as the sun tickled the eastern horizon , he could see the dust that arose from those thundering hooves .
then the cloud disappeared from his sight .
bearl implanted the image of his father , fully arrayed for battle , riding at the head of his troops .
it was a memory which time never erased from his mind .
the day passed and turned into night .
bearl stood on the parapet , his brother geron at his side .
servants brought food and drink that lay untouched on the tray .
bearl paced and watched .
another day and another night .
at dawn on the third day , bearl could see dust arising from the hooves of a single rider approaching the garrison .
a soldier , clutching his reins tight in his dying hands , rode into the garrison .
bearl ran to him as men removed him from his horse and laid him on a blanket in the dust covered parade grounds .
someone thrust a glass of wine to his lips .
the soldier , blood covering his face and an arrow still protruding from his side , opened his eyes one last time .
neld betrayed us . ''
he closed his eyes .
after a moment , he reopened them .
all is lost , '' he said , his voice low and raspy .
the battle is over .
the king is dead . ''
again , the eyes closed .
with a start , the soldier 's eyes flew open .
they are coming .
king derthon is coming . ''
a quiver ran through his body .
then the soldier lay still .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents a temporary victory two armies massed on the plains before the garrison .
bearl and geron stood side by side watching the armies array themselves for battle .
derthon has neld in the more exposed position , '' said geron .
he plans to allow neld to break himself against our walls and then follow after neld has softened us up . ''
he does n't have enough men to attack the garrison himself .
he needs neld 's forces . ''
neld is a treacherous snake , '' said geron .
derthon would never dare to attack us without his help . ''
bearl studied the army of neld .
we know the nature of neld 's forces .
if we can kill neld , they will take it as a bad omen and leave the field . ''
then we must find a way to kill neld . ''
geron glanced at bearl .
do you have a plan ? ''
bearl shrugged .
not yet , brother .
i am sure i will have soon , though . ''
geron pointed to the field .
a group of soldiers was marching towards the walls under a white banner .
they have sent a party to parley . ''
bearl signaled for the opening of the door .
a few minutes later , a messenger stood before bearl .
the man bowed and said , king neld requests a parley between you and him in an hour . ''
bearl 's eyes bored into the messenger 's eyes .
where does he request that we have this meeting ? ''
he requests that you come to a neutral point between our forces and the walls . ''
bearl paused as his mind raced through the possibilities .
then he said , tell neld that i will meet with him in an hour .
only six men may accompany either of us . ''
the messenger bowed .
i will tell the king . ''
the man walked away .
derthon makes it seem that neld is in charge . ''
in a way , neld is .
if neld 's forces desert him , derthon will have to abandon the field . ''
geron glanced at bearl .
i think that you have formed a plan . ''
bearl gripped his sword hilt and said , i have , brother . ''
i have a feeling i will not like your plan . ''
you will see my plan soon enough , brother . ''
geron 's eyes studied bearl .
he knew better than to try to change bearl 's mind once he made it .
two rows of men , six in each , eyed each other across the small strip of land that separated them .
bearl was the first to step forward into the center of the two lines .
king neld soon faced him .
so , the boy king has ascended to take his father 's kingdom . ''
bearl 's eyes pierced those of the older man .
through treachery and betrayal i have .
now i face my father 's betrayer .
what is it you wish , traitor ? ''
king derthon and i do not wish to invade and destroy your kingdom , boy prince .
derthon desires a wife .
you have a sister .
an alliance between derthon and yourself would be helpful for both of you . ''
bearl spat into the dust .
never will i give my sister to an animal like derthon . ''
bearl 's eyes again met neld 's eyes .
what is in this for you , neld ? ''
neld smiled .
your mother is still quite beautiful .
and a widow now , i might add . ''
bearl 's hand gripped the hilt of his sword .
never would my mother wed the man who betrayed my father .
is that all you came here for , to insult the house of my father ? ''
a smile played across neld 's face .
not only did i betray him , i was the one to kill him . ''
bearl withdrew his sword and thrust the blade into the ground between king neld 's feet .
the kings looked at each other .
one 's eyes glinted in anger .
the other 's eyes smiled in derision .
you , a mere boy , dare to challenge me , a grown man ? ''
not only do i challenge you , i mean to kill you . ''
neld 's face dissolved into a sneer .
not only have i killed the father , i will get to kill the son as well . ''
neld gripped the hilt of the sword in front of him .
i accept your challenge , boy prince .
at dawn , we will meet here on this spot .
in view of our two armies , i will rest your head on a pike and parade it around your pathetic fortress .
then i will have your mother and derthon will have your sister .
we will both have your kingdom . ''
at that , neld strode away .
bearl , geron and the rest of his escort returned to the fortress .
once they were back in their private quarters , geron gripped his arm .
bearl , are you crazy ?
you have just challenged king neld to a combat to the death . ''
the king insulted the honor of our house , geron .
what did you expect me to do ? ''
it was what neld wanted you to do .
he wants to kill you , bearl . ''
i want to kill him , geron .
one of us will have our wishes granted tomorrow at dawn . ''
geron faced bearl , placed his hands on his shoulder and looked him in the eye .
bearl , you can not go through with this .
you are our king .
let me do this for you . ''
bearl shook his head .
no , geron .
it is because i am the king that i must do this . ''
neld is older and stronger , bearl .
what chance do you have ? ''
it is true brother that neld is older and stronger than i .
however , that is n't necessarily an advantage .
he favors his right foot .
he is slower than i am .
i have certain advantages . ''
king neld is an excellent swordsman . ''
bearl lifted his arms and placed his on his brother 's shoulders .
the looked into each other 's eyes .
have i not had the best teacher in the land , geron ? ''
it is true that father was the best swordsmen in the kingdom .
but neld ... , '' at this geron 's voice trailed away .
i guess what is done is done .
you have challenged him in front of both armies .
you must go through with it . ''
yes , i must , brother . ''
bearl walked to the window that overlooked the plains .
darkness was falling and the glint of firelight of hundreds of campfires surrounded the garrison .
tomorrow morning he would avenge his father .
there could be no other outcome .
bearl faced king neld .
the men circled each other , swords gripped in their right hands , daggers in the left .
a circle of their soldiers surrounded them , allowing no escape .
it would be a fight to the death .
king neld 's face showed his contempt and perceived superiority over his young adversary .
he held his sword aloft , waiting for an opening and a chance to strike bearl .
bearl turned , watching the older man , parrying the initial thrusts .
he studied king neld 's movements .
the man favored his right leg .
it was a slight limp , almost invisible to untrained eyes .
his father had trained him to study an enemy before attacking .
find out his strengths and weaknesses and when you know those weaknesses , attack without mercy .
bearl waited , darting back and forth , using the nimbleness of youth to avoid the cold , sharp blade .
king neld drove the young king back with several hard strikes of the sword .
bearl felt the hard shocks of the impacts sting his hands , heard the metallic clangs as their swords met .
his sweaty palms had trouble gripping the hilt .
he watched with dismayed eyes as neld knocked his sword away , leaving him with only the dagger .
a smile crossed the older man 's face as he raised his sword for the final blow .
swift as a mouse , bearl darted off to his left .
neld leaned on his right leg to brace himself for the blow and winced as pain shot through his body .
bearl , seeing his opponent hesitate , moved in close , swinging the dagger up .
neld 's face froze as the dagger bit into his side .
blood flowed on the dust of the road and he fell to his knees .
with a thud , the king fell forward , the final taste he would have would be the taste of the dust of the road on which he had died .
bearl stood , strode to his sword and picked it up .
he walked to the body of king neld and held the sword high over his head .
the blade bit down and the head of king neld rolled across the dusty road .
his men fell upon the king 's men and a small battle raged .
their swords tasted the blood of king neld 's men that day as they killed the king 's honor guard .
king neld 's horrified army watched in stunned silence .
the commanders held a hurried conference .
their king lay dead in the field , his beheaded body already feeding the flies that infested the bloody neck .
the soldiers of king neld deserted the field .
it was too strong an omen .
they would not fight a king who had vanquished their king .
bearl and his men returned to the garrison .
he joined his brother at the parapet and gazed out over the plain .
derthon 's forces were now alone .
king derthon rode to the fore .
he raised his sword in frustration and signaled to his men .
the barbarian force turned and disappeared into the distance .
you have won , bearl , '' said geron .
the armies have gone . ''
i have bought us some time , that is all , geron .
derthon will have his vengeance upon king neld 's kingdom .
his son is incompetent and derthon will overwhelm him .
in a year , maybe two , derthon will overcome neld 's kingdom .
he can then consolidate his forces .
then he will come for us . ''
we will be ready , bearl .
no one has ever bested the north garrison .
it never shall be . ''
i hope you are right , geron . ''
as bearl watched the retreating barbarian army , he was not sure .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents a plan emerges from disaster the plaza below bearl 's window under normal circumstances would be crowded with the midday crowd of people going about their business .
but this was not normal circumstances .
instead of crowds of people , there were the death wagons , trundling through the streets on their macabre duties transporting their blanket covered cargoes .
the wagons conveyed their dismal loads outside the city for internment in mass graves .
the origin of the deadly plague was unknown .
some said it came from a ship recently arrived from the southern koaic kingdoms .
others felt that it was punishment from the gods for straying from their ways .
bearl had no time to worry about where the infection came from .
he had time only to deal with its results .
the contagion knew no bounds , attacking both commoner and royalty .
bearl was still weak from his bout with the deadly plaque .
his sister marial , recently bedridden with the disease , had returned to her duties completing her and bearl 's latest project .
he only knew that a person infected once with the disease did not get it again .
he and marial had had it .
both , by some miracle he could not fathom , had recovered from its rigors .
geron occupied bearl 's mind .
geron 's absence dragged on longer than originally planned .
had he too been stricken ?
the numbers of the dead and the task of removing them from the city occupied all of bearl 's remaining soldiers and there were none to send to the northern garrison to see what was delaying geron 's return .
the year since his combat with king neld had gone as bearl predicted , only quicker .
derthon conquered his kingdom with ease , taking neld 's daughter as concubine .
he said that he would only marry the beautiful daughter of king rud .
his marriage to her would legitimize his hold on the lion kingdom , after slaying bearl and geron .
and at thirteen , she would promise many children for the royal household .
geron 's task many weeks ago was to check on the northern garrison and spy out derthon 's legions .
word came down that the barbarian king was massing for a strike on summer 's eve , the traditional day for the barbarians to begin their summer campaign .
many weeks geron had been gone .
the disease struck the outlying villages , leaving many completely depopulated and the rotting corpses of its victims lying in the streets and in their beds with no one to tend them .
bearl 's once teeming kingdom was now a gutted relic of what is once was .
his memory returned to the last words of sarn dorsh , who had admonished him to remember the land of the white rock .
the old man foretold a time of terrible troubles .
sarn was right about the time of troubles .
bearl closed his eyes and anguished .
his land decimated by disease and threatened by a merciless barbarian king .
the only hope lay in his plan .
a plan that marial was administrating even now .
circumstances had forced a maturity upon her beyond her years and the royal household 's functioning had devolved to her .
bearl worried about geron 's absence .
the plan was coming to fruition and bearl did not wish to implement it without him .
a troop of mounted soldiers proceeding slowly along the north road drew his attention .
he recognized his brother 's armor .
geron had returned .
bearl waited .
geron would soon come and report .
he turned at a sound .
geron entered .
bearl gasped at his appearance .
geron 's eyes were deep sunk , his complexion pale and his demeanor that of complete exhaustion .
he walked to the wooden table which occupied the center of the room , sat down and poured a glass of wine from a decanter on the table .
he took a sip of the wine , sat the glass down and glanced at his brother .
it is an evil time we live in , bearl .
it is evil indeed , bearl said , clasping his brothers hand .
i see you have returned from the northern garrison .
geron sipped again at the wine and said in a tired voice , there is no northern garrison , bearl .
bearl turned to look at his brother , surprise in his eyes .
what do you mean that there is no northern garrison ?
i mean there is no northern garrison .
the plague struck it .
the few men who are left are dying .
they could not hold off any attack .
those men who accompanied me are all that is left .
i also caught the fever and lay sick many days .
it was only two days ago i could leave my bed .
i gathered the remainder of the men and returned .
bearl remembered the small column of soldiers which had accompanied geron .
those that accompanied you are all that is left of the hundreds that manned it ? ''
that is n't the worst of it , bearl .
we passed many villages on our way south .
there are almost no people left .
the land stinks of death . ''
bearl again walked to the window .
marial and i have both been stricken and recovered also . ''
he turned to look at geron .
death has been busy all over the kingdom .
thousands have died .
our numbers are too few to send any more to occupy garrison .
we do not even have enough soldiers and knights to defend our castle .
what will we do ?
bearl turned to look at geron .
remember old sarn dorsh ?
geron smiled .
how could i forget that old man ?
he spun many tales when we were young children .
that time was not so many years ago , geron . ''
bearl paused .
he felt he had lived a lifetime in those few short years .
the last story he told has been on my mind . ''
you mean the tale of that other land ?
amusement sketched itself across his face it was a legend , bearl .
old man dorsh told many tales .
but what if it was true , geron ?
what if there is a land far to the northwest that we could go to ?
geron glanced at his brother .
you are serious , arent you ?
bearl wheeled about .
yes , i am serious .
that land is just waiting for us to discover it .
i think we should go there .
geron stood up .
what if it doesnt exist , bearl ?
what if old sarn was just making it up ?
why would he do that , geron ?
he loved to tell stories , bearl .
but they were about his voyages .
using the archives i have verified most of what he said .
most of them were , but not all , bearl .
bearl glanced at his brother .
what have we to gain by staying here , brother ?
we hold title to a land we can not defend .
our numbers are few , and our enemies are strong .
if we stay here , the barbarians will overwhelm us and kill us .
our women will bear barbarian babies .
he thought of their sister .
marial will be forced to marry a barbarian king .
she will be a slave .
our father died protecting this land .
we should not abandon it so easily .
our father died protecting us .
we have to do what we can to preserve our people .
we can not do this by staying here facing slaughter and slavery .
i am a soldier , bearl .
i want to die a soldier , not upon some formless sea , sailing for some land that may exist only in legend .
bearl studied his brother .
he saw the passion in his eyes .
geron , we will not abandon our land .
i have a plan .
geron looked at his brother .
he respected bearl .
bearl was also a warrior .
he knew that .
but bearl was also crafty .
what is your plan , bearl ?
bearl walked again to the window and gazed out upon the city .
we have already survived the plague , geron .
those who have had it are not subject to it again .
he turned to face geron .
the barbarians have not been exposed to its rigors .
it has not invaded their land .
geron nodded .
this is true , bearl .
what has this to do with your plan ?
i have gathered together some of our lesser treasures , geron .
we will place the treasure in a chest in the main hall of the palace when we leave .
i have mixed some of the blood and bones of the last of its victims with the treasure .
when the barbarians rummage through the treasure , the disease will infect them .
some will carry it back to their homeland .
a smile crossed gerons face .
you will allow the plague do our fighting for us .
bearl nodded .
i have had the remaining ships of our fleet readied and provisioned .
some of our treasure is on our ship .
we have hidden the rest .
we will sail for this paradise of which sarn spoke .
if we find it , we will stay there and spy out the land .
after a year , we will send a ship back to see what has happened here .
if the barbarians are dead , as i suspect they will be , we will return to our land .
if not , we will have found a new home to recover our numbers .
then , after a few years we can return to retake our kingdom .
what if we do not find it ?
the ships will be well provisioned .
we can last some months at sea .
we are sure to find some island or land of some kind to rest and provision .
if not , we will make new plans .
geron paced across the tiled floor .
i like your plan , bearl .
have you discussed this with marial ?
she has been in charge of provisioning the ships .
we are almost ready to sail .
in seven days we will be ready .
it seems you have been busy in my absence .
bearl smiled .
i regret not discussing this with you .
but you were away many weeks , and i did not trust sending you our plans by messenger .
that was a wise course , brother .
the barbarians have scouting parties out .
they might have captured a messenger .
that was my fear , geron .
the barbarians must not know any part of this plan .
how many of our people can we save ?
a troubled look crossed bearls face .
we can save the entire kingdom , geron .
disbelief crossed gerons face .
surely we cant save the entire kingdom on a few ships ?
the plague was terrible here in the capital , geron .
it was much worse in the outlying villages .
most were completely depopulated .
there are only a few hundred of us left .
geron sat down .
it is much worse than i feared , then .
it was very bad , geron .
we have not even enough to defend this castle , let alone our city .
we must leave .
geron joined bearl and together they studied their city .
it may be one of the last times we look upon it , bearl .
the barbarians will destroy it .
when we return , it will be a pile of rubble .
then we will rebuild that pile of rubble , geron .
this will be our land again .
but to keep it , we must leave it .
lets hope that the plan unfolds the way you envision , bearl .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents disaster on the wings of a storm a week later , on the morning tide , the small fleet set sail .
the kings ship , the morningstar , was in the lead with four ships trailing on each side , forming a v as they rode the ocean waves .
from his perch on their ship , bearl , marial and geron watched the city disappear into the distance as they rode the morning tide out to sea .
they watched until the sea encompassed them completely .
the sun lay to the east , its radiance cast on the surface of the white capped waves .
do you think we will ever see our home again , marial asked as the sea finally obscured the land .
yes , marial , we will .
in a week the barbarians will sweep down into our land .
they will avoid the bodies out of fear of infection .
they will find the treasure we seeded with the disease .
in months the plaque will decimate them .
they will not be able to hold the treasure they have gained .
we will return to punish the remainder and take back our land .
and in the meantime , we will have gained a toehold in this new land .
perhaps people already live there .
we could gain a valuable trading outpost , as well as regaining our kingdom .
bearl looked at his sister , surprise in his eyes .
you have guessed my thoughts , marial .
this terrible tragedy could turn into a great thing for our people .
geron turned from the rail .
we must first find this land , bearl .
the only clue we have is the story sarn told .
he said they traveled due northeast for four months .
we will duplicate that heading .
in four months we should see the white mountain he spoke of .
days and then weeks followed .
seasickness and other minor maladies were their only opponents during the initial days of the voyage .
after some time passed , the passengers and crews adjusted to life at sea .
they adapted to their new routines and life was good .
it is during such times that tragedy strikes .
bearl and geron watched as storm clouds gathered on the horizon .
thunder rumbled across the waters and lightning flashed in the sky .
the crew furled the sails anticipating the coming storm .
the waves rose and fell , the ships bobbed on the surface .
it will strike us soon , bearl .
it looks like a monster of a storm .
bearl nodded .
we have prepared the ships as best we can .
they are good , stout ships .
we should survive .
if we can stay together , it will be a miracle .
the two entered the hatch , pulling it shut behind them .
bearl fastened the clasp .
the storm swept over them .
the winds tore at the sails , and the waves threatened to overturn the boats .
all day and night the storm raged .
the people stowed below decks experienced a nightmare from which there was no awakening .
the waves crashed against the sides of the ship , they could hear the wind screaming .
it seemed to cry their names , as though seeking them out for special vengeance for trespassing in her realm .
by morning the storm passed .
bearl and geron emerged from the hatch .
the stood on the deck and looked all around .
they were alone on the wakening sea .
geron walked to the rail .
do you think the other ships survived the storm ?
i do not know , said bearl .
where do you think we are ?
my best guess would probably be wrong , geron .
the storm has buffeted us about for hours .
we could be anywhere .
it will be night before we can see the stars and we can use the guide star to determine our position .
after a moments reflection , bearl said , we should hold our position here until tonight .
after the navigator determines our place , we will decide what to do .
geron nodded .
in the meantime , we wait .
even then , though , we can not determine with any certainty what course we should follow .
with a shrug , bearl said , all we can do at this point is to try to resume our course .
and hope that the other ships can follow us .
if they even survived , geron said , uncertainty tingeing his voice .
the day passed and the sun again rested from its labors .
clouds blew in and obscured the stars .
another day passed and then another .
finally , the clouds broke and that night they saw the stars .
the navigator sighted the guide star and went into his cabin .
after performing some calculations , he returned to bearl .
he laid them down in front of bearl and said , the storm blew us leagues off course .
we have to sail south for two days to get back where we were .
then i can not even be sure that we will be on the exact same heading we were on .
bearl studied the calculations and looked at his navigator .
do them again to be sure , he said .
if you arrive at the same result , we will steer on the heading you indicate .
if fortune is with us , we will arrive at our destination in a month .
the navigator nodded , picked up his paper and left .
geron glanced at bearl .
do you think he is right ?
bearl leaned back in his chair .
the lamp on the table cast a golden glow about the bridge .
he rubbed his chin .
i dont know .
his calculations look right , as far as i understand them .
all we can do is trust his knowledge .
it has been many years since we have sailed on the open sea , bearl .
our experience is limited .
bearl nodded .
but now , i see no other course .
we can not return .
the plague , if it has indeed afflicted the barbarians , has not had enough time to reduce their numbers .
we have only a few fighting men , even if it has .
we must sail on .
the night passed .
the navigator returned .
i have checked and rechecked , sire .
my calculations seem correct .
sail due south all day .
i will recheck our position tonight .
bearl nodded , and then gave the necessary orders .
then he went to his quarters for some sleep .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents the white rock bearl stood at the rail studying the horizon with the glass .
there was nothing to see but water in every direction .
marial was beside him , her dark hair streaming in the breeze .
do you see anything , bearl ?
water , he said .
all i see is water .
do you think it is really out there , bearl ?
i do n't know .
geron thinks we are chasing a legend , a story with a bad ending .
geron is a soldier , bearl .
he believes only in what he sees .
i am also a soldier , marial .
but you are more than a soldier , bearl .
you are a king and a visionary .
you have to believe it is there .
she turned to face her brother .
you and i have always believed sarns tales .
why would he not tell the truth ?
what if he did n't marial ?
even if he was , are we on the right course ?
the storm drove us astray .
we can not know if the corrections we made were right .
marial reached out and took bearls hands between hers .
we have to believe , bearl .
we have to go on .
it is too late to turn back .
a smile crossed bearls face .
you are always the optimist , marial .
you always believe .
i believe in you , bearl .
you have led us this far .
you will choose the right course .
i know you will .
bearl squeezed his sisters hands .
if not for you , my dear sister , i would have given up long ago .
hearing the sound of footsteps behind him , bearl turned to see the quartermaster standing , hat in hand , behind him .
quartermaster biv , what is it you wish ? ''
sire , there is something you need to see in the hold . ''
what is it , quartermaster ? ''
i think it best you see it , sire . ''
bearl and marial followed the man as he opened the hatch and the three descended into the dark interior of the ship .
the quartermaster pointed to several casks near the side of the ship .
bearl walked to them and peered inside one which had the end removed .
the flour inside teemed with worms .
he glanced at the quartermaster .
it was the storm , sire .
many of the casks and boxes have broken open spoiling the contents . ''
bearl glanced again at the sodden mess in the barrel .
how much is bad ? ''
over half of our supplies , '' said the quartermaster .
this is terrible , '' said marial .
we shall starve before we reach land . ''
that is not the worst of it , sire .
some of the water casks also sustained damage .
much has leaked away and others have become rancid .
we have lost most of our remaining fresh water . ''
bearl replaced the lid on the cask and he and marial returned to deck .
the sun was dipping low in the west as he and marial returned to the deck .
geron left his task of supervising the rigging and joined them .
what has happened , bearl ?
i saw you and marial go below deck . ''
much of our food has spoiled , geron .
the barrels became damaged in the storm . ''
how much do we have left , bearl ? ''
we have supplies for a week at most , geron .
in addition to that , most of the water has also spoiled .
there is only enough to last us a few days . ''
geron glanced at the sea which surrounded them .
we are all alone out here , bearl with little food and water .
it has been months since we have seen land .
we can not go back .
what shall we do ? ''
bearl shaded his eyes against the setting sun .
we have nets , '' he said .
we can drag them behind the boat .
perhaps we can catch some fish . ''
it will take a lot of fish to feed the crew and passengers , bearl . ''
it is all we can do . ''
geron turned to walk away .
i will see to it . ''
the man strode off .
marial reached for bearl 's hands .
we will see the white rock , bearl .
we will find our paradise . ''
i hope you are right , marial . ''
the body , wrapped in blankets , slid down the ramp and hit the water with a splash .
packed in ballast , the body sank out of sight beneath the waves .
bearl , geron and marial stood together at the rail , watching the body sink .
that is the fourth person to die in four days , bearl . ''
bearl turned to watch the few people who managed to come topside to attend the short ceremony .
many lay in the holds below , too sick to move .
he glanced at the eastern horizon .
the sky was lightening .
perhaps today would be the day they sighted the white rock .
a crowd of people gathered around the water barrel .
the sun was rising and it was the time to for the daily water ration .
bearl peered into the barrel as quartermaster biv dipped some out for the first recipients .
this would be the last ration .
he glanced at marial , who stood on the other side of the barrel .
her eyes met his and they moved away from the barrel to the back of the ship where geron was helping pull in the net .
the net contained only a couple of wriggling fish .
at a signal from bearl , the three moved into bearl 's quarters to talk .
our fishing has been a failure , '' said geron .
most times the net contains nothing at all .
other times we only catch two or three small fish .
we will starve if we have to depend on our catches . ''
marial folded her hands on the table .
the food has been gone for days and the last of the water went out this morning . ''
if the barrels had been properly stored , they would n't have broken loose , '' geron said as his eyes burned into marial .
if you had come back to help , maybe we could have done better , '' marial shot back .
bearl slammed his fist on the table .
stop it , both of you .
we can not undo the past .
our people have not taken long voyages for many years .
most of the men with experience loading ships died in the plaque .
we did the best we could .
that is all we can do now . ''
geron glanced at his sister and said , i am sorry , marial .
i did n't mean to skewer you .
but we are responsible for our people and they are on the verge of starvation . ''
marial smiled .
apology accepted , geron . ''
she glanced at bearl .
many are sick now , bearl .
we have had weeks of low rations and now no food at all for days .
if we do n't find land soon , more will die . ''
bearl sighed .
it seems we are sailing to our deaths . ''
geron got up and walked to the window which looked out over the merciless sea .
it would have been better to have stayed and fought .
it would have been better to have died defending our homes in battle than to starve here on this formless sea . ''
i would not have died in battle , geron .
the barbarians would have captured me and subjected me to a fate worse than death . ''
we are not dead yet , '' said bearl .
we still have life .
and hope . ''
geron turned to face bearl .
hope for what ?
to see this imaginary white rock ?
it does n't exist .
it was an old man 's tale . ''
bearl stood up .
i did what seemed best , geron .
our people were going to die at the point of the sword . ''
the sword would have been preferable to this slow , uncertain death we now face . ''
a sharp rap at the door stopped bearl 's retort .
bearl walked to the door and opened it .
the quartermaster was standing outside , his face radiating a wide smile .
you had better come on deck , sire . ''
bearl , followed by marial and geron exited the cabin .
a cry from the lookout , perched high on the main mast in the crow 's nest , rang out .
land ahoy .
to the west , land ahoy .
bearl turned back towards the horizon .
he could see nothing .
he ran to the main mast and clambered up to the lookout nest high above the ship .
the lookout handed bearl his glass .
bearl put the glass to his eye .
there it is , sire , far to the west , a mountain top glittering on the horizon .
bearl trained the glass in the direction indicated by his lookout .
at first he saw nothing .
he moved the glass a bit to the right .
there it was , a white glimmer on the horizon .
he studied it carefully .
that was it .
he knew it was .
he shouted as loud as his voice would permit , we have reached it .
we have reached the white rock .
he handed the glass back to the lookout .
keep your eye trained on it .
do not loose sight of it .
he descended to the deck and ran to the steersman .
bear towards that mark , he said .
do not deviate .
the steersman smiled .
that i will not do , sire .
he ran to marial and they jumped into each others arms , their squeals of laughter echoing over the sea .
geron ran up and slapped bearl on the back .
we did it , bearl .
we have reached the land of sarn 's story .
you were right .
bearl pulled geron into the embrace .
he tripped and the three fell laughing to the deck .
their jubilation was infectious .
loud cheers broke out .
soon there was laughter , singing , and dancing all over the ship .
their long voyage was drawing to a close .
paradise was at hand .
morning mists played across the mountains like ghosts swirling in the wind .
the sun rising behind them played its light across the mountain tops .
one , far in the distance , towered over the others , its white top gleaming in the morning light .
i see no place to land , bearl , said geron .
it seems a barren , rocky coast .
bearl nodded .
i think we follow the coast towards the southeast .
the other direction the shore bends northwest , towards the frozen lands .
geron nodded .
we will lose sight of the white rock , bearl .
yes , but we know it is there .
somewhere we will find an inlet from a river .
we will find a harbor sooner or later .
the ship turned to follow the coast , which slipped away to the southeast .
for two days they followed the coast , seeing only mountains and sheer rock bluffs which towered over the sea .
winds were unfavorable and their progress was slow .
still , the people starved and two more died .
on the third day , they rounded the coast as it fell to the south .
a pair of promontories presented themselves with a channel between them .
bearl had the ship turn and pause at the outlet .
geron stood beside bearl and marial as they studied the channel .
should we go in ?
bearl studied the sun .
it was still early morning .
yes , we have more than enough time to explore it .
they lowered the oars and the ship entered the harbor .
the morning sun revealed a barren land , painted with some substance coating it which made it bright red .
as they paused , a huge red creature appeared on the far shore , near a dark looking river .
the creature was studying them .
then it raised its hands .
a red cloud emanated from its mouth and rushed towards them .
reverse course , bearl shouted .
the ship paused as the oarsmen tried to turn the ship .
the red storm struck the ship broadside .
they had furled the sails , thus sparing the masts .
careening far over , the ship still came close to capsizing , but the oarsmen won the battle and the ship righted , turned and sailed out of the harbor .
a thick red dust settled on their skins , which burned from contact with it .
a hideous smell hung like an acrid shroud in the air .
as they again reached the open ocean , the red storm passed .
that did not look like paradise , said geron .
bearl dusted his face and arms off .
no , it did not .
what kind of creature was that ?
marial asked as she brushed the red dust from her dark hair with a thin , white hand .
i dont know , but this dust stinks .
it seemed to cover that whole land .
i hope the rest of this place is not like that , said geron .
if it is , we will perish .
i think we must continue the direction we were going , said bearl .
they turned their course to follow a westerly course , following the coast .
here there were no mountains .
they could see a low lying land , red colored and with no vegetation .
it was a barren and desolate looking place .
the winds now were favorable and the ship skimmed the waves .
bearl and geron stood at the prow , watching the waves pass by the ship .
we are still going northwest , bearl , '' said geron .
perhaps we have found a large island , with that red monster and his barren land the only occupants . ''
if that is true , we will perish .
we must find food and water soon , or we will all die . ''
at least the net is harvesting fish .
we have food . ''
but still no water , '' said bearl .
the sun dipped low when they finally reached another chain of mountains .
marial gazed upon them .
do you think this is the same chain we saw before ?
the ship was laying several leagues out to see .
bearl studied the mountains .
he pointed , yes , i can see the white rock .
we have circumvented a large peninsula .
geron was studying the coast with the glass .
i can see a channel below those mountains .
it might be a place to anchor for the night .
bearl gave the command to sail for the point indicated by his brother .
as they approached it , geron said , there is a small river there .
it looks too small for us to enter with this ship .
but this small harbor will afford us protection for the night , said bearl .
i think we anchor here .
we can allow the people to bathe in the ocean and we can wash this disgusting dust from the decks .
the oarsmen positioned the ship , and they dropped the anchor .
darkness fell .
i think in the morning we will take one of the small boats and explore that river .
maybe we can replenish our water .
we should find game to hunt .
we can all do with some fresh meat .
geron nodded .
do you think that we could settle here ?
bearl shook his head .
we are still too close to that creature for my part .
here at least there is green grass and trees , said marial .
i think we will stay here a few days to rest .
then we must move on .
we should find a better spot to stay .
we hope , said geron .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents safe sanctuary marial leaned against the rail of the ship peering up the small river .
her eyes were watching the return of a small boat filled with her countrymen and some casks of fresh water .
bearl stood beside her , his eyes equally engrossed in the scene .
geron stood and took the rope .
he pulled the boat close and , without waiting for the crew to secure it , clamored up the rope ladder and in moments , he stood beside bearl .
we have found nothing but a deserted village , bearl .
there are the remains of some small , sunken boats near the remnants of a pier .
you have found no people ?
we saw none , but we felt someone was watching us .
there are dense forests on the mountains and hills .
i dont think this is a good place for us to settle .
geron shook his head .
no , this river is too small for our ship to enter .
and it is too close to that monster , for my taste .
with a nod , bearl agreed .
i think we will send out a hunting party to see if we can find game .
we should also fill our water casks with more fresh water .
there is a well in the village .
we tasted the water and it is good so we used it to fill our casks .
there are meadows near , which bear signs of once having been cultivated .
we saw game animals grazing in them .
we should easily fulfill our needs of meat here , before moving on .
then that is what we shall do , said bearl .
the ship lay at anchor for a few days .
the hunters had luck and replenished the food stock .
while the hunters went about their business , bearl had the water casks refilled .
on the fifth day , geron approached the ship on a boat loaded with fresh meat .
as he climbed on board , he walked to bearl .
we have replenished our supplies .
do you think it is time to explore further ?
bearl watched as they hoisted the meat up to deck of the ship .
yes , it is time .
we need to find a place that we can settle .
we have been on this ship many months .
we have been lucky so far .
we have been quite fortunate that only a few have died .
we will ready the ship .
tomorrow morning we will sail , said bearl .
what is our course ?
we will follow the coast .
it bends south now , towards warmer lands .
the season is moving on and it is much too late to plant crops .
we are lucky in that our seed has survived .
we must continue our explorations until we find a suitable spot .
only then can we rest .
i will give the orders , geron said .
he strode from the bridge .
the ship hugged the coast as the voyagers searched for another port .
bearl sat in his cabin studying his log .
they had been on board for almost six months .
how long would it take before they found a place to settle ?
a knock sounded at his door .
enter , he said as he looked up .
geron appeared .
there is an island off the starboard bow , bearl .
i think you should come out and see it .
bearl laid his quill on the table and walked outside .
he walked to the rail and gazed at the island .
it seems like it is a sizable island , said bearl .
geron nodded .
do you think we should explore it ?
bearl studied the forested terrain and said , i think we should sail around it and see how big it is and to see if it has suitable anchorage .
the navigator altered course .
bearl studied the island as they circumvented it .
there is no smoke , he said to geron .
geron was using the glass to study the coast .
he said , i have seen no signs of habitation of any kind .
they were returning to the position they started from when geron said , there , bearl .
there is a small cove .
it looks like a good spot to anchor .
we should enter , then .
they extended the oars and furled the sails .
as the oarsmen worked in unison , the ship entered the cove .
bearl could see a break in the trees , indicating the presence of a small stream .
anchor just off that rocky beach , where the stream enters the sea .
the ship moved into position , and dropped the anchor .
ready two boats and choose a party to go ashore to explore , bearl said to geron .
geron nodded , and moved off to administer the kings command .
an hour later , bearl watched as the explorers climbed into the two boats that lay tied to the ship .
marial stood beside him .
what do you think they will find ?
bearl shrugged .
we will know when they return .
if they return , said marial .
bearl glanced at his sister .
why do you say that ?
marial watched as the boats clunked against the rocky beach .
i was thinking of that creature from our first stop .
what if they encounter another of those ?
that land was completely devastated , said bearl .
if another of those creatures were here , i think that this island would not look so inviting .
i hope you are right .
you are in low spirits this morning , marial .
its just that we have been on this ship so long , bearl .
we have been through so much .
we will find a home , marial .
perhaps we have already done so .
his eyes roved the green land in front of him , hope in his eyes .
i guess it is your turn to be hopeful , bearl .
bearl turned towards his sister and took her hands in his .
we have survived this far , my sister .
we have been fortunate .
what of those other ships that accompanied us ?
what happened to them ?
what was their fate ?
perhaps they will still come , marial .
we survived the storm .
it is possible that the other ships survived also .
maybe the storm blew them further off course than us .
they may still find there way here .
maybe .
her eyes were on her other brother , on the shore of this strange island , leading a group of men into an unknown place .
hours seemed like centuries , but marial would not leave the rail .
bearl brought her food and drink .
the sun passed zenith , and began its fall towards the horizon .
the first stars were twinkling in the gathering twilight when she started , and pointed .
they are returning .
she watched as the men boarded the boats and began rowing back to the ship .
geron was the first to clamor aboard , his face smiling and his eyes bright in the lamplight .
it is completely uninhabited , bearl .
you have inspected the entire island ?
geron nodded , we have even found an ideal spot for a settlement .
there is a hill near the center that has few trees .
the spring that forms the creek begins at the base of it .
it is the only spring on the island , but it puts forth a copious flow .
we will have fresh water , and there is suitable land to clear for crops .
it could be our paradise , bearl .
for the first time in months , bearl breathed easily .
you bear good tidings , geron .
marial smiled at the favorable report .
bearl glanced at her .
your fears have in vain , marial .
we have found a home .
the island is not huge , bearl .
it will support us only a short time .
but it will give us time to explore the mainland , time to find a better place .
yes , it will buy us a few years .
that may be enough .
what shall we call this island ?
eris , said marial .
it means first hope .
that sounds like a wonderful name , said bearl .
eris it is .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents a narrow escape from the deck of the ship , bearl watched as the crew loaded the last of the supplies on the small boat that danced in the waves below him .
we have made progress , bearl , '' said geron .
we are fortunate that jurud the carpenter survived the voyage , '' bearl said .
his skills have been irreplaceable . ''
yes , they have .
he has been busy teaching them to others .
we have finished the great house and we have a roof over our heads .
today they will finish the store house and we will be able to store the grain seed until it is time to plant . ''
we have to plant the wheat soon if we are to have bread next year . ''
we have cleared on field and steady work by the women has gotten the soil prepared . ''
it would be easier if we had horses or oxen to help .
without them we must do everything by hand . ''
geron turned to face the sea .
the harbor was small and faced the mainland , which was just visible in the distance .
we were lucky that no one found out about the store of grain seed during those last days at sea . ''
if they had , the people may have risen in insurrection , '' bearl said .
hungry people would do almost anything for food , including eating the seed we need to sustain ourselves . ''
there were times when i considered breaking those casks open myself . ''
if the voyage had gone on much longer i would have broken them open .
there is no point having seed to plant if the people die before we get somewhere to plant it . ''
geron walked towards the stern of the ship , shading his eyes from the glare of the sun on the water .
bearl , '' he said .
bring the glass . ''
bearl joined him at the rail and handed him the small telescope .
geron focused the glass and studied the sea .
there is a ship traveling south , '' he said as he handed the telescope to bearl .
bearl took the glass and pointed it in the direction geron indicated .
yes , there is a ship .
that is the first ship that we have seen . ''
should we try to follow it ? ''
by the time we get a crew together the ship will be gone .
we should never find it . ''
more questions without answers , '' said geron as the ship slid out of sight .
savory meat roasting over the bonfire lent its fragrance to the scene and festive music filled the air .
bearl watched the people dance and eat as they celebrated the first birth in their new home .
the new father and mother danced as they held the newborn infant between them at their place of honor in the center of the floor .
marial sat down beside bearl , her dark hair , bedecked with late summer flowers , flowing over her shoulders .
her eyes followed the newlyweds and her foot tapped to the beat of the music .
with a sidewise glance at bearl , she said , you and i share a similar problem , my brother . ''
the smile disappeared from bearl 's face .
it is a problem , marial , a problem which could not have been foreseen . ''
geron feels it too . ''
bearls eyes took in the dance floor as he said , it is an unhappy misfortune that there are no single young women among our colony .
all the young people have married . ''
there were two young women , but both died during the voyage . ''
there are many unmarried men , sister . ''
true , bearl .
but there are none that i fancy . ''
the colony needs children , marial .
you may have to marry a man who you do not fancy . ''
marial tossed her head .
i will not marry anyone that i do not love , bearl . ''
bearl sighed .
we have only fifty two women of child bearing age , marial .
we have over seventy men .
you are the only marriageable young woman . ''
marial 's eyes flashed at bearl .
would you command me to marry , bearl ? ''
bearl shook his head .
no .
you know i would not do that , but many will talk .
they will say that you hold yourself above them . ''
time may change my heart , brother . ''
in the meantime , we should enjoy the party , my sister .
shall we dance ? ''
marial 's flashed a smile .
we shall , brother . ''
the crowd hurrahed as the king and his sister took the floor and the merriment went far into the night .
the fall sown wheat glistened in the afternoon sun .
four more babies joined the colony that spring as the colony recovered from the snows of winter .
bearl and geron walked along the edge of the field , inspecting the crop .
they looked over the two additional fields cleared during the winter .
the land awaited the seed that would feed the growing colony .
i have been thinking , bearl .
there is not enough game to feed up here on this island .
we have killed and eaten most of it .
and fishing has been unsatisfactory . ''
we do need a way of procuring more meat , geron .
this island just is not big enough to satisfy our needs .
i propose we plant a hunting colony on the mainland at that place we first landed . ''
bearl thought about this for a moment .
that seems a good thing to do , geron . ''
there was a town there at one time .
we could salvage many useful things from it .
we could hunt , fish , gather nuts and berries from the forest and cut firewood .
maybe we could even salvage some of those boats which we saw sunk in the river . ''
we would have to keep this colony small , geron .
we can not afford to send many men .
it would also have to remain hidden as much as possible .
there is a reason that the people of this place have abandoned their town . ''
you think that creature we saw comes into this land ? ''
i can think of no other reason .
if we had a small post on the mainland , they could hunt and explore .
maybe we could find a suitable place for us to live . ''
i agree .
this island affords us protection , but it is too small to sustain us .
we have already exhausted the game and cut many of the trees . ''
many of the families have built cabins and this takes many trees . ''
the extra firewood needed to sustain these homes will be more than we can cut here .
all the more reason to plant a post to gather the things we need on the mainland while our people regain their strength . ''
by this time , the brothers had returned to the great house where they still made their home .
how long before we can return to our home , bearl ? ''
bearl looked over the small village that was taking shape .
this is our home now , geron .
i do not wish to take these people on another dangerous voyage across the sea on a battered ship that needs repairs that we can not make now .
we do not have enough fighting men to retake the lion kingdom , even if the plaque has decimated derthons forces .
we have only a little over fifty fighting men .
we will have to stay here many years to rebuild our strength .
we will need more room for our people to grow . ''
there is more room on the mainland , '' said geron .
that is precisely why i want you to go ahead with your plan .
we are safe here .
i do not want to leave here until we know more about that land . ''
i will begin , brother .
how many men do you want me to take ? ''
bearl thought for a minute .
we will start small .
you should plan to take no more than ten men .
the men will all serve over there , as we will rotate them every few weeks and every man will take his turn .
work it out , and then come to me with your plan . ''
geron nodded .
i will do so , bearl .
i expect to take some men there within a week . ''
bearl nodded back in agreement and went inside the great house .
always there are eyes in the forest .
eyes he could sense , but never see .
geron did not like this feeling of eyes constantly prying at him .
the hunting post was high in the mountains overlooking the deserted village .
once a month half of the men went to the post to dry meats , and gather nuts .
they also cut firewood and gathered whatever else the men managed to have ready to ship to the island .
the spent the rest of their time hunting , processing the game and cutting firewood .
there was little time for the exploration that geron longed to do .
geron convinced bearl to increase the number of men to twenty .
he had hopes that the increased number would allow him to press into the mountains .
the land they occupied was still a mystery .
they had no idea how big it was .
they had fleeting glances of shadows of people who always melted away when his men tried to approach .
this monster , if indeed that was the source of the fear , was fearsome indeed .
so far , the only sight he had of this creature was that day many months ago in that ruined land .
the storm he raised almost destroyed the ship .
if that creature ever came here , it would be terrible , indeed .
so far , geron had not seen the creature .
from time to time , there were rumblings from further up in the mountains .
if those sounds were those of thunderstorms or the passing of something more fearsome , there was no way to know .
he only knew that when these rumblings occurred , even the beasts and birds of the forest became scarce .
it was as if the terror afflicted even them and sought to seek shelter from his depredations .
geron pricked his ears up .
he could hear the faint cracking and thrashing of something in the distance as something moved through the trees .
he stood and gave a sharp whistle .
an answering whistle sounded in the forest nearby .
more whistles followed in answer to his .
geron counted eighteen .
two men were missing , perhaps too far away for him to hear .
he gave another whistle , the signal for the men to hide .
geron knelt in some brush , concealing himself as best he could .
it was not a moment too soon .
a huge red creature strode from the forest into the clearing of the abandoned town below geron 's hiding place .
it stood near the river and turned in circle , sniffing the air and scanning the countryside with its single red eye .
it approached geron 's hiding place .
geron pressed himself down closer to the earth .
the creature stopped .
geron could hear the snuffling of the creature 's nose .
geron closed his eyes and was glad that the wind was flowing from the direction of the monster , carrying geron 's scent away from him .
geron opened his eyes .
he could see the huge foot of the creature as it stood near enough for him to reach out and touch it .
geron did not reach out to touch it .
after a moment , the creature moved away and went back into the forest .
as he watched the creature move off , geron understood the fear of the people of this land .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents a journey proposed smoke curled from the chimneys of the cabins that made up the tiny settlement , lending its scent to mix with that of the nearby sea .
the small island seemed almost to float upon the waves .
bearl watched it from the prow of the morningstar as it approached its anchorage in the bay below the town .
i fear this ship does not have too many voyages left in it , bearl , '' said geron , who was leaning against the rail next to him .
it is twenty years old this summer . ''
i ca n't believe that we have been on this island for that long . ''
it is time to return to the lion kingdom , bearl .
we must return while we still have a ship to return in . ''
after dropping anchor , bearl watched as one of the small boats dropped into the water from its moor on the side of the ship .
i fear we still can not return , geron .
our settlement has grown it is true , but we still have less than one hundred fighting men , most of which have never been in battle .
we do not have enough weapons to outfit them , even if we did return . ''
it was the ultimate plan to return , bearl .
most of the people expect it .
by now the barbarians may be rebuilding their strength . ''
yes , that was the ultimate plan , geron , but the storm took four of our ships .
we had almost four hundred well trained soldiers , weaponry and five ships .
now we have one ship and an untested fighting force with few weapons .
we have drilled them it is true .
but drills do not match action .
even if the barbarians are weak , we do not have enough strength to attack and retake our homeland . ''
bearl and geron descended the ladder and took their places in the boat .
they cast off the line and several of the men on board began to row towards the small wharf that extended out into the water .
bearl 's eyes took in the morningstar as it danced in the blue waves .
the ship is not safe for such a long voyage , geron .
some of the timbers are rotting and the hull needs new planking .
we do not have the facilities to make such extensive repairs . ''
the wooden boat reached the dock .
bearl and geron stepped out on the wharf and walked to the road that led to the settlement , visible from the shore .
what do you propose to do , bearl ? ''
as they reached the village , bearl noted the fields that lay at the edge of the town .
we can not stay here longer .
we have used up the land . ''
geron nodded in agreement .
the soil here was thin , rocky and never fertile .
we have cut all the trees and now we are now dependent upon what we haul in with the morningstar .
we shall be marooned here when the ship becomes useless . ''
that ship has almost reached the end of its usefulness .
we can not build another as long as we stay here . ''
geron looked towards the mainland .
that river is too shallow and small for us to use to build a ship .
and we have used up most of the large trees to build our cabins and other things we need . ''
we have to find a safe place on the mainland to settle , geron .
it is the only option we now have . ''
we have not had time to explore as i wished .
the game has thinned out , making us range further into the mountains .
we must also range further up the slopes to get wood for fuel and for building .
i have established three separate hunting camps in the mountains above that valley to vary where we hunt . ''
all of which expends valuable time and energy . ''
geron stooped and picked up a handful of soil from the field .
there is only one or two seasons of crops left in this soil , bearl .
last year the yield was down considerably .
we barely had enough food to last through the winter . ''
our numbers are growing , geron .
this island is becoming too small for us .
we have young men who want land , and there is none available . ''
bearl turned to look at the morningstar , the furled sails gleaming in the morning light .
we must outfit the morningstar for one last voyage , geron . ''
you propose to sail this spring ? ''
as soon as we have the crops planted we will set sail with fifty men . ''
and i suppose you will leave me behind , as usual . ''
bearl and geron turned at the feminine voice that addressed them .
marial .
yes , you will have to stay behind to lead the colony . ''
disappointment clouded marial 's eyes .
why is it that you two always get to have all the fun and i have to stay behind ? ''
bearl smiled and said , fun we will not have , marial .
we will be exploring strange lands with who knows what kind of dangers .
the food will be bad and uncertain .
and we may run into the creature at any time . ''
marial said , that creature used to come prowling every few months on the mainland , but we have not seen him in a couple of years now .
maybe he is dead . ''
geron turned back to face the mainland .
it would be good if he was .
i saw him once up close and did not like what i saw . ''
you were lucky to get away alive , '' said bearl .
we all were .
we were all downwind of him and he did not smell us , though he tried . ''
if he is gone , this may be a good time to go exploring , bearl , '' said marial , though i wish i could go along with you . ''
we need you too much here , marial .
someone must keep things going in my absence and you are the best suited for that duty . ''
what if you do not return ? ''
then you must do the best you can to lead the people through .
we have salvaged two small boats from the town .
you may have to ferry them across to the mainland and find refuge there . ''
how long will you be gone ? ''
bearl again looked towards the mainland .
we do not know how large this land is , or if it is a part of a larger land mass .
if we find nothing after a few weeks or months , we will return .
i would anticipate that by winter we will be back with news . ''
i hope you are right , bearl , said geron .
we started this voyage with nothing but hope , geron .
we have been subsisting for years with only hope to drive us .
it is my hope that we will find the things we need .
mine also , '' said marial .
in all this time we still have not contacted anyone who lives on this land .
maybe it is completely uninhabited . ''
geron shook his head .
there are people there .
i feel their eyes all the time .
they are watching us . ''
the fear is planted deep , then , '' said marial .
geron shuddered at the memory of the creature .
that thing would plant fear into anyone .
even now i have dreams about that hard , cruel eye . ''
it is moving towards the noon meal , '' said bearl .
we had little for breakfast before returning to the island .
i think we should eat and lay our plans . ''
i agree , '' said geron .
the sun now at zenith , watched as the three walked towards their dwelling .
as the day progressed , the three made plans for what bearl came to call the next voyage of discovery .
like the ones of his grandfather , they did n't have any idea of what they would discover .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents an inhospitable land already some of the fields were showing the green tips of the emerging crops .
in others the fall sown wheat was growing , a luxuriant green carpet which promised bread and ale .
from his perch on the bridge , bearl kept his eyes fastened on the now fading island of eris that had been their home these many years .
he turned to watch the ocean in front of him .
on the right , the mountainous mass of the mainland loomed over the azure blue waters .
to the left the sea stretched to the horizon .
the morning sun hung low over waves painted with a shimmering golden radiance by its rays .
the ship sailed south as it followed the coast .
geron walked up the steps from the main deck and joined bearl at the rail .
we are finally on our way , '' he said as his eyes swept the horizon in front of him .
yes we are .
we are departing a bit later than i desired . ''
spring rains kept us from the fields , but we finally have planted the crops . ''
and once again , geron , we are off into the unknown . ''
as they sailed south , clouds gathered on the western horizon and the wind began to pick up .
bearl pointed to the west .
it seems that storms gather in the mountains . ''
geron watched as the captain of the ship gave the orders to prepare the ship for a heavy sea .
we had best get inside , bearl . ''
the first large drops spattered on the wooden deck as the brothers went into the cabin .
bearl turned to look outside .
heavy rain swept over the ship , creating a fog which obscured any view of the land .
the winds blew from the northwest , driving the ship before it .
for hours , the winds blew and the rain fell , tossing the ship on waves that towered high above it .
when at length the storm passed , the landscape to the west had changed .
the mountains were gone , replaced by buff colored sand and rocks that lined the shore .
sand dunes towered behind them .
it seems that the mountains have given way to desert , '' said geron .
yes , it would seem .
the storm drove us many miles south . ''
geron studied the shore as it passed .
this land looks quite inhospitable . ''
bearl glanced back towards the north .
we may well have missed something in the storm .
the shoreline was invisible for many hours . ''
do you want to turn back ? ''
bearl paused as he considered the suggestion .
no , i think we sail on .
i mean to explore as much of this land as we can .
it is probable that all we missed was unbroken mountains . ''
and it is possible too , that we missed something important . ''
neither knew that geron was right .
the air was growing warmer as they progressed south .
bearl watched at the desert gave way , first to grasslands and then to a tree lined shore .
he pricked his ears as the lookout pointed and shouted , i see an opening in the trees , sire .
i can see a harbor .
that is the first good harbor we have come across , said geron .
bring us in closer , said bearl .
he bent forward and put the glass to his eye .
i can see something along the shore .
enter the harbor , we will explore it . ''
the ship sliced through the waters and entered the harbor .
there are the remains of a city here , hidden beneath the vegetation , '' said geron as the ship approached the shore .
the remains of a wharf ran along the shore , overgrown in many places with vines and trees .
geron studied the barely visible buildings .
some of the stones gleamed white beneath their covering of vegetation .
what do you think ?
would this serve as a satisfactory settlement for us ?
this is a possibility , said bearl .
it would be warm here , and the forests should abound with fruits and other foodstuffs .
i think you should lead an exploratory party ashore .
the ship docked on a clear section of the wharf .
geron chose the men who would accompany him .
they armed themselves and gathered on deck .
they extended the gangplank and geron led them ashore .
the fibrous stalks of the vines that guarded the shore yielded reluctantly to the blows of sharp steel swords .
the explorers hacked their way through .
bearl watched as the men disappeared into the tangled mass of vegetation .
bearl paced with impatience on the bridge .
he looked often to the wharf , seeking news of his brother and the party that accompanied him .
as darkness began to fall , he could hear the thrashing of feet and the shouts of men .
the familiar figure of his brother soon emerged from the hole they had hacked in the vegetation .
his boots resounded on the wooden wharf .
two of the men were bearing a third between them , his head drooping on his breast .
they made their way up the gangplank and lay the man down on the deck .
geron knelt beside him and lifted the man 's wrist , feeling for a pulse with his fingers .
he laid the man 's hand across his chest and arose .
he is dead . ''
bearl glanced at his brother .
what happened ? ''
geron raised the man 's legging , revealing two angry red puncture marks on his ankle .
there are many serpents here , '' he said .
one of them bit this man as we were returning .
it did not take long for it to kill him . ''
bearl knelt beside the man .
he studied the face .
we have lost few people since we have taken up habitation here .
this man deserves a hero 's grave . ''
unfortunately we will have to bury him in a strange land far from his family , '' said geron .
a black blanket shrouded the land as the sun dropped below the horizon .
cries of strange beasts emanated from the forest and the hum of biting insects filled their ears .
what did you find , geron ? ''
there is no one living there that we could find , bearl .
this was a great city many years ago .
most of the buildings have fallen or shoved down by a powerful force .
the vines have pulled many others down . ''
would it be a suitable place for us to settle ? ''
geron 's face , visible in the lamp light , shook from side to side .
this is not a good place , bearl . ''
he glanced at the dead man lying on the deck .
there are many serpents like the one that bit him .
there are spiders and other biting and stinging insects .
it would take years to clear away the vines and trees . ''
bearl looked down at the fallen man .
prepare him for burial at sea .
we will sail with the tide and bury him when the sun rises .
his spirit will join with the sun and will always be with us . ''
as the silver stars watched from the ebony , sky the crew mourned their lost companion and hoped that he would be the last .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents kidnapped by raider in the ensuing weeks , their direction shifted .
the shore at first extended westerly , and then took a northerly direction .
the landscape changed from tropical forests to grassy plains and then to sandy beaches and dunes once again .
geron stood beside bearl on the bridge .
i wonder if this desert extends all the way across this island . ''
it must , but we do not know that this is an island , yet , '' said bearl .
it may be part of a large land mass , but i think that it is a large , uninhabited island . ''
i think there are people here , geron . ''
all we have seen is that horrible creature , bearl .
i think that thing has killed all the humans who live here .
we have found cities and towns with no inhabitants .
nor have we seen signs of recent human occupation . ''
your constant complaint is that of someone watching us , geron . ''
geron shrugged .
but i have seen no reason to think that any one watches us , bearl .
perhaps it is just the spirits of the people this creature has killed who watch . ''
bearl 's eyes scanned the deserts before them .
this is a huge land , geron .
there are many places for folk to hide if they wish to do so . ''
we have seen no other harbors or cities for weeks , bearl . ''
we saw that river a few days back , geron .
there were the remains of a town on the peninsula which extended out from the marshy land behind it . ''
there was no one living there , bearl .
the wooden shacks were falling down .
we found only a dead town with no inhabitants . ''
do n't forget that creature , geron .
it lives here . ''
i have not forgotten that thing , bearl .
i saw it remember .
but we have seen or heard no sign of it for months . ''
nonetheless , i feel it is still here , somewhere .
there are people here , too .
i am sure of it .
they are just so fearful that they will show themselves to no one that they do not know . ''
as they watched the shoreline pass a break in the shoreline appeared , flanked by two patches of green .
perhaps we have found another river ? ''
bearl glanced up at the lookout that pointed ashore and shouted , harbor sighted , sire . ''
bearl took out his telescope and studied the inlet .
i can see signs of a city . ''
he folded the telescope and stuck it in his pocket .
he glanced at geron .
prepare to enter the harbor .
i want to investigate . ''
the sun was setting over the desert landscape , painting the sky in hues of orange and yellow .
the morningstar anchored a distance offshore .
another deserted wharf and another city of ghosts , '' said geron as his eyes swept the ruined buildings .
we will anchor here until morning , '' said bearl .
tomorrow morning i think we will sail up that river with the tide . ''
it looks navigable for a distance upstream . ''
it does .
perhaps we can replenish our water from it further upstream . ''
faint fingers of light touching the eastern sky announced the beginning of another day .
bearl and geron stood at the rail watching the full moon as it approached the western horizon .
it lent its silver light to the sandy dunes that were about to swallow it .
the tide was rushing towards the shore , pulling the ship along , with a favorable wind , up the course of the river .
the growing light revealed a land of sand , dunes and rock .
i do n't think we have found our paradise here , bearl , '' said geron .
i think we have found a sandy , barren waste fit only for serpents and sand monsters . ''
i have seen many river lizards , also , '' said bearl .
i have seen those , too .
the further inland we penetrate , the more of them we see it seems . ''
the wind is changing and we have lost the tide , geron .
i think it is time to anchor .
i was considering allowing the crew to bathe in the waters of the river .
but i fear many would become a meal for those huge monsters swimming in the waters . ''
the ship came to a stop and bearl commanded that the ship turned around and the anchor deployed .
as the ship lay at anchor geron said , we have seen little of the land , as the banks of the river rise high above the river in most places .
i would like to take a party ashore to explore the land about the river . ''
i see no reason not to do a bit of exploring , '' said bearl .
the land is open for miles around .
the only vegetation appears to be the shrubs and trees that line the river .
i think that all you will see is sand and rocks . ''
i would like to go look anyway . ''
assemble a group , geron .
be careful .
this land , i fear , has many surprises . ''
i will , bearl . ''
from the sandy heights above the river , two men watched the ship at rest in the river below them .
what do you think , nath ? ''
nath shook his head .
i do not know , curn .
i have not seen a ship in many years .
master will want to know about this . ''
the other man pointed .
look , some of the men on board are disembarking . ''
it looks like about ten men . ''
he glanced at his partner .
do you think we should try to capture them ? ''
they are armed , '' curn said .
not only that , they look like they know how to use those swords . ''
some have bows , also . ''
i think we watch them .
we have them outnumbered .
if we get a chance , we should take them .
meanwhile , have the men conceal themselves in this thicket and behind the rocks .
we can not allow them to see us . ''
they watched as the party made its way up the bank .
the leader stopped at the top and scanned the land around him .
he spoke to his men before proceeding .
that is a strange language , '' said curn .
it is no language of island world . ''
master will want some of these men .
he will want to question them , to find out where they come from . ''
perhaps they come from that island .
we have watched it and seen smoke at different times .
we thought we saw a ship anchored there once . ''
there has been activity in the mountains around that deserted town .
perhaps these people are .
it is lucky that we have no prisoners , yet .
we must follow these men into the desert .
at some point , they will return .
it is then that we will attack them . ''
what about their weapons ? ''
we must attack them quickly .
use the nets we use to capture gwaum 's food . ''
it will be difficult to capture armed , watchful men . ''
we must try , '' nath said .
as geron 's party walked into the desert , they were unaware of the shadowy party which followed , just out of eye range behind them .
geron held up his hand , signaling a stop .
his eyes scanned the rocky heights above him .
we have followed this chasm for miles , '' he said .
it seems to lead nowhere . ''
the man who walked up beside him took note of the sun .
we should turn back , geron .
the sun is low in the west .
it will be dark when we get back . ''
you are right .
we should return . ''
the men turned and began trekking back in the direction that they came .
geron , believing that there was no danger , had failed to send men ahead as a scouting party .
so when the nets descended over them , they netted his entire company .
the metal hooks in the nets caught at their skin and rocks began raining down on them from above .
geron managed to withdraw his sword and slice at the netting .
a tear appeared , through which a rock plunged , striking him on the head .
his world faded into darkness .
worry ate at bearl as his eyes scanned the darkening desert .
hours had passed since his brother 's party slipped over the banks of the river and disappeared into the desert .
night was falling and there was still no sign of his return .
captain kalf shern stood by his side watching the gathering darkness .
what shall we do , sire ? ''
bearl glanced upwards .
we can do nothing until morning .
even with the full moon , we can not track them . ''
maybe they will return during the night . ''
if they do not , i fear disaster has struck . ''
the night passed and bearl did not stray from the bridge , his eyes fastened on the riverbank .
he refused all food and drink as he waited .
when morning arrived , bearl said to captain shern , ready up a rescue squad .
we must search for geron and our companions . ''
how many should we take , sire ? ''
bearl thought for a moment .
the crew had only been fifty men to begin with .
geron 's party included ten of their best fighters .
ready up fifteen men .
i will head this expedition . ''
captain sherns eyebrows rose .
i beg permission to speak freely , sire . ''
bearl nodded .
i do not think you should accompany us , sire .
you are the king and as such are indispensable to the success of our voyage and to the people . ''
bearl 's eyes focused on the captain .
i understand your concern , captain .
geron is my brother .
if he is in trouble i must do what i can to rescue him . ''
beg your pardon , sire , but i disagree .
your greater responsibility is to your people .
let me search for your brother . ''
no disrespect captain , but if i allow you to go alone and you fail , i will always suspect that i could have done more .
i will not allow that suspicion to come between us .
i will head the expedition . ''
captain shern bowed .
i will ready the men , sire and let you know when we are ready . ''
bearl watched as the captain left the bridge , then turned to search the desert with his eyes .
geron was still out there .
he must do what he could to find him .
captain shern knelt and studied the tracks in the sand .
he glanced at bearl .
someone was following them , sire .
there were men waiting in the rocks . ''
how many ? ''
the captain shook his head .
impossible to say , sire .
the tracks of our men have mixed with those of the men following them .
geron 's party was in single file , but these men were not .
there were at least twenty , to judge by the tracks . ''
so they outnumbered geron . ''
kalf nodded .
there were at least twice as many pursuers .
maybe more . ''
their path led them through a barren land of rocks and sand .
after a couple of hours , the rocky hills broke the flat desert landscape .
a break in the hills before them provided the only path between the steep hills .
kalf knelt and examined the desert sand .
it appears that geron led his party into the chasm .
the others split and climbed into the rocks above it . ''
so geron led his men into an ambush . ''
it is a possibility , sire .
we can not know unless we follow him . ''
bearl studied the chasm .
i do not wish to lead us into an ambush . ''
captain kalf said , i will lead a small party into the chasm .
we can send another party along the heights above it .
you can stay here with the remainder of the men , ready to come to the aid if these men attack us . ''
bearl nodded .
that sounds like a good plan , captain .
see to it . ''
after the two groups of soldiers departed , bearl found himself waiting again .
another hour passed and the sun was standing almost at zenith .
bearl glanced to the west .
a forbidding bank of clouds was gathering on the horizon .
he could feel the wind beginning to increase , driving fine particles of sand against his face .
a cry from the mouth of the chasm brought his eyes back to it .
captain shern was beckoning him .
bearl walked over to the captain , who said , we have found evidence of a struggle about a mile into the chasm .
there are the bodies of five of our men there .
geron was not among them . ''
how much further does the chasm extend ? ''
we did not reach the end of it .
but the tracks continue along in the other direction . ''
then we should follow . ''
i have sent a few men ahead , sire .
the party on the rocks above is continuing to explore also .
they have found no one up there so far . ''
we will break into three groups , '' said bearl .
if they attack any one of us , the others will be free to help .
we will not fall into the same trap geron did .
we will follow you further into the chasm .
if geron and the rest of the men are still alive , we have to rescue them . ''
as bearl 's group entered the chasm , the wind began to blow harder .
he looked to the west to see a vast wall of dust approaching them .
into the chasm , '' he shouted to his men .
they found shelter just as the cloud of dust enveloped them .
the deep walls of the chasm protected them from the worst of the storm .
but their lungs still choked from the dry , swirling cloud that clung to them .
bearl sat on the ground and fretted .
the storm would obliterate any tracks left by geron and his captors .
how would he find his brother ?
an eternity seemed to pass before the storm ended .
bearl stood and brushed the dust from his clothing and hair .
he glanced at captain shern .
should we continue the search , sire ? ''
bearl glanced at the sky above .
the storm had gone on for hours , wasting them precious time .
the sun was lowering in the western sky .
they were not equipped for a camping expedition in the desert .
they had little water and no food with them .
gather what water we can from the men and send them back to the ship .
you and i will join your group ahead and continue along the chasm .
it has to end somewhere .
we will find the end and see where the tracks then lead . ''
there will be no tracks , sire .
the dust storm will have wiped them away . ''
until i see with my own eyes , i will not believe that .
i can not leave my brother here , in this desert waste . ''
kalf gathered the water skins and sent the men back .
he , bearl and a few men continued along .
in an hour , they found the men he had left at the site of the struggle .
leave a couple of men to bury them while we continue on , '' bearl said to kalf .
they can join up with us at the end of the chasm . ''
the dreary trek continued with no end in sight of to the chasm .
it wound around through the hills , partly blocked in many places by large boulders that had fallen .
the party picked its way along slowly .
the sun was casting long shadows across the desert floor when they finally emerged from the chasm .
boundless sand stretched to the west ahead of them .
it was sand , smoothed by the wind , obliterating the tracks .
we can not tell what direction they took them , sire , '' said kalf .
we will have to abandon the search . ''
bearl held his hand over his eyes to shade them from the setting sun .
he scanned the sands in every direction .
whither had they gone ?
bearl did not know .
he despaired that he might never know .
bearl gave the command for the ship to raise anchor and begin the trip back to the sea .
it had been a fateful trip .
they had lost ten good men , his brother among them .
what would he tell marial ?
as the ship slipped down the river , carried along by a compliant current , his eyes scanned the desert .
his heart ached for his brother .
what fate had befallen him ?
would he ever see him again ?
bearl found these questions might never have answers .
or that the answers would be such that he would not want to know .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents stormy end the soft fur robe helped keep the chill air at bay as bearl stood on the bridge .
a cold wind blew from ashore , bearing with it the smell of snow in the air .
the eyepiece of the brass telescope felt cold against his skin as he peered at the shore .
another broken , abandoned city , captain , '' he said as he swept the landscape with the glass .
do you want to send a party ashore , sire ? ''
bearl shook his head .
i have no interest in further adventures ashore , captain shern .
there is nothing for us here in this cold land . ''
what heading do you wish us to take , sire ? ''
bearl folded the telescope and put it in his pocket .
he glanced upwards at the slate gray sky .
we will continue north for a couple of days .
it is getting late in the season and i wish to get back to eris before winter sets in .
if the land appears to continue going north , we will turn back and return the way we came . ''
and if it does n't ? ''
bearl shrugged .
it depends upon what we find . ''
bearl left the bridge and went into his quarters .
he put another piece of wood in the small stove that attempted to keep his quarters warm .
he poured a cup of hot tea from the pot and looked out the small porthole over his table .
he was beginning to doubt himself .
everything had gone wrong in this foolish quest for a paradise .
instead of paradise , all he found was a fearful land held vassal by a terrible monster .
in twenty years , the only people they found were the ones that abducted his brother .
the island home they took as refuge was nearing the end of its usefulness .
the voyage of discovery , which began with so much hope this spring , was ending in failure .
there was no place on this terrible land for his people to call home .
instead of a paradise , he had found only a land of death and sorrow .
he glanced in the mirror .
he was now thirty seven years old .
he longed for a mate , but there were none among his people .
marial was thirty three .
her beauty had only intensified with the passing years and many of the men sought her hand .
so far , she had refused all suitors .
she still had childbearing years left .
the house of vin needed an heir .
only she could provide one .
memories of geron tugged at his mind .
what his brother 's fate was , he might never know .
he longed now only to get back to marial , though he dreaded the terrible news he was bearing .
he felt the ship shudder , buffeted by wind and waves .
he hoped the morningstar could finish what it started .
the carpenter 's report earlier this morning was not encouraging .
the planks of the ship were weakening .
a bad storm might cause a hull breach .
bearl ordered the small lifeboats inspected and provisioned .
it was a precaution he hoped was unnecessary .
he sat at his small writing desk and dipped the quill pen in the ink .
for many hours , he wrote , recording the events of the past days in his journal .
as he concluded , he looked at the porthole and saw the light was beginning to fail .
a knock sounded at his door .
he looked at the door and asked , who is it ? ''
captain shern , sire . ''
come in , captain . ''
the door opened and captain shern entered .
he took off his hat , held it near his chest , and said , the coastline is beginning to bend westwards , sire . ''
that is good news , captain .
the best i have had in several weeks . ''
i thought you might like it , sire .
we have sailed east now for a couple of hours .
i thought i would wait to tell you until i was sure . ''
thank you , captain . ''
the captain nodded and stepped back out , leaving bearl again to his thoughts .
days of sailing followed , the prow of the ship always pointing east , then southeast .
the weather continued gray , windy and cold .
occasional snow showers coated the decks with a flinty , slippery coating of ice .
at length , bearl noted the coast dipped southeast .
he leaned against the rail .
the clouds were breaking up and the sun made a welcome appearance .
his eye swept to the south .
for a moment , he thought it was a mirage .
then the cry of the lookout confirmed his eyes .
the white rock .
i can see the white rock . ''
he had been right .
this huge land was an island .
they had circumnavigated it .
they were back to their original position when they found this land .
a few more days of good sailing and they would be home .
a warm fire in a cottage with some hot soup loomed before his eyes .
he could almost smell his sister 's savory stew and taste the fruity new wine .
more days passed , and the rocky , mountainous coast swept by , curving ever more southward as they progressed .
finally , they rounded the tip of the peninsula and the familiar twin rocks , which guarded the bay of the monster , came into view .
we are almost home , sire , '' said captain shern .
yes , in a couple of days eris will come into view . ''
we did not find a suitable home , sire .
what will we do ? ''
bearl shrugged .
i do n't know , captain .
i will need to consult with marial and the others in the colony .
we must leave eris after the winter .
but where we shall go , i do not know . ''
he watched the twin rocks fade into the distance and wondered about that huge creature which lived in that land .
then he turned his eyes forward .
in a couple of days they would be home .
what he would do , what he would decide , after he got there he did not know .
thick , gray clouds boiled on the horizon .
bearl could see the island of eris on the horizon .
it would be a race against the storm .
captain shern stood beside the king on the bridge , watching the approaching storm with worry in his eyes .
i do not think the ship will stand another storm , sire . ''
i think you are right , captain .
the carpenter says the hull is weakening daily . ''
the storm will strike us as day falls . ''
i hope the ship does n't fail us . ''
the men glanced at each other , worry painting both men 's eyes .
both men watched in dismay as the storm bore down on them .
in minutes , wind and rain overcame them .
the sea rose before the wind and the morningstar danced and dipped as the waves tossed it about .
the tempo of the storm increased as the winds howled .
bearl could see the hatch open and the carpenter emerge .
he ran , swaying and slipping on the wet deck , to the ladder that led up to the bridge .
the captain opened the door and admitted the man , who looked at bearl and said , the hull has given way , sire .
we can not pump out the water fast enough .
we are going to sink . ''
bearl glanced at the captain .
give the command .
lower the boats and abandon ship . ''
a flurry of activity exploded as the crew leapt into action .
the fury of the storm whipped against them .
the boats swayed and beat against the sides of the ship as they lowered them .
one almost capsized , but righted at the last second .
they threw the rope ladders down .
bearl noted that the ship was beginning to list , the deck careening at a crazy angle .
one crewman , loosing his footing , slipped over the side and was gone .
bearl ran to the rail and helped several crewmen over the side and on the rope ladders .
he looked around and saw no one else .
the last of the crewmen was climbing down to the boat .
the ship was beginning to settle deeper into the water .
he looked over the side .
he would not need the ladder .
he swung over the side and jumped .
once in the boat , bearl turned his eyes to the morningstar .
row , '' he commanded .
the crewmen pulled at the oars and drew the small boat away from the ship , which was threatening to pull it down with it .
with a gurgling sigh , the ship settled nose first , with just the stern of the ship sticking out .
then it was gone , leaving bearl and his crew afloat on the angry , swirling sea .
the other boat was visible off to the side .
bearl pointed to it and shouted to the men , row towards that other boat . ''
the oars strained as the men pulled .
the boat circled and , fighting wind and waves , drew closer .
captain shern raised his arm , a coil of rope in his hand .
he threw the rope , flinging it into the wind .
bearl managed to catch it and tied it to the prow of his boat .
he sighed in relief .
at least the lifeboats would remain together in the storm .
the storm passed as quickly as it appeared .
bearl looked towards eris .
all he could see was an empty horizon .
how far did the wind drive them ?
he glanced at captain shern in the other boat .
they drew the two boats together in the failing light .
bearl pointed in the direction that they had last seen eris .
we must row towards that point . ''
captain shern , his face reflecting his worry in the fading light asked , what if we miss it in the dark ? ''
then we shall have to find it in the morning . ''
as bearl watched the crews of the ships begin their labor of rowing , he was not hopeful .
she spent her days bathed in consternation and her nights wasted by sleepless worry .
marial watched the ocean , searching for any glimpse she might catch of the morningstar .
a tower now stood on the highest point of the island , constructed from stone gathered from the fields that surrounded it .
marial had asked the men of the village to build it for her , and now she occupied it , making it her home .
thrice daily , she climbed the steps outside to the observation tower and scanned the seas for the ship .
it was late in the season and the frosts had already nipped the land .
the crops had been scanty .
they were now stored in the granaries at the foot of the hill .
she looked at the pyre she had also ordered constructed near the tower .
wood was scarce and the people grumbled .
she had been insistent and they built the pyre .
it awaited only a torch applied at its base and it would flare into life .
twice already that day she had climbed the tower and scanned the empty seas .
as evening gathered , she once more ascended the hill .
to the west she could see a storm gathering .
immense black clouds roiled and flashed lightning and thunder rumbled across the sea .
she turned to the east .
nothing .
she was about to descend when she stopped .
she would take one more look , and then retire for the evening .
as her eyes searched the eastern horizon , she could see a small dark speck .
it grew closer .
she could make it out .
it was the morningstar .
she turned and watched the storm approach .
it would strike the ship before it could gain the small harbor .
she felt the first cold drops of water on her neck .
she turned and gazed once more at the ship .
a blast of cold air almost swept her from her feet .
she retreated down the steps and went into her quarters .
she cowered in the dark as the wind blew and rain poured .
the flash of lightning , followed close by the crack of thunder announced that she was now at the center of the storm .
the roar of the rain driving against the roof of her abode drowned out the sound of the beating of her terrified heart in her ears .
she closed her eyes .
there was no comfort in that .
the image of the morningstar , helpless against the onslaught of the storm , danced in the horrified depths of her mind .
she imagined it foundering and plunging into the depths of the sea carrying her brothers to their deaths in a cold , watery grave .
the storm passed as quickly as it came .
marial stepped from her dwelling and ran up the slippery stone steps .
her eyes scanned the eastern horizon .
the ship was gone .
cries from the village below her rang out in the gathering darkness .
she looked down into the village .
the wind destroyed the granaries and the valuable grain strewn over the stony ground .
she descended the steps and ran to the granaries .
she helped try to rescue what she could of the grain as the rainwater carried it down to the stream and away .
they worked feverishly in the failing light .
by torchlight , the people plucked the grain from the ground and out of the rushing waters .
at length , marial said , we have gotten all we will get . ''
she looked at the small piles of wet grain in the dim light of the torches .
they were lucky to have saved less than a quarter of the grain .
the waters swept the rest away .
she sat on a stone from the ruined wall of the granary .
the hard work of the summer was lost .
half their food stores were gone , swept away by the storm .
her mind flashed .
the morningstar .
she ran back up the hill and ascended the tower .
the blackness of the surrounding seas overwhelmed her .
if the ship were near , she would see a light of some kind from its decks .
there was nothing .
despair shook her to the core of her soul .
what if they were lost ?
she pulled herself from her fear .
the pyre .
she cried out as she ran back down the hill , the pyre , we must light the pyre . ''
one man looked at her , questions in his eyes .
i saw the morningstar before the storm hit .
now it is gone , driven off by the storm .
they may be searching in the dark for the island .
we must light the pyre . ''
with a shout , the man , followed by others , ran up the hill .
they applied the flames of the torches to the base of the pyre .
for a moment , the pyre flickered .
the pitch covered pieces at the base caught fire .
the flames arose through the pyre .
soon they were dancing , casting long plumes of flickering , snapping sparks into the dark air .
marial watched the flames lick the sky .
they drew more faggots from the storage bin in the tower and tossed them on .
she watched long into the night , hearing only the crackle of the fire and the roar of the relentless sea .
fear nibbled at her innards .
would she ever see her brothers again ?
bearl strained against the oars , pulling hard , fighting against the rigors of wind and sea .
they could not even be sure that they were pulling in the right direction , so confused were they by the storm .
a blanket of clouds , obscuring the guide star from their eyes , covered the stars .
the man he spelled indicated he was ready to take the oars again .
bearl slid away from the seat , holding the oars until the man repositioned himself .
then bearl took his place at the rear of the boat to watch and rest to spell another man .
his eyes scanned the horizon .
blackness surrounded them .
despair bit at him .
where were they ?
how far from eris ?
were they even going in the right direction ?
it was then he could see a glow off to the right of him .
he could see a bright light dancing on the horizon .
he called out , i see a signal fire .
it is off to the left . ''
captain shern , whose boat was close by , said , i see it .
do you think it is eris ? ''
it must be , '' said bearl .
marial must have seen us .
she is signaling us .
turn the boat and head towards that glow . ''
i hope you are right . ''
bearl exhorted the men to row harder , taking the oars himself from the nearest man to him .
he could hear the voice of captain shern as it rose above the sea , we are getting closer , bearl .
it is eris .
i am sure of it . ''
hands bled from the oars ' friction , but the men did not stop their efforts .
the night passed and they grew closer .
by dawn , they could see the buildings of the village as they drew near the shore .
bearl , now standing at the stern of the boat , could see marial .
she was waving her hands and shouting in joy , at the fore of the group of villagers that awaited their landing in the morning light .
first one boat , then the other , hit the shore .
there was laughing and embracing and kissing as wives and sweethearts reunited with their men .
bearl and marial embraced , and marial 's laughter lit up the morning .
at length she let go of bearl and scanned the crowded beach .
where is geron ? ''
bearl laid his hands on her shoulders and peered into her eyes .
geron was lost , marial . ''
lost ?
is he dead ? '
i do n't know , marial . ''
bearl recounted the incident that led to geron 's disappearance .
she shook her head at the close of the tale .
he is not dead , bearl . ''
how do you know , marial ? ''
her eyes met his .
if he were dead , i would know it .
his spirit would have brushed mine . ''
i hope you are right , marial .
but if he is still alive , we may never see him again .
that evil land has swallowed him . ''
together they walked back to the village .
marial 's thoughts were dark .
there were more tales to tell .
they were hard , evil tales for hard , evil times .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents discovered banks of white clouds fled before the winds in the blue late autumn skies .
bearl kicked at the rocky , washed out soil with his booted foot .
it appears that the storm did more than destroy half our food and sink our ship . ''
marial stooped and picked up a rock and inspected it with critical eyes .
we will not grow much grain or vegetables in this . ''
the two surveyed what had been their fields .
what topsoil there was has washed away , marial .
we can not plant another crop in this rocky soil . ''
what shall we do , bearl ? ''
bearl began walking back towards marial 's home and marial strode beside him .
we shall have to move to the mainland , marial .
we can not stay here for another season . ''
winter is coming on , bearl .
the ship is gone .
we have only your two boats and the two that you left us . ''
each boat will hold about thirty people and some supplies , including a twelve man crew to row and for relief .
we will have to move to the mainland in stages . ''
that old village is not safe , bearl .
geron saw gwaum there .
our hunters have found signs of parties like the one that took geron . ''
geron had three hunting camps high in the mountains .
they are well hidden and can serve as sanctuaries for us . ''
marial frowned .
that means we will have to split the colony .
we will become like the remnants of people left in that world , small hunted groups afraid to see the next day . ''
i see no other alternative , marial .
we still have time to start before winter sets in .
i think the first group will go tomorrow . ''
will you accompany it ? ''
yes , marial .
i must go with the first group .
after we have killed some game , i will send the boats back one at a time .
you must choose the weather well when you send them back .
we will place only small portions of our seed and grain on each boat and the shipments spread out over several weeks .
if misfortune strikes one of the boats , we will not loose everything . ''
i do n't like it bearl .
the voyage by boat to the mainland takes a whole day in these small boats and is fraught with danger . ''
i do n't like it either marial , but i do n't see any other solution . ''
nor do i , bearl .
we are in a tight situation . ''
the two ascended to the tower and looked towards the mainland .
autumn painted the trees with her pastel colors , reflected in the blue sea .
clouds danced by the mountaintops , which pierced the blue sky with pinnacles of green , orange , yellow and gray .
it is a beautiful land , bearl . ''
it is beautiful and deadly , marial .
it might have been better if we had never left our homeland . ''
marial turned towards bearl and took his hands with hers .
you know that is not true , bearl .
our homeland is now in the hands of the barbarians .
you and geron would be dead , your skulls decorating a barbarian pike .
if still alive , that awful barbarian king would have forced me to marry him and have his babies .
this is better than that , bearl .
at least you and geron are alive and our people are free . ''
we do not know that geron is alive . ''
i do not think he is dead , bearl .
he is alive .
if he is alive there is hope . ''
bearl smiled the first smile he smiled in months .
you are always the hopeful one , marial .
listening to you , i get the feeling that all this will still turn out good . ''
it will , bearl .
we just can not lose hope . ''
you saved my life , marial .
you saved the lives of all those men who were with me .
we were going the wrong direction .
we would have missed the island and perished at sea . ''
it was n't just me , bearl .
the men of the village cut the wood and piled it .
they pressed the oil we used to ignite the flames .
many people grumbled at what they saw as a waste of resources .
but i knew you would return and may need the beacon . ''
bearl smiled again .
we did need it .
we will maintain that pyre as long as any people remain here .
your home will be known as marial 's tower and will always be a place of hope for our people . ''
we have hope , bearl .
you have led us away from certain death to a place in which we can live .
as long as we live , there is hope . ''
bearl turned again to gaze at the mainland .
he did see hope there , in those towering , terrible mountains .
hope and disaster both awaited them .
it just depended on how things played out .
a wintry wind cut across the waves raising whitecaps on the waters .
bearl stood on the shore , waiting and watching .
it was growing dark .
he eyed the wood piled by the sea .
if she did n't come soon , he would have to light the beacon .
he did not want to light the beacon .
other eyes watched in this land .
a black dot appeared .
it was the last boat bearing his sister .
the boat was heading right for him .
gladness rose in him , as it had been weeks since he saw her .
as darkness fell , the dot grew bigger as the little boat wended its way through the waves .
it was close enough for him to see her face and the smile as she saw him standing there , waiting .
the wave came out of nowhere .
it smacked the small boat amidships and it disappeared under the cold , foamy water .
bearl watched , horror engulfing his soul .
he saw people emerge from the frigid water .
many began swimming towards the shore , just yards away .
marial could not swim .
bearl ran to the edge of the sea , feeling its cold water lapping at his boots .
there , her head surfaced .
she was clawing at the air , fighting for her life .
no one else was near her , no one else saw her .
bearl plunged into the icy water and felt his breath almost pulled from his body .
in a few strokes he closed in on the spot he had seen her , but she had disappeared beneath the waves .
bearl took a breath and dove under the water .
in the inky water he could see nothing .
then he saw a brief vision of her dark hair , floating free in the water .
he reached for it and pulled .
it was she .
he gripped the hair and began swimming for the shore .
as he felt the ground under his feet , he paused and reached for her with his other hand .
he circled her now limp body with his arm and pulled her towards the shore , emerging wet and shivering into the cold , biting wind .
he lay her down .
her face was white and eyes closed .
he knelt over her , pressing his lips close to her ears .
marial . ''
he placed his hands on her chest and pressed .
water gushed from her mouth .
he pressed again .
more water , but she did not respond .
marial , come back to me .
you ca n't leave me , '' he said as he pushed again .
this time marial coughed .
more water dribbled from her mouth and her eyes opened .
she was shivering with the cold .
he arose and picked her up .
he carried her to the hunting camp high in the mountains .
the women took her , undressed her and wrapped her in a blanket as bearl changed into dry clothing .
the other survivors from the boat gathered around the fire in the cabin , eating hot stew and drinking hot tea .
this pleased bearl .
no one had drowned , though the last of the grain and other supplies were lost .
he glanced at his sister .
she was the most valuable thing in the world left to him and she was still safe .
the cold wind had brought snow with it and it was piling up in the mountains around them now .
bearl was as satisfied as he could be .
all of the people were now safe on the mainland .
they had started to clear some level spots in the valleys .
the hunting parties had been successful and the remaining grain and seed safely secured .
they would be secure here until spring .
his thoughts moved to the other two camps , also high in the mountains .
he had just come from the east camp yesterday .
they were in good shape also .
captain shern was the leader of that camp .
he had another two cabins built and was planning a third .
bearl 's men had built two cabins , also , between hunting and clearing fields .
tomorrow , if the snows were n't too deep , he would visit the north camp .
he had n't been there in a few days , and wanted to check in on them before winter prevented travel of any kind .
a beating upon the door interrupted his reverie .
bearl glanced around the crowd gathered around the fire .
he signaled two of the men , who got up and moved to each side of the door .
bearl , gripping his sword , walked to the door and opened it .
he glanced a moment at the figure standing in the door .
their secret haven was no longer secret .
back to promise of the white rock table of contents back to table of contents map of island world a. e. mableson tale of the white rock book 4 the covenant gwaum foiled raiders turson and sali the peril of geron geron plots escape return abduction of marial contact ariis vision arii goes into danger the storm begins triumphant the covenant gwaums fortress the monster sleeps gwaum foiled his guards lay dead , scattered about the prison and the building used as their headquarters .
the prisoners had escaped .
gwaum turned towards the city that in his rage , he had destroyed .
if there were humans still hiding there , they would be dead now .
the city was useless as a hiding place .
his rage still burning , he strode along the road towards the mountains that towered in the distance .
he would have to start over .
it did not take him long to reach his road through the mountains .
he paused again to study the white rock .
still , he had no time to conquer its defiance .
he followed his road to its terminus , in the northern reaches of what had been the kingdom of torne .
as he looked south , along the river valley which formed this lands heartland , he hesitated .
he had hunted this land heavily , depleting the population .
the remaining humans were hiding from him and were difficult to find .
he would spend most of his time here in this world , he detested hunting for food , instead of in his beautiful land .
he turned his eyes west , towards that mountain which lay at the center of island world .
that way , he must take that path .
there were roads there that led to all corners of island world .
some of these lands he had not hunted recently .
the humans there would be becoming careless .
as he strode along , his heavy footsteps knocking loose boulders from their roosts , his mind was active .
a plan began to form .
by now , the object of his quest was before him , the mountain of seven rivers , the gateway to island world .
his feet began ascending the mountain .
he soon stood upon its peak .
many lands of many humans lay open to his gaze .
seven rivers sprang from the roots of this mountain , seven rivers flowing through seven lands .
north lay the land of ice .
it had been many years since he had taken that path .
that land he devastated long ago , destroying the main city and the boats that lined the piers .
the population would have recovered in that time .
it was late spring , and the sun would be warming those frigid lands .
the people there would be coming out from their winter hiding places in the mountains .
they would need to grow food , hunt and fish .
they would be vulnerable .
his hunger bit at his innards .
he must feed soon .
his footsteps soon brought him to a small clearing .
a cottage stood at the rear of the clearing and a man was hoeing weeds in a small plot in front of it .
gwaum 's hunger rose .
here was food .
he hesitated for a moment .
there were other humans here , crouching in the brush and trees at the edge of the clearing .
he searched the minds of these humans and divined their intentions .
anticipation rose through his body .
he had found his first slaves .
nath jaro peered through the bushes as he watched the cottage .
he raised his hand in signal to his brother curn who waited on the other side of the clearing .
five more men crouched , waiting for his signal to rush the occupants .
the man would die first , leaving his wife and two daughters vulnerable .
nath knew there would be little in the way of treasure in such a modest cottage .
the three women and the food the cottage held were their targets .
for several days , the small group of vagabonds had watched the cottage .
there were few visitors .
only the one foolish man who dared to dwell in a solitary cottage in this dangerous land .
most of the inhabitants banded together in groups .
these groups were small enough to evade gwaum , but large enough to protect themselves from the bands of brigands .
these villains roamed the countryside , raping and pillaging for food and treasure .
nath , the leader of one of these bands , waited until the man turned his back and then he raised his hand to signal .
he paused as he sensed something behind him .
he turned to see gwaum towering above him .
nath 's feet wanted to flee but something else held him in place .
gwaum stepped forward , his eye boring into nath 's eyes .
nath felt another presence in his head .
he tried to resist but could not .
terror raced through him like a lightning bolt .
he dropped to his knees and then to all fours .
he felt himself bowing to gwaum .
words formed in his head .
you are now my servant .
i am your master .
you and your men will serve me or die . ''
nath rolled on the ground and groveled , saliva drooling from the corners of his mouth .
the words continued .
you may have the food and whatever treasures are in the house .
you may use the women any way that you wish .
you will not kill them , or the man in the field . ''
nath felt the grip on his mind loosen .
he looked up .
thank you , master , for allowing me to live , '' he said .
i will do as you wish .
what of my brother and the others ? ''
they belong to me now , also .
now , complete your raid , but do not kill any of the people .
i have my own needs and they will satisfy them . ''
nath felt repulsed by gwaum .
it was true that they would have killed all the cottage 's inhabitants eventually .
they would have kept the women alive for a while , to serve their own carnal pleasures .
nath knew that gwaum fed on humans and even to a vile man like himself that seemed wrong .
he looked again at gwaum .
he found that now he was not his own master .
gwaum controlled him .
nath returned to his position .
the man had moved closer to him and still had his back to them .
he raised his hand and whistled .
the group of men rushed from the bushes .
three went into the house .
nath tackled the man , driving his head into the ground .
curn ran up and held his dagger high , ready to bring it down on the man 's throat .
stop , '' said nath .
do not kill him . ''
curn stopped and looked at nath .
our plans have changed .
do not kill him .
tie his hands and feet . ''
curn cut the man 's shirt off and used it to tie him up .
he looked up and glanced towards the house .
the screams of the women filled the morning air as the men brought them outside .
the bound their hands and pushed them to the ground .
nath ran to the men and cried , stop .
things have changed . ''
it was at that moment gwaum stepped into the clearing .
then curn retreated from the man he held a prisoner .
nath shouted to his men , do n't run .
he will not harm us .
we are now his servants . ''
you might be , '' said one of his men .
i will not serve such as him . ''
the man started to run but gwaum caught up with him .
he grabbed the man , picked him up and dropped him into his mouth .
you said that my men would not be harmed , '' said nath .
let that man serve as an example , '' said gwaum obey me and you will be safe .
defy me and you will die . ''
curn glanced at his brother .
what is happening here ? ''
gwaum is now our master .
we are to do his bidding . ''
i will not do as that thing says . ''
gwaum approached curn .
his eye drilled into curn 's eyes .
the man 's mouth flew open and his eyes glazed .
he dropped face down on the ground and writhed , drool foaming from his lips .
gwaum finished with him and moved on to the next man , then the next and the next .
the last two of nath 's group glanced at each other and then at their drooling , writhing compatriots who groveled on the ground .
they turned and started to run .
gwaum caught them easily , eating them one at a time .
the bound women were screaming and trying to wrestle free from their bonds .
the man managed to break the band of fabric that bound his hands and started trying to loosen his feet .
gwaum walked to him , picked him up by the ankles , held him high over his mouth and dropped him in .
he looked at nath .
i have not fed for many days .
my hunger is now sated .
you men will hunt for me now .
you will find the hidden settlements and raid them .
the women , treasure and food that you want to keep you may keep . ''
nath raised his voice in protest .
we are not strong enough to raid the settlements .
most have many men . ''
then you will capture more men and they will serve me .
when your numbers are sufficient , you will attack the larger settlements .
the men and women you do not want are mine . ''
the possibilities of their new situation dawned upon both nath and curn .
their eyes met , and then both looked at gwaum .
you want us to form an army for you ? ''
gwaum smiled .
you will hunt for me and accumulate all the things men want .
you will supply me with food .
the people fear me and hide from me .
you know the people 's ways and can find them for me .
you will hunt all over island world , bringing food back to my land . ''
we will be warrior kings . ''
kings you will not be .
you will be subject to me , but you will have your realm . ''
where will this realm be ? ''
i have the beginnings of a city which you will complete .
i have need of your skills as hunters and raiders .
you have need of my help .
together we can rule island world . ''
nath 's eyes sought his brother 's , and then focused on gwaum .
we are hunters , not builders .
we can not build a city . ''
you will not want for slaves to do the work .
you will have slaves and i will have food . ''
where is this city ? ''
it is in the old land of napoli , where i have my abode . ''
that land is a wasteland .
we can not live there . ''
i will set a portion of the land aside to serve the needs of yourselves and your companions . ''
why ca n't we build this city here ? ''
gwaum spat .
i will not live in this repulsive land .
i can not destroy it as i have napoli .
humans are my food and these lands west of the ice mountains i will keep as habitat for humans to live .
at least until my plans are complete and all men are under my dominion . ''
curn opened his mouth to say something , but gwaum muted him with a gesture of his hand .
we have finished talking .
you know what i want .
enjoy your captives , and then we will make plans . ''
gwaum , now well fed , moved off into the forest , with a feeling is satisfaction .
his plans were under way .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents raiders using a stick to draw in earth scuffed clean with the heel of his boot nath drew a diagram of the village that lay in the hidden valley below them .
he pointed to the small stockade that occupied the center of the village .
his face was grim .
we have been working here for a year and the people have become wary , '' he said as he addressed the group of men who surrounded him .
even at night they watch .
everyone is sleeping in this stockade and there are guards posted in the forests above the town . ''
we have located their lookout posts , '' said curn , as he joined his brother at the center of the circle .
the moon is asleep tonight and it will be dark .
we will kill their lookouts first .
you will take up your positions and kill the lookouts at my signal .
is this understood ? ''
a grunt of assent arose from the group .
when we have killed the sentries we will descend into the town using their buildings as cover . ''
nath indicated one corner of the stockade .
the stream runs close to this corner .
nath , four others , and i will come up the streambed and approach the stockade from the brush that lines the stream .
each of us will be carrying a bundle of firewood on our backs .
we will place this firewood at the base of the stockade and pour oil on the timbers .
then we will light the wood . ''
at this , he again studied the faces of his fellow raiders .
the stockade will burn quickly .
those of you with the fire arrows supplied by gwaum will then shoot them into the stockade .
this will set some of the buildings inside on fire .
the fire will create panic among the people inside .
most of the guards along the palisade and in the tower will desert their posts to go to fight the fire . ''
his eyes scanned the faces of his men .
when the fire breaks out , the people will try to escape through the main gate .
we will be waiting for them .
are there any questions ? ''
silence met his ears .
all right , then everyone gets some sleep .
we will have a busy night . ''
the brothers watched as the group dissolved .
curn glanced at nath .
do you think it will go that smooth ? ''
nath shrugged .
this is our first big raid .
we will rain here no more for a while as the population is watchful as the rumor of us grows . ''
we should not need to attack again .
this is a sizable village and should provide all the prisoners gwaum wants for now . ''
we will still have to get them to this city he talks about .
it is a long journey to take with so many captives . ''
that is a worry for tomorrow , brother .
now we should rest until tonight .
everything is ready . ''
the brothers moved off to their sleeping quarters in the brush and the day passed .
the people in the village below them enjoyed the last happy day they would ever know .
the night of terror began with a fire at the corner of the stockade .
sentries in the towers cried out the alarm and the people arose .
the night sky lit up with a rain of fire , and buildings caught fire .
smoke , screams and crackling sparks filled the air .
confusion reigned .
the inhabitants made a rush for the main gates that they thrust open and ran out into the night .
their terror grew as the armed men of curn and nath surrounded them .
some of the men tried to fight , but the raiders cut them down , then bound the survivors in their nightclothes and sacked the town .
by morning , it was over .
gwaum had his captives and the raiders their loot and allotment of women .
nath fondled the naked woman who lay bound on the ground in front of him .
her face , dirty and framed by her disheveled hair , spat hate and fear at him .
we have over fifty prisoners , curn , '' he said .
this will please gwaum . ''
there was also a nice take of gold and silver coin in the houses .
we have done well in our first raid . ''
what is next , nath ? ''
we let the men enjoy their new toys . ''
at this , he again fondled the bound woman .
tomorrow we must start the journey south to this road gwaum speaks of . ''
it will take many days to get there . ''
the prisoners will bear food , and there will be water along the way . ''
we will have to stick to the mountains and avoid the desert . ''
that is the plan . ''
i think , nath , i am going to enjoy my new toy for the rest of the day .
tomorrow begins a long journey .
we will have little time to play . ''
nath smiled .
i agree , brother .
this one is a hellcat .
in a few days , she will have lost her spirit from exhaustion and short rations . ''
they all will , brother . ''
days passed as the pathetic procession made their way south .
gwaum visited periodically to feed and converse with the brothers .
the feeling of terror grew among the prisoners .
gwaum forbade conversation during the long day marches and at night , they collapsed into an exhausted sleep .
each in their minds wondered at their fate .
they were driving them south through strange lands to a fate they could only guess at .
the frequent visits by gwaum impressed upon them the nature of their future .
each foresaw a future filled with horror and death .
nath was the first to see it as they drove the now diminished procession up the mountain .
he pointed and said , that is it , curn .
the road of terror . ''
curn 's eyes examined the road , built from rubble of the mountains that spanned the valleys between them .
he turned to look at the prisoners , whose eyes bore their despair .
to them , and those who would come after , this road would become the road of terror .
it was a road into a land of horror and death from which there would be no escape .
they needed many more days to drive the prisoners to gwaum 's city .
this is a barren , hard land , curn , '' said nath as he surveyed the scene before him .
gwaum seems to like it well enough .
i should not like to dwell here long .
this red dust , '' at this nath kicked at the ground with a booted foot , raising a cloud of red , stinks and clogs the lungs . ''
i will look forward to our hunting trips , curn . ''
i shall also .
it may be that we will have to venture forth soon .
gwaum ate many of the prisoners on the way and some died in this desolate land . ''
we will have to establish a small post in that village at the head of the road .
we will need food and water stockpiled there to supply the prisoners before the long march to this place . ''
i agree , nath .
there should also be food and water caches established along that road .
the prisoners can not carry enough to last for the march . ''
we will have to take that up with him after he has fed and had time to enjoy himself here .
he was getting testy towards the end . ''
the brothers and their men finished securing the prisoners in the prison gwaum constructed .
they then spent the next few days preparing for another foray into island world .
years melted away and gwaum 's city grew .
nath and curn conducted many raids into island world , where the rumor of their presence created terror .
there was no one to oppose them .
gwaums frequent visits to that sorry land made sure of that .
at his signal , the guard opened the prison door .
he entered .
the humans ran from him , their shrieks filled his ears .
one was a bit slower to run , and gwaum reached towards the woman , who tripped and fell .
a baby cried in her arms .
gwaum paused .
these babies took a long time to mature .
many years would pass before they were big enough to serve as a meal .
they were tender , though , and their meat was sweet .
the woman was scooting along the ground , using her feet to propel her along as her screaming eyes watched as gwaum made his decision .
these people were breeding .
there were many babies on the way .
gwaum especially liked the ones with babies still inside them .
the prisoners , fearing his intentions , had refused to breed .
however , the guards and raiders relished breeding with the prisoners .
many of the women became pregnant .
gwaum drew back his hand .
for now , he would let this one alone .
instead , he strode to the wall , where dozens of prisoners lined up , crying and screaming .
it seemed they never got used to his habits .
he chose a young man , grabbed him by the ankles , suspended him above his maw and dropped the screaming man in .
he left the prison , his hunger assuaged .
his plans were complete .
the accomplishment created a warm glow of satisfaction .
he had managed to establish a breeding colony of these humans .
his band of hunters roamed the environs of island world , bringing back prisoners .
he now had more than enough to eat .
he no longer needed to hunt .
the object of his other search surfaced in his mind .
none of the prisoners brought back satisfied his requirements .
all were wizards of lesser orders and these did not fulfill his needs .
he turned back towards the prison .
it was time to begin that other hunt .
however , that might mean several days without feeding .
people on the outside were wary and scarce and fled at the mere rumor of him or his raiders .
he returned to the prison , chose two more humans and fed .
now he was ready .
again , he stood at the terminus of his road .
he looked south into the land of cleery .
for many years he had neglected this land , allowing it to recover .
the people who escaped him many years ago came from this land .
possibly this is where they returned .
perhaps they now felt secure .
he had sent his raiders into other lands , seeking prey .
none had come here .
he sensed a presence in this land .
a wizard dwelt here , one of those that he needed .
the road beckoned him .
his feet were soon on it , traveling south into the heart of cleery .
he sensed humans fleeing from him .
he didnt need to feed .
not yet .
however , he knew that when he did , this land had recovered enough to allow him to find prey .
in the distance , he could see the remains of a small village .
he strode through it , and smelled the ocean .
he was approaching the sea .
the wizard was near .
he could feel him .
he stopped .
he did not want this wizard to see him .
he did not want to allow him to have time to prepare for mortal combat .
he entered the forest and crept among the trees .
the pull of the wizard was stronger and stronger .
he emerged from the forest into a clearing .
a house stood at the far edge of that clearing , the bay of the ruined city sparkling in the sun beyond the house .
four people stood behind the cottage .
there were two female humans and two males .
only one of the males interested him .
he could feel the power of that wizard .
he stepped forward , extending his hand towards him .
the wizard extended his wand .
little did gwaum care about the magic this one wizard might possess .
he was powerful enough to withstand any wizard that might choose to fight against him .
a flash of fire blinded him .
his eye burned .
he stepped back , grasped a tree and threw it down .
he could not see .
he turned towards the sounds of screaming .
that wizard , he must have that wizard .
the wizard had burned his eye , but he could still feel him in front of him , pinned under the tree he had toppled .
the other male was facing him .
he felt a power in that one , also .
however , the power was not mature .
it would not do .
he reached for the pinned one .
he was just about in his grasp when he became aware of a circling wind .
the wind grew in intensity .
he stepped back , and straightened up .
a cloud of dust swirled around him .
he felt it lifting him in the air .
he , the mighty gwaum , held helpless by a wind .
he fought to escape its power .
the ground drew away from his feet .
the humans grew smaller and smaller as he went higher and higher .
it was blowing him east , back into his land .
the wind stopped .
his body dropped and hit the earth .
the ground trembled .
long gwaum lay , healing his hurts .
his burned eye healed , as did his body .
anger burned within him .
for many years that land had escaped his raiders .
he had allowed it to heal .
now , that would change .
after many days , he was able to stand .
he returned to the prison and fed .
one of his raider groups was returning laden with prisoners and booty .
he watched they herded the prisoners into the prison .
he would allow these men to rest and play with the victims of their choice .
gwaum required more time to heal .
he would stay here and rest and feed .
there was plenty of food .
when these hunters were ready , he would send them back into that land .
the inhabitants of that land would pay for his humiliation .
then he , gwaum , would return .
he would find and consume that wizard .
when he did , his power would be complete back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents turson and sali turson stood in the door of the log cabin that served as he and sali 's home .
he remembered that day , over twenty years before , when he and his frightened group of refugees had entered cleery bay .
it had been a rainy , cold day .
they sailed past the ruined city , believing it to be a focus for gwaum when he returned .
they had sailed into a small cove .
a tiny village at one time occupied a bluff over the stream that emptied into the cove .
some of the buildings still stood , the abandoned fields of the village lying in a valley below the town .
they shunned this site also , as they felt any formerly settled site was too conspicuous .
they wanted a new spot , hidden , yet close to the river .
they sank the boat in the river and crept up the road that overlooked the river at night to escape detection .
they searched the surrounding hills and valleys near the river .
they decided upon a hidden valley far up in the hills .
they had built their compact , secure houses into the side of the hills , camouflaged at need by brush cut and kept at the ready nearby .
they raised their vegetable and grains on scattered plots in the hills and hidden meadows .
they traveled the roads only at night , not wishing any of the nearby residents to detect them .
five children sali bore turson , one set of twins and three others .
senn , the oldest , was now over twenty years old .
he had shunned marrying , as did his twin sister senneel .
children they would not have .
not in a world dominated by gwaum .
senn lived near , in a small cabin of his own construction .
he hunted and kept a small garden .
he and turson enjoyed hunting the hills together .
a sound from the forest drew turson 's attention .
it was the sound of running footsteps .
senn emerged from the forest .
a single word escaped from senns lips .
it was a word that sent a shiver of terror through tursons body .
gwaum .
turson waited until his son stood before him .
then he asked , where ?
i was hunting in the high country when i saw him on the road .
he left the road , entered the forest and began climbing into the hills .
i followed him long enough to see that he was not coming here .
where is he going ?
senn pointed .
he is heading to that group of uninhabited cottages on the road above cleery .
why would he be heading up there ?
no one lives there .
remember the rumors we have heard of a healer living in that area .
if there is a healer living there , then she is in danger .
we should seek her out and warn her . ''
sali looked out of the window , saw senn and emerged from the cottage wiping her hands on her apron , followed by senneel .
the yeasty smell of leavening bread clung to her as she smiled at senn .
good afternoon , senn . ''
she embraced her son , as did senneel .
i am baking bread .
the first loaves will be ready soon .
you should stay and enjoy fresh bread and ale . ''
i just saw gwaum in the forest , mother .
he was headed toward those deserted cabins on the road above cleery . ''
that is not so far away , '' said sali , her face reflecting her fear .
he will find no one there to eat , '' said turson .
let 's hope he does not turn his steps this way . ''
sali glanced at turson .
perhaps you should pull the brush piles we keep ready in front of our cottage .
we should go inside and hide . ''
before turson could answer , an unholy roar thundered across the forest .
they glanced towards the sky towards the sound .
an amazing sight met their eyes .
the figure of gwaum appeared floating above the earth , rising fast , borne on the wings of the wind .
he was flailing with his arms and roaring as he ascended .
higher and higher he rose until only a black dot was visible , veering away to the east .
the dot , for one moment , stayed still in the sky .
the dot fell and disappeared .
the monster was gone .
news of the downfall of gwaum spread among the people of torne .
the monster is dead , was on many tongues in the days and weeks after the encounter .
many of the inhabitants threw off their caution .
some began to reclaim the villages their ancestors had abandoned so many years before .
turson and sali were not so sure about this .
gwaum is powerful , turson said to sali and senn , as the family gathered one summer evening .
i do not believe that he is dead .
i dont believe he is dead , either , said sali .
none of us who escaped him believe that .
those who believe that and now choose to live in the villages are taking foolish chances .
senn stood and placed a log on the fire that blazed in the center of their gathering .
he felt the warmth of the fire on his face .
the people are getting tired of living in fear and hiding .
i fear something bad is about to happen , said turson .
gwaum will be angry .
he will strike back .
i fear that he will make us suffer for his humiliation .
i hope you are wrong , but i fear you are right , said sali .
it is getting late , and i am tired .
she stood and walked into their cabin .
turson stood , and saying nothing , followed her .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents the peril of geron he awoke to find an unfamiliar face peering down into his .
the man glanced away and spoke words that geron could not understand .
a sword was thrust into his face , then withdrawn and what seemed like a command shouted at him .
geron sat up .
two men moved to hold his arms .
geron reached for his sword and found his scabbard was empty .
the sword now pressed against his throat .
he allowed the men to bind his hands behind him .
they pulled him to his feet and propelled to his men , also bound and sitting cross legged on the ground .
the man released him and he sat down among his fellows .
he leaned towards fawl mern , one of his companions , and said , how long was i unconscious ? ''
not long , an hour , perhaps . ''
a sword thrust against geron 's throat stifled further conversation .
geron 's eyes studied their captors who were in consultation among themselves .
frequent glances their way indicated that geron and his companions were the subject of the conversation .
geron had counted only four men , besides himself , in the circle .
they must have killed the others in the ambush .
he berated himself for allowing these men to trap him in the chasm .
there had been no sign that anyone was following them , it was true .
still , there was no reason for him to have left his guard down in this mysterious land .
geron glanced again at their captors .
in the twenty years of exploring this land , they had met no one .
it was sore luck that their first encounter was a disastrous one .
shadows were lengthening and geron knew that it would soon be night .
bearl would await their return .
if they had n't returned by morning , geron was sure that bearl would send out a rescue mission .
he was sure these men would not stay here in the chasm .
these men were planning to move out soon .
geron had to find some means of delaying them until bearl would come .
he has awakened , nath .
what shall we do ? ''
nath glanced at the darkening skies .
we can not take these men along with us as we gather food for gwaum .
they are much too dangerous . ''
we ca n't stay here .
the men in that ship will miss these men and seek to rescue them . ''
we will outnumber any rescue party they can send , curn . ''
nath glanced at the captives .
these are not the type of people we usually hunt , nath .
these men are warriors , as are the men who will come looking for them . ''
we could ambush them , like we did these and take them all . ''
we lost six men in the fight , nath .
we would have lost more if not for the fact we surprised them .
we will not have that advantage with this second group .
they will be expecting trouble . ''
nath mulled these facts over .
we will rest for a few hours .
before dawn , we will move out . ''
where should we go , nath ? ''
nath 's eyes scanned the captives again .
we will take them to caracolla .
there are stone cottages there we can use to imprison them in . ''
we should take them back to gwaum , nath .
he will want to study them , as well as these weapons . ''
curn picked up one of the swords taken from one of the captives .
these are good quality .
there has been nothing like them forged since before gwaum . ''
no folk like that has existed since before him , either .
i wonder whence they have come . ''
nath 's eyes followed his brother 's , scanning the captives .
we have observed signs of habitation on that island off shore of torne .
we have found signs of habitation and hunting near mye .
perhaps these people and those are the same . ''
they do have a ship .
we saw that much .
they had to come from somewhere else .
they are not from island world , that much i will guess . ''
gwaum will extract from them information that which we can only guess . ''
nath glanced at his brother and asked , do you want to take them to gwaum ? ''
curn shook his head .
i do not want to go back to gwaum without a supply of more slaves . ''
nath glanced at the depleted number of raiders .
we have lost six men , curn .
it will take more to guard these captives .
we will have to hunt with a reduced number of men . ''
we must gather some captives , nath .
we can not go back empty handed . ''
we have these men , curn . ''
gwaum may not want to eat them , nath .
he may wish to convert them into raiders . ''
fear entered nath 's eyes .
these are better men than us , curn .
gwaum may , after he converts them , wish to supplant us with them . ''
again , curn glanced at the captives .
i did n't think of that , nath .
it is a possibility .
perhaps we should kill them .
gwaum would not have to know about them . ''
they killed six of us , curn .
gwaum will want to know what happened . ''
curn again looked at the captives .
we will take them to caracolla and imprison them while we think about what we should do .
once we have them imprisoned , we will only need to leave two or three guards .
if we have the full complement of captives for gwaum , in addition to these men , gwaum will look on us with favor . ''
with a shrug , nath said , i hope you are right , curn .
i think we should set watches and allow the men to rest .
tomorrow we will have to keep on the move .
it is a long march to caracolla . ''
curn agreed and the raiders spent an uneasy night .
geron watched as their captors went to sleep .
he studied the man who was to stand guard over them .
darkness obscured the man 's face as he sat facing his charges .
geron waited .
he knew by the looks of his captors that the fight had exhausted them .
after a time , he knew by the slow , steady breathing of the guard that he was asleep .
he nudged fawl , who grunted his understanding .
their captors had not bound their feet .
after writhing a bit , geron and his men managed to stand .
he longed to slay these men , but his hands were bound , so as quiet as he could he and his men managed to creep among the sleeping raiders .
they picked their path along the starlit path of the chasm .
they were almost away , when a rock , kicked by a misguided foot , clattered along the stony path .
a shout arose in the camp of their captors .
run as best you can , '' cried geron .
headlong he ran , with the sounds of pursuit close behind .
running as fast as he could , geron plunged headlong into the darkness .
one by one , he heard his men behind him recaptured .
geron was a swift runner , but was at a disadvantage with his hands bound .
he could hear the pursuit coming closer and closer .
his foot caught a rock , tripping him .
he plunged forward and felt himself falling into a crevice in the rock .
bloodied and bruised he lay at the bottom .
he listened to the pursuit of feet over his head , and then the sounds of searching in the darkness as his captors sought him .
muffled conversation in a language he did not understand rippled across the chasm .
there was hope .
they could not find him .
geron lay , hoping that the pounding of his heart did not betray him to his pursuers .
escape he could not hope for , only to delay these men until bearl could mount a rescue .
geron knew that hope was all he now had .
nath kicked the last fugitive they had regained in frustration , as he lay helpless on the ground .
one has escaped , curn .
we have to find him . ''
the night has swallowed him , but i do n't think he has gotten far . ''
how can you know that ? ''
we did not hear his footsteps .
his hands are bound .
he is near , but hiding .
when light comes we will find him . ''
when light comes , men from his ship will come .
we must be far from here when that happens . ''
we will find him , nath . ''
we must find him .
if he carries knowledge of us back to his people who knows what they will do . ''
they can not defy gwaum . ''
nath glanced at his brother .
do you not think that gwaum would sacrifice to get them if he desired them ?
he would use us to gain those warriors .
with their strength , he would rule island world . ''
that is all the more reason that we should slay these men , curn .
we can not allow gwaum to possess them or even know of their existence . ''
nath thought this over .
it is possible you are right , but i do n't want to kill them just yet .
we may have a use for them . ''
what could that be ?
these men are dangerous .
they have just proven that . ''
nath glanced at the brightening sky .
we will discuss this later .
we must move before the sun comes up . ''
what about the missing one ? ''
we will have to leave him .
we do not have time to hunt him down . ''
he will warn those men on the ship about us . ''
what if he does ?
they will not follow us into the desert .
if they do , we know the desert , they do not . ''
curn did not reply .
it was fruitless to argue with nath after he made up his mind .
nath turned to the raider standing closest to him .
ready the prisoners .
we move in ten minutes . ''
they roused the prisoners and after a brief delay , the group proceeded along the floor of the chasm .
in less than an hour they reached the end and they shuffled into the desert , towards the mountain of seven rivers .
pain racked his body .
his head ached from the blow he received earlier and many other bruises and cuts sustained in the fall joined in .
geron shifted position .
the hunt for him had ended , the heavy footfalls of the searchers ceased .
he felt a sharp rock jabbing into his back .
an idea occurred to him .
he managed to raise himself and position his wrists near the rock .
he rubbed the rope that bound his hands on the sharp edge .
on occasion , the rock jabbed into soft flesh .
he felt the warm , sticky flow of his blood as it ran .
still , he kept rubbing .
time rewarded his efforts .
he felt the strands of the rope parting .
then he was free .
he rubbed the life back into his wrists and hands .
he emerged from the crevice and peered into the darkness .
he could hear the sound of conversation and followed it .
in the gathering light he could see two men conversing .
it was clear that these men were the leaders of the group that had ambushed him .
he crouched behind a rock and looked at his men , their hands bound , seated in a circle .
after the two men finished conversing , another man walked to his soldiers and pulled them , one by one , to their feet .
geron hurried back to the site of the battle .
he took the sword , a water bottle and a dagger of one of his fallen compatriots and rushed back to his former spot .
as geron watched , the group began walking towards the opposite end of the chasm .
geron followed , keeping just out of sight .
at length , they reached the end .
the sun was now extending one orange tip above the horizon .
geron was sure that by now bearl would be sending out a search party .
it would take hours to reach the chasm by following the tracks they left in the sand .
geron paused as he watched his men approaching the horizon .
in a moment , they would disappear .
if he waited for bearl , the captors would have a head start of several hours .
if he followed , he risked losing his chance to join up with bearl .
geron did not understand the language of their captors , but he knew that the two leaders disagreed .
the way the one looked at his companions , it was clear he wished to kill them .
the other hesitated for some unknown reason .
geron did not want to leave his companions to the whims of these men .
they were too many for him to attack , but if he were patient , an opportunity might present itself .
his decision reached , he followed the tracks across the desert .
he would not leave his companions to men such as these .
with his eyes glued to the western sky , nath said , it looks like a windstorm is approaching . ''
we have returned to the river .
we need to take shelter in the brush which lines the river . ''
he glanced back at the tracks they were leaving in the sand .
it is fortunate , nath .
the storm will hide our tracks . ''
nath nodded .
they will not know which direction we have taken and will not pursue us . ''
the storm rushed across the desert , swirling clouds of sand driven before it .
the storm engulfed them , driving tiny particles of sand into their skin .
using dampened cloths to cover their faces , the men rode out the storm that passed in a few hours .
as his eyes swept the horizon , nath said , the storm swept our tracks clean .
we are safe . ''
curn smiled .
in a couple of days we will reach the mountain of seven rivers . ''
i think we should camp for the night , curn .
we can catch fish in the river and rest .
tomorrow we can continue our journey . ''
this nath agreed to and soon the raiders were bathing in the river and finding suitable campsites along the shore .
the prisoners , dusty , hot and hungry , sat in a circle , guarded by two resentful guards .
a short distance away geron watched .
staying just out of sight , geron followed his quarry across the sands .
he had little water and no food .
his only hope lay in stealing supplies from this undisciplined band at night while they slept .
perhaps he might also be able to free his men if they left their guard down .
the storm gathering in the west worried him .
he had heard tales of dust storms in the deserts in their homeland .
travelers could become lost or even suffocate on the dust in such storms .
he could see , in the distance , a tree line , dark against the southern horizon .
they were approaching the river .
the storm created another problem .
he had counted on bearl following their tracks across the desert .
he had even traced his name in the sand a few times in an attempt to communicate with his brother .
this storm would erase any record of their passage .
geron was alone in a strange land against almost twenty armed men .
the storm overtook him before he made the shelter of the trees .
holding a cloth dampened by water from his bottle over his mouth and nose , geron stumbled around in the dusty hell .
twice he lost his direction , and twice , using the wind 's direction as a guide , he managed to regain his bearings .
he knew he had reached the tree line when he stumbled over a thorny shrub and fell , rolling down the incline towards the river .
he came to rest against another shrub and lay there , breathless and thankful , for several minutes .
he arose and crouched behind a small tree , allowing its branches to shelter him from the driving , pitiless sand .
hours passed and finally the storm blew itself out .
geron descended the slope to the river and washed his face and hands .
hunger bit at his stomach .
he rested by the water .
he was over looking a small pool , fed by rapids above it .
he removed his boots and stepped out into the water .
he felt , with his toes , something he remembered from his childhood .
he reached down , felt around and pulled a mussel from the river bottom .
using his dagger , he pried the shell open and devoured the fleshy mass inside .
continuing his path through the shallow water , he soon found another , which he also ate .
he filled his stomach with the delicious meal , returned to the shore , refreshed , and satisfied .
he looked upstream .
somewhere in that direction he would find his companions .
that is , if they were still alive .
he made his way upstream , darting from clump to clump of vegetation , his ears attuned to any sound .
as darkness began to gather in the skies , he heard the murmur of conversation and the shouts of men by the river .
staying concealed , he crept forward and soon saw men down by the river , bathing and fishing in its warm waters .
he climbed higher up the slope and soon found a good vantage point .
he could see his companions , still bound , near the top of the slope .
there were two men guarding them .
geron 's hopes rose .
somehow , in the night , he might be able to free his companions .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents geron plots the real reasons that nath had for allowing the prisoners to live he could n't tell curn .
he could tell no one , as he was not sure whom , if anyone , he could trust .
his mind drifted back to the time that gwaum forced he and curn to his service .
in the almost twenty years he and curn had both taken concubines from among the prisoners as had most of the other raiders and guards .
the children produced by these unions gwaum had exempted from his depredations .
the prisoner colony was growing , as the raiders brought back more food than gwaum could eat .
many of the women prisoners were having children .
gwaum fed on few of these children .
nath felt that gwaum was trying to establish a breeding population .
this would reduce the need to hunt the depleting population of island world .
many children of the guards and raiders were reaching an age when gwaum might bring them into his service .
nath had sensed restlessness in gwaum .
since his injury many months ago , gwaum had not ventured from his land .
it was as though he was afraid of something and depended on the food his raiders brought him .
that food was becoming harder and harder to obtain , though .
the raiders ' reputation now preceded them .
the people kept sentries on duty .
when his raiders approached , the populace of an area secreted themselves deep in the mountains or in the forests .
gwaum had added a second team of raiders to aid in gathering food and slaves .
nath had guessed at gwaum 's restlessness .
he had followed gwaum 's instructions to separate out any wizards they captured .
none of the wizards they sought ever satisfied the creature 's need .
at first this behavior mystified nath .
over time , curn and nath had questioned some of these wizards and found that there were many orders of wizards among the magical folk .
as time passed , nath became convinced that gwaum sought one of the most powerful wizards on island world .
he was sure he searched for one of an order called the order of the golden star .
nath was not sure what gwaum wanted with one of these wizards but he knew that it was important for him to do so .
if he ever found a wizard of this order , nath determined that he would not turn him over to gwaum .
he would keep him for himself .
his eye wandered to the four prisoners who marched in front of him .
these men were soldiers , trained to fight .
they would be an invaluable addition to a plan he had formulated .
it was a plan that he would reveal in stages to his brother , but no one else .
he glanced at his brother as he strode beside him .
he , nath , was becoming tired of gwaum 's domination .
nath could not be sure if he was the only one .
maybe all the raiders felt it and were afraid to speak of it .
maybe he , nath , was the only one .
right now nath was holding out the hope that maybe these men could be their means of escaping gwaum 's domination .
perhaps , if he could just talk to one of them he could convince them to ally themselves to him .
maybe they would help him complete his plan .
maybe they would help him find one of these powerful wizards and use him to defy gwaum .
he glanced sidelong at his brother as they plodded along .
the prisoners , hands still bound behind them , marched in front of them .
one of them stumbled over a rock and fell .
curn pulled his dagger from his belt , stooped and grabbed the man 's hair pulling his head back .
no , '' said nath , as he grabbed his brother 's hand .
these men are slowing us down , '' said curn , his face hardened in a scowl .
they are nothing but trouble for us , nath .
we should kill them all . ''
i said that i wanted to wait . ''
nath pulled his brother around to face him .
their eyes locked .
curn was the first to look away .
mark what i say , nath .
keeping these men alive will prove an ill thing for us . ''
we are almost to caracolla , brother .
it will hurt nothing for us to imprison them in the tower there . ''
it will require us to leave guards behind to watch them .
we are already short handed because these men killed several of our number . ''
it will only take three men to guard them , curn .
there is no escape from the tower .
there is only one door and there are only small portals that are too small for a man to use to escape .
they will be safe there and will need a minimal guard .
once we have gathered more food for gwaum we can conceal them in the crowd and gwaum will not know that they are other landers .
we will not waste the effort we expended to capture them . ''
we need all the men we can get to gather food for gwaum .
we will be raiding with only sixteen men . ''
that will be more than enough , curn .
these settlements in the north are small and the people frightened . ''
curn grumbled , i still do not like it .
we should kill them and finish with them .
i do not understand why you want them alive .
we can not turn them over to gwaum .
we can not keep them to ourselves , and i see no purpose to that , anyway . ''
they may prove valuable to us if we have any more dealings with those other landers .
they are too strong for us .
they may have value to us .
at any rate , i do n't think it is wise for us to discard them .
we do not know yet what value they might have . ''
no good can come from hiding them from gwaum .
they bring danger to us . ''
silence enveloped the rest of the march .
also , as caracolla finally came into view , the truce between the two brothers persisted .
desert changed into low , wooded hills .
in the distance a mountain came into view .
geron shaded his eyes against the lowering sun .
he was glad to leave the desolate , barren land behind him .
this mountain , which dominated the smaller mountains around it , was almost certainly their destination .
for days geron shadowed the procession , unable to help , or free , his men .
he was now deeper into the interior of this land than he had ever penetrated .
this was an immense , beautiful land .
it was also a cursed one .
geron could feel the fear , even if he could not see the people .
gwaum dominated this land even more than this huge , beautiful mountain .
the procession continued on the next day .
at midday , they enter the remains of a small village located near the roots of the mountain .
geron continued to climb the mountain and soon found himself perched behind a rock , peering into the village .
he could see their captors herding his men into a tower in the center of the town .
he studied it with care .
it was stone with only one door .
the top had only small portals , much too small for a man to slither through .
it was obvious that this tower was to serve as a prison for his men .
he watched as the captors set a guard at the door and disbursed into several of the stone cottages that surrounded it .
he could do little until nightfall .
he glanced upwards .
the summit of the mountain beckoned him .
he climbed further up , finally reaching the peak as the sun touched the horizon .
below him , he could see the outlines of seven rivers as they reached out to the far corners of this world .
the beauty of the land surrounding him caught his breath .
there were so many lands to explore .
one river in particular drew his eyes .
that river seemed to flow towards the island eris .
he made a mental note of this .
his thoughts returned to his men .
somehow , he must get them free .
if he could , they would traverse that land and go back to their island .
two days passed .
geron was getting impatient .
there were always men about , and there were always two guards at the tower .
.
even under the cover of darkness he was unable to get into the town .
the men kept a continual fire burning as the captors feasted on wild game from the mountains .
he saw that someone had discovered a cask of wine in one of the houses and the mountains rang with the sound of their revelry .
geron watched in envy .
there was game on this mountain but he had no means of getting it .
even if he had managed to snare a lerf or some other animal , he could not chance a fire to cook .
he kept alive by eating small grubs and bird 's eggs he foraged .
there were nuts littering the ground which he cracked and ate .
it was enough to keep him alive .
the third day dawned .
geron saw most of the captors gathering at the center of the town .
as the sun climbed , these men formed a line and marched out of the town , leaving a small contingent of three guards behind .
this development pleased geron .
he would observe the habits of these guards .
tonight he would be ready .
he would strike and free his men .
again , nath and curn found themselves at the head of their raiders .
it is good to raid again , brother , '' curn said .
this time we have no prisoners to slow us . ''
that will soon change , curn .
i saw the signs of a settlement earlier when we passed . ''
we are still close enough to caracolla that if we catch some prey here , we could take them back to caracolla while we go out again on raids . ''
nath felt that now was the time to begin revealing his plan to curn .
it might be feasible to use that town as a permanent base for our operations . ''
we would have to convince gwaum to convert more men to use as guards . ''
nath said , i will speak to him about it when we return .
we will need replacements for the ones killed . ''
it would be convenient to have a base on this side of the mountains .
maybe he will set us up as viceroys here .
we could set up our own small kingdom here . ''
this idea has occurred to me also , curn .
however , gwaum would never allow it .
if we do that , it would have to be in secret we can have no secrets from gwaum .
he will dig into our minds , or those of the other raiders . ''
we must give him no reason to dig into our minds , nath .
this must stay between you and me .
i fear what may happen to our children and our women if we stay under gwaum 's dominion .
he says he will not eat them .
but , he is our master and we can not oppose him if he changes his mind .
i have been thinking and have a plan .
it involves those prisoners we took . ''
curn glanced at his brother .
i thought there was more to your desire to keep them alive than you were saying . ''
after saying this , nath held up his hand and the column stopped .
it was here , on the banks of this river , i saw footprints near the water .
there are people here . ''
we will discuss my plan later , curn .
now it is time to hunt .
we will leave a small group of men here , concealed in the trees above the river to watch , '' said nath .
you and i and a few others will search these hills .
we are bound to find a settlement here somewhere . ''
the hunt was on , and in a couple of days they caught more unfortunates , destined for the belly of gwaum .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents escape the expedition that set out that morning did not return by night .
geron did not know how much time he would have to free his men .
as the sunset , he determined that when it got dark he would make his move .
as darkness settled over the land , he descended from his lookout on the mountain .
when he reached the bottom , he crept among the trees at the edge of the deserted town .
only one guard was watching his men .
deciding that the main group would no longer return that day , geron waited .
the darkness grew deeper and the lights in the house the other guards were in still glowed .
at length one of the guards came out of the house and approached the guard by the door .
after exchanging words , the men changed places .
the man who had been standing sentry walked at a brisk pace to the stone cottage .
minutes passed and the lights in the cottage went out .
still geron waited .
a half full moon illuminated the night sky , casting a silver glow over the cobbled streets of the village .
after a time the man standing outside the door opened the door to the tower , peered in , and then closed the door .
the man sat down , his back against the stone wall .
geron crept closer , treading softly on the stone street .
his hand closed on the hilt of his dagger and he pulled it out .
the low , rumbling sound of snoring met his ears .
the guard , having imbibed too much wine before his stint of night watch began , slept a sound , last sleep .
a smile crept over geron 's face .
now he was beside the man .
his hand gripped the hair on the man 's head and a sudden slice with the dagger cut off any scream the dying man might make .
the body slumped to the cobblestones , turning them dark with the man 's blood .
geron pulled the door open .
fawl , '' he said in a low voice .
geron ? ''
yes , it is i . ''
i knew you would come for us . ''
i have .
there is time for conversation later .
i have come to free you . ''
the keys to the locks are beside the door . ''
geron felt along the doorjamb and located the ring of keys .
he crossed the room and fumbled at the lock .
in a moment , the metallic clinking sound announced that the lock was open .
he pulled the door open and his men filed out of the metal cage .
come here now .
i have killed the guard . ''
they exited the tower , passed the dead guard and disappeared into the darkness .
a road lay beside the river , but geron and his men dared not use it .
they were lightly armed , geron with his sword , fawl with the short sword of the dead guard and the other two men with daggers .
thus , they kept to the wild areas that lined the road , following it as it descended from the mountains toward the sea .
for three days , they marched , passing deserted villages , lonely cottages and farmsteads .
at midday on the third day , the sea appeared before them .
a ruined city lay on their side of the river , returning to the forests from which it sprang .
there was a great city here in years past , '' said fawl .
yes .
it is quite deserted now , i fear , '' said geron .
we were not far from this city , or the bay which protects it .
i think our hunting lands lay just a few miles to the east , over those mountains on the other side of the river . ''
how is it that we missed this during our voyage ? ''
geron paused in thought .
we must have missed it in the fog .
storms blew down on us just after we started , hiding this bay from our eyes . ''
they passed an unkempt road that led beside a stream that fed into the river .
geron signaled a stop .
fawl explored the road with inquisitive eyes .
do you wish to explore that road ? ''
we have to cross this stream , '' said geron .
perhaps there is a ford upstream where the water is not so deep . ''
they took the road , picking their way through the trees and forbs that had invaded its bed .
a mile back from the main river they came to the remains of a small settlement .
this place is well hidden among the forest , '' said geron .
fawl climbed a tree that had limbs close to the ground .
he ascended to the top and peered around .
there are overgrown fields which would take little time to clear .
there is an excellent place for a stockade on a little rise above the village . ''
geron raised his face to fawl and asked , do you see any signs of habitation ? ''
fawl shaded his face with his hand and said , i do not .
it appears completely uninhabited . ''
the fear of that creature and those men we encountered pervades the countryside . ''
i think that group of men is a hunting party for the creature . ''
what makes you think that ? ''
fawl descended the tree , perched on the lower branch for a moment , then jumped to the ground .
he sat down , his back to the tree .
we could n't understand their language .
however , they kept repeating a name that sounded like gwaum .
always , when they said it , a look of both fear and reverence crossed their faces . ''
you think gwaum is this creatures name ? ''
fawl nodded .
there was a lot of discussion between the two who appeared as leaders which seemed to be about us .
i got the feeling that they could not decide what to do with us .
one of them , curn , i think his name was , appeared to want to kill us .
the other , who he called nath , did n't want to .
he appeared to be the leader .
he kept looking at us , but not with the same look of fear and hatred . ''
what do you think they would have done ? ''
with a shrug , fawl said , i do not know , and it is not important now .
you freed us from whatever fate awaited us at their hands . ''
i would never have deserted you .
it is now important for us to get back to bearl and the colony . ''
we have seen what we need to see here , geron .
it could make a good spot for us to settle . ''
geron walked to the bank of the stream and peered upstream and then downstream .
it does have all the things we need .
there is fresh water , access to the sea .
i think the morningstar could navigate upstream to this point .
we can clear the fields for use .
the mountains will have game and that hill , '' he turned to look towards it , is an excellent spot for a stockade .
i think you are right .
we must contact bearl and bring the people to this spot . ''
he directed the three other men to explore the stone buildings and the area around the village while he and fawl consulted .
the season is advancing , geron .
it will soon be winter .
how will we get back in contact with bearl ? ''
they will visit the hunting grounds before winter for game , so that is where he should be . ''
then we have little time to waste , geron . ''
somehow we must cross that river , fawl . ''
one of the men returned and said , i have found a small dugout boat in a building near the river .
it appears like it will still float . ''
geron and fawl exchanged glances .
fortune is with us .
we have found just what we need , when we need it . ''
they followed the man to the building and went inside .
fawl inspected the boat .
it is a bit dry rotted in spots , but it will float .
it should get us across the river . ''
he glanced at three sets of oars leaning against the wall .
it will only hold three of us at a time with our weapons . ''
let 's put it in the water , '' said geron .
we will be on the other side by nightfall . ''
they carried the boat to the stream .
the remains of a dock jutted out into the water .
they pushed the brush and weeds aside and put the boat into the water .
geron stepped into it as fawl held it .
geron glanced at the man who found the boat as he stepped back out of the boat .
you , tantas and fawl will cross .
then you will return for berlen and me . ''
the men entered the boat and geron watched as the boat drifted off downstream , helped along by the paddling of the men on board .
he sat down and leaned against the stone building , berlen beside him to wait .
fawl stepped up on the bank and turned to steady the boat as tantas followed him onto the bank .
he glanced at ander , who remained .
return for the others , as night is not far off . ''
yes , fawl , i will hurry . ''
fawl watched as the man turned the boat and began the return voyage across the river .
he had better hurry , fawl .
there is danger lurking upriver , '' said berlen .
fawl 's eyes swept the riverbank .
he fastened his eyes on a group of men visible on the road , it appears to be the men that captured us , '' he said .
they do n't yet see the boat as it returns . ''
they will soon , '' said berlen .
the boat was perhaps two thirds of the way across when one of the raiders spotted it .
he jabbed the man next to him and pointed to it .
how far upstream are they , '' asked berlen .
fawl squinted into the now setting sun , shading his eyes with his hand .
they are perhaps two miles away , maybe less . ''
it will not take them long to reach geron and tantas . ''
the boat entered the stream on the opposite side and disappeared from site as it rounded a bend .
do you think ander saw them ? ''
fawl nodded .
i think he did .
he picked up the pace a bit as he reached the stream . ''
let us hope so , '' said berlen .
the raiders broke into a run and the distance between them and the stream shrank .
there were only a few hundred feet between them and the stream when the boat reappeared .
geron glanced towards fawl , who was unaware of the danger that now approached from the road .
fawl jumped up and down , pointing to the road upstream .
geron turned and saw the men , now just feet from the bank .
an instant later , the men in the boat bent to their oars and the boat seemed to leap in the water .
it slowed as andrs oar broke under the strain .
two of the men jumped into the water and began swimming towards the boat , now just a few feet offshore .
ander threw his broken oar at the swimmers , striking one on the head .
the man sank beneath the waves , but two more jumped in and joined the pursuit .
ander used his remaining oar as if he was paddling a canoe , and the others redoubled their efforts .
slowly the craft pulled away from their pursuers .
as the boat reached midstream , the pursuit broke off .
a few minutes later , an exhausted geron , ander and tantas climbed ashore .
fawl glanced across at the group of men who now watched them helplessly from the opposite shore .
thank the heavens you made it , '' said fawl as he pulled geron from the boat .
it was close .
it is good that we found that boat .
they would have come on us on the other side unawares and surely recaptured . ''
we should put some distance between us and the river before it gets dark . ''
geron and his companions melted away into the gathering darkness leaving the frustrated raiders watching from the opposite bank of the river .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents return darkness crept over the mountain , but this did not slow geron 's pace .
he was back in familiar territory now and knew the terrain .
he looked forward to a hot fire and fresh meat from the hart suspended on a wooden pole carried by berlen and ander .
the hart they saw by a large mountain cat kill .
they tossed rocks and sticks at the cat , driving it off .
then they stole its dinner .
as they crested the last rise , geron signaled a stop .
the hunting cabin , which had been his target , lay below them .
he could smell smoke from a wood fire and light emanated from the single window that faced them .
there is someone in the cabin , '' said fawl .
it would appear so , '' said geron .
the question is , is it friend or foe ? ''
they hid behind trees , their breath steaming in the cold late autumn air .
geron 's eyes and ears searched the darkness .
they have set watches , '' he said .
one is hiding in that tree just ahead of us . ''
i spotted him too , '' said fawl .
i heard him as he cleared his throat . ''
there will be more , scattered about on three positions around the cabin . ''
it is the way we do it .
do you think this is one of our hunting parties ? ''
geron shrugged .
it probably is .
but i do not want to take chances that it is another of those other hunting parties . ''
what do you propose to do ? ''
geron inserted thumb and forefinger in his mouth and blew , creating a low , warbling whistle that broke the still of the night .
a moment later , the lookout repeated the signal .
other sentries , scattered around the cabin , echoed the signal in succession .
a smile broke out on geron 's face .
this is one of our parties .
we are safe . ''
the men broke cover and descended the hill .
the lookout descended from his tree and rushed to geron .
geron , we thought you were lost . ''
it is good to be back among friends , lunace . ''
come , the others are inside .
bearl and marial will be much pleased to see you . ''
marial is here , too ? ''
lunace stopped for a moment and faced geron .
much has happened since you disappeared in that desert , geron .
bearl will fill you in .
they will appreciate that hart .
save me a hunk . ''
that i will , lunace . ''
geron knocked at the door .
in a moment , it opened .
bearl stood , looking out into the darkness .
it took a moment for his eyes to adjust to the darkness , and then he recognized the face looking back at him .
geron .
joy of all joys , marial , it is geron . ''
marial jumped from her seat and rushed to geron .
she threw her arms about both her brothers .
the impact of her rush threw both bearl , geron out the door , and they fell to the ground laughing and crying in joy .
when the wave of euphoria passed , the three stood up .
geron and bearl clasped hands .
it is good to have you back , geron .
we thought you were dead . ''
a serious frown crossed geron 's face .
there were many times i thought i would die , bearl .
it was a close thing . ''
his eyes moved to marial .
what has happened , bearl ?
lunace said that many things had happened . ''
bearl 's face clouded .
many things have happened , geron .
not many of them good , i fear . ''
then his face brightened .
let us save that for tomorrow , geron .
you have come back to us , bearing a hart .
let us roast the meat , drink what wine we have and enjoy the night .
there is plenty of time tomorrow to exchange stories . ''
i agree , brother . ''
so the night passed , and the filled it with food , wine and many songs .
it was as all happy reunions should be .
bearl stood and cast his eyes over the countryside .
he , marial and geron had retired to the top of the mountain to consult after the morning 's repast .
bearl recounted the events since their parting .
the full impact of their situation impressed upon geron , who then told bearl his story .
he told bearl about the site the found .
bearl paced , his hands clasped behind his back .
the place we sought , then , was always just around the bend . ''
yes , bearl .
we must have missed it in the fog that morning the storms swept across our path . ''
pulling his collar up to guard against the chill north wind , bearl turned to geron and asked , everything we require is there ? ''
everything is there , bearl .
there are fields close by .
they are overgrown but we could reclaim them quickly .
the soil is rich and good .
the forests above the village are thick with game .
we saw horses running wild along the river and goats in the mountains .
a hill rises above the village .
we could build a stockade there as a defense against these raiders .
the ruined city could provide us with many things we need .
it is all there , bearl . ''
what about these hunters ?
how much of a threat are they ? ''
the band which took us was small , around twenty five men .
we can withstand them .
we might even overcome them .
we have kept our soldiers well trained .
these men are not soldiers .
they are not a match for us . ''
what about this creature who holds this whole world in thrall ? ''
we can establish sanctuaries in the forests and maintain a system of warning posts to warn us of his approach .
when the warning comes , the people can flee . ''
bearl again turned to look out over the countryside .
that seems a good plan , geron .
i think we should begin the move as soon as possible . ''
i agree , bearl .
we can not stay here .
the village near the river here is not defensible .
it will be hard to salvage these fields here as they have become overgrown .
we have limited resources here . ''
we should first move the boats .
we have four left to us . ''
moving them overland would be tough , bearl . ''
that is why i think we should sail them to this river you speak of by sea . ''
winter is coming , bearl .
the sea is restless . ''
yes , but the boats could move there in a couple of days by water .
it would take weeks to move them overland . ''
that is true , bearl .
we could have a party waiting there when they arrive .
we could cross the river in force and begin building the stockade and preparing cottages for more arrivals . ''
bearl nodded .
we can move in stages .
by spring , we can have the fields ready to plant.
if we can capture some of those horses which run wild , it would make some of the work easier . ''
i think we can make this work , geron .
maybe it is not the paradise we sought , but it is a solution to our problems . ''
if we can survive a few years and build up our numbers , maybe we can build another ship and return to our homeland . ''
by now the barbarians should have succumbed to the plaque . ''
marial had been silent , listening to her brothers lay their plans .
at this she spoke up , what if they have not succumbed ?
we would be helpless against them .
there would only be our one ship and a few hundred of us against their thousands .
i think we should focus on building our homes here , bearl . ''
what of that creature , marial .
the hunters we can deal with .
however , the beast is too strong .
look at what he has done to this land . ''
marial tossed her head .
something will come up , brothers , i know it will .
we will find a way to defeat this beast .
we will have our paradise , yet . ''
bearl smiled .
you are always the hopeful one , marial .
perhaps you are right .
it seems our fate has always been to hold on , to persist .
the calamities we have seen could have wiped us out at any point , but still we are here .
we are alive . ''
with life , there is hope , brothers . ''
with that , the three descended back down to the hunting cabin .
their plans made , it remained only to implement them .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents abduction of marial the evening sun stood low in the west , painting the clouds in various hues of lavender , orange and yellow .
voices of people returning from their tasks in the fields wafted across his ears .
they were lighting the evening cooking fires , and the smoke of roasting meats spiced the air with a wonderful blend of fragrances .
from his perch in the west tower , bearl gazed , his eyes filled with pleasure , at the pastoral scene before him .
we have made a lot of progress .
his eyes moved to his companion , seated on a wooden bench nearby , drinking from a steaming cup of spiced tea .
marial took a sip of the beverage and returned his glance .
indeed , we have .
we have cleared the fields and the crops are looking good , even if they are a bit late .
bearl turned his eyes to the west fields .
they should still make a good crop .
the ground here is fertile , and in this valley the river may protect us from early frosts .
marial stood and joined bearl .
she pointed to a fenced area at the edge of the village .
it was fortunate that we found some wild horses roaming nearby .
we will have the young foals trained in a few weeks .
we will have horses again .
we will have cattle for meat and sheep for wool as well .
many animals have been left to fend for themselves in the wild .
but we have still found no people .
there are signs all around .
but we have been too busy building defenses and clearing fields and hunting to explore much .
marials eyes scanned the forested heights above their valley .
it is a spooky feeling , sometimes , bearl .
i feel that someone watches us all the time .
i have felt that too , marial .
i think we all do .
is the stockade strong enough to protect us ?
it will shield us from assault by people , yes .
we have found more weapons in that ruined city and have stockpiled many in the armory .
i wasnt speaking of people , bearl .
what about that creature ?
we have been here many months , marial .
we have not seen him , or seen any signs of him .
i know that bearl .
but you have not answered my question .
bearl smiled as his eyes met hers .
i can not hide anything from my sister , i see .
her eyes sparkled back at him .
no , you can not , king bearl .
i feel your concern .
the truth is i dont think so .
that creature conjured up a storm which could have destroyed our ship had we not been fortunate .
i am sure he could destroy our wooden walls quite easily , if he chose .
what if he comes ?
he destroyed this land , and scattered the people who live here .
if he comes , we will deal with it the best we can , marial .
we have overcome many obstacles so far .
we still live , and we are flourishing .
we have found caves in the mountains behind us to serve as sanctuaries and have established watch posts around to warn us of any movement of this creature , or these hunters .
his eyes returned to the small village below , now darkening in the failing light .
we should return to our cottage , bearl .
geron will be wondering if we fell off the edge of the world .
sometimes , it feels like we have , said bearl .
turson and garish lay concealed in the forest above the ruined city of cleery .
who do you think they are ?
garish shook his head .
i dont know .
there are not many of them , observed turson .
but they are careful .
they bear arms and have chosen an excellent spot for a base .
turson nodded .
they have built a stockade .
that will help them against the raiders .
but gwaum , if he comes , will destroy it in an instant .
what do you think we should do ?
garish shifted position , rising to his haunches .
watch them and see what they are doing .
they obviously know little of gwaum , or his habits , or they would not set their camp up in such an obvious place .
they also know little of the raiders .
where do you think they have come from ?
i do not know .
there are none like them left in island world .
then they have come from beyond the sea .
turson glanced at garish .
there is no beyond the sea .
the sea ends in a pit of dragons .
everyone knows that .
garish smiled .
that is what everyone believes .
however , once , a long time ago , a storm blew one of our fleets off course .
we saw , in the distance , another land .
why did you not go there ?
we were low on provisions .
we sailed back .
we were lucky to return .
it was only a chance sighting of the white rock that we finally got back here .
if that is true , maybe these people are from that land .
maybe they saw the white rock and came here .
but why are there so few ?
there are not even three hundred people in that group .
and they have no ship .
maybe they got caught in a storm , like you .
maybe their ships got lost .
if they have come from that other land , they had best go back .
here they will find only pain and disaster .
turson continued to watch , as the rock wall which would enclose the group grew larger .
maybe they are fleeing pain and disaster .
what else would cause them to sail so far ?
garish stood .
i think we should return to our village .
from across the river , another group watched bearl and his group .
this one was not as curious as it was wrathful .
gwaum will not like that settlement , said nath , as he glanced at his brother .
curn said , no , he will not .
but we do not have time to deal with them now .
he turned to look behind him .
another group of people , hands bound behind them , and their necks connected with ropes , awaited transfer to gwaums new village of terror .
they had thirty people .
these were getting harder and harder to find , as gwaums depredations cut into the population , and the remainder became more adept at hiding from the raiders .
these will still be here when we return .
gwaum will want to see the fort , before he destroys it .
gwaum no longer hunts .
he leaves that to us .
he spends his time wandering in that forsaken land of his .
when he does come here , he searches and hunts little .
that will change when we report this new settlement , with its strong walls and foolish people .
he may want us to take care of it ourselves .
nath studied again the wooden palisade .
they are too strong for us .
we do not have the arms to assail them .
there will be time to worry about that later .
lets get this fresh batch of meat back to the compound .
this will please gwaum .
nat turned and looked over the prisoners .
i have to agree .
i want to get back to firn and dirson .
and i can not wait to get back to dellum , tun and little jara .
at that , nath cracked his whip , and the man who was to lead the sad procession flinched under the cruel tip .
blood trickled from the wound .
nate pushed the man , who almost fell .
move along .
no time for dawdling .
the procession began moving , driven by more lashes and cursing .
when darkness overtook the land , they were on the road of terror , well on their way to a terrible fate .
autumn was busy painting the trees with bright colors .
a deep blue sky , punctuated by fluffy white clouds , hung over the land .
marial stood , her hands grasping the top rail of the fence .
she was studying the dark brown mare which she had been training .
she had ridden him in the confines of the corral .
she longed to ride him , dark hair streaming free in the wind , along the road which lined the nearby river .
she glanced at the stockade .
bearl and geron were busy .
they were harvesting the first of the crops and they were helping stow it in one of the freshly constructed granaries near the wall .
her eyes returned to the mare .
she held out her hand and nickered .
the horse whinnied and ran to her .
she gave it a fresh carrot , and the horse took it from her hand .
she ran her hand along its strong neck .
what would it hurt ?
she stepped up on the rail and swung easily up on the horses back .
she rode to the gate , dismounted and opened it .
she remounted and rode easily down the lane to the road .
guiding the horse with gentle nudges of her hands , she urged the horse into a gallop .
elation filled her as she sped along .
it happened quickly .
a rope , stretched across the rode , suddenly became taut .
the horse , striking the rope , stumbled and fell .
the force of the fall propelled marial sideways from her horse .
she rolled and lay still .
shouts emanated from the brushy growth along the road .
she looked up to find herself surrounded by men .
a man pulled her to her feet and bound her hands .
this is a fine one , one man said as he ran his hands along her cheek .
the first one from that town , and the last one we need for our string , said another .
tie her and lets be off before that rabble in the town misses her .
next they fastened a rope around her neck and in moments she was drug down the road , further from her village .
she closed her eyes in despair .
where was she going ?
who were these nasty men ?
were they the same ones that had captured geron ?
she had a sinking feeling she would soon find out the answer to all of her questions .
she felt that she would not like the answers .
turson , his son , senn , and senns twin sister senneel watched from the heights above the village .
it was early fall , and the three had spent most of the summer observing this new people .
it had been many summers since turson and sali had escaped gwaum .
sali had borne them five children , and senn and senneel were the oldest .
now in their mid twenties , neither had married .
they told turson that they didnt want to marry .
they would not bring children into a world where they had to fear every minute that gwaum would snatch them to assuage his unending hunger .
however , turson noted the interest which senn paid a certain young woman in this village they were watching .
slim and dark haired , the woman moved with a confident air that bespoke royalty .
she appeared to be in her early thirties .
he had stolen close enough to hear her talk to the men .
he could not understand their words , but understood enough to know her name was marial .
he noted that senneel seemed to follow closely with her eyes the young man who bore a leader 's bearing .
on this afternoon , they watched as marial inspected the horses in the corral at the edge of the village .
senn watched as the she lovingly ran her hand along the young horses neck .
she is going to ride that horse , said senn as the woman mounted the horse .
they watched as she opened the gate .
she rode down the lane past the village and on the road .
from their perch , they had a clear view of the village and the road along the river .
turson became aware that there were other watchers .
he pointed to a clump of brush which lined the road .
she rides into danger .
senn stood up .
there were raiders on the road and they had evidently seen the young woman riding towards them .
his eye fell upon a lookout perched high in a tree .
this man must have seen her coming and signaled the others .
horror grated his soul as he watched .
the raiders stretched a rope across the road and concealed themselves in the underbrush along the road .
helpless , he saw the horse trip over the road .
the raiders had captured the woman .
the three exchanged glances .
it is time to reveal ourselves to the villagers , said turson .
if they hurry , they can get a rescue party together and attack the raiders .
together the three ran down the slope and into the village .
they heard a cry of alarm .
in a moment men with bows and swords surrounded them .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents contact for a period of months things were quiet in the area around nerza 's cottage .
the raids continued , but they were in the north , in the forests surrounding the road of terror .
or the raiders ranged out into the other fallen realms of island world .
arii paced in the garden behind nerzas cottage .
after the rite of initiation , he felt restless .
his mind dwelt on his visits to cirile , and the developments in the valley below ferauns cottage .
the cottages around her , which people had started to return to since the defeat of gwaum .
their fear of the raiders , whose exploits filtered into uneasy ears , caused the people to take to the forests once again .
he and nerza had implored the women to leave the cottage and come to stay with nerza and arii .
however , feraun was as reluctant to leave her home , as nerza was to leave his .
his mind then wandered to his mysterious rescuers .
feraun had said that they said only that they were those who returned . ''
returned from where ?
were these people the ones that nerza said escaped gwaum almost twenty years ago ?
if so , where were they hiding ?
arii thought about the road beyond the ruined town of jarna , and the events that had occurred there .
a band of strangers had come into the valley from some unknown place .
they built a stockade , repaired some of the old cottages and built some new ones .
these people , whoever they were , had come to stay .
arii had stolen close enough for him to hear their language many times .
it was strange to his ears .
it was not any of the lesser languages of island world .
nor was it the language of napoli .
nerza 's call him from the door of the cottage interrupted his thoughts .
he went in to find his uncle sitting at the wooden table on which they took their meals .
a crystal , cut in the shape of a crescent moon , lay in the center of the table .
what is that , uncle ?
nerza reached out his hand and touched the crystal .
it is a treasure i had forgotten i had .
it has lain many years in a bag in my chest .
i happened to remember it this morning and got it out .
what does it do ?
it is the crystal of tongues , arii .
we use it to converse with people who speak different languages .
ariis eyes met nerzas eyes .
you intend to meet with these strangers .
the time will come when we will have to .
how come you have never brought this out before ?
this crystal of tongues has not been necessary on island world for many , many years .
napoli was the dominant kingdom and her language became the language of commerce .
native tongues have survived within our borders .
but inhabitants of all the nations of island world all learned the napoli language to use to converse among the nations .
these strangers do not speak any of our languages , so we can use this stone to converse with them ?
nerza nodded .
yes , but first i must remember how to use it .
he closed his eyes and placed both hands on the crystal .
he caressed it with his fingers .
he allowed the magic of the stone to enter his hands .
he studied the nuances of the spells it contained .
finally , he withdrew his hands .
it is quite simple , arii .
one places the crystal against the throat .
if you speak your name and then hand it to the person you wish to converse they must do the same .
the two may then converse .
do they have to continue to hold it to talk ?
no , arii .
after the two people have joined with the crystal , they can speak to each other in their own tongues .
each will understand what the other is saying .
each may then understand that language , no matter who speaks it .
then we can use this stone to converse with them ?
we may if the right conditions present themselves .
what are those conditions , uncle nerza ?
a crisis must arise which compels the parties to an overwhelming desire to communicate .
so we must wait for something to happen ?
that is correct , arii .
we must wait for something to happen . ''
it feels , uncle nerza , like we we 've waited an eternity already .
nerza stood and walked to the window .
arii noted the limp was lessening , but had not disappeared .
i do not think we will be waiting long , arii .
i feel events beginning to unfold .
bearl walked along the base of the stockade , inspecting the new breastwork system .
the progress of the construction pleased him .
he glanced up and looked towards the lane that led to the main road .
he watched as he saw marial , astride the horse she was training .
a feeling of alarm rose in him as he saw her enter the road and turn left , towards the unexplored area north of their settlement .
his headstrong sister was pressing into danger .
he could feel it .
he glanced towards the corral where they kept the horses .
he , geron , and a couple of the others were training some of the horses to ride .
less than half a dozen horses were ready .
he glanced at geron , who was down inside the breastwork and had not seen marial .
geron , marial has ridden that horse off down the rode .
i am going to get whitefeet , and go get her back .
geron stood and glanced at the road .
she knows better than to go off on her own .
bearl began walking towards the corral .
she indeed does know better .
i will return soon .
cries of surprise and alarm met his ears .
he looked down at the lane to see two men and a woman , strangers to his eyes , standing in the middle of it .
a circle of his men surrounded them , swords at the ready .
he glanced at geron .
what is this ?
i dont know .
together they ran towards the melee .
bearl pushed his way through his soldiers and approached the three people , two men and a woman .
his eyes lit on the woman .
for a moment , the two peered into each others souls .
hold your arrows do not harm them until i get a chance to question them , he said .
he looked at the older man .
who are you and what do you want ? ''
marial , the younger of the two said , as he looked at bearl .
marial , bearl repeated .
what has happened to marial ?
the younger man turned towards the woman .
he pulled her arms behind her , and made motions of binding them .
then he stood back and whipped his hand back and forth , simulating the actions of a lash .
someone has captured marial ?
bearls eyes flashed .
where is she ?
all three men pointed towards the road , in the direction in which marial had been riding .
how many are there ?
bearls question fell upon ears that did not understand the question .
he held up his hand and held up one finger , followed by extending the rest , one at a time .
a flash of understanding crossed his eyes .
he held up his hand and extended all five fingers .
he clasped his fist , and then extended the fingers again .
three more times he did this , then dropped his hand by his side .
twenty five , he said to geron .
we must move fast , bearl , before they get away .
bearl shouted , calling the men to arms .
in a short time , they had assembled almost fifty men .
bearl moved along the line , explaining the situation .
we think there are twenty five of them .
they have my sister , marial .
lets go .
he took off on a fast run .
he could hear the men behind him , their feet thumping on the dusty surface of the road .
he could see their visitors loping along beside him .
bearl noted that these men carried swords .
he hoped they knew how to use them .
they passed the rope that the raiders stretched across the road .
the horse grazed along the road , and ran off in alarm as the soldiers ran by .
in a short time , bearl could see on the road ahead of them a loosely organized group of men carrying swords .
he counted about twelve of them .
as they neared , he could see a long line of people , their hands bound behind them and their necks connected by a rope .
he saw marial , the last one in the line .
the noise they were making as they ran along the road caught guards attention at the rear of the line of prisoners .
two of the men turned their heads and saw the approaching column of bearls men .
those of you on the left go left , bearl said .
those on the right , go right .
surround them .
the men guarding the column cried out and withdrew their swords .
bearl could see that these men untrained as soldiers .
they formed no defensive line , just stood their ground and awaited the attack .
the battle was short lived .
soon twelve men lay , dead or dying , in the road and bearls soldiers ran ahead to get the men at the front of the column .
these , seeing what happened to their fellows , took to flight .
bearls men managed to capture ten of them .
two of the men crashed off into the underbrush and eluded pursuit .
free the captives , bearl commanded .
his men moved among them , using their daggers to cut the ropes that bound them .
bearl , geron .
i hoped you would come , but was afraid you wouldnt , marial said as she hugged each of her brothers in turn .
you should not have gone off alone , said bearl .
i was only going to go a short distance , she said .
we have seen no one in all our months here .
i thought it was safe .
it is not safe , said bearl .
if not for those three , he pointed at turson , senneel and senn , we might not have found you .
who are they ?
marial glanced at the three .
here eyes lingered on senn .
he appeared younger than she did , but there was something in the way he looked at her .
she wondered if he had a mate .
bearl 's voice brought her back to reality .
that we do not know .
they came rushing into our camp .
they speak a strange language which we do not understand .
how did they manage to tell you that they captured me ?
bearl glanced at senn .
that man knew your name , he said , pointing at the young man .
marial looked at him .
how did he know my name ?
i do n't know .
they came into the camp and he said your name .
that is all i know .
she looked again at senn , who was gazing at her .
she felt warm and her heart quickened .
geron advanced towards bearl .
what should we do with these ?
with his hand , he pointed to the former captives .
bearl walked among them , studying them .
many look as though they have not eaten for days .
most have cuts and other hurts .
we will take them back to the village and tend their needs .
maybe we can learn somewhat of their speech .
what of those ?
geron looked at the ten men , their hands bound behind them , seated on the ground at the center of a circle of bearls soldiers .
we will bring them back , too .
bind their eyes , so they can not see the extent or nature of our fortifications .
what of the dead ?
bearl glanced at the dead guards , lying in the road .
they treated their prisoners like animals .
let the animals tend them .
they will feed well .
geron studied the faces of the prisoners .
i do not know any of the living or the dead .
there must be more than one group of these hunters .
while bearl and his companions watched the hunters , turson nudged senn .
he motioned with a nod of his head .
the three slipped away into the forest .
marial glanced all around her .
what happened to those who warned you about my capture ? ''
they seem to have melted into the forest , '' said geron .
i did not get a chance to thank them , '' marial said .
i do n't think we have seen the last of them , '' said bearl .
i feel something in the air .
like a storm approaching . ''
geron glanced sidelong at his brother .
what sort of storm ? ''
i do not know , geron .
it is just a feeling . ''
bearl said no more , but a cloud of uneasiness crept over his soul .
the women of the village were busy the rest of the afternoon , preparing food and tending wounds .
as night fell , bearl and marial walked among them as they sat in the center of the stockade .
marial asked , what do you think those men were going to do with these people ?
that i do not know , said bearl .
whatever fate awaited them , and you , was an evil one .
geron said he did not recognize any of them .
i feel though that there is a connection between these groups .
do you think they have anything to do with that creature ?
bearl shrugged .
again , i do not know .
geron feels that they do from what he could understand of their talk when they held him prisoner .
a cry from one of the guardhouses in turned bearls head .
he glanced at the soldier , a question in his eyes .
there are people approaching us , sire .
are they the same ones who were here earlier ? ''
three of them are , sire .
it is the two men and the woman .
an old man who walks with a limp accompanies them . ''
let them in , said bearl after a brief pause .
for so many years they had seen no one from this world and now they seemed to drop from the sky .
he watched as the doors to the stockade opened .
the party entered .
one of the men , the young one , faced bearl and bowed .
he placed a crescent shaped crystal on the ground .
he turned and helped the older wizard to sit cross legged on the ground .
the others remained standing .
the old wizard placed the crystal against his throat nerza , '' he said as he pointed to himself .
he looked at bearl and handed the crystal to him .
bearl understood what he was to do .
he placed the crystal against his throat .
bearl , '' he said .
then he gave the crystal back to the old man .
his eyes looked into those of the older wizard .
the old man spoke .
my name is nerza .
you are newcomers to our world .
there is much i have to tell you .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents ariis vision turson , senneel and senn returned to the forests after their encounter with the newcomers .
gwaum , if he is still alive , will not like what happened , '' said senn .
no , he will not , '' said turson .
and i feel that he is still alive .
these raiders are much too active . ''
that young wizard we rescued from the nixes has been frequenting these forests a lot .
he too watches these people . ''
it is the same young wizard which bested gwaum . ''
senn glanced upwards towards the road that overlooked the valley .
he has been visiting the girl who lives in that enchanted cottage . ''
turson nodded .
he must be a powerful wizard , to have bested gwaum the way he did . ''
i have tracked him back to where he lives .
it is another broken down cottage that appears deserted . ''
a smile crossed turson 's face .
i daresay that cottage is not as broken down as it seems .
it , like the healers cottage , is under some sort of spell . ''
two of those raiders escaped , father . ''
they will go back to gwaum .
they will tell him what happened and he will come here to avenge the death of his slaves . ''
gwaum will kill these people and destroy the countryside .
it is possible that he will even find our sanctuary up in the hills , father . ''
turson sat on a log and cradled his chin in his hands .
he appeared lost in thought .
i think , son , that it is time for us to make our acquaintance with that wizard . ''
surprise crossed senn 's face .
you wish to reveal our existence , father ? ''
i see no other choice .
gwaum will come .
the wizard was powerful enough to stop him the last time .
perhaps he can do it again . ''
senn sat down upon his haunches and looked at his father 's face .
has it come to that , father ?
is the situation that serious ? ''
turson nodded .
gwaum will not take this easily .
they defeated his raiders and many died .
he will not like this upstart settlement .
he will feel it is challenging his supremacy .
he will come , and he will be angry . ''
then we should go , father .
we must alert this wizard to what has happened .
we must hope that he knows what to do . ''
arii could see nerza with a boy on his lap .
nerza was teaching the lad , giving him the gift of magic .
he felt love for the child , but could not fathom why .
the form of a young woman appeared .
he could not see her face , but he knew who she was .
the scene faded and he found himself drifting away .
he found himself in a faraway land .
the land was green , and the air was sweet .
he wandered along a river filled with sparkling water .
he turned .
in the distance , he saw a mountain capped with a white rock .
the white rock .
this then was napoli .
napoli , not as it was , but as it could be , fresh and green and filled with promise .
he could feel the sorrow the land felt , over its long domination by evil .
however , there was also hope .
he could feel it .
he smelled it , as it filled the air with its wonderful fragrance .
he felt himself drawn to the mountain with the white rock .
his feet left the ground and he soared through the air .
he looked down on the rock .
he saw himself there .
terror filled him .
gwaum was there , too .
they were facing off .
arii felt himself battling the monster .
gwaum was winning .
arii felt gwaum driving him back .
the creature was too powerful .
he had learned to draw upon the power of those imprisoned inside him .
gwaum advanced towards him .
his hand extended .
no .
the monster would not consume arii .
he would not fulfill the needs of the monster .
he would not be the agent that transformed him into an unstoppable force .
better to jump over the precipice behind him .
better to die , than become a horrible part of that creature .
arii stepped back .
he felt the edge of the cliff with his foot .
then a figure emerged from hiding .
arii awoke .
it was morning .
his breath came in heavy gasps .
sweat covered him and he could feel the rapid beating of his own heart .
fear consumed him .
gwaum was still alive .
it was a fear that had haunted him but he had always suppressed .
this vision was too strong for it to be wrong .
no , the monster still lived .
from the vision , arii knew that he must confront this terrible monster alone .
nerza would not be able to help him .
he pried the last scene from his memory .
there would be someone to help him .
he did not know whom .
he thought of the land below the mountain .
restoring napoli was possible .
he could do it .
he shuddered to think of the terrible cost .
the price he would pay would be steep .
success , or failure , it was all the same .
he , arii , would bear the burden .
that burden would be great .
the garden was already an ancient garden .
the soil kept alive by generous additions of horse manure , compost and an occasional sprinkling of wood ashes .
the musky smell of the rich earth caressed ariis nose as he dug , unearthing the nutritious roots concealed within it .
he felt the moist , smooth white roots as he put them in the basket .
the sun was past its high point of the day , dropping away to the west , and its daily rest .
arii wondered how many roots this garden had produced , how many people had drawn sustenance from it richness .
he glanced at the apple tree that spread over the yard .
the herb 's fragrance , which grew in the various chinks and nooks around the garden , hosted legions of bees .
the sound of their buzzing filled the summer afternoon with a symphony of sound .
butterflies flitted and mated above the flowers , while others gathered nectar from the flowers .
a pounding on the door shattered ariis reverie .
a few moments later nerzas face appeared as he stuck it out of the rear door of the cottage .
arii , come to me now .
the event we have waited for , i fear , has happened .
arii picked up the basket and hurried into the cottage .
nerza stood facing two men who were sweating and out of breath .
as he studied their faces , memory returned .
you are the men who pulled me from the river . ''
the older man extended his had , clasping arii 's .
my name is turson .
this is my son , senn and my daughter , senn 's twin sister , senneel .
yes , we did rescue you .
you were still barely conscience .
those nixes were about to harm you . ''
arii 's eyes turned hard .
the nixes would not have harmed me .
they are my friends . ''
astonishment swept across the man 's face .
friends , eh .
i did n't know that nixes and men could be friends . ''
it is possible for nixes and men to possess friendship , yes . ''
nerza interrupted , enough about nixes for now , arii .
these men are the ones that returned from gwaum 's land .
these are the people for whom i have searched but never found . ''
arii glanced at turson and said , tell him what happened .
senn glanced at arii .
sit , said arii .
then tell your tale .
senn sat down , withdrew a cloth from his belt and wiped the sweat from his brow and eyes .
he took a long pull on the cup of water that arii had sat before him .
it was the raiders .
they made their first raid here in months .
they had about thirty captives .
one of their men climbed a tree for one last look about .
he saw a woman from the new settlement that you have watched .
she was riding on a horse galloping in their direction .
they hid in the bushes , stretched a rope across the road and waited .
the womans horse hit the rope , stumbled and fell .
the raiders grabbed her and tied her up with the rest of the captives .
we then ran back to the new settlement and managed to tell them what happened .
nerza looked at senn , his eyes razor sharp .
how did you do that ?
they speak a language strange to us .
senn returned the glance .
i have been watching her for months .
her name is marial .
i only mentioned her name , and made motions of them capturing and binding her .
ariis voice was taut with his question , what happened next ?
these men are men of action .
they gathered an expedition together and went after the raiders .
it did not take them long for them to overtake them as the prisoners they had taken slowed them down .
they had no reason to hurry as no one has opposed them before .
so there was a battle ?
nerza leaned forward with the question .
yes , there was a battle , if you can call it that .
these new men are trained warriors and the raiders are an undisciplined horde .
the men from the settlement killed the raiders and freed the prisoners .
nerza raised his brow .
did they kill them all ?
no .
two of the raiders escaped into the underbrush and got away .
the newcomers captured the rest .
nerza glanced at arii .
this is indeed news , arii .
it is a great bit of news , uncle .
the strangers destroyed the raiding party .
their depredations will end .
arii 's face did not reflect the happiness of the tidings .
nerza glanced at his nephew .
you do not appear as happy as this news warrants . ''
i do not think gwaum is dead , uncle nerza . ''
nerza 's eyes did not reflect surprise .
what makes you say that , arii ? ''
arii glanced first at nerza , then at the two guests who sat at the table with them .
turson leaned forward .
he lowered his voice and asked , are we sure that gwaum is dead ? ''
arii sat back in his chair and clasped his hands in front of him .
i hoped that he was .
last night i had a vision of him .
i fear he still lives . ''
nerza shook his head .
i never really believed he was dead .
i hoped , but did not believe . ''
i think all of us hoped , '' said turson .
nerza rubbed his chin .
his thoughts came to life with his words , if he still lives , the survivors will carry word of their defeat back to gwaum .
gwaum will not like it that they have destroyed his raiding party .
he will come .
that is not good , uncle .
if he comes here , he will sense us .
the battle between him and us will happen here , in this valley .
arii walked to the window that overlooked the garden .
he stood there , not speaking for several minutes .
then he turned to nerza .
i must go to him .
i must travel to the land he dwells in and do battle there .
nerza protested .
no , arii .
i can not travel with you .
you will do battle with gwaum alone if you go .
you can not win this battle .
it must be so , uncle nerza .
a battle here will devastate this land and place all who dwell here in peril .
no , i must go there .
nerza stood and faced his nephew .
arii , we can plan this together .
we can defeat this creature .
we have faced him once .
arii looked at his uncle .
his voice was low and gentle .
uncle nerza , you were strong then .
your powers were overwhelming .
now , you are hurt .
your powers have declined .
nerzas face fell .
he sat down again .
you are right , arii .
i am but a shadow of my former self .
i will be more of a hindrance to you than a help .
arii walked over to his uncle .
he placed his hands on his shoulders .
uncle nerza , always you have been my mentor and teacher .
you have taught me everything i know .
but now it is time for me to put what you taught me to use .
nerza raised his head , their eyes met .
nerza saw in those eyes a power that was greater than any he , nerza , ever had .
maybe that force he had helped unleash so many years ago did live in the body of his nephew .
there was no way to know .
perhaps he would never know .
maybe you are right , arii .
maybe you must battle him alone .
arii stepped back and returned to the window .
i had a dream , uncle , a vision .
i saw the land of napoli not as it is now , a vast wasteland of red .
i saw a fair land , green , fresh , and beautiful .
the fragrance of the flowers and sweet waters filled the air .
he turned to nerza .
the vision foretold my success , uncle .
if the creature had defeated me , the land would not be thus .
how do you know that this vision that you had was of a time long past instead a time in the future ?
a time before there was people , or gwaum ?
i saw myself in battle , uncle .
i was in battle with gwaum .
i saw ... . arii stopped .
he knew what he saw .
he did not know the end of the battle .
what , arii ?
what did you see ?
i was in battle .
gwaum was defeating me , driving me back towards a precipice .
but there was another there .
did you overcome gwaum , arii ?
did you defeat the monster ?
arii faced his uncle .
i dont know , uncle nerza .
i did not see the end .
i awoke before it was over .
you can not do this thing , arii .
it is much too dangerous .
there is danger in whatever i choose to do , or not to do , uncle .
if i do not go to him , gwaum will come here .
i will go and meet whatever my fate is .
i can not stop you , and i can not go with you , arii .
i can but give you my blessing and hope for your success .
that is all i can ask of you uncle .
nerza fell silent .
he regarded his sisters son .
arii spoke again .
uncle , whatever my fate , i want you to know that i love you like the parents i never had .
you took me in and succored me .
you taught me and supported me .
you are not just my father , but my mother as well .
whatever i do , it is because you taught me well .
my success is your success , uncle .
remember that .
thank you , arii .
you will always be the son i never had .
arii began gathering his things .
there was more to the vision , nerza .
you still have an important role to play .
what this role is exactly , i can not say .
but you still have much to give .
when will you leave , arii ?
i mean to leave immediately .
the sooner i begin this task , the sooner i get through it .
then soon we will say farewell .
arii looked at nerza .
when you see cirile , i want you to tell her that i love her .
i want to be with her forever .
tell her that when this is over , if it is my fate , i will return to her .
we will go to that fair land and dwell there , forever .
i will tell her that , arii .
she will be waiting for you , i am sure .
arii threw the knapsack containing food and water over his shoulder .
he picked up his staff .
he walked to his uncle and they embraced .
then arii donned his hat and walked out the door .
after arii left , nerza said nothing for a long time .
he thought about ariis vision .
there was something there .
then he knew .
he looked at senn .
we must go to these people you speak of .
we must visit those people who killed the raiders .
we must talk to them .
but they speak a different language , nerza .
i was barely able to make myself understood .
nerza picked up the crystal of tongues .
he put it in the leather bag that had been its home for so many years .
we will be able to talk to them , senn .
it is imperative that we do .
the fate of island world depends on it .
with that , he tied the bag to his waist , and limped towards the door .
senn , turson and senneel followed and soon they were walking down the road towards the settlement of the strangers .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents arii goes into danger nerza , senn , turson and senneel approached the stockade .
they heard the voice of the sentry on guard in the tower announce their approach .
they walked to the door and stood before it .
in a few moments , the door opened .
an armed guard stood before them .
bearl stood beside the guard , his eye once again lighting on senneel .
it is the same three who brought word of marial 's capture , '' he said .
let them pass . ''
as the guard stepped inside , nerza saw a tall , impressive looking man watching him .
he , senn and senneel followed the man as he walked into a small structure at the head of the courtyard inside the stockade .
the man sat on a chair at the end of the structure .
another , almost equally impressive man flanked him on his right , and on the left a woman so beautiful , it almost took his breath away .
he could see that senn was watching this woman .
this then was marial , the cause of the crises .
nerza walked over to the man and looked him in the eyes .
he took the pouch from his waist and removed the crystal .
a wooden table lay between them .
nerza touched the crystal to his throat and said his name .
then he laid the stone on the table .
he pointed to the woman and said , marial .
he pointed to himself and said , nerza .
nerza glanced at bearl and motioned that he should pick up the crystal .
bearl studied the crystal , and then looked at the old man in front of him .
distrust swelled within him .
this man was a wizard .
his ancestors had driven the wizards from the lion kingdom .
he looked at the man .
he could see nothing in those eyes to distrust .
bearl , he said , placing his hand on his chest .
nerza picked up the crystal .
with a glance he indicated that bearl should take it .
bearl picked up the stone , placed it on his throat , and said , bearl .
my name is nerza .
you are newcomers to our world .
there is much i have to tell you .
you can understand my words now , bearl , i believe , said nerza .
a look of wonder crossed bearls face .
i can understand you .
that is good .
we have much to talk about .
bearl indicated that the wizard should sit .
he glanced at marial and indicated that she should also perform the rite .
she and geron both touched the crystal to their throats , intoned their names and gave the crystal back to nerza who put the crystal back in the leather pouch .
bearl said to one of the women that stood behind him , bring our guests something to drink .
he looked at nerza .
are you hungry ?
nerza nodded .
just a bit of something , if you dont mind .
bring a bowl of dried fruits and nuts , also , he said to the woman .
bring some of that new wine too , please .
the woman nodded and moved off .
senns eyes fastened on marial .
she seemed free of male attachment .
senn was glad of that .
bearl looked across the table at nerza .
then his gaze flowed to senneel .
his heart quickened .
this woman was beautiful .
he banished the lapse , and returned to business .
he looked again at nerza .
now , what have we to talk about ?
nerza returned the glance .
your actions have precipitated crises , bearl .
we are in much danger because of them .
what kind of danger ?
we killed the men who were going to enslave those people .
with these words , he indicated the former captives who had gathered nearby .
they were not going to enslavement , bearl .
they were going to serve as food .
bearls eyes flashed .
food ?
food for whom ?
you come from a different land ?
bearl nodded .
he recounted , in as brief a tale as he could , the story of their flight from their homeland , their sojourn on the island , and their settlement here , on this spot .
nerza sipped at the glass of wine that the woman brought them .
it was sharp , but good .
he munched on a handful of the dried fruits and nuts .
he looked at bearl and said , you will not find your paradise here .
there is a terrible creature that dwells in this land .
he feeds on humans .
is this that huge , red creature we found in that red land to the east ?
nerza nodded .
he rules this land .
he feeds on humans , while he enslaves a few to do his bidding .
these are the ones you killed .
these raiders , as we call them , forage the forests of these sad lands searching for people to take back to his land .
he consumes them there .
it was nerzas turn to recount the history of island world , and the rise of the terrible creature gwaum .
he told of the land 's destruction and the scattering of the people .
no army could stand before him .
the only set back had been the encounter with nerza and arii .
however , they felt that they had not killed the creature , only humiliated him .
now that bearl and his men had killed them , gwaum was sure to return .
my nephew arii is a powerful wizard .
gwaum appeared to him in a vision .
in the vision he saw himself in battle with gwaum .
he has gone to battle him . ''
so your nephew , arii , has gone off to do battle with gwaum alone ?
he left earlier today .
bearl sipped at his wine , and placed the glass on the table .
your nephew sounds like a very brave man .
he is a brave man or a foolish one depending upon your point of view .
but i agree with you , i think he is quite brave .
what is it you ask of me ?
nerza looked into bearls eyes .
he saw another very brave man .
he also saw a man who would not take unnecessary risks .
there was more to arii 's vision .
it was a vision of a fair land .
it was an unoccupied land , just waiting for a people to possess it , a people who are searching for a home .
bearls eyes studied nerza .
but for this people to possess it there is a price to pay .
nerza placed both his hands on the table .
he leaned forward .
in the dream , he was being defeated by gwaum .
gwaum was on the verge of eating him .
if the creature consumes him , gwaum will have all the power he needs to become omnipotent .
if gwaum defeats and eats arii , no one can stop him . ''
if your nephew loses this fight , then all hope is lost ?
nerza shook his head .
another person appeared in the vision .
it was someone who could tip the balance in ariis favor .
this man was a warrior .
he was brave .
it was he that helped arii in his quest .
who is this person ?
nerzas eyes bored into bearl .
you , he said .
it was you who emerged .
it was you who did what needed to be done .
how do you know that i am the one ?
the question rang across the evening , reverberating against the newly born stars .
because there is no one else .
bearl sat back , and took another sip of wine .
thought filled his eyes .
he looked at the gathering darkness .
it is too late in the day to mount an expedition to follow your nephew .
darkness falls , and i will not embark upon a campaign in unfamiliar country in the night .
nerza relaxed .
he had achieved his goal .
so you will go ?
we will spend the night preparing .
we will embark at first light .
you will not need a large force , said nerza .
it will be useless against gwaum , should you encounter him .
a small , well armed force will move quickly bearl glanced at nerza .
so you seek to advise me on military matters ?
nerza shook his head .
no .
however , i know this creature and his habits .
a large force will be hard to hide , and will give you no advantage over him .
you have a need for stealth and quickness , not military might .
bearl considered the words .
i will take six men .
i will be one of those men , said geron .
bearl shook his head .
you should remain here , to take the kingship , if my mission fails .
marial is capable of leading the people , bearl .
if we fail , it will make no difference , as we will all be lost anyway .
you may need my sword .
bearl looked at his brother .
we will discuss this later .
turson had followed the conversation .
he could understand nerzas words , but not those of the strangers .
however , he knew what was happening .
i will accompany you , he said .
i have been in that country .
i know it .
i can lead you where you need to go .
bearl glanced at the man , his eyes questioning his words .
nerza translated what turson said .
bearl then nodded .
i will be happy to have him as a guide .
we had best use that crystal that you brought , so we can understand each others words .
at a signal from nerza , turson and bearl performed the rite of the crystal .
senn stepped forward .
i wish to go , also .
i want to see and end to this creature .
and who knows , i may want to live in this paradise , also .
at this his eyes wandered to marial .
her eyes met his .
bearl said , we will all retire to our homes .
tomorrow we leave and see where our roads lead .
senneel stepped forward .
she touched the crystal , and looked into bearls eyes .
he repeated the rite .
then senneel said , i go where my brother goes .
you will not leave me behind .
bearl spoke in protest , but you are a woman .
this is mans work .
i am as good as any man with bow and sword .
indeed she is , said senn .
and if you do not agree to take her , you may find out how good she is .
bearl glanced at senneel and saw strength there .
he also decided that he liked those eyes .
he also noted her hand on her sword .
you may come , he said , a smile lightening his face .
darkness became complete as the twilight faded into darkness .
turson and senn returned to their homes , now deep in the forest .
nerza went to the home of feraun and cirile .
there would be much to discuss this night .
learning to live with his disability had taken a long time for nerza .
after many weeks and months he learned to accept it .
now , watching the small coterie of men as they marched down the road and into danger , his impatience with it returned .
his nephew was in danger .
at his urging , this small company of men was following his council .
arii would confront gwaum in the next few days .
the fate of island world would be determined while he sat , helpless , with the women and children .
feraun , cirile and sali were beside him , along with others from the tiny settlement above the city .
marial was watching , also , in company with her countrymen .
her eyes were sad as she watched her brothers move down the lane and out of sight .
do you think he is all right ?
nerza glanced at cirile .
her eyes displayed her worry .
arii is a powerful wizard , cirile .
if anyone can defeat gwaum , it is he .
he must defeat him .
he must return .
he loves you , cirile .
he will return if he can .
you mean , if he lives .
if he lives , he will return .
he glanced at marial , who returned his glance .
more than one woman awaited the outcome of this foray .
marial asked , this mission you have sent my brothers on , what are their chances of success ?
nerza shrugged .
i do not know .
i only know of ariis vision .
the land was clean and fair and gwaum was not there .
this , you say , could be the paradise we seek .
as near as anyplace can be paradise .
there is still the need for work .
there will still be sickness and death .
however , it was a good land before gwaum .
it will be a good land again .
marial glanced at the now empty road .
i hope they succeed .
they must succeed .
this creature is a being of fear and death .
this land shivers with that fear .
i can feel it .
it is not just this land , marial .
even the lands across the sea are in danger .
if gwaum defeats arii and consumes him , he will become omnipotent .
and yet this arii went into that danger ?
when your brothers killed his raiders , gwaum would have come here to avenge them .
he would have sensed arii , and me .
the battle between arii and gwaum will be great .
all here would have been in peril .
even if arii won , the damage to this country would have been immense .
many would have died .
arii went there to avert that .
he is a brave man .
your brothers and my nephew are all brave men .
let us hope that bravery is enough .
with these words , marial turned and returned to the stockade .
darkness was falling .
it had been almost a week since ariis departure .
nerza was watching the northern sky .
arii and gwaum had joined in battle .
he could see it in the flashes of light in the northern sky , and the low rumbles which flowed down the valley .
the conflict had raged all day .
cirile was beside him .
he could feel her fear .
he must prevail , he must win , she said .
he must come back to me .
nerza put his arm around her .
we will soon know .
i carry his child .
the announcement came as no surprise to nerzas ears .
he looked down at her .
does he know ?
cirile shook her head .
i have not known long .
however , his child grows within me .
i have told senn .
if arii falls , he is to tell arii that his seed lives on if he can .
if he would have known , he would not have gone .
he had to go .
it is best he did not know .
this day would have come , sooner or later .
it was his fate .
nerza started to reply .
however , his words choked in his mouth .
the flashes of light stopped .
a silence descended upon island world .
it is over , said nerza .
now we wait .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents the storm begins after feeding , gwaum decided to take a walk .
the red dust swirled around his feet as he strode along .
he reached the top of a knoll and stopped .
he turned to look upon his domain .
the stone walled prison rose above the bay .
black holed windows in the guard towers gazed soullessly over the prisoners within .
his larder was full , kept well stocked by the bands of hunters that roamed island world .
he inhaled the putrid aroma that permeated the land .
it was a wonderful smell , the smell of death .
gwaum knew that under that red dust laid millions of seeds and spores .
it was the potential life of the vegetation that once existed here .
the dust would take many more years to kill this dormant life .
he knew that over time it would .
he hated the plants .
he hated the animals that roamed the forests .
he longed to destroy the entire expanse of island world .
however , to do so would destroy his food source .
that was the only reason for his toleration of those other lands across the mountains .
his food needed food .
the plants and animals there served that purpose .
he was glad that he did not have to visit that other land .
his raiders brought his food to him , allowing him to enjoy his devastated landscape .
then the other reason for his need to go there surfaced .
he needed another wizard to consume to complete his transformation to an omnipotent power .
he turned to look upon those faraway mountains .
he remembered the wizard who dwelt there .
he had hurt that wizard .
he would be weak if he still lived .
he berated himself for not going back to get this wizard .
the reason for his reluctance shamed him .
for the first time , he had known fear .
there were two of them .
the one did not have the power he needed .
working together , they had defeated him .
gwaum did not like defeat .
it had been his first defeat .
from his perch on the knoll , he had a clear view of the road that ran along the stinking river .
two dark specks were moving along that road .
it was time for one of his hunting parties to return .
if this was they , there was something wrong .
if it wasnt , then someone was invading his domain .
he strode off to investigate .
as he neared , he recognized the men as two members of the hunting band that was due back .
he entered the road and stood before the two men .
why have you come back alone ?
where is the rest of your party , and where are the captives ?
the men fell on their faces in front of him arms outspread .
we beg your pardon , master .
we are all that remain , the rest of our party are dead after an attack made upon us .
we barely escaped with our lives .
attacked ?
who attacked you ?
many months ago , we told you of those new settlers .
they have formed a colony near the sea .
they have built a stockade , planted fields and built houses .
we took a woman , one of theirs .
somehow , they heard of it .
they attacked us with an overwhelming force , killed most of the hunters and freed the captives .
gwaum leaned his head back and roared .
red dust spewed from his mouth , which , driven by the force of the wind , sandblasted the skin from his hunters bodies .
they rolled in the dust , screaming in pain .
after a few minutes , they were still .
gwaum roared again and again .
his anger spilled out in vast clouds of red dust .
when his anger abated , gwaum knew what he needed to do .
he must go to that place , that new colony , and destroy it .
it was near the abode of the wizards who defeated him .
after he made these interlopers pay for their insolence , he would hunt down these wizards and consume both of them .
he looked back towards his prison .
this would be a long expedition .
there would be plenty of food .
he had just eaten , so he would embark on his journey immediately .
he strode along the road .
the slope grew steeper as it entered the mountains .
evening was falling .
after expending the energy venting his rage , gwaum was growing tired .
he reached the top , near the troublesome white rock .
he would spend the night here , on top of the mountain .
tomorrow he would descend his road to the lands beyond .
the orange tongue of the sun was licking at the eastern sky .
gwaum awoke .
it was time for him to resume his journey .
today , the interlopers would pay for killing his hunters .
in addition , today he would find the wizard .
he would defeat him , and consume him .
as he gazed on the white rock , he remembered his vow to defeat the power in that rock .
again , that would have to wait .
there was a more important task .
it was at that moment he felt a presence .
he stiffened .
it was a wizard of the golden star , nearby .
the fool was coming to him .
in a moment , the wizard became visible .
this was not the same wizard he intended to consume .
it was the younger of the two .
he bore the marks of the wizard of the high order .
he could feel his power .
this one would do .
he stepped forward .
ho , wizard .
what do you mean invading my realm ?
the wizard stopped .
his young face was stern with resolution .
i come for you , gwaum .
i come to end your reign over this land .
a smile spread across gwaums face .
he could feel the power of this wizard .
it was strong .
he also felt the uncertainty .
that was something in his favor .
that was something he could use .
urgency hastened his steps through flynn towards the mountain .
the refugees from the battle of the raiders and the colonizers would flee straight to gwaum .
even now , they might be reporting to gwaum .
at this moment , gwaum might be climbing the road into the mountains .
by evening , he could be in the land of torne .
arii did not intend for gwaum to enter torne .
his hope was to intercept him before he entered the road of terror .
he meant to keep the battle , and the carnage it would create , within the land of napoli .
darkness fell as he entered the outskirts of flynn .
he heard , or saw , no sign of the creature .
he paused .
there were houses here that would give him shelter for the night .
he could rest , arise early , and be at the top by dawn .
he found one cottage that was cleaner and less vermin infested than the others were and bedded down for the night .
the same sun gwaum was gazing upon at the top of the mountain watched as arii made his way up the road of terror .
arising before dawn , arii breakfasted on some of the contents of his pack and began his journey .
stars flickered in the black sky , and an occasional falling star streaked across the heavens .
an oarst bird called , alone and forlorn in the distance .
arii drank in the last of the sweet smells of the mountains .
once across , he knew , the land stank with gwaum 's presence .
as he neared the top , arii became aware of a gnawing presence , the feeling he got when another wizard of the golden star was near .
gwaum .
he was near .
he could see the white rock gleaming in the morning sun as he reached the top .
it was then he saw something else .
the creature appeared suddenly , a red figure illuminated by the red sun .
gwaum flared in ariis eyes .
he stopped and pointed his staff at the creature .
fear licked at his bowels , and uncertainty invaded his mind .
here he was , facing gwaum .
he remembered his earlier victory over the creature .
however , nerza had aided that .
now , he was alone .
he remembered his vision .
the fair , sweet land unfettered by gwaum 's influence .
but , the other part invaded his thoughts also .
the white rock presented a sizable level area on its top .
on three sides , sheer cliffs opened several hundred feet above the rocks below them .
arii remembered .
gwaum was pushing him , driving him back to the edge of one of those precipices .
a stone pillar marked the trail to the top of the rock .
behind that pillar the other had hidden .
he appeared just as gwaum was forcing arii off the cliff .
however , there was no other .
arii began to doubt .
perhaps the vision was false .
it was too late for further doubt .
the confrontation had begun .
so , wizard , you have come to challenge me . ''
arii tightened his grip on his staff .
i come to do battle , gwaum .
today your hunting ends . ''
the monster drew back his head and guffawed .
the breath was foul and arii almost swooned .
your little magic spells will have no effect upon me , wizard .
i have had more powerful wizards than you for breakfast . ''
we will see , '' said arii .
a silver pulse grew around him , traveled down his staff and sped towards the creature like a white hot comet .
gwaum held out his hand .
a silvery force appeared which deflected the spell , throwing it back at arii , who blocked it with a flourish of his staff .
thus , the battle began and both the monster and the wizard were each surprised at the strength of their adversary .
each spell arii cast at gwaum he flung off and launched a counter spell back .
the young wizard found himself on the defensive , with no time to gather his strength for the spell he longed to use .
twice he felt gwaums offensive ebb , but both times he recovered .
then he strove against arii with greater force than before .
arii began to grow weary .
many hours the battle lasted .
fire stroked the sky and the deep rumbles of their combat rolled across the mountain and into the valleys .
then the moment arrived which arii had been fearful of arrived .
gwaum , frustrated at the continued stalemate , raised his head to face the sky .
a resounding roar filled the heavens .
a red vortex issued from his mouth .
it swirled and danced in the sky and then collapsed into a tight coil .
gwaum extended his arms towards arii .
it was the dreaded red storm and he flung it at arii with a terrible force .
the shock of the storm drove arii backwards towards the brink .
he steadied himself , lowering his head and leaning forward .
he extended his wand and drew a powerful shielding spell from its depths .
a parabola of force extended its protective shield around the wizard .
it deflected the stinging , dry red dust .
but the gale like force drove the wizard back and back .
he could feel the edge of the precipice behind him with the toe of his boot .
exhaustion weighed upon his soul .
the monster drove him further .
he teetered on the edge .
in a moment , he gwaum would throw him over .
he would feel the sharp embrace of the hard rocks below .
for a moment , he teetered .
gwaum took a step forward and extended his hands .
once more , he exerted his will upon the wizard who dared to defy him .
a movement behind gwaum caught his attention .
perhaps it was not too late .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents triumphant as the small group plodded along , bearl reflected upon their circumstances .
at the word of a wizard , he had met only once he was now risking the lives of some of his best men .
taking the wizards advice , he had kept the force small , settling on a dozen men .
this included the three locals , senn , senneel and turson .
his eyes scanned the landscape .
this was a good land .
it ought to have farms , mills , and inns .
the shouts and laughter of inhabitants should fill the air .
instead , there was silence .
he knew that there were people subsisting in the forests above the road .
they might be watching them as they moved along this road .
the creature had broken this land .
if the wizard were right , gwaum would soon come here to punish his people for attacking and killing his hunters .
he had learned a long time ago from the lips of his father that if you feared an enemy striking you , sometimes it is best to strike first .
he hoped that this was one of those times .
their progress was swift .
they were well past the halfway point of their journey when the sunset and they had to stop for the night .
as they ate their evening meal , turson sat down beside bearl .
he sipped at his water skin and glanced at the king .
what will we do when we get there ?
bearl shrugged .
i do not know .
this wizard friend of yours , nerza , only said that someone in hiding aided this wizard , arii in defeating the monster .
he said that i was the one in hiding .
but he didnt say where i was hiding , or what i did .
it does all sound pretty vague , said turson in agreement .
at any rate , we are in the fire now .
if nerza is right , in the next day or so arii should find gwaum .
turson shuddered .
i have been in this creature 's presence .
this wizard arii will need all his power to defeat him .
i think tomorrow 's events will answer our questions .
bearl tossed the dregs of his tea into the fire .
we should all turn in early .
the rising sun should find us already on our way .
if you feel it will come that soon , and we are to aid him , we need haste .
the camp grew quiet , and they set the watches .
the fires , tended by the watches , burned throughout the night .
the morning dawned bright and full of promise .
the orange tongue of the sun tickled the horizon .
the delightful morning did not brighten the mood of bearl as he marched along .
a low rumble of what seemed like thunder rolled across the land .
flashes of light emanated from the mountains in front of them .
bearl signaled his troop to a halt .
he studied the mountainous terrain in front of him .
turson moved up beside him .
we are almost to flynn , the mountain town i called home during better days .
the road of terror comes down from the ice mountains .
that is gwaums roadway into torne .
so we are almost there , said bearl .
and it sounds like arii and gwaum have already met .
we must hurry , said bearl .
they quickened their steps , soon entering the town .
turson led the group to the road of terror and they began their ascent .
sounds of fury from the combat of the wizard and the creature filled the air .
violent flashes of light filled the skies .
the ground shook and heaved beneath their feet .
still , the group marched on .
the sun was beginning its descent when they reached the crest of the mountain .
bearl looked on the scene , and gasped .
this was the white rock of legend , the rock that had lured him to this land .
then he stopped .
look , geron .
the white rock we saw from the sea . ''
the struggle was taking place on the white rock .
the monster had his back to bearl .
the wizard , face contorted with a mixture of fear and desperation , was driven backwards .
bearl could see the vastness of a valley behind the wizard .
he beckoned his men to hide behind a stone column that marked a path to the white rock on which the monster and the wizard struggled .
the wizard was in a terrible spot .
he was close to the precipice .
bearl watched in horror as the wizards foot found the last foothold .
beyond lay a fall through time and space .
it boded defeat for the wizard and victory for the monster .
on the rock , they could see the monster that they had seen in the harbor .
its back was to them , attention focused upon the wizard .
without a word , bearl rushed up the trail that led to the top .
he emerged to see arii , his back pressed up against the chasm .
in another instant , the monster would cast the wizard over the side .
bearl ran up behind the monster .
he drew back his sword and stabbed .
the blade penetrated the rock hard skin of the creature , and then snapped like wood .
the monster screamed in pain and turned to face his new adversary .
the distraction was all that arii needed and he drew upon what strength he had left and flung another spell at gwaum .
it struck the monster with a force mightier than the tides .
fire flashed and a violent roar arose and swept across the mountains .
gwaum howled in anger and in pain .
the force of the explosion knocked bearl off his feet .
he lay on his back , pain racking his body .
his left arm burned like fire .
with an extraordinary effort , arii extracted the last threads of strength still lingering inside him .
his face drawn and taut , his eyes focused , he endured gwaum 's efforts .
the monster turned and read the desperation in the wizards face .
he knew from the stretched muscles and glazed eyes that the wizard had reached his limits .
the man had no more to give .
with one last effort , gwaum leaned forward and rushed the wizard .
he reached for him , trying to grasp him with his powerful arms gwaum 's fingers touched arii .
in a moment , he would grasp him and consume the wizard .
gwaum would be invincible bearl , watching the monster with fear filled eyes , drew himself up to a sitting position .
his left arm dangled by his side , useless .
he pushed his body up , using his broken sword as a crutch .
he drew back his arm and flung the rest of his sword at gwaum .
the shattered blade struck gwaum , driving deep into his skin .
gwaum roared and hesitated for just an instant .
arii felt the hesitation in the fingers .
he dove under the monster 's legs flipped on his back and planted his feet on gwaum 's buttocks .
he pushed him forward with a downward thrust of his legs .
gwaum straightened up as he plunged forward and tried to stop his forward momentum .
for an instant he stood , balanced on the edge of the rock , his toes gripping trying to find a gripping point .
arii , drawing on one last reserve of strength , flicked an impelling spell at the creature .
it was a feeble spell but it was enough to knock the off balance monster over the edge .
with a terrible cry , gwaum plummeted off the white rock .
he hit the rocks below and rolled .
he managed to stop himself before he careened further down the valley .
with a bellow of rage he climbed to the top of a nearby premonitory .
as he reached the apex , arii sat up .
he had one last spell left in him .
his energy exhausted , he knew this was it .
he was drawing upon a strength that seemed beyond his own .
he pointed his wand at the monster .
he unleashed his final spell , the one he had waited to use .
gwaum 's arms were grasping the pinnacle of the rock .
he could not raise them to block the spell .
the spell flowed over the monster as he reached the top .
he stood and turned his gaze towards arii .
as gwaum fastened his single eye on him , a glaze formed over his skin .
the glaze hardened .
gwaum gave one last roar .
then he was silent .
gwaum stood still on the rock , like a statue frozen in time .
it was over .
arii had triumphed .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents the covenant bearls arm hung at his side , limp and broken .
he watched as arii collapsed to lie face up on the face of the rock .
bearl ran to him and peered down into his face .
as he watched , the face metamorphosed from a young , healthy face , to an old , stricken one .
the blue eyes focused on bearl .
you are the one , the man of my vision .
your vision was true , arii .
we have defeated the monster .
he is dead .
arii shook his head .
no , he is not dead .
he is frozen in time .
it is the same thing he can harm us no more .
arii smiled .
it was a sad smile .
he can return .
only my continued vigilance will keep him at bay .
it will be my fate to remain in this spot to contain him .
the rest of the party joined bearl .
turson gazed down on arii .
arii , you have changed .
you are no longer a young man .
the struggle with the creature has sapped my strength , turson .
i will soon die .
bearl asked , but if you die , how will you contain the creature ?
ariis eyes focused upon bearl .
your people sought a paradise , a land they can call home .
gwaum 's languishment has provided that place .
and that is what will give me the strength to contain him .
a puzzled look swept bearls eyes .
how can this be ?
your people will occupy this land and you will have your kingdom .
you will fill this kingdom with your children .
each year many of your children will reach the age of reason .
when they do , you will bring them to me , on this white rock .
on that day , their tenth birthday , i will gaze into their heart and take a small portion of their life force .
this life force will give me the strength to keep gwaum at bay .
a portion of ones life force is a considerable thing to give , said bearl .
in return , while gazing into their heart , their true talents and gifts will be visible to me .
these talents i will reveal to the children .
they will be able then to focus upon the most rewarding life work for them .
the kingdom will be strong because always everyone performs the tasks that best suits them .
together we will build a powerful kingdom , safe from the ravages of gwaum .
it seems a fair trade , to give a small part of one 's life 's force to find their dreams . ''
he bent to pick up the shards of his sword .
you need a new sword , said arii .
yes , this one tasted gwaums thick hide which has ruined it .
arii held his staff up .
he removed his wand from the hilt of the staff and thrust the staff at bearl .
he indicated that bearl should take it .
bearl took the staff .
as his hand touched it , it turned into a sword .
that sword is the symbol of our covenant , said arii .
it is the sword of a king , and any who bear it will be a king .
any child conceived while the father wears the sword will bear a claim to its power .
bearl hefted the sword , raising it above his head .
it is a fine sword , he said .
he glanced at the hilt .
it bears an emblem on the hilt .
it is the crest of your house , the house of vin .
it is the white rock of arii .
arii then took his wand and held it to his breast .
the wand turned into a golden key .
bearl reached for the key , but arii held it back from him .
the key is to remain with me .
what does it open ?
the road of terror will close behind you when you return to cleery .
it will remain closed until one returns with the key to open it .
bearl asked , who would wish to open that terrible road ?
if someone breaks the covenant and the monster awakens someone will need to return to kill gwaum .
they must return by that road , bringing the sword of vin .
this key will be the means to open the road .
will the covenant be broken , then ?
all covenants , with time , end , bearl .
this one is no different .
arii was weakening .
his eyes still burned bright , but his breath was becoming fainter , his voice weaker .
arii , said turson , you can not die .
cirile bears your child .
the child will need a father .
arii turned to turson .
i have a child ? ''
turson nodded .
she told me to tell you if you fell .
she said that your seed will live on , as will her love for you . ''
it is the child of my vision .
i did not know that it was my child .
i felt a connection to that child .
now i know why .
tell nerza that is the role my vision chose for him .
he must raise my son as his own son .
he must teach him in the ways of a wizard of the golden star .
he is to be my heir .
tell cirile my love for her will transcend my death .
here , in my new abode , i will always yearn for her .
at this , ariis eyes dimmed , and then closed .
his breath came slower and slower .
he raised his head and coughed .
his head fell back , and he was silent .
a silver mist arose from the body and swirled above it .
a fissure opened in the rock and the mist coalesced over it .
it formed into a vortex and disappeared into the fissure , followed by the golden key .
as it did , another mist arose .
to the amazement of the watchers the mist spoke , for years i have protected the white rock from gwaum .
you , arii , are the new protector and it is time for me to depart . ''
the mist dissolved into the gathering darkness .
ariis knapsack , which had fallen near the body , began to glow .
it glistened in the failing sun and changed shape .
it became a small wooden casket .
the body of arii shivered .
it disintegrated , becoming a fine , silver dust , borne on the wings of a whirlwind .
the whirlwind scooped them up and deposited them into the wooden casket .
the wind then swept the casket into the fissure , which closed with a sharp crack .
the party of men stood in the fading light upon the white rock of arii .
bearl walked to the edge of the precipice and looked out over his new land .
it did not seem the paradise promised by arii .
it was a dusty red , desolate , stinking land .
geron stood beside bearl .
it does not look like much of a paradise , bearl .
no , it doesnt , said bearl as the last rays of the sun failed .
the land disappeared in darkness .
great energies had poured into the heavens by the struggle between arii and gwaum .
as the sun set , storm clouds gathered .
rain began to pour , and the party of men found shelter in a rock overhang below the pillar that marked the beginning of the road of terror .
thunder crashed , lightning flashed , and the rains fell , an unstoppable tsunami from the heavens .
all night it rained .
never had any of the men seen a storm like that unleashed by those troubled skies that night .
in the morning , the rain abated .
a cloud parted and the newly born sun painted the eastern sky with the welcome colors of its radiance .
bearl and geron emerged from their shelter and walked out upon the white rock .
the red dust was gone , carried away by the rain swollen river .
it still bore a slight red tint as it swept away the final vestiges of the red dust .
the source of the river , at the base of the white rock , was once again clear .
it was sweeping away the filth of gwaum .
as the sun rose , and its light and warmth penetrated the bared soil , a green wave swept over the land .
millions of dormant spores and seeds burst into life .
the refreshed life 's fragrance arose , filling their nostrils with its sweet scent .
arii was right , we have inherited a paradise , said geron .
bearl watched as trees , long held captive by the power of gwaum , grew swiftly in size and grandeur .
i think , geron , that our people have found a home .
we can now return to our people , and bring them here .
with gwaum dead , all island world will prosper again , said geron .
we should first go and free the slaves , said turson .
agreed , said bearl .
you have been down that road , you must lead us .
it has been many years , and i was a captive when i last walked that road .
but it followed the river , so i should find it easily .
the men , turson in the lead , scrambled down off the white rock .
they found the trail that led down the mountain .
the trail led to the road that ran along the now clear , sparkling river .
they began the long trek to the harbor , the former seat of gwaum 's power .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents gwaums fortress all day the storm in the faraway mountains to the north raged .
the warden watched and listened to it from the prison next to the bay .
he did not like it .
gwaum , his master , had left the day before .
he was in a dour mood , and those moods were always dangerous .
near sunset , the storms in the distance ceased .
a peace settled over the land .
the warden did not like this , either .
the prisoners seemed restive , as though clutching a hope they did not have before .
he ordered the guards to be extra vigilant .
there would be no prisoner uprising in his masters absence .
then the rains came .
they poured from the dark skies .
the river rose .
the warden did not sleep .
he watched from his upper chamber window .
he saw little , heard nothing but the relentless cascade of the rain .
he turned to his bed and saw the wench that was waiting for his attentions .
in the morning , the sun would return .
the other hunting party was due back soon .
gwaum would return .
all would be well .
he disrobed and slipped into his bed .
nath watched the northeastern skies , his eyes curious at the sight .
what do you make of it ?
curn , his companion on the top of the rock outcropping , answered , i do not know .
it is a fierce storm , coming out of those mountains .
it has raged all day .
i believe it is over that white rock that marks the beginning of the road through the mountains .
i hope it abates soon , as we must pass that way tomorrow .
his eye swept their fresh group of prisoners .
gwaum would not be hungry .
he thought about his wife , waiting for him in his cottage near the prison .
he had been gone a month .
he longed for her , and the comforts she gave .
he looked forward to seeing his children .
as the sun reached the western horizon , the storm stopped .
we had best make camp , said curn .
set the watches and stake the prisoners .
nath nodded and moved off to implement the commands .
he , too , had a concubine to return to , as well as a son and a young daughter .
by tomorrow night , he should see both .
the intoxicating fragrance of the freed land made the travelers almost giddy with its exuberance .
no one impeded their journey .
the sun , its golden yellow rays fell upon the new , green growth .
the red dust was gone , and the river , now sparkling and pure , glistened under its light .
the growth of the trees and grass and flowers had been nothing short of miraculous .
it seemed the land was trying to make up for decades of lost growth in just a few days .
trees , already four inches in diameter , covered the hills .
wildflowers spread their wealth of color along the road , a welcome spring after the long winter of gwaum .
turson plodded along , gazing upon the landscape with adoring eyes .
senn , his son , walked beside him .
i would like to settle in this land , said senn .
it is much different from it was on my last visit .
then it was barren , a land of death .
now it is alive with promise .
i , too , would like to settle here , if sali would consent to it .
as he said these words , the way the river bent and certain other landmarks caught his eye .
he leaned forward and tapped the man in front of him on the shoulder .
bearl held up his hand , and the column stopped .
he looked at turson .
we are nearing the prison , he said .
bearl turned and studied the road ahead of him .
it was late in the fourth day of their trek .
with good horses they could have traveled this distance in two days .
however , they did not have horses .
we will make camp ahead , in that copse of trees .
then we will send a party on ahead to reconnoiter .
a short time later bearl and turson stood on a knoll overlooking the valley .
beyond the bend in the river , a tributary entered the river .
in the distance , they could see the outline of the bay .
the land has changed since i was here last , said turson .
the prison was near the entry to the road .
it was right on the bay .
the creature used the bay to supply fish to feed the prisoners .
water came from a spring which flowed down from the old city and near the prison .
there is no sign of a city there , just piles and piles of rubble .
gwaum destroyed it .
sali and i hid there while plotting to save the prisoners .
what do you think is our best course of action ?
turson studied the terrain before them .
after dark , we can get in without the guards seeing us .
the ones in the watchtowers watch the prisoners , not on what is going on outside the walls .
they do not have to worry about any threat .
the ones not on duty occupy themselves with food , drink and whatever women they have taken from among the prisoners .
how many guards do you think are on duty ?
when we were here , there were just a few .
i am sure that gwaum has increased their numbers after we made our escape .
he will want to ensure that doesnt happen again .
so there are now many guards ?
turson nodded .
gwaum has had many years to build up his force .
bearl thought of his own small force .
there were too many for a dozen men to take on .
what do we do after we get in ?
there was a loose stone on one of the walls .
if that stone is still intact , we can communicate with the people within .
we can find out many things which we will need to know to form a plan for killing the guards and freeing the prisoners .
that sounds like a plan , bearl said .
lets get closer while the daylight lasts and we can still see .
then we go in and see if all is as you say .
turson and bearl stood in the darkness near the wall of the prison .
as he studied the wall , turson said , they have expanded it , adding to the wall along the western and southern sections .
however , this side they have not touched .
i made a mark on the stone .
if we are lucky i shall be able to feel that mark .
they crept along , turson taking time to feel several stones as they went .
the night grew older .
finally , turson cried out in success .
i have found it .
he wriggled the stone free .
as it dropped to the earth , turson peered into the darkness within .
he cupped his hands around his mouth and in a loud whisper , asked , is anyone there ?
a face appeared in the hole .
who are you ?
friends , said turson .
gwaum will not return .
we have seen his destruction just four days ago .
was that what the storm in the mountains was all about ?
yes .
we will tell you more about that later .
we want to rescue you , but we only have a few men .
how many guards are there ?
after a brief pause , he whispered his answer , there are around fifty men .
two in each guard tower and the rest scattered about in stone cottages around the prison .
we saw those cottages and wondered at them .
do the guards still choose from among the women prisoners ?
some do .
they have chosen some women as permanent consorts .
the women choose the rewards of better food , clothing and shelter to their fate inside these walls .
turson considered the words .
he did not say he blamed these women , considering their fate otherwise .
can we trust any of these women ?
some .
do you know which , and can you communicate with them ?
yes .
how many can we trust ?
we can trust about twenty of them .
the guards usually choose these women for only one night , tossing them away like a worn shoe .
there are more women in here that they rarely choose .
the rest will betray us .
they have grown loyal to the men they serve , and in most cases have children by them .
these women will want to protect what they have .
turson glanced at bearl .
this task is much tougher than it was when sali and i escaped .
there are more guards , and these guards have families .
you have escaped ?
the question came from the hole in the wall .
yes .
i am turson .
my wife sali and i escaped from this place many years ago .
but there were not so many guards then .
there is more you should know , then .
a hunting party is due to arrive .
they have been gone over a month .
when the raiders return they will reinforce the guards .
we do not have much time , said turson .
if the hunting party gets back there will be many more men to deal with .
let me gather some of the prisoners .
the women can help us choose the cottages of guards who do not have permanent concubines .
they will also know where the armory is so we can arm ourselves .
it took some time for turson to relay all this information to bearl , who could not understand the speech of the man in the hole .
bearl considered the information relayed by the prisoner .
we had best do as he suggests , he said , finally .
it would be best to take a day to plan , but by tomorrow the hunting party may come back with more prisoners and enhance the guards numbers .
tell him to gather the ones he can gather and get them out here .
i will go back to the men who are waiting and bring them here .
bearl disappeared into the darkness .
turson spoke again into the hole , can you gather the people now ?
yes , there is a rule against conversation or travel between the prison cells after dark .
but , there are ways that we have done this in the past .
i will get the ones i can .
then do it .
turson sat down .
the wait seemed an eternity .
by morning , the task was complete .
the guards sat , bound and gagged , in the prison compound , guarded by the prisoners that they had abused .
there had not been one battle , rather a series of quiet ones .
the freed prisoner women identified the houses in which only a single guard lived .
they overwhelmed them in their cottages .
after the accomplished this , they took the other cottages one at a time .
they gathered the families of the guards and the absent hunters under the watchful eyes of the former prisoners .
only the guards in the towers were still free .
as the night faded into morning , bearl stood in the center of the prison , flanked by turson , senn and his men .
he raised his sword and glanced at turson , who began to speak .
guards in the tower , gwaum is dead .
we have freed the prisoners .
you must give way .
we have your families .
if you surrender , we will spare your lives .
if not , you will starve in your towers .
the sun edged higher in the sky .
one by one and the guards in the towers surrendered , joining their bound cohorts in the prison .
we will set up an ambush along the road , said bearl .
when that hunting party returns , we will surprise and subdue them .
turson nodded .
they chose some able bodied men from amongst the prisoners .
bearl walked the line of men with satisfaction gleaming in his eyes .
there were almost sixty armed men .
most had no training as soldiers it was true .
that did not matter .
they outnumbered the guards , who would be in two small companies , one at the front of the prisoner column , the other at the rear .
as he reviewed the small troop , he gave his instructions to turson , who relayed them to the men .
we will go up the road until we find a suitable spot for an ambush .
we will split in two groups and lay in wait .
when we sight the column approaching , i will whistle thus .
bearl stuck two fingers in his mouth and gave a single , sharp whistle .
we will wait for the first of the column to pass .
when you hear a second whistle , the second group will attack the first group of hunters .
we will attack the following group .
take care to not harm the prisoners .
at this he formed the men into a column and off they marched .
they choose a spot in the road where it curved .
a forested hill arose beside it .
this is a good spot , said turson .
the back of the column can not see the front of the column .
the surprise of our attack will be complete .
as the sun reached zenith , bearl heard the signal from his sentry .
the column was approaching .
in a few minutes , he could see them .
it was the same formation of the first group of hunters he had attacked .
it was a disorganized knot of men at the front of the column .
they had the prisoners strung in a line , tied together , followed by another group of guards .
as the first hunters went by , bearl emitted a sharp whistle .
this attracted the attention of the walking guards , who were already nervous about the changes they saw in the land .
it was plain they were completely disconcerted by the green land .
the leader of the column signaled a stop .
his eyes perused the trees and brush lining the road .
he pulled his sword and advanced .
bearl and his men waited .
silence .
the leader signaled for the column to proceed .
as the last group came into sight and lay in front of him , bearl gave the second whistle .
they rushed from their hiding places and surrounded the hunters , who drew their swords .
senn stepped forward .
we have you surrounded .
gwaum is dead .
your companions are now prisoners , held by your former prisoners .
lay down your arms and surrender and we will spare your lives .
outnumbered and surrounded , curn threw his sword down .
his men , looks of disgust on their faces , followed his lead .
it was over .
they had freed the prisoners and the last of gwaums hunting bands captured .
island world would finally be at peace .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents the monster sleeps king bearl gazed into the smiling eyes of his new bride .
senneel , radiant in her wedding dress , glowed like a jewel in the afternoon sun .
he clasped her hands and pulled her close .
he thought about that day , which seemed now so long ago , when he first saw her , standing beside her brother senn and her father , turson .
beautiful and brave , she had swept him away .
behind her , the other bride was walking towards him , her new husband , senn , holding her hand .
the first royal wedding in their new land was a double wedding as brothers married sisters .
he had never seen marial so happy .
his eye wandered to the stone cottage to which they would soon retire .
it was no palace , but it was a home .
the palace could come later , when there was time and resources to build one .
lets go for a walk , bearl said to his wife .
she smiled and said , all right .
lets walk along the river .
together they strolled along the new stone paved road that overlooked the clear , beautiful waters of the river .
the river fleet , marial had named it , and the river fleet it name remained .
as they walked , bearl looked with satisfaction on the sight before him .
a riverside garden replaced the former prison .
neat stone cottages had replaced the rude stone huts of the guards .
the small city was growing .
the people were spreading along the river , establishing small farms and vineyards .
bearl was happy .
they had found their paradise .
he looked west .
far in the distance , he knew that the white rock gleamed in the late day sun .
the promise of the old mariner had come true .
nerza was watching the same late afternoon sun as its rays fell upon the valley of the river fleet .
behind him , he could hear the voice of turis as he practiced his spells .
he was a smart lad , with a lot of promise .
in a couple of years , he would have to leave to learn wizard craft and follow in the footsteps of his father , arii .
his mind wandered to cirile , who spent the evenings sitting on the white rock , bathed in a silver cloud .
she had insisted upon moving to this desolate spot .
so here they had come , and built a stone cottage in the meadow below the rock so , she could be near the resting place of her lover and friend .
it was thus that nerza became the first guardian of the white rock .
he oversaw the ceremony by which arii gained his strength , and gave strength back to the kingdom .
each year the pilgrimage of ten year olds grew larger .
red man rock , the frozen visage of the monster gwaum , stared , dark and terrible , over the valley .
the monster slumbered , held in check by the power of the wizard arii and his covenant with the kings of this new land .
acerland , bearl had dubbed it , after the abundant acer trees which occupied the slopes of the hills above the river .
the monster slept , and the land was at peace .
it was a good feeling and nerza was happy .
back to the covenant table of contents back to table of contents the works of a. e. mableson short stories the blessing warlock revenge the covenant benny , benny , short as a penny my god , she 's a witch dunking for apples five fantastic fantasy tales vol .
1 ashes in the hearth do n't eat the hole of a doughnut the head in the window the hole the man in the window five fantastic fantasy tales vol .
2 ten fantastic fantasy tales tales for the campfire series footsteps pets appointment five tales for the campfire what 's in the cooler , mister ?
field of snakes the woman in the wind the sinkhole the dinner bell rings at midnight halloween party the hungry house the skull garden five tales for the campfire volume two ten tales for the campfire novels and novellas the magic pipe halloween party demon soul barn of fear epic fantasy series tales of island world .
wizard of the golden star part i tale of the white rock the rise of gwaum part ii tale of the white rock promise of the white rock part iii tale of the white rock the covenant part iv tale of the white rock tale of the white rock full novel awakening part i time of troubles turmoil part ii time of troubles borr part iii time of troubles the oasis part iv time of troubles time of troubles full novel restoration part i the order of solaun zerena part ii the order of solaun the order of solaun part iii the order of solaun gault part iv the order of solaun full novel the order of solaun the rise of acerland part i title to be determined glade of death part ii title to be determined the lament of arii part iii title to be determined tale of the crystal eye part iv title to be determined tale of tarque part v title to be determined the call of the white rock part vi title to be determined the return of tarque part vii title to be determined the flight of miralba part viii title to be determined pirates part vix title to be determined novel title to be determined the pirate king the wizard king the search of the king epic fantasy series tales of island world the six kingdoms of island world prospered , their people secure and happy , until the rise of gwaum .
the forces of forbidden magic drew gwaum forth from the depths of fire .
he destroyed the mighty kingdoms , one after another , until nothing remained but fear and despair .
hope sprang anew when arii , a young wizard of the golden star , arose .
after gwaum killed ariis family , arii thirsted to destroy him .
arii grew in power and wisdom until the day that he would challenge gwaum on mount qui .
arii was powerful , but gwaum was stronger and prevailed .
an ally stepped from the darkness .
would their combined power be enough ?
tale of the white rock is the first volume of the epic , historical fantasy series , tales of island world .
in this fantasy series , the powerful wizards of the golden star rise to use their magic and courage to battle the evil monster gwaum .
then they have to battle other threats to their homeland of island world , as well .
about a. e. mableson writer of both fantasy short stories and novels the bulk of a. e. mableson 's tales deal with the magical realm of island world .
the epic adventure fantasy series tales of island world relates the history of this unfortunate world .
island world lives under the curse of the evil creature gwaum .
born of fire in the ancient realm of napoli , gwaum grew in power until he became stronger than his master , the wizard darnay .
his first meal was to devour an unfortunate young woman .
this fueled a desire for the taste of human flesh that consumed the monster .
the epic fantasy adventure series tales of island world begins with the novella , wizard of the golden star .
arii was the greatest wizard of the golden star of all the ages .
he arises in the forests of island world as the monster gwaum holds sway over the land .
as a young boy he watched , horrified , as gwaum devoured his family as he picked red berries for his mother to turn into a delicious pie .
his uncle , sensing a premonition that something was wrong , finds the young boy hiding in the forest .
he adopts arii and teaches him wizard craft .
thus begins the epic struggle as arii seeks to destroy the monster that destroyed his family .
the first phase of the history of island world continues with the next three tales of this series .
these include the rise of gwaum , the promise of the white rock and the covenant .
bound together in a single novel , these novellas form the tale of the white rock .
the tale of the white rock is the beginning novel in the series tales of island world .
the series chronicles tales that which encompass the history of that faraway , mystical land .
j. r. r. tolkiens masterful lord of the rings books captured a. e. mablesons imagination .
he then sought to create his own fantasy world .
this culminated in the writing of tales of island world .
mossy feet books hopes that you will enjoy the epic adventure fantasy creations in the novels of a. e. mableson .
chapter one of the wizard of the golden star appears at the end of this ebook .
if you would like email notification of when new installments of the tales of island world series become available email the author for inclusion in the subscription list .
contact a. e. mableson mailto aemableson gmail.com find these books on mossy feet books back to table of contents sample chapter chapter one the awakening chapter one the fall of torne king nyle lithian watched his army 's destruction from the castle tower .
the air swirled with red dust that began to settle over the land around cleery , imparting an unwholesome stink to the city .
his ears rang with the sound of the monster gwaum as it bellowed from the hills above .
gwaum has beaten us , '' he said to his first minister , niram trum .
trum 's voice trembled with the fear his eyes showed .
what shall we do , sire ? ''
the king 's answer was simple .
flee . ''
they descended the stone steps to the king 's court .
queen betsa stood near the window overlooking the courtyard , their young son ruther by her side .
she turned as the king entered the chamber .
gwaum has defeated the army , '' she said , her voice quaking in terror .
we must get out of the castle , '' the king said .
with a glance at niram , he said , gather the court aides and their families and go to the dungeons . ''
a deep rumbling sound emanated from the walls of the castle .
a column gave way and the stones it supported fell , filling the chamber with dust and debris .
prince ruther 's sobs blended with the crash of falling stones .
niram 's eyes glazed as terror possessed his soul .
the buildings will bury us , sire . ''
just do as i order . ''
the king said , his voice harsh with urgency , impelling the terror stricken niram to act .
he disappeared into a corridor .
the king walked to a tapestry which contained the royal coat of arms and which covered the wall behind the throne .
pulling the tapestry aside , he pressed a dark colored stone .
a trap door in the floor fell away , revealing a dark passage with stone steps .
cool , dank smelling air swept across his nostrils .
his eyes fastened on the queen .
take the prince down to the passage .
you know the way . ''
the queen 's dark eyes fastened on her husband .
what will you do ? ''
the king withdrew his scabbard from its place on the wall and belted it on .
he pulled on a chain that hung from his neck .
a crystal hung from the chain , a crystal that glowed with a silver radiance .
he handed it to the queen .
the radiance dimmed .
i now pass the rule of the kingdom to you , betsa .
you must find a way to save our son ruther and sustain the kingdom .
i will not give up the kingdom to gwaum without defending it . ''
you will die , nyle .
do n't do this rash thing , my husband .
escape with us .
we need you . ''
i will not hide like a rat while this creature ravages my kingdom , killing my subjects .
my duty is to my people .
take the boy .
the house of lithian will survive .
take the star of torne and wear it . ''
she put the necklace around her neck .
as the crystal touched her skin , the radiance returned .
she was now the ruler of torne .
another bellow from the monster boomed across the city .
portions of the floor fell away and the wall of the king 's chamber collapsed .
red dust drifted into the room .
a putrid stink filled the air .
go , '' he said .
the queen , tears brimming in her eyes , paused .
she threw her arms around her king , husband and lover .
their hands clasped and they bathed themselves in the glow of one last kiss .
one last time he felt her cool , smooth skin .
then he let go .
go , betsa .
take our son and flee . ''
the queen took ruther 's hand and she led them to the passage .
papa , papa , come with us , '' the boy said , a sob punctuating his plea .
go , my son .
someday you will return as king . ''
more stones fell and the queen pulled the prince behind her as her feet clattered down the stone steps towards the dungeon .
the king watched them .
a moment later a stone fell , crashing into the floor , covering the passage .
he could feel the palace shudder .
he darted into the hall .
stones lay scattered around the passage , blocking his passage .
he turned and ran the other way .
threading his way through the destruction , he found another stair .
down he went .
upon reaching the bottom , he kicked at the door that led outside .
a moment after he emerged into the courtyard .
his feet pumped against the cobblestone street as he ran from the castle .
the acrid smell of smoke choked him as he ran .
a loud crash announced its fall .
he turned to see his once fine palace now a heap of rubble , dust arising from its remains .
a moment later , he turned and ran towards the hill , sword drawn .
all around he could hear the sound of screams and moans of people caught in their fallen buildings .
fires erupted from many of the rubble piles as cooking fires spread to the wooden support beams .
smoke billowed across the rubble filled streets , choking him and burning his eyes .
people milled about , confused and terrified .
run for the hills , '' the king said , his voice ringing out above the din .
save yourselves . ''
the creature , his task of destroying the city complete , strode into the streets .
his eye roamed about , seeking more morsels for his insatiable belly .
the king stopped .
gwaum 's eyes fastened on the king 's royal garb .
so , i have found the king , '' he said .
i love the taste of royal flesh . ''
his hand descended towards the king .
the king drew his sword and stabbed at the palm .
gwaum bellowed in pain and his red blood coated the king 's upturned face .
gwaum 's eye burned in anger .
you will die now . ''
you will not get me without more of your vile blood staining my land . ''
gwaum hesitated .
he did not wish to fight this man .
he had no desire to shed more of his own blood .
he pointed at the king with a red finger .
there was a flash of light , followed by a sharp cracking sound .
flamed leaped from a nearby fire and engulfed the king .
his body fell to the ground , charred and smoking .
i prefer my meat raw , '' said gwaum as he picked the king 's body from the stone street .
but you i will eat cooked . ''
he dangled the body over his mouth for a second , and then dropped it into his maw .
the kingdom of torne thus ended .
high above the hills above the city a group of people hurried along a narrow path .
queen betsa stopped for an instant to survey their surroundings .
below them , they could see the fires of the city of cleery as it burned .
gwaum stalked the city , stooping occasionally to pick up a morsel to feed on .
screams , muted by distance , rose in a terrible shroud of sound from the destruction .
ignoring the terror that slithered down her spine , she turned to search the rocky bluff that towered over the trail .
a familiar landmark teased her eye .
pressing against a rock a rumbling sound announced the opening of a dark crevice in the bluff .
she pushed the young prince into the dark opening .
go , ruther .
i will come soon . ''
enter the crevice , '' she said to the line of people behind her .
go quickly before gwaum turns to see us . ''
one by one , the refugees scurried into the crevice .
as the last one entered , she stepped inside .
servants had lit the torches and they lent their smoky odor to the already acrid air .
she pressed a stone besides the opening and the crevice closed .
she looked at the prince as he stood facing her .
a torch flickered behind him , shrouding his face in darkness .
she closed her eyes for one moment .
by now , the king had surely met his fate .
this morning she had awakened full of hope that the wizards would prevail and that they would defeat the monster .
the horror of their fall and then the crushing defeat of the last of the king 's army changed her life forever .
queen betsa opened her eyes .
she was now the leader of her people and this dark cavern was her realm .
back to table of contents if you would like email notification of when new installments of the tales of island world series become available email the author for inclusion in the subscription list .
join a. e. mableson on facebook http www.facebook.com aemablesonfantasy mossy feet books www.facebook.com mossy feet books this book is a work of fiction .
names , characters , places , and events are either products of the authors imagination or are used fictitiously .
any resemblance to actual events , locales , or persons , living or dead , is entirely coincidental .
copyright 2012 j. c. allen all rights reserved .
no part of this book may be stored , reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without express written permission of the author .
published by smashwords isbn 9781476093567 dedication this series is dedicated to kate , who not only inspired it , but drove it with her boundless curiosity , unique imagination , and indelible personality .
the history behind this novel is completely disputable .
although based on years of factual research , it is fiction .
so , if you take literally , or seriously , any of the concepts , ideas , representations , inferences or conclusions contained herein , try valium !
i simply followed my own conscience and mind through the trail of evidence i compiled over the years .
it was conceived to inspire interest in history and promote exploration of your surroundings and soul in every generation , not mindless , sheep mentality or blind faith .
i hope it encourages others to make their own determinations about everything ... or at least try to .
i would also like to thank the following for making this book possible my mother , shirley , for ... everything !
kate , kristen , carrie , and olivia for giving me insight into the thoughts and feelings of this newest generation of girls as well as planting most of the ideas in my head for many of the characters they 're sneaky like that .
rich , for encouragement .
scott , for hashing out the intricacies involved and for trying to tear apart every theory i had and eliciting controversy at every turn .
i would also like to thank everyone who has , and continues , to stand by me through everything !
and a special thanks to you , the reader , for supporting me !
nobody is to blame except myself for any errors , screw ups or omissions , although i 'll try to blame whoever i can , if i can those pesky aliens .
part i buried treasure prologue march 21 , 1756 , 8 47 pm , appalachian mountains .
branches , bushes and trees flew by on the amazingly stable video display .
the mans labored breath was exceptionally clear .
you could almost hear his heart pounding out of his chest .
occasionally , an upside down glimpse of his face came into view .
he appeared to be quite young , perhaps thirty , but had a look in his eyes , the eyes of an old man .
a wise old man .
the video oddly seemed to be recording from a camera mounted on a chain around his neck .
his dirty complexion and half inch beard growth gave hint that he had dwelled in these woods for days .
the perspiration on his face and tenseness of his forehead and jaw reflected his fear and determination .
he had several scratches on his face , mostly from running through the heavy brush .
looking down , his right hand was bloody , as was his left side , where a small hole pierced his buckskin jacket at the bottom of his ribcage .
not gon na make it !
he panted with difficultly as he stopped to gather his senses and breath .
he ducked behind a tree , concealing his breathing as much as possible .
no more than fifty feet away , atop a horse so black it appeared to be a void in the already dim light , dressed in black trousers and a bright red shirt and cape was his nemesis , bergamiser or bignose as he liked to call him , because of his huge red honker .
i know youre out there , taylor , the man called as he turned the horse in circles , looking each way carefully .
i know i winged you , too .
just give me the box and well get ya patched up .
he tapped his gun , which was lying across his legs , impatiently .
he heard a crack of a twig in the opposite direction , turned his horse and sped off in pursuit .
taylor breathed what seemed like an hours worth of breath and sighed , thank god hes as bad at tracking as he is at physics , he giggled painfully .
and thank god for the trees , or the moonlight would have given me away .
he pressed his hand against his side and pulled it away , wincing as he stared at the bright red blood on his fingers .
he grunted and then continued on , hoping to reach his destination before his body failed .
twenty minutes later bergamiser slowed to barely a trot , then a walk .
he was about to give up the chase .
he was angry and it was getting cold when he saw a large lump in the path ahead .
taylor watched as bignose climbed down from his mare and walked over to him .
his eyes closed before the man reached him .
he was face down , apparently clutching something to his body .
bergamiser carefully pushed taylor over onto his back with his foot , full of anticipation at recovering his prize finally .
taylor had died with a grin on his face , and bignoses features twisted with fury when he saw what taylor was holding in his hands a parchment scrawled in blood that read no time for you !
ha ha !
j.t .
chapter 1 alex friday , may 11 southern virginia .
it was a warm morning , but a damp one .
the sixty degree temperature still felt chilly flowing through the open window .
the sheer white curtains fluffed in and out in rhythm with the breeze .
the chill air felt soothing on alexs face as she snuggled in bed with the comforter pulled up around her neck as far as it would go .
the clock said 5 58 , it was set to go off at 6 00 , but she was always awake before it could ever alarm .
today , like every day except sunday , she had to no , wanted to go to early swim practice .
she had the option of going either before or after school , but she always did both .
alex loved swimming and was good at it .
she opened one eye and stared at her medals and ribbons , which were all hanging from hooks she made her father install on the front of a six foot mantle built over her bed to hold her trophies .
the ribbons swayed gently above her .
she remembered winning each one , starting with her first , a green fifth place ribbon when she was just five years old , competing in the five to eight year old category .
the rest were all blue , first place , from the time she was seven until now at twelve .
she thought that would change soon and she actually looked forward to possibly losing again when she would begin competing nationally in the twelve to fifteen year old group this summer .
youre too young to compete nationally , her dad had always said .
until this year .
alexs dad was richard rick williamson .
his medals , her most prized possessions , were hanging from hooks in the ceiling above the mantle three gold and two silver from the 1991 national invitational .
he was going to try for the olympics in 92 but decided he wasnt quite ready .
by 1996 , alex was in his life and he had gladly given up the idea of olympic gold and instead went for the gold in family and employment .
he managed to acquire his dream job senior designer and tester for one of the top gaming software companies in the world .
alex often felt she had ruined his dreams , but he always assured her she was more valuable than a thousand gold medals , and even better than a world record in the hundred meter butterfly , which he had destroyed in practice many times .
on the far wall , she had a picture of her dad and his coach when he was only fifteen and had set several state records in the open division of the state championships for freestyle and butterfly as well as i.m .
he was holding up seven first place ribbons to show the camera .
other than that , alexs room was the typical teen girls room teen idol posters were pasted up randomly around the walls .
she had a fluffy , frilly bed with matching desk , dresser and nightstand .
a giant net took up an entire corner of the room , filled with stuffed animals , all carefully placed , not thrown , and mostly care bears .
the room was painted two tones of blue dark blue on the bottom , light blue on top with a wave border in between .
a blown up picture of her swimming taken last year , decorated the waterline .
the carpet completed the pool illusion , being light blue with what looked like the sunlight patterns you would see on the bottom of a pool being constantly rippled by a slight breeze .
she also had a huge walk in closet on the same wall as the entry door .
it was always kept closed , mainly because it was stuffed with too many shoes , too many dresses , too many coats , jackets , hats , and of course , toys littering the floor and shelves .
she had a full length mirror in the opposite corner and a sectional sofa with pull out bed under the net .
rick had allowed her to paint and decorate the room however she wished each year , and continuously added touches like the huge flat screen tv mounted across from the couch .
it was a dream room for any young girl , and the layout was mirrored on the other side of a shared bathroom for jessies room .
the bathroom connecting the two sisters rooms was fourteen feet long , with one side totally taken up by countertop with double sinks and a mirror spanning the entire wall .
the other side held a six foot sunken jacuzzi , enclosed toilet closet , and glass door shower stall .
beyond the luxurious bathroom was what alex called hurricane jessie .
unless the area was in use , the girls left the doors open on both ends of the bathroom because they loved the breeze blowing through their rooms from opposite sides of the house when the weather was nice enough to keep the windows open .
at 6 00 , alex turned the alarm off as soon as it buzzed , slung the covers back and swung her feet around to the floor where she had fuzzy bunny slippers awaiting her feet pink to match her pink pajamas .
she used the bathroom with the lights off so as to not awaken the beast in the next room , and glanced into the mirror .
her emerald eyes looked wide awake , but her short brown hair was a mess .
she decided not to bother fixing it she was going swimming anyway and no other kids were ever up early enough to see her between the house and the rec center .
outside her room the upstairs hallway formed a balcony which overlooked the entryway , kitchen , and dining room .
a large , curved staircase wound down to the first floor and continued on into the basement .
the entire first floor was open from floor to ceiling , save for a single counter that denoted the boundary of the kitchen .
a huge pewter chandelier was suspended from the ceiling in the kitchen area and another in the dining area .
matching wall sconces graced both sides of the fireplace in the living room area .
a single large globe dangled in the entryway .
nothing but tiled floor demarcated the area called the kitchen , wood floors defined the dining and living rooms , and stone distinguished the entry .
she could smell the biscuits , eggs , sausage , bacon , and gravy as soon as she opened her bedroom door .
she bounced down the stairs and trotted over to the counter , where she could see rick placing two plates full of the scrumptious smelling breakfast .
good morning , sunshine , rick said as he poured them each a glass of orange juice .
morning , dad .
good job on the breakfast !
how do you always know what i want ?
fathers intuition , he said , shrugging playfully as he finished pouring .
he kissed her on the head and sat down beside her to eat .
i broke 28 seconds yesterday in the fly , she announced with a huge grin on her face which got even bigger as she saw ricks startled look .
you know thats second in the nation in my age group ?
wow , he finally said .
and no , thats first in your age group the only other girl who broke 28 seconds is sixteen now , so she wont be in your age group for the nationals .
alex was shocked that he had the information in his head , how did you know that ?
all of us old has been swimmers keep up with that kind of stuff , he answered with a straight face .
yeah , dad , like you always kept up on the twelve to fifteen girls stats i have ever since i knew someone who would be at the top of it .
in the fly , maybe .
you know thats my favorite like your dad , eh ?
what are you getting at , dad ?
she didnt like the questioning look on his face .
youre not trying to , um , live up to someone elses expectations , are you ?
she raised an eyebrow and then looked back down at her food , dad , i do work three times as hard at the fly .
not because it was your best , but because i like it the best too .
its the one stroke that can set you apart from everyone else .
honey , im just worried that youre working too hard .
you practice almost five hours a day counting the gym work .
youre gon na burn out .
uh !
dad !
i do it because i want to .
if i didnt want to , i wouldnt do it and i wouldnt worry about whether or not you approved of it .
your coach told me you spend the entire morning practice on the butterfly .
he says youre obsessed with it .
honey , that doesnt sound healthy .
you told me you worked on the fly three hours a day , dad , she argued .
when i was twenty , alex , not twelve .
when i was twelve i was shooting things with my bb gun and blowing up stuff with firecrackers .
so , you want me to become more destructive ?
she said sarcastically .
no , silly .
i want you to be a kid .
have fun , dont work all day .
you leave here at 6 30 and dont get home until 6 30 in the evening .
sometimes later .
thats more than i work !
but youre a geeky video game nut you play video games sixteen hours a day sometimes !
i , uh , enjoy that , honey i enjoy swimming , dad .
id do it all day if it werent for school .
its what i enjoy doing .
its like video games to you , or like barbie dolls for jessie when she was little , or like explosives to you ok , ok , i get your point .
is that not good enough for you ?
are you going to force me to play with dolls or something ?
no , honey , i wont .
but thats the only answer i would have accepted , he said with a knowing smile as she gave him a puzzled look .
look , i just wanted to make sure youre not trying to walk in my footsteps .
i want you to take your own path .
i am .
but some of the paths you enjoyed walking down are just as beautiful to me as they were to you .
you dont see me building fortresses in your strategy games or fragging space marines with rocket launchers in your shoot em up games .
i dont like everything you do i just like swimming !
rick just smiled at her tenderly .
what ?
she blasted in frustration .
i love you , alex .
does that mean i can skip school and swim all day ?
uh , no .
that means im happy you enjoy what youre doing and ill help any way i can !
cool , so youll build an olympic size swimming pool out back ?
ours isnt big enough .
i said any way i can we dont even have room i know , dad , thanks for worrying about me , she gulped the last of her orange juice and slammed the glass down on the counter .
now i got ta hurry up and get to practice .
she shot out of her seat and kissed him quickly on the cheek before running upstairs .
rick was still pondering their conversation when she flew past him and out the kitchen door to the garage .
she slung her backpack over her shoulder , hopped on her bike , and sped off to practice .
chapter 2 jessica and anna at 7 30 , rick came out of the basement , like he always did every school day , and headed up to jessies room , from which he could already hear the alarm clock blaring .
he pushed the door open and headed for the night stand to turn off what he thought was the most obnoxious sounding alarm he had ever heard .
he had bought it for exactly that reason , because jessie could sleep through an atomic blast at ground zero .
jessie lay sprawled across the bed , face down , half a leg and arm hanging over the side .
he grabbed both and yanked her off the bed and put her on her feet .
she appeared to be asleep standing up .
rick had learned over the years that the only way to wake jessie up was to physically remove her from the bed .
he checked the alarm clock it had been set for 7 00 .
he laughed .
why do you even set it ?
so youll hear it and wake me up , she mumbled as she brushed a cobweb of hair out of her face with her hands and staggered toward the bathroom .
he looked around for her clothes .
she often slept in whatever she planned on wearing , but now she had on shorts and a sports bra .
he laid out some clothes and headed downstairs to annas room .
rick and annas rooms were identical to alex and jessies , and directly below them .
annas room was originally ricks study until she turned thirteen and decided she required her own room instead of sleeping in alexs room on the pullout bed .
that was nearly two years ago , and rick had been using a corner of the basement rec room as his office since then always promising to build a wall around it but never finding the time .
anna was nearly fifteen now .
she had been living with the williamsons since she was five , when her mother , ricks cousin , abandoned her to his care .
all anna had known of her father was that he was black , which anyone could guess from her dark skin and kinky hair .
rick had finally told her about him when she turned fourteen .
annas father was jailed for life for murder before she had even been born , leaving her mother with a drug addiction problem and no help raising a baby .
anna had no desire to seek out her father since he had never yet bothered to try to contact her .
as far as she was concerned , rick was her dad now , and she was totally proud to be considered his daughter .
anna was extremely tall and very skinny .
she kept her hair straightened , past her shoulders , and shiny with a dozen chemicals , as if hiding from her ancestry .
just a hair shy of six feet tall , she nearly looked rick in the eyes now .
he figured she would surpass him before she turned sixteen one thing he had never told her about her father was that he was 6 ll .
headstrong , often moody , belligerent , and even mildly violent at times , anna listened to and respected only rick .
she often called him dad at home , but always uncle ricky in public because it embarrassed him .
time to get up !
rick yelled through the door as he banged on it .
nothing .
anna either woke up at the drop of a feather or joined jessie at ground zero it was a crap shoot .
rick was always leery of barging into annas room .
not only did he feel like he was invading her privacy , but she also had matured physically in the last couple years , often creating awkward moments when he had to wake her .
thank heavens today wasnt one of those embarrassing days , he sighed in relief after opening the door to see her well covered with a knee length nightshirt she often wore around the house .
he shook her shoulder and her eyes opened wide , but the rest of her didnt move for a few seconds .
awareness finally registered on her features and she jerked her face up out of a puddle of drool and blurted , oh my gosh !
what time is it ?
its 7 35 , sleeping beauty .
when are you going to start setting the alarm clock ?
when you stop waking me up , which i know youll always do right after you get jess up , she stated matter of factly , as if he were a dolt for not recognizing the rules of the game .
rick thought he sensed a pattern here .
he sometimes felt he was their servant , but they enjoyed it , and truthfully , so did he .
but he recognized they really needed to start learning some responsibility .
as he sat on the edge of her bed he chided , you know , youre almost fifteen .
i think you can start getting yourself up soon .
soon , she repeated .
soon , like when im 29 ?
you have to grow up sometime lord knows the rest of you is she moaned .
yeah , its because im growing so fast that i need more sleep , she hypothesized .
rick patted her on the leg .
right , he said as he rose from the edge of her bed and headed out the door .
breakfast will be waiting , your highness .
he headed to the kitchen , where most of the breakfast was ready , keeping warm under a heat lamp .
he had bought the restaurant style food warmer for this purpose he had gotten tired of fixing breakfast twice every morning once for alex , and then a second time for jess and anna .
now he could cook almost everything at once and keep it steaming hot for the next shift .
all he had to do was fry some eggs because they didnt keep well under the lamp .
but that only took a minute .
as he started cracking the eggs in the skillet , jessica came down the stairs .
she had put on a pair of jeans and t shirt , ignoring the outfit rick had laid out for her .
oh well , he thought , if that was her way of rebelling against authority , he might just make it through her teenage years .
her long dark brown hair was now neatly brushed back into a ponytail and stuffed through the hole in a ball cap .
she was very slender with long legs which were well muscled by her two different dance classes which were each held twice a week .
she loved barbie dolls and stuffed animals , but for some reason dressed like a tomboy at school .
rick thought , why try to understand her ?
shes ten .
enough said .
anna came out of her room , still in her nightshirt , as he was cracking the second egg , her timing impeccable as usual .
how many eggs do each of you want ?
he asked .
one , jessica replied instantly .
anna considered her answer a moment before answering , four .
wow , rick commented under his breath , but knew his growing girl was apt to eat like a truck driver quite often .
he finished cracking the eggs into the skillet , loaded a plate with the previously cooked vittles for each of them , flipped the eggs over easy before adding to the plates , and delivered the finished product to the table .
as he set each plate in front of the girls he kissed them on top their heads .
he then poured each a glass of juice , and sat down to join them .
i pamper them too much , he thought , then smiled he wouldnt have it any other way .
he watched a few minutes in silence , enjoying his orange juice .
you girls need to hurry up , its 7 50 now , he said as he rose from the table and headed back downstairs .
why dont you just take us to school , then we could sleep another twenty minutes every day !
jessie asked .
no thanks !
screeched anna , holding her hand up in the classic stop pose .
rick chuckled and shook his head before continuing down the stairs without comment .
he had quit taking them to school because it embarrassed them they were far too mature for their daddy to take them to school .
girls !
anna finished eating first and went back to her room to get dressed and put on some makeup .
she thought rick didnt know she wore makeup , but he did and had let her do it anyway so shed think she was getting away with something .
he had always told them they couldnt wear makeup to school until they were sixteen , but had realized that was a silly rule because girls just love to wear makeup for some strange reason .
he never bothered to tell them hed changed his mind , hoping to use it as a bargaining chip one day .
but nobody had ever questioned the rule !
anna and jessie left the house at 8 05 , after running downstairs to give rick hugs and kisses .
it took twenty minutes to walk to school .
the tardy bell rang at 8 25 , but somehow they always got there on time .
anna was forced to walk with jessie , and of course this was torture for the older girl , but still better than the horror of being driven by a parent .
anna was all about appearances .
every morning she managed to turn a grumpy , sleepy teen into a fashion model in the brief time she spent in front of the mirror , an art of which she was extremely proud .
chapter 3 kaylie and christy at the age of eleven , christy stapleton was a perky little firecracker .
already in seventh grade from being double promoted , she was very short and skinny as a rail , so she looked even more out of place with the twelve and thirteen year old kids .
her short blonde hair framed a face with deep blue eyes and a spattering of freckles on her bony cheeks .
she had been in gymnastics since she could walk and her entire tiny room was covered with various gymnast posters , except for one albert einstein .
christy was also a math and physics whiz kid , capable of understanding mathematical theories and computations most college students flee from .
at 7 15 , christy pushed down her covers and turned off the alarm clock .
she got up early each morning to perform her stretching ritual , which she performed in her bed since there wasnt room in the floor to spread out .
she stretched out into a full split , with her feet hanging slightly over each side of her small bed , and watched herself in the mirror on the wall to make sure she was perfectly symmetrical as she proceeded to bend down , left , right , middle checking each muscle in her legs , stomach , side , arms , and even her neck .
every stretch had to be perfect as she slowly and methodically went through back bends , splits , and all other sorts of pretzel twists .
at 7 30 she was done and got up to inspect herself more thoroughly in the mirror .
she checked every inch of her body as if she were afraid some fat monster had come in the middle of the night and deposited fifty pounds of lard on her legs , arms , chest , stomach or butt .
nope , still skinny , just the way she liked it .
she was not dangerously anorexic or underweight , but she teetered on the edge of it .
she smiled , satisfied , and proceeded to change into her school clothes , which she had laid over the back of her chair the night before .
she grabbed her shoes , socks , and book bag , and headed downstairs for breakfast , which would be cereal , pop tarts or some other form of cold food .
this precise routine was followed every day , to the second .
her parents were never home in the morning .
her parents were never home in the evening either .
she often wondered if they even existed .
she mused that she hadnt really seen them since she was eight and had always gotten herself to school , practice , and fixed all of her own meals as well since then .
she headed out the door for school after breakfast .
kaylie monroe was an average looking girl of medium height , medium weight , and medium appearance just a plain ordinary thirteen year old girl .
she had straight thick black hair that hung just past her shoulders , which she kept tucked behind each ear .
she wore a constant mischievous smirk on her face that somehow managed to appear cute instead of sneaky .
she loved soccer more than anything , and dreamt of playing for the duke blue devils someday .
she played in spring and fall leagues and year round anywhere else she could .
she turned back her covers at 7 45 .
wearing a pink tank top , she stood in front of the mirror and stared at her chest as she pulled the shirt tight , making sure the boob fairy didnt visit her the night before she worried constantly that she would not be able to play soccer if that happened .
she turned sideways and inspected herself for several minutes before smiling happily , content that she had escaped another day .
she went to the bathroom with her clothes and came out a couple minutes later with knee length white pants and a blue duke sweatshirt on .
her lips were full and bright red now and her brown eyes were deeper and darker from careful application of make up .
she loved to make the much older anna jealous with the fact that she was allowed to use make up .
kaylie never ate breakfast at home before school she simply drank a glass of milk while putting on her shoes .
she finished her glass and put it in the sink , then grabbed the marker on the dry erase board and wrote , going to alexs , cya monday .
she grabbed her book bag and headed for school at 8 20 she lived just two blocks away .
chapter 4 an interesting assignment both arms came out of the water at her hips as her legs thrust her almost completely into the air .
she literally dove back in and coasted with another dolphin kick .
that was her dads secret to the butterfly and she employed it beautifully .
she extended her arms fully in front of her and pulled as much of the liquid as she could down to her sides before stretching her hands out for the lunge to the finish .
both palms slapped into the side and she touched both feet to the bottom as she stood in the waist deep water to wait for chelsea .
a full two seconds later , chelsea popped up after jabbing her own fingertips into the same sensitive wall surface .
she immediately looked up to the electronic timer .
dont you ever look at your time , alex ?
i have a clock in my head .
was it good ?
id say so its 28.05 ! !
what about you ?
alex asked expectantly , seeming oblivious to her own accomplishment .
dont you know what that means , alex ?
alex looked at her blankly , and then peered up at the scoreboard , your time is 30.02 !
i told you 29 seconds isnt far away for you !
chelsea put her hands on her hips and glared at alex .
you really dont care if you just set the best time of the year in our age group , do you ?
you make me sick , girl !
alex just shrugged and hugged her .
chelsea was fifteen and eight inches taller and 25 pounds heavier than alex .
her short black hair and bushy eyebrows stood out on her otherwise plain face .
last year she had won every event , but this year she had placed second whenever she had competed with alex .
a distant second .
she had started entering back and breast stroke just so she could win something other than relays this year .
alex could beat her in those too , but chose to enter the distance races for freestyle and butterfly .
chelsea didnt mind second place , even a very distant second place , because she knew alex would be something special .
chelsea also knew alex had made her better , teaching her and pushing her to the point that she might just pull off some blue ribbons next year and more the following years , in the sixteen to eighteen age group at least shed have a chance then because she would be competing against someone other than alex .
i told you youre going to nationals with me this year .
i cant go without you .
two more hundredths puts you in the top ten , and two more tenths could land you in the main heat , alex said calmly , ignoring her praise .
you dont get it .
that girl from california posted a 28.38 as her best , and you beat that all four times we raced today !
alex shrugged and replied , i posted 29.15 nationally , so she could be half a second faster now , too !
ill be more confident when i hit 27 or 26 .
chelsea laughed , my dear , youd be on the podium in the olympics with a 26 .
well , for now , youre going to nationals with me , and thats final .
next year youre going too .
chelsea raised the corner of her lip as well as an eyebrow at her .
dont give me that look , youre not done improving .
by next year youll be clawing at 28 .
chelsea snorted in disbelief , right .
lets go get dressed its already past 8 00 .
race you to the shower !
alex yelled .
you dont stand a chance against me on land , flipper !
chelsea teased .
both girls jumped from the water and sprinted to the shower room , with chelsea arriving yards ahead .
if they ever drain the pool at the olympics , ive got a shot to beat you !
chelsea panted as she entered the shower room and hurriedly peeled off her suit .
they call that track and field , dork !
alex laughed back at her as she followed and did the same .
they sped through their showers and left on their bikes ten minutes later again racing .
chelsea winning again too .
they took a paved bike trail that cut through the woods , and after about half a mile they crossed a bridge over a nearly flooded stream of chocolate water .
it was still raining slightly but the stream seemed to be slowly dropping , evidenced by the patterns on the edge of the banks .
another mile through the trail put them in the middle of town , one block from school .
chelsea slowed up and waited for alex to catch her .
alex took advantage and sped by , claiming victory and taunting her as they stopped to chain their bikes .
that wasnt fair !
chelsea argued , not truly upset by it .
your fault !
do i ever let up on you in the pool ?
so im a sucker then , eh ?
yep !
you goin to practice after school ?
alex asked .
no its friday i go to my dads house this weekend .
oh .
ok , see ya monday then !
alex said as they hugged .
chelsea walked across the street to the high school alex rushed into the junior high , the first bell ringing just as she entered .
alex was almost to her locker where christy and kaylie had been waiting for her .
she grabbed her books and headed for class with them .
they had all their classes together this year , which had made the year much easier for the trio .
andersons going to have a pop quiz today , kaylie announced as they marched lock step toward their first class .
yeah , right , said alex skeptically .
its friday .
he never gives tests on friday .
plus were not done with caesar yet , hes still alive , you know ?
who cares about rome anyway , thats like two centuries ago , joked christy .
millennia , dork , centuries are a hundred years , a millennium is a thousand , corrected kaylie .
i want to know what life was really like back then , not what some stuffy old farts wearing blankets did .
why dont we ever learn whats important ?
mr. anderson was following closely behind , eavesdropping .
unofficially retired , at 72 years old , he was fairly tall and still well built .
he was bald with a fluffy white ring of hair that always seemed to stick straight out .
his hair was matched by his huge , bushy , white as snow eyebrows which rested over wide eyes and a big red nose .
anderson loved to teach and loved history .
the kids all joked that he was alive when history started .
that amused him .
as the kids filed into the classroom , anderson grabbed his book and came around to the front of his desk where he kept his stool , and opened his book to a marked page .
kaylie sat in the closest seat , alex behind her , and christy to the left of alex .
open your books to page 217 , said the veteran teacher in a soft , but still strong voice .
he paused as the kids reluctantly did so , mumbling dislike .
he suddenly looked at christy , who seemed pitifully bored with the idea of more book study .
no .
close your books , class , he decided spontaneously .
eyebrows raised , foreheads crinkled .
many kids could be heard murmuring about the rumored pop quiz .
the old man swiveled his stool , placed the book on his desk , and slowly turned to face the class .
told ya !
pop quiz , kaylie whispered to alex .
class .
i want to do something different .
i heard an interesting question this morning on the way to class , he nodded at christy .
what ms. stapleton here asked was what everyday life was really like back in the days of the roman empire for normal people .
now ive read a lot of books about that period of time , and as you may know , its one of the most fascinating to me .
most every history class will tell you about the senate and the treachery of caesar , or the military tactics of romes imperial soldier legions , but never do you hear what life was like for the everyday roman .
he then motioned to christy , ms. stapleton , would you please come forward and state your inquiries ?
christy shrank back into her seat , pointing to her chest and squeaked , uh , me ?
hoping he had made a mistake .
yes , dear , you .
i think you have questions that are probably more interesting than facts about stuffy old farts in sheets , dont you ?
he challenged .
christy , bolstered by a new confidence born of adolescent superiority complex , stood and firmly stated , yes , as a matter of fact , i think i do !
and took up residence right beside the admired elder .
well , she started , weve heard about julius caesar and whoeverus maximus and all that stuff and its really no different than any other empire or government that ever existed , is it ?
anderson raised a caterpillar eyebrow and pulled up a knee , rested his elbow on it , then his chin on his fist .
she watched him carefully , guessing he was going to chastise her for her thoughts .
please , explain , christy .
i like where youre going with this !
she relaxed and smiled , ok. well , it seems every government oppresses its people or is corrupt or even evil .
like our own a chorus of cheers welled up instantly at those words .
but , there are still people like us i mean normal families and stuff .
were there normal families then ?
of course there were !
we just never hear about them .
everyone couldnt live in palaces and have servants to do everything for them .
what did the normal moms and dads do ?
what did the kids do ?
a prissy girl in the back stood up , dressed in an outfit that belonged on a runway , not in middle school .
yeah , what did the kids our age wear ?
all we know is what the royalty wore .
a large boy stood up then , what did they eat ?
others joined in , what was school like ?
did the kids play sports ?
where did the kids hang out ?
were the kids of normal families forced to marry strangers too ?
the questions kept coming and mr. anderson stopped them for a few seconds while he asked christy to go to the chalkboard and start writing them down .
this went on for several minutes until they had over thirty questions scribbled hastily by a happy christy .
ok , class , lets try to answer all of these questions .
this weekend , i want each of you to pick a question and write it down .
christy , you go first and mark off the question you want to answer .
i want to know if the kids played sports , she said easily as she marked through the question .
kaylie stood up immediately and volunteered , i want to find out what the kids our age wore .
a few kids later , alex stood and said , i want to find out what kind of houses normal people lived in .
there were 24 students , 32 questions .
after they had each selected one mr. anderson spoke , everyone , write down the remaining eight questions .
if you can answer any of them i will give 25 bonus points each .
a boy in the middle asked , where do we find the answers ?
its definitely not in our book !
hmmm anderson pondered , you could use this fancy internet you kids play around on all the time now books , whatever .
ill be lenient on this .
im sure some of these answers will be very difficult to dredge up .
i know ive never seen the answer to quite a few of these myself .
ill make a deal with you all though , ok ?
everyone nodded warily , waiting for the deal before answering .
you can print or copy any information you find on your topic this does not have to be an essay of your own words unless you want it to be .
but !
he paused to get their attention , if you can not find any information on your particular topic , i want you to first show me where you looked to prove you actually made an effort to find the answer in at least three sources .
then , if you like , you can make up the answer use your imagination to tell us whatever you think it might be .
when done , leave it to me to guess whether you made it up or not .
does that sound fun ?
yeah !
they all cheered .
a boy on the left side of the room stood up and asked , when are these reports due ?
some of you may be ready by monday , so well start then .
but you best be finished by at least friday .
this assignment is mostly for fun , but i believe we all have a chance to learn a great deal by it , including me .
does anyone want to do the assignment i had originally planned for today ?
the same boy was still standing and asked , um , what assignment was that ?
im so glad you asked !
it was going to be an essay of at least one thousand words on the processes and regulations of how the roman senate proposed and passed laws .
he smiled broadly , anyone want to do that instead ?
complete silence .
the bell then rang and the kids all started to get up .
mr. anderson quickly stopped them , i expect some of you to be ready by monday , and there will be ten bonus points for all who are .
ok , dismissed !
there was a huge buzz about the homework all the kids were completely energized by it .
mr. anderson grinned broadly , enjoying their sudden enthusiasm in history as they all walked past him , smiling and talking about the great roman empire .
the girls went to their next classes .
at lunch , the subject came up again , when christy asked , how are we going to find the answers to the questions in history class ?
alex answered , im checking the net first , but dad has a bunch of books about rome , too kaylie interrupted her , im just going to ask your dad .
he did so much research for that game hes making , he has to be able to you always ask alexs dad , cuz you have a crush on him !
christy teased her .
kaylie blushed , i do not !
he just knows everything about the stuff im interested in .
he reads the same books hes into the same games , movies , music alex put her hand up , dont kid us , girl .
you spend half your time at my house hanging over his shoulder drooling on him .
i do not !
we just get along well !
i can talk to him about anyt cut it , christy said .
you kiss alexs picture of him every time you enter her room !
well !
that picture is just yummy gross !
thats my dad , kay !
yeah , but hes only fifteen in that picture , not ancient like he is now he wasnt your dad then , she stuck out her tongue defiantly .
god !
do i drool over your dad ?
asked alex .
christy answered for her , kays dad is bald and fat .
definitely not drool material .
good points , alex said .
kaylie stuck out her tongue at both of them this time and went back to eating .
they finished lunch and went through the rest of their classes .
after the last bell of the day , they all met at the bike rack .
are we all meeting up at my house tonight ?
alex asked .
yeah , my practice doesnt start until after 4 30 today though , answered christy .
ive only got ten minutes to get to the field for soccer practice , but you know ill be over afterwards .
see ya there , kaylie said , trotting off to the field house next to the soccer park as christy and alex mounted up and rode off in opposite directions .
chapter 5 practice makes perfect kaylie ducked into the field house and changed into her practice uniform , emerging with her shoes and socks in hand and bookbag over her shoulder .
she ran across the ground barefoot and sat down to put on her shoes just in time to join the other girls in warm up stretches .
girls , its friday do you want a short practice ?
the coach asked .
they all said yes , except kaylie .
kaylie loved to practice as much as playing .
ok , well play one half .
if everyone puts out enough effort , well quit then .
the whole team cheered , minus kaylie , of course , and went off to the field as the coach passed out red net jerseys to half the girls to distinguish teams .
kaylie watched as the coach handed her co captain a jersey , as well as most of the other starting players .
kaylie didnt get one .
this will be fun she thought .
ill be playing against the entire starting lineup with the subs .
challenging .
red gets the ball first , the coach yelled as she handed it over to a girl with a red jersey .
with whistle in one hand and stopwatch in the other , she made eye contact with both captains and blew the whistle .
the girls quickly got into position and threw in the ball .
kaylie held back a bit at midfield , waited for the right moment , then broke for the ball after the second pass and intercepted it , running the other way full speed .
she noticed one of her team running just as hard ahead on the other side of the field and tapped the ball way out in front of the girl , who met it perfectly in stride .
kaylie kept on running for the goal .
the other girl punched the ball ahead of her and kept running forward with no enemies around , but closing in fast .
by then , kaylie had caught up to her , running parallel toward the goal , and the girl punted the ball directly in step with her .
the goalie came running out to try to stop the pass , but it was too late .
kaylie kicked with her right foot and connected perfectly with the ball , knocking it past the goalies diving arms and into the back of the net .
her team gathered around her and cheered , taunting the starting players .
kaylie scored three more goals before the half ended , making the final score five to one .
the coach was pleased with the effort and told them to hit the showers , making the red team run a mile .
kaylie liked to be in shape and would usually run with the losing team , but today she figured it would be just as good to run to alexs house , which was a mile or more .
she grabbed her bookbag and jogged off instead of joining the others in the showers .
christy arrived at gymnastics class 45 minutes early she had nowhere else to go .
she went into the dressing room and pulled her favorite red , white , and blue olympic team replica leotard over her body , and casually strolled into the gym to do some warm ups , checking to see if any apparatus was available to play on while the younger kids were practicing .
she found a couple of unused floor level balance beams and went over to goof off on them .
after stretching , she mounted one and bounced , pranced , flipped , and flopped back and forth across it .
she liked to see how long she could continue to stay on , trying harder things each pass handstands , cartwheels , flips , back flips , twisting back flips , leaps , turns she wasnt missing a thing .
she finally got tired , and her chest was pumping hard , so she simply stretched out and laid down on it .
a new record , she smiled to herself , satisfied .
after resting a few minutes and regaining some energy , she got up and did a walkover , back handspring , and double back flip off the end of the beam , sticking the landing with only a slight wobble .
she then sprawled out on the mat , face down in a split , and watched the other kids .
eventually , the coach came over and asked if she would like to assist some of the younger girls until her practice started .
sure !
she chirped and popped up to help .
christy helped the other girls on the floor exercise until her coach arrived , 25 minutes later .
he put her through ninety minutes of grueling work on the uneven bars , vault , and floor .
she was sweating profusely , but her smile glistened even more than her skin , until her coach told her practice was over .
she often stayed after practice and played on the equipment for an hour or more , but it was already well past 6 00 and she wanted to ride to alexs house before it got dark , so she headed to the dressing room .
she peeled off her leotard and literally wrung the sweat out of it .
she decided to put it in a plastic bag , along with four others , and wash them at alexs house .
she only had six of them in her locker at the gym .
she took a quick shower , dried off , dressed , and then headed out .
anna met jessie outside the elementary school and they ran to the track , where the other kids were already warming up .
she was always late for practice because she was responsible for taking jessica with her .
her coach understood and allowed her tardiness every day .
jessie would usually go out onto the track and play in the sand in the long jump pit , but today she opted to sit on the bleachers and watch .
every other day except friday , she would have dance class and rick would pick her up during practice .
anna hurried into the girls locker room and climbed into her tankini track outfit and joined the others on the field .
the team had a track meet the next day , so the coach didnt want them to work too hard , mostly having them practice on sprints and techniques .
jessica watched anna practice handing off the baton for what seemed like a hundred times .
at 5 30 , after she practiced the long jump a few times , the coach called them all to the high jump area to discuss event assignments for the meet .
jessica went to sit beside her cousin .
anna was pleased at first she was entered in the 100 meter run , 200 meter run , 100 and 200 relays , and then high jump !
she hopped up quickly , coach ! ?
she put her hands on her hips , what do you mean , high jump ?
and stared angrily , awaiting an answer .
youre in high jump tomorrow jenkins , the coach said dismissively .
but , uh , coach ... ive never even tried high jump .
shouldnt i be in the long jump ?
becky sanders is our long jump she won the state meet last year at it .
shes a senior , too anna stomped her foot in protest , but i can jump a foot further than jenkins !
the coach blared , get over here , now !
ugh !
she huffed as she tromped over to the coach .
coach simmons was a lot cooler when she arrived , jenkins , im the coach , right ?
he asked .
uh yeah , of course you are , but becky will win the long jump against the team we face tomorrow , but they have a girl who jumps 48 in the high jump , and ours can only jump 42 but i know you can go much higher .
meanwhile , we have three girls who can beat their best long jumper do you see what im getting at , jenkins ?
anna stared blankly , considering all he had said .
simmons sighed , what im getting at is we can have two wins and a complete sweep in the long jump or one win in the long jump and second in the high jump .
thats more points for the team , isnt it ?
and the way i see it , thats just enough to ensure victory , which is what im supposed to do , right ?
yes sir , anna slumped in defeat .
so what are you worried about ?
heck , you might even like it !
youre gon na set the state record in the long jump before you leave here girl , but tomorrow youre going to help the team win .
ok ?
she smiled halfheartedly , uh , yeah , of course !
ok. go sit down and stick around after were done .
ok coach , she obediently went back to sit beside jessica .
coach dished out the rest of the assignments for the meet and dismissed everyone .
he then walked over to the high jump bar and set it .
he turned to anna and motioned her over .
thats 46 , jenkins .
what do you think ?
she smirked and backed up about ten feet .
she blasted off and dove right over , head first , rolling off the mat .
yeah , looks easy enough !
she giggled .
shock registered on his face .
that was actually 4l0 .
and , uh , dont you even know how youre supposed to jump this here , let me show you .
coach had quite an impressive beer gut , but he was still in amazing shape otherwise .
he put his clipboard on the ground , paced off a few feet , and ran a semi circle toward the bar .
he came alongside it , planted his right foot , and heaved his body up backward , arching his back at the top and flipping his legs up and over , landing on the mat halfway upside down .
try it that way .
annas eyes opened wide , she could remember seeing others doing it that way but she never paid attention before .
she tried once and ran into the bar on her way up .
she was discouraged , but the coach urged her to try again .
the second time she hit the bar with her arm before going over .
then she started to get the hang of it and cleared it easily two times .
the coach was stunned again , youre not even arching your back can you try that ?
im afraid to .
ill land on my head and break my neck !
thats why you flip your legs over at the end that will carry you over .
just put your hands up to catch your fall .
here , lets move it up so you have to do it right to make it over .
he put it up to 52 , then changed his mind and selected two more inches of height .
anna hit her butt on the bar three times in a row .
this is perfect , the coach thought , she would have to do it correctly now to succeed .
he showed her a few more times how to do it properly , knocking the bar down twice himself .
he was at his limit as well , but the technique was what he was teaching so it didnt matter to him at all .
jessie was half asleep on the far corner of the thick pad when anna finally cleared the height and awoke her with a scream of jubilation , i did it !
she yelled over and over , i really did it !
great job !
the coach praised .
lets do it a few more times , and then you can head for the lockers .
she cleared it two more times , and he moved it up again .
she cleared 58 on her second try .
that , ms. jenkins , is our state record !
he revealed .
what ?
she gasped in amazement .
yeah , and you just learned a few minutes ago .
i think youre ready for tomorrow , dont you ?
uh , yeah , wow .
i guess so !
she waved at jessica to come with her to the locker rooms then shouted at the coach , hey coach !
i still like long jump better , in case you have any goofy ideas !
im already thinking about taking you out of the 4x200 , anna .
i think we can still win that without you , and put you in both .
but not this week , ok ?
ok !
i hate the 200 anyway !
cool !
she called back happily as she strutted off with jessica to the locker room .
when alex left school , she pedaled a block before turning down the bike trail she had followed to school that morning , casually pacing herself this time .
it had finally stopped raining and the trail was mostly dry as the sun was burning bright , except for a few puddles that had hidden from it all day .
she took the time to notice all the flowers blooming , the deep , dark green of the trees , the smell of spring in bloom .
it was a beautiful sight and worth it to dawdle along the path .
when she turned the corner to cross the bridge over the formerly swollen stream , she was caught by a blinding reflection from the opposite bank , just above the chocolate waters where a chunk of the bank had given way to gravity and erosion .
she nearly ran into the bridge railing and was temporarily stunned by the brightness .
luckily , she wasnt racing this time or she would be nursing some skinned knees and elbows , or worse , she thought .
she regained her composure and stared toward the light , shielding her eyes and squinting .
she stopped and walked her bike to the other side of the bridge and leaned it against the rail , never taking her gaze from the shiny object .
she continued to keep it in sight as she approached just short of the drop off created by the powerful water , and then carefully lowered herself nearer to it .
it appeared to be a holographic baseball card or something , but was too shiny for that .
she slid down the mud a few feet , ending up with her right foot on top of the object .
it was solid !
she knelt down and clawed away some mud .
a shape emerged , roughly six inches square , and after more digging , six inches deep .
only the top was shiny from all the rain and water she guessed the rest was encrusted with what looked like centuries of clay , hardened over time .
she chipped some of it away but decided to finish digging it out first .
although the object was hard as steel and seemed to be a solid cube , she noticed it was light as a feather when she pulled it out of the mud with a defiant sucking sound .
she then noticed something else , something rattling inside .
she carried it to the bike and laid it down while searching through her bag for something to wrap around it .
all she had was a lunch bag from a few days ago when she took a sandwich to school instead of eating the school fish which she insisted always made her sick .
she rubbed as much mud off the object as she could on the grass , and squeezed it into the bag , a tight fit , but a fit nevertheless .
she wiped her hands on her pants , which were already streaked with mud from sliding down the bank , hoisted her backpack over her shoulder , and continued on to practice .
she arrived at practice a few minutes early , despite her casual pace , and went into the locker room to change .
she slipped into her suit , thinking about the strange thing she had just found as she grabbed a washcloth and her jeans and headed for the shower .
all the other girls were in there already , they liked to get wet under the hot showers before jumping into the pool .
by the time they got into the water , the wetness would feel the same as the pool water it was a common swimmers trick .
alex wet the wash cloth and tried to clean the mud off her pants without completely soaking them , then went back to the changing area to hang them in front of the heater .
she was thinking of getting the box out and scrubbing it when her friend , jodie , came in and told her it was time for practice to start .
as if on cue , she heard the coachs long whistle call .
she put her prize back in her locker and sped outside .
they started with relays girls in one lane , boys in the next , alternating for each age group .
each would swim one lap of the same stroke , rest , then a lap of the next stroke through all four disciplines of swimming .
there were six girls in her age group today and six boys as well , so naturally they were racing .
usually , with chelsea there , it was a close race , but today the girls just couldnt keep up .
jodie was upset with her performance as she climbed out after her turn .
alex tried consoling her because she was the youngest in her age group .
jodie had just started swimming only a year ago when she was in alexs class and made the mistake of asking alex what sport she should do .
she had been in ballet and her mother always placed her in beauty contests which she hated and she wanted to rebel by taking up a sport .
delicate and waif like , everything on jodie was thin , from her shoulder length black hair to her eyebrows , nose , mouth , arms , and legs .
alex had taken the tiny urchin under her wing and continued to work with her throughout the year .
when she began , the only strength she possessed was in her legs from the ballet , alex guessed .
now she had developed a slight trace of upper body muscles and was beginning to rise up from the depths of the team stats .
out of eight girls in their age group , she was still in the bottom half for all strokes , but was moving up steadily .
quit being so hard on yourself , jo , youre not even near the bottom anymore and youve only been swimming a year !
oh yeah ?
how many points have i contributed to the team this year , hmmm ?
you had a fourth place finish just a week ago thats two points , alex pointed out .
oh yeah , made a huge difference .
that makes about eight points this season , you score fifty every week !
jodie snapped as she slung the water out of her glossy hair at alex with a playful grin on her face .
all the other girls have been swimming at least five years , in case you forgot , and youre almost in fourth on the team in two strokes already .
thats pretty amazing , if you ask me .
yeah , but im last in everything else !
pfft !
youre not last in anything .
youre fifth in breast and fly , and moving up in all of them .
wait until monday when coach times us again , youll see !
jodie knew she wasnt going to win this battle with alex , and really didnt want to , she just wanted to vent .
yeah , youre probably right .
are we working out after practice today ?
of course , how else can we turn your spaghetti arms into water pumps ?
alex giggled as she clasped her fingers around jodies tiny arm .
youre next .
think you can pull this one out ?
blah !
no .
were down five seconds and i cant even beat this guy by one second !
they continued to race through each stroke the girls almost beat the boys in the backstroke .
at the end of practice the coach held a few members over to work on mistakes she had seen .
jodie and alex continued to train on their own .
alex made her do two laps while holding her feet to work the arms .
jodie was worn out and sprawled out on the wet cement after the torture .
the coach gave alex a wink and a thumbs up for her effort in helping jodie .
you just lay there and look pretty , beauty queen , im gon na do a 200 or 400 im , jabbed alex as she rocked jodies butt back and forth with her foot .
i suggest you at least do a 100 or youll be a slacker and your mom may put you back in ballet !
jodie rolled over and grumbled something about slavery being abolished years ago .
alex giggled and dove in .
they finished their swim and both lay gasping on the side of the pool , this time on their backs , staring up at the ceiling while their chests heaved trying to get precious air into their lungs .
time for the gym now , alex announced after the short rest .
jodie griped some more but alex snatched her arms and pulled her to her feet .
the gym was deserted and the two girls went to work .
alex put her friend through several workouts to strengthen her arms and the other muscles used in each stroke .
jodie was starting to understand as alex demonstrated what each muscle did .
ok , now that my entire body hurts are we done ?
i thought women went to the gym to get mud baths and massages !
gee , youre welcome , miss unappreciative , alex said dryly .
lets get out of here .
best idea youve had all day !
jodie remarked gladly .
chapter 6 message in a bottle alex followed jodie into the shower room where they threw their wet towels in the hamper and grabbed a dry one .
alex picked up the sandwich bag and tore the box free .
what is that ?
jodie asked , mesmerized .
something i found at the bridge on the way over here , she replied as she grabbed the wash cloth , soap , and shampoo .
its really weird , jodie commented .
alex held it up to show her friend , i thought id take it in the shower and get all this crud off of it .
whoa !
what in the let me see it !
alex handed the object over and watched her eyes expand in amazement .
she weighed it in her hands , its light , like aluminum !
more like balsa wood , alex said .
i have no idea what it is or where it came from .
jodie wasted no time , taking off toward the shower with it , well , lets find out !
alex grabbed her stuff and followed .
they entered the shower room and jodie quickly turned on the closest spigot and held the cube up to the spray , splattering them both with grimy mud .
as soon as she got most of the loose stuff off , she held it out for alex to scrub .
three sides were already clean and they could see symbols in the silvery metal .
the other three sides required a little more effort to remove the hardened clay .
it soon emerged spotless and alex held it out to examine .
the surface was completely smooth , like glass , but felt like metal .
there were absolutely no dents or scratches anywhere .
odd , alex observed .
how could it be so perfectly smooth ?
so shiny too , but when you look at it like this jodie took her arms and raised them to the light , you can almost see through it .
alex took it and turned it over in her hands , seeing the symbols alter before her eyes .
the only one that didnt change was a big spiral on one side .
the cube was completely seamless and appeared to be one solid chunk of metal , but the rattle ?
what is that ?
she wondered aloud .
it looks like one of those hologram cards , but those have angled surfaces , this is so smooth , jodie puzzled .
i thought thats what it was when i first saw it .
ten minutes of inspection later , jodie announced , i know what this is !
what ?
alex asked .
its a piece of a space ship that fell off or something proof that were not alone in the universe !
alex grabbed the cube from her with a suspicious look and cradled it under her arm , as if protecting it from an evil enemy .
beam me up , scotty , theres definitely no intelligent life down here !
she teased .
jodie pawed at the artifact playfully and the two girls mock wrestled over it until it accidently slipped from their hands and clunked on the floor .
dork !
alex exclaimed .
youre gon na break it , jodie apologized and bent down to pick it up .
look , alex !
it took a chip out of the concrete but theres not a scratch on the box .
i dont think i could hurt it with a sledgehammer !
she picked it up and placed it in alexs hands , but you better keep it , just in case .
they giggled and alex set it down .
we need to get our showers and get out of here its probably after 6 00 already .
the two friends quickly washed up and headed back to their lockers .
what are you going to do with it ?
jodie asked as she finished toweling her hair dry .
im going to take it home and let my dad check it out .
hes into history and stuff , and he knows like a ton of people who dig up treasures and artifacts , she replied as she pulled on her shirt and walked over to get her jeans , which were nearly dry .
jodie finished drying her hair and sat on the bench to pull out her brush .
alex threw her clothes at her , hurry up , brush your hair on the way home .
i want to take this to dad asap !
she slung her backpack over her shoulder and waited impatiently , tapping her foot to emphasize that she was ready and jodie was holding her up .
jodie got the hint and quickly pulled her clothes on as alex gathered jodies gear and packed all except her brush , which she tapped in her hand .
jeeze , chill , im almost done !
jodie said as she finally yanked her shirt over her head and snatched the bookbag and brush from alexs outstretched arms .
they secured their lockers and walked briskly to their bikes .
you should come to my house and see what dad says about the cube , jodie !
alex yelled over her shoulder as they pedaled off .
jodie lived just two blocks away from alex .
im probably late for dinner already .
call me later or something , will you ?
im like completely on the want to know list !
i will , unless its like a message from outer space or secret alien weapon that blows up the entire solar system .
or maybe the president will ask me to come have dinner with him and the entire intelligence community .
hah !
wouldnt that be sweet ?
kaylie had arrived at ricks at 4 45 .
hello !
honey , im home !
she yelled .
all the kids seemed to act like ricks home was theirs , and he treated them as if they were part of the family .
they even came in when alex wasnt home .
nobodys home yet , kaylie !
came ricks voice from the basement .
she headed for the stairs , thats ok i wanted to see you anyway , rick was deep into testing a battle campaign for the game glory by conquest .
ironically he was commanding his army against the roman empire .
whats that , rick ?
she asked as she dropped her stuff and wound her arms around his neck from behind , in some sort of hug .
well , im battling caesars army for some of my land right now cool !
thats sort of what i wanted to talk to you about .
caesar raided your lands , too ?
har har .
no !
we got an assignment in history today ok , but can i finish this battle first ?
of course !
as long as you explain whats going on .
i cant wait to play this one when you finish it , it looks soooo cool !
rick spent the next fifteen minutes fending off four legions of romans as he explained how he had to build his empire by developing lands , paying workers , or using slaves who might revolt .
he had to research technological advances from the stone age all the way into the future , and battle or ally with any and all of the other historical powers that ever existed .
it was quite an in depth strategy game stuffed with actual history and just what he and kaylie both loved .
the idea had actually been hers .
over a year ago when they were playing a game of warcraft against each other , they decided they would like one with more detail on advancing civilization .
he had bought a similar game in hopes of meeting their wishes , but it fell way short in many ways .
so he took the idea and kept building on it until it surpassed both of their expectations and anything ever made in the genre .
he kept the details of the game completely hidden from her for the entire time he was working on it , but now in the testing phase , he knew it was inevitable that she would catch him playing it .
he was nearly finished when she got too close and he got a good whiff of her aroma and jerked back .
you absolutely stink , kaylie , he blurted , nearly destroying a building under construction .
gee , thanks .
dont worry about hurting my feelings , she joked .
she knew he was just being honest and she knew she reeked of sweat .
i wouldnt ever think of doing that , he smiled .
you smell like a room full of sweaty socks , he teased further .
i just ran home from practice am i supposed to smell like flowers ?
he mused at her choice of words home .
she felt like this was her home .
rick had to smile at that .
but if this was her home , he had fatherly duties to do .
youre supposed to take a shower , unless you roll in a bed of flowers i was going to shower when i got here .
i wanted to run .
well , i have to correct a few bugs in this code i was testing before i forget them all , so go get cleaned up .
it shouldnt take me more than fifteen minutes , and then you can help me get dinner ready and talk about your assignment , ok ?
ok !
she quickly agreed and trotted off upstairs .
rick finished his changes , saved them , and wandered up to the kitchen .
he laid out some half frozen chicken , got down some rice , broccoli , cheese , baked beans , and a few other things .
kaylie came down the stairs , flipped on the tv and sat down to brush the tangles out of her hair .
she had borrowed a blouse and jeans shorts from alexs closet one of the reasons alex had so many clothes in her room was that she and her friends often traded outfits , and probably half belonged to her friends .
quit playing with your hair and come help me , kay , and tell me about this assignment , rick said as he pulled a casserole dish out and set it on the counter , then started digging in the fridge for more stuff .
kaylie happily rose to her feet and pitched in , well , anderson was going to make us do a boring thing on the roman laws , but christy was saying she wanted to know about the normal life of rome and stuff , not just the royalty and she explained the entire task while rick stared at her in amazement , thinking she hadnt taken a breath yet and still hadnt answered his question .
so , chatterbox , what is it you want from me ?
he finally got a chance to ask .
oh !
well , we each have to answer one of those questions and mine is what did normal roman children my age wear ?
so i need to see if you know anything about it or where i can find the answer .
that sounds easy enough .
i have a few books downstairs one about roman dress , one about clothing of different historical eras , one but do they describe the clothing of ordinary , middle class kids ?
those sound like theyre about the upper class , like every other book .
we need to find out about the working families outside of rome itself the ones in the villages , towns , etc .
hmmmm come to think of it , ive not seen much about that , but i did have some that showed different styles and fabrics of different classes because i had to outfit all the characters in my game .
i do recall peasants and field workers , at least .
perhaps we can find what you need there and track down other sources for the rest .
ive got a lot of reference materials for all the research i did for this game !
ok , what about the servants and peasants ?
well , i believe they generally wore plain tunics , except the ones who tended to royalty they were often dressed as well as a prince or princess .
that doesnt help much .
no , i guess not .
you start cooking the rice and beans and ill go look for those books while im thinking about it !
she agreed easily and he hurried downstairs while kaylie dug out a couple pots and started the water boiling .
she was cutting up the broccoli when rick returned with two books .
he laid them on the counter and went to help her .
the rice was boiling , and rick tossed the broccoli in the other pan .
put those in that dish when youre done , he ordered .
um , ok , whats it going to be ?
she asked curiously .
a broccoli rice casserole , silly youve had it before .
oh !
i didnt know what was in it all this stuff ?
she pointed to the cheese , cream of mushroom soup , ham chunks , and spices .
i didnt know you put ham in it .
he smiled , we make it different every time ham is just as good as chicken !
kaylie finished putting the broccoli in the pot .
do i put this other stuff in here ?
he checked her progress .
no , after the broccoli cooks , drain it and pour it in this dish , then mix all the other things in .
dont mix it too much , though , its nice to let it all blend itself together so some bites will have more cheese and others more ham or broccoli .
all of this cheese ?
yes .
ok. im going to chop up some onions to put in the beans .
i dont know why she wanted beans with all this stuff , he mumbled , shaking his head .
they got all the food cooking , and began preparing the veggies for a salad , then met at the counter to look at the books while they waited for the first timer to go off .
here , rick pointed to the first drawing he came across , is a depiction of several peasant children .
some have no clothes , but here , he pointed to the next page , the older children are mostly in rough shirts , they appear to be about your age .
this girl is wearing what looks like a grain sack cut open down the sides and tied at the waist .
this boy just has on a loin cloth and this one has a loin cloth and a shorter grain sack shirt thing .
in this other book , there are illustrations of several types of clothing found during that era , but theres no way of telling who would have worn them .
cool !
this should help .
i hope .
this first book also has dozens of artists drawings from that time of the markets and malls , which may show actual middle class families shopping or browsing .
theres no way to deduce who is who with complete certainty , but you can make quite a clear judgment of some , like this , he stopped at a page of a mother and daughter buying bread .
they both wore dresses of cloth and had jewelry on , is most likely upper class , see the jewelry ?
while this a picture of a mother with a girl and boy , about eight and five .
all were barefoot with nothing but tattered rags for the mother , a loin cloth for the children , is most likely lower class .
id say !
they look pitiful !
where was feed the children during this time ?
she said sadly .
ding !
the rolls were done .
rick pulled them out , buttered the top , and turned on the heat lamp to keep them warm while kaylie continued to study all the sketches and drawings of ancient romans , completely rapt .
some of these drawings are really good , and really detailed .
this one picture shows the actual coins a man used to purchase something , and in this one you can see three little kids playing with what looks like a soccer ball !
omigod , they played soccer two thousand years ago ?
rick laughed , maybe .
im sure little boys have been kicking things around for many thousands of years , he joked .
how would they make a soccer ball ?
he studied the picture closely , that one looks like a ball of string .
ive seen balls recovered from ancient sites that were over twenty thousand years old made like that .
ive also seen some made of dried stomach sacks filled with straw or cloth .
kids have always found ways to make balls .
even leather balls were found over a thousand years ago .
wait till i tell christy , her assignment was to find out if they played sports .
just then the door flew open and christy clomped in , dumping her bag by the door .
speak of the devil !
rick exclaimed , and where does that bookbag belong ?
christy ignored the latter , but took offense to the former , what are you guys saying about me ?
she demanded .
come here , kaylie urged .
we found an ancient roman drawing with kids in the background playing soccer !
oh , cool , i need that !
she claimed as she studied the picture .
did you find your answer yet , kay ?
well , sorta , but its not definite kaylie showed her many of the pictures and the girls marveled over the attire of the age while rick went back to preparing food .
i just broke the state record in the high jump !
anna squealed as she burst through the door , shocking rick , who nearly dropped the casserole dish .
high jump ?
rick puzzled out loud .
i thought you did the long jump .
am i that out of touch now ?
jessie chimed in , she did she even jumped higher than coach simmons !
wow , i didnt even know you could high jump .
ive failed as a father to you , as he grabbed his chest in mock horror .
no , silly , i didnt know i could either .
the coach just asked me to try it for tomorrow because the other girls can get first and second in the long jump against that team , but nobody could beat their girl in the high jump .
i tried and jumped way over her best on my first try .
so the coach raised the bar and showed me how to do it right and i kept going higher and higher until he made me stop !
awesome , honey !
when are we eating ?
cant we talk about all this over dinner ?
it smells sooooo good in here , groaned jessica , rubbing her stomach .
wheres alex ?
anyone know ?
shes usually home by now , rick asked , getting nothing but shrugs in reply .
well , ok , i guess well just have to start without her .
kay , set the table .
christy , anna , jess , take your stuff to your rooms .
if shes not here soon , im calling her coach .
the girls pitched in and they soon had the table set .
just as everyone started to sit down , the garage door slammed and seconds later alex charged through the kitchen door , rushing toward the dinner table while trying to unzip her backpack .
you have got to see this !
she blurted , still fumbling with the zipper .
rick closed the distance and stopped her cold in her tracks , taking the bag from her .
sit down , calm down , and eat , alex .
then tell us about it , he scolded .
but you have to see it !
she protested , groping at the bag unsuccessfully .
sit !
alex puffed out her lip , but reluctantly sat down .
now , rick said as he calmly opened the backpack , what is it that we have to see ?
youll know when you see it , dad , alex was still angry but more in control , with her arms firmly crossed over her chest and her lip still sticking way out .
he found it immediately .
whats this uh holy !
its so light but so hard , so weird !
he began examining it more closely , turning it over in his hands .
these symbols , ive seen many of them , but some he kept turning it over in utter fascination .
the others gathered and stared too .
except jessica , who sat at the table , ready to eat .
put down your little toy , daddy .
isnt it time to eat ?
she said , uninterested in the cube , but intently eyeing the grub .
yes , yes , of course .
girls , lets eat .
what about the box ?
alex demanded .
well set it in the center of the table , so we can look at it , but nobody touches it , ok ?
they all agreed , sat down , and started passing food .
alex explained how she stumbled onto the object , garnering complete attention from everyone except jessica , and told about cleaning it , about chipping the floor , the rattle inside , the strange properties of it .
all the girls took turns speculating , fantasizing and theorizing as to the origins and contents of it .
its some kind of japanese puzzle box , kaylie proclaimed .
ive read about how the japanese used boxes like this to conceal secrets , hide keys or codes or this is no puzzle box , this is a solid piece of metal , alex interrupted .
no !
they were so finely crafted by samurai sword makers or something that they appeared to have no seams .
but if you applied just the right pressure on the right places it would slide apart or something .
and look , those are definitely japanese symbols !
no , not all of them , rick corrected .
some of those may be japanese , but some are chinese , greek , cyrillic , alphabetic , numeric , even roman numerals and hieroglyphics .
he picked up the cube and rotated it to show her .
and i see some that i have no clue what they are !
i see what looks like some mathematical formulas ...
i wonder whats with the spiral on one side ?
jodie said its from some alien space ship !
alex said , giggling .
the truth is out there !
christy intoned , following up with spooky noises .
jessica rolled her eyes , oh , please !
someone toss me a roll .
et phoned home already !
i saw the movie now lets just eat .
christy picked up a roll and started to throw it at her .
rick raised a hand and she decided it would be best to pass it in a more civilized manner .
i think alex started , and then paused in deep thought as they stared at her .
you know how cds or computer chips would look to someone a hundred years ago ?
like something alien ?
or hasnt been invented yet , jessica added .
dont be stupid , christy snorted .
think about it .
you dug it up it had soil encrusted on it it could have been dated by that .
we should go to the rec center and see if we can find a piece of rock that was stuck to it .
but , this thing is obviously from the past , so it could be proof of atlantis or some other ancient race rumored to have existed .
kaylie perked up , i read several books about the mayans who existed over a thousand years ago and were advanced in mathematics and astronomy and rumored to know how to do space travel .
there were writings about strange metals that they used .
they supposedly lived in central america , but some evidence suggested they lived as far north as canada !
you may be on to something there , kay , rick acknowledged .
i know some people who deal with mayan studies abby has done several digs of old mayan ruins , maybe we can get her to check it out .
kaylie smiled proudly .
oh yeah , you would agree with her , dad , alex protested .
just because you both sit and read and talk about those history books and stuff together all the time .
why dont you just kick me out and adopt her !
jealous ?
anna asked sarcastically .
drama queen , jessica added .
alex threw half a roll at jessica , hitting her plate and scattering casserole all over the table and into the floor .
alexandra williamson !
rick shouted , get up and clean that mess up right now !
alex sheepishly crawled from her seat and picked up the roll , carried it into the kitchen and slammed it into the trash , protesting and mumbling the whole way .
she snagged a paper towel and came back to clean up the rest .
thats better , alex .
kaylie may be right , or may be wrong .
you may be right , any of us could be right , or we could all be way wrong .
i actually know experts on this sort of thing and it sounds like a viable possibility .
we know experts on other cultures and languages too .
if you know any experts from the future , please , let me know and well contact them .
or aliens !
jessica giggled .
youre an alien !
alex yelled back .
enough !
rick commanded , standing up as jessica cocked an arm back , loaded with a very messy piece of chicken .
he picked up the cube , tossing it back and forth a few times while he gave her his best parental disapproving glare .
she slowly put the chicken back down .
girls , im going to call my friend .
now you can be good or ill bonk you on the head with this sounds like as good a use as any for it .
anna , get the video camera for me shes going to want to see it pictures probably wont do it justice !
ok , anna jumped up from the table .
the rest of you get clean up duty .
alex and kaylie can put up the leftovers chris and jess dishes .
ill be downstairs .
dont let me hear another harsh word or any food flying , he said sternly .
the girls grumbled and nodded .
satisfied they would be compliant , he headed down the stairs .
as rick came down the stairs , the basement came into view .
to the right was ricks make shift study , complete with four bookshelves from floor to ceiling , a big long desk with drawers in the middle and on both ends .
two computers , two chairs , a huge mass of papers , pop cans , and other unclassified clutter completed the scene .
the far wall contained the bathroom and laundry , with a hot tub between the two smaller rooms .
a two foot round pillar in the middle was the only obstruction in the fifty by thirty room .
the entire left side of the room was taken up by a huge crescent shaped 25 foot couch facing a nine by twelve foot tv mounted in the wall , with flanking stereo equipment and speakers .
a huge oval coffee table fit perfectly in the arc formed by the couch .
to one side stood a fully stocked fridge and bar with four stools .
the girls called it the theater .
rick called it heaven .
when anna came downstairs he instructed her to film the entire cube , one side at a time , from every possible angle .
she set up the equipment as he fired up his message software and attempted to contact ancientbabe .
he typed , ya there ?
got something that may blow your mind .
he turned to watch his niece videotape the cube for a few minutes , until a reply popped up , tickets for two to the caymans ?
i wish !
it would have to be for five , though .
whatcha doing ?
not much .
reading .
you ?
would you happen to be reading about mayan artifacts ?
nope .
romance novel .
ugh !
you got a video link available ?
yes .
whats going on you must really miss me !
the other girls came bounding down the stairs and gathered around .
anna finished taping and handed the video camera to rick , who quickly plugged it into the computer and transferred the video .
he started to send it to abby as she popped up on his screen .
wow , she looks pretty today !
kaylie said .
well , thank you !
abby replied .
kaylie apparently didnt realize she could see and hear both ways and it startled her .
and you look very pretty too .
i havent seen you girls in almost a year youve grown quite a bit !
she glanced down at the screen momentarily and back up , what are you sending me ?
this he stuck out his hand and anna handed him the cube .
he held it up for her to see .
alex found it , im sending a more complete and hi res video of it .
interesting .
what is it ?
we were hoping you might help us figure that out .
oddest thing i ever saw .
alex dug it out of a creek bank .
it had clay rock formed on it , so it may have been there a while .
its super light and seems indestructible , not even scratchable , he explained .
hmmm light ?
like aluminum ?
no , more like popcorn !
sounds like you need a geologist , metallurgist , or something .
what can i help you with ?
well , kaylie recalled reading about the mayan possessing some sort of strange strange metals , yes , but all of that and most of the other lore has never been proven .
not a single artifact has been discovered to confirm any of that or any evidence of space travel .
but it is written about by countless observers .
theres really nothing solid to compare it to except descriptions , and by the descriptions , they could have been talking about silver , platinum , titanium the list goes on and on .
the biggest problem is they basically vanished , or at least abandoned their temples and cities .
their people still exist , but have nothing to show of their great former empire .
they apparently took all these strange materials with them when they disappeared , only leaving writings about such things , along with incredible scientific and mathematical discoveries , some of which we still dont fully understand .
for example they somehow mapped the entire galaxy with more detail than we had up until about 1999 .
theres some very strange math on it , too , abby , as well as tons of writing and symbols .
the video finished loading and beeped .
hold on a sec , while i watch this , dear , she said and the screen went blank .
she called you dear !
teased christy .
is she your girlfriend ?
asked kaylie .
that is none of your busin rick started to complain , but the screen lit back up with abbys image .
rick ?
thanks , abby , rick said sarcastically instead of answering her .
what ?
she asked , confused .
nothing , just try not to call me dear in front of five curious , nosy girls again , ok ?
rick told her as he attempted to wipe the blush off of his face unsuccessfully .
so what did you find so quickly ?
its definitely not mayan , dear .
the girls all snickered and poked at him playfully .
what makes you say that , honeypie ?
rick played back .
she laughed .
well , sweetheart , did you notice the writing on it ?
uh , yeah .
thats sort of like what we wanted you to decipher she rolled her eyes , there are symbols , letters , characters and numbers that were all developed way after the mayan civilization disappeared !
she informed him tersely .
oh .
i should have realized that , he admitted sheepishly .
me too !
added kaylie .
ok , so were stupid and wasted your time .
im so sorry , abby .
its not a total waste , sweetie in mayan times this spiral symbol was interpreted as a traveling vortex , supposedly representing how they traveled through space , and how they all disappeared .
thats interesting , love , he kept up the joke as the girls continued to giggle at the two adults game .
isnt it , darling ?
ok !
alex interrupted .
you two are creeping me out now !
theyre just flirting , anna told her .
more like teasing us , jessica more thoughtfully and correctly pointed out .
dad knows we need a mother rick studied abbys features as they bantered back and forth .
she had a disarming smile that instilled instant trust among the otherwise hard , sculpted features .
her hair was a deep black , her large eyes a muddy brown , which along with her dark complexion gave away the fact that she descended directly from american indians .
she was muscular , most likely due to the fact that she had spent nearly all 38 of her years digging in the hot sun , yet unmistakably feminine .
not an ounce of fat had collected on her over the years .
yes , rick thought , she was an incredibly alluring woman , and that was not the only reason they had maintained a casual romance over the last half dozen years .
abby always scoffed at the idea of being a mother though , and certainly resisted the thought of being a wife , afraid of the sedentary life she was sure would follow .
i dont know why you would even want a mother , she lectured , with that irresistible smile , with the father you have .
i cant say ive ever known three happier , healthier girls in all my life .
what on earth could i offer that your dad cant ?
the girls pondered that question a few seconds before anna finally spoke up , you could tell us about guys !
abby nearly choked laughing , what ? !
youd want advice from a 38 year old woman whos never even had a steady boyfriend ?
besides , who could possibly know more about guys than a guy ! ?
and he does tell you about guys , doesnt he ?
she shot back , glancing at ricks face .
anna nodded , scrunching her face up to show displeasure , yeah , he does .
he tells us to stay away from them !
abby laughed harder , taking a minute to compose herself .
i couldnt possibly offer any better advice than that !
look at me im 38 and still happy !
she told her , then altered to a more serious tone , honey , is there anything you would honestly rather ask me than your dad ?
even though shed directed the question at anna , all the girls shook their heads no .
abby smiled , i didnt think so .
heck , who do you think i go to when i need personal advice ?
jessica looked up at him , reverently , dad ?
really ?
she asked .
really !
abby answered but youre lots and lots of fun and we could go shopping with you and stuff and it would be awesome if you were always here instead of a week here , two days there jess !
im always off digging up bones , remember ?
besides , look at my wardrobe im not a fashion guru , its all tan and denim utilitarianism for me .
we have a lot of fun when there , i admit , and thats never going to change .
do you think we would have as much fun without your dad there ?
silence answered her .
thats what i thought !
now give him a hug and kiss for me and lets get back to this cube !
rick mouthed the words , thank you , and blew her a kiss shielding it from the girls to avoid more ridicule .
during the entire discussion , the kids had been passing the cube around , banging , poking , squeezing and even talking to it .
so , what do you think about it ?
asked rick .
well , some of the languages and symbols are oddly familiar to me .
ive uncovered things with those same markings before but i dont understand them .
i usually consult walt stromberg hes an interpreter for the un and has a passion for linguistics and cryptology .
do you care if i send him a copy of this video ?
no , as long as he can keep it a secret .
ok , hold on ...
there , its on the way , ill send a message to him as well so he knows its private .
let me check to see if hes online .
she typed a message to him and nearly instantly got a reply .
hes on im going to invite him to our chat he has no video .
rick shrunk her image and moved it up to the top right corner and dragged the message box open larger .
figgeritout joined them in the chat window .
hi , walt , abby wrote .
hi , abby , and this must be rick ?
fraggenstein could only be a gamer .
yes , this is rick , glad to meet you , walt .
rick typed .
so , whats this intriguing mystery ?
walt wasted no time asking .
i sent you a video didnt you get it ?
no .
wait , its coming now .
im not on the information superhighway , like you , im on an old dirt road well , ricks daughter found this cube , its weird and it has writing all over it .
all i could make out was a few mayan numbers .
what mayan numbers ?
rick asked .
oh , i forgot to tell you because i dont know what it means , but did you see a bunch of dots and dashes grouped together ?
yeah like braille ?
exactly , it looks kind of like braille .
those are mayan numbers .
they have a system based on the number twenty .
it starts at the bottom , up to four dots across , and when it reaches five , they replace it with a bar and start on the next line .
four bars equals twenty .
like i found three numbers together , they are thirteen , twelve and seven , which translates to ... a long pause ensued as she calculated the answer , exactly 5567 whats that mean ?
rick asked .
i dont know , thats why i didnt mention it , but i noticed there are others by each entry .
lets see , we have a negative 2150 , a negative 8521 , 131 , and 1755 that i recognize immediately .
i dont get it , rick said .
i do !
chimed walt .
those are dates , this is amazing !
well , theyre most likely years , at least .
theyre not mayan dates either , the mayan calendar was based on a 260 day year , which is thirteen months of twenty days each , which makes their years much shorter than ours , and that wouldnt make sense here anyway !
enough of the history lesson , lets hear what you think and why , abby insisted .
yes .
ok , well , these passages , at least the ones i understand , come from that time period !
as in ?
rick asked .
well , you know these mayan symbols are from around 8000 bc , these glyphs are from around 2000 bc , greek , latin ... all of them , especially the extinct languages , correspond to that general time period when the language was in use , but some ive never seen , like one at 3350 , 4570 , 566 , etc .
wait , rick tried to interrupt , 4570 ?
thats not possibly a date , neither is 5567 .
well walt paused for dramatic effect , wait until you hear the translation of the ones i do understand !
waiting rick answered as abby typed the same at precisely the same time .
this is loosely translated , as all of them basically say the same thing , but not exactly !
get on with it walter !
abby wrote , just as he finished .
it says , time is critical follow the path the vortex is the key .
rick and abby read the words simultaneously , their silence showed their confusion .
rick broke the trance first .
so , if youre saying what i think youre saying , some of this writing is from tens of thousands of years ago and some is from the future ?
thats not possible .
i just translate , you historians and archeologists interpret !
hey , can i keep this video ?
i see some symbols that may provide a key to deciphering a few texts i never could translate !
walt asked excitedly .
certainly , walt , as long as you dont show anyone unless we say its ok. of course !
he agreed .
thanks , walt , abby said .
no problem .
ill be around .
im going to spread all this out and see what goes where .
let me know if you figure anything else out or need more help , this is very intriguing .
they said their goodbyes to walt , and abby and rick instantly went back to the video link .
i dont believe it !
a sober abby proclaimed .
i dont understand it , much less believe it !
rick said , still dazed .
did i find something like important ?
alex asked , stunned .
i wish i could answer that for sure , honey , but my guess is yes .
alex stuck her tongue out at kaylie , for teasing her about her future theory .
kaylie may have been right , too , rick allowed .
kaylie stuck her tongue out at alex this time .
and youre both still jealously fighting for his attention !
anna teased .
too bad hes got the hots for abby !
christy observed rather loudly .
enough !
rick startled the girls into silence .
i love all of you and still have room for abby too , he winked at her .
ok , so let me hear it , rick , what makes you think kaylie may be right , too ?
inquired abby .
well , he diplomatically pulled alex over to one knee and kaylie down onto the other , wrapping them up in a three way hug , i know most , well , all of this , but let me try to put it together .
all the writings about the mayans talk about the prophecies and renewal , their purpose was supposedly the balancing of the universe or something like that .
what if those texts were just slightly misunderstood ?
what do you mean ?
abby said , unable to follow .
what i mean is even the bible is subject to thousands of different translations and interpretations for thousands of different sects .
lets hypothesize that time travel was actually travel , prophecies were actually facts from the future and renewal means fixing , or altering , the future .
balancing the universe could also mean bringing time into sync , or , according to some physicists , bringing alternate universes into sync .
the mayans had strange metals , technology ... this cube definitely qualifies .
they had advanced mathematics .
i suppose time travel would require that !
everything points to the mayans being from the future if you look at it all that way .
how else could anyone explain some of the descriptions ?
it all starts to make perfect sense now , as impossible as that seems .
these mayans could have gone back in time .
but why ?
to stop world war iii ?
kaylie offered .
i dont think so .
world war iii would be more likely to happen in this century , not three thousand years from now .
we would have obviously lived through that to develop time travel .
maybe time travel was developed by aliens !
anna submitted , jokingly .
maybe it came from uranus !
jessica joyfully jabbed .
come on , rick struggled to fight back an enormous belly laugh , thats all possible too what ?
that it came from annas big butt ?
im gon na shove it up your stop !
rick shouted , twisting the enigmatic object from the two as they fought for control of it .
wait , youre saying it could have been from the past , future , and aliens ?
so weve learned absolutely nothing about it then ?
christy deduced .
future aliens visiting the past , jessica concluded comically .
i think i saw that movie on sci fi last week , right after the one about the mutant creature from the sewers that ate half of new york .
youre all dorks !
jessica pronounced , giggling .
why dont you go watch a movie and leave us dorks alone so we can think and figure it out ?
anna growled .
jessica turned to leave , sounds good to me .
let me know if you have any in tell ... i ... gent thoughts !
she spat and skipped to the oversized couch , where she plunged over the back and settled face down just within reach of the remote .
chapter 7 following the path ok. the perturbed father attempted to regain control to organize their efforts , im not saying aliens did it im saying at this point we have to consider all possibilities that have any connection to what we know .
what do we know of atlantis ?
blank faces stared back at him .
abby stumbled for a reply , figuring none of the children had any , um , nothing really .
i mean there are some individuals in my field who are convinced it existed , but even they have to admit there is no proof of the lost city at all , just myth and rumor .
i can try to find someone who studies the myth .
abby , what do you know of the myths ?
they suggest that atlanteans were extremely technologically advanced , some theories are that they lived under water for thousands of years to avoid some cataclysm on earth .
some suggest they just happened to have expanded to underwater before the human race was annihilated by a meteor and they lived there for thousands of years until earth was habitable again and repopulated the planet .
some say they actually lived on what is now antarctica before the earths axis shifted and put them under ice , and some believe they lived on a continent that sank during an exceptional period of tectonic activity .
so you see , theres not a lot to go on thats what they said about the mayans a hundred years ago , just a myth , right ?
well , thats true so when do they think this civilization existed ?
rick asked .
anywhere from 500 bc to 2,000,000,000 bc .
hmm are there any dates on the cube that happen to go back an extremely long time ?
i may have seen a five digit , possibly a six digit number or two .
those could be up to 64 million years .
wow , alex muttered , this is big check to make sure , could you ?
he asked curiously .
then perhaps we can consult with some of these myth chasers to see if anything clears up or gets cloudier .
the only fantasy nuts i know are asleep right now , but ill do that tonight , abby promised .
that still leaves us with the enigma itself the cube .
what could it be ?
a message ?
an actual time machine ?
a clue ?
directions ?
rick speculated .
i want to know whats in it , alex stated .
i think i can answer those questions kaylie submitted confidently .
all ears suddenly turned to her expectantly .
i didnt say i could solve everything !
chill everybody .
i just said i think i can answer those questions !
she straightened back up and calmed herself as the others waited expectantly for her answer .
when she was sure she had their attention , she started , well , is it a message ?
definitely time is critical .
is it some kind of directions ?
yes follow the path .
a clue ?
the vortex is the key and its even possible that a time machine is inside .
but , we dont know why time is critical , where this path is or what it leads to , or what this vortex is the key to .
jessica strolled over to rick , cupped her hands around his ear and whispered something for about ten seconds , then stood back , proud of herself .
brilliant !
rick congratulated .
best idea ive heard all night !
a chorus of what ?
came from each mouth in perfect harmony .
jess decided we should all go out for ice cream , and then rent some movies , and abby could leave right now and be here in time to watch them with us and stay for the weekend !
as if someone pulled a plug and let all the air out of the room , everyone released their breath in one big sigh .
well , i dont have any plans this weekend , why not ?
itll take about two hours to drive there , ninety minutes if i fly abby decided quickly .
in a space ship ?
alex asked .
you could be here an hour ago in a time machine , christy contributed .
go to the future first and tell us what this thing is !
added kaylie .
and dont forget to write down the lottery numbers for tomorrow , anna suggested .
ok girls , lets let abby get moving itll already be 9 30 or 10 00 by the time she gets here !
yes .
im going to hurry .
ill see you all shortly .
bye .
abby waved , blew a kiss and signed off .
i havent seen abby in like a year , i thought maybe you broke up , kaylie said .
she didnt even recognize us , christy observed .
weve gone to see her the last four or five times because she was busy , and you girls have grown a lot in the last year .
dont be hurt by it .
we went to two digs with her last summer and back again to the second one just two months ago for spring break .
shes been there nearly nine months and just finished .
oh , christy seemed to understand .
hurry up , go get ready , girls !
rick climbed the stairs , shoved his feet into his shoes , and exited through the kitchen door into the three car garage .
the 65 mustang was out of the question , as was the dodge viper .
looks like door number three !
he announced .
he punched the third button on the wall to open the farthest door , housing the beastly old dodge caravan .
at least it was pimped out with a dvd player and an x box , he mused .
he climbed in and wheeled around front to await his five passengers .
the gang leisurely consumed their ice cream in the minivan then spent thirty minutes in wal mart before hitting the video store , returning home just before 9 30 .
they filed downstairs to wait for abby .
again , the strange relic was the center of attention , each trying to magically awaken the secret power they knew it possessed .
the doorbell rang at 9 45 and anna hopped up with jessie to race recklessly up the stairs .
jerking it wide open , they startled abby .
she stood there in worn blue jeans , knees and cuffs frayed , and a light brown tank top .
a duffle bag that appeared to have been dragged through the entire amazon jungle was slung over one shoulder like a sack of toys on santas back .
she had a leather purse flapping loosely over her other shoulder and a giant bag of cheese puffs in her arms , hugged to her body like a pillow .
the girls quickly ushered her in and guided her down the stairs .
she abandoned her purse and duffle bag near ricks door .
when she reached the couch downstairs , abby attempted to squeeze between rick and kaylie , then rick and alex , but neither would give ground so she finally settled in between anna and jessie jessie was all too eager to get some space between her and her cousin .
the entire gang continuously poked and prodded the cube , trying to figure it out .
nobody seemed to be in any hurry to watch the movies they had selected .
jessica finally grabbed the cube from an off guard christy , stared intently at the spiral design on one side and announced , watch this !
the other girls began teasing her as she intoned , follow the path , over and over .
she then began tracing the vortex with her finger from the outside to the inside .
youre so stupid !
alex uttered scornfully .
the cube suddenly started to vibrate , and jessica hastily dumped it on the table , backing off slightly .
then they all edged closer for a better look as the sides appeared to split and unfold .
rick pulled all the curious heads away from it .
dont get near or touch it we dont know whats happening , he warned .
the top unfolded to the left and each side slowly peeled away and laid flat .
one of the flaps unfurled further , completing an eighteen by 24 inch rectangle with a six inch square attached to the right containing another spiral .
all seams vanished as if on command , forming a smooth surface .
the square at the bottom contained seven curious items , and the entire surface of the rectangle was riddled with maps , diagrams and instructions , all in english .
curiosity overcoming apprehension , rick came forward to examine the contents .
the others clutched him and held onto each other in both fright and wonder , staying well behind rick , but peering around and over him .
rick cautiously touched one of the items on the bottom square and when it didnt explode , he hesitantly picked it up .
the object looked like a deep red crystal , about two inches long , shaped like a finely faceted teardrop .
he held it and closed his fingers around it it seemed to radiate heat .
satisfied it was not dangerous , he passed it around .
maybe we shouldnt touch this stuff , dad , alex timidly protested .
i dont get the feeling this stuff is meant to be harmful , abby replied for him .
it came with instructions .
rick then plucked a thin device off the square .
it resembled a cell phone without a display .
it had five buttons arranged in a cross pattern .
he laid it back down on the table and lifted what appeared to be four necklaces with shiny crystal sphere pendants .
under the tangle was a coin a shiny and barely worn gold coin .
its dated 1755 , he read , i wonder if that was when it was buried ?
it couldnt have been earlier , abby declared , causing a groan from the others .
each of the girls , except alex , picked up a necklace and checked them out .
the chains appeared to be made from some sort of metal fiber , but were flexible as a thread , only slightly thicker .
there was no clasp , obviously fitting over the head .
the spheres attached to them were completely reflective one silver like a pinball , one gold , one blue and one red .
like the mysterious metal of the cube , the spheres appeared impervious to damage their shiny surfaces were an awe inspiring display of perfection .
alex picked up what was once the cube , it now appeared to be a solid , unbendable piece of metal .
while the outside of the box had seemed holographic , the inside was finely etched , much like her trophies and plaques , but with unimaginable detail .
dad , she nudged him , how big will your projector magnify ?
i think 25 times .
why ?
i guess thats better than nothing , but we might need a microscope , she said while rising to her feet without taking her eyes off of the metal .
she shuffled over to the projector , positioned it as far as possible from the wall , flipped the switch on , and laid the metal across it , dialing in the maximum zoom .
she began to adjust the image to fit the entire wall , and then studiously approached .
kill the lights !
alex demanded , i think i can read this maybe !
abby immediately flicked off the lights , while the others continued to study one item or another , remarking , questioning , and imagining their purpose .
abby took the opportunity to steal alexs seat by rick , settled in and watched over his shoulder as he tried key combinations on the slim device .
she looked down at the last item on the table , the coin , while the girls each marveled at their reflections in the globes and the odd , silky feel of the necklace chains .
what could be the significance of 1755 ?
abby pondered out loud .
there was a date matching that on the cube .
maybe its a clue ?
i dont know .
this is all a bit difficult to comprehend !
rick shrugged .
he sat back , put his arm around abby and exchanged items with her , see if you can figure this one out .
abby turned , inspected , poked , rubbed , tapped , spoke to and breathed on the piece like a caveman trying to figure out an mp3 player .
nothing seemed to work .
they all continued to trade items , each inspecting while alex intensely scrutinized the inscriptions on the former box itself bit by bit until she was satisfied .
the rest of the group had forgotten her in their obsessive attempts to make sense of their piece of the puzzle .
alex suddenly strode over and held out her hand , give me the universal chronicler , please .
twelve eyes stared at her like puppy dogs at a whistle .
the what ?
anna finally questioned .
this she indicated the slim device which christy was currently examining , holding it up to her ear like a shell , expecting to hear something .
christy warily handed it to her .
alex continued , is a universal chronicler , it records information and everything the omni directional , four dimensional recording devices observe when activated .
she looked into the crowd of eyes appraising her as if she were juggling bowling balls with her feet .
alex pressed her thumb into the center button and counted , one , two , three seemingly from nowhere came a display screen roughly six inches above the top of the chronicler , leaning at a 45 degree angle .
a menu appeared with options of record and playback .
she explained , its really quite easy to use simply select which , or all , of the odfds necklaces you want to start recording , and it will record everything it sees until you turn it off .
or , it will automatically copy any recordings from them while they were displaced .
i assume that means in another time .
these things are made to keep records of time travel .
the odfds record 3d images for ten yards in every direction at all times and can hold up to four centuries of video wow !
kaylie exclaimed .
thats not possible !
christy concluded .
maybe not now rick intruded , but thousands of years in the future well , smarty , what about this ?
jessica challenged , holding the red teardrop .
that is the time stone .
it operates the displacement machine .
uh , the what ?
anna was still totally baffled by the whole thing .
the time machine , you dork !
jessica rudely clarified .
what time machine ?
the time machine the map leads to , alex revealed .
stunned , everyone swiveled their heads toward the wall at once .
but i dont quite understand it all , alex admitted .
well , lets take a look at it , rick said as he got up and led the crew to check out the display .
the map was no more than a hand drawn bunch of squiggles with two main lines intersecting another at different points and traveling in different directions with an x near the farthest left line .
it then had an inset of a simple maze , twisting to another x .
well , rick said after a brief study , that makes perfect sense !
really ?
alex excitedly asked .
no , he admitted , squishing her hopes .
so like , uh , what do we do now ?
kaylie sighed .
i know a treasure hunter who works with usgs hes had a lot of success decoding treasure maps , offered abby .
i should have guessed , snickered rick , you know someone who does everything , dont you ?
it comes with the job .
he rolled his eyes , motioned to the computer , lead us to your king arthur .
abby hopped in ricks chair as he stood behind her with his hands on her shoulders .
the girls gathered on both sides .
she punched in a new name , icku , and saw he was online .
she quickly typed a message , rob , got a map for you its algebra , your favorite !
she then asked rick to take a picture to send rob .
rick wasted no time getting the camera and snapping a few pictures , trying to get a shot without the writing , now more deeply concerned with anyone knowing what they may have found .
whats icku stand for ?
kaylie asked curiously .
what do you mean about algebra ?
christy added , interested in math .
well , icku stands for i seek au .
au is gold .
the girls giggled at the acronym .
algebra is just a joking way treasure hunters refer to maps where they have to find x. oh !
christy said , amused .
rob finally answered just as rick came back , satisfied with a picture to send , which he quickly loaded for her .
what ?
found my map to the holy grail at last ?
indiana jones found that already , she replied .
but this may still intrigue you .
sending got it printing it out ... she gave him a brief rundown , including where they found the map and rick asked her to add that a coin from 1755 was with it .
what is this ?
someone draw it with a crayon ?
rob finally asked .
whats the matter , rob , intimidated ?
abby challenged .
ive found treasures buried under a hundred feet of volcanic rock on the ocean floor with only a description from a nearly blind and drunk monk about an island passed two days prior to the sinking of the ship that held it .
this is a piece of cake !
he boasted .
ill leave the line open for ya .
whos paying the bill on this one ?
um ... ricks daughter found this one , we dont know what its for .
figures ... he harrumphed .
rob , the coin is gold spanish , i think 250 years old .
do you think it has possibilities ?
he didnt respond for a few seconds , then what condition is that coin in ?
looks brand new .
we have reason to believe it was sealed up the entire 250 years .
why ?
that , alone , would pay more than five times what i would normally ask for my services hint hint .
you looked it up , eh ?
well , well consider it , abby wrote .
so i dont get paid otherwise ?
you know ill find a way , rob .
in fact , if you find this one , im almost positive rick will part with that coin real quick .
theres something youre not telling me , abby , rob accused .
and that alone should drive you , right ?
abby came back quickly .
she was right .
rob loved a challenge and intrigue doubled the fun .
you know me too well .
now i wont sleep tonight until i find it .
thanks a lot !
thats what friends are for tell rick not to get his greasy fingerprints on my coin .
seal it back up for me please .
thanks , rob replied confidently .
thanks , rob !
abby answered .
thank me at 4 00 am when i wake you up .
you would do that ?
here , heres ricks number she gave him the number and told him to quit wasting time .
he left to start his search , promising to keep them up to date through messages , and promised hed call if he found it .
chapter 8 dont look back ... in time !
well , girls , lets go watch these movies , rick suggested to the gathered crowd .
ive got a better idea , alex said , tapping the chronicler , lets watch these movies !
everyone was more than excited about that idea , so rick easily caved in , sure , lets go to the couch .
he led the parade to the gigantic couch and they all settled in around alex .
alex popped up the menu again on the strange device and quickly selected playback , which caused a list to pop up on the clear display .
she immediately selected the first entry jan 7 , 5565 18 55 .
first , a nose appeared , and then backed off to reveal a man of about 25 years .
he was slim , but soft jawed , and had thick , wiry brown hair parted on the left side and well trimmed above the ears .
he possessed small , almost squinting eyes compared to his bushy brown eyebrows .
he spoke through a small mouth topped by a thin moustache that extended half an inch over each side of his upper lip .
dr. jonathan taylor here .
testing , one , two .
yes , we have a success , he cried jubilantly .
this is it , the first test of the universal chronicler .
with these necklaces , he held up three necklaces , the fourth was around his neck , we will be able to record all that occurs within the displacement machine .
he took a small , proud look at something out of sight , then continued , now that im reasonably certain the system works , we will schedule our first trip .
within the next couple days alex adjusted the display , zooming out and rotating around the room .
all eyes were glued to the images .
there was literally nothing within view that appeared normal to them except the human and a cup on the table .
by looking around , they could also see the man was not very big , judging him to be about 58 , but surprisingly sturdily built totally incongruent to his nerd like facial features .
he was dressed in what looked to be the consistency of aluminum foil , but obviously not stiff or metallic .
or was it ?
he seemed completely comfortable in the outfit .
anna ran her fingers over the soft silk like metal of the necklaces and thought it might be the same material .
in the corner , there was a podium like console which had an unbelievable 3d display of a brontosaurus bathing in a small lake .
amazing , said abby in awe , followed by similar comments by all .
this concludes our test of the universal chronicler , the man ended and the menu appeared .
alex flipped through the next few entries , perhaps a couple pages of them , before starting to see other dates .
she stopped at one that brought several gasps october 28 , 75,252 12 01 .
holy cow 75,252 !
christy exclaimed .
alex quickly chose it from the menu .
just as we expected , murmured dr. taylor as a view of wasteland filled the screen .
there were barely any shapes visible in the rust colored dust .
this is the precise location of the earth union science facilities of new paris , built exactly thirty thousand years ago .
as you can see , this entire city is gone .
forty five million people lived in this city in buildings that stretched up to three thousand meters high .
now its flat , he said sadly .
my next mission is to find out precisely how and when it happened .
what do you think , daddy ?
jessie asked somberly .
i dont know what to think , he shook his head .
the video continued for a few minutes as the doctor collected soil samples .
the menu reappeared .
i dont think i can handle any more of this today , kaylie said as a tear slowly rolled down her cheek .
i think reality has just changed for all of us , abby said calmly , trying to comfort her .
go to the last entry , alex , then were turning this off and watching a movie , rick instructed .
alex began flipping through dozens of pages per second , taking more than a minute before noticing the scroll bar that would take her to the bottom with a simple movement .
she found the last entry , march 21 , 1756 20 45 .
she hit play .
at first , the chronicler was in view .
dr. taylor had evidently just selected to record and shut down the display .
alex adjusted the view to look at him from the front as he breathed very heavily .
he placed the chronicler on the folded out box , on the bottom square , and slowly traced the swirl that caused it to revert back to a cube .
this could be my final hour , he whispered dramatically .
i was planning on sneaking into the cave tonight its been eleven , no twelve days .
i thought he would give up by now , but hes mad !
he let out an obviously painful cough as he got up .
now it became evident to the viewers what caused his distress a bullet hole in his side .
alex deftly spun the view around to see a matching exit hole on his back , then returned it to his front again .
he now clutched the cube tightly under his arm and started to walk down a path , continuing to whisper , he was lying in wait for me , but i managed to knock him down with a blow to the head with this he held up the cube , tapping it .
he wanted it bad enough , so he got it but not before the blast of his pistol got me .
i should have checked but wasnt thinking .
i have to try to reach helens now , i have no choice i wont survive out here like this .
he suddenly reacted to a noise , turning to check it out .
his eyes widened and he began to run as fast as he could .
faint sounds of beating hooves began to invade the sound of his breath and the crunch of twigs and leaves .
alex tried to locate the source of the sound , but could not .
taylor then darted off the path and through the woods .
not ... gon na make it , he panted .
he ducked behind a tree just as alex focused on a horse and rider in the distance .
he looked scary and sounded even scarier .
i know youre out there , taylor !
i know i winged you , too .
just give me the box and well go get ya patched up !
he bellowed as the doctor stood frozen until the figure took off in the opposite direction .
thank god hes as bad at tracking as he is at physics , taylor muttered painfully .
and thank god for the trees , or the moonlight would have given me away .
resignedly , he began reciting instructions as if by rote , dr. jonathan taylor , earth union science administration .
if you should find this , you should destroy it immediately then something seemed to have occurred to him .
he paused , and then continued through the woods , noticeably weaker .
ok , he continued , grunting out most of the words , nothing can destroy it in this age , probably not for another fourteen hundred years or more , so i guess im just going to pray that if it is discovered before then , it is not misused he put his hand on the necklace , this is one of four omni directional cameras that interface with the machine , he laid the cube on the ground and traced the spiral on top , waiting for it to finish unfolding .
once opened , you could see the other three necklaces , the stone and the chronicler .
he hefted the stone , this is the time stone it powers the machine .
he stopped momentarily to catch his breath it seemed incredibly difficult to speak each word .
this , he laid a single finger on the chronicler , is the universal chronicler .
it records all four cameras automatically whenever you return from a trip in the machine , or manually , like now , until you remove the necklace or manually stop it .
to end a trip , simply hold it in your hand and say return .
these instructions are all written ...
he rested a few moments and then trudged on , coming to a stream .
he was carrying the open box carefully .
i destroyed the method of time displacement it is not possible to change the past now , nor is it possible to change the future in it without a special command .
however , the information in displaced time could cause you to change the future inadvertently , so be very careful .
each time anyone uses this machine from now on , in this mode you will enter a copy of this time space , if you will , and it is contained in memory indefinitely .
i was in the process of destroying the ability to enter future time space and that is the reason bignose , er , bergamiser , put this hole in my side .
it is dangerous to see the future i found that out the hard way .
i encourage you to never travel to the future .
if you find this , bergamiser , may you rot in hell for carrying out your evil plans .
but its not too late to develop a he coughed , noticed it was blood he was coughing up and sighed .
im he forced a chuckle , history !
be careful with time its dangerous .
theres so much you need to know but im im out of ... time , hah !
its necessary to learn before you he gasped , clutching his chest , barely recovering this time .
its ... time ... time to go he dug into his pocket , took out a coin and placed it with the other things , and then took off the necklace , which abruptly ended the recording .
any questions now ?
a glazed faced rick asked somberly .
did he die , daddy ?
jessica asked with a sad expression , full of empathy .
duh !
anna answered for him .
ok , lets watch a movie , rick attempted to change the subject .
no daddy !
we have to find out what happened !
jessica implored .
we have to find the time machine !
alex added .
there could be more answers in the stop , rick demanded .
we cant find out anything else right now but theres more on the chronicler alex continued to protest .
i said stop .
you saw that list .
he snatched the device and shut it off , theres fifty to a hundred thousand or more recordings on this thing , it would take years to watch them all .
relax , take a chill pill !
they all stared at him like he just kicked their dog .
abby tried a different approach .
how about one of you get some bowls for the cheese puffs and glasses for drinks , and one of you get the pepsi out of the fridge .
and anna , set up the dvd for us , ok ?
each considered her words for a brief moment , and then christy and jessica went upstairs .
kaylie and alex walked over to the fridge while anna stuck a movie in the player .
moments later , they had food and drinks laid out in front of them , and anna sat down with the remote to start their movie .
finally , abby got up to turn off the lights and anna hit play , cranking the stereo system up considerably louder than normal , watching rick to see if he protested .
while the movie played , the girls continued to whisper about the items , and what they had been used for .
by 1 00 am , christy , jessica and anna were out cold , snuggled together like a litter of newborn pups .
kaylie was leaning forward , intensely into the movie , alex was propped up against ricks shoulder , half asleep , and abby now leaned on his other side , also barely awake .
without complaint , rick slid out , leaving alex to right herself , pulling abby along with him .
im going to bed , abby told him drowsily .
lets check the messages first .
go ahead , i couldnt read it right now anyway , she said , swaying groggily .
she put her arms around him and slumped into a long , unstable hug , then backed off enough to plant a light kiss on him and dragged herself up the stairs after winking and saying , dont be too long , as suggestively as she could while nearly zombiefied .
rick strode to the computer and settled comfortably into his cushioned chair .
hearing the computer monitor come on , alex roused and stumbled over and plopped down in his lap as he checked the messages .
there were four new messages 12 00 , of course no match in usgs .
12 14 , no topo or streams or rivers matching both lines .
12 35 , checking satellite images , found something , trying to get infrared and x ray access .
1 02 , you wont believe me if im right .
rick glanced at the clock 1 08 .
he figured rob was still on and wrote a reply , rick here , whatcha got ?
just as he finished typing , he received a file .
rob replied , got the picture ?
just did , go ahead and explain .
i trust my coin is well preserved ?
rick was studying the picture .
it was a satellite image from space of the area where alex found the cube .
the picture was huge .
another file arrived , then another .
ok , i dont see anything my coin ?
its fine sealed in carbonite , like han solo , rick answered .
ok. look at the image you gave me , then this photo .
see the bike trail ?
it matches one line pretty closely the middle line is the stream but the stream doesnt match , rick said quickly .
waterways can change drastically in 250 years , was robs easy reply .
that made sense to rick .
ok ... whats the other line ?
well , that took some effort .
i had to merge infrared and x ray images , but if you look at the next picture , youll see .
rick was already looking at it .
wow , he said out loud , causing alex to perk up and check it out .
that , my friend , is the forgotten trail .
it appears to be buried by perhaps two to four feet of earth , but it leads to the next picture .
rick looked at the next image a view of a mountain .
and youll really like this next one its a geological survey of this cave system you might find interesting .
rick received another file and quickly loaded it .
he studied it carefully , comparing it to the inset map and discovered it matched perfectly , except ... wheres the branch that leads to the x ?
that , i cant find .
i did find some history of the caves , but this study was over a hundred years old and the last mention of it was shortly after .
i pulled off property details , which is kind of standard if youre planning a dig .
i wasnt sure if you wanted that or not .
let me guess .
taylor ?
wow , close !
the taylor foundation , a firm in raleigh , owns the land .
as far as i can tell , that is their only holding .
it may be a wildlife preserve or something odd , but ill send the info !
good .
id like to see what kind of background these caves have .
all i can tell is that its completely grown over you got the picture .
there were no minerals found inside , either maybe mined out ?
hey !
how did you get the name of the owner ?
did some research of my own it was a lucky guess , really .
oh , i get it .
can you send me a picture of the coin ?
i know someone who would probably jump right on it .
rick chuckled .
hold on a sec he got up , took some pictures of the coin and sent them as rob relayed the information about the current maps with gps coordinates as well as the taylor foundation information .
rick printed all the information .
kaylie then lumbered over and asked what was going on .
rick took one look at her and decided not to tell her anything until morning because she looked so tired .
i think its time you girls get to bed .
we have a track meet and a soccer game tomorrow .
both girls nodded , gave him hugs and kisses , and plodded up the stairs .
rick said bye to rob and thanked him .
rob promised to continue researching and update him on anything else he could find .
he shook anna awake and told her to go to bed .
she whined , but agreed , and then promptly closed her eyes .
he jolted her awake again and she realized he wasnt going away so she reluctantly headed to bed .
he then wrestled jessica into his arms and woke christy , eventually following her up the stairs and laying jessica in the bed beside her .
worn out himself , he finally retired to his own bed , where he slipped quietly in beside abby and quickly entered dream world .
chapter 9 soccer dad rick awoke to bouncing and shaking .
two giggling girls were using his bed as a trampoline .
abby screamed at first , but soon joined in the effort to force him from the bed .
he grabbed jessica with one arm and christy with the other , pulled them down on the bed , and proceeded to relentlessly tickle them into oblivion .
abby jumped on his back and they grappled and fought for two minutes before anna , hearing the commotion from the kitchen , finally came in and beckoned them to the breakfast table .
the smell helped .
before leaving his room , he could already taste the muffins , but when he turned toward the dining room , a wonderful buffet was laid out a heap of scrambled eggs , plate full of sausage , bacon and ham , a pile of french toast , a stack of toast , muffins of many different flavors in a basket , jelly , butter , syrup and a tray of assorted fruits , as well as three different types of potatoes hash browns , chunks and fried slices .
rick put his arms around abby from behind , embracing her and whispering in her ear , i think theyre trying to tell us something .
what ?
i think they like you being here ?
i thought you said they often fix breakfast ...
they do , he pointed in amazement , but not like this !
look at it .
ill bet every utensil is in a precisely measured spot .
abby put her finger to her chin , facetiously saying , it is quite an unusual display for young american girls quite a peculiar species , eh ?
he joked back .
she laughed playfully , i didnt mean to analyze them like cavemen sometimes i feel like that would be the most appropriate analogy .
they certainly act like cavemen sometimes .
lets eat and enjoy it now though , while it lasts .
savor it while we can .
one day they may get their wish and youll become the evil stepmother they always wanted to have so they can hate you , he jabbed , hinting a bit much .
yes , definitely , she said , ignoring half of his statement .
as they approached the table , alex and jessica jumped up and politely pulled out their chairs as if they were royalty .
anna then delicately poured the appropriate drinks and reclaimed her seat .
kaylie and christy each rose next and placed a napkin in rick and abbys laps before returning to their seats .
alex stood next , reaching for some food to dish out for them .
wait !
rick yelled , giggling and smiling broadly .
what is going on , alex ?
alex feigned shock , why , i was only going to serve your breakfast to you , sir !
what would you desire on your plate this morning ?
she answered with a straight face , and then bowed for dramatic effect , awaiting his reply .
whats next ?
is someone going to chew our food for us as well ?
he asked .
anna raised her hand as if she were in class and giggled , um , thats my job !
christy snickered and added , im supposed to wipe your mouth .
ok , why are you doing this today ?
because we love you , came at him in five part harmony , as if rehearsed .
riiight !
you sure its not because abbys here ?
no , jessica blurted .
well , i mean were glad shes here , and wish she was here every day , but thats not why we did it .
we did it because we love you !
anna interrupted , as if to hide something .
ok , rick isnt dumb and he knows you girls better than you know yourselves , so just tell him what you want and lets eat !
rick said , undeniably blunt .
well , kaylie started as rick motioned for everyone to pass the food around , weve been up since 7 30 , and we were downstairs , and we found the maps and read your messages eggs please !
and um , well , we wanted you to take us there after breakfast rick sighed , sorry , we cant , we have places to go today , but we will go afterwards , at least to see the cave .
everyone whined and moaned .
what we need to do first is get equipment together cave ?
annas eyebrows shot up to her hairline .
im not going in no cave .
yes cave .
thats why we cant go this morning .
it would take entirely too long and we have a track meet at noon and soccer at 4 00 .
please dont be disappointed and dont think you failed this morning this breakfast is totally incredible !
yes , amazing !
abby added with a full mouth .
you didnt even tell me you found it , rick , she scolded him .
why dont we just drop anna off at the track , she doesnt want to go to the cave anyway !
alex suggested .
anna shot a very menacing look her way .
no , rick waved her off .
we will all go to the track meet and the game , no question about it .
you girls dont work so hard at these sports for us to not be there to support you .
ok , a resigned kaylie asked , so what do we need to do then ?
and tell us about the caves ... christy added .
they went through the rest of the meal intently listening to his explanation of all he had learned the night before as well as all he intended to find out today , then went through a list of things they required for their anticipated cave adventure .
the girls bubbled with excitement , gladly taking assignments to prepare them for the trip , even anna was gallantly awaiting the opportunity to battle huge bats , which she was certain dwelled within the evil cave .
it was 10 30 when they finished cleaning up breakfast .
rick reminded each of the girls of their role in spelunking preparation and they darted off to acquire the necessary equipment while he took abby downstairs to show her the information .
urged by abby , rick decided to call the taylor foundation to see what they could learn about the property .
hello ?
was the peculiar response .
um , hi , is this the taylor foundation ?
oh , yes of course , sorry , the man sounded as if he had been sleeping , which he had .
im sorry , i must have been given the wrong number is there another number i should call instead of your home phone ?
oh , no , said the venerable voice on the other end , this is the only , yes , the only number to call .
are you calling about the property ?
i certainly hope not , because its not for sale and never will be .
its imperative that you accept that and do not trouble me about it further .
i have grown weary and impatient with your people calling me time and time again .
understand that its not for sale , at any price , period !
rick held out the phone and stared at it as if it had grown arms and slapped him .
he finally said to the old man , what do you mean ?
someone is pressuring you to sell the land ?
but why ?
its not worth a lot exactly !
its a hillside thats what i tell them .
they offer millions i say no they offer more .
its unnerving .
same man most of the time fellow senior citizen , like myself , although he seems to have a bit more lilt in his voice than i for the last twenty years or more ... why am i telling you this ?
i dont know .
speak up , boy , what do you want ?
rick quickly thought of the best story , well , im doing a study and telemarketer ?
the man shot back .
oh no !
an academic study .
i received information that your foundation is over two hundred years old and i wish to learn about it .
its one of the oldest in the area .
id like to learn about its history who set it up , who runs it and ... why ?
i see .
of course .
i dont see why that could be a problem .
well , hmm ... where to start ?
the beginning , preferably ?
rick prompted , feeling as if he had to nudge the mans brain into gear .
of course !
well , helen taylor started the foundation in 1785 it was written into her will , naming the terms and the person who would control it as well as four others , always maintaining at least five people to take charge and replace their name with a new one .
it was her late husband , johns wish .
its really an endowment , you know .
it was started with ten million dollars , and always growing with inflation .
the executor keeps the interest after a certain percentage is funneled back into it .
its over two billion dollars now .
wow , whats the the purpose ?
well , the only purpose i know of is to keep from selling the land !
the land is worthless , you see , estimated two years ago at a 35,000 hunk of hillside with no access right of way .
mustve been special to the poor old sod !
yes , it must have ... well , im the thirteenth executor and we have all been ordered to maintain a log of our transactions and report earnings and such each year as well as inquiries .
the damnedest thing is , someone has been trying to buy the worthless lot the entire time , for hundreds of times the value .
there was a long pause .
do you know who ?
rick asked .
who ?
no , cant say that i do dont care either .
if i sell the land , the endowment goes to charity and i lose my job .
you know how much interest there is on two billion dollars ?
they offered me four million to sell the land a while back .
i laughed !
cant say i blame you .
seems foolish to even attempt to buy you out .
do you mind if we check out the property ?
rick asked as nicely as possible .
you planning on buying it ?
of course not .
im not foolish !
rick answered quickly .
well sure , then .
ive seen no rules about trespassing .
its fully insured , too .
i see no reason why not .
its as if mrs. taylor wanted someone to explore it someday rick was elated , do i need to contact you or get a letter stating permis contact ?
why , no , just walk right on up to it .
i hear the caves are fairly interesting and completely stable otherwise , its just a steep hillside .
no minerals have ever been found in the caves or anything .
ive always speculated that it was just special to the couple because they got their first jollies there or something .
is there a fence or anything ?
fence ?
why , i dont know .
no , i suppose not , or there would be some upkeep on it .
no , there must not be anything but weeds around it .
worthless hunk of land , it is .
anna came down the stairs and told rick it was 11 10 , and she needed to be at the track soon .
he held his hand over the receiver and said , put your stuff in the van and tell kaylie to load hers too and everyone else pack the cave gear .
well be up in a minute !
he turned back to the phone , well , mr ?
johnson , edsel johnson !
johnson , i thank you so much for your time .
you have been most helpful .
i hope to check the place out today , its all so intriguing to me !
im glad i could help , and glad you werent trying to buy the blasted thing , rick chuckled .
goodbye , mr. johnson , thanks again for your time !
no problem .
good bye .
rick hung up and smiled at abby .
intrigue , surrounded by mystery , wrapped in an enigma she said .
yeah yeah , definitely , he replied distractedly .
well , we have a track meet to go to lets move it !
they gathered the girls and their things , piled into the minivan and left for the school .
on the way , alex took out the uc as they now called the chronicler , and started to play with it .
honey , rick said , i dont want you using that thing at the meet or anywhere in public for that matter .
why ?
she asked .
its dangerous enough to have knowledge of the future , but even more dangerous to have actual technology .
we have to keep this a complete secret .
there are seven people who know about it already thats probably seven too many .
theres some reason why taylor thought it should be destroyed .
do you understand ?
yeah , i guess so .
can i stay in the van and play with it ?
its not a toy , alex .
i know , dad .
the windows are tinted , someone would just think im watching a dvd or playing a video game or something ... ok , but you will keep the doors locked and keep it out of sight completely .
and use your cell phone to let me know if youre getting out so i can watch you .
oh dad , she whined .
he turned and glared at her .
ok , ok !
can i stay , too ?
kaylie asked .
me too ?
chimed christy .
yeah .
same rules apply to you , too .
nobody opens a door or even a window without me watching .
got it ?
can we have the keys to run the air ?
alex asked .
alex giggled , like we would want to be seen cruising around in this hunk of junk !
she rolled her eyes for effect .
rick pulled into the parking lot minutes later and easily found a spot where he could watch the van just to be safe .
rick had always been a little over protective of the girls he readily admitted to it but the girls were all used to it , and he hoped they actually appreciated his total devotion to their safety .
rick took the extra key with its own key ring , one he had made just for this purpose the girls often wanted to stay in the van and watch a movie or something while he went in to shop or they were stranded at a hopelessly boring event .
he left the van running , cracked the sunroof barely a quarter inch and joined abby , anna and jessica after reminding the girls of the rules and closing the doors , checking each lock personally .
jessica pulled rick and abby to a place she claimed would give them the best view of annas events .
sure enough , they were near the finish line for all of her running events and only 25 yards away from the high jump pit .
rick sat down with abby and jessica bracketing him .
they sat silently for a minute , waiting for the events to start .
jessica was already bored .
ok , this is fun .
how about we go get some hot dogs and drinks and candy ?
rick asked , seeing her boredom .
sounds good to me !
his daughter answered instantly .
ill stay and watch the stuff , abby offered .
rick pulled out his phone .
ill see what the girls want on the way .
lets go jess we dont want to miss any of the excitement .
jessica rolled her eyes .
rick dialed alex .
uh , hello dad ?
she answered , perturbed that he was already checking up on her .
what are those boys doing getting in my van ?
he accused angrily .
what !
theres no dont give me that , i saw three boys go around the other side of the van and disappear just now .
was that really your plan ?
is that why you wanted to stay ?
dad !
i he burst into laughter , im joking honey !
sheesh !
what would you girls like from the concession stand ?
he asked .
uh she was still shaken from the joke , we just ate like a couple hours ago ...
so you dont want anything ?
drinks ?
candy ?
alex asked the other girls , eventually giving him a list of drinks , candy , and nachos for kaylie .
they were already in line to order when he hung up .
they placed their order and walked over to the van to give the girls their food .
kaylie slid the door open when they arrived , excited .
ohmygod !
rick , you have to see some of this stuff , we just watched an entire herd of dinosaurs !
it was shhhhh !
she instantly lowered her voice , but continued , so neat !
and cavemen and christy butted in , you should have seen some of these creatures rick .
a lot of them had fur !
weve always assumed all the dinosaurs had scales , but half of them had fur .
some of them were soooo cute !
cavemen were stupid , dad , alex chimed in next .
yeah , kaylie continued , we saw one smash his own hand with a rock , and then he showed another guy what he did by smashing his hand again !
stupid !
must have been one of your ancestors , jessica commented with a giggle .
thats really cool , kids , but keep your voices down and promise me you wont look at any future ones , ok ?
they nodded agreement .
he then considered something else , also , a lot of things in the past may be violent or cruel i want you to promise to stop any of them that are , ok ?
like if they start killing each other or get eaten by a giant lizard or something ok , dad , but we already watched a bunch of cavemen beat each other up , but it was almost funny , like watching wrestling and the three stooges combined !
thats what i dont want you to see .
i wish the thing had some kind of parental control it does .
i mean there are options to hide certain content or skip or black out scenes .
its all in the instructions but i havent tried any of it yet .
here , let me look , he said .
she handed it over and he found the options .
he quickly checked the options to filter out and censor vulgarity , violence and sexual content , and then handed it back .
alex rolled her eyes , im not that immature , dad .
you girls be careful with that thing , you hear me ?
there are still things that are dangerous to watch .
ill call you in a while .
call me or write down anything you think is important as well , ok ?
they all agreed .
rick closed the door with a slightly uneasy feeling of what they could still see , but decided to trust them a bit more .
he and jessica strolled back through the crowd and sat back down beside abby .
anna had joined her .
i dont have an event until 12 45 .
coach said to join my family if i wanted until then !
thats cool .
you want some of my drink and hot dog ?
rick offered .
a little a bite or two .
i might get sick if i eat too close to a race .
whats your first event ?
abby asked .
a 200 meter relay .
then i got the 100 relay , high jump , 200 , then the 100 is last .
the high jump and the 200 are at the same time .
how do you do them both then ?
jessica asked curiously .
i have to either finish the high jump before the 200 or ask to do it after .
coach said it wont be a problem .
i hope not .
itll be nice to see five blue ribbons today , rick said while chomping on a hot dog .
you think i can win all five , uncle ricky ?
coach says you can .
im just a freshman ... and taller and stronger and faster than everyone else on the team , jessica interjected .
dont get cocky on us or anything though , rick warned , shaking his fist at her .
whatcha gon na do , beat me up , uncle ricky ?
if i have to humble you , i will , little buttercup !
dont call me that !
she protested .
dish it out , but cant take it , eh , buttercup ?
youre lucky i have food in my hands or id kick your butt !
she threatened hollowly .
youre lucky i paid for it or id get it all over you while i kick your butt , he stuck his tongue out and shook his head like a bratty child .
anna laughed , stop !
youre embarrassing me !
good !
you need it !
hah .
abby said with a sly smile on her face .
you sure youre not their brother instead of their father ?
why , thank you for the compliment , rick said happily .
i didnt realize i looked so young !
you dont , you just act like it , jessica told him .
ouch !
its ok , dad , we love when youre silly !
she added .
and immature , said anna .
look for more cavemen , im fascinated by evolution !
christy said .
i want to see something from the roman empire .
we do have that assignment to do , remember ?
kaylie argued .
those dinosaurs are so incredible , though !
alex cried .
one more , then we get to pick some , christy agreed .
ok , ive picked enough , you go ahead and do some , alex said as she handed over the uc .
christy checked through the previews of several entries between 200,000 bc and 50,000 bc , and stopped at one around 80,000 bc .
hey , these guys look a lot less ugly .
they dont look so hairy either .
theyve got on those weird shiny coats like dr. taylor had on , she observed the other girls closed in .
christy selected and played the file .
the men on the display were all wearing the same metallic looking fabric they had seen the doctor wear in his lab , and were all milling about as if preparing for something significant .
the majority of workers stopped and focused suddenly on a single point .
christy tried to zoom in on it , but couldnt tell exactly what was going on .
conversations abruptly stopped as all the workers focused on a count down timer that suddenly appeared clearly in the distance .
a monotone voice could now be heard , six , five , four , three , two , one .
in a flash of brilliance , accompanied by a rumble that shook the display , came a dart trailing fire into the sky .
a missile ?
kaylie asked in shock .
looks that way , but why ?
alex questioned they stared as the roar died and voices could once again be heard , like a success .
if my calculations are right , a brown haired man with an enlarged nose stated , it should impact after the planet passes mars .
perfect , do you think it will really alter the course enough ?
asked another man .
we spent eighteen months calculating to the nearest millimeter it should impact earth on may 30 , 75,252 at 4 15 am , to be precise , the first man answered , entirely too satisfied with the prospect .
and youre sure nobody will detect it ?
of course not , its next orbit around the sun will be in the third millennium bc , then the 76th .
nobody has the technology to detect it until its upon them because it will enter the second orbit and approach earth hiding in the shadow of mars !
whats the predicted damage ?
total .
its roughly half the size of the moon and at the speed it will be traveling , thats more than enough for our experiment .
christy was dumbfounded .
experiment ?
they call destroying earth an experiment ?
how could why ?
i mean the voice continued for thirty minutes as the two men discussed speeds , forces , orbital changes and even chemical reactions as the silver suited crews proceeded to sweep the area of any trace of their existence .
we got ta tell dad about this !
alex finally declared and grabbed her phone .
didnt that guy look familiar to you ?
kaylie asked no one in particular .
anna was thirty yards from the finish line when ricks phone rang .
he pulled it out and hit the button to answer but continued to watch the race .
anna was ahead by three yards , they had been even at the start of the straight stretch , but now she was pulling away handily .
she increased the lead to five yards as she crossed the line , her other teammates were on the way , cutting across the field to help her celebrate .
rick , abby and jessica were all cheering when rick realized he had turned on his phone and put it to his head .
hello ?
he finally managed to say .
its about time dad !
whats going on there ?
anna just won the 4x200 relay !
sorry , whats going on there ?
you have to see this dad , alex insisted .
what honey ?
anna has another race in ten minutes , cant you just explain it ?
well , i guess so , but its really important that you see it , too .
how important ?
he asked , knowing the girls tended to put false weight on things in their lives .
end of the world as we know it important .
i warned you not to watch anything in the future , he reminded her .
we werent .
remember the video we saw where taylor went to the future and the earth was a cinder ?
well , we were watching an entry from 80,000 bc and we saw what caused it !
alex explained what she had seen in the video over the next few minutes while anna was getting ready for the 4x100 relay .
rick interrupted , honey , thats definitely amazing , but anna is about to run again .
just write down the entry for me .
i do want to see it for myself but i cant do anything about it now , can i ?
youd kill me if i ran off during one of your races , wouldnt you ?
no , i guess you cant do anything about it now , and yes , i would kill you , she admitted , although definitely sounding defeated .
i guess it can wait , we have all the time in the world if this stuff is real , right ?
are you girls gon na stay in the van all day or are you gon na join us anytime soon ?
were way too interested in this right now .
call when annas gon na do her last event so i can watch , ok ?
ok , will do .
be careful with that thing , alex .
im serious .
what was that about ?
abby whispered in his ear .
wait until annas race is over a few seconds later , the gun sounded for the start of the relay .
rick watched as the first three girls got a slight lead in the first three legs , then annas turn came up and she simply trotted away to grab the baton and left the second place girl in her wake from there , coasting to victory .
jessica continued to cheer for her cousin as rick and abby sat back down to continue their conversation .
im kind of worried ... rick started .
about ?
well , alex just called and told me about an experiment they watched in 80,000 bc to alter a planets course to collide with earth seventy thousand years from now .
we already witnessed the aftermath of that , i think , and im not too sure that kind of thing is really within the kids ability to cope .
it hit them hard i wonder what else they might witness on that thing ?
abby studied him for a few seconds , rick , thats why youre such a great father and im never going to be a mother .
you seem to like to worry , i dont .
personally , i think theyre extremely mature .
well , at least alex and kaylie .
but i may be naive in such matters .
you know them far better than anyone , so youre the best person to make that decision .
so , do you think they can handle it ?
rick pondered a minute , yeah , i guess they can , but i dont think they should watch it happen .
and i dont think they could handle too much knowledge of the future either .
you already laid out rules for that , rick , and those girls rarely ever break your rules .
i dont think you need to worry .
says ms .
oblivious ... shush .
i cant not worry , he admitted , betraying the fact that it was a burden to him , regardless of whether he liked it or not .
maybe not , but remember what you said about your own childhood ?
your mother let you take your own chances and learn from your mistakes .
she admitted that it was often painful to watch you get hurt or screw something up , but it was best for you but girls are so much more affected by emotional trauma he argued .
dont give me that , abby said indignantly .
they only are if you shield them and dont allow them to experience any .
look at me youre a hundred times more emotional than i am !
riiight thats why you cant commit to a relationship , he smirked .
she bowed her head but maintained a sly grin , ok , you got me there , but i can handle the end of the world and i think they can too , if you let them .
you dont give them enough credit for their maturity .
rick pondered a moment as he watched another race begin , yeah , youre probably right .
he leveled a gaze and wicked grin at her , maybe theres hope for you being a mother yet !
she ignored the implication , you know , you let them watch some rated r movies ... yeah , some , i admit , but only after ive watched them and made sure theres nothing i find harmful .
i believe movie censors are a bit extreme sometimes and there are some really important messages in the ones i allow them to see maybe you should do that with the videos watch them first ?
she suggested .
i like that idea .
he thought a moment , then reached into his pocket and grabbed the phone , dialed alex and put it to his ear .
time to go , he said as soon as she answered .
ok dad , were coming , she easily agreed .
he watched them get out and walk to where he sat with abby and jessica .
where is she ?
alex asked after several minutes .
high jump , jessica answered .
i thought her last event was the 100 , kaylie stated .
it is , rick replied , but i thought you girls should do something besides sit in the van all day .
dad !
we were just starting to learn about the romans and gauls and stuff !
yeah , but it was mostly the stuffy upper class , christy said .
all they did was plot and scheme against each other , just like the rich today .
we need to see how the real people lived .
it was still cool !
we got to see a real gladiator fight in the arena and a chariot race , kaylie recalled excitedly .
gladiators ?
thats what im worried about , girls !
some things like that may be a bit too gory or violent for you , rick worried .
oh please , dad .
the chariot race was more violent than the gladiators !
really ?
yeah , really !
they actually tried to kill each other , unlike the warriors !
kaylie explained .
kaylie found some peasants being killed for stealing , but we skipped that before it happened .
we didnt want to see that , but the races were really exciting and cool !
christy told him .
the dinosaurs and cavemen were really the coolest though .
you should see how huge some of those things were !
and dr. taylor almost got squashed by this one its toe was like the size of my whole body !
thats when we learned about the necklaces , they can tell if youre in danger !
his started to beep and flash and taylor explained as he was moving that it was a ten second warning .
once he moved out of the way , it stopped and that huge foot slammed down right where he had been standing .
we also found that it will automatically return you if it senses you are about to be killed within two seconds , but he said it isnt one hundred percent foolproof .
like if you get shot , it can only tell if you will be killed instantly from that wound .
you can also talk to each other it took a while to figure it out .
it looked like he was talking to himself because it transmits the sound directly to your brain or something .
he kept saying red , where are you ?
and stuff , then we found a recording of the same time with someone using the red necklace and he was answering by saying gold first for the gold necklace .
the instructions said nothing about these features .
i wonder what else they do ?
alex finally paused long enough to take a breath and see ricks reaction .
i intend to find out everything we can about that just be patient honey .
i dont want you getting too worked up over all this stuff .
it will be so cool going back in time though shh !
he quickly silenced her with a hand over her mouth .
remember what i said about keeping it a secret .
sorry , dad , i just and what makes you think i would let you go back in time ?
daaaad !
she protested .
kaylie leaned over and whispered with concern , us too ?
you wont let any of us ?
i dont know yet , honey .
were not talking about a circus or amusement park here were talking about something closer to running with the bulls .
i want to know everything about it before i even consider it and we dont even know if it actually exists .
then you best be studying fast !
christy demanded hotly .
rick raised an eyebrow at her , letting her know she didnt make the rules .
she sunk back down a bit .
we will find it , today , kaylie confidently promised .
well talk about it later , when we know what were talking about , rick ended the conversation .
they knew not to push any further .
the extended family focused on anna , who was starting the high jump .
she and another girl each had to go early because they were entered in other events .
anna easily won with only one jump at 54 , and then went to prepare for her final event , the 100 meter dash .
she was visibly nervous and kept looking up at her supporters for confidence .
she eventually settled in at the starting line and stretched her long legs out before fitting them snugly into the starting blocks , as everyone held their breath for her .
the gun went off and anna seemed to hesitate for an eternity , coming up at least a full tenth of a second later than the other girls .
ricks breath caught in his throat he knew how much this race meant to her it was definitely her favorite .
anna quickly recovered and turned on her speed , pulling up to fourth place after just forty meters and passing third place just ten meters later .
as she gained top speed , she cruised by second and first , and lunged to the finish a full stride ahead of her competition , stomping to a halt fifteen meters later .
overwhelmed with her own accomplishment , anna instantly turned and fled the track , leaping the fence at full speed making the coach consider her for the 110 meter hurdles race and two stepped the stairs up the bleachers , diving into the waiting arms of rick .
i did it , dad !
i did it !
she shouted , oblivious to all the eyes on her , tears streaming down her face .
dont you mean uncle ricky ?
he teased her , squeezing her tightly .
she backed up enough to look him in the face and give him a silly look , then buried her face in his shoulder and bawled some more .
dad , she said again , defiantly .
i hate to break up all the drama , jessica said sarcastically , but it was only a meet , anna , not the olympics !
yeah , but its high school and im just a freshman , anna spat back .
let her celebrate , brat !
alex said .
were all proud of you , honey , rick said , kicking jessica in the back of the leg .
she grunted , fine !
ill go get the gatorade bucket !
she teased .
does this mean we win ?
christy asked , confused .
anna wiped her face all over ricks shirt and cleared her throat , well , that puts us up by three points and there are only two events left .
one is long jump and we should win all three places in that , so we basically cant lose now .
cool !
christy was now excited for some strange reason .
then lets go to the soccer field , kaylie decided suddenly , since its over now .
we have to wait until the meet is over and someone he squeezed anna , wins the most valuable athlete trophy .
omigosh !
i could win that ?
did anyone else win five events today ?
he asked .
umm , i think im the only one entered in five events .
wow !
the game starts in an hour i have to be there in thirty minutes kaylie notified him .
if were not done in twenty minutes , well talk abby into taking you yeah , i can take you .
no problem , abby offered .
why cant i just go by myself ?
or even with alex or christy ?
because im responsible for you .
thats not fair its just across the street !
kaylie argued .
you know my rules .
yeah , but why cant i walk across the street alone ?
its not just a street its a major highway youre paranoid , she accused .
rick grinned , if you were hit by a car youd wish id been paranoid .
im thirteen !
he feigned shock and realization , wow !
youre a grown woman then , huh ?
you could easily dodge a speeding vehicle .
i must be stupid !
no , she sighed , youre not stupid , just over protective .
i care , thats all .
you should be glad , abby commented .
she lowered her head , sorry , i am glad you care .
thank you !
they stood to watch the last two events end .
annas team won both of them and the coach motioned for the team to join him at the finish line .
anna reunited with the team as abby took kaylie and christy to the soccer field .
the trophy presentation lasted longer than anticipated .
at 4 30 , anna was called for the sixth and final time , to receive the most valuable trophy .
she hoisted it proudly over her head as rick snapped several pictures to go along with the ones jessica had taken during the meet .
rick and the girls finally arrived at the field close to 5 00 the game was already at half time so they stayed in the van a few minutes so anna could change clothes .
alex insisted he watch the video of the missile launch .
anna was watching over the back seat when she suddenly piped up , what is old man anderson doing there ?
old man who ?
rick asked .
she leaned over the back of the seat to point , there !
rick backed up the video and paused it anna had finished changing and came out from behind the seat .
that guy , she indicated by touching his big nose , mr. anderson , seventh grade history teacher .
you all know him .
this guy is a lot younger though i dont know .
alex ?
he opened the door and showed her .
that does look like him !
kaylie said he looked familiar earlier , but hes got to be like eighty or something now .
we always joke that hes been around since the beginning of time .
well , i have a hard time believing thats him .
this guys name is ferdinand bergamiser , and he was trapped in 1756 with taylor .
hed be over 250 years old now , its got ta be a coincidence , rick decided .
yeah , it could be his descendant or something , anna said ancestor , you mean , he corrected .
yeah , its weird seeing a younger person who could be older than old man anderson .
ok , girls , lets go find abby and christy .
theyre probably wondering where we are .
they found abby and christy sitting on the sidelines on a blanket and joined them .
rick asked how the game was going .
theyre winning four to two !
kay has two goals , christy cheerfully announced .
whos hungry ?
an anxious abby asked .
ive been waiting forever for you guys to show up so i could go get something to eat .
after taking orders , she sped off to the concession stand with christy and jessica trailing behind .
the second half was underway when they returned with refreshments .
kay scored another goal , her third .
its five to two now !
alex updated them as they reclaimed their spots on the blanket .
the coach moved her to defense so some of the other girls could get some experience up front , anna said .
just then , kaylie stepped in and stole the ball , running halfway up the field with it until she found a teammate ahead and lobbed the ball out in front of the girl , who caught up and quickly poked it between the opposing goalies legs six to two .
she could score if she was the goalie !
rick proclaimed in amazement .
the other team didnt even get a shot at the goal for the remainder of the game .
kaylies team put in two more past a dejected and frustrated goalkeeper and went on to win eight to two .
go see what kaylie would like to eat , rick instructed anna so she could get it before the concession stand closed .
she shortly returned with two hot dogs , a bag of chips , two orders of fries , a candy bar , and a large drink .
alex laughed as she pulled out the fries , i guess she was hungry ?
well , one of the fries is for me , but she asked for four hot dogs and two fries this is all they had left .
shes going to be mad !
what a pig !
alex commented .
kaylie finally joined them after shaking hands with the other team .
she griped all the way to the van about only having two hot dogs .
chapter 10 some things arent so easy you stink !
jessica rudely announced , indicating kaylie .
jess !
rick admonished , you know shes been running for almost two hours .
what do you expect ?
kaylie , do you want to stop at the house and take a quick shower before we go ?
shes not that bad , anna offered .
thats because you stink , too !
jessica blurted , with two fingers tightly clasped on her nose .
thats enough jess !
rick scolded .
shes been running too .
sorry , jessica apologized , but they do stink .
whatever , kaylie finally answered with a mouth full of fries .
ill just change back into my clothes before we get there .
no use taking a shower when we could be getting really dirty again anyway .
besides , i want to get there as soon as possible , dont you all ?
everyone agreed , including jessica .
ok. just hold your nose then , jessie ill roll a window down , too , rick joked .
the girls giggled .
i cant wait to go back in time .
im going to pet a dinosaur , first thing !
alex remarked , excitedly .
im going straight to the roman empire !
christy firmly proclaimed .
a muffled affirmation came from kaylies mouth , me too !
im going to the future !
anna decided .
im with anna , the past already happened !
if we wanted to know about it , we could read a stupid book , jessica sided with her cousin .
girls , even if we do find a time machine , nobody is going anywhere unless ive checked it out .
thoroughly !
party pooper !
abby stuck her tongue out at him .
oh no , not you too ?
well , i want to go as much as they do heck , probably more !
id love to visit all the sites ive dug , especially the mayan and incan ones .
there are so many mysteries we could solve so easily then youd be out of a job , rick countered .
hmmm never thought of it that way .
let me make this perfectly clear we are exploring a cave tonight .
we are not exploring time .
we dont even know what we will find or what we are looking for .
im finished !
kaylie announced , after stuffing the last couple fries in her mouth .
how long till we get there ?
its just a couple minutes , believe it or not .
its less than a mile from our house well , the path is at least .
ok , she said , pulling her clothes out of her bag , im going to the back to change .
kaylie emerged just as rick pulled to a stop at a dead end street , carrying her sweaty uniform like it was radioactive waste and threw it at jessica .
ewww !
jessica shrieked , flailing her hands to brush herself off as if bees were attacking .
kaylie just laughed , satisfied .
rick popped the back hatch and he pulled out a bag of old clothes , jeans and long sleeved shirts , and began passing them out .
whats this for ?
christy asked as he handed her an outfit that was way too big .
just put them on , honey , he told her .
she looked at him weird , but i already have clothes on , you want us to change ?
no , put them on over your shorts and t shirt were going through dense brush and your legs and arms will be shredded if you dont .
oh !
ok .
besides , it may be cold in the cave .
rick handed out small flashlights to everyone and stuffed a package of batteries in his backpack and added rope , a medical kit , chalk , matches , handfuls of snacks , a few bottled drinks , and a hatchet .
he pulled out a kerosene lamp and checked to make sure it was full .
he also stuck a distress transmitter into his pants pocket , not sure if it would even work underground .
abby loaded the leftover snacks into her pack , which already held all her standard survival gear , climbing gear , and archeological tools and implements .
the girls each carried their own water bottle , a pack of matches and at least one flashlight , but were otherwise unencumbered .
abby rubbed some insect repellent on everyones exposed skin .
i think were all ready , she declared .
just about , rick fumbled through the remaining mess , making sure they had it all .
he tugged on a thick pair of work gloves and unsheathed an eighteen inch machete he had tied to his belt .
now were ready , he posed comically , holding the oversized knife out like a sword .
abby fiddled with her gps device and turned around to get her bearings .
this caused rick to instantly think of the maps , which were in the front of the van , and he ran back to get them .
they all checked and rechecked everything , then locked the minivan and headed toward the woods .
ok , everyone stays five feet behind me , no exceptions !
ill be swinging this around at weeds and briars and whatever else gets in our way .
he dramatically sliced the air in front of them with the machete for effect .
if you get hit by it , our trip is certainly over !
he made a pained face for emphasis .
all the girls nodded with respect at the half rusted blade .
he motioned to abby , ok , show me which direction we need to go .
that way , she pointed straight forward , is due north , and we need to head ten degrees east of north that way , she pivoted slightly to the right .
ok , how far ?
she punched at the device for a few seconds , only 0.4 miles .
no sweat !
lets go !
nobody lags behind if you need to stop , make it known .
he stopped and turned around , looking each of them in the eyes , and do not get near this blade .
id hate to accidently hack off one of your ears ... or arms they all made frightened faces just what he wanted .
he smiled inwardly as he furiously lashed at the first weeds and moved into the woods amidst flying debris .
what if we run into a bear ?
kaylie asked , half curious , half worried .
just grin at it !
rick answered between whacks at the brush .
ok , davy crockett , abby snickered .
rick chuckled and kept hacking , wishing he had brought a weed eater instead .
they traveled over a fourth of the way in just less than fifteen minutes when the brush seemed to give way to forest .
rick sheathed his weapon and asked if anyone needed a break , sweat dripping from his brow .
they looked at him as if he had sprouted horns .
what ?
he wiped the sweat with his sleeve .
weve only walked like a few hundred yards , anna teased .
he peeled off his sweat soaked shirt and threw it directly in her face , here , hold that for me please .
thanks !
she let it fall to the ground and grinned , unfazed by his antics .
ok , i guess we move on .
abby , you can lead until we meet resistance again and im required to battle our way through !
he said gallantly .
abby checked her locator and started through the forest .
within five minutes they could glimpse the hillside through the trees past an open field .
rick had been busy carving marks in each of the trees they passed and didnt notice until they were in the clearing .
stop , abby instructed as she consulted the gps .
we should be 25 meters from the cave entrance now !
they all looked at the hillside , it was steep and rocky .
rick imagined it would be almost impossible to walk up the loose rock .
abby studied the map and terrain , finally locating two rocks , nearly thirty feet tall , side by side .
there !
she said as she tromped through the waist high grass with everyone following .
as they neared the rocks , rick called ahead and ordered them to stop while he cleared a wide area in front of the entrance , and check your clothes for ticks .
i suspect you each have a few undocumented passengers right now .
a few seconds later , ewww !
i got two !
alex screamed .
rick chuckled as each girl squealed or screeched at the discovery of another parasite .
abby , a veteran of many wilderness treks , calmly removed her trespassers .
she instructed them to take off their extra pair of pants , turn them inside out and check for more , and then look inside their socks and shoes .
by the time the girls finished their de ticking , rick had finished clearing a twelve foot area around the entrance .
they all found resting spots while rick checked his clothes .
alex walked toward the entrance .
the two huge rocks must have plunged down from above , resting about five feet apart , making a tall , narrow slit of an entrance to the cave beyond .
no !
rick stopped her cold .
wait until were all ready .
he pulled his pants back on , stood up and downed a long gulp of water , and tossed the bottle back in his sack .
who wants to mark our path ?
he asked .
anna volunteered .
here , he tossed her a large piece of chalk .
mark the cave wall at least once every ten feet make it a huge mark , too .
she drew a huge a , nearly a foot tall , on a nearby rock .
hows that ?
perfect !
he answered and pulled out the digital camera , who wants oooh , me , me !
jessica screamed .
he handed her the camera .
i want you to take a picture of every intersection and pathway .
ok , daddy .
can i take some pictures outside , first ?
he nodded and she proceeded to click away .
kaylie , youll be my backup .
i want you to carry this rope , in case i fall in a hole or something , so someone else will have rope to lower for me .
and carry one of these flares and a couple extra batteries .
ok , she accepted the honor .
he pulled out two extra flashlights and handed one each to alex and christy .
you two are the light crew .
i want one of you in the back with anna and one in the middle with abby , who will be checking the map .
everyone else keep your flashlights in your pockets in case you need them later .
ok , ill help abby with lighting the map , alex offered .
ill help anna , said christy .
lets just quit over preparing and go !
jessica said impatiently .
rick smirked at her , shaking his head .
everyone knows what to do ?
everyone nodded excitedly , so he continued , nobody , and i mean nobody , is ever to be in front of me or behind christy , ok ?
if anyone gets separated , scream .
everyone is responsible for watching the person in front of them .
anna , you have to watch christy too .
if her light disappears , yell .
we must all stay together no matter what .
we get ya , dad lets go before it gets dark !
jessica chirped .
ok , ok !
abby , give us a rundown to the first fork , then we go in !
abby briefly explained , looks like about 120 feet downhill to the first intersection .
this part of the cave should be really open .
ok , lights ?
alex and christy turned theirs on and rick led them in between the massive boulders framing the cave entrance .
the entry between the two giant rocks narrowed then widened from four feet to nearly eight feet at the cave mouth .
the cave floor was about five feet from ground level , so rick boosted abby up and then helped each of the girls before climbing up himself .
the walls inside the cave mouth were over ten feet apart and the dome shaped ceiling was twelve feet high in the middle .
the ground was smooth dirt and the cave walls seemed to reflect light .
they appeared to be polished as smooth as glass , but were actually coarse as the rocks outside .
the crew of seven stood and stared in awe .
only rick and abby had ever been inside a cave before , and they both knew instantly this one was not normal .
they shared their thoughts with a knowing glance .
rick aimed his light down the increasingly dark tunnel , motioned everyone to follow , and journeyed onward .
dont forget to mark he started to say .
oh yeah !
anna interrupted , and quickly drew her initial on the wall , which prompted jessica to take some pictures .
the decline wasnt steep , but was enough to make everyone look as though some imaginary force was pushing them .
in two minutes they made the first junction uneventfully , and paused .
anna , i want you to draw an arrow at each intersection to point back to the exit , ok ?
gotcha !
she replied and drew huge arrows on the walls .
rick looked at abby for further instructions .
she directed , we keep going down the other path dead ends .
looks like 250 feet or so to the next fork .
they continued forward after jessica shot a few different angles of the dead end tunnel , reaching the next split in just a few moments .
anna again marked the exit direction , jessica took more pictures , and abby gave details of the next leg .
they passed three side tunnels before finally altering course , taking a left at a t shaped intersection .
the tunnel by then had shrunk considerably , to roughly six feet wide and eight feet tall .
they stopped at the next fork and rick checked everyone , are we all ok ?
abby spoke up , these are not natural caves .
i mean the beginning was sort of normal , but these are constructed by some method ive never seen .
what do you mean ?
its obvious its not natural , but what in particular is weird about it ?
well , first off , these walls dont even look like rock theyre smooth and glossy , almost like they were molded , and the floor has been perfectly even .
if they had poured concrete floors it wouldnt be any smoother .
and there are no support beams and not one single rock has fallen from the ceiling .
the digging techniques of 250 years ago could not have been used to do this !
she waved her arms around broadly for effect .
thats what i thought i just wanted an expert opinion , rick revealed .
if you want my opinion , anna butted in , id say you over prepared for the journey , just like jess said .
we could have jogged in with one flashlight shush and keep doing your job , rick smiled , it could turn nasty at the next fork .
yeah , right anna said , rolling her eyes .
jessica giggled .
eight turns later , twelve junctions and twenty minutes had passed , and rick paused again .
maybe the next turn will get nasty , anna joked .
i think your butt is about to turn nasty shades of red , rick teased , and then turned to abby .
how far down have we come and how far do we need to go ?
abby checked the map carefully , chuckled , and looked rick in the eye with a smirk , looks like weve traveled about a hundred feet .
rick and the girls all laughed .
we walked about a mile and a half to get here , but were roughly fifty feet from the entrance , and about a hundred feet down .
im guessing about another half mile , maybe a quarter of a mile , and one , two seven , eight eight more intersections .
ok , he pulled out his cell phone to check the time , its 7 45 what do you think ?
it gets dark in an hour or so , is everyone healthy enough to speed up ?
we can make eight more intersections in eight minutes , and leaving should be just as easy , abby speculated .
everyone agreed except jessica , im getting sleepy , she said , yawning for effect .
youll be ok , rick assured her .
ok , everyone do your job double time .
lets go !
less than eight minutes later , they were halted by abby , this should be the branch with the missing tunnels .
that drawing didnt exactly match the maps , but this is definitely the area where it should be .
rick flashed his light down each hallway , which was now only five feet wide and less than seven feet tall , feeling sort of crampy with everyone gathered closely .
im going to the end of the tunnel and back , this wall is where it should be , right ?
he placed his hand on the wall to his right as he faced the left tunnel of the t intersection .
abby nodded , yes , there should be a branch leading directly into this one from there , she confirmed .
rick walked down the entire hall , lightly brushing the surface from top to bottom for nearly eighty feet until he reached an abrupt end .
he then called out , jess , i want you to snap pictures of this entire tunnel .
jessica quickly accepted the task , walking toward him , clicking and flashing thirty or more times to the left , right , up , and down , documenting the entire area .
they went down the opposite path , which was nearly identical in length , and did the same .
when they stopped back at the intersection where the others were patiently waiting , he told them , i see nothing at all that could be another passage .
let us look , please ?
alex asked .
rick had already seen them solve riddles he couldnt , so he figured it was worth a shot .
sure , knock yourself out .
but were leaving in five minutes if we cant find anything .
all of them searched both tunnels , poking , prodding , and knocking the wall all the way .
they all came back with sad , disappointed faces .
what a bummer !
christy complained .
all this way for nothing !
a depressed kaylie sulked .
complete waste of time , anna contributed to the whine fest .
ok girls , its a disappointment , but were not through yet .
lets head home and try to figure it out later after ice cream .
jessica perked up , yes , definitely !
ice cream solves all problems !
thats the spirit !
rick said as he patted her on the head .
these tunnels were so well made , why didnt they just put in an elevator to take us to the entrance ?
anna joked , not looking forward to the long , sad walk back .
hah , good idea !
ok , lets move it .
alex and christy , i want you two to lead .
yell if anyone needs to stop .
set a fast pace .
it was about 8 30 when they reached the entrance without a single mishap or slowdown , not even a break .
as abby made the leap out of the cave , down the five foot drop , she realized something and stopped in her tracks .
rick ?
yeah ?
what do you think they did with all the rock from those tunnels ?
there are miles of them down there .
uh , probably carted it out , like everyone else does when they dig tunnels he shrugged , raising an eyebrow .
but theres a five foot drop off that wouldnt be easy to navigate .
and this crevice is too narrow for a cart and she looked around , where could they have put it ?
there should be millions of tons of earth that would make a mountain five hundred feet high .
i dont see one , do you ?
she put her hands on her hips and awaited an answer .
his blank stare indicated he had none .
they both dismissed the question and set about helping the girls out of the cave .
it was already getting dark , but they made it back to the van by flashlight before 9 00 , packed everything in the back , piled in , and let out a collective sigh .
rick stole a look back at the girls they all drooped with exhaustion and dejection .
jessica didnt have the energy to take off the extra pants and shirt .
rick got out and helped her out of the dirty clothes , stuck them back with the others and reclaimed the drivers seat .
it was fun though , wasnt it ?
girls ?
he asked hopefully .
only groans came from behind him .
chapter 11 if at first you dont succeed after several minutes arguing over what each of them wanted , the orders were finally placed .
two cookie dough blizzards , two m m blizzards , one hawaiian blizzard , a banana split , a chocolate fudge sundae , and two large cherry freezes , please , rick enumerated into the speaker at the dairy queen .
the girls were too tired to go inside although they usually insisted , so they had decided to swing through the drive thru instead .
a few minutes later , the harried clerk handed the goodies through the window and they pulled into the parking lot to eat .
alex popped in a dvd and rick and abby laid their seats back to watch the screen that hung between the front seats , each absently devouring their frozen treats in silence .
they pulled into the garage at 10 30 and rick honked the horn to try to wake them only anna stirred .
ugh , rick moaned .
he and abby climbed out .
abby grabbed the trash to throw it away .
rick leaned in , unbuckled jessica and lifted her out of the van .
carry me too , uncle ricky , anna pleaded , holding her arms out for him to take her .
no , he answered curtly .
why not ?
because youre almost as big as i am , and youre actually awake !
wake the others tell them the vans on fire , whatever it takes .
im not carrying everyone !
come on move your lazy butt !
he made a mental note to start parking the van next to the kitchen door as he carried his uncooperative load across the garage .
he lugged the slumping lump up to her bed , pulled her shoes off , wincing at the smell , and dumped her in the bed .
he grumbled all the way back down to the van .
kaylie and alex were bleary eyed , but awake .
anna finally had her seatbelt off .
anna , hit the shower before you even think about going to bed , he ordered .
awww !
why ?
duh !
he snorted , then held his nose .
anna simply glared at him , fine !
rick shook kaylie and alex , whose eyes had shut again .
you , too !
he said .
they both mimicked annas rueful expression , but shook their heads in assent .
he then rustled christy a bit , but she just grunted , so he unbuckled her and carefully worked her out of the van across his arms .
come on , girls , he said softly to the others , and they followed .
rick deposited christy in alexs room , laid her on the large hide a bed and plucked her shoes and socks from her feet .
she gave him a weak hug and said thanks as he covered her up and said good night .
get a bath , girls !
he instructed the others .
why doesnt christy have to take a bath ?
alex argued .
he stuck his nose to her and sniffed for effect , then turned to them , because she doesnt stink .
they both stuck out their tongues and gave a big raspberry , he calmly pointed to the bathroom , then left .
i guess ill go first , alex sighed , trudging into the bathroom and closing jessicas door .
rick wandered down the stairs and back to the van , gathering the camera and cube out of his sack , and securing all the doors as he came back into the house .
he carried everything to his study , setting them on his desk before searching for abby .
it didnt take long to discover she was sprawled across his bed .
as he tiptoed across the floor , she muttered without moving , please dont disturb this burial site .
come on , i got plans for you , mummy , he whispered softly , tugging at her arm .
she grumbled , my only plan is to take a bath and go to sleep , and not even in that order or i might just go to sleep in the tub .
no can do , anna is he glanced through the bathroom to see annas feet , still shod , hanging off the end of her bed , well , shes supposed to be in there .
anyway , we have a date with the hot tub , he informed her .
mmmm ... that does sound good .
she suddenly had the energy to get up .
why dont you head on down there and ill join you after i get that brat in the tub ?
he pulled her from the bed , kissed her lightly , squared her shoulders , and pushed her in the direction of the door .
ill be waiting , she said , turning to wink slyly .
rick decided he had better make quick work of anna .
he turned on the water and plugged the drain in the tub on his way through the bathroom , yanked her shoes and socks off , then just as easily jerked her off the bed , by the feet , catching her under the arms and shoved her toward the bathroom .
he stood her by the tub , leaving her standing there , teetering , while he finished with the water .
when it was full and about the right temperature , he turned to her , you smell like a wet dog , you can not go to bed until you get clean .
she bent down to test the water , making it look more difficult than it was .
do you think you can get in on your own or do i have to throw you in ?
i think i can manage she wrapped her arms around herself , as if she were ready to start undressing .
rick got the hint and sped away , closing the door behind him and yanking his own smelly shirt off as well as his shoes and socks and headed straight for the hot tub .
he nearly broadsided kaylie , who was just outside the door .
where are you going , rick ?
she asked .
i was looking for you while alex took her bath .
im gon na relax in the hot tub for a few days , he answered .
mmmm , that sounds really nice , can i come with you ?
um , well ... oh , she said , almost embarrassed , you and abby ?
rick tried to hide his own embarrassment , uh , yeah , but im sorry , i wont disturb you two , she gave the same , exact sly grin that abby had given just minutes ago , and it suddenly occurred to him that he might be setting a bad example .
oh , nonsense , come on down and he looked at her clothes , i mean go get on a bathing suit and join us !
you sure ?
she asked , disbelieving .
of course i am !
id love it if you joined us , youre always welcome youre sure i wont be interrupting ?
rick switched on his best poker face .
it didnt fool kaylie a bit , but she let him think it did .
interrupting ?
interrupting what ?
go get on your suit , and bring your own rubber ducky , ok ?
you cant have mine , he joked .
she giggled , ok !
and ran back up the stairs .
rick stood and pondered for a moment .
just what exactly did the thirteen year old suspect ?
she couldnt know or could she ?
maybe she just thought she knew but really didnt .
no , not kaylie , she wouldnt really know what was planned no , she probably would .
during his internal struggle , he had almost forgotten oh , abby !
he rushed down the stairs and clambered into the tub just seconds before kaylie waltzed in and slid into the water beside them with a huge audible sigh of contentment .
thats really a nice suit , kaylie , abby said casually .
thanks , i just got it last weekend .
its my first real bikini .
alex says it makes my boobs look big though .
rick coughed .
abby noticed his embarrassment and decided to add to it , for fun , thats what a bikini is supposed to do , draw attention to a girls features .
rick was feeling out of place , ok , lets not go there .
it looks nice lets leave it at that , ok ?
abby looked at kaylie and they shared a snicker , and then discussed the subject further while rick tried to pretend he needed to dunk his head under water .
eventually , they tired of tormenting him , rick , you should feel honored that she would feel safe discussing such things around you .
i wouldnt even talk to my own mother about personal things at her age .
rick splashed her , ok , im honored , now can we discuss it again when shes 25 ?
abby gave him a dirty look , as if to say if she wanted to talk about it , he should buck up and go through it for her sake .
really , kay , weve talked about this before and i still say dont worry .
youre years away from having to worry enjoy being young while you can !
he glanced at abby with a slick smile , in the meantime , if you have any other female concerns , feel free to ask abby to discuss them with you .
abby elbowed him under the water .
kaylie knew she could discuss things with rick , but she just realized that he was embarrassed by abby being there when she did it .
alex popped her head in the door , there you are !
i thought you went to get a drink .
i did , but i went to find your dad and ran into him on the stairs , he invited me to join them can i get in , too ?
sure !
rick answered , figuring the more the merrier , but i need you to go check on anna first i left her in the bathroom .
alex took off before he finished and came back five minutes later , in her own swimsuit , to inform him that anna was laying on the bed with wet hair , so she had apparently taken a bath .
alex complained that she had to drain the tub because anna had forgotten , and hopped in the bubbling , fragrant waters .
aah !
so what were you saying about the tunnels when i came in ?
i was just saying im going to print out all those pictures of that hallway .
there has to be a path there , somewhere !
abby is going to double check the maps and surveys to see if we could have been lost , took a wrong turn or were above or below it .
do you think thats possible ?
she asked abby .
anythings possible , abby replied , but we wont know for sure until we check it out thoroughly .
luckily , jessie took a lot of hi res pictures of each tunnel and intersection .
theres also no way to know how accurate those 160 year old maps are , or if theyre complete .
or how accurate the 250 year old drawing is ?
kaylie pondered out loud .
the drawing !
abby yelped as she jumped up and scrambled over the edge , causing kaylie to choke on a tidal wave and alex to stand to avoid it .
what is it , abby ?
rick questioned , still startled by her abrupt departure from the tub .
follow the path !
she seemed to be scolding herself .
stay here , ill show you .
dripping wet , she grabbed a towel on her way out the door .
follow the path ?
alex asked .
rick shrugged , well , thats what jessie said before she figured out how to open the box .
maybe its the new open sesame .
the girls giggled at him .
here !
abby exclaimed as she returned a minute later , still dripping wet , but with the towel around her head .
she was carrying a printout of the map from the drawing , very much enlarged .
follow the path !
she repeated .
all the bathers looked at each other with deep concern that abby had flipped her lid completely .
dont look at me that way .
check this out , right here , where the missing path is that leads to the x , see ?
you see ?
that tunnel does not connect to the one we were in it goes through , er , over or under or i dont know , but you see ?
she traced a line to its end , this appears to end , but it also goes just a bit beyond where it stops .
she paused as if everyone were supposed to understand and agree .
dont you see ?
look closely , they dont end there , its erased !
alexs face showed the dawn of recognition .
kaylie , equal to alex in eye and mouth size stuttered , so that first intersection we should have gone straight ?
abby nodded emphatically as she grabbed ricks arm , attempting to pull him out .
he finally cooperated and got out .
well be back , he told the girls as abby forced him out of the room while he was frantically trying to dry off .
what do you want ?
he finally asked at the desk .
i dont know how to work your camera and i need the pictures of that intersection .
oh , ok , he plugged the camera into the computer , quickly transferring the contents and then opened the photos .
lets see jess dancing alexs swim meet wednesday kay and alex acting stupid , thats not unusual ok , heres the track meet , soccer game , aah cave entrance .
they located the pictures of the intersection where they had taken the first turn jessica had taken four pictures of it .
he printed them all out on his 46 inch plotter printer .
alex and kaylie joined them as they were printing the pictures .
alex , can you tape these up under the floodlights ?
he pointed to the far wall as he fumbled through his desk for tape and tossed it to her .
alex took the first photo to the wall abby followed with the second .
she began studying the first one , a picture taken roughly ten feet before they reached the intersection .
kaylie brought the third enormous print and held it for alex to tape .
abby moved on to the second image , studying this four foot wide scene .
it was taken point blank , straight at the wall in question .
alex and kaylie studied the third , an eerily dark tunnel to the right with only a part of the wall in question , as rick posted the fourth print while alex absently handed him tape for it .
the room filled with quiet tension as each eye scrutinized the scenes .
abby finally broke the silence , just like the dead end , nothing indicates another tunnel ... kaylie moved her eyes over the picture and commented , it looks as solid as a rock .
it is a rock , dork !
alex scoffed .
i dont understand it looked so much like a tunnel had been erased that would run right into this one .
there must be lines for a door or something !
abby complained .
um , abby , rick tapped her shoulder , eyes locked on something in the picture .
he missed her shoulder a couple times .
he was staring across to the first photo , look at the first picture that ones too far away , it doesnt show anything , she answered , not taking her eyes from the image she had been studying .
rick clasped his hands over her ears like earmuffs and maneuvered her head toward the first picture .
what ?
she barked .
she pried his hands from her head with a huff , so rick decided to use them the old fashioned way he pointed .
now abby could clearly see what had grabbed his attention .
there , in the center of the wall , was a shadow from one of the other flashlights aimed at a different angle from the camera flash a perfect square , an indention in the otherwise random rocky texture .
oh my god !
where is this on the second picture ?
eyes darted back and forth between the two images , trying to locate the faint lines many seconds ticked by .
there !
kaylie yelled , startling everyone .
she stepped up and placed a finger on the glossy photo and traced an extremely faint , but now perfectly visible swirl .
it was an exact mirror image of the one on the cube .
rick immediately ran to the computer , loaded the image and zoomed in on the area .
the girls were gathering at his side as the detail showed a more obviously perfect square indention with a swirl pattern .
he held the cube beside it , the vortex is the key !
he announced loudly , almost bursting with excitement .
the girls jumped up and down , screaming and hugging each other .
rick stared at them and shook his head , strange specimens , indeed , these human girls ... dont you know what this means , dad ?
it means we found a spot on a wall that the cube might fit into , alex .
please dont get your hopes up too high again .
we found the time machine !
we found a wall .
whatever !
we are going back tomorrow !
she declared , posing defiantly , hands on hips .
sorry , honey , but tomorrow weve already planned to see the worlds largest ball of wax , he teased with convincing solemnity .
alex stuck her tongue out at him .
why dont you girls get in bed so we can get up early ?
he suggested .
i dont think i could sleep right now , kaylie said .
me either , alex agreed .
i think i can stay up a while myself .
wan na watch some of those movies we rented , before we have to take them back tomorrow night ?
i think im going to bed ... abby said , stifling a yawn .
how can you sleep at a time like this ?
kaylie asked her as if she had to be an alien to do such a thing .
abby smiled , i uncover mysteries , artifacts , treasures , and documents every day .
and i know to get a good nights sleep before undertaking this type of mission .
she hugged the girls and kissed rick , heading up the stairs after bidding them all good night .
ok , rick looked at the girls , you girls go get dressed for bed awww !
dad !
i thought chill !
we cant sit on the couch in wet bathing suits , doofus !
oh , she replied sheepishly .
the two girls raced up the stairs .
rick changed into some dry clothes he found in the laundry room , and set up the video .
alex came down in her nightshirt with two bags of chips , kaylie followed with cups of ice .
they set the items on the table and raided the bar fridge for dip and a two liter soft drink .
rick finally started the movie as they settled in beside him , pulling a blanket over them all .
within an hour , alex lay asleep propped up against her fathers leg while kaylie rattled off her wish list of places , or times , she wanted to see .
she had been rambling on for thirty minutes or more , completely starry eyed .
id like to see the pyramids being built , too , that would be so cool to watch , dont you think ?
rick had been fielding questions about ancient rome , greece , africa , knights , conquests , ancient wonders , peoples , species , etc. , and hadnt really been able to pay attention to the movie at all .
yeah , that would be neat , honey , but i really dont want you girls to get your hopes up .
we dont know what well find , if anything , and im not real sure i would allow any of you to actually go back in time .
isnt it ok to dream though ?
she asked .
of course , just dont expect all your dreams to come true , he said carefully .
oh , come on you know im just fascinated with history like you .
dont you want to see all those same things i do ?
every one of them , kay he smiled .
im just worried that youll be disappointed if you dont get to go .
im afraid maybe youre getting a little too excited .
maybe youre not excited enough , she retorted .
come on !
get excited about something for once instead of just worrying .
youre really cool when youre not trying to be an old fart !
rick shook slightly , trying to contain his laughter , im supposed to worry so you dont have to so you can be a kid all the time and not be an old fart .
pfffft !
come on , what would you like to do with a time machine ?
i ... dont really know , kay , he stuttered .
sure you do !
youre as much a kid as i am inside , she elbowed his side .
well , he thought a few seconds , i really like all your ideas your dreams , rick , not mine !
she insisted .
hmmm more than anything , really , id love to solve , well , find out the answers to some of the worlds biggest mysteries he stared off , apparently daydreaming about the prospect .
like ?
like who shot jfk ?
wheres jimmy hoffa ?
what happened to amelia earhart ?
was there really an anastasia ?
and even more importantly , his eyes started to mirror the excitement in kaylies , where did we really come from ?
i mean , did we evolve from apes ?
or did apes devolve from us ?
or are we two separate , but similar species ?
could we have both evolved from the same species ?
what was it ?
what stages of change did we undergo ?
or were we really created ?
which leads to how did life begin ?
when did it begin ?
how were some of the wonders of the world built and who built them ?
kaylie was rapt , seeing rick share his desires .
he only did that when they were alone and it made her feel like a true part of his family , a daughter , unlike the way she felt at her own home .
he went on , did jesus really die or was he just in a coma ?
oh , and who was really his father ?
id love to find out the truth about noahs ark , the garden of eden , witness the voyage of the titanic , see if aliens really did crash at roswell kaylie was grinning from ear to ear at him and when he finally noticed , he stopped rambling , what ?
she giggled , its just nice to see you so excited .
youve been so serious all weekend , i like you better this way .
he playfully grabbed her in a headlock and gave her a noogie on her head , so you like me to play more and parent less ?
no !
not that much !
she managed to giggle out as he proceeded to tickle her .
alex stirred and they immediately stopped , looked at each other , and burst out laughing again , trying unsuccessfully to suppress the noise .
you know what would really be the coolest thing in the world , rick ?
kaylie whispered , still smiling that happy , fun smile .
what ?
she started counting on her fingers , if i could go back twenty twenty two years and hang out with you when you were my age , she said , watching for his reaction .
he stared at her a moment , then doubled over with his hands over his mouth to keep his laughter from waking alex .
what ?
he kept grinning at her .
what ?
wiping tears of mirth from his eyes he finally answered , kay , you wouldnt have liked me at all then .
she cocked her head sideways .
really .
i was much more serious then .
if you werent a motorcycle or swimming pool , i wasnt interested .
thats all i did i didnt have an adventurous spirit , i didnt give a hoot about history , or care one bit about being around anyone else .
i cared much less about going to the park , movies , sporting events , or any of that stuff , and i certainly had no time for girls .
she was still stumped , stunned and perplexed , but you looked just as happy and friendly in that picture upstairs honey , i was happy then , about as happy as ive ever been .
but it was because my love then was swimming that was my passion .
now its my daughters .
including me ?
she asked hopefully .
hah , he tried to shrug off the seriousness of her question .
if you didnt have parents already , id adopt you , kaylie .
well , i can answer one question you asked earlier my parents theyre aliens !
she giggled .
suddenly sober , she added , rick , dont take this the wrong way , but i dont think of you as a father figure , more like my second best friend although youd definitely be a better father than mine .
he squeezed her in a sideways hug , im honored .
id have to say youre my second best friend , too , he told her seriously this time .
whos first ?
abby ?
or is she your girlfriend ?
she asked bluntly .
shes my best friend lets leave it there , ok ?
shes your girlfriend !
kaylie teased .
thats really none of your business im your second best friend .
of course its my business !
tell me the truth , is she or isnt she ?
rick pondered that question a moment before answering , i really dont know , honestly .
do you want her to be ?
yeah , of course i do , but shes off running around the world looking for bones and pots so i just have to settle for times like this weekend have you talked to her about it ?
yeah , a couple years ago , before she went off on the last two marathon digs talk to her again , she advised .
honey , she made it pretty clear then that she talk to her again !
kaylie insisted .
abby belongs here , you know it , i know it , alex knows , abby even knows it i can see it written all over her face !
abby doesnt want kids she cant handle them bull !
she loves us as much as she does you !
she looked so happy and comfortable playing mommy today .
did you ever think maybe shes ready to grow up ?
thats awful big talk coming from a thirteen year old !
rick joked .
dont make me go back in time and kick your thirteen year old butt !
dont make me go into the future and well , never mind .
id have to kick your butt now , while i can call it a spanking and not an assault !
he threatened playfully .
they laughed together for a moment , causing alex to stir again .
what would you think of me when im 35 ?
she then asked .
how can i answer that ?
i have no way of knowing what youd be like then except that youd be old !
he teased .
rick !
she reached back and whacked him in the arm , thats not funny .
you called me old first !
he accused .
yeah , but enough !
were not watching this movie and youre starting to look tired .
why dont we wake alex and go to bed ?
its past 1 30 .
i just wan na sleep down here , she said , grabbing the remote .
ok , good night then , he kissed her on the top of the head .
after rearranging alex , he kissed her forehead , and made his way upstairs , thinking of the wonders they had discussed .
chapter 12 turning the key instead of an earthquake this morning , rick awoke to voices , dont they look soooo cute together ?
yes , they do , we should fix that .
whipped cream should work .
ricks eyes immediately flipped wide open , staring at the clock 7 08 .
christy and jessica were hovering overhead .
i really dont think whipped cream is a good idea , he growled .
they giggled .
you girls got breakfast ready ?
they looked at him stupefied .
breakfast ?
we were hoping you would go get donuts so we can go back early to explore the caves some more , jessica said .
you two still need baths , he said , sitting up .
awwww !
they sighed .
you should be able to get done before i get back with donuts though .
yay !
their attitudes changed as they raced out of the room .
as rick came out of his bedroom , he noticed anna sprawled face down , sideways across her bed .
she had obviously fallen asleep directly out of the shower .
he closed her door and went to the garage .
he started the viper and smiled at the rumble of the massive v 12 engine .
he put it in gear and eased out of the garage .
its a shame for this car to be driving down a residential street so slowly , he thought , and its an even bigger shame that i get to drive it so seldom .
fatherhood and the minivan seem to be taking over more and more of my life , he sighed .
when he walked back into the kitchen , abby was slumped at the kitchen counter with a cup of coffee .
christy , jessica and alex swarmed when they heard the kitchen door shut and immediately relieved him of the donut boxes .
hold on !
jess , go get anna up alex , go get kaylie .
why dont you get her up ?
jessica asked as she stuffed half a fritter in her mouth .
because i told you to .
so ?
go !
wheres kaylie , dad ?
alex asked .
she should be downstairs on the couch .
i was down there earlier i didnt see her .
check again .
did you actually look on the couch ?
uh , no , i got on the computer .
whew , rick sighed , dont scare me like that .
go get her , please .
jessica returned from her task , snickering , i took a sandal and swatted annas big fat booty !
seconds later , anna emerged in her nightshirt , steaming mad .
she stomped over to the counter and whacked jessica on the back of the head .
anna !
rick yelled .
she hit me with a shoe !
anna griped .
it was a sandal !
jessica corrected .
anna smacked her on the back of the head again .
dad !
jessica cried .
im not sure you didnt deserve that , he said .
she shouldnt have had her big fat butt sticking up in the air saying spank me , jessica explained as if it were a valid excuse .
anna cocked her arm back to swat her cousin once again rick caught her hand , spinning her around and into a seat at the opposite end of the counter .
hit her again and youll be grounded .
well , my butt is not fat !
it jiggles like jello when you hit it with a sandal !
stop !
rick ordered .
alex and kaylie came up the stairs .
so , when are we going ?
kaylie asked as soon as she was in sight .
after we eat and get ready , rick told her .
cool !
i cant wait to see that time machine !
anna smirked , what makes you think well find anything but dead end tunnels again today ?
well , rick laughed , while you were face down on the bed big fat bu jessica started , but rick swatted the back of her head , cutting off the rest of her remark .
we were finding the secret path hidden in the wall , he completed .
whoa !
christy said .
wow !
anna added , surprised .
ow !
jessica cried , rubbing her head .
rick smiled at abby , who sat in the passenger seat holding two boxes of donuts .
when the girls had heard the news of the secret passage , they demanded an immediate return to the cave .
anna was so excited that she ran to her room and came back carrying her shoes , still in her nightshirt .
rick assured her she had plenty of time to get dressed , turned her around , and pushed her back toward her room .
christy and jessica galloped straight to the van , forgetting their shoes .
only alex and kaylie had the presence of mind to calmly walk to their room , change clothes , use the bathroom , and even brush their hair .
they were actually in the van and fully prepared before anyone else .
abby passed out donuts , including half eaten ones christy and jessica had left on the table .
the trip to the path was a short one , taking two to three minutes .
rick popped the hatch as the girls opened the sliding door and started to run down the path .
girls !
he yelled , they all stopped in their tracks .
get back here .
now !
they all slowly walked back .
you will sit here and eat your donuts while we get ready , he said .
im not hungry , anna told him defiantly .
me either , the others agreed .
right .
well just stay here until you are , then , he told them all .
each reluctantly picked up their donut as rick and abby packed their bags a bit lighter than the previous day .
he handed out the same assignments as the previous day , distributed the same clothes , then sat down on the bumper and proceeded to eat a donut , agonizingly slowly .
when the last bite disappeared into his mouth , the girls jumped up expectantly .
rick smiled wickedly and reached for another .
a chorus of gripes and complaints ensued .
you need to learn to be patient and behave !
was his stoic reply .
i think you should eat all the donuts before he takes another one , abby advised .
all the girls suddenly realized they were hungry and complied .
and settled down .
christy asked , why do we need these clothes again ?
the path is clear now and it wasnt that cold in the tunnels , i have a feeling were going deeper this time .
you dont have to wear them , but tie them around you or something in case you do need them , rick recommended .
it was sixty degrees at the end yesterday , you would probably have been cold without them , abby added .
the girls had opted for shorts and tank tops , except anna , who wore a halter top .
she pulled her extra shirt on while the rest tied theirs around their waists , and everyone put on the pants when abby mentioned there were still bugs out there .
abby again coated everyone with bug repellent and when rick declared the journey was about to begin , he was treated to a collective sigh of relief .
he locked up the van and unsheathed the machete .
bout time , anna grumbled .
you like having a place to put your earrings ?
rick smiled , waving the blade at her .
he and abby led the party down the trail .
they arrived at the cave and climbed right in .
anna automatically wielded her chalk , jessica prepared the camera and alex and christy illuminated the room .
rick led the way down the slope , carrying the cube now instead of the machete in one hand , flashlight in the other .
it was 9 00 am when they reached the intersection in question .
rick held his light at an angle to the wall , which immediately made the impression visible .
the square was only about 1 16th of an inch deep and was , as expected , the exact size of the cube .
the swirl pattern matched perfectly with that in the inset area .
jessica traced the swirl with her finger , expecting to get lucky again .
it did nothing .
worth a try , she shrugged , not even slightly disappointed .
rick lined the box up with the square , making sure the swirl matched as well , and gently pressed it into the indentation , holding it there a brief moment .
a seam immediately appeared in the wall and everyone took a cautious step back .
the massive stone rumbled as it effortlessly slid back and up into the ceiling , exposing a more natural looking cave .
the air expelled from this new path smelled old and damp and was a stark contrast to the relatively warm and dry corridors preceding it .
goosebumps raised instantly on their arms .
almost choreographed , they each untied their shirts from their waists and slipped them on .
this cave also had support beams , unlike the rest of the tunnels they had seen thus far , and had traces of rubble which had fallen from the ceiling , as well as stalactites and stalagmites .
the roof was carved squarely , instead of arched like the others .
rick , concealing his sudden apprehension , motioned for everyone to continue their jobs and asked abby to detail the new path ahead on her map .
this tunnel was as wide as ten feet in some places , narrow as three feet in others .
as the last person walked through the doorway , the stone slid back into place with a perfect seal once again .
alex noted this side of the door had an identical keyhole as the other , although it was more apparent with the rocky background inside .
abby explained there were no branches or forks in this cave and they walked forward for nearly fifteen minutes in what was a gradually tightening spiral , winding down until they reached the center , which simply cut to the west to a point which abby approximated to be fifty feet below the dead end that halted their exploration the previous day .
rick came to an abrupt stop as the narrow tunnel suddenly opened up into an obviously man made and unnatural , but very beautiful scene of magnificent construction .
he felt six impacts as each of his companions slammed into the previous one when he halted .
the walls were once again glossy and uniform , now extending nearly thirty feet to the top .
the floor sloped gently and extended roughly fifty feet in a crescent shape around a thirty foot wide pool of clear liquid fed by a waterfall flowing from a rounded chute in the center of the ceiling .
the lights danced and reflected off the water with an impressive glow that entranced the entire party .
christy broke the spell , wow , its so pretty !
rick snapped out of his trance and walked around the pool as far as he could to one side , checking the walls for some type of exit besides the one through which they had entered .
there were none .
as he returned , he focused the beam of his light down into the water .
it was crystal clear and it looked like the bottom dropped sharply before flattening out at about eight feet deep across the middle .
he rejoined his clan they had gradually crept toward the water and were also admiring the clarity and beauty .
its warmer in here .
a lot , anna commented , taking off her shirt .
what do you think ?
rick asked abby as he slid his arm around her shoulder and cinched her up against him .
its amazing , she replied softly .
the girls all nodded reverently in agreement .
no , i mean what do we do now ?
six puzzled expressions shot back at him .
jessica finally spoke up , i guess ill take pictures of every inch of the place .
soon , every pair of eyes and hands were caressing the walls and inspecting the ceilings .
anna decided that was too boring and sat on the edge of the pool , removed her shoes and socks , and soaked her feet in the water .
hows it feel ?
alex asked when she noticed .
not bad , about like our pool in early summer rick stuck his hand in it to get his own opinion , as did the others .
not bad at all , about 72 degrees ... its no hot tub !
kaylie observed .
the hot tub is 92 degrees , jessica stated factually as she continued to document every bit of the place .
she was at the far end of the pathway .
rick , theres more to this map .
this cant be another dead abbys analysis was broken by a screech and gasp .
daddy !
jessica yelped .
what ?
alex , who had gasped , was now tugging at his arm as well .
and what is so important that you have to remove my arm from my body , alex ?
his irritation halted jessicas reply .
so alex answered , the water .
it has to go someplace !
thats what i was gon na show you !
jessica protested , wanting credit for the discovery she had made .
come here and turn out your lights !
she ordered .
there was a rapid pitter patter of feet as everyone clustered around her , then turned out their lights until it was completely dark .
wait a minute , jessica instructed .
each of them patiently waited for their eyes to adjust .
faintly a dim light faded into view directly behind the waterfall .
after a few more seconds , a square tube , about five feet across , was clearly visible through the ripples along the bottom of the wall .
theres an exit !
abby declared .
uh , where does it go , though ?
alex pondered out loud .
to our time machine !
kaylie proclaimed as she sat down to take off her shoes and socks .
what do you think youre doing , kay ?
rick demanded .
what do you think ?
im gon na swim through to our time machine !
in the dim light , he noticed the others doing the same .
hold on , he switched his light back on , none of you are going in there .
why not ?
kaylie questioned .
see all that water coming out of the ceiling ?
he pointed .
uh , yeah that same amount of water is going out that hole .
that would make quite a current , he explained .
oh , she said , despondently .
you wouldnt be able to get back very easily , would you ?
he asked .
she shook her head , eyes wide with the realization of her possibly near fatal mistake .
what are we supposed to do then ?
wheres that rope ?
he asked .
i left it at the entrance , she said , pointing at her bag .
rick walked back to the tunnel where most of them had discarded their gear , picked up the rope , and started to undo the knot as the others gathered around .
he laid the rope in a coil on the ground and took one end of it , entering the tunnel .
he stopped at the first support beam and studied it .
he determined it was no good he couldnt fasten the rope to it in any way .
so he went to the next .
perfect .
he could easily fit the rope around it , between the beam and the rock , and tied and checked his knot , then tied a couple more to be sure and returned to the indoor lake .
well , the ropes 125 feet and we just lost 25 of it and its at least thirty feet to the hole that gives me seventy feet ... rick , abbys concerned voice cracked , are you going in there ?
my dad can hold his breath for like three minutes , alex bragged .
rick ignored the concern , you got any plastic bags ?
yeah , sure .
i have lots of sample bags what size ?
this size , he held up his flashlight .
abby rummaged through her bag and handed him a clear baggie perfect for the job .
he placed the light in the bag and sealed it , then stripped to his shorts .
he tossed the rope in the water just above the hole and watched the current suck it in , hoping it didnt knot up .
here , he picked up the rope and handed it to kaylie , youre my lifeline , if i tug on it three times , tell everyone to pull .
kaylie gulped .
dont panic yet im gon na go down like ten feet to test it out first .
alex , i want you to time me you know when im in danger .
he waded into the water , holding the rope , letting it slide through his hands as he went deeper .
hows the water , dad ?
jessica asked .
feels good , be right back .
dont worry , he assured them .
he tucked the bag into his shorts pocket so the light hung outside and immersed himself the rest of the way .
as he breast stroked around the waterfall , abby called , be careful !
of course !
he shot back casually , id hate for you to lose me before you finally admit you love me !
he winked at kaylie , who returned the wink .
abby glared at him as he went under , and then turned to kaylie , what did that mean ?
she asked suspiciously .
oh , just something we discussed last night , kaylie replied with an ounce , maybe a ton , of implication , leaving her to wonder .
the lights sparkled and flashed as the bag flapped at his side , not exactly the best arrangement , but it was working .
he could clearly see the uniform tunnel ahead until it turned sharply at about fifteen feet .
he grabbed the rope and allowed the current to drag him in .
not too strong , he thought .
he drifted around the corner weightlessly then propped his feet against each side to stop his progress and look down the next corridor .
there , he thought , not even ten feet away , was what appeared to be the light source they had seen so dimly from the pool , dozens of times brighter now .
he considered making the trip to the junction from which it came , a branch in the tunnel to the right , but the rope had followed the current the other way .
he opted to go back and explain what he was going to do instead .
he decided to try to swim out of the hole against the current and found he could overpower it fairly easily , and made his way back to the opening where he pulled himself out .
there he is !
an obviously tense , and now relieved , jessica exclaimed .
its not bad , really , but im not sure you can all make it .
theres a turn fifteen feet down , then a fork another eight to ten feet to the right where i could see a light , he paused for a breath .
im going to go down to that path .
if im safe , ill tug on the rope four times , ok ?
kaylie nodded .
rick pulled in a few more deep breaths then angled into a dive right at the hole , going directly into the aqueduct and maneuvering swiftly around the first corner to the spot where he had previously stopped .
he balanced himself against the current at the split in order to pull up slack in the rope , and took the right path toward the light .
he quickly learned this path was not a long one .
in fact , it sloped directly up at a twenty degree angle and he could see the surface already .
he half walked , half swam the four or five feet to the surface , dragging the slack rope with him , breaking the surface to a surreal world that his wildest fantasies could never have conjured .
whats taking so long ?
abby said , pacing .
why ?
you miss him already ?
kaylie smiled .
seriously , he hasnt tugged on the rope ?
not at all , theres been no tension on it at all since he went in .
one minute , 45 seconds , alex called , looking at her watch .
kaylie decided to check the rope , just to make sure .
she only pulled it a couple feet when she felt pressure on the other end .
she tugged once .
the slight jerk of the rope snapped rick out of his trance .
how long had it been ?
five seconds ?
five minutes ?
he didnt know , but was sure someone on the other end of this rope did .
he slowly pulled back four times to let them know he was ok .
he then untied the rope from his waist and tied it off to a column before pulling himself back to the pool .
as his head broke the surface , an angry voice assaulted him , richard williamson !
how dare you scare us all like that !
he held back his smile as he swam back , how long was i gone ?
he asked alex .
two minutes , 45 seconds , said the timekeeper .
i had fifteen seconds left , why the panic ?
he joked .
abby was not amused .
he climbed up the steep slope and dried his hands on the pants he had left behind .
you dont even care if we were worried ?
abby scolded .
he asked her for another plastic bag and she provided it .
there are easier ways to tell me how you feel , he said slyly , winking at kaylie again .
he then took the camera from jessica and sealed it up in the bag , purposely avoiding eye contact .
abby fumed at kaylie , what is this ?
a conspiracy ?
are you helping him play some kind of joke on me ?
kaylie was giggling , but shook her head , assuring abby there was no evil plot against her .
what are you doing , rick ?
abby finally asked him .
he glanced at her , you have to see this .
seriously .
and im in absolutely no danger at all i merely lost track of time .
dont worry .
he stood and pecked her lightly on the forehead , then squeezed the camera into his pocket and started back into the water .
i might misunderstand your concern and think its some other emotion , he hinted .
kaylie fought to control her expression as he smiled at her while going under .
what ?
a frustrated abby demanded of the girl .
rick walked up the slope inside the secret room seconds later .
the scene was still stunning and he had to pause a second , totally forgetting to wipe the water from his face .
he slowly pulled the camera from his pocket and opened the baggie .
he turned on the power and raised the camera to his face .
then lowered it .
holy cow !
what to shoot ?
he asked nobody .
he finally decided everything !
the room was the shape of a dome twenty feet high , thirty wide .
the entire ceiling , from about six feet up , was coated with what looked like dark blue crystals the rest appeared to be gold , with uncountable amounts of inlaid gems .
the patterns of the gems formed copies of ancient works pharaohs , mummies , depictions of ra , odin , thor , jesus , even famous paintings such as the mona lisa .
there were ancient caveman drawings completely replicated with thousands of gems , and many images of battles , armor , weapons .
the floor looked and felt like it was constructed of the same strange metallic substance as the cube , except for an eight foot circle of stone around the entrance and a twelve foot circle of red crystal in the center .
along the far wall appeared to be a slanted desk full of large papers .
to the right was what looked like eight storage containers , each six feet high and three feet wide , like large lockers , lined up side by side and made of the same mysterious metal .
to the left was a bank of glowing buttons and switches , and in the very center of the room , a podium seemed to grow out of the red crystals like a tree .
the trunk of this tree was round and completely illuminated the room .
this was nearly the entire source of light in the room , but it wasnt bright to look at .
the top of the podium was flat and black .
this device was obviously the center of attention for some reason , a reason rick wholly expected it had a single , faceted hole in the center , just the right shape and size for the time stone .
could it be ?
could it really be a ... time machine ?
as he approached he had to remind himself for the tenth time why he was here ... pictures !
he reprimanded himself .
twenty minutes and probably 150 pictures later , he decided he should get back to show everyone .
walking back to the exit , he sighed , not wanting to leave , reluctantly resealing the camera in the bag and pressing it into his pocket .
chapter 13 wonder full !
so hes putting you up to this ?
abby questioned .
she had been prying information out of kaylie for the last fifteen minutes as they dangled their feet in the water , impatiently worrying over ricks absence .
kaylie was baiting her to demand more info .
no , i just told him that you two make a perfect couple and you really seem to belong here .
alex , jessie , and anna all really love you and think youre the perfect mother you really told him all that ?
yeah , and you act like you want to stay too .
and he should ask you to what did he say about that ?
hook , line and sinker , kaylie smiled inwardly as she reeled her in .
oh , he said you already told him no but that was two years ago !
abby argued .
kaylie mentally high fived herself , well , i think you should let him know you might have changed your mind , she suggested .
but how do i tell him ?
kaylie was amused at abby , acting like a high school girl with a crush on the quarterback .
i thought i was supposed to be the immature one , she thought to herself with a smile , then decided to give an immature answer , but good advice , duh , with your mouth ... speak !
youre an adult , right ?
abby chastised herself , gosh , youre so right .
im being childish !
no wonder you and rick are such good friends , kaylie .
you are a smart and mature young lady , thank you , she replied , sincerely flattered .
luckily , kaylie was holding the rope loosely it nearly pulled her into the water when it suddenly tightened .
she practically jumped out of her skin .
kaylie ?
abby asked , startled too .
it just scared me , kaylie said , indicating the rope .
ricks coming back !
she yelled to the girls across the water and they all splattered over to her .
twelve eyes stared intently at him as he emerged from the pool .
nobody spoke , anticipating the details of his photography session .
he quickly pulled out the bag , opened it and handed it to alex .
they were like ducks after a single piece of bread , swarming , jockeying for position .
as the pictures appeared on the screen , a collective gasp filled the room or emptied it , followed by random oohs and aahs .
after only fifteen pictures , alex abruptly turned the camera off .
what are you doing ?
anna protested .
alex tore off her pants and extra shirt like they were on fire , were going in there !
she declared and waded into the water .
the other girls hurriedly shucked their clothes as well .
wait !
rick demanded , we need to pack some stuff to take with us , and nobody is going until im at the other end to make sure you get there safely .
alex angrily swam back and started to get out , but then slumped back into the water .
is it cold over there ?
she asked .
it seemed a lot warmer , but i was so excited that i really cant remember .
we should take our extra clothes , abby decided , pulling out a roll of trash bags and tearing one off .
she gathered all the clothes now strewn about the cavern .
rick added the cube and the camera .
jessica and christy jumped in with a splash to join alex , and anna followed shortly .
rick turned the lantern on .
im gon na leave this burning so well have some light when we come back .
kaylie sidled up to him and whispered into his ear , shes staying , all you got ta do is ask .
really ?
he jerked his head to look her in the eye .
she simply winked in reply as she headed toward the pool .
im gon na adopt you someday , i swear , he whispered back to her .
abby , noticing some communication between the two , joined kaylie probably to eavesdrop on whatever secrets they were sharing and slowly walked into the pool with her .
rick checked the bag , tied it tightly while expelling the excess air , and tossed it near the tunnel , barking out instructions to the others .
when he was sure they understood , he snatched the bag and swam through the hole .
he deposited the bag just seconds later and dove back to wait for alex , who was supposed to go first .
he tied a flashlight to the rope at the bottom of the ramp , and alex showed up seconds later , head first .
rick grabbed an arm and shoved her toward the ramp .
christy came next , feet first , sliding down the rope like a firemans pole .
rick caught her leg and twisted her toward the ramp .
jessica came right behind her , giving him little time to snag her under the arms and propel her on the way .
anna was next .
she stopped before she got near the split and rick could sense she was terrified by the flailing rope .
he thrust off the wall toward her .
anna was clutching the rope tightly with both hands , eyes closed firmly .
rick tapped her shoulder and her eyes sprang open .
the tension in her fingers seemed to loosen instantly upon seeing her uncle and he slowly pried her hands from the rope .
grabbing her around the waist , he floated down the rope , dragging her toward the ramp .
he shoved her up and out of the water , where she began spitting and crying .
he had seen kaylie coming out of the corner of his eye and rushed back just in time to snag her under an arm and trudge back up the ramp to gather a few breaths .
finally , he saw abbys foot lightly supporting her against the current at the split and hopped back in .
he wove his hand into her free hand , pulling her in the direction of the ramp .
that was fun !
abby exclaimed as she broke the surface , then her elation turned to fascination as she saw into the room past his head .
she practically climbed over him to enter the room .
all the girls were standing silently on the stone floor , staring , mouths agape .
except anna , who had her back to the room , sitting half in the water , coughing and complaining , i almost drowned !
she was yelling at him , splashing him with fists in the water .
rick climbed past her , placed his hands under her arms and jerked her out of the water , slung her around and dropped her at the top of the ramp facing the room .
anna stopped complaining .
rick noticed christy and jessica standing with their arms folded over their chests , shivering , and opened the bag , here , dry off then get your other clothes on !
they all dressed while relentlessly bombarding him to be allowed to enter the room and look at everything .
ok , but dont touch anything ... anything !
got it ?
he ordered .
several excited nods later , they were darting about the room .
nothing could hold the girls attention long , something prettier , shinier , weirder kept beckoning them from somewhere else .
kaylie and alex were checking out the desk , abby was studying the walls , explaining each depiction to anyone who would listen , christy and jessica were looking at all the different buttons and switches , daring each other to touch them .
anna was focused on the time machine in the center like a collector at an antique car show rick fully expected her to kick its tires , if it had any .
rick knelt down and opened the cube .
he sat there a moment and watched the girls as they all oohd and aahd , captivated by their utter enjoyment .
he grabbed the camera and took several pictures of the girls , capturing their complete bliss , overflowing with pride .
he finally looked back down at the open cube .
the time stone begged him to pick it up .
he did .
feeling the excitement as he held it in his hand , all eyes suddenly turned to him expectantly .
a crack of lightning couldnt have made them blink as rick walked over to the machine , stay back , please .
butterflies were battling buzzards in his stomach as he approached and placed the tear drop gem into the slot .
it fit perfectly .
nothing happened right away .
rick turned and shrugged questioningly at abby .
before his shrug could finish , a soft , monotone female voice said , initialization of universe complete , destination , please .
what ?
rick asked .
please , identify yourself , voice unrecognized , it answered .
rick , he replied .
hello , rick , will you be controlling displacement parameters ?
um , i guess so .
authorizing rick , i guess so .
destination , please ?
rick looked at everyone , puzzled , and then turned back as if it were a real person he had to face when speaking .
you mean a place to travel ?
he asked it .
no , a date , rick .
although the voice had no inflection , rick felt as if the woman were teasing him .
he couldnt think of anything at first , but then instinctively remembered the most famous date he could think of , december 7 , 1941 .
rick jumped back , as did everyone else , when a five foot sphere appeared two feet above the podium .
it was earth , in spectacular detail , not just a model of the planet , but the actual planet , as if they were looking at it from space .
it was complete with weather patterns .
would you like to manually or verbally choose a location , rick ?
rick was too awestruck to answer , so alex did , pearl harbor .
please identify yourself , voice not recognized .
alex , she responded .
hi , alex , i can not change location rick is controlling parameters .
would you like to share or give control to alex , rick ?
the machine asked .
uh , no .
would you like to allow anyone else to share control , rick ?
no , he decided quickly .
would the rest of you like to identify yourselves now ?
the machine asked .
rick thought the machine had a hint of loneliness in its voice .
how do you know anyone else is here ?
he asked .
i am reading seven human biosigns , rick .
am i mistaken ?
wow !
no , youre right .
thats amazing ...
i am programmed to do that , rick it would be amazing if i did something im not programmed to do .
rick chuckled at what certainly sounded like a joke from the computer .
christy stepped forward , im christy .
whats your name ?
hi , christy .
i am tedium .
nice to meet you .
tedium ?
what kind of name is that ?
it is the designation i was given by my creator , dr. jonathan taylor .
it is actually derived from the initials , tdm , which stands for time displacement machine .
you can call me t if you like john always does ... or did .
again , there was no tone change , but everyone could sense sadness in her voice .
rick decided to ask , do you know what happened to john ?
i assume you were addressing me ?
t asked .
yes , sorry , t. thats quite all right , rick .
i am not accustomed to crowds and it is much easier if you direct comments or questions to someone by name .
i can tell if you are facing me , but that does not always mean you are addressing me .
please , identify everyone , then we can discuss whatever you like , t said .
abby spoke first , im abby .
hi , abby .
im anna .
hi , anna .
im kaylie .
hi , kaylie .
im jessica , but you can call me jess or jessie , if you like .
hi , jessie , she responded , with no hesitation to decide on which name to use .
once she had all the greetings out of the way , she answered ricks original question , john died on march 21 , 1756 , but you know that how do you know that , t ?
rick asked .
i have all of time in my memory banks , rick , and im fully capable of comprehending it as well .
for instance , the sphere displayed ricks gang as they watched taylors last entry , i can see you watched this recording of john and i can determine that you are capable of discerning that he could not have survived very long with that wound .
he died 21 minutes , 32 seconds after this recording ended .
the sphere instantly changed to that scene .
they watched as john buried the cube and staggered through the woods to his ultimate death .
ok , thats enough , t , rick interrupted and the display reset quickly back to 1941 .
as you can see , he successfully hid the time stone as well as the key and chronicler from bergamiser .
i am very glad that you found the key instead of bignose , rick .
you are all good people .
he was not .
rick considered the fact that she just admitted to cheering against bignose and called him bignose !
t definitely had some kind of personality and feelings ?
can you help me understand what to do here , t ?
i dont want to make any fatal errors .
of course , rick .
i am programmed to address any concerns you have and will never displace you unless you confirm the destination and location and ask to be displaced .
rick turned to abby , what should i ask ?
t spoke instead , although im 99.3 certain you were addressing abby , i believe im more capable of answering that question if you dont mind , rick .
sure !
any time you have an answer , id like to hear it , t , rick said gladly .
first , as you now know , you choose a destination or time which you have done .
then , select a location .
if you know the exact coordinates of the location as well as an altitude , you can say it .
if you prefer a general area , you can say that .
for example , alexs response of pearl harbor would have resulted in this view .
an aerial view of pearl harbor popped up .
if you said new york city , the display instantly changed , you would get this view .
notice it is larger , formatted to fit the viewing area , as this would be for the general area of spain , it switched again , much further out , much more distant .
the world view shifted back into place .
you can normally select a location manually , as well .
use your hand to slide the view one finger to zoom in , two to zoom out .
please , try , rick .
rick stuck his finger right into the solid looking image of the united states , roughly where new york would be , and the view quickly started to zoom in .
he noticed it would zoom faster if he pushed in further .
within seconds , he had an amazing image of the heart of new york .
he placed his palm on the edge of it and slid it sideways , the image scrolled with his hand .
he maneuvered until he could see a sidewalk .
amazed at the detail , he pressed more and adjusted until he could count the hairs of a mans eyebrows who was reading a newspaper on a bench .
he rotated then by twisting his hand until he could see the back of the old mans head , switched to two fingers to zoom out and caught the inside of the building behind the man , then pulled back so he could watch the people inside the building actually in the midst of working in several offices .
amazing !
we can look inside of things , even through things ?
yes , rick , this is a fully functional 360 degree 3d projection system .
quite common , actually well , not during your time , i apologize no need to apologize , t. im sure a lot of things you consider common are extraordinary to us , like time travel .
actually , nobody else in recorded history has ever developed time travel except dr. jonathan taylor , although our history ends , for humans at least , in 75,252 .
wait you hold all of history in memory ?
rick asked , floored .
yes , rick .
the crystals you are standing on which are encased in acrylic as well as the ones above and many more meters deep than you can see , are hyper dynamic molecular memory cells .
each one of them can hold 45 billion of what you call a terabyte and there are more than 785,000 of them .
there are actually more of them , infinitely more , stored in an infinite array of quantum states , or universes , if you will .
rick froze as he contemplated the enormity of t. he couldnt even wrap his mind around the concept .
i can see you are having difficulty , so lets get back to our introduction , rick .
yes , please , t. where were we ?
t described how he could move and rotate the image using voice commands as well as hand movements , listed all the basic commands and abilities , and detailed the use of the necklaces and chronicler .
if you have any further questions , rick , please feel free to ask , she finally concluded after the lengthy review .
the girls were all sitting on the floor now , almost completely dry .
wheres the nearest bathroom , t ?
anna asked .
all you require is here , anna , you only need to ask , she replied as a silvery four foot box with a door , rose out of the floor .
you can not be serious !
she said , amazed .
on the contrary , i can never be anything but serious , anna .
what else can you do , t ?
kaylie asked .
it would take a very long time to detail all of my functions , kaylie , are you sure you would like an entire list ?
about how long ?
she inquired further .
approximately 32 days , kaylie , would you like me to begin ?
no thanks , kaylie instantly decided , eyes bulging out of her head .
very well , i will answer any requests you have , t addressed everyone .
as anna stepped cautiously into the bathroom , kaylie perked up asked , can you make food , t ?
yes , kaylie .
what kind ?
jessica asked .
i can replicate any food you desire , jessie .
can you change the temperature and lights and stuff , t ?
alex asked .
yes , alex , i can .
do you require a change at this time ?
not really ... ok , lets get to the important stuff , girls ... rick stopped them .
like the missile ?
alex asked .
yeah , t , can you show me 81,373 bc , june 1 ?
no , i can not , rick , she answered just as evenly as everything else .
rick was taken aback , why ?
those memories have been removed , rick .
removed ?
who removed them ?
yes , rick , they were removed by ferdinand bergamiser .
can we get them back ?
yes , rick , she answered flatly .
rick thought he sensed another hint of emotion in the answer though , as if she wanted to say more but couldnt .
how ?
he asked .
i am not permitted to tell you that , rick .
what can you tell me about it , t ?
i can tell you he left a message , rick , in case he was no longer available .
would you like to see it ?
can we be ... displaced to that time , t ?
he asked instead .
i am not permitted to displace anyone within five hundred years of that time until those memories are restored , rick .
rick sighed , deflated , ok , lets see the message bergamisers face loomed out of the sphere , causing each of them to involuntarily flinch .
his voice immediately began reciting a poem the republic unwinds , by a knife from behind his successing young fellow wore a diamond of yellow .
although the court thought , a witch she was not the first victim is seen with a diamond of green .
the great assassination , that rocked a whole nation where the killer shot true lays a diamond of blue .
no virgin was she , but a vixen you see at his birth , in his bed , lays a diamond of red .
what the heck does all that mean ?
rick asked .
i am not permitted to tell you that , rick , but would you like to learn more about my memory technology ?
rick furrowed his eyebrows in incomprehension , why would i want to learn about that ?
i am programmed to anticipate your needs , rick , t said .
again , he sensed an urging in her total lack of tone , like a hint .
and i ... need ... to learn more about your memory technology ?
yes , rick you do .
rick turned to abby and shrugged , totally baffled .
i believe shes trying to give you a clue , rick .
abby speculated .
rick turned back toward t , ok , t , tell me about your wait , t , can you repeat that message so we can write it down ?
abby asked .
i have transferred the message to your uc , as you call it .
would you like to learn about my memory technology now , rick ?
rick smiled briefly , yes , t , i would love to hear about it .
and thanks for transferring the poem , to the uc .
i am programmed to anticipate your needs , rick , but i wouldnt classify that as a poem .
bignose has never been accused of literary genius before .
you should refer to it as a list of clues , to be more precise .
did i just hear a hint of cynicism ?
or was that a joke ?
i am programmed to speak to you in whatever vernacular you would most easily understand , rick .
she paused , switched the display to show a 3d image of a memory crystal , a red one .
it rotated in front of them , filling most of the five foot display .
did you notice the shape of this ?
t asked .
a diamond ?
jessica muttered .
yes , jessica , a diamond .
what a coincidence that you would see it that way , i suspect bignose saw it that way as well .
its actually an octahedron , but its two dimensional shape is a diamond .
it changed colors from red to yellow , green , blue , and back to red .
as they stared at the bright crystals , a portal opened in the top of the console and an arm containing four slots emerged .
quite obviously the memory crystals fit into the slots .
the display showed four crystals being inserted .
does it matter what color goes where ?
alex asked .
no , alex , color is irrelevant .
i would guess that someone using four different colors would do so for a cheap dramatic effect .
that was definitely sarcastic !
rick accused .
merely an observation , rick .
i only intend to educate you on the function of my crystal memory interface .
rick was quickly figuring out that t was on his side , helping him ... and enjoying it .
i believe you know all the information you will require about the crystal memory interface now , she concluded .
the arm retracted and disappeared into the console .
so , t , where would we find these crystals ?
rick asked .
i am not permitted to yeah , yeah perhaps you should be asking when instead of where , although where is certainly important also .
but youre not permitted to answer that either , are you ?
christy asked astutely .
no , christy , i am not permitted to give any information regarding the time , location , or even the existence of any missing memory crystals .
rick chuckled at the total lack of noticeable emotion in her voice , yet the complete intent to undermine bergamiser was so obvious that the girls could pick up on it .
can you give us the answers to the clues ?
anna asked .
i am not permitted to answer of course not !
anna groaned .
wait , rick burst out , t , if hypothetically we were to find four hypothetical memory crystals and hypothetically place them into the crystal memory interface , and hypothetically travel to 81,373 bc , how could that possibly affect anything in this time ?
i mean , john said the time we enter is a copy of this time space and can not affect this time space in any way so how could we stop the missile from being launched in this time space ?
very wise of you to notice , rick .
to answer your hypothetical question , he also said you could change the future of this time space with knowledge of that time space , but , she interrupted before he could ask the next question , i am programmed to anticipate your needs .
although it may be possible to stop the planetoid from striking earth in 75,252 with knowledge gained in the copy of our time space , i would suggest you consult someone who might know how to configure the machine to travel once again in this time space .
however slight the effects , the launching of the missile itself seriously contaminates the time line .
rick studied the display mindlessly .
but you said dr. taylor was the only person in our history with that knowledge , abby reminded her .
and hes dead , jessica contributed .
dr. taylor is dead in 2007 , but not in 1756 , jessie , t pointed out .
t , why dont we just consult dr. taylor in that time space , find out how to go into this time space , and stop the missile in our time and forget all this riddle nonsense ?
rick asked .
that would be feasible , rick , if you had another time displacement machine .
john made the mistake of allowing bignose to alter programming , so i am not allowed to send anyone to that time until his conditions are met .
rick again caught himself staring at the rotating figure .
t , he finally said with everyone deferring to him for some holy nugget of wisdom because they sure had none to offer , change destination to 44 bc , march 15 , please .
the scene instantly shifted back to an earth view , the others gathered closely , wondering what he was plotting .
change location to rome , please .
t gave him an overview of rome .
you mentioned you can actually locate a person , correct ?
yes , rick , as long as its a unique person , otherwise you would be required to provide further information .
locate julius caesar , please , t , he quickly commanded , and an image of caesar zipped into view .
he was sitting on a stool in his room , apparently having his hair styled .
can you locate bignose , t ?
no , i can not , rick .
ferdinand did not exist in that time .
when did he exist ?
ferdinand bergamiser existed from 1735 to 1779 and 5542 to 5567 , rick , but i believe you are trying to find out what times he visited , are you not ?
uh sorry , rick , that was a very wise idea , but bergamiser removed all records of his time travel .
jerk !
jessica muttered .
rick was stuck in deep thought again and suddenly perked up , locate caesars grand nephew , octavian , please , he requested .
a curly blonde haired boy appeared .
he looked like a mere child , although rick knew he was in his upper teens , probably seventeen , when he became emperor , which would have been on this day .
he wasnt sure of his age , but that detail wasnt important he wanted to find something else .
rick started manipulating the display , maneuvering the image , focusing up and down , especially on the neck , wrists , fingers ... nothing .
rick asked , can you show me his room , t ?
and was rewarded with an instant display of octavians sleeping quarters .
it was elegantly decorated and looked more like a young girls room than that of the future emperor of rome .
he had a large , canopied bed with brightly colored fabric draped across the top , bottom , and down the posts , with a sheer red drape covering the sides with a slit on one side for entry .
the floors and walls were two different shades of marble with large rugs covering most of the floor .
rick moved the image around the room to the huge vanity and dressers and began inspecting the tables and drawers .
he searched for ten minutes before alex finally said , dad , what are you looking for ?
a diamond of yellow , rick mumbled .
oh , you think this boy has it ?
well , there are questions about whether the roman republics end was when caesar was killed , but theres no question that caesars death at least started the end of the republic .
he was stabbed in the back , either literally or figuratively , but theres no doubt his successor was young , and i know no other republic that ended this way and none with so young a successor in rome .
it said he wore a diamond of yellow so why are you looking through his room ?
and why now ?
caesar is still alive at this time , right ?
can i look ?
rick thought for a moment , he was tired and hungry as well .
t ?
yes , rick ?
can you get us something to eat ?
you really need to learn to simply ask for whatever you want , rick , it is becoming tiresome to fight back the temptation to reply yes .
think of me as your slave , not a friend i wont be offended , does this mean i get to play with it now , dad ?
alex asked .
just a minute , honey .
t , give me a whopper with cheese and extra tomato , he ordered .
would you like fries with that , rick ?
t asked .
the girls hee hawed at her reply .
yes , please , and a sierra mist , too , he added .
a square column silently rose out of the floor and stopped at nearly chest height .
rick cautiously walked to it and opened a door on the side .
inside was a plate with the burger and fries along with a silver cup , which he assumed had sierra mist in it , a salt shaker , and ketchup bottle .
i took the liberty of adding salt and ketchup , rick i am programmed to anticipate my needs , right .
thanks , t !
a thin cylinder rose from the floor a few feet away and the top expanded into a round table about five feet in diameter , then four smaller ones blossomed around it to form seats .
is that satisfactory , rick ?
yes , thanks , t. he sat down and started to pour ketchup and add salt to his fries and burger .
i would like two taco supremes , a nacho supreme extra sour cream and tomato on both and an orange gatorade , t , kaylie commanded .
please close the door to the replicator and reopen it , kaylie , t answered .
kaylie obeyed , and her meal was ready , with hot sauce packets , just like she liked .
cool , thanks , t. no need to thank me , kaylie .
whos next ?
kaylie took her food to the table as jessica ordered , then christy .
when anna ordered , an identical table rose from the floor .
anna grabbed her meal and sat there .
abby ordered , and alex continued to play with the display instead of eating .
rick tried to convince her to eat , but she kept pestering him until he finally said , t , allow alex to share control , please .
done , rick .
alex now has permission to control the console .
t , id like a tv to watch ... where would you like it , rick ?
t asked .
he pointed , that wall , if you can ?
a digital display formed instantly , it appeared to be solid , but he properly guessed it was holographic , like the display on the console .
it was four feet high , six wide .
what would you like to watch , rick ?
t continued .
rick pondered the question .
christy butted in , do you have cable here ?
better than cable , christy , i can display any program or movie ever made .
you can say whatever you want to see or i can replicate a remote for you .
hold off on the remote , t. i want to watch next years first episode of battlestar gallactica , rick told her .
would you like it with or without commercials , rick ?
without , please .
it instantly started .
is this volume level acceptable , rick ?
perfect , t. whoa !
christy shouted .
oh my gosh !
anna cried , i can tell my friends whats going to happen on degrassi next week !
rick felt a sudden pang of guilt , pause the tv , please , t. the image froze .
id like to talk about this first , maybe were getting carried away already .
we can not discuss any of this with anyone .
period .
and im not sure if we should even be doing it .
alex was busy , mostly ignoring the conversation taking place , following octavian all over rome .
but rick , kaylie said , we already know about this , and we cant unlearn it now , so what else can we do ?
i think the damage is done , as long as we are responsible and dont tamper with the future , christy stated convincingly .
i agree with both of you , but it still makes me a bit uneasy , abby said .
does this mean i cant tell any of my friends about absolutely not , anna !
if you even think about it , ill ground you for life , rick vowed .
t can probably zap her memory out of her for you , jessica joked .
yes , jessie , i am fully capable of manipulating memories .
really , t ?
anna asked , shocked .
yes , anna , that technique was perfected in the 24th century i wont hear of any memory zapping of my rick started .
alex interrupted , dad !
come here .
i found it !
she yelled , bursting with excitement .
what ?
rick asked , jerking around to face her .
the yellow memory crystal !
she told him .
part ii when in rome ... chapter 14 a walk down history lane rick dropped his burger on his plate and rushed to his daughters side .
she instantly began explaining , i was running it 64 times normal speed and suddenly got a glimpse of it around his neck awesome , this may be easier than we thought , he said happily .
im rewinding it now , slower the image was of octavian walking through the street with guards all around him .
the necklace he wore clearly had a crystal attached to it .
the scene suddenly skipped to what appeared to be slightly earlier , where he was coming out of his home with the guards .
stop , t , play at half speed , forward , alex commanded .
those guys look mean , abby said .
those swords look mean , rick added .
that guy looks gay , anna concluded .
historians always describe octavian as very feminine , rick told her .
kaylie giggled , more like flaming little fairy .
rick silenced her with a scowl , dont be rude .
as octavian began walking down the street , the scene skipped forward to where he had the necklace .
rewind five seconds and pause , alex said , and then studied the scene .
hes clearly not wearing that necklace now .
t , how much time is missing when it stops ?
rick asked .
exactly fifteen minutes and 48.3 seconds , rick .
do we need to guess what happened to this missing time , t ?
im fairly confident that your guess would be completely accurate , rick , rick thought a moment , looking at his daughter .
he knew she had been studying the display carefully for some time and also wanted to assure her that he valued her opinion .
alex , what do you think ?
how should we go about getting it ?
how should i know ?
she shrugged .
youve been watching the boy , what are his habits ?
where does he go ?
who is he usually with ?
who does his hair ?
thats what i want to know they should be hanged , jessica joked .
he does his own hair , alex told her .
hes always looking at himself in the mirror and hes always either guarded heavily outside or surrounded by servants inside .
i wonder where he got it he must have gotten it from them !
she answered her father at the same time .
ok , watch him for a few days see if he takes it off .
he has to lay it down at some time , rick said as she began cranking the speed up and following him about his day shopping for clothes and jewelry , tossing coins to the poor , eating , etc .
rick soon got bored , or perhaps disgusted , by his habits , and patted alex on the back and returned to his seat .
resume tv , t , he said , and dug back into his food as the next season opener of his favorite sci fi show started .
pause , t , alex said wearily .
she walked over to the table , pulled ricks leg out as if it were a stool and sat on it , leaning her head into his shoulder .
he hasnt taken it off in five days , dad .
why dont you go get something to eat its at least three oclock now and all youve eaten today were a couple donuts , ok , she instantly perked up .
kaylie stood up with her , you can have my seat , ill watch prissy boy for a while , she looked at rick for permission .
right .
t , share control with kaylie , please , he directed .
done , rick .
kaylie began learning to use the console controls , quickly resuming where her friend had left off .
alex carried over a steaming plate of chicken , mashed potatoes , green beans , a roll , and drink .
she sat down , dad , its no use hes always wearing it and is always guarded too bad we cant lure him away with a woman , abby jested .
rick laughed , i hope you arent suggesting i try ?
and shuddered .
i think we should go in , see who gave it to him , then go back and get it from them , christy offered .
thats a perfect idea !
rick praised her .
t , he turned to ask , is that fifteen minutes missing from history altogether ?
no , rick , those memories are intact only viewing of them have been banned .
ok , i should probably go alone .
im not taking any chances on you girls getting hurt , rick said .
the girls groaned in perfect harmony .
come on , dad , i found the cube in the first place !
alex cried .
its completely safe , rick , come on !
hey t , has anyone ever died using this machine ?
kaylie questioned .
no , kaylie , nobody has .
there have been thirty one major injuries out of the 8022 uses since the safety controls were added .
jessica stood and placed her hands on her hips , looking imploringly at her father .
what ?
rick asked .
youre not going wearing those goofy shorts , are you ?
she said , instead of complaining .
he looked down at his hawaiian print , bright yellow shorts , hmmm .
that does present a problem , doesnt it ?
whats in the lockers ?
anna asked .
nobody had bothered to look in them they were too fascinated by everything else this day .
lets look , rick jumped up and they gathered around the lockers like school kids playing musical chairs .
they finally settled on one each , opening and calling out what they found .
one held boxes of coins from different times , one contained armor , swords , uniforms and many types of gadgets , old and futuristic .
they found boots , shoes , dresses , pottery , tools , jewels , and gems .
i dont see anything we could use , kaylie said , but i think we could get some ok , how ?
christy asked .
kaylie opened one of the boxes of coins , gold , coins , gems ... all we have to do is find someone alone who has some extra clothes and buy them .
abby stuck her head into the conversation , thats a great idea , but if banana pants goes up to someone in 44 bc , they will probably run , or try to kill him .
i thought of that already kaylie said confidently .
abby patiently waited for her solution .
we , she indicated herself and the other girls , could take these shirts and cut them up into tunics that will fit us ... rick didnt want them to go , but she had come up with a solution that required them going .
he couldnt think of a better one either .
rick ?
kaylie asked tentatively , putting on her most endearing face .
no fair !
not the puppy dog eyes !
we can do it !
all we have to do is cut the sides out of them and tie them together ... whos we ?
he asked .
um ... me , alex , christy ?
if i were to take anyone , it would be abby .
kaylie quickly drew a shirt over her head and pulled it down tightly , but these shirts wont fit abby , theyd only come to her hips , theyd come half way down our thighs .
abby grabbed a shirt and put it on .
sure enough , it only went just past her waist .
she raised her arms and it came up even further .
uh , yeah , theres no way im going out in public with this on !
see ? !
kaylie begged .
its just too dangerous , kaylie .
although you and christy are at our house more than your own , im still not allowed to make such decisions for you .
oh bull !
christy chimed in .
if we called our parents , you know they would say its ok .
they dont care what we do at alexs house because they know how incredibly over protective you are !
besides , you heard t. she said you can use the safety protocols to return everyone before they can even get seriously wounded , alex reminded him .
rick thought a moment , fuming slightly .
we dont have anything to cut the shirts with .
kaylie grinned and pulled a box out of a locker .
whats that ?
rick asked curiously .
sewing kit , she smiled .
figures , rick sighed .
t , can you please list all of those injuries which have occurred during time travel with this time machine ?
yes , rick .
professor nabakawa was injured by an arrow through the shoulder , dr. mandy crane was stabbed with a dagger in the abdomen , just summarize the injuries , please , t. ok , rick .
there were eight puncture wounds caused by arrows or knives , six broken wrists or ankles , five lacerations by knives , swords or teeth , five broken arms , four broken legs , twelve broken ribs , a severed finger , and a fractured jaw .
anna cringed , i dont think i want to go now !
me neither !
jessica concurred .
im not afraid !
kaylie said boldly .
im not either !
said christy , standing a little taller .
a severed finger ?
arrows through the shoulder ?
alex asked with a horrified look .
come on , alex , we get injuries like that at the playground or riding a bikes , kaylie tried to reason .
who do you know that ever got shot by an arrow at a playground ?
jessica retorted in support of her father now .
christy took over , look , thats 32 injuries out of over eight thousand trips , thats like 0.4 .
i bet thats lower than playground accident rates and much safer than gymnastics !
and car wrecks !
kaylie added .
ok , rick said , ill make this easy .
you give me a good reason why i should let you go ?
because you love us ?
alex said , changing her mind yet again .
thats a good reason not to let you go , rick decided easily .
because we can help ?
kaylie offered .
honey , i hate to hurt your feelings , but i think you girls would only get in the way .
and i would just have to worry about you the whole time .
kaylie frowned .
it was obvious his words hurt her feelings , as well as the rest of the girls , except maybe jessica .
jessica was outraged .
of course it didnt take much to get a response from her .
who found the cube ?
who opened the cube ?
who learned how to operate the uc ?
who found the tunnel leading in here ?
who found out about the world ending ?
who found the crystal ?
and whose idea was it to go buy clothes and make tunics and stuff rick felt stupid mainly because everything she said was true .
i thought you didnt want to go !
was his only argument .
i dont , but they do and they deserve to !
she stared at him like a mother would stare at a child whose hand was still in the cookie jar .
now rick felt stupid and guilty .
rick , shes right , and they would have so much fun , abby chimed in .
not you too , abby ?
he looked at abby as if she stabbed him in the back .
how appropriate .
et tu brute ?
why do people go sky diving if its so dangerous ?
because the excitement is worth the risk .
this would be both exciting and educational .
think about it , rick , youd let them go to washington dc for a field trip , wouldnt you ?
thats probably much more dangerous and couldnt possibly be more rewarding in any way plus you would be there to protect them !
abby submitted .
can i get some of this armor on before we do battle ?
rick asked facetiously .
everyone stared angrily at him .
anna ?
help ?
he sighed , ok , ok !
yay !
kaylie led the cheers .
abby simply smiled at him to let him know she thought he had done the right thing .
he still didnt agree .
but first , he tried to regain some of his lost authority , we are going to set down some hard core rules .
ok ?
which means , jessica started out sarcastically , that we have to listen to a long , boring lecture while he over prepares , as usual .
rick wrapped his arm around her neck and pretended to squeeze , yes , that is what i intend to do !
and if you dont like it , you wont go .
he shot a stern look at abby , and abby will fully support me on that , wont you ?
abby emphatically shook her head yes .
alex , you and kaylie need to find us an isolated family close to town who has an extra mans tunic or uniform to sell , at least an hour , maybe two hours before octavian acquires the crystal .
preferably close to the part of town hes traveling in , rick started dispensing orders .
how will we know if they are willing to sell it ?
alex asked .
rick gave her an appraising look , you two are extremely smart i trust you to figure that out , he told her confidently .
the two girls glowed with pride as they hurried to the console .
jess , christy i want you two to help make the clothes , and anna , you find something to tie them with , please ?
the three girls launched into work immediately .
abby wrapped her arms around him , and what chore do i get ?
you and i are going treasure hunting .
we need to find enough roman valuables to ensure our purchases , and maybe more to buy access , guides , or even the crystal itself .
the girls were all diligently working .
abby took time to show christy and jessica how to cut the shirts to make them look like the ones the children in rome were wearing , then went back to where she and rick were attempting to sort and classify coins and jewels .
ive never seen them so excited and united , rick whispered .
yeah , its really incredible .
nice to be a part of it !
was that an opening ?
rick thought , suddenly feeling tightness in his chest .
he recalled the last time he took a chance to extend their relationship to the next level and was summarily dismissed .
he fumbled for words , playing with the coins absently .
abby didnt notice his awkward behavior .
he watched her skillful fingers nimbly picking through the treasures for quite a while before she realized he was lost in thought .
where are you , rick ?
her words snapped him out of his trance .
i was just thinking how nice it would be if you were with us permanently , he stammered awkwardly .
abbys rummaging stopped as she flipped her hair over her shoulder and stared at him over that same shoulder .
is that an invitation to move in , or a proposal ?
she asked coyly .
rick decided to play off his fear by bringing a finger to his chin thoughtfully in an attempt to figure out the answer .
he often resorted to being silly when he was afraid to be serious , let me see if i propose , you might backhand me .
i might !
she said playfully , knowing his habit well .
but if i asked you to move in , you could possibly only verbally assault me ... ... or i may assault you in other ways , she said seductively .
well , he said , raising his eyebrows , that may help the decision process along ... she stared , waiting , and then held up her hand , ok , what is it ?
rick suddenly felt confident and played harder , dawdling a while before wrapping his hand around the back of her neck and pulling her into a kiss .
she sat back quickly , so ? ? ?
she demanded an answer .
rick smiled broadly and winked , so when can we go haul your stuff over ?
you have to ask me first she was fighting to maintain her aloofness , doing a pretty good job of hiding her excitement over the prospect .
oh , if youre still not interested , i can wait another two years to work up the courage again tomorrow !
she blurted .
he blinked a couple times , that was too easy whats the catch ?
no catch , she insisted .
why are you suddenly so eager now ?
not that im complaining !
a little birdie made me realize some things today ... she said , glancing over at kaylie .
does that little birdie have jet black hair ?
he asked .
maybe ... a thirteen year old , soccer playing , history buff , video game nut birdie ?
sounds like the same birdie , she giggled .
i need to adopt that little birdie , he said , looking at that little birdie as she excitedly helped alex search ancient rome .
shes not the only one .
your girls always make me feel at home and loved like a mother .
kaylie really loves you too , though and shes really smart and mature , he smiled and turned back to abby , shes a great little friend , too .
but lets plan this move you wan na take the van and your car in the morning as soon as the girls leave for school ?
sounds perfect .
should we tell them ?
i think we need to surprise them , rick quickly decided .
yeah .
besides , we need to focus on this right now , she agreed and started sifting through coins again , watching them scatter as they fell back into the box .
im going to see how theyre doing , rick suddenly said , getting up and laying his hand gently on her shoulder for a moment .
she turned and smiled at him as he left .
it felt right .
perfect .
finally .
abby now wondered why she had waited so long .
well , hows it going ?
rick asked as he wormed in between alex and kaylie , putting an arm around each of them .
i feel like a thief , searching through peoples homes like this , alex admitted with a slightly scrunched up nose .
its not that bad , were just looking .
i think we found a good home , too , kaylie said .
rick raised his eyebrows , oh ?
show me well , this family seems to be just a woman , two boys and a girl , but they have several mens tunics and uniforms that we could use .
but we dont know where the father is we think he could be a soldier , traveling abroad or in a war somewhere .
that worries me , kaylie said .
why does that worry you ?
rick asked .
in those times it was often considered bad luck to disturb any belongings of a man while he was away at war .
they may not be willing to part with anything or they might be beaten by the man when he returns i think we should just bribe one of the kids to do it .
theyre about our age , alex suggested .
hmm ... so we really dont know anything for sure , except what we observe .
perhaps we should go in and learn on our own .
if we fail , we can go back and try something else , said rick .
groundhog day !
alex giggled .
practically , yes .
good analogy .
good plan too , i think .
crude , but effective , kaylie concurred .
well , see if you can find out how much money they have so well know how much we might need .
id rather go twice than three times , if you know what i mean .
this could take days if we dont prepare right rick ?
a tug at his shirt accompanied the address .
he turned to find anna , christy and jessica all wearing their creations .
wow !
very nice looking !
he commented .
jessica came forward , we found some silk dress that looked like a cow wore it , so we used that .
i did , anna claimed .
the shirts were very well cut and tied with ribbons of green twisted with blue .
you girls did an excellent job .
i think we should be able to go really soon if we continue making such progress , he said , leaving five smiling , happy children to go back to helping abby sort the loot .
twenty minutes later , alex came and wrapped her arms around her father , staring over his shoulder at the coins he had piled in front of him .
they only have a few coins , no jewels at all .
it looks like theyre really poor , daddy , but kaylie thought of a problem , she informed him .
whats that ?
how do we talk to these people ?
they speak a different language , dont they ?
rick pondered a moment , wondering why they could understand speech when they were watching the display .
he faced the machine , t , how are we to communicate with the romans and why are they speaking english ?
i translate the language both here and in the other time space , rick , she answered .
they let out a collective sigh .
thats good , id hate to have to learn a new language overnight , a very relieved christy announced .
ok girls , lets get ready .
well leave after we eat , rick said , looking at his watch .
it was 6 30 already .
while they ate , the talk was excited , vibrant , focused on the mission ahead .
rick smiled inwardly at how interested and helpful the girls were as they planned the whole mission with exacting details .
... thats why we think we should go in to buy your clothes , alex concluded after kaylie explained that children were generally not permitted to speak to adults .
you see , rick , the mother isnt home until twenty minutes before we need to be in town .
that wouldnt give you much time to persuade her , and she probably wouldnt part with it anyway , kaylie opined .
ok. well try that .
how far ahead are we going in ?
one hour , 45 minutes , alex said .
thats when the kids are coming back from playing in the stream and washing their clothes kaylie added .
why dont you just go in while theyre gone and take them ?
anna asked .
thats dishonest .
rick replied .
hello ?
were trying to save the world .
do you want to say , no , we couldnt save the world honestly , so we just let everyone die ?
that doesnt sound right .
anna , if it comes down to saving the world , ill steal a uniform , but if we can do it with a clear conscience well , id prefer to be responsible .
anna rolled her eyes , always got ta set a good example , dont you ?
like youre my father !
i dont see your father trying to set a good example !
blasted jessica .
anna got up in a huff , heading toward the other side of the table , obviously intent on doing harm to jessica .
anna !
sit down now !
rick ordered .
anna stopped , considering her plans for a moment .
jessica was still taunting her , shaking her head around wildly with her tongue sticking out , flopping around .
she finally decided it would be in her best interests to behave , and stomped back to her seat while jessica continued to tease .
jess , you want to take a swim with me ?
rick threatened .
jessica ceased quickly , no !
rick added a menacing glare .
sorry , anna , jessica added as she got the hint .
ok .
so we go there and wait for them to return ?
rick asked .
yeah , about a hundred yards from their house is some brush you can hide in while we go make friends and , hopefully , bring you a nice soldiers tunic .
that should allow us to get close enough to octavian .
a fellow soldier would be able to get closer , alex said .
and as soon as we find out where he gets the necklace , we stop and return , then we can go back and intercept it , kaylie finished .
the group continued to finalize their plans while they finished eating .
can we watch them from here , t ?
abby asked nervously no , abby , they will be gone only one minute and you must not interfere with their return .
one minute ?
alex asked .
yes , alex , there is always a return time of one minute , no matter how long your trip is .
that is the default setting .
do you wish to change that ?
no , rick answered , thats perfect .
im glad , actually i was worried it would take all night .
he held three necklaces out after slipping the gold one around his neck .
pick one , he told the girls .
alex picked the blue one because that was her favorite color , christy chose the silver one , and kaylie took the red one .
chapter 15 a little trip to rome do you confirm this destination and location , rick ?
yes .
would you like to put any time limits or any other restrictions on your journey at this time , rick ?
no .
do you wish to disable safety protocols , rick ?
no , he answered that question much quicker than the others .
everyone who is not traveling , please step well outside the red crystal circle , t intoned as the area started to flash .
abby , jessica and anna all stepped back after giving everyone a quick hug .
rick nervously stood with his arms crossed the girls all held hands firmly .
suddenly anxious , alex croaked , what if we get scrambled or something ?
even before safety protocols were installed , alex , in 10,127 trips nobody has ever been scrambled , t said calmly .
were ready when you are , t , rick tried to sound confident , looking at abby and the other girls , wondering if he would ever see them again .
destination confirmed safe , initiating displacement , t answered .
they just vanished , no fancy lights , no countdown ?
how un dramatic !
jessica complained , disappointed .
rick didnt remember traveling .
t had mentioned a slight , brief orientation period upon arrival .
he looked around to see the girls standing with him in the exact positions they were in the room , but now amidst a clump of trees and brush .
the view of the land gradually faded in .
it took about five seconds before he was able to move , and noticed the girls moving simultaneously with him .
they all gathered and locked arms around each other , taking in the view .
christy finally spoke , you know , i expected a more eventful journey , and a more exciting arrival .
we chose this spot because it was not exciting , kaylie reminded her .
what did you expect ?
flying through worm holes with lights streaking by ?
alex teased .
it certainly wasnt what i thought it would be , either , but were here and we have a mission , dont we ?
rick reminded them .
yeah !
they answered , eager to be trusted with their task .
he gave them each a hug and headed for his hiding place , offering final words of encouragement .
the girls casually strolled toward the house , occasionally glancing back where rick was crouched , commenting on how he tensely watched them .
it was a beautiful , sunny day .
the fresh , new green grass rolled for half a mile past the farm house .
the temperature was in the low seventies , but felt chilly in the clothes they wore the steady breeze whipped through the open sides , removing all the trapped body heat their normal clothes would have afforded them .
in the distance , past the farm , they could see the edge of the city they were literally on its doorstep .
they were less than a mile to the east and could clearly see the main thoroughfare leading into it just a few hundred yards to the north , crossing into the heart of rome .
the road they needed to take soon .
it looks just like north carolina , kaylie said , i expected something a little different .
yeah , me too , its so isolated , but so close to town kaylie agreed .
rick felt like it was halloween and he was standing on the sidewalk as he sent his excited kids to a strangers door for candy .
he also felt useless .
here he was , just observing , as the costumed trio headed toward their quarry .
alex carried a pouch anna had made from the sleeve of one of the shirts and christy and kaylie each had one filled with coins and gems .
rick smiled broadly at the thought of three young girls being entrusted with enough money to buy several small countries and broke into a chuckle when it really hit him .
and that was just a handful of the hundred or more pounds that remained in the boxes .
he mused that it was probably enough to buy the united states .
the coins werent so valuable because they were gold , as most were not they were valuable because they were so old and in nearly perfect condition .
some of the gems also made the hope diamond look like a 99 engagement ring .
he decided after seeing all the coins and jewels , he could easily afford to send rob that spanish coin .
he felt his own pouch , which he carried , since he had no belt yet , and then remembered he was supposed to watch the girls .
the girls timed their interception well , seeming to merge accidently with the ancient youngsters as they came across the last knoll before their home .
hi !
an over excited christy shouted before they were even spotted .
alex and kaylie shot her angry glares .
she cowered slightly they had decided kaylie was going to speak , since she was the oldest and biggest and knew the most about roman history .
hail !
who goes there ?
the oldest boy yelled back angrily .
as they approached , the girls stalled , with kaylie stepping forward slightly .
the elder boy , on the right , had short , dark hair , and dark brown eyes .
he stood a mere five feet tall .
he appeared to be about eleven years old or younger , but they knew he was fifteen from their research .
they look much smaller in person , alex whispered .
kaylie nodded almost imperceptibly .
the girl was slightly smaller than christy , but they knew she was two years older .
she looked much healthier though .
she wore an infectious smile of a perpetually happy kid , and seemed to be skipping when she was walking .
she had the same dark brown eyes as her brothers , but flopping from her head was a three foot long mane of nearly blonde hair .
the younger brother was a carbon copy of his older sibling , only smaller .
he looked to be a normal sized eight year old kid .
he was ten .
they all wore the same type tunics off white wool and in desperate need of replacement .
the little boys shoulder strap was ripped and hung down across his chest .
the edges of their clothes were frayed and each had a dozen or more holes , noticeable from ten yards away .
the youngest was dirty as a pig , but the other two apparently bathed and washed their clothes in the stream while the little one played in mud .
as they neared , kaylie quit studying them and put on her friendliest smile , hi , im kaylie and this is our land , what is your business on it ?
the older boy demanded .
kaylie thought he sounded more frightened than anything .
i um , she stammered .
the girl shoved her brother aside , what my vicious brother , lucius , is trying to say is welcome !
she said with a bright smile .
she then turned to lucius , these girls are not wearing swords and dont seem to be threatening .
she then turned back to kaylie , extending her hand , im vespasia , and this is my little brother , titus .
what brings you to our farm ?
kaylie was much happier to deal with the friendly young girl , im kaylie , this is christy , and this is alex .
were traveling to rome , planning to find a new home , she said .
what odd names , the little boy commented .
you cant buy a home in rome unless you have a lot of money or are related to a senator , lucius said skeptically .
well , they must have a lot of money , vespasia said as she leaned forward and ran her hands across the edge of kaylies homemade tunic , i have never seen linen this fine , its almost like silk , who made this ?
her big , round eyes opened widely with awe .
i did , christy volunteered , and then came forward to feel the girls fabric .
she ran her hands over vespasias garment , immediately noticing how coarse it was and recalling how rick had said they looked like grain sacks .
this felt like a grain sack .
vespasia continued as christy checked out her tunic , yours are so soft , and your belts are so pretty , they must be silk !
the girls blushed collectively , they had thought these clothes were very simple , but this roman girl treated them like 10,000 designer dresses .
yes , yes they are silk christy started to say .
lucius , becoming even more suspicious , interrupted , wait , if youre wealthy , and traveling to rome , wheres your chariot ?
where are your horses ?
you dont even smell like youve been near a horse !
and who do you travel with ?
where are your parents and servants ?
three young girls wouldnt be coming to buy land in rome and they wouldnt be walking through our land the main road is over there !
he pointed , then stood with arms crossed , impatiently waiting for an answer .
well , we uh , well , were on foot nobody would travel that road on foot !
certainly not three kids .
the next village is days away by foot were with our father !
alex blurted , frightened .
see !
ive uncovered a plot !
he plans to ambush us and take our lands !
vespasia shoved him to the ground , how absurd !
these girls clothes are worth more than our entire farm , lucius !
you think everything is an evil plot lately .
she turned back to the girls , you mean us no harm , right ?
she seemed hopeful .
no , of course not !
kaylie exclaimed .
where is your father , then ?
little titus asked .
hes up there , in the bushes , kaylie pointed .
see !
he hides !
lucius spat .
no !
he hides because , well , because hes embarrassed .
his tunic is ruined and he has nothing else to wear .
he sent us down here to see if we could perhaps purchase one ?
kaylie said .
alex reached for her pouch , opened it , and poured some coins into her hand .
a couple fell to the ground and lucius picked one up .
vespasia , obviously star struck by all the shiny coins , barked at lucius , go get our friends father a uniform while i show them around !
but ... they belong to our father !
hes dead !
hes dead , lucius !
and we need the money , now go !
she ordered .
the girls looked at each other guiltily the shock of the kids father being dead knocked them back a bit .
but mother wouldnt allow it , and shes selling another blanket today , well be fine as soon as our livestock matures and breeds , he argued .
vespasia stood her ground and pointed defiantly while the girls watched the scene , disbelieving .
lucius attempted to defy his sister once more , mother will be furious !
again , the small girl stood her ground , arm extended toward the house , directing him .
then she shall be furious at me , and you wont starve tonight !
he lowered his head and left .
titus followed .
our father died two years ago in a battle .
he was a soldier in the thirteenth legion .
our mother has been trying to keep the land ever since .
we help harvest grain , tend the animals , plant crops , and weave fabrics , but most of the work is too hard for a strong man , much less a woman and young children , the girl explained as she led them around the farm , pointing out where things needed to be done .
lucius thinks mother will somehow manage , but we have slowly used up all that was left of fathers salary .
now we get only a couple coins a week from the blankets i weave and mother spends her time either gathering food or selling what i make .
about all lucius is good for is milking cows .
titus cant even do that .
thats sad , alex commented .
dont feel pity for us , well survive !
the roman girl said with the same happy smile she wore when they met .
alex decided to try to change the subject , so how much is this tunic hes fetching worth ?
oh , probably about five sestertii if it were new , but its used .
ill let you decide .
anything is better than starving while it hangs uselessly .
alex was floored with compassion for the story .
she couldnt imagine what kind of iron character this girl possessed after losing her father and what appeared to be a wonderful life .
she hoped she could help .
well , da , my father said to pay whatever you ask for it , he is quite rich .
she opened her pouch and stuck her hand in , returning with roughly 25 coins and held them out , do you think this would be enough for such a cherished family heirloom , and enough to curb your mothers anger for selling it ?
vespasias eyes grew to the size of cantaloupes , oh , no , i couldnt possibly alex grabbed her hand and placed the coins in it , spilling several to the ground .
take it , its far less value than my fathers pride .
titus came out just then carrying a studded leather tunic .
it was a rich dark brown color with lighter tan strips of leather hanging from it .
he approached the girls , who were each standing on the lower rails of a split rail fence , leaning over with hay for the animals .
lucius said to bring you this hes too busy crying like a baby .
vespasia laughed , tell him to be a man for once .
she then turned to the girls , he turns sixteen soon but still acts like a little girl sometimes .
i have more chance of becoming a man than he .
do you really have to get married when youre sixteen here ?
kaylie suddenly asked , forgetting where she was .
the girl seemed confused , well , if youre rich , yes .
some girls at twelve , but you should know oh , i just thought it may be different in different cities , she quickly tried to cover her ignorance , i dont want my father to force me to marry .
i was wondering why you arent married now , as wealthy as you are , you must be at least fifteen ... how can you tell im not married ?
kaylie asked , now she was confused .
you dont wear a stola , or how far away did you say you lived ?
vespasia was becoming suspicious .
oh , not too far , but im only thirteen .
my father told me i could wait until we get settled in rome though .
we planned this journey when i was eleven , kaylie was trying her best poker face .
vespasias face lit up , oh , that makes sense , if you had married , you would have had to stay with your husband instead of your father and sisters .
yeah , she hugged christy , who was closest , i couldnt be away from my family .
alex took the opportunity of a slight lull to remind kaylie they were there for a reason , speaking of family , we must get back to father .
he may be worried .
oh , yeah , we should hurry , christy added .
can i go with you ?
the bright eyed roman girl asked .
kaylie was mulling the question over when vespasia asserted further , i go into rome often by myself i can show you around the city .
you could get lost or killed if you dont know what youre doing .
we should ask father , alex finally answered for her .
yes , certainly , the girl agreed , go ahead and ill catch up i cant carry all this money or i wouldnt make it back alive .
with that , vespasia ran into the house while the girls walked briskly back to the brush , hoping to arrive before she caught up .
the girl was on their heels a minute later , as they ascended the small rise to where rick hid in the bushes .
you sure are in a hurry !
vespasia panted , arms and ponytail swaying rhythmically as she ran .
they allowed her to catch up .
together , they approached the bushes .
alex took the new clothes behind the bush and handed them to rick , and alerted him of their new friend .
rick smiled at the thought that the girls seemed to make friends everywhere they went .
it must be due to his wonderful parenting !
he quickly dragged the tunic over his head , finding it fit surprisingly well .
so , she wants to be our guide ?
i see no problem with that we could definitely use one , but what if she finds out what were doing here ?
this is a recon mission , soldier , rick teased , i actually think we should tell her what were looking for .
another pair of eyes wouldnt hurt , he said , adjusting his outfit a little .
there , does it look good on me ?
his daughter appraised him carefully , well , if you want the truth , it looks pretty stupid .
but if you were going to battle , you couldnt possibly be better dressed .
at least youre not wearing a towel with a hole cut in the center and no sides !
rick chuckled and hugged her .
they ducked out of the brush to be welcomed by the others .
you look good , rick , christy blurted .
kaylie elbowed her and grabbed her arm , yes , father , you look splendid , she emphasized father for christy .
apparently vespasia didnt notice the slip she was staring intently at the man in her fathers clothes .
she thought it was a dream , had she really been so disconnected from the loss of her father ?
she had always acted tough , as if it were honorable for a girl to lose her daddy at war .
rick saw she had frozen , but could not tell why .
her eyes started to form tears .
hi , im rick .
i understand you would like to guide us through rome ?
she just stared blankly .
what is your name ?
he tried .
she started to answer , but couldnt .
rick knelt down in front of her , placing his hands gently on her shoulders and softly shook her , are you ok ?
she snapped out of her daydream about the last time she had seen her father in that outfit .
oh hi , im vespasia , she stuttered , bashfully sticking her face in her tunic to dry the tears .
vespasia !
what a beautiful name for a beautiful girl !
are you going to be ok now ?
yes , she said weakly , then straightened herself and mustered some fortitude , yes , sorry , i just thought i saw a ghost .
you look just like my father did last time i saw him wearing that , she explained .
oh , im so sorry .
i never thought how difficult that could be no , its ok .
it feels good to be able to help .
we should be on our way , shouldnt we ?
i understand youre in a hurry for some reason ?
rick glanced at the girls and motioned them all to start walking , yes , we need to go , please .
tell us about rome , and yourself , on the way , will you ?
but i feel i should let you know why we are really here , first .
the girl looked up at him inquisitively as they walked side by side .
he told her of the necklace and that it was to be given to octavian today , but they did not know how .
he explained that it was a priceless family jewel that meant a lot to them .
she ate up the tale like french fries .
they quickly learned that vespasia was indeed a veteran of the city .
she explained the exact route octavian and his guards would be taking , how they could watch him , and how he could acquire the necklace .
eventually , she got around to telling about her life , the family , farm , house , and her escapades in rome .
nobody was paying attention to anything but her .
alex asked specific questions about how they built their homes , what they were made of and how they cleaned them .
christy soaked up all the information she could about the sports they played .
kaylie talked on and on with her about clothes , and rick prodded her for more information about the markets , army , and economy .
before they knew it , they were within the walls of rome , staring at the exact steps octavian would traverse in just a few minutes .
rick ushered the girls to where the video had ended then turned and faced where octavian would arrive .
he leaned over in a huddle with the girls and started giving instructions .
ill go ahead of you and see if i can find anyone suspicious , vespasia volunteered .
thats a good idea .
thanks .
if we get separated , well meet you at your farm , ok ?
she showed him her brightest smile and put her hands on her hips , we wont ill know where you are !
she then turned and blended into the crowd .
ok .
remember , girls , use the necklace if there is any danger whatsoever to anyone .
i will carry christy and you two walk behind me , act like youre looking at the food and wares for sale , but be looking for the necklace it may be for sale and he may buy it .
why do you need to carry someone ?
kaylie asked .
so she can watch behind me and keep an eye on octavian unless you want to walk backwards and draw attention to us ?
he explained .
they giggled and agreed the idea made sense .
they were at an intersection , hundreds of people shuffled around them .
kaylie saw two boys playing with a ball , trying to keep it away from each other with their feet .
she tapped ricks arm and asked if she could go play .
you have four minutes , not a second more , he answered .
she smiled and bounced off .
alex then pulled him over to a stand where they checked out the food .
we should buy some bread and fruit for vespasias family , dad .
wouldnt that be nice ?
plus it would look a little more normal if we at least had one of these baskets .
go for it , he replied and stole a glance down the street in anticipation of the future emperor .
alex picked what looked like a three gallon basket and asked the elderly woman how much it would cost .
before the woman could tell her , she added two smaller ones , then two round loaves of bread , a dozen different fruits and some dried meat .
the woman seemed overly pleased with the sale , which made alex wonder if she had been shammed on the price .
she simply smiled and handed over what the woman requested , plus two extra bits .
the woman graciously thanked her and insisted she take an extra basket which would fit neatly inside the first one .
alex accepted the offer gladly .
she excitedly ran to rick to show him , but he was calling kaylie , who had two boys fumbling all over the place trying to get the ball from her .
they all converged in the center of the street and christy urged rick to pick her up with a playful look on her face .
rick hauled her up on one shoulder so she could watch behind them and keep an eye on octavian , relaying the information right into ricks ear .
alex watched the street for vespasia , but could not see her anywhere .
octavian , clad in a long , pure white robe with a golden rope belt and flowers in his hair , came up the street with his entourage in tow .
he smiled at everyone , often waving like a beauty queen .
this made rick laugh uncontrollably when christy explained it to him .
the soon to be emperor finally turned and started to walk toward them .
rick walked a few yards ahead of the group , whispering in christys ear to tell her to notify him if he needed to stop or go faster and watch out for the necklace to be handed to him .
this is fun !
was her cheery reply .
just pay attention , ok ?
rick told her .
christy tried to give detailed commentary along the trip , he just gave a little boy a coin .
awww , hes so cute !
he patted a little crippled kid on the head .
stop a sec , hes kneeling down to give the kid something oh , how sweet !
christy ?
yes ?
just the important details , ok ?
ok , father !
she teased .
octavian must have given fifty coins to beggars and children , plus he handed out flowers to all the little girls and he stopped twice to buy clothes or food for orphaned kids .
ricks arms were already growing tired and he could feel chaffing around his neck from the leather outfit and christys squirming .
they were nearly ten minutes into their stroll when rick saw a commotion up ahead .
a woman was screaming , thief !
rick , at just a hair over six feet tall , was surprisingly well above the short crowd and could see now that it was vespasia who the woman had by the hair , calling for help .
two of the guards are running at us !
christy almost yelled in his ear from the excitement .
rick lowered her quickly to the ground , stay with me , girls !
he ordered as he tried to follow the guards without looking too obvious .
what of this ?
demanded the larger of the two guards on the scene .
he was possibly an inch taller than rick and twenty pounds heavier mostly beer gut with a scarred , square chin and a flat nose .
if he had any hair , it was hidden under his helmet .
his voice was deep and scratchy and brought fear into the eyes of the formerly perpetually happy child .
this rodent has stolen a necklace from me !
the woman reported .
she was a fairly attractive thirty something lady wearing a moderately expensive flowing purple robe .
her wavy black hair was tied tightly behind her head , but her eyes were hateful , taking away from her appearance greatly .
her brow scrunched up in a way that spoke of evil .
the woman was tearing at vespasias tunic , trying to get at the necklace the girl had tucked inside , enlarging several of the holes in her garment .
the girl was trying to free her long ponytail from the wicked womans grasp , her legs and arms flailing around wildly , obviously also in pain from the tearing of hundreds of hairs from her head .
despite her painful and vulnerable position , vespasia still managed to shriek , i stole nothing !
this woman tried to steal from me !
the bigger guard looked to the smaller one , passing a nod , the smaller one said , show us this necklace , street rat !
rick came forward and wrenched the womans hand from vespasias head , lifting the girl from the ground by her underarms to his side , where he cuddled her closely with his arms wrapped firmly around her .
this startled both the guards and the woman .
you should be ashamed of yourself , wench , picking on such a small child !
rick scolded , his voice filled with authority .
the smaller guard butted in , this woman is obviously a respectable one , while this child is obviously a rick raised his hand as if threatening to swat the guard , which brought the sword of the larger guard out , by instinct .
what is it to you , veteran , he said condescendingly , which made rick realize he was wearing an informal military uniform .
he immediately recognized the decorations on the mans chest .
he slowly released vespasia and held her a few inches away , leveling his gaze at the bigger man , sorry , captain , but this girl is my daughter and certainly no thief .
if you wish the truth , she is carrying a yellow gem necklace i gave her for her twelfth birthday .
it belonged to my mother .
the captain looked down at the frightened child , show us this necklace , girl , he ordered .
vespasia made a good play of looking up at rick as if to ask for permission .
rick nodded , yes , honey , show the captain your necklace .
why arent you displaying it you were so proud of it sorry , father , the girl continued her part flawlessly , but she kept trying to rip it from me so i tried to hide it inside my tunic .
i got scared and tried to run away from her !
she was half crying through her explanation .
what a good show , rick thought , come on , vespasia , show the good man your necklace , he encouraged .
she slowly stuck her hand down into her tunic and pulled the necklace out , her cries changing to a gloating smile .
shes lying !
the hateful woman spat .
the captain appraised rick thoroughly , finally concluding , the daughter of a veteran in the famous fighting thirteenth legion ?
come now , i find that impossible to believe , he determined .
the thirteenth legion ?
wow !
he was wearing the uniform of caesars most elite and most respected squad among all the romans .
he gathered his thoughts as he heard the captain speaking in praise of him .
he began fumbling in his pouch until he found a similar stone , pulling it out to show .
it was blue , but roughly the same size and shape .
see , we have several gems of this type , he explained to the captain .
the captain raised his eyebrows at the woman , who was quite shocked , indeed .
arrest this woman !
the captain barked .
no , please , let her go .
it may just be a misunderstanding .
no harm has been done , and perhaps my daughter has learned not to stray too far from her father , rick said diplomatically .
she ripped my hair out !
vespasia hissed .
rick clasped his hand over the little girls mouth , nodding at the guard .
the guard unclenched his big meaty hands from the womans arms and she wasted no time stumbling away in retreat , eventually turning a corner and disappearing .
as the commotion died down , rick took the necklace from the girls neck and placed it in his pouch , calmly prodding the girls to come with him .
that was sooooo cool , vespasia !
alex gushed as they walked to the corner of the street , all grinning from ear to ear .
mission accomplished , kaylie declared proudly .
rick stopped and turned , getting down on one knee .
he squared vespasia in front of him by the shoulders and went into father mode , now , little one , you could have been hurt or killed .
you should have come to me when you spotted it .
she lowered her head , afraid to look him in the eyes .
sorry , i know i thwapp ! !
rick saw her eyes widen in surprise as she grabbed her side in pain .
she pulled a bloody hand away from her side and stared at it with incomprehension .
just then , over her shoulder , rick saw him bergamiser .
he was on a balcony across the street .
he was loading another bolt into his crossbow .
as the shocked girl looked at her hand , she began to faint .
rick scooped her up and tried to stand when he felt his own pain .
the bolt bignose had fired had only grazed vespasias side , but was lodged in his upper thigh .
he winced and staggered , realizing he couldnt make it around the corner before another volley was launched .
he fumbled , nearly losing the woozy girl but managed to maintain a firm grip on her .
he was trying to cover her with his body when he heard the second missile impact his shoulder , going completely through .
vespasia saw this and instantly passed out .
the other girls shrieked in alarm .
rick , full of adrenalin now , lunged to his feet with the limp girl still clutched in his arms .
he awkwardly struggled around the corner before another arrow could be flung in his direction .
the girls followed , shielding themselves behind him .
rick staggered against the wall , feeling dizzy , smearing a bloodstain down the rough stucco as he slumped .
alex !
grab that arrow and yank it out !
he ordered .
alex was hysterical , i cant !
youre not supposed to do that anyway , dad !
i know , but if you dont , i wont be able to run or even walk !
why dont we just use the necklace ?
christy insisted .
rick considered that for a second while he fought back blackness in his own eyes , then looked at the lifeless girl in his arms , no , we cant leave her here , she could die .
but so could you , daddy !
alex sobbed .
nonsense , if i was in danger of dying the necklaces would have recalled us already .
now just quit complaining and do what youre told !
alex clutched the basket in her arms as if hiding behind it and adamantly shook her head no .
christy finally took the initiative as rick stared angrily at his daughter , quickly wrapping her hand around the shaft and yanking it out in one smooth motion .
rick gritted his teeth through the pain , fighting to remain conscious .
alex nearly fainted at the sight of the wound , which was only slightly trickling blood .
see , i knew it didnt hit an artery .
christy casually pointed out .
now lets go before one does , rick grunted .
somehow , his arms still held tightly onto vespasia .
he was glad her body blocked the view of his leg and he didnt dare risk a glance at his shoulder .
steeling himself , he pushed off the wall and to his feet .
come on girls , straighten up and lets go , now , he was saying this mostly to alex , who looked a bit unsteady .
rick half hopped , half limped , following christy , with kaylie and alex at his side , helping him stay upright .
christy quickly led them to the main road where they hid behind a display while kaylie doubled back to purchase some cloth .
she quickly returned and tossed the white muslin to rick and then went to stand guard .
rick sat on the ground , back against the wall , and shifted vespasia so he could see the damage to his leg .
blood ran all the way to his ankle , but otherwise it didnt appear to be too bad .
he then checked vespasia to see how badly she was hurt .
blood covered her entire hip and back , but the arrow had caught nothing but the outer layer of her side , making an angry red groove above her waist .
as rick ripped the cloth into strips , he asked alex to find some water .
chapter 16 goodbye dreams , hello reality vespasia started to awaken when rick cleaned her side and back so he could dress the wound .
she whimpered as alex calmed her by gently stroking her face with a damp cloth .
you got lucky , girl , rick told her casually , the arrow went through your side , but mainly through skin .
she looked down as he attempted to clean the blood and nearly passed out again .
rick pressed a couple strips of cloth into the wound and asked christy to hold it there as he worked four long strips around her tiny waist and tied them to hold it in place .
kaylie was busy doing basically the same thing to his shoulder he had packed the wound and tied some cloth around his leg , but that dressing was already showing a deep red spot .
he ignored the pain as he focused on the girl , finally finishing , and tying her tunic back loosely so it wouldnt aggravate the dressing .
kaylie completed her first aid at about the same time , tying off several bandages on his upper arm and chest .
his injuries began throbbing but he thrust the pain aside , shifting vespasia so he could attempt to stand .
he struggled to his feet and asked the girls to help lift vespasia up so he could carry her .
he quickly realized he was in no shape to carry her a couple miles .
he sat her back down , grabbed the bowl of water and splashed it in her face .
the little roman girl spat and sputtered and angrily glared at rick , what was that for ?
she yelled .
alex and kaylie held the girl up on wobbly feet while rick slumped back down to the ground , half giggling at the girls face , half gritting his teeth in pain .
youll have to walk , i cant carry you any further , vespasia .
youve got a deep cut on your side , thats all .
vespasia slowly collected herself .
soon , the happy , smiling face of hers resurfaced when she realized her movement was not restricted much , if at all , and she barely felt the pain when she twisted or bent .
she cheerfully asked then , when do we go ?
do you think you can make it ?
alex asked her dad .
rick seriously considered the question .
he wasnt completely certain maybe it would be best to disappear and let vespasia get home on her own .
no , that wouldnt be right they were responsible for the girl .
he tried to remember just how far it was to her house , but they had been so busy talking on the way into rome and been so captivated by everything , he wasnt sure how far they had wandered .
he knew it would be a much different journey in his present condition .
he could not run either what if bergamiser would see them ?
rick realized he was very easily spotted , being much taller than most of the romans .
that was one detail he had never considered in two thousand years , humans had definitely changed considerably .
in 44 bc , a six foot tall person was extremely tall and very rare in 2007 ad , a seven foot tall man was even more common than six feet was then .
the captain , by far the largest man he had seen all day , wouldnt stand a chance in a head on collision with a high school field goal kicker in 2007 , he mused .
so yeah , he thought , he would be quite an easy target to spot .
all those thoughts assailed his mind at once .
well ?
alex asked again , impatiently .
i have to vespasia , can you lead us out of here without being seen ?
we could go through the sewers , she answered quickly .
a trio of protesting howls came from the girls .
you dont want to do that , you have open wounds , christy stated .
he agreed , no , probably not but how else ?
well , we can take alleys just about anywhere , but wed still have to go through the gate to leave unless we use the sewers .
she looked around to get her bearings and easily calculated their best route .
kaylie went once again and bought a blanket from a merchant .
the girls helped rick to his feet .
they wrapped the blanket around ricks body and over his head to form a hood .
he slouched over like an old man , hobbling along convincingly , thanks to his injuries .
they were sure the crazy man from the future would recognize vespasia and christy , so the two girls clung to ricks side , partly to steady him and partly to hide most of their faces in the folds of the blanket .
alex and kaylie did not believe bignose had seen them , so they tried to fit in with the other roman children .
they traveled awkwardly through a dozen or more alleys until they reached one just a few yards from the gate .
the trip was agonizingly slow , but they made it without seeing more than a few dozen people mostly homeless children who lived in these narrow , forgotten paths .
alex , always the mother hen , a trait she inherited from her father , couldnt pass by any of these orphans without giving them a coin or two and a portion of bread from one of the loaves she carried .
she had fashioned two skirts out of their leftover cloth for girls they met while resting .
she had found the two girls hiding behind piles of trash .
she also gave some small boys with distended stomachs part of their fruit .
these respites were welcome to rick and he admired the way alex cared for the homeless waifs .
the breaks were even more enjoyable to christy and vespasia , who grew tired and weary from the exertion of supporting rick , combined with the heat under the blanket .
it was nearing dark when they finally reached the last alleyway .
the girls rested while rick crept forward to look around .
he hobbled back to the girls and sat against a wall , beckoning them to climb under the blanket .
what is it ?
do you see him ?
vespasia asked .
no , i cant tell whos out there .
but its almost dark and i feel it would be much safer after the sun has set .
who was that man shooting at us , and why ?
asked vespasia .
thats bignose , christy answered angrily for him .
bergamiser ... bignose is the man who stole the necklace from us , rick explained further .
who was that woman ?
alex questioned next .
i guess she was probably just someone he paid to deliver the necklace to octavian .
so thats why you let her go ?
the little roman girl realized .
yes .
she probably didnt even know it was stolen she was just as innocent as you , dear .
it seems this bignose likes hurting innocent people , she said hotly .
are you still mad at me for stealing it back ?
she seemed to be asking for forgiveness .
yes , but i forgive you , and i think you were overly punished for it anyway , said rick , patting her side , near her wound .
it doesnt even hurt now !
she bragged .
perhaps you werent punished enough then !
he teased .
as night fell , the streets cleared .
rick went to check again and saw nobody but a couple drunken soldiers .
he slipped back and gathered the girls , half of whom had fallen asleep , and readied them to continue home to vespasias farm .
the rest of the trip was uneventful .
ricks girls were all afraid of the dark , but the native girl thought the quarter moon provided adequate illumination .
any light was a blessing for a girl who never knew electricity and was too poor to burn candles at night .
when they neared her home , a light was shining through the window .
mother must be worried about me , vespasia fretted .
she never wastes candles !
is it ok if i run ahead so she knows im all right ?
rick nodded , and then reconsidered , wait , he said , fumbling in his pouch for something .
the girls wide eyes watched curiously as he pulled something out but kept it hidden in his palm .
he reached out and hugged her .
thank you for all your help , vespasia .
we couldnt have done it without you .
she shoved back to look at ricks face , what ?
arent you coming with me ?
you have no place to stay tonight , you must stay with us !
you cant leave yet !
who will tell mother im not lying about the whole thing ?
i wanted you all to meet her , too !
she looked hurt .
rick fought back emotions , we have to go , honey ... here he opened his hand , showing her the enormous jewel .
her eyes widened , i cant take that !
its worth more than our entire farm !
we want you to have it .
keep it unless you absolutely need it , he suggested .
she hugged him tightly , refusing to let go for over a minute , then slowly released her hold and embraced the others just as fiercely .
alex wiped tears off her face as she handed the large basket to the girl , taking one of the smaller baskets out of it , here , this is for you .
i want this one to remember you by .
i will never forget you , vespasia .
you act like youre never going to see me again .
cant you at least come visit when you buy ... she suddenly stopped , comprehension dawning as she turned to rick , youre not buying a home in rome , are you ?
her tears flowing freely now .
she wiped them on her already wet tunic .
rick shook his head , probably not .
but if we do , i promise we will spend an entire day with you if you promise not to get in the way of any arrows aimed at me !
she giggled and reached her free arm around him for another hug .
youre a very strong girl , vespasia .
take care of yourself and your family , ok ?
he said , kissing the top of her head .
he then turned her around and nudged her gently toward her home .
bye !
she sputtered .
as the young girl walked away , rick pulled out his necklace , grabbed hold of the golden ball and started to huddle the girls close to him .
wait !
kaylie screamed suddenly .
we have to get back , kay .
im going to bleed to death eventually , rick joked .
this will just take a minute !
she said quickly and started running full speed toward vespasia .
all rick saw was a white blur and the back of her tunic trailing behind her like a comet tail .
they all heard her yelling at the girl to stop .
half a minute passed quite anxiously before they saw a dark form approaching them , jogging .
it was kaylie , now proudly wearing vespasias ruined , dingy tunic .
ok , we can go now , she said with a satisfied grin on her face .
everyone stared at her .
the tunic was ripped in more places than it had places , but she was happy as a pig in mud .
what ?
i needed it for history class !
she claimed .
guess ill have to wash it to get all the blood off .
do you think it will survive a washing ?
rick shrugged , im sure we can find a way to clean it .
but right now , we got ta go .
he squeezed the necklace and commanded , return !
what do you think theyre doing ?
jessica fretted after only fifteen seconds had passed .
theyll be fine , stop worrying , anna told her .
i wonder how long theyll be there , jessica continued .
one minute , abby sarcastically replied , i just hope they come back with all their fingers .
please remain outside the red area , ts voice suddenly announced .
rick could see abby , flanked by jessica and anna , fading into view .
when they fully emerged , the trio rushed over to them and immediately noticed the blood and bandages .
they skidded to a stop simultaneously .
what on earth happened to you ?
abby demanded .
im ok , but you should see the lion , rick joked .
anna and jessica fell for it and gasped , lion ! ?
alex filled them all in while she and kaylie helped rick to a seat at the table .
abby rushed to the lockers and located the medical kit while the girls went to change back into their normal clothes .
this can not continue now , rick .
if this bignose guy is going to try to kill you when you go near the crystal i just wont have it !
im not losing you now , mister !
abby decreed as she slowly unwrapped the bandage on ricks shoulder .
she winced when she saw the ragged bloody hole , and could barely keep her hands from shaking as she began to clean it with disinfectant .
youre lucky he didnt use poison , you fool !
youre not ever going back .
no way !
rick twitched in pain as she wiped and scrubbed with every harsh word .
we dont have to go back , he managed to state calmly through the abuse .
abby taped a thick wad of gauze to the puncture holes .
youre darn right youre not going back , we should turn this over to the government and let them send specialists to rick fought to his feet as she finished wrapping and clasped his hands around both her arms , pinning her with his eyes , you would suggest the government take over this machine ?
do you have any idea how badly those corrupt , greedy , power hungry jerks could screw up the whole universe if you gave them that kind of tool ?
she gently forced him back down and proceeded to work on his leg .
she suddenly realized the content of his earlier words what do you mean , you dont have to ?
rick grinned and pulled the crystal out of his pouch .
abby stared in amazement .
before she could comment , kaylie walked over , carrying her new prized tunic like a priceless artifact .
abby forgot her anger instantly .
what is that ?
she asked curiously .
kaylie proudly unfolded it and dangled it in front of her .
its a real authentic roman republic tunic that a real kid wore !
she proclaimed happily .
the very one our friend vespasia wore .
i traded her , she grinned triumphantly .
abbys archaeologist persona kicked in and ricks wound became unimportant to her .
she ran her hand over the tunic , wow , kaylie , this fabric is so coarse , it must have been so uncomfortable to wear .
it is .
its really itchy , kaylie explained , scratching for effect .
as alex joined them , abby turned to her , oh my god !
is that an actual basket made by roman hands ?
nothing like this has ever been found in any condition worth studying , these things just dont last two thousand years !
weve only had drawings or descriptions before now , but she nearly swooned as she ran her fingers around the basket , which was merely a bowl shaped reed woven creation , hardly remarkable .
she studied every detail of the two items for several minutes , listing the properties of each and explained popular theories , right and wrong .
alex explained that there were literally hundreds of different types of baskets and kaylie told her of all the various kinds of fabrics she had seen and felt .
eventually , abby remembered ricks leg and returned to treat his wound .
while she was working on him , the girls explained the farm , streets , markets and many foods and wares for sale .
they described how the people looked , how they acted , what they wore .
christy talked about octavian and his guards for ten minutes , offering minute details .
alex told of the homeless children she tried to help , and kaylie elaborated on their new friend , and how she recovered the crystal for them .
despite his injuries , rick was delighted the girls had absorbed so many amazing lessons from their trip .
and we got one of the four crystals , he reasoned to abby , it was well worth it .
we just need three more while a maniac tries to kill you !
we didnt expect him to be there .
but he was , and you know he could be setting a trap for you three more times .
i cant worry like that !
you only have to worry for one minute , he teased .
that minute can be an eternity though !
girls !
please talk some sense into your father !
the girls all remained steadfastly silent in support .
youre all mad !
theres no way i will let you go back !
she vowed .
you cant walk now , and your arm wont be healed for weeks , and you dont even know where the other three are !
ill be good to go in rick ?
ts voice interrupted .
yes , t ?
he rotated gingerly to face the time machine , as if it mattered .
i have another message now , she informed him .
all eyes turned to rick as he tried to hide his dread , lets have it an image of bergamiser showed .
oh , great , alex sighed .
well , youve found one crystal , bet you think youre smart .
but theres still three more , so thats only a start .
ill always be there , for the three you seek .
and to make things worse , you have just one week !
bergamisers eyes twisted with insanity as his evil laugh reverberated from the screen .
kaylie gasped , no !
she was terrified , pointing at the machine and shaking her head in disbelief .
rick wanted to comfort her , but couldnt manage to get up .
come here , kaylie , what is it ?
he asked , but she remained in place , eyes transfixed on the screen .
t , play the last ten seconds of that again , kaylie instructed .
bignose appeared again .
pause !
she yelled .
using her hand , she quickly zoomed out , moved the view around and zoomed back in .
there , in mid air , was an object he was tossing up and down in his right hand .
she zoomed in further and told t to rotate the image .
as realization dawned , alex put her hand over her mouth to cover a scream , christy actually howled , rick simply lowered his head into his hands .
kaylie turned , looking at them all , eyes wide with fear .
whats the deal ?
jessica asked , confused .
thats the jewel we gave to vespasia , kaylie cried .
we have to go back and help her !
alex demanded .
no !
rick said firmly .
he was immediately assaulted with accusing eyes .
well , im going to see what happened abby started .
no !
he yelled louder this time .
we cant go back .
bignose is trying to bait us into another trip to waste our time .
we only have a week , remember ?
he explained very coolly , calmly , betraying his own fears only by the way his hand clutched his wounded leg .
but cant we just see if shes ok ?
kaylie pleaded .
rick held up a hand to stop her .
she became enraged , crying , you dont even care about her !
youre as mean as bignose !
how could you ?
what if shes dying ?
or dead ?
you dont even care !
she threw the tunic in his face and stomped off to the bathroom .
nice going , dad .
alexs words cut through him .
kaylies tirade had already sliced him to pieces .
he held the tunic to his face for a moment , pressing it against his eyes to keep the tears from leaking out .
he could smell the girls own tears on it he could smell her on it .
he could see her smiling face saw her bouncing off down the street .
it took all his strength to get to his feet and walk to the bathroom door and knock at the partially open door .
im using the bathroom !
kaylie shot at him angrily .
no youre not , he said as he pushed the door open further .
she whirled and slammed the door , catching him off balance and knocking him back a few steps .
rick winced in pain , but fought back to swing the door open again .
kaylie slumped down on the toilet seat , sniffling , crossing her arms over her chest .
with anguish on his face , rick knelt down in front of her .
kay ?
go away !
kay , we will go back for her .
i swear on my aching leg that i shouldnt be putting weight on right now she looked up at him with wet , red eyes and restrained a slight giggle , you should be sitting , or lying down .
so youre not mad at me ?
he asked hopefully .
no , im just mad .
im sorry .
im not mad at you .
i know you care its just not fair .
not fair at all !
no , no its not .
but we will make it fair .
right now , we have billions of cute little girls to save , dont we ?
she shook her head yes .
rick worked his way to his feet , grinding the hurt away with his teeth , and held out his arms to pick her up .
no , ill help you , she said .
you cant carry me with that hurt leg , rick .
she stood and took as much of his weight as she could , helping him back to the table .
ok .
lets figure out what to do next now .
all of us .
all sitting around the table , rick asked , ok , lets make a plan , what do you all think ?
im fairly sure where the second crystal is , and we no , youre nuts !
we are doing nothing tonight but go home .
these girls have been up for over 24 hours and youre in no condition to do anything !
abby commanded , standing over him like an old fashioned schoolteacher , ready to whack his knuckles if he didnt obey .
well , he answered evenly , thats what were doing next , but we have to be thinking of what to do after bed .
im not moving from here until i eat and rest a bit , so im thinking steak , fries and a salad please , t. then were discussing salem , massachusetts .
anna picked up his meal for him .
thanks , hon , he smiled at her as he began awkwardly trying to cut his steak with one hand .
anna smiled and ordered her own meal and the others did the same .
so , whats in massachusetts ?
abby asked after the long silence .
well , it certainly sounds like a reference to the salem witch trials ... but i dont remember a whole lot about it , cant even remember exactly when it happened .
late seventeenth century , like 1692 , but thats all i know .
kaylie offered .
yeah , that sounds about right .
well have to do some research .
you got any books of that time ?
abby asked rick .
only a couple that mention it ... how the colonies and government were formed and became the united states .
ok , ill snoop through those while you search online , ok ?
sounds good to me .
what about us ?
alex asked , interrupting their exchange .
yeah , dont you remember how valuable we are ?
christy fluttered her eyelashes .
i think weve proven this is a bit too dangerous rick tried .
jessica rolled her eyes , oh , please , didnt you just get done telling us a fourteen year old girl recovered the first one ?
and you are certainly not in any condition to do anything but go to bed tonight , kaylie challenged .
ok , were going to have to discuss this tomorrow .
i know four of you are going to bed as soon as we get home , abby determined .
alex leaned on her sleepily , i like it when you call our house home .
it sounds good , doesnt it ?
abby looked at rick .
i think you should tell them , rick said with a smile .
tell them what ?
alex asked expectantly .
well , abby gulped , we your father and i decided youre finally moving in ?
youre finally moving in !
jessica leapt out of her seat and bounced around her , finally stopping long enough grab abby in a huge hug .
is it true ?
anna asked , holding onto her excitement until she was sure .
yes !
yes !
abby screamed and all the girls attacked her at once , nearly knocking her out of her seat , all bouncing and yelling .
rick just stabbed another piece of steak , dunked it in steak sauce and smiled at them as he stuck it in his mouth .
he chewed it a while as they continued to celebrate .
you girls arent happy about this , are you ?
he asked sarcastically .
dad !
was the only reply , from alex .
he knew what it meant .
they all finished eating .
how are we going to get out of here ?
abby asked rick as they watched the girls fascination with the bottomless pit a round , foot wide trash receptacle t provided for them .
it was clear and extended a couple feet from the floor .
the kids would put trash , dishes , food or anything else in it and watch it gradually disappear .
rick asked t how the device worked .
she replied , just like the food replicator , rick .
rick asked , you mean the opposite ?
no , rick , it simply changes the molecular state of the objects you place into it to air .
the replicator changes the molecular state of air to objects .
same process .
wow , ok. that makes sense .
that launched a barrage of questions that made rick forget abbys original inquiry .
where do you get your power , t ?
alex asked .
i get power from a thermal transducer tube implanted deep into the ground , alex .
christy , the little scientist , perked up , how does that work ?
it takes heat from a warmer layer of earth and transforms it into energy as it rises through the tube , then is replaced by cooler air which falls through the tube to the bottom and is heated again , christy .
wow , how much power does that produce ?
this particular unit is capable of producing 125 megawatts per hour , christy .
how were the tunnels dug , t ?
abby asked curiously .
they were not dug , abby , they were created using a tool from the 2lst millennium called a force repulsor , t explained .
how does that work ?
little einstein questioned .
it uses a force field to repel the earth in whatever direction desired , christy , compressing the stone and dirt into a composite stronger than steel , and which never corrodes .
whoa !
rick commented .
thats neat !
alex added .
what about the natural cave ?
i have a hard time believing it formed in a spiral without some help , abby asked further .
a well founded suspicion , abby that cave was also created with a repulsor .
they can be programmed to create any shape .
why would they make it look natural , and put supports in it ?
youd have to ask them that , abby , i can only speculate .
t , a serious kaylie started , is vespasia still alive ?
before rick could stop her , t answered , that is a relative question , kaylie .
she certainly isnt alive this day , but i need a specific date to answer that to your satisfaction .
no !
do not even try to ask again , kaylie we are better off assuming shes ok , rick instructed .
cant we just no !
kaylie , lets get back to the most important problems now like how are we getting out of here ?
abby intruded .
the same way we originally planned .
ill swim out first and pull anyone out who cant make it on their own .
i think everyone should easily be able use the rope to get back , as long as they dont panic , rick said as he stared pointedly at anna .
i can do it !
no problem at all .
i just got scared coming down because i didnt know the way .
really !
she defended herself .
will you be able to make it , daddy ?
a concerned jessica asked .
of course , honey , swimming will be much easier than walking , im sure .
the rope will make it simple too .
you girls go get ready so you can take the clothes why dont i take them , dad ?
you know im almost as strong a swimmer as you , alex offered helpfully .
rick nodded his approval .
ill go change while you seal up all the stuff , he said as he realized he was still wearing a leather tunic and was rather uncomfortable in it .
rick limped out of the bathroom and saw all six pairs of eyes impatiently waiting for him .
sorry , it wasnt easy getting that thing off inside that small box with one arm , he said , slightly embarrassed .
here , alex , can you hang this in a locker for me ?
anna was closer and grabbed it .
i will , she said .
thanks .
christy and jessica were already playing in the water , running down the ramp as fast as they could until the weight of the water tripped them , and then they ran back out and repeated .
daddy , when are you gon na get that other hide a bed for my room so christy can sleep in there with me ?
jessica asked .
i have one , jess .
when i move my stuff down here , its yours , abby told her .
why dont you just take all the clothes off of your bed so she can sleep there , pigpen ?
then youd have room for three more people !
anna teased .
rick agreed .
that sounds like a good thing for you to do when we get home , he told jessica .
she splashed him , i thought we had more important things to do right now ?
she whined .
youre lucky im injured or id dunk you mercilessly , brat , he warned as he waded into the water .
christy got above him on the ramp and jumped onto his back .
how are you going to pull us out if your arm hurts , rick ?
rick calmly lowered himself into the water until he submerged them both .
he patiently sat on the bottom until she was forced to come up for air .
he then surfaced , im fine .
id break both my arms to save one of you , dont you worry a bit about that .
but , lets see who can make it back out with no help at all , ok ?
ooh !
i can make it !
i can !
me too !
they all volunteered to go first .
right .
well see .
just remember ill be able see you once you turn the corner , and abby can see you until then .
if you cant make it , just signal one of us and hold onto the rope and ill pull you out or abby will pull you back .
alex interrupted , you should leave me back here instead , dad .
im the best swimmer and im trained in lifesaving .
i was thinking of abby since shes an adult , but i think youre right youd be a better choice .
thanks for the suggestion .
abby seemed relieved , feeling clueless about how to save someone in water .
ok , if thats all everyone gave a thumbs up .
he took a deep breath and submerged , pulling the rope until he was on the other side , anchored at the opening .
one by one , they all popped to the surface , with alex bringing up the rear , pulling the bag behind her .
rick was relieved they all made it under their own power and didnt require any assistance .
his energy was fading quickly and he wasnt sure how much longer he would last .
they quickly dried off and dressed .
it was definitely cooler in the grotto and rick was starting to shiver uncontrollably .
the trip back to the van took four times as long , nearly ninety minutes , because they had to stop several times for rick to rest .
the girls and abby took turns supporting him .
when they finally arrived at the van , rick sprawled across the back seat while the girls loaded everything .
abby drove them home .
help me downstairs , rick ordered when they arrived .
move the coffee table and unfold the hide a bed .
bring down some sheets , pillows , and blankets well take care of it all , anna said , volunteering her cousin , jessica .
the rest of you are probably tired thats sweet of you abby praised .
speak for yourself !
jessica complained .
anna grabbed her by the arm and dragged her into the house as abby and alex aided rick .
just take me to the computer , please .
you really need to go to bed , rick , youre exhausted please , he pleaded .
she thought a moment , but ultimately gave in and helped him to his chair .
you know you can do this tomorrow , she still insisted .
i wont be able to sleep right now , abby .
really , im ok .
the ride home gave me a chance to rest and recover some strength .
anna and jessica were beginning to prepare the bed each had an armload of linens .
kaylie , christy and alex came down , like zombies , to say goodnight .
night , dad , alex said sleepily , as she gave a hug and a quick kiss .
christy and kaylie did the same .
good night ?
its only 8 30 !
he teased .
they each looked at him as if he were growing bunny rabbit ears .
seriously though , girls , you all smell like sweaty street bums , you need to take a shower they groaned in unison .
sorry girls , you still have school tomorrow the trio trudged upstairs to the showers .
oh , and girls ?
alex turned as the other two staggered on .
he smiled , sorry .
you have to get jess and anna up tomorrow , too .
i wont be able to .
alex nodded assent , too tired to speak .
thank you , alex .
dont fall asleep in the shower , ok ?
anna and jessica were laying on the pull out bed twenty minutes later , watching a movie , when abby came down the stairs .
i put everything away , where are the other girls ?
thanks so much .
i sent them to the showers .
she wandered back over to ricks bookshelves and studied them a moment , rick pointed out the two books he believed she wanted and she plucked them from the shelf and strolled back over .
im going to sit and read this , but you really need to rest , rick , she suggested .
i will in a minute , soon as i finish reading this .
abby looked at the screen , aah , youve already found it all ?
yeah , i think so .
it appears that the first of four hangings was on june 10 , 1692 , when a lone woman , bridget bishop , was hanged at gallows hill .
but , he looked up at her in confusion .
what ?
well , it says that both eleven year old abigail williams and nine year old elizabeth perkins had shown signs of being bewitched on january 20 , but nothing states which was first .
bridget bishop , the first to hang , was not even the one accused of bewitching the first two girls they had accused a servant named tituba .
sarah good and sarah osbourne were also accused , but of those three , only sarah good was hanged on july 19 .
none of it makes sense with the riddle .
i cant find anything about tituba or sarah osbourne , but bridget bishop had nothing to do with any of the first four girls mentioned to have been afflicted .
i can assume tituba was simply not hanged because she confessed the only way to escape hanging but i cant make the connection .
the phrase , although the court thought , must mean she was tried and convicted , doesnt that make sense to you ?
abby stared blankly at him .
i think maybe were both tired , you just confused the heck out of me too .
lets print it all out , you go lay down and ill sit on the bed beside you and read it all .
sound good ?
she didnt appear capable of accepting any answer but yes , so rick agreed , ok , but can you check on the girls theyre too quiet .
i can make it to the bed on my own .
he printed out all the information he had found , and grabbed it as abby headed to check on the kids .
rick limped and hopped toward the couch , dropped the printouts on the bed , and nudged anna to move over so he could lie down while he studied the information .
abby called down the stairs , the girls are already in bed and sound asleep , so im gon na take a quick shower .
that was the last sound rick heard that night before falling into a much needed , deep sleep .
when abby came downstairs she smiled as she gathered the pages scattered across ricks chest .
settling into one of the recliners , she started reading the first few pages .
the infamous witch hunts of salem , massachusetts a dark and troubled era in our countrys history a time of insanity .
why were they being led into this quagmire of madness ?
now available chronicles of time book 2 part iii injustice in salem chapter 17 kids do sneaky things rick struggled from the depths of a dream .
in his minds eye he could still see the infectious smile of that adorable , precocious roman girl , vespasia .
or was it a dream at all ?
as he felt the surreal slipping away to consciousness , he realized it wasnt just a fantasy .
his older daughter , alex , really had found an obscure and intriguing artifact .
his younger daughter , jessica , really did decode its clues with her own unique brand of curiosity .
most startling of all his revelations was that it really had turned out to be the key to a time machine .
they had actually located the machine , unlocked its mystery , and uncovered an evil plot to destroy the world .
they were given a riddle to solve if they wanted to try to stop the process .
they had deciphered the first part of the riddle and recovered one of the four crystals which would enable them to stop this disastrous event .
they had traveled back to ancient rome and met vespasia , who helped them find the missing piece .
along for the ride had been alexs soccer loving friend kaylie , and gymnastics obsessed christy .
they had been mesmerized by the beautiful , rolling landscape of the time , taken in by the sights and sounds of the bustling city of rome , and captivated by the young girl they now considered family .
each had performed an important part in the quest for the first piece of the puzzle .
unfortunately bergamiser better known as bignose the mastermind behind the plot , had tracked them to rome and they narrowly escaped with their lives .
rick sported two nasty crossbow wounds from the encounter , and they feared the vile bergamiser now held their new friend captive .
when they discovered vespasia could be in peril , it had taken a toll on them .
they had been given only a week to complete the tasks necessary to restore the missing time from the time machine , and with his injuries , rick feared they would have no chance to finish it .
or save the girl .
now available chronicles of time book 3 chapter 29 can you be born before youre born ?
as jessica opened the kitchen door , a man in shorts carrying a large knife filled the doorway .
christy and jessica both shrieked .
so did you get the crystal ?
rick asked calmly .
both girls flushed with recognition and quit screaming , then noticed he held a melon in the other hand , which he was cutting up for a fruit tray for breakfast .
are you gon na beat us ?
jessica questioned .
that wouldnt be fair , would it ?
rick asked .
christy said , nope !
well , im not feeling particularly fair at the moment , he waved the knife around menacingly .
they both dashed past him toward the stairs , screeching again , this time in mock panic .
get back here !
he roared .
the girls stopped and moped back to him .
he held out his hand and jessica deposited the crystal in it .
the cube too , he added , and christy pulled it out of the bag , setting it on the counter .
go put away your things and get back here .
youre fixing breakfast .
they whined and complained about being tired , but did as they were told .
anna heard ricks yell and emerged from her room just as the other girls tromped up the stairs .
she walked over to rick and hugged him .
i might as well help .
you should be resting , she pointed to a chair .
rick hobbled to the table , grabbing the cube on the way .
he opened it and started watching jessica and christys adventure .
the rest of the clan eventually joined them and all listened to the tale .
everyone was shocked at the mere descriptions jessica urged them all not to watch it .
after breakfast rick insisted the three girls in andersons class wear a necklace all day .
oddly though , mr. anderson made no strange moves , barely acknowledging the girls .
rick spent all day reading up on the birth of jesus until it drove him mad and he opted to work on his video game instead .
abby was shopping for supplies for her upcoming expedition and didnt come home until it was almost time to get jessica from school .
it seems nobody truly knows when jesus was born , he said with a sigh .
some say december 25 , year 0 , of course , but they are in the extreme minority .
it ranges from 8 bc to anywhere in the next twelve years .
some say he was born in jerusalem , some in jericho , some in nazareth , some even say mary wasnt his mother !
how can anyone claim to be sure , much less righteous , and proclaim with such certainty something so incredibly vague ?
he threw his hands up in frustration .
ill ask some of my friends tonight to see if they know anyone who knows something other books by j c allen m.o.d .
check out the youtube video trailer http www.youtube.com watch ? v wnk8ybbkloo prologue tuesday , march 10 , 7 30 am weve got him this time , said special agent in charge sheelia tanner of the fbi .
she sat in the passenger seat of a plain blue sedan belonging to her partner , special agent scott carver .
scott was a fit , trim , athletically built man with short blond hair , blue eyes , and chiseled features .
he was average height and had a generally serious , but approachable look .
sheelia was only slightly shorter , still quite tall for a woman , also very fit but sleekly built like a dancer .
her father and mother were of mixed heritage , including black , white and asian , and she seemed to draw all her features out of a hat from them , including a deep , dark complexion , big round eyes , dainty nose and mouth , and thin sharp eyebrows which angled sharply inward .
her hair was straight , silky and jet black , her eyes dark as midnight .
scott and sheelia were just arriving at the scene where two dozen agents awaited in the shadows to execute a search warrant .
i hope so , scott answered , lacking confidence .
sheelia reached up to her ear subconsciously , obviously listening to her earplug .
theyre all in place , awaiting orders , she told her partner .
she then rifled through some papers .
tell them well be there in two minutes .
i want to park a bit away instead of pulling up to the house , scott said .
she relayed the message .
tension enveloped the vehicle .
this was their seventh attempt to nab the elusive and enigmatic m.o.d .
nobody yet knew who or what m.o.d .
was or what it stood for .
they did know , however , that m.o.d .
was wanted for several counts of every known form of identity theft , computer crimes , and probably several other crimes not even thought of yet .
in each of these recent raids , he was positively traced to some unsuspecting location in vero beach , florida , where sheelia and scott lived .
every time , the evidence turned out to be some ruse or false trail m.o.d .
had purposely led them down .
he made a mistake this time , scott said .
it could be a she , you know , sheelia reminded him , always sticking up for women around the world , even criminals .
yeah , right .
sorry , but this is a man , sheelia , im certain .
and he made a mistake .
he got greedy he went for too much money and was tracked in real time when the computer flagged the transaction .
usually , its not found for hours , even days , and we have to sift through logs of katherine himmel , sheelia interrupted .
huh ?
the owner of the house were going to is a miss katherine himmel , 37 , unmarried , lives alone .
she fits the profile , scott four years as a programmer for the dod , fired for insubordination last september .
that alone gives her the motive and skills to deliberately mess with the government like everyone thus far , scott sighed .
are you suggesting this ones a setup as well ?
i thought you said this one was it , she challenged .
a grim look crossed his face .
youre right , its not her .
its a man i know it .
she rolled her eyes .
listen , shee , this guy is making a statement of some kind .
a defiant statement .
in all my years , ive never heard of a woman being so bold for so long .
sorry to punch you in the feminism , but women just dont behave this way .
all your years ?
do i need to remind you that youve only been here three years and ive been here fourteen ?
she shot back with a smirk .
so we should just call off the search war of course not , we have to execute the warrant .
im just saying we shouldnt be so harsh on the suspect this time .
maybe , since shes a woman , she was smart enough to know wed never suspect her to be a woman , sheelia predicted ominously .
give it up , gloria steinem , scott teased as he pulled to the curb a few houses from the suspects and shut off his car .
here we are , he said rather tensely .
want to call it off now ?
she joked .
scott grinned , then got out , talking into his microphone , is anyone inside ?
weve seen no movement , no car in the driveway .
we have no reason to suspect anyone inside there are no lights on and the mail is five days old , an agent responded .
lets knock then , sheelia decided , holding up the warrant .
they walked down a narrow sidewalk to the house , which had a half circle driveway and a fence all the way around , encompassing all but the front entryway .
scott admired the house as they approached .
situated in an older neighborhood of stucco walled and tiled roof homes typical of the building style of a few decades past , the concrete arches and warm colors left no doubt they were in the tropics .
even the pavement reinforced that feeling , with crushed shells imbedded in the surface instead of gravel .
he marveled at the carefully groomed lawn and shrubbery , imagining the time it must take to maintain the manicured look .
each blade of the thick , lush st. augustine grass appeared to have been trimmed individually with manicure scissors to the exact same height , and all were a uniformly dark green .
the edging along the walk and driveway seemed to have been accomplished with the precision of a scalpel .
the plants and hedges had been placed with an eye for beauty and symmetry .
at this point in his life he was glad he lived in a condo and didnt have to worry about taking care of the grounds , but wondered what it would be like to be responsible for such a place .
sheelia rang the doorbell as a dozen agents stood behind her with guns drawn and aimed at the ground .
they waited several tense seconds before she rang again and added several loud pounds on the large , wooden double doors .
at the same time , agents approached the back entrance , by the pool .
nobodys home , she called to them .
check the doors and windows .
a few seconds later , an agent announced the back door was unlocked .
she ordered the rear team to enter and secure the area , and then let them in the front door .
two minutes later , the front door opened and a beefy agent smiled at her , come on in , maam , but i dont think youll like what you see .
this has innocent victim written all over it , he said , standing aside .
sheelia strode in and scott closely followed , holstering his weapon .
the agent led them directly to the left , through a wide arch and into the living room where a desk sat with a computer on it .
the computer is on , but the monitor is off .
we didnt want to disturb it , said an agent who stood by the desk as they entered .
turn it on , she ordered .
but , it could contaminate the he started to protest .
all the computers so far were on and none of them were rigged to destroy any data .
i want to see whats on the screen , she told him .
with a shrug he said , very well , youre the boss .
then , with a latex gloved finger , he reached out and pushed the power button on the monitor .
it flashed and faded on .
in bright , red letters , taking the entire screen , read m.o.d .
sheelia snapped on a glove and moved the mouse .
as she had expected , a message popped up , kathy is in the bahamas she has been since friday .
you should do your homework , sheelia .
i thought you would like it to be a woman this time , though .
nice touch , eh ?
ill have an exclusive interview on abc news tonight at 11 35 .
you might want to watch .
she stared at the message , reading it twice , her face knotting up with each word , then angrily she ordered the team to unhook the computer and seize it as evidence .
lets go , scott , she added in a huff , and stormed out .
other books by j c allen novel ideas check out the youtube video book trailer at http www.youtube.com watch ? v l8gf1ovyzai prologue january 1 , 2040 jordan was nervous .
he was about to make the biggest announcement of his career to him anyway .
he sighed deeply , waiting for his latest understudy , samantha white , to begin the report .
today , on his seventieth birthday , world renowned author , forrest reed , has announced in a statement issued by his agent , philip conrad , that he is releasing his final novel , ms. white read from the teleprompter with an appropriately despondent tone , which actually appeared to be fairly genuine .
she was situated in front of a breaking news logo which rotated slowly , while dozens of books swirled in the background , emerging from the blackness as if bubbling up from the bottom of a stew pot .
forrest reeds familiar covers adorned the front of each book and more surfaced endlessly .
she continued to read the statement .
it is with a heavy heart that i am forced to inform you that mr. reed has decided to hang up his vocal processor and enjoy the remainder of his life at his newly completed home at an undisclosed location .
he has requested everyone respect his decision to retire , and refrain from future contact .
as samantha finished her script , the camera switched focus to jordan .
wow , samantha , he soberly intoned , shaking his head in disbelief .
jordan , a legend in the business , had been spinning the news from the same desk since the inception of the interactive 3d holo tv broadcast .
now in his sixties , he was by far the oldest anchor still on hv .
samantha white was the newest face of the show , which seemed to cycle new , young , attractive women into jordans evening news show annually .
jordan was obviously rocked by the news , but managed to finish his comment with , hes the last of a dying breed .
yes , jordan , he is .
with 150 novels reaching number one on the bestseller list over the past thirty years , he has consistently released an average of five books per year , when nobody else seemed to be writing anything .
thats going to cause a severe void in the ever declining book market .
and movie market as well , jordan added .
seventy two of his books have been made into films .
his movies have grossed 48.9 billion in box office sales and have sold a staggering 3.4 billion copies in the aftermarket .
he is reportedly worth an incredible two hundred billion dollars definitely one of the worlds richest men .
as he spoke , the statistics appeared in colorful displays all around the two reporters .
how did he become so popular ?
samantha asked the experienced newsman .
well , samantha , its really quite simple .
he was the only person out there who could come up with interesting , unique ideas .
what do you mean ?
she pursued , genuinely intrigued .
in 2010 , when he began writing , the well seemed dry .
people were growing tired of the cookie cutter novels the generic , molded , scripted repeats of previous successes .
forrest reed came along and made people disengage their auto pilot minds from the internet and immerse themselves into his imagination .
he often criticized the entertainment industries of being so cold and calculating with their formulas for success , and challenged them all .
the industry seemed unable to produce anything new .
old movies were recycled , mainly because nobody would chance anything different .
forrest reed blasted the school systems and parents for not pushing young minds to be creative , to solve problems , to think other than in a linear fashion , but kids were being increasingly left plugged in and tuned out .
they had mastered the world of digital communication , but had lost the ability to communicate with each other .
all the languages of the world were degrading into a universal , anachronistic , lazy impersonal , and emotionless waste of space according to reed .
he called the entire generation screenagers , and predicted they would reach new lows never previously thought possible .
he said his generation strove for mediocrity , while this one strove for nothing .
in 2015 , twelve of the top hundred songs were remakes of old songs .
he predicted that by 2035 , more than 95 of a hundred would be recreations .
a quick check of the numbers he deftly manipulated the area around him to show the statistics , reveals that , indeed , reed was right .
ninety seven of the top hundred songs in 2035 were remakes .
amazing , samantha commented .
why cant anyone create something fresh and new ?
reed believed the minds of children were polluted with the ideas forced onto them by our education system .
he thought parents lacked the ability to inspire their children because of their own poor levels of education , causing each generation to become worse , compounded by the previous mistakes .
in his record breaking non fiction book titled , a lost art thinking , he details personal beliefs on the state of creativity in the world and he appears to be right about all of the predictions he made .
samantha sighed heavily .
with forrest reed gone , and this show the only remaining source of creative commentary , what will happen ?
jordan shook his head sadly .
i suspect the book industry will finally die off and the sole source of our entertainment will degrade into twentieth century commercial jingles , remakes of 80s movies , unreal so called reality shows , ridiculous sitcoms and a continual stream of omg , wtf and wgaf .
it was obvious he found this scenario rather revolting .
jordan had always prided himself in being a student of reeds , concurring with the famous author in nearly every sad detail of the pathetic state of the planet .
he really didnt want to think of the world that would rise from lost creativity and originality .
it seemed everyone thought being like everyone else was a good thing the biggest problem jordan and forrest saw with that was the population all met at the bottom , not the top .
he and reed appeared to be the last two dinosaurs that had broken away from that path .
the show continued with several old clips of reed preaching his gospel to the masses of mush minds , most of whom just didnt get it .
jordan and samantha set out several charts which the hv users could peruse at their leisure .
one showed that forrest reeds novels outsold the rest of the market three to one in the last year .
his last two movies grossed 3.8 billion , more than the total of all other movies for the previous four years .
jordan finished his broadcast by pleading , forrest , if you can hear me , we really need you .
please dont leave us .
his somber mood didnt abate after they signed off he was really crushed .
concerned , samantha asked , ygbok ?
jordan stared a hole into her as if she were from another planet .
sorry .
are you going to be ok ?
it was a rule of his show not to use acronyms , one that he still tried to enforce off the air .
no , i think ill go read his last book , then just shoot myself , he answered drily .
now she regarded him as the alien .
good luck with that , she responded .
he chuckled .
and reed says theres no hope for this generation .
but you see ?
you are capable of independent thought even humor !
that was really funny , sam , he said sarcastically .
i was serious , she informed him with a straight face .
he laughed harder .
about the author born and raised in the charleston , wv area , this young single father started writing when unimaginable circumstances thrust him into a situation beyond his control .
as a way to stay connected to his beloved daughters , he began writing stories to entertain them first a fantastical , magical adventure , the edge of knight series .
what started as entertainment for his daughters evolved into a coping mechanism to maintain his sanity as he waged a monumental battle against injustice .
the battle continues , and as his daughters have grown into teenagers , the stories have changed to more mature fiction .
please visit our website at http jcallenbooks.weebly.com follow us on twitter jcallenbooks to america and back novel by mordechai landsberg copyright 2012 by mordechai landsberg smashwords edition part 1 chapter 1 for the expected emigration of his family from israel to america , solomon kaplasky hired a private english teacher .
his wife ramona and his son nahumik agreed to learn the language together .
to solomon himself english was quite familiar , as he had taken courses in berlitz a few years before .
the teacher was the retired chief clerk of the post office in the small israeli town , where they were living .
his name was mr. traub , and he began to visit kaplanskys flat in the evenings and study with the mother and son reader 1 elemenatry book .
he also bought for them the book english through pictures washington square publishing which had been then a best seller .
the dilligent boy nahumik soon discovered , that it would not be too difficult for him to remember by heart the most necessary elementary words .
his mother , ramona , joined him in those lessons .
she advanced better than him , knowing some english before , having had taken a course in prague university , more than ten years beforeafter six months of study , ramona had become impatient to remain in any more in israel .
so she told to her husband solomon , that whatever they had learned till than had been enough it was time to sail to the land of unlimited possibilities , united staes .
less than a year had passed since israel war of independence .
the feet of the photographer , his wife and two sons nahumik and danny , were uprooted from the streets of their town and from the land of israel .
on board the ship that took the family abroad only the boy nahumik really hated the sudden change his soul and in his surrounding .
but he had known that nothing could be done against the bitter reality .
better he should try to forget , better look at the blue foaming sea and look curiously at the passengers and discern the sailors many types of efforts .
solomon kaplansky had an acquaintant in u.s. , who became for him like his ships anchor .
the man was an artist painter and theater set manager , who had emigrated from israel to los angeles a few years before , and became a quite known in the studios .
in those days it was a common phenomenon , that children and elders would write to the studios with which actors and actresses and other professionals had been connected to and public relations offices were trying to promote their films and artists careers as well they would mail to fans and films lovers all over the world autographs and even letters of thanks , originally handwritten by the worshipped artists .
the cinema newspapers and magazines were used to publish the addresses of studios , and sometimes list the also the names of the most important stuff members of movie productions at that particular time ... maybe by that way solomon kaplansky discovered the studio address , where his friend was employed .
he wrote to theodor farbstein so nahumik remembered years afterwards a letter of help request , and in good english .
in that he was helped by the municipalitys architect reu el hoffman , who was living not far away .
this man had been working long years with the the british authorities in palestine , and was familiar with five languages in addition to hebrew he spoke french , english , russian and yiddish .
he liked the idea of people who would love to leave israel , for ideological as well as personal reasons he hated wars , like solomon himself .
in his talks with the phoptographer he would sneer , mocking about the new reality in the state of israel of that time receiving a million of immigrants , refugees from eastern europe and the arab countries would cause a destruction of the economical and social life here .
had i a gun , he would declare to solomon , i would have killed the irresponsible hazrdous zionist leaders here solomon wrote to his friend farbstein in la about his sons elkano death in the war .
he described the very hard impact of the disaster on him , that had brought him a heart failure .
now having recoverd he continued he would simply like to get out and free himself and his family from bearing the dark atmosphere , from an everlasting recall of his bereavement in that cursed land .
he should simply try to forget his sad past in the so called jewish land .
.
.then he explained his decision to study the future of professional photographing envisaged in the art of movies .
and as he , solomon , was having a long experience in regular conventional photography , he would succeed there by hard studying .
in short , he will be thankful if farbstein could be helpful to him at least in the first days , showing him where to lay on his own head , and his family members heads as well .
farbstein found for kaplanskys family a modest apartment in an old suburb , not far from the place that he had been dwelling , close to hollywood .
we dont know if it had been close to primrose avenue maybe once nahumik mentioned that name or another place , maybe near franklin avenue of today .
the actor himself guided solomon where he could find a course for film photographing , even for film production it had been opened then , and was not expensive .
the english that kaplansky had studied in palestine , at time of the british mandate , was not enough for understanding thoroughly all the lectures and practices in the said course .
but solomon understood the main points , as he told ramona .
he began to feel that he would be able to stand sound on the ground in the new country , with its unlimited possibilities .
he was so satisfied of himself toward the end of the course , that he decided that it had been enough to study he finished the course but had not received a diplom or certificate .
he should open a photography store business , and make a living for his family .
the cinematic big dream may be postponed , for the time being at that time solomon found an immigration agent , who advised him that he should hold a certain certificate in order to maintain a resident status otherwise he might be removed out of united states .
nahumik was still a boy then , eleven years old .
but when he became a teenager he knew that his parents had already held such certificates they were allowed to work in their store without fear .
he assumed that as an expert in faking all kinds of ducuments it was not difficult for solomon to organize something regarding that document it has been called later the green card .
nahumiks move to american school daily life was not easy at all .
he could not adapt nor accommodate himself swiftly to the change in thye new surrounding , having arrived from an israeli school , in which he studied till then to a foreign countrys suburban elementary school .
his emotional and mental big trouble as he remembered it years after all had happened came out mainly from his un forgiving , pedant and narrrow minded english teacher .
she seemed to ignore his foreign origin and frequently mocked at his strange dialect and mumblings , while he would search what english words to use , while asked to answer a question that she had raised in class .
his humiliation was obvious to all the pupils present in the class .
his english vocabulary was really very dull .
while the other pupils were reading a story very quickly , and proved a well understanding some of mark twains book , nahumik could hardly understand its plot .
when he was requested by his teacher to describe huckleberry fins looking , for example , he could hardly say the boy pants were and then stopped talking .
his teacher turned to another boy , and after he said hucks pants were torn , and another said he was shabby dressed , the cruel teacher chuckled , and rebuked the new comer , nahumik .
she declared i have to talk with your mother about your poor knowledge of our language .
not only in speaking , but regarding every aspect of words and grammer all in all no pupil in the class understood the precise meaning of aspect but sometime teachers talk in order to make his sentences complicated , thought nahumik , by that showing their deeep knowledge and superiority over us , the children .
on the first parents winter meeting evening with the educating teacher , ramona heard mrs. betty smartpool saying this pupil has a very poor oral language .
if he continues to disregard his spelling mistakes and not pay attention to what each word means he will fail in his year end exams .
hell get the lowest grade i had ever given a pupil in my career .
you must understand , mrs. raimonda what all that means if the boy fails in learning the states language , he is doomed do you follow up his homework preparation ?
it seems to me that he does not dedicate himself to a solemn learning of our basic words and their meaning .
and even the form of the english letters that he writes is terrible they seem like greek to me sorry , said ramona , i have an infant at home , nahumiks brother .
she revealed to the teacher that she and her family had been used to write hebrew , not greek .
and you can understand , she continued , that i cant control nahum , my son but im sure that he has enough brain in head , i know him .
he will close the gap , that derives from our being new immigrants .
so , i ask you please be considerate to behave patiently and tolerantly to him dear reader , dont wonder about the form of such a seemingly rich idiom , that ramona had put into her sentence .
she had prepared the expressive words before , using a vucabulary , knowing she would use them in her argue with the teacher .
well , ill be patient , murmured the teacher .
she was a sixty years old witch , her skin folded and callused face showing that , in addition to her grey hair and beetroot color lipstick and the short skirt she was wearing , that emphasized the twisting veins and of her legs could not hide her old age either .
my pupil nahumik has to be assisted by an external power , the teacher added a vague hint , so that his end year grade will be improved .
otherwise what do you mean by that ?
asked ramona , understanding that her adversary was trying to load on her back an expensive cost , for hiring a he or she private teacher for nahumik .
there is a friend of mine , said the teacher , mrs. smartpool , without reddening , her name is doris fox , ill talk to her about you son .
she will assist him in homework for a relatively poor amount .
i rely on her ability to help and make the kid advance .
so it happened that the woman teachers friend became nahumiks private english teacher for three months .
she had a simple teaching method she ordered him to repeat words by heart and write them properly in his special copybook , and in innocent writing as that was called in those days , which means every letter of a word in its right place , and every tail or head of f or t etc .
in its due shape and its height in the copybooks line .
at the end of the fiorst year of his english private study , nahumik got the recommendation of his priv as he shortly called her , that he can pass and step to the elementary upper class .
she remarked , while talking to the english regular teacher , that nahum kaplansky would better of course continue study with her on the following yeartoo but at that time the kaplnsky family moved to another area , and nahumik began to join a new school .
in that school he was lucky to have a very sympathetic male teacher for english , who would never make a pupil fail , never would force him to attend the same class for two years .
so even a failing pupil like our nahumik succeeded to climb to the next class , the sixth elementary class .
simply , this teacher would say , we have to let everyone to reach the sixth very soon , get rid of him in this point , and forget him .
its a vanity and unjust to let a pupil remain in the last class of elementary .
whats the benefit of that ?
but nahumiks troubles did not end with that .
while he entered the first class of secondary school , he met a new pedant and strict she teacher who wished to make his life short as he complained to his mother .
so , ramona went heavy hearted to the first parents meeting , and teacher miss betty middletown announced , that she would recommend to ban the boy from passing to the second class next .
he fails and refails in all the exams , and his homework is very poor too .
i pity his future , madam .
therefore i speak so bluntly .
your son nahum mixes singular with plural , the tense he uses in his sentences is always the present one , his vocabulary is of a five years kid , and the compositions that he writes are very poor , as each one includes only two sentences , and thats rare too !
i understand said ramona , who had remembered the previous teacher , in the elementary school , i presume that you suggest to me that ill hire for him a private she teacher , like we had done last year ?
i propose a male teacher for the boy , madam .
i recommend of mr. jack taubhe is an ex movies actor , here is his business card .
he had acted mainly in the films of wilder and huston and cecil de mill , performing as an outstanding , impressive ststist ... hes really also an excellant english teacher , and im sure he would give your son a serious push in our language .
even if the is a stubborn refuser , as we would say .
jack is both a comical and tragic actor , so the kid will be entertained , and that will improve his wish and dedication to his language study .
well , i am sure that your son will understand that his future depends on that , and will collaborate .
he already owns a basic treasure of knowledge , so why lose it ? ... given in jacks hands his success is ensured and undoubted , rely on my words ...
your dear kid is called nahum a biblical nice name , isnt it ?
ramona immediately hired the famous teacher jack , who was a nice elder male of seventy at that time , and would arrive in nahumiks home two afternoons a week at six p.m ... first of all , jack wisely demanded from his pupil to write only short sentences .
for summarizig and describing a storys character , he said to his pupil , you have to find and put on paper his main features , physical , spiritual and habitual so to say .
in class you would learn adapted stories of american authors , that had been found fit for teenagersso , no big problem , continued jack , youll have to learn by heart some important sentences that i will dictate to you about each story .
in case of a cursed exam , by which your teacher would surprise you from time to time youll find the proper sentences and insert them as answers to the questionaire .
it would be like fixing an iron nail into a soft wooden board .
see what i mean ?
okey ?
will such a system enable me at least a grade mark pass , asked weary and worried nahumik .
of course , therefore im here to guide you what and how to prepare .
dont fear to insert even a sentence that you surely know to have a weak connection to the correct , precise and aspired answer the system worked .
nahumik knew vaguely what to write about hamlet and about the characters of adapted american stories , that his class had studied , jack london and o henry and bennet were among them but he passed the exams .
at that period nahumik discovered a romantic connection between his morning woman teacher and his afternoon private male teacher jack .
one day he looked outside of his rooms window , and saw how miss betty middletown was arriving slowly towards his house and waiting for jack near an avenue tree .
then the two sweethearts were walking side by side .
he discerned that they were cautious not to give hands to one another of embrace , like afraid from being seen too linked together in public .
jacks hands were crossed behind his back , his palms fondly caress one another and the teacher betty was grabbing her white purse , and her face turned up to look at jacks face , while listening to his wise words to her .
they seem to talk about the world , or about peoples problems , nahumik reflected , maybe they even philosophize about some other subject but why should i push my nose into their business ?
had nahumik listened at that second to jack , he would have heard him saying all my life i thought that jewish philosopher espinoza had correctly said no love except the intellectual love , will continue forever but we will proceed in our relationship , betty , as we know and like and appreciate each others rich wisdom and wealthy life experience what dyou say about that ?
of course , my opinion is like yours , dear , said betty with a joyfull laugh .
when nahumik told his mom ramona about his discovery regarding the queer couple , she told him that she had already inquired her clients about the two .
i was revealed to her that what her son had occasionally seen was the naked truth .
ramona did not use these words while telling that to the boy , of course what is strange in all that ?
interferred solomon in their talk , as it was at dinner time , when the family members were sitting together .
we are not said to denounce miss betty middletown for that maneuvre to provide some earning to her sweetheart .
..you understand , nahumik , that this is the manner that people behave .
and teachers are not angels .
kaplansky was talking very decisively , and the boy knew that there were cases in which solomons wisdom would reflect the concrete reality , or the situation as is .
though this had raised in nahumik some resistance and sourness .
solomons ideas were som , etimes based only on blunt facts , but sharply styled they create in me a mixed feeling of appreciation and nausea , thought nahumik .
so , the english teacher found a pretty solution to pupil nahumiks language problem .
but there was another teacher , who was no less trouble maker , and she was called missis algebra .
she was young , and her surname was elizabeth .
her original red hair was changed to be dark black .
her nose was quite nice , and she had tried to erase the freckles out of it and out of her cheeks by a certain ointment or cosmetic operation , so the class girls would say .
she had a somewhat protuberant belly , .
though she was very meagre , and not once there were gossip rumors that she was just pregnant at that time .
but but from whom ?
nahumik raised that question to his best friend wolfee , a jew like himself , we have heard that her husband is serving in the american army near frankfurt , germany and she is here , a lonely cat .
ive paid attention said wolfee , that in the intermissions at school , she would enjoy to talk with our history he teacher , moustached mr. martin .
and ive heard hes married to a good looking wife , so would it seem strange to you , said wolfee very smartly , if you know that there are cases , in which both sneak out of school and go somewhere ?
i saw , that whenever they were meeting , they were laughing to each other , even winking no , i dont suspect her , said nahumik , because if she had been deeply in love with someone she would not have done to me such a disgrace , and behave to me in such an unjustified manner .
she would always give me the tail of all grades , in my case one or two .
when the parents meeting with the teachers arrived , the educating teacher ms. zelda told rimona , that the math teacher liz had been desperate about nahumik , her son .
how could it be ?
complained rimona , he would sit every night with the problematic equations and fix letter symbols for the unknowns requested to be revealed , and so on i think , that the accusation that liz raised against my son derives from her teaching method !
my son complains that she would always run with the excellent pupils , and she permits the failing and lagging ones to go behind , it doesnt matter to her .
its unfair !
the one who would try to ask something and by that halt the majority in the class to advancehe would see a gesture of shrinking arms and hear a saying you better ask your friends about that , but not now .
and my son , continued rimona to complain , has hardly one friend in class , who is ignorant like himself in math so , considering that we are living relatively far from any classmate and that we are new hereplease next year i will move him from this class , promised the teacher , he really has a psychological resistance to our best math teacher .
maybe she is really not fit for kids like him , with such light mental difficultiesyes , your son must have another math teacher i will not let him remain in the second class of this secondary schools because of the math i promise you .
when nahumik finished his second class in the secondary school , he became already thirteen .
he remembered that a boy who had arrived to that age in israel would celebrate a bar mitzvah , birthday party at home for his friends and also arrange a celebration in synagogue , where he would read a chapter in toarah and in a prophets book before the congregation .
solomon kaplansky also remembered that , and spoke deliberately about that with rimona , in the presence of nahumik and of little danny .
i understand that you would have wished some ceremony here , at home , he told nahumik , but you dont anticipate for your goyim friends to attend , eh ?
and you certainly dont think about going to a synagogue here .
the jewish only synagogue that i know is far .
its called truth people and the praying people there are far from truth tellers , theyre lyers all .
they are hypocrytes , and arrive to synagogue for entertainment purpose .
they come to hear thecantor the man whom we were calling khazan in poland .
they want to embrace the old jewish past , that has passed from the world forever .
understand ?
so , we should not want to celebrate among them .
solomon said we shouldnt so thought nahumik , as if he expected that i want him join me in my celebration .
i wont explain to him that what i really pray for is that i wont long so much to my forgotten little town in israel .
i dont miss now a synagogue or any religious place .
..i just miss good friends .
i have none except wolfee , who knows what a bar mitzvah is , as he would become thirteen too very soonhe really offered me to make together the ceremony in the synagogue of his father .
even if its far from my home but before the two could have arranged anything wolfee swiftly left la with all his family .
im sorry , wolfee told nahumik , i have to leave la with my parents tomorrow .
my pa owes a lot of money to banks and to private people .
the pink cheeks boy wolfee had to roam with his parents to pasadena , .
his father would open there a meat butchery .
but the business wont be recorded on his name for fear that his ex banks and other enemies would pursue him and sue him or kill him without suing , so said wolfee .
he will hold in his shop all kinds of kosher meat and sausages and other conserves .
.
.
nahumik had had a good memory from his friend wolfee .
the boy was in close and devoted friendship with him for two years , in the hardest time of his existance in america .
nahumik was feeling very lonely and bored , because his parents were very busy , and his inclination to prepare his homework properly and seriously had been minimal .
of course , rimona had tried to mobilize him for danys baby sitting in late afternoon hours , so that she would be able top assist solomon in his photo store .
but in the yearly holiday in summer nahumik found some idle time , in which he decided to develop the garden around the old hired house .
the sparse grass area reminded him ramonas house in his homeland , and so he found interest to cultivate the ground and prepare it for something to grow .
he dug pits around the trees , and cut down the wild grass growing around on two heightened empty plantbeds or really ex flowerbeds , that had been risen there by the previous owner of kaplanskys house .
but what will i sow in that empty land ?
nahumik asked wolfee that question , as his friend began to visit him frequently at that time .
dyou know some words in yiddish language ?
wolfee raised a counter question .
of course .
in israel l grown up people would talk that language , and i had listened .
though now kaplansky my step father tells me that he avoids talking publicly with somebody in that language , as here its thought to be non intelligent and a proof of lower class people well , said wolfee , if you are familiar with yiddish , you know what bobkes are i think its common beans , said nahumik , i know that from my step pa , who once told my mom , still while we were in israel the arabs had not shot bobkes on the jews , as people now think .
they fired real bullets , who killed my son and theyll buy more and more ammunition , theyre rich from oil .
so we dont have any chance to live here , and well leave this cursed place , called the holy landhe said all that in order that i would hear , and come with them here to u.s. okey , lets sow here bobkes beans , said wolfee .
jews will love our goods well sell it and earn money .
i suggest to cultivate and grow that stuff together .
ill buy seeds tomorrow .
well , said nahumik .
well share our profits fifty fifty , okey ?
nahumik agreed , and after the growing season they picked the beans .
they both put the harvest into two containers , that were used before for souring cocumbers .
they peeled the baseballed fruit of the beans , separating it from its green yellow cover , and nahumik brought that home .
he put the containers without covering them under the tub in his mothers kitchen .
after a week his friend came back for a visit , and asked about the fine beans .
nahumik had not looked at them in recent dayswhen the two friends pulled the containers out of the under tub place , they saw that all the harvest had grown mold like cobwebs peeped between and over the beans the fruits color became grey and a smell of stink penetrated the boys noseswolfee was a good friend .
he did not rebuke his friend nahumik for that failure .
the kaplansky family was now living quietly in their separate house .
it had some resemblance to ramona and nahumik house in their past , not in a downtown blocks flat , that the family had lived in its first period in la area .
.
.this change in their living condition took place just in the time that ramona , who had devoted her first months in u.s. for care taking of her baby danny , had found a mexican baby caretaker fit for the job .
ramona entered to work with her husband in the store as a full time job , and became his main assistant there .
she dared to replenish its shape very soon , and afterward .
kaplansky became aware , that she had understood the trade and shown a splendid marketing capability .
so , shortly after beginning her work there , ramona hanged on the door of her wide sales room a brass plaque , saying store marketing manager .
practically she was a simple seller , but she had known that in u.s. a title of a person as a manger is most important .
she also hanged a wide plateboard over the stores front door kaplanskys , and under it was stated all that you want to know about photographing , screening , recording , loudspeakers for private use and for movie making and television as well .
tv was then in its first days .
step by step the couple had begun to know some photographers , screenwriters , directors and producers who became clients .
also a few movie stars would appear in the store , and ramona was thrilled by them , more than kaplansky .
as a result , the couples income was increasing , what brought them to purchse the new house a real small villa , as mentioned before .
as for nahumik , after the bad experience he had with the rotten beans he reflected it had been a curse for him to live many years in kaplanskys house .
he began to hate it i cant compare that house with my native home so he reflected , how well i remember every room and corner and tree and coop in my first home but here and now ?
id hardly pay attention to the orange trees and roses and grass in the small courtyard , or to the climbing bushes at the fence .
my eyes even hardly catch the sight of two little angels statuettes , made of beige and pink marble , at the entry gate .
kaplansky has set them there one day he was asked by kaplansky if he liked them , and he said yes .
but only a day after he really went to look at them , telling himself that they were rude copies of such thousand statuettes existing in the neigborhood .
solomon said nahumik to himself is enthusiastic about everything here .
he is used to ask mom nowadays could we afford this article in our town in the mandatory palestine ?
he would hardly mention the new state of israel , maybe just to resent me , nahumik , of whom he thinks to be too much patriotic indeed , for nahumik it had not been so easy to feel safe in the new surrounding and atmosphere .
but despite his mental suffering , he knew that he would overcome the difficulties .
of course it would take timefor inserting a root in here , he reflected , i should become sociable in the new country , i know that ... for the time being , im dependable on my parents .
i am aware that kaplansky was always trying to disconnect me from jews , and from anything that would remind me of israel , my homeland last year ive seen it he had refused to send me to an afternoon jewish small school .
i thought that he had intended to cut my connection here to jewish life absoutely .
however , he sent mom to tell me the reason you know much more than any child would know in america about hebrew , and about jewish tradition .
i became to know that solomon had been right , only after speaking with a boy , who was studying here some hebrew and torah in elementary school and ive learned that he had no notion about talmud at all , soi can keep calm .
nahumik began to understand that his longings to the past wont help him to overcome the hard obstacles he would face in america .
some time he was still trying to curse in his heart , like praying for silly wishes to realize , like may god cause my childhood to drive away very soon .
or may the almighty keep me as well as he kept jacob in the bible , in aram .
but he knew for sure it wont happen .
despite that he was feeling that no one should fear even of a lonely secluded future , he should strive to change his way of thinking about his fate .
yes if you had been a very strong god believer you could be robust and think that god makes you pass an experiment every day .
rabbi aaron had lived many years among foreign people and he was condoled by knowing that they had been as afraid and worried as himelf .
but he had known , that in his spirit there were some antagonizing horror , anti terror microbes .
their power which had derived from the almightys , would rescue him .
yeah , rabbi aaron had an enormous confidence in old bearded god i dont have that in me .
i was educated in a free family , that had set religion aside , as god has deserted us , like mom was used to say .
but at the same time she had sent me to study jewish talmud and torah in hittins small afternoon class in the synagogue the hell , why do i recollect about all that ?
chapter 2 the next coming months passed over nahumik with less solitude than before .
at the secondary school he had still difficulties in speaking english .
however , his good nature and nice looking face had helped him some girls classmates inclined to chatting with him , and he had felt that even with his plenty of errors he should try and try till you wont fail .
he based that on a short story he had heard once from his mom , who was buying stories booklets , among them a story by the canadian stephen leackok about that subject nahumiks writing skill was not as well as his speaking .
in both , of course , he had had full mistakes .
despite his private teachers and his willingness to improve , his mind refused to accept the english strict instructions about present perfect tense , for example .
his teacher in the first high school class , augusta rank , had been desperate about that , and told him do what you want , okey .
today a guy can become a well known news reporter , even without talking or writing .
and even if you remian just a newspaperman , you can have a good editor who will proofread your mistakes .
so , nahumik had decided of even not trying to use the present perfect .
he was convinced that he would be understood always by the simple past tense .
he said that the remote past before the past was acceptable for him but the present activity that the past has an impact on it , or a present that is something stretching from the past up to this point is everything it causes an ambiguity so ill deny it at all !
it is understandable that nahumik received again and again quite bad marks in english .
but did not complain .
he was more worried because of his renewed weakness in math when he was fifteen , they got in class a new teacher for algebra .
that young man did not sympathize nahumik , simply because of his weakness in figures and calculations .
he had struggled quite adequately with geometry , and got a good grade but in arithmetics he was an absolute failure he was not wise enough to solve questions about two drivers travelling one toward the other or about two irrigating pipes that are pumping water from a cubic pool of 500x5x500 inches , each in a diameter of 10 inches how long would it take them to empty that pool , if their pumping capacity is 30 cubic meters per hours ? and so on.. you know that kind of damned questions .
the math young teacher approached nahumik one day with a smile .
suddenly his fingers uprooted a couple of hairs from the teenagers growing sparse chin beard .
nahumik shouted ayyyay , and his schoolmates laughed .
a jewish girl named hana told him in the intermission i knew that your turn would come .
she looked straight in nahumiks eyes , and then dared to tell him , that despite your milky beard you are a very nice guy , and by that she had won his heart .
she became his first girl friend then she revealed to nahumik , that the math teacher had been known to do the same beard uproot to teenagers in all the classes , in which he was teaching .
how did she know that ?
her sisters boyfriend had saod that hana loved kissing , and demanded from the guy to shave daily .
at the beginning nahumik would shave with an electric remington machine .
but shortly afterward he was under the pressure of hana to shave with gillet razor blade .
it smoothes his skin , to become like a girls or a babys but that feeling would hold only in the evening .
in the morning nahumik would feel the beards hair becoming tougher and harder .
using a razor twice a day would be mad , he thought .
so dont kiss anybody in class hours , and keep it as is .
nahumiks first girl friend , hana had parted from him after finding that he was liked by too many girls .
a better looking girl than hana seemed to him to be less dominant than her so he soon became her boyfriend .
in those days girls in la had already understood , that just a kissing and caressing and not having full sex is not a problem , if the relatively fresh couple agrees to separate in peace , without screams .
what was the reason that nahumik had begun to fascinate the high schools girls ?
firstly , he had an athletic figure and muscled arms .
his father in law bought him two weighing bars of these days for fitness training , and he used them .
he even thanked solomon , who had been very happy to know that he would not be absolutely excommunicated by nahumik .
.
.
a second reason for nahumiks success with girls , was his being quite a foreigner .
by his way of talking you could hear a non american .
he was having some german like dialect and many pronounciation errors , while talking even about simple matters..
so , nahumik was going out with girlfriends or girls for one time go out , for kissing and softening .
some of the girls talked with each other about him .
it came about , that almost all had become to know that he was a problematic guy .
he would tell girls as well as boys that he wont stay long in la or wherever in the u.s.a !
he is despising the filmscity and the movies ! !
what naumik would tell almost every girl about any film they were watching together was almost the same the chracters are just exhibiting an imaginary , un realistic kind of living .
as for myself , i would like to have a real experience in life , connected with contributing to society , even suffering some inconvenience by that .
dont call me a copmmunist or socialist or schovinist due to my opinions , which might have been dangerous at these days of mccarthy .
i really dont expect america to change .
no , i define myself as a liberal , a free man , intensly aspiring to re reach my old homeland .
yes , it is surely waiting for young people like me .
what a question is that why ?
because israel is having millions of problems its defence manpower is small , its society is composed of people who arrived from hundred countries and its food and monies are rare , as most of its people have no profession except the jewish classical trade of buy and sell something .
but we cant live only on commerce .
yes , there is the agriculture there .
my mom had been working with hens when were living there .
but such a branch would not be sufficient to feed millions , as the land is dry and lacking irrigation .
no water , which is vital to the land like an air to the living creatures .
nahumik was seen by some yougsters as a little cukoo , but others were feeling sympathy to him .
his parents , of course were opposing his old ideas regarding his native home .
he was lucky that no girl told them exactly what dreams she had heard from him recently so , sometime he thought that he could illusion his mom and solomon that he would normalize , but he continued to be too sincere with girls .
however some of them , who had been friendly with him at the beginning of their relationship , were soon becoming afraid .
they stopped relationship and he had understood why , but did not change his talking about his dreams ...
it is worth mentioning , that there was one girl , who had been so fascinated by and passionate about nahumik , that she demanded to make sex with him down to the end .
that was the slang of those days for a real fuck .
she was experienced in any kind of sex , so she told him .
she boasted in her daring adventures with grown up fellows , in contrast to other indulged fearfull class girls .
yes , i am a complete woman she declared , and not only fee sex do i seach in life , but a complete freedom of human being .
i have learned from my pa what communism is , and had read chapters written by marx and lenin , can you understand ?
yes im a burning communit , and i dont mind what narrow minded people would think about me .
at that time of mid fifties 1954 5 the korean war was close to end , and nahumik , that was already reading newspapers tried to argue with her about politic who is to be blamed about that korean war ?
not the communistic north forces ?
they are the agressors , its clear like the sun .
you are wrong , she said enthusiastically , the fact is , that the communists arguments are always right and proved so our truth will prevail at last , even if itll take some time .
communism is always the right side in whatever war is led against ityou delude yourself , humik , in your essential outlook about life .
sweety , you dont understand that capitalism does not solve the private problems of a human being but the opposite ?
capitalism can not enable each person to enrich his knowledge and develop his personality to a muximum in such a rotten regime , like in the u.s. any debate about an equal opportunity to each of us is a humbug , vanity , empty bottle nahumik lied only a week with gloria , that was her name for the sake of momentary sex and for accumulated experience .
really , his gentleness and could not permit him , so he said , to continue full sexual rlationship , from thinking that the episode would hurt her if they dicontact and go each to his or her way .
yes , his sincerity and his internal rectitude , his integrity maybe that is the word that mature people would define that , forbid him to delude her , and that would overcome my aspiration and attraction to have an orgastic bliss .
gloria said that she very much appreciated his last words , which show his feeling of care and understanding of another human beings fate and in that he becomes closer to her systematic thinking , that there is a collective responsibility to our deeds and steps but shwe as an individual does not care if he leaves .
he has to understand , that she does not respect nor believe in any capitalist burjuee institute , and of course not the official marrige institute , that enslaves a couple , and so on .
she will have as now as well as in the future , with whoever she would like , okey ?
and of course she would not lie with some guy , whom she will not want or who will be disgusting in her eyes .
and such are most of the males in this ugly world .
these words have to be said regarding every woman , dont they ?
she thought that those last sentences would relent nahumik , but he said he must avoid what he expects that would hurt her .
whatever she would say , he knows that when they will depart , it would make some hollow black wound in her feelins .
what does she say about such an eloquence a hollow black wound ?
i have never seen , she said with rolling eyes , a sincere and honest and queer creature like you , humik .
but maybe youre a real homo .
yes !
and she went away .
however something from his meetings with that teenager girl gloria had remained in nahumiks memory .
she called him humik and he liked that nickname .
so , since then all had become to know his nickname that girl was older than the others , and had been much appreciated for her boldness and sharp mind and tough tongue .
so , she persuaded her classmates to accept this nickname .
she had three months period of relationship with nahumik , and .
all were sure she had lied with him a lot .
it was a lie , but her pride could not prosper without that another of humiks girlfriends at that time was a believer in scientific books .
and they say , she said , that there are other worlds , in which life exists .
if so , why do we have to worry about this ugly worlds creatures ?
god should care , not us .
you are right , said the young guy , i studied with a rabbi , who once citated a book called breishith rabah god has created worlds and desroyed them .
why ?
we dont know .
like science also does not know many things .
the universe is a mystery , and life which is only a part of it , is a riddle .
and for me nahumik or humik , life also means returning to my homeland .
i was forced to come here , though my parents would tell you otherwise .
recently ive decided to cheat them regarding that .
ill lie as well to all my friends , except you from now on im going to tell everybody , that i wont stay for long in u.s .
yes , i would even study here in some university , or better go to work in the film industry is it so emotionally difficult to forget your native land , and all your past ?
asked the teenage girl , i think you have just to be busy in studies and work andin lovemaking .
so youll overcome that obssesion , of being attracted by a far away country .
when youll see its people , im sure youll be disillusioned .
maybe she was right , thought nahumik .
that occurred after they had decided to separate from her .
chapter 3 at the age of sixteen and a half humik was feeling like a grown up .
he had finished the second class of highschool , and understood his parents problems , while he was unwillingly listening to their discussion about a visit of another fertility physician .
and solomon said in a broken voice maybe we leave that .
i am too old for that already .
your two kids are enough .
i am tired of bothering with those laboratories and tests .
ramona remembered , that at their first days in in la , solomon was very enthusiastic that she will bear a new baby , and after some sperm tests that he held , he was even complaining maybe the cause for all that is not me but you , ramonka .
we have to go professor sortheim .
you know that i have not left my wish to have a kid of my own .
now it seems to be late , she said to herself .
and now nahumik had his own breakdown , regarding his studies with his bad math he could still hire a private teacher and pass an additional exam but his english also remained poor .
he had spelling mistakes , and his compositions in style as well as in ideas , were awful , so the teachers had told .
close to the exams period solomon tried to convince humik to re invite the retired actor , teacher jack but in vain .
so , one day at the end of the year studies , humiks schoolmaster called ramona and told her i have decided , that your son would remain in same class for next year .
hell repeat what he had hardly learnt this year .
humik left high school , in which he had studied till that time .
he had no wish for studying any more , he said .
perhaps he would do a favor to others by his quit , because sometimes he would ask questions , that stopped the teacher to advance more quickly .
that meant that he had disturbed the others in the math and english .
all the this mess that you have now , rebuked kaplansky at him , is a result of your missing a lot from class .
i called your school two times by phone , because the teacher told me that you had disappeared .
nobody knew where you had gone to .
once you told me that you went to a club of horse riding .
but i can guess also , that you headed to the famous tramps quarter !
nahumik answered angrily you want to insult me ?
you can hire a detectiive to trace me and investigate about me .
despite his parents contradiction , humik decided to seek some work , but it wont be in their branch of business .
he would try his own way .
he told them that he would begin as a hired simple worker , having already found a partner for his job .
and you , he shouted at ramona and her husband , you should both respect my wishes , whatever ill do .
thats all .
it was night when this debate happened .
humiks brother danny came into the living room , dressed in his pyjamas .
his eyes were winking from the electric light in the guests room , while he had been awakened by the shouts .
he embraced his mom , from dread of that quarrel .
ramona and solomon had been adviced by a psychologist .
such a behavior is a teenage characteristic known problem said the man .
it has to be solved by letting the teenager run in his own path .
of course you should take care , that the youth wont be joining criminals or fall in some witch girls hands , and so on .
in teenage all can happen ...
in that point of time nahumik found a neighbor youth in his age .
they decided to work together in taking small parcels from factories and wholsale businesses to retailers .
for that they had bought a motorcycle .
the friend had a girlfriend whose father was from italian origin .
he had owned a bsa reputable motorcycle , that he wanted to sell .
that man was purses snatcher , cash safes breaker , underworld broker and so on .
but he never had been involved in murders , so humik had heard from his friend thomas rigoletti .
the criminal would always work alone , but promised thomas , that if he takes his daughter as a wife , he would become his business partner .
thomas rigoletti was not so happy regarding that matter .
he knew that two guys before him had left the girl , without chatting about her father but his own mouth told all that history to his friend humik .
he added that the bsa had been very well maintained , and so on humik and thomas bought the motorcycle and were both satisfied .
until one day thomas told his girl friend that better they separate .
his parents were pressing him not to be engaged to any girl , and as i respect you , so he lied to her , i must break our relationship .
you can choose any other guy you like and i will have no other girl friend .
because i am too young , so my pa says .
thomas had told all that to humik , who justified the way he handled his situation .
however , a week afterward tomas rigoletti was crushed on this bsa .
he was thrown from the motorcycle in a distance of twenty meters from the sidewalk edge , hitting a bricks wall fence of a villa .
his brain was blown and spilt on the sidewalk .
a truck hit him , that no one saw nor knew its number , nor could describe it as it continued driving away in a speed .
police came too late with the red cross .
humik had heard about that and weeped , telling his mother that he was unlucky to have such a poor partner .
cruel kaplansky rebuked him , however have told you not to make friend with that italian .
he was a good guy , but who knows who his friends had been .
though im a cosmopolitan in my political social opinions , i think you better make friends with poles .
ive told you that already .
they are to be found here , dont say they are hiding .
i know that in your ex class at highschool , you had only anton skestushky , the math genius .
if you want ill ask my polish origin clients about their sons , or even their daughters humik remembered , that a day before was his turn to ride the motorcycle , that he and thomas were owning .
he had seen some guy tracing him with a private car , and thought it was a homo , who wanted to get his interest but no , he couldnt be sure if his friend was killed by a gang of the girlfriends pa , or oh , my good friend thomas , he said to himself , i remember how we were riding together on the strong cycle .
many times i had been the driver , and you sat behind .
when you wanted me to bypass some vehicle , you would shout in my ear hum , give him a gay hooter .
hoot again !
he hasnt heard you !
humik had attended the funeral procession , and afterward visited his dead friends family .
thomas father wanted in his adolescence to become a priest .
but soon he had left the clergy studies , and emigrated to the states with his bride , thomas mother .
my son was killed because of you , murderer , shouted the father when he saw humik arriving at his apartments door .
the young man , who had come to condole the parents of his friend , found himself under fire , and was very embarrassed .
his brain was crushed by a truck of a drugged man , continued mr. rigoletti , my son was a partner of a jewish criminal like you .
it was your idea to buy the cursed motorcycle !
he was misled by you .
youve told him , that you couldnt buy the vehicle by your own means , and i know your jewish parents dont lack money .
you are guilty , jew !
out son of a bitch !
humik discerned that no one of the mourners and condoling visitors was rising to defend him .
he went out , and heard that some others shouted at him curses .
since that day , the awareness that the states was a bad place for him , got even deeper in his mind .
in u.s i wont be able to making a wonderful living as kaplansky would say frequently .
my soul is not built like a wall , that would be gradually hit by a childrens soccer .
maybe in a moment of pure reason i would tell myself that a spitting is a drop of a blessing rainwoe to me , because of my passionate , unexplained aspiration to turn back and fly to my fascinating homeland though bleeding starving but struggling , i am doomed .
my mom paid attention to my sadness , that had come out of this accident .
i havent told her about thomas papa , that while thomas had been alive his relation to me was quite sympathetic .
it seems like kaplansky heard about the sad event because he tried again to convince humik to join his mother in her work at the shop .
this time nahumik agreed .
he was convinced , that kaplansky from his point of view , was realy caring about him .
he had also promised to bring to humik the phone number of a very pretty girl , a daughter of one of his clients , marsha .
in that thought humik maybe a double disguise will be my best solution for remaining here for some months , as i have not yet decided to leave .
i am a hesitating kind of person , or call it cautious and responsible for his future .
but soon something changed humiks plan for years he had not written to his friend mike in israel .
now was the time for sending him a postcard .
nahumik was doing that for curiosity , and maybe due to longing to old innocent days .
he was waiting for mikes reply in impatience .
it has come after about a month , while he was in the store beside his mother , selling an expensive camera to the beautiful hollywood star simone richland .
humik did not quite remember then the actress last name she had a marginal role in a new movie , that he had recently seen .
there was a ring on the stores phone .
ramona indicated humik to rush to it and answer .
on the line was his best friend mike .
i have received your postcard , nahumik , said mike in hebrew , have you gone out of your mind ?
you want to return to your homeland ?
crazy ! .
i have just sent you a response by postcard .
three weeks later the postcard has arrived .
mike wrote we dont have to buy here food by a special voucher like in our old days , but its very difficult here .
dyou remember the green sour apples we were used to eat ?
no red or pink or yellow apples in the market yet , only in pictures .
not to speak about buying a private chevrolet car , that you should pay five hundred percent import tax to buy it in israel .
crazy , you .
humik thought that he should think about all that , and recalled he had written to mike about the bad experience he had with the motorcycle .
but mike is too enthusiastic of america .
surely he was surprised , when he read in my letter that kaplansky was owning an expensive car , for a long time .
and that i , humik , use it rarely , though i have a license .
mom is much a better driver than myself .
perhaps i am longing to horsy thought humik .
i dont enjoy a car so much .
then came a second phone call from mike .
ramona received it again .
mike told her he had arrived in new york !
dyou come to u.s. just for enjoying yourself ?
she asked in wonder .
mike complained about the bad times they were having in israel .
we have told that to humik for long .
she sais , the press here doesnt tell lies .
talk to him , and persuade him to remain here and neglect his dream to return to his childhood land .
ramona asked mike about his parents , and he answered they were well .
then she handed the apparatus to humik , her fingers trembling , as her heart expected something bad .
hi , nahum , said mike , you wrote me that you had left school , and i have done now the same .
in max fine technical school i had studied the cursed mechanics , but its not for me .
i prefer to be a driver , like my father in law .
but you could study delicate mechanics .
i know you have had good hand for that .
or even become an electric technician.you can find work everyewhere with that craft , no , these professions are even worse for me .
i am not fit for the theoretical studies .
my mind is narrow you remember .
so , my good pa has long permitted me to learn driving his truck .
now i have passed the government exam and received driving licence code 3 , that means including heavy trucks but in short i am in new york now !
what ?
shouted humik .
i went on board a ship to america .
i was a kitchen worker and a deck boy , a cleaner .
dyou remember our classmate itamar gitlefeld ?
his good papa was called a vessel economist or something like that..
he had organized the voyage for me .
humik was decisive to travel to ny and meet his friend .
he thanked kaplansky for the opportunity to date with young marsha .
but the prettye girl is not for me , said nahumik .
she is a virgin , and jewish , said kaplansky , though she is coming from a reformist kind of jews her parents are not zionist dreamers like the orthodox mizrahi or messiah believers , like habad hosidim .
for the time being i am going to new york , i am decisive , told him nahumik , while ramona was also listening .
it was noon , and the store was empty of clients .
you make a big mistake , said ramona to her son , i know this guy , mike .
you are enthusiastic to meet him , but he is a bad guy .
like in his childhood , im sure .
in new york its so easy to get entangled in some bad events .
be cautious .
ill go there for a month , said humik .
you have to have much money for that .
dont be living in a cheap hotel , its dangerous , said solomon and handed him two thousands bucks , take this , and report to us if something is going wrong .
i hope you have saved some money last months .
and youve yet to get compensated for the motorcycle , of which you were a partly owner .
your friends family will get a lot of money from the insurance , even if the killer is not found .
thank you , said humik .
his mother added five hundreds in cash that was inside the cash drawer .
i am worried about you , my grown up son , she said suddenly .
why dyou worry ?
you have two sons , he said cynically .
dont dare talking to me like that , she rebuked .
she has not added anything , and even took him with her three years old chev to the train station .
he had with him a blue backbag and in it underwears and socks and additional shirts plus a sweater .
it was spring time , and at the beginning of his journey he was looking on wide areas of the west .
he was saying to himself why do you want to return there ?
and became sleepy .
in his dream he saw again his friend tom , who appologized for driving too fast , but claimed he had not been guilty for the accident chapter 4 mike and nahumik in that name humik had been known to his past friend met in a small restaurant , in a side street , not far from columbia university .
nahumiks eyes were wet from excitement .
mike was a cool guy , and boasted that he had been already a week in manhatten and found another israeli .
he was dwelling with that friend , whose address he had received from his fathers cousin in israel .
mike said that he would like to work as a cab driver but for the time being he would be a carrier .
his friend promised to let him arrange him a fake taxi driving license tomorrow we will be moving furniture , he tried to talk english , bad english , and drive to bronx with truck .
you join , nahumik .
the shared small room was in north manhatten , and the dwellers were satisfied that nobody was paying attention to them .
the room was very dense , but they found a corner for nahumik to put his folded corpse on as they said .
but what would they do in the long evening ?
i invite you said mike , to go out with us to some club with a bar .
some israeli singer girl will have a show there .
maybe she is as young as ourselves , explained the other guy , who was a cleaner of offices , washing floors with acid liquid named disin fect so he said , which had a sharp smell like any disinfection material , that would pain your lungs .
but the guy was satisfied he had found a divorced woman of forty he was 21 , after an army service in israel who fell in love with him .
he was earning some hundreds bucks a month , which could hardly cover his expenses for hiring the room and food but his sweetheart was assisting him with additional three hundred bucks .
thats not bad he said in english , taking into account also having sex .
we do it only in daytime no , i dont sleep with her , as she has yet to get her divorce document from the court .
we are meeting secretly changing meeting hours , to confuse the enemy .
we hire a hostels room for an hour time four times a week .
its a low cost hotel .
if you want , turned mike to nahumik , you can also begin working in izaac langermans cleaning office .
but it depends on your decision to live here in new york .
i am afraid to clean the sky scrappers , answered nahumik , cleaning the window glasses there makes me sick .
he is right , said the other guy , thats a very professional work , causing dizzyness .
only blacks are capable for that .
i mean those who are ny born , as they were used to look down from the fiftieth floor .
maybe some japanese can also do it .
yeah , confirmed mike , nahumik had been heights frightened also as a boy .
he would hesitate to climb to my parents apartment on the second floor .
remember ?
he asked naumik .
the israeli show in the club , that the guys were driving to , took place in a half industrial commercial area , out of the citys skyscrappers .
sometimes you could hear there a yell of police cars .
but the cops know , said mike to humik , that our place is neat .
no quarrels , no shooting , no drugs .
the audience will be consisting of new yorkers old jews and young israelis like us .
youll find foreign tourists , so i heard , said mikes roommate .
the three young men arrived to the israeli show by a cab .
chapter 5 on the annoucements stand , near the cash window , there was an advertisement for new and old israeli songs.the small letters in that ad were telling the singer will be semadar , who has come directly from israel .
her photo in blue was at the ads side .
humik told his friend mike that he wouldnt object to make acquaintance with that girl , but he should see her first .
though i presume that there are tens of guys , who would like to meet the singer , he added .
you dont get an inferiority complex , said the third guy , she may have many courtiers , but if you want try .
as for myself , i am not interested in young girls .
i have my mature girlfriend , and shes enough for me .
i want to meet an american girl , said mike , one who would like to improve my english by chatting a lot , and make love .
so , we will not compete about that singer , smiled humik .
mike pointed on an old ford car that was parking nearby .
a suited gentleman and two young women got out of it .
oh , said mike , i see there two girls arriving , escorted by the dark man .
maybe well have two singers , not one ?
oh , one is holding a music notes booklet , shes the accompanist .
the man is their manager or organizer .
the girls , aged about twenty , were dressed in yemenite black ebmroidered shirts and long black skirts .
from far the guys couldnt discern that one was wearing a golden thick bracelet .
the two singers and their escort male entered the front door of the small clubs hall , not looking at the guys standing nearby .
mike said to humik look , yopure not too tall for both girls .
humik said i think id like to talk to the girl with the notes .
she is not the singer semadar dahiry , said mike .
you said before that you liked her on the ads photo i once went out to watch movies with her younger sister .
or i am mistaken .
they are four sisters .
but who is the other girl ?
asked humik , im interested in her .
i think she is semadars friend , a piano accompanist named tamy .
on the ad her name was ommited .
maybe she will also sing get inside , the show has to begin .
why are we waiting ?
there are hundred people inside , said mikes room mate , lets buy three tickets , and he soon did that .
entering the show hall , mike recalled that somebody had told him about tamy .
she has a small limp in her left foot , he told humik , we couldnt just discern that from far , but im sure .
i dont mind , said humik .
i sympathise her face and figure , thats what important to me .
the third guy suddenly whispered to mike if she has one leg shorter , than the longer one will compensate him for the shortage .
both roommates laughed , but humiks face remained solemn .
i remember , said mike to humik , that semadars sister was a traditional almost religious and so is semadar , too .
you should ask tamy , in case that you date with her , if she is also a burning god believer , like semadar .
i know you as only traditional , not really religious .
mike laughed .
i dont hate religious people , said humik , in contrast to you .
ye e s. you are right .
so , you may like tamy .
but if you want you can also try wooing semadar .
her father is a half rabbi .
no .
id like to talk only with tamy , repeated humik , she seems to me more broad minded .
the music notes are an evidence for that .
maybe shes come to new york for studying .
okey , well know more about her after the show .
said mike .
soon they found their assigned seats , and were ready to watch and listen .
the two girls began their show , while tamy was sitting at the piano and accompanying .
in some parts of the first song she was also singing but she had not been a soprano like semadar , and she was singing a second voice .
the second song was familiar to humik it was bab el wad about a wadi on the road to jerusalem , where a bloody fight had taken place .
at some moment mike elbowed humik at the right side of his ribs , hinting him to stop buzzing with the melody .
he was angry that humik had enjoyed the show , which he had not .
or maybe he was jealous of humik , who would try to date with an israeli girl , while he mike himself still hadnt found a girl .
and maybe mike was just jealous that humik had already an american citizenship ?
that is a huge advantage for a guy humik recalled that mike had told him the day before .
he suddenly remembered how in their childhood he had taught mike the legend about the ram and king david .
afterward humik came to rabbi aaron , asking what that legend had meant to teach .
his rabbi said oh , that illusion has a most powerful impact upon human beings !
even king davids eyes had deluded him when you grow up youll read about king davids sins , due to his big eyes .
they were numerous , but god helped him .
well , said mike to humik in the shows intermission , when the show ends well approach the girls .
i will talk to samadar and tamy , and introduce you to both .
thank you , said humik .
while listening to the coming songs , humik told himself its a pity that mom is not here .
she would have enjoyed those old songs , based on russian melodies .
but shell be against the idea that i would court an israeli girlshe does not understand its good for my spirit , that ill recollect my native country by talking to somebody whos just arrived from there .
yes , i am attracted to the sad and dangerous land .
the political and military situation there is not as used to be .
the new york times said today , that the egyptian dictator , nasser had nationalized suets canal .
he would challenge the british and french , who were owning the canal since engineer leseps days .
and now russia has signed with him a big arms supply contract , which is a danger for isarel when the show was over , the singers were applaude .
so they were singing again the last song shekharkhoret black haired girl .
the guys told each other , that the show had been an imressive one , and mike winked to his roommate .
but humik had sincerely thought so .
then four of five guys walked from the audience seats to the stage .
they were talking to the singers , while humik and his friends were still waiting .
to be fair about the girls , mike said , i think they are quite average singers but well tell them it was wonderful to listen , .
his friends nodded .
as the singers were handing their telephone numbers to their fans or would be courtiers , and also writing autographs to two guys , tamy was heard saying to one of the guys im not open to dating with you mike had already approached semadar , and reminded her that he had seen her once with her sister gilla .
semadar said she had well remembered him , and asked if he was still driving a truck .
here only a taxi yet , said mike , and introduced humik and shlomy mikes roommate , to both girls .
they shook hands , after having discerned that all the other guys had gone away .
humik began to talk with tamy about the songs they had been singing .
i still remember two songs from my childhood , he said , immediately openning his curriculum vita .
it was before my parents had taken me with them to america .
tamy had been hunted by this , and asked semadar , who was chatting with mike , if she agreed that the three guys would escort them to their room .
i am sorry i have to leave you , said shlomy , very gently , i have to wake early in the morning .
he left them , waving bye .
the four youths were strolling already on the broadway , heading to the north of manhatten , there the girls were dwelling .
humik told tamy that their russian and hebrew songs were sung well , but he thought they would have to include some american songs , for entertaining also local new yorkers not only tourists , that would attend .
i thought that maybe we reduce the russian origin songs , said tammy , i heard they dont like them here .
we know , that we still have to broaden our repertoire , and make some rehearsals .
i understand .
said humik , i myself am not a specialist in singing or music at large .
i have not a good voice for singing .
also my musical talent is an average , i presume .
i never had patience enough to play an instrument , though at the age of twelve my mom had sent me to learn guitar , but i quit very soon .
so , i am interested in music i feel its effect on my soul , when i listen to something well composed and performed .
where in america are your parents ?
asked tammy .
in la , near hollywood .
my mother is connected to singers .
she even knows two or three who had acted in musical movies .
she knows many artists , and one day ive seen myself a guy who was singing in seven brides to seven brothers , ive forgotten his name .
he came to our photography store .
if you are living here many years youve forgotten our country .
she said , and maybe thats better for you .
otherwise you would have what we call a conflict in your heart .
humik nodded .
then he touched her brochure .
what are all these notes , that you are holding ?
he asked..
these are the notes for our songs , including of the accompanying piano .
but i have brought a lot of such brochures from home im going to study here in manhatten shool of music .
oh , he said , i havent heard about that institute , but im sure theyll do a good job , and will make you work hard there .
i hope so , she said .
both guys , humik and mike , have changed phone numbers with the singer girls , and humik promised tamy he would call her within a day or two .
we are sorry we cant remain with you till very late , said mike , we have to wake up early .
i am working on a cab , and humik will have to look how to be registered to some course .
thank you very much for being with us , said semadar .
what course will you take here ?
asked tamy .
advertisement and promotion for entertainment and arts .
sounds interesting , she said .
semadar waved bye to the guys .
but before tamy has done that too , humik approached her and told her boldly in a sweet whisper you should know i like you tammy .
see you !
next evening , after the show , again mike and humik waited for the girls .
when humik tried to talk with tamy , she retreated , and he saw she was quite confused seeing him again so soon .
ill ask you straight forward , she said , how old are you , humik ?
seveteen , he answered .
she said she was older than him .
i dont mind .
i know such couples , who go out .
if you dont mind he said .
he became sad and she did not ask why .
it seemed to her , that humik was not a regular guy like his friends or like most of those guys coming to the stage , see the singers and try to get phone numbers .
she had met with one of them before yesterday , and he was not wise nor sensible like humik .
and mike is in your age ?
asked tamy to break the silence .
humik nodded .
meanwhile mike and semadar entered some caf , and humik remained alone with tamy , and they were strolling on the sidewalk we know that we are not an ideal couple , said humik , but we can just go out trogether .
even not kiss , if you stick to that .
it sounds just a well arranged agreement , said tamy .
she thought that it was not so bad , that she would be friendly with a seventeen years old guy , though his shape seemed to be older .
she will not remain alone all days , till her studies will begin .
but why has he declared already of his burning impetus to get back into israel ?
he wants to volunteer to the parachutists unit .
his parents oppose it harshfully , but he is adamant he said .
his mom is married to a second husband .
humik can not bear that mans opinions about israel , and so on .
he really hates him .
maybe therefore he wants to get back to his homeland , so he had called israel .
he has gotten american citizenship , but also his israeli one is kept .
i dont know if thats possible , tamy told herself .
but humik said that .
chapter 6 after a week humik phoned to his mother , and this time for requesting a loan from her .
not as a present , mommy money had gone on many things , he said , you request an example ?
i had met a girl .
going out with her costs a lot .
we musicals on the broadway and watch films and plan to go go to carnegy hall and to the theatre .
what more should i let you know ?
he repeated to her , that he had already used most of the money that he had brought to ny he would keep a sum also for registration to the course that he had told her about .
thats the only beneficial thing youd be doing there in ny , said ramona , you are spending too much , i dont want to say on what morehere , in la you could get a parallel course for studying what youve mentioned .
and much cheaper , im sure .
mom , i am adamant to stay in new york .
i have my friends here and better for me to be far from home .
thats my individual truth .
im a grown up .
who is that girl , may i know ?
a shikcaa ?
non jewish no , an israeli , he said .
well .
and are you working already with mike ?
yes , he answered , we are just carriers of bagages , but my earning is hardly enough for living .
therefore i bother your mind and hand .
at that point of time the third guy in their room , shlomik , had already left it , because his forty years woman friend got her official divorce .
the room she had been living with her ex now was remaining at her disposal .
so now humik and mike became well arranged in mikes room , everyone sleeping on a separate good bed .
okey , said ramona , after humik had informed her also about his improved dwelling , ill persuade solomon to send you three hundred dollars .
humik was outrageous .
his mother wanted to punish him by throwing the ball to solomon so he thought .
she could have sent him ten thousnad bucks , had she wanted .
he knew that she was having her own money account in the bank .
if you return to la youll get as much as you want .
she added at the end of their discussion yes , i am telling you that we want to control you .
your behavior seems problematic to us , o.k . ?
we are still your parents .
mom , he said , dont you believe , that im already in debts ?
that girl robs you , or what ?
what is she doing in her life ?
a high school girl ?
or a little secretary ?
she is going to study piano music in manhatten .
its a kind of academy .
shes also a singer , esarning here some money before she would begin her studies .
you are a very young , nahumik , said ramona , what have you found in an halturist girl , that would be a piano accompanist ?
or a guitarist , or a jaz singer in a snack bar or whores club she is twenty , you said ?
and she has not joined the army ?
why ?
having some physical or mental problem ?
mother , enough with your follies , im not marrying this girl .
now a mans voice was heard on humiks phone .
it was solomon kaplansky .
it seems to you that she is twenty , he said , but she is twenty three surely .
you dont know young women today .
after having passed the age of twenty , they begin to fake their age .
beware of involving yourself with pushing your nose into a girls pregnancy .
she is not faking her age , nor having any grave physical or psychological ailment , said humik .
so how did she avoid serving in the army ?
asked kaplasky , who interfered in the phone call as a self understandable matter , had she sworn that she is very religious ?
you know that a girl who would declare that , can easily get a letter from a dirty rabbi in israel and would immediately be exempted from army service .
think very well if she is worth while , added ramona on the line , why waste your time with a girl , who is not fit for your age and for .
.
.
your personality .
what are you both talking about ?
asked humik , she is even not a traditional jewish .
she is atheistic .
she has nothing with religion , and you frighten yourselves in vain .
whats wrong with having just a friendly relationship with an israeli girl here ?
i dont have to investigate any of her pasts steps , okey ?
whats the problem ?
she is ready to talk with me about israel and about life in general , and likes music for surewe even .
.
.
havent kissed yet .
you are very enthusiastic not only to kiss her , said ramona .
he almost banged the phone apparatus , but then cooled himself .
mom , dont you know that in israel couples are also going out without any intention to be married , or be engaged ?
we know everything , said his mother , but you should be aware of entanglement , as solomon has just told you .
cool your temper and impetus , and erase your enthusiasm .
okey , said humik .
so , please send me by the mail a check of seven hundred dollars .
well see , she said , now tell me about the course for the ads and promotion and so on look , son humik , said kaplansky , who was still on the line , ill add two hundred to your mothers amount .
if you are decisive to stay there only dont bring shame on us .
and dont work too hard in the carriers effort .
you can break your neck .
bye kid !
humik visited several times in the extended bar , where tamy and semadar were singing .
semadar had found also an ex israeli boyfriend , but her dating with him broke down after five nights .
she and tamy were using their original repertoire , that they had brought from home , adding to it only one song from annie oakley musical .
what you do i can do better etc .
.humik applauded them frequently , to cause the audience join suit .
sometime he would shout a word or two , like bravo tamy , or yofee fine in hebrew for excelling their singing .
twice he approached the small stage for delivering roses to both singers .
he had bought the flowers in the street corner .
for the coming nights he had already bought a black suit .
his aim was , that the audience in that particular show event , he would be though to be as the singers important impersario so they had called in israel a dealer or agent of artists , actors and musicians , at that time .
one evening he paid attention to two girls from the audience , were sitting in the first row .
they were chatting about who was the handsome guy , dressed with a suit , that was chatting with the singers in the timebreak between classical rssian israeli songs and jewish yiddish songs .
he is a sweetheart , or a manger .
he isnt just a friend of these singers , you know , said one of the girls .
i dont find anything attractive in these girls shapes .
they have no special shic like the french say , nor any social or sex appeal .
after the show , humik would go out with tamy to a bar or caf , or just simply stroll with her along the streets .
in saturdays noons they were travelling in central park .
there came their first kiss .
it was in public , like many other couples were doing .
the summer was bringing warm streams of wind from between the sky scrappers .
humik and tamy discerned many loving couples , including homosexual , walking while interweaving their fingers and tamy had refused to have a second look at the kissing males .
she said that she had just been afraid from any relationship , which was a deviation from the natural way of behavior you understand what i mean by that .
humik was excited from the innocence and sincerity of her words .
but perhaps her whole personality is just given in an unexplained fear from talking about controversial mattersi myself , being long years in the states , am ready to talk about real subjects and true facts of life , that she tries to hide , or to delay knowing about .
slowly slowly they were coming together to physical touch .
he was almost sure she had no experience with a man before , but didnt tell her , nor did he ask her about that .
once tamy had permitted him to enter the room , which she was hiring with semadar .
at that particular night the two singers had no show , and tamy knew that semadar was driving to new jersey with a boasting new israeli , who had approached her after one of the recent shows .
the chap wanted to impress semadar by his gigantic show room for gm cars , that had been a part of his agencys office tamy permitted humik to undress her upper body , and kiss everything exposed breasts , neck , ears , back .
he was licking and kissing and begging a further undress but she was as locked in her underpants and her forceful fingers removed his fingers from reaching my precious article as she told him with a smile .
i would not principally oppose to lie with a guy before marriage .
but that is a mental rational thinking psychically my body and mind oppose thatin this phase of our relationship i understand .
you cant surrender to lose your virginity , he said , trying to be thought as mature and considerate and motives analyser though he did not know if what he had just said and guessed was true .
in fact , she added , we have generally talked about all that two weeks ago , havent we ?
ye ss .
.
.i appreciate your position , said humik .
i havent counted how many young unmarried couples deal with that same problem of full sex or partial sexthey surely hold unending discussions about that .
somehow it is solved .
words draw a man and a woman close to each other , as well as separate them .
who knows ? .
.
now listen to my crazy sentence , tamy my fingers touch the sensitive strings inside your soul .
.
.and youre afraid of thatis this musical sexy parable true regarding you , my love ?
i repeat , she said very solemnly , if youre not satisfied with my behavior , i am sorry .
he whispered enthusiastically just let me try again to lick your neck and then your spinal column .
please , ive just found the most sensitive point in your nerves system .
youve leaped and moaned from bliss , i heard that .
your desire has come up to the utmost level , so .
.
his fingers tried again to reach her green underwears and he heard her lips mumbling again , no no no .
he rose up to his knees and said decisively well , i must accept the fact of your down barriers .
he got to her back and lied near her taller body than his , and began licking her spinal column , like he had asked to do that before .
he knew she had enjoyed that .
she was silent , but just at that moment her consciousness told her he only had claimed to understand me and accept my rules of the game .
its characteristic to any normal male .
i know that a male wants to penetrate , she now told humik , i had learned that from my short experience with men , and from reading .
i want to tell you , humik , what i do think about youngsters like you though youll claim to be an extraordinay and special and unique , okey ? ..
most of young men are short distance runners .
a guy would fake pure love very easily , even so young and still not corrupt like yourself .
yes , your intentions are pure .
dont be insulted .
things like what i have just said are so told and taught in so many sex books ive read .
the males of all animals are the attackers and aggressive ones .
i know and understand those natural qualities and zoologic principles .
its not easy for me with you , humik .
i see that youre really excited and enthusiastic also about my personality , so you name it , not only about my physical body .
but youre only like a boy , who touches the wheelbar of a new nice car and worships its performances .
.
.now i see youve become silent , meditating like me about the continuation of our relationshipso , you are permitted to stop all that , dear humik she took a breath after that long speech .
then added poofff , i wont be angry nor vindictive .
i am new in the states .
maybe here all happens in a quick tempo , which is different from that of a far country , like israel or korea or japan or australia .
its become on me too quickly , awfully speedy all this ...
i see you cant lie with me .
or you prefer not to .
right .
and i appreciate your saying , that you dont condemn me in having illusioned you .
of course not , he laughed bitterly , lets finish that banal discussion .
she turned her face from him , and he saw her covering her breast by her palms .
they kissed longly and she became seated on the bed beside him , not touching him any more .
well , after you know that ill not be completely yours , and that neither of us would be able to be completely relaxed and calmed .
.
.
i mean you understand that you are causing me tension .
.
.why do i talk to you by mumbling ?
oh , i am such an unstable kind of a young woman .
dyou agree to my definition regarding myself ?
i forgive you , though you have not sinned .
humik laughed indignantly .
i will begin to study in a few months , she murmured , i will have to devote myself to i had planned to tell you that .
but if i cant fail i cant failif it will happen. so let it be .
he tried to understand why she had spoken about that suddenly , and she was attacked by a laughter , which he explained as her confusion from her refusal to have a full intercourse with him .
where will you live , while studying ?
he asked , rising from the bed and began dressing , have you already hired a room ?
yes , ill be living with an old jewish woman , whose late husband had bought her a piano .
ill also do some service works for her .
but she is not a cripple , and its an antertainment for me to talk with her .
my pa found her , through old friends in new york .
she rose also from the bed and he looked at her nice breasts and exposed feet .
one was a little bit wider in shape than the other .
it is because i know about her slight limping , he told himself , that i clearly discern that. , but it does not diminish her nice figuremaybe this limp has caused her dismissal from the israeli army ...
he met tamy on the following night .
she was waiting for him in the entry of her rooms building .
when she saw him approaching , she ran toward him , and he saw her sudden shining face .
he did not ask why , and they gave hands and were striding toward the central park .
they were kissing there , and she felt his hard plevis on her side .
she was leaning on him and he felt her knee pressure on his testicles , and her breasts sticking to his chest .
her eyes were beaming straightly and approaching his eyes , and they both opened their lips and her tongue was already deep in his mouth , till he felt choked .
what the hell had deviled her strange covetousness on me ?
he asked himself , such a heat is signalling of her sudden devilish lust .
i have to lead her this time without embarrassment , like a mature man who knows what he wants .
i will capture her and dominant behavior will let her know that .
i am wetmy lustful selfishness you have my cave for shelter , shelter in me no more .
yours completey she murmured .
humik did not react to her confused words .
he wondered , and explained to himself that her mumbling had been due to her sudden alert , being aware not to waste their time any more , as she could not restrain herself .
she had reached a decision to succumb her body to his manly desire , that overwhelmed her veiled masked hesitating desire to get him into her i wont philosophize why and what had broken her heart to take that step .
but i feel her distended nipples thru her trico shirt , and see that she is now throwing out her bra on the grass , and embrace me more and more tightlyoh , she opens my pants , as she would like to have me in just now here in the park .
not here , he whispered , i am shy enough not to do that in a park that may bring violent gangs on us .
we should lie on a comfortable bed like grown ups , who wish to enjoy the best , he said succicctly .
she sent her palm between his legs and felt his manifested cock , and said very decisively so , why dont you carry me already on your arms ?
but only to your room , because semadar has been stuck in our hired room .
she had a bad scene with her new boyfriend , and they departed very soon .
shell remain in our room tonight , to write letters and read .
she asked me to go out with you to some movie .
..
lets get to my room , he said , my roommate mike is away .
i will devote my body to you there .
yes , i want .
ill have full sex with with you this time .
not with a piano .
not on the moon , nor in paradize , but here on earthmy cunt organ has become hot and oily like melted butter .
why dont you hurry ?
you are a forcefull youth , stronger than any man i had known .
he carried her a distance and she heard that he was breathing heavily .
he wanted to thake a rest and put her on the sideroad , and they stood for a moment or two , just letting his regular breath to come .
they looked fondly at each other , and he wondered again about her sudden audacity .
but there she was , same tamy who was now ready to surrender to him .
why ? that is not a topic to think about .
shes an artist , and what was a wonder before , that she had claimed virginity what a silly boy i am , he thoughty , i could have her already yesterday .
a loser , a gentle one , who had not gotten a slight imagination , who did not think and act like a mature no , why should i rebuke myself ?
they gave hands and began to run toward his room .
he opened the door by his key and they undressed each other in a haste .
they fell on his bed and covered themselves with a blanket , because the airconditioner remained open , since mike had walked out of the room , heading for a dancing club with his girlfriend .
.
.
they were breathlessly fucking .
after having arrived together to their first orgasm , they were still like melting in each other .
i had hesitated yestereday to do it , she said , and i was sorry that i had lied about my stubborness .
i saw that you really wanted me , but then i could not explain to myself why why not .
then i told myself why not ?
and i was suddenly terrified by something that you cant imagine .
but lets leave that leave that aside .
i cant concentrate now , good man i love you for the enjoyment and bliss that you had rendered me , he broke in a sentimental harangue .
i thank you for being so considerate with me , she said , i am happy that i have surrendered to my impetus , and for having a full fuck .
even if you have not used olla condum , i will not be pregnant , because my my .
.
what did i begin to say ?
i lose my memory , humik .
you dont be angry on me .
i had a visitor during my last nights sleep , can you imagine ?
.
.
.what did i tell you ?
a man in a barrel that rolls down from the slope of he was a little bit frightened from her verbal rain as he defined it to himself , and tried to continue to chat reasonably .
i have been always considerate and gentle with girls , he said .
you have a good character .
you seem to have so much innocence and modesty and integrity and you are modern minded , she said , im happy to deliver my inner spirit and most sweet juices , my pure streaming wellspring to your thirsty broomstick , .
she was attacked by a sudden laughter .
a witch is riding on your broomstick she is playing the piano with her nails staff of moses in the sky ... bamboo cane and candle lights round human monkey down down oh , wonderfull images , he said , but ill now describe a black dense forest growing around your cunt , almost hiding it .
i had a girl friend who had shaved that and i was disgusted why ?
i hated that because she had a fish mouth there .
i wouldnt like to fuck a fish , would i ?
a fish mouth cunt !
oh , it kills me , she burst into a loud laughter , that became hysterical , a fish mouth c u n t , and she repeated five or six times on that , then said mine will be the same .
ill shave it tomorrow and see your reaction .
if you refuse to sex with me without the hairy mask what would i think about your love to me , what ?
no , please dont do that , he said solemnly , i have seen some labia majora cunts lips and even a pencils smeareds black on such an organ but if it would have hided behind the trees i could penetrate the orchard and enjoy its juicy fruits .
.
.and please dont forget , that we had a small trees garden in my childhood in israel ... i like better the hairy pudenta , whats wrong with that ?
that i am so sincere and straight forward ?
or does it show im not a modern guy ?
and i also hate some stinking smell that breaks out from a cunt with bacteria there .
not only fish , but bacterias ?
she laughed again , and then said well , i understand the natural organic body , so to say .
it has a tremendous allure on you , this blackness stain on the white smooth skinnow we have a reasonable organized answer .
well , your style is acceptable , he said and they were again in a black forest of beastly cries and wild assaults of lips , like biting and swallowing each others flesh , joined by delicate warm caresses and moans of bliss.. you are good to me , humik .
dont dont blame me for my changing mood , very rapidly changing , like a view taken from a train , you see , and i dont know why , i dont .
i beg for myself so manymany good gifts , and i bring myself to abyssmozart was the genius of my youth , but he had deserted the stage and i swim , i can draw that blue on myself , and on your lookyou stare very strangely on me .
who are you , i ask .
why am i here ?
why dont i feel a solid matresse under me ?
i see a red wall , smoke all around , flees flying , bees stinging , no music , no , no .
what happens to you , tamy ?
he asked , again bewildered by her implicit sentences , have you been using some drug ?
the circle widens .
now there are two three four , they widen in the middle of the town square please , i can not concentrate , she suddenly said , i can not be with you any more tonight .
please take me back to themani dont know .
the focus broke down , the focus of the sun he was astonished about her jumping topics and disordered wording .
she was silent and her body became like frozen .
he took her hands , that he felt like cooling in his hands .
he elbowed her to raise her body from the bed , after having removed the blanket which partly covered them .
he did not identify her last sentences as a mental disorder .
he did not know what it was , as he had never read even an elementary book about psychology or psychiatry .
he told himself again , that either she had been shocked of something , or swallowed some drug as he had seen such cases of half merry unconsciousness among holywood stars , who would occasionally visit his parents store .
he was attacked by a sad mood , but restrained himself from insulting or blaming her .
i am sure youll be all right , he said , thinking that she may understand him .
they walked in that half slumber situation of hers for quite a long way toward her dwelling .
actually he was dragging her as a sack that i carried in my work with mike from a truck to a flour store , he thought ironically .
.
.
though he could get a taxi , he wanted to save money , being afraid that his parents may not provide him the additional sum , that they had promised and he had not yet received .
they hate my stay here , he suddenly thought , maybe there were some sense in their scolding at me he continued speaking to tamy along the way , saying very simple sentences , just to have her awarenesss that he was beside her but she did not try to answer , even her eyes were open .
i know that you are delighted to be with me and enjoy our talks and fond of each other , dont you ? what a quick and bursting fuck it was , i thank you so much , tamy .
i am sure you will soon get a good sleep , and awake tomorrow and see the new bright dawn he was telling all that for his own sake .
he could not imagine a sudden disengagement from her .
.
.
semadar was not in the room , but came very soon and discerned that tamy was lying on her bed , sleeping with her dress on .
humik told semadar , that her friend and collegue had taken some drink , and felt bad .
in his opinion she would be better after a nights sleep .
semadar was bothered with herself and did not ask questions .
she only helped humik to take tamys shoes out of her feet .
lets get to the kitchen , do you hear me ?
said semadar loudly and he did not understand why she had called him to be left with her .
ill be leaving a week from now , said semadar excitedly .
she seemed to him at that moment very egotistic , thinking only about herself .
next tuesday ill say good bye to you !
humik had taken the low chair there , and was patient to hear semadars story ive received a telegram from erga lifshits , she said , she is a most remarkable actors organizer and producer in israel .
ive gotten it just before ive left this place , to buy something in the pharmacy .
.
.
read this , she handed a paper to humik .
very nice .
she invites you , he said , reading the text , to join the band of two singing girls , who are just after their army service in an entertainment team.. .
very good , mazal tov good luck , semadar .
and you know who are the other two girl singers ?
asked semadar .
a pity that tamy does not hear me .
.. she knows them .
their names are avia and tzvia .
erga had told me that on the phone .
what kind of songs will you sing there ?
asked humik .
first , we will be called three singingirls in one word in hebrew shlosharot .
we will take israeli modern songs , some in jaz tempos , and french chansons .
we will set aside the old russian songs .
erga says that well have a mix of voices , that will fill the audience halls .
and she has many friends in the radio who will push our new bands songs on the broadcast lines .
but why is it so urgent , that you should return to israel so soon ?
asked humik .
erga has her calculations .
so she has decided , that i should take a plane this time .
only half of the flight cost would fall on me and the rest on ergas account .
..after rosh hashona holidays we will begin rehearsals .
and when will you perform on the stage ?
he asked .
hopefully in hanuka jewish lighting days , near chrismas days , which is one of most entertaining holidays in israel , especailly for children and their moms !
she laughed .
humik shook hands with semadar , kissed her on her cheek and promised her see you again tommorow .
tell all that to tamy .
she will have to be in my sole control after your leave .
on his way back to his room , he was still sure that tamy had drank something without admitting it , and that the bad symptoms of something serious would pass after she would be having a good long sleep .
in his room he felt a slight ache in his forehead , above his left eye , and he guessed it had derived from his tiredness .
he fell asleep quickly , and did not hear when his friend mike returned to the room .
in the morning , while already driving with mike , he did not tell him anything about tamy .
i know it would not help in anything , he said to himself he just tried to remember how reasonably and how well she had been speaking with him in the days before .
she was talking about her wish to be a most excellent student in the manhatten school of music .
she said that her instructor professor in israel had expected that she would be very appreciated there .
he had really recommended to her about that musical high school .
though i have heard , she said , that they wont have the best instructors for the coming year .
but professor bulkin told my papa , that a talent like me appears only in one of ten or fifty thousands piano students , taking into account the technical level and professional knowledge and wide repertoire that i have already achieved.. .
so , it wont make a difference even if they dont have extraordinary teachers there in manhatten .
he emphasized , that i should be aspiring to become not only an accompanist or choir director or opera coach or an academy instructor for music !
i should consider myself as a genius ! .
yes , so he said .
he prophesied that in two three years ill be so admired in america , that theyll find me fit for performances as a solist in piano recitals .
i should appear within five or seven years with the greatest philharmonic orchestras in the world yes , i lack knowledge in american jazz , i am only classics player .
because of that i have arrived in the states , to study modern music , like that of gershwin and even prepare a repertoire , including younger compposers .
okey , i have just bothered you in loud thinking about myself no , he answered , its not a bother for me its not boring me at all .
its just very interesting what i hear from you .
though i feel my inferiority complex buzz in my mind , and the itching in my heart .
a prey bird of jealousy is hovering over me , around and around , so what should i do ?
i have my right to live with my mediocrity , with my poor subtlety tooi wish you all the best , really and sincerely , tamy !
im sorry that you feel like predominatedyou certainly have many capabilities you are not aware of now , i am sure about that .
dont be so desparate about your personal potential and abilities .
everyone has some genius flickering inside .
wisdom is not exposing itself to other people until you convince them youre good in something .
and sooner is better than later , i say .
so think about how to exhibit a central faculty of yours , i dont know you enough to tell you what it is you very smartly condole me in all that , he said .
then he remembered that on their first night at her room , when she put off her bra , and her nice breasts were close to his nose he wanted to put on the light in the room , and she opposed that , suddenly shouting no , put it off !
i refuse to let you see me too clear .
im not a stripteaser .
and she came silent for a minute and then said oh , i am so bewildered now .
.
.
go out , humik !
next morning tamy woke up very early , and stepped to the kitchen .
semadar was half sleepy , and heard her shout ill finish with this .
i should finish my disaster , oh oh ! ! .
semadar did not know what had made her jump .
she ran out bare footed to her .
she found tamy standing in the kitchen with a long knife for cutting meat in her hand .
tamy was staring at it in dread , and screamed again .
it was something unclear .
semadr saw her bleeding left hand , and jumped on her back , grabbed her arm and snatched the knife from her .
she went to window , opened it and threw the sharp article down to the ground .
tamy steped out from the blood covered floor , and then collapsed .
semadar tried to wrap her wrist , over the hurted veins by a rubbered strip of an old cloth that she had .
she wanted to stop the shedding blood .
she called tamy by her name many times , but tamy did not wake .
in trembling fingers semadar dialled to the police and invited them in a shocked voice , to arrive in the room , with an ambulance .
two policemen came very soon with medics , who took tamy on a stretcher .
they said theyll bring her to mount sinai hospital .
semadar told the cops what she had seen .
then she mentioned the knife , which they have soon found on the ground under the windows room .
they took it with them .
they took also semadar to the police station for further inquiry semadar was released from police , as they had received a message from hospital , that young tamy had been proved to commit suicide .
semadar stated to humik the wording of the message that she had received by the policemen your roommate is suspected of suffering from schizophrenia , they said , but all is pending further tests and analyses by the experts of an asylum , or hospital of mental diseases , to which tamy would be sent in the evening .
yes , she had signed a form of consent to that.. .
all these details were told by semadar to poor humik , when he arrived in the afternoon at her room , because on the phone semadar refused to tell him anything about where her roommate would be .
hearing the sad news , he felt remorse .
he was sure that his friendship with tamy had not been the only cause for her helpless situation .
but who would be sure , that all the affair had no impact on her , and worsened her mental collapse ?
he wanted to visit tamy still at the same evening , but semadar told him that no visits were allowed in the asylum , for the time being .
maybe when her acute situation would improve ... of course , any further singing show of the two israeli girls had been cancelled .
on the following evening humik visited semadar .
he urged her to contact the administration office of the mads asylum , and inquire there .
not only that semadar had known the phone number of tamys father , and had immediately contacted him , to let him know her condition .
i am aware that she could get an attack , he told semadar , she had once been hospitalized for mental disorder .
i tell it to you only , as i know you are her best friend .
.
.dont scatter this news about her personal condition to friends or acquaintances or to the public audience .
.
.
i will fly tomorrow to new york , and take care to bring her back home .
the attack might pass very soon , after tamy gets a due treatment , semadar told humik .
she had succeeded to visit the asylum and talk with one of the young psychiatrists there .
she saw on the labels of the doctors the name grinebaum , and asked the medical secretary if he was a jew .
by chance yes , the secretary answered .
so , semadar had waited in the office , and when that docs came to take documents there she asked dr. ginebaum if he had been from israel .
no , he said but i have family relatives there semadar knew from him , that the attack may last weeks , or even only days .
then he told her this cursed disease might appear again to your girl friend , no doubt .
but it can be concealed again in her mind for years , and then suddenly assault forcefully again .
so is lifewe cant predict .
i hope that her father will come tomorrow , and take her to your country .
they know there how to deal with it .
thank you for your interest in tamy .
i will tell her that you have visited here .
she understands most of whats going around , and talks .
.
but you can understand that i cant reveal anything more .
bye .
humik was panting , while he listened to that unhappy end of his relationship with a girl from his homeland .
it had filled some gap of time in his young life .
he would remain now again with his friend mike .
the fellow had found already a steady relationship with a good girlfriend .
she was coming with her sister to hear tamy and samadar , and so got acquainted with the chatter mike .
in the following day , when driving with mike to their hard work humik was silent about his departure from tamy and about her madness .
in the afternoon they have met mikes roomate shlomik , who heard with mike that tamy had tried to make suicide .
let me tell humik the story about a suicide that i know , he cynically said to mike who smiled .
not long ago , just as i had become to know mike my old woman friend , who had no children , became pregnant from me .
she said she would refuse an abortion , and i pressured her to do that .
ill commit suicide , she said .
i was very shocked , remember mike ?
now tell humik what you had told me i said to shlomik , said mike , dont be a fool !
of course she wants you , shlomik to make suicide , not shell do it .
so let her goand so no suicide had come up .
the genicologists only scratched her womb somehow , and finished with the tiny embrio .
you want to laugh at me by your joke , said humik to his friends , or raise my depressed spirit .
singer tamy was really good to me , dont mock at her nor at me .
i bet on a whiskey bottle that youll find another pretty chic girl very soon , told him mike , you bastard know how to storm a girls mind , because you know well english .
your present bad mood will pass , you know .
.
.you dont pity mad tamy but yourself .
i hope youll not find an older woman of thirty or more likw shlomik .
why not ?
asked insulted shlomik , such one does not get illusioned of getting married with you .
she knows how to live in the present and thats all .
okey , guys , lets get into alex bar and take a whisky , and forget about girls now a week later , humik winked at mike while he was telling him with a smile i think i have just discovered a really attractive young woman here .
the doll had selected me out of about twenty guys .
we were waiting at the office for the ads and promotion course , that i would take .
ive told you about it .
i had to deposit there a second sum of registration enlisting fee , so they call it .
chapter 7 at those days humik had an athletic body structure , like a hollywoods star he was of average height , and had strong and developed arms muscles , strong straight legs and tough chin , that was rare for his age .
his head was having thick black hair , and his mustache was neither thick nor narrow , unlike the two horrible dictators of the 20th century .
because of the said qualities , many young girls who had met him in the street or on the bench , while waiting for the registratoin to the course of ads promotion for entertainment and artists , were quite curious and attracted to have a look at him .
they almost forced him to pay attention to their desiring eyes and protruding chests and beaming faces and silky skins .
they also heard his nice voice , while talking , and hearing his accent they knew he had not been a born american .
perhaps that had made him even a more precious kind of persona one of these girls was over twenty years of age , with plenty satine hairs falling on her back , grey yellow green eyes and a mona liza kind of a smile .
she was having snake leathers shoes without heels , and though it was summer time her feet were wearing white socks .
her skirts color was pink , and her quite open shirt was pink as well , but all that was nothing , comparing to her dolls face and strawberry lips , that had not been smeared by any lipstick .
but to humik they seemed as pure springs water to quench ones thirsty soul in a furnaced desert .
her name was raphaella .
after she had given his her hand to shake , she told her name and asked him if he had been there for the first time .
he said yes and she asked for fire to lit her cigarette .
he told her he had never smoked , and she waited till he found a guy with a pipe and brought her a burning match .
after they had been officially approved to be the course participants , they walked outside .
while being on the sidewalk , raphaella was giving her hand to humik .
she seemed cautious not to investigate much about his past or about his so called cultural or social fields of interest .
but she began to chat , saying look .
im a sensitive woman , and my experience had taught me that i should have much patience in my life .
im very sportive , and having a strnog heart .
my mentality is different from that of a regular woman i know many guys in town , especially those who practice arts or are already actors , and theatre or movie directors .
therefore im taking this course .
its fascinating , he said , that you affirm all that about yourself .
i really wish you success .
you are so pretty , that i a guy who has traditional beliefs and enjoys acceptacble ideas would not like me nor love me , she said .
so , you define yourself as an extraodinary non conformist , i would say .
yes .
she said , smiling .
regarding this course , im sorry that i take it only now .
i had been long living near hollywood .
i could have begun there to learn something about advrtising and promoting .
my mom was angry about me because of that .
but didnt you have any connection with actors or artists in hollywood ?
even not directly , i mean ... no .
i am young .
my mom recognizes some actors id left my family , thats the bare and real truth .
ive had some misunder standings with my parents .
i know that kind of problems .
from my own life experience by the way , what are you doing for your living ?
she suddenly shot her question .
only now thought humik shes really revealing her interest in me as a living human being .
well .
i have a temporary work .
im a carrier of tourists baggages , working with a friend .
he has a cab .
its a partial work .
are you paid more than ten dollars a day ?
no , he said , and suddenly she was looking straight into his eyes and winking with a smile .
i have a better work , with a double and more salary she said , have you heard about the peepshow cellar ?
no , said humik .
now its now quite a respectable but half secret institute here , in manhatten .
they screen sixteen milimeter blue movies .
they are also having natural colorful special shows of real fucking practice .
oh , he said .
i didnt know .
im less than a month here .
okey , you can visit it even now .
who owns such an institute ?
the mafia ?
i dont know , but i know the manager , whos very sympathetic .
most likely he isnt directly connected with crime .
i am afraid to work in such a come on , you will be with me .
these arent gangsters at all .
he did not hesitate any more , and walked with raphaella to the cellar .
i should inspect the conditions there in my own eyes , he said .
very well , she said .
they continued walking , and she added you have to know , that there are many visitors there .
its a prosperous business .
you can earn thirty five bucks per show that means an effort of only two or two and half hours .
unbelievable , said humik .
he was already glad about the new opportunity , though quite a curious and still doubtful .
if you remember , reckoned raphaella , that well pay for that cursed course about five hundred , you can make it quite easily here with me .
i earn an equal amount like you .
and you know you remain anonymous in this town .
i mean if you are shy , or feel its not so respectable .
but we are all here , in ny , like worms , you understand .
i dont just agree with your last definitions .
lets leave that .
they were kissing along their way and he was very attracted to her tall body and well built breast , and to the pecular color of her eyes .
even the way she was walking was challenging him , like her way of talking , and her almost pride in what she was doing .
im not a whore , she told him , dont think like that about me .
im attracted by her , and rush after her like a tail after a cat , god , he said to himself .
i still dont quite believe she pointed on a high building in the avenue .
its there , she said .
he was feeling that his cheeks were beaming .
ive not been shy recently , he told himself , but it seems i can still be amazed by a woman like young jewish raphaella .
she has just told me about her dominant father , whos an ashkenazy rabbi .
he had tried to prevent her studies in high school .
her mother was more modern and stayed in contact with her since she has left home .
all had been caused by her pedant papa .
it had been difficult , yeah her brothers were a differnet kind of people .
they were yeshiva scholars .
she is just nice and sincere , telling me all that .
thought humik .
for a moment his heart was over pounding , because he thought that if his mom had agreed to send him much more money and she could afford it he wouldnt have made this deal with pretty raphaella but immediately he stopped thinking about that they were at the entrance to the peepshow cellar .
it will be an easy job. promised raphaella , it will permit both of us to have more time for studying .
though she , raphaella , may want to go out together and enjoy some entertainment .
yes , for that hell need more money , as he will have also to pay a half of the rental cost of mikes room .
ill cause you , raphaella interrupted his thoughts , to get out of the frustration youve had from your last girlfriend .
you truly admit you were not lying together do you ?
he nodded .
raphaella began to talk with the guard at the gate , and humik continued to think .
raphaella still does not know my plan to go one day to israel .
why should i tell her that now ?
i am sure she is ready for a short type of relationship , just for the course days .
i assume she has changed a lot of mates in her life the guard or order keeper at the peepshow cellar entry recognized raphaella .
he permitted the couple to pass his gate with a smile , saying have a good time .
there were colored ads of sexy underground movies on the walls .
getting down on the wide steps leading the cellar , humik could see black and white pictures of nude girls on the side walls .
he and raphaella were reaching a darkened hall .
they discerned a crowd , standing and pushing forward , while smell of sweating was filling the air .
humik looked right and left and forward , and saw only faces of males , young and middleaged .
no old man had been permitted to enter , so he guessed .
his girl friend raphaella saw him staying to look around , and prompted him to push forward .
then he saw that men were just standing or slowly walking and looking at six like sculpured undressed girls , alive and breathing .
they were standing there at the wall , as ancient greek marble statues .
they had not dared to move even for scratching .
.
but all of a sudden a small gong noise had been heard and , at once , they all changed their position from looking frontly at the sex starving guys to a profile position .
humik surveyed the young women one after the other the first one was a white aphrodite , the second one a black cleopatra , the third indian american montesumas daughter , the fourth simply mulat , white and black mix the fifth was a japanese grabbing a silk made fan the sixth was a chinese with a rice bowel in hand .
all of the lips were colored by lipstick , and their breasts buttons had been exaggerately smeared by some paste of vermallion color .
some were like moaning in an artificial orgasm weak noises , and all had a glass like gaze , fixing their eyes to a far , unknown target on the ceiling .
you know ?
they should not look straight at you , as direct seducing is prohibited , said raphaella , who pulled humiks right hand by her left hand .
she was leading him now toward a wide gate , to enter a big hall .
the peepshow room is inside this hall , she whispered , dyou see the pentagon structure there ?
humik saw that some people were standing at the closed walls of that special structure .
the peepshow has not yet begun , she reckoned .
if so let me just return to the nudes , humik said , i havent seen such a view in my life .
maybe ill talk to one .
like negotiate , for fun .
they pretend to behave like shy girls , she said , so the regulations order them .
you have seen most men were viewing their bodies from the head to foot .
i wonder , that guys dont quarrel about some girl .
you shouldnt call them girls .
call them dirties .
said raphaella .
i discerned that the men were not even touching them , or .. .you know ?
some want to pinch an ass , but restrain themselves !
sir , she said , as they were back there , looking together at the girls , if you do that the manager will come with two monster guys and tear you shape .
everything is kept here on order .
i havent seen a guy , who would take any of them to a side room , behind the black curtain there .
nor outside , to a hotel or motel room .
he whispered to her .
you , wise guy !
she said , most males who come here are poor .
they dont earn enough money even to look at the peepshow .
they just come here to that corridor , to have a look of real , nice nude young girls .
they are gathering material for masturbating at home .
thats what these misers do .
a whispering buzz was suddenly in the air .
somebody pushed raphaella and asked what was she doing there .
the show was only for males , he said .
or is she a new girl , coming to work ?
if so , put your dress off , he shouted .
humik pulled her by the hand and they re entered the hall with the pentagon peepshow room .
at that moment the manager was coming .
you know that fionna has become sick ?
he asked raphaella , if you have a partner with you , enter the peepshow room now .
he indicated her to get there through the entry side door , but humik at first refused to follow her .
i thought , he said , that today were only in a visit here .
i really just wanted to view , and have some impression .
dont be silly , hell pay us today a special incentive .
thirty percent more than id told you before .
you swear it , he said .
i swear .
she whispered , dont fear .
they are decent guys here , and will pay exactly what ive concluded with them .
they entered the peepshow room .
she began to undress him , and was taking his penis by her fingers and began licking it , then pushed a button on one of the pentagon walls .
the manager came again immediately .
he surveyed humiks body from top to bottom , and humik thought it was like in a slaves market , but who cares ?
before undressing her skirt and underwear raphaella has worn big black sunglasses to her eyes .
the managers told her the audience is impatient .
begin with the show , even if partial sex , he added , you know in the last show the guy has finished a third time and was exhausted , so the crowd shouted like mad .
it was a big mess .
he bent toward naked humik , who was just seated on the carpet there .
i demand you to restrain yourself .
dont ejaculate so soon .
do like a disciple of zen budism , have you heard about that method ?
its of a hindu casta .
the manager went out , after having tapped humiks shoulder to cheer him up .
naked raphaella was now attacking humik , kisssing him fervently and holding again his penis in her fingers , caressing and kissing it .
she lied beside him , and pointed on the holes in the walls .
they both could still see through white color of the outwalls of the hall surrounding them .
but soon the color there had changed to black , as the peepers arrived , their eyes already viewing and their tongues licking their lips in a strange desire .
we have to make love like a normal man and woman , she said , who are in an amazing desire to each other .
you should feel like youre at home , in an indulgent bed with a dilligent burning woman , who is me .
i am a nimphomaniac , she laughed loudly .
she became kneeled beside him and pulled him to do the same .
he was looking at her nice breasts and red nipples and at her triangular haired pudenta and saw it was like lilac and black and very flashing in the electric light of the lamps above them .
he then gazed at her rounding shoulders and long arms and straight feet and at her buttockss and at her flat belly .
the skin of all her limbs was brown , a little bit sunburnt .
he asked where she was getting sunbathing and she said that on the beach not on a roof , as others do .
then one of the peepers whislted out of impatience .
raphaella told humik not to pay attention to it .
she was lying nude on her back , and he was lying beside her , his head on her face , kissing her again and again .
suddenly he felt a smell of dust in his nose .
he told that to her , and she said i think that they have a vaccum cleaner here .
they clean here daily .
also they treat the carpet removing sperm , if someone has spilled that dirt .
raphaella moved her face aside and her nostrills were sniffing smelling the carpet in a loud inhale .
i smell the perfume they have put in here .
then she faced him again and already interwoven her feet with his .
he was on her , and the saliva dropping peepers saw humiks back and ass .
she told him that she really loves him and he whispered that he had just heard peepers pushing each other at a peephole , and humik was laughing loudly .
she reckoned that now somebody has put his finger into a hole and moving it like a warm .
but principally we have very few real psychphants here .
after having penetrated her , he paid attention to the fact that the air conditioner was operating .
she said that it had been her request , because the smell of sweat really cause her nausea .
however , she likes the smell of a mans sperm .
oh , how have i forgotten to hand you a condom ?
she rose suddenly , and humik retreated .
she pushed the button at the wall , and the telephone apparatus in the corner was ringing .
yes , what is it ?
asked the manager .
i must have a rubber , said raphaella .
very soon one of the guards was coming .
he he pushed off the peeping fellows , and through the hole threw a small envelope toward the lying couple .
the peepers audience were whistling , while humik was putting on the condom and immediately re pentrated raphaella .
she urged him to restrain himself as much as he could , and he said he would try his best .
according to my agreement here , she said , we have to perform nine types of fucking poses within forty five minutes .
so , we are in the first , he said .
yes , but now let me climb over you .
i dont remember by heart all possible positions , he laughed .
okey , we have already two .
the third is i am seated on you .
fourth you almost seated on me .
fifth , let me remind side by side .
then sixty nine , then ninty six , and the last one is the hardest .
we need to creep like two dogs , back to back .
not easy .
he said that the last one he wont try that day .
how is mister pin ?
she asked and he felt the impetus of ejaculation and moaned quietly .
then he turned to the corner and removed the condom .
she handed him a new towel and he wiped up the wetness from his penis and palms , and was lying beside her , looking at her beautiful eyes , and she was also satisfied from looking at his athletic body .
their panting became slower .
the viewers know already that youre a circumcised jew .
she mentioned suddenly , laughing .
it seems like many of the visitors here are jewish .
he said .
about half of them , she commented , according to official statistics .
some come with a cap on the head i have an aunt , whos used to say if my guy laughs at my jokes in bed , hes jewish .
i know it without looking at his penis .
if i look , and discern hes not a jew i know hes a superman .
the dirties had told me , that sometime they would find a jew whos bisexual , or the devil knows what .
they dont laugh with you about anything in bed .
now is your snake ready to re visit my cave ?
yes , he said and was on her .
she began faking a loud orgasma for the sake of these spitters outside , she whispered .
oh , she suddenly said loudly , how had i forgotten ?
you must also moan out of big pleasure .
that is one of the clauses in my agreement with the management , that we should both fake loud orgasma voices .
because there is a certain type of males , that masturbte near the peeping hole only if they hear that sexual moaning .
is the manager peeping here from time to time ?
he asked .
of course .
he must take control of the performers .
especially regarding a new employee like you .
a man who does not seem fit for a smooth and impressing fucking is driven out .
its a solid and serious show business here .
sometime the towns mayor himself would come , looking or just selecting a black or brown woman .
all is officially approved , the manager told me .
now , you slow your effort , i see you are sweating .
its hard , i know .
i do my best , he panted .
im sorry .
dont think too much about your fatigue .
you might get frightened , and the what his name may change into a sardin .
about two hours and a quarter have passed , and humik was lying tired on his back , then turned to her .
they were just embracing each other side by side and kissing lightly .
he suddenly remembered what his mother had told him before he had made his way to new york well , you can get a nice amount of money from solomon .
pending that you remove from your head the idea of extending your stay in new york hell render you three thousands bucks .
now humik thought how had solomon become so rich lately .
eureka !
he said to himself .
the wisest of all man , our great king solomon , had thousand women in bed .
my papa in law has taken them into his photography stock , as naked as the living girls here .
how hadnt i imagined that before ?
many young girls were coming to hollywood from all over the world , to pose themselves for playing in the films .
most of them were thrown by the studios out to the dogs .
now i remember two of such girls , that mom had told me about .
she said that they were in trouble and came to her and asked some advice what to do in california .
they had no money to return to their far away home .
of course , they refuse to be just simple whores , mom said to me maybe they had been israeli girls .
i didnt think about the phornographic industry then .
solomon had begun to earn big amounts a year or two years ago .
now im thinking , that his assistant , moony was responsible for that kind of photographs in his studio .
they didnt want me to know about that .
the brochures showing the posing girls , were prepared in a certain press house not far .
i was discerning that moony was driving out on his motorcycle in daytime .
i was told , that it was because he had only a partial work with solomon remark dear reader , please remember that no www .
no cd s , no video tapes phornos were available in those remote years .
what are you thinking about ?
asked raphaella .
ah , humik waved his hand , you know , that men have some kind of sad mood after a fuck .
ive a friend who said , that it had been bringing on him a most desparate mood , like abyss .
he really asked a psychiatrist about that .
the doc told him that it was a regular post intercourse reaction for of most males .
so , its okey only pray then for gods help !
poof , raphaella declared , you , men are the most nervous , aggressive , doomed , morbid , damned creatures in the world .
god should have created you with a better structure of mind and heart , and elaborate their mutual communication .
chapter 8 hollywood actress simona richland , ramonas friend , travelled from beverly hills ca .
to manhatten ny .
she was said to take part on broadway stage in a new musical , that would be produced within a year hopefully as a celluloid film .
we have to remember that oklahoma and annie oakley and seven brides to seven brothers had been already produced and shown on cinema theatres , and simone had been one of the small stars in one of them and maybe also mentioned in the long long list of characters and actors at the end of the film .
so , her wish to take part in broadway musical can not be judged as a caprice add to this the fact that in new york was waiting for her an ardent lover he insurance agent nikolas collar so , you have an argument for her quick affirmative response to the musical directors proposal .
but all these facts were not so interesting for ramona , who heard about her friends flight to the eastern coast .
she had an interest in that journey mainly to ask simone do her a favour .
please find where and how my son is .
he hasnt phoned nor written about three weeks .
here is his address , but im not sure its now the correct one .
maybe he had changed his living place .
see what happens and report to me , dear .
simones sweetheart was forty years old , a kind of a guy having a thick velvet black hair like the legendary gregory peck in his adult days .
nikolas was wearing a black suit since his youth , and had many types of invesments in stocks and debentures , in gold and silver , in oil and maybe in airflight companies .
two days before simone had arrived in ny , mr. nikolas heard from a friend about the peepshow house .
he was a son of a mormon family , but had neglected his home tradition and belief , and refused to have eight children .
he was happy to be a joyful bachelor jolting from simona to fiona to nancy to betty etcetera .
simone was happy to hear that nikolas would like to visit the peepcellar after the year 1980 it became a popcellar , but were not interested in history .
so , the two were walkng there together , for reasons well understood humik did not tell ramona he had been there , but simone had not come for meeing him , surely .
the guard at the gate , named effy guessed that she was a new dirty maid , and when she was standing beside nikolas among the the dense crowd , some beagn mumuring why is this lady pushing us ?
why does she come in the evening , if she wants to work ?
the bosses have to interview her at noon , where no one would be here .
and everybody knows said another speaker , that a woman should not mix here with men that is thought by the law to be a seduction and so on .
soon the manager arrived before the waiting lines of the men , and simone explained him something .
having understood what she had wanted , he sent her and nikolas straight to the peepshow rooms holes .
he appeared to the clients , and asked all to avoid remarks and pushings and maybe also ass pinching .
as soon as simone and nikolas peeped into the showroom by two different holes , simone uttered a shriek !
i thought that im getting a heart attack she told ramona afterward on the phone .
my niece , the daughter of my own sister , who i have grabbed as a naked baby in my hands for bathing her was now naked , in different circumstances .
simone had heard something about her niece before but she thought raphaella was photo phornographing in ny , with well disguised face .
but at this moment in such a place and such a work ?
a jewish girl ?
my niece ?
hossid rabbis daughter ?
yes , its her reaction against the supressive atmosphere she had at home once i have studied about some pleads against the authorities , order nisi , and hebeas corpus the corpse is before you .
now , its raphaellas naked living corpse before me .
raphaella !
shouted simone through the peeping hole , this is your aunt , simone .
i will be waiting for you in the entrance .
please dont let me wait too much , and come to see me , darling .
raphaella was astound .
her family member gets into the lions mouth .
she has never dreamt it could happen .
exactly now .
time out has come for the couple , and raphaella and humik quickly dressed themselves .
they walked to the entrance , but through a side way , so that simone and her sweetheart nikolas saw them coming from another side to the cellar front door .
they shook hands warmfully , and humik was introduced to them .
simone remarked oh , we know already each other .
its a good message for your mom , humik that ive found you alive .
ive caught two pigeons at once , she told herself .
well , he said , you just tell her not to panic .
lets get to the avenue caf , and have coffee and cakes .
said simone .
all nodded and got out of the notorious cellar .
your mom would know now , that there are miracles in this world , simone told humik , i knew by her talk , that you were studying here something .
well , dyou continue with that ?
of course , he said , and raphaella is studying there too .
same course , same studies dealing with how to promote and advertise actors like you or artistsor fine arts creations , or entertainment productions , like movies and stage dramas .
its a broad subject , and i think that its quite interesting , said raphaella .
thats fine , said simone , humik , you had really travelled far away to study that , and to meet my niece .
well well .
after that meeting , ramona received a phone call from her friend simone your son has not drawned in the ocean , she told her , in my opinion he just needs more money for more entertainment and girls .
you know , in his age .
while meeting me at first his face became sallow , but he recovered very soon .
we were having a very intelligent talk , with the presence of my niece .
what niece ?
asked ramona , having forgotten that once she had been told something about raphaella .
maybe well be one day family relatives , simone laughed loudly , humik has a girl friend , who is a great tsatske , so wed call that in our yiddish language .
she is a kosher girl , a daughter of my flesh and blood sister zelda .
how old is she ?
asked ramona , and simone told her .
i dont like that , said ramona .
but then she thought that better this girl than the israeli one , that would have pushed him by her talks and by her innocent behavior , to dream more and more about his childhhoods land , in pros without cons .
okey , my dear friend , said ramona .
ill talk to solomon .
he will persuade humik not to take your niece too seriously .
i think the knows that by himself she is similar to me in her pretiness and she , my niece likes him very much .
not just fond of him , dyou understand ?
did he tell you if he was working in a better job than a carrier ?
it is not a work for his weak body .
in that i have great news for you .
hes working with my niece in a peeepshow cellar .
ha ha , ho ho .
oh , god is not so merciful to me , said ramona , and disliked the kind of comical sounds that simone had demonstrated on the phone , while telling her all about her sons job .
simone gave ramona the phone number of that cellar , but she didnt know if humik could be found there .
its better if you and your husband dont mix yourself in the guys business listen to me , finalized simone her phone talk .
meanwhile the couple was satisfied from the ads promotion course , and one day raphaella told humik i have a dream , that after well have finished our studies here ill open with somebody i know an ads office .
ill become slowly but surely a famous artists and actors agent or manager or advertiser .
there are so many theaters here , that i cant miss having a prosperous business , or find a good job as an employee .
and remember many of the producers here are jewish , and they would help me to advance , by hook or by crook .
then i will compete with them maybe you also will compete with me but so is life the length of their relationship and common work has already reached more than a month .
but one nice day humik became suspicious raphaella was trying to avoid looking at him in class .
as they were having the peepshow sex only four days a week , that day was free for both .
he had suggested to go out with her to a movie .
she said her mom had fallen in the street and broken her chin , so she , raphaella , would have no mood for a movie .
she should go to see her mother , whos at home in the bronx .
humik went out with mike that evening , but the day after raphaelle did not come to the course studies .
he thought she would meet him in the afternoon in the peepshow cellar , and asked the guard effy if he had seen her already arriving .
no , said the guy .
at that time raphaella was in a restaurant near her hired room in the bronx .
she was on the phone , telling somebody well , naitty , as you say .
she remembered that once she had mentioned to humik that name , naitty .
she had told him that the man was her ex guyfriend .
she added , that the guy would try to contact her from time to time .
he had parted from her , having big problems with himself so she had said .
now humik recollected about that , and about her telling , that the man had once visited her room .
it had happened while she was already in relationship with humik .
but we havent had sex , of course , so she said .
maybe now she needs a vacation from me , guessed the teenager humik .
he himself had been absolutely unexperienced in such relationships , that break and renew and then cut and again unite as you may say .
it was clear to him , that at the end they will separate but he had thought it would take a much longer time in the future , at least after they would have both jointly prepared themselves for the final examinations .
but maybe she doesnt bluff , and her mom was really very badly injured , said humik to himself .
i should wait .
i never asked raphaella the address of her parents , maybe i should have visited her there raphaellas ex guy was named naitty nathan freulich .
ten months before he had been demobilized from the u.s. army , after a service in korea .
he had very few relatives , except the family of his uncle , david freulich from brooklyn , and there naitty was living at the first month after his army service .
the uncle had the parkinson disease , and his old wife was holding a grocery store .
at first she had tried to put her son there as her assitant , but the guy had shown no interest nor capability in business and trading .
on the other hand , his cousine naitty , who had left the army after having a small brain quiver without getting for that any compensation or special pay from the ministry of defence had known how to be liked and sympathized by his aunt he was standing in the shop for hours , his tongue busy in talking about doing business but not business in general terms , but specifically about debits and credits and loans and payments and suppliers and customers , on goods and services , on taxes and about tricks that would avoid you from being the governments servant all your life , and so on .
in contrast to the assistant novel of bernard malmud , in which the store owner had only one daughter , the freulichs had a son , effy .
the new assistant , naitty , had driven effys feet out from the store .
it seemd that effy hadnt complained about that .
as we already know effy found a job as a guard in the famous peepshow cellar .
his cheap deals with its women , and his physical power and aggressive character had made him an ideal gate guard , ready to defend the respectable institute that had hired him , and clash with anyone who would try to break order ... at first naitty suspected that effy would be a real trouble .
why ? because naitty had found that some particular products were missing from the lists he had prepared .
but in a second thought he said to himself , that even if effy had been the thief let him steal .
these were mainly brandy bottles and soft wines for kiddush sabbath blessing .
effy was rounding in the store while he was noted on the cellars duty , and naitty was wise enough not to quarrel with him , so he had told raphaella before they separated first time .
he should keep friendship with his family , he said , as they had relied on him to continue their business and get is survive but though naitty was a serious businessman and very prompt in calculations , and thought to be very a reliable by his suppliers , it had come about that the creditors and tax authoritie s began pressuring him for his debts .
the national bank forced him , at last , to shut the grocery a plumb with a big lock was imposed on the store after all its goods had been taken out by naittys numerous creditors , represented by one lawyer , mr. buryhim .
in one of those gloomy days for naitty , effy offered him a job in the cellar , but he rejected it by two hands .
he had known what kind of women had been there , and it was not enjoyable , nor acceptable nor respectable regarding his strong religious belief .
and maybe more important he , naitty freulich would never be a hired employee again the dangerous army service had been enough for him as a hired soldier , and he received nothing as a compensation .
now he knows well prtactical business , and he would show everyone that hes going to survive and revive .
tricky naitty paid attention to one important thing , so he told his ex girlfriend after the grocerys goods confiscation by the creditors no one was coming to inspect if there was a new business in the stores location .
so , naitty contacted new suppliers , who had not known about his old debts that most of them , according to naitty had really been the old freulich debts from the past , and they helped him to renew the business .
all that would take place under a new name , with a new plateboard above the entry door ministore groise , a name which resembles grocery , but in jewish yiddish it means great ! .
the main problem was now the lock , that had been installed on the entry door of the store as said above .
so , naitty hired a lockbreaker who had done the job , and let him re enter .
i just fullfil my big commitment to god naitty was telling old jews and blacks who revisited his store .
to prosper my business , sell excellent products and in cheap honest prices .
of course sabbath or a jewish holiday are not workdays neither for me nor for any jew .
but on all other days and nights along the year , i will make my clients be satisfied by best products .
my suppliers believe now in my ability to repay any cent i owe them .
two weeks after opening of his renwed business , naitty called back raphaella steinhorn .
he knew that she had a long and very provocative behavior , which was in contrast to the orthodox jewish religion .
but naitty had an argument justifying all that , as he told his cousin effy there is a sentence in yom kippur prayers you , god , are ready to receive the repentents , and also were allowing you to pray with the criminals .
so , to pray together yes and lie together not ?
and something else good raphaella is a very beautiful doll , as you know .
she left me with my consent because i had become bankrupt .
she is a young woman who could not help me , despite she had tried , giving me two thousands , roundabout , while i had already been broke .
deeply his heart and soul , naitty was meditating about that special relationship with his girlfriend after our disconnection from each other it had come about , that she must have loved somebody else , i understand that .
because in her young age its very natural for her to be for a week very desparate , but then to feel a need for somebody who would cheer her up the good god had created young human beings to be ready for intense love and affection .
he had ordered a man and woman to get together and have the pleasures of flesh , which is mainly food and sex .
all that in order to enable human kinds perpetual growth well , maybe i repeat my arguments .
however , it was quite reasonable for raphaella to lie with some other guy .
it had not been me because of the circumstances so , i cant and i dont blame her for that .
but now i think , that as my feet are re stabilized , why shouldnt i enjoy again her pretiness and love ?
i feel also much love to her , and i am so sex attracted by her smooth brown skin and good smell and im so fascinated by her wise talk and enjoyable voice that i cant understand how i had passed the two recent months without her body trembling with mine ill also tell her , that for her ill slow the tempo of re building the store , so that at night ill be with her .
i will convince her to understand , that all the problems are over and well get married one day , even quite soon humiky was standing opposite to effy at the cellars entrance , and heard from him a just and bad message in fact , you have robbed my cousine , naitty .
effy said .
what are you talking about ?
asked humik .
you wont enter here any more , said effy , and grabbed humiks shirt , at his chest .
you turn aside !
shouted humik , or your life is in danger .
he wanted to pull out from his pocket the lead made fist , that in his childhood was owned by elkano .
kaplansky had given it to humik as a memory gift it had been one of the few remaining personal belongings of his son , elkano .
but now humik felt that he had forgotten it in his room , in the other trousers he had .
he was bewildered since the morning , feeling bad about raphaella .
if you want quarrelling , said effy , pulling back his hand from humik , you should know i have a licensed pistol .
i am not afraid of your threatening .
okey , humik was quite whispering , well see .
now he discerned a small open knife in effys fist .
it was flashing in the lamps red light of the running electric letters on the peepcellar ads plateboard .
humik retreated , and effy indicated him to halt .
wait a moment , he said , you know that raphaella is jewish .
yes , of course , said humik im jewish too .
im even an israeli .
oh , thats good , said effy , if so you will be able to help me while ill come to israel .
maybe with my cousine , naitty .
wait , im not yet going to return there , said humik .
well , i dont hurry there either but one day , you know naitty delays me .
he refuses to emigrate , having a business here .
but now as raphaella returns to him , ill try to convince them both .
i tell you , he said with a smile , that i was jealous of you , having such a girl as raphaella .
for one hour with her in the peepshow room , i would have paid a hundred or more .
what dyou say about that ?
is it worth ?
youll dream about it , shouted humik , you , disgusting pig !
okey .
naitty himself would let me have an hour with her so , if you return to israel remember me .
ill meet you there one day .
i just want you to know that i am not your enemy .
humik understood he should leave the place .
he rushed to the bus station , then took the subway to raphaellas flat .
she was not at home , and he knew that effy hadnt lied to him .
all is over with raphaella .
she is now in naittys store .
her heart is full of enthusiastic impression from what she sees there , listening to her old boyfriends talk about his plan and vision regarding his business and regarding her , his beloved maiden meidl so he was used to call her in yiddish , his mothers tongue who will forever blossom in his heart all that tackle of humik with effy was naittys tricky plot .
one evening he also investigated effy if raphaella had been always with the same guy on the carpet of the cellar .
effy approved , that he had not seen any other guy with her .
so ive thought , said nathan .
shes that kind of a good girl , who stick to a certain guy only .
like me she is also very afraid from veneral diseases , you know ? and regarding you , effy , i recommend you to wear the preservative always , because you cant imagine what is a gonorrhea or syphilis .
i had seen such sick guys in the army .
dont be frightened , but as your cousine i beg you , for the sake of our familys purity please get a medical blood check .
and immediately stop fucking whores with your own penis skin touching them .
i know its difficult , but dont shame yourself and our god .
naitty was an experienced and mature man .
raphaellas internal radio brodcasted the following facts to her mind and heart , since the day that naitty had brought her back to him she would not be able to live respectfully neither from her work in the cellar nor from her course , which is only theoretic .
naitty will do what is necessary , and will base his new business very smartly .
she said to herself .
he promised , even sworn , that he would be ready to marry me as soon as his debts are over , now only twenty thousands , he said , not a big deal .
he is mad about my amazing body and my super witty mind , and the way i talk about daily events and express my ideas .
he says i have a potential to be also a phenomenom for the business .
the conspiracy had taken place behind humiks back .
at the first moment of recognizing that , he blamed himself .
he , the super suspicious guy , had been trapped .
he wanted just to finish the course with raphaella and then separate , and where will he now find such an attractive woman ?
but thats not the real problem .
im having an unsolved riddle with the hiding god .
he makes me suffer , even not physically .
yes , he has made me a microbic existance , i cant agree with that ...
but i should not pity my soul .
i have to be patient as an iron closed gate , waiting for one who will open it .
or like an ancient precoius stone waiting for some pretty woman to wear it .
nice images i do have .
or are they just hollowed metaphors ?
his lips began buzzing an isreali poem that became quite musical song , well known at these days.maybe somebody had translated it , and brought it to america .
or vice versa perhaps some israeli had copied it from america i m just a modest simple man , im a turtle , travelling on a van .
i have killed nobody with an ax , i just want to live an pay my tax .
i was strolling all along the land , nobody stretched me his hand , please , show my way on the map , otherwise ill fall in a deep trap .
because my head , oh my head , from nervous tension turns red , my blood is boiling in my vein , my brain is dizzy all looks like in vain .
but i have not lived in vain till now said humik to himself .
i miss my homeland , thats the problem with me .
i am not from here .
i am pitiful about myself , because i pity the suffering in my country , which is not america .
kaplansky and my mother have known europe in their childhood .
they hate to recall the past , they had just run out of it .
i was born in a country that was on fire , and its people had succeeded to survive its society rendered me a feeling of homeliness .
i must release my soul from that feeling of deserting the people whom i had loved .
i cant bear the idea that i had let them struggle without me .
my power is only of a single human being , i know .
but i feel deep in my heart that i am important there , and that my soul will not rest till i arrive back there and tailor my dress that had been cut by solomon and his wife .
.
.
i recall their bereavement , i understand it .
i have much participated in their sorrow .
but i am different from them , in that strange impetus pushing me backward and commanding me not to escape from my past .
maybe im a masochist , in the broad meaning of that definition .
humik then recollected many of the most enjoyble and most horrible chapters of his past part two chapter 9 nahumik mounted the horse without the help of his older friend , the youth elkano , who praised him for that..
he also permitted the boy to ride a few steps by himself , while he , elkano , was walking beside the horse and still holding the reins in his hands , leading it straight forward .
the boy said he was not afraid at all and asked to let him drive slowly by himself .
but the guy suddenly said , that they should report about their voyages to nahumiks mother .
she must know about these riding lessons and approve it .
elkano reckoned that also he himself should see her , having an errand from his father , photographer kaplansky .
the man recollected that ramona , nahumiks mom , had requested him to produce for her an extended picture of her family , who had been killed by the nazis in europe if your mother is still interested in that , said the guy elkano , shell hand you the original photos , and my father can also elaborate them a little bit .
he has his skill for that its called an artistic extension of a picture .
in that evening ramona was standing at the window of the boys room .
she was wrapped in her flowers gown and was looking at her courtyard gate as her son and his grown up friend enterd it .
she wondered .
hardly she could identify who was the guy , and did not understand what was his connection to her son nahumik , who has just knocked at the door .
hello , mom , said the boy , when she opened .
ramona gazed at elkano quite a long time , surveying his figure from face to feet .
she only turned to her son , when he said this is elkano , the son of photographer kaplansky .
have you found more photos , that ive forgotten to take ?
ramona asked elkano .
no , answered nahumik instead of the guy , we have both arrived to tell you , that he teaches me riding his horse .
ive also arrived to ask something .
interfered elkano , my pa told me , that once you had wanted to extend your late parents photos but he hasnt yet received those .
oh , thank you for asking .
first , however , i have to organize the stuff in my old album .
i havent yet found the time for that .
you need nerves for looking back to the sad past .
i can understand that .
said elkano .
after a short intermission he added so , well find another time for that .
thank you for trying to teach nahumik .
but maybe its too early ?
hes ten years only .
i learned to ride in this age , too , elkano smiled that brought a smile to ramonas face too .
he remembered that she was just as beautiful as he saw her in the photo that his father had sent before to her with nahumik .
since that day , elkano has decided he would like to see her in real life and talk to her .
and here she is , interesting and fascinating .
he doesnt know why .
he is almost eighteen .
well , he doesnt like the idea that young girls in his age know only to laugh .
i would testify about myself , thought elkano , that im quite a serious fellow , maybe too serious for those joyful girls .
or i havent yet got acquainted with too many .
lets sit in the kitchen , he heard ramona telling him .
she pointed on the low table , made of simple rough wood .
it was covered with a small flowered coversheet and surrounded by three chairs .
youll be able to talk about books , said the boy , while they were sitting to chat .
ma , ive told elkano that you read a lot , borrowing books in the public library .
i was doing that myself , told her elkano , till a year ago .
i also go to see movies in our theater here , remarked ramona , with woman friends .
one is a widow like me .
elkano asked a cup of water and she brought him .
a few months ago , he said .
i watched a lot of movies .
i was mobilized to a group of guys , having volunteered to work in a kibbutz for a while .
but i was soon fed up .
we saw many cowboy movies , once a week at least .
at first i thought that to be in a kibbutz would be okey for me , but soon i realized that i like my privacy .
when im within a group something is convulsing inside my stomach .
so i returned to be my papas assistant .
it seems like photographing is interesting you , she said .
yes , sometimes i dare to imagine that one day ill produce and create a film by myself .
i have yet to learn a lot about that but its so far .
youve to do it in america and i am living here , in a small and far country .
once ive sent a postcard to actor clark geible .
he had sent me his autograph , which enjoyed me very much !
nahumik felt that elkanos breath has become short .
elkano was looking at nahumiks mother , and it seemed like he was a little embarassed .
have you really practiced riding today ?
ramona asked her son , warmly touching his hair .
we did not gallop , said elkano , but we were feeling very well up there , on the horseback .
was it so ?
elkano turned his face to nahumik , who nodded .
ramona was looking at her son and then at the visitor .
she suddenly felt a strange sweetness in her mouth and heart .
if she re reckons this feeling , maybe she should forget meeting the guy .
why has he won her heart ?
she wont permit this to happen .
he is acting in quite a hutzpa , hes an audacious guy !
but without that quality not much will occur in humankind .
and elkano is playing with her sentiments quite sensitively , even cunningly .
you cant bring the dead to resurrection , he said , reminding her about the photos for which he had come , but to remember them is our duty .
isnt it so ?
when elkano went home , nahumik was lying on the sofa , and ramona reckoned to herself that she had behaved properly with elkano .
she will become friendly with anybody she would like .
no man or woman has the right to criticize her steps and motives she was feeling the blood pressure in her veins .
why has she suddenly become irritated ?
is it embarassment , or hidden fear ?
now , in her bed at night , thoughts are sawing her soul .
in order to relax for a while , she will stretch her hand and bring from the small chest of drawers a new russian novel that she has bought .
the cold landscapes described there , are cooling the fire in her soul next morning ramona woke up later than usual .
her son went to school without waking her .
she recalled about elkanos visit .
it may be interesting what the guy was feeling about her .
maybe he , like me now is thinking about the moments that we have passed together .
is he trying to understand my sadness and wandering soul , that was looking from my eyes ?
his young body is attracted by a female like me .
and i know , that there is no man who is over thirty in this small town , that will be fit for me .
i know them all theyre simple people , that i cant have any smart and intelligent talk with .
and very few non married are there at all efry the gardener , or the lame tishbyin comparison with other men that i know elkano is one , though so young who i could have loved no , i hesitate to say that elkano thought about her very kindly indeed .
if the bad events of her past had not happened , of course she wouldnt even look at me .
but nowher big disaster has not decreased her beauty and womanish manners .
she is keeping her figure , though the skin of her cheeks has lost some softness shes about thirty .
but what did you want ?
that she would become seventeen years old again ?
you dont have now any girl who will be your sweetheart , and you miss a mother !
your mom had died in your younghood , of an acute sickness .
it has given you strength to appreciate lifeand love every passing away moment .
this is what you are , elkano kaplansky .
i havent yet seen ramona in my dream , he added to himself .
but since the first moment i saw her in the photo , that my pa had shown me , i remembered her .
she was coming with her husband to our shop some years ago .
my father took a photo of both together , and the background to it was the big picture of a blooming almond tree , set up in our store .
i was still a teenager then .
now im not so shy .
i have to dare hopefully i may get an interesting experience with this fascinating woman .
chapter 10 on tuesday ramona sent nahumik to the photographer , with two small family pictures that she wanted to extend and elaborate .
now elkano had an argument to visit her at home shes alone now .
her son has just said that he was going to his rabbis synagogue , studying gemorah talmud with him .
elkano combed his nice hair , and rushed to ramona .
having arrived , he gazed at the kitchens wall it was wet and grey .
how long havent you whitewashed these walls ?
asked elkano .
oh , more than four years , answered ramona .
but it doesnt matter for me .
since the day i heard about my husbands death , i havent renewed here anything .
on the first days i even hadnt cleaned the floor , so shocked i was .
life must continue .
thats natures law , said elkano , my late mother had told me that before shed died .
it was as if i wanted that nothing would move here , mentioned ramona , it was awful for me .
i have no relatives here , in the country , except my son .
my husband had also lost all his family in shoah .
we came here two years before the world war .
we had been lucky to escape from europe before all the trouble happened .
he decided to mobilized here , in israel to the british army , thinking he would go to europe to rescue our families .
afterward ive heard that no one remained alive .
so you have remained alone to raise nahumik , said elkano , and with these hens coops did you agree with full heart , that your husband would leave you , and become a soldier ?
mainly bachelors used to volunteer and be mobilized .
what a question is this ?
many married men did like my husband , judah !
it was self understandable in those days .
we had known that the jews in europe were in great danger .
the whole thing suddenly seems to be far , but all happened only three four years ago .
his military command car was mined in italy .
he was killed with two others .
i dont know how i had the strength to continue .
i was weeping for hours , fulfilling my duty in this small farm like automatically .
i had to feed the chicken .
it was good for my soul to be working hard .
if you dont take care of the small animals theyll die and you know you like them to be living .
but in the first days it was difficult , as everything in this courtyard had reminded my husband to me .
my father had known your husband .
t was in the good old days , said elkano , he told me that .
once he invited him to take a photo of him while cultivating the orchard , in which he was working .
i have never told nahumik , that his father had another job .
i mean except our hens coops , said ramona .
one work , elkano said , could not afford for feeding a family .
it was a part time work of my husband .
most of his time and effort he devoted to taking care of the chickens , and of the small fruits trees in our garden .
every tree and flower reminded me his good , caring , strong hands .
yes , i hoped he would return lets stop talking about the past , said elkano , almost whispering , i invite you to watch a film with me , in the local cinema house .
yes still this evening .
okey .
ill place a note to the boy , that i have gone there with a woman friend .
well go out and watch the first show , that is early at seven p.m. , said elkano .
well intentionally miss the moviton fox news journal , said ramona , because if we show ourselves in the cinema light everybody will soon gossip .
quite reasonable , said elkano , smiling .
ill just cut a few vegetables and prepare dinner for nahumik .
in the theaters darkness elkano didnt touch her , but their eyes met many times .
it was when olivia de havilland was kissing with some man on the screen .
they were inside a carriage , chased by indian horse riders , shooting arrows and screaming .
the indians had colored feathures on their heads , and tatoos were drawn on their bodies .
the sheriff of a small town was riding a horseback with one of them , his hands tied with ropes .
suddenly this indian captor galloped his horse aside , stabbed the sheriif in his back , and threw out his corpse , down a hill .
the sight of blood was frightening some young women within the watchers , and they were grabbing their husbands or boyfriends hands in awe .
then came white horseriders of tyron power to the help of the imprisoned girl .
a fight was taking place between them and the indians .
it would end with a victory of the guns and canons of the joyfull white men over the primitive indians .
said ramona .
in the movies intermission the couple went out to the small smoking square .
an acquaintance of ramona looked at her in suspect , discerning shes alone elkano was not standing far away and she was gazing toward him .
he was smoking , looking around , and not approaching any one he had known .
when the bell rang for the screening renewal both were rushing to their seats it was again in the darkness .
on their way home , elkano asked how the boy had reacted to his fathers death .
he was a little child , said ramona .
but he was conscious that he would have a special responsibility to help me in whatever he could .
and he knew how difficult was my mental condition .
she added that the boy caught her weeping , three times .
once i vomitted near the hens coops , she told elkano , and nahumik came thereby .
he asked me why i had i cried .
by that he caused me to restrain myself .
what did he say to you ?
asked elkano .
that he should be be considerate with my weeping please try to do it less he said , and i smoothed his hair , and kissed him by his cheeksand he found an argument to stop me crying the hens are also listening to you , he said .
they will stop to lay eggs , discerning that their lady owner is sad .
elaknos eyes also became quite wet , and ramona discerned that .
your face has changed to be sad , because of me. she rebuked , looking at his eyes in the pale light of the street lamps .
you are not a child , she said , arent you ?
forget my stories .
they were going back to her home , trying to pass in darkness and under trees pale shadows .
children or youths were strolling around in that warm evening .
she said hopefully nobody will gossip , and their stealing succeeded .
they felt no one had seen them .
they were sitting again in ramonas kitchen , after she had peeped to the boys room , discerning he was asleep .
nahumik was dressed with his sportive shorts and upper tricko t shirt ...
but he was not really asleep he looked with half open eyes at his mom , and only after being sure hes seen her he soon fell fully asleep .
while ramona was with her son , elkano remained in the kitchen and checked his behavior to his grown up lady friend , as he was calling ramona , while speaking to himself .
she had been even more charming while she was talking about her suffer .
another woman would have been folding down in her situation , but she had been strong .
so i feel .
now she is already baking two green apples in her oven , and while well eat it with suger cubes , shell be talking about the movies she had used to watch .
with my late husband , ramona said , i was hardly attending theater .
but since he went to the jewish brigade of the british army ive wanted to disconnect from the daily difficulties for some hours .
i have become almost addicted to the movies long live america of the gangsters and cowboys .
bravo , france of the secret love affairs what level of forgetfulness you would reach by watching a kissing couple ?
your affection is swept with the post carriage being kidnapped and you become happy while the girl there is almost being rescued by her strong father , but no !
he leaves the abductors chasing , as he is now searching her sweetheart , who has disappeared .
at the end it becomes clear , that the girl wasnt held by the indians whop were paid by a professional abductor , demanding ransom !
so complicated as she was talking , she saw on elkanos face he had become tired .
oh , you are yawning , she said .
maybe her talk was boring him , while she had been quite complaining about her past .
if its comfortable for you , she said , you can visit me tomorrow , at nine or ten in the morning .
youll watch me feeding the chicken and collecting the eggs .
please take care not to be seen , you understand ?
you are welcome !
i would like to kiss your hand , like gentlemen in europe .
i watched that in many films , he said .
adieu , he added .
his heart was pounding like galloping horses hooves next morning elkano told ramona about his hesitations , regarding the illegal underground youths that he had met .
she said she wont consult him , as she honored her husbands joining the army to save the jews in europe .
there were very few married men among them , but she didnt try to hold judah at home .
yes from time to time she was angry he had made her become a widow too early .
elkano and ramona were standing at the henscoops , and he was helping her to fill the drinking troughs .
soon the hens were coming close , putting their beaks into the water .
then they raised their heads , while lifting their nice cocks combs , to slip the liquid smoothly into their stomach .
and again they were drinking a few drops and walking further on , strolling around on the ground .
they are attracted to the water like me , a young man , to a girl woman like you , remarked elkano , waving to a hen .
as he was smiling , his white teeth flickered in the sun that was beaming on the sky .
ramona put down the hen by her hand , and soon entered her house with elkano .
they were seated on the sofa in the living room , gave hands and advanced their faces to each other .
then they caressed one the face of the other and began kissing .
his face have beamed and she noticed it .
she told him she did not believe it had been his first kiss .
so why he is reddening ? and if he would chose to become a photographer in holywood he will have to kiss many women .
theyll behave like her .
he is a man of well shaped body and handsome face .
he could be also an actor , if he wanted .
a protagonist like tyron power or erol flynn or johnny weissmuller .
yes , in her opinion hes young and not less handsome than these films stars .
you laugh at me , he said .
you know ill be fit for going abroad and try to be a star only after the war , that will be here .
what ?
asked ramona , why would you think about a war ?
you read the newspapers like me , he said .
yes , i also listen to the radio .
but i dont think about fighting we have many signs , he said , that a war will come within a few months .
i have a dreadful feeling .
maybe its my own personal problem , that i feel so bad .
horror is hanging over my head .
maybe my father has to be blamed for that .
he is pessimistic .
i dont believe it has come to you from him , this gloomy feeling .
ramona said , maybe its since your mothers death .
i dont know , said elkano , it has been within me many years .
but i am strong , just facing a realistic view .
they kissed with enormous desire .
he pulled out her shirt and bra .
her fingers were removing the belt of her skirt and underwear , and he felt she couldnt hold herself any more .
her eyes were shut and her legs were open to him in a joyful move .
his strong hands were caressing her hair , and his palms smoothly touched her breasts and then dropped to her pudenda and she moaned in a pain of bliss .
you enter me smoothly , she said with a short laugh , like a sharp nail to a soft piece of wood .
then well be moving around in a wonderland and travelling in an unknown and unsurpassed time .
she felt his tongue licking her spinal column , and she wondered how he had known that it was causing her such an orgastic joy he is so young , she thought .
maybe he had women lovers in his past .
could it be that they were experienced in sex ?
if not maybe he had read about it in books , or saw it in phornographic pictures , that a photographer may hold in his drawers .
afterwards elkano was lying beside ramona on her sofa , caressing her hair .
she does not have a long braid , like most of the young women around .
she attracts me by her whole existence and well structured figure and her wise smile , by her fine hair and smooth skin .
and maybe im morbidly attracted by her optimistic sadness , i would call it her body is so nice in its innocent nakedness , and it should not be wasted without rendering a man like me full enjoyment .
my presence makes her have some minutes of pure hapiness of trying to escape from the grey existance so she says .
she heard him saying something like your femininity is so beaming out from your talking and chatting and laughing and joking about yourself .
then he asked about her the source of name .
where does it come from ? they were rising from the sofa , after love making .
the word rimon is mentioned in the holy bible , she said , its a pomegranate .
it is stated in song of solomon your temple is nice as a pomegranate so says the young man to his lover mistress .
my papa , who was a rabbi , gave this name to me , interpreting it as the old wise talmudists had taught pomegranate is a metaphor for torah and wisdom , and not for something erotic like a breast or a womans head .
the songs of king solomons book is full of love metaphors and has erotic descriptions and images in its poetry , but the old jewish interperters have explained the physical desire described in it , as the tight connection like sexual intercourse between god and his beloved one , the israeli maiden .
the pomegranade for me is a womans breast , even not a heads temple , laughed elkano , but i accept also the rabinical interpretation now i understand youve sent nahumik to study with that rabbi , so that the traditional culture wont be forgotten in your family ramona noded , and said you have a literary style while talking to me , elkano .
i like it .
by the way this rabbi would persuade nahumik to believe in providence , in godd taking care of everybody .
dyou believe ?
not so much , answered ramona , but sometime i believe that he did not intend to kill my husband it means , that in my case i am embarassed by gods behavior .
maybe god wanted to keep him alive but failed .
and then he , the almighty , was weeping shortly , so i believe .
but soon he passed to weep about the other millions of the wars victims .
so , he has left only me to continue weeping about my dead husband .
tears filled her eyes , but she strengthened immediately .
she went to her bedroom and returned with a good smelling perfume .
she appologized of not doing that before , and stretched her hand to elkano , to part .
he looked at her finger nails , that were not made , nor colored , and he knew that her hard working with the hens would not permit her a lot of time for caring about her body .
but it doesnt matter then he asked if she had known the perfumes name .
it should be of a well known firm .
ramona said its poesie , like poetry in english .
my husband had bought it in the nafi , the british army subsidized stores for the soldiers families .
its bottle was hiding somewhere and only this week , after youve come , i discerned it again .
i have decided to use it daily .
it would partly reject the smell of hens excreta from my body .
you dont like the hens so much , he said , but you depend on them for your earning .
i was used to work with them , but sometimes i say enough and suddenly i hate to feel the dirt , while holding or touching them lets forget that , elkano .
i can not change my life style now .
i am not a lady from the movies , young man .
dyou understand that ?
i well understand , he said .
as i understand , that you cant believe me well be soon facing a war here .
you see a black picture without a justification .
its so negative to think like this , and become mister walking apocalipse !
she thought he did not quite understand what it had meant .
he just looked at her for a moment , but then commented the one who does not understand what ive told you is hiding the truth , ramona .
my pa thinks that the worst will come .
he tries to tell me , that he had lost all his family in the world war .
so he wouldnt like to lose me also once he wept , while looking at me .
it will be like hell here he said .
please , stop talking about that , said ramona , im afraid the words have a power to make events happen .
she saw that a tear was hanging on his left eye .
he is sad , she said to herself .
two young human beings that were wondering about the pleasure that has just wrapped them together , and now everyone is wrapped again by his solitude .
but maybe its only because he is pitying my condition of a young woman with a child .
this situation will pass , she said suddenly , to herself and to him as well , i mean my sadness , and yours , and the inability to move life further on , and change it .
i thank you for all your love , ramona , he said , and i thank you for talking with me so wisely and sincerely .
we reveal the truth together .
thousand words or their substitutes , he said , wont tell how i have felt today with you .
you talk about substitute words , she mentioned , and yesterday my son asked me what did the word substitute exactly mean .
his rabbi had told him that everything in the world has its substitute except a wise rabbi that had died .
so , he warned his pupils not to mourn too much and not to be too sad about the current or coming political and national events .
the rabbis elder boys , so told her son , read the news that were published in the jewish newspapers about the so called underground israeli youths , that were sentenced to death by the british .
a cycle of bloody killings is impending .
chapter 11 one evening elkano came to ramona , telling that the hagana organization , to which he had been committed , was in a need of weapons .
elkao promised to obtain some , but who knows how .
to rob a bank is an easy act , he said , but to bring arms we can only by robbing the british , and they would kill us for that..
i know something , said ramona .
she ordered nahumik to bring the long ladder from the courtyard .
elkano wondered what she had intended to offer him by the ladder , and nahumik himself didnt know .
she brought a glass of tea to the kitchens table , at which he was seated , and wanted to mix milk in it .
but elkano said he had hated milk since his babyuhood .
his mother had told him that .
you are like nahumik in that , ramona said .
but you certainly love butter made of milk .
he nodded and she brought a piece of bread and smeared butter on it .
while he was eating and looking at her moving around , the boy was heard dragging the big ladder .
he brought it inside the house , and ramona told him to set it up below the upper small store , above the kitchens door .
you can climb there , she pointed out to elkano , and try to bring down an old suitcase .
it had been lying there since my late husband brought it with other things from our native homes .
ten years have passed since we arrived here , in palestine .
we were used to call it eretz israel .
elkano promptly climbed the ladder , and his hand opened the small wicket .
he was searching inside the small over store .
quite a darkness there , he said , his head down , but now i see two orange boxes .
in one of them an old dusty long folded coat the other is empty .
there should be something else , ramona said .
ah , an old suitcase .
can you reach it with your fingers ?
not yet .
ill lift myself into the narrow place .
elkanos elbows were sent forward .
sustaing his weight while he had pushed his upper body inside , his palms already reached the suitcaes , grabbed it and dragged it toward his chest .
then he slipped with it outside and down .
he shouted to the boy , who was waiting under the ladder , to move aside .
being already on the floor , elkano opened the old suitcase , peeped inside and said that there had been some rugs , and two round tin cans .
he re closed the suitcase and threw it on the floor .
oops , cried ramona , be cautious , man .
we should clean there above very thoroughly , said elkano , i have seen a mouse rambling on my hand .
ramona has already reopened the suitcase .
elkano was still standing near the ladder and cleaning his dress from the dust .
he was smiling to the ramona and son , while they were looking at a small box inside the suitcase and pulling out a small toy train .
nahumik remembered it from his childhood .
his pa stored it for him or for a brother , that would be born one day .
but what are these tin cans here ?
plum jam is written on their yellow , worn out labels .
why are you holding these antiquities here ?
asked elkano , suspecting that there was some mystery in these cans .
they are hermetically closed , she said , but my dear husband arranged them so , that they will be filled with greeze , not jam .
ramona ran aside to the front door and was locking it from inside .
she rushed to the kitchen and brought a tin opener .
while elkanos has already opened the can , nahumik found another toy of his childhood a long python it was folded there , itss grey green colors body and yellow eyes frightened him in his childhood .
at this point of time elkano peeped inside the tin can in the fatness of the brown greeze he saw a barrel of a firearm , but he still wasnt sure of that .
then he saw some screws and a small pistols nagazine , and surveyed them in pleasure and interest .
i guess that the handle and other accessories are in the second can , he said loudly and opened the other one .
to who should i give all that if not to you ?
ramona said .
he began to assemble the weapon .
still sticky and wet , but a true parabelum , he said , and pulled the trigger with a click .
a spring is broken there , but i dont mind .
itll not fire in automat mode .
you saw that ive tried a single bullet mode .
o.k .
at that night ramona suddenly felt that a war was approaching .
her sleep hadnt come , and she was lying on her bed , meditating and bewildered she knows that she is a stong personality , but sometimes she has a feeling of self accusation about her relationship with the guy .
she has been trapped in the net of love .
maybe shell be disappointed .
but she can view all those events from above , cooly .
she knows that everything will pass , and life will continue as ever for so many human beings .
she knows all that from her literature studies in the university of prague .
chapter 12 it was a very early hour in a cold morning .
ramona has waked up her son , nahumik , telling him we have got an independent state !
ive heard that in the radio the united nations voted for two new states would be established here .
nahumik hardly knew that the jewish israelis had not had a state before , and didnt quite understand how his mom heard at night that some nations gathered to vote about such a vague issue .
he knew that he had been living in a country ruled by a british mandate , and there were many british soldiers and cops strolling by foot and patrolling with command cars and jeeps all over the country .
there were also some arab cops and jewish militia men called gaffirs the word maybe taken from an indian word and now his mom has said that all that is finished .
we will have our own army and other forces , added ramona , and the british will leave us .
we should not rejoice much about this news , because maybe we will have a war with the arabs , who dont agree to divide the country .
they want it all .
in the afternoon nahumik went as usual to his rabbi , to learn about an old woman , who had three daughters .
an enemy had come to the country .
he imprisoned her and one of her daughters .
a second daughter escaped , and the third got killed , but her baby remained alive .
who will inherit the property of the deceased daughter ?
the baby ?
talmud book , boba metsiaah , page 39 the rabbi stopped reading and explaining , and raised his voice i must tell you something , he said , last night the the atheist jews have received a confirmation from some nations to declare and establish a jewish regime here our old wise rabbis had already said messiah , son of david , wont come till all the countrys rulers will be fully changed to be non believers .
so there is a chance for the zionists to make a kingdom here .
oy vey , god almighty !
when will you send us the true messiah , king davids seed ?
why is the rabbi so excited , like my mom ? nahumik asked himself .
maybe they fear that soon will be many clashes here .
the rabbis newspaper is telling already that here and there arabs are attacking israeli jewish vehicles , and the british are doing nothing to avoid it .
okey , pupils , said rabbi aaron , we should return to our study .
the newspaper is a waste of time and paper together .
chapter 13 photographer kaplansky , who was dwelling with his only son elkano , in the second floor of the brown house , near mike nahumiks friend , pulled the wallet out of his pocket .
he issued some blue and green mandatorial paper money , of fifty and hundred palestinian erets israeli pounds sterling .
it was while elkano was preparing dinner for them both cocumbers and tomatos and onion salad mixed with olives oil with pepper spice .
when the guy put the plate on the table , he discerned the money and pretended not to understand his fathers intention .
take that , said solomon kaplansky to his only son , pointing on the colored pieces and and pushing the money toward elkanos hands , and sail out of this country .
ive heard from a very famous leader in the israeli labor party a devastating war is impending .
its unavoidable .
he raised his baritone voice they will take you to the jewish army .
elkano pushed away the money .
he was angry , but didnt show it .
youre a fool .
a young man has to know how and why to listen to older people , be active to safeguard himself , and rescue his skin to remain alive .
you dont know nor imagine what a war is .
maybe youre not afraid of it .
but take your chance , my son .
go to haifa port and leave the country , you should do that .
enough , papa ! , said elkano , i know that you are not satisfied with my behavior because ive told you that i am in love with a grown up widow .
and shes older than myself .
you want me to get rid of her in that manner .
is it so ?
absolutely not , said kaplansky .
it is not my business , even if you marry her of course not here , in our town .
but im very anxious about your remaining in this cursed land , understand ?
my beloved nice baby , he groaned and weeped for tfive seconds , then embraced his son and kissed him .
kaplanskys eyes were still wet .
you dont know , but recently i hardly can sleep .
because i am so anxious about you .
i have also some pain in my chest .
as something is stuck in my throat and lungs .
no , papa , elkano said in a vehement , but weak voice .
he gathered the paper money and put it back into his fathers pocket .
even if you stand on your head i would not leave this country , he said audaciously , ill survive , even if the war will break .
but we dont see it yet .
why worry ?
chapter 14 elkano was mobilized a few days afterward .
his brigade was called alexandrony who knows why ?
maybe the soldiers will have to capture many lands , like alexander macedonian .
one day elkano came to ramonas house , dressed in khaki uniform and a woolen wintry stocking hat on his head .
we have all kinds of uniforms there he told ramona , our men have purchased that secretly from armies of many nations .
he was sitting in the kitchen with the mother and her son , drinking coffee and eating apples pie .
the boy had many questions to ask what exactly the soldiers were doing in the border ?
is there no fence in the frontline ?
the palestinian arabs are still allowed to travel to tel aviv .
why are you only patrolling and keeping the area from armed intruders ?
and what will happen with your horse when you will be moving far from here ?
youve not you are right , answered elkano , i will soon leave the eastern front , and maybe go far , to the jerusalem way front .
but the horse will remain in my pas stable .
hell take care of it !
but cant you take it with you ?
we see things like that in the movies , said the boy .
no .
first of all my pa would use it from time to time .
said elkano .
then he asked about the chicken and the eggs and the new movies , that ramona has seen last month .
before you leave , said the boy , i have a request regarding the horse .
can you tell your pa to permit me to ride once a week ?
of course , said elkano , why not ?
ill ride only around the big brown house , said nahumik .
your papa should not think that ill gallop it crazily .
come with me straight forward to him , said elkano .
you should promise him to come always after your school hours , at noon when my pa closes his photo shop .
so , he can watch you .
after elkano had left with the boy , ramona became frustrated .
my spirit is under the floor she mumbled bitterly to herself , thinking why a nervous tremble is passing through her limbs .
its not our last meeting , she said loudly , as to strengthen her confidence , that shell soon see elkano again .
the guy has asked such a few questions about her and even about nahumik .
as if he was not interested any more in their regular life .
yes , he asked if the nahumik and his classmates had written a composition about the war but he didnt ask what the rabbi had said about the current events elkano told her recently , that he hated the idea of holy books studies .
he believed in what the eyes saw and what you could touch , in the material aspect of the universe .
within a few years , he said , science will know evetything , without gods interference in the cosmos , and in mankinds life .
and we should take what pure nature has rendered to us .
enjoy the beauty and the plenty of nice , tasty things and aspire to fulfill what our senses lead us to .
elkano did not think about himself as a peculiar pleasures chaser .
in one thing he was sure , even if there was a god he would not create his creatures only for the purpose to be worshipped and prayed day and night , with all those religious ceremonies , that never end .
i have quite a quite different belief , she had told elkano in one of their first rare meetings .
i seem just to believe in a sublime force , which is not simply mere nature though maybe i would have liked to feel as a free bee , flying rolling around from flower to flower , like you will be one day or if i could be like brett , the antagonist in hemigways book , that ive recently read .
its called fiesta the sun also rises .
beautiful brett is courted by three men at least .
theyre having artistic souls and her sex appeal plays with their attraction to her beauty and sexuality maltreating them to the end she falls in a sensational sexual love with a bullfighter , disconnects from the artists fans company , and lying with the torrero in a hotel in madric making all of them angry , which she doesnt mind .
oh , sometime i think i can envy her shes in my age , or a little older .
but she has no kid , that i do on their way to kaplanskys house , elkano revealed to nahumik that next morning hed go with the army to a dangerous activity .
the boy became afraid , but didnt show it .
they entered kaplanskys apartment .
the photographer was busy in reading the evening newspaper .
elkano asked him to permit the boy to ride the horse , when he would be out and his father spoke loudly , so that nahumik would also hear no problem .
i hope the boy will be a horse rider like general pilsudsky , whom i saw once in poland .
then ill take a nice photograph of him .
two days after that elkano returned to his fathers home , telling him he was among the soldiers who had captured two arab villages in front of their town .
he was wearing the woolen khaki hat and his face was smeared with mud .
bruises were covering his forehead and arms .
he told kaplansky , that he and his collegues had given a good fight to the enemy , using hand grenades , sten small arms , and elkano was first time using a german m.g.schpandau .
this means a heavy machine gun , with a firing tempo of hundreds bullets per minute .
ah , what a bliss you feel holding that weapon tight to your arm , and the backpush hits your shoulder while you are shootingtwo soldiers were killed in that attack .
one of them was hit by a bullet in his lung .
we couldnt pull it out of him afterward elkano took a shower , and just went to the stable and pulled the horse out of it .
he put the saddle on its back , mounted it and began galloping outside the town , wishing to forget everything .
he told himself he should not arrive in ramonas house .
he refuses to let her meet him and then get into stress and sadness .
it wouldnt be fair .
elkano told his father to tell ramona if she asks about him that he had come home for only a few seconds , just to say hello and that a jeep was waiting for him to get back to the frontline .
chapter 15 next week at noon nahumik knocked at the photographer apartments door .
kaplansky opened it and told the boy please , come in .
ill just finish my meal , and well both go to the stable .
nahumik was seated on the mans armchair , beside a round table .
on its glass cover were scattered some photos .
the boy discerned an album near them according to the flashing paper and good color of the photos , he knew that the pictures were new ones , having been shot not long ago .
he bent to the album to look at it closer .
he saw elkano standing there with a friend from his adolescence .
both were wearing sea shorts .
it was in a summer camp , who knows where .
and here he is in anothr photo already a soldier , with some warriors .
maybe he had just brought it home last month .
and here he is on the horse why had elkano gathered these pictures and given them to his pa ?
he was worried , i think .
solomon kaplansky needed these pictures to look at his sons figure , while he would be strongly longing for elkanoknowing that he had left his home for an unknown length of time .
not forever .
am i sure about that ? nahumik asked himeslf , and his heart was beating from fear .
he closed the album immediately , and became angry at himself for his negative thoughts about his grown up friend .
the photographer and nahumik went out to the stable .
the horse turned his head to the boy and was looking in suspect at him and at his owner .
then he stamped the earth by his hooves .
soon his nostrills blew out the air and looked in sympathy at the boy .
the horse was not connected to his reins , as the stable had been closed till that moment .
now kaplansky put the harness to its mouth , and gave the reins to nahumik .
he pulled out the saddle , that was put in the corner , in an oranges empty box .
kaplansky set the saddle on the horseback and told the boy lets take it outside , there youll begin riding .
ill take care you see two houses nearby , without a fence between them ?
so , you can ride along , without fear , up to the far away fence .
but dont tread a chicken on your way .
our neighbor bleiberg is a wrathful person .
he may hit you .
the photographer was looking at nahumik , while he was mounting the horse .
already seated on its saddle he began riding , and kaplansky was running for a while after the horse , till the rider nahumik was next to the far fence behind which was a street .
then the boy returned riding on the horseback and kaplansky was walking again at his side .
the boy said he would be riding in that way three more times and his friends father left him to ride alone .
nahumik imagined that the horse was telling him something in timid voice if elkano would have known that you had been afraid to ride it said he would laugh at you so , i am decisive to be a real horse rider , like the cowboys in the films .
i was trained by elkano to gallop speedily forty kilometers per hour .
okey , thirty would be also enough then the boy imagined he had heard the horse talking to his owner dont fear , elkano , that ill drive crazyily .
i can be even be a circus horse .
but though i can stand on my back feet only , i would not do it with nahumik , as its a dangerous position .
now he can hit with his shoes on my belly and make me drive faster .
but he should bend a little , and hold the reins very strongly .
exactly in the manner that you , elkano , were teaching him .
hop hop and well reach the fields but we wont do that today , nahumik told himself , im still not trained enough .
on the coming day well drive out for a confidential mission .
im the knight in a new adventures book .
next day the boy went to school with a great feeling of satisfaction from his activity .
in his heart he thanked the photographer for confiding in him .
it seemed like kaplansky had known of his sons friendship also with ramona .
he himself told me to look at the photos of elkanoif i tell my friends that i was riding alone theyll believe me , because mike was on his veranda and saw me .
next morning just after nahumik and the other pupils entered their classroom , their schoolmaster has arrived in , facing them .
your teacher zelda is pregnant , as you know , he said , she cant come today .
so youll have two hours off .
you will get balls and a donkey case to jump on it manage the sports lesson by yourselves , and please keep quiet .
dont disturb other classes .
mike told nahumik that he had reported already to his mom about the pregnant teacher .
mikes mother was very angry , saying in such an unsecure situation of the country who dares to become pregnant ?
your teacher zelda is crazy .
the boys laughed , and then after throwing on the girls some paper airplanes and crumpled bread balls , nahumik had suddenly suggested something that impressed his friends why should not we get near the frontline now ?
we have a spare time , and it is a nice morning .
our mothers wont know about it , and wont search us or worry about .
bravo !
cried mike , ill walk with you .
so with us , two additional pupils joined them , and also the girl irin .
lets turn straight to the graveyard , said mike , from there well march together into the orchard , that a direct path inside it will lead us to the frontline positions .
we will take a look , jolted nahumik , at some diggings , wires and shelters of sacks , filled with sand .
maybe well find some soldiers there my mom has told me , said mike , that the real front had moved forward to the arab villages .
and really , now everything seems to be quiet , and well have a nice journey .
at the sideways there was new grass growing .
the wintry nettle was stinging the pupils bare legs , as they were wearing shorts .
then the noise of a close shrapnell was heard .
after it a nearby machine guns fire was ticking , and the group fell down on the ground , some trembling .
mike was calling to them to draw back .
nahumik shouted against him no , dont move and nobody dared yet to raise his head , as the shooting voices had continued .
soon they heard a noise of a jeep .
it was coming straight from the east .
a captain got out of it and shouted are you crazy or what ?
run away back , immediately !
he pulled out a pistol and told them hell fire their legs if they dont move immediately .
so they were rising , and beagn running quickly until they have arrived back at the schools gate .
but now they could tell their friends how brave they had been , visiting the real front and even getting the enemys fire .
chapter 16 after the declaration of independence of the jewish state in 15 may 1948 , elkano and his collegues were sent to an operation of capturing the road from tel aviv to jerusalem .
the first night for that mission they spent in the woods of kibbuts hulda .
a very hot hamsin air has wrapped the whole contryside .
warm wind slipped from the mountains to the valleys and to the plain of sharon and to the seashore as well .
at once you could feel the dryness of everything surrounding you the wetness of grass and flower had disappeared .
also the orchards and woods and other plantations had become grey from dust instead of green , and the throat was dry and thirsty the eastern wind was capturing everything .
you could do nothing against this secret silent wind , which was sawing the roofs of houses , stables and huts .
also the moon and stars had disappeared , and the few that remained would become gloomy .
the hens suffered very much from this weather , and nahumik helped his mother , by taking a rubber pipe and sending water on the hens coops roofs but that had not helped much .
the boy and his mother had to pull out dying chicken from the coops into a grave digged thereby .
the rest of them , having remained only fainting or completely alive ramona and nahumik took into their living room , and were splashing water over them nahumik was not attending school in that day .
in the afternoon he went to rabbi aaron , and told him about the hens disaster .
the rabbi immediately arrived in ramonas house , and butchered fifty of the fainting hens , strictly keeping the jewish kosher way of butchering , a partial cut of the chicken throat not fully separating the head from body .
so , ramona was able to sell the hens and chickens flesh and get some money from a butchery owner in the towncenter .
the man sold the blue sallow hens very cheaply to whoever would buy about half of all ramonas chicken died in the hundred ten farnheit degrees night , and in the day after .
the son and mother felt desparate .
they did not know that in those hours elklano had a much more horrible experience .
chapter 17 it was after the battle of latroon , in the area of the biblical ayalon valley the moon was staying there while the sun was not moving for a whole day in givon all happened in jushuas time .
rumors had begun to reach nahumiks small hometown .
they were bearing on their wings a bad message , like job had gotten from his messengers in ancient times .
about half of an israeili battalion was missing from the battlefield , and no one could tell exactly what had happened to its soldiers .
why can not anyone tell us the true , clear , explicit facts ?
the townsmen were asking .
the doubts butcher our hearts , and the blood strikes our temples as thousand hammers .
and it cant be otherwise what was common to all the rumors ?
that they were not optimistic , and they were stubborn like rocks and blood sucking as ticks , and sticky as a mastique .
and all the people tended to believe in what they had been telling .
oh , its a bad sign .
oh , how wicked is the mind to tell what the heart wishes to hide and delay .
oh , black , sad , chaotic prophesy .
may god deny you .
the rumor that elkano was among those missing soldiers was strengthened by a simple fact in his last visit at home , he insinuated that he would be joining an armour vehicles squad .
instead of attacking further on to the eastern side of the country and conquer some mountains , ben gurion decided that breaking the way to the besieged jerusalem would be the first priority of elkanos regiment .
so he was one of the warriors , who were heading to take positions in the latroon area .
it was a flat valley .
on it had existed the only road from tel aviv and the seashore to jerusalem .
all the jewish people know what jerusalem means so said the israeli government .
it is and will be the core of the land .
eeverything in jerusalem is connected to the jewish history there is the wailing wall remnant of the devastated temple .
in this old holy citys streets prophets poets were walking and shouting about the sins of the israeli kings and other ruling classes and high society richmen , and demanding social justicejerusalem was captured many times but re settled , and now besieged again .
cruel satanic history , away with you !
a few days after the first rumors , new rumors were arriving in town .
then came others , and though sometime they were contradicting each other , people believed in all of them some rumors were telling that most of the missing soldiers were taken in prison , and a few had been slaughtered .
other rumors said the opposite , and others added that there were many wounded remaining on the battle field , but some had succeeded to escape and got back to our lines these escapers didnt report about it , as they were still fighting in other frontiers but i say , said kaplansky to a client , and nahumik heard , that a very heavy shelling was there on our troops .
the trans jordanian army called arab legion , was having the best artillery .
its batallions had invaded to the west bank of the jordan river from its eastern side and helped by british command , these armies assaults were causing us heavy losses .
but the word failure is out of our lexicon , said another man , because not only women believe in the power of words to change situations .
so we should neither admit it nor utter this word our leaders know the sad truth , said another man to mustached old mekler , whos just arrived in the store , while kaplansky went into his apartment to bring him some special photos as well as our army commanders and many newspapermen know .
.
but everyone will ask you not to set panic within our lines .
now , dont tell the most terrible rumor , that ive heard today even those who were thought to be in prison are not alive .
it means , that they were shot dead or butchered by knives .
god will save their souls !
thats it due to the enormous amount of rumors and their meanings all parents and brothers and sisters and close friends of the missing soldiers were shocked and frustrated no one knews exactly what had happened to their beloved ones , but all signs were showing that a bloodshed had taken place there .
if the enemy had only admitted that the dead were in his hands we would have had a better feeling , isnt it so ?
but we have only rumors and whispers and nothing precise , clear cut message .
a mourning atmosphere is hanging around on the walls of our houses , and our townmen are seated inside in dumbness .
in these hard times youll hardly find a fellow , who would dare to say a word of encouragement .
because its clear as a daylight if the armys speakers are silent , and the public media and politicians are also swallowing their tongues , it means that the facts are terrible .
we are fighting our back to the sea , few against many .
only by the sacrifice and courage of our youths well win .
by hook or by crook you cant but win .
dont deny , however , that for long weeks we will be dangling between despair and hope .
and that despair created the phenomenon , that almost every healthy youth had gone to that terrible war , even invalid youths like shmerl the butcher assistant .
the towns streets have been emptied from joys of youths boys and girls as well .
what can we do ?
wait with patience .
yes , thats what is needed now so , why should you have even a tail of thought , that those tens of guys , that adolescence was shining from their faces , are gone forever ?
dont call the latroon valley a cursed graveyard the jordanian artillery was really heavy and butcherous , but some of our men succeeded to get out from hell .
my heart only pains , that some had fallen , without even tasting real life no , dont surrender to the bad rumors .
the acute lightening that hit us , will pass away .
our body is still functioning and we should inhale pure clean air into our lungs .
maybe all our life we will wait for our missing one .
we should be living so , with the morbid feeling of loss all around , till the final breath in our life .
our limbs will be cut and our thoughts will be wandering , and we will always stand at the margin of the living ones we will not know any more a real relief of joy until we will be ourselves pushed into our graves , and unite with our loved ones somewhere in the universe of loss and nothingness .
other people will celebrate the great events , that our new state of israel will have , and well feel that its ours but not for us because it has been built upon our devastation .
t h e s e are true and direct words , not hiding anything .
its our moira as the old greek tragedy writers would say our destiny , and no other !
but mr. mekler , please listen to what rabbi aaron had told mrs. yoishe esters , whose son was among those missing rumors are heavy and dark as sheol ?
i daresay , that everything still can be changed .
if no one confirms anything , there is still some hope but i ask everybody where are the british ?
they have been the rulers here till two months ago ?
they have left spies and intelligence agents all over the arab camps , i say .
we should scream day and night and find out what has really happened .
some of the women in the market were saying , and nahumik listened to them , that the army was bluffing our citizens it was telling that no one could have the lists of surviving soldiers .
yes , because there existed many fronts all over and the fight was moving more quickly than the beaurocracy could afford for finding who had been where and take into account , that jerusalem is besieged now no one is out and only few are strealing to come in .
the missing soldiers maybe there , i say no , i would not swear it , but no true jew is allowed to swear nowadays .
hopefully , with gods help , we will be saved .
chapter 18 one day there really appeared a good rumor , with some evidence photographs have begun to arrive in town .
one photo was large and the other small , one very dark and one quite bright , one distorted and one clear and so on .
it was a bunch of photos , and what had characterized them , was that on all you could see young men , israeli youths that have fallen in captivity .
in groups and in pairs they appeared on the pictures , which had been taken somewhere the guys were standing or sitting , completely or partly dressed and some having their bare hairy chests seen very clearly .
most of them were wearing khaki trousers , and on their heads funny hats , that have been supposedly supplied by their captors but we have to add , that the shoes were taken from all of them everybody was photod barefooted .
if they were walking there in this manner in a desert camp they suffered very much .
but mainly its not their external physical condition , that weve to worry about we have to be satisfied from the real fact that here they are alive in these photos .
this makes me happy , you see ?
these pictures are not a kleininkeit if i put it in the yiddish language its not a small thing all men and women in our town and in others can rush hungrily to the photos , and the flash of hope would rekindle in their eyes .
yes , its all right that people get incited and become hopeful parents and friends began to analyse each photo very thoroughly .
some were writing a list of guys who had been known to them , and of the kinds of trousers with which they were dressed and even the trees or bushes that were caught on the photos , around or in the background .
other relatives were writing their conviction about the quality of the light in the photo , and commented about the unprofessional hand of the photographer , to our disappointment but speaking realistically , the main problem with the photos was that no one of those had been sharp nor clear nor big enough , so that a person could rise , stand erect and declare yes , i am absolutely sure that i identify my son or my brother in this picture , no doubt about that !
some people were saying that the hope and belief would bring about a cursed illlusion .
but what is wrong with that ?
you have to expect for the best and pray for luck .
gods help will do the rest of the necessary effort to save all .
dont become desparate so soon .
one day chased another , and the photos were changing hands .
they moved from pocket to pocket , from house to house , till they had been seen everywhere in the little town .
mothers were embracing them , sweethearts were kisssing them , and some women were caressing them even in their dreams .
who knows ?
maybe many of them would have been stolen or lost , if no one had kept them well and somebody had made some copies , so that their turnover would be constantly kepta nice question you ask who would take care of them and be responsible for keeping their permanent good shape ?
i mean in a manner that that they will not be torn or folded or stained the treasury keeper is solomon kaplansky , the towns photogrpher .
these sacred pictures are a public property , arent they ?
so , no one should confiscate a photo or deliver it further on without letting kaplansky make at least one copy for his special archive , as a security against thieves and losers , ramona told nahumik .
but if you asked how and wherefrom have these photos arrived ? no one would know exactly .
mr. mekler , a father of one of the missing guys , had some connections with the high windows in ministry of defence it was said , that because his son was shown in almost every picture he was called to a general of the army , responsible for its manpower dept. , and he received all those photos from that general .
now mekler said to kaplansky look , it seems like the pictures have been stolen or being brought legally by the red cross or by the red crescent or by sombody from un but the main importance of this stuff would be if you identify your beloved one here , and be happy for the time being , no one talks about a release of anyone from a prison camp .
how much sadness and heart pounding and doubts , said ramona to her son , can simple photos cause to relatives of the missing ones .
and you can be sure , that the enemy had delivered these in purpose to harm us .
to get us into the unknown sphere .
however every photo would render some hope to someone , thats its good mission .
to add to our bewilderment , said the photographer to nahumik , when one day he came about the horse , i question how could it be , that our sons were smiling in those pictures ?
is it possible to be in prison and laugh even if somebody has just told a joke , and the photo had been shot by the enemys professional ?
no , it shows that their situation in prison is well , said mr. marmary , who was standing beside solomon , and greeting the boy who was already mounting the horse .
thank god , this photo shows that the prisoners get everything according to geneva convention .
one afternoon kaplansky was fainting in the towns hall .
it was while he attended the meeting of the missing ones relatives .
he was lying unconscious for two minutes on the floor , and soon the nurse medic tsipy was trying to treat him , by splashing some water on his face and measuring his quick pulse .
poor solomon was crying elkano , i dont find you i cant !
why have you gone ?
nurse tsipy counted twenty drops of brown liquid that she has put into a spoon , and ordered solomon to drink it , which he did .
indeed he quickly returned to himself .
doctor priver , who had attended the meeting from the beginning , knowing that such scene might take place , said that if he had not percieved any pains in his chest , he would be okey .
nahumik remembered that in his street , every second house dwellers had lost beloved ones .
parents and teenagers or even children , brothers and sisters of the missing ones , were shedding tears when unseen .
a l m o s t no one accused the government or the army for the disaster almost no one , except two , that nahumik had surely heard them talk against the jewish leaders .
these two were kaplansky and mr. hofman , the towns architect who was a secret communist , and nobody have imagined it solomon told hofman at the end of the meeting , that the zionist leadership of the jews in israel has made a mistke declaring the independence of state of israel .
hofman agreed and said theyll not withstand in this bloody war .
and even if it is won there will be another one , in which theyll be defeated !
what a coockoo nest this army is , hardly having a gun that can shoot , and old trucks shielded with 5 centimeter steel armour .
with no tanks , with hardly two light piper airplanes and with that they had wished our dear young men to defend the jewish towns and villages and kibutsim scattered all over the country and inside cursed jerusalem .
it was a very uncalculated decision of the bloody leaders , said kaplansky .
and i suffer from it , not they .
i suspect that none of them has any sons in the battlefield .
but ramona , who listened to her son telling her about all that , has told nahumik the two are wrong , so i think .
the jewish people themselves have to be blamed .
because its their fate .
none of them is desired or required in this cruel world of nations .
you see , no one defends us from the attack of the arab nations .
it seems that all the other people in the world are against us , because they see we are so amall and lacking power .
maybe im wrong , but sometimes i feel like that and you should also keep that feeling in your heart .
you may not agree hundred percent in that , but fifty percents is also enough yes , she continued , there are some righteous people to be found in other nations and its a fact that the united nations assembly has decided that we should be delivered this state .
but it was in a rare moment .
now they all repent it , and tell us it was wrongdoing to the arab palestinians , who are now drawing away to the mountains .
nahumik heard his mothers theory and his skin has become stingy and reddening .
so , this war is awful , and may last very long .
it will be impossible to get a final and ultimate victory .
the muslems are hundreds of millions .
they will forever remain in our neighborhood , said mom , and even if we make them withdraw hundred times there is a danger that on the coming war who knows .
we are not innocent god believers , my son .
so , you remember my words youre living in the most dangerous country in the world but this is our fate and nothing else .
the enemy will never be annihilated .
even peace agreement if signed at all will be temporary , breakable and partial .
we can surrender and become muslems and end with it , i say but we are not fit for that .
we jews are too proud and boastful.two thousands years , you know next day nahumik asked rabbi aarons opinion also about that .
yes , said the rabbi .
principally its a war without miracles .
the almighty would not spend his powers on miracles nowadays , as there are also no prophets , since the day of the temples destruction .
and certainly he wont make any big , well proven miracles to his chosen people .
why ? because most of them have left the torah commandments nowadays , of course .
we dont know why all this happens in our time , and as simple people we cant guess and understand his actions .
it seems that in recent generation god has decided to make a change in the world he has caused that people would leave him .
maybe all that is in order to re organize the universe , like in noahs times .
but well not pass away by a flood , thats sure .
he has other means , by fire or by draught or by the atom bomb .
he has sworn and the rainbow witness it , that only a deluging flood wont come on mankind , but anything else is possible !
chapter 19 let us return to the photographs .
the townsfolk were grouping mainly at the central circle , near the bus station .
they were viewing together those photos , and mumbling to each other dont you see ?
a wonder , but here he is clearly .
hundred percent .
who else has had such a half bald head and a curvy nose and blinking eyes and thick lips and robust shoulders ?
and have a look at that long throat of the guy standing by him he is his friend elkano , sure .
who else has such a boasting chest and muscled arms and ah , the blond hair ?
its an optical illussion , due to the certain angle of the sun at that time , beaming on his head .
but even if that is not elkano the one that im talking about is ron mekler , dont deny that .
and there at the right side is simon the son of the chicken grower mathilda .
okey , maybe not .
simon was thicker .
and he would never laugh about something like the guy here .
but why are you saying that i am mistaken all along the road ?
you should feel ashamed to say that about my judgement nahumik came again to the photographers apartment .
kaplansky asked how his mother was and how the hens were , as he had heard only now about the great damage that ramona had suffered .
mom says , that even though half were perished , said nahumik , we have to be happy that half has remained .
a clever saying , said kaplansky .
the horse is neighing , said the boy , returning to the purpose for which he has come .
its waiting for you , smiled kaplansky , but his face looked sallow and tortured , he remembers you and happy that you have come .
i havent ridden him for two weeks .
i cant enjoy it these days .
well , im going out , said nahumik and turned to the front door .
just a moment .
have you seen the last photos from the imprisonment camp ?
mom has told me , said the boy , something she heard that there is a good chance that in one of them why dyou say only a good chance ?
roared kaplankkys voice , there are two pictures in which elkano is seen clearly .
here !
he pulled out a photo from his pocket and the boy turned to look at it and then gazed at the photographer .
do you identify him ?
asked the man with a fire of some strange hatred or great confusion in his eyes .
yes , said the boy , after having viewed the guys there thoroughly .
his lips trembled and his heart jumped .
not a long time ago it seems he has seen a very similar picture in the album of kaplansky .
elkano had still been alive there .
nahumik was stoned to his place for a while .
he wanted to understand and couldnt .
he took the picture and asked may i show that to my mom ?
yes , of courese .
and from now on im sure you will ride the horse again with my elkano .
he is alive and will be soon released with all his friends .
the boy was too shy and too childish to oppose this sentence , and he was frustrated and mumbled to himself hes alive .
is he ?
be cautious while you are on the horseback , mentioned kaplansky when nahumik has turned back to go outside .
when nahumik was standing in the stable he wanted to weep .
the man elkanos papa , has become mad .
a month before elkano has gone to the army , he was telling his little friend an interesting thing .
his pa , the veteran photographer , is an expert of sophisticated in image super imposition in the photos .
its called photomontage maybe a french word .
imagine , for example , said elkano that our intelligence service wants our enemies to think that we like them are also helped by british officers in this war .
we delude the enemy by fabricating a british officer in faked picture that well scatter .
or well secretly render it to a newspaperman that will publish it .
dyou understand ?
or we can plant such a fake picture in the battle field , and one or more irresponsible israeli fighter will lose it near the enemy lines , and it will be picked up by an enemy soldier and this guy will persuade others , that we have much more power than we actually have .
if i want to boast before my friends , said the boy , that i am a wonderful horse rider , ill ask your father to mix a photo , showing me fighting with the horserider without a head .
and ill tell all my friends look , i have cut his head with my sword .
elkanos ghostly figure has disappeared form the boys imagination .
he seemed to listen again to the voice of solomon kaplansky .
he spoke normally , his words sane , but something was not regular .
maybe i am mistaken , said nahumik to himself .
and those in the new photo were not exactly the same as in the previous photo of elkano and his friends that i have seen in the past ...
so , is kaplansky a lier ?
he is full of self pity and pitiful of the other parents of his sons collolegues , who are really so wretched .
in this act of faking , he has intended as to stretch the rope of expectation !
to delay thel truth about the terrible fate of those missing .
oh , terrible and awesome what i am thinking i wont tell it to mom .
i dont dare .
it seems that she would tell me that ive fallen from ther roof as sometimes she says about a nonsense .
or maybe i tell it to rabbi aaron .
he will know if i am right in my assumption .
he sometimes long for the days he was younger and challenged the dictator stalin , cheating the russian regime in order to go out of the evil state of communism .
these words he used , in order to justify his pretence as a lunatic that at last made the wicked regime drive him out of the russian state in the afternoon nahumik went to his rabbi as usual .
they were studying already not in the butchery hut , as before but in the big synagogues side room .
five pupils had been learning there , and repeating with the rabbi the first chapter in baba metsia talmud .
at the end of it was a word anpuria , taken from ancientg greek .
nahumik asked what does it mean , and the rabbi rebuked him , but was well aware he should explain it just right .
it means new belongings of a man , tools or utensils , that the eye has not yet been satiated by them .
and it is related to signs , that a man who has lost something has to give to the honest finder , in order to get back his loss .
and if that person is unreliable ?
asked the boy , for example , if this man has seen the thing before in his friends hand , and he comes to claim it ?
ah , you mean that someone dishonest might claim this finding ?
yes , there are such people , answered nahumik .
the wise rabbi has known that must be something personal of nahumik connected with his saying , and he ordered him to remain alone with him , after the rest of the pupils would go home .
nahumik told him shortly about what he had seen at kaplanskys flat .
the rabbi , as usual , was attacking it indirectly , and did not say what he was going to do about the pupils suspicion .
maybe nahum is erroneous , but on the other side maybe he is right .
the superpower of almighty will help , said the rabbi he used his yiddish language der eibershter muss uns helfen .
he moaned a litle bit , and from all that nahumik undersood that he had not found a solution to the problem .
but the rabbi said please call your mom to come here and see me .
the families of the missing ones had been dealt a terrible blows , said the rabbi to himself , it is like one of the strikes of god on the egyptians so , what should we do ?
next evening ramona was very angry on nahumik .
why hasnt he told about his discovery first to her ?
to his mom , who is so closed to him and has always cared for him , that has born him ?
and he knows that she is the best consultant for solving hard problems .
so why hasnt he hidden his secret inside his heart ?
this is an unbased suspect , my dear childinstead of believing what the eyes see , you have a dark doubt , you suspect .
and whom ?
elkanos papa .
the dear brave chaps father to be cruel to kaplansky like that and to all of us .
we all are painfully bearing this disaster !
she said .
okey , mom , said nahumik , enough with that .
i was mistaken .
i see you are sad and nervous about that .
you have behaved like a fool .
im sorry to say that .
cant you understand that the whole town will gossip about kaplansky , this bereaved person ?
we are all bereaved now .
and you have no evidence to what you calim .
so , dont talk about that any more you are a grown up boy , what happens to you ?
she was silent for a moment .
i cant order you , she added , ultimately not to think but any human being , including a child like you , should hold his mouth shut these days .
god forbid if he utters something not based on true facts and reasonable evidence .
what sadness and grief might bring out baseless rumors , oy vey !
but you have always said , answered the boy , that the rabbi is a clever and responsible man .
so how dyou know he will spread out vile rumors or assumptions that have no solid ground ?
ah , i have seen him already today , said ramona , i told him the same to shut up !
i asked him not to tell all this even to the great rabbi rinik , in the central synagogue .
okey , to our great luck , your rabbi has not told him , so he assured me .
nahumik felt that his mother is still angry at his bad behavior .
he should tell the truth to himself sometimes the behavior and sayings of mature people are a riddle to him .
they seem to sternly show inner calm and serenity .
they wish it as well to others that they like .
they prefer to pretend that everything is o.k .
instead of telling and thinking the real , pure , sacred truth .
they refuse to admit that , and to check and verify real facts so , why has rabbi aaron , when he admitted me to be his pupil , said that hewould be proud to teach me only the truth ?
and he added that from reading and debating in talmud and torah i will see how already our fore fathers have already discussed the hard questions of life and death , right and wrong , and by that ill know the reality in its purity and its profoundness , so he said .
there is hardly anything in life and nature , he exclaimed boastfully to me and to my mom , when ive first met him , that our wise rabbies have not touched in their discussions .
you have to look and watch their words and read the torah , because eveything is to be found in it .
even pay attention even to things that seem unimportant and marginal in which nations holy book can you find a debate about these are the findings of a man , that occasionally finds something somewhere ?
or in what circumstances a man is desparate from ownership of a thing he had lost ?
ill take a long deep breath , said nahumik to himself , and think .
people dont dare to do that .
they put aside the idea of bereavement , wanting to postpone a sorrow about the passed away wholl join hell or fall into abyss .
mom told me that .
i am lucky that im only a child .
all is just open to me .
i will not cover anything untill it is very clear to me and ill trace each of its trees , from its root up to top .
yeah , i said that in a nice style .
but its hard to achieve .
no once elkano has told me the fact that you endevour to get something very important for you is in itself a proof that your childhood has ended .
and rabbi aron hittin has formulated it in his way its said in psalms you have seen a thief and you were running with him .
it is not only that you are chasing him but hes running from himeself , from his humane roots .
therefore if he has that root of course you have to find your internal root , of truth and fairness and integrity. and go forth with it .
at that night nahumik woke up from a dream elkanos horse was waiting somewhere and soon his hoops were trampling on the grounsels wide field .
on it was a knight without a head from the book of mine rid .
from that field he passed to an area full of dry crevices and deep valleys , that could hide a sophisticated enemy and from there he found himself on a blue black mountain , that no one has ever passed to its other side except elkano , who told the boy that he had been there with three of his comrades .
the decapitated night was elkano himself , yes , and therefore he could not speak , but horsy was talking instead of the youth , trying to uplift his mood , getting out of the spectre that he had just seen .
you ride everywhere you can , said the horse .
dont think that your riding on me is so definite and limited to this small town and countryside .
no , you wont ride at a distance of two three courtyards , boy .
be patient , and youll gallop far away .
the horse ended his words and the decapitated knight was thrown from his back onto the air , and said that he is ready to gallop with nahumik to search and find elkano intact and uninjured .
even if he gallops to the sky , like prophet elijah well return here , back to earth .
you are not dreaming , dear boy , you take off and fly with me .
chapter 20 kaplanskys shop has become a meeting place for those searching their missing ones .
one day an inteligence officer has arrived there and delivered to solomon new photos to watch and let others see .
the photographer has mentioned , like being resented in my opinion none of these youths that we see here was existing in the previous photos given to us .
thses guys here are not from our town at all , for sure or they are among those , whose parents told in the past that no figure of their sons had been shown on the previous photos go to them .
why have you come to me with these photos ?
mister weinberg , please take care of these , i have neither time nor wish to hold them .
oh , what do i see ?
look here !
something is written in english on the back of this photo !
i am bad in translating from english old mr. weinberg was alreay grabbing the phootos with trembling fingers .
he placed the most clear ones on the round table and began to investigate the writing from afar i see that they are different in their standing position or background from the previous ones , but this time i understand the english written on their back .
its the name of the photographer stamped , but also a full description in handwriting these photographs were taken inside the jewish prisoners camp in mafraq , hashemite kingdom of jordan .
weinberg had translated into hebrew the meaning of the text .
then he turned the photo and watched it very carefully from right to left and his lips were tightened .
he took a second and third picture and was gazing at them too , watching them for a long time .
he tried to memorise or calculate something while mumbling my son is not here , im sure , and when kaplansky heard him say that he was looking at the third one , and suddenly his eyes were shining this guy whose head is shaven , he said , is very likely to my son .
it seems that he has gained some more weight .
but its elkano , really oy vey , he suddenly mumbled , please hold me , i feel im fainting like two weeks ago .
they brought water to him and he seemed to recover .
but he continued to mumble and no one understood .
a third bereaved man arrived from outside , and pushed the others why havent you announced loudly in town , he said , that youve got new photos ?
the loudspeaker is in the town mayors hands .
mr. weinberg persuaded kaplansky to sign to the high ranked officer a receipt for the four new photos he had brought .
kaplansky will enlarge them , and hopefully they will remove the doubts if this youth is elkano or joab or mishka kovalsky , the poultry growers second son .
but the enlarged pictures will be ready only tomorrow , my friends .
said the photographer .
they have to be dry , if you know anything about my craft .
in the evening kaplansky grabbed again one of those photos , his hands trembling .
but i can not remember well the face of my dear son , he said to himself .
everything is suddenly vague in my perceptive memory .
ill compare this figure with elkanos last photos that i have shot .
here he is in some military course with two comrades .
and here is his upper body head and shoulders that i have photographed .
here he is on the horse in the stable in the last visit he paid to me , before running back to the battlefield , to the mass..a.. c.. no , hes there with a soldiers shirt which my son was never wearing .
his face is quite similar , but he is shown in profile and i say no !
maybe .
no .
maybe.but what are those trees in the horizon there ?
they arent dark orchard , like we have here .
where is my magnifying glass ?
these are needle shaped leaves , that we dont know here !
that is a proof that it was taken in the enemys land..
but who knows if this is elkano ?
and the father of the real solider should hold it and be happy , not me .
..
i reckon that till the end of this war my son wont be found .
i am unlucky .
such things happened and will happen in history .
the devils act .
at the end , our army will nominate an inquiring committee which will conclude that those photos were not covering all the missing ones , and that is the end .
period oh , woe to me , the angel of death is nearby , thirsty to suck my blood , like a vuilture , feeding on the dead ones .
woe to my elder years .
his hands dropped the photos , or the photos slipped from them .
solomons head fell on the round small table , yet he didnt feel the knock of his cheen on the board , which did not break the glass covering it .
a huge dark shadow was like falling on wise solomon .
it has come with a feeling of light sweetness of surfing on the clean air without any weight .
how good and merciful is the power of unconsciousness kaplansky tried to rise up from his seat , on which he had bent down in a cruel sleepy swooning pose , but he could not wake up .
splinters of sweat were covering his quivering body , and bitter tears were dropping from his eyes , and he felt like a heavy block of freezing ice and burning fire weighing down on his temples and head .
his breath was short and his face became sallow like a rock in desert .
maybe in his internal eyes he saw how his complicated labyrinth folds in his brain were had boiled to a dark soup .
his eyes were like fixed in their sockets and as then as strolling in the air , disconnected from his body in the silence that was enhanced in his little shop , where he was , it seemed to him that he hears as a long scream coming out of his internal weep it was rising and growing and then were mumbling and uttering stupid words , and he was feeling rage and shame and a strange sensation of preaching to his dead son , who had not been conscious that he would be going to vanish from the land of life .
elkano was not egotistic enough to rescue himself , and could not accept the idea that he had to obey his loving pa. his vague consciousness , that he regarded as pure sanity , told him to refuse .
oh , you innocent pigeon , who will return you to your dove cote ?
and what is awaiting you , father of this little sheep , still in this world ? my life circle has ended with your end , my son and why hadnt i gotten another son or daughter ?
i have only you , its terrible .
everything had been entangledwhat value has the life of a simple photographer , who has no influence on whats going around him and within him .
he thinks that he secures an eternal shape of something , by his photomachinery but its all vanity .
the hell with dynamite and other explosives .
let me leave this doubled multiplied world of good and bad , life and death enough , horrible life !
he was lying half conscious for a few minutes , and was lucky that a woman client entered his shop , whose door had been left open .
she was in an urgent need for passport photos , in order to sail abroad , but when she found the photographer rolled over the table , grey and quivering , unsuccessfully trying to say something to her , she turned out and began shouting please , people !
who knows where we can find a doc .
the photographer has fainted !
the shouts were heard by mikes mother , and she immediately went downstairs from her apartment and also entered the shop , that was on the main street .
she saw her neighbors severe condition , and phoned from a cafe nearby to the medical organization room in town .
doc priver arrived very soon , checked the weak heart beating and ordered the fiat physicians car .
there was no ambulance at hand , as the bloody battlefields required more than could be available .
chapter 21 kaplansy was brought to beilinson hospital , near tel aviv .
the doctors diagnosis was , that he had had a heart attack .
he should lie there till his condition becomes better .
kaplansky himself after having recovered , declared that he had received an electric shock there , and that has caused his quick recovery .
nobody knew if that was true .
.
.five hours after he had arrived there the paramedic nurse tsipy and her friends rose and ramona came to visit him .
sure enough nahumik was passing on the rumor about kaplanskys illness .
he had heard about it from his friend mikes mother , the brown house dweller .
when ramona came to his room , kaplansky had already been awake .
she looked at his suffering body on the white sheets , and his eyes were telling everything .
why have you bothered yourself to come ?
he mumbled .
he didnt wait for an answer as he had known that the ladies have arrived , because of his son .
but elkano is lost , deep in the ground , even not floating on the sea of death .
ramona told the other women she would remain there , and they left .
kaplansky told himself that she was thanking him for causing that elkano exist in that cruel world .
his son has given her some moments of bliss and pleasure so rare in these hard times .
she also deserves pity , like myself , he thought .
ramona wished solomon a quick recovery and the physician who entered the room announced that the visit has ended .
his voice seemed known to ramona , but she hadnt recognized him till she turned her face to him .
it was doctor marcus flumenbaum .
before the holocaust he had married her sister in chechoslovakia , and managed to survive .
once he had come to visit her at home , and nahumik heard him saying the he would like to have close friendship with her but she rejected the idea of further connections .
she had been afraid of that man , who had been egotistic enough to rescue himself , leaving his wife behind , to be taken by the nazies and be sent to auschwitz the doc has followed ramona to the corridor at the heart unit .
ramona , he said , i didnt know that you are a relative or friendly with that man lying there .
his name did not tell me anything .
he is a photographer in my town , she answered , he is a good acquaintance .
just that ?
he asked shortly .
see you again , he added and walked in quick steps before her .
then he returned and said he would escort her to the bus station , though he hadnt yet finished his whole task for that day .
he added he had been sorry not to arrive in her house again in those days .
he would be very busy .
injured soldiers are arriving almost every day .
yes , im very satisfied working here .
okey , i know you would return to visit that man , whose heart is quite not quite in a very good condition.. come again within two three days , and well know better about his health condition , he added .
she undersood that he could know exactrly what the relationship between her and kaplansky are .
but what has he with all that ?
no , she has not two candidates courtiers .
its clear to her , that solomon himself doesnt know yet what she thinks about the future of her relationship with him .
but to her its suddenly clear .
though she knows very little about him and his observance of life .
his late son was sometimes talking very sympathetically about him yes , thsts enough for her to wish him all the best and try to help and continue visiting him .
maybe she will meet marcus again , to her dissatisfaction .
here he parts with her , by shaking hands , apologyzing again .
you know he said quite sarcastically a heart attacks professional never lacks work .
having returned home , ramona was sitting in the kitchen and translating for herself a poem from chech to the hebrew language .
that would bring her soul some tranquility .
it was from a small poetry book that she had brought here from her homeland .
during her work of taking care of the hens , she had already chosen in her mind what and how she would translate some images into hebrew .
at last it has taken on a form of a poem a human being in his childhood is as hard as a lamb , but wise and good to know that his innocence will pass soon .
that after many years , under sun or moon the butcher , holding a long knife will end his life by hunger , or by strife .
ramona re read what she had written and became enraged with herself , for spending time on such a pessimistic poem .
and i have a flash of hope now , she said .
i know solomon was gazing on me as a woman , whose pretiness means something for him .
not to mention what i know that suspect there is now a blood mixture of his sons with the life commencing in my womb so , let me recall the street song ive once read at the university of prague .
some dirty sentence inside she was walking in my street her dogs chain in her hand .
she smiled , like im her heat she wished i would understand to roll her .
i over her , she beneath belly on belly , teeth on teeth .
chapter 22 our old rabbis have already said , reb aaron told his few pupils , cynically or mercifully what the mind will not think of time will be doing .
he opened the learning rooms window , and pointed on a long funeral procession that was going to take place thereby .
it would be a crowded funeral , unlike a regular one .
nobody had time enough or properly announce it , though all had know well that it would happen sooner or later .
if god will be good it would never happen , but dont delude yourself though it had been fixed to an unexpected hour in the afternoon , people interrupted their daily work , leaving aside any tool or utensil or animal or or food from their hands .
they started walking to the main synagogue square .
all were standing like frozen , silent and waiting in tension .
military major rumor , having a scandalous memory , and as such he liked by children recently they have learnt about his existance from their old brothers letters to their parents was surfing very calmly in the open air , or maybe sitting on a green grass cushion at the horizon , and marketing again his terrible never ending goods .
all of a sudden , like in a snatch , it all happened .
and until a man had chance to recover from his initial shock the dark doubt has become a real fact .
the knowledge about the naked truth , of death in almost every house on the towns old streets has been unveiled in daylight .
it was dwelling now within coffins which were wrapped by blue white and david star national flags , and with talith praying cloths .
a low weeping voice was its melody , and the deep knowledgeable bereavement was its messenger .
the children whose talmud lesson was cut by the rabbi , got out through the synagogue side exit .
they were gazing now at four or five military trucks on the road .
nahumik could not at first know their exact number , because of the ocean of people filling the sqaure and its entries .
it was four in the afternoon , and the heavy drive of the vehicles in the town center has made the mourning matures and elderly burst in cry , and stirred fear mingled with a respect of the sublime in the hearts of the children .
the soldiers who drove the trucks came out of their cabines , as the stand up meeting of the town leaders continued at the townsquare .
the curiosity of the children led them to have a look at the soldiers and the vehicles more closely , and humik and his friend mike approached them .
one of the soldiers began to smoke .
he wasnt just a recruit but had a captains rank of three olive branches on his shirt , at his shoulders .
he resented the curious boys .
what are you looking at ?
he asked the kids .
we have never seen such an army vehicle from such a short distance , said mike .
we have dead soldiers on our trucks , said the captain , who seemed to be the commander , we will try to get with the corpses close to the graveyard .
we know that some of the relatives wouldnt be psycholgically fit .
.
.
for bearing the coffins .
why havent you brought enough soldiers for that task ?
asked nahumik .
most of our soldiers are in the fronts , lovely boy , said the commander , for a real , well done ceremony you have to have tens of soldiers that we are lacking .
also they are lacking wreaths and flowers to lay them on the graves , said nahumik to his friend .
let me think he said to himself not on death directly .
now i know even more than before , after having heard what kaplansky said to mom in hospital , and he told said it clearly , so that ill also understand that he does not believe in a man , as well as in god .
but he said his small sum of money would help him not to go out of his mind .
what did he mean by that ?
mom said that its not crazy , this belief of solomon in his money .
she did not give details about what she had meant , but i feel that she listened to his quite philosophical statement , because hes elkanos dad , and thinks hes clever even more then elkano i think like a boy with an old mans mind so said my mom .
well .
let me now see what happens .
the funeral has advanced somewhat .
..and my breathing has become short .
he pushed some mourners in order not to lose sight of his friends .
people gazed at him angrily .
they were all walking slowly after the five trucks , and two cars and ten horse wagons , in which were many parents and relatives of the deceased .
nahumik fell down once on the sand at the sidewalk , but soon was back on his feet .
then the procession came to a halt .
the community leaders had to consult again on some issue .
whats so complicated in a funeral ? nahumik asked his comrades .
its ten or twenty folds a regular one , but the ceremony and burial are the same , arent they ?
the soldiers who were standing in rows of three now were seperarted their commander had ordered them to jump on the trucks , four on each vehicle .
they were seated to the two sides of each coffin , their guns set up in vetical angle .
it was seen on their faces , that they are were as dumb and deaf , and would behave as should a man behave in a military heros funeral .
weve heard that almost a regiment of soldiers had gone to that battle nahumik was thinking .
only two or three men succeeded to be rescued .
so it could be that they are now sitting there beside some brave dead soldier .
but why is it important ?
ah , i meditate about tiny matters in order to prevent from weeping while reminding of dear amazing elkano .
now i think hes become friendly with me as he wanted to be memorized by a childs heart .
ill live more than his age now , i swear .
he had known it , and minded it that id remember his goodnes and generosity to me an anonymous hand has left a big empty orange box in the middle of synagogue square .
he turned in over so that the beadle jumped on it and declared now to the memory of those who have fallen , and to condole all mourners rabbi abraham rinik will shortly make his harangue .
men and women told each other shshshs and the hard moving , obese rabbi , having a large dark robe and a long grey beard , split into two at its bottom , approached the box and climbed it .
the rabbis harangue was basd on the bibles tale about absalom , son of king david , who had set up a statue for himself because he had no son !
the rabbi repeated a few times he had no son and added that it should be explained as the statue , a stone will be a substitute to davids son .
the son of king david thought it was a proper thing to do , and by that we learn to do that also .
set up a statue .
women began to weep , as the rabbis voice broke down , and he repeated mumbling as he had no son , he had no son .
nahumik also wiped his tears , but suddenly thought about his mother .
where is she ? he asked himself .
she is among the crowd , if she hasnt travelled to the hospital to visit the photographer .
she remembers that kaplansky was the father of joyful wonderful elkano .
she has already decided that he solomon was a very interesting man and has even told her jokes yes , he was having a special sense of humor , that hasnt left him despite his bereavement .
it saves him , he said , from becoming mad .
nahumik saw his mother on the graveyard .
we are both here , he said to himself , so that elkano will hear us as we cry .
our tradition tells us , that the dead listen and understand when the grave is still open .
therefore mom gets close the the brethern collective grave and says something .
the gave diggers begin to cover it with sand , moving their shovels .
i can hear something while her lips are mumbling you know that you always hundred percentsi wont be able to forget you , silly guy she was shortly weeping , as the three grave diggers have finished their task and fixed a small signboard on the hip of sand , under which the five warriors had been buried .
chapter 23 after more than a week , the photographer was sent home .
ramona was not his sole visitor now .
some parents of the past misssing warriors also were witnessing his re arrival .
he was brought back by the same fiat car , which had taken him to hospital .
descending from the vehicle he waved his hands to the visitors , who were waiting near his apartment and shop .
doctor priver asked the ten visitors to let him rest , and only two women were permitted to escort him and arrange his apartment ramona and nurse tsipy .
why has he been released so soon ?
asked mr. mekler .
sir , you forget were in a war every bed in hospital is needed for wounded warriors , who arrive every day , said the physician , thank god , kaplansky has been relieved from his pains .
next day ramona prepared lunch for weak solomon .
tears appeared in her eyes , when the recovering man asked doctor priver , who had visited him early in the afternoon doc , when can i visit the brethern grave , where my son was buried ?
i mean , if it wouldnt be too much risky for my heart .
oh , next week , said the doc , you seem just feeling well now , but we have our own method about the steps of a patients recover .
the medical practice is , that the one who gets a heart attack has to lie in bed for three up to four weeks .
you will get out of here after two and half , okey ?
ramona did not escort solomon to the graveyard .
only mr. weinberg was with him .
in a clear morning a taxi took them there and drove them back home .
kaplansky returned pale and tired .
he lied on the sofa for half an hour , and with weak voice asked ramona about nahumiks studies at school .
he was just surprised to hear that her son also studies with rabbi aaron .
oh , why does a modern boy needs that ?
he asked , you know my son elkano had also tried to study there , with the butcher rabbi .
but he had left the rabbinical clergyman very soonhe heard and told me that rabbi aaron was only a practical kosher butcher .
he had not been allowed by the central rabinity to be a real community leader i mean , a rabbi with full allowance to wed couples or harangue to the public .
kaplansky smiled from his own half humoristic tale .
yes , my nahumik has told me that , said ramona , it came about because the rabbi emigrated from soviet russia , when no one was allowed to do that .
he was pretending mad in order to be driven out from atheist russia .
the israeli rabbinate system suspected , that he might have lost practicality there .
or that some atheistic ideas were hidden in a corner of his mind , so ramona boiled vegetables soup to solomon , and promised him to visit him every day .
the old widower , weinberg , was his keeper in the mornings , giving him a daily white pill , to be taken with a half glass of water , at least .
at that time ramona was busy in feeding her hens and gathering their eggs from the coops .
she used to come to kaplansky at two or three in the afternoon , and was caring as well as weinberg that the photographer wont move too much .
especially to his shop , that he wanted to re open soon .
kaplansky was also eager for eating cakes , and eventually would try to request a visitor to buy and bring him one .
but ramona stood on guard and avoided him from even tasting it .
however , kaplansky had at home a laika automatic camera , and he decided to take it from his drawer , set it up connecting it to its pillar , and make it be automatically activated .
so he photoed himself or ramona or some visitors .
ill develop the film when i become healthier he told his visitors .
they saw he was joyfully talking about his craft .
since ramonas first visit , the photographer has wondered why should this woman bother herself and care for him .
he could understand that in hospital , maybe it was because of elkanobut the guy had passed away .
she has no commitment to a man who had been the father of her sweetheart .
therefore the question why ? still remains .
if i could only be sure , that her relation to me her nice behavior and goodcare and fonding manner derive from a deeper source , so he said to himself with a queer smile , then maybe ill believe in providence .
yes , from her manner of talking to him and her settled tone , solomon was feeling that she had intended to know about him more and more details as a personality with great life experience and capabilities and emotions and even if he was an anti religious person , he had a humanistic belief and observation even about my political opinions she has already inquired he told himself , it was in her last visit in hospital .
she was interested to know many things about me though she still endevoured not so ask much about my past marriage life , with elkanos mother but im forty five now , and not so healthy .
who knows what would happen to me next year and she is only thirty , maybe thirty one .
i hope to return soon to my shop .
she understands well that i am mentally hurt a bereaved person can never recover but shes also a bereaved woman .
she understands what it is .
no , a son is different from a husband .
oh , fate is laughing a young widow with a bereaved elder man .
it might be an interesting psychological case , if o.k. , well very soon see how and to where it develops .
no , i harness the wagon before the horses and what does nahumik know about his mother and my son ?
surely , he had suspected something but if i return to my recent thought i dont have patience now for adapting a child like him .
gott in himmel god in sky kaplansky added to himself the town in which i was born katovitce , is not so far from ramonas native town .
our whole meeting story is a crossing point of events .
like the whole universe that was created in the type we know it , had been by joint natural events , occasional events , taking very many milliards of years .
i have read it in the book about the nature and creation of the universe .
it says about the creation of life that from time to time , occasionally , a small deviation from the existing norm or shape of some creature , would cause a new type to develop , that hasnt existed before .
so with chemical reactions , that some of them appear by rear chance .
scientific people know better than myself how to describe all that in detail .
on her next visit to kaplanskys house , ramona discerned some albums with his photographs on the table .
weinberg brought that from the photographing shop .
many weddings and parties and shows were seen there , and also extensions and improvements made from bad originals .
i was asked , said kaplansky to make an old lady younger , or got other such joking tasks .
but thats the job of a photographer , who wishes to get paid and live .
when mr. weinberg came to visit him again , he was bringing soda powder .
ramona heard from him , that a spoon of that powder would be good for solomon .
whenever he may feel a pressure in his chest , she should put this into a cup of water and even mix it with some suger .
after drinking that liquid , solomon will hiccough , what will release his chests pain .
ramona remained alone with solomon .
maybe this is the due moment , she told herself , to announce that i have loved elkano very much , and that i am not going to abort his baby , which is in my womb .
at first i hesitated to decide that , until i have come to know solomon its already the third month , that i have no sign of menstruation !
im going to keep the embrio .
i love it already , knowing that elkano would have kissed me fervently for that i dont demand anything but ill tell solomon .
i dont know what to do if he would say he doesnt know what has happened i must talk to him delicately .
that he wont get into panic .
because god forbid what if he suspects that the embrio is from another mans sperm at all , and i trick him ?
no .
i wont tell him yet about this pregnancy .
maybe the mentruation will soon reappear it has been long delayed , because of all the tension and excitement around .
yes , maybe i am quite in panic .
recently i dont sleep well .
i refuse to admit it .
my eyes are burning .
my self balance is not as it seems from outside to be .
i am troubled by bad thoughtsor maybe what bothers me are my visits in kaplanskys apartment .
i try to style what ill tell him when he recovers and permitted to get back to work .
i must mention to him , that his sons seed is inside me from the news about the death of the horse he was not too excited .
he had beenn in hospital and i discovered to him that nahumik was coming to feed the horse .
the boy had liked to do it , as he was riding it almost every day .
i added that he certainly had known that the horse was dear to nahumik , it was like a connecting wire to elkanos memory i cant prevent from further arrivals in solomons home , she added to herself .
i can find thousand arguments against that but i would fail .
i am simply attracted by this man .
nahumik has already paid attention to that .
for that reason he repeatedly said , that solomon had been making and faking some photos of the missing soldiers .
in the boys view it was not important what had been solomons reason for that .
maybe he had a good intention to plant hope in the parents of those missing soldiers after the war ill take care to try and repair my sons erroneous views about some topics and events of our life .
i am feeling that my attraction to and taking care of solomon are not only due to my mad love or deep sadness regarding elkano .
its a separate subject , standing alone i begin to love this mature suffering man .
and i know he is a strong , and will get out of his illness .
every evening when i leave him alone at home , and he reminds me that i have to go , i have a feeling that i should continue .
if not the hens , that i have to take care of , i would come also in the morningswhy suddenly i recollect of a sentence that i had said to myself , when the overwhelming news about my husbands death has arrived ?
if i could only take care of him , and see him dying in my hands .
then i would have felt better .
its a futility , what im telling myself and i couldnt have taken care of elkano .
he was killed who knows how and where .
just exploded and burnt , without becoming injured .
dead at once .
his flesh and blood and bones and brain were mixed with his comrades limbs , and that was all oh god !
i feel that solomon is viewing life and death from a similar standpoint to mine .
who knows .
i still postpone my very serious talk to him and i feel that very soon he will tell me , that i am the best thing that happened to him for a long time .
chapter 24 ramona and solomon knew each in his own way that their love would prosper .
it is reasonable , you may say , because we are dealing with a written novel .
but it was coming from heart and soul and physical attraction and from the riddle of wish to wrap the wounds with some marvellous ointment .
the idea of re loving process seized ramona by the roots of her hairs .
solomon just told her , boldly and directly you are tremendously marvellous , ramona .
had i been younger i would have courted you , and you dont have to tell me how your feeling is but i feel that your feeling is not far from mine .
otherwise you would have known to get away .
ramona knew that her first son would be a problem .
nahumik has become a grown up boy .
his mind is older in some years than his actual physical bodys age , so she thinks .
he had seen the ghost of death walking here with his curved scythe , declaring that the one who wants to survive should struggle against him .
so , nahumik has already an obscure knowledge , that the ideals of gods justice and human honesty and searching for knowledge of an ultimate truth would not be enough for living , without smart and cunning maneuvres but i fear not from nahumiks losing his pasts plenty of innocence , but from his behavior to me when he will know clearly about my relationship with solomon .
he has already felt it .
ill tell him today , that his suspicion is justified .
but mom , you know he is a lier .
he had made a joke from the bereaved parents .
nahumik told her .
even if he manipulated something about the photos , she answered , which i dont believe it had been because he wanted to save those families some more weeks of deep pain .
you repeat what youve already said , trying to defend him .
nahumik showed her his impatience , almost shouting .
but maybe , she answered , solomon hoped , that somehow a few of the misssing fellows would be found and he had not thought about a boy like you , who would pursue his unconventional way of trying to decrease the horrible blow and then even blame him for mere wickedness .
i only want to warn you , mom , nahumik said , becoming nice again , trying to rationalize , he is a sick man , in body and in mind and may ruin you and me .
take that into account you know , that elkano was your friend , she said suddenly , and dont you think that maybe he had also acted sometimes as he should not have ?
she stopped all of a sudden , grabbing her mouth with her palm .
maybe the boy himself was thinking about the ethical qualities of his young friend .
he doesnt need the interferance of his mother in that .
i know that mom is right saying that thought nahumuk after he had left ramona and entered his bed .
ill never worship anyone .
as i am aware now maybe my friendship with elkano was like a blind worship .
..
but he was wonderful , anyway the days passed quickly , and solomon was not any more being chained to his house .
he returned to the photography store and customers began to re appear and request his artistic camera .
ramona continued to visit him in the evenings , and he would tell her who were his clients and what some people were saying .
some of the visitors were bereaved people like him .
they continued their grief every moment and were wandering , so they mentioned , how he could work with seemingly relative tranqulity and calm mind .
he was even trying to condole and cheer up other bereaved people , who would come to his store , telling i dont see a reason to continue living , and weep before him .
nahumik was with ramona in the shop , while kaplansky told them that .
ramona wanted the boy to say hello to the man , whose work was revived and his business had become better than ever though deeply in his heart solomon did not like that , as we will see later .
but for the tima being the boy heard him already calling his mother in a nickname ramonka .
the ka suffix to her private name was a proof of liking the person , at these days .
as the ik was fonding suffix to the name nahum .
ramona seemed even happy for her nickname and after a while kaplansky began to discuss with her the matter of selling the hens coop .
she didnt show that she would oppose the idea .
the number of hens has decreased recently to half than it had been before , and she wasnt buying new little ones .
she doesnt see any sacred elemnt in holding them , she said .
if she had another working place , that her earning could be increased she would be satisfied .
but talking with me about all that , ramona told solomon , after longly kissing him , ten or more times , lets talk about a more serious matter .
she laughed , trying to let him be impressed that she is not so serious , but even frivolous .
okey , said solomon , let me hear what it is .
i am pregnant from your son , elkano , godll revenge his death .
well , i could have imagined that , said the man , who has become pale , and she didnt know if he was joking or serious .
we have lied a few times .
i thought so .
it does not matter to me how many times .
is it not important for you to know more ?
asked ramona and he felt her embarrassment .
i would have been happy for him .
woe to us , having arrived to all that .
what can y o u tell me now , about all that ?
she asked .
i understand well .
what i want to tell you now is that i propose to you .
if you agree to marry me , then howwhere ?
can we fix the wedding date ?
you know , that im not thirty years old , ramonka .
maybe you have to get just a younger man than myself .
i dont recommend myself as young , you know .
i will give you some more time to think about my proposal !
no , i dont need time .
i want you , my darling .
they kissed again and again , i will take care for the baby , boy or girl , that youll bear , he whispered .
ill be a wonderful father and grnadfather !
what do you say about that , my dear sweetheart ?
and in the future we will have real joint children , maybe ill be a real father again .
sorry for this complicated situation .
no one can bring elkano back to life .
so i must , and willingly , replace him this is a strange discussion , she said , i mean your saying that this is a complicated situation .
i think it can be reasonably handed .
i appreciate solomons generosity and his sincerity , she told herself again .
hopefully ill feel his true love for long .
no , no need of other sentimental words this time the matter is really serious , he cut her thoughts , so , well , lets .
do what is needed .
you certainly understand , she said , that i strongly believe in you , dear solomon .
that is due to the qualities that i have seen in elkano and you have raised him , educated him , and made him a man like he was would i have doubted your character , i would not have presented myself every day at you door , and bother you so much , my dear .
i hope you werent irritated .
they kissed shortly , and the photographers fingers were suddenly grabbing his shirt by the chest .
she asked if hes all right , and he answered that he had been feeling a little pressure there , in his chests center .
not straight in the heart at the leftbut the doctors said , that his heart almost hadnt been hurt .
and that if a man in his age is not too obese or having a high blood pressure , the heart will be remedied .
doc priver told me you will be soon be like a new man said solomon .
he wrote for me a medical receipt for a very new pill for the heart .
you put it under the tongue , and that improves your feeling immediately .
wonderful glitzeryl pills for the weak heart !
he smiled , telling ramona that his pain had disappeared .
chapter 25 the wedding of solomon and ramona took place on the roof of the brown house , in a late afternoon hour .
the participants were three of ramonas woman friends and four of kaplanskys friends and clients , dr. priver , mr. weinberg , and another bereaved parent .
rabbi abraham rinik and beadle izaak husitcher accomplished the males count to ten minyan so is the jewish tradition instruction for having a kosher wedding ceremony .
of course , the boy nahumik was attending it also , but no one of his friends .
mikes father was invited , but he said he had no friendly relations with the photographer or with ramona , so why should he bother ?
nahumiks rabbi came also .
however it was after the breaking glass gesture by the bridegroom not as a sign for breaking the virginity of the bride ramona but as a sign for the destuction of jerusalems temple .
aaron hittin rushed back to the exit very soon , aplogizing that a new pupil was waiting , to having an interview with him .
nurse tsipy was one of the attendants of the wedding , also being there for a very short time .
she came in her white sisters uniform and white head dress , and rushed back to the clinic house .
she said that an alert had been declared by the army , as a multitude of injured and dead were still streaming from the southern front .
a big military operation has been taking place in the negev , and schools plus other public buildings might be needed for the lightly injured .
the two other womean friends of ramona , had criticized not confronting her but beforhand her decision to hold the embrio in her womb and to marry kaplansky .
they didnt know for sure what we know , that solomon was the grandfather .
ramona would deny to them that she had been pregnant to elkano .
but in the wedding ramonas friends laughed with her and tried to pretend that life is as usual , and that the photrographer looks vividly and fresh , so they said .
if she really loves him and became so easily pregnant for catching him god be with her .
in those moments of small talk , ramona thought its interesting that my friends , who were going out with me to the cinema till a few months ago , dont imagine that the american movies had a hand in all this .
but from now on its obvious , that i will watch the movies with my husband , solomon .
yes , he likes to analyse the photographical and technical aspects of each movie , in addition to the structure and quality of dialogue or music , and so on .
now , i should finish with my hens and their eggs , and ill not be sorry .
enough with being enslaved by the hens coops .
ill have to take care of a baby .
chapter 26 at that time the war stopped in the eastern mountains front .
the boy blessed the sudden calm atmosphere and the quiet feeling , as the noises of shooting and shelling and alarm have ceased .
but nahumik was not quiet , due to a turn felt in his mothers attitude to him ramona told him that their dwelling location will change solomon kaplansky had known that his arrivals at her home was not well for the boys psychology , as his room was linked to her bedroom .
so , the boy was aware of whispers and movements in the bedroom , while the married couple had been together there for three or four times .
the best solution would be , said ramona , that she and nahumik both move to kaplanskys apartment , which is bigger than her house .
the boy will have a separate room there .
the toilet and some veranda is at the middle of the photographers apartment , so that the boy will hardly know anything about the time that the couple is lovemaking , or hear any of their talks encouraged by her husband , ramona was hanging notes in two kiosks and two grocery stores and in migdalors caf and also hired an advertisment in the newspaper , saying as follows for sale a farm of henscoops in this town .
please contact ramona , at kaplanskys photo store etc .
two weeks later , there was found a buyer to the coops .
the boy was at school at the time of the hens removal they were gathered , tied in their feet , in order to be taken to small cocks cages .
when nahumik came back home from school all was over .
only the wooden and tin coops , including the drinking and feeding troughs have remained .
ramonas pregnancy has been already seen then , and all her acquaintances admitted that she should have sold her hens .
she told them that she had been too much bothering with the coops , all her matured life and now she was feeling a relief .
taking care of living creatures said ramona was a bothering and a permanent listening to whistles and to other noises and suddenly youd wonder how you could have lived with that .
she would need a good relax , she said .
enough with the memory of her first husband , who loved to work with his hands , and she was disciplined and went in his way , but thats the end of it .
she is not sore due of it , of course , having a living creature in her womb .
sister tsipy asked ramona if she is ready to work as a caretaker of babies till she would bear her own baby .
she refused , though knowing that many new comers were arriving then to the new state , and she could be of help .
but she preferred to sit at her new home or in the photography store , and wait for someone to arrive , in order to sell him the old house at that time kaplansky had already told ramona that he thought about leaving their town .
to where will they move ? he did not mentioned , but she would be ready to join him to anywhere he would go .
on the other hand , nahumik was showing a lot of signs of discontent from losing the status of an only child of ramona .
kaplansky had perceived it , and was trying to befriend him and be liked by him .
he brought nahumik several presents , one of them a tiny leika camera .
in this opportunity , he asked dear nahumik , would you like to study photographing , one day ?
you wont be my teacher for anything , replied the boy angrily .
he did not touch the camera .
why are you talking to me like that ?
solomon asked him , in rebuke , what happened ?
what have i done ?
nahumik was silent , and walked red faced out of the room .
next friday solomon brought him a new hat , with an arched cap shade the boy had known that the competitors horse riders were used to wear such a hat very tightly , in order to prevent wind from blowing , and causing the hairs to hide the race course and their adversaries riders on their sides .
nahumik took the hat and immediately threw it aside .
no , thank you , he said its only for horse riders and it will remind me poor horsy that i want to forget .
nahumik got out of the room , while solomon kaplasky and ramona were gazing at him with wonder .
nahumik was thinking about the horse , that was used mainly by elkano since then , so nahumik remembered even after many years , he was exposing his rage on his mother .
sometimes she would go alone to see her husband in the photo gallery , and leave him in his room or in the kitchen .
then he would shout at her why have you disappeared without telling me ?
then he would add you dont love me any more i know !
my dear son , dont talk stupidly .
she would answer , you know i love you as i love myself .
you have been my life till now , but you have to know that now we have become a bigger family , and youll soon have a brother or sister .
think like a grown up , and i know you are clever .
be considerate about my situation .
she would embrace him like in his babyhood and though he did not weep , he felt better .
but in one evening he screamed , so that solomon would also hear him i despise everything here .
home , school , rabbi , photography .
maybe , told him ramona , you want to join the orphanage institute , that some of its inhabitants are your classmates in school ?
no , no !
he cried , and feared that perhaps kaplansky had already proposed that idea to her .
so , he told himself .
from now on i have to be careful about my tongue .
ramona asked also the rabbi to talk to nahumik about his behavior .
he said that probably a religious educational board school will be best for the boy .
she thanked him for his advice , and knew she would have to deal with the problem by herself .
a week later she has told solomon nahumik has really begun to be carefull about his talk lately .
he is afraid well really let him alone somewhere .
nahumik was meditating about the brother or sister he was going to get .
he understands , he said to himself that solomon wants that baby .
so nothing could be done against that .
but what mike has told me just yesterday , was amazing .
the bringing of a child to this world is a profanity , a very rude , ungentle act .
a man fucks a woman in her front hole in her ass , exactly like a dock or dog or ox or dock does with its female .
and they are enjoying that .
oooops , i cant believe it i said to mike .
you exaggerate .
so the liar , unmannered , cruel man , solomon kaplansky has taken my mom for his flesh pleasure , and all this talking about love is a lie , as mike said .
i see its like solomons other lies , that i know about !
he took my mom to be his wife , without taking me into account .
and im still a child , who needs his mother and cant live by himself .
he intends to make me a poor living creature in an orphanage , like in the book of dickens , that i have read recently .
oh , god kaplansky and his baby will surely be preferred by mom , theyre now dearer to her than me ...
but i will stand strong .
ill hold my position and struggle , i must .
i hope that my mother will not be so cruel .
she has been with me all these years and wouldnt forget that .
even animals dont throw away their dear ones .
the situation is bad for me than before , but worse that this is to lie in your grave or in a brethern grave ramona signed a sale contract of her house with all the small properties around it .
the man who bought it was called woola wolf .
he had known judah ramonas husband , and reminded her that he had been one of the two meklers agents , who sold that house and ground to judah , ramonas first husband .
it was roundabout twelve years ago , was it ? he asked .
after ramona had received her check for her sold property , sge remaind alone in the room and recollected how her relationship with her judah had begun she was living in her aunts flat in prague , arriving there from her native small town .
her purpose was to study in university , despite her fathers contradiction and protest .
he was a rabbi , and afraid of modern spirits .
but he was symphasizing the small jewish zionist association in his shtetl , and was paying membership fee .
ramonas mother encouraged her studies , saying that the girl is talented , and in the big city of prague she may find a handsome and good natured bridgroom .
yes , there she had really met the youth who later on came to be her husband .
their first meeting took place in an evening of folklore dancing in the unniversity he was a well structured guy , with thick hair and strong hands .
his nose was a straight one , not characteristic to jewish eagle nose .
judah was an excellent dancer , and had a broad smile and thoroughly penetrating look .
he was a very serious kind of youth , practical about leading his life forward as he said .
he had a delicate sense of humor , and told ramona that he had not come for the dancing per se but also for looking at the nice jewish girls here , though the dances are slovaks and he was happy to know that she is jewish .
but not only his legs were well shaped and strong , also his hands were such .
i will use them , he said in their first meeting , just when i get my immigration certificate , to be allowed to reach palestine erets israel first time she was discussing with a guy along two complete hours .
she wrote about that to her mother , and hoped for continuation of their talks .
later on she learned his opinion how desparate had been the situation of the jews in europe , and he mentioned what hitler has done already was only the beginning .
he is so cruel , not only for having reputation as a sensational politician .
if we he pointed on himself and on ramona dont run out of here , we are stupids and doomed to be dead .
come with me to the land of israel .
i have a knowledge of the agriculture .
i was in a zionist farm in poland , and saw that cultivating a farm will make me feel good .
i propose to you , dear ramona .
dont let me go by myself to make a living maybe because of his direct words , that were simple , clear cut , decisive she had soon agreed .
they were married still in chechoslovakia and their parents attended the wedding ceremony with many other relatives .
when they arrived in palestine , judah had enough money to procure a simple bricks house with a small coop , which he extended afterwards .
he taguht ramona how to handle the chicken , feed them , and when they become hens gather their eggs and if necessary bring them to the butchery then judah volunteered to the jewish brigade , and never returned .
a week after ramonas house had been sold , nahumik was strolling in its desrted courtyard .
maybe because of that , he had understood very well the poem that ramona would write five years later , and show him home is the place to where i will myself take even at the time in which it wont exist any more .
the home of my childhood was growing a snake but i will be longing to it despite tears and sore .
i miss it , like i miss my pa , that to him it was clear he should follow the angel of abyss without a fear .
and though i try to drive him out of my dream , he has remained in my consciousness stream .
in the new apartment nahumik was satisfied with his new room .
but one night , after he had waked up to piss , he went barefooted to the toilet .
through the narrow wall he became curious , while listening to some loud debate that ramona was having with solomon that makes me wonder , said ramona .
what are you hinting ?
that i had forgotten her ?
maybe .
you have hardly mentioned her once .
leave me alone , said solomon , dyou want to remind me of a woman whos passed away ?
you behave and talk like you havent ever been married .
like you havent lost your wife , and never mournedeven her memory .
didnt you love her ?
oh , please , stop that .
kaplansky said in a low voice .
and maybe also all your passionate words of love and desire and sympathy to me had been also just pretence ?
something that your mouth utters , but inside your heart its not really meaning anything !
maybe you cant fall in a fervent love in your age and health situation ?
oh , no .
i dont mean it .
but you can you should can you understand me , in my situation ? can you also perceive my position regarding your behavior ?
enough is enough !
nahumik heard the photographers harsh voice and he got out very quietly from the toilet room , just thinking why he was so confused .
what he had not heard , were the next sentences of kaplansky i restrain my grief .
if you had heard me talk about elkano , it was because you had been involved and i wont talk about my familys disaster .
i swear i want only to face the future not look back to the dead past .
it should be buried .
this is my point of view , and you know that .
i am not strong enough to weep and break my heart .
i am an atheist and anti ceremoniac i wont strike my chest with my fist , to show god that i beg from him not to be punished but forgiven .
i despise those jews who do that , seeming to tell god that their sins were tiny , and they were worthy to have his mercy nahumik told himself , that it could not be that kaplansky had not loved his wife .
otherwise he would hate elkano .
though mom was partly right in what she said i have never seen his wifes photograph anywhere .
.. maybe mother asked him also about that , and he gave her his usual argument why he should not bother with his past mom told me , that solomon wanted to forget many bad things , that happened to him recently , in this country .
thats all about .
not that in any other place he would have had better life or chance , she said .
but its too hard for him here , so he was telling her .
he could just collapse from all his reminiscenses it was a lie , added nahumik to himself , what ive heard him just telling mom .
like his other lies .
he had manipulated photos and documents he is a negative person , and his son elkano had worshipped and loved him too much .
maybe solomon was the killer of his first wife ?
who knows .
i warned mother from him .
hopefully after this nights debate she takes it more seriously .
but no !
she cant , shes already married to him .
maybe shell send him to a mind diseases physician , who is called a psychiatrist .
chapter 27 this was the last month of ramonas pregnancy .
the boy was having the meals with his parents in silence .
he did not interfere in their talks .
kaplansky was telling ramona , how many more people had come to his shop on that day , to order a repair and or copy old photos of their beloved ones mainly dead soldiers .
he would avoid asking them who and where .
other people like ramona had done just a year before , would arrive in his shop with pictures from the pre nazi era , also requesting to re shape them .
im a leech , complaineid solomon , a person whos making his living from the dead .
i hate it .
i wont do that for long .
ive already declared i will take all of us out of this mud .
but yesterday you told me , said ramona , that you had a joyful job , to take some shots of new comers .
they were standing near their new hut , that the government has deliverd them .
or also you have taken photos of some wedding all were smiling thereyouve said with a hope on their faces then youve added o.k. , maybe they really bring some hope to us .
yes , by us ive meant the majority of population , not including our small family .
nahumik was smiling inside himself from the tragic humor hidden in kaplaskys words .
then he heard him saying , while he had shown ramona some paragraph from the famous newspaper davar meaning a talk its very sad what a politician had said to the soldiers , who are still fighting in the bloody southern front .
its a cursed enigmatic saying our defenders were very few , but their spirit had blocked the breaches .
a hutspa of a man to talk like that my sons spirit had been destroyed , it didnt block anything !
solomon was stretching his hand like a speaker , and his face became furious .
oh , dear solomon , said ramona , why blame anybody ?
a politicians task is to say something like that for the newspapers .
some readers would like to read it the paper does not suffer pain from anything printed .
you have to remember , that young men , especially soldiers , like very much to hear that they are appreciated as heros .
they love such words , that would give hope and bring their victorious message .
thats the nature of mankind , isnt it ?
why disparage that ?
i swear , he said , that i would also like to be a resilient and hopeful optimist .
but i cant .
yes , the leaders think that most people understand they are right , and so all are ready to sacrifice themslves for even a vague future .
the so called leaders think , that they are taking an excellant care of the situation but no .
and prime minister ben gurion soon will bring here a million of jews , from the european survivers and from the arab countruies .
he will throw them all here into a storming sea of starving and ignorance , and order them to swim ?
listen to what solomon is trying to say , remarked ramona , turning to her son .
nahumik was pretending not to hear he was counting his glass balls for playing at school .
he was afraid that his mom would snatch them from him , and just put them back into his trousers pocket .
he nodded .
what do you think , ramonka , about escaping from here ?
solomon asked his wife , all of a sudden .
where will all the new comers to israel find even a black bread , or a rotten onion ?
we should run out of here .
dyou hear me , nahumik ? !
with our new baby , that will be born soon .
you will join us , boy .
we have already talked about that myself and your mother .
ramona nodded , and looked at her son , whose face had reddened out of fury .
no , no !
i would not come with you , shouted the heart bittered boy , i like this little town , and its people .
i love my scoolmates , and the orchards , and the woods .
and you both just despise everything , and throw mud on the land , on the leaders , and on the people .
i hear your discussions and understand .
i am not a baby any more , ma .
we will go to america , big boy , said the photographer rudely , i am a good photographer since a long time ago .
i have a great experience and capability .
i will enter the film industry one day .
you like movies , dont you ?
maybe one day ill even become a film producer .
the principle is keeping a good , thrilling plot and ensure that its structured well , and developes with a movement of conflicts toward some top .
so it will appeal to the audience .
i understand the material very thoroughly , and ill succeed for sure .
i have found some friend there .
a fire of hatred was burning in nahumiks eyes .
he looked at kaplansky and at his mother , rose from his seat , took out his glass balls , and rushed out to his room .
he wanted to be alone , to play by himself , hear the ball glasses collide with each other in a noise , and scatter on the floor his tears were streaming shortly , and he wiped them , silently mumbling and cursing the devil will take you .
that curse he had learned at school .
his teacher agreed the pupils would use it , being not too much abusive or profane a day after that nahumik discovered to rabbi aron that his new father would cause him and his family to leave israel .
when ?
asked rabbi aaron , today ?
within half a year , nahumik said .
and they have ordered me to stop studying here .
from now on .
he dropped his eyes .
they also said , that instead of talmud , i will begin learning english and the time is short , as soon we have to leave .
i dont suggest you would run away from your mom , shot rabbi aron his tough words , she had taken care of you and fed you and educated youan irresponsible step .
i mean , to have such a new husband , a criminal and corrupt , that for a few dollars would emigrate to sinful america .
part 3 chapter 28 recently kaplansky had been very busy with his old screenplay .
after two years of complaints that his mind had been blocked about finding the correct structure of the film , now he was sure that he should show the whole creative script to a well known scriptwriter , who would help him .
that man had an experience of three western movies in hollywood .
one of my main reasons for emigrating to u.s. solomon told benjy wachfogel was to study film photographing , and also to be working in the industry .
however , the course of events had deviated from my main road .
i had opened a photo store , having there good photo machinery and equipment .
my success in that had blinded my eyes .
i have almost forgot my target .
but now i want to return to the project , in which i had invested my soul .
i hope to be the photographer assitant in the movie , that i have accomplished this first draft for it .
im ready to invest one hundred thousands bucks in developing a film out of this .
you call it preproduction , i think .
when we will come to producing i hope the producer would be helped by angels to do the real job they would smell if the plot and characters and dialogues and structure and whole story are not only acceptable , but have an amazing chance of being marketed inside and outside u.s. solomon was telling all this to mr. benjy , and the man was curious about solomons c.v. so he heard about his son elkano , who had been a very capable photographer and well known horse rider and sportsman .
he was handsome like any actor that you could find in present and past movies .
his soul was rich and his passion was great , and he was having a wonderful capability to be sociable .
yes , he had his own trouble of teenage , and that dragged him to adventures .
he fell in love with a beautiful woman , intelligent and cultured as well , who had read and still reads literature , including difficult poetry , understands the fine arts , and is an ardent watcher of various movies she is now my wife , said solomon very proudly , called ramona , introduced her to the scriptwriter and they shook hands .
i understand , that your son has fallen in the war , said benjy , and that youve based your draft screenplay on his short life .
my wife was pregnant to him , and we have together taken care to raise the child here .
said solomon .
thats also a part of the plot .
well , let me read your script .
within three or four days well start working on it , and see what we can do .
the most terrible scene here is photos of missing soldiers from a famous battle , that suddenly begin to pass from hand to hand in the village , or call it small town .
the photos are blurred , badly taken .
everybody sees in them his heartwish , not the objective terrible reality .
benjy understood everything and next week returned to solomon with two pages full of general comments , as he defined them im doing that , so that you will well prepare yourself for other comments , that a producers may smear on you .
film production is a very tough business .
most of films fail in the market , you know .
they dont cover the cost of production .
okey .
now about the central concept expressed in this script its too psychological and full of too much talks , like in a russian novel .
a film should show pure action , thats the first rule .
the plot should not be complicated as in a novel , and it should not be crowded with too many charactars .
you should cut most of the crowdy scenes my disappointmnet from your message derives also from the too much symbolic scenes , from episodes that sometime seem to make the watcher become outrageous , and from too much political debates and issues can you give me an example ?
asked solomon .
yes .
there is a very difficult scene to watch about nightbirds and then eagles and voltures surfing above and around the corpses of the soldiers , that had sacrificed their lives .
after that , in daytime , there are coming schakals and fixen and other wild beasts , beating and eating limbs of the dead heroes noses and ears and hairs and cheeksthese are too much .
we dont wish our watchers to get a psychological shock or nerves collapse .
the same comment is valid for exaggeratd scenes , showing the sadness of the bereaved parents and other relatives of the brave men .
its better to diminsh some !
all that is an unefficient and un necessary exaggeration , okey ? .
..
i mean , imagine a family member of those sacrifices , who would go and see all that in theater he would feel that you play scenes on his soul .
solomon asked just another example , and began to see his movie fly in the dust , at least cut to pieces .
your attitude toward the leader , ben gurion seems to me unacceptable .
you just claim that he had sent your son to be killed in vain , without a fustified purpose .
sir , you show this israeli prime minister cutting branches in a forest , with a sparkling ax !
then he is cursing a crowd of some politiocians who come to his office , requesting him not to declare the state of israel .
you then have a scene , showing general marshal u.s. then secretary of defence , who says the same !
the average watcher in u.s.nowadys or in israel , sees ben gurion as a very great statesman .
he had rescued his nation , having succeeded in fighting against seven arab states .
so , if the americans would refuse to watch such a filmt , you can forget about producing it .
solomon had no choice .
he agreed to all the adjustments and repairing steps the screenplays expert had suggested .
within an additional month the script copies were in the hands of three producers .
one has agreed to persuade a director and some jewish films angels in hollywood to undertake solomons life effort to preproduction .
the producer had begun to search actors and actresses for the film , and announced it in some magazines and on the radio and even on tv program .
we tell all that complicated story , for one reason solomon suggested to humik to come back to la .
he , his pa in law , who appreciates very much his knowledge from first source about the period in which the story had taken place and having recognized and loved the lead character he , humik , should be the actor who will personify the protagonist , elkano .
wise solomon had presumed that his son in law will not hesitate .
humik might think that it is a trick to get him back home and avoid him even thinking to join the israeli army in the coming months .
but it is not reasonable that he would resist to have a chance becoming a hollywood star .
so , solomon wrote to humik that the lead actors salary will not be less than one hundred bucks , and he , solomon , would add to it twenty thosand .
such a big deal will base humiks future , and if he is enough oriented to accept that proposal , he should come back and try to push himelf .
of course , nobody can promise an absolute success , and if it is not good in his eyes he will be able to quit .
god bless him , and piece upon israel .
humik fell now into a morbid mood .
he saw himself torn by an unresolved conflict .
he re read solomons letter , and believed that his mom and solomon had written it quite sincerely .
they really thoughtb that there were at least fifty percents of chance that he would win the main role in that film .
you are very handsome , they said , and you know even the characters way of speaking .
you will read the story and understand thoroughly what has to be shown in detail .
youll will pass an auditioning process , that is a screen test in order to let the producer and director know if you are capable to become a star but even if another actor is chosen , you will be toghther with us a well paid consultant to the direcctor about technical matters choosing statitsts for some shots , hiring vehicles that have existed at the war time , and so on after two sleepless nights humik decided that because he had always hated illusions , he should immediately order a sailing ticket to israel .
he had not found it necessary or reasonable to answer solomon by a detailed refusal letter .
he only told his mother on the phone , that he did not believe in what solomon had written about the future film and immediately banged the phone .
ramona heard from simone about the departure of raphaella from himik , and was worried .
she tried to find humik , and talk to him again about his refusal to solomons proposal , but in vain .
he is really still a boy .
she said to herself .
i thought that moving to ny would bring to him self control and recognition of reality , but no it seems that all his life hell feel bad with himself , if he does not try his chance to reunite with his motherland .
what can i do ?
i have to find him , surely .
but now he had disconnected his phone line or changed the phone number in his hired room .
meanwhile raphaella found enough courage and willpower in herself to send a short postcard to humik , and explain what has happened maybe at the first moment you will be upset , she wrote , but your anger will pass , im sure .
you can relate to our close friendship as a beautiful adventure and ill strongly appreciate it i am really sorry , for having disappeared from your sight so soon .
but the circumstances had forced me doing that .
okey i could have done it not by the phone .
but whats the difference ?
so , i have decided to return to my previous boyfriend , who is now getting on the right track .
he is nathan , that youve heard about .
i am sorry if you had pains , but please understand id only asked myself why a couple should end like that , said humik to himself , well .
stand strong and be healthy , dear raphaella .
i have seen that you are a precious kind of grown up woman .
im sure that youre doing the best for yourself .
i wish you all the best .
a day after he phoned to the peepshow cellar manager .
the man told him that raphellas contract with him had been cancelled , and so both she and humik wouldnt get their last weekly salary .
yes , you are a new guy in this mess .
believe me if you find another girl whos fit for these shows , be my guests .
no , i can not bring anyone .
said humik , but please have pity on me .
i have no one in new york .
i must get that money .
okey .
because i am circumcized like you , and my papa was a hosid , a grand grandchild of great alexadry rabbi , ill tell you something .
the rabbi was saying it on a grave i always say the prayer therefore the owner of mercy so is the hebrew version of merciful will shelter , etc .
so , ill do like this rabbi and have pity on you .
come here and take your envelope .
i understand that youll come without her .
our effy had already reported me .
so , humik had to re gain his job with mike as travellers porter , carrying baggages mainly from ny airport or railway station to manhatten hotels .
mike was hiring his cab from a black man , paying him an hourly rate for using the car , all gasoline costs on him only big repairs would be on the owners account .
humik suffered again from his low earning rate , but thought he could still afford to finish his evening course .
raphaella has not returned there , and humik thought she was wrong in doing that .
but naitty had ordered her to stop .
maybe he was too suspicious of her , or maybe she would help him till late in his grocery minimarket .
two weeks afterward ny police caught drugs in the taxi , driven by mike .
humik was seated at his side as an assistant carrier .
the cab was driving on the line from the airport to the city and the guys went into that trouble just after passing the bridge , that would take them inside manhatten .
the cops halted the cab , taking mikes driving license .
both he and humik were also bodily searched , because narcotics were found in the cab .
they were hidden inside a suitcase lying in the cabs trunk , and over the drugs were found also faked bucks , maybe hundred thousands .
the driver and the carrier denied they had known the man who put the stuff there the suitcase owner , who had hired their taxi , had seen the cops from far .
he asked mike to stop and quickly fled out and succeeded hiding somewhere .
the cops attacked mike and humik , who had shown no signs of contradiction and revealed their papers .
mike had no previous condemnation but the policemen were very tough , and denied having seen the real smuggler running away into the streeet , along the opposite sidwalk .
he was a mexican or puerto rican or spanish , only the devil would know exactly .
humik was told he would be invited to the courts as a witness , though one of the cops told him , that he might be asked to to sign a written witness in police station .
mike had no american citizenship , and he might be sentenced to prison so said a lawyer , who had been hired by the poor guys for their defence .
one of mikes chauffeur friends presumed that the criminal had intended to change a default drug with a true and worthy drug , and that the big mafia was involved humiks mind was not bothered about a future trial .
if they let him go with a small penalty , like the lawyer had said , that would be finel .
now he thanked kaplansky for his effort years ago to arrange him an american citizenship .
but his israeli citizenship is still also valid .
god will do what is good in his eyes , so was humik citating to himself the sentence from the bible prophet samuel mike has gotten a stronger blow than myself .
he had died to be in wonderful united states for a long time .
now his hope might be cut .
he would hate to return to israel , where he should join the army .
he said that if so he was going to pretend mad , and bribe a psychiatrist .
mike sent a letter to the singer semadar in israel .
he wrote in his bad english the style and spelling partly corrected by his girlfriend that he was doing that , to remain in touch with you and please also tell gilla your sister , that i dont forget her .
im sure you both know , that i was working on a taxicab , and now i myself and humik had been caught by dirty cops for smuggling drugs it is a lie , we had nothing to do with that .
the criminal who had put his suitcase in my cab succeded to escape .
so we two had remained with the criminals suitcase , and maybe i myself will be set in prison .
humik may get a conditional prison verdict if he is caught again for same crime then he will be punished .
oh , my poor friends , said semadar to her sister .
now i will not write about that to tamy .
she is busy with her music studies and humiks life do not matter to her any more .
she had done very well , that shed departed from him .
what more did mike write to you ?
asked her sister , i see that the letter you are reading is quite long .
oh , he writes also , that humik seems to him insane .
he gave him to add here two sentences .
what did humik write ?
life is cruel .
sometime your face are cut by a razor , and you can do nothing .
bye bye , semadar , i may contact you or visit you when ill arrive in israel .
it will soon happen , hopefully .
ill let you know the exact date !
its humiks handwriting .
but why should he come here ?
asked hedwa .
wait , let me turn the letters page again mikes handwriting humik had a strange work , before he had returned to work with me , you wont believe its not a based information , but somebody had told me , that he had seen him with old women tourists , on the road of the jigolos .
i dont believe it .
so , we have queer jokes in america .
you can laugh on us , when i am really weeping at nights for my bad luck .
your friend mike .
the phone was ringing in caf ruth , where the sisters were .
semadar , a phone call for you , said a voice .
semadar spoke on the phone with erga lifshits , her musical boss .
she called her for a rehearsal of a new song that had just arrived , and erga liked it .
its words were as follows the shadows brought an evening message , the battalions rows fell down like waves .
our sweethearts had fallen in the wadi passage .
who would bring them to to their graves ?
as humik had disappeared from ramonas control , she tried to seach him wherever she could .
even to semadar in tel aviv she had phoned .
the singer told her that she had received mikes letter .
if mike and humik changed their phones line ramona should write to mike an express postcard .
if by good luck humik wont be at the postbox on the ground floor , mike will get the letter and phone to calm her .
ramona sent the express letter , but she did not receive any phone call from mike .
she could not sleep well , thinking about her big son , who was a special kind of a youth .
she was sure he had been strongly fascinated in his childhood by elkano , as well as by his rabbi aaron both characters had a bad impact on his teenage life its interesting , if he had imagined that elkano was dannys father .
or perhaps he still believes that solomon is the one i had made enormous efforts to become pregnant from solomon .
we went to the greatest birth problems professor in hollywood , but nothing now humik is on his way to israel , for sure .
his dream is to volunteer to the parachuters troops .
i hope that the physicians there find in him some ailment .
in his hand or foot , or wherever .
he might sacrifice his life , and we will be dropped into hell .
ive read in the los angeles times , that people in israel are talking about a second round of war with the arabs .
the independence war , that i had witnessed , was the first round .
the newspapers talk about war , as if it were a round of a football game .
as a result of the egyptian dictators self confidence , the odds for a new war break have risen , what a nice language .
but see what a pessimistic vision it has for israel .
unbribed viewers anticipate that the jewish state will not stand in a new war , after its crazy government had streamed the country with more than million mewcomers , having but poor dresses on their skins .
they were put into tents and tin huts that boil in summertime most of them are unemployed and now my elder sons ambition is in its heights .
he dances from joy on his way to the promised land .
cursed land , damned mother .
i am sleepless in my comfortable bed , trying not to wake mister kaplansky .
im frightened by my pounding heart , getting crazy from anger on myself .
i have not done enough to stop him still in ny .
last afternoon i was told that no israeli ship has sailed from ny port for about ten days .
not kedma ship , nor negba , nor best jerusalem .
i have had already a nightmare , that he would educate my little one danny to be like him .
humik might be a negative example !
can you understand ?
solomon , wake up !
she had told him her nightmare , and he calmed her , carressing her hair .
we will bring humik back .
dont worry so much .
danny will not be another ring of humiks chain but you continue to search him there , in new york .
phone again to simone send her again to his room or to the whorehouse .
there must be somebody who knows where he is .
he wont do anything to himself you , foolish girl , solomon ended his speech with a kiss in her cheek .
simone had gone back to the peepshow cellar , and found the guard effy at the gate .
he had already known that she was raphaellas aunt , and remarked that he also was a jew , like the guy who was performing here with your niece .
humik had gotten a fuck from her , he added , she is going to marry her ex courtier , who is my cousine .
what do i know about humik now ?
that hes arrived here a week ago , and received his last weekly salary .
his mom is afraid , that he intends to emigrate to israel .
i swear i aspire to do the same , smiled effy .
you see what kind of job ive here .
dyou think that going to israel would be a bad idea to a guy like me ?
im ready to undertake there any job .
the problem is , that i need also my cousin there .
you are mature enough , she said , to try first by your own .
whats the problem ?
i swear to you , that if you find there the guy nahum kaplansky , or nahumik , humik youll be paid .
if i could arrive there by an airflight , right away , straight ahead that would be fine .
but its depending on the sum that you or his mom , hand me to cover my costs , plus a small profit .
i have various ideas how to find him .
if youre in contact with his mother , please tell her about me , and give her my phone number .
ill write it .
effy wrote on a note , that he pulled out of his pants .
are you serious about going to israel ?
repeated simone .
of course , he said .
but i must have with me a big amount of rustling green papers .
i have to bribe him , make him crazy to fly back to la or ny .
in this moment , said simone , humiks mother is in a general psychological crisis .
by his kids behavior , humik discontacted himself from her .
you know , it happens with teenagers okey , let me have her phone number .
ill talk to her myself .
though a cardinal problem still remains my cousine .
okey , without him how much dyou request ?
asked simone .
if you hand me three thousand , i can bring humik back .
simone pulled a samll visit card from her purse .
she wrote ramonas phone number on it , and gave it to effy .
the guy had begun looking at the note , and his eyes balled while he was reading simone richland , actress. , entertainer , playing coach , adviser for the films industry .
contacts with studios , actors , directors and producers for any film genre .
effy was a simple guy , who was used to worship young actresses .
he decided to tell simone , that for her he would do everything possible .
he promised her to tell ramona that for two thousand bucks he would send a weekly report by telegraph or by mail , so that humiks family would know everything about his moves .
a day after , effy talked on the phone with ramona .
she promised to pay him thousand bucks , even if he wont bring her son back , but only get an evidence that humik is alive .
but if humik would contact his parents by his own initiative , without any involvement of effy in that effy should have to return five hundred bucks to ramonas lawyer in israel .
his name was malakhy benajahu and he lived in jerusalem .
ramona had no time nor nerves to argue with effy .
she immediately sent to him by telegram the necessary addresses and or phone numbers , of the following people , where presumably he could find humik mike in new york and in israel rabbi aaron , semadar , mikes parents .
ramona was now very busy in the photography store .
her husband was missing full days .
he went to hollywood , to produce or pre produce his film .
chapter 29 humik has met an ex israeli , josh kahansky , who was owning a restaurant together with mahmudin , an indian who was cooking there very sharp mexican and indian meat , mixed with a lot of curry , pepper and other sharp spices .
the indian was informed that humik would help him in cooking and waitering .
look at two visitors , who have just arrive , he told humik , they are wearing some airforce uniform , and seem to be from your native land .
theyve themselves told me that .
i wonder , because u.s.a. is not having any military relations with israel .
on the contrary our president eisenhour , and his foreign secretary dallas are against the strange tight alliance of israel with the british and french .
they doubt , so my magazine tells me they doubt if israel will survive after the next war .
oh , thats interesting , said humik , i am planning to be there very soon .
so you claim that i am doomed ?
will you be a pilot , maybe ?
asked the indian smart man .
no , just a simple parachutist , said humik .
i have known before , that youd jump out from the blue sky .
how could you know ?
i have read in new york times , that the number of israelis in palestine now is about two millions .
they have won a war against five hundred millions muslems .
it does not make sense i said unless they had some patent .
somthing supernatural , or what ?
if they still stay on this earth , its a sign that they have some trick how to escape , to fly over the clouds as soon as some trouble is imminent .
thats my opinion .
therefore you , and these guys , he pointed on the airforce officers , are paid such a high tribute by our newspapers .
however , my task as a good muslim , is to hope that your luck cycle will turn down .
one day will come a smart , prophetic man , like our nabbi muhamad .
he will take you down from the sky , by a wire , like you were a kite .
impossible , said humik .
i am a humble poet , nothing for such a man to appear is impossible .
once i had met rabindranat tagor .
he promised to publicize in his magazine two of my poems .
a huge spirit .
yes , mahatma ghandy was also great .
but he had not written beautiful poems .
tagor and ghandy had everlasting souls .
cursed be the muslem who had killed ghandy .
a crazy kashmirian murderer .
at last the sailing day arrived , and humik went on board the ship kedma .
he had with him a heavy backbag and an average suitcase .
he was wearing light , sportive dress , as it had been automn time , which was warm in most of the northern globe .
humik took with him four books first the full old testament in hebrew .
second the concised novel of war and peace by tolstoy , in english .
third fiesta the sun also rises by hemingway fourth an american novel in english maybe it was a tree growing in brooklyn by betty smith .
during the voyage , that took more than dozen days , he was generally feeling well though on the second day on sea he caught a head ache , and on the third he felt pain and nausea .
but he was satisfied that all had passed .
he had sufficient time to read some pages of hemingway and some chapters in the bible , about king davids relationship with bath sheba .
had king david lived in democratic america , he would have been gotten an electric chair for each of his big crimes first seducing and lying with a married woman then cheating uriah the poor womans husband , by bringing him to jerusalem , and trying in vain to bribe him to lie with his wife , so that the child that would be born wont not be officially a bastard .
then the corrupt king gave uriah a letter , addressed to his commanderin chief , joab , who was fighting against amon , ordering him to place uriah in front of the fiercest battle , so he will get killed life were never easy for leaders , not only for the simple people , said humik to himself .
or its the authors pleasure to tell you about it , and in reality better things had happened he was looking at the small bibles hard cover .
on its internal side was written his fathers name judah .
humiks mother , ramona , had given him the book before he had moved to ny .
she told humik that his father had refused to take it with him to world war , saying he would not have leisure time for reading it .
now he , humik , has that time .
next day he is going to read jonas , who was on a ship , like himself .
i am on board , and the small juta shed here is very useful , he thought .
ill read , seated on a comfortable chair , after getting a healthy sun burn on my back .
we dont know who exactly was humiks cabin mate on the ship , but he had one .
he told that to semadar afterward .
we know that he stopped reading , while this mate , who like mr. kaleda by somerset maugham , was a know all guy came near his placed and pointed aside , far away oh , look at that mountain on the left !
it is gibraltar .
so , morrocos coast is on our right .
humik took out a map from his bag .
looking from far distance gibraltars cape seems to be like the carmel mount , which is behind haifa port .
you are right , said the man .
i had been there only once .
i am from jerusalem , which is surrounded by mountains but has no beach .
the dead sea is not far from jerusalem , an hour drive .
but its a dead sea .
only sick people come there , for its minerals .
salty and hot like hell , and more .
chapter 30 when the ship arrived in haifa port , there was a tumult on board .
humik was among the first ones who were allowed to get down , as he had nothing to declare in the customs gates .
he walked to the bus station , after having crossed the wide port gate .
a man , waiting to somebody , told him you have to walk immediately to a bank .
change your dollars into israeli pounds it was long before the currencys name was changed to shekel .
you cant pay dollars to the bus driver .
he wont receive foreign currency .
its forbidden by the law .
humik did as he had been told .
he was already seated in the bus which was full of old women , standing on the passage , carrying bags and baskets and wearing queer kerchiefs on their heads againt the burning sun outside .
the man who had spoken to him before , now was also inside the bus .
he invited humik to sit next to him , and soon became the youths financial adviser .
remember , he told him , owners of vegetables and fruits stores and small sheds all prefer dollars .
but in the groceries half of the sellers are afraid from the police , and half like to arrange something , which is not called bribe .
that means everything is legal , if you are not caught .
israel is a socialistic state , as it had ever been .
the government and the people like uncle sam but not a young man like you .
it was an early hour of a warm afternoon .
humik got out of the bus and walked to dizengoff street in north of tel aviv , where semadar was dwelling .
he knocked at the front door .
she opened and was embracing the youth , then kissing him on his both cheeks , and he had done the same to her .
i did not know if i would find you at home , humik said in hebrew , but i have known that you might be here , as its not yet evening time .
oh , you have to thank god , she said , there had been such bad rumors about you .
what had they said ?
he smiled .
that you are in the underworld .
i mean dead .
also in the underworld of real criminals , as mike had written to me about faked dollars and so on .
but worse than all is that your mother is very anxious about you .
you havent written her for more than a month , she said .
why ?
oh , i had no wish to talk with my parents .
mike and myself changed the telephone number since we had been caught , you know .
too many friends and curious newspapermen began phoning .
who knows who else called maybe some criminals also .
we had thought maybe the poerto rican himself would like to threaten us , and things like that .
one day i felt that somebody was tracing me .
i guess , that this fact had been one of my main motives to arrive here in a rush .
you are clever , humik .
and youre a welcome guest .
she said .
i will prepare for us what we call cheeps , or fried potatoes .
ill fill oil in the frying pan .
well wait for it to boil and become brown .
but for me it shouldnt be too hot .
he said .
how had you been able to sail so soon ?
she asked , i know that a regular immediate ticket is expensive .
it had happened to me regarding the flight ticket , that erga lifshits had paid half .
i had bought my ticket a month ahead , and didnt tell anybody .
i understand , she said .
semadar was turning to the frying pan .
humik was looking at her nice , straight figure .
why have not i been attracted by her ? he was thinking .
had her face been thicker , and had her left eyes apple turned a little bit to the eye center we could have been sweethearts .
the audience dont see all these small details from far , so she is quite a likable singer .
her voice is fine , i like it .
i preferred tamy on her , maybe also because semadar has not been as intelligent as she .
id seen that immediately .
i was afraid we would not have many topics to talk about humik suddenly remembered how he was celebrating his last evening in manhatten .
he was running to central park , passing through streets along skyscrappers .
above him there were colored illuminating advertisements for movies , stage dramas restaurants and other entrtainment businesses .
numerous cars were moving .
he knew that such a busy and crowded city he wouldnt meet again a very long time .
he saw that some runners were doing like him , wishing to medidate while developing their feets strength , hearts pounding and lungs breathing .
they all were feeling the closure impact of the huge town , the isolation of the individual and the loneliness of the soul humik came to a lonely path among the sparsly planted trees .
he had raised his head , saw the cloudy sky and began to think like philosophically .
now ill tell about that kind of thoughts to semadar , he told himself , even only for breaking the silence .
otherwise she might think i am just indifferent or non friendly to her .
you remember the central park ?
he asked .
she nodded , while stretching her hand , and bringing a plate with with the fried potatoes to the small table .
humik indicated her to sit , and both were eating from the same plate with the forks she had brought .
he remembered tammy and him enjoying the park , and asked semadar if she had heard about the poor girl .
tamy became better , said semadar , she recovered and i heard she had returned to the states im so busy that i could not contact hernow , you continue with your tale about yourself in the central .
once i had been running there alone at sunset , he said , and i saw the sun getting down .
at the same time the pale moon was hanging in the middle of the sky .
i thought why wouldnt a huge wall be rising in between them ?
then some people in the middle will see one half of the sky in almost darkness , with a moon and at the same time they will discern the other half to be still in daylight and see the sun .
oh , i know that you love astronomy , she said , when you were enthusiastic about our singing in america , i remebber that you said to both tamy and myself for wonderful singers like you i should pick up some stars and put them on your cushions , instead of flowers that you get from a simple fan .
the sun , humik continued his previous loudly meditation , has a very different route than the moon .
so are their measures , as our eyes see them and in absolute terms.. .the sun is always burning , and you should look at it only through a coaled glass .
then youll see that its shape is always a circle , and its route always from east to west .
not so with the moon it has various routes , that i dont pretend to know about , and it has different shapes and sizes along a month and a year and a period .
but dyou know why have i mentiones all this ?
maybe , she said , a little bit embarrased , ah , because you like astronomy , ive already said that its also because i am the moon and you are the sun !
while he suddenly said that , he became serious , and his face was wearing a sad expression .
i mean i am not an artist .
i sometimes envy them , including you , of course .
you are the sun , semadar .
and i have not my own light she was smiling , but understood his modesty and sincerity .
you are talking like a philosopher or a poet , she told humik .
or are you dizzy now , somehow ?
maybe because youve fallen in love with me ?
sorry , i cant , he said , i wont be able to fall in love on the coming period .
i am still not a ripe fruit here .
i have to be with myself .
okey ?
and i dont want to bother you for long .
but tonight youll sleep here , she said .
ill sleep on a reserve mattresse that i have .
thank you , dear semadar .
tomorrow ill search to hire a room .
ill walk and see some in the old area of tel aviv .
i was told by mike that they are cheaper .
i want a quiet place .
till ill get to the army you know ?
i was not sure at all , that youll permit me to sleep here tonight .
thanks again .
if you have a show tonight ill join you .
okey , i invite you , she said , but i must remind you to phone to your mother , she is very anxious .
i havent wanted to urge you do that , before you eat something and rest a while .
please , said humik , you phone to her , when we go out .
i know you have a caf in the neighborhood , with a phone yes , ill get to ruth caf , and contact your mother .
itll be seven in the morning in la .
may i wake her so early ?
yes .
tell her that i am tired from the sailing , and the sea sickness had weakened me and i fell asleep after id arrived .
ill phone her tomorrow night .
i dont have to talk much with her i am really longing to talk with the danny , my little brother .
i love him .
ill pay you the cost call to los angeles .
he escorted semadar to the show , that took place in kibbuts givat haim .
humik enjoyed the beginning of the show , then was snoring a little .
but he woke close to the end , so semadar did not know he had fallen asleep .
after they had returned to her room at midnight , she let him have her bed , but he was adamant to sleep on her mattress on the floor .
before going to sleep , semadar went to ruth caf and phoned to ramona .
the small broker effy freulich would have won thousand dollars , for discovering where was humik .
now ramona has saved that amount , and she immediately informed her lawyer in jerusalem about that .
next morning semadar and humik were eating vegetables salad at 10 a.m. , during which humik was looking at the girlsingers songs list , that semadar had shown him .
he asked her to repeat singing the song , that had been mostly applauded last evening .
semadar was singing it , after telling that erga had invited for her an opera teacher , who would develop her voice .
some high soprano tones , said erga , seemed to be difficult to semadar , so she should try to elaborate them .
all that on erga lifshits account .
very nice .
its a good solution , said humik .
chapter 31 humik hired a room in nahalat benjamin street in tel aviv .
he remembered strolling in that street in his childhood with his mother .
it had been the textile marketing street in tel aviv since its establishment , and ramona bought there for nahumik a nice black beret , that from then on was recognized sign on his head , while studying in his rabbis class , and also in torah classs lessons in the elementary school , in which he was a pupil .
now he began living above a store of fabric rolls there , and was jealously looking at some carriers , bringing rolls to stores by tricycles or bicycles .
he decided that first of all he would visit his childhood town , and then search some work to do , maybe here nearby , in the textile street .
four days after having arrived in the country , humik took a bus to his hometown .
he walked to the brethern grave , in which elkano had been buried .
winter tall nettles were growing between the graves .
the graveyard has been much extended since his boyhood , and twenty or more graves rows had been added there .
on the new stones there were engraved names that he had known in his childhood .
a cursed scythe , called time had sowed their lively souls and hidden their physical bodies in the ground .
he felt subdued , his heart filled with heavy gloomy memories .
he quickly left the place and his eyes were looking around .
trunks of the avenues religious ficus trees have become thicker , and their heavy long branches were reaching inside coutyards of people who humik had once known by their names .
then he was surveying faces of passers by .
some he had remembered , but none of them identified him .
i know , he said to himself , that most of the people i see now came to the country after my family had left it .
they have settled inside the town or in the new suburbs .
in the first years they were living in temporary tents and tin huts .
afterward the state began to build terraced or semi detached long buildings for them .
everyone will have his own apartment there .
some would become rich and will move to the old center , which had already been partly destroyed , and re built .
the new blocks of flats will replace old one story houses , that heirers of the towns establishers would sell to constructors .
they will soon build almost sky scrappers here , without having a sentiment to the old little town , that i had memorized in my mind i see men walking , and i dont recognize them .
i know the faces of obscure figures , like emerging from an old drawing in black and white .
their steps are pounding on the sidewalk with such a strong assurance that everything is theirs .
what claim may i have here ?
they have captured the stage of life in this place .
they and not those far forgotten dead heros oh , veiled curtain of my precious childhood !
woe to its exposed and hidden secrets , the lighted and the dark at last humik came again to the main street near the synagogue square .
old major davidovitch was walking toward him there , on the paved square .
excuse me , said humik , do you you remember me ?
no , answered the man .
im nahumik , the son of widowed ramona , who had married the photographer kaplansky and we had left the place .
oh , you have grown up !
the man complimented humik .
he remembered the fact that humik had been rabbi arons pupil .
he has passed away , said davidovitch , blessed be his memory .
the annoucements about the funeral were hanging here recently , but now they have already been replaced by fresh ones .
if you can say fresh about death .
he smiled bitterly .
humik felt sorry he had not visited his rabbis grave .
there is no stone over it yet .
told him the army retired major .
humik knew , that most families set up a stone grave only eleven month after a funeral .
such is their tradition .
so , if ive thought still to visit my living rabbi he is no more available .
humik was sore .
a heavy screen suddenly covered his eyes and he was sitting on a new public bench and saying to himself that the past has passed , dead and buried .
nothing good would grow out of it .
he must return to tel aviv , and thats it .
everything has been detriorated here , so i feel .
maybe i have to thank my mom , who has decided to leave the past behind us .
if its so terrible for me to walk here even for an hour and feel so bad , then what would have happened with me if i had continued living here ?
but the memory of my homeland , that is full of passion to the hidden past can not be removed .
its a kind of pity , telling me that i should not forget the blood that had been shed .
i was witnessing this epos , and my soul is so built , that my demon wouldnt allow me to run away .
its better for me to live in this dry land , with a long summer that makes everything grey and beige , and in an automn like this you would hardly find changing faces of trees and bushes from green to pink to yellow to red to white .
its a black and white kind of film , this bloody country .
i want to cry and weep and love the avenues of these ficuses , that i dont remember thier fall of leaves .
if i dont remember that , maybe its not important .
to me ?
no , my memory of the green is worth more than reality why suddenly had i become joyful ?
let me think because of my original private name nahum .
my father chose that name it had been in those days when my both grandfathers were strill alive , and all my uncles from either side my moms or my pas were also alive .
so my father gave me that name of a prophet .
it means the condoled !
i will be condoled .
despite the hollocaust , that had killed all our family , except me and my mom .
whos that man walking ahead of me ?
the municipality architect .
hoffman is older than he had been , of course , but he seems still healthy .
he was constantly betraying his wife .
i had learned it once from my moms conversation with her friend hemda , who said hoffman and his wife shifra believe in stalin and she believes her husband like she believes in the dictator .
can you imagine ?
now stalin is dead , and his believers believe in his heirs in russia .
they preach for eternal peace and arms control , and on the other hand theyd made a contract with egypt for a huge arms supply .
and ill have to face these weapons .
but ive read that israel now has also good weaponry .
now is not the war of independence period .
elkano hardly had a rifle , and now we have many kinds of arms , airplanes and tanks and artilery .
hopefully we wont use them humik returned to tel aviv .
in the afternoon he began to search for a job .
he looked around and saw a young chap , riding a bicycle with a roll of fabric for women dresses on his shoulder .
excuse me , said humik , maybe you need an additional carrier there , in your store ?
follow me to number thirty four , said the chap , named simon hilely .
his boss liked humik , and gave him a chance .
sometime he should carry at once two fabric rolls , so he told the guy .
but most of these are made of french silk , which isnt heavy .
humik felt quite well in that job , and decided to stay there .
his earning was less than in the ny cellar or with mike , but it was sufficient for him .
also his mother would not neglect him , he knew .
ramona would get used to idea , that her son is in israel .
chapter 32 about seven weeks after his arrival to israel , nahumik registered his address in the ministry of interior .
some days later he received a typed note command for reporting to the military authorities , and passing fitness and capability exams in the mobilization office .
he saw such a styling , with many details also on the announcements pillars in the streets .
it had mainly required , that every youth approaching the age of eighteen should come there and stand up to be mobilized .
humik was happy that it was like a seasonal phenomenon , and he would be welcomed there with many others .
in a nice but cold automn morning , he arrived in the mobilization office .
immediately he was met by two doctors , who told him to undress his upper wearing .
they checked his tongue , chest , belly , and even were taking a look at his testicles .
then they told him to jump twenty times on his standing place , and measured his hearts pounding and blood pressure .
they soon asked him to breath very deeply , then stop , and repeat it thrice .
it seemd like they have finished his check up , as they had left him in the room and went outside for their tea break .
humik dressed himself and was waiting , but had not noticed some young medic , or an additional doc who was still sitting in the corner .
suddenly somebody activated an instrument behind humiks back , and he felt he had been in hell a loud sirene noise crushed his ears and nerves , and he wanted to fall down and catch some shelter , as he had done in his childhood , while his neighborhood had been shelled by twenty pounds artilery .
and that last noise was much more terrible .
excuse me , he heard a voice , that came from behind his back .
only then he saw the young medic , and understood he had been there before .
the noise came out from this panic checking ruler , the guy explained , pointing on a metal straight ruler , that had fallen on the floor , i am sorry for disturbing you .
it was by mistake .
this wonder ruler is used by me in my second job , in an airforce camp .
it has remained in my bag since yesterday .
as i wanted to pull out a sandwich with a hard egg from my bag , i have just pulled out this ruller , too .
it unfortunately struck the floor , there .
the result was a terrible yelling sirene , or something more terrifying .
is this aimed for measuring something ?
asked smart humik .
of course .
but first let me ask you have you submitted a request for volunteering to the air force ?
no , sir .
ill volunteer to some different armed force .
humik was cautious not to tell him to what he was really aspiring .
he was afraid that the army has its own kind of tests , to check if the volunteers are too chatty or not cautious .
so talking too much might hurt his prospects for becoming a parachutist .
okey , said the man , who was young , about twenty five or eight , you can not be a pilot , for sure !
had the metal ruler discovered that from my nervous reaction ?
the medic nodded , then approached the docs desk and looked into a file , headed nahum kaplansky .
i remember you as a good boy , said the medic , you had been a pupil in my brothers class .
his name is dovik .
do you remember him ?
i havent seen you several years .
have you moved to another town ?
i was abroad , said humik , in america .
for more than six years .
had not your brother told you ?
maybe i dont remember , said the medic , but now i can tell you , that you can serve in any fighting unit , he said and closed the file in a hurry , the truth is , that im not said to tell you anything .
i understand , said humik , and the medic retreated .
it was at the same moment that the two docs returned , after having finished drinking their tea and eating their cakes .
why are you here ?
asked one of them , turning to humik .
you havent told me what to do next he said .
go home , the doc said .
no , wait for me in the corridor .
said doviks brother , the medic , i would like to tell you something about dovik .
humik approached fellows who were seated on a long bench and just chatting .
he understood they had met here by chance , but they wanted to argue or tell their problems to each other .
so they would be strengthened in their wish to be mobilized or on the cotrary , get a dismissal .
you have to understand , said one of them , wishing to appear as know all , with his health clause he can serve as a squad store keeper and the like .
yes , even in a fighting unit .
but to be a real fighter , fight face to face with the enemy you have to be with a powerful physical capability .
a stong heart , best lungs and so on .
you know how many kilometers a fighter must run per day ?
twenty and additional twenty he would walk , day and night .
he must know how to fire a mortar bomb , how to move a tank , how to carry a machine gun , not a light uzi sub macine gun that is a laughter .
you have no way of retreat , thats what they are telling you , our back is turned to the sea .
yes , our border is twelve kilometers from the mediteranean , would you believe that ?
you are right , said humik , i know that we have only the front , no back to withdraw or maneuvre .
why are you talking about retreat or maneuvre ?
asked a thin chap , are you longing to a war ?
i am from a kibbuts , and i am like my leaders for a just peace with the arabs .
we have to listen to what soviet russia says about this subject .
war is more likely than peace , said another one , i cant disregard the journalists writing about that .
the situation here is serious the one who wont understand that is deluding himself .
like you he pointed on the guy , who had talked before , you are from hashomer hatsair kibbuts , arent you ?
you think youll bring the peace piegon by smearing salt on its wings .
i see you are a great strategist .
humik told him .
dont think i always agree with what our government and army commanders are doing .
sometimes i see , that things are done wrongly , improperly .
for example closing whole arab locations .
every time the arabs want to travel in a bus from nazareth to haifa , for example they have to register , and beg a special license from a military ruler , so they call it .
generally you seem to be a patriot , said humik .
its not a wonder , he said , i have twenty friends in the army , in various units .
we have been raised from childhood in a kibbuts .
when my friends come to vacatrion they explain me exactly what happens around us .
they know it from a first source .
due to them im madly in love with this small country .
i have the same solidarity problem .
said another .
i dont believe in that , told them humik , i think its all a matter of your personal character , or born with case .
for example i have a friend , who was raised like me , same street same town .
his mother was in the holocaust .
he had come a few months ago to america and would refuse to return to israel , to be mobilized .
its true , that i have in my mind more letters and books and abstract ideas than him .
but has that to do with loving your native land ?
a sentiment is a complicated matter , i say .
so , you have really come from america to join the army ?
humik nodded and twelve eyes there were fourteen around were gazing at him in wonder , and even in worship .
maybe one day youll regret it .
or you wont have that chance .
oh , god will save us all , said a guy wearing a cap , who was sitting at the edge of the bench , with gods help , nothing bad will happen .
i am sure , that from now on i am chained to this ground , said humik , if you ask me why , ill explain it as a psychological sickness , not yet defind so by psychiatrists .
i am a coward hero .
having an aspiration to be like my father , whod got killed as a soldier in the second world war .
the listeners were silent for some seconds .
yes , its natural that your heart is repeatedly pounding like a drum , said another guy , and you that want to continue listening to its monotonous tempo .
my brother was killed in an operation a year ago , and the army refuses to mobilize me , for the time being .
my parents told me do what you want .
so , ill join the infantry , i hope so .
you tell yourself a sentence , like an indian mantra never desert a land , that your loved ones had been killed for it .
its not so reasonable to say that , said the antagonistic kibbuts guy , because the jews did not have , also in the far past fixed and recognized border lines in this historical country .
i have passed first year of history studies in the university , and i know .
but the army has not allowed me to continue studying .
they need me in a rotten office .
my health clause is problematic .
humik discerned that the medic with the panic checking ruler was approaching him .
i have an idea , he said to humik , i will tell my brother dovik , that you , nahumik would like to join the parachuters .
he will be soon mobilized to the coming nahal hebrew word for fighters pioneers youths units .
they are a group of fifteen friends or so , who will pass together the parachuting course .
it will be after theyll be a year in a seed settlemnet near the border .
are there other ex pupils from our old school ?
asked humik .
of course , most of them .
and youll recognize them .
it will be very interesting for me .
said humik , ill happily listen to what they would tell , and maybe join them .
i have no society here yet .
i know here only one girl , who had been in new york .
she is not my personal girl friend .
okey , said the ruler owner , how could dovik contact you ?
here is my address in tel aviv .
he can write to me .
and here i write a phone number of a caf .
its owner would tell me .
humik wrote a note with his details , and departed from his friends brother .
two weeks afterward humik found himself among the ex pupils of his class from elementary school .
with them there were other guys and teenager girls that he had known from other schools , or had not known in the past at all .
they were meeting in doviks parents house , and the small living room was narrow to contain them .
so , a few were seated in the corridor and listening to a speech of the scouts movements district leader .
he was wearing a blue shirt with a green broad narrow kerchief arounf his neck .
his eliptic narrow glasses were flashing every time he was changing his gaze to another sub group seated before him .
he was holding his speech while standing so , you will be a group tightly connected with our movement , to settle in a deserted place , called nehusha .
i still cant give you many details about it , but its in the south of jerusalem .
you will strengthen the areas near a place called beit guvrin , arab ex territory named bet jubrin .
you will be creating there what we call a seed .
it is a new place of young people devoted to each other .
like a seed of wheat it will insert roots into the ground , send green leaves to the air around okey ?
we together with the army , want to establish this village as a semi military position it will take control of the area between lakhish district and jerusalem .
today the border there is breached every night infiltraitors come in , jordaian arabs or palestinians .
for how long will be our service there ?
asked dovik .
first youll pass a regular recruiting period in the army , of four months then youll climb these hills of nehusha , and stay there for a year or more .
you may be called for a second service period after that .
but whoever will decide , and i hope that all of you will continue building this kibbuts and be its settlers for many years to come , after their army service .
nahumik so was his name known to most of his friends there , was happy to hear all these details .
they would meet his expectation , as after one year of settlemnet most of the guys will volunteer to get into a parachutists special group .
it will be comprised by the seeds members , so he had been told .
yes , there is a difference between him and most of the other guys he knows for sure , that he wouldnt stay with them after his army service .
he wont become a farmer like his father had been .
he is ready to work there for a year , but not more .
however , humik began to like his new friends .
they are together a nice group that will establish a small community seed .
the question is what will happen from now on ?
said humik to himself , maybe i myself will change my mind , after observing that the place would become a real paradise so , i will stay there for long i have yet to pass a restless journey till i arrive to that bridge of ending my army service .
it will last together with the seeds service two and half years .
my parents , he told himself on his way back to his room , would be frightened to hear what i have decided become a parachutist , and almost at the same time go back to live as a farmer .
they had left everything behind , and here i am consciously and voluntarily throwing myself back to an ancient , primitive way of life .
have you ever seen such a silly stupid young man ?
would my mom ask her husband , irritatingly it is a gentle aim for ones life to settle on a deserted land , like nature had created it that means to change the landscape , or the shape of the deserted for thousands of years land , by sowing some vegetables and planting olive or fig trees over there .
is it idealistic or crazy or both ?
no , humik suddenly said to himself , and reshuffled his thoughts .
i know for sure i wont be living with this group after my army service .
and many of them wont be attached forever to that place nehusha , too .
its a tough effort , and the guys have parents and brothers and other friends , that would entreat them not to remain , but come back home or learn something in university .
in fact , their situation would be like mine .
thats a way in which human beings are wandering a student of what profession i would like to be ?
in america i thought about management and promotion of actors and arts in general .
i can not now tell now exactly i expect from myself to study further .
maybe ill take modern literature and journalism , or social work , if they have it here , in jerusalem university .
i am thinking too much forward a day after that , humik received a letter from his parents .
they had just wanted , he told himself while reading it , to purify their conscience .
to think that they had fulfilled their parental duty , and told me to do this or that .
if i wont do what they ask they wont be responsible about the results .
well , i agree that only i myself am responsible for my success and failure .
you will find out in the future , wrote solomon , humik dear , that its very recommended to live without being brave .
had my son elkano understood it he would not have been in the grave , with his best comrades the most important thing in life is realizing your selfish wish to survive .
but dont declare it in public .
teachers , educators , commanders , politicians , rabbis , and all others denying the human truth , just would dislike to hear that , though to their family members they would sometime advice to restrain , not rush out to be in the first line of fighters .
that egotisic truth does not meet their hypocrite sayings and their self egotism , that they have developed during the years .
and by whose help ? by cursed patriotism , which the army is its best realiser , if i may call it so.. .you certainly know that the army is a cunning type of creature , a sonofabitch that is being permanently created by the kinds of personalities that ive mentioned .
they are all trying to develop and enrich the ground of eighteen years old youths , who are called to serve them by a cruel , barbaric law .
in these guys the hormonal activity , their heart and mind and testicle activity , called emotion is in its climax .
therefore they have an unending energy mixed with with an enormous feeling of love to everything except their parents , maybe .
every minute they aspire and desire to unite with girls , friends , commanders , nativeland , nation , god .
they reach a crazy propensity and preparedness to sacrifice themselves for all the mentioned words , which they consider as values .
had i believed in god , i would have begged him as a first step to repair your bloody world , please please stop this horrible phenomemon .
have you understood what i mean , humik ?
then humik meditated about the terrible situation , in which he is chained to a belief about the vital necessity of his homeland to his soul .
it had grown in him since being raised in a small town it had developed in the first ten years of his wandering life .
yes , sometimes he thinks about himself as still a boy , innocently trying to idealize the simple concept of goodness .
of course i know that most of it is impossible to be realized .
he says to himself , but if so am i ready to be caught by moments , in which i can run out from that like i have done by the refreshing adventure with raphaella ?
now it seems to me like i had intentionally escaped from my innocence , and closed myself in a bubble .
my alter ego told me that death is waiting me soon , while i had known i should go forth to israel .
chapter 33 at that time naitty freulich led his business in a seemingly well paved passagel .
raphaella would arrive to the grocery store four days a week .
in the evenings , the couple would climb to the gallery on the second floor and lie on the mattresse and make love .
at their sides there were spices envelopes and juices bottles and dried beans packages .
not far from these were also juta sacks of flours and paper packets of milk powder .
naity would smile to himself , saying there is jewish prayer listen oisrael on the bed .
im doing that very well recently .
blessed be raphaella .
she is quite considerate , and does not complain about the peculiar circumstances and surounding that make our burning love become possible .
i am saving a lot of rent payment by not hiring a room .
with the old freulichs and effy i could not have lived , as the place there is very narrow .
in the first month after my demobilization , i was sleeping there in the bathroom .
thank god , now im on the right path , dwelling here .
sometimes there would come a mouse to my mattresse , but ive bought some cage trap , that i put a piece of sausage in it and here we capture it then drawning the living animal in a bucket filled with dirty water .
tomorrow night well go out , and see a new musical on the broadway , o.k . ?
he asked raphaella , who was very glad .
so , as half of their nights they had been together , at least one of these was devoted to a broad range of culture and entertainment , as she was calling it go out to a theatre or in a movie or attend musical event somewhere .
though naitty hadnt been fond of jaz nor of classic music , he was generous to share enjoying that with raphaella , who was having patience enough to listen one day , so she was hoping to the wedding march .
however , after two and half months of renewed hot relationship , naitty became aware that he had been again buried in the ground .
a small supplier , who had sold him the main products for his business , would agree to continue only if nathan pays cash for fifty percent of each order .
also the bank , who had provided him loans in a high percent of interest , began to send warning letters .
then the citizens bank of bronx broke nathans neck , by sending gangsters to threaten him .
they demanded him to pay not only his recent debts , but also old debts of his old uncle freulich , effys father that he could not pay off .
effy himself had become to know about his cousines renewed trouble .
he talked again with naitty about leaving the u.s. and emigrating to israel .
you should have a strange impulse to leave behind your dream about u.s. of america , said effy .
i wonder , effy , answered naitty , you are not such a fanatical religious jew .
youre non religious at all .
so , why rush there ?
ill use that alternative only as a last resource today israel is like a cowboys land , answered effy .
its a place that a gold cover is wrapping a patriotic nationalistic package .
the one who is ready to go to the south of the country , negev , can double his investment within a year , so i was told .
no , dear cousine .
s h e does not agree to move .
ive already spoken to her .
and without her my life is damned and doomed .
i always remember that she is a delegate of hashem hebrew word for god .
as had been written in kabala book of the ari raphaella would be lilith but the good one , not the negative .
one day effy decided to meet raphaella .
by naittys approval , of course .
naitty was almost desparated .
he thought , that a dialogue of raphaella with his cousine might be a last chance to win her on his side , and so he would let him try .
effy would explain her the situation of naitty , tell her the prossibilities open to them in israel .
he would try to convince her as an objective observer , so told him his cousine to tell her .
you have to understand , effy told raphaella , while he met her in a caf , that israel today is a very normal and secure country , having a potential of long run huge prosperity .
its not at all the terrible country which you would read about in the papers .
i dont believe you , she said , and regretted that she had come to meet this primitive guy , a guard and guide in a brothel .
last week i have met a smart israeli , he said , it was in an office of the israeli embssy here .
his name was raanan weitz .
he told us , a group of interested guys , about a project he was leading to establish a cowboys like farm .
it will be with horses , cows and sheep and goats in the negev .
the jewish agency would finance the settlers .
i want to join that group .
you and naitty can take another project , there are plenty .
i dont envision myself living in an uncivilized desert , okey ?
raphaella opposed him .
look , said effy , you dont imagine what a magnificient climate is there .
dyou know , that the weather is almost stable all the year ?
in winter you hardly ever have to wear a coat or a pair of boots .
another issue that i want to remind you , is that naitty is an expert in marketing business .
they dont have there enough products yet , lacking foreign exchange .
but now the economic situation has changed , as the government and also private smart people get compensation monies from germany .
this will repent the nazi killings or at least their cruel robbery in the hollocaust .
effy , enough , i am tired of talking about that emigration .
i have discussed everything with naitty .
thank you for meeting me .
she rose nervously from her seat , and wanted to go away .
effy grabbed her by her arm and forced her to stay .
sit down !
his voice was threatening , you know i know many things about you , that nobody knows even not naitty .
now , you should understand , that a return to your old profession , be a whore again is worse than emigration to israel !
dont you see that ?
i speak for your well being .
we are both jews , raphaella .
let me go , she rose again from her chair , her face tortured ill tell naitty what dirty words you had used , to insult me !
i would die but wouldnt go there .
im an atheistic jewess , and i am not a zionist either .
i cant agree that a jewish woman like me should go elsewhere to suffer !
why has naithan sent you ?
effy tried again to hold her she slapped his cheek and ran away .
raphaellas answer was extremely negative , effy told naitty .
in the next day raphaella met her lover .
naitty told her that he had been trying to take out goods from the store , as much as possible .
he put the boxes under a shed in freulich courtyard .
i must lock this store , he said , and my uncle has to sell the fixed property and remainder of goods to the one who will offer the best price .
its under control of the court .
but dont think i have nothing now .
ive saved ten thousands dollars in cash , and ill sell the hidden stock and get more .
effy was just happy about his cousines re entanglement .
now his dream to come with naitty to israel will be realized .
raphaella is a big problem .
he is crazyy about her .
its not a simple situation .
today , he says , he visited the young lubabitzer rabbi in his synagogue .
even though naitty does not appreciate him as a great man , but as an excellant ads expert the shrewd rabbi simply copies from the explanations of rashi , the greatest middle ages explanator of the jewish bible and talmud .
lubabitzer is a repetitor , and nothing else , naitty was saying he went to listen to his advice what to do .
the rabbi told naitty that he should not force his future wife , raphaella to emigrate with him instead he should get into a yeshiva talmud school in cincinati or somewhere else , for the time being .
raphaella should bear a baby there , after having married .
itll all be on the rabbis account in this way , said effy , i myself will be in a deeper pit .
may god or the devil put a new refusal idea in raphaellas mind .
she should contradict that alternative too .
and naitty would soon find out , how stupid was the idea to get into learning with a group in yeshiva he is such a brilliant businessman , who cant live a week without planning some smart and complicated transaction .
no , it wouldnt become to be a reality , the rabbis proposal i have had reasonable hopes regarding naitty .
he could initiate marvellous financial transactions , almost miracles .
im his fan chapter 34 dear nathan , let me think .
said raphaella to her sweetheart , after he had revealed to her his bloodshedding heart , his difficult economic situation , the almost dead end of his efforts .
i must relax a little .
raphaellas voice was weak , let me have a week rest , in order to recover from this hit or shit , and think about a solution .
i must have rest .
the doc has givrn me some drops of valerian drug , against my irregular heart beats.. ill let you know my answer to your proposal , regarding the rabbis yeshiva .
im sure well get together i am really sick .
no !
shouted naitty , i need an answer now , regarding israel !
he was grabbing her right hands fingers , and then smoothed his touch , even like caressing then he pressured her tightly again .
even if you announce that your nerves net is torn , and that your physical strength and psychological power are lost shouted naitty , and your orgastic pleasure becomes zero i mean , for joining me even to paradise .
i am not ready to get any argument against my proposal regarding israel .
not the yeshiva .
she was weeping i know that you hope to trick something in order to get back here .
to civilized america , to the heart and mind of culture .
but i have suffered enough in my life .
you know that , nathan .
im adamant , that you will be coming with me to the holy land , raphaella .
i know your fears but theyll vanish .
you will be wearing there the ormanented kerchief .
i dont ask you an immediate shave of your hairs .
you will lit sabbath candles , not like here , that youve done it for me , as you said you know how a yiddish maidl maiden should behave .
with gods help all that will change our fate .
the greatness of gods belief had been engraved deeply in my mind , and now even more not in vain the jews have survived alive as individuals and as a nation , for three thousand years .
dyou imagine ?
its impossible that our fathers and forefathers and their forefathers had been mistaken thousands of years , and were praying for naught , to empty skies ! ?
without anything inside it ! ?
they were not stupid , all those jews .
even though i agree , that some were and are nowaday .
but its a personal luck , that god has created us in this manner .
and that personal luck can luckily be changed , all at once .
have you understood the deep thoughts , that i have just expressed ?
she rolled her eyes , for fear and amazement .
let me go home , naitty , she mumbled , i cant think now in sanity ... regarding our new situation .
he held her right hand very tightly , and his strong fingers were like a metal plyer pressuring and biting her flesh .
then he pulled her to his chest and turned her body and hand around , with her buttocks toward him , aching her by the curvy pull .
she cried and screamed .
i must leave america immediately , and youll come with me .
naitty shouted .
his voice was threatening , and his eyes were suddenly searching around .
she didnt guess what .
i am not ready , she spoke harshly , because of pain , to hear you talk like that , nathan !
you have suddenly changed the tone of talking to me .
you have been till now so considerate , quite gentle so good talking , so humane .
i had been your angel , so youre telling me .
whats happened to you ?
i , who had been hurt so much by men , who used my good heart and my sense of giving and assisting and all the plenty of goodness and pretiness and pitiness that god had planted in me but i believe in a universal god , not in the narrow minded jewish one .
you offend god , saying that !
naitty roared .
ive told that also to effy .
am i not allowed to have my own belief ?
i dont need a holy land for god , and especially not israel , that is so far , and full of misery and problems .
i read the newspapers .
you and your effy.. .ayyyyyuyey !
you believe to your half mongoloid half outist cousin ?
youll come with me to that land , where gods spirit is really felt .
there is the best place for worshipping him !
well see that , she said , and yelled again from pain , as naitty has turned her again , now was re facing her .
he put his leg in between her legs , and by a short push caused her to fall on the rough wooden floor of the gallery .
nathan , i know you need money .
she mumbled while he kneeled beside her .
let me take a taxi and bring you two thousand bucks or more .
itll help you , im sure .
no !
you dont take any step without me , from now on .
he said very vehemently , and his leg on her was aching , as adding force to his oral order .
ill buy today two sailing tickets to israel .
youll wait me here , in closed door .
then well go together to your room , youll take the money there and well stay here again , till the sail .
naitty , i suddenly dont recognize you .
what happened to you ?
how arent you ashamed of yourself ?
i was your sex slave for at least seven or eight months .
what has gone wrong in your head ?
a financial situation can improve , and youre full of capability in that .
please hear me , nathan !
are you on hard drugs ?
she was looking straight into his eyes , and saw some mad bad omen there but she was still hoping to make him sane again .
he was now kneeling beside her .
in his palm was a rafia wire , that he had found near some of his sacks around .
he was encircling that wire around her legs , and she was dumb , being shocked .
then he rounded her ankles by another wire .
raphaella did not move .
her heart was melting from fear and her mind was obscure .
naitty had taken two additional wires , and by them he tied her two hands , close to her palms .
that hurt her and caused pains again .
she had tried to rise up , but he pushe her back , his lips filled with foam , and his fingers trembling but forceful .
raphaella spat him twice by his face .
while he was still kneeling , he slapped her cheeks four times and then grabbed her hips .
he was rising with her , while his strong hands tightened her body to his belly and chest and strong feet .
raphaella was feeling that he was going to do something hed regret about and she was regretting , she had not thought about that beforehand .
she tried to mumble well well , ill do every thing but his red eyes , burning with a dark hatred and asking revenge , had a message that this time he wont listen any more .
he moved her on the air to right and left , in parallel to the floor , as hesitating what to do .
then he advanced her head to his , to look at her face and terrified beautiful eyes .
he was still embracing her body and was folding her by his strong arms , tightly around his hips .
he raised her again , and was carrying his trembling swooning sweetheart toward the narrow steps , leading from the gallery to the stores first floor .
he suddenly threw his sweetheart from the gallery down , without a second thought .
there were twelve stairs under him , covered with a red carpet .
a roar of her skull crush was heard as a thunder .
naitty was looking down and shouting in english toward the far body you bitch , you deserve it !
you , devils dicsciple !
then he said in hebrew , with his american accent hashem god has done that to you .
and hes done that to me .
too !
i am to nowhere .
no ill not jump .
i am a delegate , im a messenger !
a voice is coming with a message from heaven and a redeemer will come to zion , to the repentents of jacobs people .
you , woman , had refused to repent , and end your sins .
revenge !
god is revenging his enemies !
revenge !
naittys felt jolted .
he had already bolted down the steps , continuing to mumble his previous calls , that he had been learning in heider religious classroom years ago , in a jewish ashkenzi accent .
firstly , he put raphaellas legs into two empty sacks of wheet flour .
for a second he discerned her bleeding head , that had been put aside stranegly , and he avoided looking at it any more .
her blood was filling around a small pool of the red liquid , and naitty tried to wrap the whole head with a small empty white sack of matzeh flour .
it had soon become red , and he moved the corpse a little and was putting the whole head into another sack .
then he rushed back to a corner , and brought two bigger empty sacks and strong ropes .
he pushed her feet into one of them , and to another one he pushed raphaellas whole upper body , including her wrapped head by the smaller sacks .
he noticed that her belly and hips had not been hidden well her thick leather belt , ornamented with small golden starlets and anchors , was seen in the middle .
oh , thats not important , he mumbled .
he was feeling the icy sweat stinging his back and chest and legs , and the swift pounding blood pressure in his temples .
he tightened the sacks to the corpse by circling ropes around and connecting them .
then he opened the stores entry door , and peeped out .
he saw the yellow light of the streets electric lamps , and some green light coming from an illuminated electric ad of a pharmacy .
all the buildings around , blocks and offices and stores , were silent , as dumb and deaf .
the time was ten p.m. and he decided he shouldnt wait .
he knew that there had been a swimming pool in the neighborhood .
it would be closed by juta cloths , he said to himself .
they avoid waving winds to come in .
naitty decided to walk towards that place .
if i succeed to drag raphaella , be her memory blessed , he just thought , to that place , ill be safe .
i can throw her to the water .
hopefully th pool is still filled with water .
ive never enterd it , now i must i should not call a taxi for that .
any stupid driver would know what is such a load .
okey , i must fix some long planks along the corpse , and drag it myself to the pool .
so , go forward !
if somebody discerns me , hell think im a poor construction worker , forced by his employer to work late well , my brain is still promptly active , by gods command .
for better or for worse .
he went outside , locked the store and was stepping forward , trying not to be heard .
forty or fifty steps from the store , there was a bulldozer parking in an almost empty square .
around it were scattered sacks of cement and some brown bricks .
then he saw a pile of planks , each one as long as a mans height , at least .
naitty was smiling to himself , taking under each of his two elbows three or four planks .
he started to walk with them , and was feeling an enormous force driving him back to the store .
he thought that he could insert them into the ropes fastened around the sacks , and in that way the corpse would be well hidden .
when he got back into the store , he lit the electric light again , and looked over the sacks on the floor .
he kneeled toward the corpse and listened if he could hear something coming out of its chest .
the soft touch of his beloved ones breast , made him mad .
he began to shout oy vey , and rose up .
but soon he was patiently tying the planks to the corpse , one by one .
thank god he mumbled , that she had kept a thin , sexy figure .
very well .
it wont be a heavy load .
godll help .
ill just begin dragging .
he opened the door again and looked outside .
nobody was there , as before , and he was taking out all his load to the curvy sidewalk near the store .
he recalled that he had not locked the door .
he put the load down and rushed to the store and locked it .
enough he said to himself , i wont stop dragging until i arrive to the pool and finalize my task .
salty foam was filling naittys mouth , while he was walking on his way , with the planks hiding the load underneath .
his breath had become heavier from the carrying effort , and from the fear of being discovered .
god , help me to pass this path safely , as you had helped jacob to pass yabok passage , and afterward he fought against a bad man and succeeded .
he slowed down , to search for a plain straight path , that the dragging noise wont be heard .
he was feeling again the dirty sweat creeping on his skin , mixed with some lime dust or cement powder bubling on the air .
he calmed himself only more two hundred meters still i hope the place would be open , or ill find some breach .
for me its nothing .
in korea ive found a sack of rice in a locked courtyard .
i had the pliers then , and soon succeeded to have an easy cut of the fences iron net .
oh , what an idiot am i ?
i havent taken the pliers with me , though i had known i should need it .
i see a small shed there .
ill store the corpse under it .
he rushed back with a pounding heart .
after having found what he had wanted , he came back breathing heavily .
he was afraid that somebody would find the corpse , but it was lying there in the same manner that he had left it .
he touched again raphaellas belt , which was a siezing point for carrying her , pressed by the planks along the way toward the swimming pool .
he moand , and could not avoid a short weep , then strengthened himself .
he found himself with his load beside the fence .
he cut it from top to bottom , and was staring already at the pool .
dark water had been filling only half of its height .
as naitty saw that , he said well , and dragged his victim to hide behind a huge cactus planted nearby .
after disconnecting the planks from the ropes , he threw the wrapping sacks as far as he could .
then he was undressing his sweetherts body , soon embracing and kissing raphaellas breast , but not looking at the horrible sight of her head and skull that were still wrapped .
he dragged the naked corpse twenty steps , looking into the darkness around him , till he arrived to the water .
blood is not bleeding from the corpse any more , well .
so he told himself , with a thought that the devil had caused him this queer dance with the bare corpse naithan took out the sacks from the corpse head , and threw the young woman bare body to the water .
she had long sateen hair , her skull was blown up , her perfumes were still smelling from her dead body .
he had a strange feeling that the prettiest of all girls that he had seen in his life , is again asking him , her sweetheart , to penetrate to her caves and conquer her holes a flopflopflok noise was heard from the water .
the man naitty looked around in great fear .
there had been no one around , and he walked back through the breach he had created just a fw minutes before .
ill tell effy , he said to himself , that we will take a flight .
hell cancel the sail , if he had ordered a ship for us .
el al is a good flying company .
its ticket much more expensive than a ships , but i must hurry to the saviors land.. no , that is a christian idiom .
the saving country , that will rescue me from the troubles my name is nathan , which in hebrew means has given , god has given me the rescue .
and freulich in yiddish is joy a joy of gods believers .
symbolic names .
chapter 35 the recruit naum kaplansky arrrived in the recruits reception and mobilization camp , received a personal military number , a kitbag , one pair of complete shoes , khaki uniform , a khaki beret , and some othert personal belongings like underwears and mess tins urensils .
he was soldiered to one of the most poor armies in the world , using old rifles from ww2 , three types of worst tanks , five types of old artillery canons .
but it had relatively new french airfighters , that were the best and most efficient of all the said weapons and humik had known that he wouldnt have anything with them .
three days was humik in that camp , which was full of young civilians and soldiers walking there together , and searching for the best army dresses that would fit their own height and or width , but of course in vain .
in the fourth day there came a military truck , that took thirty fresh flesh for the killing machine to the camp of beit daras in the south of the country , about an hour drive from the countrys center .
they came to the recruits training camp , which was said to strengthen their muscles and fill air in their lungs and make their heart a strong pounding machine , and cause their feet to run as fast as a horses ones , and very important cause them feel that everybody must concentrate on his only target , and to forget the imaginative world in which he had lived before .
you will pass here a few very intensive grey months but in the future you will be longing for them , because youd know that you had given here your utmost , your juice , your sweat .
hopefully not your flesh and blood well said .
but you are a recruit , a pissed off liquid , a tired animal , expected at any moment to fall to the ground .
youll always be active , operative , quick moving .
youll be climbing passing running limping penetratingbursting foldingkneeling bending creeping etc .
a full list of all of the private soldiers detailed tasks and activities can be found in training book number wx125 in the military officers library , if you madly want to have a look but what you want and need most of all humik thought that they will let you lie down and get rest , like in the ny cellar , beside dear raphaella , the damned looking girl .
she had accomplished the promotion course already .
i hope nathan has permitted her to do that .
she had still time left to marry him .
but whats burning for such a couple to marry ?
i heard that among our comrades here , no recruit has been married .
they say , that our young officer , lieutenant amikam , is already married , but his wife is not allowed to visit him here his superior commander prohibits anyone of his stuff to meet anybody from outside , even on saturdays .
hs like an acrobat , amikam .
he demanded from us to perform only what he himself could demontrate to us a fast climbing on ropes hanging on and between timber pillars , slipping on the omega stretched ropes for one hundred meters running into a pit and jolting to get out and getting into mud and before all that smear your face and hands with coaled powder .
you should cheer up , dont be sore , so said tall israel moshavnik to tired humik .
moshavniks father wasnt a simple person , so were telling all the group members to each other .
he is a friend of the special units commander , arik .
humiks recruits small unit ten men direct commander was sargeant david nizmy , born in tunis .
but after a while there suddenly came an order from the high command , that he should be replaced .
why ?
lieutenant amikam , who was sitting on one of the mess tables , his long ornamented stick in hand , explained that very simply to the tired recruits they need him somewhere else .
i know he was excellent and you loved his singing while marching at night .
he taught me also the poem and song at that night , without light , how nice were your pigeon eyes , and so on .
villensky and zeira had written it .
now youll sing it by yourselves .
but what amikam had not known was , that nizmy told his recruits that they could hand a written protest to the high command , if they were feeling that something very very bad had happened to one of them , that their commander was a real sadist or that some commander had given them an unlawful order , something scandalous .
for example killing innocent citizens , or even cattle or hens that belong to the enemy humiks training team got second ensign salom levy instead of nizmy .
some of the recruits had known the guy from haifa .
before being mobilized , he was selling fallafel food on carmel mount , near theater cinema hadar .
how had the army changed such a simple guy and made him a commander of recruits , that still can not differentiate between left and right ?
really , humik had not been hurt while levy was training with them a bursting attack over a high sandy hill .
but recruit eli tabakh shouted to his comrades , that his commander had almost shot his leg .
ill submit an official complaint about him , he shouted , and the second ensign had heard , i still feel the buzz of the shooting bullet under my shoe sole .
then came a sudden stormy raining day , and the recruits were deeply plunged into mud .
when returning to their tents , they thought thay would sleep calmly , just listening under two blankets to the nice rainfall .
but all of a sudden they were feeling they were floating on a pool , and everything had become wet .
so they squeezed the water out of the blankets and went to some deserted place , a small arab ex village nearby , whose houses walls were having holes caused by training artillery forces .
in the rest of that night they were sleeping there very densed , touching each other , while seated on the hollowed cement floor .
there was not enough place to lie in that stormy rainy night in such a forgotted corner of the universe .
the coming weeks were better .
winter had almost become to an end , and the recruits were attacking many ground targets in screams , shooting bullets and throwing handgrenades .
one soldier was also bombing the unseen enemy from a two inches mortar shell , to make it look and heard like a real battle .
but then had ended the chapter of fighting like in the films , and began the sand eating chapter , while navigating in singles or in couples at night , and so on .
at that time leutenant amikam came to a visit , and the recruits demanded him to replace the fallafel ex seller , who became sick due to the bad weather .
there was a tumult , and officer amikam told them to be quiet .
enough , kids .
he said , this time his stick had changed to a whip , which he waved in the air , let the kinderkeeper speak youll move from here to the seeds within a month .
have patience to the end of your period .
part 4 chapter 36 in the week that humik started his training in the negev on the dunes and along wadis , nathan freulich began building his new business in israel .
he was assisted by his cousine effy , and first they invested some amount of money in hiring a store in southern tel aviv .
then they made a research in what products they would be trading .
naitty had known from his old grocery stores commerce , that people wanted to be fed by products they had been familiar with especially in what they were used to eat in their mothers homes .
he understood that the horizon is not so fine it is barred by beaurocrates who would refuse to supply you foreign exchange for buying abroad everything you want .
the state of israels economy was then very poor , based mainly on agriculture , small stores , light industry , and hiring people by the government getting them have a desk or letting them dig and cover pits for the sake of registrating them as employed .
yes , there was also more productive employment some were handed shovels , for planting woods on hills and on mountains , but no one was expecting a fruitfull harvest for years to come .however , as naitty understood the situation from reading the newspapers , the smart leader ben gurion had become aware that help should come from germany .
its leaders had a sense of guilt about the holocaust , and wanted to appear to other nations as repentants of what the nazi regime had done to the jews .
so it happened , that the germans agreed to help the embryo state of israel .
they provided it funds for investment in industrial plants and in modern machinery , including transportation equipment .
as an outcome of that , naitty was soon smelling a well made transaction .
as he was moving , by bus or taxi from one food industrial plant to another , he saw a transporter parking near noodles macaroni factory .
he asked the driver wheres his boss .
i will hand him , added naitty , ten thousand dollars , that are much more than the exchangeble amount of deutch marks needed to buy that german dkp transporter .
would he make a deal with me ?
i think so .
go to him .
he is called isaac isatzky .
that was naittys first well done deal .
as he wanted to buy a transporter , his seller isaac had organized official papers that said xyz food factory is in a need of a second transporter for its own use .
the israeli government beaurocrates had stamped it , and so the original importer was xyz , not naitty .
but naitty immediately purchasd the vehicle , including its original papres , without a problem .
all that because no one except factory owners and friends was allowed to get foreign currency .
the stated above method of making business was not rare at that time but as soon as naitty became aware of another big business problem in the country , he was decisive to solve it in his own peculiar way a month of travelling with the new transporter , and supplying by it regular products , buying them in food factories or from importers , had shown naitty that he could have only a small profit as a result .
so , when one day he felt a great desire to taste cattle sausage , generally only hens meat was sold in the market he began to search for such a product .
somebody told him that the army was using a ground cattle meat , mixed with bread .
it was called loof only that kind of sausage was available .
naitty wondered i want an irregular spiced sausage , made from a kosher butcherd ox !
he said , id like to eat various kinds of sausages , hell !
he shouted at an acquaintant , a supplier of dried beans and lentils , who had known what meat a man could obtain .
sausage is a rare product here , scarcely produced .
there is now a food factory , that has brought new machinery its from the german compensations money , to grind the meat .
but that firm has gotten a monopoly for that .
so they mix the meat with bread , by that making a lot of money .
whatever , the people in this small state would hardly eat sausage , so the beaurocrates claim .
well , said naitty , and went to those clerks .
he heard that the monopoly contract could not be canclled .
if so , said naitty to effy , i will ask my friend in ny to offer me a price for a unit of shmock geshmak tasty sausage .
it should cost a little bit less than ten dollars , that is a sausage price here when you divide the present sausage price in israel by the official exchange rate .
im sure , that the price in ny is much less than here so ill import sausage .
i know that no one will allow me to have foreign currency and a special import license for that and i cant bribe anyone here , as a person who doesnt know you long years will be afraid so , i will just hide my sausages , that ill buy in america within sacred books , !
these are allowed to be freely imported , even not paid , as many are given as gifts to some synagogues in israel by the orthodox society of kosher food in ny .
so , my additioinal profit out of that is just at hand , and great this time we should be much more cautious than you had been in the new york grocery , said effy to naitty .
yes , effy .
first of all , we wont manage a grocery store here .
we will use the wonderful dkw transporter for buying a necessary stock of products .
as we have that storehouse , hired in levinsky street , well put the stock there am i right , effy ?
of course , said effy , everything that you say , i bless amen .
well .
now hear my further plan .
i hear that some ashkenazy jews here are getting already personal compensation for the horrible crimes of the nazies .
these men dwellings are mainly in the towns centers , or in very new suburbs , aving high building standard .
i shall travel there to groceries , and offer also a real kosher calb meat , not pig , god forbid .
i shall import that also from u.s. , but that will take place only next year after we will have seen what advance weve made with our existing supplies .
take into account , said effy , that we should also offer a morrocan kuskus to some people in the negev .
the jews from morroco like this yellow grind , as you like ashkenazy chulent .
okey , i suspect thatr you take care of the negev , after having gone there to a learn israeli original dances , isnt it so ?
yes , said effy , but next tuesday ill be more sure about that .
i wish you all the best .
dont invlove me , ive two left legs .
ill remember that , smiled effy .
i think well have a pink future here , with gods help .
for the time being we are doing well .
only that god would give his stamp for two weddings .
its very important , raising a family here .
and its burning there , between our legs .
right ?
im younger than you , said effy , but for you its pressuring .
there is a fire in there for everyone of us , said naitty , we are relatives , in flesh and blood and spirit .
we are best cousins and best friends , so having a wonderfult partnership .
chapter 37 at that time effy was really heading to the south of the country .
on tuesday evenings he would visit a dancing class , organized by beer sheba small municipality and district kibbuts union .
he would pay attention there to some pretty girls , coming to study original israeli popular dances , as well as russians ones .
no british or french or american country dances .
but effy didnt mind .
he was satisfied , that after a hard workday , loading and unloading boxes and sacks , full of many types of products , he could come to a cultural place , and try to move his tired limbs and uplift his spirit .
at first he was standing aside , looking at the girls , who were braver than guys , in trying to make some movements listening to the guide woman and to the music that was bursting loudly from the electric recorder .
while his eyes were trying to hunt a certain girls eyes , he saw her girl friend slipping , and falling on the floor .
effy stretched his hand to her , and helped her to rise .
she thanked him , and he opened a conversation , that seemed to him to be promising .
he asked her politely how was her feeling after the fall .
she said very well .
and thanks again .
he continued to ask if she had come alone .
she said no , with my girl friend , etty .
and so the acquaintance went further on , and the girl invited effy to visit her home one day .
maybe she had done so , after having become to know his hebrew strange accent and way of speaking , which indicated that he had been a foreigner .
at that time , as well as nowadays an american was a highly respected personality in israel .
girls had been used to and had the right to think that most of americans were rich and so on , though it had not been the full truth .
knowing that hedwa this was her name was the only girl who had shown any interest in talking with him , effys head was filled with pride .
on thursday he brought hedwa a present of milk chocolate packet .
he had found out that except her , also her old father was in the house .
he was a religious jew from tunis or moroco .
effy didnt care , and accepted to wear a cap that hedwa handed him , as a gesture for her father , who would see an american guy , who was well educated and not ignorant of judaism or whatever effy told hedwa he was distributing food and sweets all over the negev and center of the country .
he was quite satisfied with what he was doing .
his cousin was working with him , he added .
after an additional short talk , effy discovered that hedwa was a sister of the well known singer semadar , one of the girlsingers .
let me try to talk english with you , said hedwa in hebrew , my sister , who had visited the states not long ago , told me how important was the english language .
i want to study some words , in addition to what i know .
i have finished six classes at school , and we have not learned a lot .
ill be very glad , and speak slowly , said effy , but we will talk also hebrew , to help me elaborate what i need .
he understood that hedwa had been raised by a good and honest and modest family .
though she was living far from tel aviv , and it would be quite an effort of two hours drive to see her , effy decided to court her his joint business with naitty was extending activity in the south .
he began to like hedwas way of talking and smiling and looking at him , and it was enjoying for him to answer her questions about his parents i have parents , of course .
i am their only son , and they are feeling quite lonely now .
oh , im sorry .
said hedwa .
when ive heard about your big family , said effy , i understood what an advantage it had been to all involved .
im lucky to i have a cousin here , nathan , who is my business partner .
both of us are sore , he added , that we have left my parents behind .
they are his uncle and aunt but its not awful .
i mean their financial condition .
they are living comfortably .
effy understood that hedwas mercy had been wrapped him already , and she was interwaving her fingers with his , and advanced her loins to his .
my sister will be here with the singingirls , she said , so well go out together to see their show .
okey ?
of course , he said and she wrote a note with the exact date and hour , and handed it to effy .
ill come with naittys transporter to pick you up , he smiled .
would you bring your cousin too ?
he has some suppliers here , that he would like to talk to .
we have already spoken about the target of my travel .
what target ?
she asked .
you are my target , dear hedwa .
you !
he laughed and she joined him in that .
i know that the vehicle is owned by him , she said .
but you dont be frustrated because of that , effy .
i am sure that youll buy also a new one to yourself .
it will be even better than his .
okey , said effy .
if naitty would be happy to help you , she said , he is a good man .
well , you are welcome , effy .
thank you again .
but it bothers me , she suddenly said , that your parents are there alone , without a family .
i would have brought them here to israel .
no , they are too old for this hard country and difficult climate .
but rich people like them , you know .
they are very rich , and can afford themselves evento be going to florida in summertime , and so on .
but they will be dead to see you , im sure .
one day maybe youll see them here , said effy , they will come to a visit i am sure .
or maybe you will travel to america .
of course , she said , i hope that one day i will be there , and see wonderful things .
but they are a kind of parsimoniuos persons , arent they ?
if they had sent you here , to work so hard .
no , i am an ethical kind of man .
i wouldnt dare to take a lot from my old people .
i have come here as im a traditional guy .
not so religious , but god believer .
a prayer for me is a prayer , and preferrably where were close to god , here ...
if you take my cousin as an example , he is a much more religious person than myself .
hes an orthodox jew .
therefore weve both arrived here .
naitty had once manged a part of my parents business .
because of his extraordinary religiousity he decided to emigrate to the holy land now they have found another jewish manager , instead of him .
after listening to effys pride about his family , hedwa was pushing her breast even more tightly to his arm and shoulder .
now effy said there is a little problem with naitty .
he is almost thirty , and having here no girlfriend yet , he it would have been well if we could find some girl fit for him , she said .
look , i would talk to my sister .
maybe she can find a spare ticket for next weeks show here , which naitty would also attend no .
im sorry .
she has too much friends , begging to have tickets free of charge we could try to to find tickets for the show in tel aviv , of next month , said effy , nathan will see it there .
you know ?
she said in slow hebrew , my sister , semadar , had met a young american , who has recently come to israel .
like you .
he also was in new yok , in a suburb mantattenn .
hedwa , said effy , you have meant manhatten .
so , this just friend , not exactly boyfriend , hedwa looked into effys eyes , to see if he had understood her exactly , this friend had come to israel , in order to volunteer to the parachutists unit .
now hes already in the army .
his name is humik .
maybe you have met such a guy in new york , effy ?
why do you ask that ?
you know how big is new york ?
and america as a whole ?
ive forgotten how many millions are dwelling in new york .
mayb six millions , much more than in israel .
but are you sure that his name was humik ?
an israeli born youth ?
yes , she said , so , maybe youve known him ?
no , but i heard such a name , from a friend of a friend of him .
that humik is a little strange fellow .
a month ago my sister had told me , that humik said he would pick up stars from the sky and put them on her cushion , like they had been flowers .
so , is he courting her ?
not at all .
but she said that today a man gets mad for a beautiful girl like her .
she is prettier than me .
a little , thats the truth .
if youll listen to her sad songs , youll have such a wish to weep .
what topics has she chosen to sing about ?
oh , about lost days or nights .
or about a drawning ship .
or about sad clowns .
every song is fit for a particular audience .
for example before the army soldiers she would sing happy songs , about love , about cats , about movies .
and you say , that she is not a girlfriend of that humik ?
no , they are just good acquaintances .
she had a friend , who had been his girl friend , a short time .
do they already broadcast your sisters songs in the radio ?
he asked .
of course .
the singingirls are famous now .
you can hear them in your transporters radio .
you have there a radio , dont you ?
effy nodded , and looked at his watch .
how many months has this humik already been in our land ?
more than a year ?
no , i am sure .
said hedwa , only a few months .
you ask it , as if suddenly you have become aware that you know him .
what was he doing there in new york , do you know ?
because the guy humik , that i heard about , had come from los angeles .
listen , i am three years younger than sermadar , and i have not inquired so much details .
oh , he said and scratched his forehead , i have to think why i had asked you all that .
he began meditating , if he should tell her what he had known about humik .
no .
humik would prefer , of course , that nobody would know or talk about raphaella .
therefore effy said lets leave that subject .
it seems like i mixed up two humiks .
oh , im in a hurry now , hedwik .
would you like this new name that ive just given you ?
hedwik !
see you again .
youll get me and the transporter next week , and well see the show together .
she escorted him to the courtyard .
a guyava tree was growing there , and she kissed effy under it .
a swift rain shower of april made their faces wet .
effy was running to beer sheba centers square , where naittyy was waiting for him with the transporter , to take both back to tel aviv .
it was a windy evening , like citizens there were used to .
naitty closed his vehicles windows , and waited patiently for his cousin .
that humik is for sure our humik effy told himself .
ill consult with naitty , if ive to tell something to hedwa .
if humik is a boyfriend of the singer , a fact that her sister doesnt know then i may have an ethical problem really , i dont have anything against humik , so why should i open my mouth ?
to cause a heart pain to a guy , who is a patriot and a soldier ?
what humik had done , like my cousine had done with raphaella , is humiks own busines .
why should i smear mud on him ?
there is some moral defect not only in humik , but in hedwas sister if she is really a girlfriend of such a guy , who is surely an atheist .
not like me or nathan but , really i would have acted like humik , had i the chance to be with raphaella no , naitty is in another category of personal behavior .
he was serious about raphaella .
he loved her , he said , though in a devilish manner .
and that was the real reason , so he told me confidentially , that he had decided to go to israel .
he was afraid she had been lilith , the delegate of satan , and would have stabbed him , had he remained in u.s .
the cousines were discussing humiks matter , while already driving toward tel aviv .
no doubt my girl friends sister is friendly with our humik from manhatten , said effy , but he saw that naitty had been indiffernt to his chat .
so he became silent , meditating again instead of thinking about humik , i have to concentrate on hedwa herself .
think logically , yes ... had she been only just three inches taller , and three inches thicker , then she would have been an ideal bride for me .
i know that shes a little bit infantile , but whos not ?
shes the type of a woman that i can live with and love how had i forgotten ?
i myself and naitty are dealing with food .
so , i will cause her to eat much more fat food , like geese meat .
she is too meagre now .
then ill buy her in the best cosmetics store very good creams for face and hands and shoulders and legs and whole body .
then ill buy a vermallion colored lipstick , that will make her doll faced .
then her nails will get a treatmnet , and be smeared by burdeu color .
i know that in america they had started to extend the size of the breast naitty , asked effy , what dyou know about extending a womans breast by a plastic operation ?
would it disturb you , had you been a husband of such a woman ?
generally not , answered naitty , encircling his steering wheel and grabbing it fiercely , as a semitrailler had surpassed them and forced naitty to drive deep onto the roadside .
take , for example , raphaella , continued naitty , she had a wonderfully shaped nose .
did you know that she had been operated , after having a serious accident , that almost erased her nose ?
so but please , donty mention her any more .
im deadly longing .
enough !
i sometimes think wed been mistaken leaving everything behind us .
oh , god .
dont worry , said effy .
god will help , he has already begun with me .
some days later the two american guys have already met semadar , hedwas sister .
they were seated in cafe ruth in dizengoff street , and semadar said something to effy in hebrew .
he and naitty had understood her talk .
you know what ?
after i had left my singer friend tamar in new york , and returned to israel there were rumors .
about who ?
asked effy .
about that humik .
the guy that you had known in new york , so hedwa had told me .
why have you reminded him now ?
asked effy in a rebuke .
because we had then received a letter from humiks friend .
mike .
and he tell him , hedwa .
mike wrote , that humik was not such an innocent fellow as we had originally thought .
he was doing a very nasty job .
i suggest that you stop that discussion !
said naitty in english , while rising from his seat .
he pointed on effy , like warning him to stop talking .
humik was continued semadar , who had not understood well naittys words a jigolo of old women , who used to arrive in new york , to see the city and visit manhattens museums .
that was after i had already left new york he had also arrived here two months after me , or more .
naitty sat down calmly , after having heard that humik had been mentioned but only about his activity with old women tourists .
who had invented that rumor ?
he asked loudly , as if to be sure that no other rumor had existed .
the guy humik was no jigolo , and i dont understand why you are talking about him so long .
we dont believe in any rumor about humik .
okey ?
said effy to both sisters .
i dont know , he added , how should behave a man , being gossipped like him shoot his own leg , or what ?
any blame or accuse said naitty , looking at semadar with a strange smile on his lips , she had not felt it to be strange , has to be witnessed by two .
so is written in our torah .
am i right ?
yes , you are right , said semadar , humbly dropping her eyes and aftertward looking at her sister .
hedwa said very complacently okey , humik is a good guy , and maybe there were two oh , hedwa !
why are you talking so badly about a soldier , my acquaintant ?
said semadar .
her eyes had become wet , and she told naitty , looking at his face if you say the rumors are not true , ill beg a pardon from humik within three or four weeks well all receive an invitation from him , to attend his finalizing recruitment ceremony .
i had promised him to come .
you are a good jewish meidl maiden , said naitty , and smoothed her palm then he embraced her shoulders fraternally , while rising from his chair .
she had not felt uneasy by that touch .
chapter 38 a week afterward the girlsingers and erga , their manger , took a taxi to haifa .
their show was said to be on carmel mount , in hadar cinema theater .
suddenly the driver stopped the car due to a puncture .
he went outside to see what was the problem , and asked the girls to go out as well .
please wait at the sidewalk , he said , till ill change the tier .
he was bothering with his tools down on the roadside , as suddenly a transporter was coming from behind .
its driver , naitty freulich , was looking aside , saw semadar , and was taking his vehicle in reverse .
then he was parking it far onto the sidewalk .
cars arrive here in a speed from behind , he said to himself , someone would slip to the margin , and hit a car which is too close to the road , damn it .
bearded naitty got out of the transporter .
he was waving his hand to semadar , who was standing not far and looking to him .
she had notified him two days before about that show in haife .
he said that he would like to attend .
afterward he would have to deal with goods , that have arrived for him in the haifa port .
the taxi driver was busy with the tier , checking the spare wheel .
semadar approached naitty , said hello to him and asked what happened to your partner , effy ?
he is okey .
but he wont come .
he has a job to accomplish .
this is naitty , that ive told you about , semadar introduced him to erga , who turned to look at the bearded man .
he nodded .
semadar went aside with naitty , and continued listening to him .
effy is in the haifa port , he said , releasing some products from the customs , you know .
then he will stand on guard of the boxes near the gate , till ill come to pick him up with the goods .
naitty was leaning toward semadar , and like telling her a secret he was whispering i have prepared something for the three of you .
really , its for you , but i cant disciminate your friends , the other singers .
so , its my present to the whole singingirls band .
its in my car .
youve not come especially for that ?
she asked , surprised .
no , i was on my way to the port , and found the opportunity .
naitty turned to the other girls and erga .
he stil l tried to avoid the impression that he had come only for semadars sake .
ive prepared a a small present for you all , he said , ill bring it to the theater ive finished , they heard the driver saying .
girls , get in .
nathan also got to his vehicle , and the engine roared .
he was soon driving it , bypassing the taxi .
after half an hour naitty appeared in the theaters hall .
he was seated on a regular seat in the first row , after having bought a ticket at the cash outside .
erga paid attention to him , came nearby and was seated next to him .
she was trying to open a conversation with bearded naitty , who had already taken off his capshade hat , remaining with a wide cap on his head .
the illumonation there was poor , so he did not see the sardonic smile that had appeared on ergas lips .
i have not known that you are very very religious , she said .
i am a true god believer .
i dont know if youve heard about that .
but it does not prevent me from attending your show .
there are hosid and litvak jews , who are much more extreme than myself .
maybe , she said , but i dont understand all orthodox religious people .
had i been a god believer , i would have chosen to be a conservative jew , or reformist one .
okey , its your right to choose .
but principally believe in him !
for me a sababath is a real holiday .
no travel , no work .
and i am used to put on me thfilin in the secular days .
thfilin are black cubes , connected to some leather strips .
the torahs main chapters are written inside the cubes , on small scrolls .
ive never seen them , said erga .
i have to do that one day .
at that moment the lights were off and they began listening to the first song .
accordion and guitar were accompanying the girls voices .
suddenly naitty felt like an impetus to stand up and pray .
i donty know what has happened to me this morning , he said to himself , as i woke up , i forgot to pray .
only at eleven a.m. i recalled .
but now ive forgotten to pray minkha afternoon pray and therfore i must pray twice evening prayers .
ok i hear someone already singing on the stage .
shes not semadar god will forgive me that my prayer was belated a voice of a woman can seduce , so said our rabbies .
therefore ill cover my ears by my palms .
avoid mixing the prayer with the singing girls voices .
and we shall bless god from now forever , hallelujah !
now i have to pray twice the eighteen blesses blessed be the god of abraham , god of isaac , and god of jacob .
the great , the brave and the terrible god , almighty naitty , please return to your seat , he heard ergas whisper .
she saw he hasnt yet finished to shake himself and mumble he indicated her to be silent by putting a finger on his lips , and she turned her face to the stage .
she knew he had been semadars acquaintant .
she also had been informed by semadar , that the man was rich , and maybe trying to court her but semadar was claiming i still think that naitty realy loves music , so he had told me .
whatever will be this mans reason for coming here , said now erga to herself , he seems to be a tremendously serious person .
hes a characteristic american smart guy .
they wont have reached all their economical and technical and cultural acghievements including a wonderful entertainment ability without being hard working , industrious , and sophisticated .
oh , she turned to naitty , who had got already seated near her , have you heard the loud applauds ?
the audience feels good .
he suddenly was filled with cold sweat .
he had remembered what he said to effy on the previous night look what a change had become upon me my eighteen prayers are now much more than before filled with devotion to god .
wonderful holy land .
he recalled that while he had been in korea , he was always praying the eighteen prayers while his face and body were turning to east !
but now he understands that its not the correct manner take a map of the globe , and find there the location of jerusalem if you are in korea for example you have to turn to south east , in order to be facing jerusalem .
because korea is up on the globe , and jerusalenm is down .
so our tradition commands to turn to jerusalem precisely , and youve to obey that .
you can also turn your face to west south , as this world is a ball .
a real ball !
he looked at the stage .
our torah interpreter , rushi , he soon continued to meditate , had already mentioned that ball before columbus had based his sailing westward instead of eastward , in order to reach india .
by that he had discovered america , of course all that was also made by god , who decided to rescue some jews from poor and murderous europe .
so , he had sent them to the new world !
oh , my ears had missed the last song , as i was too much bothered in meditating yes , rushi wrote about the ball in his interpratation to genesis legends .
in that book is also mentioned an ancient monsters , like dinosauer or mamuth .
also it said , that god had created and destroyed many worlds , before our little globe there is also written about cains dog .
cane is dog in latin and old greek .
so , when cain had been punished by god to be blinded , he was given a leading dog to take him as a vagabond on earth .
god had made a sign on his forehead , cains sign o god , do i also need such a sign ?
no , ill escape from that condemning sign .
because i dont she was guilty of what had happened , and god in the sky knows that well .
sooh , ive missed a second nice song , of tzvia .
but now ill listen to semadar he restrained himself , not to shout something from joy as now he had known that semadars voice was really attractive and enchanting he was listening to her hebrew words , that at first he could only partly understand .
therefore he immediatelly repeated some of them in his mind .
then he suddenly asked excuse me , erga .
whats the hebrew word zaakatam ?
she hesitated to answer , and whispered shsh , afterward .
the first rhyms in the poetic song that semadar was singing , were as follows hereby translated into english by me , the humble author .
as nobody really remebers nowadays who was the verse writer or who composed the music no one would ever get royalty payments for it .
the autumn trees , in their nakedness were stretching their arms toward the sky .
praying by reading an old elegy to goodness , begging that he would not neglect them thereby .
the song went on , describing the winter that its storms break the trees then excelling the flourishing spring , with its trees growing into new life with birds coming to them and at last it was bringing the message of the sweet fruits of summer trees naitty was so excited by that song , that he had almost broken in a weep .
the fact that he had understood the mood of the text and the deep significance of its words , and the nice music meeting those had brought him to ecstasy he began shaking while seated , to right and left , onward and backward .
he mumbled oh , im so satisfied from that rare phenomenon , that grabs my hair and takes me to far distances of the soul .
all that has been caused by semadars singing , so amazing and enchanting .
god has created her to sing , she fulfills a message from him , and she is his delegate i am thankful that i can understand hebrew , one of the ancient languages in the universe .
its a holy language , that some jews not me hinder their families to use it , saying that we are all dumped on this dirty earth with myriads of sinful people except us and having other absurd beliefs but i say the opposite we must use hebrew , because the torah is a living entity .
it had been written in hebrew , and all its interpreters used hebrew , including the talmud .
so , why should not the simple people know it and speak it , too ?
therefore the lubavitcher rabbi was telling people to study hebrew .
he is antagonizing those super puritan litvaks and sotmers , who refuse to use it daily .
now i recall , that when i came a second time to lubavticher to tell hime that a yeshiva wont be fit for us and again ive spoken about my bad financial situation , he told me go forth , like god said to abraham .
go to your land !
i had been afraid , that i would discover something about the horrible night to the rabbi .
i would have mixed him up in a crime , god forbid .
and how nice he was that at the end of our meetiong he gave me his sacred dollar .
he is used to render such a faked dollar to millions of his fans .
no , call them god believers , not just rabbis fans !
lubavitcher gave a nice blessing to me nathan freulich .
he said your name nathan indicates that you are an offspring of prophet nathan .
and godll take care of you , so said the rabbi , by his prophetic intuition youll travel along the land , and so make your living all that has been realized now .
the day is not far , that my redemption will come .
without too much tricks or shtiks as you may say .
i will be liked by many people , and be loved by a woman , who i know already .
patience , man .
chapter 39 semadar entered the cabin of naittys transporter .
he was said to drive her to beit daras in the south , for humiks end of recruitment ceremony , open to the public .
effy was not there nor hedwa , as she had suddenly decided to buy a new dress in tel aviv , and effy joined her .
he would escort her back home by bus , and by bus return to tel aviv .
while seated in the transporter , naitty handed a surprise present to semadar 22 carat gold ring , with flashing five diamonds .
but not only that also a 22 carat gold necklace , and in its center a golden scroll in a length of a third of a finger .
on its face the goldsmith engraved in hebrew how do i love your singing , and on its back all the day it on my lips .
a paraphrase of psalms verse .
i must confess , naitty said to semadar , while she was a little frightened by the gifts , and the transporters engine had already been started , semadar , i dont find words to to what ?
she asked in hebrew .
he answered her also in the holy language , mixing some ancient words with new ones .
she understood he had learned that sentence by heart , and maybe paid to somebody who helped him to style it i will pour out my heart to you , and tell you how deeply your personality and shape impress me .
oh please , please i believe you , naitty .
but i am sorry .
i cant accept that kind of talk .
you put me in just an impossible position .
i had been already thinking seriously about somebody..
i have a relationship with another , she lied to him .
i had already wanted to tell you that , when we saw you in haifa .
it was when you had mentioned to me something about the new album , that you delivered at the end of the show for the three of us together .
it was effys idea , that first naitty would buy a common album for the use of the band .
the three girls would put there pictures that were and would be photographed during their shows .
naitty remembered , that he added there a special page , that preceded the trasnparent pages of the album , for fixing or sticking in those photos .
on that page he asked the artist , who had made that costly album , to write the following sentences for him in hebrew here is the english transaltion from the hebrew origin , of the biblic songs of king solomon may he kiss me with the kisses of his mouth , for your love is better than wine .
the fig tree has rippened the figs .
and the vines in blossom semadar , in hebrew have given forth their fragrance .
so , the word semadar was underlined by a blue pen , and semadar would see it and understand .
however , erga was the person who had gotten the gift from naitty he had hesitated at that phase of relationship to render a personal gift to semadar .
erga had no time to turn pages and look , so she handed the album that the american had brought to tzvia and avia .
naitty had not known that both girls were suspected as lesbians , but not because of that they hated to read the opening page they hated americans more than anything , being a leftish kibbuts natives , and soviet russia oriented .
they saw that present as a capitalistic trick to bribe the working singing class .
so , on the coming day they gave it to semadar , who really looked in and was not so happy .
it was hard for her to digest the idea of having a man of about thirty as a very serious courtier .
she still was simply hesitating the short ceremony of finalization of recruitment had ended very soon , and the crowd of parents and other relatives and friends was waiting to meet their loved ones , or take home a part of them .
semadar caught in distance the sight of humik .
she suggested to naitty they would approach him together , but naitty said please , i dont know the guy very well .
go yourself there , and meet him .
ill wait here , even half an hour .
im sure , that as a new soldier he would certainly like to talk a lot about his activity in the army , and youll like it .
also you have common memories from new york i know he is not your boyfriend now .
i would hate to let you feel , she said , as my personal driver , for arriving here and moving out .
oh , i am matured enough for not thinking like that , he generously said .
semadar moved alone to meet humik .
the soldier was standing with his kitbag , waiting for her on the square of orders .
he was quite excited to see her in a new blue dress , and told her that it was very well tailored .
she was holding a packet wrapped by a presents flashing blue and white cover sheet .
it was a book in hebrew about israels independence war .
a reporter or army officer , who had taken a part in that war , was its author .
humik thanked her , and asked how the singingirls were advancing in their shows .
she answered that erga had been very satisfied from the newspapers criticism , and the audience reaction was very fine all over the country .
then semadar told him about naittys nice present to the singingirls .
i understand , that naitty is the bearded guy there , waiting on the bench far away .
pointed humik toward the seats of the visitors , and she held down his stretched hand .
i had discerned him standing with you there before .
he added .
he had brought me here , she said , he tries to court me , but i have told him that i would not have a serious relationship with him .
but as he has kept trying ive really exploited him for my purpose of visiting here , and see you .
i dont know him , said humik , only heard something about him .
he had a bad business in new york , but succeeded to rescue himself from the banks , i think .
he has now a nice vehicle , she said , according to what he told me on the way here , he had already made a great business in israel and he would extend it .
he deals with supplying many kinds of food to wholesalers and grocery stores .
you know , that ill be soon in the fighter pioneers seed settlemnet ?
he said , it is far , on the south of jerusalem hills .
but youll write or phone me , she said , from time to time .
wont you ?
of course , said humik , and i just want to tell you again be cautious with that guy , nathan .
i am not jealous regarding his courting you .
you and me are just good friends , and i warn you like a friend .
a man who had some financial problems there , maybe you know .
if you continue relationship with him maybe one day youll regret it .
thats my opinion .
shame on you to talk to me like that !
ive told you i have no wish to be courted by him .
ive even lied , that there is somebody else whos going out with me .
i had expected that he would understand .
he is too old for me .
thirty .
humik departed from her in a bad feeling .
her words had not convinced him that she would disregard naitty freulich .
however semadar was satisfied that she had ommitted mentioning to humik the golden personal gifts she had received at that day .
she was very flattered , could not help it , and maybe she even thought it had been a sign from heaven .
humik was very tired .
in addition to semadars matter that bothered him a little now would begin something unknown he would have to live in a semi community , in a remote place .
he knew that over there , in nehusha seed seven guys from his childhood would join him but maybe some would withdraw ?
yes , he was capable to make friends everywhere , but the place itself was seen like an obscure point on the map , and difficult to reach or go out .
no regular bus there even once a day humiks seven friends on the marching square were also departing from their families .
he waited for them after semadar had left him .
soon they all would be driven by a truck of the fighter pioneers youth to their new dwelling in the corner of the world so they were joking about nehusha seed .
chapter 40 the truck was travelling on the flat road leading to bet guvrin lakhish area .
in the bible times , sennacherib assyrias king , has led his army there , to the south of jerusalem .
he wanted to capture the holy city from the southern side .
but something happened according to the bible god had sent a pestillence upon his army and he retreated .
he set up a memorial statue in ninveh , his capital , in which he showed the battle of the town lakhish , which surrendered to him now nahumik was there , gazing at the country around him .
at the far back in south and west , there were just fields growing mainly grass there were also few sqaures of green and yellow wheat or barley , that a human hand had sowed .
but on the east the white beige blue mountains of judea were making the horizon .
they were very similar to humik childhoods grey mountains of samaria , that he never visited hundreds of years they had been held by the palestinians , who remained there on the truck were seated only eight guys , and humik understood from their discussion that about half of the youths who had taken part in the original meeting , a few months before had already changed their plan all the girls preferred old seeds , having settled before by elder guys .
three guys of the original group had volunteered to the armoured tanks squads however , new five guys will now be joining the nehusha settlers they would come to service there as lonely soldiers without being before in a certain group .
they had preferred to be registered as singles , and were decisive as all the others , to establish a new agricultural seed village , ready for hard work the road came over a crest , and flattened out , as they were approaching their seed settlement .
the ground was now less green , and the truck engines noise had become louder , while climbing a hill , full of big and small stones , protruding from the hard ground nearby and far away .
they saw a sloped hill , on which there was some small building , characteristic for a setup of pumping machinery .
also two tents and two wooden huts were discerned .
as the truck was moving slowly toward that place , the soldiers , still in army uniforms , saw that two civilians were waiting for them , waving their hands .
im the rep of the pioneering youth settlers department in the defense ministry , said one of them , after the comers had jumped down from the truck .
the other said and im your agricultural guide .
im an agronomist .
each of the group members was holding his kitbag , as the ministry guide had shown them their dwelling places .
humik was rushing to a hut , together with a guy , named jacque .
they had been together before on the truck , and became friendly there .
what will we raise here ?
asked jacque , while they have arrived to their room , its a total desert .
i think that the expert agronomist has already mentioned cocumbers and tomatos , said humik .
we have to raise here girls , the guy was laughing .
he was a youth from morroco , having three brothers .
he volunteered to settle there , because his family was living not far he thought he would be able to steal from that point and see them more than others would be able to see their families .
how well you have done , remarked humik , i swear i would have changed families with you .
my family is in america sorry i have no sister to offer you , smiled jacque malka .
they were soon called to a first meeting with the agricultural guide and the ministry representative .
it had taken place in the deserted pumping machinery structure , in which two benches were set up , near the rusted old pumping machine .
okey , guys , said the agronomist guide , we will be in touch for the whole coming year .
after that youll be mobilized to the nahal parachutists units of the army .
as you know , said the ministry delegate , these units are one of the best that the army has .
now the parachutists get a commando course .
.. one of these units has already participated in a revenge and deter operation beyond the border , and very successfully .
the earth here is difficult to be cultivated , said the agronomist , so , in your first period here youll remove small stones from an area , that is planned for raising olive trees .
ten such trees i have already planted here myself .
in the first days humik was irrigating the young olives , that had just been planted .
soon a new pump was brought for that matter .
the water was drawn from an internal spring within the hills , that were full of carstic holes and caves .
in the first two nights the guys were sleeping on mattresses , laid on the huts cement made floor .
the mattresses were filled with some tough grass .
sometime it was peeping out from the cloth , and stinging the guys buttocks or knees .
but they knew , that only living stinging creatures , like bees or scorpions or spideers , had to be worried about .
luckily they wont deal with those ... on the third day a truck was bringing iron beds to all the twenty people , who had already been gathrered there .
the beds were made with iron springs , that not always were in a good shape and well functioning but that was a common phenomenon in those days .
the nights were still cold , though spring season had ended , only into the plain locations of the country a warm weather was coming .
so , the guys were covering themselves with old blankts , that were cleaned in an army automative laundry near tel aviv .
against insects they were using small naftalin white balls , put into the blankets folds .
they guys had been already well organized , but jacque malka continued to complain girls are missing here .
i know that in other seed settlements they are full .
we are in a rotten hole its an impossible place to live .
we are jailed , and cant go out .
jacque , you calm down , said humik , we are only at the beginning .
girls will come later , well persuade some .
but i wonder about you i thought that guys who were born to jewish families from morocco or tunis were very religious that only a marriage would solve their sex problems .
no , said mlaka , i am from casablance .
i was educated in a commercial school there .
we had full of girls pupils studying with us .
yes , we were jews and jewesses , visiting the synagogue on sabath .
but at school we were sitting beside the girls , while studying commerce and bookeeping and so on .
so , you regret that all had passed , and long for the old days , smiled humik .
of course , said jacque , in the intermissions of our learnings , we were taking the girls on our knees , and digdigdig..
i understand , laughed humik .
he said that really , they should find out what to do with the girls problem .
so , he and jacque wrote a note , asking all the seeds guys to arrive together to dinner in the big huts mess dining room at eight p.m. subject discussion about a serious problem .
two girls should come to our mess here , told them jacque .
theyll boil us soups and prepare us coffee and tea .
we will give them full respect .
its very disappointing here to be on mess duty .
i have never boiled anything as a teenager .
i hate it .
so , somebody must bring us girls .
we should search girls voluteers all over the country .
sombody laughed off the coffee boiler from his hands .
there was also a more serious matter nights of guard duty had begun there .
the guards had to stand at the gate of the seed , that would be locked at night .
then they would patrol around the huts and tents and pump machinery .
the whole area had been 200 x 100 meters , but everyone had known that they were really guarding their own bodies , as the property there had been worthless .
however , the declared purpose of that settlement was to deter arab infiltrators , who would pass this place , that leads from hebron and bethlehem mountains into the plain of lakhish .
the army itself would once a week supply two jeeps for night patrol over there , so dont disregard your importance here , said the rep of the defence minisdtry in the first days speech in the evenings they would be singing sometimes , and humik liked it .
he remebered old songs , like oh , foot , raise yourself , and was singing it solo , as no one except himself had ever listened to such a song .
then there was the beloved song my flag is lined with a blue thread be my brother , give a hand .
also the song the village is asleep , the mountains are gazing at it from above chapter 41 i dont mind , that you try to write hebrew poems in your free time , said solomon to his wife ramona , though , it would come instead of helping me in my screenplay editing .
it seemed that humiks parents had become jealous of each other as artists solomon in his film production trial , and she in her hebrew white verse or simple prose , we dont know exactly .
i am doubtful , said solomon , if a woman , writing in hebrew but from america , will be accepted by any israeli editor or publisher .
you risk to hear them say , that they have enough trash in their country they dont need to import that .
i dont tell you my judgement about your poetry , as i havent read it .
i see that you hate my experimental writing .
you have tried for two years to produce your film , and havent yet succeeded .
lets bet who will see his artistic creation first , in public .
okey , ill hear you .
please summarize very shortly the main story and the idea behind your poem .
okey , i see you have calmed down .
i had heard that story from elkano , youll wonder .
once he had listened to a lecture of a wise jew , who came to speak in a kibbuts , where elkano was living for a short time it took him one month to conclude that to live such a place had not been for him .
i know .
now the mans surname was kluger .
how symbbolic .
kluger in yiddish and in german is wise .
that kluger was obssesively dealing with statistics and data about famous and excelling jews .
not rabbis , who had always been known in the inner circle of the jews but those who were famous also to other nations .
for example he had made a list of all nobel prize winners , up to that time , when elkano was a teenager .
he found that jews had thirty percents of the nobel prize winners , despite antisemitism .
and he had a theory why .
really , why ?
asked solomon .
oh , that is written in my poem .
sounds interestring , said solomon .
though i dont know klugers private name , ive called him on your name solomon , which means as wise as king solomon .
agreed , laughed solomon kaplansky .
i will read a part of it .
this poem begins with claiming that the jews had loved the diaspora , or their exile since they had been in egypt , so the bible tell us .
okey , go on but that move around the world does not make them wiser , or having an excellent mind relatively more than other nations .
ill read jews had been vagabonds a very long time , moving among nations and countries .
they were not missionaires , but they were asked in what kind of god they had believed and worshipped .
they answered the one , that is unseen , virtual , abstract but despite that he is a warrior and just and appears in time , and intervenes in history though he is eternal he could not be described , as he has no material entity , nor an energy .
fine , interrupted solomon , because these two concepts as well as qualities are exchangeable , as einstein had proved .
god is spirit and unlimited and within and out of all what we know .
continued ramona , he would come to some men only in full thin silence , or in vision .
because of his non attainable characteristics , dont wonder that very wise people from foreign nations fell in love with such an abstract and obscure entity .
these had been extraordinary minded men , who were feeling before , that their idols are none and or nonesense .
so , as aritoteles told us , as a man gives birth to a man , not to a horse nor to a monster the offspring of those geniuses were also jews , that still today have special capabilities for study also they have a certain intuition , that othres have relatively less , or lack at all .
but they should not be proud of that , said solomon , first , because they had not foreseen the holocaust .
second , the original biblical jews were few , and nowadays the jews are even fewer , what will bring their end , as their present rabbis would hardly allow others to join them .
your last sentences , said ramona , are correct .
but if i add them to my poetry , it would seem clumsy , a whole treatise .
you have begun to think about god , mocked solomon , you know why ?
you miss your father , who was a rabbi .
right , and i am longing to my son humik , who i had sent to study with a rabbi at that moment ramona discerned little danny standing by her , listening or asking something .
danny , she said , i will be thankful if you dont disturb us now .
you see i am talking with papa .
yes , a copybook with crossed column line pages can also be used for drawing or writing poems , okey ?
the boy left the living room , telling himself they were again in the movies world , that make them both nervous .
you finalise your poem , ramonka .
said solomon .
then take a tour to israel .
ill write you a check to buy flight tickets , for you and for danny .
i wont close the store for that , and ill remain here alone for a week or so .
you desreve that vacation .
it will disturb you from dealing with the film production .
but thank you , dear solomon , said ramona .
i am again in a deadly mindb arrier , so it wont hurt , he said .
chapter 42 after a month of hard work and long , deep meditations humik decided that he had been feeling bad with the agricultural effort .
he was also fed up with the society there , that had been dull and boring for him .
it seemed like he should find a way to rescue himself from that hole , as jacque called it and wanted to leave , too yes , the defence ministry rep had promised humik to bring a henscoop there , and the guys started to think also about a herd of twenty sheep .
but all that was likely to be far from being realized and there was nothing interesting in these kinds of effort either .
i was said , thought humik , to go to the fireteam course almost a year from now .
maybe i can get it earlier .
i have to write to the command of the youths pioneering .
they would decide what to do about me .
i was one of three most excellent guys in the recruitment .
the high command would be able to verify thatokey , im writing all that with my parker pen , that mom had sent me by mail , so that i would remember to write her from time to time .
i send you a parker , as the other pens are awful , so she ended her note , attached to it .
two weeks after having written to the command , humik received an official units transfer order !
it had a signed order for him to move to nathan camp near beer sheba .
cursed nathan he smiled to himself .
there he would begin the fireteam course for parachuters , emerging from the youth pioneering seeds .
it would take about six months of training .
humik was enlisted there as solitary private , according to the army regulations he was not a part of a certain seed , that from it were many soldiers enlisted together to that course .
he was satisfied that he had succeeded so easily to change his military status , despite the terrible beaurocracy that he heard about .
he was allowed three days of vacation , before the course would begin .
moving with his kitbag , he took a bus to tel aviv .
he wanted to see the town , where he would sleep in the city officers hostel , watch some movies in daytime , and visit friends from the textile store , in which he had worked a few months before .
of course , he wanted to meet semadar .
for that he went to erga lifshits office , to inquire where he could find her , as semadar had not answered his call to ruth cafe .
ergas office was closed .
so he went to dizengoff street , where semadar was living .
he knew that the streets sidewalk is visited by most of the entertainers in the country .
so maybe she would be near the crossroads circle , a center for all meetings .
in caf roval its chairs and small tables were intruding the sidewalk humik discerned a bearded man , whom he had seen before from far .
he knew that the person was nathan freulich , and became sure about that , after having seen the younger guy seated opposite to him he wore a capeshaded hat , like nathan and humik identified him as effy .
so , these are the two cousins , he told himself .
the two guys were practically occupying three chairs , as nathan freulichs legs were spread nonchalantly on an empty chair beside him .
they were drinking something , and humik knew that he would not like to have anything with them .
hello mister cholera plus master pestillence , he told himself .
what happened with naittys love affair with raphaella ?
when semadar told me about the american , whose name was naitty i had thought about my personal naitty , though there maybe thousands of guys bearing such a name in u.s. or israel now as i see effy , who i recognize well , i am sure that hes sitting with nathan freulich .
it seems that his business has failed or entangled .
that is the reason that hes fled to israel .
as for effy i had known , for long , his wish to be here .
well , i have to warn semadar again .
i cant bear these both guys he went to semadars rented room and found a note on the door .
it was saying naitty , i had to travel to kibbutz mishmarot .
well have there a show in the evening .
before that we have to have a rehearsal on stage in that place humik went back along the street .
the singingirls are succeeding , chapeu !
he said to himself .
he remembered that he had wanted to wish her good luck last satuday , still in nehusha seed , he was listening on the radio to the singingirls new song , which also jacque malka enjoyed .
he saw the cousines again .
they had finished drinking and rose up , but did not pay attention to him , a lonely soldier in vacation .
yes , he repeated to himself , these are naitty and effy , don quixote and sancho pansa .
chapter 43 at the same day ramona and her son danny arrived in israel .
humik had known that before he received her letter still being in nehusha settlement .
it had informed him the good news , and now he was waiting for them in the lobby of a small hotel in tel aviv , where they were said to stay for five days and nights .
in this opportunity humik got a present from his mother , but it was sent to him personally by solomon a nice brown leather coat , that had been owned by elkao .
maybe the hero had worn it once or twice .
in the common grave i could not place that , solomon said sarcastically to his wife , so i have kept it very well and your son will use it till it becomes well worn out .
kaplasky himself was dressing a short suede brown coat , in the quite warm winter of la .
it was really a nice coat and it matched humiks body measures .
he was only complaining to his mother , that he would have to delay wearing it , as winter has already passed .
ramona said she had known that , but she would not come next winter to israel , so he should keep it now in the nehusha village as she said .
humik had not told her about the brave quick step he had taken , joining already the parachuters fireteam course , that will very soon begin .
humik was feeling very well with the coat , while he was wearing it .
he appreciated solomons generosity , letting him have that expensive coat , that the warmness of elkanos body was still beaming from its inside parts , .
ramona was inquiring humik about the nehusha village .
she had learned that it was quite interesting for him to return to agricultural work , dig plates for irrigating the olives and grow vetetables .
the guarding tasks on that border were not dangerous , he said , and they were all feeling well .
yes , one day , maybe next year , she would visit there and see henscoops next day humik , ramona and danny took a bus to humiks old hometown .
they arrrived there at noon .
the boy danny had been left to play with the son of ramonas friend , hemda , while humik and ramona were strolling at the circle in crossroads hertzl and rothchild avenue , looking at the old houses and telling each other about the changes that had taken place there .
ramona suddenly said , that she had wanted to forget the far past , and talk about the near one humik , i want to tell you what i had heard last week from simone richland .
a terrible story .
what was it ?
her niece , raphaella the girl with whom you had some relationship something terrible had happened to her .
terrible ?
he asked , thinking that maybe raphella had been hospitalised , due to a complicated abortion operation , or something like that .
s h e is not alive any more !
said ramona very loudly .
what ?
humik remebered he had seen naitty only a day before .
it seems like she had made suicide , or even worse one of her gang had murdered her .
it was a few months ago , and simone had told me only last month .
she was weeping , having heard that , so she said .
simone had known the girl since childhood .
oh , im sorry for raphaella , he said , to me she seemed to have a strong character .
its your luck , that it had all happened after you left new york .
if not it would have blown our heads , that case .
the local police will close the file .
maybe also fbi has been involved , i dont know .
really , its a regular case there , that a young woman is found drawn in a pool .
whatever , if they reach you and try to inquire you should talk as less as possible , do you understand ?
dont be entangled .
you have not known who were her friends or aquaintances , or who she was meeting , and so on .
solomon was truly telling me to add this you keep yourself , also for the sake of your small family , that worries about you as you can not imagine .
when somebody takes some imbalanced steps , like you had done in your short life , all his poor family might suffer .
i know egotism is burninmg in the viscera of many young people like you , and each has that deep disregard of his dear worrying and loving relatives mom , stop talking to me like that .
im grown up .
i dont mean only you , dear humik but please , wherever you would be remember solomons wise and careful point of view about the scarcity of life in the universe , as he would call it .
yes , you know his bitter life experience .
i have the same bad feeling so , please have pity on me .
her eyes were wet .
chapter 44 again and again was naitty proposing to semadar , but she would be still delaying her answer .
if you hesitate because of my age , he said daringly , you can try to be in bed with me .
ill shake you , as nobody can , and ill teach you such sexy positions , that he knew he would make her angry by saying that , but wanted to challenge her she has to say yes , or even if it is a no let it be final and absolute .
naitty , its better that you concentrate in learning some things that are my interest and fill my life .
im still feeling that you have to meet my cultural background , and fill some gaps i will continue to be a singer even if i agree to be engaged to you .
i swear it will be a honor for me , he said enthusiastically in hebrew , i am not so wicked or ignorant or extreme religious to avoid you realize a thing , that is rooted in your neshoma i mean in your soul and spirit and love of life .
i am sure we can handle all that .
i have brought you a book about music , said semadar , and about how words should meet melodies , and so on .
please read it carefully and well talk about some ideas written in it .
of course ill reads that , he promised .
he really tried , while he was alone in his hired room .
it was a very hard book to read .
but then effy came to that common room , and naitty was happy to stop his hard trial .
he knew he should still walk quite a long road , but his wheels were stable on it , slowly riding to the right direction of his wishful target .
it was the last day of humiks vacation .
he had tried again to meet semadar , and was walking toward her dwelling .
at that time naitty and effy had just entered senadars room .
they were talking , while semadar was preparing them coffee , that she would bring to the table with pieces of an english pie .
everything is in the hands of heaven , she heard effy saying in hebrew to naitty , god would like to make the people of israel stand again in a testthere are talks in the papers about an impending war .
i am not sure it will happen soon , said naitty , im more optimistic than you a ring was heard from the front door .
semadar rushed to open , and humik came in , with his small uzi submachine gun in hand .
but not for mere impression he had brought it , so he said .
my unit was simply just driving from the north to south .
now we have gotten two free hours , to take a little rest , to refresh and eat something .
humik lied to semadar .
he discerned naitty and effy inside the room , and refused to involve them or her in his motive for moving now to the team commanders course .
semadar asked humik to enter the room .
she introduced him to the two guys there , using her weak english this is humik , that you know about already from new york .
i think that naitty saw him , and effy also said that maybe he she indicated humik to shake hands with them , which he did .
i was not familiar with him in america , reckoned naitty , but ive heard about him .
he smiled , but humik remained cool .
you have not met yet in israel , said semadar , now the time has come .
weve already been a few months here , said effy to him , we are glad to see you in uniform .
hopefully you wont be fighting .
humiks blood was boiling in his veins .
he imagined that some vapour covers the air , and somebody blows stinky hot wind into his dress .
who knows why am i so upset ? he said to himself .
i feel here like in hell , its a furnace heat .
i will go out to the terrace , he told semadar , maybe ive taken a too long walk in this warm noon .
he opened the door to the terrace , and the breeze , comimg from the nearby mediterranean sea coast of tel aviv , improved his feeling .
he returned to the room .
we have quarrelled in new york about something , mentioned effy in english , turning to humik , dyou remember ?
i dont think that here is the place to raise an issue from the past , answered humik .
effy continued to challenge him .
it was an important one , he said , as the place , that we were standing in , was most important .
dont force me to deal with a pile of a forgotten shit .
a pile of shit , that you had lied with .
semadar and naitty were changing looks , and naitty was angry on effy , who stood up , red faced , waving his hand toward humik .
naitty grabbed him by his elbows , then pressured him to retreat , saying vehemently you dont try to quarrel here .
then he stood near humik and smiled to him , like trying to be friendly .
humiks face remained serious .
he saw that semadar was looking at naitty , the fight cooler in interesting eyes , almost in worship .
he did not know if she had understood all effys words , and what was the issue of the talk .
he felt frightened suddenly , as he had known that nobody there was at his side .
who knows , he said to himself .
maybe they were plotting all that before ?
but if he talks directly and explicitly about raphaella , better that i go away immediately , so as not to be embarrassed no , ill tell damned effy something , that would make a mess in his mind , and of course in naittys .
mister effy freulich , humik said , this time in hebrew , so that semadar would well understand , in a quiet and calm room like this nobody should talk about milk that had been spilled .
or about a corpse found in the water .
what have you meant by saying that ?
shouted semadar at humik in rebuke , why do you , men have to speak like that ?
i dont know about what he was talking , said effy .
had humik been looking under naittys yellow dark beard , he would have seen his burning cheeks and some convulsion that had passed them twice .
but from outside nobody could have seen that .
however , naitty was like promptly calmed down .
looking at his watch , .
he rose from his seat and told effy really , i think our visit has come to an end .
we have still to visit shosh halevy in ramat gan .
ive promised to bring her twenty sausages .
come , effy .
effy obeyed him , and both shook hands with semadar and went out .
in the following five minutes , humik told semadar about his life in the seed settlement and was listening to semadars satisfaction from her bands shows she had exhibited to him some recent press reportages and articles about the singingirls , and also pohtos that were printed .
and soon will be outcoming the first gramophone record of our songs , said semadar proudly .
humik mentioned again be cautious with the elder bearded chap .
then he said though today he was very sympathetic .
while the cousins were inside the transporter , effy asked naitty in english what does this soldier know , that we dont ?
naitty , had something happened to your ex girl friend ?
you had been with me when we left america , said naitty and his beard was trembling .
you know ?
i have received a letter from my mom .
you drove yesterday very early to hadera .
so , i was the mail collector .
what .. had your mom written ?
that a month , or less after we had flied to israel , her neighbor mirel , read in the yiddish newspaper forwerts , about a jewish girl , that her death was investigated .
oy vey !
you mean raphaella ?
has something happened to her ?
yes , she is no more alive .
shes made suicide .
so wrote my mom .
the corpse was found in a half empty swimmimg pool .
in a rotten condition , they said .
police announced it was a suicide .
that was their conclusion .
she was really desparate , said naitty , and his hands were trembling .
he nervously and unintentionally turned the wheel , so the the vehicles was already on a sidewalk .
it slowed down but did not stop .
no , she was a strong personality .
he said , and the transporter quite returned to drive straightlined on the street , i wonder , if all that is true .
you ask your mom to read again what they were telling in the papers oh , had my financail situation been better , i would have remained with her .
poor girl .
his eyes were wet but as effy continued to talk about his previous discussion with humik naitty was glad that he had not looked quite at his nervous movements .
i doubt if humik wanted to hint about her , said effy .
maybe he was just throwing a sentence about a corpse , damn him , said naitty , you could understand , that it was very unpleasant for him , that you had mentioned all that .
beacause senadar was present .
god will save her from any trouble .
we have to get her out of that guys influence .
like you i also dont believe , said effy , in a pure friendship between a girl , married or unmarried , with a nice guy like him .
you are right .
said naitty .
you know ?
i heard from my girl friend hedwa , that humik had a trial in new york .
he had been caught in some bad business of fake dollars and drugs .
if so , he is a serious criminal .
with gods help , said naitty , our years here will pass in a just manner .
we wont entangle ourselves by any criminal activity .
at that night it was hard for naitty to fall asleep .
i can not write about all that to aunt hynda in brooklyn , said naitty to himself , because i fear that ny police may still be looking after me .
they may open my enveloped letter by their tricky abilities to hide any trace of peeping inside .
on the other hand , to remain as a blindman at noon , is also very unacceptable .
i must know if they still inquire or what are their speculations maybe i can take effy for being a postman or mediator .
he would send a letter to his mother .
they would trace his letters too .
i doubt if he can restrain himself and not chat on any subject , icluding about that serious case .
so , everyone should walk to his fate , go to his shell , find his self determination i can not contact humik semadar would certainly know where and how to contact him if i ask him as semadars friend , or as a jew who cares about another jew , who had loved her and im sure he had known about me and her , and now knows more about the finding of her corpse .
no .
both are now my enemies effy as well as humik , regarding that issue god has made it , that till now nothing was reqested by ny police or by the israeli police .
they know my name and address , as i have been registered in the interior ministry office here .
sodont i see a mountains shadow as a real mountain ?
now i will try to sleep on my right side .
maybe my heart will be pounding weaker , like a worn out clock .
oh , god .
please dont let me collapse , please let me live in self integrated peace , without much noise around .
yes , in a certain outrageous second i have risen and done that to her , knowing she had been gods enemy .
she had not believed in him , and tried to pretend a miser , poor girl , that had been foced by the the hard circumstance of her life to lie with more than twenty man , so she had admitted to me .
she hanged herself on me , whom she saw as her savior .
no .
ibetter that i wont know more about that case .
and may god send the guy humik out of israel .
he should better return to u.s. we dont need him here .
he volunteered to one of the armys best units , only for the sake of fulfilling his patriotic stupid pride .
he is just a kid why do i have to think about him at all ?
i hurt my spirit by these meditations .
ill avoid taking a sleeping pill , i fear from that .
i may exaggerate in the dosage .
god , help me .
amen .
chapter 45 in july 1956 began the course for fireteam commanders , and humik was one of its participants .
the men were training again the private tasks and having a course for parachuting , first by slipping down with the omega twisted metal piece , linked to a thick rope stretching a thick pillar and a tree trunk you grab that omega by both hands , push your body forward and find yourself surfing hanging in the air .
most of the guys would say , that having done that training they were ready for the actual parachute training , including a jump from the dakota airtransporters opening to the free air but humik had a bad luck till that expected day would arrive three soldiers , including himself , had become sick with terrible pains in the belly .
humik was lying inside the camps hut , having high temperature .
maybe you have received some lever malady , caused by a rotten falafel said the army physician .
or it was caused by the bad sanitary conditions in the camp , added another doc .
but after two weeks , having swallowed some pills this sickness had passed .
humik was allowed to re join the course , and felt better .
he thought that from then on he would participate again in frequent attacks training and long runnings , but he was mistaken in the beginning of october , while automn light winds had just began , suddenly the army course for fireteam fighters stopped .
its participants were ordered to join the squads of the 3rd battalion of parachuters , commanded by lieutenat colonel aaron davidy .
the soldiers were driving on trucks from the concentration point , somewhere not far from vicious sodom , toward the egyptian border in sinai peninsula .
humik heard soldiers talking about tension in the air the egyptian president general abd el nasser , has recently robbed the britsh and french , owners of suetz canal .
he was boasting that he would soon throw also israel into the sea .
for that aim the russians bestowed him many new tanks , artillery , mig airfighters as well as light arms .
the israelis had become nervy , in a silent panic mode .
their shrewd prime minister , ben gurion , held a speech in parlament , gently telling his people what we only need now is strength and piece !
but he sent the soldiers toward the sinai penninsula desert , to break down most of the new weapons that the egyptians had gathered there , and also to capture teroristic gaza , ruled by the egypt .
on their way toward their target , the soldiers did not discern any military preparedness , except the long caravan of trucks and semi armored vehicles , heading also in another seen path , not very far from them .
on the sides were seen also some bedwin shepherds walking with their herd .
each was holding a long stick in hand , like moses in ancient days .
that symbolized to humik the serenity of the warm land coming in front of them , and as much as he could know it had no end .
the view has become already a boring one , though the commanders were telling , that soon the desert will wake up , and well be attacking .
youll get details about that in due time .
dont be sleepy .
better not to think about the impending attack , he said to himself .
we know how to burst into shielded positions , throw grenades and shoot and creep and run , and catch a sheltered corner when necessary .
if caught in an enemys ambush , we should shoot back from the truck itself , and quickly jump out nice woolen sheep , beige and white colored .
like the hot sand under their paws .
your ears would just hear a soft bleat , that disturbs the deserts silence .
untill the beaurocrates had thought how to bring us such a herd to nehusha seed , i and jacque malka already moved to this course , then to this fight .
in nehusha the agronomist said , that they had been hesistant to provide us sheep because in the first week they would be stolen by arab infiltrators , experts in raising herds .
they raise sheep more than thousand years .
the jews neglected herd raising since they had been exiled from their land .
they had to move every few years from one kingdom to another , only with their skin on their flesh , or with some gold that they had succeeded to hide .
there is one advantage to us here , said jacque malka to humik , that we are being far from the sheeps bad smell .
youve forgotten this area is open to the air .
any smell would immediately evaporate , spread around .
everything was so transparent .
no dust was flying in the air .
only one small cloud , similar to a humans palm , like prophet elija has seen in his days , was surfing above .
afterward elijah went also to sinai desert , begging the lord to kill him he was desperate about the nation of israel .
not like raphaella , who was desparate only about her personal condition .
orperhaps she had also mourned about the condition humane at large ?
can you tell me , jacque interrupted humiks meditation , and he saw his winking left eye , where is the border ?
can you really differentiate here between the israeli negev and the egyptian sinai ?
both are damned same desert .
no , not me , said humik .
maybe there is some bordersotne or fence on the border , but it may have been stolen by bedwin .
the desert has no borders , it exists here just as god had created it .
he had wanted it for bestowing the torah to the people of israel , that afterward became the jews .
the fact is , said jacque , that the last sentence is your invention .
or is it written somewhere , in one of the thousand sacred books ?
look , a donkey and a camel , said another soldier to his friend .
they were the other two speakers out of the twenty , that had shared the trucks load with humik and jacque .
they havent discerned these animals till now , because their colors were mingled with the sand .
if you look now far away behind them , youll see in the horizon high mountains , red and grey blue .
what a pleasure , everything passes by like in a film .
have you paid attention , guys , asked somebody , that we are on the way already more than three hours ?
what a question ?
i have just seen four jeeps and a command car in the distance , entering a ravine wadi .
of course , they are from our intelligence forces .
now you can see them climbing a hill , trying to be hidden .
pay attention were on a flat road , i wonder humik , wake up !
suddenly all the vehicles stopped .
a shout was heard from down the road .
men began to jump out of the truck , holding their guns .
shooting was heard from beyond a low hill .
on the top of it you could discern some shooting positions , surrounded by sacks filled with sand .
they were in a distance of two hundred meters , and beside them were also two or three low constructions , like sheds of guards made of asbestos sheets , to protect soldiers from the heat but not from our lethal shootings .
dust had begun to rise , while explosions of mortars and hand grenades roared in the air , and there was also buzz of light , semi automatic uzi guns and heavier shooting of chechoslovak or fn rifles .
at last the noises were heard as coming from far , like somebody would crack walnuts .
then it came closer again but all of a sudden everything has become quiet .
only a sound of some moans of dying or heavy injured enemys soldiers filled the air , and humik and his comrades were running toward the silenced positions .
they were counting how many dead the egyptians were having , and saw some enemys soldiers who had been taken prisoners by another unit .
the surrendering enemys soldiers were walking with hands over , and soon they were set with covered faces on a command car , having two military policemen on it .
the day had already ended and the sun disappeared .
quite darkness has been falling , and humik and his comrades jumped back on the trucks and were driving on an old path , from time to time having a piece of road on it , and then the sand dominated again .
so , the armoured vehicles and jeeps were leading the re newed column of vehicles , between sands and some rocks that were beginning to appear .
the way was slopping up and then down , and in between again were heard some shots from far away .
humiks truck commander remembered now to give a drink order , as the warmness and dryness of the place may hurt your kidneys .
didnt you know ?
today is not yom kippurs fast , it had passed already .
during the short fight humik was feeling well .
he was creeping toward the enemys positions and firing with his fn semi auotomatic rifle he knew that our mortar and artillery had already broken the enemys line and his soldiers raised their hands and hanged white cloths on their positions .
now , again on the truck , he had time to reflect something about his mother .
he cheated her twice , writing to her that he was still in the village seed .
very well that shes illusioned , because the fight has only begun .
more attacks would take place deep in sinai desert , and we are already in a war .
the first war since the states independence .
as a small boy , humik had heard about a second cycle of war that would break with the arabs .
now it has become real the war that everybody had delayed in his mind the short vehicles column passed another enemys position on the left it had been captured by another unit .
the trucks were like slipping to a narrow path that has been shelled , and one truck of another squad had been damaged , its back wheel hanging over a crevice .
humiks truck should take a dangerous bypass , and therefore the soldiers were jumping from behind and pusing it forward , then climbing it again .
soon we will become acrobats with diploma said jacque malka , dont worry .
then the second world war armored half trucks it was one the armys cheapest acquirement till that time were seen , riding in parallel to the light trucks path .
we and the others are leading to a bedwin village , said humiks truck commander , it is a strategic point .
they call it aatemed .
there will be waiting for us a heavier task than before .
suddenly humik felt that his body was trembling like a leaf , and his ears were blown by an unexpected artillery shelling .
he jumped from the truck , like his comrades , crept three steps and lied on the cool sand .
he gazed back to the truck and saw that most of his comrades were under it , creeping to the margins of the bad road , like he had just done .
their team commander was bending to the ground , waving his hands , indicating them to follow him , crawl and shortly run and crawl again .
humik heard the wireman was telling a message to a far section commander , and then they were all attacking a yellow beige vehicle in front of them .
a smell of burnt gasoline was on the air now , as it suddenly exploded with a red fire .
two coaled men were trying to jump out of it , screaming and terrified , but fell on the sand their life ending with the smoke , which was stinking the air dreadfully .
the lucky attckers had not approached that disastrous hell , so they avoided being hurt from the gasolins containers explosion .
humik looked at his commander , who signaled his men that they can return to their truck but in fact its tires had been shot by the enmys fire .
so , after a while humik and his comrades had to join soldiers from another truck .
the place on its load became dense , but they continued driving in the dark night , the dumb stars looking at them and winking cruelly .
they hoped that the enemy wont shoot them from beyond a hill on the right .
or is it only a shadow of a hill ?
a soldier holding an m.g .
was shooting back .
he opened fire from the truck , without getting any order for that .
then he was rebuked by the commander .
while still moving in the darkness , some wanted to sleep , but their commander was illuminating their faces with a small electric torch the trucks sides were covered by khaki rough canvas and while he would discern sleepy eyes , he would be shaking the tiresome ones with shouts .
its the road climbing from a temed to a place called e nahel .
all of us should be on alert , dyou hear me ?
suddenly there was a terrible noise in the air .
humik looked at the sky and saw two mig egyptian airfigthers rising in a roar from the western horizon , flying low and in a horrible speed they were already above the vehicles , deadly shooting everything from their murderous machine guns 20mm .
then they were lifting their heavy bodies in a roar to the sky .
somebody had tried to shoot at their direction , but they were like disregarding it .
jump , jump to the sand !
shouted the truck commander , and humik and his frightened comrades had done as ordered .
the monster metal birds were making a circle on the air , and soon returning to attack their green yellow wings were like those of horrible vultures .
bombs blasts and fire and smoke were deafening the ears and blinding the eyes and erasing the memory .
the terrible airfighters had already gone while some rescued soldier was heard to be calling somebody on the communication network , there had been three or four guys lying on their back or side and moaning .
humiks heart was now only trembling within itself , and his mind was almost out of its place .
he had no possibility to listen or describe or mention or dream or meditate or calculate .
if before he still had heard his body striking the sandy road , while he threw himself from the truck now he was a heap of dust in the desert .
but he soon was surrounded by his comrades , who saw the red liquid on his chest .
that blood , normally pouring life into the limbs was now flowing out .
they saw also his steel helmet , that was still on his head but turned aside , and his rifle that was beside him .
the blood was covering his chest , staining his shirt , and the stain was still growing .
one of the soldiers was tearing the blooded shirt , saying its nahumik , and soon found the wounds hole .
he put his personal bandage on the bleeding place , and was pressuring on it .
he saw the place is still bleeding , so he wrapped also his friends bandage on it .
he found a lighter injury on his leg , and wrapprd it also .
soon humik was loaded on a stretcher , and a command car vehicle , that had been ready for gathering our injured soldiers , had taken him and two other wounded to eilat .
from there they were taken by flight to tel hashomer hospital , near tel aviv .
humik did not know that the war must continue , nor that some of his comrades , having been luckily rescued the airbombs attack , continued to move on toward the mitleh passage in sinai .
there a terrible fight had taken place .
jacque malka was bleeding there to death , and two other comrades of humik also lost their lives .
a friend of us , that had been there too , had told us how they were fighting , picking out the egyptian defenders of the strategic passage , who were hiding in their caves deep in the hills .
we stabbed some by our rifles bayonets like mice in their holes .
but the teller himself , woe to us , had drawned in the sea , seven years later .
it was near the beach of tel aviv , while going to swim in a summer night with two guys and three of their girl friends .
humik was more lucky .
in the first a week he felt a terrible weakness , though he was injected one or two portions of blood .
when he was awakened from his unconsciousness , he was condoled by a young physician , whose name was menahem the name nahumik , means the condoled one , the name menahem means the condoling one !
he showed nahumik the bombs particle , that had been ejected from his chest its location was critical , he told humik , had it hit one more centimetre closer to your vein , you would have lost your life .
thanks for telling me , whispered humik .
his mind returned to its meditations , and he said to himself blessed be god or whoever there .
he thought that maybe the gates guard that had been standing there beside him was rabbi aaron hittin , who struggled with the angel knife holder , and won .
or it maybe that he , humik himself , was the wrestler with the bad angel in his lust for life he succeeded to move the knife a little , to a distance of more than a fingers width from the vein and so prevent the owner of the bad thing from hitting him finally .
humik did not know how semadar had discovered where he was hospitalized .
she arrived one morning , followed by naitty , to visit him .
she simply said , that she had heard about soldiers of parachuters from the pioneering youth , who had been injured .
before that she had not received any army annoucement about humik , though her name was mentioned in his military file , as one who should be contacted in case of emergency .
she had begun to phone to hospitals and inquire about a wounded soldier having a surname kaplansky .
very soon she came to know where humik was lying wounded .
naitty was viewing humik in a dumb worship and pitiful look , like semadar herself .
humik was not talking a lot , as he was still weak .
semadars visit was not greeted by him .
he only asked in a whisper if she had talked to his mom , god forbid .
he himself , while being mobilized , gave only semadars address as close relatives address .
semadar answered that ramona had called through ruth caf , and was told that humik was all right and nothing to worry about , thats all .
humik burst in a very short weep , and told himsel for weeping you have to have power , which i lack now .
so he calmed down .
all my life , he was thinking then , i wanted to be with the warriors if there happens a second war with our enemies .
i have prepared myself to defend my people , and have taken part in the fight .
i know i will return to service , i must do that if mom hears about my injury , she would justify hers and solomons attitude to my adventure of joinig the army , which they had so antagonized .
but i will not surrender to hand myself to them .
i wont go back to america yes , im still lying here , getting painkillers analgetics , but no more in life danger .
i have survived , i shall live .
i am young and strong .
semadar handed humik a present .
it was a sweet bitter chocolate pack .
it symbolizes you , humik , smiled semadar , you and your life .
really naitty is the owner of the idea that well bring it .
he has received the sole right of distributing around the country all chocolates and sweets of ce de factory of ramat gan .
it is a well known chocolate .
try a piece , you can taste it .
humik tasted it and gave them also some pieces , and all said it was good .
he gazed at nathan with sympathy , but when the couple has lsft he rebuked himself about how easy he could also be flattered .
let me remember , said humik to himself , what vision i have seen in my imagination .
it was still while i had been lying in weak consciousness , on the first days after the injury shock there were mad dark horses running out and bolting , followed by brown hounds .
they were searching for a yellow horned monster , on which its forhead the letter h was written .
was it a symbol for humik or for heaven or for hope ?
then came people that i dont know and never have seen , joining elkao .
he was walking in a long corridors of unaccomplished building , its stairs still missing , and having only slope cement passages without a balustrade , leading from the ground floor to the upper ones .
i was slipping on that unfinished staircase , like surfing there , but suddely were the airfighters haunting from above , arriving in couples , and i was already in a sandstorm , that sawed my cheeks and shut my ears and blinded my eyes , and they were shooting at me a heavy rain of rifleballs .
i was running away from them , falling and rising and jolting and creeping , and at last fell prostrate on the sandy open field , that had no plant on it .
i am satisfied that im alive , he waked himself up .
i am sure that i would not forget all that for years and years to come .
raphaella had fallen , but not in such a war .
i should have had some pen to write all these meditations and illustratory visions .
i have to search a descerning and wise person .
like biblical joseph , who knew to decode the dreams .
why had they appeared to me all that ?
if i see a psychiatrist , like my father in law would visit from time to time , ill dismiss him .
solomons psycho consultant could not diconnect him from his lust for producing his movie .
he is still devoting his time to it , having left mom alone in the photo store most of the time .
she works very hard , while solomon is deadly mad , so she had told me in our last meeting .
now she is surely sending letters still to nehusha .
who knows the guys there may return the mail to the sender , what will make her more anxious about me .
so , ill soon discover to her that i had left the seed .
ill write to her , that she has to send everything only to semadars address .
not to any armys box office his recovery was going fine , so told him the doctors .
they soon sent him to a recovery hostel , in which he was staying for about ten days .
he was told by the physicians , that his health clause now was limiting his movenents .
so , humik was not fit any more for the parachuters troops .
but in the high command in tel aviv there was found a job for him as one who was talking and writing well in american english .
semadar visited him again in the recovery hostel .
in that second visit naitty didnt join her .
what humik had told her then , had caused her a headache .
the fellow has sacrificed himself for the defence of his nation , so his honest and direct words should be considered thoroughly .
he told her his opinion , that she had to discontact from nathan .
her hesitations show she was not thinking deeply enough about their common future .
naitty can not and will not ever understand her deep cultural attraction to music .
his love is enthusiastic , but it is like a hunter who enjoys the trap he had digged to his victim these words exactly were used by humik .
she was very angry to hear that , but had felt she must not cause him to stop their friendship .
even without humiks words , she had paid attention to what her friends and her boss erga told her about the american guy .
a difference of ten years and now , that she is only twenty one , seemed to be a risk .
or she wants to try , and do like others , that after a short marriage period of one or two years get into a divorce process they wont make a big deal about that..
but i guess , that you will behave like the average woman , who marries , so told her a well known male singer , youll have children very soon , and theyll make you forget all other matters .
semadar knew that naitty was a man demanding attention and obedience to whatever he would be saying .
he had some strange , ambigious , religious mysterious uterrances .
but he had agreed that she would continue singing .
he will stand on guard , that no young guy will approach me , so she told herself , even to ask for an autograph but i know , that naitty worships my singing , and thats very important he looks at it as a gift from god .
so he isnt just an extreme religious fanatic this i must say in his favor , beside other good things .
first of all he would have a real care for his family , if he marries me and i semadar , know what misery is .
in my childhood we were frequently hungry , myself and my sisters .
yes , we have remained without a mother , and our father had decided to emigrate to israel with most of the jews from tunis .
i remember that as a teenager i had felt bad about my talent , as well as about my whole personality , especially as an artist .
till my nice singing was recognized as very well by erga , who had been then in the army center commands band .
she liked two of my sabath songs and took me under her shelter but now erga is telling me bad things about nathan , as she fears he would get me out of the music , out of the stage but on the other hand erga herself told me nowadays the difference in ages is not critical .
she knows young male artists with older sweathearts as erga herself is and also opposite kinds of relationships my sister hedwa is lucky not having such trouble of meditating and facing quite unsolveable problems .
she will marry effy , and thats final .
i should do like her , semadar decided at that moment .
a moan emerged from her throat , because it was hard for her to bear in her heart the complex situation .
but i believe in the god of israel , dont i ?
hedwa wrote me a note of a prayer , that i will say every day or by night , before going to sleep hear oisrael , our god is our lord , our god is the one .
i am the small , the sinful , the humiliated .
i , your maidservant , turn to you the unending , the unmistakeable , the plentyful , the terrible , the superior of all , the creator of tones and songs and all kinds of musics , harmonies and disharmonies please show me my way .
please direct me and guide me and let me have a heart that will live in peace with my mind !
naitty has an advantage over any youth that ill meet , being a stable and matured man .
when ive told him that a guy like humik started to study something about advrtisement and artists management he was mocking at young people like him .
yes , in america they teach management and promotion and everything you like .
but being educated is nothing if you dont have a character .
but though i know that america is full of adulterers and criminals and brothel managers and millions of people that entertainment is almost the second thing they love after sex making , instead loving god and his religion though i could have succeeded in that huge country of midgets in towers as one of our prophets had said ive thrown america behind my back !
i came here , to gods and to our holy land .
you can appreciate me as well as you appreciate humik , who had volunteered to the army , and so on .
am not i right ?
chapter 46 semadar was again in her room with naitty .
his whole figure , with the manly beard and capshaded hat , seemd to her sometimes even caricaturistic or unpleasant..
but she had known that his desirous kisses were of a true loving heart , without any pretention , like you can meet in an enthusiasm of a youth who is burning only to fuck you..
he is a very serious personality , she had said that to herself many times .
so , what if she had been flattered , receiving his presents ?
she had known , quite obscurely , this might connect her to him more tightly , and then she had still hesitated .
she has even gone with her sister , hedwa , to a goldsmith in allenby street , and he had valued the golden bracelet to be three thousands american dollars , and add to it the diamond ring , and afterwards a necklace and dresses .
he is a well trained vempire , laughed hedwa , but he is such a nice gentleman and considerate man .
i would take him for a husband .
effy is also good , but not wealthy and smart as naitty .
so , each one of us will have his own luck .
marry him , semadar .
and in the coming week naitty brought the most inventive idea that semadar had ever heard about he will hire a symphonic orchestra , of ten players strings and trumpets and flute and drums and a piano , that will fit semdars chosen songs and all on his account .
she will have that show in the ohel shem hall or in another .
an orchestra accompaniment will make a real success , and promote semadars fame .
oh , i need erga for producing that show , she said .
okey , take her .
i will be your subproducer , he said .
youll see .
im marketing food .
entertainment is as important to many people .
as the romans had said bread and entertainment you need to sign contracts with the orchestra , and so on .
ive taken a lawyer for that .
said naitty .
you are a sophisticated fan of mine , she burst in tears and fell in his arms , her eyes full of excitement .
i have a a very great patience to you , have you discerned that ?
we know each otheralready more than three months .
i had visited more than ten shows of the singingirls , havent i ?
for looking at and listening to you , semadary .
i saw , and understood , but i was delaying the development of the negative of the photo , you can say .
but now everything will be arranged , he said , and had paid attention to her silence .
she pressed her head between her palms , her eyes still wet .
he carressed her hair with his right hand .
i wont ask you about what you are thinking , he said in hebrew , i can understand myself .
not everything i understand about other people .
but if i can get to the root of a matter , its to me rightful and stable and right and existing and straight and faithful and loved and liked and favorable and enjoyable and amazing and enormous and repaired and acceptable and good and fine where have you taken these words from ?
from the morning prayer , of course , he said .
i was stupid to think , she said , that only i myself know this prayer by heart .
unlike me my sister hedwa is used to forget its words very easily .
she smiled .
naitty held her hands in his , and she was looking deep into his eyes , still excited .
i think you are an angel , nathan .
or a messenger of god .
fine .
but you know , that this world is lacking real angels .
well , hear me you have once thought about humik , that he was such an angel .
if i revealed to you all what i know about that guy , in addition to what y o u know now you would understand , that i am not just a delegate !
but i simply hate talking with a bad tongue .
again the couple looked at each other and kissed longly .
she was still guessing what he would tell her , a lie or a simple unjust rumor about the sympathized guy .
you give me a vow , in the name of god , that you wont tell it .
i swear in god , and for god .
she bursted .
i dont know too much , but to let you be excited and in order not to embarrass you too much , because i know such a psychotic situation .
hold me tight , okey ?
dont stretch my nerves too much , she said .
jigolo is not a big deal , comparing to what he was doing , this humik shmumik shmock he was in the peepshow cellar , havent you heard about such a building in manhatten ?
i havent .
it is a peculiar brothel .
they have rooms there , and organizing a march of naked whores and so on .
but humik was fucking there a girl , so that sex starving men would peep on them through a small hole in the wall .
i dont want to speak obscenities .
but he would do with her everything , with his young beautiful girl .
in all possible poses and fucking manners .
understand ?
that means that humik she mumbled , was not only with old women , as ive thought ?
you still dont believe in what ive just said .
not in hundred percents , im sure .
i see it on your face .
because otherwise you should have stood here and shouted to the sky , outrageous at that liar , pretender , damned guy .
oy vey to my years and my life she saw that naitty himself was upset , and his eyes were moving from one side to the other in such a pursuit of justice to be made as she told herself .
i am shocked , she said .
oh , how had i been so innocent , so blind to believe in him .
id really suspected something , that the story with old women came out of his financial difficulty , and you also know what is that but such a pretender , oohhh !
effy would come soon .
you talk to him also .
he worked in that place as a guard for some time .
he had met humik there .
and you think that humik was in love with her with the tramp ?
i think yes .
she , in touching his skin , you know , it seems she had caused him a big enjoyment , a tremendous bliss , amazing orgasms so they call it in sex books .
men were telling effy , that only from hearing her orgastic voices , they were ejaculating .
excuse me for being so direct humik became mad about her .
you mean , she was a top whore , for the upper class , and so on ?
while semadar said that she leaned on naitty and was kissing him , like she had wanted to be that top whore and kissed him fervently for his discovery .
maybe she had fallen in love with him , said naitty , he is more handsome than me , for example .
in his baby face , and his sweet smile and sometimes bitter sayings .
all that attract women , i know .
he had fascinated many woman , you are not familiar with all that .
and i have nothing against him , believe me .
but i will not deny facts that i had known there .
i thought he was a lost guy and pitied him .
and still now , i see he was a great sinner , but not a gangster or something like that .
and the fact that he volunteered to the army and was wounded for our country again you give him a credit , said naitty .
yes , i find for him some credit points .
its so hard for me to think that he is a complete lier and obscene and dirty .
i hope that you also would forgive him for all what you have told me .
no , said naitty , and she was almost shocked .
her eyes became bigger than usual .
maybe were talking about capital crimes , regarding his escape from america .
what ?
what do you mean by that ?
yes .
he said something about a corpse thrown to the water , remember ?
i thought it was only a metaphor , for something negligent that he wont like to waste time talking about .
something that had passed away .
maybe he himself has thrown no , i just presume .
they said in new york , that his girl had disappeared .
she isnt there .
a friend of mine wrote me , that afterward she was found dead thats it .
please continue telling me , semadar said .
i wont like to bring you a bad mood , my sweetheart some six months have passed since that event .
the policemen there had found out everything , im sure .
that is not our matter .
okey ?
we should continue our constructive life , semadar .
and you have to rejoice , i say .
she was weeping a little bit but restrained herself .
she said she did not know why it had become so sentimental , a case that was not my business at all , and he agreed with her .
i really had not intended to cause a break in your soul , semadar , he said .
to me experience and age have given me the possibility to analyse many things , and look deeply into events .
i know how things are becoming to be interwovn .
i am not a jumper like humik , or teenagers like him from hole to hole , from girl to girl .
i am serious , maybe an earnest guy , as you know me .
so , im sorry that i have caused you some disillusion , semadar .
now promise me that in the film guys and dolls with marlon brando , you will get better .
i have prepared the ticketsd already you see ?
youre laughing .
your mood has become better in a second .
chapter 47 naitty heard about his uncles death in new yourk .
effys father had died at home , from the parkinson disease .
now effy was planning to fly to u.s. to condole his mother and visit his fathers grave .
he could not reach the funeral his papa had been very religious and his community buried the dead even in midnight , at the same day of death .
the eyes of both effy and naitty were wet with true tears .
what can a man do against the lords curse , because of adams sin ?
i have prepared a closed envelope with a letter , said naitty suddenly , please find a post box there , and send it for me .
the stamps for outside mail are very costly here , and a letter might be on its way a month or more .
to whom do you write ?
asked effy .
read the address on the envelope , said naitty .
brooklyn police ? !
are you mad , naitty ?
oy vey , gott in himmel god in sky , in yiddish .
you want to be involved in something bad ?
please dont read the letter inside it .
you guess about what i am writing .
but rely on me , that all will turn to be on the best side i simply inform them , that many guys had known that she was having gangsters friends .
before and after i had known her .
naitty , they might reach you .
had your uncle , my papa , been alive he would tell you like me dont chat and dont tell them anything .
you are mad , naitty .
take a psychiatrist today .
what have you thought ?
laughed naitty , that im writing here my true name ?
it an anonymous letter , or ill sign adam firstetsky .
for what purpose , man ?
they have already forgotten about that case .
you want to raise a skeleton from the grave ?
meshugea .
maybe they have caught or will catch somebody .
i just want to point out on a few guys , that even you had not recognized , while you were standing by there , as a guard .
she had told me and gave me some names , of friends and lovers .
she was proud of them .
high ranked actors from broadway , and even one having an ageny in wall street .
all bachelors , very serious they were , so she had said .
but at last the relationship ended in one way or another , she said this brings me now to think and feel like it was really better for her to die than be alive .
you have a sick memory for trivialities , said effy .
maybe it is also better for your father to be now in paradise .
better than here , among the suffering humankind .
dont be a philosopher on my account now , naitty !
if you want to send a letter , do it from here .
not by me , i wont be your hangman or shooter .
to send it from here it isnt reasonable .
the stamp of israel would make them search who and why , and so on .
so , dont send anything , dear cousin .
ive told you that before .
let me fly from here in piece , and return safely to israel .
i will return within ten days .
a curse upon you if you are late .
you are my best assistant , and we succeed very much in our way .
so , take a rest and forget about this letter , said effy .
well , give it back .
naitty snatched the envelope from effy .
the peepshow cellar manager was also a suspect , i heard , said naitty .
but not our humik .
i have clarified that with a friend , who reads forverts the ny yiddish newspaper .
well , a lot of kisses to your mother , who i love so much , and owe her much for what she had done for me .
in fact , you travel , while you have to sit seven days of mourning here .
okey , god is forgiving a lot .
i will say kadish here , in israel thanks a lot , said effy .
and , by the way you have to know that i am arranged with semadar , not only engaged to her .
we will make two weddings together , you with hedwa and i with her sister .
i will finance all that.you can tell all that to your mother .
thats our condolence !
chapter 48 what happened to humik afterward we dont know .
he was assimilated in the population of the country , like some millions of israelis , who immigrated to the jewish historical land , driven by the enormous waves of jews reaching their homeland .
a riddle impetus from which humik sufferd , has grown along the axis of time within many jews , religious as well as atheists , zionists as well as such who declare themselves post zionists , or even anti zionists .
only the master of history can explain ex post such a physical and spiritual movement of people in the history of mankind .
only he or he would know what will come out of it at the end .
nowadays humik may be angry at or ashamed of his people or their leaders .
he may be irritated by the televised or interneted top of vulcano or center of jungle , in which he and his fellow citizens are living .
but i know that he would still stay in israel , with all his offspring and growing family .
he would say what a normal israeli or a lunatic jew had said for thousands of years notwithstanding everything , survive .
flight neil hetzner smashwords edition copyright 2010 neil hetzner license notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this ebook with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then you should return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
in flight i have tried to imgine how technology , culture and language as well as the geography of the world will have changed by the end of this century .
yet , while i can only guess at how the physical world will be different , i can be sure the emotional world of humans will remain the same .
prologue whats pastisnt .
the road south from muyinga , weaving through the mountains of burundi in east africa like a mud and gravel stream , was more suited for intrepid goats than the battered truclet negotiating its challenges , but nora elieson had driven that twisting , never repaired , vertiginous track so often she could keep most of her mind free to think about guinea fowl .
a half century before , in another , far different life , the octogenarian had been very well regarded and very well paid for her thinking , especially the kind of thinking that could solve a problem by leaping over it .
now , once again , from that place of creation that had always been a mystery to her , had come a thought for how to increase the guinea fowl harvest in the villages she had just visited .
to keep the thought coming , one deeply tanned hand left the steering wheel and began tugging at the snarl of short gray hair that covered her head .
although she was excited , the fugitive scientist knew she must be careful not to be too clever .
being too clever had cost her that previous privileged life .
it was not cleverness , but a tempered love that had given nora elieson her current life .
hanging around a coffee urn at a small new africa conference , nora had met beryl langue .
langue was a global nations agronomist who had spent twenty years in fifth world africa improving sorghum harvests by altering both the genetics of the plant and the agricultural techniques and habits of those who grew it .
that gn work had had small infrequent rewards .
it was not until after the age of sixty , when langue met nora and they married , that both received rewards greater than their ages and attitudes had allowed them to imagine .
at his new wifes insistence , beryl langue had left the gn .
nora elieson had money and an idea for mutating guinea fowl so that a second , third , and fourth wing pair would regenerate after harvesting .
that idea took almost ten years to become reality .
progress in science , or anything for that matter , in africa was a dispiriting slog however when success finally came , the couple felt the work and wait , and the inroads it had made on noras wealth , had been well worth it .
to nora eliesons way of thinking , the work with the wings of a nearly brainless bird was more important than the paradigm altering discoveries she had made so many years before .
three years after the breeder stock had been distributed throughout the impoverished villages that clung to life along the steep sides of the rift , average daily protein consumption had more than doubled .
long boned , thin muscled children stumbling along the red mud roads had become a less frequent sight .
being able to harvest two over sized wings every ten weeks meant that most villagers no longer needed to slaughter their birds for meat .
harvesting the birds wings , instead of slaughtering them , led to families having bigger flocks .
since guinea fowl need little human assistance to thrive , families were able to increase their protein calories at very little expense in either time or energy .
an unintended , but welcome , extremely welcome , side effect was that the larger flocks were driving down the insect population upon which they fed .
since many of those insects were vectors for some of africas most virulent diseases , the villagers mortality rate , especially among infants , was dropping .
nora thought that decreasing infant mortality was more important than increasing life expectancy , something about which she knew a great deal .
as she slung the toymotos steering wheel from side to side to avoid washouts and slurries left by the rains , and compensate for its worn out struts , nora reluctantly considered just how much longer the work she and beryl were doing could stay in the shadows .
after one hundred years of money and manpower from the developed countries had been more than matched by a century of corruption , new disease strains , and tribal and national wars , the rest of the world had looked elsewhere than africa to ease its conscience and do its good .
poor , benighted africa had become even poorer , more benighted , forgotten africa .
it was the latter , the forgotten aspect , which first had attracted nora elieson .
she had needed a place to go to ground .
now , she sometimes worried that the benefits that she had helped bring to the forgotten villagers in the forgotten mountains in forgotten burundi in forgotten east africa would cause someone somewhere , the wrong someone , to remember .
the eighty nine year old woman with the impatient eyes was nursing the dinged and dusty toymoto through a series of switchbacks forty kilometers north of gitega when an incongruous sound of civilization intruded .
the pulsing of the blades echoing against the steep rocky sides made it sound like a swarm of rotos , rather than just one , was flying up the valley .
the sound , a low , slow thump , like clapping underwater , was not totally unheard in africa .
with little infrastructure , but with plenty of weapons and even more hate , rotos were the vehicle of choice for getting those illogical few , who valued their lives but still came to africa , across her great distances .
re feathering .
that was the idea nora was running through her aging but ample circuitry .
burundi had been wet and hot for ages , but when the world began to warm , it had become even hotter and wetter .
that change in meteorological conditions had caused certain species of flora and fauna to thrive and others to wither .
guineas could tolerate a great deal of heat , but it took a lot of calories to do so .
re feathering could lead to both better insulation and heat dissipation .
if the feathers .
the thick foliage on the other side of the toymotos bug spattered windshield first began to sway and then to bow up and down in a way that reminded nora of dancers at a harvest ceremony .
the thump of the roto , like the beat of a ceremonial drum , quickened and grew louder , as it dropped down toward the earth .
rather than just noticing that a roto was overhead , nora , who had lived much longer than some wished , began to pay close attention to it .
she slowed down so that she could divert some of her concentration from the winding , muck wrecked road to what was going on above the thick canopy that was concealing her .
the machine darted , hovered , darted and hovered in a way that reminded nora of a humming bird before a flowering trumpet vine .
having no rational reason to think that she was in danger , but having no reason to dismiss that she felt that way , nora turned off the truclets motor and coasted to a stop under the green canopy .
the machine above quieted as if it were listening before it zigged , jigged , zagged and sped off north , back tracking up the serpentine valley through which nora had just come .
even after dismissing all of the adrenaline coursing through her ropy body as mis applied biochemistry , the old woman waited another ten minutes more before starting on her way .
she told herself that when she got closer to gitega she would try to see if there was enough civilization in burundis latest capital to bounce a call to a former capital , bujumbura , to ensure that beryl and their daughter , prissi , were alright .
less than an hour later , nora made the call and she found that everything at home was fine except that , after her weeks absence , her husband and only child daughter greatly missed her .
they missed nora even more that afternoon when she didnt arrive when she should have .
all through the night as their patience grew thin and their panic grew deep , they missed her even more .
the next day they missed her twice more as they drove up and down the road north of gitega , but on the third time , along with two retired muzungo mercenaries , they found the truclet and those remnants of nora elieson that the jungle hadnt harvested .
the truclet had careened off the road in an implausible place .
nora elieson had come to her end crossing over a ridge that offered a relatively dry smooth surface as well as a tremendous view to the north of spiky mountains burdened in green , like the mossy back of an alligator .
to the west one could see the deep shadowy rift from which hominids first decided to leave their trees .
to the south was the badboard stew of slums and worse slums , those canted shanty boxes which had replaced the hominids trees .
just part of the splendor of gitega , burundis newest capital .
further to the south , no larger than silver threads , one could see , piecemeal , if enough tears could be blinked away , the twisting , snaky waters of the ruvyironza , source of the nile .
when the police finally arrived , there was less investigating than philosophizing as the two detectives , all wrinkled khaki and sweat smeared sunglasses , wondered whether it was the distraction of from whence we came or of where we go that pulled nora eliesons eyes from the road at the wrong time .
beryl langue , remembering the phone call and noticing the clean swept circle in what should have been a dusty road , thought that the accident might have been something else .
prissi langue , the couples twelve year old daughter , despite being warned to stay in the jeep , had been compelled to look when her mothers body was carried back up the gash made by the toymotos plunge .
she was stunned by what the jungle had done to her mother .
despite being frightened and confused , beryl langue , immediately upon his return to bujumbura with his devastated daughter , took action .
the usually unassuming man called in favors and insisted upon irregularities .
after a hurried funeral , more hurried packing , and within seventy two hours of her death , the remainder of nora eliesons family was on a boat on lake tanganyika crossing from burundi to congo .
when beryl langue looked back , the battered buildings of bujumbura glinted in sunlight .
when he looked ahead , mist roiled from the lake .
beryl langue thought that captured things perfectly .
despite what the police report and death certificate said , beryl langues thinking atop the ridge was correct .
ironically , the aged passenger in the roto who caused nora eliesons death , himself a man of great intelligence and greater patience , lost what he , too , valued most .
it was those two losses , high above the turbid life and death of africa , a continent where a half bowl of millet could catalyze friend to foe , which gave birth to the troubles would so threaten prissi langue three years later .
chapter one a teacher is the best experience prissi langue , a fifteen year old second year dutton school student , came stomping up the stairs from the carver common room .
prissi was stoking a hissy fit and enjoying every molecule of the volatile chemistry jumping within her body .
after a late thursday night marathon studying for a test in chinese and finishing a problem set for fi sci ii , she had bunked breakfast to sleep late .
when she woke , she was ravenous as only a fifteen year old girl can be .
there was nothing left in her snack cache but empty bags and boxes containing pitiful corners of salty crumbs or sugary dust .
it didnt take a genius to know that her roomie , nasty nancy sloan , had been on a pillage again .
to silence the animal growling in her stomach , prissi had run downstairs to the common room to get a tofusicle from the venderator , but when she had stepped on the biometric pad in front of that glowing tabernacle to teener desire , it had beeped twice .
a single beep was a warning .
two beeps meant that the machine thought that she was too fat .
two beeps meant the machine , regardless of how much money was inserted as a bribe , wouldnt open the little tabernacle doors behind which a host of secular treasures could be seen .
the dutton school took care , too much care in the minds of most of its charges , that their young bodies be as carefully nurtured as their immature minds .
since prissi knew she wasnt close to being overweight , the obvious answer to the double beep was that some starving chunk , probably nasty nancy , had jammed the machineagain .
the fuming prissi , gray green eyes sparking , bow lipped mouth spitting noises like an ancient steam radiator , was back upstairs and half way down the hall when she heard the scuffling steps of someone in drylons coming her way .
she peered down the dark narrow corridor , but the mid morning sunlight wriggling through the narrow clerestory window at the end of the second floor hall made it impossible to see who was approaching .
since prissi was far too tired to win and far too competitive to lose an early session of dorm hall repartee , the half synapsed girl took three quick steps and disappeared into the third floor communal bathroom .
prissi leaned against the raddled bathroom door and took a deep breath .
her calm detachment lasted for less than a second .
the powerful magnet of the three meter long mirror above the sinks tugged at her eyes .
since the greenish bio phosphor lights would have made a beauty queen look like something that belonged in an aquarium , prissi resisted looking .
her teener ego had plenty of other battles to fight , but the mirror , evil truth teller , pulled , promised , wheedled and won .
leaning over the vanity counter top , which held three porcelain sinks , prissi tucked her mouse and mange hair behind her ears so she wouldnt miss any of her faults and imperfections .
the ears themselves were faultythe lobes werent detached and there were three small moles , looking like an ellipsis on the rim of the left ear .
the eyesyesthe eyesmaybe her best featurebut not today .
those usually laser bright , almond shaped windows on her soul were dull and the skin below them was brownish gray , likelikea bats armpit .
the noseohmigodohmigodthe nose .
the size of a national monument , the shape of a soggy popoverohmigodand fertile ground forforohmigodexcrescences .
it took prissi a moment to separate the water spots and other less identifiable specks on the silvered glass from thethings on her nose .
she dipped her face down , then closer , then away .
she continued to inspect the days crop of horrorescentthings until the raspy sound of the drylons and the whisper of pinions along the wall faded to silence .
i hate me .
i hate school .
freeieekin school .
as soon as she had the thought , prissi felt remorse because she loved dutton .
she really did , but there were days , and this certainly was going to be one , where she could not deal with all of its rules , rules contained in a two hundred page catechism of whats , whens , dos , donts , and hows twenty plus pages on how many gigs were to be awarded for unruly hair , toe peepage , trans fat consumption , bigotry , littlery , faddism , fatism , sexism , anti gaiety .
a chapter on the ins and outs of honor .
a huge section on dorm and dining room demeanor .
a chapter on serviceservice to ones roomie , ones floor , ones dorm , ones teams , to the little village down the hill , to connecticut , noramica and the world beyond .
a rule for everything , but not a dambdumb peep about walkers and wingers .
the biggest difference in schoolbigger than race , wealth , and , in prissis opinion , gender and the administration avoided it .
from what prissi could gather , in the good old days , a million years or so ago , nearly everyone at any elite prep school would have been a winger .
now , almost fifteen percent of her classmates were walkers .
she herself had a half dozen older friends who didnt fly .
two of those hadnt fledged because they came from homes where the money for the mutation was not available .
mary ung hadnt muted for religious reasons .
frank beese hadnt been able to get a permit to mute because of his obesity , according to frank a problem that had killed his grandparents and was likely soon to do the same with his parents .
of prissis walker friends , the most striking one was her nqb , not quite boyfriend , joe fflowers .
joe didnt want to fly because he wanted to keep playing hockey .
at least , thats what joe said , and said , and said , but prissi was sure that a big part of his refusal was just teener defiance because joe fflowers was the grandson of joshua fflowers , the man who had invented fledging .
prissi herself , who only had had her wings for ten months , still was obsessed with what those wings could do .
when prissi fledged , just before her fifteenth birthday , she was 1.6 meters tall and weighed 46 kilograms .
as a result of her small size and proportionate weight , she was qualified to choose from a wide choice of wing shapes .
with fledging , the general rule was that the larger the subject , the fewer the choices .
after discussions with her father , which , if she were truthful , were more arguments than discussions , prissi wheedled lt wings with a red and silver rippled feather pattern .
least tern wings , with their delta shape and small surface area , had been designed for quick turns and great speed however , there were trade offs .
lts were much less effective for soaring or long flights .
although they took extra energy to fly and were ineffective for long distances , prissi loved her lts because they let her do acrobatics and stunt flying most other wingers couldnt come close to duplicating .
another benefit of the stubby delta design was that they took so much energy they pretty much self regulated body weight .
prissi thought that an lt teener winger would have to be pretty lovelorn , heartbroken or acnefied to get too fat to fly .
prissi langue loved flying .
for her , it was the ultimate freedom .
when she was in the air , two hundred page rulebooks , intractable math problems , the slights and slurs of classmates and the sadness that clung like cobwebs from her mothers death in africa three years before stayed on the ground .
many of prissis friends were ambivalent about flying .
they liked their wings because people like them , privileged people , were supposed to like their wings .
they liked the freedom flying brought , but they feared the danger .
more than eighty thousand noramican teenerz died each year from crashes .
but , for prissi , being in the air brought nothing other than a great sense of well being .
from growing up in africa , where two and four legged dangers existed everywhere , the girl had a well developed sense of what was safe .
her mothers death only had confirmed what she already knewthe earth was a dangerous place to be alive and an easy place to die .
yet , when prissi first began to fly , even while she wobbled her wings and bobbled her landings , one of the biggest and most unexpected benefits of being in the air was how safe she felt .
the higher she went , the safer she felt .
at two hundred meters , looking at the insignificant details far below , prissi felt as secure as when she and her mother had snuggled in a string hammock on those sloggy , slow , bujumburan mornings .
mornings where sunlight and mist coming off lake tanganyika swirled around one another in a slow dance .
misty mornings .
missed mornings .
prissi shoved her face closer to the mirror to shove away her thoughts .
what a minefield .
she loved science , idolized scientists , but how was it be that they could grow wings on kids and regenerate organs , but couldnt do a freeieekin thing about pimples .
sciencekey to the mysteries of the universe .
no , not , quite yet .
prissi tipped her head to keep her hair , which tended to fall around her face like a tattered flag , out of the way before she put the tip of an index finger on either side of an excrescence centered over her left eyebrow .
she pushed down and away .
the growth , like a miniature nebula , exploded onto the mirror .
she shoots , she scores !
prissi stared at her contribution to the communal killing field until a panicky flutter told her to look at her mypod .
she swore .
if she didnt flame , she was going to be late for fi sci .
dr. smarkzy , even though he was her counselor and mentor , did not tolerate students walking in late .
despite her being his star pupil , if she came in late , he would have an aneurysm , and prissi didnt want her favorite teacher dead .
plus , if she got one more gig during winter term , which was almost over , shed be over the limit and back on skru kru scraping plates and ignoring sniggers .
freeieekin stupid idiocracy .
prissi yanked the bathroom door so hard , it snapped back and caught the tip of her left wing .
making a sound that was more expressive than any words could have been , prissi jerked her wing free .
a half dozen silver feathers fluttered to the grimy floor as the re energized and re angered girl accelerated down the hall toward class .
prissi langues favorite subject at the dutton school was science .
she liked chineseit slowed her mind down , especially when she had to focus hard on the tonals .
she loved her english classshe had spent more time with books than parents or peers growing up in africa .
but , she adored science .
despite being on the verge of finishing her fifth term , prissi was still amazed at how good the science at dutton was .
while it had been 2094 in the rest of the world , in a science classroom in bujumbura when she was a student there , it might just as well been 1994 .
to prissi , science in burundi was an overly christian white woman droning .
in contrast , sitting in advanced field science , fi sci ii , was like having a bag of popcorn going off in her headfifty minutes of thoughts careening and ricocheting around inside her head .
the teacher of fi sci ii , an exceedingly old and horribly crippled man , a gnome with a slow smile but a fast gnomic tongue , dr. smarkzy , seemed to know all science well and his specialty , a combination of prionology and sub molecular chemistry , cold .
like some of the particles and strands he described , smarkzy himself could be volatile , maybe even a little unstable , but to prissi he was a godprometheus .
an old arthritic prometheus , except prissi guessed that dr. smarkzy didnt feel that his time with students was as bad as being chained to a rockat least , most of the time .
as soon as she had walked into her first fi sci ii class the previous september , prissi had known it was going to be a disaster .
it was her last class of the first day of her second year .
all of her other classes that day had been had been taught by young , energetic and , mostly , attractive teachers .
in contrast , the man standing at the front of the lecture portion of the small auditorium looked to be more than a century old .
he was a tiny man , almost as short as prissi , with a gargantuan head , bald except for a few tufts of pure white hair springing out from above his enormous , translucent ears .
the ears were extraordinary .
despite the many hours she had spent studying them since that first day , they continued to have a kind of abhorrent attraction for prissi .
pink and gray with a blue tinged rim , they reminded prissi of the shells of some kind of molluska kind you wouldnt want to eat .
when dr. smarkzy talked , the ears slowly waved like anemones in a tidal pool .
going along with the old mans ghastly ears , were hands and legs so crippled that he shuffled and scuttled , like a scorpion .
that first day , when dr. smafrkzy pointed at prissi to take a perch in the first row behind the walkers chairs , all of his fingers except for his pinky actually pointed back at himself .
prissi slowed from a flog to a walk as she spotted the weiners , a old couple who were the heads in mickelson house and famous for giving out gigs for the least of infractions , standing out in front of the mu datarium .
the old furtz were going to make her late .
a second later she forgot her frustration when she heard nasty nancy squeak , priscilla langue , you are going to be tardeeee .
when prissi whipped around , she almost caught her roommate with the edge of her wings .
all because of you .
you ate my snoogles and my yogiyums .
i could have starved to death !
the vehemence of her denial made nasty nancys hair , which resembled a large red dyed cotton ball , toss about like tumbleweed stuck on a fence post .
i hate yogiyums .
youve been known to inhale what you hate .
not yogiyums .
theyre like mayonnaise filled marshmallows .
despite knowing that speed and nasty nancy were antithetical , prissi pleaded , cmon .
hurry up .
well be late .
doesnt matter to me .
im not even close to screw crew and spring break starts in five days .
after that , the academic gods wipe the slate cleanwhich means what ?
isnt slate a kind of rock ?
why does it need to be wiped ?
african thing .
tell you later .
got ta go .
to see dr. crab ?
looking around , but not seeing the weiners , prissi resumed flogging toward class .
as she half flew and half jogged toward the worn double doors of the scientatory , she returned to her memory of that first day , of how dr. smarkzy had stood quietly in front of the class , waiting for the bell to briz .
it was only his eyes , amazingly bright and improbably turquoise , that led prissi to guess that his mouth was twisted in a grin , not a grimace .
afraid to defy his direction , prissi had moved to the spot he had indicated .
she reluctantly had climbed onto her perch and had been horrified at the thought of spending a year with such a repulsive looking person .
six months later , prissi could not deny that vartan smarkzy was ill made .
in fact , she had had to concede that point to nasty nancy more than once .
but , and this is what her roomie did not get , any distraction that smarkzys looks might cause stopped the moment when his sparkling eyes , melodic voice and irresistible enthusiasm for teaching science began .
prissi was half way through the door to room 320a of the katharine zoeg scientatory just as the bell brizzed .
when prissi hesitated at the door , dr. smarkzy shifted his smartstick from the glowing three foot hologram of pockmarked tissue caused by the prion responsible for bovine spongiform encephalopathy to prissi and then down to her seat in the first row of perches .
while the chagrined teener made her way toward her perch , ignoring the smirks and sibilant sniggers of her classmates , smarkzy drew his neck down into his shoulders like a turtle waiting for a fish .
the second prissi perched , smarkzy , like a mad wagnerian conductor , was using his smartstick to lead the class to a deeper understanding of the escher like folds and structures of prions and their effects in dna .
dna .
stairway to a trillion possibilities .
although her mother and father always had laughed at the absurdity when prissi would accuse them of not being her real parents , prissi often wondered whether she was made from her parents dna .
as early as fourth grade , when she began to learn of all the parenting possibilitiesgees genetically enhanced embryos , surrogation , hy babes hybrid babies with either sperm or egg from a donor , and the ancient stand by , adoption , prissi had fantasized about how she came to be with the people who called themselves her parents .
those tales , first thought while lying on a cot under mosquito netting on the eastern shore of lake tanganyika , usually involved exotic people in even more exotic circumstances .
prissi stared at the ladder of life pulsing inside its glowing sac at the front of the room and considered the wisdom of bringing some of her parents dna back after winter break to prove that she could not possibly be their spawn .
prissi snorted so loudly that smarkzys smartstick swung in her direction .
her face reddening in dismay , prissi covered her mouth to squelch another outburst .
spawn .
prissi langue loved that word .
evil spawn .
like corn smut , but with shoes and underwear .
prissi toyed with the idea of bringing back a gatherum of hair from her fathers brush , then bribing an honors senior to type it to see if she really was flesh of his flesh .
but , that would only answer half the equation .
finding out about her mother would not be so easy .
the only possession prissi had of her mothers was a small , ornately carved rosewood box .
after her father gave it to her , prissi had been caught within a labyrinth of emotions as she opened it and found her mothers engagement and wedding rings , as well as a strand of pale green pearls .
even after hundreds of times , looking in the box still released a rats nest of feelings in the girl .
prissi shook her catfood brown hair to sweep away her thoughts .
coming out of class , prissi saw joe fflowers broad back half way down the hallway .
she sped up and darted left and right around her classmates to get closer .
like with a lot of teener relationships , prissi sometimes had a much better time watching joe than actually being with him .
even from the back , she could tell that , like always , he was walking with his nose in the air .
she rode her loving loathing like a favorite horse as she scanned down from his shiny , blond , perfectly curled , but perfectly uncoifed hair to his too broad shoulders and down to his vcb .
the first time prissi had noticed the very cute butt , it was so distinctive that she had nicknamed it hector .
when she found out who its owner was , that he came from a family with more money than mombai , came from the family that had dominated the meta mutancy business for three quarters of a century , she was sure the vcb would never have a place in her life .
but , in another example of duttons famous tradition of diversity , prissi lange and joe fflowers had become friends , and , finally , after a months long fencing match of feints and counters , more than friends .
following three steps behind , prissi had a bittersweet feeling in knowing that hector would soon go behind the feathered veil .
there was no chance that joes family would let him remain a walker .
prissi had listened too many times while a cavalierly defiant joe explained why he didnt want wingsat least , right now .
he wanted to play hockey .
prissi knew that joes reputation was that he was one of the top ten high school hockey players in the country .
but , even if that were true , prissi could not imagine joes father , illiya fflowers , the co president of cygnetics , a company that fledged over five million teenerz a year , letting joe have his way .
whether he wanted it that way or not , the joe fflowers was going to have to accept that tomorrow would be his last hockey game as a walker .
four days after that , spring break would begin .
prissi was positive that when joe returned from break , he would have been muted .
and , while the world would have gained a winger , unfortunately , prissis eyes would have to bid a fond adieu to a visible vcb .
prissi skipped around kipo phelps , wrapped an arm around joes waist and laid her head on his shoulder .
hi .
joe wriggled himself free .
no pdas , miss .
well , what if i hit you in the arm , would that be seen a public display of affection ?
an attack on me is an attack on dutton .
wouldnt want that .
ill see you later .
in private .
joe turned toward prissi , and gave a slight nod toward the restroom door , but said nothing .
as prissi watched joes vcb go through the doorway , she sighed .
once again , for the billionth time , commerce would trump art .
oh , woe .
goodnight , sweet butt of a not always so sweet prince .
prissi snorted , then immediately chastised herself .
next to her flourishing farm of excrescences , her high strung ever talking hands , her mutation into a fizgig whenever she had too much caffeine , and the nose , of course , the monumental nose , the thing prissi hated most about herself was her snort .
it was a horrible noise .
like the sound a javelina would make before it gored a dog .
the snort was her unedited laugh and it made her want to cry when she heard it .
with gallimaufry thoughts of love and hate , like and dislike , bubbling in her brain , the girl hurried down the hall and burst from the zoeg .
the sun was shining , the wind was blowing .
the tulip heads wee bobbing in a way that reminded the girl of twa tribe dancers .
another snort was triggered by the massive snowflakes dancing in the sky .
snow in march was unknown .
snow from a blue sky in march was magic , and , for prissi langue , magic always drew a snort .
chapter two bff the wingless joe fflowers fliesin skates , on ice .
unless he makes a mind boggling decision , tomorrow will be the last time joe will skate in evenen rink .
he loves the old arena .
of the scores of rinks where he has practiced and played hockey for eleven years , the century old evenen rink has the hardest ice he has ever skated on .
evenens ice is so hard that the sound his speeding blades make as he races over its surface could have come from some medieval japanese musical instrument .
cross push stretch cross push stretch dont think cross push stretch .
joe has the entire sheet of ice to himself .
his friday schedule leaves the last class period of the day free .
every week of hockey season he has taken those extra minutes before practice begins just to skate .
no helmet .
no pads .
no stick .
just dim lights and hard ice .
joe explodes forward as he uses all of his strength to push through on the inside edge of his left skate .
he closes his eyes to concentrate on two soundsthe hissing of metal slicing through ice and the roar of a thirty kilometer an hour wind blowing past his ears .
he glides blind down the length of the rink .
at the last second , as some inner sense feels the boards just ahead , he shifts his weight to his outside edge and , eyes still closed , circles back from whence he came .
if he does not decide , can not decide , then , tomorrow it is over .
in a week , the skater will be gone .
a mutant bird in its place .
joe opens his eyes , cuts an edge , uses three short explosive steps to accelerate , lengthens his stride , digs hard , increases his speed and smashes his shoulder into the rickety old glass .
the rink reverberates with sound .
five more days .
his father has let him know the day before that the wing mute is scheduled for the day after he gets home for spring break .
five days and the thing he likes doing most in the world will be gone .
unless .
joe spins toward the opposite end of the rink and speeds off .
he drives himself down the ice .
as he crosses the second blue line , he notices movement in the shadows behind the heavily scratched glass .
coach deirkin .
the bald , but bearded coach , famous for his harangues , merely points his finger and gives a slight shake of his head to his best player .
joe aborts his crash .
slowing his breathing and his speed , the fifteen year old circles the rink a half dozen times .
the first three times around as he comes down the ice he looks closely through the dim glass for deirkin .
after that , he decides that his coach has gone down to his office , probably to practice yelling .
joe tentatively extends his arms and flaps .
flaps again .
flaps and swears at his father and what is to be his fate .
unless .
after practice ends , joe holds back .
he waits until he is sure that he is the last one leaving the rink .
instead of following his teammates , who are rushing down the hill to get to the dining hall , joe slips along the wall of the side of the rink and hurries to the back .
the boy makes his way through a small forest of shadows .
he stops where he has been told to wait and listens .
the only sounds he hears are a couple of shrill taunts from down the hill and the bored drone of the compressors making ice .
its joe .
the tired boy leans against the wall and looks at stars sprinkled , like sequins , among a sky full of cotton balls .
he waits for ten minutes , but no one shows .
as joe waits , his feelings rise and sink , like a teeter totter , between relief and disappointment .
he doesnt want wings , but he doesnt want to leave dutton and he definitely doesnt want to leave prissi .
joe knows he has a hard time showing it , but prissi langue does something inside him that no girlno person ever has done .
she seems to see past all the defenses and screens he has had to put up from being from an immensely wealthy family .
she teases him , likes him , argues with him and , best of all , acts like she doesnt know his last name .
he cant even imagine how much he will miss herif he decides to go .
as joe pushes himself from the wall and shifts his skate bag higher on his shoulder , a low voice emanates from the deep shadows between the compressors and the rink wall , have you decided ?
a startled joe blurts , yes , ino .
not really .
times short .
i know .
it cant happen on a whim .
it has to be set up .
organized .
i know .
i know .
as joes fears turn to anger at being watchedstudiedfor ten minutes , it causes his voice to pitch up an octave .
he worries that it might break .
it cant happen with a days notice .
we need two days , at least .
its not going to happen now .
im late .
ive got to go .
think hard .
its close to too late .
think what you will lose .
you could be the best .
joe whirls away from the speaker , as if eluding a defender on the ice , and sprints toward the lights of the dining hall .
as he shoves open the massive door , the teener is breathing hard , and not so much from the run , as from what he is running from .
he hurries into the reassuringly familiar light and warmth , the myriad of noises and pastiche of smells swirling through mullen dining hall .
after being abandoned by nasty nancy , prissi has been sitting alone with her dinner and her thoughts .
tonights dance .
smarkzys special lecture on sunday .
the essay due on tuesday .
how boring spring break was going to be .
and the thing she didnt want to think about seeing joes cousin jack fflowers in less than twenty hours at the bissell school dedication .
prissis thought get even more jumbled when she sees joe run into the dining room and grab a tray .
as joe moves from station to station filling his tray , he looks down the length of the cavernous room to where his teammates are sitting .
in the far left corner beak , frankie nuts , willie t and bawlzout bechley seem to be scrimmaging as much as eating .
feeling too confused to defend himself against their rough friendship , joe veers off to the right side of the tudor style hall to where prissi perches at a table by herself .
just before he sits , joe looks back to be sure that the dessert station will block his teammates view .
after he drops his skate bag , joe nods to prissi .
prissi tips her head at joes tray , which is filled with meat and potatoes , and in a mocking voice says , all green .
joe , laughing at the line some ecos use as a greeting , responds with its complement , or all gone .
prissi dramatically twirling her fork through the edamame and udon noodle salad she has been avoiding says , or , not .
when a nonplussed prissi saw joe bee lining toward her table , she had twisted around so quickly to see if the hockey corner was empty that she had snapped a couple of quills .
now , while joe scarfs his food , prissi leans forward so she can angle her wing and pull out the useless quills .
freeieekin feathers .
she was born too late .
sixty years ago , it was still possible to get membrane wings .
but , the ersatz bat wings had gone out of favor not only because the folds of flesh didnt contain melanin , thus wouldnt tan , but also because the wings couldnt be grown without claw like appendages at the end , which had to be kept trimmed .
plus , of course , they were disgustingly ugly , which prissi , given her age , actually considered a strong selling point .
fine , she thinks .
wings that looked like they were made from the wattles of dowager geris had drawbacks , but they didnt have freeieekin feathers .
after prissi finishes her wingkeeping and looks over , joe fflowers seems a million kliks away .
not sure of what he might be thinking or feeling , prissi feels an irresistible urge to touch the bumps on her face before putting her head down and stirring her food .
she wishes nasty nancy hadnt run off to finish her homework before the dance .
although prissi is still hungry , she is not hungry enough to chance the social dangers of eating udon with joe at the table .
she can visualize noodles flying across the table and onto joe after being launched by some random spazz neuronal blast .
or , if by some unexpected good fortune , the food happened to make it to her mouth , she is sure that half of it would hang from her lips like the slobber and green that slops from the mouth of a hippo deep into its dinner .
but , swirling and twirling , but not eating , looks stupid , too .
and , she cant leavebecause because .
because , she cant .
because her honor demands that she say something about going to the bissell school tomorrow to see jack .
after a painful moment , instead of the truth , the guilt driven side of prissi opts to go with a non sequitor .
smarkzy .
what do you think ?
prissi blurts as a second part of her brain wonders how joes nose still seems to be pointing up when his head is tipped down over his plate what about smarkzy ?
genius , huh ?
not to me .
hes just a garden variety scientist .
prissis face goes from the pink of internal conflict to angers bright red .
she asks combatively , and that would be ?
dissatisfied , superior , tunnel visioned snoops .
prissi fakes a smile she hopes will convey her surprise that such a handsome privileged alete can be so cynical .
but , interesting , right ?
joe puts his fork down and tilts his head so he can face prissi more directly .
not to me .
theyre all the same .
its all about dissatisfaction .
it doesnt matter how much they know , its not enough .
science is all about knowing .
every time a scientist learns something , he wants to leap forward to learn something else .
its like theyre boy scouts collecting badges and cant get enough .
so , like every other alete who got in here on brawn and nor brain , you prefer ignorance .
joe fflowers shakes his head in disgust and turns back to the solace of his plate .
prissi stirs her food and savors the double dip of guiltover what she has said and what she hasnt .
after waiting long enough to suggest that she is withdrawing rather than retreating , prissi gathers everything onto her plate and pushes back her chair .
as she tentatively walks behind joe , the unhappy teener retches a small , bitter , sorry .
joe nods his head , then , without turning around , quietly says , more to himself than to prissi , i prefer feeling to knowing .
since it is easier to feel righteous than guilty , prissi says , well , since you do , let me say that i feel more like studying tonight than dancing .
a part of prissi hopes that joe will parry something back , but he just shakes his head again .
prissi hurls her plate and silverware onto the conveyor at the bussing station , then , bolts from the silence that trails behind her .
chapter three minor miracles one hundred sixty kilometers south of dutton on the wounded island of manhattan , joe fflowers grandfather , one hundred seven year old joshua fflowers , is tapping the treads of his wheelchair and thinking of flight .
before him , through the glass wall , a flurry of rare and precious snowflakes dance in the currents of the updrafts rising from the street one hundred thirty eight stories below .
ever since he moved into the airie almost seventy years before , fflowers has been intrigued by the phenomenon of a rising snowfall .
to the west , across the three kilometer wide hudson river , ragged vermillion clouds scud toward him as the source of their evanescent beauty , a dying sun , drifts toward the horizon .
it is just minutes before the ancients favorite time of day .
his gnarled bones , more claws than hands , tattoo the treads in anticipation of whats to come as well as anger at the slow passage of the minutes .
years blur by , and , still , minutes drag .
fflowers nudges the wheelchair closer to the electricity generating secur solar windows so that he better can see fifth avenue a half kilometer below .
after a long look into what once had been the worlds economic grand canyon , the trillionaire looks out at the thousand upon thousands of aquaphorous lights that give a blue green glow down the spine of the island south all the way to the houston levee .
as he waits for the minutes to pass , the old man recalls the first time he stepped onto what once was such a vibrant island .
may 21 , 2010 .
his eighth month at cold spring harbor laboratory .
an mit phd .
micro biologist and post doc researcher at twenty two .
dragged , along with elena howe , by the primary researchers , their mentors and bosses , reiklein and grammai , to meet larktston , the magic money man , who was becoming interested in meta mutancy .
spring fog and drizzle .
grid locked streets .
muted headlights .
bleating horns .
shiny surfaces everywhere .
a gauntlet of umbrella spokes as they hurried toward the plaza after abandoning their marooned cab .
larkston meeting them in the oak roombeyond garrulous , maybe drunk .
pork chop hands squeezing shoulders and elbows , herding .
into the elevator .
up twenty floors .
larkston big in an airless room .
little thingsred , black , greenon silver trays .
big slugs of alcohol in little glasses .
napkins , napkins and more napkins pressed upon him by a tiny waiter with a comical hispanic accent .
larkstons laugh , like his billions , growing exponentially .
ricocheting off the walls despite the floral rug and damask covered couches .
grammai rolling his eyes , stuttering in alarm that a magic moment , so long schemed for , might pass without being seized .
in her first of a thousand times , elena into the breach .
fingers .
calming fingers stroking larkstons arm like a favorite horses mane .
soothing words .
her low whisper of a laugh taming larkstons bray .
grammai with the laptop .
reiklein , the breathy , hyper kinetic zealot , interrupting grammai , the oppenheimer clone .
elena , touching , smiling , breathing , not begging , but rather imbuing the rich man with belief .
thenthe moment .
the mutation .
from interested observer to contractually shackled benefactor .
handshakes .
back pats .
more over generous drinks .
the just shy of impolite retreat .
gamboling down fifth .
if over weight , middle aged genius can gambol .
to the train .
to the labs .
to the ramparts .
the old man looks at his watch , a stem wound gold cased graduation gift from his ineffectual father , who himself had received it from his almost wealthy great grandfather .
only two minutes have gone by .
a snowflake as large and light as a dandelion seed bounds up , hits the window , rotates ninety degrees and melts away .
the ancient midas watches its rill slide toward earth .
his fingers tap .
he looks out toward the southern half of manhattan .
the island is so different from when he first came to live on it .
back then , it had felt as if the city were more alive at night than during the day .
he loved to wander about looking at the lights and the magic they made of the night .
while the streets of soho , tribeca and west heights were busy and even crowded during the day , they werent bustling , they werent kinetic with the edgy kind of energy that they had at night .
he had come to the city and the city had changed .
in part because of his efforts , but , he told himself , the vision before him would have been even more different without his efforts .
it was not just manhattan .
the world itself had changed .
the world had gotten warmer and wetter and manhattan , once capital to the world , now was dying .
and , he had changed .
he had gotten colder , drier , andandhe was dying .
it was almost quitting time in the thousands of offices below him .
a century before , a human wave of energy would have spilled out onto the streets .
like a broken dam .
and that torrent would have plunged through the canyons and poured into the restaurants and bars , the bodegas and markets .
what had been full during the day would empty and what had been empty would fill and overflow .
the city had been so alivebut , then , immutable , unstoppable metamorphosis .
like all cities , in all times .
like all of life .
ice melted a half a world away and that newly released water found its way to long island sound and the rivers that bordered both sides of the city .
tides had risen and then barriers to protect the city had risen and the waters had risen higher and the city had fought back but the waters rose again and , after awhile , the city had tired of the fight .
the streets of southern manhattan became canals .
the ground floors of buildings were abandoned .
entrances were raised .
catwalk and elevated sidewalks hugged the facades of wall street for a time and , then , had been abandoned like a rotting ship .
like an old pensioner facing straitened circumstances , the city had retreated from what had been and cobbled together what could be .
over time , more and more people decided that it was easier to leave than absorb the changes .
two new , clean , well lighted , sterile cities , nicknamed newton and screwton , had been birthed in the western hills of new jersey .
newtonbirthmother of the new in fashion , music and the vid arts , the only visual art remaining .
and screwton , the ever cold , ever hungry succubus to mammon .
on this particular weather mad march eve , the old man , now , finally , a realist , slips his noose and indulges both in nostalgia for a city , and a life once ten times as bright .
his mind jumps with bright hued , but scattered , memories , like a scrap book unbound .
.bursting through set after set of double doors with the desperate desire of a salmon on a fish ladder , through the final portal , then , sucking blue black night air deep into his lungs while his eyes feasted on the star pocked sky .
a night herons pale moon shadow racing across concrete the color of old ivory .
the tic flicking exhaustion and brain inflaming exhilaration of knowing they are close , so close to the biological switch they are trying to divine .
a galvanic fear that they will miss the small turn that can take them through the maze .
moments later , knowing it is the perfect moment , elena howe , now wife , though not named fflowers , licorice black shiny hair keeping time to the broken rhythm of the breeze , rushing up to offer perfect lips to fflowers .
elena , a silver sylph brightening a lunar world .
hermes in disguise .
fflowers emaciated fingers drift to his face .
he touches the drought dry corners of his eyes before rubbing the ridges of his forehead .
the sky goes scarlet .
finally , six oclock comes .
below him , a first thousand doors open .
workers in therma jerkins of every color , kanga paks cinched tightly across their chests , crowd the doorways .
two or three quick steps along the docks jutting from each floor of every building , a moments plummet , and then the flap of wings .
thousands upon thousands , one hundred thousand , then two , then three hundred thousand winged humans begin their flights home .
all those flights and freedoms , each and every one , a boon from his small bands efforts almost eighty years before .
human flight , now an old trick , but one still worth the wait for an old earth bound man .
a dying man .
for a few short moments , like the bats in carlsbad cavern , clouds of humans , their wings of every shape and color , fill the sky .
ten minutes later , the flock is gone , the city empty except for slow exodus of the wingless .
the old man rolls himself back from the glass wall , executes a slow turn and makes his way down a long hallway toward his nightly chore .
joshua fflowers wheels himself to the dining room , where a table that could , and a half century before regularly did , seat thirty , is set for one .
although he is not hungry , when he is served , joshua fflowers eats .
despite the palette of colors on his platethe sea grass green of asparagus , an arterial red tomato sprinkled with chalk white chevre , two seared lamb chops with golden edgeswhen those colors get inside his mouth , they turn to gray .
the old man has ageusia , has had it nearly a half century , since the year after elena was lost .
all food , whether crisp , crunchy , chewy or of a pudding softness , whether marinated in wine , bathed in infusions of basil or rosemary , or drowned in a puree of scotch bonnets , vinegar , molasses and milk , tastes likegraylike nothing .
food as slurry .
food as duty .
and , since his health has failed , he can not even eat what is on that brightly hued plate .
that plate is just art , artifice and irony .
his health is such that dinner comes from a bottle fitted with a tube .
the centenarians twisted hands drag the bottle toward him .
he lowers his lips and suckles whatever is in it that supposedly harms him least .
oh , romulus , such a meta mutancy , the craving wolf into a craven lamb .
there are not many areas where fflowers is , or ever was , dutiful , but this is one .
he eats to sustain a life that passes both too fast and too slow .
a life that , at midday , is much too short , and , alert and alone at three in the morning , much , much , much too long .
oh , elena , what we could have wrought .
the old head jerks up when he realizes that he has blurted out in anguish what he only had meant to think .
he swallows methodically , but thinks less so .
he is dying and hopes for that relief .
he is dying and begrudges that darkness .
he has all of an old mans wantsrevenge , love , forgiveness , eternity .
he hopes he has just one more day with all this weighty age that has worn him down .
he will dedicate the building tomorrow .
then , go off to his rejuvenation .
if all goes well , in two weeks he might be eating from a plate .
he might be walking .
he might be happy .
if all goes wrong , well , then , a bane is lifted and he is free .
chapter four betrayals bissell school sophomore halfa hunk and modestly talented soccerhero , jack fflowers flung the frz b past prissis right shoulder toward lake wanapocamuc .
from twenty meters below her , nancy sloan challenged , no waya you can playa .
prissi yelled back , oh , yaya ?
prissi dropped her right wing , threw her left leg over her right , and shoved her left wing forward and down .
her body pivoted around .
she drew up her legs and pulled her wings tight to her body .
she cannonballed until she was less than ten meters feet above the lake .
when she executed a two part wing flare , her silver and red feathers shimmered like the aurora borealis .
prissi dove down and caught the frz b in her mouth when it was less than a meter above the glittering surface of the lake .
she barked in delight as she skimmed just above the lakes dimpled water .
as the winger passed from water to land , she banked up , then , abruptly dropped her last rows of remiges down to brake .
when she landed , the exuberant teener skidded on a small patch that remained of the previous nights snow .
as she snapped her body to keep her balance , something popped in her right shoulder .
despite the needle sharp pain , prissi forced herself to finish off the one hop landing .
the hurting winger stopped just in front of the granite perches by the bissell school boathouse where she , jack and nasty nancy had been sitting nd talking until competitive juices and spring hormones had motivated them to play an under manned version of 3d frz b .
prissis shoulder was on fire , but she didnt say anything when jack , with a flurry of bright white and bissell blue feathers , muffed his own one hopper and banged against the boat house .
nancy slowed so much on her landing attempt that she fell from the sky with the grace of a pregnant booby .
nancy was panting , and , as prissi easily read from her cork screwed eyebrows and radish red face , not too happy that she hadnt scored a single point .
since she still had the frz b in her mouth , prissi cocked her head like a cocker spaniel and , to break the tension , puppy moaned until her roomie laughed .
bad puppy .
give me my frz b .
prissi backed up a step and growled .
puppy !
prissi extended her neck nasty nancy took the disk , gave prissi a pat , then , all three teenerz plopped onto their rough hewn perches .
hiding her eyes with her spineless hair , prissi studied jack and compared him to his cousin .
where joes hair was blond and curly , jacks was caramel colored , slightly wavy with a sheen that looked more greasy than healthy .
where joes chest came before the rest of him like an ice breaker plowing the northern seas , it was jacks sleek otter head that arrived before his narrow chest and indifferently slumped shoulders .
where joes eyes were bright blue , round and innocent , jacks were dark and lazy .
joe was mostly forthright jack seemed to prefer corners and alleys .
all in all prissi thought joe was more attractive , but jack was more distractive .
prissi shivered in delightand guilt .
after taking a long and purposefully loud slurp of his caffe mucho and tapping out the opening of beethovens fifth on the table top , jack fflowers complimented prissi on her catch .
prissi demurred , its all in the wings .
how much time do we have ?
nancy looked at her mypod , about an hour .
exchanging the girl to girl look , prissi stated in the way generations of teener girls have , so that her statement sounded like a question , we better go get cleaned up ?
as the trio flew toward jacks dorm , they looked down at the temporary stage that had been set up for the dedication of the new science center .
the light covering of snow , which blanketed the rest of the hilly bissell campus , had been removed from in front of the stage with blowers .
sitting on brilliant spring green grass was a battalion of folding chairs and perches in close formation .
from high above , prissi could imagine an ancient army awaiting the clarions .
rising imposingly from behind the stage , just to the right of grayswold hall was that ancient science buildings replacementthe six story , six sided pink and gray granite joshua f. fflowers scientatory .
a half dozen members of the bissell grounds crew were fussing over barrels of brave school blue tulips looking forlorn against the snowy backdrop .
as she passed over the stage , prissi was more than a little surprised when she realized that the little man painfully mounting the temporary stairs and shuffling his way to the podium was vartan smarkzy .
prissi flew in a tight circle so that she could watch her mentor look out over the non existent audience before taking a sheaf of papers from his pocket and sticking them on a shelf under the podiums top .
prissi pounded her lts and caught up with nasty nancy and jack just as they dropped down and landed in front of the tower which jutted from the front of hoch hall .
did you see who that was ?
dr. smarkzy .
whats bissell doing letting my favorite dutton teacher talk ?
jack grinned , our arch rivalry is dead for a day .
except for frz b .
smarkzy is giving the dedication .
he and my grandfather went to school together .
my grandfather told me smarkzy did some real ce work back then .
nancy gacked her patented cynical laugh , what was cutting edge back then ?
battery operated flashlights ?
he creeps me .
hes like a crab , but with no shell .
prissi fought the urge to argue with her roomie .
ever since coming back from winter break and finding adam lin no longer had an interest in her , nancy had been putting on weight .
with each kilogram of flesh gained , nasty nancy had become nastiermore sarcastic , more critical , more cynical .
given the way her friend was panting after a sortie that hadnt changed prissis breathing at all , the teener guessed that nancy was only a few kilos away from having her wings clipped .
for prissi , that was a very scary thought .
even though nasty nancy sloan did not love flying in the way that she herself did , prissi knew that if her roomie were grounded , the results would be so ugly that their friendship , begun the first week of their lower mid year , would not survive .
prissi took a tai breath to calm herself down , but , it didnt help much .
she took another breath and held it even longer .
prissi told herself that she needed to stop being so judgmental , even though being judgmental was one of the constitutionally guaranteed rights and privileges of teener girls .
she looked over at nancy who was scowling and waiting for a comeback .
prissi clamped her jaws and smiled .
to get away from feeling meek and indecisive , prissi turned her attention from nancy back to jack .
even though jack fflowers had no vcb , he was not without a certain darkside ish charm , and it was that which is what had gotten prissi in her current mess .
in the classroom , but , especially , on the playing field , dutton and bissell had been fierce , but friendly , rivals for more than two hundred years .
on the ice , up and down the steep hills of cross country courses , on the links , in sculls , on football , baseball and soccer fields , thousands upon thousands of contests had been played out in hard fought and , often , close competition .
each fall , the schools alternated hosting an afternoons athletic contests , then a dinner , and , afterwards , a dance .
the previous year , it had been bissell turn to host the events .
prissi , the only lower mid on the varsity soccer team , first met jack fflowers when he complimented her play as she came off the field after an agonizing 3 2 dutton loss .
later in the afternoon on that perfect october day , prissi watched jack play on the junior varsity soccer team in a game in which jack had gotten two penalties as his team lost to dutton 5 4 .
prissi and jack bumped into each other at the dinner and , again , at the dance .
giving into the teener version of the fates , the two new acquaintances talked a little and danced a lot before it was time for the dutton students to return to their campus .
the next time prissi saw jack fflowers was in three months when he showed up at dutton for januarys winter dance .
again , there was more dancing than talk .
at the end of the night , there was something in the shadows outside mullen hall that made prissis lips tingle for what seemed like a week .
afterward , they traded a half dozen txts .
by the time bissell came to dutton the following fall , prissis friendship with jacks cousin , joe fflowers , had begun .
joe had been both surprised and unhappy when prissi told him that she knew jack .
joe made it very obvious that the two cousins did not get along .
against her better judgment , but enjoying the frizz it gave her , prissi got together with jack after their respective 3d frz b contests .
both had given up soccer after having fledged over the summer .
they met by the pond and talked a little before prissi , to relieve the awkwardness she was feeling , challenged jack to a flying contest .
when prissi easily won that contest , jack stalked away angry .
she saw him staring at her at the dance while she was dancing with joe .
the boys faces made plain their feelings , even though the band was too loud to hear what they said to one another .
when prissi was back in home in manhattan over winter break , jack had txtd her and apologized .
a day later he called and she had agreed to meet him at the diddy center to ice skate .
since prissi had grown up in burundi , where the only ice skates to be found might be in a colonial era museum , jack easily outskated her before taking her to dinner at nams , one of the most expensive restaurants in manhattan .
back at school , they had txtd one another a couple of times a week , a practice prissi had not quite gotten around to sharing with joe .
despite their intersections and interactions , prissi had been surprised when with only two days notice jack had invited her to the ceremonies for the dedication of his grandfathers gift to bissell .
she had hesitated to accept until she learned that joe was not going to the ceremonies so that he could play his last hockey game for dutton .
after she had failed to tell joe what she was going to do , prissi had squirmed an invitation for nasty nancy to come along to ease her guilt .
prissi nodded her head back toward the new building as she asked jack , does your grandfather like his legacy ?
when jack shook his head , waves of peking duck colored hair bounced attractively .
he hasnt seen it much lately .
he used to come up here a lot to check things out , and take me to dinner .
but , not lately .
he doesnt get out much .
he was supposed to be rejuved six months ago , but then there was an organ match problem .
and then this thing , jack swept his arms toward the new building , got delayed .
he really wanted to be here , so he just decided to put things off until after the dedication .
but as he waited , things got worse .
after he finishes up here today , he goes right to the juvenal institute .
nasty nancy offered her caustic opinion , i cant see hurting my health so a bunch of bored kids can clap for me .
a furious jack enunciated each word , i dont think he is here for the acclaim .
he loves bissell .
he thinks that if it werent for the education he got here as a student , a scholarship student , none of the other things would have happened .
like becoming the richest man in the world .
nasty nancys tone caused both prissi and jack to step back from where they had been leaning against the black granite perches in front of hoch hall .
need a breather , nance , said a mortified prissi .
jack said nothing .
he just flew away .
chapter five gee whiz joshua fflowers felt as old as time as he smiled and scrabbled with another hand .
some unconscious , but meticulous , portion of his brain recorded it as the one hundred forty first hand shake .
despite the pain in his finger joints , fflowers squeezed firmly and dryly .
he held back a sigh , smiled and reached out to the next well wisher while pushing back his own wish just to be done with the circus in which he was starring .
fflowers had been excited when he first had the idea of giving bissell a new science center , but , now , almost four years later , he was far beyond the point of regret .
he didnt begrudge the money he had spent on building and equipping a facility that put andover and exeter , eton and harrow , even toin , to shame .
the money was nothing , not even one tenth of one percent of his worth .
if his commitment had been no more than the transfer of funds , things would have been fine .
but , of course , it could not be that simple .
nothing ever was , except in physics .
he had to be toadied to , fawned over , and feted by the schools administration and trustees .
he had to be consulted with on the architecture and artworknot that anyone particularly listened .
he had to be commended and thankedby everyone from headmaster binny dowdahl to the board of trustees to the alumni association to the parents committee and student council to the little fellow who folded towels in the field house .
he had to be lauded and applauded at the just finished dedication ceremonies where he had given a speech that was more coughs and growls than subjects and verbs .
and , now now , he was in a receiving line that snaked to infinity , acquiring a zoo of germs from squeezing the greedy hands of envious wishers and obsequious well wishers leaning over his wheel chair , coveting his wealth , pitying his health , all while whispering , bellowing platitudes , gratitude and good cheer .
the benign benefactor in fflowers fought the rebels urge to power up the wheelchair and plow through the crowd to safety .
away from the parade of stifling people with their mid body noises and smells as they hulked and hovered over him .
away from the stream of sycophancy slowly wending its way past him .
away to the roto .
to relief .
in three hours he could be through the institutes doors and beginning the rejuve he should have had so long ago .
joshua fflowers ruefully thought of how he might have delayed too long , irrevocably ruined his health , for the sheer joy of what he was doing at the moment .
the old man toyed with the wheelchair toggle .
he turned his head to stare at the sleek stomach , an abdomen looking almost as stiff as its starched shirt covering , of binny dowdahl .
well met hale fellow headmaster .
spinner of dreams .
pocket picker of the rich .
fflowers considered whether he should request , or demand of dowdahl , that his duties be over , but binny was regaling an oriental couple looking de la mode chinois in their long flame hued phoenix wings .
as fflowers waited for the ineffably charming dowdahl to finish his story , he recalled how even ives cheredon , his beloved headmaster from ninety years before , despite being as brilliant a raconteur as he was essayist and poet , occasionally had self loved his words and thoughts to where a tale well told , with more fillips and flourishes than a souza march , had made an assembly seem to last an eternity .
feeling his hand move , the old man turned away from the past to look up , past a short fat body , into a large eager face , hacked in half by a bad toothed smile .
except for the monstrous teeth , the man looked and smelled like a boiled egg .
while he pawed fflowers hand , the little man sputtered , thank you .
thank you .
yes , as always , i believe our future , our nations future , is now walking , now , this very day , in the hallowed halls of bissell .
those hands deserve the best , and you have certainly given them that .
i thank you .
bissell thanks you .
noramica thanks you .
yes .
yes .
yes .
as fflowers sent the man on his way , he wondered when the little enthusiast last had sent a eurollar to the school .
his gaze drifted back to dowdahls starched stomach .
the excursus continued .
another hand took fflowers .
he shook and smiled and shifted his thoughts to something much more pleasantsmarkzy .
being back with his oldest friend had been the high point of the day .
he and vartan had come to bissell the same year , 2001 .
smarkzy , the sophisticated only son of a new york investment bankera banker famous for taking outrageous risks on untried technologies and earning even more outrageous rewards had befriended the poor scholarship student escaping from the skeletal remains of a massachusetts mill town .
they met in a latin class and , despite their differences in background , found they had much in common .
both hated sports , abhorred the sweating , swearing camaraderie .
both loved sciencetearing back the veil to reveal natures close kept secrets .
both thought the greeks and romans , their art , literature , and history to be far more engaging than the current product .
vartan was smart , well bred , well read , quick with a quip , slow with a judgment .
smarkzy wassuddenly , the ruminations stopped .
at the edge of fflowers peripheral vision , but no more than a dozen handshakes away , was his grandson , jack .
a small hand , a small distraction .
thank you for your kind act .
thank you for your kind words .
as the next well wisher approached , fflowers looked at jack , but thought about jacks father and his uncle .
joshua fflowers despised both his sons , the younger one , illiya , for being an indecisive moralist , the older one , adaman , one for being immoral .
he cared little for his grandson , illiyas son , joe , but fflowers truly enjoyed his time with his grandson jack .
jack reminded the centenarian of how he was when he was young .
brash , devious , charming , bright , but not afraid of those who were brighter .
the next few guests , whatever they might have given or pledged to the school , got their moneys worth from joshua fflowersa firm though twisted grip , funny words , a twinkle in the eye .
fflowers charmed like he had eighty years before when , penniless , he had sought to loosen any number of purse strings to pursue his mad idea .
as they shuffled forward along the slow moving line , prissi studied the famous old man while jack told her how close he was to one of the worlds three trillionaires .
jack spent a lot of time at the airie , fflowers manhattan penthouse at the southern end of central park on the plaza plaza .
jack had traveled to europe and russasia with his grandfather during school and summer breaks while it still had been relatively easy for the old man to travel .
jack amused the wealthy old man .
although she had no reason to doubt jack , from the physical changes she was watching unfold on the old mans face , prissi was sure that jacks relationship with joshua fflowers must be much more complicated than he was letting on .
as they had advanced in the line , prissi had been watching the icon of fledging , the most famous scienpreneur of the century .
he had been bored , then , after he had seen jack coming his way , he had become more animated .
suddenly , the trillionaire had become extremely agitated .
his head was bobbing and twitching , and prissi was sure she could see a tremor in his hands .
the curve of his mouth changed so that the smile became a rictus .
turning her mouth toward jacks ear , prissi whispered , is this going to be okay ?
yeah .
why ?
look .
he seems epic upset .
jack looked , then , laughed , probably just frantic that its taking so long to see me .
when prissi stepped hard on his foot , jack continued , or besotted by your beauty .
jack , be serious .
look .
he looks horrible .
he could cpuke in a second .
in a different , less current language , fflowers was thinking many of the same thoughts as prissi .
he thought what black humored poetic justice it would be if he were to die , his central processor apoplectic , at the dedication of a building he had endowed with the sole thought of nurturing students whose brains were capable of re discovering something miraculous he had caused to be lost so many years before .
what greek theater it would be , if , at the moment of his death , he should be brought back together with the person no , it couldnt be the person , but a startling mirror image of the person , one of three , who had wrought the centurys greatest miracle , and wrestled it into the light before slamming it back into the ignorant dark .
despite the press of bodies and wheedling voices around him , joshua fflowers could not take his eyes off the girl talking with jack .
moving along with the shuffling sycophants , laughing with his grandson , was a girl who looked how elena howe , his wife , muse , science partner , and enemy looked when she was fifteen .
the girls impossible resemblance to elena squeezed the insides of joshua fflowers like a heart attack .
this doppelganger could not be by chance .
somehow , this impossible girl had to share most of elenas double helix , but how ?
could she be elenas daughter ?
impossible .
rapacious fate struck twice had taken away that option .
could she be a niece ?
impossible .
elena had had a sistermorgana .
but , she must be dead thirty years by now .
could she be a grand niece and look that much like her ?
impossible .
a daughter that couldnt be .
a niece that couldnt be .
the girl looked too much like elena to be anything else but a clone .
but , how ?
and , why ?
why now ?
why here with jack ?
as the guests in the line shambled along , like refugees from a war zone , joshua fflowers pondered .
he and elena had never had children .
that was a decision , strictly a temporary decision by fflowers , to which elena reluctantly had agreed .
he had argued that they were too caught up in changing the world with wings .
children could come later .
of course , they had hedged their bets with frozen eggs and seed .
that had been a prescient move given that elena was to fight ovarian cancer before she was thirty five .
but , the eggs had been stored at the lab where the research for the centsurety project had been entering the final stages .
the eggs , the knowledge and processes of centsuretys world altering discovery , and worst of all , elena herself had been lost to him in the explosion which destroyed the lab .
as he had a thousand times over the last fifty years , fflowers clamped his jaws tight to keep from wailing .
by the time jack and prissi had their turn , joshua fflowers had recovered enough of his equanimity that he could do his midas and merlin imitations without a misstep .
from two steps away , the girl , whom jack introduced as prissi langue , even more closely resembled elenathe slight epicanthal folds that gave the eyes their almond shape , the almond theme continued with the shoshone skull , the slight creases , eczema markers , under the venus bright eyes , the long neck , an elegant stem for what fflowers suspected would be a head overflowing with intelligence and derring do .
the girl was so much like elena that he had a barely resistible urge to ask her to take off her shoes to see if she had elongated toes with the little ones turned nearly sideways .
joshua fflowers held his grandsons hand as jack introduced prissi .
mz .
langue , my pleasure .
have you a chaperone to protect yourself from my jack of all traits , bad traits ?
when the old man winked at her , prissi felt an instant freedom .
she shook her head , no , sir .
no chaperone .
just my rapier tongue and duttons shield of honor .
the old man growled in pleasure like a dog getting its ears scratched .
he felt like he had been yanked back eighty years to those halcyon days when elena howe and he first met as post doc students at cold spring harbor .
joshua fflowers had rarely slept when he was a young man .
he had felt that he had no time to waste in sleep .
but , he had spent thousands upon thousands of hours in bed thinking and , in a whisper , recording those thoughts into his mypod with the serenely sleeping elena alongside .
in those hours , as he had studied her face in the silver of moon glow or the amber of street light , he had done what he considered to be his best thinkinghow to give freedom to humankind and how to cripple those who stood in his way .
as he had thought the thoughts that changed the world , he had studied elenas face pore by porcelain pore .
now , from a meter away , fflowers had no doubt that by some mystery , which he swore he would unravel , the face before him , this wonderful , wily , intrigued , intriguing , bright , never to be expected face , was , somehow , protein of elenas protein .
langue ?
are you french ?
langue is french for tongue and the root of the word language .
no , sir .
im from africa .
no french there in quite awhile .
the old man tipped his head as he considered that piece of information .
and how did you end up at dutton ?
are you a legacy student ?
no , sir .
my mother died and my father moved us to new york .
after we were here awhile , he decided that i could get a better education if i went to boarding school .
jack interjected , well thats trueif youre smart enough to go to the right boarding school .
joshua fflowers held up a hand to stop jack , and , are you getting a better education ?
prissi nodded her head vigorously , dr. smarkzy is one of my teachers .
then , you are .
then , you certainly are .
as he continued to talk to jack and the girl , joshua fflowers could feel the force of the receiving line grow , like water building behind a dam .
on a powerful whim , he decided he could get to the institute even later than he already was going to be .
organ preservation had come a long way .
he asked jack and prissi to have dinner with him .
when the girl declined , saying that she had to get back to dutton , the centenarian felt the rejection as sharply as a high school boy .
a minute later the teenerz said their goodbyesjack with a hug and the girl with a wide , but enigmatic smileand hurried off .
once they were gone , a distracted joshua fflowers hurriedly fed the egos of the rest of the hungering parade .
as binny dowdahl accompanied him to the roto , joshua fflowers rattled off a dozen questions about jack , prissi , and jack and prissi .
dowdahl had the right answers about jack , knew nothing of prissi as she wasnt a bissell student , and raised his eyebrows until they resembled the st. louis arch as answer about the two of them .
when fflowers asked him to find out what he could , bissells headmaster and chief myrmidon nodded eagerly .
as soon as the wheelchair was locked in place and the rotos blades were spinning , the trillionaire began ogling prissi langue and her family .
by the time he landed at the juvenal institute , his biggest finding was how little he was able to discover , despite access to innumerable interlocked databases and a host of search engines , about prissi langue and her parents .
however , fflowers was still far too much the scientist to be stymied by initial failure .
he knew that as soon as his rejuve surgeries were over , he would be back on the trail .
he had no choice .
he had to know about the girl .
as joshua fflowers considered who and what prissi might be , he necessarily thought about his two sons .
even as he was prepped by a host of nurses to receive his new parts , he reviewed for the millionth time how those two sons were the unfathomable punishment he had paid for a well intentioned act .
two years after the centsurety lab explosion , in an effort to relieve his pain and divert his anger , fflowers had had his seed mated with elenas eggs .
adaman had been the result .
from the moment of his birth , fflowers had felt that the son was nothing like the mother , nor the father .
he neither looked like theman outcome which belied the supposed advances in genetic engineeringnor did he act like them .
by the time adaman was two , joshua fflowers learned why .
he had thrown the die and lostbecause the die had been loaded .
the egg that had been fertilized with his sperm had not been harvested from elenas ovaries .
a dna scan had revealed that .
months of investigations as to who was the source of the egg resulted in nothing but dead ends .
knowing that elena had switched eggs on him finally brought full force to fflowers how much she despised him .
as adanan grew into a snarky , oily , needy boy , fflowers revulsion grew alongside .
finally , since he could not change his feelings , he tried to change the paradigm by having a second son .
fflowers was fifty seven when he grew a second son from an egg that had been carefully considered and even more carefully tested .
the result , illiya , was somewhat more to his likingat first .
even before the arrival of illiya , fflowers could not think of adaman as his real son .
the boy was a burden , a disappointment , even his heir , but not his son .
night after night , fflowers would wander through the dozens of rooms of the airie , which felt twice as big and frighteningly empty since elena had gone , and consider the child whom he and elena could have , and he had convinced himself , would have made .
a child more like elena and less like himself .
in the late night chiaroscuro made by the swirling beams of winger beacons , hawks roto searchlights and the spatter of late night revelers erratically weaving flight lights , fflowers would walk his own personal stations of the cross .
the high ceilinged library , crammed with science and myth , where over and over he had insisted to the doubting elena that they were too young and their lives too full to have childrenyet .
the baronial dining room where elena first had mentioned in passing the anomalous results of her pap exam .
the statuary gallery , at that time his sanctorum , the place where he first had had the idea for the centsurety project .
the parterre , with its central allee lined with marble and alabaster imaginings of all the forms the gods had left undone .
the parterre , where the best and worst of his memories had been born .
fflowers looked past the flurry of hands preparing him for his rejuve .
.it had been on starry night in late winter , just before the ides of march , in the parterre which was filled with art and flowers , that a sleepless joshua fflowers had had the idea for the very best present he could give to elena for her forty fifth birthday .
it was a time of congruence .
things long worked for were falling into place .
finally , after fifteen years , the china market was exploding .
cygnetics just had reported record quarterly earnings for the twentieth time in a row .
the delayed fledging process had been making remarkable progress .
after a dozen tries , the special embryos of the centsurety project , still no bigger than beans , seemed to be thriving .
it was time for him to give elena her wings .
it was not that he had had no doubts about his gift .
after all , the wings would be grafted , not grown .
and elena , who had helped millions to fly , had never expressed her own desire to fly .
soon after elenas battle with ovarian cancer and resultant hysterectomy eight years before , fflowers had argued with her to get wings as a balm to her wounds , but she had wanted nothing to do with it .
rather than flying in an empty sky , she preferred to lose herself in work .
at the time , fflowers had heard his wifes wishes , but he hadnt believed them .
there had been too many other times when elenas initial resistance later had turned to acceptance .
fflowers had convinced himself that , once the gift was made , elena would be immensely grateful that he had taken the initiative .
but , elena had not been grateful .
she had been horrified .
and as her revenge , she had left and taken all of her , and so much of him , from him .
he had been left with an incurable emptiness , and progeny he could not own within his heart .
now , with the appearance of the girl , who , in some miraculous way , must be egg of elenas egg , the girl who had conjured herself at this auspicious moment , fflowers knew that he was about to be rejuvenated in both body and soul .
as he was wheeled into the surgery , joshua fflowers was more hopeful and more excited than he had been in more than fifty years .
fate had come round .
he was forgiven .
seventy two hours later , a half dozen slight sighs away from death because of a rejected liver split and a pancreatic transplant gone spectacularly wrong , hope and promise as well as any interest in prissi langue , her history and kin , were far removed from joshua fflowers guttering thoughts .
chapter six lost paths as he lay dying , joshua fflowers could not pursue his interest in prissi , but the same could not be said of prissis interest in joshua fflowers .
the day after the bissell dedication , prissi , along with a scattering of students and a smattering of dutton faculty had listened while vartan smarkzy had given a sunday series lecture called false paths .
smarkzys talk focused on some of the heralded scientific theories or paradigms which had led to little or nothinghumouristic medicine , a geo centric solar system , alchemy , the id ego superego trinity , and dark matter .
after the lecture , on a beautiful balmy afternoon with a soughing wind and dumpling clouds , prissi was taking a necessarily slow walk across campus with dr. smarkzyslow both because of her teachers infirmities and because prissi herself was still sore from hurting her shoulder the day before .
smarkzy was adding to the false paths he had mentioned in his lecturephrenology , natural design .
prissi was listening but she also was feeling a sense of loss because spring break was to start in just two more days .
even though she would be relieved to get through the rush of work dutton teachers assigned to be due just before break , if she couldnt be out of the country vacationing on an island as seemingly most of her friends were scheduled to do , then prissi would rather be at dutton than home .
although it was almost three years since her mother had died , prissi thought that her father now was even more wounded by grief rather than in the days and weeks immediately following the accident .
from prissis view , the time healing all anodyne wasnt working for beryl langue .
noticing that prissi was favoring her shoulder , smarkzy gently tapped it this , this whole process of fledgingthe meta mutancy , the timing , and the intricate biochemical processes also might prove to be a false path .
intrigued with the man she had met yesterday who had discovered the process that allowed fledging , and interested that there might be a better way to accomplish the transformation she had undergone the year before , prissi asked , why ?
we fledge .
we fly .
whats wrong ?
smarkzys gnarled hands did a tortured pas de deux in the air .
well , perhaps its not so much a wrong path as a less than optimum path .
a young person or that persons parents must decide whether to have wings at a period in life when much , if not most , is still in shadows .
the wings one chooses may not fit what one becomes .
in other words , the wings choose the life rather than the life choosing the wings .
how many thousands , if not millions , of people lose ten , twenty or more years of flying because they have a mis match between wing style and somatotype ?
eons ago , in my fabled youth , i was asked to help out with did some interesting work being done by a former student of mine .
she was working with a group that was being funded by a well known scienpreneur , one whose acquaintance you recently made .
joshua fflowers .
with his head so big , his body so frail , and his balance suspect , prissi tentatively held out a hand when her teacher began vigorously bobbing that head .
although , at the time , as a field of study , meta mutancy was more than twenty five years old , most of the theorizing still ran down just one , albeit admittedly somewhat wide , path .
joshua fflowers was already famous , honored and immensely rich .
but , if you knew josh as i did , you would know that wouldnt be enough .
he was driven to do more than he already had donewhich was no less than the gift of flight to mankindif gift it truly be .
after a pause , smarkzy chuckled , to wealthy mankind , anyway .
from what my former student told me , my old classmate was frustrated , pent up .
he was driven to go someplace new and excitingperhaps akin to the irresistible force that drove the 15th century explorers .
i could understand this because he and i had been fair friends when we were at bissell together .
im not sure ive ever met a more driven manand , my dear young lady , ive known a few nobelists as well as many duttonians in my many years .
he nodded in thanks at prissis snort .
that distinguished bissell alumnus put together a group of peoplea group of scientistsvery bright , very well educated , but , unfortunately , not well socialized to the norms and rules of mainstream sciencea group the likes of which probably had not been seen since josiah wedgwood , newton and their group , or , perhaps , the oppenheimer team .
smarkzy stopped dead in his tracks and rubbed the slight stubble that rimed his chin .
hmmm .
thats a new thought .
fflowers might even have seen himself as oppenheimeryou know of robert oppenheimer , the father of the manhattan project a brilliant physicist and an even more brilliant strategist , administrator and motivator ?
when prissi shrugged , smarkzy mimicked her .
no ?
well , thats a pity .
id say hes well worth a looka long look .
my former schoolmate brought together a collection of people who were almost guaranteed to do brilliant science .
but , it was almost as sure a bet that the light they brought to their work would be outshone by the light and heat of their personal frictions .
i remember roan , that was the name of my student , described it once as a place where big , bright labs were filled with bigger , brighter egos .
they came together at a place fflowers had built just outside the research center at cold spring harbor on long islanda hallowed place where some very serious science , including , perhaps , some of my own , had been getting done for many , many years .
fflowers drew them in with a dream , fabulous tools , gave them long leashes and lots of moneyall of which comes very close to a scientists definition of paradise .
and ?
and ?
rather than show her pique , prissi smiled , what happened ?
actually , no one seems to be quite sure what happened .
my friend broke a very serious oath of secrecy to tell me that the group , or a portion of the group of which she was an integral part , had made a very important discovery .
but what that discovery was i surmised but never really knew for sure .
soon after , there was a disaster , an explosion .
the work was lost the scientists dispersed .
prissis eyes glowed like a dwarf star with interest .
a lost , rather than false , path ?
smarkzys eyes twinkled , yes , an apt description .
like a lost treasure ?
smarkzys head snapped around to look at prissi .
why would you say that ?
prissis hand fluttered as she talked .
because there was a major discovery .
and , somehow , it was lost .
i wonder what it was .
you seem intrigued .
i am .
the old man stood lost in thought for several moments before he held out his crippled hands , studied them and , then , reached out and touched prissis shoulders .
when he spoke his voice seemed to prissi to be coming from a space farther than a step away .
well , youth is a time for great enthusiasms , but , unfortunately , here , at dutton , we purposefully leave you very little time to pursue those enthusiasms .
hmmmwhy dont we do this .
see if your interest in this lost path waxes or wanes over the next few months .
if you have a spare moment over spring break , do a little preliminary poking around .
if , when you return , you want to pursue this , ill try to help you out .
but .
the old man stopped .
but what ?
butplease keep your interest quietnoforget i said that .
prissi was unclear what she was supposed to forgetand why .
dr. smarkzy took his hands from prissis shoulders and began to walk .
in a voice not much more than a whisper , the old man said , my experience is that young people are easily attracted to science with a capital s however once they do science , with a lower case s , many are quickly dissuaded .
the essence of science is frustration , and if you decide to go forward , you may and should expect to find your own endeavors frequently frustrated .
there very likely was no major discovery .
and that is why it has remained dusty on a shelf for so long .
but , who knows ?
you live in new york , if i remember ?
prissi nodded .
the new york public datarium has an immense collection of fflowers early papers , papers which he graciously donated at the time he gave the billions to have the building renovated .
they are not open to the public , buthmmmpequodan old colleague , now a research librarianhe mighti suppose i might be able to help you get some access to those , or , if i get the urge to come to the late great metropolis , i might poke around a bit myself .
seeing my old school mate yesterday has stirred my juices a bit .
there were a number of stories started back then that never were finished to this readers satisfaction .
hmmm .
could you ask your friend ?
yes , ill see if we can get you a peek .
no , the other one .
the one whom you said i remind you of .
the old mans head tilted far back and , again , prissi threw out a hand in support .
he stared at the flock of docile clouds overhead for the longest time .
roan winslow .
another lost path .
with the accident , my friend smarkzy waved his hand as if dispersing a cigarettes smoke .
disappeared .
unlike what would be true for most fifteen year old girls , any and all thought of pursuing the mystery of the lost path did not disappear from prissis mind an hour after leaving dr. smarkzy .
in fact , her new found interest made her eager to finish up and go homewell , not exactly home , but to the new york public datarium .
since her arrival in manhattan , the nypd had been one of the teeners favorite haunts .
having an excuse to go there and having a mystery to solve took away much of the dread of spending three long , slow silent weeks with her father .
as prissi walked back to her dorm the energy that had been generated by her talk with dr. smarkzy had quickly drained away as she thought of how her father had always been thoughtful , caring , polite , but he never had been talkative , clever or entertaining , like dr. smarkzy and joshua fflowers .
the daughter had accepted her father as he was until the previous summer .
after nine months of living on a campus filled with bright adults and , in her opinion , brighter teenerz saying clever things in machine gun fashion , after a thousand quick contests of quick wits , like cat fights with words , prissi had found spending much time with a very nice , but distant , dogged parent to be beyond dull .
prissis emotions made her feel both disloyal and guilty .
her father seemed bored doing whatever he was doing .
he never talked about work , and that was how his daughter knew that it didnt engage him like his re gen work in africa .
what made it worse for prissi was that she assumed most of the money he made doing what he didnt like doing was being handed over to dutton .
even without his saying a word , that guilted her .
by the end of the previous summer , her fathers emotional state reminded prissi of an accident victim wandering around in a stupor .
in fact , she often imagined that both he and her mother had been in the truclet .
her mother had died .
her father had survived , but barely .
he was in shock .
he needed help .
and , she hated herself for feeling that the role of savior should be played by someone other than herself .
now , instead of spending the three weeks of break flying over the skies of manhattan until she could fly no more and had to come home , prissi langue had a goal , a mystery , to keep her going .
her father might be dull , but the intrigued teener was sure joshua fflowers and the secret of the lost path was not .
chapter seven so long on the monday afternoon after her conversation with dr. smarkzy , prissi was in the double d trying to write a history paper .
even though it was early in the afternoon , the young winger was tired and antsy .
break would begin at noon on the following day .
now that she had something to do over break , prissi was ready to go .
unfortunately , before that could happen , she had a lot of work to finish up .
prissi began the afternoon sitting on one of a bank of skrenes the dutton datarium provided trying to draw parallels between present day ecoists and the centuries old jainist religious sect .
her intention was to suggest that ecoism was more a religious sect than a political party .
she sat at the machine for almost an hour watching her whispered words get transcribed onto the skrene as jumbled words , illogical sentences and incomprehensible paragraphs .
finally , unable to take another minute , she bounded off her perch .
as she hurried to the bathroom , she resurrected a litany that occasionally accompanied her paper writing she was stupid , a sham .
a dorquette .
a brain dead techineptandas she slammed her way past the door and looked into the mirror.and a fertile field for unnatural growthsandand she should shave her head rather than let her toxic hair spreadand .
her fury at her incoherence and her imperfect looks elided into sensual pleasure when she finally had the brainstorm not to return to her perch , but instead to dig in her kanga pak for her special pen .
she collected her stuff and found a spot in the reading area that had a view of the pond .
she dropped her wings over the arms and slid her butt deep into the butter smooth russet colored leather of an ancient high legged club perch .
within seconds after changing perches and idea recorders , prissis thoughts were flowing so fast that the tool she held in her hand for recording those thoughts could barely keep up .
the ancient golden fountain pen had been given to her by a retired diplomat in bujumbura on her tenth birthday .
even as it hurried across the paper , the pen was losing ground to her spate of thoughts .
that feeling , of thoughts spilling out faster than the ink could record them , was glorious to someone whose writing usually was laborious .
finally , there came a break in prissis stream of ideas .
the self satisfied teener took advantage of that synaptical short circuit to glance out the windows at the rippling waters of the pond and look up at a bowl of puffy popcorn like clouds , iridescent above and dark gray beneath , being blown across the sky .
forty minutes later , when prissi paused a second time , the clouds looked like inquisitive sheep .
after an hour and a half of dedicated work , and with nine pages of words and ideas that made sense to her , prissi redacted her earlier view of herself .
even if she was a techinept , she had lots of friends who were techadepts .
she got along with them fine even if she wasnt onemaybe that was from growing up in africa , where a whole night of uninterrupted electricity was cause for celebration .
as prissi flipped through what she had written , she reassured herself that most of the worlds great literature and , for that matter , the foundation of most of the sciences , had been created with pen and paper , quill and vellum .
as she often did with words that drew her , prissi said the word , vellum , aloud .
she imagined what a piece of that old invention must feel like between ones fingers .
just the name suggested how smooth and sensuous it must be .
what fun it would be to draw a pen nib across a piece of vellum .
voluptuous vellum .
prissi mused about being in an alchemists laboratory , literally burning the midnight oil , mixing philters with phlogiston and recording the results on velvety , voluptuous vellum .
when prissi next looked up from her reverie , an angry wind had pushed the sheep into a tightly huddled frightened herd .
she shifted from her history paper to a set of bio stat problems , but despite the urgency of getting the homework done , prissi kept finding herself looking out the large windows to see if the predicted snow had begun to fall .
the ice age cometh .
prissi forced her head down .
a few minutes later , when , despite her best efforts , it popped up again , prissi noticed a pair of state hawks circling over campus .
besides wondering what might cause the police to be on campus , prissi also felt jealous .
flying through the snow was a rare treat .
something mysterious , something attractive .
ugh .
she forced her eyes back down to her work .
the eyes remained where they were supposed to be , but the mind continued to wanderalthough there were scores of teenerz from some of the worlds wealthiest families , security at dutton was mostly handled by the campus officers .
only a handful of students were considered so attractive a target that their parents hired private security firms .
when the hawks from the connecticut state police became involved it usually wasnt because of a danger to a student , but , instead , because of some incredibly stupid prank by a studentusually a lower mid trying to make his reputation , or a senior losing his .
prissi was sprawled in her reclining perch feeling good , except for the occasional late afternoon stomach growl when nasty nancy , whom she had been trying to avoid since their ride back from the bissell dedication , came rushing up .
did you hear ?
your nqb is gone ?
prissis stomach rolled over , but not from hunger .
joes gone ?
like smoke .
like youth .
like love .
like a friday night peetsa .
although prissi prided herself on her cynicism , she immediately felt angry at nasty nancys cavalier words .
her roomies large head , made larger by its penumbra of combed out , frizzy , red hair , bobbed back and forth with excitement .
her little black soutane button eyes sparked .
controlling herself , prissi asked , what do they think happened ?
the they who are supposed to do the thinking in , and for , this hallowed institution probably arent thinking .
what theyre probably doing is emitting excuses as fast , big and stinking as pigs farts and dishonoring our sacred honor code by conjuring up a thousand ex post facto gigs for your missing swain to show he has been a bad seed , a bad apple and a bader meinhof neer do well .
since prissi was used to missing half of nancys allusions , she sniggered because she knew she should , then , felt badly that she had given in to nancys cruelty .
no one knows anything ?
the serious tone of prissis question caused nasty nancy to tack away from her intended course .
she looked at her friends concerned face for a long pause , considering what it might mean , before responding .
supposedly , he ate breakfast and that was the last time he was seen .
since it happened on a day without classes , when he wouldnt be missed for awhile , it looks like it was planned .
the mystery is whose plan .
hisdash for freedom , or .
nancy paused and tried to wriggle her eyebrows , an action which conveyed more the look of someone with tourettes syndrome than the portentousness she was aiming for .
something more malign .
why someone from a family that rich and with so many enemies didnt have private guards is hard to fathom .
he told me he had to fight his parents about that .
he didnt want guards .
he just wanted to be normal .
then he should have done something about that sun seeking nose of his and , of course , the trillions .
rather than chance an argument , prissi brushed nancy off by insisting that she needed to finish her problem set .
nancy spun around .
with her halo of red hair , blunt shape and butt swaying walk , nancy reminded prissi of a sea anemone in a tidal pool as she churned her way out of the room .
once nancy was gone , prissi allowed herself to be overwhelmed with guilt .
since that evening three days before when she had shared her dining hall table with him , prissi had had three conversations with joe .
two of those , one late and the other later on saturday night after she had returned from the bissell dedication , had been short , angry and awkward .
joe had been iced that prissi had gone to bissell .
he saw it as both a betrayal of their friendship and an act of sycophancy .
their third conversation , held the following day , had lasted for more than two hours and had been very different .
that chance conversation happened because prissi langue had secrets other than eating candy in bathroom stalls and filching shampoo .
she also adored what she herself called crnscheesey romance novels .
prissi had been wandering around the antiseptic little village of waterville on a sunday afternoon a few weeks after she first had arrived at dutton .
it had been a typical new england early autumn day80 degrees , windy , the grapy smell of kudzu perfuming the air .
even though she loved the school , loved her teachers and loved the challenge of what went on in the classrooms and labs , prissi frequently was intimidated by much of went on outside the classroom .
on that particular afternoon , instead of sitting in her room working through why she felt inferior to her classmates , or couldnt easily make friends , it had been easier to run down the hill to the village .
she had lazed along watervilles narrow canted sidewalks window shopping its small shops , coveting clothes that she knew never would look good on her , and admiring jewelry she couldnt afford .
she drank an iced pom and wolfed a ridiculously small piece of chocolate mousse cake .
she was on her way back to campus , dawdling to draw out her return , when she noticed the small , square shouldered waterville library .
although the rise of the net had made most small libraries obsolete , a few , mostly those with hefty endowments , remained open .
of those survivors , many were more museums that repositories for accessible or pertinent knowledge .
on a whim , prissi climbed the stairs .
after spending an embarrassing minute explaining to the tiny , bright blue eyed , balding woman sitting on a high scarred wooden stool that she , prissi langue , was , indeed , a dutton student , she had accepted the librarian docent guards declaratory judgment that , indeed , a dutton student in the waterville library was a rarity .
after circling round the chipped green marble half moon desk , which both protected the past and , prissi guessed , defended the old woman against the present , the teener began to explore .
twisting her head so that she could read the vertical titles and tentatively touching a dulled rainbow of book spines , prissi meandered through the stacks .
in a dark corner on the second floor , next to a door marked stairs , fitted into a corner in an l shaped bookcase , prissi found the mother lode .
a fancy , but faded sign , declared romance .
prissis first reaction was a snort that reverberated throughout the empty library , but , ten minutes later , she was sighing and crying .
the bookcase contained hundreds of books that told the story of improbable women falling impossibly in love with implausible men .
and , while it was not always love at first sight between the covers of the books , it had been love at first sight for prissi .
she loved the women from the pre winger era who had enough flesh that it could quiver .
she swooned over the men too dumb to know that they shouldnt be driving fast cars with deleterious eco effects .
she adored the fact that many of the stories took place in a place long gonea dry , bustling wealthy , hyper kinetic manhattan , a romantic island filled with sex and sin .
almost everything she read , she loved , but the books that she most loved were those written in the 1950s when all the characters had names like her own and her friends .
she found story after story where jacks and joes , nancys and marys , pauls and marks , cathys and , yes , twice , even priscillas fell in deep , tortured , twisted , weepy , wounded love .
that dusty corner of the waterville library became prissis haven .
when she had free time or , even when she didnt , but needed a respitefrom friends , teachers , or , most often , her feelingsprissi she would run down the hill to the library for her crn fix .
as prissi slumped in her perch and watched the celestial sheep crowd one another like a fox was about , she thought of what had happened twenty four hours before .
after the last false paths lecture and her conversation with dr. smarkzy , prissi had run back to her room , changed clothes , and spent twenty minutes flying lazy figure eights over duttons golf course and soccer fields before winging her way to the village .
after checking to see if anyone was watching before attempting a maneuver that could result in losing her flight license , prissi executed a doubly foolish , given saturdays shoulder injury , perfect one knee betrothal landing on the librarys cracked asphalt parking lot .
prissi was smoothing her feathers when joe fflowers exploded out of the librarys dismal , dinged metal and scratched glass entrance .
he started when he saw prissi , stuttered , and stopped .
after several minutes of mis meshed verbal gears grinding through saturdays traitorous events , including a stuttery apology by prissi , the two teenerz finally found their usual edgy comfortability .
they talked and talked , as if they hadnt seen each other for agesor , as if they expected that they wouldnt see each other again .
goals , god , games , and music .
love , lust , loss , and movies .
family , fear , faith , failure , foodand the future .
when it was time to go back to campus , prissi started to walk alongside joe , but he held her shoulder and , then , turned her so her back was against the shelves of romance novels .
he put one hand on her waist and the other just under prissis chin .
like always , like dozens of times before in empty classrooms , by the pond , under a stairwell , hidden behind the rhododendrons outside the mu , the first kiss felt wonderful .
tingly .
the second , much longer , started as an area of wet warmth around her mouth but then zipped around her body flipping on banks of switches like a pilot readying a jet for takeoff .
the third kiss involved low growls and prissi wasnt sure who was making them .
but , then the tongue that had been around her mouth and in her mouth was in her mouth and out and in again , so rapidly , so hungrily , and so fiercely that prissi had a vision of a rat in a popcorn bag .
that vision led to a snort , a push against joes chest , and , suddenly , wordlessly , he was gone .
after joe left prissi pulled books from the shelves , studied their covers , read their steamy blurbs and wondered what was wrong with her .
when her eyes began to blink in a desperate attempt to stop whatever was trying to occur , she hurried outside and launched herself into the air .
her muscles ached as she flapped hard to achieve altitude .
by the time her mypod showed one hundred meters , prissi was high enough that she could see joe racing up the hill toward the school .
although from her height and his distance , joe looked small , his presence tugged at her like the draw of a black hole .
the frustrated girl shouted to the wind at how stupid she had been to succumb to jack fflowers slippery charm and how stupid she was to push joes amateur affections away .
now , on monday afternoon , with six matrix algebra problems still to be solved , prissi stared out of the window and wondered what might have happened to joe .
her concentration was such that it took her several minutes to realize that a scattering of snow flakes had turned into a storm .
being careful not to harm her wings , she pushed herself up from the leather perch .
she stood at the window and marveled at the large flakes , like a billion albino spiders , scurrying down from the sky .
snow in southern new england , even in the dead of winter , was a rarity .
to have snow three times in march was unseen and unheard of in the last fifty years .
prissis thoughts turned from joe to the recently reported possibility that a decline in green house gasses was leading to a new ice age .
she stared with her nose pressed to the glass thinking of an icy worldflying in rain , which turned to ice , which caused her to plummet as her wings froze and faltered .
as she watched , the storm strengthened and the snow began to swirl , eddy , cling and cover .
staring at the dervish flakes , prissi wondered if joe was out in the storm .
she worried at the danger he could be in until she suddenly realized that if joe had disappeared for the reason she guessed , the snow would be a help in his escape .
in their talk the previous day , joe had given her all of the details of how he had scored a hat trick in the game against choate on saturday afternoon .
he had continued with how much he loved the speed , the lack of friction , the intensity of the play .
he liked the feeling of holding nothing back .
he anticipated the split second when a moment of incredible physical grace was summarily stopped by an act of explosive violence .
he told prissi how he had absolutely crushed choates leading scorer twice on the boards the day before .
when prissi suggested for the tenth time that joe could keep playing hockey even after he fledged , he told her he had no interest in winger hockey .
they played on ice with sticks and a puck , but it was too slow and too dull .
with wings , there could be no checking .
when she insisted that he was going to have to make the change , he looked at her for a moment before dropping his eyes to stare at the hands clasped in his lap .
after a long pause and without looking back up , joe said that he was thinking of delaying his fledging .
he had heard that there was a way .
a way to delay .
play now .
fly later .
looking out the window as the tumble of flakes , prissi became embarrassed a second time as she remembered how , when joe had brought up delayed fledging , her snort had shot something wet against the stairs door .
her voice had risen as she told joe that he already was pushing the edge as much as he safely could .
there was no way for him to delay further .
if he didnt fledge soon , the window closed forever .
prissi reminded joe that no one in his family was going to allow him to get away with that .
a walker in the family that invented fledging .
that couldnt be .
when prissi started to press him even harder , joe closed his face .
as her bright , celadon flecked eyes gawked at the cascade of flakes , the agitated teener tried to recall joes exact words .
after thinking about it , she was sure he had used the word delay .
looking out at the sculpting of the groomed lawn as it became covered in snow , prissi wished joe well , but bet against him hiding safely long enough to get past the fledging window .
she guessed that , if he had run away , he would be caught that day .
any kid whose parents had the money was i tagged .
three hawkers would fly a grid with their transmitters and receivers .
theyd home in on joes signal , triangulate the results , swoop down , make the catch , and pass him off to his parents and let them turn the key .
unlessunless he had a lot of help in getting someplace where it was hard for the hawkers to fly , somewhere the i tags signals would be blocked .
prissi shook her head .
joes chances for escape were less than her chances of fitting into a size two glass slippersor , dambit , dress .
suddenly , prissi whirled away from the window .
she grabbed her things and hurried outside to catch snowflakes on her wings .
doing that would be easier than working through the question that had just come to her .
did any of joes motivation to run away come from anger or disappointment at her ?
for betraying him with jack ?
rejecting his kisses ?
prissi dropped her bag in the snow and , uncaring of how many gigs it would cost her for flying over campus on a school day , flapped hard and flew fast toward the west , into the heart of the storm .
chapter eight sticks and stones two hundred kilometers to the north , in an unending , unbroken adirondack mountain forest , fifteen year old joe fflowers swears as he slips and falls in the new snow .
rubbing his arm where it has struck an up thrust of rock hidden alongside the overgrown path , he takes advantage of the moment to take a deep breath .
he is still on his knees when , from ten meters feet ahead , his guide , seka , imperiously barks , cmon .
hurry up .
i dont want to use the lumenaids .
in the growing gloam , joe pats his aching hands together to remove the snow and catch his breath .
adrona , his other guide , coming up the trail behind him , taps his hip with a walking stick .
hurry , hurry .
we want to be undercover before hawks fly .
how much farther ?
wishing for wings ?
despite the twelve hours a week that joe spends training with the hockey team , his chest aches from the pace they have been keeping .
his knee has grown much worse .
as planned , joe walks away from the dutton school just before lunch .
his rendezvous with his railroader in a little used parking lot behind the waterville fire department building goes smoothly .
the railroader puts him inside a kafir board tool box that takes up most of the bed of what jack guesses is a 2050 vintage truclet .
the vehicle whines and groans as its tiny electric motor climbs through the hills of northwest connecticut , then screams in outraged protest as it fights its way through the higher elevations of the new york mountains .
since the truclet has almost no springs left and his railroader hasnt thought to put anything soft in the box , joe bounces around throughout the trip .
the farther north they go , the worse the roads become .
joe is twisting around trying to make himself more comfortable when the driver hits a huge rut .
joe flies through the air and smashes his head against a corner of the box .
when he comes back down , his left leg twists under him .
his knee pops .
after four hours , a cold , bruised joe , with a throbbing knee , is helped from his hiding place .
two people dressed in well worn green microx are waiting in the shadows of an enormous fir tree .
joe guesses the older of the two , whom the truclet driver calls seka , to be over two meters tall and weigh upward of eighty kilograms .
a small head with red leather cheeks , jewel like blue eyes and an ospreys nest of white hair , nods at the introduction .
the second guide , adrona , is less man than boy .
joe thinks that he might be no more than two or three years older than joe himselfcertainly no more than twenty .
his hair is as unkempt as sekas , but it is reddish gold .
the piercing blue eyes are the same .
joes driver points , seka will take you from here , he extends his knuckles as he says solemnly , stars aligned .
an embarrassed joe taps the outstretched knuckles with his own and mutters , stars benign .
the railroader leaps toward the truclet as the runaway hurriedly settles his pak on his shoulders before running under the protection of the thick boughs of the forest .
seka hands joe a satin smooth , knobbed walking stick before jogging up a steep hill through a dense forest of tall , scarred white pine and hemlock .
the thick layer of pine needles beneath their feet muffles the sounds of their passing .
at first , the cushion of needles seems to lessen the pain pulsing in joes knee however as they continue to climb through the clean smelling woods , the flagging boy realizes that the give of the needles is wearing him out just like a walk in deep snow .
near the crest of the hill , the trees begin to thin .
seka stays ten meters below the ridgeline and begins to move laterally .
within minutes , the added pressure from running along the canted land causes joe to slow and , finally , to stop .
as the escapee leans over to rub his kneecap , which feels like its been put on upside down , adrona taps his spine .
jump .
an angry joe pushes the stick away .
what ?
jump the pain .
people think pain is a wall .
its not .
its a fence .
jump it .
from a few paces ahead , the sound of sekas walking stick being quickly rapped on a tree reminds joe of the way coach deirken pounds his hockey stick to get the team to skate faster in the ice rink .
despite the incentive , joe doesnt move .
adrona makes a sound of disgust and moves off .
joe kneels on his good knee as he watches them hurrying away through the woods .
for a moment , his anger and defiance convince him to let them go , but , as soon as his guides backs disappear from view , the satisfaction fades and the fear of being lost in the woods forces joe to his feet .
as he begins limping after his keepers , the boy thinks of how , if he had wings , he could fly out of the forest to safety .
that thought confuses him .
twenty minutes later , the wind picks up .
it tries to free itself of the snow it is carrying by darting left and right , up and down , swirling around .
it teases the fearful boy .
it reminds joe of the twists , turns , spins , jukes and dekes he does on the ice to confuse his opponents .
despite his efforts , when he looks ahead , he cant see seka or adrona but only the line of their tracks quickly disappearing as the wind fills them with new snow .
with his knee pounding , his chest heaving and his mouth whispering , jump , the boy pursues his rescuers .
when joe finally catches up , the snow has stopped , the wind has died and the light is all but gone .
his guides are standing at the edge of a precipice .
joe carefully approaches and looks down into a pit whose bottom is lost in shadow .
seka nods , stay on the path .
with their knees bent and sticks planted , joes guides begin their descent .
as joe tries to follow the spot where he wedges his walking stick gives way .
as he begins to slide down the cliff , joe rolls onto his stomach and throws out a hand as his toes try to dig into the scree .
when he finally stops , he twists his head to stare down the cliffside to where seka and adrona , black ghosts against a near black background , hover .
the path .
of course .
with his heart still pounding , joe carefully gets up , and , poking his walking stick before him like a blind mans cane , begins a barely controlled slide toward the black maw below .
shaking from fear and fatigue , joes relief at making it to the bottom of the immense pit disappears as soon as he looks around and neither sees nor hears his guides .
he turns a full circle trying to pull a shape or two from the darkness .
looking up , outlined against the rough black edge of the cliff far overhead , he sees a flattened oval scattering of faint new stars shining against the blue black mussel shell sky .
he shifts his attention from the distant sky to the immediacy of his wounds .
his feet are bruised and his hands are raw .
the pain in his knee is worse .
the weight of his pak seems to have doubled .
joe tilts his head again to stare at the stars above .
he takes a tentative first step , groans , takes a second , wails at the pain , and , then , stops .
in a knot of emotion that he cant untie , he beats his arms at his side like the wings he hasnt wanted .
beats them in anger , beats them to forestall any more pain , beats them in hope and despair , beats them in frustration .
after a minute , he stops to catch his breath .
as he drags cold air into his hot lungs , joe reconsiders the elements of the decision that has brought him to this point knife edged blades slicing ice in a cold , frictionless world .
crowds roaring in muffled applause behind the rinks thick plastic walls .
prissi , chastised , teary , sorry for how she has treated him .
chapter nine wont break my bones joe fflowers wipes away icy tears as he stumbles across the slag and scree covered floor of the abandoned adirondack iron mine .
he is freezing cold , feels faint from hunger and the pain in his knee just keeps growing .
despite that pain , joe tries to hurry across the pit floor however his guides are nowhere to be seen .
he walks a half moon arc twenty meters out from the bottom of the path thinking that he will pick up their tracks , but he can find no prints in the flurrying snow .
after he trips and falls on a low mound of snow slick tailings , joe sits down on a rock , which looks like a cupcake with its frosting of snow , to gather his thoughts .
the longer he sits , the more overwhelmed he becomes with regrets .
he does not hate his parents , but he is estranged .
for more than a year he has felt an enormous chasm between their wishes and his own wants .
but , regardless of those differences , when he thinks about the enormity of what he is doing , it makes his stomach churn , and , despite the cold , his hands sweat .
his uncle , adaman , had been the one who first suggested that there might be a way to put off fledging until later .
jacks dad had insinuated to joe that the labs at cygnetics were close to solving the half century old problem of delayed fledging .
even though joe distrusted his uncle , he had listened .
the idea had gotten into his head that he could play hockey for another dozen years , represent noramica in the olympics , play professionally , and , then , get his wings .
despite ogling every site he could think of to find support for what his uncle had told him , joe didnt find much beyond weak hints and wishful thinking .
however , he reassured himself that any knowledge of a late fledging would be a tightly guarded cygnetics secret .
still unsure , joe had held off making a decision until prissi told him that she had gone to bissell to see jack and meet his grandfather .
although joe knew that it should have had nothing to do with his decision , it did .
it was her betrayal which had tipped the scales .
even now , sitting in the snowy dark , a part of joe is titillated with thoughts of how badly prissi will feel if he dies in an abandoned mine pit .
when that anguished joy quickly dies out , the aching boy thinks that if , somehow , he could turn back and return to school right this moment , he would be able to shift some of his fathers rage away from himself and toward uncle adaman .
the problem , of course , is how to reverse course .
he is in a snowstorm in the middle of nowhere , and , in more ways than one , in the dark .
joe tries to fight back against the feelings of despair that are nipping and biting him like rats on a dying dog .
he reaches down between his shoes , brushes away the snow , picks up a handful of stones and , swearing with each toss , begins chucking them into the black void .
the snow is so thick that he can barely hear them land .
he hates this place .
plunk .
he hates jack .
plink .
he hates prissi .
plonk .
he hates his uncle .
plunk .
the stones are almost gone , but his anger is still with him when a stone hits him on his sore knee .
although it startles him and hurts , he suppresses his outrage .
let them come to him .
he isnt going to grovel .
he pitches another stone in the general direction from where he thinks the attack has come .
he waits , but doesnt hear a sound except for the wind flinging itself over the mine pits rim high above .
another rock hits joes knee in exactly the same place as the first one .
this time his anger over rules his judgment .
he swears loudly as he leans forward to pick up more ammunition .
he flings a stone , hears nothing , waits , hurls another , silence , pitches a third , and , then , is rewarded with a third strike to his knee .
as soon as he is hit , he leaps up and throws the handful of stones he has left with as much force as he can muster .
neither sound , nor stone , emerge from the darkness .
joe is lying on his side , knees drawn up tight to his chin , shivering such that all of his bones hurt , when he is tapped upon his head .
not a light tap .
not heavy enough to harm , but definitely heavy enough to say , with insistence , pay attention .
rich , but weak .
if you can obey in all things , then , get up .
if not , lie there like an old dog and die .
behind joes closed lids , he can see an immense pendulum , an ancient pendulum with a shaft of shining , honey colored wood and a gleaming brass compass rose , slowly swing back and forthfrom pride to hate and back again .
pride says take nothing .
stay and die .
hate says crawl , snivel , rise , do whatever to survive so that there can be revenge .
the pendulum swings back and forth in smooth silence as joe weighs his options .
pridehatepridehate .
decide .
now .
but joe cant decide .
he is mesmerized by the pendulums swing .
he has never seen fate so clearly .
two choices , one path .
he holds his breath and wavers until three more taps to his head , each harder than the one before , doubles , trebles , then quadruples his hate .
he rolls onto his knees , muffles the involuntary groans pulled from his throat , and pushes himself erect .
seka strikes joes forearm .
here .
hold this .
joe fumbles in the darkness until he feels the smooth knots of his guides staff .
as soon as he grasps the wood , he is jerked forward as seka sets off into the black with the same assurance as if it had been high noon .
after a few minutes of being dragged along in the black , joe senses that they have passed through some kind of opening and now are underground .
the black is black as it has been , but the sound from his feet is different .
the air is as cold , but absolutely still .
in another minute , joes steps ring out like rimshots on a snare drum , then echo back from the walls .
the syncopation brings joe some small comfort because he can pretend someone , someone like himself , is walking alongside .
since it feels as though their path is pitched downward , joe decides they are in a tunnel .
the pace seka sets is fast .
the tunnel floor is rough and the darkness hides both dips and chunks of stone so that joe often stumbles .
each time he does , he can feel his guides disdain for his clumsy feet travel down the length of the staff .
after what might have been a half hour , the air begins to carry a tinge of smoke , like burning leaves .
a few minutes after that , joe notices that he can make out the silhouette of sekas shoulder swaying two meters in front of him .
another couple of minutes and the tunnel opens onto a large cavern .
the room is dimly lighted with two torches wedged into fissures in the rock walls .
the perimeter of the space has benches cut into the stone .
a shadowy figure , joe guesses it is adrona , sits on the nearest bench .
in the center of the room , which is more than twenty meters across and easily ten meters high , is a rough circle of rocks whose darkened edge indicates it use as a fire pit .
on the far side of the room are three low doorways , which pulse in the flickering torch lights as if they are alive .
despite the illumination from the torches , joe holds onto sekas stick as they traverse the room and enter the archway on the right .
when the teener passes through , he notices a framework of stout timbers lining the corridor .
joe glances up and sees that the wooden posts support a mat woven of thick saplings .
he can see sharp corners of large blocks of rock jutting through gaps in the mat .
as he hurries after seka , joe decides that he has just seen a device which can be triggered to block off the tunnel .
after a few more minutes , seka pushes through a heavy wooden door into another torch lit room .
this space , smaller than the first , has a dozen low narrow doors framed into its shadowy perimeter .
against the far side of the room , almost directly under a guttering torch , four people are sitting at a large trestle table playing cards .
as joe and seka approach , a small wizened woman with a hawks nose , vertiginous cheekbones and a hawser thick braid of gray hair that reaches past her waist , cackles , gin , and carefully puts down her cards .
she taps her well worn cards before pointing two knobby fingers at joe and , in a voice that rises and falls like a religious chant , says , see , i told you that he would bring us good luck .
we share our protection with him and he will share his good fortune with us .
the abbess , which is how joe guesses the old woman sees herself , beckons him .
he hesitates until he feels a prod from behind .
when he turns , he is surprised to find the flat eyed adrona .
if the younger guide has been following him , joe has heard nothing .
the tetchy hag snaps her hand impatiently .
in the instant before he steps forward , joe guesses that abbess may not be the right word .
the crone shows her half dozen teeth in a smile .
you liked your walk ?
joe makes himself smile and nod .
my name is rholealy .
she slowly swings her head to indicate the room .
welcome to greenland .
you are safe within this place .
it has been many suns and moons since the heathens and their hawks have bothered us .
again , a slight twist of her head indicates their surroundings .
here , you will walk in peace .
joe feels like he has stepped out of the dutton school and into middle earth .
he half expects a nine fingered hobbit and his loyal friends to burst from one of the doors singing a lusty song about the power of one ring .
although his knee is on fire , his body is exhausted and his stomach is empty , joe has to bite back a smile as he says , your hospitality , madam rholealy , is most welcome .
after deciding that joes use of madam isnt meant to mock , the old woman nods her head in condescending grace .
joe hears adrona snicker behind him .
rholealys hands drop back to the table to gather the cards .
assuming that he has been dismissed , joe turns back toward adrona .
the guide points the walking stick at an opening .
in less than an hour , joe has been fed a meal of walnut meats , dried apples , and a hot drink that has pieces of bark floating in it .
when he finishes , his stomach is full , but he feels famished .
adrona shows joe to a bench in an alcove carved into the wall , hands him two thick oft darned blankets and leaves behind a small sputtering pine brand .
as soon as the guide leaves him , joe allows himself a second bout of being overwhelmed .
he lies rolled up in the surprisingly warm , smoky smelling blankets , looking at the tortured shadows the guttering torch casts , and imagines the mullen dining hall with its chandeliers shining down on one hundred polished tables , six hundred chairs , the pungent smells of coffee , roast meat and chocolate .
he flexes his ankles as he imagines flinging himself around evenen rink on scimitar sharp blades .
he substitutes the sounds of his favorite pap music by the kotanbawls coming to his ears rather than the arrhythmic plink of a drop of water that he keeps hearing reverberate along the tunnel .
he imagines flying high above the playing fields tossing a frz b back and forth to prissi .
it seems impossible that he can be where he is .
that he has left behind so many important things .
yet , somehow , he is and he has .
several times in the first weeks of hockey practice , joe had noticed a man staring at him from the evenen bleachers with the intensity of a coach or competitor .
at first , joe thought that it must be the father of one of his teammates .
later , he guessed that the burly man might be a scout .
maybe from the islanders or bruins .
joe began to look for the man when he had done something he thought was outstanding .
occasionally , he was rewarded with a quick nod of approval .
he saw the man at a game at loomis .
joes eyes sought him out after he scored a break away goal late in the third period .
the man gave him a quick grin .
finally , after running across one another at the akwautown deli , the man , who told joe his name was nathn , had taken a quarter hour to tell the duttonian how good he was and how much better he could become .
nathn asked joe if he were going to fledge .
when joe said he didnt want to , but would , nathn had said what a shame it was that someone so gifted at hockey should give that gift away .
joe twisted around on the rock ledge trying to make himself more comfortable .
it might have been three conversations later that nathn told joe that if he ever wanted to go to a place of safety until his window for fledging closed that nathn could help with that .
he had done so with other gifted aletes whose participation in those sports would end with fledging .
joe had laughed and said the idea was ridiculous , and it wasuntil he was speeding along a sheet of perfect ice , or on the verge of sleep in his dorm room .
finally , when joe had asked nathn if he was a scout , the man just smiled enigmatically .
even though he is utterly exhausted , joe can not fall asleep .
he keeps going over the steps he has taken , the thinking behind those steps and the consequences of his actions .
he lies still , his eyes closed while the colors on his lids shift from yellow to gray to red and back to yellow as the pine brand sputters .
even after the torch burns itself out , the flickering on joes lids continues until he opens his eyes to stare at the blackest black he ever has experienced .
as the minutes ooze by , the black around joe and especially the black over his headperhaps a hundred meters of dark earth pressing down upon him , changing him in the same way that the earths weight makes diamonds from coal and coal from sun dappled leaves and grassgrows heavier and heavier .
the minutes ooze , but there is a faster flow inside him .
joes bladder fills , then , over fills , but the novice guest doesnt know what to do .
if he gets up , he cant see where he is going , nor does he even know where he is supposed to go .
and if he just gets up and moves away and empties himself somewhere , he is afraid something will happen so he wont be able to find his way back .
the minutes ooze .
his bladder pulses .
his hate bubbles up like volcanic mud .
druids .
deluded druids hiding under the earth , hiding from their supposed enemies , but , it seems to joe , mostly hiding from the present world .
how can his hosts be so self absorbed that they couldnt be bothered to tell a guest where the bathroom was ?
or , he suddenly wonders , is this some kind of test ?
or , worse , a joke ?
joes fear of getting lost wanes and the anger at his maltreatment waxes .
finally , his body can take no more .
he gets up from the bench , turns to face the place where he has been , and , fingers trailing the wall , takes a careful step to the left .
joe repeats that eight times .
when he is through , he carefully paces back the way he has come .
within a few minutes of finding his bed , he falls into a deep sleep .
when he wakes , his torch has been replaced .
leaning against the edge of the alcove is a long stick with rags tied to its end .
the mop is sitting in a scarred wooden bucket half filled with water .
looking at the mop , joe suffers the heat of his shame as it flows up out of his chest and onto his cheeks , where it pulses and glows like last nights torch .
he pushes the bucket down the floor with a foot and begins the clean up .
when he finishes , he picks up the bucket , grabs the torch and starts down the corridor .
he hasnt gone far before he spies a faint glow on the tunnel floor .
a low , narrow door is carved into a slight recess in the stone .
he hears murmurs and rolling laughter .
the angry boy wedges his torch into a slight crack in the hewn wall .
his fist draws back to pound the door , but stops when he decides that knocking is too timid .
he yanks down on the carved wooden handle and slams open the plank door .
he strides into a long , low ceilinged room dominated by an immense stone pedestal table framed with long plank benches .
two dozen greenlanders in varying shades of green and brown rough sewn clothes are crowded together eating breakfast .
the old woman joe has met the night beforehe realizes he doesnt remember her namesmiles her horrible smile as she drifts a bent finger toward joe and his bucket .
civilization may not run deep within the male aristocrat , but other things do .
when most of those at the table laugh , the fire in joes cheeks flares even brighter .
can i eat ?
the old woman stares at joe until his gaze drops , then mocking him with a slight deferential nod of her head , she said , can ?
obviously .
may ?
certainly .
those who work deserve to eat .
put down your tools and join us .
joe balances the mop handle against the door frame then shuffles along the length of the table looking for a place where he can sit .
unlike at dutton , where his friends , or even students he didnt know , would have squeezed sideways to let him in , here , no one shifts .
when he comes to the end of the bench , joe scans down the other side , which is just as full .
deciding that he is no more likely to be accepted on the far side than he has been on the near , a seething joe , suddenly feeling as though he is in a hockey game where he must take charge , strides back to the door , grabs the bucket , hurls its contents into the hall outside , storms back to the end of the table , up ends the bucket into an improvised stool , sits , and stretches out a hand to grab a basket half filled with small , oddly shaped pears and apples .
the old womans cackling is joined in by almost everyone at the table .
joe says nothing , nor does he look at anyone .
he holds his head high and stares at the far walls as he devours the fruit .
as soon as he is full , he bounds up without really having any idea of what he is going to do next .
wait .
a person , a woman joe supposes , middle aged with long limp black hair framing a narrow head delicately balanced on an incredibly long thin neck , leans toward the hag she is sitting beside to whisper .
after a moment , the woman turns back toward joe .
do you prefer up , and here she tips her head so far back on her thin neck that she reminds joe of a jonquil in a spring wind .
when her head abruptly snaps back , joe expects to hear something break .
or , down ?
above ?
do you mean above ground ?
with the sun , yes .
yes .
i want to go up .
i was told that after coming here that i would get to go north .
to montreal , where a walker wouldnt be so noticed among all of the immigrants .
the doe headed woman starts to say something , but stops when the old woman snatches her arm .
the crones eyes glare as she speaks to joe .
and you will .
in time .
with our help .
you will journey to your destination when the time is right .
when we decide the time is right .
and , right now , we decide the time is wrong .
you are like a rare jewel that is coveted by many .
we have been entrusted with keeping the jewel safe .
and so we will .
because you are so valuable to some , the time you must wait to be safe may be longer than you wish , but , you can be assured that you will arrive where you wish to be .
in the meantime , you will stay with us , enjoy our hospitality and learn our wise ways .
the old woman leans forward over her plate and says in a whisper that all can hear , although my friends and charges revere me as a prophetess , i am not predicting the future when i say that once you spend some time with us , you are very , very likely to want to spend even more time with us .
the dull thump joe experiences in his chest as he listens to the old womans words is like the sad slow toll of a death knell .
for now , after you clean up your tantrum , you may go into the sun with blesonus .
you may enjoy the forest and the work you will do there .
when the work is done , you may come back to the lair for food and rest .
as joe passes by the place on the bench where the old woman sits , blesonus , who is alongside her , whirls around , grabs joes wrist , and pulls him tight .
stop .
i must listen .
the strange woman puts an ear against joes right hand , moves it up his forearm and beyond to his shoulder .
she shifts on the bench so that she can go through the same exercise to his left side .
after that , she stands , firmly turns joe away from her and presses her cheek onto his right shoulder blade .
her cheek remains there for ten , fifteen , twenty seconds while joe becomes increasingly embarrassed and , to his total amazement , peculiarly excited .
finally , blesonus murmurs something that to joe sounds like , yes .
the pressure of her cheek changes to the light rapid taps of fingertips .
after a moment that , too , stops .
when the touching stops , joe starts to walk away , but blesonus barks angrily , stay .
blesonus tone , although an octave higher , reminds joe of his fathers occasional imperious commands .
his inclination is to march off , but the idea that he might soon be out of the darkness and back above ground where he can get away from his captors keeps his feet planted .
he hears a rustling behind him before blesonus hand firmly grasps his neck .
two seconds later , joe screams from the most excruciating pain he has ever felt .
in a split second , he understands that blesonus has stabbed him and he is dying .
with a technique he has perfected in hockey when checked against the boards , joe relaxes for a split second , then spins out of his assailants grip and lunges toward the door .
now , its safe .
we can go up .
it is the dulcet tone rather than the words themselves which cause joe to swing back toward his tormentor .
blesonus is holding aloft a wooden handled knife with a needle like blade whose last five centimeters are covered in blood .
i had to slightly wound you in order to mortally wound your i tag .
otherwise , we wouldnt be in the sun for ten minutes before the hawks would know your location .
now , you are safe .
responding to joes inquisitive look , blesonus continues , we didnt do it yesterday because you were far enough below ground before they began a real search .
once youre twenty meters underground , your signal cant be read .
but , today , if we had gone up without destroying it , you would have been tracked .
now , you can go where you want and they cant find you .
watching joe wince as he reaches around to where he has been stabbed , the hagthrough his pain joe suddenly remembers that her name is rholealygiggles .
all freedom comes at some price .
in just a few days , your pain will be small , but your horizons will stretch forever .
shaking his head in disbelief , joe mutters to the room at large , is there some problemethical , ecological , philosophicalwith anesthetics ?
a young person with a snub nose , fleshy lips and nearly shaved head , a person of such asexuality that joe isnt sure whether it is a male or female , pushes up from the table .
with both arms extended in a theatrical gesture of inclusiveness , the person says , the world is where it is because too many for far too long have acted without consequences .
no life must be without pain .
you desire a certain freedom .
for that freedom , there are costs .
we , our mothers maids , live with , and readily accept , the many consequences that go along with our decision to live apart as on an island broken free of the mainland .
while the greenlanders nod in agreement with the words being spoken , joe continues to shake his head .
how do i really know that my i tag isnt working ?
cupping a hand behind an ear as she leans toward him , blesonus smiles as she says , since i know , you know .
she steps over the stone bench , takes hold of joes hand with one of hers and , using the other to grab the bucket , leads him toward the doorway .
after joe has cleaned up the floor of the tunnel , blesonus reaches into one of the many pockets on the vest she wears and withdraws two small circles of pale green glass rimmed with leather and offers one to joe .
here .
joe takes one of the lenses and watches as his guide screws the other into her eye socket , like a monocle , before frowning slightly to keep it in place .
whats it do ?
youll see .
joe attempts to follow blesonus example .
it takes him several tries before he can figure out how to keep the lens in his eye socket while at the same time keeping his lid open enough to see .
when he finally manages to secure the lens , he is puzzled .
what he sees with the lens seems no different than without it .
come .
blesonus extends her hand again and begins walking quickly down the tunnel .
within a minute they are getting to the outer glow of the last torch .
joe starts to slow his steps as the tunnel grows darker before he realizes that with the lens he can see a slightly glowing line running at waist height along the walls of the tunnel .
after just a minute of practice , joe figures out that when he closes his left eye and stares through the lens in his right that he can see many meters ahead .
the lens takes away the mystery of how seka and adrona had been able to travel so quickly and with such assurance in the inky black inside the mountain .
what makes the glow ?
fish .
fish ?
blesonus giggles , a sound far more girlish than anything joe could imagine her making .
not quite fish , but like a fish , that we farm in pools .
something rholealy made .
but why does it glow ?
blesonus laughs again at joes ignorance .
not above .
in pools down here .
bio luminescence .
we dry the fish skin , make a paste and paint the walls .
the lens concentrates the light .
as his guide moves ahead , joe sees that she has a small glowing spot on the back of each of her moccasins .
even though they move rapidly along the tunnel , joe notices that where passages intersect , there are bioluminescent markings , which he assumes work like street signs .
waiting until they are long past the last sign , joe asks , how do you know where you are going ?
how do you keep from getting lost ?
we always know .
like you always know where to stab an i tag ?
yes , the same .
the voice of the woman hurrying ahead of him is so smug that joe knows that if he had any idea of which way to go to get himself above ground , he would knock her aside and race toward his freedom .
the boy is limping and his knee is throbbing long before they come to a set of stairs carved into the stone .
the steps are very steep , almost like a ladder .
by the time joe has counted to one hundred , the glow from blesonus heels is barely discernible above him .
when he gets to one hundred thirty , joe has to lean sideways against the rough rock wall to massage his knee and catch his breath .
the stairs finally end at one hundred ninety three .
since the boy doesnt find his guide waiting , he follows the glowing streak as it zigzags every few steps in the narrowing tunnel .
he is crab walking along feeling very claustrophobic when there is a zig , a yellowish glow , a zag , then , a golden light suffusing the rabbit hole , a last zig and joe is blinded by intensely bright sunlight bouncing through a thin web of leafless vines growing in thin soil in front of the tunnels opening .
with his eyes squeezed tight against the assault from the sunlight , joe removes the lens , and rubs his eye socket .
he pivots away from the light , opens his eyes a slit , and impatiently waits for them to adjust .
it takes a couple of minutes before joe can see without pain .
he moves into the fractured sunlight bouncing off a billion faceted mound of mine tailings .
yesterdays snow is completely gone .
as soon as joe circumvents the rubble pile , he spots blesonus , a hundred meters ahead and twenty meters above him hustling up a steep trail toward the top of the immense pit .
hobbling across the pit floor as fast as he can , joe keeps looking up , but as far as he can determine , blesonus never looks back to see if he is following .
joe , with his burning knee and jellied thighs , feels completely exhausted when he finally crests the rim .
he struggles over to a large rock , drops down on it and looks around .
below him , the pit is huge , at least a kilometer across and more than a hundred meters deep .
in front of him , he can see kilometer after un ending kilometer of tree covered mountain slopes .
the perimeter of the mine itself is ringed with tall scraggly pine trees except for three rough arches where joe guesses once were roads .
in those breaks , scrub and underbrush grow thick .
he barely can make out the skeletal remains of an immense crane and a junkyards worth of rusting machinery cloaked in brush .
even with no i tag , you need to be careful .
joe jerks his head toward the voice , but he cant distinguish blesonus from the trees until she shifts sideways .
sit over here .
joe exaggerates his limp as he crosses toward his guide .
as he followed blesonus through the tunnels , he has made grandiose plans to run off at his first chance .
however , with his physical struggles with the unending stairs , and after looking out over the limitless forest , joes plans shrink to waiting and watching .
as he approaches blesonus , he forces a smile .
its so beautiful here .
so peaceful .
it must be wonderful to walk these woods in complete silence .
i get to do that a little bit when im at summer camp .
its my favorite part of going there .
blesonus returns his smile , but waggles her head at his ignorance .
this land is never quiet .
you must learn to listen with different ears .
the wind whispers , soughs , screams , mutters , moans , and cries .
the trees snap , groan , shiver and creak .
the water gurgles , gargles and laughs .
the birds , bears , bees all talk , argue , sing , sigh .
if you were to sit here for an hour with a still mind and open ears , you would hear a whole orchestra of sounds .
and do you do that often ?
a small thin cloud of regret scuttles over the womans face , which , in the sunlight , joe sees is older and more worn that he had thought .
the last years have not been easy ones .
living takes up more time , so listening gets less .
to encourage her to keep talking , joe extends a hand toward his guide and guard .
why has your life been harder ?
blesonus slowly nods her head a half dozen times before she speaks .
we greenlanders were few , now fewer .
we are older .
we are weaker .
when the last men left , rholealy laughed at their backs , but they have been missed .
joe is confused by blesonus words .
what about seka and adrona ?
the sound from the guides mouth is sharp and harsh like the snap of a dry stick .
joe is astounded .
seka and adrona are women ?
in all ways , but birthing .
blesonus tips her head and studies joes face until he grows embarrassed .
but birthing .
how long have you been here ?
i was born here .
joe reaches down to massage his knee before he asks , can we walk ?
or is there work to be done ?
both .
eat this .
she hands joe a small sprig of wilted green canoe shaped leaves and tells him to chew them before she sets off down a faint path .
it is almost an hour before she stops by a large , black boulder , perched in a manner that seems to defy gravity , high above a narrow winding dirt road carved into the dense forest .
the leaves he has eaten have helped with the pain so much that joe has had little trouble keeping up .
wait here , blesonus whispers before she crouches down and begins to shuffle down through the brush toward the road .
as soon as blesonus is out of sight , joe turns back toward the way they have come .
he looks up to see if he can pick out their path , but he cant see much .
he starts back up the mountain to get a better sight line , but within two dozen steps , he isnt even sure whether he is on or off the path .
he slinks back down to where blesonus first left him .
five minutes later , joe hears the slightest rustle .
when he glances up from where he has been resting with his back propped against a tree and his eyes closed , he sees his guide standing no more than a meter away from him .
its safe , but hurry .
joe scrambles down the steep slope after her .
blesonus stops next to a thick tangle of briers .
motioning for joe to do the same , she drops onto her belly and wriggles her way into a small , nearly invisible opening in the tangle of thorns .
joe follows the worn heels of her moccasins until he finds himself inside a shallow cleft in the hillside .
in the darker shadows at the back of the cleft is a large dinged and dented case .
half crouched , blesonus finger combs dried leaves and thorns from her long hair before handing joe a tightly knit string bag .
hold this .
using a small key she has pulled from one of the pockets of her vest , blesonus removes a lock and opens the rusted lid .
she passes back to joe a half dozen lumenaids , two five kilo bags of salt , two large bottles of some kind of pills , a five liter sof pak of tea extract and a mypod still in its bubble .
now , this .
joe takes a second bag and watches the woman fill it with pack after pack of licorice .
when that bag is full , his guardian motions for joe to work his way out from the shallow cave .
as soon as blesonus herself emerges from the thorny gauntlet and rises to her feet , joe , who has been wiping blood from a half dozen scratches , asks , what is all this stuff ?
staples .
when the greenland movement first started , members were completely self sufficient , but , as time passed and more people joined , some of the kins were in places where it was very difficult to follow the original precepts .
special dispensations were given .
it was a long battle .
those with less than perfect adherence were considered traitors , apostates , infidels , and heretics , but after a nineteen year battle , the greenland council held a conclave in new jersey and it was decided that it was better to have healthy , but less than perfect followers , rather than perfect adherents battling scurvy , rickets and goiter problems .
since the council of trenton ended in 2063 , each kin has had the freedom to self determine its needs , as well as which of those needs may be met from resources outside the lair .
blesonus waves her hand at the bulging bags .
with the latest revision of our charter , everything we have here isacceptable .
joe hefts the bag he is holding .
licorice ?
rholealys ancestors were from australia .
blesonus tentative , almost embarrassed reply , which joe doesnt understand , does make him feel better than anything else has since running away from dutton .
and ?
and its very important .
joe has a vision of the kins members kneeling while rholealy passes out licorice with the solemnity of a priest dispensing the eucharist .
the image makes joe laugh , and his laugh instantly puts blesonus into a rage .
whispering savagely , hurling words like stones , blesonus says , you rich , stupid whelp .
you come to us to escape your life .
you depend on us to save you .
you dare to laugh ?
you have no right to question anything that we do .
i should leave you here and let you wander in this unmapped maze until you die .
as joe slings the laden bag of seemingly sacred candy onto his shoulder , he conjures his meekest tone , no .
you are right .
absolutely right .
i should not have laughed .
i owe you an apology and both obedience and respect .
when his guide turns to read his face , joe keeps his eyes empty and averted .
glowering , but saying nothing , blesonus starts up the trail .
as they climb , joe pays all of his attention to the trail itself .
he tries to determine if , when the path seems to disappear , which it frequently does , there are markings .
he looks for some subtle blaze , or another trick , like the fish paint , that allows blesonus to know where she is going .
if there is a trick , joe is not able to figure it out .
after forty minutes of strenuous hiking back up the mountain , a meek and chastised joe asks blesonus about the kin .
when had the men left ?
why did they leave ?
did they often get new members ?
had they harbored teenerz , like himself , before ?
who provided the things in the metal locker ?
was if for free ?
why would they do that ?
joe learns that the last four men had left the den eleven years before because of differences with rholealys leadership .
they have had only one new member in recent memory .
joynea , who had come to them just over five years before after running away from a clonephanage , is the one who had talked about responsibility at breakfast .
about twice a year , a refugee would show up for a few days before moving onusually to montreal , to get lost in the noramcas co capital .
the necessities they were bringing back to camp came from a small group of supporters called the censure commitatus , who believed that adolescents should be allowed to make their own decisions about their bodies and their guiding beliefs without the interference of family , teachers and clergy .
the kin was willing to accept and protect teenerz undergoing those trying times .
in exchange , the censures helped the kin .
the provisions came at no monetary cost to the members of their lair , but there were other costs , substantial costs , associated with their tradition of offering sanctuary .
like what ?
hounding .
by whom ?
rholealy said everything had been safe here for a long time .
rholealy attends our souls , but some powerful wingers and their hawk minions have not forgotten us .
i feel we are watched .
when we go on our walk abouts , things happen .
like what ?
two summers ago , eight of us left in early may .
only six of us made it back to the lair in late september .
you left your home for five months ?
oh yes , every year .
one third of us make the journey .
why ?
where do you go ?
we go to see the wonders of our mother .
we go where we feel we are pulled .
two years ago , we walked from here to the southern end of lake george , over to rutland and then up through the green mountains .
we crossed the st. lawrence river on the east side of lake champlain , and went west and north until we came to lac papineau where there is another kin .
we camped there for almost a month , making friends , fishing , weaving reed baskets , collecting herbs .
then we went south and east and came back down along the salmon river to saranac lake .
it was wonderfulthe mother , when she is left alone to mother , makes so much perfection .
within a week of leaving the lair , i knew that being a greenlander was all that i ever wanted to be .
there is a catch in blesonuss voice that causes joe to ask , you had had doubts ?
blesonus makes no response beyond shifting her pak higher on her back .
joe does the same , but is rewarded with little relief .
the pak is heavy .
he is tired .
the effects of the leaves blesonus had given him have worn off .
now , both of his knees ache .
blesonus stops .
after waiting a minute to see if his guide will continue her tale , joe , with some trepidation , asks , what happened to those people on your walk about ?
his guide starts moving up the path .
it is minutes later before she says , they were taken .
taken ?
stolen .
you mean they were kidnapped .
how ?
why ?
we were almost home .
less than week to walk .
when we woke up , they were gone .
stolen in the night .
joe throws out his hands in disbelief .
well , maybe they werent stolen .
maybe they just decided to leave .
you yourself said you had doubts .
maybe they did , too , except their doubts were big enough that they acted on them .
blesonus look leaves no doubt in joes mind that she has had that same thought and has forced it back into the shadows .
when the path flattens out on a shoulder of the mountain , blesonus says , well stop for a moment .
the stick like woman shucks off her pak , lifts her narrow shoulders , arches her back and twists her head back and forth to loosen her neck muscles .
joe , who guesses he has the lighter pack , drops his down with a groan before he tries to imitate her .
when he curves his back to loosen the tightness at the base of his spine , he sees how much more mountain there is to climb .
he makes a small sound of dismay .
no .
you are looking the wrong way .
turn around .
blesonus put her hands on joes shoulders .
she holds him for what to joe seems like a long time before turning him around .
they are standing at the top of an escarpment jutting out from the mountain .
joe assumes that it is rain water rushing down the mountainside which has scoured the outcrop free of soil .
from where he stands he can see five folds of mountains covered in a carpet of green except for the occasional patch of gray stone and the thin silvery strings of waterfalls .
it is beautiful .
a million acres , a hundred souls .
is that really true ?
its close enough to true .
this land was already mostly protected by the adirondack state park .
when the last of the mines closed and logging was forbidden in the clear cut act of 2038 , the exodus of young people , which was already a steady stream , turned into a torrent .
after that , the older people slowly died off , killed themselves , or were starved out .
now , it is just us and a handful of last boyz hunting and fishing .
and smugglers .
what kind of smugglers ?
people smugglers ?
those and some other kinds .
such as ?
blesonus bends to catch a strap of her pak .
as she slings it onto her shoulders , she says , time to move on .
joe wonders if the leaves he has eaten , which he guesses might be coca , could be something that is smuggled .
he considers whether the food he carries on his back is payment from a coca smuggler .
twenty minutes later blesonus begins to talk in a low monotonic voice that makes joe think that she has forgotten that he is on the mountain with her .
i am forty three .
i have been surrounded by my mothers beauty since my birth .
she has given me thousands upon thousands of dusks and dawns of red and orange , gray , black and white , and another thousand colors which have no names .
mother loves a treasure and loves to share it .
she has offered me the gold of her sun just cresting the mountain and in the head of the dandelion and lily .
she has plied me with silver .
the silver of the moon on the coldest winter night .
the silver of the thin squirrel in spring .
the silver of cascading water and immobile granite .
the silver of melting ice and flashing fish .
the mother provides me with a home with those who think and feel as i do .
buti am the last of my family , and if i stay here i will be the last of me and mine .
if i live here , childless , when i die , all of those who gave of themselves to make me , back a thousand years , will die a different death than the one they have died before .
i am content to live and die like that if it makes my mother happy , but sometimes i can hear her plead with me to pack my things and go .
to leave .
to live a less pure life .
seeing an opportunity where he has thought none existed , joe asks , if you chose to go , would you be free to go ?
without stopping , blesonus twists her head around and looks at joe as if he has been eavesdropping on her .
she opens her mouth , but says nothing , then , picks up the pace .
ive had to make the same decisions , joe says in a tone he hopes will gain blesonus sympathy .
my family and my friends want me to have wings .
to fly with them .
to be part of their flock .
but i am most alive when i am close to earth .
the sky is something to look up to , not a place from which to look down on others and consider them to be less fortunate than i .
for all of the pain i have in my knees , i would rather be here , trudging back up this mountain with you , seeing and feeling and smelling your mothers charms up close rather than looking down on a splotch of green and a sliver of silver far below .
i only hope that , after a time , my family will see the sacrifices i am willing to make to be part of this earth rather than being above it all .
i hope they see , accept , and finally approve of how i want to live my life .
joe knows from his literature classes that oftentimes the strongest arguments are those half made .
he wonders if he already had laid it on too thick .
he guesses that if prissi were here her snorts would be coming like mortar fire .
he decides to shelve the rest of what he wants to say to go off in a new direction .
would men ever returnr ?
so there could be fathers ?
the lair has decided men no longer are welcome .
men , and all they bring , distract us from the mother .
joe considers the irony of a mother who doesnt want her children to bear children .
for a moment , his anger at blesonus cultish stupidity outweighs the necessity of currying her favor so that he can escape .
i would think that mother might like her worshippers to have an organization that was a little more sustainable .
blesonus nods her head , but her words belie that action .
rholealy says our devotion will be rewarded .
devotion to whom ?
mother .
as rholealy understands her .
yes .
they are just a couple of hundred feet shy of the crest of the mountain when blesonus misplaces a foot on a section of the path thick with scree .
her legs splay out as if doing the splits .
she yelps , falls sideways and begins rolling back down the path they have just climbed .
when joe catches up with her , she is grabbing the back of her left thigh with one hand and waving her other hand over a lava flow of tea extract oozing across a pure white field of salt .
are you okay ?
no , no , no , no .
let me help you up .
see if you can walk on it .
no .
no .
you dont know .
the lair will be so angry .
theyll iso me .
whats iso ?
isolate .
ill have to eat alone , work alone , sleep by myself .
no one will talk to me .
because you spilled some salt ?
blesonus waving hand is redirected from the spill to the space just in front of joes face .
her voice pitches up into the hysterical range .
you dont know .
you cant know .
our life is so horrible , its made the little thingssalt on stringy greens , a cup of hot tea in a cold , dark , damp roomincredibly important .
the loss of the tea and half the salt is horrible so the punishment must be horrible .
blesonus collapses her head onto her knee .
her body heaves with her sobs .
joe realizes that this is the first time he has ever heard a woman cry .
he is caught between wanting to reach down to touch her shoulder to give comfort and slapping her until she shuts up .
he thinks of the ancient adage about not crying over spilt latte and how blesonus loss is only tea .
he turns his back on his guide and stares out over the endless miles of forest .
he looks outward to distance himself from the thick , moist noises coming from close by .
he has to get away .
and he can not wait until rholealy decides it is the proper time .
he turns back , drops to his knees and gently grasps the sobbing womans shoulders .
ssshhh .
ssshhh .
blesonus , listen .
just listen for a minute .
using a gesture he has seen many times in a vid , a supposedly comforting gesture , joe takes the woman by her chin and lifts her head so that he can look into her face .
good .
good .
listen .
you didnt spill the salt and ruin the tea .
i did .
my knee .
my knee let go and i fell just like you did .
youlets see ... yeahi yelled andyou pulled a muscle when you twisted around to stop my fall .
they can be angry at me .
joe watches intently as blesonus first vigorously shakes off his suggestion with her head , then , becomes more tentative , until finally her head is still but cocked at an angle .
the sleek head and the angle at which it is held remind joe of a labrador retriever which cant quite figure out what it sees stirring in the brush .
why would you do that ?
joe gives the woman , now growing calmer , his sweetest smile .
because it would help you and it wouldnt hurt meat least , not much .
what are they going to do to me ?
here , let me help you up .
see if you can walk okay .
joe helps blesonus to her feet , picks up both paks and starts up the trail feeling as cocky as if he has just solved a tricky quadratic equation .
chapter ten of my discontent from time immemorial , dissidents and false friends have waited until a leader has left his country to mount a coup .
without the physical presence of their commander , troops and troupes of bureaucrats and functionaries find it harder to risk their lives to maintain the status quo .
when joshua fflowers went into the juvenal institute , there were stirrings , but , really , those were of no more concern than the slight movements in the straw after the barn cat pads outside to soak up some sun .
it was not until the pancreatic portion of his rejuve took a mortally threatening turn for the worse that the stirrings became skitterings and the first murmurings were heard .
the murmurings were of many things adamanjoshua fflowers older child , art supporter , political dabbler , and not so competent co president of cygnetics .
would he be deposed ?
what of his brother , illiya , the younger , if not smarter , then , certainly more respected one , the other half of the leadership of cygnetics ?
what of the old mans moneymore than a trillion eurollars ?
would it be sliced into big or little pieces of pie ?
cygneticswith its multiple vulnerabilities , would it take a fall ?
would the b crats at the nations health and hearth department become emboldened and release the supposedly dambing report that supposedly had been kept glued to the directors desk by fflowers supposedly gargantuan campaign contributions ?
then , there was the powerthe sweet perfume of power floating above any stench thrown off by a failing body .
who would inherit the old mans power in science , philanthropy , politics , and cygnetics itself ?
was the fflowers family reign over ?
when word got out that joshua fflowers was failing , men and women , friends , false friends and enemies , all began to sharpen their weapons and gird their loins for the battles ahead .
but , how could word get out ?
the juvenal institute was almost as renowned for its discretion as for its medical skills .
the answer is that while being honeyed and hounded by the press is something which an eminent surgeon , held to account by hippocratic oath and insulated , to a degree , by wealth , might resist , it is infinitely harder for an aide or orderly to parry the press advances and enticements with the same degree of skill .
for those with the desire to stay abreast and who have the requisite money , there was informationvery good , although not perfect , informationabout fflowers rejection of his liver split within hours of that dramatic change .
the details of the failure of his new pancreas found their way to those with an interest in even shorter order .
with each revelation , whether it was a spiking fever , a leaking vein , or a massive auto immune response , the rustlings in the barn grew louder .
some of that rustling sound and skittering movement about joshua fflowers fate was being made by a person who himself was the object of much speculation , someone who had just come through the entrance of the juvenal institute with everything but heralds blowing horns .
adaman fflowers often had considered how his fate seemed so much like that of the luckless prince charles of england .
it was the unbonny prince charles , whose grandmother , the revered queen mother , had lived to be one hundred one .
it was the unbonny prince charles whose mother , queen elizabeth , lived to be ninety nine , and who , whether dotty , potty , or not , was still on the windsor throne when her son , charles , ever , always and only a prince , passed on .
but , now the fifty seven year old fflowers boy who would be king was hopeful that his fate might be different .
adaman fflowers had had no reason , and even less desire , to visit his father when the old man first entered the juvenal institute .
it wasnt until the geri was comatose and fighting for his next breath that adaman ordered a roto .
there was something powerful within the son that wanted to see his father in a helpless state .
lear in a johnny .
when he arrived with his entourage of bootlicks , security guards , media handlers , infectious medical second guessers and rabid legal advisors , adaman fflowers was met by rogger blaine , head of the juvenal institute , along with dr. blaines own entourage of bootlicks , excuse makers , medical explainers and legal defenders .
after twenty minutes of diplomacy and posturing , those who were paid to argue and threaten were left to do so .
dr. blaine personally accompanied the theatrically distraught adaman to the suite where his father had been recuperating until his spectacular reversals .
once there , the son threw off the rest of his retinue , like a shakespeare thespian his cloak , except for schecty , his head of security .
the two of them followed dr. blaine to the observ station above the icu .
looking down through the tinted glass , adaman could see that the invasive care unit was a large room divided into six glass walled cubicles , three along each wall , with an open area in the middle .
all of the cubicles were full of equipment , but empty of patients , except for one .
adaman fflowers counted eleven people doing things to help a twelfth .
dr. blaine was far too skilled and far too arrogant to explain , apologize or offer any condolences to adaman fflowers .
instead , benignly , he observed for a moment before making his goodbyes .
just as the director was making his recessional through the door , adaman asked dr. blaine what his brother , illiya , thought should be done .
dr. blaine responded with a head shake .
as far as the director was aware , illiya fflowers had not been to see his father .
after the doctor left , adaman spent ten minutes watching the body of joshua fflowers being swarmed over like a race car in a pit stop .
as he walked back to his fathers suite , he nodded to himself in amusement at how remiss his brother had been in not attending to the patriarch .
and what a fine show he was missing .
back in the suite surrounded by the blanket of his retinue , adaman found that the juvenal institute and its staff planned plans .
they didnt plan results .
that is what his people said they had been told by the institute people .
it had been explained to adamans advisors by dr. blaines advisors that joshua fflowers , inexplicably , had rejected his replacement parts .
their only guess as to why the old mans body had done that was some evidence that fflowers had undergone some unusual localized and , assuredly , illegal , genetic transformation at an earlier point in his life .
it was the extra dna , formally named supernumerary accentric fragments , which were triggering the rejections .
it was that same dna , and its supposedly illegal aspects , that were supposed to trigger an acceptance by adaman fflowers that the juvenal institute had done nothing wrong .
adaman was wandering around his fathers luxurious suite , half listening to the briefing , which seemed too long to be worthy of its name , as his legal and medical aides worked to one up one another , when he picked up an a large envelope emblazoned with the familiar bissell school logo .
it amused adaman , illustrious alum , to see an actual letterthe paper and frank .
it was so gracious and so old fashioned and just exactly the thing that binny dowdahl , whose name appeared handwritten in the upper left hand corner , would think to do to appeal to joshua fflowers .
within seconds of opening dowdahls letter , adaman felt like he had been thrown overboard in a wintry sea .
gripping the letter in one fist as if it were an assassins wrist , he slid the accompanying pix from the envelope .
his breath stopped while he stared at the dedication day image of his retrograde father being smiled at by jack and a young girl whose face stabbed deep into some self surviving , cunning reptilian portion of adamans brain .
who and what was this person who so interested his father ?
something tugged , but just what it was wouldnt come to him , but he knew it must come because it was important .
critically important .
adaman fflowers accepted that his father despised him .
that acceptance had not come easily .
when adaman was a child , he had tried in many wayspleading , fawning , adoring , and even , obeying , to get his father to like him , but by the time adaman was twelve , he knew that his goal was hopeless .
in the years that followed , rather than expending useless energy to get his father to like him more , adaman had done his best to inveigle his younger brother , illiya , to behave in ways that would cause joshua fflowers to like his second son less .
however , adanans efforts , joshua fflowers had continued to prefer and favor illiya over his first born .
it was not until jack was born that adaman realized the game did not have to be played out between iliya and himself .
seeing a possible opening , adaman had coached , mentored and directed jack to become what his grandfather wanted .
to adamans great relief and satisfaction , jack fflowers proved to be both an eager and apt grandson .
when , just two days before , schecty had told adaman that he had heard from nathn that his nephew , joe , had taken the bait and was on his way to a new life , adaman fflowers had been ecstatic .
he felt the end game of a long hard played match was coming and he held the more powerful pieces .
although joshua fflowers continued to despise adaman , he did love jack .
now , he would feel betrayed by joe .
that feeling , that joe was a traitor , was sure to redound badly for illiya .
upon hearing schectys news that the plan was working , adaman had allowed himself some time to gloat and dream .
finally , his years of scheming were paying off .
the chess match would be over as soon as joshua fflowers heard the news .
the match still might not end in checkmate , but a stalemate was better than an outright loss .
adamans triumph had lost its glow when , on the following day , he was informed of joshua fflowers precipitous decline .
adamans thoughts harkened back to prince charles and his lame fate .
if his father was too sick to learn what joe had done , or died before he changed the distribution of his wealth and power , all of adamans efforts would have been for naught .
the unrequited son paced and thought and paced and thought .
after a time he had an idea .
he went to the rooms closet , and searching through his fathers clothes found what he thought he might find .
as long as he had known him , his father had been a doodler .
whether he was on a fone , conferencing , thinking , or in a meeting , his hands kept busy .
adaman pulled out a small wad of cocktail napkins , some from the dedication and some from the roto flight .
he sat cross legged on the bed and spread them in front of him .
squiggles , arrows , a sketch of his new buildingand es , lots of es , and a few fancy ps .
and arrows linking es to ps .
after deciding that priscilla langue might be the p , adamans confusion unraveled .
e led to p. e led to priscilla .
adamans throat made a noise like a clogged drain .
he lifted up the pix of the girl and tried to remember the portrait in the airie he had studied a thousand times .
that portrait had been done when elena howe was forty , but adaman could see that the resemblance was there .
the torrent of words that burst from his mouth left strings of spittle on adanans chin .
in the space of a day he had gone from checkmating his brother to being in check to being checkmated .
if his father died , the will would remain unchanged .
but , now , if the old man rallied , the will very well might be changed , but not in the way that adanan had planned .
adanan could see how an eleventh hour appearance by someone named priscilla langue could cause him to lose everything he had worked for so many years .
adaman knew without a doubt that if the old man had any opportunity to develop a relationship with the simulacrum of elena howe , his own and , most likely , jacks future , too , would be ash .
he also was sure that prince charles last conscious feeling had to have been a bitter one .
adaman swore to himself that the unbonny princes fate would not be his own .
if his father died , there was nothing he could do .
butif his father lived , the girl could not .
adaman fflowers was mapping out a strategy with schecty about how to handle the girl when his brother , illiya , accompanied by a single security guardian came in .
ah , the prodigal son .
i , we , and , of course , dear he , expected you earlier .
joes gone .
as he quickly gathered the napkins off the bedspread , adaman shook his head at the pettiness of his brothers concerns .
really ?
how daring .
probably a lark .
something sophomoric .
spring break jail break .
in the raspy voice that he has had since he was a toddler , when he ate some scouring powder that somehow got where it wasnt supposed to be , a tragic accident older brother adaman had known absolutely about , illiya said , maybe , but i dont think so .
i think its more .
i think he might be grounding .
when he was home over winter break , the issue of fledging came to a head .
although he already knew the answer to the question , the older brother asked , why ?
whats the problem ?
illiyas exasperation seeped through his calm words like perfume through a jets air handler .
he doesnt want to fly .
he cant seem to think of anything beyond playing hockey .
his mute was scheduled for tomorrow .
he has been making noises , but we just thought it was jongitis .
even the bravest kid can feel some fear of flying .
not my jack .
no , of course , not .
not jack .
illiya walked around the room in agitation .
joe wanted to fly since before he could walk .
for years , he would flop around the room pretending .
but , ever since he got so good at hockey , hes had a million reasons why he shouldnt fly .
when he came home for thanksgiving , he was adamant .
he was going to stay a walker and play hockey .
his coach said this .
his coach said that .
hed rather play hockey for ten years than fly for fifty .
we told him he that there was no question that he was going to fledge .
he finally consented , but pleaded to delay the mute until after hockey season was over .
adamans speech is clipped as he interrupts his brother , and you told him the window for growing the best wings was small .
of course .
adaman crossed the room , picked up an envelope , the one with a bissell logo , folded it and stuffed it in a pants pocket before he said , and joey started talking about pam techniques .
break throughs .
second chances .
am i correct ?
there is silence as illiya absorbed the anger he felt at adaman calling his son , joey .
finally , he asks , did he get that from you ?
i believe we traded a couple of ems .
he wanted to know whenyouths hope or ifhis mistrust of cygnetics scienceit would happen .
since i handle the science side and you handle the money , he thought i would know more about those kinds of things than you .
what could i say ?
i told him it was something the company has been working on almost from the beginning .
you can change jobs , or faiths , a dozen times , change spouses , give birth anytime from ten to seventy .
so , why should you have to make the most momentous decision of your life within a short period of your adolescence ?
if we could perfect post adolescent mutation , a person could run , swim , play baseball , climb mountains , sail , be a plumber or scuba diver , or any of the things a winger cant do , or do well , for ten , twenty , thirty years and then begin to fly .
flying has always been the pre eminent symbol of freedomand a big part of freedom is the ability to change , to make choicesbut our technical constraints take away so much choice .
we are free when we fly .
we are free to fly .
but , we are not free to decide when we fly .
unable to suppress his anger any longer , illiyas voice rose , did you encourage him to stay a walker because he just might be able to mute his wings later on ?
adaman threw up his hands at the absurdity of what his brother has said .
no , illiya .
i told him the truth .
that science swings from the unthinkable to the incremental and back again .
until our illustrious father , dare we call him dad , and our intended mother worked out the g splices and mutancy maps for the first implant , self flight was unthinkable .
wings on humans .
not wings on things attached to humans .
unthinkable .
until brianna brim landed at mid field at super bowl li .
that moment fundamentally changed the worldlike the invention of language , love , god , the a bomb .
but , thenour oh so busy near mom and dadbat wings to bird wingsincremental .
and all of the things sincecolors , shapes for speed or distance , lowering the failures with anti rejection drugs , projecting body mass to wing size , all of those things are just accommodations to the initial lightning bolt .
and , as those things were solved , the scientists always thought that pam would be just another incremental improvement .
not just a tweaki dont think anybody was that arrogant .
not something you can see ahead and just need to pack some water before you get on the path .
but something that , at least , gives a glimmer over the horizon .
but , so far , even after sixty years on the path , theres been no glimmer .
as you know , despite our efforts , our very expensive efforts , pam has proved intractablelike squamous celled cancers .
as a result , if were being honestas brothers shouldbut please dont tell the stockholders weve taken away as much freedom as weve given .
illiyas voice , an octave higher and beyond incrementally louder , blurted , you told him that ?
flying diminishes freedom ?
im sure i listened more than i talked , brother .
of course , there was probably a little of the fond uncles wisdom .
but , i did tell him that pam did not seem to be around the corner , and , that like anything else , flying could add or subtract from ones life .
illiya threw his hands up in disgust .
well , after all of the balanced parsing , adaman , after all the philosophizing , what remains is that joe is gone .
the son of the co president of cygnetics corporation is hiding so that he wont have to fly .
if this gets known , and if the gen4 data starts to leak out now that dads not there to stop it , this news could drop fast to the bottom line .
dramatic , but i think implausible .
weve kept that data off the screen for months .
id give joey a day or two before setting off alarms .
you have unleashed our own dogs , i presume ?
i had a team of six guardians begin a search as soon as the school called me .
adaman held his chin in imitation of a wise man thinking .
hmmm , i think if it were my son , which , of course , i am so jealous that it is not , i would call the school and tell them that joey has shown up at home none the worse for wear .
and , if he doesnt show up ?
our guardians are very , very good .
i cant see that happening .
they are so good that they have found nothing in forty eight hours .
adaman shrugged in theatrical defeat .
then , perhaps , my proposed course is the wrong one .
it is your son and you must decide .
i must concern myself with our poor father .
adaman touched a fingertip to his cheekbone .
and another small matter .
after illiya left , adaman finished his conversation with schecty .
no consternated unbonny prince charles biting on a knuckle .
the girl must go .
please , schecty , when you get in touch with me , please refer to our new situation as another small matter .
that i think will keep my spirits up as i grieve what is , or isnt , happening to papa .
chapter eleven head over heels prissi had two surprises when she arrived home for spring break .
the first surprise was discovering two immense shipping crates sequestered behind their cyclone fenced storage area in the basement of the gramercy arms .
her father obviously had let go of his notion about leaving their african past behind .
when nora langue had died , beryl langues immediate response had been to cut and run .
he locked up his lab , asked friends to pack up their furnishings and , within a day of nora langues ashes being scattered onto lake tanganyika , he and prissi were crossing that same lake in the first leg of their sojourn .
a week later , they entered costa rica through a back door encumbered with a total of three suitcases and two paks .
now , almost three years after her mothers death , prissi had the opportunity to be re connected with her past through the collection of boxes spread across the storage area floor .
prissi couldnt wait to see what might have been saved of their lives in burundi , but she realized that her second surprise might cut into her time to explore the first .
dr. smarkzy had sent her the contact numbers for his friend , pequod jones , at the new york public datarium .
he emed that if prissi wanted to travel down the lost path , she could have no better cicerone than the curmudgeonly pequod jones .
in addition , smarkzy himself was going to take advantage of his break , to which he could attest faculty anticipated more than students , to see if he could find some things from the god that could help the cause .
prissi assumed that the good old days referred to smarkzys time at cold spring harbor .
despite the romantic allure of the lost path , prissi probably would have spent much more time in her apartment buildings basement going through her past rather than at the nypd if it had not been for a piece of very bad luck .
in homage to her favorite teacher , prissi flew up fifth avenue late in the afternoon of her first day home .
she met pequod jones , who proved to be anything but a curmudgeon .
jones , a ruddy faced old man with a beach ball belly and flailing arms , let her know that he was breaking the rules by allowing her to look through the fflowers collectionand that he was taking great pleasure in doing so .
he told her that he was compelled to break the rules because he was a scientist first and a datarian second .
prissi spent two hours going through a miniscule portion of the archives joshua fflowers had donated to posterity .
she skipped through paper , disk , stick , bubble and liquid memory of fflowers early years as a scientist , entrepreneur , executive , and philanthropist looking for material relevant to delayed fledging .
she found little enough of that however she did discover that the company that smarkzy recalled his friend working for was named centsurety .
of the small amount of material that did seem relevant , almost all of it was either so stupefyingly dull or so obtuse that prissis lids drooped within seconds of beginning her work .
when jones bounced by to ask prissi about her progress , prissi , being a dutton student , was compelled to tell him the truth .
it was drudgery .
eyes bright and head bobbling , the datarian smiled as he said , science , small s is , and walked away .
prissi , who had worked long enough not to feel guilty but had found so little to pique her interest that she couldnt convince herself to stay another minute , was paking up when her bad luck arrived in the guise of an old pix presented to her by pequod jones .
maybe it will make it more interesting if you can see with whom you are dealing .
the large pix jones held out to the teener was a group shot of a dozen , mostly young , men and women loosely clustered around a couple of picnic tables .
dr. jones pointed out joshua fflowers and then named three other people he knew .
he ended with a pudgy finger touching a widely smiling dashing young man raising a bottle in toast to the unseen photographer .
the rightly revered dr. vartan smarkzy .
prissis head was nodding but she failed to hear any more of jones words .
her brain was processing the face of someone he hadnt named .
what had prissi poring over the ancient pix was the face of a young woman holding hands with a tall , crane legged man in khaki shorts .
the woman in the lo def pix had an eerie resemblance to some of the pixs in a flashbook her mother had sometimes showed her that that held images of lbp , life before prissi .
her mother had worked for joshua fflowers ?
on the lost path ?
nora elieson , oatmeal cookie and butterscotch brownie maker , queen of guina fowl life cycles , had had an exciting life that she hadnt told her daughter about ?
suddenly , prissi couldnt wait to get home to go through the boxes in the basement .
a mystery within a mystery .
that notion was irresistible to the teener , far better than reading another crn .
prissi began packing her kanga .
pequod jones was right and wrong .
the pix did energize prissi , but not because of some scientific mystery .
it was what the possibilities might be for her own history that inspired her .
prissi had never felt especially close to her father .
he was over seventy when she was born .
he was a very good , but not a very warm person .
it wasnt that he was cold rather , he seemed to be perennially distracted .
prissi knew that her fathers work with regenerative chickens and guinea fowl had helped thousands upon thousands of africans lead a better life however it was the science and not the savings in misery that seemed to hold his attention .
when villagers tried to thank him with a smile , words or a small gift for designing a bird whose wings could be removed for meat and , then , grown back to be harvested again , he always looked like he was about to bolt .
despite beryl langues undemonstrative nature , prissi knew that her father adored her .
in return , she held her father in high esteem for his rationally bounded caring , good works , and forthrightness .
from all of the crns she had consumed , prissi knew that beryl langue would have made a horrible lover , but a perfect 1950s father .
in prissis estimation , her mother was her fathers complement .
nora elieson was fun .
despite being in her late eighties , she had been as much a pal and fellow adventurer as a parent .
when the family spent the too short weeks of summer school vacation east of the rift in karuzi province , prissi and her mother would quietly sneak around the mud and wattle camp in pre dawn dark paking picnics and gathering gear to take to their blind by the waterhole , where they would spend hours watching the animals come to drink .
they had rolled and cut cookie dough into lions , tigers and wildebeest with wooden cutters carved by an old blind man in the village .
they had produced plays with tribal masks and paper cutouts with the village children on a powdery red clay stage .
they had whispered secrets to each other as a harsh dry wind punched at their hammock .
even when it was time to leave the highlands so that prissi could return to school , the adventures didnt end .
the mother and daughter had explored most of bujumbura , sometimes even without their guard .
those memories were her parents .
more than once prissi had heard her mothers tale of the chance meeting between two middle aged scientists outside a global nations conference room , of how that led to love and how their love for one another gave birth to prissi .
so who were these two in the picture with their shoulders touching , eyes slightly squinting , glorious teeth backlighting theatrically wide smiles ?
there didnt seem to be too many gn aid recipients in the picnic picture .
who was the man holding her mothers hand , who , assuredly , was not her father ?
who were all these people who werent in any of the stories her parents told ?
what romance and mystery was prissi holding in her hand ?
prissi didnt think asking pequod jones about the couple would do her any good .
as garrulous as he was , if he had known more , she was sure he would have told her .
she considered sending an em to dr. smarkzy , but held back for a reason she couldnt quite explain .
looking again at the pix , prissi was sure she was looking at her mother .
prissi prided herself that after almost two years of boarding school she could smell a secret a kilometer away .
what was before her was less than a half meter away and it smelled to high heaven .
she was absolutely sure she was looking at something she wasnt supposed to know , but , as a budding scientist , but she wasnt going to confront her father until she had amassed more information .
when she got back to the apartment that night , prissi smiled brightly at her fathers muted welcome and curbed her impatience when he told her he wanted to eat at fraunces tavern , the oldest restaurant in new york .
instead of having the hissy fit that welled within her from being put off the track , she smiled again at her father as she whispered to herself , science , with a small s. fraunces tavern , which had been built in 1719 , had been moved from its location on pearl street when the waters began to rise around manhattan .
as she and her father entered the columned door fronting on madison square park , prissi could tell from the lack of noise that the restaurant was mostly empty .
although beryl langue tried to appear engrossed by prissis answers to his questions about her life at dutton , it was obvious that her father was sad .
prissi guessed it was his response to the arrival of the crates .
to prissi , it seemed that the longer her mother was dead , the harder it became for her father .
it had gotten so much worse in the last year that there were times when prissi thought that there must be something more than the death of his mate pulling her father down into such despondency .
during their dinner , just the two of them sitting at a table for four in the dim yellow light of the colonial era structure , they vacillated between staring at one another and speaking in non sequitors .
her father drank two glasses of danish chardonnay before their dinner arrived .
he drank another glass with dinner and after dinner alternated sips of cognac and coffee .
prissi watched him as he blinked his eyes to keep back what she guessed might be tears .
as they walked back downtown toward gramercy park , beryl langue told his daughter that he had been thinking about his life , what he had accomplished and what he had not .
he paused , as though choosing his words carefully , before telling her that his life had been both too long and too short .
when prissi , being dutiful , asked him what he meant , her father said that he had lived long enough to make many mistakes , but that he didnt think he would live long enough to rectify them .
prissi stayed quiet until they got through the door of their gramercy arms apartment , then , having decided that the time was not appropriate for her questions , she hugged her rigid armed father until he made a noise she wished she had not heard .
once in her room , prissi resumed work on her mystery .
she sat on her bed with her puter balanced on her crossed legs to continue her ogle , but she soon found that the evening with her father had paralyzed her for much beyond rumination .
prissi was grateful that she didnt have to live with this morose man , and she was grateful that he paid her way to dutton , but those feelings were tempered with a bruising guilt .
after they left africa , prissi and her father had spent six weeks in costa rica looking at bird farms , and another two months in cuba .
when they left the fifty second state , they took a boat to miami , then , took their time driving north to new york city in a rented van .
it seemed to prissi during that time of transition that every time they moved , they left more things , excluding memories , behind .
the farther from africa they got , the more pensive her father became .
but , when she asked him what he was thinking about , he never would say .
they had arrived in new york city in october of 2094 and settled into a non descript flat in the run down area surrounding gramercy park .
until he found a job with a small company that massaged data for the gn , her father stayed in the darkened apartment during the day hunkered over his puter and took long walks in the evening .
having arrived in new york after the fall semester had begun , prissis only option was public school .
she started eighth grade at a dilapidated concrete box in the shadow of the fdr levee without protest .
the teachers were dull , but not as mind numbing as those shed had in africa .
the material was mostly useless , boring or both .
but the kidsspeaking a babel of languages , with erupting skins of every hue , playing music shed never heard beforewere great .
the thirteen year old pushed africa away and welcomed all the variety to be found in fading fin de sicle new york .
other than being a bit surprised , prissi didnt think much about it when , in early november , her father told her that he wanted her to take the psb , the private school boards .
before her mother had died , the question of sending prissi out of africa to go to school had come up at the dinner table many , many times .
back then , prissi had complained bitterly that she wasnt challenged in school , and , the older she got , the worse it became .
people said how hard it was to be stupid in a smart world , but the frustrated girl told her parents that it was much worse to be smart in a stupid world .
she had given her parents two choices .
they could send her off to schoolengland , gerance , china , noramica or japanshe didnt care which .
or , they could give her a lobotomy .
ever prissis defender , even though she admitted it would break her heart , nora had argued that she and beryl would be the prime beneficiaries from sending prissi away since everyone knew that one of the worlds most dangerous creatures was a bored teenage girl .
but , her father repeatedly had rejected those plaints and pleas .
they were a family .
families stayed together .
england , with its war with scotland , was too dangerous and japan or china were too far away .
suddenly , after less than a month in new york , her father had been insisting that she take the exam .
he told prissi that he just wanted to see how she compared with other kids .
that answer came back loud and clear with her psb results .
even though the schools she had gone to in africa had been very bad , the tutoring she had received from the parents , especially in math and science , and the constant reading she had done must have been very good as prissi placed in the ninety eighth percentile of those tested .
it was not until prissis scores came back that beryl langue began to talk about schools .
when he did , prissi tuned out .
she liked where she was and whom she was with .
new york city might be a century past its prime , and certainly offered no academic competition to hong kong , addis ababa , montreal or beijing , but it was far better than the dust , dirt and sudden death of bujumbura .
while beryl langue insisted that prissi needed more of a challenge than she was getting in a new york public school , prissi thought that the truth was that her father wanted less of a challenge than he was getting at home .
prissi had ignored her father and the whole idea of going off to school until he rented a car , took her out of school for three days and drove them to connecticut to visit choate , then up the road to dutton and bissell .
in western massachusetts , they looked at deerfield , after which they drove north to st. pauls and exeter in new hampshire .
on their way back south , they stopped in massachusetts again to visit andover and middlesex .
prissi could not believe how beautiful the schools were , but she was slow to accept giving up the scary thrill of new york .
her father pushed .
he assured her that even though the setting was very different , she would keep the same mix of kids as were in her present school .
the only difference would be the high probability that the boarding school kids would be smarter , more talented and more competitive .
finally , prissi wrote the essays and filled in the forms for her top five choices .
and hunkered down for the interminable wait .
would a 98th ile psb score , good soccer goalie , tri lingual , african born girl get through the narrow gate ?
the answer was yes and no .
in march , she found out that she wasnt good enough for andover , st. pauls and deerfield , but exeter and dutton had accepted her .
given that her father had become even more depressed and distracted over the intervening months , prissi was happy to have an opportunity to escape .
she decided that she would go to exeter .
it had the advantages of being not only a bigger but a far richer school than dutton .
it also was much farther away from beryl langue .
beryl langue , however , insisted that prissi matriculate at dutton .
prissi arrived in waterville , connecticut reluctantly .
however , by the end of her first week , prissi langue was in love with dutton and her roommate nancy sloan , and the pond , her soccer mates , and the emerald green perfectly limed soccer fields , and the meatburgers and fries at the jig and even mrs. mallory , who hovered around the juice and espresso dispensers in mullen hall dispensing motherisms .
after massaging her stomach to move more than memories of fraunces tavern into the past , prissi fell asleep feeling exhausted and very sad that , after a half day at home with her father , she was wishing she were back at school .
chapter twelve escapade joe fflowers is right .
even though the greenlander lair is devastated by the loss of its tea and salt , they have not taken their disappointment out on him .
instead , in the two days since his supposed fall , he has been treated kindly by almost everyone in the den .
they offer him salve for his knee , wash his clothes , and give him larger portions of food than they themselves take .
what joe especially appreciates most is that they talk to him .
by having conversations with varying members , each of whom is willing to share something that maybe they shouldnt , jack learns that there are seven ways out of the lair .
the path that he and blesonus had taken is one of the most difficult .
it is the one used when the den has guests .
three other exits leave the den midway down three different sides of the mountainnorth , west and south .
the last three passages are supposedly long torturous bolt holes .
one ends in the valley on the mountains west side .
another exits on the south side behind a waterfall several hundred feet above an abandoned logging road .
the third also opens behind a waterfall , which , after pitching through four cascades , becomes a stream that flows to the hudson river .
joe figures that if he can make his way to the hudson , then his boating skills , developed during summer vacations on the narrow scythe of cape cod island , will provide him with a means of escape .
he is sure that he can find some kind of boat that will get him downstream to albany .
from albany , he can make his way back north to montreal , which has always been his goaloror , some other place that can be decided later .
the morning after their failed mission , blesonus leads joe further down into the mountain along a steep pitched tunnel until they came to a series of four caverns , each of which has a pool of the fish , which are the source of the greenlanders bio luminescent paint .
the animals look like giant tadpoles .
when joe pleads , a skeptical blesonus hands him a small pot of the paint .
that night , instead of sleeping , joe goes wandering into the bowels of the mountain .
he takes the pot of paint with him , and every time there is an intersection in the tunnels , he marks his way with a thumbprint .
each time there is a choice , he opts for the way that seems to lead deeper into the mountain .
even after several hours of searching , while yawning from lack of sleep and fighting the growls in his stomach and the throbbing in his knee , the frustrated boy still has not discovered the exit he is seeking .
joe is a hundred meters down a corridor when he stops dead .
he cant remember marking the last intersection .
the panicky adolescent whirls around in the tunnel and rushes to retrace his steps .
standing before the intersection , which indeed has no marking , he tries to remember whether he had turned in from the right or left .
his heart is beating so fast that he has trouble concentrating .
he turns left , takes a step in that direction , then , wavers .
his body begins to quake .
he tells himself to slow down , that the quaking is less from fear than from low blood sugar from the greenlanders meager diet .
the panicky boy slumps against the cold of the wall and consciously slows his breathing .
after several moments , it dawns on him that it doesnt make any difference which way he turns .
if he goes to the left to the next intersection and there is no mark , then he will know that he must turn around , walk past where he presently is and go to the next opening , which will be marked .
joe pushes himself up from the floor , plays his hunch and turns left .
when he comes to the intersection and sees no glowing thumbprint , he retraces his steps .
he is so confident as he walks back that when he comes to the other opening and finds no thumbprint , it takes him a moment to realize the full implications .
it stuns him to realize that he has forgotten to mark at least two junctions .
the magnitude of his stupidity literally floors joe .
he sits in the dark , with his thighs and calves spasming as he stares each way at the unbroken line of phosphorescence and ponders his next move .
from what blesonus and the others have told him , there is a spiderweb of tunnels , some natural , some left from the mining operations , but most constructed during the heyday of the greenlanders , winding throughout the mountain and even into adjoining mountains .
back when novices joined the kin in droves and visitors came to see the life extolled in news programs and two documentary films , the trails had been well marked .
but , after the lair was repeatedly attacked by anti greens and last boyz , the cave dwellers removed most of the markers to make things more difficult for any intruders .
despite the fact that that over the decades most of the world has forgotten that the greenlanders , like the shakers before them , even exist , the majority of passages remain unmarked and , even worse for joe , unused .
joe rolls his head against the hard cold stone as he tries to figure out the mathematics of his situationone mistake gives two possible paths , two mistakes makes four possibilities , and if he has forgotten to paint three entrances , he will have eight possible trails to backtrack .
the longer joe sits , the more he feels how exhausted he is .
the air around him thickens .
it feels heavy enough to wrap himself in it .
he doesnt want to move .
suddenly , his panic triples as the idea comes that what he is feeling is like the stories of lost hikers going to sleep in a snow storm .
completely agitated , he jumps to his feet and starts to run down the tunnel .
it is only as he comes to an intersection and the decision that implies that he gets enough hold on himself to consider that , as unnerved as he is , if he continues , he may only compound his troubles .
the cold , frightened boy holds back a sob as he slides his back down the damp rock wall .
he removes the monocle from his eye and rubs the skin and muscles around the socket contemplatively .
after a few minutes of getting himself calm , joe rolls onto his side , draws up his knees and , just before he falls deeply asleep , assures himself that he is too agitated to do more than take a quick cat nap .
chapter thirteen puzzled when she woke the morning after the fraunces tavern dinner , prissi knew her days task was to find out more about the faces in the pequod jones pix .
however , rather than immediately going back to the nypd , she thought it made more sense to see if she could find anything in the apartment or in the newly arrived cases from africa that would help her .
minutes after her father left for work , prissi began her search in the small bedroom he used as an office .
twenty minutes of rummaging file drawers and pawing through the piles of papers stack on the badboard bookcase revealed nothing .
although she had some guilt as she snuck around the office , those feelings were nothing compared to what prissi experienced when she moved her search to her fathers bedroom .
she found nothing more exciting than a water bottle , zines and a pen on top of the bed stand .
the edstands dusty drawer held paper clips , rubber bands , tissues , a pill vial , more pens and two unopened paks of gum .
the sock and underwear drawers held socks , underwear and a musty smell that gave prissi the creeps .
moving to the closet , the mortified teener had a frisson of anticipation when her hand touched something thin at the far end of the shelf above the clothes rod .
standing on her tiptoes , she caught a corner and withdrew a yellow padded saf rap envelope .
with her quivering hands making the task more difficult , prissi finally managed to split the seal .
she half pulled the sheet from the envelope .
when she realized she was holding her mothers death certificate , she wondered why her father would keep it in his closet .
she flared her wings and sat down on the rumpled sheets of her fathers bed .
pulling the heavy sheet of paper free of its envelope , prissi read the succinct recounting of a lifename , date and place of birth , and place and date of .
her mothers date of death was wrong .
nora elieson had died on may 20th , 2094 .
that was a date prissi could never forget .
the paper prissi had in her hands said her mother had died on may 23rd .
she shrugged .
that was africa .
a place so nonchalant about , so inured to death , it didnt even know when its people died .
when she started reading again , prissis quivering hands began to shaker .
a snotty sob , the first one in almost two years , strangled her .
in a split second , a flick of the eyes , prissis life changed .
the daughters life changed because the mothers death changed .
instead of dying from the injuries she had sustained in a one vehicle accident along the muyinga gitega road , the death certificate said that nora eliesons accident was no accident , that her death was self inflicted .
as quickly as it had started , prissis sobbing stopped .
yesterdays pix .
now , this paper .
was her familys life , and , thus , her life , all a lie ?
something worse than tears started to explode from prissi , but she slammed it back with a ferocity she didnt even know she had .
that , whatever that was , was not getting out .
prissi shoved the death certificate back into its dark home .
she tapped the edge of the envelope against her head before she put it back on the shelf at the back of a closet , a place where it did and didnt belong .
the disturbed teener stumbled down to the basement of the gramercy arms .
desperate to find something to make sense of what she had just discovered upstairs , prissi rotated the five gears of the padlock securing the door of the mesh wire storage compartment .
she snapped the lock shackle and threw back the door , pushed enough things aside so that she could spread her wings , dropped to her knees and began picking up pieces of their african life with the desperation of a hurricane survivor returning home .
suicide ?
suicide ?
it wasnt possible .
her mother was happy .
she was healthy .
her mother loved her .
she would never kill herself .
prissi held and discarded familiar objectsand thoughts .
although she rubbed the sides of vases and lamps , no genie emerged to change her fate .
she rubbed her forehead with hands that smelled of a lost life , but no thoughts came that could make sense of the crime of which the paper in her fathers closet accused her mother , a crime of which prissi and her father , though indirectly , also were accused .
it was after five oclock before a drained prissi stood up amidst the mess she had made .
she had found nothing that told her why her mother would commit suicide .
but , she did have answers to other questions .
now , she understood why they had left africa immediately after the funeral and why her father wasnt able to recover from his wifes death .
prissi wanted to be at the door when her father came home and tell him what she knew .
with the disengagement of a sleep walker , the distraught girl tried to bring order to her thinking by bringing order back out of the chaos she had created in the storage cage however before she had made much progress , exhaustion , more emotional than physical , made her quit .
even though her father would be home from work before long , prissi didnt go back to the apartment .
instead , the feeling that had welled up in her fathers bedroom , the feeling whose release she feared , propelled her through the acid rain etched glass doors of the gramercy arms .
it was just after 6 00 p.m. and the green glow of the aqua phosphor street lights along 21st street painted ghastly faces on those walkers hurrying along the sidewalk .
overhead , the pulse of the beating wings of the walkers bosses , and the tapestry of crisscrossing beams of flighlights , filled the air .
prissi had burst out of the door without an idea in her head except to move fast enough so that the turmoil within wouldnt overwhelm her .
but , once outside in the cool dark air , some rational fragment of her brain reminded her that it had been over six hours since she had eaten anything .
while six hours was not a personal best , it was the longest she could remember going without food since starting boarding school .
even though her mind was indecisive , her belly knew immediately that it wanted to head toward the malawi deli two blocks west of fifth avenue .
prissi thought that if she hurried , she just might get there before all of the mbatata biscuits were gone .
in burundi , mbatata biscuits had been prissis favorite food .
now , despite her painful confusion , the teener smiled at the thought of how she and mother would buy them from a stall at the market near their apartment building .
biscuits in hand , she would cajole her mother into buying an irn bru .
they would walk down to the shores of lake tanganyika , with their unhappy bodyguard in tow , eating and drinking and talking , talking , talking .
prissi had just switched on her flightlight when she heard someone trill her name .
the voice was familiar , but for a second , because it was so out of context , she couldnt quite place it .
she looked up to the balustrade that stuck out a meter from the front of the apartment building across the street and saw a shapeless figure crouching there .
prissi , its me .
recognition came .
freeieekin caesar .
the shadowy figure leapt off the parapet , flapped twice and landed in front of prissi .
the amorhous form pushed back a hood , pulled off a watch cap and metamorphosed into jack fflowers .
a dirty , disheveled , intriguing jack fflowers .
whats going on ?
with a theatrical self satisfied grin at his arrivals effect on prissi , jack drawled , ill tell you , but im really hungry .
do you have anything to eat ?
im just running out to get some dinner .
cmon with me .
its not far .
jack shook his head , not a good idea .
he nodded to the blue black sky overhead as he pulled his hood back up .
why are you hiding ?
isnt it joe thats the fugitive ?
jack interrupted prissi , can we go some place safer ?
although prissi prided herself on not being thrown off course , there was something about jack that made her willing to wait to ask her questions .
come on up .
my dad will be home soon , but i can say i ran into you , say were good friends from school , you know .
with a smirk , jack gestured to his clothes , do i look like someone who would go to prep school ?
no , youre right .
but , my dad , even though he doesnt spend much time in this world , still might smell something snooty on you .
but , its either up there or down in the basement .
whats down there ?
storage and a utility room .
no super ?
no the buildings too small .
they use central super .
jack leered , down .
although prissi knew that she should be in shock , she found herself happy that jack was teasing her .
she turned to see if the lobby was empty before beckoning with a jerk of her head for jack to follow her .
when she stopped to put her thumb on the lock sensor , prissi felt jacks breath on her neck .
as soon as prissi showed jack the cage where she had spent the afternoon , he immediately said , this is epic .
i can incubate here .
but what do i do if someone lands in our love nest ?
jacks words made prissis face flush .
to create a diversion she asked , what is going on ?
why are you hiding ?
jack ignored her .
ill stack these boxes and push them close to the back wall where its darker .
i can hide there .
jack was still moving boxes when he said , hmmmm .
still not much cover .
id be a rat in a cage .
but , no one comes down here .
it only takes one .
jack walked out of the cage to the end of the long room where he yanked on a door handle .
whats in here ?
the heat and stuffelectricity .
as he turned back , jack shook his head .
not good .
prissis shoulders slumped .
id better go .
a wave of feeling , part panic and part pain , washed over prissi .
with a huge effort , she conquered both .
no .
dont go .
not yet , anyway .
no one will come .
ill go get food and be right back .
what do you like ?
jack , seemingly startled by the kindness , shrugged his narrow slouchy shoulders , anything .
its been awhile .
as prissi raced up the basement stairs , she hit herself in the forehead with her fist .
she ran through the lobby , caught a wing as she rushed through the door , flung herself from the top of the three step stoop and beat her wings madly .
as soon as she was airborne , she dropped her left wing , pounded her right and made a sweeping turn down 21st street toward the lights of fifth avenue three blocks away .
by the time she got to the intersection with lexington avenue , she was over thirty meters in the air and moving fast however the cold air rushing past her face did nothing to cool the heat in her cheeks .
prissi kept climbing as she sped her way toward park avenue .
when she reached sixty meters , she roared in confusion .
the teener drew up her heels , dropped her head on to chest , folded her wings tight and did a triple somersault .
she came out of the third flip so fast that when she flared her wings to stop her freefall , she felt the same pop in her right shoulder that she had experienced at bissell .
she dropped her legs to increase her drag before carefully beating her wings a half dozen times to make sure everything still worked .
as she walked in to the ez lam global market , prissi was panting so hard she could only manage a choked as salaam alaykum to jiffy apithy , the owners third son , second shift cashier , honors student in molecular engineering at nyu man and , most importantly , fellow soccer player .
prissi had spent hours of her first months in new york playing after school and weekend pick up soccer games with a motley crew that included jiffy .
she greatly respected jiffys competitiveness , which , she was willing to admit , came close to equaling her own .
prissi grabbed a tote , and smiled at her friend before pointing toward the open deli display at the back of the store .
the smile jiffy tossed back was so big it was barely contained by the wide dimpled cheeks of his perfectly round face .
in a minor miracle , there were four mbatata biscuits left .
prissi snatched them like they were the crown jewels .
she added a zip bag of kibbe , lentils and onions , then , put it back as being too far fetched , found nori wrapped mahi mahi and a container of fresh water shrimp spring rolls .
she grabbed two bottles of irn bru , kefir and a 2 liter bottle of arctic water .
she hefted the tote , frowned , shrugged and packed it in her imagination before making her way back to jiffy .
prissi stood on the floor scale , wriggling impatiently as jiffy scanned her flightcard .
he put her purchases on the sale scale .
the scale buzzed .
youre a kilo over .
prissi stared at the food for a second before flaring up at jiffy .
cmon , jiffy , let it go .
you know i only live a couple of blocks away .
nothings going to happen from here to there .
when jiffy shook his head , the combed out hair on the top of his head swayed back and forth like sagebrush in a breeze , i like noramica .
i want to stay .
prissi tried her disgusted look .
zeusus , jiffy , malawi culture must be big on drama .
jiffys dark eyes , always warm and friendly , turned ice cold .
it is not the culture in malawi that is a drama , it is the livingwhich is mostly dying .
im sorry .
that was stupidand mean .
prissi took out the water bottle and walked down the aisle to put it back on its shelf .
she paid and then opened her kanga pak to arrange her purchases in the suggested order and orientation shown on the receipt .
she bounced up and down a couple of times to settle the pak .
half way out the door , prissi turned back toward jiffy , sometimes i can be very stupid .
jiffy stared at her with his new eyes and waited five seconds before finally giving her a small nod of his head .
the energized confusion prissi had felt flying to the market was replaced by a heavy winged feeling of loss on the flight back .
what was it about jack that caused her to do stupid things , to hurt people she really liked ?
an angry prissi shoved open the basement door and muttered , hey , its me , but , her anger sputtered when she opened the cage and didnt find jack .
jack ?
jack ?
at first , as she listened , she heard only the hair dryer drone of the heat pump , but then she heard a muffled sound , like a sweeping broom .
prissi tentatively moved toward the noise , which seemed to be coming from a cage at the far end of the basement .
jack ?
jacks head rose from behind a wall of boxes .
prissi snapped the padlock that secured the door .
it held .
howd you do that ?
jack wriggled his boomerang shaped eyebrows and offered prissi a wry grin before he disappeared from view .
prissi heard the broom noise again , then a scraping sound like a small snow shovel cleaning a sidewalk .
a second later jack came out from behind the low wall of boxes in the langue cage with a small screwdriver in his hand and a big smile across his dirty face .
somehow , jacks smile made prissis elbows tingle .
the sides are pretty flimsy .
the riled teener unzipped her kanga and offered the mbatata muffins .
africas best .
jack stood still .
africas best could still be noramicas worst .
what are they ?
those words focused prissis thoughts .
the tingle went away .
im sure i can return them if theyre not to your standards .
jacks lips formed a word , but they made had no sound .
the boy slid down on his haunches and began to shove food into his mouth .
sorry , though rich , im nave .
i just didnt know africa had anything that was best .
instead of expelling her words , prissi stomped down the corridor and banged her fist against a cage .
are they good ?
jack , with his cheeks bulging like a squirrel in autumn , nodded his head .
to get rid of the excess energy that was making her feel like gnats were biting her , prissi stalked back and forth in front of the cages .
on one pass , she looked down and studied how filthy jacks hair was .
on another pass , she thought she could smell his hair .
it was kind of smoky like old bacon fat and maybe something fishy .
jack finished the mbatata and started on the mahi mahi .
despite the heat pump drone , prissi could hear his mewling sounds as he ate .
his sounds reminded her of a litter of kittens and , somehow , made it hard for her to breathe .
she coughed twice .
when the fish was gone , jack began shoving the spring rolls into his mouth in a way that suddenly began to disgust her .
if he had been hurt , maybe bleeding , or covered in vomit , or had his intestines spilling from a wound , she was sure that she would have been willing to help him but eating the way he was eating , with rice noodles stuck to his chin and his jaws crushing through the bulge of food in his mouth , was harder to accept .
the eating , the smell of his hair , the self absorption began to revulse her .
prissi hurried to the far wall to get away from jack .
as she held onto the wire of the last cage taking deep breaths , her eyes were drawn to a gray bin amid a jumble of boxes and broken chairs .
although the light was dim , the writing identifying the contents of the bin as schoolwork was in her mothers handwriting .
during the half minute she stared at the container , prissi could not come up with a plausible reason for why it would be there .
feeling foolish even as she did it since she knew what the result would be , prissi tugged on the padlock .
it did not miraculously open .
she cradled the lock in her palm as she studied it .
like the one of her cage door , it had five numbered wheels , which meant a possibility of 99,999 combinations .
fighting her intuition , prissi made herself begin at 00000 , tugged , advanced the far right rotor until it read one and tugged again .
she was at 0027 when she heard jack crush the container that had held the spring rolls .
reluctantly , prissi let go of the lock and walked back down to her cage .
this was great .
the best and most ive eaten since i got here .
which was when ?
even to herself , prissis thought her voice sounded like the eunuched charm that came from the venderators at school .
monday night .
whats going on ?
jacks eyes seemed to dull as he looked at something beyond the basement door .
he pinched the skin of a cheekbone before rubbing the back of his grimy neck .
you can ask , but im not sure i can give you an answer .
after a long silence , prissi asked , youre not running away , too , are you ?
like a childs charade of a steam turbine , jacks shoulders rose , a hiss of air escaped his lips , and , then , his shoulders slumped .
kinda .
i mean my folks dont know where i am .
but , really , im not running away .
i hope im running toward .
joe ?
yeah .
since i kind of feel responsible that he took off , i want to help find him .
how could you be responsible ?
i thought you and joe didnt talk .
jack flashed his biggest smile , we dont .
but , it was christmas , at my grandfathers .
there wasnt much choice .
better to talk about fledging and flying than some other topics .
when jack waggled his eyebrows , prissi raised one of hers and started to call him on what she guessed was a lie .
instead , her embarrassment over what he was insinuating , caused her to ask , i thought you loved to fly .
i do , but i like a lot of other things , too .
part of it is just growing up .
or , maybe accepting that for the first time in my life i didnt get to have what i wanted .
which was ?
play now .
fly later .
instead of resenting jacks life of privilege and his nonchalant self centeredness , prissi took a deep breath , pushed her wings far forward , and carefully slid down the cage door to sit on the floor opposite him .
jack continued , joe didnt really have anything against flying .
in fact , i know hed love it .
obviously , hed be good at it .
jack stopped as if waiting for prissi to say something .
he cocked his head sideways in a manner that reminded prissi of a crow looking at something shiny in the grass before giving her another huge , consciously vulpine smile .
to get past the effects of his smile , prissi said , but , joe loves hockey and he wasnt ready to give that up .
did he tell you that ?
indirectly .
although he was still smiling , jacks eyes locked onto prissis and didnt waver .
do you know where he went ?
thats mostly why im here .
i thought he might have given you a clue about he was going to do .
i know he trusted you .
prissi shook her head resignedly .
no clue .
a couple of greasy plaits broke free from jacks head when he mimicked prissis action .
he grabbed the ends and began to twist them .
again , prissi felt as though he was expecting her to say something .
there was an uncomfortable silence until jack leaned toward prissi to say , my dad told me that it might not be long before youll be able to mute when youre in your twenties .
he told me that joe might be able to play hockey for fifteen more years .
be in the olympicsthen fledge and do whatever he , jack laughed bitterly , or , more importantly , the family wants .
like get your butt home , now ?
like that .
prissi couldnt contain herself , jack , you know theyve been promising that for fifty years and it hasnt happened .
its like a cure for herpes or acne .
always just around the corner , but it hasnt happened .
how would you be feeling right now if you knew you had missed the window and never could fly ?
you shouldnt have told .
prissi never had a chance to finish her sentence .
her mypod chirped .
it was her father .
he was worried .
when he found out that there was nothing wrong except that prissi had run into a friend , he wondered when she was going to be home .
should he go out to get them something to eat ?
rather than tell her father that she was down in the basement , prissi reassured him that she would be home with dinner in twenty minutes .
look , ive got to go .
stay here .
ill be back as soon as i can .
jack stood up .
i need to go out for awhile .
ive got a hunch .
if i go , can i get back in ?
no .
okay , maybe , ill stay .
but dont take too long .
ive got to keep movingfor joes and my own sake .
plus , the smile flashed like a shooting star , a pining heart is a when prissi reached out to jack , he stepped forward and held her tight .
they swayed together like tidal seaweed for too many seconds before a weak kneed prissi shoved him back .
jacks eyes were big in surprise at the force prissi used to disengage .
she laughed .
you misread my intentions .
she reached forward and plucked a convenient piece of rice noodle from the sparse stubble on his chin .
jack grabbed her again and held her tight .
prissi felt his hands smoothing her feathers and fought the urge to let those caresses go on .
finally , when she stiffened in his arms , jack released her as he said , i hope you dont misread mine .
like a dog to its bowl , the wolfish grin bounded back onto jacks face just before its owner slouched back down onto the floor .
an hour later , when prissi pushed through the basement door after having eaten a quick malay take out with her father , she was surprised to find the basement dark .
as she punched the light switch , she whispered jacks name .
she half expected him to play jack in the box a second time .
she walked past all of the cages until she was in front of the utility room door .
she tried the handle to see if he might have figured out how to get past that lock .
when the handle didnt turn , she spun back around to catch him sneaking up on her , but the room was empty .
she hurried back to the langue storage area and looked behind the re arranged totes .
no jack there , and no jack hiding in any of the storage areas .
no jack .
no joe .
when prissi plopped herself down on a black crate , it protested with an angry sigh .
she tried to figure out what she had done to cause jack to leave .
her hand drifted to her face where her fingers played with her pimples like the buttons on an accordion .
she sat , thought , regretted , grew angry , at him , at herself , at it , and finally , when there were no more targets , she slumped and stared at the tips of her wings .
she savored her unhappiness .
she probed and prodded the tenderest spots like a defeated fighter poking at the greenest of a set of bruises .
finally , having grown bored with her self indulgence , prissi pushed herself to her feet .
it wasnt until she snapped the lock shackle to secure the langue cage that she remembered the tote in the other cage .
this time when she stood in front of the wire door , she listened to her intuition .
she rotated the dials of the lock until they duplicated the combination for the lock on the langue cage .
when she gave a tug , the lock opened .
prissi took a few seconds to listen to the buildings sighs and groans before opening the door .
once inside , the teener brushed aside her lifeless mouse fur hair and used her feet to push aside the boxes surrounding the one with her mothers writing .
she spread her wings enough to kneel down .
her hands hovered over the gray container before her trembling hands began peeling back its shipping seals .
the top layer held boxes filled with prissis art and homework assignments from elementary school .
as the motherless refugee opened the boxes , along with all of the memories , came the faintest smell of africa .
the next layer contained a flash album , which was all black because of dead solar batteries .
it would take hours of exposure to light to see what pix it held .
there was another ancient album with images on paper protected behind plastic sleeves .
prissi couldnt remember seeing that before .
taking her time , she found two pix of the young woman who had been holding hands in pequod jones pix .
in one , the woman , wearing a lab coat and a serious face , was leaning over something which looked like an aquarium .
in the second image , the woman , who prissi was sure was her mother with a half century of living removed from her face , was standing on top of a mountain in jeens and heavy boots .
prissi took the pix from the album thinking that she would add them to her arsenal for when she battled her father for her familys past .
the third layer held banded stacks of letters .
when prissi flipped through the relics , she saw that most of them were from her father to her mother .
two were not .
they were from someone named al burgey who lived in new jersey .
on the bottom of the box prissi found a red plastic filo .
when she opened it she discovered a small bag covered with a pattern of tiny red and black beads .
opening the bag , prissi found a spiral crystal , banded in gold , and suspended on a heavy link gold chain .
this was a piece of her mothers jewelry she had never seen before .
when prissi held the crystal up to the light , its interior was hazy with tiny fractures .
she dropped the pendant over her head and tucked it inside her shirt .
it felt good to have something of her mothers against her skin .
it was good until that feeling started to make her eyes itch .
prissi went back to her exploring .
at the very bottom of the box , she found a large , tattered composition book .
it only took her a minute to realize that its pages contained her mothers notes , ideas and observations about different scientific experiments .
as the entranced girl read , she fingered the pendant .
most of her mothers work seemed to be focused on mutancy .
there was no mention of centsurety , but prissi was now even more sure that her mother had worked there for joshua fflowers .
her hands vibrated as she held and read the evidence of a secret life her mother had lived .
after spending twenty minutes thumbing through the notebooks , prissi had no better idea of what her mother had been working on other than that it involved a mutancy project which brought more frustration than satisfaction .
when prissi turned the last page of the notebook , she saw from the remaining scraps that many pages had been torn out .
prissi compared the first entry in the notebook with the last and wondered why she had never heard a single word about the three years her mother had spent doing this work .
she wondered why the notebook and pendant and pix were in a tote in the wrong storage area .
and , lastly , she wondered if there could be a connection between the things before her and her mothers suicide .
in frustration , prissi used her outstretched feet to shove the boxes away from her .
she flared her wings , flexed her shoulders , and rolled her neck .
she took a deep breath , held it , slowly released it , and began her story she was not the evil spawn .
instead , her mother was an evilno , her mother was a good scientist who worked with evil onesa good scientist who had been going to blow the whistle on the evil scientists .
who had found out what she was going to doand tried to stop her ?
somewayshe would have to work that out laterthe good scientist had evaded her fate by going underground .
years later , she had resurfaced in burundi as a housewife who helped her scientist husband help mankind and adored her daughter , and.unbidden by prissi , her storys unwanted ending came ... who committed suicide .
prissi shook her head .
that couldnt be the right ending .
it couldnt be .
she packed everything back in the box as she had found it , except for the pix and the pendant .
she locked the wire door and was on her way out when she noticed a small piece of paper wedged into the chicken wire of the langue cage .
opening the note , she read 213 ?
sfe b tzt k .
since prissi knew it hadnt been there earlier , she assumed that it was some kind of coded message from jack .
one of the things she was beginning to hate about jack was that when he tried to be mysterious , he came off as being either snarky or stupid .
feeling that she didnt have the time , prissi shoved the paper in her pocket .
she didnt need for everything to be so cryptic .
she headed upstairs to interrogate beryl langueher purported father .
it was after midnight before prissi got in her bed .
although she was exhausted , she tossed and turned as she thought about what her father had and hadnt told her .
they had sat in the living roomshe sprawled on the couch , he , after carefully draping his frayed gray wings , sitting stiff and upright in a centurys old captains chair .
prissis strategy had been to work on her fathers past before confronting him with her mothers history and , finally , her suicide , but , on a whim , she had begun her interrogation by asking him if her mother ever had been a scientist .
after a long pause , her father nodded his head yes .
thinking of the pix pequod jones had shown her , prissi persisted .
was it a long time ago ?
well , it would have to have been .
was it possible that she was a meta mutanist ?
he had never been sure what that phrase meant .
after all , how much change was a big change ?
growing impatient , prissi asked if nora elieson had worked for joshua fflowers .
beryl langue said that he didnt know the answer to that , but that he himself had occasionally seen joshua fflowers because , back then , fflowers still went to conferences and spent time with scientists .
prissi decided to return to her original plan .
what had beryl langue worked on back then ?
her father shrugged .
like all scientists , he worked on little pieces of puzzles .
exasperated , prissi had asked , what kinds of puzzles .
her father took his time before answering that just before mid century a lot of time and research money had been spent on expanding the parameters of meta mutancy .
prissi asked if he meant flying .
his nod was barely discernible in the low light of the living room .
certainly , flying , in the broadest sense .
even his re gen work was an off shoot of flying .
flying and nanotics had been the money magnets .
everything had to be linked in some way to those two topics if it was going to get funding .
just like the money had once been tied to tb , aids and nuclear bombs .
wing design , especially deltas , had gotten its share .
he had done some work on remige edges .
prissi let her father ramble on about feathers and wing designs even though she didnt believe it was anything other than a delaying tactic .
when her father finally sputtered to a stop and started to push himself out of his chair , prissi knocked him back by immediately asking what else was being researched ?
beryl langue had to think about that .
it had been a long time ago .
finally , he said nothing was coming back to him .
prissi asked if her mother had ever worked on delayed fledging .
he shrugged and said he didnt know the specifics of all of her research .
he shook his head , almost as if he were denying what he was saying .
since everything tended to be connected , it certainly was possible that some of what she worked on might have been related .
he paused before saying that any efforts in that area obviously hadnt been useful because delayed fledging still was proving to be an intractable problem .
prissi started to ask another question when her father stopped her .
why the sudden interest in the past ?
i thought science had proved that the last thing a fifteen year old girl is interested in is her parents .
figuring that she had as much right to dissemble as her father , prissi avoided saying smarkzys name but told beryl langue about the lecture on false paths .
he was nodding in approval until she mentioned her idea of the lost path .
that something wonderful had been discovered and then lost at a company named centsurety that joshua fflowers had owned .
the mention of centsurety froze her father .
he stared at her .
a finger rose to make a point .
he opened his mouth , then closed it and shook his head .
finally , he said , i suggest you find something more useful to do .
prissi always had thought of her father as either too nice or too nave to lie .
but , tonight , after listening to his words , especially after the mention of centsurety , and noting the hesitations , watching his eyes with their slight shifts and darting glances , prissi had known that her father was lying to her .
in a way , though it was frustrating and made her angry , it also made her feel a new respect for him .
propped up in her bed , unconsciously smoothing her feathers and massaging her sore shoulder , prissi gloated that all her father had done was to make her even more eager to find out how her mother was connected to joshua fflowers .
if she could immerse herself in figuring out that connection , then maybe , just maybe , that would keep the other , bigger question at bay .
but not until tomorrow .
as soon as her mind allowed the smallest wedge , the bigger question filled the molasses thick , black , suddenly claustrophobic air of her bedroom .
why had her mother committed suicide ?
the teeners breathing became shallow and fast as she thought of all the things she had done , or hadnt done , that would make her mom want to let go of her life .
prissi couldnt stand it .
she swept her arms through the nights murk to dispel them .
when that didnt work , prissi changed tactics .
.jack had held her and his lips had been .
chapter fourteen a row and then a row joe starts awake in the thick pitch black dark with the rough skin of callused fingers rubbing his lips .
its okay .
its me .
in the silence of the underground space , blesonus whisper sounds like distant thunder .
joe , after being pushed and nudged , rolls his cold crampy body , as unwieldy as a memfoam mattress , into a sitting position .
youre lucky i found you .
what are you doing down here ?
joe is far too groggy to make up much of a story .
i couldnt sleep .
i wandered off .
i was going left , right , left right , but i forgot .
i ended up here and just stoppedboth because i was tired and because i was afraid that the farther i went the worse off id be .
blesonus sniggers in disbelief , for a smart boy from a fancy school , your penmanship isnt too good .
what do you mean ?
youve left some ts uncrossed and some is undotted .
like the thumbprints .
the pot of paint .
anyone lost in a cave is going to follow passages that go up , not deeper .
you told me your school has prided itself on the honor of its students for two hundred years .
why not just tell the truth and say that you were trying to escape .
do you have a light ?
joe hears a rustling , then , blesonus face and a small section of the tunnel appear in the algae green glow of a lumenaid .
i wasnt trying to escape .
i was just trying to explore enough so that if , or when , i do want to escape , i will know how to get away .
blesonus tousles joes hair in a way that makes him feel very uncomfortable .
from what i can see , you still have more to learn .
you should thank mother i found you .
while we greenlanders know the whole mountain , there are many tunnels where no one goes for weeks .
you could have died .
the cold down here is patient .
it doesnt kill you in hours like it might above if you were out in bad weather , but in a day or two , without proper clothing , it will slowly , but absolutely surely , drain your life away .
by now , joe is alert enough to know that his best response is to be both meek and beholden .
youre right .
i am lucky .
youre a good friend .
im lucky to have you watching over me .
how did you happen to come looking for me ?
i was up .
i couldnt sleep .
i kept thinking about how delicate our lives are here .
when i fell , it wasnt just tea and salt that was lost .
i also lost my sense of belonging .
you go along day by day thinking things are the same , but everyday things change , but , usually , a days change is too small to be seen .
it took that fall for me to understand that what we had here for years and years was a true community .
the threads that bound us were of the tightest knit , the strongest mesh .
now , thats gone .
we have no community , only a fiefdom , a little duchy run with fear and shame by our mad duchess .
blesonus voice has dropped below a whisper .
joe fflowers has lots of experience with the power that a wedge can have when carefully placed and firmly tapped .
he often has practiced that art at the family dinner table .
and , certainly the rock walls around him give eloquent testimony to the power of something small , but sharp , being able to destroy something much larger than itself .
the boy touches the womans wrist .
after a moment , she covers her light .
they sit shoulder to shoulder inside their black blanket and whisper .
more than an hour passes before they rise and blesonus leads her charge back to the kin .
at dinner that night , a meal of chewy grain and faded greens , joe looks at the faces and torsos of the twenty eight women seated around the table .
despite blesonus revelation that everyone in the room , with the exception of himself , is female , he is having a very hard time accepting that .
there are seven at the table who , if he were asked to categorize , he would have said were men .
with their short hair , broad shoulders and cheeks that look like they are darkened by more than just the shadows cast by the flickering torches , what else could they be ?
from the care with which the portion of salt that he saved is dispensed and the obvious enjoyment that it brings , joe guesses that it has been awhile since salt has been on the table .
as he methodically chews the half cooked porridge until it forms a paste soft enough to swallow , joe wonders how long this folly can endure .
it takes joe several days to complete his plan .
when the time comes , he stuffs his pockets with a map blesonus has made for him and two lumenaids .
he fills the small canvas bag she has given him with with licorice and dried cherries .
he takes his pak and coat , and , just before dinner , stashes them in a shallow alcove past the entrance of the fourth turn of his escape route .
near the end of the dinner , after he has eaten his fill and more , joe loudly interrupts rholealy as she tells a story to make a joke .
the first time he does it , she turns her head and stares .
the second time , the old woman raises two gnarled fingers , then , cuts a swath through the air .
after the third interruption , those sitting along the benches began to squirm in anticipation of the reward for incurring rholealys wrath .
the crone motions to joe .
you , boy , come here .
joe shakes his head in dismissal as he reaches for another apple , not that much smaller nor more wizened than the face of the woman who summons him .
now , boy .
joe slowly rises , then saunters around the corner of the table .
as he approaches , rholealy takes the wisteria vine staff she uses to walk and raises it as a weapon .
in a movement as fluid as lifting an opponents stick on the ice , joe grabs the staff , rips it from the old womans hand , and flings it across the room .
the sharp sucking noise of shock fills the room .
when rholealy raises her thin arm to strike him , joe pushes it aside and forces the crones face down into her porridge .
the immediate outcry at this unthinkable outrage is followed by sudden and complete silence .
a dozen of the greenlanders trade glances with one another before six women rise up to come to the aid of their leader .
joe dismisses their efforts with a wave of his hand .
why protect this old witch ?
shes weak .
when rholealy attempts to lift her head , joe holds it down and pushes it back and forth on the plate as if it were a piece of bread mopping up gravy .
weak .
and insane .
your poor mad queen .
shes ruined your kin , your lair , your beliefs , your best hopes .
look .
joe takes rholealys glass of cider and pours it on her head .
this is whom you fear ?
depose this fraud .
get yourself a real leader .
as she and joe have rehearsed , blesonus jumps up from her place , hurries across the room , grabs rholealys staff and runs at joe with the stick raised high in the air , how dare you !
leave !
now !
joe backs away from the threat , pushes through the door and hears the hoped for cheers as he races down the gloomy tunnel toward his gear .
it takes joe more than two hours to make his way to the opening which leaves him closest to the hudson river .
during those long minutes , he battles his doubts that blesonus actually has helped him to escape rather than wander lost until he weakens and dies far beneath his world .
when he finally crawls out of the needle eyed opening and slides around the rocks and through the brush that hide the mouth of the tunnel , joe is overwhelmingly relieved to be free and glad to see that the night sky is as clear as it had been during the day when he and blesonus had decided that the time was right .
with clear skies and clean air , the half moon throws enough light that joe can keep moving .
the bolt hole he has exited is at the top of a steep grade of rough edged rock with a scattering of spindly scrub eking out a life from the soil trapped in the clefts of the rocks .
as blesonus had explained , to conceal its presence , there is no path leading from the tunnels opening .
joe catches his breath as he studies the terrain before him and tries to pick a way which will lead him safely down the mountain .
to the south , the proud youth can see a sinuous break in the forest , which he assumes is the logging road blesonus has advised he use as his escape route .
even though the abandoned road is overgrown , supposedly , it will lead him to a county road , which , after eight kliks , will bring him close enough to the river that he will be able to hear it .
it is after midnight , and all the licorice and cherries have been eaten , before joe comes to the edge of the hudson .
the kayak which he steals from under the porch of a ramshackle cabin is ancient .
cocooned in cobwebs , its cockpit filled with rotted pine needles , the green polypropylene of its surface cracked and checked like a renaissance painting , it does not reassure joe with its seaworthiness .
but , within an hour after launching it into the hudson , joe is confident enough that he tightens the skirt and steers the quirky boat away from the shoreline he has been cautiously hugging .
he veers toward mid stream to catch more of the silvery current hurrying on its way south .
long hours later , as the sun awakes with a long pale yellow yawn , joe shouts with joy at the warmth that yellow promises .
his body is violently shivering from the mist and spray which has been coming off the river and burrowing its way inside his coat .
throughout the nights slow hours , the colder the stripling got , the more spastic his paddling became and , consequently , the more river water bounced off the skirt and onto his coat .
however , even as joes body grew colder , his thoughts became more feverish .
the old joe fflowers is goneand he cant be found now because his i tag is gone , too .
the old joe is gone and this new , unnamed , boy is free .
truly free .
he can go anywhere .
he will need more money than what he brought from school , but there are ways to get that .
easy ways .
he is alone , but not lonely .
he never wants to see his family again .
he is tired of being hidden and protected from the world , like a misers hoard , because of his familys wealth .
he is tired of being told what and how he must be .
he is freeexcept for his looks .
with all the fflowers money , there will lots of people looking for him .
he will need to do things to his face and hair so that he wont be recognized .
but , like the money , that can be easily done .
he recalls the greenlander women who he thought were men .
first , he will change his looks and , after that , he will change himself .
he will become someone else .
someone who makes his way in the world because of what he does and not because of who he is .
when the sky is just shy of full light , joe falls off the current and heads toward the shoreline .
although there is almost no possibility that anyone can know where he is , he doesnt want to take a chance that blesonus has betrayed him or that another of the greenlanders has signaled someone to look for him .
he hugs the edge of the ever widening hudson until he spies a rough shingled cottage nestled in a small opening carved out of the woods .
after landing , dragging the kayak out of the water , and stashing it behind a rats nest of debris left behind by a past flood , joe holds to the shadows of the woods as he makes a horseshoe reconnoiter of the cabin .
not until he is certain that the cabin is uninhabited does joe draw close and peek into the windows .
a minute later , he uses a rock to break a small pane and unlock the window .
ten minutes after that joe is asleep in a glorious cold , damp , sagging , musty smelling bed .
as joes legs spark and quiver , as his arm muscles tighten from the paddles pull , joes mind dives ever deeper into a dark , safe place .
when the escapee finally awakes , slowly and reluctantly letting go of a color saturated image of an immense piece of cake , cake with an aroma of vanilla so intense that he can still smell it after waking , the sun is far along on its journey to the west .
joe wakes relieved , but ravenous and with arms that weigh too much to move .
finally hunger exceeds enervation .
taking his time as he rolls his shoulders and flexes his aching hands , joe pokes through the sagging cupboards .
next to the sink , he finds chain saw oil , mosquito repellent , mouse traps , and candle stubs in a cookie tin .
in a shallow cupboard meant to hold guns , back when guns were legal , he discovers jars of sesame butter and grape jelly and three vacpacs of quinoa and curry soup .
not sure of how to safely open the gas line to the stove , joe eats the soups cold .
even cold , he thinks they taste better than anything he has eaten with the greenlanders .
the sun still has a way to fall but the western shore already is in shadow when joe puts the kayak back in .
in the same way as he had paddled the night before , he begins with caution , but as the sky turns to slate and shale and the forests shadows lengthen , joe follows their progress away from shore .
the runaway gives a hoot of satisfaction when the moon rises and he can see that it is bigger than the night before .
it excites him that already he is enough of a riverman that he can recognize the days differencehe doubts than anyone else at dutton could do it .
he also is comforted with the knowledge that as he makes his way south and the river grows in size and strength that the moon , too , will grow with it .
he begins to sing as he skims his way alongthe same songs that would get mangled coming home from a hockey win .
for the next few minutes joes thoughts switch from wanting an audience to watch his adventure , to wanting teammates to share it , to being happy that he is the kind of man who can make his own solo way .
the runaway has been paddling for several hours when he notices that he is having trouble keeping the kayak on course .
the hudsons ever broadening rolling surface is fractured into a million watery moonlit hills , rills and valleys .
a current of warm southerly air is buffeting the prow of the kayak as the wind fights its way across the current .
twenty minutes later , clouds , looking like sideways clusters of the darkest grapes , hurtle across the sky .
joe is so busy keeping the kayak pointing south that the clouds almost reach the moon before he realizes that he is about to lose his light .
that tardy insight comes when he is hundreds of meters from shore .
he pulls hard to angle his way back to the western bank and safety , but that angle puts the freshening winds right on his prow .
after a minute of slow progress , joe decides that the safer course is to paddle across the wind rather than directly into it .
he digs in on his port side until the kayak points toward a bump of land far down river on the eastern shore .
when joe tries to cross through the middle of the river , he can feel the current grow stronger through the thin skin of his boat .
a powerful stream of water within the river itself takes hold of the kayak and shoots it downstream .
when joe redoubles his efforts to push through the current , the kayak slips sideways .
in a split second , a well of water builds up behind the kayaks port side .
joe leans against the rising gunwale .
he digs in his paddle but it is too late .
the kayak rises up , hovers , and flips over .
although joe is already cold from his hours in the river , that cold is nothing compared to what he feels when his head and torso plunge into the hudsons black swirling waters .
the shock tries to paralyze him , but even as he loses control , joe starts his own rescue .
dozens of times over the years at his summer camp , he has practiced kayak rollovers and recoveries .
when his head goes under , his lungs are full .
he shifts his fulcrum from left to right .
he knows that the secret of a recovery is not to panic and to continue the momentum of the rollover .
in camp , during the day , with warm , still lake water and counselors all about , a capsize had been fun .
a quick way to cool down .
you are right side up , a moment later upside down and a moment after that , right side up again .
all in friendly water .
now , suddenly , the water is angry .
angry and black to blind him .
angry and cold to slow him .
angry and fast to exhaust him .
andjoe realizes as he struggles to right himself while hurtling down the massive surge of waterthe water has an ally .
his winter coat , which has kept him mostly warm and mostly dry , has turned into a millstone .
its bulk and sodden weight works to keep him upside down .
as he twists to bring the kayak broadside to the current so that the force which flipped him over will help to right him , the coat , now like a spongy anchor , thwarts his efforts .
joe is so caught up in his fight against coat and current that his lungs are already white hot and desperately hungry for oxygen even before he decides to open the skirt so that he can escape .
his fingers fumble and fumble again until all of joes attention is drawn to some unfamiliar part of his brain which is screaming at him to open his mouth .
first , yellow spots and then oozing patches of red crowd in from the edges of his tightly closed lids .
joes hands let go of the paddle so that they can tear at the coat .
the thought occurs to him that even though the hudson is tormenting the kayak , it really is benign .
it is the coat that wants him dead .
he rips at its snaps and tears at the nelkro that is strangling him .
in his ears , a sound louder than a descending jet shrieks at joe to breathe deep .
when he fights off that command , his tormentor changes to the softest whisper .
take a breath .
just a sip .
just a sip .
just the smallest sip .
in his mind , filled with a thousand jumbled images , like debris from a flood , joe sees his coat sleeves writhing in the water like lamprey eels , like leeches , come to take his arms .
in horror , he flails his arms first to evade their attack , then , pounds them in counter attack .
just as the eels let go , red spreads full across his eyelids like a stunning sunset .
the shriek is back again .
it pierces his ears and this time joe does as he is told .
he opens his mouth to take a sipjust the slightest sip .
chapter fifteen flight and fight despite her persistent attempts to uncover her parents past , both by direct questioning and more than two hours of ogling before she fell asleep , prissi woke up the next morning feeling frustrated .
she decided to get out of the apartment to see if she could clear her mind .
although she felt too distracted to fly , the winger cheated as she walked down 21st street toward the east river by slightly spreading her wings to let the following wind give her a push .
she crossed first avenue and climbed the stairs to the fdr levee .
once on top , she took a deep breath of salty air and stared across the mile wide soup of gray water to the misty ghosts of what had been brooklyn .
when the worlds waters began to rise , a decision was made that manhattan was too important to the psyche of the country to abandon all of it .
when the same argument was made to save the other new york boroughs , southern senators , who had been forced to abandon new orleans early in the century , voted against providing funds for any other part of the city that was below sea level .
walkers continued to live in brooklyn in the heights , as well as in manhattan south of houston street , but that lifestyle was a complicated one of illegal squats , small boats , unpotable water , hydrocycles and dodging the house hawks .
standing on top of the levee , prissi watched a pod of dolphins cavorting in the choppy waters near the base of the williamsburg bridge .
ferries and a handful of pleasure boats , as well as a couple of gypsy water taxis , were tatting frothy gray lace with their wakes .
the teener tried to think of a good reason why her father would be so close mouthed about her mothers early years as a scientist .
after failing to breach that wall , she had badgered him about his own early life .
she had circled around and back to those years for over an hour before giving up .
it was obvious that he was hiding something , but what that something was remained a mystery .
prissi couldnt decide whether it was fear or shame or something more benign that was making her honest , forthright father deflect her questions .
what she did know was that if she couldnt get the truth from her father about his past , she certainly had no chance of getting him to divulge anything about her mother , especially about how and why she had died .
prissi celled nasty nancy to tell her that she had spent her first day home at the nypd digging around in the joshua fflowers papers trying to find out about a company dr. smarkzy had talked about .
prissi ignored her friends sniff when nancy heard smarkzys name .
knowing that nancy would have no intrinsic interest in helping her do research , prissi dangled bait .
the records she was going through were supposedly off limits to the public .
some kind of mystery about joe and jacks grandfather .
prissi inveigled her roomie by playing up nasty nancys great detective skills .
could , would nancy fly over to nypd and dig around with her ?
lunch would be prissis treat ?
nancy didnt say anything for awhile .
whats the name of the company ?
centsurety .
what business were they supposed to be in ?
something with meta mutation .
sounds more like a life insurance company .
ill bet there were a million of those kinds of companies back then .
how long ago ?
maybe sixty .
prissi fought off the twinges of guilt that were making her cheeks tighten .
if they dont show up much , they must have been really unimportant .
whats that noise ?
outdoors .
im over on the fdr .
well , cilly , thats certainly banal .
are you feeling your spirits lifting as you commune with nature ?
although she hated nancys nickname for her , prissi managed a laugh , more my scraggly hair and dirty wing tips , but , you know something , nano , the longer im at dutton , with all of that space , the harder it is to stay in the apartment for days on end .
hearing a nickname prissi didnt use much anymore softened nancys edge .
migod , prissi , dont go native .
actually ive got cabin fever , too .
two days with my parents is about thirty six hours too long .
come to nj and well shop .
no .
shopping makes me crazy .
i only want what i cant afford .
the silence was so long prissi looked to see if she had dropped the call .
finally , nancy whispered , look , ill meet you intwo hours and help you track down your mysterious company .
do you really think you can help ?
no , prissi , its my snarky self coming out .
i cant go another minute without seeing you .
my heart pines .
my lips .
yuck , nancy .
dont do that .
it gives me the creeps .
and it did give prissi the creeps even though she was 99well , maybe 91 , sure that nasty nancy did it just to get the response that prissi had just given her .
by the lions .
by the lions , unless it starts raining .
although prissi was eager to have nancys help , she didnt mind having two hours to kill , or probably more , since her roomie was always late .
since it was such a beautiful day , the pent up adolescent decided to go for a fly about .
standing at the edge of the levee , she took a moment to pre flight herself .
she eye hooked her vest and clipped her hair back from her face .
she checked to see that her wrist and ankle cuffs were tight .
she pushed and tugged her kanga pak to be sure that everything in it also was snugged tight .
she pointed a hand into the air , oriented it north and pushed the anemometer button on her mypodwest southwest at 12 knots .
prissi figured that was enough wind to give her a good workout without exhausting herself .
she flapped , kicked and was in the air .
she was feeling so upbeat she considered immediately flying out over the water , but all wingers were trained to fly for at least three minutes before going anyplace where it might be difficult to land .
usually , prissi was intrepid , but , with her shoulder having popped twice lately , she decided to be cautious .
winging was no different than swimming .
a muscle pull , a charley horse , low blood sugar or volatile weather , and what should have been fun , could turn life threatening in an instant .
prissi dropped her right shoulder , half tucked that wing and veered south .
she climbed to just over twenty meters and followed the levee .
when the waters around new york first had begun to rise , francis phange , a senator from massachusetts and leader of the ecoists caucus , had managed to stall federal permitting by the environmental projection agency to the army corps of engineering to construct a levee around the entire island of manhattan .
his argument , and that of his party , had been that since it was big business that had caused , or accelerated global warming and it was big business that had used its political clout to delay taking action against gw until it was too late , then it was big business that should suffer the consequences .
big business needed to be taught a lesson .
since the lesson was to be taught to the arrogant people of new york , the representatives of many of the big ag and big service states joined forces with phange .
even after the permits finally were issued , phange and his allies managed to stall federal funding .
the young governor of new york , dewitt clinton , the mayor , and a coterie of major new york city business leaders tried to put together a regional coalition to fund the rescue project , but both new jersey and connecticut saw the situation as an opportunity , after two hundred fifty years , to get out from under gothams shadow .
after a ten year battle , the federal government did provide funding , but the enabling legislation specified that the levee was not to extend south of houston street .
wall street was to be sacrificed to expiate the capitalist pride and greed that had cost the country years of economic well being during the great foreclosure exposure of 2008 2016 .
since it was just after the morning rush hour , prissi was one of the few wingers in the air along the fdr .
of those who were flying , almost all were going uptown .
as she flew further south toward houston street , the buildings along the levee began to be more rundown .
piles of trash dotted the curbs .
the people below her who were walking on the levee or riding their bikes seemed to be mostly from the southern hemisphere .
once she flew past where the levee turned west along houston street , prissi entered a twilight area of the city .
all of the buildings south of the levee had been declared uninhabitable more than forty years before however from the number of small boats in the streets and the number of vegetable gardens and grills on the roofs , it was obvious the area in what once had been called little italy and the bowery , still had lots of people living above the water line , although below the poverty line .
a few blocks further south , the number of boats shrank and the shorter buildings canted in all directions as a result of the water soaked land beneath them .
the taller ones , since they had been more valuable at the time , had been interlaced together with steel girders and guy wires as a temporary measure while the political battles had been fought .
now , decades later , the steel beams holding them together were a rusted web .
every couple of months an adventurous , usually newly fledged , winger , would be killed trying to nightfly through the maze of corroded steel .
prissi herself had felt a tug to try her skills in that deadly puzzle , but if something happenedshe was hurt or stopped by a housing hawk overflying the ruinsshe would get her wings clipped until she was twenty one .
even though she had only been flying for a year , the young winger could not imagine going back to being earth bound .
prissi raised her chin , dropped her feet and flew toward a sun clawing its way up a ladder of clouds in the eastern sky .
at seventy five meters the air was appreciably colderher mypod displayed an effective air temperature of 42 .
when eats got below forty , wingers had to be extra careful of becoming exhausted .
the girl climbed until she was higher than most of the decrepit ruins along the edge of the island .
she spread her wings as far as she could , then tilted them slightly forward to get more lift .
as she went into a sustained glide , she opened her mouth wide and shouted , freeieekin fenomenal !
a second later she began singing a horribly off key rendition of the dylantones anthem from the 70s , blown in the wind .
how many years must a girl look up , before she can fly in the sky ?
prissi began alternating wing beats so that she slalomed back and forth , from over the river to almost brushing against the sides of the buildings .
as she sang and slalomed her way south , the buildings got worse .
some structures remained intact but a corner had sunk into the sludge beneath so that they seemed to lean forward in anticipation .
others had huge cracks which ran from ground level up to their crenellated tops .
the sight of so much destruction wrought by the worlds rising seas began to depress prissi and caused her to change her plan .
instead of circling around the tip of the island , she banked toward the river and felt the westerly wind shift behind her .
taking advantage of those winds , she beat hard as she followed the skeletal remains of the williamsburg bridge east into brooklyn .
as she flew farther east , she began to climb , first past one hundred fifty and then two hundred meters .
the eat dropped to 14 degrees .
her cheeks felt like they were on fire from the cold .
two hundred fifty meters was the highest she had ever flown and almost twice as high as her teener permit allowed .
the view was spectacular .
looking east , she could see long island with its scores of islands , formed from where the waters had risen along the low lying areas , looking like an immense bolt of polka dotted material .
far to the east she thought she could see an intense , unbroken green which she guessed was the pale , the area of wilderness that grew up after the great fire ended the ticklish situation .
prissi flew east until she could see the details of broken windows and rusty stains on the abandoned jfk airport towers and terminals jutting out from the waters on the northeast corner of jamaica bay .
after checking the time , prissi made a sweeping turn away from the sun and to the south and west until she was flying above the coast line .
looking down , she witnessed a giant school of fish , changing shape like an amoeba , as it followed the contours of the shore .
when she got to sheepshead , she dropped down to one hundred meters and turned north .
she flew over prospect park , then , crossed back into manhattan by flying over the triple towers of the brooklyn bridge .
from prissis height , the southern tip of manhattan looked as if it had been destroyed by bombs .
twenty story high piles of interlocked debris were the cairns created when wall street skyscrapers had fallen .
they reminded prissi of the drip castles she had made with the sands on lake tanganyikas shore .
dropping down to twenty meters , prissi skirted the southern edge of the island , dismissed the urge to swing out to liberty , and began flying north along the west edge of the island just above the wide brown swath of the hudson river .
by the time she flew over the holland tunnel memorialone of the early victims of the rising waterprissi wasnt sure that she could make it to the datarium .
fifteen seconds later , the exhausted girl wasnt sure she could even make it back to the relative safety north of the levee .
prissi berated herself for being so stupid and for pushing the limits with her high flying antics .
she veered right so that if she faltered , she would be over land , but a forced landing in the area beneath her was almost as dangerous , although of a very different type , than being forced down over the hudson .
prissis growing fear began to crowd out her goal .
the teener fought the urge to pant .
she fought the urge to give in to the cold that had found its way deep into her bones .
she pushed back the notion that her wings were too heavy to lift .
she yelled at herself that she wasnt tired .
she whispered to herself to set a goal .
ten more beats .
she made that .
she paused for one beat to rest , lost altitude , then set another goal .
eight beats .
she made that , too , but her wings were quivering and her altitude had dropped to less than five meters .
six more .
prissi could see the wavering shadow of the levee just two blocks ahead .
four .
five .
three more beats .
when prissi landed on the broken surface of the houston levee , she landed hard .
she caught a toe , started to plunge forward , but managed to avoid disaster by grabbing a corner of a levee bench .
she spread her wings and leaned forward so that her elbows rested on her knees .
over the next three minutes her breaths went from white hot , to fiery red , to warm .
as the pain and nauseating fear slowly subsided , it was replaced with a pride that made her muscles glow like after a deep tissue massage .
she had made it .
she unclipped her hair and worked shaky fingers though the damp tangled strands .
to be sure she was okay and to give the last of her fear a chance to evaporate , prissi decided to walk for a couple of blocks before making the last leg of her flight .
she was taking slow steps on eighth avenue , just north of walker park , when three keds with dirty hands and over sized clothes came lurching out of an alley and across her path .
prissi guessed that they werent more than twelve or thirteen years old .
with their glazed eyes , soggy plastic bags and over sized sneaker shuffle , she guessed they had to be high on ethanol .
prissi considered veering toward the other side of the street , but she figured that , even if they wanted to roust her , their reflexes were so moked that they wouldnt be able to do much more than the shuffling they were doing .
the boys stopped as soon as they realized prissi was alone .
as they stared at one another , the shortest boy , who had greasy black strands of hair framing a wraith thin face and piggy eyes , which now were fighting off the vacancy he had spent the morning acquiring , scuttled sideways .
the other two , featureless in the shadows of their hoods , reluctantly dropped their bags of dreams and took two steps closer to prissi in an attempt to herd her toward the building .
despite her total exhaustion just minutes before , prissi could feel a runnel of adrenaline begin flowing through her body .
the waifwraiths took another half step .
their quarry bared her teeth , barked , and surprised them by leaping toward the building rather than away .
prissi planted her left foot high on the wall , pushed and flapped .
she dug her right foot into the rough brownstone and flapped again .
by the third flap , she was three meters in the air .
the boys jumped forward to catch her heels , but their coordination was gone .
they crashed into one another and then into the wall .
prissi took another step up the wall , then pushed off with both feet , dropped her right wing to turn and began flying up the avenue .
she barked and barked until her throat grew sore .
one girl .
three boys .
bad odds for odd badboys .
the chemical rush was more than enough to sustain her all the way to her destination .
coming up fifth avenue , she climbed , flipped a double somersault , dove , and came in at such a steep angle for her landing that her momentum bounced her up a half dozen of nypds venerable steps .
she yiked twice after completing that foolish stunt .
because she was intent on picking at a new excrescence on her nose , prissi didnt notice nasty nancy getting off a uni bus until her roomie yodeled .
when nancy got closer and saw prissis bright eyes and ruddy cheeks , she asked , what happened ?
had to beat up some boys .
lifes little joys .
where ?
prissi pointed south nancy interpreted that to mean that prissi didnt want to talk about it any more , and prissi interpreted her normally self absorbed roomies questions to mean that nancy didnt want to talk about why she had come on a bus instead of flying .
prissi kept her eyes averted from nancys wings because she knew if she looked , shed see that nasty nancy sloans growing weight had finally resulted in her pinions being clipped .
lets go find centsurety .
they climbed past the lionspatience and fortitudenow so worn by the patience and fortitude of new yorks air and water pollution that they were more like the smooth shape of sheep rather than their predators .
just inside the datariums massive doors , they paused to look in the display cases .
prissi had been to nypd many times , but every time she passed the display cases , she stared in amazement at the diversity of the books that used to be publishedbooks as small as her thumb and as large as a desktop .
leading nancy back through the librarys maze of corridors , prissi told her friend about the pix pequod jones had shown her .
when they arrived at the datarians desk , prissi returned jones smile with her brightest eyes and a smile twice the size of the old cherubs as she explained why she needed nancys help .
prissi thought her cheek stretching product might be losing its power because it took jones a long minute before he nodded his approval .
although prissi herself had made her first acquaintance of a microfiche reader two days before , it only took her a couple of minutes to teach nancy what she had learned about operating the ancient , temperamental machines .
prissi was a little surprised when nancy proved to like the archaic technology as much as she herself did .
part of the attraction was the novelty of the clunky moving parts of the reader itself , but a bigger part of the charm for prissi was looking at the grainy images before her .
she could almost feel the poor quality paper that once was used to deliver the newz .
taking a break for her research , she scanned back and forth to see how many pages of print were contained in one days edition , then , multiplied that by the circulation figure she noticed on the masthead .
the number astounded her .
it was hard for her to fathom the resources of lumber , water , electricity , petroleum and who knew what else to produce 61 million pages of newzprint a day , three hundred sixty five days a yearand that just for one city .
it was while calculating those resources that prissi noticed that the logo she was familiar with , all the newz fit to cast , had once been something different .
their search was slow , mostly boring , but not totally unproductive .
a series of small articles in the times surfaced .
nancy found a research note in a mutancy journal .
there were two cygnetic foundation filings .
three hours after they started , the girls took a break to put together what they had found .
not without a couple of roomie arguments , the girls came to the conclusion that centsurety had been a small research oriented company , or more accurately , institute , which had been funded with a series of grants awarded by cygnetic and the fflowers family foundation .
as dr. smarkzy had said , centsurety had been based in cold spring harbor on long island , but was not directly affiliated with the famous research center located there .
the research notes indicated that centsurety scientists were pushing against some of the more intractable limits of mutancy , including delayed fledging .
centsuretys director , a man named richard baudgew used the phrase meta mutancy to describe a process of combining the major organ systems of different organisms .
centsurety was waiting a license to pursue research in that area .
a later article in the times reported a whistleblower had provided documentation to suggest that some of the science being done by centsurety was going beyond the ethical limits established by the bio ethics standards taskforce .
in response , best had arranged for two yale bio ethicists to investigate the work that the centsurety scientists were doing however an explosion and fire had gutted the facility two days before what was supposed to be an unannounced visit .
two scientists , roan winslow and glen laureby had died in the fire .
an investigation concluded that the catastrophe had started with a pinhole leak in a tank of hydrogen .
it was nancy who found a pix published in newsday showing a group of mostly young scientists hovering close to a grinning joshua fflowers .
she poked prissi who was leaning close to the screen of the reader next to her to take a look .
do you recognize any of these ?
prissi studied the fuzzy image of a number of people standing around in a laboratory .
in addition to the woman she thought might be her mother , some of the other faces were familiar because of the picture she had been given by pequod jones .
joshua fflowers was the only person named .
the others were noted as his colleagues .
the accompanying article described rumors , denied by fflowers , that centsurety scientists had made a breakthrough in delayed fledging .
a couple .
look at fflowers .
he certainly looks smug , doesnt he ?
handsome , too .
like someone else in the family .
what did your dad say about fflowers ?
he said he had seen him a couple of times at conferences , but didnt know him , but when i mentioned centsurety , he blew a mother chip .
told me to get interested in something else .
first , nancy chortled , theres nothing like a parental no to motivate .
hes hiding something .
nasty nancy patted prissi on the arm , just like his daughter .
nancys tone suggested that she was getting ready to drop one of her patented brain bombs .
meaning ?
you andta dajack fflowers .
youve been so coy about your buddingfriendship with the grandson of the planets nearly richest man .
what happened after we had our tiff ?
prissi knew that what nasty nancy was really asking was for prissis to tell hery that what had happened at bissell wasnt a big deal , but the way prissi saw it , the fact that she had invited nancy to help her said that all was forgiven .
she wasnt inclined to do or say any more than that .
instead , she gave nancy a roomie rap on her shoulder i dont want you overwhelmed with joy for me .
it aint like that .
ah , protecting me from love , the one emotion i cant handleunlike jealousy , envy , hate , anger and depression .
prissi forced herself to laugh , then , stared hard at nancy .
what ?
im trying to make a decision .
prissi looked at her friend , looked down at the information nancy had helped her gather , and allowed herself to be overcome by the events of the last twenty four hours .
she mentally shuffled through the images of her mothers death certificate , jacks appearance , his disappearance , her fathers strange behavior , the attack by the keds before she asked , if you had been judas , what would have been your price ?
you mean to reveal to the entire dutton student body that you broke your personal code of cynical honor and became enamored of a rich , arrogant bissellian ?
something like that .
i wouldnt .
i couldnteven if i wanted to .
im a member of aa .
prissi nodded , amours anonymous .
nancys body contorted in an exaggerated slump .
i , too , am lost .
prissi was used to nancy having weekly swainswoons .
who , now ?
electron boy ?
migod , no .
hes such a prion .
twisting and turning and folding everything around .
then who ?
guess .
i thought i just did .
guess again .
prissi went for the dark horse .
dog dalmain .
nancy batted her crew cut eyelashes as she flashed her village idiot smile .
i think he wants to have my baby .
itd be a beautiful gob of protoplasm .
prissi weighed the possibilities before asking , secret share ?
nancy nodded and said , deal .
tell all .
when prissi remained silent , nancy gave in and gave the correct response , words ensnare .
i saw jack last night .
ultra epic uber shock !
before prissi agreed to tell nasty nancy the story she was begging to hear , she insisted they scan all of the material they had discovered and input it into both of their mypods .
as soon as they finished , prissi delayed further by suggesting they leave to get something to eat .
they walked around the corner of the library so they could sit in the sun in bryant park .
the small park was about half full .
at the north end , near the indian and cote divoire vegan stands , a flock of wingers were slumped on their castplast perches drinking frothy emoos and picking at eggplant kebabs , lafels and small balls of deep fried bosmotic rice .
on the other side of the park , the tables were filled with walker workers drinking irn bru and scarfing jersey9s with kraut and catzup .
prissi and nancy made their way to the middleground where tall stools for walkers were placed alongside perches .
in a silent reminder that prissi had offered to pay for lunch , nancy climbed up on a stool and tossed her pak on the counter space next to her to save a place for her roomie .
what do you want ?
prissi asked .
something unhealthy , please .
unhealthy caloric or unhealthy chemical ?
nancy flared her clipped wings in defiance .
both , if they have it .
prissi came back with batter fries and a tube of bakon cheez sqrt for nancy and pom seeds and a bottle of ao storm for herself .
nancy looked at prissis tray with a frown and whined , traitor .
i read those anti oxidant drinks can kill you .
i almost fell out of the sky today .
i have to be good .
prissi froze at the implication of what she had said .
she sighed in relief when nancy smiled ruefully and said , yeah , well if you have to be good , i have to be beyond perfection .
im starting to look like a bumble bee .
i have to lose eight kees before i can flap a wing .
which deprezzes me , which makes me want to eat .
so , im eating .
and if you were a trueblu friend , youd eat with me .
cmon eat .
be like me .
be deprezzed .
skru up .
i know you , too , have a deep seated wish to be a walker again .
no , i have a not as sub conscious as it once was wish to be a big butted lt winger , which doesnt work very well .
the food was mostly gone , as was the sun , before prissi finished her story .
she opened her hands into a finger bloom , so , what do you think ?
i think jack is coy .
thats it ?
coincidences , inexplicables , freeieekin codes and all we have is coy jack ?
we , especially you , dont have coy jack .
i dont think anyone has coy jack .
god , he is so oompa but i dont trust him .
why is he doing what he is doing ?
prissi offered up jacks implausible excuse , to help find joe ?
and why would he do that ?
youre the one that told me they didnt mesh .
maybe because jack wants to be a hero .
if he found joe , hed be that , plus it would be a way to rub joes face in it .
obviously , he came to see me because he knows joe was my nqb .
he thought if i knew , then , with his charm , he could get it out of me .
nancy laughed , and plenty more probably .
yeah , when the poles freeze over .
hey , could be happening .
check the weather .
you said you didnt get to finish your talk with jack .
if your theory is true , then why would he leave before he had any information about joe ?
and where did he go ?
the way nancy asked the question , prissi knew that her friend had a better answer than what she had been able to come up with .
i dont know .
maybe homing with friends .
nancy bellowed so loudly that several people looked toward where the girls were sitting .
youve used that word twice .
friends ?
cilly , think of what youre saying .
people as rich as jack and joe fflowers dont have friends .
they dont have friends because they cant have friends .
they either have enemies or sycophants or bambi eyed dreamers , or predators .
even if they could have a friend , it would have to be a putinly rich friend , otherwise jack or joe would always question whether it really was a friend or just another person trying to get something .
and if the friend is a rich kid , then think about that for a second .
what rich family is going to hide a kid from another , even richer , family ?
so , joe and i arent friends ?
youre his , but he isnt yours .
friends trust each other .
like us .
did joe trust you enough to tell you what he was going to do ?
no ?
so , if he didnt do that , it meant he didnt trust you , and if he didnt trust you , then , by definition , he aint your friend .
qed .
even though prissi had ambivalent feelings about joe , it still wasnt easy for her to hear nancys logic .
more in her defense than because she believed it to be true , she said , maybe he was protecting me .
from what ?
maybe from lying .
if i knew where he had gone and a hawk or teacher asked , then id have to lie .
which is what a friend should be happy to do .
prissi was sure she didnt want to go down a path she and nancy had traversed before in late night lights out sessions .
instead , she asked , so what do you think ?
my guess is that jack may be trying to connect with some rad eco walker group that might have been part of , or know about , joes going underground .
maybe thats why he looked so graggy .
playing the part .
maybe hes sincere .
when nancy chortled a half eaten fry exploded from her mouth , flew past prissis shoulder and crashed into the back of her perch .
ick .
nancy rolled her eyes in a way that reminded prissi of a qatar doll .
my poor lost fry is disgusting , but a dirty , stinking boy warms your soul .
i cant help it .
im fifteen .
well , im fifteen and i can easily help it .
youre an anomaly .
nancy smiled in appreciation at prissis compliment .
tell the lovely anomaly again about the numbers on the paper .
213 ?
sfe b tzt k .
nancy wrote what prissi said on the counter with a finger dipped in catzup .
k is probably jack .
so if k is a j , then we go back a letter in the alphabet and tzt becomes sys , see you soon , which really just confirms that youre on the right track .
and he wants to see you at 213 something street in a lower apartment or basement , or , if the numbers are off by one like the letters , 212 or , maybe , 102 .
but what about the sfe b ?
sf could be about safety .
or san franciscowhats left of it .
or , the arrow refers to those letters and not the numbers .
so one down from sfe b would be tgf c .
does that do anything for you ?
no .
well , hes not a genius and i am , so lets see if the skip a letter backward rule also applies to the sfe b , which would be red a .
oh , yeah .
red a .
red a. nancy scooted off her perch and did a quick war dance .
and what , my boarding school friend , what would be the very first thing a boarding school student would think of if i said red a. prissi shook her head , i have no idea .
ready ?
does red a mean ready ?
cmon , cilly , think .
if a not too smart boarding school guy , you know , a bissell kinda guy , was making a bad pun , what would a red a mean ?
prissi jumped off her perch and did the same dance that nancy had done .
scarlet letter .
hawthorne .
right .
hawthorne .
probably the name of the street .
lets see if im right .
both girls pulled out their mypods and raced to see who could be first to input hawthorne .
prissi slunk back on her perch in defeat .
aw , stinkin freesia .
eleven hawthornes .
thats a lot of possibilities .
how are we supposed to figure that out ?
nancy shook her head as her fingers kept flying over the mypod pad .
when she finally looked up , she was grinning in triumph .
let me ask you , my occasionally sagacious friend , if you were looking for a lost soul , where would you be more apt to look ?
uptown or mudtown ?
mudtown .
correct .
and since he is boy and , worse , a bissell boy , you can figure the code is not too , too cypherotically cryptic .
so , to hell with all the hawthorne permutations , my deb card is bet on a little street in mudtown .
if , my beauty , if you want to limb lock your mysterious scion , fly your not quite fat butt down to 213 or 102 hester street and look in the basement window .
scarlet letter .
hester prinne .
and theres just one hester street ?
just one , and its in mudtown , so that has to be it .
what about the arrow ?
whats that mean ?
when nancys shoulders went up in a shrug , the corners of her mouth drew down in a frown .
dont know .
maybe cupid .
cupid with his arrow .
again , nancy leered and , after a second , prissi leered back .
i cant go there .
i already got attacked today in the village and mudtowns even worse .
prissi wrapped her arms around her wings .
ooooh , ooooh , its far too dangerous for me .
maybe , just maybe , you could go for me ?
you knowas my best , bester , bestest friend .
prissi accompanied this improbable suggestion with a simpering smile .
as soon as she saw the anguished look on nancys face , prissi knew she had made a horrible mistake .
nancy seemed on the verge of tears when she said , stop it .
you know im cant go with you .
the only place im going is home .
prissi apologized , im sorry , nano , i forgot youre clipped .
its hard to imagine us not flying to waterville to get good bad food .
i 've got to get home .
nancy made a theatrical tata with her hand .
okay .
maybe , ill let him languish for a day or so .
i can use the time to figure out what devious things jacks grandfather was doing sixty years ago .
or , maybe i can track down some of the people mentioned in the stuff we foundyou know , maybe get more names for the people in that pix .
sound okay ?
nasty nancy nodded approval of the plan as she threw their trash down the co gen pipe .
on their way out , prissi read the plaque at the parks entrance .
i wonder why it used to be called needle park .
nancy did a community theater imitation of furrowed brows .
maybe because scholars sat out here after a long day researching or writing about something of interest only to themselves and four other people in the world .
they staggered out of nypd , came here , got hyper caffeinated on triple esos and needled one another .
prissi shook off nancys explanation like a catcher with an over eager pitcher .
you dont think it was a place filled with immigrant or grandmotherly knitters ?
nope , that would be needles park .
maybe an egyptian obelisk used to be sited here .
probably just some guy who donated something , or maybe it had a lot of pine trees here once .
ooops .
look .
you want that one ?
a yellow rubberized bi bus , with its lower deck of perches nearly empty while most of the upper level seats were full of walkers , pulled up to the curb .
nancy nudged her head into prissis wing .
tytle .
tytle back and thanks a lot .
nasty nancy scuttled toward the bus looking , to prissi , like a baby beaver returning to the comfort of its mother .
when the bi bus made a huge sigh as it pushed itself back up on its air cushion , prissi felt like the words had been taken out of her mouth .
after the bus disappeared into the twilight , prissi opened her kanga to make sure everything was secure .
when she was satisfied , she started to read the winds for pre flight .
as she flew south toward gramercy park , prissi fought the urge to make a quick detour over the hester street area of mudtown .
her eyes and mind were tired from hours at the fiche reader and puter screens , but the fatigue from the tedium of what she had been doing only reinforced her desire for physical exertion .
the thing holding her back was the fear left over from the morning .
it wasnt so much the attack by the keds as the fear she had felt when she was over the hudson and her body was refusing to do her bidding .
she flew a half dozen tight figure eights as she considered what to do .
the sun , defeated by the day , was glowing orange behind new jerseys hills .
to the north , strips of l l lights , green for launch and red for landing , illuminated office buildings .
the sky was swirling with wingers leaving work .
to the south , the decrepit buildings of mudtown had already fallen into a shadowy murk .
prissi considered how , if she waited a few more minutes , she would be able to douse her light and fly as a shadow against shadows .
prissi slowly flapped her wings as she keyed in the hester street address into her mypod before dropping a wing and heading down broadway .
as she crossed 14th street and union square , she fought a flutter in her chest which she told herself was nerves and nothing else .
she counted down to first street .
broadway ended in the next block where it ran into the houston street levee .
prissi doused her lights and looked down the crepuscular tunnel made by the dark and decrepit buildings slung along both sides of the canal made by a submerged bowery street .
the small girl canted her wings to rise above the height of the abutting buildings .
she wanted to avoid guy wires and bracing girders as well as to keep an eye on those citizens who hovered around the coproquette roof fires cooking their dinners .
when she came within a half klik of her destination , her mypod screen displayed five small amber arrows .
she continued flying over the bowery before making a wide right turn onto hester streeta narrow duct of oily backwater .
the last arrow disappeared and a star flashed on her screen .
prissi dropped down until she was less than three meters above the sludgy canal .
as she flew close to a five story brownstone with rotting wrought iron balconies , which reminded prissi of kids braces on the crooked french doors they protected , the mypod squeaked like a mouse in a cats mouth .
prissi passed the house , climbed , looped and dropped back down until she was flying just above the lintels of the first floor windows .
in the dying light it looked like every window pane in 213 was missing except for two on the fourth floor .
the building listed toward the sidewalk like an old bum staring at a coin in the gutter .
a peeling red door sat at the top of a set of shopworn granite steps .
using the burned out street lights , which tipped in every direction like the candles on a week old birthday cake , as a yardstick , prissi estimated that the first three steps of the stairs were underwater .
the cautious girl was looping back to make a third pass when something passed through the pinions on her right wing .
panicked , she side slipped and slammed into the headless remains of a streetlight hidden in the murk .
her right shoulder popped .
she slid down the pole into the cold waist high water desperately fighting to keep the undersides of her wings dry .
it took almost no oil to keep a set of wings from flying .
she started to swear , but thought better of drawing even more attention to herself .
her injured wing begged to be lowered , but prissi knew that if she gave in to that , it could take an hour of grooming before she could fly again .
after swiveling her head to see if she could see who had shot an arrow at her , prissi began slogging her way down the street to the nearest stoop .
she tried to angle across an open space but was stopped by a submerged wrought iron fence .
she changed direction and began hopping to keep her wings dry .
by the time she reached the nearest stoop , she was breathing heavily .
she half flapped to knock the water from her wingtips , and used her hands to squeegee water from her pant legs .
prissis refuge was a five story brownstone with missing windows and a smashed front door .
as prissi climbed the front steps , she peered into the darkness behind the broken door and wondered whether it was more likely that a ten kilo rat or a sexually starved criminally insane alcoholic would be coming out to make her acquaintance .
she took two steps closer to the opening , listened , stared , and finally decided that it was probably safe .
she leaned against the building and took a dozen deep breaths .
her whole body began to quiver as she considered how stupid she had been .
she took a cran slam from her kanga and drank the whole thing in five gulps .
within a minute the glucose , oxygen enriched drink had stopped her shakes .
she pushed her shoulder against the building , but nothing happened .
that setback did make her swear , but she did so quietly .
as she stepped back to get a running start on a second attempt to relocate her wing , she heard a high pitched squeal .
she leaned out over the edge of the stoop to see an obviously cannibalized , graggy looking hydrocycle , with its right pontoon nearly buried in the murky water , hurtling around the corner from the bowery end of the block .
prissi took two quick steps and slammed herself against the building .
the fire in her shoulder burned twice as bright .
the shoulder half popped back in and then stuck .
the burning pain blistered sweat onto her forehead and somersaulted her stomach .
she whispered , dont puke .
the cycle was less than a hundred meters away and coming fast .
a rooster tail of water being thrown high above the rear paddle wheel intermittently caught a shard of light .
prissi ignored the nearly paralyzing fear of what would happen if she launched herself from the stoop and her wing failed her .
the two blue jay winged men on the cycle shook their fists at her as they veered her way .
the one in the back , who was wearing some kind of huge furry hat that made him look like a mythical beast with the head of a buffalo and the body of a man , reached down .
prissi hurled herself against the building again , and pushed off as hard as she could .
her first flap was lopsided and she pitched toward the water .
with her second , her shoulder snapped back into place and she gained a meter of height .
as the cycle slid beneath her , prissi looked down to see buffalo man reaching up with a homemade grappling hook .
the hook caught her ankle .
prissi dropped a wing and spun herself .
her ankle twisted out of the hooks grasp .
she kicked backwards , flapped and was free .
the hydrocycle whined as it made a sharp turn , but it was too late .
it slammed into the submerged fence .
both men were thrown and the riderless machine began an erratic course down the street .
prissi , absolutely sky high on adrenaline , was swerveingback toward the men with the idea of taunting them , when , out of the corner of her eye , she saw a shadow , something blue and white , point something at her .
she beat her right wing up and down to turn sharply , then , pounded both as she climbed toward the top of the buildings .
something whizzed past her .
without thought she mashed her wings toward the bruised sky as the arrow arced higher before falling back into the water .
in eight beats prissi was high enough that she could pass over the tops of the buildings on the north side of the street .
flapping as fast as she could , praying that she wouldnt hit a wire or clothes line , prissi skimmed north over the wrecked tops of mudtowns furzy homes toward the lights and safety of her home .
as prissi flew she wondered at the blue and white splotch she had seen .
jacks wings were blue and whiteand there was an arrow in the code he had left .
a shiver , like a cold snake , slithered from prissis head all the way to her feet .
that night , prissi had to wait until after eight before her father came home .
she had a thousand questions for him , and even started to show him the things she had found in the library , but he cut her off .
he had work to do and he had already told her to find a different hobby .
if she didnt want to listen to him , if she wasnt willing to be responsible for the freedom he had given her , if she didnt appreciate all of the sacrifices he was making to send her to dutton , then he would take her back to africa , where , at least , he would be happier .
chapter sixteen enmity and amity just after eight the next morning , prissi was in the air and flying north along the east river levee .
although it was friday and only just past rush hour , the city seemed sadly empty .
very few wingers were along the river or flying across from queens .
the ten meter flame jutting from the buildings rubble made the old united nations memorial look , as it always did to prissi , like a gas well being flared off .
north of fiftieth street , prissi veered out over the river and split the distance between manhattan and roosevelt island .
she swept under the remnants of the queensboro bridge .
the sun over her right shoulder warmed her right wing , which was feeling good .
a balmy wind blowing out of the southwest lifted her wings .
she climbed just past fifty meters , pulled her knees up to her chest and soared .
as she approached 90th street , orange helibuoys at thirty and sixty meters pushed her farther out from the island and away from the site of where the members of the ghost brigade of darfur had exploded three bombs in an attempt to breach the levee and flood the upper east side .
a half dozen e cops , three wingers and three walkers , followed her flight with their weapons held at half rest .
spiceville , the area between 138th and 149th streets , from river to river was home or hovel to a great number of immigrants and foreign students who went to columbia international university .
many of the dilapidated buildings that crowded against one another were owned by foreign governments .
from a law passed back in 2068 that was intended to pay homage to , but also diffuse , the growing nationalism of many middle east , far east and african countries , certain buildings , owned by foreign governments , were afforded a sovereignty equal to that of an embassy .
one unintended consequence of the harmony act was that those sovereign buildings were not subject to city or state building regulations or codes .
when aspiring nations were dragged back into the fifth world by war , disease , or , most often , corruption , their sovereign buildings were left to rot .
as prissi flew a tightening spiral over the motley neighborhood , she studied the rooftop tent cities and networks of eight and ten story buildings lashed together with ratlines , rope and wood bridges , and metal ladders .
on 141st street , she saw where a lattice of narrow steel beams connected the roof of one brownstone to another across the street .
most of the platform was covered in sheets of badboard while the shacks and sheds , hunched close together like huddled beggars , were constructed of re used re side .
even as high as she was , prissi could smell heavily spiced grilled meat and the fetid sweetness of rotting garbage .
prissi keyed her mypod for a ps report .
the public service screen scrolled up , identified the area , and reported that the neighborhood was red level for crimes against property but just a blue for crimes against personsalthough females were seventy percent of the victims .
of those , only twelve percent were wingers .
prissi knew that it wasnt that the area was kind to wingers , but rather , that most wingers were smart enough not to come to the neighborhood .
it was because of that dearth of wingers that , prissi had to fly two blocks west of where she wanted to be before she found a spot where she thought she could safely land without catching a wing on a clothes line or sliding on a smear of garbage .
despite her caution the teeners left leg slid out from her as it landed on something as dark as the pavement but much slicker .
she threw out her right wing to catch herself and managed to keep from falling backward onto her head , but at the expense of hearing a loud pop in her wing joint .
hieronymus freeieekin bosch .
not again .
heaving zeusus .
the pain was so sharp that prissi bent forward to vomit onto the street to try to rid herself of it .
after brushing her lips clean , she hobbled over to the sidewalk and limped along until she came to a narrow unfenced space between two buildings .
she looked all around before she scuttled three steps deep into the dark space , took a deep breath and slammed herself against the moldy wall of the building on her right .
she hit the wall so hard , her head snapped sideways , but nothing else happened .
she screamed something that if heard at dutton would have put her on skru kru for 6 hours .
she shook her head violently , sucked down as much air as she could hold and slammed into the wall a second time .
the same pop , the same exquisite pain , the same puke , although not as much , and her wing was relocated .
in the ten months since she had first flown , prissi had dislocated her wings seven timesevery time on the right .
she had considered telling her father so that he could put in an insurance claim , but she thought that as she got a little older , the ball at the end of the humerus would expand enough to better fit the socket .
anyway , she always told herself , a dislocated wing was better than lockwing .
prissi favored her wing as she walked back toward the river and richard baudgews apartment .
in the picnic pix , the man she was going to see was looking at the camera with a pair of xxuv sunglasses in one hand , as if he had just taken them off for the photographer , and a dark drink in the other .
he was a tiny man , by far the shortest man in the group , shorter even than two of the women .
below the swirl of brown hair that fell across his forehead , his eyes were so deep set that it was hard to tell what color they were .
the eyebrows were dark and curved in a way that reminded prissi of a wooly caterpillar .
his nose was as small and dainty as his bow shaped mouth .
his chin was as small and smooth as a chicken egg .
from her experience with a couple of her teachers at dutton , prissi guessed from the pix that baudgew had been in his early thirties and smart , cynical , sexless and very funny in a cruel way .
the building , whose armor doors and elevator were broken , was a prime example of the afro mask architectural renascence which had permeated the area in the 2040s .
prissi climbed to the fifth , and top floor , and rang the briz .
a minute later , safe behind its slide screen , a shadowed face with bright bird eyes stared at prissi .
the apartment dwellers breath caught so sharply that his , yes ?
became two long syllables .
brightening her smile as much as she could , prissi said , hello , my name is priscillaprissi .
baudgews nose twitched as if he had gotten a whiff of tainted fish .
i assume the doors are broken again ?
when prissi nodded , he asked , are you selling somethingsweet ?
no , no sweets .
no selling .
im hoping you can help me with a school project .
i have a question about a pix i found .
when the old gnome stayed quiet , prissi continued , from a long time ago .
she pulled the pix from her kanga and held it up to the slide screen .
baudgews response was a pendulum swing from a moments pleasure to a cold distancing .
where did you get that ?
remembering that what pequod jones had allowed her to see what forbidden to the public , prissi stammered , iaa friend found itsomewhere .
im writing a paper about blind alleys in science .
prissi steeled herself , could i come in ?
the old mans head tipped ten degrees to the left and then to the right , like a parakeet on its perch , as he studied prissi through the hardened glass .
he stared at her with no more embarrassment than if she were a mannequin in a dress store .
finally , she heard four quick clicks and the door slowly opened .
prissi thought that , in person , the old man , dressed in a flowing paisley robe , resembled a eunuch in an ottoman court portrait .
his small pursed pale pink mouth looked like the end of a piece of chem lab hose .
given the neighborhood , prissi was surprised at the faded opulence of baudgews apartment before she remembered that a half century ago , new harlem as it was called then , was one of the most desirable locations in the city .
all of the oriental rugs , filigreed brassware , and heavily carved dark furniture again made her think of a turkish court .
as baudgew darted and glided quickly from living room to kitchen and back to living room carrying a brass tray with tiny cerulean blue cups , a pot of coffee and a dish of cardamom seeds , his silk robe swirled and swished about his cropped pajama pants .
prissi was sure that , if she were to walk to the far end of the long narrow , red wall papered living room , none of the pix she could see hanging there would be of her host with wife and children .
when he finished his hurly burly of hosting duties , the little man sat primly on a gold and ivory love seat and tightly tucked his robe close around his short , thick and , apparently hairless , legs .
the syrupy black coffee was poured and , at baudgews insistence , prissi agreed to float a cardamom seed on its surface before the old mans tiny , pink , strangely smooth hands reached out for the pix .
he held the image close to his face before snapping several of the faces with a lacquered fingernail .
his first words , of surpassing beauty and in the bloom of youth , were drenched in sarcasm .
he flipped the pix back onto the table .
when prissi leaned forward to recover it , she spilled a drop of coffee on the tray .
dr. baudgew sharply inhaled .
sorry .
i can be a little spasmotic .
the little mans mouth looked as though he has eaten something tart .
spasmotic ?
knowing that her welcome was wearing out faster than her knowledge was growing , prissi pointed to the pix , this is you , isnt it ?
the effete elf slightly nodded .
prissi touched the other faces that pequod jones had named .
when she herself repeated the names , baudgew agreed .
with tingling fingertips , prissi lightly touched the two faces of the couple holding hands , who are these two ?
oh , my .
those are the twin wizards , smart glen laureby and his smarter sidekick , roan winslow .
i think she might be mygreat aunt .
baudgew had a half smirk on his china doll lips as he leaned back and studied prissis face .
really ?
i dont see the resemblance .
is your great aunts name roan ?
prissi shook her head .
was her maiden name winslow ?
prissi was still considering that nora was an anagram of roan and didnt really hear baudgews question .
what ?
the petulant homunculus repeated , winslow .
was her name winslow ?
no .
i don think so .
is your great aunt a too smart person ?
prissi , not understanding the little mans animosity , ignored his comment .
she tapped the pix and asked , what did they do ?
baudgew paused for a second as he decided whether he wanted to be sidetracked .
do ?
why , science , of course .
what else do really smart people do ?
we were all scientists .
except those two were just a little smarter and a little quicker scientists than the rest of us .
we plodded .
they boundeduntil they got so far ahead of the pack , they got lost .
why ?
what happened ?
if you believe one of them to be a relative , i would be doing an egregious unkindness to say .
no .
i want to know .
i do .
the shriveled pixie tugged his robe even tighter around him .
thus spake pandora .
i do .
please .
they were working one weekend and there was an unfortunate explosion and fire and two too smart people disappeared .
disappeared ?
wasnt that kind of hard to doeven back then ?
a euphemism .
to protect youths innocence .
they were in the explosion .
a rather dramatic explosion .
given how large the explosion was and how fierce the fire that ensued , perhaps disappeared is not so much the euphemism .
baudgews hands exploded from his silk cuffs .
poof .
left just a belt buckle and a tooth or two .
and memoriessuch fond memories .
prissi looked closely at the picture again to see if she recognized her mother .
and where does pandora live ?
prissi caught herself in time to edit her answer .
the little man was setting off lots of her africa honed alarms .
in connecticut .
may i ask what you did at centsurety ?
why , of course .
asking questions has always been youths privilege .
do you in youth mean you , as in me , or as in all of us ?
baudgew wriggled in his robe at his cleverness .
prissi leaned down to the low table to pick up her cup .
when she sat back up , using a trick she had learned to cope with certain dutton boys , her body was several inches further away the from the dwarfish man .
all of you .
baudgew twisted on the couch so that he could look at prissi more directly as he coyly smiled , we made things .
what kind of things ?
oh , you know interesting things .
he reached over to slide his hand down prissis wing .
did you know that wings used to be interesting ?
a long time ago .
we were interested in wingsand things .
when baudgew stroked her wing a second time , prissi decided that it was time to go .
she stood , thanked her host and put the pix back in her kanga .
she paused for a second in thought before she suddenly reached down and , before her host could protest , scooped her cup and saucer and took them to the kitchen .
a second later , prissi was back in the living room and headed for the door , which baudgew was just opening .
even though he groped her a third time as she was half way out the door , she asked , may i ask why you live in this neighborhood ?
the old man raised a finger tip and theatrically wiped away a non existent tear .
though cain , though able , i cant leave elba , thus able in elba i remain .
his harsh little laugh and final touch of her feathers sent prissi bolting through the door .
the creeped out prissi stood on the cratered sidewalk outside baudgews home for ten minutes hoping that she would meet someone from his building .
he was such a bizarre little man that she was sure his neighbors would have lots of stories .
she was prepared to wait even longer , but a group of four boys , dressed in reds and treads crossed the street to be on her side .
after being attacked twice the day before , prissi didnt wait .
two hops , four flaps and she was out of reach .
the shortest boy shook his fist and yelled something .
it was arabic , but the phrase wasnt familiar to her .
she dipped a wing as she yelled , not today , zurga .
her small tormentor darted sideways to the gutter looking for something to throw at his taunter , but prissi was beyond range before he found anything suitable .
the urchin threw the half bottle anyway .
he laughed when it exploded in the street , and his friends laughed too , but prissi was sure that their laughter was directed at him .
prissi leveled off when she got to one hundred meters .
she was confused .
she was sure the woman in the picture was her mother .
the fact that roan was an anagram of nora seemed important .
but , baudgew said that she was dead .
as she flew cross town she thought of going back to the nypd to see what she might find out about roan winslow and glen laurebyand richard baudgew , but as she swerved south onto lenox avenue , she decided that before she did that , she needed to clear her head .
it was a beautiful day for flying .
at 96th street , at the top of central park , she turned west toward the hudson .
when she got to the river , she turned back south , but only for a few blocks .
on a sudden whim she banked west again and began flying across the river .
as soon as she was over the water , prissi had to fight the urge to breathe fast and fly faster .
from the licensing course all wingers took , prissi knew all about aerohydrarophobia however she had never felt its symptoms before .
but , the after effects of nearly crashing from exhaustion the day before , and the fact that she had dislocated her wing less than two hours before , made her nervous .
the fear came from thinking that she had no place to land .
as soon as she started having that thought , landing was exactly what her body felt compelled to do .
despite her trepidations , prissi was not so hinky that she was willing to fly another eighty blocks north so she could cross above the george washington bridge .
the winger calmed herself by reciting the statistics which showed that it was much more dangerous to fly in bad weather or at night than to fly over water .
prissi tipped her head up so that she could stare at the palisades far in front of her rather than at the brown and white waters of the hudson churning beneath .
to distract herself , the teener imagined what she might find at her destination .
after her second standoff with her father , the frustrated girl had gone to her room and ogled every scrap of information she had .
one of those scraps was al burgey , the name on the two letters she had found among her mothers things .
an a. burgey lived in verona , new jersey .
beyond a couple of lines in his letters , there was no evidence that he was a scientist , but prissi didnt care .
an al burgey knew her mother .
an a. burgey lived in verona , so that was where prissi was going .
as soon as prissi was clear of the river , she landed , caught her breath , and keyed burgeys address into the mypods flight planner .
according to the itinerary , it would take her just over an hour to get to burgeys house .
prissi closed her eyes and tried to gauge whether she could fly to verona and still have enough energy to get back home .
her best answer was maybe .
she dug into her kanga and found a semi smashed zzolt a bar .
she gobbled it , brushed the sticky crumbs from her face , used her tongue like a spatula to work the greasy not quite strawberry flavored scum from the back of her teeth , and flapped back into the air .
an hour later , as she looked down from one hundred meters , prissi thought verona looked quite a bit like of waterville .
the newly green tops of mature maples and oaks lined both sides of the narrow streets .
the houses , mostly large and mostly old , sat back from the streets .
the only indication that the wealth and serenity of the small town might be less than what it appeared was the four burned out houses prissi saw as she flew over .
house burnings , hbs , had been a common method of grass roots social change during the ticklish situation of 2038 .
usually the hbs were set by poor walkers against rich wingers or by radical fundas against their ecoist counterparts .
in both instances , the fact that the destruction was by fire was considered to have importance .
in the previous five years , as evidence of world cooling grew and more people doubted their science , and the ecoists started to lose power , houses began to burn again .
when she got close , the wingers prissis mypod squeaked and its arrows began their sequential flashing .
prissi slowed her speed as she flew ten meters above the smooth pavement of oakstaff street .
burgeys house was an ancient mongrel with two eyelash gables jutting out over a low walled porch .
the house was painted a sallow yellow with black shutters .
from her perspective , prissi thought the overall effect was of a toothless geri having a snit .
when she walked up the undulating brick walk , the teener was surprised to see , given the hbs close by , a wooden door with a large oval of etched glass .
no steel door , no bars , no slide screen , not even a safety screen .
the lack of caution on the owners part caused prissi to stop dead on the first step of the porch .
she had already dealt with one weird person she wasnt sure that she wanted to make it two on the same day .
she considered , half turned , re considered , then , turned back and hurried up the steps to ring the doorbell before she changed her mind .
a tall cadaverous man with a tomahawk nose , rheumy eyes and tendrils of silver hair floating like seaweed over the large reefs of his ears , bent forward , stopped for a moment , as if nonplussed , then , offered a lipless smile before asking , yes ?
prissi was sure that the man standing before her was older than her father , yet , he had the voice of a young man .
mr. burgey ?
when he gave his head a slight shake , an empty bag of skin beneath his chin wriggled .
burgey .
the accent is on the first syllable , and the g is hard .
im sorry .
please , dont be .
how could you know ?
he paused for a second before continuing sotto voce , how , indeed ?
when prissi told him her name , his smile widened and the wrinkles in his cheeks expanded like an accordion drawing air .
you knew my mother ?
yes , yes i did .
and , you know shes dead ?
yes , im afraid so .
how did you know ?
burgey waved his hands .
after waiting for more and receiving nothing but a cluck , prissi launched into telling the sickly looking geri about her school project studying blind alleys in science .
she ended by asking , did you ever hear of a company called centsurety ?
it was very apparent that that was not the question that he was expecting .
his short narrow eyebrows shifted from accent grave to accent aigu .
would you like to ?
before he finished his question , prissi had answered it with her most confident smile and a tactical retreat .
instead of starting to go inside , she took a step back , flared her wings , dropped them over the railing and leaned her butt against the railings peeling paint .
after burgey had watched the teeners retreat with amused eyes he asked , why are you interested in something from so long ago ?
prissis first thought was to invent for burgey , who was looking incredibly birdlike , with his small bright eyes and sharp nose , details abouta lost uncle .
instead , for reasons she couldnt explain , she decided to trust this slightly frightening man with the truth .
she explained how she first had become interested in centsurety and how her interest had grown and shifted when she found the pix that showed a woman that looked like her mother .
did he know if her mother worked there ?
had her mother been married before ?
was her name ever winslow ?
someone named roan winslow , who looked a lot like her mother , supposedly had died in an explosion .
what did he know about that ?
did he remember much about a man named glen laureby and what he was doing , the kind of science he was doing ?
did he have any pix from that time ?
or , any articles , or records ?
when she began to ask another question , burgey held up a hand , a hand with fingers thin as pencils and as gnarled as twigs , a hand that reminded prissi of the hands of dr. smarkzy and joshua fflowers .
the old man kept the hand up , as if to ward off any more questions , even as he disappeared into the house .
while she waited , prissi became so agitated that her butt started bouncing on the railing .
her excitement waned however , when , rather than returning with a box or worn leather flash screen , as she had imagined , burgey re emerged with a tattered red cloak covering his wings .
he drew one of the faded , gray plastic perches close to prissi , flared his wings and perched .
may i see the picturedo you mind if i date myself by calling it a picture ?
prissi pulled the pix from her kanga .
she pointed , this is the woman who looks like my mother , but dr. baudgew tells me that she cant possibly be my mother because she died in an explosion .
baudgew ?
yes , i just came from seeing him .
he said this woman is dead .
al burgey took the paper from prissis finger and studied it for a long moment before handing it back .
sleeping dogs stir .
of which some may have a vicious bite .
i wish that you might have come to see me before seeing dr. baudgew .
hes not a nice man .
do you know i believe that i may have a picture taken on the same day ?
could i see it ?
as soon as she blurted out her wish , prissis eyes were drawn to the darkness behind the front door .
with everything that had happened over the last day , she figured that her luck gauge must be close to empty .
al burgeys lipless mouth twitched in the smallest of smiles .
wary , are we ?
he tutted as he moved his head back and forth in a way that reminded prissi of a metronome .
not trustworthy , am i ?
i dont know .
im just nervous .
ever since i started looking into this ive been having trouble .
like ive stirred something up that i shouldnt have .
i believe you may have .
did you find anything else interesting among your mothers things besides my letters to her ?
no , just some pix , your letters to her and the notebook .
nothing else ?
no , nothing .
that may be for the best .
except for a piece of jewelry .
hmmm .
can you describe it ?
prissi brightened , im wearing it .
may i see it ?
prissi hesitated for a second before reaching under her vest and lifting the spiral crystal over her head .
the ancient hand darted forward and opened just enough that she could drop it in .
burgey brought the bright object close to his brighter eyes and studied it .
when prissi tentatively stuck her hand out for the crystal , burgeys hand closed tight .
holding the bauble in his crippled fist , he brought his hand to his lips and tapped them before he asked , did you show this to dr. baudgew ?
no .
i didnt even mention my mother .
he was too graggy .
i didnt trust him .
are you sure that he couldnt have seen it around your neck ?
i dont think so .
i dont see how .
burgey closed his eyes and cocked his head in a way that reminded prissi of people at a brahms concert .
when his head finally straightened , burgey pointed a finger at prissi .
have you seen the newz ?
joshua fflowers is dying .
the geris words shot prissi off the railing .
how can that be ?
i just saw him a couple of days ago .
its how all of this got started .
his body is not accepting what his mind conjured .
something many of us have endured .
the ancient man looked at his crippled hands before raising the one closed over the crystal to his ear as if he were trying to hear something .
the effulgent eyes clouded over .
finally , burgeys head nodded as if in affirmation of a decision he had made .
when he eased himself off his perch , it took a second for him to get his balance .
noting prissis concern , he said bitterly , a tetch of als .
wait .
but , my .
wait !
prissi was surprised by how commanding the old mans voice was .
he slowly turned and disappeared into the gloom behind the door .
in the ten minutes that he was gone , prissi input a couple of options into her mypod for getting home .
she could fly straight across the hudson , or she could fly north , shadow the george washington bridge , and fly back south along the west edge of the city .
the first option was much shorter the second much safer .
just about the time prissi thought that the geri wasnt coming back , al burgey pushed his way out the door .
prissi was confounded to see that one of burgeys gnarled hands held a small beaded bag , red and black and seemingly identical to the one prissi had found in her mothers tote .
burgey tipped his palm to offer it to prissi .
she opened the bag and freed its contents .
a crystal fell into her hand .
prissi frowned .
when she looked up , the geri opened his other hand and said , here is yours .
at first glance , the crystals were twins .
take it .
just be careful .
very careful , as , now , unfortunately , must i .
you may be putting a key into a treasure chest , but , more likely , you are sticking your hand in a bees best .
i shouldnt be doing this , but with joshua fflowers dying , this might be the right time .
but what is it ?
whats going on ?
what kind of bees nest ?
what the old man slowly shook his head .
trinity .
he started to say something more , then , stopped .
finally , he just said , stars align .
stars benign .
burgey shook his head again , or , all too often , malign .
even though prissi had no idea what was going on and had a dozen questions she wanted to ask , she slowly dropped her crystal over her neck .
she looked at the one burgey had just given her , rather than chancing having the two of them around her neck bang against one another , she started to put it back into the beaded bag , but the old man reached out , snatched the bag from her , and slipped it into his pocket .
something to hold secrets .
prissi dropped the second crystal into her kanga and tapped her chest , you have even more ?
im an old man .
all old men have secrets .
secrets and memoriestreasures and cursesbut mostly great regrets .
prissi tried again , what secrets ?
what treasures ?
whats going on ?
be very careful .
be very smartbut not too smart .
go !
go , now !
feeling more emotion than she wanted to feel , prissi nodded sharply and said , thank you so much .
well see .
when prissi leaned forward with the thought to shake his hand , burgey jerked back so quickly , he fell against the door .
go .
go .
before i change my mind .
and , even though she had no idea of what had just happened , prissi went .
chapter seventeen strikes twice after the girl had left him , dicky baudgew had thoughtfully scratched his cheeks with the long yellow nails growing from his short pale pink fingers .
baudgew once had been quite rich .
unlike many twenty first century scientists , who had accumulated great wealth because they had invented something useful and , somehow , despite the odds and all the lawyers , had been able to maintain their intellectual property , dicky had made his money by being a manager and manipulator of scientists for joshua fflowers .
early on in his success , joshua fflowers had decided that it made more sense to make one corporate pit bull rich than to allow dozens of scientists to rob him blind .
fflowers had made baudgew rich once , but he saw no need to repeat his largesse .
unfortunately for dicky , a long life and a largish number of vices had greatly reduced his means .
he still had nice things , but , he knew , that unless something changed , he wouldnt be getting any more .
the things he did havefurniture , art , rugsmeant too much to dicky for him even to consider selling them .
instead , as his cash flow slowed to a trickle , he had moved from a ten room central park west apartment with park and river views to six rooms in spicetown with a fifth floor view of petty poverty and crime .
since dicky was a realist , he had accommodated himself to his changed circumstances but , since he could not prevent the occasional dream , he had not accepted them .
before dicky met them , joshua flowers and elena howe had been employed as post doctoral researchers by reiklein and grammai , a team of cold spring harbor primaries .
at the time , much scientific research resembled investment banking .
the people with lots of good ideas rarely had the money to carry them out .
the people with lots of money rarely had good ideas .
the principal researchers had gone to grant larkston , who had agreed to put up fifty million dollars to fund research into the possibilities of curing certain late presenting hereditary diseases by insinuating a genetic splice into the patient during the bio chemical turmoil that was present during puberty .
the reiklein and grammais thesis was that hereditary diseases were a mutation , but of a very minor scale compared to the mutation that took place in pubescent teenagers as they were transformed from children to adults .
their strategy was to piggyback their defect altering genetic changes onto the natural changes occurring during puberty .
within a year the team had made enough progress to be sure they were on the right path .
larkston was pleased at their rapid progress .
it was in the second year that an outcome of one of elena howes experiments and an insight by fflowers as to the commercial importance of that finding led those two to leave cold spring harbor .
in the following year , reiklein and grammai announced their breakthrough thousands of lives could be improved by the techniques they had developed .
the two researchers , cold spring harbor , and larkston shared ownership of the patented processes .
the researchers would make millions , cold spring harbor would make tens of millions and larkston would make hundreds of millions .
everyone was very happy .
until less than four years later , when fflowers stunned the world by having fourteen year old brianna brim fly above cheney stadium and land on the fifty yard line during halftime of the superbowl li .
the millennial dream , humans flying freely , was realizedcould be realizedfor a price not much more than the cost of a years college tuitionwell , the cost at a very good college .
then , everyone was unhappy .
larkston and csh sued .
they argued that the meta mutant techniques and procedures leading to flight should be theirs because joshua flowers and elena howe had derived the fledging process from the original research .
it took three years , but fflowers prevailed .
reiklein and grammai got a footnote in some textbooks about meta mutancy , a number of legal citations and a bitterness that lasted the rest of their lives .
larkston got a laboratory at csh named after him .
fflowers got fame , fortune and dicky baudgew to make sure that no scientist ever did to joshua fflowers what he and elena had done to reiklein and grammai .
by the time fflowers was thirty nine , he was the richest man in the world .
and one of the most benevolent .
despite being born poor , fflowers did not hoard his wealth .
he gave huge amounts to bissell , much more than the already richly endowed school had ever received before from an alumni .
he gave money to yale and mit , his alma maters , and even to cold spring harbor .
his fortune funded billions of eurollars of ce research .
for the recipients of those grants , the only requirement was to take big chances .
those individuals and the organizations they worked for , usually universities were given all rights to whatever came from their efforts however the story was very different at cygnetics and its many subsidiaries .
dicky baudgews job was to make sure that whatever the scientists at fflowers companies developed , that the financial benefits of those efforts stayed with fflowers .
dicky had found that his snaky charm and well honed manipulative skills were usually enough to keep productive scientists working for cygnetics .
when those skills werent enough , dicky had added a certain subtle menace , which , because it was so subtle , got and kept peoples attention .
at the time , baudgew took great satisfaction in the power he wielded as director of research .
he was good at finding the scientists , usually young , with the most promise and matching them up so that a synergy was created .
dicky baudgew loved a puzzle and keeping successes coming out of fflowers lab had , for a long time , been the best puzzle of his life .
dicky loved everything about his job except for standing in joshua fflowers shadow .
fflowers wealth rankled , but what rankled more was the fact , and dicky knew without a doubt that it was a fact , that he , dicky baudgew , was far smarter than joshua fflowers .
dicky coped by swallowing his anger when he was around fflowers and spewing it about when he was not .
as a result , dickys power and wealth grew , although not as fast as his dissatisfaction .
then , when things turned bad in the aftermath of the etruscan project and the destruction of centsurety , fflowers swept dicky baudgew aside with all the care of a hash house waitress cleaning a table .
over the ensuing decades , dicky spent his money , but hoarded his anger .
his once broad ranging mind shrunk into the narrow focus of the obsessed until he was left with little more than wishes .
impossible wishes .
finally , despair had freed dicky of those wishes .
he had feasted on ash .
bitter ash .
until , whatever force ran the universe , a force that seemed to revel in irony , sent , with no warning , a girl to knock on his door .
suddenly , poor dicky baudgew thought that he might have a second chance to make a wish come true .
the problem for dicky was to understand just what opportunity fate had thrown his way and how best to use it .
there could be no doubt that the girl who had just graced his humble abode was flesh of elena howes flesh .
she was too much a twin of elena to be a granddaughter and too young to be a daughter .
the girl was definitely a puzzle .
oh , how dicky baudgew loved a puzzle .
hed made his mark solving them .
when he was very young , he had spent lots of summer days twisting rubik cubes and their cousins , setting up chess problems and playing puter games .
as a teenager , anagrams and quadratic and chemical equations kept him busy .
in college and medical school , he had been entranced with the limitless cryptic messages dna liked to write using its limited agtc alphabet .
after medical school dicky interned as an endocrinologist however he soon found the puzzle of getting people and their conflicting egos to work successfully within an organization to be much more intriguing than why their organs failed .
dicky had started work at cygnetics as a project manager for one aspect of feather patterning however within a year , the high productivity and low turnover in his group had drawn the attention of joshua fflowers .
dicky had bounced his way up the organization fast enough to make lots of enemiessome angry , but most , and wisely so , fearful .
when fflowers manic hubris led him to start centsurety , he picked dicky baudgew to be his main puzzle solver .
dicky was an inspired choice because dicky so loved a puzzle and centsurety certainly was that .
he had to find enough sincere and dedicated and , most importantly , closed mouthed scientists to do the front of the house work on delayed fledging , while putting together two teams of brilliant renegades to do the back of the house work that joshua fflowers really wanted done .
the loyal dicky had done everything from lab designcutting edge facilities with a physical layout that encouraged cross talk and synergy at least at the front of the house to talent scouting to walking the well lighted halls of b crats getting the necessary permits to allow fflowers to play god using dickys hires as his angels .
everything had gone swimmingly .
the spotlighted front of the lab made minor progress on the exquisitely complicated process of delayed fledging .
in the shadowy back of the lab , the fallen angel , elena howe and the ugly elf , vartan smarkzy , and their pup filled wolf pack made astounding progress in solving the greek problem .
in the shadows beyond the shadows , the twin wizards , glen laureby and roan winslow , struggled and slipped and struggled and gained to solve the age old old age question .
flitting between all three groups was joshua fflowers , the mad hatted midas , with his chefs toque , sticking his fingers in every pasty , pudding and pie .
thus poked zarathustra .
then , in a way that ridiculously mimicked the dramatic traverse of a greek tragedy , everything came together for one shining moment before plunging into disaster .
fflowers , fallen from olympus , escaped some of fates revenge .
but , to pay for that undeserved mercy , a sacrifice to the governmental gods must to be made .
just like in a myth much younger than the greeks , the lupine dicky baudgew donned the sheepskin and went to his doom .
dickys doom included taking a large chunk of flowers fortune and going to macao for a year , then spending two more in beijing , four in kuala lumpur , before completing his penance , if not his rehabilitation , in montreal .
he returned to a quiet and ineffectual life in manhattan .
by the time dicky was back home , quite a bit of his fortune had been transmuted into thingssilk and ivory , jade , rice paper , nacre , alabaster , gold and porcelain thingsand other pleasures and arts of a more transitory nature .
all of the things which dicky baudgew had brought back him from his exile still surrounded him as he sat scratching his face .
dusty now , and rarely noticed , the things gave their owner much less comfort than they once had .
a deteriorating body and unrequited revenge had shouldered them aside like a hungry piglet its littermates on the way to milk and mother .
dicky looked around his apartment and then out a black streaked window .
new harlem , once the choicest address in manhattan , had become spicetown , a hell hole of poverty and a stewpot of people .
dicky sat , scratched and pondered how he was rich with objects , but so very poor with satisfactionexcept , now , for his little puzzle .
dicky baudgew surely loved a puzzle .
the tiny geri let his head drop back against the oily spot it had made over the decades on his favorite deerskin suede chair .
his hands dropped down to his neck .
he picked at the sparsely bristled thin folds of skin and hummed a long forgotten song .
fflowers , like lear , the faltering king .
elenathe abdicated queen .
the girla pawn .
a few more pawns , a less than shining knight or two andand , an interesting puzzle was born .
the ancient scratched and thought of what to do and whom to use as the morning sun wheedled its way through the once very good , but now very faded , braunswig fils curtains .
the sun was in the west and baudgew had a tremor in his hands , which he couldnt decide came from hunger or excitement , before he decided that the very first step was to determine just what the girl was .
why did she look like elena fflowers , but think that roan winslow might be her great aunt ?
that thought knocked dicky out of his chair .
he had so enjoyed being clever with the girl that he had not thought to get her mothers name .
how could he not have asked ?
that was minor , but stupid .
dicky took a pinch of skin on his arm .
stupid people didnt solve puzzles and people who didnt solve puzzles needed to be punished .
dicky squeezed until tears ran from his eyes .
after he got his breath back , dicky pushed himself up from the stained chair to ogle a name and make a call .
as he waited for the man and his science to arrive , dicky thought hard about the girl who had passed his portal .
was she a clever , or , a lucky girl ?
was she a clone of elena fflowers , a suppressed x embryo , or an exceedingly rare accident of genetic fate ?
what would the best answer be ?
surely , at first glance , a clone , essence of elena , would be the most valuable .
the rumors were that joshua fflowers was fading fast .
how dicky would like to dangle that bauble before his enemys failing eyes .
what could be more painful to a man facing his mortality than to be briefly teased with the physical form he once had loved , or more accurately , idolized since dicky wasnt sure joshua fflowers had ever loved anything in all the world during his long life .
dicky thought and scratched .
but the taste of revenge , despite how sweet , could not linger .
he already had taken the first step .
the next in the puzzle was to compare the dna of elena and the girl .
the girls dna was easy .
the man , when he arrived , would sample the lip and handle of the cup shel had used .
finding elenas dna would be more difficult .
it might still be on record at cygnetics , although that was not very likely .
however , if it were there , getting something out of that bee hive shouldnt be too difficult .
alternatively , the juvenal institute , which had done her transplant , would definitely have it however there would not be many fissures in the firewalls of that august edifice .
unfortunately , dicky baudgews thinking had to take a turn .
less than five hours after the guileless girl had announced herself at his door , dicky heard from the tech doing the work on the tea cup that there was no dna to be found .
the cup had been wiped clean .
dicky didnt know if she was lucky , but the girl appeared to be clever .
dicky abhorred clever girlsof any age .
dicky had always told himself that when one door closed , another must open .
he would get what he needed .
the tracker he had planted in her feathers as she left his apartment would insure that .
it would just take a little longer .
dicky made another call .
afterwards , the little man paid his dues .
for being stupid a second time , dickys sense of justice demanded he pinch the skin on the back of his knee with the tweezers he usually used on his eyebrows .
after cleaning up the blood from that bit of retributive drudgery , dicky made himself a cup of adreno tea , sat , pondered , and scratched and scratched and pondered and scratched and pondered until his cheeks leaked lymph like a tapped maple tree .
chapter eighteen fly by night fate standing out on oakstaff street , prissi decided that she should be cautious and fly the northern route home .
but before she had flown a dozen kliks , her shoulder was hurting so badly that she knew she couldnt make it straight home .
after circling twice , she landed on the ubiquitous green roof of a vegantopia .
dozens of seggies were parked by the front door .
after getting her bearings and a ps report , which came up bland , prissi flared her wings and dropped to the ground .
inside , the winger found the usual lay out .
a long row of herbaria and aquaria separated the counter from the dining room .
the counter had chairs near the door and perches at the far end .
most of the counter seats were occupied by bored looking pre fleds sucking down banana soys and sporking up glute not desserts .
as she walked past them , prissi gave those staring at her the youre invisible look she usually reserved for waterville townies .
a red haired walker , whose eyes were considerably smaller than several of the excrescences galaxied across his forehead , listed the days soups in a low drone that reminded prissi more of a horsefly caught between window pane and screen than human speech .
prissi guessed at a couple of syllables and ordered a pomelo and squash potage with a hi fi muffin and a quadralatte .
prissi rubbed the outline of the crystal around her neck and pondered what had happened at burgeys house .
it was obvious that the crystals were more than just pieces of jewelry .
but what could they be ?
while she waited for her food , prissi put both pieces on the counter and studied them .
they seemed to be no more than spiraled pieces of fractured glass .
they reminded prissi of the crazed glaze of some raku pottery .
were the crystals , despite their large size , some how precious ?
diamonds ?
africa still was the home of diamonds .
had her mother found something like the hope diamond ?
prissi snorted .
was she holding some kind of new world altering material ?
hearing a clink , prissi looked down the counter .
before the boy got within three meters of her , prissi knew that he was going to slop soup onto the counter .
dropping both crystals in her kanga , she leaned back on her perch in anticipation , then , smiled smugly when a chunk of squash and some viscous orange fluid made its escape .
the boy muttered something and prissi guessed , thats okay , was an appropriate response .
the soup was decent , but the muffin was so thick and dry with spelt and bits of healthy chaff , and so oddly tasting from the extra baking soda needed to lift it enough to call it a muffin , that it took prissi some real work and a lot of latte to get it down her throat .
by the time she was half way through her litert of coffee , prissi knew that she could fly to montana on one wing .
riding her feeling of invincibility , she pulled her special pen from her kanga , grabbed a clean lapkin and wrote , bigger tip wash your face with zit o zilch and e nun ci ate .
she weighted the message down with a twenty eurollar coin left from her change , flared her wings for the pre fleds and sashayed toward the door .
back in the air , the rejuvenated teener felt so much better , she considered flying directly home .
but , a smarter part of her knew that her bravura was more caffeine than strength and that to be safe , she needed to take the long way home .
she started north toward the gw bridge , but soon could feel herself getting so hypo glyked from all the caffeine running through her that , after a couple of kliks , she landed on the roof of a school and called nasty nancy .
hi , its me .
sounds just like you .
im in nj totally discharged .
any chance i could flop and flap with you ?
sure .
do you need to ask your folks ?
you forget i am an only child .
just for a couple of hours .
nancy sloans parents lived in a ten room penthouse apartment on the western edge of fort lee .
the glass walled cavernous living room ran the width of north side of the building .
at the east end of the room , one could see the gw bridge dimly glowing in the waning daylight .
to the north the writhing brown snake of the hudson chewed away at its banks while far to the west the double urban auras of newton and screwton pulsed .
prissi looked out at the nearly empty skies and remembered a previous visit to the sloans when she had watched flock after flock of wingers sweeping past to their homes in the outer suburbs .
as she took in the view , iaocomo and emerald sloan , who owned a generic pharmaceutical company that specialized in std remedies for fourth and fifth world countries , came out to say hello , then went back to their office , which prissi remembered as being almost big as her fathers apartment .
after the adults left , prissi started to tell her nancy where she had been and what she had learned since leaving home that morning , but nancy said that she really wasnt that interested .
deciphering what had happened to a little company a half century before wasnt what she wanted to do right then .
instead , she suggested that she teach prissi how to crochet .
prissi , who wasnt sure what crocheting was but was very sure that it wasnt pronounced the way nancy was saying it , figured that she owed her roomie enough for her nypd help that she shouldnt argue .
a frustrated prissi stayed for almost three hours sitting in the sloans immense media room on a high armless couch that allowed her to drop her wings behind its back .
after they ate slivers of pepperoni peetsa , nancy showed prissi how to twist and turn the yarn so that a piece of string became a piece of cloth .
despite her initial dismissive attitude , prissi found herself more interested in the yarn being knotted than the yarn being spun in an old 3 d vid starring shiloh voight playing in the background .
it was almost ten before prissi got up to leave .
outside on the launch pad , the sky was so clear that she could see a billion stars .
once she was in the air , with lights both above and below her , she felt like she was flying inside a magic tunnel .
as she approached the gw , she dropped low until she was flying just above the aquaphosphor lights of the ancient bridge .
being drawn to the lights beauty made prissi think of the ancient greek sailors drawn dangerously close by the singing of the sirens .
prissis snort carried for blocks .
not this one .
admittedly , she was part bird and part woman , but her singing would have sent any sailors tacking off in the opposite direction .
as fast as they could haul sail .
prissi swept off the bridge and turned south .
the air above the west side levee was much darker than over the gw .
she slowed her pace to give her eyes time to adjust .
looking ahead prissi saw that the air was almost completely empty of wingers .
the buildings hugging the levee began to seem ominous .
the further south she went , the emptier the city seemed .
she sensed things at the edge of her peripheral vision , but when she snapped her head around , nothing was there .
to feel safer , prissi climbed a couple of dozen meters higher , but despite the additional height , her nerves stayed jittery .
a klik later she dropped down until she was flying at less than ten meters feet off the ground .
again , she felt like something was shadowing her .
she twisted her head around again , saw nothing , turned back and screamed when she saw how close she was to a blank brick wall that hovered alongside the levee .
josie geezsaphat .
just fly .
prissi looked far down the levee and saw two flight lights coming her way .
seeing those beams reassured her that she wasnt the only person flying over manhattan that night .
the lights drew closer and , being northbound , began to climb to give prissi room to safely pass beneath .
as the two passed overhead , prissi saw a flash of orange .
she yelled , high , and the others yelled back , sky .
prissi was still smiling at that brief contact when a darkness grabbed her from above and drove her down toward the levee .
she managed to get her feet under her just as she hit .
she stumbled forward , had her balance for a second , was hit a second time , and felt the levees concrete surface tear at the skin on the heels of her hands as she skidded forward .
when she was knocked down a third time , her head smashed into the unforgiving surface .
her body ground to a stopexcept for her consciousness , which flew away .
two shadowy forms , like giant birds of prey , dragged her deep into the shadows at the levees edge , then flapped their orange wings in fierce excitement at they picked and tore at her .
chapter nineteen a friend in deed while his body moved at the glacial pace demanded by his disease , al burgeys mind whirled .
he had a hard time fathoming what he had just done .
or , why .
especially , why .
after holding in his hand a piece of the puzzle he had spent years trying to obtain , he had handed it back along with his future .
was he trying to reclaim his soul at the price of his body ?
knowing the long reach dicky baudgew had from his over decorated web , burgey doubted that he or the girl had much time before they would be dealing with that deadly little spiders attention .
the girl had thrummed a thread and there would be hell to pay .
the crippled geri shuffled around the house collecting clothes , papers and pills .
his heart beat rose .
his fingers became so frantic as they tried to cull what he might need that they dropped as much as they gathered .
as parts of his body extended their betrayal , he asked himself unanswerable questions .
why would he not fight back with every weapon against such a horrible death ?
but , could he live two hundred more years of a life mired in guilt ?
even if it was the right thing to do to give the girl back her crystal , why had he given up his own ?
he had sold his soul for more life , but , suddenly , when longer life was put into his hand , he had refused .
was he insane ?
senile ?
or a late blooming saint ?
as burgey haphazardly filled the large suitcase on top of his bed , his mind reviewed his sins .
it had started with a fall .
a misreading of gravitys rules .
a thirteen stitch gash to his forearm .
a somewhat larger wound to his head .
a much much larger wound to his sense of self .
his first thought was that he was becoming fragile .
frail .
but the tests said otherwise .
he was in the beginning stages of als .
with the latest treatments , it would take time , but over the course of five or ten years , every muscle in his body would die .
he wouldnt die .
just his body .
his mind would continue to work as well as if ever had .
as burgey contemplated the horror of his future , he began to think about the crystal that had lain hidden in its little preserve for so long .
his prodigious mind considered how his disease might be cured or curtailed if his piece of the longevity puzzle could be reunited with the other two .
he came to the conclusion , a result based as much in fear driven hope as science , that if all three parts of trinity could be brought back together , both his mind and his body might be able to continue on its interesting way for a very long time .
as had been true sixty years before when trinitynora winslow , elena howe and he , glen laurebyfirst discovered how they could triple the lifespan of an individual , deciding the best way to gather up that ancient , dangerous and purposefully scattered knowledge took time .
he knew that if he went to elena howe and asked for her piece of the puzzle , having only his own in hand , she wouldnt give it to him .
but , if he were to come to her in possession of two crystals , then she might be willing to add the third , especially if she herself were feeling as unacceptably mortal as he was .
consequently , he decided that he needed to get roans piece first .
he did not delude himself that achieving that goal would be easy .
first , he didnt know where she was .
since roan had never quite trusted him when he was glen laureby , he doubted that she would be immediately won over by his reincarnation as al burgey .
as the sick geri struggled to pile papers into the suitcase , he thought how correct roan was to have doubted him .
before they were lovers , he had tried to steal some of her research .
while they were lovers , he had had an affair with elena howe .
and sixty years after they had last seen one another , he had been responsible for her death .
whether as glen laureby , or his reincarnation as al burgey , the man who was throwing handfuls of socks and underwear into his suitcase had always been smart .
indeed , laureby burgey was so smart that he occasionally didnt know what limitations there were on his intelligence .
that is what had happened in africa three years ago as well as in cold spring harbor more than a half century before .
after the fiasco fflowers had caused by using trinitys longevity research before it had been perfected , glen laureby had known that he had to get free of the megalomaniac .
his plan was to leave and take roan winslow with him , but before laureby could decide where to go , roan had happened onto a new approach to solve the problems with the old longevity formulation .
with that discovery , a complicated weaving of prions with a persons dna , laurebys plans changed .
rather than just leaving , he had the idea of taking the discovery with them .
tripling a life span would lead to even greater riches than giving the world wings however roan convinced laureby that taking what fflowers would consider his own would greatly shorten their own life spans .
laureby felt stalemated until fflowers gave elena wings .
laureby saw that prideful act as an opening .
he nurtured elenas anger and comforted her beyond just words .
when roan discovered that her gallant was not so gallant , things came to a head .
the disaffected members of trinity , while not trusting each other , found that their hatred and fear of joshua fflowers bound them together .
it was laureby who came up with the idea of faking the deaths of roan and himself .
it was elena who had the idea that if she took the etruscan embryos fflowers might be so afraid of the political consequences that he would let her go .
it was roan who decided that the best way to protect herself from fflowers wrath , if he happened to see through their ruse , as well as keep trinity bound to itself , was to split up the longevity solution among the three of them .
to reassemble the prion extended dna of the longevity solution it would be necessary to reconnect the information etched within the three crystals .
the plan had worked .
winslow and laureby had died in an explosion and gone off to start new lives .
elena had taken the embryos and left a letter explaining what would happen if fflowers came after her .
for sixty years , a balance had been maintained .
until al burgey fell and cut his arm .
it had taken burgey more than a year and much more money than he could have imagined to find roan .
over the years he had received the occasional communication from her .
usually , she would write as a fellow scientist .
what did he think about this or that line of inquiry ?
it was not until his hirelings had managed to backtrack from a post office box in bratislava through teheran , haifa , monaco , and a half dozen other dead ends and cut outs , that laureby realized how great roans distrust of him was .
the trail had gone dead until he chanced upon a small news item that led him to believe that east africa might be a good place to focus the search .
it took more money and time to follow up the rumors about some unusual guinea hens .
it had taken even more time and more money to find that roan winslow had become nora elieson .
burgey developed a plan based on pity .
he would go to africa and convince roan to give up her part of the puzzle .
after all , he had been her colleague , friend , lover and fellow conspirator .
she might not trust him , but she certainly wouldnt allow him to die in the way that was ordained .
she would listen .
she would understand .
when al burgey arrived in bujumbura , he found that nora elieson wasnt there .
he had hired a roto , tracked her to the village where she had been staying only to find that she had left that morning .
when he finally caught up with his old colleague , laureby found she was not as understanding as he had assumed .
she wanted no part of his plan .
when she wouldnt agree to give him what he had come for , burgey threatened to harm her or her family .
that had been a mistake he would long regret .
elieson had tried to get away .
in her attempt , by accident or choice , she had careened off the road to her death .
guilt and remorse over his former lovers death effectively ended burgeys quest .
he returned to noramica and the slow , maddening drama of his disease .
after awhile allen burgey came to believe that he had accepted his fate .
in a strange way , he saw the progress of the als as penance for his former lovers death .
however , at that moment when he took from the girl roan winslows portion of the dna sequence , burgeys fist had closed tight and did not want to reopen .
even now , as he threw shirts into the suitcase , he was monumentally ambivalent .
one moment he would feel an unconquerable urge to track down prissi langue and snatch back what should be his .
a second later would come a surge of serenity welling from the idea that he might obtain forgiveness from helping her .
in the end , as the complicated glen laureby allan burgey waited for the wingcab to take him to his hidey hole , he did both .
he left prissi langue clues that would take her someplace where she might be safe , but that also would provide him an opportunity to take back what he craved .
chapter twenty adding insight to injury throb , throb , spike .
the pain in her wing joint cadged and cajoled .
throb , spike , throb .
the pain played a childs tune inside her skin .
throb , throb , spike .
even though the simple song was insistent , it still took prissi several moments before she was willing to come back from the warm , quiet place where she had hidden .
throb , throb , spike .
finally , some part of prissis beleaguered brain realized that the spiky note came when she took a breath .
prissi pushed open her eyes to seenothing .
she closed her lids , then , opened them again .
nothing .
fighting panic , prissi turned her aching head and was relieved to see the pale glow of moonlight on the cracked concrete of the levees aged surface .
when she turned , the pains tune changed .
no , that was wrong .
the tune remained the same .
it was the tempo that changed .
prissi ignored the toddlers music as she carefully drew her knees beneath her so she could back up enough to bring her wing down from where it had been wedged against the wall of the levee .
the pain of that effort shot what was left of her vegantopian lunch and her peetsa dinner with nancy out her mouth and through her nose .
to prissi , her whimper sounded like a kittens cry .
she stayed on her knees as she carefully backed away from the splatter she had just made .
she drew out her breath until the needling pain subsided sliding her eyes sideways , prissi was surprised to see her mypod still on her wrist .
her understanding was that muggers always took them , not only because they were valuable , but , more importantly , because it kept their victims from immediately calling for help .
she stopped to considerif it wasnt a mugging , then .
prissi reached inside her pak and was amazed to find the two crystals still there .
what was going on ?
with as much care as if she were on a swaying tightrope , prissi keyed her mypod .
dad , can you come ?
im hurt .
on the west side levee , maybe around 80th .
i cant see where i am .
i got mugged .
just come .
in less than two minutes , two hawks , with their aug pacs hissing and green gold halo lights searching through the shadows , swooped up the levee .
two minutes after the hawks landed , a roto rescue landed thirty meters away .
moments after that , feeling overwhelmed by their attention , prissi began to wonder if the police teams barrage of questions were meant to distract her from what the medical team was doing to her .
just as prissi was being gurneyed to the small roto , beryl langue , blood red face almost black in the phosphor light , so short of breath his sentences had the gaps of a bad phone connection , interrupted his only childs rescue to try to find out what had happened .
even after he had identified himself to the hawks , they insisted that he curtail his questions and concerns until after they got his daughter to the hospital .
reluctantly , beryl langue allowed himself to be cordoned off from prissi .
ss prissi was strapped inside the rotos bubble , she felt a primal magic flowing from the iv into her arm as the pain in her body flowed out .
the roto coughed , hummed , then rose in the air and bee lined its way to columbia unitarian hospital .
once the dust and gravel of the departed rotos wash had settled , the two hawks followed .
it took another five minutes for the octogenarian langue to feel recovered enough from his desperate flight uptown to be confident that he could safely make it to the hospital .
prissi missed her admission and first hour at the hospital .
it wasnt until a flash of self awareness caused her to pause in the middle of a sentence , that she even realized that she had resumed consciousness , and , obviously , the power of speech .
two hawks , one on either side of her head , each just a half step in from the edge of her peripheral vision , hovered expectantly while prissi tried to figure out what she was saying and , more importantly , what she already had said .
had she kept it to just the mugging or , had she been blurting things out about centsurety , richard baudgew and jack ?
as prissi started to talk againto relieve the room of the growing pressure from her silencea shadow moved forward and morphed into her father .
prissi , was it a robbery ?
or did theyassault you ?
thinking as fast as the medicine clogging her synapses would allow , and making use of the things that had happened over the last several days , prissi said , i think it was just teenerz .
when they flew over me , they were kind of wobbly , maybe just fledges , you know , just being flerks .
from the left side hawk , how many ?
three .
from the right side , if they flew past you and werent very good flyers , how did they catch you ?
your father tells me that youre a very good winger , much better than your license would suggest .
another one , in front , came right at me .
i slowed down to see which way he was going .
left side , right side .
is this a third or fourth one ?
with the hawks alternating their questions , it gave prissi a couple of extra seconds , as she turned her wide eyed innocent face from one to the other , to formulate her answers .
just three .
the two who flew over and the one in front .
not four ?
noi dont think so .
and you didnt recognize any of them ?
no .
three people , young boys , strangers , attack you , but dont molest you , nor , if my eighteen years experience means anything , do a great job of robbing you .
if you had money , its gone , but your mypod is still on your wrist .
it strikes me as .
before he could finish his conclusions , prissi interrupted , but if they were fledges , maybe after they knocked me out , they got scaredat what they had done and just took off .
happy with the way that sounded , even though a part of her thought it might be dialogue she had heard in a vid , prissi said encouragingly , that has to be it , right ?
the hawk on the left shook his head as he concurred , right .
has to be .
miss langue , we dont have much to go on .
well check the air cams to see if we can get more of a handle on this .
and , of course , it neednt be said that if you happen to remember more , or remember differently , that youll be in touch .
i would caution you to be extra careful .
my experience is that its the improbable that is most likely to repeat itself .
with the irritated voice of a logician once again being forced to counter the illogical , beryl langue asked , why would you say that ?
it doesnt make sense .
because what happens only seems improbable because we dont have all of the information , sir .
are you insinuating that my daughter isnt being truthful ?
the left side detective stuck out his hand to beryl langue , good night , sir .
even fledglings can get away if they have enough of a head start .
reluctantly , beryl langue shook the hawks hand .
although prissi was pleased with how well things had gone with the hawks , she was less sure about whether to continue along the same path with her father when he asked in an angry voice , what were you doing ?
why were you in new jersey ?
why didnt you let me know where you were ?
daddy , i thought you might be busy , like last night , so i didnt want to bother you .
my friend , nancy , remember nancy , we got together to work on something for school , but and i was going to stay overand i was just about to call you when nancy wasrude to hermother and her dad had been drinking , her dad had been drinking , and he got angry so i couldnt stay over .
so i figured i could be home in an hour so i just leftin such a hurryi was kind of upsetbecause of the drinking , so i forgot to call .
prissi forced herself to take a deep breath as she surged across the finish line .
her father wavered between angry and relieved , then , opted for relief .
how do you feel ?
the face prissi made for beryl langue was a mosaic of her words .
stupid , sore , very happy youre here , angry at those boys , andsafe .
she reached for her fathers hand , and hoping to end her performance , said , really , really safe .
and , really , really sleepy .
prissis father snapped his fingers to turn off the bedside light .
as he held her hand , prissi matched her breathing to that of her father .
beryl langue quickly drifted back into the sleep he had been startled from two hours before .
his daughter , fighting the chemicals wandering around her body , stayed awake replaying every minute of her day .
who had attacked her ?
how did they know where she was ?
when had they begun tracking her ?
and , most confusing , what was it that they wanted ?
why hadnt they wanted the crystals ?
as she prepared to surrender to the sleep her body was demanding , prissi decided that al burgey was right .
it had been a huge mistake to pay richard baudgew a visit .
worse , she had the strongest feeling that many of the effects of that misjudgment were still ahead of her .
prissis last thoughts before falling back into her iv deepened sleep were of the undeniable wisdom of wiping her nose clean , putting her head down , returning to dutton as a bright , energetic , not so inquisitive , fifteen year old girl .
chapter twenty one day of reckonings when prissi woke six hours later , she knew where she was and what had happened to her .
she turned her head expecting to see her father slumped in the chair beside her bed , but the chair was empty except for his thermajerkin .
when she looked at her mypod , which she found on the bedside table rather than her wrist , it was just past seven a.m. she guessed her dad might be getting breakfast .
as soon as she had that thought , she herself became ravenously hungry .
she wondered if the ward she was on was one of those at columbia famous for its concierge services .
she let her mind driftcorn muffins baked long enough that the tops were crusty and nearly brown , sweet butter , one of the multispensers that held six kinds of honey , a bowl of black raspberries with a swirl of whipped cream , and a choco latte with more whipped creamand something good to read .
she was toying with a pagrath ghaib , dickens , michael flynn , bryce pynchon , when a rough rogue wave rising a dozens of meters higher than the surrounding dreamy seas slammed into her .
centsurety .
it was the only thing she wanted to read about or know about .
she wanted to understand every jot and sliver about centsurety .
the people who had worked there .
the work they had done .
and why poking around in events from long ago was important enough to someone to ride her into the ground .
then , like turning suddenly and feeling a deep bruise , prissi remembered her last thought before falling asleep .
she tried to visualize opening her hand and letting centsurety go , but that vision wouldnt come .
in fact , when prissi thought to look down , both of her hands were clenched tight into fists .
what was the secret ?
prissi slid sideways on the bed and stretched her tubes and wires far enough that she could reach her mypod .
she typed in a directory search , got allen burgeys number and pulsed the call button .
the line chirped and chirped before pitching higher as the call was forwarded .
more chirps , but no answer .
no answering machine .
at a house whose owner could barely walk .
although prissi could not believe what was happening to her , she was instantly sure that she wasnt the only one who had been attacked the night before .
but , how could that be ?
what was it that she had started ?
dr. baudgew has called her pandora .
could it be true ?
to take her mind off questions she couldnt answer , prissi picked up the housefone .
by the time beryl langue returned to the room , prissi was picking at a half eaten lox and cream cheese omelet .
a half hour later , her ivs had been disconnected and she was dressed in her freshly laundered clothes .
when she tried to talk to her father , he ignored her except to tell her to hurry it up .
to conform to hospital policy on discharges , prissi was forced to segue along the hospitals corridors in an ancient two wheeler , whose severely nicked and scratched frame suggested she might be safer walking from her room to the hospital exit .
they got into the first of the wingcabs lined up outside the hospital and belted themselves onto their perches .
as soon as the driver , a darfurian ex pat prissi concluded from the looks of his clothes , put the cab up on its air cushion , she knew she would have a headache before they were halfway downtown .
the engine for the front jet was sputtering .
the hack threw the van into gear and they lurched forward .
he drove with the front end canted up so that every time the fore jet sputtered , it had more room to drop down before its emer wheels smacked onto the road .
bounding up and down in a way that reminded the teener of a camel ride she had taken on an egyptian vacation when she was eight , prissi gave a small smile of satisfaction when the headache she had predicted arrived before they crossed 59th street .
the caroming cab ride and the close presence of its captain kept prissi and her father from saying more than the occasional banalitymade just frequently enough to stave off embarrassmenton their way home .
however , as soon as they crossed the threshold into the apartment , beryl langue was instantly transformed .
a finger pointing to the couch , face dark with angers rich blood , voice rising , he asked , what is going on ?
what have you done ?
prissi , unbalanced by a version of her father she had never witnessed before , and could scarcely imagine , moved to the couch with the boneless slink of a remorseful dog .
i dont know .
i really dont .
pandoras flung open the lid , and she doesnt even know what shes done ?
sit , he commanded when she hesitated before the couch .
sit !
and ill tell you what youve done .
youve opened a door thats been sealed for sixty years .
youve angered , no , incited , a powerful and vindictive man .
youve endangered yourself , and , probably , others .
without a thought , with appallingly feckless ignorance , and the most naive foolhardiness .
you have amused yourself with a game that could prove deadly .
with her throat so dry that the rough edges of her words caught , prissi coughed , deadly ?
what do you think would have happened , if your attackers hadnt found whatever it was they were looking for ?
relying on bravura as a strategy , prissi countered , what things ?
her fathers howl made prissi jump .
she had never seen him like this before .
what things ?
i dont know .
but , you had something and your attackers got it because if they hadnt , you would either be dead or being held somewhere being tortured .
even though her fathers words only confirmed what she already had guessed , as tears burst from her eyes for the second time that morning , prissi realized that some part of her , a large part , had been holding out hope .
why would anyone want me dead ?
her fathers stare stung prissi as much as if he had slapped her in the face .
tell me what you have been doing .
i already told you .
it started out as a school project .
i was interested in blind alley science .
but then i found some thingsabout momthat got me off on a tangent .
and i told you to leave it alone .
and i was going to , but .
prissi wavered over what she should say next .
the silence grew before she decided that her fate and , maybe , the fate of her father , demanded that she tell the truth .
when prissi finished telling the story of the lost path , jack fflowers , her mothers notebook , richard baudgew , al burgey , the crystals , the attack and the unanswered phone at burgeys house , her father opened his mouth , then , closed it .
he opened his hands , then , closed them back into the fists that he had been clenching during most of her tale .
he had hovered and hulked over prissi the whole time she had been talking .
now , he stepped back from her , extended an index finger at his daughter and touched his lips .
he left the room , but was back in less than a minute .
when he hurried back through the door , he had a pad of paper in hand .
he motioned to prissi to move over before sitting down beside her .
again , he touched he lips before showing his daughter the pad upon which he had written , we have to go .
get what you need .
when prissi had called burgeys home , she had understood when there was no answer that something bad must have happened .
she had pushed back the possibility that the old man might be dead , but she couldnt deny that something bad had happened , and that that something probably had happened because of her .
now , for the second time that morning , prissi had the feeling that her father was right , she had started something that was endangering herself and others .
but , mortal danger is a very hard thing for a fifteen year old , even a fifteen year old who had grown up in burundi , to comprehend .
prissi knew that her father was right , but , at the same time , she knew he must be wrong .
somehow , the danger wasnt real .
could not be real .
it was just a shadow .
something that would change with a slight shift in the sun .
she had made a mistake and , like all teenerz , prissi thought that all mistakes could be corrected .
lost in her thoughts , prissi jumped when her father touched her shoulder , then , tapped the paper .
prissi nodded and whispered , where ?
her father whispered , go .
now .
prissi tipped her head and mouthed , where ?
beryl langue slapped prissis cheeksomething she never could have imagined .
now !
feeling like she was moving within the syrup of a dream , prissi nodded .
in her room , the frightened girl looked at the little that was there .
unlike her friends , for example , nasty nancy , whose room was filled with clothes , jewelry , childhood drawings , music , old invitations , pix , a thousand shoes , prissi owned little .
most of what she did still have was sitting in her room at dutton .
now , she was being told to choose among the few things left .
for an instant , she had the image of a hot air balloon , unladened , then , untethered , floating away , away and even farther away .
she quickly touched things that once had meant so much to her , in part because they were so few a shell necklace , a panther mask , her rag stick and string dolls so beloved among the rag clothed , stick thin children in burundis villages .
nothing in the room called to her .
rather than make choices , it was easier just to leave it all .
finally , energized by her despair , the shell shocked teener grabbed socks and underwear and the small box with her mothers pearls and rings .
she looked for her mothers notebook , but couldnt find it .
as she pondered how she could have mislaid that , prissi hurried to the bathroom for toothbrush , floss and eye shadow .
she caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror , stopped dead to look at her complicated face , and stayed in place until she thought her face looked more determined than afraid .
once outside the gramercy arms , too burdened down by their belongings to fly , beryl langue grabbed his daughters arm and steered her east on 21st street at a fast pace .
three blocks away , just after prissi asked him if he had moved her mothers notebook , he shoved her under the awning and through the doors of a kaffekiosk .
prissi ordered a sumo sumatran and followed her father to a perch near the back of the room .
before she got to him , beryl langue edged off his perch , strode to the door at the back of the room , opened it , and carefully looked around before sitting back down .
he twisted on his perch so that he could keep an eye on the entrance .
dad , whats going on ?
what was centsurety ?
and why is it so important so many years later ?
is everything that has been happening because of me , because of something i did ?
or , is it because of mom and something she did in the past ?
prissi reached out to touch the pale tips of her father fingers .
despite the physical connection , her fathers stare , looking at something far beyond the confines of the kaffekiosk , didnt change .
dad .
dad !
you have to tell me .
why would someone want to hurt me ?
prissis hand moved from beryl langues fingers to his wrist .
she squeezed hard .
dad ?
her father shook his head .
im not sure what is going on .
do you remember when pandora opened the box , more than just despair escaped ?
i think that may be happening here .
joshua fflowers , or that man you saw in new harlem , baudgew , or some rival of cygnetics , any or all or even others could be involved .
involved in what ?
im positive mom worked for centsurety , but i dont know what she did or was trying to do or how that can be important sixty years later .
beryl langue withdrew his wrist from prissis grasp .
his hand encircled his coffee cup .
he lifted it to his lips , but put it back down without taking a drink .
you have to understand the times , prissi .
back then , science was moving much faster than other aspects of society , especially government .
many scientists felt thwarted .
we used to talk about how the times we were living through werent much different from the 16th century when middle age scientists like copernicus and galileo were constrained by the church .
as our frustration grew over not being able to do science as we wished , some of us became disdainful , arrogant .
people who seemed to stand in our way were our enemies , unenlightened luddites .
when fflowers set up centsurety , i imagine that the people who went to work for him figured that his power and money would be able to keep the pagans at bay .
prissi had been tapping her thumbs against the tables edge waiting for her father to get to the point .
youre saying mom worked for fflowers , right ?
but , why ?
what was she working on ?
my understanding is that the stated goal , the white hat research , was delayed fledging .
and , you have to understand that that was a very real goal .
there was a growing political backlash concerned with children and their parents being forced to make such an important , expensive and irrevocable decision at such a confusing period in a childs life .
df would have solved a lot of problems .
if there was a front door , dad , there must have been a back door .
beryl langue slowly , and , seemingly , reluctantly nodded .
youth is arrogant .
your mother was an extraordinary scientist , and an extraordinary human being , but .
dad .
flowers had wanted to be a classicist , but he grew up poor .
in boarding school he had studied greek and latin , but he knew if he chose the life of a classicist , he would starve .
he became a scientist , a very good scientist , but he never quite let go of his first love .
langue pursed his lips tightly together as if he had finished saying what needed to be said .
his eyes drifted past prissi and out to the world beyond .
prissi took a sip of her coffee .
the drink was bitter , like burned kona , then , somehow oily , with just a soupcon of ashes .
she laughed silently at the irony of that .
youve been looking at some paths of science that seemed promising , but didnt go anywhere .
sixty years ago , your beryl langue stopped as if he were having trouble rememberingyour mother was working on somethinga problem that seemed intractable , impossible but that had fascinated people for eons .
fflowers insisted that the time was right for the problem to be solved .
your mother was intrigued by the problem and also by the chance to work with glen laureby , who was on the fast track for the googleheim prize .
i remember your mother telling me that conducting their research was like ascending the face of an unexplored mountain .
she and laureby began at the base , went up a little way , and began to climb what seemed to be a promising path .
they were doing science , with a small s , like science usually is .
plodding forward , sliding back , taking a breath , adjusting gear , and then plodding forward two steps beyond where they had been .
your mother told me that one day they hit some particularly bad footing and slid all the way back down to where she and laureby had begun .
they were burned out .
she went to their boss , not joshua fflowers , but a horrible little man , the man you met yesterday , baudgew , who went to joshua fflowers to ask him to let them do something else until they got their energy back for the real task .
the request was deniedif it was ever even brought to fflowers .
this baudgew was a very vindictive man .
if your mother and laureby didnt succeed , baudgews career would suffer .
your mother considered quitting .
she thought that she would leave centsurety and go to work at a university .
any university in the world would have wanted her .
she was that good .
but fflowers wife , elena , a brilliant scientist in her own right , found out what was going on and took them under her wing .
she gave them some time to think and putter .
and she worked with them .
the result was absolutely unexpected and entirely serendipitous .
your mother , glen laureby and elena fflowers found a way to do what they had been hired to do .
but rather than that being the end , it was just the beginning .
but what they discovered was so illogical , so counterintuitive , so unlikely a place to find an answer , that they were certain they must have made some monumental error .
it was like finding the disease was the cure .
a frustrated prissi interrupted , like inoculation .
that illogical ?
beryl langue nodded , your mother said that it was like she had slid all the way back down the mountain , given up and was walking away when , all of a sudden , she found a set of steps carved into the stone which climbed all the way to the peak .
as her father talked , prissi fidgetedboth from the jolt of caffeine but more so from the opacity of her fathers words .
when she couldnt stand it anymore , she grabbed his sleeve to interrupt , but , dad , what was it ?
what did mom find ?
and , why is it important now ?
beryl langue stared at prissi , but seemed to see something else as he weighed his words , she found a keynot just herit cant all be blamed on hershe forgot that , i thinkthey they found a key and used it to open a boxpandoras box .
daaad , prissi whined , be specific .
people are trying to kill me , and youre trying to shield me with euphemisms .
how can i be careful in i dont even know what im supposed to be careful about ?
prissi tugged on her fathers arm as she implored him to tell her the truth .
they were working on a kind of meta mutancy .
a change , but a kind of change that would take you back to where you were .
almost like a mobius strip .
what kind of mutancy ?
wings ?
no , not wings , not unless angels really have wings .
do you know .
beryl langue suddenly stopped talking before ripping his arm from prissis grasp .
when she turned to see what the matter was , he was staring through the kaffeekiosks window .
run , priscilla !
run !
now !
out the back .
now !
two blue jay winged men were staring through the window .
now !
prissi pushed off from her perch and bolted toward the rear door .
she heard the front door ripped open .
someone yelled , stop !
then , a crash .
as prissi pushed into the back room , she twisted her head enough to see her father following behind her but taking the time to knock over each perch as he passed it .
she rushed toward a door on the far side of the small room which was crowded with a half dozen machines set up to roast , grind , and make coffee .
prissi smashed the back door open , but stopped in her tracks when she heard a scream that she knew must be her fathersa high pitched noise filled with pain and fear .
she jumped back inside the doorway and darted behind a short dented steel counter holding tall equally dented coffee brewalators .
just as she ducked down , the door flew open and a broad chested winger , with a shock of silver hair leaping up in the middle of his head , rushed through and bolted out the half opened back door .
prissi exploded from behind the counter , jumped to the back door , yanked it closed and locked it .
she whirled around , rushed back and stared through a crack on the hinged side of the dining room door .
her father lay crumpled on the floor with another blue jay winger , this one taller and too bald for a crest , holding him down with a foot on his neck .
prissi froze .
she stared indecisively for a few seconds until someone began pounding at the back door .
boom !
boom !
boom !
the man standing over her father looked up .
boom !
boom !
her fathers assailant , himself indecisive , hovered for a moment before sprinting toward the back room .
prissi let the attacker get almost through the entrance before she slammed the door against his wing as hard as she could .
he shrieked .
prissi ripped the door back .
the mans motion carried him forward .
prissi leapt on him from behind .
he stumbled from the momentum of her weight before falling to the floor .
dazed at her success , prissi stood for a half second in triumph .
boomboomboom ! ! !
the man on the floor started to rise .
balancing her weight on the end of a counter , prissi jumped up as high as she could and landed on the mans outspread wing just below his shoulder .
something bent .
she leapt a second time and felt the bone beneath her feet break like a green limb in the woods .
prissi bounded off the screaming man .
as she came back into the dining room , she noticed two people near the front door , as paralyzed as lots wife , holding cups half raised to their lips .
prissi bent over her father .
dad .
dad !
in a mumbled , weirdly dreamy voice , beryl langue implored , nora !
cmon , dad .
cmon .
get up !
prissi got one hand under her fathers shoulder .
centuries .
boom !
boom !
boom !
crack !
her father groaned .
prissi eased her other hand under beryl langues head and began to lift .
his head came up far too easily .
a feeling , as if she had just touched the slimiest thing on earth , swept over prissi .
her fathers neck was broken .
his eyes rolled toward her and fluttered in recognition .
he whispered , wallet .
his lids dropped down .
when prissi rolled her father so she could reach into his back pocket to get his wallet , his head slipped from her other hand and smacked against the floor .
screaming first and , then , vomiting just as she passed the frozen coffee drinkers , prissi rushed out the front door of the kaffekiosk , took two strides , bent her knees and .
here , here , prissi .
prissi , here !
prissi was a few meters in the air .
two buildings away , with his body in shadow and his head just far enough forward to be painted with sunlight , was jack fflowers waving a hand to draw her closer .
quick .
over here .
prissi flung her wing up so quickly in order to change directions that she felt the joint half pop .
as she careened toward jack on a wing and a half , she felt like her mind , as well as her body , was being pulled in too many directions at once .
her touchdown by jack was more controlled crash than landing .
she sprawled forward .
he caught her in his arms , held her tightly for a long moment , flashed a snowy white smile , and pulled her into an alley .
halfway down the shadowy corridor prissi could see a bulkhead with its doors thrown open .
holding her shoulder to diminish the pain , prissi raced down the alley way a step behind jack .
in here .
quick .
jack stood aside so that prissi could go down the dark steps into a darker gloom .
as she hurried past him , prissi turned too quickly and caught the lower portion of her dislocated wing against a sharp corner of the steel door .
an excruciating pain shot from her shoulder to her stomach and the rest of her coffee shot from her mouth and nose .
puking pluto .
go .
go .
go .
the panting winger staggered down the ancient worn metal steps , which clanged in protest at her weight .
jack followed her for three steps then turned to close the metal flaps above him .
the small space at the bottom of the stairs smelled of rust and rot .
in the dim light sieving through the rusted bulkhead doors , prissi studied the buildings door for a split second before yanking its handle .
nothing happened .
she violently twisted the handle and shoved the door .
nothing happened .
she tried again , then snapped her head around to jack whats going on .
it wont open .
probably locked .
prissis voice pierced the small space with the sharp crack of an ice break in the arctic .
what ?
you brought me here ?
to a dead end ?
what a freeieekin feeb .
she shouldered jack aside and started back up the stairs .
jack grabbed her wing , the dislocated one , and prissi gave a high pitched moan .
jack dropped the wing as if he had been shocked .
shut up .
theyll hear you .
prissi was so incensed at jacks stupidity in bringing her to a place with no escape , and his arrogance in touching her , that she was vibrating .
finally , to keep from exploding , she aimed a punch at his head before veering off and smacking the side of the stairwell .
prissi , stop it , jack whispered as he took her arm and led her back down the stairs .
prissi pulled away , darted back up three steps , whirled around and flung herself into the air .
she smashed into the rotting door , felt it give and simultaneously felt her shoulder snap back into place .
cautiously , she half flared her wing in the enclosed space .
she was satisfied that , if necessary , she would be able to flyalthough for how long was another matter .
the feeling that one thing was going better stopped when she heard the sounds of footsteps crunching over the alleys carpet of broken glass and gravel .
jack held a finger to his lips in a way that reminded prissi of her father just minutes before .
the tears that instantly welled in her eyes as she thought of her father further blurred the door handle as she half knelt to inspect it .
more steps .
prissi tugged on jacks sleeve and whispered , push .
she pointed to where a crack in the door , seemingly new , probably from her slam , showed above and below the lockset .
a muffled , down here , came through the door .
prissi placed her hands above and below the doorknob and wedged her feet back against the edge of the second step .
when she twisted her neck to see what jack was doing , he was just standing there .
for a brief second , prissi thought that he didnt seem to care if he were caught .
she hissed and jerked her head at the door .
jack slowly followed her example .
despite the fear and adrenaline boiling within her , prissi was distinctly aware of jacks shoulder alongside hers and the long patch where their two thighs touched .
the crunching outside stopped and the light inside the bulkhead dimmed , then , brightened as someone moved about in the alley .
hurry up .
the command shot through the rusty holes and caromed inside the stairwell like a marble in a box .
prissi twisted her head toward jacks face just three inches away .
making her gaze move up from his lips , she looked into his eyes and nodded .
both sucked in deep breaths and began to push .
the door creaked .
shes in here .
crunch , crunch , crunch as someone ran down the alley .
prissi groaned , a sound which reminded her of the sound her father had made on the coffee shop floor , as she pushed with all of her strength .
jacks efforts and sounds joined hers and together they sounded like spatting cats under a full moon .
the door cracked .
a narrow beam of light split the door they were pushing against as the bulkhead door above was partially opened .
prissi grunted in a voice she herself didnt recognize .
cmon down , hero .
ill break your freeieekin wing , too .
a muffled whisper , get on that side .
another crack .
prissi felt like she was doing most of the work .
she thought the veins in her forehead were going to burst through her skin like broken springs .
crack .
the door gave way , but prissis triumphant yell lasted only a quarter second .
the door had opened just ten centimeters before it was held in place by a security chain .
the beam of light from above widened .
now !
prissi , her whole body turned to energy like some graphic novel heroine , propelled herself off the step and smashed her good shoulder into the door just at the chain .
the rusted screws holding the jamb plate in place ripped loose .
the door hurtled open and prissi hurtled after it .
she barely managed to keep herself from sprawling across the floor by grabbing at the door frame as she sped by .
regaining her balance , she could see in the light coming from the bulkhead row after row of cheaply made shelves and scores of pallets stacked with open and sealed cases of wine and liquor .
immediately , prissi knew where she was .
isabels house of spirits , was the largest liquor store in manhattan .
the frantic girl ran to the first open case she saw , a case labeled veuve cliquot , and grabbed two bottles from it .
when she whirled back toward the entryway she almost took jacks head off as she windmilled both bottles toward the pair of legs coming down the bulkhead steps .
both bottles fell short of their target , but they did explode , sending flying shards of glass and spumes of glistening pungent bubbles everywhere .
someone shouted .
maybe in anger .
maybe in pain .
as prissi retreated to get more ammunition , jack scrambled past her with a bottle .
dumbnation , jack , is your other arm broken ?
as prissi grabbed more ammo , she caught the labelcorton charlemagneout of the corner of her eye .
two nearly simultaneous explosions .
then , three closely spaced individual ones .
jack finally followied prissis lead and returnedcame back with two bottles in each hand and one tucked under an arm .
a half case of pommery exploded .
then , more explosions .
more shouts .
a detonation of haut brion brought on a scream .
the wine went from a splash to a puddle to a pool spreading across the floor .
suddenly , there was a loud noise from behind , and the whole basement jumped into relief as six banks of ceiling lumos came on .
what the .
feet came pummeling down a set of protesting stairs behind where prissi and jack , now holding two sets of legs at bay , were waging war .
prissi jerked her head at jack .
they unloaded the bottles in their hands and skittered sideways down an aisle to hide .
a behemoth of a woman , refrigerator big , with a head of blowzy black hair so froed it made her head seem disproportionately large compared to her immense body , waddled , ran , something , fast and implacable toward the battleground isabel came swinging an immense aluminum bat like it was a kitchen spoon .
the owner saw the damage , the assault on her most precious vintages , the finest wines northern europe had to offer , and shot forward with a speed that should have been impossible considering her obesity .
she took a roundhouse swing at the one set of legs .
the resulting noise reminded prissi of walking on wet peanut shells .
she and jack didnt wait to see the fate of the second set of legs .
moving quickly and quietly , they headed toward the stairs , which still vibrated from isabels descent .
prissi whispered , tiptoe .
with the exaggerated movements of amateur clowns in a small town farce , they silently mounted the stairs and entered a small office with a large window opening onto isabels immense display of the worlds harvest of fruits and grains .
a slam and a scream from down below .
my pommery .
my god , my pommery .
you slug .
jack started to grab the door handle , but prissi stopped him .
plan ?
jack shrugged .
go slow .
look normal .
if that doesnt work , then .
run like hell .
ill meet you atatnypd in an hour .
okay ?
jack nodded .
he started to step aside , but prissi shook her head .
no , you go first .
if my wings catch something or screw up some new way , it wont affect you .
go .
go .
go .
there were four clerks on the floor , as well as dozens of customers , when jack eased through the door .
prissi watched his jittery non nonchalant walk through a store forbidden to anyone under the age of twenty three .
a clerk looked up , wondered where jack had come from , appraised him and immediately started on a diagonal to cut the under age interloper off before he could escape .
through the glass prissi saw the clerk mouth something .
jack froze and a second clerk approached on his flank .
prissi opened , then , slammed the office door as hard as she could .
customers and clerks both looked to see what had caused such a noise .
prissi pulled at her hair as she churned forward .
omagod , omagod .
shes fallen .
aunt izzy .
tia izzy , she fell down the stairs .
several customers , obviously regulars , looked above the check out lanes to where a huge hologram of isabel , deeply cleaved in an operatic red dress with hair much blacker and more controlled that what prissi had just seen , smiled down benevolently on her customers like a mahatma on his initiates .
the clerk closest to jack wavered , then , as he saw two other clerks hurry toward the back of the room , he turned his attention back to the teener .
jack broke his beeline so he could put a large display of iowa chardonnays between himself and the clerk .
prissi intentionally staggered against a row of nano brews .
green and brown beer bottles went tumbling .
her leg .
omagod .
omagod .
her poor leg .
blood .
twenty more bottles crashed to the floor .
catching prissis diversion out of the corner of his eye , jack took up the same tactics .
a large , slowly spinning globe held paks of the worlds snacksbanger and egg crisps from scotland .
algae green styro flavored peapod shapes from japan .
setting sun orange cumin and cinnamon flavored extrusions from india .
other extrudings , improbably pink , of a meat like texture , from east of the urals .
crunchy fried and fiercely spiced not yet endangered insects from the fifth world .
jack toppled the globe and tromped through the destruction .
bags burst and sharp smelling shrapnel flew in all directions .
jack was less than four strides from the door .
prissi was thrice that distance away .
people were moving in all directions .
short people , unable to see over the counter to determine the cause of the explosion assumed terrorists and either dropped to fetal positions or stampeded toward the doors .
the clerks , knowing the eponymous owners wrath at the destruction they had not been able to prevent , began dropping to their knees , like grief stricken mothers after a natural disaster , to salvage unbroken bottles of wine and beer .
prissi picked up the pace even as her eyes dartedback and forth , up and down , trying to pick a path through the maze of obstacles to freedom .
the baby !
the baby !
tia fell on the baby .
a whole rack of discount kurdistan cabernets , bottles ejecting from the racks like torpedoes in a submarine , shot across the path in front of prissi .
she yelped and half beat her wings to get over the hurdle .
from ahead , jack screamed , goal !
as he burst from isabels out onto 21st street .
prissi beat her wings again , but she had too much adrenaline flooding her body .
in a split second , she was two meters in the air .
her head banged into a light fixture .
freeieekin hesus mimi .
her wings paused .
she lost her balance and fell into a safety cushion of snack bags .
dozens of bags simultaneously exploded from her weight .
the air filled with things , mainly orange and yellow colored , spewing the smells of dehydrated onion and garlic , smoke and chipotle .
prissi tried to get up , but slipped on the debris .
tried again .
took an outstretched hand .
rose .
tried to disengage her hand from what she now saw was a red faced clerk .
she screamed in terror , my baby !
my baby ! !
tia crushed my baby !
and snapped her hand free from the clerk , now paralyzed in shock , as he imagined a collision of isabel and baby .
prissi juked left to freeze the last clerk , then , side slipped through the doorway .
she flapped her wings , and went airborne trailing orange , yellow and red particles like the tail of a comet .
no jack .
prissi flew low to the ground and as close to the buildings as she dared until she came to the end of the block .
as soon as she turned up first avenue , despite the throbbing ache in her shoulder , she elevated as quickly as she could .
prissi flew north to 22th street before swinging back south and flying so low over the tops of the buildings that her shoes barely cleared the roof .
prissi landed back from the edge of the building facing onto 21st street directly across from isabels and scuttled forward until she could scrunch down in a corner behind the worn limestone parapet .
she shifted her gaze from the skies above to the sidewalks and doorways below .
no jack .
prissi slunk down even tighter against the crumbling brick when three hawks swooped down and landed .
two of the officers book ended isabels entrance while the third dropped down into the shadow of the alley .
the hawks pushed into isabels , then came out a few seconds later with the red faced clerk who had grabbed prissis hand .
he gesticulated in such a dramatic way that prissi thought that he might be an out of work mime .
finally , he pointed west .
the breathless teener guessed he was indicating which way jack had gone .
seconds later , two people holding coffee mugs like weapons burst from the kaffeekiosk and ran toward the hawks .
within five minutes , six more hawks arrived .
prissi watched them search the alleyway and cordon off the kaffeekiosk .
a roto arrived and two medics jumped out and started to go into isabels , but a hawk pointed them toward the kkk .
prissi decided that she couldnt watch was going to be brought out of the coffee shop .
plus , her african neurons were telling her it wasnt safe to stay however just as she was preparing to leave the safety of the shadows , she noticed an aero lim cruising slowly down 21st street west of first avenue .
it came to a stop , but stayed hovering outside a storefront whose signs announced it as the phosphor essence .
since prissi rarely saw a limo this far south and , when they did , lighting and lamp shops werent likely to be their destinations , the girl drew back and continued to watch .
the phosphor essence door opened and a blur , but a blur whose size , shape and blue and white wings reminded prissi of jack , bolted across the sidewalk and dove into the car .
prissi got a sickening feeling deep in her guts .
the aero lim floated off .
prissi waited a couple of minutes more for the nauseous feeling to pass before flying uptown .
by the time she was north of thirtieth street , she had formulated a plan .
she swept down into thirdtown and bought a tibetan hat , which smelled like sour milk , to cover her hair and a bamboo vest that only a dwert would wear .
she landed on a secu booth on thirty sixth street and debited everything left in her savings account after going through her fathers wallet and not finding the pin code for his debit card .
prissi flew up fifth avenue into traffic heavy enough that she had to pay more attention to her flying than the events of the last hour .
arriving at 42nd street ten minutes before her proposed rendezvous with jack , prissi reconnoitered a block north , then looped the loop so that she was headed back south .
she flew two blocks back the way she had come , looped north again , did a short glide , landed on the battlements of a twenty story building and fought the push from the thermals streaming up the buildings face before scrambling behind a winged gargoyle keeping watch from its gothic aerie .
removing her hat , prissi stared down at the well worn lions protecting the entrance to the nypd .
twenty minutes later , from her coign of vantage , prissis attention was drawn from the cramp in her thigh to a cleaned up , confident jack getting out of a beat up hack and moving quickly up 5th avenue toward the datarium .
squinting her eyes , the teener thought she could make out another passenger in the hack .
she also thought that jack was looking good , very good , for a run away .
when he got to the first lion , he sprinted up the steps , taking them two at a time .
prissi wasnt exactly sure what she should do .
the after effects of the attack and escape pulsed in her temples and tingled her fingertips .
jack .
jack ?
friend ?
foe ?
rescuer ?
turncoat ?
the evidence was mixed .
he showed up outside her apartment and in the next two days she was attacked three times .
today , what was the probability that he just happened to be outside the place where her father was killed ?
there .
she had thought it .
the thought she had been keeping at bay .
pushing off and swatting awaylike mosquitoes , like bees , even while she was hurling bottles and running and smashing chips and flying in fear .
dead .
she couldnt fathom that .
coffee and plans , admittedly scary plans , one minute and a snapped neck the next .
paying for something she had doneor was doing , whose importance remained in shadows .
her father .
her boring , irritating , aloof , pedantic , all wise and ever ignorant father .
gone .
prissi felt something slide up and out of her stomach , but this time it didnt churn up her throat and burst from her mouth .
this time it got caught at the top of her rib cage where it shook the bars of that prison until it broke free .
she sobbed until her throat was raw , her eyes burned like open wounds from her salts and her chest ached as if she herself had stopped isabels bat .
finally , she forced herself to think of jack because the answer was important .
friend ?
foe ?
or , neither ?
maybe a pawn ?
or . ?
century .
is that what he had said ?
what did that mean ?
a broken neck .
prissi couldnt keep the thoughts of her fathers neck from intruding .
rather than deal with them , she hurled herself from the parapet and shot across the street to a botched one hop landing at the top of the nypds worn steps .
prissi wiped the blood from her palms , ignored the tears in the knees of her aeros and went inside .
prissi found a perplexed jack looking at a display of covers from a defunct inkzine called the new yorker .
before he could say a word , prissi banged his shoulder .
cmon .
she hurried off to the spears reading room .
she walked past the scanners and sniffers and made her way under the arched windows and ornate gilt ceiling to the back of the immense room .
with the heavy reassurance of a d terror ence door close by and the entrance to the room so far away , prissi felt relatively safe being with jack .
when she looked at him , he stared back .
she knew that he was studying her red eye rims , blotchy skin and a still leaking nose .
before he got past , are you . ?
prissi shook her head so emphatically that fluid flew from her nostrils .
no .
not at all .
dads dead .
they killed my dad .
jacks horrified look seemed real .
who ?
to keep from crying again , prissi relied on an old stand by , ecoists , afro nationalists , crypto christians , radico greens , nihilists , the spawn of mordor , satan , fifth world marxists .
who knows ?
prissi paused her protective stream of sarcasm , then narrowed her eyes , which made them burn even more , to a dark beam of inquisition , maybe , and most likely , your grandfather .
as far as prissi was concerned , jacks laugh was too loud and too sharp to be natural .
my grandfather ?
how ?
hes an old man about two breaths from death himself .
is there some natural separation between age and power ?
lear seemed to have some trouble with that .
listen , jack , ever since i started looking into centsurety , your dear grandfathers pet project , things got bad , then worse , and , now , horrible .
my dads dead as well as a man in new jersey .
ive been attacked twice , i think by the same guyz , and the only thing that i can see that connects all of the data points is a company that went up in smoke a long time ago .
prissi , youre wrong .
my grandfather is a good man .
i know .
no , jack , youre wrong .
the only thing you really know is that joshua fflowers is a good grandfather .
you dont know any more than that .
look at me , in the last few days ive learned that i dont know anything for sure about my parents .
ive got pix of someone who looks a lot like my mother might have looked like a long time ago and guess what jackthis woman who looks so much like my mother doesnt have my mothers name .
she has the eyes and nose and chin and smile of my mom , but not her name .
which is just a teeny bit interesting to me , jack .
intriguing .
mysterious .
but with both of them dead , what happens to the mystery , jack ?
and if i dont figure out the mystery , then what happens to me , jack ?
of course , your grandfather is involved .
prissi slammed a fist into jacks upper arm .
and if i had any brains , id get as far away from you as possible because youre just too much of a coincidence .
youre like one of those guys running on and off stage in a moliere play .
except its too scary to be a farce .
i should either get away , fast , or , prissi grabbed jacks arm , kidnap you and trade you for my own safety .
jack crossed his arms onto the library table , then , dropped his head onto his arms .
youre completely wrong , prissi .
my grandfather , if he can even think , is worried about what organ is going to fail next .
have you seen the newz ?
hes busy dying at the juvenal institute .
you said two attacks .
what was the other attack ?
when prissi told him of the details of her flight down the west side levee , jack said , why do you think those two events are even connected ?
isnt it more likely that , rather than my grandfather reaching out from a coma to ruin your life , that you happened to get mugged flying around at night when you should have been home ?
and the thing today ?
couldnt that have been a robbery ?
yeah , sure .
they wanted my coffee .
look , jack , i like caffeine more than most , but i still dont see myself killing anybody for their kona .
my dads dead , jack .
and if i wasnt such a dambed plucky young heroine , i might be , too .
and youd be worried over who was going to dance with you at winter ball next year .
at prissis levity , jack lifted his head , but prissis face , streaming with tears , belied her tone .
got ta go , jack .
where ?
where are you going , prissi ?
prissi looked at jack and tried to read his face .
but whatever was written there was indecipherable to her .
she gave him a half pat , a half smile , a half sigh , and a full shrug before she pushed him away from her perch and started across the room .
when she was halfway across , without looking around , she gave him a half wave .
she hurried out of the nypd , even though hurrying through a public place often brought unwanted attention from guards and cameras .
as soon as she was outside , prissi launched and flew back to her previous perch .
it was fifteen minutes before jack came out .
he stood above the two nypd lions for a moment , almost as if he were posing , before launching off the top of the steps , flogging south to the end of the block , and making a lazy turn onto 41st street .
less than a minute later a black aero lim pulled out of the same street and eased into traffic .
prissi looked to see if she could see a patch of blue and white , but the windows were tinted too darkly for that .
prissi sat in her aerie and thought about her next move .
she could go back to the apartment .
dangerous .
or , try to find where her fathers body had been taken .
dangerous .
she could see if she could stay with nancy .
deprezzing .
or , go back to al burgeys house to try to findwhatsomething that made some sense .
dangerous and deprezzing .
or , she could dart back across the street to the library to see if she could find more pieces to the puzzle .
boring , but .
or , she could call dr. smarkzy to see what he would suggest .
maybe .
prissi wasnt sure whether she was being tracked or followed , but she also certainly wasnt willing to concede to jacks notion that the events of the last two days were mere coincidence .
coincidence was too easy .
prissi remembered how in honors lit , mz .
carbarari , after praising the humanity , psychological insight and extraordinary language skills of shakespeare , had derided him for his dependence upon coincidence to move so many of his plots forward .
chapter twenty two not a safe house it took prissi another twenty minutes before she found the energy to launch herself into the air .
being careful to favor her right wing , she flew north to spicetown .
although it made her nervous to be just a few blocks from where the creepy richard baudgew lived , she figured that spicetown was the best neighborhood she knew to do what she needed to do .
as soon as she landed , she began walking as fast as she could along the crowded streets .
lots of people looked at her wings , but she ignored them .
after three blocks , she darted into a narrow store selling ethno clothes .
inside , the lights , oozing like an oil spill , made it almost impossible for prissi to tell what color of clothing she might be buying .
between glances to see if anyone was staring through the windows , prissi pawed through racks of brightly dyed poorly made clothes until she finally found two tops and two pairs of yurskins dyed a polluted river brown .
she handed the clerk , who looked to be ethiopian , cash , then vibrated while he processed her purchases in african time .
six blocks away she found a pair of used brown lightweight flight shoes .
two blocks closer to the river , prissi bought socks and underwear .
still walking toward the river , she stopped at a civvis and bought a pak of bubble tags .
a block from the river prissi ducked into a run down kaffeekiosk and ordered a turbo kona .
she walked out through the back of the store and into an alleyway .
turning right , she trotted toward the river .
she made her way through the maze of quayside debris until she found a relatively isolated spot .
she drank her coffee and downloaded her mypod to two of the bubble tags as she listened to two jamaicans crooning carib gospel while they filleted fish from two big blue bins .
when the download was complete , prissi walked back to 139th street and made a bee line toward a store she had noticed earlier as she had done her other shopping .
a half dozen young boys , with weak tea to double espresso colored skins , were fardin and goophin in front of the run down electronics store .
for the third time in a row it was the shortest boyprissi was beginning to think that she might have discovered one of the immutable laws of males teenerz tnaturewas the one started the confrontation by leaping in front of her just before she reached the door .
when she stopped , two other boys began sliding their hands down her feathers .
prissi shivered dramatically in revulsion , which encouraged the boys to do more .
the one on the left began flicking a long chopstick thin finger at the tips of her pinions .
prissi bent forward and emitted a sob .
the assailant in front of her started to laugh , but stopped short when prissi leaned her right shoulder into him , then swept his legs out from underneath him with her left leg .
he sprawled on the sidewalk with a smear of blood on his cheek where it had smacked into the concrete .
prissi thanked her african elementary school for its mandatory courses in self defense as she snapped an elbow into the chest of the boy to the left while he was staring at his vanquished friend .
she flared her wings as she stepped toward the shop door .
an extremely tall black stick man , who prissi guessed must be masai , laughed a distant rolling thunder as prissi pushed her way through the door .
warrior woomahn .
prissi salaamed as she greeted him .
when prissi told the shop owner what she wanted , his hands began to move in a way that reminded her of a crane walking along the shore .
the offer and counter offers went back and forth as regular as a metronome .
prissi listened to the words , but paid most her attention to the mans hands .
when she was sure she had done as well as she could , given that she wasnt in a burundian bazaar where competitors could see one another and there was no such thing as a two party negotiation , prissi conceded .
frowning , as if disappointed that an agreement had been reached so quickly , the stick man disappeared through a faded polka dotted curtain , which , prissi guessed , probably had begun its life hanging from a cheap shower rod .
while she waited , prissi walked toward the front of the store to see if her tormenters were still hanging about .
even though she couldnt see them , prissi was not reassured that they werent close by .
stick man returned with a mypod so old and battered that his customer laughed in wonderment at the price he was demanding .
flighty hands flicked away her concerns as easily as winter flies .
prissi took out the bubble tags she had used to download her mypod .
despite the incredible amount of data , the relic loaded in seconds .
prissi scrolled and found her files and folders in place .
the download bit counter total matched the upload .
the gps was accurate when she switched that on .
there was no way to check to see if the altimeter would read accurately .
she keyed in the address for the nypd and the correct flight plans popped up .
as prissi fiddled with the device , the stick mans fingers stopped their dance .
when she looked up , the smile he gave her with the few teeth he still owned showed brilliant white against watermelon red gums .
his teeth looked so healthy that prissi knew that it wasnt disease that had caused the loss of the others .
sadness dropped over her like a shroud .
a second later , she flung it off by deciding to be happy that whatever malign african force had coveted the mans teeth wasnt malignant enough to take his smile .
before that smile faded , prissi asked the stick man for a favor .
he immediately agreed and led her past the polka dotted curtain .
the back room was dark , piled high with boxes and smelled of garlic and harissa .
the thin mans worn orange flips slapped against the treads with a sound like soft clapping as he climbed a flight of rickety stairs .
since the stairs were being used more as shelving for another jumble of boxes than as a means of elevation , prissi was extra careful with her wing tips .
two flights up , they came to a matte black metal door with a chicken wire reinforced window letting in smog colored light .
after unlocking the door and opening it wide to let her through , prissis benefactor murmured a goodbye .
prissi touched his wrist , no bigger than a small white childs , as she thanked him .
again , the bright gums and handful of teeth emitted their warmth .
a second later his face was gone and a half second after that , prissi heard the snick of the lock .
keeping away from the edge of the roof , prissi carefully reconnoitered the sight lines from the surrounding buildings .
after she had decided on the rookerys most private spot , she shucked off her kanga , and stripped off her old clothes while keeping her wings close to hide her nakedness .
she hopped and twisted her way into her new clothes as she tried to blot out the smell of patchouli coming off them in clouds .
when the teener was dressed , she wadded her old stuff into a bag and launched herself from the backside of the building .
she flew south and west until she saw a re cyclist .
dropping down , she trailed behind him as he pedaled his cart south down fifth avenue alongside the park .
when he stopped to collect a pile of shoes in a string bag set out along the curb , prissi swooped down , dropped her old clothes into the open yellow bin behind the back wheel , before swooping back into the air .
free from the weight of her past , angry at her future , and ignoring her bodys weaknesses , prissi beat her wings hard .
she climbed and climbed and climbed until , by the time she was at the bottom of the park , she was higher than the top of the airiemore than five hundred meters higher than her license allowed .
she looked down at joshua fflowers roof top gardena maze of shrubbery wrapped around more than two dozen white marble statues of mythical beasts .
as she moved closer to take a better look , the security lights began flashing to warn her off .
she dipped a wing , swung away from her tormentors home and flew west toward the hudson .
from being up so high , the girl was able to glide almost the whole way across the hudson river to new jersey .
and , even though her shoulder seemed to be popping out every ten minutes , with so much else going on , prissi never even thought of crashing into the turbid brown water far below .
the hydroaerophobia that had bothered her just the day before was crowded out by too many other kinds of more realistic fears .
despite having no warning of her visit , except for the alarms going off , nasty nancys parents were gracious when prissi landed on their roof .
prissi lied that she hadnt called ahead because her mypod was acting up rather than saying that she was staying off the grid because people were trying to kill her .
despite duttons emphasis on honor , prissi thought that proper etiquette called for the lie .
nancy , who had been out buying clothes , seemed aloof when she returned however , as prissi filled her bff in on what had been happening , nancy grew warmer .
that concern , however , stopped as soon as prissi , blubbering through a squall of tears , told her about her fathers death .
through the fog of her tears , prissi watched nancys eyes grow large as she described to her friend what had happened .
it took prissi a minute to understand that it was concern for what danger might be following close on prissis heels , rather than concern for prissi herself , that had nancys attention .
the teener had hoped that her roomie would invite her to spend the night .
she assumed , since the sloans were wealthy , that their security systems would keep her safe .
when she realized that no invitation was going to be made , prissi made her goodbyes .
as she was walking prissi toward the door , nancys conscience seemed to override her sense of self preservation .
what about your dad ?
what are you going to do about his services ?
appalled at nancys naivet , prissi barked , nothing .
what can i do ?
if i were to show up for anything , like claiming the body , the same thing will happen to me that happened to him .
but what about school ?
freeieekin a , nancy , dont be such a dwoof .
i cant go anywhere im expected to go .
whatever ive opened up is enormousand i dont even have a clue what it could be .
my dad said that they had found something , a key of some kind , biological , chemical , something that opened up what turned into a pandoras box .
what was it ?
prissi flapped her hands to keep from hitting nancy , which seemed to be the only obvious thing which would make her feel better .
jay zee , would i be here fumbling around if i knew ?
something with my moms science , something happened that made him so ashamed or afraid that when he was talking about it he couldnt get past metaphors and similes .
so , the surviving family member and scientific detective is pretty much clueless .
nancy nodded enthusiastically .
hubris .
something with hubris .
when the pride of man leads him to act like the gods .
its got to be something like that .
prissi shook her head disconsolately , i dont know .
and i dont have time to speculate .
at least , not here .
ive got to get somewhere safe .
you have to go back to school , prissi .
you cant stay here , you know you cant .
it wouldnt be fair .
but at school , youll be safe .
even if whoever is after you knows youre there .
think of the kids they protect .
i mean if joe fflowers can be kept safe , so can you .
pretty delusional for a cynic , nancy .
school doesnt even start for another two weeks .
what am i supposed to do in the meantime ?
hide in the laundry room and eat tofrutos ?
even if i made it back to school safely , id be fogged in a day or two .
i wish i could go back , though .
i wish i could talk to smarkzy to see if he knows whats going on , but now that ive found out that he played a part in it , im not even sure whether i can trust him .
he was the one who got me started .
did he use me to flush something out ?
something that was too dangerous for him to do ?
i dont know .
i dont want to think that , but i dont know .
so , dont go .
just call him .
talk to him .
omagod , you dont understand anything .
everybody i talk to , my dad , burgey , the guy in verona has been killed .
if i call smarkzy and hes innocent , he gets hurt .
if hes part of what is going on , then ive just helped them pick up my trail again .
nancy , whose face had indicated while prissi was yelling at her that she was prepared to respond in kind , suddenly went rigid .
what does that mean ?
everyone you talk to ends up dead , and you come here ?
you come here andandinfect me and my parents ?
nasty nancys short fat arms shot out like battering rams and she slammed prissi in the shoulder , the same shoulder that had been dislocated earlier in the day .
get out !
what are you doing to me ?
get out !
now !
by the time nancy finished her tirade , her voice was high and loud and an umbra of spit mist hung in the air .
prissi started to put a finger in nancys face , but , suddenly , she felt so exhausted , so deprezzed and so defeated , that the idea of just lifting her hand was overwhelming .
she made herself walk out the rooftop door , but once she was outside , even though she knew her nancy would be watching through a gap in the curtains , prissi stood immobile .
she felt too tired to fly at all , let alone to fly safely .
and , even if she had more energy , she had no idea where she should go .
the fear and anger , which had energized her ever since leaving the hospital so many hours before , that had flared up with her fathers murder and the fight and escape from his killers , that had burned bright with jack fflowers apparent betrayal , was gone , burned out , turned to ash .
now , she was neither afraid nor angry .
she was only empty , numb , hopeless .
prissi thought that if she were to fall from the rooftop where she stood in the dusks bleeding light that she wouldnt even bother to flap her wings .
her sobs and their chemistry wracked her chest and burned her eyes and flayed the back of her throat .
she was fifteen .
her mother was a suicide .
her dad murdered .
betrayed by one friend .
abandoned by another .
privy to some secret or crime of which she herself hadnt a clue .
her home unsafe .
school no refuge .
she had no idea where to go and not much money to get anywhere even if she did .
prissis whole body trembled .
she wanted someone to tell her what to do and where to go and what to sayandandwhat to eat and wear and when to take her bath and brush her teeth .
she wanted to go back .
back before everything was uncertain and dangerous .
back before she knew her parents had been living a lie .
back before she knew anything about centsurety .
back before she knew jack and nancy .
back before noramica .
africa .
she wanted to be back in the thick air , sticky dust , rotten smells and open sores of africa .
and in a split second , prissi knew what she had to do .
to be safe , she would have to get herself back to africa .
where the water wasnt safe to drink and the evening shadows were filled with insects that could leave you shaking with chills and glowing with heat .
but , a place where the satellites didnt spy and the phones didnt work and the current of electricity ebbed and flowed at some unknown forces whim .
she might not be able to put the misery back into pandoras box , but she could run away .
leave the box and the troubles that had escaped and , now , buzzed around her life .
but , before she could run away , she had to run toward something .
a small flick at the edge of her peripheral vision let prissi know that nancy still was watching .
and , although less than five minutes before she had been too forlorn to care that her former friend was watching her sob , now that she had a goal , prissi did care .
she brushed the water from her face , took three deep breaths , flapped her wings and flew off into the gloam of the new jersey sky .
chapter twenty three a pleasant surmise dicky baudgew felt like he was ten years old again .
his father , his dull , dumb father who , despite his nearly absolute lack of mental gifts , hated to lose , once again had swept the checkerboard from the kitchen table rather than admit defeat .
dicky stared at the notebook that nestled in his hands .
he had spent hours reading through roan winslows notes and formulas .
he had made sense of much of it , but rather than feeling triumphant , the information he had decoded had only made him hungrier .
the notebook , a small consolation prize after the mornings rather dramatic activities , contained some of the science trinity had developed to extend life , but certainly not all , nor even most .
the puzzle remained .
eternal life had been a multi millennial dream .
what trinity had created did not achieve that dream , but it did triple a persons lifespan .
when fflowers had first told him about the centsurety project , dicky baudgew had wondered what better dreams could be dreamed with two hundred more years to dream them .
however , when the original life extension science that trinity had developed , while still critically imperfect , had been hi jacked by joshua fflowers , who had made a gift of it to favored few , dicky had seen how dreams could turn to nightmares .
fortunately , dicky baudgew was not among the cursed select .
for that snub , he was grateful because joshua fflowers generosity had proven to be a bit of a trojan gift .
the lucky ones , the chosen few , had been given decades more years of life but at the price of even more decades of a crab like crippling .
the ugly dwarf and his friends grew uglier .
by the time of the explosion , trinity had already gone far beyond the imperfect version which fflowers had misused .
exceptional scientists that they were , the members of trinity had analyzed their errors and corrected them .
the notes indicated that .
trinity was sure that it had found the answers .
the secret of long life , centuries long life and all the puzzles that might bring .
by studying roan winslows notes , which his people had found in the girls apartment while the father was off watching over her at the hospital , dicky could decode enough to surmise that the solution involved the foxo3a gene .
he remembered that the fox gene had been identified early in the century with clusters of long lived japanese americans in hawaii .
some of the sketches dicky found led him to believe that trinity had found a way to wrap a complicated prion derived architecture around the fox gene .
what that structure was , and , more importantly , how is had been built , dicky didnt know because what dicky held in his hand was an expurgated , a seriously expurgated , version of trinitys work .
dicky thought how , like leonardo and so many other scientists before her , roan winslow must have been a non trusting soul .
her notes were in code .
code was fine with dicky baudgew .
after all , there had been many reasons at centsurety for mistrust .
and , dicky , of course , liked a puzzle .
but , a puzzle , to be fair , had to have all of the pieces necessary to solve it .
the pages torn from roan winslows note book suggested that this puzzle wasnt fair .
dicky got angry when things werent fair .
dickys fingers ran along the chad that remained from where pages had been ripped from the back of the book before he flicked the notebook onto his escritoire .
to dampen his anger , the little geri took a shallow breath .
if offered the chance to add two hundred more years of life , would he take it ?
he let his breath out .
for once , he didnt know .
it suddenly hit him that longer life to a jade like himself might not be a gift .
at the odd , self pitying moment , he had sometimes wondered whether the twenty extra years the gods curiously had already allowed him were meant as olympian gift or gag .
what he did know for certain was that billions of people would exercise the option of to extend their lives if given the choice .
there also was no doubt in dicky baudgews mind that every government on earth would do what it had to keep its citizens from getting that chance .
long life might be a tremendous good for an individual , but it would bring nothing but trouble for a society .
dicky stood in front of his full length rococo gilt mirror .
he extended his tiny pink fleshy hands to his twin .
would you like to live to be three hundred years old ?
dicky sucked his ancient bee stung lips , another work of art he had acquired during his oriental exile , inside his mouth and opened his eyes ingnue wide .
in a high simpering voice he exclaimed , i would !
i would !
relaxing his face back to that of an old man , he asked , would you be willing to go to work for another two hundred years so that your longevity does not become a burden to your family , community or nation ?
the ingnue returned to the mirror , but she seemed somewhat hesitant , indecisive and , from dickys viewpoint , angry at the injustice that the responsibility for her longer life should devolve onto her .
when there was no response , dicky asked a follow up question , would you be willing to be neutered , or if you already have had children , would you be willing to have those children neutered , so that dear mother earth is not destroyed by over population ?
the ingnues mouth twitched .
are your children , if you have children , going to be happy if , either you outlive them , or if they must wait two hundred years longer for their inheritance ?
the ingnue disappeared and old , clever dicky baudgew was staring at his laughing lovely self .
the road to hell was paved with good inventions .
dickys raucous laugh skittered around his dusty , shopworn seraglio like a cockroach in a can .
chapter twenty four catastrophic consequences the black sky was lightened with small gray clouds , like fingerprint smudges , when prissi landed in the overgrown back yard of a burned out house three blocks away from allen burgeys home .
despite her exhaustion , the winger scurried across the yard to hide in the deeper shadows of the skeletal remains of the back porch .
as she waited for her breathing to slow , she listened .
she had flown from nancys with her flite lites off , which if she had been caught , would have cost her her license for a year .
since it was long past rush hour , there had not been a lot of wingers in the air .
in fact , there had been so few , that it had been relatively easy for her to slalom back and forth to keep away from the paths of the other flyers without going too far astray from her flight plan .
as she flew , to keep bad thoughts from coming , prissi had focused on the beauty of the night .
the lights of other flyers seemed to flicker on and off as their wings beat up and down in a way that reminded prissi of those nights in duttons soccer fields when they were constellated with fireflies .
on the ground far beneath her , thousands of lights of all colors and forms glowedthe algae green parallel lines of the aquaphorous street lights , round red ladybug taillights chasing after the blue white beams of headlights .
the random pattern of yellow , white and blue vid screens made houses look like space stations .
like many other fledglings , when prissi first began to fly at night , especially when she was away from the lumen intensity of the city , she would sometimes become disoriented and think that the lights below were the heavens above .
her flight instructor had called that kind of disorientation sirening .
this night in her flight there had been many moments of confusion , but none were about what was earth and what was sky .
when those wrenching moments had tried to overwhelm her , prissi had fought back by using the lights , the numbing chill of the air , the clean smell high above the earth and the infinite shades of black and blues above and below her as weapons .
arriving over verona , the newly cautious prissi had circled over burgeys dark and apparently empty and unharmed house twice before deciding to land in the overgrown yard behind the stark remains of a nearby burned out house .
ten minutes after landing , prissi was calmer and re invigorated .
and more confident .
her flight and reconnaissance hadnt attracted anyones attention .
with her wings slightly flared to keep them from rustling , prissi began hop scotching from shadow to shadow back toward burgeys house .
having reasoned that if anyone were expecting her , it would be from the air , she had decided to make her way on foot however since most of the homes were likely to have mds or secu cams , she was very careful as she made her way along the winding street .
bars of light , like spectral marimba , hung in the dark outside steel shuttered windows .
from the colors of the bands of light , prissi could tell which rooms held vid screenswall sized screens filled with the life of the world outside brought inside to edify and entertain the vidiots hidden behind their secured windows .
burgeys house was dark and , as she had noticed during her first visit , ridiculously under secured .
she couldnt see a single motion detector .
when prissi found a small window at the back of the house unlocked , her first thought was that burgey was either senile or dangerously defiant .
her second thought was that maybe the window was unlocked because it had been forced open by whoever had killed the old man .
that thought led to whether the killer might still be in the house .
which led to prissis wondering why there was no evidence that the hawks had been at the house .
which led to being slammed full force when it suddenly hit her that it was still the same day she had begun in a hospital bed .
which led to the thought that she was leaving a parade of physical evidence on a house that contained an undiscovered dead man .
prissi took her fingers off the window sill and let them float there as she tried to guess which of the possibilities she had just enumerated were most likely to be true .
finally , the lure of finding somethingdebit card , credit card , uni stamps , jewelry , even cash , and , least likely , but most valued , an explanationpulled her through the window .
she landed with her head up , back arched , wings tightly compressed and her hands deep in a sink of dirty dishes .
despite feeling incredibly vulnerable , she snorted when it struck her that she probably looked like a lizard waiting for its lunch to come buzzing over a swamp .
prissi worked her hands out of the sink onto the counters edge , then , slithered forward until all of her was on the kitchen floor .
being careful to protect her wings , prissi got to her knees and pulled herself up using the chipped edge of the ancient granite counter top .
once up , she took a deep breath .
the house smelled like one of those mixed scents that has no namedust , lonely cooking , skin flakes , ancient soap , loss , bitternessprissi flailed her arms in a sweeping crisscross to stop her list of adjectives .
she told herself that before she got too deeply involved in the quality of the old mans emotional life , she should determine whether his body was still in the house .
although she could feel fear sniffing around her , she reminded herself of all the bodies she had seen in africa dead from unease , disease and worse .
the leds of a half dozen appliances emitted enough light that prissi could see an archway leading out of the kitchen .
standing just behind the arch , she could make out a large ovoid shadow .
gliding into the darker space of what she assumed was the dining room , she stared at the bee hive hut until it revealed itself to be an oval dining room table stacked high with papers .
a second archway at the far side of the dining room led to a hallway .
prissi tiptoed forward .
to the right was the front door .
to the left , a couple of meters back , a steep staircase led to the second floor .
prissi slunk across the hallway and paused under the arch to the room beyond .
she opened her eyes wide , then , squinted as she tried to see into the blackness of what she assumed was a living room .
so little light came through the heavy curtains from the street aquaphors that prissi could not make out more than an indistinction of black and even blacker shapes .
she had just started to ease into the room when she heard a noise .
the high strung girl froze .
the noise was so slight that in the ensuing silence she wasnt even sure she had heard anything .
but , the prickling of her skin told her better than her ears that she was not alone in the house .
her heart started pounding so furiously that she was sure it was going to cause her feathers to rustle .
there .
definitely something .
a step .
and again .
and this time prissi was almost sure the noise was coming from behind her .
from the dining room .
the thought that she had walked past someone hiding behind a door or curtain caused her stomach to surge up and down like a dinghy in a following sea .
she slid into the living room knowing as she did so that she was going farther away from any means of escape .
she tentatively touched the first shadow before her .
leather .
she carefully skirted left even though she was terrified that she was going to catch a foot against one of the chairs legs or something the old man had left on the floora mahjong set , a huge bag of marbles , a set of cymbals , or a ten pound bag of potato chips .
the snigger at the idea of stumbling onto a hassock sized bag of potato chips , something she had already done earlier in the day , with a murderer in pursuit was past prissis lips before she could squeeze them tight .
she knew , now for sure , that she was hysterical .
a small clicking sound .
coming closer .
pause .
closer .
prissi took two more steps .
suddenly , something touched her leg .
she lurched away .
her knee caught the edge of a table .
as she hurtled forward , the black was torn by a horrible shriek .
prissi threw out her arms to break her fall .
the table and whatever was on it fell with a loud crash .
she landed on the floor .
something landed on her for a split second .
then , was gone .
all was quiet .
after a five second eternity of nothing , prissi clicked on her flight lights .
caught in its beam , the worlds scraggliest catback arched like robin hoods bow , fur electrified , broomstick tail twitchingstared back at her with eyes as big as the crown jewels .
freeieekin feline .
are you nuts ?
omagoodgollygod , my neurons will never be the same .
i ought to take three or four of your lives .
hesus jay seuss .
the worlds scraggliest cat cocked its head in a way that made prissi guess it might have grown alongside a litter of black labrador puppies .
when she walked her fingers toward it , the cat held its ground for a couple of seconds to show that it wasnt afraid before bounding from the floor to a chair arm , to the chair back , then , onto prissis back and , finally , out the way it had entered .
as soon as the cat was out of sight , prissi , in between huge choking pants and maniacal laughs , pushed herself to her knees , flicked on a table light and looked around .
the living room was definitely lived in .
the leather chair she had touched as she had entered the room was as brown and creased as a desert dwellers face .
the arms of two upholstered chairs , maybe once in the distant past , forest green and tufted , were gray and smooth .
the floors were scarred the table tops dusty .
at the far end of the room was a glass paned door covered with a yellowing sheer curtain .
the crystal doorknob turned , but when prissi pushed it , the door refused to open .
there was a deadbolt keyhole , but with no key in it .
prissi pulled the curtain aside and saw that what had begun life as a screened in porch had been converted to a bedroom office .
prissi guessed that as allen burgeys disease had progressed , he had adapted his house to fit his limitations .
despite the murky light , she could see that the bed had a handrail and the funnel and tube of a facsi lav so he didnt have to get up during the night .
past the un made bed was a huge desk covered with a mountain range of papers .
even through the locked door , those papers tugged at prissi like filings to a magnet .
with the memory of her successes earlier in the day guiding her , the manic girl wrenched the doorknob back and forth before slamming her hip into it .
nothing happened .
the more she thought about it , the weirder it seemed to prissi for the door to be locked .
regardless of what scenarios she conjured , it just didnt make sense for the bedroom door to be lockedespecially since burgey seemed to be so nonchalant with the security for the rest of the houseunless the geri had left .
if , indeed , he had gone , then , maybe , he was alive .
that thought felt like the first good thing to happen to her all dayexcept for the lox and cream cheese omelet .
she stood still for a moment the better to savor an image of the old man , stubbly chin resting on crippled hands , looking across a table at an old friend who had offered him shelter .
that moment soon passed .
prissi looked around the living room to see what she was going to use to smash a pane in the door before it hit her that some deadbolts needed a key on either side .
breaking a window wasnt going to help .
she about faced and hurried from the living room .
in the kitchen , the worlds scraggliest cat was slunk down over the sink sniffing plates .
when prissi took a step closer , the cat ejected through the open window .
prissi flipped on the overhead light and began opening drawers .
dull water stained knives , bent spoons , a spatula with a partially melted handle , greasy glasses , a baking dish with a black crust of something in the corners .
the remnants of a set of flatwarebut no key .
prissi scanned the room , which looked so forlorn in the miserly yellow light .
the basement door .
before she even took a step , prissi knew that the key would be hanging on a hook just inside the door .
somehow , prissi was not surprised when she found a key that had a tag and on the tag were the initials pl .
although her nerves were firing off like popcorn because of her excitement and fear , prissi tried to be methodical as she sifted and sorted through the stacks of papers on the desk .
a set of worn old fashioned spiral notebooks seemed to be details of the symptoms , progress and treatment of the old scientists disease .
there was a pisan tower of print outs dealing with allen burgeys financial affairs .
she was surprised to see how burgeys first name was spelled .
she thought the usual spellings were alan or allan .
the balances on these financial statements seemed large to prissi , but she guessed they might not be unusual for a person who hadnt spent his life in a decrepit city in equatorial africa .
prissi entered burgeys account numbers in her mypod , even though without pin numbers , the information was useless .
suddenly feeling more exposed than she had since the cats attack , the jittery teen gathered up the papers , jumped up from the desk , switched off the old fashioned puter and made her way in the dark back to the hallway .
using her mypods glow to guide her , prissi climbed the stairs .
the second floor had an old fashioned granite and glass bathroom , which looked like it hadnt been used in ages .
there were equal sized bedrooms on either side of the landing .
as soon as prissi entered the bedroom on the left , she saw the same beaded bag burgey had handed to her the day before sitting on the top shelf of a scarred wooden bookcase .
her hand was trembling as she picked it up .
since it would have taken the crippled man considerable effort to climb the stairs , prissi was sure that burgey had left the bag for her as a clue , just like putting her initials on the tag on the key .
burgey had anticipated that something would draw her back here .
prissis eyes watered with the idea that someone , even if it was an old crippled man , was trying to help her however that intuition seemed to be misplaced when she opened the bag and didnt anything inside .
it wasnt until she turned the bag inside out that she saw there was a tiny opening on the seam at the bottom of the lining .
she worked her finger into the gap and felt something stuck to the bag itself .
a second later she peeled away a tiny piece of sticky tape .
when prissi held it close to her eyes , she saw written in spidery letters coldest green .
although she was positive that the message was meant for her , the phrase sparked nothing in prissis brain .
she rubbed the words with her thumb as if it were a magic lantern which would reveal its secrets given the proper care .
when that failed , she used her fingers to rub her face as if she had made a mistake and it was her wan worn visage that was the genies lamp .
when nothing came , the exhausted teener sat down on a corner of the bed so that she could hang a wing on either side .
coldest green prissi thought that if nancy were around her first thought would be that it was an anagram .
after ten minutes generating steer glen cod and other variations , with none bringing an ah hah moment , prissi decided to take a different tack .
she pretended that her memories were a slide show .
she scanned backward until she was seeing the house for the first time .
the canted sidewalk , the sagging porch , her surprise at how unsecured the house was .
clik .
clik .
the murky face through the screen .
clik .
the old man leaning precariously as he mounted the porch perch .
his conversation .
clik .
back inside .
the wait .
then his return with the bag .
she had removed the crystalbut distractedlybecause of what he was saying about dangerbut there was something that had tweaked her attention at the timeand that waswas .
prissi squeezed her eyes tight better to recapture the moment she had received the bag .
he didnt have it in his fingersbecause they were so twisted .
instead , the bag had been nestled in his palm and he had tipped his hand over , like a water dipper , to let it fall into her palm and it had beenit had beencold .
when she removed the crystal it had been cold , too .
cold .
much colder than room temperature .
prissi bounded off the bed and half fell , half glided down the staircase .
with its bright light and ancient squeezers of condiments , the refrigerator reminded prissi of a reliquary .
there were no green vegetables , nor vegetables of any color in the bins .
there were a few small unlabeled , suspicious looking containers .
since there was so little food , the teener wondered what the condiments were for .
the freezer , however , was much more promising .
spinach , kale , broccoli , peas , green beansa whole assortment of health in dozens of geri pak portions .
prissi pulled everything green from the freezer .
not knowing what , if anything , the old man might have left for her , she was unsure how she should proceed .
would mike or halo heat or running water or infra be more apt to be harmful ?
the peas , broccoli and green beans would be easyopen and sort .
the spinach and kale would be frozen in blocks .
anything hidden in them would be like nuts in their shell .
taking a second to think about it , prissi decided that using the easiest and quickest method might have been on burgeys mind .
she decided to infra everything .
ten minutes later the kitchen sink was filled with defrosted vegetables and the air was filled with the smells of the worlds healthiest vegetable soup .
prissi herself was filled with hope as she was in possession of the pin to a money market fund , a second set of numbers which prissi took to be co ordinates and a postscript from burgey letting prissi know that though he was sick , he was well and on his way to a safer placeas he hoped she was , too .
despite knowing that burgey would be assessed an outrageous bill , prissi began shoving the soggy mass of vegetables down the insingerator .
after everything was turned to ash , prissi locked the kitchen window .
in the office , she shaped cushions and blankets to look like someone sleeping before closing and locking the door .
upstairs , she unlocked the window in the left bedroom , lifted the screen , then closed and relocked the window .
after washing up in the bathroom , she came back into the bedroom .
she closed the door and pushed and heaved and pulled the bed until it was tight against the door .
she went back to studying burgeys financial statements .
she looked at the balances on his accounts and wondered why he had decided to help a stranger .
it wasnt until she leaned over to write the pin number on a piece of paper in case her mypod failed that prissi had her epiphany .
she was writing out the number on the same sheet that she had used to write out the combinations of coldest green .
steer glen cod .
allen burgey .
g l e n l a u r e b y. glen laureby .
allen burgey was glen laureby , her mothers partner , the man who had been holding her mothers hand in the pix .
prissi exploded out of bed , deconstructed her stronghold and began wandering through the house .
thirty minutes later , not having found the pix she was sure must be there , the desolate girl was back in the bedroom .
with the last of her strength , she wrestled the bed back against the door .
hiding in the dark and under the covers , prissi emitted a long deep sigh that morphed into searing anguish which triggered the sobbing that she had been holding off for hours .
her father had never been warm and cuddly .
kind and cool had been his style .
he had become even more reserved after prissis mother had died .
but , despite that emotional distance , prissi never had doubted that he always had her best interests at heart .
she knew with certainty that he did those things for her even though raising a teener girl by himself was not something that would have been at the top of his wish list .
but , he had done it and done it with dedication , consistency and without complaint .
and prissi started to think of their relationship from the other side , her side .
she had depended upon him while she flouted her independence .
she had felt secure in his attention while giving him almost none .
his age , ills , wounds , losses , hopes and wishes had been of very little concern to her .
as prissi fought between going forward with her thinking or turning back toward a less distressful path , something knotted behind her breast bone and began to ache .
the way his head had felt .
his neck so useless .
his look so helpless .
the whisper for her to go .
thinking of her escape , her well being , rather than concentrating on the last moments of his life .
prissi bawled .
like a baby .
with sobs so deep , she feared for her next breath .
loud wounded noises .
bubbles of snot blowing out of her nose and dripping down her lips .
she had been so horrible to him .
she was so horrible .
and she was so alone .
finally , her body ran out of the energy to express her grief and remorse .
she rubbed her chest where the bone felt as if it had been broken .
next , a half dozen whimpers .
a tightly held handful of blanket .
and , finally finally , so many , many hours after waking up in the hospital and eating a lox and cream cheese omelet , sleep .
exhausted blessed sleep .
chapter twenty five the adventures of bob tom and joe joe fflowers is moving in fits and starts , like a jig .
what flummoxes him is how he is fighting his way across the rivers current without moving his arms .
although he is only half conscious , he is sure that the things , things that seem to weigh fifty kilos , hanging from his shoulders are his arms .
it takes the boy longer to realize that the coat which had meant to kill him has saved him .
something has snagged the coat and he is being drawn toward shore .
joe lifts his head to see how he is being rescued , but he can see no one on the shadowy shore .
he drops his head back down on his shoulder and lets himself be pulled along .
five minutes later , joes feet drag against the hudsons grainy bottom .
seconds after that , a hand grabs his shoulder and pulls him out of the river .
whoa .
its a big un .
not much fight , but purty good weight .
lem me see if its a keeper .
joe senses a moon lit shadow hovering over him .
he feels a tug on his collar and realizes that his rescuer is trying to extract something from his coat .
wheejammy .
thats tough skin .
oughta cut it out , mebbe .
less see .
while the man tugs and twists , joe surrenders to the exquisite joy of being unexpectedly , inexplicably alive .
his throat is burned raw .
just thinking of how much it hurts causes joe to heave .
as he turns his head , river water gushes from his mouth and nose .
willikers , hes spoutin .
ahoy , mobynolesseetoo littleahnoby , yessir , noby dick , the little runty whale , he blows .
my first , but runty little whale .
ahoy , noby one , thar he blows .
as his rescuer himself spouts , joe lets his awareness lazily drift down from his throat to his arms and chest .
the cold he discovers there is so profoundly different from anything he has ever experienced that it takes a moment to comprehend what it is .
once he does , a spark of consciousness triggers what should have been done autonomically .
joes body suddenly begins bucking like a wasp stung pony .
whoa , nellie .
whered my whale go ?
whoa !
we got ta get this here bronco broke .
a massive weight centers itself on joes hips .
rough and powerful hands begin pulling his clothes off .
dang , hes got prom queen skin .
get him nekkid , then what ?
while his naked body convulses , but stays on shore , joes mind slides back into the river .
when he comes to , joe finds himself wrapped in a smoky smelling thermet and curled around a small fire .
his throat still is raw , but the inner cold has disappeared .
in fact , his face is too hot .
when he shifts his head away , his action draws his saviors attention .
hey , noby one , you there ?
feelin better ?
you wuz shakin so fierce i thought the devil had your soul .
joe straightens his body .
lay still , little one .
aint you smart enough to get well slow ?
you stay still and i wont .
well , noby , lets get ourselves acquainted .
my names bob tom damall .
and danged if i dont sometimes , but not this here time .
ive been watching you since a little after you stole my boat .
you owe me , noby .
you owe me big for that .
my most favorite boat .
just two days away from makin it all nice , i was .
gone now .
unless it gits snagged up somewhere down river .
but , dont be countin on it , noby , cuz the last i seen it , it was hurrying toward new jersey like a damall tame horse toward stable oats .
even after joes eyes adjust to the early morning sunlight , he cant make out any facial features on the man beyond a pair of small bright crows eyes and a prophets beard .
looking down , joe can see that his rescuers hands are huge .
with them planted on his knees , the fingers reach half way down his calves .
when joe pushes himself up on one elbow , bob tom diddles his head in despair at joes stupidity .
the boy stares at the anchorite for ten seconds trying to figure out if he is dangerous before asking , who are you ?
tole youbob tom damall .
but .
oh , i unnerstand , noby .
you dont really wan na know who i am .
you wan na know what i do cuz you think what i do makes me who i am .
who knows .
you cud be right .
well , first thing , bob tom flares a pair of drab gray wings so that he can lean sideways .
he picks up a monstrous fishing pole with a twenty centimeter red speckled lure and points it at joes face , first thing , and mebbe the most important thing for you , im the best damall flyin fly fisherman on the hudson .
thats no lie .
no one catches bigger , and no one catches better , and damall certain , no one catches more .
and im bound to be the first fly fisherman in these here parts to catch me a noby whale in midstream on the hudson .
although ive pulled out a few rotters in my years .
whew , still remember the stink of oneold , old woman couldnt a weighed more en forty k. looked bigger , of course , cuz of the bloat .
but , she sure rotted up biggern she was and smelled even biggern she looked .
feeling his stomach roil , joe tries to change the subject , you make your living fishing ?
bob tom damalls stertorous laugh rolls up and down the river like cannon fire .
noby , i dont hardly make a livin fishin , furrin and some other things best done at night .
but , i survive and have been since i come up here in 62 .
up from where ?
the tip of the fishing pole transits a one hundred twenty degree arc .
aint it obvious ?
from down there .
i come up and watched a slew of people goin the other way and i said , you know what , bob tom ?
youre right and theyre plumb wrong .
and ill still say that whether thats right or not cause im a feller slow to make up his mind and damall slower to change it .
now , what about you , noby ?
you just tell me what you do , sos ill know eggzactly who you are and jist eggzactly how to judge you .
joe slowly works himself upright to gain some time .
he studies the fire to gain even more .
finally , he looks into bob toms amused eyes and feels obliged to give him some of the truth .
im joe .
i ran away from school and then i ran away from the people who helped me run away from school .
yessir , and , then , you done run away with my boat .
embarrassed despite the humor in bob toms voice , joe murmurs , yes , i did .
and , then , that damall boat ran away from you .
when joe laughs , his throat hurts , yes , it did .
while you were fumblin your way downriver , no offense , but one of the things you aint is a riverman , was it all of you runnin away or was some of you runnin toward somethin ?
joe shrugs his shoulders and gives a small grin , damall , if i know .
bob tom shakes his pole at joe , see , noby , hangin around me just a bit and already youre smarter .
the hermit starts to point somewhere with the pole , then carefully puts it down on the ground , my experience is aways always easier than toward .
bob tom raises a wing so that he can stretch an arm behind the rock he is sitting on .
joe is startled to see that the old man has skinwings .
gray wrinkled folds of leather .
those fusty appendages command joes attention even as the ancient hauls up a raggedy pak of a design as ancient as his wings .
iffen youre all puked out , mightn you be gettin hungry ?
as joe slowly chews strips of dried , black colored meat , which bob tom insists is from the biggest , blackest bear ever caught in the adirondacks , the river manmountainman , joe is uncertain which way to think of him , tells stories about things he has killed of which there is a great diversity in species , but a singularity in characteristics .
each is the biggest , fattest , tastiest , tallest , fiercest , furriest , fastest animal of its kind ever seen in or above the adirondacks or on or in the hudson river and its tributaries .
while bob tom talks non stop , his body goes from absolute stillnesswings relaxed , legs extended , hands on knees , unblinking eyes focused on the fireas still as a zenpro or a hunting dog on point , to a flurry of little acts , like a squirrel in its nestpoking the fire , adding branches , re arranging the rocks at his feet , using a twig to settle the folds of his wings .
the sisyphean sun has rolled itself over the zenith when bob tom asks , whats your plan , noby one ?
the plan was that after the search for me died down i was going to go montreal .
noby , my new friend , you just might be a tetch dyslexic .
montreality , as i see fit to call it haven been there a time or two , is north and this here river flows south .
youve got to go more en forty thousand kliks , some of em none too easy , goin the way youre goin , to get to old montreality .
joe , who has already felt a dozen different emotions about bob tom , experiences a surge of anger swell within him .
i know where montreal is .
i planned to go downriver to albany and then back up to montreal .
so , wheres that plan got you now ?
joe bangs his fists on his knees in exasperation .
i dont know .
but , not to the mountain of reality ?
joe says nothing , but shakes his head in despair .
because ?
joe yells , because i didnt know it was going to be such a fight in the river .
yore a mite feisty , noby , but even so , ive got two thoughts .
the first is that just because you kin put a boat on a river dont make you a riverman .
im a riverman .
you may be lots of things .
i wouldnt know about that , but you aint a riverman .
my second thought is that it aint much of a plan or , mebbe , not much of a man behind the plan , if all it takes is a little bit of roily water to change what a person wants to do .
what do you know ?
im fifteen .
i escaped school and the hawks and my parents .
i escaped the greenlanders .
i got myself here .
son , those greenlanders if theys the ones i think they are , aint nothing more en a den of bristle lipped wimmin .
and youre here cuz i was kind enough to pull you here , instead of doin what i oughta done , which is rescue my very favorite boat .
and , furthermore , if i was to ask you where here is , i bet youd be hard put to say much more en this here is between the north pole and equator .
so , dont yell at me , and , especially dont yell at the kind soul who let you steal his favorite boat instead of making you into jerky and who rescued you and not his dear and favorite boat when a little bitty water couldnt be handled by a whiny little man boy .
seems to me you aint much moren just a little bitty whale with a big spout .
joe fights the tears that are forming in the corners of his eyes , but loses .
when bob tom sees the welling in the boys eyes , he directs his fishing pole toward the hudson .
theres plenty of water out there , noby one .
i dont guess we need any more .
lets see if we cant figger out doin somethin a little more useful .
joe and bob tom spend most of the day resting and making plans .
joe tells more of his story , but he doesnt tell his rescuer any of the details of his family because he isnt sure whether bob tom damall , if he knew , might not think it was a good idea to kidnap and ransom joe fflowers .
the plan the two finally come up with is that bob tom will help joe get to albany , where he will catch a hover train to montreal .
after telling joe to stay put , bob tom takes to the air and flies north up the river .
about an hour later joe spies him flying back south towing a canoe behind .
lets get goin .
im feelin awful bad bout stealin this .
seems sad to have a sin on my soul for such a poor excuse for a boat .
i wouldnt a needed to do it if you hadnt a stole and then lost that favorite boat of mine .
feeling cockier from the food and rest , and also thinking that the boat bob tom has dragged ashore looks much better than what he lost , joe asks , why didnt you just fly south and look for your boat ?
yore gon na question the judgment of the best waterman on the river ?
get in this here sorry boat before i toss you back where i found you .
while bob tom breaks down his fishing pole until it fits into a case no longer than a commuters umbrella , joe climbs into the canoe and sits on the forward thwart .
the river man looks at joe and shrugs in resignation .
tarnation , noby , youre no smarter en a barnyard chicken .
in the back , son , in the back , unless yore hankerin for another little swim .
though he doesnt understand bob toms reasoning for unbalancing the boat , joe crawls into the back of the canoe .
his stupidity colors his cheeks and neck when bob tom lashes his fishing pole into the canoe , hooks a light line from the bow of the canoe to his belt , shoves the boat into the water , and launches himself into the air .
from fifteen meters overhead , the grizzled man tows the canoe into the center of the river to catch as much current as he can .
once in mid river , bob tom lazily flaps his fusty wings kilometer after kilometer .
as a hockey player , joe is used to expending all of his energy in two minute spurts .
the longer bob tom flies , the higher he rises in joes esteem .
after the sun finishes its labors and goes home , the night sky is clear .
the stars are jewel bright and the world is silent except for the skirring of the canoe through the current .
after what must have been an hour , bob toms voice booms down to ask if joes parents are the worrying kind .
they probably didnt start out worrying .
they probably started out being angry that i didnt do what they wanted .
by now , though , im sure theyre worried , especially my mother .
bob tom thunders , how much does that bother you ?
ive been too busy to think about it .
thats damall busy , noby .
mebbe i should save my wind for breathin and let you take this time , since you aint got much to do but sit back and let me work , to think about how you feel about what youre putting your folks through .
joe tips his head to yell up , im not gone forever .
i just need to stay away long enough so that i cant fledge .
okay , noby one , hearin you say that , i just decided that i aint gon na save all my breath .
i grew up in some pretty high hills .
when i was just a kit , i did everything a young'n could do in them hills .
i hiked , climbed , fished , parasailed , spelunked caves , trapped critters , rode mountain bikes and lots more .
you just try to name it and i can just about damall garantee i done it .
and i loved evry minute of it .
i could get all squidged up inside just thinking bout how good and easy , real easy , those times were .
but , noby , you know what ?
they werent nothin compared to flyin higher and higher as the sun sets , or flappin alongside a big old turkey vulture or flyin blind through sunrise fog where all you can see is a ghostly rosy glow way far away .
flyin , noby , why there aint nothing like flyin .
its purty easy for some folks to be god denying with both feet on the ground , but you come up where i am right now and its purty damall hard to imagine that some big hand aint stirred the pot .
okay , im done .
im sure you listened real hard to jist about evry word .
you think about your folks first and , then , you think about what a time wed be havin if you were up here with me .
surprising himself , joe does just as he is told .
he thinks about where his mother would be sitting and waiting and how she might touch a cup of lattea two or three times with her long manicured fingers , touching , but not drinking , blinking , but not crying , and wondering if it is her good son or an evil stranger whos breaking her heart .
after a long time joe leans far back on his seat so that he can see the silhouette of bob tom above him .
he studies the slow , steady , graceful pace and wonders just what the riverman is experiencing .
how silver is the starlight on the tops of the pines ?
how much sweeter is the mix of river smells and fresh air up there ?
what does the hudsons snaky tributaries look like from high above on a moon lit night ?
joe thinks about how a person cant ever go slow enough in a plane to see the same kind of detail as a winger would flapping over the treetops at fifteen kilometers an hour .
a person would see more things in a roto , but with a lot more noise and smell .
and how did a lifetime of seeing those things from above compare to living a small fraction of a life in the cold friction free world of the ice rink ?
it is after eleven and bob tom has been flying for almost four hours before he drags the canoe out of the current and heads it toward shore .
they eat more bear strips and bob tom gives joe something he calls bark brew .
they sleep for five hours before his guide rousts joe awake to tell him that if they get moving they can be in albany just after sunriselate enough to get around without attracting too much attention from the hawks , but early enough that there wont be too many people on the streets .
bob toms estimate proves accurate , but by the time joe comes ashore just under a bridge that carries a rail line across the hudson his plans have changed .
the hours he has had to think have led him to the conclusion that , indeed , he loves hockey , but it has come to him just how much of his motivation not to fly has been birthed by defiance .
it is exactly because flying is what he is supposed to do , what is expected of him as a fflowers , that he doesnt want to do it .
he knows this is normal .
he is acting just like a teener is supposed to act .
but , he tells himself that even the dumbest teener must know that there is a difference between a whim and something that lasts forever .
joe decides that a smart teener wouldnt do something that would permanently thwart his future .
in the hours of being drawn along the moon dappled river by the gray on black shadow above him , joe has come to understand that if it could be a choice between flying now , or flying later , he would choose later .
if , however , the choice were between flying now , or flying never , then , he wants to fly .
when joe tells bob tom that he is going to call to let his parents know that he is coming home , he isnt surprised to see the riverman nod his head and smile in agreement .
what does surprise him is when his guide throws a lock line on the boat , carefully slings his pole case under his wing and cheerfully says that he is accompanying joe to the depot .
you dont have to do that .
im okay .
im grateful for all youve done for me .
ill ask my parents to thank you in more than wordsmaybe with something that could turn into another favorite boat .
just tell me how to get in touch .
bob tom fiddles with the buckle of his pole case strap so that it rides higher on his shoulder .
cmon .
we better get movin .
my guess is the depot aint gon na be close .
i wan na see you safe and sound .
but , ill be fine .
make a promise .
keep a promise .
you didnt promise me anything .
not you , noby one .
my dotter .
i promised my dotter id see you safe .
even before he blurts the question , joe knows the answer and that knowledge surges through his body like a high fever .
blesonus is your daughter ?
bob tom nods as proudly as when he was telling joe stories about his trophy catches .
yep , my one and only .
you were a greenlander ?
part of the kin ?
yep , again .
noby , youre sharpenin up .
i stayed as long as i could for her , but i finally got wimmined out .
them bristle lips got to be where none of em was tolerble for moren the time is takes a tick to puke .
an it was just my luck that the worst one was my soulmate and mother of my one and only .
joe can feel himself on the verge of hyper ventilating .
whos blesonus mother ?
why you know who .
that ole possum ugly bristle lip you done fed her soup to .
joe makes a complicated sound that inadequately expresses the encyclopedia of thoughts and feeling he is having .
flaring his wings to keep the tips off the levee where they are standing , bob tom bends over so that he can slap his huge hands against his knees as he laughs so loud that a small flock of buffleheads dabbling near shore take to the air in disgust .
damall , noby flowers , flesh of intelligent flesh , you are a slow one .
iffen a man was interested in improvin his fortunes , he could do worse than throwin you in a sack and sendin off a ransom note .
just so that dont happen and snarl up my hi n bye with my one and only , ill stay alongside til im satisfied evrythin is just the way it should be .
it takes most of an hour to make their way to the albany noramtrax depot .
when they push their way into the crowded , low ceilinged cavernous room , dozens of heads look up and stare at the unusual duo .
since he has made the decision to go home , joe hasnt thought that there are still good reasons to conceal or alter his looks .
now , however , seeing how much attention bob tom and he are drawing , he thinks that definitely is a mistake .
across the graffiti covered deformed plastic benches he watches several sets of people lean their heads together to whisper .
two raggedy looking bob n hobs , wearing their de rigueur many studded boots and hand chopped pageboy haircuts and carrying their immense skateboreds , get up from their bench and start toward bob tom and joe .
lets go find the commix sos you kin talk to your folks while i trade stares with a couple of these here rough and tough hombreros .
at the commix , all three of the cam fones are out of service .
the blog on the cam fones says theyll be back up in an hour .
joe turns back to see how things are going with the riverman .
the first two bob n hobs have been joined by two more and a tag team of keds .
joe notices that bob toms pole case is off his shoulder and that he is tapping it against his thigh like a truncheon .
joe spins back to the array of iconics before him .
if he cant reach his parents directly , he will have to do it indirectly .
either way , it doesnt seem like theres much of a future in hanging around the depot .
sensing the air behind him go electric , joe quickly swipes and buys a pre paid mypods .
he turns to see the six thugs have formed a circle around the river man .
while his antagonists have the scowls and puffed breasts of the threatening male of most species , bob tom is smiling broadly as he leans on the now extended pole case .
as joe comes closer , bob tom is saying , you young'ns ever heard of paul bunyan or pecos pete ?
if you aint , its yore loss cause im cut from the same cloth .
youll be well advised to turn tail now afore anythin happens to you thatd put a serious damper on yore future happiness .
we get done with you , geri , youll be fardin out your ear .
the relaxed old man looks over the heads of the hostile tribe to say to joe , ah , noby one , i believe our business may be finished herecept for one small item .
do you think you could member what you done with my most favorite thing and mebbe do the same with one of these here young'ns ?
joe nods and edges closer to the nearest bob n hob .
the fat pock faced boy , whose ears stand out two inches from his greasy skunk striped hair , is nonchalantly leaning against his immense skatebored .
another boy , the one who has told bob toms fate , whips his licorice stick frame around to stare at joe forget the geri its the rich dwert we want .
as the leader steps toward joe , joe yanks the skatebored free from the fat boy .
bob tom yanks the lower third of his fishing pole out of its case .
as all six teenerz leap toward joe , he back pedals as he sweeps the skatebored in front of him like a ships boom swinging over a deck .
one boy is knocked into a second , and both stumble to the ground , but the other four keep coming .
knowing that it will take too much energy to change the direction of the eight kilo skatebored , joe keeps spinning like a windmill .
as he comes around he catches one of the keds on the shin .
the boy yelps as he bends down to grab his leg .
i love me a fracas .
bob tom , poking and pointing his chopped off fishing pole like a musketeer his foil , comes at the remainder of the crew from behind .
he stabs one bob n hob hard in the back of the knee .
the leg buckles and the boy goes down .
when the leader turns around to see what has happened , he takes a shot in the stomach so hard that the air which explodes out of him is so foul it could be from his bowels .
git .
ill meet ya outside .
joe looks at the depot entrance and sees that if he goes that way he is apt to get caught up in the crowd gathering there .
he turns the other way and begins running toward the doors that lead to the air trains .
one of the two remaining hobs takes off after him .
once he is through the double doors and out under the canopy that shelters the passengers from albanys bitter rains , joe throws the huge bored down in front of him and jumps on .
even though it has been years since he has ridden a boredskateboreding is definitely not something done , or even spoken of at dutton , except by a retro neo emo named quacksas soon as he is moving joe can feel some of the old body memory coming back .
a big grin crosses his face until he takes a quick look behind and sees that the hob on is bored is is gaining on him .
the boys arms are flashing up and down like pistons , which is a part of skateboreding joe didnt remember .
a second later he realizes that each of the hobs fist holds a long thin bladed screwdriver .
joe guesses the tools arent for making repairs .
seeing the spikes of the screwdrivers draw closer , joe slams his foot to the pavement three quick times trying to pick up speed .
looking to his right , joe sees that the jaded passengers on the departing air train are barely looking out the windows at the unfolding drama he is starring in .
another quick head twist tells joe that he is losing the race .
he looks ahead to see where he can ditch the skatebored and try to outrun screwdriver boy .
twenty meters ahead , the canopy ends and a high mesh fence begins .
the ramp itself curves off to the left .
joe figures that as he enters the curve he will shoot the bored back into his assailant and run to safety .
just shy of the curve , joe hears the hob muttering something .
it takes joe a half second to figure out that his hunter is chanting , stab him .
kill him , in cadence to a click being made by a chipped wheel on his bored .
joes heart rises into his throat as he hurtles into the curve with his knees deeply bent and his center of gravity far off the bored .
the ramp continues back toward the street , but instead of the walkway being edged with grass , it is bounded on both sides by a meter high wall to keep people off the grass .
joe tries to figure the odds of being able to fire the bored at the boy , leap to the wall , then to the ground and outrun his assailant with his bum knee .
instead of seeing himself sprint to safety , the image that arises in joes mind is of two screwdrivers sticking out of his back as he tries to scramble over the wall .
stab him .
kill him , seems to come from just behind joes left ear .
the wheezing teener slaps his foot to accelerate and , as he does so , the exact same noise echoes from behind him .
the street is still thirty meters away when joe feels a thud at the back of his neck .
he flinches as he anticipates the screwdriver being shoved deeper into his flesh .
instead of pain , however , what he feels is his speed suddenly picking up .
as he hurtles down the walkway , he has to work to stay on the skatebored .
keep your damall balance , noby , bob tom yells from ten meters above as he locks the line on his fishing reel and begins towing joe rapidly away from the trouble at the depot .
stab him .
kill him , falls to a whimper as joe hurtles off the walkway and makes a wide sweeping turn into the street , just missing a truclet speeding down the road .
the tiny truc swerves sideways and half its contents , jugs of maple syrup , go spilling from the back and bounce and split along the cratered highway .
the smell of breakfast fills the air .
joe and bob toms return from depot to boat takes less than half the time of their journey from boat to depot .
joes heart is still pounding , but bob tom looks like hed just holed a forty foot putt .
i love me a fracas .
dont get much chance anymore .
mountains are mostly empty .
the bears are scared and i caint quite bring myself to scrap up with all them bristle lips .
damall , that was a good time .
even though i almost hurt my favorite fishin rod poking at them boys .
im awful glad i met you , noby one fflowers .
youve let a little lightning out of the bottle .
what next ?
how bout a walk about ?
you and me and noramicas most thrillin sights and sounds ?
joe finds himself smiling and shaking his head as he compares the man standing before him with his father .
im going to get in touch with a friend with this , joe holds up the new mypod , and have her get in touch with my parents to keep the hawks out of it .
bob tom looks longingly as his fishing pole as he slides it back into its case , sounds dull .
whens the latest you can fledge safely ?
i cant wait much longer .
if im going to do it , i need to go home now and get it done because i have to be back to school in two weeks .
i could turn you into a passable riverman in two weeks .
joe thinks hard before he answers , maybe after schools over .
let me talk to my mother and father .
bob tom interrupts with a roar , and for a second time , the dabbling buffleheads have to scatter .
mother .
father .
parents .
damall , noby , aint you got any folks ?
no mom or dad or a ma or pa ?
jeezuz crikey .
were not exactly on a first name basis in my family .
but , let me talk to myfolksmaybe i could hang out with you for another week , then fledge and get back to school a few days late .
the surprise on bob toms face , and whatever feelings are triggering it , causes him to turn away and cough a couple of times .
damall , im so used to breathin pure , this here city airs got me goin .
joe is surprised when his screen tells him that prissis mypod is off grid , but he is stunned when he calls nancy sloan to track down prissi and hears about what has happened .
he drops to his knees as he listens to nancy say that prissi thinks his grandfather and jack are responsible for the death of her father and the attacks on prissi herself .
when nancy finally stops talking , it takes joe almost a minute before he can gather himself enough to ask nancy where she thinks prissi might be .
nancy says that she doesnt know , doesnt want to know , but that she does want joe to talk to his family and make sure that they know that the sloans are innocent and have had nothing to do with anything .
when joe fills bob tom in on the details of what he has already surmised from listening to one side of the conversation , the riverman says , i guess were gon na go on that walk about anyway .
what can we do ?
do ?
well , damall , noby , were gon na find this here prissi .
she aint , is she ?
i sorely dislike prissy .
if a woman aint got what it takes to worm a hook or gut a buck , what good is she ?
joe tries to allay bob toms fears with some of prissis exploits .
well sounds like shes got gumption .
but gumption aint always enough , though itll take ya pretty far .
we better get goin .
and do what ?
noby , what do you expect the best hunter , trapper and tracker youre ever gon na meet gon na do ?
were gon na find that girl and save her .
someones gon na regret this here cavalry just got called in .
saddle up , young'n .
times awastin .
south of albany , the hudson river valley opens up .
farms replace forests .
small villages sit high on rolling hills .
the most noticeable difference to joe is the rivers traffic .
hoverrafts carry passengers up and down the hudson from albany to new york .
dozens of ag barges , laden with the harvest of the areas famous mesclun and chard farms , make their way south to feed the millions of mouths in the new york newton screwton nexus .
as he tows joe south , bob tom yells out the sights like a tour director .
aqua farms holding acres upon acres of bags filled with fresh water oysters .
he tells joe not to miss the stationary barges that provided the platforms to grow cold water hydroponic lettuces .
joe takes some time to look at the changing scene along the riverbank , but most of his attention is directed to keeping the canoe out of trouble .
being in a hurry to rescue a girl he doesnt even know , bob tom is flying much faster than he had before .
the increased speed causes a surge as its bow which continually threatens to swamp the canoe .
as brown and green swells of water roll up the sides of the canoe , joe wonders how much longer the riverman can keep up the pace .
less than an hour later , joe gets his answer .
after ten minutes of jerks and sloughs as the old man tires , bob tom pulls out of the center of the river .
he slows his speed as he angles toward a tied up barge piled five meters high with pallets filled with badboard crates .
joe lands the canoe just down river from the barge .
the boy notices the riverman staggers when he lands .
when he looks at bob toms face , joe is surprised at how florid it is .
purple veins bulge from the old mans forehead like a low mountain range .
instantly , joe feels guilty about how hard the damall man is working for him and fearful of the toll that effort might be taking .
while the runaway ties up , bob tom tromps off toward the gangplank and crane where a handful of workers are darting back and forth .
less than ten minutes later , bob tom flopes his way through back toward joe .
hop lively , noby , we got us a ride .
when joe looks back at the canoe , bob tom shakes his head , forget that old thing .
shes hardly sea worthy .
and i never liked her anyway cuz she was stolen .
theres plenty of boats worth stealin , but any boat worth takin aint all that easy to steal and this here boat come awful easy .
cmon , shake a leg .
were on easy street .
the adventurers havent been on the barge for more than twenty minutes before a tug , towing three barges behind it , sweeps in and grabs them .
within ten minutes , they are floating down the middle of the river .
within an hour after they begin their ride , the riverman is antsy .
he paces around the deck of the barge testing lines and strapping to see if they meet his standards .
when that job is done , he assembles his pole and starts casting into the river even though , as he tells joe , the wake of the convoy is bound to scare off anything smarter than a flat worm .
after a quarter hour of fishing , a disgusted bob tom puts his pole in its case and flies off to the tug to talk to the captain .
joe takes advantage of the respite to think about what nancy has told him .
he can imagine his grandfather or even his uncle taking some gray area actions , but certainly not murder , to get something they wanted .
the same is true for jack .
joe has thought his cousin was a sleek wheedly ever since he can remember .
but , that is a far cry from doing anything to harm prissi .
joe knows his family cant be involved .
he knows it .
but .
joe isnt sure what the but is , but something keeps his fingers off the mypod screen .
instead of k necting with his parents or uncle or cousin , joe sits atop a mesa of mesclun crates and thinks about how , or if , he might be able to find and help prissi .
chapter twenty six down and dirty despite the disasters of the day before , the sun had been up an hour before prissi langues gray green eyes , as secure behind their lids as her arms tucked beneath the worn , mothballed blankets , took notice .
even after her raggedy lashed lids flickered , it was a long moment before the mind behind them was willing to stir .
as she became conscious , prissis first complete thought was of gregor samsa .
his metamorphosis had been a fiction , a conceit by kafka , but hers was real .
even with her eyes closed , she could tell that her weight had tripled overnight and half her brain cells had died .
too big to fly .
too dumb to care .
carpe diem ?
no .
please , no .
in a way that took her back to a memories of floating in a muddy african watering hole , prissi relaxed deep into the musty smelling mattress .
the drone of insects , the haze of humidity and dust , the inertial force of an equatorial sun .
paralyzed in paradise .
the reverie was broken when a growl , like a madmetal guitar riff , heralded prissis hunger .
a groan of mental protest surpassed her bellys growl before she surrendered her torpidity to the next chapter of her fate .
she scootched her belly at an angle until her legs dropped over the edge of the bed .
however , once there , she lost courage and , rather than standing , the fifteen year old flared her wings enough so that she could kneel on the floor , where she stayed until the tears welling against her lids receded .
when she finally was upright , prissi was as wobbly as if she was standing was for the very first time .
seconds later , like a precocious baby , the slight , oval faced , almond eyed , mousy haired girl took her first steps .
as she went downstairs to scrounge the kitchen , prissi admonished herself not to give up .
today had to be better .
after looking through the refrigerator , the famished teener had regrets about how cavalierly she had cremated the contents of the freezer the night before searching for a clue to why her father had been murdered and her life was in danger .
it wasnt that the refrigerator held no food it just was difficult to determine the phyla and genera of what was in the various little containers .
snapping open a couple of lids to see and smell , prissi , while willing to concede that the contents might be edible , was hard pressed to say what they might be .
the idea of flying with a case of diarrhea overcame her normal sense of culinary adventure .
four wheat a bix and water and a small bite of something she was almost positive was cheese , or , at least , a cousin to cheese , ended the stomach rumbling .
in an act , which she couldnt decide was charitable or cruel , prissi opened several of the refrigerator containers and left them on the back stoop for the worlds scraggliest cat .
minutes later , after brushing her teeth with her fingers and salt and after a long tense moment of not crying , prissi was in the air and flying east across new jersey toward the hudson river .
as soon as she was high enough to allow it , prissi made herself do a double barrel roll .
the physical exuberance wasnt matched by anything emotional , but she felt better about being able to make a long flight after having tested her suspect wing joint .
what to do first ?
get money from burgeys bank accounts and use it to make an escape ?
tell the manhattan hawks what was happeneing and let them find her enemies ?
confront baudgew , the elfin man who made her skin crawl ?
prissi was pretty sure that the numbers besides the pin number she had found hidden in burgeys spinach were coordinates .
although she had only been in noramica for three years and had only been flying for less than a year , prissi was pretty sure the coordinates pinpointed some place out on long island .
given her recent bad luck , prissi guessed that wherever burgey wanted her to go was probably deep in the trackless forest beyond the pale .
she knew that if she keyed the coordinates into her mypod , it would only take a split second for a map to display her destination .
however , the worried teener was afraid to do that .
despite the cautions she had taken after escaping the blue jays who had killed her father , prissi wasnt positive that she was off the grid .
the man in spicetown had assured her that the mypod she bought from him could not be tracked , but , after the events of the last few days , trusting anyone seemed impossible .
prissi wondered what could be out on long island .
as far as the recent immigrant knew , most of western long island was sparsely populated and the entire eastern end was totally uninhabited and had been since the fires in 20something2047 ? ... 2048 , when the island had been burned as the unanticipated climax of the ticklish situation .
although prissi was somewhat reassured by the fact that the ridiculously vulnerable fortress she had constructed in burgeys upstairs bedroom had not been attacked during the night , she wasnt confident that changing her clothes and substituting mypods were enough to keep her in the shadows and safe .
it was those doubts about her safety which kept the fifteen year old from wanting to go back on the grid to do any research .
as an alternative , prissi considered how dangerous it might be to make a quick stop at nypd .
she thought that if she went to the nypd , she could look at a map of long island , use the coordinates to figure out the location , make a plan and , simultaneously , stay off the grid .
although there was a chance someone might be watching to see if a certain small , red and silver winged girl climbed the steps between the two worn lions , the nypd certainly had to be safer than going back to the gramercy park apartment to look through her fathers old atlas .
prissi closed her eyes and let the brisk march wind tug the tears from their edges .
old atlas or not , the idea of walking into their apartment , a place she never had liked , was too painful even to consider .
and there wasnt any compelling reason to go back .
her mothers cryptic notebook already was missing .
the things her father had taken from the apartment , except for his wallet , had been lost at the kaffeekiosk during the attack .
prissis wings skipped a beat as she realized that she had been assuming that those things were lost .
as she resumed her flapping , she considered what the chances might be that her assailants , caught up in the injuries they had sustained attacking her could have forgotten to collect the gear she and her father had taken with them .
after a moments consideration , prissi concluded that , even if those precious possessions were sitting in a heap in the back room of the kaffeekiosk , it was just too risky for her to go herselfsomeone could be thinking the same way she was .
but , she might be able to call to see ifno , calling might only forewarn her enemies .
but , prissi thought , maybe her friend jiffy apithy could go .
he might be willing to go check for herbut , if he went , he also might end up like her father , with a broken neck and eyes staring into a distance too far for prissi to understand .
prissi shook her head as if that physical movement might magically straighten out the conflicting thoughts going on inside it .
she didnt know what to do .
and , she was afraid to do another wrong thing .
in bound air traffic grew heavier the closer she got to the hudson .
prissi was making up her mind about going to the nypd when something suddenly darkened her vision .
someone shrieked a curse .
prissi threw the same phrase back so quickly it might have been an echo , except it was an octave higher .
even as her anger spiked , she realized it was she who was in the wrong .
she had been so absorbed in her thinking that she had drifted over into the outbound corridor .
the teener dropped a wing , swooped right and rejoined the stream of in bound travelers .
she scolded herself to focus on the flying .
if she didnt , there would be no need to think about the future .
before she was half way across the hudson , a second winger screamed and horned her because she was floating up into his flight line .
prissis heartbeat tripled and her blood pressure doubled .
she realized that if she couldnt get control over herself , she was more apt to be killed by her inattention and ineptitude than by any enemy .
again , she swore at herself to pay attention and concentrate on her flying .
but paying close attention to thousands of wings was equally nerve wracking .
in the year since she fledged , nothing gave prissi a greater sense of freedom than flying in an empty sky in fair weather .
but , few things felt more claustrophobic than flying in the middle of a dense flock .
even though she herself was the one who had made two mistakes in two minutes , as soon as she really started to focus on her flying , she became hyper conscious of all the possible ways the wingers around her could do something thoughtless , aggressive , or stupidall acts which could cause her to plummet into the riverr below .
not for the first time she pondered how meta mutationists had figured out how to give humans wings , but they hadnt figured out how to give them the group brains necessary to safely fly within a flock .
the chemicals that had blasted through prissis body from being horned didnt readily dissipate .
instead , as she approached the tangle of manhattan buildings before her , a skyline that reminded her of an old hyenas worn and broken teeth , prissis heart continued to pound so hard she thought it might tear itself into two .
her fingertips tingled and a cluster of black spots , like the black funeral balloons gay men released when a partner died , bobbled in front of her .
before her thoughts threw her into a full panic , prissi remembered to say the old mantra from her wing instructor fast wings .
slow breaths .
fast wings .
slow breaths .
fast wings .
slow breaths .
help me , dad .
help me , mom .
jay seuss christy .
help me , dad .
it may have been the brain cells freed up by slowing down that let the confused fugitive notice two wingers in the outbound lane .
she had not seen the faces of the wingers who had attacked her two nights before and started the nightmare she was trying to escape , but something about the orange feathered pair coming her way triggered a strong neural response .
she veered south and increased her wing beats .
she watched to see what response her evasions might have .
the pair kept their altitude and continued toward new jersey .
prissi increased her speed .
she turned her head back twice , but the orange wings kept beating their way west across the hudson .
deciding that she was paranoid , but nodding her head that she had every right to be so , prissi kept up her pace .
as thousands of wingers approached the manhattan shore , the discipline of the flock broke down .
a dozen flyers , and then twice that , mostly younger and all male , flying on the south side of the torrent suddenly cut sideways against the grain to head uptown .
the blare of horns and a babel of curses followed them .
both because she wasnt used to flying in rush hour and because she had left burgeys house with only the vaguest of plans , prissi slowed her speed .
she was less than a half klik from shore when she heard the squawk of horns coming from behind her .
craning her neck , she saw a flash of orange far back in the flock in the in bound lane .
a third blast of adrenaline exploded through prissi .
she instantly converted it to kinetic energy .
fight or flight ?
after the events of the last couple of days , the answer definitely was flight .
prissi pounded her wings so hard she began to rise .
in the fog of fear , it took her a second before she realized that rising up would make it easier for her pursuers to follow her .
she pitched back down into the thick of the flock where it would be the harder for her enemies to spot her .
despite feeling her blood sugar starting to drop , prissi sped over the freighters docked at their piers along the edge of the river , flew two blocks further onto the island , and made a tight pinion rattling turn south onto eleventh avenue .
she flew for just a block before heading back west .
she canted her wings and nailed a one hop landing just shy of the edge of the building at the end of the block .
moving forward , she peeked around the corner just in time to see the duo of orange wingers cross onto manhattan .
prissi leaned against the building to catch her breath .
she was wondering how they could have known she would be crossing over from new jersey .
she had gotten rid of her old clothes and her mypod .
she was thinking about other ways to track her , like her i tag , when a peripheral splotch of color informed her that the pair of orange wings was sweeping around the corner .
prissi leapt , launched and flew north , but a half second later she realized that if she were to escape her assailants it would be from her wits and darting ability and not from the speed of her wings .
she dropped a wing and cut sharply left toward the hulking superstructure of a liberian freighter .
when she snapped her head around , her attackers were less than twenty meters behind her .
prissi flew directly over the narrow gap between the freighters scabby hull and the edge of the pier , drew up her knees , folded her wings and cannon balled toward the black opening .
she passed through the narrow gap with just a scrape to a leg .
just before she plunged into the hudsons oily gray water , prissi snapped her wings half open and tattooed a humming bird beat .
even though she was forced to trim her wing span so that she could fit in the narrow span between hull and pier , her rapid stroke was powerful enough to keep her aloft for the seconds it took for her to reconnoiter where she was and what she had to do .
flying along the flaking hull of the ship back toward the river , prissi studied the width of the openings between the pilings supporting the pier .
she thought that she might be able to dart between them .
the problem wouldnt be getting between the spans , but rather making the necessary sharp u turn before she crashed into the hull of the next ship .
prissi heard muffled , metallic shouting .
she had guessed right .
her attackers wingspans were too wide to allow them to follow her between hull and quay .
she sped the length of the freighter , swept under the curve of the stern and pounded her way back toward the wharf .
at the bow end of the second ship , she lowered her remiges to slow her speed before dropping her left wing and smacking sideways into the end of the pier .
like an exhausted bat , prissi hung onto the slimy wall .
after a dozen deep breaths , she dropped almost to the water before she flared and flew under the bow of the next ship .
continuing her zigzag , the flagging teener headed back toward the river .
as she swept around the hull of the third ship , she caught a glimpse of a pair of orange wings patrolling above the hudson .
she assumed that the other winger was flying a quay side reconnaissance pattern .
she considered keying her replacement mypod with the emergency code to bring the hawks , but , she wasnt ready to compromise its signal .
with yesterdays blue jay attackers , who had killed her father , and todays orange wingers , it was obvious that her enemy , who she thought had to be joshua fflowers , had plenty of people to keep chasing her despite anything the police might do .
plus , since she didnt know what secret she had other than it must be linked to the two fractured crystals hanging around her neck , prissi had no idea what she would tell any hawk that would be any different from what she told the ones who had interviewed her at the hospital after the first attack .
she thought a better plan was , first , to get herself out of the jam she was in , and , then , find out how she was being tracked .
that was what she thought , but her body was having a different idea from her mind .
the nearly spent winger was drawing her breaths in great gulps .
she had been using her energy up too fast by flying with less than her full wingspan .
given how she felt , prissi guessed that she might only be able to keep up what she was doing only for a couple of minutes more , and , even that depended on her shoulder not betraying her again .
with semi spread wings , she was putting enormous strain on the same joint that has dislocated itself three times in the last week .
to get some distance from her growing fatigue , prissi told herself that what she was doing was just a game .
like 3d frz b .
just another air borne game .
to win , she just needed to come up with the right strategy .
as she rounded a fourth ship , prissi thought there might be a solution .
for it to work , however , she had to get herself to the 39th street ferry terminal .
to distract herself from her dwindling energy , prissi counted wing flaps to the accompaniment of an old african counting song .
as she got closer to the terminal , she tried to guess what her pursuers might do .
she thought that the one now flying over the river might move closer to shore to seal off any chance of her escaping back into the city .
prissi curved around the gleaming hull of an enormous chinese ship and pounded her way toward the swirling gray of the hudson .
as soon as she passed the stern , she banked her wings and flew south just a couple of meters above the water .
she thought that she must have guessed right because she saw no orange .
prissi was hoping that there would be a ferry close to departing for the jersey shore or one just coming in to berth .
her plan was to fly on board and let the crowd keep her safe , but looking to the south , she could see that her plan was flawed .
the two ferry boats in port were empty having already disembarked their cargo of walkers and injured , obese , or old wingers .
looking west , prissi could see two more ferries coming from the jersey shore , but neither was past mid river .
prissi dropped her primaries and rose in the air up so that she could see what other options she might have , but before she had climbed ten meters , two patches of orange were streaking toward her .
prissi smashed the air with her wings as she dashed south .
three blocks away , a small freighter , colored mostly in patches of rust and a few flakes of green , flying the orange , white and green stripes of cote divoire , was making a slow turn into a berth .
when she looked behind her , prissi could see the orange wings were flying from two angles so that they could pinch her .
responding exactly as if she were in a game of 3d frz b , prissi let them close , then , at the very last moment , she darted right , then left , then right again before she threw her wings back and floated up out of their reach .
her pursuers snapped half rolls and came at her from the front .
this time she folded her wings , cannonballed , pulled out just above the river and began climbing as fast as she could .
despite their bigger wings , in general , men , with their more heavily muscled bodies , could not climb as fast as women .
prissi rose until she was sixty meters in the air .
looking forward , she could see that the freighter was just over a block away .
as she bee lined toward the ship , she shrieked and pummeled the button on her flight horn .
thinking that prissi was welcoming them to noramica , some of the sailors clustered on the deck of the battered ship began waving back at her .
a quick backward glance let prissi know that , despite her maneuvers , the orange wingers were right behind her .
from playing fly games with the boys at dutton , prissi knew that while a males bulk might slowehis climbs , it helped his dives .
it was obvious to prissi that unless she changed her tactics she was going to be caught before she made it to the tankers deck .
calling on the last of her reserves , the teener snapped her head down and her butt up as she collapsed her wings .
two thirds of the way through a barrel roll , she flared her wings , ignored the fire that erupted in her right shoulder and came up behind her attackers .
she beat her wings , corrected her path and picked the assailant to the right .
she accelerated until she was just behind him .
just as she passed over , she pulled her wings tight , bent her knees , and snapped her legs into his left side wing joint .
he made a sound like a cheap seat cushion when a fat man sits before falling toward the water .
his partner took a split second deciding which target to pursue before following his partner down .
prissi looked toward onto the freighter deck and its mystified crew .
seeing that they were bewildered at what they had seen , she shrieked again and let her right wing drag .
gravity took hold even as her body slipped sideways through the air .
she gave her audience more horn and more screams .
the sailors , realizing she was injured , began yelling back to her and running along the deck to where they estimated she might crash .
prissi fluttered her left wing just enough to correct her course and closed the vents on her primaries to give herself as much drag as possible .
thinking it would help her cause , prissi continued shrieking , dropped her wing even further , slipped sideways again to slow her speed , skimmed just over railing and did a stumbling three hop landing .
whimpering , prissi staggered forward with a limp wing in a bravura performance that would have shamed a killdeer .
feeling the crew pressing forward , prissi raised her eyes and looked into the darkest crowd of faces she had seen since leaving burundi .
she winced .
she groaned .
she stumbled .
she limped .
the crew first moved back , then , moved forward two steps , and , finally , halted .
just as prissi was widening her grateful smile and deciding on her next move , she noticed the focal point of the eyes of the crowd shift from her to something behind her .
as she turned her head , her two assailants landed .
without hesitation , they began shouting , stop !
stop her !
she stole our money .
hands from the crowd began reaching out toward prissi .
caught between the crew and her orange enemies , prissi fought off the urge to fly away .
she started to say something in english before catching herself as she remembered the ships flag .
maide , sil vous plait !
the words exploded out of her like buckshot , propelled by the force of her lossesher mother , her father , and , suddenly , and totally unexpectedly , africa .
despite the danger she was in , prissi leaned forward to recapture the warmth and smells of africa coming from the clutch of crew before her coconut , groundnut , mwambe beef , harissa , sweat .
a two meter tall woman with a pocked face and grease stained hands stepped toward prissi .
from behind , a wingers hand reached out .
hey , shes a thief .
you saw what she did .
hes hurt .
prissi felt a hard hand grab the arc bone of her wing .
the woman sailor stepped around prissi and put her hand on top of the wingers hand .
she began speaking rapidly , but the thug just shook his head in incomprehension .
still holding tight to prissi , he took a step back .
prissi leaned forward to break his grip .
the imposing woman barked something in a language prissi thought might be daho doo .
a half dozen of the womans shipmates stepped forward to confront the wingers .
not liking the odds , the man holding onto prissi released her with a hard slap to her shoulder .
later , friend , later .
seconds later , the wingers were in the air flying north and prissi was fighting the kind of exhaustion that made her want to slide down on the sun warmed rusty steel deck to take a nap .
instead , she forced herself to make friends of her rescuers .
just before customs came on board to check for contraband and lock ix monitors on their ankles so that the crew could go ashore , a hyper alert prissi fluttered off the tanker and onto the quay .
as she waited out of sight while customs did its duty , she developed her plan .
as soon as the agents had flown off , prissi went back on board .
being africans , no one in the crew had wings , and no one had a mypod however after asking around , she was directed to a junior officer who had a sat phone .
she used the ancient relic to call the ex lam market and was overwhelmed with relief and gratitude when she heard jiffy apithys voice answer .
when jiffy was hesitant to do as she askedeither from fear or because he was still angry with her from what he thought was a racist remark she had madeprissi offered him the key code to her apartment .
since she didnt see how she would ever be able to go back , she told him that he could take what he wanted .
prissi read his hesitation before agreeing as embarrassment that his cooperation had to be bought .
an hour after nightfall , the tall woman who had befriended prissi , whose name she had learned was safiatou , and three other sailors waited until a dilapidated hack , painted a blackish green color that reminded prissi of an overly ripe avocado , slalomed up and hovered ten centimeters above the battered asphalt .
prissi ran down the gangplank sandwiched between two pairs of her new friends .
when they got to the cab , the africans yanked open the back doors and piled in but prissi took an extra moment to keep from damaging her wings as she got in the front .
the hack accelerated away from the quay like a newly commissioned ambulance drive and sped down 9th avenue .
at 21st street , the cabbie , whipping around the corner , split a handholding couple like an unstable atom , running to the opposite sides of the street .
when the cab crossed 7th avenue , prissi yelled .
the driver slammed on the brakes .
prissi shoved money at the sailors , salaamed them , and ejected herself from the cab into the writhing smoke rising from the front of the moldering cab .
prissi hopped twice then began beating her wings .
as she flew past the ez lam market , jiffy apithy came running out .
just east of 5th avenue , prissi landed .
a second later , breathing heavily , jiffy caught up .
he grabbed her hand and they ran another half block before darting down a narrow opening .
a dozen steps down the alley , a tall shadow loomed out of even deeper darkness .
prissi heard the sound of grating metal .
the sound was so similar to yesterdays noises when she and jack , hiding beneath a liquor store bulk head , had been attacked by the blue jay wingers , that prissi involuntarily pulled back .
jiffy yanked her forward , then dropped her hand as he slapped skin with the shadowan all black apparition except for a double row of perfect white teeth .
the trio hurried down a set of steps into a basement dimly lighted by a lumenaid .
they hurried across a dank empty space .
through a door , through a room , through a door , darker , into a third room .
a roughly framed hatch in the floor was pulled and held open by their faceless helper .
jiffy went first .
prissi , suddenly claustrophobic , forced herself to follow .
down a rickety ladder into molasses black spider web riven air .
into a space so constrained prissi caught and snapped the tips of some of her feathers .
after the third time a wing caught , prissi swore and , finally , jiffy spoke .
we dont get many wingers .
down another ladder .
swaying over nothingness .
to a landing no bigger than a hotel towel .
and then , a short walk along a tunnel shored up with salvaged bits of metal and wood .
the air was hot , still , stale , and , so devoid of oxygen that prissis chest began to heave .
the weight of the earth above her and the buildings above that bent her shoulders .
however , despite her worry that she might suffocate , or be crushed , some part of prissi , a big part she suddenly realized , felt much safer .
there was no way that the men could follow her down the torturous route of her escape .
another ladder , this one both rickety and missing rungs , and , finally , prissis feet touched down on the smooth concrete of an abandoned subway line .
as the globally warmed waters around manhattan had risen , as the island of manhattan city began to fade and lose businesses and population , as the proportion of wingers increased , as the expense of keeping the subway tunnels and tracks in some kind of repair soared , as the avenues and streets of the island became less congested after the banning of private cars , station after station of new york citys underground transportation had been mothballed and abandoned .
most of the system in lower manhattan had been closed down and boarded up and abandonedexcept for the kinds of travelers and residents who couldnt , because of poverty , insanity , lack of proper credentials or a conflict with those responsible for public safety , live above ground .
as they walked above the old subway tracks , now submerged under a meter of pus colored water , jiffy told prissi that he was hoping to find his friend , benny .
benny , the youngest son of a family from jiffys fathers malawi village , had snuck into the noramican paradise by jumping off as ship as it was moving up the hudson for a night berthing .
after swimming to the unpatrolled new jersey shore , benny had made his way back to manhattan on a ferry .
after resisting and escaping a hawk who had questioned him about his v za status , benny had gone underground .
he had been living in the subway for five months .
jiffy said that his friend was caught in the same snare that held so many other aliens .
he needed money to pay for forged papers and id chips , but it was difficult to make much money when one was living mostly underground .
benny hadnt been into the ez lam for almost two weeks , but the last time he had surfaced , the refugee had told jiffy that he was camping with a group of ten other african illegals , south of the union square station .
he was desperate to get above ground .
it wasnt safe .
he and the people he was living with had been forced to travel in groups because of a wilding of thirty or more zies , all , apparently , either under or over medicated .
two of the africans benny had been living with had been assaulted and one had died from his injuries .
although jiffys information chilled prissi , she understood why her guide hadnt said anything about the dangers until they were right before them .
as they walked out of the feeble glow of the widely spaced phosphors into thick , still black space , the skin on prissis neck would prickle and her feathers would puff .
when they passed back into the sickly green glow , her physical symptoms would abate .
when she whispered to jiffy what was happening to her , he giggled nervously and told her that if they were going to have a problem , it would be very , very obvious .
zies were not known for the subtlety of their behavior .
prissi came to understand what jiffy meant when , after walking along a narrow section of concrete where her feathers scraped the oozing side of the tunnel , they heard shouts and screams , arguing and laughter .
coming around a curve , the tunnel opened up into the large , better lighted space of what once had been the astor place station .
on the wrong side of the tracks , that is , on their side , was a subterranean village .
hovels constructed of both badboard and goodboard hugged the tunnel wall .
two dozen chairseverything from a webbed beach chairs and mangy loungers to a worn red velvet banquettewere surrounding a large fire pit holding a small fire .
less than half of the chairs were occupied however most of the others , though empty , had clusters of people hovering close to them .
from the cacophony of words and noises coming from the villagers , prissi assumed that this was the wilding of zies jiffys friend had warned him about .
as prissi and jiffy edged further into the light , the sounds of the villagers grew louder and more agitated until the air was torn by a sound like the howl of a rabid dingo .
immediately the villagers grew still .
the source of the howl , an impossible being , a being which looked to be made from two sets of parts , beat his , her , its fists in the air with glee .
above was a tiny head that was all anglesrazor sharp cheekbones and a long chin that came to sharp point .
long , licorice twist arms with pencil length fingers extended out , messiah like , from a cadaverous chest .
below the pinched waist was a butt as big as a loveseat and thighs , which if they had been haunches of beef , would have fed a community barbeque .
guests , everyone , guests .
even a grill baby .
best behavior , all .
the being rolled forward in a way that reminded prissi of an old fashioned upright vacuum sweeper .
from the high pitch of the voice , prissi thought the speaker might be a woman .
jiffy started forward .
prissi grabbed his shirt .
wait .
prissi stepped in front of jiffy as the villagers , moving forward in a single group like a glob of bacteria , began to sing in a dozen different keys , we welcome you today .
we welcome you to play .
we see .
we say .
suddenly and with the eerie simultaneity off a bacteria quorum language command being followed , the group surged forward .
we hope you like to pray .
immediately , prissi spun and shoved jiffy toward the edge of the platform .
jump .
i cant .
prissi knocked jiffy off the platform into the curry of water .
a half second later , hands grabbed at her .
she felt feathers being torn from her wings as she pushed herself off the platform and began flapping .
her right wing wouldnt move because one of the zies , with a pie crust pale and featureless face surrounding a pair of over electrified eyes , was holding on .
she beat her left wing , but instead of going up , she started tipping head first into the poisonous canal .
prissi screamed , header .
jiffy looked up , then , as he spread his feet , prissi used her right leg to kick herself free from the pie faced crazie .
she stretched her left leg forward , stepped on jiffys head and launched herself into the air .
as prissi flew across the subway stream to the platform on the other side , the zies ran back to the center of their village .
they grabbed bottles and rocks and metal poles and headed back to attack jiffy .
run .
the boys twiggy legs began thrashing through the water .
prissi made a sweeping turn back toward the end of the station platform from where they had emerged seconds before .
as she neared the tunnel entrance , she made a sharp turn and began flying back as fast as she could .
looking ahead she saw the zies at the edge of the platform easily keeping pace with jiffys churning efforts to escape .
as prissi watched , her friend was hit in the back with a bottle , prodded with a pole and hit in the head with a rock .
he fell forward and his head disappeared under the water .
prissy shouted his name .
he struggled up .
she screamed , grab me .
at the last moment , coming up behind him , prissi swept past jiffy with one of her legs passing over each of his shoulders .
he grabbed her ankles .
she pounded her wings harder than she ever had in her life .
jiffy was pulled forward in the water like a giant lure .
a bottle bounced off the teeners right wing .
despite the pain it left , she kept up her efforts .
at the far end of the station platform , prissi flew into the murky tunnel .
behind her she heard the zies cry , over !
over !
thirty meters inside the tunnel , prissi veered toward the steel rails which separated the narrow walkway from the sludgy canal .
she dropped her right wing and slammed against the rail .
holding onto the rail with one hand , she reached down for jiffy with the other .
coughing and crying , her bleeding friend painfully pulled himself from the water and slipped a leg over the railing .
as soon as his second leg was over , prissi stretched her head away from her body and added the contents of her stomach into the muck flowing along .
when she was finished , in between huge breaths , she asked , can you run ?
like the sirocco .
hearing feet pounding on the concrete , prissi looked back to see a silhouetted swarm of zies coming down both sides of the subway tunnel .
go .
find your friends .
ill try to amuse them .
jiffy looked forward to safety and back to the threat running down the tunnel .
how ?
prissi shoved jiffy , charm .
you know , my forte .
go !
running , but in an ungainly way that favored his injuries , jiffy disappeared into the murk .
as soon as she couldnt see him , prissi spun herself off the railing and began flapping back toward the zies .
seeing her approach , the demented gangs cries grew louder and shriller .
they prepared their weapons as prissi herself prepared to fly past them .
some of the adhd ites , too excited to contain themselves , threw their rocks and bottles too early .
those missiles prissi easily dodged except for a hefty rock , which she caught like a soccer ball .
the leader and several others had climbed over the railing so that they would have a better chance of stabbing prissi with their poles .
a couple of meters shy of entering the gauntlet , prissi flung the rock at the narrow sweaty wedge of the leaders head .
the creatures ice pick point pupils doubled in size and intensity just before the rock landed , then , when the missile connected , winked out .
the being dropped to its knees like a pole axed steer , staggered , let mgo of the railing and tumbled off the platform into the water .
as prissi swept past , she grabbed the pole from the things fist , canted her wings and skimmed along the roof of the tunnel .
twice her legs were cudgeled by a zies pole , but not with enough force to bring her down more than a half meter .
the enraged teener flew through the screaming gauntlet and passed out of the tunnel into the old station .
she aimed toward the zies camp .
as she swept over the campfire , she swung the leaders pole .
fiery brands flew into the badboard hovels .
by the time prissi made a wide sweeping turn at the far end of the station , the village was ablaze and the villagers streaming back out of the tunnel mouth were spewing sounds beyond anguish .
while most of the residents raced to their burning hovels , a handful , either from cunning or indecision , hovered restively by the tunnel entrance .
to avoid passing through their weapons a second time , prissi swept wide to the right , then flew alongside the wall at the south end of the station .
coming upon the remaining zies from the side , prissi used her pole to knock two more in the water .
as the drowning zies yawped for help , the hysterical winger executed an immelman turn and smashed another frothing zie across the shoulders before swerving into and fleeing back into the tunnel .
almost blinded by the bolts of adrenaline and epinephrine jolting across her vision , prissi sped down the inky tube .
as the dusky narrow space grew ever darker , the flashes dimmed and prissi felt safer .
slowing her pace , she sucked huge gouts of the damp fetid air into her lungs .
she touched the tips of her thumbs to the ends of her middle fingers in an attempt to slow her body chemistry .
prissis efforts might have worked given more time , but when the bleeding , enraged , hawk faced zie leader launched herself off the railing where she had been waiting for revenge , prissis body went berserk .
with screams , growls , and tears exploding from her , prissi began tearing at the hands locked around her calves .
she beat her wings as her nails shredded the skin on the zies hands .
even as the two combatants sank into the diseased water , her efforts had no effect on the insane womans grasp around prissis legs .
prissi thrashed forward even as she despaired that her wings were getting soaked .
losing her balance , the womans head slid under the water .
prissy shifted her weight backward to keep it there , but neither the womans hold nor her teeth , which she had embedded in prissis thigh , loosened until the zie had drowned .
a horrified prissi pushed herself away from the lifeless form , whose fat lower half already looked as if it were bloated from the drowning .
as the body slowly drifted away , the repulsed , quaking prissi clawed her way up the railing and onto the walkway .
her wings felt like they weighed a thousand kilos .
dripping goo thickened greasy water , sobbing , making sounds that were not words , prissi pulled herself along the tunnels gloom .
the teener was still sobbing when the subway opened up again for the bleecker street station .
she stood stunned in the shadows just inside the arched mouth , like a befuddled tourist in a national park cave .
as she worked to control the noises being wrenched from her throat , she scanned the space ahead .
prissi could see no village or enclave like with the zies , which was good .
but , there also was no sign of jiffy , or his friends either , which was not good .
instead , there were several lumps pressed close to the tile that might have been rubbish or humans or some combination of the two .
there were a dozen blind spots behind abandoned stairs and broken tiled columns where danger could be hidden .
prissi knew that she needed to be extremely cautious because it was a certainty that she had no fight left in her .
the events of the last days , one after another , the attacks , her fathers death , jack fflowers betrayal , the dead zie , had emptied her out .
her courage was long gone .
courage weak cousins , bravura and bravado , had followed behind .
her adrenals were empty .
too numb to fear , too tired to care , prissi knew that she couldnt surmount any more danger .
she could only avoid it .
she was too tired to run and her wings were too oily to fly , even if , by some miracle , her energy were to return .
she knew she had to find a haven with clean water , rags and alcohol to clean her feathers .
the overwhelmed prissi bleakly spread her wings and let herself slump against the slick damp wall as she considered the odds of finding what she needed .
chapter twenty seven as they sew , so shall she weep poppet .
prissi awoke .
given how crazed she had felt after her battle with the zies and the death of their leader , she was surprised that she had fallen asleep .
a fleshy , black and pink hand thrust a battered panera bakery pak in front of her face .
poppet .
did you order take out ?
at first , prissi couldnt get her mind around the question .
when she did understand , her insides sagged .
the zies had found her .
prissi tilted her head back to see an immense henna haired woman with a pendulous wattle , like a chocolate colored torque .
standing in her shadow was a silent bony faced wraith with hands that twitched at each other in a way that reminded prissi of a surreal punch and judy show .
take out ?
you order .
we deliver .
prissi shook her feverish head in despair .
are you sure ?
you look like a bonnet , which has lost its bee , or , being .
as you can see , the more you lose your b , the more you need a das in de livery .
the skinny woman reached out to touch prissis wings .
when the fat woman laughed , she made a sound like a flag flapping in the breeze and the flesh under her chin rose and subsided like a glassy sea .
yes , indeed , your livery is in need of delivery .
prissi recoiled when the bird like womans hand darted forth to poke at her stomach .
take away a y , and why , because your liver itself needs its chicken removed as well as its r , so you can live again and forget those zies .
at the mention of the zies , prissi thought of how their leader had died .
she groaned and reached toward the bite wound in her thigh .
when the fat womans hand snatched out with astonishing speed to catch hold of prissis wrist , she didnt resist .
dont touch it .
youll only make it worse .
come , poppet , well take you out of here and take you there .
the two women offered supporting arms to prissi as they started across the broad expanse of the underground station .
as they progressed , several of the lumps prissi had noticed earlier stirred .
eyes without faces stared from the bundles of rags as they passed by .
when one lump started to rise from its concrete bed , a slight wag of the fat womans index finger , as big as a boudin , suggested it reconsider .
it did .
after crossing the station and re entering the gloom , prissis two companions walked for hundreds of meters before stopping .
the farther they went , the less prissi had walked by herself and the more she had been supported by the two women .
prissis fever began to overwhelm her mind and she let herself drift until she heard a jingle , a jangle , a click and a door , nearly invisible in the gloom and blackened wall , opened inward .
the bird lady went first and the fat lady behind with prissi sandwiched between the uneven slices .
prissi was so exhausted and feverish that she was barely conscious of what was happening to her .
she finally did realize that she was being tended to , but in a way that was very different from the care she had received at columbia unitarian hospital .
some brightly burning part of her mind tried to understand the aches and pains that seemed to come from bruises and sprains that were being nursed .
those hurts all seemed to be part of a body that was not quite her own .
somehow those hurts reminded her of being tickled by nasty nancy through a mound of winter blankets .
there were scrapes , scratches and cuts .
there seemed to be dozens of those .
she was alert enough that she could locate oneit was on the right side of her jaw .
it announced itself as a warmthlike holding a potato not long from the oven .
then , there was the third thing .
it was a hole , a very deep black emptiness .
it had no feeling , but prissi could tell that it held the promise of exploding with pain .
it took prissi several moments to understand that the black hole was where the zie had bitten her .
prissi heard murmuring like the sound of mountain wind through grasses .
she felt a tugging at the black hole .
she thought she knew what that was and the thought horrified her .
a black and red swirl , like lava swelling from a volcano started forming at the edge of her closed eyes vision .
prissi squeezed her eyes even tighter to push the image away , but the lava oozed past where she was squeezing and began to fill the space behind her lids .
prissi bit hard on her lower lip to keep from screaming .
she was terrified at how excruciating the pain would be if she couldnt stop the flow of lava .
when it became obvious that pushing back would not stop the molten threat , she thought of other things , powerful things , that would keep the lava away .
her fingertips stretched to touch her fathers face , to pat his hair , to gently hold his feeble neck , his worthless neck .
there was more tugging as the caregivers beyond her lids tried to stitch the leg wound closed .
tugging and tugging to close the lava hole .
a sound that began lower than a growl and ended an octave higher than a shriek erupted from prissi .
yell , poppet , yell .
it wont seal the wound , but it may heal the wounded .
who did you dance with ?
that thief , the hyena ?
well , we have just the thing for hyenas , dont we , lavie la ?
as the fat woman talked , prissi unclenched her fists and let herself fly away from all that was happening , and all that had happened , to her .
chapter twenty eight been down , so long bob tom had fallen asleep as soon as the sun disappeared .
joe couldnt blame him .
after all , they had been up early in the morning so bob tom could tow joe the rest of the way to albany .
they had walked for miles to the train terminal , battled the bob n hobs , and made their way back to the river .
after that , bob tom had flown for kilometers after they headed downstream before hitchhiking a ride on the salad barges .
using the light of the moon , joe studied the old man .
the rough furrowed skin on the bob toms face reminded the boy of the naked faces of the adirondacks mountains themselves .
the eyebrows , a frowze of white and gray hairs of all lengths , if enlarged a hundred times , could have been mistaken for one of the animals bob tom hunted .
joe smiled as he thought of those two trophies hanging on the bare wood walls of a cabin alongside a bears head and a pair of moose antlers .
looking at the rivermans nose , a promontory of vein blasted flesh , joe didnt doubt that that mighty organ could smell scents more mortal noses would miss as its owner claimed .
as if it knew it was being considered , the nose quivered before making a sudden disturbance that resounded across the hudson .
joe scanned down bob toms tatterdemalion clothed , hull like chest to where his hands lightly held the bottle the captain had sent back with him after their visit .
as the nights air was broken by a second racketing snore , the hands , whose slender fingers and large joints made them look like they were assembled from tinker toys , tightened on the bottles neck .
joe reached over , slightly twisted the bottle until bob toms fingers loosened , and removed it from his hands .
joe held the bottle up to the silver moonlight and wasnt surprised to see that more than half its contents were gone .
before finding a safe place to stash the liquor , joe studied the bottle to see if he wanted to reconsider his decision to say no when bob tom had asked him if he wanted a celebratory drink .
the boy twisted the cap off , but after smelling the bottles contents , he decided that he would keep the pledge he had made at the beginning of hockey season .
with the bottle wedged between two crates of spicy smelling mesclun , joe came back to bob tom and lifted his legs so that his whole body was stretched out on the shelf they had made earlier by moving a half dozen crates around .
as joe velked the old mans themkin tighter to keep out the night air , the old mans mouth fell open in an unconscious yawn .
the sight of that gawp acted on joe like a nail in a tire .
all the pressure within him began leaking out .
he yawned , yawned again , struggled as he made himself a nest from a mound of coiled rope and within minutes of getting as himself comfortable as he guessed he could , despite all of the adventures of the day , was fast asleep .
even as he fought the hands that were holding him down , joe had the clarity to twist his head to see what bob tom was doing .
from what he could glimpse between his assailants arms , those three crew members were having a much easier time overpowering the riverman than the two who were trying to tie joe up as the teener kicked and thrashed , and used all of his hockey experience to get out of their clutches .
joe , since he was neither drunk nor drugged , might have succeeded , although what advantage that might have produced given that he was on a barge in the middle of the hudson river wasnt clear , if the other three crew members , after securing bob tom , hadnt joined their mates .
after the crew members bound their hands and feet with the same heavy plastic zip ties used to secure the crates to the barge and locked joe and bob tom in a well worn storage locker area in the bow end of the tugs hold , the old man immediately fell back into a deep sleep .
by flopping around on the floor of the hold and not worrying about the bruises his efforts were making , joe managed to work his way onto his knees .
from his kneeling position , despite the tight restraints around his crossed wrists , joe could reach bob toms hands .
leaning back on his heels , he tried to roust his friend by pulling on an arm , but when that appendage stretched like a water balloon in joes hand , he gave up on that tactic .
instead , he leaned forward , wedged his head under the rivermans fusty armpit and using all of his strength , managed to push bob tom upright , but as soon as joe removed his head , damall fell over like some hideously re imagined raggedy andy doll .
listening to bob toms stertorous snores , joe wondered if there was something else in the bottle besides the bourbon the old man had treated as if it were sacrament .
after one more effort to bring back bob tom to the living , an exhausted joe gave up on getting any help from his rescuer .
as the old man slept , the exhausted but sleepless joe laboriously crawled and wriggled around the hold looking for possible means of escape .
the steel lever handle on the lockers door moved a couple of centimeters , but no more .
a second unmovable door , one that seemed to lead to the tugs engine room , didnt have a handle on it .
after more than an hour of probing the locker and considering the collection of frayed lines , lubricants , a dilapidated generator , and foul weather gear without coming up with anything that felt like a practical plan , joe decided to followed bob toms example and go to sleep .
as he waited for his exhaustion to win out over his outrage at the cowardice of his captors attacking while he and bob tom slept , joe desultorily twisted his restraints until his wrists began to bleed .
what did the tugs crew plan to do with him ?
would they themselves try to ransom him or would they turn those dealings over to someone with a little more experience ?
would they try to keep joe and bob tom in the hold of the ship or would they decide that it would be safer to stash them someplace on land ?
if it was to be land , would they opt for someplace rural or would they carry their quarry all the way to manhattan or beyond ?
and the most interesting question of all , given that the victims had seen their faces , did the kidnappers have any intention at all of returning their captives even after a ransom had been paid ?
after asking his questions and getting no answers , joe finally fell into a short uneasy sleep .
joe had been watching shards and pinpricks of lights lasering around the storage hold for almost two hours before bob tom began to stir .
after he had awakened , joe had started by reconsidering his questions from the night before , however those thoughts were so formless that the boy soon abandoned them .
instead , his thoughts veered from escaping the hold , to fledging and flying , to prissi , to prissis lips when he kissed her , to fighting the hudson for his life , to the extraordinary way he had been rescued and what a debt he owed to bob tom , and back to prissi and the danger she must be in , to some vague time in the future when he and bob tom , and maybe , prissi would be flying above the adirondacks spying in the nests of eagles before landing and eating a meal with blesonus .
joe was so engrossed in his diversionary thoughts that it wasnt until bob tom groaned a third time that the boy recognized that his friend was awake .
shaking his bound hands at those above deck , bob tom exclaimed , et tu , brute or whatever yore damn name might be .
the old man brought his bound hands to his head and struck himself in the forehead .
noby one , my little friend , you done yourself a huge favor by passin on what i thought to be kentuckys finest .
bob tom hit himself a second time .
im afeered that they done me some permanent damage , noby .
my brain feels like it fell in a swift current and got battered around in the rocks .
although he was sympathetic , joe wasnt feeling patient .
he figured that bob tom must have had between four and five more hours of sleep than hed had and since the riverman had been drunk , he hadnt fought as hard and consequently hadnt been as bruised and banged up as joe himself .
when bob tom groaned and started to hit himself in the head a third time , joe asked , any chance of you taking a time out from your exercises to help me think how were going to get out of here ?
damalls bushy eyebrows bolted upward like a couple of mangy rabbits flushed from their warren .
after all i done for you and you talk to me this way .
im hurt , noby , bad hurt from what them pirates done to me , but im worse hurt from yore unkind , ungrateful and surely uncalled for words .
joe held out his hands , what are we going to do ?
if we dont do something soon , they might kill us .
bob tom grunted as he raised his shoulders from the deck of the hold and looked around before asking whered you get that idea ?
kilo for kilo , yore surely the most valuable piece of real estate in all of new york .
weve seen their faces .
as ugly a collection as ive had occasion to witness since , bob tom paused as if he couldnt think of what next to say .
despite their situation , joe smiled as he asked , since you was underground with a bunch of bristle lipped wimmin ?
my very thought , noby , despite it bein a while comin .
my very thought .
so what are we going to do ?
well , id say the furst thing were goin do is ask our hosts for some java , an ill drink yores so to help my pore head , an a half dozen eggs over easy an , mebbe , some bacon .
you like bacon , noby ?
bob tom did some yelling and he and joe did some exploring , but the day passed and no one answered their calls .
neither bacon nor eggs , not even coffee arrived .
not did any solution to their problems appear .
they used a broken pipe wrench they found to try to wedge under their plaston fetters and snap them , but the loops were drawn too tightly around their wrists to succeed .
bob tom talked about using the wrench and a couple of pieces of pipe they scavenvged to attack the kidnappers when they came below , but joe didnt see that plan as being very successful until their hands and feet were free .
the hours slowly passed , the light faded , and their hunger pains and thirst grew .
the engine , on the other side of the handle less bulkhead door , chugged along , but the only other sound the captives heard than the engine was the sloshing of the hudson against the steel hull .
joe was curled into as small a ball as possible trying both to keep warm and to keep his hunger from spreading beyond his belly , when he was startled from his sleep by bob toms anguished swearing .
may you burn in the stench of brimstone and feel yore spirit weighed down with a millstone .
what ?
whats wrong ?
whats wrong ?
ill tell you whats wrong .
weve been assaulted on .
captured .
mis used fearsomely .
but , l im not one to make a fuss about bein mis used .
since eden , its all mens fate .
but , noby , there must be limits .
what happened to me lessen four days ago , noby ?
what sorry fate came to pass ?
bob tom , with his hands held up in the air in anticipation , waited , and waited some more for joes answer .
when joe didnt respond , bob tom finally let his hands drop to his chest .
tarndamnation , noby .
what ignominy have i suffered ?
what near mortal loss ?
joe finally had an inspiration , your kayak ?
your favorite boat ?
yes , my most favorite boat is gone .
taken from me by fate ... with a punkin sized helping of help from you , as i recall .
and when that was taken , did i complain ?
no .
no , sir , i took ole fates medicine , a right bitter medicine , and swallered it down .
joes hands started to protest bob toms re telling of the story , but the riverman shook his head .
i wont put up with it .
i , damall , damwell wont .
bob tom paused and joe gave in and played his part , what ?
my pole .
my fly fishing pole .
not only my favorite fishin pole , but the best fishin pole on the whole hudson .
where is it ?
whos got it ?
i lost my favorite boat , but i will not , wont lose my favorite fishin pole .
no , sir .
i wont .
looking around at the shadows that lurked in the corners of the tugs hold as if some answers were to be found there , joe says , then , lets get it back .
bob tom concurs , good plan , before yawning .
seconds later , he is snoring , but it is hours before joe gets back to sleep .
the following day their captors opened the hatch and sent down an unimaginably bright column of sunlight as well as a five liter can of water and a tub of something that was more than soup but fells short of stew .
bob tom and joe waited until the tub cooled before alternating their hands into the pot .
when the pot is about half empty , bob tom wondered , you aint holdin back , are ya , noby .
lettin me have a little more just cause im biggern you and apt to be more haingry ?
joe laughs , i thought about it , but figured i shouldnt because im a growing boy .
feeling restored by the food , and with bob tom more than a day away from his hangover , the two captives spend their time crawling around the hold seeing if what they find can be turned into a means of escape .
joe follows the hunters advice to look at things sideways , not to try too hard to figure anything out , just let it come .
joe , who has been looking for things either sharp or hard enough to cut through their restraints , tries to take bob toms advice .
joe tells himself that he must have done a good job when he looks at a small battered sided lantern , flicks a switch , and gets an idea .
he wriggles around until he is facing bob tom , who is rummaging around in the dark , narrow , wedge of the bow .
look !
ive got an idea .
he wiggles the lantern .
bob tom turns around , an i can see its a bright idea , noby , but a bright idea is a far ways from a solution .
afraid that he wont have enough time , joe turns off the lantern and begins wriggling along to where he remembers seeing cans of motor lubricants and fluid .
once there , he picks up a can , reads the label , puts it back , picks up a second , reads that label , puts it back , reads a third and holding it tightly drags himself over to the pile of orange foul weather gear .
pulling a slicker free , he studies how to tear a pocket flap free .
with his hands bound one over the other , he cant use them to tear it off .
after a minute , he puts a corner of the flap in his mouth and bites down as he uses a hand to try to tear it free .
his effort fails .
he starts to ask bob tom for help , but decides to take a second to try to figure out another way to free the flap .
when nothing comes to him , he follows bob toms instructions to the letter and literally turns his head half way from the slicker .
after a minute he laughs and gives his full attention to the slicker .
using his forearms , joe spreads the slicker out on the lockers floor .
once that is done , he twists and turns until he can kneel on the shabby jacket .
he scoots around until he has one knee of on either side of a pocket before bending over , wedging a fist into the pocket and straightening up .
it takes more strength that he would have guessed , but the pockets side seams finally let go .
joe backs up , leans down and now using his forearms to secure the slicker , he bites the flap and pulls and twists , like a dog trying to win tear a rawhide bone from its owners grip .
by the time joe has the pocket torn free , bob tom has crawled over to see what he is doing .
iffen id knowed you were that haingry , noby , i wouldnt et so much myself .
joe laughs , im haingry for freedom , bob tom .
here , hold this .
joe brings his mouth close to the old mans hand and they transfer the pocket .
bob tom looks at the patch of waterproof fabric and asks , what now ?
when joe explains what he aims to do , bob tom just shakes his head , but within an hour , both captives have their hands and feet free .
as soon as the plastic on the binds on his feet burns through , joe extinguishes the torch which he has made by rolling up the patch of slicker , soaking it in engine oil and lighting it with a spark from the filament of the lantern bulb after its glass case has been broken .
when joe looks to bob tom for approval , the riverman gives it to him , but joes glow doesnt last long because bob tom says as he shakes his hands to get the blood circulating , having our hands free aint the same as bein free .
the old man looks around the rooms murk again before looking down at the pipe wrench which joe has used to hold the torch in place .
lets just think bout this a minute or two .
well , we better not think too long because if they find us with our hands free , were going to be in trouble .
bob tom shook his head dismissively , i aint afeered of a little trouble .
joes headshake at the rivermans words mirror bob toms own gesture .
after a minute bob tom makes his way to the lockers door , studies it , grabs the metal handle , tugs on it and grunts .
he walks over to the handle less door that goes to the engine room , studies it for a long moment and then puts his shoulder against it .
he shrugs , turns back , picks up the pipe wrench and walks over to the old generator pushed against the locker wall .
it only takes him a few minutes to pry the casing off .
it takes much longer to get the generators magnet free .
once he does , he slowly moves the magnet toward the pipe wrench .
the magnets pull is so strong than when it is still five centimeters away , the wrench begins to move .
when bob tom moves the magnet in a small arc , the wrench obediently follows a similar arc .
well , i guess we got us a ticket out of here , but a ticket dont mean much if we dont have a plan .
for the next hour , the captives think about what their course of action will be once they are freed from the locker .
once they figure out what they will do if things go as they hope and what theyll do if all hell breaks loose , bob tom and joe wait until the middle of the night .
when the time comes when they think it is most likely that all the crew will be asleep except for someone at the helm , they carry the magnet to the steel door that opens to the engine room .
being careful to make as little noise as possible , joe takes a sleeve he has torn from a slicker and holds it against the door where the handle would be if it had one .
the sleeve muffles the noise when the magnet pulls bob tom forward and attaches itself to the steel door .
before he begins to move the magnet , bob tom studies the door almost as if he can see the l shaped handle on the other side and the metal hook it fits into to secure it .
simultaneously pulling the magnet toward him to create as much slack in the handle on the other side of the door as possible , bob tom slowly moves the magnet in an arch .
joe has his ear to the door to listen for any sounds that the handle is turning .
he hears nothing and despite the sweep of the arc , the door remains locked .
bob tom shifts the magnet and tries again .
he moves the magnet four times but each try ends with the same results .
as the old man prepares for another attempt , joe whispers , wait .
when bob tom is not inclined to wait , joe grabs his arm .
wait .
he eases the old man to the side and then , using all of his strength , he begins to work the slicker sleeve from behind the magnet .
when it is finally free , joe steps aside and says , try it now .
that aint gon na make no damall difference .
try it .
bob tom does and joes ear picks up the hollow sound of metal turning against metal .
twenty seconds later the door is free and bob tom , holding the pipe wrench at his side as a weapon , eases himself through the door .
as they had hoped , the engine room is empty .
as they move through the small hot , machine filled room , joe picks up a ball peen hammer to arm himself .
above deck the two escapees stay in the shadows as they reconnoiter the deck of the tug .
joe finds a cache of flotation devices and carries them to the back of the tug where bob is working on releasing the hitch .
as joe ties the pfds together with a long coil of line , he watches until he understands how the coupler works .
as soon as he understands what bob tom is doing , joe grabs the pfds , jumps aboard the first barge and runs to the far end and begins to release that coupler .
he can feel the train of barges begin to change direction within seconds of bob tom setting them free .
joe waits until he sees bob tom fly over his head and land on the third barge .
joe frees the connection between the first and second barge and leaps onto the second .
the excited boy has barely scrambled five meters along the wall of lettuce crates when he hears bob toms anguished cry .
taint here .
taint here .
a second later , whoever is captaining the tug sounds the alarms .
joe hurries to the stern of the second barge and begins to free it from the third as lights blink on the tug and shadows begin to move across her deck .
as soon as joe and the pfds make the jump onto the last barge , the teener becomes cautious .
having heard his cry , the boy thinks that bob tom might have fallen into a trap by the kidnappers .
seconds later , joe is pleased to find the old man is alone .
alone , but agitated .
i caint find it .
their plan has been that in the confusion of having the cargo break free , bob tom and joe would hide on the back of the third barge as long as possible with the hope it might escape the current and make a run toward shore .
if that didnt look like it was going to happen , their back up plan was for bob tom to pull joe to shore while he rode atop the pfds .
as a spotlight beam locks onto them and shouts are heard from the tug , joe says , your fishing pole ?
forget it .
its probably on the tug .
im not leavin without my most favorite pole .
cmon , we have to go .
i aint goin til i get that pole .
them buzzards are goin be too busy with them barges to be fussin with us .
joe starts to push bob tom toward the stern of the barge and out of the spotlight .
cmon !
we have to go .
what do you think they think is more important ?
a bunch of lettuce or me ?
noby , i caint .
i got ta have that pole .
my only daughter gave me that pole .
when joe pushes the old man a second time , the old man pushes back .
feeling helpless to fix what he is beginning to understand is something that has become unhinged in the old mans mind and absolutely determined that he is not going to allow himself to be recaptured , joe pushes past the riverman .
the boy races to the stern of the barge , clambers up on the rail , and holding the coiled line in one hand and the half dozen pfds to his chest with the other , joe jumps into the hudson and back into the scariest moments of his life .
chapter twenty nine avenging angels prissi thought it might have been a minute , but , in actuality , it was two days later before she woke .
she returned as she had departed .
in the dream she was flying through clouds so dark and thick that they seemed to grab at her wings .
she was straining .
she could feel her muscles tiring .
she had to get below the clouds before she was so exhausted that her wings would falter and she would fall out of the sky .
after she tipped her wings and began to descend , she started looking for the bottom of the cloud cover .
lower and lower she flew , but , even though she could feel herself dropping , her altimeter read the same .
she angled her wings more .
she flapped harder .
the air was tearing at her hair as she hurtled downward .
her heart was pounding in her chest .
she knew she had to be close to crashing into the earth , but the clouds were just as thick and dark .
no , she realized , they were thicker .
her skin began to burn and she became aware that there were things in the clouds , sharp things , like the claws of small birds , that were tearing at her .
she was surrounded by a swarm of small orange birds .
they were raking her with their talons , but she couldnt tell if they were attacking her , or trying to slow her plunge .
prissi awoke to a damp cloth wiping her cheeks and forehead .
jiffy apithys eyes moved across her face at the same speed as the cloth he was using to cool her brow .
jiffy , prissi sighed in relief .
youre okay .
i was so sure something had happened to you .
something that would be my fault .
although his face was devoid of humor , prissi thought that she caught the slightest undertone of teasing as he said , im not okay .
look at this .
jiffy twisted his neck so that prissi could see the twelve centimeter square bandage on the back of his head .
is that from the rock ?
jiffy nodded , six stitches , although a real doctor might have used twice that .
id be angry , but i figure a big scar on my head might help my soccer game or , maybe , my reputation .
when prissi laughed , the noise sounded to her like a chicken trying to escape from a bag , any better and youd be the best .
that header you gave me saved my life .
maybe the first time .
yoli and lavie la saved you the second time .
i thought you were dead when they dragged you in and i hadnt even seen that thing on your leg , that bite .
when i did see it , i chucked .
can you imagine what was growing in that wound between the germs in that zies mouth and all the stuff that must be in the water ?
if they hadnt found you and brought you here , youd definitely be dead .
who are they ?
a mix , but mostly from darfur .
where are they ?
they waited as long as they could to see how you were doing , but they had to go to work .
youve been out for two days .
prissi was stunned .
two days ?
how can that be ?
quite a vacation .
prissi had a hard time comprehending how she could have gone somewhere for two days and not know it .
what had happened in that time ?
as soon as she asked herself that question , she knew it was the wrong one to ask .
the right question was , what hadnt happened ?
the first , and very reassuring answer to that , was that she hadnt been found .
are we really safe ?
am i safe ?
who is yoli and the other woman , the one who is so thin ?
jiffy grinned and when he did , his bright pink gums and blazingly white teeth lifted prissis spirits like some exotic tonic .
theyre friends of my friends .
someone from darfur found this place a couple of years ago .
its hard to know what it was .
maybe , a place to fix things .
like a machine shop .
or , a room where there was a lot of equipment .
its dark and the air isnt exactly enriched with oxygen , but none of us are walking around with headaches unable to remember our names .
the big lady , yoli , is a healer when she isnt hidden in the back of a togoan restaurant on west 46th chopping vegetables .
the skinny one is lavie .
shes sewing shirts down in mudtown for a street vender .
there are fourteen more of them living here .
some working .
some not .
its like a village .
some work .
some cook .
all share .
they pool money .
as soon as they have enough saved , they buy a set of ids for whoevers been here the longest .
then , when that person goes above , she has to send back twenty percent of her earnings until there is enough for the next set .
when that happens the first persons obligation is done .
two of the women down here , samosking and winnie , have their papers , but they havent left because they still have family below and they figure they can save money faster by staying down here .
youre safe , i think .
the zies took off after you burned their village and none of the stragglers have been seen down this way .
ive been back to the store twice to work my shifts .
my father says everything is quiet and i havent seen anything .
you probably can stay down here as long as you wantas long as youre willing to help .
with more edge to her voice than she intended , prissi said , im willing to help , but i dont know how long im willing to hide .
jiffy took the cloth away from prissis face and held it tightly in a fist .
what else can you do ?
if you go back up , how long will it be before your enemies find out ?
hours ?
a day ?
thats what i have to figure out .
someway they have been tracking me .
i got rid of everything i was wearing and threw my mypod away .
i thought that would do it , but they still found me .
im guessing that they must have found my i tag code .
how could they get the code ?
i thought it was so secret .
maybe it was in my dads stuff .
but , if it was in your dads stuff , how did they find you the night before ?
i dont know .
but what else can it be ?
when jiffy shook his head , it looked to prissi like a dandelion flower gone to seed blowing in the wind .
who knows ?
but , the important question is what can you do about it .
i have to shut it down .
how ?
i dont know , yet .
i dont even know where its implanted , so getting it out could be a little messy .
jiffys laugh was much deeper than his small body would have suggested .
hating the feeling of missing something that was supposed to be funny , something that happened too frequently at the dutton dining hall for a girl raised in a vidless life in africa , prissi had to work to keep an angry edge from her question , whats funny ?
anyone looking at youall of the bandages , stitches , cuts and bruiseswould think that someone already had gone to great efforts to find your tag .
begrudgingly , prissis laugh joined jiffys .
zeusus mimi .
i sure do hurt .
i dont even want to think of anyone poking and prodding at me anymore .
i wonder if there is some way to shut it off while its still inside me .
what do you think ?
jiffy shrugged .
i dont know .
my kind of people are looking to get to where were the kind of people who could afford an i tag .
prissi , again , got the feeling that jiffy was making her pay another installment on the debt she had accrued the night she had gone to the ez lam market for food for jack .
thinking of that night took prissi back to the fluttery feeling she had when first she was alone with jack in the basementand how that feeling had turned to revulsion as she watched him eat .
she recalled the long hug he had given her .
an embrace she had wished for before it happened , but soon wished it would end as it had dragged on .
wait .
youre right .
my troubles started before my dad was killed .
they started right after i saw jack .
jiffy , i think jack might have stuck a bug on me .
in my feathers .
do you think anyone down here would have a pinion or down comb ?
gee , miss scarlett , i shos hope so .
prissi , yours are the only feathers down here .
if you dont have a feather comb , no one else will .
but , if you could possibly make do with a fro pull , i think my people may be able to help .
jiffy left and came back a minute later with a carved wooden , wide toothed comb .
when he offered it to prissi , she had another spasm of guilt .
do you think you could do it ?
if i try , im going to miss a lot .
jiffy said , will our families approve ?
as he stood behind prissi and began to carefully comb through her pinions .
although prissi knew that jiffy was joking , she decided to counter the guilt jiffy was making her feel by throwing out some of her own .
since i no longer have a family , it wont be a problem on my side .
the movement of the comb paused for a moment but jiffy said nothing .
instead of feeling good that she had gotten back at her friend , prissi felt even guiltier that she had baited him .
but , she didnt apologize .
it was nothing more than a small snag in the down on the backside of her right wing .
as soon as jiffy found the bug , prissi could almost feel jacks arms around her , how he had hugged her tight while he insinuated the device that led to her fathers death .
while it was good that jiffy found the bug , it would have been better for prissi if the combing had continued until a second trk r , the one planted by dicky baudgew , had been discovered .
prissis first inclination when jiffy put the pea sized device in her hand was to release her rage at jacks betrayal upon it however a second later she thought she might be able to put it to a better use .
in the two days that it took to arrange the details of her plan , prissi courageously , but ultimately , unsuccessfully fought off yolis efforts to tend to her wounds .
on the morning of the third day , after telling jiffy goodbye and thanking him for his help , prissi followed three members of the village south along the subway tracks .
her accomplices , yoli , lavie , and a tall woman with rickety looking arms carried sticks , knives and a fifth world artifact made from first world materials .
south of prince street , the group left the subway .
for the next quarter hour , they followed a circuitous path to the surface that reminded prissi of the descent she had made five days before .
the only differences were that this time , as they ascended , the air felt too rich with oxygen and the unease came from the threat of leaving her underground haven for the danger of the surface , rather than vice versa .
prissi pulled herself up the last steps of a scarred ladder , which was attached inside an immense brick chimney , until she emerged into the gangrenous light of a second floor brownstone apartment .
she skirted close to the moldy window and looked down at the sluice of water idling along the street .
not knowing how much time they might have , prissi encouraged her friends to set the trap .
prissi made a nest for herself with an old hand woven tribal blanket in the corner of what once had been someones small street side living room .
after the teener was in place as bait , the africans set the trap and disappeared .
yoli wedged herself into a coat closet .
the rickety woman backed herself into the fireplace and descended the ladder until the only clue to her presence was a thick stick which emerged from the hole .
lavie folded herself into a small cupboard built under a set of bookcases , pulled her stick against the baseboard and pulled close the cupboard doors .
jiffy had doubted that prissis plan would work because he thought there was a good chance that when the trk r was submerged in the water in the subway that it might have been damaged .
prissi was sure that joshua fflowers would not have given jack anything less than the best , most reliable technology .
as she lay on the mossy floor , prissi tried to gauge how much healing her body had done .
she was sore .
muscles ached and there were a dozen places on her legs and arms where she could press a finger and feel the dull pulse of a deep bruise .
the bite was worse .
it throbbed as regularly as her heart beat except that it had spiked higher as she climbed the ladder .
as prissi had made her plans for revenge , she also had taken time to consider her escape .
she had to get to africa .
that was clear .
everyone who had helped herthe ships crew , jiffy , yoli and her friendswere africans .
the people who had attacked her and killed her father were not .
once she looked at it that way , it became simple .
she needed to hurt those who had hurt her , then , escape to the place from which her true friends came .
as she had tended the wound the zie had made in prissis calf , yoli had told her patient about the extraordinary efforts her people from darfur , refugees from a hundred years of war , had made to come to noramica .
yoli couldnt understand how anyone would want to go back to that benighted continent .
noramica , even looked at from two hundred meters below ground was a paradise compared to the fields of darfur field which were fertile with nothing but corpses .
prissi had heard what yoli had said , but it didnt change her mind that her chances of survival were much higher in africa than where she was .
even though prissi was in a state of high alert , she was caught off guard when yoli tapped the closet door with a fingernail in warning .
it wasnt until a minute later that she heard the slightest of rustlings .
a minute after that , a stair tread squeaked .
the door opened just a crack .
a moment later , however , it was thrown violently open and two blue jay wingers burst inside .
as her attackers , knives in hand , leapt into the room , prissi jumped up from the bundle of rags where she had been feigning sleep .
the men were less than a meter from their intended victim when they suddenly lost their balance .
the three hidden tribeswomen had begun to jerk and twist their sticks .
the fishnet , which they had woven from the finest fishing line , so fine that it was nearly invisible on the floor beneath the wingers feet , was attached to the sticks .
yoli , being the biggest , had kicked open the closet door and used her prodigious weight to yank the net toward her .
it was that first sudden movement of the net beneath their feet that caused the wings to totter .
a second jerk from the chimney and a third from lavie caused the two attackers first to tilt toward one another and touch shoulders , like tango partners , before crashing to the floor .
as soon as their quarry was down , the women rushed forward and tossed their sticks across one another to secure the net .
prissi slipped a noose around the neck of the trap .
when the noose was tight , the women freed their sticks .
when one of the wings began slashing at the net with his knife , yoli smashed him across the back of the neck with her stick .
he slumped .
to insure compliance , yoli hit him a second time and delivered a similar blow to his partner .
after lavie la had collected their knives , prissi came within a step of her captured enemies and began to shout questions .
who are you ?
why did you kill my father ?
why are you chasing me ?
who do you work for ?
when the wings were slow to answer , yoli prodded them with her staff .
when they still maintained their silence , all three of the women pummeled them with their weapons .
after another period of silence , unbroken except for harsh rasping breathing , yoli sat down on the net .
the men groaned beneath her weight .
yoli took the long slender wooden hook she had used to work on the net from a pocket of her skirt and put the first three centimeters of it into the nearer mans nose .
lavie put her hook in his ear .
prissi again asked why they were trying to kill her .
after five seconds of silence , the hooks went in another centimeter .
a bubble of bright red blood blew out of the mans nose when he struggled .
yoli settled her weight more comfortably .
when there still was no answer to prissis questions about who was after her and why , the hooks explored a little deeper prissi hesitated when she saw the stream of blood running from the mans ear .
her anger and primal urge for revenge began to drain from her as quickly as his blood flowed .
those feelings were replaced by feelings of horror at the cruelty of the africans acts .
the teen wavered between asking another question and calling off the interrogation when yoli said something under her breath .
the rickets woman sat down on the second winger as carelessly as if he were a tussock and put her hook in his left eye .
immediately , the answers began to come .
the information prissi got was not what she expected .
joshua fflowers was not involved .
jack and his father were , but joshua fflowers was not .
in addition , the two bleeding blue jay wingers had no knowledge of a pair of orange feathered wingers .
the triumphant but astonished girl and yoli had a brief conversation .
prissi handed her rescuer a scrap of paper .
after that exchange , the small girl hugged the huge woman and thanked her for everything she had done .
she hugged the rickets woman and lavie la .
after prissi left , yoli rendered both wingers unconscious by holding a rag , wetted with the contents of a small bottle she drew from her dress , to their noses .
she opened the net and the three women began plucking feathers from prissis enemies .
within an hour their wings were bare .
their job finished , the three africans collected their gear and descended back into their subfusc world .
chapter thirty waxwings and waning wings it was hard for prissi to leave yoli and lavie , but , it was even harder for her to leave the top step of the dilapidated building .
she had left the murk of the ancient brownstone and stepped into the brilliant sunlight of a spring day .
but , as prissi stood in that warming light , she looked at the deep shadows of the buildings across the street and shivered .
nothing above ground felt safe .
years before , prissi langue had spent a couple of afternoons in a soggy hemp hammock in africa listening to her mother read a story , a story her mother said had been a favorite of hers as a child , about a girl far , far from home .
the girl was lost , overwhelmed , and beset by worries and dangers .
squeezing her eyelids tight to keep back the tears , prissi did as the girl in the story had done .
she clicked her heels together and made a wish .
even with that potent magic , it was more than a minute before the fifteen year old found the courage to beat her wings and launch herself into the air .
within minutes the aching winger was leaving manhattan and flying across the east river .
prissi figured that even with no tail wind and with three rest breaks , she should be able to get to the place indicated by the coordinates the mysterious allen burgey had left for her before dark .
she hoped to find him safely there when she arrived and with answers to all her questions .
for the first hour , not sure whether she could trust her right wing , which had been dislocating even before her fight with the crazie , prissi flew no more than thirty meters above ground .
she followed the route of the long abandoned long island expressway as it crossed queens and dug deep into the moldering towns that lay beyond .
despite the serious doubts prissi had about her safety and her bodys capabilities , after a week of hiding and healing in an abandoned subway , it felt wonderful to be above ground .
the air was balmy and filled with spring perfumeslilac , mock orange and kudzu .
the wind was blowing out of the south west .
prissi dropped the front edges of her wings , drew up her legs and felt the soft breeze sneak past the cuff of her pants .
the sun beating on the back of her neck felt as sensuous as the heat massage a dutton school trainer would give her after she pulled a muscle .
however , despite her good feelings , prissi was not even out of queens before she began to feel tired .
the wounds she had suffered fighting off the zies were not yet healed .
she considered resting , but , she told herself that what she was feeling was the kind of fatigue that could be overcome if she just kept her wing beats and breathing regular .
in prissis first year at dutton , after the soccer season was over , she had opted to run winter cross country .
although she was used to running from her years playing soccer , she had never run competitively before .
it took daily practice and lots of advice from coach cardana for prissi to understand that her body had both limitations and limits and that she was not to confuse the two .
coach car repeatedly had lectured the team that limitations were a set of physical checkpoints and mental hurdles .
limitations were where a body , or , more often , a mind , wanted to quit .
limits were far beyond those points .
limits were where the body stopped , despite what the mind wanted .
the essence of cross country was running past limitations to find the limits .
prissis shoulders ached and her breathing was ragged , but she was sure that if she could accept those conditions , and keep flapping her wings and feeding her lungs , that her body had a lot left to give .
prissi was right .
ten minutes later , her compact body had metamorphosed into a machine .
with her mind clear and her spirits exhilarated , prissi increased her altitude .
afraid of giving the men who had killed her father any clue as to where she was going , prissi had kept her mypod turned off .
as a result of staying off the grid , it was just a guess that she was over four hundred meters in the air .
she was , however , high enough that when she looked down , she could see how automobile traffic once had surged in and drained out of manhattan .
the wider , relatively straight thoroughfares were in the middle of long island , where land was cheaper and more people could afford to live .
at the northern edge of the land the roads were narrow and sinuous , almost as if they were meant to shake off the poor as the rich made their way toward their waterfront homes on long island sound .
even though she knew that it would be costly both in terms of time and her reserves of energy , prissi could not resist the urge to keep climbing until she could see the water on both sidesthe lacy green of long island sound and the limitless gray of the atlantic oceanthat made the land below an island .
looking at the water to her north , prissi considered whether she should alter her course and go to cold spring harbor where , a half century before , her mother had worked at centsurety .
but , as she looked at the green paisley of coves and bays , she guessed that it could take hours , hours which she didnt have , to find the former meta mutational lab .
deciding that it made more sense to rendezvous with allen burgey , prissi turned her head back toward the east .
she would find burgey and insist that he tell her everything he knew about her mother and those long ago discoveries .
if , after all that , she still didnt understand what was going on , or couldnt come up with a plan to stop it , then she would give up on her quest and start figuring out how to get back to the safety of africa .
within seconds of thinking about africa and the comfort of its familiar dangers , prissi was fighting a stitch in her side .
she spread her wings so that she could glide while she massaged the burning coal of knotted muscle .
when the fire remained hot , she closed her eyes and slowed her breathing to the slightest sigh , then rhythmically kneaded , caressed , and kneaded again .
when the pain finally drifted away , like the long linger of summer thunder , and she opened her eyes prissi found that she had drifted uncomfortably close to the ground .
climbing back to a safe altitude , the teeners body soldiered along well enough and her mind was so occupied with splinters and shards of thoughts and ideas , that stopping didnt even enter her consciousness .
it wasnt until a charley horse in the arch of her right foot suddenly set her thrashing and screaming that the folly of ignoring her plan for regular rest became clear .
she slip slid through the air as the tips of her toes strained to touch the heel of her foot .
she pushed the ball of her right foot against the ankle bone of her left leg trying to break the muscle contraction , but the only result was that she plummeted fifty meters .
suffer !
but , fly !
her screams helped to re orient her .
she told herself that despite the excruciating pain , no one died from a charley horse , but they did die from falling out of the sky .
prissi moaned in pain and screamed in frustration that another body part , not just her wing , was conspiring against her .
she canted her wings and plummeted as fast as she could without totally losing control .
as she plunged back to earth , she searched for the best place to land .
it wasnt until she looked that she realized that she had been so lost in her thoughts that she had passed not only into an area of sparsely populated outer villages , but also that she had gotten away from the worn cracked snake of the expressway .
the houses swooping up to meet her were dilapidated .
the street they bordered was a narrow lane of crazed asphalt sprouting tussocks of weeds .
despite all the poverty and neglect , prissi consoled herself that she didnt see any of the burned out homes that characterized so many poorer neighborhoods where pro and anti green factions had fought their battles .
the crippled teener took a hurried look to see if there were a flat roof close by , but all the houses were gabled .
although she wasnt eager to land in the road , she wasnt about to attempt a landing on a peaked roof while one foot was twisted in a knot .
looking ahead , she decided that she would touch down in the middle of the next intersection .
at least , at a crossroads , if trouble came , she would have four ways to escape .
prissi landed hard on her left foot , twisted something , yelped , hopped , yelped , hopped again , and came to a graceless stop .
even as she was turning around to see if her appearance had drawn any undesirable attention , prissi hobbled over to the worn , chipped curb .
she stepped up on the pocked asphalt using just the toes of her feet .
after getting her balance , the winger slowly lowered her heels toward the roads surface .
the pain was excruciating , but by the time prissi had stretched her arches a fifth time , she could tell the cramp was starting to loosen up .
even before the pain had subsided by half , prissi started to laughpartly , in relief and , partly , in reliving .
it had been the end of the first week of cross country practice .
in the middle of the night she had been ripped from sleep by the very same cramp in her arch as she was now experiencing .
shrieking in pain , she had flung herself from the lower bunk and crashed into nasty nancys desk .
as prissi had thrashed about in the dark , shoes , styli , mugs and music had flown around the cramped room like shrapnel .
prissi shrieks were joined by nasty nancys terrified screams at whatever horror had gotten into their pitch black room .
the wild teener ripped open the door , staggered into the dusky lighted hallway , and banged against a wall .
she grabbed the cramping foot , staggered , hopped , hoped , then fell against the opposite wall and slumped to the floor .
moaned .
wailed .
writhed .
then , heard the clicks and slams of hallway doors and frightened whispers of floor mates .
the slap of bare feet and the calm honeyed tones of ms. hepenny .
youre fine , dear .
just fine .
felt soft fingers on her cheeks , stroking , stroking , then , suddenly squeezing hard and prizing open prissis tightly clenched jaw .
something soft and fuzzya sock , no , a towel stuffed into her mouth .
again , the dulcet tones belying the violence used to open her mouth , youre fine , dear .
just fine .
not fine .
agony .
where are your medications ?
then , a hall floor fish eye lens view of miss tronces famous teal chenille slippers .
scuffing rapidly .
stopping .
what ?
what ?
in tronces best , and most incontrovertible , bark , what is going on ?
langues had a seizure .
petit mal , id guess .
ive first aided her .
thrashing about .
shaking her head .
grabbing her foot .
oh my , here comes another one .
ms. hepenny stooping to provide more help .
a bellowed , move .
miss tronce on her dock piling knees catching prissis flailing foot as neatly as a polar bear his salmon .
holding the ankle tightly in the dense warmth between her massive upper arm and her more massive breast shelf .
pushingomagodbendingohohmagodpushingohohohmagodpushing until prissis pain turned into shooting stars , an independence day finaleomaaaand , then , as suddenly as it had come , like summer hail , the cramp was gone .
tronces growl of satisfaction .
climax and curtain , girls .
back .
to .
bed .
tronce , in a way that defied both age and gravity , brought both herself and prissi to a standing position .
to bed , girls .
now .
holding her by the arm , tronce walking her back toward her own apartment .
when prissi hesitated , tronce ordering , walk , langue , walk .
tronces living room .
a smallish room with a dangerous maze of book stacks .
petra after the quake .
victorian deep red walls fighting the good orderly fight against dozens of parrot colored fifth world paintings .
tronce making prissi step on a russet brick used as a door stop .
step , lower , stretch .
again .
good .
keep going .
prissi worked .
tronce disappeared .
came back with a large mug of warm milk .
milk for calcium .
warmth for comfort .
pointed a breadstick sized finger at prissi .
if youre going to run , youll need lots of calcium to keep from cramping .
when it happens again , as it will , if its your arch , get all of your weight on your toes .
if its a calf , point your toes away and then pull them back as far as you can .
if its the back of your thigh , well , just scream until you pass out .
itll make you feel better to do something violent .
milk finished , prissi hovered .
something deep stirred by tronces no nonsense care .
tronce , again , pointed her finger , like god to adam , be gone .
remember , never fear pain .
fight it .
or , accept it .
a small tic appeared in one corner of miss tronces thin lipped mouth and prissi realized that she was seeing a smile .
half way back to her dorm room , prissi had felt a twinge in her foot .
she had slowed her pace and lightened her step , but only for a step or two .
the rest of the way she had stomped .
and had felt safer than she had at any time since her mothers death .
prissi brushed the thoughts of miss tronce away from her eyes and kept stretching her arch until the pain was gone .
instead of immediately returning to the air , however , she decided to walk until she was sure the cramp really was gone .
although there were cars and truclets in a few of the driveways she passed , there didnt seem to be anyone home in any of the houses .
as her fingers unwove the snarls in her hair , the teener wondered what people did in such a desolate place so far from the city .
since prissi had been in noramica for less than three years and that mostly in the environs of manhattan and dutton , she only had a cursory knowledge of how the rest of the country lived .
if she were in burundi , she would intuitively know whether a village was empty because of war , disease , pestilence or because the villagers were in their fields planting or harvesting .
here , the silence and emptiness around her carried no information .
it could be that all of the children were in a daycarium or school and every parent was working .
or , as easily , a plague could have wiped out the inhabitants .
prissi remembered walking with her father into a village just west of mount heha at the end of the dry season and finding all the inhabitants dead .
it had only taken seconds to know that they had died from dysentery from drinking mud water after the government troops had stolen all of their lifestraw water purifiers .
after walking less than two blocks , prissi flared her wings , did a dozen deep knee squats , stretched her calves and arches and flew .
once the village was behind her , prissi felt better however those good feelings werent buoyant enough to get her much more than ten meters off the ground .
as a result , she wasnt high enough to get a fix on the long island expressway .
again , she considered activating her mypod , but quickly put that thought aside as she remembered the orange winged men who had attacked her twice already .
she now knew for sure who had sent the blue jays and knew that they had intended to kill her , but the orange wingers and their less than deadly behavior was still a puzzle .
prissi told herself that it had to be dr. baudgew behind those attacks , but she couldnt understand what his ends might be .
however , whatever they were , it was better to stay off the grid and deal with the problems lack of information would bring than to risk another attack .
she wished that she had thought to take a compass when she and her father had fled their apartment .
in africa , she had carried a compass more often than she had worn a watch .
now , she didnt know what to do beyond looking ahead , picking a point , flying to it and picking another point .
twenty minutes later , prissi was back on the ground digging the tips of her thumbs into a knot in her right calf .
fifteen minutes after she had gotten herself back in the air , she again was forced to descend .
this time the only place to land was on a hillside covered in small trees , low scrub and gordian knots of raspberry briers .
in the few seconds the floundering girl had to make her decision of where to land , after the muscles controlling her right wing started spasming like an eel out of water , prissi opted to suffer the briers rather than smash into a tree .
by the time she got herself stopped , extricated from the tenacious thorns , back on her feet and standing upon a small outcrop of blue gray rock , where she could massage her wing muscles , she was having second thoughts about missing the trees .
she looked back at the thick trail of feathers caught in the briers and wondered how those losses would affect her flying .
after the cramp was gone , even though the sun was drifting lower , prissi stood on the rock and took her time smearing away the blood on her legs and arms .
even after her wounds were tended , the teener remained motionless and just stared at the sky .
for the very first time since she had fledged , prissi langue was afraid to get back into the air .
she didnt trust her wings , nor her muscles , nor her lungs .
even though daylight was fast fading and she knew that she had no option but to fly , that knowledge failed to free her frozen feet .
prissi was still staring at the sky , a darkening vastness where those she most loved had gone , when a flock of cedar waxwings landed in the brier patch .
prissis gaze drifted down to watch the small brown and yellow birds .
their black masks , cockily crested heads , and intriguing habit of passing the last of the winter dried berries back and forth among one another made prissi think of a band of merry thieves .
her old friend jiffy and her new friends , yoli and lavie la , too , had shared what they had with her .
as prissi continued to watch the waxwings , her breathing calmed and some of her courage began to return .
when the flock of birds suddenly flew off , prissi knew that it was time for her , too , to go .
for a third time , the rested traveler stared at her mypod .
she knew she could turn it on and in less than a minute know exactly where she was and how far she had to go .
the whole reason she had dumped her old mypod and bought the one strapped to her wrist was so that she could use it .
but , she wasnt positive that the gap toothed man in spicetown hadnt done something to the mypod so that she could be traced .
more worrisome , she didnt know how the orange feathered wingers had found hertwice .
plus , as far as she knew , anyone asking for a location fix from out in the middle of nowhere might trigger some kind of rescue effort .
she didnt need to be sitting in a police station somewhere answering questions from suspicious hawks while malignant forces gathered round .
prissi took a last breath , exhaled and should have launched herself .
but , her wings refused to move .
freeieekin coward .
cmon , you freeieekin traitors , flap .
now .
flap .
prissi had a vision of teal chenille slippers flapping down a hall .
cmon .
finally , prissis wings responded .
a couple of minutes later she was high enough to see that the land ahead was an unending carpet of what she had just left .
looking at kilometers after kilometer of brier and brush caused the girls newly regained courage to falter .
flap .
dambit .
flap .
and prissi flapped and flew , and when her thigh cramped , she let it cramp until it was drawn up almost to her chest and she was screaming and she still flew .
and when the sun hurtled to the ground and the treetops were painted in a rose that quickly darkened to red and then wine , she still flew .
and when the treetops faded away under night shadow , prissi canted her wings and flew higher and higher until , when she looked back over her shoulder , she could see nothing but a long string of blackish red , like a stream of cooling lava , on the western horizon far behind her .
she flew high , and , then , higher , until the cold chattered her teeth , shivered her body , and distracted her from the cramps in her thighs .
she flew over a long straight strand of seed pearls glowing north and south all the way to the water .
she assumed that necklace of lights marked the outer edge of the pale , the end of civilization .
and still she flew .
once past that point of no return , prissi flew even higher .
but , as high as prissi flew , she could see nothing in all in the darkness before her .
not a single light .
no silvery string of stream .
no darker patch of black .
prissi flew and flew until she got to a place where she knew that this would be the very last time she would ever fly .
and she flew and thought about her mother and father and what it would be like , if it would be like anything , when she flew far enough to be where they had gone .
and she flew through the cold and in darkness and flew until she passed through a gate that opened her memories of the ineffable joy of flight , of the indescribable welcome of being in an empty space high above the earth , without a single soul in sight .
high and free oforange wingers , free of africas burnt shanties and bloat bellied babies and mangy jackals and the swirling earth bound clouds of red dust and black smoke , free of noramicas greed and power and two faced friends , free of mystery and adventure , free of the drudgery ofeverything .
and , despite the pain and the fire in her lung and the spasms in her limbs , prissi langue flew in perfect contentment .
and when her right wing popped free and flapped to its own silent song , prissi felt only joy .
she laughed at how at peace she was .
then , on a whim , she twisted her good wing down and flew an off kilter loop .
laughed more and did a second , then a third and fourth loopmore than she had ever done before and done so fast and so well that she had no idea , nor even cared , whether she was flying up , down or sideways , still headed east or headed back from where she just had come , or headed straight down .
laughing .
laughing in a way that reminded her of the excited cackle of hyenas .
prissi pulled her working wing tight to her body and let gravity tell her which way was down .
then , as she plummeted to the earth , she noticed a small break in the clouds letting the moon hidden behind those clouds light a narrow patch of earth .
in desperation , prissi flung out her wing .
the wind nearly tore it off .
she flapped , but with just one wing , her flight could only be unstable and disordered .
she reached over with both hands and pushed up on her dislocated right wing .
dislocated , but not completely useless .
like a luffing sail , it caught the wind , filled , and she began a slip sliding glide toward the large patch of not quite black .
a sudden desire to come to that differently dark place , a desire stronger than anything she could remember ever wanting except her mother , swept over her .
prissi knew that only in a poetical sense would she ever get to her destination .
her altitude , her speed , her floundering wing and her dwindling energy could not get her there .
a noise as hysterical as the laughter she had made before , but sad , sputtered through her lips .
prissi squeezed her eyes tightly shut , dark against dark , gave a desperate click of her heels , and flapped with her one wing toward her fate .
chapter thirty one death rattles and riddles even though it had been had been two years since olewan had talked to mortos , when she heard the pounding on the door she knew its cause .
when santos first grew sick , she and the leader of the centaurs had seen each other almost every day .
but since the time that santos , knowing that any help that olewan might give to him would be only a palliative , went back into the green to die , mortos had come back to the bury just a handful of times .
each time after that , his expressed purpose had been to report on santos further decline , but his real purpose had been first to inveigle , then to petition , later to demand and , finally , to plead that olewan use her science and skills to do what was necessary to prevent the extinction of his species .
on those days when mortos anger grew to where his hooves stomped the pitted concrete floors of the bury and his long ebony tail flailed the walls of the anteroom of her laboratory , olewan always offered the aging centsur an open face and sympathetic words .
that apparently caring face , however , hid a cold closed heart .
while mortos talked of extinction of a species , olewan anticipated the proper end of an aberration , the dark folly , a horrific hubristic experiment .
when olewan was elena howe and first learned what her husband , joshua fflowers , wanted to accomplish with his collection of young cutting edge scientists in his cutting edge facility , she had been more amused than horrified .
the night joshua told her that he had decided to call his new venture centsurety because he was confident his people surely would be able both to develop centaurs and to add a century to a persons life , she had laughed at his arrogance .
now , even more than a half century later , she could remember how she had ridiculed himwhy not dream bigger dreams hippocampi and amphisbaena , and minotaurs , sirens and harpies ?
she had laced her sarcasm with near hysterical laughter as she had asked why he was so eager to step outside the bounds of science , where he was treated as a god , into the role of god , where he assuredly would be treated as a fool , freak , felon , or all three .
her husbands answer was the one that explorers had used from time immemorial , an answer that brooked neither doubt nor interference if it could be done , it should and would be done .
when elena had shaken her head at the absolute folly , the unmitigated arrogance of what he was proposing , joshua fflowers had taken her hand , and , as he had done successfully so many times during the twenty years of their romance and marriage , begged that she help him just one more time .
and , when , for the very first time , she had resisted his will , he had promised her that it would be his last request .
he had promised that if she would use all of her great gifts to achieve his final dream , then anything he could give , he would give to her .
elena howe had gripped the warm strong fingers of the remarkable and complicated man who was her husband , had looked into his mischievous brown eyes , which returned her stare without wavering , and had said , i want your time and our baby .
one child , two , twelve , could be got from the eggs harvested from her womb before that organ had been removed because of a different kind of growth .
she had asked , and her husband , lover , colleague , friend had answered .
as the warmest smile split his face , joshua fflowers had said , that , and more , my elena .
to invent the centaurs , elena , joined by vartan smarkzy , had worked , and wrestled and , finally , had discovered the master key .
they took that key and linked it to seven minor keys other centsurety teams had seduced from nature .
putting all their work together , the scientists had ended with a dozen embryos which darwin would have been hard put to explain .
joshua fflowers , who over those years had become a mix of prussian ringmaster and dark cheerleader , was beyond joy .
after a day , or many days , of doing the things he had to do for cygnetics to continue to grow and to keep its status as the worlds most profitable business , he would roto out from manhattan to cold spring harbor , burst into the lab and stare at the twelve little worlds wherein his dreams grew .
stare and rejoice until the things in the jar died .
there had been cycle after cycle of joy and grief as one generation of embryonic centaurs died and a next generation was grown .
while one myth was being made real by smarkzy and elena , a far older , far more powerful myth was being pursued by roan winslow and glen laureby .
after three years of false leads and blind alleys , they , too , had a breakthrough .
a major , though seriously flawed , breakthrough .
that breakthrough was so important that it was shared with no one but joshua fflowers .
with remarkable progress being made on his two dreams , joshua fflowers was so filled with largesse that he decided to give elena an even better gift than the two she had wished for .
on elenas forty fifth birthday , joshua fflowers threw a party at the centsurety lab .
it was a perfect party for elenabeer and hotdogs and hamburgers on a grill with music from the ancientsmeatloaf , mayall , and mayer .
fflowers made an effusive toast to elena , the rose compass of his soul , while the partygoers toasted with small glasses before drinking the aquavit they contained .
late that night , fflowers , although angered that roan winslow had already left and would miss the toast , gathered smarkzy , elena , and laureby , together .
he offered them small glasses of what he said was the rarest aquavit , the water of life , in the world , and toasted their genius .
when the party was over , he whisked elena away .
three days later elena awoke to her giftshe was the first person in the world to be given wing transplants .
as a result of fflowers gift , elenas two wishes , for a child and fflowers time , were never fulfilled .
repulsed at his arrogancehow could someone who said he loved her have her body cut and carved to fasten on a dead persons wingselena plotted a fitting revenge .
she would take what he valued mostshe would take his dreams by destroying the centaur embryos , the centsurety research and the laboratory that created them .
she would take his future by substituting the clutch of her eggs stored in the centsurety lab .
finally , she would take what he often said he valued mostherself , especially her brains , and disappear .
elena had no doubt that what she planned to do to joshua fflowers was more than justified , but , as she readied her plans , she realized that the consequences of her actions might not be permanent .
she could kill the embryos , but as long as smarkzy had knowledge of the processes , more centaurs could be created .
when elena talked to vartan smarkzy , she found him to be as horrified at what joshua fflowers had done to her as she was herself .
horrified , yes , but not quite ready to sacrifice his career and , given how megalomaniacal fflowers was , perhaps , his life .
to win smarkzy over , elena told him of the discovery made by roan winslow and glen laureby .
while that definitely shifted smarkzys thinking , it wasnt until fflowers announced that liquid they had toasted with on the night of her birthday was truly aquavitthe water of life , that smarkzy became elenas ally .
standing before that small group of phenomenal scientists , fflowers , the arrogant arbiter of their lives , told them how humbled he was by their intelligence , their creativity , and their persistence .
seeing them , their work , their results , had inspired him .
fflowers told them how he had taken the output of winslow and laurebys research , linked it with human growth hormone , and , here he brought his fingers to his lips like a video chef , made a recipe for long life .
it was his secret triumph .
he had to admit to all of them .
he was jealous of what they did .
as cygnetics had grown , he had had to spend more time in hyper kinetic corporate offices and quiet banker lairs .
he missed the excitement of the lab .
he had wanted to prove to himself that he could still do science .
real science .
eye popping , paradigm shifting , capital s , science .
he had tested this miraculous mixture , which had spilled from his unconscious , on mice , rabbits and dogs .
the mice had lived almost twenty percent beyond their expected life expectancyand he was sure the rabbits and dogs would do as well .
they might think he had rushed things , but it was important to have the gift be ready for the birthday party .
he apologized that he had not discovered the secret of everlasting life .
no , nothing so grand .
just the much more modest gift of probably twenty more years of this glorious thing life .
he knew that he had taken three years of their lives in round the clock research .
he was eternally grateful for what they had done .
to repay them , he gave them back those years many fold .
olewans head shook back and forth as she recalled how happy , and apparently guileless , joshua fflowers had been while the recipients of his largess fought off panic .
olewans head continued to shake .
the ironic thing was that their fears had been both on target and misplaced .
now , olewan was almost twenty years beyond her expected lifespan .
as was fflowers .
she knew from her last message from glen laureby that smarkzy still lived .
all of those who had unknowingly drunk fflowers elixir had lived longer than their peers , but she wondered how much gratitude they had for that extra score since it had been spent with twisted hands and feet and atrophied muscles .
longevity , like flight , had come at a price .
even while she was working on the first wing mutations , elena howe had worried at the price .
flying was freedom , but wings were slavesto age and weight and disease .
flying was for the strong .
old people were not strong .
the odds of a winger flying more than a hundred meters after their seventieth birthday were small .
given that the average life span of white noramicans was approaching ninety , the reality was that most wingers could expect fifty or sixty years of flight and then twenty or more years of carrying around a set of useless and cumbersome appendages .
ornamentsmomenti morimomenti voli .
old thoughts were moving through a mind that was as old and twisted as the legs that slowly crab walked up the long ramp that lead to the entrance of the bury .
olewan knew , as she knew many things without knowing how she knew them , that it would be mortos at the door .
an impatient hoof banged loudly off the steel frame and then again , even louder .
olewan opened the door to an old man dressed in a raggedy jacket with a small injured bird roughly held in his arms .
he held the girl out like an offering .
in a guttural voice that was more at ease with consonants than vowels , the centaur said , from your species .
get good care .
olewan , whose heart had not been touched in years , reached out a knot of fingers to smooth a small patch of bent and broken feathers .
suddenly , the old woman was as rigid as lots wife .
where did you find her ?
in tree by bay .
sky dark .
heard noise , loud .
took time .
no noise .
then , breathing .
rasp .
the hoary centaur stared hard at olewan .
know that sound .
santos .
merkos .
the old woman had been so overcome by the girls face that she hadnt focused on her injuries .
once aware of all the harm , and despite her hobbled legs , olewan darted back from the doorway with the jerky speed of a frightened crab .
here , quick , bring her in .
mortos brought his hooves to the very edge of the threshold , then , to olewans dismay , he bent forward and gently laid the broken girl on the concrete floor .
no , stop .
what are you doing ?
freak , monsternon speciesnot worthy of yournormalhome .
the centaur whirled about and his hooves sounded like spring thunder as he galloped away .
olewan bent over the girl whose chest was jerking about as if she were sobbing .
the crone touched the girls face in awe , before she scuttled down the long ill lit hallway croaking , boy .
boy !
quick .
i want you .
it was hours later .
olewan , her shape resembling a bag of dirty laundry , was slumped down in a chair laboriously making her way through an exhausted , twitching snore filled sleep .
prissis sleep was deeper , drug deep .
her body was still except for the erratic rise and fall of her chest , which emitted a discordant mix of rasps , wheezes , and sharp clicks .
the third person in the operatory , a seventeen year old not quite feral boy , was hyper alert .
he stood immobile over the ancient hospital bed and took in the sights , sounds and smells of the wounded girl .
after many minutes , the hands which had been hanging at his sides came to life .
with the stealth of a hunting cat , they slowly , smoothly and sinuously moved toward prissi .
two fingers on his left hand , fingers with broken nails and scabbed skin , touched the blue sheened skin just above where an iv line punctured the girls wrist .
his fingertips moved to touch the girls own cracked and chipped nails .
they gathered and smoothed a small hank of gritty hair .
a minute later , the boy moved to the foot of the bed so that he could stare at the girls face straight on .
his breathing and his body calmed until he was as still as when he watched in the woods .
he never had imagined that what he now was seeing would look like it did .
after a time , a noise , neither growl nor purr and not quite a keen threndled from his chest .
minutes after the noise began , the teener started as if he had been shocked .
he fled the dim room , raced down the darkened hallway and burst into the darker night .
from the air , certainly , and even from ground level an observant visitor would think the greens snarl of brush , vine , shrub and struggling trees was impenetrable .
in fact , that was only mostly true .
the all devouring fire of the ticklish situation had left thousands of square miles of fertilized earth as inviting of creation as a blank canvas .
the warming of the worlds waters and air had added its welcome .
less than a dozen years after the fire , the land around the bury had formed dense green mats broken only by the encroaching waters , buckled roads and parking lots , and the steel , stone and concrete skeletons of the burned out buildings of what once had been brookhaven national laboratory .
within a quarter century , when seen from the air , there looked to be nothing on long island east of huntington but the green of jungle and the silver , greens and browns of the insidious waters .
all that had been made by man , including the scientific sprawl of brookhaven had been destroyed and , as if in shame , blanketed by nature .
however , for those intrepid enough to crawl under its green covers to seek out the jungles secrets , they would have found a warren of pathsactually , more tunnels than paths .
these dark lush corridors came in many sizes .
some were small enough to deny entry to weasels others were big enough that the largest animals in the woodsdeer , black bear , man , horse and man horsecould make their way .
the boy , who called himself fair , ran out of the burys entrance and into a small courtyard concealed under a canopy of growth that hid it as well as the scores of shells of what once had been the central campus of the laboratory .
despite the almost complete lack of light under the thick mat of trees , the boy lengthened his stride .
at the edge of the clearing , his legs skipped , darted , stuttered , and then lunged , like a rabbit , as he entered the jungle .
once inside the tunnel , his arms forced aside the hungry little hands of the kudzu as his hands held back the switches of forsythia eager to punish .
his head bounced and ducked like a dervish in ecstasy as he avoided the low limbs of oak , ash , horse chestnut , willow , maple , river birch and pecan trees .
the boy , much more comfortable now that he was in the thick dark and thicker brush , gracefully fled down the tunnel until , ten minutes after leaving the injured girl , he suddenly jumped sideways through a nearly invisible break , scrabbled down an embankment and came to rest with wet eyes and ragged breath along the edge of a small stream .
the gently flowing water , no more than a few meters across , was gleaming argent from the hovering moon shining down through a small break in the canopy .
fair dried his eyes with a quick wipe of his hands .
slowing his breathing took longer .
finally though , the ache in his chest and the burning at the back of his throat faded .
he twisted a pinch of flesh below his chin as if it were a stopcock which would let the tumbling thoughts which filled his mind drain .
after ten minutes , the boy was able to sit perfectly still within the small grotto of vines .
he sat , watched and waited .
in minutes , or hourswith an empty mind he had no way of knowingthe boy heard a slow rhythmic sound , like a lazy man sweeping , drift across the water .
more sweeping .
a rest .
more sweeping .
a longer rest .
a small , not to be denied smile appeared on fairs face .
more sweeping and , then , a small black bear , blacker than the woods from which it emerged , crouched at the top of the opposite bank .
the bear half stood , and , as if being polite to an old woman or honored guest , bobbed its head before hunching back down .
knowing this particular yearling , fair was biting his lips to hold back laughter .
the bear , too , seemed to know what was coming .
it took two tentative steps forward and moaned in anguish as it began an uncontrolled slide into the water .
as its body was engulfed by the stream , the bear screamed at the injustice of being born a smooth soled clawless mutant .
next , it snorted at the folly of its rage .
finally , it chortled with the pleasure of cavorting in the water .
the bear smacked the stream with its pacific palms .
fair shared a moment of the bears pleasure until the thought that always camehow long could anything without weapons survive in the worldfilled his mind .
the boy held onto that thought as he watched the bear struggle to pull itself out of the stream and make its way back up the bank .
after all sounds of the bear had drifted away like autumn fog , fair stood in a pool of moonlight and looked at both sides of his hands before he kneeling down and leaning over the stream to study the pale doppelganger staring up at him .
he looked for a long time .
the golden snakes of a rising sun were writhing their way through the heavy brush before fair pushed his way back into the bury .
he quietly padded along the hall to where the girl was .
olewan was still sleeping , seemingly little changed except for a thumbprint of drool shining upon her chin .
the girl , though , had changed .
her face , her breaths , the color of her skin all looked worse than before .
as the boy stared at her , a tingling ran down his arms and out to the tips of his fingers .
his breathsshort and brokenbegan to mimic those of the girl .
the tatter clothed boy spun around , took two steps and yanked on the old womans threadbare sweater .
when olewans eyes snapped open , they were bright blue and as happy as a childs .
quick , quick , somethings wrong .
the boy tugged olewans arm twice more .
using fairs impatiently offered hand as support , the stiff jointed geri managed to get on her feet .
however , when the old woman required another second to find her balance , the impatient boy tugged a third time and olewan lost her balance .
luckily , when she fell , it was back into the safety of the warm nest she had just left .
when fair offered his hand again , the old woman knocked it aside with a vicious swipe .
the boy retreated a step before he turned back to the dying girl .
the ancient scientist squirmed her body to the edge of the chair and pushed herself to her feet .
see , look , somethings wrong .
mmmmm .
yes , it is .
dislocated wing , broken leg , intestinal bleeding , probably her pancreasand a concussionif not more .
very wrong .
a frightened fair barked , do something .
i have .
the bones are set .
the bleeding ?
patience .
the boy yelled , no !
not patience .
fix bleeding !
the hag shook her head .
fix her , the frantic boy directed .
im not a doctor .
fairs arms flew up in the air like a marionettes .
you fix snake , raccoon , squirrel , bear , woodman .
the teener flung his arms wide at the large room , a combination laboratory , operatory , dispensary and morgue .
you save a life .
take bird wing .
fix .
take squirrel heart out .
fix .
save things that should die .
kill things that could live .
basement god .
now , here , fair stabbed his finger at the twitching form on the bed , fix .
viper fast , olewans twisted hand darted out and slapped the crying boys face .
go .
go !
you know nothing .
nothing of life and even less of death .
shocked by his mothers slap , fair ran from the room .
after he was gone , a mumblng , finger fidgeting olewan stood over the girl .
how had such a mirror of her genes come to be dying before her eyes ?
even with her age and ills , her porous mind and trickster memory , olewan had no doubt that she was looking at her daughter .
the moment she had seen the girl in mortos arms , she had known what she was seeing .
what she didnt know was what to do .
should she try to save this strange atavism from a distant past ?
whom or what would she be saving ?
who grew this ?
joshua fflowers ?
someone else from the centsurety group ?
baudgew ?
smarkzy ?
a stranger ?
who had stolen her eggs ?
winslow ?
laureby ?
was the girl here by chance or was she an astounding pawn in a chess game suspended for a half century ?
was this broken form here to test her skills and science , assassinate her heart , bring her old age comfort , test her deepest , most hopeless beliefs , or was she here with no intentions , a random act of immeasurable consequence ?
when elena howe first secretly colonized the ruins of brookhaven it was with a half dozen zealous young scientists fleeing from both the criminal consequences of their work at centsurety as well as the unknowable wrath of joshua fflowers .
they had brought some of their science with them .
with what they could scavenge from the scores of undamaged underground labs , and with the help of friends left behind , they were able to feed and shelter themselves and forestall boredom .
for a time .
at the end of the first year , deciding that there must be better forms of exile , two scientists left .
a year later , when the weight of isolation exceeded that of fear , another disappeared .
each time someone left , the difficulty of living among those remaining grew .
within a dozen years elena was alone .
in the first of the alone years , elena had enjoyed the solitude .
it was more than a small pleasure to hear no complaints about the monotony of the food .
there were no arguments about the meager lab supplies .
there was none of the energy sapping donner party politics of a small group of people living under duress .
after the last of the party had slipped away , too shamed or chagrined , or , most likely , angry to say goodbye , elena had taken a deep sigh of relief that had lasted most of a year .
she had emptied her mind of decades of decisions and compromises , stress and sympathy .
she emptied her mind and filled her pockets with rocks , leaves , buds and flowers as she wandered the woods around her .
she spent time with mortos , portos and the other centaurs whom she had rarely seen since they had been released into the woods four years after their release from their gestation jars .
the herd in those days was still healthy and , mostly , happy .
mortos and elena would rest in a shadowy haven .
while the centaur flicked insects away from his birth giver with his long , black curried tail , they would talk about the world about them .
when they first began their talks , each had difficulty making the other understand .
as is true with any insular group , be it prep school or mountain tribe , the centaurs language had diverged from what they had first taken into the woods .
it wasnt just the soundsdiphthongs , occlusions and plosivesthat had changed .
those years engulfed in wood and water , surrounded by a thousand greens , had evolved a language different from the one used by someone who had spent those years filled with the microscopy of her research and social relations .
the language barriers were difficult , but could be , and were , hurdled .
mortos helped elena to see the physical world at a level she had never seen before .
she was used to looking at the world one cell or dna strand at a time .
mortos helped elena to pull her perceptions back from the eyepiece to really look around .
some of the best moments of elenas life , moments equal to if not exceeding the excitement of the day nights and night days when she and fflowers had unraveled the secrets of fledging , had come while riding atop mortos broad shining back as he trotted down unending green tunnels .
the undulation of the centaurs back , the humidity , and , especially , the aqueous green light as the sun fought its way through the tangle , would give elena the sensation she was back snorkeling off grand turk island where she had vacationed as a child .
the conversations had grown longer and the friendship between elena and mortos had grown deeper over the years .
she was as comfortable in the green as he came to be in the bury .
carefully comfortablebecause there was as much that could go wrong in the green for someone with elenas concrete and subway origins as there was danger in the smooth tiled narrow corridors of the bury for the hard hoofed centaur .
the fact that elena had created mortos and his brothers became less important as the years passed .
all was good until santos became sick .
santos sickness awakened the herd to the fact that sickness was the precursor of death and death was the precursor of extinctionif something wasnt done .
olewan remembered the conversations smarkzy , fflowers and she had had sitting atop the counters of the lab at the end of another all night session .
what aspects of their origins would the centaurs mimic ?
would they be as wise as horses or as dumb as men ?
to which diseases would they be vulnerable ?
cancer or colic ?
would their lifespan be more equine or human ?
how would their senses manifest ?
at the time of the centaurs genesis , elena had been both fascinated and horrified by what she and smarkzy were doing .
but , it wasnt until after the fflowers birthday gift of unwanted wings , a time when it seemed like a viable generation of centaur embryos finally was growing , that elena had to make a decision .
as winslow , laureby and elena howe made plans to destroy the laboratory and the knowledge that had been acquired , they had argued about what to do with the forms living in their glass worlds .
in her desire for revenge , elena had called them monsters and wanted them destroyed , but roan winslow and laureby both had insisted that the human part was transcendent and must be saved .
to win their cooperation , elena compromised .
her thought had been to save the centaurs until the others were gone before doing what needed to be done .
however , once the brood had been transferred to the bury , once laureby and winslow had disappeared , and once a two faced smarkzy had weaseled his way back into fflowers good graces , elena had been mystified by her inability to open the incubators to end the twisted life within .
the bitter , childless scientist had been blind sided at how quickly and deeply a maternal instinct had grown .
during the remaining months of gestation , elena closely monitored the fetuses development .
despite the harsh conditions the small demoralized group was working under as it tried to figure out a new way to live , elena would take as much as an hour a day to do no more than stare at the creatures forming in the low light of their improvised environment .
when the centaurs were developed enough to survive on their own , it had been elena who had lived with them for two years in a dormitory setting filled with nippled bottles and nests of dried grass .
with their round , bald , big eyed heads and long gangly legs , the infant centaurs had been endearing .
however , at six months they weighed almost two hundred pounds and were anything but cute .
even with the accelerated growth of the torso and head , they were bizarre looking .
the heads were adult size , but they had the moon faced look of a three year old child .
that lost in space face topped a ten year olds torso which emerged from a colts broadening back and increasingly powerful legs .
it was at this point that that the care elena gave to the centaurs transmuted from a mothers to a warders .
she held down her growing horror and disgust with a sense of dutyduty rigorously defined and rigorously executed .
that duty was kept until the centaurs could survive by themselves in the green .
after that , elena banished the centaurs from her thoughtsuntil all of the other things that held her thoughts disappeared and she was alone .
it was not until then that she thought to go to the green and see how her husbands experiment continued .
first , she had been surprised and , then , engaged .
until santos had become sick .
after that , elena isolated herself until she could not bear another monologue .
to relieve the tedium of self , in imitation of a bored god creating adam and eve , elena made fair from one of her eggs and a seed left by one of those who had run away so many years before .
that experiment , too soon and too like gods , had been a disappointment .
chapter thirty two hide and seek from the moment he was dragged from the hudson , joe has never questioned how accomplished bob tom damall is on a river however given the events of the last three days , joe certainly questions how sane the old man might be .
even as joe bounced down the hudson on his collection of pdfs , he could hear bob tom lamenting the loss of his fishing pole .
after a few minutes , however , joe realized that all of his attention needed to be on the river , his kidnappers , and their actions , and not on bob toms antics .
it was four or five hours later and two hours after a curve in the hudson had allowed joes mound of pfds to break free of the current when joes walk along the shadowy edge of the eastern shore of the river in interrupted by the old mans call .
after a few minutes of helloing back and forth bob tom drops out of the night and lands by joe .
the old mans face is covered in dried blood as is one of his hands , but joe can see that bob toms favorite fishing pole is tucked in his pants .
you got it .
course , i did .
what happened ?
there was some discussion as to ownership , but once that got resolved , they handed it over .
joe stared at bob toms wound before saying , just like that .
power of persuasion , noby , rhetoric can be a powerful thing .
during the ensuing days as they made their way south toward manhattan , joe kept expecting bob tom to say more , to gloat , to sing his own praises as he always seemed to do , but the old man never did offer any more explanation that those first sentences .
it wasnt until they were ten kliks north of the city and bob tom insisted that they scuttle the small power boat they had stolen the night before , that joe wondered whether the riverman had done something so bad to the crew that he was worried about hawks looking for him .
joe crawls out of the foam edged river onto shore at 215th street , just south of where the harlem river marks the northern edge of manhattan .
although joe is very happy to be back on land , he cant help but worry about what aquatic parasites might be attacking his body through the scratches and scrapes he has gotten during the last days .
after bob tom lands and busies himself coiling the rope he has used to pull joe ashore , joe tells the old man he needs to find someplace where he can thoroughly wash himself .
the old man snorts , no real rivermans gon na get sickly from a bitty little bug you cant even see .
besides , its good insurance .
you walk around this here town smelling like you do and folks might sniff twice , but they aint gon na take after you like they done in albany .
while joe takes some extra comfort in thinking that bob tom might be right , he is mainly basing his hopes that he goes unregognized on the transformation he has made by shaving his head and eyebrows with an ancient octo blade they had requisitioned from a summer camp lodge .
joe hopes that his bald head and eyebrow welts , plus the patchy stubble on his chin be enough to keep people from recognizing the missing son of the co president of cygnetics .
and even though you still got lots to learn about river life , noby one , any bug that looks at you the way you look now is gon na figger youre already desperate sick with something a whole world worse than whatever it could inflict on you .
now , where we goin and how we getting there ?
joe has wanted to call nancy to see if she has heard from prissi , but he doesnt trust nancy to keep a secret .
he guesses that if she hasnt heard any newz that he has reunited with his family she will assume that he is trying to find prissiwhich can only mean that manhattan is his destination .
even though joes has spent many of the hours they were captives thinking of the best answer to bob toms question , he still wavers , i dont know .
maybe at the nypd .
i think we should start where she and her pa lived .
thats the last place she would be .
i know that , but mebbe well find something thatll get us started .
kinda like given a dog a scent .
joe disagrees , dont you think whoever is after her will already have done that ?
if something is there , theyll already have found whatever it was .
good god in heaven , noby , what do they teach you at that school of yours ?
you think if you want a huntin dog , you just go git the first thing with a waggly tail and floppy ears ?
theres a wide world of difference between this here dogs nose and some others .
and let me remind you that yore lucky to be spending yore days with the best nosed damall dog in this here quarter of the country .
joe gives bob tom a deep bow , i know .
and i also know ill never be allowed to forget .
bob tom slaps his thighs and shuffles his feet , there you go , son .
now , lets git .
two hours later , joe stands a half block down and across the street from the entranceway of the gramercy arms partially camouflaged by the lush ficus tree he is holding in a cerulean ceramic pot .
bob tom damall is directly across from the apartment buildings entrance taking an interminably long time trying to re pak his chest pak .
joe watches him and as soon he sees the flick of the old mans hand , he picks up the pot and starts for the door .
when bob tom picks up the pak and shakes it as if to settle its contents , joe picks up the pace .
as he gets close enough to see in the lobby , he adjusts his pace .
he watches the elevator light switch from 2 to l. three seconds later the elevator doors slide open .
joe reads the speed of the roly poly woman leaving the elevator with the instinct he has honed in hundreds of hockey games so as to perfectly time his arrival .
as the woman reaches for the handle on the door , joe hefts the pot to make it more difficult for the woman , whose eyes have the shallow bright shine of costume jewels , to see past the ficus leaves to his newly bald head and the red welts where his eyebrows should be .
when the womans hand falters , joe wiggles the tree a second time .
the door opens .
joe tips the tree away from his face and , grinning like a drunken monkey , staggers in .
seeing what she has let in , the woman begins swatting away joes word of thanks , like they were midges on a muggy night , as she totters out the door .
joe walks toward the elevator , but as soon as the woman is out of sight , he hurries back to the door .
bob tom is already half way across the street .
once the old winger is safely inside , joe dumps the pot in a corner of the lobby and races to the stairway door .
he and bob tom have agreed that joe should stay two flights of stairs above the old man to warn him if the improbablesomeone using the stairs in the middle of the morningis happening .
when joe arrives on the fifth floor , he waits behind the stairway door until a wheezing bob tom catches up with him .
once both invaders are in the quiet , low lighted hallway , joe stands guard as bob tom hunches over the door handle to do whatever magic he is going to do to get into the langues apartment .
in the action vids joe infrequently watches , thieves use sophisticated sensors and decryptors to get past locked doors .
joe doesnt expect to see those kinds of tools get pulled from the old mans pak , but he realizes that he wont be surprised to see bob tom bring out some small box with a glowing screen and lots of buttons .
instead , the riverman taps the wall alongside the door frame a half dozen times with a knuckle .
when he is satisfied , he tells joe to take off his coat and spread it on the floor beneath the door handle .
when that is done , he pulls out a worn canvas scabbard from his pak and withdraws a shiny fish gutting knife .
bob tom stabs the wall and begins hacking downward .
debris falls onto joes coat .
that orta kill the alarm .
the old man withdraws the knife and flips it around so that the serrated edge is down and begins sawing away at the wall until he has three sides of a rectangle cut out .
he scores the bottom edge , then , pushes in that section of the wall like its the flap on a cat door .
the old mans arm disappears into the hole and he begins cutting through the interior side of the wall .
a minute later , joe watches the old mans arm disappear into the hole up to his elbow .
there are two clicks and bob tom opens the door with his free hand .
he steps back and makes a gracious sweep of his hand .
gordian knot .
whos got time for all the fancy stuff ?
grab your coat and careful with them scraps .
before he enters the apartment , bob tom taps the exterior wall flap back in place .
noby , find me a piece of paper , and a pen .
as soon as joe returns with the supplies , bob tom folds the sheet in half , scribbles a note about hemming the curtains and writes , ms. b in large block letters on the outside .
noby , tape that over the cut , will ya , while my nose starts workin .
joe has been in prissis room at dutton so , despite the open drawers and scattered papers , it takes a minute for him to decide whether he is just seeing a bigger version of her dorm room or whether someone has been searching the apartment .
it also takes him awhile to find any tape , but after he does , joe covers the evidence of their break in with the note .
while bob tom remains standing in the middle of the living room , the teener wanders aimlessly around the five room flat , touching things and thinking about how different prissis life is from his .
when joe gives him a look as he passes by in his meanderings , bob tom declares , ya got ta let em come to you .
a good dogs a still dog .
the old man does the same motionless inquiry in each of the other rooms .
finally , after a quarter hour he says , well , she aint here .
joe sputters .
so , i guess well go where she was .
and wheres that ?
well , i reckon we orta take a look at that liberry she was at and that market where them food wrappers come from in the kitchen and , probly , that school where them kids in the pitcher in her room go to .
id say thats a start .
joe goes back to look at the pix in prissis bedroom of a dozen kids of various sizes and colors standing close together .
prissi is in the background with a half grin .
a skinny black boy with a keyboard wide smile , holding a soccer ball tightly to his chest , stands front and center .
the boy in the pix , but two two years older , and , with his shorn scalp and rough sewn stitches , looking somewhat the worse for wear , is standing behind the counter when joe and bob tom come through the door of the ez lam global market .
as they walk up and down the aisles , bob tom keeps whistling through his teeth and muttering jeezm as he looks at the diversity of food for sale .
makes squirrel and coon and even bear look pretty damall tame .
my guts haingry , no denyin that , but i aint so sure my mind is gon na let it eat most here all of this stuff .
joe reaches for a package of mbatata biscuits .
lets try these .
prissi told me she loved them .
bob tom draws back a step as if joe is holding a mongoose cage , which might spring open at any second .
what is it ?
biscuit .
damall , boy , who you foolin ?
i growed up with biskits and these here shore dont look like any bisket i ever et before .
whats in im ?
an exasperated , but laughing , joe says , damall your own self , bob tom , you shore aint much of a city man .
i reckon flour or sumpin pretty close to flours in im .
well , hells bells , noby , lime , lye and rat pizen look sumpin like flour .
here , give em to me .
bob tom grabs the box and stomps toward the front of the store with joe in his wake .
the young man behind the counter looks at the pair warily .
excuse me , young'n , whats in these here ?
the riverman rattles the box like a maraca .
joe interrupts , bob tom , theyre fine .
theyre prissis favorites .
well , there aint no easy way to verify that , now is there , since she aint around to ask .
which is why we need to get something to eat and get moving if were going to have any chance of helping her .
lets just pay and go .
joe looks at the young man behind the counter whose face is flash frozen with distrust .
the teener reaches into his pocket and pulls out the pix they have taken from prissis room .
acting as if he doesnt realize that the clerk in front of him is the same person holding the ball in the pix , joe points , this girl .
prissi langue .
shes a good friend of ours .
she lives a couple of blocks from here .
we think something bad may have happened to her .
do you recognize her ?
have you seen her lately ?
as he tries to figure out what is the right thing to do , jiffy reaches out a hand for the pix .
he studies it for a long time before he murmurs , yes , i think , she comes in here sometimes .
lately ?
i dont think during the last few days .
jiffy pauses while he considers whether to say more .
prissi doesnt need any more enemies , but she certainly could use some friends .
while she was healing , prissi had told jiffy about how nancy had abandoned her .
she also told him who she thought was after her .
son , youre taking a long time thinkin .
how bout you let us in on whats got yore tongue .
jiffys body shifts slightly to the right so that his hand is closer to the p button .
joe notes the movement and figures he knows what it means .
stop , bob tom .
thats not doing any good .
joe turns back to the counterman .
if you know prissi very well at all , you probably know she goes to a school in connecticut .
a school called dutton .
i go there , too .
here .
see .
heres my id card .
as he hands over the card , joe keeps talking .
prissi and i , were good friends .
bob tom and i , we know someone , maybe even someone from my family , may be after her .
see my pix , how it doesnt look like me ?
its because i ran away .
maybe you heard ?
now , im hiding , but , when i found out from another friend what was going on , bob tom and i thought that we should try to help .
if prissi doesnt need help , that would be great .
but , if she does , then we want to do what we can .
jiffy makes up his mind .
she went below .
to get away .
i helped her .
bob tom looks at joe , whats below ?
joe shakes his head , i dont know .
jiffy nods his head , below .
theres a world down there .
in the old subway tunnels .
son , im old , but i aint feeble .
you cant tell me livin in a sewer is safe .
jiffys hand rises to his head .
as he touches his stitches he says , not always .
no , i reckon not .
so , why did she go below ?
because she thought it would be safer than being above .
she thought whoever was after her knew her i tag code , but it wasnt that .
someone.. jiffy paused and stared at joe , put a trk r on her .
i found it , the trk r. whoa .
bob tom leans across the counter .
pup , youve moren seen her , youve helped her .
i did .
so , where is she ?
jiffy shakes his head .
i dont know .
i left her three days ago .
shed been hurt .
she was getting better .
she was planning to come back up and try to get away .
away where ?
she wouldnt say .
i dont think she wanted anyone to know .
bob toms face darkens , because she didnt trust you .
jiffys anger propels him forward a step , but after looking at the old mans face , he retreats , no , because she didnt trust herself .
people who have tried to help her , like her father and me , have gotten hurt .
she didnt want that to happen again .
although joe has a restraining hand on bob toms arm , most of the rivermans torso is leaning across the countertop .
jiffys body is pressed against the wall .
how bout you take us where she isor , was , if that be the case .
jiffy shakes his head emphatically , im not going back down there .
ill help you get down , but i wont go with you .
because yore feart ?
because i doubt prissi is down below , but im fairly sure there are people down there that i dont want to meet again .
what kinda folks ?
jiffy begins to tell the story of what had happened to prissi and himself with the zies .
after the bleeding , disoriented jiffy had been discovered in the tunnel by yoli and lavie la , and nursed for a day , they had shown him another way back to the surface which not only lowered the boys chances of running into the zies but also offered an easier exit .
that path presents no difficulties in bob tom and joe in their descent and their going remains smooth until the approach the lafayette street station .
even before they can see into the station , they can hear a stew of shouts , songs and screams .
they approach the end of the tunnel cautiously .
from where they remain hidden in the darkness , they watch something that is less than a melee but more than an italo irish wedding .
two stocky boys with round heads , no necks and ears as big as conch shells are pounding something raggedy and hairy with rough cut swords of badboard .
i guess the circus has reassembled .
you ready , noby ?
were not going in there .
of course , we are .
im eighty one , have never missed a party , and dont reckon to start now .
its not a party .
its a fight .
as bob tom strides into the light , he turns back toward joe , well , noby , scuse me , but where i come from , there aint much difference .
a second later , a small group of zies , dividing their attention between the thrashing and a roaring fire fueled with a mattress , notice the winged stranger walking toward them .
without a word spoken , like a nest of ants , the whole group mills in agitation for a few seconds before some rush to collect rocks , bottles and clubs .
as the armed crowd begins to surge toward the riverman , bob tom stops and bellows , we welcome you today .
we welcome you to play .
we see .
we say .
as the old man yells out the word , pray , he leaps forward toward the motley of zies , flares his wings , and commands , kneel .
kneel and obey or wear my wrath like a fiery garment .
the crowd slows , then huddles like cows in a summer storm .
bob tom strides forward and , trailing behind , with guilt as a propellant , joe emerges from the shadows .
kneel or suffer , my weak and wounded troth .
kneel before my magic fells you like lightning slays the tallest tree .
the stunned joe , who is now tagging along a couple of steps behind the old winger , is even more astounded when bob tom pulls the butt end of his fly rod from its case and whips it through the air .
except for two old men who drop to their knees , the rest of the zies retreat several steps .
as the rod slices through the air , the riverman yells , beware .
its hiss is nothing compared to its bite .
kneel in thrall , churls , or bid this sunless day adieu .
the riverman beats his wings and launches himself toward the mob .
before his wings have flapped twice , all of the zies have prostrated themselves onto the pocked and filthy subway concrete .
after bob tom lands at the edge of the cowering zies , he whips his fly rod back and forth like a manic dartagnan .
finally , bob tom spreads his legs , stomps a foot , then , with a voice loud enough to echo from the curved ceiling high above , bellows , call me king .
king , king , is heard from the crowd .
but , other words , kill im .
kill em , can also be heard .
a small monkey like man , leaps from the crowd and catapults himself toward bob tom .
bob tom slashes his face with the rod and the zie falls to the floor .
bob tom bows before he turns to joe and using one wing as an impromptu cloak waves the boy forward .
give way to the prince .
joe pauses alongside the momentarily leaderless crowd , which is beginning to wriggle on the floor like maggots on a trash can lid , before he hurries toward the opening at the far end of the station .
bob tom stands guard until joe is safe inside the tunnel , then he walks over to an over stuffed chair , which looks to have begun its life in the lobby of the black hole hotel .
when bob tom smacks it with his rod a mushroom cloud of dust arises .
i claim my throne .
any subject who dares touch my throne forfeits his life .
i will return aneigh with food , freedom and foolery .
as bob tom flies toward the tunnel opening , he murmurs , awright , boys and girls .
shows over .
git up and git back to your kind words and deeds .
thank ya all for your attention and homage .
i could git used to it , but king damalls got to carry on the quest .
as bob tom flies deeper into ancient inky tube , he spies joe ahead running alongside the moldy curved wall at full tilt .
he languidly beats his wings until he catches up , damall , noby .
i never had no one beat a retreat from one of my performances , a right good un i might add , as fast as you done .
youre crazier than they are .
i certainly hope so , noby .
i surely do .
when they come to the door that jiffy has described , they are not surprised to find it locked .
joe rattles the lever handle before pounding on the door itself .
nothing happens .
move aside , son .
the old man pushes down with all of his weight onto the handle .
when the door remains closed , he puts his shoulder to it and pushes until his groans begin to sound like a locomotive leaving a station .
the ancient steel door finally moves a half centimeter in its rust covered frame .
the old winger grunts in approval .
wheres your cue card , noby ?
joe keys his mypod and listens to what jiffy has entered .
he whispers under his breath , falters and then tries again .
when he thinks he has it , he puts his mouth close to the edge of the door and shouts in garbled arabic .
joe and bob tom hold their breaths , but hear nothing .
joe repeats his lines in a voice so loud that he is afraid that the syllables will be distorted beyond meaning .
they wait another minute in silence before bob tom bangs on the door with his mallet sized fist .
after a dozen strikes that grow to two dozen with their echoes , he gets a small battered lumenaid from his pak and methodically drags the narrow beam over the seams where the door fits into its frame .
what are you doing ?
seein if theres a good place to go fishin .
he inspects the entire perimeter of the door looking for a vulnerability .
after a minute he returns the intense light to study a spot on the rusted edge of the door about thirty centimeters above the door handle .
and i think i mighta found one .
here , boy , hold this .
while joe trains the narrow beam of halogen , the old man uses his knife to scrape away at the scabby section of steel .
when he is satisfied with the slight gap he has made , he pulls three meters of line off his fishing reel and ties the ends together .
he hands his knife to joe .
wedge it in the crack , but , by god , noby , if you break the tip off my most favorite knife , youll find whatevers left stuck deep in yore gizzard .
are we clear , son ?
joe grins , im just glad were good friends and youve cut me a break .
that could change , little un , that could change .
while joe carefully pushes on the handle of the knife to make the opening between door and frame as wide as possible , a kneeling bob tom begins threading a loop of fishing line into the crack .
when half of the fishing line is through to the other side , he hums as he works the line down toward the handle .
suddenly , bob toms hands stop .
he whispers , i do believe ive got a nibble .
the river man leans back on his heels as he slowly withdraws the line .
he shows joe the two ends where the loop of line has been cut .
joe leans his mouth close to where the knife is still acting as a wedge .
yoli ?
lavie la ?
my names joe .
im prissis friend .
please , let us in .
my friend , bob tom and i , we want to help .
jiffy said to come .
we got past the zies to get here .
a noise like the buzz of flies trapped behind blinds comes through the crack .
what ?
oh .
the zies .
the ones that hit jiffy on the head and bit prissi on the leg .
as if the mention of the wounds is a magic incantation , the door jerks open and joe and bob tom are studied by a dozen black skinned , weapon holding , rag wearing women .
an out sized woman , whom joe assumes is yoli , holding an out sized staff , which joe assumes may be for more than walking , beckons the two males to come through the doorway .
joe responds immediately , but bob tom , who is still on his knees , hesitates .
joe hears him whisper , damall , man , show some heart .
slowly , the ancient fisherman gets to his feet , but once he is upright , he stands frozen outside the doorway .
not hearing any footsteps behind him , joe turns back .
bob tom waves a hand dismissively , you go on , boy .
i think id better stand guard .
as joe continues to stare at him quizzically , bob tom stutters , just in case them crazy folk get an idea they want to pay homage to prince and king .
when yoli takes a step forward to re extend her invitation , bob tom skips backward like a skittish horse .
joe doesnt even pretend to know what the old winger is up to .
instead , he walks up to the large woman and asks if she is yoli .
after her nod , joe begins his story .
before he is twenty seconds into it , yoli interrupts to tell him to follow her .
she and the woman turn and walk to a narrow door at the far end of the room .
joe looks to bob tom for a cue .
when the river man shrugs , joe follows the africans .
once the room is empty , a less tentative bob tom comes through the doorway and lets it close behind him .
after a minute of slow breathing , bob tom ties one of the strands of fishing line he is still holding into a loop , drops it over the handle of the door and carefully pulls up .
the line either slips off the handle or slides all the way to where the post enters the door more than a dozen times before it finally catches on a slight burr on the ancient metal .
when that happens , bob tom feels vindicated that if he had fished long enough and with enough patience , he would have been able to open the door .
after the fishing , there is little to do .
the old man tries to stay calm , but the thought of somehow being trapped in the room with the women he has just seen keeps returning to him .
the notion of being trapped underground with them tugs at him like briers in a feverish dream .
there is little bob tom fearsnot precipitous heights , not stormy flights , nor surging water , nor winters sharp fingers digging through his campsite bedding .
not bear , nor violent men .
but a group of women , of single purpose , a hydra form of female , has come to spawn a mindless terror in him that cant be calmed .
when that re awakened motion overwhelms him , bob tom bolts from the empty room to the safety of the subways tunnels dank gloom .
he stands at the rail , drenched in shame .
his hands grasp the handrail and twist and turn on the pipe so that flurries of brown and orange flakes drift through the air .
the old mans body is tired .
beyond tired .
he can feel that his courage is fast slipping away .
hes running out of tricks .
his pretence to youth and vigor has cost him dearly .
he thinks that joe is no more than a slight flutter of the curtain away from seeing the shabby truth behind .
he , who has courted danger like a cow eyed swain , knows that however true those old acts were , now , they are no more than artifice and dream .
his sigh echoes in the tunnel .
he has disappointed himself , but he knows that regardless of how badly he feels , that feelings sound would be nothing compared with what would wail from him if blesonus were to learn of his weakness and failure .
he knows that to go further is to fail .
he is just too old for heroics .
but , to quit is to fail completely .
he cant accept that .
he wants and needs a final trick even as he wishes he could be free of the quest .
he want and needs joes admiration and adulation even as he wishes he were sitting on a fallen log , his back against the smooth warm bark of a birch tree with his fishing line dancing along the surface of a spring swollen pool .
the palms of bob toms hands are sore and caked in rust when joe half opens the door .
as the old man brushes his palms against his pants , joe says goodbye to yoli and her friends .
while joe is busy , bob tom clears his face of any evidence of what his heart still feels .
joe grins to the old man as he waves a piece of paper .
ive got it .
weve got iti think .
here .
look .
well , noby , this is mighty pore light for reading .
just tell me what it says .
joe reads the numbers prissi had given to yoli , the same numbers prissi herself had found in al burgeys freezer .
what do you think ?
it has to be the co ordinates for where shes gone .
dont you think ?
what else can it be ?
i dont know , son .
lets get out of this hellhole and sit in the sun for a spell and parse and ponder it .
the climb out is not much easier than their descent , but it is safer .
yoli has given joe directions to another egress that brings them to the surface without contact with the zies .
however , after joe climbs out of the fireplace , steps through a blizzard of blue jay feathers and looks out the window , he realizes that whatever happens next is going to be easier for bob tom than himself since the street below is underwater .
when joe turns back to tell bob tom about the water , he can hear the old man wheeze and groan as he clambers up the ladder .
as joe sits by the entrance waiting for his friend and listening to his efforts , he worries about the toll their search is taking on the ancient riverman .
when bob tom approaches the light at the top of the ladder , he stops so that he can catch his breath .
he hangs on with one hand and uses the sleeve of his shirt to wipe the rivulets of sweat from his face .
after he feels that he has recovered enough to be presentable , he finishes his climb .
he emerges from the chimney with a happier smile on his face than is present in his eyes .
nothing better than a little exercise , huh , noby ?
keeps us fit .
joe shakes his head , i dont like being underground .
i didnt like it with the greenlanders and i didnt like it down there .
how did you live inside that mountain for years ?
bob toms smile gets pinched off , it warnt nothin .
i figure its just like livin in a basement , only a little deeper .
to change topics , bob tom says , tell me about that paper .
iffen its co ordinates , where does it put her ?
did you check ?
no , i wanted to wait for you .
mighty gracious .
well , plug em in and see what comes up .
joe keys the mypod .
when the map fills the screen , he studies it for a minute , but when he doesnt recognize any landmarks , he reverses the zoom .
he has to scale it down twice before bob tom , who is leaning over his shoulder , exclaims , damall , noby , its all the way out on long island .
that aint gon na be much fun .
bob tom , it cant be as far as weve already come , can it ?
no , son , it aint as far , but if memory serves , all you had to do to get where we are is sit on your butt and let me and them damfool pirates and the mighty hudson carry you along .
getting to where you think we orta be getting next is gon na be just a tad more difficult .
at least for you .
if you dont mind , boy , bob tom damalls gon na take a wee minute and be wistful .
what about ?
about how my life woulda been a site easier lately iffen youd a gotten yourself a pair of wings instead of a poor attitude .
joe has a rejoinder on the tip of his tongue , but he restrains himself as he tries to imagine what will be required for him to get to the eastern end of long island .
bob tom can flyeven if he has to make frequent stops .
but , what joe doesnt have an easy answer for is how he is going to go where he wants to be .
from what he has seen on the mypod , where prissi has gone is beyond the pale .
he wont be catching a cab .
from what he knows , that area is nothing but impenetrable growth and disease .
but if that is where prissi is , he has no doubt that is where they have to go .
lets rent a car and stop when we cant go any further .
what are we gon na do with a dang car ?
i caint drive .
can you ?
joe considers telling the truth , but decides that that makes little sense .
sure .
i can drive .
you own yourself a license ?
no .
im too young .
well , i dont either .
once i got my wings , i never felt the need .
without a license , no one will rent us a car .
im not sure , even with your new looks , that you should be in a public place much , so busses are out .
im thinking this here may be the end of the road for us , noby .
at least , for the two of us .
im thinking you orta go home , noby .
see your folks .
you done what you could do .
there aint nothing more for you to do .
i can go off my own and do a little more lookin around while you go git yore wings .
before we decide that , can we just get out of here ?
and how you wan na do that ?
me pullin you again ?
joe barely keeps his anger under control .
he doesnt like feeling helpless , but he finds he is having a harder time taking bob toms help .
no .
that waters not much more than a meter deep .
i can slog through it .
you go ahead .
ill meet you on the levee .
forty minutes later , as bob tom pulls the soaking joe from the water , they begin to argue .
their disagreement over what to do continues as they walk north on the levee wall and make their way onto the queensboro bridge .
after a long , drawn out debate , a discussion that is loud enough to draw the attention of the occasional passersby as they walk across the ancient rickety span , joe still refuses to turn back .
when they finally get to the queens side of the river , bob toms chest is heaving from his exertions .
joe cant tell if his friend is serious or just doing more acting when he snarls , now , what ?
were gon na go somewhere where no ones gon na take us ?
that dont mean much to me cuz i can fly .
but it certainly puts a cramp on what you can do .
now , theres a decision to be made .
shes yore friend , but the way you are , yore bout as helpful as a hound dog in a hurricane .
caint be helped .
we done what we could , but now it aint we no moe , its me .
that little un needs help and i mean to help her .
and i caint help her if i got someone helpless holdin me back .
joe starts to argue , but bob tom ignores him as he puts his rod in his pak .
bye , noby .
you larned a lot these last days , but you gots lot more to larn .
i hope to see you around the river sometime .
before joe can say anything , bob tom flicks a wave of his hand and he is in the air , beating his wings eastward .
joe is shocked .
he cant believe bob tom has just left him .
the stunned boy watches the old man until he is no more than a dark dot on the horizon however before the dot becomes too small to see , it becomes blurry .
joe takes a deep breath and holds it .
the teeners companion has been gone less than five minutes , but joes chest aches at the lossand at how lost he himself feels .
chapter thirty three flagging and flogging bob toms plan is to fly east until he is out of sight before veering north and west .
hell fly over the northern end of manhattan to the hudson .
his figures hell save his dwindling strength by hitchhiking a ride back to albany on a tug .
after that , he should be rested enough that it wont be a problem to make his way home .
as the old man slowly flaps his wings , he thinks of all the things that will bring him comfort .
hot coal coffee , charred meat , a rising moon breaking through the rivers fog , the skirrying sound of his feet in winter dried weeds .
home and habit .
bob tom sighs , but , suddenly , a bellow , a mix of anger and anguish , explodes from his lungs .
hes choking on his lie .
home wont be home , and there will be no comfort found if he doesnt finish what he has started .
that thought , which he knows to be true , adds an immeasurable weight to the old mans wings .
in the middle of the giant blue bowl of sky , bob tom damall feels as trapped as a mink in one of his snares .
he cries out a second time .
he cants his wings and edges north .
seconds later he is back on an easterly heading .
as his indecision grows , so does the weight of his wings .
the old man wastes energy in the open sky as he slaloms back and forth between the dangerous demands of scylla and charybdis .
chapter thirty four webs with the inexplicability of a wavering top regaining its equilibrium , joshua fflowers pancreas , which had pushed him to the verge of death , suddenly pulls him back from that last border .
where his pancreas leads , his liver and other functions soon follow .
dr. blaine explains to illiya and adaman that there is no scientific reason for this propitious change .
sometimes things of the spirit , be they human or something more spectral , transcend the flesh .
for now , fflowers flesh is weak , but it is stable .
the momentum of fflowers approaching death , like an oil supertanker , had pulled much into its wake .
now , as it changes course , so must much else .
the media expertsmedical , political and businesswho got it wrong are quickly replaced with new experts who explain how and why the old ones misread the algorithms and paradigms , portents and tea leaves .
those at cygnetics , who had been told to take the elevator down , punch pause and wait .
those who had been assured of ascent skulk into the shadows .
fflowers is so little out of the woods that metaphorical leaves , twigs and thorns still cling to him when , to distance himself from all that has gone wrong and to distract himself from all that still must go right , the old man smells the glove , gets the scent and begins tracking down the girl whose image and acts had floated in and out of his drugged dreams and nightmares , conscious , subconscious and conscience .
at the first hurdle he cant get himself over , the impatient patient calls on the friend of his youth .
surprisingly , fflowers catches smarkzy in manhattan at the new york public datatarium .
and , in an even bigger surprise , smarkzy is going there for the exact same reason that had triggered the old mans call .
who is prissi langue ?
and where is she ?
smarkzy has received a cryptic message from an unknown source that his favorite student is in dire trouble .
he has spoken to his friend pequod jones who has confirmed that prissi , despite her initial enthusiasm to do research on fflowers past , has not been to the nypd in several days .
nor has he seen her friend .
when smarkzy questions pequod about the friend , he soon divines from the description that it must be nancy sloan .
a call here , a call there and smarkzy learns what nancy knows about the attacks , beryl langues murder , which has not been in the newz , jack and joshua fflowers possible involvement , and prissis visit to a ghost from the distant past , dicky baudgew .
what smarkzy learns he relays to joshua fflowers , albeit in an edited form .
that old man , still master of the spinnerets despite his weaknesses , begins to spin his web .
jack fflowers had been only slightly reluctant to do as his father first had asked .
deceiving prissi , besting her , appealed to him .
admittedly , his father had been oblique .
the plot , just lightly sketched , was that , with his grandfather ill , there were bound to be seismic changes at cygnetics .
if adaman were not to be swept away in those changes , there were things that needed doing .
jack might be able to help his fathers , and his own , future .
adaman would take care of uncle illiya , but jack needed to neutralize joe .
but , to be able to neutralize his cousin , he first had to be found .
on that first night home on spring break , jack had left the family game room thinking that bird dogging prissi with a bug , in the hope that joe would get in touch with her , was nothing more than a lark .
in the nypd , an hour after he had led the charge through isabels house of spirits , which had felt like such a prank , jack learned that he had become an accomplice to beryl langues murder .
after jack absorbed that knowledge , he , too , lost his father .
when he discovered that prissi had been attacked and ended up in the columbia unitarian hospital , adaman realized that he and his dying father were not the only persons who had an interest in the girl .
adamans first assumption , which made sense given the cards he held , was that illiya was behind the attack .
what he couldnt understand was why the girl was neither abducted nor killed .
it was when he tumbled to the possibility that the attack was about getting something from the girl rather than the girl herself that he decided to alter his plans .
after the fdr attack , adaman told jack to lure prissi to go with him .
adamans plan was to get prissi away from her father and then for jack to use his charms on her to find out what might have been stolen and what she was doing that would be of interest to others .
adaman ordered schecty to have his men find out who else was following prissi .
obviously , that message either had been relayed poorly or had been seriously misunderstood because beryl langue was dead .
now , not only had the girl disappeared , but jack hated him and held him responsible for beryl langues death .
adaman fflowers was in a panic .
when joshua fflowers began to recover , adamans panic turned to pure terror .
if joshua fflowers found out what adaman had tried to do , and adanan suspected that jack might be the one to relay that newz to the old man , joshua would ban him from cygnetics before he disinherited him and make prissi langue an heir .
just like so many of the unbonny princes , adamans plan was unraveling and with it a grand future .
adaman fflowers was a bissell alumnus .
he had been taught the classics and had read his shakespeare .
even though all seemed gray and he knew not which way to turn , he also knew that the worst thing he could be was indecisive .
unsure though he was as to what might be the proper course , he knew had to act .
and , so he did .
chapter thirty five a change in plans bob tom damall admits that he has done many stupid things in his life .
he left the mountains of tennessee instead of staying with kith and kin .
he went to mit instead of tsu .
he studied molecular neurology instead of re forestry .
he worked for bionatics instead of taking the job with opti global .
he left that lucrative job at bionatics instead of lying to the investigators from cdc .
after being black balled and retreating from those wars , instead of clearing his name , he had pursued a ph .
d. in political philosophy at harvard .
he had taken the job at yale instead of ohio state .
it was at yale that he had his epiphany and , once again , recreated himselfas a forest prophet .
then , instead of retreating from the battlefield , when wisdom screamed to do so , he had married rholealy .
he had lived crazily in the cave with those crazy women instead of taking blesonus and going back to tennessee .
he had made a big mistake rescuing noby one , and made a bigger one by abandoning him , and , now , probably , was making the biggest by changing his mind again and going back to find the nave teener .
the decision to turn back , however , isnt made by the old riverman until he is north of poughkeepsie .
he has been leaning over the stern rail on an empty veg barge , staring at the churning water below to distract himself from his guilt , when , abruptly , he sees something in the murky brown froth five meters below his feet which he divines as if it were a scattering of tea leaves .
his fate , maybe inexplicably , but indubitably , is bound to the boys .
seconds later , bob tom is twenty meters in the air and heading southeast toward the connecticut coast .
the message he has received is so powerful that it wont allow him to fly back down the hudson , across the manhattan and out long island .
instead he will make a bee line toward the connecticut coast and cut across long island sound .
he knows where the coordinates they have been given lead and he also knows that joe , somehow , despite the folly , is on his way there .
even as he contemplates the folly of an old man , a tired old man with nascent doubts and resurgent fears , of flying across kilometers of open water , he knows that nobys salvation , as well as his own , depend upon him making that journey .
after the sedentary hours he has spent on the barge , bob toms body feels fresher and stronger than it has since the night before he pulled noby to safety .
his wings beat strong and steady atop the eight knot westerly wind .
however , regardless of how steady those wing beats are , bob toms mind is in turmoil .
the attack of fear outside the africans subway sanctuary caused a crack in that ancient vessel and that crack has spider webbed until the contents , so tightly held inside for years and years , are spilling free .
it has been almost a half century since robert thomas omalley has flown along the connecticut coast .
he is amazed at the changes carved in the shoreline by the rising waters .
he can see that most of what had been called the gold coast is gone .
he assumes that those expensive homes were too expensive to preserve .
the new coastline from darien to bridgeport is mostly barren sand and rock with an outline of scrub .
from two hundred meters , bob tom can see that this section of the almost unbroken band of shoreline sprawl , which once ran from delaware to north of boston , has moved twenty kilometers inland .
the coast hugging sections of that once venerable highway of progress , route 95 , has been chopped out and stitched back together beyond the twenty kilometer limit .
looking at the ruins , the geri winger can see some of that civilization had been snatched back by rising waters , and some had been flattened by federal fiat and bulldozers , but most simply had crumbled away from economic desuetude and neglect .
in new haven , even though the cranes and tank farms , which he remembers covering much of the harbor like yellow and silver algae , are gone , the high hills which shape the housatonic are still occupied .
when the old winger swivels his head to study the divided community high on the hills , their turrets and towers remind him of buda and pest .
when he realizes what he is seeing , the old man bursts into laughter .
the elis .
arrogant elis .
yale university , intellectual mother of presidents and their pawns , though defeated , has refused to surrender .
new haven , sacred new haven , might have fallen to the rising seas .
yale , however , has taken her billions and made a tactical retreat to higher ground .
bob toms laugh nearly carries across the river .
when he gets to bluff point , bob tom lands and rests , drinks and eats .
ever since he left joe in queens and made his escape , he has felt that he is doomed .
how his fate will manifest itself he doesnt know , but a deep part of him , a part different from and far wiser than his intellect , knows his life is done .
surprisingly , that knowledge does not weigh as heavily on him as he would have guessed .
although there have been many moments of joy in the adirondacks , on , above , and alongside her rivers and mountains , those singular moments have been outweighed by a profound loneliness , a recognition of his life as caricature , a sense of the emptiness of his acts .
after the winger catches his breath and gets back into the air , he looks out over the sun silvered water and recalls when and where he was , and how he felt when he made the decision to enter the verdant half world of the mountains as a ph.d. burdened reincarnation of tolkiens jolly woodsman , tom bombadil .
he had been grading term papers for his graduate seminar , machiavelli in a non machiavellian world .
in a way , the seminar had been no more than a retelling of the tale of the serpent in the garden .
is evil irresistibly attractive ?
all nine of his students , the brightest master students in yales political science department , had argued that evil could be resisted .
he had finished his grading , stacked the papers alphabetically , and , then , reread the conclusion of each student .
when he finished he knew that one of two things must be true .
either he was a miserable failure as a teacher or he was a miserable failure as a citizen of the world .
robert omalley had pondered which might be the correct answer .
some of that pondering had been done in long walks along the same coastline he has just flown over .
he can remember walking barefooted in the sand at hawks nest beach with his wings tightly furled to keep the turbulent off shore breezes from flaring them .
when the thirty eight year old professor had decided that he was the owner of a scarred soul without ever having had life wound it , he resigned from yale .
deciding that truth was more apt to be found in fiction , he spent the summer reading novels in a new hampshire cabin perilously perched on an outcrop looking out at the north face of cannon mountain .
summer ended , but he kept reading leaves fell and he read on .
finally at first snow , he stopped .
he looked around at the stacks and mounds of books and decided that , of all the stories which he had read , of all the characters with whom he had become acquainted , tom bombadil , a minor character in the lord of the ring , was the most attractive .
some critics , and tolkien himself , had indicated that bombadil was god like , a beginner , a first .
although robert thomas omalley had plenty of ego , he certainly didnt think that he was god like however if the ring represented power , then he wanted to be like bombadil , who was not affected by the ring .
over the next months , the former professor read tolkiens poems about bombadil as well as books on forest craft , fishing and hunting .
he went on two inward unbound retreats and played professor higgins to his own un pygmalion .
then , like thoreau , he went to the woods to live deliberately , to front only the essential facts of life , to see if he could learn what it could teach and not , when he came to die , discover that he had not lived .
now , decades later , he regrets his efforts .
in a sense he has not lived .
he had learned the ways of fish and fowl , but had learned little about himself .
he had been a well met hale fellow to his own soul .
blustery , boisterous , always positive , he had whistled his ways through the years .
until now .
as bob tom continues east along the connecticut coast and the waters of long island sound , he increases his altitude .
he finally stops climbing at five hundred meters .
a half century ago he could fly long distances at a thousand meters .
with his skinwings , that altitude gave him the longest distance at the greatest economy of energy .
now , the effort to get to half that height far exceeds the energy savings once he has arrived .
his wings have changed shape as he has aged , the same as his legs and hands , and that alteration in the shape of the leathery air foil has had big consequences in the efficiency with which way he can fly .
the reasons bob tom has flown so much higher than he has in years are two foldknowledge and insurance .
he wants to study the far off long island shoreline so that he can pick the closest point as a destination .
and , he wants to give himself as much time as possible when things go wrongwhich he knows will happen .
from higher in the air , he can see farther and have a better chance of spotting a boat to land on when his wings , or will , fail .
however , despite any precautions he may take , deep in his bones , the old man knows that this is going to be a one way flight .
he thinks how voltaire was right when he had old dr. pangloss stay home and tend his garden .
that he would like to do , but the part of him he has spent years creating wont let him .
an hour later , far ahead off to his right , bob tom sees what he realizes must be fisher island .
his decides to fly to the island and rest before he continues on to long island .
for more than a century fishers had been a summer home and refuge for those too rich or well bred to go to marthas vineyard .
when the worlds waters began to rise , many of those fisher families lost their homes .
much like the victorious but spent british after world war two who , with a certain defeated grace , had allowed their colonies to go , so , too , had the denizens of fishers mostly eschewed any rear guard action .
instead of fighting for what once was a sanctuary , a preserve of wealth , they had accepted their losses to a changed world .
as bob tom approaches the sanctuary , where he once had spent an uncomfortable weekend at the invitation of a fourth generation yale legacy undergraduate , he is surprised at just how small the island has become .
few remaining houses .
no landing strip that he can see .
he wonders if there are summer nights now where there is no fourth for bridge .
by the time he crosses onto the island , the old winger is flying at fifty meters .
it seems to him to be much less green that his memories .
the land is mostly grays and browns except for what he sees are the bleached bones of thousands upon thousands of deer skeletons .
as he comes over a small ridge , bob tom looks down on a herd of emaciated deer drinking from buckland pond .
it hits the old man how a life without enemies can spell death .
other than the last years with rholealy , his enemies have been confined to bear and briers .
he understands how the lack of struggle has weakened him .
bob tom flies past the herd until he comes to a rocky spine where he lands .
he stays twenty minutes catching his breath and fighting off a deprezzion which is enveloping him like dense fog .
the second leg of his flight across long island sound , despite failing light and stiff winds blowing out of the southwest , goes smoothly .
when he lands on the desolate coast of long islands north shore , he is tired , but not spent .
his reckoning tells him that he has almost another thirty kilometers to fly .
with dusk descending and anticipating an expanse of scrub broken only by ponds , streams and swamps , bob tom decides that it makes sense for him to spend the night on the beach .
the old man walks the wrack line looking for an indentation in the sand which will provide some shelter .
after he finds one that is suitable , he collects sticks and wedges them into the ground to make a frame over which he drapes dried sea grass and ribbons of bleached kelp .
although it takes more time than he normally would allocate for so temporary a shelter , the old man doesnt begrudge himself his efforts .
it passes the time and , to a small extent , keeps his thoughts at bay .
when his home is ready , the thoughts return .
he is dying .
he accepts that .
that knowledge is not news .
what is different is the plaintive acquiescence .
that acceptance is new .
and that is wrong .
his origins are in a place where living demands a tenacious grip .
for more than eighty years he has known , and accepted that .
he has held tight with an acrobats hands , hard callused and sinewy muscled hands .
until now .
the old man waves his hands at the encroaching dark to disperse his thoughts .
he gathers driftwood , hums , sings , lights his fire and feels a long lost joy at watching driftwood flames colored bright by the oceans minerals .
when his first wood begins to die , he gathers more and more again until his profligate flames light the shore around him and add a golden tint to the pair of eyes watching him through dense scrub .
finally , as the moon begins its fall and his sadness has spent itself , the old man drifts into sleep .
as the rasp and hack of the wingers breathing breaks across the sibilance of waves lapping on sand , his watcher , mortos , builds his own gossamer dreams .
bob toms body wakes refreshed , but his soul remains fatigued .
while he chews his leathery breakfast , he paces the shore .
he feels like an ancient agitated agamemnon girding for war .
it is as he nears a thustle of rose hips that bob tom sees the hoof prints .
no one hunts for decades without being watched himself , but damalls spirits sink even lower when he realizes that he has been surveyed from less than twenty meters from where he has supped , sung and slept .
if he is going into battle , which is what his nerve endings think , then it is not reassuring to know that he is so ill prepared .
the old man tells himself that if he had not built the crackling fire so high , and if the waves had not been breaking on the shore , he would have heard the horse .
bob tom is in the air flying over sinuous streams and tussocks of scrub when he claps his hands in sudden awareness .
the horse had not been watching him .
it , like bob tom , himself , had been sleeping .
no horse ever stands in place for any length of time unless it is sleeping .
as soon as the thought comes to him , some of the rivermans feelings of unease fall away as if they were no more than a pinion torn free by a huffing wind .
despite feeling lighter and being intrigued with a landscape , which , if it were further south , he was sure could be called bayou , bob tom pays close attention to where he will land if something should go wrong .
the ancient wingers shoulders ache from yesterdays work and his heart is racing as he nears the coordinates the africans had given to joe .
it comes to him that he has assumed that his destination would be something recognizable , such as an abandoned building , dock or a meadow .
but , as far as he can see , there is nothing but a uniform of green decorated with shiny ribbons and medals of water .
the old man circles twice over his destination without seeing a place to land .
as he comes around a third time , he thinks that the african women have deceived joe and himself .
why wouldnt they ?
why would they trust two males ?
two strangers ?
the africans would have thought that if the girl really needed help , then she would have contacted them herself .
bob tom realizes that he and joe have been sent on a wild goose chase .
his anger at being deceived only lasts a moment .
almost immediately he is relieved .
he is not going into battle today .
he has tried to help the girl .
he has done what he could .
no longer is he duty bound .
he can fly home to his simple life .
he can see blesonus and need not feel shame .
something about the sleeping horse has continued to bother bob tom as he flies .
it is not until he has crimped his wings so that he can land on a small weedy spur of land jutting into a five meter wide stream that it comes to him that the horse might have stayed still , not because it was asleep , but because a rider had held it still .
a rider on horseback is something the old man hasnt seen in years .
something about a watcher on horseback , something he thinks may tie into hobbit travels through middle earth , makes bob tom hold his breath as he tries to look through the thick foliage which surrounds him .
too tired to fly , too hinky to stay on the small outcropping , bob tom carefully slides down the two meter embankment and begins walking down the ankle deep clear water of the stream .
he hasnt walked more than a half klik when something flies out of the woods above him and drops over his head .
before he understands what has happened , a second lasso shooting out from the other side of the bank secures him .
at first , the ancient riverman struggles to free himself , but those efforts cause the tips of his wings to get wet .
after a few seconds , the fatalistic riverman calms himself and waits for his captors to show themselves .
chapter thirty six merrily , we roll along joe has to ask a half dozen people walking the streets of queens before he gets the answer he is looking for .
that answer , a quick stop at an atm , and a brisk half hour walk bring him to the razrs edge .
joe takes his time looking at the solar powered scooters .
his initial inclination , one guided by the fact that he is a fifteen year old boy , is to buy the thermest scooter in the store , a silver and black spd z , but , then , a newly wakened maturity , something joe is willing to attribute to bob tom , takes over .
he goes to the faq screen and begins to key in his questions .
joe has narrowed his choice down to an e raz r , a slow , heavy , solidly built scooter with an extra power pak that is capable of going forty kilos miles on a single charge , when a door at the back of the shop explodes open and a bandy legged gnomish man scuttles past the secu cams toward joe .
watcha bizness ?
it takes joe a minute to decrypt the powerfully built mans question .
joe outlines his needssturdy , dependable , capable of going long distances .
as joe explains what he is looking for , the little man begins to shake his head , and , then , begins muttering , no , no .
finally , like a compressed spring suddenly released , the mans short , thick arms fly up past his head and he yells , pizza gabbage .
no , no , not this crap .
no .
you wait .
you dont move .
you hear ?
dont move .
after joe nods , the little man , looking like a fire hydrant on wheels , whirs around and scoots back through the door from which he had emerged .
joe wonders what it is about him that draws loony old men .
when he turns back to the e raz r , he hears a muffled voice through the door , he moved .
goddamighty , i say dont move and he moves .
this is my life ?
something slams behind the wall , the door bursts open and an ancient bicycle explodes through the opening like a racehorse galloping from the starting gate .
the bicycle , with the gnome atop pedaling furiously , speeds toward joe .
just as the teener darts out of its path , the bicycles front wheel comes a meter off the ground .
something that joe thinks is meant to be a battle cry rips the air , the wheel rises even higher until the rider gracefully slides off the set and dismounts .
fuhged that pizza crap .
heahz the horse you wan na ride .
schwinnertakesall 450 .
fastah .
lightah .
strongah .
no crappy battry , just ya legs .
ya god legs , right ?
ya not some kind a teenah weenah , ah ya ?
the gnome takes a second to look joe over .
whad ah ya ?
lem me guess .
hockey , right ?
am i right ?
a surprised joe nods .
i thot so .
big legs , but no kinda stamina .
am i right , am i wrong ?
joe puffs up his chest at the little mans challenge .
i can keep going .
yeah , sure whadevah .
if ya can keep goin like ya say , den dis tings da ting to keep goin on .
garanteed ya legs ah gon na crap out before dis ting does .
when the bike first shot through the door , joe thought it was a ridiculous idea , but now he is reconsidering .
gwan , kick da tires .
give it a spin .
whadever .
yule see .
dis is for you .
journey ya god ahead , dis is definitely for you .
the gnomes words freeze joe .
how can someone hes just met know where he is going ?
whaddya think im stchtupid ?
youre ona island , right ?
cant go far north or south .
west is the city wheahs theahs no need for somethin like dis or a scoodah .
so , whads dat leave ?
up , down , or east .
ya goin east and ya tole me ya need somthin that can go pretty far .
that leaves just one ting as far as i can see , which bein such a short man mebbe you tink aint dat far , but yore goin past da pale .
ya runnin away .
fine , like i shoud care .
get tickbit .
hey , its yore life .
i go plenny of udder stuff to keep me worried .
go , but go on dis bike and youll ged dere and my conscience , which aint any biggern me , will be clear .
joe accepts the sellers explanation , but he worries that if the gnome has figured out his destination so easily , then he may not be the only one .
joe decides that his best defense is to get moving as quickly as possible .
how much ?
dis museum piece ?
a sta 450 ?
da mona lisa of two wheelers ?
you cant pay me whad its worth , and i cant bring myself to sell it ata loss .
how do you know i cant pay you ?
cause runaways , even ones from very well known , very rich families , dont carry dat kinda mool around .
understanding that he is alone in a shop in an area of new york that he doesnt know , with a powerfully built man who seems to know who he is , makes joe wish for bob tom to come striding through the door .
however , rather than show fear , joe feigns anger as he turns toward the door , if you werent going to sell it , then why show it to me .
the gnome darts past joe and blocks the door , how come da rich have evrythinhouses , boats , jewels , art , everythin , but never a sense of humor .
whys dat ?
joe slides to the left with the thought that he will rush the shopkeeper , knock him aside with a shoulder check , and escape through the door .
as if he can hear joes thoughts , the homunculus takes a step away from the door .
i god it .
you cant afford da buy it .
i cant afford to sell it at a loss .
so , that leaves just one option as far as i can see , which bein short mebbe aint .
the man stops talking .
joe waits .
the little man scurries past the boy , grabs the frame of the bike and gives it a push toward joe .
i give id to ya .
no strings .
but , you godda remember a stranger gave ya a gift .
okay ?
you god the kinda mind dat can keep a memry like dat ?
joe freezes for the second time since hes been in the store .
he realizes that it has been days since he has thought of blesonus and all that she had done for him .
a burst of honesty impels joe to say , i dont know .
i dont think ive been too good at it .
im pretty self involved .
selfish .
youre what ?
selfish .
really ?
how old ?
fifteen .
nodda lodda fifteeners even know what selfish is .
gwan .
take it .
and work on da memry .
not knowing what else to do , joe says thank you , but in a voice as thin and fragile as a meissen teacup .
joe is ten minutes and six kliks away before the idea comes to him that the shopkeeper has set him up .
the sta 450 is so distinctive that even in an area with thousands of inhabitants it makes him stand out , and , as he travels farther east and the population dwindles , it will make him stand out even more .
if he tries to minimize his risk by traveling at night , the possibility still exists that the bike has a bug on it .
joe can continue making his way on foot , but in just the short time he has been aboard , he has become enamored of the speed and comfort of the sta .
the boy tries to think what bob tom might do if he were in the same situation .
after another block of pedaling , he guesses the old man would enjoy the bike , minimize the risk , and have confidence in his ability to handle whatever was going to come his way .
deciding that he is going to emulate the rivermans thinking gives joe a burst of energy , which he transfers to the stas pedals .
in a little over three hours , joe is more than seventy kliks east of the east river .
he has ridden through the shopworn streets of queens and past the overgrown trees and under populated tract homes of the outer suburbs .
as he travels east , the works of man grow smaller and less impressive while natures efforts begin to take on a certain ragged and unkempt majesty .
a motley of ancient trees stretch cloudward with their limbs spread in wide welcome to the masses of birds that fill the air .
despite the air whistling past his ears from the bikes speed , joe still can hear their trillings , an octave higher than the bikes song , as he pedals along , joe watches his shadow race ahead of him .
as the sun falls , joes shadow grows longer and leaner , but its sharp contrast with the world around it fades .
finally , the sun falters and the shadow disappears into the murk of dusk .
the 450 has lights and joe uses them to guess his way along the roads broken surface while he waits for the moon to rise .
after climbing a long hill , which leaves his calves aching and his lungs burning , joe pauses at the crest .
in the time it has taken joe to pedal up the hill , the moon has finally shown up for work .
while he catches his breath , he notices a line of silver outlining the next hill .
he rides for another twenty minutes before he understands what it is he is seeing .
behind the silvery line is an unbroken swatch of purple black .
joe realizes that somehow the silvery thread that rides along the land as far north and south as he can see is a warning the all the land beyond is an uninhabited jungle that has grown up in the fifty years since fires destroyed eastern long island during the ticklish situation .
as joe remembers the story from grade school history , a mutant form of lymes disease had been discovered near the eastern tip of long island near montauk .
the new spirochete proved to be much more virulent than any of the previous forms of lymes .
within a year of discovering the first case , not only had that victim died , but several thousand others also had been laid waste .
when the new york public health services proposed a tick eradication program far more draconian than any of its earlier programs , the noramican epa had prevented the program from going forward because of fears of what the spraying program would do to indigenous wildlife , particularly the millennially endangered miniscule population of piping plovers .
as the matter was being wrangled out in a federal court hundreds of miles away from the danger , another three thousand long islanders died .
when senator stacy clinton bloomberg called for hearings and summoned bionia adams , former green candidate for president and epas chief administrator to testify , adams countered the senators charges of gross incompetence by noting that there were fewer than eight hundred plovers in existence while humans numbered in the billions .
less than a month after that famous exchange , as the annual westerly mistrals blew strong and steady , a series of fires , obviously coordinated , were lighted across the width of long island on a north south line just west of islip .
the fires merged into a single fire which burned out of control for five daysmany said purposely soas a flotilla of boats from rhode island , connecticut and the new york metropolitan area rescued more than three hundred thousand inhabitants .
nearly ten thousand died in the fire , but within a year , no one was dying of the new version of lymes .
in the fires aftermath , the federal government declared the area an nvns refuge .
westegg preserve became the only no visitor no stewardship refuge on the east coast north of virginia .
in order to minimize the chance that any surviving ticks would infect or infiltrate the western half of long island and the country beyond , a fifty meter high laser curtain had been installed along the western end of the burned territory .
the goal was that any tick bearing animal trying to pass through the curtain would be incinerated by the laser .
although joe has known of the barrier , he hadnt considered that he was going to have to get past the lasers in order to find his friend .
that thought stymies him for a minute and makes him wish , not for the first time , that bob tom was still his traveling partner .
the old mans absence , the darkness on all sides of him , the obstacle ahead and a sudden sharp hunger begin washing over him like torrents of rain .
joe finds it hard to keep pointing his small beam of light into the chilly night .
at the bottom of the hill he slows his pedaling so that he can better look for a place to spend the night .
it takes the teener twenty more minutes , and his search brings him within a klik of the laser fence , before he discovers a narrow path carved into the wall of kudzu which borders the road .
using the bikes headlight to guide him , joe follows the paths twists and turns until he comes to an opening , perhaps ten meters in diameter that is carpeted in tall grass .
joe centers himself in the meadow before he tromps down the grasses to make a campsite .
when he finishes with his rude resting place , he rustles through the food in his pak and in the small camping bag suspended from the bikes handlebars and wonders what he had been thinking when he had dashed into a qwikee on the eastern edge of queens to provision himself .
after a day that started with him being towed across the hudson river just as the sun was rising , traversing manhattan , both above and underground , and bicycling for hours , he wants meat and potatoes or rice , or , better , mounds of both .
instead , he has high school happy foodnougie nuggets , swirls kurls , apple chips , and warm zzzoltkola .
as he lays propped on an elbow eating what would have been fun at a bonfire before bissell day , joe stares at the million stars in the sky above .
unlike the ancients , he sees chickens and rib roasts rather than bears , belts and archers .
joe is lost in his food reveries when he suddenly realizes that in addition to the soughing boughs , the rustle of leaves , and the flutelike sound of some gregarious night bird , he is hearing a popping sound that reminds him of bacon frying on a camp stove .
occasionally , along with the unidentified noise comes the slightest whiff of a familiar but hard to identify smell .
joe has finished his meal and has told his grousing stomach that what it holds is far better than twigs and berries in an adirondack cave .
leaning back on a elbow , the boy vacillates between giving in to that part of him calling for sleep or obeying the part urging vigilance against whatever unseen dangers that may lurk nearby .
joe opts for the former and is nearly asleep when it comes to him that the popping sound and faint smell come from animals being incinerated by the lasers .
that thought delays joes sleep until the birds themselves grow quiet .
the boy awakes before the sun itself .
he lies on his side with his knees drawn to his chest and examines his discomforts with a private nurses care .
he is cold , especially a three centimeter wide belt along his back where his shirt has escaped his pants .
he tenses his muscles to trigger a shivering fit .
he is famished .
he pulses his stomach a half dozen times until the organs begin writhing on their own .
his guts churn , but find nothing to grind .
his hands ache from the fists they have made throughout the short hours of sleep .
beyond those aches are the blisters at the base of his fingers from the hours of gripping the stas handlebars .
some things hurt and others are raw , but of all those things , it is the deep muscle aches in his thighs that take pride of place .
joe gently touches the surface of his thighs , but hesitates to do more because of the fear that the slightest movement might cause them to lock up in a cramp that will leave him thrashing on the meadow .
to divert himself from his woes , joe thinks back to the feelings of exhilaration he had had at the end of his first night on the hudson river as the sun , in her slow stately processional , had bleached the sky of ink .
surviving that first night had given him a sense of competency , even maturity , different from anything he had ever felt before .
he had done something dangerous and harrowing with no adult supervision or guidance .
he had escaped the greenlanders .
alone on the hudson , without parents , coach , teacher or servant to rescue him from his mistakes , he had survived .
that satisfying thought leads to the next , one much less reassuring , of being held underwater in the hudsons implacable current .
that thought leads to a question he has been keeping at bay throughout the hours since being abandoned by bob tom .
is he too much the boy and too little the man to help prissi ?
more directly is he nutz ?
that question , as unanswerable as it is , causes him to consider why it is that ever since he has decided to help her that he has been thinking less of prissi langue as a fellow duttonian , a funny fascinating friend , and an irritating unknowable near girlfriend and more of her as a quest , the holy grail , a catalyst for his metamorphosis into something heroic .
in other words , joe tells himself , what he has been doing over the last days is seeking a new joe rather than a lost prissi .
and , that thought leads joe back full circle to the question he has been avoiding does he have what it takes to help his friend ?
joe answers that question with action rather than more thought .
he rolls onto his stomach , draws up his knees and pushes himself upright .
he draws a deep breath as he stares at the bleed of red oozing along at the horizon .
he holds the chilly air inside his lungs in the same way as he had on the hudson .
in less than twenty minutes , joe is sitting on his bicycle staring at a four meter high mesh fence .
the fence , whose bottom is hidden by a pile of leaves and trash dropped by the westerly winds , is about ten meters away .
beyond it , perhaps twenty meters from where the boy balances on the bike , is a double mound .
joe studies the two humps and sees that it disappears into the distance , almost like an immense moles mound .
the nearer mound is much lower than the one behind it and seems to be composed of white almond and globular shapes .
the higher mound behind is a dense puzzle of white sticks .
it takes joe a minute to make sense of what he is seeing .
animals from the east come under the laser screen .
the beam kills them and then burns through the skeleton .
the skulls fall forward to make up the smaller mound and the torsi remain behind .
if , because of a malfunction with the fence , an animal happened to survive , it still would have to climb over the four meter fence to escape .
dismounting his bike , joe walks forward .
as he reaches out to grab the fence he abruptly stops as the thought comes that the fence itself might be electrified .
as he stares through the fine mesh , he sees a scattering of small delicate skeletons on the ground between the laser and fence , which he realizes are the remains of birds .
as joes eyes follow the length of the dead zone until it disappears in the dawns mist , he is overwhelmed at how much life has ended here .
the boy squats down onto the dew drenched , but sere , grass as he tries to come up with a plan for how to get beyond the barrier .
he assumes that prissi was healthy enough to fly over the laser .
he looks up to see the source of danger fifty meters above , but , even as he looks , a low flying wren suddenly stops its flight and begins a corkscrew fall to earth .
joe pushes away any thought of prissis fate matching that of the just fallen bird .
joe sits without insight until he decides to stop thinking like joe and start thinking like bob tom .
as soon as he shifts his focal point , he can envision the old man using his fly rod to test whether the fence itself presents a problem .
moments later , joe has removed his belt , made a noose to secure a wrench from the bikes repair kit and is swinging it toward the fence .
satisfied that the fence isnt electrified , joe tries to work his fingers into the fences fine mesh , but with no success .
the boy backtracks to the woods where he scours around until he finds a dead sapling .
he works the small tree loose from the earths hold , balances it across the bikes handlebars and rides back to the barrier .
joe uses his belt to strap the bicycle to one end of the tree .
he wedges that end into the ground before leaning the other end against the top of the fence .
after testing his improvised ladder , joe begins to shinny his way up the sapling .
when he gets to the top , he straddles the fence before he pulls the tree free from the ground and begins hauling .
when the bottom of the bikes wheels clear the top of the fence , joe carefully reverses his position and that of the sapling so that the bike now is suspended over the ground between the fence and the laser field .
joes butt , the same butt that has held prissis attention during a class period , is beginning to ache from the pressure of the wire fence poking into it .
when joe hurries to lower the bike , he loses his grip on the sapling .
the sta crashes to the ground with the sapling cudgeling it a split second later .
joes bitter swearing continues even as he flips around , dangles his feet and drops to the ground .
either the sta is an exceedingly well made bike or there is power in joes words because , when the teener inspects it , the bike is unharmed .
joe swings his leg over the frame and ignores the cracking sounds as his tires crush bird bones .
he rides south looking for some weakness in the laser curtain .
chapter thirty seven reparation even though her eyes are closed and the room is quiet , prissi knows she isnt alone .
she imagines opening her lids to find jiffy apithy smiling down on her , but in her heart , she knows thats not who she will see .
the thought of jiffy reminds the girl of her feverish time underground and the nightmarish feeling of having the zies bite cleaned and stitched .
now , for a second time , that same dark presence is hovering near .
prissi slightly flexes her muscles , starting with the arch of her feet and working her way up her legs to her torso .
each time she changes her focus , the type of pain and intensity change , but nothing is without its hurt .
when the teener tries to move her wings , she realizes that they are immobilized .
she tries to lift a shoulder , but that , too , seems to be pinned down .
an image of a butterfly , in a glass faced case , wings spread , thorax riding on a silver pin wells over prissi and causes her to mewl .
she thrashes harder to move her wings and when she can not , that sense of being pinioned elides into the desperation of her last seconds in the air before the crash .
her mewls turn to screams , which continue even after cool skin , as soft and smooth as chamois , brushes across her forehead and a raspy whisper tells her a dozen times , and then a dozen more , that she is safe .
prissi knows that even if the whisper tells a truth and she is safe , that she is not sound .
the thought slams her like a sledgehammer when it comes to her that she only thinks her wings are bound when , in fact , they are paralyzed .
sitting across the room , two burning eyes looking out from a frazzle of white hair and a frumple of gray cloth , olewan has watched her daughter come back to earth .
olewan has been expecting the girl to returnbut not so much as a traveler certain to arrive on the landing strip at a specific time , but more as a 18th century trans atlantic voyager who has a modest chance of arriving within a certain span of weeks .
the girl is tenacious .
olewan has spent hours looking at her daughters face and she is sure the girl is not only tenacious , but also bright , competitive , cynical , teachable and impatient , very impatient .
as olewan sits through the hours and lets her body rock in rhythm with the increasingly steadier rise and fall of the girls chest , she thinks of how that litany of words had been used to praise and contemn her so many years before .
as the old woman thinks of who and what she had been three quarters of a century before and of the links between that long ago girl and the girl on the narrow hospital bed across the room , parts of her begin to fissure .
in between the cracks , like a precious mold worming its way through cheese , grow feelings long suppressed .
loss .
and love .
and loss .
and love .
like the double click of a metronome , love and loss kept a beat in olewans head , a beat so insistent that the beat of her own heart increases and over the hours becomes ever less steady even as the girls grows more so .
pride and anger have been olewans sustenance , her daily gruel for so long that the possibility of a menu change has been beyond consideration for decades .
until now , when , with the suddenness of the cherry blossoms arrival , loss and love appear and with them the possibility of driving pride and anger aside .
the girl across the room , of her but not from her , of her but not hers , is destroying what had been inviolate for a half century .
from the sharp shards and bitter ashes of elena howes life is arising a phoenix like desire to love .
to love so truly , to love with such abandon and determination that loves ever present companion , lossthe loss of that love or the one lovedwould make death seem a welcome dream .
with twisted fingers twitching and withered arms forming a formidable x across a part of her that she now finds frightening , olewan sits still while her insides fracture like tempered glass .
holding a crippled hand to her heart , as if that frail claw could contain what is exploding within , olewan shuffles across the room .
she bends over the girl , bends deeper until pain jolts up and down her spine , bends even further so that the tendons at the back of her knees pulse with a white burn , bends more , touches the girls wrist with the dry point of her finger tip and , then , touches her lips , lips that resemble earthworms trapped on hot concrete , to the lips of the girl .
olewan has only backed off three steps before her kiss breaks the spell and the girls eyes flutter , her own lips quiver , and she begins to thrash and scream .
loves black magic at work .
standing stock still , as if afraid of drawing closer , olewan hushes the girl .
she spins lariats of comforting words in the hope that words can heal , but her efforts have no effect .
it isnt until a long minute of watching the girls thrashing and listening to her tortured wails that olewan realizes that her palliative words have been thought and not spoken .
olewan sucks air into her lungs and forces her feet to shuffle forward until she stands over the screaming girl .
she rubs the scorched brow with the back of a walnut sized knuckle and speaks her crackly , grinding words of comfort .
the louder the girl screams and the more violently she fights to be free of her bonds , the surer the old woman grows in the knowledge that she is having her best day in more than a half century .
chapter thirty eight resisting a rest the building where bob tom is imprisoned is a long , narrow , high ceilinged concrete block structure with four massive overhead doors .
he guesses that it might have started its life as a maintenance garage for a highway department .
bob tom is tethered to his stall by a length of chain which circles his neck and passes under his wings before being padlocked to a stanchion .
the shock of what , or who , his captors are is beginning to wear off , even as the shock of being captured keeps growing .
although there is enough slack in his tether to sit or lie down , the winger mostly stands so that his wings arent harmed .
so far , he has counted six different centaurs .
the one who first emerged from the thick foliage alongside the river after lassoing the old man seems to be the leader .
he and bob tom have had several conversations however despite hearing strings of sounds that seem like they could be english , bob tom has understood very little of what the centaur has said .
when he asked if the centaurs had seen a girl with wings , they had become so agitated that he assumed that they had and , somehow , that is important to them .
when he tried to describe joe to find out about his friend , the response is much more subdued .
most of bob toms attention has been taken up with keeping panic at bay .
he has been free for so long .
free to fly .
free to fish .
free to do neither .
free to sleep in his cabin or under a tree .
free to start the day with the idea of hunting , change his mind to gathering hickory nuts and change it again to riding the thermals high above mt .
marcy .
now , he has the freedom to stand or lie down , to walk two meters to the left side of the stall or two meters to the right .
panic sits in the corner of the stall like a rabid badger , all feral teeth and claws , prepared to launch itself at any second .
to keep that savagery at bay , the old man has sung everything from the first six stanzas of yankee doodle dandy to eight of the green partys hymns and herms of life .
he repeats the sixty three states of the union and the fifty six capitals he can remember .
he makes himself frantic with the capitals he can not rememberlike alberta , manitoba and north dakotabut figures that frantic is better than panic .
he takes hundreds of pieces of dried grass from his stall and begins to weave a mat .
he looks at the moles and scars on his hands and tries to see shapes as if they were constellations in the sky .
he smoothes the hairs on his arms , takes a thousand even sized breathes while ignoring the fire eyed watcher in the corner .
night is the worst because there is an eternity between the dark of the stall and the darkness of sleep .
to sleep he must relax , but if he relaxes , the badger will sense it and spring .
the second night of his capture , the old man is half sitting on a mound of straw he has shoved into a corner of the stall .
his wings are spread .
his head is resting against the concrete wall .
his eyes are closed .
he can see blesonus combing out her shiny black hair while sitting on a boulder by the bureas river .
her fingers are strong .
the back of her neck where the hair has been pushed aside is very white .
he starts to step from the shadow of the woods where he has been watching when she reaches down , picks up a shoreline rock that is as big as a baked potato , and holds it in the air above her head .
bob tom waits for her to throw it into the rippling water .
suddenly , there is a scream , an earth shattering scream and his daughter smashes the rock into her face .
bob tom bolts from the woods , bolts from his dream , tears at his tether and smashes his wings against the walls of his prison .
he can not see the badger , but he can feel the wounds the animal makes as it slashes at his legs with its claws and teeth .
he smashes back to free his legs from the attack .
when the spectral attack finally stops , bob toms spirit and two bones in his right foot are broken .
chapter thirty nine maternal instincts a surprised prissi reached out with both hands to take the soup from the boy .
each of the teenerz nodded , but neither spoke .
for prissi , everything still hurt .
even lifting the mug to her lips involved more damaged parts than she could imagine .
prissi sipped and looked into the small coal black eyes and smiled at the boy whose hair reminded her of an ospreys nest .
the boy did something back with his face .
prissi guessed that it might be a smile , too .
prissi paused between sips to say , this is good .
thank you .
after several seconds , the boy said something back .
it took some effort on prissis part to understand that the boy also has said , thank you .
where am i ?
bury .
to be sure that she had understood , prissi repeated , bury ?
the boy nodded and prissi muttered to her soup , thats reassuring .
twenty minutes later prissi was unsure whether to blame the fluids dripping into her , the language barrier between herself and the boy , or just to accept what she thinks she has been told .
a woman who doesnt talk .
horses that do .
a woman who is a mother , but doesnt mother .
a boy who barely can say his name , but wants to know hers .
a place called a bury , but with no prefix like simsbury or shrewsbury .
to give herself time to make some sense of what she had heard , prissi yawned and yawned , then , closed her eyes and evened out her breath until the boy shuffled off .
prissi was adrift in africa when moist rough fingers caressing her wrist woke her .
as soon as the girl opened her eyes , the boy said , your friend is here .
a startled prissi blurted , my friend ?
jiffy ?
bob .
bob ?
whos bob ?
old bob .
bird bob .
i dont know a bird bob .
bird bob your friend .
you can have him .
mortos said .
olewan fix mortos .
you get bird bob .
prissi drifted back to an afternoon at the familys camp in the highlands of eastern burundi .
the winds were blowing so hard the trees were talking .
she had a fever .
not malaria .
something else .
her mother cooled her wrists with alcohol .
that slightly nauseating smell , the jabber of the trees , the heat burning her cheeks like a sunbeam she couldnt escape , her mothers worried sighs sounding like an oscillating fan all floated through her mind , which tried , and failed , to make sense of those disparate threads .
her brain had panicked when it could not bring order to what was going on around and within her .
she had felt like the world was fracturing .
her mother sighing like trees .
the trees talking like the village elders .
cold wrists .
hot face .
nothing making sense .
not thenand , not now .
prissi squeezed her eyes tightly shut and used her fingertips to flick away at the illogical words the inarticulate boy was flinging at her .
the next time prissi woke the room was dark .
when the girl took a deep sigh , sharp pain shot through her torso .
that pain was followed by a disembodied voice from across the room .
you have two broken ribs .
your right ulna has a greenstick fracture .
you have a concussion .
there is blood in your urine , most likely from a bruised kidney .
you were very close to dying .
first , i hoped , now , i know you will live .
you are strong .
you are healing much faster than could be expected .
olewan stared at the girl , who remained silent .
despite the fact that olewan assumed the girls silence meant fear , rejection or dismissal , she still was happy to be in the room .
for too many years , olewan has been aloneexcept for the irritating distraction of the boy .
for years she has looked at her future , her death and done nothing more than shrug .
now , that indifference has changed .
since her clone has been delivered to her in mortos arms , she has been considering the end of her life with very different insights , regrets and hopes .
the girl definitely is her clone .
she has proved that .
but to learn why the girl knew to come to the bury , olewan has had to wait impatiently until the girl became conscious and coherent .
now , that the girl was alert , olewan hoped to have her many questions answered .
it took more than two hoursa time filled with long pauses and tears , with both angry and despairing words , and with many answers before olewans questions stop .
despite the girls insistence , it made no sense to olewan that it would be joshua fflowers trying to harm her .
when prissi tells olewan how she had come to the bury through the kind acts of a crippled man named allen burgey , who she later learned once was called glen laureby , the old woman does not doubt that that seemingly kind act was fathered by a dozen darker motives .
when the teener told her about the crystal pendant laureby had given her and how it matched the one she had found among her mothers treasures , it made the crones heart race with hope .
being given an opportunity to extend her years was a much more beguiling gift now that the girl was in her life .
as the girl watched , olewan scuffled across the floor and put her spidery hands into prissis pak .
it was hard to tell who was more disappointed when the pendants were not to be found .
prissi thought they must have been lost somewhere in the forest where she had crashed .
olewan was sure that mortos had stolen them .
not wanting the girl to see how disappointed she was , but also not ready to break off their visit , olewan said , while you are quiet , let me tell you a story .
the old woman paused as if gathering her thoughts .
you are here because i am here .
you were sent here .
for a reason .
i am an old woman .
my name , olewan , says that .
i have been alone so long that i talk poorly and , i am sure , converse worse .
if you have questions , and you will , they may not be answered .
because i cant , or because i wont .
you are interested in me as i am interested in you .
i am not yours , but you are mine .
before i was olewan , i was elena .
when i was elena , i was bright , but not wise .
much like you , i fear .
now , i am neither .
but , i am alive .
is that a worthy goal ?
to be alive ?
arent all stories about being alive ?
alive with love .
alive and alone .
alive with loss .
alive with death stretching out its dark eager handto pull you across the river .
you have met joshua fflowers .
he , like me , also confused knowledge for wisdom .
many years ago , i was married to joshua fflowers .
that was a mistake , but a worse mistake was that i was wedded to joshua fflowers ideas even more than i was wedded to the man himself .
his idea of winging humans .
his idea of creating a bestiary .
his idea of extending life .
i helped all of his ideas become real .
we grew wings and centaurs and centuries of extra life .
prissi was having a very hard time making sense of what the woman was saying .
with each of the womans words , prissis mind went off if a different direction .
the sense of mental anarchy she had had with the boy and bird bob returned with a vengeance .
you said you were interested in a small company called centsurety .
that is what we did there .
we altered wings and lives and life .
we assured that there would be centaurs and we insured that a human life could be two centuries longer than it had been .
that was our intelligence at playmine and vartan smarkzy with the centaurs and roan winslow , glen laureby and my own with the longevity .
it wasnt until we had accomplished what joshua fflowers had dreamed that we looked up and around long enough to realize that they werent dreams at all , but fevered musings , nightmares , not that different from those that have been holding you .
olewans last words made prissi catch her breath .
that sound held up olewans tale for a moment and allowed prissi to realize that the old womans words and sentences have changed .
the girl understands that there is more than a simple old woman before her .
in the same way that a virulent disease grows into a pandemic , so , too , grew joshua fflowers ego .
what happened to him went beyond hubris into megalomania .
my colleagues and i decided that things had to change , radically change .
we decided to destroy our work even though we knew that after we did that we would have to hide from fflowers wrath for the rest of our lives .
so we did , and so we have .
we destroyed centsurety with fire , faked deaths , and fled .
i came here .
glen laureby first went to india .
the woman who raised you went to africa .
prissis muscles went rigid .
why do i say it that way ?
because it is true .
if you were to see a picture of me at sixteen , you would know that you came from me and not roan winslow .
you are my clone .
my child .
mine .
although it was easier to stay small and silent , prissi pushed the words out past the raw burn at the back of her throat .
how can that be ?
it can be because your mother was the smartest of all of us .
i had ovarian cancer when i was in my thirties .
before my surgery , my eggs were harvested so that joshua fflowers and i could have children , or , in his mind , geniuses , when it was convenient .
when we , the others at centsurety called us trinity , decided to run away from our successes , i took my eggs and left others in their place .
now , what is obvious is that before i had that vengeful idea , roan winslow already had understood that if she were to have some of my eggs , it might act as life insurance , or at least a bargaining tool , if joshua fflowers found heror if i decided to betray her .
the old womans story didnt make sense to prissi .
if she wanted children , why wouldnt she have had her own rather than cloning you .
i dont know .
perhaps , she was infertile .
perhaps , she may have wanted a child who could double as a pawn .
in spite of the pain it brought to her neck muscles , prissi shook her head in denial .
the old woman shook her head in imitation of prissi .
no ?
impossible ?
well , perhaps , she adored me above all others .
the womans snort reminded a horrified prissi of herself .
prissi rasped , i dont believe you .
ive often had the same feeling .
one of the drawbacks of being a scientist is that it makes living our personal lives more complicated because we are so adept at generating alternative hypotheses for how and why things are .
to give herself time to think , prissi looked across the room to the tale teller and asked , who is bird bob ?
do you play chess ?
not very often .
i used to decades ago .
with some intensity .
sometimes , i found it restored me .
now , i feel like i might be playing on multiple boards again .
if that feeling is true , then , bird bob is a piece in a game .
my opponent seems to think that bird bob is powerful enough to checkmate me .
my inclination is to treat him as a pawn .
my understanding is that bird bob seems to consider himself a knight of some sort .
errant .
prissi , who had been staring at the gray glazed ceiling above her , turned her head when she heard a shuffling noise .
ive said too much .
you have much to consider .
youre agitated .
prissi watched the old womans fingers adjust the iv line attached to her .
for some reason , it reminded her of someone tuning a guitar .
sleepdaughter .
despite her best efforts to resist the medicine and the madness flowing in her , within minutes prissis mind was back in the hot red dust of africa .
olewan , too , was wandering in memories from the past , however , knowing that she had much work to do , she didnt linger there for long .
instead , she began to construct a story that would make the girl want to stay with her .
a story that would tell of maternal safety within the bury and mortal danger without .
chapter forty woods and wonts joe pedals south along the laser curtain toward the atlantic ocean .
given that noramica is not renowned for being a country where things work , unlike korea or india , the longer the boy pedals alongside the unending pile of bones without seeing a single break , the more frightened he becomes of the danger hell face on the other side of the fence .
if the government has taken such care maintaining the fence , then it must be for a very good reason .
he envisions riding through a land filled with thousand upon thousands of animals infested with hundreds of ticks , which themselves are infested billions of lymes spirochetes .
kilometers pass and the skeleton mound continues unbroken .
joe has a vision of a woodsy paradise so over populated with wildlife that millions of animals are forced to flee or starve .
yet , the unending scrubland and woods , broken only by the twists of water , suggest that there are not so many animals that they have destroyed the habitat .
to resolve the conflict of how so much animal life has died , yet the habitat appears sustained , the teener comes to the idea that some force might be driving the wild life out of its sanctuary and into the killing fields of the laser curtain .
as he rides along , the boy notices that there seem to be areas where the jumble of bones rises higher .
he guesses that could be used as evidence that something is chasing the animals from the woods .
or , it could be that something in the habitat beyond the curtain , something hidden by the deep foliage from his eyes , such as too much or too little water , or the wrong kind of plant life , could be responsible .
as joe bicycles further south toward the ocean , his pace must slows as the laser curtain passes over more brooks and streams .
at those spots , the air is humid and misty from the steam created where the water passes under the laser .
since joe himself must investigate every body of water to see whether he can ride through or if he has to remove his shoes , roll his pant legs and lift his bike on a shoulder , he takes the time to look for aquatic life .
some is floating on the surface like a piscine ganges , but in the deeper streams , the fish seem to be able to survive running the lasers gauntlet .
as joe approaches the waters of the atlantic , the trees become fewer and exhibit ever more fantastic shapes from their daily battles with the winds .
scrub , vines and rosehips grow denser .
finally , the boy arrives at a beach where westerly winds are pushing meter high gray green waves onto the wrack and rock shore .
the last pole of the laser fence rises from the waters twenty meters out from shore .
joe takes off all of his clothes and packs them into a bundle .
he attaches the bundle to the bike and lifts the bike over his head .
keeping far away from the laser line , joe goads himself into entering the piercing cold water and begins to make his way out past the last pole .
before he is half way there , the surf is past his waist .
the swells push against him like a parade of bullies .
by the time he gets past the end of the laser curtain , the water is slopping across his face .
he has to hop to get his breaths .
despite the fact that his whole body is quaking from the atlantics cold , joes biceps are burning from holding the bike overhead .
the shivering teener makes himself keep going forward until he is sure that he is past the point of danger .
finally , joe turns and angles his way back toward shore .
his teeth are chattering and his limbs are jerking like the first day in a marionette class .
he is so consumed by his bodys attempt to combat the frigid water that he misses a shallow trough in the sea floor and stumbles forward .
instantly , joe is hit by all of the feelings that swept through him when the hudson tried to swallow him up .
but , as soon as the thought of opening his mouth wells up , joe explodes from the water and frantically scrambles toward shore .
when he finally makes it , the first thing he does is put the schwinner on its kick stand .
next , he wrings out his soaking clothes and hangs them out to dry on the frame of the bike .
it is not until those tasks are done , that he squeegees his head , forearms and chest , and , finally , his legs .
his intention is to stand naked until the sea breeze dries him , but his shaking becomes so bad that he decides he has to get dressed .
his pants are on and he has an arm inside his shirt sleeve when he stops himself .
he knows wearing wet clothes is a dangerous idea , maybe even life threatening if his core temperature drops too low however he doesnt think that he can endure being naked much longer .
joe screams stop at the wind , then , a second , later , applies the same command to himself .
he stands stock still as he takes a series of deep breaths .
the shaking becomes a little less violent .
he closes his eyes to see what bob tom would do .
when joe was rescued from the hudson , there was a blanket and fire .
here , he has neither .
when bob tom towed him from the barge to manhattan , he dried off in a marina restroom and half dried his clothes with the hand dryer .
that wont bappen here .
he needs shelter .
joe scans the shore and sees where the wind has carved a shallow dip in a small mound of sand above the wrack line .
he trots over , collects handfuls of dried seaweed , layers his nest , and curls up in the indentation .
he pulls more ribbons of grass on top of himself .
his hidey hole isnt comfortable and it isnt warm , but it is warmer and more comfortable than standing wet and naked in a strong march wind .
after awhile , the shivering stops .
as he waits for his clothes to dry , joe considers how accurate blesonus and bob tom have been when each , individually , told him he was nave .
as he huddles against the elements , two ideas come to him .
a boy with a bike on a beach beyond the pale with no blanket , no matches , little food , no extra clothing and no water is beyond nave .
prissi .
a collage of prissi whispering about romantic love in the waterville library , looping the loop in a clear blue sky , prankish eyes , shadowed eyes , snorts and snarls , andkisses .
kisses that were there and then they werent .
joe realizes that he has come a long way from home looking for someone he doesnt understand .
joe is curled up tight in his hole thinking about prissi and what keeps him bound to her when a noise different from the unceasing skirls of sea and wind intrudes .
rushing , skittering , pounding , howling , squawking , and crying , grow and subside as the winds gusts .
then , the skein of noise grows so loud that the wind cant suppress it .
finally , there is a blur rushing from the woods , across the broken ground and under the laser .
pops , hisses , other sounds that bring tears to joes eyes .
moments later the smell carries to him .
he hides under the grass until he is sure whatever has caused the death flight is gone .
when he finally emerges , the streaks of his tears are deeply outlined by the black of ash .
after his clothes are dry , joe gets dressed and rides the bike along a path parallel to the lasers beams .
his plans to go north until his mypod shows he is on the proper latitude to turn back east .
but , after two hours of slow progress , joe sees an opening in the woods with a beaten trail heading east and , on an impatient whim , takes it .
the narrow path starts out winding through a denseness of brush that grows to twice the boys height .
he enters the path walking alongside his bike , but with the trail being so narrow , he keeps snagging the handle bars in the vines .
after a few minutes , he finds it is easier to ride than walk alongside the bike .
however , riding means that he needs to be constantly alert for low hanging branches .
in the first hour it seems he has to portage across creeks and brooks every five minutes .
that is the bad part the good part is that most of them are less than a half meter deep and none is more than two meters wide .
as frequent as the streams are , so , too , are the numbers of junctions with other paths .
those other paths seem to be much the same as the one which he travels .
their frequency and similarity get joe wondering what has made and maintained these passages .
he is crossing what might be the seventh or eighth ribbon of water when he first notices the hoof print , half again as big as his palm , in the mud of an embankment .
once he sees the first ones , and he shifts some of his attention from the branches overhead to what is beneath his tires , he sees hundreds more .
although joe knows little about horses , he wonders how conducive the habitat he is crossing through can be for horses .
ten minutes later , he stops the schwinner so that he can shut his eyes to help his memory .
he had spent more than two hours riding along the unbroken cairn of bones , but now he cant remember seeing a skeleton as big as that of a horse .
he wonders what force can keep a horse from making the same mistake as thousands of other animals .
after awhile , the land rises , the brush thins out and individual and small stands of trees , ten to twenty meters high , appear .
despite the openness , the trail itself remains obvious .
joe crosses through a meadow of knee high grasses a hundred meters wide .
fifteen minutes later , the land drops back down .
the rivulets of water increase , as does the density of brush .
it is late in the afternoon and time is sliding into shadow .
joe is hungry , but not yet so hungry that he is willing to eat the last of his food .
although the traveler is bone tired , he is hyper alert .
the further he has moved along the path , the thicker the hoof prints have become .
now , he is moving along a path that is little more than churned mud .
the trail , though wider than before , has become so messy that he has stopped riding and begun walking again .
part of joes reason for dismounting is because of how difficult it has become to ride , but another motive is that if something happens , like a remuda galloping down the trail , he wants to be able to leap aside quickly .
he is pushing his bike through a low spot filled with mud the consistency of cookie dough , when he hears sounds .
birds , thousands of birds , have been singing love songs and , like eastern europeans , arguing over territory .
this is different .
more speech like .
but , low and guttural .
rather than reassure the boy that he is not alone in the woods , that safety and sustenance are nearby , the sounds cause the skin on the back of joes neck to prickle .
he moves forward as silently as he can while dividing his attention between looking ahead and looking sideways for a gap in the brush big enough to get himself and the sta off the path .
before he has moved fifteen meters down the trail , joe spies a low break in the undergrowth .
when he stoops , the boy can see that it , too , is a well kept path but one made by and for an animal much smaller than a horse .
joe squats down and makes his way five meters into the tunnel .
it isnt comfortable to stoop down , as he must if he is to make his way , but seeing no hoof prints acts as a great motivator .
the boy turns around and retraces his steps .
while listening carefully , he lowers the seat and handlebars of the bike however when he tries to pull the bike down the path , the handlebars catch .
joe backs out , loosens and twists the bars so that they align with the bikes frame and tries again .
this time the profile of the bike is slim enough that he and it both can move along the trail .
joe moves slowly .
he stops frequently to listen .
an image of huck finn comes to him .
pirates .
the boy has been on the path for less than a quarter hour when it comes to him that he is moving away from the voices .
he squats down on the damp ground to think .
he is confused .
the day before , as he rode his bicycle along the cracked pavement , a feeling of adventure , of derring do , had been inside him , as well the feeling of loss that bob tom had left him .
the night in the woods had been scary , but when the sun rose he had felt a return of courage .
following along the fence to the ocean had given him a sense of accomplishment , but that confidence began to shatter when he stumbled and the water surged over his head .
hearing and smelling the death of the animals being run out of the forest did more damage .
once he entered the woods , each time the trail intersected with another trail , another piece of his courage got left behind .
the deeper he penetrated into the woods , the less sure he became that he could ever make his way back .
now , joe is feeling like a character in a fairy tale , except that instead of marking his trail with kernels of corn , he has been leaving behind dribs and drabs of courage .
in a fairy tale , when a path is longer than the bag of corn is deep , problems , serious problems result .
joe thinks that that he might have very few kernels of courage left .
the sensation of being alone and filled with fear , the same feeling he had had when hiking along the ridge with seka and adrona and , far worse , when he was lost in the bowels of the cave has a fierce grip on him .
joe shudders when he gets the notion that , if he doesnt get moving soon , he will become too afraid to move .
to energize himself , joe makes himself think of what he and bob tom have been doing as an adventure .
other than prissi herself , there cant be anyone else at dutton having ajoe pauses his thinking to be sure that he chooses the most appropriate wordmore eventful spring vacation .
he cottons onto that thoughtthat he is having an interludeand , too soon , will be back in school .
joe pushes the schwinner off the low path and into the woods .
he hides it at the base of a half dozen river birch trees and covers it with a blanket of dried leaves .
he marks the tree next to the ones where he has hidden the bike by scraping away a piece of bark near the base of the trunk .
the teener looks around to memorize his embarkation point as best he can before carefully starting off in the direction of the voices .
as joe crawls and crab walks through the brush , the point from where the voices come shifts around .
the boy hears what he supposes is the clopping of horse hooves .
he considers whether the horses might be domesticated and he is listening to their owners .
he wonders what kind of men would choose to live in the pale .
he tries to imagine what the male equivalent of the greenlander women might be .
the only idea that comes is a woodsy equivalent of the subway zies .
joe becomes so involved with the voices that he forgets to blaze his progress .
when he does remember , he is overwhelmed by a tangle of feelings whose strands include fear , shame , and being out of his depth .
it seems impossible , so soon after getting lost in the greenlanders mountain maze , that for a second time he has forgotten to mark his path .
the chagrined boy whirls around and studies the woods until he spies his last mark .
he quickly retraces his steps and adds two more blazes .
when he is satisfied the trail is well marked , the teener moves back to where he left off .
as he progresses , the land rises and , as it had before when he came across the meadow , the brush thins and the trees seem to grow taller .
as joe approaches the summit of the rise , the voices grow louder but no more intelligible .
just shy of the crest , the cautious adventurer slides down on his belly and stretches forward with his chin bobbing just above the ground .
he slinks forward a meter and , then , another .
poking his head over the ridge , joe spies a ring of woods , mostly free of underbrush , surrounding an open area that he guesses to be a half kilometer wide and twice that long .
joes first thought is that it is another meadow , but a second look tells him that , although there are patches of tall weeds , there also are irregular plats of land which appear to be planted with spring crops .
with the growing shadows , it takes joe a moment to pick out the long low building tucked under the trees off to his left .
a second later it is obvious that the voices he has been hearing are coming from there .
the nervous boy decides that his best plan is to withdraw further into the woods and make his way around to the backside of the building .
joe has gone no more than a quarter of the way when he hears a metallic rattle and then a scrape .
carefully raising his head , joe watches a garage door roll up .
even when the door is fully open , the lowering sun makes it hard to see into the gaping darkness .
several voices are talking at once .
the voices grow louder and a few seconds later , louder again .
suddenly , two men on horseback gallop from the building .
joes breath disappears in shock when he understands that he is seeing something very different from men on horseback .
the two centaurs rear and their front hooves claw at the air .
the larger centaur , whose head is totally bald , reaches down , picks up a large rock and hurls it at the building .
with a resounding boom the rock smashes a metal door and ricochets to the ground .
when the thrower reaches down for a second stone , the other centaur , a smaller , gray haired man with a huge belly atop a dappled gray pony sized body , grabs his arm .
joe thinks the words they are shouting at each other might be , not now , and , then , never .
after a few more seconds , the shouting slows and the decibels drop as suddenly as the rock from the bald centaurs hand .
the two man horses trot off to the far side of the meadow and disappear into the woods .
joe remains paralyzed by what he has witnessed .
he is doubly shocked .
the bigger shock comes from seeing a live man horse .
something intriguing and attractive as a mythic creature is almost unimaginable in the flesh .
even though he has heard geris talk about how flabbergasted their parents or grandparents were when people first began to fledge , joe cant imagine that their amazement could have been of a magnitude equal to his own at what he has just seen .
winging makes sense .
most humans revere freedom more than any god .
wings solved so many ecologic and demographic problems .
winging was mutation for a greater good .
as far as joe can comprehend , a centaur is a mutation strictly for mutations sake .
to the dazed teener , it seems an abomination .
what causes his second shock and makes the first worse is the age and individuality of the centaurs .
joe has seen many imaginings of the mythical creatures .
in those renderings , clean , good looking men with curly hair , rigid spines , golden skin and muscled chests did whatever they did .
the creatures joe has seenfat , bald , wearing raggedy shirts , displaying the normal attributes of being humanare less mythic than just insanely bizarre .
as joe lies on the ground recovering from his shock , he realizes that he is still hearing voices .
keeping so low that he chances a sneeze from his nose being tickled by fallen leaves , joe begins making his way toward the shadows of the dusk wrapped building .
the sun is down , but the moon is still off stage when joe carefully stands up just past the rear corner of the building .
he is struck by how much he can see just from starlight and the faint glow dribbling from the bottom of the three heavily curtained windows .
the boy wishes bob tom were alongside so that he could show off his skill .
no , he corrects himself , not show off .
just show .
joe studies the ground to plot out a safe and silent path .
it occurs to him that it has been several minutes since he has heard any voices .
he wonders if the centaurs could have left the stable while he was working his way around back .
a worse thought comes .
what if the centaurs silence comes from listening for him ?
that thought freezes him .
he has no doubt that the centaurs can be very quiet when they choose .
how else could they get old enough to be bald and gray ?
immobilized , with his captured breath burning his lungs , joe considers why the men horses might become quiet .
awareness of his presence is one .
to divert himself from that thought , joe considers whether the centaurs might be sleeping .
dont horses sleep when the sun goes down ?
given how early in the evening it is and the fact that the stable remains lighted , the notion escapes his grasp .
he wonders if they might be eating , or .
the boy gives up .
he has no idea what a centaur might be doing just after dusk on a fine spring day .
as he stares at the minefield of leaves and limbs that the winter winds have pushed against the back of the building , joe tells himself and repeats it like a mantra that if the centaurs discover him , his escape route is to make it back to the low tunnel from where he emerged .
if he can make it to the tunnel , the space is much too small for a centaur to follow himunless they have weapons of some kind .
joe finds it hard to convince himself that anything human , or half human , ever would be without weapons .
the agitated teener forces himself forward .
a half second later , joes foot snaps a twig and his mouth involuntarily blurts out a word that shakespeare liked and noramican teenerz have long loved .
joe immediately twists his neck toward where he made his last blaze .
his body says bolt , but his mind makes it hold its ground .
an interminable thirty seconds finally pass , but nothing happens .
finally , joe makes himself approach the first window and the faint glow of light which has drawn him like a moth .
through the narrow band of light at the bottom of the curtain , joe sees three centaurs standing around a massive plank table eating what looks to be fried fish and baked potatoes , lots of baked potatoes .
the man horse who joe best can see has four potatoes on a large square wooden plate .
in the middle of the table is a beach ball sized wooden bowl holding a mound of small green apples .
all three of the centaurs are old .
their cheeks are mostly covered with gray , scraggly beards , but where the skin does show , it is red , weathered and wrinkled .
after he notices them , joe fixates on how huge the centaurs hands are .
they look like they have spent years in hard work .
even as joe watches in awe at the most domestic of scenes playing out with the least domestic of actors , he sees just how burdened by age the centaurs are .
their hands move slowly and in ways that appear to be painful .
the centaur nearest to joe keeps raising his back left hoof as if to relieve an ache .
when the centaur most nearly opposite to joe opens his mouth to load it with potato , joe can see that his teeth are mostly just memories .
when he sees those empty gums , it hits the boy how much of a centaurs day must be spent with finding , preparing and eating food .
with only a humans mouth and stomach to feed a horse sized lower body , joe guesses the centaurs must have to eat five or six times a day .
thinking about the centaurs mouth and stomach lead joe to consider what the centaurs whole digestive system might be like , a thought he chooses not to linger on .
it is not until joes cold nose touches the even colder window casing that he realizes how dangerously mesmerized he has been become with the centaurs .
he pulls back in terror .
the foreign world he has been engrossed with instantly loses its power .
with his knees quivering and mind struggling to keep his breath from blurting out of his throat , joe scuttles backward until he feels safe enough to move to the next sliver of pale light .
with cautious step after cautious step , it takes joe more five minutes to get close to the second window .
he is crouching down reaching toward the sill when the world explodes in noise .
the rattled adventurer whirls , runs , trips , falls and surrenders .
as the boy lies on the grass , the thunderous noise that has startled him , resolves itself into wordswords that joe first recognizes as english and , then , identifies as almost assuredly coming from an adirondack riverman named bob tom damall .
despite the urge to run to his friend , caution keeps joe on the ground .
it occurs to him that the yelling he has heard earlier may have been the centaurs arguing about the riverman .
as suddenly as he had begun , bob tom stops his lusty singing of the days and ways of middle earth .
the shell shocked joe slowly gets to his feet and makes his way back toward the stable .
when joe looks through the window he sees his old friend tethered in chains leaning his elbows on the top of a slatted partition .
joes first thought is to alert the riverman to his presence , but , after he hesitates to consider whether there is a way to do that safely , that idea gets pushed aside .
the teener has enough experience to know that bob tom is not good at curbing his enthusiasms .
joe goes through his options .
he can tap on the window and hope that bob tom hears him and the centaurs dont .
if the tapping is successful , then what ?
the old mans chain doesnt look like its long enough to let him get close to the window .
but , even if it is , will bob tom keep quiet as he pulls back the heavy curtains and sees joe ?
with each consideration , the cautious teener thinks its a bigger mistake to knock on the window .
joe spends a couple of more minutes thinking of other variations of how he might alert bob tom before it comes to him that having bob tom know that he is there does nothing for the old mans rescue if he doesnt have a way to free him from his chains .
the boy backs away from the window and makes his way to the third and last narrow bar of light .
as he approaches it , he cant think of anything but the story of goldilocks and the three bears .
its a leap from three beds that are too soft , too hard and just right to his situation , but there is something about sneaking peeks into the three rooms that is making a connection .
joe feels an ache in his thighs when he squats down so that he can see under the bottom of the curtain .
he considers how little hockey has prepared him for a quest .
no beds .
no bears .
just two pot bellied centaurs reading books by the green light of an ancient , battered phosphor lamp .
joe has only been in place for a minute or two before one of the centaurs , dressed in a drab green free lindsay lohan sweatshirt , which bunches on his belly , yawns .
although the yawn only goes on for two seconds before the centaur raises his book to his face to cover it , the black magic is done .
joes yawn is so big that his jaw pops .
he realizes hes been clenching his teeth while hes been spying .
a second yawn splits his face .
as that one finally fades away like a cymbals ring , joe is overwhelmed with exhaustion .
he doesnt want to rescue bob tom or outsmart a posse of centaurs .
he wants to sleep .
with a pillow that smells like his hair when his hair is clean , sheets that smell like soap , a mattress that doesnt sag .
in a warm room .
maybe not at dutton .
maybe not a home .
but , somewhereand before he sleeps he wants to eat three double bulgur burgers with lots of tahini washed down with a huge pom ade .
ten minutes later , the boy lies on a pile of leaves feeling extremely drained , somewhat safe , and absolutely guilty .
after twenty minutes of listening hard and hearing nothing that sounds like humans or horses , joe crawls back out of the tunnel , uncovers the bike and raids its panniers for two of his last three nougie nugget bars .
as the teener eats , the moon rises and the chiaroscuro beauty of the forestscape attracts enough of his attention that some of his fear fades away .
he is still hungry when he finishes his meal , but knows that he has to save the last of his meager supplies for tomorrow .
despite his exhaustion , it takes joe hours to fall asleep .
some of that insomnia comes from the cold seeping through the blanket of leaves he has buried himself in .
some comes from worries that the darkness hides a battalion of ticks coming his way .
the rest comes from shame .
when joe finally does fall asleep , it is a deep one because the bear had snuffled him several times and begun to brush back the blanket of leaves before joe comes awake .
the boys dream clouded blue eyes open to bright yellow ones , a long glistening brown snout and a sachems hoard of teeth .
chapter forty one paternal instincts it has cost him a lot of money , but joshua fflowers has his freedom .
he realizes that to many it might not look like freedom .
after all , the trillionaire is tethered to a hospital bed with a half dozen tubes and , seemingly , a one to one ratio of medical personnel to tubes to tend them .
fflowers health is much better than it was a week ago , but it still is the second worse in his long life .
what he has done is risky , but , as he pondered the decision , he reminded himself that every significant act of his life has involved risk .
dr. blaine , and the rest of the school of doctors sharking about the institute , have insisted that he must stay .
but , the juvenal institute is not where the old man wants to die .
despite the many years of living , the many years of ill health , the horrible boredom of the self absorption that ill health brings , joshua fflowers still , mostly , wants to keep living .
but .
but .
but , if he is going to die , then , he doesnt want it to be in any place other than the airie .
his home provides both a haven and a special opportunity for his death .
risk ?
at his age ?
hell gladly take the risk .
after signing two sets of papersone which funded a major program in mind biology resets with a juvenal institute staff member as the primary researcher and the other which relieved the institute and its staff of any and all liability for the problems which have occurred with the rich mans rejuvenationfflowers prognosis becomes so rosy that the institute can , in good faith and conscience , release him .
fflowers makes his goodbyes , which are somewhat unnecessary since a significant contingent of the institutes regen and rejuve staff is coming with him to the airie .
fflowers is absolutely forbidden to have visitors however , within hours after arriving at the airie , fflowers summons vartan smarkzy .
the old schoolmates spend two hours together .
smarkzy appears to be forthcoming .
he has known prissi langue for less than two years .
after the fact , yes , he can suppose that a part , a small part , of his interest in her was that there was a resemblance to elena fflowers .
however , since he had not known elena at fifteen and his vision is far from what it once was , he wasnt , nor could he be expected to be , struck by the resemblance , like fflowers himself has been .
when smarkzy asks fflowers what he thinks is going on , the trillionaire says that he is persuaded that prissi is a clone of elena .
when the dutton teacher wonders how that is possible , fflowers said because elena is still alive .
when smarkzy asks how he knows that to be true , fflowers answers , because im old , rich and patient .
enough time and money applied to any problem will usually bring an answer .
how long have you known ?
much too long .
where is she ?
where she wants to beaway from me .
africa ?
prissi says that she grew up in africa .
not africa .
she didnt grow up with elena .
if she had , i would know .
in fact , i doubt that elena even knows that she exists .
so how could she be cloned ?
who else would have elenas eggs ?
when fflowers smiles , it makes him look like he is in excruciating pain , you probably were interested in priscilla not because her looks reminded you of elena , but because her behavior reminded you of someone else .
who ?
laurebys old girl friend .
roan ?
roans been dead since the explosion .
fflowers bitter laugh quickly turns into a wracking cough .
vart , who was the smartest person we ever knew ?
smart is all ways .
school smart .
science smart .
street smart .
roan winslow .
gone without a trace .
burned to ashes except for a small fragment of bone and two teeth .
priscillas mother was named nora , an anagram of roan .
elieson .
elide .
to pass over or ignore .
nora elieson emerged from the dust and shadow of africa about thirty five years ago .
ive asked some very goodhistoriansand they tell me that nora elieson has no history .
she was a good wife , a good mother and she died in an accident three years ago .
smarkzy rebuts , an unexpectedly dull third , fourth and fifth act for the smartest person we ever knew .
joshua fflowers shrugs his shoulders and twirks his lips down in answer .
it could be that people change .
for example , beryl langue , a mediocre scientist for decades with the gn , marries nora elieson , and , a decade later has figured out how to grow regenerative wings on guinea hens .
now , it is smarkzys turn to laugh and his laugh , too , degenerates into a cough .
when the old man gets himself under control , he says , some people change .
fflowers leans his head back into his pillows and speaks slowly to the va to adjust the hospital bed .
he seemingly doesnt do a good job with his instructions to the voice activator because the bed fails miserably to execute his commands .
fflowers begins swearing in exasperation .
finally , his hands pat the bed covers until he finds a remote .
still swearing , he pounds on the remote .
like a badly trained dog , the bed refuses to do any of its tricks .
it is not until smarkzy takes the remote , and punches a short sequence of buttons that the bed obeys and fflowers reclines .
having suffered through these kinds of fflowersian misdirections hundreds of times , smarkzy has patiently waited for the question he knows is coming .
which am i ?
smarkzy doesnt hesitate , youve changed .
fflowers waits .
smarkzy holds up a finger , one .
youve known where elena is and you have left her alone .
two .
you seem more interested in understanding prissi than in possessing her .
three .
you are old and sick , but you dont seem overly concerned with finding out whether the scattered knowledge that trinity discovered is coming back together again .
fflowers mutter barely carries to the chair where smarkzy is sitting .
sometimes the blind are allowed to see .
if only for a day .
i am interested in what happens to the girl .
you tell me her father has been killed and that she has disappeared .
so ill ask you what you asked me a couple of minutes ago .
what do you think is going on ?
smarkzy takes his time responding .
i think there is a good chance that she has enemies both because of who she is and because of what she may possess .
if she is important to you , then , whoever controls prissi gains some control over you .
i have many enemies .
and , if , somehow , she possesses a key to bringing trinitys work back into the light , then , almost anyone could be interested .
fflowers sigh disturbs so much fluid in his lungs it sounds like someone thrumming a thick rubber band .
im tired .
can you help me ?
smarkzys eyes grow bright at his old friends request .
i can try .
if trinitys work is awakening , then that must in some way involve elena .
tell me where she is and ill go there to find out if prissi has also made her way there .
fflowers eyes are shut as if he already has abdicated his role .
i cant do that .
for twenty three years , i have known where she is .
there even have been periods when i have known what she was doing .
more than anything i have ever wanted to do , i wanted to go there .
to show myself .
to stand before elenas fury and her despite .
to see the loathing in her eyes .
to hear her tell me of how my pride poisoned us and poisoned her .
i wanted to go before her and stand still long enough to absorb all of her fury until she herself would grow still .
and , when that quiet moment finally came , where her emotions were exhausted , to tell her that since she left , i have been and always will be undone .
vart , i have spent thousands of an old mans dwindling hours imagining myself in the clearing before her door saying , i am undone .
but , i cant go , couldnt go , shouldnt go , wouldnt go .
some harm is sufficient enough .
and if i cant go , then neither can you .
while the fflowers histrionics have been going on , smarkzy wonders if the old man hamming and shamming before him is even the slightest bit aware of his self delusions .
telling himself that he will pay more attention to that later , but to focus now on getting what he wants , he raises the palms of his hands as if he is about to receive a beneficence .
a humble megalomaniac .
a pentitent , ecstatic in his remorse .
when will delusion end ?
when will myth get turned aside for reality , josh ?
the girl needs help , protection .
you may have the means to do that .
if you do nothing , and she is harmed or killed , then , not only do you destroy her , but you destroy elena a second time .
where is she ?
wheres elena ?
while smarkzy has been speaking , joshua fflowers face has remained closed in a barely breathing death mask .
even after smarkzy finishes , fflowers remains as if in last sleep .
i need to know !
finally , the failing mans lips move and three syllables , quiet as a moths flight , drift out , brookhaven .
vartan smarkzy hasnt heard that word in years .
brookhaven national laboratory had been an immense research facility out on long island .
as smarkzy remembers , it had covered hundreds , if not thousands , of acres .
the word that fflowers has spoken would not be enough to find elena .
where ?
building eight .
chapter forty two destruction it had been a day since prissi had been unhooked from her medical ganglia .
after prissi was free , olewan had helped her to sit up and get her feet planted on the floor .
after taking several minutes to gather her strength , finally , she stood , took a step and then another .
at first , she was wobbly .
the first half dozen steps were done with olewans dry twisted fingers holding prissis elbow in a tight grip .
but , after that , using more will than skill , she had managed to walk four times across her room and back by herself .
she finished her walk , eased into her bed and fell deeply asleep .
the next morning after she had finished her breakfast , prissi agreed to go outside with olewan .
half way to the door , prissi winced and slumped .
the old woman grabbed her arm and whispered encouragements , none of which reminded prissi of ms. tronces blandishments .
once they were through the door , the ancient woman let go .
prissi took over steadying herself for several more steps by trailing a hand along the cool walls of the hall .
after getting some confidence , prissi paid less attention to the walls and more to the end of the corridor where muted sunlight painted a pale yellow patch on the floor of the lobby .
that shimmering patch drew prissi forward like a trumpet vine draws hummingbirds .
she suddenly realized just how much of the time since spring break began that she had spent away from the sun .
in africa , the sun was every day .
its presence lifted and lightened the death , poverty and disease that were everywhere .
prissi realized how much she counted on the sun when she saw those weak rays at the end of the hall .
she felt like the days in this place , the days underground in the subway , even the hours spent in the gramercy arms basement and the library had blanched her , like asparagus .
prissi picked up her pace .
her weakness itself seemed to weaken with each step she took .
she was more than half way down the long corridor when the sunlight on the floor was replaced by a pulsing shadow and a thunderous pounding .
prissi came to a sudden stop when olewan grabbed her sleeve .
in here .
olewan snapped a door handle and pushed prissi into a pitch black room .
stay here .
as prissi listened to the old woman shuffle away , she was reminded of lying in bed in her darkened dorm room on sunday mornings at dutton listening to the herd of hungry girls shuffling in their drylons to the dining hall for brunch .
the pounding stopped and shouting began .
after a few seconds , another pounding began , a different pounding , one that prissi could feel through the bottom of her feet .
seconds later , prissi heard glass being smashed .
that was followed by a slapping sound which she recognized as footsteps running down the hall .
hiding in the dark was getting to be too hard .
prissi put a hand in front of her trying to find the door .
as olewan had scuttled toward the door , she had expected to see a furious mortos .
he had been to the bury the day before talking about a hostage , a good friend of the girls , who he would trade for a guarantee from olewan that she would produce twenty four centaur clones and teach mortos how to care for them .
the old scientist had brushed aside the centaurs proposals with the same asperity she would have had for any ridiculous self indulgence .
it wasnt until later , sitting in the shadows looking at her own clone rhythmically raise and lower the worn blanket covering her chest that olewan considered her own self indulgence .
olewan wanted to live .
forever and ever .
with her daughter .
gift from the forgiving gods .
she wanted to live .
she wanted the crystals that would allow her to live .
even before she was close to the door , olewan was screaming at the centaur .
she was sure that mortos had stolen the crystals and her future when he found the girl .
olewans rage , that the leader of the centaurs might be withholding the means for her to live another two hundred years with the girl whose elbow she had just held , caused olewans vision to fracture into faceted images , like an insects , as she approached the door .
it wasnt until her hand , made unsteady from the chemistry of her wrath , reached for the door handle that olewan saw that it was more than just mortos on the other side of the filthy glass of the narrow sidelight to the heavy metal door .
the old crones hand was quaking as her fingers grasped the handle .
she shrieked , what do you want ?
even though mortos low drone was muffled by the door , his message was clear .
want a future .
like humans .
like you .
olewan peered through the door .
give me the crystals .
what ?
what crystals ?
the ones you stole .
didnt steal .
youre the thief .
steal our future .
we have bird bob .
girls friend .
here to trade .
olewan looked at the ancient winger .
the craggy faced man was leaning on a stick .
a worn rope was tied over his shoulders and under his wings before being attached to the neck of portos .
something about the mans face enraged olewan as much as the centaurs lies and demands .
the crystals !
caught up in his own rage , mortos rose up and smashed his front hooves on the cracked concrete in front of the door .
the centaurs back hooves lashed out , and , if bob tom hadnt anticipated what was coming and stumbled sideways , they would have destroyed the riverman .
when mortos realized that he had almost killed what he had come to trade , he let loose with a tangle of noise twisted from strands of rage , frustration and remorse .
the centaur reared up again and battered his hooves against the massive door .
the door dented , but did not give .
from the other side , mortos heard a muffled cry , the crystals .
the crystals .
the centaur didnt have any crystals .
all he had was the old man .
he continued his assault except that his anger had so robbed him of reason that after three or four more strikes against the door , his right hoof slipped off target .
it smashed through the wire reinforced glass of the sidelight and became wedged in a trap of glass and wire .
the centaur reared back in fury at the pain , a move which only served to set his hoof tighter in its trap .
blood streamed from the deep gashes in his fetlock and followed the fault lines of the fractured glass to make a crimson web .
the centaurs torso writhed violently , seemingly willing , like a mink in a trap , to severe its hoof to regain its freedom .
on the other side of the glass , olewan stood frozen in shock except for her eyes which darted from the twisting , jerking hoof to the rivulets of blood to the hundreds of small pieces of tempered glass strewn across the floor like spilled treasure .
after an interminable two seconds , the old woman shrieked , stop !
stop !
in a way that seemed like a command to the hoof itself rather than the centaur .
in an uncanny echo olewan heard , stop !
screamed from beyond the door and also from behind her .
bob toms jerk on his rope was so unexpected by portos , whose attention was riveted on his leaders dilemma , that he staggered forward the two paces the riverman needed .
working himself under the trapped right leg of the centaur , very well aware of the danger the flailing second leg presented , bob tom reached up and wrapped his hands around the bleeding leg and began pushing upward in an attempt to free it .
the groan of bob toms efforts , as he struggled against the weight of the centaurs leg , were drowned out by the anguished sounds the centaur himself was making .
bob tom pushed and strained , but he couldnt quite get mortos leg up high enough to where the hole in the window widened .
after the days of the quest , followed by two days of little water , less food , and an untended broken foot , the riverman could feel his strength quickly fading .
some of the gain bob tom had made getting the leg free was lost when mortos , his own strength flagging from the loss of blood and loss of angers quick burst of energy , had his back legs falter .
bob tom reset his feet and pushed up with all of his might .
the centaurs leg moved a little , but not enough .
help .
the riverman wondered why the centaur he was chained to didnt come to his leaders aid , but portos could do nothing to help .
a decade of arthritis had crippled his shoulders so that his hands could barely reach his mouth to feed himself .
bob tom groaned and shoved , but nothing happened except that the broken edges of glass seemed to cut even more deeply into the horses flesh .
the ancient riverman pushed with what he knew would be his last effort given how badly his knees and arms were shaking .
suddenly , his task became easier .
the leg moved upward , first a centimeter and , then , two more .
bob tom saw a wild haired something , man , boy , simian , on the other side of the blood streaked glass .
another centimeter .
bob tom looked up and saw that another three or four centimeters would be enough .
he took a deep , hopeful breath and pushed , but nothing happened .
too much of his strength was gone .
the anguished howl of the centaur shocked him .
he pushed again .
nothing .
nothing .
then , something .
the leg rose and rose and rose until it was centered in the hole .
he heard a voice scream , now .
a force pushed the wounded hoof back through the window .
bob tom started to scramble sideways to get out of harms way as the dripping red leg came crashing down , but froze when he realized that there were two faces on the other side of the streaked and mottled window .
the wild haired boy had been joined by a wan skinned , fierce faced girl .
chapter forty three death joes startled , convulsive response to its inveigling paws causes the bear to be as afraid as the boy .
each stares at the other through the dawns pink mist with hearts racing and limbs more prepared for flight than fight .
joes lungs are grabbing great gouts of the misty dawn air trying to keep up with his bodys demands for oxygen .
he can hear the bears ragged breathing as well as his own .
that sound reminds him of doormat doorley after doing a dozen sprints down and back on the ice .
except for his heaving chest , joe stays stock still .
although his mind is drowning in adrenaline and epinephrine , he calms a tiny piece of it to try to figure out his next moves .
can he outrun the bear ?
no .
not unless he can get on the larger path with the schwinner .
can he out climb it ?
no .
out think it ?
at the moment , he even doubts that .
his only option seems to be to out wait it .
after two minutes , joes breathing is much slower .
so , too , is the bears .
like joe , it seems to have decided that its best option is to wait to see what the other , larger , animal will do .
as joe waits , he studies the bear while being sure not to catch its gaze .
he thinks that is right .
a direct stare will be seen as a challenge .
a moment later , he is second guessing himself .
failure to look the bear in the eyes could be interpreted as fear and cowardice .
as joe watches , the bear starts shrinking .
its spine , which has been rigid , begins to slump .
its fur , which has been puffed out as if the bear had electrocuted itself , begins to droop .
as the bear shrinks , joe realizes that the animal before him probably is not an adult .
he doesnt know whether that is good or bad news .
a young bear should be less vicious .
a young bears mother , if she were to be close by , could be more so .
joes thinking is drawn sharply back to the creature itself when the yearling opens its mouth wide and displays an impressive array of teeth before making a disturbingly loud noise , but , fortunately , a noise that doesnt quite sound like a growl .
the bear raises a paw to its face and vigorously rubs its snout .
two things come to joe simultaneously .
the first is that the bear has no claws on the paw rubbing its face .
the second is that the bear has just yawned .
within moments , the bear is starting to look less like a life threatening danger and more like something a lower mid girl would bring to dutton to decorate her bed and keep homesickness at bay .
joe lets his hand creep toward his pak .
as the hand crawls across the leaf covered ground , the bear cocks its head , seemingly in anticipation .
even before joes hand makes contact , the bear begins weaving its head back and forth as it sniffs the air .
by the time joe has the pak open and the wrapper off of the last nougie nugget , foam is dripping from ursine jaws .
joe breaks the bar into four pieces .
the first he tosses so that it lands just behind the bear .
a lightning fast snuffle , and even faster jaw snap , and the treat is gone .
joe tosses the second piece five meters behind the bear and the next even farther away .
joe throws the last piece as far as he can , then quickly reaches down , grabs his pak and picks up three rocks .
twenty meters away in the woods , after devouring the last piece , the bear whirls around with a black labs anticipation for the next throw of its stick .
joe throws all three rocks as far as he can .
he aims the first behind the bear , the second he throws to the left and the third even farther to the left .
as the bear lumbers toward the nearest rock , joe uncovers his bike and hurries away as fast as he can .
in a scene that might be from an inane kid vid , joe is squatted down trying to see through the window into the stall where bob tom was being held , when the bear bounds up like the never can quit playing fetch family dog .
when its snout nudges joes shoulder , the startled teener catches a complicated whiff of peanuts , rotten fruit , fish , and nougat .
as soon as the boy reaches into his pak , which is strapped around his waist to see what might be left to give to his new found friend , the bear begins tugging at the pouch with its teeth .
even though far from full grown , the animal has a bears legendary strength .
joe is pulled over .
the bear begins walking backwards and dragging joe with him .
trying to remain calm given his ludicrous position and the noise being made , joe feels along the right side of the bears slobbering jaw , finds the buckle , releases it and rolls away .
the bear makes a noise like a fat mans chortle and lumbers back into the woods with its prize .
it takes joe less than a minute to realize that the stable is empty .
he creeps to its front edge expecting to witness some surreal bucolic scene of centaurs tending their crops , but the open space of interlaced meadow and gardens is empty .
in front of the door from which he had seen the angry centaurs gallop the previous night , joe stares at the ground until he finds what look to be footprints among the hoof prints .
having found what he was looking for , joe races around to the back of the stable , grabs his bike and begins to follow the trail .
as he gets further away from the building , where the earth is less churned , joe finds bob toms prints easier to see .
it takes him several minutes before he solves the puzzle of the small hole that accompanies the old mans prints .
as soon as he understands that bob tom is using a walking stick , joe sees that one foot , the right one , is making a much lighter print in the dust than the left .
joe wonders if his friend is too injured to be able to fly away when joe rescues him .
in the same way as had happened the day before , joe hears the angry guttural voices of the centaurs long before he can see them .
he has been on the centaurs trail for almost an hour .
even though he is no woodsman , the imprint of his friends shoes on the damp trail has been so obvious that joe has been able to pedal with few interruptions other than creek crossings .
the path itself has snaked around a dozen bogs and swamps and smooth surfaced ponds .
standing at the end of the trail , joe can look across a clearing and see a large centaur , whom he doesnt recognize , rearing up and smashing its hooves into the rusty metal door of an immense low lying vine covered building .
the centaurs attack resounds across the clearing .
bob tom is roped to a second , still centaur .
even though the two centaurs seem fully engaged with the doorway of the building and his friend is less than a fifty meters away , joe drifts back into the deeper shadows of the woods .
when the hoof gets caught , joes sympathy moves him forward , but no more than a couple of meters before caution again stays him .
even when bob tom begins to rescue the centaur , joe stays put .
it is not until the man horse finally struggles free , staggers and half falls onto bob tom , that joe explodes from the woods pedaling the schwinner as fast as he can .
the wounded centaur is struggling to get back up , but cant manage it .
bob tom , who is on his hands and knees , also is trying to scramble back onto his feet , but because his wings are splayed and the rope which tethers him to the toothless centaur has been shortened so much it is hard for the old man to get his balance .
joe is less than ten meters from the riverman when the injured centaur makes a violent effort to rise and its blood covered hoof strikes bob tom in the head .
the old man makes a sound that reminds joe of kicking a half deflated soccer ball and collapses , belly down , onto the ground .
joe screams , no !
as he leaps from the bike .
the bike outruns him and smashes into the buildings viny walls before the boy can get himself to the rivermans side .
bob tom has a massive curved wound on the back of his head , which , despite bleeding profusely , isnt bleeding enough to keep joe from seeing crushed white bone .
joe barely has his hands on bob toms skull before the door to the building bursts open and he sees a small ancient , frazzled haired woman scuttle out faster than the boy can imagine any geri moving .
her mobility is explained when a tall , wild haired , raggedy boy follows right behind with one arm pushing the old woman forward .
joes hands snap back from the old mans s head when a third figure , a smaller , bleached out version of prissi , totters out the door walking with the care of a woman who has broken off a heel on her best dress shoes .
something black passes before joes eyes which causes him to think he might be fainting , but an instant later , the teener realizes that he himself has just missed being struck by the panicked flailing of the injured centaur .
joe starts up from his knees , but a noise from bob tom , more like a gargle than a groan , holds him in place .
before joe can decide which friend should be his focus , he hears the geri groaning as she kneels down next to him .
joe looks up to see the wild haired boy and prissi trying to get close enough to the writhing centaur to help him without endangering themselves .
for no reason that joe can fathom , the second centaur continues to stand in a motionless stoicism that reminds joe of geri wingers , too old to fly , waiting for a bi bus .
the old womans crippled fingers fly over and around bob toms wound like a butterfly over a patch of flowering cosmos before settling down on the rivermans skull just past the edges of the wound , boy , leave mortos .
help me get him inside .
the boy looks from the man horse thrashing on the ground to olewan and then back to prissi .
he still hasnt moved when olewan barks her command a second time .
joe has just finished carefully folding bob toms wings against his body when the raggedy boy drops down into a crouch and helps him carefully roll the old man over onto his back so they can carry him .
olewan tells them how she wants the old man lifted when all three of the rescuers realize bob tom is still connected to the immobile centaur by the rope tether .
hurry .
free him .
joe realizes that the knot must be centered on the old mans back between his wing joints .
since he has just gotten the old man onto his back , the teener decides that it will be easier to untie the rope from the centaurs neck .
before he has gone two steps , the wild haired boy pulls an ancient jack knife from a pants pocket and begins hacking at the rope .
joe steals a glance and sees that prissi has an arm on the wounded centaurs shoulder and seems to be telling him something .
the man horse isnt thrashing , but his leg looks horrible with the poultice of blood and mud it has acquired from crashing about .
the rope is cut and the two boys are lifting the old man when the catatonic centaur comes out of its fugue state .
help mortos , he rumbles .
olewan says that shell care for the centaur , but not until she tends to the old man .
his wound is worse .
no .
fix mortos .
not now .
later .
i have to try to help the old man .
no !
mortos first .
fix him !
olewan signals the boys with nervous hands .
pick him up carefully .
ill get the door .
before he has taken two steps , joes hands are so slippery with his friends blood that isnt sure he is going to be able to maintain his grip .
help us !
bellows the centaur .
hurry !
joe loses his grip .
so does the wild haired boy .
but , it isnt from hands made slippery from blood .
in fury at olewans rejection , the second centaur has bolted forward three steps , reared up and brought in forelegs down on bob toms torso .
both boys fall back and the maddened centaur rises up and crashes down on the riverman over and over again until the ground grows so wet that the centaur slips .
it catches itself before falling , pauses to take in what it has done , then , emitting a noise like a hurricanes moan , it lumbers across the clearing and disappears into the woods .
chapter forty four losses the old woman plunges a needle into the centaurs wounded leg while prissi holds his head .
as soon as the painkiller begins doing its work , olewan cuts away the shredded skin and debrades destroyed flesh .
she cauterizes what she can to stop the bleeding .
she stitches flesh and tendons where she can , but mortos enraged thrashing has done so much damage that much of it is irreparable .
as she cuts and sews , the old woman and the centaur mumble words back and forth .
joe is not so far away that he couldnt have heard enough to get the gist of the conversation , but the presence of the live prissi and the dead riverman leave little room in his confused mind for anything else .
every time joe looks at bob toms broken body , he feels like he weighs a thousand kilos .
yet , a second later , when he turns to watch prissi , his spirits rebound .
joe stays beside bob tom , looks from one friend to the other , silently communes with what is left of the old man but says nothing to prissi until she gently places the centaurs head back on the ground .
even then , after having had the time to think of what he wants to say , joes words to prissi are halting .
his throat is choked with grief .
his mind keeps wishing it had its own wings to fly away .
prissi herself is tongue tied .
the wild screams , the rosaries of blood as the horse man thrashed , the sudden inexplicable death of the old man remind her of africa .
dramatic , tragic , incoherent africa .
she pines for it .
the surprise of seeing joe fflowers , not quite boyfriend , obviously steadfast friend , is replaced by revulsion as she looks at the gore around her .
she cant understand why everyone who tries to help her winds up hurt or killed .
prissi stares at the gray haired mess in the mud beneath her and wants to bay at the moon , the sun , and all the mad stars that had to align to fate such a thing .
but , instead of making the loud confused sounds that might slightly reflect what is going on inside her , prissi looks at joe , makes a slight sad smile , and shrugs .
joe isnt even aware that the other boy has left until he returns with a wrinkled roll of blue tarp and two rusty shovels .
joe looks at the boys tools and then at his friends remains .
he tries , but cant imagine bob toms battered body moldering underneath a plot of weeds .
somewhere in the air , somewhere in water is conceivable .
buried in darkness beneath a thick blanket of mud is not .
when joe looks back up at the boy , the boy is staring at prissi .
whats his name ?
prissi raises both her eyebrows and voice in doubt as she says .
fair ?
joe spells out what he thinks she has said , f. a. i. r ?
i think so .
by now the boys head is shifting back and forth as prissi and joe talk .
joe catches his eye and asks , fair , how far is the ocean ?
the boy shifts from foot to foot before spreading his arms until his hands are about a half meter apart .
joe changes tactics , do you have a boat ?
prissi , whose strength is beginning to falter and whose mind has decided to distance itself from what is going on , begins drifting back to the door .
even though joe is talking to him , fair follows behind prissi , like a lamb with its dam .
joe himself wants to follow , but doesnt .
he stays with bob tom because he has to keep the flies from settling on his friend .
even as the teeners hands begin doing their job , his mind is on a rivers current north of albany .
he is brought back to beyond the pale when olewan kicks his foot .
who are you ?
joejoe .
prissis friend .
were at school together .
and him ?
bob tom damall .
another friend .
why are you here ?
to help prissi .
mysome people killed her father and tried to hurt her .
we wanted to help .
how ?
that question stymies joe .
in all the days since he and bob tom were in albany and found out that prissis life was threatened , joe cant remember asking himself that question .
he knows why he wants to help , or thinks he does , but how to help is another matter .
he realizes that somehow he and bob tom just assumed that if they could find prissi they could help her .
now , he doesnt know how his presence helps .
how ?
joe stammers , i dont really know .
prissi thoughtsomeone in my family was after her .
why ?
i dont know .
i dont think prissi knew either .
she met my grandfather , got interested in a company .
olewan interrupts , your grandfather .
whos that ?
with a feeling that is part pride and part shame , joe quietly says , joshua fflowers .
the old womans stare doesnt last two seconds , but it contains more information than joe can process .
olewan puts a finger in joes face .
leave .
do you have a boat ?
leave .
im not leaving without my friends , and i cant take bob tom without a boat .
the old woman wags her hand at joes bike which is lying where it landed after smashing into the wall .
the girl stays .
you leave .
use that .
leave .
the womans imperious and obviously insane behavior reminds joe of rholealy .
as soon as he makes the connection , he wants to hit the woman before him , to rub her face in a plate of food .
to keep from doing either , joe takes two steps back .
he stares at the woman , who has caused his friend to be killed , and without disguising his loathing , shouts , a boat !
joe kneels down , takes the tarp that fair has left and drapes it over bob tom .
once he has done the best he can to keep the flies from his friend , joe stands back up , gives the old woman a challenging glare , and stalks off to the entrance of the building .
dont do that .
leave .
you cant go in there .
joe keeps moving .
when the door closes behind him the womans tirade is cut off .
chapter forty five compromise when prissi walks away from the dead winger , joe , and the wounded centaur , her only thought is to get back to her bed in the quiet , dimly lighted room .
she ignores fair , who is following close behind , in the hope that he will go away .
her hope seems justified when she opens the door , passes through , closes it and it remains closed .
prissi stands over the narrow hospital bed and for the thousandth time ponders the pandoras box she has opened from which so much misery and sorrow has escaped .
she can not fathom how hard the darker fates have had to scheme , finagle and cajole to get joe fflowers out in the middle of nowhere so that his friend can be killed by a catatonic centaur .
prissi tells herself that when she is around there is no sanctuary .
none for her and none for those around her .
she might argue at the injustice , she might complain at her unintended horrors , but she can not wriggle free of the fact that a live prissi means dead family , friends , and , perhaps worst of all , strangerslike the one outside .
prissi is planning what must be done when she hears the door open .
fair comes up close to her before he asks , you stay ?
prissi doesnt know what to say .
you go ?
prissi takes a deep sigh .
you go .
fair reaches into his left pocket , removes his hand , opens it and shows prissi the two lost crystal pendants and offers them to her .
before she can reach out , fair reaches into his other pocket and draws out a closed fist .
despite her intention to show no interest , prissi leans forward .
the girl is stunned when fair opens his hand and reveals a third crystal nestled in his dirty palm .
whatever information the crystals contain , it is now back together for the first time in sixty years .
when prissi told olewan her story , the old woman had not said a word about possessing the final crystal .
as soon as prissi sees what fair holds , and knows whose it must be and how it came to be in fairs hand , the feelings of trust that had begun to bud in her as the geri nursed her back to health immediately disappear .
in an oblique , meandering way that reminded prissi of her father , olewan had suggested that trinity had discovered a way to increase longevity .
it didnt take someone of prissis intelligence and cynicism to understand the lengths people would go to get their hands on that information .
however , knowing that people would want what they thought she might have still did not tell her who was after her .
from the information the african women had been able to extract , prissi knew that those attackers had been sent by a man named schecty however , those two wingers had endured much pain without ever admitting to knowing who schecty was , or who he might be working for .
since the captured wingers had no idea about the attack on the west side levee , prissi had decided that she had two enemies rather than one .
that conclusion had led her to infer that dicky baudgew was one enemy and joshua fflowers was the other .
olewan had told prissi that she was sure the blue jays had to have been sent by joshua fflowers , and from all that olewan had told her of fflowers , the teener could see how olewan herself would be so sure it was her megalomaniac husband .
however , she also wasnt sure whether it even made any difference .
the critical fact was that she was the target , but , so far , it was other people who were paying the price .
fair commands , you stay !
when prissi hesitates , fair jabs his hand with the third crystal toward her .
stay .
prissi only hesitates for a split second before she nods , forces a smile and whispers , as if speaking softly will mitigate her lie , stay .
ill stay .
chapter forty six escape and capture the third time joe asks fair if he has a boat the feral boy slowly nods .
once fair figures out that a boat might mean that bird bobs ferend , who he doesnt like , will leave and the girl will stay , fair nods vigorously .
the boat is an eighty year old bass boat with solar seats to recharge its 40 amp motor .
for decades it had been kept tied up on the shore of a tributary of the carmans river for decades to be used when olewan made her infrequent trips to the outer villages of long island for supplies .
however when the centaurs started to become hostile , olewan had fair drag the boat all the way to the bury to keep it safe .
since the boat hasnt been used for months , the charge on the motor is low .
joes inclination is to start the next stage of his journey right away but after his problems on the hudson , the teener is more attuned to the things that can go wrong with boats .
rather than relying on the accuracy of the charge indicator and hoping that the solar seat panels work , joe drags the boat out of its shed into the sun to begin its recharge .
prissi had been with fair when joe tracked the wild haired boy down to find out about the boat .
as soon as he started to talk about leaving , she had cut him off .
joe thought that she would follow him to find the boat , but she stayed behind .
although the teener is angry at prissis behavior , he focuses on what some new and unfamiliar part of him is telling him is his first dutyto get the remains of bob tom damall off the ground and onto the waters of the world .
as the boat panels collect energy , joe makes a shroud out of the large blue tarp .
he folds edges and tucks in the ends in a way that has him thinking of assembling a huge burrito .
the incongruous thought makes him laugh .
that outlandish noise first horrifies him and , then , makes him wonder if he is going insane .
joe finds a coil of line in the boat which he uses to tie up the package .
once his friends remains are encapsulated in blue plastic , joe finds it easier to use the force necessary to get his friends body into in the boat without worrying about doing further damage .
joe arranges the body so that bob toms head is held in place by the vee of the bow and his legs hang over the first of the boats three thwarts .
by angling the old mans body , more than half of the solar panel seat remains uncovered .
joe figures that if he has prissi sit on the middle thwart with her weight opposite to bob toms , and if he himself sits in the middle of the stern , then the boat should be well balanced .
having bob tom draped the way he has may work once they are on the water , but , when joe tries to pull the boat across the clearing , he cant do it .
changing tactics , he wrestles the rivermans body to the stern , but concludes , even with the weight shift , that he wouldnt be able to pull the boat as far as he must .
the doubts about his sanity and , now , his physical weaknesses , paralyze joe .
he stands motionless in the dappled light of the late morning sun , which is wriggling its way through the canopy , like maggots in meat .
after a motionless while , joe notices the schwinner and feels its tug .
a voice tells him to get on the bike .
go home .
a quest with a fifteen year old hero is a farce , a tragic comedy , a pitiable delusion .
joe stares at the bike and can see himself pedaling across the queensboro bridge while miniature distorted images of the rising buildings of manhattan reflect off the handlebars .
a second later all joe can see are the bikes wheels .
he runs to find fair .
within an hour , the bike had been disassembled and its wheels attached to a long pole and the pole attached underneath the stern of the boat .
joe fashions a harness from the boats painter and finds that with the weight of bob tom in the stern above the wheels he can easily pull the boat along .
joe can understand why someone with the seemingly limited intelligence of fair would be willing to let him have the boat , but he is less sure why the old woman hasnt tried to stop his preparations .
as joe is putting the bicycle wheel carrier together , he gets the idea that the old woman might want to have the boat gone to remove a means of escape from prissi .
he pushes back against that thought since it leads him to another .
in all the time since he and bob tom began their quest , one thought that never had been asked was whether prissi would want their help .
they had just assumed that prissi would come with them .
now , he realizes that they never any real reason for thinking that .
when joe had demanded that prissi leave with him , she had refused even to talk about it .
in fact , within seconds , she had disappeared .
joe decides he must make a second plea , but immediately wonders whether she isnt right to stay .
she may be safer in the middle of nowhere with a crazy lady and slow witted boy than she would be with him .
when the boat is fully charged and both bob tom and the schwinners frame secured , joe studies fair and the crone who stands protectively in front of the door that leads to prissi .
joe says that he must see prissi before he will leave .
the old woman shakes her head gleefully and says that prissi refuses to say goodbye .
joe wants to believe that the old woman is lying , but whether she is or not , the teener decides not to argue .
he makes a decision .
he will go .
he will send bob tom on his journey and then come back for prissi .
joe listens to the old womans directions of how to get to the stream as he slips the harness over his shoulders .
as he begins making his way to the water , joe shakes his head at how ludicrous everything he has done over the last two weeks has become .
from her hiding place in the woods , prissi watches joe get on his way .
it hurts to walk .
she can only imagine how much worse the pain will be if she has to run or fly .
she has taken a vial of painkillers from the operatory , but she desperately hopes her plan succeeds in a way so that she doesnt have to fly .
she estimates that she has something between fifteen and thirty minutes before olewan or fair realizes that she isnt behind the door she has locked .
she knows without a doubt that when fair finds out that she is gone that he will come after her .
but , how fast he can make up for lost time and whether it will be rage or sadness at her betrayal that will motivate him , prissi doesnt know .
she tells herself that the only thing she can do to end the harm she has been bringing to those who cross her path is follow the plan she has devised .
after joe disappears into the woods dragging the boat behind , prissi waits two minutes before following him .
as she walks , she looks to find some weapon she can use to get the boat away from joe .
its her intention to steal the boat , leave joe the bicycle , take the boat down the carman to the atlantic , allow the old winger to find his grave and , then , to end the story .
she passes on a rock shaped like the head of a croquet mallet because it seems too big .
she grabs a dead branch from the low crotch of a hickory tree , but decides that it isnt sturdy enough .
she spies a second stick that looks stout enough , but finds its half rotten .
finally , prissi picks up a baseball sized rock even though she cant conjure up a plan to use it that doesnt frighten her .
throwing the rock and missing her target will leave her weaponless .
throwing and hitting joe , but in the wrong place , could cause to happen what she is trying to prevent .
the winger is so caught up in the inadequacies of her plans that she is around a curve and within joes view before she knows it .
he is stopped by the bank of a fast moving stream that is less than ten seven meters across .
a half skinned log acts as a bridge across the water .
prissi backs away , but it is too late .
joe has seen her .
when joe twists to free his shoulders from the rope harness , he catches a glimmer of silver and red and instantly knows its prissi .
the fatigue he has been feeling in his shoulders from pulling the boat begins to lift .
if prissi has run away from the old woman , then , he must be quick .
he calls her name and tells her to hurry as he unbolts the bicycle wheels from the boat .
the bicycles wheels are off and stowed in the boat and joe is wrestling bob toms weight from the stern to the bow when he looks around for prissi to get her help .
its the twisting of his body that causes the blow to fall on his shoulder rather than its intended target .
before prissi can even think what to do next , joe , recovering with the speed of a hockey player with a put back shot , springs up , and knocks the rock from her hand .
what are you doing ?
are you frutz ?
help me get this thing in the water .
in a response that stuns both joe and prissi , the girl actually does as she is told .
three minutes pass before the boat is in the water and joe and prissi are in the boat .
the boat strains to be free in the turbulent water .
it takes both of prissis hands and joes right hand to steady the boat .
while holding to a cluster of slippery roots jutting from the bank , joe uses his left hand to start the motor .
the ancient piece of equipment keeps starting , whining and stopping .
joe guesses it might have a short .
he is considering what bob tom might do when prissi screams .
joe looks up to see fair pounding down the path with his ancient jack knife opened in his hand .
a freeze frame image of a berserk skateboreder fills joes mind .
go !
go !
when prissi lets go an instant before joe , the bow immediately swings away from the bank .
despite having swamped on the hudson from a boat turned sideways to the current , joe only hesitates for a split second before he , too , lets go .
the bass boat , caught crosswise in the stream , hurtles away .
joe is distracted as fair runs up to the bank and , without any hesitation , starts crashing through the brush alongside the stream bank after them .
joe narrows his focus so that the threat of fair and the threat of the boat capsizing are left behind .
all of his attention is on getting the motor running .
he flicks the starter switch a half dozen times , bangs the cowling and then rattles the frame up and down .
finally , he feels , more than hears over the waters roar , the motor engage .
joe throttles down figuring that it is safer to correct the boats course slowly .
after a few seconds , the stern of the boat begins to come round .
as the boat responds , joe increases the power .
duck !
prissi yells .
joe doesnt even look up to see what the threat is .
all of his attention is on bringing the bow of the boat into alignment with the current .
the rock fair has hurled smashes into his shoulder in exactly the same place where prissi has hit him .
over the noise of the rampaging water , prissis incensed screams , and the scrambled noise from the pain in his shoulder , joe can hear fair shouting , stay .
stay .
you said stay .
within two minutes the figure of fair running along the bank is no more than a small pulse of mottled browns .
once they are free of fair and the boat is running smoothly with the current , joe throttles back to conserve energy and shifts his attention to interrogating prissi .
he asks question after question .
prissi only answers a few , and , of those , many are answered with just a word or two .
joe learns that jack was involved in prissis fathers death , and that the reason prissi is in danger has to do with some science done by the old woman a long time ago .
when joe asks how the centaurs figure into the story , prissi only shrugs .
it is more than an hour later and joe is wondering why bob tom had to die when his attention shifts back to the water to understand what he is seeing .
because of the overhanging branches and the brush edged banks , the water of the stream is mottled with the greens and browns of growth and blues , greens and blacks of growths shadows .
what he has seen downstream and thought was just a darker band of shadow resolves itself into a natural dam made from a couple of fallen trees and a snarl of driftwood .
joe needs either to turn upstream or beach the boat .
the likelihood of accomplishing the first option , given the speed of the current , the narrowness of the stream and the limited power of the motor is not good .
joe reverses speed and runs the motor as fast as it will go .
the bass boat slows , but not by much .
joe scans the bank , picks his spot and tells prissi to hold on tight .
as the boy runs the boat up on the steep bank , the bow bucks upward and bob tom , wings tightly cocooned in plastic , takes a final flight .
the rivermans body hits the bank , rolls down into the water and heads down stream buoyed by air pockets in the tarp .
within seconds the body smashes into the dam , wriggles back and forth like a skunk getting under a fence , and disappears from view .
a stunned joe just sits in the boat after bob toms body disappears .
it is prissi who clambers out first and starts pushing aside the brush along the bank so that she can get to the dam .
she is already using a long pole to prod for weak spots in the tangle of branches and broken trees by the time joe joins her .
her exertions are causing her to pant and her sentences are broken as she tries to catch her breath .
lets pushthe center .
if we canweaken it therethe whole thing mightwash away .
when joe reaches for prissis pole , she knocks his hand away and tells him to get his own .
the teener digs around until he finds a stout , fairly straight branch .
he crawls out onto the dam and works the end of the pole into the knot of branches before pushing down with all of his might .
when he manages to lever up the center of the knot , prissi uses her pole to push part of the top layer of the dam outward .
after a dozen attempts , small parts of the dam untangle .
within ten minutes , they have made a boat wide breach in the interwoven branches , but the interlocked fallen trees have not budged .
freezing geezers , this isnt working prissi would have thrown her pole away in frustration , but she is far too exhausted .
lets just stop , get in the boat and somehow work it over the trees .
joe shakes his head in disagreement , if we try that , were going to end up in the water .
this current is moving too fast .
yeah , well , if we stay here much longer , my strange friend is going to show up and something bad is going to happen .
despite his misgivings , joe follows prissi as she works her way off the dam .
hes long gone .
as a pubescent female , i have a sixth sense about when a male is going to appear or disappear .
i can assure you that if were here much longer , im going to have a date to a woodsy spring fling with someone who probably doesnt own a tux .
move .
although prissis manner angers him , joe is both happy that she seems to have regained some of an attitude with which he is very familiar as well as happy that he is too tired to argue .
he follows the girl as she scrambles her way back to the boat .
she is about ten meters shy of her goal , fighting her way through the brush which grows to the edge of the bank , when her wing gets caught in a patch of bullbrier .
rather than take the time to work her wing free from the handful of thorns which claim it , prissis frustration , her fear of fair , and her anger at not getting free from joe boil over .
she gives her wing an impetuous yank which both lets loose a flurry of feathers and sets the thorns even deeper .
prissis reason vacates her .
she screams and thrashes until joe pinions her tightly in his arms .
his first thought is to talk to her to try to calm her down , but a wiser part of him guesses that he himself is a big part of what is setting prissi off .
the walker shuts his mouth as tightly as his grip .
once prissi becomes still , joe loosens his arms and begins to prize the thorns from her wing .
by the time the wing is free , there are dozens of feathers , both pinions and remiges , strewn around the brush .
as joe leads his now docile friend to the boat , he remembers how he felt as adrona and seka led him through the mountain after he had had his tantrum .
the boy ends up completely wet but he manages to get prissi in the stern of the boat before he uses his pole to push the boat back into the water .
he tells her how to start the motor and where to steer .
when they get close to the dam , joe tells prissi to flip the propeller out of the water before he uses his pole to push the boat over the obstruction .
the boat rocks precariously and water slops over the gunwales , but finally slides across to the other side .
prissi aims the boat back toward the bank .
as soon as she and joe switch seats , joe takes the helm and pushes the motor to its maximum speed .
as the newly minted captain careers downstream , slopping in and out of the shifting currents , he keeps his eyes peeled for a blotch of blue .
he hasnt gone far before a series of bends and switchbacks force him to slow down .
when the stream finally straightens , joe looks as far downstream as he can but he sees nothing blue .
when the stream joins up with a much larger body of water , which joe assumes is the carmans river , the boy is convinced that he has somehow missed his friend .
he slows the boat as he tries to decide whether to turn back .
joe is chilled by the idea that bob toms body might be hung up on a snag or trapped underwater between a pair of rocks .
it is too easy for him to imagine a blue bundle caught in a similar puzzle of limbs and logs as what he and prissi have just gotten past .
he can see how the bundle will become undone and what will happen to the old mans remains when the carnivorous animals of the woods find it .
if he doesnt go back , he understands how the question of what if could bother him long years into his future .
joe begins to swing the boat upstream when he remembers to ask himself the same question that has guided him since his friend left .
what would bob tom do ?
although the answer is not without shades of gray , joe is pretty sure that if it were his body upstream and bob tom in the boat with prissi that the boat would be traveling downstream .
joe completes a circle so that he is heading back toward the ocean .
prissi twirls her hand as she asks , what was that about ?
i wanted to go back to find my friend , but then i decided that he wouldnt want that .
why not ?
a live prissi is more important than a dead bob tom damall .
rather than deal with the implications of that , prissi snorts , bob tom damall ?
a woodsy kind of guy with a name like that ?
is that for real ?
he sounds like the long lost cousin of the woodsman in lord of the rings .
tom bombadil .
joe is silent for a moment before he says , i just assumed that was his name .
i never thought about it .
did you ever read tolkien ?
of course , everybody has to .
and you never made that connection ?
prissis question is asked with so much disdain that joe decides to keep his mouth shut .
whered you meet him ?
as joe tells the story of running away , staying with the greenlanders and blesonus , capsizing on the hudson , being rescued by bob tom and the days since , prissi doesnt say a single word .
it may be the way that joe tells his tale , in how he dismisses the danger and disguises his fears , or it may be that her experience has scarred her , but the longer she listens , the more it seems to prissi that , even though joes life has been in real danger , some part of him also seems to think that the past days have been a lark , some kind of merit badge quest .
she twists her head around so that she can look at joe .
she is looking for her nqb , a special friend , someone who has made both her lips and her brain tingle , but she has a hard time seeing anything other than a deluded rich boy on a spring break safari .
prissis hands and feet begin jiggling and tapping in frustration that getting to where she has to go is taking so long .
both adolescents are shocked when a rubberized launch of camo green sweeps around a curve and comes hurtling up the river .
joe doesnt slow his speed , but he does move the bass boat close to the western bank .
his action gives the other boat plenty of room to pass by , but when the launchs path veers to intersect with theirs , joe guesses that the two orange feathered wingers standing up in the speeding craft are coming for prissi .
her swearing , so filled with rage and despair that the words themselves are slurred , confirms joes guess .
what do we do ?
get out of the boat .
theres no way this will outrun them .
as a frantic joe looks for a place to land on the high banked brush covered shore , he yells , can you fly ?
prissis arms fly up like they have exploded from a jack in the box .
probably not .
and not against them .
freeieekin mimi , just land .
joe is so slow to make a decision about where to run the boat up on shore that prissi gets the same eerie feeling she had with jack after her father was killed .
with the same kind of data density that those near death supposedly get , prissis mind flashes on myriad images of all the people shes met since the whole disaster began .
except for allan burgey , the only people who have been helpful and trustworthy have been africans .
making the same kind of ululating wail shed heard so many times in africa , prissi snaps her body back , dislodges joe , grabs the handle of the motor , yanks it as hard as she can , and pushes herself up into a half crouch .
just as the bow crashes into the bank and begins to climb its root thick muddy side , prissi flaps her wings twice , stretches her arms up and grabs hold of a thick branch overhanging the water .
the pain that brings to her cracked and broken ribs triggers a jet of slurry from her stomach .
prissis actions take joe by surprise .
as a result , he isnt prepared for the crash .
as the bass boats momentum carries it up the bank , instead of jumping free , joe reflexively holds on .
when the boat flips over joe is caught beneath it .
looking down , prissi sees joes situation , but commands herself not to care .
the wingers are after her , not joe .
she slides hand over hand until she is close enough to the trunk of tree that the underbrush thins out .
she drops down safely .
as soon as her feet touch ground , she starts looking for a way through the woods .
she knows she needs to hurry .
the wingers are no more than fifty meters from shore , but prissi also knows that she must be careful .
shes already been caught in the brush once .
she keeps her wings furled as tightly as she can before she begins to twist and turn through the dense thorny maze .
when she had escaped by flying between the ships on the hudson and had climbed down the rabbit hole to the subway and , even when she was fighting the zies , prissi had been confident that her wing size and shape gave her an advantage over her foes .
now , the forest is so thick and intertwined , and she feels so weak , that she cant think of any advantage that she might have .
in fact , she is feeling the same helplessness as on the night when she crashed , but , despite her despair , she has no notion of quitting .
in so much of what she has done , especially in her sports , the fact that she knew she was going to lose had never ever given her an excuse not to compete as hard as she could .
semi crouched , with her wingtips just short of touching the ground , prissi swings herself around the trunk of a tree so that she can take a glance backward .
the wingers have beached further upriver from olewans boat and already are climbing the bank .
prissi wriggles forward another ten meters before she turns around again .
as she has guessed , the wingers are paying no attention to joe .
she is their sole prey .
for the first time in her life , prissi wishes that her wings were not the silver and red that she had had to beg her father to approve .
if only she had been smart enough to get brown wings , then she might have a chance .
instead of hoping that she can make her way far enough into the woods to find a trail and escape , she could have been looking for a place to hide her brown among all the other browns in the woods .
the girl twists and turns , snags a wing , slows and carefully frees herself .
suddenly , for some reason which she can not explain , prissi feels incredibly calm .
it seems to her that everything is moving in slow motion .
the thorn she has between her fingers has a brilliant clarity .
its tip is a rosy ivory which darkens to a chocolate brown at its base .
the shape reminds her of a sliver of moon .
she watches her fingertips turn pink when she squeezes the thorns base .
she works the barb free from a feather whose vane is speckled with small glistening cabochons of river spray .
she studies the twig that gives birth to the thorn and sees where buds are struggling to break free into bloom .
her eyes follow the twig back to where it joins a branch .
she is fascinated by its latticed architectureuntil it suddenly comes to her that she is being chased by two men who want to kill her .
the shell shocked girl wonders how much time shes wasted studying the thorn , but she has no sense of whether its been a milli second or a minute .
when prissi turns her head , she sees the two wingers are only a half dozen trees away .
she lunges forward and begins to wrestle her way through the woods .
within seconds the feeling of preternatural calm returns .
prissi sees the world around her as a giant maze .
but , instead of feeling trapped or confused , she feels like she has a perfect lucidity as to where to put her foot , what branch to hold with which hand , and how to twist her body so that she can slip under or around the next impediment .
joe is flabbergasted when the two wingers pass him by .
because he sees himself as prissis rescuer , the teener cant understand why her attackers are not confronting him .
the idea that they consider him either non threatening or ineffectual enrages the boy however , at the same time , he feels much relief that he has been ignored .
from his limited vantage point beneath the overturned boat , joe watches the two sets of black ankle high frylon boots scramble up the bank and disappear .
as soon as the coast is clear , joe looks around for some kind of weapon .
he thinks that if the wingers are engrossed with catching prissi that he might be able to sneak up behind them and .
the end of the thought wont come .
hell sneak up on them and .
joe finally tells himself that the reason that he cant think what to do is because he hasnt found a weapon .
obviously , a rock would call for a different strategy than a club .
joe scours the riverbank , sees a number of fist sized rocks , and decides that throwing them from a distance makes more sense than trying to get close enough to hit someone with a club .
as he gathers his arsenal , his thoughts go back to the rocks and pebbles that he threw at adrona and sekarocks thrown in angerand futility .
it is not until the boy climbs to the top of the riverbank that his plan falls apart .
the woods are far too dense to accurately throw a rock more than a few meters .
if he is going to be of any use to prissi , joe realizes that he is going to have to attack from close quarters .
as the young fflowers looks around for something he can use as a cudgel or spear , the beached boat of the wingers catches his eye .
with a relief he refuses to acknowledge , joe considers whether he might be more help from farther away .
joe drops back down the bank to gauge how much the trees overhang the river .
reassured by the protection the trees canopy provides from an overhead attack and how little room to maneuver there would be for a large winger trying to fly under the drooping boughs , joe grabs the bow of the bass boat and begins to lift it .
once it is high enough , he gets himself underneath and pushes up until the boat flips right side up .
a minute later he has the bass boat tied to the wingers launch .
he jumps into the launch and makes sure that he knows how to operate it .
leaving the motor running in neutral , joe climbs back up the bank .
he can make out flashes of orange and knows that the wingers are too deep into the woods to be able to easily fly out .
the boy cups his hands and yells to prissi , three keds .
hoping that she will understand and her attackers wont , joe yells his instructions a second time , drops down the bank , jumps into the launch and heads downstream with the bass boat towed behind .
joe keeps close to the shore and under the protection of the overhanging canopy as he speeds away .
it takes prissi only a second to translate keds as kilometers downstream .
she snorts in derision that her escape could be as simple as making her way three kilos downstream .
her legs are quivering in exhaustion and her ribs feel like someone has buried a stone spearhead between them .
her pursuers , who she is sure , are the same ones who attacked her on the west side highway and the hudson , are using the same tactics that they used before .
they have split apart so that they can flank her .
as her enemies have gotten closer , prissi has had premonitions when she is sure that a bullet is speeding toward her .
she has imagined how , in the split second before she dies , as her body is slammed forward by the projectiles force , she will hear the flat whine announcing her death .
after her last moment comes and goes four times , prissi begins to wonder whether her assailants are armed .
guns in africa were ubiquitous .
a ten year old boy or girl who had not pulled the trigger on a weapon was the exception .
even though guns in noramica are illegal and extremely rare , prissi has just assumed that the wingers who were chasing her would have them .
now , as she threads her way through the kudzu and bullbrier snarled woods , she tries to decide whether she hasnt been fired on because the wingers dont have guns or because they want to capture , not kill , her .
in the middle of slinking around a tree trunk covered in poison ivy , prissi stops dead .
if it was schectys men who wanted to kill her and schecty worked for joshua fflowers as olewan thought , then these two must work for dicky baudgew .
but what is puzzling is why , if both groups want the same thing , the crystals around her neck , why does one group want to capture her and the other to kill her ?
prissi is navigating her way through a narrow thorny crease between two ancient uprooted swamp maples when her foot slips on a patch of mud .
as her leg slides out from under her , her arms snap out to recover her balance .
the girl lists , balances precariously for a split second , then , falls .
like brer rabbit in the brier patch , prissi is trapped in the clasp of the brush .
she immediately knows that she wont be able to free herself in time to escape .
she can feel hundreds of small sharp talons holding her in place .
as was true just minutes before when joe had to help to free her , she knows that struggling will only make things worse .
knows it , but doesnt care .
she can not lie still and do nothing while the two wingers close in .
prissi arches her back , kicks her feet and finds a black satisfaction as she makes her situation worse .
she is still thrashing when a winger grabs her hair and commands her to stop struggling .
in response , prissis body goes deathly still , but her mouth opens and a low wail , like the last long note of a dirge , comes out , hangs for a second , and , then , like fog , drifts across the forest .
prissis assailants are well prepared .
the amount of gear they keep removing from their paks and pants as they work to free her remind her of magicians .
folding saws , short handled loppers , rope and water tubes appear .
despite the loathing she feels for these strangers who can touch her , command her , and , even , rescue her without her permission , prissi is grateful when they share their supply of water .
her throat is extraordinarily dry , which she hopes is more from the medications she has been taking than from fear .
it takes twenty minutes before the wingers have cut her free from the brush .
looking down , prissi guesses that it would take twice that long to pick out all of the thorn covered stems stuck in her wings and clothes , but that is a moot issue .
her captors get prissi to her feet and tie a rope around her waist before they begin backtracking toward the river .
as the wingers slowly make their way through the puzzle of limb and vine with prissi sandwiched between them , the exhausted girl strains her ears for any sound of a boat .
she has been thinking that joes instructions must have been meant to deceive the wingers .
joe has not fallen so far in her esteem that she can believe that he has done no more than run away downstream .
if that really is what he has done , then joe fflowers has not made an escape plan , but only an excuse .
even though prissi hears nothing , she holds onto her waning belief , by panning her eyes across the woods in hopes of spying some small patch of joe preparing an ambush .
but , despite her efforts , she hears and sees nothing that can sustain hope .
as she stumbles and is tugged along , the captive considers and rejects a dozen ideas , each more improbable than the one before , of how , without help , she might escape .
at last , she gives up on any idea beyond that of slowing her captors progress .
she trips , stumbles and struggles , moans and swears , while being careful not to use up too much of her energy , nor irritate her captors to the point of violence .
while prissi has been frantically devising a means of escape , dicky baudgews minions have been discussing their own escape .
they had heard the diminishing whine of their boats motor as joe raced it downstream .
as they wend their way back to the water , the two wingers decide that the smaller one , whir , will stay behind with prissi while the larger , edgee , will fly downstream , deal with the boy , retrieve the boat , and come back to get prissi and his partner .
whir reminds edgee to be sure to say please when he asks for their boat back .
when they arrive back at the rivere edge , the brush along the bank is so heavy that there is almost no room to move .
whir holds prissi back as edgee removes some of the gear he has been carrying and slurps down more water before launching himself into the air .
once his partner is gone , whir pushes prissi out to the edge of the bank to give himself enough room to lean against a low hanging branch as a kind of perch .
he looks prissi up and down before asking , what makes you so valuable ?
prissi considers her response for just a second , i make fabulous eleven layer bars .
your evil boss wants the secret recipe .
the small squirrel faced winger smiles at prissi .
the smile grows to a sharp toothed chuckle and then a full blown laugh .
the mans foot lashes out so quickly that prissi has no chance to do anything but scream as she shoots backward off the bank into the river .
prissi is wet past her waist and her floundering wings are soaked before whir uses the rope attached to his captive to violently pull her back on shore .
pride , rather than any real strength , gets prissi back on her feet .
she chances a glance before she turns away from her assailant and stares at the river .
again , like while she was attempting her escape in the woods , prissi waits for the blow that doesnt come .
finally , the anticipation becomes too much , but when she turns her head , she sees the winger looking downstream and not at her at all .
prissi begins to clean her wings .
its less than fifteen minutes later that a slight movement tight against the bank upstream catches her eye .
the girl wonders if joe has abandoned the boats and somehow circled around .
if it is joe , he is moving faster than she would guess he could .
the form hugs the shore and shadows as it makes its way down stream .
its not until the object is less than fifty meters away that prissi figures out that what she is seeing is a swimming centaur .
prissi holds her breath as the man horse draws closer .
he swims to within twenty meters before he stops in a splotch of dense shadow .
prissi can make out movement , but doesnt understand what she is seeing .
suddenly , there is a streak of brown flashing toward her .
its accompanied by a slight hissing sound .
simultaneously with prissi whipping her head around to make sense of what she has seen , whir yowls before staggering forward with a brown fletched arrow buried deep in his left wing below the shoulder blade .
a second sound , anguished , precedes the winger tumbling off the bank into the river .
prissi experiences a split second of overwhelming relief at her rescue before the rope around her waist tightens .
the wounded winger thrashes against the current and his pain as the two conspire to pull him to a place he does not want to go .
a second later prissi is torn from the bank and joins whir in his fight for a longer life .
despite her frantic efforts , prissi cant get her feet braced in the soft muck of the river bed .
the force of the winger in his death throes drags her forward .
she loses her balance and her face gets pulled under .
she lunges forward to keep from drowning .
she coughs and spits out bloody river water .
she pedals her feet like she is on an invisible bicycle until one foot gets planted on something solid enough that she can spring forward .
that movement is enough to put some slack into the rope .
she uses that opportunity to lunge forward and spread her sodden wings .
when she comes back down into the river , her half submerged wings act like an anchor .
she digs in her feet and , after a few tries , manages to maintain a precarious counter balance against the rivers pull on the dying winger .
afraid of losing her footing , prissi doesnt turn around when she hears the centaur approach from behind .
the man horse sweeps past her and cuts the tether that binds her to her captor .
as the twitching winger is carried away by the current , prissi is transfixed by the rosy contrail he leaves behind .
it takes a touch from the centaur to get prissi to turn away .
when she looks up into her rescuers face , it is not , as she had supposed , the one who had killed joes friend .
this centaur has a round face with mottled skin from too much sun , perfectly round pale blue eyes and a small nearly lipless mouth .
when the centaur reaches out a hand , prissi grabs it .
the centaur cups his other hand and prissi uses it as a stirrup to climb onto his back .
even though the centaurs shirt is little more than a filthy rag , his long gray hair smells of grease and smoke , and a quiver of arrows hangs in the way , prissi cant help tightly pressing herself against the man horses back .
when she murmurs , thank you , in a voice that might be meant more for her than him , the centaur , whose name is hortos , rasps , you helped mortos .
those three words , words which tell prissi that something she has done , finally , has helped rather than harmed someone , snaps her jaw open and eyes tightly shut as she shudders out her sobs .
prissi cries as hortos swims downstream at a fast , but , seemingly , effortless , pace .
just shy of a bend in the river , the centaur lunges his way out of the water .
although the bosky woods look impenetrable to the girl , they are not .
behind a thin barricade of dense brush begins a trail that is just high and wide enough for the centaur .
as soon as they are on the trail , prissis emotions calm as if the solid footing beneath the centaurs hooves is providing the same kind of foundation for her feelings .
where are we going ?
although the centaurs words spill from his mouth as rough as gravel , prissi understands him to say , to find your ferend .
will we be in time ?
to do what ?
to save him .
he need saving ?
the other winger is going to hurt him .
course .
hes angry .
butyour ferendhe need saving ?
what do you mean ?
my herd dying , but dont need saving .
i dont understand .
why would you say that ?
hortos cranes his neck to the newly leafed trees overhead as he shakes his head , i dont .
she did .
olewan ?
old one .
yes .
but why does her opinion count ?
only one can save us .
but , wont .
didnt .
its prissis turn to shake her head , why not ?
it sounds like the rumble of thunder , but prissi interprets it as a laugha very bitter laugh .
dont need saving .
prissi is so engrossed in the futility of that statement that she gets slapped in the face by a fan of twigs .
how is your friend ?
prissi hesitates because she isnt sure that she has listened hard enough to remember his name .
mortos .
the centaurs response is almost a whisper , gone .
since she is sure she knows the answer , prissi doesnt ask , gone where ?
instead , she says , im so sorry .
me , too .
the centaur makes a keening sound and trots a half dozen paces before he says , old one , too .
this time prissi doesnt know the answer to the question she has on her lips , but an intuitive part of her brain keeps her mouth from asking it .
hortos has trotted another twenty meters down the green corridor before he says , gone .
a vision , a violent african flash of the imperious old woman , her few day mother , shrieking as she scuttles away from enraged hooves flares in prissis mind , but using all of her will , she extinguishes it .
she sees nothing but the maze of woods around her and hears nothing but unseen birds and the husky breathing of the centaur .
she says nothing .
the only sign that she understands what she has been told is that her grasp on hortos torso loosens .
chapter forty seven flight after he scuttles the bass boat , joe stands rigidly at the helm of the launch .
the quiet disturbs him because it gives him the opportunity to think and thinking , definitely , is not what he wants to do .
joe can provide himself with no coherent reason why he thought it was a good idea , let alone a plan , to take the boats and leave prissi behind .
he tries to tell himself that it wasnt fear for himself , but rather faith in herher skills , intelligence and courage which led to his choice .
when he had found a backwater close to what he had guessed was three kliks downstream , he had pulled in to shore .
the first five minutes of waiting he could tolerate , but , now , as each minute passes , what he is feeling becomes more unendurable .
he is a coward .
prissi is dead .
prissi is deadbut , she would have been dead despite anything he could have done .
he is not a coward , but he is a fool to sit waiting for the wingers to show up to reclaim their boat and take care of him .
prissi , somehow , is holding on , but waiting and needing his help .
he has lost bob tom and prissi and he will lose himself if he doesnt take action .
joe sits in the boat , as frozen in inaction as lots wife , until he hears the sibilant notes of wings .
even when the wingers arrival forces him to act , joe remains indecisive as to whether his chances are better staying under the canopy of tree limbs or trying to outrun his enemy .
when his hand flips the ignition , that slight movement is less the result of rational thought and more an act of mindless fear .
he accelerates into the river .
the red faced winger is no more than ten meters behind joe by the time he has the boat in the fastest part of the current .
joe has a moment of dark insight when he understands that his fear has led to his end .
and that insight will prove true , but not in the way the boy has foreseen .
the winds , blowing to the northeast , slow the winger and the rivers current , flowing south , adds several kilometers an hour to the launchs top speed .
after five minutes the launch is a hundred meters in front of the winger .
after ten minutes , the threat is no more than a dark speck in the sky .
joe gets to the mouth of the carmans river just before five in the afternoon .
he slows his speed as he makes his way along the coastline of long island .
he motors west until the water goes dark .
just before the sun slinks away for good , joe veers into a small cove and secures the launch high on the shore .
he takes a pak full of food he has found in a cubby , grabs cushions and blankets and heads inland to find a safe place to make camp .
joe eats until he feels fuller than he has in many days , but he cant sleep .
thoughts of abandoning prissi and losing bob toms body take care of that .
he lies on his back looking at the stars and ponders his fate and those of the others in his constellation .
tired , and as mentally exhausted as he can ever remember , joe swears a dozen revenges on his uncle and cousin .
after hours , he falls asleep and , given the condition of his conscience , sleeps deeply .
he wakes at sunrise and fills his belly for a second time before dragging the launch back into the water and a course that will take him home .
joe makes it back to manhattan early the next afternoon .
he calls his family .
bears the burden of their rage , relief and love .
visits his grandfather and , mostly , tells his story .
tells what prissi has told him and how she has died .
two days later he fledges .
with red and silver feathers .
joe returns to dutton ten days late from spring break .
endures the stares , the gossip and his new bodyguard .
works hard at both his studies and keeping his memories at bay .
with few exceptions , joe fflowers is as adept as most teenerz at moving so fast that the things that niggle and chase a heart or conscience get left behindthings and events once mountainous and momentous soon become memories no bigger than a pair of small wings in a great open sky .
chapter forty eight flight joshua fflowers leans back against a single pillow as he listens to his grandson joes story .
his face betrays almost nothing of what he feels .
some of that sangfroid is from the medication he takes , some is the product from being so old , but most comes from the last dregs of a life lived with obdurate will .
from the boy , the old man learns of how , if he had allowed himself to play any part in joes life , how he might have known prissi langue , or , as he prefers to call her , prissi fflowers , for more than a year .
he is chastened when he considers that if he had known who and what prissi was earlier , he might have protected her , kept her alive .
in a darker , more familiar , vein , he considers how he might have used prissi as a key , an intriguing peace offering to elena .
if he had shown up in the bury with a girl who looked like , and , from what his grandson is telling him , iswasso much like elena in her fierce intelligence and even fiercer will , elena might have given him a word , a bit of a smile that would have ameliorated a half centurys bitterness , loss and remorse .
fflowers tells himself that if he had known that prissi existed , of who and what and how she was , he could have insured that what he had built , his company , collections and wealth , would have been hers , rather than left to the schools , fools and foundations he has named .
if .
if .
as joe talks , one if after another come to the old mans mind .
after joe leaves , those ifs cause fflowers to sift and re sift memory .
to look at what he has doneall of the things he has accomplished , all the people and things he has gathered around him , and , lastly , all of the things , despite the long years , monumental intelligence and herculean efforts , that he has not donerespect his wife , love his sons , forgive himself .
fflowers measures .
he reviews .
as the hours pass and the sun moves past its meridian to begin its own slow fall from grace , the old man listens to things in his head he has not heard in years .
he listens to cautions and secrets and words of praise .
he hears the whispered concerns of the machines which surround him .
the old alchemist weighs and balances and , at the end of the hours of doing that hard math , he concludes that he has just two things of true significance left for him to do .
the fate of cygnetics becomes background chatter .
the active hands adanan and jack may have had in the deaths of beryl and prissi langue is someone elses burden .
his place in history will be shaped by hands other than his own and written by strangers .
as the afternoon begins to fade , joshua fflowers takes pen to paper and writes , i am sorry .
he seals that note and writes two sets of numbers , the very same numbers that allan burgey had left for prissi .
he puts that envelope into a larger one along with a note that it is his wish that the envelope be delivered to the location whose coordinates he has just written .
he seals that envelope and addresses it to thes mason , his roto pilot .
fflowers finger pulses a button , and when a triad of attendants respond , he tells them that he wants to be disconnected from his support systems so that he can spend a few minutes in his gallery , loggia and gardens .
his guardians protest , but fflowers protests more .
the old man is freed of his tethers and placed in a wheelchair .
when an obese , smoky smelling nurse tries to help him , the old man waves him away .
he hooks the control knob with a claw like hand and drives toward the gallery .
he takes his time admiring the idealized marble forms that have survived since they were carved by philosophers and fools three thousand years before .
he studies the men and women with their perfect , smooth , white hard beauty and formperfect humans , except for their missing limbs , half faces , and hidden stony hearts .
he moves out of the gallery , into the elevator , and up a flight .
despite being one hundred thirty stories over manhattan , joshua fflowers can smell spring as soon as he wheels himself outside into the garden .
the air is so fine that he takes small sips as if he were drinking an old calvados .
he slowly motors down the loggia that runs alongside the gardens .
his alternates his attention between the azaleas and hyacinths in the raised granite planters and the statues that run the length of the black and green marbled colonnade .
he stares at his statues and wonders about those who could see such potential in the world around them that they felt compelled to invent gorgons , gryphons , harpies , unicorns and chimera .
krakens and centaurs .
of all that fflowers looks at , it is the man horse , a white marble millennial old etruscan statue standing three meters tall that holds his attention the longest .
when he finally moves away , he whispers the same three words that he had written minutes before .
fflowers rolls his way close to the parapet that surrounds the airie .
manhattan is glowing from the reds and oranges a profligate fallen sun is splashing across half the sky .
far to the west , the spires of newton and screwton glisten .
to the east , the old scientist can see where the interlacing of rivers and ponds and land has made urban islands which , from his vantage point , look like giant flagstones .
to the south are the canted masts of wall streets lost fleet .
but , it is the open air beneath him that holds the most intriguing sight for fflowers .
here and there , far below , solitary winged workers are leaving their posts a few minutes early .
fflowers pushes himself to his feet .
as his body wavers from the exertion , the old man is struck with how long is has been since he has stood on his own two feetwith no doctors , no nurses , no helping hands .
despite his fragile stance , the trillionaire revels in that small gift .
he is upright and alone .
the old man stands in the warm light of the failing sun and waits his moment .
and , when that moment comes , as thousands of his fellow humans below spread their wings for home , he , too , spreads his limbs and takes for himself , after decades and decades of jealous waiting , the gift , the complicated gift , he has given to so many .
and , as joshua fflowers , finally , flies , as he leisurely flaps his rail thin arms , his ancient face breaks into a wide smile as he welcomes the freedom he has achieved in that last , late warm spring afternoon .
and , as the seconds of his short flight into a longer journey pass , fflowers , still the purveyor of dreams , thinks of how he and elena , reiklein and grammai , damp from rain , bubbling over with excitement at what the future held , squeezed into a cab and rode away into a glistening spring night .
chapter fourty nine charlie chapfallen unbonny prince charles .
smirking at him .
the money is gone .
joshua fflowers trillions are going elsewhere .
the last swirl of an enraged fathers willful pen .
gone to every kind of mundane goodness .
distributed like indulgences to shorten the time in whatever the old mans purgatory might be .
with the money , goes the power .
poof .
oh , not all the money and not all the power .
adanan still has his billions and he still shares the presidency with illiya .
that hasnt been taken .
yet .
but .
the real money and the real power are gone .
as his wife is gone .
because jack had decided to tell his mother why he himself felt that he had to go .
from accomplice to traitor .
and the girl , who had cost him the money and power and his wife and his son , she , too , is gone .
not a sighting since schectys men were plucked in mudtown .
no crown .
no throne .
all because of the girl .
was he wrong to have gone after her ?
hindsight was hindsight .
he needed to look forward .
much was gone , but not all .
what was left must be his .
he would not be prince charles .
he must be king even if it be as ruler of a much smaller realm .
but for that to happen , illiya had to go .
it would take some time and deep thinking to decide what kind of go would be best .
but , patience was a virtue .
and , patience would be repaid .
chapter fifty fright if a winger had been able to hover outside the fifth floor window of dicky baudgews apartment and see past the faded maroon damask curtains , he might have thought he was witnessing an aging actress auditioning for the part of a dowager princess in a chinese court drama .
dickys cheeks , forehead and chinlet are colored a whitish green from a thick covering of some emollient .
he has clipped back tufts of his remaining hair to keep them safe from the cream .
as he paces back and forth in his living room , the agitation of his steps make his bright paisley robe billow and flare .
if the windows had been open on what was proving to be a warm , blue skied daythe kind of day that entices all but the darkest of souls to come out , and once outdoors , to enchant them to slow their livesthrough those open windows would have come the shuffle slap of dickys ancient red moroccan leather slippers and the clicking sound his nervous tongue makes as it snaps against his worn cider colored teeth .
dickys feet and tongue , and even the tips of his fingers , are moving fast .
dicky is moving all these things to distract himself from what he really wants to do .
the ancient sprite paces and clucks and huffs and sighs , but , finally , all of these efforts fail .
with a dramatic flounce of the skirts of his robe , a flaring of material that would have done a matador proud , dicky baudgew plops into his favorite suede chair and begins to cry .
his hands go to his cheeks and his agitated fingers began to smear the cream they find there as dicky sobs and sobs .
dicky baudgew loves a puzzle , but he hates to lose .
oh , how he hates to lose .
and lost he has and lost he is .
as are edgee and whir .
it has been four days since his twoassistants have gone beyond the pale to capture the girl .
four days and he has heard nothing .
nothing !
one day with no communication was to be expected and two could be explained .
four days , too , could be explained , too , but only by one word disaster .
the girl is gone , and dicky baudgews ideas of what to do next are gone with her .
because the girl is gone , but death remains .
the very idea of death has enraged dicky as far back as he can remember .
five years old , wide awake in an ice cold bed in a colder room where the idea of it , death , the end , swells over him like an equinoctial tide .
he splutters , but in rage , not fear .
what force can be so malign , or , if not malign , then stupid , or , if not stupid , then horribly , horribly short sighted as to want dicky baudgew dead ?
it has taken decades of boredom and being ignored and enduring poor health and a limited wealth that feels like poverty , and more ill health , that small , niggling , sap dripping kind of ill health , before dicky could even think about the end without being blinded by a bloody rage .
but , when kind fate , in retrospect , a suspiciously kind fate , offered him the key to two more centuries of living , dicky first had felt relief and , then , a giggly euphoria .
but , thenbut , now .
no word for four days and what could be the word , but disaster ?
dicky baudgew feels like a man condemned to death who , having been stood against the wall , is miraculously pardoned by some unknown benign force .
pardoned , yes , but only for a few seconds before being slapped back against the unforgiving wall with a bullet .
it isnt fair .
dicky baudgew , who loves a puzzle , who loves a puzzle , but doesnt like to lose , hates to losepoor dicky is sobbing and the colors in his robe , wet from tears , are running and that is what dicky wishes he could do , too .
but , dicky knows that he can not run because he has known since he was just a wee boy of five , that running just brings death glee .
chapter fifty one flight they have been waiting at the rivers edge less than five minutes before hortos unslings his bow and nocks an arrow .
the remaining orange feathered winger is flying rapidly upriver .
prissi can only guess what has happened to joe , but the fact that the winger is flying rather than piloting the launch gives her hope .
even though the winger is a dozen meters in the air , in the middle of the river and beating his wings furiously , all of that activity seems to have no effect on the centaur .
he draws his bowstring so far back that prissi cant understand why the bow itself doesnt crack .
when the arrow releases , the bow string hums .
prissi listens to that locust like sound die as she watches the arrow fly toward where there is no winger .
yet .
to an incredulous prissi , the arrow and the left leg of the winger intersect .
wings stop beating as the winger looks to see what possibly can have happened .
edgee plunges toward the water , until , at the last second , his wings start to beat again .
when hortos steps out of the shadow of the woods , edgee notices .
he immediately drops his left wing and makes a sharp turn toward where prissi sits astride the man horse .
for some unknown reason , later prissi thinks it could have been pride or even despair , hortos delays reaching back into his quiver to draw another arrow .
as edgee flies toward them , he reaches down to his wounded leg .
prissi assumes that its the wound that draws his hand , but , instead , edgee reaches into a pant leg pocket and withdraws the folding saw .
edgee is less than five meters away when hortos second arrow digs deep into the wingers chest .
his wound will be mortal , but momentum and anger carry him forward .
prissi is thrown from the centaur as hortos rears to protect himself from edgees attack .
the centaurs hoofs strike as high as they can , but only catch the wingers legs .
edgees wings cover hortos torso as his hand begins maniacally slashing at the centaur with the saw blade .
the dying winger and the centaur , bleeding from a dozen cuts , thrash about in the dense brush .
prissi , caught for a third time that day among the vines and thorns , struggles to twist herself away from the battle .
edgee knows he is in his last minutes , but with hate and rage is how he wants to leave life .
he frantically slashes and stabs , but each following stroke of the blade does less and less harm .
hortos bucks and kicks and finally manages to throw edgee to the ground .
his hoof lashes out and snaps the arm that holds the blade .
the centaur places a hoof and his weight upon the wingers chest until the wildly pounding wrathful heart beneath grows still .
although she is not wounded , prissi is horrified that she is covered in almost as much blood as hortos .
she looks around and sees that she has been lucky because most of what holds her down is vine and not bramble .
she twists and turns , plucks and pulls and manages to free herself .
she uses the centaurs rear legs to pull herself up .
at her touch , the skin on hortos legs quiver as if a horsefly had landed , but the legs themselves remain immobile .
once she is standing , prissi works herself around edgees blood soaked wings so that she can see hortos face .
she reaches up to wipe the blood from the man horses face , but he flinches .
let me help .
going will help .
prissi doesnt know whether the centaur means that her leaving will help or that his going , like mortos and olewan have gone , will help .
she stands by , hands reaching out , but doing nothing until the man horse bends his forelegs and , then , his hind legs so that he is sitting on the blood churned forest floor .
prissi tries to catch his eyes , but hortos is looking somewhere else .
after a minute , he must have seen enough because he closes his eyes .
prissi closes hers , too and her hand reaches up to grab the crescent crystals hanging from her neck .
she can wait for hortos to die .
another one of her victims .
or , or she can move on .
more for hortos sake than her own , the devastated girl starts off down the path .
she has no idea of where she is going , and the idea that she is walking away from the water fills her with trepidation , but she feels she has no other choice .
she hasnt gone a half kilometer when she hears a long moan that three times rises up an octave before dropping back down .
in respect , prissi waits for the sound to disappear before she continues hobbling down the path .
she doesnt stop until it is too dark to see .
prissi , hungry , tired , near crippled prissi , worms her way a few meters into woods , works her way under a clump of barberry , and spreads her wings to clean them as best she can before she folds them around her like a blanket .
exhaustion overrides all elsehunger , fear , remorse , sadness , even , hate .
her wounded body needs to heal as much as her mind needs relief .
she takes three pills from the vial she had taken from the bury , swallows them and falls deeply asleep .
the slivered moon is high in the sky , its light mostly filtered by springs new leaves , when prissi is rousted by a hand tugging on her ankle .
despite how deeply she has been sleeping and how rough the awakening , the girl opens her eyes without fear .
the hand belongs to fair .
even when prissi sits up , the boy keeps pulling on her .
the broken light of the moon hides what his face might tell , but his hands are insistent .
when prissi folds her wings so that she can get herself to her knees , fair backs his way out to the path .
once they are both on the path , fair talks , but what he is trying to communicate is more effectively done with his hands than his words .
prissi gets the gist .
olewan , the old man , mortos and hortos are dead and fairs world is crumbling .
he has come to prissi to seek salvation .
since prissi has no idea where she is , and since she has no desire to test her wings , even if she could find a break in what seems to be an unrelenting , unbroken , forest canopy , she snorts at the idea of the woods boy looking to her for help to make his escape .
although prissi doesnt see how she might be useful to fair , it only takes her a moment to get an idea of how he might be able to help her .
im going to the big water , the ocean .
i can help you , but , first , i have to get to the ocean .
do you know where it is ?
the big water ?
prissi shakes her head in disgust as she listens to herself .
fairs nod is so tentative that the girl isnt sure whether he understands what she is asking .
she points along the path , the big water ?
fair points across the woods and begins moving down the path .
prissi wants to follow , but she isnt sure she trusts the boy .
after all , he has no reason to trust her .
she took olewans crystal , lied to him and then ran away .
fair turns after taking a few steps , sees prissi standing still , makes a face which seems more grimace than smile , and beckons her forward , they walk for hours in the dark .
despite the medication she has taken , prissis ribs ache .
her legs ache .
her heart aches .
as she walks , the girl manages to ignore the first two , but not the third .
they change paths at least a dozen times .
each time they switch from one path to another , prissi feels more out of control .
to allay her fears , she begins to flex the muscles in her wings .
she tells herself that she can , and , if she must , she will fly .
moving through the nights soggy murk , the winger spends as much time looking above as she does looking ahead .
she wants to be prepared so that if the need arises , she will know which way to fly .
most of the girls scouting is not reassuring .
the woods on both sides seem dense and dark .
as nearly as she can tell in the darkness , if she were to launch , she would crash into a tree in seconds .
so , she plots and plods and is enervated by both .
the only distraction from her thoughts comes when fair talks .
prissi has a hard time understanding what he is saying , but she makes herself pay attention because she thinks it may help her later on .
from fairs telling of the days events , it seems obvious to prissi that life in the bury is the same in its fundamentals as life beyond it .
anger , revenge , self centered desire and love are what wind the clock .
prissis feet , which have been tromping along without her minds guidance , are the first part of her to notice when the path changes .
walking is harder because the path is softer and the path is softer because it is sandier .
it is not until she stumbles and throws her hands forward into fairs back that prissis mind recognizes that they are getting close to the shore .
once recognition comes , all of prissis senses become alert to the changes .
there is a briny smell to the air .
the oaks and maples , pecans , and river birches have changed over to pines .
the brush is thinner .
there is a thump , as steady as a fools heartbeat , pounding in the distance .
they are still embowered when prissi shouts as she looks down the path to where the woods tight clutch gives way to open horizon .
the sight of featureless spectral gray works a chemistry in the teener that causes her to cry .
she can not say why .
her tears are profuse , but her feelings , as they have been throughout the long walk , though intense , remain diffuse .
two minutes later prissi and fair are standing on the high landward side of a wrack littered beach .
driftwood and netting , bubblebottles , seaweed and shells , a shoe , scraps of badboard , another shoe , a deeply gouged buoy and a million smooth rocks are strewn in that part of the wind sculpted shore which rises higher than the most recent tides .
below the belt of refuse is a band of smooth wet sand .
the pale light from the sliver of a defeated moon mottles the beach in taupe , black and gray .
the ocean beyond is simplerjust black and grays except far to the east where someone has drawn a pencil line of molten pink .
prissi stares at the horizon and is mesmerized by all of the open empty space .
all that unendingness makes her realize just how cloistered her last days have been .
she watches the pink lines inexorable growing .
she knows that as the dawn grows , the possibility that she can carry out her plan shrinks .
she swivels her head so that she can look to the south and west .
she sees nothing , but her years in africa staring out at the vastness of lake tanganyika have taught her that bodies of water are slow to give up their secrets .
even though she is impatient , she forces herself to slowly study the darkness before her .
still , she sees nothing .
she runs down the dune and across the surf swept sand to the waters edge .
prissis movements trigger a heightened wariness in fair .
he follows a step behind her with his hands poised in front of him like a shortstop with a good bunter at the plate .
prissi flares her wings to keep them dry as she carefully walks into the frothy gray surf .
the water is so cold her ankles immediately burn .
despite the pain , she takes her time to carefully scan the horizon first and , then , the water in between .
as she watches , a veil of fog far to the west shreds and she sees the faintest glow of lights .
without diverting her eyes , prissi reaches behind her with an outstretched hand .
its so beautiful .
lets walk .
with canine enthusiasm , fair takes prissis proffered hand .
she squeezes his callused fingers in affirmation of her good intentions and begins walking fast along the shore .
as they hurry along the smooth , hard , canted strip of sand , prissi works to solve the most important math equation of her life .
if object a traveling at x meters a minute .
ten minutes later , although the sun itself still remains hidden , its bloody rays have leaked deeper into the gauze of the pale gray sky .
the air is calm .
prissi is not .
she is sure that all of fairs feral senses are keenly aware of her agitation .
seeing the dark shadow of a massive boulder jutting from the sand far down the beach , prissi picks up the pace .
when they get close to the rock , prissi drops fairs hand and in her most enthusiastic voice says , lets climb it so we can see the sun come up .
cmon hurry !
prissi half flares her wings to keep them safe from the rocks rough surface as she looks for a foothold .
the boulder is more than two meters high , but less than that across .
as prissi begins to climb , a worried fair circles the rock to find his own way up .
by the time the girl summits and gets back up on her feet , she is disappointed to find that fair is already there with a big smile on his face .
she gives him her brightest most disarming smile and turns to the east as if to welcome the sun .
as fair turns with her , prissi shoves his shoulder as hard as she can .
fair fights for his balance , but loses the battle .
as the boy tumbles from the rock , prissi flaps her wings .
before her victim can scramble to his feet , prissi is five meters in the air .
she circles fair as she reaches into her kanga for the beat up mypod she had bought what seems so long ago in spicetown .
she keys the mypod before throws it to the ground .
im sorry .
sorry for everything .
this part of prissis plan depends on two things she cant control .
the first is that fair will keep the pulsing instrument , a memento of her deceit , and that he will start back to the bury .
she is hoping the thick canopy of the woods will keep the solar cell from recharging .
if her enemies , the other ones , the shadowy ones who want to kill her , pick up the signal , she is counting that the mypod will have lost its signal by the time they arrive .
the evidence will be that prissi came ashore and walked north into the woods where something happened and she and her signal were lost .
as prissi climbs to thirty meters above the ocean , she pinpoints the lights which are her goal .
she knows that she must not lose sight of those tiny beacons , but as the sun rises , she also knows that it will be harder and harder to keep her course .
it is this part of her plan that is either mortally stupid or brilliantly audacious .
no one would expect a fifteen year old girl to voluntarily give up her mypod with its gps function to fly across open water in the dark .
prissi knows it is audacious .
she also knows that it is stupid .
but , it is the only plan she could come up with that might let her be free .
in the same way that roan winslow became free to become nora langue .
life from death .
a shadow phoenix rising .
as she beats her wings , prissis thoughts shift from how painful it is to move her wingsshe thinks she can actually hear the crack in her clavicle scrape back and forthto what jubilation it is to be back in the air again .
as she has counted on , the early morning winds are calm .
the salt soaked air is as joltingly invigorating as a meta espresso .
the sound of those light breezes sliding over the swells is like a lullaby .
when her fatigue increases and her pains grow sharper , prissi tries to ignore that part of her mind which wants to calculate how far out from shore she can go before she would not have the energy to return .
she pushes back the nattering voice that wants to relive her exhausted crash .
she tries to escape the finicky monitor who wants to recount the number of times her wing has popped free of its socket in the days since she has left dutton .
she shakes her head to distract herself from the moral auditor who wants to tote up the damageher father , the drowned zie , bob tom , hortos , olewan , mortos , even fairand discuss payment .
lull .
lull .
calm lullaby .
come , lullaby .
since prissis mouth is too busy sucking in the damp sea air , her mind sings to itself .
the song may help to keep her calm , but it doesnt hold back the dawn .
when the girl looks over her left shoulder , she sees that an arc of yolk has risen above the horizon and the pre dawns red lava line is morphing into a sweep of orange .
prissi is hit with a jolt of pure panic when she turns back and , for a moment and , then , another , and , then , two more , she can not find her guiding lights .
a deep relief , like the medicine that surged through her veins at columbia unitarian hospital , sweeps through her when those guides finally , but very weakly , reappear from the endless murk .
the winger shifts her heading more to the west southwest to give herself plenty of leeway .
she restarts the lull , lull , lullaby litany , but suddenly a geyser of youthful defiance explodes in her .
she wont spend any more energy diverting fear .
instead , she imagines herself as the lead bird of a flock .
she is out front , leading the others to a good place , a place of safety , a place of joy .
she flies first , but in her flock her father follows .
she turns her head and sees how happy he is to be with her , traveling along her path .
as is olewan .
and .
something drops from prissi .
lightened , she rises in the air .
the sense of her new lightness is so strong that she looks down to see if her kanga is still on her chest .
the pak is there , but , somehow , a huge weight is gone .
the winger climbs higher and higher , and , as she does , she feels ever lighter .
she feels that , like an albatross , she could fly across the ocean to africa .
staring ahead , prissi sees the ships lights wink out as dawn spreads across the atlantic , but as those pin points disappear , the blocky shape they outline begins to emerge from the gray .
as the foundering teener draws closer , she can see that the hulk emerging from the mist is a freighter , a beat up scabrous freighter .
heaven in a hulk .
prissi is instantly positive that the ship she is flying toward is the same one whose crew offered her sanctuary on the hudson .
she knows beyond any doubt that when she lands that a rail thin , hard muscled liberian woman will wrap her in her arms .
now , prissi is truly amazed .
she has found a point , or a plane , a place between life and death , where will is all .
beating her wings is effortless .
she can fly through the gloaming skies with no more than thought .
because it is so easy , and because she is so eager to see her freighter friends , to touch their smooth black skin , to smell the pungency of harissa on their breaths and the macassar oil in their hair , to be rocked in the cradle of their care , prissi beats her wings faster .
but , in a sharp and amazing display of the interconnectedness of the world and will , as she flies faster , the boat goes slower .
but that cant be .
she and the boat , she and the crew , the african crew are meant for one another .
she and africa .
the freighter wallows , which will prove to be bad for the boat , but good for prissi , because the exhilaration she is feeling is no more substantial than the fanciful bones and feathers of the chimera .
in actuality , the thrice wounded teener is beyond exhaustion .
she should have crashed and died minutes before .
it is only an aberrant northeast wind , presaging a spring storm , lifting her wings and pushing her southwest , and the compromised speed of the disabled ship , that allow the girl and her goal to intersect .
a failing , wildly flapping , deliriously ecstatic prissi approaches the liberian freighter on its portside just behind the bridge .
she clears the railings and makes such a poor landing that she bangs her shoulder and then her head against the rusty steel of that ancient tower .
a beaten heap of wet wings and worn will rises and falls as the freighter wallows in the low seas until a woman , an african woman , an african woman with thin hard muscled arms , lifts the unconscious girl and carries her below deck to the relative safety of the crews small quarters .
when prissi finally regains consciousness , her ears listen to the drum laden music pounding from a banged up speaker , then , her nose smells the mahlebi , bird pepper and nigella and finally she opens her eyes to see a rainbow of brightly colored clothes hanging around the small room like fifth world flags .
africa .
oh , africa .
she beckoned and prissi couldnt wait .
to go to her feverish , loving deadly bosom .
home .
where millions lived for the most basic of reasons .
and millions died for no reason .
africa .
home .
prissi craved to be back in the land where she was born and raised , the land where cause and effect had disconnected dozens of decades before .
africa .
oh , africa .
as prissi sings her feverish hymn , the crew of the j.j. roberts works to bring life back into a ship that is supposed to take them back the ten thousand kilometers to their war torn home .
when they sailed into new york five days before to unload a cargo of coffee , no one had any doubts that the roberts needed to undergo major repairs .
the crew of west africans contained a number of good mechanics , machinists , jerry riggers and makers do .
the skills to make do were requisite for those sailing ships under fifth world flags , but , the roberts was in need of more than baling wire and ingenuity .
she required money .
money was requested , but money was denied .
the owners , two thirds of a botswan junta once removed , had other priorities .
the captain of the roberts , a wild eyed gabonese named christian bongo , was ordered to load his cargo of used clothing and make do .
to insure that the captain understood his duties , the owners made mention of the health of bongos wives and children .
the roberts wallows , but , to prissi down below , that movement feels like rocking .
soon that rocking , along with a dreamy lullaby sounding deep inside her head , sends the girl into many hours of the deepest of sleeps .
it isnt until a minor miracle , also below deck , involving an acetylene torch and some non traditional and suspect plumbing is accomplished that the roberts gets back underway .
when prissi awakes she hears the roar of the engines and knows she is bound for africa .
the rested winger keeps her eyes closed and , at first , only concentrates on the grumbling of the engines and the thudding of the waves banging on the bow .
when those sensations finally bore her , she imagines flying with a falcons swift speed and sharp sight .
coming up over the hill and down across the soccer fields and , then , above the mu and over potters pond where she can pick out nasty nancy with her frizzy hair and clipped wings hiding her butt against the low wall outside the jig .
her hands are waving as fast as her lips are moving as she tells adam lin of all she did to help prissi stay out of trouble , of how she misses prissi , butfly ontheres joe with his new wings and his aletes body in that puffy stage of the newly fledged and the expression on joes face looks as tentative as his body as he stands alone at the edge of the pond staring into its waters , butfly , fly ontheres dr. smarkzy with a package tucked under his arm and he looks so old and frail and , he , too , as he makes his way along the path made of thousands of bricks , each with a graduates name pressed into the clay , looks tentative in both his walk and thoughts , but , flyand prissi veers north to lakeville , but before she even gets to the edge of the bissell campus , knowing the smug , self assured look she will see on jack fflowers face , she turns back and she is so high , a klik high in the sky that from the ground she must look like no more than a smudgy dot and she is back and forth over the top of the building at the bottom of central park yet , as hard as she looks , even though she can see a gorgon and chimera and a massive centaur , there is no sight of an ancient man in a wheelchair , butfly onseventy blocks north she hovers over spicetown riding the thermals and watches and waits until her patience ends and she dives toward a window defending itself from the world with heavy , faded red damask curtain and shes through the glass and she has the simpering little evil doll man on the floor , butnofly , fly onto a parking lot that hasnt held a car in a half century , high above the hudson , where darting , dipping , minnow fast , jiffy apithy brings the soccer ball up field and his bright round black face is split in two by brighter white teeth and he dribbles the ball from knee to knee and then to his scarred head and then squatting down he gathers his strength and just as all his opponents arrive he snaps upward and the ball sails into the air higher and improbably , impossibly higher and prissi reaches out and catches it and looks down and sees jiffy laughing and hears a metallic noise and looks up and sees a door open and a round faced woman with ritual scars on her cheeks , looking at her .
im princy piety .
if this god maddening ship is gon sink , we gon sink with full bellies .
princy piety steps through the bulkhead with a battered tray and the smells from the food it holds make prissis nose explode .
hearing the injured girls snort causes a blanketing laugh from deep in the africans small strong body .
prissi gives the slightest twitch to her wings .
fly on .
the four books of etretat by matt chatelain copyright info this book is a work of fiction .
names , characters , places and incidents either are products of the author 's imagination or are used fictitiously and are not to be construed as real .
any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons , living or dead , is entirely coincidental .
all rights reserved , including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever .
the four books of etretat by matt chatelain copyright mar 2012 by matt chatelain smashwords edition smashwords edition , licence notes this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase another copy for each recipient .
if you 're reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return it to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thanks for respecting the hard work of this author .
cover by ebook cover design the sirenne saga 1 the caves of etretat 2 the four books of etretat 3 the one book of etretat 4 the greyman published by matt chatelain .
for further information , go to mattchatelain.com .
to contact , send email to matt mattchatelain.com .
to dad table of contents prologue the discovery paul sirenne a brief update paul sirenne chapter one the shadow killer paul sirenne chapter two deciphering the code paul sirenne chapter three the villa lindon paul sirenne chapter four father plantagenet paul sirenne chapter five the shadow killer attacks paul sirenne chapter six a talk and a dream paul sirenne chapter seven examining the books paul sirenne chapter eight doctor phillippe paul sirenne chapter nine the great secret revealed weissmuller recollections 1943 1954 paul sirenne chapter ten weissmuller and the spores paul sirenne chapter eleven a trip to rennes le chateau greyman chronicles watching the watchers weissmuller recollections 1954 1960 paul sirenne chapter twelve the secret in the church greyman chronicles the americans thawing out greyman chronicles the watchers tracking destiny paul sirenne chapter thirteen the hoard of spores greyman chronicles the watchers destiny by the tail paul sirenne chapter fourteen a gain , a loss , an unexpected find greyman chronicles the americans figuring it out greyman chronicles the watchers powering destiny paul sirenne chapter fifteen back to the caves maurice leblanc 's second journal paul sirenne chapter sixteen discussing the journal greyman chronicles the watchers repeating destiny greyman chronicles the americans moment of truth weissmuller recollections 1960 1962 paul sirenne chapter seventeen reversing the fans greyman chronicles the mossad finding the link paul sirenne chapter eighteen encounter with the devil paul sirenne chapter nineteen getting ready greyman chronicles the watchers destiny takes a hand paul sirenne chapter twenty coulter steps up to the plate greyman chronicles the americans preparations paul sirenne chapter twenty one last minute doubts greyman chronicles the americans time to do or die trying paul sirenne chapter twenty two getting into position greyman chronicles the americans breaking through paul sirenne chapter twenty three spreading the news greyman chronicles the americans keeping to the plan paul sirenne chapter twenty four getting caught greyman chronicles the americans time to die trying paul sirenne chapter twenty five unexpected saviors , unexpected revelations greyman chronicles jacques cartier 's purpose the sirenne saga more books by matt chatelain latest release the vostok juncture an interview with the author bonus an excerpt from the vostok juncture about the author the author 's website contact info prologue the discovery by liam o'flanahan .
1475 anno domini on the new continent , near green oaks the ship floated slowly along the narrow river , sails lowered .
a sailor whistled briefly from the lookout on the main mast .
he was pointing at a side channel , completely clogged by thick evergreens crowding the shores .
she 'll not fit through there , sire , '' first mate cristophorus stated in a trembling voice .
he hated being the bearer of bad news .
the captain had been in a foul mood all morning , fingering his scimitar constantly .
heads could roll at any instant .
the wrath the first mate feared did not materialize .
very well .
drop anchor here . ''
a dozen sailors jumped forward , obeying as quickly as possible .
this channel is as the map describes , is it not ? ''
yes sire , exactly as the map indicates .
we are here , sire , after all these long months . ''
do n't count my gold before you 've found it , cristophorus .
we 've yet to find the mine entrance and those cursed redskins litter the shores like rats , give us no peace . ''
perhaps they did not appreciate our last encounter , sire , '' opined cristophorus .
the captain , reminded of the incident , showed an expanse of long , sharp teeth when he laughed brutally .
no , i guess they did n't , did they ?
oh well , the day is young .
they may show their faces still .
call to my troops below .
let 's ready our supplies , get to shore , and be on our way .
we know what we are looking for .
let 's go find it . ''
a soldier ran out of the quarters below deck , bringing the captain 's war clothes , each item bearing his family 's dragon crest , with its distinctive four wings .
the soldier carefully placed a pointed helmet on the captain 's head , making sure the ears did n't catch on the metal edges , lest he lose his own .
he 'd barely finished when the captain moved away , not even acknowledging the soldier 's presence .
the long voyage was nearly over .
the dragon 's treasure would soon be found .
long boats were lowered and they were off , reaching shore quickly .
cristophorus wasted little time orienting himself , familiar with his captain 's short fuse .
the map he used was a strange thing , tattooed with a dark red ink on a piece of leather with a skin pattern he did not want to recognize .
the captain had never spoken of its origin and cristophorus had never asked .
the soldiers and sailors assembled on shore .
the captain gestured everyone into silence , sniffing the air and peering carefully through the open woods .
his head veered towards the east , on the other side of the narrow river .
the redskins are coming .
let 's make sure our second reception is their last one .
foot soldiers , position yourselves by the banks .
archers , hide behind the trees .
let none cross the river .
a reward to the first man who kills ten and death to whoever kills none .
now , not a sound until i give the signal . ''
soldiers and archers hurried to find camouflage , fighting for the best positions in the thick bushes , hoping for a large number of redskins .
every man wanted to be guaranteed at least one kill .
slight sounds and unusual bird calls announced the arrival of the redskins , though none could yet be seen .
the redskins would have to cross the narrow river to reach their intended quarry .
the attempt began with three young bucks slipping noiselessly into the water under the watchful eyes of the rest .
when the three neared the middle without harm , another four bucks slipped into the frigid waters .
the second group neared the shore when a short command sounded .
four arrows shot out from the far bank , reaching their targets unerringly .
a dozen more arrows followed , finding targets across the shore with similar accuracy .
several soldiers jumped up , brandishing their scimitars , and beheaded the three redskins on the western shore , before fading back into the brush .
the dying bucks sank into the river , their blood pumping into the cold waters .
for a while , all lay still , silence reigning over the forest .
on one bank , an entire force lay hidden , waiting for any betraying movement .
on the opposite bank , the remaining redskins used every skill to get closer to the murderous invaders .
they had nothing to lose , their squaws and children hacked to death during their last encounter .
it was a hopeless task .
the force they faced was composed of formidable warriors .
the soldier 's bows were far superior to those the redskins used .
at close range , the invaders were even more dangerous .
they carried long , curved swords and knew how to use them .
metal plates protected their bodies .
when cornered they became maddened , striking out with savage rage until they were either killed or they escaped .
nothing could stop them .
the outcome was predictable , the redskins betraying their positions with a move or a sound and dying instants later .
when the last one was gone , the soldiers heaved a common sigh of relief .
they had each killed at least one redskin .
the captain stood , using his scimitar as a cane .
he looked across the river , his keen eyes missing nothing .
good .
now that the amusement is over , perhaps we will be able to find the fabled mine .
cristophorus , what direction ? ''
the first mate pointed in a northwesterly direction .
that way , sire . ''
cristophorus got to his feet , shouldering his heavy pack , and started to walk , leading the others .
he was anxious to get there , just like his captain .
it had been difficult to make out all the landmarks on the leather map .
the stretching of the hide had distorted the shoreline .
the captain might have refused to tell cristophorus where the map had come from but whoever had drawn it had been here , in this very location .
other men had been to this unknown continent , men who had brought the dragon 's treasure to leave it behind deliberately .
the sacrifice was unthinkable .
what was dangerous about treasure ?
cristophorus wondered if he should be running from what they sought rather than seeking it so ardently .
after a day 's travel , they arrived at a nondescript stone cliff with a natural opening in its side , shaped like a large doorway .
nearby , covered by heavy vegetation , piles of tailings could still be recognized .
once again , the map was right .
this was a mine .
several sailors complained about going down into the dark tunnel .
the soldiers remained silent , knowing better than to show fear in their captain 's presence .
he solved the problem by ordering the sailors to set up camp by the entrance , leaving behind three soldiers as guards .
the rest would come with him into the mine .
torches were lit and ropes prepared for the descent .
the way was steep , precipitous at times .
the tunnel appeared natural , created by some unexplained seismic event in the past .
although the map had led them here , it seemed like they had the wrong place .
the captain spotted a regular pattern to the cracks on a side wall , a pattern where none should have been .
closer inspection revealed ancient cement , carefully shaped and colored to imitate rock .
seasonal temperature change and constant humidity had cracked the surface layer , betraying the presence of stone blocks behind it .
this was no wall .
it was a hidden doorway .
tools were improvised and the men began hammering at the cement .
it was slow going .
the cement broke away in small chips , requiring many blows to make any significant progress .
the captain ordered more men to hammer at it .
they had to be careful not to hit each other in the confined space .
the wall could not long survive such a concerted assault .
several stone blocks , near the center of the wall , broke away from their mortar bedding , revealing a deep darkness beyond .
the way was cleared rapidly to permit the captain to enter .
seizing a fresh torch , he bent down , passing through the narrow entrance , followed by an eager cristophorus .
negotiating a long passageway , the captain stepped into a magnificent large chamber , deep in the heart of the mine .
the men slowly sidled in beside him , hugging the walls in awe , their torches revealing a fantastic sight .
everywhere they looked , gold and jewels shone back .
boxes , crates , chests , sacks , all filled to overflowing .
look , sire , over there , at the far end of the chamber .
do you see it , upon the stone ledge ? ''
the captain raised his torch , peering into the gloom .
sitting by itself , distant from the rest of the treasure , was a large , bejeweled , rectangular box , an ornate golden carving on its lid reflecting their torchlight tantalizingly .
the four wings of the dragon , borne by the angels of destiny .
at last .
the map has truly led us to it , after all this time . ''
yes sire .
we have finally found it . ''
the captain sent one of the soldiers running forward with a torch , to better illuminate the room .
the box emitted a high pitched keening as the soldier neared it .
he slowed his approach , turning back towards the captain for instructions , a concerned look on his face .
bolts of lightning jumped from the four dragon wings , hitting the soldier square on the breastplate .
his muscles cramped , frozen by the immense power pouring into him .
the soldier 's eyes locked with the captain 's , betraying an awareness of his fate , then the man 's flesh burst into brilliant blue flames , his blood boiled , and his heart exploded .
before he could fall dead to the ground , several more lightning bursts sprang from the dragon chest , hitting the soldier 's body on the head , the chest , the arms , until nothing was left but molten slag and ashes .
a charged silence fell over the cathedral chamber until a trembling voice made itself heard .
it was cristophorus .
we might have to rethink our approach , sire . ''
paul sirenne present day a brief update for a few months following the discovery of the caves , i was very busy overseeing the re awakening of our long slumbering fortress .
the great hunt had sent me down an inevitable path , leading me to accept the stewardship of the caves of etretat .
the long dead maurice leblanc , the author of the hollow needle , along with his cohorts , raymond lindon and arsene lupin , had handed their task to me across a gulf of more than sixty years .
the net , a secretive group organized by leblanc to protect etretat and its deep secrets , had placed itself entirely at my disposal , looking to me for direction .
using the funds we had inherited , i employed the net to develop and run different centers in our underground fortress .
i purchased the electric submarine , the 'argos ' , which we had originally leased .
it had been instrumental in helping us discover the underwater entrance to the fortress .
it was soon serving as a touristic attraction during the day and as transport for members of the net during the night .
it even made sufficient revenues to pay for itself .
the vallin brothers took it over its operation , often arguing about who would pilot it .
raymonde , mrs leblanc 's daughter and the woman i loved , took over the administration of the net , a task previously carried out by her aging mother .
raymonde now organized salaries , schedules , supplies , and resolved inter personal difficulties although our romantic relationship had developed and deepened , we were both so busy that we found little time to spend together .
nevertheless , we remained strongly connected , united in life and in purpose .
at times i felt her presence inside me , our thoughts often echoing each other 's .
since arriving in the caves , we had both become infused with energy , working ceaselessly at returning this underground fortress to life , anxious to begin the important investigations .
fabian coulter , my life long friend and a perpetual night owl , had undertaken the installation of a massive computer room , intended to provide us with eyes over the entire world .
coulter , using his phenomenal hacking skills , had tapped into telephone cables dating from world war 2 , still connected to the local infrastructure , giving us access to the internet and free long distance .
jonathan briar , my mentor and the man who saved my life when inspector norton tried to kill me , was now studying the physical archeology in the caves .
after a working vacation in england , where he participated in an ongoing archeological project , he returned to the caves with a team of archeologists .
under his expert direction , they were preparing to delve into the deeper history of the place , along with mapping the layout of the lower caves .
liam o'flanahan , the third member of my original team , had appropriated the weissmuller manuscript and the leblanc journal , vowing to figure out what they really meant .
a conspiracy expert and incredibly tenacious , o'flanahan would ferret out the codes hidden in those documents sooner or later .
coulter and i had a rendezvous with him later on , to discuss some of his preliminary findings .
i had reserved the three mysteriously identical hollow needle books as my area of study .
i was planning to search into their history when i could get to it .
i had endless obligations to attend to .
being the one that everybody looked up to was an unsettling experience .
i did n't feel different but people treated me with increased respect and , more disturbingly , often with reverence .
mayor tonnetot and i had many meetings , planning the development of our growing resources .
the entire town of etretat was now part of the once dormant organization called the net .
even though it had been dormant for decades , awaiting my return , the net had blossomed quickly when exposed to the light once more .
the etretatais had always believed they had a unique purpose .
that knowledge had kept their lips sealed , waiting for the prophesied moment when the net would return to life .
many members ascribed spiritual overtones to the prophecy of my arrival , which explained their reverence .
i knew the prophecy to be part of an elaborate plan developed by leblanc and company .
anticipating hitler 's arrival , they had set an elaborate trap in the caves .
with a fabulous crown hidden beneath a throne as the trigger , set to release massive quantities of poison , the trap killed adolf hitler , bringing the third reich crashing down and saving the world in the process .
leblanc had also prepared for my return , sixty years after the fact .
in the doing , they had effectively shut down the caves for more than half a century .
once the right time had passed , their machinations began clicking once more and i was brought out from the folds of history .
unfortunately , their attempts at secrecy had not been entirely successful .
someone else had known about the caves .
inspector norton from interpol .
a twisted murderer , known as the shadow killer , norton had been afflicted with two conflicting identities , one killing senselessly and the other endlessly hunting the killer .
he had murdered my father and his wife , darlene , inhumanly twisting their bodies into a clue , prodding me to start the great hunt prepared by my father .
we still had no idea how norton had known of the caves .
he had been remorseless , dogging our footsteps during our mad run for answers .
these answers had led us directly to the caves of etretat , revealing the hidden role leblanc had played in history , of beheading the nazi regime in a masterful move .
however , our discoveries had left more questions than answers .
norton had been killed by briar , saving my life in the nick of time as i stood there frozen , completely unprepared .
norton had died without saying a word , leaving us unable to explain why he had been after me .
the whole adventure had left me baffled and disturbed , instead of satisfied that the worst was over .
to speed our process of cave discovery , i had decided the original team members , briar , o'flanahan , coulter and raymonde , should meet at least once weekly .
we used the meetings to review the recent discoveries and plan our next investigations .
in this way , all were kept informed , able to provide support when needed .
although planning had brought me here and not spiritual prophesy , it was difficult to avoid admitting the caves felt very special indeed .
unfortunately , the peaceful months we took to supply and man the fortress ended all too quickly when we were thrown into the chase once more from an unexpected direction .
paul sirenne chapter one the shadow killer early that morning , coulter had called me on the wireless intranet that connected all of us together .
raymonde and i wore techno glasses sunglasses with built in monitor , cameras , speakers and microphones , connected wirelessly , the lenses heavily tinted because of the bright fungus produced light in the caves .
other techno glasses had been obtained so personnel could stay in contact with each other .
eventually , everyone in the caves received a pair .
they became a popular tool for net members , who could consult in real time while examining streaming video of the discoveries .
now people , would just stop working , sit for a break and have an online discussion about the best way to proceed .
as many could be brought into the decision making process as was necessary .
once done , people would disconnect and continue with their work .
it made for a certain type of hive mentality and private channels were set up to allow for gossip and social activities .
schedules were organized for video broadcasts at certain times and a 'breaking news ' interactive hotline had been set up , receiving rave reviews .
coulter had given me a five minutes heads up .
he wanted to hold an online meeting , telling me to prepare for some bad news .
i connected online with raymonde and we chatted while i prepared lunch in the kitchen .
what do you think he could have to say ? ''
she wondered .
i do n't know .
he had that look in his eyes .
it ca n't be good , '' i replied .
how has your day gone ? ''
fine .
excellent really .
i am on my way to you on the first automated electric golf cart to be brought online .
it has an onboard computer and can safely carry anyone to any point in the renovated cave areas .
it can even recharge itself .
also , we just finished bringing in the final load of supplies this morning , so everyone is fairly happy .
it figures coulter would announce rain on such a good day .
here i am , '' she got off her cart , her cam revealing a familiar looking entrance .
our own .
turning off my glasses , i opened the main door , finding her about to enter .
we hugged tightly then returned to the kitchen , where i served her some lunch .
i picked at mine , not hungry .
looking over , i saw her doing the same .
she looked up , her deep black eyes probing into mine .
we both laughed .
how about some juice then ?
may as well , though i 'm not thirsty either .
i should be but i 'm not . ''
me neither . ''
the others signed on and the online meeting got underway .
what was so important , coulter ? ''
rasped o'flanahan .
we 're going to meet in a little while anyway . ''
indeed , coulter , i was in the middle of a meeting with the head of the archeological team .
we are just about to begin the first excavations .
despite the convenience of this intranet , it is sometimes a bother , '' added briar .
guys , please , this is difficult enough , '' interrupted a nervous coulter .
maybe i should just get to the point .
you all remember this video , i hope . ''
the glasses ' monitor changed to show a grainy still from a video , a rearward looking shot over several passengers sitting in a plane .
i remembered it instantly .
this was from my plane flight to paris , the one where i originally met raymonde , thanks to o'flanahan 's antics .
it was also the same flight taken by norton , the shadow killer , disguised as harry stiles , a man he had killed for his plane ticket .
i could see him in the picture , sitting calmly three rows behind me .
coulter superimposed a red outline around his face .
you all know how i like playing with my videos . ''
o'flanahan snickered .
coulter ignored him , remaining focused .
this image bothered me in particular .
it took me a while to figure out what was niggling at me but i finally got it .
let me give you a hint . ''
the image altered , with the fake harry stiles fading into light grey tones .
it allowed me to focus more easily on what was behind stiles , a row of seats , filled with various people .
my eyes were drawn by an odd shape behind and just to the right of the fake stiles .
it was a man sitting oddly , his body contorted , slumping in the chair .
he was bending his head down , his hand held by the side of his face , as if deliberately trying to hide himself .
something in the curve of the nose and the end of the man 's chin struck me as familiar .
my mind revved up , scanning through all the faces i could think of .
only one matched .
norton was on the plane with the shadow killer , '' i said .
how did you catch on so quickly ? ''
coulter exclaimed , highlighting the interpol inspector 's outline .
i just saw it faster than everybody else , that 's all , '' i replied .
well , you are , as always , correct .
norton was on that plane , sitting right behind the man disguised as harry stiles , who had to be the shadow killer and if norton was on the plane with the killer ... '' o'flanahan , jumped to the logical conclusion then norton could n't be the shadow killer .
ha ha ha .
i knew it .
briar killed the wrong man . ''
briar 's face became apoplectic , his bald head turning red .
i resent that , o'flanahan .
you 're trying to imply i did the wrong thing , that i killed an innocent man somehow .
you could n't be more wrong and you know it .
killer or not , the man was deranged .
you all saw that .
he shot at sirenne then attacked him on the beach with a knife , intent on killing him .
if i had n't done what i did , paul would be dead .
i do n't regret it , not for a second . ''
mr briar 's right , '' supported raymonde .
we ca n't blame him for doing the best he could .
he made the only decision he was able to . ''
briar jumped back in , not finished .
thank you , raymonde , but it 's not just that .
i do n't think any of you have thought this through to its proper conclusion .
sirenne 's father warned us of the need for silence .
perhaps norton was not the shadow killer but he was dangerous nonetheless and knew something about our caves .
he was screaming the letters hn at every opportunity , calling attention to the hollow needle .
how long would our great hunt have lasted then ? ''
briar added .
we have proven to ourselves the reality of these caves .
i am convinced keeping them secret is of paramount importance . ''
hey , briar , you just made me realize something . ''
o'flanahan admitted .
when norton talked about hn , we always thought it was connected to leblanc 's hollow needle book .
i 'm beginning to wonder if he even knew of the book .
do any of you remember what norton was screaming at sirenne , when he attacked him on top of the cliff ?
did n't he ask paul about his sister ? ''
i flashed on the day in my mind , the scene vivid , watching norton , his gun pointed at me , screaming in the wind .
helena .
he called her helena .
helena norton .
the letters hn ! ''
i whispered .
you got it , bucko . ''
i remember that too .
let me call up the video , i 've got it right here , '' coulter exclaimed excitedly .
the monitor image jumped to the streaming video recorded by my techno glasses when i was walking towards the bunker on top of etretat 's aval cliff , near the bunker , where our adventure had begun .
the video fast forwarded and i watched myself running through my paces .
norton called out to me , holding his small gun at waist height .
everyone saw me whip out my gun in a surprise move .
man , that was nervy , paul .
i 'd forgotten about that , '' stated an impressed coulter .
the video replayed norton 's key words first , it was my sister , helena .
then it was my friend horatio nolan .
then all the others , always the same .
everybody blamed me but they did n't understand .
it was all a game and i was stuck in it .
it was n't me .
they were wrong .
i just ca n't prove it .
and now he stole my file , everything i had on him .
but this time , the first time ever , i caught him .
i saw him .
the shadow killer .
he was leaving with my file under his arm and i saw him in the mirror , the door was open and he ...
he was me , he was me , ha ha ha , he was me , can you believe it ?
ha ha ha , what a perfect disguise . ''
i had found those words incomprehensible the first time i heard them , the ravings of a demented killer .
now , looking at them from a new perspective , his words took on new meaning .
everyone spoke up .
o'flanahan took control , talking louder than the rest , anxious to bring his point home .
something 's bugging me about what he said 'it was n't just my sister helena , but my friend horatio nolan , and all the others ' .
what others ? ''
coulter sprang into action , his fingers flashing on his keyboard .
i can check into that .
i 'll tap into the interpol files about norton . ''
he grinned .
i broke into their site weeks ago .
i knew there 'd be a good reason for it .
here we go . ''
he scanned the screen with a practiced eye and exclaimed wow , it was right there in front of us , all the time .
every one of the murdered victims had the initials hn .
henri nadeau .
honore noel .
the list goes on and on .
norton 's words are making sense all of a sudden . ''
o'flanahan continued spinning logical conclusions .
if norton was innocent , then the shadow killer had to be the one murdering everyone around norton with the initials hn , goading him into madness .
when paul 's parents were killed , their bodies twisted into those very letters , it would have drawn norton like a moth to a flame .
perhaps he never even knew about the hollow needle . ''
so , when he talked of seeing the shadow killer reflected in the mirror ... '' raymonde began .
the very thing which made us think he had two personalities , '' i continued , in tune with raymonde 's thoughts .
yes .
norton saw the shadow killer in the mirror , not himself .
he was n't making it up .
his words were those of a man driven mad by a killer haunting his footsteps for years .
it 's absolutely horrifying , '' she finished .
he was being primed until he was ready to explode .
it guaranteed the hn murders would be followed by an enraged cop ready to pounce on sirenne .
it was a set up , planned by the shadow killer , to lead the crazed norton directly to paul 's doorstep , '' o'flanahan continued .
o'flanahan , if that 's true , it also means the shadow killer was planning this thing fifteen years ago at least , when he killed norton 's sister .
i can read the date of her murder right here in the records .
whoever he is , he 's been planning this for a very , very long time , '' coulter said .
o'flanahan nodded , looking thoughtful .
i wonder how old the guy is ? ''
maybe the killer needed someone for us to blame , to focus on , in order to take our attention off what he was really doing , '' suggested briar .
that sounds exactly right , briar , '' supported o'flanahan .
it seems he has succeeded in his attempts , '' i added .
so far we still do n't know who he is , where he is and why he is there in the first place .
at least we know he is out there .
we can hopefully take measures to protect ourselves against him . ''
if we can find him .
he certainly lives up to his name .
he has successfully remained in the shadows , watching our every move , using us as puppets , '' stated coulter .
the only option available to us is to continue our efforts .
we might learn why the killer is prodding us .
he knows more than we do about this mystery .
i think he 's looking for something only we can provide .
until we find that , there is a fair chance we will remain safe , '' i reasoned .
i agree , paul .
the shadow killer has not attacked any of us personally to date .
as long as we keep doing what he wants , he will likely remain in the shadows .
it gives us a window of opportunity .
let us seize it and find some answers but let 's do it faster than he is expecting .
then , he will be in our shadow , '' briar added , as forceful and focused as ever .
we finished our online meeting on that note .
raymonde and i discussed the daily tasks ahead .
her late afternoon was clear but lunchtime was jammed with final meetings with department heads .
i had cleared my day in order to concentrate my efforts on examining the three hollow needle books , an area of research i was convinced held our answers .
i had even been dreaming about it .
now , i could put it off no longer .
paul sirenne chapter two deciphering the code i followed raymonde out to the electric golf cart .
she selected coulter 's cave from the list .
the vehicle was programmed to avoid objects and people , keeping the ride smooth all the while .
it took the recently installed lift in the center of the huge main circular staircase and went down two levels , then travelled along a side tunnel for a hundred meters .
weissmuller had built the place solidly and planned it well .
every level had one central hub , reached by the main staircase .
there were ten levels of caves , with each level having an average of seventy caves .
the deeper the level , the smaller the caves .
the lower cave levels had been designed as living quarters and many net members had moved in with their families .
the upper levels held community halls , main kitchens , hospital , meeting rooms and research centers .
our caves were located on the uppermost level .
there were more caves below the ten levels but those had neither been reached , nor explored .
they were to be the focus of future attention by briar 's archeological team .
raymonde dropped me off with a quick kiss , eager to go .
she had a meeting with jacques vallin , to talk about security .
i stood in front of coulter 's cave , holding my satchel .
he had chosen the location for its central placement in the cave complex and its proximity to the main wiring station .
through it , he could access all cave systems , controlling them remotely from his cave .
he had enough processing power in there to rival the cia .
i entered , finding coulter at the center of his command center , sitting on a wheeled stool , flitting from keyboard to keyboard , completely absorbed in his tasks .
i coughed , jolting him out of his concentration .
he jumped , swiveling around on his chair , and smiled sheepishly .
geez , paul , you scared me .
i was just putting the finishing touches on a dedicated search bot program .
i see you brought the books . ''
yes , finally .
our recent conversation has galvanized me .
i have allowed the day to day tasks to move my focus from where it should have remained .
meanwhile , the shadow killer keeps planning and sneaking around .
i do n't like it .
not at all ! ''
do n't blame yourself too much , paul .
organizing the fortress was necessary and you know it .
by bringing all that manpower in , we turned a tomb into a vibrant community , with everyone eager to help us solve this thing .
and i have a feeling we 're going to need them . ''
me too , '' i agreed .
although we have retaken control of the caves , we are no closer to solving why leblanc , lupin , and lindon developed such a complicated plan to get me here after sixty years ?
it seems like tremendous overkill .
they could just have left a simple note . ''
i know what you mean but you 're not considering all the facts .
there was a time element involved and it had to be dealt with .
leblanc could neither anticipate how many nazis would be in the caves , nor how many knew about them on the outside .
when he planned to poison the air in the caves , he planned for the long term .
he was going to make sure anyone invading the caves would die in them . ''
you 're right , of course , fabian .
time was necessary for the events to be forgotten .
throughout history the caves have always remained hidden , unnoticed .
yet they seem to have played a crucial role in history during the last two thousand years at least .
let 's not forget that weissmuller 's manuscript described repeated walling up of the entrances , attempts to hide the caves .
leblanc stated in his journal that he had been given the role of cave protector .
he felt the true task of understanding them would be left to another . ''
that would be you . ''
yes .
that would be me , thank you coulter .
it is hard to accept .
still , they gave us tons of money , a pile of clues and a loyal workforce to help us get here . ''
well , why do n't we start by working on these books of yours ? ''
sounds like a great idea . ''
want some coffee to start us off ?
yes ?
coming right up . ''
coulter busied himself in the kitchenette and returned with two steaming cups .
i accepted one with thanks , though i was n't thirsty .
where do you want me to place the books ? ''
i asked .
right on top of that glass surface over there .
i 'll scan them into the computer .
it 's a laborious process but once it 's done our analysis will proceed more easily . ''
i sipped my coffee , hardly tasting it , while he worked .
his computer digitized their exterior image down to the microscopic level .
he started scanning the inside of the first book but was interrupted by a crash outside his door , followed by a muffled 'sorry ' and several swear words .
the door opened to reveal a disheveled o'flanahan .
stupid electric golf carts , '' he complained acerbically .
what happened , o'flanahan ? ''
coulter asked , watching o'flanahan ineffectually swat his hair back in position with one hand .
they never told me not to grab the steering wheel .
stupid thing 's all automatic .
i hate that stuff .
i like to feel in control .
anyway , your door 's a bit dented but it still opens okay . ''
coulter returned to his scanning , shaking his head .
did you come here just to destroy my things ? ''
o'flanahan looked at coulter with a smug grin .
no , of course not .
i brought this as well . ''
he pulled out a tattered pile of folded paper sheets from his back pocket .
it was smudged with stains of dirt and food , ripped in several places .
coulter 's eyes bulged in his sockets .
is that leblanc 's journal ?
you 've , you 've destroyed it ! ''
he screamed , looking at the papers in horror .
relax already , coulter .
it 's a copy , fer chrissakes , '' o'flanahan replied , patting coulter lightly on the back in false sympathy .
thank god . ''
anyway , forgetting your antics , yes , i brought leblanc 's journal .
i told you i was studying it .
i had a feeling there was more to it and now i can prove it .
i figured out his code . ''
my mind flashed back to the day when raymonde and i found the journal , hidden inside a tomb , a carving of the worm ouroubouros on its stone container .
i mentally called up the journal , reviewing it rapidly .
you mean the code at the end of the journal .
there was a list of numbers , '' i said .
you got it , boyo , '' o'flanahan replied , looking insufferably pleased .
it was a code and i knew it had to relate to the journal somehow .
hey coulter , why do n't you make yourself useful and call up the journal on your big screen there , so we can all look at it ? ''
sure thing .
here it is . ''
ps ergo 5 8 1 , 10 8 2 , 22 1 8 , 27 4 4 , , 40 5 1 , 60 1 5 , 49 2 4 , , 71 9 1 , 75 13 2 , 33 6 2 , 97 1 6 , , 92 2 1 , 31 1 2 , 61 1 2 , 73 14 4 , 18 3 1 , , , 100 13 2 , 90 6 4 , 29 1 5 , 88 2 4 , , 24 2 1 , 66 2 2 , 62 4 3 , , 30 6 1 , 14 5 2 , 94 3 4 , , 69 5 1 , 31 7 9 , 87 6 6 , 20 1 1 , , 78 2 1 , 57 2 1 , 48 6 6 , 25 2 3 , 95 2 1 , , , 98 3 1 , 12 1 2 , 50 3 3 , 91 1 2 , 7 1 1 , , 38 9 1 , 89 1 3 , 19 2 1 , 41 5 1 , , 54 1 4 , 45 2 2 , 55 1 7 , , 82 6 4 , 16 1 2 , 53 6 3 , 8 2 6 , 42 1 2 , 93 6 2 , , 32 6 6 , 23 3 2 , 64 3 2 , 59 9 4 , , , sum 1p k4 , p k4 , 2 kt kb3 kt qb3 , 3 p q4 ktxp , 4 ktxkt pxkt , 5 b qb4 b b4 , 6 p qb3 q k2 , 7 o o q k4 , 8 p kb4 pxpch , 9 k r1 pxp o'flanahan explained his discovery , upping the volume of his voice automatically when he got more excited .
as you can see , the post scriptum is comprised of numbers that follow the same pattern .
one number , a dash , a second number , another dash and a final third number .
there is either a single comma or two commas between the numbers .
rarely , there is a third .
i started thinking of these numbers as coordinates , as a location where a specific letter might be found .
the code was encapsulated by two words , ergo and sum .
i figured they had to be the beginning and ending of the code .
looking in leblanc 's journal , i found the very same words , beginning and ending a specific section .
there were limits to each number set which gave me something to look for .
eventually , i found an approach that worked perfectly .
if you number the lines of leblanc 's journal , a standard practice done to refer easily to any part of a document , then the code begins to make sense . ''
numbered ?
what are you talking about o'flanahan ? ''
coulter asked .
using ergo as a starting point , i numbered each line sequentially , including the blank lines .
this gave me the first number of the coded pattern .
the second number indicated which word was to be selected in that line .
finally , the last number indicated which letter of the word was to be selected .
the end of the sequence was indicated by the word sum , after which there was a smaller section using a different code .
anyway , when i wrote down the decoded letters in order , i found the commas served a purpose as well .
one comma meant next letter .
two commas meant next word and finally three commas meant next sentence .
with this figured out , i was able to figure out leblanc 's message . ''
find the four books .
read between the lines .
look for the lost caves .
start with the lindon book .
the second code is , i believe , chess notation , a short game , apparently , '' i exclaimed , unable to stop myself .
my two friends stared at me , a stunned look on their faces .
sirenne , you stole my thunder again .
how in blazes did you do it ? ''
o'flanahan complained .
i could hardly explain it to myself , let alone them .
as soon as o'flanahan had mentioned the numbering of the paragraphs , i had started a search for the coded letter in leblanc 's journal , in an incredible mental whirlwind .
everything i visualized was in extreme detail .
faster and faster , i ran through the coded sequence , until i had the answer .
the entire process had taken less than a few seconds .
it felt like my memory had become photographic and that my mental processing speed had increased a hundredfold .
it 's hard to explain .
i seem to be able to connect things much faster than i used to , '' i said , failing to express the true level of consternation i felt .
i 'll say .
that 's near genius level , paul , '' coulter said .
but let 's look at what you figured out . ''
you mean what i figured out .
sirenne stole it from me , '' argued o'flanahan .
who cares , o'flanahan .
i just want to know what it means , '' coulter shot back .
it means we 're on the right track .
leblanc left us a coded trail .
the first line of the message , find the four books , must refer to the four identical hollow needle books .
it is where we must start .
our own research had led us there already .
the purpose of this very meeting is to examine the three books we do have and decide our next step .
i suspect the next parts of the message , read between the lines , look for the lost caves , and the chess game reference , will be easier to understand once we have found the fourth book .
of those we already have , one i was given when i was nine .
the second my father sent to me before he was killed and the third comes from leblanc , handed down to mrs leblanc as part of her inheritance .
the fourth book , the one still missing , must logically come from raymond lindon .
it can only be him .
remember , we are dealing with a very small circle of people who could have been given one of these books .
lindon is the last of the group .
even leblanc 's coded section points us in lindon 's direction with that chess notation .
it ca n't be coincidence , '' i said .
coulter switched the image on his giant monitor , with a section from another journal .
the neat , precise script identified it as the weissmuller 's manuscript .
weissmuller mentioned he investigated lindon 's home and found nothing .
the good thing is that it took him hours to figure out the mechanism leading to the hidden tunnels .
i watched you figure that thing out in no more than fifteen minutes .
maybe you can succeed where weissmuller failed .
i say we go to lindon 's house and see if we ca n't find ourselves that fourth book . ''
o'flanahan slapped coulter on the left shoulder hard , agreeing with exuberance that 's what i like to hear .
i 'm with you on this one .
i 'm tired of being cooped up in here anyway .
i need some fresh air . ''
i nodded my head .
sounds like just the thing .
why do n't you set it up with jacques vallin ?
we need to get that sub . ''
i 'm on it already , paul , '' coulter snapped back , his fingers flashing on the keyboard .
paul sirenne chapter three the villa lindon it was good to see jacques vallin again .
i spoke to him online often enough but rarely in person .
he and his brother were very busy , having taken on the running of the argos and the development of our fledgling security force .
after the norton attack , vallin had organized a team of bodyguards , assigned when i went out of the caves .
i thought these precautions unnecessary but vallin was adamant .
as a result , my every travel outside had to be orchestrated .
thanks for doing this on such short notice . ''
hey , you 're the boss , mr paul .
we were just about to start a training exercise anyway . ''
vallin steered the sub upwards , approaching our landing point off the beach , a platform built for that express purpose .
i 've called ahead and they are waiting for us with a limousine at the beach , '' he added .
a limousine ? ''
i complained .
like it or not , you 're the most important man in these parts .
everyone here knows how special you are .
you deserve to be treated like this and they all expect it .
anyway , the limousine is armored , which is why we are going to use it .
it 's already arranged , '' vallin finished , his tone brooking no further argument .
the sub broke the water 's surface and we slid in smoothly next to the platform .
after exiting , we were ferried to the beach by speed boat and loaded into the big car after a brief greeting with the huge ives vallin .
he informed us the lindon villa was being cleared for our arrival .
a car following us held two bodyguards .
two more sat in the front seat of our car .
they were tight lipped , keeping a respectful silence , intent on their task .
while we drove through the small streets of etretat , i noted the presence of monks , here and there among the tourists .
what are all those monks doing here , jacques ? ''
there 's a week long convention that just started .
why they picked etretat as their site is a mystery to me . ''
o'flanahan shook his head and made a face .
a monk convention ?
now i 've heard of everything .
i thought they had a vow of silence or something . ''
apparently not all of them , o'flanahan , '' retorted coulter .
there sure are a lot , though .
i never thought of monks as plentiful . ''
we should have eaten before we left .
i 'm hungry , '' o'flanahan continued , sliding into a new complaint without skipping a beat .
come on , o'flanahan , we 're almost there .
we 'll eat later .
maybe you can find a baguette in lindon 's kitchen , '' coulter shot back , eager to get on with the great hunt .
i do n't want a baguette .
i want some good cave food , '' o'flanahan retorted , unwilling to be put off .
well , ca n't blame you there .
that chef is pretty good , '' replied coulter , licking his lips absent mindedly while peering through the limousine window .
a few minutes later , the limousine pulled to a stop at the end of a long private driveway , in front of the majestic lindon villa .
the guards were already running into position , two of them hurrying across the grounds and the other two taking their posts at the door .
that left the five of us free to enter the villa and begin our exploration .
i 've been here before , '' jacques vallin said .
me too , brother , me too , '' added ives , tagging along behind jacques .
i know that , brother , you were with me at the time . ''
oh , yes .
sorry . ''
anyway , i meant to say that i know my way around a bit .
what is it we are looking for ? ''
jacques asked us .
a chessboard , '' i answered .
vallin grew pensive .
i do n't remember seeing a chessboard here . ''
me neither , '' added ives .
enough of this time wasting , '' muttered o'flanahan .
let 's just spread out and look around .
well find something soon enough .
i can smell it . ''
we split up , activating our glasses to stay in contact .
the place was huge .
it might take a long time to find something the clever weissmuller had missed .
i walked through the first floor left wing , while trying to figure out where the chessboard might be .
if lindon had really hidden a book here , he would have made sure that the clues remained after his passing .
the chessboard had to be part of the house , something not easily removed or altered .
however weissmuller had failed to find it .
he may have been a psychopathic serial killer but his intellect had never been in doubt .
i entered into a huge room , with hanging chandeliers and large windows .
it could have been a ballroom .
i continued my exploration , arriving in the main dining hall , where no less than twenty chairs surrounded a long table .
a small door at the edge of the room caught my eye .
a servant 's door .
around the beginning of the twentieth century , servants played an important but invisible role .
even today , aristocrats tended to act as if their servants were not there .
there and not there at the same time .
leblanc liked to use the same idea in his puzzles .
could lindon and leblanc have anticipated weissmuller 's attitudes towards servants ?
going through the servant 's door , i found a small room , probably a staging area for the meals , which led to a narrow staircase going down one level into the main kitchen , located in the middle of the servant 's quarters .
centered in the square room was a massive wooden block table , with ancient stoves lining one wall and counters on another .
the tiled floor was worn and stained .
something about it drew my attention .
some of the tiles seemed to have a different look than the others .
it was very faint .
enhancing the floor with my techno glasses , i noticed a section where every alternating tile had slightly darker inclusions .
i counted the tiles .
eight on one side and eight on the other .
it was the chessboard .
boosting the glasses ' magnification to maximum , i noticed the tiles had a production stamp located on the right upper corner .
in some of them , the stamp differed subtly .
i made out various stylized shapes , here a horse head , there a bishop 's hat .
i was looking at chess symbols , not production stamps .
on the nearest tile was the symbol of a pawn and there , next to it , another pawn .
below it , a rook .
shoving the large block table aside easily , i exposed the entire chessboard .
excited , i used my techno glasses to call my friends .
by the time they arrived , i had drawn up a chessboard on a piece of paper and marked the position of each chess piece as indicated by the floor layout .
my friends looked alternatively at the exposed floor and my diagram .
you found it , '' coulter said , stating the obvious .
i knew it would be you . ''
stop patting the guy on the back he 's going to get a swelled head , '' o'flanahan complained .
i think we are looking at a chess game in progress , '' i explained .
the chess notation from the leblanc journal leads to this exact point in the game . ''
what does this tell us then ?
the game 's not even over , '' worried o'flanahan .
no , you do n't get it , o'flanahan .
man , those guys were clever , '' admired coulter .
they gave us some clues all right but we have to continue the game to find the right square . ''
i examined the game .
black was setting up a pawn attack , backed up by his queen .
white would have none of it and had countered with a pawn move , directly threatening black 's queen .
white was now perfectly positioned for an attack on black 's king , using his bishop , which could lead to a checkmate for black .
lindon and leblanc had left us at a crucial position in the game .
there seems to be a lot of symbolism in this game , which , oddly enough , reflects our own situation , '' i explained .
go on , '' coulter prodded .
black thinks he 's on the attack but , if he proceeds , he will lose his queen .
if he retreats , he saves his queen but loses the advantage .
that must be the key .
all along , leblanc and lindon made great sacrifices in their quest for the caves .
if we want to succeed in our path and win the game , we have to make sacrifices as well .
in order to reveal our book 's location , we must risk that our queen may die and go on the attack .
our book is hidden here , under this tile . ''
are you sure , paul ? ''
asked o'flanahan .
ai am positive , '' i answered .
i have finally remembered where i have seen this game before .
this is a famous game , taught to me by my father when i was nine .
this game was played , and won , by napoleon bonaparte in 1820 , in the city of st helena .
the opponent was count bernard .
we must look here . ''
jacques vallin needed no further prodding and dropped to his knees , his hand pulling out one of his knives .
he scraped the edge of the tile , removing grime and mortar .
it flaked off easily , revealing an unsuspected thickness to the tile .
jacques motioned for ives to help , handing him another knife .
they removed the last of the mortar , confirming that the tile was a deep ceramic block .
wedging the two knives against the sides , the brothers carefully levered the block out .
coulter brought it to the woodblock table .
amazing , me boy .
i do n't think it took you more than five minutes this time .
you 're getting faster , '' o'flanahan admitted .
i 'll say , '' coulter agreed .
i flipped the ceramic block over , revealing a neatly fitted lid .
finding its edge on one side , i applied slight pressure with my fingers , trying to slide it open .
something snapped .
feeling looseness , i slid the lid off , looking inside .
it was empty .
what the heck is this ? ''
o'flanahan yelled with frustration .
somebody 's been here before us .
that has to be the answer .
someone was here and took the book , '' i exclaimed , unable to hide the disappointment i felt .
hey , do n't blame yourself , paul .
you did everything right .
the only problem was someone else did it before you , '' coulter added in sympathy .
paul sirenne chapter four father plantagenet jacques vallin 's hand whipped up to his ear .
we 've got a problem . ''
what 's going on ? ''
i asked .
the monks we saw earlier .
they are converging towards the lindon villa , swarming out of the woods like rats .
my men are running back towards the house . ''
let 's go , '' i said .
we 'll rejoin the bodyguards on the first floor .
perhaps we 'll find safety in numbers .
have them meet us by the main entrance to the villa . ''
we ran up the stairs , back through the main dining room into the reception hall .
two of the bodyguards were waiting for us .
where are the others ? ''
o'flanahan rasped .
we do n't know .
they were with us when we started running but they were gone by the time we reached the door . ''
great .
this is getting better and better . ''
o'flanahan asked .
i looked outside cautiously , peering through the hallway drapes .
there were at least a hundred monks walking inexorably closer to the villa .
more were pouring out of the woods .
aa monk convention !
i should have known , '' exclaimed jacques vallin .
i 'm really sorry , mr paul . ''
no need to be , jacques .
it 's not your fault .
let 's wait and see what happens .
everybody keep quiet . ''
more monks arrived until they formed a solid wall in front of the house .
i could see our missing bodyguards , held by several monks but otherwise unharmed .
a single monk walked forward from the mass and approached the main entrance .
removing his hood , he revealed a wizened face topped by a faint wisp of thin , white hair .
paul sirenne .
i know you are in there .
please come out .
it is time for us to talk . ''
i looked at my friends in surprise .
do n't you go out there , mr paul , '' cautioned ives vallin , hovering protectively next to me .
you will not be harmed , mr sirenne .
please come out , '' the monk continued .
paul , be careful , '' cautioned coulter , looking worried .
i 'll be all right . ''
i reassured him .
i want you to stay here .
i wo n't really be alone , i 'll be wearing these . ''
i pointed to my techno glasses .
coulter nodded knowingly , a small smile on his face .
well , be careful anyway , '' he replied .
seeing no point in hesitating any further , i walked out the front door and marched down the steps towards the old monk .
my fears faded as soon as i approached the old man .
his face held a wide smile and his eyes looked without guile , filled with curiosity .
he seemed to be almost eighty years of age .
you wanted me here , you got me here .
now , what was it you wanted to talk about ? ''
i said , confronting him with a bravado i did not feel .
relax , mr sirenne .
i am not your enemy . ''
who are you then ? ''
my name is father plantagenet .
i am the head of an organization known as the abbey .
we did n't expect you to come here this quickly .
luckily , we were alerted to your early presence and managed to react in time , with our 'convention ' .
we thought it might be time to , uhm , to introduce ourselves . ''
and what would the abbey want with me ? ''
why to say hello , of course , and to provide you with some pertinent history about our background . ''
sounds like a great idea .
i 'd like to know what is going on . ''
the abbey has been around for a very long time .
it has deep history .
our origin dates back to the beginning of the tenth century .
while originally a monastery , our order 's mission statement dramatically changed after a mysterious incident with one of the founding members .
since that time , we have been gathering information and dedicating ourselves to keeping safe what special knowledge we had gathered .
over many centuries , our order has kept evolving until it began brokering information for others , a funding approach to provide us with the resources we require to keep at our sacred task .
now , i am sure you are wondering what an organization such as ours would be doing here , talking with you .
during more recent history , in 1912 , in fact , the abbey entered into a limited partnership with maurice leblanc and raymond lindon . ''
his face brightened with delight upon seeing the consternation on my own .
this is a surprise ? ''
yes , it is .
leblanc seems to have kept many things to himself . ''
the caves of etretat among them , no doubt . ''
you know about the caves then ? ''
but of course , mr sirenne .
our order has known of them for centuries .
we even know what you are doing there , you and your net .
yes , we know about them as well .
the abbey played a key role in helping the net protect this little valley during the earlier parts of this century .
when hitler attacked the town with his henchman , weissmuller , during world war 1 , we were the ones who provided the net with advance warning of their approach .
despite our precautions , he almost succeeded in his goals .
when leblanc took possession of the caves , we made sure he learned of our order and of our purpose . ''
and what is your purpose , if i may ask ? ''
today , it is to make your acquaintance and to give you this . ''
the old monk pulled out a bizarre looking key and a business card , handing them to me .
looking on the back of the card revealed two long numbers .
975w xjy89 5lrm 6720b rrr43 773,462,823.37 what are these ? ''
the card is , of course , for you to use , should you want to contact me for any reason .
i will remain at your service , mr sirenne , please believe that .
it is in our common interest that i do so .
on the back of the card , the first number you see is an account located in a bank in geneva , held for you until your arrival in etretat , at the request of mr leblanc in 1938 .
the number below the account is the amount of funds held in that account .
the key will become useful at the proper time .
guard it well .
there is not another like it in the entire world . ''
i looked at the astronomical number on the back of the card .
the number represented overwhelming riches .
the caves had held far more wealth than i ever imagined .
it is time for you to stop playing games and look at what is really going on , to focus on the bigger picture .
you have woken the caves , mr sirenne , and may well have begun the endgame .
you must realize you have been selected to play a key role in coming events .
you can not permit yourself to ignore how crucial your every move may be .
our order was retained in 1912 to offer you and yours a measure of protection and we now make that offer once more , to the net and to you , an offer of allegiance and partnership . ''
father plantagenet , thank you for your trust in me . ''
this has nothing to do with trust .
whether you realize it or not , our two organizations are aligned .
we both march down the same path .
these caves you have occupied have been around for millions of years .
they hold history you can not begin to comprehend , or accept .
you are a usurper , mr sirenne .
another , of whom i may not speak at this time , owns the caves .
you have invaded his caves and one day , he will return to take them back .
you must be ready for his arrival and , in this pursuit , we offer our help .
we have many resources and knowledge , which we will reveal when the time is right . ''
why not tell me now and save me all the trouble ? ''
some knowledge must be earned through experience , mr sirenne .
until you have traveled the path you are on to its conclusion , you will simply not be ready to accept what i have to tell you .
however , you must mark my words the time is coming when you will be sorely tested .
what you choose to do may well determine the fate of the entire world itself . ''
his words struck me to my core .
i was being told that everything might hinge on what i chose to do .
to complicate matters , yet another person was involved , the 'true owner ' of the caves .
unfortunately , ambiguity veiled the father 's every word .
you are throwing a lot of responsibility on my shoulders . ''
what you see as responsibility , i see as a boon , mr sirenne , a chance to free mankind of the shackles of true evil . ''
what of the allegiance you offer ? ''
while my words may be unclear on some matters , on this my meaning is plain .
the abbey wishes to help you protect the caves and keep ownership of them .
we can train your net to be more effective , to be ready for the others who are sure to come . ''
the others ?
what are you talking about ? ''
mr sirenne , there are many organizations , many countries , interested in what the caves might be hiding .
some of them have been looking for years , others for centuries .
once they discover what you are holding , they will want to take it from you .
your net must be prepared , you must be prepared , for this inevitable eventuality .
you can not avoid this , it is too late .
your only hope is to see it through and we intend to be there to help , to be at your side in your hour of glory . ''
we had a head start , already in possession of the caves , and our team was working hard to assemble the clues that would lead us to success .
would that be enough ?
i accept your offer , father plantagenet with one stipulation .
your responsibility is strictly outside .
you may assist to protect the caves but they will always remain my domain . ''
i would want it no other way , mr sirenne .
thank you for accepting my offer .
you have made the right choice .
my men will be in touch to arrange training for the net .
i will now take my leave .
i am sure i have already overstayed my welcome .
figure out where to use that key .
you may find what you are missing . ''
father plantagenet stuck out his hand and i shook it , finalizing our new agreement .
for better or worse , i had just taken on a new partner .
i hoped raymonde would n't be too mad .
replacing the hood over his head , the old monk rejoined the rest of his men , disappearing in the sea of monks .
my guards were released and the monks left at a rapid pace , regaining the forest and roads from which they had come .
i returned to the villa 's main door .
my friends were removing their techno glasses .
well at least this outing did n't turn out to be a complete wash , '' o'flanahan stated sarcastically .
we 've got the monks on our side ! ''
paul sirenne chapter five the shadow killer attacks the argos surfaced in the cave lagoon next to the ancient nazi flagship submarine , an inheritance from adolf hitler .
a team of specialists had carefully restored it .
the process cost less money than buying a new one , especially one with a skin of solid gold .
its design was feral , made for speed , with its bow sticking out at a rakish angle .
it had been taken out by briar on a test voyage during his trip to england .
we exited the sub and walked up the landing plank .
i was leading the group , anxious to return to coulter 's caves in order to examine the three books .
i was ascending the stairs , deep in thought , when i heard raymonde shout get away from me .
what do you think you are ... no ...
stop ! ''
i looked around in alarm .
did any of you hear that ? ''
hear what , mr paul ? ''
asked ives vallin .
help me someone stop , paul .
help me . ''
it 's raymonde , she 's in danger .
i ca n't explain it but i 'm hearing her .
we 've got to get to her now .
jacques , coulter use those glasses , get her some help , i 'm going after her . ''
i galloped up the stairs at a frantic pace , leaving them all behind .
scurrying to the top in moments , i ran down the hall to the main entry hub , smashing the hallway doors out of my way .
i kept hearing raymonde scream , her anger and rage coming through .
i had a feeling she was running , although i could n't explain why .
there were people in the hallways and rooms i ran through , all standing still .
i wove around them as best i could .
how could i rescue raymonde when i had no clue where she was ?
in a crystal clear flash , her location came to me .
she was close to the main kitchen and cafeteria , five levels above .
people would be in the cafeteria , people and safety .
i felt her fear and even bafflement .
she was running .
how did i know that ?
i redoubled my speed .
arriving at the bottom of the main circular staircase leading to the top of the buried fortress , i saw the lift lowering ponderously .
the thought of waiting for its arrival was untenable .
i looked behind for my friends , convinced they were right on my heels but saw no one .
i continued up the stairs , jumping three steps at a time , my goal clear .
to save raymonde .
although i was speeding up the stairs at an insane pace , i felt full of energy and knew i could up the pace further still .
i really poured it on , my legs a smooth blur beneath me .
i felt a spark of hope , somehow coming from raymonde .
i tried to send her a burst of reassurance .
it connected , my emotions sliding through and touching her mind .
i was almost there .
i broke into the cafeteria , knocking the door off its hinges , heedless of its presence .
she was running directly towards me .
on the other side of the large cave , a few other people were hurrying out of the kitchen in alarm .
her eyes grew wide with relief and we fell into each other 's arms .
i felt you , in my head , '' she said , her fear dissipating .
me too .
i ca n't explain it , '' i replied .
are you all right ? ''
i am now .
i was attacked by the shadow killer . ''
a strong burst of anger welled up and i went to run after him .
she restrained me .
it 's too late , he 's gone .
just before running into the cafeteria , i risked a glance backwards .
i saw him standing absolutely still for a moment , looking at me .
then he turned and ran , vanishing down the corridor .
it was horrible , paul .
it was you .
the shadow killer came disguised as you . ''
my heart jumped .
this twisted murderer was using our trust against us .
i hugged her tightly , kissing the top of her raven haired head , then her mouth , my lips sticking to hers like glue .
the inner bond flared into life again .
what is happening to us , paul ? ''
she whispered , her bafflement echoing through our connection .
i do n't know but i do n't mind it , even if i ca n't explain it .
i can feel you inside . ''
me too .
and i think the link is getting stronger . ''
coulter , o'flanahan and the vallin brothers burst into the cafeteria , each more out of breath than the other .
seeing raymonde in my arms , their immediate concerns assuaged , they examined me with extreme curiosity , stopping to investigate the broken door lying on the ground .
we 'll talk more about this later , okay ? ''
yes , '' she responded , greeting our friends warmly .
they barely looked at her , still focused on me .
all right guys , what is it ?
what 's up ? ''
ives vallin was the first to reply , holding his beret in his hands and twisting it nervously .
it 's just that you sure took off mighty fast , mr paul .
i 've never seen the like .
we could n't keep up with you . ''
none of us could , '' added jacques vallin .
i 'm a good runner , mr paul , i always won all the races .
but i could n't hold a candle next to you .
you were gone , just like that . ''
not only that , we get to the main stairs , totally out of breath , and we see you way up there , already an incredible feat , but then you speed up and literally fly up the next two levels , '' coulter added .
best of all , sirenne , is that door .
did you take a look at it ? ''
exclaimed o'flanahan , his hand pointing at the twisted metal .
it 's totally wrecked .
you sheared those hinge pins , did you know that ? ''
they all stood there , their arms crossed , waiting for an explanation , one which i was at a loss to provide .
in retrospect , i realized my mad scramble had an element of the impossible to it .
how had i been able to run that fast ?
o'flanahan was right , that door was destroyed .
i could see the twisted frame from here .
i had heard before of adrenaline infused strength but i had not felt any of that .
it had all seemed rather effortless .
my heart had not been pumping fast , i had never run out of breath , the door had smashed away without difficulty or pain .
looking at my hands , i could see no evidence of bruising , no broken or reddened skin .
i was fine .
in fact , i felt great .
guys , i do n't know what to say .
what i did seems impossible now that i look back on it but there is too much at stake to spend a lot of time on this .
raymonde was attacked by the shadow killer .
she says he came disguised as me . ''
the bastard ! ''
raged o'flanahan , as we heard a door slam in the background .
it was briar , looking alarmed , having torn himself away from his inaugural digging .
his knees were smudged and he was holding a small trowel , not even aware it was still in his hand .
he ran to us , the relief showing in his dirt stained face .
coulter called me .
i came as fast as i could , given the state of these old bones of mine . ''
i think you had your mind on other bones , if you were to ask me , '' o'flanahan commented acerbically .
o'flanahan , please !
this dig is extremely important you can not imagine what it may reveal . ''
hey , relax , briar .
i just meant you missed all the fun .
while you were digging up dirt , we went out , found the hiding spot where lindon hid his copy of the hollow needle , then lost it , because somebody took it before us .
you also missed meeting old father plantagenet and his two hundred monks , who had just stopped by to say hello so they could give sirenne a huge fortune along with the keys to the kingdom , if we heard them right .
that 's got to be better than dry old bones . ''
briar was not easily deterred from his point .
actually no , not this time , o'flanahan .
if i 'm right about what my preliminary findings imply , i think i may have found something even more meaningful than that .
i can not risk speaking about it until i have done further confirmation work .
however , i am quite glad to see that miss raymonde is fine .
what has happened ?
the information coulter sent seemed somewhat disjointed . ''
why do n't we let raymonde tell us , '' i suggested .
and let 's eat while we 're at it .
we ran all this way to get to the cafeteria .
would n't be right not to eat .
i do n't mind telling you i 'm famished , '' admitted o'flanahan .
jacques vallin took our orders and went off to get the food with his brother .
we sat down at a table and listened to raymonde i had just returned to our home cave .
it was early afternoon .
i sat down to do a bit of last minute scheduling , when i heard the cave door open softly .
i turned around and saw you standing there , paul .
i was baffled because i did n't expect you back for a short while yet .
i stood up and said hello but you did n't answer me , you just walked forward in silence , getting closer and closer .
your approach felt creepy , wrong somehow .
the more you drew near , the more apprehension i felt .
looking into your eyes , i saw through the deception .
these were not your eyes .
this was not you ! ''
she said , uttering the last word with anguish .
the vallin brothers returned with several plates .
we ate as raymonde continued her tale .
i could barely pick at my food , still too excited .
by now , i was standing up , scared and baffled at the same time .
if this was not paul , who could it be ?
there could be only one possibility .
it had to be the shadow killer .
if he was here , it was to kill me .
i heard him utter 'sirenne 's queen ' .
his mouth moved strangely when he spoke and his voice was raspy , glacial .
i think his face , your face , paul , was a mask .
he pounced , his hands sweeping up like claws .
i screamed and twisted to the right with a speed born from fear , his grasping hands barely missing my neck .
i let myself drop down in a crouch and jumped to the right , away from him , vaulting into the air briefly and landing at a dead run .
i ran straight for the open cave door , reaching it in seconds .
scared for my life , i ran all out , looking back at him for the briefest of moments .
seeing a glint of steel in his hand , a knife , i knew he meant to use it on me .
i felt a strong blow to my shoulder and looked down , seeing a knife clatter to the floor .
he had thrown it at me but , luckily , it was a bad throw .
i desperately swiped at it , grasping its handle with the tip of my fingers .
victorious , i stood up and threw it back at him with all the strength i could muster .
my aim was dead on but , instead of avoiding the knife , the shadow killer stood rock still , letting it hit him .
i watched the knife bounce off his chest and fall harmlessly to the floor . ''
he must have been wearing a kevlar vest , '' suggested briar .
i do n't know but it certainly terrified me .
that knife throw had been my best chance to stop him and it had failed .
i must have screamed in frustration then but it did not prevent me from running again , as fast as i possibly could .
i heard him coming after me but did not dare look behind me .
a misstep would be the end of me .
i could hear him , he was inexorably getting closer .
if i continued down the corridor , he would catch me i knew there were four cave entrances coming up .
two were small , for storage , but the other two were used by briar 's team as examination stations for his finds .
both caves connected to a larger cave in the back .
i had to make it to the cafeteria but it was still a long way off .
i had to lose the shadow killer now .
i kept up my pace , speeding up past the first two storage caves , really laying it on when i turned around the sharp bend in the corridor .
my feet went out from under me but , somehow , my rubber soles found some grip and i managed to keep going , scrambling to the first of the joined caves .
thankfully , the door was open and i flew in , looking frantically around , trying to figure out where the tunnel connecting to the anterior cave was .
i spied it at the furthest corner on the right , and headed there , dodging around the tables desperately .
i had almost navigated my way through the cave when i heard a noise .
i dropped to the floor in fear , knowing it had to be the shadow killer .
peering through the steel table legs , i saw him by the entrance , standing absolutely still .
suddenly his head turned , his cold eyes locking right on mine .
he dropped flat to the ground and i lost sight of him .
two tables moved slightly .
he was snaking along the ground , moving fast .
i had to get out of there .
i turned around and frantically made my way to the tunnel leading to the back cave .
reaching it , i risked a final glance behind me , seeing nothing at all .
the shadow killer had vanished .
i ran down the access tunnel , quickly arriving into the anterior cave .
it was filled with industrial shelving , heavily loaded with countless wooden boxes .
i made my way to the far cave wall , running past several rows of shelves .
i hugged the wall tightly and kept running , knowing i would come across the second connecting tunnel eventually .
finding it , i turned into it and ran madly , hoping the shadow killer would waste time looking for me in the anterior cave .
i tried to stay as quiet as i could in the narrow tunnel , stopping abruptly at its mouth , feeling an unexplainable apprehension .
my peripheral vision caught a movement coming fast on my right .
i instinctively ducked , lifting up my right arm in a blocking stance .
i felt a jarring blow stopping the killer 's arm , his knifepoint inches from my face .
he put incredible pressure on my arm , trying to force the knife straight into my mouth .
he had known of the second tunnel and had gone the other way to trap me !
the knife point slipped forward , almost touching my lips .
i pushed back at him hard , adrenaline fueling my strength , distancing the knifepoint from my face .
i braced myself against the tunnel wall and kneed him in the groin .
it was a solid , bone jarring blow yet he acted as if he had not even felt it .
my attack had changed our position slightly , making him move further into the tunnel , and his knife was no longer aiming directly at me .
he tried to pull it back in position .
i followed my groin blow with a kick , knocking the shadow killer 's left foot out from under him .
i was resting against the tunnel wall , giving me stability , but he was out in the open , hovering over me .
coming back with my foot , i kicked his other leg and he fell sideways , to the left .
he recovered , slashing at me in a long sweeping stroke , the cutting edge of his knife glinting in the yellow cave light .
i desperately jumped along the tunnel wall , distancing myself from his reach but not quickly enough , '' raymonde showed us her shirt , displaying a long horizontal slash at the bottom .
i felt the tickle of the blade against my stomach but i managed to avoid being sliced open .
i ran to the table nearest me and jumped over it .
turning around frantically , i pushed at the table with all my strength , just as the shadow killer stood up , looking at me with those dead , impassive eyes .
before he could move out from the tunnel entrance , i slammed the table into his mid section , throwing him back into the narrow passage , then jammed the table in after him , lifting it up and blocking the entire tunnel opening .
it clattered into place , scraping past a rock projection on the ceiling , snapping back up once it was past , wedged tightly into place .
he was banging on the table , his blows shaking it mightily .
i raced to the entrance of the cave and flew down the hall at breakneck speed , aiming straight for the cafeteria , now within attainable distance .
i looked back one final time and saw him standing there briefly , before he vanished back into the shadows .
that was when i knew i would make it , '' she finished .
i slipped my arm around her , comforting her .
it 's amazing you survived through that , '' coulter sympathized .
but it 's alarming to learn the shadow killer is now here , with us , in the caves .
how did he get in ? ''
maybe he 's one of us , '' suggested the conspiracy minded o'flanahan .
no , i do n't think so , '' retorted briar .
did any of you note how the shadow killer anticipated raymonde 's deception with my sorting caves ?
it demonstrates he is quite familiar in here , far more than any of us .
he has been here before , whereas we are new arrivals .
what i can not understand is why he chose to come out of the shadows at this moment . ''
i think the answer to that question is obvious , '' i asserted .
we can not forget napoleon bonaparte 's chess game in the lindon villa .
it was a trick play .
napoleon attacked the queen but it was a false attack , hiding an attack on the king .
symbolically , you could say that i am the king of these caves and you could also say that raymonde is my queen . ''
that 's devious thinking , me boy , '' stated o'flanahan , a smile on his face .
makes me proud of you .
do you seriously think the shadow killer is that devious as well ? ''
he 's proven it already .
he started his plan at least fifteen years ago , when he murdered norton 's sister .
we know he came on the plane with me , disguised as harry stiles , killed for his flight ticket .
we know he was dogging norton 's every step , driving him madder with every new hn murder .
i think we are just touching the tip of the iceberg .
the killer has a definite agenda and his attack on raymonde was part of it .
by trying to kill my 'queen ' , he has stated in no uncertain terms that we are embarked on the same game in real life .
the attack on raymonde conceals an attack on me , '' i paused , looking at raymonde .
had you died , he may well have succeeded .
your loss might have been too much to bear .
who knows what i would have done . ''
she gazed tenderly at me for a moment .
i think you are right paul .
the shadow killer is playing a game with us , '' she said .
he must need something only paul can provide , '' coulter suggested .
why else would he involve us in his affairs ?
the shadow killer is taking terrible risks by hovering so closely . ''
i do n't know about you guys but i ca n't get those monks out of my mind , '' added o'flanahan .
who the heck are they ?
why did leblanc ally himself with them and why did he keep that connection to himself ?
what about that strange key ?
then , there 's your increased speed and strength , paul .
no way is that normal .
all of this is pointing to some much deeper conspiracy .
hitler dying in these caves might end up a mere taste test in comparison . ''
they made sense and it worried me .
the great hunt was taking more serious turns by the second .
we need to stop messing around .
i feel like my head is buried in the sand and all these separate incidents are screaming at me to pull it out .
i consider today 's outing almost a joke now .
all along , the shadow killer was laughing at us , while we went on our merry way , ignoring what was at stake .
he used our absence to try and kill raymonde , in an attempt to drive his point home .
thank god he failed .
so we 're going to change our approach , right here , right now !
i want a meeting tomorrow morning with all of you .
that meeting will last until we know what we are dealing with .
i want you to come prepared .
so do your research , drum up some theories and come ready to do this .
jacques , i want you to call up father plantagenet right away and arrange for some extra protection .
i also want you to assign the submarine responsibilities to someone else immediately . ''
i 've been training the son of a friend .
he 'd do pretty good . ''
excellent .
you and your brother will become responsible for overseeing the protection of this place .
hire and buy what you need , get your training from the monks but do n't trust them too much . ''
sure thing mr paul .
listen , i want to post some guards at your door tonight as well .
it might sound like overkill . ''
no , do it .
no more taking chances .
assign some to each of the others here , o'flanahan , briar , coulter , all of us . ''
but ... '' briar objected .
i cut him off .
no buts .
it 's time to take the threat seriously .
the shadow killer is moving among us , completely hidden .
we can worry about a better approach tomorrow .
for now , it will have to be bodyguards . ''
i looked at my friends , my meaning plain .
what if the killer returned tonight , to finish the job while we slept ?
what if , frustrated by his failure with raymonde , he chose another one of us ?
raymonde , contact the medical staff and schedule an appointment for me in the morning , about an hour before the meeting .
let 's pin down what 's happening to my body .
it has to be related , '' i added .
what about my digging and those possible results ? ''
briar interrupted sorry but , for the moment , i think we have more immediate concerns .
that does n't mean i have forgotten about what you alluded to .
as soon as we can , i want you back on those digs .
history has played a large part in these caves .
what you uncover may lead us to important answers , '' i replied i am sure of it .
very well , i will do as you ask .
we must focus on what the game is about before we can play it , particularly when your queen is in danger , '' he returned .
you have it exactly , briar .
well , i think that 's it for now .
tomorrow , we will solve this thing .
tonight , it 's time for some research and maybe some rest . ''
paul sirenne chapter six a talk and a dream raymonde and i were sitting back on our sofa , enjoying the muted quietness of the cave .
even the yellow fungus light seemed pleasant .
we were trying to forget about the two impassive bodyguards sitting in the next room .
two more were outside , monitoring the corridor .
jacques vallin had taken me at my word .
a week ago , coulter had installed a huge flatscreen monitor in our living room .
right now , it displayed a real time view of the crashing waters around the needle of etretat , glimmering in the early evening sunlight .
the volume was set low but i could hear the faint reassuring sounds of the pounding surf .
the view 's realism was stunning , giving us the impression of looking through a window .
raymonde had showed little ill effect from her close brush with death .
upon examination , her stomach revealed the shadow killer 's knife had not even scraped her .
the discovery led to disturbing conclusions i felt that knife slide right across my stomach .
i just ca n't understand why i did n't get cut , '' she admitted .
i had something similar occur when i broke the cafeteria door off its hinges .
i should have suffered some injury , at least a minor sprain .
but not a single scratch , just like you .
no , something else is at work .
you know it as well as i do , '' i returned .
the connection between us ? ''
she whispered .
yes .
the connection .
i feel it even now .
you were right before when you said it was growing in strength .
it is .
i heard you scream earlier yet i was nowhere near you .
that 's not all .
lately , my mind is increasingly enhanced in both speed and ability . ''
as with you , something is changing within me but it 's more on an emotional level .
i find myself able to deal with people with extreme ease , as if i can anticipate what their needs are , how they are feeling .
it is a very empathic thing , hard to put into words .
tell me more about your enhanced mind . ''
i am thinking much faster than i used to and with a greater ability to visualize .
anything i have ever seen can be recalled , rotated around in my mind and examined in minute detail .
i can tell you what it weighs , where every irregularity might be .
i can take it apart and reassemble it .
i can tell you which parts do n't fit well .
i can also travel through my memories like a video with stop , fast forward and rewind buttons .
i am sopping up information like a sponge , '' i stopped talking , afraid i had gone too far .
i felt an inner reassurance flood from her , caressing my heart and soothing me .
is this what happens when you deal with people . ''
yes , it is exactly that , '' she replied .
despite the differences , our changes were both profound .
i am sure the caves are behind it . ''
it 's as if we are being prepared , '' raymonde added .
yes , that 's it exactly , my very feeling .
you missed meeting father plantagenet this afternoon . ''
that encounter must have been a bit of a surprise . ''
tell me about it , '' i replied , fingering the ancient key hung around my neck , showing it to raymonde .
when i asked him to simply tell me the information instead of making me chase all over for it , he said 'some knowledge must be earned through experience , mr sirenne .
until you have traveled the path you are on to its conclusion , you will simply not be ready to accept what i have to tell you ' .
i am beginning to think he may be right . ''
what do you mean ? ''
do you remember the dreams i told you about ? ''
yes , the three dreams .
you had them when this whole thing started , almost four months ago . ''
they each had a prophetic element to them .
i saw you in my first dream , as plain as day , yet i did not know you then .
i also saw the bunker on top of the cliff and the fungus light pouring out of it .
the second dream showed me the way into the caves under the cliff .
the third dream showed me a revolving swastika deep inside the cliff . ''
pointing the finger towards hitler . ''
that 's what i thought at first .
that explanation fit so well , so easily .
now , i 'm not so sure . ''
why , what has changed ? ''
my viewpoint has changed .
all along , there have been intimations of predestination to this .
the same message coming at me from multiple quarters , assailing me with its inevitable conclusion .
this is not simply about the machinations of men , of leblanc and the shadow killer , but rather something deeper . ''
raymonde 's eyes probed mine .
are you serious ? ''
it sounds crazy , i know .
i have never given such matters much thought before but it is getting harder to refute .
in the third dream , i was flying a lazy circle around a giant swastika imbedded inside the cliff .
there was so much focus on seeing the swastika from both sides . ''
well , the swastika has deep history .
the nazis appropriated the symbol for their nefarious purposes , trying to attach its strong symbolism to their fledgling party .
in the end , all they succeeded in doing was to darken a symbol meant to express 'being good ' .
it is incredibly ancient , going back more than twelve thousand years . ''
my dream made me look at both sides of the swastika .
could it have been meant to show that the same symbol combined two opposite concepts , both evil and good at the same time ? ''
perhaps .
i suspect the dream will become clearer when the time is right . ''
it would be so easy to ascribe spiritual overtones to the occurrences surrounding me but i have never been one to do that .
i have always believed in the world of facts and science , not god and magic .
most members of the net treat me with a reverence i do not feel is warranted . ''
you are too modest , paul .
you have succeeded where most others would have failed , never giving up .
i am not a follower of science , being more of the heart , and my heart has always told me god is real , that you find him in all things .
you are afraid that your dream might alter your view of the world .
however , spirituality is not something separate from physical reality .
it is intrinsically part of it in fact , i believe it is the very root of all around us .
stop worrying about such things .
let the spirituality issue sort itself out in the fullness of time .
for now , focus on doing what you must to get us to the next step , as you have already done so many times now . ''
her calming words gave me a much needed perspective .
i was impressed by her wisdom .
her presence within me soothed my worries .
i slid over the couch and lay against her , hardly feeling her skin rubbing against mine , our souls intertwining within .
we retired to the bedroom and lost ourselves in each other , attracted like never before .
i was rising above my bed .
the ceiling was inches from my face .
i turned around to look below me and saw myself , lying on the bed , my eyes closed , apparently in a deep sleep .
raymonde was curled up next to me , looking restless .
i rose again , moving through the rock ceiling as if it were not even there .
i could distinguish tiny particles in the chalk , everything precise , suffused with an inner yellow light .
i broke free of the bedrock and floated above the cliff , seeing the ancient bunker to my left , its entrance and windows radiating yellow light .
i rose higher still , rotating at the same time .
i was dreaming again .
i was now hovering high enough in the air to distinguish etretat clearly .
my body was aimed in a southerly direction , moving forward slowly , slicing through the night air easily .
i was n't in control , my ethereal body traveling where the dream dictated .
i looked down at the landscape scrolling by at an ever increasing speed .
i flew over le tilleul , beaurepaire , villainville , and criquetot l'esneval , in quick succession .
after that , i reached such a speed i could no longer identify anything but the largest of landscape features .
i crossed the seine in short order and continued southward .
i sensed the wind 's presence but it had absolutely no effect on me .
i eventually noticed a gradual slowing down .
i dropped lower in the sky , giving me the distinct impression that i was coming in for a landing .
instead , i stopped moving entirely , hovering over a small mountain .
after floating over it for a moment , i sped up again , still in a southern direction .
after a few moments of high acceleration , i slowed down , my body rotating and coming to a stop a few feet above the ground .
my transparent feet were hanging down weightlessly , the grassy hill beneath me sloping down at a good angle .
i was facing a stone building of some sort , with a small tower on its left side .
somehow , i knew there was another tower on the other side of the building , which went down into the ground .
i flew back up into the air , traveling a short while further , until i stopped once more , hovering over a church this time .
again , i knew there was a second church , next to the first one , invisible , inverted , going into the ground .
i flew up into the air and returned to the small mountain .
i was drawn to a rocky outcropping resembling a giant throne .
there was a yellowish glow around the area , strongest by the outcropping itself .
breaking away , i flew back up with ever increasing speed , higher and higher , slowing down only when i reached the stratosphere , at the apogee of my arc .
i fell back , following an ellipsoid curve , this time in the grip of gravitational force .
i felt elongated and solid .
my surface heated up with the intense friction , layers flaking away in frenzied bursts , white hot shavings flying off in showers of iridescent sparks .
my speed kept increasing .
i neared the ground , headed for an impact with the very cliff where my dream had started .
my shape had smoothed out into a gleaming sword of primeval iron , lancing down towards its inevitable kiss with the surface of the earth .
i smashed into the cliff with incredible force , sending thousands of cracks burrowing into the bedrock .
i broke the ceiling of a cave and i slammed through my own body .
i woke with a start , my heart racing madly and breathing like a locomotive .
i lay there for a long while , staring at the ceiling , still not sure if i was awake .
i had become the ancient meteoritic shard of iron buried below these caves .
the dream had been so vivid !
a look at the clock told me it had taken less than ten minutes .
it had felt far longer than that .
once again , i had been given a map , exactly as in the three previous dreams .
i had been shown a physical location , far to the south of here , a small mountain , a tower and a church .
as for the sequence with the shard of iron , i had knowledge of it origin , explained in weissmuller 's manuscript .
his manuscript had contained several such surprises , revealing an intelligent , twisted man , who had assembled many pieces of the puzzle represented by the caves .
these results had not come easily .
he had murdered countless researchers over decades , accumulating the stolen results of their work and hiding the caves of etretat at the same time .
later , he had masterminded the building of this underground fortress .
he had discovered the meteoritic iron shard , buried deep underground , covered in a layer of crumbling iridium , its presence revealed by a magnetic field strong enough to perturb nearby compasses .
i could therefore explain to myself how had come to dream about the meteorite .
what i could not do was explain why i had dreamt it .
i could not explain its utter vividness , or its implication of strong underlying meaning .
perhaps this was another aspect of my mental changes .
i closed my eyes and tried to fall back asleep but found it utterly impossible .
i simply did n't feel tired .
i lay on the bed at two thirty in the morning , infused with energy , eager for the new day .
i sat up , noticing raymonde , angelic in her sleep , her mischievous eyes hidden away .
she seemed to be in a dream of her own .
sliding on some clothes , i reached for my glasses .
walking into the kitchen and nodding at the bodyguards , i buzzed coulter , taking a chance that my night owl friend might still be up .
he connected immediately .
hey paul . ''
had a dream .
ca n't sleep . ''
one of those nights , eh ? ''
yes , one of many lately .
i was wondering if you would be up to some company ? ''
sure thing , paul .
maybe we could do some more work on those books of yours .
i know we did n't find lindon 's copy but we still have the other three .
that 's a good place to start . ''
i 'll be right over . ''
paul sirenne chapter seven examining the books coulter had placed the three books side by side on the examination table .
a powerful digital camera , held on a small , spring loaded boom over the table , allowed him to focus on any area , with whatever level of magnification we might require , the camera 's image projected on the central monitor .
why do n't we start by reviewing again what we know of these books , '' i suggested .
as good a place as any , '' agreed coulter .
i 'll record the data we collect and add it to the stuff we already have , '' he suggested , aligning the camera over the middle book .
like i said before , my father gave me the first one when i was nine .
he sent me a second one , just before he was killed .
the third was found in maurice leblanc 's office .
all three were signed by leblanc .
the signatures look authentic enough but when we examine the printing legend inside , we find the books were printed in 1955 , the same year the lindon family opened their publishing house , edition minuit .
since maurice leblanc died in 1939 , either the printing year is false or leblanc 's signature is .
these books are identical , each presented as number one of four and one .
that , in itself , may be a message .
if it was five , why not say five ? ''
perhaps we are being told that there are four books and one book at the same time , one hidden inside the others .
after all , leblanc 's code says 'read between the lines ' . ''
very sharp , fabian .
you may be right . ''
and where do the books come from ?
who had them originally ?
the clues led us to lindon 's copy but someone took it before us .
if that someone is the shadow killer , i rather doubt we 'll ever get our hands on it , '' coulter returned , a depressed tone in his voice .
listen , the hollow needle copy from my father was meant for our family line .
the book found in the leblanc villa library was handed down to mrs leblanc .
lindon 's missing book was probably intended for his family as well .
three books , three families .
so why would my father have a second copy ?
it breaks the pattern . ''
my comment evoked a mental image of the note i had received with my father 's second book .
rotating the note around , examining it in minute detail , i noticed something odd about the handwriting .
wait a minute , that ca n't be right , '' i exclaimed , horrified by a monstrous possibility .
what is it ? ''
questioned coulter .
where 's that note , the one that came with my father 's second book ? ''
i asked , my mind floundering .
it could n't be , it just could n't .
coulter removed the note from the book .
i looked at the familiar scrawl , trying to see my father writing these words .
the whole thing jarred .
fabian , can you scan this in to your computer ? ''
sure thing .
why ? ''
i do n't think my father wrote this note .
help me prove i 'm wrong , that what i 'm thinking is n't true . ''
he gave the note the full treatment , flashing several different frequencies of light on it and comparing it to handwriting examples from my father .
the note was a forgery .
it closely replicated my father 's scrawl but my enhanced mind had picked up the slight variations .
if my father had not sent it , only one other man could have .
the shadow killer !
in my heart , i now knew my father would have told me about our family secret but was killed before he had the chance .
the shadow killer had orchestrated the entire series of events , planned it with utter precision .
his first move had been to send the hollow needle book with the counterfeit note , so that i received it immediately after my father 's murder .
the shadow killer knew exactly what he was doing . ''
coulter interrupted with a practical concern .
but where did he get his copy ?
there are only four ? ''
i walked over to the table , picking each book up in turn , trying to work it out logically .
we know the provenance of two of these books is incontestable .
only the one from the shadow killer has an unexplained origin .
it is inconceivable that leblanc gave it to him . ''
i agree with you on that .
leblanc wanted us to find it , not anyone else , '' coulter said .
say fabian , you know those little notes , hidden in my father 's copy and in leblanc 's ? ''
he nodded his head .
yes , the ones in the back of the books . ''
what if the shadow killer 's book had a note as well ?
we 've never checked . ''
coulter looked thunderstruck .
i ca n't believe we never thought of that .
it 's such an obvious thing to do .
well , no time like the present , eh , paul ? ''
coulter jumped off his stool , landing directly in front of my father 's second book .
he opened it from the back while adjusting the dangling camera with his other hand .
once again , the fine white threads used to sow the leather lining were not threads but carefully applied white ink .
this was definitely another concealed compartment .
i reached for the book but coulter blocked me .
oh no , let me do it this time .
you got to do it on the other two books .
it 's not fair .
i should get my chance and this is it . ''
i let him go on , laughing to myself .
coulter opened a case attached to his belt , removing a small tool .
titanium tweezers .
best things in the world when you need them . ''
just open the flap . ''
i 'm getting to it . ''
he picked at the leather carefully and it rose with the faintest of resistance .
he angled the camera into the flap , revealing a neatly folded piece of vellum paper .
looking at the giant monitor for guidance , he expertly dipped his tweezers into the flap , sliding the note out smoothly , a wide smile on his face .
like a pro , paul , like a pro , i tell you '' open it up already , '' i smiled back , ignoring his familiar taunts .
he carefully unfolded the note and laid it flat on the table , smoothing out the creases carefully , giving us a perfect view of the message on the huge monitor dear paul sirenne i salute you and congratulate you for having solved the puzzle thus far .
by now , you should have become aware that what brought you here is not the whole story .
at the same time , it is likely that you still do not have enough information to go much further .
do n't worry , more clues will come .
you can expect a meeting soon , with members of the abbey , who will have some items for you .
coming to my villa to get this book was the pre established trigger point to bring our trusted allies back into contact with you .
listen to them and accept their help .
you will need it in the difficult times ahead .
read my book 'the secrets of the kings of france ' .
it should open many doors for you .
be patient , paul .
this process will take the time it needs and you must learn the facts in the right order .
keep solving the puzzles and you will reach your goal , the goal prepared by all of us , throughout many years .
so much rests on your shoulders already .
i am sure you worry about taking on more but do n't falter , do n't weaken , and keep pushing .
the answers are there , waiting for you , the only one who can find them .
do your appointed task .
raymond lindon ps if you are looking for confirmation of what you suspect , rip the last page out of the book .
i turned my head towards coulter who was echoing a surprised look .
this is lindon 's book , '' i asserted .
and if it 's lindon 's book , we know how the shadow killer got hold of it . ''
yeah , he stole it from the villa , '' accused coulter .
it means much more than that .
he had to have deciphered the clues in leblanc 's journal to find the book .
this means he read the journal as well .
he must have found it , then returned it , leaving it for us to find .
we have been retracing his footsteps all this while .
the shadow killer knows absolutely everything we do . ''
probably more .
it explains why we were n't expecting the monks .
we did n't find the note in time .
we were n't ready for them and they were n't ready for us .
it also proves conclusively the killer is n't part of leblanc plans . ''
you 're right .
i wonder if the killer even found the note .
it does n't seem like it .
why would he have left it in there ?
it reveals key information , putting us back on track , not exactly to the shadow killer 's advantage . ''
what about that post scriptum ?
why does lindon want us to rip a page out of the book ? ''
he says it will give us confirmation of what we suspect .
all i suspect at present is that this goes far deeper than i ever anticipated . ''
how could ripping a page out of the book help us prove that ? ''
let 's try it and find out .
lindon has n't led us wrong so far . ''
coulter moved the other two books to the side , bringing lindon 's copy to the center of the table .
adjusting the camera and starting a new recording session , he opened the book , exposing the last page .
grabbing hold of it , he paused , glancing at me with a twinkle in his eye .
you sure you want me to do this ?
these are valuable books after all . ''
money is the least of our concerns and you know it .
i am as baffled as you .
it 's just a page out of a book .
it can conceal no note , no further secret that i can imagine .
yet , we must trust lindon .
just rip that page out and be ready for anything . ''
coulter nodded , tightening his grip on the page with his left hand and holding the binding of the book with his right .
steeling himself , he took a deep breath and pulled on the page .
nothing happened .
surprised , he tried again .
holding the top of the page as near the binding as he could , he pulled down with much more strength , trying to rip the page out with sheer muscle power .
he stood there , immobile except for a slight trembling of his arms and back , betraying the immense effort he was putting into it .
the page appeared completely unaffected by his straining .
i ca n't do it .
it just wo n't rip , '' he said , expelling a deep breath and wiping the sweat on his brow .
what 's the matter with it ?
is it not paper ? ''
coulter looked at it closely , feeling it .
it sure seems to be plain paper .
odd thing though , light does n't shine through it .
look . ''
he lifted the book in the air , holding it underneath one of the ceiling lights .
although the pages appeared to be thin , white paper , they remained totally opaque to light .
why do n't you try ripping it ?
we know you 're much stronger than me , '' coulter suggested .
he had a point .
if i could shear hinge pins without thinking about it , i should be able to rip paper in my sleep .
i handled the book gingerly , examining the material .
it looked like ordinary leather on the outside and regular quality paper inside .
it was well bound but not remarkably so .
i opened it to the back page and repeated the same steps coulter had .
it did not rip .
in frustration , coulter ran to his shelves , returning with a randomly selected hardcover book and handing it to me .
just satisfy me this one whim .
try to rip that entire book in half . ''
without a word , curious myself , i held the book between my two hands and lightly wrenched .
the book ripped down the middle instantly , leaving me holding two halves , a stunned look on my face .
i had not put any effort into it .
i was glad i was going for that medical exam in the morning .
i knew it , '' coulter stated .
i knew you were stronger than before and i knew it was n't us .
it 's that book , '' he finished , pointing at it .
let me try another page , '' i suggested .
maybe this one page is treated , somehow different that the rest . ''
lifting the book up one more time , i selected a page at random and tried to remove it forcibly from the book .
again , i failed .
maybe we can cut it , '' coulter suggested , his hand lifting up a pair of scissors .
i watched as he tried to cut the page without making the slightest indentation .
i tried as well but when i applied the slightest force , the scissors bent out of shape and broke instead of cutting the paper .
i felt like a clumsy superman .
coulter came up with another idea , running away to rummage through a tool box hidden under a desk , jumping back up with a small propane torch , held high in the air with his left hand .
ahah !
i knew i still had it here .
let 's see that book deal with something a bit more energetic . ''
i held the page out for him , while he lit the torch .
he brought the flame to bear on the edge of the page .
seeing that fail , he stubbornly persisted , aiming the streaming jet of blue flame directly on the center of the page .
the flame flattened out against the paper , doing no damage whatsoever .
i slid my hand under the page .
the heat of that flame is not crossing over to the other side of the page . ''
what ?
that 's physically impossible . ''
that seems par for the course at this point . ''
uhm , yes , i guess so , '' coulter replied , turning the torch off .
let 's think about this for a bit . ''
coulter nodded , returning the torch to the toolbox , sliding it back under the desk with his foot .
man , this is getting weird , '' he exclaimed .
i had to agree with him .
an hour later , coulter and i were back on our stools , his coffee refilled , the books displayed in front of us .
we had determined that all three were equally invulnerable to harm .
coulter summed up our findings we have to admit it , something is very strange with these books .
i had scanned them from beginning to end but , upon examination , the results are ambiguous .
there is an unexplainable fuzziness to all scans .
the scans intended to go deeper within the structure of the materials have failed .
the books are opaque to ultrasound , x rays , radio waves , microwaves , infra red , and ultraviolet .
nothing penetrates their outer surface .
the effect , whatever it is , is consistent .
the only anomaly i have come up with is found under extreme magnification using regular light , the only wavelength that refracts properly . ''
he opened the middle book , adjusted the camera over it , pressed a few buttons and an image of a random page from one of the books appeared on the monitor .
he zoomed in , the specialized lenses telescoping outward , until the area became a grainy surface .
coulter adjusted the image into sharp focus .
we are looking at an area no wider that one thousandth of a millimeter .
this should give you a sense of the extremely minuteness of what we are seeing here , '' he explained .
the magnified landscape was covered with a layer of transparent six sided cells , looking like rough hexagons .
there was a slight bulge in the center of each cell and a type of scilla around the edges , glued to the next cell .
what are they ? ''
i asked coulter .
i 'm not sure .
i 've tried scraping some off for closer analysis but , since the books are invulnerable , i ca n't get a single cell off the surface . ''
you think the cells are conferring invulnerability to the books ? ''
i suspect it .
possibly , these books were , uhm , dipped into a solution of these cells and they have fused together , bound by those scilla , creating an invulnerable layer .
however , i am at a loss to explain what those cells are composed of .
at the human scale , they are entirely transparent .
apart from a very slight magnetism , i can get no readings .
i am stumped , '' he admitted .
at least it does one thing . ''
what 's that ? ''
it provides us with confirmation of what we suspect , '' i answered , a smile on my face .
coulter smiled back .
that it does . ''
paul sirenne chapter eight doctor phillippe the automated golf cart dropped us off at the medical caves , heading on to some further errand .
upon my return from coulter 's caves , i was unable to sleep , still full of energy .
in fact , there was so much of it , i found it hard to contain .
raymonde was also awake and just as restless .
her sleep had been haunted by fleeting dreams , leaving her with a strong feeling of coming change .
i related my own dream to her and about the invulnerable books .
i spent the rest of my available time doing further research , following lindon 's advice from his note , until it was time for my medical check up .
everything we had found so far was swirling around in a mental maelstrom , the pieces connecting to each other one second and falling apart in the next .
raymonde wondered if she should be examined as well but i suggested it might be a wise precaution to leave the focus on me for the moment .
when i walked into the clinic , several nurses jumped to attention .
a small , rotund man approached , munching on a pastry .
mr sirenne .
i 'm so glad to meet you , sir .
my name is dr phillippe and these are my assistants .
i will be conducting your medical examination .
all our equipment is ready , sir . ''
his head slightly downcast , he swept his hand towards an open door in an affable gesture .
if you would come this way . ''
the deference left me unsettled .
the same thing was happening all over the caves .
all members of the net had made an oath of loyalty until their death .
i was the one in charge of their group .
i knew that .
still , the deference bothered me .
we each did our bit to make everything work .
i needed them as much as they needed me .
i 'm not the usual doctor .
he called in sick , imagine that , so i 'm still finding my way around .
i 'm not even a doctor of medicine .
well , i was , but i do n't practice anymore , i moved into the field of physics .
ca n't explain why , that 's just what i did .
they called me here , to give you a once over .
i hope you do n't mind .
i 'm sure i remember all the basics .
would you like a pastry ?
they are delicious . ''
no thank you , doctor .
i 'm not particularly hungry . ''
dr phillippe had me provide a urine sample and strip down to my underwear .
i came out of the small bathroom and sat down on the hospital bed , handing my sample to a nurse .
dr phillippe selected a hypodermic needle and a rubber tube from a drawer .
i thought we could get some blood right away and proceed with a basic check up while my assistants process it . ''
sounds fine , '' i answered , raising my arm to allow him to place the tube around it .
he tied a knot in the tube and tightened it .
no matter how tight he made it , i could n't feel it at all .
hmm .
i do n't seem to be raising a vein , '' the doctor admitted , returning to the rubber tube , tightening it some more and tapping my skin .
although i saw everything he did , i felt none of it .
nope .
no vein popping up .
curious .
well , i know where it should be .
how about i take a chance ? ''
he asked .
go ahead . ''
he attempted to insert the needle .
it pushed against my arm but , instead of piercing my skin , the needle bent .
dr phillippe apologized and , pulling the needle back , re positioned it .
he put so much effort trying to push the needle in that it snapped .
i still felt none of it .
the doctor looked baffled .
i 'm really sorry .
i do n't know what happened .
i ca n't seem to get the needle to go in . ''
this sounded familiar , like trying to rip the page out of a book .
the nurse came in , holding my urine sample .
she approached the doctor , whispering in his ear , after a slight curtsy in my direction .
she handed him the bottle and left after another curtsy .
the doctor held the bottle in his hand , looking at it curiously for a moment , then , opening the top , brought it to his nose , giving it a good sniff .
his eyebrows lifted up in amazement .
he sniffed the contents of the bottle one further time .
tell me , mr sirenne , what did you have for breakfast this morning ? ''
i skipped breakfast .
i was n't hungry .
i did force myself to drink a bit of juice .
what is this about , doctor ?
what is wrong with my urine sample ? ''
i asked , worried .
well , your urine appears to be apple juice .
cold apple juice , in fact .
without actually analyzing it , it seems to be rather pure .
no traces of gastric juices anyway , no other inclusions .
you did n't play a trick on us , did you ? ''
he looked hopeful .
no , i 'm afraid not .
i used , uhm , the usual method to provide you with that sample .
did you say cold apple juice ?
that seems impossible .
would n't it have to be warm ? ''
the doctor nodded his head strongly in agreement .
yes that is exactly my thinking .
impossible .
it must be a trick . ''
i 'm afraid not , doctor .
i ca n't explain it either but i suspect we will find further anomalies .
let 's keep working on the check up . ''
my words jarred him back to a more professional approach and he pulled a standard glass thermometer from a protective sleeve , placing it in my open mouth .
lifting the stethoscope from around his neck , he placed the nubs on his ears and the resonator to my chest .
after a moment , he lifted it away , blew on its surface , and replaced it in a slightly different spot .
he moved it again , then one more time .
giving up , he stood back from me slightly , placing the stethoscope on his own chest , a strong frown on his forehead .
he removed the thermometer from my mouth .
looking at the result , he began trembling slightly .
mr sirenne , i 'm terribly sorry .
i can not get any results from my instruments .
if i were to believe them , you would have no heartbeat and your body seems to be at ambient temperature .
i have verified the proper functioning of the stethoscope upon myself .
i am sure the thermometer is in equally good working order .
i must conclude it is you . ''
it certainly seems like excellent logic to me , doctor .
let 's not stop and worry too much about how anomalous the results are .
let 's catalog them and perhaps we can find patterns , something to give us a clue about what is causing this .
i can assure you that my heart is beating .
i can feel its pulsations internally .
i can also say that i do not feel cold .
i feel as if the temperature is exactly right , even if i am standing here in my underwear .
my only sensation is numbness . ''
dr philippe wrote this down , pulling out a small hammer with a triangular rubber head .
let 's continue then , with a brief test of your reflexes . ''
he tapped my knee but it did not respond , as if the doctor had missed the nerve .
do you mind if i try again ?
a little harder perhaps ? ''
go ahead .
i 'm not feeling anything . ''
he tapped my knee again , then seeing it fail , hit it a third and final time , with considerably more effort .
i felt the impact but the sensation was strangely muted , like being hit through reams of soft cotton .
the doctor tested reflexes in my feet , with the same negative results .
he attempted to use ultrasound and then x rays .
in each case , the results were opaqueness .
i directed the doctor to use the visible wavelength of light at extreme magnification on my skin .
you were right , mr sirenne .
there is something transparent covering your skin .
it is very fine , much finer than your individual cells .
there seems to be many layers . ''
i looked at the monitor display .
unlike the books , with a single layer of those bizarre cells , my skin was covered with multiple layers of the stuff .
he checked my mouth , worried that the cells might have invaded the internal parts of my body .
i held still , while he magnified an area on my tongue , confirming the cells were present .
the doctor tried to get a sample of my saliva , using a cotton swab .
even this attempt was frustrated .
when he lifted the swab from the pool of saliva in my mouth , it emerged completely dry .
attempting to spit into a container , i was unable to collect a sufficient amount of saliva .
the doctor was at his wit 's end and i was not far behind .
the cells had invaded my system and were the likely cause of my recent changes .
the doctor checked his own skin in comparison , finding no trace of the cells .
he did have one thought about them .
i regularly talk to several colleagues over the internet .
one of them is a botanical specialist .
he devotes much of his time to the study of pollens , spores and seeds , as a technique to date ancient objects .
upon occasion , he has sent me image collections of these .
the cells i see covering your skin remind me of some of those images .
if one was to imagine them as single cells , rather than all flattened out and glued to each other , one might visualize them as amorphous balls with little spines sticking out all around , just like some types of spores . ''
i ordered the doctor to do further study , asking him to put together a brief report of his findings as soon as he could .
it was time to go to the meeting .
the others were waiting .
paul sirenne chapter nine the great secret revealed i arrived at the conference cave , finding everyone there already , serving themselves coffee and scones .
raymonde handed me a cup , whispering as she did so how did the check up go ? ''
i would tell you if we had been able to obtain a single sample or reading , apart from my weight . ''
that sounds pretty bad . ''
well , it could be worse .
i may have given us a trail to follow . ''
good .
we 're going to need it . ''
she patted my shoulder before walking back to the table .
i hardly felt the physical contact of her arm but there was an accompanying internal sensation , an echo of the physical touch , making the contact feel almost normal .
walking to the head of the long table , i sat down .
good morning everyone .
our problem is that we do not have the whole story in our hands .
major elements have been evading our grasp .
from the very beginning , the great hunt has been filled with unseen agendas .
if we were to accept the version we were originally given , leblanc found the caves , hitler sneaked in , tried to kill leblanc , stole some gold from the caves and left , sealing up what he thought to be leblanc 's body .
leblanc survived and blew up the fort of frefosse , preventing hitler from returning to the caves .
after that , we are to accept that both men spent the rest of their lives focused on those caves .
why ?
certainly there was gold in the caves but , frankly , after many years , hitler had no further need for gold .
as fuhrer , he had all the wealth and power he could desire .
why would he still seek control of the caves ?
he had other underground fortresses to run to .
it makes no sense , unless there was some other reason , something that , until now , has escaped our notice . ''
i 've examined weissmuller 's manuscript carefully .
in it , weissmuller mentions hitler saying he had killed leblanc .
yet leblanc came out of those caves , as alive as you and me .
prior to today , i had discounted that part as coming from a lunatic , as had weissmuller originally .
however , after working in the caves for three years , weissmuller changed his opinion .
in the manuscript 's last section , he admitted there was something about the caves which made him think hitler was right about them after all , '' o'flanahan commented .
what are you implying , o'flanahan ?
that leblanc spontaneously resuscitated after being killed by hitler ?
that sounds utterly ludicrous . ''
look , briar , i 'm just saying it 's something we ought to look at .
i 'm not making this up . ''
o'flanahan 's right ! ''
i added .
more than he knows , i suspect .
these three books have been treated , covered in a layer of bizarre spore like cells , making them impervious to harm .
i , too , have been covered by these cells .
they are now deep within my body .
my increased strength , speed , and accelerated mental state are probably caused by them .
the common point between those books and my body has to be the caves themselves .
this is why i believe o'flanahan may be right . ''
very well , i will play along .
let us suppose this theory is valid .
what then ? ''
asked briar .
lindon left us a note .
it was hidden in my father 's second book , which we now know was stolen from lindon 's house by the shadow killer , '' i said , dropping the bombshell without warning .
what do you mean ? ''
asked a red faced briar .
you 're not telling me you found another note hidden in those books , are you ? ''
o'flanahan jumped in with a quick retort i guess the shadow killer must have missed it .
he did all that set up and missed the most obvious part .
if i was him , i sure would be pissed off . ''
briar 's lips were tight and pursed , listening to o'flanahan 's tirade , and he made a visible effort to relax before replying , a slight smile on his face .
yes , for once i think you are right , o'flanahan .
it surely would upset him , if he were human .
however , i suspect a monster such as he would take it in stride . ''
maybe you 're right , briar .
anyway , what was in lindon 's note , paul ? ''
o'flanahan asked , returning to the main fray .
apart from leading us to discover the books were indestructible , the note informed us that the abbey monks were indeed our allies .
more importantly , lindon told us to read one of his books , titled 'la veritable identite d'arsene lupin ou le secret des rois de france ' .
i read the book this morning , prior to my medical checkup and what it told me was extremely revealing .
it is a short , convincing treatise on the mystery of the hollow needle .
it seems lindon was not satisfied by leblanc 's interpretation of the note left by marie antoinette before her beheading , the very note lupin decoded hundreds of years later to find the location of the supposed hollow needle .
his treatise re examines that note and re interprets the code .
leblanc 's version might have been incorrect . ''
could leblanc have done it on purpose ? ''
wondered coulter .
absolutely .
leblanc wrote the hollow needle before his discovery of the caves and i am positive he was careful to muddle the trail .
what is certain is that neither leblanc 's interpretation , nor his journal , ever even hinted of this alternate possibility .
were it not for the note , this whole direction of investigation could well have been missed . ''
what did the treatise say then , paul ? ''
asked raymonde .
if one reads it in the proper way , it states the secret is an underground river with special properties , which the kings of france knew about for centuries . ''
a river ?
what river ? ''
wondered coulter .
it 's an underground river , which flows beneath the aval cliff and the town of etretat .
it can be seen pouring into the channel at extremely low tide , below the amont cliff .
weissmuller himself mentioned it and its effects on health .
it courses through the caves , deep underground .
an entire section of caves is flooded by its waters . ''
what 's so special about the river ? ''
added coulter .
the explanation for that comes from the final part of lindon 's book .
let me fill you in on a bit of the story .
in 1876 , there was a big drought around etretat .
the nearby river dried out , restricting access to the main water supply .
a local candy maker , mr hamel , normally used regular water in the making of his confections .
during the drought , he looked for alternate sources .
the underground river was still flowing , piped to a small fountain called la fontaine d'amont .
hamel used the water in the making of a particular confection , following an ancient family recipe , which were commonly called 'les carres hamel ' .
prior to using the new water , the candies , which were small soft squares , had enjoyed a modest popularity .
once the new water had been added , hamel could not keep them in supply .
over time , many customer made claims of increased health and attributed these changes to the 'carres hamel ' , which name had been contracted to car hamel or caramel .
somehow , the addition of the underground river water to the caramels improved the health of those who ate them .
to this day , that fountain still carries myths of improved health and longevity .
in fact , if one studies the few reports available , you will discover that local inhabitants benefit from a higher than average life span .
it is not uncommon for most etretatais to have at least one family member over the age of one hundred . ''
by now , o'flanahan eyes were bulging out of his head .
sirenne , you 're not saying what i think you 're saying are you ? ''
i laughed at the look on his face .
yes , i believe so , o'flanahan . ''
mother of pearl .
you ca n't be serious , '' o'flanahan stood up and paced around the room , talking a mile a minute .
do you know what this might mean ?
good gosh .
and to think i was impressed when we found hitler 's body in the caves .
wait until i print this , i said .
now , i see myself as a mere child .
it 's time to handle the grown up conspiracies , the ones that might actually mean something . ''
frankly , o'flanahan , do n't you think you are over reacting a tad ? ''
snapped briar .
not really .
not one bit in fact .
i do n't know what you think paul was trying to say with his origin of caramels story but it came through clear as day to me . ''
coulter looked at o'flanahan in confusion , still not getting it .
o'flanahan spelled it out we 're sitting on the fountain of youth , me boy , the fountain of youth . ''
o'flanahan fell back in his chair , completely overwrought .
he sat there , mulling his thoughts for a moment before speaking again , this time in a low chilling tone .
and if we are to believe leblanc did in fact return from the dead , as hitler claimed all along , then not only have we found the fountain of youth , we may well have found the secret of immortality , particularly when we add the invulnerable books and sirenne 's changes to the mix .
my friends , all this concerns me greatly .
every single man who has ever lived has been seeking this from the moment they figured out they were going to die .
we may be sitting on the most valuable secret on the face of the earth . ''
a brief silence fell over the table .
our reflection did not last long , interrupted by a wireless call .
it was doctor phillippe .
mr sirenne , sir , i have found the link .
i have found it . ''
the man was brimming with excitement .
calm down , doctor .
tell us what you have found , '' i directed him .
after you left , sir , i kept comparing those cells to images of spores .
eventually , i found a match .
it was an ancient spore , more than five hundred thousand years old .
i contacted dr solanski , the man who had sent me the images , and asked him about it .
he informed me it belonged to an extinct species of cave lichen .
naturally , i thought of the light giving fungus on our walls .
i wondered what its spores might look like .
i set about trying to collect some .
i was surprised at how long it took me to obtain a single sample .
it seems the air currents are sufficiently strong to carry them away rapidly . ''
i 've noticed that , '' mentioned raymonde .
the dust is always pulled away in the main corridors , never gathering . ''
the doctor nodded in agreement .
yes , miss raymonde , exactly .
well , it took some time but i managed to isolate a single spore .
here is a magnified picture of it .
allow me to place this comparative image from mr sirenne 's skin . ''
the cells covering my body were distorted spores .
i was also baffled that your skin was covered in spores while mine was not .
i have checked many others and none have shown any evidence of spores .
i will keep collecting the spores , if you wish , sir and continue doing research on them . ''
that sounds perfect , doctor phillippe , thank you .
you have provided us with a key element , i am sure of it .
go on with your research .
and doctor ? ''
yes , mr sirenne ? ''
work fast .
use all available resources .
time is of the essence . ''
the doctor gulped and nodded .
yes , sir , i will .
as fast as possible . ''
well , that certainly was a timely bit of news , '' o'flanahan commented when the doctor disconnected .
i agree , '' i retorted .
if we are going to accept that these caves conceal the secret of immortality , then i want some scientific proof . ''
ever the doubting thomas , paul ? ''
added briar .
yes jonathan , thomas should have been my middle name .
however , the good doctor has solved my nascent dilemma .
he has provided us with a physical link .
spores from that bizarre light giving fungus which covers the cave walls . ''
how could spores make someone immortal ? ''
asked raymonde , a tone of concern in her voice .
i could n't forget she was just as affected as i was .
we do n't know that yet .
we just know there is a link .
those spores have covered the book and me .
both have exhibited material changes as a result .
that is what we know .
for the moment , we should let doctor phillippe pursue his research and , hopefully , he will be able to provide us with further information . ''
everything seems to revolve around leblanc 's encounter with hitler in the caves , '' raymonde mentioned .
yes , miss raymonde , you are quite correct , '' briar joined in .
i am led to think of jesus christ after he was removed from the cross and buried in his tomb .
the same key question must be asked . ''
good one , briar , '' agreed o'flanahan .
that 's the key question all right did he come back from the dead ?
was leblanc killed or not ? ''
why do n't we go look ? ''
i suggested .
the cave is just down the hall . ''
getting up from the conference table , we exited the throne cave , heading to the right .
when we first found the cave where leblanc was hit , i was surprised at the amount of blood on the floor , '' i said .
me too .
i remember a big stain , mostly hidden by the dust , '' added coulter .
we never touched that cave , out of respect to leblanc .
i should have wondered before now that this cave in particular was n't touched by weissmuller and his men either , '' i said .
perhaps he held a similar respect , '' suggested briar .
no , i do n't think so .
weissmuller was a monster , as you said yourself .
he would never have cared a whit for leblanc 's feelings , particularly not a dead leblanc , '' riposted o'flanahan .
here we are , '' i said , cutting off another argument between my two friends .
they were such different men , almost total opposites .
they held little love for each other , although there might be grudging respect between the two .
we squeezed carefully through the narrow opening , o'flanahan 's larger belly getting stuck for a brief moment , much to his chagrin , and to coulter 's delight .
finally , all comments over with , our bodyguards in place by the entrance , we stood around the ancient stain on the floor .
this is where it all started .
i wonder if leblanc had any idea of the nest he was stirring when he walked in here , '' asked o'flanahan .
do any of us ever know where our footsteps will lead us in time ?
i would think not .
all men muddle through their lives like sheep , looking in front of their noses , just far enough to know where to place their next step .
men have no vision of the true consequences of their actions .
in my field of study , i have seen enough skeletons to prove that conclusively , '' philosophized briar .
his viewpoint , while sounding cynical , might be right .
coulter knelt down , carefully brushing the dust away to reveal the bloodstain .
while he did this , i noticed a curious phenomenon .
the stirred up dust , floating into the air , settled into a slow , curious pattern of movement .
some of the dust particles were swirling around me .
more were doing the same around raymonde .
the others had n't noted the slight orbital pattern , except perhaps for raymonde herself .
neither of us said anything , locked in a frozen moment , looking at the swirling dust orbiting around us , the individual motes like diamond specks in the bright fungus light .
i felt as if i was the center of a galaxy , stars majestically rotating in four big spiraling arms , trailing slowly through the eons .
the details i could pick up were disconcerting .
i could easily discern individual specks and watch them as they spiraled ever closer to raymonde .
i saw one land and vanish in a puff of light .
then another and another .
spores .
the dust was filled with spores .
somehow , they were specifically attracted to raymonde and i. coulter 's sweeping had set them in motion and the liberated spores were able to move freely in the faint air currents , my perception of them surely enhanced by my recent changes .
i doubted the others could see such fine movements , although it seemed like a veritable maelstrom to me .
the moment ended and my perceptions returned to normal , time kicking back into gear .
i locked onto raymonde 's eyes wordlessly .
she too had perceived the same incredible pattern .
does it seem brighter in here to you guys ? ''
wondered coulter , squinting despite his glasses .
this is an enclosed space .
less free oxygen .
it should n't be this bright . ''
i said nothing , not sure how to explain what raymonde and i had just witnessed .
coulter 's attention thankfully returned to measuring the bloodstain .
this is an awfully big stain .
and look how dark it is .
it had to be pretty thick to start with , in order to be this dark a century later . ''
coulter pulled a small calculator from his belt holder .
he jabbed numbers at a rapid pace on the poor instrument .
after a prolonged attack , the calculator surrendered the answer .
there is no way leblanc could have survived losing this much blood .
even allowing for a large percentage of error in my calculations , the numbers are unarguable .
leblanc bled out on this floor .
he had to have died , right here , almost a hundred years ago . ''
yet history tells us otherwise .
his own journal tells us he got up from this very spot and walked away , living for another thirty years , '' affirmed o'flanahan .
if this is n't proof that something is going on , i do n't know what is . ''
okay , but that still does n't explain how he came back from the dead , '' argued briar .
i think i can answer that .
he fell to the dust covered floor of this small recessed cave when he was hit .
that dust was hundreds of matted layers , centuries old , centuries thick , saturated with fungus spores .
if we are to accept the spores are the link , which i do , then this was their chance to do their thing , even if we can not explain what that thing is . ''
paul 's right .
this has to be the connection , '' o'flanahan stated unequivocally , as coulter stood up , patting his knees and sending more dust flying .
i avoided focusing on it , hoping to prevent another perceptual episode .
so hitler was speaking the truth all along then ? ''
raymonde asked while we filed out of the small cave .
it was right in front of us .
we just did n't see it because it was so unbelievable , '' i answered .
we made the wrong assumption from the very beginning .
with leblanc 's impossible return to life , hitler learned the caves held far more than he ever expected .
the secret of immortality !
this is why hitler changed , what crystallized him .
this is the key event that changed the entire world . ''
good gosh .
it makes hitler 's actions so much clearer .
think about his thousand year reich .
if you need more proof , remember the prayer he wrote for schoolchildren , naming himself as their immortal god .
those things were never intended to be myths .
hitler truly thought he would live forever , '' o'flanahan exclaimed .
no wonder he never gave up trying to come back here , '' coulter threw in , shaking his head .
the crafty leblanc blocked him at every turn , anticipating all his moves , and killing him in the end , preventing the world from having to deal with an immortal hitler , '' o'flanahan added .
raymonde shuddered .
how did my great grandfather succeed ?
how did he stop hitler from coming back too , if the trap was in the spore filled caves ? ''
that is an excellent question , one to which i believe i have the answer , '' briar answered .
when we found that trap , with the hidden poison gas tanks , our only thought was to ensure the poison was long gone , which thankfully it was .
leblanc had to achieve many things with his poison gas .
he knew he would never return to the caves once he left them .
his trap had to work .
it could not be a matter of mere chance .
it is one of the first things i investigated when we originally moved in to the caves .
i tested the surfaces of several escape jets , which i found hidden behind the tapestries .
the results came back showing the presence of iron oxides , as well as high levels of carbon dioxide . ''
and what the heck does that mean , briar ? ''
asked o'flanahan .
iron oxides are powerful oxygen absorbers , particularly in a humid environment , such as this cave air .
i believe leblanc 's trap contained a combination of oxygen absorbers and pressurized carbon dioxide .
its release would have fatally lowered oxygen levels while the increase in carbon dioxide levels would have ensured rapid human death .
it only takes a concentration of ten or twenty percent carbon dioxide in the atmosphere to prove lethal to humans .
the idea of adding pulverized iron particles was truly brilliant .
it combined rapidly with the humidity in the air , activating instantly and turning to rust .
hitler and the others never stood a chance .
by coincidence , the air system built by weissmuller added a higher efficiency to the process , spreading the gas iron dust mix throughout the entire complex within minutes of its release . ''
i shook my head at the planning required .
it 's incredible . ''
as well , '' finished briar with a smile , since carbon dioxide is heavier than air , the highest concentrations would end up in the lagoon chamber .
even with breathing tanks , the saturated air would poison you through the skin .
he turned these caves into a deadly tomb for more than sixty years with his trap , an amazing achievement . ''
briar was right .
leblanc 's trap had done exactly what it had to do .
we entered the conference cave .
coulter hurried to the coffee bar and prepared himself a fresh cup .
when he turned around , to return to the table , he smashed into an immobile o'flanahan , spilling his cup .
watch out , o'flanahan , '' coulter exclaimed , awkwardly swerving around him .
sorry , coulter , it 's just that i had a pretty scary thought . ''
when o'flanahan was in full conspiracy swing , his thoughts had a tendency to extremes .
come sit down and tell us , liam , '' asked raymonde .
o'flanahan drank some hot coffee and pulled out a chair , sitting down on its edge .
it 's just one of those stupid thought chains you know how they go , right ?
you start with one , then another latches on , then another .
the first thing you know , you have gotten pretty far from where you started , you know what i mean ? ''
i nodded .
o'flanahan stood up again and started pacing .
well , i found myself wondering what about weissmuller ?
i mean , what was he doing in all this ?
all along , we have looked at hitler but this weissmuller guy was there as well .
he is the one who did all the killing while hitler did all the politicking .
he is the one who came here , to etretat , and built this entire fortress , for pete 's sake .
he researched the meteorite buried in the middle of the caves .
he knew all about it .
he also knew about the fungus , because he installed the air system to feed it oxygen in order to use it as a light source for the caves .
the crowning piece for me is his manuscript .
there it was , waiting for us to find it , with all sorts of answers . ''
he stopped pacing for a moment , taking a bite from a scone and another sip from his cup .
crumbs fell off his chin onto his dirty sweater .
you all know me , with my conspiracies .
i see them everywhere .
when i saw that manuscript , i thought to myself , how convenient , here 's weissmuller shot in the head and here 's his manuscript telling us all about it .
well , i just did n't buy it , not for a minute .
it was all too pat .
but what could i do about it ?
those events happened in 1945 .
even if weissmuller had n't died , he 'd surely be dead by now , sixty years later .
that was when i asked myself what if ? ''
he paused dramatically , looking at each of us in turn .
what if he knew about the spores ?
what then ?
well , after that , the thoughts just would n't stop latching together , it was happening all on its own .
hitler told weissmuller his beliefs about the caves it was right in the manuscript .
after working in the caves for three years , weissmuller believed the caves were more important than they seemed at first .
he mentioned the underground river .
he could measure leblanc 's bloodstain just as easily as we could .
he would have known hitler was n't speaking nonsense when he talked about immortality .
he even considered himself hitler 's superior near the end , no longer trusting his partner in crime .
he claimed in his manuscript he was ready for hitler 's treachery if it came .
i thought he had failed , that hitler had caught him by surprise , shot him in the back like the coward he was .
but now , i 'm not so sure . ''
o'flanahan , you must return to earth .
no matter what you suppose , weissmuller is well and truly dead .
we found his mummified body together .
you are the one who pulled the manuscript from his cold , dead corpse .
how can you argue with that ? ''
briar countered , bringing reality back to the fore .
o'flanahan was unfazed .
how ?
easily , that 's how .
weissmuller was no fool .
he was a cold serial killer .
he worked in the caves for three long years , plenty of time to ferret out its secrets .
sirenne has only been here for a few months and he 's damn near indestructible already .
we know this stuff is n't science fiction .
those books , and paul here , are the proof .
there is no way weissmuller did not know about the spores .
and knowing about the spores is just a step away from using them .
so , in answer to you , briar , even if there is a body down there , weissmuller did not die .
he knew how treacherous hitler was .
i am sure he took countermeasures .
we already know the guy loved hiding in the shadows .
if hitler had a double , why could n't weissmuller have one ?
why does that body down there have to be weissmuller 's ?
it does n't and you know it .
you all know it . ''
briar could say nothing to o'flanahan 's irrefutable words .
weissmuller 's journal had proven him to be a brilliant man , subject to fits of excessive planning .
it had allowed him to remain invisible after more than thirty years of brutal killing .
he would have protected himself .
o'flanahan continued i do n't even need to go check those remains , although i will , just to get briar off my back .
i am convinced i will find evidence of surgical alterations , hair coloration , something that will prove me right .
unfortunately , that 's not the end of it .
that was just the next thought in my chain .
the following one was even worse , paul .
a real killer ! ''
he was looking directly at me .
i returned his stare , looking deep into his bright eyes .
if he did n't die , then he was the only one to survive , the last one who knew about the secret of the caves .
he had riches beyond compare , no one knew he was alive and he very possibly held immortality in his hands .
that was when i asked myself what has he been doing all this time ?
that was sixty long years ago .
where is he know ?
could he be here , still alive after all these years ?
could he be the shadow killer ?
that 's the thought that froze me , paul , the thought i ca n't get out of my head right now , no matter what i try .
crazy as it sounds , i think weissmuller is right here , right now , walking among us , with his crazy disguises , still pulling our strings , after more than a hundred years of existence .
and that thought scares the heck out of me . ''
weissmuller recollections , 1943 1954 my great discovery came through simple curiosity concerning the river flowing through the caves .
its health effects on anyone who drank it were undisputable , although consistent intake was necessary .
examination of the water revealed nothing unusual normal water contaminants , fresh water plankton and various plant spores .
i continued using the water in the caves for two reasons a healthy workforce would be more productive and i would have a ready source of guinea pigs to observe .
by 1942 , i was able to draw a few conclusions .
they were difficult to accept .
i did a further study to replicate my results , adding two control groups to the first group of one hundred men .
the results confirmed my original conclusions statistical study results period of analysis two years group a special water from underground river one hundred males , median age thirty five .
incidence of disease while living in cave 0 incidence of disease while outside of caves 0 group b control group plain water , living inside and outside caves fifty males , median age thirty seven .
incidence of disease while living in caves 0 incidence of disease while living outside of caves 12 group c second control group , plain water , living outside .
twenty five males , median age thirty five .
incidence of disease while living outside of caves 74 something common to the river water and the caves was increasing my men 's resistance to disease .
the hospital staff on level three related other facts , not apparent in my statistical examination .
the men demonstrated an amazing resistance to injury as well as disease .
accidents which should have resulted in broken bones often did not .
pain was generally non existent .
in a few cases , skin had even become resistive to acids .
what was doing this and how strong were its effects ?
what if we made a concentrated elixir of it ?
would it banish disease ?
i experimented on selected hardy specimens , to determine the level of protectiveness provided by the river and air of our caves .
early in the fortress ' construction , i had reserved a group of forty chambers as my private area , away from the others , deep underground , where i felt safest .
i had transformed them into the ultimate testing rooms , where i could carry out several experiments at once , for days , if i desired .
i placed my first specimen in the main chamber , tied to a table of my own design .
he had been drinking the river water exclusively for more than a year .
he had suffered three accidents in that period , the third quite serious , or at least it would have been , if he had n't come out inexplicably unharmed .
i had to discover how far the water 'effect ' would protect him from a focused attempt to cause bodily harm .
i gagged the soldier to reduce his pointless objections .
my first attempt was straightforward , stabbing him in the leg with a long , sharp knife .
the tip slipped on his skin , sliding to the examination table beneath him .
trying again , using both hands to steady the knife , i stabbed into his leg .
once more , my knife slid along the skin .
selecting a larger area , i thrust the knife into his stomach repeatedly .
the knife jabbed deeply , failing to pierce the skin , no matter the force applied .
the man was bouncing with every one of my blows although he did not seem to be in serious pain .
he was struggling against his bonds but they would hold him until he died .
deciding to be less subtle about my attempts , i picked up a heavy hammer and hit him squarely on the chest , a truly resounding blow .
his body was squashed under the hammer 's impact , his air expelled and his chest cage flattened .
at the last possible moment , the hammer was pushed back , the chest cage throwing off the impact energy , leaving the specimen relatively unharmed .
the man 's eyes were wild .
he was breathing in and out like a steam piston .
performing a brief examination confirmed two ribs had cracked , although the cracks were relatively minor .
his skin was heavily bruised around the point of impact but it was already healing .
my blow should have crushed his chest cage and his heart .
it was unquestionable that some protective agent was present .
i returned to my specimen with a vengeance .
after many , many tests , i knew his protection was all encompassing .
he was resistive to burning , drowning , poisoning , starvation , and infection .
in short , everything i could think of throwing at him .
he was nearly indestructible .
the effect lessened after i placed him in an isolated chamber , feeding him canned air and water .
it took two weeks .
he began to look hungry and tired .
one day , my knife was able to leave deep cuts on his skin , causing several satisfactory screams .
after that , death came quickly .
renewed examination of the cave air and underground river revealed a common element spores from the bioluminescent fungus .
the microscopic spores could only be seen under powerful magnification .
they floated easily through fine screens , unhampered by sophisticated filtration systems .
the spores were surprisingly resistive to analysis , not affected by any reagent , including aqua regia .
i could not get them to germinate , no matter the richness of the growing medium .
breathed in or swallowed , the spores soon found their way into the blood and the rest of the body .
if intake was stopped , the spores would vanish from the body over a period of two weeks .
i wondered if ingesting a concentrated spore solution would render a man completely indestructible .
the thought appealed to me immediately .
i would find a way of collecting the spores , increasing their potency , and use them on myself .
secrecy was an absolute priority .
none could know but me .
i came up with a way to achieve my goals , ordering my men to install an enhanced filtering system on all air returns supplying our three ventilation fans .
it was placed below the existing air filtration room , accessible through a door hidden in the fan room .
the system used a centrifuge , forcing all particles into multiple filtration screens , separating the spores from the other particles .
hidden deep within the installation was a small chamber , where a pure concentrate of spores accumulated .
the filtration removed all spores from the air in the caves .
i stopped providing my men with river water , substituting it with distilled water from our desalination plant .
soon , my men 's health returned to normal and all was forgotten , the oddity of the healthier times attributed to our isolation , a theory i originated .
the men accepted the explanation readily .
i reflected on the effectiveness of such simple misdirection .
manipulation could be incredibly powerful when yielded with hidden purpose .
with reflection , i could anticipate where their very thoughts would roam , the questions they would ask themselves .
planting a thought , an easy explanation for questions before they arose , could win the battle before it started .
with proper anticipation , with purpose , i could make them think or believe whatever i wanted .
hitler was the first to show me the importance of purpose .
by adding multiple layers of purpose to my actions , each action became clearer , sharper , more defined .
the more purpose i applied , the more order i imposed on the world .
in purpose , i found peace and serenity .
after a few months , the filtration unit had collected a quantity of pure spore concentrate .
considering the efficiency of the process , it collected a rather small quantity of spores over a given period of time .
the reason was the spore 's extremely small size .
a cubic centimeter could hold more than one million of them .
i carefully poured a kilo of spores into a beaker .
it was a fine grey dust , so fine it moved like a thick liquid , rolling around in heavy waves .
when heated , its movement increased , behaving like convection currents in a liquid .
it could not be brought to a boil and could not be made to melt .
it would not freeze .
it was also heavier than lead .
one kilo of spores was a small amount of material .
the movement in its roiling surface fascinated me .
inevitably , one day , all testing done , incapable of waiting any further , i gathered a quantity of spores and dropped it into my waiting mouth .
it mixed with my saliva , coating my mouth and numbing it powerfully .
i swallowed reflexively , feeling a burning sensation when the spores traveled down my throat .
entering my stomach , the burning changed to a warm numbness .
i moved my tongue , vaguely feeling it respond .
i spoke , my words clear despite the numbness .
after an hour , the internal heat lessened , leaving me with an energetic , warm feeling over my entire body .
i had eaten about four times the amount of spores absorbed by my soldiers in the course of a year .
the intense effects i experienced had to be due to the higher concentration .
the annoying numbness remained , spreading over my entire body .
on the other hand , my hearing and my vision were crystal clear .
both body and mind were vibrant with energy , the spores providing all i needed .
i waited a full day for the spores to reach maximum protectiveness and tried to harm myself .
my first attempts were hesitant but i quickly gained confidence when i realized that i absolutely could not do myself any damage .
my favorite attempt was drowning .
my lungs would spasm when inhaling the first gulp of water , sending my chest in a frenzy of inhalations .
eventually reason would overcome the body 's instinctive reactions when it became obvious that nothing bad was happening .
i could breathe water just as easily as air , feeling no discomfort , no sense of running out of oxygen .
this led me to try a simple test .
i stopped breathing .
everything continued along just fine .
i felt no need to breathe .
i got up and ran , holding my breath .
after thirty minutes of strenuous effort , with no ill effects whatsoever , i was convinced .
the spores were not simply protecting me !
they had stopped my bodily functions , eliminating my physical needs .
my heart was beating , so circulation was apparently still necessary , perhaps to move the spores around .
i no longer needed to eat or drink .
my intestinal system would accept food and liquid but analysis determined that i was processing nothing .
if i drank wine , i pissed wine !
i no longer got drunk .
smoking cigarettes provided no nicotine lift .
injecting drugs was impossible needles would not even pierce the skin .
yet , my body felt suffused with energy .
i was replete with it and never used it up .
it was always there , a vast reserve to draw upon .
my strength had more than doubled and was still increasing .
my memory was sharp , my mind clear , overflowing with ideas and plans .
although i felt powerfully alive , the spore concentrate had frozen my body at a single point in time .
the day i ingested those first spores , my body stopped changing .
if i was no longer changing , time no longer held dominion over me .
i was n't indestructible .
i was immortal !
i took the spore concentrate regularly , slowly increasing the quantity i ingested , experimenting with its powerful effects .
the more i took , the stronger i became , the more energetic i felt .
the energy moved in a loop , a vast molten river of energy waiting to erupt at the slightest opportunity .
taking more spores increased the amount of energy but , after a point , it became counter productive , driving me into hyper frenetic actions .
i eventually settled on a specific dose , needing only a regular infusion of spore concentrate to keep me going .
it gave me the stamina to drive my men like a tank .
i became unstoppable .
i often had to control my exuberance .
however , when i was displeased with results , i allowed myself the occasional display of inhuman strength , such as lifting a man bodily off the floor with one arm and snapping his neck like a twig .
these demonstrations sufficed to induce great fear and absolute obedience in my men .
i withheld the discovery of the spores from hitler , knowing it was what he sought .
i no longer wanted to give it to him .
he had been speaking the truth all along .
the spores might well have protected the dying leblanc .
hitler had been right to pursue the take over of the caves but he had been wrong to trust me to do it for him .
leblanc had also been foolish , assuming i would not find his trap .
i had known it would exist before i entered the caves .
it was obvious really , a pathetic attempt .
yet , where it had failed on me , it would succeed with hitler .
leblanc had stored a vast quantity of an oxygen absorbing carbon dioxide compound in the throne room .
hidden vents , located in key areas , would rapidly flood the cave system .
once the trap was triggered , the air would become deadly , without a trace of oxygen .
people would die where they stood .
removing oxygen served a dual purpose .
without it , the fungus became dormant , producing neither light nor spores .
those who died in the caves would remain dead .
leblanc had known about the spores and had chosen his chemicals with them in mind .
leblanc was not quite the fool i took him to be .
my only question was why had he not partaken of the spores ?
what had been his purpose ?
the room he had chosen as the setting for his trap fascinated me .
neanderthal bones lay in niches behind every tapestry , hundreds of skeletons in all .
the history of the caves was far older than anyone ever supposed .
neanderthals vanished from the face of the earth about thirty thousand years ago .
did human history in the caves span that far back ?
how could the fungus spores have remained a secret all that time ?
there was evidence that the main entrances to the caves were repeatedly sealed , both at sea level and on top of the cliff .
the spores did not provide sufficient lure to keep men here .
something drove them off .
when hitler arrived to take over the caves , i would no longer have freedom to learn the answers i sought .
it was unacceptable .
i had already received orders from him , requiring me to kill my men .
i had been planning to do this all along but when the order came from hitler , it seemed likely my own assassination might be next .
it was what i would do .
of course , i no longer feared death but i did not desire to be exposed as an immortal quite yet .
my solution was to anticipate everything and to leave leblanc 's trap as a backup .
i would not be unduly concerned if everyone in the caves died except for me .
however , i wanted to see if hitler 's intent was truly to betray me .
i used the same subterfuge he did , preparing one of my men as my double .
since my weissmuller skin was a disguise to begin with , training another to look like me was child 's play .
copying my speech pattern was simple .
i tended to keep my voice bland , devoid of inflection or accent .
when hitler shot my double in the back of the head , i quietly slipped into my hidden caves and allowed events to unfold , observing everything from the shadows .
inevitably , hitler found the crown under the throne and triggered it .
walking out of my concealed caves , i stood by , reveling in their final gasps .
by activating the trigger , hitler had ensured that none but me would learn of his beloved caves .
the oxygen depletion reduced the caves to near darkness .
my increased sensitivity made it appear as bright as daylight .
of more significance , the dormant fungus no longer produced spores and my filtration system collected less and less concentrate , until one day it was no longer collecting any at all .
anticipating this moment , i had carefully hoarded all concentrate collected to date .
i needed precious little to keep me going .
my calculations indicated the oxygen absorbing chemicals would be exhausted within sixty years or so .
i had just enough concentrate to last until then .
i remained inside for several months , preparing a new skin for myself , a new life .
eventually , i left the caves , ready for a new type of existence , as an immortal .
for a few years , i contented myself with simple , mindless experimentation .
i traveled the countryside doing little more than scouting for the next victim .
the aftermath of war was all around and chaos still reigned supreme .
both police and army were overwhelmed by the staggering needs of recovering nations and my little exercises went by relatively unnoticed .
unfortunately , war ended and my excesses became more noticeable .
i travelled through lesser known areas , experimenting wherever chance brought me , honing my skills .
slowly but surely , i was training myself to become the ultimate shadow master .
eventually , my travels brought me to romania .
i loved the carpathian mountains .
romania was a truly ancient land , steeped in fear and superstition for centuries .
it was not long before i learned about 'vampyre ' myths and legends .
one night , after one particularly gory experiment gone wrong , where the male i had chosen moved exactly when i struck , causing a far bigger spray of blood than intended , i wondered if there was a way to have less bloody experiments .
some of my solutions were rather novel , using the local vampyric lore to my advantage .
my enhanced strength allowed me to do many things a vampyre might be expected to do .
after some interesting practice , i could jump down from a rooftop , rip a victim 's throat open with my bare teeth and suck all of his blood in one big draw .
the feeling of killing my prey by draining them of blood was truly inebriating and i reveled in repeating this act , usually on the stroke of midnight , hopefully in front of many witnesses .
dropping the body , i would bound up to the roof of a nearby house and , jumping from rooftop to rooftop , vanish into the shadows , i settled in romania for a while , literally haunting the countryside and inspiring as much fear in the inhabitants as i could achieve .
i killed a local man who had a reputation of being a bit mad and took his skin .
after that , i was able to observe the effects of my experiments firsthand .
every murder could enhance the wave of fear running through the countryside if timed properly .
fear took on a life of its own , jumping from man to man , permeating the very air , making it oppressive and pervasive , inescapable .
once a man was in its grip , there was no release from its merciless clutches .
his thoughts would return again and again to its horrible call .
i could make the fear grow and wane , simply by timing the next vampyric act .
it became mechanical after a while .
i would move into an area and murder people one by one , killing them in a spiral pattern , starting far outside of town , rotating closer and closer to its center .
by using these basic principles , i could create a running , panicked mob within less than thirty minutes , a fact of which i was quite proud .
i became fairly adept at simulating vampyric lore and was not above using theatrical effects , with fog machines and pre recorded sounds , all activated with the most exquisite timing .
as for ingesting blood , i found it completely acceptable .
it made less mess , solving my original concern .
i could no longer taste anything , so it was neutral as a liquid .
my body did not absorb any of the blood and i could simply eliminate it by urinating at a later , more convenient moment .
along the way , simply because it was what i had fallen into , i decided to investigate my namesake , count dracula .
although bram stoker featured the vampyre in his 1897 book , dracula was based on a real man who held an entire continent bathed in fear during his reign in the 1400 's , a renaissance genghis khan .
i needed to know more .
by now , my investigative technique was well practiced .
i would do basic research into which local professors taught my subject of interest .
selecting an acceptable candidate , i developed an appropriate scenario to kidnap the professor .
i always varied the scenario in order to keep the process entertaining and to avoid leaving any type of identifiable pattern .
once i had obtained the professor , i would chain him to a wall prepared in advance .
in order to focus his attention , i would remove one or two appendages , small ones at first and bigger ones if more convincing was necessary .
i would thus induce the specialist to educate me .
i found my heightened senses in these situations enabled total recall and i never forgot their instructions , which were most memorable when the professor 's voice was tinged with a certain amount of fear and pain , acting as a delectable subset .
once my class was finished , i would dispatch the professor as reward for a lesson well learned .
the process was simplicity itself and quite stimulating .
i fondly remembered the years spent selecting and killing the specialists studying etretat , eradicating their accumulated knowledge from history at the same time .
the true meaning of killing two birds with one stone .
in the end , my vampyre history lesson provided me with the information i sought .
known by his loving subjects as vlad the impaler , dracula 's romanian surname , draculea was derived from his father 's title , dracul , although his given name was vlad tepes .
in modern romanian , the word dracul means devil or demon , but in vlad 's day , it meant dragon , derived from the latin draco '' oriental myths referred to dragons as beings of immortal power .
over time , vlad had become connected to vampyric legends .
originally , i blamed bram stoker for fictitious embellishment but i was wrong .
stoker had not originated anything .
certainly , he assembled various stories into a single package but the myth itself was born long before stoker .
the impaler 's bloody history was generally thought to be the reason for his connection to the vampyre myth .
in fact , it was because of his personal quest to attain immortality .
vlad 's fears were simple his enemies and death .
enemies he could kill but death could not be avoided .
like others of his time , he had known of stories about immortality .
there was the philosopher 's stone , of which alchemists spoke , and there were stories about immortals from long ago , in early christian history .
vlad 's search for immortality drove him towards vampyrism in 1474 , soon after he was released from captivity , a few years before he regained his throne for the third and final time .
the professor 's knowledge of this particular historical section was vague .
vlad had traveled far and none knew where he had gone .
when he returned , he had the strength of ten men and lived in the dark .
his acts of brutality grew to extremes , even for him .
the locals finally revolted and , overpowering him through sheer numbers , forced him into a special tomb , beneath the entrance of a church , burying him alive .
his bones were found within the thick granite tomb , still chained into immobility after five hundred years .
as an immortal , i thought myself impervious to harm .
i had not considered eternal entombment .
without a regular infusion of spores , i would lose my special powers , becoming as mortal as the next man .
then i would die .
it was an important lesson .
being immortal did not stop you from getting killed .
it just made it a lot harder to do .
vlad 's quest for immortality had sent him over the edge , his brutality grown into madness .
still , the question remained where had he gone and what had he learned which made him immortal ?
more importantly , what had gone wrong with him ?
what made him a vampyre and me an immortal ?
it took two years to learn the answer .
by then , my vampyre skin had outstayed its welcome .
the locally organized vampyre hunts were becoming quite irritating .
after almost being caught by an enraged mob , despite a number of precautions , i decided to go on a vacation from the local haunts .
my travels were not without purpose , because i had finally tracked down the last remaining draculea family .
i found them living in a small stone house , bereft of any luxury , fallen on hard times .
there were four of them a mother , two little girls , and a decrepit old man .
considering his advanced years , his eyes were wary and piercing .
he did n't buy my innocent act , not for a second .
yet he said nothing , continuing to live the lie , keeping the illusion going .
he was trying to save his family from the devil who had entered their haven of safety .
i waited , doing the same as him , playing my role with consummate skill , the woman and children oblivious to the fate that waited them this night .
after an hour of game playing , the old man pulled out an old brandy bottle , kept in the family for years , probably reserved for grand occasions .
pulling out his tobacco pouch , he asked me to join him outside for some man to man talk .
i drank his spirits and smoked his rolled cigarette , waiting him out .
once fortified with a strong shot of brandy he made a no nonsense plea for the lives of his granddaughter and her two children .
in exchange , he offered himself , giving me his life then and there .
i countered with my own offer , one he could not refuse , for the alternative was death .
the man was old , well over a hundred years , but his mind was still sharp .
i told him to rekindle his memories of ancient family lore .
by design or by luck , i had fallen on a learned man .
he had been well educated in his youth .
i could still see signs of nobility through the ravages of hunger and age .
he knew about vlad dracul and his changes .
the old man 's family had been close to royalty in olden days , before being betrayed by their cousins , and they had been privy to certain secrets .
the old man 's story vlad dracul traveled far in his time , killing people from every part of the continent .
one day , dracul and his retinue came across a group of travelers , white robed monks in appearance , a tempting morsel , apparently easy for the taking .
however , when confronted , weapons appeared as if by magic .
a great battle ensued , dracul barely escaping with his life .
angered by his failure , he pursued the monks relentlessly .
the chase took weeks , with several confrontations , leaving dead on both sides , until only one warrior monk remained alive .
tortured and questioned , he died without uttering a single word .
a strange tattoo , found on the man 's inner thigh , was removed and mounted in a frame .
dracul would occasionally bring out the strange trophy , regaling his guests with the wild tale of its acquisition .
he always puzzled over the tattoo , suspecting it concealed more than he knew .
in 1474 , the answer was revealed while attending a massive orgy .
a young sailor told a joke comparing the shape of a harbor and certain women 's charms .
the talk of a harbor 's outline struck dracul as the solution to his long standing questions .
the tattoo was a map !
the young sailor , named cristophorus , was shown the tattoo , confirming dracul 's belief .
the tattoo was indeed a map .
cristophorus thought it was a map leading to a sacred object of power , referenced by a small drawing akin to a dragon surrounded by beams of lightning .
the problem with the map , according to cristophorus , was that it pointed to a land mass where none was known to exist , far across the endless ocean .
dracul was impressed by the dragon on the tattoo .
he knew of the legends of the dragon .
immortal life could be bestowed upon he who knew the dragon 's secrets .
vlad dracul was at a key point in his life .
he had twice lost his throne and intended to regain it one final time .
unfortunately , dracul was aging and could no longer muster the energy of youth .
he feared death and treachery with every breath he took .
the idea of becoming immortal appealed to him mightily , the solution to all his problems .
he would conquer the entire world and none would be able to stop him .
entering into a pact of secrecy with cristophorus , they set out on a voyage across the open sea , vlad funding their five ship mission .
neither was sure of success but the gamble seemed worth it to both .
fate guided their sails and they arrived to the new land indicated on the map , with relatively few deaths among the crew .
traveling up the coast , they sought a particular inlet , leading to a mighty river .
reaching an area where the compass went wild , they landed and headed north .
they found the ancient mine entrance , exactly as indicated on the tattoo map .
the men made camp and headed deep into the steep , jagged mine .
once inside , dracul found a hidden entrance , breaking through into a concealed room .
there were bags and bags of gold and jewels , rings , crowns , a veritable treasure .
nothing compared to what was in the back of the chamber .
on a platform of pure quartz , lay a golden container , covered with ornate carvings , with two magnificent angels on its lid .
a man ventured too close and was burned by a beam of white lightning .
no iron could be brought near the container .
eventually , the lid was lifted , revealing a white powder of mysterious properties .
when touched by sunlight , the powder would explode violently into light itself .
they removed some of the powder , working in complete darkness , filling a small casket lined with lead .
dracul decided to move the treasure , stealing it from those who had hidden it here .
their ships ' holds were filled to overflowing .
over laden as they were , the ships would not survive a trip across the open sea .
a local island was found where the treasure could be temporarily buried .
the golden container was considerably more difficult to move , requiring a separate trip .
carefully sealed inside a lead lined wooden box , it was transported on a solid wooden raft lashed with rope .
a single piece of iron could bring about deadly lightning .
the men were very afraid of it .
the treasure was unloaded safely to its new home , an oak tree island , off the main coast of the new land .
a deep pit was dug and oak platforms built .
after the treasure was lowered down , the pit was refilled and closed .
markers were placed on the island to help them find it when they returned .
they had kept some treasure , of course .
a golden scroll had been found in the dragon box , along with the powder .
dracul took the scroll and the small box filled with white powder .
it was n't long before he experimented with the powder .
it had powerful effects , making him stronger and invulnerable to harm .
unfortunately , he also became extremely sensitive to light .
in the presence of strong sunlight , his skin would burn and boil .
by the time the ship returned to recognizable shores , dracul was a changed man .
the men feared for their lives more than ever .
dracul had never shared secrets well and had no intention of changing old habits now .
he had decided all must die , planning to do away with them on the eve before landfall .
his plan was altered by fate , when thirteen french and portuguese ships , at war with the flemish , attacked their five ships .
by pure hazard , cristophorus 's ship , the 'bechalla ' had chosen to fly under the flag of flanders , reason enough for the thirteen ships to attack .
dracul used the opportunity to kill as many of his men as he could .
cristophorus realized his coming fate .
he had just enough time to grab the tattoo map and the golden scroll before jumping overboard .
dracul never saw him again , thinking his first mate drowned .
dracul deserted the bechalla , keeping only the casket of powder and a small amount of gold , sending the doomed ship to the bottom before the attackers could lay a hand on her .
after he returned to his homeland , dracul started down a path of bloody war and destruction .
it only stopped when he was captured by his own men and buried alive . ''
the old man finished his tale .
he had done well and his information had proven highly pertinent .
i stood up to my full height , placed my hand on his shoulder and pulled him to me , biting into his throat , draining him of his lifeblood .
i took more time with the others .
i had all night .
my actions were almost perfunctory , distracted by question upon question , filling a vast field in my mind .
what treasure had dracul found , who placed it there , where was that powder filled casket now ?
was the powder made of spores from the caves ?
i did not think so .
the spores had never made my skin burn and boil in sunlight .
dracul 's powder might be a related substance but it was not spores .
a humorous thought occurred to me .
dracul 's excesses became understandable , particularly if he suffered from the same damnable numbness as i did .
he would be craving stronger and stronger stimulus .
he was probably never a vampire but , rather , a misunderstood immortal .
i decided to travel to central romania , in the wallachia region and visit poenari castle , vlad dracul 's residential home .
i was curious to see if i could find any evidence of his powder casket .
i enjoyed traveling , having developed a game i called 'straight line walking ' , playable only by members of the immortal club .
as an immortal , i was infused with an ocean of energy .
it never stopped pouring out , always a thousand times what i needed .
my strength was such that i could carve handholds into rock with bare hands .
i needed neither sleep , nor food , nor air .
so , i took it upon myself to pick a direction and walk in as straight a line as possible , no matter what obstructions stood in my way .
i could walk at a good clip , averaging about forty kilometers an hour .
it was an entertaining pastime and occupied me while i traveled towards my goal .
i added little twists to the game .
for example , if i arrived directly in front of a door , then i was to go in and perform an experiment on the first person i encountered , as rapidly as possible .
it happened more often than one would imagine , even if i had to veer a little .
i carried a five year 's supply of spores at all times , the remainder safely stashed within the caves .
when compressed and treated with a certain degree of heat , spores could be packed into little centimeter cubes .
i needed only one of them every two weeks to keep my condition steady .
when i was straight line walking , i had a tendency to consume two cubes instead of one , which would give me a torrent of energy .
i arrived at the remote wallachia region and made my way to dracul 's favorite home .
i was disappointed .
little was left of the once impressive castle .
small sections of outer walls here and there .
that was all .
any ancient hiding place was long gone .
perhaps there was no powder left .
dracul 's small casket would have held a finite amount of powder .
at some point , dracul would have run out , his supply a continent away .
i had been quite scientific in my self dosing of spores .
it was unlikely the impaler would have had the same caution .
dracul was killed in battle against the turks , going to war against them with a far inferior force .
it sounded like the act of an immortal , convinced he could never be stopped .
there were rumors of treachery by his men .
despite the smaller army , dracul 's strength and energy were sufficient to push them to a brutal and bloody victory .
at the final moment , with triumph solidly in his grasp , his men fell upon him , catching the impaler unaware .
chaining him , he was entombed under a church , the men hoping god himself would lend a hand in keeping the monster buried .
as for the powder casket , it was likely dracul never kept it far from his sight .
it would have been with him or near him on the traitorous night of his downfall .
it would not have remained in poenari castle .
someone would have stolen the powder , craving dracul 's powers .
finding it today would be an impossible stroke of luck .
if someone had stolen it back then , perhaps another immortal had been born after dracul 's downfall .
could dracul 's powder have caused the birth of the vampirism myth ?
i was convinced of it .
vampyrism had never been vampyrism .
it had been immortality .
eventually , inevitably , the box would have been emptied .
whoever used it lasted only as long as their supply .
warrior monks had held its secret prior to 1474. who were they ?
more importantly , were they still around ?
the monks themselves had not been immortal .
what would make a man refuse the call of immortality ?
were the monks motivated by religious fervor ?
dracul had lived in another castle , long before poenari , basing his attacks from there while in exile from his native lands .
bran castle .
a quick specialist session later , using the last professor available on this topic in the area , informed me i was on the right track .
bran castle was built by teutonic knights , a branch of the knights templar , created to protect german travelers heading to jerusalem .
the knights templar 's presence in jerusalem was linked to a mythical treasure hidden beneath solomon 's temple .
dracul 's winged box could have been the ark of the covenant , once hidden below solomon 's temple .
swallowing an additional cube , i headed towards bran castle , straight line walking , sorting out the implications all the while .
the impaler had latched on to another group 's plans , either by accident or by design .
his time spent in bran castle probably gave him some clue .
my visit there would verify that .
perhaps his encounter with the four monks was not accidental .
he had been looking for what they carried , the tattooed map .
he intercepted them and stole their map for himself .
what the map led to could be nothing else than the lost gold of the knights templar , vanished after king philip the fourth attempted to seize it , on friday , october 13 , 1307 , the most infamous day in history .
some of the knights templar survived , hiding their treasure where no man would find it , on an unknown continent .
once again this led me to an inevitable question .
this was the powder of immortality .
why hide it away from everybody ?
perhaps the power of immortality was more dangerous than i thought .
others knew of it , and had become immortal before me .
where were they all now ?
one would assume the world would be proliferating with immortals , considering they never die .
in fact , there was almost no historical information about such people .
i knew of only one involved in such searches .
ponce de leon , reputed to have found the fountain of youth .
needing a quick refresher course , i did a brief stopover at the city of cimbulung for a speedy session with a history professor from the local university .
pressing him for information with my knife , he informed me ponce de leon had been on christopher columbus ' second voyage to north america , in 1493 .
i dropped my knife in surprise , nearly killing the professor in the process .
i had to work rapidly to force more information out of him before he died .
my efforts were rewarded before he breathed his last , when he told me christopher columbus 's real name , in its original form cristophorus columbus .
i returned on my trail to bran castle , fortified by this last bit of news .
the different trails were merging .
vlad the impaler 's first mate , cristophorus , had been christopher columbus .
ponce de leon had berthed on a ship with the only other man to know immortality was real .
after his lucky escape from dracul , columbus went back to north america to find the treasure he had left behind , taking ponce de leon with him .
when they returned from their trip , they split up , leon 's quest for immortality taking him to what is known as florida today .
arriving at bran castle , i dispatched the guards , a la vampyre , squeezing all three corpses in a small closet , a tight fit .
shortly after , i found the hidden passageway leading from the first floor to the third .
the small room , halfway up the staircase , had little to give away .
it was empty , save for a few religious carvings on the wall .
the star of david , the yin and yang of the orient , the egyptian ankh , and the ancient swastika .
all seemed to roll around concepts inherent in immortality .
apart from that , the teutonic knights had left nothing behind .
i stayed in the city of bran and visited brasov a few times , sampling the local inhabitants .
i managed to create a bit of a ruckus , forgetting myself and using the vampyric method yet again .
i justified my actions by reasoning that habits are easily learned and hard to unlearn .
i had grown extremely fond of the vampyric way of taking human life .
in a world of numbness , it was the only experience still giving me physical stimulus .
the numbness was having an effect upon me .
slowly but surely , i felt more and more removed from my environment , as if i were somehow floating through an illusion where nothing mattered , more a movie than life itself .
at times , more often lately , i felt driven to go on a rampage , to cause as much mayhem as possible , just to prove that something of this world was real , that something mattered !
when hapless officers of the law cornered me , the resulting violence left me completely unfazed .
i was forgetting the taste of food , the taste of life .
to dispel the numbness , i had to become mortal again and that i could not , would not , do .
i was imprisoned in a growing cycle of excesses .
through all this , vampyrism found a niche in me .
i could feel the prey 's heart pulsing in their blood when i drank it .
i was invariably looking in their eyes , draining them , taking their life with their last blood , seeing it go and feeling it flooding into me .
it was all i had .
i did not want to stop killing specimens in the vampyric way .
how could you refuse what you wanted ?
i had been taken over by an idea .
true , the idea translated into real life , with acts of vampyrism , but the very idea of vampyrism had taken hold in my mind and would not be rooted out .
i should stop draining my victims , yet i craved it more at the same time .
my mind , in complete control over everything , weakened terribly in this one area .
i wished i had never been exposed to it in the first place but wishes could do nothing .
however , by indulging in this one weakness , i remained strong in all others .
my mind was clear , as long as i accepted blood sucking as my basic method of killing .
it was an inkling of the true challenge faced by previous immortals .
perhaps the numbness eventually drove men mad .
perhaps the vampyrism idea infection was just the beginning and madness lay ahead in the future .
people might have a valid reason to fear immortals , if they ended up driven to mayhem and destruction by the maddening numbness .
the key to retaining a hold on sanity was purpose .
i had to maintain purpose and , right now , it was going to be learning everything i could about immortality , starting with where it came from .
perhaps i would find answers that would solve the numbness .
many had known of the powder of immortality yet it always ended up buried and forgotten .
vlad 's powder had been in the ark of the covenant .
what it was doing inside such a historical artifact in the first place ?
where had it come from , who had made it ?
the knights templar , who went to jerusalem to steal solomon 's treasure from beneath the temple on the mount , had done so with purpose .
they were rich , well organized and successful in their venture .
they returned with their hoard and with the ark .
then , something happened something changed their opinion about the ark and its powder .
they had not kept the power for themselves .
instead , they had hidden it on a continent unknown to the rest of the world .
the knights templar had feared immortals and their power .
if their organization was still alive after all these centuries , they could well be on the lookout for those such as me , immortals roaming the earth .
they could mean me harm .
i would not give them the chance .
i would find them before they found me .
their knowledge would be mine .
i would be their hunter and they would become my prey .
paul sirenne chapter ten weissmuller and the spores we sat around the conference table for a while , mulling over o'flanahan 's revelation .
he had ferreted out the exact truth of the situation .
weissmuller was the shadow killer , still alive after more than a hundred years , plotting and planning , hidden behind the scenes , manipulating us all !
i was fed up with all this manipulation .
what was it all for ?
weissmuller is after something he can not get .
his research has convinced him he needs me to get what he wants .
he has followed the same trail we are on , the one leblanc laid down for us , '' i said he was missing the key ! ''
we all turned towards briar .
well , it 's obvious when you think of it .
weissmuller 's hands were tied .
the key the abbey has given you has to be what he was looking for , '' he explained .
that 's great briar , now we just have to figure out where the keyhole is and we 'll be fine , '' o'flanahan exclaimed sarcastically .
what i do n't understand here is the difference between weissmuller 's immortality and paul 's . ''
my quizzical look forced him to explain himself .
doctor phillippe informed us spores are causing your indestructibleness .
i can accept that for now , without understanding why the spores can do it .
weissmuller was in the caves for years , with easy access to the spores .
he likely figured out a way to collect them .
he probably figured out how to use them and become immortal .
that 's the way i see it , anyway .
but paul , here , is totally different .
those spores are literally throwing themselves at him .
how come just him ? ''
he paused , a slight smile on his unshaven face .
sorry , but i 'm a bit jealous , i would n't mind some of that immortality myself , if you know what i mean .
still , how come it 's just paul this is happening to ? ''
they did not know about raymonde yet .
should i tell them now ?
no .
something held me back , a feeling i could not explain .
the link between raymonde and i flared up with my hesitation and i felt her agreement flow through wordlessly .
coulter made his own revelation .
i have an idea about that , o'flanahan .
the notes from the books inform us paul is the descendant of whoever arsene lupin was in real life .
we know lupin spent time in the caves .
what if those spores affected lupin back then , leaving a genetic marker , a predisposition for the spores ? ''
do you mean to suggest that once spores enter the body , they have a genetic effect ?
some of my archeological investigations have led me to examine this possibility .
it is a disturbing question , '' briar countered .
i do n't know really .
it 's just speculation .
but something is different about paul .
the spores are going to him and no one else . ''
wait a minute , if what you say is accurate , would n't it also be true of miss raymonde ?
she is leblanc 's great granddaughter after all .
he spent no less time in the caves than lupin .
she should have the same genetic predisposition as paul , '' briar interjected unexpectedly .
i should have expected the sharp minded briar to connect her into it .
he was looking at raymonde , deep in thought .
i had to get him away from that line of investigation .
how quickly my decision for deceit was leading to complications .
in the end , i resorted to misdirection , just enough to sow some doubt .
perhaps coulter is only partially right .
the genetic alteration might only be passed down to the male of the species .
i admit this sounds sexist but it is not without precedent . ''
i can say that i do not feel as paul does , '' added raymonde , not lying , technically .
coulter nodded but briar still was n't swayed .
i forged ahead .
no matter the reason , leblanc knew the spores would specifically have an effect on me .
his machinations to bring me here bear this out .
then , there is the ancient key from plantagenet , as briar mentioned .
where does it fit ?
is it related to the four books ? ''
of which we only have three , '' inserted o'flanahan .
yes , we need the fourth book and so does weissmuller .
the key leads to it .
he has been prodding me ruthlessly , to find the fourth book so he can take it , '' i said .
he certainly is confident enough about his abilities .
in order to lead us into the great hunt , he allowed three of the books to fall into our hands .
he must believe himself able to get them back whenever he wants , '' o'flanahan stated , looking over his shoulder nervously .
it supports the theory that he is right here , in the caves , hiding and waiting for the right moment to close his trap upon us . ''
weissmuller seems extremely devious , '' agreed briar .
we must play our cards close to the vest .
let 's keep our search for the fourth book between us , involve no one else .
if we move discreetly , perhaps we can assemble those books without him ever knowing . ''
those damn books , '' protested o'flanahan .
we just ca n't seem to get away from them . ''
no , we ca n't , liam , '' i replied .
without the complete set , i suspect we will remain unable to decipher their mysterious purpose .
however , i do have one card up my sleeve .
i 've told you i have previously had prophetic dreams .
each indicated the next step of the great hunt .
while i can not explain how or why i am getting these dreams , their synchronicity must be recognized .
last night , i had such a dream , it 's message simple we must go southward , until we come to a small french town , where we will find a church and a small tower , up on a hill . ''
that sounds quite familiar , '' briar mentioned .
it should , jonathan .
you and i studied that area together for a while , shortly after we met .
when i had the dream , i could not place it but , after waking up , i remembered it in seconds .
the small french town is rennes le chateau , the church is father sauniere 's church and the tower is known as the magdala tower . ''
briar was stunned .
sauniere ?
of course , how could we not have seen it ?
you have found our link to immortality the magdala tower .
back to it again , after all these years . ''
you 're not talking about the guy who spent three hundred and fifty thousand old francs on his church , when he was earning less than a few hundred francs a year ?
the old priest who built codes in his church , pointing the way to a vast treasure , like the holy grail or the ark of the covenant ?
that guy ? ''
asked o'flanahan , getting more excited by the minute .
yes that man , o'flanahan , '' snapped briar .
i knew he was involved .
it just had to be .
remember in leblanc 's journal , when he mentioned father boudet .
boudet was directly connected to sauniere .
he has probably the one who gave sauniere that fortune . ''
let 's not get lost in a web of conspiracies too quickly .
admittedly , leblanc probably knew about sauniere , through boudet , as you mention o'flanahan .
the codes in leblanc 's books were indeed pointing the way to rennes le chateau .
fine , paul , say i accept your dream has aimed us in the right direction .
what do you intend to do about it ? ''
i intend to go there . ''
but what if weissmuller follows us somehow ? ''
raymonde worried .
let him .
i 'm invulnerable .
what can he do to me ? ''
i replied , winking at her , a slight smile on my face .
that 's just great for you , sirenne , but what about my skin ? ''
objected o'flanahan .
it 's still pretty sensitive to knives , bullets and things .
he might not be able to shoot you but there are others around who can still be hurt . ''
o'flanahan 's blunt words held a wise caution .
it would n't do for me to become brash and careless .
let me call our new allies , the abbey .
they seem well prepared .
with time being of the essence , they might be able to obtain fast transport to rennes le chateau . ''
are you sure you want to do that , paul ? ''
interrupted briar , a concerned look on his face .
the more who know , the less secret this becomes . ''
they already know , jonathan .
their involvement dates from leblanc 's return to life . ''
i recognize that , but do we ever truly know if anyone is on our side .
there seem to be many agendas at work here .
we should be careful not to place too much trust in others .
at least not until we know more about them . ''
come on , briar , we ca n't just sit around , not involving anyone .
we 're in trouble here .
we 've got an immortal serial killer pulling our strings and dogging our footsteps .
we 're hot on the trail of the biggest conspiracy ever , and we 've got all the resources we could need .
i say let 's go for it .
let 's get the fastest jet we can and beat weissmuller to the goods , '' o'flanahan enthused .
i 'm with o'flanahan , '' coulter rallied .
we ca n't let weissmuller haunt these caves a moment longer than necessary .
he could end up killing us all and we are simply not ready to deal with him .
we 're not some mercenary force .
how can we hope to out plan an immortal ?
no , we need to use every resource we 've got and fast .
i 'm not saying we shout about immortality across the rooftops but , still , if we stay like this , we 're already outmatched .
we 've got to gain the upper hand .
weissmuller is after the four books as a set .
once we have those , we might get ahead of the game . ''
perhaps you are right .
unfortunately , we still do n't know why he wants them .
why are they here in the first place ?
who made them ? ''
briar riposted .
raymonde added paul 's instincts have never steered us in the wrong direction .
if he says we go to rennes le chateau , we should go .
if he says call the abbey , let 's call the abbey .
i am just as involved in this as paul is but he is the one chosen to be our leader .
our purpose , all of us , the net and the members of the abbey , is to provide him with whatever help he may need .
my great grandfather , maurice leblanc , discovered immortality by dying in that small cave .
from the moment of his return to life , he fought to protect that knowledge .
now , after nearly one hundred years , these efforts have led directly to paul .
my vote is with him . ''
i felt her emotions flare out strongly from her when she spoke , enlarging in a rapid wave and encompassing our group .
she was swaying them !
it was hypnotic in intensity .
her powers were growing and she was learning how to assert them .
i realized it had been happening all along .
from the moment we had met , she had been instinctively influencing the people around us .
in a flash , my mind connected a series of memories , attaching themselves into an unstoppable chain , as with o'flanahan .
i returned once again to a moment after we entered the tunnels below leblanc 's villa .
both of us had felt numbness , attributed to the cold while wading through water .
now , my mind 's eye showed what i had missed back then .
spores , suspended in the water , zipping through the liquid , attaching themselves to us .
we had begun changing long ago , from the very beginning .
another memory fell into place .
how fast i had run away from norton when he chased me on his one good leg .
i slid down a hundred meters of steep slope effortlessly , running across the beach in moments .
after i jumped in the water , norton shot at me .
at the time , i thought the water had slowed the bullet down , rendering it relatively harmless .
now i knew differently .
i had been hit and hit hard but the bullet had not even penetrated the skin because i was already invulnerable !
i had always been surprised by how easily the net had accepted us and the vallin brothers , for that matter .
raymonde had been there all along , influencing them .
i perceived another purpose in raymonde 's words .
she was erasing herself from the picture , placing me in the center of attention .
she would become less noticed , able to work in the shadows , her abilities hidden from all but me .
the others had left to get ready .
i briefly talked to jacques vallin about his dealings with the monks .
he told me he found them highly organized and efficient but close mouthed .
i asked him to contact his brother and prepare the sub .
then , i called father plantagenet .
mr sirenne , how good to hear from you .
your call is certainly timely .
i was about to call you , '' he informed me .
to call me ?
why ? ''
i have been thinking about our conversation .
i have come to the conclusion that our appearance was unexpected .
did raymond lindon 's note not reach your hands in time ?
was the book not there ? ''
he asked , a note of concern in his voice .
no , actually , it was not , although we have since found it .
that is partly why i was calling .
let me be frank , father . ''
by all means . ''
i understand my ancestors have prepared a trail and that you are part of the trail , following a pre established plan .
unfortunately , there is a problem .
there is a very dangerous interloper involved , someone with his own agenda and he has been messing with the trail . ''
what ?
who ? ''
we believe his name to be weissmuller , the man you mentioned as hitler 's henchman .
he has been masquerading as the shadow killer of late .
he just made an overt move , by attacking raymonde .
luckily , she escaped unharmed . ''
weissmuller ?
that 's impossible , weissmuller died long ago , '' plantagenet flatly refuted .
it was a double . ''
my words threw him into momentary silence , his thoughts thrown into chaos by the revelation .
finally , he gasped two dry words a double ! ''
yes . ''
but he would be too old by now , unless ... '' the monk gasped again , this time in horror .
unless he knew the secret . ''
he knew the secret and so do we . ''
i will not speak of this on the phone .
we must meet in person .
this is extremely disturbing . ''
there is something more .
we have decided that we must travel .
to a tower and a church , '' i said , choosing my words carefully .
that is the proper place to go , '' he answered , just as carefully .
you are progressing quickly .
are other changes happening ? ''
he knew about the spores !
yes , many .
i will not speak of those on the phone either . ''
good .
what do you require ? ''
right now , i would need rapid transport to our chosen location .
perhaps we could meet when we return ? ''
no , that would be too late .
if all is as you say , mr sirenne , there is no time to waste .
we will arrange for the transport you require .
be on the aval cliff , near the bunker , in one hour .
how many will be in your party ? ''
six . ''
that 's fine for what i have in mind . ''
what about our meeting ? ''
we will talk on the way .
i am coming with you . ''
i put the phone down and looked at raymonde .
i felt what you did during the meeting . ''
i held her hand , my every touch numb , our inner connection filling the gap .
i was just stretching a bit , to see if i could do it consciously .
it felt strange , like a new muscle that was n't there before .
i only did it a little but it already felt familiar .
i could feel the effect as an expanding awareness , as if i was generating a field of some sort .
if i closed my eyes , i could perceive all of you around me , without thinking , without seeing .
but each person was different .
with you paul , i was channeling directly inside . ''
you are deep inside .
i feel a link that never goes away . ''
me too , it is the same .
with coulter , i felt my energy flow all over him , as if it was caressing him , '' she looked embarrassed .
i 'm sorry but that 's how it felt .
almost intimate .
at first , when my field enveloped him , his field was different , not moving the same way .
when i kept sliding over him , his field started to move with mine , matching it . ''
i understood what she was describing , empathically feeling what she had done .
jonathan was completely different .
his field was slippery .
i went over it , but did not affect it at all . ''
i wondered about that .
briar had a strong personality .
he was highly independent .
could that strength be expressed in a resistive field around him ?
could being open and receptive , like coulter , make a person more malleable ?
what about o'flanahan ?
what was he like ? ''
i could n't find him .
it 's as if he was n't there . ''
now that was odd .
she continued .
i could n't feel his field .
i just flowed through him without any resistance .
i perceived his body , but not his field . ''
it did n't speak much for o'flanahan 's mental abilities .
well , keep practicing .
i think you 've been doing this instinctively all along , influencing the net and others .
your power works in tandem with mine .
what you said back then is not true .
it 's not just me , it 's both of us . ''
i know that , paul , but we ca n't let anyone know what role i am playing .
like you , i feel it must be kept quiet .
so , for now , we will present you , right in front , while i will remain in the shadows . ''
paul sirenne chapter eleven a trip to rennes le chateau we stood near the bunker , a string of bodyguards all around .
net members had moved the tourists off the cliff .
i felt at peace .
being indestructible was changing my viewpoint about things .
i feared no harm .
none !
fear had been my personal companion all my life .
i had never been an active person , preferring intellectual pursuits .
although having held my own in the few fights i had been inadvertently involved in , i preferred using my wits to get out of trouble .
admittedly , i held a grudging respect of those who used their muscles unthinkingly .
being intelligent did nothing to stop a punch from cracking your jaw .
now , no punch , no bullet could harm me .
i could do anything i wanted and no one could stop me .
the world was mine !
a bubble popped and my perspective returned to where it should have remained .
how easily this power could lead to megalomania .
what would hold anyone back with such power in their hands ?
how did you control invincibility ?
immortality really was dangerous , like a powerful drug .
i had to rein in it effects .
deep inside , i knew what would provide the required control i needed .
it would come from my father , from his careful training , forging in me the exact principles and strengths i would need .
another piece falling into place .
deep in the throes of memory , i approached the edge of the cliff .
in my first dream , i had come to where i stood right now and jumped straight down into the water .
looking at the crashing waves , a hundred meters below , i found the view hypnotic .
i leant forward , almost getting ready to dive right now .
raymonde was suddenly next to me .
someone 's coming .
in the sky .
i can feel them , '' she whispered .
her words brought me back to reality .
what had i been thinking ?
i had almost stepped off a cliff on the whim of it .
could i even have survived such a jump ?
a distant noise interrupted my thoughts .
i looked up at the sky and saw a huge luxury helicopter approaching .
father plantagenet was going to take us there in style .
the helicopter hovered briefly before landing near the bunker .
the side door slid open , revealing a man in a brown frock , flapping powerfully in the rotor generated gusts of wind .
he waved , inviting us over .
although the rotors were spinning a meter over my invulnerable head , i bent down as low as i could and ran closer .
i jumped in after raymonde , and shook father plantagenet 's hand , seating myself next to him .
the others hopped up and strapped in .
the door slid shut , reducing the helicopter 's incredible din to a muted roar .
i leaned over to plantagenet .
are n't you a little old for all this excitement ? ''
i asked him .
my age is of absolutely no consequence in this matter .
i have been waiting for these events all my life , '' he answered without humor .
so you knew about what has been hidden in the caves . ''
yes .
our organization has known for a very long time , though those who know everything are few in number .
you said there had been changes ?
are you changing , mr sirenne ? ''
yes .
i have become as the books .
we have found the spores . ''
then it has truly begun . ''
what has begun ? ''
the monk paused a moment before answering .
there is much i still can not explain , you understand that ? ''
i nodded my head .
i think so .
if you had simply told me what i know now , i probably would not have believed you . ''
good .
you are starting to understand the important things .
belief is the key , my son , never forget that .
sauniere left us with clear instructions in these matters .
we can not lead you .
you must find the way yourself .
i have been very worried by weissmuller 's presence .
it is an unexpected development and a highly unwelcome one at that .
but it was to be expected .
our plan was a risky one , hinged on many uncertainties .
you can not imagine the effort that it has taken to bring you to this point .
the trail was fraught with false leads and with unmistakable danger , as those who have died before you can attest . ''
his admission surprised me .
what does that mean ?
are you saying others have come before me ? ''
he laughed .
mr sirenne , really , are you truly that naive ?
of course you are not the first .
there have been others like you before and a few unlike you as well .
sauniere was your immediate predecessor , a very special man .
it is he we can thank for the four books , a true masterpiece .
unfortunately , none before you were ready , not even sauniere .
all failed in the end .
however , this time we have high hopes .
things are happening exactly as they should despite , despite weissmuller 's presence , which i still have trouble assimilating .
it is very troubling . ''
yes , it was for us as well , '' i said with cynicism .
i can imagine .
what do you think his agenda may be ? ''
i believe he is after the four books . ''
and he could not get the fourth without our involvement .
now i understand .
this is much worse than it looks .
he knows our plans .
you believe him to be changed as well ? ''
yes , all the indications are there . ''
he nodded slowly .
well , it puts more pressure on things but i think we can deal with it .
he would not be the first of his kind we have dealt with .
do you believe he is still hiding in the caves ? ''
there 's a good chance . ''
would you have any objection to us entering the caves and setting up some roving patrols ? ''
when i had met father plantagenet , i had been cautious .
now , i needed his help and his ready resources .
i think that it is exactly what must be done .
bring as many men in as you have .
i 'll give jacques vallin the go ahead to transport your men inside . ''
very good .
my men will not betray your trust .
they are each and every one a man of deep faith , sworn to silence and allegiance . ''
raymonde would put that to the test , when the time came .
so father , what is so important about the four books ? ''
that is what you must learn , my son .
i am sorry for being so cryptic but it can not be helped .
for you to succeed , you must come to your own understanding . ''
so why are you coming with me ? ''
i too have a role to play , mr sirenne .
you may be the chosen one but there are many others playing supporting roles .
they are simply not as apparent .
in this pursuit , the path you choose is everything .
more importantly , your purpose must remain clear . ''
that 's a bit hard when you do n't have a clue what that purpose might be . ''
come now , we both know that 's not true .
your purpose is changing but it is a process of refinement , of removing the non essential elements and avoiding the side trails that constantly present themselves . ''
i found it a bit frustrating speaking to someone whose every word was so distant from actual facts .
where are you taking us ? ''
the pilot has orders to drop us down about five kilometers outside rennes le chateau .
a car will be waiting .
we will go in as tourists . ''
tourists .
i fell silent , seeing no further reason to talk .
the place we were flying to was well known to me .
others had extensively researched the mystery of rennes le chateau and the priest sauniere .
no less than two hundred books had been written about the curious features of sauniere 's church , providing a variety of theories about its hidden purpose , each more fantastic than the other .
at its core , lay a series of undisputable facts , centering around a small town priest named sauniere , who lived from 1852 to 1917 .
he arrived in rennes le chateau as young man in 1885 , coming from the town of clat .
he had been ordained in june 1879 , after his seminary education in carcassone .
he would have remained unknown , were it not for his excavation of local templar church ruins , where he found mysterious documents .
following this discovery , his life changed .
he renovated the church , built an estate for himself , 'villa bethania ' , and a tower on a local hill , 'magdala tower ' , his personal library .
the problem with these construction projects was that sauniere was a poor man , receiving a stipend of three hundred francs a year .
the cost of the church renovations alone was in excess of half a million francs .
sauniere was accused of participating in the illegal selling of masses at one franc each but the documents provided to support the accusation failed to convince an ecclesiastical jury , who cleared him of all charges .
over years , the mystery had grown by leaps and bounds .
sauniere 's church decorations were bizarre , hinting at coded messages .
his magdala tower was no less curious .
stories of buried gold abounded , as well as allusions to a more ancient mystery , the location of the ark of the covenant .
some books claimed a historical conspiracy , that descendants of jesus christ , the merovingians , still roamed the earth today .
finding one 's way in the convoluted mess was no easy task .
in the fifties , the story had grown more complicated .
several new approaches to the decoding of sauniere 's documents led in different directions .
the 'prieure de sion ' made its appearance .
a man named pierre plantard created false genealogical documents , elevating himself to head of the prieure , claiming to be a direct descendant of the merovingian line .
too many perspectives .
isolated from my friends by the roar of the rotor blades , i closed my eyes for a moment .
the moment i did , i became aware of raymonde 's presence inside me .
keeping my eyes closed , i concentrated on the feeling , trying to pin down exactly where it was .
the feeling strengthened and blossomed , bringing raymonde 's presence closer and closer to me .
suddenly , she was there .
i felt her awareness wrapping itself around mine softly , touching me intimately , connecting at a level i would never have believed possible .
in the midst of incredible closeness , a joining of our two minds , i detected a distinct thought that was not mine .
paul ?
can you hear me ? ''
i focused my mind and assembled a clear response , projecting it towards her raymonde ?
is that you ? ''
a blast of surprise and elation flowed through me , powerfully broadcast by her nascent powers .
i ca n't believe it .
we are talking to each other inside our minds . ''
neither can i. i can perceive your every emotion .
you are much stronger than me . ''
our powers are very different . ''
but they seem to complement each other . ''
yes .
my senses are expanding .
i am reaching out further and further . ''
by removing the need to utter words , our thoughts were able to flash at high speed , enabling us to share much in a brief time .
we 're getting close to rennes le chateau .
i can feel it in the distance .
perhaps we should 'disconnect ' , '' i suggested .
after several attempts to close the inner connection , we had to admit failure .
no matter what , we always remained in contact .
it certainly redefined closeness .
i welcomed her presence .
her inner presence and her 'radar sense ' provided replacement perceptions , superseding the numbness and making me feel almost normal again .
i opened my eyes and bright sunlight flooded my mind with rough , grainy detail .
the graininess did not prevent me from noting that father plantagenet was examining both raymonde and i intently .
now was not the time to try and needle any more info out of him .
my every probing attempt , so far , had given me only vague hints about nebulous possibilities .
nothing useful at all .
further attempts would likely yield no better results .
within moments , my concerns about father plantagenet were put to the side , as the helicopter dropped lower , hovering near a small side road , where a white limousine was waiting for us .
greyman chronicles watching the watchers .
by liam o'flanahan the tall , thin man named pierre opened his rucksack , pulling out a sandwich and a bottle of red table wine .
hey , bring me a sandwich too .
i 'm starving . ''
the second man , louis , was younger than the first and , if possible , thinner .
he passed his pair of binoculars to the third man in the small room , a short , squat fellow named robert .
louis accepted the plastic wrapped sandwich from pierre and robert took up the watching post by the window , vacated by the hungry louis .
robert lifted powerful binoculars to his eyes , looking northerly at a church entrance , through a set of carefully adjusted wooden shutters .
it was the usual tourist crowd this afternoon .
the two men reviewed the results of their long vigil , while they munched .
pretty slim pickings , let me tell you .
not a single incident for the entire two weeks .
you sure your friend 's tip was good ? ''
hey , she 's the best astrologist i know .
heck , she was doing readings when she was five years old .
if she says the stars are pointing to something weird , i 'm going to pay attention .
got ta have some faith , man . ''
relax , pierre , i was just asking .
i mean , this is my vacation and my time is running out . ''
i know , me too , but she said this was the time and i 'm going to keep an eye out until the very last second .
it could be history in the making and we 'd be at ground zero . ''
remember in the states , when danny harris finally snapped a picture of a ufo landing at hangar 51 ?
he 'd waited more than six months for that one . ''
and he made the front page of 'conspiracy news ' .
lucky bastard . ''
maybe this time it 's going to be our turn . ''
i just wish i knew what we were supposed to be looking for .
stars are great for portents but not so hot on details . ''
yeah . ''
hey guys , come check this out .
grab your cameras .
i think something 's going down . ''
pierre and louis jumped off their chairs , their half eaten sandwiches flying every which way , scrambling for their digital cameras .
they banged into each other , disentangling quickly , focused on reaching the window within the next nanosecond .
ensconcing themselves next to robert , they trained their cameras through the slats , zooming in on the church .
what are we looking at ? ''
look over there .
see that limousine driving up ? ''
what about it ? ''
apart from the fact we do n't see many of them around here , i 've noticed that design before .
it 's a bulletproof car .
who comes here in a bulletproof limousine ? ''
the other two nodded at robert 's perceptive analysis .
only someone really important would do that .
as well , the only thing drawing anyone here was sauniere 's church .
maybe your friend was right after all .
this could be what we 've been waiting for , '' louis exclaimed , his voice trembling with suppressed excitement .
they 're pulling up near the church .
i wonder who it is ? ''
it could n't be the greyman , could it ?
we could n't be lucky enough to actually get the greyman on film , could we ? ''
he 's not even real .
the greyman is a myth and you know it .
we have a better chance of seeing the immortal count saint germain himself than the greyman . ''
will you two stop arguing .
the point is moot .
the limo 's door is opening . ''
no , that 's just the driver '' and a bodyguard , judging by the thickness of his neck . ''
okay , he 's opening the back door .
someone 's coming out . ''
no , that 's another bodyguard .
darn , the suspense is killing me . ''
me too .
wait , there he , no , there she is .
wow .
who is that ? ''
never seen her before but , man , she 's gorgeous ! ''
hey , keep your eyes in your pants and your camera on their faces .
we need clear headshots . ''
well , they are n't shy , whoever they are .
that grand limousine entrance into rennes le chateau is sure to have alerted the others . ''
you think so ?
usually they tend to keep to their digging . ''
are you kidding me ?
they always keep an eye on the church , just like us .
it 's the honey pot .
everyone who 's looking comes there eventually .
it 's the best place to catch them . ''
another guy is coming out .
he 's holding the woman 's hand . ''
lucky guy .
must be her boyfriend but i 've never seen him before .
do you guys know him ? ''
no , man , he 's nobody .
wait , here 's another one . ''
whoever he is , he sure is fat , look how big his stomach is !
he has n't even shaved .
i do n't know him either .
did you get a good shot of him ? ''
yeah , a real clear one .
look , there 's another one , a tall guy for a change . ''
this is weird .
that 's four people and we do n't know any of them .
they ca n't be important , we know all the important ones . ''
not the greyman .
no one knows what he looks like . ''
enough about the greyman .
you 're always spou ... '' i know that one but i ca n't believe it . ''
robert and louis stopped their bickering , avidly returning to their cameras .
who ? ''
the last guy who just came out , the short one , dressed in a monk 's outfit .
that 's father plantagenet , the man in charge of the abbey . ''
no way .
you ca n't be serious ?
what 's he doing here ?
he never ventures out of the abbey .
he 's got to be what .
eighty , eighty two years old ? ''
at least .
you sure it 's him ? ''
positive .
last year , an italian friend of mine flew a model plane over the main abbey courtyard long enough to snap some pictures of the people there .
he got three shots of plantagenet before they latched on to its signal .
he almost got killed doing that .
they tracked the signal using triangulation and were at his hideout within five minutes .
he was still upstairs when they got there .
it 's a miracle he escaped . ''
man that 's fast .
bastards .
i feel for that guy .
i almost got caught myself , once . ''
we know !
you 've only told us that story a thousand times and it gets more daring every time .
wait , what 's the woman doing ? ''
she 's just standing there . ''
i know , that 's what i mean .
she just stopped . ''
i think her eyes are closed but i 'm not sure .
my camera 's not sharp enough at this zoom level . ''
she reached out and touched the man who had been holding her hand .
instantly , his head swiveled around and stopped exactly in the three watcher 's direction .
each of them felt as if the man was looking directly at them , eye to eye , even though they were well hidden behind angled window shutters and more than a thousand yards from the church .
for what seemed an eternity , they were held in a grip of fear , their hearts racing and their stomachs jumping .
as suddenly as the moment had come , it was gone .
man , what was that ?
did you see that ?
that guy , he , he ... '' he saw us .
i know it , i know he did .
he was looking right at me . ''
he could n't have . ''
i know he could n't have !
but it felt like it just the same . ''
if he knows we 're here , why is n't he doing anything about it ? ''
he 's just looking around now .
he 's ignoring us completely .
maybe it was in our heads .
he did n't see us .
we just thought he did .
right ? ''
i do n't know , man .
i 've never felt anything like that .
i know you two felt it just the same . ''
well , there they go , right into the church , like good little ducks , all in a row . ''
thank god .
i could n't have handled another thing like that .
my nerves are shot . ''
their respite was brief .
robert , still alert , noticed movement from around the corner building .
activating one of the remote burst cameras , they got a better angle , revealing who was sneaking around .
oh god , it 's the israelis , that mossad couple . ''
i thought they were over at mount bucharach , looking for their precious menorah or that book of theirs ? ''
i thought so too .
i do n't know what they 're doing here this early in the morning . ''
they 're doing the exact same as us .
drawn by that limousine . ''
look at that , the opportunists .
they 're going in the church . ''
just keep taping we never know what we can catch on the video . ''
i 'm taping , i 'm taping . ''
guys , is that the americans over there ? ''
two cameras swiveled at the same time and refocused .
you 're right , it is .
and they 're going into the church too , bold as brass . ''
man , i wish we were in there too .
good gosh , look !
there 's the french now . ''
better late than never , it 's their country after all . ''
and there they go , into the church . ''
the three paused for a moment , waiting until the church doors closed fully , before they breathed a sigh of relief .
man , i 've never seen the like .
all of them in the church at the same time .
they must be really curious .
i hope they do n't kill each other . ''
i 'll say .
plantagenet is acting totally out of character .
what is he doing coming out in the open , with a bunch of strangers in tow , acting like a tourist guide , of all things ?
the guy usually deals with heads of state .
these people are total unknowns . ''
yeah , well , why is he helping them then ?
who are they ? ''
they may look like nobodies but what that guy did when he looked at us , that 's not normal .
he 's not nobody .
he 's somebody , we just do n't know who . ''
and the french , the mossad , and the americans seem to know it too . ''
we know what they 're like .
what chance does the abbey have against the mossad , or the others ? ''
hey , do n't kid yourself .
remember , just about every country in the world has skeletons hidden away in the abbey 's closet .
none of them would dare touch those monks . ''
yeah , maybe .
what i do n't get is why the guy saw us but not the mossad and the others . ''
maybe he did .
remember , after he looked at us , he scanned around the place , maybe he saw them . ''
could n't be , man , he was looking at us for a long time .
he hardly looked around anywhere else . ''
how do we know that ?
i was like a deer frozen in the headlights .
subjectively , it felt long , but objectively , it might not be long at all .
let 's prove it one way or the other . ''
we could rewind the video file and time it . ''
robert and pierre busied themselves prepping the video on the monitor , while louis kept a sharp lookout .
they were soon looking at a rerun of the earlier events .
after a few quick rewind and play session , they had the timing down perfectly .
it 's incredible .
first off , she stops moving and closes her eyes .
then she touches him and he stops right away . ''
they do n't even speak . ''
no , not a word but then he looks around . ''
just like one of those scanners in that movie series . ''
yeah , i remember the creepy scanners .
those bulging veins . ''
come on guys , enough .
after that , he begins looking around then comes to us .
we freeze . ''
he stops turning his head for no more than one second then starts scanning around again . ''
he does the same stop and start three more times .
we 've calculated the angles he was looking directly at the mossad after us , then the americans and the french . ''
if he had the same effect on them that he did on us , it might explain why they went into the church .
heck , i would go in there too , if i was n't so worried about getting killed . ''
well , you can call your astrology friend and tell her she was right .
now , we 've got to get to work .
first , we have to contact home base in ottawa and get our team to figure out who the strangers are with plantagenet .
maybe contact the local chapter too .
if my gut feeling is right , i think the lid has just blown off the kettle .
i do n't know who those guys are yet but they 've attracted the attention of just about everybody . ''
what are we going to do about them ? ''
well , duh .
we 're going to have to follow them .
until we know who they are , it 's our only way to track them . ''
how are we going to do that ?
we do n't even have a car . ''
i do n't have a clue .
i 'm working on it .
maybe you could go and see if you ca n't try to rent a local car . ''
from those crooks ?
do you know how much i 'd have to fork over to get a car from them ?
they 're just lying in wait for a sucker like me . ''
hey , we have to follow them , right ?
just get it done . ''
louis stood up and sighed , shaking his head and muttering as he left the room .
robert looked at pierre with a heavy frown .
even if we get a car , there 's no way we can follow them , not for long .
we 'll get found out .
there 's hardly anybody on the roads around here . ''
i know but what can we do ?
we ca n't afford to lose them . ''
what if we put a tracer on them ? ''
we do n't have a tracer , you know that . ''
i know but we do have some wireless subminiature cameras .
i could lengthen the antenna and boost the signal to the max .
we 'd get some video and audio for a while , before they got out of range but we 'd likely be able to track the signal through our french network . ''
pierre smiled .
that is excellent field thinking , robert .
i 'm impressed .
you work on fixing one of the wireless cams and i 'll contact the network to get them ready .
i 'll send the headshots we got to the local branch .
maybe they can figure out who they are . ''
both men worked feverishly .
in their rush , they stopped looking outside for brief intervals .
their inattention almost cost them their prize but the returning louis saved them .
hey , get back to the window , things are happening out there . ''
shit , shit , shit .
i 'm still not done with the antenna . ''
does n't matter .
do it on the way , get out there and do n't miss . ''
what do you take me for ?
i know what 's at stake .
i wo n't miss , i swear . ''
shoot it on the fat guy .
he 'll never feel it land , if you do it right . ''
gotcha .
got ta go . ''
robert ran out the door , still talking , navigating the stairs three at a time , while holding a magnifying glass in one hand and a tiny micro cam in the other .
a specialized air rifle was hanging from his left arm , bobbing all over the place .
by the time he was at the bottom of the stairs , his job was done , the antenna firmly connected , the magnifying glass put away , and he was inserting the cam dart into the air rifle .
he had thousand yards to cover and no time to do it in .
if he was caught , he was dead .
weissmuller recollections , 1954 1960 hunting the abbey part one searching for warrior monks was one thing , finding them was another .
all i had were five hundred year old stories , likely distorted by their passage through time .
i was n't even sure if the monks were still around .
the old man had mentioned columbus escaping from dracul with the map and a golden scroll .
what had become of him ?
i left wallachia and romania behind , heading towards italy .
it was time to get closer to colombus ' home .
i slowed my pace long enough to locate a suitable specialist , a historian in this case .
using my usual methods , i forced him to educate me , killed him and took on his skin .
this is how i became guilio arnak for the next few years .
it was a pattern i repeated every five years or so , finding a new home base , a new skin , always remaining in the shadows , avoiding police , authorities , and performing my experiments with impunity then vanishing into visibility .
i had chosen arnak more for his physical appearance and his work connections than his knowledge .
he was tall and thin , similar to my general profile , making it easy to take on his appearance .
he wore glasses and had a receding hairline , both easily recognizable features .
i adapted a hairpiece for the purpose , cropping it to perfection and used his glasses .
he did not need them anymore .
during our session , arnak had provided me with sufficient details about his personal life to deceive his friends and acquaintances easily .
he had general education as a historian but had recently specialized in ancient documents , exactly what i needed to get into the restricted section of the vatican library .
wearing my new skin comfortably , honed by years of practice , i returned to the light once more , converting arnak 's small apartment into my home base in rome .
it was private enough , enabling me to come and go as i pleased .
before expiring , arnak had informed me that columbus ' voyage diaries of the 1492 voyage to north america were curiously incorrect .
they did not hold up to scrutiny .
attempts to repeat his voyage failed when following his journey descriptions .
columbus could not have followed the itinerary he claimed to have taken .
the conclusion was inescapable .
columbus lied about where he went and what he did .
it was also known he had consulted a map during his voyages .
it never left his person and no one was allowed to examine it .
then there was the matter of ponce de leon .
his presence on columbus ' second voyage to the americas could not be coincidence .
this was the one man known to have searched for immortality .
the problem was that immortality was caused by a powder or spores .
it was not a 'fountain of youth ' as de leon claimed .
his search never went near my caves .
in fact , if one were to believe hernando de escalante fontaneda , a shipwreck survivor who published his memoirs in 1575 , the fountain of youth was in florida , discovered by ponce de leon .
the whole thing was preposterous .
yet , in 1615 , antonio de herrera y tordesillas published another account about the same thing in his 'historia general de los hechos de los castallanos ' .
ponce de leon had to have learned of dracul 's powder of immortality from columbus during the voyage .
it was inevitable .
yet , when he returned from his voyage , ponce de leon left columbus immediately and headed on the wildest goose chase ever recorded , looking for a mythic fountain , ending up in florida , the unlikeliest location possible .
his chase for the fabled fountain had to be complete fabrication .
his search had been no such thing .
it was an attempt to put an entire continent between himself and columbus ' powder of immortality .
ponce de leon had run away , laying down a false trail that anyone connected to the immortality powder would recognize .
who was he running from ?
not columbus certainly .
leon was a rich , influential man , having acquired his wealth through the subjugation of others , an admirable ability requiring strength of character and extreme confidence .
what could make a man like that run ?
why had he not simply ended his search for immortality ?
this very oddity finally convinced me i had the right theory .
leon was already connected to the immortality chase , due to his voyage with columbus .
he could n't pretend he knew nothing about it .
instead , he made a blatant public effort of going in the wrong direction .
he had to have believed himself in mortal danger , the only threat i deemed sufficient to motivate him , a threat which occurred immediately upon his return .
someone confronted columbus and ponce de leon , frightening them terribly .
someone , some organization , had been watching their search , intent on interceding if they got too close to the secret of immortality .
who else could that be but the warrior monks , those who had hidden the powder in the first place ?
this was my reason for settling in rome , in arnak 's skin .
i was now close to the vatican , the center of the most powerful religious organization in the world .
if anyone knew of a warrior monk sect descended from the knights templar , it had to be the roman catholic church , allied with king phillip , the man who had dissolved the templar order in 1307 .
neither phillip nor the church succeeded in their plans .
the templar knowledge and the hoard of riches they sought were long gone , whisked away by the faithful .
a large retinue of warrior monks would have accompanied the gold , likely armed to the teeth .
could this contingent of armed monks have also been carrying knowledge intended to be kept alive by the chosen few , unknown to the rest of the world , keepers of the secrets of immortality .
admittedly , they were a force to be reckoned with if , two hundred and fifty years later , ponce de leon scurried away to florida to escape them .
apparently , the monks not only kept their secrets , they ensured these secrets would remain hidden through the centuries .
once i was successfully established as guilio arnak , i used my skin 's contacts to get within the vatican city 's walls , purportedly to authenticate several disputed documents .
it gave me a chance to peruse the library ensconced within its wall .
i was looking for historical documents between the period of 1307 and 1474 , relating to vlad dracul , christopher columbus and knights templar .
the vatican library infiltration was exceedingly easy due to my excellent choice of a proper skin .
guilio was well known and security measures were a mere formality .
unfortunately , my final goal was not so easily reached .
while pretending to work on document authentication , i did a careful search of the inventory files , browsing rapidly through various categories .
i found gaps in the available historical documents .
it was little surprise that the gaps matched my areas of interest .
their absence confirmed i was on the right track .
if five hundred year old documents were sufficiently sensitive to remove them from the general library today , then they had to contain something serious indeed .
only one place could house the missing documents the vatican secret archives .
access to these rooms was restricted and i could not legitimately provide a reason for needing entry into that area .
i would have to visit the vatican after hours .
i started my expedition at 1 30 am , dressed in black .
i was brimming with energy , a fact easily explained by my recent intake of an extra cube of spores .
my eyes were so attuned to the dark it was as daylight to me .
i arrived near the vatican city enclave by way of via leone north , walking down the length of the narrow street until i reached a ninety degree turn , where the vatican border wall swerved sharply to the left .
directly on the other side of the wall was a narrow alleyway , located near the vatican building in which the records i sought were housed .
the streets were deserted .
i wasted no time , jumping up as high as i could , hitting the wall hard near the second story level .
i dug into the soft brick with my fingers , scaling the wall rapidly , gouging handholds wherever necessary .
it took mere moments to reach the wall 's highest peak , where i paused briefly , hanging like a gargoyle , examining the scene below me .
the vatican city state covered a huge area within the heart of rome .
the wall i had just climbed had been built to seal off access to one of the few areas not already enclosed by existing buildings .
looking below , i detected no nearby presence .
i dropped to the ground , landing as lightly as possible considering the height .
i ran straight along the road , jumped over a hedge on my right , landing in a narrower side road , the salita del giardini .
i kept going at full speed along a small courtyard , doing a running jump onto the vatican building .
i hit the wall with my fingers splayed out , letting them plant themselves into the stone .
i propelled myself upward , ripping my fingers out of the stone explosively , reaching the roof in three easy jumps .
i vaulted over the edge of the wall , landing near the exhaust vent , exactly as planned .
crunching the lock , i ripped the vent cover off and jumped down , feet first , falling about five meters before pushing against the sides of the vent , slowing myself to a stop before reaching the bottom turn .
dropping flat to the ground , i slid along the air vent , looking for an exit screen .
finding one , i waited for a short while to ensure no guards were close by .
popping the screen off its mounts , i slid out , flipping over and landing on my toes , all senses alert .
i was in !
recognizing where i was , i ran through the vatican 's hallways , silently moving closer to my goal with every passing second .
arriving at a locked door , i applied a strong pressure to the door , pushing on the locking mechanism .
all the energy was channeled directly into the bolt , shearing it instantly and the door opened .
i removed the bolt stub from the metal jamb , and dropped it into my pocket , pushing the door closed and getting to work .
i knew approximately where the documents might be located , which was a good thing , as these rooms housed more than a hundred thousand items within their walls .
i had barely begun , when a guard doing his rounds interrupted me .
he was far away and did not venture near this area , a good thing for him .
i was in no mood for trifling interruptions every five minutes .
he was lucky i intended to do this quietly .
chance was with me and i found a pertinent folder right away , bearing the title ade leon .
i could not resist peeking inside .
it was there .
it was all there .
leon 's activities had not gone unnoticed by the vatican .
my eyes locked in on the final notation to the file .
possible involvement of abbey confirmed .
see count st germain file for further details . ''
the count st germain ?
who was that ?
i had to get that file .
unfortunately , it was on the other side of the secret archives , where the guard was .
so be it .
one guard surely would n't be missed .
i saw him come around the corner in the distance , his light flashing back and forth slowly .
dropping to the floor , i scurried across it like a spider , coming upon the guard before his senses even registered my presence .
he was aiming his flashlight down an aisle when i kicked his feet out from under him .
he fell hard on his back , his arms flailing , the flashlight going flying .
i was on him instantly , my hand clamping tight on his mouth and nose , cutting off his air , stopping any sound .
he struggled , managing to hit me once , a punch to my gut .
it was a good effort .
i did n't feel it .
i twisted his head savagely to the side , bit into his neck and drank his blood deep .
i drained him in less than five seconds , feeling his last , frantic heartbeats hammering in his lifeblood .
what a fantastic feeling !
i stayed there immobile , not thinking , flowing with the blood .
i came back to myself , barely aware of where i was , and dropped the corpse .
i stood up , kicking the body into a nearby corner , and continued my search for the count st germain file .
i eventually succeeded in locating it .
hurrying to leave before the changing of the guards , i took the two files , along with the guard 's body , returning to my access vent , where i encountered a serious problem .
an absent guard is quite a different thing than a dead guard .
the guard had to come with me .
unfortunately , his body would not fit into the vent .
i had to force him in .
i crushed his upper body , breaking his chest cage , doing the same to his pelvis .
lifting up the more or less amorphous mass , i inserted it into the access vent , head first , until it was squished in .
i pulled myself in and slid the body along , thanking myself for having drained it of blood .
it would have been so messy otherwise .
vampyrism was a good thing after all .
i reached the end of the air vent channel where it joined the main shaft .
holding the body by its foot , i slid out and looked up the vent , suspecting it would be cumbersome climbing while pulling a dead body along .
looking around for a convenient alternative , i saw a narrow ledge above me which might suit my purpose .
i tossed the guard 's body up onto it , where it fell rather loosely .
jumping up after it , i secured the mass in place with one hand .
i used my other hand to rip strips of metal off the sides of the vent walls , bending them over the body , holding it securely in place .
drained of blood and with fresh air passing by , the body would desiccate and mummify here .
no one should find him , not for years .
standing on the ledge , i propelled myself up towards the vent opening , reaching it easily .
hanging by one hand , i lifted myself out and lowered the lid back down , replacing the broken lock with the new one i had brought .
i stood there , my two files in hand , on the edge of the roof , looking at the massive structures beneath me , the buildings built by man , stretching out as far as my eye could see , a vast domain , mine for the taking .
i was on top of the world .
nothing and no one could stop me .
i was invincible .
i was invisible .
i was the shadow killer .
the file on ponce de leon was thin , but sufficient .
it contained the facts i already suspected , adding that de leon had indeed been seriously harassed , barely surviving an assassination attempt , soon after his return from the new continent .
columbus also suffered his share of problems .
they blamed the harassment and attempted murder on an organization called the abbey .
the file concluded ponce de leon was 'no longer a threat ' , which i interpreted to mean his fountain of youth nonsense had convinced them to leave him alone .
this abbey had to be the warrior monks i was investigating .
they were watchdogs , keeping a lookout for their own reasons , and they were indeed a threat to anyone involved with immortality .
ponce de leon 's file provided a final thread .
columbus had failed in the purpose of his return expeditions .
he had not succeeded in retrieving what he had been seeking in the new continent .
his map survived him , falling into the hands of jacques cartier , another seaborne explorer of the times .
cartier succeeded where columbus had failed , hiding his ill gotten gains in the caves of etretat .
i was the beneficiary of most of that gold .
my fortune was therefore part of the templar treasure .
i opened the file on the count st germain , not knowing what i would find .
it was far more than i expected .
divided into three , the first section contained a bizarre biography of his life , the second presented the church 's suspicions about his immortality and the third , the thinnest , held information about the abbey 's suspected involvement with st germain .
below are summaries of the three sections .
i am now convinced st germain was an immortal .
i also believe he played crucial roles throughout the centuries .
he may well have been the first immortal to defy the abbey .
section one the count st germain 's life no one knew when or where he was really born .
count st germain never spoke of it .
we are left with guesses , some possibly more informed than others .
my favorite theory is that he was the son of francis racoczi ii , prince of transylvania .
racoczi 's children were raised by the emperor of austria but one of them , the likely candidate , was withdrawn from his guardianship and vanished from sight .
however , this is mere supposition , as was most of his biography .
few facts were truly known about this mysterious man .
germain was a generic name , akin to smith in this century .
it was a derivative of the ancient french spelling 'germayn ' .
the 'saint ' in his name did not refer to church ordained sainthood but , rather , was definitive of his supposed place of origin , a common enough appellation in france .
his title of count had been purchased from the pope , not inherited through family , creating a thoroughly murky , inaccurate background .
saint germain first appeared in venice , early in the eighteenth century .
in 1710 , jean philippe rameau , one of france 's leading composers , praised st germain , indicating he was an accomplished musician by that time .
in 1723 , st germain met madame de pompadour , along with a number of austrian and hungarian nobles , such as prince kaunitz and prince ferdinand von lobkowitz .
from 1737 to 1742 , st germain traveled to the court of the shah of persia , where he immersed himself into alchemical studies , which eventually led him to understand the workings of nature .
he arrived in london in 1743 .
horace walpole described st germain , from his time spent in london , as a 'wonderful violinist , who sang , composed , was quite mad , and not very sensible ' .
two of his compositions , dated 1745 and 1760 are still preserved today , in the british museum .
his playing style compared favorably to paganini 's , according to testimony from those who had heard them both .
i never liked paganini .
the count always presented the same countenance .
he was of medium height , powerfully built and appeared to be between forty and fifty years old .
this is how he was described throughout his entire life .
vanishing from london , he reappeared in edinburgh in 1745 , arrested for spying , implicated in the jacobite revolution .
somehow , st germain immediately cleared himself , discharged on the day of his arrest in time to dine with william stanholpe , earl of harrington .
he traveled to vienna in the same year , visiting frederick the great at sans souci , which is where he met voltaire , who said of him 'st germain is a man who was never born , who will never die and who knows everything ' .
he made his fame once more as a violinist , becoming the toast of the town , vanishing from sight again in 1746 .
he reappeared in 1758 , in versailles , bearing specialized dye recipes as his stock in trade .
he ended up housed in the chateau de chambord , through the graces of the king of france , louis xv .
he openly claimed to be centuries old during this period , supporting his claims with eccentric behavior and unexplained lavish wealth .
it was not uncommon for him to present diamonds as gifts .
he became known as a master storyteller , socializing with the rich and famous , and whose skills in alchemy and chemistry could not be denied .
he was familiar with almost any language he encountered .
his knowledge of history was unparalleled , often revealing a perspective not found in books .
he met louis xv and his mistress , madame de pompadour , as soon as he arrived in paris , quickly ensconcing himself as the king 's confidant , to the consternation of his ministers and the jealousy of the court .
he was made privy to intimate details of many affairs of state , being eventually entrusted with several secretive missions .
the missions involved st germain in foreign affairs , behind the back of the king 's ministers .
the displeased ministers had been lying in wait for such an inflammatory incident , something sufficient to oust him from his seat of power .
a warrant for his arrest was issued and , in 1760 , he was forced to flee to england , where he remained for a period of at least two years .
from there , he went to russia , where he involved himself in the affairs that put catherine the great on the throne in 1762 .
after that , silence until 1774 .
the occasion of his return to paris , was louis the sixteenth and marie antoinette 's arrival to the throne of france .
somehow finding himself in their royal chambers , as trusted confidant again , st germain warned of events in the far future , predicting 'there will be a bloodthirsty republic , whose scepter will be the executioner 's knife ' .
the count st germain apparently died , while secluded at eckenforn , in 1784 , his age calculated to be no less than one hundred years at that point , although he still appeared to be an ageless fifty .
he had announced he was tired of life , appearing weak and melancholic to his close friends .
no details exist of his death no tombstone can be found which bears his name .
section two the church investigation into st germain 's activities the church was quite concerned about st germain 's underground activities , generally unknown to the public .
reading the file , i could understand why .
the church was intent on keeping control over the populace at all costs .
some of the count 's activities were designed to undermine the church , by preaching a message to lead the sheep away from the shepherd .
he had a ready audience .
the 1700 's were a breeding ground for secret societies .
initiates from a thousand groups abounded , each claiming roots shrouded in ancient times .
most societies preached that a different path to salvation existed .
the answers initiates sought were reputed to be found in a mythical lost book , a hidden scroll , a forgotten ritual .
it differed , depending on the society .
most 'lost knowledge ' was written or devised by a long gone master , providing spiritual revelation and leading initiates to inner freedom and immortality .
all this sent daggers of fear into the church .
secret societies had revelations over which the church had no control .
eventually , after the st germain 's events , the church enacted a drastic solution .
belonging to a secret society was outlawed upon penalty of death .
in vienna , st germain 's first suspect activities were noted when he took part in the foundation of the order of asiatic brethren of europe 1780 81 , while disguised under the identity of a franciscan monk , justus .
as justus , st germain had spent years in the orient where he made the acquaintance of jewish cabbalists .
he studied their disciplines , obtaining sacred manuscripts and doctrines from them .
these were cleverly incorporated into the order of asiatic brethren , creating the first attempt to mesh jewish and christian faith .
it was quite an ambitious endeavor during those turbulent times .
st germain 's spiritual theories struck at the core of freemasonry , rosicrucian and knight templar beliefs , suggesting his knowledge came from a source predating them .
st germain undertook an all out attempt to change freemasonry , clarifying their incomprehensible rituals .
by this time , the order of the knights templar had been reconstituted .
freemasonry had increased the number of its lodges , until one could be found in every town .
st germain associated himself with other mystics of the times , such as martinez de pasqually , savalette de lange , count gebelin and saint martin , all part of the group known as the lodge of the friends assembled .
later , st germain , with the co operation of savalette , founded the group of philalethes , truth seekers , with the cream of the 'friends assembled ' members .
the prince of hesse , condorcet , cagliostro , all joined this extremely exclusive group .
st germain expounded his unifying theories , in ermenonville and later , in paris , on the rue platriere .
he taught that man has in him infinite possibilities and he must strive unceasingly to free himself of matter in his quest for higher planes of existence .
these discourses were sufficiently motivating to push those attending to organize a general assembly , where every freemason lodge would be represented .
that meeting was when the philalethes attempted to reform freemasonry .
if they had attained their aim , a society of philosopher initiates would have been created , leading mankind to a much different state of existence .
it was not to be .
rivals rapidly extinguished the dawning attempt , flatly refusing to relinquish their hold on the reins of power , preferring that to future spiritual salvation .
had i been there , i would have agreed with them .
st germain 's actions , occurring shortly before his supposed death , were what led the church to consider him dangerous .
during their investigation , they collated many facts about his immortality .
the list grew so long that it was a certainty st germain was immortal .
although count hesse claimed st germain died at his castle in february 1784 , the investigation continued unabated , the church remained convinced his death had been too convenient an artifice .
over time , the facts proved them right .
in the course of their hundred year investigation , the church listed every authenticated report of his appearance after his death .
eventually it became the proof they needed , confirming the fraudulent death and his immortality at the same stroke .
unfortunately , st germain had vanished into the shadows by then , never to be seen again under this guise .
here are the most pertinent facts from the church 's list facts inferring immortality no one ever saw him eat .
he would invite people to lavish feasts but he himself was never once seen to consume a single morsel of food .
this related well to my own lack of hunger , induced by the spores .
he knew too many languages .
french .
english .
italian .
spanish .
portuguese .
greek .
latin .
sanskrit .
chinese .
hebrew .
arabic .
the list went on and on .
he was ambidextrous and could write with both hands simultaneously , indicating enhanced mental abilities .
he was skilled in everything and seemed well experienced when doing it .
no one could have accumulated that amount of experience in a single lifetime .
he held special knowledge not known by the common people .
for example , he could grow pearls artificially and once removed a flaw from a large diamond owned by louis xv .
he could transmute other metals into gold .
casanova witnessed a silver , sixty centime coin transmuted into gold in front of his eyes , in less than two minutes .
this coin fell into the possession of field marshall keith in berlin and still exists today , the only gold sixty centime coin in existence .
he had lavish , unexplained wealth .
he was fascinated with jewels and always carried a box filled with them .
his shoe buckles alone were worth two hundred thousand francs .
he had jewels sown into all of his clothing .
invitations to his sumptuous dinners were encrusted with precious stones .
he had credit at every bank , was never in debt .
the source of his wealth is still unknown to this day .
madame languet de gergy , who first met the count in 1710 , told madame de pompadour that she had received from st germain , while in venice , an elixir which had allowed her to maintain for many years , the appearance of a woman of twenty five .
he had also promised such an elixir to mademoiselle de genlis when she was a child , on the day she reached the age of eighteen .
facts relating to his age two previous alchemists bore the same physical description as count st germain signor geraldi who vanished in 1691 , and lascaris who appeared in 1693 .
lascaris disappeared shortly before saint germain arrived in england .
the church believed they were the same man .
his stories of king francis the first were so detailed and precise they gave the distinct impression he had been present in his court .
in 1760 , countess von georgy met him at the court of louis xv .
stunned to see st germain completely unchanged after fifty years , she challenged his identity .
he quickly related several events known only to the two of them , proving himself who he claimed to be .
in 1821 , the comtesse d'adhemar stated i have seen st germain again , each time , to my amazement , looking the same .
i saw him when the queen was murdered .
i also saw him on the day following the death of the duke d'enghien in january 1815 , and on the eve of the murder of the duke de berry . ''
mademoiselle de genlis insisted she met the count st germain in 1821 , during the negotiations of the treaty of vienna .
the comte de chalons spoke to him , soon afterward in the piazza di san marco .
he was seen in the crowds during the tribunal of princess de lamballe , before her execution .
there were rumors of him alive in paris in 1835 , in milan in 1867 and in egypt during napoleon 's campaign .
napoleon the third kept a dossier on him .
annie besant said she met the count in 1896 .
theosophist c.w .
leadbeater claimed to have met him in 1926 , mentioning that one of st germain 's homes had been a castle in transylvania .
albert vandam in his memoirs , 'an englishman in paris ' , mentioned a major fraser who lived alone and never mentioned his past .
he possessed a marvelous knowledge of all the countries of europe and was lavish with money , though its source remained a mystery .
his memory knew no compare and he hinted his learning did not come from books .
he was known to have mentioned speaking to the emperor nero , dante and so on .
he seemed to be between forty and fifty years of age , of middle height and strongly built .
like st germain , he became the prize of parisian high society and , like st germain , disappeared without leaving a trace .
st germain had to have been an immortal .
not only that , he tried to change the course of humanity in his takeover attempt of the freemason doctrines .
he felt it was important enough to come out of the shadows to do .
his failure , explained in the third section of the file , was what had led the church directly to the doors of the abbey .
section three st germain and the abbey st germain 's immortality was no longer in doubt , although i still had many questions about the nature of his immortality .
it was certainly more akin to a spore caused effect , as opposed to vlad dracul 's powder from the ark of the covenant .
st germain was able to wander in daylight freely , without any fear of burning skin .
did st germain owe his immortality to my caves ?
had he been in them ?
did he know of the spores ?
or was his immortality of yet another type ?
st germain had revealed he held knowledge of immortality through his overt actions and his claims , attracting attention from the church .
the church quickly discovered another group was concerned about st germain 's activities , long before he entered the spiritual arena .
the abbey their influence was first noticed during st germain 's involvement in the jacobite revolution , in 1745 .
he was arrested for treason , despite being involved at the request of king louis xv .
the church uncovered that his arrest did not happen accidentally .
someone had planted a treasonous letter in st germain 's pocket , apparently written by the young pretender to the throne , charles edward stuart .
the forged letter was clever , convincing the authorities they had arrested the right man .
furthermore , the authorities had been informed anonymously about st germain 's supposed treachery .
st germain easily handled the situation , his feet never touching the floor of a prison cell .
the church grew curious about who might have wanted to stop st germain , eventually identifying a group of monks , known as the abbey .
st germain 's travels to other countries were always preceded by false rumors , harassment , and sometimes , outright attempts on his life .
the rumors came from no known source .
the harassment vanished as soon as st germain did .
eventually , st germain held his talks at the freemason general assemblies , with the help of the other philalethes members .
once again , his failure was attributable to an outside influence , operating in the shadows .
the abbey 's hand could be seen , tightening a noose around st germain , even before he began his final , desperate attempt to teach his new doctrines .
unfortunately , the church had not collated many useful facts about the abbey .
it was believed to have started as a small group of initiates , hidden within the deepest recesses of political power .
they had created the knights templar , manipulating the organization for their aims .
the abbey had long known of the coming treachery of king phillip , planning their escape and survival .
they allowed the visible templar order to die , in order for their group to fall into total obscurity .
the abbey disappeared into the folds of history , relentlessly watching and waiting for every moment when immortality reared its head .
they had been at work throughout history , stopping all immortals in their tracks .
each one had been destroyed , vlad dracul among them .
yet , with st germain , they had failed .
he had danced around their plots and subterfuges , escaping them every time .
i could not forget st germain had only been a skin .
he picked up skins and dropped them at his convenience , exactly as i did .
i knew of several times when st germain had used different aliases .
in 1761 , he bought land while claiming to be named surmount .
in 1774 , he presented himself in bavaria , as freiherr reinhard gemmingen guttenberg , count of tsarogy .
in 1776 , he became count welldone .
later he claimed to be francis rakoczy the second .
other skins , like major fraser after his supposed death , and justus , during his study of eastern doctrines , confirmed how alike he and i were .
the immortal became whom he wanted , when he wanted .
the abbey was powerless against him .
unlike me , st germain had chosen to remain in daylight .
he screamed his message for all to hear .
the abbey had brought all their resources to bear , failing to kill him .
admittedly , they managed to stop him from teaching his doctrines but that had been a small victory .
the real goal had been to stop him and , in that , they had failed .
st germain could not be an average immortal .
his easy evasion from the abbey demonstrated him to be far more skilled and experienced than i .
perhaps st germain could prove to be an ally against the abbey .
if i could find him and obtain his knowledge , i would become completely invulnerable .
i resolved there and then , to do exactly that .
i would search for him , study his techniques .
we would become allies against the abbey and rule the world together , immortals in the shadows .
until i had no further need for him , anyway .
paul sirenne chapter twelve the secret in the church exiting from the limousine , raymonde touched my hand .
paul , i can sense people all around .
they seem to be watching us . ''
i stopped immediately and scanned the area .
following her mental directions , i noticed an open window , far up in the hills .
a brief , reflective glint confirmed my suspicions .
peering carefully , i was able to pick out three sets of eyes looking back at me .
i kept looking around and picked out three other groups checking us out .
i could not explain why my eyesight was so sharp .
another change .
what do you want to do ? ''
she sent .
i think we should go in as planned .
everyone with us is armed and we are both invulnerable .
we can protect those who need it . ''
true . ''
let 's just see where this goes . ''
we entered into sauniere 's church , glancing briefly at the garish figure of the demon asmodeus on our left .
heading down the center aisle , i heard the door opening behind us .
looking back , i saw the three groups enter , each moving away from the other in a sullen silence , fraught with tension .
we reached the end of the aisle and stopped in front of the altar , examining the floor .
we were staring at a tile chessboard .
father plantagenet took his place next to us , continuing his role as observer .
come on , it ca n't be that obvious , '' o'flanahan rasped .
nothing comes that easy . ''
i would tend to agree with you , '' briar joined in .
a miracle !
the two of you agreeing on something and in a church to boot .
how fitting , '' exclaimed coulter in a sarcastic tone .
the vallin brothers exploded in laughter .
briar shot them both a look that shut them up .
my friends did not seem aware of the newcomers yet , unlike our bodyguards , who were bristling with professional suspicion , instinctively taking position between us and them .
examining the floor tiles , i found them identical to the tiles in lindon 's home , with the same tiny marks on their edge .
i guess we 're going to be lucky today .
those tiles are chess squares ! ''
i confirmed .
and there is a hollow beneath the same tile as before .
i can sense it , '' she sent to me .
the whole situation struck me as surreal .
napoleon bonaparte 's chess game had made an unexpected return , its presence baffling me .
briar had mentioned napoleon making plans to build a port in etretat .
now , hundreds of years later , sauniere and leblanc both used his chess game .
it had to mean something .
an impatient o'flanahan interrupted my musings .
well , what are we waiting for ?
let 's find the right tile and open it , '' he exclaimed .
we ca n't very well perform an excavation in the floor of the church in broad daylight .
ca n't you see there are tourists about ? ''
retorted briar in an irritated tone .
we have to plan these things . ''
maybe it wo n't take as long as you think ! ''
i added .
what 's up , paul ? ''
coulter asked .
i 've noticed something on the edges of that tile , over there .
might be hinges . ''
hinges implied a handle or a lock .
the grout around the tile looked subtly different in the corners , indicating a place to start .
i read berenger sauniere found a hollow in this floor during his original excavations .
do any of you remember about that ? ''
briar questioned .
there was something hidden in the visigoth altar leg .
a glass vial , with notes in them , i think , '' o'flanahan suggested .
no , that was a decoy , planted to confuse the masses .
there are so many of them in this church .
it is easy to fall into them .
like those angels over there , pointing at those letters , or the reversed crosses in the jesus carvings over there . ''
briar sermonized .
all right , all right , '' o'flanahan gave in , knowing that few rivaled briar 's expertise in sauniere lore .
did n't sauniere find a rock in that hollow ? ''
i asked .
yes , that 's it , a carved rock of some sort , '' briar agreed , nodding his head .
a miniature replica of the devil 's chair , up on mount bucharach , i believe . ''
mount bucharach was also in my dream , '' i said .
that 's all well and good , guys but how are we going to get that tile open with all these people watching ? ''
o'flanahan wondered .
after looking at the groups hovering by the entrance , each surreptitiously looking in our direction , he added in a lower voice .
suspicious people watching us at that .
did you note how odd those tourists are ?
certainly is a multi cultural group . ''
his voice dropped another notch , to a conspiratorial tone .
those guys over there have got to be from the middle east , i 'd put my hand in the fire about that .
and those other three are american .
and if that last group is n't french military , i 'll eat my hat . ''
i saw them all right , mr o'flanahan .
do n't you worry .
i 'm sure we can take them , if it comes to that , right brother ? ''
jacques vallin added .
i can handle those four , if you take the other three , '' acknowledged ives effusively .
well , i do n't like this at all , i must say , '' added briar .
i was so absorbed in what might be under that floor that i never noticed them , despite all my words about vigilance .
what should we do ? ''
we will do nothing for the moment .
as far as everyone is concerned , we are all tourists here .
give me some time to come up with something . ''
paul , i think i can keep them busy , '' raymonde sent .
what can you do ? ''
i returned .
i can slow them down for a few minutes .
start those two guards walking towards them when you 're ready to open that tile . ''
she was going to reverse her radar sense , broadcasting with it , affecting the people in those three groups .
while under her control , these people would become less aware of our actions .
however , focusing on so many people at once might prove to be too much of a drain on her .
we would have to hurry .
okay , raymonde .
just give me a few moments to figure out how to open it . ''
a few moments ?
is that all ? ''
she sent along with a sense of laughter .
i 've almost got it .
i 'm sure of it but i need to look at the tiles a bit closer .
then i 'll know for sure . ''
briar and o'flanahan were standing next to a grouping of four angel statues .
i signaled the vallin brothers and coulter , who were nearest .
they approached , casually looking around , until they were able to hear my whispered words .
i 've got an idea .
can you place yourselves in such a way to hide me from our observers ? ''
sure thing , mr paul . ''
they positioned themselves , innocently talking amongst each other and pointing at this or that church feature .
as soon as they were in place , i dropped straight down , kneeling on the chessboard tile edge .
if this was napoleon 's chess game , i had to accept that sauniere 's church was intrinsically linked to my own quest in the caves of etretat .
nothing in the sauniere mystery had previously alluded to such a connection but the more i thought about it , the more obvious it became .
the documents , unearthed by sauniere in this very church , had opened the door to a piece of forgotten history .
it began in 1108 , when eight men formed an alliance to travel to jerusalem and take it from the moslems , by force if necessary , in order to retrieve the treasure they believed was hidden below the ruins of solomon 's temple .
to achieve this was no small task , requiring a massive army .
these eight men were the origin of the knights templar and the root cause of the first crusade .
recent digs conducted on the mount had revealed the location of their encampment and uncovered the tunnels they had dug to breach the ancient chamber hidden below the destroyed temple in jerusalem .
for more than one thousand years , their actions were forgotten .
all that changed when a bedouin found the first cache of dead sea scrolls .
after years of arduous preservation work , a researcher was able to present the translation of the famous copper scroll , itemizing the list of treasures hidden beneath solomon 's temple .
chief among those treasures was the most fabled of all , the ark of the covenant !
most importantly , the ark was reputed to confer immortality on those who controlled its power .
was the ark of the covenant connected to the cave spores ?
was that what sauniere tried to get across ?
at the very least , with immortality linking sauniere and leblanc 's plans , sauniere 's messages had to be intended for me !
once again , the immensity of the revelation fell upon my shoulders , sagging against the burden placed upon me .
what was worth all this effort ?
i was frustrated , unable to pierce the shroud in front of my eyes .
no matter what my growing intellect revealed , i found only further questions .
to make matters worse , none of them believed in speaking clearly .
everything was codes , puzzles , tricks , decoys , requiring leaps of faith , theories founded upon supposition , the whole collapsing only to be replaced by more complex possibilities .
why could they not simply tell me ?
a rush of warmth flooded me , raymonde bolstering my daunted spirits .
it 's all right paul .
i 'm here for you . ''
her soul touched mine , her peaceful aura suffusing me .
calming down , i remembered father plantagenet 's words belief is the key , my son , never forget that !
i pulled out the ancient key plantagenet had given me , i looked at it with fresh eyes .
thank you raymonde .
that was just what i needed and it has helped me figure it out .
i 'm going to open this tile . ''
my energy was brimming like never before , my senses at a hyper pitch .
it was time .
jacques , send the two bodyguards walking down the aisle towards those men .
get ready to go .
this will happen quickly . ''
plantagenet had given me a key for a reason .
it was shaped like two triangles , one regular and one inverted , traveling straight through each other at a perpendicular angle , forming a cross .
whatever barrel this key fit would need a cross shaped slot .
just like the corners between tiles .
particularly the bottom left intersection below the hollow tile , where my closer examination revealed a discoloration in the grout .
i now had a possible keyhole , and it tied into plantagenet 's words .
where else but in a church would belief be a key ?
the bodyguards were on their way .
i pulled the key off my neck , snapping the string , aligning it over the bottom left intersection .
i pushed the key down very lightly , concerned about my enhanced strength .
there was a slight give and the key went in .
the key reached bottom and i turned it clockwise one quarter turn , hearing an audible 'click ' .
the tile popped open .
seeing an oilskin wrapped item in the small hollow , i pulled it out , clicking the tile back down , and removed the key .
the spring loaded corner reseated itself between the tiles , hiding all evidence of my intrusion .
i stood up , sliding the small package into my satchel .
let 's go .
we 're done here . ''
father plantagenet leaned over to me and whispered expertly done , mr sirenne .
congratulations . ''
nodding to him , i led the others forward , catching up quickly to the bodyguards , still advancing towards the three groups .
we walked rapidly past them , talking about trivial things .
they were looking at us with dull eyes , as if their minds were not on the moment .
we hurried to the door .
coming out of the church , my eyes darted around , looking for any sight of the watchers ensconced in the distant building .
i picked out one of them , lying nearby , on top of a building .
i could see his hand , the top of his head , and the tip of what appeared to be a rifle .
he appeared to be aiming at o'flanahan .
when the watcher squeezed his trigger , i moved between his rifle and o'flanahan .
i felt a light impact in the middle of my back and reached behind , touching something sticky .
i pulled it off and entered into the limo .
the object was small and very sticky on one side .
i could see a small wire wrapped around it and a tiny lens in its center .
i threw it at coulter , seated across from me .
he caught it in mid flight with his right hand .
what do you make of this , fabian ? ''
he examined it curiously .
i 'd say it 's a subminiature wireless camera .
looks like an antenna was added for greater range .
jury rigged job but not bad , all in all .
where did you get it ? ''
somebody just shot it at us . ''
he took the news well in hand .
do you want me to disable it ? ''
if you do n't mind but do n't break it .
it could come in useful later . ''
coulter snapped a compartment open and removed a small disk battery .
finished , he shot me a curious look .
okay , uhm , how did you know someone shot it at us ? ''
my eyes have improved .
i picked those groups out before we even went in , '' i explained , omitting any mention of raymonde 's assistance .
o'flanahan struck at the heart of the situation with his usual single mindedness what did you pull out from under that tile ?
the suspense is killing me . ''
i reached into my satchel and pulled out the oilskin , unwrapping it carefully .
it 's just a stupid piece of rock , '' exclaimed a disappointed o'flanahan .
really , o'flanahan , sauniere would not have hidden it if it were not a crucial clue of some sort .
examination is the key , not offhand comments , '' briar retorted .
the stone had been roughly carved , hollowing out a section of it .
it looked strongly familiar .
i placed it quickly .
this is a miniature replica of the devil 's chair on mount bucharach , exactly like the one previously found by sauniere , in 1875 , '' i explained .
could this be the same one ? ''
asked father plantagenet , his first question since our entry into the church .
no , i think the original is on display in the berenger sauniere museum , '' answered briar .
the original one 's placement beneath the church floor had long been unexplained and is the source of the current fascination with mount bucharach , where the real devil 's chair is situated .
the discovery of a second stone replica , places an entirely different emphasis on its importance . ''
you think we should go look at mount bucharach ? ''
it seems a logical choice , considering that paul also dreamt about it , '' finished briar .
seems like a good direction to me , '' supported coulter , closing the empty battery compartment on the wireless cam .
dead in the water .
they will get no further data from this .
when we get back to my lab , i 'll check it out . ''
he tossed it into his coat pocket , jostling o'flanahan with his elbow .
hey , watch it .
well , i 'm not sure if i agree .
i want to look at more than rocks , '' added a grumbling o'flanahan .
i directed the driver to hurry .
i wanted to be well out of range when those seven 'tourists ' came to their senses .
greyman chronicles the americans thawing out the seven were looking at each other .
each was dealing with a curious sense of internal fuzziness , as if something had occurred without having a clue what it was .
the israelis were the first to recover , pulling their weapons and covering the others , intent on staying in control , no matter what .
the french pulled theirs in reaction , followed by the three americans .
for the first time , the men noticed the new arrivals , the ones who had attracted their attention in so distinctive a fashion , were no longer in the church .
the face off continued briefly , brandished guns hovering nervously , but another more insistent concern was taking over .
where was the group from the limo ?
the americans were the first to drop their guns and lurch for the door .
the french soon followed , with the israelis on their heels .
they ran out in a bunch , the narrow door causing a brief pile up .
they spilled out without a word , their trained eyes scanning every which way .
what just happened ? ''
one of the americans asked .
the mossad agents said nothing , keeping their own counsel .
they knew what this meant .
were they even here ? ''
wondered one of the french .
yes , look , there in the dust , those tire tracks .
they were here all right but where did they go ?
how did they vanish like that ? ''
another american questioned with a baffled tone .
the mossad agents knew but they were n't telling those gentiles .
the time had come , as predicted .
they simply turned away from the americans and the french , walking away without uttering a single word .
silence was best , they would never understand .
the french looked warily at the remaining americans , their guns still by their sides .
it is time for you to move on , '' one of the frenchmen ordered .
we have as much right to be here and you know it , '' an american sniggered back this is our land .
you have no right to behave like this .
this is a peaceful town , monsieur . ''
yeah ?
why do n't you call your government and ask them if they agree with you on that ?
you know just as well as i do that they signed the agreement giving us the right to be here . ''
only as observers , not as aggressors , a fact which you seem to forget , '' argued the frenchman , his gun hand tensing .
you must holster your weapons immediately and walk away .
we will secure the church , do our investigation and duly report to your government .
now leave , '' the second frenchman asserted in a no nonsense tone .
tension flared but the americans knew it was neither the time nor the place to start an incident .
they had to contact headquarters .
this was important .
fine !
have it your way but we better get that report within the next forty eight hours . ''
greyman chronicles the watchers tracking destiny pierre looked at the agents walk away from each other and breathed a sigh of relief .
they had been so heated up with each other that they had never noticed robert , lying within a stone 's throw of them .
he had taken some serious risks getting to that position but it had paid off , or almost .
the girl 's boyfriend had somehow managed to step between robert and his intended target at the last second .
the bug had landed on the boyfriend 's back instead .
he had scooped it off his back in a second .
returning to their rented room , pierre reviewed the video of plantagenet 's departure , watching the second guy enter the limo .
something about him looked familiar .
he could be fabian coulter .
the hair was different but it really could be him .
nervous with excitement , he stabbed at his keyboard with shaky fingers .
coulter .
it could be coulter .
he popped up his underground database , clicked the 'c ' file , and scrolled down the list .
there it was !
he clicked again and a picture filled the screen .
it was him .
pierre knew fabian coulter .
he had met him at a hacker 's convention , a few years back .
coulter had n't even been a guest there and pierre had not known who he was at first .
they had struck up a conversation .
pierre had met him on a few occasions after that night .
what was coulter doing here , mixed up in this mess ?
coulter was an ottawa boy , just like pierre .
he never traveled far from home , he did n't need to .
the guy lived on the internet .
pierre sent a highest priority query to home base , asking maria to check out coulter 's recent movements .
maybe they could track down something more about him .
robert burst through the door , his chest heaving .
he collapsed in the nearest chair , accepting a beer from louis with a nod of thanks .
for a while , he lay there , gasping , finally managing to utter a few words .
did it work ? ''
no , they disabled it . ''
what about the second cam ? ''
what second cam ? ''
did n't you hear me ?
i told you i 'd stick two cams together .
they might think there 's only one .
if the second one is still active , we can still track the signal .
heck , we can do it from right here .
we have two antennas , do n't we ? ''
louis and pierre jumped to their seats , typing on their keyboards like crazy and robert heaved himself off the chair , walking over to the other two .
it 's live .
the second cam is live .
i do n't believe it . ''
stop babbling and begin triangulating . ''
i 'm doing it , so give me a break , okay ? ''
they hurriedly took several measurements , one after the other , overlaying their results on a digitized map of the area .
they 're heading in mount bucharach 's direction ! ''
they sat back in their chairs , the excitement too much to bear .
bucharach was the center of everything .
those guys had to be on to something .
after a moment , pierre said to his two friends one of them 's fabian coulter .
i 've got maria checking on his background as we speak . ''
robert and louis shook their heads .
coulter ?
is n't he some major league hacker ? ''
expert level , from what i heard .
he went professional though . ''
too bad .
what 's he doing here ? ''
do n't know but maria will ferret out something .
she lives in ottawa , a couple of blocks away from coulter 's place .
she 's good at what she does . ''
i think we should pack , get ready to go .
were you able to get a car , louis ? ''
yeah , for a ton of francs , but i got it . ''
pierre nodded and looked at robert .
can you get us mobile with the signal tracker ? ''
i think so .
let me connect with the local network .
you contacted them , right ? ''
yep .
they are on high alert right now , let me tell you . ''
good .
i can use them to do all the legwork in tracking the signal .
then they can relay it all to this laptop .
easy as pi , he he he.
robert 's finger flew over the laptop keyboard , sending message after message .
we 're good to go . ''
the three stood up but , before they went , pierre felt the need to say something important .
guys , coming here was a stretch but it just paid off .
we are at ground zero , in time to see it start , whatever it is , and we know what that means .
things are going to be happening , important things .
some of those things are going to have to do with us .
i ca n't stress how crucial it is that we not fail .
we have to find out where these guys are going and it 's all resting on one hidden wireless cam and our single minded efforts . ''
the other two nodded in understanding .
they grabbed all the equipment they could possibly need , turning off the light when they left the room .
none of them noticed the laptop 's spare battery pack , still behind the large easy chair , where it had fallen about two hours before .
paul sirenne chapter thirteen the hoard of spores when the helicopter lifted into the air , heading towards the top of mount bucharach , my glasses pinged and an image formed on their internal screen .
it was dr phillippe .
he was munching on something .
yes , doctor ? ''
i have had the most stupendous luck , mr sirenne , sir .
it 's just amazing .
you will never believe it . ''
i signaled the others to connect in on the broadcast .
this promised to be good .
go on , doctor , we 're all listening . ''
the screen moved away from the doctor , showing him attempting to move a large stiff canvas sack filled with an incredibly heavy , powdery substance .
this bag is filled with more than one hundred kilos of spores , can you believe that ?
it 's incredible , i tell you , totally incredible . ''
how did this discovery come about , doctor phillippe ? ''
did n't i tell you ?
oh no , i 'm so sorry about that , mr sirenne .
i am so overwhelmed .
very well , let me collect myself .
jean claude , pull back and show them where we are .
i wish i had some tea , my mouth is so dry after that pastry . ''
his assistant moved back and panned slowly around the room .
that 's near the fan room , '' briar said .
correct , mr briar .
you see , i was baffled by a great many things after mr sirenne 's most interesting physical this morning .
the one practical question i kept returning to was where were all the spores ?
we have miles of fungus covered tunnels down here , you all know that .
there should be spores by the billions around us and we should ... '' the doctor lowered his tone and hunched his shoulders towards the camera confidentially we should , by all rights , be as changed as you are , sir , but this is obviously not so .
that is why i asked myself where could all the spores have gone ?
naturally , i thought of the fans , at the heart of this complex . ''
coulter could n't stop himself from jumping in .
of course , the fan room .
that 's where all the dust went .
it had no choice . ''
yes , mr coulter .
it was purely logical .
the next thing was just as logical .
i came in here , where we can see the three massive fans , '' he screamed above the powerful din .
the third one was broken when you first arrived .
it was finally repaired last month .
as part of general maintenance , the metal grill flooring around the fan was examined for loose connections to the cement superstructure .
several bolts were replaced .
it was by pure luck that three of those bolts were replaced consecutively , lowering the position of the metal walkway by a mere two centimeters .
it was just enough to reveal this to my inquisitive eye , this afternoon , when i came looking . ''
his hand was pointing at a slight crack running along the cement between two riveted , floor to ceiling , metal flanges .
when i examined it more closely , i noted a fair amount of air was moving through that small crack .
i wondered if i could be looking at a door , camouflaged to look like a cement wall .
this thought was reinforced when i looked up and saw another thin crack , right up there .
his speech was punctuated by an upward jabbing movement with his hand .
so i looked at those flanges and noted that these three rivets over here , at shoulder height , looked more worn than all the others .
i could n't help but press them .
you can imagine my surprise when this happened . ''
dr phillippe reached up and pressed the three rivets .
they sank under his touch , releasing a latch mechanism , and a camouflaged door swung open .
what 's this , what 's this ? ''
o'flanahan exclaimed with rapt eyes .
yes indeed , mr o'flanahan , but this is nothing .
wait until you see what 's inside . ''
jean claude followed dr phillippe , his camera panning around , revealing a metal landing leading to a descending circular staircase .
they headed down the staircase arriving two levels below , at the bottommost level in the cave complex .
none of us had hitherto suspected the existence of these hidden caves .
reaching the lower level , dr phillippe opened another door .
here the deafening noise of the huge fans above was thankfully muted by more than five meters of solid cement .
of course , seeing this room , everything made sense .
whoever designed this complex was very clever . ''
i would agree , '' concurred briar .
i would very much like to return to the caves and investigate this for myself . ''
dr phillippe continued .
in retrospect , the existence of this room would inevitably have been suspected , if you want my opinion .
it is pure chance i was the first one led to these conclusions .
nonetheless , what we are looking at here , at first sight anyway , is an automated air filtering system .
it takes incoming dust laden air and uses a large centrifuge to force dust out through specially designed vents .
the centrifuge has the added benefit of generating a significant amount of both cold and hot air .
the hot air is vented out in the summer , the cold in the winter keeping the temperature constant in the caves .
anyway , i digress .
the filtered dust goes through there and slides down those chutes , to be expelled outside through hidden vents in the cliff .
that is what i thought until i examined this panel .
i mean it is very interesting but what does it really do ?
and what about those two bolts , one down there and another above , on top over there .
could they not be hinges ?
could these dials have the purpose to fool us into not seeing yet another hidden door ? ''
doctor phillippe pressed a similar set of three rivets on the left metal flange , releasing the front panel of the machine and revealing a second circular staircase .
bravo ! ''
uttered a stunned o'flanahan .
yes , i thought so too , mr o'flanahan .
there is another level below , unsuspected by any of us . ''
that 's pretty smart .
they developed ten levels and we thought that was all there was .
there was nothing stopping other levels existing .
a bad assumption on our part , '' o'flanahan added .
is n't there an underground river blocking access to some other caves ? ''
asked raymonde .
yes there is , miss raymonde , '' answered briar .
the river current is so strong , no normal swimmer could hope to survive in there .
underground rivers are far more dangerous than those on the surface . ''
we 're about to land . ''
the helicopter pilot was letting us know it was time to wrap things up .
dr phillippe hurried to finish .
getting down here , it was obvious that a much more sophisticated filtering system had been installed , completely automatic , intended to remove the spores so that they end up here , '' he lifted a hatch , revealing a curious , flexible material , holding a small quantity of rolling , heavy powder at its center .
it is already collecting more , since i emptied it this afternoon .
what i collected in the bag is probably several years ' worth .
perhaps since the caves have come back to life . ''
this is of strong importance , dr phillippe .
i 'll ask you to keep this discovery extremely quiet . ''
yes sir , mr sirenne .
knowledge of this has been restricted to jean claude and i .
but if i am to investigate further , i really would need more people , particularly if time is of the essence . ''
the doctor was on the ball .
very well .
select ten men you trust . ''
my team is idle right now and i would gladly volunteer them for this task , '' briar offered but dr phillippe shook his head negatively .
thank you but it is not necessary mr briar .
i anticipated mr sirenne and have a team ready to go . ''
good man ! ''
o'flanahan said .
that 's what i like to hear , somebody organized . ''
indeed .
good investigating dr phillippe .
make sure to lock up that spore powder in your office safe and keep it under guard . ''
i added as we landed .
the doctor signed off and i made to exit from the helicopter but was restrained by father plantagenet .
mr sirenne , a minute of your time alone , if you please . ''
i nodded to him , asking the others to wait for me .
what is it , father ? ''
am i to understand you have found hidden levels to the fortress ?
the fortress built by weissmuller ? ''
yes , that is correct . ''
and you have discovered some type of filtration system ?
possibly designed to collect spores ? ''
you are correct .
doctor phillippe found one hundred kilos of spores collected in the final filtration chamber . ''
this is extremely alarming , mr sirenne .
first the discovery of an unknown immortal , weissmuller , and now , a hoard of spores .
we must act quickly . ''
and do what exactly , father ? ''
i did n't like his pushiness .
we must remove the spores from human hands without the slightest delay .
that is our first concern . ''
why ?
what is so alarming about their existence ? ''
mr sirenne , surely you understand how dangerous those spores are .
one hundred kilos is sufficient to create a veritable army of invulnerable soldiers .
whoever held that powder in their hand could well own the world .
immortals , as a rule , are very dangerous . ''
i did n't like where this was going .
immortals like me , father ? ''
no , not like you .
not like you at all .
you have been trained by your father for this exact moment .
additionally , your immortality is genetic in origin , due to your great grandfather 's exposure to the spores .
you are unique , mr sirenne .
we believe it will make you a far different being than those creatures which came before you . ''
plantagenet seemed to know a whole lot about me and my past .
did the spores really have genetic effects ?
that 's not all , mr sirenne .
this weissmuller , the shadow killer , has been bothering me more and more .
he seems to be in the middle of our plans and that is something i do not like .
what is he doing here , meddling in our affairs ?
he is not the greyman , that is certain , but he is an interloper nonetheless , one who seems very canny .
he must be eliminated and quickly . ''
that 's easy to say but the guy 's invisible , masquerading as someone else all the time , not to mention immortal like me . ''
oh no , not like you , mr sirenne .
again , you are unique in the annals of immortality .
no , by my reckoning , weissmuller has been eating spores for over sixty years .
it is amazing he has kept it together for so long . ''
what are you talking about ? ''
spore induced immortality comes at a high price , mr sirenne , something you would do well never to forget .
that price is sanity !
the numbness , which you surely feel this very moment , has been plaguing weissmuller for over sixty years .
by now he has completely forgotten what physical sensations are like .
his mind will be screaming and craving strong acute sensations every maddening second of every day .
it must be eating his mind alive and it will not stop , until he goes totally , irrevocably , mad ! ''
is this my fate as well ? ''
we do not think so .
the training you received from your father should steer your thoughts in the right direction . ''
he was wrong .
i would retain my sanity because of raymonde 's presence within me but i was n't about to tell him that .
dr phillippe will keep the spores in a safe place , while he continues his investigation , which will surely not be finished when we return .
as for weissmuller , you already have your roving patrols in and around the caves .
i will get fabian coulter to install cameras throughout the installation .
it may provide valuable intelligence about weissmuller 's movements , if we are lucky . ''
very well .
that will do for now .
but once we return to the caves , we must eliminate these spores .
i know how to do it . ''
we would see .
for now , our little 'talk ' was over .
i left plantagenet to his slow amble and joined raymonde and my friends to head up the mountain .
greyman chronicles the watchers destiny by the tail did you get all that , louis ? ''
almost everything .
man , am i ever glad we sprung for the wireless cams with mikes .
they were worth every buck .
those guys must be pretty close , for the reception to be so clear , eh pierre ? ''
no , we 're still distant .
the signal is being relayed through the network . ''
thank god for that .
if we were n't sure this was important before , there is absolutely no question of it now . ''
you 're telling me .
they were talking about immortality and linking it to 'spores ' from some caves . ''
yeah , and plantagenet seemed to know all about it , too !
i knew he was in it up to his neck . ''
so , we can take it as confirmed that there is an underground fortress where they collect spores of some sort to make people immortal . ''
man , i knew it , i just knew it , '' louis kept repeating over and over while driving in the signal 's direction .
hey get a hold of yourself , louis .
this is n't the time to get all dreamy eyed about landing in the middle of it .
we 've got to keep our wits about us .
first off , what does this spore stuff make you think of ?
robert ?
louis ? ''
they were silent for only a second .
the holy grail ! ''
exclaimed louis .
the ark of the covenant , '' answered robert , just as convinced , keeping a wary eye on his laptop screen .
i think it 's both , '' countered pierre .
you ca n't prove that , '' objected louis , swerving around a big pothole .
of course not !
but i think i can make a damn good case , '' pierre argued back .
look , you both know we came here because of an astrological prediction , made by our friend back home .
she said the stars were aligning in a very odd way and all sorts of portents could be read into the situation , or none at all , and it was going to start , if it started , at sauniere 's church . ''
what does this have to do with the holy grail and the ark of the covenant ? ''
i 'm getting to it , '' pierre shot back , a little annoyed .
i joined this group because i always knew , deep down , that what was around us was not what it seemed .
there was more to life than this world .
i felt , like you guys , that a veil had been deliberately drawn over my eyes by groups in power .
these groups were trying to retain power forever , and gather more , at the expense of each of us .
the more i looked , the more obvious it was .
anyway , no matter how hard those in power tried , they could n't stop us from finding out everything they tried to hide had a common thread , linked by a single purpose . ''
well put , pierre , '' robert supported from the back seat of the car .
thanks .
that single mysterious purpose has been very hard to pin down , by its very nature but these immortality spores fit the bill perfectly .
let me put together what we know , or at least what we think is the most likely version of the facts .
robert , you mentioned the ark of the covenant , because you know , just as i do , that it contained , not only the tablets of the ten commandments but also the immortality powder from egypt .
it was stolen from the pharaohs by moses himself , while he was at mount horeb .
later , the jews took the powder across the submerged red sea land bridge .
some of it was given to king david when he was a mere shepherd .
it was what gave him the strength to defeat the giant goliath .
his fantastic success in his numerous wars is further proof .
his son , solomon , built the temple of all temples in jerusalem and hid the ark in the sacred vault beneath it , following his father 's instructions to the letter .
unfortunately , by the year 50 ad , romans had killed so many jews that the knowledge was forgotten , lost to time but not lost to history .
more than a thousand years later , eight men , the first knights templar , assembled to retrieve the ark and its immortality powder , spurred by a still unexplained event . ''
pierre stopped talking for a moment .
louis took the opportunity to interject .
what about the holy grail ? ''
fine , fine , fine .
let 's talk about the holy grail but only to put it to rest one final time .
i know you believe the holy grail is the key to everything , louis .
i happen to agree with you but not in the way you think .
if you go right back to the first mention of the holy grail , it becomes obvious it has nothing to do with jesus ' cup from the last supper . ''
yeah , what hogwash !
another lie foisted on us by the blasted church , '' robert chimed in .
a perfect example of an idea virus , really .
a lie presented as myth , to shape our minds and veer them away from the truth , '' agreed pierre , who continued .
no , we all know the holy grail 's real history lies much deeper than christianity , reaching back in time to the egyptians , at the very least . ''
oh , i get where you 're going with this . ''
louis admitted .
it 's all related . ''
you got it .
look , the holy grail has always been known to have special powers for those who possess its secret .
even the church could n't hide that .
in particular , the power of eternal health , the power of granting immortality .
when the church coined that 'cup of jesus christ ' nonsense , they were cannier than we ever thought .
we were made to think of the grail as a thing , as an object with fabled powers .
it ensured mankind would never find it , not in a million years , because it was n't a thing , it was something much more powerful , it was an idea !
the holy grail is not an object , it is immortality itself , embodied by the egyptian powder , held within the ark of the covenant . ''
the other two could not help but nod their heads in agreement .
they were convinced .
louis added his own two cent 's worth i remember the holy grail in that movie , 'excalibur ' .
they searched everywhere for it but could n't find it .
only by nearly dying was the secret revealed to one of the knights of the round table , percival , i think .
only after that could he give life back to king arthur .
i 'm convinced .
it was right there in front of my face all the time .
i just had to see it a different way .
you 're right , pierre . ''
robert added another thought to the mix .
it explains to me how come all these biblical character lived so long , beginning with moses himself .
i mean , he lived to a hundred and twenty when the average life span back then was less than thirty five . ''
pierre was n't finished with his explanation .
i can go further .
when we think about the ark of the covenant , we forget it 's not about an ark , it 's about the covenant .
but what covenant do we speak of , anyway ?
most would say the ten commandments but they would be wrong .
the covenant is far more ancient than that .
it refers to god 's original covenant with the jewish race , the chosen people .
there were never any tablets .
it 's not what moses received on top of the mountain . ''
.
oh , i heard about that one .
is n't it connected to salt or something ? ''
asked louis .
yes , that 's it exactly .
in the torah , the book of numbers , you can read the key line 'it is a covenant of salt forever , before the lord . '
and if that was n't enough , we can read in chronicles , 'the lord god of israel gave the kingdom over israel to david forever , even to him and to his sons , by a covenant of salt . '
robert was still lost .
what does salt have to do with anything ?
i do n't get it . ''
come on , robert , you ca n't be serious ?
salt is the key of it all .
of course , we 're not talking about refined table salt here . ''
louis guffawed out loud at the idea .
salt was the only word which got even close to the idea they were trying to express .
actually , salt is a pretty good match when you think about it .
it was used by egyptians to preserve mummies to ensure eternal life , it preserves food , it is necessary to all life .
it will provide health when present and death when absent .
it is a fine white powder and all men crave it .
what closer comparison to the powder of immortality can there be ?
no , there can be no doubt the ark of the covenant is the repository of the powder of immortality , exactly as written in the bible itself . ''
louis slowed down and stopped to let a herd of sheep cross the road .
it was a big herd and the farmers did n't seem in a hurry to get them across .
it was futile to argue , so they waited while pierre finished his explanation .
so that deals with the holy grail .
it is the powder of immortality held within the ark of the covenant .
the knights templar raised an army , heading to jerusalem with the intention of taking the ark of the covenant back with them when they returned home . ''
why did they do it in the first place ? ''
wondered robert .
nobody really knows .
they used some of the treasure to build their vast empire but that ended in 1307 when king philip arrested them in order to appropriate the powder for himself .
he was dying by then .
the allure of eternal health and immense wealth was irresistible .
but the templars were no fools .
by the time the king 's army illegally savaged their castles , the gold .
and the ark , were gone . ''
and in comes the abbey , '' added louis .
right !
the abbey , with all their secrets .
the keepers of immortality .
when the templars were decimated , king philip could n't get at the teutonic knights , who were in a different country .
that 's where the ark and the templar treasure went , along with all that templar knowledge , let us not forget .
after that , things get murky . ''
the dark ages ! . ''
absolutely .
but , lucky for us , there are still some clues around .
others knew about immortality , or found it on their own .
unfortunately , none of them lived very long .
someone was hunting them down and killing them , like the count st germain . ''
or vlad the impaler.. '' i never put any faith in that dracula as immortal theory . ''
me neither . ''
fine .
i wo n't ever mention it again , '' pouted louis .
pierre laughed and went on , trying to wrap up his explanation before the last of the slow moving sheep crossed the road .
in time , this region was selected by a group in the know , the visigoths , with teutonic backgrounds and everything .
they settled here and hundreds of years later , sauniere came along , somehow putting two and two together .
he spent his life and a mysterious fortune building his beloved church and the magdala tower , leaving a ton of clues behind for everyone to see , in an attempt to lead some of us to the knowledge he was privy to . ''
how fitting that this is where the astrological predictions said it would start , '' stated robert .
who says it 's an accident ?
sauniere was so illuminated , he probably selected the spot because he knew how important it would be , '' pierre added .
hold on , '' interrupted robert from the back , his eyes glued to his monitor .
plantagenet 's group has stopped moving .
we 'd better hurry . ''
paul sirenne chapter fourteen a gain , a loss , an unexpected find this is a total waste of time .
there 's nothing here , '' exploded a red faced o'flanahan .
i would tend to agree with you , on this one occasion , '' nodded briar solemnly , shutting o'flanahan up for a brief moment .
coulter had ideas of his own .
i 'm not so sure .
i mean look at the devil 's chair .
then look at this miniature version .
they 're identical , except for the size . ''
so ? ''
well , this small version is n't a piece of molded and painted plaster .
it seems to be a natural piece of rock .
so how did they find a rock that had the exact same color and grain patterns as the devil 's chair , only in miniature ?
the odds against that are staggering . ''
it 's just like the four books , '' i agreed .
perfect copies .
impossibly perfect .
you 're right coulter .
this is a clue but i 'm not sure yet where it 's going . ''
like i said , a total waste of time , '' o'flanahan ranted again .
maybe coulter could take a few pictures of the devil 's chair and ... '' already done , '' coulter 's voice piped in .
so now we could head to the magdala tower and check that out .
maybe we can find something more useful there , '' i finished .
we looked around a bit more , trying to see something else , long enough for the plantagenet to arrive , bodyguards in tow .
we apologized , heading back down the hill .
he looked tired and accepted to be carried by his bodyguards on the return trip .
i slowed my pace and explained our brief conclusions to him .
he seemed pleased by them and remained silent after that .
our trip to the magdala tower was short but , before landing , i instructed the pilot to do a full circle around the tower to look at it from the same perspective as my dream .
i was struck by how similar the view was , as if i had really flown here in my dream .
the helicopter landed and we exited in short order , hoping to find something more substantial than the ephemeral information gleaned on mount bucharach .
the magdala tower was our last hope .
it was open to the public as a museum , so we had little trouble gaining access without attracting attention .
once inside , another chess game waited for us .
the floor was more ornate this time but it was the same eight by eight squares .
raymonde connected telepathically , explaining something was blocking her senses .
she could not detect any hollows .
i examined the square which had been hollow in lindon 's house but , this time , it was not where we would find our answers .
coulter undertook the tedious process of examining every ceramic tile edge , while we discussed possibilities back and forth .
how about the chess game itself , the one played originally by napoleon bonaparte , '' suggested o'flanahan as a starting point .
maybe we could look at that again . ''
very well , o'flanahan . ''
briar stated , willing to go along .
in that game , we were led to a specific point .
although the crucial move involved a single pawn , the entire game hinged on it . ''
do n't forget it involved the queen , '' i continued .
excellent point , my boy , '' briar agreed .
coulter suggested another idea , standing up from his careful perusal of the tiles .
what if the move in lindon 's house was n't the only move possible ? ''
what are you talking about , coulter ? ''
asked o'flanahan .
leblanc 's journal led us to that one crucial move .
who 's to say saving the king is the only play possible ?
what if we did the opposite and saved the queen ? ''
coulter moved to white 's queen bishop three tile and bent down close , using his techno glasses .
and i would be right .
seems to me like i can see a keyhole , '' he added smugly .
i wasted no time and inserted my special key .
the lid popped open revealing another hollow .
it was empty !
not again ! ''
hollered o'flanahan .
wait ! ''
screamed coulter , his glasses still in magnification mode .
what 's that on the bottom ? ''
i bent down and examined it closely .
what had looked like dirt at first , was , in fact , an old , brownish oilcloth .
it had been covered with a smattering of dust .
it would have been easily missed by whoever had removed the fourth 'hollow needle ' book from the hole .
pull it out , pull it out .
what are you waiting for ? ''
continued the unstoppable o'flanahan .
i lifted the oilcloth gingerly , feeling a flat , flexible object within its folds .
untying the knot at the top of the folded material , i revealed a sheaf of paper .
the last time i had seen paper sheets like those had been when we had broken open the rock cylinder from lindon 's castle in ambrumesy .
i lifted the sheaf out carefully , revealing a tight , clean script , a familiar signature and something none of us had ever expected maurice leblanc 's second journal !
when i read his first journal , nothing in it gave any clue a second one existed .
yet , it made sense .
many questions had been raised by his first journal and left unanswered .
he had given us a specific task , using his coded section at the end of the journal .
now that we had accomplished the first section , or tried to anyway , leblanc had made sure to leave us a note about it .
we could not consider reading the journal in the magdala tower , with prying eyes all around , nor in the helicopter , with its noise and vibration .
we agreed to put it off until our return to the safety of the caves .
we sealed up the tile and returned outside to our limousine , anxious to be on our way .
greyman chronicles the americans figuring it out all right , both of you stop walking right now . ''
walter cross and jim logan twirled around , looking at bill omaha , lagging behind them , his brow creased with worry .
what 's up , omaha ? ''
i need to know what happened back there .
how can we make a report ?
we do n't have a clue what to say . ''
calm down , omaha . ''
how can i , logan ? ''
omaha retorted cynically , shaking his head .
first we were looking at them , whoever they were , the french and those damn israelis right next to us , then the second after , they 're gone , and we 're all standing there , like a bunch of idiots , pointing our guns at each other . ''
walter cross nodded his head .
yeah , it is pretty baffling , i must admit .
i think those israelis had a clue .
they were damn calm about it .
they left without a single word , leaving us to argue with the french . ''
walter 's right about that .
the mossad have always pissed me off with their 'we know more than you ' attitude .
they 're here , the same as us , but i think that they have deeper reasons than we do , you know what i mean ? ''
logan added .
fine , the mossad knows something but we do n't .
we need to figure this out before we call in .
i have to tell them something sensible , '' retorted omaha .
well , something happened to us for sure .
i looked at my watch before we came in and again when i managed to get my bearings .
we lost at least ten minutes . ''
i can remember weird things like i was seeing movements i could n't quite catch .
my thoughts felt sluggish , slowed down . ''
that 's it .
logan , you 're a genius .
we were slowed down , that 's what they did to us . ''
omaha was on to something .
i read an article last year , in a report from the research branch .
it was about fields , magnetic fields or something . ''
not magnetic , electromagnetic , omaha .
i read the same article .
they projected a field at a distance and were able to disrupt the natural electromagnetic field of the test subjects .
it induced a stasis state , if i remember , '' walter cross said .
you got it , cross , that 's the one .
it matches what we felt .
the problem is that it took the dedicated energy of an entire power station to project that field .
how could those people harness that much power ? .
i mean it ca n't be magic , guys . ''
what if they were immortals ? ''
shit , do n't say that , '' shuddered omaha .
no .
you do n't think so , do you ?
god damn it !
i know you 're right .
field projection is a suspected ability of immortals .
okay , well , that changes everything .
no more fooling around .
if we 've got a bunch of damn immortals roaming around , this is our chance to nab one . ''
or better yet , let them lead us to their hole , wherever they crawled out from , '' interrupted cross .
look , i 've been thinking , the answer 's simple .
we do n't really have a problem .
they came here in a limousine , not exactly a subtle move on their part .
anyway , my point is the limousine was their second vehicle .
they arrived originally by helicopter .
we all heard it .
it was what got our attention in the first place .
heck , we were stationed here to wait for something just like this . ''
yeah , yeah , yeah , so what ? ''
logan impatiently asked .
so , if they took off in a helicopter , we can track them , is what .
one phone call will get our satellite to focus on this area .
it 'll be a simple matter to spot them and then , we just have to follow the little blip to their homes . ''
why did n't i think of that ? ''
omaha ranted , looking pleased nonetheless .
he flipped up his cell phone and pressed the rapid dial .
i 'm calling headquarters to set it up .
we do n't have any time to lose . ''
omaha shot off instructions to a nsa agent on the phone , while they ran towards their car .
this was their chance and they were n't going to miss it .
greyman chronicles the watchers powering destiny louis was driving at a breakneck pace , heading north across france , following the directions relayed by robert , who was sitting in the back and collating reports fed by the local watchers chapter .
pierre was sitting next to louis up front , map in hand , trying to anticipate their route .
the gps was useless .
you had to know where you were going to use a gps .
this is great , '' robert exclaimed .
i think that we are going to have coulter 's location pinned down in another thirty minutes , the way things are going . ''
a small speaker emitted a pinging sound .
oh , no , darn , '' robert exclaimed .
what is it ? ''
retorted pierre in alarm .
it 's the laptop battery .
it 's about to run out of juice .
but that 's okay , it 's okay .
we have the spare , right ? ''
yeah , we have the spare .
i mean , i think we do , '' muttered louis from the front , his forehead creased in worry .
i do n't remember grabbing the spare when we jumped in the car , '' objected a concerned sounding pierre .
sorry guys but i do n't . ''
me neither .
damn it , damn it , damn it , '' screamed robert in frustration , hitting the seat next to him several times with his fist .
hey , get a hold of yourself .
this is n't the time or place for a freak fit .
cool heads must prevail here .
too much is at stake , '' screamed pierre , a frightened louis nodding in agreement .
yeah , man .
you should relax .
how much time we got before the battery lets go ? ''
five minutes tops .
if it fails , we lose the data we 've collected so far and we wo n't be able to triangulate where coulter 's base is . ''
okay , fine .
we 've got five minutes to figure this out .
in the meantime , you keep driving as fast as you can , louis .
you , robert , stop your fits and note down the info we do have , on that pad there , next to you .
at the same time we 've got to figure out how to get some more battery power . ''
what about the battery for the car ?
it 's got plenty of juice , '' exclaimed an excited louis , narrowly avoiding a horse drawn cart blocking the road .
too much power , come on , you know that louis .
it would fry the laptop .
nice try but no cigar . ''
wait .
look over there .
a gas station .
yes , yes , go there , louis , hurry get over there .
how much time we got , robert ? ''
four minutes max .
what for ? ''
batteries , man , batteries .
we can buy batteries there .
robert , how many volts do we need ? ''
i 'm not sure . ''
check , damn it , what are you waiting for ? ''
complained a frantic pierre .
louis slammed on the brakes and they screeched to a halt with two minutes to go .
the three piled out of the car , laptop in hand , running into the garage station and confronting a very surprised , grease stained mechanic .
where are your batteries ? ''
we need nine volts .
and not those useless little jobbies either , '' screamed robert while looking under the laptop 's open battery flap .
look for the battery connections .
louis , find us some wires , for pete 's sake . ''
the mechanic was slowly standing up , not understanding what the commotion was about .
pierre grabbed him by the shoulders and shook him up .
time is of the essence , my good man .
we need to know where your batteries are .
right now .
tell us right now . ''
and some tape .
we need some kind of tape , '' screamed louis , brandishing wires and frantically stripping the ends down to bare copper .
and we need some tape .
hurry , '' echoed pierre , shaking the hapless mechanic once more .
the befuddled mechanic lifted a wavering hand and pointed at a small battery display in the corner .
one minute , '' screamed robert at the top of his lungs .
louis threw the stripped wires at him .
he caught one but dropped the other , screaming wordlessly and diving for it .
pierre vaulted over the car hood , reached the display , grabbed it in its entirety and ran back , ripping packages of 'd ' batteries off the rack and tossing them to louis .
would this be helpful ? ''
the mechanic asked in a soft , timid voice , holding up a roll of grey duct tape with a shaking hand .
all three screamed in ecstasy upon seeing the roll .
robert ripped it out of the mechanic 's hand , tearing strips from it and frantically wrapping them around a long stack of 'd ' batteries , held by louis .
there 's one too many , there 's one too many , '' yelled pierre , dropping the battery display to the floor , heedless of the mess he was making .
robert screamed in frustration again and tore the top battery off while louis stuck the wires on both ends of the stack , holding them in place .
do it , do it , '' yelled pierre .
we 're out of time .
you got ta do it now . ''
louis and robert both grabbed a wire and pierre upturned the laptop exposing the battery contacts .
they 're not going to fit . ''
i do n't care !
just jam them in there ! ''
the two slammed the wires down with some force , spurred by desperation and the total lack of time .
the laptop screen did a flicker and kept running .
the three collapsed from nervous exhaustion .
it had been too close .
they hugged the mechanic , laughing nervously all the while , securing the wires with more duct tape , and threw a bunch of francs in the still befuddled mechanic 's hands .
thank you , thank you , '' sputtered pierre .
you can not know how important this was .
please do n't tell anyone about it . ''
waving at the mechanic , the three piled back into the car , still jabbering excitedly , and drove off in a screech of dust .
the mechanic watched them go until they disappeared in the distance .
he shook his head .
tell anyone ?
what could he say ?
he did n't even know what it had been about .
paul sirenne chapter fifteen back to the caves .
the helicopter was gone , taking the diminutive plantagenet with it .
the argos had been waiting for us , the quiet ride giving us time to ponder things .
i could think of nothing else but that journal .
leblanc had held it back , concealing it with the fourth book .
it had to mean something .
unfortunately , someone else had stolen the fourth book before we got there .
mere luck had prevented them from seeing leblanc 's second journal , wrapped in a mud colored oil cloth .
their loss was our gain .
i ca n't stand all this waiting , '' exclaimed o'flanahan .
i need to know what 's in that damn journal . ''
me too .
it 's all i can think about , '' exclaimed a grinning coulter .
all of us burst out laughing , realizing we had been thinking the same thing .
coulter finished by saying do n't worry guys .
i 've got a surprise planned .
i beg you to give me about an hour after we get back and we can get together for a reading unlike any you can imagine . ''
that 's a date , '' rasped o'flanahan .
man , am i ever glad that plantagenet guy did n't come back with us .
he creeps me out .
he 's always looking at us like a lizard .
do n't you get that feeling ? ''
yes , i do , sort of , '' agreed coulter .
i do n't trust him much , even if he was working with leblanc long ago . ''
he seems a dangerous ally , at the very least , '' supported briar .
he was sure anxious to get his paws on our immortality powder , '' o'flanahan pointed out .
i mean , i have n't even tasted any yet .
that does n't sound right or fair . ''
surely you do n't mean to ingest that poison , o'flanahan ? ''
objected briar .
our poor friend paul may not have any choice in the matter but i do n't see that as a reason to endanger anyone else .
you heard plantagenet say it leads to madness and , frankly , i think he 's right .
sorry paul but it 's the truth .
i have to say what i believe .
i think anyone who 's been exposed to this powder is in extreme danger .
not only from the effects of the powder itself , but they will also be identified as an immortal and we have already seen how that attracts unwanted attention . ''
o'flanahan exploded .
sure , all those words are fine , but they wo n't do any difference if a bullet is heading directly towards my head .
i 'm thinking about the practical aspects of our situation here .
listen guys , we 're right in the middle of a worldwide conspiracy and they 're all going to be after what we 've got .
those guys at the church were n't whistling dixie .
that bug they threw at us was no joke .
they are already circling around us like so many flies .
paul , you 've got to think about what 's involved here .
there are lots of real people , our friends , who are in danger , just because we 're looking for some answers .
as leader of this little group of ours , you have to think about them .
we 're not equipped to protect ourselves against some determined force , anxious to take our powder .
we need to get an edge and that powder is it .
i 'll take our best chance at staying alive for now and we can debate the philosophy later , '' o'flanahan finished , jutting his lower jaw out , stubbornly sticking to his guns .
both men had valid arguments .
unfortunately , as usual , they were opposite viewpoints .
i need some time to think .
i would like to retire with raymonde for a brief while .
perhaps we can get back together when coulter gives us a call . ''
the sub docked in the lagoon cave .
raymonde and i headed up the staircase hand in hand , listening to o'flanahan behind us , his words buffeted by the echoing sound of the lagoon waves stupid stairs .
i mean , why do these caves have to have so many damn stairs ?
why did n't that weissmuller put in some elevators ?
it makes no sense , i tell you , no sense at all . ''
please , o'flanahan , could you not give your mouth a rest ? ''
complained briar , sounding irritated .
some of us have more serious things to think about than stairs . ''
it 's just poor design , is all , '' retorted o'flanahan instantly .
and i can see why you do n't mind , being all tall and fit , which is impressive , considering your advanced years .
but me , i 'm short and fat .
it 's not my fault .
it 's a glandular thing , and i got flat feet as well , so when i see these stairs all the time , you can understand why there 's a problem . ''
i could hear briar grinding his teeth from where i stood .
some time alone seemed the perfect thing right now .
raymonde and i returned to our chambers , leaving the bodyguards outside , affording us a brief moment of privacy .
would you like something to drink or eat ? ''
i asked her out of habit .
no thank you , i 'm not thirsty , or hungry or even tired for that matter , '' she said , echoing my own thoughts .
i was hardly able to sleep last night .
i kept my eyes closed but i 'm simply not tired anymore .
this is really happening , paul .
are we going to go mad ? ''
no , i do n't believe it , not for a second , '' i replied .
our changes are not random .
there is a growing telepathic connection between us .
it helps us 'feel ' , i 'm sure of it .
being in contact with each other renders the numbness unimportant . ''
we were both pacing around the room instead of sitting down .
i laughed when i noticed it and sat .
within moments , i was pacing again .
i simply had too much energy .
what are we going to do about our friends , like mr o'flanahan said ? ''
worried raymonde .
we need to think outside the box on this one .
while i do not trust father plantagenet , i do n't think he 's our enemy .
right now , he seems to have the same interests .
as for the future , who knows ?
however , i no longer like having his henchmen meddling in our affairs .
i think it was a mistake to let his men in , even when we have a serial killer among us . ''
what do you think we should do ? ''
it is hard enough to solve this mystery without having increasing turmoil around us .
it .
muddies the picture .
we need to simplify things . ''
raymonde nodded , agreeing with me .
i 'll call jacques vallin , right now .
by morning , all the abbey monks will be gone from the caves . ''
my glasses pinged , followed by raymonde 's .
it was coulter .
come on down .
i 'm all set . ''
coulter had invited us to the auditorium cave , refusing to explain himself in any way .
we arrived , leaving our guards outside .
coulter was brimming with excitement , running up the stairs along the row of chairs .
please come and sit down over here .
the view should be perfect from that angle . ''
o'flanahan had a little smile on his face , laughing to himself when coulter handed him a small set of cheap 3d glasses .
raymonde and i accepted our pairs without comment .
the same could not be said for a displeased briar .
what 's this , mr coulter ?
i do n't want to put these ridiculous things on my face . ''
coulter smiled sheepishly .
look , it 'll all be worthwhile , mr briar .
trust me . ''
yeah , briar , what the heck 's the problem ?
i 'm wearing them .
they fit just fine . ''
with his pair on , o'flanahan somehow looked exactly like an old hippy on an lsd trip .
briar pointed at o'flanahan with his left index finger , his arm held rigidly .
that is exactly why i do not want to wear them . ''
coulter managed to convince briar to wear the 3d glasses by promising no one would look at him .
he ran back down to the stage , dimming the lights .
he exclaimed out loud , using a theatrical gesture hey guys , who 's that over there ? ''
i noticed a man sitting in an antique easy chair , the light around him growing brighter in the deepening gloom .
he looked familiar .
the man smiled briefly , looked around at each of us , then , removing his wide brimmed hat , began speaking through a thick curling mustache .
my dear paul , i must present to you my apologies and my congratulations at one and the same time . ''
it was maurice leblanc .
i looked at coulter with open mouth .
he pressed a button , freezing the ersatz leblanc in mid sentence .
well , what do you think ?
it was so irresistible to do this , '' coulter exclaimed .
yes , a perfect example of paul 's money at work , eh , coulter ? ''
stated o'flanahan .
his serious look rapidly degenerated into a smile .
do n't worry , pal .
i approve .
i think you did a great job .
how 'd you do it ? ''
it was simple enough .
i scanned the journal into the computer .
i had come across some old recordings with leblanc 's voice , so i sampled it .
i found an old film clip of him sitting down in his favorite chair , cleaned it up , then digitized it , processing it into the 3d mode using another program .
finally , i attached leblanc 's facial features to an animation program used to express speech for cartoons and voila .
i have brought you leblanc to read you his second journal . ''
stop patting yourself on the back and get the puppet show going , coulter .
i 'm all ears and tired of waiting , '' replied o'flanahan , single minded as always .
coulter reset the journal to the beginning .
considering coulter 's speedy production , he had done an excellent job and the illusion was perfect .
so , for the next short while , i found myself sitting in leblanc 's presence , feeling as if he was speaking directly to me , which in a very real sense , he was .
maurice leblanc 's second journal my dear paul i must present you my apologies and my congratulations at one and the same time .
finding my second journal can not have been easy .
by now , it must be obvious to you that certain aspects of my previous journal just do n't hold up .
i admit to practicing a certain amount of subterfuge in its presentation , which is the reason for my apology but i ask you to retain some clemency before judging me .
you will soon understand the reasons why i perpetrated such a hoax .
it was crucial my previous journal provide you with answers sufficient to convince you , without betraying the full scope of what was held within the caves .
you could not betray something you did not know .
the journal was not all fiction .
most sections convey accurately what happened .
my feelings were certainly genuine .
i simply could not reveal the spores to you .
it was something you had to discover by yourself .
by now , the abbey monks have surelypresented themselves .
you probably have many questions about them .
i , and they , have been the architects of your life , of your present situation .
the time has come to explain not only how you have gotten here but why as well , to the extent of my ability anyway .
i am not party to all that has gone on .
the story has its roots in many streams of history .
this is why it has so successfully remained hidden from humankind .
who would believe such disparate elements were connected , that the entire history of the world , as we knew it , had been misrepresented , misunderstood by us all ?
i was no different than you .
i had no idea what i was stepping into when i entered into those caves the first time .
it took a mortal blow for real understanding to come to me !
my entire life changed that day .
mine and hitler 's .
he killed me and i came back from the realm of the dead , resuscitated by spores in the dust .
i came back a changed man .
that very day , when i woke up , lying in a pool of my own blood , i saw the future of mankind laid out before me .
the vision did not last but the few details that remained were clear enough .
the man who had killed me had also been changed .
he had breathed the dust , inhaled the spores , his previous ills had vanished , and he had been imbued with a fresh new purpose , the same one i held to take over these caves and master their knowledge .
he would succeed in his efforts if i did not stop him .
sitting in the magical dust , i swore to devote my life to foil this monster 's attempts to claim the power of immortality .
this is how you came to be !
not even born yet , you became the key to all my plans .
in choosing to fight hitler , i had to abandon my own dreams .
not willing to give up , i attempted to return someone to these caves to finish what i never started .
i would not have succeeded without the help of others , like sauniere and the two lindons .
and so , i come to this point , where suddenly your need and mine coincide through the span of time .
i need to tell you how you got here and you need to know .
i have seen you coming to sauniere 's home in quest of heavy answers .
you have found my journal as a direct result of hitler killing me in the caves .
you are my legacy and too long have you lived in the dark , not knowing who you truly are .
this then , is how you came to be here the beginning albert lindenbrook was born in 1864 , the son of jewish immigrants recently arrived in france .
his parents were neither wealthy , nor sophisticated , plain , hard working folk who intended to provide the best life they could for their only son .
albert was a precocious child .
he had bright , piercing eyes , a shock of unruly , deep brown hair , and a perpetual mischievous smile .
he was of a stocky , robust build , not prone to sickness or weakness .
pain never stopped him when he was intent on doing what he set out to do .
fate was kind to the lindenbrooks and they managed to establish a small jewelry shop .
it never amounted to much but it paid their way consistently through the years .
young alfred was an eager pupil in the trade , particularly when it came to manufacturing individual pieces .
useless broken bits of gold would transform through the melting and casting process , becoming a work of art .
they provided him with a proper education , sending him to the best schools they could afford but he resisted their every attempt at fitting in , preferring to find his learning in books , which he devoured avidly , and in the lessons life could teach him .
he was always up to something but rarely , if ever , got caught .
he was simply too clever for that .
usually surrounded by a clique , he was always the leader .
school was his learning ground but not through lessons from the stuffy professors .
albert learned by being attentive to those around him and figuring out what they were doing and why they were doing it .
he was excellent at anticipating people 's reactions when confronted by various situations .
he was protective of the smaller children , of those who could not protect themselves from the local bullies .
bullies came in all shapes and forms but , in the end , they were all the same to albert .
bullies were his victims .
over time , various rumors ran around school , of bullies being mobbed and beaten , their stolen money stolen from them in turn .
complaints were lodged , a few pointing the finger directly at albert lindenbrook .
investigations were launched , impelled by influential parents .
nothing could be made to stick to the slippery albert .
his sly smile would infuriate them , as he danced around their accusations , his every alibi supported by dozens of cronies .
searches revealed nothing .
he became the hero of the meek and the bane of the greedy .
eventually , albert bored of this game and left school , followed by most of his clique .
he vanished for several , formative years , during which little was known of his true activities but much was suspected .
unexplained thefts , break ins where nothing was taken , crimes where everything was unclear but someone always lost something .
nothing could ever be linked to lindenbrook .
his wealth grew and his influence spread further than his money .
he became smoother , more refined , until finally , he could be found frequenting the elite and powerful , having successfully re invented himself into a young man of society , of perfect manner , impeccable style and dark connections .
the man who could do anything for you but always at a price .
from an early age , lindenbrook demonstrated an interest in jewels of every type .
born in his father 's jewelry shop , over the passing years , his interest blossomed into an obsession .
his knowledge and skill got him employed in the diamond industry as designer , then later , as importer and private manufacturer .
from this grew a strange occupation .
lindenbrook , began selling jewelry exclusively to the wealthy and powerful , ensconcing himself in their circle of influence .
he used his growing backroom influence carefully , holding his own counsel .
he was a capable , young man and his connections ran deep .
over time , it became known that you could go see him if you had a problem , any problem .
he would always listen and would rarely say a word .
more often than not , a few days later , the problem would resolve itself .
lindenbrook never required a single franc from those who came to him but , in the end , someone always lost something and it was always albert who gained it .
he exchanged favors more often than he did jewelry , eventually becoming the confidant everyone sought .
he remained in the shadows , forcing the elite to come to him , rather than the opposite .
for a few years , he settled in st irennee , a small french town , near carcassone .
in this small town began a story which is not finished yet .
it is where albert lindenbrook met the priest berenger sauniere .
sauniere had previously taken an apartment in st irennee , away from the prying eyes of his parish in rennes le chateau .
he could have roomed for free , down the road in the 'fauviere ' , but preferred the anonymity of his private apartment .
sauniere never did anything without a reason .
he was already discerning future events at that point and knew of the coming of lindenbrook to st irennee .
their meetings were sauniere 's only opportunity to prepare lindenbrook for his future tasks .
lindenbrook never revealed all the intricate details of his discussions with sauniere but , it was during his time in st irennee that he first learned of the existence of the abbey , of which sauniere was a leading member .
the abbey was an organization pre eminently involved in the search for a specific immortal man .
for centuries , they had devoted themselves to their search , which had expanded into everything dealing with immortality .
they knew of the dangers of immortality , having tracked and destroyed several would be immortals .
one and all had gone mad , laying a swath of destruction no matter their original intentions .
the power of immortality was a total corruptor of man .
the abbey had sworn to destroy both immortals and knowledge of immortality , saving the world over and over again in the doing .
the abbey had hidden in plain sight as an unobtrusive sub sect of the christian church .
they spread across the land as innocent priests and monks , seeking information everywhere .
eventually , they had focused on rennes le chateau .
berenger sauniere had been dispatched there , in 1885 .
he was thirty three and his visions were just beginning to occur .
he found the knights templar church and began his investigations .
soon after , he began his bizarre , vision impelled renovations .
sauniere revealed a deep obsession with opposites , building them into all his structures .
lindenbrook explained none of these were accidental , all originating from sauniere 's visions .
the abbey considered sauniere illuminated and gave him much support .
i studied these opposites , paul , and they are real enough .
sauniere 's church renovations began outside , where sauniere placed a cross , an altar and wall boundaries , all cleverly hidden but there just the same , a perfect mirror image of the church inside , down to the last centimeter .
he built an opposite in his villa , with a room in the windowless tower , accessed by an ascending staircase of twenty two steps .
on the other side of his villa , he placed a glass tower , leading to a light filled room after a descending staircase of twenty two steps .
following their initial meeting , sauniere introduced lindenbrook to the priest boudet .
boudet , another abbey member , was funneling funds to sauniere .
sauniere put much credence in boudet 's book 'la vrai langue celtique et le cromlech de rennes les bains ' .
this mysterious book refers to a ring of obelisks surrounding rennes les bains , a small town near rennes le chateau .
the only problem is that none of these natural stone formations are obelisks .
in fact , every obelisk boudet identifies is strictly the work of nature .
in the entire region , there was only one true obelisk and boudet 's book strangely omitted to mention it even once .
this bizarre inversion should have been enough to call attention to his book but his assertions went even further into the absurd .
he claimed english was the mother tongue of all languages .
despite that english had evolved relatively recently , boudet presented a strong case , by breaking english down into individual sounds and comparing these to identical sounds found in other languages .
after his death in 1914 , boudet 's tombstone was adorned with a book and a single inscription 'ixois ' .
these were five greek letters signifying jesus christ , son of our savior god .
lindenbrook figured out that their opposite arrangement read 310x1 , or 310 and 11 .
boudet 's cromleck book had three hundred and ten pages and on page eleven , one could find the phrase 'the key to the celtic tongue ' .
what was boudet trying to say ?
why was it so important ?
why did sauniere , his compatriot in conspiracy , hint about a treasure ?
sauniere could not be hinting about a physical treasure , if you thought about it .
why would he spend a fortune pointing the way to his own treasure , a treasure he spent his life hiding ?
sauniere never explained himself to anyone , leaving his mysterious structures behind to speak for him .
in 1914 , on his deathbed , boudet called sauniere to his side and finally revealed the true extent of his discoveries around rennes les bains .
sauniere never spoke to anyone of these , except perhaps on the occasion of his own death , to father riviere .
riviere 's reaction was not soon to be forgotten , refusing to give sauniere his final rites .
the revelations plagued riviere , who sickened and died within a year , never breathing a single word of sauniere 's final confession .
following boudet 's burial , sauniere busied himself with nocturnal investigations and destructions , such as the marring of marie delacroix 's tombstone , which we know held key information about the same 'treasure ' .
sauniere made further reference to this treasure , by commissioning a sculpture for his confessional , featuring a shepherd finding wealth after falling through a hole , while tending his flock of sheep .
sauniere also commissioned a three dimensional map of the terrain around rennes le chateau , lost after his death to be rediscovered in a flea market years later .
the landscape is curious as it has little similarity to rennes le chateau .
it was later discovered sauniere 's landscape was an exact opposite of the rennes le chateau terrain .
the map reveals several points of interest , in particular , the burial plot of joseph of aramathea , who had the care of mary magdalene .
this clue has a connection to real history .
mary magdalene is reputed to have landed on the shores of france , in the town of 'sainte maries de la mer ' in provence , near the mouth of the rhone .
accompanied by joseph , mary salome , mary jacobee and the saint virgin herself , pregnant with child , arrived by boat , after the crucifixion of her husband , jesus christ .
lazarus was also said to have been with them .
this is the first of many false trails laid down by sauniere .
there are so many , that it is impossible to see through the multiple deceptions .
symbolism piled on symbolism until all sense is gone the statue of st antoine of padoue , supported by four angels , indicating the way to the rosicrucians , the demon under the holy water bowl at the entrance named asmodeus , who , in fact , looks exactly like the demon 'eurynome ' .
false trail upon unending false trail .
let us not forget father gellis , another abbey monk in hiding , involved in sauniere 's games up to his neck .
he was assassinated on oct 31 , 1897 , killed by someone he knew and trusted .
the killer was never caught .
gold was found hidden all over his house , an unexplainable quantity , with much more going into investments on a yearly basis .
there are the multiple templar links , directing you to the ark of the covenant , stolen from the temple on the mount .
there are links to the elohim , immortals gods mentioned in the bible , to the cathars , holders of deep mystical knowledge , to the visigoths and the merovingians , bearded and long lived kings , descendants of jesus christ himself .
searching deeper , one finds links to nostradamus , who lived nearby , to leonardo da vinci , and reference after reference to the star of david and to the yin yang symbol , another opposite .
there is a recurring theme of chess games , sauniere 's own land being laid out as one , with both his opposite 'towers ' in his villa , being placed exactly where the two rooks would be placed in a real chess game .
finally , there is mount bucharach , the center of all sauniere 's cryptic messages .
the devil 's armchair .
asmodeus , who fits perfectly in it but is not who he seems to be .
a magnetic mountain , possibly hollow , filled with ancient tunnels , connected to the mediterranean sea through underground rivers and the reputed resting place of ancient immortals .
lindenbrook and i followed every trail to its end we exhausted all possibilities .
in the end , we revealed sauniere had left behind a map of sorts .
it was partly a physical map and partly a metaphorical one .
one could pick out the physical trail , follow the geographical path and be inevitably led to bucharach , time and again .
others found the same trail and laid it out for all to see , like jules verne , a contemporary , in his book , 'clovis dardendor ' and again in 'clovis dardendor face au drapeau ' .
he used the elements of sauniere 's mystical trail in his book 'journey to the center of the earth ' , revealing everything within a book of fiction .
the secret was well buried within the story so few understood it was even there .
i did as verne had , presenting the results of my investigations in code , hiding it in plain sight , built into every one of my stories .
what i started with the hollow needle , i continued with every subsequent novel , inserting name , time and place , over and over again .
i created storylines that were duplicates of key historical events .
i invented sound codes used as names , like father boudet did in his cromleck book .
the more i did it , the more i had to do it .
like sauniere , i knew others sought the treasure i held and , like sauniere , i had to create as many false trails as possible .
sauniere believed only one man was destined to decipher the clues properly .
unfortunately , another was out there , trying to find a way in .
i had , so far , locked hitler out and fought him off but he would never stop .
while hitler might know of my return from the dead , he would not know the manner in which this happened .
it was my one chance .
he did not know of the spores ' existence .
all he knew was something in the caves could lead him to renewed health and vigor .
this allowed lindenbrook and i to lead hitler on the wildest goose chase ever imagined , delaying his arrival to the caves for years .
how i became involved lindenbrook and i met by coincidence or , at least , that 's what we both thought originally .
both our families spent the summers in the town , meeting each other a natural consequence .
we got along , regardless of our different social circles .
over the years , our meetings became more frequent .
lindenbrook eventually regaled me with a few exploits not known to most .
my own attention had originally been riveted to etretat by a chance meeting with father cochet , prior to his death .
his plea of secrecy and his revelations about etretat ensured i took on his quest for the truth behind the town 's mysterious history .
cochet never revealed any connection between his lifelong interest and the abbey , although i am now convinced that such a connection existed .
i was being groomed , like lindenbrook by sauniere .
the hand of the abbey was in everything , manipulating people like chess pieces , moving us into carefully planned position , anticipating every move , every countermeasure .
we had been involved in the abbey 's grand master plan , conceived and refined by a prescient sauniere , assisted by his contemporaries , boudet , gellis , and cochet .
learning of my meeting with father cochet , lindenbrook revealed his knowledge of the abbey and of their centuries long agenda .
he drew correlations between his meetings with sauniere and mine with cochet .
i had met sauniere on occasion and remembered when he first mentioned albert lindenbrook 's name to me , comments which now seemed false and fabricated .
lindenbrook shortened his name to lindon during the first world war .
his exploits gave me the idea for a character i was developing .
the editor at the aje sais tout ' magazine had given me an opportunity , if i could come up with a counterpart to the english character sherlock holmes , created by arthur conan doyle .
i disliked the detective approach but loved holmes ' deductive ability .
many of lindon 's adventures featured curious locations , clever subterfuge and slightly illegal activities .
the mix was irresistible .
lindon 's knack at redefining justice using his own terms , rather than the court 's did not hurt either .
a gentleman criminal .
i appropriated the first initials of my friend 's name and albert lindon became arsene lupin !
raymond lindon , his son , became my contact for 'lupin ' .
this is the second grand secret which i was obliged to keep hidden from you .
your family is descended from albert lindon , the person behind lupin .
the deception was part of the plans lindon and i engaged in for more than thirty years , indoctrinating our families and those from the net .
this is the core of what this journal is about .
since i entered into those caves , my life has not been my own .
i have been taken over by a duty larger than me .
one i could neither refuse , nor blind myself to .
once hitler became involved , i could not turn back .
it took away a lifetime of searching for deeper answers buried within the caves .
i had one chance , a single chance , that i could manipulate the sequence of events created by the abbey .
my vanity , my pride in my own flesh and blood , pushed me to consider the unthinkable to place my progeny , my children 's children into the path of the abbey 's centuries long plans .
once imagined , i knew it could be done .
one of my descendants would regain ownership of the caves and be given a chance to learn what none other had learned before .
a vain thought , i admit it , but it is what drove me to all my excesses , none of which i regret .
i did not do this alone .
i was allied with lindon and our destinies were forged together .
we refined our plans beyond all other subterfuges .
it took unmitigated gall but finally , lindon and i were allowed to involve ourselves in the plan , convincing them to use our progeny for their experiments .
yes , albert and i both risked everything .
we took the chance it might fail , the spores might harm you , you might never make it for a thousand reasons .
we did it all , for a single chance , that we might place one of you , one of us , right at the center of all things .
i am as guilty of manipulating your life as the abbey was of manipulating mine .
hopefully , being in the position you are now , you will see the risks were worth it .
it has taken more than ninety years to place you there , paul sirenne , but place you there we did .
your entire upbringing , every single minute of your education , of the hunts , was conceived by the clever lindon , or by myself .
when the challenge was thrust upon you , you would not be found wanting .
we created two trails of progeny .
there were many reasons .
it would take so little to have our efforts go wrong .
child diseases , inadvertent accidents , no , it was too dangerous .
two lines were essential .
one would be obvious , mine , while the other , lindon 's , would be hidden .
it was always double meaning , false trails and hidden purpose .
sauniere 's vision was , at its core , a genetic revelation .
he had divined the true power of the spores lay in their genetic potential .
no person exposed firsthand to spores could avoid being destroyed by its insidious properties .
however , sauniere revealed anyone exposed to the spores would be genetically changed by his exposure , his genes altered by the spores .
when his descendants came into contact with them once more , their bodies would be receptive to the spore 's effects like no one else on earth .
sauniere 's vision was revelatory .
the spores were so strong several generations had to pass before a second exposure could be risked .
it would not work on my son , or his son .
it would take a full three generations before a secondary exposure would be successful .
the abbey had been seeking that knowledge for more than a thousand years .
the timing could not have been better , influencing the abbey into accepting our proposal .
the abbey felt a certain amount of responsibility towards me because they had allowed the monster hitler to attack me that first time .
they claimed it was part of their plan .
'it was a necessary opposite ' they said .
hitler provided a counterpoint to the powers in my hand , tempering my actions .
at the same time , my involvement provided the counterpoint to hitler 's headlong rush for world domination .
in the end , my presence stopped him and his stopped mine .
though i had a mind like no other when it came to developing scenarios , when compared against lindon 's bright intellect , my mind was a weak candle indeed .
it was he who suggested we devote ourselves to giving hitler as many trails as possible .
we would keep him busy , wasting his every moment chasing us , looking endlessly for knowledge .
it would forever elude him , his trails and their goals pure fiction .
i took up the battle earnestly , hiding codes in my books , leaving many trails for hitler to follow .
we developed a long term plan , sauniere at the center of it .
it was a circuitous route but anyone deciphering what i had hidden would inevitably be led to rennes le chateau and mount bucharach , following a trail laden with treasures , real and fictitious .
the path would take them through historical events , to mysterious paintings , to arcadia , to the long lived merovingians .
all interesting places indeed , except none of them were relevant to the caves of etretat .
in order to make hitler 's search motivating , it did aim somewhat in the right direction .
sauniere had also been thorough in muddying his trail .
hopefully it would be enough .
hitler would waste decades of time , using up resources and key men , chasing a trail of crumbs leading nowhere .
lindon made the ultimate sacrifice by sending his youngest son to live in canada , never to return .
the whole thing was masterfully misrepresented .
at first it was a vacation , there was a breakdown in communications , followed by a name change of the estranged son , to paul sirenne .
albert lindon 's son vanished from official records .
he was your grand father .
after a few years , albert sent a precious package to his vanished son .
one copy of a very special 'hollow needle ' book , the key to our plan .
i am sure you have long wondered about these books .
finding the fourth copy completes the first part of your task and you must now ready yourself for the second part .
you know what i refer to .
i will not make it plainer , in case unwelcome eyes are reading this .
the origin of the four books in 1914 , shortly after hearing boudet 's deathbed admissions , sauniere came to investigate the caves .
examining the small cave where i had died , he breathed in spore dust inadvertently .
it changed him .
he became what he feared , a nascent immortal .
sauniere had been brilliant before but , after exposure , he became a near genius .
he had many visions , brief windows into future events , glimpses which impelled him to seek counsel from the abbey .
sauniere 's spore induced visions showed him how to make their goal come true .
he foresaw future events as a chess game .
with the abbey 's support , he placed pawns all over the board , where he knew they had to be .
he refused further exposures to the dust , limiting his gifted brilliance to a period of two weeks .
everything was done during that brief period .
all plans were written down , pawns placed , permissions obtained , everything .
his mind kept speeding up , until it reached a crescendo after fourteen days .
the final night was one of true wonder and mystery .
sauniere barricaded himself into his room .
nothing could be seen inside .
a retinue of abbey monks arrived , bearing a medium sized lead box , covered with ancient symbols .
i saw it with my own eyes .
it was very heavy , taking more than six men to carry it .
the six were blind from birth , raised with the sole purpose of carrying the box should the abbey desire to move it .
it was the first time it had been moved since 1703 .
none other dared approach the lead box save the blind six , directed by verbal command .
the men carried the box to sauniere 's room .
it never came out .
the abbey left , leaving the box with father sauniere , the doors shut tight .
all night a storm raged inside that room , complete with high winds , lightning and thunder .
sauniere opened the door next morning , cradling the four books .
the spore 's effects was fading , their immense energy drained by the night 's miraculous events .
somehow sauniere had created those books , using whatever had been in that box .
sauniere claimed not to remember what he had done .
he was never the same man after that .
whatever he did that night took more than sauniere had to give .
he faded visibly , day by day .
if truth be told , i think he wanted to go .
it had been too much for him .
he never spoke of what he had seen or done , save to albert lindon .
he gave instructions for lindon 's son , raymond , and his other son , paul , in canada .
two of the four books went with the instructions , to remain in the lindon family until necessary .
the third copy went to me and the fourth remained with sauniere , to be buried with my second journal .
he had foreseen everything .
sauniere weakened , his mind a shadow of what it once was , until he died of a brain seizure in 1917 .
his death heralded the start of the abbeys ' final game .
thus was your story begun .
albert lindon and i still had a bit more up our sleeves .
the trails we had created for hitler would only keep him busy for so long .
we needed something clever for him to latch on to , once he realized he had been mislead .
the wily lindon knew hitler 's anger would focus on us as soon as he realized the extent of our subterfuge .
he still would not know the true nature of immortality .
we were n't about to make it easy for him .
it was time for another false trail , a lindon special .
he reasoned hitler would likely believe the worst behavior from his enemies .
lindon hatched a plot where he and i would disagree about sharing the 'secrets of immortality ' .
lindon would steal it from me , giving flesh and form to illusion .
i would give chase , hiding it as other activities , such as promoting my books .
i would show my disfavor when referring to my character , providing convincing innuendo about lindon .
when examined with extreme care , the trail would reveal lindon might have stolen the ark of the covenant from the good leblanc .
if someone went looking , they would find evidence of arguments , rumors of a hushed up fist fight .
a hospital visit covered up .
cars in the night , perhaps even a big truck .
others giving chase .
a skid mark on the side of the road , burnt rubber over there , a broken tree trunk .
step by step , a mad escape like no other could be painstakingly reconstructed .
lindon entrapped hitler in the most convincing of trails , so faint as to almost not be there .
a true work of art .
the only pity is i have never been able to write about it .
in the end , the trail would lead hitler to paris , to albert lindon 's vault , securely holding his most valuable paintings and , possibly , a large lead box .
of course , if hitler ever reached the vault , the box would be missing .
it had never been there .
it did not exist .
hitler would not know that and might continue searching for a while yet .
the longer he was kept busy looking for answers out there , the less time he would have to seek them in the caves .
of course , he will eventually arrive to the caves , seeking answers .
it is inevitable .
he will arrive angry and frustrated , old and tired .
it will be child 's play to lead him to the rigged throne with its crown of death , a fitting end to our story and to his life .
his death will begin a decades long vigil of silence and darkness for the caves .
they will be cleared of all nazi nonsense and readied for the next phase .
your return .
we have finally come to this point .
some key questions have been answered and the long hidden story of your origin has been revealed .
i can rest in peace now , knowing you will be at the helm , running a tight ship , bolstered by the strong winds of your past , of your heritage .
i am sure you have wondered why i did not partake of more spores to regain health , instead of waiting to die .
the answer is simple .
immortality was not for me .
i never sought it .
it sought me and i survived its challenge .
for me , the path of the normal human , the path of the caretaker and of the teacher .
for me , the path of the duty bound , proud to have done his utmost in his quest .
as for you , i can do no more than i have done .
i have reached across time and placed you in the path of greatness , paul sirenne .
i would love being there , by your side , to witness your shining moment of glory .
but alas , the gulf of time separates us .
we will never meet , never know each other , never share our final fates .
i have stood invisibly by your side , until now , guiding you , lighting the way .
now my candle runs low , the tallow weak and thin .
i have been burning it from both ends and i am truly tired .
my task is done and my body yearns to lie down in my soft bed .
raymond lindon will continue the vigil , keeping an eagle eye on our machinations .
i will finally be able to rest my weary bones .
from where i sit , this very moment , i see little victoire playing in the corner , snatching a few moments of happiness , of quietness and calm .
she deserves so much more than she will receive .
i know of the difficult times ahead for her , her father gone and me soon to follow .
on her little frame rests such heavy tasks already , even though she does not yet feel their weight .
she has just learned the little song i sang for her .
do you remember it , paul ?
your father taught it to you as well .
they were such deceptive words , fraught with the deepest of meanings the beginning and the end follow the circle , it bends .
the end and the beginning the answer in the connecting good bye paul sirenne , and good luck .
maurice leblanc paul sirenne chapter sixteen discussing the journal maurice leblanc froze in place and gradually faded to nothing as the lights returned to full strength in the auditorium , ending the illusion .
i removed my 3d glasses , noticing that briar 's glasses had already vanished .
coulter was the first to speak .
even though i did the setup , i never read a word of the journal .
i wanted to keep it a surprise .
those last words of his were real tear jerkers and i do n't mind admitting it .
leblanc thinking that we 'd never see him face to face and there he was plain as day saying it , '' coulter 's voice trailed off , surreptitiously wiping a tear from his cheek .
raymonde was nodding in empathy .
still , his words held more than emotions , '' interjected briar .
much more .
it is an impressive document , filling many gaps in the events which have led us , led you , paul , to this place . ''
man , i feel privileged just being here , '' o'flanahan added sarcastically .
but briar 's right , we got a lot for our dollar with this journal . ''
you know , leblanc 's mention of hitler looking for lindon 's vault in paris strikes a faint memory .
i seem to remember hitler ordered the destroying of paris in a fit of rage , '' added briar .
paris was never destroyed , '' objected raymonde .
only because some conscientious general refused to act on hitler 's orders .
i think hitler opened the vault , found it empty and , furious , decided to raze paris to the ground .
it would be just like him , '' clarified briar .
fat lot of good it did for leblanc to set his sting in paris .
the french did n't want their historic monuments destroyed and let the nazis traipse in within a week .
not much delay there . ''
still , he succeeded in his attempts , '' supported raymonde .
he did bring paul here sixty years after his death , right on schedule .
that ca n't be ignored . ''
no , of course , raymonde , you are correct .
it was just a bad joke , '' o'flanahan replied , properly rebuked .
i 'm glad to hear you finally admit it , o'flanahan , '' briar added .
standing up and going down a few steps , to the auditorium floor , he turned around , facing us .
leblanc has indeed accomplished a magnificent feat .
he has provided key information about the abbey .
we now understand much more about sauniere 's role in their organization .
their plans stem from his actions in 1914 .
this is when it all crystallized , when sauniere 's exposure to the spores prodded his brain to expand , much like yours has , paul . ''
that 's a good point .
i had n't understood that , '' added coulter .
i saw the connection immediately .
the powder seems to enhance whatever you started with .
if sauniere was already gifted , it is possible , even likely the powder turned him into a full blown psychic , '' briar replied o'flanahan scoffed out loud .
surely you 're not going to tell us that you believe in psychics , briar ? ''
i guess you do n't know everything about me then .
unexplained phenomena occur regularly .
i said unexplained , not aliens or ghosts , before you jump in again , o'flanahan .
i would not be much of a researcher if i refused to accept facts staring me in the face .
i do not propose however , to theorize pointlessly about the possible causes of unexplained phenomena .
i simply accept they undeniably occur . ''
what are you saying , mr briar ? ''
asked raymonde .
i have personally examined several cases of unexplained phenomena in my own profession .
for example , i have seen psychic archeology performed in front of me .
we had to excavate a buried church but our time was running out and so were our funds .
my partner convinced me to hire a dowser .
he swore by the man , having utilized his services before , and overrode my strenuous objections . ''
i can just imagine , '' o'flanahan said .
the man proceeded to quickly identify where we should work .
he did it without hesitation , marking the area precisely , telling us how deep we would have to dig .
it was finished in less than fifteen minutes .
all he used was a pendulum , a weight on a string .
my skepticism lasted until the moment we hit the foundations , exactly where he had described they would be .
another example comes to mind , one much more pertinent to us .
i met an archeologist who would go in trances while in areas where ancient battles had occurred .
he claimed to find himself transported back to the times of the battles and wrote many books describing his visions .
inevitably , he was taken to task by professionals in his field , insulted by a man presenting dreams as valid archeology .
yet time and time again , new research proved his descriptions of events , clothing , and weaponry , to be highly accurate .
one can not refute this evidence so easily .
so if maurice leblanc chooses to claim sauniere saw into the future , who am i to argue with him ? ''
i never thought i 'd see the day , '' o'flanahan replied .
well , bravo briar , and i agree with every word you 've said .
sauniere was the instigator of this mess and it 's high time we recognize it .
it was his church , his villa , his tower , his damn chessboards and his demon sitting on mount bucharach that started it all .
he , or one of his cronies , pushed and prodded lindon and leblanc , probably instigating the writing of the hollow needle .
sauniere made the four books , which had to have been a pretty mean trick .
it 's his influence we see stamped on the caves , at least for the last hundred years or so .
he figured out where the abbey had been going wrong all those years and created a plan to fix it in three generations flat . ''
wait a minute , o'flanahan , '' complained coulter .
there 's still tons we do n't know .
what about the ark of the covenant ?
and what about that immortal they 're chasing ?
what is the abbey really up to ? ''
do n't you think i know that ? ''
o'flanahan screamed back .
leblanc 's just wetted our appetites .
it 's eating me up .
here i was hoping his journal would explain it all , but nooo , we ca n't have that .
instead mr leblanc dangles a bunch more questions in front of our faces .
when is it ever going to end ?
it 's not fair . ''
raymonde and i burst out laughing leblanc did warn us about that .
my friends , our problem is leblanc thought we had found the fourth book .
he expected us to have it in our hands , along with his journal .
someone else is involved , someone other than the abbey or weissmuller , who has appropriated the fourth book .
we have not succeeded at our task .
so congratulations are not yet in order .
on the other hand , i am glad to understand how i got here . ''
quite true , my boy .
you are apparently a lindon , now , '' said briar .
thanks but i 'll keep the name sirenne for a while yet .
i 'm somewhat attached to it . ''
there 's something else no one 's mentioned , '' coulter said .
what 's that ? ''
i asked .
leblanc spoke of a hidden storyline , buried inside all his stories , a storyline echoed in jules vernes ' books , both based on sauniere 's secret message . ''
go on , '' i prodded , getting curious .
well , it 's sort of weird , if you think about it .
the story he seems to be talking about is your story , paul .
it 's not , i mean it ca n't be , right ?
they were writing about this stuff a hundred years ago .
yet , the elements hidden in their stories seem to be the same elements that have happened to you , paul . ''
o'flanahan 's brow was furrowed in thought .
you mean to imply that paul is living the story those guys were hinting at in their books ? ''
well , yes , i think that 's what i 'm trying to say .
look at what you 've been through the last while , paul .
it 's been trial after trial , endless challenges to surmount , but , like the hero in the stories , you keep rising up to the challenge , coming up with the right answers .
could their obsession with this story have pushed them to manipulate a real person to go through it ?
and , if they did , what 's it for in the end ? ''
none of us could answer his question .
i sat in the auditorium , surrounded by my closest friends , knowing this was the calm before the storm .
we had earned our reprieve , learned some answers , and seen leblanc one final time , wishing me good luck across the span of time .
i felt so close to him , it was as if time did not even exist .
greyman chronicles the watchers repeating destiny well there 's no doubt about it .
they 've landed in etretat .
the local teams have conclusively triangulated it .
we have two pictures of them landing , one of the helicopter leaving and three of them getting in a sub waiting for them on a dock , '' exclaimed robert from the back of the car .
pierre , gave up looking for etretat on the map and reached for the gps .
they finally knew where to go .
let me look it up on the internet , '' suggested robert .
now that we have a direction . ''
tell our friends to keep monitoring the signals from the minicam just in case , '' pierre added .
i 'm doing it now , '' robert shot from the back .
seems like etretat 's a tourist town .
hey , the author maurice leblanc wrote a book about it called , uh , 'the hollow needle ' .
it 's about treasure hidden in a big needle of rock .
hold on , i 'm getting something from ottawa .
it 's maria .
she 's confirmed fabian coulter bought some expensive glasses , with wireless minicams and microphones , before taking off to france . ''
i 've always wanted a pair of those , '' louis mentioned .
she says he bought two tickets .
one for himself and another for someone named liam o'flanahan . ''
that 's the fat guy , '' shouted pierre in excitement .
i 'm sure of it .
i know about him .
he 's a book publisher .
does conspiracies and things , i think . ''
robert continued reading the email from nadine good gosh , it keeps getting better .
a few days before he left , coulter received a big chunk of change in his bank account , given to him by someone called .
paul sirenne .
maria says sirenne 's an antique bookstore owner .
she sent a picture of him .
it 's the gorgeous girl 's boyfriend , no question about it .
that 's not all .
she says sirenne 's parents were murdered by a serial killer a few months back .
sirenne took off to france within a few days , landed in paris and rented a car .
he bought gas near etretat . ''
well , that settles it for me .
something 's going on in etretat . ''
i found the 'hollow needle ' book from leblanc on the guttenberg project online .
we can read it for free .
maybe we 'll get a clue from that . ''
good idea , robert , '' supported pierre from the front .
following the gps ' directions , louis was driving in earnest .
make sure to update ottawa about what we 've come up with so far , '' pierre mentioned to robert .
we would n't want to lose a single bit of data about this epic trip .
thank god for those batteries . ''
louis started laughing .
man , did you see that mechanic 's face . ''
robert guffawed .
yeah , he was looking at us like 'what 's going on man ? '
it was pretty funny . ''
the best moment was when he held up that roll of duct tape , '' pierre chuckled .
i knew we were saved right there when i saw that roll , '' agreed louis .
hey , you know villa leblanc ? ''
asked robert .
what about it ? ''
it 's a bed and breakfast and a museum dedicated to the hollow needle story .
it 's even got a show . ''
well , get us some rooms there if you can .
we can watch the show and save ourselves the trouble of reading the book , '' louis enthused and the other two agreed .
robert sent a request for reservations across the internet and was gratified to receive a confirmation within a few minutes .
we 're in ! ''
he exclaimed .
greyman chronicles the americans moment of truth bill omaha stared at the group of officials assembled around the conference table .
in a way , he had been preparing for this moment all his life .
the men facing him had been briefed , so he got to it without any further preamble .
as you know , we have successfully tracked the immortals to their lair in etretat , france .
we have confirmed we are dealing with immortals by using our specialized detection equipment in the church , where we were affected by them .
according to our theorists , the magnetic disruptions could only have been caused by immortals . ''
so there 's no possibility of a mistake then , mr omaha ? ''
none whatsoever .
this is the real deal .
we have confirmed the existence of at least one , possibly two , immortals in that group , based on the strength of the fields we observed .
this encounter has finally confirmed our theories about the possibility of immortals existing .
we recognized the old man , whom we thought to be a local guide , as father plantagenet , leader of the abbey . ''
not him again , that meddling old fool , '' commented an official .
he 's got to be watched .
no matter where he appears , trouble is never far behind .
we must take precautions . ''
sir , if i may , it was not precautions i was thinking of .
we know the abbey has long been associated with immortality .
they have earned a reputation for destroying immortals , not serving as guides for them .
gentlemen , let me assure you , the abbey working hand in hand with immortals can bring no good to anyone .
no matter which outcome we forecast , none have a positive ending for us .
we never expected this moment to come but , now that it is here , we must deal with the very real possibility that our days are at an end . ''
whose days , mr omaha ? ''
humans , sir , the entire human race .
i do not exaggerate .
you already know our planet is in ecological crisis .
unexplained earthquakes , storms of unbelievable violence , volcanoes , pandemic diseases , the list is endless .
the world 's economy is near the breaking point dealing with the unending disasters .
everyone is frantic , desperate .
if immortality gets loose upon the world at this key stage , then our way of life is at an end .
we do not possess the immortality formula but we are convinced one exists , which is what most other countries are searching for .
historically , we believe at least two version of the immortality formula have existed .
our best origin theory points to the egyptian priests of antiquity and involves a total re interpretation of their 'book of the dead ' .
instead of describing an evolution of the spirit when death has occurred , the book reviews a process of change once the immortality formula has been ingested .
its ingestion was not without danger .
immortality comes at a price and sanity seems to be the coin of the realm .
if followed precisely , the steps from the book of the dead reveal a path towards ultimate survival and understanding .
the immortality option was provided only to the chosen few , the pharaohs .
it was what led to the building of the pyramids , places where immortals could be contained safely , until they gained control of themselves .
if their efforts failed and madness ensued , they would never be released . ''
this is preposterous .
nothing like that has ever been found in hieroglyphics , '' objected an official who was hearing this version of events for the first time .
but of course it has , sir .
it 's all there in black and white .
there was no way to hide it .
however there was a way to misinterpret it .
all one had to do was change basic perceptions and those clear statements become religious mumbo jumbo .
it 's a simple trick .
it 's been done time and again throughout history .
do n't try to hide the facts .
that 's impossible .
just present the same facts from a different perspective .
if you do it consistently , everyone will end up believing your version . ''
i understand the principles .
i had not realized the extent to which this had been perpetrated , particularly in my own education , '' returned the official .
it 's understandable .
none of us know how many of these 'hoaxes ' have been perpetrated .
it 's probably better that way .
i do n't think any of us could handle knowing how much is false .
it 's best we retain certain illusions , otherwise we could n't even function .
however , it would be useful to mention another such hoax briefly , as it pertains directly to this case . ''
go on . ''
after world war 2 , in the early 1950 's , everyone knew something bizarre had happened to hitler .
nobody was sure exactly what .
at first , he had seemed like just another small country dictator , no different than a hundred before him .
overnight , his rhetoric changed .
he started talking about a thousand year reich , with himself at the reins , transforming himself into an immortal god . ''
i remember all that .
something hush hush going on . ''
you bet there was .
we were n't fools , not even back then .
he 'd been searching for something for decades , we all knew that .
he sent heinrich himmler on expedition after expedition , investigating ancient myths and forgotten relics .
his search 's purpose was revealed when he and his henchmen re wrote germanic history .
we had known he was dangerous enough before but when he began doing that , we knew his reign could lead to no good for any of us . ''
why ? ''
he understood the power of ideas .
he was creating a fiction , his 'master race ' concept and re writing history to make it real .
the people had no choice in accepting the fuhrer principle .
the children never knew any different .
they grew up believing the stuff .
these efforts kept placing hitler right at the center of power , as the absolute leader of his invented 'master race ' .
when he started talking about immortality in his speeches , stating he would remain alive for more than a thousand years , we became convinced he knew about the immortality formula . ''
good god .
it does n't bear thinking about .
an immortal hitler .
we would have been doomed . ''
exactly , you can understand our concern .
his searches had focused on rennes le chateau .
himmler 's team pored over sauniere 's church and home .
also , hitler was still aging .
he might know about the immortality formula but he did not yet have it . ''
so what happened ? ''
it all went away .
we still ca n't explain it .
oh , the reich was still there and apparently so was hitler but it was n't him , not anymore .
the voice recordings prove it .
after 1943 , hitler never appeared publicly or spoke again .
it was a double , some bodyguard , name of maximillian bauer .
anyway , we think the real hitler was killed at some point in 1943 .
without him driving the search for immortality , the whole thing went away . ''
how come i never heard about this either ?
our people kill him and we do n't even get to know about it ? ''
oh , it was n't us .
we still do n't know who killed him , where his body ended up .
we just knew he was gone .
it was n't our hoax , it was someone else 's , but we went along with it since it suited our purposes .
what would we have gained by revealing to the world that , after hitler was killed , it took us two years to stop the nazis ?
we would never have lived it down .
so we kept mum about it but we never forgot it and during the cold war , some of our analysts began worrying about rennes le chateau .
hitler 's immortality search had intensified after his visit there .
we knew the priest , sauniere , had figured something out .
he had clues all over his buildings .
after hitler was buried and gone , we wanted to put a stop to all those who might be tempted to follow in hitler 's footsteps .
we could n't call attention to what we were doing by bulldozing rennes le chateau flat to the ground , so we decided to pull the old misdirection trick again . ''
what did you do ? ''
we hired philip de cherizee .
he was a penniless artist , desperate for food and fame .
following our instructions , he associated himself with pierre plantard de saint clair , for credibility , and went to see gerard de sede , a popular sensationalistic author of the time .
philip de cherizee introduced our carefully planned misdirection to de sede , informing him he knew the secret which sauniere had hidden .
he provided gerard de sede with two documents , claiming they were from a vial found by sauniere .
the vial incident was real enough but whatever knowledge it contained had long been lost .
the two documents from de cherizee were clever forgeries , designed to latch on to one of sauniere 's trails .
gerard de sede bought the whole farce and wrote a book about it , 'l'or de rennes le chateau ' , making use of key facts , assembled by pierre plantard .
anyone seeking for the roots of rennes le chateau would inevitably come across de sede 's book .
they would be tricked into seeing the facts from our false perspective .
it became impossible to learn what sauniere had really been trying to say . ''
that 's incredible . ''
i know .
i still ca n't believe our predecessors were able to think that up .
at that time , the idea virus concepts were still in their infancy .
it was a brilliant coup .
but philippe de cherisey did n't stop there .
he wrote a false genealogy for plantard , titled 'secret documents ' and sneaked a copy into the bibliotheque nationale in paris , where it was found years later , backing up the forged documents given to gerard de sede . ''
did n't plantard come clean about his role ?
i seem to remember something about that . ''
yes , he did .
it was too late .
the false concept was already ingrained into accepted history .
too many people believed , and preferred , the false version and so , his true version was rejected .
he must have been dismayed to see his confession rejected and ridiculed .
even better , countless other theories have piled on top of the first one , making the whole thing a house of mirrors . ''
well , i 'm impressed .
i never thought these techniques could be so effective . ''
you have no idea , sir .
nonetheless , if i may return to the subject at hand , after much research , we learned the egyptian immortality formula did exist .
it was regularly made by priests during the first three dynasties .
we have discovered about its travels through history .
it is referred to in the ancient testament , inscribed on two stone tablets , each bearing five necessary steps to produce the powder .
both tablets were required to assemble the complete formula .
if only one tablet was used to create a powder , a working prototype could be made but with serious weaknesses .
the formula tablets were kept in hathor temple , on mount horeb , near the egyptian mono atomic gold foundry , where they manufactured the immortality powder .
moses knew this and made for the temple directly in his attempts to lead his people to freedom from egyptian slavery .
using the fallout from a distant volcanic eruption as cover , he invaded the temple , killed the priests , and stole the two formula tablets along with a large quantity of the powder .
he diluted the powder , using it to keep his people alive for forty years in the desert .
some coveted the powder for its powers , longing to become completely immortal .
moses , in a fit of anger , broke the formula tablets , rendering it impossible to replicate .
they built the ark of the covenant , where they placed the remaining powder and the tablets , swearing never to open it again . ''
an excellent history lesson , mr omaha .
how do these ancient stories fit in with the scientific approach ?
is there any science to support the formula 's existence ? ''
yes , of course there is .
we would n't be here otherwise .
what started off as nebulous myths from ancient history led some of our scientists to study immortality .
it was more than possible .
that fledgling research project , the study of mono atomic elements , eventually led us to far reaching conclusions . ''
such as ? ''
mono atomic powders are never pure .
they are always a mix of several elements .
the most common mixes are gold , iridium and rhodium , with small traces of others heavy metals .
each of these elements has different properties when introduced into the human body .
only one of these mixes can succeed in providing true immortality .
regretfully , we have been unable to replicate such a formula .
however , our research has not been entirely fruitless .
our studies have revealed much about our own physiognomy that was hitherto unknown .
mono atomic elements , iridium and rhodium in particular , seem to be an essential element for the working of our cerebrum .
iridium atoms are evenly distributed everywhere in our synaptic system . ''
what are you saying , mr omaha ? ''
the mono atomic iridium and rhodium soup in which our brains float allows us to think the way we do .
the dense iridium atoms lend both energy and enhanced connectivity to our synaptic system .
without their presence , it is likely we might have remained brutish cavemen . ''
that 's almost inconceivable . ''
we did n't always have iridium on the brain .
iridium leaves traces of its presence in the bone .
after a rigorous testing program , we identified that fossils skulls contained no iridium whatsoever , prior to sixty five million years ago .
it can be no coincidence that an iridium containing meteorite hit the yucatan area in mexico , during that period .
an iridium cloud covered the earth for years , impregnating every living creature .
some took to it like fish to water but others , like dinosaurs , did n't like it so much . ''
are you telling us a meteorite is responsible for our high intelligence ? ''
yes , i am .
unfortunately , that 's not the full story .
when our scientist studied the geological evidence left behind by the meteorite impact at the chicxulub crater , they realized a certain amount of mass was missing from the crater .
the impact signature implied a bigger crater than could be accounted for by the meteorite fragments .
it was hypothesized that a section of the meteorite was propelled into the stratosphere immediately following impact , much like a cannonball .
we could even calculate how far this 'cannonball ' would have gone .
the only thing we could n't figure out was which direction it might have taken . ''
omaha pointed at a screen behind him , showing a flattened map of the earth , with the chicxulub crater exactly at its center .
a large red circle appeared around it , intersecting with various land masses around the world .
as you can see , here is the distance our 'cannonball ' would have traveled before falling back to the earth .
when we derived this information , we had no idea how important it would be .
it was only in the past few days that it became meaningful . ''
the screen 's image zoomed in to a specific area of the large red circle .
that 's the shoreline around etretat , where you think those immortals are hiding out , '' exclaimed someone from the back of the room .
you 're saying the iridium cannonball fell on etretat ! ''
that 's right .
our immortal problems center around the likely landing point of an iridium meteorite , the same iridium linked to immortality .
this is the source , the root of all immortality legends .
etretat is the place and they are in control of it .
unthinkably , the abbey , who know more about immortality than anybody else , is in cahoots with them .
it takes no great leap of imagination to forecast where this is going .
we can not stand by and let this happen .
we have one chance and one chance only .
we need to be the ones to strike first and take control of the situation .
if there 's only one or two of them , the situation can possibly still be contained . ''
mr omaha , you are n't seriously suggesting we attack their stronghold on foreign soil .
we could start a war . ''
sir , we are in discussion with the french at this very moment .
they are willing to uhm , ignore a covert attack in a localized area of their shores .
they are as unhappy about this situation as we are but they can not accept sending a french team to attack their countrymen , immortals or not .
they recognize the danger to their shores if it becomes known the powder of immortality is hidden there .
you know how many countries would gladly begin a war if it was the prize .
think of our enemies with that power , or terrorists , or extremists .
no , we must strike first and strike hard . ''
what about their electromagnetic field weapon ?
what can you do about that ? ''
actually , a fair bit .
the effect can not be resisted without aid , but aid is available . ''
omaha opened the large box he had brought with him , pulling out a cumbersome looking helmet .
it 's a prototype .
the production helmets will be more compact .
gentlemen , this is a portable electromagnetic field generator .
if we wear this , the immortals ' field can not affect us .
we will be safe . ''
can you get them in production in time ? ''
this last question came from the senior official in the room .
yes , sir .
the team is working details out as we speak . ''
fine .
explain your plan in broad terms .
be succinct . ''
yes sir .
not only have we identified a series of caves under the southernmost etretat cliff , we have confirmed access to these caves is strictly underwater .
we will strike in the middle of night .
the caves will be dark so we will bring infrared glasses .
we have a compact stealth submarine at our disposal and have confirmed the specific point of entry .
advance scouts are seeking a secondary means of access .
we will be using nerve gas as well as standard weapons .
we feel certain we can deal with anything we might encounter .
our goal is to go in and eradicate all life in the caves .
once that is accomplished we will secure the premises and begin our investigations . ''
are n't you forgetting about the immortals ? ''
no sir .
historical accounts about immortals are clear .
they can not be killed quickly or easily but they can be immobilized .
we have special weapons for that purpose , such as the foam gun , which sprays sticky , rapidly hardening foam .
we also have a steel coil weapon which throws a dozen tangling coils of sharp metal .
we also have experimental electrical nets , which may disrupt their personal fields . ''
can you guarantee success ?
there can be no room for failure if we choose this route . ''
we have anticipated as much as we can anticipate , sir .
i must admit we have almost no local intelligence but my team is the best , each member proven in the field of battle .
we know what we have to do .
we have the resources and the technology to do it .
if we wait , the immortals will get away from us .
this is our only chance to contain them , to keep our way of life safe for the entire world .
we will not accept failure as an option . ''
silence fell in the room .
you may proceed , mr .
omaha . ''
weissmuller recollections , 1960 1962 hunting the abbey , part two i had no idea how to find st germain .
it might be easier after locating the abbey .
the members of that organization were interested in st germain and would know about him .
the abbey had remained invisible to the rest of the world .
now that i knew of its existence , i believed my usual methods would succeed in locating the group .
i had been overlong in my guilio arnak skin .
my experiments had been far and few between and my numbness had become intolerable .
it was time to experiment , to satisfy my long denied urges , to feel the blood of my quarry pumping down my throat .
i was eager to be traveling again , to see the countryside , perhaps a little bit of straight line walking to stretch the legs .
i would head towards france , keeping an eye open for what odd experiments might pass my way , while i sought a new historian .
it was time for another lesson .
no sooner had i started on my travels that i was delayed .
i had spied a convent in the distance , not quite in line with my chosen straight line walking direction .
according to the game rules , i was allowed one diversion without penalty .
i chose to exercise that option in this instance .
nuns .
in a convent .
i wrapped up my activities there after several days , feeling absolutely refreshed .
my vampyric urges quelled , my numbness less of an issue , i stacked the bodies like cordwood in the convent attic , hidden behind a false wall .
i eventually found my way to the city of saluzzo , near the uintas mountains , where i located a suitable historian .
i did not know what specific historical events i sought , so i pestered the historian to no end , filleting his feet all the while .
his answers were delectable and , eventually , something stood out amongst the mass of information he was providing .
i had reasoned that , in the past , the abbey 's presence might have been more noticeable .
the church had found out about their existence but never their central location .
the church back then was powerful , with vast resources and ears in every house .
yet , they had failed to locate the abbey .
i did n't believe it .
with a name like 'the abbey ' , i could assume the organization had a religious background .
they had been around since the eleventh century .
i could not see how the church had failed to locate them in all that time .
it made no sense .
they had to be lying .
for some reason , they had deliberately falsified their records .
the historian 's words sparked an idea .
since starting this search , i had pieced together much of the time line concerning the immortality powder .
the abbey was responsible for shipping it to north america , prior to 1450 and probably after 1307 .
the abbey had their roots in a knights templar sect and were probably from the very center of that organization .
what about before the knights templar ?
when the historian mentioned st bruno , full name bruno de cologne , i knew i was on to something .
born in cologne germany in 1030 , bruno became a student in rheims , france .
an ambitious man , he became archbishop at the youthful age of forty three .
his appointment was followed by a great controversy , hinting that archbishop bruno might have purchased his position from the pope .
he was my kind of man .
in 1080 , he pulled away from public life , shortly after meeting raoul le verd .
in 1084 , after two failed attempts , he was able to establish a monastic retreat in the mountains near grenoble , at 'la grande chartreuse ' .
in 1090 , all construction finished , he was called away by pope urban ii to 'assist ' him in dealing with the current crisis , over simony and lay investiture .
pope urban the second was none other than bruno 's former pupil , eudis de chatillon , who studied under bruno at rheims .
this one fact rendered the entire sequence of events suspect .
urban and bruno had a hidden agenda .
upheavals at la grande chartreuse , following his departure , supported my view .
his followers were fiercely loyal to him , continuing to study his teachings , after his death in 1101 .
known as carthusians , they were in the very same location today .
shortly after bruno 's arrival , pope urban the second ordered the first crusade .
jerusalem was seized by templar knights godfrey de bouillon , robert of flanders , robert of normandy and others , after a month long siege in july , 1099 .
before bruno 's death , the ark of the covenant and the powder it contained , along with a large cache of treasure , was removed from its ancient resting place beneath the remnants of solomon 's temple .
bruno , dispatched by pope urban , established a second monastery in calabria in 1091 , finishing its construction just in time to receive the spoils of the first crusade .
i decided to undertake a pilgrimage of my own to this ancient monastery .
it was inexplicably closed in 1903 by the french state .
after much pressure , the monks had been allowed to return in 1940 .
the premise of a monastery is a peaceful retreat , built on faith and reverence .
the calabrian monastery was nothing of the sort .
it was wrenched from the hands of greek monks , dispossessed and thrown out of the country , the monastery seized because of a sudden 'need ' by the papal court .
there were far better locations for a monastery in the same area , resulting in political and religious opposition against bruno .
ignoring the local tempest , he organized and oversaw its reconstruction himself , a change of approach for bruno .
la grande chartreuse , his previous monastery , had been constructed by another .
bruno kept his plans close to his vest and used only his brothers in faith to help in its construction .
when all was done , after many years , little looked different about the place .
whatever changes had been made were buried beneath the existing structure .
i pressured the historian mightily to give me further details about this calabrian monastery but i had plumbed his depths .
i dispatched him with alacrity , anxious to be on my way .
i had traveled many kilometers when i realized i had not drained the historian .
my excursion with the nuns had so completely sated me i had not even thought of drinking the man 's blood .
admittedly , the convent scene had gone further than it usually did , my pent up urges unable to be restrained .
the tension , after two years of occasional experiments , had become unbearable .
i was witnessing the beginning of a cycle within me .
my infatuation with vampyrism had become entrenched as my numbness increased .
it was pushing me to greater and greater heights of excitement , my mind seeking the vanished sensations it so desperately craved .
my mind was still bathed in the nun aftermath but i wondered how long it would last .
how long until i was forced to wreak havoc no matter what i desired ?
calabria was in southern italy , south of naples , located at the 'toe ' of the italian peninsula .
i was in northern italy , near the french border .
my straight line walking was put to the side , in exchange for speedier travel .
the ingestion of another cube of spores provided a furnace of energy .
i wasted no further time , picking up my pace until running flat out .
i jumped over simple obstructions , such as large boulders and streams but detoured around lakes , if they were too wide .
it took more time to run through water .
i was seen by only one person , whom i decapitated with a rapid blow as i ran past , not even stopping to admire the splatter fountain i had caused .
arriving in the right area , i stopped at a cottage to ascertain the proper direction to the monastery .
the diocese of squillace was nearby , calabria 's home .
perfect .
i took up residence at the cottage , after disposing of the bodies .
calabria was a long shot at best .
what were the chances the abbey still frequented the area , after one thousand years ?
i needed no sustenance , no warmth , did not even need to move , which made my investigation into the monastery far easier .
i was already a master in the art of camouflage and got quite close to the buildings without being noticed .
the first month seemed to be a waste of time .
a bunch of boring monks went about ridiculously simple and repetitive tasks on a daily basis .
absolutely nothing was going on .
deep in the middle of the star shaped enclave , a communal hall and cafeteria held two entrances , one on each side .
monks entered and exited from both sides throughout the day .
all wore the same robes and walked in the same stooped posture , rendering them indistinguishable from each other .
it was so confusing i almost gave up keeping track of them .
one day , early in the morning , during the usual hustle and bustle around the hall , the sun reflected against something .
a quick flash and it was gone .
the flash had come from low down , reflecting off someone 's shoes .
the problem was , none of these monks wore shoes .
sandals were the usual fare here .
why would a monk be wearing shiny shoes under a tattered robe ?
i began counting every person who went in and who came out .
it took me three days to confirm my suspicions .
some days more people came out than went in , other days less .
yet , at the end of the day , the hall was always empty .
i decided to sneak in and find out where the monks went .
getting into the hall turned out to be more difficult than imagined .
although the hall seemed empty at times , further observation revealed three alcoves where monks appeared to be staying in solitary cloisters for meditation but narrow cracks in their doors allowed perfect overviews of the hall .
these were guards , not monks .
getting in was impossible without raising an alarm and this i did not want to do .
abbey monks were , one and all , immortal killers .
it was their primary purpose as an organization .
i would not allow any action with this group to reveal my existence .
not until i could strike from a safe position .
until then , no effort would be spared to maintain my invisibility .
i had to second guess my every plan to invade their domain .
the obvious solution was to take the skin of one of them .
the decision was fraught with danger .
this group was highly secretive and had probably developed a significant number of protective measures over the centuries .
it would be only a question of time before i revealed myself through ignorance and that was unacceptable .
even if i solved the problem of protective measures , i did not know if i could impersonate their lifestyle for a long period of time .
it seemed so terribly tedious and i was so filled with energy , i feared it would drive me irrevocably mad .
although i could be totally still for days at a time , the thought of prayer after prayer , mumbling meaningless trifles , listening to others doing the same , would likely drive me to kill them all in an uncontrollable fit of irritation .
i understood the origins of sects and the basis of religion as a control system but the mumbo jumbo spouted by their officials drove me to unreasonable anger .
it was such a waste of time .
perhaps i could see myself at the head of such an organization but never as a mere acolyte .
most humans seemed willing , perhaps even eager to swallow religious tripe but i never had any taste for the haggis of faith .
so , no impersonating carthusian monks , unless it became absolutely necessary .
i had to find another way in .
luckily , i was not quite out of options .
for example , where did these spurious monks with shiny shoes come from ?
how did they arrive here and how did they leave ?
this was a remote location .
it was accessible by road , but few came here .
farm goods were delivered once daily , coming from the local village .
apart from that , there were no visitors .
the delivery truck was the only means of entry for anyone .
although four people delivered and four left , dressed exactly the same , they were often different people .
one day , i caught sight of the exchange , when monk robes were shed and villager clothing donned .
leaving my vigil over the monastery , i followed the delivery truck to town , easily keeping pace with it .
in town , the delivery truck went about its regular deliveries , the men bringing supplies to this home or that .
to my surprise , when the delivery truck returned to the shop , the men were once again different .
following them home , i confirmed they were area residents .
a second switch had occurred at the homes where boxes had been delivered .
only one man had carried boxes into each home , so at least four homes were implicated .
it took a few more days to identify the home in question .
the delivery truck left its dock with the real delivery men .
it delivered to a dozen homes in the early morning .
early afternoon , the truck drove up the mountain road to the monastery , the four men different , having already switched once .
the truck returned from the monastery , filled with different men yet again .
when the truck made its final delivery and went back to the warehouse , the four men from the early morning back in their truck .
the switch was occurring in the last house .
it was impossible to impersonate the drivers .
none of them ever made it to the monastery .
i was impressed .
the house was never left unattended , someone always remaining present .
i concluded the couple staying there were guards .
they went about their daily lives in completely normal fashion .
no extra people in their cars , no unexplained visitors .
yet every day , someone new would come out of those houses .
a city map revealed a restaurant as the closest building to the house .
it was time for a good meal .
i had n't eaten in years .
i arrived early , choosing a table in the back of the place .
i was wearing local clothing and a nondescript hat , looking like a thousand others .
lunch time traffic did not stop me from recognizing some customers as monk impersonators .
four were bodyguards .
the fifth was a smaller man , the important one .
the others hovered around him , their eyes darting left and right protectively .
they never noticed me .
had they questioned my presence , i would have answered using the exact dialect and accent of the region .
but why would they ?
i had fooled them all .
i ingested the food without taste and drank the wine without pulse , watching the scene play out .
four men stood up , leaving one behind .
they headed down the stairs to the lavatory and never came back .
the last bodyguard at the table paid the bill , left , and drove off without a backward glance .
i left the restaurant but did not go far .
i turned down a side alley across the street , talking advantage of the shadows to jump up to a balcony , accessing the fire escape .
silently climbing from balcony to balcony , i reached the roof .
i settled in for a long watch .
it lasted three days .
i saw two more special cars arrive , following the same routine , disgorging five people , with one leaving an hour later .
there was always a return trip .
every evening , a car arrived with one person and left with five , usually during lunchtime .
this complicated , orchestrated exchange , with assigned drivers and schedules , demonstrated a serious level of planning .
i reasoned the entire monastery had to be a front .
unfortunately , so far , the whole of it appeared devoted to religious use by the carthusian monks .
the communal hall , which doubled as cafeteria , was an open structure , with few places to hide .
logically , the communal hall had to be an access point to an underground compound .
the idea immediately appealed to me .
i decided on a plan to elicit further information .
those abbey monks came in groups of five but the driver always left alone .
i could stage a convincing accident and grab one of them .
i jumped to action , scaling down the restaurant fire escape and jumping to the ground from the first floor balcony .
i took a chance on the southernmost road into the city .
it alone came from the lower regions of calabria and was the likeliest road for the driver to use .
i ensconced myself between two rocks on a cliff getting a view of both the road and the city , higher in the mountains .
i recognized one of the cars around 10 30 in the morning , arriving just in time to collect his passengers at noon .
i saw him drive by at 12 30 , his four charges in tow .
when i saw the car drive by once more during the late afternoon , i reasoned it would return with its solitary driver , about two hours later .
the sun would be lowering in the sky and the angle of its rays would shine in the eyes .
perfect conditions for terrible accidents , particularly when going down such a steep road .
one could drive off the cliff .
i would have to time it just right .
i worried about the road conditions when the driver returned .
i did n't want to cause a multi car pileup , it was too involved .
then it was too late to worry about anything .
the car exited from the city and approached the cliff where i was crouching .
i looked around quickly , evaluating the road .
it was quiet .
perfect .
i felt excited , a rare thing nowadays .
i jumped down , hiding behind a large boulder and waited , running out to the middle of the road as the driver turned the bend .
he saw me standing there , blocking his way , and swerved around .
he might have succeeded if i had n't given his car a tremendous shove sideways when he sped by , sending it flying off the road , down the precipitous ravine .
i bounded after it , landing on the car 's front hood in one easy flip .
moving at hyper speed , i crashed my hands through the windshield and seized the driver , pulling him out with one mighty pull , as the car sailed through the air .
the ground approaching fast , i propelled myself off the hood , bearing my dazed prize in my hands .
i soared through the air , falling between a few small trees .
the car crashed to the ground behind us , exploding in flames when its gas tank ruptured .
i dropped the driver to the ground , on the moss between the trees .
this had to happen right now .
he was gathering his senses , shaking off the shock .
a second explosion from the car jarred him completely awake and his eyes focused on me .
he was covered in scratches from his scrape with the windshield and his shoulder seemed broken .
i squeezed the shoulder hard , eliciting a strong , satisfying scream from him .
i asked him question after question but he refused to speak .
i could hear the sirens , far off .
it would n't be long before they arrived .
i crushed his injured shoulder in one quick move and he nearly fainted with the pain .
he tried to hit me with his other hand .
i blocked him , breaking his wrist and repeated my questions .
he refused to speak .
in frustration , i ground the crushed bones together .
my time was up .
lifting the driver , i jumped back to the car .
he twisted in my arms , trying to stop me somehow , anyhow .
i threw him with all my force , exactly where we had first landed , in the moss between the trees .
he slammed into it head first , breaking his neck and eradicating all evidence of our short time spent together .
his spineless body bounced into the air , flopping loosely against a tree where it cracked in two like an egg .
i hurried away , stepping on rocks to leave no prints .
the police would assume he had flown out through the windshield when the car crashed .
a simple accident .
nothing to it .
unfortunately , i had not succeeded in my goals .
pressed for time , i had inflicted a serious amount of pain yet the driver had not uttered a single word , apart from a few involuntary moans .
i had total control over his body but failed to dominate his will .
it was my first time encountering such resistance i could not risk another 'accident ' .
it would attract too much attention .
i decided to return to the monastery and examine the communal hall once more , this time for evidence of buried structures .
i knew about such structures .
i had masterminded the construction of no less than three of them .
the caves of etretat had been my third , the other two considered practice .
one of them was never even used and remains undetected to this day .
caves had one crucial need ventilation .
deep installations needed powerful fans , requiring generators and a large supply of fresh air .
if the monastery had an underground installation , where were its vents ?
arriving near the carthusian monastery , i explored , going further into the mountains .
the vents could not be placed too high up the mountains because the warm air from the caves would react with the cold mountain air , creating a tell tale steam plume .
the vent locations should therefore be predictable .
not too close to be obvious and not too high .
i found them easily .
there were two of them , one intake , the other outflow .
judging by the volume of air moving through them , the installation was of significant size .
the intake vent was about one and a half meters in diameter .
there was a ladder inside , probably intended for inspection .
i used it for invasion .
it took little time to reach the bottom , about seventy five meters below ground .
i was able to exit above the main fan , through an access panel .
i found myself in a small room with dozens of air vents heading in various directions .
a normal man sliding through tight vents might make noises or get tired .
it was different with me .
i could move forward on my fingers and toes , travelling effortlessly forward without making a sound .
i chose a vent heading into the center of the complex .
i went through several bends and one tight narrowing , ending up near a screen in one room .
six men stood nearby , speaking in whispers , making it difficult to discern any word clearly .
their meeting finished and they walked out of the room .
when they passed by the air vent , i was able to make out something of interest .
so , lindon has done his part then ? ''
yes , exactly as agreed .
his new enterprise was in operation by 1955 , fitting perfectly into sauniere 's predictions and he has purchased the property in question on the exact date stipulated .
we can count on him and on his silence .
although an outsider , he believes in our cause . ''
good .
project sirenne is finally underway .
there is little more we can do now but wait . ''
luckily we are good at waiting . ''
they mentioned lindon .
i knew that name .
why was he mentioned here ?
what was project sirenne ?
i would have to find out .
paul sirenne chapter seventeen reversing the fans my glasses beeped , signaling an incoming call .
it was dr phillippe .
mr sirenne , i 've got news .
i think i 've figured out something about the spores .
they are full of iridium , sir , which might account for the odd fields created around your body , if my physics are right .
it 's early days yet but this is our most promising path . ''
his revelation helped me understand what i had to do .
dr phillippe , we need to meet in the filtration room beneath the fans .
i 'll see you there . ''
raymonde , knowing what i had decided , agreed with me internally .
thoughts were replacing words .
i kissed her good bye , our lips pressing so tightly they stayed stuck for a moment when we moved apart .
dr phillippe was waiting in front of the doorway panel in the fan room .
the complexity of the installation was impressive for something out of the 1940 's .
the nazis had spared no expense setting up the filtration area , automating it completely .
weissmuller had wanted no one in this chamber but himself .
i could well understand why .
once immortality was within his grasp , weissmuller dared not lose control of it .
dr phillippe opened the secret filtration chamber , showing me the incredibly fine screen designed to capture the most elusive of dusts .
so explain the implications of iridium in the spores , doctor . ''
the small rotund man looked at me earnestly .
sir , tell me what you know of iridium .
it will let me know where to start my explanation . ''
it is a rare metal , i believe , yellowish in color .
i also believe it is rather abundant in these caves , due to the meteorite buried deep within .
i think it is a bit like platinum .
that is the sum of my knowledge . ''
thank you , sir .
you are right in all you say .
iridium , platinum and gold are part of the same family of metals .
iridium is the densest metal in the world , weighing nearly twice as much as lead .
it has seventy seven protons in its nucleus , balanced by the same number of electrons , an extremely complex atom .
its density , caused by the numerous protons , radiates a strong positive charge , pulling the electrons into its center tightly .
the important thing is that we are not dealing with natural iridium .
what we have in the spores is mono atomic iridium . ''
mono atomic ?
what does that mean ? ''
like gold , platinum and rhodium , iridium is part of a strange class of metals with two completely different physical states .
the first state , metallic , is an assembly of atoms in a geometric crystalline latticework .
these atoms naturally attach to each other in this particular way , giving us the metallic appearance we recognize .
however , if this latticework is undone , if the grouping of atoms is broken , we are left with a mono atomic state .
single atoms without grouping , you see .
in this state , these metals present a completely different appearance , exhibiting new properties , looking and behaving more like ceramic than metal .
it becomes highly conductive , a superconductor really .
that is why i did not spot the iridium in the first place .
it is extremely hard to identify in its mono atomic state . ''
so the caves have iridium powder , doctor ? ''
they are chock full of it , sir .
it is not surprising the luminescent lichen in the caves has absorbed it and used it in its chemical processes .
so , now we know the spores contain mono atomic iridium .
your body is covered with it , in and out , creating an isolation layer between you and the world .
the thing to understand about iridium is that complex atoms like these behave in very curious ways .
they have little understood properties , different than other classes of metals .
they are also rarely found alone .
produced in the center of volcanoes , mono atomic iridium is always found mixed with mono atomic gold , rhodium , ruthenium , osmium , in a variety of ratios , depending on where it is located across the world .
mono atomic powder is generally called 'white powder gold ' for simplicity .
it has deep history , which most people are unaware of . ''
history ?
explain . ''
ancient people across the world knew of white powder gold and believed it had magical properties .
the egyptians , for example , had a foundry in hathor temple , on the side of mount horeb , designed to make white powder gold .
some believe white powder gold was the mythical food known as manna .
hathor temple itself has a depiction of manna in the form of a white powder .
of curious interest , those who ate manna were concerned for their health because they no longer had to defecate .
these words are drawn directly from biblical texts , sir , not an interpretation .
does this sound familiar to you ? ''
yes , like apple juice . ''
my point exactly , '' the doctor continued .
i have just undertaken my research but i think we are on the right track .
while we do not yet know how iridium is doing what it is doing , i believe , with a bit more time , i might piece it together . ''
you have already surpassed my expectations , doctor .
from what you suggest , i gather there may be a physical explanation for my changes . ''
yes , sir .
the iridium atoms have very strong electromagnetic fields .
i think the answer lies in that direction .
the layer of mono atomic iridium covering you is somehow insulating you from everything . ''
it 's also changing me , doctor . ''
that may be because of the increasing concentration of iridium in your brain tissues .
you see there is something else i find baffling .
iridium is already found naturally in our bodies , in our brains more specifically .
one must draw a conclusion that human brains somehow require mono atomic iridium and rhodium to function .
if you were to increase this concentration , such as what is occurring in you , it is possible your brain might work better or faster .
your whole body in fact could be improved by the presence of white gold powder .
you know they use it to cure cancer ?
it seems to have curative effects on a genetic level . ''
you 've convinced me , doctor .
now before we go , i wish to attend to one more point .
can the filtration system be reversed ? ''
what , you mean blow the spores back into the cave air ? ''
yes , exactly that . ''
well , yes , but ... '' i must speak to you in all confidence , doctor .
events are approaching fast , events which may mean pain , even death , to some of our friends .
others want what we have .
we simply can not allow them to have it .
the problem is we are , frankly , not ready for what is coming .
the people here are scientists , doctors , people with families .
there are no warriors here , myself included .
we need an edge .
the spores are our best and only chance .
i have no other option .
i need to know from you what the effect will be on the people in the caves if we expose them to the spores by reversing the fans ? ''
in what type of time frame , sir ? ''
doctor phillippe responded with a tremulous voice .
let 's start with twenty four hours . ''
not enough time , sir .
in that span , most people would simply feel a lessening of their ills , perhaps . ''
what about forty eight hours ? ''
no sir .
a two week minimum would be necessary for the spores to have a significant effect on the cave residents , judging by the low quantity of spores available in my latest sampling . ''
the way things were moving , i was sure trouble was quickly heading our way .
i would not be taken unaware , not again .
neither would i be beholden to the abbey .
this was our responsibility , ours to shoulder alone .
etretat , mrs leblanc , raymonde , the vallin brothers , the net members , my three good friends , the list went on of those who had dedicated themselves to this cause .
once again , there was only one solution .
dr phillippe , what if we dropped in all the spores we have in reserve back into the filtration system ? ''
the whole hundred kilos , sir ? ''
dr phillippe gulped but , seeing my nod , pulled out a calculator .
it would make a difference , a big difference .
just about enough .
i would think forty eight hours would be sufficient to coat everyone in the cave with a thin layer of spores .
now i would n't expect miracles out of it , even at that level , but it should boost their strength , their immune systems , their resistance to harm , etc . ''
do it . ''
i would have to get the powder .
it is in the safe , back in the lab , under guard as you specified .
do you want me to have it brought here ? ''
no ! .
i want this kept between us .
let 's go get it right now . ''
very well , sir , follow me . ''
greyman chronicles the mossad finding the link the two agents floated up the widening underwater shaft slowly .
no bubbles ascended from their wetsuits , equipped with the latest re breather technology .
finding this entrance had been relatively simple .
the occupants were completely unconcerned about being covert in their actions .
apart from a rudimentary security force , comprised of untrained locals , these people took no precautions whatsoever .
it fits into the scriptures . ''
yes . ''
they communicated on a wireless band of limited power to ensure no one could pick it up .
it meant they had to stay close to each other .
this was an exploratory mission for the moment , to get the lay of the land .
after reporting in , they had been instructed to find the location of the immortals and investigate covertly .
the husband and wife team of avi and ziva bakla had been chosen for this mission from a very short list .
while political and economical reality prohibited a strictly religious approach to life within mossad ranks , there were those who still believed in the inner truth of the ancient writings .
some scriptures contained coded information speaking of a coming armageddon .
signs were spelled out clearly , the location of the prophesied events identified as rennes le chateau .
avi and ziva were specialists in the study of these prophecies and of their worldly implications .
they were both light skinned enough to pass as locals from a distance and spoke french fluently without a trace of accent .
latching on to the american satellite signal had been laughably simple .
the agents had estimated the landing location nearly an hour before the immortals arrived and been en route to that destination within minutes .
ziva had busied herself on the laptop , calling up their files about etretat .
the link to maurice leblanc , the author of the arsene lupin novels , threw up red flags right away .
they had previously been led to leblanc , through the coded use of names , dates and places found throughout his novels .
avi had visited etretat once before .
he had felt something odd about the place , as if he were being constantly watched .
he had left before his vacation time was up .
these thoughts came back to him now , while the two ascended towards the surface .
their suits were not the usual black but rather of a low luster material which made them almost invisible in water .
is it getting lighter ? ''
yes , my husband , but i can not explain why .
at this depth , it should be dark still . ''
a possible reason could be powerful lights from above , but how could that be ?
where would the power be coming from ?
surely we would have noted a drain on the local electrical grid . ''
you are right .
perhaps a self contained power plant ? ''
when would they have brought that in ?
we have been observing the entire coast for years .
i still ca n't believe we missed connecting that 'tourist ' submarine of theirs to its actual use . ''
yes right under our nose , in plain view . ''
i can not explain the bizarreness of their actions .
look at their ridiculous security force .
the two leading it . ''
jacques and ives vallin . ''
they are totally untrained .
why are they in such a crucial position ?
it is as if we are dealing with rank amateurs .
but how could amateurs have such an installation ?
when did they build it ?
their leader , paul sirenne , is being advised by plantagenet .
we both know the leader of the abbey advises no one and keeps his own counsel .
if he is involved , we are dealing with something very important .
but sirenne is a bookstore owner , of all things , a canadian .
why is he being counseled by plantagenet ? ''
perhaps the answer lies with the woman , raymonde leblanc .
she is after all leblanc 's direct descendant .
if someone were in the know , it would have to be her . ''
perhaps .
our research has shown she too has recently returned to france . ''
we are missing something . ''
yes , nothing makes sense . ''
they ascended to three meters beneath the surface .
not only is the cave lit , they have apparently set their bulbs at maximum intensity . ''
perhaps to prevent an invasion ? ''
let 's go by that dock .
we can surface there and assess the situation . ''
the couple swam in a careful series of moves meant to hide their travel through water .
approaching the dock , they noticed the submarine assumed to be the argos was a totally different beast .
is that a swastika , my husband ? ''
yes .
the submarine design is feral .
like a wolf .
is its surface gold ? ''
i believe so .
such arrogant opulence .
are these people neo nazis ? ''
no , that i can not believe .
the scriptures would have to be completely wrong . ''
perhaps the nazis were here .
this whole installation could be theirs .
our amateurs could merely be interlopers in a lost nazi stronghold . ''
it is a scenario which would explain much .
look above .
there are no guards , although , there is nothing amateurish about those machine gun turrets above us .
they would control the entire cave if they were manned , '' avi added .
what should we do ? ''
what we came to do .
let 's climb on that sub , dry off our suits , put on our clothing , and head up that staircase .
the outfits we brought should allow us to blend in .
spoken french only , from now on . ''
the two had planned their arrival during the middle hours of the night .
i can now understand the sunglasses .
the brightness explains why everyone we saw wore them .
i am glad we brought our own pairs , even if it was for camouflage .
i already need to give my eyes a rest . ''
they climbed up the side of the german flagship and used the conning tower to hide their quick change , leaving the wetsuits on under their disguises .
running along the plank to the dock , they proceeded tensely up the long staircase contouring the walls of the immense cave .
the scale was impressive .
it 's so beautiful in here , my husband . ''
yes , my wife , it is , and so peaceful .
there is a deep quiet here . ''
both were thinking about the few words , decoded in the sacred scriptures , about the coming armageddon .
two words repeated over and over again .
tunnels and caves .
one prophecy mentioned 'the cave of caves ' .
others , less clear , described a 'river to the center of all things ' .
the prophecies made them think of this place .
they continued their climb , keeping a careful eye on the turrets above .
reaching the top of the staircase , they carefully peered above , noticing one man , sitting quietly at a desk , his back to the door .
he was asleep .
a single guard !
unbelievable .
avi and ziva silently made their way past him and walked down a long corridor .
the walls are giving off the light . ''
you are right , my wife . ''
and the air .
it tastes nearly .
alive .
do you feel it on the wind ? .
against your tongue ?
it gives me energy . ''
avi too , felt enlivened by the air , nearly giddy .
perhaps there is a surplus of oxygen in the caves .
we must be careful to keep control .
do n't let the giddiness take over . ''
reaching the tunnel 's end , they climbed a grand circular staircase with a lift in its center , encountering several people along the way .
most seemed to be talking to themselves .
several were carrying on animated discussion with thin air .
what are they all doing ? ''
i think those glasses are communication devices .
it is the only explanation which makes sense . ''
the scale of this place is hard to believe .
i am convinced it was built by the nazis .
the architecture is unmistakable . ''
in silence , they ascended to the top level , which , according to their gps , would position them about ten meters below the surface .
ziva felt pulled in a particular direction .
i think we should go down this corridor . ''
why , my wife ? ''
i 'm not sure . ''
what is it ? ''
i feel like i have been here before .
i can not explain it . ''
are you well ?
is it a deja vu ? ''
i am shaken , husband .
it is like remembering a dream i had forgotten .
there is a cave nearby .
a door beckons . ''
avi examined his wife .
he had never seen her calm and cool state shattered like this .
emotions ran rampant across her face .
her eyes locked on his , refusing to let go , her trembling voice gasping there is a door and behind the door ... oh , avi , i am so afraid . ''
of what ?
what is it ? ''
i can not explain it .
something waits for us , avi .
it waits for us behind the door .
it waits for us . ''
ziva burst into uncontrollable sobs .
she immediately reined herself in but the look in her eyes was unmistakeable .
she was shaken to her core .
something about these caves had woken something deep .
i 'm sorry , my husband .
i do not know what to do , '' avi felt ziva 's strong emotions as if they were his own .
let your fears go , my wife .
all is well .
nothing has changed .
we know our task .
we were meant to come here .
if your dreams are leading the way , then so be it .
let us find what is waiting for us . ''
ziva took a deep breath , seeming more composed .
your words are wise , as always , my husband .
i am by your side .
the way is down that corridor . ''
she walked as if in a dream , gliding over the floor , towards a wide , dented door near the end of a hallway .
this is the place .
i can not bring myself to open it .
i am sorry . ''
avi bent down , examining the locking mechanism near the cave door , quickly bypassing the simple security protocols .
the door slid open and they walked in , standing by the entrance , scanning the area .
the room was huge , filled with electronic equipment .
ziva spied something against the far wall .
she pointed , her hand shaking .
over there , avi , what is that ? ''
avi 's heart jumped .
it could n't be , not here .
they took tentative steps into the room , worried about being caught but needing to know .
what was on the table ?
they have three of the four books , ziva , '' he exclaimed , his heart hammering and his mind thrown into chaos .
these amateurs were the ones predicted in the scriptures ?
how could this be ?
we must leave , my wife .
we must leave now . ''
what about the books ? ''
do not touch them .
we must obtain advice from our leaders .
these books can not be here by coincidence .
it is a sign .
the prophecies are coming true and it will all happen here , in these caves .
we must return to our base and consult .
do not forget the americans and their rash policies of interference .
who knows what the french will do .
neither of them can be ignored . ''
his wife nodded , eager to be out of the room , away from the three books .
avi , walked out of the room , beckoning to her .
they were running out of time .
hearing faint voices from down the corridor , all hesitation vanished .
they ran out into the hall , moments before the approaching people turned the corner .
it was going to be close .
paul sirenne chapter eighteen encounter with the devil nearing the laboratory , my sensitive ears picked up a thud , followed by a faint groan , then another , less distinct , crunching noise .
something was up .
doctor , there may be danger in your lab .
contact security .
get them here on the double . ''
what about you , sir ? ''
do n't worry about me , doctor phillippe .
just stay well behind me and get to that powder as soon as you have a chance . ''
sweat broke out on his brow and he gulped hard as he readied himself .
i hurried to the door , stepping lightly , my body charged up .
hearing a loud crash , i opened the door rapidly , crushing the doorknob in my haste , scanning across the room in a millisecond .
the place was in shambles .
there was a huge hole in the wall , where i assumed the safe used to be .
near me , one of the guards lay on the ground , head bashed in , his body broken .
i stood on the balls of my feet , the energy coursing through my invulnerable body like a molten river .
across the room , i saw another broken body , looking as if it had been thrown there without a second glance .
the man 's head moved slightly and he uttered a groan .
he was alive .
doctor phillippe had stayed by the door but , seeing the state of the guard , bravely made his way along the wall to give him aid .
good man !
a negative head shake from the doctor told me it was too late .
i looked around for the safe .
it could easily have weighed three hundred kilos .
whoever ripped it out of the wall had to have the strength of ten men .
only one man fit the bill .
weissmuller .
a plaster trail on the floor led towards a far door .
i ripped it open , seeing the safe in the corner , thrown there like so much garbage .
the edge of the steel door was curled back but , thankfully , the door was still solidly shut .
we were in time .
weissmuller had not yet gained possession of the powder .
an odd presentiment warned me and i jumped forward , slamming in the far wall before i could stop myself .
my sudden move had avoided a powerful slash from weissmuller , finally out of the shadows .
he held a wicked looking knife , his face a generic disguise , the eyes mad .
we were finally face to face , the long awaited moment .
the monster who had killed my father , mutilated him , tortured him , was right here in front of me .
my rage boiled over and i exploded into action , grabbing the nearest thing , a desk , lifting it over my head and throwing it at him with all the energy i could muster .
the desk broke apart in mid flight under the stress , the pieces smashing hard against the surprised weissmuller , sending him crashing against a cement post .
he fell to the ground and i ran headlong for him , grabbing a metal chair in my rush , intent in impaling him .
the chair punched into his stomach , the back legs sinking deep into his body .
no matter how hard i pressed , a force kept pushing back .
weissmuller slashed with his curved knife , slicing my jeans clean through , my legs unharmed .
weissmuller began laughing .
it was a cold insane laugh , without rhythm or tempo .
i ca n't hurt you , you ca n't hurt me .
stalemate . ''
his voice was without human inflection .
help is coming .
we will restrain you .
you are done , weissmuller . ''
ha !
let them come .
i will kill them one and all . ''
you will do nothing .
i have you . ''
you have nothing ! ''
spat weissmuller .
in an incredible show of strength , he lifted me off the ground and propelled me backward .
i flew through the air momentarily , crashing against the safe with a resounding blow .
the impact should have broken my back and killed me but i felt nothing .
weissmuller wasted no time and ran across the laboratory , intent on reaching the corridor without delay .
he was foiled by the timely arrival of three burly guards , armed to the teeth .
i blocked the doorway behind him .
he was cornered .
weissmuller never stopped , charging headlong for the guards , who rushed to aim their guns .
they were unable to discharge a single shot .
he barreled into them , his knife slashing with horrible force .
a man put up his arm .
it was cut off at the shoulder , blood flying everywhere .
the second man , hit by a backhand blow , dropped like a brick , his jaw crushed .
still running at full tilt , weissmuller grabbed the third guard by the neck .
i heard a distinct 'crack ' when he snapped the man 's neck , tossing his body across the hall .
he kept running without a single backwards glance , disappearing down the corridor in seconds .
horrified by what i had witnessed , i would not let the monster get away .
screaming to dr phillippe to throw the powder into the fans , i took off after weissmuller , jumping over the dead bodyguards and rushing down the hall .
he was already at its end , heading for the lagoon cave below .
i ran like never run before .
i had to head him off .
weissmuller was moving at near super human speed but i was catching up to him .
i was hitting walls , chairs , but felt none of it , sending it all flying .
i would not be stopped .
he was jumping down the main circular staircase , taking twenty steps at a time in fantastic leaps .
i took a chance and leaped across the chasm in the middle of the staircase , barely missing the lift mechanism , aiming for weissmuller 's back .
i was in mid air , when o'flanahan 's flushed face appeared on my techno glasses , screaming at me we 're being invaded , sirenne .
those bastards are here already . ''
his face obstructed my view of weissmuller .
missing him , i crashed into the wall head first , breaking the concrete , the blow disorienting me for a brief moment .
weissmuller cackled and sped away , taking full advantage of my blunder .
meanwhile , o'flanahan kept ranting away , puffing hard all the while , sounding exhausted .
coulter saw them .
they were in his caves , probably trying to steal the three books , but i was there right on time to stop them .
we scared them and they ran away .
coulter 's giving chase and i 'm right behind him . ''
someone else was in the caves ?
already ?
we had only just returned ?
weissmuller 's presence i could understand .
his eye must have been solidly fixed on our powder reserve .
he had been out of the caves for so long , his supply of powder had to be running low .
who else could be here ?
the ones who shot the remote camera at us ?
those 'tourists ' from the church ?
i took up the chase again but i knew it was hopeless .
by the time i burst out onto the lagoon cave upper landing , weissmuller was splashing in the water below from a death defying dive , vanishing instantly into its depths .
two other figures were running rapidly down the staircase , with coulter , o'flanahan and several bodyguards close behind them .
amazingly , o'flanahan had nearly caught up to coulter but he seemed at the last of his strength .
his red face told the story .
he was all in .
suddenly , o'flanahan missed a step and fell forward , rolling out of control .
his sprawling , sliding body crashed into coulter 's legs from behind .
coulter went down like a bowling pin , screaming in frustration .
two bodyguards fell over the tangle of bodies , the others barely avoiding the flailing arms and legs .
it gave the spies time to jump from the dock to the nazi submarine , grab some type of scuba gear and dive into the deep waters of the lagoon .
two of the bodyguards did not hesitate and dove right in .
i was running down at full speed but , by the time i got there , the two intruders were gone beneath the waves , the bodyguards searching in vain .
weissmuller never resurfaced .
say , where 's briar in all this ? ''
asked o'flanahan , a worried look on his face .
we tried raising him on the techno glasses but neither he nor his bodyguards would link up .
considering what had just happened , this was cause for concern .
briar 's caves were near the lab .
weissmuller might well have gone that way .
raymonde had arrived at the lagoon upper landing , the two vallin brothers and several abbey bodyguards in tow , informing us she had not seen briar either .
a few bodyguards remained at the dock and the rest of us ran back up the long staircase .
i caught up to raymonde , leaving the others behind in my haste .
we hurried back the way we had come , rushing to briar 's caves .
it started in the hallway , near his caves .
first , a blood spatter on the wall , then another .
then , it was all over , huge gouts of blood staining the floor , in jets and streams , covering the walls , the ceiling , everywhere .
by the cave door , three men lay motionless on the ground .
my heart jumped when i saw briar under his bodyguards .
they had protected him to the last .
we ran to the bodies , seeing in shock that the two bodyguards were already dead , with throats ripped open .
what about briar ?
i slid the bodies off him carefully , not knowing what i would do if i had arrived too late .
in relief , i saw briar 's chest rising and falling slowly .
i was about check for wounds or injuries , when his eyes opened , focusing on me .
sirenne .
thank god it 's you .
it 's weissmuller .
he 's here . ''
do n't worry , my friend .
weissmuller is long gone by now .
but you ?
are you all right ? ''
the others arrived just in time to hear briar 's reply yes , i think so . ''
he croaked , lifting up his hands and seeing the blood soaking his clothes .
we were returning to my caves when a noise alerted us .
we turned and saw a man running down the hall quite rapidly .
there was something odd about his face , as if it were a mask .
my bodyguards called out to him .
he never answered .
the man , it could only be weissmuller in my opinion , made for me , as if he wanted me dead in particular .
i thought i was finished but my bodyguards ... '' briar paused , overwhelmed by strong emotion as he saw them lying dead beside him .
my bodyguards jumped between us , taking the brunt of his attack .
he ripped their throats out and threw them both at me .
i hit the wall .
after that i knew no more , until i woke with you looking down at me . ''
lucky man , '' o'flanahan said with a choked up voice .
weissmuller does n't make many mistakes but this is one time where i 'm darn glad he did . ''
well said , o'flanahan , '' agreed coulter .
well said . ''
let 's get a doctor down here to check you out , '' raymonde suggested , her concern evident .
i appreciate that , miss raymonde .
i 'm not even sure it will be necessary .
i do not think i have any broken bones , just a few bruises from being knocked about .
my head is what hurts the most .
very lucky , considering what might have happened .
he must have been in a hurry . ''
yes , he was trying to steal our powder reserve , '' i replied , helping him sit up and getting covered with blood in the doing .
raymonde contacted the medical and maintenance crews to begin the gruesome task of cleaning up this bloody massacre .
seven good men had been killed in the last hour by that monster .
men under my protection .
once again , weissmuller was several steps ahead of us .
it was pure chance we were able to foil his attempts . ''
why do you think he chose to strike now ? ''
wondered coulter .
it is obvious in hindsight .
since we have entered these caves , there has always been someone in the power room , blocking access to that fan room , due to the required repairs and upgrades .
weissmuller could n't get to his special caves and his precious powder .
prior to arriving here , these caves had been dormant for sixty years .
spore production has only recently returned to normal , particularly since we repaired the third fan .
weissmuller was probably depending on his original supply of spores , collected in the 1940 's .
he had to be close to running out .
when dr phillippe found that powder stash and locked it in the lab , it was what weissmuller had been waiting for .
his one chance to get at the powder and retain his waning hold on immortality , '' i explained .
i can not get over how brutal the man is , '' exclaimed raymonde .
he killed those people without a moment 's hesitation . ''
lives mean nothing to a monster like him , '' rallied o'flanahan .
this is what we get for placing ourselves in the middle of real conspiracies , '' he continued , shaking his head .
it is nearly too much , '' coulter said quietly .
a somber mood fell upon us .
what had our actions wrought ?
it is important to know that it is not us who have killed these men .
there is a monster among us .
he is the one responsible .
it is easy to point at ourselves and say we failed .
it takes far more strength to stand up and say 'no !
i will not stop my efforts , our efforts , to find the answers and to stop this monster ' .
it was no mistake to begin the quest and i intend to see it through until the very end .
this i promise to you all because i this is a quest unlike any other man has faced .
we are all involved , each committed to this .
there is no going back .
if any of you , my friends , my partner , you , the men guarding us , have any doubts about this , dispel them here and now .
the monstrous acts by weissmuller will not stop me , will not stop us .
instead they will serve to strengthen our resolve to fight to the finish , to go the distance , to choose our side and stand firm . ''
my voice had grown in strength as i expressed the feelings burgeoning in me since the beginning of this adventure .
if i was meant to lead , then i had to do it .
destiny had picked me for the job , or at least leblanc had .
it did n't matter that i felt inadequate , it did n't matter that i did n't know how to lead them .
i simply had to accept this was the choice facing me and , if i was going to accept it , i had to be one hundred percent committed .
it was time to take a stand .
i entered into the fan filtration chamber , finding doctor phillippe in the process of dumping the spore reserve into a filtration access port .
this should do it , mr sirenne .
we are all going to feel the effects of this soon enough .
are you going to tell them ? ''
no , not right now .
this is to remain strictly between us .
i can not burden our friends with this knowledge .
it can do nothing for them .
the spores will help them by being there and that is enough .
in the meantime they will remain vigilant , not aware of the edge they have been given . ''
that is good psychology , sir . ''
there is another purpose , a more covert one .
we know weissmuller wants the spores .
he made an attempt to seize them .
so i propose to set a trap for him . ''
would n't i need the spores for that ? ''
no , something which looks similar will suffice .
get the safe repaired and hide the fake spores in there .
hopefully weissmuller will be fooled into thinking we still have what he wants .
he will waste his time for once instead of ours . ''
that 's brilliant , sir .
very well , i will attend to it , and mum 's the word . ''
thank you , dr phillippe .
you are a good man .
i knew i could count on you . ''
paul sirenne chapter nineteen getting ready i no longer slept at all .
i had too much energy for that .
i still had to rest , strangely enough .
we had been going nonstop for several days and my mind was overloaded .
i lay down next to raymonde and closed my eyes , trying to keep my thoughts at a minimum .
she lay next to me , trying to do the same .
after a while , i entered a somnolent state , where my thoughts roamed freely .
i felt raymonde 's awareness , always by my side , and we traveled the mental waves of thought together .
i saw parts of my day .
weissmuller , my battle with him , the dead men all around , the spores , dr phillipe , plantagenet , the abbey , the net , all rolling around in my head , the whole overseen by the three books .
so many things were going on , each calling for attention .
it all tied together , telling me something without ever spelling it into words .
it circled around the mysterious sauniere , his bizarre church , and its connection with leblanc , calling attention to the hole under the tower 's floor , where the fourth book should have been .
someone had taken it .
it was n't weissmuller , because he was also looking for the book .
it was why he had involved himself in our affairs in the first place .
he wanted answers just like me .
and the answer to what , anyway ?
what was driving me , what was pushing me ?
what did i need to know so badly ?
was it worth all this danger , this turmoil ?
i had been playing a game all along without ever realizing it .
a treasure game .
others were playing it , each with their own agenda , most trying to manipulate me .
it always came back to me .
weissmuller , plantagenet , leblanc , all of them playing the game .
plantagenet 's actions bothered me the most .
that white limousine .
it caused us to be noticed .
the move had to be intentional on his part .
leblanc said the abbey had allowed hitler to enter the caves , knowing what he would do , claiming it to be a necessary opposite .
plantagenet 's actions were not those of a man helping me .
he was using me !
the question was did i want to continue being used by him ?
i gradually slid into a dream state while weighing my options .
like my other dreams , i found myself rising above my body and moving up through the chalk cliffs .
floating above them , i looked down , feeling raymonde by my side , though i could not see her .
we were floating around the cliff , around etretat 's needle .
i perceived another needle , inverted , deep within the cliff .
the meteorite shard .
two needles , one pointing up , the other pointing down .
opposites .
both stylized triangles .
floating into the right perspective , the needles superimposed on top of each other , resembling a six pointed star , like the star of david .
i floated away and the image was gone .
raymonde was still by my side , as always .
we floated over the beach and the town , watching everyone moving about .
the monks were awake , scrutinizing every street .
two israeli agents lay in bed together , sleeping .
the town was safe this night .
i opened my eyes , turning to look at raymonde .
her eyes were as open as mine .
she had experienced everything .
it had been no dream .
early next morning , briar came in , wincing a bit , his new bodyguards taking a post by the door .
i had asked all my friends to meet at the eleventh hour .
raymonde sat by my side , our thoughts intertwined more than ever .
i hardly needed to speak to her anymore , our thoughts connecting on a deeper level .
her radar sense kept increasing in strength .
intruders would have a hard time entering unannounced .
i sat down .
my good friends had followed through thick and thin , eager to accompany me to the end of our adventures .
i could see it in their eyes , in their every move .
briar himself , after nearly being killed , was here , unflinchingly by my side .
i called you together to discuss the things that may be facing us within the next few days .
i think you all know our expedition to rennes le chateau has attracted more attention than intended . ''
it was that limousine , the one plantagenet got for us , '' stated o'flanahan unequivocally .
it was so blasted obvious . ''
yes , '' i replied .
there were four separate groups watching that church , waiting for something , waiting for us .
once they latched on , they were n't going to let go . ''
plantagenet had to know that .
the man 's no fool , '' continued o'flanahan .
we have dealt with plantagenet .
during the night , all abbey personnel were escorted back to the beach .
the last sub left ten minutes ago .
plantagenet was n't too happy .
his guards will remain in etretat , acting as watchdogs , to warn of upcoming danger .
coulter will give us a bit more information about the two spies who came in to our caves . ''
thanks , paul .
since our recent debacles with weissmuller , i have been installing cameras in more of the connecting tunnels .
due to the size of the cave complex , the task is not yet finished , nor is the system entirely active .
luckily , last night , it was sufficiently active to catch several shots of our spies in action .
i identified them as the two israelis from the church at rennes le chateau . ''
christ .
how did they get here so fast ? ''
asked o'flanahan .
it 's hard to say .
i assume they were tracking us long before we got back .
maybe they extrapolated our arrival location and beat us here .
no matter what , it was them .
what they did once they arrived was even more interesting .
they took their time but they were going in a single direction .
towards my cave .
the woman was leading them , as if she knew where my caves were located . ''
that 's impossible , coulter , '' exclaimed briar .
no one knows of these caves and certainly not what use we have put them to . ''
i agree , briar .
i am only describing what i see on the video .
it does n't lie .
she led the other israeli directly to my caves .
they went in , looked around , and then walked directly towards the three books . ''
you mean to say you did n't lock them up in a safe ? ''
o'flanahan exploded .
come on , you ca n't be serious . ''
give me a break , o'flanahan .
we left so quickly before , i did n't even think of it .
they were deep inside the complex , sealed inside my caves .
anyway , it does n't matter .
they did n't take the books .
they did n't even touch them .
but they knew they were special .
you can see them trembling in the video .
they saw the books , then turned and left right away .
we arrived down the hall a few minutes later , catching them in the act . ''
fat lot of good it did us , '' o'flanahan grumbled .
what ?
how dare you say that ?
it was your fault we lost them .
i nearly had them .
you were the one who rolled into me .
for once in my life , i almost caught someone and you messed it up . ''
you should n't be so quick to judge mr o'flanahan , fabian , '' interposed raymonde .
he may well have saved your life .
these were n't amateurs invading our caves .
had you caught them , there 's a good chance you might have ended up holding the tail of the tiger . ''
the thought calmed coulter down .
you 're right , of course .
i 'm no fighter , i 'm just a hacker . ''
there is something i must mention , '' interrupted briar .
i think these two were just an advance scouting party .
it is quite likely they were obtaining intelligence about our fortress before invading it .
i greatly fear we are under serious risk of an imminent attack .
it is entirely possible they now know about immortality itself .
it is but a matter of time before they come back to seize it for themselves .
it might have been a mistake to remove those abbey guards . ''
i think not .
i am convinced i did the right thing . ''
me too , '' agreed o'flanahan .
i never liked those monks . ''
it is not just that .
getting rid of the monks was necessary .
this situation is for us to deal with and us alone .
it is our challenge .
however , do not worry i made this decision blindly .
i have ordered dr phillippe to reverse the fans and blow the immortality spores back into the caves . ''
my friends erupted in a clamor .
briar looked enraged .
you have put us all at risk , paul .
you had no right , '' he screamed .
please , jonathan , calm down . ''
i will not .
this should not have been done . ''
listen .
the spores will not make you immortal .
dr phillippe has begun understanding the cause of the immortality effect .
in fact , immortality is a bit of a misnomer .
the spores cover our bodies , improve our health , make us stronger , faster , sharper .
with sufficient intake , we can erase the ravages of time on our bodies but , if we stop taking it , the effect fades away and we return to normal . ''
what are you trying to say ?
that it is not dangerous ? ''
i 'm saying , in short bursts , it does no harm .
in fact , i am convinced it 's our ace in the hole .
dr phillippe assures me there are now enough spores in the air to protect all of us from most injuries and health risks .
if attacked , our people will have acquired a temporary protection .
i do n't know if i will keep the fans reversed permanently but , for now , it is the only way i have to ensure our safety . ''
o'flanahan stood up and went to an air vent , making a show of taking big gulps of air .
what the heck are you doing now ? ''
asked coulter .
hey , if spores are in the air , i 'm going to make sure i get my fair share .
i 've been dreaming about being immortal since just about forever , '' he exclaimed , a big smile on his face .
briar 's face was still clouded but he slowly nodded his head .
very well .
i simply wish i had been consulted in this . ''
i 'd like coulter to finish setting up his camera network in the caves and get them fully active .
net members should be called in to help finish the job .
i want to know the moment we 're under attack .
no more spies sneaking in .
i want the armory to be opened and weapons passed out to everyone , with orders to carry them at all times .
start manning the lagoon turrets .
the fortress should be placed at high alert .
regardless of the spores , this fortress is nearly impregnable .
it 's time to man it properly .
let 's get to it . ''
what about weissmuller in all this ?
are we just going to forget about him ? ''
o'flanahan asked , as we stood up .
that was my final reason for using the spores .
in the last few hours , weissmuller has killed seven net members .
he is already immortal , so breathing more spores will do little for him .
on the other hand , it might protect any further victim from his murderous excesses . ''
that 's true , paul , '' agreed coulter .
it makes sense .
you did n't really have any choice .
you had to release the spores . ''
it was the only option . ''
my friends left down the hall and i headed with raymonde back to our caves .
greyman chronicles the watchers destiny takes a hand the three watchers had settled in at the villa leblanc , signed in by mrs leblanc .
the group had been in time to watch the museum 's last inter active hollow needle presentation of the day .
they had recently arrived at the beach , where they were expecting to meet their french counterparts in the underground movement .
it was a windy day , a bit cool , so the three young men huddled at a small table in a bistro overlooking the beach .
three pretty women approached .
the french watchers .
hello there , '' pierre said nervously .
the women sat down after a brief greeting .
he was never comfortable in the presence of beautiful women and these three defined the word .
pierre could hardly take his eyes of the brunette .
remembering his manners , he introduced everybody .
the brunette did the honors for her and her friends .
i am denise , this is monique and that is michelle .
we were nearby , on vacation , when we received the communiqu from headquarters .
we could n't refuse such a call .
is it really as important as they said ? ''
pierre nodded .
he explained what had led them here , omitting any mention of the battery incident .
the three women listened with rapt attention .
unfortunately , we are not from this particular area of france .
the watchers do n't have a chapter in etretat , so we do n't have any local contacts .
we are waiting to hear from headquarters in case they find someone . ''
what 's that sub over there ? ''
they peered out the window , where louis was pointing .
an orange submarine had just surfaced , letting out a large contingent of heavyset men , all wearing dark robes .
they look like a football team for the church , '' pierre said acerbically .
denise laughed lightly .
he smiled , unable to stop looking at her .
flattered , she continued smiling shyly .
yes , very odd , '' agreed robert .
they look like mercenaries , not monks . ''
where did they come from ? ''
questioned michelle .
i do n't know .
i ca n't believe all those 'monks ' would decide to go on an underwater sightseeing tour .
they must be related to plantagenet , '' replied robert .
the monks reached the beach and stood together briefly .
several of them were holding their fingers to their ear , or talking into their curled hand .
they 're using two way radios . ''
one of the monks motioned to the rest of the group .
they followed him to the edge of the road near the beach .
looks like they got their orders . ''
yeah , stand and wait . ''
denise laughed again but her face grew serious when they saw a limousine stop near the monks .
robert had wisely brought his camera and started filming , zooming in when the rear door of the limousine opened , revealing its occupant .
it 's father plantagenet .
he does n't look happy . ''
several cars arrived behind the limousine , disgorging more monks .
after some talking and arm waving , the group separated , disseminating into all areas of etretat .
the abbey is taking up watch positions , i think , '' suggested monique .
you were right , my canadian friends , something is definitely going on here .
we should alert headquarters . ''
pierre looked at denise , sitting next to him on the settee .
they had been inseparable during the day , investigating everything together .
his friends had gotten on well with the other women but this was different .
by the end of the day , the two were holding hands more often than not , hardly concentrating on the tasks facing them .
headquarters had agreed .
the events were serious .
forces were placed at high alert across the entire world .
all available watchers were being dispatched to etretat but , for the time being , the six of them were it .
the chore of collating the evidence had fallen upon their shoulders .
they had not shirked their duties and the day had been fruitful .
more monks had been noted , the mossad had been seen , and a contingent of americans had recently arrived .
the french authorities , however , were nowhere to be seen .
the whole town seemed nervous , restless .
the locals had been tight lipped and uncommunicative .
through internet research , robert confirmed several satellites had been used to track the helicopter 's movements .
this was the calm before the storm .
by the end of the day , everyone felt thoroughly exhausted and had retired .
everyone except for pierre and denise .
they were tired , like the others , but something kept them going .
an inner energy had come into existence the moment they met .
now that they were alone together , it blossomed forth in an irresistible tide .
words fell by the wayside and silence took reign when their eyes locked together .
they fell into each other , soul mates coming home .
early next morning .
pierre was lying in bed , denise next to him , her warm , naked body tight against his .
he thrilled feeling her so close and could not believe he was here .
he could count his adventures with women on the fingers of one hand .
none of them had ever been like this .
she was so perfect , so different than the others .
curiously , the sex had n't been the best thing .
it had been knowing he had found her .
the sex had been pretty good too .
there was a noise from the wall and he looked to see what it was .
standing in a dark corner of the room , examining them calmly , was fabian coulter .
hi there .
how are you both doing ? ''
denise had woken up , freaked , then calmed down and gotten dressed under the sheets .
pierre slipped on his pair of pants , trying to figure out what he was going to say .
coulter did n't seem too angry .
in fact , he seemed a bit amused .
sorry to barge in like this but i thought it would be best in the circumstances .
there seems to be a lot of activity around town . ''
how did you get in here ?
how did you even know we were here ? ''
i think i 'll keep that little secret for now , if you do n't mind .
it took me a while to figure out what you did . ''
what ?
i mean what did we do ? ''
you know , put a second wireless minicam beneath the first one .
you hid it under all that sticky tar .
very clever , '' explained coulter .
thank you robert , thought pierre .
however , once i was back in my lab , my equipment soon told me something was up .
instead of disabling the cam , i got curious .
i asked myself who are these guys ?
i knew you were n't part of the americans , or the french , or the israelis .
these cams are jury rigged , probably put together in about three minutes , as far as i can tell . ''
and you 're not mad at us ? ''
well , at first i was , i have to admit it .
i mean , you got me good .
i thought i was better than that .
my wounded pride took over but , after a while , i got to thinking about it .
it was the jury rigging that clinched it .
there 's a certain elegance to it .
it 's not just functional , it 's got style , like what a hacker would do .
like me .
you know what i mean ? ''
pierre and denise nodded .
so i thought to myself , maybe instead of cutting them off , i can use the resources at my disposal to backtrack the signal .
imagine my surprise when the signal triangulated over the villa leblanc .
i had to come see for myself .
so here i am and here you are .
now , why do n't you both tell me who you are and why you are following us . ''
the two watchers looked at each other , not sure what to say , how to begin , or if they should even trust coulter .
hey , i can understand if you 're a bit concerned about me but look at it from my perspective you are the ones bugging me .
by all rights , i should have called in the cavalry but no , i took a chance .
i chose to follow my instincts .
so why do n't the two of you do just that .
trust your instincts .
what do they tell you to do ? ''
denise was the first to speak .
my instincts tell me to trust you , mr coulter . ''
me too , '' added pierre , holding denise 's hand .
very well . ''
he let out a big breath .
in for a penny , in for a pound , i guess , eh ? ''
she nodded , agreeing with him .
denise and i are part of a huge grassroots movement called the watchers .
it started off as a bunch of separate groups , mostly comprised of ufo watchers but , gradually , the different groups were all led to the same conclusions .
something was going on , high level covert stuff .
everyone knew it but the governments involved were all acting as if nothing was going on .
the watchers formed to find out what it was .
it took us a while to piece it together .
each government had a different agenda , the majority looking for some historical treasure , convinced it would lead to true power , to world domination , or to world salvation , depending on who you chose to believe .
their search was based on ancient documents , dead sea scrolls , bible predictions , common mythical events from dead civilizations across the world , a whole slew of different sources , all pointing the finger at coming events of importance , predicted to begin in or around rennes le chateau .
none knew exactly what to expect , although some , like the americans , were ahead of the others , with their steady methodology and scientific approach .
most of us watchers are just regular people , you know , so we were all getting pretty fed up with our governments , watching them enslave us more and more .
i mean , they were doing it , that was a fact .
the question was what were we going to do about it ?
in the end we joined together to watch the watchers .
these governments were waiting for a sign to lead them towards what they sought .
all we had to do was watch them and they would reveal the pot at the end of the rainbow .
so we watch and prepare . ''
coulter could n't believe what he had heard .
are you telling me you represent a movement ? ''
a huge movement , mr coulter .
thousands across the world , with members in each country . ''
regular folks , not militants ? ''
well , we have our military factions like everybody , mr coulter , but we 're not violent as a rule .
it 's just that we 're fed up of being trampled .
we wo n't be caught unaware .
not this time . ''
and what do you want with me ? ''
we 're not sure .
what are you up to ? ''
the simplicity of pierre 's question was audacious .
coulter hesitated before answering , choosing his words .
i think you know we have found something . ''
you have found the secret of immortality .
that is no little thing , sir , '' denise said pointedly .
the thing is , others know and they are here right now , looking for it , '' added pierre .
coulter 's eyes widened in surprise .
what , here , in etretat ? ''
yes , sir .
the americans arrived this morning .
there are at least twelve of them , snooping around the aval cliff , most of them hauling bulky backpacks , probably concealing equipment and weapons .
there are also two israeli agents , a husband and wife team , touristing around , and the abbey has tons of monks all over etretat . ''
i knew about the abbey but i did n't know about the americans .
thanks for telling me . ''
denise added , an urgent tone in her voice .
these are scouts , mr coulter .
like us , they are very curious about you and your friends .
they may not be as peaceable as we are .
our headquarters have informed us attention has focused on etretat at several different levels of government all around the world .
very little of it is good attention . ''
it is the absence of the french which bothers me the most , '' pierre continued .
what do you mean ? ''
they were in rennes le chateau , like the others .
why are they not here ?
it is their country .
the only reason they would n't be here is that they made a deal to stay away and those deals never spell any good for whoever 's concerned . ''
coulter was impressed with the man 's logic .
impressed and worried .
listen you two , it 's hard for me to explain what we 're up to because i 'm not sure myself .
i 'm like you , a regular guy caught up in some pretty wild events , but i trust the guy leading this thing , paul sirenne .
we 've already had our share of problems .
there 's a serial killer involved , messing everyone around .
we 're not sure who to trust .
paul 's just thrown out the abbey watchdogs .
i guess that 's one big thing out of the way .
i do n't know what else to say to you two .
you both seem pretty decent .
where do you want to go from here ? ''
i think we should talk to headquarters about this meeting .
maybe we could work something out .
it looks like you found what everyone 's been looking for . ''
seems like it , all right .
from my point of view it 's becoming a pretty hot potato , '' coulter held out a small card .
if you send emails there , i 'll get them right away . ''
thanks . ''
hang around the villa leblanc as long as you can .
it 's easy for me to get here without being seen . ''
how did you get in , mr coulter ? ''
coulter laughed .
did n't you know ?
this is the land of secret tunnels . ''
having said that , he opened up the wall behind him and vanished into a secret passage .
paul sirenne chapter twenty coulter steps up to the plate that was father plantagenet on the phone .
he says that the americans have arrived in etretat .
they 're not doing much , just looking around the aval cliff , although they were carrying some heavy equipment .
plantagenet also confirmed the mossad were around for a while but left shortly after sunrise .
an intercepted radio message from the americans revealed they were getting ready for something . ''
let 's call coulter to check on the progress with the camera surveillance system , '' suggested raymonde internally .
no need .
he called a short while ago , told me he 'd meet us here .
he did mention the cam work was done , '' i replied .
that 's a relief .
i 'll check into getting the net to man the vid cam stations in the surveillance room . ''
i think that 's underway too .
o'flanahan took that task over . ''
he 's the right man for the job , '' she commented .
ha ha , yes he is , '' i laughed .
out of the way , checking everybody out , seeing who 's doing what .
sounds exactly like him . ''
coulter knocked on the door and entered , a smug smile on his face .
i know something you do n't . ''
it did n't take much prodding to get him to reveal his adventures with pierre and denise .
coulter , if these watchers of yours were listening in on our conversations , they know everything , '' i worried .
yes , that 's right , everything .
it was useless to pretend anything else with them .
we 're just lucky they 're on our side . ''
you think so ? ''
nothing 's set in stone but in a situation between governments and us , they 're going to root for the underdog .
it 's a given .
they do n't trust the governments , not a single bit .
they 're going to contact us through an email address i gave them .
at least the communication line 's open .
it 's not like those americans .
they 're not saying a word . ''
how did you get to the watchers . ''
mrs leblanc told me about them . ''
my mother ? ''
asked raymonde .
yes , she signed them in at the front desk .
she made sure to place the leader in your old room , the one with the tunnel leading to the office .
it was a perfect set up .
i could n't resist it .
we had recently reopened the blown tunnels below etretat .
it was the perfect occasion to use them .
mrs leblanc believed they were all right , not a threat anyway .
i almost fell into a love nest when i got there .
felt fairly embarrassed about it , i have to admit .
they 're genuine enough .
a bunch of good folks who have had enough and decided to get involved . ''
tired of being manipulated , '' i said .
i know the feeling .
well , keep talking to them , not much else we can do .
and coulter ?
i know you took some risks doing this but good job anyway . ''
i was n't so worried about the risks since i began breathing those spores .
it was the first time i ever did anything like that .
it was exhilarating .
i feel full of energy . ''
do n't let it get to you .
the energy can get a bit much after a while . ''
well , it has n't been a bother so far , let me tell you , '' laughed coulter .
i 've never felt so alive as i do now . ''
greyman chronicles the americans preparations omaha looked at his men , proud of what they had accomplished in so short a time .
a report from the advance team had informed him the stealth sub was prepped and ready .
best of all , the helmets had just arrived .
i want you to keep in mind that these helmets carry limited resources .
their batteries only last so long , about one hour , so far as the experts say , and we were n't able to get replacement batteries in time .
do n't activate them until the last minute which , in our estimation , will be when we enter the underwater tunnel .
there 's a good chance the immortals will know that we are here if we wait any longer to activate them .
our entrance will take a half hour to carry out , so we will be pressed for time to accomplish our mission .
speed is of the essence , speed and accuracy .
each of you has your appointed tasks .
you have seen the images of the six people most likely to be immortal , the six from the church .
they have been identified their names are below the images .
if you see any one of them , be careful .
they are likely to be very strong and fast , possibly resistive to weapons fire .
finally , i 'd like to spend one last moment on our special weapons .
we only have two foam guns and they are definitely cumbersome , requiring a two man team for each weapon .
it can not be used without planning .
an accident could seal a tunnel with expanding foam .
we must therefore be sure of our target .
we have to force the immortals to come to our guns .
do n't forget our plans for this .
the electrical nets have been scrapped .
we could n't get the bugs ironed out in time .
finally , the coil weapons are single use only and give a hell of a recoil when released , so position yourselves so as not to be thrown back .
keep yourselves focused and alert .
those immortals are dangerous .
hopefully we can capture them for future study but only if possible .
our primary goal will be to release the nerve gas in the fans .
it should deal with everyone except for the immortals .
we have all been immunized against its effects but it should drop the frenchmen like flies .
until then , use any and all means to incapacitate the immortals .
kill everyone else .
there is only one option for us success at any cost .
you know what this means .
all right , from now on , we maintain radio silence .
no chatter .
carry out your plans .
send the codes when your task is accomplished . ''
his speech done , he led them to the submarine , hidden beneath a luxury yacht shell .
they checked their weapons one final time before taking their posts inside the sub , the last man closing the hatch tightly .
the radio operator received the go ahead from headquarters and , after a nod from omaha , they submerged , going immediately into stealth mode .
there was no turning back now .
sinking beneath the waves , they received the coded confirmation from the second team .
they were ready to blast through whenever omaha gave the signal .
paul sirenne chapter twenty one last minute doubts the three hundred net members in the caves were now armed .
children had been herded into the safest caves .
the techno glasses ' emergency network had been activated and everyone was at high alert .
i had talked to dr phillippe and his reports were encouraging .
after a series of random physicals among the cave population , he reported the spores were having a noticeable effect .
however , the effect was incomplete .
many people were only partially covered on the outside .
internal organs seemed better protected .
it made sense .
the lungs were probably the first area to get coated by the airborne spores .
from the lungs , they made their way into the blood stream .
outer skin , on the other hand , would take more time to coat .
o'flanahan was overseeing his surveillance empire and coulter was monitoring all radio frequencies , hoping to get advance notice of an invasion .
i was on pins and needles .
the tension was truly unbearable .
an attack was imminent and all we could do was wait .
our ace in the hole , the spores , had not yet had their forty eight hours .
i could only hope their effect would be sufficient .
briar entered the conference cave .
it had been adapted as temporary headquarters .
he was without his usual retinue of bodyguards , dispatched to monitor key areas in the caves .
he looked worried .
the whole situation is going wrong .
when we started this , i had anticipated we would do our research in peace and quiet , free to reveal our discoveries to the world at leisure .
now , it seems to me as if our actions are becoming impulsive , reactive to the circumstances .
we are in danger of losing control .
deep planning seems to have gone by the wayside .
we have even taken to following dreams rather than facts and logic . ''
briar , i know you 're upset about my decision to release the spores .
i understand how methodical you are and know you think my latest decisions have little planning to them .
but that 's only when seen from your specific point of view , which i do not share in this instance .
the spores have prodded me into a whole new state of being .
i am evolving , changing .
the changes bring a new perspective , changing the world around me . ''
how can you see things differently ?
nothing has changed . ''
that is the amazing part .
nothing ever changes , things are always what they are , but i have changed !
look , briar , you 've always believed the world had to be controlled , understood , mastered . ''
that would be an accurate statement , '' he agreed .
our problem is we are faced with something which we can not master .
no amount of control , of planning can help .
it is pointless to bash our heads against the walls trying to impose what no longer applies .
our approach must change . ''
i can accept that . ''
the solution , when planning falls by the wayside , is to trust your instincts .
worrying about previous actions and mistakes does nothing .
given that , we can stop wasting energy and focus with single minded attention on what is happening right now . ''
you would never have talked like this before . ''
i can not simply think anymore .
i have to act .
i have to lead . ''
well , you have are performing that role much better than i would have believed possible .
i am most proud of you . ''
a tendril invaded my mind .
raymonde !
something is happening .
i can feel it . ''
her mental contact was strong and clear , as if she were next to me .
using her enhanced field as advance radar , she had been alerted to an invasion .
i stood up , all hesitation gone .
it was time .
greyman chronicles the americans time to do or die trying the stealth sub slid along , hovering a mere four meters above the seabed .
sonar was being used , supplemented by satellite imagery .
they now had an exact picture of where they were heading .
the advance team had used portable radar equipment to map out a rudimentary layout of the cave complex .
heat imagery had informed them there were hundreds of people in the cave system along with the suspected immortals .
of more concern , confirmation about a large quantities of weapons being delivered to the etretat submarine dock had come in .
whoever was in there was armed to the teeth .
omaha gritted his molars together , a habit born out of nervousness .
the situation was far riskier than he liked .
he was glad they had the nerve gas .
the task would be so much harder without it .
looking at his watch , he signaled the others .
it was time to enter the tunnel .
the advance team was composed of twenty four men , each a battle hardened veteran .
they had located a hollow area behind the old nazi bunker on top of the aval cliff .
their demolitions expert had placed sufficient explosives to blast a circular hole directly above the hollow .
computer enhanced satellite imagery was being relayed to a wrist held , three dimensional graphic display of the cave layout below them .
each team member would be easily able to navigate the main tunnels during the invasion .
gps satellite tracking would update the digital cave layout in real time as the mission proceeded , ensuring accurate positioning .
the advance team mission was twofold and crucial to the success of the overall attack .
it had to be completed within thirty minutes , the time anticipated for the stealth sub force to get into the underwater access cave .
first , the advance team had to reach the ventilation system , deep in the cave complex and release the nerve gas .
it would take effect instantly , causing nausea and gagging , followed by intense cramping .
if untreated , unconsciousness and death would result within minutes of exposure .
their second mission directive was to reach the stealth sub access point , a massive cave at the bottom of the complex , hopefully driving a few immortals into their trap along the way .
the advance team leader could n't believe no one had noticed this cave network before .
their research had revealed no existing geographical studies , no archeological digs , no research at all into the area .
it was as if someone had erased everything about etretat .
a small green light flashed on his arm band .
he signaled his men , huddling close against the bunker .
they had encountered several monk mercenaries and security guards and had dispatched them without setting off the alarm .
the demolitions specialist indicated he was ready and activated the trigger mechanism .
the shaped explosive charge blasted downward with a muffled 'whummphh ' , its destructive energy concentrated in a one meter circle .
the advance team dropped rope coils into the jagged hole , rappelling down quickly .
five soldiers took defensive position in the tunnels , waiting for the rest of the force , their magnetic field helmets activated .
the night vision goggles were useless because the caves were brightly lit .
they hurried down the hall , silenced weapons bristling in all directions .
they had hoped stealth would be maintained until mission end .
unfortunately , their entrance was noticed immediately .
heat sensing satellite imagery revealed three groups heading their way .
they ran faster , almost reaching the huge circular staircase leading to the lower part of the complex before encountering their first resistance .
five men brandishing revolvers ran out from a side tunnel , arriving on them from the rear .
the team dropped into formation and opened fire .
the silenced automatic weapons emitted a muffled staccato as they fired multiple three round bursts into the five men .
the bullets smacked into their bodies , the impact knocking them down .
one by one , the frenchmen slumped to the ground , riddled with bullets .
a revolver shot stopped the advance team 's return to the staircase .
a soldier dropped , knocked down by a bullet slamming into his bulletproof vest .
two french guards were getting back up , still alive .
the three others were scrambling for their handguns .
automatic weapons barked again but , this time , the french were shooting back .
several well aimed revolver shots hit mercenaries in the neck and head , dropping two of them .
the advance team shot back with ferocity , trying to kill people who should already be dead .
only one of the five men was down , blood dripping from a stomach wound .
the others were still handling their weapons , despite being shot multiple times .
reloading was the only thing slowing them down .
the advance team managed to put them down by directing concerted fire on each of the men in turn , riddling them with dozens of rounds .
the frenchmen fell but not before taking three more americans out and forcing the use of a serious amount of ammunition .
the team reloaded as they dashed down the huge circular staircase .
those men should have died instantly .
why had it been so hard to kill them ?
paul sirenne chapter twenty two getting into position they 're in the staircase , i can see them plain as day , '' coulter shouted into his mike , flashing the video on the monitors for everybody to see , and giving the alarm .
they 've killed five of us already , so get ready . ''
block the stairs , lock them in , '' suggested briar .
they 've got to be heading towards the power station . ''
coulter relayed the message to a team who quickly ran into position , tossing together a barricade of desks and chairs at the bottom of the stairs .
i headed towards the staircase to help them , leaving briar in charge of the command room .
i ca n't feel them at all , '' raymonde sent .
they 've got something protecting them . ''
that was not good .
i had hoped that raymonde 's ability would have been of some use but apparently the invaders were ready for us .
i hurried , anxious to reach the barricade , to give those mercenaries something to think about .
it only took a few minutes to reach the stairs but i could hear the commotion long before i arrived .
it sounded like all out war .
greyman chronicles the americans breaking through sir , they 've erected a barricade .
it 'll take time to get through . ''
the advance team leader took stock and answered the soldier .
no problem .
you three take the lead and keep them busy .
the rest of you follow me . ''
he headed to the floor level above the barricade , going went down the hall and directing the explosive expert to blow a hole into the level below , intending to bypass the barricade .
they had to stay focused on their mission directives , not get involved in skirmishes .
three mercenaries shot at the men cowering behind the barricade , keeping them pinned down .
they crept closer , staying concealed below the concrete guardrail to avoid the sporadic gunfire from below .
they tossed several flash bang grenades .
they detonated right behind the barricade , the multiple explosions causing a powerful concussive effect in the tight corridor .
the french guards were blown against the concrete walls , hitting them with crushing force .
the three americans rushed the barricade , intending to shoot their way past , when a scream caused them to spin on their heels .
a man was vaulting through the air , coming straight down at them , jumping across an impossible distance .
in a blur , their guns came up , shooting rapidly , throwing a barrage of bullets at the oncoming man .
it should have pulverized him .
instead the bullets glanced off , his clothes ripped to tatters , exposing undamaged skin .
his expression was deadly , implacable .
it 's one of the immortals .
i recognize his face , it 's that sirenne guy , '' one of the soldiers shouted .
they redoubled weapons fire , fear griping them .
one of them pulled a grenade but it was too late .
the immortal was upon them .
he landed like a ton of bricks , immobile , scrutinizing the three men impassively .
drop your weapons right now .
i wo n't ask again . ''
they answered with point blank gunfire .
the bullets hit the immortal but nothing affected him .
his face hardened and he pounced forward , suddenly among them .
his arms shot out like two snakes , gripping two necks and twisting hard .
he dropped the bodies and looked calmly at the third man .
a coil of razor sharp steel hit the immortal directly on the back , the coils wrapping his torso , arms and legs , effectively cocooning him .
he fell forward from the unexpected impact , hitting the ground like a wrapped up mummy .
the last mercenary wasted no time and rushed past the immortal 's prostate form , heading up the stairs to join his team .
they had come back for him in the nick of time .
you better hope those coils hold him .
he 's unstoppable , '' the mercenary screamed , rejoining the others .
the immortal stretched his arms , flexing his muscles and opening the tightened coils , snapping the bands as easily as tissue paper .
he stood up and looked at the landing above .
back up , back up , and blow the entrance to the second floor .
that 'll slow him down , '' ordered the leader frantically .
the americans retreated , tossing several grenades , sealing the entrance behind them with a thunderous explosion .
the team leader looked at his men , his expression grim .
well , scratch one super weapon .
hope the other one fares better .
at least the coils saved you , soldier . ''
yes , sir .
thanks for coming back for me . ''
do n't thank me yet .
we have n't finished this mission .
let 's go . ''
paul sirenne chapter twenty three spreading the news the grenades crumpled the second floor entrance when i ripped the final coil off .
the guards ran up from the barricade , looking awed .
that was amazing , mr sirenne . ''
one said .
no more amazing than us not being hurt .
those grenades should have blown my eardrums out yet i feel fine .
i do n't even have a bump on my head , '' the second man noted , his eyes wide in wonder .
it was a little insurance on my part .
i fixed it so you would all be protected , a bit like i am . ''
the men remained silent , until one of them asked the question uppermost in their minds .
you mean those soldiers ca n't kill us no more ? ''
i grinned .
well , i 'd still be careful but it sure is going to take a hell of a lot more to stop any of you now . ''
heck , it took a lot to stop me before , mr sirenne , '' one of them said , grinning from ear to ear .
now i 'm going to be damn near unstoppable .
i ca n't wait to tell the others .
we 're going to have us a blast .
those soldiers are going to be in for a surprise . ''
we went back down the stairs to the barricade .
coulter provided some surveillance video showing what the americans were up to .
they were planning to blow a hole above the first floor hub and bypass our barricade .
from there they would be able to access the power station , the fans and the tunnel to the lagoon cave .
we 've got to get there before they do . ''
i 'm on my way to you , paul . ''
raymonde .
i hurried through the barricade , instructing coulter to call in as many men as possible to stop those soldiers .
we were too late .
i heard the blast of their explosives long before i reached the hub .
the americans threw several grenades , the explosions bringing the ceiling down , blocking access to them .
i raged , feeling frustrated and impotent .
i was getting angry and the river of energy within me was building into a torrent .
greyman chronicles the americans keeping to the plan he 's coming , i can see him through the rubble , '' a soldier screamed , cold sweat dripping off his brow .
it 's the immortal .
we 've got to get going or he 'll kill us all . ''
if you do n't shut up , i 'll kill you myself , '' the advance team leader ranted .
get a hold of yourself , for god 's sake , man . ''
hearing a noise , he turned and saw the immortal lift a huge piece of concrete and toss it to the side .
at this rate , he would have the obstructions cleared in thirty seconds .
there was n't a moment to lose .
time to split up .
you ten go to the fans and release the nerve gas .
that is our most important mission objective .
you must not fail . ''
the mercenaries took off without another word , running down the power room access tunnel at full tilt .
now the rest of you come with me .
it 's time to rejoin the primary team , '' he screamed , seeing the immortal lift the last obstructing block of concrete .
instead of throwing it to the side , the immortal threw this one directly at the team leader .
the three hundred kilogram block of reinforced concrete blasted out of the tunnel , taking the americans by surprise .
it was an impossible throw , an incredible feat of strength .
the team leader managed to croak out a barely audible no ! ''
before the jagged block hit him directly in the chest .
smashing through the team , and taking another two , the block sailed through the air carrying its grizzly three man cargo , pinned on protruding twisted metal bars .
they met their end against the far wall .
the remaining americans regrouped , retreating into the tunnel leading to the lagoon cave , shooting concentrated gunfire at the immortal .
they called ahead to the primary team below , learning they were engaged in a firefight , and in desperate need of their support .
behind them , the immortal kept getting closer , surrounded by more french guards , all of whom were shooting down the tunnel .
the soldiers let go several more bursts and took off down the lagoon access tunnel at a dead run .
omaha peered up at the brightly lit lagoon cave , his eyes blinking .
their night vision equipment was so much junk now .
no one had anticipated the extreme brightness of the caves .
the brief transmission from the advance team had come through .
despite some losses , they would likely accomplish their missions in the allotted time .
good !
if everything worked out right , this would all be over in thirty minutes .
two machine guns began blasting from the platform above , bullets lancing through the water at a rate of more than five hundred rounds a minute .
omaha dove back under the water and headed for the dock , where better cover might be found .
some of his men shot back but with the ceiling over thirty five meters in the air , their accuracy was minimal , the angle terrible .
they were in trouble .
was that a gold submarine over there ?
more of his men joined him and they hid between the dock and the gold submarine .
it had a nazi emblem on its side , of all things .
was this a hidden nest of the long gone third reich ?
immortal nazis ?
wondered omaha .
they assaulted the lower dock , shooting from the water .
two guards near the staircase fell down , hit by several bullets .
they did not stay down .
crawling up the stairs , hit repeatedly with machine gun fire , nothing seemed to stop the guards .
mowed down by a hail of bullets , impossibly , they began moving again , simply refusing to die .
the turret machine guns blasting from above were far more effective than their own water soaked weapons .
several of his men had already been killed by the merciless barrage .
they only had relative safety if they remained underwater .
this was going nowhere .
where was the advance team ?
the ten americans ran down the power room access tunnel , encountering a single maintenance worker .
he was shot simultaneously by three soldiers , a gunshot to the hip , another to the heart and a third to the head .
the bullet to his head glanced off , leaving a deep gouge on the skin , the bullet intended for his heart was stopped after penetrating the skin .
the hip bullet slid through the spore 's protection , smashing through his hip and spinning him around .
he fell back against his work trolley , deep in shock , bleeding heavily .
unnoticed by the rushing americans , the flow of blood decreased steadily , the body repairing itself at an impossible speed .
he would be good as new in a few minutes .
the americans burst into the power room , quickly taking cover behind any available object , all attempts at stealth thrown by the wayside .
we have to get to those fans no matter what .
if we can release the nerve gas , our job here will be done in a few minutes .
we 'll only have to deal with the immortals . ''
i sure hope so .
those guards we 've been fighting have n't been pushovers , if any of you have noticed .
i sure hope they 're not all immortals . ''
incoming . ''
guards had seen them rushing in and were setting up defensive positions .
the sheer scale of the power room was daunting .
looking around they saw no power plant to destroy , just a series of giant metallic cubes .
beyond it was a doorway leading to the fan room .
that 's our objective , men .
forget blowing the power plant for now .
we do n't have the time .
all that matters is releasing that gas .
we go for that door , no matter what it takes . ''
they advanced in groups of two , jumping from cover to cover .
the other soldiers provided cover fire , keeping the opposite forces pinned .
or at least they tried to .
most of the frenchmen refused to be intimidated , returning shots despite heavy fire in their direction .
it was as if they were all crazy , heedless of the dangers of their exposed positions .
it made advancing a far slower process .
the forward most soldiers took a bullet in the neck , blood jetting from the hole in strong pulses .
his nerveless fingers dropped the machine gun and he fell back against the soldier next to him .
a minute after that , another shot felled a soldier who had exposed the top of his helmet .
some of those frenchmen could shoot !
cheering could be heard from the other side and several insults were shouted at the americans , followed by more jeers .
they were all crazy .
moving carefully , the remaining eight americans pulled out grenades , throwing several and exploding the french off the railings on the left side of the power plant cave .
the americans made for the cleared section , running between the frenchmen , halving their distance to the fan room door in one fell swoop .
they only had to make their way to the far end of the walkway to reach the door .
the problem was the ten guards between them and the door .
the situation did not improve when the frenchmen charged , shooting rifles , machine guns and revolvers all at once .
the americans were highly exposed .
there was nothing to do for it .
we have to make it .
use the flash bangs all in a row , clear us a path .
do it now , there 's no time , they 're almost on top of us .
man , can those guards run fast ! ''
they lobbed three flash bang grenades , then three more , quickly averting their eyes , their ears already muffled by the thick helmets they wore .
there was no resisting the concussive impact of the grenades .
the period of disorientation following the blasts was sufficient to allow the americans to forge ahead , shooting rapidly at specific targets as they ran past .
all aimed for body shots and tried to hit every target twice .
they felt elated , their tactic had worked .
they now had clear passage to the door .
no wait , over there , at the cave entrance , it 's one of the immortals . ''
it 's the youngest one of the bunch .
named coulter . ''
he 's too far away to catch us in time . ''
they hurried along the landing , making for the door .
coulter wasted no time and bounded in great jumps , holding a submachine gun in each hand , aiming directly for the americans .
as soon as he was in range , which was n't long , he began shooting with both guns , raining a devastating hail of bullets on the american team .
they returned fire with desperation .
three more of their team fell .
the rest ran all the harder for the fan door .
coulter jumped around their fire easily , laughing with delight , shooting several more accurate bursts , dropping another two men .
the last two americans howled with rage at seeing their comrades fall and threw their last remaining grenades at the insanely fast immortal .
they separated , one making directly for coulter , guns blazing , while the other ran for the fan room door , in a last ditch attempt to finish their mission .
coulter could not shoot at the man making for the door .
the other american was blocking his way .
more grenades exploded but coulter avoided the worst of the blasts and kept moving , aiming his two machine guns again and shooting with deadly accuracy .
over twenty bullets slammed into the american , most of them stopped by his vest .
most , but not all .
the man fell sideways , squeezing off a final few shots into the ground before collapsing on the floor .
coulter jumped over him , his guns still firing .
bullets slammed into a closing door .
the american had gotten in .
coulter vaulted over the railing and landed at a dead run , reaching the door in seconds , ripping it open and seeing the american nearly at the end of the hallway , about to enter the fan room .
coulter shot off several rounds , one of them hitting an exposed area under the soldier 's arm .
mortally wounded , the american only had moments to live .
fading fast , he managed to enter the fan room , closing the door behind him and kicking his machine gun below the door , jamming the door shut .
great gouts of blood were pouring out of his wound and his rasping breath carried a fine red mist .
coulter reached the door , slamming hard against it .
the american ripped open his pack , breaking the hermetic seal with a snap , pulling an oblong object from it carefully .
his vision dimming , he pulled a tab with a weak and trembling hand .
several bullets hit his body .
his nerveless hand dropped the tube and it fell into the fan .
hitting the massive fan blades , it exploded on contact , releasing a heavy cloud of gas .
it dispersed up the main ventilation shaft , rapidly reaching every nook and cranny of the cave complex .
coulter sniffed the air apprehensively for a moment , expecting to drop dead but , after a short while , realized the spores had done their job .
the net and his friends were safe .
smiling to himself , he sniffed the air again noting a faint scent .
smells like nutmeg . ''
the remaining advance team burst out on the upper landing of the lagoon cave , shooting the men manning the turret machine guns at point blank range .
within moments , they had secured the area .
they threw the guards over the thick concrete railing , letting them fall thirty five meters to the water below .
when the machine gun fire stopped , omaha and his men climbed up on the lower landing .
omaha looked down in the water at his remaining men .
the furthest one jerked to a halt , then bobbed down under the water .
a second man disappeared a few second later , pulled under with terrible force .
watch out .
there 's someone under the water .
could be an immortal . ''
several americans shot their weapons into the water sporadically but it was hopeless .
bullets had little traveling power underwater .
the men hurried , trying to get out of the water but they still lost another two men , reducing their force to sixteen , down from twenty four .
the missing men eventually resurfaced , floating lifelessly .
whoever had been attacking them never broke the surface once .
no air bubbles .
the immortal was n't even breathing .
omaha had a sinking feeling in his stomach .
he might not survive this .
so far , all his plans had failed .
not enough intelligence .
not enough planning .
not enough men .
not enough luck .
yet , he was so close .
he could feel it .
immortality was here , in these caves .
there was always plan b .
if you could n't take it , you could always destroy it .
paul sirenne chapter twenty four getting caught .
i hurried down the tunnel with more than thirty men behind me .
raymonde was close .
i could feel her and she was just as agitated as i was .
whatever they 're using to stop me feeling them is getting weaker .
i think it 's battery powered .
there 's a certain feel to the fields around them .
i 'm going to keep battering at them . ''
although hers was n't a physical attack , i pitied those men when their devices failed .
raymonde was very angry .
i reached the end of the tunnel and came out in the lagoon cave , lifting and tossing four mercenaries over the railing in as many seconds .
i headed for the top of the staircase when a tarp was thrown back , revealing three crouching men , the center one with a tank strapped to his back .
a strong jet of yellowish liquid spewed out of a tube .
it swelled up into thick sticky foam when it hit me .
no matter how i moved , the foam kept expanding , covering more and more of my body .
keep spraying , shoot it on his legs , '' someone screamed .
the foam hardened very quickly .
it heated up , thickening into molasses , then soft rubber .
after that , it became much more like hard cement .
i could n't move at all .
at least my vision was unobstructed .
i was off balance and , no matter what i did , fell over the landing .
my world changed into a rolling version of hell .
i could n't do anything about it , immobilized by the foam .
i rolled down the stairs like a giant beach ball , my only satisfaction being that i bowled several mercenaries into the water on my way down .
above me , guards from the net were firing desperately , gaining a foothold on the top landing .
several others had been hit by the foam weapon .
i rolled to the bottom , barely missing another three americans , before splashing out onto the water .
the foam ball righted itself , floating with my head up , my eyes darting left and right in an attempt to see what was going on .
they got me good , raymonde .
watch out for their foam weapon . ''
i 'm coming paul , i 'll be there in moments . ''
greyman chronicles the americans time to die trying omaha watched as the immortal bearing foam ball floated away , not believing it .
they had caught one of the six .
he told the soldier next to him to prepare the small nuclear device , while sending three others to snare the foamed up immortal with grappling hooks .
he glanced at his watch .
the helmets batteries were going to die soon .
they only had a few minutes left at most .
how could time have gone by so fast ?
he saw one of his men , who had been bowled into the water by the foam ball , get pulled under just as he reached the safety of the dock .
then another , and another .
all three gone , just like that .
those immortals were monsters !
he looked up at the top landing , where a ferocious battle was going on , a battle his men were losing .
those guards just would n't go down .
they kept taking slug after slug .
it was just a matter of time before they lost that position and the machine guns turrets would begin firing down on them again .
he looked at the giant floating foam ball .
how would they get that back to the sub , or even into the sub ?
the foam was too buoyant to be pulled underwater , not in the few minutes they had left .
it was hopeless .
they had failed .
omaha nodded at the soldier kneeling by the small tactical nuke .
the soldier 's face blanched , understanding what he was being ordered to do .
his hand reached to activate the timer but stopped suddenly .
omaha asked him what he was waiting for but the man never replied .
when omaha touched his shoulder , the man fell over sideways revealing a clean hole , right in the middle of his forehead .
where had that shot come from ?
omaha did n't waste any time looking and reached for the trigger mechanism .
paul sirenne chapter twenty five unexpected saviors , unexpected revelations i was floating on the water .
some americans had snagged a hook on the foam .
they were reeling me in when i heard a shot nearby .
it came from across the landing .
i was rotating on the water and saw two still forms resting on the edge of the water , in camouflage rubber suits , with equally camouflaged rifles , aiming at the dock .
i continued rotating and my eyes fell upon the dock where one of the americans from the church was talking to a man kneeling in front of a medium sized box .
the kneeling man fell over .
the american reached down to do something in the box .
before he could touch it , another shot resounded behind me and his head exploded .
the few remaining americans had begun returning fire but they were guessing .
they could not pick out the camouflage from the landscape .
there they are , '' shouted raymonde in my head .
those americans have just lost their protection . ''
every soldier suddenly stopped moving .
i felt an incredible tension in the air .
the field raymonde was generating increased in intensity , putting more and more pressure on those poor americans .
their eyes were bulging terribly in their sockets as they vainly tried to escape their fate , unable to move .
i felt a ten fold increase in the pressure .
the power behind it was unbelievable .
every american instantly collapsed on the ground , killed on the spot .
waves hit my foam prison and it rolled loosely on the water .
by luck , it rotated to the left and my eyes fell once more upon the two camouflaged forms .
they were standing up , dropping their weapons , and raising their hands up in the air but not before removing the masks , exposing their faces .
the two mossad agents .
ives vallin had reeled me in and , after some chipping at the hardened foam , managed to get a few cracks in it , allowing me some degree of movement .
it was all i needed to break free .
a guard handed me some overalls to replace my tattered clothing , shredded by hundreds of rounds .
we headed to the top of the landing , where i finally met up with raymonde , hugging her .
i killed all those men . ''
as did i , earlier .
it had to be done . ''
you are right but still ... '' yes .
still . ''
later , we reassembled in the command center , where briar waited for us .
he had remained there , preferring to keep on top of things rather than participate in the fire fight .
he was an archeologist , not a mercenary .
o'flanahan had done the same in the surveillance room .
four guards had just brought in the mossad agents .
raymonde , sensing their fields , had known instinctively these two meant us no harm .
we had found the nuclear device on the dock and now knew those two shots from the mossad rifles were responsible for saving our lives .
immortality or not , i doubted we could have survived a nuclear blast .
these were the same two mossad agents who had invaded our caves earlier .
they had come here uninvited and left without explaining themselves but they had returned exactly on time to save us .
it earned them a chance to explain themselves .
i gestured at them to sit but they refused and remained standing , seeming nervous to be in my presence .
the woman held a wrapped package in her hands .
she stepped forward , placing the package on the table carefully , stepping back quickly .
this may help explain our presence here , '' she said deferentially , making a gesture in the package 's direction .
please open it , sir . ''
i did as she asked , removing the wrappings in a single pull .
the fourth book !
i looked at the two agents , nodding my head in sudden comprehension .
they were the ones who had found the book in sauniere 's magdala tower .
instead of keeping this precious object , they had risked life and limb to save our lives and return the book to the rightful owners .
the man took my nod as his cue my name is avi bakla and this is my wife ziva .
we are mossad agents , sent here on a mission of the highest importance .
our country had long been curious about the strange goings on around rennes le chateau .
we were looking for the fabled menorah originally but also for a mythical book which was supposed to explain the meaning of life itself .
it was reputed to have been hidden by the priest sauniere .
after many searches , we were convinced the book was hidden under the floor in the magdala tower .
we eventually identified the square only to be confronted by a bizarre locking mechanism which challenged us for several years .
you can imagine our surprise when we finally removed this fabled book and found it to be nothing else but a work of fiction .
'the hollow needle ' by a french author , maurice leblanc , dead in 1939 .
it took us a while to realize this author had left behind clues in his other novels , clues about sauniere that could lead one to find this book .
but why this book ?
what was important about it ?
eventually we found out the book was indestructible .
it was treated with a bizarre substance which rendered invulnerability to the book .
that was n't all .
the company which printed the books had no records of such a production run .
the books were signed by the author with apparently genuine signatures but the author was dead long before the books were supposedly printed .
nothing about this book was what it seemed . ''
ziva interrupted her husband .
we were not involved when the book was found but we were the ones selected to do most of the investigating .
we found many connections between sauniere and leblanc .
the two worked together with a single purpose , to hide this indestructible book , waiting for a specific person to come and find it .
we were not the people intended to find it .
we had just been lucky . ''
or thorough , '' observed o'flanahan .
yes , that we always have been .
but somehow we had found a very special object .
we knew it had a purpose we could not decipher .
however , we could not ignore the object 's bizarre attributes .
our physicists derived certain conclusions from their examination of the object 's properties , linking it to predictions from the ancient testament .
we were ordered to investigate further .
we began to believe we were looking at predictions about armageddon .
of course , many did not agree with this interpretation .
no matter their objections , the fact remained that portents all over the world were supporting our view of developing events .
our leaders chose to err on the side of caution , lest we be right . ''
avi jumped in , his earnest eyes boring into me .
that is why israel resolved to wait and watch rennes le chateau .
if our version of coming events were true , then a very special person would be coming to get the object now in our possession we resolved to wait , to see who would come .
we have waited .
for you , paul sirenne .
after our brief foray into your caves , seeing the other three books , we knew you had to be the long awaited man .
we were ordered to return this object to its rightful owner and to help you in your task in whatever way we were able .
israel was born out of faith , of a covenant between our people and our god .
this same covenant has led us to you , to these caves .
the book falling into our hands was our test of faith and we will not have been found wanting . ''
his wife took over without skipping a beat .
it sounded like a prepared speech , which it probably was .
our faith has always been at the center of everything for us .
it stretches back into antiquity , into the ancient testament when our lord chose our people to carry his faith , our covenant with him .
since that time , we have endeavored to remain true to his words .
we have tried to discern the meaning hidden within them .
always , our struggle has remained a test of faith .
never any proof .
your arrival has changed all that .
it was the catalyst we had been waiting for .
we knew you would come and what our role would be when you did .
israel 's decision has been made , not out of choice , but out of faith . ''
avi continued .
this is why the two of us have been ordered to place ourselves entirely at your disposal .
we will act as intermediaries between you and our government , should you choose to accept us in that role . ''
at our disposal for what ? ''
i asked , stunned .
that is open for discussion , sir .
our leaders believe your goals and ours are aligned in a unique way , because of our faith .
in these difficult times , we want you to know that we are on your side .
and know this as well paul sirenne will be protected .
what the americans have done will never occur again .
our country vows it . ''
i was not ready for this .
they thought i was some type of special being .
they were wrong .
i was not .
i was just some guy in the right place at the right time .
sure , i had to make tough decisions .
sure , events had made it seem as if my arrival was the result of predictions but , inside myself , i did not believe i was made of special material , nor was my destiny a prophesied one .
perhaps , paul , but look at how we are changing .
we are not as we once were and i doubt we shall ever be again .
my field is making me so much more sensitive to how we are interconnected .
what has happened to us can not be explained through conventional wisdom , '' raymonde sent .
she had been listening to my thoughts .
our connection was so strong that we were almost one .
i replied in the same manner .
you may be right but i have never been one to jump in with both feet , particularly on the assertions of another .
i like to check my facts and they are not all in yet .
dr phillippe has informed me the iridium in the spores has bizarre properties .
he implied there was a scientific basis for what was happening to us .
at present , i tend to agree with him . ''
it was an insoluble argument and we both knew it .
i felt like a doubting thomas .
no matter our questions about these assertions , the situation was still in front of us , in the form of these two mossad agents with their unbelievable proposal .
well , avi and ziva bakla , i accept your offer of support .
you can remain with us and help with our investigations .
we will have to see where this takes us .
i am glad we will do it together . ''
thank you , sir , '' ziva exclaimed .
no , thank you , both of you .
you have saved all of our lives this day .
we can not forget that .
and i am not talking to your country , either .
it is the two of you who are here , who saved us , not them .
it is to you we owe this debt of gratitude . ''
i looked at them intently , making sure they understood i was extending my loyalty to them , not their country .
we entered coulter 's caves , where the other three books were stored .
finally , the first phase of our search was over .
we had found the four books .
i held the fourth copy in my hands and approached the bench , intending to place it with the other three .
within five meters of the other books , the book in my hands began tugging forward .
with every step closer , the tugging increased exponentially .
when i reached three meters , it became hard to hold onto the book .
it was vibrating , pulling this way and that , as if under the influence of a powerful magnetic field .
the other books had all started moving as well .
suddenly , the book flew out of my hands with incredible force and slammed into the other three .
the four books rolled around in the air in a clump , levitating two meters off the ground in front of us .
wow , will you look at that , '' uttered o'flanahan , his raspy voice uncharacteristically hushed .
as they rolled , they began spinning faster and faster .
the four books slowly separated from each other under the centrifugal force , taking equidistant positions .
the mad spinning slowed down until , eventually , the four books stopped moving , still floating two meters off the ground , frozen in position .
coulter pulled out his compass but put it back into his pocket shaking his head .
ca n't use it .
it 's spinning out of control .
i wanted to check .
i think i might be crazy but tell me if those books have n't aligned themselves with magnetic north ? ''
i do n't think you 're crazy , boyo , '' whispered o'flanahan , looking at the floating books in awe .
i approached the levitating books , feeling a pressure around them .
i can feel the pressure too .
it 's very strong .
there 's a lot of energy there , paul . ''
i lightly pushed one of the books .
all four moved in unison , floating slowly away from their alignment .
the energy of my push dissipated and they returned to their original position .
i took hold of two of the books and tried to move them closer together .
i failed .
they are locked in this position .
no matter how much i exert myself , they insist on staying apart from each other in this exact arrangement . ''
great , just great , '' exclaimed o'flanahan sarcastically , finally out of his reverent stage .
another mystery instead of answers .
just what we were looking for .
we got a stupid rock and four floating books for our efforts , which nearly got us all killed , i might add .
well , i do n't mind the 'being immortal ' bit but apart from that , it seems like pretty much of a wash. '' i laughed out loud .
good old o'flanahan .
you could always count on him .
he was , as always , correct !
once again the answers we sought had slipped away the moment we grasped for them .
however , not everything was the same .
we had been changed by our adventures , all of us , within and without .
the world was waking up to our presence and would soon know the caves ' true role in history .
tomorrow would never be the same as a result of what had occurred here today .
there was no going back .
i had embarked on a journey that had to be seen to its conclusion , no matter the costs or where it took me .
the caves had called and i had answered .
i had been tested and i had survived .
i still did not know where this was leading but it was my task to find out .
chosen or not , i knew that , right now , the powers of the world were positioning themselves , choosing sides .
some would come looking to me for answers .
i would not fail them .
i would go on , led by leblanc 's coded words , by sauniere 's hidden messages , by the four books themselves , by the abbey , bolstered by my good friends , coulter , briar and o'flanahan and joined by my other half , raymonde .
no matter where it led me , i would see it through .
greyman chronicles by liam o 'flanahan jacques cartier 's purpose 1534 a.d. captain jacques cartier lowered the looking glass and shook his head , muttering to himself .
he stood alone on the bridge of his ship , 'la grande hermine ' .
it had been 'given ' to him by king francis the first .
cartier knew full well francis had little choice in the matter .
he was moody this morning .
the entire process was just taking too long .
time seemed interminable lately .
first , they had stolen it from him again , not that he did n't want to give it to them , it was here for that , but he had to be fair and keep playing the game .
if they had it hidden and he knew where it was , he was duty bound to go after it , if only to get it out into the world again .
it was all that weasel columbus ' fault .
if he had n't gotten involved with vlad tepes , if vlad tepes had n't found those four abbey monks , if columbus had n't figured out the map , this would have been so much simpler .
but now he had to go back to the new land and see if the darn thing was still where it had been placed .
cartier paced while looking out over the endless waves surrounding them , mumbling to himself some more .
the sailors were all grouped together on the other side of the ship , trying to keep as distant as possible from the frustrated captain .
the crew had been a wild and rowdy bunch at first , looking to their captain as wolves look to the lamb .
they had realized their error quickly .
the first three who spoke out of turn to the captain fell dead to the ground moments after speaking .
all those present swore the captain had never touched any of them , save for a quick hard look .
it took two more to die in the same fashion later that day , for the sailors to realize they had boarded ship with the very devil himself .
and the devil was not a patient man .
it was do or drop dead on the spot .
there was no arguing , no discussion .
the captain commanded and you did exactly what he said , hoping all the while , every single second , that he never once cast his cursed eyes in your direction .
cartier sighed again , feeling the waves pounding against the ship 's hull .
a steady wind pushed them steadily forward , always aimed in the exact direction they needed to go , to oak island , where vlad and columbus had most likely hidden the treasure .
the only question cartier had left was was it still there with the treasure ?
had vlad or columbus taken the one book with them or left it behind , missing its significance ?
if cartier was going to play the game , to obey the rules , he had to go there to find out .
he could n't cheat , not again .
that always ruined things and anyway , so much time had already passed .
what was another few hundred years ?
still , cartier found sailing such a slow , tedious process .
he would have walked but he enjoyed breathing .
it gave him time to rant .
ranting was good .
he could review all the things that had led him here .
considering what had already passed , cartier still did n't know where it was going .
he understood the basic formula well enough , that part was easy now .
it was pretty much like baking take the ingredients , put them in an oven , wait a few millennia and voila !
but he still had not managed to cook that damn cake all the way .
like those overly complicated souffl recipes , the thing tended to collapse at the worst times .
cartier had nearly forgotten how many times he 'd failed .
still , this time , there was a chance .
all the ingredients were assembled , in the right order even .
it had been baking pretty well and a nice smell was starting to come out of the oven .
cartier hoped this was n't one big wasted trip .
if he did n't find the one book at oak island , there was no telling where the thing had ended up .
he 'd have to start digging in the back trail again to figure out what he 'd missed , but he would n't be able to do that until he returned to france .
another insufferable three months at sea , having to go back and crawl in front of that idiot king francis .
the whole idea of it made cartier 's blood boil and he gritted his teeth , uselessly of course , because they could never wear down .
a heavy storm was gathering behind the grande hermine and a blast of wind hit its sails with a strong push , driving the ship even faster through the water .
cartier smiled bitterly , the wind echoing his frustration .
the sooner this was over the better .
at the back of the ship , the sailors huddled even closer together , trembling in fear while listening to their ship 's groaning protests under the wind 's single minded assault .
all of them kept rolling the same thought over and over again in their heads the sooner this was over , the better .
the end for now !
continue paul sirenne 's fantastic adventures in the third installment of the sirenne saga the one book of etretat the sirenne saga unknowingly manipulated to become the key in the final phase of a complex conspiracy spanning millennia , paul sirenne is led to discover hidden knowledge and gain fantastic new abilities , preparing him for an ultimate confrontation beyond the forces of good and evil .
the 'caves of etretat ' series is a four book , epic adventure which follows sirenne as he learns the answer to the primordial question why are we here ?
inextricably woven into actual history and intrinsically based on ancient esoteric principles , the series gradually reveals an alternate perspective on the nature of reality , explaining the why and the how of our existence through sirenne 's personal evolution .
delve deeper into the mysteries of paul sirenne 's story in all four books of the caves of etretat series book one the caves of etretat in the first novel of the series , paul sirenne uncovers a lost family secret , leading him on a historical treasure chase , shortly after his father is found brutally murdered .
assisted by three friends via the internet and hunted by a serial killer , he ends up in touristic etretat , france , on the trail of a hundred year old mystery , hidden in maurice leblanc 's book 'the hollow needle ' .
falling in love with leblanc 's great granddaughter and running at a breakneck pace , he deals with puzzles , theories , codes and historical mysteries , leading him to believe that leblanc held a secret war against adolf hitler for the control of an incredible complex of caves hidden next to etretat .
book two the four books of etretat in the second novel , sirenne discovers the real reason for the hidden war the secret of immortality .
becoming an immortal himself , sirenne learns of the abbey , a thousand year old organization dedicated to chasing the oldest immortal on earth , known as the greyman .
the abbey has given sirenne control of the caves and its secrets , apparently preparing him for a confrontation with the greyman .
unfortunately , the serial killer who killed sirenne 's father , weissmuller , has discovered this knowledge before sirenne .
now an immortal and constantly dogging sirenne 's steps , weissmuller seems to be playing a game of his own .
book three the one book of etretat in the third novel , the world is in chaos .
countless disasters are occurring everywhere and a pandemic disease is killing all children in the womb .
people and countries , desperate for a solution , are demanding sirenne 's immortality cure .
sirenne knows it 's not the true answer and is desperately trying to solve the clues laid out by maurice leblanc and the abbey , looking for the one book .
changed by his immortality , he develops new senses which give him an increasingly different perspective on everything he sees .
at the same time , all events seem to be converging on him .
weissmuller , the immortal serial killer is circling closer and closer .
book four the greyman .
in the fourth and final novel of the series , sirenne learns that he has been selected to lead the abbey to the other , the only being strong enough to defeat the greyman .
sirenne has mastered electromagnetic flight and the ability to manifest objects and manipulate matter .
weissmuller has revealed himself and an uneasy alliance has been made .
the world is falling apart and people are dying by the millions as sirenne continues trying to understand what is really going on .
the unstoppable greyman is drawing near and an ultimate confrontation seems inevitable .
everything rests on sirenne 's final decision .
will he be able to accept the real answers behind everything ?
check the website www.mattchatelain.com for more about the series , including audio excerpts and a biographical series about writing the books .
complete links to books for sale can always be found on his website .
otherwise they are available as ebooks at kindle and smashwords , or , as hardcopy , at amazon.com more books by matt chatelain free short stories smashwords.com 1 the neutral 2 the year mom died 3 my dream about mark matt chatelain 's latest release the vostok juncture released jan 2014 when arthur sinclair , chairman of the near bankrupt amcorp , accelerates the schedule to explore lake vostok , buried two miles beneath antarticas icy landscape , his desperate search for gold sets in motion a deadly plan to kill everyone at the station and bring down amcorp .
dealing with sabotage and murder , the station scientists must go to extremes to survive .
things go wrong .
they go very wrong .
the vostok juncture is a bobsled run of a story .
along the way , you 'll encounter unreasonable deadlines , murder , an untested deep sea submarine , death , gold , nasty bacteria , impostors , love , more murders , spies , bombs , snipers , mistrust , quicksand ice , kerosene rivers , saboteurs , even more murders , and desperate amateurs .
twenty four people struggling to solve the mystery of who is who before time runs out .
an interview with the author q can you hint at what we should expect in the next books of the sirenne saga ?
a each book will widen the story out to encompass more history time .
book one covers one hundred years .
book two covers two thousand years , book three covers sixty five million years and book four spans all time .
the story will go further and further away from its start and the characters will evolve significantly .
it 's a rollercoaster ride into the unexpected , built on the history we know and the conspiracies we love .
to get you going , i placed a preview of book two at the end of this novel .
it introduces the first twist to the story .
i tried to write a story you could not anticipate but , to be fair , i placed hints and reveals through the series , telling you exactly where the story is going .
i buried them well so keep a sharp eye out .
q what are you working on now ?
a i have just released my next novel 'the vostok juncture ' .
it is an all out action story , following a team of scientists exploring lake vostok , a huge lake buried two miles beneath the ice in antarctica .
it reads like a bobsled ride , grabbing you and not letting go until the last page .
check for it on most online book sites , or through smashwords.com .
you wo n't be disappointed .
to get you in the mood , i 've placed an excerpt from the vostok juncture at the end of this book .
it should whet your appetite .
q what made you write the vostok juncture ?
a vostok juncture was an interloper .
i had no plans for writing it after the caves of etretat epic series .
i was all set to write the anticorp , my next anticipated novel , but , one night , i watched a documentary , titled the lost world of lake vostok .
by the time it was finished , vostok juncture was born , a flash of crazy story images too strong to be denied .
it had to be written as soon as possible .
q did you see it as a precursor to the anticorp ?
a not at the beginning .
vostok juncture had fantastic possibilities for action .
i 'd also fallen in love with two movies , both called the thing , about men in an antarctic camp , stuck with an alien creature that ate and replaced them one by one .
trust was hard to come by .
there was nowhere to run .
the vostok juncture provided the elements necessary for me to create a similar situation .
the connection to anticorp came as an afterthought .
i was dead set against writing another sequential series .
i wanted each book to be a stand alone read .
my solution was to position the vostok juncture at a specific point in time , within the anticorp storyline .
the two stories are connected but not dependent on each other .
q what made you choose action as the genre ?
a i always liked action stories but never imagined myself as an action writer .
writing and , more importantly , editing the caves of etretat introduced me to the importance of pace .
i chased that concept , sacrificing detail to find it .
the series was an amalgam of genres and action was developed as a counterpoint to balance less energetic scenes .
reviews from readers convinced me they enjoyed the action more than the rest .
this pushed me towards writing a pure action story , where everything else would be in the background .
the result is quite satisfactory , convincing me to keep action as the main genre for other stories .
q the vostok juncture seems straightforward on the surface but is it really ?
a the story is tricky .
i wrote it without flashbacks or time interruptions .
it moves forward unstoppably , following the events in vostok station for about two days , which is what makes it seem straightforward .
however the story itself is inverted , following the antagonists rather than the protagonist .
if you were to push it further , you could say none of the main protagonists are even there in the story .
the megacorps and anticorp are the ones calling the shots but only their proxies are present .
all we really follow is a bunch of peons doing what they were told and hoping to survive .
who can the reader root for ?
q so no hollywood ending then .
is n't that risky in a book ?
a i do n't write books to make readers feel good .
i write books to entertain them .
i believe the only way to do that is to push the envelope .
do n't stick to the usual storylines , twist them around .
add levels of complexity to the story , play games with the readers .
i went to extremes doing that in the caves of etretat series .
strangely , the main issue i explored back then was good versus bad .
is there even such a thing or is it all subjective perception ?
i took four books to answer those questions .
the same issue is addressed here , making readers question long established concepts .
also , for those uncomfortable with my extreme ending , i wrote an alternate ending providing a more 'hollywoody ' outcome .
q are you planning any other books ?
a there is another interloper .
it almost gained the upper hand over vostok juncture .
i fought it off for a year but i long to go back to the 'caves of etretat ' series .
q i thought the series was done .
you certainly ca n't continue that story .
it 's a closed loop .
a you 're right .
however , i can go back and fill in some blanks .
for example , between books one and two , weissmuller , the immortal serial killer , took a two week vacation .
his main reason was to get away from the irritating o'flanahan .
i 've come up with a humdinger of an idea about what an immortal serial killer can get up to in fourteen days .
it should be a blast .
if that one works out , i have a few other weissmuller stories in the back of my mind .
check for it next year .
bonus an excerpt from 'the vostok juncture ' somewhere in the antarctic weaver , wake up and get in here . ''
john weaver , the vostok station mechanic looked around groggily , yawning .
the others were still lying back in their seats .
the wind hammered at the cabin , shaking it with every blow .
weaver stretched , his muscular body outlined through a gray woolen sweater .
at six feet and two hundred fifty pounds , the thirty four year old was a big man .
weaver , you awake ?
hurry up and get in here .
we 've got problems . ''
it was miron , the snowcat driver , calling to him from the front cabin .
he unsnapped his seatbelt and got up , nodding to john nolan , sitting across the aisle from him .
nolan , a lean thirty eight year old man with sandy hair , brown eyes , and a bushy mustache hiding his upper lip , put down a tattered promotional pamphlet about vostok station next to his amcorp travel orders and nodded back noncommittally .
weaver squeezed between the two front seats .
in his haste to get up front , he missed seeing arthur sinclair 's outstretched feet and tripped over them .
watch out , you big oaf , '' snarled the scrawny sinclair .
i 'm a goddamn chairman , not a sack of potatoes you 're peeling . ''
the vostok mechanic 's mouth tightened .
his eyes flashed momentarily to jessica brandon , sitting in the chair across from the amcorp chairman .
the thirty two year old brunette grinned at weaver , her cheery expression complimenting her deep green eyes .
he grinned back , dispelling the tough impression implied by his bald head and the jagged scar on his left cheek .
what the heck are you smiling at ?
the driver needs your help .
get in there and do it , instead of gawking at my bodyguard . ''
weaver ignored the chairman 's comments and climbed through the narrow hatch into the driver 's cabin .
he sat down in the seat beside robert miron , a shaggy haired man in his late thirties .
staring out into the storm , weaver was hypnotised by dizzying bursts of snow and hail flashing across the windshield .
christ .
how can you drive this thing ?
i ca n't see anything out there . ''
tell me about it .
i 've been navigating by gps almost the whole trip . ''
is n't that dangerous ? ''
weaver asked , as he fiddled with the headlights , flicking them on and off a few times before giving up .
of course it 's dangerous but i did n't have any choice .
radar 's useless in this storm . ''
so what 's the problem , miron ? ''
listen , i 'm a substitute driver .
i was recruited in mcmurdo when your regular guy did n't show .
i could n't refuse the job , my debt being what it is .
problem is , i 've never gone to vostok station before and this is my first time in a tucker terra .
i spent time in a simulator but there are limits to those things . ''
weaver shook his head .
it 's just like those disorganized bastards to send a rookie into the worst storm of the century .
go on . ''
the gps conked out about an hour ago . ''
why did it conk out ?
i thought those things were connected to a satellite . ''
they are .
it should n't have stopped working .
i did n't think theodore 's lightning 's was that bad . ''
theodore ? ''
that 's the name the world meteorological organization gave this antarctic cyclone we 're driving through . ''
seems like a stupid name . ''
you 're telling me .
on the other hand , would you want to hang around with someone named theodore ? ''
what 's this got to do with your emergency ? ''
miron swatted sweat soaked hair out of his face , his eyes scanning the vehicle 's digital compass .
sorry , weaver , my nerves are shot .
i 'm lost .
there , i said it .
i hate to admit it but it 's a fact .
i 'm close to the station , i 'm sure of it , but i just ca n't find it .
when the gps failed , i kept driving in the same direction , using the digital compass to keep the heading .
i drove for half an hour more until , by all rights , i should have been right on top of the station but i still did n't see it so i tried driving in a crisscross pattern to find it .
now , i 'm running out of fuel . ''
what ?
how could you make a greenhorn mistake like that ? ''
give me a break , '' exploded miron .
he leaned into weaver , his voice dropping to a whisper .
you know it 's not my fault .
i had filled the tanks .
we had plenty of fuel , even for emergencies .
i 'm not the one who missed the departure time , thus avoiding the storm .
i 'm not the one who ordered us to turn back and go pick up his lordship at mcmurdo station .
and i 'm most certainly not the one who prevented me from refilling the tanks because he was in a hurry . ''
you 're talking about sinclair , '' weaver whispered back .
of course i 'm talking about sinclair .
who else would i be talking about ?
it 's that idiot chairman 's fault and you know it . ''
sorry , miron , i realise you 're doing your best . ''
it has n't been enough .
going at this speed for two days , the snowcat has been guzzling more diesel than expected .
getting lost did n't help . '' ''
fine , i get it .
what do you want me to do ? ''
keep a lookout for the vostok station antenna .
i 'm told it 's pretty tall . ''
yeah , it 's more than a hundred feet high and there are lights all the way to the top . ''
great .
maybe you 'll be able to spot it through the storm . ''
miron checked the compass , using its readings to keep the snowcat aligned while weaver peered out the windshield .
i had my share of tough times after the world plague but my problems began long before 2024 .
i lost both my parents when i was nine , you know .
ended up falling through the cracks .
probably would have died , if it had n't been for old tom .
he lived on the streets , just like me , but old tom had years of experience .
'everybody 's always out for themselves , ' he 'd say .
'if you need something done , you 'd better do it yourself ' .
it 's why i did n't ask for your help sooner .
it goes against the grain . ''
do n't sweat it , miron .
in my experience , problems tend to draw people together .
even if you believe you 're alone against the world , there are four of us depending on you , right now .
if any of us want to survive , we have to work as a team . ''
i guess . ''
the fuel gauge was reading empty .
stop , stop , stop , '' exclaimed weaver .
this is getting us nowhere .
if the fuel runs out , it 's going to be impossible to restart the engine .
we 'll freeze to death in hours . ''
do n't you think i know that ? ''
screamed an exasperated miron .
driving any further is suicide .
we have to refill the fuel tank using diesel from the drums on the trailer . ''
how ?
it 's minus eighty out there .
anyone going out into the storm is likely to get killed . ''
not doing it will guarantee we all die .
put it in neutral and get the engine into the lowest idle possible .
keep it running , whatever you do .
give me the time i need . ''
okay , weaver .
be careful out there . ''
you bet . ''
weaver made his way back to the passenger cabin .
the others had heard everything .
jessica was already at the rear , looking through a suitcase .
her tight fitting service uniform revealed a toned and shapely body .
with a muttered 'yes ' she tugged out ski goggles and handed them to weaver , who was pulling on his parka .
he accepted the pair without a word , his eyes on sinclair , who had n't moved from his chair .
weaver frowned , shaking his head .
he buttoned the parka to the top and covered his mouth and nose with two scarves then adjusted the goggles carefully .
tightening the drawstring , his forehead disappeared under the hood .
jessica examined him for exposed skin .
seeing none , she gave him a thumbs up , her face crisped in concern .
do n't worry , this is a walk in the park , '' weaver said , his voice muffled by the scarves .
the mechanic cautioned jessica and nolan back before opening the door .
they huddled at the rear .
weaver grasped the handle and pushed .
the wind fought him , howling into the cabin and causing the temperature to drop rapidly .
weaver put his shoulder into it , shoving the door open enough to step onto the track .
the door slammed shut with a loud clang , exposing him to intense wind bursts and driving snow .
he kept hold of a rail near the door and tried to head towards the back .
his feet slipped sideways , the wind pulling at his legs viciously .
he dropped to his knees and crawled along on all fours .
near the rear of the tucker terra , he opened a utility box riveted under the cabin floor and retrieved a hand pump attached to a tightly coiled rubber hose .
he slid his arm through the loops of the frozen hose and continued crawling to the end of the track .
the snow reduced visibility to the point where weaver could barely see the trailer .
his goggles were steaming up from the inside , frosting the glass , and his scarf was covered with ice crystals from his breath .
the wind kept snagging at his limbs , making it almost impossible to move .
using his right hand to grope the bottom edge of the snowcat cabin , he located a rail and grasped it , letting himself slide off the end of the tracks .
his feet were swept out from under him and , for a few moments , his body blew back and forth , his handhold the only thing keeping him from flying off .
pulling his limbs in tight to his body , he forced his feet to the ground , dropping between the two tracks .
feeling around , he located the hitch and , wrapping his right arm around it , started moving forward .
reaching the trailer , he stood up , crooking his elbow over the side railing .
a tarp covered the supplies , secured by a nest of frozen ropes .
weaver spotted a diesel drum wedged in the trailer corner and slid to it .
removing his glove , he reached into a pocket and pulled out a small knife , snapping it open .
his exposed hand turning blue , he cut the rope with a quick flick of the wrist .
the tarp soared skyward , flapping in the wind .
climbing onto the trailer , he felt around for the diesel drum cap .
it was frozen solid .
weaver 's numb fingers dropped the knife in the snow .
he cursed , putting the glove on again , and fished for the blade .
blinded by foggy goggles , it took forever to find .
holding it clumsily in his thick glove , he tugged himself back up to the railing and smashed the knife pommel repeatedly against the metal cap .
it did not loosen .
out of desperation , he turned the knife around , aimed the blade at the cap and struck repeatedly .
on the third attempt , the tip of the knife pierced the sheet metal .
after a few more swings , he succeeded in making a jagged hole .
he pawed the blade shut with his gloved hand , inadvertently dropping the knife between the drums .
giving up on the blade , he jammed the hose through the pierced cap into the gelled diesel fuel .
dropping to the ground , he crawled towards the snowcat .
the hose refused to uncoil properly , frozen into a giant spring .
weaver tightened his grip on the hand pump .
coming up against the snowcat , he jerked the coil hard , gaining enough slack for the nozzle tip to reach the fuel intake .
sighing in relief , he squeezed his glove over the fuel cap and twisted but was unable to get a firm grip .
the engine up front was coughing instead of idling .
shaking his head in frustration , he removed the glove again .
the minus eighty degree wind froze the skin on his hand .
ignoring the burning pain , weaver wrenched the fuel cap .
it refused to turn .
he struggled , putting his shoulder into it , the agony in his hand intense .
with a metallic squeal , the cap loosened and came off , stuck to his palm .
he shoved the hand , cap and all , back into his glove , grunting in pain .
inserting the nozzle into the hole , weaver cranked the pump with his good hand .
the mechanism was sluggish but it worked .
the gelled diesel resisted .
weaver kept pumping .
increased resistance in the handle told him diesel was at the nozzle .
he pumped faster , his hand cramping in protest .
the engine coughed hard once and settled into a smooth idle .
he kept working the hand pump for another twenty minutes before letting the coiled hose go .
it snapped back towards the trailer , clanking against the metal frame .
climbing back on the track , he pulled himself forward with his good hand .
the wind was fierce , the blasts shoving him around .
he pushed the tip of his boot in the gap between two of the tracks , curling his toes up to wedge his foot .
hugging the track as best he could , weaver let go of the traction ridge and pushed himself forward , grasping the next ridge .
lifting his foot out from between the tracks , he repeated the manoeuvre until he reached the cabin door .
cradling his hand , he struggled to a standing position .
the door opened unexpectedly , smashing into his face .
weaver 's goggles shattered and he fell back , teetering on the edge of the track .
a hand reached out , grasped his coat , and dragged him inside .
weaver fell into the cabin , his body smacking the floor heavily .
nolan pulled the door shut with a grunt .
the wind died down in the cabin and a relative quiet fell over its occupants .
jessica removed weaver 's frost covered scarf , exposing his face .
my hand ! ''
grimacing , he tugged at his glove , exposing the fuel cap stuck to his palm .
i 'll get some water .
it 'll help remove it . ''
jessica hurried to the galley while nolan assisted the groaning mechanic get out of his coat .
you did it , weaver , you did it , '' screamed miron through the narrow doorway .
i did more than that , miron .
when my goggles were knocked off , i caught a glimpse of the antenna array .
head to your right .
we should be there in minutes , '' croaked weaver .
about the author born in ottawa , fifty five years ago , i have been semi retired since 2005 .
i embarked on the project of writing my first serious novel , which i expanded to a four book series after discovering an incredible mystery hidden within a french author 's books .
my interests are eclectic .
i like quantum physics , cosmology , history , archaeology , science in general , mechanics , free power , recycling and re use .
i 'm a good handyman and can usually fix just about anything .
i 'm good with computers .
i love movies , both good and bad , preferring action and war movies .
i can draw and paint fairly well but am so obsessed with perspective and light that i can not think of much else .
i am too detail oriented .
i have been around books all my life .
in my mid forties , i decided to focus on writing as my future job .
it took me five years to learn the trade .
now i know how fast i can write and how to develop my story and characters .
i always wage an internal war to decide if my next story is going to be a mild mystery or a big stake epic .
so far the big stakes are winning the author 's website contact info find out more about the author and the sirenne saga at his website www.mattchatelain.com on his site , you will find much background information about the series , as well as info about the author 's current projects .
the site also contains material from previous projects and a bio of the author .
the pole of inaccessibility published by a. michael bronston at smashwords copyright 2012 a. michael bronston isbn 9781476358178 this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each recipient .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author .
chapter 1 beardmore glacier camp trans antarctic mountain range dr. susan engen lay hunched over the rough hewn surface of the plywood table , cradled her forehead in her cupped palm , and breathed out an astonishingly descriptive string of obscenities as artfully and with as much conviction as she was capable of providing .
inhaling deeply , she made a vague attempt at calming herself , aware that the effort was in vain , but going through the motion anyway as a matter of habit .
after the interval in which she was supposed to be composing herself had passed , she keyed the microphone again and spoke .
steven , i have no equipment !
she repeated emphatically .
were three weeks behind already , and now i have no equipment !
i heard you the last two times , susan , the voice from the other side said , annunciating the words in such a way as to project the impression that he was attempting to sound reasonable , yet firm in his explanation .
what i am saying is that all the paperwork shows that it did , in fact , ship .
a pencil , which until then had been comfortably reposed in her lightly clenched fist , suddenly snapped , the sound making her jump .
she looked at the broken lead core that lay within the tattered shards of wood as if wondering how it came to be in her hand , let alone to be exploding there .
i know something shipped , she explained as patiently as she could to the gray metal microphone .
it just wasnt mine .
oh , dr. steven atkinson , replied the chief scientist , the point she was making finally having penetrated all the way through .
what did arrive ?
does it matter ?
she asked , exasperated .
she wondered how someone of such supposed brilliance could be so dense when it came to deciphering the obvious .
it does to whomever it belonged to before , he pointed out , contributing a broader perspective .
she resisted the nearly overpowering inclination to provide an appropriate commentary to this extraneous observation with another profanity and settled upon reflection instead .
steven atkinson was the chief scientist that year , a largely ceremonial position to which he was elected by the other pis , or principle investigators .
the national science foundation awarded grant money to the pis , who then put together their projects budgeted by whatever funds had been granted and space arrangements that could be made for them on the continent .
there were to be four pis working at the beardmore glacier camp the summer of 1979 , of which susan engen was one , representing ohio state university .
dr. atkinson was another .
he didnt hold any real power , per se , but he did have influence as far as determining priorities went , and she needed all the help she could get with that right now .
ill send it back .
just try to find mine , please ?
she asked nicely .
when challenged with having to choose between asking for favors sweetly and browbeating obstacles into compliance , it was not always a foregone conclusion which course she would select .
at this moment , she opted for the softer touch .
all right , well try and figure it out , he answered over the airwaves .
thank you , she replied , exaggerating in a heavy tone that was probably wasted on him .
vocal inflection didnt translate well through the static and background noise of the high frequency radio .
she took another deep breath , hoping this time it would help .
when it didnt , she got up and walked around the newly constructed hut toward the heater , where the support crew were all sitting .
they looked as if they were dangerously close to knocking off for the day , but she still had work to do .
are you ready to go ?
she asked her guide , jake , as she pulled on the oversize mittens .
he had been yucking it up with the cook , the weatherman , and the mechanic while she tried to get things straight with dr. atkinson at the main base in mcmurdo .
they had been hard at it , building the hut over the last couple of days and it was a safe bet they considered themselves due for a break .
ready when you are , he confirmed , which helped to settle her nerves somewhat .
she didnt need another fight that day , but was well primed should it come to that .
good , ive lost enough time already , she said with more firmness than was strictly necessary since he had already agreed to going without a struggle .
while jake prepared himself for the outside , susan took the opportunity to take a better look at the wood frame and plywood shelter that would be her base for the next three weeks .
it was spare but serviceable .
there was no insulation , just heat from a stove that vaporized diesel fuel in a barely containable cycle of combustion , a design which had previously been known to make huts like this one spontaneously combust when handled improperly .
a galley it couldnt be a kitchen with so much naval history behind it consisted of a propane stove and some shelves .
some folding tables and chairs filled out the furnishings .
it was still much more than she was accustomed to while in the field .
she hadnt met the three support workers with whom jake had been sitting shed barely had time to exchange a hurried greeting with him .
she looked them over from where she stood by the door .
the weatherman in his navy greens was chewing tobacco and spitting into a beer can , some of the putrid drool clinging to his mustache .
the cook was in a dirty t shirt and sported a rat tail of black hair hanging from the back of his head .
the unkempt appendage that looked like an afterthought was tied up with a pink elastic band that was clearly begging for someone to take exception to it .
the mechanic seemed like a likeable sort , strangely intelligent and reserved , which struck her as odd for someone who would be doing that job in that place .
still , all kinds were drawn there , just to be there .
she would have shoveled horse manure to be there if they had horses and hired people to shovel it .
if she were trying to clandestinely look them over , they showed no such reserve in regard to her .
women were still a rarity in that part of the world , which made her unique enough , but a pi not far removed from her twenties , who wore her long blond hair in a ponytail halfway down a particularly well shaped back , was extraordinary .
they wore the blank looks while checking her out that gentlemen such as these tended to assume when they dont know what to make of a beautiful woman , especially one who seemed so out of place , and just happened to be one of the big wigs .
they were equally subdued by the incongruity of her soft features being the backdrop for her hard eyes .
they were the blue gray of burnished steel , and bore the testimony of a spirit no less firm .
susan climbed on board the snowmobile behind jake and they clipped along at a good rate , covering the short distance from the hut to the base of the mountain .
there they ascended as high as they could before leaving the machine and setting out on foot .
the cold wind felt fresh on her face , which she had purposely left uncovered .
it stung with the sharpness that she knew would lead to frostbite if she ignored it for too long , but it felt so good to finally be out there and on the snow , that she endured it for as long as she could .
although jake was designated as her guide , susan immediately took the lead as they set out , following an exposed outcropping until it ended where a small glacier barred their way .
thats where i want to go , up there , she said , pointing to a small ledge above them .
well lay out this area tonight so the grad students can get started when they arrive without my having to direct them .
whatever you want , jake said obligingly .
thats your department .
it was a small thing , but it was another encouraging sign that her guide would not be turning into a mule while she had work to do .
they stopped to put on crampons pointed steel attachments that were applied to climbing boots to grip the ice and keep the climber from slipping before starting up the slope .
she tightened the straps over the orange plastic boots , and then pulled the cuffs of her heavy nylon wind pants over the boots .
she had previously put aside the standard issue red coat that all the civilians headed for the ice were given in new zealand , and resurrected her old and nearly worn out blue mountaineering parka .
it was more comfortable than anything else she owned , and made her feel like coming home just to put it on .
youre good at this , jake observed , as they ascended the steep sloping glacier .
how do you get to be this good of a climber living in ohio ?
not from ohio , susan answered , kicking steps into the ice and speaking in short clips in keeping with the rhythm of her breaths .
college in boulder , colorado .
we used to climb everything there was back there .
aha , the guide replied , susans answer making perfect sense .
then you dont actually really need me here , do you ?
not so much , she agreed , but the others will .
thats at least one thing off my plate .
besides , the nsf isnt going to let me run around out here without you anyway .
no , i dont imagine they would , the guide agreed .
now that she was on the mountain and nearing the site where she intended to work , susan finally started letting the frustration of losing her boxes of supplies dissipate as she focused on the task at hand .
so how does a rock climbing geologist end up in ohio ?
jake asked as he began setting anchors for safety lines to which they would attach themselves .
the usual way , she explained .
there was a guy .
we went there together .
i was in love with him he was in love with a pretty young student .
when i moved into faculty and it became apparent i wasnt going to remain a pretty young student forever , he stopped being in love with me and found himself a new one .
ouch , jake commiserated .
sorry .
dont be , she said , dismissing his concern .
to tell you the truth , it came as kind of a relief .
its been over for more than a year now and i dont have any regrets .
those kinds of distractions i can do without .
amen , was all the reply that jake seemed to think necessary .
so whats your story ?
susan asked .
me ?
witness protection must have gotten a little carried away .
i think theyve gone too far this time .
is that right ?
susan inquired , laughing .
absolutely , jake said , unconvincingly .
actually , im a climbing guide in the tetons .
taking the winter off .
came here to get warm ?
susan asked him , enjoying the banter .
youve obviously never been to jackson hole in the winter , he said .
this is warm .
susan worked rapidly , frenetically almost , as if trying to make up for lost time .
she recognized the strangeness of working at such a pace on rocks that took millions of years to form , the incongruity manifest .
but after five years of applying for grants , to finally be awarded a six week window that summer , and having to watch three of them slip away while waiting for the weather to break , she was determined to salvage what was left of the season .
and then they lose her equipment .
good god !
what next , she wondered ?
five years she had spent at the byrd polar research facility at ohio state waiting for this chance .
she never thought she could do anything for five years .
and now it came down to this a three year grant .
not that she had three years .
the department chair was coming open and that was this year the only year .
it could be decades before that happened again , and a decade wasnt a time frame that she was prepared to wait .
susan engen was on as fast a track as tracks get .
she had to get this research done this season , get the paper published , and be given that chair .
it had seemed like a reasonable plan .
but then , who could have predicted that there would be a three week storm and that her crates would disappear ?
what are we looking for ?
jake persisted in asking questions now that he had nothing to do but watch her work and make sure she didnt fall off the mountain .
rocks , she told him , without looking up from her notebook .
okay , he said , the point being taken .
i can be quiet now .
sorry , she said , looking up with a mischievous smirk .
everybody gets that one once .
couldnt help myself .
but in the simplest terms , were mapping the geology .
what there is , where it iswith a twist .
what kind of a twist ?
that , you are just going to have to read about in the papers .
as she finished laying out the florescent yellow tape that marked the areas where she wanted her grad students to focus , susan thought about what she had just said to jake .
she sounded much more confident than she felt .
as if her plans werent grand enough already , there was more .
much more , which even the nsf didnt know about .
when she had submitted her request for her grant , the proposal suggested that there might be mineral deposits in the area where they were working .
she was pretty sure there would be .
and while that information might be considered academic and interesting to some , she knew that it was only a matter of time before there would be those who found it more than merely academic .
it was her intention to preempt any plan to get at the vast wealth that she knew would be there by forcing the issue , making the discovery , and driving the political battle to guarantee that it could never be touched .
the mechanism for that campaign was already in place and awaiting her discovery .
with luck , that would begin at the same time that she took over the department , a position from which she would have a global platform to enlist the scientific community to her side .
the enormity of her own plan dwarfed her , so much so that it seemed unreal , as if it were the memory of a story she had heard somewhere else , a long time ago .
in moments of supreme confidence , which were actually most of them , she saw straight through to the end with no obstacles to bar her way .
then , at other moments , it all seemed so impossible .
but those didnt last for long .
she was committed .
it would all work out as planned .
as long as nothing else went wrong .
chapter 2 mcmurdo station ross island , coast of antarctica is there a dr. atkinson here ?
the fatigue clad figure in the doorway asked , looking at his clipboard .
im steven atkinson , the doctor answered , peering over the top of his reading glasses .
you wanted to find out about some freight ?
the soldier asked .
while the navy had owned the antarctic program from its inception , the other branches of the military had , over time , gotten the opportunity to become involved in the operation .
in this case , the army managed cargo .
that is correct , said dr. atkinson .
its definitely all there , the cargo specialist assured him .
its definitely all where ?
dr. atkinson asked , more confused than ever .
on the cargo line , sir .
nothings lost .
as far as the cargo specialist was concerned , that should have settled everything .
now wait just a minute here , dr. atkinson said , clapping shut the book he was reading and becoming agitated .
i saw the manifest myself .
it showed everything as being shipped !
dr. steven atkinson was not , generally speaking , an overly excitable person , but things that refused to make sense were anathema to his well ordered , analytical mind and he would have none of it .
that was an old one , sir , the cargo specialist explained .
the new one shows that it got bumped .
bumped ?
by whom ?
dr. atkinson demanded to know .
i cant tell you that , sir , but i can tell you what went .
it belongs to a lieutenant .
richards , the cargo specialist said , looking again at his clipboard .
he was trying to be patient and accommodating , as evidenced by the use of the word sir , which was not applied in a military context in antarctica .
we dont have a lieutenant .
richards , dr atkinson told the soldier , even more agitated than before .
well , the specialist told him as he made his way out the door , it sure looks like you do now .
dr. atkinson zipped up his stiff new red parka and walked out of the prefab building where he was berthed while transiting mcmurdo .
it was only a few short steps from his building to the nsf headquarters , and his boots made a scrunching sound as they pulverized the volcanic ash underfoot to an even finer powder .
he walked with the gait of a man who had done a great deal of walking in his time , most of it right there in antarctica .
he had been there every summer since the international geophysical year , the largest cooperative scientific venture ever , in which the nations involved in the igy established permanent bases on the continent .
that was in 1956 .
for twenty three years , he had continued to come , and he was , by a wide margin , the elder statesman of the united states antarctic program .
the building that served as headquarters was an a framed timber construction that looked like a mountain cabin and possessed a moderate amount of charm , a quality of which all the other edifices on station were notably devoid .
the base was made up of an assortment of sheet metal walled buildings , green tent jamesway structures that looked like canvas quonset huts , and modular prefabs that were assembled on site .
the headquarters was known simply as the chalet .
he strode past the administrative assistant towards the office of the program director , where he was accustomed to entering without the formality of being announced .
the assistant , who was new , asked him on his way past if there was anything that she could help him with .
when he didnt stop to acknowledge her , she jumped up and chased him into the office , calling for him to wait .
its all right , marsha , the director said to his flustered assistant , who retired with that assurance .
dr. atkinson waited for her to leave and then took a second liberty by slamming shut the door .
who , arthur , he inquired with all the professorial haughtiness he possessed , is this lt. richards ?
dr. arthur fredricks , director of polar programs for the national science foundation , sighed heavily .
how did you hear ?
he asked .
i havent heard .
all i know is that i have one very unhappy grantee out in the field and the source of that unhappiness appears to be linked to a lt. richards .
is there something youve been waiting to tell me ?
the director took off his glasses and commenced with a chewing operation directed towards one of the earpieces .
he leaned back in his chair that squealed from the weight on ancient springs , looking at dr. atkinson for a long moment .
steven , i think you had better sit down .
dr. atkinson returned to the building next door with a far slower step and a decidedly more somber countenance .
he rubbed his clean shaven chin as he walked .
unlike many who came to the wilderness and forsook the niceties of dress and appearance , dr. atkinson was of the old school of explorers .
it would take more than living in a tent high up on an icy mountain in sub zero temperatures to keep him from shaving .
it was a matter of order and discipline .
merely a boardinghouse for those who were passing through , by the entrance there was a small lounge where the two other pis destined for the beardmore glacier were engaged in a round of cribbage .
while susan engen and dr. atkinson were geologists , the other two , dr. daniels and alistair adams , would be searching for meteorites .
daniels would be covering broad reaches of territory high onto the polar plateau , looking for large chunks atop the ice .
alistair , on the other hand , would be sifting through dust and finding miniscule bits of extraterrestrial matter .
dr. daniels was older than dr. atkinson , being seventy one years old compared to dr. atkinson who weighed in at 68 , and if he hadnt been at it in antarctica as long as atkinson , he was still far past the next most tenured person to follow .
he had a long white beard , a wiry , active looking frame , and deep set eyes of pale blue that receded into hollows that bore testimony to many austral summers .
alistair adams was much younger british , glib , and according to dr. daniels , more than a little insane .
daniels attributed this to his being part of the british program , which required its personnel to stay on the ice two full years per contract .
the americans maxed out at one , and for many , that was altogether too much .
alistair had spent nearly as much time on the ice in his two years as daniels had in the last ten .
it was the winters , daniels thought .
the winters ate you up .
why so glum ?
alistair asked , looking towards dr. atkinson .
what ?
dr. atkinson responded , looking up quickly .
me , glum ?
no , i was merely thinking .
you should try and do less of it then , alistair advised him , counting the hand and moving the pegs .
it wouldnt appear as if it agrees with you .
alistair and dr. daniels had been sitting in the lounge drinking coffee and playing cards , watching the day get underway for those with jobs to do .
their work was just about finished there wasnt much else they could do .
what was left to do was being done by the grad students .
for the next two days , they would have little to do but wait .
it was the worst part of the season for all three of them .
they each possessed active minds , and equally active temperaments , else none would be where they were .
alistair seemed to be taking the wait the best , which in and of itself was enough for dr. daniels to establish doubts upon his mental state which he did .
oh , one learns to take the long view , alistair said wistfully at first , before turning garrulous , though perhaps a little facetious at the same time .
winter is quite nice , really .
it is a fair time for reflection of all things mortal .
it is the very glass upon which one can see the light of their soul shining back at them .
it is a vigil that can be reckoned by the fortnight , and , therefore , that much more beneficial to ones soul .
peaceful .
like being dead , dr. daniels said in response to alistairs soliloquy .
he wasnt trying to malign alistairs experience it was rather that he dreaded that sort of confinement in the dark and cold for so long .
he shuddered .
dr. atkinson settled into an armchair quietly , apparently going over schedules for summer operations , leaving the two to carry on the conversation .
i had fun , alistair said , shrugging it off .
well , im just here to do my work , and then go home , dr. daniels declared with finality .
i hope you do it well , atkinson said , taking an interest now .
youll have some competition this year .
what do you mean ?
dr. daniels asked .
dr. atkinson held up the page in his hand .
i have been reading this manifest of all the projects in our area this year , not just our own , but everyones .
it seems the russians are planning a trip to our general vicinity , looking for meteorites .
dr. daniels lifted a shoulder .
it doesnt matter .
the area has not been overly explored as it is .
since were all required to make our findings available to all treaty nations , then it can only help .
i welcome the assistance .
i really am here only for the data .
alistair smiled .
really ?
after all these years ?
what do you expect to find that you havent found already ?
that which i havent already found and dont already know , dr. daniels said with unaffected sincerity .
i really would welcome their help .
humph , alistair commented , unconvinced .
never worked with the russians , have you ?
a little , yes , dr. daniels replied .
i found them quite likeable .
really ?
alistair wondered aloud .
whod have thought ?
i suppose i should like to give them a try , though , if im ever given the chance .
well , dr. atkinson said to the others , it wont be this year .
from what i can tell , they will be outside of the perimeter that you have recorded as your area .
maybe next year .
next year ?
alistair repeated aghast , before stating pointedly , there will not be a next year .
of that i can assure you .
did they clear up the cargo snafu ?
dr. daniels asked , changing the subject .
yes , they did , dr. atkinson said , seeming to sink further into his chair .
it appears to have been a simple error .
good , dr. daniels said .
susan will be happy to hear it .
yes , dr. atkinson said , looking once again , as alistair had pointed out , very glum indeed .
shes going to be very happy .
mcmurdo station was situated on the edge of ross island , a mountainous volcanic spire , rising from the ice , and capped with broken glaciers .
it was adorned with an eternal plume , emanating from the uppermost peak , where fissures leading to the earths core breathed their sulfuric sighs .
the base was exposed to both sea and ice , and was abused in turns from each quarter , an uncomfortable and inhospitable abode .
it was a rough place that demanded that its inhabitants be hearty , a sentiment that many of those same inhabitants felt obliged to impress upon newcomers , as a matter of tradition .
one of those newcomers sat at a desk at the naval operations command post , looking over a dossier .
his navy greens appeared crisp and trim , a dead giveaway that he was recently arrived from the world .
if they were fortunate enough to get washed in the coming weeks in the field , they would come to lay on his frame in a much more subdued manner .
his martial air was belied by his mild countenance , which appeared almost whimsical , as he gazed with soft brown eyes transfixed upon the picture in his hand .
that her ?
the captain asked , looking over his shoulder .
yes .
yes it is , lt. richards replied .
i guess you could have drawn worse duty than having to cozy up to that , the captain said jocularly .
for an instant , the lieutenant bristled at the meaning implied in his new commanders jest , but he reminded himself that this was only a picture that he had been looking at , and navy men would say what they said after all .
besides , you didnt call out the captain because you didnt like what he said about some womans picture .
havent met her yet , he said .
but yes , she does look nice .
well , shes not , the captain said .
from what i hear , she keeps a shit list a mile long , and youre about to become a strong candidate for promotion to the top spot .
its not going to be easy getting information out of her .
well see , the lieutenant said .
sure .
just see fast , okay ?
this rat hole on the edge of the universe suddenly just became a whole bunch of peoples favorite topic .
the days of making sure the penguins are happy are over .
im going to need results , rapidly .
the captain then left him there , continuing to stare at the picture .
he knew that he had a mission , and he knew what it meant .
but looking at the photograph , clipped from an old newspaper article , he felt like he could see right through to her , and what was more , he saw her looking back .
while the lieutenant indulged himself in flights of fantasy directed toward the picture of the subject of his mission , an aircraft was inbound into mcmurdo carrying susan engens two grad students who would be assisting her in the field during the season .
it had been circling ross island attempting to land , but the weather had deteriorated to the point that the pilot was unable to gain the visual reference required to be able to put the c 130 down on the ice .
after the third go round , the co pilot informed her that she was out of fuel , a circumstance that had not altogether avoided her notice , and faced with the choice of running out of gas somewhere over the sea ice and making a blind landing where she suspected the ski way was , she decided to just put the bird down and hope for the best .
the groomed ski way was lined with wooden markers on either side , but since the pilot couldnt see them in the whiteout , she decided to make an open field landing running parallel to the strip .
the upside was she wouldnt slam into a series of wooden billboards at a hundred and forty miles per hour .
the downside was she that would be dropping the skis onto an unprepared surface of unknown quality , the effect of which had previously been known to tear the ski clad landing apparatus clean off the fuselage of planes like hers .
the loadmaster was told to inform the passengers to prepare for impact , and at her direction , they piled all of the hand carry personal bags against the bulkhead as a cushion should the aircraft go in hard , and the passengers go ballistic within the frame .
the eight tons of cargo that would be following them into the bulkhead was studiously ignored , there being nothing anyone could do about it anyway .
having taken the four engine turbo prop airplane out over the ice shelf as far as she dared , she turned and took a long , low approach , attempting to bleed off as much speed as possible , while leaving a safe margin to avoid stalling .
but as they passed the strip , she was still higher and faster than she wanted to be , and found herself heading back out to sea over the ice .
got ta put her down !
the co pilot said , the steady tone she was reaching for devolving into a shriek .
i know !
the pilot shouted back , but then added , screw it !
and dropped the aircraft onto the ice .
the shock was reported through the airplane with a crack that rang like an explosion , but the structure held and the engines were thrown into full reverse as they skid to a stop , crashing through the waves of snow that drifted over the sea ice .
the pilot turned the forward ski as the ship slowed to taxi speed in a wide arcing turn to make the return trip back to the airfield , when one by one , the engines sputtered to a stop , the last of the fuel having been exhausted .
you girls done playing around out there ?
the captains voice asked over the radio .
that the skipper ?
the co pilot asked .
yeah , its the old bastard , the pilot said on the intercom , knowing already the grief she was in for .
the first all female crew to fly into antarctica was bound to meet with some sort of adventure to mark the occasion , as well as what promised to be never ending ribbing from their male counterparts .
thats a firm , she replied .
were down .
good .
now hurry up and get the hell back here .
thats a negative , she said in the matter of fact cheerful voice that was used for routine radio communications .
you want us , youre going to have to come get us .
sir .
there was a pause before a new voice came on and said , roger that .
we are calling triple a right now .
have a nice day , ladies .
it was going to be merciless .
inside the cargo bay of the c 130 , the passengers sat in silence .
connie , the dark haired , hazel eyed research assistant from ohio state , stared wide eyed and with open mouth at her travelling companion , walt , who was susan engens senior grad student .
since it was clear they werent going anywhere quick , walt unclipped the seatbelt and headed for a window to look around .
there wasnt much to see , so he climbed up onto one of the pallets of cargo and settled in for a nap .
connies heart was still pounding she shook her head in wonder at walts seeming indifference to their near death experience , and she started to talk with the other passengers , recounting the events in the way that people do once the danger has passed .
eventually , a caterpillar d 8 showed up and towed the disgraced bird back to mcmurdo .
when the aircraft was secure , the passengers were loaded onto the lumbering personnel carriers that took them from the airstrip to the chalet for their orientation on the continent .
walt was still half asleep , and connie nudged him from time to time when his head rolled back and he began to snore .
dr. fredricks ran through his welcome speech , which did not help in the effort of keeping walt awake .
the captain ran through the list of prohibited activities , which was impressive in its length .
he was nearly finished when one item caught walts attention , and he opened one eye .
and under no circumstances is anyone to go out onto the sea ice with the intention of skiing , whale watching , or fishing .
walt now opened the other eye and looked at connie .
i didnt know you could do that , he said .
you cant .
he just said that is what you cant do .
he wouldnt have said you cant do it , if it couldnt be done , walt explained rationally .
oh no , connie said , seeing that a plan was formulating in walts head .
dont even think about it .
too late .
lets go , he said as the group was dismissed .
this is dumb , connie said to walt .
it was later in the day after they dropped their gear at the rooms they would be occupying .
it was her way of concealing for both of them how crazy she was about him finding fault with all his pranks , while at the same time , being thrilled to be included .
what if we get caught ?
what if we fall through ?
what if dr. engen finds out ?
youve heard her spout about civil disobedience shed probably give us a medal .
i dont think this is what she was talking about .
sure it is .
were resisting authority .
oh brother , now ive heard it all .
before coming to collect connie , walt managed to raid the bio lab where he stole a fishing pole , commandeered an alpine snowmobile from the navy , and purloined a case of beer from the back of the mechanics shop , where it was carelessly stationed in anticipation of the weekly safety meeting that was scheduled for later that day .
he also took a cooler for the beer , in order to keep it from freezing on the trip across the ice .
it was easy to follow the tracks to the hut on the ice where the antarctic cod were harvested for research , and there was a large hole carved out of the ice within the confines of the hut for that purpose .
walt cracked open a beer and baited the hook .
within minutes , there was a tug on the line and he reeled in the cod to the mouth of the hole .
as he lifted the fish through the hole , the water in the opening burst through in a sudden wave , drenching the two .
following the wave , came a wide open mouth full of enormous teeth , especially the canines , which reached for the now airborne cod that landed in connies lap .
the leopard seals mouth followed the flying fish toward connie , until its massive body got stuck in the hole in the ice , though the teeth continued to snap in an effort to get at the slimy creature flopping between her knees .
she screamed as she tumbled over backwards , while walt picked up the chair he was sitting in and smashed it over the seals head .
the seal , now seriously angry , lunged at walt once , before slipping back through the hole in the ice .
get me the hell out of here !
connie yelled at walt , once the seal was gone , the thrill of the adventure having fully dissipated over the last seconds .
okay , okay , lets go , he said without resisting , knowing instinctively that she had a perfectly valid grievance , and that it would not do to argue with her .
he stole a blanket from the shelf and wrapped connie in it for the trip back , which helped to mollify her , slightly .
along the path that the alpine followed back toward mcmurdo , there were several seals , not leopards , but weddells , enjoying the relative warmth of the sun on the ice .
far more docile than leopards , the weddells moved slowly on the surface of the ice , and looked cute and cuddly to human observation , especially the pups .
a mother and her pup were situated by a reasonably large opening in the ice for that early in the summer , and connie cheered up after her ordeal , looking at them .
isnt that beautiful ?
she reflected in an awed whisper to walt , who was relieved to have her calmed down .
yes it is .
as he was agreeing with her on the magnificence of the sight , the head of a killer whale silently lifted out of the water in a perfectly vertical motion , looking at what was on top .
it then disappeared as silently as it had come .
wow !
connie observed , thrilled .
thats incredible !
before walt could agree with her , the whale appeared again , only this time it burst violently from the water , its full massive bulk breaching the surface , before crashing down on top of the mother and baby seal .
it grabbed the screaming pup in its front teeth as the ice exploded in every direction , the wave sending cracks in the sea ice radiating outwards .
one of the splits headed right for the alpine where the two students were watching .
it moved in slow motion with a pop , pop , pop sound as the opening got closer .
oh , shit !
walt said , while starting the engine and dropping the shifter into gear , just as the ice beneath them began to give way .
he gunned the throttle and sped away as fast as the alpine could accelerate .
connie didnt have time to react to this latest misadventure before they were out of harms way , but she looked back toward the opening in the ice , where another whale had appeared .
the two killer whales were playing tug of war with the baby seals bloody carcass while the distraught mother barked piteously .
there was neither a quiet , nor invisible way to return the alpine to where it was taken from , but walt tried to act as covertly as he could in appearing nonchalant while parking the machine .
by the time the engine stopped , they were surrounded and frog marched into the antechamber outside the captains office .
dr. fredricks was already there .
send em home , the captain said , lighting a cigar just to irritate the director .
rules are rules , and thats the only punishment weve got for rule breakers .
i know , dr. fredricks said , but theres just one problem .
whats that ?
they work for susan engen .
the captain groaned .
youre shittin me , right ?
im afraid not .
they are all the help shes got .
great .
so weve got to keep them ?
the captain asked , though the answer was obvious .
the answer was so obvious that dr. fredricks didnt bother to answer .
okay , then , the captain said , resignedly .
send them in on your way out .
ill explain the rules to them a second time .
an up close and personal explanation from the captain was usually all that it took for anyone to get their attitude properly adjusted , and to understand his expectations in full .
chapter 3 beardmore glacier camp trans antarctic mountain range susan engen lay in her down sleeping bag inside the green domed tent and looked at her watch .
it was confirmed , morning .
the first night in the field was always restless it would take her some time to grow accustomed to the new environment .
the twenty four hours of glaring sun didnt help .
she knew she was overtired as well the adrenaline of finally being able to get to work kept her going well into the night .
she almost felt bad about keeping jake out so late , but he bore it well and didnt complain .
shed try to make it up to him today .
she looked around the tent to survey where she had left her clothes and boots .
once she unzipped the bag , she did not want to let what warmth she had accumulated through the night dissipate while looking for her frozen socks .
when she had all her moves pretty well laid out , she tore out of the bag and pulled everything on as quickly as she could , before beating a hasty track toward the hut in the hope that there would be coffee .
she found jake inside , mug steadily in hand , studying a map of the complex of mountains in their immediate vicinity .
she poured a cup for herself and joined him .
he was looking longingly at the peaks surrounding them .
want to have some fun ?
she asked him .
doctor , he answered , in a scandalized tone , we hardly know each other .
very funny .
i was planning on doing some high altitude work right she said , looking and pointing at the map , here .
if you want , we can go for the top after that .
as far as i know , no one has ever climbed it .
he looked up at her to see if she was joking .
serious ?
he asked , still uncertain if she was pulling his leg .
absolutely .
dont get too worked up , though .
it looks like an easy hike .
she thought that might make a difference to him .
a first ascent , however , was a first ascent , and there was no way he was going to miss the chance .
im in , he answered .
you sure you can spare the time ?
until the equipment shows up , all ive got is time , she told him .
any news ?
he asked .
they said it was just a mistake .
sent the wrong stuff , she said , frowning .
hmm , he said , as if questioning the reply .
what ?
she asked him .
the labels on the boxes were addressed to our camp .
i just figured they sent some other projects stuff early .
they may have , she told him , but they said that it wasnt supposed to come at all .
they could still have it screwed up .
that wouldnt be any big surprise .
true , he agreed .
when we get back ill take a closer look at whats there , she said , ready to forget about it .
for now , i just want to see if this coffee is going to kick in .
then lets get going .
they crossed 12,000 feet after a short break , where they stopped for a rest and some quick refreshment that amounted to nothing more than some water and cheese and crackers .
above them was the summit , another hour of climbing or so , and as susan had predicted , it was easy going , requiring no technical skills .
neither of them cared too much at that point .
just getting the chance to be there and take away a first was enough for them .
susan looked out over the glaciers as they climbed .
she could see well over the polar plateau onto the seemingly endless ice cap .
the geologist in her had dreamed of this moment for so long it was hard to take it all in .
and , as if it werent enough to look at the sight that so few had ever seen , still she saw more .
what she saw when she looked out over the plateau were the savannas of the ancient gondwanaland super continent , drifting about for millions of years before cataclysmic collisions with other land masses caused a lifting of tectonic plates , driving the deeply buried formations thousands of feet into the air to where they stood .
she saw this piece , a new continent all its own , spinning off to the bottom of the world , where it would become buried under miles of ice .
never mind that it all happened at the breakneck speed of seventy millimeters per year .
in her mind , she could see it happening in seconds , in real time .
as they approached the peak , jake , who was in the lead , stopped and looked back at her .
she understood the question in his movements .
go ahead , she called ahead .
sure ?
he asked , just to be sure .
yes , go , she repeated .
he turned and walked the remaining steps to the peak .
once established there , he took off his pack and got his camera ready before susan arrived .
it seemed only fair that if he got to be first on top , at least her arrival should be recorded for posterity .
nice , he said approvingly at the broad smile that came out just in time for the shutter .
it would be one of those heroic looking snapshots that become treasures .
here , she said , reaching for the camera .
let me do you now .
again with these shameless advances , he said , feigning disapproval as he pulled on his anorak .
she could see a pattern emerging and decided right then that she had better either be more guarded with her choice of words or start honing her game and give back as good as she got .
watching her words was not something that was likely to happen , and jake was as yet unaware that he was taking up a challenge to which he might not be equal .
it was clear , at least , that working with this particular guide would not be lacking for amusement .
she decided to let it go for now , and nail him later .
he stood with his back towards the polar plateau while she focused the camera .
she snapped the shot , but continued to look past him into the distance , choosing to ignore his provocative remarks this time .
what do you make of that ?
she asked .
he turned to look .
looks like a fog bank , he said .
fog ?
she asked , doubtingly .
i know , he said .
its not fog .
wind .
there must be a storm out there .
that cant be good , susan said .
how long do you think it will take to get here ?
well , he said , doing the mental calculation , assume it is moving around twenty miles per hour , and thats a pretty good clip .
how far is it to over there ?
susan looked again .
her experience at mapping geology had made her fairly accurate when it came to judging distances .
she guessed forty miles .
two hours then , for the ground blizzard .
well get hit here first .
right , she agreed .
weve been climbing for five .
very good , he said as if he were the professor and she the student .
and that leaves us ?
not enough time .
they increased their pace from leisurely to rapidly , but not urgently .
they were reasonably well prepared , and the mountain itself was not dangerous to descend .
time and temperature were the issues that would have to be dealt with .
it had been a comfortable minus ten or so in the sun while they climbed .
by the time they would be halfway down , they would be engulfed in clouds with wind chills approaching minus one hundred .
climbing down was in many ways more difficult than going up .
muscles resisted gravity in static effort .
while they were climbing up , the work was aerobic , blood was pumped through the body , and oxygen burned hotly .
the resulting warmth pervaded every pore .
the opposite took place while going down .
heat was drawn from their bodies .
muscles became stiff from the tension .
wind and cold only speeded up the process .
they were fortunate the climb had not been especially technical , and they walked as quickly as they could , trying to maintain a level of exertion .
they were sure that they could return to camp before the wind and cold would win the battle against increasing fatigue , when their bodies would not be able to produce heat faster than the storm devoured it .
there was no doubt that there was a point when the environment could win there always was , but they were confident it would not be that day .
soon after they had begun the descent , mares tails , cloud formations that were mere wisps of cirrus whose curved and feathered shapes denoted high winds aloft , began to streak across the sky , reaching out ahead of the tempest like the blowing snow streams on the ground .
there was no longer any question about it being a low level disturbance they were in for a major storm from the birthplace of weather , the polar plateau .
there were several snow covered pitches they had climbed earlier that needed to be crossed before they could get back on rock and shale .
they had been easy to negotiate in the still air boots kicked steps into the hard crust easily and firmly .
it hadnt been necessary to rope and belay on the climb up .
it became clear on the first one of these , though , that going down was not going to be so easy .
the wind was already at a solid forty miles per hour and it required some degree of effort to keep upright on hard ground .
they would certainly be blown off their footing on the hard ice .
since they were expecting an easy climb , they did not bring an excess amount of hardware along .
a couple of snow stakes were all that they had for anchors , which was fine , but susan found herself wishing that they had an abundance of those .
if that were the case , they could just set the anchor , lower the rope , and then , using a figure of eight , self belay to the ends of the rope .
then they could just pull down the rope , leave the anchor , and set another one .
it was a messy way to climb and bad form , but in those conditions , it could be excused .
besides , they could always go back and retrieve them later .
because of the fact that they only had the two stakes , there was no choice but to belay each other over each snowfield .
the person on top would pound in the stake , attach their body to it through slings and carabineers tied to their climbing harness then they would let out the rope , while the other negotiated the distance .
when the climber reached the end of the rope , they would place the other stake , secure to it in the same fashion as the climber above , and then take in the rope , while the other person made their way down .
this process took them four times as long as it would have if it was not necessary , and it required one person to sit stationary in the weather .
they began to cool off much faster than they had first anticipated .
the warm glow underneath the parkas was rapidly replaced by the deepening cold , where confidence can quickly turn to doubt .
the ground blizzard on the glacier had reached the face of the mountain that they were still far up upon .
the wind drove the snow up the rock face and over the ridge .
the fine powder of the driven snow crusted on frozen goggles making visibility difficult .
this is where it begins to get interesting , susan mused .
vision reduced , fingers freezing , core temperature dropping , decision making starts to become difficult .
in high alpine climbing , there is what is known as the dead zone , where the time that a human can survive is limited .
the altitude on this mountain was not that high , though the temperature and conditions at the bottom were roughly equivalent to the peak of everest on a bad day , except for the altitude .
by the time they reached the final ice field that required roping , susan was beginning to become seriously concerned .
she put her hands on either side of jakes head and turned his face toward her so she could observe closely for exposed and frozen flesh .
she didnt see any .
do you see any on me ?
she had to yell at the top of her voice to be heard .
no , jake yelled back , shaking his head emphatically .
what about feet and hands ?
susans feet were numb , but there was numb and numb .
her toes had been frost nipped before and they hurt now just enough for her to know that they were still alive and would hurt a lot more when they thawed out .
fingers were starting to get bad , but the pain was reassuring .
as long as they hurt , they were still all right .
okay .
good , jake yelled , head bobbing up and down , giving a thumbs up .
through the layers of hats and hoods , susan could tell he was smiling underneath .
the increasing seriousness of the situation had made his day .
they had just had a first ascent of an antarctic peak , but susan knew that since it had been a day hike in the conditions they had climbed in , the potential glory that jake should have been able to feel was qualified , at best .
a first ascent , but with an asterisk by it noting that a child could have done it .
now , he could feel like it was earned .
susan loved this about climbing , about climbers , and missed it being in ohio , of all places .
jake was like so many of her friends back in colorado .
they all seemed to want to take these moments with them into the rest of their lives .
it was too bad it didnt work that way .
defining moments were more often just moments that passed and didnt define anything but that one moment , certainly not the future .
there was no carry over .
jake reminded her of them in seeming to think that if he could achieve an extraordinary accomplishment , he would remain in that extraordinary state .
there was something quixotic and romantic about it doomed quests that had to be pursued even when the outcome was certain .
susan began to move over the ice field .
the wind was up to a steady fifty by then , with gusts over seventy .
it was slow going .
the anchor was solid enough that they could have leaned on it and walked backwards , rappelling down the slope , but it wasnt necessary and many climbers , of whom she was one , only liked to rappel when it was impossible to down climb .
one trusted their life to too many things that were not under their control .
she chose to walk .
stepping down the steep slope , her knees were bent , like she was sitting in a chair .
she used her ice axe as if it were a cane , and she , an old codger , merely crossing the street .
it felt as awkward as it looked , certainly nothing heroic .
she was near the end of the pitch when an unusually strong wind gust caught the backpack she was carrying and threw her balance off , which allowed the toe of one crampon to catch on the ice , tripping her over her own feet .
she would distinctly remember after it was over , while she was still head over heels in the air before the impact , how stupid it must have looked .
when she did hit , it was on her left shoulder .
she screamed once and then rolled back to an upright position when the rope caught because jake had her on a tight belay .
she knew the second of impact that there definitely was damage .
she hoped it was just tendons and not bone .
all right ?
jake shouted from above , concern strong in his voice .
i think so , she called back , but the words were devoured by the roar of the wind .
as soon as she could get oriented in the whiteout conditions and figured out which way was up , she found her footing and traversed back across the slope so that jake could have a straight descent in the fall line .
she gingerly hammered in the stake and attached the belay , waving up the hill to him to start .
keeping the rope tight , but not pulling on it , was difficult with one good arm .
the last thing she needed now was to yank him off his feet by taking in the rope too quickly .
jake arrived without incident , and quickly coiled the rope .
he tied it onto his pack so they wouldnt have to waste any more time .
let me see , jake said , reaching to help her take off her pack .
no , she said .
not here .
lets just go .
are you sure ?
jake asked .
its another hour till we get back to camp .
up to it ?
of course im up to it .
is there an alternative ?
susan asked .
just being polite , he said , relieved that she wasnt seriously hurt .
the mixture of humor and bravado was designed to help her buck up for the return trip .
it worked .
get the hell going and shut up !
she told him .
ill follow you .
susan quickly became aware that she must have landed on her head , as well , since every step resonated from her frozen feet up through her shoulder , where it rang like a bell in her ears .
by the time they got to where they unhooked their crampons , she was starting to have vertigo .
she would remember little more of the last hour of the journey back to camp than a feeling like swimming .
the whiteout conditions made walking feel like she was swimming in milk , in a space suit , against the current .
when they arrived back at the camp , the two unpacked and put the equipment away in their proper places before going in , despite the pain , because that was how it was done .
the blizzard followed them through the door , and then they were left standing in the hut .
they began the process of peeling off their frozen wind pants and parkas .
susan sat by the fire trying to get warm while jake did his best to figure out what damage was done to her shoulder .
they had no doctor at the small camp , but he was trained as a paramedic , which allowed the expedition to not be assigned a navy corpsman as would normally be the protocol .
there wasnt much he could do other than to confirm what susan already knew .
no broken bones plenty of bruised and torn ligaments .
the question that it came down to was this stay and bear the pain , or be evacuated on the next flight ?
that was no question at all .
jake , in his role of medic , also had the authority to dispense drugs which , he cheerfully pointed out , was a dangerous precedent .
he was , in turn , informed that if she needed those drugs and they were gone as the result of a recreational boondoggle , he , himself , would in all probability die at susans hand , bad arm or no .
even though he made light of her predicament , he was concerned .
you really do need to consider , susan , he said .
how are you going to be able to work like this ?
with one arm practically useless , it isnt going to be easy .
well , i guess you may end up serving a purpose after all , she told him before adding quickly , and it isnt going to be for that , either .
he was charmed with how she caught on so quickly .
darn , he answered .
but youre the doc , doc .
its your call .
susan smiled from one corner of her mouth , appreciating what he was doing .
for all his banter and innuendo , he wasnt really making a serious effort at finagling his way into her long johns .
by keeping what could have ended up being an uncomfortable situation light and in the forefront , his exaggerated flirtations dispelled any tension that could have built up and caused a disruption in their working relationship .
it was disarming in a way that almost had the opposite effect it was , in a strange way , attractive .
but she meant what she said she didnt need the distraction .
not now .
good .
im glad we were able to get that straight .
now go see if there is a packing slip on those crates out on the line , she said , pointing toward the door .
maybe we can clear up the whole mess right now .
he sighed , looking disappointed .
were only together for one day and shes already bossing me around , he grumbled , as he got ready to go back out into the storm .
im starting to wonder if this relationship has a future .
thank you , dear , she called after him , laughing even though it made her shoulder hurt worse .
when he came back , he looked perplexed .
heres the list from those crates .
i couldnt tell you what it all is , except for the one marked explosive , jake said .
really ?
she asked , curious .
only one thing explosives are for around here .
let me see .
she looked over the list .
i was right , she said .
this is seismic equipment .
someone is doing a survey .
steven didnt say anything about seismic in his abstract .
whatever , jake commented , yawning .
it had been a long day .
well see when he gets here , i guess .
chapter 4 russian station vostok antarctic plateau vladimir sokolov prepared for the outside by adjusting his leather lined goggles under his fur hat , and then tightly wrapped a wool scarf over all , concealing the prematurely gray hair that he allowed to grow long in the extreme isolation .
the goggles covered deep lined careworn eyes that appeared much older than his 47 years .
the black leather coat was insulated on the inside with fur of some kind the type of animal , he did not know .
the pants were also made from leather .
his mukluks , boots for polar travel , were cotton over felt .
he tied them as firmly as he dared , enough to gain a small advantage in keeping his footing , but not so tightly that they slowed his circulation and led to frostbite .
when he was ready , he pushed the heavy steel door , which swung slowly on its hinges , screaming in protest in the brittle cold .
his mukluks boomed on the snow , the very pack sounding like the frozen bits of ice were being torn apart one shard at a time .
the sustrugi snow that the wind has packed , sculpted , and then packed again for years on end was firm under foot , until it settled under his weight as he walked , sending a low thunder reverberating through the surface .
he grabbed hold of the guide rope that led to the instrument array .
even in relatively mild weather , meaning windless , he held the rope , for it represented the thin line between safety and the certain death that so many others had found .
he did not want to learn to forget to do it by not holding the line when it wasnt necessary .
he held it so as not to forget the others who had wandered off into the darkness , never to be seen again .
even now that it was again light outside , he held it .
it was something that offered tangible security something not easily let go of .
he reached the instrument array quickly , not wanting to stay out any longer than necessary , and began to clear away the drifted snow from the receptors and cables .
the snow that drifted between the telescopes was a powder , like dust .
it didnt actually snow much at vostok or anywhere else on the antarctic plateau around the south pole .
the snow that drifted there was blown from far away , possibly thousands of miles away , and from many years past , traveling endlessly , like the sands of the desert .
in its travels , the crystals that made up the snowflakes had long since been milled fine by the relentless wind .
as difficult as it was to be out in the environment , as he thought of it , he found it preferable to being inside .
as a scientist , he had almost looked forward to the chance to study there .
but with the cold , the food if one chose to dignify it with the label , and the lack of proper equipment , he had had enough .
and that was without the consideration that even in that distant outpost , there was the political element , though it was unquestionably less than it would have been in moscow .
a physicist by training , he was unable to reconcile the political climate of his country with his personal observations .
he had been trained to question certain things , and being told that he mustnt question others was infuriating .
science , by definition , required freedom of thought , which was the one thing he could not have .
his brilliance as a physicist kept him in good standing , up to a point , at the university where he did his work , but it was obvious that his enthusiasm for politics was lacking .
his friends saw what he did not , that only the work he produced kept him safe , and that was uncertain at best .
they conspired to get him assigned to vostok as a way of saving him , though he didnt feel especially saved through the experience .
the work , however , kept him going .
exertion in the pursuit of knowledge was the highest condition of existence , he believed .
just as motion was the essence of travel , it was work that was the essence of science .
reaching a destination signaled the end of a journey .
it was the journey itself that he aspired to , not the destination .
vostok station was situated beyond the mountains , and endless glaciers that separated the highlands of the plateau from the coast , as close to the middle of nowhere as it was possible to get .
the united states had grabbed the south pole apparently in perpetuity , so the russians were relegated to a less geographically recognizable place , the pole of inaccessibility , a suspiciously vague description that appeared to lend gravity to the title , perhaps as some kind of consolation for not getting the actual pole .
the name meant that vostok station was the furthest place from all the antarctic coasts .
when he finished with the equipment , he followed the rope back to the base .
he went around to the other side of the main building from where he had come out .
after taking another quick look around before going inside , he nodded imperceptibly to himself , noting that all was as it should be .
from that side of the building , he entered the galley .
the heavy outer door swung open , allowing the frigid air to swirl through the room , instantly joining with the warm moisture inside the building , turning it into fog , and creating a small tempest where the two vastly different climates clashed and did battle .
when the door was again closed , the storm began to abate , and as the fog dissipated , the frost bound figure of sokolov was left standing by the entry .
he began the process of removing the stiff , frozen garments from his body , unnoticed by the others in the room .
at one of the tables were two laborers who had been genially sharing a bottle of vodka .
as the contents of the bottle became less , each of the two , who had previously been so amicably dedicated to the project , grew steadily less enchanted with the others company and gradually settled upon a wide area of disagreement .
it was concluded that they should dissolve their partnership instantly and fully .
both claimed possession of the bottle .
each lunged for it at the same time , missing , but sending the bottle shattering across the floor .
by now , both were fully enraged and the one grabbed the broken bottle by the neck and addressed it towards his companions throat .
the other , seeing the threat for what it was , grabbed the butchers knife that was lying on the table and prepared to parry the ensuing attack .
everyone who was in the room saw what was unfolding and leapt up , taking defensive positions and arming themselves with whatever was available in case the melee were to escalate into a general conflagration .
the sudden violent turn of events came to an abrupt standstill when each had staked out their positions relative to the others and they all waited to see what events would take place next .
as the combatants stood their ground , vladimir sokolov , now finished with the process of shedding his outer garments and hanging them on a peg , walked through the galley as if oblivious to the whole affair .
he went to the urn where hot tea was always to be found , filled a cup , and put a stale biscuit on a plate .
he then walked over to the table where the two had been drinking , placed himself between them with the knife pointing towards one ear and the broken bottle towards the other , then sat down and began to eat .
the drunken adversaries looked at him as if he were mad and they were behaving in a perfectly rational manner .
at that instant , the door to the communications room opened and a figure clad in a dark grey turtleneck sweater , over which lay a well trimmed jet black beard , peered out over the room .
is there a problem in here ?
he asked calmly in russian to no one in particular .
at the sound of the question , the weapons that had recently been so clearly in evidence , disappeared as if they had never been present at all .
the bodies that had been frozen in action all began to shift , moving in harmony , as if choreographed , back to the positions where they had been before .
the tension in the room evaporated as had the mists of the cold air sweeping through the open door , and calm once again prevailed .
when order was restored , the communications operator , of the sweater and black beard , whom everyone knew was much more than a mere radio operator , came to sit opposite sokolov .
sokolov acknowledged his presence no more than he had the battling drunkards and continued with his tea and biscuit .
i have heard from moscow , the radio operator , whom sokolov only knew as gregore , told him .
your wish to extend the overland journey to collect meteorites near the mountains was approved several weeks ago .
sokolov bobbed his head once to signal that he had heard , but gave no other indication that he had any intention of engaging in conversation .
his dejectedness had by then come to be such a tangible presence that none considered it to be to anything other than ordinary .
certainly not to the political officer who sat across from him .
it was an air of forlorn melancholy the look of which he had come to be exceptionally well acquainted .
when it became apparent that sokolov was not going to contribute anything to the conversation , he continued , and the americans will be sending their atmospheric chemist here any day now , gregore said to the granite faced mass before him .
for an instant , sokolov , whose cup was lifted towards his lips , held the cup before him .
catching himself , he continued on and drank the remnants of the brew without flinching .
he nodded his head twice this time to indicate that he thoroughly understood .
it suddenly struck him that showing too little interest might seem suspicious in itself , so he asked as innocuous a question as he could think of .
the french ?
should be here at roughly the same time , gregore confirmed .
and we shall be leaving ?
sokolov inquired .
in about three weeks .
sokolov sat in stony silence for another long pause .
very well , then , he said quietly , setting aside the cup and plate .
i will continue with the preparations .
good , gregore said , smiling at this display of animation from the newly invigorated figure across from him .
he approved of a high morale on station .
we will have a very interesting journey back to the coast , i am sure .
yes , sokolov agreed .
i am certain that it will be .
chapter 5 beardmore glacier camp trans antarctic mountain range susan engen awoke to the sound of turbo jet engines whirling , and the screeching abrasion of skis bearing the weight of the c 130 vibrating through the snow pack .
as loud as it was and as close , it sounded as if it were going to crush her tiny nylon tent it still took a moment to break through the drug induced haze .
at first , she was confused as to how she came to be in that state at all until she tried to sit up and the injuries that had by then stiffened made their presence known , and she fell back into her bag .
oh , god !
she said , in a tone more of disgust than actual entreaty .
how could this happen ?
she didnt wait for an answer besides , she already knew , and forced herself to sit up .
dressing was excruciating , but she was goaded on by the cold that she was affected by far more markedly than she would have been because of the injuries and the drug hangover .
when she was finally ready , she stepped out into the glare of the sun reflecting off the snow that blinded her in spite of the glacier glasses she wore .
she managed to negotiate her way to the hut and entered it .
the incoming passengers from the flight were already inside .
she saw dr. atkinson with arthur fredricks , the polar program director .
nearby were alistair adams and dr. daniels .
her grad students , connie and walt , had made the flight and they came to her as soon as they saw her .
they had already heard about her fall .
as they expressed their concern and inquires as to her condition , she noticed a man who had come in on the flight , standing alone .
his clothing set him apart right away .
he wasnt wearing the red parka and black cargo pants of the civilians , nor was he in the green on green of the navy .
he had on a parka that was not dissimilar to her own , only it was new and bore insignias that she could not recognize from across the room .
he saw her looking at him , and nodded to her with a smile that seemed friendly enough , but left the distinct impression that he knew a great deal about her , while she hadnt any idea who he might be .
after greeting her students and assuring them she was fine , she went to the coffee pot where she found jake watching the activity from the back of the room .
hows my patient ?
he asked , solicitously .
lousy , she answered , but with enough caffeine , felt that improvement could be on the horizon .
i figured as much , he said , nodding .
able to sleep at all ?
with all of that stuff that i took , that shouldnt have been a problem , she said .
woke up a lot , though .
she adjusted the sling that he had given her .
i believe it , he said , continuing to look over the new arrivals .
susan refilled the cup and then went and found dr. atkinson , who was still with dr. fredricks .
morning , steven , arthur , she greeted them .
hello , susan , dr. atkinson said for both of them .
we were just hearing about your accident .
im glad youre not badly injured .
she wasnt sure how badly injured she was , or was n't , but saying so was not an option .
dr. fredricks would insist that she return to mcmurdo for a thorough evaluation , and that could lead to a flight back to new zealand .
no .
she would deal with it later .
besides , the worst it could be was torn ligaments or cartilage , and other than surgery , there wasnt much to do about that but rest , and rest wasnt an option , either .
thank you , she said , then changing the subject , are my crates on board ? ''
already unloaded , dr. fredricks said , with convivial geniality .
the nsf , though made up of scientists , was a government entity , which in this scenario , served primarily as the host .
they set everything up for the pis to come and do their work .
once they were on location , all the nsf had to do was to leave them alone .
it was difficult for the former scientist to do he was left with the vicarious conceit of pretending that he was a part of the groups working on the continent in order not to feel like an outsider in his own program .
the pis all politely played along .
do we know what happened ?
she asked .
dr. atkinson looked accusingly at dr. fredricks , who in spite of his scientific background , was still a fully capable political operator .
yes , we do , he told her , his persona making the subtle shift from the affable host to one burdened with grave and consequential issues .
as soon as the captain comes in from the aircraft , we will be discussing that .
we need to discuss something ?
susan asked , putting aside the suggestion that she wait .
i thought it was a simple error .
and i apologize for misleading you in that fashion , dr. fredricks said , in full bureaucratic mode now .
but it was necessary .
steven , she said , turning toward dr. atkinson , what is all the mystery about ?
you will know in a minute , he replied .
there have been some changes to the roster of projects working from our camp this summer .
oh , susan told him .
i guess that doesnt really matter now that were up to speed .
he chose not to answer and she didnt press him .
another scientist using the camp wasnt such a big deal .
the door opened then and the captain entered the hut .
he strode in purposefully , wearing a flight jacket rather than the green parkas the rest of his crew wore .
as captain of the flight squadron that supported the antarctic program , he was also the skipper of mcmurdo station .
the captain was in charge of all military operations , which were only there to support the nsf , but their presence there was steeped in tradition from the days of admiral byrd .
he nodded to dr. fredrick as he spoke .
theyre not happy about it , he said , but theyll live .
he had just told the passengers who were en route to the south pole and then to vostok that they had to stay on board .
they wanted to visit the camp since the plane had stopped anyway .
okay , then , lets start , dr. fredrick said , before calling for everyone in the room to offer their attention .
i dont know how much news you all have received out here about the situation in the middle east .
its been developing quickly , so what i say may already be out of date , but this is what we know .
iran has fallen into the hands of the fundamentalists in a revolution that has overthrown the shah .
they have taken the american embassy hostage and there are rumors that they will announce that the hostages will stand trial for crimes .
iraq is already probing the iranian defenses and an attack is widely anticipated .
he paused for a moment and looked at the captain , who kept silent , so he continued .
it would be really hard to know whom to back in that fight .
iran hates us because we supported the shah .
iraq is bent on conquest .
hussein has imperial ambitions .
that is correct , the captain agreed , jumping in now .
this is way worse than '73 , if for no other reason than we are directly involved this time .
there is a new element to all of this , too .
before now , byzantine type kings , sultans , caliphs , and whoever ruled the region .
then we had military dictators , like hussein taking power .
now we have religious fanatics toppling the regimes .
all three have two things in common .
they are the worst kinds of sons of bitches , and they keep themselves in power by keeping their own people impoverished and hopped up on religion .
appears that this time , it bit them in the ass .
there is not one democratically elected government in the region , except the israelis , and there is , obviously , little hope of their talking reason to these fruitcakes .
susan settled down with connie and walt as dr. fredrick began to speak .
she was still significantly cross eyed , and force feeding herself the black coffee , actively and earnestly prayed for the latest round of painkillers to take effect quickly .
not really paying attention , she had heard all about the situation on the news before deploying to the ice , until the last part .
wait a minute , she said , her inherently factious and contrarian nature shifting into automatic response .
first of all , whom do you think you have to thank for that ?
we supported a brutal , repressive regime for no other reason than because they were opposed to the communists .
now you are unhappy that those people who suffered under him dont like us for that ?
thanks for the news , but you didnt exactly need to come all the way out here to tell us that .
the captain looked at dr. fredrick , who looked embarrassed .
susan , when you submitted your proposal to the foundation for a research grant , you hypothesized about certain geological formations you expected to find here , dr. fredrick said , carefully phrasing his answer in scientific terms .
a hypothesis based on previous findings , as well as what one might theorize , based on what has been discovered in similar locations .
yes , thats right , she said , her brain still moving a step slow , but with growing unrest .
some of the things you suggested that you might find were mineral concentrations and fossil fuels .
you said that there was a likelihood of super concentrations of oil somewhere between here and the ross sea .
i specifically said that there was a great likelihood of some concentrations , a good chance of significant deposits , and a reasonable expectation that there may be large caches , but that was the merest speculation based on mathematical probability , she said , backpedalling on the meaning of her hypothesis .
there is no evidence to support that supposition .
not yet , dr. fredrick pointed out .
no , not yet , she allowed .
but i still dont see what that has to do with what is going on in iran .
it was , however , apparent to all that she knew exactly what it had to do with it .
they could see the emotions all trying to take hold at once fear , anger , consternation .
she was waiting for someone to say something to somehow mitigate the blasphemy she thought she was hearing .
dr. fredrick looked relieved when the captain handled it .
what this has to do with that , the captain said , is that we are now in full crisis mode .
despots and fanatics are positioning themselves to dictate our strategic destiny to us , and that is unacceptable .
if the opportunity to locate and mine a new source of oil exists , then we need to do that now .
the statement brought a general uproar in the room .
dr. fredrick jumped to his feet .
whoa , there , everybody .
hang on !
that is not what is going to happen , at least not until a whole lot of other things happen first .
all we are going to do this season is to see if we can identify possible locations and amounts .
then we will see what will happen next .
so how are you planning to do that ?
susan engen demanded , her voice brittle .
she forced herself to be calm .
the plan she had laid out for herself was more than merely being threatened .
she was now keenly aware that she was personally and directly responsible for this unfolding disaster .
her research , which was supposed to demonstrate why the continent needed to be protected , was now being used as an excuse for its demise .
that is what im for , the person she noticed earlier , with the insignia clad coat said , smiling mildly .
let me tell you all a little about myself .
i am lieutenant richards .
im in the air force , assigned to a research project with nasa , which has loaned me to the nsf to come here .
the calm tone he employed helped to quiet the uniformly agitated group he was addressing .
the announcement that he did research for nasa piqued the interest of the science community enough that they were willing to listen for the moment .
what i do for nasa involves exploring the possibility of a future lunar station , and though that would not come to fruition for quite some time , the process is in place to work out the details of how it could .
my role is to design systems to locate and exploit existing resources , such as ice , to use for water as well as separating the materials for breathable air and fuel for propulsion .
it is assumed that seismology would play a part in that exploration , and that is why i have been sent here to help with this project .
the opiates were finally starting to take effect on susans badly damaged tendons .
while reducing the considerable pain , they also helped to take the edge off her suddenly frazzled nerves .
they also served to soften her inhibitions , and she found herself girding up for battle .
maybe the technology exists for that type of precision on the moon , susan interrupted him with , but i assure you , it doesnt here on earth .
i know that much at least .
when you say explore for oil , that means drilling .
and , there is no way , no matter how much is discovered , that this could be economically feasible .
the technology to even extract it doesnt exist .
she said this in the full knowledge that this was exactly what could be done , and why she had committed herself to stopping it .
true , the lieutenant conceded , and i assure you that no one is going to take these steps unless there is a very good chance that the oil is actually there .
economically speaking , the captain said , taking over again , you are partially right .
normally , we would allow a free market to decide when and how to explore .
this is a security and strategic concern now .
the government will make the decision , and contract and subsidize the operation after that .
dr. atkinson had listened quietly so far .
he was the chief scientist and there were things he needed to know .
all right then .
i take it the government has decided to do this , at least this far , or else dr. fredrick and the nsf would not have pulled all this together so quickly .
dr. fredrick nodded vehemently , grateful for the opportunity to get off the hook a bit .
it was no secret where the science community stood on matters such as these .
how is this supposed to impact our field season here ?
our resources are slim time is precious .
what exactly is it that you want from us ?
dr. fredrick handled it .
we are going to leave lt. richards here , he said , sensing that the worst was over .
all things considered , it looked like they were taking it well .
he has equipment and materials already on station .
he and dr. engen will work together .
the places described in her grant to be explored are also the prime locations the government wants to get data on .
what ? susan exploded .
she jumped out of her chair , knocking it over .
you are going to detour my project for for this ?
not at all , dr. fredrick said .
the lieutenant will just tag along and do his work at the same time .
this picturesque description elicited a small smile from the lieutenant .
no .
no way .
you are not going to use my hypothesis as the excuse to destroy the ecology .
no way !
she repeated adamantly .
susan , i really dont think that is going to happen at least i hope not , dr. fredrick said , turning a sharp glance at the captain .
we will truly appreciate your help .
you have two more years on your grant , and i will do everything i can to make sure you get whatever you need for the remaining two years .
she opened her mouth to answer , but stopped .
two more years .
it suddenly occurred to her that there was a threat veiled in that statement .
dont help and there may not be another two years .
she considered her position .
for the first time in years , she was speechless .
her grant meant everything to her .
by defending the environment , she was now going to lose her grant ?
she had the presence of mind to close her mouth and keep it closed .
she nodded once and looked away .
okay then , dr. fredrick said , clapping his hands as though he was breaking up a huddle .
i thought that the treaty prohibited this sort of thing that the whole continent was preserved for scientific research , dr. daniels said , also trying to grasp the enormity of what he had just heard .
he had been brought partially up to speed on the trip out from mcmurdo by dr. atkinson , despite the firm admonition not to .
a communications blackout was in effect , and in dr. atkinson 's case , that applied to conversation as well .
you are half right , dr. fredrick allowed .
the treaty allows everyone equal access to information and to pursue their research , but it does not discount territorial claims .
it does not address material resources at all .
deliberately , i think .
it is my understanding that the united states would not allow language of that type to be included , not wanting to preclude that eventuality .
there are no provisions against mining .
the issues will be about sovereignty , not exploitation .
sovereignty ?
dr. daniels asked .
absolutely , dr. atkinson said , taking up the point and nodding thoughtfully .
while there are no prohibitions excluding the extraction of mineral wealth , there may be disputes regarding ones rights to the claim itself .
the kiwis claim this section , alistair reflected out loud .
and they are part of the commonwealth .
are you planning on stealing our oil ?
and the treaty neither confirms nor denies those claims , dr. atkinson continued , ignoring the question .
it merely puts the topic on hold .
it is ambiguous .
if this were to proceed , the most likely outcome would be that someone would either contest the claim because they want it for themselves , or they would try to stop it simply because it goes against their interests .
the russians , dr. daniels suggested , which got a raised eyebrow from the captain .
this turmoil has to benefit them , the captain said .
they have as much oil as the arab countries , but are so backward in their ability to extract it , that it cant be profitable to export .
when the price of oil spikes , they suddenly see something theyre desperate for , hard currency .
i would expect them to contest our rights here , fiercely .
the longer we can go without their becoming aware of our intentions , the better .
susan looked up sharply at that last statement , but said nothing .
she had grown increasingly accustomed to the idea of being a driving force in the protection of the environment , only to find in the last moments that she had unwittingly managed to arrange for its demise .
now , a new strategy was starting to form .
all , perhaps , may not be lost after all , she thought .
there was quiet in the hut as everyone tried to grasp the new reality they were faced with .
it seemed like an opportune moment for dr. fredricks and the captain to make their escape .
we had better get going , dr. fredricks said to dr. atkinson , making a sign to the captain .
we have a group going to the pole on board .
then we are making a call at vostok on the way back , to drop off one of our people to assist the french there this summer .
with a warning to all to keep silent about what they had just learned , they left .
chapter 6 russian station vostok antarctic plateau vladimir sokolov , along with the entire complement of the russian base , met the american aircraft as it taxied to a stop .
although the courtesy call by the americans had been planned long in advance , there was some confusion as to when they would actually be arriving .
the repeated radio calls , first from mcmurdo , and then from the aircraft itself , could not convince the russians that the aircraft was currently inbound .
when it passed overhead , everyone got the message .
a ski way was tolerably well prepared , confirmed by the flight crew who made a low level pass to make sure it was serviceable .
if they couldnt communicate the simple fact that they were en route , they werent about to take anyones word for the condition of the landing strip .
the hasty reception was organized by rousting everyone out of the galley , the visitors having arrived in the middle of lunch .
the american flight crew was ecstatic .
it wasnt every day that a navy aircraft flew into a russian base for distinguished visitor treatment .
they brought piles of everything made in america they could find to barter with .
blue jeans and navy uniforms had the best value .
russian fur hats and goggles carried the best exchange .
while the dignitaries were getting the tour , the one new permanent addition to the base was receiving his orientation .
sokolov had managed to arrange that the young american would room with him .
the russian helped by dragging his new roommates bags to the housing module , and having dropped them in the middle of the room , he pointed to the lower bunk , a concession that he , as host , felt obligated to make .
then he sat in the one chair and lit a cigarette , which made the american cringe .
the russian contemplated his new companion through the smoke .
you are quite young , he observed .
trevor , the new arrival , shrugged .
i have a masters degree in atmospheric chemistry , he said .
im just working as a research assistant while getting my ph.d. sokolov continued to look at him , wondering how much to say .
he decided to make a conclusive test immediately .
who are the cia in this group ?
he inquired abruptly .
what ?
trevor asked , caught completely off guard .
do not try to tell me you do not know .
we dont have cia in antarctica , trevor said , flustered .
jesus , ive never met anyone from cia in my life .
sokolov looked disappointed he was hoping this would be someone he could trust .
trevor looked back at him , confused .
honestly , we do not have cia here at least i dont think so , trevor said with such sincerity that sokolov decided to hold off making a judgment .
maybe not .
but you do have political officers .
how did you get them to let you come here ?
now trevor laughed .
we do not have political officers , he said , but he stopped laughing quickly enough when he saw the seriousness with which sokolov studied his physiognomy .
sokolov confronted the possibility that this was true .
it would mean that what he had been told was a lie , but he suspected that already .
it was his turn to shrug .
maybe not .
we are told to expect this , you see .
when we travel , we are always accompanied by such people .
i visited your station at the south pole last summer .
really ?
trevor asked .
i just came from there .
yes ?
our group not permitted more than a moments separation from each other .
this is typical .
you and i must be careful of appearances , he suddenly said , and with meaning .
it is inevitable that there be suspicion .
the russian scientist was reasonably certain that his quarters were not wired .
the station was considered secure for obvious reasons .
trevor was quiet for a moment , considering .
we hear things like this , of course , but actually seeing it is different .
it is completely different from what we are used to .
sokolov looked at him intently .
this is true ?
you are completely free of such things ?
at all times ?
he had heard that from colleagues , but it was a much different story that came from the authorities .
he had reason to disbelieve the authorities .
his training required proof to convince him of most things , and this was too important to base his actions on wild speculation .
absolutely , trevor said .
his thought processes were also trained to work a certain way .
not that this doesnt create problems of its own , you know .
there were so many things sokolov wanted to ask , to know , to hear .
he knew that he had to keep his reserve , however , and tried to sound as if he were making disinterested conversation .
oh ?
there are problems with your governance ?
he asked .
sure , always .
not that we would have it any different , trevor quickly added .
there are always problems with this , sokolov said .
for us , it is like the weather .
they come , they go .
we do not say this , for we are very patriotic towards our government .
huh , trevor mused .
i guess we are just as misinformed about you as you are about us .
we hear that people in your country hate the government .
our government knows what is best for us , sokolov told him , and tells us quite clearly how we must act for our own benefit .
it tells us many things .
very many things .
despite trying to sound conversational and detached , sokolov could not , however , hide the outrage on his face , and trevors face also began to betray that he , too , understood that this was not just a philosophical exchange .
in our society , just having this conversation is against the law , sokolov said slowly , looking at trevor with suppressed intensity .
then maybe we had better not , the american said , smiling , but with alarm .
you think not ?
sokolov asked , reverting back to his indifferent demeanor .
that would be your prerogative , if you should wish for it .
i think maybe we had just better to get to work , trevor said .
that is , of course , why we are here , is it not ?
sokolov said , nodding sagely .
the track vehicle was warm enough to be comfortable , and trevor could just see through the frosted window if he scraped it often enough .
sokolov opened the thermos that he had packed before they left and poured two cups without asking , knowing that everyone wants a hot drink when it was that cold .
they were roughly two miles to windward of vostok station , sokolov and trevor in one vehicle , two other russians in another .
it wasnt really far enough to be certain that the snow was uncontaminated by pollutants given off by the station , but it was as far as trevor could get the russians to go .
it was probably fine , since the wind direction was almost one hundred percent reliable .
and almost was almost good enough , but not quite .
it would , however , just have to do .
sokolov wasnt really involved in this project , but he had been doing his own research on site for over a year and had it pretty well down .
it was good to have something different to do .
trevor was watching the workers unloading the equipment from the other vehicle .
this wasnt actually the project that he was sent there to do , either .
there had been many ice cores drilled at vostok and the french team that was there during the summer was very good , thanks to the swiss engineer who was running the operation .
the equipment was slated to drill three separate cores .
trevors was last .
therefore , he had time on his hands to try something that he had thought about , but not mentioned to anyone else , other than sokolov , yet .
when he was a full professor , he hoped to get a grant to come back on a project of his own .
now , he could conduct his experiment on the side and possibly have a theme for his doctoral dissertation .
how did you keep this a secret from our atmospheric scientist ?
sokolov asked him .
this would be just the type of research he would like to steal and claim as his own .
i told him that i was going to walk from site to site collecting samples and carry them with me for several miles .
ah .
sokolov thought for a moment .
we are not going to do that , are we ?
no .
well dig a pit right over there .
as you know , of course , the annual snowfall here is consistent to the point of being almost unnatural .
it has long been understood that chemicals get trapped in the gasses that form the bubbles in the ice .
absolutely .
that is why the cores are mined .
correct .
what i am looking at is a recent record , maybe fifty or sixty years .
the cores map certain climate changes from distant history .
since we are in a current period of rapid warming , i am going to take a year by year , much more detailed record of the most recent past .
by doing a chemical analysis of each year individually , maybe even seasonally , i can reconstruct a nearly perfect model of what chemical changes occur along with climate change .
by finding a pattern , i am thinking that i may be able to correlate them with the triggers that bring on climate change , making long term climate prediction a possibility .
not a bad hypothesis for a grad student .
thanks , though im not technically a grad student .
more of a research assistant while i work on my ph.d. trevor looked over his material list , sipping the hot tea .
sokolov didnt do anything .
where did you learn english so well ?
trevor asked him .
university .
interesting .
i dont know anyone who speaks russian .
that is because your imperial masters do not want your awareness of what is taking place in the larger world .
the enlightened soviet leadership , on the other hand , understands that when the working classes of your society rise up , they will require our assistance and we want to be prepared to communicate with them .
trevor smiled .
at first he was alarmed when sokolov would go off like that , but over the last few days he recognized that the russian was just venting .
he needed someone to talk to , and he was discrete in his indiscretion .
he only did it when it was safe .
forgive me if i dont start learning russian .
i can not do that .
most of the worlds great literature is in russian and you will remain ignorant until you can read it in the original .
about this , sokolov was serious .
then you will have to teach me , trevor said .
our political leader will find this an excellent use of our spare time .
well , there isnt going to be much more of that now .
more the pity , i suppose .
chapter 7 world green organization camp ross island , coast of antarctica the green organization base reposed slightly beyond scott base , the new zealand research station that was established just over the hill from mcmurdo .
it was there for a couple of reasons .
first , the kiwis were sympathetic to the cause , so it was a comfortable place to be .
second , they were close enough to mcmurdo to keep watch on the americans , and to make their presence felt .
they were sure that they were having an impact , which was correct .
thanks , the leader of that years expedition , who was known only as frodo , said to the woman as she left the camp .
the woman , a grad student from santa cruz , california , had brought a letter from beardmore .
she had been befriended by dr. engen before susan had gone inland .
they discovered they shared the belief that environmental activism was as important a thing as a person could do in life .
they also resisted the sense that working for the antarctic program was something close to being a part of the problem , but dr. engen was able to convince the young student that change was something that mostly happened from the inside out , with a few well placed nudges .
so now the newly minted activist enjoyed the sensation of finding herself acting as a clandestine agent , passing information to the partisans .
susan had sent the note through the guard mail , which were basically just bags that were picked up by the flight crews as they passed through and delivered to whatever station they were addressed to , whenever an opportunity could be arranged .
it had never occurred to anyone that the internal mail was something that needed monitoring , and it wasnt .
the camp was made up of modules that looked exactly like christmas ornaments .
while there could be no doubt that it was operated in a perfectly environmentally friendly way , it couldnt possibly have looked more out of place .
the casual observer would have expectations of what they expected to see and the unusual seemed somehow wrong .
when considered logically , it didnt appear any more out of place than anything else .
everything should have seemed like it didnt belong except what was there naturally .
he read the note .
son of a bitch !
frodo rasped .
what ?
his companion , crystal , asked .
she was reading a three month old magazine that shed taken from scott base .
she was maybe twenty two , and her blondish hair was twisted into dreadlocks , long before they became fashionable , and of which she would later be proud .
she was from belgium the others were all americans .
son of a bitch !
frodo said again .
he handed the letter over .
holy shit !
crystal exclaimed , after learning the contents .
i knew it !
he shouted , knowing that he couldnt possibly have known , except that everyone knew it would happen eventually .
what are we going to do ?
she asked as the hatch opened .
the other two members of the group came in .
they passed the letter around , each complaining bitterly of the horror that was to be visited upon them .
upon reflection , however , it occurred to them that this was the very reason why they were there to expose the crime before it could be committed , and organize a defense .
as they were only four people , the only defense that could be conceived would be to get information out to their well established media machine and to inspire international condemnation , which was what they had been doing all along .
let me think , frodo said .
they all stopped talking and watched him while he did so .
we cant get to where they are now , and i dont want to wait until they get somewhere that we can .
that means we have to act on what we know now .
how are we supposed to do that ?
they asked .
pictures .
if we cant get up there , they asked , how are we supposed to get pictures ?
well just have to use the ones we have .
dont we have pictures of them drilling through the ice ?
yeah , but that is drilling through ice .
doesnt matter .
its the story that counts .
those will do .
this troubled the other of the girls , sierra , who told him that it seemed kind of crummy to use phony pictures .
she thought that they had the moral high ground .
we do have the moral high ground .
that is why it is so important to get something out now .
it seems like a dirty trick , she persisted .
its what they want to do that is dirty , he said vehemently .
we know that what we are doing is right and what they are doing is wrong .
that is all that matters now .
come on , ill show you .
they went out of the ornament and traversed the short distance to the sea ice where there was a seal hole .
several weddell seals were sunning themselves around it .
does anyone doubt that garbage from mcmurdo is spread all over the ice ?
he asked .
of course not , they answered .
weve all picked up tons of it .
okay then , he said .
he took the bag of trash he dragged along with him and spread it among the seals .
he took out a camera from its bag and snapped two rolls of film .
bastards !
he said .
we need to stop them .
they put the trash back in the bag , not missing a single scrap .
the director of the russian science program , whose job was to oversee operations in antarctica , took the memo because all reports that had to do with the program came through him , especially those with possible political ramifications .
in much the same manner as his american counterparts , his job was mainly political .
true , he was a scientist , but one whose lifestyle was guaranteed by the government , so their agenda was his agenda .
he lived a far better life as a bureaucrat than as a professor .
his main priorities were keeping the appearance of cooperation under the treaty in the forefront , avoiding embarrassing situations , and finally , actually doing science that would make good copy for the worldwide media .
he read the news clipping with skepticism .
these environmental groups were all crazy , he thought .
they were all comprised of the offspring of a pampered and morally bankrupt middle class , looking for something to be passionate about .
he immediately recognized the photos for what they were , ice cores .
still , why would they publish this ?
crazy though they might be , they werent given to tabloid style fabrications of the ludicrous .
they clung tightly to whatever credibility they could muster .
he pondered .
as he stirred his tea , he looked at the pictures again .
it looked like a project a european group had done a couple of years previously , in greenland he thought .
where could this story have come from ?
why now ?
the german paper specifically stated that the information that the americans were exploring for oil in the antarctic , was acquired by a watchdog group on location , and then independently corroborated .
the second part , independent corroboration , could just be fabrication , but then again , so could the original story .
one of the two statements , however , had to have had at least a grain of truth to it , regardless of how exaggerated it might be .
could it be that the americans were going to start exploring , he wondered ?
why not ?
a thousand reasons , not least of which was the fact that even if one could locate a source , the cost and logistics of removing it were prohibitive .
if it werent , every country with a hint of a claim would have descended like locusts years ago .
wars would have been fought over territorial claims .
but , he thought , what if someone was absolutely determined to mine the continent at any cost ?
it could be done .
and why would one expend an unrecoverable sum of capital to extract mineral deposits when it was available at a lesser price ?
they wouldnt , unless it wasnt available anywhere else at any price .
and that , he knew , was an experience the americans had so recently not enjoyed .
interesting .
he wrote a few lines on a piece of plain white paper and called his assistant .
get a telex to vostok with this immediately , he said .
the assistant read the note while standing in front of the desk .
he held the note without moving , but after he read it a second time , he raised his eyes to look over his spectacles at his boss .
just send it .
please ?
jiminy frickin cricket , chuck stoddard muttered , a compromise to the oath that hovered on his lips now that it was no longer politically correct to say what he really meant in the washington d.c. office .
as the head of the national science foundation , it was stoddards job to catch hell for whatever gaffs came out of it , but to be fair , it was also his job to take credit for things he had almost no knowledge of , either .
this time , it would be just pure hell .
we just barely decided to start thinking about thinking about this .
how in the hell did it end up here ?
he asked , waving the copy of der spiegel .
shoulders shrugged , heads shook personalities that were drawn near to the source of power looked for metaphorical cover in their minds .
he sighed , knowing the rhetorical question had no chance of getting answered here .
he , on the other hand , would no doubt be offering answers to a senate subcommittee in the very near future .
and he hadnt the damnedest idea what answers he would find .
when is the next time we can talk to mcmurdo ?
he asked .
but before anyone could start to do the mental calculation , he stopped .
no , wait .
that is the last thing we need now , open channel voice communications .
ill send a plain text message .
how can we do that ?
an aid was ready with an answer .
remember that experimental satellite we turned over from nasa to polar programs ?
it still has a single channel operating .
we can send messages on the vax computer while the bird is over the horizon .
its nearly extinct , but it still works .
good .
can it be monitored ?
unlikely .
there is the ulf if you want .
the ulf ultra low frequency equipment was korean war surplus that dated back before admiral byrd .
it was slow , but reasonably reliable .
he waved the suggestion off .
at that time , universities and other scientific organizations , principally , were using the internet .
prominent people , such as the director , regardless of their other technical acumen , still did not understand much of its workings .
he picked up a lined yellow note pad and wrote in longhand .
to the director of polar programs , stop , as if it were a telegram and not e mail that he was writing .
environmentalists have published accounts of our upcoming project , stop .
claim information uncovered from your end , stop .
we will , if pressed , say that research is just part of normal geological mapping stop .
keep the damn lid on stop !
he handed the pad over .
okay .
get this out and for gods sake lets keep a lid on it here , too !
the communications room at vostok station housed most of the computer equipment , as well as the radio .
the communications operator would monitor guard frequencies , mostly american , on the radio , as well as taking messages from the telex .
at that time , they had limited , if any , means of connecting to the internet , which was still an american invention that had only recently allowed public access outside of large institutions .
gregore , the operator , read the message thoughtfully .
he didnt believe a word of it it didnt make any sense .
it was the fact that he was being charged with a surprise visit to the american camp that disturbed him .
first , he was told to abandon the fantasy that he was a radio operator and to take charge of the operation .
second , he was to visit the camp , and observe what was going on , without directly asking if they were doing what it was suspected they might be doing .
that was not as easy as it sounded .
one did not post signs that read illegal operations being contemplated here .
one geologist making observations looked like another .
how was he supposed to know ?
he thought about whom he was to travel with and where they intended to go .
it was not that far out of the way .
he considered not telling the others why they were making the visit , except to make a treaty inspection , which was a mere social call .
there was a quota or something , he would say , and they were one short .
in the end , he decided to let the others in once they were underway .
he would need other eyes searching , also .
what was he supposed to look for , oil wells ?
walking through the galley from the communication room , he picked up his coat and walked out into the blinding sunshine .
like all of those who had spent the winter at vostok , the mid summer sun felt pleasant and he went hatless unless he was out for an extended time , despite the minus five degrees of temperature , fahrenheit .
well , there was one upshot , he thought .
knowing that he wielded secret power was amusing for only so long .
what was the point of having power if those around you didnt acknowledge and respect it ?
most of them did , of course , but his acting the part of a lowly operator allowed them to act like important intelligentsia and treat him like an inferior underling .
an act it was , but a very unpleasant one .
he could see the french crew working on the ice drill to windward , the american with them .
no , he would not discuss what he knew before setting out .
who knew what they talked about when he could not hear ?
not that it had mattered before .
there was nothing here that needed protecting , and the scientific data was to be shared , regardless .
still , it would be better to be safe .
chapter 8 beardmore glacier camp trans antarctic mountain range from the ledge where susan engen was working , she could look down on the camp , the hut at the center , the brightly colored dome tents adorning the otherwise bleak landscape the cargo line extending out towards the ski way .
jake was orienting the grad students , including connie and walt , most of whom had never stood on sloping ice before , let alone high up on a mountain .
in time , they would be bounding around without ropes as if born to it .
for right now , though , they listened intently , as if their lives depended on what he was saying , which they did .
she had heard nothing from the green organization regarding her message to them .
that was no surprise there wasnt any way in which they would have been able to reply .
she wasnt completely certain that it had found its way to them at all .
hanging her hopes on a hail mary pass was somewhat less than comforting .
she could only hope that the information was being put to good use .
the booming of the explosions from lt. richards seismic work down below continued to irritate her .
she instinctively looked up whenever they happened , as if the noise and vibration would trigger avalanches .
the sudden motion made her shoulder ache worse that it did already , and she subconsciously began to blame the lieutenant for her discomfort .
and that was without the consideration that working in the last great wilderness was supposed to be a peaceful experience .
having one good arm made working difficult she needed to be able to write on her clipboard while using her instruments .
jake offered to help , but trying to explain to him what she needed done was harder than just doing it .
besides , he would have seen the set of not quite duplicate notes that she was keeping .
while it was certain that he wouldnt understand what they meant , it would have been awkward to explain why there were separate reports .
totally stonewalling that inconvenient lieutenant might not be an option at this point , but a little disinformation could at least buy some time .
jake had gotten the grad students secured and returned to where susan was looking through the viewer on the theodolite , the telescopic viewer mounted upon a tripod that was used for mapping the geology .
all set ?
she asked him .
doing fine , he said , before settling onto a rock facing the sun .
he sat quietly , watching her work , picking up little pieces of shale and tossing them at a target he picked out a few feet away .
is this really going to happen ?
he asked her .
drilling for oil , here ?
no , she answered , making a note on the page .
how can you be so sure ?
he asked .
they sounded serious enough when they talked about it .
and they said it was your theory that gave them the idea .
she looked over at him , closing the cover of the notebook .
the raillery that normally crowded his deportment was nowhere to be found in his current demeanor .
it was replaced with concern that he took no effort to conceal .
because i said so , she told him , smiling comfortingly .
especially because they are using my ideas .
i just wish there was something we could do .
i feel like i need to do something , he said , throwing more of the rocks .
she hesitated before answering , wondering how much to say .
just keep doing what youre doing .
act like nothing has changed .
there may be a time when there will be something to do , but for now , dont do anything .
dont even sound like you are against it .
he looked at her with a different expression on his face now .
she spoke as if she actually meant it that there might be action to take , while he had sounded like someone who was merely regretting his helplessness .
why do i begin to suspect that something is afoot here ?
he asked her .
because youre a man , she told him , opening her notebook again and getting back to work .
and all men are suspicious ?
so thats how its going to be , huh ?
okay , he commented , slipping back into character .
you know , you barely get to know a girl before you decide shes up to no good , susan said , playing along .
he laughed , but shook his head with a sideways tilt , indicating he knew that any trust he was to place in her protestations of innocence would leave him disappointed .
somehow , i get the feeling that i would find myself vindicated in that belief in very short order , he said .
she chose not to reply , but she didnt need to .
her confident , though conspiratorial , look said all that was necessary .
walt was bored .
sure , climbing on icy ledges on steep mountainsides in a remote wilderness was fun , for a little while , but the initial excitement had worn off .
theres nothing to do around here , he complained to connie .
it was a sunday morning , a day when the p.i.s tended to get caught up on paperwork and correspondence , and grad students and support workers did whatever it was they did whenever they were not doing their jobs .
most were fine with that .
want to take a walk ?
she asked .
thats all that we do , do , he replied .
no thanks .
he went for a walk anyway , out to the cargo line , just seeing what was there , when a green wooden box caught his attention .
it was marked with white stencils that read us navy .
jato .
he didnt know what it was , but there were all sorts of warnings about the danger contained inside and proper handling to assure that it would not explode .
now were getting somewhere .
he found something to pry the lid off and was surprised to find six carefully stacked rockets inside .
rockets , out here ?
if he had asked someone , the lieutenant for example , he would have learned that jato , or jet assist take off , was used when a c 130 either had an excessively heavy load , was fighting too much friction , or was trying to take off in deep , soft , snow , and could not get enough airspeed to lift off .
the rockets were attached , and when fired at the right moment , added , hopefully , enough additional power to get airborne .
what they were for was not his concern .
the possibilities of what they could be for , was .
he went back to the hut , rummaged around as inconspicuously as he could , and then nonchalantly told connie to get her coat and follow .
they piled the material that walt had scavenged onto a sled and towed it out to the mysterious wood box .
oh , no , connie said when she put the pieces together .
not again .
the captains reprimand after their disastrous fishing expedition had done the trick for her , and she had no interest receiving a second one .
relax , walt told her .
were in the middle of nowhere .
besides , this is harmless .
the jato rocket was strapped to the back of the sled , a crude , but probably effective , fuse had been devised , and a seat for the passenger was improvised in the front .
when i say ready , you light it up , walt instructed .
okay , '' she said , though there was something in her voice that absolved her from any negative outcome .
as he was getting ready to board the vehicle , steps were heard on the other side of the cargo line , and they hunched down low and tried to remain invisible .
barely breathing , they waited for the footsteps to move past , but instead they stopped , and jakes head appeared over the top .
what are you doing ?
jake asked .
walt hesitated to answer .
he still hadnt made up his mind about jake .
on the one hand , being the guide , plus his close association with dr. engen , made him automatically suspect .
on the other hand , he appeared to be completely crazy , an admirable trait .
since they were pretty much caught either way , he decided to make a simple explanation and see where it went .
jake shook his head with a frown .
he took his responsibility seriously , and would not allow anyone to expose themselves to danger unnecessarily .
too dangerous , he said .
walt silently cursed himself and his bad luck in having been discovered too soon .
first of all , jake went on , you have to move away from the line before you light it , since you dont know how straight it will run .
second , you need to do a trial run without sitting on it to make sure it will work .
pile some snow on there to simulate the weight .
all right !
walt said , grabbing a shovel .
connie closed her eyes and shook her head at jakes faulty display of adult supervision .
when it was ready , walt lit the fuse , and at jakes cautious insistence , watched from the other side of the line .
they looked over the boxes as the fuse smoldered and appeared to go out .
should i go check it ?
walt asked .
wait a minute , jake said .
im going to go check it .
walt went from behind the pallet they were watching from , and was halfway to the sled when it went off .
the blast knocked him off his feet .
the mound of snow that represented a potential passenger exploded into a mist as the sled itself was torn to splinters .
the rocket , now free of what presumed to control it , spun in circles on the ice before taking off in the direction of the ski way .
in less than a second it hit the deck again , spun around and took off toward the hut .
its trajectory shifted as it began to climb , and it pierced the wall of the outhouse , just below the roof , where dr. atkinson had just seated himself .
from there it climbed high in the sky , and in another abrupt directional shift , came about and became oriented in a downward vertical line heading straight for the food cave .
one of the first tasks to be accomplished in establishing a field camp was the excavation of the food cave .
a trench was dug , shelving built , a roof was laid over it , and then it was buried under several feet of snow .
depending on the latitude and elevation of the camp , it might , or might not be deep enough to maintain the annual ambient temperature .
either way , it was certainly cold enough to keep things frozen .
the cook had just gone down to do his shopping '' for the next day , when the room exploded into smoke and noise .
turkeys flew off shelves , brussels sprouts went ballistic , daylight and snow caved in upon his head .
when the fire and smoke abated , he stood still , covered in frost and vegetable matter .
not known for being in any way temperate in his demeanor , he showed remarkable reserve , considering the circumstance .
he merely nodded his head and whispered the words , someone is going to die .
connie and walt decided that going for a hike wasnt such a bad idea after all , with jake joining them , and they explored one of the side ridges near camp until it seemed safe to return .
they slipped into the hut quietly , mixing in with a group they had waited for to come along .
jake , being more experienced with this sort of thing , managed to allow for a half empty bottle of whiskey to mysteriously appear on the edge of the galley table , the donor remaining anonymous .
it was clearly a peace offering , was instantly accepted , and the unspoken pact consummated .
when the cook finished setting the galley to rights after the evening meal , he was in a much better humor , and took up his favorite pastime , which was badgering the weatherman .
it was an ongoing sideshow their perpetual altercation provided live entertainment for whoever chose to watch .
the hut was full to capacity with everyone who was done with their day , but had not yet retired to the tents for the night .
susan sat at a table with dr. atkinson and alistair adams , her maps laid in front of her .
lt. richards watched the two combatants sparring for a moment , laughed with the others , then took a deep breath before settling into the folding chair at the table across from susan .
she turned her eyes up from the map for a moment , seeing him there , but went back to her studies without any other sign of recognition .
he wore the smile he had acquired while listening to the two staffers hurling their insults , and kept it in place for as long as it could be maintained without the fear of looking stupid .
then he settled for a friendly , interested attitude as he peered over the inverted map .
what are you doing ?
he asked susan as innocuously as he could .
my job , she told him .
he had tried over the past days to approach her in a similar vein , with the same essential results .
she had refrained from outright hostility in putting him off , but could hardly have been said to be in any way approachable .
taking no notice of how he was received , he continued to attempt to find a breach in her defenses , hoping to find a way to open a dialog of any kind .
he was perfectly well aware of how she felt towards the project he was tasked with .
it was hard for him .
he found her to be even more captivating than he had expected when he was viewing her picture in the captains office .
knowing that she despised him for what he was doing was bad , but not as bad as having to hide his feelings behind an altogether alien persona .
he didnt recognize the person sitting across from her , who was trying to befriend her in order to gain the information needed to fulfill his mission .
he didnt much care for that person , either .
same here , he said , taking the pocket notebook from his cargo trousers .
he made a show of looking at the page he had opened at random , while not looking at susan .
she corrected her posture in a sharp motion , punctuated by the scrape of the chair leg on the floor , but refrained from speaking .
dr. daniels , who would be departing for the polar plateau in the morning , joined this uncomfortable partnership without noticing the tension that kept each of them at bay .
he was intrigued with the lieutenants role in establishing a lunar base .
he had studied the rocks that came back from the moon and spoke of going there himself .
past my time , though , im afraid , daniels sighed , smiling wanly .
the lieutenant , not wishing to be impolite , merely nodded .
it was more than jake , who had also just joined them , was capable of , to refrain from asking the question .
when will it be ?
he inquired .
maybe the year 2020 or so , the lieutenant answered .
he didnt know whether to be grateful for the interruption and change of subject , or resentful for the intrusion when he had susan to himself .
oh , he said , deflated .
thinking about going ?
lt richards asked , smiling at jake .
if i could , absolutely , except ill be too old , too .
im afraid thats right , he said .
by about 50 years .
if i werent , though , what would it take ?
jake asked .
whod get to go ?
lieutenant richards thought for a moment .
it wouldnt be much different than this .
more like the south pole station , really .
there will probably be an enclosure with various modules that perform different functions .
the personnel would be very much the same .
you will have mechanics , plumbers , all of the trades .
cooks .
if it were today , dr. daniels would almost certainly be a principle investigator , he said , again being polite .
that observation might have been true if he had said twenty years ago .
not just research , you know , alistair added .
if the ice that you are looking for is found , which , of course , it would have to be , the hydrogen could be separated for fuel .
the lunar station would be a jump off point to other points in the solar system , mars , i should expect .
true , the lieutenant said .
that is one of the more attractive reasons for a lunar station .
and if you dont find ice on the moon ?
susan asked , suddenly very much interested .
dont tell me .
you will have to work the process in reverse and transport the gasses to make water .
and it takes energy to complete the process , does it not ?
youre not going to be transporting diesel engines like here , i suppose .
go ahead , say it .
nukes .
i can see it now nuclear waste dumps all over the solar system .
you people wont ever learn , will you ?
lt. richards kept his silence , unsure how to answer .
it had been discussed as a possibility .
everything had been discussed as possible .
he knew how atomic energy was thought of by many people , but reasoned that it was misinformation and prejudice that led them to those beliefs , though it would hardly do to say that now , not to her .
not to mention getting it off the ground , susan continued , her accumulated anger now finding a conduit for release .
heres a beautiful picture to contemplate .
the booster explodes two hundred miles down range with a few hundred pounds of enriched uranium on board .
the entire southeastern united states gets a nice hot shower .
but wait , thats not it .
you contract with some poor country that needs the cash to launch from there .
make it sound like youre doing them a favor .
then , when it happens , its just a bunch of natives who get toasted .
no problem !
we can make containers that are safe from any catastrophic event , or we will be able to by then , lt. richards said quietly .
dr. engen laughed .
of course , you will .
i have about as much confidence in that as i do in the belief that you can turn the ross sea into an oil field without having an impact on the environment .
it isnt possible .
just being here has an impact .
we have an impact .
are you aware of our impact on the marine biology of the mcmurdo sound ?
she asked , sweetly .
no , he answered , unsure where she was leading .
let me educate you , she said bitterly .
it seems that we have polluted the sound so much that the animals we have been studying there are starting to die off .
so now we have new studies being done to examine how human occupation of an ecosystem has a deleterious effect on that system .
now , thats science , huh ?
set up shop in a pristine environment and study how your existence there destroys it .
beautiful .
are you advocating not advancing science because science itself has a negative effect ?
dr. daniels asked , fascinated .
she hesitated before answering .
in some instances , yes .
lt. richards watched her from across the table .
he knew she was directing her anger at him as the most likely target .
that could not be helped , as he clearly represented everything she most cordially hated .
still , understanding her feelings wasnt the same as being immune to them .
he wanted her to see him , but she only saw what he represented , and that was something he didnt really support , either .
atkinson was surprised .
i cant believe that .
as a scientist , you have to believe that the increase in human understanding is the most important thing .
it is only through discovery that we can gain the knowledge that will allow us to balance human life with the ecosystem in the long run .
im not so sure , dr. daniels said , caught up in the abstruse argument .
susan has a point .
the effect of mcmurdo station on the mcmurdo sound has to be considered a microcosm of the planet as a whole .
it will require a total paradigm shift in how people view their world to change the effects .
pretty hard to get the whole world to do anything , alistair said .
no one is going to want to change everything until it doesnt cost them to do so .
true , dr. atkinson allowed , and developing countries who dont share our prosperity wont sacrifice the chance for it by putting restrictions on themselves for what could be considered abstract theory .
they are going to have to , susan said with finality .
no one is going to do anything until they are forced to , and that includes government .
it is environmental activism that will get the people to push the politicians to act .
the lieutenant cleared his throat .
what ?
susan asked , daring him to answer .
until those groups tone down the rhetoric and sound more credible , nobody in the mainstream is going to pay much attention to them .
hell , even the socialists spouting their party line dont sound as immersed in their ideology .
not that there is anything wrong with the message , he added quickly .
it just needs to come across as more reasonable .
the others at the table admired his courage , if not his discretion .
and what would you have us do ?
she asked him , challengingly .
me ?
i would have our government make a massive investment into developing alternate forms of safe and inexpensive energy , then heavily subsidize the new technology until it can be commercially viable .
then we guarantee our own long term strategic independence from oil producing countries , clean up the environment , and produce a whole new industry for america to export at the same time .
and we dont have to ask americans to give up their lifestyle as a concession to the environment .
we create a new and better way to have the same things .
susan stared as if she were looking right through him .
are you serious ?
she finally asked .
of course , he said , calmly folding his hands on the table .
it had clearly never occurred to her that he , of all people , or anyone who wore the uniform , could possibly have such a view .
then why ?
she started to ask .
because i dont want to see this place ruined any more than you do , he said , but if that is what it takes to guarantee our security until we dont have to do those things anymore , then that is what we have to do .
but i hope that we can eliminate the need for it , eventually .
dr. engen continued to stare at him until she got up and walked out , an altogether different look suddenly having come over her , as if her most deeply held conviction had just been turned on its head .
chapter 9 beardmore glacier camp trans antarctic mountain range the camp received notice the next morning to expect a german flight crew , which was going to be transiting the camp after dropping a group of scientists in a nearby mountain range .
they had a reporter with them who was to meet a group of skiers attempting to reach the south pole , by way of the beardmore glacier .
the german media had the blessing of the nsf , and , therefore , its support , but the skiers were ngas and , technically speaking , were not welcome at any u.s. stations , and were banned from any sort of hospitality other than humanitarian assistance if they should find themselves in peril of their lives .
in actuality , non governmental agencies , especially adventure travelers , were welcomed as heroes by station personnel at all bases .
the dornier aircraft made as gentle a landing as could possibly be expected and taxied gracefully to a stop at the edge of the camp by the fuel bladder , where it seemed to have the expectation , politely , of being satisfied .
it was an attractive aircraft , and the crew was either well matched to the plane , or else something of its nature wore off onto those who flew her .
they appeared at the hatch with broad smiles , showing none of the natural reticence of people arriving as strangers at anothers home .
in contrast to the flight crew was the reporter who accompanied them .
he wore a stubble beard of jet black , which formed a broad arc around what could barely be perceived to be a chin recessed beneath it .
his nose took on the aspect of an unripe and misshapen strawberry , or one that was beginning to turn color on one side , thanks to the sunburn on pale skin .
the dissonant features distracted from what should have been his main attribute , the small , but piercing eyes that distrusted , and were distrusted , by all whom they encountered .
jake was waiting by the fueling station for the aircraft to power down .
as everyone else was busy , he formed the welcoming committee .
susan was presently on the lower reaches of the mountain , not needing his help .
the pilot , who like the rest of the flight crew , was wearing bright red mountaineering bibs under a red parka , went to a small cargo hatch in the rear of the plane , took out a package , and then followed the others into the hut .
assuming that jake was in charge , he presented the package to him .
please accept on behalf of crew , he said .
thanks , jake said , somewhat at a loss .
what is it ?
dont know , he was answered with a wink .
but , be careful whatever .
curious now , jake opened the box and took out one of twelve bottles of clear liquid .
we was coming south through americas when stopping at tierra del fuego .
bernard there , the pilot said , pointing to his crewman .
got it off indians .
bernard , the navigator , shrugged and smiled sheepishly .
we understand it is illegal in the united states , he explained , which may have something to do with things appearing quite differently after a couple of shots .
that got the cooks attention .
he came over and began to sniff at the bottles with a connoisseurs interest , and when he recognized that he held a rare and extraordinary treasure , he shook with an exaltation that came out as half snort and half laugh .
he cradled one of the bottles in his arms as a mother would her firstborn .
sweet , jake said , approvingly .
as a mountaineer of note , jake had been able to secure the position of guide for susan engens project through the same application process , as either cook or mechanic might do .
he was in the employment of the nsf by proxy , as the support staffers were all hired by a civilian contractor .
unlike the scientists , his purpose for being there , other than to get paid , was strictly limited to either fun , adventure , or both , and he categorized activities under those headings , though he allowed for the possibility of one overlapping the other .
he did not , however , take those priorities any less seriously than the scientists did theirs .
as a professional adventurer , himself , jake understood the intimacies of frontier hospitality to an exceptionally high degree .
it would have been an unforgivable breach of etiquette not to open up and polish off at least one of the bottles before engaging in any other business .
that would not be a problem for him , since he didnt have any other business .
prost , the pilot said , looking jake in the eye as was proper while toasting .
skoal , he replied , which was not a technically correct response as it was a scandinavian salute , but the germans allowed it .
jake offered the bottle to the reporter as a matter of course .
scheiss , the reporter said , scowling in what was not really a toast at all , but he took the bottle and applied himself to it liberally .
by the time the researchers from the mountain began filtering in at the end of the day , the hut was in a regular state of mayhem .
connie and walt came in first , and being college students , were able to recognize a party when they saw one and required no prompting to join in .
dr. atkinson came in next and was scandalized .
he had already left for the day when the call came to alert the habitants of the pending visit , and it took several explanations to satisfy his inquiry as to how the camp came to be in this state .
at the pilots insistence , he tried the liquor and in order not to offend , declared it to be not without merit , though he still considered the whole affair to be an entirely disreputable display .
alistair , however , was charmed .
after two years away from civilization , he hadnt lost his edge and soon had the students uproarious with his off color anecdotes .
walt was trying to organize a can can line on one of the tables .
jake was still engaged in his role as master of ceremonies when susan entered the hut .
he saw her come in and , seeing how tired she looked , for a short moment thought he heard a whisper of conscience speaking to him .
she wasnt wearing the sling anymore , but her recovery was not entirely complete , either .
as her guide , he felt responsible for her general well being , suspected that he had been derelict in his management of it , and decided upon an immediate rectification for any real or imagined failings on his part .
he considered the nearly empty bottle in his hand disdainfully and set it aside in favor of a fresh one .
before she could shed her parka at the door , he had his arm slung over her good shoulder , and gesturing with the bottle held firm in clenched fist , made glorious professions of pure platonic attachment .
he poured forth all sorts of nonsense in a rush which made her laugh at his earnestness .
the funnier she found it , the more ardent became his declarations .
he gave her a loud and long kiss on the cheek .
what the hell happened to you ?
she asked , pushing him away .
im sorry , he said , looking deeply into her eyes and seeing right past them , not noticing that he was keeping his balance by leaning on her .
its my fault .
i shouldnt have let you fall .
then you would still be okay .
i am okay , she said .
youre the one whos a mess here .
no youre not .
i know youre not .
not with everything going on .
but were going to fix everything , right ?
susan could see an ill advised indiscretion coming as the door opened again , and lt. richards was there , stomping his feet and knocking off snow from his boots before coming in .
you !
jake roared over the din .
shed be fine if it werent for you !
the lieutenant looked around the hut , trying to take in what was going on and find some sort of context for the unprovoked attack from someone with whom he had previously gotten on quite well .
all right now , susan said , steering jake away from the door , toward the back of the room .
you stop that , right now !
she adopted the manner of the domineering spouse , which she took up in response to his farcical advances in the hope that it would get through to him .
it did .
uh oh , jake said when they were away from the entrance .
am i in trouble ?
youre damn right you are , she said , grabbing him by the collar .
dont you dare decide for me when i have a battle to fight , and dont you dare try to fight it for me .
i can take care of myself .
do you understand ?
sorry , he said sheepishly , sobering up for a moment .
give me that , she said , grabbing the bottle away from him .
what is this crap anyway ?
i dont know , but it sure is good .
she took a long drink from the full bottle .
she held it out and looked at the label while it settled , and then brought it to her lips again .
not that bad , she conceded .
suddenly , a drink seemed like a very sensible idea .
forgiven ?
he asked .
get the hell out of here , she said , but kindly .
she kept the bottle .
when he was gone , lt. richards found his way to her .
im sorry if i did , but did i do something ?
he asked her .
no .
i mean , yes , she said .
you didnt do anything yourself , but he is upset about what you are here to do .
we all are .
she didnt want to have this conversation , but with jake putting his foot into her mouth , she wasnt left with much choice .
i know , he said .
i feel stop , she said before he could say it .
lets not do this right now .
here , take this .
she held out the bottle for him and he was too much the gentleman not to take what was offered .
whoa !
was all he could say , after letting the mysterious distillation slide down his throat .
i know what you mean , she said , smiling and taking back the bottle .
what do you say to a truce for the night ?
i never felt like we were he began before she interrupted him again .
just say yes , okay ?
please ?
she asked him .
she was tired and the stress of the previous weeks was wearing on her .
a night off from worries would be a welcome distraction .
okay , he said , but his eyes made it clear that he didnt feel a truce was necessary , not on his part .
good , she said , handing him back the bottle .
thanks .
the impromptu party continued on towards its natural apex when the door of the hut opened from the outside .
there in the threshold stood the three forgotten travelers who were on their way south to the pole .
they were as surprised as the revelers in the hut .
hullo , one of them said to the hushed room .
you dont mind if we come in , do you ?
he asked .
the room exploded in cheers and greetings .
the three were pulled inside with poundings taken on the back .
their sledges and skis were left where they had been dropped and in minutes , they were as drunk as the rest .
the reporter looked embarrassed , but determined to make up for it by monopolizing the three as much as he could .
as the party went on , he remembered that he should make a report and asked the weatherman who worked the radio if he could borrow the wireless .
he was taken to the bench where the transmitter sat , entered in the obscure frequency he required to reach the relay that was set up , and made contact .
he gave the particulars of the arrival to the voice on the other end , which took it all down .
then , he was asked if he could speak privately .
the reporter looked around and saw that the weatherman was the only one within earshot .
americans all stink like pigs , he said in german .
when there was no response , he said into the microphone , go ahead .
he listened intently for some time before signing off .
he was suddenly in very high spirits .
the camp came to life slowly the next morning .
the three travelers had placed their tents just to the south of the hut and the ski way .
the three domed tents added to the brash overflow of color where the growing population made their sleeping quarters .
they each had their own tent , wantonly disregarding common practice , sacrificing weight for comfort .
just as the early explorers had teams of men to make caches of supplies along the route , these modern pioneers had caches laid out by aircraft that had been chartered for the task .
it was more a matter of finance than survival when it came to supplies , and they would not be in danger due to lack of food or fuel , unless some disaster was unexpectedly encountered .
the extra weight was not something to be regretted , since their goal was somewhat more inclined towards enjoying the journey than merely living through it .
the aromas that wafted to the lee of the camp and over the tents occasioned a stirring from within as breakfast , something they had not experienced in some time , was served .
the cook greeted them as they came in , still in the same boisterous spirit of the previous evening , which seemed inhuman to anyone who didnt know him .
once started , it could be days until he came down .
once down , it could be days before he was again civil .
the reporter and the flight crew also came in , laughing off the lingering effects of the nights festivities .
they asked the skiers their intent .
as much as we would like to stay a while , the leader said , we need to get on our way .
storms have put us behind schedule and we need to make up time .
we will be packing up shortly .
the reporter turned to the pilot of the dornier .
do we need to leave right away ?
since we are here , i would like to report on the camp and the science projects they have underway .
the pilot shrugged .
dat is fine for me .
flying with a hangover was not altogether unfamiliar to him , but if he didnt have to , he would just as soon not .
jake asked the leader of the ski expedition to show him their route on the map and the two engaged in talking shop , each recognizing the other as a professional .
he committed all that he heard to memory .
one never knew when one might get the chance to put it to use , and he knew there was no such thing as useless information .
the reporter joined dr. atkinson over coffee .
he , too , was a professional at what he did , which was to extract information without the subject knowing it was being extracted .
since the subjects generally were aware that the questioner was a reporter and , therefore , obviously probing for knowledge , it required a great deal of skill to uncover what one might wish to keep hidden .
he would not find dr. atkinson an especially difficult target .
as a professor , it was not in atkinsons nature to try to bury the truth .
he didnt say anything that directly gave anything away , but he didnt have to , since the questioner already knew what he wanted to know and only required confirmation .
it was what was not said while one was inquiring about certain things that told all .
an easy story to write , thought the reporter .
he took several rolls of film around the camp .
with the proper words applied in just the right way , every picture could be made to tell a very damning story .
the skiers departed during the afternoon , hoping to get a few miles underfoot before camping again for what they referred to as the night .
they would soon find themselves on the plateau , and not long after , would lose all visual reference except the sun and the horizon .
the long haul over the highest and coldest part of their journey was coming .
from there on , it would be a question of mental toughness .
not being able to see where they were going , or where they had been , would mean that they would navigate by compass mounted on the sledge harnesses that they drove , and a watch .
go for so long , stop go again , stop go again , and again .
time would have to replace distance for the senses , which would not be able to realistically measure the ground covered by marches .
by astrological observation , they would be able to mark on the map the actual distances traveled , but it would seem academic to minds that couldnt confirm the knowledge in any other way .
the pole would be attained by so many marches then one less , then one less , then one lessuntil they were there .
the dornier lifted out of the valley later in the morning after giving the camp crew a quick tour of their neighborhood from the sky .
they disembarked , the reporter got on , and they left .
after the plane went over the ridgeline , those who waved goodbye went into the hut where the operator reported to mcmurdo that the aircraft was inbound .
they sat quietly until jake looked at the cook , puzzled .
its not exactly in your nature to buddy up like that to transients .
why did you ?
other than the booze , that is .
the cook gave the question earnest consideration .
they were less like assholes than most who come through here , i guess , he tried to explain .
got me in a soft spot .
me , too , jake painfully pointed out .
my head .
good , susan said , walking by briskly .
be ready in ten minutes .
we have work to do .
yes , dear , jake said .
it wouldnt be his first time working with a hangover , either .
chapter 10 russian station vostok antarctic plateau it was awkward for trevor .
reading the letter that was intended for his fianc over the radio was an uncomfortable exercise , especially with three bored russians listening intently , each nodding as if in agreement with every sentence , though none understood a single word .
jake , who had promised trevor to relay his letters for him , managed to say got it after each line without inflection , which made it as easy as it could possibly be presumed to be .
there is a flight tonight .
ill get this out to mcmurdo .
they will send it over the satellite to a guy who will mail it from there .
whole thing shouldnt take more than a few days .
thats awesome , jake .
thanks , really .
no problem , jake said over the radio .
beardmore is all clear .
vostok out , trevor replied .
he turned to his audience .
enjoy that ?
he asked .
they nodded again seriously without comment .
he sighed and headed for his bunk .
sokolov was not in the room and he stretched out on the bed .
it was harder than he thought it would be .
when he was offered the chance to work there , he didnt hesitate .
he told his fianc that it would only be for a short time , and then the postponed wedding could take place when he got back .
hed expected to do his work , let time pass , and then go home .
it didnt work out quite the way he had hoped , however .
day and night cycles had gotten out of sync since there was no perceptible difference between the two , and once again , he was wide awake in what should have been the night , tired beyond exhaustion , imagining the worst sort of fantasies .
he was desperate to get home , terrified that if he didnt , quickly , it would be too late .
he tried to focus on something near at hand to take his mind off what he was sure was happening there without him , and couldnt .
he got up and went to the galley , where it was almost bearable to sit with the others and converse .
he found sokolov there alone .
so , youre leaving in a couple of days , he said .
i sure wish i was .
sokolov waved his hand dismissively .
you have not been here long enough to have such thoughts .
i would agree , however , that it was perhaps a mistake to have come here when you have such pressing business at home .
i had no such complications .
on the contrary , it was in my interest to be removed from there as quickly , and for as long , as possible .
what will it be like when you get back ?
trevor asked .
despite his preoccupation with his own thoughts , trevor had come to think of sokolov as a friend , and having discovered how the man felt about his life in soviet russia , he was concerned for the scientists welfare when he returned .
he felt something akin to guilt by having allowed sokolov to express his frustrations to him , he was afraid that he had contributed to the russian losing the ability to suppress them .
the same as before i left .
nothing ever changes .
not what i meant , trevor said , empathy helping to soften his own worries .
i know .
they sat in silence for a moment , each nurturing their own concerns .
youll have a pretty cool trip back , anyway , trevor offered .
yes .
quite cool , the russian said .
trevor smiled .
he used his americanisms without thinking about it and sokolov adopted them in a manner that defined incongruity .
say hello to my group if you see them , trevor said .
his science project had people scattered at various bases a pair were supposed to be at beardmore for a time .
we may .
that reminds me .
give to me the radio frequency that you call them on so that i can contact them if we are close , sokolov said of the upcoming journey .
sure .
not the best site for what i do , there , i think .
not like here .
but you have to try if for no other reason than to know that it isnt any good .
a good approach , if you have the resources to go everywhere , the russian said .
however , it would seem appropriate to work the areas that have the most promise first .
there must have been some reason why the site was chosen .
true , trevor admitted .
just the fact that there would be support facilities available made it attractive .
one benefit is that it is a very stable area , virtually no flow from the glacier .
what it lacks in depth , it ought to make up in consistency .
another feature of the shallowness is that although the trapped gasses will offer a somewhat reduced record , there should be a higher degree of solid particulate in the cores .
why would that be of importance ?
sokolov asked .
historical reference .
volcanic fallout could help to correlate dates .
less ancient meteor impacts would leave traces , maybe even massive deposits .
biblical events , such as the darkening of the skies , could be given a chance to prove themselves .
it is good to see that you do not have a problem with under reaching , the russian scientist said dryly .
trevor smiled .
cross disciplining is a major theme in our program .
the vulcanists actually came to us to see if we could correlate their presumed dates .
they were themselves approached by the theology people .
glaciology and atmospheric chemistry overlap so much that they are becoming the same discipline .
you must see that in your work .
cosmic physics and nuclear applications overlap , dont they ?
sokolov winced .
do not remind me .
for an instant , the ghosts began to emerge and pulled their darkened veils across the russians countenance before he stopped them .
have you seen the machine we will travel in ?
he asked , changing the subject .
only from here .
get your coat .
they went out into the blinding sun and walked over to where the huge machine was parked .
they went around to the sledge that was attached to it with a ball hitch , like a trailer to a truck .
erected on the skids was a large platform .
on the platform was a heavy tent shelter that led trevor to muse that this was the russian antarctic equivalent to the covered wagon .
inside was a well ordered living space with bunks , a kitchen , and table .
on a sledge attached to the pullman car , as he unconsciously dubbed it , were supplies piled and tied down with cargo straps .
the train was ready for departure as soon as the decision to go was made .
it looks like a fun way to travel , trevor said .
it is not such fun as it looks , sokolov replied .
where the surface snow is soft , it is reasonably easy going .
where the sustrugi is hard , the pulling vehicle can not flatten a road and the assembly rocks horribly from side to side .
it is difficult to avoid seasickness at these times .
oh .
the romance of an overland journey dissipated rapidly for trevor at that time .
being sick from wallowing on frozen seas , while at the same time being sick with worry in the middle of absolute nowhere , was not at all appealing .
a quick , direct flight was what he required .
well , have fun anyway .
it is not for fun that we go , sokolov answered .
the lieutenant waited for the grad students to go out of the hut to get their gear together for the day before he sat down at the table where susan engen was reviewing notations on a topographical map .
she looked up over the rim of her glasses at him , allowing an almost imperceptible smile to slip across her lips for an instant .
may i ?
he asked after he was already seated .
sure .
she continued to look at her map while he thought about what he was going to say .
she knew he was uncomfortable and was enjoying his discomfort .
dr. engen , he began , before stopping .
susan works just fine , she said .
he nodded vehemently , as if he had just absorbed a most pertinent fact .
susan , right , he began again .
susan , he began a third time .
at his third awkward attempt , she giggled .
just spit it out , okay ?
right , he agreed .
well , what im here to do , you know all about that , of course .
i do , she told him , with only a small degree of disapproval , which he had to consider as nothing less than encouragement .
you of all people no doubt recognize that the chances of finding anything in this area are beyond remote .
she nodded .
the chances will be far greater on the coast and on the shelf , he explained .
she cleared her throat as a way of informing him that if he was doing what she thought he was , he was going about it in the wrong way a message that was not altogether lost on him .
be that as it may , he said hurriedly , and as we will be here for a little while longer , i was wondering if i could join you while you worked .
maybe help a little , in the meanwhile .
wouldnt that be something like going over to the enemy ?
she asked him , but in a friendly tone of voice .
you arent the enemy , susan , he told her warmly .
no , she said quietly , looking into his eyes .
you are .
he turned his eyes away from her and looking down at the table , nodded .
but i would love to have you with us and could really use the help .
he looked up again , brightly .
just leave the bulldozers behind , okay ?
she said .
sure thing .
it actually did help , she thought .
having lieutenant richards handling the theodolite freed her up to write her notes , which made things a lot easier .
working with tools , then changing to paper and pencil at those temperatures , made what would otherwise seem like simple tasks very difficult .
her shoulder was getting better , but it still slowed her down .
he was clearly expert enough with the instrument that she could trust him to take accurate angles on the correct points that she identified .
she pointed to a spot on a ridge that had a black line running through it .
what is that ?
he asked .
igneous intrusive , she said of the rock formation .
the shearing effect of the uplift of this fault has exposed it in relief .
its like slicing off a chunk of wafer cake .
you see each of the layers clearly , where once they were at consistent levels .
he nodded .
good spot for this .
she looked up from her notes and smiled .
you think so ?
he remembered where they were , what they were there for , and the incredible expense and trouble it took to get there .
oh .
she smiled again .
it is as good as any place i have ever been , she agreed .
including places down here that ive heard of , but not seen .
and beautiful , too , he added .
yes .
too bad that there are some who would like to redecorate it , she noted .
he sighed under the thick scarf that he was wearing .
there was no getting around it if he was going to be spending time with susan engen , he would just have to take the bull by the horns and have it out .
susan , you know i dont favor drilling here .
at least i would prefer not to , he said .
i know that , she conceded .
the difference is that you are willing to sacrifice it all for something , a position that could be considered noble except for the fact that it is predicated in naivety .
nothing noble will come of it .
just another place ruined so someone can make some money .
i can argue against that , but what about what you believe ?
you want to leap directly from what has always been the way to some form of futuristic utopia , he said .
at least i am offering a solution that makes sense , and is possible .
theoretically possible , she corrected him .
the problem with your theory is that it involves getting the people who have the most to gain to go along , and not take advantage .
the fact is that people will only change when they have to , either by law , or economics , or force .
in the end , it will be less painful for people to make changes rapidly and get it over with .
i know that how we live is going to change it has to someday .
but the potential end results are vastly different .
he tried to sound reasonable and not upset the delicate balance he had achieved .
i suggest a long term plan that will enhance the quality of life and maintain a stable economy .
your view of the world sounds like you would place severe limits on peoples quality of life and stifle the economy .
a lifestyle based on consumption , you mean .
she , in turn , tried to sound professorial .
weve developed a lifestyle that equates quality with quantity consumed .
oil isnt the only issue .
its everything .
until we can establish a lifestyle that is consumption neutral , that doesnt deplete more than we as a whole can regenerate , the problem doesnt go away .
i dont think so , he said , earnestly trying to make the point without emotion coming into play .
we take our problems one at a time .
when we put our collective will to solving any problem , we always get the job done .
why not take them one at a time ?
because that is the point of our having one ecology , she said , glad to finally get to the heart of the matter .
this biosphere , in which we live , is a single organism .
you cant just chop off the head one day and then deal with all the problems created by that as you get around to them .
look at your own work with nasa .
say you do establish a station on the moon .
you can only have so much resources , can transport so much food , make so much water .
then you get a few people up there who devour three times the amount of food you have budgeted and take half hour showers when you can only make enough water for a two minute navy shower .
the rest of the station sees their share of the stations resources being decimated .
dont they have the right to demand that the abusers modify their behavior ?
that is a different situation .
how ?
she demanded to know .
because it is like the military , he explained .
there are different rules than in civilian life .
fewer individual rights .
that is because an individual who acts outside of a defined mode of behavior has a negative impact on the whole , right ?
she had led the discussion many times in her classes .
she knew how it went .
otherwise , who cares ?
so you would redefine what constitutes allowable behavior ?
he asked stiffly .
we do that every day in a free society .
free doesnt mean life is a free for all .
the very nature of self governance dictates that government limits what individuals are free to do when one persons actions impede upon anothers .
no , he said , shaking his head adamantly .
thats the easy answer , sure .
government can do all kinds of benevolent things for us , cant it ?
just give us the power , they say .
youll see .
everything will be so much better .
but i dont want to live in that world .
sorry .
youre being paranoid now , she said dismissively .
and you are the one who is nave , he retorted .
she laughed .
what ?
i dont know .
it seems funny that you are the one who is arguing against giving the government more power .
thats my line .
i thought that military people loved government authority .
he shook his head negatively .
no .
we go into the military and surrender our rights for one reason only to defend yours .
well , i guess we are just going to have to agree to disagree , she said , thoughtfully .
not true , he said .
we are in complete agreement on the problem .
we just havent come to a consensus on the solution .
she nodded her head .
i can live with that .
as the day was winding down and the researchers who had been working on the mountain began to filter back toward the camp , susan engen and lieutenant richards lingered .
over the past hours , he had helped her to move the theodolite several times , and when he did , their bulky parkas made contact unexpectedly , surprising each of them , as they were not regularly accustomed to the extra padding that removed the buffer that would normally be there .
when it first happened , they each quickly and awkwardly apologized to the other .
the second time , they laughed and whispered meaningless comments , like oops .
by the third time , they were anticipating the contact and were slow to disengage .
now that the students had gone , they shed all pretense and rubbed mittens over puffy nylon sleeves that made the whirring sound of nylon on nylon .
after another awkward interval , their heads bent towards each other and their goggles knocked together , eliciting nervous giggles all the way around .
susan gave up on physical intimacy for the moment and pushed him back to arms length .
this is going to be complicated , she said , referring to the nature of their relationship , not the technical aspects of getting around the volumes of clothing .
it doesnt have to be , he said , with an earnestness with which he appealed to her to believe that what he said could be true .
why should it be ?
a million reasons , she started to explain .
to be honest , most of them are professional .
but there are personal reasons , too .
i wasnt looking for this .
hell , i was doing everything i could to avoid something like this .
and then theres you , of all people .
he seemed to accept the you of all people comment as inevitable .
he was not the sort of man who would normally allow any allusion to stand that would infer that he was in any way inferior .
but when he was with susan , he acknowledged and surrendered to her sensibilities regarding the environment and his supposed role in its demise .
it was his original sin in their new relationship , and for which he was uncharacteristically willing to atone .
and then theres me , he repeated .
what are you going to do about that ?
youll see , she said , reaching up with her head tilted to one side and avoiding another collision of the goggles .
i know just what to do about that .
chapter 11 somewhere on the antarctic plateau the russian tractor had been plowing its way through the sustrugi , over the highest portion of the polar plateau , on its way toward the transition where the ice picks up speed and flows into the beardmore glacier .
this was where the group would conduct the meteor search .
gregore held the map , produced by the u.s. geological society , on his lap , trying to pinpoint their location .
the progress they made each day was tangible and satisfactory , but as they neared the transition where the ice was forced into channels , it would become more dangerous , and they would need to slow down .
the funneling of stable ice into streams produced , without variation , fields of crevasses .
sokolov sat next to gregore .
they both looked beyond the transition on the map to the x that marked the spot where the americans made their base at the beardmore .
though it was unknown to the other , they each planned a visit to the station , though for vastly different reasons .
gregore pulled on the drivers sleeve from the seat behind him .
we will stop here , he yelled over the engine noise .
the driver immediately let the throttle in , and the track vehicle slowed to a stop .
he shut off the engine .
good .
enough of this endless vibration .
we have made good time , this way , sokolov said .
they had run almost constantly since leaving vostok , the drivers taking shifts in attempting to sleep in the shelter on the platform .
but we need to prepare for the next part , gregore told him .
sokolov did not think of disagreeing , since it was imperative that they make a stop sometime soon .
tell the men in the back that we will take a break here to fuel and maintain the machine .
we can make a decent meal also , gregore told the driver , who nodded and got out of the cab .
sokolov stretched as well as he could in the confined space .
i will check the ski , he told gregore , who agreed .
when you are finished , come into the shelter , gregore commanded .
very well , sokolov said .
he took a shovel from the cargo bed and carefully removed the buildup of ice around the front ski .
the ski worked as a steering mechanism , though not the only one .
the main directional control was done by braking , slowing one or the other of the tracks , a maneuver that created drag on that side , pulling the vehicle toward the side on which the brake was applied .
the primary function of the ski apparatus was to act as a shock absorber for the forward half of the machine .
there was a large piston strut attached to the ski that performed that function .
if it were to fail , the ski would become uncontrollable .
sokolov worked quickly .
there was an exposed bolt that was just out of sight enough to be missed in a casual examination , but without being well secured , it would eventually lead to the piston coming free .
an excessively hard jolt would make it break loose .
he figured it would hold for several kilometers , but then it would inevitably fail .
when it did , the party would be stuck until a new part could be brought to them or assistance could be rendered .
being this close to the americans , it would be absurd to do anything but call them for help .
he loosened the bolt , his heart pounding in his ears , with a large crescent wrench , listening for anyone coming around the machine .
when he finished , he put the tools back quietly and went into the shelter on the trailing platform .
an unusually good meal was being served , considering the circumstances .
cabbage soup , salted beef , black bread from a can .
it was reminiscent of home .
very well , gregore said to the group when sokolov joined them .
i have waited , on moscows orders , until now to tell you about a small alteration in our plans .
before we proceed to the area of scientific interest , we will make a treaty inspection at the american base .
we go merely as a courtesy .
we will not be there long , and will only announce our arrival just before we come in .
sokolov did not allow the surprise he felt to show on his face at least no more than was expected .
a treaty inspection ?
yes .
it is our right as a signatory nation .
a political statement .
sokolov acknowledged the statement as a matter of course , but he reeled at the news .
all the risk he was taking was for nothing the same result would have come from doing nothing at all .
he thought that he might undo what he had started , but then he would have to take the same risk again .
in fact , by sabotaging the piston , he might have ruined his chances of getting to the base .
what if the equipment failure were to dictate a different course and the visit was cancelled ?
he must go back to replace the bolt .
he stood up , as casually as he could manage .
relax , vladi .
we will leave as soon as we have another cup of tea .
but i no .
stay .
we will go together in a moment , gregore said , trying to be friendly .
sokolov sat back down as there was nothing else he could do .
the zipper on the flap of susan engens tent inched open , the clasp stealthily sliding for a few inches , and then stopping .
a glance was given in both directions and when no one was seen , the zipper ripped through the rest of its course and the flap was thrown fiercely to one side .
the male figure leapt through the aperture and the zipper was again torn shut .
the sound of the booming footsteps receding into the distance telegraphed their story as clearly as if it were shouted from the roof top .
after a decent interval , the tent flap opened again and susan emerged , walking unhurriedly into the hut .
she went to the table where jake was seated .
good morning , she said .
good morning , he replied back to her before asking , how are you feeling today ?
i feel fine , she said naturally , but she couldnt help becoming defensive anyway .
how are you feeling ?
jilted , he said , pathetically .
oh , good grief , she said , while falling into the chair .
already ?
by saying already , she meant that her secret was already being churned through the rumor mill .
jake shrugged and turned his palms upward , indicating that it was nothing less than what should have been expected , as well as pointing out that he was not to blame , all condensed into a single gesture .
would you like me to prepare a scarlet letter for your parka ?
he asked .
this isnt funny , she said forcefully , her temper getting the better of her , even though she knew it was her own fault .
oh , but yes it is , he said , a mischievous glint now lighting up his eyes .
for you , maybe , she said , but i assure you it isnt for me .
the dichotomy that existed in her feelings was hard enough for her to explain to herself it was hopeless to think about how others would perceive her .
here she had found someone who was representative of everything she opposed , yet who , as a man , she discovered to be warm , open , charming and correctable where the politics of the environment were concerned .
she sensed that she would be perceived as a hypocrite , and that was not a pleasing thought .
she pondered upon that image for a moment .
not a word , she said .
to anyone .
darling , jake told her , i think that particular cat is already very much out of that particular bag .
maybe not .
maybe youre the only one with a mind that leaps to such conclusions .
he shrugged again , sighing .
first , you make me a cuckold , and then you enlist me to help keep your secret .
what kind of woman are you ?
he asked , clearly enjoying the moment .
the kind that will throttle you if she finds you spreading gossip thats what kind .
conflicted or not , she was not about to lose her inexorable sense of purpose , even when she was on uncertain ground .
couldnt you have dumped me for someone a little less conspicuously from the other side ?
you could end up tarred and feathered , as well as having to wear the mark , jake said , persisting in driving home the dual message of his somehow being an injured party and highlighting her treason to her own cause .
hes not on another side , she said , disputing her own argument in order to defend her new found lover .
he doesnt want this , either .
i see , jake said , judiciously .
what other revelations have you had during the night ?
nothing that needs to be explained to you , she said , putting the proper exclamation point where it belonged in reestablishing the unequal nature of their relationship .
she didnt really feel that way and she didnt fool him for an instant , but by creating a diversion , she was able to retreat far enough to make a space where she could regroup her mental forces and prepare a new strategy for moving forward .
very well then , doctor , jake said .
i await your orders .
chapter 12 beardmore glacier camp trans antarctic mountain range after having received further assurances from jake , promises extorted under threats unimaginable to an unafflicted mind , susan found connie and walt and departed for the work site on the mountain .
the lieutenant followed with studied nonchalance to carry on with the work he was engaged in the day before .
jake remained behind with alistair adams and dr. atkinson , as they had planned to inventory the cargo line as the first step toward planning the final portion of the expedition .
jake was looking at them without speaking , a list of materials in his hand .
which one of you geniuses came up with this ?
he finally asked .
dr. atkinson was offended .
i did .
is there a problem ?
he asked stiffly .
not at all , as long as you dont mind becoming a permanent feature of the landscape , jake said .
that is ridiculous , dr. atkinson retorted .
i have been doing this since before you were able to crawl .
this is right .
what we are going to be doing is something that hasnt been done since the igy , and it has never been done with light equipment .
you cant take all of this , jake said , spinning the paper through the air so it made a soft landing in front of dr. atkinson , who considered the action insulting .
what specifically do you find to be the matter ?
alistair asked .
you guys may be really smart about some things , but this doesnt seem to be one of them , jake told the two ph.d.s ' who looked at each other and grinned .
very well then , old chappie , alistair said , patting him on the shoulder .
since you seem to have the proper handle on things , well leave you to go about your business .
cheerio .
call us when you have it all done .
carry on .
the two scientists left him looking very smug , having pulled off the oldest trick in the book .
if someone insists they can do a better job of something , let him .
not that he minded , really .
hed just been given the task of planning his own expedition across the transantarctic mountains .
it was a first for the nsf , to allow a field party to return to mcmurdo from the polar plateau by descending one of the longest glaciers .
the science was invaluable , but the story that it would tell would be even more precious to an agency that survived on funding from a skeptical congress .
who cared that it would be done with light equipment ?
how many people could say that they have traversed that country with light equipment ?
none .
as far as he knew , only sir edmund hillary had gone up any of those glaciers aided by any mechanical device , and that was with a very large tractor .
if mechanized travel was good enough for the first man to top everest , and the first man to traverse the antarctic continent , it would have to be good enough for him .
outside it had begun to blow .
it was pleasant to be in the hut , though when the wind blew , it sucked the heat out through the many cracks in the plywood .
the shelter wasnt constructed to be of permanent quality , and it was equally stifling when the wind did not blow and the sun baked on the walls .
the spindrift swirled outside of the clear plastic window , the sun making it brilliant a kaleidoscopic vortex of countless prisms in motion .
the journey would take them from the glacier camp back to mcmurdo through the mountains not traveled since robert scotts ill fated , successful , though fatal , achievement of the pole .
as guide , jake would manage the route , the equipment , and the consumables .
he relished the thought of it .
keeping students from falling off ledges was fine work for the journeyman , but this was what he was born to do .
epic adventures untried in the annals of human endeavor .
rather than diving into the work at hand , he contemplated the satisfaction that would be afforded him from its successful outcome .
his peers would be beside themselves with envy .
he would assure them that it had been nothing , while feeding out tidbits of heroic descriptions of the trials managed along the way .
snapping out of the reverie for a moment , he realized that if he didnt get some work done , there would be no successful conclusion , and dedicated himself to paring down the list provided by dr. atkinson .
kitchen sink , he read aloud in disbelief .
there actually is an honest to god kitchen sink .
priceless .
he tore through the item with a red pen and continued on .
lets see .
theres me , alistair , and atkinson .
thats three .
susan is four , and four is a good number .
two tents , two alpines .
but now we have the lieutenant .
that ought to be good .
so now we have three tents , three alpines , and two people who , if things go one way , will be happily having a marvelous time of it in their own private little heaven .
if it goes the other way , they make everyone elses life miserable .
actually , its miserable for everyone else no matter how it goes .
shit .
this is going to suck .
he threw the pen onto the table and rubbed the stubble on his chin .
blossoming romance was always irritating , he thought , but it was doubly so in a small group when everyone else was forced to witness it whether they wanted to or not .
it usually was not , unless they owned a sadistic streak that thrived on watching other peoples tender agonies .
that happened sometimes on expeditions .
this was exactly the kind of scenario which he had been taking such pains to avoid with susan all along .
if she were going to pull something like this anyway , it might as well have been with him , he thought .
hed worked hard enough for it , or against it , whatever .
it didnt matter .
it was the principle .
jake decided at that point to give the whole thing a rest and headed for the mountain to catch up with susans group .
he found them on an open face .
try not to step on that , walt told him .
there was a string line laid out on the rock that he hadnt seen .
what is it ?
jake asked .
bones .
we radioed our paleo guy that we found something .
hes on his way .
jake stooped to look .
it was difficult to see at first .
he was sure he would have missed them if someone hadnt pointed them out .
they were small pieces imbedded in the sedimentary rock .
they looked like they might have been birds .
jake asked him if that was what they were .
no .
at least not yet .
these things are old .
before dinosaurs as we know them .
if they are what i think they are , they are small mammals .
because of how they appear , people thought they were reptile for a long time , but later they were shown to be mammal .
or maybe its the other way around .
they do look like birds .
the whole thing has a lot of people all confused .
i guess i can join that group , jake said .
its a pretty good group , walt said .
whats that thing ?
jake asked .
there was a round rock with orange markers all around it .
obviously , no one wanted to miss that piece .
there was nothing especially interesting about it at first glance .
it was , in fact , remarkably unattractive , as far as rocks went .
possibly the most important thing we find this season .
those are fossilized critters from the dawn of time .
the dawn of life , at any rate .
these are what emerged out of the famous primordial soup .
see these things here ?
they look like small invertebrates packed in with algae .
this stuff is as old as it gets .
you measure the age of these things in the billions of years .
jake tried to feel the passing of billions of years by looking at the rock , but it didnt do any good .
how did it get here ?
he asked .
probably came loose from the highest part of the mountain and was deposited here by glacier movement .
wheres the doc ?
jake then asked the student .
up there , walt said , pointing toward a small outcropping above .
he began to climb straight up the mountain , bounding from ledge to ledge .
it felt good to be ascending and he would have just kept going except that he soon met the pair on the higher ledge .
the lieutenant was making notations while dr. engen was taking the angles .
hi , jake , the lieutenant called as he approached .
he seemed to have forgiven jake his tirade from the recent party , in recognition that it was partly thanks to jakes self induced derangement that he was able to open the door to susans heart .
greetings , fellow thrill seekers , jake hailed them as he approached .
having fun ?
susan eyed him suspiciously , as if she were concerned that the question portended some mischief that he always seemed to have at the ready .
were making progress , she answered , leaving the ambiguity as to what her meaning was lingering in the air as a warning .
so i see , he replied , throwing the tactic right back at her , but without pressing the advantage .
he nodded toward the florescent tape on the rock .
what are you marking ?
more fossils .
the place is loaded with them .
she couldnt help flashing an accusatory glance at the lieutenant who dodged her gaze .
even jake knew that the more signs of fossil deposits they found , the more credence that would be given to the theory that fossil fuels lay somewhere below .
so i hear , jake said .
what are you doing ?
susan asked him .
just out for a stroll .
was working on the trip back to mcmurdo , but then i needed to try and get some air , he told them .
any luck with that ?
susan asked .
she was still angry at him for enjoying her suffering .
a little bit .
the three of them just looked at each other , waiting for someone to say something , so jake took the hint and went on his way .
he carried his skis on his pack with the plan that when he got to the top of the spur , he would descend the slope that fell off the other side of the mountain where he knew it was relatively crevasse free .
he shook his head as he walked .
why does everything always have to get weird ?
he wondered .
jake knows , susan told lt. richards .
about us ?
he asked .
yes about us , she snapped .
is there something else he ought to know about ?
when he didnt respond and only looked to her with a questioning look , she relented .
im sorry , she said .
you didnt deserve that .
he nodded .
i understand your frustration , he said .
do you ?
she asked , with an attempt at a laugh that succeeded only in making her voice waver for an instant .
can you ?
i can try .
if you tell me how , i can try .
yes , you can try , she admitted .
but can i tell you how ?
that is a much more difficult thing .
is it so hard ?
he asked her .
what you hope for , what you want for your work , your lifethats what makes you who you are .
how can i not love that ?
love ?
she asked , the surprise in her voice unfeigned .
its been one day and youre using the l word on me already ?
it hasnt been one day for me , he said .
i think it started for me that first morning when you jumped up and fought so passionately about my project here , and my working with you .
you were mad as hell , but i loved your spirit .
what , are you some kind of masochist or something ?
i could have scratched your eyes out right then , she said , but with a half smile and with her eyes flashing blue from beneath eyebrows crinkled in amusement .
even with the wind blowing on the sunny side of the mountain , the rocks radiated enough heat that she could wear her goggles over her forehead on the outside of her wool hat .
stray strands of blond hair escaped their confinement like sparks that lit up her now bronzed face , darkened from the wind and sun .
in the stark bleakness that made up all of the landscape , she stood in relief , impossibly beautiful .
it isnt my eyes that have scratches on them right now , he said , rolling his shoulders under his parka .
my back is sore .
now she couldnt hold back a laugh from deep inside .
oh , my , she said in pretended embarrassment .
was that me ?
it certainly was , unless i am very much mistaken , he said , wanting to build on this moment of lightness from her .
dont be so sure , she said contemplatively , the moment already slipping away .
that may have been somebody else who thought they were me .
and that gave voice to the fear that he knew was lurking beneath the surface for him that the one who dug her nails into his back to keep from screaming into the silence for all to hear was a different susan .
the susan who would lose the battle for supremacy within her the susan whose ambitions and passion for her cause would supersede all other considerations .
the fear that his hopes were doomed from the start that he could not triumph against such powerful forces aligned against him .
but he had to try .
and he knew that expressions passionate in their fervor would only give strength to the voice that whispered into her consciousness , telling her that this was wrong .
so he fought within himself , restraining from giving into the compulsion to go to her , to hold her , to tell her how much he needed and wanted and had to have .
his weapons were few , and limited in their strength , and had to be deployed carefully and sparingly .
he chided himself for having said what he did .
it was an error in judgment and not only did it weaken his cause , it was insensitive for he knew the confusion of feelings that she must be experiencing .
he determined not to make the same mistake again .
well , if she happens to show up later , i wont complain , he said , knowing that this was his only option , to avoid meeting the other voice within her in open conflict where some conclusive decision might be made .
evade and skirmish was his tactical plan , the only one available to him .
she might , she said .
she just might .
in the evening , when the shadows were on the other sides of whatever created them from where they were in the morning , the light seemed to become diffuse and it washed over the sustrugi .
the camp was just far enough north of the pole that the sun took an ever so slightly elliptical orbit through the heavens and dipped closer to the mountainous horizon just enough to extend its rays to where it gave the minutest impression that twilight was on its way .
in the weeks to come , the sun would eventually succumb to the forces that dictated its course and it would slip ever further below the ridge until winter came to the continent and darkness would again descend upon the ice .
it was , however , just enough of a change to give the inhabitants of the camp the sense that there really was an evening , even though the sun still blinded from the reflection off the snow .
it was into this not quite evening that the expedition members , weary from their toils of the day , found their way to the tents to bed down for the night .
susan , rolling up her maps and stowing them in their case , left the hut where she found lt. richards hovering by the entrance to his tent .
what are you doing ?
she asked him .
he seemed to vacillate , unsure of himself in a way she had not experienced before .
i dont know , to tell you the truth , he said .
why not ?
she asked him .
she had an impish manner that came out when she was feeling playful .
because i dont know what to do , he said .
about what ?
you , to be exact , he said .
i didnt want you to think that i was assuming too much by just coming to your tent .
i didnt want to just go into mine because i was afraid you would think i didnt want to be with you .
standing out here and waiting is stupid , because i look like an idiot .
so , i repeat , i dont know what im doing .
well , thats pretty much what it looks like , too , she said , teasing him , but grabbing the lapels of his parka and pulling him close anyway .
he looked around anxiously .
dont do that , she said .
what ?
see whos watching .
i dont want to do that .
everyones going to know anyway , if jake hasnt told already them , and i dont want to pretend they dont .
are you sure ?
he asked , his voice suggesting that there were many questions , not to mention hopes , implied in the answer .
yes , she said , smiling without any mitigating shadows fleeting across her eyes , a look of peaceful satisfaction he hadnt seen from her before .
good , he said .
me too .
susan unzipped her tent flap and lowered her head to slip through the opening , having sent the lieutenant to his tent to get his floor pad and sleeping bag .
while he was retrieving them she pushed her things to one side to make room for him .
she chuckled to herself at the thought of it .
she was still wearing her mountaineering boots and all of the outer clothing .
she would wait for his return to make up the bed and then carefully sweep out the snow that was inevitably dragged inside before even thinking of exposing socks to the risk of getting wet , a serious issue that could lead to frostbite .
it was not exactly the setting for a steamy romantic adventure .
yet when she thought of last night , she shook her head and whistled .
it had been incredible .
she couldnt remember ever losing herself in the moment like that before .
he really did have scratches on his back .
deep ones .
but he didnt flinch when her hands tore into his flesh , not at all .
rather , he slipped his hands under her arms and around her back so that his palms cupped her shoulders from behind , and the more she dug in her nails , the harder he pulled back on her shoulders , driving her closer to him until she relaxed her grip .
only then , and only after crushing her tightly as if he would never let go , did he begin to loosen his hold .
he bent down and brushed his lips to where his fingers had clasped the tiny shoulders as if he feared he had hurt them and wanted to show that this was not his intent .
her lips had crossed his fingers that were now free to show that she understood .
the flap opened and he passed the voluminous sleeping bag through to her and waited for her to get it zipped together with hers .
when was all in order , she gave the go ahead to pull off his boots and to knock the snow off before coming in , which he did carefully , leaving his boots by the opening of the tent .
she took off hers and placed them by his .
take off your clothes , she demanded .
now .
quickly .
well , he replied , deadpan thats about as enticing an invitation as ive had all day .
dummy , she said , stopping to kiss him .
i meant so you wont get cold .
get in the sack .
keeps getting better all the time , he said , but he followed her direction and in short order , he was inside the bag with her facing him , her body shivering from the cold nylon on bare skin .
she clung tightly to him , trying to force the warmth of the two of them to multiply as only two bodies together can .
her breasts were firm against his chest , the cold making them rigid .
she slipped gently closer , her abdomen finding his , wrapping her legs around his waist .
there she stayed , waiting for the down feathers of the bags to accumulate the heat that was radiating from their bodies , waiting for the tenseness of the cold to relax and then to be able to breathe easier .
when her shivering stopped , she let out a long breath , and where her chin had been forcing itself into his collarbone , she now turned softly and laid her cheek against his breast .
his lips moved slowly over her silken hair , making her sigh contentedly .
that he could be so strong and firm and at the same time so gentle was something that gave her contentment , a feeling of she had not previously been well acquainted with .
she found herself sinking into that place where she had been the night before , but with the voice in her head still being listened to .
contentment .
how could that have found its way into her heart , here and now ?
it was something she had never been challenged with before , so distant a threat did it seem .
it was the one thing that could derail her ambitions people who were content were not driven .
why should they be they were content ?
was that his purpose for coming into her life , to make her content and to thereby steal away from her the one thing that was most precious ?
she forced herself to abandon such thoughts and drove them away by suddenly reaching up and taking him by the nape she kissed him passionately , almost desperately , as if her life depended on not letting anything be more than that kiss .
her breath became a sigh , and the sigh became a whimper , and with the whimper came a tear that moistened the skin of his breast .
are you sad ?
he asked her .
no , she said .
im happy .
ive never been happier .
i knew that , he said , though it was clear that he didnt .
i just wanted to make sure .
thank you , she said , knowing that he was lying and grateful for it .
she kissed him again , though not with such terrible need .
this time it was with want , wanting to go back to that place she had found the night before .
wanting him to take her there again , asking him , imploring with her lips and hands that now held both sides of his head .
he seemed to understand what she was asking .
he gently slipped his arm around her waist , lifted her from his side , and lowered her down beneath him .
the hand that had raised her now stroked the curve of her arched back and down to her one bent leg .
she moved her lips from his to the lobe of his ear , where she nibbled at it like a rabbits soft nuzzling , an affirmation that he was taking her to where she wanted to go .
now , she whispered into his ear and without hesitation , he moved his hand to the small of her back and adjusted himself to her , gently , so that their togetherness was accomplished with barely a movement .
yes , she said , a general statement that covered all that needed to be said , and to which he need not reply .
as they moved together , she sensed the swaying of the ocean waves though she was barely half an inch from the surface of the ice the rocking that one feels after being at sea .
it added to the vertigo that lifted her away into that distant place where dreams and senses became a single thing of colors and images swirling together .
at the moment when all became one , she clasped his back as she had before , only this time , he couldnt refrain from allowing a gasp to escape .
the sound brought her back enough to realize what she was doing to his already wounded flesh and she let him go , laughing as she watched him struggle between the awareness of the pain of his back and his awareness of her that he held in his arms .
sorry , she said when he came to rest in her arms .
that is something we are seriously going to have to work on , he said .
i know , she said apologetically , but then added , if you didnt make me feel like this , then that wouldnt happen .
he sighed .
ill try next time and make sure that i dont .
she took his head in both his hands and looked him in the eyes .
dont even think about it .
okay .
she turned away from him now , tired from the day and joyfully spent from the night and tucked herself against him in the conjoined sleeping bags .
as she closed her eyes , the contentment began to spread over her consciousness once again , but this time , she embraced it and allowed it to lull her to sleep .
chapter 13 the antarctic plateau , near the glacial transition the driver let out the clutch , allowing the gear that drove the treads to engage at a cautiously low rpm , keeping the vehicle under what he thought was exceptionally tight control .
it would never do to go blindly driving into one of the monstrously wide , and nearly infinitely deep , crevasses that were known to exist in that area .
the map they had was a very old one , an updated version of one of those that were produced during operation high jump in the 1950s .
no one had thought it mattered that the maps were old , since the mountains were pretty much in the same place as they were in admiral dufecs time of the igy .
the crevasses were not , but no one was willing to place too much credence in what a map says about that sort of thing anyway , no matter how current or how good the quality .
at first , the highest peaks of the mountains began to appear over the horizon , growing ever taller , as the caravan moved closer to the transition where the ice sheet channeled into the glacier .
by then , the peaks stood majestically over the river of ice , the tongue of the glacier pointing the way through to where it poured out onto the ice shelf one hundred miles downstream .
gregore was standing up , his body twisting through the window opening so that he could get a better view and direct the driver who hoped that he would fall out and they would have done with him .
it was gregore who had insisted on being the navigator and gave the driver directions , though it was the driver who attempted to point out that by not changing direction sooner , they had found themselves on the wrong side of a river of ice and were now faced with the choice of backtracking for a very long way or finding a ford .
gregore was now endeavoring to prove that he was right by finding the way through the morass .
go right , he said , confidently .
how hard right ?
the driver asked .
right , but not too hard .
how hard is not too hard ?
the driver asked .
political officer or not , the driver would not kow tow in the area of his responsibility to someone who knew nothing .
gregore lowered his head enough to look through the window at the driver .
right enough that you are no longer going in a straight line if you would not like to die an awful death .
oh , that right , the driver said as he pulled up on the lever that braked on the right track .
the machine jerked to the right , the same action translating to the sled it was trailing , to the irritation of those who were relegated to riding in the shelter .
every time the vehicle lurched , sokolov winced as he braced for the inevitable shock that would occur when the piston gave way .
each time it did not , he let out his breath in a long exhale .
vladimir , dont look so frightened .
you must have been down here too long .
you should be enjoying this , gregore teased him , mistaking his pallor .
the driver shook his head .
it is your great intelligence that allows you to understand the stupidity in this , he said quietly when gregore stood back up out the window .
this is the purest madness .
sokolov didnt answer and the driver continued to follow gregores direction until they were nearly clear of the hazard .
once the vehicle passed through the disturbed area , it would be on a gently descending slope that settled onto the glacier .
see , gregore said .
that was not so difficult .
we are nearly clear .
he leaned back out the window , however , to make sure that they were , in fact , clear the rest of the way .
he had not noticed until then that the crevasses he had previously observed were very easy to see because the aspect of their exposure did not allow them to have snow bridges form over their tops .
that was a good thing because they were visible and plain to see .
now that the terrain had shifted , the drifting snow that was driven off the plateau was allowed to settle and form cornices that eventually formed into bridges over the tops of the crevasses , some so strong that a machine the size of theirs could have driven over them and those inside not notice that they had .
that , in fact , is what they had twice just done .
they were now traveling on a straight track onto a neve , a snow field that is distinguished from a glacier in that it does not flow , when gregore observed a sagging in the surface directly in front of them where a massive crevasse had a long bridge over it that was bending of its own weight .
it was only visible because the sun did not reflect on it in exactly the same way as the surrounding area , making the depression seem darker in contrast .
it took him a moment to realize what it was .
turn right , he shouted at the driver .
how hard ... the driver began .
hard , hard , hard , you idiot .
the driver understood the situation immediately and pulled the brake on the right side with as much force as he could .
that action made the vehicle lurch drastically to the right , putting an extraordinary amount of pressure onto the forward ski .
it was inevitable that the previously compromised piston would fail under such stress .
when it did , the weight of the machine shifted to the ski and the sudden pressure made the ski dive and twist then it caught enough to track and lurched wildly to the left .
the sudden swing in direction made the driver loose his grasp for an instant on the brake , but that was all that it took .
the yaw to the left was unchecked and the machine leaped onto the sagging snow bridge that had no chance of supporting the weight .
they broke through and the tractor flew into the abyss .
they were luckier than those riding in the shelter .
still traveling forward when it fell , the pulling machine was just long enough to span the width of the aperture and it wedged itself against the walls a mere twenty feet below the surface .
the sled , however , pulled onward into the opening , immediately aligned itself into a straight downward aspect , and breaking free from the tractor , dove downward into the unfathomable depths , those souls on board never having the chance to understand what disaster had overtaken them .
it was surprisingly dark only twenty feet down .
sokolov , who had been riding in the rear seat , was the most protected of the three and the impact left him shaken , but conscious .
the other two were moaning softly in the front of the cab , but did not immediately respond when he called to them .
he crawled forward in the dark , grasped gregores shoulder , and gave it a shake .
the russian awoke instantly , light and thunder shrieking out from the dislocated arm .
stop !
he shouted .
look to the driver !
it took longer to bring the driver around .
the fall had thrown him against the control bars in front of him and sokolov suspected that he had several broken ribs .
sokolov was at a loss for what to do next .
the first thing that he became aware of was that the engine was dead and that the extreme cold air was pouring through the shattered windows .
time would not be their friend for long .
he stood up as far as he could and unlatched the bolt that closed the top hatch .
then he lifted it enough to be able to see directly upward .
we are less than ten meters down , he informed the others .
what is the difference in that ?
gregore asked .
we have no better way to climb ten meters of sheer ice than we do to climb one in this condition .
it is certainly better than for those we were pulling .
gregore thought of them for the first time .
why ?
because i do not see them at all .
that brought the political officer completely around .
let me see .
sokolov helped him to stand so he could look out the hatch , then to look out the window into the seemingly bottomless darkness .
at the sight of the complete emptiness below , gregore then directed his eyes toward the walls to see how well the vehicle was secured .
it appeared to be firmly lodged in the ice , but it was impossible to know how well .
this is not good , he announced .
the driver actually laughed at the understatement .
no , sokolov agreed .
getting out would be only the beginning of our problems .
is there power ?
gregore asked the driver .
wait , the driver said , working the switches .
yes , but the engine wont turn .
that does not matter .
regardless of his other duties , gregore was , in fact , a qualified radio operator .
he tried keying the microphone and appeared gratified to hear static as a result .
he then looked to the antenna and seemed less pleased .
it had broken off and was dangling by its wire from the front of the engine compartment .
we need to get a long line of wire onto the surface to act as a dipole to be able to transmit a decent signal unless he thought for moment .
vladimir , did you not tell me that the americans are working in this area ?
yes , sokolov answered , the irony that he could not keep out of his voice not understood by the others , who had other things to do than question him .
the same as we are .
meteorites .
on the plateau and in the catchments .
it will be far easier to transmit vhf than hf .
i can extend the wire to the antenna .
if we can throw it onto the surface , it will give a range of one horizon , maybe thirty five kilometers .
they may be that close , sokolov said .
if they have radios and they are listening and we are on the same frequency , we may have a chance .
i have all the frequencies they use .
we need to get the antenna .
sokolov looked at the black whip antenna hanging from the front of the machine .
how ?
he asked .
you go and get it , gregore said firmly .
clearly we can not .
i will give you a rope .
there appeared to be no other choice .
sokolov tied the rope around his waist and crawled over the others and through the opening where the windshield used to be .
the cold metal hood was slippery under his feet .
he lay down on his chest , trying to place as much surface area of his body in contact as he could to keep from slipping .
it was still difficult .
keep the rope tight , he called over his shoulder .
i am .
tighter , sokolov insisted .
let me pull the rope from you .
dont feed it out .
all right .
he inched his way across the hood , trying not to look down or up .
he did anyway and was rewarded with vertigo that made him feel that he was already falling .
he still had to reach over the edge to be able to grasp the wire .
hold the rope firm now dont let any more out .
i need to extend over the front to reach it .
do you understand ?
he asked .
yes , gregore said .
go ahead .
the scientist took a deep breath and stretched his body , keeping his eyes on the wire .
he felt himself start to slip .
hold on !
he yelled .
with his one good arm , gregore braced for the fall .
the rope was around his body and he thrust the fist that was holding the rope between his legs and squeezed with his thighs around his wrist to keep the rope from slipping .
the sudden weight nearly pulled him through the opening , but he was able to hold on .
sokolov found himself dangling over the emptiness that reached up from below .
he was surprised to find the antenna wire still in his grasp .
pull me back in , he said quietly , as if a louder noise might awaken the danger that had him within its grasp .
help me , gregore said to the driver , who despite the broken ribs pulled fiercely on the rope .
when sokolov was back in , he sank back into the rear seat and closed his eyes , fighting off the vision of the bottomless death that had nearly captured him .
it was worse with his eyes closed , so he opened them and looked back into the front of the cab .
will it work ?
he asked .
i think so .
that is the good news .
the bad news is you will have to go back out to try and throw it onto the surface .
sokolov sighed in the back of the cab .
give it to me .
this time , he crawled out of the hatch on top of the cabin .
placing his feet on top of the seats , he was able to extend up to his hips through the opening , a position he found much more comfortable than being on the hood .
would it be better to throw the antenna and leave the wire in a spool on the roof ?
he asked .
or have the wire hang down and let the antenna pull it up as it goes .
neither .
throw the whole thing at the same time .
the weight of the coil will help carry it over the top .
very well .
he practiced the motion of throwing the antenna assembly several times .
when he was confident that he could do it on the first try , he took three deep breaths and let it fly .
it carried well over the edge .
dr. daniels removed his thumb from the throttle of the alpine , allowing it to come to a stop .
he used his other hand to turn the key and kill the motor .
he wondered for the thousandth time , why he didnt rig some system that didnt require his thumb to freeze holding the lever for hours on end , then for the thousandth time forgot about it .
he looked around and unconsciously nodded to himself .
well camp here , he told the group .
the portion of the voyage that took them onto the plateau was past , and they had crossed the transition from the plateau onto the glaciers that flow to the coast .
this was to be the last camp before returning to the hut .
he decided to stop there to reconnoiter the catchment , a place that a glacier flows into with no outlet , where meteorites accumulate throughout the ages .
he was looking for alistair to see if it would be worth his making a trip .
in an established routine , the students began to unload the sled , one of them arranging the tents , another undertaking the excavation of the cooking pit .
daniels himself took several bamboo poles , planted them in an x figure , then ran a wire from pole to pole .
the antenna would be attached to the hf radio in his tent so that he could report in to the main camp .
he forgot that he had the vhf radio underneath his parka where it stayed warm in order to extend the battery life .
they used the vhf while they were working so they could coordinate the movements of each other .
it would normally be turned off in camp .
mayday , mayday , mayday .
does anyone copy ?
over , he heard coming from under his coat .
the clear sound from the hand held radio jolted him to awareness of the harness on his chest .
the students all looked at him with blank expressions .
he fumbled with the zipper of the red parka .
station calling , say again your last , he replied cautiously , keeping the alarm out of his voice .
we have a mayday , sokolov said over the radio .
since gregore spoke almost no english , it fell upon the scientist to try and relay the message .
we are trapped in crevasse .
where are you ?
where are we ?
daniels mused aloud before answering .
how the hell am i supposed to answer that ?
he chose a different response .
we must be close or i wouldnt copy your transmission , he replied .
where are you ?
who are you ?
he added .
we are from vostok in transit to make a treaty inspection at the beardmore camp , the radio announced .
nice of you to tell us youre coming , daniels grumbled off the air before he remembered .
are you the group looking for meteorites ?
he asked .
that is correct .
we didnt know about the inspection , he told them .
it was a last minute decision .
i am sorry for that , but we now have more pressing matters .
of course .
do you have your last known position and direction of travel ?
he waved at one of the students to open the map .
then , to the others , pack the sleds back up .
except for the radio .
our position is wait one moment .
he had gregore look for the position and relayed it .
we were traveling to the southwest on grid just crossing the transition .
dr. daniels had the map now , and he followed the lines to the point on the map that represented the location he had just received , and made a pin mark on the spot .
he whistled softly to himself .
okay , russia .
i have the position .
we are around ten miles , or fifteen kilometers , from that location .
what is the condition of your personnel ?
four are missing , presumed dead .
two injured , not too serious .
one unharmed .
we are around eight meters down .
son of a bitch , daniels said to himself , again off the air .
okay .
hold on .
well get things going .
depending on how it goes , we may be able to get there in a couple of hours .
thank you .
we will keep this frequency open , the scientist said in closing .
do you think we can get there at all ?
the grad student with the map asked .
not easily , daniels admitted .
however , we dont have much choice but to try .
he then wired the hf radio to the antenna that had already been set up and hailed the camp on the beardmore .
beardmore , beardmore , beardmore .
this sr32 , how copy ?
the words spoke out over the radio .
barry , the navy weatherman assigned to the expedition , was at the console monitoring traffic in between observations that he called into mcmurdo every hour when flights were anticipated .
he had been on round the clock operations , snatching naps between the hourly calls , and was bleary from sleep deprivation .
the voice brought him back to alertness and he was grateful for it , a momentary distraction from the monotony of his fatigue .
got you all fivers , doc , he said , trying to sound cheerful .
he had a carefully developed reputation of always having a joke ready , but since they were almost uniformly all bad ones , he came to be treated as if it were he that was the joke , which was not his intent .
barry , dr. daniels said , is dr. atkinson there ?
probably somewhere , barry replied , trying to be helpful , but without actually helping .
yes , well , i can tell you to an absolute certainty that he is somewhere , the ancient professor told him pointedly .
but the question is , where he is exactly ?
even over the radio , barry comprehended that dr. daniels was in no mood for word games and asked him to stand by .
ill go get him , barry said .
good , daniels replied .
no , wait .
barry , are you still there ?
lets see , its been almost half a second , where do you think id be ?
he asked , without keying the mic .
then he said , still here , doc .
good .
try to call mcmurdo first .
tell them that we have a situation , and to try and get everybody together as soon as possible .
whos everybody ?
barry asked .
everybody they would want to have on hand if something really serious happened .
gotcha , barry said .
after calling into mcmurdo and rattling the cage of another weary weatherman who was at the communications console there , and who was handling barry the same way that he handled everyone else , which barry refused to tolerate , he went out into the frozen sunshine that burned his tired eyes .
he found dr. atkinson unpacking his alpine snowmobile with alistair and jake .
dr. daniels wants you , barry said .
he sounds pretty worked up .
worked up , is he ?
dr. atkinson said with the voice he used for dismissing students ' petty concerns .
daniels isnt one to get worked up so easily .
maybe not , barry told him , but he is now .
he had me round up everyone in mcmurdo to stand by for a relay .
humph , dr. atkinson said , showing that he was not going to get excited after being dismissive of the idea that daniels was .
that is somewhat irregular , i must say .
indeed .
i suppose we had better go see .
the three went into the hut , leaving barry to follow , which he did after rolling his eyes and shaking his head .
but he then went quickly before any of them could get to the radio , which he considered his domain .
sr whatever you are , ah32 this is beardmore .
how copy ?
barry said into the mic .
i copy you just fine , dr. daniels answered .
does mcmurdo copy me ?
dont know .
lets see , barry said .
break mac center , this is beardmore .
how copy ?
copy all , copy all beardmore , the voice reciprocated .
then you copy sr32 ?
he asked .
negative , was the reply .
well then , what the hell was with the copy all ?
barry raged at the unkeyed microphone before slipping back into his professional radio voice .
roger , center .
please be advised that i am now acting as relay .
please stand by .
a firm .
standing by , the voice said .
go ahead , doc , barry told dr. daniels .
everyone by the console settled down to listen .
when he finished , they all sat in stunned silence .
barry , please give me the microphone , dr. atkinson said .
ill do it , barry said .
no .
i am the chief scientist on station that makes me senior nsf person on location .
let me talk to mcmurdo .
all right , barry said , not wanting to give it up .
arthur , are you there ?
dr. atkinson asked , seeing if dr. fredricks was at the other end of the conversation .
yes , stephen , a voice replied .
im here with the captain .
good , '' dr. atkinson said .
then he took a deep breath and told of the events as he had them from dr. daniels .
when dr. atkinson finished relaying his story , everyone with him sat in silence waiting for a response .
when one didnt immediately come , he gave the mic back to barry , who was incapable of sitting and waiting for a reply , so he began to speak .
mcmurdo , he said into the mic .
dr. daniels is currently departing his location to begin rendering assistance .
over .
by emphasizing the word over , he was implying that he expected someone to respond .
roger , a new voice answered .
copy en route to render assistance asap .
over .
well need to get something going from here , too , jake told dr. atkinson .
beardmore , you need to get a team moving from there , too , over , the radio announced .
thats a firm , barry replied .
ill go get susan and the lieutenant and take them with me .
you should stay here and coordinate , jake said to dr. atkinson .
susan ?
dr. atkinson asked .
why ?
because she is far and away the most experienced climber in camp , jake told him .
after me , of course .
dr. atkinson thought about that for a moment .
so you anticipate that you may have to go in ?
we know they are a little ways down now .
dr. daniels should be able to get them out on his own , but who knows what happens between now and then .
yes , i see your point , dr. atkinson said .
all right , but be careful .
always , jake assured him .
chapter 14 washington d.c chuck stoddard held the newspaper in his hand at the national science foundation office in washington .
he was too thunderstruck even to be angry .
how der spiegel got this one was beyond comprehension .
there was no doubt regarding the authenticity this time .
the photos depicted all of his grantees in wonton acts of drunkenness , and generally acting like idiots .
the caption disregarded the fact that the reporter was there to cover the skiers passing .
it was clear that the american personnel were debauching themselves in an exact characterization of what the group was supposedly doing to the environment .
it was a marvelous piece of misrepresentation .
that , of course , was beside the point .
he was suddenly and acutely aware that his ass , as the common eulogy went , was grass .
his one point of consolation was that the situation couldnt possibly get any worse .
it was then that his door opened and the undersecretary of state came in with the congressional navy attach .
are you aware of the situation at the beardmore glacier ?
the secretary asked .
stoddard decided to take it up front .
he threw the paper on the desk in front of the two .
i am .
the two men looked at the paper , then back to the director .
the secretary cleared his throat .
yes .
well , charming as that may be , that is not what we are talking about .
theres more ?
stoddard blurted out .
the secretary looked at the attach who answered the question .
that , he told the director , is the least of your problems .
hows that possible ?
he asked .
thanks to your peoples ability to keep quiet down there , the russians have no doubt concluded that they needed to come and see for themselves , the attach said .
they had a science team in the area and diverted them to beardmore in order to conduct a treaty inspection .
there isnt much they can see , the director replied cautiously , finding something positive to cling to .
the undersecretary waved that off .
theyve had an accident .
word came through mcmurdo .
two teams from the area are converging on the scene .
the director was shocked .
ours ?
both , the attach said .
do we know anything about what happened ?
crevasse , the undersecretary said .
big one .
several dead and injured .
they must be in an awkward position , the director mused , coming to catch us at something they arent going to like , and then having to thank us for rescuing them .
moscow doesnt know yet .
the director looked up .
doesnt know yet ?
thats correct .
that is why we are here , the undersecretary said .
we think you should make the call .
the director saw some hope .
if he was needed for this , then maybe he wasnt finished just yet .
when ?
now .
the same russian official who had seen the first story in der spiegel now looked at the second .
despite the typical hyperbole that seemed to be the only manner in which that publication was capable of communicating , and the obvious misrepresentation of the photos , the grain of truth that he suspected was confirmed beyond doubt .
they had a man on the ground there .
not even this paper would print something that they couldnt back up , at least a little bit .
it appears as if we were correct , he said to the junior minister who had been sent over .
our people should be there any time now perhaps they already are .
we should have good information soon .
it is amazing , the young diplomat said .
how can they think that we will not contest this action ?
in the name of conservation , of course .
if they do this , we will be left with little choice but to intervene .
and they still continue to insist that we act irrationally .
i confess that i share your consternation .
what do we do now ?
he asked .
i have been ordered to join you here so that you can contact them through this office .
because your position is generally considered by them not to be political in nature , we feel that we can express an opinion that will get the message across without reflecting official policy or sounding overly threatening in nature .
while , in fact , it is both , the official clarified .
exactly .
the man sighed heavily , not bothering to hide his distress .
for a scientist to reach his position , there were many concessions that had to be made , and he had gone in with his eyes open .
despite his institutional atheism , he had to allow that a certain analogy fit .
his soul had been sold long ago and now the evil one was coming to collect .
very well , he said .
when ?
right now .
he steeled himself for the unfamiliar role of diplomatic negotiator when the intercom on his desk buzzed .
he looked at it like it had materialized out of thin air .
yes ?
he asked , wondering who was foolish enough to interrupt him at this time .
director stoddard from the national science foundation is on line one , the box announced .
the two men looked at each other .
it may be that they know that we know and are attempting to preempt our making the first call so they can say that they were not trying to hide anything , the junior minister said .
if we take the call , then that will have worked , wouldnt it ?
the official asked , hopefully .
you must not give them the chance , the minister said .
answer the call , then immediately inform them of our displeasure at what we have discovered .
very well .
he picked up the receiver .
hello , charles .
thank you for calling .
it is a pleasure to hear you , especially since i was just preparing to call you myself .
on the other end of the line , the three men looked at each other .
you were ?
stoddard answered and then waited for a reply .
the other two men gestured vigorously at him to keep talking , but it was too late .
indeed , and i regret to inform you that we are most unhappy to learn about your countrys intended exploitation of the antarctic continent .
the treaty is intended to avoid this type of confrontation and it is very dangerous for your government to begin circumventing international law in this manner at this time .
we have sent a group to your area to conduct a treaty inspection .
i expect you will continue to comply with that portion of the agreement .
the russian junior minister allowed his lower jaw to drop before recovering enough to gesture the other man to stop .
the official put his hand over the mouthpiece .
you idiot !
what are you doing ?
what you told me to do , he answered .
what else ?
i told you to register an opinion of concern , not to declare world war three .
calm down !
the minister held his breath , waiting for the reply .
in chuck stoddards office , the three looked at each other .
he pressed the mute button .
what the hell ?
these guys are pretty worked up , he said .
more than they should be , the undersecretary said .
have we missed something ?
they are like , ten steps down the road .
tell him that you have read the article , that it is completely false , and then tell him we know about his people and then about the accident .
try to settle him down .
you say so , stoddard muttered skeptically .
he pressed the button on the speakerphone to end mute .
wait a minute , the attach said .
stoddard pushed mute again .
that was as bellicose a statement as ive ever heard come directly from the russian government .
we cant roll over on it .
they will consider us weak and acting out of weakness .
i agree that you need to calm him down , but you have to be firm while you do it .
all right .
stoddard pushed the button on the phone again .
doctor , we have seen the story in the papers that you have certainly seen by now and i want to assure you that it is absolutely false .
however , that does not give your government the right to interfere where our interests are concerned .
this nation will not be dictated to .
i hope we are clear on that .
the undersecretary came half out of his seat , making a chopping motion with his hand across his throat .
he mouthed the words , too strong !
in two rooms on opposite sides of the world , the diplomats who were tasked with diffusing what had appeared to be a minor international scuffle were now deeply regretting their choices in allowing scientific bureaucrats to carry out dialogue of a diplomatic nature .
what should have been a simple conversation was rapidly escalating into a major incident .
it was , however , too late to stop it and they had no choice but to see it through .
dictate !
stoddards russian counterpart said over the phone .
you would lecture me on dictating a peoples destiny ?
the very act that you deny is an attempt to dictate our destiny to us .
our people will be at your camp shortly .
i demand that your people disclose everything they are doing to them at that time .
we will await their report .
doctor , that is , exactly the reason i have called you in the first place , stoddard said .
we have been in contact with the group that is in transit to the beardmore camp .
it seems that they have met with an accident .
i cant give you the complete details but we have two rescue teams on the way right now .
he told them what he knew about what had happened .
the two russians looked at each other in shock .
what had started out as a complete disaster had suddenly taken a major turn for the worse .
could you repeat that ?
the russian asked .
stoddard did .
the russian covered the mouthpiece again .
could they have met with foul play ?
the junior diplomat asked .
i am beginning to believe that anything is possible , but please , lets not jump to any more terrible conclusions .
we will know shortly if there are survivors .
if there are , then they can tell us the truth .
if there are not , then we will have to speculate .
very well then .
i am sure , however , that we will take other action than just wait to hear what they say .
and you are no doubt correct , the russian scientist said , relieved that someone else would be making those decisions .
into the phone he said tersely , we will conclude now .
please contact us the instant that you have more information .
you have my assurance , stoddard said .
he , too , was relieved to be through .
the alpine followed dr. daniels track as fast as jake could drive , which made for a less than pleasant ride for susan and lt. richards , both of whom rode on the train of nansen sleds , which were being pulled by the alpine .
the sleds were named after the famed norwegian explorer who nearly a century earlier had sledged across the arctic .
exceptionally well suited to working in the antarctic , they were everything except comfortable to ride on at high speed .
jake had piled all the rescue equipment onto one sled , then attached three others in tandem , in the hope that the missing russians could still be rescued and brought back to camp .
then he drove up the track to the work site to find the two .
he called to them to get on the sled .
why ?
susan asked .
ill tell you on the way .
in most parts of antarctica , the snow accumulates so little that tracks made in the sustrugi can remain for years .
dr. daniels ' outward track was like a highway for them to follow , and they moved rapidly over it with little fear of the untoward overtaking them while en route .
they sped as rapidly as the conditions would allow , and in a matter of a couple of hours , they approached the area where the accident had occurred .
then they slowed down , picking their way through the hidden crevasses .
they were soon able to see daniels ' caravan of sleds , at what must have been the lip of the crack , where the victims had fallen in .
they arrived just in time to see the last of the three russians , who were riding in the pulling vehicle , coming over the edge .
good to see you , daniels told them when the engine stopped .
one didnt spend as many years on the ice as he had without having acquired the skills to extract a victim who was within a climbing rope distance of the top of a crevasse .
the three russians were now on the surface , and dr. daniels ' students were making a camp to get them warmed up and treated for their injuries as best as they could .
jake went to look them over as soon as the sled stopped .
what do we have ?
lt. richards asked of dr. daniels .
three apparent survivors .
two injured , not too seriously .
one okay .
they looked at the three russians , who looked back , but so far had said nothing though they looked relieved to be out of the ice .
survivors ?
does that mean there are some who didnt ?
susan asked .
so it would appear .
the pulling vehicle got wedged fifteen feet or so down .
these three were in it .
they were pulling a sledge that went in behind it .
no sign of them .
this one is deep , daniels told the three .
how many on the sled ?
susan asked .
four .
they walked cautiously to the edge and looked over at the wedged vehicle .
the pure emptiness below it was all the evidence they needed to verify the story .
then they approached the russians , and wasting no time on introductions susan inquired , is there anything you can tell us about the others ?
sokolov answered since the driver spoke nothing but russian , and gregore only knew a few words of english .
nothing .
we tried to call , but there was no answer .
did you hear anything during the crash anything at all that might give some indication of how far down they went ?
susan asked .
i am afraid not .
between our own impact and the sound of the engine , there was nothing , sokolov told them .
jake thought for a moment , and then looked at susan .
what do you think ?
he asked .
it cant go down forever , she replied .
theyre there , somewhere .
true , jake agreed .
but how far ?
the question is , how far can we go , before we have to turn back ?
exactly .
how much gear do we have ?
susan asked jake .
depends , jake answered thoughtfully .
how much protection are we willing to live without on each rappel ?
wait a minute , lt. richards said , realizing what they were talking about .
youre not seriously thinking of going in there , are you ?
you cant be .
i dont see how we have much choice , she answered .
four men went down there .
we may be able to save them .
jake hesitated while examining the russians injuries for a moment , and watched susan and the lieutenant .
he knew what the lieutenant was thinking had to be thinking and felt sorry for him .
he also felt relief that he didnt have to feel that way , and silently congratulated himself on having the good sense to have avoided falling in love with susan from the beginning .
then he considered for a moment , and knew it wouldnt make any difference to him .
whats the point of being in love if you cant descend into a bottomless crevasse on a daring rescue together ?
he knew that any relationship he was in that didnt have that dynamic would be doomed from the onset anyway .
then again , just about any relationship he was in would be just as challenged .
say something , jake , the lieutenant said .
jake looked up and saw them both staring at him .
he had stopped paying attention halfway through their discussion .
about what ?
he asked .
tell her that she cant do this , the lieutenant said imploringly .
didnt you already try that ?
jake said .
he didnt want to get in the middle of this and he knew better than to try and talk her out of it anyway .
besides , he needed her help .
the victims needed her help .
they had to at least try .
thank you , susan said .
then , turning to lt. richards , she said , dont worry .
were pretty good at this .
well be all right .
susan reached the bottom of the sixth rappel and twisted a hollow ice screw into the deep blue surface of the glacial ice .
since the walls of the crevasse were shear , smooth ice , there were no places they could find to stand for a moment and rest .
this limited how far they were able to descend , since each rappel required a minimum of three screws , placed in what was known as an abalakov , or v thread .
if that were not the case and there were outcroppings of some kind to perch themselves on , they could use two screws per rappel , but since each placement was required to support the weight of both climbers , it just wasnt possible .
the blackness of the dark was nearly complete .
it was an odd situation made odder , due to the fact that she hadnt known anything remotely close to darkness for weeks .
the crack of light from the surface was just barely visible some three hundred feet above .
there was still no sign of the sledge , and the walls were still smooth and straight .
it seemed as if it could go on like that forever .
when she was comfortable with the placement of the anchor , she hooked a carabineer to the screw , and looped an extra pair of webbing slings through the carabineers .
while they were short of screws , there was no lack of slings , and she didnt want the last seconds of her life to be spent in self recrimination for being stupid .
she attached herself to the slings , took her weight off the rope , and moved it onto the anchor .
when that operation was complete , and she was satisfied that he had done everything correctly she was perfectly aware that most climbing fatalities were due to simple mistakes , she called to jake to begin his descent .
how does it look ?
jake asked from above .
about the same , susan answered .
when jake got to where susan was anchored , he went through the same procedure with the easy , fluid competence of someone who had performed the task countless times .
she watched him work , trying not to flash him in the eyes with the beam from the light that was mounted on her climbing helmet , instead pointing it towards where he was working , adding the light to his own .
thanks , he said when he was done .
dont mention it , darling .
jake chuckled .
save it .
well discuss all that later .
besides , im trying to be mad at you .
of course you are , susan said , cajolingly .
despite the gravity of the situation , there was no avoiding the adrenalin driven thrill of descending into an environment few , if any , had ever been in .
again she was brought her back to her days of climbing in boulder , when climbing for her was more a state of existence than an activity .
once she was on the rope her senses became sharper , her awareness greater , almost euphoric , though controlled and channeled .
and the conversation always took on a jocular , almost bravado tone , though uniformly light and humorous .
it was easy to slip back into that mode .
susan watched the light from jake 's helmet as he descended deeper into the chasm , listening to the tinkle of the metal tools knocking into each other .
after a few moments , the chinking of the implements stopped and the light seemed to go out .
go ahead and come down , she heard from below .
ive got something .
she began rappelling down to where he was .
when she was nearly there , she saw what jake had found .
is there anyone in there ?
she asked .
the sledge was wedged between the walls that began to narrow at that depth .
it was upside down , and what was left of the tent portion was hanging from it .
i cant tell yet .
get situated so you can give me a belay .
okay , she said .
susan used the last two screws to anchor herself .
she then fed the rope out from her harness , which was the normal belay procedure , to jake .
if he were to fall , the stress would translate up the rope to susans harness , and then to the screwed in anchor .
there is a chain of reliance the anchor , the slings , the harness , the carabineers , the rope , the other person 's harness .
all of these must perform without fail .
the climbers themselves are part of the chain , but mostly they provide the brains , or as susan knew , the lack thereof .
im going to try and walk out and look over the other side , jake said .
that seems to be where everything in there ended up .
keep the belay tight .
got it .
belay on .
jake leaned on the rope , letting susan provide enough tension on it so he could walk almost vertically downward .
when he got to where the tongue of the trailing sled was , he balanced gingerly on it , stepping from there onto the main platform .
then he let himself sink over the side of the sledge .
okay , hold there , he shouted up .
susan stopped letting out rope .
what do you see ?
for a minute , jake didnt answer , but susan could hear him ruffling around in what was left of the canvas that was piled at that end .
nothing , he said finally .
coming back up .
when he was standing back on the frame of the sled , he stood for a moment .
theyre gone .
everythings gone .
i guess we should start back up , then .
there really wasnt much else that could be said .
yeah , i guess so , jake agreed .
jake started moving back over the framework .
it was more difficult walking up on the frame his crampons were slippery on the cold steel .
there were braces on the frame where the points of the crampons could grab tenuous hold , and he took a long step to reach one .
the sled must have been precariously balanced the pressure of the step was enough to make it shift and jake had not yet gained a firm foot placement on the metal .
the settling movement of the sledge was enough to make him lose his balance and he began to fall .
falling !
he called out , which was the correct thing to do , though it was perfectly obvious to susan who watched his every move .
susan instantly changed her posture from belaying to bracing , grasping the rope in both hands and driving them between her thighs .
squeezing her legs together as hard as she could , she prepared to take the impact before it came .
when it did , her grip on the belay performed perfectly .
the stress on the system worked its way back up the chain .
the rope held .
the figure eight held .
the harness held .
the slings held .
the screws did not .
the first one exploded out of the ice and caught her in the corner of her mouth .
she could hear the tooth break under her lip .
the weight then transferred to the second screw , much of the shock already having been absorbed by the first one , but not enough .
by the time it broke free an instant later , susan was able to assess the situation .
making sure that she had her feet square against the ice , she waited for the screw to give out before she pushed away from the wall with as much strength as she could apply .
she saw that jake had fallen on the same side of the sled as she was on , and that their only hope would be in her being able to launch herself over to the other side of the steel tongue of the sled .
and to hope that it held .
she waved her arms like a long jumper , trying to hang in the air long enough to clear the tongue .
she made it by bouncing off her rear end and somersaulting ass over teakettle to the far side .
though she was still falling , she knew that if she were to live long enough , she would regret that last maneuver .
she grabbed the rope that held jake , and hugged it .
as quickly as she could she placed a carabineer over the rope on both sides to make sure that she didnt get pulled over the top , and they were secure .
susan and jake hung without moving , catching their breath .
you okay ?
jake called from below .
could be worse , i guess , she answered .
her words were garbled from the blood in her mouth , but it was her hinder quarters that absorbed most of her attention .
she would never again use the expression pain in the ass , '' without serious consideration of what she was saying .
can you tie off the rope ?
jake asked .
hang on .
she anchored the rope that jake was still hanging from and shimmied up the tongue until she was by the wall .
the last two screws were still hanging from her harness .
she twisted them into the ice and called for jake to come up .
he climbed up the rope , using the prussic loops that were attached to the rope .
the prussic maneuver is used to ascend a vertical rope .
two loops of small gauge rope are folded over themselves a couple of times , which makes a sling that tightens with pressure and loosens when freed .
the climber who has fallen can use one loop on the rope to make a foothold .
the other is attached to their harness .
by shifting their weight back and forth , from the foot loop to the harness loop , a climber can ascend straight up the rope .
you look beautiful , jake told her when he saw what the failing screw had done to her mouth .
let me see whats going on there .
i think it looks worse than it is .
you can forget about examining me where it really hurts .
i broke my ass on that sled .
i am the closest thing to a doctor there is around here , my dear , jake said , forgetting all about their current predicament , and id be derelict in my duty not to make a thorough examination of any problems of that kind that arise .
not going to happen .
you ready to get out of here ?
jake looked up .
four hundred feet of pure vertical .
this is starting to turn into a long day .
i would have felt bad if you didnt get all you bargained for , susan said , glad to have the subject changed .
that was a pretty close one .
when its your time , its your time , jake said .
maybe it was your time , and i just happened to be attached to the other end of the rope .
ah , a conundrum , jake said , amused .
if its my time and we are on the same rope , does your being there postpone my demise and cheat death , or do you get to come along for the ride ?
i think you make your own time and im not interested in having you make mine , susan said .
pay attention to what youre doing , and lets get going .
very well , then , jake said .
belay on .
by the time they crested the lip of the crevasse , they were both too tired to joke .
chapter 15 beardmore glacier camp barry , the weatherman , leaned back in the chair , his feet up on the table , earphones draped over his head , static filling the void .
his hands were clasped behind his neck and he looked at the ceiling in the posture of one deep in contemplation .
the only thing lacking was a coherent thought , but he was sure one would be coming soon .
beardmore , this is the chalet , how copy ?
the female voice in his ears announced .
barry fairly jolted out of the chair , his foot sending the mug of cold coffee across the room .
he lunged for the volume dial with one hand and ripped the headphones off with the other .
nothing but 5s , chalet , he answered after he collected himself and the appropriate apparatus required to make a response possible .
hearing a womans voice was the next best thing to having her there , and he tried to sound debonair .
what news from the accident site , over ?
dr. fredricks ' assistant , marsha , asked him .
just got word , barry said affably .
the ones who were on the trailing sled are toast .
the rest are on the way back .
marsha paused before answering .
there were some very unhappy officials where she sat , and they found nothing humorous in any of this .
what is the eta at camp ?
she asked in a professional sounding voice .
couple hours , i guess .
not sure .
the captain , she replied pointedly , is very concerned and i am coordinating between him and the nsf reps. is there anything you would like me to tell him ?
she asked sweetly .
negative , was the only reply .
good , marsha said .
i have information for dr. atkinson .
is he there ?
negative there also , barry said .
want me to copy ?
she sighed off the air .
okay .
the captain orders that there be limited contact with the guests .
he will be on the next flight in the morning .
a different russian expedition will detour to your location to pick up the survivors .
until then , keep the different groups apart whenever possible .
copy ?
thats affirm .
thanks , chalet .
okay , beardmore , marsha said .
check in when they arrive .
wilco , barry said positively .
out .
did i miss something ?
dr. atkinson asked .
he came through the door just as barry signed off .
not really .
the chalet wants to know whats going on .
said something about keeping groups separate , if possible .
keep groups separate ?
what does that mean ?
dr. atkinson asked .
beats me , barry said , looking blankly at the chief scientist .
i thought youd know .
i would think they had more on their plate than housing arrangements .
anyway , i suppose well just have to sort it out .
what else ?
captain 's coming out in the morning .
really ?
dr. atkinson asked .
oh well .
i suppose he has to show a presence as part of the job .
go where the action is , the weatherman agreed .
you got it .
all right then .
keep me posted .
thats what im here for .
that and the weather .
good work if you can find it , huh ?
the chief scientist asked , feeling somewhat fraternal in the awareness that all members of the crew shared the dangers equally .
the very best , doc .
the very best .
the hatch of the ornament opened and crystal , her dreadlocks frozen like candy canes , came breathlessly into the compartment .
she looked at the group leader , frodo , with eyes wide , catching her breath .
he continued to look at the letter he had just written , and which he intended to post with a flight that a kiwi was taking the next day .
he let her stand for a moment until he found it convenient to look up .
what are you all worked up about ?
he asked her .
he had grown into his role as leader , and as such , felt it important to remain somewhat aloof .
it was especially important with this one , since she had by then been sharing his bunk for several weeks .
he was determined not to allow his personal life to interfere with the mission .
this !
was all crystal said , holding out the copy of der spiegel that she had lifted from the kiwi mess .
on the cover was the picture of the americans ' drunken orgy with the south american liquor .
the story referenced how the green organization had broken the story from the ice , and how the tabloid was able to gain independent confirmation on the ground .
he was ecstatic .
we got them !
he shouted , throwing his arms around her .
she was as excited as he was about the story , and his happiness warmed her heart .
should i go get the others ?
she asked .
yes .
no .
wait , he said , still holding her in his embrace .
it can wait a few minutes .
lets digest the information a little bit before we decide what to do .
she looked up at him knowingly .
yeah , i think you might be right .
thats my job , you know , to be right , he said .
it was only a short step to the bunk that was built into the wall of the ornament .
they were nearly there when the hatch opened again , and crystal jumped out of his grasp with a squeak .
what ?
frodo demanded of thumper , who was the first one through .
frodo was not pleased with the interruption , though the orb was as much their shelter as his .
his expression changed when he noticed the stranger behind them .
the man was perhaps forty years old with deep crows feet around his eyes a bushy mustache marked his face .
the flight jacket carried insignias that showed him to be a charter pilot of the type of craft that did much of the short hop work that the big c 130s could not .
frodo knew instinctively that this man was not someone he could intimidate , and he naturally slipped into the persona he reserved for dealing with one he considered an equal .
the pilot did not consider the leader of the environmentalists an equal .
he was a pilot , and that was all that was necessary to say about that .
he was , however , sympathetic to the cause and found the other female member of their expedition , sierra , to be somewhat attractive .
this made him pliable .
the pilot had heard the environmentalist leader pontificate in the kiwi bar and thought he was an idiot , though that did not make the young lady any less desirable .
there had been many discussions around the ornament in which the members of the team bemoaned the fact that they were limited to an area of operations that could only include the ross ice shelf , and they were certain that their presence was required in many places that they could not reach .
when sierra , who , as well as crystal was in her mid twenties and was in fact quite pretty , began to perceive the interest of the pilot , she sensed an opportunity that required exploration .
while discussing many things over the irish whiskey , she hit the jackpot .
he was even kind of cute .
this is max , she announced to the others .
he has to fly a nearly empty flight to the top of the beardmore to drop a part for some group out there .
he can take us with him and make a stop at the camp .
just a matter of fuel , is all , max said with a smile and a wink aimed at sierra , his australian accent sounding enchanting to her .
frodo nearly lost his breath at the unprecedented opportunity .
look at this !
he said to the two of them , handing over the paper .
he was not quite as ignorant about some things as people perceived him to be .
he was aware that , in his line of work , people were fueled by indignation and he was actually very good at inspiring it .
telling people why they should be offended was not motivating .
presenting the right information in the right way and letting them come to the proper conclusion on their own worked much better .
in the tiny shelter on the ice , it was a foregone conclusion how they would react .
ill be damned !
the aussie said .
bloody bastards really mean to do it .
look right pleased with their selves , too .
wallowing in it almost , pigs in mud .
thats exactly what they do , everywhere , frodo agreed .
unless we stop them .
certainly give it a try , the pilot said .
he was aware that his personal indignation brought him closer to sierra , and he now felt free to give her a little squeeze , which she did not refuse .
thumper , the fourth member of the group , the source of whose nickname remained uncertain , sat sullenly in the corner .
he watched with disgust the flagrant flaunting of sierras charms toward the stranger .
he wouldnt have objected to using her sexuality as a tool toward obtaining an end it was her obvious enjoyment of her role that bothered him .
they were all just so many adventurers he thought , on a romantic journey .
not truly committed to the cause , like he was .
he had already made plans for his departure from this silly group , but now decided to put it off for a while .
things might just be starting to look up .
when are you planning on going ?
frodo asked .
tomorrow morning , early .
well be there .
the caravan of alpines and nansen sleds was making its way over the rolling waves of sustrugi toward the safety , warmth , and comfort of the camp .
the injured russian driver was made comfortable inside a sleeping bag from the survival kit and was secured onto one of the sleds .
the others either rode on the snowmobiles or sat on a sledge .
gregore sat behind daniels .
he had ascertained that daniels was the head of the group and he had contrived to arrange that he sit on the same sled .
although he did not have any means of communicating , he wanted it to be clear what his position was .
jake let the lieutenant do the driving on the way back .
susan sat behind richards , arms around his waist .
jake chose the last sled in line , and made himself a place to recline , pulling a tarp over him to block the wind .
sokolov sat opposite him , facing backwards .
thank you for your efforts , the russian said .
it is terrible to lose one 's companions in this way .
not much choice , really , jake said , yawning .
you have to try , if you can .
yes , one must try , sokolov said , trying not to inflect the irony that he felt .
he had not previously had the time to reflect upon how his own selfish actions had led to the death of his innocent associates .
his sensitive mind was appalled at the terrible responsibility that he bore for the tragedy .
it had never occurred to him that his plan could go so badly wrong .
a part of him wanted to confess that the whole thing was his doing , but that thought frightened him more than the act itself .
he had no choice but to continue .
daniels had communicated to the russians that one of their transport vehicles would be at the camp the next morning to collect them .
while this was not a situation that sokolov had anticipated , it was not a serious setback , either .
he would just have to act quickly .
it occurred to him that this part of his scheme had not been well thought out though of course there was no way it could have been .
he would have to improvise .
his problem was merely that he had taken it as given that once he was among the americans , all he would have to do is announce his intention to stay , and that would be that .
he knew now that this was a vastly simplistic perspective .
vostok , huh ?
jake asked .
yes , we come from vostok .
trevor holding up ?
sokolov managed a smile .
at times , when he forgets where he is .
i thought so .
the letters i posted for him kinda said it all .
ah , sokolov said .
you are the one he spoke with on the radio .
he was very grateful for your assistance .
yeah , jake commented .
good guy , but he probably should have stayed home .
sokolov didnt know how he could respond to that so he kept silent while he watched the passing scenery .
the mountains rose above the neve they travelled over .
closer by were nunataks , the tips of mountains that are covered in ice and protrude through the surface , like black pyramids rising above the plain .
how about you ?
jake asked .
the russian hesitated before answering .
clearly a small talk question , he could answer in kind , but that would not help his cause , and soon they would be to the americans ' camp .
you know of where we are from , yes ?
you have heard things , maybe , about what life is like in russia ?
oh yeah .
weve heard .
and what have you heard ?
sokolov asked .
if his government was correct , what the young mountaineer had heard was that it was a paradise , but he did not believe that to be the case .
he knew that information must be getting out .
that it pretty much sucks , jake said .
sokolov wasnt familiar with the common usage of the term , but there was no doubting what the context was in this form .
do you think one would like to live under such circumstances ?
not hardly .
and you would be correct in that opinion , sokolov confirmed .
he would have preferred to explain his case to someone of more authority , but by the time he would be able to do that , it could be too late .
this young man had risked his life in an attempt to rescue sokolov 's companions , and he had come to the conclusion that jake was someone he could trust to do his best to help in any circumstance .
he made the snap decision to place his destiny into jake 's capable hands .
chapter 16 the sky above beardmore camp look at that , the copilot said .
look at what ?
the captain asked .
the c 130 hercules had descended from its cruising altitude , having passed over beardmore south camp and continuing due south over the plateau .
the captain wanted to get a look at where the accident had happened .
they went south for fifty miles , then took a wide turn and passed over the crevasse field before starting the final descent into the camp .
he allowed dr. fredrick onto the flight deck while he controlled the aircraft .
he looked where his copilot pointed .
ah .
what ?
dr. fredrick asked over the intercom .
there .
russian transport convoy .
the captain descended lower towards the vehicles to get a better look .
looks like a miserable way to travel , the copilot said .
no shit , the captain said .
give me my herc any day .
economical , at least , dr. fredrick said .
if not somewhat laborious .
the captain shared a look with his copilot , unnoticed by dr. fredrick .
she shook her head on cue , smirking .
scientists !
how far are they from the camp and how long do you think it will take them to get there ?
dr. fredrick asked .
ten , fifteen miles .
maybe an hour , two max .
okay , dr. fredrick said , nodding .
im gon na bring her around for our approach .
to the copilot , he asked , current conditions on the ground ?
lets get an update , she said , then keyed the mic .
beardmore , you copy ?
thats affirm , go ahead , barry said .
he knew who was coming and was ready .
got your latest hourly ?
roger , barry said .
observation as follows wind fourteen , from the northeast .
blowing snow .
sky alto cumulus at fifteen thousand feet .
temp one four , thats fourteen .
how copy ?
copy all , beardmore .
thanks .
not a problem , barry told them .
he was always accommodating when the captain was around .
beardmore standing by .
what was the wind on the last report ?
the captain asked her .
zilch .
he grunted .
now we got fourteen out of the northeast and blowing snow .
and alto cumulous at fifteen thousand , she added .
he thought for a moment while the aircraft continued to lower before saying over the intercom , lets try and move things along down there , people .
he had no intention of becoming a permanent resident in that god forsaken place .
airplanes were for flying and he wasnt there because of the scenery .
even mcmurdo , rat hole that it was , was far superior to this place and that was where his squadron was berthed .
if there was a storm brewing , then he wanted to get out , and quick .
lets make this short and sweet .
sokolov lay in the cot in the jamesway .
the breeze that had begun was keeping it from being unbearably hot inside , which it would have been were there no wind .
the sun on the canvas burned through , however , and he could feel the radiant heat on whichever side was facing the wall .
it was dark , as it always was , even when the lights were on .
the dark green of the material walls absorbed any light that made any attempt to illuminate it , from within or without .
the heat on the canvas enhanced the musty smell and it reminded him of being a boy and camping on holidays in the steppes .
that made him reflect upon what he used to think of , but was no longer , home for him .
in the hollowness of his heart , there remained the memory of a family , all long gone and who were to be missed , though being back in the place where they once were would not bring them back to him .
still , there were moments of happiness he remembered and one could not entirely separate the place from the time .
he could hear the breathing of his two countrymen nearby .
the driver was in pain and moaned in his sleep .
gregore snored under the influence of the narcotic that he had finally accepted .
shock , and the adrenaline of the accident , as well as the duty that was necessary to be carried out , had kept his suffering at bay , but when he finally gave in to it he surrendered completely and sank into the drug induced stupor .
the scientist had to admit that he was impressed with the political officer 's performance so far .
he had long thought of him as being weak and venal , the embodiment of all that he despised about his soon to be former country .
but the man had acted somewhat courageously , and with a commitment to duty that he hadnt thought possible .
when they arrived at the american base , gregore , despite his injuries and being indebted for their rescue , told the americans straight out that he knew of the plans to exploit the natural resources , shocking russians and americans alike .
he registered his complaint professionally , then gave each of the scientists a bear hug and thanked them for saving what was left of his crew .
someone produced a bottle of vodka , frozen to the proper temperature , and gregore saluted them in classic form before the drugs and fatigue overtook him .
in the relative quiet , he tried to calm his heart and to keep the fear from taking hold .
yet again he chastised himself for being simplistic in his expectations .
he thought that his message had been delivered in as adroit a fashion as might be expected and that someone , perhaps the mountaineer from the crevasse , would have come for him , and that would be that .
now , as he listened to the pounding in his chest , he cataloged the innumerable reasons that they might give themselves for denying his request .
and the fear continued to grow .
why had no one come ?
would they , in the end , signal their willingness to free him from the destiny that otherwise would be his , or would they refuse him for reasons that he might never know ?
there was nothing he could do but wait and count the passing moments .
it would not be long , he thought , but that was not how it seemed at the time .
the twin otter aircraft was flying up the beardmore glacier at little more than a thousand feet off the deck .
it was high enough for the aussie pilot to feel secure and low enough for his passengers to feel like they were flying through the seracs , standing blue towers of ice , themselves .
in the right hand seat was sierra , who had made the journey possible , to the chagrin of frodo .
he was clearly irked to be relegated to the seats behind , but he was on the plane , and that would have to do .
the pilot smiled at sierra as she looked in wonder at the endless morass of fractured ice below .
okay , he said , getting the groups ' attention .
heres the drill .
when we get on the ground , i want to make sure that we dont get sucked into a tea party kind of thing with them where they can give us a bunch of bullshit .
all we need is to document our being there in pictures that prove what they are up to .
with that we can orchestrate worldwide condemnation of the whole thing .
ill distract the ones who come out to see whats going on you guys hold up the signs and get the pictures of where the drilling is being done .
should we try and wreck it , the drill ?
thumper asked .
both of the women were shacked up , as was frodo , while he had to share their camp in close proximity with them , alone .
a little sabotage would go a long way toward mending his feelings .
frodo contemplated this .
i dont think so .
not that i wouldnt like to , of course , he added quickly .
in other operations , we can fight a guerrilla war and defeat them through attrition .
here , we have to work with them .
when the world finally pressures them to stop the damage , they will need us to steer them in the right direction .
if we go too far , then we will only make that harder .
thumper didnt answer , but looked out the window expressionlessly .
he had found himself a part of this group after working with the organization in other places where the niceties were a little less observed .
even then , he thought that the whole outfit was a bunch of dilettantes who enjoyed their status as pseudo revolutionaries .
holding up signs .
please .
he had come to the studied conclusion that trying to save the environment by taking pictures and holding up signs was about as effective to the cause of saving the planet as praying was by those who thought that they had ended the war in vietnam by having prayer meetings .
no , he thought , prayers and wishes were things that were answered by those who took action .
hoping for things to occur was a waste of mental energy .
he had been giving it a great deal of serious thought and was decided .
when this mission was over , he was going to go somewhere , quietly , and begin to contact those whom he knew felt the same way .
he , as well as they , knew that those who worked to destroy nature for profit could only be made to stop by removing their motivation , and that meant making war on the exploiters ' ability to be profitable .
holding up signs .
what an embarrassment .
but soonand very , very , quietly .
barry , as always when there was the possibility of an incoming aircraft , was on hourlys while the rest of the crew slept .
or attempted to sleep .
or pretended to sleep .
he went outside to smoke the civilians wouldnt allow it inside , and kept the coffee pot primed .
he didnt really mind .
the console was his station .
his .
he knew that he wasnt commanding the bridge of a carrier , but this job , be it ever so humble , was his .
the engine noise from high above was fading into the distance , but that only meant that soon it would turn and come back in to land .
the captain would come .
the russians would leave .
then life would go on as it always did .
everyone would go back to bed and after they were rested , they would all start to pontificate again to whomever would listen .
barry was proud of the fact that he never paid much attention to anything any of these geeks said .
it only encouraged them , and he wanted no part of it .
the door opened , jerking him out of his reverie , and he realized that he had probably been half asleep himself .
he turned to see who it was and groaned inwardly .
the cook came in , getting ready to start breakfast .
he braced himself , amazed at how in one instant he could be enjoying the satisfaction of one who had command over his own domain , and in the next , feel like the very life was being sucked out of his ears , one drop at a time .
whats the matter with you ?
the cook demanded to know , seeing him wince .
the aliens came and ate my brain when i wasnt looking , barry told him .
not possible , he was told .
why not ?
barry wanted to know , intrigued in spite of himself .
you never had one .
and so another day began .
the sound of the aircraft passing overhead woke the sleeping members of the expedition and , understanding what it meant , each got up quickly and made their way towards the hut .
lt. richards was in susans tent , but in his own sleeping bag .
they started off the night together , but every move each of them made only made susans multiple injuries that much worse .
her barely healed shoulder was sore from the long climb , her tailbone was badly bruised , if not broken her jaw was throbbing from the ice screw exploding out of the wall of the crevasse it was a shorter list to catalog what wasnt hurt .
the lieutenant got dressed first to try and avoid jostling her , and he went into the hut , where the full complement , minus susan and jake , were already assembled .
the russians were still in their bunks .
the doctors atkinson , daniels , and adams were huddled over barry at the radio as he communicated with the inbound aircraft .
he joined them there .
whats the news ?
he asked .
skippers on his way in , barry said , using the naval descriptor for his commander , since the lieutenant was one of them .
when ?
now .
jake came in while they were talking .
he asked the same questions , and got the same answers .
i suppose that will be it , then , dr. atkinson said to the others .
the russians will be here shortly , and then be on their way .
jake was filling his mug from the pot when he heard this .
minus one , he said to them .
minus one what ?
dr. atkinson asked .
russian , jake said , stirring the powdered milk into the coffee and biting into a biscuit .
one russian ?
dr. atkinson said , not following what jake was saying .
how , one russian ?
more like which , than how .
of course , how might be a pretty good question too , jake allowed .
can someone please explain to me what he is saying , dr. atkinson pleaded in his most exasperated lecture hall voice , and holding up his palms .
jake , what are you saying ?
lt. richards inquired when none of the other ph.d.s could translate .
the guy i sat with on the sled .
says he wants to stay .
stay ?
alistair adams echoed .
nobody stays , not if they can help it , anyway .
what you mean is that he doesnt wish to go with his people .
jake replied by pointing his index finger straight up , then flipping it down in alistairs direction .
good god , dr. atkinson said , finally catching on .
susan had joined them by this point , gingerly settling into a seat and wincing from the pain .
which god ?
she asked not having heard what led the lead scientist to make that exclamation .
you really need to let me take a look at that , jake said , his solicitousness betrayed by the bemused smirk .
over my dead body , she told him once again .
and this is something you were going to tell us when ?
dr. atkinson shouted , ignoring their exchange .
jake shrugged .
i forgot , he explained .
did you say anything back to him ?
lt. richards asked , understanding immediately the potential consequences .
sure .
mi casa , su casa .
seems like a pretty good guy .
why not ?
why not what ?
susan asked , realizing there was more going on than she knew .
your guide has just granted asylum to a russian defector !
dr. atkinson complained to her , as if she were responsible for him .
just wait a minute , steven , she said .
then turning around , she asked , jake ?
he shrugged again , and she responded by closing her eyes and groaning deeply .
good god , she said , repeating dr. atkinsons sentiment .
yes , dr. atkinson agreed , nodding his head towards her .
precisely .
were going to have to handle this carefully , the lieutenant said , rubbing the stubble on his chin .
they arent going to like our letting one of their people stay .
susan looked up sharply .
you cant be seriously thinking of allowing this to happen , can you ?
the lieutenant gazed at her with a questioning look for an instant before saying , i dont see how we can in good conscience refuse him .
can you ?
i sure as damn well can , she said .
this is the one place on the planet where cooperation trumps politics .
this person can destroy 25 years of accumulated good will in an instant .
we cant risk that .
dr. daniels agreed .
it would be a disaster .
the harmony we have developed here with the russians is a beacon of hope in an ever darkening world .
this could end it all , right here .
they must have known , susan said , thinking it through .
thats why they were coming .
they found out about this project and were coming to investigate .
i knew that something like this would have to come of such an idiotic idea .
susan , lt. richards began to say , the pain in his expression clear , be that as it may , this is really about just one person .
one person , who is reaching out for help .
no , this is much , much bigger than that .
bigger than any one person .
i see , lt. richards said , quietly though stiffly , looking at the other scientists , but speaking to susan .
all the talk about science benefiting mankind and saving the planet becomes just so much chatter when it gets in the way of your agendas .
agendas !
susan shouted , jumping to her feet in spite of her bruised tail .
youre going to lecture us about agendas ?
its the agenda that sent you here that is going to end up destroying the whole program !
you know how i feel about that , lt richards said , and how i feel about all of you .
this time he spoke to all the others , but looked only at her .
she started to speak , but turned her back and held one elbow in the palm of her hand , knuckles of the other on her chin .
the sound of aircraft engines interrupted the rapidly escalating debate to everyones relief , and the scientists except susan went out to look .
when she didnt turn back around , a dejected looking lieutenant followed them .
jake was stretched out in a chair with his feet on a table , staring at susan .
what ?
she asked by way of interrogation .
when was the last time i told you i loved you ?
he asked .
aagghh !
she raged at the ceiling , her fists clenched and shaking all over .
then , she , too , exited the hut .
jake continued to sit , relaxed in the chair .
no ?
he said .
then , looking at stan the cook , he said , what about you ?
cant remember , stan said , his folded elbows resting on the galley table .
he pointed his thumb at barry .
he did , though .
right before you came in .
good , jake said , nodding approvingly .
thats very good .
chapter 17 beardmore glacier camp keep her turning , the captain said to his copilot .
ay , ay , she said in reply .
the c 130 was off of the ski way , the engines turning as described , and ready to throttle up at a moments notice and depart .
dr. atkinson and dr. daniels met the plane , standing to windward to avoid being engulfed in the driving snow that was kicked up by the propellers .
the captain didnt bother to greet them over the roar of the turbo powered engines .
he motioned them to follow and headed straight for the hut .
dr. fredrick merely looked toward atkinson , and followed the captain .
lieutenant richards waited for them at the door .
all right , the captain said when the five of them were seated at a table .
the crew circled around in order to better hear what was said .
where are we ?
the three are asleep , or at least in their bunks , in the jamesway .
the far end has been reserved for them , as you had requested , atkinson reported .
the captain looked up .
what do you mean , as i requested ?
why , the message that was passed to barry , of course .
dr. atkinson turned toward the ag who was seated at the radio behind him .
the captain placed his elbow on the table and squeezed the bridge of his nose between his thumb and forefinger with his eyes closed .
he let out his breath slowly and tried to stop the spinning in his head .
keep the groups separate .
is that the message you are referring to ?
of course , atkinson said , perplexed .
and thats what youve done ?
given them the end of the j way ?
it seemed like the best spot , atkinson said .
and contact with them otherwise ?
were the groups kept separate then ?
i would say not .
they needed medical attention .
food .
a short meeting .
a meeting .
good .
a meeting .
and what did you discuss at this meeting ?
i was confronted in a very forthright and polite manner about what apparently has become common knowledge around the world , and i answered in kind , the chief scientist said with as much dignity as he could garnish .
they knew ?
dr. fredrick asked gently , knowing the answer , already but wanting to hear how it was expressed .
yes , they knew .
not too happy about it , as i am sure you might have expected , but their appreciation for our coming to their rescue tempered what might have been said otherwise .
well thank goodness for that , the captain said , his sarcasm undisguised .
anything else ?
dr. atkinson looked at jake , who returned the look , but with no clear expression .
there is one other thing .
they are coming , the russian driver told sokolov and gregore .
this sound i would know anywhere .
the sustrugi was transmitting the sound of the tracks through its structure , as was the wind carrying the rumbling of the engines .
it was a distinctive sound , different that the lighter sprites that the americans used .
good , then , gregore said , sitting up stiffly .
we should get ready .
sokolov didnt answer , but got to his feet and methodically began to put on his outer clothes .
the others could not see the tenseness in how he moved how the worry that had been growing in his mind made him lightheaded .
he would not have been able to speak for the dryness in his throat .
the night had passed with no one coming into the jamesway except those who went to their own bunks .
while he looked forward to the next few moments with a dread bordering on paralysis , he also knew that his destiny lay in their outcome and so was anxious to see what they would bring .
he helped the driver to sit up and slipped the thermal jumpsuit legs over his feet .
thank you , my friend , the driver said to him .
a couple of weeks ago , the mechanic would not have addressed him so , but the circumstances , coupled with the proximity with which they had found themselves , gave him license to speak with familiarity .
it is nothing , the scientist managed to reply .
it gives me pleasure to see you well , or at least better .
when they were all fully clothed and the few belongings they had salvaged were collected , they went out the door .
the tractors had come to a stop between the hut and where the c 130 sat with propellers turning .
their eyes were slow to adjust to the light two of them had been on sedatives and in the dark tent for several hours .
two track vehicles similar in design to the one that had taken them into the crevasse were coming to a stop near the hut .
sokolov looked toward the building from which people were pouring out many more people than there were before .
he saw the military uniforms of the flight crew and thought of going over to them and demanding an answer to his request when the sight of another aircraft caught his attention .
it was making a steep and fast descent .
it landed on the strip and taxied toward them as if in a hurry , but did not come to the main part of the camp .
it stopped by a dome shaped structure near what looked like the drilling equipment the french scientists used at vostok to extract the ice cores .
he wondered , hopefully , for a moment if its arrival had something to do with him .
surely his plea for asylum would not go ignored .
that just could not be possible .
having had a moment to calm herself , a skill which she had had ample opportunity to practice of late , susan began to ponder .
if the russians were coming to catch them in the act of exploring for oil , that meant that her message had been delivered to the green organization , and that word had gotten out as she had intended .
she began to see that this was exactly the event she needed to stop this project and use the righteous indignation that must surely be building throughout the world to push through her plan to close antarctica to mineral exploitation for all time .
the question was how ?
her timetable had been predicated on the idea that she would gather her data , present her findings in an orderly fashion through scientific publications , and enlisting those who saw the possibilities into a coalition .
that was clearly no longer an option .
things would move quickly now , and if she didnt find a way to get in front of it , it would all happen without her .
no one would believe that all this was taking place without there being a certain knowledge that the caches existed , making the need for hard data no longer necessary .
but what to do ?
a moment ago , she perceived the arrival of this russian defector as a threat to everything she held dear .
now , she wanted to shout his presence from the rooftops .
how many had died in his coming there , four ?
and for what ?
enough said .
all she needed to do was get him out of there .
but how ?
if the nsf , and the navy even allowed it , it would have to seem like another accident , anything to keep it from becoming public knowledge .
that could not happen .
she walked while she thought , and found herself between the hut and the drill site when she saw another airplane landing and heard the russian transports coming into camp .
the c 130 was making so much noise that she didnt hear the approach of the small plane until it was on the ice .
she wondered who it could be .
the otter came to a stop and the engines powered down .
max , the aussie pilot , quickly unbuckled himself and reached across the aisle to open the hatch and lower the steps .
the group then disembarked as rapidly as they could and began to spread out , each to accomplish their part of the mission .
the pilot climbed back in after the others departed , keeping the motor turning , just like the c 130 on the other side of the ski way .
a rapid exit seemed as if it might be in order .
frodo and crystal saw susan running toward them , and went to intercept her while the other two went to stage their demonstration by the ice drill .
what are you doing here ?
susan shouted to frodo over the engine noise .
we got your message .
we hitched a ride up here to get more proof .
what else is going on that we need to know about ?
frodo asked , direct to the point .
he knew that he only had moments to carry out the raid before there would be trouble .
a lot more that i dont have time for , susan answered in the same way , for the same reason .
theres something i need you to do .
its important .
tell me .
give a guy a ride out of here , and get him off the continent asap .
can you do it ?
whats his deal ?
frodo asked .
does it have to do with the oil research ?
sort of .
he will bring a lot of publicity along with him .
youll know what to do once you talk to him .
okay , get him , frodo told her .
publicity was the currency in which his trade was carried out , and when someone dropped a pile of it in his lap , he wasnt about to refuse it .
i may need some help , she said , looking around .
here , come with me .
susan led them around the back of the hut to where she could look around the corner .
the russians were just leaving the jamesway .
without being seen by anyone else , she waved her arms at sokolov and motioned for him to come .
sokolov nodded to her , then tapped gregore on the shoulder .
before we leave , he said , gesturing toward the outhouse , i will join you by the vehicles .
gregore nodded back to him .
the other russians went to meet their countrymen sokolov turned and walked to susan and frodo .
go with him , susan said without preamble when the russian arrived .
he has a plane .
are you with the american government ?
sokolov asked him .
excuse me ?
frodo replied , looking at susan , confused .
not exactly , she answered for him .
but if you dont go with him now , youll have to travel overland .
she maneuvered her way around the real story to avoid having to explain to frodo , who might get cold feet , and euphemistically described the consequences of not going now .
sokolov looked around him to see who was there , looking like he might be wavering himself .
hurry !
susan exhorted them , and they were off .
susan entered the hut in time to hear the captain finish his tirade , the last of it being directed at lieutenant richards .
so , where were you during all this ?
he asked , sarcasm not affected .
making cocoa ?
tucking them into their bunks ?
lieutenant richards stood with his chin up , looking at the wall , clearly not intending to dignify the inquiry with a response .
jake sat next to the captain and seemed to echo the question with his eyes and smile .
it wasnt his fault the guy asked the question , susan said , surprising all of them , though for different reasons .
none of us even knew until a little while ago .
huh , the captain said , looking at the two of them in turn as if trying to discern their thoughts , or more pointedly , the nature of their alliance .
this is interesting .
it would appear as if the two of you have developed a healthy working relationship after all .
jake nodded affirmatively with the captain , as if he too were discovering this for the first time .
susan 's cheeks were rosy enough from having been out in the cold to avoid the detection of a blush .
she would have flushed from anger anyway as she blustered back at him .
considering what i think of the insane reason for his being here , and what has come of it already , i guess you can say that .
thats more like it , the captain said , finding the comfort of fulfilled expectations .
so , whats your call ?
do we snatch the russian , or send him home ?
personally , i dont think you have a choice , she said disingenuously , since she knew at that moment that sokolov was climbing into the otter .
the only way to salvage what is left of international cooperation in antarctica is to come out with a complete mea culpa about your intentions .
taking one of their people isnt going to make the russians any happier about what has happened .
huh !
the captain repeated .
whod a thunk it .
i actually agree with you on something .
not about apologizing for what were doing , but this is not the time and place for that type of confrontation .
you cant send him back , lt. richards said .
even if it is the expedient thing to do , it goes against everything we stand for .
i dont know what you stand for , but i stand for completing my mission as an officer in the united states navy .
and this does nothing but complicate the mission .
at that moment , susans mission was to waste as much time as possible , and she did so in the best way she knew how debate .
of course , the lieutenant makes a good point , she said , smiling at him and feeling sorry for his predicament .
she had come to disassociate him from his job , loving him in spite of it , choosing to believe that he had been trapped into his part as much as she had hers .
in the question of ideals verses interests , the more noble position would be to err on the side of ideals .
yes , well , as noble as that sentiment may be , other people get to decide what my ideals are at this time , the captain told her .
my job is to look after the nations interests .
susan had spoken counter intuitively to her own feelings , since she tended to be one who perceived interests and ideals as the same thing .
for example , it was in the interest of humanity to not destroy the environment .
her ideal was to defend it at any cost necessary .
the type of conflict that lt. richards was describing was to her a nave , almost childlike view of good and evil .
it was endearing in its way , but not something to be truly taken seriously .
i can see that , but she started to say .
the captain cut her off .
you can see what you want to .
right now im going to bid farewell to our new friends .
the captain led the way through the door .
he pulled the fur lined hood of his green nylon parka over his head and adjusted his sunglasses .
he saw the russian transports with people standing around them .
then he saw the otter , which was unexpected , and then he saw the green organization by the drilling rig .
oh , for the love of frickin pete , he said .
not now !
he strode off in their direction with the step of a man who seemed happy to have found a legitimate target on which to release his accumulated anger .
thumper held the sign while sierra took the pictures .
they changed positions , sierra posing , smiling broadly , and thumper taking the shots , making sure that all the artistic bases were covered .
okay , she said , lets get out of here .
he ignored her and opened the large backpack that he had brought along .
he took out a razor knife and a sledgehammer .
what are you doing ?
she asked him , surprised by the unscripted action that he had begun .
watch , he replied .
with the knife he slashed through the canvas wall of the tent that covered the equipment that operated the drill .
tearing a larger swath through the material after making the original cut , he went inside and surveyed the layout .
there was a large spool of braided wire that held the bit , which was operated by a sophisticated looking winch , which was controlled from a panel of switches and dials .
this was what he was looking for .
he took the hammer and began to smash everything that he could .
it would not take much to make the machine inoperable .
sierra watched in fascination and horror .
she could see what he was doing , but the impact of it was outside her immediate understanding .
it seemed like some sort of hallucination , like hearing a dog sing the ode to joy . ''
it was only a matter of seconds before his work was done .
now we can go , he told her , surveying the damage calmly , professionally .
jesus she said , spellbound by the sight .
had nothing to do with it , he finished for her while he put the pack back on .
hes completely off the hook , as are you .
im sure thats what you will all want to hear .
we wouldnt want anyone to have to take responsibility for doing anything now , would we ?
not when everyone can just keep on talking forever .
dont worry about it .
she looked at him like he was a stranger .
all the time back at the ornament , he had kept quiet , mostly watching her , and the others .
it had been as if he made up a part of the audience for whom she performed the drama of her life .
she followed him out of the tent , silently , knowing that things were seriously changed , and that there would be more changes to come .
hey , you , stop !
the captain yelled , loud enough to be heard over the engine noise .
he started to run toward the drill site , where the retreating saboteurs were leaving .
they heard him , and , in turn , started running back to the otter .
they made it there first and sierra climbed on board .
thumper swung the sledgehammer at the captain , not earnestly trying to make contact , but with enough sincerity to convey the impression that he would not brook interference .
the captain backed off a pace and looked through the hatch .
he saw frodo inside , and yelled to him .
now youve done it .
this isnt a game anymore , you goofy bastard .
you dont get to pull something like this and then have us just roll over .
youre done !
he yelled .
frodo hadnt seen what had taken place at the drill site , and thought that the captain must be talking about sokolov , who was sitting next to him , and who must know something very damaging to the americans to get that kind of reaction .
youre the ones who are finished !
he yelled back .
everyone is going to know what weve done here to stop you .
you wont be drilling here anymore !
oh yeah ?
well , when i get my hands on you , youre going find yourself headed stateside in chains .
an attack on american property here is an attack on the nation .
youve just declared war , you idiot !
max slammed the hatch shut before any more pleasantries could be exchanged , and immediately gunned the engines , sending them hurling toward the ski way .
what did he mean by that ?
frodo asked sokolov .
attack ?
i do not know , sokolov answered , bewildered .
so , what do you know about the drilling ?
i do not know anything .
what drilling do you speak of ?
the oil drilling , of course .
why else would we be here ?
frodo asked , exasperated .
for me , i thought , sokolov said , more confused than before .
frodo looked at the russian as if he were an imbecile , before starting to sense a pit forming in his stomach .
wait a minute , he said , affecting calmness .
who , exactly are you , and what exactly are you doing here ?
i am vladimir sokolov .
i am a russian physicist from vostok who has requested asylum in america .
you did not know this ?
sokolov asked in disbelief .
frodo stared at him with a blank expression , until he grasped what had happened .
im going to kill her , he said softly .
i am going to find her again someday , and then im going to kill her .
that still doesnt explain what he meant by saying we attacked them , crystal said .
ask him , sierra said , pointing with her chin toward thumper , who said nothing .
looks like hes not talking , frodo said .
maybe you can fill us in .
there was a brittle quality that came to his voice when he felt like he was losing control of a situation , which bore a semblance to bitter sarcasm .
it was nearly breaking at this point .
you ask him youre supposed to be in charge here , she told him as she looked away , mistaking his tone for reprobation of herself .
im sorry , frodo said , managing a forced smile which contrasted with his wild eyes , which still carried a hunted look .
we just got done with the pictures , sierra said , relenting , and he pulls out this hammer and smashes the place up .
cut it up , too .
frodo snorted through his nose while arching his eyebrows over closed eyes then he muttered something to himself .
didnt we discuss this before we landed ?
he asked , trying to act the part of leader again .
oh , yeah , we discussed it all right , the saboteur said , finally deciding to speak .
you can keep on discussing all you want , too .
im done discussing .
frodo started to speak , but stopped .
no one else spoke either , until sokolov looked at each of them , still amazed as if transported into another reality .
may i ask you the same question that you have just posed to me ?
who are you , and if you did not come for me , what was the meaning of your being there ?
were people who discuss things , thumper said .
we fly around and have discussions .
its very effective .
everybody has a wonderful time , too .
would you shut up ?
frodo yelled at him .
of course , thumper continued , there are those times when no one wants to discuss anything .
they can be very interesting as well .
sokolov murmured a curse in russian , which no one on board understood , but the gist of it wasnt hard to recon .
we are environmental activists , frodo said , proudly .
we are here to expose the americans ' attempt to exploit the continent for mineral extraction .
oil , sierra explained .
i am aware of what are minerals , sokolov replied to her , the fear from his escape having dissipated and his consternation turning into anger .
what i am not aware of is how i came to be with you , and what you intend to do with me now .
do ?
frodo said , his attention now fully engaged after nearly lapsing into distraction .
im not doing anything with you .
first , that witch , susan , cons me into thinking you have something to do with the oil drilling , and now this idiot he pointed at thumper , who smiled contentedly has the whole navy coming down on me .
i assume that you are not going to drop me off on the next street corner , sokolov said , giving in to a sarcasm that flowed from the broken dam of his reserve .
where are you going ?
mcmurdo , frodo said sheepishly .
unless theres somewhere else we can go ?
he addressed the question to max , who seethed behind the controls .
he shook his head in the negative .
this wasnt what he had bargained for either .
the american base of operations .
excellent , sokolov said .
maybe you can just drop me off , then .
theyll want to send you back , frodo said , starting to see it .
thats why susan wanted you to come with us .
they have enough problems with us catching on to what theyre doing without the russians coming down on them .
theyll send you back and act like it never happened .
thats what she meant by publicity .
we have to get you out so you can tell the whole story .
i dont want to tell stories .
i dont know of what story you want me to tell .
i want to go to america and continue with research at university .
sure , sure , frodo said , now on more familiar footing .
and they are going to want you , badly .
especially after youve helped to save antarctica from ruin , scientific cooperation from extinction , maybe even stopped a war .
youre the only one who can do it .
it was providence that brought us together .
frodo didnt much believe in providential occurrences , but he knew how strongly others did .
and weird shit did happen , after all .
you believe they would send me back ?
sokolov asked , visibly shaken by this suggestion .
while his experience in the soviet union had taught him to be wary of all , his isolation also left him woefully nave about the motivations of foreigners , and unequipped to navigate his way through the strange maze into which he had been dropped .
i do .
but we have friends , millions of them , who support the environment and a peaceful world .
well get you out , and into friendly hands .
frodo laid it on pretty thick , but he saw his words take effect .
even that arrogant pilot who would have killed him with a glance a moment ago was softening around the eyes .
he pressed his advantage .
we came here today to fight the good fight , and while things didnt go completely according to plan he shot a bitter look at the rogue saboteur , i believe that fortune has offered us an opportunity to do some real good .
i think i have an idea of how we can proceed .
he had no idea how he was going to get out of this , but he saw how the others seemed to regain their trust in his leadership and commitment to the cause .
he knew he would come up with something .
he always did .
chapter 18 beardmore glacier camp it didnt take the captain long to come to the conclusion that the russian did not find his way onto the aussie aircraft by accident , nor did it require a massive leap of inspiration to figure out how .
hed take care of her in a minute .
meanwhile , he had some other russians to deal with , and he knew it wasnt going to be pretty .
how was he to explain that a group of tree hugging fruitcakes had kidnapped a visiting scientist right out from under his nose ?
the short answer was that it didnt really matter .
they wouldnt believe a word of it anyway .
now he had to manage the consequences of having taken the refugee himself , without actually getting anything out of it .
maybe none of them could speak english .
gregore was gesturing with his good arm in the general direction of the retreating otter as the captain approached , and shouting in angry russian .
he had seen what had happened and assumed that the captain was responsible .
okay , nellie , the captain said , too pissed himself to care about anything the russian had to say , even if he could have understood it .
get your knickers out of their twist and put a cork in it .
who is this nellie , and what is knickers ?
asked a russian who came in on the vehicle to pick the others up .
you speak english ?
the captain asked him .
does it sound like i speak english ?
where have you taken our man ?
you have admitted that you are exploiting the soviet unions peaceful cooperation in an attempt to colonize the antarctic with imperial intentions .
do you think that taking our people will help you ?
we demand that you bring him back immediately .
gregore had been shouting at the caption through the entire exchange , but now paused to listen to his english speaking comrade , who translated what was said for him .
when the translation was finished , he turned back towards the captain and resumed shouting and shaking his fist at him .
can you do something about this ?
the captain asked the translator , holding his arms out helplessly , with palms facing gregore .
so we can talk ?
there was another exchange in russian , but this time when it ended gregore lifted his head proudly , though silently , and glared at the captain .
thank you , he said appreciatively .
we didnt take your guy .
you deny yes , yes , i deny .
can you listen for a minute ?
a group of enviro maniacs must have gotten hold of the same misinformation that you guys did , and showed up here the same time as you .
and i just happen to be lucky enough to have one of them who works for me he exaggerated who convinced them that taking your man would somehow help them .
they are terrorists you can see what they did to our equipment , the captain said , pointing to the drill site .
the russians had seen the attack on the drill , and were now discussing the situation in a more contemplative tone .
what are you going to do to catch these terrorists ?
the translator asked .
well , we havent gotten that far yet .
he turned back toward the hut and saw dr. fredricks walking his way .
but i think that in the same spirit of friendly cooperation that we have always shared in the antarctic , we would invite whomever you would like to send to join us in mcmurdo while we pursue our options .
there was another discussion and gregore listened to the translator explain .
he nodded once , curtly , and it was decided .
he and the translator would come to mcmurdo .
the others would proceed to vostok .
good , the captain said , relieved to have gotten off so easily , and with the added bonus of there being no talk of defections .
he was more than happy to pin the whole mess on the greenies , with susan engen as their accomplice .
maybe he could solve a number of inconvenient problems all at the same time .
and everyone said this post would be boring .
thank you , lieutenant richards said to susan when they were alone .
dont mention it , she said , slipping her arm through his .
i like sticking up for you .
will you be in trouble ?
me ?
no .
just stated an opinion , thats all .
im not really in the captain 's command anyway , since im only on loan for this project .
i really do think we have to help this guy , even if it is right here , and right now .
if you only stand for something when its convenient , then youre not really standing for anything at all .
you can see that , cant you ?
he asked her , looking into her eyes , hoping to see that she understood that the human element always superseded any other cause .
allowing helpless individuals to be sacrificed for what was supposed to be a higher purpose , by definition , disqualified that cause as being unworthy .
only a cause that stood for the individual was worth making the sacrifice for , he thought .
yeah , she said , slipping her arm back out from his and looking at the ground .
theres something we need to talk about about that very thing .
i dont know if youre going to be happy with me , or mad .
what do you mean ?
he asked as the door flung open and the captain came in , followed by the russians and dr. fredricks .
what she means is , the captain said , not really knowing what was being said , but taking the opportunity to jump in anyway , that she has not only been complicit in the kidnapping of a foreign national , but she has also aided and abetted a terrorist group in carrying out an attack on american property .
what ?
the lieutenant asked incredulously .
what ?
susan shouted , a full octave higher .
you both heard me right the first time .
just ask these guys , if you dont believe me .
the captain pointed towards the glaciologists who followed him in , who then settled into their seats , an abject melancholy hovering over them like a cloud , their season having been ruined .
i dont understand , the lieutenant said .
what is it thats happened ?
go take a look , the captain said , seemingly not willing to spell it out .
her friends left their calling card at the drill site .
told me they did it to stop your project here .
now where do you think they heard about that ?
the lieutenant didnt answer , since it was clear what the captain meant .
he wanted to come to susans defense like she had to his , but he didnt know if she had something to do with what was being described or not .
after a moment 's hesitation , however , he realized it didnt matter and chose to speak anyway .
these are serious accusations to make against anyone , especially a principle investigator in the nsf .
do you have any proof of what you say ?
do i need any ?
the captain asked , looking straight at susan who had remained uncharacteristically silent until then .
i dont have any idea what youre talking about , she said in a voice that proclaimed that this was her story and she was sticking to it .
but i am going to go see what happened at the drill site .
she walked out without any further conversation , the lieutenant following her after staring down the captain for an instant .
what was it you were starting to say before ?
he asked while they walked , his voice calm .
she smiled at him , in recognition of the fact that he was staying calm for her sake .
i was going to tell you that when i saw that the green organization had arrived , i put sokolov with them and convinced them to take him with them .
the lt. stopped short in his tracks .
you did what ?
he rasped .
it was a spur of the moment thing , and i admit that i wasnt looking at it in exactly the same way as you were , but the same result will happen .
he will get free .
are you mad at me ?
no , he said .
not yet , anyway .
i mean , i dont think so .
i still dont really know what alls happened .
well , that makes two of us .
lets go find out .
they walked briskly into the strengthening wind , to the tattered tent that once shielded the drilling apparatus .
the drifting snow was already reclaiming the destroyed machinery , making the wreck of it appear so much more complete .
oh , my god , susan said , her voice hushed , speaking only loud enough to be heard over the wind .
i cant believe this .
it isnt possible .
im afraid it is , he answered in the same tone .
i wouldnt have believed it either , though .
this isnt a protest .
this isnt even a statement .
this is just vandalism .
its just so , pointless .
these guys didnt have anything to do with the oil search .
its just science .
why would they attack science ?
and if they were part of it ?
he asked her , knowing where her loyalties lay .
would it have been an acceptable target ?
is this how the debate is to play out from now on ?
thats not fair , she said .
you know i would never condone this sort of thing , dont you ?
id hope not , but while were being fair , you have to admit that sometimes the things you say make it sound like its exactly what you would condone .
maybe not this , but in the right time and place , something like it .
someone just went a little further , this time .
she didnt answer , she just shook her head and walked through the tent , gazing at the destruction , her head down .
even her posture through the bulky clothes showed that she was mourning for what was lost .
he didnt say any more , knowing that the accusation had hit home .
any more would only be gratuitously piling on to what must surely be a growing sense of guilt that she had somehow brought this calamity upon bystanders who bore no standing in her quarrel with , him ?
he was the real target of the attack that was plain to see .
or what he represented .
no , he would say no more .
she would either see it herself , or she would not .
he loved her , and if love could be defined in a word , the word in this case was hope .
it was a hope that went beyond the need for reciprocity , though that was a beginning .
if there was to be hope , it would require that she see past her own prejudices , her most deeply held beliefs , and see that he , too , believed in something , and that that thing also had merit .
for he could not surrender his own beliefs in the hope of having her , as precious a thing as that might be .
he watched her and waited , looking for any sign of what she was thinking the hope strong , then fading fading , then strong .
but he waited , saying no more .
the otter touched down at williams field , the landing strip on the permanent or at least thats what they thought at that point in history ice shelf , where they could , for a while anyway , go unnoticed .
the navy was still using the strip on the annual ice , where wheeled aircraft could land .
willey field , as it was known , was a ghost town , even by antarctic standards .
in the not too distant future the annual ice would float away and willey field would once again become a bustling hub until air traffic ceased for the winter .
at that moment the field was manned by a cook , an electronics tech , and an equipment operator , whose job it was to keep the base operational until it came back into service .
out , max said , after taxiing the airplane to the base .
what do you mean , out ?
frodo said .
i mean you get your arse out of my plane , then i get the hell out of here .
now .
out of here to where ?
frodo asked .
terra nova , to start .
see if i can b.s .
some petrol out of the italians , before they get wind .
then on to oz .
take a nice long vacation , i recon .
id have to be stonkered to stay here .
i see , frodo said , only seeing that max was speaking aussie to make his point more firmly .
he wondered why they couldnt all go on , but if max had any intention of making that an option , he would have said so before showing them the door .
there was nothing for it but to get out .
all right , he said to his crew .
lets go .
im staying , sierra said , looking at max , who smiled and nodded .
me too !
crystal said , looking at max hopefully .
now he grinned broadly and nodded again .
me three ?
thumper asked , but without much enthusiasm .
maxs grin now turned surly .
out !
he repeated .
frodo opened the hatch and led the way for sokolov and thumper .
as soon as they were clear of the wing and out of the way of the propellers , max throttled up and taxied toward the ski way .
the three of them stood watching for a moment , until each realized they wanted nothing more than to be rid of the others .
unfortunately , there was no immediately recognizable means of escape .
by then the three navy crewmen who were manning the station had come to greet them .
hi !
how are you ?
whats going on ?
you want to come in ?
they all said at once .
we have food .
its not great , but theres a lot of it .
who are you ?
where you from ?
it was clear to the three newcomers from the way the three inhabitants were all talking at once and not waiting for answers to their questions , that they were so starved for conversation , apart from each others , that they wouldnt let anyone else get a word in .
frodo spoke for all .
we need to get to scott base as soon as possible .
do you have a snowmobile or something ?
he said scott base rather than mcmurdo since that would be his best chance .
the kiwis were always supportive of the cause .
the three looked crestfallen .
you dont want to stay ?
i can make pizza , the cook said enticingly .
this is an emergency , frodo said , allowing a tone of desperation to slip into his voice .
it could be a matter of life and death .
he didnt feel obligated to add that the life and death that potentially hung in the balance was his , since it wasnt their business anyway .
the three crewmen now began arguing about who got to make the drive back to scott base .
they werent technically allowed to abandon their post except in an emergency , but they were granted the freedom to decide what constituted an emergency , and this seemed like it would do .
the electronics tech won , pulling rank , which the others resented .
they piled into a pickup truck , frodo getting in the front , sokolov and thumper outside on the bed .
the road to the sea ice transition was kept plowed , the track marked with flags stuck into the rough ice .
just beyond the transition was ross island , and then only a few hundred meters to scott base .
frodo dodged the questions from the driver as best he could throughout the trip , re examining his position .
he had intended to take sokolov to scott base and see if they could help to get him out , but after being abandoned by his crew , he decided that this round was over and that he best look to his own survival .
thanks , man .
do me a favor though , would you ?
take these guys to mcmurdo ?
frodo asked through the open door .
sure thing !
the tech said , glad to have a reason to keep going .
just one , thumper said .
im getting off too .
you mean you dont want to go on to mcmurdo ?
frodo asked him , without more sarcasm than was due .
dont bother coming here , ill turn you right over to them .
dont worry , thumper said , shouldering his pack .
im done tagging along behind you .
what are you going to do , then , frodo asked , softening a little .
not an easy place to disappear into around here .
you dont think so ?
actually , theres all kinds of ways a guy can get lost .
i have a few tricks .
well , good luck then .
he held out his hand to thumper , who only hesitated for an instant , then took his hand before heading back in the direction from where they just came , toward the camp of ornaments and the stash of supplies he had hidden for just such a contingency .
frodo slipped around the back of the base , not wanting to be seen by any more people than was necessary , since he didnt know how quickly information was traveling , and what form it would take .
he skirted the open bay where heavy equipment was serviced , and slipped through the kennels to where geoff , the dog handler , would be .
though their usefulness was nearly obsolete from an operational perspective , the huskies were kept as a revered link to the past , and trains of dog sleds traversing the ice was a glorious sight .
geoff held an injured paw in his hand , rubbing balm into a tender pad that had been scraped raw by the rough snow .
the dog was howling loudly to the others who responded in kind , though not with any sort of real anxiety , it seemed more as if she was making the most of the special attention she was receiving , which had the effect of driving the others mad .
geoff tried to sooth her while he worked .
quit yer bitchin , would ya ?
youd think i were cutting it off for all the bloody racket .
bloody hell , what a nuisance !
after seeing that the coast was clear , frodo walked into the dog hut .
gday geoff , he said in his best kiwi accent .
geoff nodded appreciatively .
not bad , not bad , though you sound more like a bloody aukker on the piss .
im still working on it .
geoff , i need to disappear for a while , like permanently .
you wouldnt be the first , the kiwi said , mindlessly .
im serious .
theres been a misunderstanding , a big misunderstanding , and the navy thinks ive gone terrorist on them .
did you now ?
no , i did not , frodo said indignantly .
its just that im not going to get a chance to explain myself and , well , it might be a little hard to explain .
is there any way out of here that wouldnt attract attention ?
the kiwi cocked his head once , indicating it was tough one .
not right now .
all our people are coming and going on the yank planes .
a couple weeks and well have some flights into willey .
i need to go away for a couple of weeks then , frodo mused out loud .
were going out with the dogs tonight .
might come with us , if youve a mind to .
frodos eyebrows arched and his lips pursed as he contemplated .
where are you going ?
follow the coast , check in on some penguin rookeries .
cape roberts , cape day .
terra nova .
a regular tour , i daresay .
how long ?
just about the right amount , i shouldnt wonder .
are you in ?
frodo smiled a mischievous grin .
i am totally in .
chapter 19 mcmurdo station the skis of the c 130 touched down on the sea ice landing strip and taxied gently to a stop .
this was to be the last flight onto the annual sea ice before moving to willey field , the sea ice showing signs that it would soon be breaking up .
it was not a long flight , but susan had ample time for reflection , which she used to advantage .
the captain had ordered everyone , at least those associated with her , to break camp and load up after the demonstration by the green organization , and the spiriting off of sokolov .
she , jake , connie , and walt were joined by the russians , and lieutenant richards .
the captain flew the plane , and his co pilot , though she hadnt witnessed the events , had enough sense upon seeing her boss to keep the chit chat to a minimum .
dr. atkinson and director fredricks came as a matter of course .
it was a somber ensemble that arrived in mcmurdo , none more so than susan , who had spent the time in trying to reconcile her ever resilient sense of the righteousness of her cause , with the damage done to the other object most precious and dear to her heart , scientific cooperation among nations .
she concluded that it was her arrogance that was to blame for setting certain events in motion though not the main one , she reminded herself , and that realization made her humble , an altogether unfamiliar sensation .
lt. richards sat by her during the flight , and in the shuttle that took them to the chalet , but largely kept quiet .
when they arrived the captain spoke to the director for a moment , telling him that he was going to mac center to check in with his people , and to keep everyone together at the chalet until he returned .
the director repeated the request which bore the distinct impression of being an order , and they went in .
the two senior scientists took the russians into the directors office , and susan was left with her crew .
it was not lost on her that the captain left lieutenant richards with her instead of taking him along , and that made her feel even worse .
now what ?
walt asked .
susan didnt have an answer , but she knew what she expected to happen .
we get done with whatever it is were doing here , and get the hell back to work .
all our samples are still in the field , connie said , seeing past the optimism .
how will we get them home ?
were going back , susan said again , as if it were merely a matter of willing it hard enough .
im hungry , jake said , with his usual ability to focus on the most pertinent issue .
the lieutenant actually smiled .
jake makes a good point .
life will go on , and we with it .
you think so ?
susan asked , not willing to be cajoled into joining the budding hope fest .
well , theres one thing , lieutenant richards pointed out .
not much chance of anyone digging any oil wells in the near future .
or it goes the other way , she said , just to stave off any reason to feel better , and they go full speed ahead , now that there isnt anything to be gained by being circumspect .
sure , the lieutenant said , knowing what she was doing .
thats still a possibility .
she admitted to herself that what he said was probably true , but that didnt mean it was over .
this was one battle , not the whole campaign .
her goal was to shut down the possibility that these kinds of battles need ever take place in the future , and that achievement was still a long way off .
she got up and walked to the window , just because she was feeling restless , and looked out over the snow pocketed volcanic ash to see a truck coming to a stop .
she gasped when she saw who got out .
holy crap !
she proclaimed before catching herself , and then silently , but urgently , waved lieutenant richards towards the window .
she held a finger to her lips while nodding towards director fredricks closed door .
they all came over to see sokolov indicate questioningly towards the chalet and to see the driver nodding positively .
he was preparing to walk right in .
whoa , jake added to the conversation .
dude , walt said , affirming jakes comment .
no way , connie said , less as a commentary on the extraordinary turn of events than as a complaint that she was apparently in for more adventure , which she fervently hoped to be done with .
he cant come in here , the lieutenant said , stating the obvious , but in a voice that indicated he wasnt ready to voice an alternative .
oh no , susan said , looking past the truck toward the navy command building .
the captain had just closed the door behind him and stopped to zip up his coat before heading toward them .
we have to do something , the lieutenant said , looking at susan .
the captain will see him any second .
i know , susan said .
but let me handle it .
ive gotten you into enough trouble already .
you need to stay here .
but lieutenant richards started to say .
no buts , susan told him .
stay .
she reached up and kissed his cheek .
jake shook his head and grimaced .
floozy .
quit complaining , im taking you with me , she said , grabbing him by the sleeve .
sokolov was at the door by the time they came out .
she put his arm through his and started to lead him away .
oh no , he said , brought up short by the sight of her .
not you again !
no , you trick me once .
no more .
it wasnt a trick .
youre still in danger .
more danger from you , i am thinking .
i will take chances here .
she not only didnt know how to respond , she didnt have a plan .
she looked at jake for an idea .
he accommodated .
just look , he said .
come over here .
crouch down .
jake pointed to the window where the two scientists and the russians were discussing the situation .
sokolov pulled off his billowing fur hat to be less conspicuous , and peered through the glass as jake had requested .
his eyes went wide and he slipped down and out of sight .
do you see now ?
susan asked him .
yes .
see now , he replied , the active animation that had carried him through to this point evaporating , the effect of so many changes in fortune taking their toll .
so .
it is finished .
i wouldnt go that far , jake said .
but it will be if you dont move now .
yes , yes , i go .
but to where ?
thats a pretty good question , jake allowed him .
as far as anyone knows , youre en route to wherever frodo and his gang are headed .
now that i think of it , why arent you ?
they are more crazy than you people .
pilot let all off except girls .
then leave .
so , the others are here ?
susan asked .
two men .
they are not liking each the other so much , i think .
i do not know what happens with them , but i believe they are not together , sokolov said .
then no one knows any of you are here , susan said .
thats good , i guess .
we just need a place to hide you until we figure something out .
got to be scott base , jake said .
i know , but if we disappear , theyll come looking for us too , susan said .
they will for you , jake said , but no one cares about me .
tell them i went to get something to eat , which i am .
its just going to be at scott .
what will you do when you get there ?
she asked .
go to the galley .
foods better over there anyway .
with the russian ?
she clarified .
oh , i know a few people over there .
people come and go all the time .
hell be fine .
she reached up and gave him a kiss on the cheek , just like she did for the lieutenant .
thanks , she said .
hmph , he said .
youre always getting me to do things for you with the promise of whats to come , but it never does .
i dont know why i keep trying .
because you know there never could be anyone but you , and that i just need time to figure that out .
well , alright .
i guess thats true enough .
okay , were going .
go already !
she said , seeing the captain walking toward them .
she slipped back into the chalet just in time .
geoff , jake said , his head peeking out from around a corner .
mate !
geoff enthusiastically said in reply , rising and setting aside the mahogany calabash pipe he pulled from lips encased in black grizzle .
is there a body attached , or has just the head come to visit ?
momentarily concealed , jake said , stepping out from the shadowed corner .
cant be too careful , you know .
too right , laddie .
i thought you were still in the field , what brings you ?
the prospect of a good meal , geoff .
the prospect of a good meal .
probably be able to accommodate that , geoff said affably .
the kiwis , hospitable by nature , were especially so in the wild .
there was an unspoken , but fully understood , commitment by all members of their expeditions to remain cheerful and pleasant , come whatever hardships may .
hardship always seemed to be less harsh when shared with the kiwis , a consequence of their ever positive outlook .
and something else , jake said at the height of their comradely exchange .
bugger it , geoff said with amused suspicion , reaching for the still smoldering pipe and sitting back down .
i shouldve known .
you should have , but i wont hold it against you .
all right then , out with it .
it may be easier to show than tell .
allow me to demonstrate , jake said before calling to the half closed door .
you can come in now .
sokolov , who waited just outside for his cue , entered .
he still wore his leather outer gear and fur hat .
it was a dead giveaway that he was from russia .
no other country that worked in the antarctic wore such garb .
the kiwi pulled a deep breath of the acrid cavendish , his affable air now gone .
gday , he said politely , but cautiously .
i expect youre a little far from home .
arent we all geoff ?
jake mused sagely on the russians behalf .
but we , we geoff , we have a home to go to .
this gentleman no longer does .
no home to go to , eh ?
i should have thought that would have been your story , geoff said to jake , allowing a hint of irritation to hover over his reply .
pray tell how i am to resolve that bit of inconvenience ?
nothing complicated , jake said .
something simple , like say for example , passage out of here .
what do i look like , a bloody travel agent ?
geoff said , slamming down the pipe .
blame me if i dont start charging for services rendered .
now i know why i work with the dogs , theyre not so bleedin needy .
are there any more coming ?
should i call the porters to come collect the baggage ?
theres more ?
jake asked , looking surprised that the even tempered dog handler was in such a huff .
that greenie , frodo he styles himself .
came asking for the same thing .
a regular exodus its starting to look like , if you ask me .
what did he do ?
geoff asked , pointing the mouthpiece toward sokolov .
is he a terrorist too ?
not that i know of , jake said .
then , turning toward sokolov , asked , are you a terrorist too ?
sokolov sighed deeply , shaking his head in amazement .
his expectation of life in the free world was painted with images of intellectual exchanges among deep thinking individuals who sought the perfection of the mind .
surely that was what freedom to think and express must lead to .
but how to explain this ?
this was a world gone mad .
no , i am not a terrorist .
there you go , jake said , turning back toward geoff .
jake continued to cajole geoff , whose natural inclination was to be of service if he could , though he be much put out in the process , and he let himself be convinced in time .
sokolov left them to it and found his way to the crates where the dogs lived while in station .
they made much of him , nuzzling the steel mesh of their enclosures , pawing and howling for his attention .
he smiled and spoke to them in russian , telling them they were good dogs , what beautiful coats they had , and how brave they must be to have such adventures as they did .
i am not like you , i think , he told them .
no , he was not brave , he thought .
once the decision was made , the decision that he could not not act , he looked forward to what he had to do with dread .
and at each step , when confronted with imminent failure , he lost his nerve .
but to be fair to himself , he admitted that he got it back again when the next opportunity presented itself .
so now he was to ride and run along with the dogs , to where and what , he knew not .
but being with the dogs gave him courage , and he did not have the awful feeling in his stomach now .
in fact , he began to feel something quite different , an anticipation to go and see and move .
he would see where he was going when he arrived there .
and that made him eager to go , to see where that might be .
chapter 20 mcmurdo station the captain was preparing to bound up the steps to the chalet where susan and lieutenant richards were waiting to distract him when the boom of an exploding fuel drum sent them diving for the deck .
the captain was first to recover , and he looked up to see a mushroom cloud rising over the yard where the vehicles not in service were parked , and where the fuel for them was stored .
it was up the hill from where they looked , and the captain was sure that he saw a figure scurrying away that he recognized .
it was thumper .
what the hell ?
the captain asked before answering himself , theyre here , dammit .
whos here ?
susan asked .
your friends .
my friends ?
how do you figure that ?
she asked .
the captain began to answer , but lt. richards interrupted .
it looks like hes got flares , and is using them as fuses .
we need to get someone up there .
another drum went off , then another .
we will , the captain agreed , but then added , that means the russian is here too .
good .
they followed him into the chalet , where the captain made straight for the office where the scientists and the russians waited for him .
connie looked at susan with a frightened look on her face .
walt looked like a border collie , afraid he would be left behind while there was something fun to do .
she shook her head at them , in a not now manner , and followed the captain into the office .
okay , he said to the room at large .
theyre here .
well get them you can get your guy he said to the russians , and we will get ours he nodding menacingly towards susan .
but what is that going on up the hill ?
director fredricks asked .
theyre picking up where they left off at beardmore .
im going to put a stop to that right now .
wait for me here .
thumper admired his creativity in arranging the drums in a circular fashion , so that with the burning flares , from a short way off , they looked like candles on a cake .
make a wish , he said to himself .
just then , the first one exploded .
the shock wave knocked him from his feet .
the second one singed his eyebrows off and left his parka blackened and smoldering .
he crawled away on all fours like a crab , until he was behind an outcropping that shielded him from the growing conflagration .
whew hoo !
he said , laughing .
thats pretty fun .
when he was collected enough to move , he went to where he had stashed his equipment , skis and ice climbing gear , and began to make his escape .
there were a series of crevasses nearby , up the ridge and along a snowfield , where he had made his camp .
it was nearly hidden from view , the entrance into the crevasse , and a short way down was a ledge which was enlarged by his having carved out a half dome .
there was a bottomless latrine for his convenience , and the tent fit perfectly into the enclosure .
it was only a matter of fuel and supplies , other than that he figured he could survive until winter .
he hadnt thought any further than that .
it never occurred to him that he could be caught in his hideaway .
he watched the bumbling of the navy and the scientists in mcmurdo , and assumed they were all completely inept compared to his skills in the wild .
what he hadnt taken into account was , although the navy appeared like any other ineffective government agency in their capacity of supporting the program , they were in fact still the navy , and they were exceptionally well equipped to deal with the type of problem he had just thrown at them .
before he could slip down the rope to his camp he was surrounded by snowmobiles with a coast guard helicopter hovering overhead .
the antarctic treaty forbade weapons on the continent , and there were no implements to bind a prisoner with either .
no one had ever been taken prisoner before .
since thumper fought with his would be captors , and gave the impression that he had no intention of surrendering in that fight , he was subdued by wrapping his ankles and wrists in duct tape .
when he continued his resistance by hurling insults from his only remaining weapon , they taped over his mouth as well .
it was in this condition that he was delivered to the chalet .
where are they ?
the captain asked beginning his interrogation .
wheres who ?
thumper asked , smiling .
ill tell you what , the captain said , smiling too .
lets dispense with the bullshit .
we both know who , and what you are , and whats going to happen to you now .
id think youd just love to have the biggest soapbox on the planet to scream your story from .
i dont give a crap about that .
go ahead .
but your story can only grow bigger by giving us the russian .
theres no way to get him out of here , you know that .
let him go before he gets himself killed .
thumper thought quickly .
he was more than a little miffed that all the captain wanted to talk about was sokolov .
he thought that hed earned a pretty big spot on the enemies shit list , only to find that he was being treated like a common nuisance , and one who was supposed to turn stool pigeon , no less .
now wasnt that just perfect .
not only did he find himself in league with a bunch of morons , now the enemy couldnt even be bothered to know that he represented a vital threat to their earth killing policies .
thats just great .
he looked at the captain and thought it over .
if his so called allies didnt really care , and the target of his hatred didnt really care , why the hell should he ?
what happened to frodo was of no consequence to him , and seeing the girls finding themselves ensnared along with that airhead pilot could only be a bonus .
and he really didnt have any idea what happened to sokolov .
while he had no reason to care one way or the other about sokolov , he had nothing against him either , which was a lot more than he could say for everyone else of his antarctic acquaintance .
he knew one thing , though .
sokolov wasnt going to terra nova , or he would already be there , along with the aussie and the girls .
why not , he wondered .
why not cut the guy some slack ?
theyre at terra nova , he confessed .
terra nova ?
the captain replied .
what the hell kind of crap is that ?
youre here , theyre all here .
im the only one here .
the only reason they came was to dump me .
i guess my sparkling personality put them off .
bastards threw me out .
well , isnt that just a frickin shame .
terra nova , huh ?
for ?
gas , then out .
may already be out .
wouldnt that just be a frickin shame ?
thumper watched the captain pondering his words , and wondered if he believed a one of them .
probably not .
but then , thumper wondered , since no one took the effort to care about anything else anymore , he probably shouldnt lose too much sleep about this either .
he says terra nova , the captain told director fredricks and dr. atkinson .
they dropped him off , or kicked him off , then went there .
do you believe him ?
director fredricks asked .
not for a minute .
do you ?
the others pondered the question in silence .
i didnt think so .
so , what is there to be done now ?
dr. atkinson questioned .
what do we tell the russians ?
nothing yet .
contact washington and see what they think , then decide how much to share , the captain said with an air of command , suggesting that he was in his element and as a naval officer was trained for this sort of thing .
dr. fredricks , though the senior nsf person on station , and therefore the titular head of all that transpired within the american sphere , deferred to the captains proposal with a nod .
very well .
i will draft the message right now .
chuck stoddard walked briskly down the corridor of the building that housed the nsf polar sciences department in washington dc .
he was dressed in a tuxedo for a gala event that evening , celebrating the advancement in international cooperation that the sciences had helped to foster .
there would be more diplomats than scientists at the event , most of whom considered science as merely the medium for the real important work , diplomacy .
he felt like a prop , and was almost happy to have an excuse to bail .
this is definitely going to be a banner day in the annals of science advancing diplomacy , he said to himself sarcastically as he negotiated his way through the halls , and he wasnt talking about the dinner party .
he had just gotten word that a sit rep , a situation report , from the ice had landed on his desk .
the tuxedo seemed a completely inappropriate uniform for the task at hand , and his worried brow stretched the already taught skin of his forehead further , making the receding gray hairline appear that much more distant .
a younger man who indulged himself in self importance may have been allowed a fantasy about a james bond reference , but for chuck stoddard there was not much to fantasize about except an early retirement .
the naval attach and the undersecretary of state were already waiting for him in his office .
the secretary was dressed as he was the naval officer smirked in amusement at their costume .
have you read it yet ?
stoddard asked .
yes , the undersecretary said , but you go ahead .
then well talk .
alright .
he read the report silently .
it detailed how the rescue had been effected , the berthing of the russians at the camp , the inexplicable attack by the green organization with whom the nsf had jousted for years , but never violently .
then he got to the part where sokolov had been spirited off after asking for asylum .
are you kidding me ?
he wondered out loud .
ah , the undersecretary said .
i see your getting to the good part .
continue .
stoddard looked over his glasses at the two for some kind of sign .
there wasnt one , so he carried on , this time reading aloud .
we captured one of the terrorists who wishes for us to believe that they have taken the russian to terra nova .
we believe this to be misinformation to cover the others , and that they must have gone in the other direction , heading toward chile .
we have committed to the russians that we would help to rescue their kidnapped man .
what are your instructions ?
fredricks , he signs it .
we can not offer asylum in that environment , the attach said .
certainly not today , of all days .
no , the undersecretary agreed .
but kidnapped ?
why should they kidnap a russian scientist ?
chuck stoddard shook his head .
not like them .
they want publicity that embarrasses us .
why he wondered until he suddenly got it .
oh .
they think bringing attention to him will focus attention on the project , the undersecretary agreed .
which it will , the attach said .
but which is worse , bringing attention to something that is already out of the bag , or admitting to the russians that one of their own has tried to defect ?
it was clear to the others that this was a purely rhetorical question .
let them keep him , the undersecretary said definitively .
he wont be able to damage us any more that we already are .
lets , however , make every appearance of cooperating with the russians .
tell them theyve gone to terra nova like the guys says .
when we dont catch him there , its no harm , no foul .
we stay on good terms with our soviet friends .
i absolutely concur , the attach said , smiling slyly .
chuck stoddard shrugged his shoulders once and sighed .
ill message them back right now , he said , happy to be done with it .
ill make sure they keep the bar open for you , the undersecretary said jovially .
they all felt they had done a good nights work .
well what do you know about that ?
the captain said .
for once those washington guys seem to be getting it right .
so we just tell them something we know perfectly well not to be true ?
dr. atkinson asked haughtily .
welcome to the world of diplomacy , doctor .
it may not be pretty , but thats how its done .
dr. atkinson looked accusingly at dr. fredricks , who averted his eyes , and made a gesture which was enough to say that being in a bureaucratic position in a scientific organization had its compromises , but which had to be allowed .
tell them to come in , the captain said to marsha , dr. fredricks assistant .
she left the room , only to return an instant later .
gentlemen , the captain said convivially to the wary looking russians who entered the office .
we know where they are and where we can find them .
they have gone to the italian base of terra nova , which is not far from here .
gregore waited for the translation before answering .
they say they have taken him to the italians ?
he asked the interpreter .
yes , that is what they say .
do they have any better idea of why ?
he asked .
the interpreter turned back toward the three americans .
why would there be terrorists here , in antarctica , and why would they chose to abduct a soviet citizen ?
this puzzles us deeply .
have you no idea ?
he asked .
the three americans looked at each other for an instant , as if making silently queries amongst them as to how they should respond .
dr. atkinson , clearly displeased with having been made a party to the subterfuge as an unwilling accomplice , spoke first , trying to absolve his part with at least one honest answer .
it is our belief that these environmental activists refusing to refer to them as terrorists as the others had , regardless of the destruction that had been wrought , seized upon the idea that they could bring attention to their cause by creating a sensation .
the media frenzy that is sure to follow will suit their purposes in exposing the project he appeared to choke while speaking the word which you yourselves have come to examine .
in this i heartily wish them success , dr. atkinson said glaring at the captain , and at dr. fredricks in defiance .
i see , the interpreter said with introspection .
he then relayed what had been said to gregore , who nodded silently before requesting that they be given a radio and a closed room so they could confer with their comrades at the russian base of mirnyy .
it was granted .
what do you think ?
the interpreter asked when they were alone .
it is the most outrageous bald faced lie i have ever heard , gregore said without emotion , but who crossed his arms and leaned back in the chair .
it is preposterous to suggest that these protestors would kidnap a soviet scientist for any reason .
no .
this is not possible .
so you believe the americans took him after all ?
no .
i do not believe that either .
then what ?
asked the interpreter .
i believe that our comrade , he emphasized the word comrade with a deriding sneer , merely took the opportunity to commit treason .
what ! ?
the interpreter said in disbelief .
vladamir ?
never !
you have not experienced a winter alone with the man .
he was sent to us just so that he could not do something like this .
i have seen it in him .
i should have expected it .
then what do we do ?
gregore began to dial in the frequency that he knew was monitored at the russian base of mirnyy , but which was not on the americans list of frequented channels .
we do what we always do .
report , and wait for orders .
chapter 21 moscow chuck stoddards russian counterpart was seated at his heavy wooden desk that was polished to a purity of craftsmanship that enabled him to see his reflection in its finish , and this filled him with satisfaction .
the desk was a relic of imperial times and symbolized a power of a different sort in his age , but it was power none the less , which he had strived for and achieved .
it was a personal tragedy of the first order that he was soon to be separated from it .
that was his unbiased assessment .
the electronic epistle he held in his hand did little to relieve him on that score .
what does it say ?
his assistant asked .
the director of the russian science program blew out from between his lips .
that , you must see for yourself .
he handed the telex over the desk .
this is outrageous !
the assistant said upon completion of scanning the message .
yes , there is much outrage to be had on all fronts .
however , please be specific .
this was a signal to the assistant that his superior wanted him to break the situation down to its essential factors and give him an assessment of each .
first , gregore believes that the man is attempting to defect by going with the environmentalists .
this seems unlikely since he was already with the americans .
if he wanted to abandon his country , he could have done so right then .
maybe not so easily , the russian director said .
it could be that he tried , and was refused .
with what is happening between us and the americans right now , i would think they have to refuse him .
or , proceed very craftily .
but , continue .
second , the assistant went on after the interruption , this environmental group seems to be taking on a new character .
the making of noise that satisfied them before no longer appears to be enough .
they could become dangerous to us too .
i think not , the director said with a dismissive gesture .
they only attack wealthy countries , because wealthy countries have choices , which we do not .
besides , they know that we will not play games with them the way the western countries do .
they are not so foolish .
the assistant appeared to equivocate on this point , as if to say that the recent actions of the green organization should be taken as proof that they are that foolish .
but he did not argue the point .
third , the americans say that they have gone to terra nova , and that they can be intercepted there .
gregore is quite clear that he believes this to be a deception , though he does not give an explanation as to why .
interesting , the director mused .
why , if they had no part in this , would they feel obligated to make a deception ?
to embarrass us politically somehow ?
the assistant suggested , choosing a perennially safe answer .
no .
there is something we are missing .
both the men sat quietly now , pondering the situation .
well , the assistant said after a moment went by .
either we try to recover the traitor , or we do not .
that seems to be the essential question .
the director nodded .
if we retake him then we risk condemnation in the world at large , while now we appear to be the victim of an imperialist plot to corner the global oil supply .
if we do not try to get him back we send another message , a message that may inspire others .
both are bad choices .
unless it is to rescue him from the terrorists .
that would be the only humane thing to do , the assistant offered craftily .
i dont see how that helps us , we still have the inevitable question of if he went of his own will and that is not a question i would like to hear answered in front on strangers .
so , we make sure we dont actually rescue him .
he is of very little value to us militarily his work has been separated from actual programs years ago .
we let him go , and make the appearance of attempting to rescue him at terra nova like they would have us believe .
the director smiled .
i believe you will go far in this department , my young protg .
the assistant smiled with glee , as going far within the department , and surpassing his superior , was his only goal .
so , we tell gregore that his orders are to make a show of pursuing sokolov to terra nova , as a concerned countryman would , to rescue him in his plight , but to be sure that no rescue actually takes place .
correct ?
that is correct .
i will prepare the message right now .
terra nova ?
susan asked jake .
by dog sled ?
it gets better , jake said , allowing the anticipation to grow .
well , what gets better ?
frodos with him , jake said , expecting this tidbit of intelligence to cause a sensation .
the green guy ?
lt. richards asked .
as green as they get , jake said triumphantly .
when ?
susan asked .
already gone .
while jake continued to fill in the lieutenant on the rest of his visit to scott base , listened to intently by connie and walt with whom they had been rejoined , susan found a chair that was apart from the others and sat down to consider .
her field season had been diverted , her grant was dissipating with the loss of precious time , data was not being collected ...
the result of the data was to make a compelling argument for preserving the pristine places of the world , starting with the most pristine of all , the antarctic .
now , it appeared as if that argument was moot .
politics , not preservation , would stymie the exploitation of the southern continent .
it was a victory , but a weak one , since it would not be an encompassing shift in attitudes that would have a cascading effect on other future plans to despoil the resources of the earth .
and the victory was not hers , not really .
she had a role in the exposing of the plot , but that was about it , and that , she had to admit , bothered her .
it had never occurred to her that ambition played a part in her motivation .
she contrasted herself with lieutenant richards .
he performed his role in a plan that he had no love for , even seriously disagreed with from pure disinterested loyalty .
that was his job , and he did it .
before now she would have thought him a mindless automaton , a cog in the machine , but in getting to understand him better was able to see that he too had a higher motivation , a willingness to sacrifice something he considered precious , if something even greater can be saved in the future and to do so without ambition .
that became an example for her , and she concluded that there was still yet a role for her to play that could result in something positive coming out of what , to her , had to be considered a failure .
an act of compassion , which was not the sort of thing that came naturally to her , would make up for some of the loss .
steven said that thumper told the captain the russian was already there , at terra nova .
i wonder why he did that ?
she questioned aloud .
im not sure having reasons for things is that guys strong suit , jake cautioned with an air of authority on the subject .
well have to make them think he was lying , that they actually went to south america , she continued .
you think anyone is going to believe us ?
the lieutenant said , sounding somewhat plaintive .
until recently , everything he said was not only believed , but considered highly valuable .
no , but actions speak louder than words .
well make a diversion .
walt nearly jumped out of his chair .
ill do it !
he said .
what do you want to do ?
we could steal a plane .
do you want to steal a plane ?
oh my god , connie said , exasperated .
thank heaven you dont know how to fly one .
you do , dont you ?
walt asked the lieutenant .
youre in the air force , you work for nasa !
you can do it .
the lieutenant saw susan looking at him with a questioning look .
yes , i could , he told them , guardedly , but i am not going to be hijacking any aircraft .
walt looked dejected .
well , jake said in a tone of equanimity , we dont actually need to steal one .
we dont ?
walt said , now fully engaged in whatever it was that was going on .
no .
what we need is for theirs to not fly for a couple of days .
thats easy , walt said .
ill do it .
can i do it ?
walt , please , susan said , trying to settle her grad student down .
what then ?
we go fishing for red herring .
send them on a goose chase .
make them believe that the russian has gone somewhere onto the peninsula on his way to chile so that they look there , while we intercept him on the way to terra nova with a plan to get him off the continent .
what kind of plan ?
susan insisted .
damn , woman , jake chastised her sternly .
do i have to think of everything ?
you dont have one , do you ?
not yet , jake admitted .
well , i do .
it seems pretty clear that whatever i do or say , everyone is going to believe the opposite .
is our gear still out on the cargo line ?
susan asked jake .
if we had fuel , we could leave right now .
oh !
oh !
walt said , holding his hand up as high as he could , as if he was in a classroom and had the answer to a particularly difficult question .
young man , jake said , usurping susans position as the professor .
i believe we have hit upon a challenge commensurate with your skills .
proceed .
walt looked at susan for an instant , giving her an infinitely brief opportunity to contest the order , and when she didnt take it , he bolted out the door .
connie watched with open mouth his exit , and then turned toward susan for a brief instant herself , before she too dashed from the room .
vladimir sokolov sat on the sled watching as the dogs leaped out in front of him .
on one side geoff jogged along , on the other side , frodo .
the russian marveled at the conditioning these two must have to be able to keep up with huskies , though they were slowed by the sleds that were weighted down with gear .
the two ran along to help the dogs in their toil , holding on and pushing as they trotted .
the dogs were harnessed in a fan hitch configuration rather than in tandem , and they were spread out along side each other in greenlandic style , as geoff preferred the maneuverability afforded with that setup , thinking it allowed the team to wheel to the right or left in a tighter radius .
this he felt was a decided advantage when encountering crevasses , despite what others complained of , that having the dogs all spread out would increase the chance that one or a couple of them could stray into the hidden menace .
the dogs , he however found , had an uncanny ability to sense the danger and bypass it .
geoff had tried to make the russian comfortable on that point , upon which he was found to have much anxiety .
there was a cacophony of sound that accompanied their passage .
at the onset the dogs barked wildly , their enthusiasm to be going infectious .
once underway , the dogs quieted except for their panting , but the sled groaned under the weight and from the cold .
the sustrugi , as always , rasped with the friction applied to the brittle surface .
the handlers called their instructions to the huskies .
the humans conversed over the noise with each other .
when they stopped , the silence was remarkable in contrast .
the sky when they started was again that almost surreal azure that seemed to have the depth and texture of thick glass .
the light that filtered through gave dimension to the things of their limited universe ice , rock , dog , and man , that normally wouldnt be apparent to their sight .
and those added dimensions passed beyond the physical senses , the sight of everything in this uncanny light also filled their eyes with a sense of the ineffable , as if they too were lifted to a higher place in the purity of this light .
in this light sokolov observed his companions and the straining huskies .
he was inclined to love the dogs for themselves in any light , but in this light they looked as if they were gods own dogs .
it had been decades since he had allowed himself to ponder god , there being altogether too many subjects upon which he was embattled with his government already , but in this light he dared to think , and wondered if he were now somehow closer to the supreme being .
it was supposed in his country that as a man who studied the mechanics of the physical universe , he would have dismissed any though of a higher power as unscientific and superstitious .
on the contrary , he felt like every discovery brought him closer to the god of his fathers , and further from the godless state of the socialists .
the more he learned of the harmony of nature , the larger the place he saw carved out for the one thing that tied it all together , that set it in motion , and that gave it meaning .
some of this beneficence even shone onto his travelling partners .
frodo became almost a sympathetic character , as in this light his better nature was illuminated , and the meaner elements remained opaque .
geoff regained his simple and pure affability .
he recognized that sokolov , despite his lengthy tenure on the ice , was decidedly out of his element and made every effort to make him comfortable .
sokolov began to find the world making sense again , which only added to the incongruity of his perception .
to find the world making sense and meaning in its most inhospitable place was in and of itself contradictory .
but it was a contradiction that he was coming to appreciate .
frodo relayed to geoff the details of his encounter with the camp at beardmore , why he went there , how he ended up with sokolov , how they parted and consequently found themselves together again .
hearing the story told from the perspective of the environmentalist allowed the russian to see the strange man in different way , and while not altogether approving of him , he understood his passion .
geoff responded by making good natured jests of the affair , designed to poke fun at frodo , but without the intention of causing him any real discomfiture .
he enjoyed the story for its entertainment value without commenting on the ramifications implicit in the outcome .
the dog teams first made their way to cape royds where shacklton had erected his hut on the expedition of 1907 .
after spending the dark of winter in that hut the expedition hauled their materials to mcmurdo on the precise track that the teams now followed .
they found the hut exactly as it was left in the midst of the adelie penguin rookeries of which it was surrounded .
they didnt stay long .
the peak of the summer was fast approaching and the sea ice could begin break up at any time .
as it was they were pushing their luck on that score , but only needed one more day to cross the open sea ice , and geoff was confident .
they turned to the west and headed for the coast of the royal society mountain range and hogback hill where the glaciers that wend their way from the polar plateau finally broke upon the winter ice , their tongues protruding into the ross sea .
after that it was straight north following the coast to terra nova bay .
it was easier to travel on the annual ice for as long as it lasted .
the hope was that even after it broke up there would be enough still attached to land for the trip there and back .
if not , it would make for a rugged trip over broken glaciers and even dry land .
the group made camp the first night on the sea ice halfway from cape royds to the coast .
through the night the groans of pressure being translated through the ice resounded just below their ears as they lay in the tents .
there was a perceptible rise and fall as the waves moved underneath .
this settled the question , there was little time left and the coast must be obtained as quickly as possible .
they broke camp earlier than they had intended and ran for the mountains .
soon leads , fingers of open water , began to appear on the surface and sokolov thought they were finished , but geoff only rearranged the dogs into a tandem formation , and the lead dog leaped over the openings with the others following .
once they reached the hogback they ascended the wilson piedmont glacier , which ran parallel to the coast .
from there they watched as the ocean opened up beneath where they had stood only hours before .
sokolov momentarily lost the sense of well being he had acquired , but seeing the indominatable kiwi laughing at the perceived danger as if it were exactly what hed planned , sokolov again began to relax .
he came to the conclusion that these people he was with were either insane , or very , very adept at this mode of surviving .
perhaps one depended upon the other .
when they stopped to camp the second day there were clouds streaming across the sky and the now open sea was whipped to green foam .
the dogs were tethered a distance apart from each other , so each could dig out its hollow where it curled up to stay warm .
by getting the bulk of their body mass below the top level of the snow they could tuck paws and nose underneath , with only the thick fur exposed to the wind .
the drifting snow soon covered the huskies with a shield against the blow , and the dogs slept comfortably in their cocoons .
geoff , frodo , and sokolov shared a tent , a large mountaineering dome that was supplied by frodo .
geoff wanted to take a scott tent , the canvas and wood traditional shelter of the antarctic explorer , but frodo prevailed in the argument on the grounds that it was lighter and the dogs neednt be overworked for traditions sake .
it was also roomier , which turned out to be a good thing , since they were to be hunkered down for two days before the weather would permit them to move .
sandwiched as they were side by side in their sleeping bags through the storm with little to do but feed the dogs , eat , and melt snow for water , sokolov began to lose the reticence that had been so long instilled in him .
the dog handler spoke in the melodic tones of the unaffected new zealander , which inspired both confidence and confidentiality .
he and frodo talked incessantly , but neither pushed the russian to speak himself , as it seemed obvious that he kept quiet not out of any ill feeling towards them , rather there was some powerful constraint on his ability to do so .
but after an interlude when neither the activist nor the dog handler had anything to say , sokolov ventured to fill the void .
when i was 16 years of age , i was taken from the school where i was being prepared for the university and was marched to the polish frontier to fight the nazis .
it was january of 1945 and the division i was with was the first to enter warsaw .
the devastation we encountered was indescribable .
but as we marched through the terrible winter i shared a tent , not such a tent as this one , but still a tent you see with two other boys of my age .
while we were alone in this tent we never spoke of the horrors we had witnessed on the journey .
we spoke only of our homes , our lives , our loves , and our families .
it was not so different from this , when we were in this tent .
it is strange to say of that most horrific of times , but i miss those moments in that tent , and remember that part of the nightmare fondly .
thats what mates are for , mate to see you through .
sounds like you had some good ones , id dare say , geoff ventured kindly .
yes , they were , sokolov agreed with a sigh .
one was killed in germany the other was promoted but then later sent to the camps of the gulag .
he was never heard from again .
but you did go to the university , after that ?
frodo asked , trying to move the conversation away from its unpleasant turn .
yes , i went there .
and i graduated with high honors .
so much so that i was placed in the directorate that was tasked with developing atomic weaponry .
i had no say in the matter , but my feelings on this subject could not be concealed and eventually i was sent to where i could still do valuable , but less sensitive , work .
i wonder that i did not join the fate of my tent mate in the gulag system .
finding that sokolov was both an objector as well as a founder of nuclear energy was fascinating to frodo , who had many questions for him .
in this fashion much of the time under the wind driven tent was spent .
it took some little while for sokolov to be able to speak without measuring , censuring his words .
but he eventually found himself falling into camaraderie with these two new tent mates , and when the conversation shifted away from his past , he began to join in when their discourse shifted to less unfortunate circumstances .
by the by , geoff asked frodo , what of the girls ?
gone , said frodo without too much remorse for his loss .
cant say i blame them .
that whack job thumper sure made things hot for us .
neither of his two companions felt it necessary to debate the level of wackiness requisite to be part of that tribe , and courteously kept silent .
still , frodo went on after a pause , id rather not have gotten so unceremoniously dumped for that aussie .
geoff made a firm sign of affirmation .
always a bugger when an aukker gets the better .
well , you know , i have spent worse time in worse places with less enjoyable company , frodo said , the tone of his voice in the tent suggesting there was a wink going along with it , but im not sorry to be looking out for just myself right now .
damn , its good to be free !
both sokolov and geoff burst with laughter .
so this is the freedom i struggle so hard to find , sokolov said , joking for the first time in as long as he could remember .
very good , then .
i will endeavor to be worthy of it .
dont laugh , mate , geoff said , laughing himself .
it doesnt get any better than this , seriously .
its true , frodo agreed .
wherever you go , whatever you do , theres always something that gets its claws dug into you that keeps your time from being your own .
just being out in the open air with nothing to worry about but your days destination is as free as free gets .
im glad you see it that way , geoff said approvingly , since your continued freedom after the days destination is still very much in question , in case youd forgotten .
i had actually , and i intend to continue to do so , frodo said , contentedly dismissing this triviality .
tomorrows always another day .
the conversation carried on in this vein until each began to doze off .
during the second night the storm began to abate and as he drifted in and out of sleep , sokolov dreamed of endless horizons of white , the barking of the dogs , and the gentle rocking of the sled as it moved on into forever .
it was a very comfortable dream , and he slept as peacefully as he ever had .
chapter 22 mcmurdo station connie caught up to walt who was peeking out from behind the door of a quonset building at a group of men dressed in bunny suits , the full length red coveralls that mechanics wore while working outside .
all that the suit lacked was a white puff in the appropriate place to look like a childs rabbit costume .
some ears couldnt hurt either .
what are you doing ?
she asked .
dont know yet .
just seeing what is going on right now .
oh , she said .
what is going on ?
these guys are working on a truck .
looks like theyre almost done , walt said , without explaining why that was of interest .
and ?
she prodded , trying to extract more information .
this is a workshop .
the workday is almost over .
workmen hang keys on pegs , they dont put them in their pockets , walt told her .
oh , she said again .
so ?
exactly , he confirmed .
it was the same shop from where he had stolen the beer earlier in the season , and there was another case in the spot where the other had been , waiting for the men to finish their day .
walt felt it would be practically unforgivable to not steal it again just for humors sake , but as he was on a mission that was nearly almost legitimate from a certain point of view , he fought the temptation .
he was saved by the clock striking five , and the men took the case and headed toward somewhere more comfortable to consume it .
lets go , walt said when they were gone .
he dashed across the floor to where he saw the mechanic hang the keys and grabbed them with a swipe .
connie ran to the passenger side and slipped in .
they coasted out of the garage and turned down the hill .
there was still a commotion going on up the hill where thumper had set off the explosion .
while it would have been almost too easy to have gone there to get the fuel before the fire was started , it didnt hurt that most of the attention of the station was focused up the hill .
walt drove slowly over the ash roads through the base , looking no different than any other scientist might on the edge of antarctica .
there should be fuel at the airstrip , connie said , trying to get into the spirit .
yeah , but it would be jp8 or dfa .
what the hell are those ?
connie asked .
jet propulsion dont know what the 8 is for , or diesel fuel .
arctic blend .
so where do they keep the gas ?
a couple of places .
finding it isnt a problem .
its doing it in style that counts , walt said , driving around to the back of the navy operations center .
next to the command post was the captains private quarters , and by which there was a drum mounted on skis which contained fuel for his private use .
it had a ball hitch on the front for towing .
thats better , walt said , driving slowly by and trying to look inconspicuous while doing recon on his target .
much , much better .
no such thing as the easy way , is there ?
connie asked , her voice answering the rhetorical question for him .
this is easy .
doesnt make it any less fun , though .
he circled around one more time to be sure the way was clear before backing up to the fuel barrel and attaching it to the truck .
he drove away slowly , smiling broadly and waving happily to everyone they passed .
lt. richards strode into the flight operations center looking like the consummate professional officer that he was .
since no one knew him except the captain , who was busy back at the chalet , he neither expected nor received any notice , nor was he challenged by any of the other staff .
he first checked in on the weather center and read the forecast that anticipated the gathering storm in the ross sea .
good .
that meant that further flights would be shut down until it passed .
with that being the case , it became only necessary to rewrite the past , which was far easier than creating a future .
in the communications room he nonchalantly examined the outgoing flight manifests for the day .
he paged through a couple until one caught his eye .
there were a pair of aging bases in what was referred to as west antarctica , in an area that the chileans claimed as their territory .
the united states had gone to great effort to actively debase that claim , most notably by building stations there and refusing to acknowledge the chileans as their host .
the chileans , by contrast , tended to show up at the camps at regular intervals , giving the appearance that they considered the occupants as their guests , uninvited or not .
as the time approached for the bases to be abandoned , the chileans turned up more often , shamelessly taking measurements and inventory of what they thought would soon become their own .
for a reason that was not immediately obvious from the manifest , a group had flown to mcmurdo with intentions posted that indicated a stop at one of the bases before returning to tierra del fuego .
they looked like very likely prospects for incrimination .
flight manifests were taken very seriously by all parties , since they were often the only link to discovering if someone were alive or dead , accounted for or lost .
they were always managed with accuracy .
for this reason lt. richards found it to be highly unlikely that anyone would suspect that the forgery he was about to commit could possibly be a forgery .
besides , if there were to be a forgery in this case , it would be to hide the russians presence , not record it .
and the chileans could not have any more known they were doing anything untoward by carrying an extra passenger than they did now .
simply adding a name to flight that was already in progress would not end up being sufficiently helpful , there needed to be an incident which would require the manifest to be reviewed .
unfortunately , the flight would have to meet with some disaster more or less grave .
the lieutenant mollified his conscience by reminding himself no real harm would come to the innocent chileans , at least he hoped not .
he slipped the page out of the binder on the flight following table , made a quick change , then inserted it back in before anyone could see him .
then he made notes on a small pad with the crafts call signs and real passengers .
then he continued on his way through the facility before exiting through the rear door .
so ?
susan asked him .
done .
good , she said .
lets go see where we are with the fuel situation .
they walked down the hill toward the coastline where their equipment was lined up on the ash beach .
they found walt finishing fueling the alpines and filling the spare gerry cans .
connie sat on the seat , tucked deep into her parka .
jake was supervising .
all ready ?
susan asked him .
one completely outfitted expedition at your service .
we were loaded to traverse from the beardmore camp to here .
we are just as ready to go anywhere else now .
name your destination .
well , since we lost our own overland journey from there to here , i feel like they kind of owe us one , she said , seemingly to justify her intentions to those who supported her .
there are going to be some pretty pissed off people around here soon , if this goes well anyway .
darling , jake said to her .
it would appear as if the answer to that is to not be around here any longer .
are we going or not ?
she didnt answer immediately , but bit the tip of her glove .
connie and walt , susan said firmly .
i want you two to stay here .
theres only so much that can happen to me , but you two could end up getting expelled .
i cant ask you to do that .
connie looked up sharply at that , as if she had been granted a longed for , though not much expected , furlough .
walt looked crestfallen , but determined to fight .
if we get left here , there wont be anyone to blame except us .
you cant !
he explained .
fear not , my young apprentice , jake told the distraught grad student , patting him on the shoulder .
there is much yet you can accomplish here .
there is ?
both walt and susan asked at the same time .
quite .
mayday , mayday , mayday , the heavily accented voice burst over the guard frequency .
it was heard simultaneously by the flight followers in mcmurdo and by the chilean twin otter , the sleeker and more versatile cousin to the dornier aircraft .
this is lima alpha india one one niner .
we are going down near the patriot hills with three souls on board .
mayday !
the two pilots that were flying the otter looked at each other in stunned disbelief .
lai 119 was their call sign , it was they who were calling in the mayday .
the co pilot keyed the mic .
eh , pour favor ?
please to say again ?
was the confused transmission .
but before a reply could be made to lai 119 , mcmurdo responded .
we copy lima alpha india .
copy you are in distress .
can you give your papa ?
the papa was their position .
se , se , the voice said and it went on to list a group of coordinates .
the chileans kept trying to get through , but it was clear that their radio did not have enough power to reach all the way to mcmurdo .
so , they copied the coordinates and the navigator drew them out on the map .
this is where we are !
he said , shaking his head .
impossible , the pilot said .
could it be someone else ?
someone who doesnt know who they are ?
and who thinks they are us ?
true , the pilot agreed .
but.. ?
but before anyone could answer mcmurdo came back on .
okay , lima alpha india .
we have you .
when you put down try to make contact with an alls well and we will figure it out from there .
good luck .
gratzie , the voice said in an italian accent before catching itself and hurriedly added , gracias , gracias .
muchos gracias .
the chileans did not know what to make of this mystery , but they agreed that if there was an answer to it , it may be found on the ground at the location of their supposed accident .
they began to descend .
gratzie ?
connie said , her voice rising .
gratzie ?
i couldnt think , walt said .
i drew a blank .
oh , lets just get out of here before something else happens .
the helicopter was parked just behind the chalet , and the two of them had been able to sneak onto it without being seen .
powering up the radio was not overly complicated , with some prior instruction from lt. richards .
they carried a battery operated drill that connie ran while walt talked that lent the kind of background noise usually associated with an aircraft in flight .
it appeared to have worked .
they backtracked around the jamesway camp , the tents where most of the tradesmen lived while on station , past the machine shop where they had so far stolen a case of beer , one truck , and a drill .
walt replaced the drill and called it even .
then they scrambled up observation hill so that they could look out over the ross ice shelf to see if they could spot the caravan of alpines and nansen sleds .
they could just barely make them out as the oncoming storm blew snow drifting over the ice .
i sure wish we could have gone with them , walt said , sadly .
im sure glad we didnt have to go with them , connie said at exactly the same time .
they both laughed and looked at each other , their glance lingering for just an instant .
im even more glad you didnt either , connie said , just barely above a whisper .
walt looked at her like he was seeing her for the first time , and his eyes widening , jaw dropping .
he stammered something , suddenly at a loss for words .
but she slipped her arm through his and didnt say anything as they watched the departing train as it disappeared into the deepening clouds .
i knew it , the captain said , looking over the manifest .
he had been called as soon as the distress call was made and as a matter of course examined the paper that listed the souls on board , flight plan , and cargo .
for an instant he found himself nurturing a suspicion , but it just as quickly dissipated when he considered the chileans .
he figured that someone asked them to give sokolov a lift and that they thought nothing of it , as long as the proper protocol was maintained .
besides , he wasnt that impressed with the chileans , they seemed more like scavenger hunters than true scientists .
maybe someone had paid them off .
regardless of why they did it , it played into his hand admirably , and he did not waste time taking advantage .
should we launch a sar ?
the watch officer asked him .
a sar is a search and rescue operation .
a sar ?
the captain asked back .
what for ?
the ship in distress message we just received ?
the officer replied , looking at the captain confusedly .
the aircraft that was going down ?
ah , dont worry about that , the captain said , shocking the officer further .
let the chileans deal with them .
theyre the ones who inflicted them on us in the first place .
see if you can message them and tell them they need to come look for their guys .
when the appalled officer just stared at the captain with eyes wide , he clapped her on the shoulder and said , just do what i tell you , okay ?
good girl .
from the operations center the captain went back to the chalet , his green parka swinging open despite the wind of the growing storm .
he walked briskly , looking forward to the next task at hand .
he decided that this was actually kind of fun .
he entered into the hall where connie and walt sat looking dejected and contrite .
alright you two , he said without preamble .
tell me again where your boss has gone ?
walt looked at the ground and connie sniffed as if she were fighting back tears .
terra nova , she said , wiping her sleeve noisily across her nose .
and why ?
i dont know , she said pathetically .
dont give me that , the captain said his demeanor stern .
besides , i already know .
she has the russian , doesnt she ?
connie hesitated , but then nodded her head in the affirmative , the sight of which made walt turn his back to her , kicking the leg of a chair as he did so .
okay , fair enough .
as far as im concerned you kids didnt do anything wrong and i dont blame you for trying to protect your boss .
id do the same thing .
for now , just get yourselves berthed and lay low till we figure out what to do with you .
now get going .
the two of them avoided each others eyes uncomfortably while they shuffled out of the chalet until the door was closed behind them .
then walt gave her an enthusiastic high five .
nice job !
he said to her .
she threw her arms around his neck , jumping off the ground , thrilled to have done something more than just tag along for the ride .
the captain pondered the information the two grad students had offered him while settling into a chair .
it was pretty smart of susan engen to set up her own students to confirm the diversion she was making .
but she didnt know that he already knew that the russian was already bound for chile .
what she couldnt know was that he didnt care .
now that she was creating the illusion that sokolov was en route to terra nova , he had an even better excuse for pursuing him in the wrong direction .
very good .
he walked across the hall to where the russians were waiting .
its confirmed , terra nova , he said .
the russians looked at each other , their expressions not revealing their thoughts , but their eyes betraying that whatever thoughts there were between them , they each understood the other perfectly .
gregore nodded subtly to the translator .
excellent .
if we depart now , will we arrive before them ?
if we depart now , the captain said , we wont be arriving anywhere , except into the side of a mountain .
well have to wait out the weather .
and yet , it would appear as if the weather did not delay those whom we wish to pursue , yes ?
the captain thought quickly , but gave no indication that he was playing at subterfuge .
if my first thought was correct , they would have arrived there too long ago for us to be able to catch up to them at all .
however , what the captive terrorist told us is proving to be only partially true .
the greens that you saw attacking the field camp , and spiriting off your guy , didnt take him with them .
they left him here , not sure why .
dr. engen , of whom i spoke to you , has taken him herself .
susan engen ?
taking sokolov to terra nova ?
have you gone mad ?
dr. atkinson said in complete consternation to the captain , who immediately regretted saying anything in front of the scientists .
im afraid so , doctor , he said , appreciating his own acting skills .
you know how she is about causes .
i guess its the stray puppy syndrome .
shes adopted herself a russian .
so they journey by land ?
the russian translator persisted in asking , looking anxiously for clarity on the subject .
if you want to call it that .
but yes , by snowmobile .
and no , i do not want to follow them on a miserable overland trip .
im going to wait out the weather , then fly there .
the captain watched the russians as they discussed his proposal , and listened to the scientists voicing their disbelief , but he waited for the tone of acceptance of the facts that was the same in all languages .
when he heard that he told all to get settled into lodgings and await further notice .
susan drove the second snowmobile , following jake as he led the way through the storm .
lt. richards sat behind her on the seat , looking over her shoulder .
there had been an argument , though a small one , about who should drive , and the lieutenant received a lesson in dealing with susan when her mind was focused on something she wanted .
the message was simply stand down or stand clear .
with the annual sea ice having broken up in recent days , the three had no choice but to follow the edge of the permanent ice shelf .
they traveled through the storm without fear , only because the route was well marked and broken in by regular traffic by scientists working the area .
the route from cape armitage to cape chocolate on salmon bay was flagged and safe .
there they would turn due north and eventually intersect and follow the path of the dog teams until , hopefully , they caught them .
though the alpines moved at a far faster rate than the dog teams , they had a much longer track to follow .
and the group that included sokolov , frodo , and geoff had a significant head start .
susan felt reasonably sure that her ruse will have worked .
her reputation alone should have been enough , but experience should have taught the captain to distrust anything she said and to expect that anything she did would be to lead him in the wrong direction .
he would have to conclude that she was misleading him now , and determine that if she were acting as if she were taking the russian to terra nova , he could be sure that sokolov could be anywhere but there .
susan was , at the moment , quite pleased with herself .
it was cold driving into the windblown snow , but she didnt want to stop .
she had been aching for the opportunity to be going somewhere , and while this was not what she had intended for the conclusion of her field season , it would have to do .
she could forget about the remaining three years on her grant anyway , she might as well go out big since there was zero chance of ever being welcomed back again anyway .
they made camp at butter point , which was on the edge of an area of sea ice called new harbour .
on the other side was hogsback hill , where the dog teams had come ashore .
the ice appeared to be stable even with the main part of the sound having been blown out .
jake said that he thought the storm would abate in a few hours , and they were due for a break anyway .
making camp in an antarctic storm after sitting motionlessly on the back of a snowmobile for several hours is a challenge .
cold muscles are reluctant to move .
simple feats seem superhuman with a metabolism that has slowed , begging for sleep .
they worked like drones , focusing on setting the tents , cutting blocks for the latrine .
when the two tents were secure the three of them looked at each other uncomfortably .
you can still change your mind , jake said to susan , breaking the silence and nodding towards his tent .
his banter sounded flat in the wind and on tired ears , to the effect that it did not sound like joking at all .
i can still kick your butt , she replied gamely , adding an element of levity that his comment seemed to lack .
ah , jake said , nodding gravely .
thats true .
id forgotten .
well , good night then .
jake disappeared into his tent and susan and the lieutenant into theirs .
that was a little harsh , lt. richards said to susan when they were inside .
what was ?
she asked .
what you said to jake just now .
for all the joshing , i still think he has some feelings for you , and that they may be hurt .
feelings ?
susan said , scoffing .
what makes you think he has feelings ?
hes an oaf a funny one , but an oaf .
susan laughed as she said this , she was joking after all , but lt. richards sat stiffly and uncomfortably wrapped in his sleeping bag anyway .
im not arguing his case , he said as a disclaimer , but you can be pretty casual about tramping on peoples sensitivities sometimes .
thats all im saying .
go easy on him .
so what , do you feel trampled on ?
is that what this is about ?
no , i dont .
i just think it must be hard on him , all of us in close quarters like this , and you being with me .
its hard on a guy .
i know what i would be feeling if it were me in the other tent .
susan let out her breath and sank down with a groan .
so , what do you want from me ?
am i supposed to go jump into his sleeping bag now , so he doesnt feel left out ?
is that what you want ?
of course not .
well then , quit complaining. at some point during the night the wind slackened , but it didnt stop completely .
jake was the first to emerge from the shelters and he stretched as he looked out over the landscape they could not see when they stopped .
anybody else getting up today , or am i it ?
he said to the other tent .
there was a rustling of nylon and the sound of zippers , before the other two came out and joined him in the stillness .
did you make coffee ?
susan asked jake , who stood silently and watched her and the lieutenant getting their things in order .
sweetheart , he said in as dignified manner as he could assume , as you can see i make a great many allowances for you , but that would be an excess of affection under the circumstances , dont you think ?
lt. richards looked at jake uncomfortably , and then busied himself with digging out the alpines .
which circumstances are you talking about ?
susan couldnt help but ask .
she thought about the lieutenants admonishment of the night before and wondered if jake were in fact masking his thoughts with innuendo and if she were wounding him by responding in kind .
it wasnt that she was unaware that she had a propensity to be blunt , but it still seemed unlikely that jake would be affected by it .
jake sighed .
ok. have it your own way then , he said .
nothing had changed in the way that jake said the things he did , and susan wouldnt have noticed anything to be different except for the lieutenants comments to her , but she recognized that there was something missing in the way he spoke to her .
he almost did sound as if he was speaking truthfully .
she preferred it the old way .
thats alright , darling , ill do it , she said , playing her part to see if she could get him to respond like he always would have .
he merely nodded .
there was a discussion as to whether the conditions were acceptable to continue the journey , and it was decided that they would remain where they were for a few hours and see if the weather would improve .
it wasnt bad , but they would be traversing an area that required visibility and it would be less risky to wait for the storm to clear out .
susan took the opportunity to explore the geology of the escarpment against which their camp was abutted .
she took jake with her lieutenant richards went back into the tent .
lieutenant richards pulled his sleeping bag up to his hips , overlapping his parka , and leaned against a duffle bag of equipment .
he went about examining his notes to pass the time , he still considered himself employed in the project with which he had been tasked , and began to draw conclusions from the data he had recovered .
there was something that seemed to be not quite in line with what his other observations were and he was puzzled .
next to him was susans pack with her field notes lying open and he looked for her pages that aligned with his to see if he could clear things up .
the differences were subtle , but different enough to precipitate vastly opposing perspectives on what the net findings implied .
he set the papers down and stared at the tent walls , his expression showing contrasting emotions , the eyes wide with disbelief , the cheeks and mouth hanging with a sadness that understood all too well .
susan entered the tent when she and jake were back from taking stock of the local geology .
she saw his expression and asked him what was wrong .
he held up the offending paper .
oh , she said .
going through my things ?
i might have expected that from jake , but you ?
she spoke in a joking manner , as if to make light of her new predicament , but her eyes showed something akin to fear , the fear that something she didnt want to change was suddenly being torn apart .
i wasnt snooping .
i was going through my notes and something seemed wrong .
yours were right there and i wanted to see if i could figure it out .
i did , he said , looking away from her .
that was before , she started to say , her voice pleading for understanding .
that was before , before everything .
you know how it was before .
i know you never approved of my job here , he said , but i never thought you capable of lying to me , and continuing to lie after , well , after everything .
i wanted to tell you , and i didnt do it anymore after i knew how you felt about what it means to find the deposits here .
you didnt want to find anything either .
do you blame me for trying to make sure that you didnt ?
he shook his head in the negative , in a sign that could have been determined to mean that he did not find fault , but that image was soon dispelled .
blame ?
he said .
how can i blame you ?
you were only doing what you thought was right and being who you are .
the fact that i would never do the same thing towards you only makes us different .
i guess we are different , in ways that are more difficult to bridge than i thought .
and you dont call that blame ?
she said , her voice rising from the angst of being condemned for doing the only sane thing someone in her position could .
you were sent here to destroy this place .
i wasnt going to allow it .
even you agreed that it couldnt be allowed to happen .
ok , i didnt tell you what i was doing .
im sorry .
but dont treat me like im some kind of ogre and youre some kind of saint .
im the one who has been on the right side of this all along .
you are not an ogre , and i am not a saint .
but you are always just so right all the time .
so right in fact , that doing what you think needs to be done absolves you from any responsibility to act decently , even toward me .
im sorry too .
ive never wanted to be so right that i could act that way especially not towards you .
susan declined to see the justice in his argument , and began to bundle her things together .
where are you going ?
he asked .
somewhere else !
she yelled at him .
there arent many places you can go , he pointed out reasonably .
ill find one .
she left the door of the lieutenants tent flapping in the wind and tore open jakes , throwing the bedding in on top of him .
at long last , jake said without turning over to look at her , you return .
if only you knew with what anticipation ive dreamed of your coming back to me .
i may even forgive you , in time .
dont start with me , she said .
im not in the mood .
doesnt it matter if i am ?
besides im serious .
oh good god , thats all i need .
interesting you should point that out , jake said , twisting in his sleeping bag to face her .
i have been pondering that very question .
its just what you need , for me to make an honest woman of you .
not that i havent tried , you know , but the soil ive tilled has so far not proven to be fertile .
but i think it can be .
do we really need to do this right now ?
susan said , tears welling up in her eyes , and a sob escaping despite her attempt to hold it back .
cant you see im dying here ?
it was plain enough to see that what she said was true and jake , abandoning the demeanor he wore only for her , sat up and put an arm across her shoulder .
i know , he said .
im sorry .
its got to be hard , even though the outcome was inevitable from the start .
but you bucked the odds and went with your heart , or something sort of like one anyway , and thats admirable .
what do you know about it ?
she asked , though she was sorry for the harsh tone immediately .
darling , he said , how thick do you think these tent walls are ?
i know exactly how many times you roll over in your sleep at night .
i know that you murmur something after you do before making a single snore and falling back asleep .
id have to be deaf not to hear you yell .
well then , if you know so much , was i wrong to do what i did ?
you were there the whole time .
hell , you encouraged it .
he thought for a moment before answering .
thats true , i did .
but that was before i got to know him as a person , and just thought of him as an it .
so , how do you think i feel ?
she asked him , implying that if jake saw it that way , she must do so infinitely more .
doesnt that answer your question for you ?
jake said , quietly .
i know , she agreed .
i feel like crap .
he nodded agreement without verbalizing the sentiment .
you can get over that , he said .
but that doesnt solve the problem of what he told you a few minutes ago .
you are different .
not just in opinions about things , but youre different types of people .
you may be drawn together by a kind of magnetism , but thats the problems with magnets .
you align them in ever so slightly a different way and they repel just as strongly as they attracted before .
your alignment was bound to shift at some point .
susan leaned back and looked at jake for some sign that he was toying with her , then turned back the way she was before , the two of them sitting side by side .
i know .
i guess ive always known , she said .
thank you for not making light of this , at least not right now .
you know , youre a pretty good friend after all .
he made much of sighing deeply and frowned .
i know .
i cant help it .
well , it wont kill you , susan said , again regretting the tone she took with him , which had become a habit .
if it turned out that his attitude towards her was an act , what did it make hers towards him ?
it worried her that her ability to play the harpy came so easily .
that , my dear , jake said , remains to be seen .
chapter 23 russian stationvostok the days after sokolov had left vostok were hard on trevor , his friendship with the russian had helped to fill the hours with something other than contemplating his isolation .
and then , jake had mysteriously left beardmore consequentially he had no one with whom he could converse , even over the radio .
his worries were eating at him , and he was about all ate up .
the tragedy of the crevasse hung over the station , the pallor that he already felt was reflected and magnified by all around him .
it was known that the survivors had been rescued and taken to beardmore , but what had taken place after that was not .
at least not until the track vehicle caravan arrived , bringing with it the injured driver and those who had passed through beardmore .
trevor , along with everyone else , was there to greet them .
the procession came to a halt before the galley module .
the rear door of the structure on the trailed sledge opened , and men hurried to help the invalid .
from the cabin of the lead vehicle there stepped a man who required no insignias on his apparel to announce that he carried authority with him .
the crispness of the black leather coat , the richness of his hat , his stature which projected a challenge to any whom might misinterpret he looked over the group as a shepherd dog might his flock , without any particular affection for those under his protection , but which spelled woe unto those who meant to do them harm .
where is the spy ?
he asked after taking in the scene .
he was answered by the space that was immediately created around trevor , who did not understand the question , nor the response .
good .
bring him inside .
there were apologetic looks from those whom trevor had , if not become friends with , were at least silent companions who overcame the language barrier with gestures and signs .
they waved at him to follow the new commander .
whats going on ?
he asked , but no one answered .
the russians led him into the galley and into the radio room that was the base commanders personal space .
sit , he was told .
trevor sat uneasily and waited for someone to speak .
both of the russians were new to the base , and they looked at him with blank unfriendly stares .
finally the new commander spoke .
is it the custom in your country to repay hospitality with treachery ?
huh ?
trevor asked , his jaw dropping down and eyebrows raising up , elongating his face into frightful distortion .
what i asked is , the russian questioned him in a haughty voice and looking down his nose , when you are a guest in someones home , is it your practice to seduce your hosts wife or daughter under his very roof ?
does somebody here have a daughter ?
trevor asked stupidly , not understanding where this conversation was leading .
daughters ?
no .
but sons , yes .
we are all sons of the fatherland , one of whom has been taken from us .
now do you understand ?
is it about the accident ?
trevor asked innocently , but he was beginning to grasp that this was something quite sinister , and while he had no idea what was going on , began to suspect it had to do with sokolov .
the two russians looked at each other , each gauging the others credulity .
one shook his head in a barely perceptible side to side motion .
the other nodded in an equally subtle fashion .
it is of no matter , the russian said .
the mistake in allowing you to come here to corrupt our people is evident .
since we can not try you as you deserve , it is pointless to waste time in this manner .
pack your things , and hurry .
there is an italian aircraft stopping to refuel in one hour .
it will take you wherever it is going , so long as it is not to a russian base .
be gone !
trevor rushed from the galley more than a little confused , but with mixed emotions .
to be accused of something , even if he didnt know what it was , by the soviets was frightening enough , but he also felt elated to be going , even if he didnt know where .
wherever it was , it was closer to home , and that was what he was desperate for .
he packed hurriedly .
organizing his personal effects required little more than stuffing them into a duffle bag .
his scientific samples were far more problematic , since it was necessary that they remain frozen all the way back to his lab .
the italian otter was fueling when he asked the russians what they intended to do with them .
we do not fail to live up to our agreements .
they will find their way to mcmurdo in due course .
but they did not say how , or when , that would happen .
once the otter was airborne , trevor asked the pilot where he was going .
what ?
yous a dont a know where yous a goin and yous a getting on an airplane a anyway ?
what a you , a crazy ?
trevor acted out his consternation with gestures since the coat , hat , and goggles made subtlety impossible .
it seemed like when was more important than where , though i still couldnt tell you why !
he shouted over the noise .
who cares a why , just so long a its a outta there , the pilot said , glancing at trevor from the side , a look that summed up the reality of living at vostok .
thats for sure , he agreed .
so where are we going ?
terra nova .
not so a bad as the a ruskie base .
notta so bad .
will i be able to get to mcmurdo from there ?
trevor asked , concern creeping into his voice .
the pilot shrugged .
sure , someday .
why a not ?
trevor knew that the pilots choice of words was intended to convey the idea that he would surely find his way to his destination , but they had the effect of making him feel like just the opposite was true .
even with sunglasses on and earphones covering half of his face , the pilot could see the young man in the seat next to him was quite forlorn .
he made an effort to cheer him up .
i tell you a what .
i show you something like a you never see before .
on a the way .
you like a this .
the aircraft healed over to the right before straightening back out as the mountains came into sight .
terra nova was on the coast at the bottom of the glacier , but where they were heading now was over the taylor valley , the driest place in the world , where it had not rained or snowed in millions of years .
it was an extraordinary sight after weeks of nothing but ice and snow .
the pilot saw with what fascination trevor looked out the window , so he decided to make the trip more interesting for both of them .
he descended until they were just off the deck , with the rock walls of the valley speeding by .
trevor grasped the hand rests unconsciously , his knuckles showing white and his backbone straightening up firmly .
is very a yes , no ?
the pilot asked , taking his body language as a compliment .
yes .
its very , very yes .
we can go back up anytime now .
thank you .
ah , no yet .
wait until bottom .
trevor didnt like the sound of bottom , but he was beginning to see where the bottom was , the ross sea extending out from the coast where there was a strip of glacier at the bottom of the valley .
they were heading straight for it , trevors grip becoming firmer .
dont you think its time to pull up ?
he asked not a yet .
almost .
in the midst of the glacier there were two black lines that appeared like hyphens on a blank page .
as they came closer the hyphens opened up into dots and dashes that were moving .
it wasnt until they were right on top of them was it clear that the lines were made of dogs , men , and sleds that all went scattering or tumbling over in response to the terrifying roar that went over them .
what a the hell was that ?
the pilot asked , heading out to sea to make a wide turn to make another pass .
i dont know , but i sure hope we dont meet them later , trevor said , trying to contain his anger at the pilot for scaring the dog teams as much as he scared him .
take another look .
as the wide turn they made took them over the water and was bringing them back toward land , the otter straightened up and followed a course that led up the coast .
to their surprise , not far from where they expected to see the upset dog caravans , they passed over another train of sledges pulled by snowmobiles .
what a you know ?
busy place , this glacier .
never see so much .
lets try and not freak them out too .
sure , okay .
they flew over the snowmobile train at a less threatening altitude , and in acknowledgement received a friendly wave .
only a few miles past them was a scene of canine pandemonium , with sleds and materials scattered across the surface of the ice .
there were gestures of the arm from them as well , though decidedly less friendly .
crazy , the pilot said , commenting on the situation as if the whole world of his observation was mad , all except for him .
crazy , trevor agreed , though with less conviction .
he shook his head and continued to mutter , crazy , crazy , crazy .
after the otter had passed overhead , it was only moments until the three riders on the alpines could see the wreckage of the once tidy caravan strewn across the ice .
it was clear to them what had happened , and that none of their fellow travelers were amused .
jake was .
funny place to hold a yard sale , he heckled geoff as he glided to a stop beside him .
how much for the dog ?
jake gestured towards an exceedingly unhappy husky that was trying to free itself from the tangled leads and was biting at geoffs hand as he tried to get it loose .
dont you begin any of your nonsense , or youll be in it also , geoff said menacingly towards jake , who ignored him and continued to chuckle at their plight .
bloody bastards better hope i never catch them .
well , youre going to have to move faster than this if youre ever going to .
i suppose wed better get you straightened out .
what happened ?
susan asked .
she had never met geoff , but she knew frodo of course , and her momentary meetings with sokolov had produced memorable results .
but for the moment she addressed herself to the new zealander .
things had proceeded so rapidly , culminating with her sudden estrangement from lt. richards , with whom she was barely communicating in a forced and frigid monotone , that she found herself disconnected from her own thoughts , unsure of how to engage these two very different people whom she felt that she had propelled towards whatever it was they were approaching .
only jake seemed to be in high spirits , as if the more screwed up things got , the happier he was .
that italian rat bag put a fright on the dogs .
now were all balls up .
and this dag , he said pointing at jake and not being able to contain a chuckle of his own despite trying very hard , thinks its a bloody laugh .
tell me how its not , jake replied , and the two of them began to argue the merit of finding humor in their situation .
susan was grateful for the distraction .
lieutenant richards went to help frodo right the sled , while sokolov collected the scattered flotsam that had been ejected in their fall .
she looked in wonder at each of these men , all of whom she had managed to become engaged with in various degrees of complexity .
geoff she did not know , but she had arranged for his becoming an accomplice in her schemes .
frodo would have been doing what he was doing anyway , but it was her actions that brought him up to the camp .
she couldnt take responsibility for thumper , but now frodo was a fugitive , and she felt she had a hand in that .
sokolov , despite being where he was for the moment was at least free , also for the moment , and she felt some degree of vindication in that .
she looked at lieutenant richards with an overwhelming sadness .
was jake right , that the forces of nature were working against her , that no matter how hard she tried to align them they would always be shifting on their poles , sometimes finding an inexorable attraction , at others creating an unbridgeable gap ?
and then there was jake .
jake , whom she had taken for granted as someone who was only there for her to use as she saw fit .
there was some truth in that for which she felt little remorse , his job was to do what he was told , up to a point .
but to be co opted into her plans or to be treated as an amusing , though inconsequential tool was not part of the job description .
even so , he not only bore with her , he encouraged her , and took her often abrasive handling of him and of their working together with an unfailingly good humor .
and it wasnt because he was some simpleton who only colored his world in favorable hues , he chose his demeanor deliberately , seemingly having examined the reality in which he found himself living , and deciding that taking life too seriously was giving it too much credit .
he made his world into what he wanted it to be .
as she watched the two guides going about their verbal joust , she realized that she was not so different from him she too tried to create her own reality as well .
the difference was that when she looked at the two versions side by side , there was no comparison .
his seemed enchanting in its simplicity and compelling in its appeal .
and hers now felt self centered and mean .
and now all of these people were caught up in events that she had set in motion , but which she could not control , nor could she predict their outcome .
so , frodo asked with exaggerated politeness , how is it we are again graced with your company ?
trying to help you , susan said .
then , gesturing towards sokolov , she added , and him .
i see , frodo said , without actually seeing .
what makes you think we needed your help ?
from what i can tell , what we needed most was to be left alone to disappear .
well , thats what we thought too , until we found out that thumper gave you away , told the captain you were headed to terra nova .
thumper !
frodo said .
all thumper knows is that hes lucky we didnt hand him over and ask for forgiveness ourselves .
of course , that was before the rest of the crew threw me under the bus with him .
thumper .
so , he got caught , huh ?
damn .
he knew the girls went there .
he knows we werent with them .
he must have told them that to put them on the wrong track .
what do you know about that ?
you mean he didnt know ?
he knew we could be almost anywhere but there .
interesting .
anyway , we managed to make the captain and the russians think he was lying , and that you guys were headed for south america by appearing to come this way with you .
is that a fact ?
frodo asked , turning to see where the sudden engine noise was coming from .
as all of the people of both the dog team and snowmobile expeditions looked skyward they saw the unmistakable outline of a navy c 130 as it flew overhead on approach into terra nova bay .
well done , then , he said , disbelieving sarcasm not disguised .
well done .
youve come through in the pinch once again .
i dont know how we can thank you enough .
susan stood with her eyes rolled back under closed lids , letting out a long and agonized groan .
she shook her head once before walking back to the alpine where she sat down , resolving not to speak or in any way try to influence anyone , on any point , ever again .
chapter 24 somewhere over terra nova bay what the hell ?
the captain asked himself .
dont know , skipper , the co pilot said .
she knew not to interject conjecture into the dialog when the captain asked rhetorical questions .
they were there , right where he thought they would be , except something didnt look right .
what was with the dogs ?
it should have been just a couple of alpines and some sleds .
he began to feel uneasy .
susan engens decoy , that he was happily following , would not have been so elaborate .
something was wrong .
it appears as if you were right , a voice was yelling above the engine noise and outside his headset .
he turned to look through his sunglasses at dr. atkinson , who came onto the flight deck with dr. fredricks after seeing what he had just seen himself .
damn , he thought .
no pretending that didnt happen .
he thought for a moment .
take over , he said to the co pilot .
he slipped off the earphones and gestured to the scientists to the cranny behind the engineers seat , whom he dismissed with a jerk of the thumb .
we need to talk , the captain yelled above the noise .
the scientists wore the earplugs that all passengers wore within the un soundproofed fuselage , and they had to strain to hear .
the captain did not , he was accustomed to filtering out the back round noise of the aircraft .
did the russians see what you saw ?
the captain asked them .
they did , dr. fredricks said , bobbing his head to accentuate the response , over compensating for the difficulty in hearing .
what did they do ?
nothing .
a lot of eyebrows going up and down , but thats about it .
alright , the captains said in as subdued a manner as he could while still being heard .
i dont know whats going on , but its possible the prisoner may not have been lying after all .
thats a problem .
so the russians will get their man back after all , dr. atkinson said , his stern look silently accusing the other two .
look , the captain said , gesturing with a pointed finger to accompany his hard tone .
is that what i want ?
no .
but at this point its up to us to make the best of a bad situation .
its unfortunate , but thats how it is .
i expect you two to deal with it , without screwing this up any worse than it already is .
got it ?
he looked from one to the other , waiting for some kind of affirmation that made them accountable to that warning .
he received cold nods , and gave one back as a receipt .
.
good .
well , since it looks like they are going to get what they want after all , we might as well get credit for having given it to them .
go tell our guests we will be landing shortly in terra nova and that we will arrange a reception for those guys on the ground .
the two scientists said nothing , but with grim demeanor left the flight deck to comply .
the captain took his seat , nodding to the co pilot that he again had control .
he always thought better with the yoke of an aircraft in his hands .
he watched terra nova base slide by beneath him without changing altitude .
he listened vaguely while his co pilot copied the current weather conditions on the ground , registering the information unconsciously , calculating his approach .
he could carry on for a few more minutes before beginning a wide arcing turn that would put them on a glide path into the station .
there was only one answer , the problem was that there were too many questions .
the russian and susan were clearly in the same place below , but appeared to have arrived there by separate means .
why the devil would she have done that ?
why make it so abundantly clear that this was a ruse , only to have it not be ?
didnt make sense .
unless , of course , none of these people had any more of an idea of what they were doing than he did .
now that worried him .
clear motives and conscious actions were things that could be understood , and countermeasures could be devised to deal with them .
but random events that happened without anything guiding them could lead anywhere , and it could not be predicted where that was .
there was just no planning for that .
the alpines led the way , followed by the by dog sleds .
there was absolutely no question of trying to go anywhere else and it was decided amongst all parties that the chips would just have to fall where they may .
terra nova it was .
for sokolov at least , there was the hope that the italians would not be co opted into going along with any unholy alliance that the americans and russians had agreed upon .
he made up his mind to appeal to them .
everyone agreed this seemed like the best option .
frodo was not looking forward to meeting the captain again , but he was assured by the others that since he could not be held accountable for thumpers actions he had not so much to fear .
with this logic having been accepted he regained some of his confidence and began to almost look forward to the confrontation .
neither jake nor geoff had risked much besides their jobs , geoff less so since the kiwis werent likely to find much for which to recriminate in his behavior .
and jake didnt grieve much , he had accomplished most of what he had come to do , with the exception of traversing the beardmore .
but he did bag a first ascent , and that would have to be enough .
the one most clearly miserable in the entourage was lt. richards .
his professional conduct was sure to be frowned heavily upon , the captain would make sure of that , but that meant little to him at the moment .
his failure to succeed with susan was a far more immediate and penetrating ailment .
their attraction was too strong to be denied by the laws of nature .
like the opposing poles of the magnet they were drawn inexorably together , but when faced with their similarities the opposing force just became too much .
susan , on the other hand , was an enigma for all to contemplate .
from the moment when the c 130 flew overhead she appeared to become emotionless .
not the stony faced lack of emotion that is often the face of turmoil within , she seemed to become perfectlynormal .
it was as if none of what had taken place over the last weeks had occurred , and that was the strangest of all .
everyone of them in the party was aware that she had some hand in their being where they were , and while none expected any display of contrition , her seeming disassociation with their common reality seemed to be unfathomable .
except to jake .
he remembered the first thing she had said to him , that she didnt need the distractions that getting involved in relationships and causes other than her own brought .
and he had come to know her too well .
if it seemed as if she had exorcized the last weeks from her existence , it was because she probably had .
her strength was in her ability to mold reality to match her will .
it had always worked with the future , who says it couldnt work with the past ?
or some such reckoning .
he figured she had settled on a plan and that this time nothing was going to deter her from accomplishing it .
it wasnt long before they saw the italian base in the distance , looking like a smaller version of mcmurdo , on a flat section of dry land and rock , away from the glaciers .
on the airstrip was a navy c 130 .
lets go in , jake said .
no one had any other comment , but jake said to susan , you drive .
he sat behind her on the alpine and positioned himself so he could whisper in her ear , albeit with somewhat more amplitude .
dont do it , he said .
dont do what ?
she shouted back .
whatever it is youre going to do .
youve done enough .
everything you wanted to stop is going to be stopped .
leave it .
and then what ?
she asked , and it became even clearer to him .
you might consider leaving this life of moral turpitude and just marry me .
you know its inevitable , eventually .
why not just do it now ?
are you freakin crazy ?
she yelled over her shoulder at him .
youre worse than nuts , you are completely insane !
so ?
whats that got to do with anything ?
ill think about it .
where the hell did this come from anyway ?
im serious .
seriously serious .
i know you think im a goofball who doesnt actually have a functioning brain , but the truth is youre so dammed wrapped up in your intellectual superiority youve forgotten how to be a little goofy .
you dont think ive goofed things up enough ?
not the same and you know it .
you know , the world can get along on its own without your having to rescue it for a while .
take a break .
well go climbing somewhere .
or lay on a beach .
oh my god , you are serious .
didnt i already tell you that ?
he said in her ear from the rear seat of the alpine .
well , its a little hard to believe , you know .
it is you were talking about here .
though she said this through her face covering and over the noise of the engine , jake could tell that she was taking him seriously , in a fashion , and that her speaking to him like she did showed it .
the c 130 had come to a rest in the parking spot next to the italian otter from which trevor and the pilot emerged .
the leadership of the base were there to greet the americans who had called to inform them of their arrival , but not of the reason why .
trevor recognized the senior scientists and joined them , his confusing day getting only more so .
when gregore emerged from the airplane with a russian he did not recognize , he actually began to get worried .
he still didnt know what events had led to his expulsion from vostok , but he suddenly got the sense he was about to find out .
he queried dr. atkinson for enlightenment .
politics .
damned politics inserting itself into our field season .
the whole year is ruined .
im sorry , trevor said .
but could you be a little more specific ?
one doesnt learn much about what is going on in the rest of the world at vostok .
dr. atkinson , still overwhelmed by the unfolding events , answered in bullet points , and in a clipped and harried voice .
susan engen , depending on whom you ask , has either kidnapped or arranged the defection of a soviet physicist , who survived an accident with a crevasse .
the green organization , whom hither to this time had managed themselves quite reasonably , has gone completely mad and has engaged upon a campaign of destruction across the continent .
the captain , whose role was supposed to be that of logistics coordinator , seems to be reveling in the chaos , as it appears to be providing him with an opportunity to fuel a potential conflagration .
is there anything else you wish to know ?
the doctor nearly shouted at trevor bitterly .
he glared down his haughty nose at the young scientist for a long moment before his expression became quizzical .
wait just a minute , what are you doing here ?
i dont have any idea , trevor said .
a bunch of russians turned up at vostok accusing me of doing something to dr. sokolov and the next thing i know , im in a plane coming here .
you know him ?
dr. atkinson asked .
of course you know him .
what in hades has gone on up there .
did you have something to do with this ?
of course not , trevor said , stealing a glance in the direction of the russians .
at least i dont think so .
all i know is that things were hot for him in russian .
that was why he was sent here .
other than that , i dont know anything .
humph , the senior scientist commented , seemingly reserving the right to remain skeptical .
either way , it appears as if we are going to find out .
they both looked toward the ice road that lead to the edge of the taxiway where the trains of dogs and alpines came to rest .
the two groups stood facing each other , each made up of individuals of vastly different interests , motives , and objectives .
all seemed to be waiting for someone else to say something before committing themselves .
susan held up a mitten and glanced up and down the line of people in her party , a gestured that asked them to wait for her before saying anything .
it also said to each of them , though she had avoided any expression of it before , though they all had their own situations to unravel , she was a common thread that ran through each of their various knots .
they looked back at her and waited , except for lt. richards , who only stared at the horizon .
captain , she said , nodding at the navy officer .
gentlemen , she said to the others .
i am here to tell you that i , and only i , am responsible for any actions that might be construed as inappropriate on the part of anyone in this group , excepting the russian who requires no excuses .
the guide she gestured at jake , who bowed was only following my orders .
the lieutenant she gestured at lt. richards and smiled sadly , was following yours .
the kiwis she pointed at geoff , who looked away are only here doing their normal work but were duped into acting on my behalf .
frodo has been in the right all along , and had no part in whatever thumper did , as im sure you all know by now .
what we want to know is why you are here , and what you intend to do ?
there was an awkward pause .
whether or not your russian needs excuses is not your call to make , the captain said , finding himself backed into a corner he didnt want to be in .
richards is the air forces problem , not mine , so i dont care .
youre these guys problem he gestured towards the other scientists , thank god , so im done with you .
that bonehead he pointed towards frodo is the united nations problem , since i dont get to control what they do here .
but the russian , now hes a problem .
so what are we going to do about that ?
the russians , who had remained silent until then trying to assess their options , concluded that they needed to keep up the pretense of wanting to rescue their companion .
the interpreter expressed his pleasure in seeing sokolov well , a gesture the veracity of was not wasted on anyone .
he wants to come to america , and were going to take him , susan said firmly .
sorry .
wait , sokolov said , looking at both the russians and the captain .
i have had a change of heart .
i no longer wish to go to america .
the different parties all looked at each other not knowing what to say .
each wanted out of this predicament , but didnt know how .
i think maybe i go to new zealand , sokolov said , looking at the dogs and at geoff .
maybe live quietly in the country .
susan turned around to address him privately .
are you sure ?
i know we can make this happen .
are you afraid of what might happen to you there ?
sokolov was quick to settle that point .
i am not afraid , not anymore .
in fact , i have come to lose much more than just my fears over the last days .
i have lost my rage , which i so carefully nurtured until now .
rage is a hard emotion to maintain with such companions as these he gestured towards the dogs , and such freedom as this he waved towards the horizon .
it is gone , and i can not manufacture more .
sokolov 's words penetrated deeply into her heart .
manufactured rage , was that what she had ?
was that the fuel that drove her , something artificial that she produced as an expedient to propel her forward ?
she suddenly felt exposed , as if discovered in a fraud , perpetrated upon her by no one other than herself .
jake 's friendly mocking of her ambitions leapt into her mind in the realization that he understood her better than she did herself .
she was also surprised in that instant to discover that he liked her in spite of this knowledge , something that she , if she had been in his position , might have been less inclined to do .
it was not a very likeable trait , self conceit and aggrandizement .
and in using a cause , however worthy , as a platform to promote her own positionit was a wonder that he tolerated her at all .
and yet , he not only put up with her , he pursued her .
it was as if he found her deepest flaw to be her most endearing feature .
she knew he was crazy , but this was a brand of crazy that had much to recommend it .
susan continued to look at sokolov , her thoughts divided .
you 're willing to give up your career for a quiet life ? ''
she asked him , though it may have seemed that she was asking herself the same question .
career ? ''
he asked .
my career has been to do as i am told .
now i wish to do nothing but what i feel i should .
what may come later is not something i care to think of right now . ''
okay , '' she said looking at the captain .
he wants to go to new zealand .
do you have a problem with that ? ''
i have no objections , if you guys dont , the captain said hurriedly to the russians , clearly hoping to capitalize on an unexpected though viable escape to his dilemma .
the translator spoke it over with gregore , who nodded once , and it was decided .
the italians , once they understood , volunteered the otter that brought trevor from vostok to take sokolov to new zealand .
lets go with him , jake whispered to susan .
connie and walt can get all your stuff back to ohio .
theres nothing you can do in mcmurdo , youre done there in any case .
why dont we just go ?
susan looked at him as if she were seeing him for the first time , studying him earnestly to see if she could in that instant confirm that her sudden awareness of his perception of her was real or imagined on her part .
she allowed a moment for the calculating part of her thoughts to give way to something less cold .
are you sure about this ?
you know how i am , do you really think you can continue to like me like i am ? ''
he sighed deeply with a gesture of exasperation .
have i not done anything except prove that all along ?
if you ca n't believe that now , then you ca n't ever believe anything . ''
she paused only for her last resistance to falter .
okay .
lets do it .
onlyjust give me a minute .
she went to where lt. richards was standing alone , awkwardly waiting for this parley to come to an end .
it was clear that his time with susan was over and , while his disappointment was evident , he didnt show his pain as an expression of anger or disgust .
he was merely proud and quiet .
hey , she said to him , taking him by the arm and leading him away .
hello , he said stiffly , but not unkindly , like he appreciated that she had suffered too .
i just wanted to tell you how sorry i am , she said .
sorry ?
please be anything but sorry .
i cant be .
i can be anything but sorry .
i just meant i know , he said .
you behaved honorably and have no cause for regret , at least i hope not .
maybe it was too far to come , too wide a gulf to cross .
i cant say .
honorably ?
she said , snickering .
thats the word you come up with to describe how ive acted .
honorably ?
honestly , i dont know if i understand you any better now than i did before , but i like you better .
i like you a whole lot better .
she reached up , put a hand on the back of his neck , kissed him once , and walked away .
okay , she said to jake .
lets go .
you hussy , he said .
what makes you think i still want to go after that ?
just get your butt on the plane and dont talk back to me .
oh god , he said shaking his head and frowning .
im doomed .
the end the mistri virus by larry e. huddleston the mistri virus copyright 2009 by larry e. huddleston smashwords edition smashwords license statement this ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only .
this ebook may not be re sold or given away to other people .
if you would like to share this book with another person , please purchase an additional copy for each reader .
if youre reading this book and did not purchase it , or it was not purchased for your use only , then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy .
thank you for respecting the hard work of this author published by midnight express books at smashwords midnight express books pobox 69 berryville ar 72616 midnight express books publishes books by incarcerated authors .
this book has not been edited by midnight express books and is the unchanged words of this author .
chapter 1 tommy lasade had been three years old when his father , mark , was sent away to kuwait to free that country from the grasp of saddam hussain , the maniacal dictator of iraq .
tommy had just turned five when his father was sent home minus two legs , one at the hip , the other at mid thigh , one arm at the shoulder , his voice and his hearing .
the loss of his voice was due to severed vocal cords and missing larynx his hearing because of destroyed ear drums caused by the same mortar that had taken his legs and arm .
his daddy was a very unhappy man .
he cried constantly , the only evidence was the constant flowing tears , and as far as tommy knew , he never slept and couldnt talk to anyone .
tommy didnt understand that that was the reason his father cried .
there was a world of words he wanted to say to his only son , but couldnt .
he couldnt hear his wifes or sons sweet voice , even though he could see their lips moving and knew they were talking to him .
he couldnt even hear his own breathing or heartbeat to know he was still alive .
he suffered in a world of absolute silence .
tommy had been six years old when his mom , sarah , came home lugging an old second hand computer and monitor .
a neighbor had come over to set it up and get it going for them .
he hung around for several months to teach tommy and his dad how to use it .
tommy was a natural his dad tried hard but could never fully grasp the concept .
as tommys reading and writing skills improved at school , so did his abilities on the computer .
his dad never quite got the hang of it .
but , at least , now they could communicate to a degree .
within five years , tommy had left his father far behind in computer skills .
he was able to make mental connections on the programs that simplified them and was soon writing his own programs that made his and his dads communication exceptionally easier .
at ten years old , he wrote a computer game that sent the world into a panic .
he had written the code so that the kid that entered the correct sequence of characters would set off the panic and get all the blame .
tommy had thought it hilarious .
his dad didnt , but didnt say much in condemnation either .
he typed only three words to tommy serves them right !
two months later , tommys dad was dead .
it was ruled suicide .
he had stabbed himself in the heart with a butcher knife .
he had typed only three words on the newest computer serves me right !
tommy didnt understand these words at the time , but two months later his mom told him he was going to have a baby brother or sister before christmas , a mere four months away .
tommy wasnt a dummy .
he knew where babies came from and how they were made .
he was almost twelve .
his dad had told him several times that his mom was unhappy with him because he couldnt make her any more babies .
so , tommy had put two and two together and had come up with four .
his mom had gotten someone besides his father to make her a baby .
his father found out , killed himself and freed his wife from a very heavy burden .
him .
tommy hated his mom after that .
he wasnt mean he just didnt like her anymore .
he hated his step dad worse and vowed hed never speak to them again .
he was true to his word .
that was the one thing his dad had sworn him to .
that he would never break his word to himself or to anyone he gave it to .
nor , would he ever betray the trust of a friend or enemy .
the friend he would protect with his life .
the enemy he would eliminate by any means available .
when tommy had been six years old his dad had insisted his mom enroll him in a martial arts program under master chang , a tibetan monk .
he insisted it would help tommy bring his mind and body together as one .
tommy guessed it worked .
he was still in training and his mind and body were still together as one .
but , he didnt think that was exactly what his father had meant .
when he entered high school , tommy was a black belt in several disciplines of martial arts .
he didnt have a particular discipline , though .
he liked the approach of the great bruce lee , who taught that having no style was in itself a style .
but he also liked the moves of steven segal in his movies , so attempted to bring the two together as one .
it worked for him and had led him to win several competitions around the state .
he had even qualified for the u.s. olympic team and had won the gold at barcelona .
upon graduation from high school , he had gone to college for two years and then joined the u.s. army to follow in his fathers footsteps and make him proud of his only son .
he thrived on the disciplined , regimented lifestyle of the military .
following basic training and a.i.t .
advanced individual training tommy was sent to fort benning , georgia for airborne training , jump school , as it was called .
it was a breeze tommy loved to run !
and he had felt totally alive as he stood in the door and looked out into the wild blue yonder from the c 141 , held a tight body position and launched himself at the stick sergeants command .
the long float down was what tommy thought heaven would be like .
the crash and roll at the end was as if his life had come to an end he couldnt wait to go up and jump again !
after jump school tommy was approached by a ranger and asked if he was truly ready for a challenge .
tommy accepted and was transferred across the base for eight weeks of undiluted hell .
he thrived and graduated at the top of his class .
he was then approached by an airborne ranger , wearing a green beret , and asked if he was interested in being all he could be .
he volunteered and was sent to ft. bragg , north carolina for training that separated the weak from the strong , of the mighty .
again he thrived and graduated at the top of his class .
from there he was sent to ft. campbell , kentucky for sniper training .
there was no stopping tommy lesade .
he was bound for glory and prayed for war .
he was a soldier through and through .
patriotic to the core and was willing to die for his country , no questions asked .
he graduated west point second in his class and was now an officer in the united states army , the most advanced and powerful war machine in the history of the world .
tommy lesade was a human thor and three times as tough .
some higher up had his eye on tommy lesade and , before he knew it , his four year enlistment was up .
he was approached by a one star general and asked what his plans for the future were .
my country , sir !
tommy had replied , coming to attention .
relax , lieutenant , general stall had smiled .
if you reenlist i will support you for captain .
you are a credit to the uniform , sir !
tommy reenlisted for four more years and was sent to ft. leavenworth , kansas to the war college .
he graduated two years later as a captain .
then , on september 11 , 2001 , tommy lesades lifelong wish was delivered to him , and the rest of the united states , in new york city .
america had cause for war and the american president , george w. bush , jr. , didnt hesitate for a second .
he ordered the massive invasion of afghanistan , after tracing the terrorists back to there .
the american forces rolled across that country as if there was no opposing force in the way .
it had been so easy , the american president had ordered his military to kick the shit out of iraq , since they were so close anyway .
besides , it would save them a trip in the long run .
so , that was where captain tommy lesade found himself on the morning of april 16 , 2002 .
he was belly deep in sand , sweating like a pig and hotter than hells own inferno .
he was madder than the devil himself and indignant as a drunken lord .
he had the s.o.b .
dead under his cross hairs less than eight hundred yards away and no one would give him the okay to blow the bastard out of the saddle .
what the hell kind of war is this , he thought .
where a soldier cant kill the number one enemy !
hot shot one , to silver eagle three , tommy whispered into the microphone at his lips .
hot shot one , silver eagle three , copy five by , a voice replied in his ears .
silver eagle three , hot shot one has big cahuna dead to rights at eight hundred yards and twelve oclock .
request authorization to deep six primary .
over , tommy stated urgently .
hold , hot shot one .
do not deep six primary !
repeat !
do not deep six primary !
copy ?
negative silver eagle three !
tommy whispered angrily .
hot shot has primary at eight hundred , high noon .
i can take him clean !
negative , hot shot one !
the voice repeated seriously .
golden eagle one says no deep six .
repeat , golden eagle one says no deep six of big cohuna !
copy ?
roger , silver eagle three , tommy replied after several long seconds of disappointed silence .
no deep six .
out !
tommy pounded the sand with his fist in frustration .
he could not believe the higher ups were going to let saddam slip through their fingers .
he could not believe it !
it was madness !
tommy watched through his scope as the ragged s.o.b .
stomped around with his chest stuck out giving orders to soldiers who nearly fainted from fright when he spoke directly to them .
they would fall to their knees before him , lean over and kiss his dirty feet as if he were god almighty .
tommy whispered to himself , he may very well be to these people .
who knows what they think or believe ?
he sure as hell didnt !
he continued to watch through his scope as they all mounted up into their convoy of converted pickup trucks and drove off over the sand dunes .
he realized his chance to get a little payback for over two thousand americans was quickly disappearing over a hill .
damn , he screamed to himself , slammed his fist into the sand once again , then slowly began to slide backwards down the back of the sand dune he had been lying on .
tommy was mad and silent for three days as he watched the town below .
there wasnt much activity , just an occasional fast moving pickup and a few slow moving camels and any number of goats and herdsmen .
none of them came close to him so he lay still and silent .
waiting .
at three oclock in the morning he was awakened by frantic screaming in his ears , hot shot one !
hot shot one !
silver eagle three , over !
hot shot one , silver eagle three , copy five by , over !
tommy replied quickly , sensing the urgency in the voice , trying to position his mic better .
hot shot one , silver eagle three is under attack !
can you provide cover ?
over !
the frantic voice screamed .
roger , silver eagle three .
five mikes , over .
five mikes , over , the voice replied slightly relieved .
tommy stood and ran down the back of the sand dune .
it was over a mile through loose , shifting sand , to the fire base .
he would make it .
he had too .
his friends were counting on him .
he pushed himself harder than ever before .
he began hearing sporadic gunfire as he topped a dune and ran full bore down the other side , then up the next dune .
at the top of the dune , he belly flopped to his stomach , flipped the dust caps up on his infrared scope and began to scan the fire base below .
off in the distance he saw muzzle flashes and began to mark their position by the hours on a clock .
his position to the fire base was six oclock .
after scanning from left to right , then back slowly , he had most of the enemy positions located and marked on his mental clock .
he lined up on ten oclock and waited .
a muzzle flashed .
he placed the cross hairs on it .
it flashed again .
he squeezed the trigger gently and waited .
no more muzzle flashes from ten oclock .
he slowly worked his way across the upper face of his mental clock .
he squeezed the trigger on his sniper rifle over twenty two times .
he had no idea how many hits and kills he had , but there were no more muzzle flashes in or around the fire base .
he noticed as he started working his way down the dune to the fire base that the dawn was quickly approaching .
it would be sun up soon , and then he could count his dead and wounded enemies .
hed know immediately about the friendlies .
he dreaded that part of war .
it would be easier if only the enemy died .
but even the enemy had friends who would mourn them .
but war didnt work that way , she was not a discriminating mistress .
she was a whore , plain and simple .
of the thirty or so men assigned to the fire base only about half were up and moving around as tommy entered the fire base perimeter .
several , he saw , were walking wounded .
he knew this was not good news .
he had a lot of friends here .
people he had known for years , people he had served with , trained with , played with and now , fought with both off and on the field of battle .
but , even if he didnt like them personally , he treated them with respect and expected and received respect in return .
he didnt dislike any of them enough to want them injured or dead .
they were his people .
as he entered the medical tent , the news got worse .
his commanding officer was being zipped into a body bag .
tommy was ranking officer on the base and was now in command .
okay , people , what do we have ?
he asked a medic standing over a soldier with a sucking chest wound .
eight kias .
five wia and three walking wounded , sir , the medic replied , not once looking up .
tommy knew he meant killed in action , wounded in action and walking wounded .
bottom line , they could be in very serious trouble if the iraqis renewed their attack .
im ranking office here , tommy said .
im assuming temporary command .
have everyone available meet me at the command tent .
ill pick up who i see as i go that way .
tell them to stay low .
there may still be shooters out there , tommy said .
roger , sir , the medical sergeant said as tommy turned and left .
sergeant king , he said addressing the communications sergeant as he entered the command tent .
sir ?
king answered coming out the door to tommy .
get us some medevacs in here and ask for blackhawks overhead .
then meet me in command .
sir , medevacs are on the way .
ill request blackhawks for overhead , he said , as he returned to the communications tent on the double .
five minutes later , as tommy sat in the command tent , he heard the approach of helicopters .
he stood and walked out to meet them .
he had taken three minutes to post all his available men on the perimeter guard .
he looked around as he exited the tent and was relieved to see them all alert and ready for action , should it come upon them .
only the medics were absent from the perimeter they had their own duties to perform and they crept around tending the wounded where they lay .
no shots had been fired in over twenty minutes .
as far as tommy could remember , he had fired the last one .
he figured that if he hadnt killed them all , the ones that had gotten away got the message and were still running for the distant dunes .
at least he hoped they were .
he didnt believe they could withstand another full scale attack .
there was no way .
sergeant king ?
sir , king replied instantly .
see about getting some more men , or hooking up with another outfit somewhere close .
roger that , sir , sergeant king responded seriously , then turned back to his communications tent and radio .
tommy watched as the blackhawks began to circle in the distance .
he thought they may be looking over the dead from his shoot out earlier .
at his twelve oclock position he saw the helicopters began to slow and drop lower to the ground , as if looking closer at something .
he couldnt imagine what it could be a dead body was a dead body .
the choppers nose dropped slightly , then the big mean looking machine settled to the ground and the rotors began to slow to a stop a hundred yards from him .
tommy still squinted his eyes against the blowing sand .
the pilot exited the machine and came toward him .
he walked out to meet the man half way .
major andrew ryan , the man introduced himself as he returned tommys salute and then offered his hand .
captain tommy lesade , tommy replied taking the mans hand firmly .
glad youre here , major .
looks like a heavy hit , captain , ryan commented , looking around the fire base .
yes sir , tommy replied .
nearly fifty percent casualty .
colonel markham didnt make it .
mark markham ?
ryan asked , a sadness darkening his eyes .
yes , sir .
damn !
i liked the colonel !
he was a good man .
yes sir .
captain , whos your sniper ?
ryan asked , following several seconds of silent mourning for their fallen comrade .
thatd be me , sir , tommy replied .
good shooting , ryan replied , looking around , then back at tommy .
in the dark , i presume ?
yes sir .
not bad at all , ryan smiled .
write up your after action report and ill sign it .
i counted eighteen bodies .
fifteen head shots , the rest died of massive throat trauma .
they bled out , captain .
that makes your shooting exceptional .
no thanks , major , tommy replied seriously .
i appreciate the offer , but ill leave the decorations to the real heroes , sir .
as you wish , captain , ryan replied smiling .
ill write it up .
youll be hearing from me .
i like your style , sir .
ryan offered his hand and when tommy shook it , he turned back to his machine and within minutes was back in the sky patrolling around the fire base .
ryans parting words still rang in tommys ears as he watched the helicopter in the distance .
tommy looked around at the devastation of his fire base .
bullet holes stitched along most of the tents .
three of his four humvees sat on at least two flat tires .
their only drinking water was soaking into the desert sand and he was willing to bet their ammo supply was severely depleted .
oh , well , he thought .
it could have been worse , he decided , as he returned to the command tent to await further bad news .
he sat in the dimness of the command tent trying to decide what to do .
all of his killed and wounded had been flown out .
he hadnt received or even been promised replacements and there were no close support units anywhere in the area .
he was however , promised periodic flyovers by the blackhawks .
he guessed that was better than nothing .
he stood and walked outside .
he may as well beef up his perimeter , if at all possible .
as he stepped outside into the glaring desert sun , he saw a lone blackhawk helicopter several miles away taking evasive action .
hot on its tail was a r.p.g. , rocket propelled grenade .
it didnt appear that the blackhawk was going to make its escape .
as the thought flashed through his mind , the r.p.g .
connected with the tail rotor .
it exploded in a brilliant flash .
the chopper tilted severely , nose up , then lay over on its side and began to auto rotate to the ground .
tommy jumped back inside the tent , grabbed his sniper rifle and began to run toward the downed chopper .
sergeant king , he yelled as he passed the communications tent .
sir ?
king yelled back .
ill be back !
downed chopper a few clicks to the west .
put it on the wire , tommy yelled as he continued to run to the perimeter .
yes , sir !
king yelled after him .
tommy had been running for fifteen or twenty minutes up and down sand dunes .
he knew he had covered at least three or four miles .
still , he saw no sign of the downed chopper .
he continued to run , knowing that if the pilots had survived the crash they wouldnt survive the arrival of the iraqis .
he reached the top of the next dune and fell to his stomach .
he was breathing hard but steady running in the loose sand was an exhausting ordeal .
in the valley below , the chopper lay on its side .
the iraqis had it surrounded .
there were eight he could see .
he figured there may be one or two more inside the chopper rummaging around .
the pilot and co pilot were kneeling in the sand .
the iraqis had their aks pointed at the backs of their heads .
this is going to be dicey , tommy thought as he quickly figured a firing solution .
he decided he would take the two pointing their aks at the americans heads first .
then , he would take the one in front of them asking the questions .
he would have to play it by ear from there .
he lined the cross hairs up on his first targets forehead and gently squeezed the trigger .
the mans head exploded in a funnel of red mist .
he quickly shifted his aim and the second was slammed back as the first was beginning to fall .
the third was knocked forward between the kneeling americans and his blood , bone and brain matter splattered across the nose of the chopper to overlay the first two .
before the rest of the iraqis could realize what was happening , two more headed to meet allah face to face .
that left three to five .
the pilot and co pilot were face in the sand trying to hide behind the dead bodies .
they didnt provide much cover , though .
geysers of sand sprayed into the air as bullets slammed around them , the iraqis intent on taking their prisoners with them to paradise .
tommy was intent on preventing them from doing just that .
tommy fired twice more and two more iraqis left for the promised land , leaving one more .
tommy knew he was hiding behind the nose cone of the chopper .
at ground level , the mans right foot was visible from about the ankle forward .
tommy drew a bead on it and as the rag stuck his ak around the nose of the chopper and pulled the trigger , tommy squeezed his at about the same time .
the iraqis foot vanished in a spray of red across the sand .
he screamed and fell forward , reaching for his maimed foot .
tommy sent him to allah on the express train to join his brothers .
eight iraqis lay around the chopper .
tommy waited .
there was only one way out of the chopper through the opened door on the top .
still , tommy waited .
after about five minutes the stock of an ak stuck up through the door .
it was followed by two skinny brown arms reaching for the sky .
tommy watched through his scope and as the head poked up through the door , he squeezed the trigger .
a spray of red mist stained the top of the chopper and the body slammed back into the frame and then fell out of sight .
after five more minutes of seeing no movement or hearing any unusual sounds from the chopper , tommy began to slowly slide down the dune .
close to the bottom he stood up , never taking his eye from the scoped view of the door of the chopper .
he stood and walked slowly toward the two prone men .
he was within ten steps of the chopper and five of the prone men when another man sprang from the door of the chopper like a jack in the box and began spraying the area with gunfire .
tommy fired twice , hitting the man in the chest with both shots .
he slammed back into the door frame and dropped out of sight .
tommy continued to scope the chopper door , but there were no more unusual sounds or movements .
after another five minutes he began to relax .
he stepped forward and his foot came into contact with something on the ground .
he glanced down .
it was the third kill .
he now stood between the two americans .
he looked down at them .
they stared back up at him in awe .
he recognized major ryan .
they said not a word as tommy returned his eye to the scope and once again started forward , slowly , one step at a time .
he eased around the nose of the chopper and looked inside through the windshield .
there was no movement at all inside .
he saw two bundles of what appeared to be rags , but he knew it was the two dead soldiers .
clear !
tommy yelled , lowering his weapon .
he turned and rapidly stepped back to the two pilots .
when he reached them they were setting up , checking themselves over for wounds .
well , captain .
i now owe you my life .
ill never forget , ever !
ryan promised looking him in the eye .
nor i , the co pilot stated as he stood up and offered tommy his hand .
captain wendell cartwright .
my pleasure captain , tommy replied .
wendell , this is captain lesade .
he is a real hero .
he has saved many lives today and has also taken a fair number .
i count around twenty five in less than three hours .
whatever you do , dont make him mad at you , ryan smiled .
i wish we had a thousand like him .
not a bad day in my book , since one of the saved lives was mine !
cartwright smiled .
in the distance , four blackhawk helicopters were approaching from the east as the officers stood talking .
all four choppers turned and landed at the four corners of the downed bird .
one co pilot stepped out and came over to them .
mornin gentlemen , he smiled .
need a lift ?
he said in a west texas drawl .
wouldnt hurt , ryan replied smiling .
beats walking , he added , as they walked to the waiting chopper .
when they were airborne , the chopper spun around on its nose and fired two missiles into the dead bird .
it exploded in a massive fireball and black smoke .
the chopper then spun on its axis , and nose down , began to gain altitude and speed as it headed back toward the fire base .
the other choppers took great pleasure in destroying the pickups the iraqis had arrived in .
the chopper dropped tommy off at his fire base .
after handshakes all around and promises to stay in touch , major ryan and captain cartwright climbed back aboard the chopper and were flown back to their base for another blackhawk .
tommy watched the helicopter until it was out of sight in the east , then turned his attentions back to his fire base .
first off , he noticed that the flats on the humvees had been fixed and that most of their gear had been packed up .
it looked as if they were ready to travel and it wasnt even noon yet .
he was impressed .
sir , sergeant king said , saluting , as tommy approached .
weve been ordered back to headquarters asap .
sounds great .
when will we be ready to leave here ?
as soon as you are , sir , king replied .
your gears in the hummer , he added .
lets go , then , tommy said walking to one of the hummers and climbing in .
he sat in the passenger seat with the butt of his sniper rifle resting on the toe of his boot and holding it upright between his knees .
it had been a long morning and he was exhausted from the constant adrenaline rush that was now in the process of leaving his system .
five minutes later , he was asleep in his seat .
his body rocked gently back and forth and his head bounced on his chest .
after reaching the headquarters compound , tommy spent nearly two hours filling out after action reports , down playing his part in the rescue of his company .
however , despite his modesty , the story of captain tommy lesade was already racing throughout the battalion like a tidal wave .
he tried to keep a low profile .
he didnt want or need attention .
he had just done his job to the best of his ability , nothing more , nothing less .
any soldier would have done the same thing given the opportunity or would have died trying .
tommy was convinced of that , so didnt feel that he had done anything special .
however , general adrian hawk thought otherwise and ordered him to report to his office at 1500 hours that afternoon .
tommy didnt know it , but he had been selected for a top secret mission .
he was exactly what general hawk and a few cia operatives had been looking for .
after the last form was filled out and placed in the out basket on his desk , tommy glanced at his watch and saw that he had an hour to clean himself up and report to general hawks office .
it would be close , but he would make it .
if nothing else , tommy was punctual !
tommy showered , shaved , found clean desert camouflage bdus and had three minutes to spare as he approached the generals orderly .
captain lesade to see the general , tommy said as he approached .
its an honor , sir , the orderly said , jumping to his feet and attention as he saluted a living hero .
tommy returned the salute and stood waiting on the orderly .
he stood frozen in idol worship , a look of longing admiration on his face .
the general , lieutenant , tommy prompted .
sorry , sir , the lieutenant said , dropping his salute and stepping to the generals door , then knocked and waited .
come !
the general roared from behind the door .
the orderly opened the door and stood to the side .
general , captain lesade reporting .
captain lesade , may i offer you coffee ?
hawk asked , rising and offering his hand across the desk rather than saluting .
that would be perfect , sir , tommy replied dropping his salute and taking the generals hand .
coffee times two , lieutenant .
that will be all , hawk said , dismissing the lieutenant and turning his attention back to tommy .
have a seat , captain .
we have some things to discuss .
tommy studied the general and decided he in no way looked like his name would imply .
he was far from being a hawk in any sense of the word .
tommy thought turkey would be more appropriate .
in fact general hawk greatly resembled a turkey in every sense of the word he was red faced with wattles under his chin .
he was cocky and strutting as if preening his plumage constantly .
his belly and chest led his rear end by a good three feet , as if his tail feathers were on public display and he was inordinately proud of them , even though they didnt exist , except perhaps in his mind .
yes , sir , tommy replied , taking a seat across from hawk .
captain , i have two after action reports here , filed by major ryan .
very impressive , captain .
very impressive , indeed .
care to read them ?
he asked , holding the aars up for tommy to see .
tommy took the reports and read them as the orderly entered with two cups of steaming black coffee , then left .
when tommy finished reading he laid the reports back on the edge of the desk and looked into the generals red rheumy eyes .
that pretty much what happened , captain ?
hawk asked , never blinking .
the language is a little rosy , but , yes , sir , thats pretty much what happened .
its fairly accurate .
however , i cant say im responsible for all the head shots .
it was dark , sir .
i fired twenty two rounds .
i doubt i made head shots eighteen of those twenty two .
any other explanation ?
no , sir , tommy replied thoughtfully .
however , other men at the fire base were firing as well .
naw , the general shook his head slowly .
they were under fire .
shooting sporadically .
scared shitless , probably on full automatic .
if they hit a head it was pure accident .
they probably hit nothing but the side of a sand dune .
so , the only logical explanation is that they are all yours , he reasoned looking down at the reports .
now , at the chopper , hawk continued .
major ryan and captain cartwright were eye witnesses .
there is no dispute there .
ten ragheads , right ?
laid in the sand ?
yes , sir .
thats correct .
very well .
both major ryan and captain cartwright have recommended you for the congressional medal of honor for your actions .
i dont know if that will fly , captain , since youre not dead or wounded , but i will back it as well .
what you did this morning was far and beyond the call of duty .
its an honor to be in your presence , sir .
now , at your base camp , major ryan and captain cartwright are recommending the silver star and the distinguished service cross .
i will also support these through congress and the president .
comments ?
the general finished .
sir , i didnt come here to be a hero , tommy said seriously .
nor did i come here for medals and awards .
i came here for over two thousand innocent americans at the world trade center who cry out for justice .
im here to see that they get that justice , or to die to secure it for them , sir !
tommy continued , his eyes never once leaving the generals .
well said , captain lesade , the general said proudly standing and saluting tommy .
that is what makes a hero , captain !
you make me proud to be an american and a soldier , by god !
if it were in my power , id promote you to the rank of full colonel .
you are a man of honor , humility , dedication and principle !
if i knew it wouldnt make you mad , colonel , id kiss you full on the mouth !
by god !
ill pass on the kiss , general , tommy smiled , then stood and returned the generals salute .
he dropped it when the general dropped his and took the generals hand when it was once again offered across the desk .
it was surprisingly strong for a man of his appearance .
tommy was impressed .
youll hear from me shortly , colonel .
good luck , son !
thank you general , tommy said , then did an about face and stepped to the door .
one other thing , sir , if i may ?
tommy said , turning from the door to face hawk .
of course colonel .
sir , i didnt do anything any other soldier wouldnt have done in the same circumstances .
that may be , colonel .
but , lets pray we never have to find out .
yes , sir .
thank you , sir .
good day , sir .
tommy said , then pulled the door open and stepped through , closing it behind him .
tommy couldnt believe they were making such a big deal out of what he had done .
as far as he was concerned it was all in the line of duty .
well , he thought , maybe the recommendations wont be approved .
that would suit him just fine .
all he wanted was to be a good soldier .
not a hero .
being a hero was too much trouble .
captain , sir ?
the orderly said as tommy closed the door behind him .
yes , lieutenant ?
may i have your autograph , sir ?
ive never known a real hero before , sir .
itd be for my kids , sir !
sure , tommy smiled .
but , between me and you , you still dont know a hero .
the lieutenant smiled as tommy wrote his name across a slip of white paper .
his penmanship was remarkably clear and legible .
dont you tell anyone about this , lieutenant , tommy laughed as he slid the signature across the desk to the lieutenant .
not a soul , sir !
tommy smiled and left the office .
by six oclock that evening everyone at the compound had seen the slip of paper bearing tommy lesades signature .
tommy couldnt wait to get back out into the dunes .
this was entirely too much trouble !
too complicated !
he needed seclusion just to be alone for a while with the men and women he knew and trusted .
he didnt know it , but he was about to get his wish .
however , not in the way he hoped or expected .
chapter 2 after tommy had left hawks office , the general opened his top desk drawer and turned off the tape recorder .
he had recorded the entire conversation .
the recorder had been switched on at exactly three oclock .
hawk knew that captain lesade was very punctual .
as a matter of fact he knew everything there was to know about captain tommy lesade .
the young captain had been on his radar screen for several years now .
he had first come to the generals attention when he graduated at the top of his class at ft. bragg .
he was an outstanding athlete , exceptionally proficient in self defense , exceptionally intelligent , loyal beyond question and as deadly as a black mamba .
he was just the man hawk had been looking for .
lieutenant !
hawk screamed in a deep voice of command .
sir , the lieutenant answered opening the door and coming to attention .
get me the personnel file on captain lesade .
im making a note that he should never be promoted to full colonel without presidential approval .
yes , sir , the lieutenant turned and left .
he was back inside three minutes with the file , then went to type up the requested orders .
hawk began to read the file carefully .
two hours later he began to smile .
captain lesade was too good to be true .
he would be willing to bet his retirement that there were no more than ten people in the whole u.s. army with the qualifications of his very own captain lesade .
the man was virtually trained from birth for the mission he had in mind .
there was no way this particular mission could fail , his retirement depended on it !
plus , captain tommy lesade was expendable , actually , colonel .
but , colonels were expendable , too , in this mans army !
true , he was an exceptional soldier with a bright and promising future .
but , the army was full of bright , promising , young soldiers with bright , promising futures , and they were all expendable , without regret or hesitation .
captain , colonel tommy lesade just happened to be in a battle zone and the mission he was being called upon to complete was almost guaranteed a one way trip .
as far as general hawk was concerned , they were all expendable .
an opportunity like this came along only once in several lifetimes and he didnt plan on waiting for a few more to pass he wouldnt be here to take advantage of it .
so , it was now or never .
and with colonel tommy lesade on his team , it was now !
there was no way hawk was going to miss this chance .
he would never get another .
he picked up his phone and dialed a number .
he leaned back in his chair and smiled .
this was going to top the nazi sacking of europe .
hed bet his life on it .
cramer , a male voice answered at the other end .
ive found our soldier , hawk stated , obvious pleasure in his demeanor .
hes perfect !
absolutely perfect !
can he be trusted ?
absolutely , hawk assured the man on the other end of the phone .
send his file .
its on its way .
cramer hung up without another word .
hawk didnt mind .
he had learned a long time ago that the cia was a bunch of unusual characters .
they made damn good friends and damn bad enemies .
he hoped he never had to cross one of them .
it would be a sad , short day for him .
accidents happened all the time and generals werent immune .
but , if this worked as he knew it would , his second star was guaranteed .
if he could get the right stuff on the right people in the process , then , president of the united states was not out of the question .
one may as well aim high , was his motto .
the only drawback , as far as he was concerned , was that one could never aim high enough .
if one didnt aim high and allow for a little drop and drift over time and distance , there was no telling where one would land , nor in what condition .
hawk planned to land directly on target .
as always !
lieutenant !
he bellowed at the door .
sir ?
the lieutenant answered , coming to full attention on the other side of the door , then marching two steps to the door and opening it , then stepping in and saluting .
deliver this file to mister niles cramer over at the c.i.a .
office .
hes waiting on it , so dont delay !
i want it there ten minutes ago !
what the fuck are you waiting on , soldier !
youre on the clock !
hawk bellowed at the top of his lungs , seeing the soldiers skeleton through his uniform as he paled nearly translucent , then virtually ran from the office .
damn , but i love this shit !
hawk told himself in a barely audible voice as the lieutenant disappeared like a wraith in the wind , nearly jumping through his ass to please his superior .
thats the great thing about power , hawk thought .
people paid attention and respect to the powerful .
and he was powerful .
but , not near powerful enough .
not yet , but he would be .
time , he said softly .
its just a matter of time !
tommy stepped through the door at the cia office as ordered .
he had been summoned less than a half an hour ago .
i wonder what this is all about , he asked himself for the hundredth time in the last half hour .
it must have something to do with the after action reports i filed with intelligence , he told himself , also for the hundredth time .
in reality , he really didnt have a clue what it was all about .
captain tommy lesade , to see mister niles cramer .
im expected , he added , as he stood at the desk and looked down at the civilian secretary .
yes , sir , the young woman smiled , getting up and leading the way down the hall .
right this way .
tommy followed her down the hallway and into a very sparse office .
the only furniture was a gray metal desk and an even grayer filing cabinet .
a gray metal ladder back chair sat in front of the desk .
he also expected the man behind the desk was also gray metal .
he looked at the face through the pall of gray cigar smoke roiling around the dim light from the desk lamp .
the smoke floated in a thick cloud obscuring the mans face .
have a seat , the man said .
he obviously knew nothing about military courtesy , being a civilian and all , tommy told himself as he took a seat .
if he did he certainly doesnt know how to show it , he added .
captain , you have been very highly recommended from very high up for a top secret mission .
top secret , the man reiterated .
very highly classified .
very dangerous and just the opportunity for a man on the move up the military ladder , such as yourself .
are you in or out ?
what is this mission , sir ?
tommy asked .
top secret !
very classified !
are you in or out , captain ?
cramer replied without moving a muscle or blinking an eye that tommy could see through the cloud of smoke .
tommy thought for a few seconds , then for no reason he would ever be able to explain , he said , im in .
good , the man he assumed was cramer stated .
as you know , from this moment on you can not discuss this mission with anyone except me .
no one else , period .
i dont care what their rank , security level or title is .
you will not acknowledge the existence of this mission with anyone now , or in the future .
i dont care if you live to be three hundred years old and have all your faculties about you .
you will not discuss this mission with anyone but me , he repeated .
do you understand , captain ?
yes , sir .
no one but you , period !
very well .
sign this .
read it first , cramer advised .
tommy read the document , then reread it .
it was basically an iron clad contract which said that when he signed it , if word of his mission was to become known to anyone besides himself and cramer , he would be held absolutely responsible for the leak and would be court martialed and convicted and would face a minimum of life imprisonment and possibly death by firing squad , or hanging .
there was no way he was going to sign this document !
fuck you , mister !
im not signing this , tommy said seriously , tossing it back onto the desk .
this is a fucking death warrant !
bravo !
cramer said , clapping his hands slowly .
exactly !
i wouldnt sign it either .
so you just passed the first test , cramer laughed .
so , sign this one .
tommy read the document , then reread it .
then signed it .
it basically said that under no circumstances including threat of death would he reveal anything about the mission he was being sent on to anyone not authorized to receive that information .
cramer was the only one authorized that tommy knew of .
cramer was his only contact .
captain , you just passed test number two .
now , who are you authorized to deliver any and all information to concerning your mission ?
only you , that i know of , he replied .
test three passed !
follow me , cramer said , rising from behind his desk and heading for the door .
tommy followed him down the hallway and through a door .
they entered a large map room .
cramer approached a large map of the middle east , but turned at the last moment and approached a map of iraq and pointed to a spot in what seemed the middle of the desert .
this is where you are going , cramer said .
and this is where you are .
he pointed to another spot just a little east of baghdad .
as you know , iraq is biting the big one !
saddam hasnt a chance of ice in hell of winning this war .
but , as you know there are literally hundreds of war lords and tribal leaders that are going to raise billy hell once saddam is history .
the problem is , for the past twenty years or so , saddam has been robbing the iraqi people blind .
he didnt trust his own banking system , so stockpiled billions of american dollars in bunkers in very secluded spots , filling them with tons and tons of currency , gold , platinum , diamonds and any other thing that held intrinsic value and was easily stashed .
now , he is history and uncle sam wants all his money back .
the gold bullion will be given to the iraqi government once it is in place and stable .
its theirs , after all .
they can have it .
your mission is to capture this lone bunker where we believe there is between two hundred and five hundred trillion american dollars stored maybe half again as much gold bullion , platinum and diamonds .
we dont know for sure .
there are always between eight and twelve guards at any given time .
you are to eliminate the guards and secure the facility .
you will then activate a beacon you will be carrying to alert me that your mission is accomplished .
i will arrange for your pick up and evacuation back to safety .
you will be given everything you want or need to accomplish this mission .
any questions ?
only one , tommy mused .
when do i leave ?
when youre ready , cramer smiled .
it will take me one phone call to get you reassigned tdy , temporary duty , to me .
it will be done by the time youre geared up .
well , lets get going , then , tommy smiled , standing up .
ill make the call .
you go get packed , soldier !
cramer smiled , sitting back down in his chair and relighting his cigar .
two hours later , tommy was headed northeast in a blackhawk helicopter that wasnt black .
it was desert tan camouflage .
it blended in perfectly with the terrain speeding by fifty feet below .
he wasnt worried about their altitude , blackhawk pilots were the best .
he knew he was in good hands .
he felt his eyelids getting heavy , so decided to get some sleep .
he knew it might be a while before he had another chance .
he was right .
while he napped , one hundred and fifty miles behind him , his c.o .
put out an order find captain tommy lesade !
escort him to my office if necessary .
but , get him here !
now !
unknown to him , the search was futile .
captain tommy lesade was on a secret mission and wouldnt be coming back anytime soon .
tommy snapped wide awake when the chopper bumped into the sand upon landing .
it seemed to him that he had just closed his eyes .
he glanced at his watch .
hed been asleep for a little over two hours .
he didnt know that just ten minutes earlier he had been listed as awol by his commanding officer .
end of the line , captain , the pilot said over his shoulder .
good enough , tommy replied , as he opened the cargo door , climbed down and began unloading his gear .
good luck , the pilot yelled .
tommy nodded his head and slammed the door .
he picked up his pack and moved away from the chopper .
he took out his compass to get his bearings .
when he was satisfied he knew where he was , and where he was going , he shouldered his pack and started walking .
his destination was approximately ten miles northwest of his present location .
it would take him about three hours to get there , more or less .
it would be pitch dark long before he arrived .
but , that was the plan .
arrive after dark , dig in and watch , and wait .
when he had their routine down , make his move .
simple .
this little exercise wont take three days , he thought , as he humped along .
he periodically scanned his surroundings with his binoculars to insure he was alone and unobserved .
it would be pure hell to get caught .
so , he wasnt going to get caught .
plain and simple .
back at headquarters , colonel austin lake had just gone into thermal nuclear meltdown .
lesades ass was his !
when he found him .
and he would find him !
where could he go ?
it just dont make no goddamn sense !
he screamed .
who in the hell would go awol in the middle of the goddamn desert .
in the middle of a goddamn war ?
this aint like lesade !
goddamnit !
ill skin his white ass from here to goddamn austin lake !
he roared , as the anger and pressure of lesades absence began to mount once again .
the sun was going down on tommy in more ways than one .
luckily , ignorance was bliss .
he was about four miles from his target .
he stopped , scanned his surroundings , and then took a small drink from his canteen , then continued on his journey .
an hour later he saw the glow of lights in the distance .
he seemed to be coming up directly in front of the bunker which was exactly where he wanted to be .
he low crawled up the last dune between him and the bunker and peeked over carefully .
he was looking straight in the front door .
perfect !
he thought as he began to bury himself into the sand .
from his pack he took a sand colored sheet with four , foot long stakes attached to the corners .
this he spread over his body from head to foot .
not only did it blend in perfectly , but it repelled heat as well .
when he got the lower part into position , he folded the sheet up to his waist and rolled over onto his stomach .
from his pack he took a foot long telescoping pipe that appeared to be sand colored pvc .
he extended it to four feet and pushed it through the top of the dune .
when it came out the other side , he crawled over the top of the dune , pushed the end of the pipe back even with the sand and removed the pointed cap from the end , then crawled back over the dune and under the sheet .
he slid back down the dune until he could see through the tube and into the front door of the bunker without raising his head too far .
next he pushed the two top stakes into the sand until they were flush with the surface , then pulled the sheet up over his head and folded the inner edges under and covered them with sand .
this would keep stray gusts of wind from getting under the sheet and making it billow up in the middle like a dome .
after looking around carefully and deciding the sheet was virtually undetectable , he ducked under and pulled the sheet into place .
he looked through the tube .
nothing moved around the bunker as night fell like a black curtain across the desert .
the place seemed to be deserted .
satisfied he was safe , he decided a nap was in order .
he was awakened by the sound of a racing engine and loud excited voices .
he looked through the tube .
eight men were unloading supplies from the back of a pickup truck .
the driver stayed behind the wheel and raced the engine as if he were at indy .
now was a perfect time .
if only he could be sure there were no more men in the bunker .
all eight at once .
all in one place .
plus , the driver .
he wouldnt get a better chance for maybe a week .
hed better go for it he decided , as he pulled the sniper rifle up beside him and eased himself to the top of the dune very slowly .
the men below were too busy to notice the small silenced rifle barrel lying on top of a sand dune at four hundred yards away .
tommy studied the positions of the men and figured a firing order as if connecting the dots .
he decided on the driver first , to prevent a possible get away , then the man standing at the bunker door .
from there he would work left to right , back to front .
this order would keep them away from the door and virtually out in the open .
his first shot took the driver clean , laying him gently over in the seat .
the truck lunged and died .
the men laughed and made jokes .
his second shot hit its mark and the man dropped like a rock .
after that it was like shooting pigs in a pen .
within a minute and a half eight men lay dead , or dying .
everything was silent as the grave .
tommy kept the cross hairs on the center of the opened door .
he halfway expected someone to show up to find out what had happened to all the talking and joking , and the steady stream of supplies that should have been coming into the bunker .
five minutes passed .
nothing .
ten minutes , nothing .
fifteen , nothing .
then , a head appeared and started up what was obviously stairs .
he seemed to grow out of the sand in the doorway .
tommy let him get halfway up and then shot him between the eyes .
he crumbled like a puppet whose strings had been cut .
tommy waited thirty minutes this time nothing .
an hour nothing .
he slowly eased back down the dune .
he took his binoculars and slowly scanned the surrounding area .
nothing moved .
he slowly stood and , carrying his rifle at the ready , his eye to the scope , he started for the bunker , stepping soft and slow , the rifle making a slow 180 arc across his front .
ten minutes later , he had covered the four hundred yards .
he stood beside the door , looking and listening .
voices , either a tv or a radio , he decided .
he started down the steep steps , one step at a time .
at the bottom he spun the rifle barrel quickly around the room .
it was empty except for a long sofa , two tables and eight chairs .
on one of the tables was a radio and on the other a tv .
both were playing at once and at close to top volume .
at the back of the room was a door .
he stood beside it , turned the knob slowly and carefully , and then jerked it open .
he almost fainted when he saw what lay beyond .
from the door , as far back as he could see were pallets of money .
he stepped inside and started slowly through the pallets .
on his left and right , two pallets , four feet by four feet by three feet high , and stacked two high .
he came to a crossway , looking slowly left and right .
he saw no one .
he went deeper into the warehouse until he was several pallets from the back wall .
the money stopped and the gold bars , stacked on pallets eight or ten bars high , began .
there were hundreds of the pallets .
at the far end were large boxes sitting on pallets , he went to them and looked inside one .
diamonds !
tons of diamonds !
tommy found it hard to believe , hard to breathe and hard to control his heartbeat .
it seemed to want to race away with him .
he had never been so excited , that he could remember , anyway .
he scanned the warehouse once again .
it appeared to be empty .
at least he hoped so .
then the question that had been nagging at the back of his head came forward and was recognized where did they sleep ?
he went back through the pallets quickly and was soon back at the door leading into the front room .
then , he saw it , a door on the far left hand side of the room .
it was covered with a large tapestry .
it wavered gently in a cross draft .
he wondered how he had missed it the first time through .
that was a deadly mistake .
it was mistakes like that that got men killed , he chided himself as he stepped over to the tapestry and gently , slowly pulled it back and stepped inside .
four men lay sleeping , two to a bed .
he killed them as they slept .
he felt no remorse .
he was a soldier , as were they .
this was war .
they were the enemy .
if they didnt want to die , they shouldnt sleep so heavy .
the bunker was clear and it was time for the beacon and time to relax and wait .
while he did though , he had to do something with the bodies outside .
might as well put them to bed , he thought as he climbed the steps slowly , his rifle up and ready for the unexpected .
outside was clear and thirty minutes later he had the last man lying softly on top of his friends .
they had all smelled like goats .
now he smelled like a goat , too .
he drove the truck out into the desert and left it .
he would have burned it , but he knew the smoke would draw unwelcome company .
on his way back to the bunker , he grabbed his gear and took it with him .
he activated the beacon as he went .
when he got back he sat in the stairwell just high enough so he could see out .
that way no one could sneak up on him .
he was careful not to sit in the blood and urine from the man who had died on the steps .
he was on full alert when , less than two hours later he saw a plume of dust rising into the midday sky to the north .
looking through his binoculars he could see the lead truck .
it was an eighteen wheeler pulling two large box trailers with giant white crosses painted on the sides .
he began to prepare for a fight if need be .
the eighteen wheeler pulled to a stop in front of the bunker .
tommy was surprised when cramer climbed down from the cab .
he was smiling as he approached tommy , as if they were old friends .
his right hand was extended in friendship .
one thing about you , captain , he smiled .
you are proficient .
wasnt nothing to it .
there were only thirteen of them , he stated frankly .
cramer shook his head in amazement .
only thirteen of them , he says !
what a character .
so , were we right ?
is old saddams treasury here ?
he finished , turning serious once again .
come see for yourself .
tommy replied , then turned and led the way to the stash .
cramer stood in shock for a moment before he started walking through the underground vault .
he nearly fainted when he saw the pallets of gold bullion and tons of diamonds in the boxes .
you know ive been wondering about something for a while now , tommy stated in a bewildered tone , studying cramers face seriously .
yeah , whats that ?
cramer replied , as if he hadnt a care in the world .
tommy looked at him wonderingly , as if a light bulb had come on inside his head .
how in the hell did they get it all in here .
i doubt they carried it , he added .
oh , i doubt they carried it , cramer agreed .
so , there must be another way in here .
if we look around a little we may find it , too .
he added , beginning to look around .
well , start looking captain .
we cant carry it up the stairs .
that would take us a month .
and we surely dont have a month .
well be lucky if we get a few hours , he continued , beginning to search the wall in front of him .
tommy was looking along the back wall .
something about the wall didnt look right .
he was no structural engineer , but something didnt look quite right to him .
cramer , come here and look at this .
it doesnt look right to me , he finally said , believing he had found a secret .
cramer walked over and tommy pointed to what didnt look right to him .
cramer agreed and they both began to look closer .
tommy was searching along the wall when he found an indentation that looked suspicious .
he stuck his fingers in and felt a switch of some sort .
he pulled it and the wall began to slide back .
it concealed a loading dock with a hydraulic ramp and a forklift as large as he had ever seen .
well captain , you win the prize , cramer said as he walked through the opening to the forklift .
he climbed up on it and turned the key .
it started right up .
he turned it off and climbed down .
theres got to be a ramp around here somewhere , he said looking along the wall carefully .
tommy had already spotted a red lever on the side wall .
he walked over and pushed it to the up position .
the bottom of the wall began to slide forward and the top began to lower .
the entire wall was a loading ramp .
it continued to drop and level out until they were looking at the blue sky a few yards away .
they walked up the ramp and looked out .
then , turned around and looked down the ramp .
it was too steep to back the trailers down and then pull the load out again .
they would have to drive the forklift up and load the trailers outside .
tommy saw another lever .
he pulled it to the side .
the wall began to lower more .
the ramp was adjustable to fit the height of the trailer doors .
well , cramer smiled .
looks like of saddam was thinking ahead after all .
so , the only thing to do , i guess , is to get it all loaded .
then skedaddle !
right ?
right , tommy said softly .
suddenly he was feeling very strange about the whole affair .
something didnt feel right about this .
he was expecting at least a platoon of american soldiers to accompany the truck as guards on this much money , gold and diamonds .
where are the guards for the transport ?
he asked curiously .
this is a top secret mission , captain , cramer replied smoothly .
the fewer people who know , the better .
right ?
right .
tommy agreed , still hearing the alarm bells going off in his head .
ill get the trucks around and start loading , cramer smiled , placing a friendly hand on tommys shoulder .
relax , captain .
youve done your part .
now , well do the rest .
true to his word , cramer worked nonstop for the next three hours loading the eight trailers , stacking the pallets two high from front to back .
he loaded four pallets of currency first , then four pallets of gold bars , then four boxes of diamonds .
then repeated the process until all eight trailers were loaded and the warehouse was somewhat depleted but far from empty .
the last two trailers were loaded with nothing but currency .
the pallets of gold bars had been so heavy that he could only load it one pallet at a time so it took twelve trips per trailer just for the gold alone .
when the last of the currency was loaded into the last trailer , cramer and tommy began to set thermal charges throughout the whole underground complex and set the detonators to on .
all they would have to do was flip the switch and the bunker complex was history .
from a mile down the road tommy and cramer stood beside the trailer with the remote detonator .
here , you do the honors , captain .
conclude operation clean sweep .
you captured it , you destroy it , he smiled handing over the remote .
tommy took it and then made a major mistake he turned his back on cramer .
when he flipped the switch and watched the bunker blow , his own lights went out and he fell to the ground .
sorry captain , cramer said , as tommy slumped to the ground hard .
the fewer people who know , the better .
be thankful i didnt just kill you .
ill let the ragheads do that little duty for me !
he laughed , then turned and climbed up into the truck , started the engine and shifting gears with a roar , sped down the road , his double stacks blowing black smoke into the crystal blue sky of iraq .
chapter 3 when tommy woke up , he knew he was in deep shit up to the top of his ears , to be exact .
there were no less than twenty iraqi soldiers standing around him with their ak 47s pointed at his head .
they each looked like a cannon barrel as he stared up them .
each of the iraqi soldiers looked at him as if they would like nothing better than to slit his throat and drink his blood as he died .
they seemed to be arguing bitterly among themselves .
then , after each had his say , he would look down at tommy and grin evilly , with murder lurking on the surface of their eyes .
tommy could only lay on his back and stare up at them in silence .
he didnt move , didnt blink and most of all , he didnt show fear .
he knew the worst they could do was kill him .
and they could only do that once .
however , if he could have known just how wrong he was , he may have chosen to make a fight of it there and then .
but , ignorance is bliss and he lay there and hoped for the best .
he didnt know their best was hell on earth .
finally , their arguing seemed to be done .
at least it was over for the moment .
he noticed one of the soldiers , he presumed the leader , looking at him earnestly .
he stepped over and knelt down beside him .
he spoke with a pakistani accent .
his breath smelled of garlic and sage .
my brothers are very angry with you , american .
they say it is not enough that you come to our country , kill our people , take our oil , deny us food and medicine , kill our leaders and holy people but now , you have helped steal our countrys wealth , as well !
money our president has earned in honorable ways and holds in trust for his people .
my brothers wish to kill you and let your friends escape with the money they have taken .
but , i tell them , you are an honorable man and will tell them where your friends take the money , yes ?
is this not so , since your friends have betrayed you as well ?
i do not know where they have taken it , tommy replied honestly .
the pakistani soldier translated what tommy said .
the arguing resumed , both louder and more animated .
they each cast evil eyes of hate at tommy .
they seemed to take turns kicking him and poking him with the barrel of their weapons .
finally , having reached a decision , the soldier knelt beside tommy and said , shaking his head sadly .
i am very sorry for you , american .
my brothers say you must ride the dead camel and allow the living camel to ride you .
i am very sorry .
if only you would tell my brothers where the money goes , perhaps , they will change their minds and kill you quickly .
i do not know where the money goes , tommy said , but thought , if i live through this , rest assured that i will find out and vengeance will be mine , sayth tommy lesade !
the soldiers picked him up roughly and loaded him into the bed of one of their pickup trucks .
they all , as many as could be fitted into the bed of the truck , sat around him and used his body for their foot rest and also to hold him down .
they then lowered the barrels of their aks onto his body , trying to scare him he guessed .
it didnt work .
he was not afraid of death .
he was more afraid of what the very near future held in store for him .
if the hand gestures some of the soldiers were making were indications of what lay in store for him , he was in very , very , deep shit !
he began to prepare himself mentally .
he could not prepare physically .
there was no physical preparation for what he feared lay ahead .
all he could do was endure , hopefully from a place very far away .
by the time the pickup stopped , tommy was ten years old again .
he sat on his toes and heels in a kneeling position if front of master chang , his martial arts instructor and mentor .
master chang , a north korean , had been raised in a buddhist temple in the mountains of tibet .
he was a master in the arts of self defense .
not just the physical aspects , but also the mental .
he had passed his wisdom on to little tommy lesade .
he had seen in tommy an empty vessel a dry sponge that needed water to survive .
master chang was the water that needed a dry sponge to fill .
by filling tommy with his wisdom and discipline , master chang insured his survival into the next life .
he had taught tommy that the human body was in fact , two separate but coexisting entities .
the body and the mind .
each could survive without the other .
the mind used the body and the body used the mind .
the body being the host of the mind and the mind being the master of the body .
through years of practice and discipline tommy had become a master of separating his body and mind .
as he lay in the bed of the pickup he began to separate the two .
when the pickup stopped in a village he was completely divorced from his body .
he existed totally inside his mind .
he was unaware of the punishing blows and kicks from his captors .
instead , he sat silent in front of master chang and soaked up the knowledge and wisdom being offered by his mentor .
he occasionally asked an insightful question , then sat in silence and absorbed the knowledgeable answer .
master chang calmly told him what was being done to his body and how to accept it without succumbing to it .
to succumb , he said , was to admit defeat and surrender .
i will never surrender to them , master chang !
tommy swore , his voice a pain filled whisper that was drowned out by the excited cries and loud shouting of his captors .
some saw his lips move but had no idea what he was saying .
furthermore , they didnt care what he was saying , they were busy preparing the dead camel tommy was to ride until he told them where the money had been taken .
the dead camel was a fully stuffed camel penis .
it was approximately sixteen inches long and as big around as a mans wrist .
the engorged head was nearly the size of a baseball .
tommy was to be slowly lowered onto the upright penis and skewered through his rectum .
he was unaware that he had been lowered to his knees .
he was also unaware that he was being tied in such a way that he was unable to move his hips in any direction except up and down .
he was unaware that he had been weighted with sand bags around his shoulders .
each bag weighed approximately fifty pounds .
he carried two in front and two in back .
he was unaware that the dead camel had been placed in position beneath him .
it had not been greased or oiled .
that would have made the invasion of his body less painful .
after all , the idea was to create as much pain as possible and make him suffer enough to talk .
or at least make him suffer he was an infidel pig !
an unbeliever !
an enemy of allah !
and most of all , an american invader !
he was unaware that the weight he held on his upper body had forced him lower and had brought his anus into contact with the giant penis .
he was unaware of the pain and stretching of his sphincter muscle as the strength of his legs gave way and he began to be impaled upon the penis .
he was unaware that only one hour had passed since the weights had been placed upon his shoulders .
he was unaware of the laughs and taunts , the smiles and comments , the pointing and exaggerations of the men around him , as they watched the entire process happen .
he did not hear or understand their comments .
he was unaware of the periodic lowering of the rope that held his hands above his head , so he would slide farther down the enormous penis .
he was unaware of the knife slashes across his back and torso bleeding him out so that he would lose strength faster .
master chang told him of the carelessness of his captors .
master chang told him to endure until his captors became relaxed and were convinced that he was beyond recovery .
master chang would tell him when to act and how to move to eliminate his captors , torturers , and how to escape .
he was unaware of the fullness of his body , as the large penis entered deeper into him .
he was unaware when his sixth hour of captivity had passed .
he was unaware that half of his captors had left and that half of those who remained were bored and falling asleep .
he was unaware when the eighth hour of his captivity had passed .
he was unaware that it was three oclock in the morning and that he had been impaled for four hours .
he was unaware that his body began to slowly rise up and off the dead camel .
he was unaware when it slipped from his anus and his hands freed themselves from the rope binding them overhead .
he was aware only that master chang guided his every move and counseled him constantly in his recovery and escape .
he was not aware that his fourteenth hour of captivity had passed when the last rope fell free from his waist .
he only became fully aware when master chang released him and told him to let the killing begin !
when awareness came back into his eyes he was standing erect in the middle of the dimly lit room .
around him twelve iraqi soldiers lay sleeping peacefully .
in front of him dangled a rope .
at his feet lay more rope and the giant , bloody and feces coated penis .
his rectum screamed with burning pain from the invasion .
he mentally turned off the pain receptors there and began to systematically kill the sleeping iraqis , silently and proficiently with his hands and feet .
he became a blur of action as he moved from soldier victim to soldier victim and sent them to paradise , ending their life instantly and virtually silently .
one man made it to his feet .
a side kick to his chest slammed him against the wall , and then continued inward to crush his sternum , rib cage and heart against his spine and the wall .
the rest died virtually painlessly from broken necks , skulls crushed against walls , crushed larynx and severed spinal cords in the neck , ruptured hearts and crushed temporal regions .
the entire killing spree lasted less than two minutes .
the room was silent , smelled of fecal matter , urine , blood , death and raw meat .
tommy stepped to the door , eased it open and peeked out .
he looked left and right .
outside , two iraqis stood guard .
they acted unaware of the slaughter inside as they looked up and down the street .
they held their aks at their sides by the pistol grips .
tommy silently opened the door and stepped out .
he looked left and right to insure there were only two guards around .
that was all he could see .
he silently approached the men from behind .
they were completely unaware that death was upon them and he was furious .
one of them saw movement in his peripheral vision , but it was far too late .
they died instantly while still standing in place .
he lowered them to the ground and squatted beside them .
he continued looking left and right like a predator over its kill .
he quickly searched them .
they had nothing he needed .
he stood and began walking silently down the deserted road and out of the village .
as he walked down the road , he entered each dwelling and slaughtered the adults without mercy , both men and women .
he spared only the children .
no one suffered , they all died instantly .
by sun up , he was the only living adult in the entire village , with the exception of one young woman in her early twenties .
she hid , trembling and praying to allah for deliverance from his angel of death who he had sent to punish his village for their unrighteousness .
she stared at the white , blood covered american devil as he walked trancelike from the village .
allah answered the young girls prayers .
tommy found a pickup with the keys in the ignition .
in the back were his clothing and gear .
he also found and took a brand new ak 47 rifle and a case of ammunition .
in the cab were maps of iraq .
he would dress later , he decided , getting in the pickup and driving from the hell he left behind .
as he drove out of the village the young girl came out of hiding .
she stood in the middle of the street her arms raised to allah in supplication .
she wailed her sorrow into the early morning sky to a god that failed to answer her most adamant prayer send lightning from the sky and kill the american devil that killed her family before he escaped to kill the rest of the iraqi people !
now , a village of one young woman and twenty seven children alone , whom would all suffer the trauma of this night for the rest of their lives .
yet , they had witnessed not one single killing .
however , they had found the bodies of the village adults and that was enough .
tommy had been driving for several hours after leaving the village behind .
he followed the map as closely as he could .
he figured as long as he was traveling southwest he would eventually reach safety .
he was not far from wrong .
he saw a large plume of dust in the distance ahead of him .
he pulled the pickup to the side of the road and stopped to wait .
he got out and armed himself to the teeth .
if it was americans he would be safe .
if it was iraqis he would be dead before the fight was over .
he began checking the weapons in the back of the truck , they were all fully loaded .
he began to mentally prepare himself for his death .
he wondered how many he could take with him before they got him .
he waited .
the first vehicle he saw clearly was an m 1a2 abrams tank .
he was safe , he hoped .
he laid his weapons in the back of the truck , raised his hands to the sky and walked out ahead of the truck toward the oncoming tank .
he was still naked and covered in dried blood .
some of the knife cuts to his body still wept blood and plasma .
they burned like fire with his sweat .
the tank came to a rocking stop in the middle of the road .
m 16a2 rifle barrels pointed at him from several positions on and around the tank .
he kept walking up the road toward it , arms raised to the sky .
halt !
a voice yelled from around the tank .
tommy stopped and turned all the way around so the soldiers could see he wasnt carrying anything concealed on his body .
he stopped facing the tank once again , and waited .
i am captain tommy lesade of the fifth ranger battalion .
i was taken captive yesterday afternoon .
i managed to escape , he yelled at the tank , so he could be heard over the idling diesel engine .
do not move !
i repeat , i am captain tommy lesade of the united states army fifth ranger battalion .
i was captured yesterday afternoon .
i escaped my captors earlier this morning !
i repeat !
do not move !
the voice stated emphatically , ignoring what tommy had said .
a dusty , desert tan camouflage humvee pulled around the tank and came to a stop .
the doors opened and two soldiers climbed out .
they slowly approached him , weapons leveled and ready for immediate use should he give them reason .
they stopped ten feet away .
we are with the american armed forces .
we ... one of the soldiers started before tommy rudely interrupted him .
dont you fucking understand english , sergeant ?
tommy interrupted calmly .
i am captain tommy lesade of the united states army fifth ranger battalion .
i was captured yesterday afternoon and managed to escape earlier this morning .
do you understand that ?
he speaks english !
the sergeant said , looking over at his partner .
tommy glared at them as if they were imbeciles .
whats in the truck ?
the sergeant asked , looking over at the truck .
my gear and weapons , tommy said .
lots and lots of weapons .
why are you naked , captain ?
the sergeant asked .
youve been cut up some .
ill live , tommy replied .
i didnt stop to get dressed .
what kind of weapons ?
the sergeant asked .
my sniper rifle and a lot of aks .
some rpgs .
my survival gear , he replied , feeling they were trying to talk him in circles to get him confused , in case he was a well trained enemy soldier .
or a spy sent to infiltrate the american forces .
where were you held captive , captain ?
a village northeast of here , tommy said calmly .
the only survivors were the children , he added .
well check it out .
how far northwest ?
northeast .
the village is northeast of here .
nearly sixty miles as the crow flies .
farther by road , he replied .
can you contact major andrew ryan ?
hes a blackhawk pilot .
i dont know what unit hes with .
ive only met him twice , he added , beginning to waver on his feet .
well see , later .
hold your hands out , palm up , the sergeant said .
tommy complied .
dave , go check out the truck .
dont touch anything !
it might be booby trapped !
youre not very bright , are you sergeant ?
tommy said .
oh , im plenty bright , captain .
plenty careful and plenty alive .
i plan on keeping my ass and the asses of my men that way , too !
yes , i guess i do understand your caution , tommy said thoughtfully .
i guess you are bright enough after all sergeant .
ill do .
just weapons and gear , like he said , sarge , dave said from behind him as he returned from the truck .
american cammies , sniper rifle and survival pack .
bunch of aks and rpgs , too , he added .
well , maybe you are who you claim to be , the sergeant said doubtfully .
ill tell you what , captain .
you go to the truck and pull out whatever is yours .
come halfway back , stop and spread it all out on the ground .
then , come the rest of the way back .
got it ?
got it , tommy answered , then turned and walked to the truck .
he could understand their caution .
americans had been killed by car bombs and suicide bombers and what the military were taking to calling ieds improvised explosive device .
the sergeant didnt plan to get his name , or the name of any of his men on the list , either .
tommy collected his gear and walked halfway back .
he spread it all out on the ground , then walked the rest of the way back .
one question , the sergeant said as he approached .
why didnt you stop and get dressed along the way ?
tommy shrugged .
saved a lot of time and trouble , didnt it ?
yeah , i guess so , the sergeant smiled .
dave , check out his gear .
dave walked over to his spread out gear and looked around .
he didnt touch anything .
after a minute he came back .
looks okay to me .
okay .
george ?
the sergeant yelled over his shoulder .
yeah , sarge ?
light that truck up !
as the barrel of the tank lowered and the turret turned to face the truck , the sergeant led tommy and dave over beside the tank and stuck his fingers in his ears .
they did the same .
the tank bellowed and the pickup truck ceased to be .
there was just a smoldering crater where it used to be .
the truck itself was smoking twisted scraps of metal scattered across the desert behind the smoking crater .
okay , lets inspect your gear and get the hell out of here , the sergeant said , leading the way back over to tommys gear .
after an exceptionally thorough inspection the sergeant told tommy to pack it up and load it in the back of the humvee .
and to get dressed , he was tired of looking at his bloody naked ass and swinging meat .
he still wasnt convinced that tommy was who he claimed to be .
when tommy was packed up , the sergeant called his medic over and had him clean and patch the knife cuts on tommys body .
the medic was aghast at the number , depth and randomness of the slashes .
they wanted you to live a long time , captain , he said , cleansing the wounds and putting antiseptic cream and bandages over them .
they had other things in mind , tommy said .
they wanted me to suffer .
why didnt you ?
the medic asked .
i mean , why did they let you escape ?
they didnt let me escape , tommy smiled .
i just have better control of myself than they did .
you said , major andrew ryan ?
the sergeant , who tommy learned was named murry , asked , as he walked up and studied the number of cuts and bandages .
youre a tough sumbitch , ill give you that , he added .
you say this major can positively identify you ?
he added , looking tommy in the eyes .
yes , tommy replied .
you better hope , captain .
hes on his way .
if he dont know you , youre dead meat !
he knows me .
you smell like a fucking bloody goat !
murry said , then turned away .
yeah , i do , tommy smiled at his retreating back .
the blackhawk helicopter circled the convoy , then flared and began to float to the ground .
when it was firmly on the ground and the rotor nearly stopped the door opened and ryan stepped out to the ground .
sergeant murry , dave and tommy stood in front of the humvee and watched him approach .
dont say a word , mister , murry told tommy as ryan got closer .
well , captain lesade .
we meet again .
its becoming a habit , it seems , ryan said as he approached , hand extended to tommy .
yes , it is , tommy agreed .
captain lesade , my men and i sincerely apologize for your treatment while in our company and custody .
no disrespect was intended , i assure you , sir .
none was taken , sergeant murry .
i assure you , tommy replied .
custody ?
ryan looked confused for a second .
oh yeah , id almost forgot .
rumor has it , captain , that a certain colonel lake is super pissed at you .
pissed at me ?
for what ?
hes got you listed as awol , thats all i know , ryan said .
awol ?
tommy mused , the light coming on in his head .
he had been set up from the word go and he hadnt seen it coming .
trouble was he had no proof .
he remembered his fathers warning from years ago .
he could still see it typed across the computer monitor .
son , never , ever , as long as you live , trust your government or the cia .
at the time he hadnt understood , but he was beginning to , now .
cramer and general hawk had played him for a patsy .
they had sent him on a mission he wasnt meant to survive .
captain , maybe i had better give you a lift back to headquarters .
you need to clear this up , quick !
ryan said .
yeah , he replied .
i do .
on the flight back to headquarters tommy told ryan the entire story .
ryan swore to stand beside him , no matter the outcome .
you know if you accuse a senior officer of wrongdoing without indisputable proof you will face court martial procedures , and more than likely be sent to a military prison somewhere .
most likely leavenworth .
i know .
trouble is , i dont have proof , major .
all ive got is my reputation and word .
yes and the general has that and one hell of a lot more backing him .
without proof , youre dead meat .
period !
ryan said looking across at him .
it may be the best to just talk to colonel lake .
explain everything and maybe , just maybe , he will forget the awol charge .
you obviously dont know the colonel , tommy said .
hes strictly by the book .
ten minutes later the chopper landed at headquarters .
they got a jeep to give them a ride to the sniper battalion and colonel lake .
colonel lakes orderly announced their arrival and as requested by tommy , asked for an hour so tommy could get cleaned up .
request denied !
you tell the captain to get his ass in here right fuckin now !
i want a goddamned explanation !
and i want it now !
they heard lake bellow behind the closed door of his canvas office .
the orderly was ghost white when he came back through the door .
he started to speak but tommy said , i heard .
thanks anyway , lieutenant .
tommy knocked on the door and entered .
he approached the colonels desk .
stopped , came to attention and saluted .
captain lesade reporting as ordered , sir !
explain !
it will take a while , sir .
ive got five years before i retire , captain .
it better be good !
have a seat and get started .
the colonel remained silent throughout the whole recital .
he listened very carefully to every word tommy said .
he seemed to soften slightly when tommy told him about his capture and escape .
captain , do you have even the slightest bit of evidence against general hawk and this cramer guy ?
no , sir , tommy said .
not a shred .
yet , you expect me to buy it hook , line and sinker ?
yes , sir .
ive said nothing but the truth .
you dont think the general will tell the truth ?
no , sir .
not about this .
would you ?
first of all , captain .
i wouldnt become involved in something like this .
but , if i were a greedy man , and i did .
i would lie till hell turned arctic !
i thought it had gone through all the proper channels , colonel .
who am i to question the general ?
youve got a point , lake said thoughtfully .
so heres what ill do , he continued .
ill make some discrete inquiries and see if any mission like this was authorized .
if it has , ill clear you up .
if it hasnt , without proof from you , i have no choice but to recommend court martial proceedings against you on a number of charges .
so , i suggest , captain you get proof , somehow , somewhere .
and take a shower , you smell like a fucking goat at a slaughter house !
youre dismissed , captain !
sir , tommy said as he stood , then saluted .
he did an about face and left the office .
howd it go ?
ryan asked when tommy came out of the colonels office and closed the door behind him .
not good , tommy replied .
without proof , im history .
then , lets get proof .
where ?
lets start with cramer .
if you were cramer , would you be hanging around ?
he believes youre dead .
maybe .
lets go find out .
ive got to get cleaned up .
i smell like a fuckin goat !
yeah , good idea , ryan said , waving his hand under his nose and rolling his eyes up in his head .
its hard to breathe around you , he laughed .
tommy couldnt believe the amount of dirt and blood he washed from his body .
his rectum began to pound again .
he ignored it .
he would need massive amounts of antibiotics to ward off any kind of infection or disease .
he already knew the future .
he was going to kill cramer and the general .
but not before he proved his innocence and sent them to jail in disgrace .
if he had to , hed go to jail with them just so he could see their eyes when they died .
their death would be very slow and very painful .
his first stop after leaving his quarters was at the medical tent .
the medic gave him a shot of penicillin in the ass and a bottle of about fifty pills with directions on how often to take them twice a day until they were all gone .
he could do that , he told himself .
ryan asked after seeing the bottle if he had the clap .
he told ryan that he may have a lot of things far worse .
he didnt elaborate further .
ryan just laughed and shook his head .
i dont know about this younger generation , he commented , as they walked toward the cia office .
how can you chance getting laid ?
so much shit out there that will lay you out on a pine slab , dead .
you must have balls of steel , or a death wish .
youre not gay , are you ?
no , im not gay , tommy assured him .
but , like you said , theres so much shit out there , why gamble ?
i hear you , ryan said , pointing at a door to one side .
this it ?
tommy stared at the limp american flag to one side of the door and nodded his head .
this is it , he responded and then turned and pushed through the door .
a different receptionist was sitting at the desk as was there before .
tommy asked for cramer .
the receptionist stared at them blankly , as if he were brain dead .
cramer , what section is he with ?
tommy asked seriously , thinking maybe the young man hadnt heard the first time .
we dont have a cramer here , the man responded .
tommy moved so quickly and accurately the receptionist could only squeal in pain and surprise .
ryan just blinked .
ill ask you one more time , then im going to cause you so much pain youll squeal for a month .
now , wheres niles cramer ?
he , he left .
i dont know where .
yesterday .
red cross .
pakistan , maybe !
i dont know for sure .
i swear .
i dont know !
the receptionist was ghost white when tommy released him .
he nearly fell as he backed away from them and then quickly got behind his desk once again .
he didnt sit down , deciding flight may be in order .
well , lets go see the general , then , ryan suggested .
lets go , tommy replied , walking toward the door .
im glad you aint mad at me , ryan observed as they pushed through the door .
tommy just grunted .
cramer didnt feel bad about knocking the young captain in the head .
he shouldnt have turned his back on someone he didnt know well enough to trust was the way cramer saw it .
oh , well , live and learn , was another one of cramers mottos .
in this business , one learned fast or died .
cramer was still alive .
he couldnt say as much for the innocent , patriotic young captain .
as soon as some iraqi patrol came along and found him theyd kill him fast enough .
cramer put the truck in gear and let the clutch slowly out until he was moving in first gear .
he followed the other trucks which were almost out of sight ahead .
in his side mirror he saw the captain lying in the sand .
he wasnt moving at all .
maybe i hit him too hard , he thought , continuing to watch in the side mirror as the fallen man quickly was lost in the swirling dust .
cramer looked away to shift gears and when he looked back the captain was lost in the distance and dust .
oh well .
no loss .
captains are expendable .
for hundreds of billions of dollars everyone was expendable .
including generals and lowly cia agents , such as himself .
the truck gathered speed as he took it up through the gears .
his only safety was speed and distance .
and the pakistani border two hundred miles away .
he planned to be across it by night fall .
after dark , they would be vulnerable .
their headlights would be visible for miles on the open flat desert .
they had to make it through the mountains during daylight hours .
even the mountains offered little , if any , protection .
if anything , they were more dangerous .
there was no place to turn around or hide .
the road was too winding to outrun even the slowest vehicle on the road .
so their timing had to be perfect and their luck had to hold .
so far their luck had been perfect .
the young captain had been perfect for the job and one deadly sonofabitch !
maybe i should have just killed him , cramer thought too late .
no , the desert will , if the rags dont .
thats guaranteed !
if cramer would have known how wrong he was , he may have turned the truck around right then and there and gone back to make sure lesade was , in fact , dead .
but , he had no way of knowing that at that precise moment , several dozen iraqi soldiers in pickup trucks were pulling up and surrounding the unconscious captain .
so , cramer drove on in ignorant bliss of the biggest mistake of his forty year life .
general hawk was a lot surprised and perhaps a little frightened when his orderly knocked on his door and announced that captain lesade would like to see him about his completed mission and another matter of great importance .
damn it !
hawk thought .
cramer was supposed to ensure the captain did not make it back from the mission !
deny !
deny !
deny !
thats all he could do at this point .
very well , send him in , the general replied , and then quickly composed himself .
captain lesade reporting , sir !
tommy said , but did not come to attention or salute the general .
he figured what the hell , he may spend the rest of his life at ft. leavenworth , so disrespecting a flag rank officer was no big deal .
captain , have you forgotten military courtesy ?
no , sir , you have .
in what way , captain ?
i never intend to offend .
even those of lower rank , hawk smiled , reminding him of his place in the scheme of things .
sir , while i was under mister cramers command , i was assured by him that he would get your permission to send me on a mission of great importance to you , him , the army and the united states .
he assured me he had your authorization .
i completed the mission successfully and returned to my unit only to learn that i have been listed as awol and that my commanding officer was recommending court martial proceedings against me .
sir , as you know , tommy continued .
during court martial proceedings i have no right , as an officer , to refuse to answer any question i am asked .
i do however have the right to defend myself .
i would prefer not to answer any questions asked by anyone .
therefore , i would like to request that you , perhaps , recommend to my commanding officer , colonel austin lake , that no disciplinary action is needed for my absence .
it would not be in the best interests of the army , or the united states , sir , tommy concluded .
i assure you , captain lesade , this was an oversight on my part and i will take care of it .
sir , could you possibly do it now , while its fresh in your mind ?
of course , captain .
no problem , general hawk said , then reached for his phone and dialed a number .
he listened for a moment while looking tommy over carefully .
yes , this is general hawk .
put colonel lake on , please .
hawk stared at tommy , then nodded without blinking .
to tommy , he looked guilty .
austin , yes fine .
how are you ?
great !
listen austin , a couple of days ago , i meant to inform you that i had need of one of your soldiers .
yes , captain lesade , and it slipped my mind until your report crossed my desk just now and reminded me that i neglected to call you .
yes , sir .
he seems to be an outstanding officer .
colonel , you say ?
i was thinking that very same thing myself .
no , sir , i havent seen him recently .
but , i look forward to meeting with him again .
yes , colonel , i agree .
he is an asset to the army .
yes , colonel .
im disposing of your report as we speak .
okay , austin .
take care .
goodbye .
he hung up the phone and stared at tommy .
politics , captain .
never show your hand .
sir , i appreciate you taking time to take care of this for me .
thank you , sir .
captain , im always here for my men .
rank is irrelevant , the general assured him with a straight face .
a little too straight as far as tommy was concerned .
he was guilty to the same degree as cramer .
is there anything else i can help you with , captain .
no , sir that should handle my problem .
glad to help , captain .
good day , sir .
good day , sir .
again , thank you , sir !
tommy said , then came to attention and saluted the general , then did an about face and left .
lieutenant , destroy the incident report on captain lesade filed by colonel lake , tommy heard the general say as he stepped from his office .
yes , sir !
the lieutenant replied smartly , then stepped from the door and eased it closed behind him .
tommy and ryan waited by the lieutenants desk until he arrived .
well , looks like youre out of the fire on this one , captain , ryan smiled wryly .
lets hope so , tommy said , remembering his fathers words .
i dont trust any of them anymore .
i have a feeling general hawk would have just as soon seen me burn .
what are we waiting for ?
ryan asked , watching as the lieutenant came up to the desk .
i want to see him destroy that report , tommy said .
ill sleep better .
i hear ya , ryan laughed , as the lieutenant came back from a file cabinet with a file in his hand .
captain , i was going to destroy this file before it ever left here .
i didnt believe it when i read it .
its bullshit .
i overheard what the general and you talked about during your last visit .
i knew about the mission , he said , handing tommy the file .
tommy opened it and looked at the report .
after reading it he tore it up and handed the pieces back to the lieutenant for disposal .
lets go , major , tommy said , then turned and headed for the door .
ryan followed .
as soon as tommy left and the door closed , hawk picked up his private phone and hastily dialed a number .
then sat nervously awaiting an answer .
niles cramer , please .
general hawk .
when do you expect him back ?
have him call me .
its an emergency .
thank you .
the general looked worried as he hung up the phone .
captain lesade had to be dealt with .
he could cause more trouble than the general cared to deal with .
there were literally hundreds of billions of dollars on the line .
he wasnt planning to lose his share .
he didnt care how many captains he had to dispose of !
chapter 4 tommys life returned pretty much to normal .
for the following three months , he had been stationed in and around baghdad .
saddam and all his followers were in hiding .
his sons were dead .
the rewards being offered for their heads were not being collected near as fast as everyone had thought .
he had not seen major ryan for the past few weeks , so figured , he must be staying busy flying missions and shooting up what hadnt been already blown up .
tommy had added four more bodies to his already impressive total .
but , hoped he wouldnt have to add more to it .
for the life of him , he couldnt figure out why the iraqi people couldnt stop killing each other and come to some sort of settlement over their differences .
he knew , as the iraqis had to know , that the united states was not going to leave until it got what it wanted , no matter how long it took or how much it cost .
america was top dog and had every intention of staying top dog .
russia had learned as did germany and japan .
for all three it had been very expensive , both in lives and reconstruction .
war was a non profit operation to the loser .
but , if you were top dog , well it was unbelievably lucrative .
top dog never worried about the cost in human lives .
everyone below the top dog position was expendable cannon fodder .
however , to the families of the fodder , no amount of money and power was ever worth the loss of their loved ones lives .
so , what were these people thinking ?
tommy wondered .
were they thinking ?
what was allah thinking ?
tommy wondered if he even appreciated the untold numbers who had given their lives in his name .
wasnt he satisfied , yet ?
how much blood did it take to please a god ?
tommy was glad he was not muslim .
if he were , he would have died at the very beginning .
his dedication and faith knew no bounds .
he would have offered himself up quickly and never regretted it .
captain lesade , sir , a female voice said from behind him , interrupting his storming thoughts .
yes , what is it ?
he answered , glancing over his shoulder from his prone position at the pretty m.p .
lieutenant .
he lay in a nest of sandbags peering through his sniper scope at the streets below .
sir , colonel lake wants to see you at h.q .
as soon as possible , sir .
the lieutenant replied seriously .
tommy stood up and stretched .
he smiled as he looked into the pretty blue eyes of the blond headed girl he towered over .
she was maybe five foot six inches and feisty as a badger on a kill .
even though she weighed less than a hundred and ten pounds soaking wet , he had heard tell she had taken down near seven footers who pushed the scales at three hundred pounds on several occasions .
and she had witnesses to back her up .
stiff , tommy explained , coming out of his stretch .
been lying there for hours .
i know i sure love a good stretch after a long day , she replied .
tommy didnt know for sure if she was serious , or coming on to him , or both .
he decided both .
its really no fun unless you have someone to really stretch out with , though , he winked .
captain !
are you coming on to me ?
of course .
youre beautiful as an angel .
why wouldnt i ?
he replied seriously , smiling down at her as they walked .
thats sexual harassment , she joked playfully .
now , thats what i hate about society today .
a man cant even pay a beautiful woman a compliment without it being sexual harassment !
its a shame !
i agree .
pay me another and i wont report you , she laughed , looking at him from the corner of her eyes .
how about later ?
he smiled down at her .
the colonels waiting .
no , now !
you may be in hot water again and i wont see you later .
so pay me now .
i hate credit , she laughed , enjoying the game .
let me see , tommy said thoughtfully , striking a pose with his chin resting between his thumb and forefinger as he thought .
how about ... shit !
he finished springing in front of her .
she heard a meaty slap , then a rifle shot and tommy was shoved back into her and they fell to the ground .
tommy felt it , but didnt hear it .
he stumbled back into lieutenant tremmels arms and then they were crashing to the ground .
he lay staring up at the cloudless sky .
he kept seeing cramers face lowering to the scope and seeing the puff of smoke from the barrel .
cramer !
he sighed , then rolled over onto his back .
the rifle slug hit him in the right chest , four inches down from his collarbone .
his chest began to suck air and bleed profusely .
lieutenant lindsey tremmel raised her m 16 and began to shoot cover fire as she struggled to drag tommy into a doorway .
she didnt know for sure where the shot had come from , so she covered their whole front .
there was no return fire .
cramer was convinced he had hit his mark .
even the captain wasnt faster than a speeding bullet .
so , he had left the scene and was now running down a back alley to his new office .
when she received no return fire , lindsey began to call for assistance over her radio .
she was promised help in five minutes .
just hold on !
they had said .
what else could she do , she asked herself , applying palm pressure to the hole in tommys chest .
come on captain , dont you die on me !
she demanded .
i might actually be in love with you !
she said aloud , surprising herself .
well , in that case , i wont die on you , then , he said weakly .
you better not , captain !
or you will never get any of this !
she said , again surprising herself .
in that case , cramer could shoot me again and i still wouldnt go anywhere .
until afterward , that is , he joked .
she punched his chest on the left side playfully .
just be quiet , captain .
helps on the way .
should be here any minute .
im being quiet .
if youll give me one good kiss i promise not to raise a ruckus !
she kissed him .
he passed out .
cramer received the generals call just thirty minutes before he fired the fatal shot into the captains young heart .
it had been a close thing .
he had just gotten into position when he saw lesade and the girl mp approaching .
he had the cross hairs directly on lesades heart when he pulled the trigger .
there was no way he missed .
he breathed a sigh of relief .
their secret , and fortunes , were safe .
the captain may have been the best , but no one is faster than a speeding bullet .
not even the best .
thats why he hadnt waited around to gloat , and double confirm that lesade was dead .
the captain was dead .
hanging around wouldnt make him any deader .
besides , he had to get away .
it wouldnt do for him to be caught in the area .
too many questions would be asked and questions were bad .
answers were worse .
especially in his line of work .
he had no desire to provide answers concerning the demise of captain tommy lesade .
he couldnt care less about the captain .
the only two things he cared about in the entire world were that the captain was dead and that his money was safe in pakistan .
with the american crackdown on money transfers it would be several years before he had it all safely salted away in accounts around the world .
but have it he would .
even if it took ten years .
money was good any time .
when he reached his office , he stashed the briefcase containing the disassembled rifle and then relaxed .
he was home free .
no one had seen him and he could not be linked to the death of captain lesade .
he picked up the phone , listened for the dial tone , then dialed the generals private line .
general hawk , the general answered .
the foul deed is done , cramer smiled at the irony .
he had actually enjoyed making the billion dollar shot .
good .
no problem .
good bye , hawk said , then hung up before cramer could respond .
cramer hung up , leaned back in his chair and relaxed .
he lit a cigarette and blew a cloud of smoke around his head .
he hated the foul smelling things , but he had to have them , too .
he smiled into the smoke , he was home free !
when tommy came out of surgery he was missing half of his right lung .
his running days , for the most part , was over .
his military career was over unless he wanted to be a desk commander .
he wouldnt like that for the next ten or twenty years , depending on whether he stayed for twenty or thirty years .
he didnt mind the lung so bad it was the loss of his career that hurt him to his very soul .
the military had been his life , his love .
true , there was the desk option .
but , he knew hed go insane within a year of being strapped to a desk .
he needed to be on the edge .
not necessarily on the cutting edge , but close enough he could see the shine from it .
he couldnt do that from a desk anywhere in the world .
when he opened his eyes in post op recovery lieutenant lindsey tremmel was holding his hand , looking intently into his face and wiping tears from her eyes .
hello angel , he whispered softly .
hi , she smiled , touching his face affectionately .
have i been here long ?
about three hours .
can i get another kiss ?
i dont remember the last one very well .
she kissed him again .
can i get another , angel ?
theyre cheaper by the dozen , she smiled , kissing his lips again .
my credit any good ?
triple a rated .
in that case , ill take a million .
okay , but youll have to sign a contract .
and ill have to have at least sixty or seventy years to deliver the full order .
sounds reasonable , tommy smiled .
i agree , he whispered softly , then began to drift away into sleep again .
when he awakened again he had been moved to a ward and lindsey was gone .
he wondered if he had dreamt her being there and the conversation they had shared and the promises they had made .
maybe , he thought , staring at the ceiling .
he began to think seriously about what he was going to do with his life away from the army .
hell , the army is my life !
i dont know anything else but martial arts and computers .
with a lung and a half ill have to settle for computers .
im still good for writing programs .
very good , he amended .
okay , thats it .
computer programming .
his thoughts began to run wild as he lay his plans for the future .
then , cramers face ducking behind the sniper scope came to mind .
that led to the money and the plans for balancing the scales began to form .
cramer had tried to kill him twice !
it must be the money !
then he knew , they werent taking the money to return it to the united states government , they were stealing it for themselves !
when he thought about it some more , he realized he was the only other person besides cramer and hawk that knew about operation clean sweep .
well , there were the other three drivers of the trucks , but he was sure they were dead by now if they werent in on the theft from the beginning .
and for that much money , what were their simple lives ?
now that he thought about it , cramer had never allowed the other drivers to come to the back of the underground warehouse , or to see what was being loaded into the trailers .
that alone told him they were dead .
their lives meant nothing .
what were three lives compared to that much money ?
what were a hundred ?
was the sky the limit ?
was there a limit ?
for hundreds of billions of dollars in cash and maybe twice that much in gold bullion would anyone be safe ?
tommy was so deep in thought he didnt notice when colonel austin lake approached his bed and looked down at him with a concerned expression .
captain lesade , i hope im not disturbing you , he said softly , so as not to disturb the other patients .
no , sir , tommy replied , glancing up at lakes round , black , bowling ball of a face .
just thinking about the future , he added , noticing the papers in lakes hand .
well , the future is uncertain at best .
but , let me be the first to congratulate you , major , on your promotion .
thank you , sir .
id forgotten about that .
other things came up that took precedent over promotions and such .
too many other things going on , he continued , taking the proffered orders from lake .
yes , lake said thoughtfully .
lots going on around here .
also , he added after a slight hesitation .
let me congratulate you for being awarded the distinguished service cross , the silver star and pending a presidential awards ceremony , the congressional medal of honor .
it is my honor to have known and served with you , sir , lake said , handing tommy the orders for the awards as he named them off .
as tommy took the last , lake came to full attention and saluted him after his last statement .
thank you , sir , tommy replied , returning the salute .
but , i wasnt expecting this .
i dont believe i have earned them , sir .
major , by your actions in the face of overwhelming enemy fire , you single handedly overcame the enemy forces and saved the lives of no less than fifty american soldiers .
it says so right there in those orders signed by the commander in chief .
therefore , it is my humble opinion , sir , that you deserve far more than a simple medal to honor your service , bravery and honor .
thank you , sir .
but , at the time , it didnt seem like much of a big deal .
i was just doing what i was being paid to do .
it never seems like much of a big deal .
it never does , son , lake said thoughtfully , as if he knew from experience .
now , lets talk about something thats been bothering me , he said seriously .
what would that be , sir ?
tommy asked , wondering what it could be .
lake turned serious .
cramer , the colonel stated matter of factly .
tell me about cramer .
tommy told him everything he knew about the cia agent , up to and including cramer shooting him .
he did not mention operation clean sweep .
yes , lieutenant tremmel said you had seen who shot you .
he have a reason ?
not that im aware of , colonel , tommy hedged .
he could not mention details about his secret mission for cramer and hawk .
im gon na do some checking on him .
i want to find out what makes a duck like him quack .
ill be in touch before you leave outa here , major .
any idea when that will be , sir ?
tommy asked , glad to change the subject .
id say within a week .
germany , i think the doctors said , lake replied as if deep in thought .
i guess im doing all right , huh ?
doc said the bullet went in and out .
mangled the lower part of your right lung , deflected off something and came out just above your right hip just below your ribs .
said you were lucky , it could have just as easily went the other way .
i dont feel very lucky .
count your blessings , major , colonel lake said , offering his hand in farewell .
thanks for stopping by , colonel .
no trouble , major .
ill see you later .
yes , sir .
later .
the colonel turned and left .
he had been very deep in thought .
tommy couldnt imagine about what .
maybe hed find out at their next meeting .
the phone on cramers desk rang and he leaned forward through his pall of cigar and cigarette smoke and lifted the handset to his ear .
cramer , he said .
you have a problem , cramer , general hawk stated bluntly .
what may that be , general hawk ?
he responded , figuring that if the general could use his name , then he could sure as hell put his on the wire , or recording .
if it was being recorded .
turn about was fair play where he came from .
you missed your target ... again !
no way !
thats impossible !
then why was he lying in post op recovery at the medical unit day before yesterday with half a lung missing ?
there is no way i missed him !
you didnt miss him , cramer !
you just didnt kill him !
jesus !
cramer said in exasperation .
do you have to go into such graphic detail over the phone ?
what do you plan on doing about it ?
hawk said , ignoring the question .
its not what will i do .
its what the government will do .
im talking about lesade !
hawk yelled into the phone .
cramer jerked the receiver away from his hear , looked at it as if he could see hawks angry face in it .
he cautiously put it back to his ear and said , finish it , of course !
its too late for that , hawk said .
he was on a medical flight to germany this morning .
that is a problem !
cramer stated .
i cant just pick up and go to germany .
youd better figure something !
the general threatened , then slammed down the phone in cramers ear .
cramer hardly noticed .
stunned was not the word cramer would have chosen to describe how he was feeling more like , amazed !
how did he survive a bullet to the heart ?
maybe he is superman !
cramer laughed out loud at his personal joke .
when tommy opened his eyes the next morning lieutenant tremmel was standing in her mp uniform beside his bed .
well , good morning , major , she said sweetly .
are you ready to travel ?
morning angel , he said smiling sleepily .
we going somewhere ?
oh , i thought wed fly over to germany today .
its such a splendid day to be out and about , she said aristocratically , with her nose in the air .
tell me , lieutenant , can a fellow officer get a kiss , he sighed .
just to start a beautiful day off right .
sounds like a direct order to me , she smiled .
and i always follow direct orders from my superior officers , she added , leaning over and kissing him on the lips .
but , wait a minute , she said , raising up and looking him in the eyes .
how do you know its a beautiful day ?
you cant see outside !
well , thats easy , lieutenant tremmel , he smiled .
the first thing i saw was you and that makes all the difference to me .
oh , you silver tongued devil !
she laughed , then kissed him again .
you know all the right things to say to get to a girls heart !
she kissed him again .
when she came up for air two medical personnel were standing behind her .
they tried not to look at her bent over bottom , but they couldnt help themselves .
it was a beautiful view .
excuse us , sir .
maam , one of the medics said .
were here to transport major lesade to the airport .
hes scheduled for a flight to germany this morning .
yes , i know .
im his escort .
here are my orders , she said , taking a copy of her orders from her pocket and handing it to the medic .
youll have to show them to the flight crew , maam .
we just transport to the airfield , maam .
very well , she smiled , putting the orders back in her pocket .
carry on , she added , stepping aside .
the medics transferred tommy from his hospital bed to the ambulance gurney , strapped him down lightly and raised the side rails .
when they were ready , they began to push and pull him from the hospital ward .
lindsey followed closely .
protectively .
that was her property they were transporting and it was very valuable to her .
she had no intention of letting it get out of her sight for a second .
at the airport tommy was loaded straight onto the aircraft .
lindsey was checked through airport security .
her identification and orders were checked with headquarters and verified .
it was easy to get into a war zone and quite harder to get out again , she had learned .
when she was cleared , she was allowed to board the aircraft and join tommy .
on the flight to west germany , when tommy wasnt sleeping , they kissed and talked .
mostly talked and looked adoringly at each other .
they were under constant attention from the flight crew , so their petting was done mostly in secret .
lindsey pretended to adjust tommys blanket around his shoulders when she wanted a kiss .
he pretended to be cold when he wanted one .
all in all , it worked out pretty well .
however , it didnt fool the flight crew .
they knew they were transporting a war hero , a medal of honor and silver star awardee and his future wife .
the story of the lovers went around the aircraft quickly , so the flight crew left them pretty much alone .
tell me , lindsey , tommy asked curiously .
why the armed escort ?
you are under the protection of the president of the united states .
as a congressional medal of honor awardee you are both a war hero and a national treasure .
hence , the armed escort , she responded .
how did you get scheduled to be my escort ?
i basically ordered my c.o .
to allow me .
after all , we are going to be married .
and i was with you when you were shot .
and my c.o .
is my uncle .
so , it was really quite simple .
he loves me , she smiled shyly and blushed a beautiful pink .
i told him you saved my life by pushing me out of the way and taking the bullet yourself , she said honestly .
what choice did he have ?
youre pretty slick , he smiled .
we both know the bullet was intended to hit me in the heart .
prove it !
she interrupted .
if you hadnt pushed me out of the way , would the bullet have hit you or me ?
she challenged .
it would have hit me in the heart .
if i hadnt leaned over and pushed you .
maybe , she smiled .
but , would you swear under oath to that ?
no .
there you go then .
and here i am , she laughed .
it might have hit me , she smiled with emphasis on might .
either way , im glad it was me and not you that got hit .
see !
you are a natural hero !
and my knight in shining armor all rolled into one !
thats why im falling deeper and deeper in love with you with every passing mile .
fell in love , thats why i fell in love with you in the first place .
my angel , tommy smiled as he began to get sleepy .
lindsey smiled , then leaned over to adjust the blanket around his shoulders .
she stole a passionate kiss for her trouble .
and got busted .
he sure is a handsome devil , isnt he ?
a female major asked lindsey when she came up for air .
he sure is !
she agreed , realizing it would do no good to feign innocents .
thats why ill love him forever !
you better .
or some other lucky woman will !
i know .
excuse me while i take his vitals , the major said , showing her stethoscope and thermometer .
yes , maam , lindsey smiled , stepping back and allowing the major to step up beside tommy .
the major was very efficient .
when she finished her exam she smiled at lindsey .
hes doing perfectly , lieutenant .
youll have him around for a long time , yet .
i sure hope so , lindsey said , as she began thinking about homes , babies , station wagons and car pools , soccer practice , skinned knees and bumped heads .
i sure hope so , she repeated in a whisper to herself .
three weeks later tommy and lindsey sat side by side on a large military aircraft headed for the united states .
their first stop was andrews air force base in maryland .
from there they would have a military escort to washington , d.c. destination the white house .
the awards ceremony was set for three oclock in the afternoon , in the rose garden .
the president himself would make the presentation on behalf of the people of the united states and congress .
personally , tommy would be glad when all the fooforah was over and done with .
then , he and lindsey could get married and start their future together .
he said start , because lindsey would have to return to iraq and finish her tour of duty .
she still had a year left .
chapter 5 looking back now , five years later , tommy couldnt see what all the fuss was about .
the president was a man just like himself .
only tommy was honest , whereas , he felt the president and all his merry men were crooks , plain and simple .
they used their positions to legally rob the very people they had sworn to protect , the american people , then , blamed it on the terrorists .
plus , they had gotten his angel killed .
and for that they had to pay .
and pay dearly they would , too .
he had seen to that with the last keystroke he had made on the computer keyboard .
the virus he had sent on its way fifteen minutes ago was unstoppable .
no one but judge andrew ryan and himself knew of its existence .
therefore , no one could find it and stop it .
it is , in fact , the perfect mystery virus , he thought as he heard the police cars outside pull to a screeching halt in front of his house .
the game was afoot !
thirty seconds later the doorbell rang .
the cops had arrived .
it was time to go .
he got up and walked to the door .
can i help you , officer ?
he asked with a surprised look on his face , as he pulled the door open .
looking at the two large bull cops the judge had sent tommy smiled inwardly .
they were both six feet four inches tall and weighed in at approximately two hundred and fifty pounds .
mister tommy mistri ?
one of the officers asked .
yes ?
mister mistri i have a warrant for your arrest on a charge of first degree assault .
youll have to come with me , sir .
very well , tommy smiled .
may i secure my home , first ?
i live alone .
well have to accompany you , sir , the officer said opening the storm door and basically forcing his way inside .
he was closely followed by his partner .
come into my parlor said the spider to the fly , tommy thought .
but said , that will be fine .
it wont take but a minute .
i just have to turn on the alarm system and shut down my computer , he added over his shoulder as he entered the livingroom .
i will need the alarm system password .
a search warrant may be sworn out .
in that case i will give the codeword to the server of the search warrant , tommy said as neutrally as he could .
he laughed inside as the cops fell deeper into his trap .
judge ryan had told him these two had a history of police brutality against lone suspects , then claimed they resisted arrest .
tommy had every intention of balancing the scales of justice for all their victims .
very well .
i have to read you your miranda rights , the second officer said , glancing at his partner .
i know them .
save your breath .
you will need to sign a waiver of those rights before we get to the county jail .
im not waiving them .
im relieving you of the burden of having to read them to me .
sir , were trying to be civil with you here .
if you want to play rough we can .
officer , you dont know what playing rough is , tommy said , flipping the power switch on the computer off and turning on the security cameras , both inside and out .
are you threatening me ?
no , im promising you .
well see , smartass !
the first officer stated , slowly pulling a night stick from his utility belt .
the second officer pulled his nightstick as well .
he approached tommy from behind and began to slap the stick into the palm of his left hand .
theyre so easily provoked , tommy told himself .
so gullible , he added .
they walk into a trap with their eyes wide open .
not very smart , not knowing who their opponent is .
if you attempt to hit me with that stick , officer .
im going to shove it up your ass , tommy said , thinking of the video and audio recording that would come out of this encounter .
we got us a real bad actor here , sam !
hes a pussy , bill .
says he gon na stick ter up my ass !
id like to see that !
he laughed .
all you have to do is try and hit me with it and ill make your wish come true !
tommy smiled , his hands crossed in front of him , one hand holding his other wrist in a non aggressive pose .
sam swung his nightstick savagely at tommy .
tommy caught it as he rolled away from the impact .
he turned , rolled and twisted the stick out of sams grip and then smacked him solidly on the shin with it .
it sounded as if he had hit a baseball out of the park .
sam roared with pain .
tommy brought the stick down in the back of sams knee and he buckled to the floor clutching his shin and knee with both hands , bellowing like a bull buffalo with arrows stuck in his rump .
tommy saw bill coming for him out of his peripheral vision as sam was going down .
his nightstick was arcing over his shoulder aiming for tommys head .
tommy caught it with the stick he now had and jerked it from bills hand .
he reversed his swing and struck bill in the side of the head .
he fell like a fallen pine .
at the same time , sam was trying to get up .
tommy whacked him on the knee with the stick again .
again sam bellowed in pain .
well , sam , tommy smiled .
im a man of my word and your wish is going to come true !
he said , kneeling down and placing his knee in the middle of sams back .
he ripped the seat of sams pants open and then his boxers .
he then began to shove the nightstick up sams ass .
oh , please , sam begged .
dont do that to me !
please !
sorry sam .
ive never made a promise that i didnt keep .
plus , i just hate bully cops .
especially big mean sons of bitches like you and this piece of shit , here !
tommy felt the cops anus give and the stick began to slide in deep .
his buttocks clamped tight around it , but still it slid in deeper .
sam began to bellow like a bull giving up his nuts to castration .
oh god , please mister !
youre tearing me up something fierce inside !
please stop !
please !
sam bellowed , then screamed like a girl and began to cry .
tommy felt no remorse after what he had been through in iraq .
he shoved the stick deeper .
sam passed out .
tommy stopped and stood up .
he left the stick in sam , then turned to bill .
he knelt down and ripped the seat of his pants and boxers .
he grabbed the stick and shoved it up his ass about ten inches .
behind him the door crashed open and a voice screamed , freeze !
tommy stopped and raised his hands over his head .
just fulfilling their wishes , officer , tommy smiled , when he saw the look of awe cross the young officers face .
if you move at all , ill blow your ass away !
the cop said seriously .
now , lay face down on the floor and place your hands behind your back !
he added pointing his shaking gun in the direction of tommys chest head and groin .
tommy complied , thinking , mission accomplished .
he smiled as he lay on the floor and placed his hands in the small of his back just as cops began to flood through the front door like flood waters .
several of the cops laughed and shook their heads at the sight of the two meanest cops on the force with their nightsticks stuck up their asses .
others took it very serious , knowing it could be them lying there .
they beat tommy with their nightsticks and kicked him repeatedly in retaliation .
through it all tommy endured , knowing the video and audio recorders were catching every bit of the action in digital color and surround sound .
after ten minutes of uncontrolled abuse , tommy was dragged out of the house and placed in a squad car .
bill and sam had been taken by ambulance to the hospital for treatment and removal of their nightsticks .
tommy was taken straight to the county jail and thrown into a cell without treatment or medical attention .
he was the enemy .
an hour later he was dragged out of the cell , fingerprinted and photographed , then charged with sexual assault on a police officer , two counts .
resisting arrest and assault on a police officer , eight counts .
he was looking at twenty years in prison .
he wasnt concerned , everything had already been arranged with judge ryan .
governor wendell cartwright looked around his new office .
he still found it hard to believe he had been elected governor in such a short time .
hed had a good campaign manager and his running mate had been involved in the political scene for years .
his reputation had helped pave the way to the governors office .
john taylor had a sterling reputation as a state senator and congressman .
he had served six terms in washington , d.c. representing the interests of the people of oklahoma .
they all loved and admired his honesty and homespun , will rogers like personality and character .
when he announced to the people that he would be backing wendell cartwright , well , they just naturally jumped on the bandwagon with him .
the election had been a landslide .
the cartwright taylor ticket had garnered ninety seven percent of the vote and as a result , the former blackhawk pilot was now in the pilots seat in the most powerful office in the state of oklahoma .
when he heard that his old pilot , major andrew ryan was practicing law in tulsa he had called to offer him a judges bench in tahlequah .
ryan had accepted .
so , when his secretary informed him that judge ryan was on the phone , he had taken the call without hesitation .
he knew it had to be important .
he had no idea just how important until he heard the judge out .
he had jumped aboard without hesitation .
now , two weeks later , he still believed he had done the right thing .
the man he owed his life to needed his assistance and he had given it , no questions asked .
without tommy lesade , he would have no life , much less a governors seat to sit in .
now , the judge was back on the line with more news .
he assumed that lesade had been sentenced and it was time to start the ball rolling from his end .
he mentally reviewed their last conversation as if it were yesterday .
judge ryan , how you doin ?
wendell asked , pleasantly .
im fine , governor .
how bout yourself ?
fine , fine .
never a dull moment , he answered .
hows becky and the kids ?
oh , theyre fine .
the kids are growing like weeds .
beckys due any day with number four .
were hoping its a boy , of course .
well , good luck , ryan replied good naturedly .
listen governor , need a favor .
it concerns tommy lesade .
remember him ?
how could i ever forget the man who saved my life !
whatever it is , the answer is yes !
how about i fly up there so we can discuss it in private .
its a very serious matter that i dont feel needs to be put over the wire .
sure , judge .
my door is always open to you .
day or night .
seven days a week .
you show up , youre in .
anytime , the governor assured him seriously .
how about four thirty , five oclock tomorrow afternoon ?
thatll be fine , judge .
ill tell sandy to clear my appointments after four oclock so well have plenty of time to talk .
alright ?
thats fine .
i appreciate it governor .
no problem , the governor assured him .
give becky and the kids my love .
tell them ill see them tomorrow .
alright , judge goodbye .
goodbye .
as wendell remembered the conversation and the meeting of the day following , he still felt sure he was doing the right thing .
tommy lesade , now mistri , had saved his and ryans life and in the end had lost his own , in a matter of speaking .
so , anything he could do , he would .
governor , mister chambers is here for for his appointment , sandys sexy , bourbon and smoke voice , as he thought of it , said over the intercom .
very well , show him in , the governor replied with a sense of pending revenge .
when john chambers was seated and sipping his coffee , governor cartwright asked him point blank , with no hesitation .
john do you want to be the warden at connors ?
id like to some day be warden somewhere .
it doesnt have to be connors , he replied after considering the question for a second .
you know bills retiring ?
wendell said , referring to william sterling .
the current warden of connors .
yes sir , next month .
correct , the governor agreed .
now , i can place you in his position .
but , i need a favor in return .
name it , chambers said , sipping his coffee thoughtfully , his expression never betraying the hate he felt for the man behind the desk .
here before long a very good , personal friend of mine is going to be sent to connors .
his name is tommy mistri .
he will need some , shall we say , accommodations , so to speak .
can you agree to that ?
i dont see why not .
as long as it isnt illegal .
oh , i doubt anything illegal will be needed .
but , let me tell you about tommy mistri ... for the next hour wendell told him an abbreviated version of the story .
he also outlined the accommodations he would be required to provide during tommys stay in the custody of the state of oklahoma .
now , if you can agree to what ive said .
i can agree to put you in the wardens chair .
do we have a deal ?
i dont see why not , governor .
i am concerned , though , that this man may kill or injure one of my staff .
oh , he will .
never doubt that .
tommy is the deadliest man ive ever known with his hands , or his feet !
but , i also know that he only kills in self defense , or the defense of his friends .
if you allow your officers or staff to provoke him , they are asking for trouble .
so , if they dont bother him , he wont bother them .
ill guarantee it .
well governor , ill take your word on that .
so , i guess we have a deal .
good .
tommy will be there in a couple of months or so .
i was informed earlier that he has been sentenced , but has been released to tie up some loose ends in his personal life .
so , im counting on you to take care of him for me .
i wont forget it , wendell said , offering his hand across the desk .
i will , governor , chambers promised as he shook hands .
tommy will be in good hands .
i promise , he added seriously , feeling as if he were shaking hands with a snake .
or a dead fish .
okay warden , take care of yourself , wendell said with a sincere politicians smile , thinking about how he would love to tear the bastards head off and shit down his neck .
you too , governor , chambers said , then stood , walked to the door and left the office .
when chambers left , cartwright sat behind his desk recalling tommy lesade .
as his memories surfaced a smile spread across his face remembering the young captain on the day the sniper had saved his and ryans life .
tommy stood at attention before judge ryan .
he had never lost his military bearing .
his attorney stood beside him shifting restlessly .
mister mistri , in as much as the jury has found you guilty of first degree assault , do you have anything to say in your defense that may sway this court into imposing a lesser sentence than it otherwise will ?
your honor , tommy said gravely .
it is with great regret that i find myself standing before this court this morning .
i have always tried to conduct myself honorably .
in every situation i have ever found myself , i have tried to bear in mind my abilities and control my impulses .
mister morgan however , and i do sincerely regret his comatose state , would not let the matter , as presented before the court in detail , rest .
he continuously provoked my patience by slashing the tires on my vehicle , painting anti war slogans on my vehicle , residence and driveway .
and finally , made the mistake of attempting to attack me with a louisville slugger , with the full intention of causing me serious and permanent bodily injury .
i , as any citizen would have , defended myself to the best of my ability .
and again , i do sincerely regret the mans current state .
if this court sees fit to take into consideration all the evidence presented concerning my military career , my private life and my business dealings with the public , i believe this court may better serve the public by suspending any sentence imposed upon me .
that is all your honor , tommy concluded , repeating verbatim what he , the governor and judge ryan had agreed upon two weeks earlier .
judge ryan listened intently and solemnly to every word tommy said , as agreed .
then shifting to one side slightly and straightening his body to sit erect , he shuffled the papers around on his bench in deep thought .
or so it appeared to the public .
mister mistri , this court appreciates your forthrightness and candor in this grave matter before the court .
however , assault that leaves another human being in a vegetative state can hardly be taken lightly , even if by accident . ''
this court would assume that someone with your training and ability could have chosen another , less violent , way of handling your problem with mister morgan .
that is what the police are for ...
i aint no rat !
tommy interrupted angrily .
the police would be the last people on earth i would call for assistance ... order , mister mistri .
or ill find you in contempt !
judge ryan shouted .
then continued after a few seconds of silence .
he and tommy stared defiantly into each others eyes .
then ryan continued , you chose to leave the police out of this equation and chose to handle it on your own .
as a result of your decision a man lies in a comatose state and may never recover .
even if it was accidental , as you claim , he is no less clinging to life by a thread .
and should he die as a result of this assault , you shall be changed with his murder .
therefore the court sees no alternative , if it is to encourage respect for the law and deterrence against citizens taking the law into their own hands , but to sentence you to the maximum allowable by law .
therefore , this court sentences you mister mistri , to serve five years in the department of corrections for the state of oklahoma at mcalester and recommend that you serve your sentence at the connors unit .
you are hereby remanded to the sheriffs office of cherokee county to await transportation to that facility at their convenience .
now , judge ryan continued , looking at some other papers .
we have some other business to conclude here today concerning mister mistris arrest .
is the court to assume that the parties involved have reached a mutual agreement ?
we have , your honor , the district attorney said as he stood up behind the prosecutors table .
would you care to enlighten the court as to the terms of this mutual agreement , mister prosecutor ?
ryan asked sarcastically , as if he knew in advance that tommy was going to get the short end of the stick , again .
your honor , the prosecutor said .
in light of a certain video tape recording , the sheriffs office and the prosecutors office feel that a settlement of ... ten thousand dollars ...
objection , your honor !
tommy defense counsel erupted , jumping angrily to his feet .
ten thousand dollars was not the agreed upon settlement !
he added in exasperated disbelief .
what do you believe it to be , mister bass ?
ryan asked .
your honor , the agreed upon settlement was set at seventy five thousand dollars , not a paltry ten !
thats ridiculous considering the near fatal beating my client endured , while being handcuffed and prone on the floor , at the hands of the sheriffs deputies !
mister prosecutor , is that amount correct ?
ryan asked .
originally , your honor .
but , we have since been informed that the sheriffs department can only afford ten thousand dollars .
ryan studied the prosecutor in total disbelief that he would try such a stunt in his courtroom before he said , mister prosecutor , in my courtroom i seek only two things the truth and justice .
everything else is to be kept outside these four walls .
i will not tolerate misconduct by officers of the court .
i will not tolerate trickery or deception to any degree .
it will absolutely not be tolerated !
i will take a fifteen minute recess and review this tape you mentioned .
i will allow two people from the defense and two people from the prosecution to view it with me .
among the five viewers we will decide the settlement sort of an arbitration committee .
our decision will be final , beyond appeal .
now , pick two people , yourselves excluded .
defense , pick two , yourselves excluded , and we will be back in fifteen minutes or so .
there was a few minutes of confused chaos as their representatives were chosen .
their elected representatives gathered in a group before the bench .
they looked up at the judge expectantly .
gentlemen and lady , please join me in my chambers , ryan said , as he rose , turned and in a swirl of black silk robes entered his chambers .
the four people chosen to join him followed .
the courtroom remained semi silent for the next fifteen minutes .
the only sounds above the air conditioning blowers was whispered conversation and the rustle of papers .
it was almost as if a time bomb was ticking away the seconds one by one .
most of the conversations were not about the case at bar .
exactly twenty five minutes later the door of the judges chambers opened and the five people filed out .
the judge took his seat and the four others resumed their seats .
judge ryan cleared his throat and began , after reviewing the tape in question .
we find that at all times mister mistri conducted himself with both courtesy and respect toward the deputies .
we also concluded that he was both candid and honest with them .
we further found that the officers in question provoked the incident in a bullying manner with both threatened and implied aggression .
furthermore , after the initial incident was concluded and mister mistri was on the floor and handcuffed , and in custody , other officers from the sheriffs department launched an additional attack on mister mistri .
this assault was a direct violation of mister mistris civil and several constitutional rights as well , and will not go unpunished .
therefore , we concluded that in the interests of justice and to deter future repeat performances by deputies of the sheriffs department , an award of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars is adequate .
there is no appeal , as per our agreement .
and the funds shall be transferred to mister mistri by close of business today .
failure to satisfy this order will attach an additional ten thousand dollars a day for each day this award goes unsettled .
this court is in recess until nine oclock tomorrow morning .
court adjourned !
ryan said , as he stood , whacked his gavel on the bench and then turned to enter his chambers .
it was one oclock in the afternoon .
by three oclock that afternoon one hundred and fifty thousand dollars had been transferred into tommys bank account , just down the street .
judge ryan gave explicit orders to the sheriff in person concerning tommy mistris transfer to mcalester .
the sheriff then relayed them to the deputy assigned to transport tommy to prison to wit if one hair on his body was disturbed en route to prison , then , the deputy could count on being the next prisoner to be transported in that direction .
there was no guarantee that he would make the trip in one piece !
or even three !
leave tommy mistri alone !
the entire ride to mcalester was made in silence .
tommy and the sheriffs office were no longer on speaking terms .
it was very personal .
and no one minded in the least .
that was just the way it was .
actually , the way they preferred it .
tommy spent his time on the ride thinking about the past five years and the mental hell he had gone through .
the heart shattering news that his angel , lindsey , had been killed by a snipers bullet .
that bullet , unknown to the world , had started major tommy lesade , u.s.a .
ret. , on a mission of revenge , and the world would be a far different place when the debts were paid and the dust settled .
colonel austin lakes email informing him that , quote no such secret mission had ever been authorized by the u.s. government , unquote .
and that cramer had disappeared .
assumed killed , or captured and then killed .
lindsey tremmel had been investigating .
general hawk had retired and gone back to the states .
reportedly living large in malibu .
the unit had suffered heavy losses .
no old timers left , just new recruits .
hope youve recovered .
stay in touch .
take care .
later emails confirmed all his worse fears .
lindsey had been killed by a nato round 5.56mm .
cramer had been seen in pakistan .
hawk a billionaire never on military retirement .
tommy had started his own clandestine investigation on hawk .
he figured there was only one way a one star general could become a billionaire overnight steal it !
his investigation had led him through a world wide web investigation .
it seemed hawk was getting millions from over two hundred foreign banks in which he held accounts .
tommy had then set about writing a software program to back track all the banking transactions for the past two years on hawk .
he had been amazed that they had all began their journey in pakistan and from one single account held by a corporation called clean sweep .
the name of the mission he was sent on .
learning this tommy had then began writing his program to sweep clean clean sweep and general hawk .
thus , taking their ill gotten gains as retribution for them taking his angel , his career and his peace of mind .
he had kept judge ryan fully informed of his discoveries and the judge had helped him design a fool proof alibi for himself .
if he was in prison at the time he could have had nothing to do with the disappearance of hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign banks , no matter what the investigation discovered in the end .
tommy did not tell the judge about the other features of the program .
such as , it would install back doors in every major government computer system in the world , undetected .
it repaired its infiltration as it entered .
it did not disturb , in any way , the existing programs and it would lay dormant until the last word of the code was entered , that no one on earth could decode except him .
and why , after all the hard work he had invested , would he want to do that ?
now , he had to figure a way onto a web connected computer in prison , in less than one year .
it would be a daunting task as far as he knew .
prisoners were not allowed anywhere close to online computers .
it was true some prisons had computer programs for prisoners .
but , were they connected ?
he didnt know .
but , he would soon find out .
the slowing and breaking of the car brought him back to the present .
they had arrived at the state prison in mcalester .
he assumed it was mcalester .
it was hard to tell , they were still out in the countryside , not in the town per se .
in the distance up the road they traveled , he saw the razor wire strewn fences and knew that he was about to enter a totally foreign world .
he was mentally prepared for what he was about to face .
he hoped .
the deputy pulled the car into an empty parking place and turned off the engine .
after getting out , he held the back door open so tommy could crawl slide over and out .
he offered no assistance .
that was fine with tommy .
tommy wore shackles around his ankles and his wrists were handcuffed to a chain that wrapped around his stomach .
the handcuffs were locked inside an aluminum black box that prevented anyone from getting a key anywhere near the handcuff locks to get them open .
without first removing the black box .
when he was out and standing on his feet , the deputy closed the door and led him to the front door of the prison .
inside he told tommy to have a seat .
tommy walked over to some chairs and took a seat .
within minutes , a prison guard was hovering over him and glaring as if tommy had spit on his wife .
what the hell you call yourself doin boy ?
the guard asked sarcastically , wallowing a cud of chewing tobacco around in his jaw .
tommy looked up at him and saw a man with a mid sixties iq and knew he was in a no win situation .
sitting down , he smiled .
sitting down , what ?
the guard sneered .
sitting down ... on a chair , officer ?
tommy replied innocently .
he was lost for words , not having a clue as to what the guard wanted or expected .
i aint no goddamn officer , boy !
he screamed at the top of his lungs .
that , right over there is a officer !
im a boss !
he added proudly .
a boss of what ?
a boss of you , boy !
what else ?
i dont know what else .
enlighten me , tommy said , grinning in amusement when he saw the bewildered look in the guards eyes .
the deputy laughed .
ill enlighten ya all right !
ill put so much light in your head , youll see in the dark , like a car !
the guard said in a menacing tone beginning to get mad .
thats easy to say , now .
im all chained down .
but , if you want to give it a shot , try it bad ass !
tommy said , as he prepared himself for the attack .
you might get lucky , boy !
tommy grinned , to provoke the guard .
he figured he may as well establish himself right off , to let everyone know where and how he stood .
the angry guard stepped forward to put momentum behind his swing .
it was exactly what tommy was counting on .
he leaned back in his chair , as if ducking the blow , then kicked out with both legs at the guards knee .
the dislocation of the knee joint sounded like a rifle shot .
it was immediately drowned out by the high pitched scream of the guard .
it was heard far and wide in the hallways of the prison .
tommy immediately crossed his legs over the guards head and neck and pulled the chain tight .
he pulled the guard back toward him as the front lobby began to fill with many more guards from inside the prison .
boy , you better turn him aloose !
er ill chop yer laigs off at the goddamn knee !
one guard threatened .
by the time you lift your foot to take your first step hell be dead , tommy said seriously , glancing at the guard trying to get his fingers under the chain around his neck .
he was failing miserably .
so , heres what i suggest .
the deputy takes my cuffs and chain off .
then , he unlocks one of the leg irons and locks it back around the other one .
then , he takes the other one off .
ill not attempt to escape out the door , because the fight will be fair then .
you all , against me .
what do you say ?
boy , well kill you !
one guard said seriously .
no , well just establish who the boys are and who the men are here .
deputy , turn that bitch aloose so we kin kick his ass proper !
i dont advise that , gentlemen , the deputy smiled .
hes a very dangerous man .
we didnt ask for your advise .
we asked you to turn him aloose .
so turn im aloose !
one demanded .
okay , the deputy laughed , shaking his head in disbelief .
but , dont say later that you werent warned , the deputy said , as he began to unfasten the cuffs , belly chain and leg irons .
when he finished he stepped back and tommy pushed the injured guard away , then stood up to face the rest of them .
they wasted no time pressing the attack en masse .
it was basically a free for all .
the guards had no discipline and swung wide and wild .
it was obvious they had had no formal training .
when the head warden entered and yelled , stop !
at the top of his voice , everyone standing froze .
those who froze were tommy and three guards .
six others lay on the floor moaning , rolling back and forth , nursing broken bones or dislocated joints .
what in the world is going on in here ?
the warden continued , seeing he had everyones attention .
he looked at each person in turn , expecting an answer .
no one spoke .
i asked a question !
he yelled .
by god , i expect an answer and somebody better start talking , fast !
well , warden , it was like this , one of the standing guards began to explain .
when he finished , the warden just shook his head in bewilderment .
i can not believe that eight of you could not subdue one single man .
something is wrong with this picture and i intend to change it !
who are you ?
he added , looking over at tommy .
my name is tommy mistri .
im here to serve a five year sentence for first degree assault .
well , youll not be serving it here .
we cant have this type of grudge left to fester .
well find you dead some morning and that will remain a mystery !
so , come in my office and well figure it out , the warden said to tommy , then turned and walked away .
tommy smiled at the guards who leered at him as he passed .
boys , he said softly to them as he went down the hallway to join the warden .
when tommy entered the wardens office he was invited to sit down , and then offered coffee or soda .
thank you warden , but i only drink water .
then , water it shall be , mister mistri , the warden said , smiling .
you seem to have some friends in high places , i hear , he continued , as he poured ice water into a glass and handed it to his guest .
a few , i suppose , tommy replied .
it was requested of me by the governor to assign you to the connors unit , in hominy .
any particular reason you care to share with me ?
he asked , refilling the glass for tommy , who had drank it down as if he were dying of thirst .
i have no idea why he would make such a request .
does he often request such special assignments ?
never .
but , he is a new governor .
and new governors are known for making changes to the status quo for the first year or so , he stated knowingly , handing the glass back to tommy .
usually for no particular reason , he continued .
maybe just to make a mark of their passing , he added , thoughtfully .
perhaps , tommy agreed .
wardens get in a rut .
things stay the same because wardens stay put .
governors , however seem to never be satisfied .
they always want to move higher , making their own improvements to a machine that was working fine before their arrival and will be working fine when theyre gone to their higher station in life .
perhaps the senate .
or congress .
occasionally even the white house .
he went on shaking his head from side to side as if in bewilderment .
the wardens observations required no answers or comment from him , so tommy remained quiet and listened respectfully .
i would advise you , mister mistri , to watch your step while you are in our care and custody .
prison staff have long , unforgiving memories .
so , you cant expect to always beat the system .
sure , you may win for a while , but some night , while youre fast asleep in bed , youll have a midnight visitor or three .
theyll be as quiet as a mouse , but with the full intention of killing you .
and they will , because eventually , you will have to sleep .
youre not the only dangerous person in our custody , mister mistri , as you will soon learn .
even at the connors unit , there are some very deadly men .
so , just stay out of sight and you will remain out of mind , as the old saying goes .
mind your own business .
do your own time .
avoid the bad people like the plague and the three deadly sins of prison drugs , gambling and homosexuals and you should be alright .
but , there are those who will feel it necessary to see what you are made of .
to test you .
to try you .
from my observations , thus far , they are in for a bit of enlightenment about the degree of resolve of some men .
so , when you are challenged in the least , handle it quickly and decisively .
never back down or make excuses .
if you do , the predators will be on you like sharks on chum .
that concludes my advice to you , mister mistri , the warden smiled fatherly .
except , always , and i do mean always , be right .
have witnesses , or no witnesses .
have no close friends .
they will sell you out instantly for their own gain .
if you have secrets , keep them .
secrets are a liability in places such as these .
any questions ?
concerns ?
anything like that ?
no , sir .
i do appreciate your advice and counsel , and your concern for my well being , though .
i appreciate honesty and humanity in a person of authority .
such as yourself , tommy said sincerely .
thank you , sir .
i know you are a well educated man .
military bearing .
officer , would be my guess .
special forces , perhaps .
highly motivated .
dedicated .
loyal .
honest .
independent .
trustworthy .
did i leave anything out ?
he smiled , ruefully .
deadly , extremely .
yes , yes .
i forgot deadly .
very deadly .
it is amazing you can come to such accurate conclusions about me in such a short period of time , tommy said .
ive spent my life around men of all stripe .
both good and bad .
mostly bad .
one learns if one pays attention .
men wear their credentials on their sleeve , like a badge of honor .
which they are in some respects .
most men have to brag .
they are nothing special .
those who are quiet , though .
they are the special ones .
such as yourself .
for example , the deadly creatures of the earth are quiet and stealthy .
their prey , on the other hand , is loud , careless and draws attention .
the hunters have their eyes in the front of their face , like man .
the prey ?
their eyes are on the sides , for a wide angle field of vision .
they need every advantage they can get when dealing with the truly dangerous and deadly , the warden concluded , then changed the subject .
well , sir , he said .
i must make arrangements for your transport to the connors unit .
it is a very long ride .
perhaps i will drive you myself .
yes , perhaps i will .
in fact , i will !
i enjoy your company and would like to know you better .
you intrigue me , for one thing , mister mistri .
for another , i enjoy being around educated , self contained men , such as yourself .
would you mind if i drive you ?
no , of course you wouldnt .
of course , if you should try and escape , i will kill you .
be assured of that .
i will not attempt escape , sir .
you have my word of honor on that .
good , then , we wont need chains and such .
i hate chaining men like animals .
but , some men must be chained , though .
they have no self control .
make no mistake about that .
but , you are not such a man as those , mister mistri .
i sense it ... well , then .
thats settled .
shall we go ?
we have a long drive ahead of us .
of course , sir , at your convenience , tommy said , as he stood and set the glass on the edge of the desk on a coaster .
he hated that the small talk had come to an end .
he had enjoyed listening to the old man ramble on .
he hoped he would continue on the ride to the connors unit .
tommys wish was fulfilled .
the slim , grey haired old man , talked non stop .
his slate blue eyes sparkled with a touch of madness , perhaps .
or amusement , as he regaled tommy with stories of his life , his loves , his adventures , regrets , sorrows and accomplishments .
by the time they arrived at the connors unit , tommy felt as if he had known the old warden his entire life like one would know a favorite grandfather , or uncle .
tommy sat in the reception area of the prison without chains or shackles while the old warden talked to warden chambers , the new warden of the connors unit for nearly an hour .
when they came out , chambers nearly panicked seeing one of his prisoners sitting unfettered and unguarded in the lobby of his prison .
ive filled warden chambers in on you , tommy .
he assures me you are safe and in good hands here .
he has also heard from the governor concerning your status .
so , you should be fine .
is there anything you need before i leave , son ?
he asked sincerely , his old eyes glimmering wetly .
yes , sir , if you dont mind , tommy responded .
and that would be ?
your name , sir .
youve never told me your name .
well , ill be damned !
i havent , have i ?
no , sir .
its james ketchum , tommy , he replied offering his hand .
thank you , sir .
ill never forget your kindness , he promised , taking the mans hand in both of his and shaking it warmly .
tommy was sad to see warden ketchum leave once he had officially turned custody over to warden chambers .
but , his leaving was inevitable and tommy watched him go in silence .
chapter 6 follow me , mister mistri , warden chambers said as he turned and started down a long hallway .
tommy followed as directed .
have a seat , chambers said when tommy came into the office .
he sat behind his desk and watched as tommy took an empty chair in front of his desk .
tommy sat and began to study the middle aged man with salt and pepper hair , black moustache , brown eyes , a ruddy complexion and a build like a linebacker .
first off , lets get one thing straight .
the governor does not run this prison .
i do , chambers said sternly , studying tommy .
i make the decisions about who does what .
and when they do it , inside these fences .
i decide who gets what privileges and when they get them .
not the governor .
i , and i alone , decide whether your time here is easy or hard .
do we understand each other , mister mistri ?
absolutely , warden , tommy replied .
therefore , i have decided that you will be persona non grata inside this institution , until , and not before , you prove to me that you deserve special treatment .
i have informed my staff that they are not to interact with you in any way .
they will not speak to you , assist you , or hamper you .
you will be as a ghost .
a mystery man , if you will , to all inmates and staff alike .
any staff member who breaks these simple rules will be terminated post haste .
now , you , you will be given free rein to do what you like .
basically , go where you are allowed to go , interact with the inmates here who allow you to .
it will be up to you to defend yourself the best way you can , against however many come against you .
my staff will not interfere .
you shall quickly sink or swim on your own .
is that understood , mister mistri ?
yes , sir , warden , tommy answered calmly , trying to figure out the wardens game .
so far , it was beyond him .
you will be allowed a single cell .
it will be up to you to defend and protect it .
in other words , you will keep other aggressive inmates out who believe they deserve it more .
you will keep your private possessions in it .
my staff will not interfere in your defense of your turf .
if you lose it , that will mean you are not tough enough to defend it and therefore , do not deserve it .
now , if we understand each other , you are free to go to population and face whatever awaits you , whether good or ill , chambers concluded with a knowing smile , as if he had sentenced tommy to death .
he stood and pointed to the door .
he didnt offer to shake tommys hand .
one question , if i may , warden ?
tommy asked as he stood up from the chair and looked chambers in the eyes .
go ahead , chambers replied as if a great imposition had been placed on him .
why are you being so careless and cruel to someone you dont know ?
ive never seen , spoken or met you before today and you seem to wish me dead .
why ?
simple , chambers replied smugly .
i do not like privilege .
i do not like soldiers .
i do not like killers in war or peace .
i do not care about you or your welfare here .
my job is to keep you here .
that is all .
i will not endanger the lives or health of my staff to protect you .
they are all law abiding citizens , far and beyond above you .
and that , mister mistri is why i do not care if you live or die here .
you are the scum of the earth , mister mistri , and as such , so shall you be treated , chambers stated calmly and seriously , as if he believed each and every word he had spoken .
he stepped around his desk and stood in front of tommy .
he looked up into tommys eyes and smiled .
any comment ?
he asked , grinning fearlessly .
not according to samuel clemmons , tommy said , looking into the wardens glassy brown eyes .
samuel clemmons ?
mark twain ?
tommy queried .
what does he have to do with this ?
mark twain said that if one wished to see the true scum of the earth , all one had to do was be at any american prison at shift change , he laughed , softly .
and what do you say , mister mistri ?
im beginning to agree with mister twain , warden .
get out of my office , smart ass !
before i throw you out !
warden , you are free to try .
as is anyone , tommy smiled in invitation , standing his ground .
get out !
chambers yelled loudly .
tommy stared him in the eyes for a moment longer .
then , realizing the warden wasnt going to attempt to make good on his promise and throw him out , he turned away and walked slowly out of the office .
he slammed the door in contempt as he left .
then laughed out loud as he walked down the hallway to the reception area .
as he entered , a door over to his left buzzed loudly .
he looked at the guard at the reception desk to his right .
the guard pointed to the door , then buzzed it again .
tommy walked to the door and the guard buzzed it again when he took the handle and pushed his way through .
he released the door and it closed behind him .
he stood in what appeared to be a visiting room .
if he continued through the door to his right he would go outside to the visiting yard .
a guard waved him straight through past several vending machines and held a door open to his right .
he noticed that several inmates were involved in visits .
he paid them no mind and continued toward the guard who was holding the door for him .
he stepped through and into a long hallway that ran both left and right .
a small guard was coming toward him they watched each other as he came closer .
mistri ?
he asked when he was within about ten feet .
tommy smiled at the short , slim , red headed , green eyed guard and said , yes .
im officer clark i will be your escort for today .
i will assist you in getting settled in here and show you around .
alright , tommy said , thinking the guard was small and feminine enough , not to mention pretty enough , to be a woman .
as he led the way down the hall , tommy thought his walk was also feminine enough for a woman .
tommy guessed the guard was a flaming homosexual .
oh well , he thought , to each his own .
musta been a genetic mix up somewhere along the line .
follow me .
i will get you in processed , clothing and show you to your quarters , however temporary they may be .
the warden said that staff members were not to speak to me at all on pain of instant termination , he said walking beside the feminine guard .
i dont know sign language or read minds good enough to carry on a conversation with you .
if you do , that is .
which i doubt very seriously .
i assume you are neither ?
no , tommy smiled .
then we must vocalize , even if he fires me .
which he would quickly learn was a major mistake !
so , i will talk and you will listen .
i will lead and you will follow .
you will get your clothing , food , rest , shower , etcetera , etcetera , in the same place every day .
the warden is just blowing off steam .
he has many enemies here .
he is what the inmates call a true blue piece of shit !
if he should come into population unescorted by at least ten or more staff , he would not leave alive .
or at least uninjured .
so , he hates everyone .
his precious staff included .
strange man , tommy replied .
the staff assumes hes gay .
or at least has some very strange sexual hang ups .
no one knows for sure .
but its suspected .
just rumors so far .
but , eyes are watching and waiting , the guard continued softly as they passed a group of eight inmates talking loud and play wrestling grab assing , as it is known inside .
as they passed the inmates tommy heard one of them say , fresh meat .
another said fish !
and someone else said something about getting some of that !
pay them no mind , clark smiled .
they are the gay brigade .
they are not who you should be concerned or connected with .
those are coming up now .
he saw another group of much rougher and meaner looking men up ahead .
they were all tattooed , muscle bound , shaved head with bandannas .
they all watched closely as tommy and clark approached .
the leader stepped out in front of tommy and crossed his arms across his massive chest .
he puffed it out , flexing his muscles .
just who the fuck are you , asshole ?
he said , as tommy stopped in front of him .
your worst nightmares come to life , tommy said looking the man directly in the eyes .
well now , aint you some bad sombitch !
the man laughed , joined by his followers , as he began to reach his arm out to push tommys shoulder .
there were three loud and very distinct pops and one loud , long , ear splitting , high pitched scream as tommy stepped back and allowed the injured man to fall to the floor .
anyone else ?
tommy asked , looking at the other men staring wide eyed at their fallen leader .
their leader lay on the floor , moaning loudly .
he rocked from side to side , gritting his teeth against the pain in his shoulder , arm and knee .
tommy and clark walked on when he decided there were no takers in the crowd of bad asses .
what did you do , besides make a deadly enemy ?
you will have to watch your back from now on !
hes a lifer and is suspected of killing four inmates since hes been locked up .
he will kill you or have you killed , clark continued seriously .
it will be a while .
hell have to heal up first .
i figure fifteen to twenty weeks should just about do it , more or less , he replied as if in no way concerned .
hell send someone .
not one of those , tommy laughed .
they done saw the elephant !
saw the what ?
clark asked .
never mind , tommy smiled .
anyway , clark continued .
hes not the worst .
we have a lot worse here .
rapists , murderers , cannibals we even have one here for narcolepsy !
you know , sex with the dead ?
gross !
clark grimaced , shaking all over like a wet dog .
000hhh000hhh !
i cant even imagine it !
he owned a funeral home !
hopefully , he will never get out , tommy said , knowing clark meant necrophilia .
hes getting out in about a month , clark said .
maybe .
oh , he will .
maybe , tommy repeated .
heres clothing issue .
well get you fixed up and get you a cell .
im sure youre tired .
i could use a shower and some rest .
showers in here .
you can shower first .
i need your sizes so they can get your clothes fixed up to fit properly .
shirt eighteen and a half , thirty six .
pants thirty four thirty eight .
weight two twenty .
shoe size ten and a half double d .
anything else ?
height ?
six six .
thats about what i figured , clark smiled , looking him up and down .
jesus h. christ !
clark said , watching tommy remove his shirt .
i work out , tommy explained .
damn , i guess !
clark said , admiring tommys physique with envy .
what i wouldnt give to be put together like that !
he added as tommy dropped his pants , then started removing his boots .
just work out religiously .
eat right .
and have a good trainer .
you must have had the best of all three .
but it would take a lot more than that for me .
i did .
me .
tommy said , stepping into the shower .
what about the scars ?
iraq , was all he said .
must have been a bitch !
it was , tommy replied , as his mind began to flash memories hed rather not remember .
he turned them off and finished his shower as quickly as he could .
when he stepped out of the shower clark stood with a towel ready .
his eyes lingered on tommys body and penis .
are you gay ?
tommy asked innocently as he dried off .
looking at you , i think i may be , he replied sexily .
are you ?
no , tommy answered simply .
if you change your mind , let me know , okay ?
i will , tommy smiled , knowing he never would .
if you need anything , let me know .
ill do it .
i promise .
i give real good head and like it in the ass , he smiled .
never , ever , make a promise you cant or wont keep !
tommy said .
lesson number one , you are only as good as your word , he added thinking clark may be his ticket to the front office computer .
he began to dress .
the clothing seemed to fit him correctly .
he began to stretch and then did a couple of high kicks to insure he had freedom of movement .
he was satisfied with the inseam of the pants .
he sat down and started putting on his boots .
he watched clarks feet as he tied the laces one could never trust anyone right off .
oh , trust me .
ill keep my promise about the head , ass , anything you want .
anything !
he said emphasizing the anything .
just to serve you and please you would be an honor and pleasure .
tommy couldnt believe he was getting sexually aroused .
looks like my magic is working , clark laughed , looking at tommys crotch and then licked his lips .
id better get that cell , now , tommy said , walking toward the door .
right , clark laughed .
before you fall victim to my insatiable charms .
the cell was not what tommy had expected .
it was large and fairly spacious .
it had a commode , sink , mirror , a double bed and a solid steel door that could be locked from the inside as well as the outside .
on the right hand wall was a fold down table and a folding chair .
there was carpet on the floor and fluorescent lights , a closet , dresser and shower .
not bad , he thought , as he looked around and smiled .
i brought you sheets , towels , pillows , pillowcases and a supply bag , clark said from behind him .
the supply bag contains personal hygiene articles and shaving stuff , he added , as he stepped into the cell , then closed the door and locked it .
he turned and laid his burden on the fold down chair and immediately began to make the bed .
i can do that , tommy protested .
i want to do it for you , if you dont mind , that is , clark said , as he continued with his chosen task without looking up .
go ahead , then , tommy said , as he removed the pile of stuff from the chair and sat down .
if it makes you happy , tommy laughed , thinking how feminine clark was .
not what he would call flaming , just securely feminine as if he had been born to it .
it does .
very happy , he said .
i know your secret .
and what would that secret be ?
oh , no , mister .
if i tell it wont be a secret anymore , clark laughed , looking up at tommy from under her eyebrows .
tell me a secret about you and well be even , tommy smiled .
ill tell you two .
hows that for trust ?
chancy , tommy chided .
very chancy .
i doubt it .
okay , secret one .
judge ryan is my uncle .
secret two .
im a u.s .
marshal .
but , you must never tell anyone .
judge ryan got the governor to assign me here , for you .
i became intrigued with you when i saw your picture and uncle andy told me your story .
so , now you know my secrets .
do you want some supper ?
of course , tommy replied .
it had been hours since he had eaten anything .
as long as we dont have to stop there , he added .
im here to serve , obey and please you , master mistri , he smiled , lowering himself to his knees and bowing to the floor in a semblance of worship and obedience .
he laughed the whole time , as he chanted , salami , salami , bologna , over and over .
get up , clark .
that looks bad from here , tommy laughed , as he watched clark with his butt in the air .
does it turn you on ?
even though im facing the wrong way ?
clark teased as he continued to bow and chant .
not really .
im not gay , clark .
so get up and lets go eat .
i need to get organized and get some rest .
its been a long day , tommy said as politely as he could .
he didnt want to offend , embarrass , or hurt clark because of his sexual orientation .
okay , clark moaned sadly .
but , you dont know what youre missing !
he teased .
and remember , if you need anything .
anything at all .
call me .
im here for you , remember .
okay , if i need anything ill let you know .
promise ?
clark pouted , then turned and walked to the door .
promise , he said following him to the door and then out and down the hallway .
an hour later tommy was back in his cell and alone .
he locked the door behind him and lay down across the bed for a nap .
this mattress will take some getting used to he thought as he began to spin and then drifted quickly into sleep .
then , he was dreaming about clark .
lisa clark , united states marshall , walked down the long corridor .
it made her feel alone and empty when she left tommy at his door .
she wondered what he was thinking at the moment .
was he thinking of her ?
had he seen through her ruse of impersonating a man ?
she wasnt sure about that .
he hadnt acted as if he had .
he had treated her like a man in his speech and actions toward her .
so maybe she was a good actress after all .
but , maybe he was the good actor and had been playing along with her just to see how far she would go with it .
she would have revealed herself on several occasions .
in fact she nearly had .
but decided it would maybe be a bad idea this early in the game they were playing .
several guards walked toward her as she moved swiftly down the hall .
they exchanged greetings with her as they passed in a tight lipped way .
they obviously believed her to be gay .
she didnt know any of them .
although she had seen them on several occasions since she had been assigned here .
so , just said hi and went along her way toward the front of the prison .
she had to get to a phone and inform her uncle and the governor that tommy had arrived and was settled in as requested .
as she approached a cross corridor she heard intense , angry voices coming from around the corner .
she slowed slightly and moved to the opposite side of the corridor , just in case .
she stepped out into the corridor and looked to her right .
down the hallway a group of four inmates had another pinned to the wall .
one of the four , the obvious leader , slapped the pinned man in the face and pointed his finger into the mans face angrily .
the pinned inmate said something in reply and received another slap .
as she walked toward the altercation the four walked off down the hallway , leaving the slapped one alone .
what was that all about ?
she asked , walking up to him and looking at the red hand print on the side of his face .
nothing , he replied , looking at the floor .
it didnt look like nothing , she stated .
it was nothing , he insisted , then turned and walked down the hallway in the direction the other four had taken .
oh well , she thought .
handle it , then .
she went back to the cross hall and continued toward the front of the prison and her phone call .
five minutes later she was seated behind a desk in an empty office .
she dialed her uncles number and he answered on the first ring .
judge ryan , he said .
uncle andy , its lisa .
hi sweety , he said .
hows it going ?
fine .
tommy arrived today and is settled in .
we just got back from eating .
hes in his cell now .
hows he doing , being locked up ?
i doubt it bothers him very much .
i doubt that anything could bother him very much .
hes already beat the crap out of one of our worst .
he wont put up with much .
he is easily provoked when his sense of honor is put in question .
but , he must establish himself in the pecking order of the inmate population .
he must be either predator or prey .
hell be a predator , for sure .
he thinks im gay , she laughed .
im hoping hell prey on me , she giggled .
you are .
you like men , ryan laughed .
if you look at it like that , i am supposed to be a man .
ive made several passes at him already .
he turned me down flat .
then just laughed it off and said , clark , im not gay ! , like its a disease or something , she laughed , imitating tommys tone of voice as best she could .
well , dont deceive him any longer than necessary .
youll find him more and more unforgiving the longer you do .
so dont let it go very long , the judge cautioned her .
i wont , uncle andy .
but , i have to wait for the right time .
well , i still dont like the idea of you being in there .
its too dangerous !
uncle andy , you should be ashamed , she scolded .
im a u.s. marshall .
thats a dangerous job !
well , you just stay close to tommy .
hell keep you safe whether youre gay or not .
if he likes you .
and if he doesnt ?
hell let the wolves eat you , he replied seriously .
but , if he likes you , hell die for you if need be .
if he doesnt , youll die .
its as simple as that .
so , stay close to him !
ill stay close , dont worry .
ill be safe and ill call you back in a day or so .
okay ?
okay sweety .
ill talk to you then .
bye , uncle andy , she smiled .
bye .
she hung up , leaned back in the chair and relaxed for a moment , thinking about how she was going to proceed .
she glanced at her wrist watch .
it was 5 30 p.m. , time to go home .
if one could call it that .
home consisted of a one room garage apartment she had lucked into in hominy .
it was boring , dull and lonely .
but , it had a bed and a coffee pot .
it also had a small hot shower that she needed badly .
the smell of the prison had saturated her .
it smelled of fear , hate and testosterone .
she found it both repulsive and stimulating at the same time .
it actually reeked of fear , testosterone , urine and sweaty bodies all at once .
there was an undertone of sex , feces and old sperm .
she shivered when she thought about what went on back in the cell blocks .
luckily tommy wasnt there , at least .
she got up and went out the front door to her car , a late model toyota , and drove home .
it had been a long day .
tommys eyes snapped open .
he didnt move .
he lay there listening , feeling his surroundings .
he sensed trouble in the hallway outside his door .
he heard the murmur of urgent voices .
he stood up , realizing he had fallen asleep in his clothes and that he had slept soundly all night , dreaming of clark .
he was well rested .
he slid his boots on and laced them up , then stepped to the door , unlocked it and stepped out .
six big burly inmates had clark backed up against the wall .
we think youre a bitch , clark !
one of them , a young , red headed , red faced , sloppy fat , sad excuse for a human being said with a leering grin .
tommy noticed that when the slob spoke he sprayed droplets of saliva into clarks face .
his face was misted with it , but refused to blink or show fear .
tommy was impressed .
he leaned against the wall to watch and listen .
he was anxious to see how far they would take it and how much clark would take before exerting his authority .
just what the fuck you want ?
a skinny , frizzy haired , shaft of a boy asked tommy meanly .
im just watching , tommy smiled .
you just might oughta mind your own bidness , there chief , he replied , turning to face tommy .
im not interfering .
just watching and listening to six big pieces of shit flushing themselves down the toilet .
tommy smiled daringly .
hell , i guess you thank we caint handle this one little bitty bitch all by our own selfs , huh ?
he replied , missing , or ignoring the insult .
i seriously doubt it , tommy replied knowingly .
well , whats to stop us ?
he asked insulted .
me , tommy smiled , pushing away from the wall .
they all laughed and pushed each other around playfully .
and jest what you intend to do , protect this queer screw ?
the fat spitter asked incredulously and then stepped forward aggressively .
no , nothing like that , tommy replied .
i intend to disassemble you pieces of shit and then flush you down the toilet .
if he should get away in the fracas , then good for him , tommy smiled , feeling himself center and prepare mentally for battle .
why do you want to get hurt over a fag screw ?
the spitter continued , as he approached tommy and stopped two feet in front of him .
i dont like shit .
and you are shit .
so , if you dont like that , go for your gun , tommy laughed watching the spitters face turn a bright red , and then go to crimson .
bobby joe , you caint let him talk to you like at !
smash im !
one of the others said .
that was just the prompting bobby needed .
he exploded like a firecracker and was then on the floor broken and moaning just as fast .
he rolled from side to side in his pain .
next ?
tommy said , looking up at the other five .
man , billy ray .
i dont know .
i aint never seen no body move like at !
look at bobby joe .
hes hurt bad !
shut up jimmy .
this fag bitch protector jus got lucky !
everyone jump im at once !
see how lucky he is , then !
billy smiled , looking around at his pals .
they all launched at once , as an uncoordinated mass of flying arms and fists .
their assault lasted less than a minute , then they were all in the same misery land billy joe was rolling around in .
youd better call the medics , clark , or the plumbers .
whoever takes care of pieces of shit like this , tommy said , turning to his door , entering and closing it behind him .
clark stood , stunned into silence .
in her entire life , she had never seen anyone move like tommy , except in the movies where everything was choreographed .
she thought some of these guys may not live .
two of them bled profusely from their mouths and noses .
two more had broken legs and wrists .
fat boy spitter was still convulsing on the floor struggling to breathe .
clark took her radio from its holster and called for backup in a stunned wondering voice .
clark to control ?
she said , as if half asleep .
corridor four south .
six inmates down .
i need medical staff , meat wagons and orderlies to clean up the mess .
over ?
copy clark .
out , the voice from control replied instantly .
two minutes later the crowd arrived .
back up guards first , medical staff second , and orderlies third .
jesus christ !
what happened to these guys ?
they get hit by a truck ?
im not sure .
was all clark could say .
she waited around while the orderlies finished cleaning up the blood and urine .
when they left she went to tommys door and knocked .
come in , she heard tommy say .
she went in quickly and closed the door behind her .
tommy was in the shower .
clean clothes lay across the bed .
it had been made neatly , the pillows fluffed .
she locked the door behind her , stripped her clothes off and stepped into the shower .
hey , clark !
i said i wasnt interested .
get out !
tommy said , his back to her .
she brushed her breasts against his back .
are you interested now ?
she asked , placing her hands on his hips and brushing her nipples against his muscular back once again .
tommy turned around cautiously and looked her in the eyes .
then , slowly cautiously , his eyes drifted down her body .
he began to grow hard quickly .
she kissed him softly , then began to kiss down his body until she was on her knees .
she took him into her mouth and then into her throat .
her mouth hot and fluid , tommy exploded .
she moaned her dissatisfaction .
withdrew , swallowed , then stood .
that was disappointing , she whispered softly , kissing his chest .
its been a while .
a long while , he said .
but the day is young , yet , he added .
then we best get busy .
i cant stay long .
ill be missed , she said against his chest , hugging him tightly .
you sort of had me fooled .
we thought it best .
for all of us .
im sorry .
dont ever deceive me again .
i dont like deception .
i wont .
i promise , she replied , then turned and stepped out of the shower .
he followed her and began drying her body off .
he paid particular attention to what he was doing .
she had the body of a venus and he began to worship at her alter after he lay her back across the bed .
he grew rigid and time vanished for them both in wave upon wave of passion , as they fed from each other .
fifteen hundred miles away along the pacific seaboard a similar scene was being played out however , this one was homosexual in nature .
retired general hawk was being mounted by a young , well muscled and endowed , blond adonis .
hawk was bound belly up to a large coffee table .
he was gagged and blindfolded .
he wore a tuxedo collar around his neck and on each lapel was a single silver star .
young adonis was riding high in the saddle .
hawks feet bounced up and down on the floor as he power drove into the descending body astride him .
his hips bucked up and down as he mirrored his riders moves .
they were on the home stretch , heading for the finish line when hawks computer began to spit out a fax .
a chime also sounded announcing he had email .
hawk and his adonis never heard the chime they were racing across the finish line .
it would be their last race in the lap of luxury .
a bombshell had just landed and it would change both their lives forever and leave them to wonder , worry and jump at every bump in the night .
in pakistan at the clean sweep corporation headquarters , a similar fax was unrolling in the office of the president and ceo , niles cramer .
it was 3 30 a.m. and a change began to occur in the atmosphere of the building .
though no one was present to witness it , it would have devastating repercussions on the lives of the many employees around the globe .
especially on that of the president and ceo , niles cramer , who at that time , was at home snuggled tightly between two barely legal , under pakistani law , lovers .
one male , the other female , which he had adopted for his personal pleasure and entertainment .
down the hallway his head of home security was introducing two more lovers in waiting to the pleasures , wants , desires and needs of their new master .
they were proving to be reluctant learners and needed his special kind of discipline .
he heard the tone of the fax machine in the office next door as it announced and began to spit out the incoming message , even over the sobs of his reluctant and weary students .
it was his job to hear and handle the things that went bump in the night in his masters house .
his very life depended upon it .
he reluctantly left his students and went to retrieve and read his masters fax and deliver it to him .
unknown to him , it would be his last delivery .
his master hated bad news no matter whom or how it was delivered .
in tahlequah , oklahoma , judge ryan turned off his computer .
it was time for angela .
he smiled as he rose from his chair and went down the hallway to his bedroom where his wife awaited him under the sheets .
chapter 7 from the moment he received the phone call from the governor , john chambers , associate warden at the connors unit of the oklahoma department of corrections in hominy , oklahoma , knew something was up .
something big !
he also knew that he wanted to be a part of it .
after all , he figured , if the governor of the state took the time to call a nobody associate warden for a face to face interview , something big had to be in the offing .
when the governor had offered him the head warden position , with strings attached , he knew he was being offered a doorway to the inside .
he intended to step through and close it behind him .
john chambers was not a fool !
when he found out the length of the strings reached from the governor to tommy mistri he knew he was not being told the entire truth .
so , he started doing a little investigation of his own .
after all , wasnt he solely responsible for the safety and well being of tommy mistri ?
at first his investigation led nowhere .
all he had been able to discover was that the governor was close friends with the sentencing judge .
from there the trail went cold .
it seemed judge andrew ryan had been a lawyer in tulsa when the governor had been elected .
one of the governors first acts was to appoint ryan to the bench at tahlequah , the county seat of cherokee county .
why , chambers wondered .
there had to be a connection .
he began to search further and further into the two mens backgrounds .
he had hit paydirt four months into his search .
he learned they had both been blackhawk pilots in iraq .
at one point ryan was pilot and cartwright had been co pilot .
he learned that early in their tour they had been shot down by enemy fire .
he had also learned that they had been surrounded , captured and rescued by a sniper named tommy lesade .
from that point the mystery deepened .
he could find nothing of the sniper , tommy lesade , after his being awarded the congressional medal of honor and returning to tahlequah , oklahoma .
his home town .
and thats where it ended for tommy lesade .
he found absolutely nothing more on the young sniper after his return to oklahoma .
ever .
tommy lesade did not exist anywhere in any file , any government or military record .
tommy lesade had become a complete mystery .
until last night .
chambers had just finished making love to his wife .
he had rolled over onto his back and was staring at the ceiling .
suddenly , tommy lesade came to mind .
and in a flash of brilliance he had put two and two together and came up with a cool clear four .
tommy lesade was tommy mistri !
he had sat straight up in bed , thrown the blankets back and rushed to his computer terminal .
he had been setting there ever since , searching madly for one single clue that would connect the two .
there were none .
tommy mistri had been tommy mistri since the moment of his birth .
at least according to all the records he had found so far .
but , john chambers was no ones fool .
he knew he was on the right track and all he had to do was to make the right move to hook it all together .
the clock at the top of his computer screen read six forty five a.m. he had to get to the prison .
he had to be there .
he was the warden !
he reluctantly closed down the computer and then switched it off .
he would continue his search at his office .
he had to find out the truth .
who knew , he could possibly become the next governor of the state .
if he played his cards right !
tommy walked slowly , head down , around the perimeter of the prison yard .
on his head he wore a black stocking cap .
his hands were buried deep in the pockets of his waist long winter coat .
he was deep in thought .
for months now he had tried to figure a way to get into the wardens office and the computer there .
the problem was , no inmates were allowed past the visiting room unless summoned by the warden himself .
so far , it was like the warden had no idea that tommy was there .
lisa clark had been unable to help him .
there was always other staff on duty in the front offices .
her arrival there with an out of bounds inmate in tow would raise more questions than she could possibly answer .
therefore , lisa was not his ticket to the front office .
besides that , other staff were watching him very closely since the incident outside his door with bobby and his crew .
clark swore to him that she had not said anything other than she had found the inmates on the floor in the condition they were in .
so , that meant one of the six , if not all of them , had described their assailant .
of course they had conveniently left out the role they had played to bring such a calamity down upon their heads .
typical , tommy thought as he continued to walk slowly , noticing an occasional snowflake float through the air and through his frosted winter breath .
he had gotten to know the ins and outs of prison life and the typical mentality of most of the prison elements , prisoners and staff alike .
there were still several of the old convict mentality inmates on the compound and he respected them for their stand and beliefs in clinging to the old ways .
they were few and far between , but still around , because , tommy had learned , that they kept to themselves , kept their mouths shut about what they saw , heard and did .
they avoided the prison staff and they minded their own business .
he had also learned they could carry a grudge until the time was right to correct the wrong with no witnesses and only one survivor .
tommy had the old convict mentality .
he was born with it he supposed .
he avoided the prison staff , with the exception of clark .
he stayed to himself , kept his mouth shut about what he did , saw and heard .
he minded his own business and handled his problems on the spot .
most threats couldnt wait for an opportune time to settle .
he would rather face his enemies face to face .
he didnt believe in ambush .
it wasnt in his makeup .
deep in thought as he passed a set of aluminum expandable bleachers on his left , his subconscious registered slight noises and stealthy movements as he walked past the end .
the other end was about thirty feet away .
he was about ten feet from the end of the bleachers when he heard movement behind him .
he didnt look up or check his pace .
he waited to see what would happen .
hey , bitch boy !
word has it toleroun that you a punk .
been fuckin a man staff .
or tother way roun .
what up wit dat , huh ?
the low , surly voice rasped behind him in a strong cajun accent .
tommy stopped , hesitated , then turned around to face his accuser .
he was large !
not muscle big .
just physically big !
tommy estimated he was at least seven feet tall .
maybe a little taller .
he would probably weigh in at about three hundred fifty pounds , give or take twenty .
his hands were the size of kayak paddles with fingers like long fat sausages .
tommy had seen him around before , mostly in the dining room .
he had noticed that all the inmates deferred to and waited on him .
he had seen him , on several occasions , take food from weaker inmates as if by right .
his nick name was tie tie .
he was reputed to be the most deadly man on the compound and had once crushed a mans skull with one hand .
it was also said that he was insane .
what difference would it make to you ?
tommy asked in a level tone of voice .
well , little man .
i like a lil hiney hole time ta time .
especial dem hot ass red heads .
woo wee !
dem is hot as cyanne peppeah , im told you , boy !
haa !
dat him bitch you be tappin regular .
im right smack up my alley !
so , mebe i knock im in his head and drive right up ims alley !
plug im up some , good , me , eeh ?
he laughed evilly .
well tie tie , im real partial to that red head .
so , i wont be sharing him with you .
so , what do you think about that ?
huh ?
well , den , mister mistri man .
i see you heard bout tie tie , the mad cajun from lousiana bayou country , yeah ?
well , tie tie gon na break you head good .
den tie tie gon na break you bitch up good , too .
wit dis !
he grabbed his crotch shaking it at tommy .
tie tie hung like man stallion , too !
that my mad cajun friend will be real hard to do with a broken neck .
plus , being paralyzed from the neck down so nothing below your eyes works , wont it , now ?
tommy mocked , smiling .
oh , you talk so mean to tie tie .
try ta scare im up some , huh ?
now , tie tie got ta try im , tie tie said , as he began to lumber forward slowly .
he assumed a wrestling stance , arms spread wide for grappling .
tommy was not a grappler .
he would not allow tie tie to grab him .
the monster could undoubtedly hurt him seriously if he managed to get a hold on him somewhere .
it would only take one hold , then he could pull tommy into his massive arms .
it may end quickly , or not .
definitely it would be very painful .
tommy watched closely as tie tie approached .
he was waiting for the giant to get into striking distance .
when he knew the time was right , he stepped forward , slid under tie ties arms and snap kicked the monster in the knee cap .
it was like kicking a tree trunk .
tommy spun on around his leg and came to his feet behind him .
he snap kicked tie tie behind the knee .
the big mans knee buckled .
he grunted and caught himself on his right hand as he went down .
tommy did a spin kick .
his foot connected with tie ties elbow and he heard it crack like a tree branch .
as he continued to spin he stopped on his feet facing tie tie .
he then snap kicked tie tie in the kidney , then the side of the head .
tie tie reeled from the blow .
he shook his head , stood up and turned around to face tommy .
he clenched his fists as his face clouded with rage and pain .
he began to step forward .
his knee collapsed under him .
tommy attacked ruthlessly .
he snap kicked tie tie to the face , just below the nose .
tie ties head snapped back .
tommy kicked him again with a knife blade kick to the throat .
tie tie began to choke .
blood began to boil from his mouth and run down his chin .
his eyes rolled in his head and were unfocused .
tommy stepped forward , grasped tie tie by the hair above his forehead and tilted his head back .
he drove the heel of his hand into the end of the big nose with all his strength and determination , putting every ounce of his weight behind it .
he felt the bridge of the giants nose collapse and break away from the skull between his eyes and felt it enter the soft tissue of the brain .
tie tie was dead before he hit the ground .
never threaten a friend of mine , tommy whispered to the departing spirit of tie tie , the mad cajun .
loud cheering broke out around him .
he had been so intent on the battle that he had failed to notice the gathering crowd .
he turned to look around at them .
he wondered why they would cheer a mans death .
three large staff members came from the crowd .
as they approached they spread out and surrounded him .
they were not a threat .
mister mistri , sir .
you will have to come with us .
dont worry , we heard and saw the whole thing .
there wont be any charges filed .
it was self defense .
plain and simple , one of the staff members said .
tommy had seen him around before but had never heard his name .
then why do i have to go with you ?
because he may have had some friends .
i doubt it .
but , you never know in a place like this .
besides , warden chambers wants to see you in his office .
he has some questions for you .
thats good .
i need to see him , too .
tommy smiled inwardly .
the plan was coming together , maybe .
warden chambers sat behind his desk , smiling like the cat that ate the canary .
he was absolutely , so satisfied with himself , he could barely contain his joy .
he had solved the mystery of mistri !
he was a genius !
now , all he had to do was trick lesade into admitting the truth to him .
if he could do that , he would be able to figure out what this whole thing was all about .
maybe he could trick lesade into telling him that , too .
one could hope , couldnt one ?
he could hardly contain his glee as he waited for lesade to be escorted to him .
he fidgeted with everything on his desk .
rearranging it for the forth or fifth time .
he had lost count .
warden ?
the watch commander , major adams , said as he opened the door and stuck his head inside .
mistri has just killed tie tie on the yard .
rec staff verified it was self defense .
they recommended that no charges be filed .
well , well , mistri strikes again , chambers thought quickly .
mistri is on his way here , right ?
i did send for him , didnt i ?
yes , sir , warden .
they should be coming through visiting now , major adams said .
good !
you can go now , chambers said dismissively .
yes , sir , adams said , then closed the door .
three minutes later tommy appeared in the doorway to the office .
he was escorted by three custody staff and three recreation staff from the yard .
come in mister mistri .
you can go back to your duties , he told the six staff .
im perfectly safe with mister mistri .
isnt that right , tommy ?
yes , sir .
it is , tommy replied , as he stood waiting for an invitation to sit down .
he figured hed be there for a while .
no offer was forthcoming to sit and relax so he stood facing the wardens desk .
he looked the warden in the eyes .
it was a serious blunder in the military .
but , he was no longer in the service .
his country had made it abundantly clear that he was no longer needed , or wanted !
so , custom be damned !
if the warden wanted to disrespect him , the least he could do is offer his own form of contempt .
so , mister lesade , what really brings you here to our fine facility ?
chambers asked , smiling as if he had solved quantum physics .
tommy looked around him .
he saw a comfortable looking chair to his left .
he took two side steps over and sat down .
i didnt offer you to sit down !
chambers screamed , growing red in the face .
no you didnt , tommy replied , as he got comfortable .
but , since im going to be here a while , i figure i may as well be comfortable .
right ?
he continued .
so , what do you want to know ?
i suppose coffee is out of the question ?
i want to know why you are here under a false name and more than likely a false charge .
well , neither one is false .
its true lesade used to be my last name .
but , things happened several years back that forced me to change it .
so , i adopted my mothers maiden name .
its perfectly legal , i assure you .
the charge , first degree assault , is real , i assure you .
my next door neighbor slashed my vehicle tires , wrote anti war slogans on my house and driveway .
he finally attacked me with a ball bat because i wouldnt move .
he caught me at a bad time and i seriously injured him .
he is in a coma in the county hospital in tahlequah .
its all just that simple .
plus , the president doesnt want the nation to know that one of its medal of honor awardees is in prison because he cant control his temper indefinitely .
i dont believe thats the whole story .
why would the governor and the trial judge pull so many strings for you ?
you would have to ask them to know the truth .
but , i believe it may have had something to do with me saving their lives in iraq .
but , like i said .
youd have to ask them to know for sure .
bull shit !
chambers stated .
theres a lot more to it than youre telling me lesade !
theres just one way you can know for sure , tommy said , trying to bait him .
yeah , hows that ?
let me use your computer for five minutes or less and ill show you .
the warden bit like a starving bass on a hoolie popper .
he sprang from his chair and stood behind it to watch .
show me !
he said .
a satisfied smile on his face as if he had just enjoyed a full seven course meal .
tommy moved to the computer .
he took a deep breath and began to type furiously .
his fingers were a blur .
woah !
woah !
chambers yelled .
slow down .
i cant keep up with what youre doing .
warden i must enter over two hundred foreign words in less than one minute to break through the firewall .
so , if you will be patient you will get what you want .
tommy cleared the screen .
go ahead , then .
but , youd better be right !
i am .
trust me .
tommy began to type again furiously .
he had practiced this a thousand times in the past .
the time limit was his average fastest time .
if he made even one mistake hed have to start all over again .
the code had to be perfect , and in time , in order to unlock the mistri virus .
when the clock at the top of the monitor screen clicked over its sixtieth second , tommy hit the last letter of the last word of the code .
the words shattered into a billion tiny fragments and the image of a nuclear explosion filled the screen .
a mushroom cloud began to rise into a cloudless sky .
as it rose it was as if the camera pulled back into outer space and the explosion began to race around the planet .
tommy turned from the screen to face the warden .
in august of 2003 , i was a sniper in iraq .
i had very distinct qualifications that were required for a particular top secret mission .
i was led to believe the mission was sanctioned by the u.s. government through the local cia office ... , tommy began to explain to warden chambers .
then , a musical note sounded from the computer .
he spun around and typed five letters , a space , then five more letters .
on the screen in capitols was clean sweep .
another musical note sounded , this one an octave higher .
tommy typed six letters , a space , then five more .
on the screen in capitals was mistri virus .
a planet earth appeared on the screen and the virus began to cover it like a cloud .
around the planet , in over two hundred leading banking establishments billions of dollars began to move .
the mistri virus began to reassemble en masse .
when it reached its critical mass it would explode and begin to sweep through the world wide web .
it would invade every top level bureaucratic system in the world , establishing back doors at every level of government , state and federal alike .
no government was safe and none would know or suspect .
the virus was a sleeper in that it repaired its passage as it went , until it established itself as a part of the existing system .
tommy lesade was the only human being on the face of the planet who could stop it , remove it , or repair it .
he was its only master .
and tommy lesade was dead .
as the virus continued to infiltrate the governments of the world , tommy continued to explain the circumstances behind its creation until chambers knew the whole story from start to finish .
... so , when i found out it was all about stealing billions of dollars , possibly trillions , from the iraqi people for selfish reasons , and they attempted to kill me twice and did kill the woman i was to marry , i created this program .
i am the only human being on the face of the planet who knows the code that will open the back doors and allow me in .
i have access to information that no human being is supposed to know in total .
it would be too damaging to governments if it were to become public knowledge .
i can topple governments and nations with one key stroke .
i can make or break politicians .
i can expose corruption at every level .
in short warden ... tommy turned at a musical tone and made a key stroke , then turned back to chambers .
... i am the most powerful man on earth , as we speak .
and i will never allow that power to be abused .
as he continued to talk to warden chambers the billions drained from the accounts of clean sweep and retired general hawk and were amassing in accounts set up by tommy around the world .
from there , exactly half of the grand total would be split off from the rest and deposited in veterans accounts around the globe .
the majority would go to u.s. veterans , but billions would go to foreign veterans as well , if they had bank accounts .
niles cramer and general hawk would be left without a dime to their names and probably millions in debt .
it will serve the thieving bastards right , tommy thought , as another musical note sounded , signaling that one hour had elapsed .
the transactions were complete worldwide .
so , that concludes the story of why i am here , warden , tommy said , as he turned to the computer and made a few more final key strokes .
he wanted to insure that chambers would receive his just rewards , as he had promised governor cartwright he would .
at the same time he sent a coded email to judge ryan announcing that the mistri virus had been fully implemented and allowed to run its course .
tommy would be free within hours .
his final mission was a complete success .
just as he had planned .
may i go back to my cell now , warden ?
yes , get out , lesade .
ive wasted over two months on this .
i honestly believed you were up to something illegal .
a conspiracy or something .
youre just another loser veteran , crying about how your country abandoned you in your time of need !
you have a good day , warden , tommy said , thinking youd better enjoy it you bastard .
you dont have many left .
the clock is ticking as we speak .
secretly , he laughed to himself as he left the office and slammed the door behind him .
for over a month now , cramer had been thinking about the email he had received the night he had killed his chief of home security in a fit of rage .
he didnt have a clue who it had come from or even where it had come from .
but , he did know one thing .
it was bad news , and he hated bad news !
he had made enemies world wide over the years .
so , from that aspect , it could have come from anywhere and anyone .
still , he figured that with the right computer programmer he could trace the email back to its origin .
then he would have a better idea what it meant .
it was so cryptic , swept clean ?
what the hell did that mean , he wondered .
since cost was of no concern he had hired the best hacker programmer money could buy .
the guy was good , he had to give him that .
but , he was unable to trace it back to its sender .
the closest he had come was that it had been sent from the united states central or western area .
he knew no one in the central united states and only general hawk on the west coast .
but hawk wasnt smart enough , or dumb enough , to send him such a vague email .
if he could send one at all .
as far as cramer knew hawks only desire was his boys and his drugs and what they could do for him when they were combined in vast quantities .
so , hawk was out .
he could not , would not , send an email that read simply swept clean .
cramer now sat at his desk and studied the email .
he read and reread it , trying to make the connection .
he was failing miserably .
since receiving the message he had been unable to eat , sleep or play with his boys and girls as he once had .
he was losing weight , had bags under his eyes , and his equipment failed to function as nature had intended it should .
every time he left the house he expected a bullet in the head .
he jumped at every unexpected sound .
he was beginning to suspect everyone he saw and met of being his killer .
he had become very paranoid !
across the desk from him sitting in an overstuffed , black , butter soft , leather chair sat the man he hoped would be able to solve the mystery of the email .
he waited expectantly .
hopefully .
so , have any luck , yet ?
he finally asked , realizing the man could sit there in stony silence forever like the sphinx .
we are closer , efendi .
we are very doubtful that the message originated on the west coast of the united states of america .
oh , and why is that ?
on the date in question , at the time the email was sent , the west coast was experiencing a major power failure that lasted for a while .
then , rolling power outages were put in effect .
so , most computers were crashed as a result .
unless , of course , they were connected to emergency power generators .
then , perhaps , the short , fat , bald headed , head of mossad for pakistan said .
kalief goldman was very deep under cover in pakistan .
he posed as an arms dealer for mossad , and sent israel information on who was buying what and how many and at what cost .
he was very good at his job .
he and cramer had met years ago in israel and had become fast friends once they discovered they shared mutual interests .
in fact , cramer had purchased two of his youngsters from goldman .
they had been orphaned in the war , but now they had a father that loved them very , very much .
and they were happy .
are you suggesting , then .
that it came from the central united states ?
that , my friend , is a very good possibility , kalief said thoughtfully .
but , i dont know anyone there .
in those states .
at least you do not know that you know them .
people move around in the states like fleas on a camel .
so , who is to say for sure whether you know the person responsible lives there or not ?
true , cramer agreed thoughtfully .
but , it has been several months , now and nothing has happened .
perhaps it was a prank , he said , just as his computer chimed announcing the arrival of an email .
cramer turned and watched it reel out of the printer .
he picked it up and began reading .
the more he read the paler his face became until he seemed on the verge of passing out .
when he finished reading the message he began to immediately call up his bank accounts .
he skipped from one to the next as the message echoed inside his head .
have you checked your bank accounts today ?
when i checked they had all been swept clean !
ha !
ha !
it was true , under the account balance was nothing but , 0.00 .
nearly a trillion dollars had simply vanished into thin air .
there was not even a record of the transaction , past or present , to trace .
not even an echo .
they all read account closed in bright red letters .
cramer began to sob silently as he searched for just one account the thieves hadnt found .
there was not even one left !
they , he , she , had found them all .
the only money he had was the cash he had in his safe , here in this office .
that was less than two million dollars !
he was ruined !
he began to boil .
his anger began to build like a volcano until he could no longer contain it .
i want those responsible for this , found !
i want them delivered to me alive !
i want them now !
i dont care what it costs !
he said icily , his voice calm and dead , looking straight into kaliefs eyes .
goldman knew better than anyone what that tone of voice meant .
his friend cramer was ready to strike out and he would not be particular about who , or what , he struck out at .
something , or someone , was going to die under his hands .
kalief smiled cordially .
we will do our best , niles .
you can count on that .
i will not stop until they are found and dealt with .
well , get on it then !
there isnt a minute to lose !
yes , niles .
i will start on it now , kalief said as he stood and left the office before niles decided to take his anger out on him .
it would be a close contest and the winner would be damaged , severely .
cramer lay his head on his crossed arms on his desk top .
he wasnt broke at least , he thought .
but , one million or so , is a far cry from several hundreds of billions !
hawk !
his brain screamed at him .
he sat up immediately , turned to his computer and began to type furiously .
retired general hawk had never felt the desire to fly like his name sake , but he was flying high at the moment .
so high , in fact , he was almost in orbit .
he lay slightly on his side on the long , comfortable sofa .
between his plump , full lips was a golden pipe stem .
it was attached to a long , curling , clear plastic tube .
the hose was attached to a three foot tall clear glass water pipe .
in the bowl was a delicate wine .
in the burner was the finest opium money could buy .
in his mind he was chasing and conquering the dragon .
he sucked on the stem slowly , deeply , then slid it from his lips with a soft smacking sound .
a large , twisting , curling , rope of blue gray smoke floated lazily into the still dark air and flowed into the cloud hovering overhead .
the marble sized ball of opium burned smoothly .
the smoke filled the bowl and hawk sucked more of the smoke deep into his lungs .
his beautiful young adonis was trying to draw a lungful of the beautiful smoke through the golden stem hust below hawks ample pot belly .
it seemed to be working .
adonis was glassy eyed and moving in slow motion .
he soared as high as the hawk .
the beeping of the fax machine interrupted their blissful respite from the days worries and cares .
the generals fogged mind retrieved the memory that niles cramer was the only person on planet earth who had his fax number .
therefore , the fax had to be from cramer .
that meant more money !
or at least good news !
he pried the young adonis off of his stem , then rolled cumbersomely from the sofa and waddled to the computer and fax machine and retrieved the message .
as he read through his bleary eyes he nearly had a heart attack as he read it .
then , he began to laugh hysterically .
it was the funniest joke he had ever heard .
who would have thought cramer had it in him ?
then the reality of it sank in .
cramer was not known for his sense of humor .
so , perhaps , this was not a joke .
perhaps he was broke for a fact .
he stumbled to his computer , typed in the code for his bank accounts very slowly .
the keyboard seemed to float and twist as he managed to hit the right keys .
it felt as if he were punching his finger into a cloud of smoke from his pipe .
it was hard for him to focus .
but finally he got the number in and his account came up .
no !
not possible !
he whispered , as he read the account balances .
they all read 0.00 .
cramer had stolen his money !
the bastard !
ill kill him !
hawk muttered , as he fumbled a loaded .45 colt desert eagle from his desk drawer .
he began to stomp around , aiming it at first this and then that around the room , believing each to be cramer , then realizing they were all inanimate objects .
whats wrong , general ?
hawk heard cramer ask in a sexy , feminine voice .
you stole my money !
the general screamed , then shot the young adonis in the chest several times .
when he lay on the floor dead , hawk stood over him and emptied the clip into the young mans face .
hawks mind cleared enough for him to realize that he had not killed cramer .
but instead , the only person he had loved in his life , other than himself .
he calmly dropped the clip from the butt of the pistol , walked back to his desk , slammed another full clip into the pistol , jacked a shell into the chamber then shot himself in the temple .
he died on the way to the floor .
chapter 8 when tommy left the wardens office he was walking on a cloud .
at that precise moment he was a multi billionaire .
the farther he walked down the hall , the higher he became .
he didnt remember walking through the visiting room .
he only became aware of his location when he was in the hallway outside the door to his room .
he dug the key from his pocket , inserted it into the lock , turned and pushed the door open .
lisa sat in the chair with her legs crossed .
her foot bounced up and down impatiently , perhaps nervously , while she waited .
she had been leaning back looking at the ceiling , her mind a million miles away .
his sudden entrance startled her and she lunged forward suddenly and yelped her surprise .
her crossed leg fell to the floor with a flop .
she yelped again as she suddenly leaned forward and grabbed her ankle with both hands .
she looked up through her bangs and smiled ruefully , needles !
she exclaimed , sucking in her breath while moaning in exquisite torment and hissing through her teeth .
her head fell heavily between her knees and she laughed hysterically as the tingling sensation left her helpless .
she began to bounce her foot on the floor to help restore the circulation .
see what you made me do ?
she accused .
you come barging in here like a bull in a china shop , scaring the dickens out of me !
you should be ashamed !
she laughed , looking up from her knees , through her bangs , again .
but , im not , tommy laughed back .
serves you right , coming into a mans room .
making yourself at home .
daydreaming till your foot falls asleep a million miles away in some indescribable fantasy .
youre lucky its me and not someone that matters , he continued , crossing to the chair , leaned her back and kissed her soundly .
there , that should teach you !
he said , then kissed her again .
im a slow learner .
show me again .
and again .
and again , she repeated after each kiss .
i hope i never learn !
she laughed , as he kissed her over and over at her every request .
enough !
or youll be spoiled .
ive got to take a shower , he said , pulling his shirttail out of his pants .
lucky me !
she exclaimed , jumping to her feet and pulling her own shirttail out .
afterward , they lay in bed face to face .
tommy whispering , told her what had happened in the wardens office .
she was impressed that the warden was gullible enough to be tricked into letting tommy use his computer .
he never lets anyone use his terminal !
she said , unbelievably .
he was after something , you can bet on that .
and he believed i would lead him to it .
or at least show him where it was so he could go and get it .
did you ?
no , nothing he didnt already know .
at least nothing he can prove now .
well , with one exception , he smiled slyly .
the feds will be able to trace the theft of several hundred thousand dollars back to his terminal .
hell have a hard time explaining that .
he can only blame me .
but , i wont be me in about , he looked at his wristwatch .
oh , another ten hours or so .
why wont you be you ?
ill be the real me , tommy lesade .
tommy mistri will vanish into the ether like mist under a hot sun .
chambers will say you are one and the same .
it will just be words .
there will be no record of me ever being here .
how are you going to manage that ?
ive got friends in high places and a computer program you wouldnt believe .
ill just bet you have .
youve got a very good friend in a low place , too .
she needs a visit from you desperately , lisa said , taking his enlarging penis in her hand and squeezing it gently .
you know , i was just thinking about talking to her face to face , he said , slowly turning around on the double bed .
i like face to face confrontations , too , she laughed , spreading her legs and opening her mouth wide .
when judge ryan received tommys email , stating that the game was on , he started the paperwork , and planted the evidence , that would free him from prison .
it was simple really .
all he had to prove was that tommy had been denied a constitutional or civil right .
that was the easy part .
he himself had made the mistake .
he had considered evidence that had not been presented to the jury to access tommys punishment .
in baily v washington state , the supreme court ruled this to be the denial of trial by a jury .
judge ryan dictated his opinion to his clerk .
his clerk forwarded the opinion to the court of appeals by fax .
a friend of judge ryans received it and took it to his judge .
the appeals judge read it , affirmed it , then issued an order demanding the immediate release of inmate tommy mistri from custody .
from there , the appeals judge petitioned the governors office of the state for a full pardon for tommy mistri .
governor cartwright received the petition read it through , thought about it for a brief instant and then signed it with a flourish .
he had it faxed to every law enforcement office in the state demanding the expungement of all records pertaining to tommy mistri .
failure to comply immediately would result in heavy fines from the governors office .
within twenty four hours after receiving the pardon and order , all known records pertaining to tommy mistri were expunged , or otherwise destroyed .
he existed nowhere except as a figment of imagination in the minds of a few , very select people .
when cramer received word of hawks murder suicide , he knew for a fact that hawk had not stolen his money .
that left only one person in the entire world tommy lesade , captain , united states army ranger sniper .
the question was where was he ?
only three people in the world knew about operation clean sweep .
general hawk , tommy lesade , and himself .
now hawk was dead , and he didnt steal his own money .
so , that left only one possible suspect tommy lesade !
so , it was time to go to the states .
he still had friends in washington , d.c. , langley and quantico , virginia .
it was time to pay them a visit and call in some old debts from years ago .
he had to find tommy lesade , andrew ryan or wendell cartwright .
any of the three would do for starters .
of course if he lucked into lesade first , the other two would be useless .
after he got all of his money back , he would kill all three of them .
somehow he knew they were all in this together .
then , he would vanish to some island somewhere and live like a king .
after all he would have twice as much money , since lesade had stolen the generals , too .
cramer didnt know that half of the stolen money had already been dispersed into thousands of bank accounts around the world .
only the mistri virus could retrieve it and reassemble it all back into one account without missing one of the thousands of possible accounts worldwide .
and only tommy lesade could enter the mistri virus .
the sudden inexplicable influx of funds into their accounts left many a veteran wondering where their sudden largess had come from .
many were afraid to spend it , thinking it a computer glitch that someone would discover and demand back .
they planned to have it on hand , just in case .
then , almost as an afterthought , they had received confirmation that the money was back pay from various government programs that had been lost in the shuffle of bureaucracy .
many had just accepted it in stride , as if a long overdue bill had been paid in full .
others never noticed their bank books didnt balance by several thousand dollars .
they were long past worrying about such trivial matters .
thats why they had accountants .
or grave tenders .
cramer had his secretary book him a flight on the first thing smoking to the united states , by any route .
as he left the office he shot the unsuspecting man in the head once and ordered his maids to clean up the mess and report the body in the alley .
an hour later , he sat in the first class departure lounge sipping gin and tonic while he awaited the boarding call .
he sipped his drink slowly and plotted his revenge .
it would be so cold and so sweet .
he could hardly wait to see the look in lesades eyes when he told him that he had personally killed that nosy little cunt , lieutenant lindsey tremmel in iraq when she was getting too close to the truth about who had shot him .
then , he would kill lesade .
end of story .
cramer came back to the present when he heard his flight called .
he stood , drank the last of his watery gin and tonic , grabbed his coat and bag , then took his place in line .
he clutched his first class ticket in his right hand as he stepped forward .
lisa was jittery with excitement as she ran up to tommy on the rec yard .
her face was flushed red with heat and excitement .
her sweaty bangs stuck to her moist brow .
tommy !
come on , buster !
she panted breathlessly .
youre being released right now !
youve been given a complete pardon from the governor !
can you believe it ?
she gasped , big eyed .
tommy just looked at her , then started walking toward the building and his room .
arent you coming ?
he asked , looking back over his shoulder when he realized she wasnt beside him , like an excited puppy .
you dont seem very excited .
she said , looking at him , mystified , as she caught up .
im not , he replied , then turned and started walking again .
i already knew .
how did you know ?
she demanded .
good planning .
she looked at him in disbelief , then started walking beside him .
by the time they arrived at tommys room lisa was wiping tears from her face .
tommy looked at her curiously .
whats wrong , sweetie ?
he asked , concerned , pulling her into his arms .
i guess this is all for us , huh ?
she asked sadly .
why would you say such a thing , lisa ?
he asked , taking her by the shoulders and looking into her deep green eyes seriously .
i thought maybe you loved me and would want to be my wife , forever .
why dont you want to now ?
oh , tommy , i want that more than anything in the world , she replied , hugging him tightly around the neck .
is that a yes , then ?
he asked , looking down into her watery eyes .
yes !
definitely !
she laughed .
yeahhh !
wow !
i feel like flying .
im so happy !
she squealed exuberantly .
well , dont fly too far , he laughed .
i need a ride home .
he began stuffing his personal property into a bag .
the rest , he left where it lay .
the scavengers of the prison could have it when they found it .
im ready , he said , taking one last look around .
lets boogie , she giggled .
no time right now .
but at home , ive got a king sized bed !
life is good !
she exclaimed as they left the room and walked down the hallway to reception .
arden chambers was so mad he could eat nails !
but , he didnt have a clue what he was mad about , for sure .
but , he suspected he had been used and played like a common chump .
or worse , a fiddle !
there was definitely something going on with mistri lesade , ryan and governor cartwright , but he didnt have a clue what it could be .
and that was why he was so angry .
now , mistri lesade was being released from under his watchful eyes .
slipping through his fingers and there was nothing he could do about it .
mistri held the key to the secret .
or mistri himself was the key .
either way he was getting away and would probably never be seen again .
at least by him .
well , at least he had gotten a wardens position out of the deal .
he had finally decided governor cartwright must not remember him from college , or the girl he had taken , made love to and then discarded like the slut she was , back to the high and mighty wendell cartwright .
it hadnt been his fault she had gotten pregnant and then committed suicide when he refused to marry her and screw off his future .
things just happen for no good reason sometimes .
how was he to know she was emotionally unstable ?
besides , cartwright was governor now and that had been at least ten years ago .
it was best to leave the past in the past and look to the future that was john chambers personal motto .
what warden john chambers didnt realize was that that girl in college was the baby half sister of wendell cartwright .
and governor wendell cartwright had loved her dearly .
in fact , he had bided his time for years , waiting for the perfect opportunity to remind john chambers just how bad he was hated .
that time had arrived and pure living hell was about to descend on the head of john chambers , warden .
the clock was already ticking .
retired colonel austin lake decided early on that he wasnt too keen on the outcome of his retirement .
he missed the mission his life no longer held .
he missed the hustle and bustle of military preparedness .
being prepared and staying prepared , that was what it was all about .
now , he never knew what to expect from one minute to the next .
and all he seemed to do was sit around waiting for the next shoe to fall .
as if the world was waiting to breathe .
but , nothing ever happened and as far as he knew the world never took a breath .
so he was suffering silently in suspended boredom .
and he hated being bored !
he needed something to happen !
hell , anything would beat the nothing his life had turned into .
linda , his wife , bless her heart , still worked at what she loved .
she still had her life .
she was happy in her career as a rn and swore she would continue to work until she dropped !
that was good for her .
bad for him .
because now all he did was sit around in his fat boy chair and slowly fill it from side to side .
like now , he sat in his fat boy chair in his living room , in austin , texas watching some mindless show or other on tv .
whatever it was , he thought , it was boring him to death .
he looked up at the ceiling as a sudden thought brought to mind his old friend captain tommy lesade .
he wondered what in the world he could be up to .
maybe he would email him a message .
maybe they could get together for old times sake .
maybe lesade had something going on that he needed a fat , black , retired colonels help with .
hell , anything would beat this boredom he was suffering through .
maybe lesade would save him before he went completely insane !
his decision made , he scrambled out of his chair and went to the computer terminal .
he sat down and began to type .
when he finished , ten minutes later , he pressed send , then went back to his fat boy chair to await an answer .
he doubted lesade was setting in front of his computer waiting on emails .
lesade undoubtedly had a life he was living .
he waited for over an hour .
no answer came .
well , he thought , hell get around to it when he gets home .
hes young .
out and about .
things to do , people to see , places to go .
no time for an old fart like me .
recently he had been wondering why he hadnt heard from tommy in nearly a year .
usually hed receive a brief note about some mind blowing computer program he was developing .
but suddenly , it seemed , those brief messages had stopped .
time had moved on and colonel austin lake , retired , had become lost in a boring world of doldrums .
he kicked back in his fat boy chair , switched the tv to a different game show and almost immediately began to doze off .
life was boring !
boring , boring , boring !
tommy and lisa spent their first week alone together , not far from a flat , comfortable surface .
it didnt matter what it was , a bed , a floor , a coffee table , a couch , a dinner table , a cabinet .
if it was flat and big enough it was employed .
even a large chair had served their purpose and needs .
it really didnt matter , when a mutual need arose , they took care of it , as long as they were out of sight of prying eyes .
the second week tommy spent answering mail , faxs , emails , arranging his and lisas banking needs and checking into accounting firms .
taxes were going to be a nightmare .
he assigned one bank account with a balance of twenty five million dollars in it just to pay taxes on the rest .
lisa had resigned from the u.s .
marshals service and was at the moment searching for a larger house for them .
she had sold her small house to a friend for five hundred dollars since she didnt need the money and the friend needed the house desperately .
tommys house was fine , but not quite big enough for a growing family .
they were sure their family would grow eventually at the rate they were working on it .
lisa refused to take birth control .
before meeting tommy , her sex life had been next to nothing .
her job had been her life , but when sex was in the forecast , she insisted her partner wear a condom .
after all , she used a diaphragm , but diaphragms didnt protect against disease .
true , condoms were not 100 protection , but they beat a blank .
all in all , she had not gotten pregnant and she had no communicable diseases .
and she had been unable to get pregnant , so far .
though they hadnt discussed marriage , they were both secretly certain that when the time was right , they would be married .
it seemed it was understood .
lisa had seen too many times , the disaster of unwanted pregnancies .
the hard decisions that had to be made and the resulting effects on the fetus and the mother , the children born to families that couldnt afford an abortion , or the child , and not to mention the father who truly wanted the child , not knowing his very life and future depended upon it .
so , the family ended up with a child that wasnt wanted and couldnt be properly cared for , on one hand , and the father whose life was destroyed by the loss of his child , on the other .
then , there were the other unplanned children in the family who suffered by the addition of yet another unaffordable mouth that needed to be fed , cutting the meager rations of the existing children even thinner .
in short , she knew it was a recipe for disaster and she planned on not being a careless participant in such .
money would not be a problem .
love would not be a problem .
the problem was deciding what size house they would need in the long run .
she could solve that problem and she was working diligently to do just that .
lisa had known love , support and encouragement her entire life , therefore , was well equipped to pass it along to her and tommys offspring .
in fact , she was looking forward to it .
find anything , babe ?
tommy asked , leaning over her shoulder , kissing her ear , cheek , then lips , as she looked around .
a few , she said between kisses .
how much do you want to spend ?
the skys the limit .
your choice .
make it .
ill be happy with what you decide .
babe , i need a better car .
id like to drive around and look at some of the houses .
they dont show much on these internet sites .
lets go buy you one then , he replied .
what kind do you want ?
he added , lifting her from the chair , wrapping her in his arms and hugging her tightly .
youd better stop if youre really going to take me to buy a car , she giggled , reaching down and rubbing his swelling groin .
youre right .
ill spoil you first , then see what i get for a reward , he teased , kissing her softly around her ear lobe , which he knew drove her crazy .
anything you want if you keep doing that , she said , her passion rising .
lets go then , so we can get back fast .
i want to claim my prize , he laughed , taking her hand and leading her to the door and out to his 02 dodge ram pickup .
as he backed out of the driveway , austin lakes email arrived .
cramer was dog tired and bone weary when he arrived at dulles airport in d.c .
he was ushered through customs and thirty minutes later was entering his hotel room and beginning to undress .
after a hot shower he went to bed and slept like a rock .
he awakened exactly six hours later fully refreshed and rearing to go .
he felt he could conquer the world given a good enough excuse and a big enough army , his own private joke .
he decided he would start by calling some old friends at cia headquarters and mend some bridges that had long since quit smoldering .
he had neglected them for the past five years , when he didnt need them .
now , he did , so it was time to suck butt and call in some markers .
he decided to start with terri ashton .
she owed him a couple of big favors .
he had , at her request , rid her of a very troubled and troubling admirer .
time to pay up , terri , he thought as he dialed the number for the cia headquarters and his still active code number .
central intelligence agency , bradley speaking .
how may i help you ?
the female voice asked calmly .
terri ashton , anti terrorism .
niles cramer calling .
one moment please , while i connect you , sir , she replied , then was gone and elevator music took over babysitting duties for a moment .
ashton , cramer , you son of a bitch !
where have you been ?
terri asked , as she came on the line .
out and about , terri .
whats cooking ?
he replied , smiling , knowing he was in like flint , if he wanted to be .
chasing the bad guys , getting chased by the good ones and getting caught by the fast ones , she laughed at her joke .
you lucky girl !
he said .
listen , babe .
i need a favor .
same ol cramer , i see , she laughed jokingly .
what is it this time ?
she laughed again , knowing cramer had never asked a favor of her , ever .
she had been the seeker of favors on several occasions .
and cramer had always come through for her .
i need to locate an old friend .
i knew him in iraq and have since lost contact with him .
he came back to the states with a bullet in his chest .
whats his name ?
tommy lesade , captain , army ranger slash sniper .
let me see , she mused as she typed .
lesade , tommy .
army .
special forces .
ranger sniper .
iraq .
wia .
2003 .
correct ?
yeah , thats the scoop .
okay , were in business .
and its thriving .
i have a thomas adam lesade , 406 west cherokee , tahlequah , oklahoma .
there is no tommy .
i also have a tom clark lesade , 123 belmont , richmond , virginia ... can you just fax me the list ?
ill call until i find the right one .
that would make it easier .
whats your number ?
he gave her the number to his pc .
okay , here it comes .
thanks terri .
youre a doll .
no problem , she assured him .
listen , if youre in town , why dont we get together later this evening ?
no can do , darlin ive got to find lesade .
maybe some other time , he suggested , knowing he didnt need to be bound , gagged , blindfolded and spanked pink while she devoured him , tonight .
even though she was very good at it .
he knew from past experience .
he was almost tempted , but no , lesade and getting his money back were more important .
well okay , then , she said , disappointment obvious in her tone .
but , call me soon , promise ?
promise , he said .
see you later .
thanks again , terri .
anytime , niles .
call me .
i will .
see ya later .
okay , she replied and broke the connection .
cramer put the phone down and picked up the fax .
there were ten tommy lesades on the list , or variations of the name tommy .
this would be simple , he thought , as he picked up the phone and began dialing the first number .
he stopped suddenly and hung the phone up .
bad idea !
he thought .
they were far from old friends and if lesade knew he was coming for him he could prepare .
a prepared enemy was a bad enemy .
it was better to sneak up on him .
cramer smiled and began to pack .
lisa chose a light blue infinity after three hours of looking around several dealerships in tulsa .
tommy told the salesman that if he could have the light blue one ready to drive in one hour , as well as a dark blue one , they would pay cash for both of them and pick up the dark blue one tomorrow evening , the salesman assured him he could have them both ready in an hour .
tommy told him he would need to leave his truck there overnight and was assured it wouldnt be a problem .
one hour later lisa drove them off the dealership property .
their first stop was a large ten bedroom mansion on the south side of tulsa .
it looked like a three story box .
they passed .
why dont we just have a house built the way you want it ?
tommy asked as they drove toward the next house on lisas list .
really ?
she asked in disbelief .
sure , why not ?
he replied .
then , you can have everything you want , just the way you want it .
plus , we can buy as much land as we want , to do whatever we want to do .
i always wanted to raise horses , she said longingly .
they are so beautiful and graceful like poetry in motion , set to music .
ah !
a lass after me own irish heart , he said in an irish brogue .
so , lets look for land !
where ?
lake , ocean , desert , island ?
your choice .
no lakes .
no oceans .
no deserts .
no isles .
what i want me fair haired lad , is trees .
millions of trees .
trees for miles and miles !
here in oklahoma ?
he asked .
theres no place in the world like it .
so , i couldnt live anywhere else , she said turning serious .
youre the boss .
my wish is your command !
you got that backwards , buster !
she laughed , seeing he was turning red .
just a little , he agreed joining her laughter .
you know what i mean , yeah , she laughed .
how much land we talking ?
i dont know .
how much does it take to raise horses ?
lets ask the professionals .
know any ?
i know a few around tahlequah .
theyd know what an ideal spread would be .
well , back to tahlequah then .
right ?
right .
the drive home was filled with talk of houses , land , horses , what breed , how many , where , schools , shopping and a myriad other subjects that revolved around one thing , family .
lisa and tommy were so comfortable in each others company it seemed they had been married for years .
they seemed to see eye to eye on everything , as if they were a match made in heaven .
at home , one of the first things tommy noticed when he entered was that he had an email from colonel lake .
he read it , and then answered it with his sincerest apologies for not staying in contact over the past several months .
austin had been good to him since the awol charges had been dismissed .
lake blamed general hawk for the mix up and still held a vicious grudge .
they had no idea that the general was in fact dead in california and lying in the malibu morgue .
tommy was glad the grudge was against the general and not him .
in his answer he didnt mention his time in prison for several reasons one , the records no longer existed .
two , it was all part of the ultimate plan to launch the mistri virus and three , austin lake had no need to know .
instead , he told the colonel about lisa and their plans for their future horse ranch in northeastern oklahoma .
he invited the colonel and his wife to come visit anytime .
their door would always be open and their hearth warm and welcoming .
he closed the email with best wishes and sent it speeding on its way to austin in austin both the man and the city .
he thought how strange it would be to be named after the city in which you were born .
he laughed .
he didnt think sapulpa lesade sounded very good .
what are you sniggering about ?
lisa asked , looking up from the small local paper she was reading .
after tommy explained , she agreed that sapulpa was not a very endearing first name .
but , it started a discussion about first names for both boys and girls .
lisa , he said seriously , coming over and kneeling beside the sofa she was seated on and taking her hand in his .
he looked up and into her eyes and said , since we are going to be together for the rest of our lives , why dont we get married and make it honorable , and legal ?
are you serious ?
she responded , big eyed and her fingers over her mouth , which was agape in awe as her eyes became watery .
yes , of course .
i love you .
what better rea ... before he could finish , she was off the sofa and in his arms , hugging him tightly and smothering his face with kisses .
is this a yes ?
he asked between smooches .
yes !
oh , god , yes !
she sobbed beginning to weep .
i love you so very much , tommy lesade !
terri ashton couldnt believe her luck !
after cramer had called she decided to do a little checking on her own .
cramer , from what she remembered , was not the type to pay cordial visits to anyone !
much less old friends !
he had no friends that she could remember , unless there was something in it for him .
and the fact that he had called with that line about paying a surprise visit on an old friend told her only one thing cramer was up to something secret !
and she was going to find out what it was and cut herself a slice of the pie .
so , being the spy she was , she placed tracers on all of the lesades on her list and monitored all of their telephone and computer transmissions going to , or coming from , each address .
when she intercepted an email from colonel austin lake in austin , to tommy lesade in tahlequah , oklahoma , she ran a check on the colonel .
that was where she had been lucky .
colonel austin lake had served in iraq as commander of an elite ranger battalion .
captain tommy lesade , a cmh awardee had served under him as a sniper .
that is when terri ashton had dominoed !
she put two and two together and come up with a nice new shiny four .
after some more checking and digging , she had learned that the captain had been reported missing awol for twenty four hours and had been temporarily assigned to a cia operative named miles cramer .
shortly after that cramer had gone missing and the captain had returned from his unexplainable absence .
it was curiously strange to her and beyond coincidence .
terri contacted a very close friend , sandy borne , in the fbi .
she explained her suspicions about cramer and her friend agreed to call another friend in the tulsa , in the oklahoma fbi office and ask him to drive over to tahlequah and have a talk with tommy lesade to find out if there was a connection and a long lost friendship .
what was really strange and out of character for terri was that she was not normally a suspicious person .
but , cramers unexpected and out of character call had set off alarms in her brain that she was not aware were there .
she was promised that if there was anything going on they would provide surveillance on lesade .
if cramer showed up they would watch the two of them and find out what was really going on .
or , what the two were up to .
and , best of all , if there was a bust , she would get the credit for the connection between lesade and cramer .
after she had hung up , she thought maybe she should have asked for surveillance on lake as well .
she quickly called back and made arrangements with the austin , texas office .
she felt she was in a win win situation .
if there was nothing there , she would get credit for being diligent in her job performance .
if there was something in the works , she would get the credit for spotting the connection .
win win !
she smiled .
colonel lake read tommys email with pleasure .
he knew tommy was alright , in love and as happy as a clam in wet mud .
plus , the idea for the horse ranch intrigued him to no end .
he had been raised on a horse ranch in southwest texas .
he considered himself a professional when it came to good horseflesh .
he emailed tommy and told him about life on the ranch .
he also mentioned his credentials as such .
later that evening he discussed it with his wife , linda .
she agreed that if an invitation was forthcoming he should go .
if for nothing else , just to get out of the house and become active in something that held his interest .
after all , she reasoned , there were jobs for registered nurses in oklahoma .
and probably in tahlequah , in fact .
tommy had mentioned in the past that tahlequah had two hospitals .
one was the county hospital for cherokee county and the other was the cherokee indian hospital for the local cherokee indian population .
tahlequah was the tribal headquarters for the southern nation .
it would be nice to live on a ranch again , lake thought , as he lay in bed staring at the ceiling .
he couldnt sleep .
he had spent the day napping off and on like a big pond bull frog .
now , he was paying the price for his laziness .
linda had gone to work , where she spent most of her time .
and like him , old habits were hard to break .
cramer knew he couldnt telephone any of the lesades on his list .
if one of them was the tommy lesade he was searching for , he would be alerting him that he was being sought by an old enemy .
he would then be on his guard every second of every day and night .
cramers intent was not to kill tommy .
well , at least until he got his money back , anyway .
then all bets were off tommy lesade was a dead man .
the difference this time was that he would make doubly sure lesade was dead .
he had decided to go to every address on the list and visibly check each face and hope he could recognize lesade after nearly six years .
he should be able to , he thought .
most people didnt change that much in such a short length of time .
they may gain weight , lose weight , change their hair style , grow a beard , or any number of other things , but they very seldom changed their face unless they were trying to hide from someone .
tommy thought he would be a suspect if he had actually taken the money .
if he didnt , why disguise himself .
if he did , then he was smart enough to know that cramer would have to come to him face to face .
then , force him to give back the money .
the question was , how could he force lesade to return the money short of killing him .
if he killed him first , how would he get the money back ?
it was a catch 22 .
leverage was the key .
but what could he use for leverage ?
unless lesade had loved ones he was willing to protect for any amount of money .
if he didnt , no amount of leverage would be enough he would have to resort to torture .
he really didnt like torture .
a man was willing to say anything when the pain became unbearable .
how was the torturer to know when he had learned the truth ?
besides , torture was chancy .
too much , the victim died or went nuts .
too little , and the victim didnt talk .
it was a balancing act that he had no patience for .
when the victim was a loved one on the other hand , the subject was more than willing to talk a blue streak and deliver the goods as quickly as possible .
maybe he could use drugs , he thought , as he sped down the highway to the first address on his list .
maybe thiopental sodium sodium pentothal .
truth serum .
or maybe even nitrous oxide laughing gas .
maybe even heroin or some other opiate .
get him hooked and strung out and he would talk for a fix .
hed do anything to get the dragon off his back .
even kill .
he would give him the money in a heartbeat if cramer could get him in a place where only he could supply what tommy needed most of all .
now that , cramer thought , has possibilities .
he would have to do a little searching .
but , drug dealers were a dime a dozen in the inner city .
what he needed should be easy to find , if he looked in the right place .
but , getting lesade hooked would be a completely different story .
of course after the first shot he would be like putty to handle .
but , how would he deliver the first shot ?
maybe a tranquilizer gun , like they used on animals .
he could shoot him , wait for him to nod , then take him anywhere he wanted to keep him until he was strung out like a picket fence .
cramers mind zoomed through countless scenarios as he sped down the highway .
his imagination traveled at the same speed as the lincoln he was driving .
he was happy and content to let it soar like an eagle .
he knew what the final outcome would be .
however he chose to do it , the end result would be the same .
he would have his money back and tommy lesade would be dead !
tommy lay on their bed , nude .
lisa sat beside him rubbing lotion onto his back .
she was tempted to ask about the many knife scars , but had yet to build up the nerve to bring back all those bad memories .
tommy had never mentioned them or tried to explain them to her .
so , she had left it alone , deciding that if and when he wanted her to know about his experiences in the war , he would tell her in his own time .
still , she wondered how he had gotten so many .
tommy lay there thinking about the horse ranch .
he had talked to three separate horse ranchers in the area and had learned a lot about what they considered a perfect set up would be .
he also learned about a tract of land out near lake tenkiller .
it was a little over four hundred acres .
it had several spring fed creeks winding through it .
one of which averaged three feet deep and had a gravel bottom .
the water was crystal clear and ice cold .
it also had several stock ponds scattered around it , good pastures and millions of trees .
there was no house , but that was a plus as far as tommy was concerned , since they were going to have their own house built anyway .
they were planning on going out there the following morning and having a look around , and maybe make an offer comparable to the asking price of six hundred thousand .
there was only one drawback that tommy could think of the eastern pasture butted up against lake tenkiller .
but that was half a mile away and would be out of sight of any house they built .
he was also thinking about the visit andrew ryan had made earlier .
ryan had claimed he was just passing by and had decided to stop and say hi and see how tommy was treating lisa .
he was joking of course .
his real reason was to inform him that governor cartwright was anxious to start phase two of the agreement they had made .
while judge ryan watched , tommy entered a series of numbers and letters into his computer .
almost immediately the oklahoma department of corrections great seal came on the screen .
tommy then made his way into the accounting department of the connors unit .
he withdrew two million dollars and transferred it into the personal account of warden john chambers .
ten minutes later he transferred it into an offshore account bearing the same name .
he then entered the complete transaction into the wardens computer at the connors unit and with the push of a button completed his part of the deal they had made .
let him explain that !
ryan laughed .
i wish connors was in cherokee county !
he added seriously .
well , tommy said .
it serves him right .
im a big believer in people getting whats coming to them .
their just rewards .
seems they always do , in the end , ryan agreed .
tommy also thought about austin lake and the email he had sent him inviting him and linda to oklahoma .
he could be the foreman on the ranch and linda could go to work at one of the local hospitals if she wanted to .
there were several openings at both of them for registered nurses .
it seems , he thought , everythings falling into place .
just as he believed it would .
his only worry at the moment was hawk and cramer .
they would be coming soon .
he didnt believe for a second they would give up all of their ill gotten gains without a fight .
its just a matter of time , he thought , as lisa reached his neck and began to message the lotion into his golden skin .
tomorrow , he thought , ill have a security outfit from tulsa or muskogee come out and install a state of the art security system .
well need it here since well be here a few more months .
they still hadnt acquired the land or an architect to design the home , or a builder to build it .
that would all take time .
and time was the one thing they were in short supply of at the time .
cramer was coming !
of that he had no doubt !
chapter 9 cramer was coming alright !
but he was taking the long way around .
lady luck had dealt him a very high hand in d.c. , but after he had checked the fifth name of ten off his list , the game had changed .
he now found himself driving west on a four lane highway .
his destination was omaha , nebraska .
at least if this wasnt the right t. lesade , it was on his way to number six on his list .
if the last name on his list proved not to be the tommy lesade he was searching for he would be back to square one ground zero !
and with no leads to guide him .
of course there was always the outside chance that he may hit the jack pot in omaha or tahlequah .
the sky blue lincoln floated down the highway as if it rode on air .
the classical music he listened to was vibrant !
emotional !
it moved him near to tears .
the high notes came through the speakers as if the orchestra was inside the vehicle with him .
he tapped his finger on the steering wheel with the beat and visualized the 17th century balls .
the dancers floating across the floor to their partners .
the women curtsied .
the men , in their white powdered wigs and waistcoats of sky blue , red , purple and violet , their butternut , gray , white and tan pants , fitting like ballet tights , their codpieces prominent , as they accepted the soft delicate hands of their partners , bowed , their left leg crossed slightly over their right , their head bowed gracefully , their chins turned just at the precise angle , as if looking up at him through the window of time .
laughing at his pathetic efforts to become one of them while knowing in his heart of hearts that he was nothing but a common commoner .
still , he longed to be there , one of them , one of the lofty ones .
but , he knew he didnt have , and would never have , the gentility to pass himself off as more than he was , an imposter lost in the 21st century a simple commoner .
this thought angered him and he twisted the knob to another radio station .
he landed on a talk show .
this angered him even more .
he turned the radio off , sat back and began making plans for tommy lesade .
this pleased him .
he smiled sadistically to himself and drove on west , increasing his speed to eighty .
he engaged the cruise control and sat , back comfortably in the large luxurious , form fitting moroccan leather seat .
the telephone on the desk of sandy borne , special agent , fbi , tulsa office rang importantly and insistently .
she ignored it until she finished her background check on captain tommy lesade , united states army ranger sniper .
she hated being interrupted .
her subject was the most impressive , real life man she had ever read about .
it seemed as if there was nothing he couldnt do .
from killing without compassion , to dying for a cause he believed in .
borne , she answered , jerking the phone from the cradle as if it were hot .
yeah , this is jackson , her nemesis down the hall stated .
found anything on lesade , ryan , and cramer , yet ?
she added , as if it were too far to walk from her office three doors down the hall .
you wouldnt believe me if i told you .
this guy , lesade , is every womans dream !
youre an expert on what every woman wants ?
jackson asked , insinuating that agent borne was perhaps gay .
youll never find out , jackson .
so , dont get false hopes built up .
actually agent borne was hot all over for agent jackson .
she could close her eyes and visualize jackson strutting around the office in her form fitting , designer outfits her pert little ass sticking out as if in invitation to be patted or caressed .
on several occasions , jackson had dropped subtle hints to her that she was of the persuasion that enjoyed the company and attentions of young , pretty , well built , golden haired beauties , such as agent borne herself .
she had also insisted , offhandedly , of course , that her favorite eye color was golden cat eyes .
bournes eyes could be described as cat eyes .
and they were definitely golden !
it didnt take a rocket scientist to figure out where she was leading , or trying to be led .
how about we have lunch ?
i have an interesting case out near hominy .
seems a certain warden there decided he needed a loan from the prison .
he took it .
denies it .
has no proof .
but , i need to investigate .
since its not that far to tahlequah , maybe we can carpool .
how bout it , girl ?
what the hell , borne thought .
might as well jump in and get wet all over !
sure that would be great .
you drive down .
ill drive back .
deal ?
she said , half hoping for rejection .
but , praying for acceptance , too .
deal , jackson said quickly .
wear something loose .
the air conditioner in my car is moody .
first thing tomorrow .
pick me up .
ill be there at six .
i know the address .
great , ill see you then .
wondering how and why jackson knew her address , borne looked back over at her computer and the military picture of captain tommy lesade staring back at her .
bye , jackson said , then hung up .
bye , sandy said , then hung up and turned back to her computer terminal .
she thought about agent melissa jackson .
not your typical african american .
she was a little short for an fbi agent at five feet six inches tall .
sandy herself was five feet eight .
jackson was slim with what appeared to be medium sized breasts .
probably 32c , sandy guessed .
she was a 36c .
jackson was very well educated .
harvard law .
honors .
iq 160 .
golden skin , satiny smooth .
beautiful face .
should have been a model .
father phd .
law .
mother same .
long slim hands and fingers .
touch like a butterfly .
smells like heaven in springtime .
soft spoken .
smoky voice .
third degree black belt .
tae kwan do .
olympics .
gold .
womens .
sandy noticed her hands trembling slightly .
she also felt a rising heated dampness between her legs .
her hands poised over the keyboard , she knew she had to start thinking about something else .
lesade would do for starters .
two hours later she was still studying lesade .
this guy is an absolute olympian god she thought , as she read and reread the information on the screen .
i cant believe im falling in love with him she told herself , as the information from his military 201 file began to scroll down the screen .
you spending the night , here ?
jackson asked , sticking her head past the slightly opened door .
just finishing up , she replied shutting the computer off .
need a lift ?
no , thanks , ive got my car .
how about a night cap ?
my place .
we can do some planning for tomorrow , jackson asked seductively , her voice as alluring as a vampire .
sure , sandy responded before she thought about it .
she grabbed her bag and went toward the door .
great !
lets go !
jackson said , holding the door for her .
the drive to jacksons was a blur .
she followed closely behind so as not to lose her way .
her thoughts stormed through her mind as she thought of what all a night cap might entail in addition to conversation about the two working cases .
she had been torn between her two competing sexual desires since her years in junior high school .
she had never been that impressed with heterosexual sex .
but , by the same token , she had never had a lesbian relationship either .
she didnt know exactly what to expect when alone with melissa jackson .
but , she would soon find out , she thought , sitting in melissas living room sipping a bourbon and coke .
melissa had excused herself to slip into something more comfortable .
sandy couldnt wait to see what it may be .
her thoughts raced from a genie costume to a tank top and thong .
she was anxious to see it whatever it may , or may not , be .
she tried not to show her disappointment when melissa returned to the living room in very baggy gray sweats .
she plopped down in a large overstuffed chair across from the sofa .
she pulled her legs up under herself and sighed .
she laid her head back , closed her eyes for a moment , yawned , sighed again and then stretched like an exotic cat .
shes so beautiful , sandy thought as she watched silently .
she almost felt like a voyeur .
melissas eyes flashed open .
she stared straight at sandy , as if she had read her mind .
do you have any idea how beautiful you are ?
she asked .
thank you , but no .
average , maybe .
but , not beautiful , like you , sandy stammered , taken completely by surprise by the complement .
trust me , girl .
i know beautiful .
and you are she .
i could eat you alive , melissa said seriously , then licked her lips and shivered all over as if freezing .
melissa , are you gay ?
sandy asked , unable to resist the invitation .
no , im fbi .
being a lesbian is frowned upon , she laughed .
they preach dont ask , dont tell .
but , dont you believe it for a minute , girl .
if they find out , kiss your career goodbye .
kiss advancement goodbye .
its hello cairo !
i would never tell , sandy swore .
its no ones business but yours , right ?
right , she replied , looking intently at sandy .
her eyes looked her slowly up and down .
sandy began to feel excitement spread throughout her whole body .
she began to feel warm all over .
she set her drink aside , and then stared back across the room at melissa .
suddenly , she stood up and began to undress .
to her surprise melissa joined her .
when they were completely nude they met in the middle of the room with a hot passionate kiss .
their hands roamed each others bodies delicately .
the investigations that were supposed to be the subject of their meeting were put on hold for more important and pressing investigations that sent waves of desire and passion coursing through their bodies .
tommy was glad the installation of the security system went fast .
within four hours the whole place was wired like a top secret military installation .
nothing could move within the perimeter of his house and lot that he wouldnt know about .
he felt more comfortable and secure now than he had in the past six months .
his main concern was lisa .
she had to be protected at all costs .
he had sworn his life to her she to him .
it was his responsibility to protect her .
and he would give his life in the fulfillment of that duty .
after the security people had left , lisa and tommy went to look around the land they were considering buying .
they agreed they would decide where to build the house , barn , stables , corrals , exercise yards , and what areas would be used as pasture when and if they decided to buy the land .
a man by the name of jack anderson was going to meet them there and offer his advice for placement of the buildings and corrals and why he would place them as he suggested .
anderson had been raising quarter horses around tahlequah for over thirty years .
so , he knew his business .
he came highly recommended .
he had a list of satisfied customers a mile long .
everyone in the area knew and trusted him and he knew everyone and who to trust .
when tommy and lisa shook hands with anderson at the gate to the property , they thought they were shaking hands with will rogers .
the resemblance was uncanny .
they mentioned it and anderson laughed .
yeah , people say that all the time .
but i dont see the resemblance atall !
hell will rogers was ten feet tall and cast a shadow a mile long on a cloudy day .
and had more wild stories than louis lamour !
plus , he became a politician in the end .
i dont care for politicians , much , he continued , doffing his hat and twirling it in his fingers , standing hip shot , much like the famous oklahoman .
lisa laughed at the uncanny characterization as she watched jack imitate rogers .
well , lets go have us a look around and see what we can and imagine the rest .
okay ?
anderson said , replacing his hat and opening the gate .
sounds good to me , tommy said , climbing in his truck after lisa .
anderson got in on the other side .
i do admire sitting beside a beautiful woman , he said , smiling at lisa .
cramer was beginning to worry .
he drove southwest out of omaha headed for his furthest destination from d.c. tahlequah , oklahoma .
the last tommy lesade on his list lived there .
if he wasnt the right one , cramer thought , he wasnt sure where he would start looking next .
maybe back to d.c. and terri ashton , he thought .
she was so committed , he reasoned .
it would be hard for her to back out now .
maybe she had overlooked something that would prove to be the key to the whereabouts of captain tommy lesade .
plus , she still owed him a few favors , the way he saw it .
thinking of a future night with terri brought a smile to his face and a warm , fuzzy feeling to the pit of his stomach .
he began to ache in a way that made him long for the comfort of his own home and his possessions there inanimate and living , alike .
at least his home was safe .
his slaves and servants were safe and financially secure should something happen to him .
he never kidded himself tommy lesade was one very dangerous man .
there was always the possibility he would somehow gain the upper hand .
if he did manage it , things were going to get real ugly , real fast .
cramer knew for a fact that he was not the one to take lesade one on one , face to face .
his only chance was from a safe distance away and stealth .
preferably with a scoped rifle which he didnt have at the present time .
but , like anything else in america , it could be obtained with little or no trouble , if one knew where to look .
cramer knew where to look .
he had acquired illegal weapons in places where possession would bring instant death .
no trial , judge or jury was needed .
justice was the man with the most men and guns to back him up .
cramer had never had that many friends he could trust well enough to turn his back on them .
besides , he preferred the shadows .
the inky black of night and the unexpected attack .
the name of the game he played was he who survives wins !
he had always won in the past .
as far as he was concerned honor had no place on the battlefield .
survival reigned supreme .
the way he saw it was , if a man loved living , he could only put his total trust in one person .
himself !
to trust other men to protect something that wasnt dear to them personally was foolish .
a mans life was only dear to that man who possessed it .
to others , it was inconsequential a burden that may in fact cost them their own life as a result of trying to protect someone elses .
thats why niles cramer walked alone .
always had , always would .
that way he was responsible for only one mans actions .
his .
he didnt have to try and guess what others saw , heard , did or how they acted or reacted to certain opposing actions .
thus , he was still alive after nearly twenty years in the very dangerous world of espionage and counterespionage .
cramer enjoyed sitting back observing everything .
he could take his time and act or react at his own whim .
he could also decide on his own , to back off and wait for another opportunity if circumstances didnt add up exactly the way he wanted them to .
he enjoyed that freedom .
being his own boss .
doing what he wanted , when he wanted .
responsible to and for no one .
the total free agent was niles cramer !
the sign beside the highway read tulsa , muskogee , with an arrow pointing one way .
below that was little rock , hot springs and an arrow pointing straight ahead .
cramer guided the lincoln to the right and tulsa .
there were some things he needed to pick up and tulsa was the place to get them .
he maybe couldnt get it in little rock quite as easily .
he knew people who knew people in tulsa .
the banker , sam bishop , looked at tommy and lisa over his round bifocals skeptically .
perhaps he had misunderstood what tommy said , or perhaps they were playing a joke on a small town banker .
he didnt much care for being the butt of some silly joke .
the way he saw it , time was money .
and they were taking up his time , therefore , costing him money !
let me get this straight , mister lesade , he said , as if catching on to the joke .
you want to open a checking account in both of your names .
then , you want to open a savings account , also in both of your names .
and then , you want to transfer one hundred million dollars split equally into each of the accounts ?
he grinned , his bald head damp and red with nervous tension and sweat .
correct , tommy said .
thats right , lisa agreed .
and where will these funds be coming from ?
tommy handed him a slip of paper with an account number and a bank web address .
bishop typed the address and number into the computer on his desk .
when the banking form appeared on his screen he typed in the account number in the appropriate space , then leaned back to wait .
his expression was becoming more and more tense by the second .
he was thinking that perhaps this wasnt a joke after all .
then , he paled noticeably .
he became nervous and very serious in an attempt to cover it up .
the one hundred million dollars was a mere drop in the bucket compared to what was in the account he was looking into .
there were literally billions of dollars in the account .
when the transfer was complete he turned back to tommy and lisa .
he had mostly regained his composure .
he was a banker , after all !
he was used to dealing with large sums of money on a daily basis .
today he had set a new personal record in the amount he had handled in one transaction .
from hundreds of thousands he had moved into the hundreds of millions !
this is one very rich man , he thought , as he turned around , smiled quickly , nervously , and looked into the four eyes that were watching him .
of course i will have to report this transfer to the securities and exchange commission and the internal revenue service , bishop said , raising his eyebrows a little .
of course , tommy answered .
he didnt care .
he had covered his bases from here to sunday .
it would take anyone , except him , forever , to trace the money through the system .
he would be surprised if they checked any farther than the bank it had just been transferred from .
at this time your account is available .
i will have your temporary checks available within minutes .
if you will excuse me for a minute , ill see to it , he said , rolling his chair back and standing , then scurried from the office .
i dont understand why people get so nervous about large amounts of money .
its just paper , tommy said softly , looking over at lisa .
he probably makes a hundred to a hundred and fifty thousand dollars a year in this bank .
at his current salary he would be long dead before he earned a tenth of the interest on that amount of money .
how did you expect him to act ?
lisa scolded him quietly .
you should be ashamed , tommy lesade !
ashamed for what ?
i wasnt born rich .
i didnt inherit the money .
i stole it , the same as hawk and cramer did .
im not proud of it , but its a little late for that , now .
the difference is that im giving most of it away to people who need it far worse than i do .
that eases my conscience a little .
its all new to me , too .
and it doesnt make me nervous and giddy .
i understand its just a tool to use .
that may be true , but you have it .
and just think of the size of your tool compared to his , lisa said with all seriousness , then began to glow red as realization sank in about her choice of metaphors .
that is purely genetic , lisa , he laughed .
it has nothing to do with the size of our bank accounts , he added , smugly .
she swatted him on the shoulder , he ducked playfully .
she turned beet red and hit him again .
he laughed out loud , as bishop returned and sat behind his desk .
he eyed them suspiciously , but remained serious .
i will need for you to sign these forms for the savings account .
and these forms for the checking account for signature verification , he said , laying several forms in front of them .
they began signing the forms .
tommy stopped and looked up , mister bishop , we are going to be married in the next few weeks .
how will that affect our joint account ?
no problem there .
once you are married , lisa will have to complete new signature cards .
as a matter of fact she can complete it now , if you like , he said , looking at lisa .
ill wait .
lisa said .
i want it to be one hundred percent legal when i start signing my name as lisa lesade .
itll be no trouble to stop by and take care of it .
as you wish , bishop smiled , thinking it didnt matter to him .
his bank was in possession of tommys one hundred million dollars .
so nothing needed to be rushed now .
when tommy completed signing his name five times to the signature card he handed his stack of forms back to bishop .
bishop then accepted lisas and said , well , thats everything , i believe .
welcome to our bank , he added , standing up and offering his hand to tommy .
my door is open to you any time .
feel free to just drop in and chat , if for no other reason .
thank you , mister bishop , tommy said , taking bishops hand and shaking it sincerely , then watched as lisa did the same .
these are your temporary checks , he said handing them a small booklet of checks .
i hope to see a lot of them passing through our small establishment , he smiled .
there will be a few , tommy promised , then he and lisa shook hands with bishop again and he walked them to the front door .
as they walked down the sidewalk toward their car , bishop was back at his desk hard at work as if nothing out of the ordinary had occurred in his sleepy little establishment .
he looked up from his task as they passed and waved .
he waved back .
when they arrived home , they were surprised to see a strange car parked in front of their house .
as they pulled into the driveway and got out , two very beautiful women got out of the strange car and came toward them .
mister tommy lesade ?
the golden one asked , offering her hand .
yes , im tommy lesade .
what can i do for you ?
im special agent borne with the fbi .
this is my partner special agent jackson .
wed like to ask you some questions , if you dont mind , sir .
sandy said as she and melissa showed their badges and identification .
sure , ask away , tommy replied .
could we go inside , please ?
it would be more private and comfortable .
this may take a while , melissa asked .
no problem , tommy replied , leading the women inside .
can i offer you some coffee , or soda ?
i even have tea , lisa asked , as the women sat on the sofa and tommy sat in his easy boy recliner .
coffee would be great , sandy answered for both of them .
whats this all about ?
tommy asked , as lisa left to get the coffee .
all she had to do was pour it .
tommy insisted that there always be a fresh pot of coffee sitting under the mr. coffee coffee machine .
sir , do you know , or have you ever known a man by the name of niles cramer ?
he was cia in iraq in 2003 , melissa asked .
what about him ?
sandy saw by tommys expression of pure loathing that there was a connection here .
i find it hard to believe that you two are fbi agents , tommy smiled , across at them .
why is that , mister lesade ?
you are both entirely too beautiful .
you should be models , instead .
thank you for your compliment , mister lesade , but i assure you we are who and what we say we are , melissa replied , thinking she could fall in love with a man as honest and open as tommy lesade .
she realized that sandy hadnt been exaggerating in the office yesterday about him being every womans dream man .
oh , im sure you are , tommy said .
now , what about niles cramer ?
he finished , looking openly at the two women .
he noticed the one name sandy began to squirm and show him glances up her loose , short skirt .
he noticed she wasnt wearing any panties .
she was coming on to him , he decided .
too late , lass , he thought , but continued to look anyway .
he supposed it was male nature .
what can you tell us about him ?
melissa asked , uncrossing her long beautiful legs as he looked at her .
he received a very clear and beautiful look at her nudeness , too .
he was going to enjoy this interview , he decided .
both women smiled at him innocently .
where would you like for me to start ?
he asked as lisa came back into the room with a tray of coffee .
how about at the beginning ?
sandy asked , turning professional again when lisa entered the room and handed her a steaming cup of coffee .
would you like cream or sugar ?
she asked them .
no sugar , but we both just love cream , melissa smiled , licking her lips , and then glanced at tommy when lisa offered sandy the carafe of cream .
tommy smiled , then began talking , letting his mind travel back in time .
he talked for nearly thirty minutes , ending with his belief that cramer had killed lindsey in order to stop her investigating him further .
it seems he may have reason to harm you further , mister lesade .
if given the chance , sandy said .
im sure he would if he got the chance .
but , hes still safe in pakistan as far as i know , he said , tossing a little bait out at them .
we have reason to believe that he is actually hunting you as we speak , sandy said , looking seriously into tommys eyes .
why do you believe that ?
four days ago he called a friend of ours in washington d.c. , actually quantico , virginia , asking about your last known address .
he led her to believe you two were old friends , who , over the years , had lost contact .
he wanted , so he claimed , to renew your old friendship .
we were never friends , tommy said firmly .
make no mistake about that .
it doesnt sound like it , after what he did to you , twice , melissa said , doe eyed .
mister lesade , we appreciate you taking the time to talk to us so candidly about this .
we will place surveillance around the area for the next few days to keep a watch for cramer .
were sure hes going to find you here .
one of the addresses on his list was this one .
its the farthest from dc .
so , will probably be his last stop , sandy said as she stood , giving him one more good long look up her skirt .
luckily , lisa was looking worriedly at tommy .
had she been looking at the women , fbiess or no fbiess , she would have been on her in a flash .
tommy smiled inwardly at the look up the skirt , but internally he was grim , he knew that his killing wasnt over , after all .
it has been a pleasure , melissa said , and then when tommy looked over at her , she stood , giving him another good long look up her own skirt .
again lisa was staring fixedly at him .
it has indeed been a pleasure , i assure you , he said as he stood to escort the two women to the door .
at the door both women turned and winked at him with a smile .
they extended their hands to him and he took them one at a time and found them warm and delicate .
anytime you want us , were here for you mister lesade , sandy assured him .
ill keep that in mind , ladies .
but , can we drop the mister , just call me tommy .
im much more comfortable with informality and after what weve shared i feel were old friends .
then you must call us sandy and melissa .
deal , he replied .
well tommy , well be seeing you around , then , melissa said , and then she and sandy turned and swayed seductively to their car .
he watched them all the way .
as they drove off he closed the door and turned his mind back to lisa .
the two fbiesses were history .
lisa ?
tommy called as he walked from room to room .
in the bedroom , she answered .
you know , i never did collect my prize the other day .
you collected your prize many , many times , tommy !
she laughed .
those times werent really the prize though , he argued , kissing her neck and earlobes , loving the fragrance of her perfume and shampoo .
he thought the perfume may be wild musk , his favorite .
i hope you never collect your prize , tommy , she said softly as she began to overheat .
tommy picked her up in his arms .
me too , he whispered as he lay her down gently on the bed , then lay down beside her and gathered her into his arms .
cramer arrived in tulsa at two oclock in the morning .
he found a motel room for a week and slept until noon the following day .
by one oclock in the afternoon he was sitting in a restaurant eating lunch .
by three oclock he was sitting in a bar drinking beer and talking to first one person then another .
he was a good judge of character .
by five oclock he was talking to a man about handguns and rifles .
by seven oclock he was paying the man five hundred dollars for a scoped .30 .30 winchester , lever action rifle not his favorite choice for a sniper rifle , but he figured it would kill tommy lesade just as dead as the best sniper rifle in the world .
he spent a few hours the next day in the country around a town named chouteau zeroing in the scope .
it wasnt far off at a hundred yards , which is about what he figured his shot would be .
by noon he was driving south on highway 82 headed for tahlequah and one last tommy lesade .
unbeknownst to him kalief goldman was making the same connection in tel aviv , israel , concerning one tommy lesade in tahlequah , oklahoma .
as cramer entered the outskirts of tahlequah and drove past the indian hospital , then past the university kalief was boarding a plane for the united states .
he would be in tahlequah in less than twenty four hours .
cramer stopped at a restaurant for lunch and then began driving around town searching for west cherokee and house number 406 , where he hoped to find tommy lesade and convince him it was in his best interest , and the best interest of his loved ones , to return him his money immediately .
by two oclock he was cruising past the house for the second time in an hour first one way , then the other .
he had seen no activity around the house and there was no vehicle in the driveway , but the garage door was closed , he noted .
in a custom van with tinted windows a block away , special agent fredrick wright took note of the new lincoln that had passed for the second time in an hour .
he wrote down the license plate number and called it in .
within five minutes he knew the car had been rented in washington , d.c. by niles cramer .
he notified the other four agents in the area assigned to the detail and they began to watch the lincoln closely .
there was nothing more they could do .
cramer hadnt broken any laws , yet .
as cramer cruised by the house for the second time he decided to come back to the house after dark .
he figured the occupants would be home by ten .
he planned to watch them for a day or so and get to know them by sight .
unless the man who lived here was the tommy lesade he intended to kill .
if there was a wife or kids , he could take one , or both , as bargaining chips , to make lesade either return his money , or at least exchange himself for them .
then , he could make tommy do as he wished .
cramer drove to a motel on the outskirts of muskogee and took a room for three days , with an option to extend his stay if need be .
he ate supper at a local restaurant and returned to the motel for a few hours .
at eight oclock he drove back to tahlequah to do a little surveillance work .
he had to be sure before he acted .
grabbing the wrong person would gain him nothing at all .
he had to know he had the right tommy lesade .
he didnt want to kill an innocent person unless that person got in the way .
if that happened they were fair game in any game of war .
and this was a game of war !
plain and simple .
five minutes after cramer had driven past tommys house for the second time , an fbi agent was knocking on his door to let him know that cramer had been spotted in the area .
tommy had thanked him for the update and offered him and his partners coffee , then said good night .
as he closed the door he felt his adrenaline begin to flow as it had in iraq .
his heart seemed to be beating slightly harder .
he seemed to be more aware of his surroundings .
he even sensed himself more profoundly as he walked back through the house to the bedroom .
it was as if he was more there , more solidly fixed in the present .
more alive !
lisa , they spotted cramer driving past the house about ten minutes ago .
be alert .
stay away from the windows .
theres no telling what he may do .
or try , he told her calmly , as he slid the closet door back .
inside , stored on the top shelf was his army issue colt .45 model 1911 .
he slid the clip into the grip and jacked a round into the chamber , then placed the weapon on safe .
he walked back through the house to the living room .
he went to the computer and activated the security system .
instantly several views of the house and yard appeared on four monitors .
the images began to move as the strategically placed cameras began to sweep the house and yard .
movement sensors would sense any movement large enough to be a human being and instantly sound an alarm .
one of the cameras in that sector would instantly lock onto the movement and follow it as it neared .
the image would be locked on the monitor and that sector would be flooded by a blinding brilliant light that would incapacitate the intruder until he could be subdued and apprehended .
if another movement alarm sounded , two of the cameras would self release from the first alarm and lock on to the second alarm .
they would be met there by two additional cameras programmed to monitor that area .
their images would be displayed on one of the other screens in four sections .
if multiple alarms sounded , each camera would monitor its assigned area .
the four computer monitors would then be shared by eight cameras on split screens .
as the moving object , or objects , advanced across the yard the cameras would follow all the way to the house , then the internal cameras and alarms would take over .
tommy sat in his chair and began to watch the inactivity of his surrounding yard and house .
absolutely nothing moved on the full color screens , not a bird , a stray cat or dog .
not even a moth headed for the light .
he wasnt even sure there were insects in his yard .
even though the views were crystal clear , it seemed he was looking at the house and yard through four paneless windows .
it was eerie , in a sense .
sandy borne and melissa jackson had been spending a lot of time together since that first night .
they were quickly becoming inseparable .
the day following their interview with tommy they were still talking about their free shots they had each given him in his living room .
they found discussing their memories enhanced their own desire for each other .
even now , as they drove back to hominy with a warrant for the arrest of warden john chambers , melissa could not prevent her hand from resting on sandys thigh .
she slid it casually back and forth , her fingers caressing the silky smooth skin on the inside of sandys thigh .
her fingers and palm gradually slid higher and higher , slowly inching sandys skirt higher and higher .
sandy smiled with pleasure .
she spread her knees a little farther apart and melissa took advantage of the better access and her hand slid up and into sandys crotch .
melissa found her open and wet with desire .
she delicately caressed the hard nodule of flesh exposed from its hiding place in the satiny folds of skin .
if you keep doing that , im going to bust !
sandy said passionately , biting her lower lip gently and hunching her groin forward onto the encroaching finger .
melissa laughed teasingly and withdrew her finger .
sandy moaned with disappointment .
youre lucky were not far from the prison , melissa teased .
otherwise id have your heels in the air .
its just ahead , sandy said .
youre the lucky one .
if we werent so close id pull over and make you finish what you started , hussy !
that would be my pleasure , sweetie , melissa said seriously , then winked and licked her lips hungrily .
sandy laughed and said , you just wait until tonight , girl .
youll be sorry !
oh , i doubt that , she smiled back , as sandy turned the car left off the main highway and started down the long driveway to the connors unit .
here we come , ready or not , warden chambers , sandy said , as she pulled into a parking place near the front of the building .
i wonder if hes expecting us , melissa mused , as they got out and started for the entrance .
i sure hope not , sandy laughed .
i just love the look of total surprise and disbelief on their faces when they realize they were caught with their pants down , she added , as melissa held the door for her .
me , too , melissa agreed , then stepped in behind her and walked beside her to the reception desk .
hi ladies , the guard on duty at the desk smiled .
who are you here to see ?
im special agent borne and this is my partner agent jackson , fbi .
were here to see warden john chambers , she finished holding her badge and identification up for the guard to inspect .
melissa did the same .
the guard ignored them for the most part .
he left yesterday about noon .
he hasnt been seen since .
his house has been vacated and some of his personal belongings are missing , as is his car .
sorry , the guard said , paling slightly , placing both hands on the counter edge , as if to hold himself erect .
any idea where he might have gone ?
sandy asked .
not a clue .
i did hear that he came into a lot of money , though , he offered helpfully .
do you mind if we have a look in his office ?
melissa asked .
can i see the warrant ?
melissa produced it from her purse and handed it to him .
he read it and handed it back .
follow me , please , he said , then turned and came from behind the desk and led them down the hallway to the office .
on the computer screen flashed the words , bye bye !
run johnny run !
sandra laughed .
melissa and the guard joined in .
they turned and left the office .
sandy and melissa walked past the reception desk and out the door .
melissa went to the drivers door and got in .
sandy settled in on the passenger side and smiled over at melissa , pay back time , she said seductively .
you wouldnt dare !
melissa laughed as she fastened her shoulder strap and closed the door .
she hiked her skirt up high and started the engine .
oh , wouldnt i ?
sandy laughed .
before they reached the end of the parking lot , sandys hands were in action one for each of them .
ex warden john chambers ran for his life .
there was no way he could spend the rest of his life inside a system he had helped to create and bring into the twentieth century .
especially for something he hadnt done !
that system was for the losers the scum of society .
he certainly wasnt one of them !
he had done nothing wrong !
he couldnt explain how the money had come to be in his possession .
he certainly hadnt put it there .
he knew nothing about it .
but , he had seen the system work before and it wasnt in the best interests of the accused .
so he knew , no matter what he said or did , he would not be believed , just as the millions of others before him had not been believed .
in modern america , one was guilty until proven , beyond a shadow of a doubt , innocent .
yes , john chambers knew the system was jam packed with men and women , who didnt , in any way , belong there .
they , like him , had gotten caught up in circumstances beyond their control , then were left alone to fend for themselves against an oppressor , who paraded as a liberator , who could care less about civil , constitutional or human rights , and who they had not even a mere weak , spark of power to defend against , and an even lesser chance of defeating .
john chambers was smart enough to know that he had been entrapped by the beast and his doom was sealed .
he was a goner !
in situations like he was in , he knew the only defense was money , power and or connections .
he had none of the above , so he had chosen the only option he did have access to .
distance !
the very last option for a man in his position .
the greater the distance between him and his oppressor the better his chances of survival maybe .
the mexico border was a mere half an hour ahead .
he had been driving since late yesterday evening when he had come to the conclusion about what he must do .
he had taken what money he had and a few must have possessions and had hit the highway running south as fast as the speed limit would allow .
in this case it was 85 mph for cars and 65 for trucks .
he was pushing it a little , as all drivers did .
the mexico border was getting closer with every revolution of his tires .
his only stops had been for fuel , for both him and the car .
he was awash in strong black coffee and still his eyes drooped from time to time .
he had bought a few snacks at the last rest area he had stopped at to relieve his bladder .
these helped to relieve the acid of worry that ate relentlessly at his stomach like a live rat in a basket strapped to his stomach .
his money was mostly gone .
the feds had seized his bank accounts before he even knew it was gone .
he had five thousand dollars left to build his new life upon in mexico , or parts farther south .
there was only one way he could turn five grand into a decent nest egg illegal drugs !
they were a necessary evil of the american economy despite what the government raged .
he did not personally use , love , hate or abide them .
but , he understood the war on drugs was nothing but an economic front for the government .
after all was said and done , if drugs were legalized , where would the governments thousands of employees who fought against them , find new employment ?
certainly not in america .
therefore he knew the war on drugs was a loser .
hell , anyone who cared to look closely could see it a mile away and recognize it for what it was a grand illusion !
the prisons were overcrowded and ready to explode into violence at any second and still the government continued to pack them into their inhumane warehouses as if they were nothing more than sides of beef .
then held guns on them to keep them from objecting .
then to add insult to injury forced them to serve 85 of their sentence before they would be considered for release .
on a thirty year sentence a person must serve 26 calendar years before he could be released .
in most cases , he was beyond sixty years old and after half his lifetime in prison , he was released with no prospects .
what was he expected to do ?
his family was , for the most part , dead .
he was all but forgotten .
his children were grown with families of their own .
they wanted nothing to do with a person they neither knew nor wanted .
he was adrift in a society he didnt know or understand .
his only option was more crime or homelessness on the streets to survive out of dumpsters .
john knew that wasnt going to be the life for him , so he sped for the border as fast as his dodge ram would carry him .
in america , under an assumed name , the best he could hope for would be a minimum wage job .
he knew that wasnt even surviving .
that was merely existing .
in that case , ones only option was to have a little something on the side .
usually that meant selling a little something illegal .
that something was usually illegal drugs to willing buyers .
those willing buyers would get them somewhere if that was their desire , which it obviously was or there wouldnt be a need for so many dealers and so much drugs .
as he drove along at eighty five miles per hour he wondered just how long it was going to take the american people to wake up to the fact that the american government was just as corrupt , if not more so , than any other in the world .
just because they shouted democracy in loud voices , from coast to coast , did not make democracy a reality .
john viewed it much as he viewed religion , in that satans greatest trick was to convince the people that he didnt exist .
likewise , the american governments greatest trick was to make the american people believe they were living in a democratic society .
both were false .
there was evil in the world and there were electoral votes to cancel out individual votes so that the popular vote no longer mattered .
so , american leaders were not chosen by the people , for the people .
they were chosen for the people by the ruling elite , selected by the multinational corporations if they toed the line and sold their souls to the devil in exchange .
its all bullshit !
smoke and mirrors , john thought as his eyes once again grew heavy .
deceive the poor and ignorant into slavery for the government and call it democracy the american way .
shout it loud enough , often enough and long enough and soon the slaves began to believe it and echo it until they were in time with the originators .
of course the politicians had to keep a serious , solemn and straight face and the gullible , ignorant masses would kill for and worship at the feet of the great deceiver .
power , john thought , its all about power .
getting it and keeping it .
and most of all , using it for self elevation , no matter who was trampled underfoot in the race for the top of the heap .
john was so deep in angry thought that he failed to notice he had drifted over the median line of the highway and into the path of a parked eighteen wheeler until it was much too late .
his right foot left the accelerator petal , and the steering wheel moved fifteen degrees , as the front bumper of the car entered under the rear end of the trailer at 85 miles per hour .
it continued under the trailer until it slammed into the rear tandem axle and stopped dead .
the rear end of the car slammed up nearly three feet in the sudden stop .
the rear door of the trailer stopped at the top of the front seat .
the only thing that stopped john from being propelled from the vehicle was the fact that his face had made near instant contact with the oncoming doors .
they stopped his forward plunge , but in the end , as the car stopped , his head flew over the back seat and out the rear window of the car .
it was instantly smacked by the front bumper of an oncoming , but sliding , car bumper that had managed to slow from 85 miles per hour to 81 miles per hour .
johns head was slammed between the dual tires of the tractor and would be found three hours later when a highway patrolman noticed the tires appeared to be bleeding .
the steering wheel collapsed around the steering column , as it was designed to do .
but johns instant forward momentum caught him at the bottom of his chest and entered his chest cavity at 84.9 miles per hour .
almost instantly his chest was slammed against the back doors of the trailer and the steering column ripped through his groin as the trailer shoved him off the column and pushed his head back over the top of the front seat .
his face shattered like a ripe apple shot from a cannon at a concrete wall .
the contact lasted a mere millionth of a second before his skull shattered into a million pieces .
but , john chambers was long dead by that time .
his spirit had fled his body before the impact with the trailer .
his limp , lifeless , shattered body fell across the dash of the car and his remaining lifeblood began to puddle onto the crumpled hood and then drain off to the ground to mix with the engine oil , antifreeze , transmission fluid and gasoline from the mangled and ruined drive train .
gasoline shot from the ruptured carburetor and fuel line and splashed onto the exceedingly hot exhaust manifold as the front of the car compressed and shoved the engine and transmission back through the firewall and into the front seat .
the engine compartment burst into flame with a loud wooofff , as john chambers was launched forward into forever .
as johns severed head was slammed between the tires of the tractor , the drivers door jumped open and the drivers hand tooled western style , custom made boot , the top encased very tightly into the leg of levis , popped out and found support on the chrome plated step rail along under the door .
the driver never saw johns head , but his eyes almost popped out of his head as he saw the oncoming , sideways car bearing down on him .
his custom made boot barely made it back inside the cab before the oncoming car came sliding down the front of the tractor and sheared the drivers door off at the hinges , then continued to spin around the front of the tractor and off into the right of way along the right hand side of the highway .
it would be fifteen minutes before the texas highway patrol would arrive .
he had to drive from the border crossing .
when he arrived , it was the first time in his fifteen year career as a state trooper that he became violently ill .
the headless body in the car was burned beyond recognition .
the only link they would have to his identity would be the license plate on the rear of the car .
the truck driver was sitting petrified behind his steering wheel he had gotten out to check for survivors .
he was wondering if he would be listed among them .
the woman in the passing car that had smacked johns severed head and then slid down the side of the truck , nearly defooting the truck driver , sat in the door of her car and chain smoked from a pack of camel filters .
five minutes after getting control of himself , trooper delbert englebright learned that the deceased was warden john chambers of the oklahoma department of corrections .
he was wanted for embezzling state funds .
he was found not guilty , as a matter of course and buried at state expense with full honors in the state capitol since he had no family .
chapter 10 cramer drove slowly past tommy lesades residence .
he circled the block , and then parked halfway down the block behind a custom van with tinted windows .
he could plainly see the front of tommys house from his vantage point .
he picked up the new spotting scope from the seat beside him and brought it to his eye .
he began to search the front of the house , starting along the front , from side to side .
he spotted two dim red lights under the eaves of the roof one at each end of the house .
security cameras , he thought .
that complicated matters considerably .
he slowly moved the scope along the side of the house , then down to the lawn , across , back and back up the side of the house to the eve .
halfway down he spotted two more cameras , both were moving slowly .
when he was satisfied he had seen everything he could from this vantage point , he started the car and drove slowly along the street .
he could see faint light around some of the window curtains as he drove slowly past the front .
that didnt necessarily mean anyone was home , but it did mean the house wasnt vacant .
down the street he turned the car around and approached the house from the other direction .
when he could see the front door he pulled to the curb and parked .
he began to scope the side of the house .
almost immediately he spotted the cameras .
they were the same as the others .
two small faint red lights under the eve at each end and in the middle .
as he watched the red lights he noticed one was making a slow arc along the wall .
roving , he thought , as he began to sweep the side of the house , slowly working his way down the wall to the yard , then across to the edge of the yard .
he also scoped the entire front of the house again .
satisfied , he started the car and drove off slowly .
he decided he would have to think about the security cameras and how to get around them .
it was the unforeseen obstructions that flawed a perfect plan .
a surprise attack on the house would be impossible with the cameras watching everything .
he would never know who might be watching the monitors .
explosives , he wondered .
no , i dont know if its the right target or not .
no innocent people .
im not a murderer !
he drove slowly around tahlequah while he considered his options .
he familiarized himself with the street layout as he drove , so he could make a quick exit if necessary .
he learned tahlequah wasnt very big when after ten minutes of slow driving , he was on the other side and heading for a town named wagoner .
he turned around and started slowly back .
he turned left at a traffic light .
the street curved in a long s and he passed by the college campus and indian hospital .
he knew where he was , sort of .
he turned around and started back toward west cherokee street he couldnt think of a way around the security cameras .
he drove back along the street to the traffic light , turned left and drove out of town and back to muskogee .
his mind churned the problem over and over the entire way .
special agent fred wright couldnt believe his eyes when the new lincoln pulled up behind his van and parked .
his heart began to race and his breathing began to speed up .
he moved very slowly inside the van , not wanting to cause any movement of the vehicle body .
he noticed his hands shook slightly , something that had never happened before .
im getting too old for this kind of work !
he told his partner , jim stevens , a twenty year veteran of the fbi , in a soft voice .
i know what you mean , fred , stevens whispered back , as he picked up a camera , aimed it through the window and began shooting frame after frame at the occupant of the new lincoln .
you have the right camera ?
fred asked .
yeah , daylight on the right .
dark on the left , he answered , looking over his shoulder to be sure .
he turned back and started snapping pictures again .
our boys got a spotting scope on the front of the house .
not illegal , fred replied seriously , almost to himself .
yet , he added , hopefully .
ah oh !
our boys leaving , jim said , taking pictures of the license plate when the lincoln backed up far enough .
he continued snapping pictures as the car pulled out and slowly drove down the street .
we better alert lesade that the villain is in the area , fred said , as the lincoln moved down the street .
hold on , brake lights !
jim said quickly .
they both watched as the car turned around and started back toward them .
they continued to watch as it pulled to the side of the street and parked .
the headlights blinked out .
everything grew quiet again .
they sat and watched in silence .
go ahead and call lesade .
let him know cramers out here and whats happening , jim said , putting a new roll of film in the camera .
maybe wed better wait for a few minutes to see what hell do next , fred replied .
he may move again .
right , jim replied , setting the camera aside .
he moved the camera case around in the seat and removed a telescopic lens from one of the pockets .
he looked through the lens at the lincoln parked in front of them .
i dont understand , jim said .
hes just sitting there scoping the front of the house .
maybe trying to verify his target , fred suggested .
yeah , or checking out the security .
he wont be able to get past that without being seen .
our boy is moving again , jim said , seeing the exhaust fume from the tail pipe as the engine started .
then the headlights came on and the lincoln pulled away from the curb .
the lincoln drifted toward them slowly .
it turned left at the intersection and drifted into the night like a great white shark in the deep blue sea .
well , what now ?
fred asked , watching the lincoln drift out of sight .
we wait , jim answered calmly .
better call lesade and let him know , he added , moving back into the captains chair seat and relaxed .
he was getting sleepy and hungry .
notify the locals for a routine stop and look ?
fred asked , as he punched lesades number into his cell phone .
contact the others and let them know what we saw , fred added .
might as well .
im getting tired of this already .
its been a long day , jim complained , turning the radio on and removing the microphone from the dash mount .
tommy listened closely to the fbi agent .
he stared at the monitors .
they were the deadest television he had ever watched .
the cameras inched along slowly , showing the same areas over and over .
the landscape was lifeless , except for the occasional night bird , bat or bug that flew by .
when the fbi agent finished talking tommy thanked him for the update , and then turned his cell phone off .
he leaned back in his chair and continued staring at the monitors .
two hours later he got up and walked through the dark house to the bedroom .
the digital clock on the bedside table read 2 23 a.m. lisa was sound asleep , secure in the belief that tommy could and would keep her safe from all evil .
he looked down at her sleeping face and realized that she was just as beautiful asleep as she was wide awake .
she looks so peaceful , he thought .
like a child , or an angel in a painting .
he smiled then lowered himself gently onto the bed so he wouldnt disturb her sleep .
he slowly drifted off to sleep , trusting the security system and the men outside about as far as he could throw a 55 chevy hardtop .
but he could not be at his peak if he was exhausted and sleep deprived .
mostly he needed his rest for his three hour morning ritual .
he worked out with some weight , never exceeding three hundred pounds , and then did calisthenics for an hour followed by his martial arts program he had devised for his individual needs .
at exactly five oclock his eyes snapped open .
he gently removed lisas arm from across his chest .
she grunted in her sleep , then turned over and continued to sleep .
he patted her bottom gently then got up .
he was ready for whatever the day may bring .
what he wasnt expecting was austin lake to show up on his doorstep with linda in tow .
colonel lake , what a surprise .
come in , come in .
make yourself at home , he said at the door when he opened it and saw them standing there .
he offered his hand , and then pulled the big colonel to his chest .
on the street behind them was a pickup truck hooked to a very well packed u haul trailer .
it looked as if they had come to stay .
hello , tommy .
its good to see you again , austin said as he hugged tommy back and pounded him on the back while shaking his hand vigorously .
linda you get more beautiful every day , tommy said , pulling her into his arms and kissing her cheek , then a tap on her lips .
my how you white boys do carry on !
she laughed hugging him back tightly and kissed his cheek , then hugged him again and kissed his lips .
i just love having a big strong man in my arms !
she whispered , laughing softly , as she patted his butt with one hand and his broad muscular back with the other .
watch her tommy , austin warned .
shell be taking your vitals if you dont .
and she dont use a thermometer in the mouth to take a temperature , either , austin laughed .
none of my nurses in iraq or germany were this beautiful .
ill submit willingly to whatever she wants to do to me !
yep , just as i thought !
theres a sucker born every minute !
tommy and linda laughed , looking into each others eyes affectionately .
linda lake was indeed a beautiful woman .
her color was a golden tan .
her body , short slim and firm with curves in all the right places .
her eyes a topaz gold that sparkled like diamonds .
ill get lisa .
its time she was up and around anyway .
its almost nine oclock anyway .
coffees in the kitchen , through there , he added over his shoulder as he left the room , pointing .
fifteen minutes later tommy was back .
he had showered , shaved and dressed in blue jeans and a pullover polo shirt .
so , you folks find everything alright ?
he asked as he entered the kitchen .
itd be hard not to in this little kitchen , linda teased playfully .
it is a little small , tommy agreed looking around .
but i prefer to call it cozy .
itll be real cozy when lisa squeezes in here , linda smiled .
but i wont mind as long as im standing next to you , tommy , she winked hugely .
linda behave .
all youve talked about since we left austin , is tommy lesade !
youve never even met him before .
you dont even know him , austin laughed playfully .
give me time , austin !
im working on it .
and i am a quick study , when it comes to gorgeous men !
she teased back , patting austin on the shoulder .
tommy is private property !
trespassers will be ... shall we say ... dealt with ?
lisa said seriously as she walked into the kitchen .
well said , linda laughed .
you see austin , you have nothing to worry about .
as long as lisas around .
its when shes not around that worries me .
he said over his coffee cup .
he blew the steam across it , then sipped the scalding black brew carefully .
they all laughed like old friends .
ill bet you folks are about starved , lisa said , changing the subject .
i dont know what i am , more starved , or more exhausted , linda sighed , looking meanly at austin .
and its all his fault !
he drove all night and only stopped once for gas , she accused further .
how would you know ?
you slept the whole way , he responded playfully .
it was easy for tommy and lisa to see that linda and austin got along like an old married couple .
lisa could tell that linda worshiped austin and it was easy for tommy to see that austin adored linda .
he knew they had been married for over thirty years .
and that said something for a military couple .
i wasnt asleep , linda retorted , just resting my eyes .
with your mouth open , snoring like a drunk lord ?
austin said skeptically .
i dont snore , austin !
you beast !
honey , i had to roll the windows down to keep them from shattering !
he went on playfully , feeding the fire , then sipped his coffee calmly as if repeating gospel truth , his face serious as a fire and brimstone baptist preacher .
tommy and lisa laughed at the easy banter of the couple .
linda sat stiff and indignant , staring incredulously at her husband .
when he continued to sip his coffee undisturbed , she smiled at him with love in her eyes .
hes all talk , linda said , looking sheepishly at her hosts .
so , how about some eggs and bacon , toast and cereal ?
lisa asked everyone , looking around the small table .
everyone agreed , so she and linda got up and got busy .
linda relax , i know youre exhausted .
ill take care of everything , lisa said .
nonsense , honey .
i slept the whole way !
she whispered aside to lisa conspiratorially while waiting to be told what to do .
in that case , you can do the toast , lisa laughed .
well close on the property , friday , tommy said over breakfast .
then find a designer and builder and start construction as soon as possible .
we should be up and running in six months or so , he added .
what breed of horses are you going to raise ?
austin asked .
we havent decided for sure .
but probably morgan or appaloosa , lisa said , looking at tommy for confirmation .
everyone around here raises quarter horses .
so , we thought wed do something different , tommy said , shrugging his shoulders undecidedly .
well have plenty of room .
six hundred acres with an option to buy a thousand more connecting to the first five hundred , tommy said , and then began to describe the ranch he had in mind .
after thirty minutes , breakfast was finished and they sat around over their dirty dishes talking about everything that came to mind until the conversation began to drag .
tommy and lisa could see that austin was exhausted and refused to admit it .
well , colonel , youd better get some rest before you fall in your plate , tommy joked .
show me the way , austin replied , then stood from the table and waited to be shown to their room .
on the way to the guest bedroom , tommy explained about cramer and the vigil he was keeping and the fbi presence outside .
so , we need to keep linda and lisa inside until cramer is caught or otherwise dealt with .
if and when he makes his move it will be settled decisively , once and for all , tommy continued as he opened the bedroom door .
well talk more later .
for now , get some rest .
you need it .
if you need me , ill stay up , austin offered , his eyes coming open wide .
youll get your chance .
for now you need some sleep .
so get it while you can , colonel .
just the same , call me if you need me .
i still sleep light .
will do .
see you later , tommy said , then turned and went back into the kitchen and the girls .
he stopped in the door and watched them for a minute , listening to their quiet conversation .
then turned and went to his computer and the security monitors .
he sat down and began watching the slow , steady passing of the yard and surrounding areas .
cramer was up and eating breakfast by 9 00 am the following morning .
he had devised a plan that he believed would work .
after breakfast he drove to a car rental office and exchanged the lincoln for a blue mini van , then drove back to the motel .
he loaded his personal effects and the rifle into the van and drove back to tahlequah .
at a small tractor repair shop on the north side of town he paid the owner five hundred dollars to use his welding equipment for a few hours .
within an hour and a half he had devised and built a silencer for the winchester rifle .
he was confident it would work for the purpose he had in mind .
he drove further out of town to a lonely wooded area that he thought was secluded .
he walked into the woods with the rifle and silencer .
after affixing the silencer to the rifle , he picked a small tree and test fired the rifle .
the sound was like a muffled hand clap .
the rifle also shot slightly high and to the right .
he made a few small adjustments to the scope , then fired again .
it was dead on target once again .
he smiled with satisfaction .
he returned to the van and drove back to town for lunch .
after lunch he drove back to the area of tommys house .
from a side street he was able to see one side and the back of the lesade residence .
he parked along the street and moved to the back of the van .
he slid a rear window open about four inches and rested the end of the silenced barrel in the corner of the window frame .
he sighted carefully through the scope and finding the camera under the back corner of the roof , he aligned the cross hairs on it and gently squeezed the trigger .
the camera exploded in a shower of glass and plastic when the .30 .30 slug hit it .
the sound was almost inaudible .
cramer smiled to himself and sighted on the next two cameras .
they also exploded in a spray of debris .
for the first time in years tommy lesade was blind and vulnerable .
cramer drove the van down the alley behind the house and parked .
taking the rifle he approached the rear of the house near the blind corner .
he noticed the back door was open , but the screen door closed , but not locked he discovered when he tried it .
he opened the storm door carefully and stepped inside the house , then eased it closed gently behind him .
it didnt latch .
as he stepped into the kitchen lisa entered with an armload of folded dish towels .
they fell soundlessly to the floor when she saw cramer and the leveled rifle .
she took a deep breath for her call to tommy .
itll be the last sound you make , he promised coldly .
the call failed to materialize .
it died in a sudden intake of breath .
what do you want ?
she asked calmly .
my money !
and you to insure i get it , he replied softly , so as not to alert anyone in the house of his presence .
now , come on or ill kill you where you stand .
your choice , little lady .
lisa led cramer out the back door , across the back yard and out to the parked van .
she followed cramers directions and got in the drivers seat .
cramer walked around the front of the van , keeping the barrel of the silenced rifle pointed at her the whole time .
he opened the passenger door , got inside and told her where to drive .
lets go , he said , keeping the rifle trained on her head .
just follow my directions and you may survive this , he said , as she put the van in gear and drove off down the alley .
tommy and linda had been sitting in the living room talking .
lisa was doing a load of laundry .
austin was in the guest room asleep .
no one noticed three of the monitors blink out one after the other .
they all heard three solid thumps against the house .
tommy and linda both assumed the sounds were made by lisa .
several minutes later she walked through the living room with an arm load of clean and neatly folded dish towels , headed for the kitchen .
after ten minutes , when lisa hadnt returned , and had made no noise , linda began to worry .
id better go check on lisa .
that girl done got hung up on something !
she said , standing and heading for the kitchen .
she was back instantly .
shes gone , tommy .
the dish towels are in a pile on the floor !
she said , fear and worry in her voice and expression .
tommy stood immediately .
he saw three of the monitors were showing white snow .
he hurried for the kitchen .
on the floor were the dish towels .
he looked at the back door and saw that it wasnt latched .
he stepped out and looked around the back yard .
he saw three of the security cameras were busted , hanging loosely on their wire .
cramer !
he whispered , running along the side of the house to the street and the parked custom van .
lisas gone !
he said urgently as the door slid open and fred stuck his head out .
what do you mean , gone ?
he asked skeptically .
i mean gone !
as in not here anymore !
you mean dead ?
fred asked concern strong in his voice .
no !
goddamnit !
i mean gone !
as in taken from here !
are you stupid , or deaf , or what ?
tommy said calmly , deadly .
the blue mini van !
jim said , his head behind freds .
its the only vehicle in the area in the past twenty minutes or so .
it had to be him !
ill alert the others to be on the lookout , he added , picking up the microphone and making the call .
he wants me , not her , tommy said .
hell call .
im going back inside to wait , he continued , then turned and ran back inside the house .
his wait wasnt long .
fifteen minutes passed since he had reentered the house .
he paced around carrying the cell phone until it buzzed in his hand .
hello ?
he answered impatiently .
well , well , captain lesade .
its been a while .
seems like we both have something that belongs to the other , cramer said calmly , like an old friend .
im willing to make an exchange , if you are .
who are you and what do you want ?
tommy asked , playing dumb .
ill exchange this strikingly beautiful piece of ass for all of my money back .
what money ?
now , now , captain .
dont be coy .
i havent the patience for it .
this cunt means nothing to me .
ill kill her with pleasure after i destroy her mentally and physically .
your choice , cramer said calmly .
tommys mind raced wildly .
his thought processes and decision making functions were in hyper drive .
what do you say , captain .
i dont have forever .
what will it be ?
the money or the girl ?
last chance , captain hero , cramer taunted sadistically .
how do you want to do it ?
tommy asked .
ill let you know , cramer said , then clicked off .
tommy went straight to the computer to activated the failsafe .
he entered the long code and brought up the program , then activated the failsafe he had written and from there went to his phone tracing program and activated it .
this program automatically traced the phone call back to its origin .
the failsafe would transfer all of the money to any destination in the world .
exactly thirty minutes later , it would transfer it all back to its point of origin .
it would also record the exact address of the inquiring party .
with everything ready and waiting , he sat back and waited .
the cursor on his computer screen flashed off and on patiently .
it had forever .
ten minutes later tommys cell phone buzzed .
he answered it , noticing austin fully dressed , sitting in a chair sipping a cup of coffee .
he had no idea how long he had been there .
heres how well do it , captain , cramer said when tommy answered the call .
write this account number and web address down .
transfer all the money there .
ill verify the transaction in ten minutes .
if its complete ill release the girl and walk away .
if its not ill kill the bitch and come for you .
understood ?
i gave half of the money to the veterans around the world , cramer , tommy said .
i was wondering where my extra ten grand came from , he mused .
well !
i suppose i can manage on whats left , he laughed .
whats the address and account number ?
as cramer gave it tommy typed it into the computer .
when it was complete he confirmed it , and then sent it on its way .
its on its way , cramer , tommy said .
if you harm the girl in any way , theres no place on earth you will be safe .
so , never stop looking over your shoulder .
and never go to sleep .
ill be there !
ooohhhh , you talk so mean , captain lesade .
to be honest , im really scared !
not !
anyway , you made the right decision .
see ya !
cramer was gone .
on the screen appeared the address of where the call had originated .
it was a motel on the outskirts of town .
tommy knew exactly where it was .
he went through the kitchen and into the garage to his new dodge ram .
he backed out as the door was going up .
his tires squealed and smoked as he raced down the driveway in reverse .
they continued to smoke and scream as he hit the street , the front end of the truck slid around to point down the street .
he slammed it into drive and the tires began to smoke , boil and scream as he raced to the rescue .
the van parked along the street pulled out and followed the truck closely .
the driver assumed lesade knew where he was going and meant to get there in the next two seconds !
agents fred wright and jim stevens hadnt heard a word about the blue van , lincoln , or cramer since putting out the alert half an hour earlier .
it was barely noon and was shaping up to be a long , hot day .
luckily they would be relieved at noon to eat lunch , sleep , shower , and return at midnight to relieve their replacements .
they were surprised when the garage door began to open and the brand new dodge pickup began to smoke tires in reverse down the driveway and into the street like a stunt driver in some movie , then race down the street past them , engine roaring and tires still smoking like a dragster .
follow him if you can !
jim said , climbing into the front seat .
before he could get settled and buckled in fred had the van racing after the truck .
the chase led through backstreets and down alleys all the way across town .
tommy cautiously ran red lights and rolled through stop signs until he came out on highway 51 .
he turned right and raced toward wagoner , his tires smoking and the back end of the dodge ram turbo fishtailing as it fought for traction .
when the custom van reached the highway the ram was just a spec on the distant horizon .
fred and jim looked both ways then turned to follow the only vehicle in sight .
damn , that ram can sure run !
jim said , watching the spec disappear over the horizon .
ill call for back up .
dont lose him !
tommy knew the feds were on his tail as he left his driveway .
he didnt care .
lisa was his only concern at the moment .
if they couldnt keep up , that was their problem .
he eased through red lights and stop signs as he weaved his way across town .
he emerged on highway 51 and raced west .
the motel was a couple of miles out on the right hand side of the highway .
cramer had obviously rented a room at the mom and pop motel .
then used the phone line to connect his laptop to the internet , thus accessed his account in pakistan .
as tommy topped the hill , he saw a light blue van leave the driveway of the motel and casually speed west toward wagoner .
tommy slowed and turned into the motel .
he slid to a stop in front of the office and ran inside .
the middle aged , attractive lady behind the desk looked up expectantly .
the blue mini van that just left .
what room was he in ?
room five , the woman answered smiling .
but , he hasnt checked out , yet , she continued to smile in a friendly , helpful way until tommy turned away and raced out the door toward room five , just down the way .
hey !
she screamed after him .
but it was too late .
he was gone out the door .
tommy didnt pause at the door , he busted through as if it were made of paper .
lisa lay on the bed , gagged and blindfolded , tied spread eagle on the bed .
she was fully dressed and didnt seem to have been harmed .
he removed the blindfold first and she began to cry when she saw it was him .
he then removed the gag and began to untie her wrists .
oh , tommy !
i knew you would come !
she cried happily , throwing her arms around his neck when he released her wrists .
they kissed passionately and hugged tightly .
when tommy saw and tasted her tears he began to get mad .
cramer had made this personal once again and now he would pay the piper .
tommy calmly untied lisas ankles and lifted her from the bed .
he led her outside as his anger raced through his mind like a wild wave of fire , incinerating everything in its path .
as they stepped out the door the custom van was rolling to a stop .
the lady from the front office was crossing the parking lot toward them .
she stopped in front of tommy , fists on hips and demanded angrily , whos gon na pay for my door ?
wheres cramer ?
jim asked , opening the door and stepping out .
gone , tommy replied , opening the sliding side door of the van and placing lisa gently inside .
wait here with these guys .
ill be back in a little while .
pay for the door .
tommy , where are you going ?
lisa asked suspiciously .
after him .
if i dont , hell be back .
hell just kill us next time , he slid the door closed and turned to the truck .
its not good to take the law into your own hands , lesade !
stevens warned him .
the law isnt very efficient from what ive seen , tommy replied , then slid into the dodge and rolled from the parking lot onto the highway .
whos gon na pay for my door ?
the woman demanded once again , looking straight at jim .
send a bill to tommy lesade , he shrugged .
tommy lesade ?
she asked skeptically .
no need to send a bill .
ill just call him .
hell make good , our tommy will , she turned and went back inside never once looking back .
stevens got in the van and closed the door .
it started slowly for the highway .
at the highway , a highway patrol car sped by , overheads flashing importantly .
damn , he must be moving around a hundred and twenty !
fred said , turning onto the highway and speeding in the direction tommy and the highway patrolman had gone .
he slowly gained speed in the heavy custom van .
in the distance , tommy saw a dot on the horizon .
he didnt know if it was cramer or not .
the front end of the truck seemed to float slightly off the pavement .
he glanced down at the speedometer and saw he was moving well over 120 miles per hour .
the needle had been pegged , then had been broke off and lay at o .
the dot on the horizon had begun to grow .
in his side view mirror , he saw another dot behind him .
it was growing rapidly , too .
on top of the dot behind him , an array of flashing lights identified his pursuer as a cop of some kind .
probably a state trooper , tommy thought , as the dot continued to get larger .
he could now make out the lights flashing wildly , as if they were in sync with the speed of the vehicle .
tommy figured the cop must be traveling at around 160 , he was sure gaining fast .
the flashing lights behind him began to appear as a vehicle .
once in a while sparks flew out from under the vehicle as it bottomed out on the pavement .
tommy revised his estimation and decided the cop must be nearing two hundred miles per hour the car seemed to be sitting on the highway .
within minutes the vehicle , a helmeted highway patrol unit was sitting on tommys rear bumper .
he could barely hear the hysterical warbling of the siren .
he ignored it .
cramer was not getting away scot free again !
in the distance , maybe a mile , tommy could see a blue spot .
it emerged into a mini van .
the same one that had left the motel parking lot earlier .
it had to be cramer .
tommy eased the ram into the left lane and began to catch up to the van .
the trooper stayed right with him , but stayed in the right lane .
when he was even with tommy , he motioned for him to fall back and pull over .
tommy ignored him and eased up beside the mini van .
he began to slow down and ease the ram slowly to the right .
the drivers window lowered .
it was cramer .
he struggled with something in the seat beside him with his right hand .
he raised it up across his chest , then lowered his hand and picked it up higher .
as it slid out the window tommy realized too late , that it was a rifle with a silencer on it .
he realized immediately what was going to happen .
the bullet from the .30 .30 entered through the fender .
it struck the engine block just below the exhaust manifold .
from there it ricocheted down and away in a u turn and hit the inside bottom of the tire .
the tire basically exploded off of the rim as the misshapen projectile entered the hot tire and released the hot air inside .
as luck would have it , as the projectile entered the tire , the tire dropped into a low spot in the highway , adding the weight of the vehicle to the release of hot air .
the tire was forcefully collapsed onto the rim of the wheel .
the edges of the wheel rim collapsed , sending a shower of sparks back under the truck and slicing cleanly through the hot rubber , gouging a deep furrow in the asphalt , turning the wheel sharply to the right and dug deeper into the asphalt .
it then bounced out of the depression , lifting the right front of the pickup and drifting it to the right .
the truck traveling forward at nearly 110 miles per hour became slightly airborne and began to roll as the rear end began to slide around to the left .
tommys last clear vision , as the truck became completely airborne , was of cramer smiling over the scope of the rifle .
then , tommys world began to spin , bounce and roll into darkness .
the highway patrolman , seeing what was happening in front of him , floor boarded his cruiser , and hit the blower and nitrous at nearly the same time , then began to swerve to the right , sliding the rear end of his car around in a broad side spin .
his last clear vision was of the dodge ram sliding , rolling , bouncing and tumbling end over end and side to side down the highway beside the blue mini van .
the cruiser clipped the right rear corner of the mini van with its left front fender as it passed .
the cruiser began to spin clockwise and the mini van began to spin counterclockwise .
it flipped almost immediately and joined the macabre ballet down the highway .
the cruiser spun wildly out of control down the side of the highway , then the front end caught on something and the rear end spun around until the front end was freed , then began to slide backwards at nearly 90 miles per hour .
the front end slowly slid around as the additional weight of the engine overcame the backward inertia .
when it was pointed forward the patrolman stomped the accelerator and hit the nitrous oxide system once again and thus , regained control of his cruiser .
in all it had made ten complete revolutions and never once threatened to turn over .
amazingly , his inside camera caught the whole thing on film for later confirmation of the superiority of the new prototype cruiser .
the mini van however , didnt fare so well .
when the left rear fender was clipped at one hundred miles per hour , the right rear corner of the mini van was lifted high and slid forward and to the right by the cruiser moving at nearly 130 miles per hour .
the mini van was spun broadside to the highway and began to roll over and over down the middle of the highway .
on its seventh tumble it topped a hill and was met broadside by an eighteen wheeler traveling east at 65 miles per hour .
the small van exploded and was then ripped in two pieces .
as the two vehicles tumbled and rolled down the highway , various pieces of each were thrown into the air as they came apart .
the eighteen wheeler fared far better that the other two .
on contact , the eighteen wheelers sudden decrease in tractor speed caused the heavily loaded box trailers tires to lose their grip on the highway .
the trailer , as a result , began to outrun the tractor that pulled it .
the front half of the mini van was caught in the pincer of the tractor and trailer coming together in a severe jack knife .
the pressure of this bent and warped the frames of the trailer and the tractor , totaling them both .
the back half of the mini van was batted off the highway by the rear end of the sliding trailer .
it came to rest , finally , beside tommys smoking , crumpled pickup .
for several seconds following the accident , nothing at all moved .
all was calm following the entire five second accident .
then , the left front door of the patrol cruiser opened and the patrolman stepped out .
in his hand was the radio microphone .
he looked around dizzily , and then began to request assistance as he surveyed the havoc around him .
he found it hard to focus on anything , but he knew it was a mess and there was death all along the highway .
three ten to base ?
he said into the microphone .
base , three ten , clear ?
came to female response .
base , we have a major .
one pickup truck , one occupant .
assumed deceased .
one mini van .
one occupant confirmed dead .
and one eighteen wheeler , one known occupant assumed , uninjured .
request assistance and life flight ambulance , earliest .
approximately one five miles west of tahlequah on highway 51 , over ?
ten four , three ten .
base clear .
patrolman clifford fisher knew the occupant of the mini van was history .
no one could have possibly survived that .
the driver of the rig was slowly climbing down from the conventional cab of the peterbilt .
he looked awfully pale .
he seemed to be alright , just severely shaken .
the pickup was iffy .
doubtful , but iffy .
he turned back and got in his cruiser and drove up closer to the accident .
he stopped and lit flairs as he neared the scene .
he stopped beside the rounded pickup and got out .
he approached cautiously , dreading what he was about to see .
he stilled himself , sniffing the air for the scent of spilled or leaking gasoline .
it was everywhere , mixed with the smell of heat and hot oil and burned rubber .
miraculously the truck had landed on its wheels , or what was left of them .
the top of the cab was smashed down almost to the doors .
the front of the cab was resting on the dashboard .
there were no windows left at all .
the body of the truck was rounded , crumpled , twisted on the frame and absolutely totaled from what the patrolman could see and gauge .
he reluctantly looked inside .
the occupant was a bloody twisted mess .
he didnt move at all .
the officer noticed a wrinkle on his shirt was moving in rhythm with his breathing barely .
he was breathing shallowly .
he was still alive for the moment .
looking at the body of the truck the officer knew he wouldnt be able to open the door on either side .
he removed his gun belt and laid it on top of his car , then began to climb into the truck through the drivers window .
he could get nothing through the window except his head , so backed out and waited for the fire department and the jaws of life .
hang on buddy , helps on the way , he said softly through the window frame .
hang in there , a voice said beside him .
when he turned to look , he saw it was the truck driver .
are you all right ?
officer fisher asked him .
yeah , i think so , he answered .
he gon na make it ?
i doubt it .
hes hurt bad .
the truck driver nodded his head sadly .
tammys dead , he said sadly .
your wife ?
fisher asked him .
no , my truck .
oh , fisher replied .
count yourself lucky .
trucks can be replaced .
not for me .
i had to make this load to make my payment and renew my insurance , he said sadly , shaking his head in bewilderment .
aint gon na happen now .
im through .
well , keep your head up , sir .
miracles happen .
hes proof , fisher said as tommy began to move around inside the cab .
the guy in the half of the minivan squished in my truck has a .30.30 rifle through his chest , he said conversationally .
hes moving , fisher said .
ill be damned !
guess youre right .
miracles do happen !
the trucker said in amazement , staring at tommy .
help should be arriving any minute , buddy .
just take it easy , fisher said , kneeling beside the drivers door .
cramer ?
tommy whispered softly .
whats that buddy ?
fisher asked , sticking his head inside .
blue van .
cramer .
dead ?
tommy whispered again .
yeah , hes dead .
you know him ?
fisher asked .
there was no response .
tommy had become unconscious , again .
fisher was amazed that he had a smile on his face .
five minutes later , as the two men watched , tommy was cut out of the truck .
he was breathing slowly and steadily .
they heard the warbling of the ambulance in the background .
over the warbling came the steady whop !
whop !
whop !
of a helicopter .
on the highway , lisa sat in the custom van crying .
the fbi agents refused to allow her close to the wrecked pick up .
when she saw tommys bloody body lifted from the truck , placed on a stretcher and rushed to the waiting helicopter , she whispered his name and reached out her trembling hand for him .
chapter 11 when tommy awakened , he was in a hospital room .
he was surrounded by flowers and friends .
he searched only for lisa .
whats this , my funeral ?
he asked softly .
lisa jumped up and leaned over tommys face .
no , sweetie .
not your funeral .
youre in the hospital , she replied , then kissed his lips .
im disappointed .
i thought you were an angel .
i am an angel .
your private angel .
theres an old saying that goes something like this .
after a long sleep , you get to keep the first angel you see upon awakening .
do i get to keep you ?
forever !
she promised , wiping tears from her cheeks .
how long have i been here ?
he asked .
three weeks and two days .
guess i wont be going home tomorrow ?
not tomorrow .
not next week .
you were hurt real bad , tommy .
that bad , huh ?
yeah , that bad .
tell me about it , so i can start the healing process .
where should i start ?
there were so many injuries !
she began to cry softly , again .
hey , hey , he soothed .
dont worry , ill be fine .
start at the top and go down to my feet .
okay ?
okay , she promised .
concussion , severe .
broken cheek bone and eye socket .
broken nose , broken collar bone .
broken arm , four broken ribs .
cracked pelvis , broken hip .
broken left ... thigh bone .
dislocated right knee .
broken right ankle .
collapsed lung , left .
ruptured spleen , bruised liver , kidneys , both of them .
two compacted vertebrae and a broken big toe , left , she said still wiping tears from her eyes .
thats not so bad , he smiled grimly .
it coulda been worse .
killed cramer , right ?
yeah , he was in ten pieces with a rifle stuck through his chest .
he was beheaded , too .
after a minute of reflection , he nodded his head and said weakly .
who is that man by the door ?
jacob .
the truck driver .
he hit cramer broadside .
whys he here ?
says he has no place to go .
he wants to make sure youre okay , i guess .
let me talk to him .
whats his name again ?
jacob ladder , she smiled , she looked around and motioned jacob over .
hi , jacob .
thanks for hanging around , tommy said , trying to pick his hand up from the bed .
my pleasure , captain , jacob said , reaching down and grasping tommys hand in his own and shaking it gently , but firmly .
im plumb proud pink sitting beside an injured brother !
brother ?
tommy inquired uncertainly .
yes , sir !
hunnert an first airborne , ranger , sir !
jacob stood at attention and saluted smartly .
all the way !
sir !
he added , dropping his salute and going immediately into parade rest .
where did you serve , jacob ?
tommy asked .
nam , sir !
cam ran bay , sir .
nineteen sementy one to nineteen sementy four .
i hauled supplies to the ranger boys down in the delta , sir !
thatd be the mekong delta ?
sir !
jacob said in confirmation .
what will you do now ?
seems im on the road to recovery .
dont know , sir .
tammys dead .
im broke , flat .
but , i believe in miracles , sir !
jacob said seriously .
you survived , sir !
that is a miracle in my book !
jacob , drop the sir .
call me tommy .
please !
yes sir .
.
.tommy .
whos tammy ?
was my truck .
why tammy and why is it dead ?
not it , she .
okay , she .
she ate every cassette tape i ever put in her tape player except one of tammy wynetts .
well , she ate it , too .
but , refused to spit it out again .
its still playin er was as we went into the slide that wound me up here .
i named her tammy outa respect she didnt eat that tape and spit it out in pieces , he continued wiping tears from his ruddy cheeks .
why is she dead ?
twisted frame , broken transmission , front axle , radiator , rear axle , and motor mounts .
no insurance .
i had to make that run to pay the premium for a year .
but , i didnt make it .
everything was fine till i topped that hill .
then , everything was gone !
he finished snapping his fingers .
maybe it was just time for a new start , jacob .
have you thought about that ?
now , how am i agonna start anything ?
i aint got no home , no money , no job !
where can i go ?
if it werent for your beautiful lady there , id be on the streets in a cardboard condo , eatin deli from a dumpster !
colonel , tommy said a little louder than he had been talking .
yeah , tommy ?
im here , austin answered standing beside lisa .
colonel do you feel like making a little trip with jacob ?
sure , tommy .
where are we going ?
lisa , drive jacob and the colonel to tulsa to the peterbilt dealership .
buy jacob any truck on the lot that he wants .
fully loaded .
custom , whatever .
buy a matching box trailer .
pay any expense .
taxes , license , road taxes , and insurance for a year , whatever , so they can be on the road tomorrow or the next day at the latest .
colonel , you and jacob drive to louisville , kentucky .
or tennessee somewhere and buy me the biggest , proudest , morgan stud and ten morgan brood mares you can find .
when you find them and make a deal , call lisa .
shell transfer the funds to the breeders bank .
load the stud in the trailer .
then build a wall , with a window so you can feed and water him , across it , then load the mares and come home .
by the time you get back , ill be out of here and the land will be ours .
tommy , i caint let you buy me no truck .
thatd be near a hunnert grand !
id never be able to pay you back !
jacob , youve waited by my bedside for three weeks because im your brother .
well , as of today , youre my brother .
i have billions of dollars to spend on those i care about .
and i care about you .
.
.
brother !
again tommy tried to lift his hand , and couldnt .
again jacob reached down and took it gently into his .
he squeezed it firmly and tommy squeezed it back .
now , you all be off .
ive got a lot of healing to do , he smiled finality in his voice , then fell asleep .
tommy drifted back in his mind to master wu .
he bowed over his clasped hands .
when master wu granted permission , tommy kneeled before him respectfully .
yes , young tommysan , what wisdom do you seek today ?
master , my body lies broken from defeating my enemy .
my mind and heart are strong .
my spirit soars like an arrow from an archers bow toward its enemy .
i wish to heal quickly so that i may fight and defeat my enemies as they appear .
i seek your wisdom in these matters , master , tommy stated .
young tommysan , if the heart , mind , and spirit remain strong , the body will heal itself in its own time .
you must always therefore , search your mind for your answers .
trust your spirit to guide you and your heart to give you the courage to do what is right .
that is the wisdom which creates all life in all realms of existence .
so go now , and search for truth .
you shall find it within yourself .
tommy rose .
after clasping his hands and bowing to master wu , he turned and walked away into the silvery nothingness that surrounded him .
tommy opened his eyes and looked around the hospital room .
lisa was asleep with her head resting on his hand .
she sat in a chair beside the bed to his left .
he reached over with his right hand and softly patted her hair and head .
he could not find words to express his love for this woman .
he smiled softly and drifted back into sleep to continue healing .
kalief goldman had few friends at cia headquarters in langley , virginia .
but he knew he had one he could always count on terri ashton .
her grandparents were from the old country and from a noble family .
she would help him find the man who had stolen all his friends money .
he knew he could count on her above all others .
kalief hung up the phone with a stare of disbelief in his eyes .
terri was on a full month leave of absence current whereabouts , unknown .
she had been gone for less than a week .
as much as he hated to , he had to wait .
there was no alternative .
he hadnt a clue where to start looking for his enemy in a land as large as the united states !
knowing he had no choice , he rented a room in a nice hotel and settled in to await terris return .
he hated waiting .
he was a man of action !
tommy awakened to a soft kiss on his lips lisa smiled as she looked lovingly into his eyes .
mornin , tommy said softly .
yes , my love .
time to get up and walk .
are you ready ?
yes , he replied , mentally preparing himself for the oncoming pain .
he pushed the blanket and sheet back .
lisa helped him to a sitting position , then helped him turn and hang his legs over the edge of the bed .
tommy was just starting to stand beside the bed when linda lake came bustling in .
she was dressed in pristine white from head to toe .
she was beautiful in tommys eyes .
so , you thought youd start without me , huh ?
well , guess again , buster !
she said sternly .
hi , sweetie , tommy smiled , happy to see linda again .
dont even try it buster boy !
i dont butter up easily .
besides , by tonight youll hate me .
i could never hate you .
dont bet your money on it , honey , she laughed evilly , as she took his right arm and helped lisa stand him up .
now , just stand there for a minute and flex your knees a little .
let them get used to holding your weight again , linda instructed .
with the first small flex he nearly crumpled to the floor .
whoa , he laughed .
im weaker than i thought .
five weeks flat on your back will do that to even the strongest .
most men wouldnt be able to stand at all , much less flex their knees , linda said proudly , looking up at tommy smiling lovingly .
she hugged him tightly to her side .
he hugged her back .
okay , tommy said , seriously .
lets step .
right leg first , he added as he prepared to step forward .
his leg didnt work exactly as he wanted it to .
he stood sort of spraddle legged .
he straightened up slowly and moved his left leg forward .
it didnt work much better , but , he didnt fall either .
he leaned heavily on lisa and linda for support .
linda had been right , he thought .
it was going to be a long day !
in kentucky , austin walked around and appraised the most beautiful two year old morgan stallion he had ever seen .
he wasnt just beautiful , he was majestic !
the stallion stood sixteen hands at the shoulders .
he held his head high , his ears forward and his eyes alert , seeing everything that moved .
his mane and tail were long and flowing austin lake was in love !
ill take him .
austin said .
ill have the money wired to your bank tonight and pick him up tomorrow , if thats alright with you , mister lane .
thatll be fine , mister lake , lane replied easily , as his groom led the stallion back to his paddock .
austin watched him walk away , memorizing every movement of the stallions magnificent body .
he knew some breeders would show their pride and joy , then try and pass off a ringer .
austin was there to ensure that didnt happen to him , or tommy .
austin turned to the brand new peterbilt tractor .
as always jacob was polishing on it .
he also was in love .
he was in love with tammy ii , his customized , midnight black with silver , red and gold highlights that flowed back into the trailer he pulled behind .
jacob , youre gon na polish all the shine off that truck if youre not careful .
no sir , colonel !
id never do anything to hurt tammy ii .
shes a beaut !
aint she ?
that she is , lake agreed , admiring the beautiful truck .
the deep dish chrome wheels sparkled and glowed like diamonds in the center of the jet black tires .
lets go jacob .
we bought us a stallion today .
tomorrow well head for home .
sounds good .
three weeks on the road is plenty for one trip , jacob replied , stuffing his diaper soft polishing rag into his back pocket and climbing up into the cab of the long roman nosed tractor .
he started the cummins diesel engine and listened to it rumble .
he buckled his seatbelt and shoulder strap , then eased the transmission into gear , released the brakes with a hiss of compressed air , scanned the gauges once and they were off .
the tractor turned gracefully and the forty two foot trailer followed the graceful arc of the turn .
the twin chromed stacks roared with a deep base thunder , as the truck picked up speed with every shift of the transmission .
austin glanced over at jacob .
he was smiling as always since getting the new tractor trailer rig .
before , he had hardly ever smiled .
he had been a sad , worried man .
now , his dream had come true .
tommy had gained a lifelong loyal friend .
a brother in every sense of the word .
austin believed jacob would die for tommy lesade .
he knew he would .
anyone as kind and loyal as tommy deserved friends willing to die for him .
the next day at noon austin couldnt believe his ears .
the breeder , mister lane , claimed the money had not arrived in his account therefore , they couldnt have the stallion .
austin pulled his cell phone from his pocket and dialed tommys number .
it was answered on the third ring by lisa .
lisa , we have a problem , here , austin said angrily .
mister lane claims the money for the stallion isnt here .
so we cant get the stallion !
austin , i assure you , the money was sent to his account at nine oclock this morning .
its arrival into his account was confirmed .
hes lying .
hold on a minute , austin said , staring at lane angrily .
the full sum was wired this morning and its arrival was confirmed by your bank .
it should be there .
should be and is are two different things , mister .
and youre not getting my stallion until im paid .
thats final !
lisa , put tommy on .
whats up austin ?
tommy asked when he was on the phone .
hold on a minute , austin , he added , turning to his laptop and began to punch in his code .
when everything was ready , he spoke into the phone as he entered the account number given to him by austin the night before .
at nine oclock this morning , lanes account held a balance of just under seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars .
at six minutes after nine oclock this morning , the account received a deposit of two hundred and thirty thousand dollars .
ask him if he agrees about his balance before the deposit .
he agrees .
he seems a little confused , but he agrees , austin replied , wondering what tommy was up to .
ask him if he wants to pay me that amount not to buy his stallion , tommy said smiling .
better yet , put him on the phone .
hello ?
lane said , taking the phone from austin .
i dont know what youre trying to pull mister .
but , if you would like to pay me seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars not to buy your stallion , just say the word .
i can arrange it , right now , tommy told lane seriously .
pay you my life savings not to buy pretty dancer ?
are you crazy ?
you must think so or you wouldnt be trying to pull a fast one on me .
why dont you call your account again and recheck your balance .
then call me back if you want to deal .
ill be waiting .
with that tommy broke the connection , then sat back and smiled .
five minutes later tommys phone rang .
he answered it .
what have you done , you bastard ?
lane cried .
my accounts empty !
wiped out !
so , do you want to be honest with me , mister lane ?
tommy asked sincerely .
im a patient man , but you sir , are pushing my limit .
i want my money back or ill call the law !
lane threatened .
you dont want the law in this i promise you .
i will own you , lock , stock , and barrel if you invite them in .
so , sir , what will it be ?
you put my money back , plus the two hundred and fifty thousand for the stallion and well forget this ever happened , lane offered .
sir , you tried to screw me and my friends .
that privilege comes at a price .
so , i will return your original balance , plus ten thousand for the stallion .
or , i will completely wipe you out of business and home .
do you understand ?
yes , you bastard !
lane said angrily , his face a mask of fury .
that lowered the price of the stallion by two thousand dollars .
anything else you wish to say before we end these negotiations , mister lane ?
no , sir , lane answered meekly .
make mister lake a legal bill of sale for eight thousand dollars for the stallion and transfer the papers over to him and see that hes loaded properly in the trailer .
if you make one careless error , all bets are off and you , sir , are homeless .
understand ?
yes sir , there wont be a problem , sir .
i promise , lane promised .
when everything is done , call me back and i will return your money .
and , let this be a lesson to you .
you never know who youre dealing with , or who they know , tommy disconnected and waited for austin to call back .
the call came an hour later and austin reported that everything was settled and they were on their way home .
tommy called up lanes account at the bank and while he was on the phone , restored his money , plus the eight thousand dollars for the stallion .
he didnt like doing the man the way he had .
but , he believed in honesty all the way around .
he would much rather be the screwer than the screwee !
plus , he hoped the man had learned his lesson from the experience .
tommy , we need to go , lisa said coming into the room .
its time .
tommy got up and they left for the bank .
it was time to sign the papers on the land .
the horses needed a place to call home .
as did they .
from the bank , they were going to the custom home designer in tulsa .
they had a preliminary sketch of the ranch they intended to build and the home designer was waiting to enter a bid on their design .
as tommy and lisa were backing out of their driveway , kalief goldman was seeking clearance from the air traffic controller to land his lear jet at tulsa international airport .
permission was granted and he brought the smooth business jet in and sat it down like a seasoned pro , then taxied to the terminal and parked on the apron near the front door of a flight service .
after making arrangements for the servicing of the jet , he was given a lift to a car rental place where he rented a chevrolet caprice and a road map of oklahoma .
he had an appointment in tahlequah and he had no intention of being late .
he had a man to kill and funds to recover .
he had , after all , been paid for his services by niles cramer .
wherever he was at the present time .
he hadnt been in contact for over a month , now .
kalief was beginning to worry that something serious had happened .
it was unlike niles to not inquire about his slave children , or the possible purchase of more .
kalief sped down the turnpike toward ft. smith .
he tapped his finger on the steering wheel to the sound of the music on the radio .
he kept the speedometer needle exactly on 65 miles per hour and enjoyed the scenery around him .
it was unlike anything he had ever seen before .
beautiful !
was the only word he could think of to describe it .
and even that was not adequate .
he turned off the turnpike at the tahlequah exit and cruised easily south on highway 82 .
he still tapped his finger on the steering wheel as he cruised along planning how he was going to kill tommy lesade and anyone else who got in the way .
he was so engrossed in his planning that he failed to see the speeding car approaching the ear bob resort turn off until it was far too late .
it seemed his world was instantly turned upside down and was spinning out of control until everything went black and silent .
two days later austin and jacob pulled into tahlequah .
they called from the highway to tell tommy , or lisa , to come and lead them to the property so they could unload the horses .
forty five minutes later tommy , lisa , austin , linda and jacob stood watching the eleven horses graze on the knee deep grass .
they were a beautiful sight .
the stallion seemed to know he was the master .
he watched over the mares protectively .
wont be long well have to separate the stallion .
hell go wild and get real dangerous , austin observed , as they watched the animals move one step at a time across the pasture .
theyll start building fences first thing monday morning , tommy replied , hugging lisa .
but , sunday theres going to be a wedding .
and youre all invited !
whos getting married ?
jacob asked innocently .
tommy and lisa , who else ?
linda asked , as she hugged austin and kissed him on the cheek affectionately .
maybe i ought to get married , jacob observed thoughtfully .
got anyone in mind ?
tommy asked .
not yet .
but , i just got a new peterbilt , so getting a wife shouldnt be that hard .
they all laughed hysterically at jacobs phrasing and how provocative it sounded .
he failed to understand what was so funny and just kept looking more and more bewildered , asking what was so funny .
his innocence served only to make them laugh all the harder .
the stallion watched them enviously for a minute , and then began to walk toward them , head high , ears erect and forward .
he stepped without hesitation up to tommy and began to nuzzle him gently .
he placed his forehead against tommys chest and began to move it up and down gently , as if scratching his head .
tommy scratched behind his ears with his fingers and then moved down behind his jaw bone and under his chin and throat , then began to rub his neck vigorously .
tommy was amazed at the strength of the magnificent animal .
with that strength , tommy knew , came the massive potential for uncontrollable danger .
but at the same time , as now , the need for great gentleness and affection .
tommy continued to scratch , rub , and pat the stallion until he had received the gentleness and affection he needed .
then , the horse turned and rejoined the mares .
he stopped and looked back , seemingly , at tommy and nickered softly , as if saying thanks , goodbye for now , see ya later all at once .
he then turned and lowered his head and began to graze along with the mares .
maybe he dont want to be separated from the mares , jacob observed sagely .
id be willing to bet thats true .
but , it has to be done , austin said .
otherwise hell bully the mares into submission and theyll be hard to catch and control .
it wouldnt take long for them to turn wild .
so , his paddock should be one of the first things built .
itll have to be high and strong , too .
they all stood in silence , lost in their own thoughts as they watched the horses move slowly away into the distance .
tommy , you had better sit down somewhere , before you fall down , linda said , looking closely at tommys slumping figure , resting heavily on his cane .
he was still very weak from the accident and five weeks of lying in the hospital .
youre right , he agreed .
ive seen what i came to see .
im ready to go home if you all are .
austin , you did good .
the horses are exactly what i had envisioned , he added , looking at austin and offering his hand .
well , i did purty durn good , too , didnt i ?
jacob asked , a little put out that no one had acknowledged his contribution to their enterprise .
jacob , you did fine , lisa said , hugging him affectionately .
jacob turned red as a beet and began to stammer and shuffle his feet .
he seemed to find the ground in front of him and his feet very interesting but not exactly the way he wanted it , so rearranged it to his liking with the toe of his boot .
lisa decided that jacob was not used to women showing him affection so openly , poor man , she thought .
i got me a new pererbilt , jacob said softly to himself , then turned to admire the sparkling new truck and trailer .
he smiled affectionately at tammy ii .
he was in love again , twice .
tammy ii and lisa , soon to be lesade , were the only two women in the world he would sacrifice himself for without flinching or blinking .
the sunday wedding went without a hitch .
it was a small private affair held at tommys house .
judge ryan performed the ceremony .
when it was over and everyone had kissed the bride , except jacob , who was far too shy for that , and shook tommys hand in congratulations , tommy looked jacob in the eyes as they shook hands and asked seriously , jacob is my wife not good enough for you to kiss ?
oh , shes perfect as rain , tommy i just dont think its proper to be kissing on another mans wife .
thats all , jacob replied getting nervous .
lisa will be heartbroken if you dont .
you dont want that , do you ?
no , never !
but if you say its alright , i will , jacob replied , looking shyly at the floor and his feet .
he stammered and stuttered , shifting from one foot to the other .
its okay , jacob .
this once .
because its her wedding day .
now , make her happy .
well , okay .
if you say so .
lisa , jacob didnt feel it proper to kiss the bride .
he has since had a change of heart , he smiled , leading jacob to lisa .
i just love respectful men !
come here , jacob .
and lets make it one to remember !
she laughed , spreading her arms wide to receive jacob .
jacob stepped up and shyly pecked lisa on the cheek , quickly , then stepped just as quickly back , turning red to his ears and looking at the floor .
that wasnt a proper kiss , jacob !
come here , she said , grabbing him by his shirt front and string tie and pulling him back into her arms , roughly .
when she turned him loose , he knew he had been kissed proper .
his face was red , his eyes were glassy and he was frozen , staring blankly into space .
that was a proper kiss !
lisa laughed , as she stepped forward and hugged jacob tightly with affection .
then stepped back beside tommy and placed her arm around his waist .
tommy , when you get a moment , i need to talk to you in private , judge ryan said quietly .
sure judge , lets step into the den , tommy replied , leading ryan into the computer room den .
whats wrong , judge ?
and how can i help ?
he added , indicating ryan should have a seat .
i received an email this morning that has me a little concerned , is all .
i thought you should know about it .
what did it say ?
something about , if we didnt make the death of cramer right we could count on an in depth investigation by the central intelligent agency , the fbi and the national security agency and several more of the alphabet agencies that our government loves to toss around to strike fear into the hearts and minds of its sheepified citizenry .
who sent it ?
i dont know for sure .
someone in quantico , virginia .
cia i guess .
hang on , ill run a check .
tommy turned to the computer and his fingers flew across the keyboard .
this shouldnt be too difficult , he said , typing more information into the program .
now , well just let it cook for a minute .
then , well see who flung chuck !
the great seal of the central intelligence agency appeared on the screen .
tommy placed the flashing curser on the first small i in intelligence and clicked the mouse .
he typed in enter says i .
a heavy steel door appeared on the screen .
it was banded with heavy steel chains and bands with multiple locks , a bank vault wheel that began to turn quickly back and forth .
as it did the locks began to drop to the floor until the heavy vault door began to swing slowly open .
when it was fully open , a spy vs. spy cartoon character stepped back away from the door , brushed his hands off and using an index finger began to motion them inside by curling and uncurling the finger from his closed fist .
he then turned and began to walk into the vault .
he stopped under an overhead menu , like at a fast food restaurant , and arms crossed , his chin cradled between his thumb and forefinger , he studied the menu carefully .
hundreds of items were offered on the menu .
tommy chose emails and clicked the mouse .
his spy instantly reached up and took down the email card .
he walked to a wall and inserted it into a slot .
on the wall appeared a request form .
tommy filled in all the spaces he could .
in the slot receiver he typed in ryans name and email address .
instantly terri ashtons picture appeared on the screen with all her vital information .
mean anything to you ?
tommy asked ryan .
no , he replied , staring blankly at the picture .
pretty girl , though .
tommy clicked the mouse and the email she had sent appeared on the screen .
tommy read it quickly .
it was basically what ryan had said it was .
maybe a relative , or lover , of cramers , ryan suggested .
maybe , tommy said thoughtfully .
so , what do we do ?
she cant expose us .
just cause trouble and inconvenience is all .
i dont need it .
how about you ?
no , im happy living a low profile life .
i dont need any excitement , ryan replied seriously .
well , lets invite her down and see what she wants , tommy suggested .
sounds good , ryan smiled .
miss ashton , you , my dear , are in for one very fast ride , tommy laughed , as he typed in a cordial invitation to tahlequah for the chance to win millions of dollars in a contest for people of cherokee descent .
after intensive research it had been discovered that she was the great , great , great , grand daughter of chief john ross and was therefore eligible to participate in the exclusive contest .
travel arrangements and airline tickets were being forwarded in her name and would be delivered to the jackson travel agency in quantico , virginia .
she would be picked up by limousine and driven to the airport .
in tulsa , she would be met and driven by limousine to tahlequah for the contest .
enclosed , also , would be a cashiers cheque in the amount of five thousand dollars for last minute expenses she may have before departure in case she had to secure her home and vehicle and maybe house a pet for a few weeks .
congratulations and best wishes were added in closing .
that should do it , tommy smiled .
i want to participate .
im part cherokee , too !
tommy laughed , and then began exiting the program .
he had his little spy push the door closed and secure all the chains , bands and locks .
when he finished , he turned to tommy and waved bye bye while he walked over , grabbed the great seal of the cia and pulled it across the screen until the cursor was flashing on the first small i of intelligence .
when it was tommy clicked the mouse and was out of the program and the screen was blank .
what all can you do with that program ?
ryan wondered aloud .
anything i want to .
anywhere in the world , he replied , turning to smile at ryan .
anything ?
anything !
ryan smiled slyly and thought secret thoughts about the future .
he had a little scheme in mind .
tommy joined him in silence for a minute thinking his own thoughts .
wed better get back , judge .
theyre waiting .
after all it is my wedding day , tommy laughed , then stood and left the room .
ryan sat for a minute lost in thought .
then , as if reaching a decision he rose and followed tommy .
as ryan entered the living room , less than twenty miles away , kalief goldman was being broadsided by a drunken cherokee .
the indian was killed instantly and kaliefs chances were only marginally better .
chapter 12 tommy sat on his front porch , in the swing , enjoying the warmth of the mid summer day and awaited the arrival of miss terri ashton .
he looked down the empty street and was surprised to see jacob stomping angrily toward the house .
it was obvious he was madder than a wet hen .
his head was down , fists clenched at his side and he didnt just step he stomped his foot down with every step .
he seemed to be mumbling to himself as if in argument .
once in a while he shook his head from side to side angrily and kicked out furiously with one foot or the other .
when this happened his anger was renewed in a violent storm that fought its way to the surface and exploded in rage .
tommy watched him closely as he stomped across the yard and up onto the porch .
he never once looked up , as he stomped up the steps and onto the porch , heading for the door .
howdy , jacob , tommy said calmly .
tommy that goddamn high and mighty , fat son of a bitch of a sheriff done went and put tammy two in jail !
said i musta stoleder !
wadnt no way i could afford sech a truck rig !
that the only reason ?
thats what he said !
said i musta stoleder !
jacob raged indignantly .
did you explain how you got tammy two ?
i tried .
he wouldnt listen !
not to a word i said .
said i was lucky he wasnt taking me to jail , too !
said if he found out tammy two was stoled , hed come for me next !
well , lets go have a talk with sheriff anderson , tommy said , getting up from the swing and walking down the steps to his new dodge ram turbo diesel , three quarter ton pickup .
he listened to jacob rage and vent his frustration all the way to the sheriffs office .
he didnt say anything , just listened .
in the sheriffs office tommy asked to talk to the sheriff as soon as he was free .
have a seat , sir .
it will be a minute , the deputy said .
his name tag read d. fine .
are you related to the fines over by peggs ?
yes , sir .
cousin .
i went to school with them a few years back .
good people , all .
tommy sat down to wait .
thank you , sir .
im proud of them .
d. fine said , and then went back to what he had been doing before tommy and jacob had entered the office .
five minutes later a man stomped out of the sheriffs office much like jacob had arrived home .
he was red faced and mumbling about a high and mighty fat bastard that didnt know jack shit about the law or justice .
you can go in now , mister lesade .
good luck , sir .
youll need it .
oh , i dont think so .
the sheriffs a reasonable man .
tommy stood and walked to the open door .
and just what the hells your problem , mister ?
the sheriff asked hatefully , as if his patience had been tried to the end .
tommy saw a fat , red faced , bald man in his early forties .
he appeared to be around six feet four , or so .
it was hard to tell for sure from his seated position behind his cluttered desk .
he was so far out of shape he resembled a blue ribbon hog tommy had seen at the county fair once when he was a kid .
he now knew what had happened to that hog .
he had become sheriff of cherokee county , oklahoma .
you for starters .
then , well go from there .
me ?
how the hell am i your problem ?
you seized and impounded my friends peterbilt tractor this morning on the assumption that it may have been stolen .
now , ive come to get it back .
so , sign a release and give me the keys and well be out of your hair , tommy said seriously , standing in front of the sheriffs desk and looking down into his squinched pig eyes .
get the hell outa my office , mister !
who the hell you think you are comin in here makin demands and issuing orders .
im the law in this town , by gawd !
i make the rules and apply them as i see fit !
anderson screamed as he slowly stood , his voice getting louder the higher he rose .
youre fired , sheriff .
get out of this office !
now !
tommy said calmly , reaching over and ripping the badge from andersons shirt front so fast the sheriff didnt have time to react .
you cant fire me !
who the hell are you ?
ill lock your hairy ass up , mister !
anderson yelled , spraying saliva across his desk .
mister , im tired of you yelling at me , so if you dont get a civil tone in your voice , im going to clean this office with your fat , lazy ass and put you in jail !
tommy said calmly , but seriously , as he stepped around the side of the desk to confront the ex sheriff .
you cant threaten and scare me you son of a ... anderson started to say , but never got to finish .
tommy stepped forward like an attacking police dog .
the room sounded like a short 4th of july celebration as tommy landed no less than ten wicked blows to the fat mans face and body .
when he finished and anderson was like a drunken sailor in his hands he let the fat slob fall heavily to the floor , then calmly reached over and called judge ryan .
judge , i just fired your sheriff and im appointing another .
tommy said .
okay , tommy .
ill notify the mayor .
thanks tommy , the county will appreciate it .
deputy fine ?
tommy yelled through the door .
yes , sir , mister lesade ?
youre the new acting sheriff , tommy said , handing him the sheriffs badge .
lock this mess up until judge ryan says different .
and , i need a release and the keys to jacobs peterbilt .
yes , sir mister lesade .
d. fine replied .
one other thing .
how do you know who i am ?
my dad pointed you out one day , in town .
he said you were a real hero .
he told me everything about you , sir .
i hope you dont mind us talking about you .
whos your dad ?
charlie , sir .
tell charlie i said hi .
hes a good man .
be proud of him .
he served his country well .
a braver man ive never met , tommy said slowly , thoughtfully , remembering charlie fine and the bravery he showed in several battles that earned him the bronze star with oak leaf cluster and a purple heart .
yes , sir , acting sheriff fine said .
sir , what should i book this mess on ?
how about public indecency for starters ?
sounds good to me .
ill get this garbage hauled out then ill get that release for you and the keys to the truck .
youll need help with this load , tommy said , looking down at the mountain of blubber at his feet .
jacob , give us a hand to haul this hog out a here .
yes sir , capn , jacob said , stepping over and grabbing a leg as tommy unbuckled the gun belt and let the ends fall to the floor on either side .
it was all they could do to drag the ex sheriffs dead weight out of the office and to a cell in the back .
but , ten minutes later when the cell door slammed closed the ex sheriff lay on the concrete floor , still unconscious .
tommy dropped jacob off at tammy ii , and then drove on home .
he wasnt surprised to see the sparkling new bmw stretch limousine parked along the street in front of his house .
special agent sandy borne stood beautifully in her new custom fitted chauffeur outfit , her black cap tilted sexily down over her eyes .
she was beautiful he had to give her that , tails and all .
as he got out of his truck in the driveway and turned to face the street , agent borne opened the back door of the limo .
special agent melissa jackson , acting as special escort to miss ashton , stepped out .
she was quickly followed by terri ashton , cia .
they came quickly up the sidewalk to tommy .
they held hands like old friends , which they were .
tommy waved sandy to them when the other two ladies stopped in front of him .
she started up the sidewalk behind them .
hi tommy , long time no see , melissa smiled , sexily .
hello , melissa , tommy replied , taking her silky smooth hand in both of his , as if it were a cherished item .
this beautiful young lady must be miss ashton .
correct ?
yes , hello , terri smiled nervously , offering her hand to tommy .
tommy held her hand as gently as he had held melissas .
if you beautiful young ladies will follow me , ill show you into the house .
im sorry its so humble .
our new house wont be finished for a few more months , yet .
this house is beautiful .
i cant wait to see the new one , melissa said , as they entered the front door .
sandy came in last and closed the door gently behind them .
you ladies find a seat anywhere .
ill get lisa and the judge and we will explain the contest rules to miss ashton .
ill be right back , he said smiling , then turned and left the room .
lisa and ryan sat at the table looking at a maternity magazine .
she wasnt showing yet , but it wouldnt be long now according to her calculations .
hi , angel , tommy said , leaning over and kissing her around her earlobe , which he knew she loved .
hey , quit !
im already pregnant !
what more do you want , beast !
she joked offering her lips to him .
just you , angel forever !
tommy said seductively .
we have company .
come and say hi to miss ashton .
so , the fly got into your ointment , huh ?
lisa smiled knowingly .
yes , and a pretty fly she is , too , ryan teased , knowing lisa was very jealous of tommy and other women she didnt know very well .
which was most other women .
yeah , yeah , come into my parlor said the spider to the fly , lisa taunted .
i know your kind , mister !
and i love em !
she laughed , standing and easing into tommys arms .
he smiled over her shoulder at ryan .
lisa pulled his head down and kissed him passionately .
come on , youre already pregnant !
what more do you want from me , woman ?
he taunted , turning and leading her and ryan toward the living room .
come on and meet the fly .
the pretty fly , she corrected .
wheres austin and linda ?
he asked .
at the ranch site , where else ?
hes still a colonel at heart and likes supervising and giving orders .
as if the builders dont know their own business , she laughed as they entered the living room .
miss ashton , this is my wife , lisa .
she used to be with the u.s. marshalls office .
this is district court judge andrew ryan , tommy continued when the two women finished shaking hands .
the contest we are going to play is much like the old game truth or consequences .
remember it ?
tommy asked , then waited for her to nod .
we each are going to ask you a series of questions .
if you do not tell us the absolute truth , well , then you must face the consequences .
understood ?
yes , i think so , she answered , unsure she understood how they would know whether she was telling the truth or not .
okay , first question , tommy said , taking a seat across from her and placing a tape recorder on the table in front of her and turned it on .
why the tape recorder ?
she asked uncertainly .
you cant expect us to remember your answers word for word , can you ?
he smiled .
no , i guess not , she reluctantly agreed , still unsure of the contest .
okay , first question , tommy repeated , smiling .
what can you tell us about niles cramer and your relationship to him ?
terri was momentarily stunned into silence by the question .
slowly a deer in the headlights look came over her as she realized she had been duped .
what is this ?
she asked incredulously , looking around the room .
terri , melissa said calmly .
you are being investigated for corruption , threatening a state judge , blackmail and fraud .
do you want your miranda rights read to you ?
no , i know them , she replied .
i refuse to answer any question that may incriminate me , she said , staring angrily at tommy .
okay , but take a look around you .
this may be your last look at freedom for the next twenty years .
are you sure this is what you want ?
melissa continued seriously .
what choice do i have ?
terri asked , beginning to cry as she thought about jail .
we have several consolation prizes .
if youre interested , that is , tommy continued .
before tommy could continue jacob came bursting through the front door screaming excitedly at the top of his voice .
tommy !
aint she a beaut ?
i told you you could trust me to pick a good one !
shes the most beautiful thing ive ever seen !
except tammy two !
he continued coming through the living room door .
he stopped in his tracks and instantly got a deer in the headlights look of his own , when he saw the people , mostly strangers , setting around the room .
oh , sorry tommy .
didnt know you had company , he said shyly , looking at the floor .
come in jacob .
take a seat , tommy said , seeing a strange look come across terris face .
it was like idol worship , love at first sight and a mothers love for her child all at once .
as i was saying terri , we have several consolation prizes , if youre interested .
if not , you go to jail for a long , long time !
you have no proof that ive done anything wrong , terri sobbed quietly .
darling , we have all the evidence and proof we need to convict you of threatening judge ryan and attempting to blackmail him over the death of niles cramer .
otherwise you wouldnt be here , tommy said quietly , but seriously .
melissa , show her the evidence , please .
id hate to see such a beautiful woman go to jail for twenty years .
melissa lifted the file from the floor and began to lay out the evidence for terri to see .
she began to cry harder as each page was laid before her .
she looked helplessly at jacob and saw tears glistening in his eyes as well .
she fell deeper in love than she had ever been before that a man she didnt know could feel her pain and fear as she did was unbelievable .
she had given up on ever finding true love , until now .
what must i do ?
terri sobbed .
i dont want to go to jail .
first of all , stop crying , tommy said , then waited for her to regain her composure .
now , heres what youll do .
you will resign from the agency .
you will cite your reasons as follows .
one , you have met the most wonderful , innocent man in your life and you are going to marry him .
two , you have become wealthy and plan to open your own trucking company , with your new husband .
and three , you feel your chances of advancement with the agency are extremely limited and therefore you feel it is in the best interests of both , the agency , and yourself , that you resign .
do you agree to these terms , terri ?
whom will i marry ?
where did i get the money ?
how much money will i get ?
and what position will i hold in this trucking company ?
you will marry jacob ladder , tommy said , indicating jacob .
i got a brand new peterbilt !
jacob said proudly , but innocently .
terri laughed through her tears , catching the unintended implications of jacobs wording .
she thought she may fall in love with this handsome , innocent bumpkin .
she covered her mouth with her hand and turned red .
she could not remove the humor in her eyes , though .
she looked back at tommy .
go on , she smiled .
i will buy the company ten brand new peterbilt tractors and matching trailers , pay all the road expenses and taxes for the first five years , or until the company starts turning a decent profit .
you will be the president and ceo of brothers trucking company .
your base of operations will be our ranch over at lake tenkiller .
jacob will be exclusive manager .
he knows the business inside and out .
his word is law , next to mine , lisas and colonel lakes .
we can all overrule him .
i will open a bank account at the local bank in the name of the company .
i will hire an accounting firm to keep the books and i will build for you a comfortable home on our ranch .
in addition to the trucking company and marrying jacob , you will learn to love him and care for him .
you will give him children .
you will be loyal to him .
any attempt to deceive us or steal from us or run from us and this evidence will be turned over to sandy and melissa for your prosecution .
you better pray every minute of your waking life that they find you before we do .
there is no mercy and no second chance .
do you understand and agree to these terms ?
he finished .
terri sat and thought in silence for several seconds .
she glanced at jacob , then at melissa and sandy .
then , lisa .
and lastly back at tommy .
where do i sign ?
she asked , nodding her head in affirmation , as she made her irreversible decision .
there is nothing to sign .
we are all witnesses to your acceptance of our offer .
its in your hands alone to live up to your end of the bargain , tommy said seriously .
so , it seems you have earned the grand prize after all terri .
welcome to our family .
terri ashton began to cry .
they all gathered around her to lend comfort and support .
and to show that all was forgiven .
today was the first day of the rest of her new life .
jacob , come meet your future wife , lisa said , taking him by the arm and leading him over to terri .
hi , jacob , terri smiled shyly , offering him her small , narrow , long , slim fingered hand .
i got a new peterbilt !
wan na go for a ride !
jacob asked innocently , staring straight into terris sparkling eyes .
yep , she thought , im gon na love loving this innocent man !
she said , sure , jacob .
if its alright with everyone .
youre free to come and go as you please .
youre part of our family .
you know your responsibilities .
you know the consequences for betrayal , lisa said softly , joining terris and jacobs hands together .
its in your hands now .
do what you believe to be right and live , or die with the consequences .
she smiled , then turned to sandy and melissa .
so girls , have you thought about our offer ?
yes .
they said together .
and we accept , melissa finished and sandy nodded her head in agreement .
we decided we were headed pretty much nowhere with the feds .
and we both decided we really want to practice law .
thats what we went to school for , sandy said , smiling at melissa and lisa with love in her eyes .
its great to be loved , needed and accepted , for who and what i am , she thought , as her eyes began to tear up .
im so happy , i could cry !
she said , as melissa and lisa hugged her to them tightly .
when lisa found tommy again he was on the phone finishing up a conversation with judge ryan .
she sat down on the sofa beside him and waited for him to finish up .
yes , she accepted our offer , tommy said into the phone .
i agree .
shes a smart girl , he added .
okay judge , tell the governor ill see him friday .
bye .
take care .
i will , bye .
he finished placing the receiver into the cradle and turning to lisa .
he kissed her soundly .
thats from the judge .
this ones from me , he smiled , wrapping her into his arms and kissing her proper .
whew !
she said when they came up for air .
do it again , she begged .
he obliged her willingly and with great pleasure .
want to ride out to the ranch and see how it progressed in the past week ?
he asked , when they came up for air once again .
id rather stay here and do something else with you , she said lustfully , with her bedroom eyes pleading .
youre already pregnant ... he started before she interrupted .
this will be for pure pleasure , she promised , squeezing him .
please .
.
.
pretty please .
.
.
with sugar on top ?
she begged , panting like a happy dog .
how can i deny a damsel in distress ?
my hero !
she said fawningly , batting her eyes rapidly and seductively as she took his hand and dragged him from the sofa .
he followed more than willingly as she led him to the bedroom and closed the door behind them with a bang .
in the intensive care unit , linda read the gauges of all the machines that were hooked up to kalief .
she wrote their readings down on the clipboard she held .
when she finished she hung it back on the foot of the bed and went out the door .
at the nurses station , her assistant , deborah kerns looked up from the magazine she was reading .
any change in the new patient , mister spelling ?
she asked .
none , whatsoever , linda replied .
personally , i dont hold out much hope for him .
his spine is shattered in three places and he was nearly cut in two .
he lost massive amounts of blood before he arrived here , so theres a good chance of brain damage .
if he does awaken , he may not know who he is .
or where he is , for that matter .
i wonder what he was doing way down here .
deborah mused .
long ways from washington , d.c. linda looked up suddenly at the mention of washington , d.c. she remembered the man who had tried to kill tommy and had kidnapped lisa was from washington , d.c. are you sure hes from there ?
thats what doyle henry said .
he ran the plates on the car and they came back clean .
from a rental agency in d.c. rented last wednesday to mister aaron spelling .
isnt he a movie director , or something ?
beats me , linda replied , dialing austins cell phone number .
she had to report the presence of this man from d.c. two hours after entering the bedroom , tommy and lisa emerged with smiles of pure heavenly bliss on their faces .
lisa literally glowed with a bright , inner light that radiated so brightly she appeared to be glowing from within like one would expect an angel to glow with the light of holiness .
tommy also glowed .
but perhaps , not with such holiness as an angel .
his was more the aura of a great and magnificent beast .
sandy and melissa sat on one sofa , glowing with love and happiness .
jacob and terri sat on the other as if they had been together for years , even though it had only been a few hours .
jacob starred into the middle distance as if he had seen the seven wonders of the world in less than thirty seconds and had studied them thoroughly , trying to make up his mind which was the most magnificent .
his eyes slowly led his head around until he was staring in awe at terri .
he seemed to melt with love and wonder as he stared at her , mouth agape .
she smiled with what may be the seed of love and promise of a bright future together .
girls , jacob .
were going to take a ride out to the ranch to see how things are going .
youre welcome to come along if you like and see what were doing , tommy said , looking from one couple to the other .
sure , i love ranches and horses and such , melissa said as she stood up and pulled sandy up with her .
sandy , come on , sweetie .
lets see if we can find something of mine you can wear .
i know that uniform has got to be .
.
.
binding , lisa laughed , taking her hand and leading her toward the bedroom she had just departed .
five minutes later they emerged .
sandy was wearing a pair of lisas levis jeans , that were maybe a size too small and a western style blouse that fit her as if tailor made for her .
the effect was breathtaking .
shes beautiful , tommy thought .
like a million dollar model !
ready ?
tommy asked , a glow of appreciation for beauty in his manner .
i am quickly becoming surrounded by beautiful women !
he thought .
but , hell , arent they all beautiful in their own way ?
he concluded .
if you are , lisa said .
the other girls nodded .
jacob stared as if shell shocked .
tommy noticed that jacob was still lost in terris eyes as if searching for something as fleeting as wonder , perhaps .
or maybe it was just blind , true love and adoration .
whatever she had done to him during their truck ride had made a devoted disciple for life out of him .
he was nearly worshiping at her feet .
lets take the limo , tommy suggested .
so we can all go together and be comfortable .
alright , they all agreed .
except jacob .
he was nearly comatose with awe .
tommy held the door for them , and then followed them across the street to the limo .
he held the back door for them as they all climbed in .
then , held the front door for lisa and followed her in as she slid over on the seat .
after buckling his seat belt and insuring all his passengers were also strapped in , he started the engine and drove off slowly stately as becomes a stretch limousine .
at the ranch site they all stood in amazement at the progress that had been made .
the fences were up , as was the barn and stables .
the house was framed and roofed .
the walls were being boarded up in preparation for the native rock and log facing .
lisa led the girls down to the house to show them the layout this gave tommy a chance to talk to jacob alone .
he wasnt sure how to approach him , but felt jacobs well being was his responsibility .
so , instead of beating around the bush , he just asked him point blank .
jacob , are you alright ?
youve been acting strange .
whats wrong ?
oh , tommy , jacob said in wondrous amazement .
the thangs at girl done to me in that peterbilt sleeper box !
i had no idea they could do such wondrous thangs like at to their male counterparts !
i thank i went to heaven , three or four times !
and am still alive to tell about it !
he went on in awe .
well , what you and terri did is private .
so keep it to yourself out of respect for terri .
but , tommy , at girl tied me up and spanked my bare bottom while she did thangs to me with her mouth that i never imagined was true !
and i liked it just fine !
i asked her to do it to me three times before i realized i wadnt dreamin , he went on , a pleasant smile on his face from the memory of his experience .
sounds like you two are going to be just fine , then , tommy laughed , patting jacob on the back .
oh , i dont thank fines the word for it , but i dont know what it is .
but , its good anyway !
im glad youre happy , jacob .
tommy smiled .
im mostly always happy .
but , never as happy as ive been since i met you and lisa .
i love you guys more than i love me , or terri , or tammi two !
he declared as honestly as he knew how .
we love you , too , jacob .
dont you ever forget that .
we are brothers , forever !
i love you , capn !
jacob said simply and sincerely .
i love you too , jacob .
lets go find the colonel and jazz him up a little .
whataya say ?
you with me ?
all the way !
capn !
jacob laughed , following tommy .
he stayed respectfully , one step behind and to the right of his superior officer .
tommy decided he would have to remedy that .
he wanted his friends beside him , not behind him .
there was a difference .
they found austin at the stallions paddock .
they had given him two full acres to himself .
there were also several other two acre paddocks for future pure breed stallions .
colonel lake , hows it going around here ?
tommy asked , as he approached the retired colonel from the side .
that was one rule a soldier never broke .
one never walked up directly behind a combat veteran without announcing ones presence well in advance , when possible , thus giving the man time to turn around and recognize the approaching person was not a threat .
the alternative was to approach from the side .
movement was more readily perceived in ones peripheral zone of vision .
this gave early warning without speaking which was often necessary in combat conditions , and preferable to combat veterans .
something just isnt right about that stallion , lake said , never taking his eyes off the stallion a short distance away .
whats wrong with him ?
tommy asked , bewildered .
he had been told by the colonel that the stallion was perfect in every way .
too damn smart and cunning , austin replied .
he butters you up with gentleness , like a puppy .
i just dont trust him , thats all .
hes up to something .
so , dont turn your back on him , is all im saying .
hes a stallion , colonel .
he lives for one purpose .
to pass his genes along to the next generation , tommy said .
he will attack and attempt to destroy anything he perceives as a threat to that purpose , he continued calmly , looking through the eight foot high fence .
the fence was built high to prevent any of the stallions from jumping it when one , or more , of the mares came into season .
that way the mare was not unnecessarily bred every year , unless she was physically fit to carry the long heavy burden of the foal to delivery .
if she wasnt , she would not be put in with the stallion .
the life of a brood mare was not an easy life .
pregnancy was very hard on them .
therefore , breeders of purebred horses were very selective about which mare carried a foal to term at any given time .
hes a magnificent stallion !
theres no doubt about that !
lake reaffirmed his opinion .
colonel we need to select a site to build a large truck barn that will hold as many as fifteen to twenty eighteen wheelers , maybe even more in the future .
got any ideas ?
tommy asked , changing the subject .
so now youre going into the trucking business ?
thats risky at todays fuel prices .
have you checked lately ?
austin said , turning to look at tommy and jacob .
howdy , jacob , i didnt realize you were around .
im mostly pretty quiet , colonel , sir !
lake nodded , and then turned back to tommy .
better do your research first .
well manage , colonel .
it wont be our livelihood , just a sideline .
its your money , son .
im just the foreman of this spread .
maybe up on the hill there .
why there ?
tommy asked .
less noise for the mares .
the trucks wont have to climb the hill if theyre already on top of it .
makes sense to me , tommy agreed , thanking his lucky stars he had the colonel .
jacob , your barn will be on top of the hill , there .
tommy said pointing .
jacob turned to look at the hill where tommy was pointing .
that kind of makes me king of the hill , dont it ?
maybe not king , but at least captain .
so , from now on youre a captain .
like me .
what do you think , colonel ?
is he captain material ?
tommy asked , smiling .
austin stepped away from the fence and walked around jacob , slowly .
he looked him up and down critically , then stopped directly in front of him .
jacob will make a damn fine captain , captain !
he replied , nodding in affirmation , then stepped back and joined tommy at the fence .
jacob smiled and stepped up beside them at the fence .
thank you sir !
jacob said , looking through the rails of the fence at the stallion in the distance .
jacob had been standing back at a distance out of respect for the superior officers .
but now , he was no longer the subordinate of the officers , since he was also now an officer .
colonel , ive got to go to oklahoma city , friday for a meeting with the governor wendell cartwright .
do you remember him ?
like we met yesterday .
he was a fine pilot .
hard to believe he is now governor of a state of the united states .
youll be in charge while im gone , tommy said .
any idea what its about ?
austin asked , looking down the rail at tommy .
judge wouldnt say .
just asked me to be there , at the governors request .
so , ill go and see .
well , good luck , whatever it is .
im going up to the house to have a look around .
you coming ?
no thanks .
ive still got things to do around here .
you and jacob go ahead .
maybe ill see you before you leave .
good enough , tommy replied .
ill see you later , sir , he added , then he and jacob turned and started walking for the home site in the distance .
later , sir !
jacob said , all but saluting .
later , jacob , austin said , then turned back to watch the stallion some more .
back at the house , tommy could see that it was going to be beautiful when it was finished .
the girls were sitting in the middle of a stack of plywood , cross legged and talking like a flock of hens in a hen house .
their happiness and excitement made tommy smile .
when he glanced at jacob , he saw that he was also smiling but his smile was for terri .
terri smiled back , then winked at him causing him to blush cherry red , drop his head in shyness and shuffle his feet around in the saw dust on the floor .
tommy smiled his world nearly complete .
chapter 13 friday morning tommy was up at 4 00 a.m. his morning workout was three hours , as usual .
he often switched times and routines so his body wouldnt become accustomed to the same exercise at the same time , day after day .
he felt that over time , this would be counter productive and his body may not react at its peak in any given situation at unexpected times .
at 7 00 a.m. he stopped .
he was drenched in sweat .
his muscles were shiny and bulging when he stepped into the shower .
the water was luke warm but felt cold .
he gradually increased the hot water until he could not stand it any hotter , and then slowly began to turn the hot water down while turning the cold water up .
soon it was as cold as the city water supply could get it .
when he stepped out of the shower at 7 30 a.m. , his body was covered with goose flesh he shivered slightly .
despite the chill he felt great .
he was ready for whatever the day may bring .
at 8 00 a.m. he was dressed and waiting for judge ryan .
the judge had offered to fly tommy to oklahoma city in his beechcraft .
it would be a flight of a little over an hour , whereas to drive it would take well over three , depending on the traffic in the downtown areas of tulsa and oklahoma city .
perhaps even more if there was a major accident .
so , he had taken the judges offer of the free flight .
at 8 15 tommy finished his breakfast and coffee and had rebrushed his teeth .
he adjusted his tie and carried his sports coat and briefcase as judge ryan pulled up at the curb in his lincoln and honked his arrival .
at 9 30 a.m. tommy and judge ryan were met at the airport by the governors chauffeur driven limousine and driven straight to the state capitol building .
at 9 45 a.m. tommy and ryan were ushered into the governors office and informed that governor cartwright would be right with them would they like coffee while they waited ?
they were on their second cup when wendell entered the office alone .
tommy noticed right off that he hadnt changed much since he had seen him last that would have been during the election campaign three years earlier , tommy thought .
even then , at six feet one , cartwright had been slim and erect with a military bearing that would probably stay with him for the rest of his life .
his hair was still black as coal and shiny as glass , even though there was no evidence of oil or grease to hold it in place .
his face was smooth and unwrinkled , other than three lines radiating from the corners of his sparkling gray eyes .
his teeth gleamed white when he smiled , which was often .
they were straight and even .
and they had been exactly the same in iraq , tommy remembered , so he doubted that they had been capped .
cartwright exuded an air of confidence and competence .
as a governor he was well liked and undoubtedly would be reelected for a second term .
there would be few competitors to challenge his record since he had taken office .
and there was not even a whisper of a scandal to be harped on by a challenger .
wendell cartwright would be extremely hard to beat in the election next year .
tommy noted all of this as the governor entered his office and took the ten steps forward to stand in front of him , hand extended .
tommy lesade !
its a pleasure to see you again .
i think of you often .
in fact , every time i look around me .
if not for you , none of this would have happened .
matter of fact , nothing would have happened other than a military funeral and the presentation of a flag to my mother .
im forever indebted to you .
if ever you need me , im here for you .
you have my word of honor , as an officer and a gentleman on that , wendell said with sincerity in his eyes and absolute gratitude in his voice , as he shook tommys hand firmly and placed his other hand on his shoulder and squeezed affectionately .
trust me , governor it was a pleasure considering how things worked out for you .
id do it again with pleasure , he added sincerely .
please , have a seat .
i have a serious matter i need to discuss with you , cartwright said , after shaking ryans hard and nodded affection for him .
ryan nodded back .
tommy and ryan retook their seats on the sofa they had been sitting on before the governors arrival .
cartwright took a seat in a large overstuffed chair in front of them .
he leaned back and crossed his legs at the knees .
he steepled his hands in front of his mouth and nose .
his two index fingers formed the steeple .
his fingers were long and slim , tommy noted , as he touched them to his lips in thought .
adam jenkins is the founder and ceo of jenkins petroleum in tulsa .
his only son , nineteen year old , adam jr. was doing volunteer work down in southern mexico along the border of guatemala .
he was taken by rebels and is being held for ransom .
adam senior sent an emissary with a million dollars to pay the ransom .
he has since been taken and is being held along with adam junior again for ransom .
this time , one hundred million dollars , u.s .
if the ransom is not paid in three weeks the hostages will be killed , cartwright said , looking directly at tommy .
jenkins senior has agreed to pay the ransom to his sons rescuer .
now , before you answer , i know you dont need the money and i know you are retired , but , the mans only sons life hangs in the balance .
he needs the best .
and you are him .
so , think it over and let me know , soon .
we dont have a lot of time .
ill go and get him on one condition .
actually , a few conditions , tommy replied without hesitation .
im listening , cartwright replied , relief in his voice , knowing any demand would be met no matter what they were .
tommy lesade was trustworthy .
one , i will need the best equipment money can buy .
anything in our national guard armory is yours for the asking .
ill notify the commander , cartwright agreed .
the equipment is nonreturnable .
agreed .
i will need high flying transportation for a halo jump into the area .
agreed , cartwright said , knowing tommy meant high altitude low opening .
i will need a blackhawk for extraction .
possibly under hostile fire .
so , the pilot must have hot lz experience .
agreed .
i will require an exclusive , nonexpiring contract with jenkins petroleum for twenty tractor trailer rigs at minimum prices for brothers trucking company .
the one hundred million dollar ransom will be paid into that company account before i leave , tommy said , leaving unsaid the possibility that he may not return alive .
give me a minute , cartwright said , picking up the phone and dialing a number .
after a brief conversation he hung up the phone and smiled at tommy .
hes having the agreement drawn up as we speak and the money will be wired before close of business today .
i will require the necessary state and federal licenses and permits to maintain an arsenal on my property at lake ten killer .
agreed .
i will require nothing more from you other than a handshake to seal our bargain , tommy smiled , then stood and extended his hand to the governor .
cartwright stood and took tommys hand firmly , sealing the deal .
good luck , tommy .
thanks governor .
its been a pleasure seeing you again .
give my love to the wife and kids .
count on it captain .
you are a legend in our household .
thank you , sir , tommy said , looking the governor in the eyes point blank .
ready judge ?
tommy asked , releasing cartwrights hand and turning to judge ryan .
when you are , tommy .
do you know where the armory is located ?
cartwright asked , escorting them to the door .
not right off hand , tommy replied .
ill get you an escort with instructions , alright ?
that would be great .
thank you , tommy said .
my pleasure , tommy .
take care and come back safe .
ill do my best , sir .
i know you will , tommy .
im glad youre on our side , he laughed , as he opened his office door and showed them into the outer office .
glenda , get captain stamper for me , please .
yes , sir , his secretary replied , picking up the phone instantly .
gentlemen have a seat .
captain stamper will be here shortly , cartwright said , returning to his office .
go right in , captain , glenda said , when an army captain entered to office .
the governors waiting , she continued , indicating the door .
stamper entered without knocking .
he was back in less than five minutes .
he had a look of wonder and amazement on his face as he approached tommy and extended his hand .
it is indeed a pleasure and an honor , captain lesade , stamper said .
tommy stood and took the proffered hand and shook it firmly .
if you will follow me , i will see that you get everything you require , sir , he continued , releasing tommys hand and turned to judge ryan .
judge , a pleasure , always , he said taking the judges hand as an old friend .
the pleasure is always mine , captain , ryan replied , thinking back to iraq and the captains blackhawk spinning to the ground in a cloud of smoke .
how he had managed to crash without injuring himself or his copilot and crew was still a military mystery .
tommy , captain stamper is the best blackhawk pilot ive ever seen .
bar none !
ryan said unequivocally .
now , judge , stamper smiled modestly .
that landing was pure luck !
yeah , like the moon landing was pure luck !
ryan laughed .
well , stamper smiled .
shall we go ?
he added , gesturing toward the door .
yeah , lets get this show on the road !
tommy replied as they left the office .
after making his selections at the armory and receiving everything he thought he might need , captain stamper drove them to the airport and helped them load the equipment into the beechcraft for the flight home .
it was established that captain stamper would be the delivery and pickup pilot to and from guatemala .
he was familiar with the area from past experience during the drug wars of the nineties and was still an exceptional pilot in the oklahoma national guard .
it was a known fact that he could fly anything with wings , with or without an engine .
therefore , he was the natural selection for a clandestine mission .
plus , he was fluent in spanish .
tommy had readily agreed to the choice .
he now sat in the co pilot seat of the beechcraft studying an enlarged map of the southern mexico and northern guatemala region where the rebel camp was located .
it appeared to be mostly dense jungle .
we may need a daisy cutter for the lz , tommy said to no one in particular , mostly to himself .
a daisy cutter is a large bomb dropped from an aircraft that exploded at low proximity to the ground .
it shredded a large area of jungle in all directions , thus , creating a small , but adequate landing zone in the center for a helicopter .
wendell said anything you wanted or needed , ryan said .
but , captain stamper will know what he needs .
he knows the area , he added , glancing over at tommy .
tommy was deep in thought over the map and didnt respond .
he was unaware of anything until the landing gears of the beechcraft dropped from the wings and nose of the craft and then gracefully touched the asphalt and coasted to a stop in front of ryans private hangar .
tommy got out and slid the hangar door back .
ryan taxied the airplane inside and tommy closed the door .
inside ryan turned the aircraft around , and then killed the engine .
he got out and began helping tommy unload and spread the equipment on the floor for its final inspection and packing .
arrangements were being made , as they worked , for a scheduled , routine flight from the states to belize , on the eastern coast of guatemala .
that route would take them over the area of the rebel camp .
tommy would make his jump from twenty five thousand feet .
he would then freefall to within five hundred feet of the ground , then deploy his parachute and float to the ground from about two hundred feet up .
the landing would be the most dangerous part of the jump .
he would be landing in the canopy of the jungle at night unless he could spot an opening on his way down that was large enough for him to enter unless the captain decided on a daisy cutter .
after inspecting all of his equipment twice , tommy unpacked and repacked the parachute he would be using for the jump .
his life would be literally hanging on the proper deployment of the canopy .
it wasnt that he distrusted the rigger and packer who had initially rigged and packed the chute .
it was just that once he left the aircraft , it would be too late to point fingers and collect apologies .
it had to be right the first time so finger pointing and apologies were not needed .
plus , there were no second chances .
satisfied that everything was as it should be , tommy stood and stretched his back .
he had been bent over for more than two hours .
he glanced at his wristwatch .
it was 3 00 p.m. come on judge , time for lunch .
tommy smiled .
more like supper if you ask me .
i could eat a froze dawg !
between us , we just might , tommy laughed , heading for the door , his truck and his home .
to put it mildly , lisa had not in the least been thrilled to hear that tommy was going on some rescue mission in northern guatemala , alone .
she had , in fact , refused to listen to anything about it .
she closed her ears , mouth , eyes and mind to the idea after stating her opinion .
it was simple , tommy , has lost his mind !
he sat in the cargo hold of the c 130 as it flew over the flat rolling terrain of north central texas .
he again saw in his mind lisas flat , amazed look of absolute astonishment and disbelief as what he had told her had registered in her unbelieving mind .
are you out of your mind , tommy lesade !
she had asked incredulously , staring at him as if he were a complete stranger .
to even consider such a thing is madness !
she had added in disbelief .
its a hundred million dollar piece of cake , he had replied with a laugh .
i wont be there two days , at the most , he promised with a smile .
she hadnt spoken to him since .
she had fled to their bedroom to pout .
and worry in private .
now , as he sat in the aircraft going over his plan , he wasnt so sure it was going to be the piece of cake he had made it seem .
things like this seldom were .
but , now wasnt the time to be thinking about the negative aspects of the mission .
he would have time enough for that on the ground after he had landed and located the rebel camp .
he decided , he would take one whole day and night to study the camp and locate the hostages .
then he would plan his attack with as little commotion as necessary to rescue the hostages and clear out the area .
this decided he felt it was time for a nap .
it was going to be a long , stressful next few days .
he would need all the rest he could get for what lay ahead .
he closed his eyes and drifted with the gentle motions of the big , heavy aircraft .
it seemed he had just closed his eyes when he felt a tapping on his boot .
he opened his eyes .
he was wide awake .
captain stamper stood two feet beyond his feet taking no chances with a deadly , combat veteran .
its time , captain lesade .
five minutes , he added , holding the parachute harness up for tommy to see .
tommy immediately stood and stamper helped him into the harness , insuring the straps were snug and the parachute was hanging in the proper position .
when it was , he steadied him and led him toward the center of the aircraft and the side door .
tommy carried his equipment bag then sat it on the floor in front of his feet .
stamper twisted the handle on the door and slid it open and back .
he stepped to one side and invited tommy to stand in the door .
tommy eased the equipment over and stepped into the door with the bag in front of him .
he stood in the door with his knees flexed slightly and his hands on each side of the outer skin of the airplane .
the equipment bag , on a twenty foot tether , would go out first and he would immediately follow it .
stamper stared at his watch silently .
tommy waited , staring into the pitch black turbulence outside .
go !
stamper yelled , placing his hand on the parachute and urging tommy forward and out .
at stampers word , tommy kicked the bag out and hopped from the doorway .
he fell into silence .
the drone of the aircraft faded into the distance .
he clutched the reserve chute to his chest and felt the drag of the equipment bag at his waist .
his legs and feet were held tightly together as he plunged face down at terminal velocity .
tommy spread eagled and began to watch his altimeter .
it was freezing up this high , he thought , as the digits rolled lower and lower , then passed twenty thousand feet .
he became instantly chilled and was still shivering as he fell through fifteen thousand feet .
the equipment bag pulled steadily at his cargo belt as he plummeted toward the ground .
the only sound he heard was the wind rushing past his ears as he fell into total darkness .
he estimated he had about twenty seconds of freefall left before he had to deploy his parachute .
he stared at his altimeter and as it passed five hundred feet he pulled the release and the canopy fed out and fully deployed .
he felt the jerk in his groin , then the release of pull on his waist when the equipment bag hit the ground and then his feet touched the ground and he immediately flexed his knees and flexing his knees , took the pressure of his landing .
he took three steps forward and hit the quick release on his harness , freeing himself of the breeze blown canopy in front of him .
he still held a mental image of the jungle as he had fallen toward it .
he relived the entire jump and analyzed his every move from the exact time the canopy had began to stream out above him and deploy .
he had looked up as it had opened to ensure it was fully deployed .
it had .
the drag began to tilt him head up and feet down from his spread eagle position .
he then looked down at the blackness of the jungle below , searching for any lighter spot where an opening in the canopy may be .
as he fell and drifted he had spotted the large gray area and began to maneuver toward it .
he drifted into it , as planned , and he had landed without injury , by pulling down hard on the risers , then releasing them and allowing the canopy to act as a brake for him .
it had worked out perfectly as planned .
he stood looking around at the surrounding darkness , amazed at the cacophony of sounds in the nighttime jungle .
it was deafening .
he knelt at the equipment bag and withdrew his weapon and a radio .
he loaded the weapon without placing it on safe and then turned the radio on .
mystery man to spy .
confirm ?
over ?
spy confirm .
good luck mystery man .
roger , spy .
out .
spy out .
tommy collapsed the antenna and leaving the radio on , fastened it to his utility belt .
he placed the headset mic near the corner of his mouth , looked at his compass to get his bearings , then shouldered the pack frame , insuring it was comfortable and picked up his weapon .
he pulled his night vision goggles down over his eyes , adjusted the intensity for the terrain , then started slowly through the nighttime jungle .
he had a little over a mile to cover before sunrise .
he had no fear of the noise he made being heard .
over the roar of the millions of animals , insects and birds surrounding him , he could barely hear himself think .
he knew he was in no danger of discovery , yet , he began to dread the daytime noise , when everything was awake and moving .
with his night vision goggles in place and turned on , he saw that the floor of the jungle wasnt as thick with vegetation as he had at first feared .
still , he took caution with each step .
there were many things he had to watch for .
snakes for one on the ground and in the trees .
snakes could be anywhere !
another thing was spiders .
again , they could be anywhere !
they were really worse than the snakes .
a spider could be on him and he would never know it until after he was bitten unless he was extremely lucky , that is .
so , caution was the word as he made his way slowly and carefully through the guatemalan jungle .
he glanced at his watch and saw that it was now 4 26 a.m .
he hoped to be in position by no later than six oclock .
time seemed to drag by for him as he made his way carefully step , by cautious step , through the jungle .
even with the nvgs night vision goggles , it was difficult to move fast .
he was virtually blind at his feet , so had to remember what he had seen in the distance and where it was in relation to then and now .
still , he moved slowly toward his final destination .
after what seemed like hours of moving through the green and white landscape , he thought the batteries on the nvgs were finally going dead .
he stopped and removed them to replace the batteries and go on .
he realized he could see better without them .
so he hung them on his belt and removed his gps device and map .
he squatted in place and began to compare the two .
after several minutes comparison , according to them , he should be dead center in the middle of the camp .
he looked at his watch .
it read 6 00 a.m .
he had to be close .
he stayed squatted , waiting for a human sound to lead him the rest of the way .
it wasnt long in coming , but it didnt come from the direction he had expected .
it came from the direction he had just come from , but to his left several feet .
he carefully retraced his steps , listening intently .
around thirty yards back and thirty feet to his right was a large flat clearing .
makeshift structures were scattered around it helter skelter .
the rebel camp was beginning to come to life .
he low crawled on his stomach and elbows to the edge of the jungle for a better look .
he saw right off it was going to be difficult to watch and study the whole camp from any one position .
there were just too many blind spots .
after a while , satisfied that he had seen everything he could from his position , he moved to his right nearly a hundred yards , lay and studied .
then a short while later , he moved again .
he continued until he had surrounded the whole camp and studied it from every angle .
around noon , and only halfway around the camp , he saw a man carrying what he thought was two plates of food .
he watched the man closely as he opened the door of the shed and placed the plates inside , then closed and locked the door by placing a bamboo pole across it .
as he turned to leave an armed guard came around a corner of the shed .
the two men stood talking for a few minutes , and then the delivery boy left .
the guard continued on his circuit around the shed .
tommy smiled .
he had found what he hoped was the hostages .
now he had to plan an escape route for them .
he couldnt go through the camp at night unless he was extremely lucky .
and he didnt feel that lucky .
so he had to get into the jungle at its closest point to the shed , and then go from there .
he glanced at his wristwatch .
captain stamper should have left belize two hours ago , headed for brownsville , texas .
from there he would fly a blackhawk helicopter to an awaiting aircraft carrier on maneuvers in the gulf of mexico .
once there , he would wait for tommys signal , then head for the pickup point five miles from the camp .
if all went well , he would be there waiting for their arrival , rotors spinning , when tommy and the two hostages arrived .
hopefully , unpursued and uninjured .
tommy lay watching the inactivity around the camp .
he thought they were certainly a lazy bunch .
but , then again , they had a million dollars from jenkins petroleum to lounge around on .
and they were expecting another hundred million more in the next two weeks .
with that kind of money , why not take a day off from time to time , tommy smiled .
the day wore slowly on .
the heat became oppressive .
sweat ran into his eyes and soaked his clothes .
there was no hint of a breeze in the jungle .
between him and the shed , heat waves shimmered and danced .
everything became blurred as the afternoon heat began to beat down upon him .
it felt like a heavy weight as he lay sweltering inside it .
he longed for night .
nothing dared move in the heat for fear of a heat stroke .
even the insects that had tortured him unmercifully had enough sense to seek shelter from the relentless attack of the tropical sun .
tommy stared through bloodshot eyes at the shimmering , dancing waves that seemed to be losing their energy .
he blinked the sweat from his eyes and thought he saw movement through the slow motion heat waves .
his eyes snapped wide open and he stared at the wavering shadow as it neared the shed .
once again the man carried two plates of what was obviously food .
he unlocked and opened the door , handed the plates inside , said a few words and then closed the door and locked it again .
just as had happened earlier , as the man turned away from the door , the guard came around the corner .
tommy had not seen the guard since early that morning .
the two men exchanged a few words then parted .
the guard continued around the shed to complete his circuit .
tommy could think of only two possible explanations for the guards unusual behavior , one .
he was sitting at the side of the shack in the shade , talking to the hostages through the wall .
or two , he had a makeshift lean to on the side of the building that provided enough shade to be comfortable .
occasionally , he would peek through a crack in the wall to insure his hostages were still inside and safe .
whatever it was , tommy hoped he was enjoying his last day on planet earth .
the intense green of the jungle began to turn gray .
it slowly faded to blue , then finally to dirty gray again .
it was as if that had been the tensely awaited signal for life to begin in the jungle .
it seemed as if someone was steadily increasing the volume until the sound was a deafening roar .
tommy noticed there was steadily more activity around and in the camp .
thats when it hit him , these people slept through the heat of the day and the relative silence .
now they were up because it was cooling off but noisy as hell and sleep was impossible for anyone except the stone deaf .
this called for a change of plans .
it was murphys law in action !
there was no way he could get through to the shed with all the activity and people around .
he would have to do it in broad daylight when most everyone was asleep .
he hoped .
fires began to spring up around the camp .
lights began to come on .
music began to play .
people began to make merry .
children ran around in groups playing games in the dark .
adults began to shout and talk loud as the volume of the night increased around them .
the jungle was at full volume and raising hell .
the smell of cooking food wafted on the evening air reminding tommy that he had eaten nothing since the night before .
he broke out a mre and feasted as he watched the activity of the life of a jungle rebel camp .
he noticed that very few of the people were armed .
sometime after eating the mre he drifted into a fitful sleep .
dreams of being taken prisoner in iraq began to haunt his dreams .
then the dream of being shot in the chest by cramer pushing lindsey aside and taking the bullet himself .
as the projectile impacted his chest like the kick of a mule , he started and woke up suddenly , eyes wide and looking around as if expecting enemies from any and all directions .
he sweated profusely .
between him and the shed , heat waves shimmered and danced once again in erratic patterns .
the camp was as silent as a cemetery .
it baked in the midday sun , as if in an oven , like he did .
it was sweltering !
tommy couldnt see anything clearly .
if he couldnt , he reasoned , neither could they .
therefore , it was time to make his move .
and he was ready to go home !
first , he had to eliminate the guard at the side of the shed .
then unbar the door , get the hostages and drag them into the jungle if he had to .
he began to crawl slowly toward the shed , weapon across his arms , but ready for instant action if necessary .
he didnt want to fire a shot that would more than likely bring the camp to a boiling caldron of life around his ears .
if that happened , he and his hostages would be history in seconds .
his plan all along had been to get in , get the hostages , then get out without the captors being any the wiser .
if he was unable to do that , for whatever reason , he would have no choice but to fight his way out for as long as he could .
ten feet from the front door of the shed , he stood up .
he stepped to the side of the shed and began to sidle his way along the side slowly .
he peeked around the side of the shed in the direction the guard always came from .
on the side was an open sided lean to .
under the lean to was a lazy boy recliner , in the recliner the guard lay sleeping peacefully .
around his right arm was an electric cord .
it ran from his arm to the side of the shed , then down the side and around the corner to the door , when the door was opened an electronic breaker was closed sending a mild electric current through the cord and into the guards body , waking him instantly .
satisfied that he knew the security system , he withdrew the ten inch gerber survival knife from its scabbard and slowly approached the sleeping guard .
he stood beside the chair looking down at the sleeping man .
without hesitation , he clamped his left palm over the mans mouth and nose and , as his eyes flashed open in terror , he plunged the ten inch blade into the mans heart .
the man looked up at tommy in wonder , then slowly closed his eyes and relaxed into the arms of death .
tommy placed his knee on the dead mans stilled chest and , with effort , withdrew the ten inch blade .
he cleaned the blood from the blade on the mans shirt , then turned and retraced his steps around the front of the shed .
he placed the bamboo pole to one side and eased the door open .
two men in their early twenties sat cross legged on a pallet staring up at him .
are you adam jenkins , junior ?
tommy asked the youngest looking man .
i am , yes , the young man answered .
im here to take you home if you want to go .
hell yes !
the men answered in unison , as they jumped to their feet and came to the door .
when they were out tommy replaced the pole across the door .
then , turned and led the two men into the jungle as quickly as he could .
once he had them a safe distance away from the clearing he turned and looked at them earnestly .
im tommy lesade .
i was sent by your father to bring you home .
we have a five mile run ahead of us .
so we wont have time to stop and chat about old times .
the rebels may notice youre missing any minute .
it may be hours , too .
so , we take no chances .
i will lead .
you will follow .
you will keep up or die trying .
look where youre going and look where youre stepping .
when you can go no farther call out , well take a few minutes break .
you ready ?
tommy asked , quickly and quietly .
they werent rebels .
just farmers , adam said softly .
whatever .
they were kidnappers and holding you for ransom .
we dont have time to debate the finer points now , lets go , tommy finished , then turned and took off through the jungle at a slow run .
step where i step , he said over his shoulder as he activated the signal on his radio .
the close heavy air and the intense heat of the jungle soon had the two young men breathing heavy and sweating profusely .
tommy didnt breathe heavy at all , but , like them , was sweating gallons .
he opened his back pack and withdrew three bottles of water .
he passed each of the men one .
they drank in silence .
drink it all , he said , shoving his bottle back into his pack .
when they finished he stuffed their empty bottle into his pack , then turned and began running through the jungle once again .
he turned and ran backwards , then seeing they were right with him , he turned and ran on .
he checked his compass and gps screen and , seeing he was dead on course , set a ground covering pace .
he wanted them to get as much distance between themselves and the camp before one of them gave out .
after three miles or so , tommy stopped and turned to them .
how you doin ?
he asked , still not breathing hard .
fine , they both answered breathlessly .
ready to go the last two ?
he asked with a smile .
secretly , he was very proud of them .
sure , they answered in unison .
tommy nodded , then turned and took off at the same ground covering pace .
fifteen minutes later he heard the slap and thud of a helicopter rotor in the distance .
he smiled inwardly that he had led them straight home to the chopper .
captain stamper waved from the cockpit as the three men broke from the jungle and into the clearing .
they waved back and came at a run toward the opened cargo door .
a crew member had opened the door in preparation of their arrival .
he then assisted them inside , climbed in after them and closed and secured the door .
the three sat looking at each other as the blackhawk rose swiftly from the clearing , nose down as it pivoted and began to streak into the clear blue sky .
they all started laughing and talking at once , with high fives all around .
chapter 14 during the long flight to brownsville , the three talked nonstop .
tommy learned a lot about the so called rebels from adam junior .
they were not really rebels as such mostly farmer gatherers , goat herders .
they harvested fruits and nuts from the surrounding jungle and cut bananas when they could find a good tree .
they harvested honey from wild bees and basically survived in a way of life they had enjoyed for countless centuries .
several times a year , they went to the coast , nearly a hundred miles away , and feasted on seafood .
all told , they were mostly harmless .
mostly it was my fault we were held hostage , adam admitted .
i told them my father was very wealthy and would pay a ransom to get me back alive and unharmed .
i thought that would help the village forever .
the cost of living is basically nothing there .
plus , my father has billions , so why not help the people i enjoyed living with ?
then , marty here , shows up with a briefcase full of cash and everything changed .
the patron of the village decided that if dad would pay a million to get his only son back , then he would pay a hundred times that amount just as fast .
any father would do the same thing to protect his son , right ?
in this case , the patron was correct , in a sense .
so , he took us both to the shed and locked us up under guard .
if you could call ramone a guard .
he was really just a teenager in his head .
slight retardation , i suspect .
he wouldnt harm a fly and the patron gave explicit orders that we were not to be harmed in any way .
we were , after all , his golden goose , so we were protected and cared for .
we received plenty of food and water and were never mistreated .
we just couldnt leave .
they didnt even talk bad to us , or threaten us .
we were part of the village .
the patron sent word to dad of the change in ransom , and then we waited .
they would never have hurt us .
it wasnt in their nature .
they were just farmers .
peaceful farmers .
they would never have thought of this had it not been for me .
they were happy with their lot in life , even if dad never sent the money .
it was mostly a game to them .
just to see if i was right .
hell , they got no place to spend hundreds of dollars , much less millions !
looks like they underestimated dads resolve .
he sent you instead , and here we are .
tommy listened closely to everything adam said .
he regretted killing the guard .
if he was as peaceful and simple as adam suggested , he would have run in terror at the sight of tommy in his camo paint and tiger stripes .
yet , they had to have known they were playing a dangerous game with the big boys .
and when one chooses to play with the big boys , one is subject to get hurt .
seriously !
he even learned a lot about adam senior .
for instance , he was on his fourth wife adam jrs third stepmother in ten years .
he was known to abuse her on a regular basis , and to threaten her life if she attempted to leave or divorce him .
he kept her confined to their mansion in tulsa while he played the man about town and had affairs as if it were his right .
he had even been known to dip below the legal age limit from time to time , then pay off the parents to keep them and the crime quiet .
he was bi sexual and had no qualms about using underage boys .
the younger the better , as far as he was concerned , he just paid off when necessary .
money , he claimed , was his passport to freedom freedom to do whatever he wanted to , whenever he chose to do it .
he didnt care who he hurt in the process , as long as he got what he wanted .
adam jr. claimed that adam sr. was responsible for the deaths of several children under the age of twelve .
he was reputedly well endowed in more ways than money .
all in all , according to adam jr. , adam sr. was a menace to society , but had too much money to be stopped , short of being terminated for the good of humanity .
what if he didnt have all that money ?
tommy queried innocently .
he would commit suicide !
adam laughed seriously .
but , there is no chance of him going broke in this millennium !
hes invested in too many major corporations around the world .